Google 


This  is  a  digital  copy  of  a  book  that  was  preserved  for  generations  on  library  shelves  before  it  was  carefully  scanned  by  Google  as  part  of  a  project 

to  make  the  world's  books  discoverable  online. 

It  has  survived  long  enough  for  the  copyright  to  expire  and  the  book  to  enter  the  public  domain.  A  public  domain  book  is  one  that  was  never  subject 

to  copyright  or  whose  legal  copyright  term  has  expired.  Whether  a  book  is  in  the  public  domain  may  vary  country  to  country.  Public  domain  books 

are  our  gateways  to  the  past,  representing  a  wealth  of  history,  culture  and  knowledge  that's  often  difficult  to  discover. 

Marks,  notations  and  other  maiginalia  present  in  the  original  volume  will  appear  in  this  file  -  a  reminder  of  this  book's  long  journey  from  the 

publisher  to  a  library  and  finally  to  you. 

Usage  guidelines 

Google  is  proud  to  partner  with  libraries  to  digitize  public  domain  materials  and  make  them  widely  accessible.  Public  domain  books  belong  to  the 
public  and  we  are  merely  their  custodians.  Nevertheless,  this  work  is  expensive,  so  in  order  to  keep  providing  tliis  resource,  we  liave  taken  steps  to 
prevent  abuse  by  commercial  parties,  including  placing  technical  restrictions  on  automated  querying. 
We  also  ask  that  you: 

+  Make  non-commercial  use  of  the  files  We  designed  Google  Book  Search  for  use  by  individuals,  and  we  request  that  you  use  these  files  for 
personal,  non-commercial  purposes. 

+  Refrain  fivm  automated  querying  Do  not  send  automated  queries  of  any  sort  to  Google's  system:  If  you  are  conducting  research  on  machine 
translation,  optical  character  recognition  or  other  areas  where  access  to  a  large  amount  of  text  is  helpful,  please  contact  us.  We  encourage  the 
use  of  public  domain  materials  for  these  purposes  and  may  be  able  to  help. 

+  Maintain  attributionTht  GoogXt  "watermark"  you  see  on  each  file  is  essential  for  in  forming  people  about  this  project  and  helping  them  find 
additional  materials  through  Google  Book  Search.  Please  do  not  remove  it. 

+  Keep  it  legal  Whatever  your  use,  remember  that  you  are  responsible  for  ensuring  that  what  you  are  doing  is  legal.  Do  not  assume  that  just 
because  we  believe  a  book  is  in  the  public  domain  for  users  in  the  United  States,  that  the  work  is  also  in  the  public  domain  for  users  in  other 
countries.  Whether  a  book  is  still  in  copyright  varies  from  country  to  country,  and  we  can't  offer  guidance  on  whether  any  specific  use  of 
any  specific  book  is  allowed.  Please  do  not  assume  that  a  book's  appearance  in  Google  Book  Search  means  it  can  be  used  in  any  manner 
anywhere  in  the  world.  Copyright  infringement  liabili^  can  be  quite  severe. 

About  Google  Book  Search 

Google's  mission  is  to  organize  the  world's  information  and  to  make  it  universally  accessible  and  useful.   Google  Book  Search  helps  readers 
discover  the  world's  books  while  helping  authors  and  publishers  reach  new  audiences.  You  can  search  through  the  full  text  of  this  book  on  the  web 

at|http: //books  .google  .com/I 


Tic  ^ito  .  b'.jj  (•■■I-) 


P 


IRADCUFFE  COLLEGE  UBRARY( 

WOMEN'S  ARCHIVES 

Transferred  from 

HARVARD  COLLEGE  LIBRARY 

1960 


A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 


VOL.  I. 


.•''■ 


I 


o 


A  BOOK  AEOUT  THE  TABLE. 


BY 


JOHN  CORDY  JEAFPRBSON, 

AUTHOR     OF 

"  A  BOOK  ABOUT  DOCTOBS,"  "  A  BOOK  ABOUT  LAWTEBS," 

"  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  CLERGY." 


IN  TWO  VOLUMES. 
VOL  L 


i$tt0n)r  (B'iiiM. 


LONDON: 
HURST  AND  BLAOKETT,  PUBLISHERS, 

13,  QBEAT  MABLBOBOVOH  SIBEET, 

1875. 


f  The  JIUgkl  (f  TrmmtaHon  is  reserved. 

I 


Harvard  College  Library 
MAY  27  1911 

Gratia. 


j'" 

Q  vj     J 


London :  Printed  by  A.  Schalze,  IS,  Poland  Street. 


J43 


f 


CONTENTS 


OP 


THE    FIRST    VOLUME. 


» 

CHAP1TK. 

FAGB. 

I. 

Graok  at  Meals 

1 

!                 "• 

Britons  at  Tabt.f.    . 

21 

III. 

Antique  Feasting    . 

.      36 

IV. 

Apician  Precepts 

.      45 

V. 

ThK  FORBdE  OF  CURY 

63 

VI. 

ft* 

Culinary  Colourists 

.      87 

[           vn. 

Death  in  the  Pot,  and  Dish-Co  vers 

.    105 

VITT. 

MEDLffiYAL  Menus     . 

.    130 

IX. 

Warners   and   Subtleties,    Ancient 

AND 

Modern    .... 

.    145 

X. 

Carving  and  Carvers 

.    158 

XL 

Forks  and  Napery  . 

.     186 

XII. 

Horn,  Bell,  and  Gong 

.    211 

XIII. 

Manners:  and  the  Want  of  Them 

.    233 

XIV. 

Spits  and  Jacks 

.    242 

XV. 

Cruelties  and  Curiosities  . 

.    260 

XVI. 

Numbers  at  Table  . 

.    274 

XVII. 

Soup  ..... 

.    307 

A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 


p^fc* ' 


CHAPTER  L 


GEACE  AT  MEALS. 


"  The  custom  of  saying  grace  at  meals  had,  probably,  its  origin  in 
the  early  times  of  the  world,  and  the  hunter-state  of  man,  when  din- 
ners were  precarious  things,  and  a  full  meal  was  something  more  than 
a  common  blessing ;  when  a  belly-full  was  a  windfall,  and  looked  like 
a  special  providence.  In  the  shouts  and  triumphant  songs  with 
which,  after  a  season  of  sharp  abstinence,  a  lucky  booty  of  deer's 
or  goat's  flesh  would  naturally  be  ushered  home,  existed,  perhaps, 
the  germ  of  the  modem  grace."— Tide  Elia's  Essay  on  **  Geace 
BEPOEB  Meat." 

HAD  the  late  Sir  Robert  Peel  been  induced 
to  make  a  speech  on  thanksgivings  before 
and  after  meat,  he  would  not  have  failed  to 
observe  that  the  subject  divided  itself  under  three 
heads.  Having  declared  his  approval  of  the  pious 
usage  which  in  every  Christian  household  daily 
renders  thanks  for  daily  bread  to  the  Bestower 
of  it,  he  would  have  spoken  of  the  occasions  for 
such  gratitude,  of  the  forms  which  most  aptly 
express  the  proper  sentiment,  and  of  the  persons 
by    whom    those   forms   should  be  uttered.     The 

VOL.    I.  B 


Z  A   BOOK   ABOUT  THE   TABLE. 

statesman's  favourite  mode  of  discussing  topics 
shall  be  adopted  in  this  opening  chapter  of  a 
work  which,  like  its  precursors  in  a  series  of 
anecdotical  histories,  attempts  to  illustrate  a  portion 
of  the  domestic  life  of  our  forefathers. 

Though  his  fine  humour  caused  him  to  write 
lightly  of  festal  thanksgivings,  Charles  Lamb's 
good  sense  forbade  him  to  denounce  the  practice 
which,  with  considerations  greatly  impressive  to 
ordinary  men,  reminds  us  at  least  once  a  day 
of  our  dependence  on  the  divine  bounty.  "  Theore- 
tically "  the  essayist  was  no  "  enemy  to  graces ;" 
but  .he  had  winced  under  the  embarrassments 
that  are  apt  to  arise  from  their  unseasonable  or 
indiscreet  performance.  He  had  been  stirred  to 
ridicule  or  indignation  by  incongruities  that  are 
always  apparent  when  men,  acutely  and  osten- 
tatiously eager  for  sensual  enjoyment,  thank 
God  in  nicely  chosen  terms  for  His  goodness  in 
afibrding  them  the  opportunity  and  means  for 
gluttonous  excess.  He  even  thought  that  the 
usage,  which  he  hesitated  to  condemn,  assigned 
too  much  importance  to  carnal  satisfaction,  and 
might  be  advantageously  replaced  by  a  practice 
that  would  select  the  higher  pleasures  for  occasions 
of  special  thanksgiving.  To  prosperous  men, 
secure  of  daily  luxuries  as  well  as  daily  bread, 
a  good  dinner,  the   cheapest   of  all   the  material 


GRACE   BEFORE    SHAKESPEARE.  3 

comforts  daily  lavished  upon  them  by  fortune, 
was  too  mean  a  thing  for  extraordinary  grati- 
tude. 

There  were  a  score  of  felicities  which  Elia 
thought  more  worthy  of  exceptional  recognition 
than  the  delights  of  eating  and  drinking.  The 
pleasant  walk  and  friendly  meeting  were  as  fruitful 
of  gladness  as  the  juicy  steak  or  plate  of  fat, 
tender  oysters.  Elia  wanted  thanksgivings  for 
spiritual  repasts,  a  grace  before  Shakespeare, 
another  for  utterance  before  a  reading  of  Milton, 
a  third  in  acknowledgment  of  the  joy  caused  by 
a  perusal  of  the  "  Fairy  Queen."  Had  he  delighted 
in  the  opera  as  much  as  the  "legitimate  drama," 
he  would  have  suggested  that  concerts  of  purely 
secular  music  should  open  with  devotional 
exercise. 

It  needs  no  unusual  sagacity  and  power  of 
reasoning  to  dispose  of  the  humourist's  objections 
to  a  practice  which  is  chiefly  commendable  because 
it  fosters  in  mankind  a  universal  habit  of  gratitude 
to  the  one  Giver  of  all  blessings.  The  enjoyments 
which  Elia  preferred  to  the  vulgar  pleasures  of 
the  table  are  exceptional.  Under  any  circum- 
stances they  must  be  of  irregular  recurrence, 
and  concern  only  a  few  of  the  human  race.  Not 
one  man  in  a  thousand  derives  vivid  gratification 
from  literature ;  and  it  is  not  often  that  we,  who 

B  2 


4  A  BOOK  ABOTIT  THE  TABLE. 

are  readers,  come  upon  a  new  book  the  excellences 
of  whicli  dispose  the  most  ttankful  and  devout 
of  us  to  say  grace  for  its  publication.  Nor  do  we 
care  to  read  Shakespeare  and  Milton  every  day  of 
our  lives.  Music  will  never  be  a  universal 
delight ;  and  the  average  toiler  of  East  London 
will  experience  no  sensible  diminution  of  happiness 
when  Sir  Richard  Wallace  moves  his  artistic 
treasures  from  Bethnal  Green  to  private  galleries. 
The  higher  enjoyments  are  for  the  higher 
natures.  But  men  of  lofty  soul  and  subtlest 
powers  resemble  folk  of  inferior  quality  is 
needing  and  relishing  daily  bread. 

The  pleasure  is  not  more  universal  than  the  ne- 
cessity   of  eating.      Men   may   live  to   eat.     They 
must  eat  to  live.    This  fact  is  obvious  alike  to  the 
png  who  thinks  it  unphilosophic,  and  to  the  ascetic 
who  deems  it  einfulj  to  enjoy  a  good  dinner.    Food 
is  the  foundation  of  all  human  felicity.     Though  its 
immediate  pleasures  are  inferior  to   several  enjoy- 
ments,   it   is    the   root   of  all  mundane  blessings. 
With  it,  all  the  finer  joys  are,  under  favourable  con- 
ditions, attainable.    Without  it,  all  enjoyment  ceases. 
Elia,    deprived  of  food,    would  soon  have  lost  all 
'  moonlight  . 
etings,"  all 
he  relished 
new  forms 


OETGIN  OF   GBACES. 


of  grace,  was  due  to  those  grosser  aliments  for 
which  he  was  half-ashamed  to  say  "  Thank  God." 
Though  deep  enough  for  the  humourist's  purposes 
his  view  of 'the  whole  question  was  *  superficial. 
Nor  can  much  be  said  for  the  historical  suggestion 
at  the  opening  of  his  paper.  It  is  far  more 
probable  that  the  custom  of  saying  grace  at  meals 
originated  in  an  intelligent  recognition  of  the 
universal  importance  of  food,  as  the  foundation 
and  source  of  earthly  well-being,  than  that  it  had 
its  birth  in  the  clamorous  exultation  of  tribes  of 
savages  hastening  to  satisfy  their  wolfish  hunger 
with  long-desired  flesh  of  deer  and  goats.  Charles 
Lamb,  usually  so  wise  with  his  wit  and  drollery, 
was  guilty  of  nonsense  when,  after  stating  his 
theory  of  the  origin  of  graces,  he  wrote  gravely, 
"  It  is  not  otherwise  easy  to  be  understood  why  the 
blessing  of  food — ^the  act  of  eating — should  have 
had  a  particular  expression  of  thanksgiving  an- 
nexed to  it,  distinct  from  that  implied  and  silent 
gratitude  with  which  we  are  expected  to  enter  upon 
the  enjoyment  of  the  many  other  various  and  good 
things  of  existence." 

No  doubt,  the  sense  of  thankfulness  for  blessings 
is  weakened  in  some  natures — perhaps  in  the 
majority  of  common  natures — by  the  sense  of 
secure  possession.  We  are  all  too  prone  to  regard 
as  matters  of  course,    and  therefore  as  no  affairs 


6  A   BOOK  ABOUT  THE   TABLE. 

for  special  gratitude,  the  comforts  which  come  to 
us  regularly,  without  forethought,  or  toil,  or 
anxiety  on  our  part.  The  greater  the  need  for 
gracious  forms  to  remind  us  that  the  familiar 
bounties  are  great  bounties.  And  what  though 
the  prosperous,  secure  of  their  six  courses  and 
dessert  after  the  daily  ringing  of  the  dinner-bell, 
are  incapable  of  such  gratitude  for  a  good  meal 
as  is  felt  by  men  whose  means  of  living  are 
precarious  ?  How  can  the  exceptional  lot  of  these 
favourites  of  fortune  discredit  the  universal  practice, 
which  was  instituted  for  the  edification  of  the  many 
who  live  on  herbs,  as  well  as  of  the  few  who  do 
their  pleasure  with  stalled  oxen  ? 

The  rich  men,  at  whose  tables  Elia  sometimes  sat 
a  rams  Jiospesy  could  be  counted  by  tens,  whilst  their 
poor  neighbours,  to  each  of  whom  a  savoury  dinner 
was  a  windfall,  numbered  thousands.  And  who  holds 
his  prosperity  by  so  sure  a  tenure  that  no  enemy 
can  wrest  it  from  him  ?  The  very  conditions  of 
civilized  life,  which,  under  ordinary  circumstances, 
give  us  the  advantage  over  savages,  may  become 
instruments  for  reducing  us  to  famine.  The  Prus- 
sians march  on  Paris;  and  ere  six  months  have 
passed,  the  besieged  multitude  grow  lean  and  gaunt 
from  hunger,  and  luxurious  epicures,  to  whom 
hippophagy  had  been  a  mere  jest  or  curious  subject 
of   speculation,   are  glad  to   fill  themselves  with 


THE   POWER  TO   ENJOY.  7 

sawdust  and  vermin.  Moreover,  grace  for  meat  is 
not  limited  to  the  material  "  creatures "  of  the 
abundant  board,  which  in  seasons  of  peace  and 
plenty  are  easily  attainable.  It  covers  the  power 
to  enjoy,  as  well  as  the  substantial  means  of  enjoy- 
ment.. There  is  no  feast  to  be  thankful  for  in  the 
absence  of  desire  for  food,  or. if  good  digestion 
fails  to  wait  on  appetite.  And  who  can  say  how 
long  he  may  retain  the  physical  conditions,  which 
are  no  less  needful  than  sufficient  dishes,  for  the 
enjoyment  of  our  daily  bread  ?  Regarded  as  the  chief 
and  type  of  all  material  comforts,  food  will  continue 
to  be  the  subject  and  occasion  for  universal  thank- 
fulness. Wits  may  be  smart  against  the  grateful 
usage,  but  simple  men  will  not  depart  from  their 
old  way  at  the  order  of  flippancy.  And  even 
though  the  custom  of  saying  them  audibly  should 
pass  from  us,  grace  at  meals  will  rise  silently  from 
thankful  hearts. 

Unanimous  in  their  gratitude  for  meat,  our 
people  differ  in  opinion  as  to  the  occasions  for  ex- 
pressing  it.  Some  think  it  enough  to  be  audibly 
thankful  for  dinner,  and  acknowledge  the  bless- 
ing of  breakfast  silently.  Others  are  vocally 
grateful  for  every  meal  to  which  they  "  sit  down." 
Country  folk  are,  upon  the  whole,  more  eloquent 
of  thanks  for  daily  bread  than  Londoners;  and 
in  the  country  your  most  copious  sayers  of  grace 


8  A   BOOK  ABOUT   THE   TABLE, 

must  be  sought  amongst  Nonconformists,  or  in 
serious  coteries  with  a  strong  sympathy  for  dissent. 
I  know  of  pleasant  households  amongst  those  sober 
kinds  of  rural  folk,  where  "  high  tea  "  is  preluded 
with  offering  of  thanks  as  ceremoniously  as  din- 
ner or  supper.  But  the  severest  precisian  of  my 
acquaintance  will  partake  of  such  flying  refreshment 
as  "a  glass  of  sherry  and  a  biscuit"  without  a 
special  entreaty  that  it  may  be  blessed  to  his  use. 
All  the  "  sects  "  and  "  sets "  concur  in  holding 
that  mere  "  snacks  "  and  "  stirrup-cups  "  should  be 
taken  without  formal  thanks  to  the  Great  Giver.  In 
our  Catholic  time,  the  Church  prescribed  grace  before 
and  after  the  two  chief  meals  of  the  day,  a  rul6 
which  the  popular  sentiment  of  a  later  period  com- 
mended in  the  adage. 


.   "  Grace  for  supper,  and  grace  for  dinner, 

Or  you'll  justly  be  thought  a  graceless  sinner. 


» 


At  the  modern  dinner,  which  corresponds  to  the 
supper  of  our  forefathers,  one  half  of  this  order  is 
observed  even  in  the  lightest  circles  of  worldly 
society.  But  in  many  households  that  are  not 
chargeable  with  irreverence,  grace  has  fallen  into 
disuse  at  lunch  (the  dinner  of  olden  time),  unless 
children  are  present  at  it,  when,  as  the  dinner  of  the 
youngsters,  it  becomes  an  occasion  for  utterance  of 
thanks. 


VABIOUS   FORMS.  9 

Of  forms  of  grace  it  may  be  asserted  that  those 
are  most  acceptable  to  taste  and  judgment  which 
are  chiefly  remarkable  for  briefness  and  simplicity 
of  diction.  A  grace  should  only  suggest  the  dis- 
position appropriate  to  a  receiver  of  benefits, 
Neither  a  homily  nor  a  prayer,  it  should  touch  the 
note  of  thankfulness,  and  forbear  to  repeat  it.  Ad- 
dressing the  heart  rather  than  the  mind,  it  should 
not  explain  itself,  or  justify  itself  by  argument.  The 
church,  the  chapel,  and  the  private  closet  are  the 
proper  scenes  for  fuller  utterances  of  gratitude.  In 
the  dining-room  it  is  enough  to  say,  "  Thanks  to 
God  for  all  his  blessings." 

Not  much  can  be  said  in  commendation  of  the 
wordy  and  elaborate  Latin  graces  which  have  come 
to  us  from  mediasval  churchmen,  and  may  still  be 
heard  in  the  halls  of  ancient  colleges.  They  have 
a  pleasant  savour  of  antiquity.  They  remind  the 
hearer  of  the  scholastic  pedantries  that  prevailed 
amongst  the  learned  at  the  dates  of  their  composi- 
tion. To  men,  who  learnt  and  chanted  them  in 
their  boyhood,  they  may  have  agreeable  associations 
and  be  fruitful  of  sweet  memories;  but  for  the 
purpose  which  their  composers  may  be  supposed 
to  have  had  in  view,  they  are  inefiectual.  Re- 
garded as  academic  exercises  or  ecclesiastical  offices, 
they  may  be  meritorious;  but  they  fail  to  stir 
the  chords  which  a  grace  should  touch  lightly,  and 


10  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

only  for  a  moment.  Thanks  should  be  cordial  and 
spontaneous;  whereas  these  antique  arrangements 
of  nicely  considered  praise,  with  their  several  parts 
for  priest  and  respondents,  are  ostentatiously  artifi- 
cial. Save  that  they  are  shorter  and  more  intelli- 
gible, the  several  graces  in  the  vulgar  tongue, 
which  have  descended  to  us  from  the  Reformation 
Period,  are  in  no  way  preferable  to  the  academic 
thanksgivings.  Sermons  in  miniature,  some  of 
them  say  too  much.  Others  have  a  supplicatory 
character,  and  might  be  mistaken  for  collects  re- 
jected by  the  compilers  of  the  Common  Prayer.  A 
few  of  them  are  really  wonderful  specimens  of 
compressed  thought;  but  all  are  more  or  less 
frigid,  angular,  and  conventional — none  are  simple 
thanks. 

Even  more  objectionable,  for  their  artificiality 
and  tediousness,  are  the  musical  graces  which  have 
in  these  later  years  become  fashionable  at  public 
dinners.  One  seeks  in  vain  for  a  reason  why 
people,  when  they  feast  together  in  large  numbers, 
should  thank  God  for  meat  and  drink  by  a  process 
which  none  of  them  would  think  of  using  at  a 
familiar  board.  Intelligible  only  to  the  musical, 
these  operatic  thanksgivings  are  positive  inflictions 
to  ordinary  hearers;  whilst  they  are  little  better 
than  "  fantastic"  impertinences  to  the  expert  in 
melody   when  he  is   sincerely  moved  to  gratitude 


WHO   SHALL   SAY   IT?  11 

for  an  abundant  meal.  No  composer  or  vocalist 
ever  chants  his  thanks  for  a  beef-steak  pudding  in 
his  private  parlour. 

Rather  than  these  harmonious  performances, 
which  put  the  words  of  praise  out  of  hearing, 
I  would  have  the  silent  grace  of  the  Quakers 
and  the  military  messes.  No  form  at  all  is  better 
than  one  which  robs  a  pious  practice  of  its  sincerity 
and  earnestness. 

And  who  is  the  fittest  person  to  utter  the  simple 
grace  which  should  prelude  every  ceremonious  re- 
past ?  The  question  is  no  new  one.  "  In  houses," 
says  Charles  Lamb,  "where  the  grace  is  as  in- 
dispensable as  the  napkin,  who  has  not  seen  that 
never  settled  question  as  to  who  shall  say  it  ?  while 
the  good  man  of  the  house  and  the  visitor  clergy- 
man, or  some  other  guest,  belike  of  next  authority 
from  years  or  gravity,  shall  be  bandying  about  the 
office  between  them  as  a  matter  of  compliment, 
each  not  unwilling  to  shift  the  burden  of  an  equivo- 
cal duty  from  his  own  shoulders." 

In  the  days  of  our  grandfathers,  it  was  generally 
understood,  that  V  respect  for  the  cloth"  required 
the  lay  host  to  assign  the  duty  to  the  principal 
ecclesiastic  at  his  table.  In  the  absence  of  clergy, 
the  entertainer  might  himself  "  ask  the  blessing." 
But  for  him  to  utter  it  in  the  presence  of  sacred 
clerk  or  minister,   was  to  "  pass   over"  the  holy 


12  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

man  and  commit  an  irreverence.     Importuned  for 
a  grace,  Elia's  friend,  C.  V.  L.,  used  to  say  signifi- 
cantly "  Thank  God,"  when  he  had  first  inquired, 
^  "  Is  there  no  clergyman  at  table  ?" 

This  moribund,  but  not  quite  obsolete,  fashion  of 
asking  the  clergyman  to  say  grace,  had  its  origin 
in  times  when  every  important  household  had  a 
clerical  oflScer,  and  when  the  ceremonious  graces 
of  great  tables  were  in  a  tongue  that  required  a 
scholarly  utterer.  Composed  in  the  religious  houses, 
for  use  in  monastic  halls  and  collegiate  refectories, 
the  old  Latin  graces  were  carried  from  the  cloisters 
to  the  castles,  whose  seigniors  were  too  proud  to 
thank  the  Almighty  for  His  blessings,  except  by 
deputy.  Thus  introduced  to  secular  life,  the  Latin 
graces  passed  from  courts  to  the  homes  of  courtiers, 
from  the  baron's  board  to  the  knight's  table,  and 
thence  to  the  tables  of  inferior  quality  who  de- 
lighted in  copying  the  ways  of  their  betters.  Muni- 
cipalities adopted  the  noble  fashion ;  and  merchants, 
in  their  houses,  were  pleased  to  preface  their  cere- 
monious suppers  with  the  graces  spoken  at  the 
banquets  of  their  guilds.  In  his  common  life, 
the  London  alderman  was  content  to  declare  his 
thankfulness  in  his  mother-tongue  ;  but  when  he 
invited  his  neighbours  to  feast  with  him,  on  his 
daughter's  marriage  or  his  son's  coming  of  age,  he 
invited  his  parish  priest,   or  the  chaplain  of  his 


DOMESTIC   CHAPLAINS.  '  13 

Company,  in  order  that  the  banquet  should  be 
hallowed  with  grace  of  a  grander  and  politer  sort. 
The  intervention  of  a  priest  was  necessary  for  the 
proper  rendering  of  some  of  the  more  elaborate 
Latin  graces,  with  their  parts  for  "  Sacerdos"  and 
their  "  responses." 

The  fashion,  which  thus  arose  in  our  Catholic 
time,  was  extended  in  the  sixteenth  and  seven- 
teenth centuries  by  the  successive  ecclesiastical 
convulsions  that  increased  the  number  of  the 
clergy,  who  were  glad  to  officiate  as  chaplains  in 
private  families.  In  times  when  every  well-to-do 
squire  entertained  some  ejected  priest  or  minister, 
it  was  unusual  for  a  gentle  family  to  sit  down  to 
meat  in  the  absence  of  a  reverend  personage,  whose 
principal  duties  under  his  patron's  roof  were  to 
read  prayers  daily  in  the  hall,  and  say  grace  at 
table.  Under  these  circumstances  it  concerned 
the  dignity  of  every  host,  who  affected  gentility, 
that  the  thanks  rendered  at  his  board  should  be 
spoken  by  one  of  the  cloth.  Vanity  joined  hands 
with  superstition ;  and  a  grand  repast  was  deemed 
an  imperfect  affair  if  no  clerk  proclaimed  its  eaters' 
gratitude. 

At  the  present  time,  there  is  a  growing  sentiment 
among  our  clergy  that  their  cloth  is  more  honoured 
by  the  breach  than  by  the  observance  of  this  old- 
world  fashion,  which  for  the  moment  converts  the 


14  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

clergyman  selected  for  the  office  into  his  host's 
domestic  chaplain.  Some  of  our  ecclesiastics  even 
refuse  to  support  the  falling  custom,  which  appears 
to  imply  that  the  thanksgivings  of  laity  are  not 
completely  acceptable  to  the  Creator  unless  they 
come  to  Him  through  priestly  lips.  There  are  also 
social  critics  who  urge  that  a  clergyman  is  the  one 
person  who  should  not  be  invited  to  the  office  of 
grace-sayer.  Graces,  it  is  urged,  besides  being 
simple,  should  be  uttered  with  simplicity.  The 
clerical  tone,  or  any  kind  of  conventional  serious- 
ness, is  fatal  to  their  effect  on  earthly  hearers.  It 
robs  them  of  the  naturalness  and  air  of  spontaneity 
which  should  characterize  such  declarations.  It 
emphasizes  the  formality  of  a  form  that  ought  to 
be  as  far  as  possible  devoid  of  ceremony.  And  it 
must  be  admitted  that  not  one  clergyman  in  a 
hundred  can  say  grace  without  reminding  his 
hearers  that  he  is  a  clergyman,  and  making  them 
feel  that  they  are  a  congregation  assembled  for 
religious  admonition,  rather  than  a  company 
gathered  together  for  social  enjoyment. 

Perhaps  the  simplest,  and  therefore  most  effec- 
tive, utterers  of  graces  at  table  are  well-mannered 
children.  No  company  can  desire  a  better  orator 
of  their  thanks  to  the  Almighty  than  a  pretty  little 
girl,  who,  doing  with  matter  of  fact  self-possession 
and  winning  gravity  what  she  does  daily  for  the 


THE    SOnOOLB   OP   VEETUB.  15 

familiar  good,  puts  her  hands  together  meekly  and 
speaks  the  grateful  words.  Small  boys  are  seldom 
such  felicitous  performers  of  grace  as  their  sisters. 
But  sometimes  they  discharge  the  thankful  duty 
with  nice  propriety.  And  there  is  good  authority 
for  recording  that  in  olden  time  little  fellows,  with 
neatly  combed  locks,  commonly  officiated  as  grace- 
clerks  at  their  parents'  tables. 

In  his  capital  "  booke  of  the  good  Nourture  for 
children,"  entitled  "  The  Schoole  of  Vertue,"  (a.d. 
1557),  Master  Seager  admonishes  the  youthful 
reader  thus, 

"  When  thy  parentes  downe  to  the  table  shall  syt. 
In  place  be  ready  for  the  purpose  most  fyt ; 
With  sober  conntenance,  lookynge  them  in  the  face. 
Thy  hands  holdynge  ap,  thus  begin  grace : 
'  Qeye  thankes  to  Grod  with  one  accorde 
For  that  shall  be  set  on  this  borde^ 
And  be  not  careful  what  to  eate. 
To  echo  thynge  lyyynge  the  Lord  sends  meato ; 
For  foode  he  wyll  not  se  you  peryshe, 
But  wyll  you  fede,  foster  and  cheryshe  ; 
Take  weU  in  worth  what  he  hath  sent, 
At  thys  time  be  therwith  content 

Praysynge  God.' 
So  treatablie  speakyng,  as  possibly  thou  can. 
That  the  hearers  thereof  may  thee  understau. 
Grace  beynge  eayde,  low  cursie  make  thou, 
Sayinge  *  much  good  may  it  do  you.' " 

Having  followed  up  grace  with  this  civil  wish,  the 
little  man  of  Seager's  "  Schoole  of  Vertue"  bestirred 


16  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

himself  in  the  duties  of  a  gentle  serving-page  to  the 
best  of  his  ability,,  ministering  to  the  comfort  of 
others  before  he  took  his  own  share  of  the  repast. 
If  elders  in  olden  time  were  served  before  their 
juniors,  the  youngsters  were  spared  the  annoyance 
of  sitting  listlessly  with  folded  hands,  and  hungrily 
eyeing  the  savoury  dishes  which  they  might  not 
touch.  Their  zeal  and  interest  in  their  ministerial 
duties  spared  them  the  sharp  discomforts  of  ex- 
pectancy felt  by  children,  who  may  only  watch  and 
flit  still,  till  they  get  their  portions. 

In  the  absence  of  clergy  and  children,  the  choice 
of  a  grace-sayer  lies  between  the  host  and  the 
mistress  of  the  house;  for  the  quite  obsolete 
fashion  of  imposing  the  duty  on  an  important 
guest,  out  of  compliment  to  his  importance,  was  too 
snobbish  and  ridiculous  for  anyone  to  desire  its 
revival.  There  are  reasons  why  the  host,  as  the 
bread-winner  and  human  giver  of  the  feast,  might 
be  thought  the  fittest  person  to  offer  thanks  to  the 
divine  Giver.  But  if  he  has  a  wife,  Amphitryon 
will  usually  do  well  to  make  her  the  orator.  As 
speakers  of  graces,  laymen  are  seldom  more  suc- 
cessful than  clerks.  They  are  usually  sheepish  or 
pompous.  Your  master  of  the  house  is  rarely  a 
good  performer.  If  he  does  not  hurry  through  the 
thanksgiving,  as  though  he  deemed  it  a  piece  of 
trifling,  and  were  ashamed  of  his  part  in  the  puerile 


BEFORE   AND   AFTBE.  17 

« 

transaction,  he  becomes  a  burlesque  of  solemnity 
and  opens  the  feast  as  though  he  were  burying  a 
friend.  It  is  otherwise  with  his  wife.  Her  voice 
cannot  be  unmusical ;  and  womanly  taste  and 
^  /  instinct  enable  her  to  hit  the  proper  vocal  note 
between  colloquial  lightness  and  religious  severity. 
Moreover,  the  duty  becomes  her  place.  Thanks 
for  daily  bread  are  fitly  offered  by  her  whose  dis- 
tinctive title  proclaims  her  the  distributor  of  it. 

My  experience  of  graces  discredits  the  cynical 
sentiment  that  gratitude  is  thankfulness  for  favours 
to  come.  Thanks  after  meat  are  usually  far  more 
emphatic  and  cordial  than  graces  before  it.  Hunger 
is  an  enemy  to  pious  emotion.  The  ravenous 
Christian  is  too  much  occupied  with  sharp  desire 
and  painful  craving,  to  have  a  devout  regard  for 
the  mercies  he  is  only  on  the  point  of  receiving. 
But  full  of  wine  and  venison,  the  satisfied  feaster 
speaks  from  the  plenitude  of  a  grateful  heart.  On 
the  other  hand,  it  must  be  acknowledged  that  the 
tone  and  words  of  the  later  grace  are  sometimes 
expressive  of  disappointment  and  critical  censure. 
Everyone  remembers  the  story  of  the  clerical 
humourist,  who,  on  being  pressed  to  say  an  after- 
dinner  grace  at  a  table  where  he  had  been  too 
frequently  regaled  with  rabbits,  observed  signifi- 
cantly : — 

VOL.  I.  0 


i  \ 


18  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

"  Of  rabbits  young  and  rabbits  old, 
Of  rabbits  hot  and  rabbits  cold, 
Of  rabbits  tender  and  rabbits  tough, 
Thank  the  Lord,  I  have  had  enough  /*' 

The  memory,  also,  comes  to  me  of  Dr.  Clement, 
courtliest  and  kindliest  of  physicians,  who  had  a 
series  of  after-dinner  graces  that  nicely  expressed 
the  degrees  of  his  thankfulness.  When  he  had 
partaken  of  a  faultless  repast,  he  would  reward 
Mrs,  Clement  with  a  radiant  smile>  and  then  turn- 
ing his  eyes  upwards,  say  emphatically,  "  Thank 
God  for  an  excellent  dinner.*'  A  dinner  of  merit, 
though  of  inferior  excellence,  was  acknowledged  de- 
voutly with,  "  Thank  God  for  a  good  dinner/'  An 
ordinary  regalement,  that  would  justify  neither 
special  praise  nor  positive  reproof,  elicited  no 
heartier  grace  than,  "  Well  1  I  am  thankful  for  my 
dinner."  But  when  the  repast  had  consisted  of 
cold  meats,  and  unpalatable  reproductions  of 
yesterday's  fare,  the  worthy  man  used  to  pray  in  a 
plaintively  lugubrious  tone  of  grievance,  as  though 
he  were  protesting  against  ill-usage,  and  imploring 
an  impossibility.  "  May  the  Lord  make  me  thank- 
ful for  what  I  have  received  P^  On  hearing  this 
dolorous  entreaty,  Mrs.  Clement  seldom  failed  to 
deliver  some  equally  appropriate  and  edifying  re- 
marks on  the  sin  of  daintiness.  But  to  her  honour, 
it  must  be  recorded,  that  the  offensive  hint  was  not 


AT  oliffobd's  inn.  19 

thrown  away  upon  her.  To  the  last  the  doctor's 
graces  were  instructions  to  his  wife,  as  well  as 
thanks  to  Heaven. 

On  festal  days,  in  some  of  our  civic  and 
collegiate  halls,  after-dinner  grace  is  attended  with 
usages,  alike  ancient  and  courteous.  One  of  them 
is  the  passing  round  of  "  poculum  caritatis,"  or 
"loving  cup,"  whose  scarcely  palatable  contents 
will  be  mentioned  in  a  later  section  of  this  work. 

Much,  also,  might  be  said  about  obsolete  or 
almost  disused  forms  of  thanksgiving  of  meat, 
one  of  the  strangest  of  which  is  the  grace  still 
acted,  instead  of  spoken,  at  the  terminal  dinners 
at  Clifford's  Inn.  After  the  banquets  of  that 
learned  society,  members  and  guests  rise,  on  the 
removal  of  the  white  cloth,  and  witness  the  follow- 
ing thanksgiving  in  pantomime.  Before  the  presi- 
dent of  the  second  table  the  butler  puts  a  mass  of 
bread,  consisting  of  four  loaves,  adhering  to  each 
other  by  their  kissing  crusts.  Taking  this  mass  of 
bread  in  his  right  hand,  the  said  president  of  the 
second  table  slowly  raises  it  above  his  head  to  the 
full  reach  of  his  arm,  and  after  a  few  moments' 
pause  brings  it  down  with  a  thunderous  whack  on 
the  oaken  table.  A  second  time  the  bread  is 
elevated,  and  struck  upon  the  resounding  board. 
Yet  a  third  time  the  feat  is  performed ;  and  then, 
before   strangers  have  had  time   to  recover   from 

0  2 


20  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

their  astonishment,  the  grace-actor  has  thrown  the 
bread  so  that  it  slides  and  spins  down  to  the  bottom 
of  the  long  table,  where  it  is  caught  np  by  the 
butler,  who  instantly  runs  out  of  the  .dining-hall 
with  it  in  his  outstretched  hands.  The  whole  grace 
is  typical.  The  four  loaves  represent  the  four 
Gospels;  the  three  elevations  are  in  reverence  of 
the  three  persons  of  the  Sacred  Trinity;  the 
manner  in  which  the  bread  is  cast  down  the  table, 
indicates  the  liberality  with  which  the  Bread  of  Life 
was  given  to  mankind;  the  alacrity  with  which  the 
butler  runs  out  of  the  hall  exemplifies  the  alacrity 
with  which  zealous  servants  hasten  to  distribute  the 
bread  of  spiritual  knowledge  to  those  who  hunger 
for  it.  The  date  of  this  singular  grace  is  unknown  ; 
but  it  is  certainly  of  ancient  origin,  and  no  one  can 
question  that  it  sprung  from  devout  sentiment.  It 
teaches  that,  whilst  grateful  for  the  bread  which 
only  sustains  perishable  existence,  men  should  be 
far  more  thankful  for  the  bread  which  affords 
eternal  Life. 


21 


.  CHAPTER  11. 

BRITONS   AT   TABLE. 

"  The  Aborigines  of  Britain,  to  come  nearer  home,  conld  have  no 
great  ezpertness  in  cookery,  as  they  had  no  oil,  and  we  hear  nothing 
of  their  butter.  They  used  only  sheep  and  oxen,  eating  neither 
hares,  though  greatly  esteemed  at  Borne,  nor  hens,  nor  geese,  from 
a  notion  of  superstition.  Nor  did  thej  eat  fish.  There  was  little 
com  even  in  the  interior  part  of  the  island;  but  they  lived  chiefly 
on  milk  and  flesh." — Vide  Eev.  Samuel  Pegge's  Inteoduction  to 
"The  Fohme  op  Cury." 

"  L'univers  n'est  rien  que  par  la  vie,  et  tout  ce  qui  vit  se  nourrit. — 
Les  animaux  se  repaissent,  I'homme  mange ;  Thomme  d'esprit  seul 
sait  manger. — La  destinee  des  nations  depend  de  la  maniere  donf; 
elles  se  nourrissent. — Le  Cr^ateur,  en  obligeant  Thomme  a  manger 
pour  vivre,  Ty  invite  par  I'app^tit,  et  Ten  recompense  par  le  plaisir." 
— Bkillat-Savasin's  ••  Aphokisms." 

IN  the  last  century  before  the  Christian  era,  an 
important  suggestion  respecting  the  origin  of 
cookery  was  made  by  Posidonius  of  Rhodes,  who 
was  so  perfect  a  stoic  that,  whilst  experiencing  the 
sharpest  pangs  of  gout,  he  could  converse  cheer- 
fully with  Pompey  on  the  agreeable  excitements  of 
pain,  and  declare  that  his  bodily  disturbance  could 
not  be  justly  termed  a  malady,  as  it  was  no  evil. 

To  this  philosopher,  who  could  enjoy  a  tooth- 
ache and  think  sciatica  a  blessing,  it  occurred  that 
cooking  of  the  simplest  kind  was  a  mere  imitation 


I 


22  A    BOOK   ABOUT   THE   TABLE. 

of  natural  processes,  and  that,  in  respect  to  his 
culinary  needs,  every  man  might  *'  paddle  his  own 
canoe."  Any  man  provided  with  a  good  set  of 
teeth,  glands  for  the  secretion  of  saliva,  a  tongue, 
^and  the  usual  apparatus  for  digestion,  could  prepare 
his  own  bread  by  merely  consuming  the  grain  of 
which  bread  might  be  made  in  a  more  troublesome 
fashion.  His  teeth  could  do  the  work  of  a  mill ; 
with  the  help  of  a  natural  secretion,  his  tongue 
could  knead  the  materials  which  the  teeth  had 
ground ;  muscular  action  might  be  trusted  to  put 
the  dough  into  an  oven — the  bread-maker's  stomach 
— where  it  would  be  properly  prepared  for  the 
nutrition  of  the  body.  All  that  a  professional  cook 
could  do  in  the  matter  was  to  copy  the  operations 
of  the  bodily  machine.  Under  certain  circum- 
stances the  copyist  might  lighten  the  body's  labour, 
but  he  could  never  do  away  with  the  need  of  it. 
Every  man,  in  fact,  was  supplied  with  an  excel- 
lent cooking  apparatus,  and  should  be  his  own 
cook. 

Fortunately  for  the  readers  of  this  work,  it  is  not 
necessary  that  they  should  trace  the  culinary  art 
through  every  stage  of  its  development,  from  the 
time  when  man  took  his  first  step  to  gastronomic 
proficiency  from  a  consideration  of  the  body's  way 
of  dealing  with  uncooked  corn.  But  they  should 
reflect  on  the  historic   certainty  that  eating  pre- 


EXOEPTIONS   TO   A   RULE.  23 

ceded  cookery,  which  art  must  be  regarded  as  the 
invention  of  luxury  rather  than  necessity.  And 
having  thus  glanced  at  the  dismal  period  which  pre- 
ceded the  earliest  practices  of  the  kitchen,  they 
should  consider  for  a  few  minutes  the  culinary 
barbarism  of  our  rather  remote  and  very  "rude 
forefathers." 

"  Dis-moi-  ce  que  tu  manges,  je  te  dirai  ce  que  tu 
es,"  "  Tell  me  what  thou  eatest  and  I  will  tell 
thee  what  thou  art,"  said  Brillat-Savarin,  pointing 
to  a  grand  truth.  Just  as  the  man  who  drinks  beer 
inordinately,  thinks  it,  the  gross  feeder  is  sure  to 
be  a  heavy  thinker.  The  man  who  lives  on  beef- 
steaks may  be  robust,  but  he  is  not  likely  to  have 
nice  instincts  or  a  subtle  mind.  There  are  limits, 
however,  to  the  applicability  of  every  maxim,  and 
conditions  under  which  the  wisest  rules  will  mislead 
its  inconsiderate  followers.  Mention  could  be  made 
of  gastronomic  eccentricities  from  which  the  epicu- 
rean Frenchman  would  have  drawn  wron^  infer- 
ences,  in  spite  of  his  sagacity  and  fine  knowledge 
of  human  nature.  Dry  den  delighted  in  the  huge 
masses  of  almost  raw  meat  that  gave  him  restless 
nights  and  a  wakeful  muse.  Lord  Bldon's  teeth 
and  eyes  never  failed  to  water  from  delight  when  * 
his  nostrils  ci^ught  the  smell  of  fried  pig's  liver  and 
bacon.     George  the  First's*  liveliest  gust  was  for 

*  **  Heliogobalus  and  George  I.  had  this  in  common,  that  they 


24  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

putrid  oysters.  Had  M.  Brillat-Savarin  rashly- 
estimated  those  three  feeders  from  their  favourite 
refreshments  he  would  have  called  the  first  a  prize- 
fighter, the  second  a  ploughman,  and  the  third  a 
beast.  In  which  case  he  would  have  been  quite 
wrong  with  respect  to  the  poet  and  the  peer,  and 
not  altogether  right  regarding  the  king. 

Judged  fi:om  the  gastronomic  point  of  view,  it 
must  be  confessed  that  our  British  ancestors,  at  the 
time  of  the  Roman  conquest,  were  persons  for 
whom  we  have  cause  to  blush.  Whatever  his  pride 
of  descent,  there  is  a  point  in  his  pedigree  where 
every  man  finds  it  well  to  relinquish  curiosity  about 
his  lineal  forefathers.  It  is  never  prudent  for  the 
chief  of  a  noble  house  to  seek  for  the  story  of  its 
founder's  grandfat]ier.  For  myself,  if  I  could  trace 
my  familiar  stock  to  a  gentle  Briton  of  the  Roman 
period,  I  would  rest  content  and  ask  no  questions 
about  his  grandfather  of  pre-Roman  time.  Even  a 
Welshman  would  be  slow  to  boast  himself  the 
direct  representative  of  a  chieftain  who  was  at  best 
a  pious  cannibal,  with  a  quick  eye  for  tit-bits  at  a 
•Druidical  banquet. 

both  liked  fish  a  trifle  stale.  Thus,  it  is  known  that  George  never 
cared  for  oysters  till  their  shells  began  spontaneously  to  gape  ;  and 
the  Oriental  master  of  the  B.oman  Empire,  who  made  a  barber 
prefect  of  his  provisions,  except  at  a  great  distance  from  the  sea*, 
when  they  acquired  the  taint  he  loved." — Vide  Doran's  "Table 
Teaits  with  something  on  them."    (Second  Edition).    1854. 


HUNGEB   AND   ACORNS.  25 

When  history  first  condescended  to  notice  our 
British  forefathers,,  their  cooking  was  of  Posidonian 
simplicity.  Indeed,  it  is  questionable  whether  their 
culinary  practice  covered  all  the  operations  noticed 
by  the  stoical  observer.  Diodorus  Siculus,  an  au- 
thority on  many  matters  at  this  date,  albeit  an 
arrant  and  ludicrously  inaccurate  book-maker,  some- 
thing less  than  two  thousand  years  since,  assures 
US  that  they  lived  chiefly  on  dried  corn,  which  they 
brayed  in  mortars,  and  worked  into  a  heavy  paste. 
The  mightiest  chieftain  of  them  all  had  never  a 
morsel  of  butter  wherewith  to  lubricate  this  fari- 
naceous mess.  When  corn  failed  these  eaters  of 
paste,  hunger  gave  them  appetite  for  acorns — the 
food  of  swine,  and  so  bitter  a  substitute  for  meat, 
that  the  men  of  these  luxurious  days  can  scarcely 
believe  it  to  have  ever  been  a  common  article  of 
diet.  It  is  less  generally  known,  that  the  same 
nauseous  fare  was  consumed  in  seasons  of  scarcity 
by  our  ancestors  of  much  more  recent  time.  But 
William  Harrison,*  supremely  first  of  Elizabethan 
chroniclers,  assures  us  that,  even  in  his  day,  the 
poorer  folk  of  England  sometimes  ate  a  bread  made 
partly  or  altogether  of  acorns. 

♦  "The  bread,"  he  says  in  his  Introduction  to  Holinshed*s 
Chronicles,  "  throughout  the  lande  is  made  of  such  graine  as  the 
Boile  jealdeth,  neverthelesse  the  gentilitie  commonlie  provide  them- 
selves sufficientlie  of  wheat  for  their  own  tables,  whilst  their  house- 
hold and  poor  neighbours  in  some  shires  are  inforced  to  content 


26  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

« 

There  were  hard  times,  when,  in  the  dearth  of 
mast,  the  aborigines  of  our  productive  land  de- 
voured herbs  and  roots,  even  more  distasteful  and 
indigestible  than  the  fruit  of  the  oak.  But  they  had 
palliatives  for  the  torments  of  famine.  Harrison 
records  that  in  the  Northern  districts  they  possessed 
a  "  certaine  kind  of  confection,"  made,  probably,  of 
earth  and  the  inspissated  juices  of  narcotic  herbs, 
a  small  pill  of  which  alleviated  wonderfully  the  pain 
of  fasting.  Another  of  their  measures  against 
hunger  is  more  singular  and  incredible.  In  the 
extremity  of  their  anguish,  the  famished  wretches 
had  recourse  to  a  primitive  kind  of  water-cure. 
Creeping  out  to  the  fens  and  morasses,  they  placed 
themselves  in  "  moorish  plots  up  unto  their  chins," 

themselves  with  rie  or  barlie,  yea,  and  in  time  of  dearth,  manie 
with  bread  made  either  of  beans,  peason  or  otes,  or  of  altogither  or 
some  acorns  among,  of  which  scourge  the  poorest  doo  soonest  taste, 
sith  they  are  least  able  to  provide  themselves  of  better.  I  will  not 
saie  that  this  extremitie  is  oft  so  well  to  be  seene  in  time  of  plentie 
as  of  dearth,  bat  if  I  should,  I  could  easily  beare  roy  trial  1.  For 
albeit  there  be  much  ground  now  eared  in  euerie  place,  than  hath 
beene  of  late  yeares,  yet  such  a  price  of  come  continueth  in  each 
towne  and  market  without  anie  just  cause  (except  it  be  that  land- 
lords doo  get  licenses  to  carie  come  out  of  the  lande  onelie  to  keepe 
up  the  prices  for  their  owne  private  gaines  and  ruine  of  the  common- 
wealth), that  the  artificer  and  poore  labouring  man  is  not  able  to 
reach  unto  it ;  but  is  driven  to  content  himself  with  horse-come, 
I  mean  beanes,  peason,  otes,  tares,  and  lintels,  and  therefore  it  is 
a  true  proverbe,  that '  hunger  setteth  his  foot  in  the  horse-manger.' " 
— Vide  William  Harrison's  "  Introduction." 


THE   COLD  WATEB  CURE.  27 

and  sat  for  hours  at  a  time  in  mud  and  water.  They 
were  of  opinion  that  the  cold  and  wet  "  qualified 
the  heats  of  their  stomachs,"  and  weakened  their 
yearning  for  food.  Strange  to  say,  the  eflScacy  of 
this  process  has  not  been  fully  tested  in  these  days 
of  scientific  inquiry.  But  any  reader  of  this  work 
who  is  prone  to  be  irritable  when  his  wife  keeps 
him  waiting  for  dinner,  may  easily  make  trial  of 
the  frigid  treatment.  Instead  of  venting  his  dis- 
pleasure at  an  absent  wife  in  angry  words,  let  him 
retire  to  his  bath-room,  turn  on  the  cold  water, 
and  sit  in  it  till  she  has  returned  from  her  after- 
noon's drive.  He  will,  of  course,  select  for  the 
experiment  a  day  in  the  sharpest  season  of  winter. 

It  may  not,  however,  be  inferred  from  the 
Sicilian's  inadequate  account  of  early  British  fare, 
that  the  Britons  were  vegetarians.  We  have  a 
better  authority  on  the  subject  in  Julius  Caesar, 
who  studied  the  barbarous  islanders  whilst  he  was 
subjugating  them,  and  who  put  it  on  record  that 
they  were  habitual  consumers  of  flesh  and  milk. 
Superstition  forbade  them  to  eat  the  goose,  the 
hare,  and  the  chicken,  and  they  were  strangely 
neglectful  of  the  fishes  that  abounded  in  their 
rivers.  But  they  were  eaters  of  meat.  Though 
the  savour  of  a  perfectly  roasted  sirloin  of  beef  may 
have  never  delighted  their  nerves  of  taste  and 
smell,   they  devoured  on  gaudy  days  huge  lumps 


28  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

of  badly  broiled  flesh.  On  especial  occasions,  also, 
they  were  partakers  of  those  bloody  and  repulsive 
banquets,  to  which  I  have  already  alluded,  with  a 
flippancy  that  will  be  sternly  reprobated  ^y  censors, 
whose  treatment  of  serious  subjects  is  always  in 
the  best  taste. 

But  though  the  early  Britisb  chieftain's  table 
may,  under  ordinary  circumstances,  have  possessed 
the  materials  for  gross  gluttony,  no  words  can 
palliate  its  shortcomings.  At  the  best  it  was  grace- 
less, comfortless,  and  savage.  It  had  neither  a 
code  of  etiquette,  nor  a  soup,  nor  any  sauce  but 
hunger.  It  is  believed  to  have  been  altogether 
without  the  means  of  intoxication. 

The  Koman  occupation  was  beneficent  to  the 
conquered  people  in  culinary  matters.  Together  with 
his  munitions  and  rules  of  war,  the  conqueror  brought 
his  science  and  implements  of  cookery.  Provided 
with  various  stew-pans  and  half-a-score  of  piquant 
zests,  he  used  them  as  means  of  government  no 
less  than  as  instruments  of  selfish  gratification. 
Cooks  completed  the  work  which  the  triumphant 
legions  had  only  begun.  The  latter  had  only 
crushed  and  terrified  a  turbulent  people — the 
former  afforded  timely  consolation  to  the  fallen 
race,  and,  by  giving  them  a  new  field  of  enjoyment, 
inspired  them  with  self-respect  and  hope.  Cookery 
and  civilization  are  not  purchased  too  dearly  by 


CONQUEST  AND  COOKERY.  29 

barbarians  who  acquire  them  by  the  sacrifice 
of  a  more  or  less  imaginary  independence.  The 
more  intelligent  of  the  Britons  thought  so,  as  they 
sniflFed  the  steaming  pottages,  and  sip;: cd  the  wines 
of  their  victors.  Physical  force  gave  culinary  art 
the  requisite  time  for  the  exercise  of  its  influence ; 
but  the  captains  would  have  failed  if  the  chefs  had 
not  been  equal  to  the  occasion.  Cookery  reconciled 
the  islanders  to  the  presence  and  sway  of  the 
foreigner.  No  doubt,  the  older  and  less  adaptive 
of  the  aborigines  scorned  the  allurements  of  Roman 
kitchens,  and,  holding  to  their  old  notions  respect- 
ing unclean  and  sacred  meats,  disdained  to  dip 
their  fingers  in  a  bowl  of  cocky-leekie.  But  the 
younger  islanders,  surrendering  themselves  to 
savoury  fascinations,  learnt  to  bless  the  conqueror 
who  taught  them  to  appreciate  the  oyster,  to  stew 
the  goose,  to  jug  the  hare,  and  cook  the  pullet  in 
half  a  hundred  ways.  Having  accepted  the 
foreigner's  government  on  compulsion,  they  took 
his  sauces  from  preference,  and  his  ragouts  from 
gastronomic  affection. 

The  German  immigrants  who  settled  in  Britain 
during  the  Roman  occupation,  were  also  alive  to 
the  merits  of  the  cookery  practised  by  the  rulers 
and  superior  aborigines  of  their  adopted  land. 
Caring  chiefly  for  the  quantity,  they  were  not  in- 
difibrent  to  the  quality  of  their  viands.     That  they 


30  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

delighted  in  rich  soups  is  indicated  by  the  Saxon 
name  which,  from  the  time  of  Alfred  to  that  of 
Henry  the  Seventh,  designated  a  variety  of  thick 
stews,  and  is  still  preserved  in  the  terms  of  culinary 
art.  Broth  and  bread  are  Saxon  words;  the 
former  of  the  two  words  was  part  of  the  verb 
"  briwan,  to  cook,"  whence  also  came  "  brewing," 
the  process  of  making  malt  liquor,  and  "  brewets," 
the  popular  name  in  mediaeval  England  for  highly 
seasoned  hotch-potches  of  stewed  meat,  thickened 
with  meal.  In  "  steak"  and  "  steam"  we  have  two 
other  philological  indications  of  the  care  expended 
by  the  Saxons  on  gastronomic  art.  We  should  not 
be  justiEed  in  crediting  them  with  the  re-invention, 
or  even  with  the  introduction  of  malt  liquor,  a 
drink  known  to  the  ancient  Egyptians.  On  ac- 
quiring a  taste  for  alcohol  from  the  Romans,  the 
Britons  learnt  from  the  same  teachers  how  to 
prepare  wine  from  corn.  But  it  is  to  the  honour 
of  the  Saxons,  that  at  a  happy  moment  of  genial 
inspiration  they  gave  malt-brewet  the  expressive 
title  of  "  ale" — the  cheerful  giver  of  warmth. 

Though  its  name  is  of  Greek  extraction,  butter 
is  an  article  of  food  that  was  probably  brought  to 
this  country  by  the  Teuton  immigrants.  "  Churn  " 
is  a  Saxon  term.  The  Romans  were  connoisseurs 
of  "  cheese  ;"  but  with  their  southern  taste  for  oil, 
as  the  proper   instrument  of  culinary  lubrication, 


AXTIQTJE   BUTTE  E.  31 

they  disdained  to  use  at  their  tables  the  greasy 
substance  whose  chief  title  to  their  respect  was  its 
efficacy,  when  employed  as  a  medicinal  unguent. 
Indeed,  butter  was  a  thing  of  curiosity  rather  than 
of  service  to  the  ancients  of  Greece  and  Rome. 
Its  use,  for  any  dietetic  purpose,  was  confined  to 
a  few  of  the  old  peoples.  The  Israelites  were  no 
consumers  of  the  oily  mass.  This  is  one  of  the 
points  on  which  Biblical  commentators  have  ceased 
to  differ.  The  "  chamea,'*  offered  to  the  vanquished 
Sisera  on  a  "  lordly  dish  *'  by  the  most  treacherous 
murderess  of  all  history,  was  a  preparation  of  thick 
milk.  It  was  a  fluid  that,  to  a  poetic  imagination, 
might  have  run  down  in  streams.  It  certainly  was 
no  such  product  as  farmers'  wives  were  wont  to 
sell  by  the  pint  in  Suffolk,  and  by  the  yard  in  Cam- 
bridgeshire. The  Greeks  derived  their  knowledge 
of  badly  made  butter  from  the  Thracians,  the 
Phrygians,  and  the  Scythians.  The  same  know- 
ledge came  to  the  Romans  from  Germany,  to  whose 
barbarous  tribes  Pliny  attributes  the  invention  of 
the  process  for  collecting  the  oily  particles  from 
milk. 

In  proportion  as  his  climate  is  colder,  man  re- 
quires for  his  comfort  and  support  a  larger  supply 
of  heat-producing  aliment.  The  pie-men  of  St. 
Petersburg  pour  train-oil  on  their  pies,  to  the  satis- 
faction of  their  customers.     Sir  John  Franklin,  to 


32  A  BOOK  ABOUT  TEE  TABLE. 

his  surprise  and  alarm,  saw  an  Esquimaux  youth 
consume  fourteen  pounds  of  tallow  candles  at  a 
single  sitting ;  and  the  young  gentleman  was  desir- 
ous of  continuing  the  feast,  when  Sir  John,  who 
had  offered  to  give  him  as  many  candles  as  he  could 
eat,  bought  him  off  with  the  present  of  a  large 
lump  of  fat  pork.  Possessing  the  butyric  art,  it 
is  reasonable  to  suppose  that  the  Northern  Germans, 
living  in  a  rigorous  atmosphere,  were  great  con- 
sumers of  butter.  They  may  also  be  credited  with 
introducing  to  this  country  the  preparation  which 
was  unknown  to  the  Britons  of  the  pre-Roman 
period.  One  can  believe  that  a  wholesomely  super- 
stitious dame  of  the  Saxon  race  was  the  originator 
of  the  pious  maxim,  "  Don't  swear,  or  the  butter 
won't  come."  To  the  same  source,  also,  may  be 
referred  the  adage,  preserved  in  Thomas  Cogan's 
"Haven  of  Health"  (1596),  "Butter  is  gold  in 
the  morning,  silver  at  noon,  and  lead  at  night." 

The  withdrawal  of  the  Romans  was  a  serious 
blow  to  gastronomy  in  Britain ;  but  it  would  be  a 
mistake  to  suppose  that  their  culinary  practice  dis- 
appeared with  their  arms.  Cookery  is  an  art  whose 
lessons  are  not  speedily  forgotten.  Conservative  in 
all  that  pertains  to  social  usages,  man  is  especially  so 
in  matters  of  the  table.  It  is,  therefore,  impossible 
that  the  superior  aborigines,  who  had  been  slowly, 
and  at   first   reluctantly,   weaned  from   the  gross 


SAXON  COOKEEY.  33 

tastes  of  their  forefathers,  would  immediately  lapse 
into  culinary  barbarism  on  the  disappearance  of 
the  benefactors  whose  arts  and  garb  they  had 
adopted.  Nor  were  the  Germans  neglectful  of  the 
precepts  of  the  Roman  epicures.  Power  is  the 
nurse  of  luxury ;  and  with  their  growing  influence 
the  Saxons  doubtless  exhibited  a  finer  taste  in 
eating. 

It  has  been  too  much  the  fashion  with  writers 
to  deride  the  meanness  and  coarseness  of  Saxon 
fare.  In  his  sweet  bread  and  bright  butter,  the 
Thane  had  two  important  requisites  for  a  good 
table.  Though  inferior  to  fermented  juices  of  the 
grape,  his  daily  liquor  was  no  contemptible  drink. 
The  potage  was  always  present  when  his  board  was 
spread.  Eome  had  taught  him  how  to  treat  deer 
and  small  game,  the  flesh  of  swine  and  oxen,  and 
the  meat  of  wild-fowl.  Fish  was  one  of  his 
favourite  foods,  and  he  cooked  eggs  in  divers 
fashions. 

In  the  absence  of  garum,  he  was  not  without 
some  meritorious  sauces  and  relishes.  Nor  was  his 
table  wanting  in  other  evidences  of  refinement. 
Saxon  art  has  transmitted  to  us  proofs  that  the  later 
Saxons  covered  their  tables  with  linen  cloths,  used 
napkins,  and  were  served  ceremoniously  by  kneeling 
ministrants.  I  am  disposed  to  think  that,  on  their 
arrival  in  this  country,  the  luxurious  Normans,  as 

VOL.  I.  D 


34  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

they  are  always  termed  in  popular  history,  brought 
with  them  few  kitchen  luxuries  that  were  not 
familiar  to  the  vanquished  chieftains. 

On  the  other  hand,  due  allowance  must  be  made 
for  the  natural  propensities  of  a  robust  and  phleg- 
matic people,  who  were  certainly  less  disposed  to 
daintiness  than  to  gluttony.  Often  immoderate, 
the  Saxons  were  seldom  fastidious  eaters.  In  drink- 
ing, they  cared  little  for  flavour,  provided  they 
could  achieve  their  principal  objects — the  excite- 
ment and  stupefaction  of  drunkenness. 

In  these  respects,  the  Danes  resembled  the 
Saxons.  Eivalling  them  in  gluttony,  they  ap- 
pear to  have  surpassed  them  in  toping.  To  the 
Danes,  our  ancestors  are  indebted  for  those  of  their 
old  drinking  usages,  that  are  most  strongly  signifi- 
cant of  intemperance.  The  representative  men  of 
the  two  stocks  are  remembered  for  their  excesses  in 
feasting,  as  well  as  for  their  policies.  The  virtuous 
Al&ed  did  not  practise  moderation  in  diet,  until  he 
had  paid  a  heavy  penalty  for  gross  indulgence. 
Canute  the  Hardy  prided  himself  on  his  ostenta- 
tious and  incessant  hospitalities,  and  on  adding  two 
meals  to  the  daily  regalements  of  his  aristocracy. 
It  is  noteworthy  that  each  of  these  kings  suffered 
severely  from  bridal  feasting.  Alfred  the  Great 
injured  his  constitution  irreparably,  by  swinish 
excess  at  his  own  wedding.     Something  more  than 


EOYAL  HOSPITALITY  35 

a  hundred  and  seventy  years  later,  Canute  the 
Hardy  drank  himself  to  death  at  a  marriage 
banquet.  So  perished  the  Dane,  of  whom  history 
records,  "  He  covered  four  times  a  day  the  tables, 
at  which  all  who  came  to  them  were  welcome 
guests." 


D  2 


36 


CHAPTER  III. 

'ANTIQUE   FEASTING. 

"  Old  Lucollus,  they  say. 

Forty  cooks  had  each  day, 
And  yitellius*8  meals  cost  a  million ; 

But  I  like  what  is  good 

When  or  where  be  my  food, 
In  a  chop-house  or  royal  pavilion. 

''At  all  feasts  (if enough) 

I  most  heartily  stuff, 
And  a  song  at  my  heart  alike  rushes, 

Though  I've  not  fed  my  lungs 

Upon  nightingales'  tongues, 
Nor  the  brains  of  goldfinches  and  thrushes." 

Captain  Mokris's  "  Songs." 

WHEN  it  perished,  after  a  long  decay,  the 
Eoman  Empire  bequeathed  two  precious 
legacies  to  mankind — its  laws  and  its  cookery. 
The  societies  that  reformed  themselves  on  Theo- 
dosian  principles,  on  emerging  from  the  disorder 
and  violence  of  universal  anarchy,  followed  the 
culinary  precepts  which  Rome  had  taught  and 
illustrated  in  her  period  of  highest  luxury.  Social 
convulsions  had  never  caused  a  general  neglect  of 
those  rules.  To  suppose  that  the  Apician  code  fell 
out  of   sight  and  practice   during    the   struggles 


THOUGH  BMPIEBS   FALL.  37 

which  preceded  and  followed  the  empire's  dissolu- 
tion,'is  to  surpass  in  imaginative  error  the  historians 
who  long  maintained  that  the  medisBval  civilians  were 
indebted  for  their  system  to  the  accidental  discovery 
of  a  copy  of  Justinian's  pandects. 

Political  agitations  lessen  neither  the  appetite  nor 
the  need  for  food.  The  people  of  a  falling  State 
must  have  their  pottage.  Public  calamity  may 
occupy  the  mind,  but  it  cannot  satisfy  the  belly. 
War  and  flight  only  sharpen  the  desire  for  meat 
and  drink.  The  fasting  soldier  cannot  fight ;  the 
hungry  fugitive  falls  behind  his  comrades.  It  is 
the  same  with  private  sorrow.  The  death  of  a 
virtuous  citizen  is  an  occasion  for  ofi^ering  a  funeral 
banquet  to  his  mourners.  Whilst  Rome  lay  gasping 
on  her  death-bed,  spits  turned  before  her  kitchen- 
fires.  When  she  was  dead,  and  her  heirs  were 
struggling  desperately  for  one  or  another  of  the  dis- 
Bevered  portions  of  her  estate,  the  spits  went  on 
turning,  and  her  cooks,  the  slaves  of  precedent, 
prepared  their  sauces,  and  seasoned  their  dishes, 
by  the  rules  of  Apicius,  even  as  our  English  cooks 
followed  the  directions  of  Mrs.  Glasse  and  Mrs. 
Rundell  on  the  eve  of  the  battle  of  Waterloo,  and 
as  they  would  obey  the  orders  of  Acton  and  Ude, 
if  the  Germans  were  marching  on  London,  or 
Mr.  Odger  were  First  President  of  the  British 
Republic. 


38  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE.   . 

Religion  passes  from  east  to  west;  cookery 
northwards  from  the  south.  Our  earliest  dinners 
were  brought  us  by  the  legions  of  Caesar.  And 
from  that  dawn  of  gastronomic  science  on  our 
island,  whenever  cookery  has  languished  amongst 
us,  she  has  looked  to  the  South  for  new  ideas  and 
another  inspiration.  It  was  so  at  the  decay  of 
feudalism,  at  the  Caroline  restoration,  and  at  the 
beginning  of  the  present  century.  The  influence 
of  ancient  Rome  may  still  be  recognized  in  our 
soups  and  entries,  our  sausages  and  salads. 
Lobster  rissoles  were  invented  and  brought  to 
perfection  by  Heliogabalus. 

But  though  we  owe  a  vast  debt  of  gratitude  to 
Rome  for  her  culinary  benefactions,  we  need  not 
shut  our  eyes  to  the  imperfections  and  bar- 
baric grossness  of  her  cuisine.  If  it  was  a  great 
thing  for  our  remote  forefathers  to  have  ac« 
quired  her  system,  it  was  even  more  fortunate 
that  our  nearer  ancestors  had  the  intelligence 
and  courage  to  liberate  themselves  from  its 
thraldom. 

The  discomforts  and  gastronomic  outrages  of  an 
Augustan  supper  are  so  notorious,  that  no  epicure 
of  modem  London  would  care  to  accept  an  invita- 
tion to  a  feast  served  after  the  manner  of  the 
ancients.  Even  though  he  had  perfect  confidence 
in  the  Amphitryon's    scholarly  competence  for  a 


THE    MANNER   OP   THE   ANCIENTS.  39 

difficult  enterprise,  he  would  avoid  an  entertain- 
ment  more  likely  to  ruffle  his  temper,  and  offend 
his  palate,  than  to  cheer  his  spirits  and  gratify  bis 
taste.  Bearing  in  mind  the  requirements  of  the 
triclinium  he  would  shrink  from  a  position,  fruitful 
of  humiliations  and  perplexities,  which  may  be 
realized  with  sufficient  accuracy  by  any  gentleman 
of  an  inquiring  turn,  who  will  do  his  best  to  enjoy 
a  long  repast  of  soups  and  hashes  whilst  he  lies 
on  a  sofa,  and  wears  a  dressing-gown  of  ample 
folds.  Under  the  most  favourable  circumstances,  a 
Roman  dinner  must  have  been  a  sloppy  affair,  even 
to  nicely  circumspect  feeders.  Consumed  hastily, 
in  an  hour  of  vexatious  and  untoward  incidents,  it 
must  have  been  less  advantageous  to  the  eater  than 
to  his  tailor.  It  is  creditable  to  the  good  sense 
and  natural  dignity  of  our  ancestors  that,  sepa- 
rating Latin  cookery  from  Latin  manners,  they 
always  sat  at  table  when  they  feasted  on  Roman 
fare. 

The  familiar  stories  of  their  gross  and  fantastic 
enjoyments  would  of  themselves  demonstrate  that 
the  voluptuaries  of  ancient  Rome  were  incapable  of 
the  finer  delights  of  the  table.  Whether  we  regard 
the  Augustan  spendthrifts,  or  the  later  bon-vivants 
of  the  Eastern  and  Western  empires,  it  may  be 
asserted  that  the  Roman  sensualist  was  devoid  of 
nice  perceptions.    Always  a  glutton,  he  was  never 


40  A   BOOK  ABOUT  THE   TABLE. 

an  epicure  in  the  modem  sense  of  the  term.  The 
dishes  with  which  he  gorged  himself,  appealed  to 
the  fancy  rather  than  the  palate ;  and  his  imagina- 
tion preferred  grotesque,  and  even  repulsive,  ideas 
to  pleasant  and  cheerful  associations.  Vedius  PoUio, 
who  could  not  relish  a  lamprey  unless  he  could 
imagine  it  to  have  been  fattened  on  human  flesh, 
was  a  type  of  the  many  Eoman  gourmands  whose 
appetite  was  quickened  by  cruel  fancies.  Like  the 
Australian  digger,  who  ate  bank-note  sandwiches, 
the  Roman  gastronomer  delighted  to  eat  and  drink 
money.  If  he  could  not  obtain,  or  was  too  amiable 
to  desire,  dishes  seasoned  with  human  agony,  he 
required  patellsB  of  inordinate  cost,  and  relished 
them  in  proportion  to  the  amount  of  labour  ex- 
pended on  their  preparation. 

Five  thousand  pounds  of  money  were  expended 
on  the  pie  which  made  ^sop,  the  player,  famous 
amongst  wasteful  feeders,  and  was  believed  by  the 
purchaser  to  have  been  made  of  birds  that  could 
imitate  human  voices.  Clodius,  the  son  of  this 
preposterous  connoisseur  of  bird-pies,  peppered 
his  drink  with  powdered  pearls,  and  had  no  gust 
for  the  daintiest  dish,  unless  his  cook  could  assure 
him  that  a  precious  stone  was  one  of  its  ingredients. 
The  imperial  inventor  of  lobster  rissoles  delighted 
in  salmagundis,  made  chiefly  of  the  tongues  and 
brains  of  small  birds  excellent  for  musical  voice 


MONET-EATEES.  41 

or  brilliance  of  plumage;  and  Septimias  Geta 
is  memorable  for  hotch-potches  whose  various 
meats,  selected  without  any  reference  to  their 
flavours,  bore  names  beginning  with  the  same 
letter  of  the  alphabet.  Sheer  wastefulness,  that 
squandered  on  the  whimsical  humours  of  a  single 
person  the  money  which,  with  discriminating  ex- 
penditure, might  have  brought  felicity  to  a  thousand 
intelligent  epicures,  reached  its  climax  in  the 
kitchens  of  the  Apicius  of  Augustan  Rome,  who 
surpassed  all  the  money-eaters  of  his  time  in  boot- 
less prodigality.  The  strongest  passion  of  this 
gormandizing  fool  was  for  ragouts  of  half-a- 
hundred  more  or  less  incongruous  elements ;  and 
when  he  had  weakened  his  intellect,  and  destroyed 
a  naturally  fine  digestion  by  gastronomic  absurdi- 
ties, he  put  a  violent  end  to  his  excesses  with  a  cup 
of  poison.  Having  squandered  on  his  belly,  in  the 
course  of  a  few  years,  something  more  than  a 
million  and  a  half  of  money  (English),  he  killed 
himself,  rather  than  prolong  existence  on  the 
wretched  eighty  or  hundred  thousand  pounds  that 
still  remained  in  his  exchequer. 

Were  it  needful  to  produce  other  biographical 
illustrations  against  the  epicureanism  prevalent  in 
the  wealthiest  circles  of  ancient  Bome,  we  should 
select  them  from  anecdotes  told  of  Vitellius,  who 
in  less  than  eight  months  made  away  with  seven 


42  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

millions  sterling  (English  money)  in  extravagances 
of  the  table,  and  encouraged  gluttons  to  prepare 
themselves  for  additional  courses  by  taking  emetics. 
Another  emperor,  famous  in  the  annals  of  gulosity, 
was  Tiberius,  who,  with  the  aid  of  his  courtly  phy- 
sicians, could  protract  a  single  banquet  for  thirty- 
six  hours., 

The  evidence  of  such  stories  accords  with  the 
more  precise  and  conclusive  testimony  of  the  extant 
receipts  for  the  choicest  dishes  of  the  Roman  glut- 
tons. There  is  no  want  of  information  respecting  the 
principles  and  details  of  the  cuisine  that,  brought  to 
perfection  in  ancient  Rome,  has  not  to  this  day  been 
altogether  superseded  by  a  better  cookery  in  some 
of  the  Latin  peoples.  A  perusal  of  Dr.  Lister's 
edition  of  the  pseudo-Apicius*s  cookery-book  will 
instruct  the  curious  scholar  respecting  the  charac- 
teristics of  the  food  most  grateful  to  the  Roman 
palate,  and  also  respecting  the  processes  for  pre- 
paring its  principal  varieties.  Those  who  are 
curious,  without  being  scholarly,  may  gather  a 
sufficient  supply  of  the  same  information  from 
Mr.  Coote's  "  Cuisine  Bourgeoise  of  Ancient 
Rome. ' 

Covering  a  period  of  some  three  hundred  years, 
that  began  in  the  days  of  the  Republic  and  closed  in 
the  time  subsequent  to  HeUogabalus,  the  **  De  Arte 


OLD  THINGS  AND  NEW.  43 

Coquinaria "  gives  us  precepts  followed  by  chefs  of 
a  date  long  anterior  to  the  compiler's  generation. 
The  choicest  receipts  of  distant  ages  appear  in  its 
records.  In  this  respect,  the  work  resembles  modern 
compilations  of  the  same  kind,  which  together  with 
rules  for  making  dishes,  popular  in  Tudor  times, 
contain  directions  for  producing  the  choicest  deli- 
cacies of  Ude  and  Francatelli.  The  dates,  at  which 
some  of  the  Apician  dishes  were  invented,  or  at 
least  enjoyed  a  high  reputation,  may  be  inferred 
from  the  names  of  famous  personages  referred  to 
by  the  titles  of  the  plats.  But  most  of  the  receipts 
a£ford  no  indication  of  the  decades  in  which  they 
were  composed.  The  entire  collection,  however, 
affords  an  equally  comprehensive  and  minute  pic- 
ture of  the  Eoman  cuisine,  when  Roman  luxury  was 
at  its  height.  The  compiler  is  unknown;  but  if 
he  was  not  some  great  man's  chef,  he  was  probably 
some  fashionable  gov/rmet  who  assumed,  for  his 
literary  purpose,  a  name  that  had  for  generations 
blazed  in  culinary  annals. 

It  would  only  weary  the  reader  to  burden  these 
pages  with  Apician  details,  which  the  curious  can 
readily  gather  for  themselves,  and  none  but  the 
curious  would  peruse  with  interest.  Nor  would  the 
ordinary  perusers  of  a  popular  work  be  thankful 
for  a   diversity  of  receipts  which  they  certainly 


44  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

would  not  desire  their  cooks  to  execute.  It  is 
enough  for  the  present  undertaking  to  call  atten- 
tion to  the  prominent  features  of  Roman  cookery, 
and  to  a  few  receipts  that  illustrate  its  leading  prin- 
ciples. 


45 


CHAPTER  IV. 

APICIAN   PEECEPTS. 

*'  From  these  receipts  we  may  acquire  some  idea  of  the  complicated 
and  heterogeneous  messes  which  formed  the  most  exquisite  deli- 
cacies of  a  Boman  table.  At  the  present  day,  nothing  can  be 
conceived  more  disgusting  than  many  of  these  dishes;  since  a 
yariety  of  ingredients  from  which  a  modem  would  shrink  with 
abhorrence,  were  cast  into  them  by  the  cooks  of  Borne  with  a  lavish 
hand.  Assafoetida,  rue,  &c,,  were  used  in  almost  every  high- 
seasoned  dish;  and  we  meet  repeatedly  with  the  extraordinary 
mixtures  of  oil  and  wine,  honey,  pepper,  and  the  putrid  distillation 
from  stinking  fish.  In  short,  the  Eon^an  cook  seems  to  have  gone 
in  direct  oppoeition  to  the  selection  which  the  poet  makes  Eve  use 
in  preparing  an  entertainment,  "  For,"  says  he,  "  she  so  contrived 
as  not  to  mix 

Tastes  not  well  joined,  inelegant,  but  bring 
Taste  after  taste,  upheld  with  kindliest  change." 
Vide  Eev.  Eichabd  Wabnek's  "  Antiquitates  Culinabije." 

"YTOTHING  can  be  more  liberal  and  satisfactory 
-^^  than  the  list  of  materials  employed  by  the 
Roman  chef.  Together  with  most  of  the  meats,  and 
several  kinds  of  the  poultry,  still  used  most  largely 
in  European  kitchens,  his  larder  contained  crea- 
tures now-a-days  neglected  as  distasteful,  if  not 
condemned  as  unclean.  Though  he  held  it  in  low 
esteem,  he  had  need  of  beef.  Wild  mutton,  veal, 
lamb,   kid,   and  venison   commanded    his   zealous 


46  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

attention ;  but  p9rk,  of  all  meats  the  most  accept- 
able to  the  ancient  epicures  of  the  sunny  South, 
he  could  not  regard  without  emotion,  or  mention 
without  enthusiasm. 

Tears  of  joyful  anticipation  rolled  down  his 
cheeks  when  the  fat  porker  dropped  dead  at  his 
feet ;  and,  as  he  wiped  from  the  prostrate  creature's 
lips  the  stains  of  the  sweet  intoxicating  drink 
which  had  induced  the  fatal  apoplexy,  he  smiled 
with  tender  exultation.  He  had  reason  to  love 
the  animal  which  afforded  him  materials  for  his 
daintiest  preparations.  His  varieties  of  porcine  plats 
are  almost  countless.  The  spit,  the  gridiron,  the 
frying-pan,  the  oven,  the  boiler,  and  the  stew-pan 
were  all  employed  by  turns  in  preparing  the  flesh 
which  was  the  passion  of  Roman  epicures,  and  to 
which  the  culinary  professors  could  impart  no  less 
than  eighty  different  flavours.  The  Romans  were 
consumers  of  pork-haggis  and  various  kinds  of 
pork  sausages.  But  the  Apician  cook  was  never 
prouder  of  himself  and  his  profession  than  when 
he  sniffed  the  fragrant  exhalations  of  a  small  baked 
pig  which  had  been  stuffed  with  a  compound  of 
thrushes,  beccaficos,  minced  "pluck,"  dates, 
onions,  snails,  mallows,  beets,  leeks,  celery, 
cabbage,  coriander  seeds,  pepper,  pine-nuts,  eggs 
and  garum.  His  hands  trembled  with  fine  emotion, 
as  he  made  a  deep  incision  down  the  porker's  back, 


BIBDS  OF  STRONG  FLAVOUR.  47 

and  poured  into  it  a  hot  mixture  of  pepper,  rue, 
garum,  sweet  wine,  honey  and  oil,  thickened  with 
frumenty. 

The  same  grossness  of  taste,  which  made  these 
epicures  of  a  hot  climate  prefer  pork  to  more 
delicate  meats,  is  seen  in  their  choice  of  four-footed 
game  and  birds.  The  hare,  whose  strong  flavour 
renders  it  barely  acceptable  to  the  more  fastidious 
palates  of  modern  connoisseurs,  was  prized  by  the 
Latin  hon-vivant  above  all  other  ground-game. 
The  goose  and  peacock  were  not  more  esteemed  at 
Augustan  tables  than  the  phcenicopteros  and  the 
parrot ;  and  in  the  sixth  book  of  his  Treatise  pseudo- 
Apicius  gives  a  receipt  for  creatures  that  he 
frankly  designates  "  stinking  birds"  (aves  hircosas), 
a  class  including  Ardean '  cranes  and  other  piscivo- 
rous fowl. 

The  time  has  now  arrived  for  us  to  sip  the  nasty 
compound  of  honey,  wine,  mucilage,  and  spice, 
with  which  the  luxurious  Roman  whetted  his 
appetite  and  prepared  his  palate  for  every  im- 
portant feast.  The  Conditum  Paradoxum,  as 
pseudo-Apicius  calls  it,  or  the  Fromulsis,  as  it 
is  more  commonly  termed,  has  always  been  a 
chief  diflBculty  with  modern  apologists  of  the 
Boman  cuisine.  Mr.  Coote,  who  grows  fervid 
about  the  excellences  of  a  sauce  made  chiefly  from 
the  putrid  intestines  of  fish,  is  significantly  silent 


48  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

concerning  the  introductory  sirup.  When  Lord 
Lytton,  in  the  "Last  Days  of  Pompeii,"  en- 
deavoured to  rouse  his  readers'  sympathy  for  the 
pleasures  of  a  Pompeian  supper,  he  coyly  misre- 
presented the  Promulsis  as  a  drink  "  of  diluted 
wine  sparingly  mixed  with  honey.'*  The  exactness 
of  the  Apician  receipt  for  the  preparation  of  "  the 
whet"  (I)  leaves  us  in  no  doubt  as  to  the  proportion 
of  honey  in  the  cloying  liquor,  which  was  com- 
pounded in  this  manner.  Six  pints  of  honey,  two 
pints  of  wine,  four  ounces  of  powdered  pepper, 
three  ounces  of  sweet  gum,  one  drachm  of  spike- 
nard leaves,  one  drachm  of  saffron,  and  five 
drachms  of  dried  dates  were  mixed  and  boiled  three 

• 

several  times.  It  does  not  appear  how  much  the 
three  boilings  reduced  the  compound.  Having 
been  thus  concocted,  the  mess  received  sixteen 
pints  of  wine,  when  it  was  regarded  as  a  choice 
preliminary  confection  for  an  elaborate  feast.  Six 
pints  of  honey  is  no  "  sparing"  proportion  of  sweet 
stuff  to  eighteen  pints  of  wine.  Certainly  the 
"  preparation"  would  not  dispose  a  modern  palate 
to  relish  the  following  delicacies.  Sooner  than 
begin  his  dinner  with  a  glass  of  such  a  fluid,  any 
epicure  of  the  Carlton  Club  would  attune  his  palate 
for  a  coming  dinner  with^  half  a  pint  of  treacle  and 
table-beer,  seasoned  with  all-spice. 
In  connection  with  the  heavily  sweetened  wine 


SWEET   WINE,    SWEETENED.  49 

of  the  Promulsis,  mention  may  be  here  made  of 
the  Roman  taste  for  wines  medicated  with  mawkish 
savours  that  would  utterly  destroy  the  fine  virtues 
of  the  best  vintaofe,  Rosatum  and  Violatium  were 
in  high  esteem  with  Apician  epicures.  The  former 
drink  was  made  thus.  Several  bags  (as  many  as 
possible)  of  dried  rose  petals  were  put  into  a  cask, 
and  covered  with  good  wine.  The  infusion  having 
stood  for  seven  days,  the  rose-leaves  were  firmly 
squeezed,  so  that  the  liquor  might  have  every 
drop  of  their  scented  juice.  Another  and  equally 
large  supply  of  dried  petals  was  then  put  into  the 
cask,  and  treated  in  the  same  way.  This  process 
was  repeated  yet  again ;  and  when  the  wine  had 
been  completely  loaded  with  roseate  essence,  the 
tincture  was  put  away  for  use  on  highly  festal 
occasions.  It  would  have  been  more  properly 
thrown   into   the    nearest   sewer.      Violatium    was 

« 

made  in  the  same  manner,  with  petals  of  violets 
instead  of  petals  of  roses.*  It  is  impossible  that 
people  who  enjoyed  such  preparations,  fit  only  for 
an  apothecary^s  shop,  could  appreciate  the  subtler 
excellences  of  the  fermented  grape. 

It  is  the  custom  of  the  champions  of  the  Roman 
cuisine  to  deplore  the  misfortune  that  we  endure  in 
the  disappearance  of  the  culinary  "  laser,"  and  in 
the   still  more  grievous  loss  of   the  process    for 

VOL.  I.  B 


50  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE, 

making  garum.  Mr,  Coote  is  touchingly  pathetic 
on  each  of  these  subjects.  Dr.  Lister  was  scarcely 
less  emotional.  Though  it  was  akin  to  the  growth 
from  which  we  derive  the  stinking  assafoetida,  the 
Cyrenaic  silphium,  or  laser,  yielded  a  juice  which, 
could  it  be  recovered,  would  be  found  inexpressibly 
delightful  to  the  taste  and  smell  of  modem  epicures. 
The  apologists  have  no  misgivings  on  this  point, 
because  the  Eoman  chefs  seized  every  occasion  for 
throwing  its  requisite  flavour  into  their  pottages, 
hashes,  Inince-patinsd,  sausages,  and  sauces.  How 
could  the  thing  so  delectable  to  palates  which 
relished  Promulsis  and  Rosatum,  have  been  other- 
wise than  highly  and  naturally  agreeable?  But 
prejudice  is  stubborn ;  and  men  who  have  fled  in 
fancy  from  the  "irruption  of  intolerable  smells," 
which  Mr.  Pallet*s  carving-knife  evoked  from  a 
certain  fowl  to  Peregrine  Pickle's  diversion  and 
disgust,  are  slow  to  believe  that  any  laserpitian 
spice  ever  possessed  a  natural  pleasantness.  Against 
the  apologists,  it  is  urged  that  the  very  way  in 
which  the  Romans  are  known  to  have  used  their 
favourite  herb,  declares  it  to  have  been  a  thing  of  a 
powerfully  pungent  savour  that  could  be  felt  and 
smelt  above  all  the  other  half-hundred  flavours 
requisite  for  the  more  elaborate  products  of  the 
Roman  cuisine.  Smollett  may  have  taken  a  too 
professional  view  of  the  subject.     His  judgment 


LASER  AND   GABUM.  51 

may  have  been  disturbed  by  his  medical  acquaint- 
ance with  an  abominably  noisome  extract.  He  may 
have  written  wildly  and  in  utter  ignorance.  But  it 
is  certain  that,  had  the  beloved  laser  been  a  spice  of 
delicate  virtues,  they  would  have  been  absolutely 
effectless  in  a  strongly  seasoned  dish,  compounded 
of  several  incongruous  meats  and  as  many  dis- 
cordant spices.  In  short,  the  general  characteristics 
of  the  cookery  discredit  the  particular  ingre- 
dient. 

To  pass  from  the  herb  of  which  the  modems  are 
said  to  know  nothing,  to  a  sauce  about  which  they 
certainly  know  a  good  deal.  The  Romans  had  many 
condiments,  more  or  less  acceptable  to  their  palates 
and  hurtful  to  their  digestions ;  but  garum — or 
liquamen,  as  the  same  preparation  was  also  termed 
— was  the  seasoning  most  largely  used  by  the 
Apician  chefs,  and  most  enthusiastically  extolled  by 
Apician  epicures.  Amphor©,  bearing  the  almost 
sacred  inscription  of  "  Liquamen  Optimum,"  have 
been  exhumed  at  Pompeii,  the  pleasant  watering- 
place  where  the  gourmands  of  the  capital  revived 
their  jaded  appetites  with  the  sea-breeze.  At  home, 
no  banquet  was  approved  unless  garum  dominated 
the  flavours  of  most  of  the  dishes.  It  was  used  in 
soups  and  stews,  in  ragouts  and  sausages,  in  force- 
meats and  salmagundis  of  fishes.    Improving  most 

E  2 


52  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

materials,  and  agreeing  witli  all,  it  was  poured 
liberally  on  flesh,  fish,  game,  and  fowl,  and 
hundreds  of  messes,  each  of  which  contained  from 
a  dozen  to  fifty  ingredients.  When  he  is  in  doubt 
the  young  whist-player  plays  a  trump,  if  he  can. 
In  moments  of  uncertainty  the  Roman  cook  used 
the  never-absent  garum.  Oil  was  silver,  liquamen 
was  gold.  The  rich  and  luxurious  used  the  garum 
which  was  termed  emphatically  "  optimum."  There 
were  inferior  kinds  of  the  sauce  for  the  poor  and 
thrifty. 

This  exquisite  condiment  was  obtained  from  the 
intestines,  gills,  and  blood  of  fishes,  great  and 
small,  stirred  together  with  salt,  and  exposed  in 
an  open  vat  to  the  sun,  until  the  compound  was 
putrid.  Nothing  is  known  as  to  the  proportions  of 
the  several  piscine  ingredients ;  but  whilst  small 
fishes  were  thrown  whole  into  the  vessel,  the  larger 
fishes — such  as  tunny,  sturgeon,  and  mackerel 
— contributed  nothing  to  the  mess,  save  their  gills, 
internal  parts,  and  juices.  When  putrefaction  had 
done  its  work,  wine  and  spice-herbs  were  added  to 
the  liquescent  garbage.  Finally,  the  liquor  of  this 
loathsome  compound  was  strained,  and  sent  in 
amphorsB  from  Greece  to  the  Roman  market.  Some- 
thing like  this  sauce  might  doubtless  be  obtained  by 
an  artful  treatment  of  fetid  catsup,  and  caviare,  so 
far  gone  to  the  bad   that   the  few   and   the   many 


A  LURKING  MYSTERY.  53 

would  agree  in  their  estimate  of  its  virtues.  Any- 
how, it  was  darksome,  saltish,  biting,  and  beastly. 
But  the  ingenious  apologists,  already  alluded  to, 
regard  liquamen  fondly.  Admitting  the  repulsive- 
ness  of  the  raw  materials,  and  also  the  nauseating 
character  of  the  sadly  imperfect  accounts  of  its 
manufacture,  they  are  sure  that,  if  we  knew  the 
whole  process,  there  would  be  an  end  to  the  illiberal 
prejudice  against  the  appetizing  fluid.  The  Romans 
(runs  the  apology)  were  too  elegant  epicures  to  like 
anything  that  was  not  good;  for  centuries  the 
Romans  prized  liquamen  above  all  sauces ;  ergo 
liquamen  was  the  best  of  piquant  sauces,  and  would 
be  in  keen  demand  at  our  Pall  Mall  clubs,  if  we 
could  only  recover  the  secret  of  making  it  properly. 
"  There  lurks  a  mystery,"  £ays  Mr.  Coote,  •*  in  the 
details  handed  down  to  us  of  its  mode  of  prepara- 
tion."    The    daring    experimentalist*    who    shall 

•  "  This  brings  us/*  Mr.  Coote  observes  with  mnch  fine  feeling, 
**  to  the  real  problem  of  Boman  cookery,  the  flavour  imported  by 
that  confection,*'  (i.e.,  garam),  "  to  the  sauces  with  which  it  inter- 
communicated. Looking  at  this  from  the  point  of  view  of  the 
kitchen,  it  is  no  other  than  a  grave  aBsthetical  question.  If  we  can 
solve  it  in  any  way,  we  shall  penetrate  to  the  bottom  of  the  Boman 
system.  Without  experiments,  which  will  probably  never  be  made, 
though  Soyer  vehemently  desired  them,  we  know  so  *much  as  this, 
that  the  material9  of  the  zest  were  fish,  that  salt  was  an  adjunct, 
and  that  fermentation  in  the  sun  was  the  means  of  effecting  a  union 
more  or  less  chemical  between  these  well  pronounced  elements."— 
Vide  CooTs's  '*  Cuisn^B  Bousgeoise  oi  Anciejni  Bomb." 


54  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

apprehend  and  penetrate  this  lurking  mystery,  will 
reUeve  Apician  cookery  of  unmerited  opprobrium, 
and  raise  the  modern  to  the  level  of  the  ancient 
table. 

Prejudice  may  cause  men  to  condemn  what  is 
good.  It  may  also  make  them  admire  what  is  bad. 
And  of  the  prejudice  which  disposes  the  mind  to 
discover  nothing  but  goodness  in  things  that  are 
faulty,  we  cannot  acquit  the  critics,  who  declare 
that  a  sauce  must  have  been  excellent  because  it 
was  highly  esteemed  by  the  Apician  epicures,  who 
could  relish  oysters,  properly  dressed  with  pepper 
and  vinegar,  and  at  the  same  time  serve  them  with 
honey.*  In  another  Chapter  we  shall  see  how  our 
feudal  forefathers,  imitating  the  old  Romans  in  this 
last  particular,  put  sugar  on  their  oysters — an 
atrocity  that  will  seem  almost  incredible  to  lovers 
of  the  delicate  "  native !" 

No  impartial  inquirer  can  peruse    the  Apician 

*  The  Apician  precepts  for  treating  oysters  are  significant.  Here 
is  an  atrocious  mixture  for  the  improvement  of  our  *'  uatiyes,"  which 
the  Roman  prized  less  for  their  delicacy  of  flavour  than  out  of 
regard  to  the  difficulty  of  procuring  them:  "Pepper,  lovage  of 
Lombardy,  parsley,  dry  mint,  spikenard  leaves,  Indian  spikenard 
leaves,  cumin  (in  larger  quantity),  honey,  vinegar,  and  liquamen." 
Apicius,  the  cook,  gives  another  receipt  for  a  sauce  for  oysters  in 
these  words:  "Piper,  ligusticum,  ovi  vitellum,  acetum,  liquamen, 
oleum  et  vinum,  si  volueris  et  mel  addes." 


THE   FUNCTIONS   OP   SAUCES.  55 

code,  without  seeing  that  the  Romans  were  igno- 
rant of  the  first  principles  which  should  always 
control  the  manufacture  and  administration  of  con- 
diments. Not  that  all  their  sauces  were  altogether 
faulty.  On  the  contrary,  they  had  a  few  prepara- 
tions that  would  be  acceptable  to  palates  of  the 
present  time.  Oxyporon,*  the  Apician  sharp-sauce, 
for  instance,  was  no  contemptible  zest,  though  it 
contained  a  large  proportion  of  so  coarse  a  spice  as 
ginger.  But  when  he  had  a  supply  of  fairly  good 
Bauces,  the  Apician  chef,  instead  of  relying  on 
any  one  of  them,  destroyed  their  special  eflBcacy,. 
by  mixing  them  with  half-a-dozen  grosser  prepara- 
tions. 

At  the  present  date,  it  will  not  be  questioned 
that  the  four  chief  functions  of  sauces  are : — 1 .  To 
quicken  the  palate  to  high  sensibility  of  the  dis- 
tinctive flavour  of  material.  2.  To  enhance  the 
said  flavour.  3.  To  produce  a  new  flavour,  other- 
wise unattainable,  by  the  combination  of  the  sauce's 
virtues  with  the  distinctive  savour  of  the  material. 

*  Here  is  the  receipt  for  oxyporon :  Take  two  onnoes  of  camin, 
one  ounce  of  ginger,  one  oance  of  green  rue,  six  scrsples  of  salt- 
petre, twelye  scmples  of  &ne  dates,  one  ounce  of  pepper,  nine 
ounces  of  honey.  Beat  and  mix  with  yinegar.  This  being  a  favour- 
able example,  the  reader  will  know  what  to  think  of  the  unfavourable 
specimens,  of  Boman  sauces.  As  Bobson,  the  comedian,  used  to 
say  of  thin  claret,  oxyporon  might  go  fairly  well  with  a  salad,  in 
the  absence  of  every  kind  of  proper  dressing. 


56  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

4.  To  supply  a  natural  deficiency  in  the  texture  of 
a  material,  as  when  a  cleverly  concocted  sauce  gives 
juiciness  and  lubricity  to  a  dry,  rough-grained 
viand.  Of  course,  at  seasons  of  privation  and 
grievous  diflSculty,  it  devolves  on  the  chef  to  dis- 
guise the  evil  qualities  of  repulsive  material,  or 
impart  sapidity  to  insipid  meats.  The  first  Napo- 
leon's cook  signalized  himself  in  this  dismal  depart- 
ment of  his  art  during  the  retreat  from  Moscow. 
The  late  siege  of  Paris  tried  the  inventiveness  of 
cooks  in  the  same  field  of  deception.  In  the 
kitchens,  also,  of  the  cheap  and  rather  nasty 
dining-places  of  the  Palais  Royal,  the  cook's  first 
object  is  to  hide  the  miserable  deficiencies  of  his 
material  with  sauces  that  confuse  whilst  they  tickle 
the  palate.  But,  occasions  of  emergency  excepted, 
such  artifice  is  indefensible.  The  sauce  that 
kills  a  fine  natural  flavour,  without  utilizing 
it  nobly,  is  nothing  else  than  a  murderous 
device. 

That  the  Roman  epicures  were  utterly  ignorant 
of  these  axioms  is  seen  in  their  barbaric  messes  of 
half  a  hundred  multifarious  and  hostile  ingredients. 
In  their  isicia  and  patinas  they  combined  meats 
which,  for  flavour's  sake,  should  be  kept  separate ; 
and  having  thus  brought  several  incongruous 
materials  into  unnatural  juxtaposition,  they  sea- 
soned them  with  an  even   larger  number  of    dis- 


ONE    REDEEMING  VIETUB.  57 

cordant  additaments ;  sweet  and  acidulous,  heating 
and  cooling,  rough  and  lubricous,  saline  and  mu- 
cilaginous. In  fact,  their  highly  artificial  cuisine 
was  remarkable  chiefly  for  its  incessant  and  clumsy 
employment  of  artifices  to  disguise  flavour  and 
paralyze  the  taste.  Instead  of  cherishing  and 
emphasizing  deUcate  flavours,  the  Roman  chefs 
misdirected  industry  smothered  them. 

In  one  respect  the  competent  chef  of  ancient 
Home  was  above  praise.  If  the  succulency  of  his 
plats  was  excessive,  and  if  their  seasonings  were 
preposterous,  no  one  can  deny  them  to  have  been 
exquisitely  tender.  The  Eoman  epicure's  tooth  was 
more  fastidious  than  his  palate.  He  could  rehsh 
what  was  nasty,  but  he  revolted  against  what  was 
tough.  Woe  and  stripes,  if  not  instant  death, 
befell  the  cuhnary  slave  who  sent  a  hard  or  leathery 
viand  to  a  gastronomic  senator's  table.  He  was 
lucky  if  he  was  not  dragged  summarily  from  his 
kitchen  to  the  festal  chamber,  and  flogged  in 
the  presence  of  the  furious  Amphitryon  and  the 
guests  whom  he  had  wronged  so  grievously.  To 
satisfy  this  paramount  demand  for  tenderness,  the 
chef  was  an  unsparing  user  of  the  mincing-knife, 
pestle,  and  stew-pan.  He  chopped  and  diced,  and 
dissected  infinitesimally  the  materials  of  which  his 
isicia^  and  patinas,  and  minutalia  were  compounded. 
Having  done  his  best  with  the  knife  and  the  mincing- 


68  A   BOOK  ABOUT  THE   TABLE. 

board,  lie  went  to  work  with  the  pestle  and  mortar, 
and  pounded  the  muscle  of  fish,  flesh,  and  fowl 
into  a  delicate  pulp,  that  eventually  appeared  on 
the  table,  in  lightly  fried  or  boiled  portions.  The 
Latin  epicure's  delight  in  plates  of  dormice  was 
chiefly  due  to  the  exquisite  tenderness  of  the  insipid 
flesh.  Potted  meat  comes  to  us  through  the 
mediaeval  kitchens  from  imperial  Rome.  Our 
"  minces  "  are  the  lineal  descendants  of  the  dishes 
which  the  Romans  termed  "  minutalia,"  out  of 
regard  to  the  minute  dissection  of  the  viands  em- 
ployed for  their  composition. 

The  Roman  cuisine,  be  it  also  observed,  had  a 
vegetable  basis.  The  numerous  pottages  in  which 
the  Latin  epicures  delighted  were  made  chiefly  of 
prepared  grain  and  pot-herbs,  seasoned  with  wine 
and  sauces  to  the  taste.  Barley,  wheat,  rice,  peas, 
beans,  gourds,  were  all  used  for  the  manufacture  of 
the  highly  nutritive  soups,  which  were  often  en- 
riched with  pulp  of  pounded  meat,  and  morsels  of 
tenderly  stewed  flesh,  but  never  failed  to  exhibit 
their  vegetable  foundation.  Often  these  porridges 
were  sweetened  with  honey,  and  sharpened  with 
liquamen.  Some  of  the  lighter  Roman  pottages  re- 
sembled closely  the  thin  vegetable  soups  of  the 
modern  Lenten  table.  But  none  of  them  are  com- 
parable with  the  clear  gravy  soups  of  the  nineteenth 
century.      The  Roman  cared  little  for  the  pure 


THE   PATINA  APIOIANA. 


59 


flavour  of  meat-juice,  though  he  employed  it 
sparingly  in  his  meretricious  sauces.  A  soup, 
chiefly  excellent  for  preserving  the  distinctive  taste 
of  the  natural  viand,  was  no  delicacy  to  his  undis- 
ceming  palate. 

Relishing  his  joints  of  baked  and  boiled  meat,  and 
his  joints  cooked  by  both  processes,  his  broiled 
coUops  served  with  liquamen  and  spices,  and  large 
birds  cooked  whole,  the  Boman  gourmand  was 
especially  particular  about  his  "made  dishes," 
consisting  chiefly  of  .minced  and  pounded  meats. 
These  isicia,  patinas,  and  minutalia  were  sometimes 
made  of  a  dozen  or  more  different  species  of  flesh ; 
but  for  the  simplest  plats  a  single  meat  and  numer- 
ous seasonings  were  suflBcient.  Meat  or  corn 
paste  entered  into  the  composition  of  several  of 
them. 

The  Patina  Apiciana,  one  of  the  costliest  and 
most  elegant  of  these  preparations,  was  an  achieve- 
ment that  doubtless  made  its  inventor  famous  in  the 
kitchens  of  his  period.  To  produce  this  dainty,  the 
chef  took  gobbets  of  stewed  sow's  udder,  flesh  of 
several  fishes,  meat  of  chickens  and  other  young 
things,  a  score  or  so  beccaficoes,  as  many  stewed 
breasts  of  thrushes,  and  whatever  other  meats  ap- 
peared to  him  to  be  especially  good  {et  qucecunque 
optima  fuerint.)      The    beccaficoes    excepted,    he 


60  A   BOOK   ABOUT   THE    TABLE. 

minced  these  ingredients  minutely.  His  next  care 
was  to  mix  raw  eggs  with  oil,  season  the  mixture 
with  triturated  pepper  and  lovage,  and  pour  liqua- 
men,  oil,  wine,  and  sweet  wine  into  it.  This  com- 
pound having  been  boiled  and  thickened  with 
frumenty,  it  received  the  minced  stuff  and  becca- 
ficoes.  The  entire  composition  having  been  boiled 
thoroughly,  it  was  poured  upon  layers  of  peppered 
pine-apple,  each  layer  of  the  stew-laden  fruit 
being  divided  from  the  layer  above  it  by  a  thin 
wafer  biscuit.  A  biscuit  of  the  same  kind  was 
broken  into  small  pieces  and  sprinkled  on  the  top 
layer,  which  was  also  lightly  peppered.  The  only 
one  of  the  several  ingredients  of  a  feaster's  portion 
of  this  dish  that  retained  its  natural  taste,  or  had 
any  distinctive  flavour,  was  the  beccafico,  which  was 
of  course  a  delicious  surprise. 

Haggis,  as  the  Scotch  term  it,  was  a  favourite 
preparation  with  Romans ;  but,  instead  of  mincing 
the  flesh  used  for  this  dish,  they  as  often  as  not 
brayed  it  in  a  mortar,  with  liquamen  and  seasonings, 
till  it  became  a  soft  pulp.  The  usual  farinaceous 
ingredient  of  the  Eoman  haggis  was  frumenty; 
but  often  no  grain  was  employed.  The  Apician 
pork-haggis — esteemed  above  all  other  compositions 
of  the  same  kind — was  a  boiled  pig*s  stomach  filled 
with  fry  and  brain,  raw  eggs,  and  pine-apple,  beaten 


MINCED   CHICKEN.  61 

into  a  pulp,  and  treated  with  the  never  absent  sauces 
and  seasonings. 

The  same  epicures  showed  their  nice  appreciation 
of  the  chicken's  delicate  flavour  in  the  following 
process.  Having  boned  the  fowl,  they  first  minced 
the  flesh,  and  then  brayed  it  with  liquamen  in  a 
mortar  to  a  pulp.  Farinaceous  ingredients  were 
added  ;  and  when  the  composition  had  been  spiced 
with  pepper  and  other  strong  condiments,  it  was 
boiled  or  fried,  and  sent  to  table  in  wine-sauce. 
Any  insipid  meat,  or  piece  of  pliant  leather  would 
have  done  as  well  for  this  mess,  as  the  tender  and 
tasteful  flesh  of  a  pullet. 

The  Romans  were  more  reasonable  in  their  treat- 
ment of  vegetables,  though  they  used  the  mincing 
knife  far  too  freely  in  preparing  them.  Great  were 
their  pains  to  impart  a  more  than  natural  greenness 
to  their  pot-herbs :  a  laudable  aim,  though,  in 
achieving  it,  they  often  sacrificed  flavour  to  colour 
by  a  too  liberal  employment  of  nitre.  "  Omne 
olus,"  says  the  author  of  the  •  De  Arte 
Coquinaria,'  "  smarjagdinum  fiet,  si  cum  nitro  co- 
quatur." 

Respecting  the  sweetmeats  and  prepared  fruits 
of  the  Roman  table,  there  is  no  need  to  speak  fully 
in  the  present  Chapter.  It  may,  however,  be  re- 
marked that  the  confectioners  and  other  culinary 
specialists  of  ancient  Rome  were  no  less  ingenious 


62  A  B00£  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

and  fantastic  than  the  general  practitioners  of 
cookery.  Enough  for  the  present  of  the  Apician 
method,  to  which  it  will  be  necessary  to  refer  in 
subsequent  chapters  for  purposes  of  illustration 
and  comparison. 


63 


CHAPTER  V. 


THE  FORME   OF  CURT. 


« Many  of  the  receipts  contained  in  the  '  Forme  of  Cnry/  are 
indeed,  as  nnintelligible  to  a  modem,  as  the  hieroglyphics  of  an 
Egyptian  pillar ;  bnt  sach  as  we  do  nnderstand,  are  not  calcalated 
to  prejudice  us  in  favour  of  the  culinary  art  of  the  fourteenth  century. 
The  combination  of  such  a  variety  of  articles  in  the  formation  of  one 
dish  would  produce  an  effect  very  unpleasant  to  a  palate  of  this  day, 
and  the  quantity  of  hot  spices  would  now  be  relished  only  by  those 
most  accustomed  to  the  high-seasoned  dishes  of  the  East  and  West 
Indies."— Fide    Waknee's   Introduction   to   the  ."  Antiquitadbs 

GULINA&IAS." 

rpHB  cuisine,  at  which  we  have  been  glancing, 
-■-  was  the  cookery  which  the  Romans  practised 
at  home  and  conveyed  to  their  remotest  provinces. 
For  the  benefits  thus  extended  to  them,  the  im- 
perial dependencies  paid  with  materials  for  the 
development  of  gastronomy  in  the  luxurious  metro- 
polis^ Whilst  she  procured  liquamen  from  Greece, 
and  her  choicest  spices  from  Asia,  Rome  obtained 
her  fattest  and  juiciest  oysters  in  the  Northern 
Island  whose  aborigines  she  had  taught  to  make 
soups  and  ragouts,  i.e.,  dishes  of  "  rare  gout.'^ 

A  system  that  took  root  and  flourished  in  what- 
ever soil  it  was  planted,  this  cookery  survived  the 


64  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

power  which  carried  it  to  every  region  of  the 
Roman  world.  Its  precepts  were  obeyed  by  races 
ignorant  of  its  history,  and  by  generations  to 
whom  the  very  name  of  its  originators  was  un- 
known. Alike  acceptable  to  Celt  and  Teuton,  it 
gratified  the  primaBval  inhabitants  of  Northern  Gaul 
and  their  Germanic  conquerors.  The  equally 
daring  and  pliant  Scandinavians,  who  assumed  the 
name  and  customs  of  the  Franks,  found  it  on  their 
adopted  soil,  and  with  a  fine  superiority  to  preju- 
dice they  acquired  a  taste  for  •  Latin  dishes,  whilst 
they  learnt  to  speak  a  variety  of  the  Latin  tongue. 

Of  course  this  marvellous  difi'usion  of  Latin 
gastronomy  was  not  effected  with  uniform  ease  and 
quickness.  It  must  have  stirred  local  jealousies, 
and  encountered  opposition  in  rude  peoples  wedded 
to  their  less  troublesome  modes  of  preparing  food. 
Just  as  our  ancestors  of  a  later  period  stubbornly 
resisted  the  introduction  of  Justinian  law,  and  with 
suspicious  jealousy  limited  its  operation  to  "  some 
particular  cases  and  some  particular  courts,"  when 
they  had  reluctantly  submitted  to  its  requiregients 
"  on  account  of  some  peculiar  propriety,"  it  must 
have  been  that  Apician  law  found  contemptuous 
deriders  and  resolute  opponents  amongst  the  Celtic 
and  German  communities  of  Roman  Britain.  But 
slowly  undermining  obstacles  which  she  could  not 
carry  by  coups  de  main^  Latin  cookery  in  course 


NOEMAN   FARE.  '6& 

of  time  soothing  the  fretful  animosities  of  the 
Briton,  and  warming  the  blood  of  the  sluggisli 
Teuton,  became  equally  dear  to  both  elements  of 
the  populace.  She  may  have  languished  on  thu 
soil  after  the  Boman  retiremeort.  She  may  have 
pined  for  want  of  competent  professors  and  intelli- 
gent patrons.  She  may  have  subsequently  derived 
a  sorely  needed  stimulus  from  the  luxurious  tastes 
of  the  Norman  conquerors.  But  it  is  absurd  to 
suppose  that  she  was  powerless  to  retain  the  hearts 
which  she  had  won  completely;  and  that  the  with*- 
drawal  of  the  Southern  legions  was  a  signal  for 
her  ignominious  ejectment  from  the  thousands  of 
kitchens  which  had  for  generations  submitted  to 
her  genial  sway,  and  from  the  thousands  ^f  homds 
which  depended  upon  her  for  their  chief  enjoyment^ 
if  not  for  their  actual  sustenance. 

The  fare  which  had  nourished  the  Norman  iu 
France  was  fare  of  ^oman  inventioo,  and  in  its 
chief  principles  and  the  majority  of  its  details  was 
the  same  good  cheer  that  had  for  centuries  smoked 
on  Saxon  boards.     Had  the  case  been  otherwise,  the 

ff 

Conqueror  would  perhaps  have  endeavoured  to  force 
his  food  as  well  as  his  language  down  the  threats  <]ft 
the  conquered  people.  But  circumstances  affordeji 
him  neither  pretext  nor  opportunity  for  such  a  display 
of  insolence.  Though  he  might  deride  the  SajKcm 
menus  for  their  wai:it  of  tastefuli^ess  and  .ysi^Xj^ 

VOL.  I.  ^ 


66  A   BOOK   ABOUT   THE   TABLE. 

and  scorn  the  Saxon  cooks  for  their  unskilfulness, 
he  could  not  deny  that  the  ordinary  broths,  brewets, 
and  hashes  of  the  subjugated  Angles  were  identical 
in  material,  consistency,  and  seasoning  with  the 
common  pottages,  stews,  and  hotchpots  of  his  own 
people. 

Norman  influence  on  our  mediaeval  cookery  has 
been  greatly  exaggerated  by  the  several  romantic 
writers  and  antiquaries  who  have  too  hastily  argued 
from  insufficient  data  that  all  dishes,  bearing  names 
of  Norman- French  etymology,  were  things  of  Norman 
invention.  Because  the  French  intruders  distin- 
guished half-a-dozen  meats  by  Norman  names,  it 
has  been  inferred  that  the  viands  were  peculiar  to 
the  people  who  thus  styled  them  with  words  of 
Latin  derivation.  The  misleading  teachers  have 
gone  yet  further.  Observing  that,  whilst  the  dead 
meats  were  called  by  French  names  at  French 
tables,  the  living  animals  were  known  to  the  Saxons 
by  Saxon  names,  they  have  argued  that,  whilst  the 
Normans  w^re  the  sole  eaters  of  the  meats,  the 
Saxons  were  the  only  tenders  of  the  animals.  Saxon 
serfs  drove  oxen,  in  order  that  'Norman  gentry 
might  have  beef.  The  flesh  of  calves  was  only  seen 
on  the  tables  where  it  bore  a  French  designation. 
The  Norman  nobles  ate  pork  at  their  pleasure;  it 
was  enough  for  Saxon  slaves  to  be  swine-herds. 

Sir  Walter  Scott  was  not  the  originator  of  this 


MORE. STRANGE  THAN  THUB.  67 

foolish  theory ;  but  in  a  careless  moment  he  adopted 
it  in  a  passage  remembered  by  every  reader  of 
"  Ivanhoe."  After  remarking  to  Gurth,  the  dull 
swine-herd,  that  swine  are  Saxons  during  life,  and 
Normans  when  they  have  passed  through  the 
butcher's  hands,  Wamba,  the  Saxon  jester  of  a 
Saxon  household,  explains  his  miserable  witticism 
step  by  step.  **  And  pork,  I  think,  is  good  Norman- 
French,"  the  wit  observes  to  the  witless  serf;  "and 
so  when  the  brute  lives,  and  is  in  the  charge  of  a 
Saxon  slave,  she  goes  by  her-  Saxon  name ;  but 
becomes  a  Norman,  and  is  called  pork,  when  she 
is  carried  to  the  castle-hall  to  feast  among  the 
nobles  :  what  dost  thou  think  of  this,  friend  Gurth, 
ha  ?"  Gurth  admits  it  to  be  "  too  true  doctrine," 
though  coming  from  a  fool's  mouth.  Encouraged 
by  his  comrade's  approval,  Wamba  continues, 
"  Nay,  I  can  tell  you  more ;  there  is  old  Alderman 
Ox  continues  to  hold  his  Saxon  epithet  while  he  is 
under  the  charge  of  serfs  and  bondsmen  such  as 
thou,  but  becomes  beef,  a  fiery  French  gallant, 
when  he  arrives  before  the  worshipful  jaws  that  are 
destined  to  consume  him.  Mynheer  Calf,  too, 
becomes  Monsieur  de  Veau  in  the  like  manner :  he 
is  a  Saxon  when  he  requires  tendance,  and  takes  a 
Norman  name  when  he  becomes  matter  of  enjoy- 
ment."     Again   the   Saxon   Gurth   sees   his   com- 

F  2 


<)8  k   BOOK   ABOCJT   THE   TABLE. 

»paHior«*8  "  points,"  and  assents  to  the  smart  talker's 
■**  too  true  doctrine." 

"Perhaps  Wamba's  knowledge  of  Norman-French 
is  not  inappropriate  to  a  jester,  whose  business  it 
-was  to  observe  social  fashions  and  turn  them  to 
•fun.  The  Saxon  fool — albeit  the  fool  of  a  Saxon 
lord,  who  smarted  under  the  insolence  and  detested 
jfche  ways  of  the  French  intruders — may  not  be  wise 
in  Norman  matters,  beyond  the  requirements  of  his 
-vocation.  But  it  is  strange  that  stupid  Gurth,  the 
Saxon  swine-herd  of  the  Saxon  proprietor,  should 
have  known  enough  Norman  -  French  to  catch 
Wamba's  philological  points.  Whence  oame  this 
iamiliarity  with  Norman  terms  to  the  stupid  serf 
who,  for  fear  of  a  flogging,  would  not  have  dared  to 
jMtter  one  of  them  in  hia  master's  hearing?  And 
how  came  he  to  approve  so  cordially  the  fool'is 
assertion  that,  on  becoming  matters  of  enjoyment, 
ox-flesh,  calf's-flesh,  and  swine's-flesh  were  knawn 
only  by  Norman  words  ?  Dullard  though  he  was, 
he  must  have  known  that  swine's-flesh  was  con- 
sumed daily  at  the  board  of  his  irascible  lord,  who 
would  have  flushed  with^rage  and  sworn  terribly  on 
hearing  any  Saxon  guest  call  it  "pork."  Gurth, 
we  may  be  sure,  had  personal  experience  of  the 
flavour  of  swine's-flesh  4  and  Wamba  often  received 
a  cut  of  swine's  brawn  in  payment  for  a  saucy 
speed).      Both   of  them   knew    that   ox-flesh   and 


A   WHIPPING   FOR   WAMBAl  6^ 

calfs-flesh   were    commonly   served    uochB^    Sftxod 
names  to  their  masters'  friends. 

To  argue  that  the  Saxons  never  ate  bread 
because  the  Normans  called  it  by  a  French  name  ; 
oi'  to  insist  that  the  Saxons  were  no  equestrians 
beca;use  cheval  is  French  for  a  horse,  and  the 
Xorman  knights  were  chivalric  persons,  would  not 
be-  nrrore  absurd  than  to  iafer  from  the  Norman 
names  of  meats  and  dishes  that  the  same  viands 
never  smoked  on  the  tables  of  the  vanquished  race. 
Indeed,  were  it  not  for  Scott's- name,  and  the  results 
of  his  influence,  we  woiiM  give  neither  consideration 
nor  ridicule  to  the  arguments  against  Saxont 
caokery,  that  depend  altogether  on  a  hasty  survey 
of  the  nomenclature  of  the  Anglo-Norman  cuisine- 
But,  strangely  enough,  the  flimsiest  page  of  a 
charming  novel  has  been  mistaken  for  good  history, 
and  placed  in  books  of  serious  instruction.  The 
words  put  (be  it  remembered,  in  justice  to  the 
great  novelist)  into  the  lips  of  a  merry  fool  have 
been  accepted  at  Gurth's  valuation  by  men  who 
were  scribes  instead  of  swineherds.     And  havinor 

CD 

thus  adopted  as  "  but  too  true  doctrine"  what  they 
should  have  only  smiled  at  as  a  wild  suggestion,  iher 
solemn  reproducers  of  a  piquant  blunder  assure  our 
studious  children  that  the  Saxons  of  the  twelfth 
century  were  clearly  no  eaters  of  swine's  flesh, 
because  the  Normaas  called  it  "  pork*'* 


70  A   BOOK   ABOUT   THE   TABLE. 

Oar  sources  of  information  respecting  the  cookery 
of  our  forefathers,  from  the  Norman  conquest  to  the 
Reformation,  are  various  and  abundant.  They  are, 
moreover,  so  precise  that  no  uncertainty  covers  any 
greatly  important  question  about  the  English  cuisine 
during  this  long  period.  They  comprise  collections 
of  receipts,  menus  of  famous  feasts,  admonitions  to 
culinary  apprentices,  hints  to  gentle  servitors,  cere- 
monious orders  for  the  table,  and  lists  of  the 
materials  consumed  at  particular  banquets.  Some 
of  the  older  and  more  important  of  these  multi- 
farious rules  and  records  may  be  found  in  Warner's 
"  Antiquitates  Culinariae,"  that,  together  with 
curious  tracts,  and  some  illustrative  notes  of  con- 
siderable value,  contains  the  *' Forme  of  Cury,"  which 
the  Reverend  Samuel  Pegge  edited  with  a  suflScient 
glossary,  in  1780,  eleven  years  before  the  appearance 
of  the  Reverend  Richard  Warner's  large  and  more  . 
ambitious  publication. 

Compiled  in  days  when  women  practised  medicine, 
and  cookery  was  an  art  regularly  followed  for 
honour  and  profit  by  reverend  physicians  of  the 
sterner  sex,  the  **  Forme  of  Cury"  was  produced  by 
the  principal  cooks  of  that  **best  and  royalest 
viander  of  all  Christian  kings,"  Richard  the  Second. 
The  concise  language  of  an  old  manuscript  certifies 
that  these  compilers  were  "  the  c/i^/ maister  cokes  of 
Kjng  Richard,"  and  that  their  literary  work  was 


KITCHEN   PHTSIC.  71 

done  "  by  assent  and  argument  of  maisters  of 
phisik  and  philosophie  that  dwellid  in  his  court." 
The  former  of  which  announcements  indicates  a 
Norman  source  for  the  familiar  French  title  of  a 
supreme  cook,  whilst  the  latter  furnishes  evidence 
of  the  close  connection  of  the  culinary  and  medical 
arts  in  feudal  times.  If  our  old  surgeons  were 
barbers,  our  ancient  physicians  were  cooks.  Nor 
need  the  college  in  Trafalgar  Square  blush  to 
acknowledge  that  the  mediaBval  doctors  of  the 
highest  professional  quality  and  status  concerned 
themselves  with  the  principles  and  details  of  an  art 
which,  if  not  an  actual  department  of  medicine,  is  so 
needful  for  health,  and  so  nearly  related  to  remedial 
science,  that  no  sagacious  physician  can  affect  to 
disdain,  or  afford  to  neglect  it. 

Like  all  works  of  its  kind,  this  mediaeval  "  Guide 
for  Cooks  and  Housewives"  gives  the  results  of 
several  ages  of  culinary  enterprise.  Compiled  some 
three  hundred  and  twenty-five  years  after  the  Con- 
quest, it  contains  receipts  for  dishes  that  were 
novelties  in  the  days  of  the  Plantagenets,  and  re- 
ceipts for  hashes  that  smoked  on  the  table  of  the 
Conqueror.  It  gives  directions  also  for  the  prepa- 
ration of  messes  which  cautious  criticism  assigns 
confidently  to  Saxon  influence.  For  the  most  part 
its  nomenclature  is  Norman  ;  but,  scattered  amongst 
the  culinary  terms  that  declare  the  French  lineage  of 


TZ.  A   BOOK-  ABOUT   THE   TABLE. 

the  mfljortty  of  the  dishes,  the  reader  comes  upon' 
xJarues  whose  Saxon  derivation  intimates  that  the 
epicures  of  the  fourteenth  century  were  not  insensible 
te  the  merits  of  savoury  compounds,  known  in 
Eno;land  long  before  the  battle  of  Hastings.  The 
second  Richard's  cooks  teach  the  apprentice  to 
raake  broths',  brewets,  and  chewets,  three  elastic 
terms  that  may,  in  fact,  be  said  to  comprehend  the 
greater  part  ef  what  was  appetizing  and  nutritious 
in  the  Plantagenet  cuisine.  If  the  "potages," 
'*' mortrews,"  and  "vyaundes"  of  the  compilation 
ciame  hither  from  ancient  Rome  through  Normandy, 
a^  Saxon  descent  may  be  claimed  for  compositions  of 
the  same  design  and  merit. 

Another  noteworthy  feature  of  **  The  Forme  of 
Cury,"  is  its  respectful  mention  of  cheap  and 
homely  dishes,  ada'pted  to  the  narrow  means  of 
yeomen  and  artisans,  rather  than  to  the  fastidious 
palates  of  princes.  Injustice  is  done  to  the  com- 
pilers when  their  work  is  said  to  exhibit  only 
the  culinary  condition  of  the  court,  without 
throwing  light  into  the  larders  and  cupboards  of- 
humble  dwellings.  Most  of  their  receipts  are  for  ^ 
the  kitchens  of  the  prosperous.  Some  of  them 
are  directions  for  the  manufacture  of  delicacies  that 
were  even  too  costly  for  habitual  consumption  at 
rich  men's  tables.  But,  whilst  providing  good 
cheer  for  court-revels  and  baronial  festivities,  they 


OLD   EXOLTSH    COOKERY.  73 

give  rules  for  cooking  beans  and  bacon,  pea-soup, 
milk-pottage,  beef-hotchpotch,  and  gourd-pie.  A 
book  for  the  court  and  courtiers,  in  respect  to  its 
dainties,  the  **  Forme ','  was  also  a  treatise  for  the 
populace,  in  respect  to  its  receipts  for  the  homely 
fare  which  wa&  set  before  ordinary  men  under  their 
own  roofs,  and  also  before  the  servants  and  inferior 
visitors  of  royal  households. 

Whether  they  came  to  Plantagenet  tables  through 
a  Saxon  channel,  or  by  way  of  Normandy,  the 
dishes  of  our  forefathers,  of  the  fourteenth  century, 
are  referable  to  the  same  ancient  source.  The 
cuisine    of    feudal   England    was    Roman*    in    its 

•  Here  are  some  of  the  most  obvious  points  of  resemblance,  or 
rather  proofs  of  identity,  in  the  Koraan  and  mediaeval  schools  of 
cookery.  1.  The  large  use  of  frumenty,  or  other  prepared  corn,  in 
broths,  stews;  and  hot<:h-potches.  2.  The  continual  use  of  the  pot, 
and  the  less  frtequent  employment  of  the  spit.  N.B.— The  spit  and 
gridiron  were  more  serviceable  in  the  Roman  than  in  the  old 
Enghsh  kitchen.  3.  The  practice  of  combining  in  stews  and  "  made 
dishes"  several  meats  of  incongruous  flavours.  4.  The  incessant  use 
of  knife  and  block,  pestle  and  mortar,  for  mincing  and  pounding 
meats.  6.  The  practice  of  roasting  slightly  before  boiling,  and  of 
boiling  before  roasting.  6.  The  lavish  exhibition  of  strong  spices, 
80  as  to  smother  the  natural  flavours  of  the  seasoned  nr^ts.  7.  The 
complete  ignorance  of  the  prime  functions  of  sauce.  8.  The  use  of 
saflron  ,  a  spice  used  sparingly  by  the  Romans,  and  inordinately  by 
the  mediaevalists,  which  has  altogether  disappeared  from  the  modern 
kitchen.  9.  The  similarity,  amounting  almost  to  identity,  of  some  of 
the  Roman  stews  and  old  English  hotch-potches.  10.  The  imagina- 
tive •i)redilection  shown  in  the  preference  of  the  greater  fowl  and  fish 
over  the  smaller,  and  of  unpalatable  birds  of  fine  plumage  over  delicate 


74  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

principles  and  details.  No  one  will  question  this 
statement,  after  studying  the  Apician  "  Art  of 
Cookery,"  and  comparing  it  with  "  Forme  of  Cury." 
In  both  works  we  see  the  same  materials  and 
processes,  the  same  barbarous  treatment  of  delicate 
viands  with  overpowering  sauces,  and  the  same 
delight  in  messes  of  multifarious  and  incongruous 
ingredients.  Some  of  the  choicest  compositions  of 
the  modern  repertory  may  be  found  in  the  ancient 
collection  of  receipts,  with  scarcely  the  addition  of 
a  material  or  the  substitution  of  a  spice.  Not,  of 
course,  that  the  two  schools  of  cookery  were 
precisely  the  same.  For  instance,  the  mediaDvalists 
were  less  lavish  users  of  oil  than  their  southern 
precursors ;  they  had  recourse  to  the  spit  less 
frequently,  and  to  the  pot  even. more  often  than  the 
old  Romans ;  and  in  default  of  any  such  noisome 

birds  of  less  attractive  feather.  The  Romans  feasted  on  the  parrot, 
the  flamingo,  and  the  peacock,  serving  the  last  in  his  hackel.  The 
old  English  also  delighted  in  the  peacock  served  thus  showily.  The 
swan,  also,  a  bird  in  no  great  request  with  modern  gourmands,  was 
prized  highly  by  both  Romans  and  English.  Just  as  the  ancients 
relished  their  ^'stinking  birds,"  our  ancestors  devoured  eagerly 
bustards,  cranes,  and  herons.  11.  The  taste  for  such  execrable 
preparations  as  roast  lobster  and  sweetened  oysters.  The  Komans 
served  our  "natives"  in  honey,  the  medisevalists  dished  them  in 
BUgar-syrup  as  well  as  honey.  12.  The  extravagant  use  of  honey  in 
sauces  for  meats.  13.  The  multifariousness  of  ingredients  in  made 
dishes.  14.  The  mediaaval  broths,  brewets,  and  mortrews  were  the 
pultes,  patinsB,  and  minutalia  of  the  more  ancient  cuisine. 


MEDIJIVAL   SOUPS.  75 

condiment  as  garuna,  they  were  spendthrifts  and 
madraen  with  ginger,  cinnamon,  cubebs,  and  other 
stimulating  flavours,  which  the  ancients  used  less 
immoderately,  or  neglected  altogether. 

Like  the  Roman  cuisine,  mediaaval  cookery  had 
a  vegetable  basis.  Of  its  half-hundred  or  so  of 
soups,  several  consisted  altogether  of  water 
thickened  with  boiled  frumenty,  rice,  or  pulse, 
flavoured  with  pot-herbs,  and  seasoned  with  common 
spices.  In  this  way,  also,  the  mediaevalists  concocted 
bean-soup,  pea-soup,  turnip-soup,  cabbage-soup, 
parsnip-soup,  skirret-soup,  herb-soup,  gourd-pot- 
tage, rice-pottage.  These  thinner  broths  were 
sometimes  enriched  with  the  liquor  of  stewed  meat 
or  minced  viands,  but  the  vegetable  dominated  over 
all  other  ingredients.  So  also  their  thicker  brewets 
and  stews — messes  less  substantial  than  hotch- 
potches,  and  more  satisfying  than  the  lighter  soups 
— were  thickened  with  bread,  frumenty,  oatmeal, 
prepared  barley,  rice,  and  products  of  the  garden. 
The  men  of  feudal  England  were  copious  takers  of 
soup ;  and  whilst  some  of  their  soups  were  meat 
and  drink  for  the  ravenous  bellies  of  famished 
soldiers,  others  were  delicate  enough  to  please  a 
modern  epicure.  Their  Humble-soup,  and  Pig- 
soup,  and  Roe-broth  may  be  named  as  examples 
of  the  former  sort.  Their  Egg-soup  and  Lark- 
soup    were   favourable   specimens  of   the  daintier 


7Q  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

preparations.  Courtiers  could  appreciate  a  pottapre 
of  small  birds  boiled  in  almond  broth,  flavoured 
with  onions,  pellitory,  and  salt,  and  enriched  with 
lard.  Yeomen  smacked  their  lips  over  steaming 
bowls  of  strongly  seasoned  "  PeiTeij  of  peson," 
i.e.,  the  ptiree  of  the  modern  family-table.  But 
the  mediaeval  chefs  were  even  happier  in  their  ffsh- 
soups  than  their  flesh -pot^t ages.  Skilfully  prepared, 
their  eel-broths  and  soie-broths  would  extort 
praise  from  the  most  fastidious  gourmets  of  the 
present  day.  Nor  should  their  muscle-broths  and 
oyster-soups  be  passed  over  without  commenda- 
tion. One  of  their  oyster-pottages  was  execrably 
overcharged  with  ginger,  sugary  and  mace.  "  Oysters 
in  Cynee,"  on  the  contrary,  was  a  preparation  of 
high  merit,  if  not  of  genius.  But  the  grand  fault  of 
most  of  their  soups  was  a  multifariousness  of 
materials  and  seasonings',  resulting  in  confusion  of 
flavours  and  torpor  of  the  palate.  The  same 
objection  must  be  made  against  their  more  elaborate 
mortrews  and  hotch-potches. 

The  magnificent  sides  of  venison  and  barons  of 
beef  that  the  popular  imagination  delights  to  place 
•before  mediaeval  feasters,  seldom  or  never  appeared 
on  the  tables  of  the  Plantagenets.  When  they  did 
not  satisfy  their  hunger  with  pottages  and  bread,  our 
mediaeval  ancestors  usually  found  their  more  sub- 
stantial  nutriment   in  hashes,    hotch-potches,  fine 


GOBBETS  AND   DIOKS.  77 

minces,  pies,  and  viands  pounded  with  the  pestle 
and  mortar  to  a  pulp.*  The  grander  creatures  of 
the  stall  and  chase  were  served  in  gobbets,  dices, 
or  still  more  minute  pieces.  The  smaller  animals 
were  ordinarily  prepared  in  the  same  manner,  with 
an  unsparing  use  of  the  chopper,  mincing-knife, 
and  pestle. 

The  same  was  the  case  with  their  noblest  birds 
and  royal  fish.  The  peacock  was  sometimes  cooked 
Avhole;  but  at. feasts,  where  the  gorgeous  bird  w^s 

*  Mortrews,  a  numerous  jciaas  of  made  dishes^  derived  their 
name  from  the  mortarium  in  which  their  meajls  W£re  beaten  and 
ground  to  pulp.  "  Hack  it  small/'  "  dice  it,"  are  the  Forme's  direc- 
tions for  preparing  viands.  The  gobbet — the  largest  piece  of  meat 
served  in  bash  or  soup — was  about  the  size  of  a  man's  thumb.  A 
gobbot  (abbreviated  to  *'gob,")  as  large  as  two  thumbs,  was  a  thing 
for  remark.  Remember  the  nursery  rhyme  legend  of  King  Arthur's 
housekeeping : 

"  When  good  King  Arthur  ruled  the  land 

He  ruled  it  like  a  king ; 

He  stole  three  pecks  of  barley  meal, 

To  make  a  black  pudding. 

"  A  black  pudding  the  king  did  make. 
He  stuffed  it  well  with  plums, 
And  in  it  put  great  "  gobs"  of  fat 
As  big  as  my  two  thumbs. 

**  The  king  And  queen  did  eat  thereof, 
Aud  noblemen  beside. 
And  what  they  could  not  oat  that  day, 
The  queen  next  morning  fried." 
Whatever  his  period,  the  writer  of  this  charming  doggerel  had  a 
jutit  notion  .of  a  uobly  big  gobbet. 


78  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

brought  to  table  in  its  plumage,  its  wholeness  was 
often  only  apparent,  the  meat  having  been  dissected 
by  the  carver,  and  then  restored  to  the  interior  of 
the  "  hackel."  The  same  remarks  are  applicable  to 
the  crane,  the  swan,  the  heron,  and  other  large  fowl, 
which,  though  sometimes  served  whole,  were  often 
broken  into  hashes,  and  were  occasionally  brought 
upon  the  board  in  pieces,  even  when  for  pictorial 
effect  they  were  offered  with  the  appearance  of 
entirety.  The  sturgeon,  honoured  for  its  size,  was 
usually  put  upon  the  board  in  fragments.  "  He 
schal,"  says  the  *  Forme  of  Cury,'  "  be  shorn  in 
besys,  and  stepyd  over  night,  and  sodyn  longe  as 
flesh  :  and  he  schal  be  etyn  in  vinegar."  Capons, 
chickens,  geese,  pheasants,  partridges,  pigeons,  and 
smaller  birds  were  often  brought  to  table  whole, 
and  divided  artistically  by  expert  carvers,  but  they 
were  much  more  often  served  to  the  hungry 
in  pies,  hashes,  mortrews,  and  thick  stews. 
Where  the  mediaeval  epicure  had  one  joint,  he  had 
twenty  **  made  dishes ;"  for  every  whole  creature 
that  charmed  his  sight,  there  were  a  dozen  hotch- 
potches to  gratify  his  nostrils  with  savoury  steam. 
In  short,  the  mediaeval  cuisine  consisted  chiefly  of 
soups  and  spoon-meats.  The  exceptions  to  this 
rule  were  very  few.  The  collars  and  sides  of  brawn, 
which  showed  out  so  grandly  amongst  the  broth- 
pots  and  bowls  of  mortrew,  were,  in  fact,  a  kind  of 


A   BLOW   FOE  A   BLUNDERER.  79 

cold  soup.  The  cold  boar's  head,  an  article  of 
grotesque  garniture  rathfer  than  a  piece  de  resistance^ 
afforded  a  meat  that  could  be  handled  conveniently 
in  thick  wedge-like  slices  by  eaters  unprovided  with 
forks.  The  fingers  also  could  deal  aptly  with  the 
thick  portions  of  the  smaller  game  distributed  by 
professional  carvers.  But,  in  times  prior  to  the 
introduction  of  the  fork,  spoon-meats  were  naturally 
in  vogue ;  the  nice  eater  avoiding  such  dishes  as  he 
could  not  "  put  away"  with  a  mannerly  employment 
of  his  fingers  and  solitary  utensil. 

Like  his  Boman  forerunners,  the  mediaeval  epicure 
lost  his  temper  when  his  food  was  not  sufficiently 
tender.  An  apocryphal  story  records  how  William 
the  Conqueror,  enraged  by  the  toughness  of  a  half- 
roasted  crane,  was  on  the  point  of  striking  his 
favourite  and  prime  kitchener,  William  Fitz-Osborne, 
when  Eudo,  the  courtly  dapifer,  saved  his  fellow- 
servant  from  the  shameful  blow.  The  anecdote 
may  be  false  with  regard  to  Dr.  Freeman's  hero, 
but  it  doubtless  had  a  truthful  foundation  in  the 
anger  of  some  princely  gourmand  suffering  under  a 
cook's  incompetence.  The  vianders  of  olden  time 
must  have  been  often  disappointed  by  the  texture  of 
viands  taken  from  creatures  whose  size  had  occa- 
sioned unreasonable  hopes  of  enjoyment.  Notice 
has  already  been  taken  of  the  principal  means  em- 
ployed by  the  mediaevalists  to  ensure  tenderness; 


80  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

but  it  should  be  also  observed  that  for  the  attain- 
ment of  this  end  they,  Hke  the  Romans,  pre- 
pared meat  for  the  spit  by  parboiling  it,  and  also 
roasted  flesh  lightly  before  committing  it  to  the 
boiler. 

The  "  sweets,"  as  they  are  now-a-days  familiarly 

termed,   of  the   mediasval    table,   were  numerous. 

They  comprised  jellies,  fruit  puddings,  fruit  tarts, 

mashes  of  fruits,  blanc-mange  of  pounded  chicken 

and  rose-leavefl,  divers  kinds  of  mince-pie,  almond 

cakes,  milk  puddings,  similar  to  the  firm  custards  of 

the  present  time,  and  a  variety  of  devices,  grand  or 

minute,  manufactured  wiA  honey  and  sugar ;  but 

most  of  these  delicacies  reveal  the  bluntness  of  taste 

that  is  displayed  in  the  {reparations  of  meat.     No 

palate  with  a  gust  for  the  singular  flavour  of  quinces 

would  wish  them  to  be  stewed,  after  the  "  Forme's'* 

fashion,  with  lard,  honey,  yolks  of  eggs,  almond 

milk,    saffron,   ginger,    pepper,   and    other    strong 

spices.     The  fruit  of  the  mediaeval  mulberry  mess 

can  scarcely  have  been  rendered  more  agreeable  by 

the  "  strong  powder"   (a  compound  of  hot  spices), 

salt,  sugar,  and  yolks  of  eggs  beaten  into  the  mash^ 

whose  redness  was   heightened  by  alkanet.      Ap- 

pulmoy — a  favourite  medieval  preparation  of  apples 

— resembles  some  of  our  modern  compositions  in  its 

principal  materials — apples,  honey,  and  rice;  but  no 

Confectioner  of  this  period  would  think  of  seasoning 


BOSEE.  81 

such  a  pudding  with  ginger,  pepper,  mace,  and  salt. 
Another  of  the  "  Forme's"  choicest  fruit-messes  was 
Rosee,  made  by  this  receipt : — "  Take  thyk  mylke 
as  to  fore  welled.  Cast  thereto  sugar,  a  gode  porcion 
pynes  (i.e.  mulberries),  dates  ymynced,  canel,  and 
powder  gynger,  and  seeth  it,  and  alye  it  with  floers 
of  white  rosis,  and  floor  of  rys.  Cole  it  and  messe 
it  forth.  If  thou  wilt,  instede  of  almonde  mylke, 
take  swete  cremes  of  kyue."  Petals  of  roses  have 
fallen  out  of  culinary  use  in  England  ;  but  so  late  as 
the  last  century,  our  people  put  them  into  tarts, 
salads,  and  fruit  stews.  The  practice  was  of  Roman 
origin.* 

Except  that  they  were  often  seasoned  in  a  fashion 
offensive  to  the  modern  palate,  the  medisBval  bread- 
puddings,  rice-puddings,  and  standing  custards  of 
milk  and  eggs  differed  in  no  important  respect  from 

*  The  Apician  "  patina  de  rosis"  was  a  mortrew  of  rose  leaves, 
brain,  and  eggs,  beaten  up  with  liqnamen,  pepper,  and  wine,  and 
fried  lightly.  Rosee,  or  rose  mortrew,  was  made  in  Old  England 
by  this  receipt :  "  Take  the  flowris  of  rosys,  and  wash  them  well 
in  water,  and  then  take  almonds,  and  temper  them  and  seethe  them, 
and  take  flesh  of  capons  or  of  hens,  and  hack  it  small,  and  then 
bray  them  well  in  a  mortar,  and  then  do  it  in  the  rose,  so  that  the 
flesh  accord  with  the  milk,  and  so  that  the  meat  be  chargeaunt ; 
and  after  do  it  to  fire  to  boylc,  and  do  thereto  sugar  and  saflron, 
and  it  be  well  coloured  and  rosy  of  leaves."  Akin  to  the  rose- 
mortrews  were  the  blanc-mange  mortrews  made  of  pounded  chicken, 
ground  rice,  pounded  almonds,  or  almond«creme.  Of  course  they 
were  stifl*,  sometimes  they  were  coloured  with  saffron,  in  which 
case,  however,  they  were  still  called  blanc-mange. 

VOL.  I.  G 


82  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE, 

our  familiar  preparations  of  the  same  kind.  The 
same  may  be  said  of  the  old  English  pancakes,  and 
fritters  of  sliced  fruits  clothed  with  batter.  The 
plum-pudding  of  our  Christmas  dinners,  fondly  re- 
garded by  popular  fancy  as  the  ancienteat  compound 
of  "  true  Old  English"  fare,  is  a  comparatively 
modern  invention.  No  older  than  the  Restoration, 
it  did  not  altogether  supersede  plum-porridge  (a 
mess  of  unquestionably  mediaBval  descent)  before  the 
close  of  the  last  century.  But  we  find  in  the 
"  Forme,"  receipts  for  one  or  two  puddings  made 
with  raisins,  figs,  eggs,  honey,  wine,  and  bread  fried 
in  grease,  which  may,  at  least,  be  said  to  have 
furnished  culinarv  inventors  with  the  first  rude 
notion  of  an  English  plum-pudding. 

Mince-meat  and  mince-pies  are  articles  of  Christ- 
mas fare  still  made  very  much  after  the  fashion  of 
the  medigavalists,  who  delighted  to  combine  dried 
fruits  and  meats  in  chopt  messes.  The  Plantagenet 
epicures  had  crustards  or  standing  pies  of  divers 
kinds — crustards  of  venison,  birds,  pork ;  crustards 
of  fish ;  and  crustards  of  fruit.  These  preparations 
had  another  familiar  name,  the  grander  being  tarts, 
and  the  smaller  tartlets.  And  of  these  pies  with  a 
designation,  respecting  which  more  will  be  said 
hereafter,  none  were  more  popular  than  such  as 
contained  in  their  "  cofyns,"  or  "  traps"  of  paste,  a 
mixture  of  apples,  spices,  figs,  raisins,  and  pears, 


MEDIiEVAL   MINOEMEAT,  83 

chopt  together,  or  beaten  into  a  pulp  with  the 
pestle  and  mortar.  "  For  to  make  tartys  in  applis," 
say  Kichard  the  Second's  chief  master-cook  "  take 
gode  applys,  and  gode  spycis,  and  figgs,  and  reysons, 
and  perys,  and  wan  they  are  wel  ybrayed,  coloure 
wyth  saffron  well ;  and  do  yt  in  a  cofyn,  and  do  yt 
forth  to  bake  wel."  Lenten  tarts  and  tartlets 
contained  fish  pulled  to  pieces,  or  shred,  amongst 
the  sweet  ingredients.  So  also  meat  tarts  for  festal 
seasons  contained  minced  or  shred  flesh  together  with 
the  fruits  and  sweeter  elements  of  modern  "  minced 
meat."  Like  the  housekeepers  of  our  time,  medisaval 
cooks  kept  stocks  of  minced  fruits,  such  as  their 
"  Fygee"  and  "  Dates  in  Compost,"  in  "  earthen 
vessels  ready  for  use." 

Enough  has  been  said  in  this  general  survey  of 
old  English  cookery  to  satisfy  the  ordinary  reader 
that,  whilst  it  possessed  the  redeeming  features,  it 
retained  the  most  vicious  practices  of  the  Apician 
school,  from  which  it  was  derived,  or,  rather,  of 
which  it  was  only  a  modern  period.  Li  respect  to 
its  chief  aims,  tenderness  and  succulency,*  it  was 

*  To  impart  to  tbeir  hashes  and  "  gallimawfreys,"  the  richness  and 
lubricity  which  the  old  English  epicures  desired  even  more  than 
tenderness,  the  Flantagenet  cooks  were  lavish  exhibitors  of  fat,  oil, 
and  lard.  Olive- oil  was  in  great  request  with  them,  lard  entered 
into  the  composition  of  most  of  their  meat-messes,  and  also  into 
many  of  their  preparations  of  fruit.    They  were,  however^  sparing 

G    2 


84  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

triumphant.  With  regard  to  flavours,  it  achieved 
scarcely  anything  but  confusion.  Pegge  was  not 
unjust,  when  he  remarked  of  it  contemptuously, 
**  But  after  all  the  avysement  of  physicians  and 
philosophers,  its  processes  do  not  appear  by  any 
means  to  be  well  calculated  for  the  benefit  of 
recipients,  but  rather  inimical  to  them.  Many  of 
them  are  such  strange  and  heterogeneous  composi- 
tions, mere  olios  and  gallimawfreys,  that  they  seem 
removed  as  far  as  possible  from  the  intention  of 
contributing  to  health ;  indeed  the  messes  are  so 
redundant  and  complex,  that  in  regard  to  herbs,  no 
less  than  ten  are  used,  where  we  should  now  be 
content  with  two  or  three."  The  particular  receipt 
to  which  the  editor  pointed  in  demonstration  of  this 
last  remark,  is  one  for  a  good  broth.  Given 
in  modern  spelling,  the  direction  runs  thus : 
"  Take  borage,  colewort,  bugloss,  parsley,  beet- 
root, orach,  avens,  violets,  savory,  fennel,  and  when 
they  are  boiled,  press  them  well  small,  cast  them 

users  of  bntter  and  cheese,  as  cnlinary  instruments  and  ingredients, 
at  least  in  comparison  with  their  successors  of  modern  England. 
The  Norman  cheese,  which  took  its  special  name  from  Bouen  was 
their  most  highly  esteemed  cheese.  Though  it  never  went  out  of 
general  use,  as  an  agreeable  lubricator  of  bread,  from  the  time  of 
the  early  Saxons,  bntter  seems  to  have  fallen  out  of  fashion  after 
the  Norman  conquest.  Anyhow  it  was  sparingly  used  in  the  pro- 
cesses of  the  best  kitchens  of  strictly  feudal  England. 


COOKS   AND   DOCTORS.  85 

in  good  broth,  and   seethe  them  and   serve  them 
forth." 

In  this  undiscerning  use  of  sauce-herbs,  the  medias- 
val  followed  the  example  of  the  Apician  cooks.     The 
farced  grewels  of  the  old  English  housewives  were, 
as  Mr.  Coote  observes, .  the  savoury  pultes  of  the 
Roman  ancients.     It  should,  also,  be  borne  in  mind 
that    the     herbs,    administered    so    freely,    were 
given   medicinally,    as   well    as   for    flavour.      In 
times  when  physicians  were  operative  cooks,  and 
epicures  went  to  the  same  professors  for  physic  and 
food,  a  culinary  receipt  was  often  a  remedial  pre- 
scription.    Each    of  the  herbs   of  the  last  given 
receipt  either  had,  or  was  supposed  to  have,  curative 
virtues ;  and  it  was  committed  to  the  broth  out  of 
regard  for  the  consumer's    health.     To  catch  the 
precise  significance  and  "  lurking  mystery  "  of  each 
of  the  several  herbs  thrown  into  the  same  mess  by 
the  cooks  of  the  olden  time,    the  special  student 
should  have  recourse  to  the  "  Herbals,"  which  show 
why  the  herb-doctors  of  the  same  period  put,  as 
many  of  the   same   ingredients   into  their  strictly 
medical  potions  and  conserves.    The  same  quackery 
which  invented  medical  justifications  of  the  Roman 
method  of  flavouring  dishes,  became  a  barrier  to 
culinary    advancement.      Forbidding    experiments 
and  deriding  novelties,  it 'fostered   a  superstitious 


86  A   BOOK  ABOUT  THE   TABLE. 

reverence  for  bad  cookery,  and  gave  an  evil  name 
to  gastronomic  "  free  thought."  Taste  could  not 
assert  its  rights,  so  long  as  all  the  wise  men 
and  wise  women  of  the  country  recommended,  for 
health's  sake,  what  was  distasteful. 


87 


CHAPTER  VI. 

CULINARY    COLOUEISTS. 

"  July  23,  1670.  This  is  in  Saffron  Walden  parish,  famous  for 
that  useful  plant,  with  which  all  the  country  is  covered." — Vide  Joav 
Evelyn's  "Diary." 

"  The  flower  consisteth  of  six  small  blew  leaves  tending  to  purple, 
having  in  the  middle  many  very  small  yellow  strings  and  threads ; 
among  which  are  two,  three,  or  more  thicke  fat  chives  of  a  fierie 
colour,  somewhat  reddish,  of  a  strong  smell  when  they  be  dried,  which 
doth  stuffe  and  trouble  the  head.  .  .  .  The  chives  steeped  in  water 
serve  to  illumine  or  (as  we  say)  limne  pictures  and  imagerie,  and 
also  to  colour  meats  and  confections." — Vide  Gerarde's  "  Herbal." 

"  Saffron  killeth  moths  if  it  be  sowed  in  paper  bags  verie  thin,  and 
laid  up  in  presses  amongst  tapistrie  or  apparell." — Vide  Harrison's 
Introduction  to  Holinshed's  "  Chronicles." 

Autolyctu.  ...  I  must  have  saffron  to  colour  the  warden 
pies. — Vide  "  Winter's  Tale." 

"Croaker:  One  who  croaks  or  grumbles." — Vide  Wjsbster's  Dic- 
tionary. 

"  Don't  be  a  croaker."— Old  Sayino. 

IN  arranging  their  tables,  and  preparing  their 
festal  halls,  the  Old  English  were  studious  of 
pictorial  effect.  Norman  love  of  display  was  con* 
spicuous  in  the  banqueting-chamber ;  and  long 
after  the  French  intruders  had  adopted  the  Saxon 
tongue,  and  been  blended  with  the  English  race, 
their  modes  of  exercising  hospitality  were  preserved, 
even  to  minute  details,  by  a  people  jealously  reveren- 
tial of  ancient  usage.     Judged  by  modern  canons, 


88  A    BOOK   ABOUT   THE   TABLE, 

the  mediaeval  entertainments  were  deficient  in 
elegance  and  refinement;  but  in  courtly  life  they 
never  wanted  the  particular  kinds  of  splen- 
dour and  sumptuous  brilliancy  congenial  to  feudal 
taste. 

The  drapery  of  the  board  was  abundant,  fine, 
and  delicately  white ;  and  whilst  the  walls  of  the 
feasting-room  were  richly  draped  with  tapestries 
and  banners  of  gaudy  silk,  the  ceiling  was  adorned 
with  festoons  of  flowers,  after  the  fashion  of  the 
Romans,  whose  honourable  sentiment  forbade  the 
guest  to  blab  to  the  world  words  spoken  indis- 
creetly "under  the  rose."  Gentle  servitors,  men 
of  stately  presence,  or  slight  pages  with  saucy  faces 
and  pert  tongues,  moved  to  and  fro,  bravely  clad  in 
liveries  which  the  cadet  of  the  noblest  houses  were 
proud  to  wear.  Nor  was  the  table  devoid  of  colour 
and  picturesqueness.  Every  course  comprised  a 
fantastic  "subtlety,"  whose  ingeniously  contrived 
figures,  typical  embellishments,  and  quaint  legend 
recalled  an  antique  story  or  enforced  a  wholesome 
maxim.  The  boar*s-head  grinned  hideously  in  the 
middle  of  the  board ;  or  perhaps  the  place  of  honour 
was  occupied  by  a  peacock  in  its  plumage.  The 
spaces  between  the  chief  dishes  offered  plates  of 
fruit,  or  trays  of  sweetmeats  to  the  idle  hand ;  and 
as  the  spectator  surveyed  the  profusely  laden  board, 
he  could  not  fail  to  observe  the  contrast  of   the 


BEDS   AND   YELLOWS.  89 

rich  or  vivid  colours,  which  culinary  artifice  had 
given  to  the  "  made  dishes." 

Brilliant  colourists,  the  medisBval  chefs  seized 
the  lessons  of  the  missal-painters,  and  delighted 
the  eye  with  chromatic  effects,  that  were  equally 
daring  and  felicitous.  On  their  subtleties,  and  other 
stupendous  pieces  of  confectionery,  gilded  leaves 
glowed  richly  beneath  sprays  of  silver.  Some  of  their 
"  made  dishes  "  were  red,  others  crimson ;  some 
were  of  vermilion  brightness,  and  some  of  delicate 
carmine  tint.  For  these  hues  they  were  indebted 
chiefly  to  red  sanders,  alkanet,  mulberry-juice,  and 
the  colouring  particles  of  blood.  Throwing  in  these 
vivid  hues  with  masterly  boldness,  they  were  also 
prodigal  of  yellow,  from  the  faintest  amber  to 
the  deepest  orange.  It  was  their  favourite  colour, 
and  was  conspicuous  in  breads  and  cakes,  pottages 
and  hashes,  brewets  and  twists  of  pastry.  Two- 
thirds  of  their  dishes  were  thus  enriched  to  the 
eye,  with  the  various  tints  of  a  dye  which  they 
obtained  from  the  bright  petals  of  a  delicate  flower, 
whose  story,  beginning  in  fable  and  ending  in 
homeliest  prose,  is  so  strange  and  whimsical  as 
to  merit  especial  notice  in  the  annals  of  Good 
Cheer. 

When  Crocus,  the  beloved  friend  of  Smilax,  fell 
beneath  Mercury's  murderous  quoit,  the  blood  which 
dripped  from  the  wounded  boy  moistened  the  turf. 


90  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

which,  after  his  death,  brought  forth  a  bell-shaped 
blue  flower  with  reddish-yellow  stigmata — the  Crocus 
Sativus  of  botanists.     Poetry  declared  that  the  lad 
was  changed  to  a  saffron  plant.     Prose  admitted 
that  the  flower  abounded  on  the  ground  where  he 
was  said  to  have  received  his  death-blow.  Scepticism 
remarked  that  probably  the  plant  had  grown  there 
long  before  the  incident,  whatever  it  was,  that  occa- 
sioned the  fable.  One  of  the  utterers  of  this  sceptical 
sentiment  was    an   Elizabethan    scholar,    William 
Harrison,  author  of  the  Introduction  to  Holinshed's 
Chronicles,   who    remarked  quaintly,    "A  certain 
yong  gentleman  called  Crocus  went  to  playe  at  coits 
in  the  field  with  Mercuric,  and  being  heedlesse  of 
himselfe,  Mercurie's  coit  happened  by  mishap  to  hit 
him  on  the  head,  whereby  he  received  a  wound  that 
yer  long  killed  him  altogither,  to  the  great  discomfort 
of  his  friends.     Finallie,  in  the  place  where  he  bled, 
saffron  was  found  to  grow,  whereupon  the  people 
seeing  the  colour  of  the  chive  as  it  stood,  (although 
I  doubt  not  it  grew  there  long  before),  adjudged 
it  to  come  of  the  blood  of  Crocus,   and  therefore 
they  gave  it  his  name." 

Attracted  by  the  colour  and  smell  of  the  three  fat 
chives,  "  verie  red  and  pleasant  to  behold,"  and  the 
fine  yellow  filaments  which  glowed  at  the  bottom 
of  the  deep  blue  cup,  the  ancients  observed  them 
carefully.     It  was  found  that  they  were  agreeable 


SAFFBON  DYES  AND  SCENTS.  91 

to  smell  and  taste,*  as  well  as  cheering  to  the  eye. 
They  were  supposed  to  possess  medicinal  virtues. 
It  was  certain  that  they  yielded  a  pigment  service- 
able to  artists  in  colour.  Henceforth  the  chives 
and  tendrils  were  gathered  and  pressed  into  yellow 
cakes,  that  were  sent  to  distant  lands  for  divers 
ends.  Used  as  a  dye,  they  gave  an  orange  hue  to 
silk,  wool,  and  linen.  Apothecaries  administered 
them  to  the  sick.  Cooks  put  them  into  their  con- 
fections. Ladies  were  indebted  to  them  for  the  hair- 
wash  which,  correcting  Nature's  error,  gave  them 
golden  hair.  In  the  Roman  cuisine  it  was  used 
moderately,  as  the  Apician   precepts  demonstrate. 

But  the  "Forme"  shows  that  the  cooks  of  Old 

i 

*  "  Wbat  in  the  ancient  use  of  saffron  is  most  discordant  with  our 
present  taste,  is  the  employing  it  as  a  perfame.  Not  only  were 
halls,  theatres,  and  courts,  through  which  one  wished  to  diffuse  an 
agreeable  smell,  strewed  with  this  plant,  but  it  entered  into 
the  composition  of  many  spirituous  extracts,  which  retained  the 
same  scent ;  and  these  costly  smelling  waters  were  often  made  to 
flow  in  small  streams,  which  spread  about  their  much  admired 
odour.  Luxurious  people  even  moistened  or  filled  with  them  all 
those  things  with  which  they  were  most  desirous  of  surprising  their 
gnestis  in  an  agreeable  manner,  or  with  which  they  ornamented  their 
apartments.  From  saffron,  with  the  addition  of  wax  and  other 
ingredients,  the  Grreeks  as  well  as  the  Romans  prepared  also  scented 
salves,  which  they  used  in  the  same  manner  as  our  ancestors  their 

balsams That  saffron  was  as  much  employed  in  seasoning 

dishes  as  for  a  perfume,  appears  from  the  oldest  work  on  cookery 
which  has  been  handed  down  to  us,  and  which  is  ascribed  to 
Apicins."'— Fuie  John  Beckmann's  "  Histobt  op  Inventions." 


92  'a  book  about  the  table. 

England  were  squanderers  of  the  aromatic  pigment. 
Their  delight  in  the  colour  was  a  passion — almost 
a  madness.  Broths,  thick  soups,  hashes,  stews, 
bread,  pastry,  fruit-mashes,  mortrews,  standing- 
brewets  and  puddings  were  all  "  yellowed  "  up  to 
lemon-tint  or  orange-tint  with  the  favourite  dye, 
which  was,  also,  prized  as  much  for  its  remedial  ex- 
cellence as  for  its  colouring  powers. 

Esteemed  above  all  other  spices,*  notwithstand- 
ing the  comparative  mildness  of  its  peculiar  flavour, 
it  was  the  Prince  of  Herbal  Medicaments.  It  was 
good  for  maladies  of  the  breast,  lungs,  stomach, 
liver.  It  was  of  marvellous  efficacy  in  affections  of  the 
eyes,  ears,  and  joints.  Taken  in  potions  it  purified 
the  blood,  and  drove  blotches  and  pimples  from  the 
skin.  Singularly  beneficial  in  all  the  ailments  to 
which  women  are  especially  liable,  it  was  in  high 
request  with  the  fair  sex.  Bridal  cakes  were  always 
deeply  coloured  with  it;  women  with  newly-born 
infants  in  their  arms  would  drink  no  fluid  that  was 
not  tinctured  with  it ;  and  on  *'  thanksgiving-day," 
whilst  the  young  mother  ate  little  but  saff'ron-dyed 
cake,  her  gossips  consumed  whole  pounds  of  the 

•  The  spices  of  the  old  English  cnisine  were  cinnamon  (never 
mentioned  by  Apicius)  mace,  cloves,  galjngale  (the  long-rooted 
cy perns),  pepper,  (from  the  East  Indies  vid  Venice  and  Genoa), 
ginger,  cubebs,  cardamours,  nutmegs,  carraway,  and  two  compound 
powders,  powder-fort  and  powder-douce,  analagous  to  modern  carry- 
powder.    Hence  saffron  was  the  mildest  of  the  spices  vn  taste. 


"  GOOD   AGAINST   THE   PLAGUE."  93 

same  virtuous  food.  Given  in  liniments,  saffron 
would  dissipate  tumours ;  taken  in  strong  drink  after 
an  accident  it  helped  the  sufferer's  fractured  bones  to 
re-unite.  It  had  the  most  contradictory  qualities, 
for  it  both  prevented  and  provoked  drunkenness. 
Given  in  proper  proportion  it  deprived  wine  of  its 
dangerous  power  over  the  nerves ;  but  taken  indis- 
creetly it  put  the  toper  at  the  mercy  of  vinous  devils. 
The  feaster,  who  returned  sober  from  a  drinking- 
bout,  attributed  the  steadiness  of  his  legs  to  his 
discretion  in  taking  "just  the  right  amount  of 
saffron."  If  he  were  carried  home  on  a  stretcher, 
his  misadventure  was  referred  to  the  "  saffron,"  in- 
stead of  the  "  salmon."  Lastly,  saffron  was  an 
effectual  preservative  against  the  plague.  One  of 
the  shrewdest  medical  practitioners  of  Queen 
Elizabeth's  London — John  Gerarde,  the  laborious 
naturalist  and  author  of  the  famous  "Herbal" — 
gravely  advises  his  readers  that,  in  seasons  of 
pestilence,  they  should  arm  themselves  against  the 
plague  by  taking  twelve  two-hundred-and-forty- 
sevenths  of  a  single  grain  of  saffron  every  morning 
before  breaking  their  fast.*     At  the  time  when  the 

*  Gerarde  says,  "  The  weight  of  ten  graines  of  saffron,  the  kernels 
of  walnuts,  two  ounces,  figs,  two  ounces,  mithridate,  one  drachm, 
and  a  few  sage  leaves  stampt  with  a  sufficient  quantity  of  Fimpemcll 
water,  and  made  into  a  masse  or  lumpe,  and  kept  in  a  glasse  for 
your  use,  and  thereof  twelve  graines,  given  in  the  morning  fasting, 
preserveth  from  pestilence   and  ezpelleth  it  from  those   that  are 


1 


94  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE, 

learned  man  gave  this  marvellous  prescription, 
saffron  was  still  so  largely  used  in  cookery  that  a 
luxurious  feaster  often  consumed  as  much  as  a 
drachm,  or  even  two  drachms,  of  the  yellow  paint 
in  four-and-twenty  hours.  From  Gerarde's  recipe, 
homoeopathists  may  see  that  Hahnemann  was 
not  the  first  doctor  to  recommend  infinitesimal 
doses. 

Uncertainty  covers  the  first  introduction  of  the 
Crocus  Sativus  to  English  soil.  '  On  the  strength  of 
a  pleasant  tradition  that  has  survived  the  culture 
of  the  plant  in  Essex,  Hackluyt  tells  that  the  first 
bulb  was  brought  to  this  country  by  a  patriotic 
pilgrim,  who,  wishing  to  enrich  his  native  land 
with  the  plant  of  the  spice,  hitherto  imported  only 
in  cakes  at  great  cost,  hid  the  treasure  in  his 
palmer's  staff,  and  so  conveyed  it  to  Britain.  The 
name  of  the  pious  traveller,  who  thus  eluded  the 
vigilance  of  the  police  of  an  unrecorded  mediae val 
custom-house,  and  thereby  destroyed  a  lucrative 
monopoly  of  Eastern  merchants,  has  not  come  to 
us  with  the  story  of  his  achievement.  It  is  thus 
that  history  often  neglects  the  men  whose  deeds 
are  famous. 

Anyhow,  the  bulb  was  planted   and  the  flower 

infected."  If  we  put  the  "  few  sage  leaves"  at  the  weight  of  an  ounce, 
the  entire  confection  would  weigh  five  ounces  one  drachm,  and  ten 
grains ;  of  which  only  ten  grains  were  of  safiron  stigmata ! 


L 


SAFFRON  WALDEN.  95 

raised  in  Essex  during  the  third  Edward's  reign ; 
and  it  is  probable  that  Richard  the  Second's  cooks 
looked  to    the    growers    of    that   county    for  the 
greater  part  of   their  supply  of  the  yellow  spice 
which  they  used  so  lavishly.     It  was  grown  at  an 
early  date  in  Gloucestershire,  and  other  parts  of  the 
West  country.      But,   though  some  of  the   Eliza- 
bethan   dealers    in   the    commodity    thought    the 
saflron  of  the  Western  shires  superior  to  that  grown 
in  the  Eastern  counties,  and  would  even  buy  it  at 
a  slightly  higher  price  than  Essex  saffron,     East 
Anglia  continued  to  the  close  of  the  seventeenth 
century  to   have  larger  crocus-grounds  than    any 
other  part  of  the  kingdom.     Walden,  on  the  Essex 
border,  was  for  centuries  the  principal  seat  of  the 
crocus-trade,  from  which  it  derived  its  distinguish- 
ing name  of  Saffron- Walden,  long  before  Thomas, 
Earl  of  Norfolk  built  Audley  End  in  that  parish,  in 
honour  of   his  maternal  grandfather.  Lord  Chan- 
cellor   Audley  (the    pliant   keeper  of    Henry   the 
Eighth's  elastic  conscience),    who  there  made  his 
rural  home  on   lands  which  he   acquired  from  the 
king  on  the  dissolution   of  Walden  Abbey.     The 
arms    of    the    borough,    "Three    saffron    flowers 
walled   in,"    commemorate  its  ancient  connection 
with  the  trade  that,  after  enriching  it  for  centuries, 
disappeared  altogether    at    the    close  of    the  last 
century. 


96  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

More  than  all  other  kinds  of  farming,  the  culture 
of  saflfron  was  laborious,  costly,  and  perilous. 
The  bulbs,  in  Elizabeth's  time,  cost  in  fairly  plentiful 
years  only  two  and  eightpence  a  coomb ;  but  in 
scarce  seasons,  when  wet  had  rotted,  or  heat  had 
parched  the  underground  "  stock,"  the  farmer  had 
to  pay  from  eight  to  ten  shillings  per  quarter  for 
every  twenty  quarters  of  heads  that  were  requisite 
for  the  planting  of  a  single  acre.  To  prepare  the 
soil  for  his  bulbs,  the  farmer  had  to  manure  it  with 
thirty  loads  per  acre  of  good  dung  ;  and  the  ground, 
even  when  so  enriched,  would  not  sustain  the 
delicate  and  devouring  growth  for  more  than  three 
successive  years.  It  was  true  the  soil  was  st*ill 
capable  of  yielding  barley  for  many  years  without 
more  compost,  after  the  removal  of  the  bulbs ; 
but  the  cost  of  the  preparatory  manuring  was  a 
heavy  expense.  Labour  demanded  further  outlay. 
Every  year  the  bulbs  were  raised  in  July,  relieved 
of  "  rosse  and  filth,'*  and  carefully  reset  in  rows 
before  the  later  part  of  August.  Each  rank  or  row 
had  to  be  covered  and  earthed  up  with  fine  mould. 
In  September  the  ground  was  carefully  weeded,  so 
that  "  nothing  might  annoy  the  flower"  when  its 
head  appeared  above  the  earth.  What  with  wages 
for  stoning,  payments  for  dunging,  wages  for 
raising  and  re-setting,  and  wages  for  weeding,  the 
grower  of  the  dainty  plant  was  always  putting  his 


THB  choker's  teoubles.  97 

hand   into  his  pocket,     and    paying    away  money 
which  he  might  never  recover. 

When  at  length  the  blue  flowers  smiled  in  long 
straight  lines  over  the  carefully  gardened  ground, 
the  farmer's    time    of   keenest  anxiety  and  most 
urgent  peril  began.     A  heavy  fall  of  rain  might  so 
batter  and  drench  the  delicate  crop,  and  blend  the 
blue  dye  of  the  petals  with  the  yellow  of  the  stigmata, 
that  a  whole  acre  would  not    yield  him  a  singlf^ 
packet  of  marketable  chives.     Even  fine  rain  would 
injure  the  stigmata,    so  as  to  make  the    crop   of 
inferior  quality.    A  strong  gale  of  wind  was  no  less 
hurtful  than  untimely  showers.   The  time  for  picking 
the  flowers  and  removing  the  chives,  together  with 
their  filaments,  having  come,  the  grower  was  again 
compelled  to    pay  wages   in  money  or  kind.     By 
paying  in  money  he  parted  with  what  he  loved.     If 
he  paid  the  pickers  with  a  proportion  of  gathered 
chives,  he  parted  with  material  that  a  turn  of  the 
market  might  raise  in  a  trice  to  three  times  the 
sum  of  wages  rendered  in  coin.     He  could  not  dally 
and  trifle  with  time — nor  could  he  accomplish  the 
task  with  only  a  few  hands.     It  was  necessary  to 
gather  the  fresh  blossoms  when  the  morning  dew 
was  upon  them,  and  before  the  sun  of  "  St.  Luke's 
little  summer"  had    "  caused  them   to  welke  and 
flitter."     The  flowers  having  been  plucked,  and  the 
"  yellows "    separated    from    the    worthless    blue 

VOL.  I.  H 


98  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

petals,  the  next  operation  was  to  dry  the  chives 
and  filaments  by  placing  them  on  trays  of  strained 
canvas  over  a  gentle  fire.  When  dried,  the  chives 
•were  heaped  together,  pressed  into  cakes  by  means 
of  weights,  and  put  into  bags  for  sale. 

In  **  good  times  "  the  cakes  sold  for  a  price  that 
nobly  rewarded  the  grower,  who  had  been  so 
fortunate  as  to  gather  a  large  crop  in  fine  condition. 
But  for  times  to  be  good  to  a  crocus-grower,  it  was 
necessary  that  they  should  be  bad  to  his  neighbour. 
Whilst  his  own  harvest  was  abundant,  he  required 
that  the  general  yield  of  the  saffron-gardens  should 
be  deficient.  Unless  the  general  supply  was 
defective,  the  owner  of  a  large  stock  was  com- 
pelled to  sell  it  in  a  glutted  market  at  a  low  rate. 
In  which  case,  notwithstanding  his  high  farming, 
and  his  vigilance,  and  his  good  fortune  in  escaping 
rain,  and  his  cleverness  in  seizing  the  proper 
mornings  for  picking,  he  found  himself  even  poorer 
than  he  would  have  been  with  an  ordinary  yield, 
after  a  generally  deficient  harvest. 

Something  was  always  less  than  quite  fortunate 
with  the  saffron-farmers,  or  "  crokers,"  as  they  were 
generally  designated  from  their  special  growth.  The 
bulbs  rotted  in  the  ground;  or  the  wind  caught  the 
blossoms  and  injured  the  chives ;  or  the  show  of 
yellows  was  deficient  in  quantity,  colour,  bright- 
ness, or  fragrancy;   or  rain  utterly  destroyed  the 


BLASPHEMOUS  GBUMBLEES.  99 

whole  produce  of  a  ground,  from  which  the 
"  croker"  had  hoped  to  net  a  hundred  pounds ;  or 
the  harvest  was  everywhere  so  ruinously  plentiful, 
that  instead  of  rating  from  twenty  to  thirty  shillings 
a-pound,  new  saffron,  of  the  finest  quality,  was 
quoted  at  ten  and  twelve  shillings. 

It  is  not  wonderful  that  a  croker  seldom  wore  a 
cheerful  face.  All  farmers  were  grumblers,  but  the 
croker  surpassed  them  all  in  querulous  dissatisfac- 
tion. Other  farmers  were  sometimes  heard  to 
admit  that  times  might  be  worse,  and  that  they 
might  have  more  reason  for  complaint.  But  the 
"  crokers"  were  always  in  the  worst  of  hard  times. 
They  were  incessant,  unvarying,  blasphemous  grum- 
blers. In  an  early  year  of  Queen  Elizabeth's  reign, 
they  surpassed  themselves  in  grumbling  at  the  pro- 
digious yield  of  their  commodity,  which  had  been  so 
enormous  that  they  paid  the  pickers  half  the  crop 
for  their  trouble.  Soon  the  pickers  brought  their 
earnings  into  Walden  market,  and  were  competing 
with  the  "  crokers."  Saffron  was  "  a  drug  in  the 
market"  in  two  senses.  Merchants  could  buy  any 
amount  of  it  for  next  to  nothing;  and  in  their 
annoyance  the  "crokers"  railed  impiously  at  the 
Providence  who  had  been  so  much  too  munificent. 
The  exact  terms  in  which  the  impious  "  crokers" 
vented  their  rage  at  Saffron  Walden  market  are  on 
record,  but  they  are  too  grossly  irreverent  for  repro- 

H  2 


100  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

duction  on  this  page.  Social  sentiment  declared 
against  the  "crokers,"  who  were  henceforth  de- 
nounced as  hateful  examples  of  wicked  discontent. 
Their  impiety  became  proverbial,  and  farmers,  in 
other  departments  of  agriculture,  checked  one 
another  for  querulous  dissatisfaction,  by  saying, 
"  Come,  come,  man,  don't  be  a  *  croker.'  It  is 
enough  for  you  to  be  a  *  grumbler.'  "  The  term 
passed  quickly  from  folk-lore  to  literature;  and 
when  its  origin  had  been  lost  sight  of,  the  word  was 
confounded  by  writers  and  dictionary-makers  with 
a  word  of  Saxon  derivation.  Webster  and  Richard- 
son, cum  rrmltis  aliia  of  their  tribe,  misspell 
"  croker,"  and  refer  it  to  the  same  root  as  the 
"  croaking"  of  a  frog. 

There  was  no  trade  more  abounding  in  fraud  and 

trickery  than  the  saffron  trade.     The  Elizabethan 

crokers  used  to  dry  the  chives  on  greased  papers, 

and  put  butter  on  the  cakes  of  compressed  stigmata, 

in   order  to   give   them   a   delusive   brightness  of 

colour.     They  used  also  to  adulterate  the  genuine 

artii^le  with  ^*  scraped  brazell  and  the  floure  of  the 

Sonchus,  which,'*  says  William  Harrison,  "  cometh 

somewhat  neere  indeede  to  the  hue  of  saffron  (if  it 

be  gathered  late),  but  it  is  soon  betwraied  both  by 

the  depth  of  the  colour  and  the  hardness."     The 

presence  of  butter  in  a  sample  could  be  detected  by 

the  nice  judge  of  the  article ;  but  the  young  and  in- 


THE   SAFFBON   MRBGHANTS.  101 

experienced  dealer  was  oflen  imposed  upon  by  the 
effects  of  grease. 

Whilst  the  crokers  were  knavish  grumblers,  the 
saffron  merchants — i.e.  the  dealers  who  bought  the 
commodity  of  the  farmers — were  notable  for  the 
weakness  and  inflammatory  state  of  their  eyes, 
which  suffered  greatly  from  constant  exposure  to 
the  irritating  Aimes  of  the  spice.  In  their  shops 
they  usually  defended  their  eyes  with  large  leather- 
rimmed  spectacles ;  and  to  save  themselves  from 
inhaling  the  irritating  vapour  too  freely,  they 
*^  muffled  themselves  as  women  doo  when  they 
ride/' 

Surviving  the  Roman,  or  spoon-period,  of  English 
cookery,  the  culinary  use  of  saffron  prevailed  in  the 
earlier  generations  of  the  cuisine,  which  resulted 
from  the  introduction  of  the  fork.  Medical  preju- 
dice and  jealousy  retained  it  in  the  kitchen  long  after 
the  general  gust  for  its  flavour  had  been  weakened 
by  the  growing  preference  for  the  natural  flavours 
of  boiled  and  roasted  meats  served  in  "joints." 
Throughout  the  seventeenth  century,  saffron  held 
its  ground  as  a  condiment  and  colouring-  ingredient 
in  food;  and  in  years  of  scarcity  it  was  sold  at 
astoundingly  high  prices.  For  instance,  in  one  year 
of  James  the  First's  reign,  it  was  ordinarily  sold  at 
£3.  3^.  4(2.  per  pound,  a  rate  exceeded  in  Charles  the 
Second's  time,  when  a  pound  of  the  best  chives 


102 


A   BOOK  ABOUT  THE   TABLE. 


fetched  no  less  than  £4  Is.  lOd.*  an  amazing  price 
to  those  who  bear  in  mind  the  value  of  money  in  the 
seventeenth  century.  Perhaps  there  is  no  article  of 
fantastic  luxury  on  which  more  money  has  been 
squandered  than  on  saffron,  at  the  order  of  fashion, 
morbid  taste,  and  medical  empiricism. 

Whilst  saffron  was  still  used  by  the  cooks  of  the 
seventeenth  century,  dyers  and  laundresses  employed 
it  as  a  colouring  agent.  It  gave  to  silks  the  rich 
amber  hue  that  was  in  vogue  with  the  ladies  of 
Anne  of  Denmark's  court;  and  it  was  put  into  the 
starch  that  afforded  stiffness  and  colour  to  the 
yellow  bands  and  cuffs,  which  James  the  First  de- 
tested almost  as  vehemently  as  tobacco-smoke.  In 
the  days  of  Solomon  Stuart,  society  divided  itself 
into  two  parties,  and  fought  smartly  about  yellow- 
starched  ruffs  and  laces.  Whilst  the  one  party 
insisted  that  red,  blue,  and  purple  dyes  gave  the 

*  Lord  Braybrooke  gives  the  following  examples  of  the  flactoa- 
tions  of  the  saffron  market : — 

Prices  of  a  pound  of  Saffron. 


£    8,    d. 

£ 

».   d. 

1548 

0    12    0 

1663 

.     1 

17    0 

1561 

16    0 

1664 

.     3 

10    0 

1614 

3      3    4 

1665 

.     4 

1  10 

1631 

0    18    0 

1689 

.     3 

0    0 

1647 

12    0 

1717 

.     1 

6    6 

Fuie— Lord 

Braybrooke's    "  Hts 

TORT    OP 

AuDLET    End." 

From 

Harrison  we  learn  that  the  ordinary  price  of  saffron  in  Queen 
Elizabeth's  London  was  twenty  shillings  a-poand. 


THE   hangman's   PLUMB.  103 

proper  tints  to  such  articles  of  costume,  the  other 
party  declared  as  passionately  in  favour  of  yellow. 
But  it  was  not  in  the  power  of  the  king's  friends, 
who  called  yellow  bands  unclean,  and  the  Puritans, 
who  called  them  wicked,  to  put  the  new  starch  out 
of  fashion.  By  wearing  a  yellow  ruff  at  Tybum,  on 
the  occasion  of  her  execution  for  her  part  in  the 
murder  of  Sir  Thomas  Overbury,  Mrs.  Turner  threw 
a  transient  discredit  on  lemon-tinted  lawn  and  lace, 
just  as  Mrs.  Manning,  the  murderess  of  Victorian 
London,  put  black  satin  into  disgrace  for  a  season 
or  two  by  mounting  the  scaffold  in  a  robe  of  that 
material.  But  the  champions  of  saffron  soon  re- 
gained their  spirits.  They  only  laughed  contemp- 
tuously, and  heightened  the  yellow  of  their  starch, 
when,  to  put  them  to  shame,  it  was  ordered  that  the 
London  hangman  should  wear  on  *^  hanging  days" 
a  yellow  plume  in  his  hat,  and  a  yellow  band  round 
his  neck. 

The  culinary  use  of  saffron  died  very  gradually. 
Indeed,  even  now  it  can  scarcely  be  said  to  be 
extinct.  In  some  of  our  counties  dairywomen  still 
colour  butter  with  it.  Cheese  also,  in  some  dis- 
tricts, is  tinged  with  crocus  chives.  The  same  may 
be  said  of  the  richly  yellowed  batter-puddings  set 
on  farmers'  tables  in  the  West  of  England,  where 
saffron-bread  and  saffron -cake  may  still  be  seen. 
The  large  buns   of  Befreshment  Room    cookery, 


04  A  BOOK  ABOUT  TOE  TABLE. 

which  are  so  much  richer  to  the  eye  than  the  palate, 
derive  their  "eggy  look"  from  a  discreet  and 
delusive  use  of  the  ancient  dye.  Following  in 
the  wake  of  the  cooks,  our  doctors  relinquished 
the  use  of  saffron,  as  a  remedial  agent,  in  the 
earlier  years  of  the  present  century.  Though  it 
retains  a  place  in  the  most  recent  and  scientific 
of  our  pharmacopoeias,  physicians  never  prescribe  it 
for  strictly  medicinal  ends,  and  apothecaries  use  it 
only  for  colouring  purposes.  For  the  same  object 
it  is  used  by  the  knavish  bird-sellers  of  our  London 
streets,  who  are  clever  at  changing  house-sparrows 
into  canary-birds  by  means  of  the  dye. 

Saffron  is,  of  course,  largely  used  in  the  artistic 
industries ;  but  manufacturers  and  craftsmen  pro- 
cure their  needful  supplies  of  it  from  foreign 
countries.  Relinquished  in  Essex  at  the  close  of 
the  last  century,  the  culture  of  the  Crocus  Sativus 
for  commercial  purposes  may  be  said  to  have  disap- 
peared from  England ;  though  here  and  there,  in 
the  old  saffron  districts,  cottage-gardeners  may  still 
produce  a  few  chives  for  a  strictly  local  market. 
Having  ceased  to  be  saffron -growers,  why  should 
not  English  farmers  cease  to  be  "  crokers  ?" 


105 


CHAPTER  VII. 

DEATH  IN  THE  POT,  AND  DISH-OOVERS. 

Tasiynge  and  credence  longethe  to  blode  and  birth  royalle, 
As  pope,  emperours,  emperatrioe,  and  cardjnalle, 
Kjnge,  queene,  prince  archebischoppe  in  palle, 
Duke,  erle,  and  no  mo,  >at  y  to  remembrannce  calle. 

"  Credence  is  need  and  tastynge,  for  drede  of  poysenynge. 
To  alle  officers  y-sworne,  and  grete  othe  bjr  cbargynge, 
Therfore  ecbe  man  in  office  kepe  bis  rorae  sewer,  closynge 
Gloos  bowse,  cbest,  and  gardenyan,  for  drede  of  congettynge. 

**  Steward  and  Cbamburlayne  of  a  prinoe  of  royalte. 
They  have,  knowledge  of  homages,  semice  and  fewte ; 
So  >ey  have  ouersight  of  eaery  office,  after  >eire  degree. 
By  wrytynge  >e  knowleche  and  >e  credence  to  onerse. 

"  Therefore  in  makynge  of  his  credence,  it  is  to  drede,  y  sey. 
To  mersballe,  sewer,  and  kenrere  >ey  must  allowt  alwey. 
To  teche  hym  of  his  office,  >e  credence  hym  to  prey ; 
Thus  sballe  he  not  stand  in  makynge  of  his  credence  in  no  fray," 

John  Eussell's  "Soke  of  Ntjbtu&e." 

TTEROIO  lives  are  hourly  at  the  mercy  of  the 
-"-  meanest  agents.  The  valet  may  any  night  steal 
up  to  his  lord,  and  send  him  to  the  next  world  with  a 
murderous  blow.  The  barber,  to  whom  the  king 
bares  his  throat,  may  any  morning  put  another 
sovereign  on  his  throne.  A  familiar  story  records 
how  Charles  the  Second  was  abruptly  reminded  of 
this  unpleasant  truth  by  a  teacher  who,  for  the 
lesson^  received  instant  dismissal  from  the  royal 


106  A  BOOK  ABOCT  THE  TABLE. 

service.  "  Go,  man ;  you  shall  never  shave  me 
again.  It  is  treason  to  imagine  such  a  thing/* 
exclaimed  the  "  Saviour  of  Society"  in  the  seven- 
teenth century,  to  the  poor  fool  who  had  only 
meant  to  be  funny.  Charles,  King  of  England  by 
the  Grace  of  God,  would  have  treated  in  the  same 
manner  any  confidential  and  too  communicative 
chef  who  had  reminded  him  that  it  was  easy  for  a 
malicious  cook  to  season  a  monarch's  broth  with 
arsenic. 

Fortunately  for  their  peace  of  mind,  and  their 
power  to  enjoy  the  good  things  of  this  life,  epicures 
are  seldom  troubled  with  ghastly  suspicions  of  their 
cooks*  sanity  and  good  faith.  Taking  their  soup 
trustfully,  they  presume  that  the  entrees  are  *•  all 
right,"  or  at  least  not  murderously  wrong.  And  so 
it  is  with  inferior  mortals,  who  eat  their  bread 
thankfully,  and  in  a  sure  belief  that  it  contains  no 
worse  poison  than  alum ;  but  every  now  and  then 
an  incident,  followed  by  a  Coroner's  inquest,  gives 
a  rude  shock  to  this  universal  confidence.  Gentle- 
men sometimes  die  suddenly  after  eating  mortal 
fungif  mistaken  for  wholesome  mushrooms  by  a 
careless  cook.  Death  may  lurk  in  the  dish  prepared 
by  a  culinary  misanthropist,  or  in  a  bowl  of  milk 
from  a  "  model  dairy."'  Ugly  stories  could  be  told 
of  chocolate  cakes  enriched  with  strychnine,  and 
sweetmeats    painted    with    arsenical    green.      To 


FANCIFUL   DYSPEPTICS.  107 

gather  such  tales  of  horror,  one  has  not  to  go  back 
to  the  days  and  doings  of  Maria  Margaret,  Mar- 
chioness of  Brinvilliers,  or  rake  from  anecdotical 
dustheaps  the  worst  charges  against  Emma  Hamil- 
ton. A  year  or  two  since,  the  diminutive  nurse-girl 
of  a  lowly  London  household  amused  herself  with 
sprinkling  poison  on  the  bread-and-butter  given  to 
the  children  of  whom  she  had  care.  And  just 
about  the  same  time,  murderous  lozenges  were 
thrown  broadcast  about  the  Brighton  streets  by  a 
foolish  woman,  who  just  escaped  death  on  the 
gallows  because  society  shrunk  from  hanging 
a  lady  with  a  Parisian  bonnet  and  seal-skin 
mantle. 

■ 

A  man  should  not  be  too  thoughtful  for  his 
health  when  he  is  satisfying  his  hunger.  "  Every- 
thing agrees  with  you  until  it  has  disagreed  with 
you,"  Abernethy  remarked  to  the  valetudinarian 
who  troubled  himself  overmuch  as  to  what  he  should 
eat,  drink  and  avoid.  The  malade  imaginaire,  who 
creates  dyspepsia  for  himself  out  of  nervous  fancies 
about  his  food,  should  take  the  surgeon's  counsel 
to  heart.  Wbilst  dishes  are  usually  wholesome  to 
the  eater  who  takes  their  wholesomeness  for  granted, 
the  best  &re  is  apt  to  avenge  itself  on  the  man  who 
regards  it  with  suspicion.  Enjoyment  is  impossible 
at  the  dinner-table  without  proper  confidence  in  the 
caterer  and  cook ;  and  the  man  with  a  mischievous 


]08  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

habit  of  mistrusting  them  has  travelled  some  way 
on  the  road  that  leads  to  the  hell  of  hypochondria 
and  ends  in  madness. 

Of  all  monomaniacs,  there  are  none  more  truly 
pitiable  than  the  few  wretched  people  who  sniff 
poison  in  every  culinary  savour,  and  fear  death 
from  a  sauce.  Charles  of  Brunswick  had  said  fare- 
well to  pleasure,  as  well  as  to  virtue  and  decency, 
when,  from  dread  of  assassination,  he  would  not 
taste  the  daintiest  mess  unless  it  had  been  prepared 
by  his  particular  chef,  and  was  set  before  him  in  a 
locked  plate  which  none  but  himself  and  the 
supreme  artiste  could  open.  What  gratification 
could  the  broken  and  fantastic  voluptuary  derive 
from  his  fabulous  wealth,  when,  living  only  for  this 
life,  he  had  persuaded  himself  that  his  existence 
depended  on  the  fidelity  of  the  only  servant  whom 
he  could  trust  to  cook  his  food  P  Sustained  by  the 
imaginations  of  a  guilty  conscience,  and  aggravated 
by  memories  of  deeds  which  had  made  him  an 
object  of  mortal  hatred  to  the  victims  of  his  wicked 
passions,  liie  ex-duke's  cowardly  fear  of  poison  had 
its  origiii  in  the  morbid  fastidiousness  and  timorous 
curiosity  that  often  dominate  the  failing  appetites 
of  jaded  epicures. 

But  ghastly  experience  forbade  the  potentates  of 
medisBval  Europe  to  feast  without  fear  at  any  board 
where  appetite    met  them.     The   preacher  might 


ambition's  instrument.  109 

urge  them  in  sacred  language  to  take  no  thought 
for  life ;  but  the  poisoner,  by  acts  more  impressive 
than  holy  words,  taught  them  to  be  apprehensive 
of  sudden  death.     Poison  was  the  favourite  instru- 
ment of  ambition    and   vengeance  in   olden   time. 
The  old  story  on  which  Shakespeare  founded  his 
noblest  tragedy  was  told  at  every  fireside  of  feudal 
Europe ;  and  wherever  repeated,  it  stirred  the  minds 
of  hearers  who  could  parallel  its  grand  crime  with 
a  deed  of  stealthy  murder  done   near   their   own 
homes.     Every   castle    had  its   tale   of  poisoning. 
The  annals  of  every  princely  house  covered  traditions 
which  justified  the  precautions  taken  daily  under 
every  chieftain's  roof  against  the  treachery  of  cooks 
and  servers,  carvers  and  cup-bearers.     The  lord  of 
olden  time  was  taught  by  his  own  domestic  story, 
that  death  might  come  to  him  at  any  moment  from 
poison  put  in  meat  or  drink,  fi:om  poison  in  bread 
or  salt,  from  poison  in  sauce  or  sweet-meat.     And 
to  guard  against  such  peril,  arising  from  the  anger 
of  vindictive  vassals,  or  the  designs  of  pretenders 
to  his  throne,  he  had  recourse  to  measures  which 
are  dismally  significant  of  ceaseless  dread  and  in- 
cessant treachery. 

The  fidelity  of  an  agent  must  be  purchased  with 
a  price  something  in  excess  of  any  payment  that  is 
likely  to  be  off'ered  for  his  treachery.  This  principle 
is  daily  recognized  by   men  of  business   in  *^  the 


110  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

City/*  where  confidential  servants  with  large  oppor- 
tunities for  theft  are  paid  highly,  in  order  that  they 
may  be  honest.  Of  course  out  of  proper  regard  for 
their  feelings,  it  is  always  assumed  that  "judgment " 
and  "  experience  "  are  the  qualities  so  liberally  re- 
munerated. On  several  grounds  it  would  be  unwise 
to  impress  on  a  chief  cashier  or  secretary  that  his 
large  payment,  fqr  work  which  a  simpleton  could 
do,  was  an  arrangement  to  restrain  him  from 
arrant  roguery.  But  courteous  phrases  do  not 
blind  the  cashier  and  his  paymaster  to  the  real 
purpose  of  the  munificence. 

The  same  principle  was  daily  recognized  and 
acted  upon  by  men  of  chivalry  in  feudal  England. 
In  proportion  as  he  was  likely  to  be  bribed  to 
poison  his  lord,  the  cook  was  paid  lavishly.  The 
sovereign  of  Norman  England  placed  over  his  house- 
hold a  courtier  who  had  a  strong,  selfish  interest  in 
keeping  him  alive.  Usually  a  man  of  noble  lineage, 
the  Steward  of  the  Royal  Household  was  gratified 
with  princely  bounties,  and  encouraged  with  princely 
promises.  He  was  thus  taught  to  feel  that  under 
any  circumstances  he  would  be  a  great  loser  by  his 
master's  death.  The  steward's  subordinate  officers, 
especially  those  who  held  chief  places  in  the  kitchen 
or  approached  the  royal  person  at  festal  moments, 
were  appointed  from  the  same  consideration,  and 
paid    with    the    same    prudent    prodigality.     The 


HONOURS  AND  PRIVILEGES.  Ill 

Larderarius,  always  a  gentleman,  often  a  sacred 
personage,  ranked  with  folk  of  courtly  degree.  If 
a  layman,  lie  might  hope  for  a  traitor's  forfeited 
estate  in  reward  for  his  vigilance  over  the  larder. 
If  in  holy  orders,  he  looked  to  a  bishopric  as  a 
probable  guerdon  of  his  services.  The  Dapifer  had 
even  more  splendid  hopes  from  the  faithful  per- 
formance of  duties  now-a-days  contemned  as 
servile.  The  chef,  a  man  of  noble  ancestry  and  of 
science,  according  to  the  scientific  light  and  dark- 
ness of  the  time,  seldom  retired  from  the  office  of 
"  Coquus  DominicsD  CoquinaB,"  without  a  grant  of 
lands  that  fixed  him  and  heirs  amongst  the 
territorial  magnates  of  a  shire.  The  explanation  of 
the  curious  tenures  requiring  the  holders  of  certain 
lands  to  perform,  or  be  ready  to  perform,  culinary 
service  for  the  sovereign's  comfort,*  must  be  sought 

•  "  The  Norman  Conquerer  William  bestowed  several  portions  of 
land  on  these  highly  favoured  domestics,  the  *  Coquoram  Praspo- 
situs/  and  the  '  Coquus  Begins/  A  manor  was  bestowed  on  Robert 
Argyllon,  the  *  Grand  Queux/  to  be  held  by  the  service  of  making 
one  mess  in  an  earthern  pot  in  the  kitchen  of  our  liDrd  the  King, 
on  the  day  of  his  Coronation,  called  '  De  la  Groute/  i.e.,  a  kind  of 
plum -porridge,  or  water-gruel  with  plums  in  it.  This  dish  is  still 
served  up  at  the  Eoyal  Table  at  coronations,  by  the  lord  of  the  said 
Manor  of  Addington.  At  the  Coronation  of  George  IV.,  Court  of 
Claims,  July  12,  1820,  the  petition  of  the  Archbishop  of  Canter- 
bury, which  was  presented  by  Sir  G.  Nayler,  claiming  to  perform  the 
service  of  presenting  a  dish  De  la  Groute  to  the  king  at  the  banquet, 
was  considered  by  the  Court,  and  allowed/* — Vide  De  Kitchinek's 
"  Cook's  Ojiacle/' 


112  A   BOOK   ABOUT   THE   TABLE. 

in  the  usages  of  time  when  cooks  at  court  were 
gentlemen  who  rose  to  wealth  and  dignities  in  the 
ordinary  course  of  professional  service. 

One  often  hears  indignant  language  about  the 
exorbitant  wages  paid  at  the  present  time  to  their 
cooks  by  great  men,  who  are  far  from  liberal  to 
their  children's  tutors  and  governesses.  But  it  is 
certain  that  cooks  of  the  highest  rank  are  paid  far 
less  liberally  in  modern,  than  they  were  in  strictly 
feudal  England.  Now-a-days,  a  prince's  chef  gets 
a  salary  of  some  £300  per  annum,  together  with  a 
few  trumpery  perquisites,  and  the  use  of  a  dog-cart. 
In  Norman  England  he  had  a  salary  equal  to  ten 
times  that  amount  of  modern  money,  a  large 
quantity  of  lucrative  patronage,  and  the  prospect  of 
a  noble  gift  of  lands.  As  life  grew  more  secure, 
the  chefs  fees  became  fewer  and  smaller.  In  pro- 
portion as  his  opportunities  for  murder,  and  his 
temptations  to  turn  poisoner  diminished  in  number 
and  force,  he  lost  power  over  his  patron's  purse. 
He  may  still  be  paid  above  the  dignity  of  his  labour ; 
but  the  time  has  long  passed  when  he  was  rewarded 
with  a  munificence  that  caused  gentlemen  of  quality 
to  enter  the  culinary  profession. 

Wherever  he  went,  a  feudal  potentate  of  the  higher 
degrees  was  attended  by  his  cook.  At  whatever 
table  he  sat,  the  dishes  of  which  he  partook  were 
prepared  by  the  officer  who  was  at  the  same  time 


OTHO  AT  OXTOED.  113 

his  chef  de  cuisine  and  body-guard.  The  same 
&shion  still  prevails  in  the  East,  where  princes  are 
taught  by  experience  to  regard  their  most  com- 
plaisant entertainers  with  suspicion.  Bringing  with 
him  nobles,  whom  he  could  not  have  safely  left 
at  Teheran  during  his  long  absence  from  the  seat 
of  government,  the  Shah  of  Persia  was  accompanied 
on  his  Western  tour  by  cooks  in  whose  loyalty  he 
could  confide.  The  same  retinue,  whose  splendour 
was  heightened  by  courtiers  tainted  with  disaffec- 
tion, comprised  a  stafi"  of  culinary  artistes  whose 
vigilance  gave  Nasr-ul-Deen  a  sense  of  security  from 
poison. 

Six  hundred  years  since,  when  he  visited  Oxford 
on  a  perilous  mission.  Cardinal  Otho  provided  for 
his  safety  by  retaining  a  cook,  who  was  not  more 
firmly  attached  to  him  by  interest  than  by  natural 
affection.  Originating  in  the  voluntary  association 
of  a  few  schoolmasters,  the  guild  of  teachers  had 
become  a  populous  and  famous  university,  when 
Gregory  the  Ninth's  legate  approached  it  with  a 
purpose  agreeable  to  the  policy  of  the  academic 
friars  and  monks,  but  highly  displeasing  to  the 
academic  seculars  and  laity.  ^' Universitas ''  was 
divided  just  then  into  two  great  parties  that  had 
for  years  been  striving  for  the  superiority.  The 
one  party  consisted  of  the  favourers  of  papal  pre- 
tension,  who,  in  their  desire  to   dominate  in   the 

VOL.  I.  I 


114  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

schools  and  even  exclude  the  ancient  laical  element 
of  the  community,  welcomed  the  sacred  envoy 
with  significant  enthusiasm.  The  other  and  more 
numerous  party,  consisting  of  seculars  and  laics, 
in  their  hatred  of  the  friars,  and  their  jealousy  of 
Rome,  denounced  the  legate  as  a  hostile  intruder. 
Otho  saw  his  danger,  and  prudently  appointed  his 
own  brother  to  the  important  office  of  chef  de  cuisi7ie 
to  the  embassy.  The  object  of  this  appointment  is 
specially  stated  by  Matthew  Paris,  the  contem- 
porary chronicler,  who  says  that  the  envoy's  kins- 
man was  selected  for  the  post,  "ne  procuraretur 
aliquid  venenorum,  quod  nimis  timebat  legatus." 
Otho  had  scarcely  taken  up  his  quarters  at  Oseney 
Abbey,  when  his  opponents  marched  out  from 
Oxford  to  the  religious  house  with  a  show  of  anger 
and  force,  that,  belying  their  peaceable  professions, 
quickened  the  legate's  fear,  and  justified  him  in  refus- 
ing to  give  them  an  interview.  In  the  ensuing  conflict 
which  afforded  a  momentary  advantage  to  the  turbu- 
lent scholars,  and  sent  Otho  flying  tp  Abingdon, 
the  chef  was  killed  whilst  courageously  covering 
his  brother's  retreat  from  the  studious  mob.  Whilst 
the  cook's  martial  zeal  points  to  the  two-fold  nature 
of  his  office,  his  fate  is  significant  of  the  view 
which  the  assailants  took  of  his  fimctions.  Thirst- 
ing for  the  legate's  hfe,  the  Welshman  who  shot  the 
fatal    arrow    felt  that  he  would  do  much  for  the 


TASTING.  115 

accomplisliment  of  his  purpose  by  killing  the  envoy's 
culinary  protector.  The  chef  having  been  put  out 
of  the  way,  another  cook  might  be  induced  to 
poison  the  Cardinal. 

But  when  the  raediSBval  prince  had  placed  loyal 
adherents  in  the  chief  oflBces  of  his  kitchen,  larder, 
pantry,  and  buttery,  and  had  provided  for  their 
continuance  in  fidelity,  by  assigning  them  liberal 
salaries,  he  had  only  taken  the  first  general  pre- 
cautions against  poisoners.  It  still  remained  for 
him  to  direct  the  Marshal  of  his  household  to  keep 
a  vigilant  eye  on  the  highly  paid  retainers,  and  yet 
further  to  lessen  the  chances  of  poisonous  misad- 
venture by  a  nice  and  daily  observance  of  the  "  rules 
of  the  assay."  By  these  numerous  and  cleverly 
devised  rules,  every  principal  servant,  concerned  in 
the  preparation  or  serving  of  meat  and  drink,  was 
placed  under  the  suspicious  observation  of  another 
ministrant.  It  is  needful  that  the  reader  should 
pay  particular  attention  to  the  practices  of  "  assay," 
"credence,"  or  "tasting,"  as  they  were  indif- 
ferently termed,  in  order  that  he  may  realize  the 
degree  in  which  the  fear  of  death  from  the  pot  pre- 
vailed in  feudal  society,  and  may  also  appreciate 
the  pains  taken  to  defeat  poisoners. 

The  great  man's  table  was  never  spread  without  a 
strict  observance  of  these  practices,  which  had  for 
their  object  that  he  should  eat  of  no  dish  and  drink 

I  2 


116  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE   TABLE. 

of  no  draught  that  had  not  been  previously  tested 
by  oflBcial  tasters.  When  the  cloth  had  been  laid  by 
subordinate  servants,  it  devolved  on  some  chief 
oflBcer  of  the  household — the  chief  sewer,  the  cap- 
tain of  the  yeomen,  the  dapifer,  or  the  marshal 
himself — to  see  that  every  article  on  the  table  was 
free  from  poison.  The  bread,  cut  for  the  great 
man's  mouth,  was  tested  thus.  In  the  presence  of 
the  "  taker  of  the  assay,"  the  chief  oflBcer  of  the 
pantry,  kneeling  at  the  table,  ate  a  piece  of.  the 
bread,  which  the  carver  cut  from  the  prepared 
pieces.  At  the  same  time  he  partook  of  the  salt  in 
the  lord's  salt-cellar.  To  ascertain  that  no  poison 
lurked  in  the  water  in  which  the  lord  would  wash 
his  hands,  the  yeoman  or  server  who  placed  the 
basin  on  the  board  was  required  to  drink  some  of 
the  fluid  in  the  presence  of  the  assaying  officer.  In 
like  manner  every  spoon,  knife,  or  napkin  put  on 
the  table  was  kissed  by  a  responsible  servant,  who 
thereby  certified  to  the  officer  of  assay  that  no 
murderous  powder  had  been  sprinkled  on  the  linen, 
that  no  poisonous  unguent  had  been  treacherously 
applied  to  spoon  or  knife.  These  last  named  imple- 
ments were  burnished  brightly,  out  of  regard  for  the 
lord's  peace  of  mind  no  less  than  for  the  mere 
pleasure  of  his  eye.  If  a  spoon  or  knife  were  dull, 
he  was  quick  to  suspect  that  it  was  smeared  with 
poison. 


THE   BUBNAPPE.  117 

All  these  precautions  having  been  taken  against 
the  presence  of  poison  in  the  furniture  of  the  table, 
the  salt-dish  was  covered  with  its  lid,  and  the  bread 
was  covered  with  its  napkin.  A  fair  white  pallium, 
the  surnappe,  was  then  raised  by  special  officers, 
and  put  with  much  ceremony  over  the  whole  table. 
Of  course  the  several  processes  of  this  preliminary 
assay  were  not  performed  without  much  bowing, 
kneeling,  kissing,  and  foot-scraping  by  the  gentle 
servitors.*     The  white  coverlet  having  fallen  over 

*  Of  the  formalities  observed  at  the  laying  of  the  royal  table  in 
Greenwich  Palace,  during  Qaeen  Elizabeth's  reign,  Paul  Hentzner 
gives  the  following  account  in  the  Itinerarium,  freely  Englished  by 
Horace  Walpole :  '*  A  gentleman  entered  the  room  bearing  a  rod, 
and  along  with  him  another  who  had  a  table-doth',  which,  after  they 
had  both  kneeled  three  times,  with  the  utmost  veneration,  he 
spread  upon  the  table,  and  after  kneeling  again,  they  bbth  retired. 
Then  came  two  others,  one  with  the  rod  again,  the  other  with  a 
salt-cellar,  a  plate,  and  bread ;  when  they  had  kneeled,  as  the  others 
had  done,  and  placed  what  was  brought  upon  the  table,  they  too 
retired,  with  the  same  ceremonies  performed  by  the  first.  At  last 
came  an  unmarried  lady,  (we  were  told  she  was  a  Countess),  and 
along  with  her  a  married  one,  bearing  a  tasting-knife ;  the  former 
was  dressed  in  white  silk,  who,  ^hen  she  had  prostrated  herself 
three  times,  in  the  most  graceful  manner,  approached  the  table, 
and  rubbed  the  plates  with  bread  and  salt,  with  as  much  care  as  if 
the  Queen  had  been  present ;  when  they  had  waited  there  a  little 
time,  the  Yeomen  of  the  Guard  entered  bare-headed,  oloathed  in 
scarlet  with  a  golden  rose  upon  their  backs,  bringing  in  at  each 
turn,  a  course  of  twenty-four  dishes,  served  in  plate,  most  of  it 
gilt ;  these  dishes  were  received  by  a  gentleman  in  the  same  order 
they  were  brought,  and  placed  upon  the  table,  while  the  lady-taster 


118  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

the  board,  no  one  but  the  chief  sewer  or  yeoman 
might  raise  it ;  and  even  he  might  not  presume  to 
do  so  until  the  moment  came  for  its  ceremonious 
removal  in  the  presence  of  the  lord  himself,  or  one 
of  the  supreme  officers  of  the  household.  No  serv- 
ing-man  could  prematurely  or  impertinently  touch 
the  sur-cloth  and  escape  suspicion  of  treason.  The 
page  caught  with  his  hand  under  the  white  drapery, 
was  sure  of  a  terrible  flogging  for  his  officiousness. 
In  troublous  times  he  seldom  escaped  with  so  light 
a  punishment.  To  prove  that  any  meddling  varlet, 
after  the  falling  of  the  surnappe,  had  touched  the 
covered  salt  or  covered  bread,  was  to  compass  his 
quick  dismissal  to  the  hangman. 

The  time  for  "  serving  the  meats"  having  come, 
the  chief  sewer,  or  other  officer  of  the  assay,  went 
to  the  kitchen  dresser,  and  tested  the  loyalty  of  the 
steward  and  cook.     Having  cut  a  cornet  of  bread, 

gave  to  each  gnard  a  mouthful  to  eat,  for  fear  of  poison.  During 
the  time  that  this  guard,  which  consists  of  the  tallest  and  stoutest 
men  that  can  be  found  in  all  England,  being  oarefuUy  selected  for 
this  service,  were  bringing  dinner,  twelve  trumpets  and  two  kettle- 
drums made  the  hall  ring  for  half  an  hour  together.  At  the  end  of 
all  this  ceremonial,  a  number  of  unmarried  ladies  appeared,  who 
with  particular  solemnity  lifted  the  meat  off  the  table,  and  conveyed 
it  into  the  Queen's  inner  and  more  private  chamber,  where  after  she 
had  chosen  for  herself,  the  rest  goes  to  the  ladies  of  the  court.  The 
Queen  sups  and  dines  alone  with  very  few  attendants,  and  it  is  very 
seldom  anybody,  foreigner  or  native,  is  admitted  at  that  time,  and 
then  only  at  the  intercession  of  some  one  in  power.** 


THE   ASSAY.  119 

he  touched  the  first  dish  with  it  in  three  places,  and 
then  saw  the  steward  and  chef  eat  it.  With  a  fresh 
cornet  for  each  dish  of  soup,  porridge,  hotch-pot, 
or  other  mess  containing  much  liquor,  he  repeated 
this  ceremony  again  and  again,  until  he  had  seen 
the  cook  and  steward  eat  as  many  triangular  pieces 
of  bread  as  there  were  dishes  of  fluid  compounds  for 
the  lord's  table.  Each  cornet  was  dipped  thrice  in 
the  dish  under  assay ;  and  the  sewer  flourished  it 
thrice  over  his  head  before  putting  it  to  the  lips  of 
the  two  chief  ofl&cers  of  the  kitchen.  Together  with 
each  cornet,  the  steward  and  cook  were  required  to 
eat  a  piece  of  the  meat  of  the  dish  in  which  it  had 
been  dipped.  A  morsel  from  each  of  the  substan- 
tial viands  was  given  to  both  of  them,  so  that  they 
ate  of  every  "stew,"  "roast,"  "boil,"  "broil," 
"  made  dish,"  "  porridge,"  or  "  sauce"  that  passed 
from  their  dresser.  The  same  precautions  were 
taken  with  the  closed  pies,  each  of  which  was 
opened,  in  order  that  its  two  responsible  makers 
should  eat  of  it.  Every  preparation,  from  the  soups 
to  the  sweetmeats,  from  the  brawn  to  the  jellies, 
was  tested  with  the  same  formality.  Not  a  single 
eatable  thing*  left  the  kitchen  dresser  until  it  had 
been  assayed. 

*  **  In  the  mean  tyme  the  server  goeth  to  the  dresser,  and  there 
taketh  assay  of  every  dyshe,  and  doth  geve  it  to  the  stewarde  and 
the  cooke  to  eat  of  all  porreges,  mustards,  and  other  saaoes.    He 


120  A  BOOK   ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

As  soon  as  it  bad  been  duly  assayed,  each  dish 
was  covered,  and  put  into  the  hands  of  the  servitor, 
whose  duty  it  was  to  bear  it  to  the  table.  It  should 
be  particularly  observed  that  each  dish,  whether  hot 
or  cold,  was  covered.  The  bearer  was  bound  to 
carry  it  directly  to  the  banqueting-room.  Even 
though  the  metal  dish  burnt  his  hands,  he  might  not 
set  it  down  for  a  moment.  To  stop  on  his  way  was 
to  expose  himself  to  suspicion  of  tampering  with  the 
dish.  If  he  ventured  to  raise  the  cover,  the  worst 
construction  was  put  upon  the  act,  for  the  cover  of 
a  hot  dish  was  used  to  keep  out  poison,  rather  than 
to  keep  in  heat.  In  the  case  of  a  cold  dish,  the 
only  use  of  the  cover  was  to  guard  its  contents 
against  poisoners.  So  that  the  heat  of  a  silver  dish, 
containing  a  hot  mess,  might  not  trouble  him  in  the 
performance  of  his  duty,  the  bearer,  a  gentle  servant, 
sworn,  like  his  official  superiors,  to  do  his  work 

taketh  assay  with  oometts  of  trenoher  bread  of  his  own  cuttyng,  and 
that  is  thus :  He  taketh  a  cornet  of  bread  in  his  hande,  and  toucheth 
three  parts  of  the  di^he,  and  maketh  a  floryshe  oyer  it,  and  giveth 
it  to  the  aforenamed  persons  to  eate,  and  of  every  stewed  meate, 
rested,  boylde,  or  broyled,  beying  fyshe  or  fleshe,  he  outteth  a  little 
thereof,  &o.  And  yf  it  be  baked  meat  close,  unclose  it,  and  take 
assaye  thereof,  as  ye  do  of  sawoes,  and  that  is  with  cometts  of 
breade,  and  so  with  all  other  meates,  as  costards,  tartes,  gelly, 
with  other  snch  lyke.  The  ministers  of  the  churche  doth  after  the 
olde  cnstome,  in  syngyng  of  some  proper  or  godly  caroll." — Vide 
TuE  Inthjblonization  of  Abchbishop  Neyill.     Temp.  Edwabd  thb 

FOUBIH. 


BEFORE  THE  HIGH  TABLE.  121 

faithfiilly,  would  guard  his  hands  with  a  layer  of 
crumbs  of  bread,  taking  care  to  hold  the  bread  so 
that  it  was  not  visible.  Sewers  are  particularly 
instructed  on  this  last  point  in  one  of  the  most  note- 
worthy passages  of  the  "  Boke  of  Ourtasye*  (a.d. 
1430—40.) 

As  each  dish  was  brought  to  the  table,  it  was 
again  tasted  by  an  ofl&cer  of  assaye,  in  the  presence 
of  the  august  persons  who  eventually  consumed  it. 
The  marshal,  the  chief  sewer,  and  the  carver  having 
made  solemn  reverences  to  the  high  table,  and  taken 
proper  positions  before  it,  each  act  of  the  grand 
assay  before  the  table  was  performed  ceremoniously, 
whilst  grace  and  carols  were  chanted.  The  marshal 
standing,  the  sewer  on  his  knees,  received  from  the 
carver  a  succession  of  comets  dipped  in  the  fluid 

*  The  Author  of  "  The  Boke  of  Ourtasye  "  Bays, 

**  This  wyle  >o  squyer  to  kechyn  shall  go. 
And  brynges  a  bof  for  assay  |>o ; 
Tho  Coke  assayes  )>e  mete  ungri^t, 
Tho  sewer  he  takes  and  kouers  on  ryjt ; 
Wo  so  euer  he  takes  )>at  mete  to  here, 
Schalle  not  so  hardy  ]>o  couerture  rere, 
Por  cold  ne  bote,  I  wame  you  alle, 
For  suspecyon  of  treson  as  may  befalle.  * 
Yf  >o  syluer  dysshe  wylle  algate  brenne, 
A  sotelt^  I  wylle  >e  kenne. 
Take  >e  bredde  coruyn  and  lay  by-twene. 
And  kepe  \>e  welle  hit  be  not  sene; 
I  teche  hit  for  no  ourtayse, 
But  for  >yn  ese. 

Vide,  "  The  Bous  op  Cuetaste." 


122  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

preparations,  and  pieces  of  raeat  cut  from  the  other 
viands,  just  as  the  steward  and  cook  had  been 
shortly  before  fed  by  the  sewer  from  each  dish  at 
the  kitchen  di-esser.  When  the  sewer  knelt  the 
dish-bearer  knelt,  and  when  the  sewer  rose  from 
his  knee  the  bearer  stood  erect.  Having  removed 
the  cover,  which  had  been  put  on  the  dish  in  the 
kitchen,  the  carver,  duly  dipjung  and  flourishing 
each  cornet  of  bread,  fed  the  sewer  with  the  com- 
pound which  he  had  sent  to  the  hall.  At  the  same 
time  the  carver  gave  a  dipped  cornet  or  testing- 
piece  of  the  viand  to  the  dish-bearer ;  so  that  if  the 
server  had  sent,  or  the  bearer  carried,  a  poisoned 
dish,  he  would  suffer  for  it  rightly  under  the  eyes 
of  his  lord.  No  dish  passed  from  the  bearer's 
hands  to  the  table  until  it  had  been  so  assayed  on 
the  persons   of  bearer    and  sewer.*     The   dishes 

*  Then  the  marshall  standeth  styll,  and  the  sewer  kneeleth  on  his 
knee  besydes  the  carver,  who  receaveth  every  dyshe  in  coarse  of 
kynde,  and  nncovereth  them.  Then  the  carver  of  all  potages  and 
sauces  taketh  assay  with  a  comet  of  trencher  bread  of  his  owne 
cuttying,  he  toucheth  three  partes  of  the  dishe,  and  maketh  a 
floorishe  over  it,  and  geveth  it  to  the  sewer,  and  to  the  bearer  of  the 
dyshe ;  and  yf  it  be  any  manor  of  fowle,  take  the  assaye  thereof  at 
the  ontsyde  of  the  thygh  or  wynge ;  and  yf  it  be  any  baked  meat, 
that  is  closed,  uncover  hym,  and  take  assays  therof  with  comettes 
dypt  into  the  gravy,  and  geve  it  to  the  sewer,  ut  supra.  And  of  all 
custardes,  tartes,  march-paynes,  or  gelly  take  assay  with  cornetts. 
And  of  all  subtleties  or  leches,  with  your  brode  knyfe  a  litle  of,  and 
geve  it  to  the  sewer  and  bearer,  nt  supra." — Vide,  **Th£  Inthboni- 

ZAIION  OP  A&CHBISHOF  NXVILL." 


DISHES   OF   CBEDENCB.  123 

having  been  thus  "assayed"  by  "tasting,"  they 
became  "  dishes  of  credence,"  i.6.,  the  lord  might 
trust  them  as  fit  for  his  diet. 

But  the  usages  of  the  assay  were  not  over  when 
the  board  was  at  length  covered  with  dishes.  The 
fish  and  flesh  having  been  served,  the  cover  was 
taken  from  the  salt,  which  was  forthwith  tested  by 
the  chief  panter  in  his  lord's  presence. 

Every  cup  of  drink  served  to  the  great  man  was 
in  hke  manner  assayed  twice,  once  in  the  buttery 
and  again  in  the  hall.  In  the  buttery  tlie  butler 
was  required  to  drink,  under  the  marshal's  eye, 
some  of  every  vessel  of  Uquor  sent  to  the  high 
table ;  and  at  the  same  place  the  marshal  covered 
with  its  Ud  every  cup,  before  committing  it  to  the 
lord's  cup-bearer.  It  was  treason  for  a  cup-bearer 
to  raise  the  lid  of  a  vessel  thus  confided  to  him,  on 
his  way  from  the  buttery  to  the  table ;  but  a  sip 
of  liquor  came  to  his  lips  before  his  lord  took  a 
draught.  On  serving  his  master  the  cup-bearer 
knelt,  removed  the  lid,  and  then  poured  a  little  of 
the  drink  into  the  inverted  cover.*     When  he  had 

'  *  In  the  mean  tyme  the  marshall  goeth  to  the  battery,  to  see  the 
covered  cap  be  right  served,  and  geaeth  to  the  batler  his  assay,  and 
delyvereth  to  the  cap-bearer  the  cap  of  estate,  and  when  the  cap- 
bearer  commeth  to  the  table,  after  his  obeysaance,  he  kneeleth  on 
his  knee,  and  pntteth  foorth  three  or  foar  droppes  of  ale  into  the 
insyde  of  the  coyer  of  the  oappe,  and  sappes  it  of  for  his  assaye 
Then  he  settee  the  cap  besydes  the  Lord  and  covereth  it,  and  then 


124         A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

drunk  the  liquor  from  the  thel  lid,  which  became  for 
the  moment  a  drinking-oup,  the  servant  handed  the 
cup  of  estate  to  his  master,  who,  on  seeing  the 
liquor  thus  tasted,  and  assayed  under  his  eyes, 
accepted  it  as  a  liquor  of  "credence,"  which  he 
might  drink  trustfully. 

At  the  conclusion  of  the  meal,  the  assayed 
surnappe  was  ceremoniously  drawn  over  the  high 
table,  and  napkins  were  given  to  the  lord  and  his 
chief  guests  by  ministrants,  who  kissed  the  linen, 
to  signify  its  freedom  from  poison.  Having  washed 
their  hands  and  lips  in  assayed  water,  and  dried 
them  on  the  assayed  cloths,  the  potentate  and  his 
friends  retired  from  the  banqueting-room. 

It  is  obvious  that  several  minutes  were  occupied 
by  the  usages  of  assay ;  but  whilst  their  observance 
afforded  abundant  time  for  the  orderly  setting  out 

all  the  Table  is  served  with  Ale.^^'Vide,  "  The  Inthbokization  o? 

ABCHBISHOF  NEVU.L." 

"  As  oft  as  )>e  kerver  fettys  drynke, 
ThiB  butler  assayes  hit  how  good  hym  thynke. 
In  >e  lordys  cnpp  >at  lenys  undrynken, 
Into  l>e  almesdisshe  hit  schalle  be  soaken, 
The  kerver  anon  with-outen  thouzt,  • 

Unkoners  >e  cup  hat  he  have  brou^t ; 
Into  he  couertoure  wyn  he  powres  out. 
Or  into  a  spare  pece,  withouten  doute ; 
Assayes,  an  gefes  l>e  lords  to  drynke. 
Or  setles  hit  donn  as  hym  goode  thynke." 

Vide,  "The  Boke  or  Cuetaste/' 


DEAWINQ  THE   LINE.  125 

of  the  numerous  dishes  of  the  several  courses, 
measures  were  taken  to  render  the  unavoidable 
delay  as  little  irksome  as  possible  to  the  feasters. 
Whilst  the  dishes  of  the  first  course  were  being 
assayed,  the  clerks  sung  an  elaborate  grace,  or 
after  *•  the  olde  custome,"  chanted  "  some  proper 
and  Godly  caroll."  Music  of  the  same  kind  diverted 
the  guests,  whilst  the  dishes  of  the  second  and 
third  courses  were  submitted  to  "  the  tasting." 
And,  doubtless,  the  jester  seized  his  opportunity 
for  throwing  out  saucy  speeches,  and  provoking 
laughter  during  these  pauses  in  the  pleasures  of  the 
table. 

Whilst  these  precautions  against  murder  were 
taken  at  every  meal  by  personages  of  high  estate, . 
men  of  low  degree  ate  the  porridge  without  dread. 
But  it  is  uncertain  at  what  social  line  the  usages  of 
the  assay  were  neglected.  John  Eussell,  indeed, 
in  the  "  Boke  of  Nurture,"  declares  that  "  credence" 
pertained  to  no  person,  whose  dignity  was  beneath 
that  of  an  earl ;  a  statement  implying  that,  at  least 
in  Russell's  opinion,  the  territorial  lord  was  guilty 
of  ludicrous  presumption  and  a  heinous  offence 
against  etiquette,  who,  being  lower  than  an  earl, 
required  the  viands  of  his  peculiar  table  to  be 
submitted  to  the  assay.  But  remembering  the 
pleasure  which  people  of  the  inferior  degrees  of 
gentility  find  in  copying  the  feshions  of  their  social 


126         A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

betters,  the  reader  will  doubtless  think  it  probable 
that,  in  the  absence  of  an  express  law  forbidding 
the  assay  at  the  tables  of  the  lower  quality, 
"  credence"  was  commonly  practised  in  the  kitchens 
and  banqueting-rooms  of  manorial  seigniors  and 
simple  knights,  whose  wealth  was  more  considerable 
than  their  heraldic  distinctions.  Russell,  be  it  re- 
membered, was  the  chamberlain  and  marshal  of  the 
good  Duke  Humphrey,  of  Gloucester,  who  was  in  his 
day  a  superbly  lavish  entertainer,  though  his  name 
has  long  since  passed  into  a  proverbial  pleasantry 
which,  commemorating  in  olden  time  his  princely 
munificence  to  scholars,  has  in  these  later  genera- 
tions been  generally  misconstrued  to  the  discredit 
of  his  hospitality.  As  the  chamberlain  and  major- 
domo  of  "A  kyiiges  sone,  uncle  to  the  kynge," 
it  is  probable  that  John  Russell  "  drew  the  line" 
beneath  which  "credence"  could  not  be  rightly 
observed,  much  higher  in  the  table  of  precedence 
than  it  would  have  been  drawn  by  the  chief  servitor 
of  many  a  "  right  worthy  knight." 

Anyhow,  the  usages  of  the  assay  were  cere- 
moniously performed,  after  the  fashions  set  forth, 
in  all  the  princely  and  greatly  noble  houses  of 
mediasval  England.  They  were  also  observed  in 
such  establishments  throughout  the  strictly  feudal 
period  of  our  history.  Indeed  they  survived 
feudalism,  and  are  still  commemorated  in  the  titles 


YEOMEN  OP  THE  MOUTH.  127 

of  courtly  servants  and  the  customs  of  royal 
kitchens.  Writing  towards  the  close  of  the  last 
century,  the  Reverend  Richard  Warner  observed 
that  the  two  "  yeomen  of  the  mouth,"  still  main- 
tained on  the  royal  establishment  of  St.  James's 
Palace,  were  the  official  successors  of  the  gentle 
serving-men,  who,  in  ancient  days,  tested  with 
their  own  lips  the  meat  and  driuk  offered  to 
princely  feasters. 

No  sovereign  of  comparatively  modem  time  had 
more  reason  to  fear  poisoners,  and  take  continual 
precaution  against  them  than  the  virgin-queen  of 
England  whose  capital  harboured  scores  of  religious 
zealots,  hopeful  to  win  salvation  by  taking  her  life. 
And  that  she  employed  the  most  important  of  the 
ancient  measures  for  excluding  death  from  the  pot, 
we  know  from  the  graphic  page  of  the  most  amusing 
**  literary  tourist "  of  the  sixteenth  century.  When 
he  visited  England  in  1598,  Paul  Hentzner  went 
down  to  Greenwich  by  a  boat  which  occasioned 
much  commotion  and  noise  amongst  the  flocks  of 
swans*  that  whitened  the  surface  of  the  river.  On 
landing,   the  traveller   went  to  Greenwich  Palace, 

•  "  This  river,"  says  Hentzner,  whose  Latin  record  of  his  stay  in 
England  was  loosely  Englished  hy  Horace  Walpole,  '*  abounds  in 
swans,  swimming  in  flocks ;  the  sight  of  them  and  their  noise  is 
vastly  agreeable  to  the  fleets  that  meet  them  in  their  course." 
'*  Olores  antem,"  runs  the  original  narrative,  "  agminatim,  IsBto 
occorsa  et  festivis  cantibns  sabenntes  classes  recipiant,  ac  nndique 


128  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

and  saw  the  fast-aging  queen  take  the  chief  meal 
of  the  day.  Gorgeously-clad  in  red  jackets,  em- 
bellished with  golden  roses,  the  buffetiers  brought 
the  viands  from  the  kitchen  to  the  banquetting- 
chamber  on  silver  or  silver-gilt  dishss.  The  German 
spectator  was  delighted  with  the  brave  costume, 
and  superb  stature  of  the  gentle  side-board-men, 
who  were  the  tallest  and  comeliest  fellows  in  the 
whole  country.  Twelve  trumpeters  and  two 
drummers  played  martial  music  in  the  great  hall, 
whilst  the  dishes  were  being  arranged  on  the  high- 
table.  And  as  each  buffetier  approached  the  dais, 
he  paused  before  a  lady-in-waiting,  the  Praegustatrix, 
who  assayed  the  dish  in  his  hands  by  giving  him  a 
mouthful  of    its  contents.*    The    viands    having 

retia    Bilnris     atqne     salmonibus     expandaatar/'— FtcZe     Fauli 
Hentznebi  "  Itikerabium." 

*  "Camque  pabolam  oommorata  ad  znensam  esset,  venerant 
satellites  regii,  omnes  oapite  nudi,  sagis  rnbris  indati,  qaibna  in 
posticA  parte  erant  affix»  ro8»  auresa,  singulis  vicibus  xxiy  messes 
fercalomm,  in  patinis  argenteis  et  maxima  exparte  deauratis, 
adferentes;  ab  his  nobilis  qnidam  ordine  oibos  aooepit  et  mensas 
imposuit ;  pnagustatrix  vero,  cuilibet  satelliti,  ex  eadem,  qnam  ipse- 
met  attulerat»  patinft,  bnocellam  degnstandam  prssbuit,  ne  aliqua 
Teneni  snbesset  saspicio.  Dum  satellites  isti,  qtd  centum  numero, 
prooera  corporis  staturft,  et  omnium  robustissimi  ex  toto  Angliss 
regno,  ad  hoc  munus  summ&  cnra  deliguntnr,  supradictos  cibos  ad- 
portarent,  erant  in  aula  area  xii  Tubicines,  et  duo  Tjmpanistsa, 
qui  tubis,  bucdnis,  et  tympanis  magno  sonitu  per  sesquihoram 
(dangebant ;  csBremoniis  autem,  modo  commemoratis,  circa  mensam 
absolutis,  aderant  illis  virgines  aliquot  nobiles,  que  singulari  cum 


i 


COVERS   AND   POT-LIDS.  129 

been  thus  essayed  and  placed  upon  the  table, 
maids  of  honour  (virgines  aliquot  nobiles)  entered 
the  banqueting-chamber,  and  taking  the  dishes  in 
their  hands  bore  them  to  an  inner  room,  where  the 
queen  ate  her  dinner  under  the  observation  of  a 
few  ladies  and  gentlemen  of  the  court  who  stood 
before  her. 

From  what  has  been  said  of  the  care  taken  by 
assayers  to  cover  the  tasted  meats  and  drinks, 
readers  may  see  the  original  purpose  of  dish-covers 
and  pot-lids,  which  were  mere  guards  against  poison. 
It  also  appears  from  the  instruction  given  to  cup- 
bearers by  the  author  of  the  "  Boke  of  Curtasye," 
that  the  lid  of  a  cup  of  estate  was  not  attached  to 
the  vessel,  as  the  cup-bearer,  after  removing  the 
cover  and  inverting  it,  was  required  to  use  it  as  a 
drinking-cup.  ^ 

veneratione,  cibos  de  mensa  auferebant,  et  in  interius  et  secretius 
BeginsB  cnbibiilum  adportabant :  Eligere  ibi  Eegina  solet  quos  Tult, 
caBteri  pro  GynsBceo  servantnr.  Prandet  et  csBnat  sola  paucis  astan- 
tibus. — Vide  Pattli  Hentzneri,  J.  C,  "Itinerabium  Gebmakus, 
Gallls,  Ai?6lle,  Italic." 

Horace  Walpole's  English  rendering  of  this  specimen  of  Hentzner's 
Latin  has  been  given  in  a  previous  note.  In  the  dress  of  these  buffetiers 
of  Greenwich  Palace,  the  reader  recognizes  the  ancient  costume  of 
the  "  beef-eaters"  of  the  Tower  of  London.  In  the  seventeenth  century 
the  beef-eater's  bright  jacket  bore  only  the  English  rose.  It  received 
the  additional  adornment  of  the  thistle  when  the  Stuart  came  to  the 
throne.    The  shamrock  leaves  were  added  at  a  still  later  date. 


VOL.  I.  K 


130 


CHAPTER  Vni, 

MEDIEVAL   MENUS. 

**  The  messes  both  in  the  KoU  and  the  Editor's  MS.  are  chiefly 
Bonps,  potages,  ragouts,  hashes,  and  the  like  hotch-potches ;  entire 
joints  of  meat  being  liever  served,  and  animals,  whether  fish  or 
fowl,  seldom  brought  to  table  whole,  but  hacked  and  hewed,  and  cut 
in  pieces  or  gobbets.  The  mortar  was  also  in  great  request,  some 
messes  being  actually  denominated  from  it,  as  mortrews  or  mor- 
terelys." — Vide  Samuel  Pegge  on  "  The  Forme  op  Cubt." 

*'  Of  alle  manor  metes  ye  must  thus  know  and  fele, 

The  fumosities  of  fysch,  flesche  and  fowles  dyners  and  feele. 

And  alle  manor  of  sawcos  for  fische  and  flesche  to  preserve  your 

lord  in  heale ; 
To  yow  it  belongyth  to  know  alle  )>ese  euery  deale." 

Vide  "  The  Boke  op  Nukture." 

THE  mediaBval  menus  for  stately  banquets  com- 
prised three  courses,,  with  from  eight  or  ten  to 
twenty  or  more  different  viands  in  each  course. 
Inferior  dinners  often  had  but  two  courses :  and  a 
homely  entertainer  incurred  no  charge  of  niggardli- 
ness if  his  bill  of  fare  consisted  of  a  single  course  of 
many  dishes.  But  in  "  high  life,"  from  the  Con- 
quest to  the  Reformation,  the  table  was  covered 
three  times  at  a  ceremonious  feast ;  and  it  was 
usual,  at  least  in  times  subsequent  to  the  opening 
of  the  fifteenth  century,  to  prelude  the  first  course 
with  some  such  whet  as  brawn  served  with  mustard- 


THREE    COCRSES.  131 

sauce,  and  a  glass  of  Malmsey  (if  brawn  was  no 
part  of  the  first  course),  and  to  follow  up  the  third 
course  with  a  wafer  and  comforting  fillip  of  hippocras, 
the  favourite  liqueur  of  our  olden  epicures.  The 
preliminary  whet  and  concluding  fillip  were,  in  the 
language  of  oooks,  "given  out  of  course."  The 
menus  at  Henry  the  Fourth's  nuptials  with  Jane  of 
Navarre,  and  at  Henry  the  Fifth's  marriage  with 
Catharine  of  France,  like  the  stateliest  bills  of  fare 
set  forth  in  John  Russell's  "  Boke  of  Nurture," 
comprised  three  courses.  The  same  was  the  provi- 
sion for  the  chief  tables  at  the  Inthronization  of 
Archbishop  Neville  and  Archbishop  Warham. 

At  Henry  the  Fourth's  bridal  feast,  a  feast  of 
several  days  and  many  separate  regalememts,  there 
was  a  fish  menu  and  a  flesh  menu;  the  one  for 
banquets  on  fish-days,  and  the  other  for  repasts  on 
flesh-days.  Following  a  bad  leader,  Mr.  Warner 
has  regarded  these  separate  menus  as  parts  of 
the  same  bill  of  fare,  and  inferred  erroneously 
that  the  nuptial  dinner  had  six  courses,  a  pro- 
cedure unknown  to  the  culinary  authorities  of  the 
period. 

The  flesh-menu  was  as  follows  : — 

The  First  Course. — 1.  Fillets  of  meat,  rolled,  fried 
in  bread-crumbs,  and  powdered  with  dried  herbs 
and  galyngale.  2.  A  standing  compote  of  ground 
rice,  honey,  salted  mulberries,  flavoured  with  spices 

K  2 


132  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

and  wine.  3.  Hotchpot  of  common  meats,  such  as 
beef,  mutton,  veal.  4.  Young  swans.  5.  Fat 
capons.  6.  Pheasants.  7.  Fat  puddings  of  minced 
meat  in  crust.     8.  A  subtlety. 

The  Second  Course. — 1.  Hashed  venison  with  fru- 
menty.    2.    Jelly.      3.    Sucking-pigs,     4.   Kabbits. 

5.  Bittern.  6.  Stuffed  puleyng  (whatever  that  may 
be).  7.  Fried  leaches,  made  chiefly  of  cream, 
sugar,  isinglass,  and  almonds.  8.  Boiled  brawns, 
i.e.,  pieces  of  flesh  of  swine  and  other  creatures. 
9.  A  subtlety. 

The  Third  Course. — 1.  Almond-cream.  2.  Pears 
in  syrup.  3.  Roast  venison.  4.  Ryde.  5.  Wood- 
cockes.  6.  Plovers.  7.  Rabbits.  8.  Quails. 
9.  Snipes.  10.  Fieldfares.  11.  A  meat  (probably 
game)  pie.  12.  Sturgeon.  13.  Fritters.  14.  A 
subtlety. 

For  fish-feasts,  the  following  bill  of  fare  was  pro- 
vided : — 

The  First  Course. — 1.  Viand  Royal:  the  standing 
compote  of  rice,  honey,  and  salted  mulberries,  that 
figured  in  the  first  course  of  the  flesh-menu. 
2.  Lombardy  mess  of  divers  fiish.  3.  Salt-fish. 
4.    Lampreys    powdered    with    spices.      5.    Pike. 

6.  Bream.  7.  Roasted  salmon.  8.  Lombardy  fish- 
pie.     9.  A  subtlety. 

The  Second  Course. — 1.  Hashed  porpoise  with 
frumenty.      2.    Jelly.      3.    Bream.      4.     Salmon. 


A  PISH   DINNBE.  133 

6.  Conger-eels.     6.  Gurnards.     7.  Plaice.     8.  Lam- 
prey.pie.     9.  Fried  leaches.     10.  A  subtlety. 

The  Third  Course. — 1.  Almond  cream.  2.  Pears 
in  syrup.  3.  Tench,  two  in  a  dish.  4.  Trout. 
5.  Fried  flounders.     6.  Perch.     7.  Roast  lamprey. 

8.  Lochys  and  colys    (whatever    they    may    be). 

9.  Sturgeon.      10.    Crabs,    crayfish,   and  lobsters. 
11.  Graspeys  (sic).    12.  A  subtlety. 

At  the  nuptial  banquets  of  Henry  the  Fifth  and 
Catharine,  the  fish-menu  was  this  : — 

The  First  Course. — 1.  Brawn  and  mustard. 
2.  Eels.  3.  Frumenty.  4.  Pike  with  herbs.  5.  Lam- 
prey powdered  with  spices.  6.  Trout.  7.  Codlings. 
8.  Fried  plaice.  9.  Fried  whitings.  10.  Crabs. 
11.  A  Lombardy  leach,  flourished.  12.  Fish-pies, 
i.e.,  hotch-potches  of  fish  served  in  crust.  13.  A 
subtlety,  representing  a  peUcan  on  a  nest  with  her 
birds,  and  Saint  Catherine  holding  a  book,  and 
disputing  with  the  doctors;  in  Catherine's  hand 
"  a  reson,"  inscribed,  "  Madame  la  Eoyne,"  whilst 
from  the  pehcan's  mouth  issued  a  scroll  inscribed, 
"  Ce  est  la  signe,  et  du  Roy,  pur  tenir  joy,  et  a  tout 
sa  gent  elle  mete  sa  intent." 

The  Second  Course. — 1.  Jelly  dyed  with  columbine 
flowers.  2.  White  pottage  or  almond-cream.  3.  Sea- 
bream.  4.  Conger-eels.  5.  Soles.  6.  Chevin. 
7.  Broiled  roach.  8.  Fried  smelts.  9.  Lobster 
or  crayfish.     10.   Leaches  with   Damascus  cakes. 


134  A   BOOK  ABOUT  THE   TABLE. 

flourished  with  **  une  sans  plus."  11.  Baked  lam- 
preys. 12.  Flampaynes*  flourished  with  an  heraldic 
device,  i.e.,  **  a  scutcheon  royal,  containing  three 
crowns  of  gold,  and  planted  with  fleurs  de  lis  and 
flowers  of  enamel  wrought  with  confections."  13.  A 
subtlety :  **  a  panter,  with  an  image  of  Saynte 
Katherine  with  a  whole  in  her  hande,  and  a  roUe 
wyth  a  reason  in  her  other  hande,  saying,  "  La 
Royne  ma  file  in  ceste  ile  par  bon  reson  aves 
renount." 

The  Third  Cov/rse. — Dates  in  compost,  i.e.,  fruit 
mince- meat.  2.  Mottled  cream.  3.  Carp,  fried 
with  oil,  bread-crumbs  and  onions.  4.  Turbot. 
5.  Tenche.  6.  JPerch.  7.  Fresh  sturgeon  with 
welkes.  8.  Boast  porpoise.  9.  Crayfish.  10.  Prawns. 
11.  Eels  roasted  with  lampreys.  12.  A  white 
leach,  embellished  with  hawthorn  leaves  and  red 
bramble-berries.  13.  A  marchpayne,  i.e.,  grand 
cake,  garnished  with  figures  of  angels,  and  an  image 
of  St.  Catherine,  holding  the  motto,  "  H  est  escrit 
par  voir  et  eit,  per  marriage  pur,  cest  guerre  ne 
dure."  14.  A  subtlety  (thus  described  in  the  old 
record)  :  "  A  tiger,  lookynge  in  a  myrour,  and  a 
man  syttynge  on  horsebacke,  clone  armyd,  holdynge 

•  Flaumpeyns. — ^Take  fat  pork  ysode.  Pyke  it  dene.  Grynde  it 
smalle.  Grynde  obese,  and  do  thereto ;  with  sugar,  and  gode  pow- 
ders make  a  oofiyn  gf  an  inche  depe,  and  do  this  fars  therein. 
Make  a  thynne  foile  of  gode  paste  and  kerve  out  thereof  smale  pointes. 
Fry  ham  fars,  and  bake  it  up  on. 


i 


A  DYNBEE  OF  PLESOHB-  135 

in  hys  armes  a  tyger  whelpe  with  this  reason,  *  Par 
force  sanz  reson  je  ay  prise  cest  beste ;'  and  with  his 
one  hande  makynge  a  countenance  of  throwynge  of 
myrrours  at  the  great  tigre,  the  which  hold  thys 
reson,  *  Oile  de  mirrcmr  ma  fete  distour.* " 

Special  inquirers  having  been  told  where  they 
may  find  fuller  particulars  concerning  the  arrange- 
ments of  the  English  dinner- table  in  the  fourteenth 
and  fifteenth  centuries,  there  is  no  need  to  burden 
these  pages  with  many  bills  of  fare;  but  general 
readers  will  Uke  to  glance  at  the  menus  set  forth  in 
the  "  Boke  of  Nurture  "  by  the  greatest  authority 
of  his  day  on  all  matters  of  courtly  feeding.  For 
"  a  dynere  of  flesche,"  John  Russell  directs  : — 

"  The  Pubst  Ootjksb^ 
"  Farst  set  for  the  mnstard  and  brawne  of  boore,  >e  wild  swyne, 
Such  potage  as  )>e  cooke  hath  made  of  yerbis,  spioe,  and  wyne^ 
Beeff,  moton,  stewed  feysawnd.  Swan  with  the  Chawdwyfi, 
Capoum,  pigge,  vensoun  bake,  leche  lombard,  fratnre  yiaont  fyne; 

And  >an  a  Sotelte : 
Maydofi  mary  |>at  holy  yirgyne, 
«  And  Gabrielle  gretynge  hnr  with  an  ave. 

*'  Ths  Second  Coubse, 
"Two  potages,  blanger  mangere,  and  also  jely. 
For  a  standard*  vensonn  rost,  kyd,  fawne,  or  cony. 
Bastard,  stork,  crane,  pecok  in  hakille  ryally, 
Heiron-sew  or  betowre,  with  serve  with  bred,  yf  >at  drynk  be  by ; 
Fartriche,  wodook,  plovere,  egret,  rabettes  sowhere ; 
Gret  briddes,  larkes,  gentille  breme  de  mere, 
Doncettes,  payn  puff,  with  leche  Joly  Ambere, 
Fretonr  powche,  a  sotelte  folowynge  in  fere. 


136  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

The  course  for  to  fdllfylle, 
An  angelle  goodly  kan  appere. 
And  s jngynge  ■vrith  a  mery  chere, 
Unto  iij  sheperdes  uppon  an  hille. 
"The  nj^.  Couebe. 
"  Creme  of  almondes,  and  mameny,  J>e  iij  conrse  in  coost, 
Curlew,  brew,  snytes,  quales,  sparrows,  martonettes  rost, 
Ferche  in  gely,  crevise  deive  donz,  pety  pemeis  with  l»e  moost, 
Qaynoes  bake,  leche  dugard,  Fruture  sage,  y  speke  of  cost. 

And  Boteltes  for  the  soleyne  : 
That  lady  l>at  conseuyd  by  the  holy  gost, 
Hym  )>at  distroyed  l^e  fendes  boost. 

Presented  plesauntly  by  I'e  kynges  of  coleyn. 

Afitur  Ms,  delicatis  mo. 
Blaonderelle,  or  pepyns,  with  carawey  in  confite, 
Wafors  to  ete,  ypocras  to  drynk  with  delite. 
Now  this  fest  is  fynysched,  voyd  J>e  table  quyte. 
Go  we  to  )>e  fysche  fest  while  we  haue  respite. 
And  )>an  with  goddes  grace  )>e  fest  wille  be  do." 

No  mere  regalement  for  ascetics,  the  "  dinere  of 
fische,"  prescribed  by  John  Russell,  was  not  less 
rich  in  dainties  and  tasteful  ornaments  than  the 
flesh  banquet. 

"The  Fukst  Coubse. 
<*  Muselade  or  menows,  with  >e  samoun  bellows,  eles,  lampums  in 

fere. 
Feson  with  with  \>e  purpose,  as  good  potage,  as  y  suppose. 

As  falleth  for  tyme  of  >e  yere  : 
Baken  herynge,  sagre  perofi  strewynge, 

Grene  myllewelle,  deynteth  and  not  dere ; 
Pike,  lamprey,  or  soolis,  purpose  rested  on  coles, 
Gurnard,  lampurnes  bake,  a  leche,  and  a  fritoure ; 
A  semely  sotelte  folowynge  even  l>ere, 
A  galaunt  yonge  man,  a  wanton  wight. 


A  DTNEBB   OF  FISOHB.  137 

Pypynge  and  syngynge,  loTynge  and  lyght, 
Standynge  on  a  clowd,  eangainens  he  hight, 
The  begynnynge  of  >e  seson  >at  deped  is  ver. 

"The  Second  Goubsb. 
"  Dates  in  oonfyte,  jely  red  and  white, 
This  is  good  dewynge ; 
Congnr,  somon,  dorray,  in  syrippe  if  >ey  lay, 

With  o>er  diaohes  in  sewynge. 
Brett,  tnrbnt,  or  halybnt ;  oarpe,  base,  mylet  or  trowt, 

Cheyen,  breme,  renewynge; 
Sole,  eles,  lampnmes,  rost ;  a  leche,  a  frytare,  y  make  now  boat : 
The  second,  sotelte  sewynge. 
A  man  of  warre  semynge  he  was, 

A  ronghe,  a  red,  angry  syre. 
An  hasty  man  standynge  in  fyre. 
As  bote  as  somer  by  his  attyre : 
His  name  was  Theron,  and  cleped  CEstas. 

"The  Thikd  Coubse. 
"  Creme  of  almond  Jardyne,  and  onamerry,  goode  and  fyne : 

Potage  for  >e  iij^.  serayse. 
Fresche  sturgen,  breme  de  mere,  perche  in  jely,  oryent  and  clere; 

Whelkes,  mennse,  >as  we  devise ; 
Shrympis,  fresche  herynge  bryled,  pety  peneis  may  not  be  exiled, 

Leche  frytare,  a  tansey  gyse ; 
The  sotelte,  a  man  with  sikelle  in  his  hande 
In  a  rjnrere  of  watnr  stande. 

Wrapped  in  wedes  in  werysom  wyse, 
Hauynge  no  deynteith  to  daunoe : 

The  thrid  age  of  man  by  liklynes : 

Heryist  we  clepe  hym,  fnlle  of  werynes 

Zet  >er  folowythe  mo  >at  we  must  dres, 
Begardes  riche  l>at  ar  fnlle  of  plesaanoe. 

"The  nij  Ooubsb  or  Fbute. 
*<  Whot  appuls  and  peres  with  sngre  candy, 
Withe  gyngre  colambyne,  mynsed  manerly. 


138  A   BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

Wafars  with  ypooras. 
Now  >iB  feat  is  fynysohed,  for  to  make  glad  chore ; 
And  ]  anghe  so  be  )  at  l^e  use  and  manere 

Not  afore  tyme  be  sejn  has. 
Neverthelesse  aftar  my  simple  affeccion 
Y  must  conclade  with  >e  fourth  compleccion, 

*  Yemps'  )>e  cold  terme  of  )>e  yere, 
Wyntnr,  with  his  lokkys  grey,  febille  and  cold, 
Syttynge  nppon  |>e  stone,  both  hard  and  cold, 

Nigard  in  hert  and  heyy  of  chere/' 

The  reader  may  not  infer  from  the  elevation  of 
the  "hypocras  and  wafers  with  fruit,"  to  the 
dignity  of  "  a  course,"  that  ceremonious  banquets 
in  Russell's  time  had  more  than  three  regular 
courses.  It  has  been  already  remarked  that  the 
liqueur  and  wafers,  when  they  did  not  figure  in  the 
third  course,  were  dainties  "  served  out  of  course." 
Thus  given,  as  an  additional  courtesy,  rather  than 
as  a  part  of  the  feast  proper,  they  were  the  germ 
of  the  modem  dessert.  For  the  honour  accorded 
to  them  in  the  "  dinere  of  fische,"  they  are  indebted 
to  the  chefs  want  of  a  fit  occasion  for  the  display 
of  the  fourth  of  his  series  of  "grand  subtleties," 
which  he  describes  with  the  pride  of  an  inventor 
as  having, 

*'  byn  shewed  in  an  howse, 
hithe  do  the  gret  plesaanoe 
with  oJ>er  sightes  of  gret  Nowelte, 
i>an  han  be  shewed  in  Bialle  feestes  of  solempnyte,'* 

the  house,    of  course,   being  the  residence  of  his 
gracious  master. 


DINING   WITH   DUKE   HUMPHREY.  139 

Having  duly  considered  the  fare  which  the  good 
Duke  Humphrey  was  wont  to  set  before  his  guests, 
readers  do  not  need  to  be  assured  that  to  **  dine 
with  his  Grace"  was  not  to  "go  dinnerless,"  so 
long  as  he  kept  open  hall  and  a  royal  board.  A 
patron  of  letters  and  learned  men,  the  Duke  was 
the  founder  of  the  University  Library  at  Oxford, 
which  in  the  seventeenth  century  merged  in  the 
larger  collection  of  books  that  commemorates  Sir 
Thomas  Bodley's  care  for  learning.  In  the  interval 
between  the  "  good  duke's  "  death  and  the  begin- 
ing  of  Bodley's  fame,  Oxonian  humour  produced 
the  phrase  **  he  has  dined  with  Duke  Humphrey," 
to  denote  the  condition  of  the  studious  scholar  who, 
through  over-reading  the  dinner-hour  of  his  hall, 
missed  the  earlier  meal  of  meat  and  porridge,  and 
went  till  supper  without  any  fare  more  substantial 
than  the  purely  intellectual  refreshments  provided 
for  the  students  of  the  ducal  library.  The  phrase 
which  had  this  significance  at  the  University  was 
soon  applied  beyond  the  bounds  of  Alma  Mater 
to  anyone  who  had  dined  on  "  nothing  without  a 
welcome." 

Of  course,  when  considering  the  menus  of  Duke 
Humphrey's  table,  and  the  other  bills  of  fare  set 
forth  in  this  chapter,  readers  will  bear  in  mind 
what  he  has  learned  about  the  culinary  processes  of 
the    period.     ^Three-fourths   of   the   viands    were 


140  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE   TABLE. 

served  in  the  form  of  pottages,  mortrews,  hotch- 
pots, chewets, '  and  messes.  The  remainder  con- 
sisted chiefly  of  sweet  puddings,  standing  compotes, 
crustades,  and  fruit  mashes.  With  the  exception 
of  boars'  heads,  brawns,  and  joints  of  venison,  the 
largest  birds,  such  as  the  swan,  crane,  and  pea- 
cock, and  the  largest  fishes,  such  as  the  porpoise, 
sturgeon,  and  turbot,  which  creatures  were  served 
whole,  or  with  the  appearance  of  entirety,  the 
mediaeval  table  seldom  displayed  any  "  pieces "  of 
great  magnitude,  though  haunches  of  venison  were 
often  served  whole,  quite  as  often  as  they  were  dished 
in  gobbets  with  frumenty  or  thickened  broth.  The 
same  was  the  case  with  the  pestels  of  venison 
and  the  joints  of  beef  and  mutton,  which,  though 
figuring  in  the  bills  of  fare  as  stately  masses  of 
food,  were  served  in  stews,  hashes,  and  "  stir- 
abouts." 

Another  thing  to  be  observed  in  these  ancient 
menus  is  the  distinction  drawn  between  flesh-feasts 
and  fish-banquets.  The  latter,  consisting  of  fish, 
fruits,  and  vegetable  preparations,  were  devoid  of 
flesh;  the  brawn,  which  occasionally  appears  in 
their  menus,  being  a  preparation  of  fish  that  was 
offered  as  a  substitute  for  brawn  of  flesh.  From 
the  former,  fish  was  in  most  cases  altogether 
absent,  and,  in  the  cases  where  the  viands  were  not 
restricted  to  flesh,  fish  was  used  so  sparingly  as 


FLESH   AND   FISH.  141 

to  be  only  an  incidental  and  quite  subordinate  feature 
of  the  repast.  As  a  general  rule,  our  mediaeval 
ancestors  reserved  their  fish  for  the  many  days  on 
which  the  rule  of  the  church  forbade  them  to  eat 
any  richer  viands.  And  keeping  fish  for  fish-days, 
they  rarely  cared  to  touch  it  on  flesh-days.  For  the 
rest,  it  is  enough  to  remark  that  the  courses  of  the 
mediaeval  table  were  as  devoid  of  simplicity  as  the 
"  olios  and  gallimawfreys "  of  which  they  were 
chiefly  composed.  Chiefly  remarkable  for  a  com- 
plete absence  of  epicurean  design,  they  were  mere 
collections  of  good  things  brought  together  without 
regard  to  the  special  properties  of  each  dish,  and 
with  rude  insensibility  to  the  finer  requirements 
of  the  palate.  Viands  of  the  most  antagonistic 
qualities  were  thus  put  side  by  side,  and  the  feaster 
was  encouraged  to  pass  from  one  to  another,  alike 
indifferent  to  gastronomic  discords  and  confusion  of 
flavours,  so  long  as  he  procured  for  his  palate  a 
diversity  of  sensations.  On  the  other  hand,  it 
cannot  be  denied  that,  though  they  were  obscured 
by  barbaric  excess  of  quantity  and  by  ludicrous  mis- 
arrangements  of  material,  the  mediaeval  table 
afforded  some  indications  of  discernment  and  good 
taste.  In  learning  to  whet  his  palate  and  rouse  his 
stomach  with  brawn  and  mustard  the  epicure  of 
olden  time  made  a  long  step  towards  the  gastro- 
nomic period  when  critical  feeders  prepared  them- 


142  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

selves  for  pieces  de  resistance  by  playing  with  light 
soups,  delicate  fish,  and  dainty  entrees.  It  is  also 
creditable  to  his  sagacity  that,  whilst  satisfying 
his  sharper  cravings  with  heavier  and  more  sub- 
stantial fare,  he  placed  the  choicer  game  and  wild 
fowl  with  the  sweets  and  trtfles  of  the  third 
course. 

A  propos  of  the  mediaeval  fish-menus,  it  may  be 
here  remarked  that  fish  was  not  more  largely  con- 
sumed by  our  ancestors  of  Catholic  times,  than  by 
our  forefathers  of  the  century  immediately  following 
the  Reformation.  If  the  consumption  of  fish  was 
discouraged  by  the  change  of  religion,  which 
relaxed  and  modified  the  ancient  rules  of  fasting,  it 
was  on  the  other  hand  stimulated  by  civil  ordi- 
nances for  the  protection  of  fisheries,  and  for  the 
economical  use  of  several  kinds  of  food.  Whilst 
the  Friday  of  every  week  was  almost  universally 
kept  as  a  fish-day  in  Elizabethan  England,  either 
from  religious  sentiment,  or  out  of  regard  for 
ancient  usage,  there  was  a  general  compliance  with 
an  order  for  the  same  diet  on  Saturdays.  Not 
content  with  two  weekly  fish-days,  Queen  Elizabeth 
recommended  her  subjects  to  subsist  chiefly  on  the 
same  food  on  every  Wednesday.  At  the  same  time 
fish  was  the  diet  of  the  Lenten  season,  and  of  the 
special  fast-days  of  the  church.  Thomas  Cogan 
did  not  over-state  the   case  when  he  remarked,   in 


THE   HAVEN   OP   HEALTH.  143 

1596,  that  half  the  year  was  set  apart  for  the  con- 
sumption of  fish.* 

Nor  is  it  so  certain  as  some  social  illustrators 
suppose,  that  the  consumption  of  fish  is  much  less 
liberal  at  the  present  time  than  it  was  in  the  Eliza- 
bethan age.  Victorian  England  has,  indeed,  no 
days  to  which  fish-diet  has  been  assigned  by  civil 
proclamation ;  and  it  is  only  in  the  circles  of  High- 
Churchmen  and  Catholics  that  the  ancient  fasting- 
days  are  still  kept  with  the  eating  of  fish.  But  on 
the  other  hand,  fish  has  become  so  general  an 
article  of  daily  diet,  that  it  is  an  ingredient  of 
almost  every  meal  set  on  the  table  of  a  prosperous 
household.  It  figures  at  the  breakfast-table  in 
smoking  cutlets  and  dishes  of  fried  bloaters ;  it  is 

*  Now  concerning  fish,  which  is  no  smaU  part  of  onr  sastenanoe 
in  this  realme  of  England.  And  that  flesh  might  be  more  plentifull 
and  better  cheape,  two  daies  in  the  week,  that  is  Frydaj  and  Saturday, 
are  specially  appointed  to  flsh,  and  now  of  late  yeares  by  the  provi- 
dence of  our  prudent  Queen  Elizabeth,  the  Wednesday  is  also  in  a 
manner  restrained  to  the  same  order,  not  for  any  religion  or  holiness 
supposed  to  be  in  the  eating  of  fish  rather  than  flesh,  but  only  for 
the  civill  policie  as  I  have  said.  .  .  And  no  doubt,  if  all  daies  ap- 
pointed  for  that  purpose  were  duly  observed,  but  that  flesh  and  fish 
both  would  be  much  more  plentifull,  and  beare  lesse  price  than  they 
doe.  For,  accounting  the  Lent  Season,  and  all  fasting  daies  in  the 
yeare  together  with  Wednesday,  Friday,  and  Saturday,  you  shall  see 
that  the  one  halfe  of  the  ycare  is  ordeined  to  eat  fish  in.  But  here  I 
must  crave  a  pardon  of  divines,  that  they  will  give  me  leave  to  utter 
mine  opinion  touching  abstinence  from  meats." — Vide  Thomas 
CoGAu's  "  Haven  o?  Health,"  1696.    How  the  more  regular  obser- 


144*  A  BOOK  ABOUT   THE   TABLE. 

seldom  absent  at  luncheon ;  it  never  fails  to  appear 
with  the  soup  at  dinner.  No  supper  is  complete 
without  oysters  and  lobster  salad,  when  these 
choicest  shell-fish  are  "  in  season."  The  case  was 
diflbrent  in  olden  time.  So  long  as  people  were 
constrained  more  or  less  forcibly  to  eat  fish,  on 
certain  days  and  at  certain  seasons,  they  avoided 
it  at, other  times  as  an  inopportune  viand,  if  they 
did  not  actually  regard  it  with  the  repugnance 
which  the  dainty  are  apt  to  conceive  for  diet  which 
they  have  taken  on  compulsion.  Anyhpw,  the  daily 
and  incessant  consumption  of  fish  in  the  modern 
cuisine  is  probably  not  less  advantageous  to  the 
fisheries  than  the  periodic  and  intermittent  consump- 
tion of  the  same  food  in  former  times. 

Teance  of  fish-days  shonld  have  made  fish  cheaper  and  more  abundant, 
is  less  obvions  to  his  readers  of  to-day  than  to  the  worthy  Author  of 
"  The  Haven." 


145 


CHAPTER  IX- 

WARNERS  AND  SUBTLETIES,  ANCIENT  AND  MODERN. 

"  These  iiij  sotelties  devised  in  towse, 
wher  J>ey  byn  shewed  in  an  howse, 

hithe  doth  gret  plesaance, 
with  oJ>er  sightes  of  gret  Nowelte, 
)>an  han  be  shewed  in  Rialle  feestes  of  solempnyte, 
A  notable  cost  >e  ordynaunce.'* 

Vide  John  Russell's  "  Bokb  of  Nurtube." 
"These  curious  decorations  of  the  Old  English  Table,  were 
nothing  more  than  devices  in  Bugar  and  paste,  which,  in  general,  as  in 
the  case  before  us,  had  some  allusion  to  the  circumstances  of  the  en- 
tertainments, and  closed  the  service  of  the  dishes.  The  wamers  were 
ornaments  of  the  same  nature,  which  preceded  them.  It  seems  pro- 
bable that  the  splendid  dessert  frames  of  our  days,  ornamented  with 
the  quaint  and  heterogeneous  combinations  of  Chinese  architecture. 
Arcadian  swains,  fowl,  fish,  beasts  and  fanciful  representations  from 
Heathen  mythology,  are  only  the  remains  of,  or,  if  more  agreeable  to 
the  modem  ear,  refinements  upon  the  Old  English  Soteltees.*— Ficle 

"  AnTIQUITATES  CULINABIiE." 

SOMETHING  more  should  be  said  of  the  Warners 
and  Subtleties  which  were  the  most  conspicuous 
of  the  several  fanciful  adornments  of  the  Old 
English  table.  Like  the  barley-sugar  bird-cage 
which  Albert  Smith  saw  on  half-a-hundred  different 
supper-tables  during  three  successive  seasons  of 
"Victorian  London,  they  were  made  for  the  pleasure 
of  the  eye  rather  than  of  the  palate.  Guests  were 
expected  to  admire,    without  demolishing    them. 

VOL.  I.  L 


146  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

It  does  not  appear  that  they  were  ever  eaten ;  and 
they  often  contained  materials  by  no  means  tooth- 
some. In  eariier  times,  composed  chiefly  or  alto,- 
gether  of  sugar  and  pastry,  they  were  at  a  later 
date  the  contrivance  of  the  joiner  and  worker  in 
pasteboard,  rather  than  of  the  cook. 

Rising  several  feet  above  the  table  they  were 
bright  with  paint,  and  with  curiously- blazoned  flags 
that  gave  the  clue  to  their  meanings.  Sometimes 
they  were  mere  combinations  of  escutcheons  and 
other  heraldic  devices.  But  they  more  frequently 
comprised  figures  grouped  and  adorned  so  as, to 
illustrate  the  fables  of  chivalric  romance,  or  enforce 
honest  maxims,  or  render  an  apt  compliment  to  one 
or  more  of  the  chief  partakers  of  the  banquet. 
Martial  exploits  and  the  triumphs  of  the  chase  were 
thus  celebrated  in  confectionery.  At  other  times 
the  subtlety  would  exhibit  a  scene  of  sacred  story, 
or  call  attention  to  a  recent  incident  of  the  domestic 
life  of  an  honoured  person.  The  reader  has  already 
seen  John  Russell's  subtleties  of  the  four  seasons. 
At  a  bridal  feast,  one  at  least  of  the  subtleties 
always  pointed  with  greater  or  less  (usually  less) 
delicacy  to  what  dear  old  Samuel  Richardson  calls 
in  one  of  his  novels,  "  the  parturient  circumstances 
of  matrimony."  For  instance,  the  author  of  *'  For 
to  serve  a  lord,"  (written  near  the  close  of  the 
loth  century),  directs  that   one  of  the  chief  adorn- 


FESTAL   ADORNMENTS.  147 

ments  of  the  Bridal  Banquet*  should  be  a  cake, 
surmounted  by  the  figure  of  a  lady  in  urgent  need 
of  the  doctor.  The  mention  of  this  adornment  for 
the  bridal  table  reminds  one  of  the  device  exhibited 
by  the  Intendant  of  Gascony  at  a  banquet  to  cele- 

•  "A  Ban)AL  Banqtjet. 
"  For  to  make  a  feste  for  a  brjde» 
"The  first  cowrse: — ^brawne  with  the  borys  hed,  lying  in  a  felde, 
hegge  about  with  a  scriptur  on  this  wyse  — 
"  Welcombe  yon  bretheren  godely  in  this  hail, 
Joy  be  nnto  yon  all, 
That  ene  this  day  it  is  now  fall  I 
That  worthy  lorde  that  lay  in  an  oze  stalle 
Meynteyne  yonr  hnsbande  and  yon  with  your  gyatys  alle. 
Ifnrmente  with  yeneson,  swanne,  pigge, 
Ifesannte,  with  a  grete  cnstarde,  with  a  sotelte. 
A  lambe  stondyng  in  scriptour,  saying  on  this  wyse : 
'  I  mekely  nnto  yon,  sovrayne,  am  sente, 
to  dwell  with  yon,  and  ever  be  present/ 
**  T/w  second  cotwM.-^-Veneson  in  broth,  viande  Byalle,  veneson 
rested,  crane,  cony,  a  bake  mete,  leche  damaske,  with  a  sotelte :  An 
anteloppe  sayng  on  a  sele  that  seith  with  scriptonr, 

'  beith  all  glad  and  merry  at  this  messe, 
and  prayeth  for  the  king  and  all  his.' 
"  The  thvrde  course. — Creme  of  almondys,   losynge  in   syruppe, 
betoure,  partridge,  plover,  snyte,  ponder  veal,  leche  veal  well  is  iu 
sotelte,  roches  in  sotelte,   plaice  in  sotetlte,   a  bake  mete  with  a 
sotelte ;  an  angel  with  a  scHptonr,  *  thanke  all,  god,  of  this  feste/ 
"  The  iiij  cov/rse, — Payne  puff,  chese,  freynes,  brede  bote,  with  a 
I  cake,  and  a  wif  lying  in  childe-bed,  with  a  scriptonr  saing  in  this 

H  wise,  •  I  am  comyng  toward  yonr  bryde.    If  ye  dinte  onys  loke  to  me 

ward,  I  wene  ye  nedys  muste/ 

"Another  cowrse  or  servise, — ^Brawne  with  mustard,  vmblys  of  a 
dere  or  of  a  sepe ;  swanne,  capoun,  lambe, 


148  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

brate  the  birth  of  the  Duke  of  Burgundy.  "  The 
Intendant/'  says  Horace  Walpole,  "  treated  the 
noblesse  with  a  dinner  and  a  dessert,  the  latter  of 
which  concluded  with  a  representation,  by  wax 
figures  moved  by  clockwork,  of  the  whole  labour 
of  the  Dauphiness,  and  the  happy  birth  of  an  heir 
to  the  monarchy." 

The  Warners  and  subtleties  of  the  Tudor  cooks 
surpassed  the  subtle  contrivances  of  earlier  artistes 
in  magnitude  and  elaborateness.  At  the  several 
banquets  attending  the  Inthronization  of  Arch- 
bishop Nevill,  every  table  had  one  of  these 
cumbrous  ornaments,  that  were  made  of  half-a- 
dozen  uneatable  materials,  as  well  as  of  sugar  and 
pastry.  At  the  superior  tables  the  quaint  struc- 
tures were  changed  with  the  courses.  One  of  the 
Warners,  representing  several  scenes,  was  brought 
to  the  table  on  three  separate  boards,  each  of  which 
sustained  an  enormous  and  quaintly  fabricated  toy. 
The  king  "  sytting  in  the  parliamment  with  hys 
lordes  about  hym  in  their  robes,  and  the  Chancellor 

Here  again,  the  cook  gives  a  fowrth  coarse,  consisting  of  little  bat 
a  cake,  cheese,  and  ihs  subtlety  which  raised  the  afler-cates  to  the 
dignity  of  a  coarse.  The  introdaction  of  the  cheese  is  notable,  it 
being  one  of  the  earliest  mentions  of  a  fashion  still  followed.  As 
for  the  "  other  coarse,"  (a  mere  suggestion  for  an  "  oat  of  coarse,"  pre- 
ade  or  epilogae),  it  was  no  regular  coarse.  Though  drawn  by  an 
innovator,  this  menu  was  for  a  banquet  of  three  courses,  with  addi- 
tions. 


A  OOxVIPLIMBNT  FOR  THE   LAWYELBS.  149 

of  Oxford,  with  other  doctors  about  hym,"  were 
represented  in  one  of  the  compartments  of  the  grand 
device,  which  comprised  "  eight  towers,  embattled 
and  made  with  flowers,  standyng  on  every  towre  a 
bedil  in  his  habite,  with  his  staffe."  At  the  table 
provided  for  the  Master  of  the  Rolls,  the  Arch- 
deacons, and  Doctors,  the  grand  subtlety  was  "  a 
church  Abbaye  lyke,  with  many  altares,  and  a  chayre 
set  at  the  hygh  Altare,  and  a  doctor  syttynge  therein, 
with  his  backe  turned  to  the  altare,  lyke  a  judge  of 
the  Arches,  with  the  certaine  doctors,  and  proctors 
pleadyng  causes  of  the  lawes  of  the  Church  before 
the  sayde  judge." 

The  taste  for  cumbrous  contrivances  of  this  kind 
prevailed  throughout  the  Tudor  period;  and,  far 
from  languishing  under  the  Stuarts,  it  was  produc- 
tive of  greater  absurdities  in  the  seve  nteenth  than  in 
any  earlier  time  of  our  culinary  annals.  The  civil 
troubles  of  that  century  were  unfavourable  to  cooks 
and  their  art.  Master  Robert  May,  chef  to  Lord 
Montague,  Lord  Lumley,  Sir  Kenelm  Digby,  as 
well  as  to  other  lavish  amphitryons  of  his  time, 
speaks  pathetically  of  the  injury  done  to  gastronomic 
science  by  the  "  unhappy  and  culinary  disturbances 
of  those  times.'*     Indeed,  the  venerable  cook*  would 

*  "  Though  I  may  bo  envied,"  he  observes,  grandly,  **  by  some  that 
only  value  the  private  interests  above  posterity  and  the  publick  good 
yet  God  and  my  own  conscience  would  not  permit  me  to  bury  these, 


150  A   BOOK  ABOUT  THE   TABLE. 

have  us  believe  that  all  higher  cookery  would  have 
perished  from  the  land  during  the  Commonwealth, 
had  it  not  been  for  "  the  McBcencHs  and  patrons  of 
the  generous  art,"  who  sheltered  him  in  their 
kitchens  during  a  gloomy  epoch,  and  afforded  him 
opportunities  for  accomplishing  those  "  triumphs 
and  trophies  of  cookery"  which  still  render  him 
famous.  Able  in  every  department  of  his  art, 
Robert  May  was  especially  great  in  imagining 
"  novelties,"  and  enlarging  the  sphere  of  "  subtle 
diversions." 

This  artiste  and  his  patrons  cannot  be  fully 
appreciated  by  the  student  who  has  never  perused 
"  The  Accomplished  Cook,"  which,  whilst  exhibit- 
ing the  resources  of  "  the  generous  art,"  abounds 
with  illustrations  of  Caroline  society. 

In  the  fulness  of  his  powers,  Robert  May  executed 
the  choicest  of  his  triumphs,  as  a  fit  prelude  to  a 
Court  supper  on  Twelfth-night.  Having  modelled  a 
ship  of  war  in  pasteboard,  he  filled  it  with  toy  guns 
coated  with  sugar  and  pastry,  tricked  it  gaily  with 
flags  and  streamers,  and  sent  it  into  action  by  means 
set  forth  in  the  following  passage  :— 

my  experienoesi  with  my  silver  hairs  in  the  grave." — Fw?e  "  The 
Accomplished  Cook,  or  The  Ast  and  Mystery  oi?  Cookery." 
Wherein  the  whole  Art  is  revealed.  Approved  by  fifty  years  ex- 
perience and  industry  of  Eobert  May,  in  his  attendance  on  several 
persons  of  honour,  1660. 


SCREAMING  GENTLEWOMEN.  151 

"Place  your  ship,"  he  Bays,  "firm  in  the  great  charger;  then 
make  a  salt  jronnd  about  it,  and  stick  therein  egg-shells  full  of  sweet 
water,  you  may  by  a  great  pin  take  out  all  the  meat  of  the  egg  by 
blowing,  and  then  fill  it  up  with  rose-water ;  then  on  another  charger 
have  the  proportion  of  a  stage  made  of  coarse  paste,  with  a  broad 
arrow  on  the  side  of  him,  and  his  body  filled  with  claret  wine ;  in 
another  charger  at  the  end  of  the  stag  have  the  proportion  of  a 
castle  with  battlements,  portcullises,  gates  and  drawbridges  made 
of  paste-board,  the  guns  and  kickses,  and  covered  with  paste  as  the 
former ;  place  it  at  a  distance  from  the  ship  to  fire  at  each  other. 
The  stag  being  placed  between  them  with  egg-shells  of  sweet  water 
(as  before)  placed  in  the  salt.  At  each  side  of  the  charger  wherein 
is  the  stag,  place  a  pye  made  of  coarse  paste,  in  one  of  which  let 
there  be  some  live  frogs,  in  each  other  some  live  birds  ;  make  these 
pyes  of  coarse  paste  filled  with  bran,  and  yellowed  over  with  safiron 
or  the  yolks  of  eggs,  guild  them  over  in  spots,  as  also  the  stag,  the 
ship  and  the  castle ;  bake  them  and  place  them  with  guilt  bay-leaves 
on  turrets  and  tunnels  of  the  castles  and  pyes ;  being  baked,  make 
a  hole  in  the  bottom  of  your  pyes,  take  out  the  bran,  put  in  your 
frogs,  and  birds,  and  close  up  the  holes  with  the  same  coarse  paste, 
then  cut  the  lids  neatly  up;  to  be  taken  off  the  tunnels:  being  all 
placed  in  order  upon  the  table,  before  you  fire  the  trains  of  powder, 
order  it  so  that  some  of  the  ladies  may  be  persuaded  to  pluck  an 
arrow  out  of  the  stag,  then  will  the  claret  wine  follow,  as  blood 
runneth  out  of  a  wound.  This  being  done  with  admiration  to  the 
beholders,  after  some  short  pause,  fire  the  train  of  the  castle,  that 
the  pieces  all  of  one  side  may  go  off,  then  fire  the  trains  of  one 
side  of  the  ship  as  in  battel,  next  turn  the  chargers,  and  by  degrees 
fire  the  trains  of  each  other  side  as  before.  This  done,  to  sweeten 
the  stink  of  the  powder,  let  the  ladies  take  the  egg-shells  full  of 
sweet  waters,  and  throw  them  at  each  other.  All  dangers  being 
seemingly  over,  by  this  time  you  may  suppose  they  will  desire  to 
see  what  is  in  the  pyes ;  when  lifting  first  the  lid  off  one  pye,  out 
skip  some  frogs,  which  make  the  ladies  to  skip  and  shreek ;  next 
after  the  other  pye,  when  come  out  the  birds,  who  by  a  natural 
instinct  fiying  into  the  lights,  will  put  out  the  candles,  so  that  what 


152  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

with  the  fljing  birds  and  the  skipping  frogs,  the  one  above,  the 
other  beneath,  will  cause  much  delight  and  pleasure  to  the 
whole  company;  at  length  the  candles  are  lighted,  a  banquet 
brought  in,  the  musick  sounds,  and  everyone  with  much  delight 
and  content  rehearses  their  actions  in  the  former  passages.  These 
were  formerly  the  delights  of  the  nobility,  before  good  house- 
keeping had  left  England,  and  the  sword  really  acted  that  which 
was  only  counterfeited  in  such  honest  and  laudable  exercises  as  these." 

In  filling  egg-shells  with  scented  water,  Robert 
May  followed  the  example  of  the  Italian  artistes, 
who  at  carnivals  and  other  festal  times  were  wont 
to  prepare  scores  upon  scores  of  the  s«'lme  fragile 
missiles  for  the  hands  of  sportive  ladies.  When 
Dudley  North,  the  Lord  Keeper's  brother,  visited 
Italy,*  in  the  time  of  Charles  the  Martyr,  he  was 
greatly  diverted  by  the  spectacle  of  gentlewomen 
pelting  one  another,  as  well  as  their  cavaliers,  in 
the  public  ways,  with  egg-shells  containing  sweet 
water.  To  the  same  country,  Robert  May  was  also 
indebted  for  the  "  surprise  pies,"  which  caused  the 
fair  admirers  of  his  culinary  extravaganza  to  "  skip 
and  shreek." 

*  "  Now  is  the  time,"  wrote  the  merchant  of  noble  birth,  "  between 
Christmas  and  Lent,  which  is  called  Carnival.  The  people  use  all 
the  mirth  they  can  devise ;  such  as  passing  in  masquerade  clothes, 
one  after  one,  and  another  after  another  manner;  tossing  eggshells 
with  sweet  water,  where  they  see  women  they  like ;  and  thus  tossing 
eggs  at  first,  the  women  will  reach  them  'till  the  basket  be  divided 
betwixt  them,  and  then  to  pelting  each  other  they  go ;  and  so  are  all 
Sundays  and  holidays  spenti — Vide  "  Life  of  the  Hon.  Sik  Dudley 

KoETH." 


GEORGIAN   NOVELTIES.  153 

In  the  earlier  years  of  the  eighteenth  century, 
ornaments,  bearing  any  close  resemblance  to  the 
manners  and  subtleties  of  the  feudal  period,  were 
seldom  placed  on  fashionable  tables.  They  might 
still  be  seen  in  civic  halls  on  gaudy  days ;  but  high 
life  had  replaced  them  with  more  durable  and  less 
cumbrous  devices  of  china   and   porcelain.     Then 

m 

came  the  day  of  harlequins,  gondoliers,  and  shep- 
herdesses in  ceramic  ware.  The  writings  of  Addison 
and  Walpole*  contain  allusions  to  several  successive 
fashions  for  the  embellishment  of  the  festal  board. 
Shepherdesses,  wandering  in  groves  of  paper  and 
silk  thread,  were  superseded  by  pastoral  scenes  of  a 
more  realistic  character.  For  awhile  there  was  a 
rage  for  culinary  representations  of  cattle  browsing 

on  fat  pasture,  farm-yards,  and  rustic  cottages.     A 

• 

*  "  The  last  branch  of  our  fashion,  into  which  the  close  observation 
of  nature  has  been  produced,  is  our  desserts.  Jellies,  biscuits,  sugar- 
plums, and  creams  have  lt>ng  since  given  way  to  harlequins, gondoliers, 
Turks,  Chinese,  and  shepherdesses  of  Saxon  china.  But  these,  un- 
connected, and  only  seeming  to  wander  among  groves  of  curled  paper 
and  silk  flowers,  were  soon  discovered  to  be  too  insipid  and  unmean- 
ing. By  degrees,  meadows  of  cattle,  of  the  same  brittle  material, 
spread  themselves  over  the  table;  cottages  rose  in  barley-sugar; 
Neptunes  in  cars  of  cockle-shells  triumphed  over  oceans  of  looking- 
glass  or  seas  of  silver  tissue.  Women  of  the  first  quality  came  home 
from  Chevenix's,  laden  with  dolls  and  babies,  not  for  their  children,  but 
for  their  housekeeper.  At  last,  even  these  puerile  puppetshows  are 
sinking  into  disuse,  and  more  manly  ways  of  concluding  repasts  are 
established.  Gigantic  figures  succeed  to  pigmies." — Vide  Loed 
O&f  gad's  "Woeks." 


154  A   BOOK   ABOUT  THE   TABLE. 

• 

few  seasons  later,  fashionable  humour,  taking  a 
mythological  turn,  commissioned  Neptunes  of  painted 
sugar  to  drive  triumphal  cars  over  seas  of  looking- 
glass.  Dolls  that  could  wink  their  eyes  and  cry 
"  mamma,'*  and  wax  babies  of  alarmingly  natural 
proportions  and  aspect,  had  their  brief  hour  of 
favour  with  Amphitryons  and  hostesses,  but  were 
soon  discarded  on  a  fresh  outbreak  of  the  mytho- 
logical mania,  for  monstrous  dishes  of  gods  and 
goddesses,  that  required  the  services  of  a  detach- 
ment of  engineers  for  their  safe  transference  from 
the  pantry  to  the  banqueting-room.  "Imaginez- 
vouz  que  milord  n'a  pas  voulu  faire  6ter  le 
plafond,"  exclaimed  the  indignant  chef  who  had 
produced  one  of  these  preposterous  structures,  only 
to  learn  that  his  master.  Lord  Albemarle,  would  not 
allow  the  ceiling  of  his  dining-room  to  be  destroyed, 
in  order  that  the  group  of  deities  might  be  suitably 
placed  on  a  supper-table. 

Under  the  Regency,  and  after  the  Regent's  ex- 
ample, fashionable  folk  called  the  gardener  to  the 
aid  of  the  cook,  and  brightened  their  tables  with  the 
choicest  flowers  of  the  conservatory,  an  excellent 
fashion,  that  in  these  days  of  dinners  a  la  Busse 
covers  the  board  with  objects  which  delight  the  eye, 
when  the  epicures'  grosser  appetites  have  been  satis- 
fied. At  Carlton  House,  also,  the  greatest  gentle- 
man of  Europe  astonished  his  friends  by  seating 


FEUIT   AND   FLOWERS.  155 

them  at  a  table  so  constructed  that,  whilst  regaling 
themselves  with  the  most  delicate  works  of  culinary 
art,  they  looked  on  a  purling  rivulet,  populous  with 
gold  fish,  and  banked  with  moss  aud  flowers.  But 
though  applaude^l  for  a  season,  this  singular  aqua- 
rium was  soon  discarded,  and  should  be  remembered 
merely  as  a  costly  freak  of  the  royal  epicure,  who 
chiefly  distinguished  himself  amongst  table  decora- 
tors by  using  fruit  and  flowers  more  liberally  and 
skilfully  than  any  previous  Amphitryon  of  modern 
England.  , 

Even  in  this  age  of  revivalism,  when  ceramic 
taste  is  restoring  the  long-neglected  blue  of  the 
willow  pattern  pottery,  it  is  not  probable  that  the 
Warners  and  Subtleties  of  olden  time  will  reappear 
at  festal  tables.  Approving  the  changes  which 
have  successively  swept  away  the  stupendous  struc- 
tures of  paste-board  and  pastry,  the  antique  groups 
and  cumbrous  dishes  of  the  old  entertainers, 
universal  sentiment  has  declared  in  favour  of  leaves 
and  flowers  as  the  proper  garniture  for  the  epi- 
curean  board.  The  same  good  taste  also  requires 
that  in  the  arrangement  of  these  natural  ornaments 
care  should  be  taken  to  place  them  above  or  below 
the  line  of  vision.  However  beautiful  it  may  be 
in  its  proper  place,  the  decoration  which  breaks  the 
festal  view,  and  puts  one's  opposite  neighbours  out 
of  sight,  is  a  hindrance  to  vis-a-vis  conversation. 


156  A    BOOK   ABOUT  THE   TABLE. 

and  an  irritating  interference  with  the  rights   of 
guests. 

No  more  effective  obstacle  to  enjoyment  can  be 
produced  by  human  ingenuity  than  one  of  those 
long  baskets,  closely  packed  with  Ijigh,  leafy  plants, 
which  are  sometimes  set  on  dinner-tables  for  pic- 
torial effect.  Under  the  cold  shade  of  such  an 
impenetrable  thicket,  the  brightest  wit  ceases  to 
shine,  and  the  dazzling  belle  loses  her  radiance.  A 
table-talker  might  as  well  pelt  a  haystack  with 
epigrams  as  throw  jeux  (Vesprit  against  such  a  wall 
of  garden-stuff.  Unable  to  see  the  faces  on  the 
other  side  of  the  leafy  covert,  he  misses  the  smiles 
which  should  encourage  and  reward  his  humour; 
and  feeling  himself  cut  off  from  human  sympathy, 
he  even  lacks  spirit  to  cheer  the  clouded  sharer  of 
his  depressing  position.  Bearing  these  facts  in 
mind,  the  artistic  decorator  of  a  festal  board  prefers 
cut  to  growing  flowers,  and  whilst  placing  the 
bright  blossoms  only  a  few  inches  above  the  level  of 
the  table,  disposes  his  ferns  so  that  guests  on  oppo- 
site sides  of  the  plane  look  at  one  another  beneath 
the  drooping  fronds. 

At  present,  the  Christmas  Trees,  planted  on 
supper-tables  for  the  delight  of  children,  are  the 
only  remains  of  the  intrusive  decorations  which 
were  so  conspicuous  at  the  feasts  of  the  Old  English. 
But  in  the  smaller  confections  and  toy-sweetmeats 


KISSES   AND    CRACKERS.  157 

of  our  tables — such  as  crackers,  bonbons,  chocolate- 
drops,  and  "  kisses  '* — may  still  be  seen  the  vestiges 
of  a  fashion  that  centuries  since  scattered  curious 
trifles  of  the  same  kind  over  the  groaning  board. 
In  the  fabrication  of  lozenges  an(d  minute  sugar- 
toys,  the  confectioners  of  olden  time  expended  much 
care,  and  often  exhibited  more  of  ingenuity  than 
delicacy.  In  spite  of  all  that  has  been  urged  against 
the  levity  and  impudence  of  "  the  girl  of  the 
period,"  it  is  certain  that  she  would  not  fail  to  ex- 
hibit signs  of  abhorrence  and  outraged  dignity  if  she 
were  ofi*ered  at  a  ball-supper  such  whimsical  sweet- 
meats as  gallant  knights  in  the  palmiest  days  of 
chivalry  used  to  press  upon  their  dames  and  damoi- 
selles.  As  for  the  mottoes  of  our  bon-bons,  it  is 
needless  to  observe  that  they  are  miniature  re- 
productions of  the  "  resons ''  and  sentimental 
"  florishes  "  of  the  medi8Bval  subtleties. 


158 


CHAPTER  X. 

CARVING  AND  CARVERS. 

"  Take  your  knyfe  in  your  hande,  and  cut  brawne  in  ye  dysshe  as 
it  lyeth,  and  laye  it  on  your  souerayne's  trencbour  and  se  tbere  be 
mustarde." — "The  Bokb  op  Keruynge*'  (Wtnkyn  db  Worde.) 

**  Now,  fadir,  feire  falle  ye,  and  crist  yew  baue  in  cure. 
For  of  )>e  nurture  of  keruynge  y  suppose  )>at  y  be  sure. 

John  Russell's  **Boke  op  Nurture." 

•*  Curteis  be  was,,  lowly,  and  servi sable, 
And  carf  before  bis  fader  at  the  table. 

Chaucer's  Tales:  '*Th£  Tonge  Squier. 


>• 


SO  long  as  English  fare  consisted  chiefly  of  stews 
and  minced  meats,  with  other  messes  that  would 
at  the  present  time  be  helped  without  a  knife,  there 
was  small  need  of  a  carver  at  an  ordinary  banquet. 
But  though  the  feudal  table  afibrded  him  compara- 
tively few  occasions  for  the  exhibitions  of  his  skill, 
the  carver  found  employment  at  ceremonious  feasts, 
and  his  office  was  honoured  throughout  the  Roman 
or  spoon-period  of  our  ancient  cookery.  It  was  he 
who  sliced  the  brawn  and  venison  and  other  large 
pieces  of  the  medisBval  feast.  When  served  whole, 
the  swan  and  peacock  were  cut  artistically  by  his 
gleaming  knife.  And  when  they  were  put  on  the 
board  with  only  the  appearance  of  entirety,  he 
divided  their  nicely  arranged  parts   with  all  the 

Cn.  •"  '-•  '■•' ' 


GENTLE   BEfiVING  HEN.  159 

formal  "  flourishes  **  of  a  carver  actually  dissecting 
a  royal  bird.  The  wild  fowl  and  smaller  ground 
game,  which  were  usually  put  whole  on  the  table, 
afforded  him  other  occasions  for  showing  artistic 
adroitness  and  a  precise  knowledge  of  the  rules  and 
terms  of  his  craft. 

In  days  when  the  offices  of  footmen  and  other 
male  menials  were  filled  by  gentle  serving-men,  he 
was  always  a  gentleman  of  honest  lineage,  and  not 
seldom  a  person  of  noble  degree,  though  of  a  rank 
inferior  to  that  of  his  employer.  The  four  carvers 
and  cup-bearers  of  Edward  the  Fourth's  special 
table  were  bannerets  or  bachelor-knights  ;*  and  at 
the  banquets  attending  Archbishop  Nevill's  in- 
thronization,  the  chief  carver  was  Lord  Willoughby, 
some  of  whose  fellow-servantst  at  the  same  fes- 

*  "  In  the  *  Liber  Niger  Domns  Regis  Angliaa/  (t.e.,  Edward  the 
Fonrthj,  containing  orders  for  the  Boyal  Honsehold,  anno  1478,  we 
read,  '  Bannerets  or  Bachelor  Knights  to  be  carvers  or  cup-bearers, 
(four).' " — Vide  Samuel  Peoge's  "  Cukialia  Miscellanea." 

t  The  staff  of  chief-servants  at  the  festival  comprised  the  following 
nobles,  knights  and  gentlemen  : — "  First,  the  Earle  of  Warwicke, 
as  Stewarde;  the  Earle  of  Northumberlande,  as  Treasurer;  the 
Lorde  Hastinges,  as  Comptroller ;  the  Lorde  WjUoughbj,  Carver ; 
the  Lorde  of  Bnckyngham,  Cup-bearer ;  Sir  Bicharde  Strangwiche, 
Sewer ;  Sir  Walter  Worley,  Marshall  and  viii  other  knyghtes  of  the 
Hall ;  also  viu  Sqnyers,  besides  other  two  Sewers ;  Sir  John  Maly- 
very,  Panter;  the  Sergeant  of  the  Kinge's  Ewery,  to  be  Ewerer; 
Greystoke  and  Nevell,  kepers  of  the  Cubbords ;  Sir  John  Breakneck, 
Surveyor  of  the  Hall." — Vide  "  Inthronization  op  Akchbishop 
JNevill." 


160  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

tival  were   superior  to  him   in   wealth   and   social 
quality. 

Whilst  his  manner  conformed  to  the  ceremonious- 
ness,  the  carver's  terms  accorded  with  the  quaint 
pedantry  of  the  period  whose  chefs  were  schoolmen, 
and  whose  scholars  delighted  in  fantastic  phraseo- 
logy. In  the  "Boke  of  Nurture,"  John  Russell 
gives  us  a  chapter  on  "kervyng  of  flesh,"  and 
another  on  the  "  kervyng  of  fische,"  from  which  it 
appears  that  Duke  Humphrey's  carver  had  a  distinct 
set  of  observances  for  almost  every  "creature" 
that  came  under  his  knife.  He  might  not  touch 
venison  with  his  hand ;  but  having  sliced  the 
"piece"  deftly,  he  put  the  juiciest  slice  on  his 
lord's  plate,  by  means  of  his  broad-bladed  carving- 
knife,  and  without  the  assistance  of  a  fork.  Birds 
he  might  raise  by  their  legs  with  his  left  hand  before 
dismembering  them ;  but  his  skill  was  seen  in  the 
quickness  and  certainty  with  which  he  poised  "  each 
portion  "  on  his  knife,  and  conveyed  it  to  the  plate 
without  touching  it  with  his  fingers.  At  moments 
of  difficulty  he  had  recourse  to  the  spoon ;  but  in 
days  prior  to  the  introduction  of  table-forks,  the 
perfect  carver  used  the  spoon  as  little  as  possible, 
and  would  have  died  of  shame,  had  he  been  seen  to 
put  his  fingers  upon  a  viand  in  a  way  prohibited  by 
the  laws  of  his  art.  It  was  expressly  conceded  by 
those  laws  that  he  might  touch  beef  and  mutton 


HANDLING  AND   FINGEETNG.  161 

with  his  left  hand ;  but  he  always  exercised  this 
privilege  discreetly  and  with  sensitive  care  for  his 
lord's  feelings  and  his  own  honour.  With  the 
knife,  also,  he  was  wondrously  expert  in  removing 
sinew  and  unsightly  bits  from  each  sHce.  To  the 
youth  aspiring  to  distinguish  himself  in  courtly 
service,  John  Russell  says  : — 

"  Withe  joure  lifb  haiide  touche  beeflf,  chyne,  motonn,  as  is  a-fore 
said, 
&  pare  hit  clene  or  J>at  ye  kerve,  or  hit  to  your  lord  be  layd ; 
and  as  it  is  showed  afore,  beware  of  upbrayde; 
alle  famosite,  salt,  seaow,  raw,  aside  be  hit  convuyde." 

It  was  also  customary  for  the  carver,  when  he  had 
cut  and  prepared  a  slice  of  meat,  to  dissect  it  into 
four  strips,  holding  together  at  the  end,  so  as  to 
resemble  in  some  degree  an  obsolete  instrtiment  of 
punishment — the  Scotch  tawse.  Provided  with  such 
a  slice,  the  courtly  feaster  lifted  it  with  his  fingers, 
using  the  undivided  end  as  a  handle,  whilst  he  ate 
the  four  long  pieces.  Having  eaten  the  strips,  he 
of  course  laid  aside  the  "  handle,"  which  he  had 
touched,  as  unfit  for  the  palate  of  a  nice  feeder. 
Addressing  his  apt  pupil  on  this  matter,  John 
Russell  says : — 

**  But  fur>ermore  enforme  yow  y  must  in  metis  kervynge, 
Mynse  ye  must  iiij  lees,  to  oon  morselle  hangynge, 
)>at  youre  mastir  may  take  with  ij  fyngurs  in  his  sawce  dippynge, 
and  so  no  napkyn,  brest,  ne  boreclothe,  in  anywise  embrowynge.'' 

VOL.  I.  M 


162  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

From  this  order,  and  many  similar  directions  for 
the  performance  of  work  which  would  not  now-a- 
days  devolve  on  the  mere  distributor  of  a  dish,  it  is 
obvious  that  the  carver  of  "  The  Boke  of  Nurture" 
was  a  thoughtful  "  helper"  of  meat,  as  well  as  an 
operator  on  pieces  de  resistance.  A  valet  bent  on 
ministering  to  the  comfort  and  caprices  of  his  special 
master,  rather  than  a  performer  acting  theatrically 
to  the  admiration  of  a  score  spectators,  he  is  a 
vigilant,  quick-handed,  ready  "  waiter,"  not  a  stately 
illustrator  of  the  laws  of  carving.  Faultless  as  an 
attendant  on  a  solitary  gourmet,  he  would  perhaps 
have  failed  in  dramatic  effectiveness,  as  chief  carver 
of  plumed  peacocks  at  a  ceremonious  regalement  in 
a  crowded  hall. 

"  The  Boke  of  Kervynge"  (Wynkyn  de  Worde), 
published  at  the  close  of  Henry  the  Seventh's  reign, 
is  perhaps  more  generally  known  than  "  The  Boke 
of  Nurture,"  which  it  resembles  so  closely  in  phrase- 
ology that  it  is  little  else  than  a  prose  version  of 
such  parts  of  Russell's  poetical  performance  as 
relate  to  culinary  matters  and  the  service  of  the 
table.  Whether  the  anonymous  fabricator  of  this 
tract  was  only  the  shameless  plagiarist  of  John 
Russell's  superior  work,  or  whether  both  authors 
made  free  use  of  some  earlier  scribe,*  are  questions 
that  antiquaries  hesitate  to  answer,  and  few  readers 

*  The  following  lines  in  the  epilogue  to  the  "  Boke  of  Nurture," 


TECHNICAL  TEEMS.  163 

of  this  page  will  care  to  consider.  But,  whatever 
may  have  been  the  source  of  his  information, 
Wynkyn  de  Worde's  hack-writer  may  be  thanked 
for  giving  us  a  complete  list  of  terms  used  by  pro- 
fessional carvers. 

Teemes  of  a  Kebveb. 

Breke  that  dere ;  lesche  that  brawne ;  rere  that 
goose ;  lyft  that  swanne  ;  sauce  that  capon  ;  spoyle 
that  henne ;  frusshe  that  chekyn  ;  unbrace  that  mal- 
larde;  unlace  that  cony;  dysmembre  that  heron; 
displaye  that  crane ;  dysfygure  that  pecocke ;  un- 
joynt  that  bytture  ;  untache  that  curlew;  alaye  that 
f esande ;  wynge  that  partryche ;  wynge  that  quayle  ; 
mynce  that  plover ;  thye  that  pegyon  ;  border  that 

if  taken  literally,  prove  tbac  Russell  was  not  the  original  author,  but 
only  the  transcriber  of  the  poem  ;— 

"  And  if  BO  >at  any  be  founde,  as  >rouz  myn  necligence, 
Cast  \>e  cawse  on  my  copy,  rude  and  bare  of  eloquence, 
Whiche  to  drawe  out  (I)  haue  do  my  besy  diligence, 
Bedily  to  reforme  hit  by  reson  and  bettur  sentence. 
As  for  ryme  or  reson,  >e  forewryter  was  not  to  blame. 
For  as  he  founde  hit  aforne  hym,  so  wrote  he  l>e  same. 
And  >aughe  he  or  y  in  oure  matere  digres  or  degrade. 
Blame  neither  of  us.    For  we  neuyre  hit  made." 
But   this    disclaimer  of  originality  may  be  only  an  exercise  of 
literary  artifice,  common  in  authors  of  every  age»  and  frequent  in 
modem  novelists,  who  often  proclaim  themselves  only  the  "  editors'* 
of  their  own  tales.    It  is  probable  that  Wynkyn  de  Worde's  tract 
was  only  the  reproduction  in  type  of  an  old  prose  MS.,  which  John 
Bussell  amended  and  threw  into  verse. 

M  2 


164  A   BOOK   ABOUT   THE   TABLE. 

pasty;  thye  that  Tvodcocke;  thye  all  manDer  of 
small  byrdes ;  tyinbre  that  fyre ;  tyere  that  egge ; 
chyne  that  samon  ;  strynge  that  lampraye ;  splatte 
that  pyke ;  sauce  that  tenche ;  splaye  that  breme ; 
syde  that  haddocke ;  tuske  that  barbell ;  culpon  that 
troute ;  fynne  that  cheven ;  trausene  that  ele ; 
traunche  that  sturgeon ;  undertraunche  that  purpos  ; 
tayme  that  crabbe;  barbe  that  lopster.  Here 
hendeth  the  goodly  termes. 

This  list  accords  with  what  has  been  already  said 
as  to  the  creatures  ordinarily  submitted  to  the 
carver,  in  times  when  common  meats  were  not  com- 
monly served  in  large  pieces.  Making  no  mention 
of  what  would  now-a-days  be  called  "  joints/'  it 
contains  no  terms  for  the  orderly  carving  of  beef, 
mutton,  veal,  pork.  Russell,  indeed,  gives  direc- 
tions  for  the  cutting  and  distribution  of  those  com- 
mon viands ;  but  the  carver  refused  to  recognize 
them  as  proper  subjects  for  the  exercise  of  his 
graceful  art. 

The  same  terms,  employed  by  carvers  of  centuries 
prior  to  Wynkyn  de  Worde's  time,  survived  the 
fashions  of  the  Tudor  period,  and  the  changing 
humours  of  Caroline  England.  Appearing  in 
several  of  the  successive  cookery  books  of  Elizabeth 
of  England,  they  may  be  found  in  Robert  May's 
"  Accomplisht  Cook,"  and  other  gastronomic  works 
of  the  Restoration  period.     The  eighteenth  century 


WORK   FOR   WOMEN.  165 

was  passing  ere  they  slowly  dropped  from  the  talk 
of  old-fashioned  tables. 

When  a  change  of  gastronomic  taste,  for  which  the 
introduction  of  the  fork  was  largely  though  not 
altogether  accountable,  had  covered  the  English 
table  with  "joints,"  and  increased  the  demand  for 
skilful  carvers,  it  was  not  long  before  the  labour  of 
carving  was  transferred  from  gentle  serving-men, 
specially  dexterous  with  the  knife,  to  ladies  seated 
at  the  upper  end  of  the  festal  table. 

In  excluding  womankind  from  banquets  that  were 
not  of  a  private  character,  mediaeval  society  seems 
to  have  followed  a  fashion  still  observed,  with  occa- 
sional departures  from  ordinary  usage,  in  modern 
England.  Ladies,  indeed,  brightened  the  entertain- 
ments which  celebrated  the  inthronization  of  Arch- 
bishop Nevill,  in  Edward  the  Fourth's  time ;  and  we 
have  noticed  other  feasts  at  which  women  displayed 
their  beauty,  and  wit,  and  brave  adornments.  Of 
course  bridal  feasts,  the  grandest  of  all  mediaeval 
festivals,  required  the  presence  of  the  fair  sex.  But, 
as  a  general  rule,  the  quasi-public  dinners  and 
suppers  of  Feudal  England  were  enjoyed  by  the 
lords  of  creation  in  the  absence  of  their  dames  and 
damoiselles.  In  the  lower  grades  of  good  society,  it 
was  enough  for  "  madam"  to  superintend  the  opera- 
tions of  her  cooks  and  servitors  in  the  kitchen, 
whilst  the  "  master"  and  his  comrades  enjoyed  the 


166  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

good  cheer  which  she  provided  for  them.  And  even 
when  they  appeared  at  table,  the  ladies  of  chivalric 
time  did  not  receive  such  consideration  and  cour- 
teous treatment  as  are  accorded  to  them  universally 
in  the  modern  England  from  which  chivalry  is  said 
to  have  departed.  The  mediaaval  entertainer  of  a 
party,  consisting  of  persons  of  both  sexes,  was  at  no 
pains  to  match  his  guests,  so  that  there  was  a  cava- 
lier for  each  gentlewoman,  or  even  to  assign  a 
gallant  partner  to  each  lady,  when  the  number  of 
male  guests  would  enable  him  to  do  so.  The  con- 
venience of  the  men,  rather  than  the  pleasure  of  the 
women,  was  considered  in  the  arrangements  for 
seating  the  guests.  If  the  table  consisted  of  a 
single  board,  the  ladies,  unless  their  rank  demanded 
exceptional  courtesy,  seated  themselves  wherever 
they  could  find  room,  and  often  that  room  was 
found  at  the  lower  end  of  the  dining-hall.  If  the 
single  table  was  divided  by  the  "salt,"  a  gentle- 
woman often  found  herself  sitting  with  the  inferior 
guests  "  below"  the  line  of  honour,  whilst  men  of 
no  better  extraction,  and  of  worse  manners,  enjoyed 
the  daintier  fare  "  above  the  salt."  And  when  the 
table  consisted  of  several  separate  boards,  it  often 
happened  that  the  women  of  the  party  were  placed 
at  a  table  by  themselves,  without  a  gallant  of  any 
kind  to  bear  them  company. 

In  the  well-known  picture  of  the  King's  Lynn 


PLACES   FOR   LADIES. 


167 


peacock  feast  (taken  from  an  old  brass  in  the 
church  of  St.  Margaret,  Lynn  Regis,  Norfolk),  the 
party  consists  of  eleven  feasters  seated  in  a  line  on 
one  side  of  a  long  table.  Bight  of  the  eleven 
feasters  are  men,  and  probably  the  three  ladies  are 
indebted  for  their  honourable  places  at  the  board  to 
the  fact  that  they  are  not  members  of  the  Amphi- 
tryon's household.  The  tall  lady  who,  discharg- 
ing the  function  of  chief  waitress,  appears  at  one  of 
end  of  the  table  with  a  dished  peacock  in  her  hands, 
is  probably  the  mistress  of  the  house.  The  minis- 
tering women  at  the  other  end  of  the  table,  are 
also  of  gentle  degree — as  their  dress  and  coiffure 
attest — though  they  do  not  presume  to  seek  places 
at  the  board  which  they  cover  with  good  cheer. 

At  the  banquets  attending  Archbishop  Nevill's 
inthronization,  all  the  tables  laid  in  the  ^^  Hall " 
were  occupied  by  men ;  but  there  was  an  imposing 
show  of  noble  womankind  in  the  "  cheefe  Chamber.'* 
the  "  seconde  Chamber,"  and  tlje  "  great  Chamber," 
At  the  first  table  of  the  cheefe  Chamber,  the  Duke 
of  Gloucester,  as  the  king's  brother  and  representa- 
tive, bad  the  place  of  honour,  with  the  Duchess 
of  Suffolk  on  his  right,  and  the  Countess  of  West- 
moreland on  his  left-hand.  Three  other  ladies — the 
Countess  of  Northumberland,  and  two  of  the  Lord 
Warwick's  daughters,  also  sat  at  the  same  table. 
Hence  the  guests  at  the  royal  table  were  one  man 


168  A   BOOK   ABOUT   THE   TABLE. 

and  five  ladies.  None  but  ladies  sat  at  the  second 
table,  which  afforded  accommodation  to  sixteen  fair 
dames,  "the  Baronnesse  of  Graystocke,  with 
three  other  Baronnesses,  and  xii  other  ladies." 
Eighteen  gentlewomen — maids  of  honour  in  atten- 
dance on  the  ladies  at  the  royal  table  and  the 
second  table — were  provided  with  seats,  but  no 
cavaliers,  at  the  third  table  of  the  chief  room. 
Thus  in  the  whole  room  there  was  (gentle  servitors 
excepted)  only  one  man  to  thirty-nine  ladies.  If 
the  Duke  provided  small  talk  for  the  Duchess  and 
Countess  who  supported  him,  he  can  scarcely 
have  offered  many  courtesies  to  his  other  mess- 
mates, and  at  the  same  time  have  paid  adequate 
attention  to  the  good  cheer. 

The  **  seconde  Chamber"  contained  only  two 
tables,  and  none  but  ladies  were  received  at  them. 
The  feasters  at  the  superior  of  these  boards  were 
the  elder  Duchess  of  Suffolk,  the  Countess  of 
Warwick,  the  Countess  of  Oxford,  the  Lady 
Hastings,  and  the  Lady  Fitzhugh  ;  the  second 
table  being  laid  for  the  entertainment  of  "  the  Ladie 
Huntley,  the  Ladie  Strangwicke,  and  viii  other 
ladies."  Whether  the  Dowager  Duchess  of  Suffolk 
acted  as  president  at  this  dinner-party  of  fifteen 
ladies,  and  whether  the  fair  feasters  deUvered 
speeches  in  honour  of  holy  church,  when  they  had 
satisfied   their  appetite    for  food    and    drink,    the 


WOMEN   AND   WAITERS.  169 

chronicler  omits  to  state;  but  in  the  absence  of 
mess-raates  of  the  sterner  sex,  it  is .  probable  that 
the  ladies  at  table  were  a  rather  lifeless  and  silent 
assembly,  when  they  had  exchanged  opinions  on 
matters  of  toilet  and  housekeeping,  and  on  the 
various  shortcomings  of  their  servants.  Anyhow, 
we  may  be  sure  that  the  company  was  less  shrilly 
oratorical  than  a  ladies'  dinner-party  in  Fifth 
Avenue,  New  York.  Hilarious  loquacity  was  not 
"  the  mode  '*  of  dinner-parties  at  the  best  houses 
of  Feudal  England.  On  the  other  hand,  it 
should  be  remeinbered  that  though  they  had  no 
cavalier  seated  beside  them  to  whisper  flatteries 
and  co-operate  in  flirtation,  the  ladies  of  the 
"  seconde  Chamber"  could,  without  indecorum, 
gossip  with  the  waiters,  who  were  all  gentlemen  of 
good  family. 

Of  the  three  tables  in  the  "great  Chamber,'* 
two  were  laid  for  companies  altogether  made  up  of 
men,  and  the  third  was  provided  for  twenty-eight 
guests — fourteen  gentlewomen  and  fourteen  gentle- 
men of  unrecorded  names.  The  occupants  of  the 
high  table  in  this  chamber  being  four  bishops,  and 
the  second  being  assigned  to  fourteen  temporal 
peers,  it  may  be  assumed  that  the  third  party  of 
twenty-eight  comprised  only  ladies  and  gentlemen 
of  unexceptionable  quality. 

Even  so  late  as  Charles  the  Second's  time,  when 


170  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

they  had  long  held  possession  of  the  upper  end  of 
private  table,  it  was  usual  to  seat  the  ladies  apart 
from  the  men,  at  separate  tables,  and  sometimes 
in  separate  chambers,  on  occasions  of  quasi-public 
festivity.  Thus,  when  Mr.  Samuel  Pepys  went  in 
his  second-best  suit  to  Sir  Anthony  Bateman*s 
mayoral  banquet  at  the  Guildhall,  he  tells  us 
that  he  inspected  the  "  tables  prepared  for  the 
ladies,"  which  were  set  in  a  room  for  the  special 
accommodation  of  the  fair  feasters.  On  that  day 
no  man  dined  in  this  room,  though  gentlemen  were 
permitted  to  loiter  through  it  and  stare  at  the 
eating  ladies.  "  After  I  had  dined,"  the  diarist  con- 
tinues, "  I  and  Creed  rose,  and  went  up  and  down 
the  house,  and  up  to  the  lady's  room,  and  there 
stayed  gazing  upon  them.  But  though  there  were 
many  and  fine,  both  young  and  old,  yet  I  could  not 
discern  one  handsome  face,  which  was  very  strange. 
I  expected  musique,  but  there  was  none,  but  only 
trumpets  and  drums,  which  displeased  me.  The 
dinner,  it  seems,  is  made  by  the  Mayor  and  two 
sheriffs  for  the  time  being,  the  Mayor  paying  one 
half,  and  they  the  other.  And  the  whole,  says 
Proby,  is  reckoned  to  come  to  about  seven  or  eight 
hundred  pounds  at  most.  Being  tired  with  looking 
upon  a  company  of  ugly  women.  Creed  and  I  went 
away,  took  coach,  and  through  Cheapside,  and 
there  saw  the  pageants,    which   were  very   silly." 


PEPIS   IX   A   PET.  171 

Mr.  Pepys  was  sadly  out  of  temper  throughout 
the  day.  Having  left  his  Dew  velvet-lined  cloak  at 
home  "  because  of  the  crowde,"  he  felt  himself 
under-dressed,  and  consequently  was  out  of  conceit 
with  himself  and  the  whole  world.  Moreover  being 
**  under  a  vowe  "  he  could  not  cheer  himself  with 
wine,  though  with  an  uneasy  conscience  he  sipped 
a  little  hippocras.  The  ladies  would  not  have  been 
so  ugly  to  his  eyes,  had  he  worn  his  bravest  costume. 
Had  he  drunk  wine,  he  would  have  found  the  pageants 
less  "  silly,"  the  drums  and  trumpets  less  "  dis- 
pleasing,"   the   table-furniture    less   defective,    and 

the  fare  at  the  Merchant  Strangers'  board  more  to 

« 

his  taste. 

In  Elizabethan  England,  when  gallimawfreys  had 
given  way  to  the  substantial  fare  of  our  later 
cookery,  it  was  the  custom  at  private  dinners  to 
place  the  principal  joints  and  masses  of  meat  at 
the  upper  end  of  the  table,  above  the  salt,  so  that 
the  chief  guests  could  see  clearly  the  best  of 
the  good  cheer,  and  also  appropriate  the  choicest 
cuts,  before  the  inferior  folk  below  the  joint  of 
honour  were  served.  Fashion  having  thus  decided 
that  the  *•  carving  should  be  done  on  the  table,"  the 
ladies  were  invited  to  the  top  of  the  table,  not 
out  of  gallantry,  but  in  order  that  they  should  do 
the  work  which  could  no  longer  be  executed  con- 
veniently by  professional  carvers.     It  may  cost  the 


174  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

On  being  entertained  at  Badminton  by  his  Grace 
of  Beaufort,  the  Lord  Keeper  Guildford  saw  the 
Duchess  with  her  two  daughters  only  at  the  head 
of  her  oblong  table.*  Whether  the  Duchess  carved 
any  dish,  the  biographer  omits  to  state,  though  he 
is  careful  to  say  that  gentlemen  were  the  only 
liveried  servants  in  attendance,  and  that  differing 
from  the  common  use.  Badminton  custom  forbade 
guests  to  sit  over  the  oblong  table  **  with  tobacco 
and  healths."  It  is  improbable  that  Her  Grace,  who 
in  her  pride  would  allow  no  ladies  but  her  own 
daughters  to  sit  with  her  at  the  top  of  the  table, 
condescended  to  do  with  her  own  hands  any  of 
the  work  which  the  gentle  serving-men  and  the 
ladies  of  inferior  degree,  below  the  salt,  could 
readily  perform. 

*  "  The  ordinary  pastime  of  the  ladies  was  in  a  gallery  on  the 
other  side,  where  she,"  (i.e.,  the  duchess)  "  had  divers  gentlewomen 
commonly  at  work  upon  embroidery  and  fringe-making ;  for  all  the 
beds  of  state  were  made  and  finished  in  the  house.  The  meats 
were  very  neat,  and  not  gross ;  no  servants  in  livery  attended,  but 
those  called  gentlemen  only ;  and,  in  the  several  kinds,  even  down 
to  the  small  beer,  nothing  could  be  more  choice  than  that  table  was. 
It  was  an  oblong,  and  not  an  oval ;  and  the  duchess,  with  her  two 
daughters  only,  sat  at  the  upper  end.  If  the  gentlemen  chose  a 
glass  of  wine,  the  civil  offers  were  made  to  go  down  into  the  vaults, 
which  were  very  large  and  sumptuous,  or  servants,  at  a  sign  given, 
attended  with  salvers,  &c.,  and  many  a  brisk  went  round  about ;  but 
no  sitting  at  table  with  tobacco  and  healths,  as  the  common  use  is." 
Vide  Roger  Nokth's  "Life  or  Lord-Keeper  Guildpord." 


A   LADY   TO   CARVE.        ^  175 

But  that  the  Lord-Keeper  would  have  re^quired 
his  wife  to  carve  at  his  ceremonious  banquets, 
had  she  survived  the  date  of  his  instalment  in 
the  Marble  Chair,  readers  may  learn  from  Roger's 
account  of  his  grandest  brother's  hospitalities. 
When  the  keeper  of  "the  pestiferous  lump  of 
metal"  gave  a  dinner,  Roger — who,  though  a 
fairly  successful  barrister  and  Recorder  of  Bristol, 
was  also  his  lordship's  accountant  and  major-domo 
— used  to  sit  at  the  head  of  the  table,  "for  want 
of  a  lady  to  carve."  Save  as  a  chief  retainer  of 
his  lordship's  household,  bound  to  make  himself 
generally  useful,  Roger  had  no  title  to  so  high  a 
place,  nor  any  disposition  to  take  it  without  special 
permission.*  John  North,  the  Master  of  Trinity 
College,  Cambridge,  besides  insisting  that  the  ladies 
of  the  upper  table  were  bound  to  carve,  was  also  of 
opinion  that  they  ought  to  carve  expeditiously.  In 
early  manhood,  long  before  he  became  a  nervous 

*  "  His  lordship's  cnstom  was  after  dinner  to  retire  with  his  com- 
pany, which  were  not  a  few,  and  of  the  best  quality  in  town,  into  a 
withdrawing-room,  and  the  tea-table  followed,  where  his  youngest 
brother  officiated,  and  him  his  lordship  set  at  the  head  of  the  table, 
for  want  of  a  lady  to  carve.  His  suppers  were  in  another  room, 
and  where  some  of  his  best  friends,  and  some  (painted)  enemies 
ordinarily  assembled.  And  this  he  thought  the  best  refreshment 
the  whole  day  afforded  him;  and  before  twelve  he  retired,  and 
after  a  touch  of  his  music,  went  to  bed,  his  musician  not  leaving 
him  till  he  was  composed."—  Vide  Rogek  Noeth's  "  Life  op  Lord- 
Keepeb  Guildpobd." 


174  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

On  being  entertained  at  Badminton  by  his  Grace 
of  Beaufort,  the  Lord  Keeper  Guildford  saw  the 
Duchess  with  her  two  daughters  onty  at  the  head 
of  her  oblong  table.*  Whether  the  Duchess  carved 
any  dish,  the  biographer  omits  to  state,  though  he 
is  careful  to  say  that  gentlemen  were  the  only 
liveried  servants  in  attendance,  and  that  diflTering 
from  the  common  use.  Badminton  custom  forbade 
guests  to  sit  over  the  oblong  table  *'  with  tobacco 
and  healths."  It  is  improbable  that  Her  Grace,  who 
in  her  pride  would  allow  no  ladies  but  her  own 
daughters  to  sit  with  her  at  the  top  of  the  table, 
condescended  to  do  with  her  own  hands  any  of 
the  work  which  the  gentle  serving-men  and  the 
ladies  of  inferior  degree,  below  the  salt,  could 
readily  perform. 

*  "  The  ordinary  pastime  of  the  ladies  was  in  a  gallery  on  the 
other  side,  where  she,"  (i.e.,  the  duchess)  "  had  divers  gentlewomen 
commonly  at  work  upon  embroidery  and  fringe-making ;  for  all  the 
beds  of  state  were  made  and  finished  in  the  house.  The  meats 
were  very  neat,  and  not  gross ;  no  servants  in  livery  attended,  but 
those  called  gentlemen  only ;  and,  in  the  several  kinds,  even  down 
to  the  small  beer,  nothing  could  be  more  choice  than  that  table  was. 
It  was  an  oblong,  and  not  an  oval ;  and  the  duchess,  with  her  two 
daughters  mdy,  sat  at  the  upper  end.  If  the  gentlemen  chose  a 
glass  of  wine,  the  civil  offers  were  made  to  go  down  into  the  vaults, 
which  were  very  large  and  sumptuous,  or  servants,  at  a  sign  given, 
attended  with  salvers,  &c.,  and  many  a  brisk  went  round  about ;  but 
no  sitting  at  table  with  tobacco  and  healths,  as  the  common  use  is." 
Vide  Roger  North's  "Life  of  Lord-Keeper  Guildford." 


A   LADY   TO   CARVE.        ^  175 

But  that  the  Lord-Keeper  would  have  re^quired 
his  wife  to  carve  at  his  ceremonious  banquets, 
had  she  survived  the  date  of  his  instalment  in 
the  Marble  Chair,  readers  may  learn  from  Roger's 
account  of  his  grandest  brother's  hospitalities. 
When  the  keeper  of  "the  pestiferous  lump  of 
metal"  gave  a  dinner,  Roger — who,  though  a 
fairly  successful  barrister  and  Recorder  of  Bristol, 
was  also  his  lordship's  accountant  and  major-domo 
— used  to  sit  at  the  head  of  the  table,  "  for  want 
of  a  lady  to  carve."  Save  as  a  chief  retainer  of 
his  lordship's  household,  bound  to  make  himself 
generally  useful,  Roger  had  no  title  to  so  high  a 
place,  nor  any  disposition  to  take  it  without  special 
permission.*  John  North,  the  Master  of  Trinity 
College,  Cambridge,  besides  insisting  that  the  ladies 
of  the  upper  table  were  bound  to  carve,  was  also  of 
opinion  that  they  ought  to  carve  expeditiously.  In 
early  manhood,  long  before  he  became  a  nervous 

*  **  His  lordship's  cnstom  was  after  dinner  to  retire  with  his  com- 
pany, which  were  not  a  few,  and  of  the  best  quality  in  town,  into  a 
withdrawing-room,  and  the  tea-table  followed,  where  his  youngest 
brother  officiated,  and  him  his  lordship  set  at  the  head  of  the  table, 
for  want  of  a  lady  to  carve.  His  suppers  were  in  another  room, 
and  where  some  of  his  best  friends,  and  some  (painted)  enemies 
ordinarily  assembled.  And  this  he  thought  the  best  refreshment 
the  whole  day  afforded  him;  and  before  twelve  he  retired,  and 
after  a  touch  of  his  music,  went  to  bed,  bis  musician  not  leaving 
him  till  he  was  composed."—  Vide  Rogek  North's  "  Life  of  Lokd- 

KeEPEB  GXJILDFO&D." 


176  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

« 

valetudinarian  and  magnate  of  the  university,  John 
North  used  to  make  mirth  at  the  dinners  and 
suppers  of  the  best  houses  of  Charles  the  Second's 
town  by  noisily  demandipg  that  "the  ladies  at 
the  upper  end  of  the  table  "  should  handle  their 
carving-knives  briskly,  or  else  with  fit  humility 
•*  come  down  to  their  proper  places  at  the  lower 
end."*  A  free  talker  in  "  fit  company,"  and  a 
young  divine,  seeking  preferment  at  the  Merry 
Monarch's  court  by  a  loquacious  sprightliness 
that  would  not  now-a-days  recommend  a  clergy- 
man to  the  distributors  of  ecclesiastical  patronage, 
Jack  North  prided  himself  on  his  smartness  in 
bantering  womankind.  More  than  one  great  lady 
learnt  from  him  "  that  of  all  the  beasts  of  the 
field  God  Almighty  thought  woman  the  fittest 
companion  for  man." 

*  **  And  I  might,"  says  Boger  of  the  young  Cantabrigian  fellow, 
"  mention  some  ladies  with  whom  he  pretended  to  be  innocently 
merry  and  free ;  and  indeed  more  so  (often)  than  welcome,  as  when 
he  touched  the  pre-eminencies  of  their  sex.  As  for  instance,  saying 
that  of  all  the  beasts  of  the  field,  God  Almighty  thought  woman  the 
fittest  companion  for  man.  I  have  known  him  demand  of  the  ladies 
at  the  upper  end  of  the  table,  by  right  of  their  sitting  there,  that 
they  would  carve  for  him.  *  Else,'  said  he,  '  let  them  come  down  to 
the  places  at  the  lower  end.'  These  passages  and  the  like  show 
somewhat  of  his  humour,  which  made  him  very  popular  with  the 
ladies  and  young  company.  For,  notwithstanding  all  his  serious- 
ness and  study,  none  ever  was  more  agreeably  talkative,  in  fit  com- 
pany, than  he  was."— Fide  Eogek  Noeth's  ••  Life  of  Db.  Joun 
North." 


TUB    CLOSET   OF   BARITIES.  177 

When  they  had  been  thus  appointed  to  officiate 
as  distributors  of  meat,  even  as  their  precursors  of 
the  Anglo-Saxon  period  had  distributed  bread, 
English  gentlewomen  of  the  seventeenth  century 
were  instructed  by  school-mistresses  and  professors 
of  etiquette  as  to  the  ways  in  which  it  behoved  them 
to  carve  joints.  That  she  might  be  able  to  grasp 
a  roast  chicken  without  greasing  her  left  hand,  the 
gentle  housewife  was  careful  to  trim  its  feet  and  the 
lower  part  of  its  legs  with  cut  paper.  To  preserve 
the  cleanness  of  her  fingers,  the  same  covering  was 
put  on  those  parts  of  joints  which  the  carver  usually 
touched  with  the  left  hand,  whilst  the  right  made  play 
with  the  shining  blade.  The  paper-frill  which  may 
still  be  seen  round  the  bony  point  and  small  end  of  a 
leg  of  mutton,  is  a  memorial  of  the  fashion  in  which 
joints  were  dressed  for  the  dainty  hands  of  lady- 
carvers,  in  time  prior  to  the  introduction  of  the 
carving-fork,  an  implement  that  was  not  in  universal 
use  so  late  as  the  Commonwealth,  when  the  author 
of  "Lady  Rich's  Closet,'*  (1653)  admonished 
gentlewomen  to  adopt  the  convenient  instrument, 
in  defiance  of  a  common  prejudice.  "  In  carving  at 
your  own  table,"  says  the  author  of  that  enter- 
taining work  to  the  *  ingenious  gentlewoman  of  the 
period,'  *^ distribute  the  best  pieces  first;  and  it 
will  appear  very  comely  and  decent  to  use  a  fork  ; 
so  touch  no  meat  without  it." 

VOL.  I.  N 


l.-J  A    cr-OK  IBorr  TEE  TAIILE. 

Bv  the  same  competent  teacher,  the  "  ingenious 
gearlewoman"  of  a  troablous  time  was  instructed 
on  other  points  of  good  manners.  She  was  told  to 
sit  at  table  with  a  straight  bodv,  and,  even  though 
she  were  an  aunt,  to  refrain  from  resting  her  elbows 
OD  the  table-cloth.  She  might  not  "by  raveoous 
gesture  display  a  Toracioas  appetite."  If  she  talked 
whilst  eating,  or  "  smacked  like  a  pig,"  or  swal- 
lowed "  spoon-meat  so  hot "  as  to  bring  tears  into 
her  eyes,  she  would  be  taken  for  an  underbred 
person,  even  though  she  were  an  earl's  daughter. 
Shunning  the  appearance  of  greediness,  she  should 
aUo  avoid  such  squeamishness  aa  was  exhibited  by 
the  gentlewoman  who  ate  her  peas  singly,  or  by 
the  half-pea  at  a  time,  and  was  horriSed  at  the 
suggestion  that  she  should  take  them  by  the 
spoonful.  She  was  warned  still  moi-e  emphatic- 
ally not  to  driuk  herself  out  of  breath,  so  that  to 
recover  herself  she  would  have  to  "  blow  strongly." 
"  Throwing  down  your  hquor,"  says  the  "  accom- 
plished Lady  Rich,"  with  no  excessive  severity,  "as 
into  a  funnel,  is  an  action  fitter  for  a  juggler  than  a 
gentlewoman."* 

•  "A  gontlewoman,  being  at  table  abroad  or  at  home,  mnst 
obaorvB  to  keep  her  bodj  straight,  and  lean  not  bj  any  means  with 
her  elbow,  nor  by  ravenous  gesture  discover  a  Toracious  nppctite. 
Tjilk  not  when  you  have  meat  in  jour  moutb,  and  do  not  smack  like 
a  pig,  nor  venture  to  eat  apoou-meat  so  hot  that  the  tears  stand  in 
jour  ejcs ;  irhicb  is  as  unseemly  as  the  geutlewomaa  who  pretended 


HIGH   LIFE   IN  HOLLAND.  179 

Whilst  English  society  sat  at  meals,  with  the 
women  at  the  upper  and  the  men  at  the  lower  end 
of  the  table,  the  author  of  "  A  Brief  Character  of 
the  Low  Countries  under  the  States"  (1652), 
informed  his  readers  that  the  Dutch,  with  better 
taste  and  more  gallantry,  intermingled  the  sexes, 
so  that  every  lady  had  on  either  hand  a  gentleman 
to  amuse  her  with  gossip,  and  relieve  her  of  the 
labour  of  carving.  "  They  sit  not,"  said  the  des- 
criber  of  high  life  in  the  Low  Countries,  "as  we  in 
England,  men  together  and  women  first,  but  ever 
intermingled  with  a  man  between,  and  instead  of 
marchpanes  and  such  juncates,  it's  good  manners, 
if  any  there  be,  to  carry  away  a  piece  of  apple-pie 
in  your  pocket."  Originating  in  a  time  when 
fashion  had  discredited  the  ancient  custom  that 
permitted  guests  to  pocket  marchpanes  and  sweet- 

to  bave  as  little  a  stomach  as  she  had  a  month,  and  therefore  wonkl 
not  swallow  her  peas  by  spoonsful,  but  took  them  one  by  one,  and 
cut  them  into  two  before  she  could  eat  them.    It  is  very  uncomely 
to  drink  so  large  a  draught  that  your  breath  is  almost  gone,  and  are 
forced  to  blow  strongly  to  recover  yourself;  throwing  down  your 
liquor  as  into  a  funnel,  is  an  action  fitter  for  a  juggler  than  a  gentle- 
woman.   Thus  much  for  our  observations  in  general.     If  I  am 
defective  in  particulars,  your  own  prudence,  discretion,  and  curious 
observations  will  supply.    In  carving  at  your  own  table,  distribute 
the  best  pieces  first;  and  it  will  appear  very  comely  and  decent  to 
use  a  fork;  so  touch  no  meat  without  it." — Vide  "The  Accomplished 
Lady  Bich's  Closet  of  Karities;   or,  Ingenious  Gentlewoman's 
Delightful  Companion."  1653. 

N   2 


180  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

meats,  the  saying  "  Bat  what  you  like,  but  pocket 
none,"  is  a  comparatively  modem  maxim. 

In  olden  time,    carvers  at  table  had  to   observe 
nice  rules  in  discharging  their  functions.     Besides 
distributing  the  best  pieces  first,  they  were  required 
to    distribute   them   amongst  the  guests   of   first 
quality,  and  with  intelligent  regard  for  the  laws  of 
heraldic  pi'ecedence.     The  greatest  man  at  the  feast 
had   an   indefensible  title  to  the  liver  wing   of  a 
chicken,  and  to  the  thigh  of  a  woodcock ;  and  his 
wife  might  feel  affronted  if  she  were  helped  after  a 
lady  of  inferior  quality.     At  a  later  date,  fashion 
required  the  carver  to  consult  the  special  taste  of 
each  guest  before  helping  him  to  a  cut"of  sirloin  or 
a  piece  of  game.     Dr.  Kitchiner,  however,  had  the 
good  sense  to  decry  these  nice  formalities  of  a  too 
ceremonious  etiquette,  and  to  insist  that  the  carver 
should  make  expedition  rather  than  politeness  his 
first  object.     "  To  effect  this,"  he  urged,  "  fill  the 
plates  and  send  them  round,  instead  of  asking  each 
individual  if  they  choose  soup,  fish,  &c.,  or  what 
particular  part  they  prefer,  for,  as  they  cannot  be  all 
choosers,  you  will  thus  escape  making  any  invidious 
distinctions.     A  dexterous  carver  (especially  if  he 
be    possessed    with     that    determined    enemy    to 
ceremony  and  sauce,  a  keen  appetite),    will    help 
half-a-dozen  people   in   half  the  time  one  of  your 
would-be-thought    polite    folks    wastes   in   making 


EELICS   OF  PAST   MANNERS.  181 

civil  compliments."  To  save  time,  the  doctor  recom- 
mended that  poultry,  especially  turkeys  and  geese, 
should  be  sent  to  table  ready  cut  up.  When  the 
author  of  **  The  Cook's  Oracle "  gave  this  advice, 
he  little  imagined  how  near  was  the  time  when  the 
carving-knives  would  be  removed  from  the  table, 
and  the  carver's  work  would  be  done  by  waiters  at 
a  sideboard. 

Together  with  the  carving-knife  and  carVing-fork, 
other  implements  vanished  from  the  table;  the 
unsightly  "  rests  "  on  which  the  carver  reposed  his 
weapons  during  the  intermissions  of  his  industry ; 
and  the  long,  pointed  "  steel"  on  which  he  sharpened 
his  blade  with  clattering  noise,  like  a  butcher  pre- 
paring to  serve  customers  at  his  stall.  These 
articles  may,  indeed,  still  be  seen  on  the  tables  of 
old-fashioned  folk ;  but  they  deserve  mention  in  a 
work  which  will  be  popular  reading  long  after  they 
have  become  curious  relics  of  past  manners,  and 
shall  be  found  on  collectors'  shelves  of  social  anti- 
quities, by  the  side  of  snuff- bottles,  decanter-slides, 
and  tinder-boxes. 

The  Dutch  fashion  of  placing  men  and  women 
alternately  at  table  having  been  adopted  by  our 
ancestors  towards  the  close  of  the  seventeenth 
century,  it  was  not  long  ere  the  toils  of  carving 
passed  from  the  gentler  sex  to  more  muscular 
bands.     Retaining  the  honour  of  an  office  to  which 


182  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

she  had  imparted  dignity,  the  lady  of  the  house 
relinquished  its  labour  to  the  men  at  her  side ;  and 
together  with  the  honour,  she  kept  the  seat  which 
had  been  conceded  to  her  as  a  handler  of  the  great 
knife. 

That  her  presence  in  that  throne  of  honour  con- 
tributes largely  to  the  success  of  a  dinner,  Brillat- 
Savarin  bore  testimony  with  proper  enthusiasm. 
The  same  critical  epicure  also  maintained  that  whilst 
she  gave  splendour  and  animation  to  the  repast,  the 
luxuries  of  the  table  heightened  her  beauty  and 
rendered  her  charms  less  perishable.  "  La  gour- 
mandise,"  says  the  Frenchman,  "  est  favorable  a  la 
beauts."  And  he  adds,  "  Une  suite  d'observations 
exactes  et  rigoureuses  a  d^montr^  qu'un  regime 
succulent,  d^icat,  et  soign^  repousse  longtemps  et 
bien  loin  les  apparences  extdrieures  de  la  vieillesse 
.  .  .  .  il  est  ^galement  vrai  de  dire  que,  toutes 
choses  dgales,  ceux  qui  savent  manger  sont  com- 
parativement  de  dix  ans  plus  jeunes  que  ceux  k  qui 
cette  science  est  etrangere." 

Less  gallant  than  the  gastronomic  lawyer,  Grimod 
de  la  Reyniere  held  that  women  were  out  of  place  in 
the  company  of  feasting  epicures,  whose  attention 
should  not  be  diverted  from  beautiful  things  on  to 
lovely  creatures  at  the  table.  After  coffee,  the  fair 
sex  might  resume  their  rights,  which  fell  into  abey- 
ance during  a  grand   meal.     But  fine  gentleman 


HIGHER   EDUCATION   OF   WOMEN.  183 

though  he  was,  M.  de  la  Reynifere  was  a  vulgarian 
at  table,  who  did  not  blush  to  declare  that  ceremo- 
nious politeness  should  be  banished  from  the  festal 
board.  "  Toutes  les  c^r^monies,'*  he  says,  "  lors- 
qu'on  est  k  table  vont  toujours  au  detriment  du 
diner.  Le  grand  point  c'est  de  manger  chaud,  pro- 
prement,  long-temps,  et  beaucoup." 

Whilst  Brillat-Savarin  wished  woman  to  partici- 
pate in  the  finer  pleasures  of  the  table,  in  order  that 
she  should  enhance  and  preserve  her  beauty,  Louis 
Eustache  Ude,  whilom  chef  to  Louis  XVI.  and  the 
Earl  of  Sefton,  urged  that  the  young  ladies  of  noble 
houses  should  be  brought  at  early  age  to  their 
parent's  tables,  for  the  education  of  their  palates, 
and  for  the  development  of  gastronomic  taste.  Even 
more  than  from  the  English  fog,  which  depressed 
his  spirits,  and  from  the  prejudices  of  the  English 
physicians,  who  held  his  art  in  contempt  bordering 
on  abhorrence,  Ude  suffered  from  the  coldness  and 
indifference  which  the  women  of  our  aristocracy  ex- 
hibited to  his  special  pursuit.  Alike  in  gourmandise 
and  friandise,*  he  found  them  deficient  insensibility 

*  La  gonrmandise  est  une  pr^fi^rence  passionn^e,  raisonn^e,  et 
habituelle  poar  les  objets  qai  flattent  le  gout.  La  gourmandise  est 
ennemie  des  ezc^s;  tout  homme  qui  s'iudig^re  ou  s'eniyre  court 
risque  d'etre  ray^  des  controles.  La  gourmandise  comprend  aussi  la 
friandise,  qui  n'est  autre  que  la  mdme  pr^r6rence  appliqu<Se  aux  mets 
Idgers,  d^licats,  de  peu  de  volume,  aux  confitures,  aux  patisseries, 
etc.    C*est  une  modification  introduite  en  favour  des  femmes  et  des 


]84  A   BOOK   ABOUT  THE   TABLE. 

and  enthusiasm.  "  The  ladies  of  England,"  he 
wrote  towards  the  close  of  his  beneficent  career, 
"  are  unfavourably  disposed  to  our  art ;  yet  I  find  I 

no  difficulty  in  assigning  the  cause  of  it.  It  is  par- 
ticularly the  case  with  them  fand  indeed  it  is  so  in 
some  measure  with  our  own  sex)  that  they  are 
not  introduced  to  their  parents'  table  till  their 
palates  have  been  completely  benumbed  by  the 
strict  diet  observed  in  the  nursery  and  boarding- 
schools." 

Since  Louis  Eustache  Ude  wrote  thus  feelingly  on 
a  subject  for  deep  regret,  the  culinary  education  of 
our  womankind,  instead  of  improving,  has  greatly 
deteriorated.  Whilst  their  organs  of  taste  are  still 
torpefied  by  a  restricted  diet,  consisting  chiefly  of  ^ 

mutton  and  bread  and  butter,  our  gentle  girls  re- 
ceive no  systematic  instruction  in  cookery  and  the 
mysteries  of  the  kitchen,  in  the  period  of  expanding 
intelligence  that  intervenes  between  scholastic  disci- 
pline and  marriage.  Whatever  fragmentary  know- 
ledge they  possess  of  these  high  matters,  has  been 
picked  up  at  rout-suppers  and  clandestine  visits  to 
the  housekeeper's  room.  Their  grandmothers  seldom 
survived  their  teens  without  acquiring  at  least  a  1 

superficial  acquaintance  with  the  theory  and  prac- 
tice of  the  "  generous  art."     But  now-a-days  not 

bomraes  qui  lenr  ressemblent." — Vide  Brillat-Savarin's  **Phtsio- 
LOGiE  Du  Gout." 


THE    SCHOOL   OF   COOKERY.  185 

one  young  gentlewoman  in  a  hundred  can  make  an 
omelette  or  cook  a  sole  au  gratin.  Misfortune  has 
attended  several  attempts  to.  establish  seminaries  for 
the  sufficient  instruction  of  womankind  in  the  affairs 
of  the  table.  The  change  of  fashion,  which  degraded 
carving  from  the  rank  of  the  elegant  accomplish- 
ments, gave  the  coup  de  grace  to  the  Beak  Street 
Academy,  where,  so  late  as  thirty  years  since,  a 
young  lady  on  the  eve  of  her  marriage  might  ac- 
quire the  art  of  cutting  meat,  in  a  course  of  twelve 
lessons,  at  a  guinea  a  lesson,  exclusive  of  .the  cost 
of  the  viands  on  which  she  operated.  A  similar 
fate  befell  the  Berners  Street  School  of  Cookery, 
which  gave  its  grandest  dinner  on  the  day  that  saw 
Alexandra  of  Denmark  pass  through  London  on 
her  triumphal  way  to  Windsor  and  wedlock.  The 
South  Kensington  School  of  Cookery  opened  under 
fairer  auspices,  but  hitherto  Professor  Buckmaster's 
zeal  and  ability  nave  barely  preserved  it  from  the 
failure  which  usually  follows  ridicule. 


186 


CHAPTER  XL 

FOEKS    AND    NAPERY. 

**  Here  I  will  mention  a  thing  that  might  have  been  spoken  of 
before  in  the  discourse  of  the  first  Italian  towne.  I  observed  a 
custome  in  all  those  Italian  cities  and  townes  through  which  I  passed, 
that  is  not  used  in  any  other  country  that  I  saw  in  my  travels,  neither 
do  I  thinke  that  any  other  nation  of  Christendome  doth  use  it,  but 
only  Italy.  The  Italian,  and  also  most  strangers  that  are  com  mo- 
rant  in  Italy,  do  alwaies  at  their  meates  use  a  little  forke  when  they 
cut  their  meat.  For  while  with  their  knife  which  they  hold  in  one 
hand,  they  cut  the  meate  out  of  the  dish,  they  fasten  their  forke,  which 
they  hold  in  the  other  hand,  upon  the  same  dish ;  so  that  whatsoever 
be  be  that  sitteth  in  the  company  of  any  others  at  meals,  should  un- 
advisedly touch  the  dishe  of  meate  with  his  fingers  from  which  all  at 
the  table  doe  cut,  he  will  give  occasion  of  offence  unto  the  company, 
as  having  transgressed  the  lawcs  of  good  manners,  insomuch  that  for 
bis  error  he  shalle  be  at  least  brow-beaten  if  not  reprehended  in 
wordes.  This  form  of  feeding,  I  understand,  is  generally  used  in 
all  places  of  Italy ;  their  forkes  being  for  the  most  of  yron  or  Steele, 
and  some  silver,  but  those  are  used  only  by  gentlemen.  The  reason 
of  their  curiosity  is,  because  the  Italian  cannot  by  any  means  indure 
to  have  his  dish  touched  with  fingers,  seeing  that  all  men's  fingers 
are  not  alike  cleane.  Hereupon  I  myselfe  thought  good  to  imitate 
the  Italian  fashion  by  this  forked  cutting  of  meate,  not  only  while  I 
was  in  Italy,  but  also  in  Germany,  and  oftentimes  in  England  since  I 
came  home,  being  once  quipped  for  that  frequent  using  of  my  forke 
by  a  certain  learned  gentleman,  a  familiar  friend  of  mine,  one  Mr. 
Lawrence  Whitaker,  who  in  his  merry  humour  doubted  not  to  call 
me  Furcifer  only  for  using  a  fork  at  feeding,  but  for  no  other 
cause."— Fwfo  TnpMAs  Coetatb's  "  Crudities." 

"  "piNGERS  were  made    before  forks,"  says  the 

-L      familiar  adage    that  had  its   origin   in   the 

warm  disdain    with    which   our   ancestors   of    the 


PRIMITIVE   POT-HOOKS,  187 

seventeenth  century  repudiated  the  Italian  table- 
fork  as  a  fantastic  and  even  impious  contrivance. 
The  ancient  people  of  the  world  fingered  their 
cooked  meat,  and  it  was  only  at  a  quite  recent  date 
that  the  modern  peoples  adopted  the  pronged  tool 
by  which  we  convey  food  to  the  mouth  without 
soiling  the  hand. 

Products  of  necessity,  the  first  culinary  forks 
were  devised  for  the  benefit  of  artistes  bent  on 
withdrawing  sodden  flesh  from  a  boiling  cauldron. 
The  Greek  creagra — a  stafi^,  fitted  at  the  lower  end 
with  a  hook,  or  with  prongs  that  bore  a  distant  re- 
semblance to  human  fingers — was  a  rude  pot-fork, 
which,  though  greatly  serviceable  to  cooks,  would 
have  been  of  no  convenience  to  a  reclining  gour- 
mand. Possessing  several  varieties  of  this  kitchen 
tool,  the  Romans,  notwithstanding  their  care  for 
the  caprice  as  well  as  for  the  comfort  of  epicurean 
feasters,  never  produced  a  table  fork,  though  it  was 
more  needed  by  the  ancient,  whose  recumbent 
posture  deprived  him  of  the  use  of  one  arm,  than 
by  the  mediaBvalist  who,  sitting  at  meat,  could 
serve  his  mouth  with  both  hands.  Caylus  and 
Grignon,  indeed,  maintain  that  table-forks  were  not 
absolutely  unknown  to  the  imperial  gastronomers  ; 
but  their  opinion,  which  never  had  the  testimony  of 
suflBcient  facts,  has  been  altogether  discredited. 
Had  the  luxurious  Romans   been  users  of  forks. 


188  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

some  specimens  of  the  implement  would  certainly 
have  been  found  in  the  ruins  of  Herculaneum  and 
Pompeii. 

But  though  they  fed  themselves  with  their  fingers, 
it  must  not  be  imagined  that  the  mediaBvalists 
were  altogether  fork-less.  Forty  years  since,  a 
fork  of  Anglo-Saxon  manufacture  was  discovered 
in  Wiltshire,  under  circumstances  which  leave  no 
room  for  doubt  that  it  was  made  at  least  as  early 
as  the  later  part  of  the  ninth  century.  Another 
Anglo-Saxon  fork,  described  in  Akerman's  Pagan 
Saxondorrif  is  a  bone-handled  implement  that  some 
foppish  Thane  may  have  used  to  the  mingled  sur- 
|:)rise  and  contempt  of  his  simpler  acquaintances. 
And  from  that  period  to  the  close  of  the  Tudor 
time,  there  is  evidence  that  our  ancestors  had  a 
few  forks,  long  before  they  were  commonly  placed 
on  the  English  table,  and  regarded  as  necessary 
articles  of  furniture.  Queen  Elizabeth  had  at 
least  three  forks,  one  of  "  crystal,  garnished 
with  gold,  and  sparks  of  garnets ;  another  of  coral, 
slightly  garnished  with  gold ;  and  a  third  of  gold 
garnished  with  two  little  rubies,  two  little  pearls 
pendant,  and  a  little  coral."  But  it  is  obvious 
that  these  daintily  set  and  jewelled  tools  were  never 
meant  for  serious  use.  Presents  from  courtiers 
who  sought  her  royal  smile  with  gifts  curious 
for  their   costly   whimsicalness,  her   Highness  re- 


QUEEN  Elizabeth's  porks.  189 

garded  them  as  toys  for  the  casket,  or  cabinet, 
rather  than  as  tools  for  the  table.  She  may  have 
used  one  of  them  to  pick  a  sweetmeat  or  a 
candied  fruit  from  a  dish  of  syrup ;  but  it  cer- 
tainly  never  occurred  to  her  to  put  them  into 
gobbets  of  venison,  or  the  breast  of  a  Michaelmas 
goose.  To  the  last,  whether  eating  in  public  or 
private,  the  virgin-queen  fingered  her  victuals,  and 
would  have  imputed  sheer  madness  to  any  courtier 
who  had  prophesied  that,  ere  another  century 
had  passed,  no  queen  of  England  would  be  able 
to  do  likewise  without  rousing  the  disgust  of 
all  beholders  of  her  incivility.  As  for  her  fair 
cousin,  Mary  of  Scotland — ^that  paragon  of  feminine 
delicacy  and  winsomness  to  manufacturers  of  his- 
torical romance — it  is  probable  that  her  little 
head  fell  from  her  neck,  ere  her  eyes  had  seen 
even  a  toy -fork.  • 

Whilst  the  spoon  was  the  only  implement  used 
in  feeding  the  mouth,  entertainers  were  not  re- 
quired to  provide  the  guest  with  one.  Whether 
he  came  for  a  month  or  a  day,  to  a  series  of 
banquets  or  a  single  repast  every  guest  always 
brought  his  spoon  in  his  pocket.  Never  travelling 
without  the  implement,  which  was  as  universal 
a  piece  of  personal  equipment  as  a  watch 
is  at  the  present  time,  the  modish  man  of  olden 
England    no   sooner    found  himself   seated   at    a 


190  A   BOOK  ABOUT  THE   TABLE. 

Strange  board  than,  taking  his  spoon-case  from 
its  place  of  concealment,  he  exhibited  the  spoon, 
which  had  usually  been  given  him  by  one  of  his 
baptismal  sponsors.  It  was  the  same  with  women 
and  children.  When  everyone  used  a  spoon,  and 
hosts  seldom  thought  of  providing  spoons,  the  spoon 
was  a  piece  of  portable  property  that  went  wherever 
its  owner  went.* 

As  to  shape,  the  most  common  was  the  apostle 
spoon,  i.e.y  the  spoon  whose  handle  was  fashioned 
in  the  likeness  of  one  of  the  apostles.  Spoons  so 
made  were  usually  given  at  christenings  by  spiritual 
parents  to  their  spiritual  children ;  richer  sponsors 
giving  an  entire  set  of  twelve  spoons,  whilst  the 
less  opulent  or  liberal  god  parent  gave  a  set  of 
four,  or  a  single  spoon.  The  gift,  besides  being 
typical  of  the  material  abundance  which  the 
sponsor  of  course  desired  for  the  child  of  grace, 
and  being  fashioned  so  as  to  remind  him  in  after 
years  at  every  meal  of  his  religious  obligations,  was 
also  an  eminently  useful  present  in  the  days  when 

*  Only  a  few  years  since  it  was  usual  with  the  keepers  of  boarding- 
schools  to  require  each  of  their  pupils  to  bring  a  spoon,  or  a  spoon 
and  fork,  for  his  or  her  special  use.  This  practice,  still  maintained 
in  a  few  old-fashioned  schools,  is  the  "  survival "  of  the  once 
universal  fashion  that  required  guests  to  bring  their  own  table 
implements  to  their  entertainer's  board.  As  spoons  became  cheaper 
and  more  plentiful,  the  custom  became  less  and  less  general ;  and 
at  present  its  observance,  even  amongst  school-children,  is  not 
common. 


SPOONS  AND   MUGS.  191 

to  go  spoonless  was  nearly  tantamount  to  going 
supperless,  since  the  person  without  a  spoon  in  his 
wallet  was  likely  to  fare  badly  even  at  a  liberal 
table.  Such  good  reasons  cannot  be  urged  in 
defence  of  the  conventional  christening  present  in 
these  days,  when  sppons  of  secular  pattern  are  still 
given  at  the  font  to  children  who  are  never  ex- 
pected to  use  them  on  arriving  at  years  of  discre- 
tion. Now-a-days,  the  customary  offering  of  a  spoon 
is  the  mere  "  survival"  (as  an  excellent  social  writer 
would  term  it)  of  a  usage  that  was  convenient  and 
practically  beneficial  when  spoons  were  not  abun- 
dant in  every  household.  The  same  may  be  said  of 
the  silver  "  mug/'  a  gift  which,  when  handsome 
drinking  vessels  were  not  easily  attainable,  proved  a 
most  useful  possession  to  the  Christian,  who,  having 
acquired  it  in  infancy  from  a  godfather,  used  it 
daily  through  his  adult  life  for  caudle,  wine,  or 
ale. 

Spoons  were  made  of  several  materials.  In  the 
rich  or  fairly  prosperous  circles  they  were  usually  of 
silver,  which  was  sometimes  gilt.  But  for  folk  of 
the  poorer  sort,  spoons  were  made  of  tinned  iron, 
horn,  wood,  and  other  cheap  stuff.  "  Til  give  him 
a  dozen  latten  spoons,  and  thou  shalt  translate 
tliera,"  Shakespeare  is  said  to  have  remarked  to 
Ben  Jonson,  when  about  to  stand  godfather  to  one 
of  his  fellow-poet's  children,  making  a  pun,  whose 


192  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

badness  does  not  strengthen  the  credibility  of  an 
apocryphal  story.  Spoons  of  tinned  iron  were 
called  latten  spoons.  The  meanest  of  all  spoons 
was  the  wooden  spoon.  And  it  is  worthy  of  remark 
that  this  cheapest  of  table  implements  has,  like  the 
spoon  of  precious  metal,  given  us  a  pungent  and 
long-lived  adage. 

To  say  of  a  man,  "  He  was  born  with  a  silver 
spoon  in  his  mouth,"  was  equivalent  to  calling  him 
a  prosperous  fellow,  whose  good  fortunes  commenced 
at  his  very  birth,  when, he  had  a  sponsor  rich  enough 
to  give  him  a  silver  spoon.  And  the  meaning  of 
the  apt  words  was  extended  so  as  to  cover  all  the 
favourites  of  fortune  whose  good  estate,  in  no  re- 
spect consequent  on  their  own  merits,  came  to  them 
in  the  cradle  from  the  benevolence  of  other  persons. 
To  remark  of  a  man  that  "  he  had  always  fed  him- 
self with  the  wooden  spoon,"  implied  that  he  was  a 
person  of  no  account,  who  at  any  banquet  would  of 
course  sit  "  below  the  salt"  with  inferior  company, 
and  fill  himself  with  the  poorer  fare,  as  became  a 
guest  armed  only  with  a  spoon  of  wood.  When  it 
had  passed  from  general  folk-lore,  this  saying  won  a 
special  significance  at  the  universities.  At  Cam- 
bridge, to  this  day,  the  occupant  of  the  lowest  place 
in  the  mathematical  tripos  is  termed  "  the  wooden 
spoon,"  i.p.y  is  rated  as  a  scholar  who,  when  feasting 
at  the  table  of  knowledge,  sat  with    the  users    of 


TOUEIST  OP  OLDEN   TIMES.  193 

wooden  spoons,  and  was  only  allowed  to  help  him- 
self to  the  poorer  fare  of  the  hoi  polloiy  below  the 
salt.  A  propos  of  this  mention  of  the  salt,  it  may  be 
observed  that  the  word,  when  applied  to  the  choicest 
persons  of  company,  had  a  twofold  meaning.  Be- 
sides implying  that  they  gave  flavour  and  piquancy 
to  the  social  mess,  it  also  intimated  that  they  were 
the  proper  occupants  of  the  higher  places  above  the 
great  salt-cellar. 

Our  ancestors  were  still  feeding  themselves 
without  forks,  on  fare  something  more  massive 
and  heavy  than  the  food  of  the  medisBval  cuisine, 
when,  in  the  time  of  James  the  First,  it  entered  the 
head  of  a  Somersetshire  squire  to  pack  his  traps, 
and  start  for  a  five  months'  tour  in  "  France,  Savoy, 
Italy,  Rhetia,  commonly  called  the  Orisons  country, 
Helvetia,  alias  Switzerland,  some,  parts  of  Germany 
and  the  Netherlands."  It  was  a  time  when  English 
gentlemen  seldom  visited  the  Continent  for  plea- 
sure. The  Reformation  had  put  an  end  to  the 
pilgrimages  to  Rome  and  Jerusalem,  which  made 
travellers  of  so  many  of  the  English  folk  of  our 
Catholic  period.  Many  years  had  also  passed  since 
English  men  and  women  had  fled  from  the 
Marian  inquisitors  to  Switzerland  and  the  Low 
Countries.  It  was  not  yet  the  mode  with  British 
parents  to  send  their  "  youngsters  of  quality," 
under   the   guardianship   of  reverend   bear-leaders 

VOL.    I.  0 


194  A  BOOK  ABOUT- THE  TABLE. 

for  "the  grand  tour;"  and  the  newest  kind  of 
modern  "  tourism/* .  with  its  railways  and  steam- 
boats, was  the  unimagined  fashion  of  a  distant 
future. 

When  Tom  Coryate  declared  his  purpose  to  see 
the  world  on  the  other  side  of  the  English  Channel, 
and  even  to  work  his  way  to  Italy,  there  was  a  stir 
in  "  the  hungry  aire  of  Odcombe,  in  the  county  of 
Somerset.'*  Tom's  neighbours  were  alarmed  for 
his  health,  his  morals,  his  religion.  If  he  were  not 
caught  by  the  Jesuits  and  won  over  to  idolatry,  he 
would  return  to  Somersetshire  with  vicious  manners 
and  a  broken  constitution.  But  their  expostulations 
were  in  vain.  Like  other  wilful  men,  Mr.  Coryate 
took  his  own  way  ;  and  the  consequences  to  society 
were  noteworthy. 

An  epicure  and  lover  of  sights,  Mr.  Coryate 
partook  freely  of  foreign  dishes,  whilst  he  gathered 
materials  for  his  delightful  narrative  of  travel.  At 
Cremona  he  ate  frogs  with  gust.  He  drank  wine 
from  the  famous  Heidelberg  cask.  At  Venice  he 
saw  without  disapprobation  women  on  the  stage  of 
the  principal  theatre — "  a  thing/'  he  remarks, 
"that  I  never  saw  before,  though  I  have  heard 
that  it  hath  been  sometimes  used  in  London,  and 
they  performed  it  with  as  good  a  grace,  action,  and 
gesture,  and  whatever  convenient  for  a  player,  as 
ever  I  saw  any  masculine  actor/'     He  saw  other 


SOUTHERN  NOVRLTIES.  195 

ladies,  whose  vocation  was  even  more  questionable 
than  that  of  the  she-actors,  and  whose  chopines 
(high-heeled  shoes)  appeared  to  him  worthy  of 
especial  notice.  But  of  all  the  Southern  novelties, 
none  delighted  him  more  completely  than  the 
Italian  fork,  the  Italian  fan,  and  the  Italian  um- 
brella. 

It  was  left  for  Jonas  Han  way,  in  the  middle  of 
the  following  century,  to  emulate  the  courage  of 
Thomas    Coryate,    and    repeat    his    triumph    over 
popular    prejudice,    in    the    eventually    successful 
battle  for  the  sunshade  and  the  parapluie.     But  to 
Coryate  belongs  the  honour  of  laying  forks  on  the 
English  table.     It  may  not  be  imagined,  however, 
that    the    innovation    was    accomplished    without 
strenuous  opposition.     Apt  at  times  to  wax  furious 
about  trifles,  English  society  was  pricked  by  the 
pronged  tool  into  a  rage  of  contemptuous  indigna- 
tion which  it  is  impossible  to  recall  without  a  smile. 
Whilst  the  pulpit  denounced,  and  the  stage  derided 
the  new  instrument,   the  sages  of  the   fireside — 
forgetting  that  fingers   were   made  before  knives 
and   spoons,   as  well  as  before  forks — pushed  the 
novelty  aside  with  disdainful  words,  placed  at  the 
opening  of  this   chapter.     To  the   delight  of  his 
hearers,    an    angry  preacher    maintained   that    to 
touch  meat  with    a  fork  was  to  declare  impiously 
that    God's    comfortable    "  creatures "    were    not 

0  2 


196  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

worthy  of  being  touched  by  human  hands.  Pan- 
dering to  the  popular  excitement,  Beaumont  and 
Fletcher  seasoned  one  of  their  plays  with  a  fling 
at  the  "  fork-carving  traveller,"  whom  Lawrence 
Whitaker  had  nicknamed  "  furcifer," — "  only  for 
using  a  forke  at  feeding,  but  no  other  cause,"  says 
Coryate,  who  had  enough  Latin  to  know  the  precise 
meaning  of  the  opprobrious  designation.  The  fight 
between  Furcifer  and  his  foes  was  at  its  fiercest 
heat,  when  Fynes  Morison  in  his  "  Itinerary,"  ad- 
vising all  young  travellers  to  avoid  a  bootless 
conflict,  urged  them,  on  "  returning  home,  to  lay 
aside  the  fork  of  Italy,"  as  well  as  "  the  affected 
gesture  of  France  and  all  strange  apparel." 

But  though  it  delayed,  such  vehement  intolerance 
could  not  prevent  the  adoption  of  a  simple  con- 
trivance, that  in  course  of  time  commended  itself  to 
nice  feeders  of  either  sex,  and  to  all  orderly  persons. 
It  had  no  effect  whatever  on  Coryate,  whose  good- 
humour  equalled  his  daring.  Decried  and  repudi- 
ated by  the  well-dressed  mob,  he  had  no  sooner 
endured  a  repulse  than  he  renewed  the  charge  with 
smiling  face  and  shining  steel.  Fixing  his  fork,  and 
rushing  for  the  thousandth  time  on  his  adversary, 
he  eventually  thrust  it  between  the  teeth  of 
"  society." 

In  his  "  Cosmography"  (1652)  Heylin  alluded  to 
"  the  use  of  silver  forks  which  is  by  some  of  our 


THE    SriiVER-FORK    SOHOOti.  197 

spruce  gallants  taken  up  of  late ;"  and  at  the  same 
time  gentlewomen  were  admonished  to  use  the  fork 
in  carving.  By  the  close  of  Charles  the  Second's 
reign,  forks,  though  still  derided  by  hinds  and 
artisans,  were  seen  on  all  fairly  furnished  English 
tables. 

In  a  museum  of  social  curiosities  a  large  cabinet 
might  be  filled  with  single  specimens  of  the  various 
forks,  commonly  used  by  our  ancestors  between  the 
days  of  Anne  and  Victoria.  There  were  forks  with 
any  number  of  prongs  between  two  and  six.  Usually 
made  of  steel,  they  had  handles  of  several  materials, 
and  half  a  hundred  diversities  of  shape.  Forks  with 
green,  yellow,  and  pink  handles  have  disappeared, 
and  the  steel  table-fork  has  become  an  almost  obso- 
lete thing  in  these  days  of  sham  silver.  The  few 
forks  of  Heylin*s  time  were  for  the  most  part  of  silver. 
But  the  silver  fork  was  somewhat  rare  till  the 
opening  of  the  present  century.  As  the  type  of 
inferior  gentility,  it  was  used  by  the  satirists  of 
Geprge  the  Fourth's  time  to  designate  the  school  of 
super-genteel  writers  who  fifty  years  since  described 
the  beau-monde  which  they  knew  only  by  report. 
The  **  silver-fork  school "  was  contemporaneous 
with,  and  closely  related  to,  the  "  Rosa  Matilda" 
school  of  novelist.  So  late  as  thirty  years  since, 
the  introducers  of  the  silver  fork  amongst  our  pro- 
vincial commonalty  encountered  no  little  opposition. 


198  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

"Waiter,  take  away  that  thing  and  bring  me  a 
fork,"  a  fox-hunting  squire  once  said  in  our  hear- 
ing at  a  hunt-dinner.  The  thing  he  contemptu- 
ously rejected  was  a  silver  fork. 

The  fork  did  much  for  the  simplification  and 
advancement  of  the  national  cuisine  by  encouraging 
the  taste  for  solid  viands  and  natural  flavours,  that 
had  been  becoming  more  and  more  general  since 
the  days  of  Elizabeth,  who,  holding  the  ancient 
"  gallimawfreys"  in  low  esteem,  liked  a  "  cut  of 
roast"  above  all  things.  The  "  delicate  slice"  was 
a  thing  unknown  to  the  media9val  epicures,  whd 
fingered  their  "gobbets,"  or  spooned  their  "  dices" 
of  meats,  that  to  be  justly  appreciated  should  be 
eaten  in  dainty  slivers,  thin  as  silk  and  light  as 
gossamer.  The  beef  of  Old  England  never  had  its 
proper  honour  until  the  fork  enabled  the  carver  to 
cut  it  properly. 

The  fork  had  also  notable  effects  on  the  equip- 
ment and  manners  of  the  English  table.  The 
piquant  author  of  "  The  Art  of  Dining,"  remarks 
of  the  Roman  epicures,  "It  is  quite  frightful  to 
think  how  they  must  have  slobbered  their  long 
beards  and  togas,  in  conveying  food  from  the  table 
to  the  mouths  without  forks  ....  and  it  is  diffi- 
cult to  conceive  how  they  could  manage  to  drink  at 
all,  unless  they  sat  up  as  the  goblet  was  passed  to 
them."     Our  mediaeval  ancestors  had  a  great  ad  van- 


MADAME   EGLENTINB.  199 

tage  over  the  Romans  in  their  adoption  of  a  posture 
that  left  both  hands  free  for  action.  But  one  part 
of  Mr.  Hay  ward's  animadversion  on  the  Apician 
gourmands  is  applicable  to  the  English  "  quality'* 
of  all  times,  prior  to  the  general  use  of  the  pronged 
tool.  Dining  in  olden  England  must  have  been  a 
distressingly  sloppy  process,  when  the  rude  feaster 
grabbed  the  choicest  bits  from  dishes  brimming 
with  thick  gravy,  and  the  nicest  feeder,  after  taking 
a  gobbet  of  flesh,  dipped  it  into  the  sauce-bowl 
before  he  carried  the  dripping  morsel  over  the 
table-cloth  to  his  lips.  During  the  prevalence  of 
such  manners,  the  noble  dame  or  damoiselle  was 
commended  for  exemplary  breeding,  who  dipped 
only  the  tips  of  her  fingers  in  the  sauce-dish,  and 
contrived  to  eat  her  dinner  without  letting  frag- 
ments of  meat  fall  from  her  lips  upon  the  table- 
cloth. Chaucer  says  of  Madame  Eglentine,  the  ex- 
emplary Prioress, 

"  At  mete  was  she  wele  ytanghte  witballe ; 
She  lette  no  morsel  from  her  Uppes  falle, 
"Ne  wette  hire  fingeres  with  her  sauce  depe. 
Wei  coulde  she  carie  a  morsel,  and  wel  kepe, 
That  no  drope  ne  fell  upon  hire  brest. 
In  curtesie  was  sette  full  moche  hire  lest^ 
Hire  over-lippe  wiped  she  so  clone, 
That  in  hire  cuppe  was  no  ferthing  sene 
Of  grese,  when  she  dronken  hadde  hire  draught. 
Ful  semelj  after  hire  mete  she  raught" 


200  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

So  long  as  she  did  not  plunge  her  hand  deep  in  the 
gravy,  the  poet  admitted  her  right  to  thrust  her  sop 
in  the  pan,  even  though  she  greased  the  tips  of  her 
fingers  in  doing  so. 

A  better  novelist  than  antiquary,  Alexander 
Dumas  committed  a  prodigious  blunder  in  the 
"  Grand  Dictionnaire  de  Cuisine,"  when  he  asserted 
that  table-cloths  and  napkins  were  unknown  in 
France  much  before  the  13th  century.  "  Lelinge," 
wrote  the  daring  and  indiscreet  Alexandre,  "  sur- 
tout  le  beau  linge,  ne  fit  que  tres  tard  son  appari- 
tion en  France.  La  propret6  est  le  rdsultat,  et  noa 
le  presage,  de  la  civilization.  Nos  belles  dames  du 
XTIP.  et  du  XIV^  siecle,  aux  pieds  desquelles  s'age- 

*  Alexandre  is  less  unfortunate  in  telling  an  old  story  to  illustrate 
a  use  to  which  the  napkin  was  often  put  by  angry  gentlemen  at 
table-quarrels.  "Alors  s'^tablit,"  he  says,  "en  France  un  usage 
singulier,  celui  do  couper  la  nappe  devant  eus  qu'on  voulait  d6fier 
ou  a  qui  on  voulait  faire  un  reprocbe  de  bassesse  ou  de  lachete. 
Charles  VI.,  lo  jour  de  TEpiphauie,  avait  a  table  plusieurs  convives 
illustres,  parmi  lesquels  se  trouvait  Guillaume  de  Hainault,  comte 
d'Ostrevant.  Tout-a-coup  un  h^raut  vint  trancher  la  nappe  devant 
le  comte,  en  lui  disant  qu'un  prince  qui  ne  portait  pas  d'armes 
n'dtait  pas  digne  de  manger  a  la  table  du  roi,  Guillaume  r6pondit 
que,  comme  les  antres  seigneurs,  il  portait  I'^cn,  la  lance,  et  Tepee. 
*  Non,  sire,'  r^pondit  le  hdraut,  *  cela  est  impossible ;  car  votre  oncle  a 
6t6  tu^  par  les  Prisons,  et  jusqu'k  ce  jour  cependant  sa  mort  est 
rest^e  impunie ;  certes,  si  vous  poss6diez  des  armes,  il  y  a  longtemps 
qu'il  serait  veng^.' "  To  cast  a  gauntlet  at  a  man  was  to  declare 
him  an  enemy  to  be  fought:  to  throw  a  napkin  at  him  was  to 
intimate  that  he  was  a  dirty  follow  who  needed  washing. 


t 


TABLE    LIxNTEiV.  201 

nouillferent  les  Galaor,  les  Amadis,  et  les  Lancelot 
du  Lac,  il  faut  bien  avouer,  non-seul^ment  n^avaient 
pas  de  chemise  la  plupart  du  temps,  mais  ne  les 
connaissaient  point.  Les  nappes,  ddja  employees 
du  temps  d'Auguste,  avaient  disparu  et  n'eteridirent 
sur  nos  tables  leur  blanche  surface  que  vers  le 
XIIP.  siecle,  et  encore  seulement  chez  les  princes 

et  chez  les  rois." 

* 

The  Roman  cuisine  necessitated  the  continual  use 
of  napkins.  The  Augustan  dandies  were  fanciful 
about  their  hand-towels,  which  were  often  stolen 
from  their  owners  by  such  parasites  as  Hermogenes 
who,  at  a  banquet  without  napkins,  gratified  his 
cleptomaniacal  propensity  by  running  ofi*  with  the 
table-cloth. 

"  Attulerat  mappara  nemo,  dum  furta  timentur, 
Mantile  e  meiisa  surpuit  Hermogenes. 

Another  stealer  of  napkins  was  the  Asinius  whom 
Catullus  handed  over  to  comical  infamy.  In  "  The 
Last  Days  of  Pompeii,"  Lord  Lytton  called  atten- 
tion to  the  napkins  of  delicate  linen  with  purple 
fringe,  which  Glaucus  provided  for  his  friends,  and 
to  the  ediles  special  napkin,  which  he  drew  forth 
with  the  ostentation  of  a  rich  parvenu. 

The  peoples,  who  adopted  the  Apician  code  after 
the  fall  of  Rome,  were  no  less  particular  in  respect 
to  their  table-Hnen.     Plebeians  were  of  course  con- 


202  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

tent  to  lick  their  fingers  as  well  as  their  platters ; 
but  mediasval  "  society,"  alike  in  its  earlier  period 
and  strictly  feudal  time,  never  grudged  the  cost  of 
clean  board-cloths  and  towels.  The  Anglo-Saxons 
spread  their  tables  with  pure  napery ;  and  from  the 
Conquest  to  the  era  of  the  English  Stuarts,  our 
forefathers  of  the  higher  grades  used  table-linen 
lavishly,  and  made  much  parade  of  washing  before 
and  after  meat.  The  sloppiness  of  their  repasts 
forbade  them  to  do  otherwise.  We  have  already 
seen  how,  in  feudal  England,  the  surnappe  was  put 
over  the  laid  table,  and  how  the  lord  laved  his 
hands  in  assayed  water,  on  the  removal  of  the  sur- 
cloth.  At  the  conclusion  of  the  meal,  the  spoons 
and  dishes  having  been  removed,  the  surnappe 
was  drawn  over  the  soiled  table-cloth,  when  the 
satisfied  feasters  washed  from  their  lips  and  hands 
the  uncleanness  which  they  had  necessarily  con- 
tracted during  the  banquet.  It  was  the  special 
ot&ce  of  the  ewerer  and  his  subordinates  to  provide 
lavers  and  linen  for  this  purpose. 

In  these  times  of  no  forks  and  much  washing  at 
meat,  the  napkin,  as  a  thing  to  be  used  rather  than 
trifled  with,  was  produced  in  a  form  convenient  to 
the  feaster  actually  needing  it.  The  case  was  other- 
wise when  the  fork  had  made  eating  a  pastime  from 
which  a  fairly  careful  feeder  could  retire  without 

m 

wishing  to  cleanse  his  hands.  No  longer  a  necessity, 


FOB  FOLDINa  NAPKINS.  203 

the  napkin  became  a  mere  ornament  and  thing  of 
ceremony ;  and  in  their  desire  to  use  it  for  decora- 
tive eflFect,  the  article  which  was  no  longer  required 
for  positive  cleanliness,  the  Restoration  chefs  dis- 
played curious  ingenuity  in  folding  it  in  new 
ways. 

Charles  the  Second's  favourite  artiste,  Giles  Rose, 
the  chef  who  succeeded  to  Robert  May's  honours  and 
prophetic  mantle,  gave  his  "  oflficers  of  the  mouth" 
minute  instructions  for  folding  dinner  napkins-  in 
twenty- six  dijQTerent  fashions.  On  referring  to  the 
"  Perfect  School  of  Instructions  for  OflBcers  of  the 
Mouth,  by  Giles  Rose,  one  of  the  Master- Cooks  In 
His  Majestie's  Kitchen'*  (1682),  the  reader  may 
learn  how, 

Is  To  frise  a  napkin. 

2.  To  fold  a  napkin  in  bands. 

3.  To  pleat  a  napkin  in  the  form  of  a  cockle-shell 
double. 

4.  To  do  the  same  single. 

5.  To  pleat  or  fold  a  napkin  in  the  form  of  a 
double  melon. 

6.  To  fold  a  napkin  in  the  form  of  a  melon 
single. 

7.  To  fold  a  napkin  in  the  fashion  of  a  cock. 

8.  To  pleat  a  napkin  in  the  form  of  a  hen. 

9.  To  fold  and  pleat  a  napkin  in  the  form  of  a 
hen  and  chickens. 


204  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

10.  To  fold  a  napkin  like  two  pullets. 

11.  To  fold  a  napkin  in  the  form  of  a  pigeon  upon 
her  nest  in  a  basket. 

12.  To  pleat  a  napkin  in  the  form  of  a  partridge. 

13.  To  pleat  a  napkin  in  the  form  of  a  pheasant. 

14.  To  fold  a  napkin  in  the  form  of  two  capons 
in  a  pye. 

15.  To  fold  a  napkin  like  a  hare. 

16.  To  fold  a  napkin  like  two  rabbits. 

17.  To  fold  a  napkin  like  a  suckiug  pig. 

18.  To  fold  a  napkin  like  a  dog  with  a  "  choller" 
about  his  neck. 

19.  To  fold  a  napkin  like  a  pike. 

20.  To  fold  a  napkin  in  the  form  of  a  carp. 

21.  To  fold  a  napkin  like  a  turbot. 

22.  To  fold  a  napkin  like  a  mitre. 

23.  To  fold  a  napkin  like  a  turkey. 

24.  To  fold  a  napkin  like  a  tortoise. 

25.  To  fold  a  napkin  in  the  fashion  of  a  cross, 
like  the  Order  of  the  Holy  Ghost. 

26.  To  make  the  cross  of  Lorraine. 

In  Ben  Jonson's  "  Devil's  an  Ass"  (Act.  V.,  scene 
4),  Meercraft  speaks  of 

"  The  laudable  ase  of  forks, 
Brought  into  custom  here  as  they  are  in  Italy, 
To  the  sparing  of  napkins." 

So  early  was  it  seen  that  the  adoption  of  the  fork 
would  spare  napkins,   by   greatly   diminishing  the 


A    STRANGE    OMISSION.  205 

need  for  them.  And  forks  had  not  been  for  many- 
years  in  use  ere  they  had  the  effect  predicted  by  the 
dramatist.  Napkins  disappeared  from  the  tables  of 
economical  housekeepers,  who,  before  the  introduc- 
tion of  the  fork,  would  have  deemed  them  indis- 
pensable for  decency  and  cleanliness.  And  the  few, 
still  placed  on  more  sumptuous  tables,  showed  by 
their  fantastic  and  complicating  foldings  that  they 
were  exhibited  only  for  ornament.  To  "  undo"  a 
napkin  folded  like  a  turkey  was  to  destroy  a  work 
of  art ;  and  in  Charles  the  Second's  time  the  younpf 
spark  who  was  guilty  of  such  a  demolition  of  a 
beautiful  object,  would  have  offended  his  host, 
whilst  infuriating  his  host's  butler. 

Napkins  wisre  retiring  before  the  victorious  forks, 
when,  in  an  early  year  of  Charles  the  Second's 
actual  reign,  Samuel  Pepys  went  to  the  Guildhall 
banquet  mentioned  in  the  last  chapter.  His  place 
was  at  the  Merchant-strangers'  table,  and,  on  seeing 
it  unprovided  with  napkins,  he  was  disposed  to  im- 
pute the  strange  omission  to  his  entertainer's  nig- 
gardliness and  incivility.  "  At  noon,"  he  wrote  in 
his  Journal,  "I  went  to  Guildhall,  and,  meeting 
with  Mr.  Proby,  Sir  R.  Ford's  son,  and  Lieutenant- 
Colonel  Baron,  a  city  commander,  we  went  up  and 
down  to  see  the  tables,  where,  under  every  salt, 
there  was  a  bill  of  fare,  and  at  the  end  of  the  table 
the  persons  proper  for  the  table.     Many  were  the 


206  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

tables,  but  none  in  the  Hall,  but  the  Mayor's  and 
the  Lords  of  the  Privy  Council,  that  had  napkins  or 
knives,  which  was  very  strange."  A  few  years 
later  young  Mr.  Pepys  would  have  seen  nothing  re- 
markable in  this  distinction  between  the  chief  and 
ordinary  tables.  And  even  in  1663  he  would  have 
been  less  surprised  at  it,  had  he  known  the  town  as 
well  as  he  knew  it  after  a  longer  study  of  its 
humours. 

He  had,  of  course,  entered  the  Hall  with  his  best 
spoon  and  spoon-case  in  his  pocket.  Already  prid- 
ing himself  on  his  modishness,  he  was  doubtless 
provided  with  a  fork,  an  implement  which  every 
velvet- wearing  gallant  by  that  time  carried  to 
private  banquet  or  public  ordinary.  For  the  absence 
of  knife  and  napkin  he  could  have  accounted  readily, 
had  he  been  aware  of  the  change  of  fashion  with 
respect  to  those  articles.  While  napkins  were  fall^ 
ing  into  comparative  disuse,  it  was  becoming  more 
and  more  usual  for  the  "  diner-out"  to  carry  on  his 
person  a  case  fitted  with  a  knife  as  well  as  with  a 
fork  and  spoon.  Sir  Antony  Bateman,  the  Lord 
Mayor,  was  no  mere  citizen  in  high  office.  Belong- 
ing to  a  gentle  family,  that  moved  in  the  brightest 
circles  of  the  town,  he  aflfected  the  newest  fashions, 
and  had  probably  ordered  his  butler  to  set  the  table 
in  West-End  style.  The  chief  servant  may  be  pre- 
sumed to  have  withheld  the  napkins  from  the  in- 


SIE   ANTONYMS   VINDICATION.  207 

ferior  tables  in  obedience  to  some  such  order.  He 
also  forbore  to  lay  knives,  because  he  assumed,  in 
his  politeness,  that  the  gentlemen  of  the  city  would 
bring  their  own  case-knives,  and  would  rather  use 
them  than  such  old-fashioned  weapons  as  were 
stored  in  the  buttery  of  the  Guildhall.  The  liberality 
of  the  fare  provided  for  the  Merchant-strangers  for- 
bids us  to  attribute  the  absence  of  napkins  to  par- 
simony. Fepys  admits  that  each  mess  at  his  table 
had  "  ten  good  dishes,"  with  "  plenty  of  wine  of  all 
sorts."  Nor  is  the  imputation  of  stinginess  sus- 
tained adequately  by  the  fact  that  the  dishes  were 
"  wooden,"  and  the  drinking  vessels  of  earthenware. 
Plate  was  scarce  in  England  so  soon  after  the  Civil 
war,  which  had  brought  thousands  upon  thousands 
of  silver  spoons,  tankards,  and  dishes  to  the  melt- 
ing-pot. And  the  civic  store-rooms  had  no  suj05- 
cient  supply  of  glass  for  several  hundreds  of 
feasters,  when  the  gentlemen  of  the  Inns  of  Court 
were  wont  to  eat  off  wooden  trenchers  and  drink 
from  pots  of  wood  or  earth.  The  cost  of  the  ban- 
quet being  some  £800,  a  sum  equal  to  £7000  of 
modern  money,  Pepys*  insinuations  of  niggardliness 
were  absurdly  groundless. 

The  last  diner-out  to  bring  his  own  knife,  fork, 
and  spoon  to  an  epicure's  table  was  Mr.  Pelham, 
the  record  of  whose  doings  in  the  world  of  fashion 
was  one  of  Lord  Lytton's  earliest  literary  achieve- 


208  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

ments.  Every  reader  of  "  Pelham"  remembers  how 
the  hero  of  that  capital  novel  exhibited  his  case  and 
its  tools  to  the  dehghted  Lord  Guloseton.  *'  It  con- 
tains," he  said,  eloquently,  to  the  noble  hon-vivanty 
"  my  spoon,  my  knife,  my  fork.  Nature  afflicted 
me  with  a  propensity  which,  through  these  ma- 
chines, I  have  endeavoured  to  remedy  by  art.  I 
eat  with  too  great  a  rapidity.  It  is  a  most  un- 
happy failing ;  for  one  often  hurries  over  in  one 
minute  what  ought  to  have  afforded  the  fullest  de- 
light for  the  period  of  jive.  It  is,  indeed,  a  vice 
which  deadens  enjoyment,  as  well  as  abbreviates  it ; 
it  is  a  shameful  waste  of  the  gifts,  and  a  melancholy 
perversion  of  the  bounty  of  Providence.  My  con- 
science tormented  me ;  but  the  habit,  fatally  in- 
dulged in  early  cliildhood,  was  not  easy  to  over- 
come. At  last  I  resolved  to  construct  a  spoon  of 
peculiarly  shallow  dimensions,  a  fork  so  small  that 
it  would  only  raise  a  certain  portion  to  my  mouth, 
and  a  knife  rendered  blunt  and  jagged,  so  that  it 
required  a  proper  and  just  time  to  carve  the  goods 
*  the  gods  provide  me.'  My  lord,  *  the  lovely  Thais 
sits  beside  me'  in  the  form  of  a  bottle  of  Madeira. 
Suffer  me  to  take  wine  with  you." 

Of  course  Lord  Guloseton  accepted  the  challenge 
graciously,  and,  forming  a  favourable  opinion  of  so 
excellent  a  young  gentleman,  was  ready  to  take  his 


HIS   KNIFE   IN   flIS   MOUTH.  209 

advice  on  politics  and  other  matters  less  important 
than  eating  and  drinking. 

Generally  discarded  from  fashionable  tables  at 
the  close  of  the  eighteenth  century,  the  napkin 
was  seldom  used  or  seen  by  the  more  modish  epi- 
cures of  Horace  Walpole's  era.  "  En  Angleterre," 
says  the  author  of  "  L'Art  Culinaire,"  **  tout  le 
monde  est  rentre  a  trois  heures,  et  Ton  sert  le  diner 
chez  le  negociant  et  le  bourgeois;  car  chez  les 
grands  on  ne  dine  qu'^  quatre  heures.  Une  nappe 
qui  descend  jusqu'a  terre  couvre  la  table ;  il  n'y  a 
point  de  serviettes.  Ce  qui  forme  le  convert  est 
ordinairement  une  fourchette  ^  manche  rond  aveo 
deux  points  d'acier,  et  nn  couteau  dontlalame,  large 
et  arrondie,  pent,  dans  le  besoin,  remplacer  la 
cuillere ;  on  en  change  k  chaque  service.  An  dessert 
on  enleve  la  nappe,  et  Ton  sert  a  chacun  un  plus 
petit  couvert,  une  jale  de  verre  pour  se  laver  les 
mains,  et  une  serviette  carr^e,  extremement  petite. 
Aprfes  le  dessert,  qui  n'est  jamais  long,  vient  le  boire, 
que  les  Anglais  pr^f(Srent  k  tout,  et  les  dames  dis- 
paraissent."  Whence  it  appears  that  in  George  the 
Third's  time  the  dessert  doily  was  regarded  as  the 
elegant  and  sufficient  substitute  for  the  old  table- 
towel,  and  that  the  handler  of  a  two-pronged  steel 
fork  might  use  his  knife  as  a  spoon.  Four-pronged 
silver  forks  had  come  into  general  use  before  the 

VOL.  £.  p 


210  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

epicure  was  forbidden  to   put  his   knife   into  his 
mouth. 

In  these  later  years  of  universal  luxury  the  full- 
sized  white  napkin  is  seen  on  every  table,  set  for 
English  folk  who  take  their  meals  comfortably. 
Whether  it  should  be  rated  more  highly  as  an  adorn- 
ment, or  a  requisite  for  cleanliness,  is  a  question 
that  each  reader  may  decide  for  himself.  No  critic 
of  the  festal  board  will  underrate  its  decorative  im- 
portance. On  the  other  hand,  everyone  will  admit 
that,  though  less  needful  than  in  ancient  time,  it  is 
a  convenient  and  useful  article  of  table  furniture. 
The  author  of  "  Autres  Contenances  de  Table"  ad- 
monishes the  apprentice  in  good  breeding  not  to 
twist  his  dinner  napkin  into  a  cord. 

**  De  ta  touaille  ne  fais  corde 
HonneBtet^  ne  s'y  accorde." 

Nervous  and  fidgetty  gentlemen  may  still  be 
found  to  whom  this  counsel  should  be  repeated. 
These  torturers  of  the  napkin,  when  they  have  no 
occasion  to  use,  should  refrain  from  abusing  it,  so 
that  it  becomes  as  unsightly  as  a  crumpled  news- 
paper or  a  piece  of  hay-rope. 


211 


[ 


CHAPTER  XII. 

HORN,  BELL,  AKD  GONG. 

**  Lliomme  repnt  de  son  estomac,  en  naissant,  I'ordre  de  manger 
an  moins  trois  fois  par  jonr,  pour  r^parer  lea  forces  que  Ini  enl^vent 
le  travail  et^  plus  soavent  encore,  la  paresse."— Ftie  Alexandre 

DXJSIAS'S  "  DlCTIONN AIBB  DB  OUISINB." 

"  Braikfastis  for  my  lorde  and  my  ladye.  Fnrst  a  loof  of  brede  in 
trenchers,  two  manchets,  one  qnart  of  here,  a  quart  of  wine,  half  a 
chjne  of  muton,  ells  a  chyne  of  beif  boyled." — Vide  "  Northumbbb- 
LAND  Household  Book,"  (1512.) 

"  When  fonre  houres  be  past  after  breakfast,  a  man  may  safely 
take  his  dinner,  and  the  most  oonvenient  time  for  dinner  is  about 
eleven  of  the  clocke  before  noone.  .  .  .  About  foure  houres,  or  size 
after  we  have  dined,  the  time  convenient  for  supper." — Vide  Thomas 
Cogan's  "Haven  op  Health." 

**  Que  le  mouvement  de  consommation  soit  mod^r^,  le  diner  ^tant 
la  demi^re  affaire  de  la  joum^;  et  que  les  convives  se  tiennent 
comme  des  voyageurs  qui  doivent  arriver  ensemble  au  mSme  but." — 
Vide  Bbillat-Savarin's  "  Physiolooib  du  GtouT." 

RECOGNISING  three  kinds  of  appetite,  and  three 
kinds  of  gourmandise,  Alexandre  Dumas 
insists  that  muTi  is  instructed  by  nature  to  satisfy 
his  craving  for  food  at  least  three  times  a  day. 

The  fiercest  desire  for  food  is  the  hunger  of  famine, 
which,  to  appease  its  pangs,  devours  raw  flesh  as 
greedily  and  thankfully  as  a '  roast  pheasant  or 
pullet.  Such  hunger  is  never  experienced  by  the 
fortunate  epicure,  whose    sharpest  gust  proceeds 

p  2 


212  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

from  tbe  gentle  stimulus  of  the  soup,  oysters,  or 
dainty  jpZaf,  which  rouses  his  gastronomic  powers  at 
the  opening  of  a  banquet.     The  finest  of  the  three 
appetites  is  the  transient  revival  of  desire,  which 
raises  the  scientific  grottrme^  above  the  sensations  of 
vulgar  felicity  when  he  regards  an  exquisite  and 
specially-beloved  delicacy   at  the   close  of  a   long 
repast.     "  Give  me  money  to  buy  a  loaf  of  bread, 
for  I  am  very   hungry,"  the  street-beggar  implored 
of  the  Prince  Kegent.     "  Lucky  fellow,"  returned 
the  Prince.     "  How  many  years  have  passed  since 
I  had  the  delight  of  a  good  appetite !"     But  the 
greatest  gentleman  and  sensualist  of  modern  Eng- 
land  was   a   bon-vivant  of  the   grosser  sort.      All 
great  authorities   on    fine  eating  concur  with   the 
French  novelist  in  the  opinion  that  hunger  para- 
lyses the  palate.     The  epicure  should  never  bring 
an  appetite  to  his  table.     Before  satisfying  it  with 
food,  he  should  create  it  by  eating.    The  soup  should 
call  it  into  existence,  the  fish  should  quicken  it,  the 
entrees  should  raise  it  to  the  fulness  of  vigour,  and, 
when  it  has  been  tranquilly  allayed  with  substantial 
viands,  the  concluding  plat  should  enable  it  to  smile 
sportively  as  it  dies  away.  ( 

Just  as  there  are  three  appetites,  Dumas  insists  i 

that  there  are  three  kinds  of  gourmandise.  The 
first  is  the  vehement  sensuality,  which  becomes 
gluttony  in  its  most  repulsive  manifestations,  and 


^    i. 


I 


THREE    KINDS    OP    GOURMANDISE.  213 

which  theologians  have  placed  amongst  the  seven 
deadly  sins.     It  was  the  gourmandise  of  Vitellius. 
The   second   is    the    polite   gourmandise^   sung   by 
Horace  and  glorified  by  Lucullus,  which  in  these 
later  times  has  been  invested  with  mysteries,  and 
raised  to  religious  rank  by  the  genius  and  labours 
of  Grimod  de  la  Reyni^re  and  Brillat-Savarin.     In- 
cluding/riaTz^dise,   the  love  of  tit-bits,  this  highest 
gastrolatry  enlarges  the  affections,    stimulates  the 
intellect,  and  inspires  our  race  with  lofty  ambitions. 
In  every  respect  dissimilar  to  this  beneficent  pas- 
sion for  delicate  eating,  the  third  gourmandise  is 
even  more  revolting  than  the  first.  It  is  the  morbid, 
insatiable,  and  incessant  craving  for   heavy  food, 
which  is  fully  despribed,  with  stories  too  marvellouia 
for  credence,  in  Mason  Good's  "  Study  of  Medicine." 
It  attacked  Brutus  after  the  death  of  Caesar ;  and 
M.  Dumas  has  no  doubt  that  Esau  suffered  from  it 
when  he  sold  his  birthright  for  a  mess  of  pottage. 
"  Ce  fut  sans  doute,"  says  Alexandre,  "  dans  un 
acces    de    cette  fatale    maladie  qu'Esaii  vendit    a 
Jacob  son   droit   d'ainesse   pour   un   plat   de   len- 
tilles." 

In  the  number  of  their  meals,  and  also  in  their 
hours  for  taking  them,  the  practice  of  the  old 
English  differed  much  less  from  modern  usage  than 
is  ordinarily  supposed.  The  difference  consists 
chiefly  in  the  relinquishment  of  a  term,  the  shifting 


214         A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

of  another,  and  the  substitution  of  a  third.  When 
regard  is  had  to  the  times  at  which  our  ancestors 
rose  from,  and  went  to,  bed,  the  difference  becomes 
so  slight  that  it  may  be  said  to  disappear  alto- 
gether. 

Like  Alexandre  Dumas,  our  forefathers  were  gener- 
ally of  opinion  that  nature,  by  the  promptings  of  the 
stomach,  ordered  man  to  take  food  three  times  a-day. 
They  held  that  on  rising  from  his  couch  he  required 
a  slight  "  snack,"  to  break  the  fast  which  had  lasted 
throughout  the  hours  of  sleep ;  that  he  needed  a 
substantial  banquet  some  four  hours  after  his  break- 
fast ;  and  that  it  was  good  for  him  to  have  a  second 
sound  repast  some  five  or  six  hours  after  the  first 
grand  meal.  Rising  at  about  six  o*clock,  they 
breakfasted  after  making  the  toilet,  dined  at  ten  or 
eleven  o'clock,  and  supped  at  five  in  the  afternoon. 
Acting  on  the  same  rule,  now  that  we  rise  later  from 
bed,  we  breakfast  at  nine,  lunch  some  four  hours 
later,  and  dine  about  six  hours  after  luncheon.  The 
hour  of  leaving  bed  postpones  all  the  daily  meals  in 
the  "  society,"  which  breakfasts  at  ten,  lunches  at 
two  or  three,  and  dines  at  eight  or  nine.  In  this 
matter  the  moderns  have  done  little  more  than  re- 
linquish the  word  "  supper,"  shift  to  the  third  meal 
the  name  which  our  forefathers  applied  to  the 
second,  and,  in  place  of  the  term  taken  from  it, 
give  to  the  second  repast  the  inexpressive  name  of 


NUNTIONS  AKD   EEAE-SUPPEES.  215 

luncheon.  In  addition  to  their  three  daily  repasts, 
the  more  luxurious  and  indulgent  of  the  old  English 
had  intermediate  "  snacks  "  called  "  nuntions " 
(afterwards  "  luncheons"),  and  "rear-suppers" — the 
former  coming  between  breakfast  and  dinner,  and 
the  latter  following  supper  by  three  or  four  hours. 
Hence  it  appears  that  the  modern  dinner  is  the  old 
English  supper,  and  that  the  late  repast,  still  served 
under  the  name  of  supper  at  routs  shortly  after 
midnight,  is,  in  fact,  the  rear-supper  of  feudal 
society. 

In  the  social  history  of  every  people,  luxury  is 
seen  to  ebb  and  flow,  fall  and  rise,  like  a  tidal  river. 
Indulgence  begets  a  disposition  for  temperance,  or 
even  asceticism;  and  then  severe  moderation  is 
followed  by  a  reaction  towards  excess.  This  must 
be  borne  in  mind.  Whilst  the  Old  English  were 
usually  in  favour  of  three  meals  a  day,  there  were 
times  when  the  more  temperate  restrained  them- 
selves to  two  meals  or  even  to  one  meal ;  and  also 
times  when  the  indulgent  permitted  themselves  to 
enjoy  four,  five,  or  even  six  daily  repasts.  The 
Danes,  under  Canute  the  Hardy,  are  reported  to 
have  been  eaters  of  five  or  six  meals  a  day.  Alike 
remarkable  for  general  luxuriousness  and  occasional 
abstinence,  the  Normans,  alternately  denouncing 
and  commending  rear-suppers,  were  by  turns  ab- 
stainers and  gourmandizers. 


216  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

It  is  remarkable  that  two  of  our  best  Elizabethan 
authorities  on  the  table  customs  of  their  time  deliver 
conflicting  evidence  concerning  the  meals  of  our 
ancestors  towards  the  close  of  the  sixteenth  century. 
Whilst  William  Harrison  bears  witness  that  the 
English  of  his  time  were  content  with  "  dinner  and 
supper  onelie,"  Thomas  Cogan,  writing  about  the 
same  time,  speaks  precisely  of  "  breakefast,  dinner, 
and  supper"  as  the  three  regular  daily  meals  of 
every  well-kept  Englishman.  This  discrepancy  is 
doubtless  due  to  the  fact  that  though  breakfast  was 
the  common  indulgence  of  prosperous  folk  in  Queen 
Elizabeth's  days,  it  was  not  universally  taken  by  all 
kinds  of  people.  Hence,  whilst  Cogan,  writing 
culinary  notes  for  educated  people,  might  fairly  treat 
of  breakfast  as  a  meal  of  which  all  his  readers  par- 
took, William  Harrison,  writing  a  survey  of  the 
general  state  of  the  people,  might  decline  to  notice 
as  a  regular  repast  what  was  only  the  superfluous 
daily  regalement  of  the  richer  folk. 

In  the  fifteenth  century,  breakfast  was  no  set 
meal  for  inferior  people.  Edward  the  Fourth's  ex- 
emplary mother  was  a  breakfast-eater.  "  She 
taketh  somethinge  to  recreate  nature,"  says  her 
biographer,  "and  so  goeth  to  the  chappell,  hearing 
divine  service  and  two  lowe  masses ;  from  thence  to 
dynner."  But  it  was  only  to  the  chief  oflficers  of 
her  household  that  she  allowed  the  same  indulgence. 


GATES   FOR   A   COUNTKSS.  217 

"  Breakfastes,"  the  chronicler  continues,  "  be  there 
none,  savinge  onely  the  head  offycers  when  they  be 
present;  to  the  ladyes  and  gentlewomen;  to  the 
deans  and  to  the  chappell ;  to  the  almoner ;  to  the 
gentlemen-ushers  ;  to  the  cofferer ;  to  the  clerks  of 
the  kytchin,  and  to  the  marshal." 

Compassionating  the  state  of  our  grandfathers, 
whose  nightly  indulgence  in  port  and  punch  must 
have  been  followed  by  excruciating  headaches  in  the 
morning,  Mr.  Thackeray  asked  pitifully  and  won- 
deringly  what  on  earth  they  did  for  the  mitigation 
of  their  torture,  in  the  absence  of  soda  water.  Joe 
Sedley  cooled  his  burning  throat  with  mild  beer ; 
but  the  draught,  which  may  have  assuaged  his 
heartburn,  can  scarcely  have  tranquillized  his  nerves, 
or  been  an  anodyne  to  his  throbbing  head. 

In  these  days  of  hot  tea  and  deliciously  aromatic 
coffee,  the  modern  epicure  is  apt  to  wonder  how  our 
ancestors  contrived  to  breakfast  without  either  of 
the  two  fragrant  and  cheering  drinks.  His  concern 
for  their  miserable  condition  will  not  be  lessened  by 
the  assurance  that,  in  the  absence  of  tea  and  coffee, 
they  drank  beer  and  ale.  Bread,  salt  fish,  larded 
herrings,  and  sprats,  washed  down  with  beer  and 
wine  (on  fish  days),  and  bread,  and  mutton,  or 
chine  of  boiled  beef,  diluted  with  the  same  drinks 
(on  flesh  days),  were  the  regular  breakfasts  of  the 
Earl  and  Countess  of  Northumberland,  at  the  begia- 


> 


218  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

ning  of  Henry  the  Eiglitli's  reign.  The  Earl's 
children  breakfasted  on  like  fare,  only  they  had  no 
Tvine  in  addition  to  their  beer.  As  for  the  Countess's 
niaids  of  honour,  their  caterer  wrote  thus  : — "  Break- 
fastys  for  my  lady's  gentylworaen.  Item,  a  loif  of 
houshold  bred,  a  pottel  of  beire,  and  three  mutton 
bonys  boyled,  or  ells  a  pece  of  bief  boyled."  How 
would  any  young  gentlewoman  of  the  present 
century  like  to  exchange  for  such  pot-house  regale- 
ment her  delicate  breakfast  picked  from  a  table 
furnished  with  new  laid  eggs,  lobster  rissoles, 
cutlets  in  sharp  sauce,  game-pie,  dainty  rolls,  a 
teapot  full  of  choicest  infusion,  and  a  jug  of  scald- 
ing hot  milk  ready  to  be  mixed  with  the  black, 
fragrant  decoction  of  coflfee  ? 

In  the  "  Merry  Wives  of  Windsor"  (Act  iii.,  s.  3), 
Page  says : — "  I  do  invite  you  to-morrow  morning 
to  my  house  to  breakfast;  after,  we'll  go  a  birding 
together  :  I  have  a  fine  hawk  for  the  bush.  Shall 
it  'be  so  ?"  The  frequency  of  Shakespeare's  allu- 
sions to  breakfast  demonstrates  that  the  repast  was 
common  in  Elizabethan  England.  But  in  the  seven- 
teenth century  breakfasts  were  seldom  so  substan- 
tial as  those  of  the  "  Northumberland  Household 
Book."  Towards  the  close  of  Elizabeth's  reign, 
Thomas  Cogan  urged  "  all  those  that  have  a  care 
for  health"  to  make  light  breakfasts.  "  For  break- 
fast, I  thinke,"  he  says,  in  *  The  Haven  of  Health,' 


THE   EARLY   SNAOK.  219 

"  those  meates  be  moat  convenient,  especially  for 
students,  which  be  of  light  digestion,  as  milke, 
butter,  egs,  and  such  like."  At  the  same  time, 
William  Harrison  maintained  that  the  early  snack 
was  only  the  affair  of  the  **  young  hongrie  stomach 
that  cannot  fast  till  dinner-time."  That  typical 
gentleman  of  Caroline  England,  the  Duke  of  New- 
castle, made  his  breakfast  habitually  on  a  manchet 
of  fine  bread  and  a  glass  of  sack ;  and  to  the  close 
of  the  seventeenth  century  the  ordinary  breakfast  of 
a  not  indulgent  Englishman  was  a  slice  of  bread 
and  a  glass  of  ale,  beer,  or  dry  wine.  Husbandmen 
took  the  early  snack  as  they  walked  round  their 
fields,  or  to  their  first  spell  of  labour.  In  the  towns 
and  villages  it  was  general  for  men  of  all  social 
grades,  fi'om  the  squire  to  the  petty  tradesman,  to 
get  it  at  the  nearest  ale-house.  The  "morning 
draught"  at  the  inn  was,  in  fact,  the  ordinary  break- 
fast of  the  majority  of  Englishmen  from  the  days  of 
bluff  Henry,  to  the  time  when  the  taste  for  tea  put 
an  end  to  the  early  meetings  at  the  public  house, 
and  caused  our  great  grandfathers  to  breakfast 
leisurely  at  their  own  tables  rather  than  in  a  crowded 
bar-parlour.  Unless  they  bear  this  fact  in  mind, 
readers  of  old  biographies  are  apt  to  attribute  tavern 
haunting  propensities  to  sober  and  discreet  gentle- 
men who,  though  they  always  opened  the  day  with 


220  A  BOOK  ABOOT  THE  TABLE. 

drink  and  gossip  at  an  ale-house,  were  no  wastrels 
or  ill-livers. 

The  old  names  for  the  two  chief  meals  of  the  day 
deserve  attention.  Supper,  the  repast  at  which 
men  took  soup,  commemorates  the  importance  of 
the  part  played  by  pottages  and  porridges  in  the 
cuisine  of  the  Old  English.  Several  suggestions 
have  been  made  for  a  derivation  for  "  dinner." 
Dr.  Doran,  in  his  pleasant  "  Table  Traits,"  insists 
that  the  word  is  an  abbreviation  of  "  dixieme  heure," 
ten  o'clock,  the  usual  hour  for  breakfast  in  Norman 
England.  Whilst  this  explanation  appears  fanciful, 
and  certainly  imposes  much  work  on  the  abbre- 
viating process,  it  is  (as  the  Doctor  himself  observes) 
irreconcileable  with  the  fact  that  nine  was  a  common 
dinner  hour  with  England's  French  nobility.  A 
better  suggestion  of  the  same  kind  is  that  the 
familiar  word  is  a  contraction  of  dejeuner^  the 
word  still  applied  in  France,  not  to  the  "early 
snack"  (the  cafe-au-lait  and  roll),  but  to  the  earlier 
of  two  chief  meals.  At  one  time  the  classical 
pedants  insisted  that  "  dinner"  came  from  the  Greek 
"  deipnon.^^  But  on  reviewing  all  the  derivations  of 
the  familiar  term,  provided  by  the  ingenuity  of  ety- 
mologists and  antiquaries,  the  readers  of  this  page 
will  be  disposed  to  think  the  first  sound  meal  of  the 
day,  eaten  deliberately  when  workers  in  olden  time 
ceased  from  their  first  spell  of  day's  labour,  gained 


NUNOHrONS   AND   LUNCHEONS.  221 

its  original  name  from  the  old  French  disner  to  cease 
from  work.  On  this  point  Richardson  says,  "  Dlne^ 
Fr.  Disner;  It.  Desinare.  Perhaps,  as  suggested 
by  Minshew,  from  the  Lat.  Desinere^  i.e.,  cessare,  a 
cessatione  ab  opera,  to  cease,  the  time  of  ceasing  from 
labour."  Etymologists  have  in  like  manner  racked 
their  brains  to  find  the  derivation  of  the  more 
modern  word  luncheon^  or,  as  the  Elizabethan  writers 
usually  spelt  it,  nunchion.  Whilst  some  regard  the 
term  as  coming  from  longus  (lonja),  and  having 
references  to  long  slices  of  cake ;  others  would  have 
us  think  that  it  is  akin  to  nooning,  and  points  to  the 
proper  hour  for  the  meal  of  those  who  shun  the  full 
heat  and  shining  sun  of  noon.  Perhaps  "moon- 
shine" is  the  best  comment  on  such  talk  about 
"  noon-shun"  and  "  noon-shine." 

The  practice  of  Old  England  in  respect  to  hours 
for  mealing  accorded  with  the  practice  of  the  other 
countries  of  feudal  Europe;  To  avoid  mistakes,  the 
reader  should  bear  in  mind  the  old  rule,  which 
required  dinner  to  be  served  for  "quality"  some 
four  hours  after  the  hour  of  leaving  bed.  The 
apparent  disagreements  of  old  chroniclers  on  an 
interesting  subject  disappear,  when  it  is  remembered 
that  the  time  of  quitting  the  couch  varied  with  the 
seasons,  and  that  the  rule  required  the  meal  to  be 
somewhat  earlier  in  the  summer  than  the  winter. 
Rising  later  in  the  cold  than  in  the  warm  months. 


222         A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

the  Anglo-Norman  gentry  dined  at  nine  in  summer 
and  ten  in  winter.  It  was  the  same  in  the  Eliza- 
bethan period,  people  diniog  an  hour  earlier  or  later 
as  the  temperature  induced  them  to  rise  early  or  lie 
late. 

Alike  in  the  Western  and  Eastern  worlds,  ifc  was 
formerly  a  point  of  honour  and  modish ness  with 
great  folk  to  dine  before  their  social  inferiors. 
When  the  Khan  of  Tartary  had  ^Ued  himself  with 
mare's  milk  and  horse-flesh,  a  herald  used  to  pro- 
claim daily  that,  "  the  omnipotent  Khan  having 
dined,  all  other  potentates,  princes,  aiid  great  men 
of  the  earth  might  go  to  dinner."  The  great  men 
having  said  grace  after  meat,  the  rabble  might 
satisfy  the  cravings  of  hunger.  On  being  asked 
what  was  the  best  hour  for  dining,  Diogenes,  never 
free  from  idlers  bothering  him  with  foolish  ques- 
tions, answered  that  a  rich  man  should  suit  his 
pleasure,  and  a  poor  one  seize  his  opportunity.  In 
feudal  England,  whilst  it  pleased  the  nobiUty  to  dine 
as  soon  as  they  were  hungry,  gentle  retainers  found 
their  earliest  opportunity  of  dining  when  they  had 
waited  at  table  on  their  employers.  Too  modest  to 
imitate  lords  and  ladies,  the  merchants  and  traders 
of  Elizabethan  London  took  their  meals  at  the  feed- 
ing hours  of  courtly  servitors.  "With  us,**  says 
William  Harrison,  "  the  nobilitie,  gen  trie,  and 
students  doo    ordinarilie  go  to  dinner  at  eleven 


ELIZABETHAN   SUPPERS.  223 

before  noone,  and  to  supper  at  five,  or  between  five 
and  sis  at  afternoone.  The  merchants  dine  and  sup 
seldome  before  twelve  at  noone  and  six  at  night, 
especiallie  in  London.  The  husbandmen  dine  also 
at  high  noone,  as  they  call  it,  and  sup  at  seven  or 
eight;  but  out  of  tearme  in  our  universities  the 
scholers  dine  at  ten.  As  for  the  poorest  sort,  they 
generallie  dine  and  sup  when  they  may,  so  that  to 
talke  of  their  order  of  repast,  ifc  were  but  a  needlesse 
matter."  Cogan  says,  "But  the  usual  time  for 
dinner  in  the  universities  is  eleven,  or  elsewhere 
about  noone."  The  same  author  puts  the  time  for 
supper  at  six  hours  after  dinner,  "which  in  the 
universities  is  about  five  of  the  clocke  in  tlie  after- 
noone." And  he  adds,  "  But  here  ariseth  a  great 
question,  whether  a  man  should  eat  more  at  dinner 
than  at  supper.  Learned  doctors  are  divided  on 
this  subject."  Oogan  was  of  opinion  that,  though 
the  strong  might  take  heavy  suppers  witli  impunity 
and  even  with  profit,  the  delicate  should  8up  lightly. 
The  Elizabethan  proverb,  "  After  dinner  rest  awhile, 
after  supper  walk  a  mile,"  shows  that  our  ancestors 
did  not  go  to  bed  immediately  after  the  second 
satisfying  meal. 

In  the  seventeenth  and  eighteenth  centuries  the 
dinner  hour  was  gradually  made  later  and  later, 
until  the  meal  called  dinner  was  eaten  at  the  Eliza- 
bethan supper  hour.    In  the  same  way  supper  was 


224  A    BOOK   ABOUT  THE   TABLE, 

postponed  to  the  hour  of  the  old  rear-supper ;  and, 
dinner  having  been  thus  pushed  off  to  the  later  part 
of  the  afternoon,  the  necessity  arose  for  substantial 
luncheons.     In  the  earlier  half  of  George  the  Third's 
reign  midday  dinners  were  still  permissible  in  good 
society,  but  three  o'clock  was  a  modish,  and  four 
the  highly  fashionable  hour  for  dining.     A  French 
writer  of  the  First  Empire  gives  four  o'clock  as  the 
fashionable  hour  for  dinners  in  London.     The  great 
Napoleon's   chancellor,   and   political    dispenser  of 
hospitality,  had  his  dinners  served  at  half- past  five, 
and  never  failed  to  upbraid  the  guest  who  was  five 
minutes  after  time.     Five  or  half-past  five  was  late 
enough  to  please  Grimod  de  la  Reynifere,  who  con- 
curred with  Brillat-Savarin  in  holding  that  dinner 
should  be  so  timed  that  the  satisfied  feaster,  on 
leaving  the  table,  should  be  ready  for  bed.     By  the 
close  of  the  Farmer  King's  time,  five  was  the  usual 
dinner  hour  of  great  people  in  England.     Dr.  Kit- 
chiner,  the  famous  medical  epicure  and  author  of 
the  "  Cook's  Oracle,"  who  died  in  1827,  was  to  the 
last  served  with  dinner  at  that  hour ;  though  before 
he  retired  for  ever  from  his  cosy  house  in  Warren 
Street  (43),  Fitzroy  Square,  six  was  the  dinner  hour 
of  Mayfair.     In  his  "  Apician  Morsels"  (1829),  Dick 
Humelberguis  Secundus  names  six  o'clock  as  the 
time  for  dinner  in  good  society,  both  in  town  and 
country. 


PUNCTUALITY.  225 

But  whatever  the  hour  for  dinner,  all  authorities 
agree  that  it  should  be  observed  scrupulously 
alike  by  host,  cook,  and  guests.  Brillat-Savarin 
declares  of  all  qualities  requisite  in  a  cook  exactitude 
is  the  most  indispensable.  The  chef,  exact  in  all 
his  operations,  should  be  especially  so  in  respect  to 
time.  To  ensure  this  accuracy,  Kitchiner  insisted 
that  every  dining-room  should  be  furnished  with  a 
clock,  that  kept  time  with  another  good  clock  tick- 
ing over  the  fire-place  of  the  kitchen.  But  with  all 
his  care  for  punctuality,  the  Doctor  declared  that 
dinner  had  better  be  a  few  minutes  late  than  that  a 
dish  should  be  seWed  underdone,  or,  even  worse, 
overdone.  "  The  first  consideration,'*  he  observes, 
"  must  still  be  that  the  dinner  *  be  well  done,  when 
'tis  done.'  It  is  a  common  fault  with  cooks,  who 
are  over  anxious  about  time,  to  over-dress  every- 
thing. The  guests  had  better  wait  than  the  dinner. 
A  little  delay  will  improve  their  appetite ;  but  if  the 
dinner  waits  for  the  guests,  it  will  deteriorate  every 
minute."  In  fact,  the  punctuality  of  guests  was 
chiefly  desirable,  in  order  that  the  dinner  should 
not  suffer  from  being  "  kept  back,"  when  ready  to 
be  served. 

With  the  clear  common  sense,  never  wanting  in 
intelligent  voluptuaries,  Brillat-Savarin  maintained 
that  for  a  host  "  to  wait  too  long  for  a  tardy  guest 
was  to  J)e  failing  in  proper  respect  for  those  who 

VOL.  I.  Q 


226  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

are  present."     A  fine  epicure,  as  well  as  a  greafc 
lawyer,  Lord  Lyndhurst  was  of  the  same  opinion. 
He  had  no  mercy  for  man  or  woman  who  had  so 
little  consideration  for  others  as  to  trifle   with   a 
chef's  reputation,    and   the  natural  cravings  of   a 
fasting  company  by  want  of  punctuality.     During 
his  third  tenure  of  the  Seals,  it  was  the  affectation 
of  "  the  town"  to  be  late  for  dinner.     In  his  deter- 
mination that  "  the  fashion"  should  not  interfere 
with  his  comfort  and  the  happiness  of  his  more  sen- 
sible friends,  the  Chancellor  ordered  his  porter  to 
bar  the  hall  door   when  five  minutes  had  passed 
over  the  appointed  dinner  hour,  and  not  to  open  it 
again  for  any  purpose  whatever  till  dinner  was  at 
an  end.     The  order  was  obeyed  implicitly  without 
respect  to  persons ;  and  a  few  great  people  having 
been  thereby  rightly  punished  for  their  little  foolish- 
ness,  gentlemen,    who  could  not  be  punctual   at 
any  other  house  in  town,  soon  showed  themselves 
precisely  attentive  to  the  most  important  require- 
ment of  the  Lord  Chancellor's  invitations. 

To  ensure  proper  punctuality  in  the  members  of 
his  household,  and  in  guests  tarrying  under  his 
roof,  the  prudent  chief  of  an  establishment  never 
fails  to  give  due  warning  of  the  approach  and 
arrival  of  the  dinner-hour.  To  effect  this  he  has 
the  choice  of  three  instruments,  the  horn,  the  bell, 
and  the  gong.     For  the  gong  we  are  indebted  to 


BINGSION   AND   HORNING.  227 

the  nabobs  who  a  century  or  more  since  used  to 
return  from  eastern  lands  with   vast  wealth,    and 
tempers  too  irritable  to  endure  any  disrespect  for 
their  gastronomic  needs.     The  old-fashioned  nabob 
who    swore    incessantly,    and    talked    mysterious 
gibberish  with  a  swarthy  valet,  kept  curricles  by  the 
score,  and  on  dying  of  liver-disease  sometimes  left 
his  money  to  the  heroine  of  the  last  new  novel,  is 
no  longer  with   us.     He   has   been  replaced  by  a 
much   less    gorgeous    and   choleric    Anglo-Indian, 
who  subsists   on  a  moderate  pension,  and  seldom 
leaves    much   wealth    to    his    children.      But   his 
gong    and    chutnee    are    still    with    us,    to    stun 
our   ears   on    the    approach,    and    to    warm    our 
stomachs  during  the  progress,  of  dinner.     For   a 
century  before  the  introduction  of  the  gong,   the 
bell  was  the  only  instrument  used  for  summoning 
the  hungry  to  dinner.     But  in  more  distant  time 
the  ecclesiastical  tintinnabulum  was  rarely  used  for 
so  profane  a  purpose.      Instead  of  heralding  the 
advent  of  meals  with  "  ringsion,"  as  Jeremy  Ben- 
tham  used  to  term  the  music  of  a  ringing  bell,  the 
feudal  English,    like   their   contemporaries   of  the 
Continent,  gathered  feasters  to  the  smoking  board 
with  a  concert  of  trumpets  and  drums,    or  with 
blasts  from  a  single  horn.     The  music  of  hunts- 
men running  in  upon  their  quarry,  was  the  music 
which  declared   the   venison  and   wild-boar  ready 

Q  2 


228  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

for  the  trenchers.  BIowd  to  announce  the  coming 
of  dinner  and  supper,  the  horn  was  also  wound  to 
celebrate  the  virtue  of  particular  dishes.  The 
nobler  creatures  of  the  chase  were  seldom  brought 
to  table  without  notes  from  the  trumpet.  The 
same  musical  honours  were  also  accorded  to  the 
grander  birds  and  fishes — the  peacock  and  swan, 
the  sturgeon  and  turbot,  when  served  in  their 
entirety,  being  usually  introduced  with  flourishes 
from  the  musicians  in  attendance.  "Au  XVIP 
sifecle,"  says  Alexandre,  Dumas,  mentioning  a  usage 
of  several  earlier  centuries,  as  well  as  the  seven- 
teenth age,  "  c'est-k-dire  k  Vepoque  oil  Ton  dinait 
h.  midi,  le  cor,  dans  les  grandes  maisons,  annon- 
9ait  le  moment  du  diner.  De  Ik  une  locution 
perdue ;  on  disait,  *  Comez  le  diner.'  " 

".  Cornet  the  dinner,"  was  the  feudal  equivalent 
of  the  modern  and  more  familiar  phrase,  "ring  for 
dinner."  And  in  days  when  inferior  people  ate 
little  meat  in  the  winter  months  save  salted  beef, 
the  more  usual  form  of  the  order  was  "  comez  le 
boBuf,"  or  **  corn  the  beef"  Hence  the  viand, 
which  during  the  long  winters  occasioned  so  much 
trouble  to  the  sore  gums  of  menials  sufibring  from 
the  scurvy,  was  called  "  corn-beef,"  i.e.,  the  only 
beef  that  for  months  together  was  trumpeted  to 
table.  Richardson  errs  egregiously  when  he  in- 
sists that    corned  beef  derived    its   distinguishing 


DUTY  TO   one's   GUESTS.  229 

epithet  from  the  grains  or  corns  of  salt  with  which 
it  was  pickled.  Corned  beef  is  trumpeted  beef, 
or,  as  we  should  now-a-days  say,  dinner-bell  beef. 
Though  the  university  was  rich  in  bells  that  might 
have  called  the  hungry,  the  dinner-horn  was 
blown  daily  in  several  of  the  halls  and  colleges  of 
Lavdian  Oxford.  To  this  day  the  lawyers  of  the 
Miadle  Temple  are  "horned  in"  to  dinner. 
Apropos  of  these  notes  of  horn-music,  it  may  be 
remarked  that  before  they  adopted  the  louder  and 
more  effective  bell,  the  directors  of  our  earliest 
railways — following  the  practice  of  the  coaches — 
summoned  the  passengers  to  their  trains  by  the 
trumpet. 

If  it  is  bad  for  guests  to  be  late,  it  is  far  worse 
for  a  host  to  delay  his  appearance  beyond  the  ap- 
pointed hour.  In  the  latter  case  the  culprit's 
remissness  inflicts  embarrassment,  and  possibly 
suffering,  on  an  entire  assembly  of  persons,  for 
whose  pleasure  he  is  bound  by  honour  to  be  solici- 
tous, so  long  as  they  are  under  his  roof.  If  the 
tardy  guest  deserves  censure,  what  punishment  is 
due  to  the  offender  who  only  begins  his  toilet  as  the 
last  visitor  enters  the  drawing-room  ? 

In  the  "Physiologic  du  GoAt"  Brillat-Savarin 
gives  a  comically-agonizing  picture  of  the  tortures 
which  he  endured  whilst  waiting  four  hours  for 
dinner  in  the  salon  of  the  Arch-Chancellor  Cam- 


I 

230  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

bac^rfes.  The  first  Napoleon  was  in  the  plenitude 
of  his  power  when  the  Chancellor,  whose  "  dinners'* 
were  a  powerful  element  of  the  Imperial  system, 
invited  Monsieur  Brillat-Savarin  to  assist  at  a  cere- 
monious banquet.  When  the  guests  arrived,  there 
was  no  host  to  bid  them  welcome.  The  clock 
pointed  to  half-past  five,  the  time  fixed  for  the 
dinner,  and  still  the  Chancellor  was  conspicuous  by 
his  absence.  Demanding  punctuality  from  others, 
and  ever  ready  to  censure  vehemently  any  want  of 
it  in  his  friends,  he  was,  of  all  great  hosts,  the  last 
who  should  have  ofiended  so  signally.  On  entering 
the  room  of  reception  shortly  before  the  half  hour, 
Brillat-Savarin  found  it  a  scene  of  agitation  and 
dismay.  Some  of  the  guests  conversed  in  whispers 
or  lowly-muttered  words.  Some  were  regarding 
one  another  curiously  and  piteously  from  the 
comers  of  their  eyes.  The  countenances  of  all 
were  expressive  of  surprise,  perplexity,  and  painful 
apprehension.  "What  has  happened?"  Brillat- 
Savarin  murmured  in  the  ear  of  an  acquaintance. 
"  Alas  r'  was  the  answer,  "  Monseigneur  has  been 
sent  for  to  the  Council  of  the  State;  he  has  just  set 
out,  and  who  knows  when  he  will  return  ?"  The 
man  of  law  and  gastronomic  wisdom  endeavoured 
to  treat  the  affair  lightly ;  but  the  attempt  at  play- 
fulness was  a  doleful  failure.  Dropping  into  de- 
spondency at  the  close  of  the  first  hour,  when  every 


TOO   LATE  !    TOO   LATE  I  231 

guest  had  made  half  a  dozen  conjectures  as  to  the 
nature  of  the  urgent  business  at  the  Tuileries,  the 
learned  epicure  seated  himself  on  the  corner  of  a 
sofa,  and  meditated  gloomily  on  sudden  reversals  of 
fortune.  Before  the  second  hour  had  passed  the 
victims  became  morose  and  querulous.  There  are 
conditions  under  which  even  Frenchmen,  of  the  best 
temper  and  breeding,  cannot  be  cheerful  and  polite. 
Those  who  bore  themselves  least  manfully  were 
three  or  four  seatless  wretches.  Wandering  to  and 
fro,  they  scowled  at  one  another,  and  regarded  the 
sitting  martyrs  with  looks  of  implacable  animosity. 
The  tortures  of  the  second  hour  were  repeated  and 
intensified  in  the  third.  The  aspect  of  affairs  did 
not  brighten  when,  towards  the  middle  of  the  fourth 
hour,  a  gentleman,  returning  from  a  visit  of  inquiry 
to  the  kitchen,  remarked  viciously,  "  Monseigneur 
went  out  without  giving  orders,  and,  however  long 
his  absence,  dinner  will  not  be  served  till  his 
return."  The  announcement  was  followed  by  a  groan 
of  anguish  from  the  entire  company.  "  Amongst 
all  the  martyrs,"  says  the  narrator,  "the  most 
wretched  was  the  good  D'Aigrefeuille,  who  is  known 
to  all  Paris ;  his  body  was  all  torture ;  the  agony 
of  Laocoon  was  in  his  face.  Pale,  distracted,  see- 
ing nothing,  he  sat  crouched  upon  an  easy-chair, 
crossed  his  little  hands  upon  his  large  belly,  and 
closed  his  eyes,  not  to  sleep,  but  to  wait  the  ap- 


2!}2  A   BOOK  ADOUT  TH£  TABLE. 

proach  of  death/*  But  oro  this  extreme  sufferer 
lost  coiisciousnesSy  he  was  revived  by  a  sound  of 
wheoln,  and  an  animating  assurance  that  relief  was 
at  hand.  In  another  minute  Cambac(Sres  appeared 
— but  too  late.  His  friends  had  lost  appetite,  nerve, 
and  all  disposition  for  epicurean  enjoyment.  The 
stronger  of  them  were  restored  to  their  usual  vigour 
by  a  night's  roposci  but  the  weaker  and  more  sensi- 
tive were  obliged  to  send  for  their  physicians  on  the 
morrow. 


233 


CHAPTER  XIII. 

MANNERS :  AND  THE  WANT  OP  THEM. 

"  And  though  that  he  was  worthy  he  was  wise, 
And  of  his  port  as  moke  as  is  a  mayde." 

Ohaucer'b  "  Oakterbdbt  Tales," 
"  Manners  make  the  man,  and  want  of  thorn  '  the  fellow.'  '*— Old 

PllOVEBB. 

"  I  cannot  mnoh  commend  the  oxtrayagance  of  the  feasting  at 
those  readings."-*"  Lite  or  Loud  Keeper  GuiLDroBD." 
**  As  drank  as  a  lord."— Oureent  Oalumnt. 

THE  English  of  strictly  feudal  times  wore  no 
long  sitters  over  the  dinner-table.  Having 
eaten  suffioiently,  they  drank  a  deep  draught  of  ale, 
passed  the  loving-oupi  said  grace^  and  went  their 
way s —knightly  persons  to  their  sports,  lawyers  to 
their  courts,  traders  to  their  shops,  and  farmers  to 
their  fields.  The  best  of  the  day  was  the  interval 
between  dinner  and  supper,  and  men  of  pleasure 
resembled  men  of  business  in  declining  to  spend  it 
in  drink.  Cogan  was  of  opinion  that  an  hour  was 
long  enough  for  anyone's,  and  far  too  long  for  a 
student' 1^,  dinner.  The  directions  given  by  cham- 
berlains and  masters  of  ceremonies  for  **  voiding  the 
hall,"  as  soon  as  feasters  had  washed  their  hands 
after  the  third  course,  show  that  it  was  not  the 


234  A   BOOK   ABOUT  THE   TABLE, 

mode  with  the  old  English  to  sit  long  over  their 
drink  when  they  had  taken  enough  food  at  the  earlier 
of  the  two  chief  meals. 

But  in  Elizabethan  time  the  wealthy  would,  on 
highly  festal  occasions,  remain  at  table  for  several 
hours,  to  the  confusion  of  their  speech,  and  to  the 
scandal  of  sober  witnesses  of  their  excess.  "  For 
the  nobilitie,  gentlemen,  and  merchantmen,  espe- 
ciallie  at  great  meetings,"  says  Harrison,  "  doo  sit 
commonlie  till  two  or  three  of  the  clocke  at  after- 
noone,  so  that  with  manie  it  is  an  hard  matter  to 
rise  from  the  table  to  go  to  evening  prayer,  and 
retume  from  thence  to  come  time  enough  for 
supper."  But  such  indulgence  appeared  to  the 
Elizabethan  chronicler  a  discreditable  departure 
fi'om  the  better  manners  of  olden  time. 

Clerical  dignitaries  had  an  evil  fame,  at  least  on 
the  lips  of  their  enemies,  for  their  inordinate  devo- 
tion to  the  pleasures  of  the  table.  But  if  not  the 
pure  inventions  of  Protestant  malice,  the  Eliza- 
bethan stories  of  gluttonous  prelates  and  tippling 
deans,  who  signalized  themselves  by  intemperance 
in  days  prior  to  the  Reformation,  were  certainly 
not  devoid  of  humorous  exaggeration. 

Cogan  speaks  of  an  Archbishop  of  York  who  sat 
three  entire  years  at  dinner.  But  on  inquiry  it 
appears  the  primate  only  enjoyed  himself  at  an  un- 
usually  solemn   banquet,    '*  which,"    says   Thomas 


THE    ARCHBISHOP   DINES.,  235 

Wilson  in  the  "Arte  of  Rhetoric"  (1553),  "perhaps 
began  at  eleven,  and  continued  well-nigh  till  fower 
in  the  afternoone."  Thus,  instead  of  feasting  for 
three  years.  His  Grace  did  not  prolong  his  sitting 
beyond  the  fifth  hour.  Scarcely  had  he  entered  on 
the  first  course  when  there  appeared  at  his  gate  the 
Italian  ecclesiastic,  whose  pleasantry  gave  birth  to 
the  malicious  story.  On  learning  that  the  Arch- 
bishop was  at  dinner,  the  Italian  whiled  away  an 
hour  in  looking  at  the  Minster,  and  then  made  a 
second  attempt  to  get  admittance  to  the  Primate, 
when  he  was  again  repelled  by  the  porter  with  a 
declaration  that  His  Grace,  being  at  dinner,  could 
not  receive  callers.  With  no  better  result,  the 
foreign  priest  knocked  at  the  archbishop's  gate  at 
two  o'clock ;  and  for  a  fourth  time  at  three  o'clock, 
when  "  the  porter,  in  a  heate,  answered  never  a 
worde,  and  churlishlie  did  shutte  the  gates  upon 
him."  Whereupon  the  Italian,  whose  afi^airs  were 
urgent,  set  out  at  once  for  London,  and  returned  to 
Home  without  seeing  the  spiritual  chief  of  the 
northern  province.  Three  years  later,  encounter- 
ing in  Rome  an  Englishman  who  declared  himself 
right  well-known  to  His  Grace  of  York,  the  Italian, 
clothing  his  face  with  a  merry  smile,  inquired, 
droUy,  "  I  pray  you,  good  sir,  hath  that  archbishop 
dined  yet  ?" 

The  time  which  this  archbishop  actually  spent  at 


236  A   BOOK  ABOUT  THE   TABLE. 

the  banquet  was  not  inordinate  in  Grimod  de  la 
Eeyniere's  opinion.  "  Cinq  heures  a  table,"  says 
the  famous  editor  of  the  "Almanach  des  Gour- 
mands/* "sont  une  latitude  raisonnable  pour  un 
diner  nombreux  et  une  ch^re  recherch^e." 

But  though  the  piquant  stories  of  clerical  gour- 
mandise  wore  based  on  gross  exaggerations,  and 
garnished  with  pure  lies,  there  is  no  lack  of  evidence 
that  the  typical  dignitaries  of  Holy  Church  in 
Catholic  England  were  not  deficient  in  gastronomic 
zeal  and  taste.  Cranmer's  orders,  for  the  restraint 
of  excess  at  clerical  tables  indicate  that  the  festal 
freedom  of  the  hierarchy  sometimes  bordered  on 
licentiousness.  By  those  orders,  primates  were 
limited  to  six  flesh  dishes  on  flesh  days,  and  to  the 
same  number  offish  dishes  on  fish  days.  Bishops 
were  allowed  five  dishes,  deans  and  archdeacons 
four  dishes,  and  beneficed  clergy  of  the  inferior 
grades  two  dishes.  Custards,  tarts,  fritters,  cheese, 
and  apples  did  not  "  count"  as  dishes.  *  They  were 
mere  "  extras"  and  fanciful  additaments,  of  which 
the  clerical  gourmet  might  eat  as  many  and  much  as 
he  pleased.  In  his  "  Sufiferings  of  the  Clergy,"  Dr. 
Walker  tells  how  a  pious  parish-priest  was  ejected 
from  his  cure  by  the  Commonwealth  Puritans  be- 
cause he  was  accused  of  having  "eaten  custard 
scandalously."  The  Reformers  of  the  sixteenth 
century  knew  of  no  such   offence,   and   permitted 


obanmeb's  obdebs.  237 

men  of  all  degrees  to  consult  their  pleasure  in  the 
eating  of  tarts  and  sweet-meats.  But  whilst  limit- 
ing the  numbers  of  dishes  to  be  placed  on  clerical 
tables,  they  were  careful  also  to  prescribe  the 
quantity  of  good  cheer  for  each  dish.  Cranmer 
(vide  Leland's  "  Collectanea")  ordered  "  that  of  the 
greater  fyshes  or  fowls,  there  should  be  but  one  in 
a  dyshe,  as  crane,  swan,  turkey,  haddocke,  pyke, 
tench;  and  of  the  less  but  two,  viz.,  capons  two, 
pheasants  two,  conies  two"  (rabbits  ranking  as 
poultry  at  table,  as  they  still  do),  "  and  woodcockes 
two.  Of  less  sortes,  as  of  partriches,  the  arch- 
bishop three,  the  bishop,  and  other  degrees  under 
hym,  two.  Of  blaokbirdes,  the  archbishop  six,  the 
bishop  four,  the  other  degrees  three.  Of  larkes  and 
snypes,  and  of  that  sort,  but  twelve."  The  object 
of  the  restrictions  was  the  good  of  the  poor,  for 
whom  the  clergy  were  enjoined  to  buy  "playne 
meates"  with  money  hitherto  spent  on  superfluous 
luxuries. 

There  was  more  talk  after  supper  than  after 
dinner  in  feudal  time.  The  while  during  which  our 
pre-Reformation  ancestors  rested  themselves  after 
the  earlier,  and  the  mile  that  they  walked  after  the 
later  meal,  were  alike  short.  As  twihght  deepened 
in  summer,  or  when  the  log-fires  on  winter  even- 
ings  covered  wall  and  tapestry  with  flickering  flame- 
shine,  our  forefathers  liked  to  chat  on  their  homely 


238  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

interests,  or  listen  to  the  music  of  minstrels  and 
ballad-singers.  Supper  was  also  a  jollier  meal  than 
dinner. 

But  in  the  nobler  circles  it  was  not  the  mode  to 
be  noisily  hilarious  at  either  meal.  Populace  might 
be  riotous  at  meat,  but  aristocracy,  even  over  its 
cups,  was  sedate,  decorous,  even  frigid,  notwith- 
standing its  courteousness.  Conversation  was  no 
art  in  high  esteem  at  mediaeval  tables  of  the  first 
class.  The  fun  was  made  by  the  professional 
fool  during  the  processes  of  assay  and  the  shift- 
ings  of  courses.  The  actual  eating  was  done  in 
silence.  Mirthful  loquacity  being  the  business  of 
the  jester  with  belled  cap — the  prattler,  who 
because  he  could  prattle  lightly,  was  pitied  and 
petted,  and  sometimes  whipt  for  his  impudence 
— gentlemen  of  quick  wit  were  reluctant  to  show 
it  lest  they  too  should  be  mistaken  for  "  fools," 
or  at  least  should  lose  something  of  their  dignity. 

Towards  the  close  of  the  strictly  feudal  (say  of 
the  Tudor)  period,  English  manners  in  the  higher 
ranks  lost  much  of  their  ancient  forn\ality ;  but 
the  same  stately  decorousness  distinguished  per- 
sons of  patrician  breeding  and  carriage  from  the 
commonalty.  **  I  might  here,"  says  William  Har- 
rison of  his  contemporaries  in  England,  "  talke 
somewhat  of  the  great  silence  that  is  used  at  the 
tables  of  the  honourable  and  wiser  sort  generallie 


00URTIEB8   AND   COMMONALTY.  239 

over  all  the  realme  (albeit  that  too  much  deserveth 
no  commendation,  for  it  belongeth  to  guests  to  be 
neither  muti  nor  loquaces),  likewise  the  moderate 
eating  and  drinking  that  is  dailie  seene,  and  finallie 
of  the  regard  that  each  one  hath  to  keepe  himselfe 
from   note    of   surfetting    and    drunkennesse    (for 
which   cause   salt  meat,  except  beefe,    bacon,  and 
porke  are  not  anie  whit  esteemed,  and  yet  these 
three   may  be   much    powdered) ;    but   as   in   the 
rehearsall  thereof  I  should  commend  the  nobleman, 
merchant,    and    frugall  artificer,  so   I   could    not 
cleare   the   meaner   sort   of  husbandmen  of  verie 
much  hobbling  (except  it  be  here  or  there  some  od 
yeoman),  with  whom  he  is  thought  to  be  meriest 
that  talketh  of  most  ribaldrie,  or  the  wisest  man 
that  speakest  fastest  among  them,    and  now  and 
then    surfetting    and    drunkennesse,    which    they 
rather  fall  into  for  want  of  heed-taking,  than  wil- 
fuUie   following  or  delighting   in  those  errours  of 
set  mind  and  purpose.     It  may  be  that  diners  of 
them  living  at  home  with  hard  and  pinching  diet, 
small   drinks,    and   some   of    them   having   scarce 
enough  of  that,  are  soonest  overtaken  when  they 
come   unto   such  bankets,    howbeit    they    take  it 
generallie  as  no  small  disgrace  if  they  happen  to 
be  cup-sbotten,  so  that  it  is   a  grefe  unto   them, 
though  now  sans   remedie  sith  the  thing  is  done 
and  past/' 


240  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

At  times  of  high  revel,  and  at  particular  festi- 
vities, such  as  bridals,  the  feudal  English  of  the 
higher  classes,  however,  allowed  themselves  greater 
freedom.  And  in  accordance  with  the  temper  of 
a  period,  whose  general  dissoluteness  was  due  to 
other  causes  besides  antagonism  to  and  reaction 
against  Puritanism,  our  gentry  of  the  Caroline 
reigns  exhibit  in  their  festivities  a  proneness  to 
riot  and  "ungodly  glee,'*  unknown  in  former 
times.  In  his  notice  of  the  extravagant  feasting, 
with  which  Francis  North  (Lord  Guildford)  cele- 
brated his  Temple  "  readings,"  Roger  North  gives 
a  notable  instance  of  the  riotous  ill  manners  that 
often  distinguished  the  festive  meetings  of  modish 
gentlemen  in  Charles  the  Second's  London.  "  The 
profusion  of  the  best  provisions  and  wine,"  he 
observes,  "  was  to  the  worst  of  purposes,  de- 
bauchery, disorder,  tumult  and  waste.  I  will  give 
but  one  instance :  upon  the  grand  day,  as  it  was 
called,  a  banquet  was  provided  to  be  set  on  the 
table,  composed  of  pyramids,  and  smaller  services 
in  form.  The  first  pyramid  was  at  least  four  feet 
high,  with  stages  one  above  another.  The  con- 
veying this  up  to  the  table,  through  a  crowd,  that 
were  in  full  purpose  to  overturn  it,  was  no  small 
work;  but  with  the  friendly  assistance  of  the 
gentlemen,  it  was  set  on  the  table.  But,  after  it 
was  looked  upon  a  little,  all  went  hand  over  head. 


chesterfield's  influence.  241 

among  the  rout  in  the  hall,  and,  for  the  more 
part,  was  trod  under  foot.  The  entertainment 
the  nobility  had  out  of  this  was,  after  they  had 
tossed  away  the  dishes,  a  view  of  the  crowd  in 
confusion,  wallowing  one  over  another,  and  con- 
tending for  a  dirty  share  of  it."  When  the  "  gen- 
tlemen*' of  the  Temple  behaved  in  this  unseemly 
manner,  the  "  Inns  of  Court"  were  still  regarded 
as  the  university  for  our  aristocratic  youth,  and  the 
more  modish  gallants  of  the  four  inns  prided  them- 
selves on  being  the  flower  of  fashion. 

Throughout  the  remaining  years  of  the  seven- 
teenth, and  the  earlier  half  of  the  eighteenth  cen- 
tury, English  manners  continued  to  deteriorate 
under  the  growing  taste  for  heavy  wines  and 
ardent  spirits.  The  aristocratic  mohocks  of  Queen 
Anne's  time,  like  the  German  baron  who  amused 
himself  by  dancing  on  his  dinner  table,  were  out- 
rageously noisy  ^nd  clumsily  sportive  over  their 
cups.  The  table  manners  of  our  earlier  Georgian 
times  are  proverbial  for  grossness,  and  the  litera- 
ture of  the  period  fully  justifies  their  evil  reputation. 
It  was  not  till  Chesterfield  had  made  war  against 
the  swaggerers,  and  produced  the  school  of  stately 
**  exquisites"  who  were  the  forerunneas  of  the 
Brumwellian  "dandies,"  that  good  sense  combined 
with  good  taste  to  put  drunkenness  and  festal 
uproar  once  more  out  of  fashion. 

VOL.  I.  B 


242 


CHAPTER  XIV. 


SPITS   AND    JACKS. 

"Pingnia  in    yembas  torrebinns  exta  colnmis." 

Fufe  Virgil's  "  Georgic  II.  396." 
"  Boost  beef  and  goos,  with  gnrlek,  yinegre  or  pepur  in  concla- 
sionn." — Fide  Russell's  "Boke  op  Nurture." 

"  He  was  not  pale  as  a  forpined  gost, 
A  fat  swan  loved  he  best  of  any  rost." 

Vide  Chaucer's  Monk,  — Canterburt  Tales. 
^  His  arguments  in  silly  circles  ran. 
Still  round  and  round,  and  end  where  they  begun. 
So  the  poor  turnspit,  as  the  wheel  runs  round. 
The  more  he  gains,  the  more  he  loses  ground. 

Vide  Pitt's  "  Art  op  Preachino." 
Loi'd  Kenyan  (to  the  Clerk  of  the  Bules.)  **  Sir,  tell  the  House  of 
Commons  that  I  will  not  be  yelped  at  by  my  own  turnspit."  JekyU 
{on  Lord  Kenyan's  "  always  bright  spits.")  "  Don't  talk  about  the 
spits,  for  nothing  turns  on  them." — FicZe  Lord  Campbell's  "Lipe 
OP  Lord  Ken  yon." 

TN  the  series  of  inventions  the  spit  precedes  the 
A  pot.  Madame  Dacier  overstated  the  case  when 
she  remarked  that  Homer  makes  no  mention  of 
boiled  meat.  An  instance  against  her  assertion  may 
be  found  in  the  Fifth  Book  of  the  "  Iliad,"  which 
Warner  produces  as  the  only  notice  of  boihng  in  the 
Homeric  poems.  The  heroes  of  mythical  Greece 
fed  on  "roasts"  and  "broils,"  in  their  general,  if 
not  universal,  want  of  pots  that  would  endure  fire. 


POT-LUCK.  243 

But  as  soon  as  such  vessels  were  invented  by  the 
Egyptians,  they  quickly  came  into  common  use. 
Whilst  the  rich,  with  slaves  to  turn  their  spits, 
accepted  the  boiler  as  a  contrivance  for  multiplying 
the  luxuries  of  the  table,  the  poor  adopted  it  as  an 
instrument  for  cooking  with  the  least  possible  trouble 
and  cost.  Boiling  saved  the  waste  of  the  dripping, 
and  the  labour  of  a  vigilant  "  turner"  of  the  roasting 
meat.  Having  thrown  pieces  of  meat  into  the  pot, 
the  cook  could  leave  them  with  a  quiet  mind  till  the 
time  came  for  dishing  the  savoury  pottage.  The  pot 
needs  no  watching.  Indeed,  there  is  an  old  adage 
which  forbids  the  cook  to  watch  his  boiler.  "  The 
watched  pot  never  boils." 

In  the  mediadval  kitchen,  economy  and  convenience 
preferred  the  pot  to  the  spit.  For  one  dish  cooked 
with  the  latter,  twenty  messes  came  from  the  former. 
The  recipes  of  the  "  Forme  of  Oury"  demonstrate 
this  fact.  Populace  fed  habitually  jfrom  the  pot, 
and,  save  on  highly  festal  occasions,  never  sniflTed  the 
smell  of  "  crackling."  Even  to  modem  time 
"roasts"  were  regarded  as  delicacies  for  the  rich 
rather  than  as  food  for  the  poorer  sort  of  people. 
Noble  and  knight,  squire  and  wealthy  franklin, 
thought  gratefully  of  the  spit.  The  husbandman 
and  hind  extolled  the  "  pot"  as  the  chief  friend  of 
the  hungry. 

Broiling  doubtless  preceded  roasting;  and  it  is 

B  2 


244  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

probable  that  ere  meat  was  exposed  to  fire  on  a  spit, 
the  primitive  roasters  hung  their  flesh  before  the 
flaming  fael  by  means  of  string  and  cross-bar.  But 
the  wooden  spit  played  an  important  part  in  cookery 
at  an  early  date,  and  had  been  used  for  centuries 
when  metal  spits  were  regarded  as  novelties.  It 
has  been  suggested  that  the  steel  spit  is  a  contri« 
vance  for  which  we  are  indebted  to  the  military  pro- 
fession. In  default  of  a  hazel  skewer  and  iron  pot, 
the  fasting  soldier  would  be  apt  to  use  his  sword  or 
spear  as  a  toasting-fork.  It  may  be  that  the  mili- 
tary aptitude  for  cooking  under  difficulties  led  to 
the  discovery  which  in  Time's  slow  course  put  out 
of  general  request  such  rude  and  simple  broaches  as 
Virgil  mentions  in  the  second  Georgic  : — 

"  The  altar  let  the  gnilty  goat  approach. 
And  roast  his  fat  limbs  on  the  hazel  broach." 

Centuries  have  passed  since  wooden  broaches  dis- 
appeared from  the  well-furnished  kitchen.     Eefer- 
ring  to  them  as  the  exploded  contrivances   of  a 
remote  time,  Rabelais  says,  "  Then  immediately  did 
Epistemon  make,  in  the  name  of  the  nine  Muses, 
nine  antique  wooden  spits."     But  to  this  day  they 
are  used  on  Twelfth  Night,  in  those  parts  of  France 
where  the  superstitious  peasant  delights  to  work  a 
miracle  on  the  eve  of  Epiphany  by  spitting  a  few 
larks  with  a  slender  and  fresh-cut  twig,  and  then 
placing  the  loaded  broach  before  a  brisk  fire.     In  a 


SPITS   AND   BROACHES.  245 

few  minutes  the  heat  acts  upon  the  bark  and  sap- 
vessels  of  the  twig,  so  that  it  turns  round  without 
any  application  of  muscular  force.  Of  course,  the 
simple  beholders  of  this  marvel  exclaim,  "  A  miracle ! 
a  miracle !"  and  attribute  to  spiritual  agency  the 
phenomenon  for  which  they  have  no  scientific  ex- 
planation. 

A  simple  stake  of  hard  wood,  thick  at  one  end 
and  sharpened  at  the  other,  the  primitive  spit,  when 
it  had  been  forced  through  a  mass  of  flesh,  was  laid 
on  two  wooden  crutches  that  were  fixed  at  a  con- 
venient distance  from  the  fire.  To  facilitate  the 
turner's  labour,  a  mechanical  genius  in  course  of 
time  fitted  this  rudest  form  of  spit  with  a  handle, 
which  was  attached  to  the  thick  end  of  the  staff  by 
nails  or  pegs.  To  broach  is  to  prick,  whether  the 
thing  operated  upon  be  a  horse's  flank,  a  vessel  of 
liquor,  a  doctrine,  an  article  of  clothing,  or  a  piece 
of  news.  Knights  in  olden  time  broached  their 
steeds  with  points  which  perforated  the  skin.  To 
this  day  ladies  broach  their  mantles  and  neck- 
kerchiefs  with  pins  that  are  usually  fitted  with  clasps. 
A  spit  with  the  thick  end  pierced  by  the  pins  of  a 
handle,  was  called  a  broached  or  broach-spit,  a  term 
that  distinguished  it  from  the  pointed  rod  without  a 
handle.  The  compound  word  was  lost  when  it  had 
become  the  universal  custom  to  make  spits  with 
handles;   and  from  that  time  the  large  roasting 


246  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

Bkewer  was  called  "  the  broacV  as  often  as  "  the 
spit." 

The  broach-turners  of  the  Old  English  kitchen 
were  amongt  its  lowest  drudges ;  though  their  toil 
was  fairly  remunerated.  It  was  only  in  great  house- 
holds that  they  were  retained  permanently.  In- 
ferior establishments  found  their  broach-turners  for 
the  preparation  of  special  banquets  in  their  ''  odd 
men*'  and  "  servile  loafers,"  who  had  no  title  to 
rank  as  "regular  servants."  The  aged  pensioner 
of  squire  or  merchant  gladly  took  his  groat  and 
victuals  for  turning  the  spit  on  festal  days  in  his 
patron's  kitchen.  The  wandering  beggar  was  always 
on  the  look-out  for  the  same  employment  in  the 
dwellings  he  approached  with  shuffling  gait  and 
whining  voice.  Diccou,  the  vagabond  of  "  Gammer 
Gurton's  Needle,"  says : — 

''  Many  a  mile  have  I  walked,  divers  and  sundry  waies. 
And  many  a  good  man's  house  have  been  at  in  my  days. 
Many  a  gossip's  cap  in  my  time  have  I  tasted. 
And  many  a  hroche'Spit  have  I  both  turned  and  basted. 
Many  a  piece  of  bacon  have  I  had  out  of  their  balkes, 
In  running  over  the  country,  with  long  and  weiy  walkes." 

Fourpence  was  the  sum  paid  from  the  chest  of  St. 
Bartholomew's  Hospital,  Sandwich,  a.d.  1569,  to  the 
varlet  who  turned  the  broach  for  a  feast  served  in 
honour  of  the  mayor  of  the  borough.  Of  course, 
the  fellow  had  his  food  as  well  as  his  fee. 


BROKEN  TO  THE   WHEEL.  247 

Not  more  fond  of  dogs  than  clever  in  training 
them  to  service,  our  Tudor  ancestors  substituted 
canine  for  human  turnspits.  To  effect  this  they 
produced  the  obsolete  "  roaster,"  whose  spit  was 
set  in  motion  by  a  wheel  worked  by  a  long-backed 
cur  with  short  crooked  legs.  Set  in  a  frame,  nailed 
to  a  convenient  beam  of  the  kitchen  ceiling,  or  fixed 
against  an  adjacent  wall,  the  dog-wheel  was  con- 
nected by  an  "  endless  rope**  with  the  spit  that, 
instead  of  being  fitted  with  a  handle,  had  a  circular 
piece  of  wood  at  one  end.  When  the  dog  had  been 
placed  in  the  larger  wheel  of  this  ingenious  appa- 
ratus, the  spit  was  soon  in  action.  Lifting  his  feet 
in  futile  attempts  to  run  forwards,  and  escape  from 
a  hot  coal  laid  at  his  heels  on  the  inner  surface  of 
the  wheel's  circumference,  the  young  animal  gave 
the  requisite  impulse  to  the  machine.  If  he  grew 
sluggish  as  the  ember  cooled,  another  piece  of  burn- 
ing fuel  was  taken  from  the  fire,  and  placed  where 
it  would  rouse  his  enthusiasm  for  monotonous  toil. 
A  day  at  the  wheel  was  enough  to  teach  a  fairly 
intelligent  cur  that,  once  on  duty,  he  could  only  save 
his  heels  from  the  fiery  torture  by  using  them 
actively  in  the  cook's  service,  and  that  he  could  not 
escape  from  his  rotatory  workshop  until  he  had 
accomplished  the  task  imposed  on  his  reluctant 
energies.  On  the  second  day,  if  he  shrunk  &om  the 
hand  which  proposed  to  put  him  to  another  spell  of 


^> 


248  A   BOOK  ABOUT  THE   TABLE. 

work,  the  whip  taught  him  the  necessity  of  obe- 
dience to  law.  If  he  ventured  to  avoid  his  social 
obligations  on  the  third  day  by  hiding,  as  the  roast- 
ing hour  drew  nigh,  he  was  flogged  with  still 
greater  severity.  After  a  week  of  this  sharp. disci- 
pline he  seldom  failed  to  recognize  his  place  in  life. 
Yielding  to  the  tyranny  which  he  could  not  resist 
with  advantage,  he  usually  accommodated  himself 
to  circumstances  with  canine  common  sense,  and  if 
a  dog  of  an  unusually  obsequious  temper,  he  would 
even  feign  contentment  with  a  lot  and  labour  which 
his  soul  necessarily  abhorred. 

"  How  well  do  I  recollect,"  wrote  Mr.  Jesse,  "  in 
the  days  of  my  youth  watching  the  operations  of  a 
turnspit  dog  at  a  house  of  a  worthy  Welsh  clergy- 
man who  taught  me  to  read.  He  was  a  good  man, 
wore  a  bushy  wig,  black  worsted  stockings,  and 
large  plated  buckles  in  his  shoes.  As  he  had 
several  boarders  as  well  as  day  scholars,  his  two 
turnspits  had  plenty  to  do.  They  were  long- 
bodied,  crook-legged,  ugly  dogs,  with  a  suspicious 
unhappy  look  about  them,  as  if  they  were  weary  of 
the  task  they  had  to  do,  and  expected  every  moment 
to  be  seized  upon  to  perform  it.  Cooks  in  those 
days,'  as  they  are  said  to  be  at  present,  were  yory 
cross ;  and  if  the  poor  animals,  wearied  with  having 
a  larger  joint  than  usual  to  turn,  stopped  for  a 
moment,  the  voice  of  the  cook  might  be  heard  rating 


FROM   DOGS   TO   DONKIKR.  249 

them  in  no  gentle  manner.  When  we  consider  that 
a  large  solid  piece  of  beef  would  take  at  least  three 
hours  before  it  was  properly  roasted,  we  may  form 
some  idea  of  the  task  a  dog  had  to  perform  in 
turning  a  wheel  during  that  time.  A  pointer  has 
pleasure  in  finding  game,  the  terrier  worries  rats 
with  eagerness  and  delight,  and  the  bull-dog  even 
attacks  bulls  with  the  greatest  energy,  while  the 
poor  turnspit  performs  his  task  with  compulsion, 
like  a  culprit  on  a  tread- wheel,  subject  to  scolding 
.or  beating  if  he  stops  a  moment  to  rest  his  weary 
limbs,  and  is  then  kicked  about  the  kitchen  when 
the  task  is  over." 

Whilst  dogs  of  suitable  smallness  worked  in  the 
broach- wheels  of  the  Elizabethan  kitchens,  dogs  of 
greater  size  and  strength — mastiflTs,  so-called,  says 
Harrison,  from  their  ability  to  "  master  thieves" — 
were  made  to  turn  wheels  that  raised  water  from 
wells.  At  Royston,  in  Queen  Elizabeth's  time, 
water  was  thus  lifted  from  the  spring  of  a  deep  well 
by  a  dog  that  worked  on  a  revolving  floor,  just  as 
a  squirrel  plays  on  the  wires  of  a  rotatory  cage. 
The  ass,  whose  greater  weight  made  it  in  the  well- 
wheel  a  more  efficient  worker  than  the  heaviest  dog, 
was  substituted  for  this  service  in  the  seventeenth 
century ;  and  to  this  day  a  donkey  raises  water  at 
Carisbrooke  Castlp,  in  the  Isle  of  Wight,  by  vainly 


250         A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

trying  to  ascend  the  inner  surface  of  a  huge  wooden 
wheel. 

Speaking  of  the  four-legged  turners  of  the  broach, 
an  Elizabethan  physician,  Dr.  Caius,  the  founder  of 
Caius  College,  Cambridge,  wrote :  "  There  is  com- 
prehended, under  the  curs  of  the  coarsest  kind,  a 
certain  dog  in  kitchen  service  excellent.  For  when 
any  meat  is  to  be  roasted,  they  go  into  a  wheel, 
which  they,  turning  about  with  the  weight  of  their 
bodies,  so  diligently  look  to  their  business  that  no 
drudge  nor  scullion  can  do  the  feat  more  cunningly, 
whom  the  popular  sort  hereupon  term  turn-spits." 

The  veriest  wretch  of  all  domesticated  animals, 
the  canine  turnspit  had  an  appearance  that. ac- 
corded with  his  miserable  estate.  Deriving  from 
the  skill  of  dog-breeders  an  unseemly  shape,  that, 
whilst  fitting  him  for  his  peculiar  drudgery,  made 
him  a  by-word  amongst  "  fanciers"  for  unsurpass- 
able ugliness,  he  could  not  regard  the  reflection  of 
his  distorted  limbs  and  graceless  body,  in  shining 
pewter  or  brilliant  steel,  without  emotions  of  self- 
abhorrence.  The  cripple  and  helot  of  his  species,  he 
was  scorned  by  dogs  of  better  looks  and  higher 
qualities.  The  mastiff  regarded  him  as  an  indolent 
Carolinian  proprietor  regards  a  negro  of  the  lowest 
type.  Whilst  my  lady's  spaniel  and  her  toy-terrier 
shrunk  from  him  as  a  terrifying  monster,  the  blood- 
hound and  the  deer-hound  growled  significantly  if 


COMB  "  wheel/*  OOME  WOE  !  251 

he  ventured  to  approach  them.  No  hand  ever 
caressed  him.  The  groom  kicked,  the  scullion 
rated,  the  cook  flogged  him.  But  he  had  not  the 
courage  to  wreak  upon  his  human  persecutors  the 
fury  of  a  temper  whose  natural  malignity  they 
aggravated  by  incessant  cruelties.  It  might  be 
imagined  that,  in  a  kitchen  provided  with  two  turn- 
spits, he  would  at  least  find  one  congenial  and 
sympathizing  friend  in  the  equally  despised  comrade 
of  his  toil  and  sorrow.  But  it  was  not  so.  Of  all 
living  creatures,  your  true  turnspit  dog  detested 
none  more  ferociously  and  implacably  than  his 
fellow  turnspit.  Abused  by  men  of  all  degrees, 
and  scorned  by  every  other  "  dog  of  the  house,'*  a 
pair  of  turnspits  were  continually  snarling  at  and 
fighting  each  other.  Each  accused  the  other  of 
shirking  his  fair  share  of  their  common  work,  and 
devouring  more  than  his  fair  share  of  their  common 
rations;  and  in  their  mutual  rage  they  would 
sometimes  fight  to  the  death.  Bufibn  tells  the 
story  of  a  turnspit  dog  that,  on  escaping  from  the 
wheel  in  the  Duo  de  Lianfort's  kitchen  in  Paris,  ran 
in  upon  his  fellow  turnspit  and  killed  him,  because 
the  latter  had,  by  skulking,  compelled  him  to  per- 
form an  additional  spell  of  work.  A  similar  incident 
occurred  at  the  Jesuit's  College  of  La  Fleche,  where 
a  turnspit  dog,  infuriated  by  being  compelled  to 
work  in  the  wheel  when  it  was  his  turn   to   be 


252  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

resting,  had  no  sooner  escaped  from  the  cage  of 
torture  than  he  hunted  out  his  dishonest  comrade, 
and,  after  a  brief  conflict  with  him,  took  his  life. 

The  satirical  literature  of  the  seventeenth  ami 
eighteenth  centuries  contains  several  allusions  to 
the  turnspits'  labour,  which,  in  spite  of  its  import- 
ance and  beneficence,  is  invariably  treated  by  the 
satirists  with  ingratitude  and  flippant  disdain.  The 
dog,  however,  is  not  the  only  creature  that  has 
been  compelled  to  turn  a  spit.  Lemery,  the 
famous  French  chemist,  who  flourished  in  the  time 
of  Louis  the  Fourteenth,  once  saw  a  goose  turning 
the  broach  on  which  a  fat  turkey  was  being  roasted. 
"  Alas  !"  says  a  gastronomer  who  moralizes  on  this 
incident  with  appropriate  feeling,  "  we  are  all  turn- 
spits in  this  world;  and  when  we  roast  a  friend 
let  us  be  aware  that  many  stand  ready  to  return  the 
compliment."  Describing  the  way  in  which  this 
turnspit  goose  performed  his  task,  Dumas  says, 
*'  EUe  tenait  Textr^mit^  de  la  broche  par  le  bee,  et 
son  cou,  en  s'allongeant  et  en  se  rdtr^cissant,  faisait 
Tefiet  d'un  bras.  De  temps  en  temps  seulement  on 
avait  soin  de  lui  donner  a  boire."  The  story  is 
produced  by  the-  novelist  to  prove  that  geese  are 
susceptible  of  education. 

Comical  stories  could  be  told  of  misadventures 
following  from  the  untimely  disappearance  of  turn- 
spit  curs.      Many  an  epicure's   kitchen   has   been 


BATH   IN  TROUBLE.  253 

thrown  into  confusion  by  the  sudden  retirement  of 
the  broach-dog.  Still  worse ;  all  the  inhabitants  of 
populous  cities  have  been  deprived  of  their  "  roasts," 
and  reduced  to  pot-lu6k  by  the  unexpected  loss  of 
many  hundred  curs,  simultaneously  and  maliciously 
lured  away  from  their  proper  kitchens.  At  the 
close  of  the  last  century  the  captain  of  a  man-of- 
war  stationed  off  Bristol,  in  his  resentment  at  the 
city's  incivility,  sent  his  blue-jackets  on  shore  with 
orders  to  seize  and  carry  on  board  every  turnspit 
dog  to  be  found  in  the  western  metropolis.  The 
sailors  executed  their  instructions  so  completely,  that 
the  Bristolians  were  without  roast  meat  until  they 
came  to  terms  with  the  heroic  dog-stealer,  and  had 
solemnly  promised  to  entertain  him  with  a  banquet 
appropriate  to  a  sailor  of  his  rank  and  special 
achievements.  A  similar  trouble  befell  the  fashion- 
able folk  of  Bath  some  years  later,  when  the  chair- 
men of  the  streets,  obeying  certain  practical  jokers 
in  the  ranks  of  the  highest  quality,  seized  all  the 
turnspits  of  the  town  on  Saturday  night,  and  kept 
them  in  concealment  till  Monday  morning.  Bath 
was  without  "  hot  roast"  all  Sunday,  the  day  on 
which  the  smell  and  flavour  of  "  hot  roast"  are 
especially  agreeable  to  church-going  Englishmen. 
By-the-way,  the  turnspit  curs  of  Bath  were  notable 
for  piety.  When  their  professional  avocations  per- 
mitted them  to  do  so,  they  never  failed  to  accom- 


254  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLK. 

pany  their  mistresses  to  the  services  of  the  abbey. 
And  it  is  on  record  that  they  were  examples  of 
grave  demeanour  at  the  religious  celebrations, 
unless  the  First  Chapter  of  Bzekiel,  with  its  re- 
iterations of  wheels  within  wheels,  was  one  of  the 
appointed  lessons  for  the  day.  Verse  15  of  that 
agonising  chapter,  made  the  dogs  restless ;  verse  16 
caused  them  to  yelp  and  bark  angrily ;  the  reader's 
voice  was  lost  in  the  lamentable  bowlings  and 
whinings  that  expressed  the  canine  disapproval  of 
verses  19  and  20.  In  their  terror  and  anguish,  the 
cruelly-entreated  animals,  raising  as  they  ran  a 
dismal  concert  of  doleful  sounds,  rushed  in  a  body 
from  the  abbey  as  the  reader  continued,  "When 
those  were  lifted  up  from  the  earth,  the  wheels 
were  lifted  up  over  against  them  :  for  the  spirit  of 
the  living  creature  was  in  the  wheels." 

In  Charles  the  Second's  time,  a  curious  mechan- 
ician contrived  a  machine  for  roasting  meat  that 
was  set  in  action  by  clock-work.  Speaking  of  this 
invention  in  the  "  Life  of  Lord  Keeper  Guildford," 
Roger  North  says,  "  And  once,  upon  an  invitation, 
his  lordship  dined  with  Sir  Samuel  Moreland  at  his 
house ;  and,  though  his  entertainment  was  exqui- 
site, the  greatest  pleasure  was  to  observe  his  de- 
vices ;  for  everything  showed  art  and  mechanism. 
....  His  coach  was  most  particular ;  and  he  made 
a  portable  engine  that  moved  by  watch- work,  which 


INGENIOUS  PEOPOSALS.  265 

might  be  called  a  kitchen ;  for  it  had  a  fireplace  and 
grate,  with  which  he  could  make  a  soup,  broil 
costelette,  or  roast  an  egg ;  and  for  that,  his  con- 
trivance was  by  a  fork  with  five  tines  (as  I  may  call 
it),  which  stood  upright  at  a  due  distance  before 
the  firegrate,  and  turned  slowly.  An  egg,  put  into 
that,  would  roast  according  to  art,  ^and,  if  a  piece  of 
meat  were  stuck  upon  it,  it  was  dressed  by  clock- 
work. He  said  that  this  machine  cost  him  £30. 
He  took  it  with  him  in  his  coach,  and,  at  the  inns, 
he  was  his  own  cook." 

Cleverer  in  contriving  new  instruments  than  in 
ruling  womanhood,  the  inventor  of  this  cooking 
apparatus  was  the  same  Sir  Samuel  Moreland  whose 
wife  amused  London  with  her  misdemeanours, 
whilst  he  entertained  it  with  ingenious  proposals. 
Pepys's  diary  and  correspondence  contain  several 
allusions  to  peccadilloes  of  the  lady,  who  was 
eventually  separated  from  her  husband  by  judicial 
decree.  Moreland  corresponded  with  the  Secretary 
for  the  Admiralty  on  his  project  for  a  new  gun- 
carriage.  An  experimental  agriculturist.  Sir  Samuel, 
lost  his  money  in  farming ;  and  he  is  one  of  the 
several  mechanicians  of  the  seventeenth  century 
who,  on  insufficient  evidence,  have  been  credited 
with  the  invention  of  the  steam-engine. 

Another  notable  invention  for  roasting  meat  was 
the  musical  turnspit,  that,  whilst  causing  joints  to 


256  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

gyrate  before  the  Count  de  Castel  Maria's  kitchen- 
fire,  played  four-and-twenty  tunes  to  the  cooks  of 
that  opulent  lord  of  Treviso.  The  spits  of  this 
machine  turned  a  hundred  and  thirty  roasts  at  the 
same  time  ;  and  the  chef  was  informed,  by  the  pro- 
gress of  the  melodies,  when  the  moment  had  arrived 
for  removing  each  piece  of  meat.  Chickens  were 
done  to  a  turn  when  the  organ  had  played  its 
twelfth  tune ;  the  completion  of  the  eighteenth  air 
was  the  signal  for  withdrawing  hares  and  pheasants ; 
but  the  largest  pieces  of  beef  and  venison  were  not 
ready  for  the  board  until  the  twenty-fourth  melody 
had  been  played  out.  Of  course  this  delightful 
machine  for  charming  the  ear  and  gratifying  the 
stomach  could  be  set  in  motion  by  the  dog,  the 
human  turnspit,  or  the  revolving  fans  of  the  smoke- 
jack.  A  barrel-organ  provided  with  roasting-spits 
is  a  mechanical  combination  that  would  delight  our 
cook-maids,  who  are  the  steadiest  and  most  munifi- 
cent supporters  of  the  vagrant  organ-grinders  of 
our  London  streets. 

Towards  the  close  of  the  eighteenth  century  the 
wheel  and  dog  were  replaced  in  many  kitchens  by 
the  smoke-jack,  an  arrangement  of  rotating  fans 
that,  sent  round  by  the  draught  of  air  and  smoke 
ascending  the  chimney,  accomplished  the  work 
hitherto  performed  by  a  miserable  cur.  At  the 
opening  of  the  present  century,  the  village  black- 


SMOKE    AND   BOTTLE- JACKS.  257 

Bmitli  made  considerable  yearly  earnings  as  a  maker 
and  repairer  of  smoke-jacks ;  and  whilst  attending 
to  this  department  of  his  business,  the  intelligent 
artisan  could  not  fail  to  observe  that  a  chimney's 
draught  was  quickened  by  the  rising  smoke,  and 
that  it  also  increased  in  proportion  to  the  largeness 
and  fierceness  of  the  fire.  These  obvious  facts 
bear  in  an  interesting  way  on  the  application  of  the 
**  blast"  to  the  locomotive.  Makers  and  repairers 
of  smoke-jacks,  like  all  the  other  handy  smiths  of 
their  district,  the  Northumbrian  engine-wrights, 
who  built  our  earliest  working  locomotives,  were 
sagacious  observers  of  all  circumstances  affecting 
the  draught  of  house-chimneys.  It  devdved  on 
them  to  cure  chimneys  of  smoking,  and  to  increase 
the  burning  power  of  stoves  by  quickening  the 
chimney  draught.  Under  these  circumstances,  it 
is  not  wonderful  that  at  an  early  date  in  the  history 
of  the  locomotive  they  saw  that  its  waste  steam 
might  be  used  to  quicken  the  draught  of  its  chim- 
ney, and  that  the  value  of  this  instrument  for 
keeping  up  a  good  fire  would  increase  in  propor- 
tion to  their  ability  to  make  a  larger  amount  of 
steam. 

The  dog-wheel  having  been  superseded  by  the 
smoke-jack,  the  latter  was  in  its  turn  discredited 
by  the  jack,  called  a  bottle-jack,  from  its  resem- 
blance to  a  large  bottle.     The   motive  power   of 

VOL.  1.  s 


258  A  BOOK  ABOUT  TEE  TABLE. 

this  instrument  is  the  weight  of  the  suspended 
meat,  which  it  causes  to  revolve  before  the  fire. 
Thus  the  work  of  turning  the  spit,  in  the  course 
of  centuries,  passed  from  men  to  dogs,  from  dogs 
to  atmospheric  force,  from  sportive  air  to  dead 
weight.  Having  first  imposed  the  labour  on  his 
meanest  curs,  man  next  constrained  the  buoyant 
breeze  to  play  the  part  of  kitchen  drudge.  His 
next  innovation  was  to  substitute  the  hook-spit  for 
the  spear-spit,  and  by  an  ingenious  piece  of  clock- 
work extort  from  **  gravity"  the  service  formerly 
rendered  by  the  wanton  atmosphere  or  by  muscular 
force.  He  must  be  an  old  man  who  can  remember 
seeing  a  turnspit-dog  working  in  its  wheel.  But  the 
smoke-jack  is  not  yet  altogether  a  thing  of  the 
past.  Gloucestershire  contains  at  least  one  great 
county-house,  the  bright  spits  of  whose  conser- 
vative kitchen  are  to  this  day  turned  by  the  fans 
of  an  old  fashioned  smoke-jack  revolving  in  a  huge 
old-fashioned  chimney. 

Apropos  of  "jacks,"  be  it  observed  that  the 
human  drudge,  who  in  feudal  times  turned  a  lord's 
meat-broach,  was  always  called  "  Jack"  by  his 
contemptuous  fellow-servants,  who,  by  thus  giving 
him  a  name  universally  despised  by  the  people  of 
Chaucer's  England,  expressed  their  disdain  of 
his  lowly  office.  Together  with  his  labour,  his 
name  passed  to  the  despised  cur,  the  active  air. 


THE   JAOK-TOWEL.  259 

• 

and  the  modem  bottle.  A  jack-towel  is  another 
piece  of  kitchen  furniture  to  be  noticed  in  connec- 
tion with  the  ancient  turn-spit's  special  name. 
Antiquaries  have  erred  in  supposing  that  the  end- 
less towel,  running  on  a  roller,  was  called  a  jack 
or  "jerk"  towel  because  the  user  in  selecting  a 
dry  place  of  the  cloth  "jerks"  it  round.  The  long, 
endless  napkin  running  on  a  roller  was  called  a 
jack-towel  from  its  resemblance  to  the  endless 
band  or  cord  that  connected  the  dog-wheel  and 
spit. 

Suspended  from  the  crooked  spit  of  a  bottle-jack, 
and  changing  colour  before  a  clear  fire,  a  sirloin 
of  beef  may  be  fairly  called  its  own  turnspit. 
Human  ingenuity  achieved  pne  of  its  proudest 
triumphs  when  it  thus  compelled  a  mass  of  uncon- 
scious flesh  to  prepare  itself  for  the  table.  The 
epicures  of  old  time  never  imagined  that  dead 
flesh  would  be  thus  made  its  own  cook.  All  they 
could  accomplish  in  this  department  of  the  mar- 
vellous was  to  signalize  their  barbarity  by  roasting 
live  geese  in  a  way  that  dispensed  with  the  ser- 
vices of  the  turnspit. 


s  2 


260 


CHAPTER  XV. 

CKUELTIES  AND  CURIOSITIES. 

"  A  little  before  our  times,  a  goose  was  wont  to  be  brought  to  the 
table  of  the  King  of  Arragon,  that  was  roasted  alive,  as  I  have 
heard  by  old  men  of  credit." — Vide  Baptista  Porta's  "Natural 
Magick." 

"  At  last  I  discovered,  with  some  joy,  a  pig  at  the  lower  end 
of  the  table,  and  begged  a  gentleman  that  was  near  to  cut  me  a 
piece  of  it.  Upon  which  the  gentleman  of  the  house  said  with  real 
civility,  *I  am  sure  you  will  like  the  pig,  for  it  was  whipt  to  death/  " 
—Vide  Addison's  No.  148.  "The  Tatler." 

"  So  ox-fiesh  may  grow  tender,  especially  of  old  oxen,  for  they 
are  hard  and  dry,  and  will  not  easily  boil." — Vide  "Natural 
Magick." 

THE  Neapolitans  of  the  sixteenth  century  were 
instructed  by  John  Baptista  Porta  how  plea- 
sant and  droll  a  thing  it  was  to  pluck  a  living 
goose,  anoint  her  with  suet,  put  her  on  the  floor  of 
a  closet  walled  in  with  a  circular  fireplace,  roast  her 
almost  to  death,  and  finally  eat  her  palpitating  flesh. 
Having  received  minute  instructions  for  compassing 
this  diabolical  repast  from  the  learned  author  of 
"  Natural  Magick,"  the  finest  gentlemen  and  dain- 
tiest ladies  of  Naples  carried  them  out  with  con- 
scientious exactitude  in  their  kitchens  and  at  their 
super-fashionable  tables. 

Speaking  on  the  authority  of  "  old  men  of  credit," 


A   DISH   TO    SET   BEFORE   A   KING.  261 

Baptista  Porta  relates  that  the  "  King  of  Arragon" 
delighted  in  no  dish  so  much  as  in  a  goose  that  had 
cooked  itself  before  expiring  on  his  plate  and  under 
his  royal  observation.  There  was  no  "  morbid 
tenderness"  for  the  lower  animals  in  Baptista's 
time.  On  the  contrary,  it  was  urged  by  the  moralists 
of  the  period  that  for  man  to  compassionate  the 
sufferings  of  the  unreasoning  brutes  was  to  question 
the  benevolence  of  the  Providence  who  had  made 
pain  a  condition  of  their  existence.  As  for  Bap- 
tista*s  feelings,  it  is  enough  to  say  that,  on  eating 
his  first  fowl  cooked  in  this  Arragonese  manner,  he 
was  sincerely  sorry  that  it  had  not  been  roasted  a 
little  more.  It  was  alive  and  excellent  on  the' out- 
side ;  but,  alas  I  the  process  had  suffered  from  the 
cook's  precipitancy. 

Recovering  himself,  the  learned  gentleman,  whose 
poor  Latin  was  superior  to  his  humanity,  ob- 
serves : — "  The  rule  to  do  it  is  thus  :  Take  a  duck, 
or  a  goose,  or  some  such  lusty  creature,  but  the 
goose  is  best  for  the  purpose  ;  pull  all  the  feathers 
from  his  body,  leaving  his  head  and  his  neck ;  then 
make  a  fire  round  about  him,  not  too  narrow,  lest 
the  smoke  choke,  or  the  fire  rost  him  too  soon  . 
not  too  wide,  lest  he  escape  unrosted.  Within  side 
set  everywhere  little  pots  of  water,  and  put  salt  and 
honey  to  them.  Let  the  goose  be  smeered  all  over 
with  suet,  and  well  larded,  that  he  may  be  the  better 


262         A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

meat,  and  rost  the  better ;  put  fire  about,  but  make 
not  too  much  haste ;  when  he  begins  to  rost  he  will 
walk  about,  and  cannot  get  forth,  for  the  fire  stops 
him ;  when  he  is  weary,  he  quencheth  his  thirst  by 
drinking  the  water,  by  cooling  his  heart  and  the  rest 

of  hjs  internal   parts Continually   moisten 

his  head  and  heart  with  a  sponge.  But  when  you 
see  him  run  mad  up  and  down,  and  to  stumble,  his 
heart  then  wants  moysture,  wherefore  take  him 
away,  and  set  him  on  the  table  to  your  guests." 
"  Ubi  vero,"  says  the  noble  philosopher,  whose 
Latin  is  inadequately  rendered  by  his  English 
translator,  **  insania  f erri,  et  cespitare  conspexeris 
(deficit  cordi  humidum)  remove,  convivis  appone 
evulsis  semper  partibus  vociferantem,  ut  fere  prius 
commessatus  quam  mortuus  videatur.'* 

This  revolting  receipt  for  cooking  a  goose  may 
also  be  found  in  John  Wecker's  "  Eighteen  Books 
of  the  Secrets  of  Art  and  Nature,"  the  impudent 
and  clumsy  reproduction  of  Porta's  "  Natural 
Magick,"  which  Dr.  Read  put  into  English  and  pub- 
lished in  the  year  of  Charles  the  Second's  restora- 
tion. From  Read's  translation  of  Wecker's  piratical 
performance,  it  passed  to  Dr.  Kitchiner's  "  Cook's 
Oracle,"  and  other  works  on  the  curiosities  of 
gastronomy. 

If  there  ever  was  a  titne  when  our  ancestors  could 
have  relished  such  a  diabolical  preparation,  it  had 


HOW  TO   MAKE  THINGS  PLEASANT,  263 

passed  long  before  the  BngKsh  physician  produced 
his  rendering  of  Wecker's  "  Art  and  Nature." 
There  is  no  evidence  that  the  King  of  Arragon's 
favourite  dish  was  ever  set  on  an  English  table. 
Not  that  our  ancestors,  in  their  pursuit  of  gastro- 
nomic pleasure,  were  incapable  of  practices  repug- 
nant to  the  finer  feeling  of  the  present  generation. 
It  was  their  custom  to  kill  animals  by  slow  and 
terrifying  processes,  in  order  that  their  flesh  should 
be  made  tender  by  muscular  agony  and  mental  dis- 
tress. The  flesh  of  the  hunted  hare  is  said  to  be 
more  tender  than  the  flesh  of  a  shot  hare ;  and  it  is 
probable  that  the  struggles  of  a  creature  slowly 
killed  by  torture  soften  its  muscles.  Anyhow,  our 
forefathers  were  assured  that  flesh  was  tender  in 
proportion  to  the  amount  of  pain  and  terror  em- 
ployed in  slaying  it.  Game  struck  by  the  terrifying 
falcon  was  more  toothsome  than  game  killed  in  a 
quicker  and  less  alarming  manner.  Hence  it  was 
usual  with  the  Old  English  to  fly  a  hawk  at  barn- 
door poultry  and  "  crammed  birds.**  At  other 
times,  the  feudal  housekeeper  would  throw  turkeys 
and  peacocks  into  the  air  from  the  top  of  a  gate- 
tower  or  church- steeple,  in  order  that  the  fowls,  as 
they  dropped  to  the  ground  below,  "with  great 
pains  and  shaking  of  thefir  wings,"  might  endure 
terror  which  could  not  fail  to  intenerate  their  flesh. 
Or,  with  the  same  object  in  view,  he  would  hang 


264  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

live  geese  or  turkeys  by  their  bills  or  necks  to  the 
bow  of  a  saddle,  and  order  a  servant  to  mount 
horse,  and  take  them  for  a  gallop  across  country. 
**  And  these,"  says  the  narrator,  "  being  thus  rackt 
and  tossed  with  great  pains,  at  the  journey's  end  you 
shall  find  dead  and  very  tender." 

In  like  manner  bulls  were  baited  with  dogs,  not 
so  much  for  the  barbarous  pleasure  of  witnessing 
brutal  conflicts  as  for  the  inteneration  of  the  beef, 
which  would  have  been  less  eatable  had  the  animals 
been  killed  quickly  with  knife  and  bludgeon.  "  The 
butchers,"  says  Baptista  Porta,  "  put  hounds  at 
them,  and  let  them  prey  upon  them,  and  they  will 
for  some  hours  defend  themselves  with  their  horns ; 
at  last,  being  overcome  by  multitudes  of  dogs,  they 
fall  with  their  ears  torn,  and  bit  in  th^ir  skin ; 
these,  brought  into  the  shambles,  and  cut  out,  are 
more  tender  than  ordinary.'*  To  bait  an  ox  with 
dogs  was  to  soften  its  flesh  for  the  teeth  of  old  men 
and  children ;  but  to  bait  the  animal  with  bears  was 
to  make  the  meat  so  tender  and  soluble  that  it 
would  melt  in  a  babe's  mouth.  The  apologist  for 
the  brutalizing  amusements  of  our  ancestors  will  see 
his  advantage  in  this  account  of  the  origin  and 
prime  purpose  of  bull-baiting.  To  show  that  the 
barbarity  had  a  commendable  object  is  at  least  to 
paUiate  its  worst  features,  and  also  to  account  for 
the  social  toleration  of  its  exhibitions.     So  long  as 


POR   THE    GOOD   OF   THE   MEAT.  265 

schoolboys  were  allowed  to  subscribe  their  pence  to 
defray  the  cost   of  bull-baitings,   teachers    of  the 
young  in  their  recognition  of  the  usefulness  over- 
looked   the   cruelty   of  the  sport.     To  the  gentle- 
women of  George  the  Second's  London,  who  daily 
watched  from  their  drawing-room  windows  the  bull- 
baitings  of  Lincoln's  Inn  Fields,  the  pastime  was 
little  else  than  a  process  for  supplying  the  market 
with  meat  of  the  finest  quality.     Had  they  known 
that  the  proper  inteneration  of  meat  could  have  been 
compassed  by  means  less  inconvenient  and  harass- 
ing to  the  baited  animal,  these  fair  watchers  of  the 
bull-ring  would  have  raised  their  voices  for  the  sup- 
pression of  a  sport  that  was  decidedly  diverting  and 
pleasant — to  the  spectators.     But  since  Providence 
and  human  wisdom  had  ordained  that  beef  should 
be  thus  prepared  for  the  table,  who  were  they  that 
they  should  presume  to  question  the  merits  of  the 
arrangement  ?     What  was  the  transient  discomfort 
of  a  brute  in  comparison  with  the  pleasure  of  civi- 
lized men,  and  all  the  good  that  ensues  from  delicate 
feeding  ?     It  was  not  to  be  supposed  that,  having 
authorized   man   to   kill   and   devour  the    inferior 
creatures,  the  great  Giver  of  "  good  cheer"  forbade 
.  him  to  use  every  means  for  rendering  them  in  the 
highest  degree  palatable  and  digestible. 

While  bull-baiting  was  still  sanctioned  in  England 
as  a  wholesome  culinary  process,  our  ancestors  in- 


266  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

tenerated  pigs  by  whipping  them  to  death,  a  treat- 
ment that  produced  the  requisite  bodily  convulsions 
and  mental  distress  in  the  dying  animal.  Addison 
tells  us  that  in  his  time  the  fastidious  epicure  would 
commend  a  sucking  pig,  or  a  piece  of  older  pork, 
to  his  friends  with  the  assurance  that  the  creature 
had  died  under  the  lash.  But  though  ordinary  folk 
saw  nothing  objectionable  in  this  culinary  practice, 
moralists  debated  whether  man  was  justified  in 
using  it  for  the  gratification  of  his  palate.  .  With 
a  seriousness  that,  taking  the  statement  from  the 
domain  of  humour,  gives  it  historic  dignity,  Charles 
Lamb  observes,  in  his  "  Dissertation  on  Roast  Pig," 
"  I  remember  an  hypothesis  argued  upon  by  the 
young  students  when  I  was  at  St.  Omer's,  and 
maintained  with  much  learning  and  pleasantry  on 
both  sides,  *  Whether,  supposing  that  the  flavour  of 
a  pig  who  obtained  his  death  by  whipping  {per 
fiagellationem  extremam)  superadded  a  pleasure  upon 
the  palate  of  a  man  more  intense  than  any  possible 
suffering  we  can  conceive  in  the  animal,  is  man 
justified  in  using  that  method  of  putting  the  animal 
to  death  ?'     I  forget  the  decision." 

Uninfluenced  by  the  votes  of  the  Catholic  stu- 
dents, the  humourist  differed  in  no  degree  from  the 
Society  for  the  Prevention  of  Cruelty  to  Animals 
with  respect  to  the  barbarity  of  the  process.  "  Yet," 
he  added,  "  we  should  be  cautious,  while  we  con- 


DEGBKES   OP  CRUELTY.  267 

demn  the  inhumanity,  how  we  censure  the  wisdom 
of  the  practice.     It  might  impart  a  gusto." 

At  present,  none  but  a  rashly-daring  man  would 
venture  to  defend  our  ancestors'  flagellatory  treat- 
ment of  the  young  pig,  whose  flesh  was  by  nature 
BuflSiciently  soft  and  soluble.  But  in  judging  their 
equally  repulsive  treatment  of  the  ox,  we  should 
remember  the  toughness  and  hardness  of  the 
animals  that  they  worried  into  tenderness.  The 
beef  of  "  Old  England"  lacked  the  juicy  richness 
and  delicacy  of  the  modern  sirloin.  Operating  on 
creatures  that  bore  little  resemblance  to  the  high- 
bred, stall-fed  brutes  of  the  Smithfield  Cattle  Show, 
the  butchers  of  olden  England  would  have  lost  their 
customers  had  they  refused  to  worry  their  oxen  with 
buU-dogs. 

The  same  apology  cannot  be  made  for  cruelties- 
still  perpetrated  by  dealers  in  meat.  When  we  are 
virtuously  indignant  with  the  bull-baiters  of  former 
time,  who  were  cruel  for  the  sake  of  texture,  we 
should  reserve  some  of  our  wrath  for  the  wretches 
who,' to  this  day,  are  far  more  cruel  for  the  sake  of 
colour.  To  produce  a  veal  of  excellent  whiteness, 
it  is  still  the  brutal  custom  of  butchers  in  some 
parts  of  England  to  kill  young  calves  by  flogging 
them. 

Even  Monsieur  Louis  Eustache  Tide  would  have 
conceded  that  the  attainment  of  a  superior  colour 


268  A   BOOK   ABOUT   THE   TABLE. 

in  a  viand  was  no  sufl&cient  object  to  justify  the 
infliction  of  extreme  torture  on  a  helpless  animal. 
According  to  this  Frenchman  any  cruelty  was  per- 
missible, and  even  commendable,  in  cookery  that 
was  conducive  to  health  or  the  palate's  gratification. 
But  he  went  no  further.  In  his  receipt  for  a 
"  matelotte  of  eels"  he  says  lightly  and  concisely, 
"  Take  one  or  two  live  eels.  Throw  them  into  the 
fire.  As  they  are  twisting  about  on  all  sides,  lay 
hold  of  them  with  a  towel  in  your  hand,  and  skin 
them  from  head  to  tail.  This  method  is  best,  as  it 
is  the  means  of  drawing  out  the  oil,  which  is  un- 
palatable." Assailed  by  an  Edinburgh  Keviewer 
and  other  critics  for  the  apparent  cruelty  of  this 
precept,  Tide  defended  himself  in  the  seventh 
edition  of  the  "  French  Cook"  by  remarking,  in  a 
note,  "  Several  gentlemen  have  accused  me  of 
cruelty  for  recommending  in  my  work  that  eels 
should  be  burnt  alive.  As  my  knowledge  of  cookery 
is  entirely  devoted  to  the  gratification  of  their  taste, 
and  the  preservation  of  their  health,  I  consider  it 
my  duty  to  attend  to  what  is  essential  to  both. 
The  blue  skin  and  the  oil,  which  remain  when  they 
are  skinned,  are  highly  indigestible.  If  any  gentle- 
man or  lady  should  make  the  trial  of  both,  they 
will  find  that  the  burnt  ones  are  much  healthier ; 
but  it  is,  after  all,  left  to  their  choice  whether  to 
burn  or  skin."     It  is  clear  on  which  side  Monsieur 


HALF-AND-HALF.  269 

Ude  would  have  spoken  and  voted  had  he  taken 
part  in  the  discussion  on  the  propriety  of  whipping 
pigs  to  death.  By  the  way  Monsieur  Ude,  in  his 
youth,  was  designed  for  the  Church,  and  had  re- 
ceived the  first  elements  of  a  clerical  education. 

But  enough  for  the  present  of  processes  that  are 
no  less  revolting  than  singular.  To  relieve  him  o£ 
disgust  occasioned  by  recent  recitals,  let  the  next 
few  pages  entertain  the  reader  with  dishes  that  are 
curious  without,  at  the  same  time,  being  cruel. 

When  he  told  his  readers  how  Archestratus,  the 
Syracusan,  used  to  cook  a  pig  so  that  it  was  roasted 
on  the  one  half  and  boiled  on  the  other,  Isaac 
Disraeli  was  not  aware  that  an  earlier  writer  had 
given  even  more  precise  directions  for  the  same 
culinary  achievement.  In  the  ninth  book  of  the 
**  Deipnosophistae,"  Athenaeus  describes  how  a  hog 

may  be  served,  with  one  half  well  roasted  and  the 

« 

other  delicately  boiled.  Dishes  of  this  kind  were  in 
high  favour  with  the  ancient  epicures,  and  the  taste 
for  them  was  transmitted  by  the  gourmands  of  the 
Roman  Empire  to  the  mediaeval  gastronomers. 
They  were,  also,  occasionally  seen  on  the  tables  of 
our  ancestors  in  Charles  the  Second's  time. 

Together  with  Athenaeus's  receipt  for  thus  trifling 
with  the  sublime  grandeur  of  a  boar,  Baptista 
Porta,  in  the  "  Natural  Magick,"  gives  directions  for 
cooking    poultry   and    fish   in   the   same  fantastic 


270  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE, 

manner.  He  instructed  the  chefs  of  the  sixteenth 
century  how  to  fry,  boil,  and  roast  a  lamprey  all  at 
once,  and  how  to  surprise  a  novice  in  gastronomy 
with  a  capon,  one  half  roasted,  and  the  other  half 
boiled.  To  accomplish  this  last-named  exploit,  the 
cook  had  only  to  lay  a  properly-dressed  capon  on 
its  side  in  a  rather  deep  dish,  add  broth  till  the 
liquor  rose  over  the  lower  half  of  the  fowl,  and  then 
put  the  vessel  into  the  oven.  **The  upper  part 
of  the  capon,"  says  the  author,  "  will  be  roasted  by 
the  heat  of  the  oven,  and  the  under  part  will  be 
boiled.     Nor  will  it  be  less  pleasant  to  behold." 

When  he  had  feasted  to  excess  on  birds  and 
beasts  cooked  thus  curiously,  the  gourmand  of 
Charles  the  Second's  time  was  in  a  condition  to 
derive  benefit  from  the  stomach-brush  or  "pro- 
vang,"  which  Judge  Rumsey  of  Gray's  Inn  con- 
trived, during  the  Commonwealth,  for  the  season- 
able relief  of  gentlemen  who  had  overeaten  them- 
selves. Mentioned  in  the  "  Book  about  Doctors," 
this  elegant  invention  is  also  described  in  a  number 
of  the  GentlemarCs  Magazine  for  1750,  where  the 
inquirer  may,  moreover,  find  a  picture  of  the  ap- 
paratus. But  no  student  who  would  fully  under- 
stand the  inventor's  "  instrument  to  cleanse  the 
stomack,"  and  ascertain  the  conditions  most  favour- 
able for  its  efficacious  use,  should  fail  to  peruse  the 
."  Organon    Salutis"    (1657),    wherein    the  Judge 


A  NEAT   LITTLE   INVENTION.  271 

commends  his  harmless  and  convenient  brush  as  a 
substitute  for  the  perilous  emetics  of  the  apothecary. 
It  is,  he  observes,  "  a  whalebone  instrument,  which 
may  be  made  from  two  foot  in  length  or  more  to  a 
yard  long,  after  this  form,  to  be  used  for  all  ages, 
according  to  the  stature  of  their  bodies.  It  may  be 
made  after  the  form  of  a  long  feather  out  of  a 
goose- wing,  with  a  small  button  of  fine  linen  or 
silk,  to  the  bignesse  of  a  cherrystone,  fastened  at 
one  end,  which  goeth  into  the  body,  and  with  a 
string  fastened  at  the  other  end,  that  a  man  may 
use  and  draw  it  out  at  pleasure.  These  are  com- 
monly sold  in  London,  and  especially  at  the  long 
shops  in  Westminster  HalL  If  it  be  kept  in  water, 
it  will  be  as  gentle  as  may  be  desired.  It  must  be 
stirred  gently,  and  always  used  after  some  meat 
and  drink,  as  any  man  liketh  best,  and  findeth 
occasion  for  it." 

For  fear  of  shocking  the  polite  reader,  the  present 
writer  forbears  to  recite  Judge  Rumsey's  minuter 
directions  for  the  use  of  the  brush,  which,  strange  to 
say,  proved  less  agreeable  to  epicures  than  the  con- 
triver hoped  it  would  be.  "  Sir,  I  have  tried  your 
sherry,  and  I  prefer  the  gout,''  the  last  Lord  Derby 
replied  to  the  puflBng  wine-merchant,  who  had  sent 
him  a  simple  of  **  pure  unbrandied  sherry,"  of 
which  it  was  asserted  the  Earl  might  drink  two 
bottles  a-day  without  provoking  an  attack  of  his 


272  A    BOOK   ABOUT   THE   TABLE. 

podagra.  The  epicures  took  the  same  view  of  Judge 
Rumsey's  "  first  remedy :  the  provang."  Having 
tried  it,  and  even  praised  it  into  transient  fashion, 
they  preferred  dyspepsia,  tempered  by  old-fashioned 
emetics,  notwithstanding  the  obvious  disadvantages 
of  the  ancient  medicines.  "  My  dear  doctor,"  an 
Irish  gentleman  observed  to  Dr.  Babbington,  "  it  is 
of  no  use  your  giving  me  an  emetic.  I  tried  it 
twice  in  Dublin,  and  it  would  not  stay  on  my 
stomach  either  time." 

The  men  who  made  trial  of  Judge  Rumsey's 
stomach-brush  belonged  to  a  generation  of  daring 
and  self-sacrificing  experimentalists.  Some  of  them 
would  "  swallow  small  white  pebble  stones,  to  cool 
the  heat  of  their  stomachs,  which,"  adds  the  wit- 
nessing inventor  of  the  provang,  "  I  conceive  to 
be  in  imitation  of  long- winged  hawks."  Others  of 
them  cooled  their  coppers  with  leaden  bullets.  "  I 
have  known  others,"  says  Judge  Rumsey,  "  that 
used  to  swallow  small  bullets  of  lead,  which  giveth 
me  occasion  to  report  a  strange  history  which  I 
know  to  be  true.  An  old  souldier  and  commander 
in  Queen  Elizabeth's  time,  in  the  Low  Countries, 
was  drinking  of  healths  among  his  companions,  and 
at  every  health  did  drink  a  pistol  bullet  to  the 
number  of  eighteen,  which  continued  in  his  belly 
for  neer  the  space  of  two  years.  He  acquainted  a 
physition  with  his  case,  who  did  hang  the  souldier 


STRANGE    STORIES.  273 

by  the  heels,  by  a  beam  in  a  chamber,  and  then  all 
the  bullets  dropped  out  of  his  mouth  again  ;  but  the 
same  were  somewhat  worn  in  his  belly.  The  souldier 
is  yet  living,  and,  in  good  health,  and  about  fore- 
score  and  ten  years  of  age." 

The  Younger  Brunei  (Isambart  Kingdom)  was 
amusing  his  children  with  conjuring  tricks,  when  he 
slipped  into  his  mouth  a  half-sovereign,  that,  enter- 
ing his  gullet,  lodged  there  for  a  few  days.  To 
relieve  the  engineer  of  his  sufferings,  his  physicians 
caused  him  to  be  raised  from  his  sofa,  feet  upwards 
and  head  downwards,  when  the  coin  dropped  through 
the  patient's  mouth  to  the  floor.  Mr.  Brunei's  mis- 
adventure has  been  thought  a  singular  case.  But 
it  is  a  trivial  affair  in  comparison  with  the  case  of 
Judge  Rumsey's  soldier.  Sceptics  will  probably 
reject  the  lawyer's  story  as  a  fiction.  The  reader 
may  be  left  to  decide  between  the  judge  and  his 
censors. 


voii.  I.  T 


274 

N^ of Judge 

"^Having 


CHAPTER  XVI. 

NUMBERS    AT    TABLE. 

"  Terna  tibi  hasc  primnm  triplici  diversa  colore 
Licia  circumdo,  terque  hsao  altaria  circiim 
Effigiem  duoo,  Namero  Deus  impare  gaudet." 

Vide  Virgil,  Ecl.  viii. 

"  Crowd  not  your  table,  let  your  number  be 
Not  more  than  seven,  and  never  less  than  three." 

Dr.  King's  "  Art  of  Cookery." 

"The  more  the  merrier,  the  fewer  the  better  cheer, — ^Two  are 
company,  three  are  none." — Old  Proverbs, 

"Que  le  nombre  des  convives  n'exc^de  pas  douze,  afin  que  la 
conversation  pqisse  6tre  constamment  g^n^rale." — Brillat-Savarin's 
"Phtsiologie  du  Gout." 

"  En  France  tons  les  nombres  sont  bons,  hors  le  nombre  treize." 
— ^Alexandre  Dumas'  "  Dictionnaire  de  Cutsine." 

rpHOTJGH  epicures  differ  as  to  tbo  best  number  of 
J-  guests  for  an  agreeable  dinner,  they  are 
unanimous  in  holding  that  no  party,  with  enjoyment 
for  its  sole  object,  should  be  too  numerous  for 
general  conversation.  Like  the  best  authorities  of 
ancient  Rome,  on  matters  pertaining  to  the  table, 
some  of  the  most  eminent  Amphitryons  of  modern 
England  have  insisted  that  dinner  should  never  be 
served  for  less  than  three  persons,  the  number  of 


^ 


V 


NUMBERS   FOR   ENJOYMENT.  275 

by  the  heels  -'®'  ^^  ^^^  more  than  nine,  the  number  of 
the  bullet  ''*®®'  ^^'  ^i^g>  Swift's  friend,  and  the  author 
same  w  ^^®  ^^^  ^^  Cookery/'  thought  nine  too  many 
^g  ^^  two  for  perfect  enjoyment.  In  his  opinion,  the 
gj.  feasters  at  a  banquet  should  never  be  so  few  as  two 
or  exceed  the  number  of  the  days  in  a  week. 
Grimod  de  la  Reyni^re's  favourite  number  was  three, 
but  he  allowed  it  to  be  raised  to  six,  which  no 
dinner  party  ought,  in  his  opinion,  to  exceed  under 
any  circumstances.  "Les  diners  fins  se  font  en 
petites  comit^s.  Et  comme  une  fricassee  de  poulets 
ne  sauroit  etre  parfaite  si  Ton  met  plus  de  trois,  de 
meme  un  repas  de  foncfe  amateurs  ne  doit  exc6der 
six  converts." 

Twelve  has,  however,  been  declared  a  permissible 
number  by  the  finest  gourmands  of  modern  Prance 
and  modern  England.  Brillat-Savarin  and  Alex- 
andre Dumas  insist  that,  though  less  desirable  than 
a  smaller  party,  a  dinner  of  twelve  maybe  altogether 
successful. 

The  largeness  of  the  number  does  not  preclude 
general  conversation,  when  each  member  of  the 
assembly  is  careful  to  address  the  company  rather 
than  his  next  neighbour,  and  talks  for  the  general 
,  enjoyment  rather  than  his  own  pleasure.  But 
^  though  it  is  possible  for  a  speaker  to  make 
himself  heard  over  a  table  of  twelve  without 
raising  his  voice  to  the  pitch  of  declamation,  or  to 

T  2 


276  A   BOOK   ABOUT   THE   TABLE. 

any  oflfensive  loudness,  an  animated  talker  is  apt  to 
become  too  noisy  and  oratorical  at  so  large  a  meet- 
ing. The  conversational  competition  of  twelve 
persons  too  often  begets  the  clamorous  contention 
that  puts  an  end  to  sociable  gossip,  and  is  more 
prejudicial  than  any  other  disturbing  influence  to 
gastronomic  enjoyment.  With  due  respect  to  the 
many  eminent  feeders  who  have  spoken  of  the 
number  with  approval  or  toleration,  it  may  be 
questioned  whether  so  many  as  a  dozen  persons 
should  ever  be  invited  to  the  dinner,  which  is  de- 
signed for  something  better  than  formal  and  cere- 
monious hospitality. 

Two  will  always  remain  with  high  epicures  the  best 
of  all  social  numbers  for  an  artistic  regalement.  More 
secure  from  disturbing  incidents  than  any  higher 
number,  it  is  especially  favourable  to  gastronomic 
sympathy  and  the  poetry  of  feeding.  Especially 
conducive  to  mutual  coniidence  and  the  enthusiasm 
of  friendship,  the  tete-a-tete  dinner  is  distinguished 
by  an  almost  sacred  repose.  Lord  Barrymore  and 
his  Jacobite  physician.  Dr.  Beauford,  had  no  need 
to  talk  of  their  devotion  to  the  Pretender,  when 
they  exchanged  looks  of  ecstasy  and  unalterable 
aflfection  over  their  choicest  dishes. 

"  You  know  Lord  Barrymore  ?"  Dr.  Beauford 
was  asked  during  his  examination  by  the  Lords  of 
the  Privy  Council. 


SAFETY   IN   TWO,  277 

"Intimately,  most  intimately,"  replied  the 
Doctor. 

"  You  are  continually  with  him  ?"  urged  the 
questioner. 

"We  dine  together,"  was  the  answer,  "almost 
daily  when  his  lordship  is  in  town." 

"  What  do  you  talk  about?" 

"  Eating  and  drinking." 

"  And  what  else  ?" 

"  Oh,  my  lord,  we  never  talk  of  anything  except 
eating  and  drinking,  drinking  and  eating." 

Of  what  else  should  two  wise  and  delicate  feasters 
speak  at  a  tete-ct-tete  meal  ?  To  them  the  subject 
comprehends  the  whole  domain  of  the  higher 
interests.  Together  with  the  generous  emotions, 
it  covers  politics,  philosophy  and  art.  Moreover, 
for  such  fervid  politicians  as  our  lord  and  his 
doctor,  two  is  an  agreeably  safe  number  at  table, 
should  the  talk  run  into  politics  and  treason.  The 
law  of  England  declares  three  persons,  at  least,  to 
be  requisite  for  a  conspiracy.  And  even  moralists 
have  held  that  a  man  may  defend  himself  against^ 
a  treacherous  comrade,  by  repudiating  as  false  the 
traitor's  true  report  of  words  interchanged  "  under 
the  rose"  of  social  confidence. 

Perfect  harmony  is  endangered  by  the  introduc- 
tion of  a  third  person.  In  compliment  to  the 
Graces,   the  Fates,    and   possibly  the  Furies,  the 


278  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

ancients  were  frequent  givers  of  dinners  for  three. 
When  LucuUus,  Cicero,  and  Pompey  dined  together 
in  the  Chamber  of  Apollo,  at  a  cost  of  seventy-five 
thousand  sesterces,  they  had  a  perfect  menu ;  but 
the  felicity  of  the  meeting  scarcely  equalled  that  of 
LucuUus's  dinners  with  himself,  or  Lord  Barry- 
more's  tete-a-tete  "  feeds"  with  his  congenial  doctor. 
The  traitor  at  a  tete-h-tete  repast  may  be  defeated 
with  permissible  perjury  ;  but  disastrous  truth  may 
be  established  out  of  the  mouths  of  two  '  witnesses 
who,  on  leaving  a  dinner  of  three,  combine  to 
hand  their  common  associate  over  to  his  political 
adversaries.  When  he  has  decided  to  ask  a  third, 
Amphitryon  had  better  invito  a  fourth  guest.  Har- 
mony is  exposed  to  less  peril  by  the  fourth  than  by 
the  third.  If  the  third  possesses  any  unamiable  pro- 
pensity, it  may  be  corrected  by  a  contrary  dispo- 
sition in  the  fourth.  Moreover,  with  four  at  table, 
dinner  may  be  followed  by  whist,  a  game  beloved 
by  gastronomers  beyond  all  other  games. 

For  a  festal  meeting  of  philosophers,  five  is 
the  fittest  of  all  numbers.  Unproductive  in 
addition — (five+five  equals  ten,  i.e.,  equals  only 
one  cypher) — the  number,  which  symbolizes 
virginity,  is  sacred  to  Minerva,  whose  festival, 
the  Quinquatrus,  began  on  the  fifth  day  after 
the  Ides  of  March,  and  in  the  time  of  Ovid 
lasted   for  five   days.      Cognizant   of  these  facts. 


• 


MEETINGS   OF   THE    SEXES.  279 

the  Fellows  of  our  Royal  Society  should  relinquish 
the  periodical  dinners  of  their  entire  brotherhood, 
and  blush  to  dine  together  in  any  number  exceeding 
Minerva's   symbol.     In    further    commendation   of 
five  as  the  number  for  a  dinner  of  savants,  it  should 
be  observed  that  it  is  admirable  for  the  purposes  of 
scientific    discussion.      Whilst   five  learned   minds 
are  enough  for  the  ventilation  of  nice  questions  of 
science,  a  party  of  that  number  is  less  likely  than  a 
larger  assembly  to  be  guilty  of  such  exhibitions  of 
animosity   as   sometimes    disturb    the    serenity   of 
philosophers  in  debate.     Moreover,  it   is  well  for 
learned  men  to  assemble  in  an  uneven  number,  so 
that  the  functions  of  moderator  may  be  discharged 
by  an   "odd  man,"  who,   voting   only  when   the 
disputants  on  both  sides  of  an  argument  are  equal, 
may  determine  even  controversies  by  a  dispassionate 
casting  vote. 

But  whether  they  are  philosophers  of  many 
"ologies,"  or  epicures  whose  one  philosophy  has 
reference  to  the  enjoyments  of  the  table,  six 
(Grimod  de  la  Reyniere's  number)  is  better  than 
five  for  a  party  consisting  of  representatives  of  both 
sexes.  When  the  sexes  meet  at  the  social  board 
they  should  be  equally  matched — at  least,  in  num- 
ber. They  should  ajso  be  arranged  so  that 
their  alternation  is  complete.  The  man  is  never 
altogether  content  at   a   dinner-table  who,   with  a 


280  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

lady  next  him  on  one  side,  has  a  man  for  his  other 
neighbour.  It  is  even  worse  when  two  of  the 
gentler  sex  are  seated  together.  Like  a  swimmer 
with  one  arm  tied,  and  therefore  powerless  to  use 
the  other  effectively,  the  woman  who  is  denied  the 
stimulus  of  a  flirtation  on  her  left  hand  can  seldom 
flirt  brilliantly  and  consistently  with  her  partner  on 
the  right.  For  this  reason,  eight  and  twelve  are 
inconvenient  numbers  for  a  party  of  both  sexes  at 
an  oblong  table,  with  the  hostess  at  the  top  and  the 
host  at  the  bottom,  after  the  old  fashion. 

Seven,  the  mystic  number  with  which  the  ancient 
Egyptians  divided  time  into  weeks,  has  several 
claims  to  consideration  as  the  proper  force  of  cele- 
brants for  a  festal  exercise.  Whilst  the  dinner,  a 
noble  work,  reminds  one  of  the  greatest  of  all  crea- 
tive achievements,  it  may  be  well  that  the  number 
of  the  guests  should  equal  the  six  days  of  productive 
labour  and  the  one  day  of  rest.  With  Dr.  King,  as 
we  have  already  seen,  seven  was  a  maximum  num- 
ber  for  a  banquet  of  wits.  And  certainly  the  number 
is  quite  enough  for  an  assembly  of  "  wits,"  all  over- 
flowing with  raillery,  and  more  ready  to  talk  than 
to  listen.  Bedlam  on  visiting-day,  at  the  full  of  the 
mooii  (as  it  was  in  the  old  time  when  the  moon  still 
affected  the  phrenzies  of  lunatics),  would  be  less 
deafening  than  a  meeting  of  twelve  such  table- 
talkers   as  Sydney  Smith.     The   thunder-storm  of 


"  OCTAVES."  281 

such  a  meeting  would  burst  and  spend  itself  without 
any  **  brilliant  flashes  of  silence." 

Far  better  than  seven,  for  a  meeting  of  both 
sexes,  and  not  too  many  for  a  small  dining-room, 
eight  is  not  a  number  to  be  shut  out  of  respectful 
consideration  by  a  pedantic  reiteration  of  Dr.  King's 
precept.  It  is  much  in  its  favour  that  it  is  the 
favourite  number  of  one  of  our  most  enlightened 
epicures,  a  man  scarcely  less  honourably  known  in 
literature  and  the  arts  than  in  the  profession  of 
which  he  is  a  brilliant  leader.  After  much  conside- 
ration and  experience  in  hospitable  labours,  this 
consummate  entertainer  insists  that,  whilst  eight  is 
neither  too  many  nor  too  few  for  the  requirements 
of  social  intercourse,  it  had  several  economical  re- 
commendations. A  dinner  for  eight  is  so  easily 
managed  in  the  kitchen  that  the  chef  can  give  the 
proper  amount  of  personal  attention  to  each  item  of 
the  menu,  and  is  pot  compelled  to  expend  his  powers 
on  the  chief  works  of  the  menu  to  the  prejudice 
of  subordinate,  though  important,  dishes.  More- 
over, a  bottle  of  wine,  distributed  by  a  judicious 
butler,  gives  eight  glasses,  a  fact  that  of  itself  com- 
mends the  number  to  the  Amphitryon  whose  wines 
are  curious  and  costly,  and  who  never  sends  the 
same  wine  twice  round  his  table.  Anyhow,  the 
"  octaves"  of  this  entertainer  are  so  successful  and 


99 


282  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

famous  that  they  have  given  the  dinner  of  eight  a 
new  place  in  epicurean  annals. 

Besides  commemorating  the  Muses,  nine  possesses 
in  an  especial  degree  the  luck  which  folk-lore  has 
for  centuries  assigned  to  odd  numbers.    "  I'll  hold, 
says  Falstaff  in  the  *' Merry  Wives  of  Windsor, 
"  this   is  the  third  time  :  I  hope,  good  luck  lies  in 
odd  numbers.      Away,  go ;    they   say,   there   is   a 
divinity  in  odd  numbers,  either  in  nativity,  chance, 
or  death."     If  three  was  lucky,  much  more  so  was 
three  times  three.     The  decalogue  is  honoured  by 
the  feast  for  ten  persons.     Eleven,  an  odd  number, 
covers  the  ten  commandments  and  the  precept  of 
mutual  love.     Mention  has  been  made  of  twelve. 
A  questionable  number,  it  is  too  good  to  be  re- 
jected, and  not  good  enough  to  be  accepted,  without 
a  murmur.     Just  not  too  many  for  sociability  under 
favourable  conditions,  twelve  are  barely  enough  for 
pomp  and  ceremonious  grandeur.     When  it  com- 
prises four  persons  ambitious  of  leading  the  con- 
versation, the  party  of  twelve  is  often  unmanage- 
able ;  and  when  found  too  large  for  general  gossip, 
it  is  also  found  too  small  for  subdivisions  into  knots 
and  coteries.     Still,  in  spite  of  its  disadvantages,  it 
ranks  among  the  sociable  numbers. 

To  speak  of  the  difficulty  of  placing  guests,  is  to 
think  of  the  different  shapes  of  the  table.  For  the 
grand  dinner  of  two  dozen  or   thirty  guests,    no 


SHAPING   THE   BOARD.  283 

board  ia  better  than  the  oblong  table.  Larger 
banquets  require  the  horse-shoe  board,  or  one  of  the 
several  combinations  of  long  tables — the  L,  the  H, 
or  the  Pi  table.  For  smaller  parties  the  circular 
table  is  excellent.  But  it  is  inconvenient  for  a  com- 
pany exceeding  twelve;  the  circle,  whose  circum- 
ference aflFords  ample  space  for  eighteen  guests, 
being  so  large  that  each  sitter  is  at  a  most  unsocial 
distance  from  his  diametrically  opposed  fellow^- 
guest,  whilst  the  middle  of  the  board,  lying  beyond 
reach  of  hands,  is  so  much  useless  area.  King 
Arthur's  round  table  was  a  mythical  impossibility. 
The  oval  table  has  all  the  advantages,  while  avoiding 
the  disadvantages,  of  the  circular  board.  The  full- 
sized  square  table  is  best  for  a  party  of  eight.  By 
the  way,  "  square  meals  '*  is  an  American  collo- 
quialism for  meals  taken  at  table,  in  contradistinc- 
tion to  "  snacks"  taken  from  a  buflFet.  The  rect- 
angular table  should  always  be  so  large  that  two 
persons  may  sit  in  line  at  the  top  and  two  side  by 
side  at  the  bottom ;  and,  for  reasons  already  indi- 
cated, at  a  party  of  eight  or  twelve  persons,  taken 
in  equal  numbers  from  both  sexes,  either  end  of  the 
table  should  be  occupied  by  a  gentlewoman  and  her 
cavalier.  The  Amphitryon  whose  dining-room  is 
too  narrow  for  such  table,  or  whose  rectangular 
table  is  too  narrow  to  admit  of  such  an  arrangement, 
should  compass  a  perfect  alternation  of  the  sexes  by 


284  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLK. 

putting  a  man  at  either  end  of  the  board.  It  is  no 
longer  a  point  of  dignity  with  a  lady  to  sit  at  the 
upper  end  of  her  own  table. 

A  word  on  the  woods  of  which  dining-tables  may 
be  made.  Rose-wood,  walnut,  maple — indeed,  any 
wood  that  takes  a  good  polish,  and  by  its  colour 
pleases  the  eye, — may  be  used  for  other  furniture  ; 
but  in  England  oak  and  mahogany  are  the  woods 
for  the  festal  table.  "  The  old  tree"  of  the  olden 
English  was  invariably  an  oak ;  but  in  later  times  it 
has  been  generally  supplanted  by  the  mahogany, 
which  came  into  vogue  in  the  days  of  Anne  and  her 
nearest  successor.  Dr.  Gibbons,  the  physician 
whom  Dr.  Radcliffe  detested,  and  nick-named 
"  Nurse  Gibbons,*'  may  be  thanked  for  the  warm- 
coloured  wood  with  which  we  have  so  many  agree- 
able associations.  His  brother,  a  West  Indian 
captain,  brought  over  some  of  the  wood  as  ballast, 
thinking  it  might  possibly  turn  to  account  in  the 
London.  At  first  the  carpenters,  in  a  truly  con- 
servative spirit,  refused  to  have  anything  to  do  with 
the  "  new  wood,"  saying  it  was  too  hard  for  their 
tools.  Dr.  Gibbons,  however,  had  first  a  candle- 
box,  and  then  a  bureau  made  for  Mrs.  Gibbons  out 
of  the  condemned  material.  The  bureau  so  pleased 
his  friends,  amongst  whom  was  the  Duchess  of 
Buckingham,  that  Her  Grace  ordered  a  similar 
piece  of  furniture,   and  introduced    the  wood  into 


IN    HIS   LONELESS.  285 

high  life,  where  it  quickly  became  the  fashion.  Ere 
long  the  wood  of  the  warm  hue  and  brilliant 
"polish"  was  seen  in  every  dining-room  of  good 
society ;  and  in  order  that  they  might  see  their  glass 
and  plate  reflected  on  the  lustrous  surface  of  their 
mahogany,  epicures  ordered  the  cloth  to  be  removed 
before  the  after-service  or  dessert.  Thus  the  new 
wood,  having  put  conservative  oak  into  disfavour, 
introduced  a  new  table-fashion. 

Much  may  be  said  in  behalf  of  solitary  dinners. 
If  two  is  the  number  of  social  confidence  and  se- 
curity, one  is  the  number  of  t^nsocial  safety.  In 
troublous  times  the  wretch  who  can  trust  no  one 
does  well  to  dine  alone.  The  secrets  which  a  man 
confides  to  himself  at  a  lonely  regalement  are  in  his 
6wn  keeping,  and  it  is  only  by  his  own  act  that 
they  can  be  brought  in  evidence  against  him.  Even 
more  than  two,  one  is  a  number  favourable  to  har- 
mony. The  man  who  can  agree  with  no  one  else  may 
at  least  be  able  to  think  well  of  himself.  He  can 
approve  his  own  arguments  when  there  is  none  to 
oppose  them,  and  applaud  the  jeux  cCesprit  of  which 
he  is  the  creator  and  sole  recipient.  Two  has  been  de- 
clared company,  when  three  may  be  no  such  thing ; 
but  to  certain  natures  two  at  a  table  is  one  too  many, 
whilst  one  at  a  feast  is  the  perfection  of  companion- 
ship. "  There  is  society  where  noise  intrudes,"  and 
epicures   have  declared   that   this   society   is   best 


286  A   BOOK   ABOUT   THE   TABLE. 

cultivated  at  a  sybaritic  board.  Of  course  the  man 
may  be  found  who,  shunning  all  men,  thinks  meanly  of 
himself.  But  the  anchorite  who,  in  his  solitude, 
quarrels  with  himself  is  a  prodigy  of  captiousness 
and  self-hatred  that  defies  consideration.  Ceasing 
to  dine,  he  should  starve  himself  out  of  existence  as 
soon  as  possible. 

LucuUus  never  dined  more  sumptuously  than  when 
he  dined  alone.  All  readers  remember  how  he 
upbraided  his  chef  for  serving  him  a  cheap  repast 
(costing  about  £100  of  English  money)  when 
"  LucuUus  dined  with  LucuUus,"  and  no  one  else. 
Equally  great  as  a  consumer  and  a  composer,  Haydn 
liked  to  dine  alone  and  eat  much.  It  was  his 
custom  to  order  dinner  for  five  at  his  favourite 
hotel,  and  at  the  appointed  hour  to  devour  the 
whole  banquet.  "  Serve  dinner,"  he  said  on  one 
occasion  to  a  new  waiter,  who  was  not  aware  of  the 
musician's  way  of  sustaining  himself.  *'  The  dinner 
is  ready,"  returned  the  waiter,  bowing  respectfully 
to  the  hotel's  best  customer,  "  but.  Sir,  the  company 
//,/!      »  •       is  not  come."      "  De   gompany  1"    Haydn   retorted 

contemptuously.  "  Pooh  !  de  gompany  !  1  am  de 
gompany."  The  dinner  for  five  was  forthwith  put 
before  "  de  gompany,"  and  not  an  eatable  scrap  of 
it  found  its  way  back  to  the  kitchen.  Haydn's 
ducal  contemporary  of  Norfolk  was  another  lordly 
feeder,  who  delighted    to  eat  at  a  Coven t  Garden 


/, 


ENOUGH   FOB   ONE.  287 

tavern    food    enough    for   five    ordinary    feasters. 
But  the  duke,  more  sensitive  of  observation  than 
the  musician,  never  again  dined  five  times  at  once 
in  the  hotel  where  his  gastronomic  capabilities  had 
caused    the   waiter  to    regard    him   with   obvious 
amazement.     The   Cur^  de  Brequier,  immortalized 
by  Brillat-Savarin,  was  another  solitary  diner,  who 
could  eat  at  a  sitting  as  much  food  as  would  keep 
a  working  man  in  vigour  for  ten    days.     The  re- 
verend gentleman  could  refresh  himself  thus  liberally 
under    observant    eyes    with    perfect    composure. 
Brillat-Savarin  once  saw  him,  in  less  than  three- 
quarters  of  an  hour,  sweep  into  his  stomach  a  quart 
of  soup,  a  plate  of  bouilli,  a  large  leg  of  mutton,  a 
superb  ham,  a  copious  salad,  a  pound  or  two  of 
cheese,  a  prodigious  quantity  of  bread,  a  bottle  of 
water,  a  full  bottle  of  wine,  and  a  cup  of  cofffee. 
**  Apres  quoif^*  says  the  narrator  of  this  exploit,  "  il 
86  reposal      Severely  accurate,  Brillat-Savarin   is 
careful  to  state  that  the  cur^  did  not  eat  either  the 
ham-bone  or  the  bone  of  the  gigoL 

A  dinner  less  remarkable  for  grandeur,  but 
famous  for  the  humour  of  its  eater,  was  consumed 
by  the  President  of  the;  Tribunal  at  Avignon. 

"  By  my  faith,"  said  this  excellent  judge  of  law 
and  good  cheer  to  an  interested  auditor,  "  we  have 
just  had  a  superb  turkey.  It  was  excellent,  stuffed 
to  the  beak  with  truffles,  tender  as  a  chicken,  fat  as 


288  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

an  ortolan,  aromatic  as  a  thrush.  By  my  faith,  we 
left  nothing  but  its  bones  !" 

"  And  how  many  were  there  of  you  ?"  inquired 
the  curious  hearer. 

"  Only  two,"  answered  the  gourmand,  with  a  self- 
complaisant  smile. 

"  Only  two  ?"  ejaculated  the  simple  auditor,  with 
amazement. 

"  Precisely  so,"  the  lawyer  answered ;  "  only  two. 
There  was  myself  and  there  was — the  turkey." 

This  judge  was  a  man  of  infinite  jest ;  but  in 
gluttonous  ability  he  was  surpassed  by  an  English- 
man of.letters  and  politics,  who  at  his  solitary  dinner 
in  an  Old  Bailey  beef  shop  ate  seven  pounds  and  a 
half  of  solid  meat,  sliced  from  a  round  of  boiled 
beef.  As  his  customer  ate,  the  keeper  of  the  shop 
regarded  him  with  increasing  anger ;  for  diners  at 
the  establishment  were  at  liberty  to  eat  as  much  as 
they  pleased  for  a  stated  sum. 

"  Capital  beef,"  said  the  gourmand  graciously, 
when  he  at  length  rose  from  his  seat,  *'  a  man  may 
cut  and  come  again  here." 

*'  You  may  cut,  Sir,"  responded  the  purveyor  of 
dinners,  "  but  Fll  be  blowed  if  you  shall  come  again." 

The  story  went  about  the  town,  and  in  its  travels 
encountered  the  famous  caricaturist,  who  retold  it  in 
a  familiar  cartoon,  which  gave  the  Reverend  Row- 
land Hill  his  irreverent  simile  for  the  divine  grace. 


FATHER   AND   SON.  289 

"  The  grace  of  God,'*  said  the  jocular  but  earnest 
preacher  to  the  congregation  whom  he  lured  heaven- 
wards with  pleasantries,  "is  like  a  round  of  beef; 
you  may  cut  and  come  again." 

If  historians  may  be  believed,  Grimod  de  la 
Reynifere— the  editor  of  the  "  Almanach  des  Gour- 
mands," and  uncle  of  the  famous  Count  d'Orsay — 
had  a  son  worthy  of  his  epicurean  father.  Travel- 
ling towards  Paris,  Grimod  de  la  Reynifere  (p^re) 
alighted  from  his  carriage  at  the  entrance  of  a  pro- 
vincial hotel,  with  an  appetite  that  demanded  im- 
mediate aqd  copious  satisfaction. 

"  Let  me  have  for  dinner,"  he  cried,  "  everything 
good  and  eatable  in  the  house." 

"  Alas,  Sir,"  answered  the  landlord,  "  my  larder 
is  empty,  and  I  can  give  you  no  dinner." 

At  this  moment,  the  opening  of  a  door  enabled  the 
epicure  to  see  seven  turkeys  on  a  broach  before  a 
splendid  fire.  Sniffing  the  rich  savour  of  culinary 
incense  that  came  through  the  kitchen  door,  Grimod 
de  la  Reyni^re  exclaimed  indignantly, 

"  Are  you  mad  or  insolent  ?  I  see  seven  turkeys 
on  the  spit." 

Again  asserting  that  his  larder  was  empty,  the 
host  explained  that  the  seven  noble  fowls — the  only 
good  provision  of  the  house — were  on  the  point  of 
being  served  for  a  young  gentleman  who  had 
ordered  them  for  his  dinner. 

VOL.  I.  u 


290  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

"  What !  seven  turkeys  for  one  gentleman — for 
one  young  gentleman  ?"  urged  the  amazed  and 
hungry  traveller. 

"  It  is  so,"  answered  the  Boniface. 

*"  Conduct  me  to  his  chamber.  At  least  he  will 
spare  me*  one  of  his  seven  birds !"  Grimod  de  la 
Reyniere  implored. 

The  landlord  consented,  and  in  another  minute 
the  chief  illuminator  of  Parisian  gourmands  was 
bowing  courteously  to  the  youth  who,  with  the 
daring  of  his  years,  had  ordered  seven  turkeys  to 
be  cooked  for  his  solitary  meal.  The  youth  was  De 
la  Reyniere's  son. 

"What!"  cried  the  father,  angrily,  **is  it  you 
who  ordered  seven  turkeys  for  your  dinner  ?" 

"  Sire,"  said  the  son,  with  fine  emotion,  *'  pardon 
the  apparent  vulgarity  of  my  taste  and  conduct,  so 
unbecoming  in  one  who  has  the  honour  to  be  your 
offspring.  Believe' me,  I  am  the  victim  of  circum- 
stances. My  taste*,  my  hereditary  genius  impelled 
me  to  order  a  more  varied  repast.  But  the  larder 
contained  nothing,  my  host  could  give  me  nothing 
but  the  turkeys." 

"  But  why,  my  dear  boy,"  inquired  the  mollified 
parent,  "  be  so  extravagant  as  to  order  sevea 
turkeys,  when,  surely,  two  would  have  been  enough 
for  your  appetite  ?' 


'Mi 


HrSTOEIO   DOUBTS.  291 

A  smile  of  conscious  worth  and  self-respect 
brightened  the  youth's  visage,  as  he  replied, 

"  Father,  you  have  always  told  me  that  a  turkf^y 
not  stuflfed  with  truffles  comprised  no  part  save 
les-sotS'leS'laissenf^^  (Anglicey  "  oyster,''  or  "  the 
parson's  nose')  "  fit  for  a  gentleman's  plate  and 
palate.  I  ordered  the  seven  turkeys  in  order  that  I 
might  dine  off  the  fourteen  les-sotS'leS'laissent. 
What  other  course  was  open  to  me  under  the  dis- 
tressing circumstances?" 

The  father  and  son  embraced  each  other.  Two 
hours  later,  the  elder  Grimod  de  la  Reynifere  pro- 
ceeded on  his  journey  full  of  turkey  and  overflowing 
with  parental  pride. 

The  story  is  excellent ;  but  unfortunately  it  has 
been  told  of  half-a-score  fathers  and  sons,  besides 
the  two  De  la  ReyniSres.  The  careful  author  of 
**  The  Art  of  Dining"  assigns  it  to  Brillat-Savarin 
and  his  eldest  boy,  and  says  that  the  number  of 
turkeys  roasted  for  the  youthful  gourmet  did  not 
exceed  four.  Such  contradictions  bewilder  the 
simple  reader,  and  dispose  the  critic  to  regard  the 
anecdote  as  apocryphal.  The  sceptic  asks  whether 
the  editor  of  the  "  Almanach  des  Gourmands"  had 
a  son.  In  the  confusion  of  claims  and  uncertainty 
of  titles,  any  masculine  reader  of  this  page,  with 
a  son  of  suitable  age  and  taste,  is  at  liberty   to 

u  2 


/ 


292  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

appropriate  the  story  and  tell  it  of  himself  and  his 
heir. 

In  the  way  of  eating  money,  it  is  probable  that 
no  modern  epicure  has  surpassed  the  achievement 
by  which  the  Vicomte  de  Vieil-Uastel  won  a  wager 
of  five  hundred  francs,  under  the  eyes  of  half-a- 
score  Parisians  of  the  highest  fashion,  who  watched 
the  astounding  performance  with  equal  delight  and 
amazement.  Monsieur  le  Vicomte  had  undertaken 
to  consume  five  hundred  francs'  worth  of  food  and 
liquor  within  two  hours.  Of  course  he  was  allowed 
to  order  the  costly  repast.  It  consisted  of  twenty- 
four  dozen  Ostend  oysters,  thirty  francs ;  a  soup 
aux  nids  (Thirondelles^  one  hundred  and  fifty  francs ; 
a  beef-steak,  two  francs ;  a  fish  (une  ferra)  from 
the  Lake  of  Geneva,  forty  francs ;  a  pheasant  stuffed 
with  truffles,  forty  francs ;  a  salmis  of  ortolans, 
fifty  francs ;  a  dish  of  asparagus,  fifteen  francs ; 
a  plate  of  young  peas,  twelve  francs  ;  a  pine-apple, 
twenty-four  francs ;  a  dish  of  strawberries,  twenty 
francs;  a  bottle  of  Johannisberg,  twenty-four 
francs ;  two  bottles  of  Bordeaux,  fifty-fi:*ancs ;  half 
a  bottle  of  Constance,  forty  fi:'ancs ;  half  a  bottle  of 
choice  sherry,  that  had  been  to  India  and  back, 
fifty  francs;  coffee  and  liqueurs,  one  franc  fifty 
centimes ;  total,  five  hundred  and  forty-eight  francs, 
fifty  centimes.  Thus  the  cost  of  the  dinner  ex- 
cee  ded  the  stipulated  sum  by  forty-eight  francs  and 


WHEN   Ox\E    DINES   ALONE.  293 

a  Lalf.  The  victor  had  sipped  his  concluding 
liqueur  and  cafif,  and  received  the  congratulations 
of  his  spectators  before  one  hour  and  forty  minutes 
had  passed  since  he  took  his  first  oyster.  Of 
course,  both  in  respect  to  the  quantity  and  the 
cost  of  the  aliments  consumed,  this  exploit  would 
have  been  mere  child's  play  to  LuouUus  dining  with 
Lucullus.  But  for  a  modern  it  was  a  creditable 
performance.  So  that  he  may  account  for  the  high 
price  of  some  of  the  items  of  the  menu,  the  reader 
should  be  told  that  the  afiair  came  off  in  the  middle 
of  an  unusually  severe  winter. 

The  solitary  diner  (if  he  be  an,  epicure,  and  none 
but  epicures  can  be  justly  said  to  dine)  seldom 
fails  in  appetite  for  food.  But  he  usually  drinks 
more  fi'eely  than  he  eats.  The  Vicomte  de  Vieil- 
Castel  drank  four  bottles  of  wine  at  his  little  repast. 
"  When  one  dines  alone,"  said  Theodore  Hook, 
*' the  bottle  does  come  round  so  fast."  On  being 
asked  whether  he  had  taken  the  whole  of  three 
bottles  of  port  at  a  solitary  dinner,  without  any 
assistance,  Sir  Hercules  Langrishe  rephed,  ^•No, 
not  quite  that,  I  had  the  assistance  of  a  bottle  of 
Madeira."  Whilst  lovers  of  good  cheer  may  in 
their  hours  of  loneliness  humour  their  gulosity,  to 
any  degree  of  self-indulgence,  without  incurring 
social  obloquy,  it  is  generally  thought  scandalous 
for   a   man  to  drink    deeply    in   the   absence  of 


294  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE   TABLB. 

fellow-topers.  Dr.  Johnson  held  an  exactly  con- 
trary opinion,  and  acted  upon  it.  Indeed  when 
he  allowed  himself  the  rather  discreditable  pleasure 
of  drunkenness,  he  disdained  to  take  it  in  festal 
society.  "  Sir,"  he  once  said  to  Boswell,  "  I 
do  not  say  it  is  wrong  to  produce  self-compla- 
cency by  drinking ;  I  only  deny  that  it  improves 
the  mind.  When  I  drank  wine,  I  scorned  to  drink 
it  when  in  company.  I  have  drunk  many  a  bottle 
by  myself ;  in  the  first  place,  because  I  had  need 
of  it  to  raise  my  spirits,  in  the  second  place,  be- 
cause I  would  have  nobody  to  witness  its  effects 
upon  me." 

The  auricular  nerves  being  intimately  related 
with  the  nerves  of  the  nose  and  palate,  it  is  not 
strange  that  whatever  afflicts  the  hearing  is  preju- 
dicial to  a  process  which  appeals  directly  to  the 
taste  and  smell.  Always  averse  to  noise  whilst 
they  are  eating,  epicures  shrink  instinctively  from 
speakers  with  harsh  and  overbearing  voices.  It  is 
the  reverse  with  mere  gluttons.  Always  noisy  at 
meat,  both  in  their  speech  and  their  manner  of 
eating,  gross  feeders  delight  in  uproar  and  riotous 
associates.  Some  epicures  are  so  sensitive  of 
sound,  that,  whilst  tumultuous  clamour  completely 
paralyses  their  palates,  they  require  perfect  silence 
in  order  to  appreciate  delicate  flavours.  "  Ah, 
gentlemen,  keep  a  little  quiet,  one  does  not  know 


SILENCE   IS   GOLDEN.  295 

what  one  is  eating,"  said  Montmaur,  tte  French 
gourmet^  who  fed  nicely  in  the  earlier  part  of  the 
seventeenth  century,  and  who,  in  his  reasonable 
recognition  of  the  piquancy  which  his  discreetly 
exercised  wit  gave  to  a  repast,  used  to  say  to  his 
friends,  "  You  find  the  meats  and  wine,  and  I  will 
find  the  salt."  It  is  on  record  that  Thackeray — a 
man  of  fine  gust  as  well  as  of  lofty  genius — required 
unbroken  silence  for  the  full  enjoyment  of  a  dish 
of  superlative  merit.  In  order  that  justice  should 
be  done  to  a  matelote  of  exquisite  goodness,  served 
at  a  Parisian  dinner,  he  paused  after  the  first  taste 
of  the  charming  preparation,  and  turning  to  Mr. 
Hayward,  said  beseechingly,  "My  dear  fellow, 
don't  let  us  speak  a  word  till  we  have  finished  this 
dish."  The  novelist,  by  the  way,  is  said  to  have 
been  the  first  to  discover  that,  to  be  perfect,  a 
curry  should  contain  a  slight  flavour  of  crab. 

For  the  highest  gastronomic  pleasure,  silence  was 
no  less  necessary  to  the  famous  Marquis  of  Hertford, 
the  wicked  lord  whose  portrait  may  be  found  in  the 
pages  of  Thackeray,  Disraeli,  and  Reynolds,  to  say 
nothing  of  a  score  other  novelists.  A  man  of  wit, 
who  relished  wit  in  his  companions,. the  Marquis 
was  also  a  consummate  epicure,  who  held  that, 
whilst  sprightly  conversation  heightened  the  de- 
lights of  the  table,  it  should  be  jealously  used  as 
nothing  more  than  a  subordinate  influence  towards 


296  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

the  higher  enjoyments.  Theodore  Hook  was  the 
nmst  judicious  of  table  talkers.  Jubilant  over  his 
claret  at  dessert,  and  vociferously  hilarious  to- 
wards early  morning  over  his  gin-and-water,  he 
bridled  his  frolicsomeness  at  the  epicurean  board. 
His  talk  between  the  soup  and  the  cheese  consisted 
of  gently  stimulating  pleasantries,  thrown  about  in 
the  intervals  between  courses.  On  the  appearance 
of  each  fresh  course  he  grew  taciturn.  Whilst  a 
culinary  work  of  extraordinary  excellence  was  under 
consideration,  he  was  always  as  silent  as  death. 
His  great  influence  with  his  patron  was  largely  due 
to  his  discretion  at  table. 

Never  jealous  of  young  aspirants  in  the  social  arts, 
and  above  all'  things  sedulous  for  his  patron's 
amusement,  Theodore  sometimes  introduced  to  the 
Marquis's  table  a  new  talker  about  town.  His 
selections  of  candidates  for  preferment  from  the 
rising  generation  of  "  diners  out'*  were  never  made 
without  consideration,  and  rarely  failed  to  achieve 
their  object.  On  one  occasion,  however,  he  com- 
mitted the  serious  blunder  of  bringing  to  one  of  his 
lord's  "  little  dinners"  a  gentleman  who,  in  his  zeal 
to  fascinate  the  noble  entertainer,  forgot  that 
colloquial  smartness  is  not  more  requisite  than 
ability  to  keep  silence  in  a  professional  parasite. 

"  Don't  bring  that  young  gentleman  agam,"  the 


UNSEASONABLE   LEVITY.  297 

Marquis  observed  on  the  following  day  to  his  chief 
jester. 

"  He  told  some  good  stories,"  Hook  urged,  at  the 
same  time  defending  himself  and  the  absent  cul- 
prit. 

"  True/'  returned  the  Marquis,  **  I  will  not 
do  him  an  injustice.  He  has  a  very  good  col- 
lection of  stories,  and  he  tells  them  with  con- 
siderable cleverness ;  but,  my  dear  Hook,  he  does 
not  know  when  to  tell  them.  I  was  in  the  middle 
of  that  charming  matelote,  as  perfect  a  thing  as  my 
man  ever  sent  to  table,  when  he  disturbed  me  with 
an  epigram.  It  was  a  good  jeu  d^esprit,  doubtless. 
So  much  the  worse  for  me  and  my  matelote.  A 
bad  mot  would  have  occasioned  me  less  disturbance. 
I  may  not  be  ruffled  in  that  way,  my  dear  Hook, 
when  I  am  dining." 

Gallantly  fighting  for  his  proteg^.  Hook  replied, 
"  The  honour  of  dining  with  you,  my  lord,  elated 
him,  and  made  him  too  talkative.  Moreover,  he 
would  have  done  better  had  he  been  less  anxious  to 
impress  you  favourably." 

Never  deficient  in  generosity  to  his  friends,  or  in 
good  breeding  to  his  enemies,  the  Marquis  relented. 
"  Well,  Hook,"  he  said,  graciously,  "you  may  bring 
him  again  next  season,  when  you  have  trained  him  to 
good  manners.     I'll  give  him  another  chance.     The 


298  A   BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

*  animal  has  some  good  points ;  but  at  present  he  is 
only  a  half-broken  colt." 

This  story  should  be  taken  to  heart  by  young 
"  Kons"  and   other  adventurers,  who   would    talk 

.  themselves  into  favour  at  the  tables  of  "the  great." 
Lordly  entertainers  are  not  always  so  forbearing  and 
lenient  as  the  Marquis  of  Hertford,  who  gave  the 
offender  of  the  story  a  second  chance.  Many  a 
smart  adventurer,  after  gaining  admission  to  great 
houses,  and  figuring  for  a  season  as  a  "man  in 
society/' has  been  dropped  in  the  ensuing  year  by 
the  fastidious  patrons  whom  he  has  offended  by 
overbearing  or  excessive  loquacity  at  dinners  to 
which  he  was  invited  "  on  trial." 

"  A  guest,"  says  Dick  Humelbergius  Secundus, 
in  the  "Apician  Morsels"  (1829)  "who.  knows, 
through  the  medium  of  a  conversation,  as  original 
as  decent  and  humorous,  how  to  captivate  the 
attention  of  the  numerous  guests  who  surround 
and  listen  to  him,  may  assure  himself  that  he  will 
always  be  sought  after,  and  consequently  invited  by 
the  host  for  whom  he  becomes  a  powerful  auxiliary 
at  dinners  which  he  may  be  pleased  to  offer  his 
friends."  But  to  succeed  in  his  more  difficult  than 
lofty  vocation,  it  is  not  enough  for  the  commensal 
to  talk  cleverly  on  several  subjects  and  give  new 
points  to  old  stories.  His  speech  must  be  season- 
able and  considerate,  or,  whatever  its  vivacity  and 


ASSURED   SILENCE.  299 

abundance,  it  Thrill  dimmish  the  satisfaction  of  the 
company.  His  first  duty  is  to  please,  and  to  accom- 
plish this  end  he  must  assist  others  to  shine  whilst 
displaying  his  own  brilliance.  Instead  of  extorting 
attention  he  should  render  it.  Playing  the  part  of 
a  courteous  and  sympathetic  listener,  he  should 
smile  complacently  at  badly  delivered  anecdotes, 
and  feign  contentment  when  he  is  irked  by  prosy 
gossips,  or  irritated  by  his  professional  competitors. 
Above  all  things  he  should  refrain  from  raising  a 
laugh  to  the  sacrifice  of  a  sauce,  or  to  the  prejudice 
of  a  gastronomic  sensation. 

Some  epicures  are  so  sensitive  of  noise,  that  for 
the  full  appreciation  of  delicate  fare  they  require,  in 
addition  to  silence,  a  sense  of  security  from  auricular 
disturbances.  To  these  scarcely  fortunate  though 
finely  organised  beings,  the  mere  presence  of  com- 
panions who  may  be  startled  into  inopportune 
speech,  or  of  servants  who  may  destroy  the  volup- 
tuous stillness  by  dropping  a  fork  or  glass,  is  enough 
to  create  a  nervous  unrest  incompatible  with  perfect 
felicity.  The  gastronomer,  thus  delicately  or  mor- 
bidly constituted,  seldom  consents  to  dine  at  a  table 
set  for  more  than  three  persons.  Shrinking  from 
the  bare  imagination  of  a  possibility  of  agonizing 
interruption,  he  prefers  to  dine  by  himself,  and  to 
ensure  the  requisite  tranquillity  by  dispensing,  as  far 
as  possible,  with  attendants.   If  he  permits  a  servant 


300  A  BOOK  ABOUr  THE  TABLE. 

to  watch  him  at  bis  repast,  the  menial  wears  list 
slippers,  breathes  lightly,  and  has  been  retained  on 
the  understanding  that  immediate  dismissal  from  his 
office  will  follow  the  first  noisy  faux  pas  that  he  may 
commit  in  the  performance  of  his  duties.  It  is, 
however,  more  usual  for  the  gourmand  of  extremely 
sensitive  hearing  to  eat  in  perfect  solitude,  his 
attendant  retiring,  after  the  service  of  each  course,  to 
an  ante- room,  whence  he  can  be  summoned  or  other- 
wise ordered  by  the  noiseless  signals  of  an  "  indi- 
cator," similar  to  the  contrivance  which  an  ingenious 
coach-builder  has  recently  substituted  for  the  car- 
riage check-string.  The  **  revolving  dumb-waiter," 
to  be  placed  on  the  solitaire's  dining-table,  is  another 
arrangement  for  the  epicure  who  desires  complete 
isolation  at  his  meals.  The  volant  table,  invented 
by  Louis  the  Fifteenth  and  the  Pompadour,  may 
also  be  adapted  to  the  requirements  of  the  solitary 
eater,  who,  by  means  of  the  beautiful  invention, 
may  receive  all  the  courses  of  an  elaborate  banquet 
from  the  hands  of  invisible  and  inaudible  minis- 
trants.  By  pressing  a  spring  gently  at  the  close  of 
each  course,  he  causes  his  table  to  descend  slowly 
through  the  floor,  and  then,  after  the  lapse  of  a  few 
minutes,  he  sees  it  rise  silently,  and  place  within 
his  reach  a  fresh  supply  of  culinary  comforts.  The 
only  grave  objection  to  this  magical  table  is  that  its 
delicate    mechanism    is    liable    to   disarrangement 


OFFICIOUS   MINISTRANTS.  301 

through  the  neglect  or  clumsiness  of  servants.  Its 
provisions,  however,  ensure  perfect  noiselessness,  if 
the  flaps  or  sliding  panels  of  the  trap  door  are  pro- 
perly padded.  Of  course,  it- is  needless  to  remind  the 
fairly  educated  readers  of  this  page  that  Louis  the 
Fifteenth's  volant  table  was  constructed  for  a  party 
of  thirty,  and  that  the  purpose  of  its  joint  inventors 
was  not  to  compass  silence  at  meals,  but  to  afford  a 
numerous  company  the  greatest  possible  amount  of 
privacy  and  perfect  freedom  from  the  embarrassing 
attentions  of  servitors.  Had  such  a  table  been 
known  to  our  ancestors  of  Alexander  Barclay's  time, 
it  would  have  been  commended  by  the  censorious 
poet  who,  assaihng  with  equal  severity  servants  and 
their  masters,  wrote  : — 

**  Slowe  be  the  sewers  in  serving  in  alway, 
But  swifb  be  they  after,  taking  the  meate  away; 
A  speciall  custom  is  used  them  amonge, 
No  good  dishe  to  suffer  on  borde  to  be  longe ; 
If  the  dishe  be  pleasaunt,  eyther  fleshe  or  fyshe. 
Ten  handes  at  once  swarme  in  the  dishe ; 
And  if  it  be  fleshe  ten  knives  shalt  thou  see. 
Mangling  the  fleshe,  and  in  the  platter  flee, 
To  put  there  thy  handes  is  perill  without  fayle. 
Without  a  gauntlet,  or  els  a  glove  of  mayle." 

Quin  only  reproduced  an  old  sarcasm  when  he 
declared  that  no  one  could  dine  safely  at  a  civic 
turtle-feast,  unless  he  went  to  it  armed  with  "a 
basket-hilted   knife    and  fork.'*     In   the   sixteenth 


302  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE, 

century  the  volant  board  would  not  have  improved 
the  manner  of  the  gentlefolk  who  fed  themselves 
with  their  fingers,  but  it  would  have  preserved  them 
from  the  officiousness  of  liveried  menials.  In  recent 
times,  the  general  distrust  of  servants  who  may- 
report  maliciously  the  incautious  speeches  uttered 
at  table,  has  been  increased  by  the  odious  practice 
of  employing  them  as  political  spies. 

Though  a  dozen  is  the  highest  number  of  feasters 
for  a  social  party,  any  greater  number,  with  a  single 
exception,  may  be  invited  to  the  board  which  is 
spread  for  ceremonious  and  ostentatious  hospitality. 
Banquets  for  twelve  times  twelve  persons,  and  for 
still  larger  companies,  are  of  frequent  occurrence. 
The  Duke  of  Norfolk,  mentioned  by  Sir  Nathaniel 
Wraxall,  would  not  have  relinquished  his  purpose 
of  celebrating  the  ter-centenary  of  his  ancestor*s  ex- 
altation with  a  dinner  to  all  his  living  kindred,  had 
the  descendants  of  Jock  of  Norfolk  numbered  no 
more  than  three  thousand. 

It  remains  to  say  a  few  words  of  the  single  excep- 
tion to  the  rule  that  declares  all  numbers  "good  for  a 
feast."  Whilst  his  vigorous  and  subtle  mind  regarded 
vulgar  superstitions  disdainfully,  Comte  could  not 
liberate  himself  from  the  fascination  of  numbers. 
Thirteen  had  a  peculiar  charm  for  him,  as  the 
seventh  prime  number,  i.e.,  the  seventh  number 
that  has  no  factors.     He  experienced  an  animating 


THE   FATAL   NUMBER.  303 

sense  of  good  fortune  whenever  he  found  himself 
at  table  with  twelve  other  companions.  In 
nothing  was  he  more  eccentric  than  in  this  pre- 
ference for  a  number  that  has  for  centuries  been 
regarded  as  the  number  of  evil  omen. 

The  dismal  incidents  which  followed  the  Last 
Supper  occasioned  the  ancient  opinion  that  when- 
ever thirteen,  and  no  more,  persons  broke  bread 
together,  death  would  in  the  following  year  take  at 
least  one  of  the  party.  Writing  in  the  earlier  half 
of  the  seventeenth  century,  Peter  du  Moulin  (styled 
pedantically  Petrus  Molinoeus)  observed,  "  If  there 
are  thirteen  guests  at  a  feast,  it  is  believed  that  one 
of  them  will  die  within  the  year ;  for  just  so  many 
persons  reclined  at  table  when^  Christ  celebrated  the 
Eucharist  on  the  day  before  he  died.  Thus,  also, 
amongst  the  superstitious  thirty  is  a  number  of  evil 
omen,  because  Christ  was  sold  for  thirty  pieces  of  sil- 
ver." The  superstitious  repugnance  to  thirty  has  not 
endured.  That  number  is  commonly  seen  at  the 
pompous  dinners  of  our  London  entertainers,  and  it 
never  causes  uneasiness  or  provokes  remark.  But 
the  prejudice  against  "  thirteen'*  still  endures. 
It  aflfects  even  vigorous  minds,  who  are  none  the  less 
troubled  by  it  because  they  are  aware  that  an  average 
mortality  removes  yearly  from  the  world  at  least 
one  out  of  every  thirteen  persons  of  middle  or  old 
age.    Lord  Chancellor  Erskine  could  never  be  in- 


804  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLK. 

duced  to  seat  himself  at  a  table  with  only  twelve 
other  people ;  and  the  same  nervous  dislike  to  be 
one  of  thirteen  at  a  social  meeting  is  felt  by  a  con- 
siderable proportion  of  educated  Englishmen,  who 
are  secretly  ashamed  of  their  weakness  in  yielding 
to  a  superstitious  fancy. 

Some  years  since  poor  Albert  Smith  gave  a  supper 
of  thirteen  that  discredited  the  superstition  in  a  re- 
markable manner.  Himself  on  the  point  of  starting 
for  China,  he  entertained  twelve  friends  who  were 
bound  for  the  Crimea,  to  encounter  the  perils  of 
war  as  military  officers,  or  as  journalists  reporting 
the  incidents  of  the  conflict.  Deeming  it  in  the 
highest  degree  improbable  that  they  would  meet 
again  on  English  ground  when  they  had  once  started 
for  the  scene  of  danger,  the  twelve  guests  met  their 
host  with  light  hearts,  and  laughed  about  the  fate 
which  some  of  them  would  of  course  encounter 
in  a  few  months.  Strangely  enough,  all  twelve 
returned  from  the  war  in  perfect  health,  and  supped 
again  at  a  table  of  thirteen  with  the  humorous 
lecturer. 

Mindful  of  the  slowly-dying  superstition,  which 
*^  dying  hard"  is  still  powerful  over  a  large  propor- 
tion of  ordinary  minds,  the  prudent  Amphitryon 
thinks  twice  before  he  arranges  for  a  party  of  fourteen, 
since  a  single  "  failure  at  the  last  moment"  would 
reduce  the  company  to  the  fatal  number.     If  he  has 


FRIENDS    IN    NEED,  805 

in  reserve  a  trencher-man,  whom  he  can  summon 
at  the  last  instant  to  act  as  quatorzieme,  or  a  child 
•whom  he  can  place  in  a  vacant  chair,  he  orders  for 
fourteen  without  misgivings.  But  in  default  of  such 
resources  against  untoward  accident,  he  limits  his 
party  to  twelve  or  raises  it  to  sixteen.  In  George 
the  Third's  time,  it  was  thought  that  thirteen  persons 
might  safely  dine  together  if  the  party  comprised  a 
lady  with  reasonable  hopes  of  adding  to  the  popula- 
tion in  the  course  of  a  few  weeks.  Reference  is 
made  to  this  opinion  by  a  correspondent  of  the 
**  Gentleman's  Magazine"  for  July,  1796.  The 
French  of  the  same  period  held  that  thirteen  per- 
sons might  sit  together  at  the  same  board  and  yet 
escape  the  penalty,  if  one  of  the  party,  sacrificing 
himself  for  the  rest  of  the  company,  refrained  from 
partaking  of  the  cheer.  Grimod  de  la  Reyni^re 
was  of  this  opinion. 

At  the  same  time  it  was  generally  believed  by  our 
grandfathers,  that  Paris  contained  a  select  body  of 
*'  diners-out"  who  subsisted  chiefly  by  officiating  as 
guests  at  tables  where  the  presence  of  a  profes- 
sional quatorzleme  was  requisite  for  the  company's 
contentment.  Even  so  late  as  thirty  years  since  a 
writer  in  one  of  our  magazines  described,  with  ex- 
cellent minuteness,  a  gentlemen  who  occupying  an 
apartment  within  a  stone's  throw  of  the  Palais  Royal, 
had  long  followed  the  calUng  of  a  fourteenth  guest 

VOL.  I.  X 


306  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

in  the  highest  circles  of  French  society.  For  a 
moderate  fee  and  a  good  dinner  he  appeared  on  the 
shortest  notice  at  the  social  board  of  any  of  his 
patrons ;  and  when  on  duty  he  never  failed  to  charm 
by  his  agreeable  address  the  persons  with  whom  it 
was  no  less  his  business  than  his  pleasure  to  dine 
on  terms  of  apparent  equality.  The  professional 
quatorzieme  of  Parisian  society  was  the  purely 
fictitious  creation  of  the  humorists.  But  fiction 
treated  him  so  realistically  that  he  was  long  re- 
garded as  a  veritable  personage  on  this  side  of  the 
Channel.  And  laughingly  enough,  whilst  Londoners 
believed  in  the  Parisian  quatorzieme  as  a  recognized 
power  of  good  society  in  France,  the  Parisians 
amused  themselves  by  telling  how,  in  that  equally 
ludicrous  and  perfidious  Albion,  it  was  usual  for 
gentlemen  of  narrow  means  to  earn  a  precarious 
subsistence  by  letting  themselves  out  as  quatarziemes 
to  aristocratic  entertainers.  We  have  outgrown 
our  belief  in  the  quatorzieme  of  Paris ;  but  Paris 
still  believes  in  the  professional  '*  fourteenth"  of  the 
English  dinner-table.  Some  three  years  since  a 
French  illustrator  of  the  English  and  their  ways, 
told  the  readers  of  a  leading  Parisian  joftirnal  how  a 
certain  Monsieur  Fitzjones,  residing  in  a  highly 
fashionable  street  near  Leyssterre  Squarr,  earned 
his  daily  dinner  and  piece  of  gold  by  appearing  as 
quatorzieme  at  the  table  of  a  rich  milord  or  Sir  Baron* 


307 


CHAPTER  XVn. 

SOUP. 

"  I  hate  French  cooks,  hut  love  their  wine ; 
On  fricassee  I  scorn  to  dine. 

And  bad's  the  best  ragoat ; 
Let  me  of  claret  have  my  fill. 
Let  me  have  turtle  to  my  will, 

la  one  large  mighty  stew 

"  A  napkin  let  my  temples  bind. 
In  night-gown  free  and  nnconfined. 
And  undisturbed  by  women ; 
All  boons  in  one  I  ask  of  fate. 
At  city  feasts  to  eat  my  weight, 

And  drink  enough  to  swim  in." 

The  Aldejlman's  Wish. 
"  n  faut  manger  sa  soupe  bouillante,  et  prendre  son  caf^  brulant.' 
— Almanach  des  GoimiiANDS. 

THEODORE  HOOK  enjoyed  soup  and  fish  till  he 
merrily  declined  a  plate  of  turtle  on  the  plea 
that  he  was  not  a  soup-or-fish-al  person.  The  pun 
became  famous,  and,  to  support-  it  with  consistent 
behaviour,  the  jester  henceforth  abstained  from  the 
two  species  of  nutriment. 

Like  the  Eomans,  our  mediaeval  ancestors  were 
large  consumers  of  soups.  They  had  flesh-broths, 
fish-pottages,  vegetable-soups,  and  soups  concocted 
in  various  proportions'  of  meat  and  vegetables,  and 

X  2 


308  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

of  fish  and  vegetables.  The  pot,  as  we  have  seen, 
was  their  commonest  cooking  utensil,  and  pottage 
was  their  commonest  diet.  Some  of  their  richest 
soups  contained  so  much  meat  or  fish  that  the 
culinary  historian  doubts  whether  he  should  not  rank 
them  'with  broths  or  hashes.  These  same  pottages 
were  also  thickened  with  grain  and  meal.  In  his 
fondness  for  fluid  food,  the  mediasval  epicure  could 
seldom  relish  meat  until  he  had  drowned  it  with 
pottage-liquor.  He  covered  his  slice  from  a  haunch 
of  venison  with  frumenty  ix.  wheat-pottage — a  pre- 
paration that,  still  seen  at  rude  tables  in  the  pro- 
vinces, was  banished  long  since  from  polite  boards 
in  favour  of  bread-sauce.  "  When  I  consider  bread- 
sauce  in  all  its  branches,  I  am  proud  that  I  am 
an  Englishman,"  a  Regency  epicure  said  of  the 
modern  substitute  for  the  obsolete  frumenty.  The 
French  deride  our  bread-sauce,  calling  it  poultice, 
and  maintaining  that  it  should  be  used  only  by 
surgeons. 

Consisting  altogether  of  water  and  herbs,  the 
thinnest  of  the  old  vegetable  soups  were  properly 
called  herb-pottages.  The  Church  commended  them 
as  fit  diet  for  meagre  days;  and  in  seasons  of 
fasting  they  still  find  favour  with  the  religious 
persons  who  observe  the  Church's  culinary  ordi- 
nances. Nourishing  in  the  lowest  degree,  they  are 
sometimes  agreeable  to  the  educated  feeder  if  pre- 


PORRIDGE  AND  BEAWNS.  S09 

pared  cleverly.  Concocted  according  to  ancient 
receipts,  they  are  interesting  to  the  antiquary,  who 
regards  them  as  **  survivals"  of  the  culinary  medi- 
cine which  was  so  largely  present  in  the  mediaaval 
cuisine.  When  physic  was  invariably  administered 
in  the  form  of  herbs,  green-meat  pottages  were 
given  for  curative  purposes.  Like  the  other  medi- 
cinal compounds  of  the  period,  these  spoon-food 
stomach  mixtures  contained  from  a  score  to  half  a 
hundred  herbal  ingredients,  each  of  which  was  pre- 
scribed for  the  consumer's  health. 

Delighting  in  hot  soups,  our  ancestors  were  also 
great  consumers  of  cold  pottage.  An  old  rhymster 
says  : 

"  Peas-porridge  hot, 
Peas-porridge  cold, 
Peas-porridge  iii  a  pot, 
Nine  days  old." 

Of  all  the  thick  soups  which  he  lapped  with  ecstasy 
in  their  fluid  state,  there  was  not  one  from  which 
the  old  epicure  turned  when  it  had  cooled  into 
substance,  and  acquired  the  consistency  of  the 
-mortrew,  the  jelly,  and  the  standing  compote.  But 
to  win  his  unqualified  approval,  it  was  necessary 
that  a  cold  soup  should  contain  a  large  number  of 
**  brawns"  stewed  to  such  tenderness  that  they 
melted  in  the  mouth.  When  the  mediaeval  cook 
said  "  Take  brawns,"  he  meant  "  Take  pieces  of 


310  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

flesh."  The  rich  meat  soups  of  old  time  were  made 
chiefly  of  "  brawns,"  chopped  in  "  gobbets  "  and 
"  dices,"  that  floated  in  a  hot  fluid,  thickened  with 
meal  and  pounde>i  flesh.  Served  cold  and  "  char- 
geant,"  these  soups  were  commonly  called  ''brawns'* 
long  before  an  ingenious  chef  produced  the  "  collar" 
and  "  shield"  of  "  brawn  proper."  This  should  be 
borne  in  mind,  for  it  gives  the  etymology  and  pedi- 
gree of  our  modern  "brawns,"  those  gelatinous 
viands  that  are  never  regarded  at  breakfast  or 
supper  without  approval. 

In  the  earlier  centuries  of  our  feudal  time,  meats 
were  almost  always  served  with  more  or  less  juice, 
in  gobbets,  slices,  or  dices.  In  the  later  centuries 
of  the  same  period,  it  became  usual  with  the  best 
chefs  to  serve  "large  pieces"  of  flesh  in  their 
pottages,  taking  care,  however,  that  these  nobler 
masses  were  boiled  to  extreme  tenderness.  Pieces, 
that  in  course  of  time  came  to  be  called  "joints," 
were  thus  boiled  for  the  Tudor  tables  and  served 
in  a  rich  broth  of  meat-juice  and  vegetables. 
Calves'  heads,  gigots,  and  rounds  of  beef  were 
cooked  whole  in  this  fashion,  and  at  table  the 
"  pieces"  so  cooked  and  served  were,  for  the 
carver's  convenience,  taken  from  their  deep  soup- 
dishes  and  put  on  flat  trenchers.  The  modern 
"joint"  in  its  separate  dish  owes  its  place  on  the 
festal  board  to  this  olden  mode  of  transferring  from 


MISSON   ON    MANNERS.  311 

the  pot  to  flat  dishes  the  larger  ingredients  of  the 
"  pot's  luck."     So  also  the  fashion,  not  yet  quite 
obsolete,   of  garnishing  boiled  joints   with   boiled 
carrots,    turnips,    parsnips    and   other   vegetables, 
points   to   the   period   when    such   "pieces'*   were 
brought  to  the  board  in  a  large  deep  vessel,  brim- 
ming with  the  multifarious  contents  of  the  big  kitchen 
pot.      "  Another   time,"    says    Misson,    describing 
English   cookery   at   the  close  of  the  seventeenth 
century,    **  they  will  have  a  piece  of  boiled  beef, 
and  then  they  salt  it  some  days  beforehand  and 
besiege  it  with  five  or  six  heaps  of  cabbages,  car- 
rots,   turnips,  or  some  other  herbs  or  roots,  well 
peppered  and  salted,    and  swimming   in    butter." 
And  he  adds,  "  When  they  have  boiled  meat,  there 
is  sometimes  one  in  the  company  that  will  have  the 
broth;  this  is  a  kind  of  soup,  with  a  little  thin 
oatmeal  in  it  and  some  leaves  of  thyme  and  sage, 
or  other  such  small  herbs.      They  bring  up  this 
in   as   many   porringers   as  there  are  people   that 
desire  it ;  those   that  please  crumble  a  little  bread 
into  it,  and  this  makes  a  kind  of  pottage."     Misson 
put  his  feet  under  the  English  table  just  at   the 
time  when  it  became  the  fashion  to  serve  the  boiled 
meat  and  pot-liquor  separately,  instead,  of  bring- 
ing them  to  table  in  the  same  vessel. 

Pork,  beloved  by  our  feudal  fathers  as  fervently 
as  by  the  ancient  Romans,  was  of  all  meats  the 


_ 


312  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

flesh  most  liberally  thrown  into  the  pot ;  and  whilst 
"  coddling'*  it  to  exquisite  softness,  with  a  view  to 
cold  soup  of  superlative    merit,    the    old  English 
cooks  became  connoisseurs   of  the   material,    and 
consummate  makers  of  "  brawn."     The  meat  was 
stewed  slowly  and    for   several  hours.      It   might 
remain  in  the  pot  almost  any  length  of  time  without 
injury  to  its  virtues ;  but  it  was  never  taken  from 
the  seething  vessel  until  it  was  so  tender  that  "  a 
brused  rush  or  soft  straw  could  be  thrust  cleane 
through  the  fat."     In  order  that  they  should  not 
be  "  done  to  rags"  by  this  process,  the  pieces  of 
swine's    flesh  were   bound   round   with  bulrushes, 
osier-peels,  tape,  or   string,  before  they  were  put 
into   the  water.     On  being  taken  from  the  boiler 
they  were  exposed  to  cooling  air,  and  when  they 
had    acquired   firmness    they  were    "soused"  for 
several  days  in  good  ale,  or  in  beer  seasoned  with 
verjuice  and  salt,  the  sousing  liquor  being  renewed 
from  time  to  time.     For  the  manufacture  of  this 
"brawn,"    pork    of   the   finest   quality   was   used. 
"  Collars  of  brawn"    were   made    from  the  boned 
i.eck-pieces.  whilst  «  shields  of  brawn"  were  made 
from   the  shoulders.     Brawn    proper    was    seldom 
made  of  any  but  the  fore  parts  of  the  animal;  the 
flesh  of  the  hinder  parts  being  designated  "  souse,'* 
when  it  had  been  duly  sodden  and  pickled. 

A  viand   peculiarly  English,   brawn  was    highly 


A   SURPBISE   FOR   THE   FBENCHMEN.  313 

esteemed  by  our  ancestors,  who  placed  it  on  their 
tables  at  dinner  and  supper  on  almost  every  flesh- 
day  between  the  first  of  November  and  the  last  of 
February.  At  the  same  season  on  fish-days  they 
ate  slices  of  cold  fish-porridge,  which  was  prepared 
so  as  to  resemble  pork  brawn ;  and  this  gelatinous 
fish-food  was  sometimes  called  "  brawn." 

William  Harrison  is  at  great  pains  to  describe  the 
processes  for  making  brawn,  and  he  gives  us  several 
stories  which  exhibit  our  ancestors'  pride  in  the 
national  dainty.  In  their  ignorance  of  its  nature, 
the  French  cooks,  after  the  fall  of  Calais,  destroyed 
most  of  the  large  stock  of  brawn  found  in  the  city 
by  attempting  to  roast,  bake,  broil,  or  fry  the  de- 
licate fare.  Supposing  that  it  was  made  of  fish,  a 
pious  French  gentleman  had  imperilled  his  soul's 
salvation  by  eating  in  Lent  a  quantity  of  "  souse" 
sent  out  to  him  by  an  English  nobleman.  Better 
still,  an  English  humourist,  whilst  residing  in  Spain, 
had  entertained  certain  Jews  ^ith  the  forbidden 
meat,  and  in  their  simplicity  the  wretched  Israelites 
had  literally  gorged  themselves  with  "  shields"  and 
"  collars"  of  the  unclean  viand. 

The  English  soups  of  the  seventeenth  century 
dififered  little  from  the  soups  of  the  mediaeval  Eng- 
lish, save  that  they  sometimes  contained  joints 
of  meat  instead  of  gobbets.  Cotgrave  makesL  honour- 
able mention  of  several  varieties  of  oat-meal  pottage, 


314  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

as  "  meates  very  wholesome  and  temperate,  and 
light  of  digestion,"  the  best  of  them  being  the  ale- 
porridge,  or  groat-ale,  i.e.  oat-meal  soup,  made 
with  malt-liquor  instead  of  water.  Prom  this  "  groat- 
ale,'*  rendered  in  base  Latin  gmtellum,  came  the 
modern  term  "  gruel."  Daisy  soup  was  an  Eliza- 
bethan herb-pottage  (good  for  the  brain) ,  of  which 
the  modern  epicure  would  rather  read  than  partake. 
The  same  may  be  said  of  nettle-soup,  highly  com- 
mended by  the  old  doctors  for  "  procuring  sleep," 
"  helping  coughs,"  and  assuaging  the  gout.  An- 
other medicinal  pottage  of  the  seventeenth  century 
was  snail-soup,  made  of  garden-snails,  earth-worms, 
a  score  or  more  herbs,  and  strong  ale,  boiled  to- 
gether and  strained.  As  the  squeamish  reader  will 
soon  be  invited  to  relish  a  plate  of  turtle,  he  shall 
not  be  told  too  precisely  how  this  choice  concoction 
was  prepared  for  the  special  benefit  of  invalids 
stricken  with  consumption.  It  is  enough  to  say,  that 
snail-broth  held  its  place  in  culinary  medicine  so 
late  as  the  beginning  of  this  century,  and  that  an 
elaborate  receipt  for  preparing  it  may  be  found  in 
«  The  Pastry-Cook's  Vade  Mecum"  (1705). 

So  long  as  the  English  of  every  social  grade  were 
habitual  consumers  of  pottage,  their  dames  and 
soldiers  were  as  clever  at  making  palatable  broths 
"  out  of  nothing"  as  the  Prench  are  at  the  present 
tim^.      It  was  a  common  saying  with  our  thrifty 


STONE    BROTH.  315 

housewives  two  centuries  and  more  since,  that  any 
simpleton  could  make  a  soup  with  a  little  salt,  a  can 
of  water,  and  a  handful  of  garden  stuff.  Giles  Rose 
re-tells  the  story  of  the  two  soldiers,  one  of  whom 
went  without  broth,  whilst  the  other  made  excellent 
pottage  from  a  stone.  The  fellow  who  begged  at 
an  open  door  for  all  the  materials  for  a  simple  pot- 
tage, was  told  that  he  required  too  much  and  must 
go  elsewhere.  His  comrade,  taking  a  stone  from 
his  knapsack,  asked  only  for  a  pot  in  which  to  boil 
his  stone.  Even  a  miser  would  have  granted  so 
modest  a  request.  The  pot  was  supplied,  and  soon 
the  wily,  soldier  was  boiling  a  large  stone  undgr  the 
curious  eyes  of  half-a-dozen  bystanders.  Could  one 
of  them  give  him  a  little  salt  ?  the  cook  asked.  The 
salt  was  given.  A  minute  later  the  cook  observed, 
"  A  few  herbs  make  a  pleasant  seasoning  for  stone- 
broth,  but  I  must  manage  for  once  to  relish  soup 
without  a  perfect  flavour."  In  a  trice  one  of  the 
spectators  threw  a  bundle  of  herbs  into  the  pot, 
saying,  "  So  clever  a  fellow  ought  to  have  a  soup 
to  his  taste  when  he  shows  us  how  to  make  it  of  a 
stone."  After  another  while  the  adventurer  ob- 
served, "  Stone-broth  is  good  broth,  but  there  is  no 
question  that  a  scrap  of  meat  or  bacon  brings  out 
the  flavour  of  a  flint-stone."  Half-an-hour  had  not 
passed  since  his  arrival  at  the  house,  when  the 
soldier  was  enjoying  an  excellent  pottage  made  of 


316  A    TOOK   ABOUT  THE   TABLE. 

the  materials  supplied  by  his  spectators  for  the  m- 
provement  of  his  broth. 

Stone-broth  made  in  this  manner  was  as  rich  and 
nutritious  as  several  of  the  soups  served  on  meagre 
days  to  the  quality  of  Charles  the  Second's  London. 
That  sovereign's  chef,  Giles  Rose,  gives  receipts  for 
several  pottages  that  may  have  amused  the  palate, 
but  can  have  afforded  no  satisfaction  to  the  empty 
belly.  For  instance,  his  Herb  Pottage  without 
Butter  was  made  of  herbs,  water,  a  slice  or  two  of 
bread,  and  a  few  capers  to  render  the  mess  a  '*  little 
sowerish."  His  Bran  Pottage — the  strained  liquor, 
in  which  bran,  a  handful  of  almonds,  and  a  few 
sweet  herbs  had  been  boiled — was  another  broth  that 
a  saintly  man  might  take  on  Friday  with  an  easy  con- 
science, or  an  invalid  drink  without  fearing  its  in- 
flammatory power.  Another  of  the  same  artiste's 
cheaper  vegetable  soups  was  Pompeion  (or  Pump- 
kin) Broth.  Mr.  Rose's  Snow  Pottage — made  like 
the  mediaeval  white-soups,  of  milk,  eggs,  rice,  and 
sugar — was  a  richer,  as  well  as  more  agreeable,  soup 
for  fast  days.  In  the  time  of  many  fish-soups,  how- 
ever,  there  was  no  lack  of  generous  and  highly 
nutritious  broths  for  carnally-disposed  feeders  on 
saints'  days.  For  instance,  "  Potage  k  la  Reyne'* 
was  an  eel-soup,  to  gratify  an  epicure's  gust  or  stay 
a  farmer's  appetite.  Sole,  carp,  tench,  indeed  all 
the  fishes    commonly  brought  to  table,  were  also 


COPIES   OLDER  THAN  THE   ORIGINAL.  317 

served  in  pottages  that  would  now-a-days  be  called 
"  stews"  and  "  hashes." 

Mock-turtle  soup  was  known  to  our  ancestors 
long  before  they  made  acquaintance  with  real  turtle. 
The  mediaeval  gourmands  delighted  in  calfs-head 
broth,  whose  thick  and  lubricous  liquor  was  loaded 
with  strips  of  the  gelatinous  viand.  The  Restoration 
epicures  preferred  another  cookery  for  the  head. 
Instead  of  cutting  it  into  pieces,  they  removed  the 
bones,  stuffed  it  with  force-meat,  and,  after  boiling 
it  to  proper  tenderness,  put  it  whole  upon  the  table 
in  a  dish  brimming  with  broth.  Using  his  knife 
and  the  new  fork,  the  carver  distributed  slices  of 
the  head  with  each  apportionment  of  the  soup,  and 
sometimes  for  his  convenience  removed  the  viand 
from  the  broth  -  bowl  to  an  adjacent  trencher. 
Hence  "  calf  s-head"  is  another  of  the  "  modern 
joints"  that  were  served  in  the  pot  together  with 
other  elements  before  they  were  promoted  to  sepa- 
rate dishes,  and  made  to  figure  as  pieces  de  re- 
sistance. 

In  default  of  turtle— a  material  which,  strange  to 
say,  did  not  find  its  way  to  the  English  table  till 
we  had  held  our  West  Indian  possessions  for  several 
generations — the  Restoration  cooks  made  with  the 
flesh  of  the  land-tortoise  a  pottage  of  considerable 
merit,  though  inferior  in  every  respect  to  the  soup 
which  renders  the  sea -tortoise  glorious  in  death. 


1 


318  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

"  Take  your  tortoises,"  says  Giles  Rose,  "  and  cufc 
oflF  their  heads  and  feet,  and  boyl  them  in  fair  water, 
and  when  they  are  almost  boyl'd  put  to  them  some 
white  wine,  some  sweet  herbs,  and  a  piece  of  bacon, 
and  give  them  a  brown  in  the  frying-pan  with 
good  butter,  then  lay  them  upon  your  bread 
a-steeping  in  good  strong  broth,  and  well-seasoned ; 
garnish  the  dish  with  green  sparrow-grass  and 
lemon  over  it."  It  is  questionable  whether  tortoise- 
soup  ever  held  a  high  place  amongst  gastronomic 
creations,  but  it  appeared  from  time  to  time  in  the 
menus  of  fastidious  epicures,  till  it  was  banished 
from  the  kitchen  on  the  introduction  of  turtle. 

In  language  alike  creditable  to  his  head  and  his 
heart,  the  learned  author  of  the  "  Tabella  Cibaria" 
(1820)  says  of  the  turtle,  "  This  splendid  and  de- 
licate gift,  sent  from  the  Transatlantic  Nereids  to  the 
gastronomers  of  the  old  world,  could  not  be  known 
to  the  ancients,  and  we  regret  that  the  pens  of 
Martial,  Juvenal,  and  Horace  had  not  to  describe 
the  three-fold  quaUty  found  in  the  flesh  of  this 
enormous  reptile  and  amphibious  animal.  How 
harmoniously  calipash  and  calipee,  tasting  acci- 
dentally so  much  of  Grecian  origin,  might  have 
begun  Hexameter,  or  ended  Iambic  verses!  For 
instance, 

"  GiUlipash  hinc  gnstum  languentem  provocat,  inde 
Novum  miuistrat  appetitam  Gallipee. 


BY   WAY   OP  BRISTOL.  319 

"  And  it  seems  a  pity  that  the  tortoise,  the  shell 
of  which  was  adapted  to  the  lyre  of  Mercury,  had ' 
not  the  gratification  to  accompany  the  dithyrambic 
odes  composed,  as  they  would  have  been,  in  en- 
thusiastic praise  of  her  testaceous  sister,  the 
turtle.  Some  travellers  mention  the  turtle  as  an 
inhabitant  of  the  East  Indian  seas ;  but  the  nautical 
knowledge  of  the  Greeks  and  Romans  was  so  very 
confined  that,  were  this  assertion  positively  true, 
they  would  not  have  obtained  a  sufficient  acquain- 
tance with  this  excellent  food.  However,  it  never 
appeared  upon  their  tables." 

The  turtle  found  its  way  to  London  via  Bristol. 
It  was  still  a  dainty  seldom  seen  at  the  richest 
tables  of  the  metropolis,  when  the  merchants  of 
the  western  port  feasted  habitually  on  the  grandest 
of  all  soups.  The  recent  developments  of  British 
commerce  have  enabled  several  of  our  subordinate 
cities  to  surpass  Bristol  in  wealth  and  populousness. 
She  is  no  longer  the  "  second  city  of  the  Empire ;" 
but  time  cannot  rob  her  of  the  right  to  boast  that 
her  sons  were  the  first  inhabitants  of  Great  Britain 
to  appreciate  the  virtues  of  the  turtle.  Apart  from 
this  fact,  a  singular  uncertainty  covers  the  whole 
history  of  the  creature's  introduction  to  the  modern 
table.  When  a  writer  on  The  World  (No.  123, 
May  8,  1755),  noticed  the  new  food,  it  was  a 
luxury  often  seen  at  the  feasts  of  our  richer  epicures. 


320  A   BOOK   ABOUT  THE   TABLE. 

A  passage  in  Lord  Lyttleton's  "  Dialogues  of  the 
Dead/'  supports  the  general  opinion  that  it  was 
first  brought  to  our  tables  between  the  years  1740 
and  1750.  There  is  no  doubt  that  it  was  a  principal 
feature  of  civic  banquets  long  before  the  second 
George  had  closed  his  exemplary  career.  At  the 
beginning  of  the  present  century,  six  pounds  (live 
weight)  of  turtle  was  deemed  a  fairly  liberal  pro- 
vision for  each  guest  at  a  solemn  dinner.  The 
four  hundred  gentlemen  who  feasted  off  turtle  at 
the  City  of  London  Tavern,  in  August,  1808, 
managed  to  consume  without  any  fatal  accident  or 
immediate  discomfort,  twenty-five  thousand  pounds 
of  the  delicious  fare. 

In  the  days  of  our  grandfathers,  few  men  were 
more  notorious  in  London  than  Samuel  Birch,  the 
best  confectioner  in  "  the  city,"  and  first  purveyor 
of  turtle-soup  in  the  whole  capital.  Inheriting  a 
fine  business  from  his  father,  the  famous  Cheapside 
pastrycook  drew  to  his  shop  epicures  from  every 
quarter  of  the  town.  The  merchant,  who  slipt 
away  from  his  office  at  mid-day  for  **  a  plate  of 
turtle  at  Birch's,"  took  his  luncheon  in  a  room 
thronged  with  gourmets  from  the  Inns  of  Court, 
and  dandies  from  Bond  Street,  Forest  venison 
could  be  bought  at  Birch's,  as  well  as  all  the  good 
things  usually  provided  at  a  restaurant.  But 
during   the   turtle   season    No.    15,    Cornhill    was 


A   CONFLICT   OF   WIT.  321 

emphatically  a  turtle  house,  and  customers  seldom 
entered  it  without  a  view  to  turtle.  "On  the 
tables,"  says  Dick  Humelbergius  Secundus,  "are 
placed  the  lemons,  cayenne,  and  other  condi- 
ments, with  toasted  French  bread  for  the  free  use 
of  the  visitants." 

But  Samuel  Birch,  whose  business  passed  even- 
tually to  Messrs.  Ring  and  Rymer  of  gastronomic 
renown,  was  much  more  than  a  successful  dealer  in 
table  delicacies.  A  man  of  wit  and  lettters,  he  pro- 
duced plays  that  held  the  stage,  and  books  Ahat 
are  still  readable,  though  seldom  read.  One  of  his 
musical  dramas,  "  The  Adopted  Child,"  was  popu- 
lar long  after  the  author  had  killed  his  last  turtle 
and  breathed  his  last  breath.  His  temper  was  so 
amiable  and  his  humour  so  lively  that  he  heartily 
enjoyed  the  joke  when,  on  his  appointment  to  be 
colonel  of  the  City  Militia,  it  was  proposed  to 
style  him  Marshal  Tureen.  "  By  all  means," 
the  confectioner  cried  gaily  to  the  originator  of 
this  witticism,  a  brother  officer  in  the  Militia  who, 
as  a  great  flour  and  corn  merchant,  regarded  con- 
fectioners disdainfully,  "  and  you  shall  be  Marshal 
Sacks. *^  Scarcely  had  the  dealer  in  flour,  a  pom- 
pous and  choleric  gentleman,  felt  the  first  sting  of 
this^blow  from  the  Birch,  when  his  annoyance  was 
increased  by  a  roar  of  laughter  from  the  hearers 
of    the     smart    reply.       Neither     of     the     prin- 

VOL.  I.  Y 


322  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

cipals  in  this  duel  survived  his  recollection  of  the 
affair.  But  whilst  Birch  always  smiled  cheerily  at 
acquaintances  who  greeted  him  as  Marshal  Tureen, 
the  "  other  marshal"  reddened  with  rage  whenever 
an  allusion  to  "  sacks"  was  made  in  his  hearing. 
An  efficient  officer  of  his  regiment,  Marshal  Tureen 
gained  some  credit  as  a  military  author  fipom  his 
essay  on  "  National  Defence." 

So  cheery  and  clever  a  gentleman  as  Mr.  Birch 
could  not  fail  to  win  the  approval  of  his  fellow- 
citijens.  Throwing  himself  into  local  politics,  he 
figured  as  common  councillor,  alderman,  and  Lord 
Mayor,  the  year  of  his  mayoralty  being  the  famous 
1815.  When  Chantrey's  statue  of  George  the  Third 
was  placed  in  the  Council  Chamber  of  Guildhall, 
during  the  Waterloo  year.  Birch's  pen  produced  the 
inscription  for  it.  Fortunate  in  business  and  fiiend- 
ship,  this  prince  of  pastrycooks  was  also  fortunate 
in  his  children.  His  daughter  married  Lamartine 
the  poet,  and  one  of  his  sons,  a  good  classic  student, 
begot  a  family  of  scholars. 

With  the  exception  of  their  lightest  meagre  soups, 
some  of  which  were  almost  as  thin  as  water,  our 
ancestors'  soups  were  notable  for  thickness.  Most 
of  their  vegetable  pottages  were  thickened  with 
meat  and  grain,  and  most  of  their  fish  broths  were 
unstrained  messes  that  on  cooling  resembled  brawn 
in  firmness  and   substantiality.     The  flesh  soups, 


LEBLANO'S   GARBURES.  323 

like  our  "  mock  turtle"  and  ox-tail,"  were  served 
with  pieces  of  flesh  floating  in  their  heavy  liquor. 
The  clear  gravy  soup  of  the  modern  English  table 
is  a  comparatively  recent  invention,  which  resulted 
from  the  efibrts  of  chefs  to  enrich  their  meagre 
soups  with  forbidden  ingredients,  and  at  the  same 
time  escape  clerical  detection  and  censure. 

It  is  told  of  the  Count  de  Flavigny,  whilom  French 
Minister  at  Parma,  that  he  commanded  his  chef, 
Leblanc,  to  learn  how  the  garbures  served  on  meagre 
days  at  the  H6tel  de  Noailles  were  prepared.  Being 
on  friendly  terms  with  the  maker  of  these  garhuresy 
Leblanc  had  no  great  trouble  in  ascertaining  that 
their  excellence  was  due  to  a  subtle  use  of  gravy 
extracted  from  white  meats.  The  chef,  who  thus 
dared  to  disobey  the  rules  of  the  church,  was  at 
infinite  pains  to  clarify  the  meat  juice,  which  he 
furtively  added  to  his  clear  herb  pottages,  alike  to 
the  advancement  of  his  fame  and  the  delight  of  his 
patron.  The  "doctored"  garbures  being  in  no 
degree  discoloured  or  clouded  by  the  clear  gravy, 
their  unusual  goodness  was  attributed  to  the  pious 
skill  of  the  cook,  who  was  applauded  for  superior 
art  when  he  should  have  been  punished  for  satanic 
artifice. 

Acting  on  instructions  that  were  given  in  strict 
confidence,  Leblanc  became  no  less  famous  than  his 
teacher  as   a   maker   of  garbv/res.     In  Paris,   the 

Y  2 


324  A   BOOK   ABOUT   THE   TABLE. 

Count's  table  on  fast  days  was  never  without  guests 
who  by  merest  accident  happened  to  "  drop  in"  at 
his  dinner  hour.  The  friends  who  suri^ounded  him 
at  his  country  seat  were  no  less  delighted  with  his 
meagre  pottages.  Leblanc  was  pressed  on  all  sides 
with  entreaties  for  the  secret  of  his  success.  No 
one  was  more  curious  and  urgent  for  enlightenment 
than  the  cur^  of  the  parish  in  which  Flavigny's 
estate  lay.  But  Leblanc  was  faithful  to  his  promise 
of  secresy.  **  Sir  curate,"  he  answered  his  clerical 
petitioner,  "  I  will  tell  you  how  I  make  my  garbures 
when  you  are  a  bishop."  Leblanc  subsequently  kept 
a  Restaurant  in  the  Rue  de  la  Harpe,  where  he 
added  to  his  renown  by  the  ham  pies  which 
Grimod  de  la  Reyniere  could  never  mention  without 
emotion. 

The  practice  of  strengthening  clear  maigre  broths 
with  the  colourless  juice  of  white  meats  having 
become  general,  it  was  not  long  before  chefs  pro- 
duced clear  soups,  that  strong  with  the  gravy  of  red 
meats,  pleased  the  eye  whilst  charming  the  palate. 
Of  clear  gravy  soup  there  are,  at  least,  a  hundred 
varieties. 


END   OP   THR    FIRST    VOLUME. 


A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 


VOL.  II. 


\ 


\ 


CONTENTS 


OF 


THE    SECOND    VOLUME. 


CHAPT£K. 

• 

PAOB 

1. 

Fish    .           .           .           ' 

1 

II. 

Joints  and  Stkakr  . 

23 

III. 

Pie  and  Pie-Tart 

U 

IV. 

Poultry 

71 

V. 

Goose 

97 

VI. 

Game 

.    113 

VTT. 

• 

Bread  and  Vegetables 

,    133 

vm. 

Thk  Salad    . 

.    164 

IX. 

Eggs  .        '  . 

,    185 

X. 

Dessert. 

,     197 

XI. 

• 

Ordering  op  Feasts 

.    223 

XII. 

Cook-Shops  and  Club-Houses 

241 

xm. 

The  Folk-Lorb  op  Feeding 

,    256 

XIV. 

Epicures       .           .           .           . 

270 

XV. 

Political  Gastronomy 

297 

XVI. 

Cooks  and  their  Natures 

.    320 

XVII. 

Cookery  Books 

>           < 

.    339 

A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 


CHAPTER    L 

FISH. 

"  The  King's  Bench  Reports  have  cook'd  np  an  odd  dish. 
An  action  for  damages.  Fry  against  Fish, 
Bat  sure,  if  for  damages  action  could  lie, 
It  certainly  must  have  been  Fish  against  Fry." 

Morning  Cubonicle  "  Efigbams." 

**  Le  white-haitf  poisson  blanc,  est  a  coup  sur  un  des  mets  les  plus 
populaires  de  Londres.  Je  me  rappelle  avoir  6t6  invito,  sans  autre 
motif  qu'invitation  ordinaire,  par  un  de  mes  amis  qui  arrivait  de 
rinde,  h.  venir  manger  les  white-bait  a  Grennisch.*' — Alexandre 
DuHAS,  "Grand  Dictionnaibb  de  Cuisine." 

"  At  Greenwhich,  having  already  partaken  of  plain  white-bait,  I 
helped  myself  to  some  out  of  a  second  dish ;  it  was  devilled  and 
fitted  for  skinning  the  tongue." — M.  Taine's  "  Notes  on  England," 
Translated  by  W.  F.  Rae. 

TO  discredit  Qur  ancestors,  as  judges  of  fish,  it  is 
enough  to  say  that  they  sugared  their  oysters, 
and  prized  the  pike  more  highly  than  any  other 
fish.  If  the  reader  requires  further  evidence  of 
their  inability  to  appreciate  the  finer  flavours  of  the 
inhabitants  of  the  water,  he  may  find  it  in  the  scores 
of  old  receipts  for  stews  and  messes,  in  which  a 
dozen  different  kinds  of  fish  were  mingled,  so  that 

VOL.  II.  B 


2  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE   TABLE. 

it  was  impossible  for  the  palate  to  distinguish  the 
various  ingredients  of  the  dish. 

Official  records  put  it  beyond  question  that  the 
pike  was  thus  honoured  by  our  discerning  fore- 
fathers. Edward  the  First's  advisers  gave  the  luce 
{i.e.f  pike)  a  higher  value  than  fresh  salmon,  and 
rated  it  at  ten  times  the  worth  of  the  best 
turbot  and  cod.  Though  its  market  price  fell  in 
times  of  abundance,  it  was  in  great  request  for 
luxurious  tables  throughout  the  dark  ages  of 
our  gastronomic  history.  One  of  Chaucer's  wor- 
thies— the  **  frankelein"  who  **  was  Epicure's  owen 
Bone" — is  especially  commended  for  always  having 
"  many  a  breme  and  many  a  luce  in  stewe."  In 
our  eighth  Henry's  time,  whilst  a  large  pike  would 
ordinarily  fetch  twice  the  price  of  a  house  lamb,  a 
small  one  {i.e.,  a  pickerel)  commonly  sold  for  more 
than  a  fat  capon.  Indeed,  so  long  as  they  ate  fish 
from  religious  sentiment  or  servile  submission  to 
economic  ordinances,  the  English  knew  little  of  the 
distinctive  excellences  of  the  finny  creatures.  On 
ceasing  to  devour  them  as  good  Christians  or  good 
citizens,  they  began  to  study  and  enjoy  them  as 
good  epicures. 

"  Pike,"  says  Mr.  Hay  ward,  "  are  capital  if  bled 
in  the  tail  and  gills  as  soon  as  caught ;  they  die 
much  whiter,  and  look  better  at  table.  Pike  is 
capitally  dressed  at  the  White  Hart,  at  Salisbury." 


THE  BEST  WAY   OP    COOKING  PIKE.  3 

A  familiar  adage  trains  us  to  look  for  differences  of 
taste  and  sentiment  in  culinary  affairs.  The  epicure 
who  thinks  pike  "  capital"  is  all  the  more  likely  to 
have  enough  of  the  good  thing,  because  another 
epicure  thinks  it  a  bad  one.  It  may,  however,  be 
questioned  whether  pike  can  by  any  cooking  be 
rendered  "  capital "  to  the  fastidious  feeder.  Pos- 
sibly Mr.  Hayward  only  meant  that  the  fish  cooked 
in  his  way  was  capital  in  comparison  with  pike  cooked 
otherwise.  To  form  the  most  favourable  opinion  of 
pike,  the  reader  should  boil  an  eight-pound  fish  in 
salt  water,  and  on  the  morrow,  when  it  has  cooled 
and  "  flakes"  readily,  fry  the  flakes  with  butter. 
Pike  so  managed  is  decent  food,  but  not  capital. 

In  using  the  old  word  "  luce,"  readers  should 
remember  that  in  strict  parlance  it  is  not  applicable 
to  a  young  fish,  or  indeed  to  any  pike  whose  growth 
was  incomplete.  The  Elizabethan  pike  had  seven 
ages.  It  was  first  called  a  fry,  then  a  gilthead,  then 
a  pod,  then  a  jack,  then  a  pickerel,  then  a  pike, 
and,  finally,  on  attaining  its  full  size,  a  luce.  The 
salmon  had  four  ages ;  beginning  life  as  a  gravellin, 
it  became  a  salmon-peale,  then  a  pug,  and  finally  a 
salmon  proper. 

It  was  some  pike-gorging  glutton  of  the  fifteenth 
century  who  threw  a  large  pike  into  the  Kaiser  wag 
lake,  after  fitting  its  neck  and  gills  with  a  brass 
ring,  bearing  the  inscription,  **  I  am  the  fish  which 

B  2 


4  A  BOOK   ABOUT  THE   TABLE. 

was  first  of  all  put  into  this  lake  by  the  hands  of  the 
Governor  of  the  Universe,  Frederick  II.,  the  5th 
October,  1230."  The  joke  succeeded  beyond  the 
hopes  of  the  practical  jester.  After  astounding  the 
fisherman,  who  had  the  good  fortune  to  net  it,  this 
collar-wearing  pike  was  exhibited  to  thousands  of 
credulous  believers  in  the  lying  legend,  and  figured 
for  generations  amongst  the  marvels  of  the  universe. 
A  score  of  books  have  been  written  to  demonstrate 
the  truth  or  falseness  of  its  alleged  history ;  and  the 
authors  who  allude  cursorily  to  its  capture*  and  the 
ensuing  controversy  may  be  counted  by  hundreds. 
What  passed  for  the  pike's  skeleton  was  long  ex- 
hibited in  the  Mannheim  Cathedral,  until  a  prying, 
meddlesome  anatomist,  own  brother  to  Words- 
worth's "  physician,"  discovered  that  the  backbone 
of  the  wonderful  relic  had  been  lengthened  to  the 
requirements  of  the  story  with  vertebra9  which 
could  not  have  pertained  to  the  big  fish  during  its 
life. 

Our  ancestors'  barbarism  in  serving  oysters  with 
sugar  and  honey  was  due  to  the  influence  of  the 
Romans,  who  were  guilty  of  the  same  outrage  against 
decency.  By  the  way,  the  Romans  have  gained  far 
too  much  credit  for  gastronomic  discernment  fi'om 
their  readiness  to  buy  British  oysters  at  a  hundred 
sesterces  per  basket,  a  price  that  by  comparison 
makes  our  best  natives,  at  three  shillings  a  dozen. 


BARBABOaS   MALTREATMENT   OP    NATIVES.  0 

things  of  canine  cheapness.  The  Roman  pontiffs, 
like  reverend  gourmands  of  more  recent  periods, 
delighted  in  eating  money,  and  would  have  cared 
less  for  British  oysters  if  they  could  have  bought 
them  for  a  trifle.  Epicures  who  improved  our 
"  natives"  by  coating  them  with  honey,  and  keeping 
them  until  they  were  putrid,  cannot  have  relished, 
or  even  had  a  sense  for,  the  delicate  characteristics 
of  the  fish.  Not  that  all  the  gourmands  took  their 
oysters,  sweet  or  rotten.  But  these  tastes  of  a  few 
morbid  epicures  rouse  a  suspicion  that  the  one  fault 
of  the  oyster's  flavour  was  generally  mistaken  by 
the  old  Romans  for  its  distinguishing  merit.  None 
of  their  several  modes  of  cooking  the  oyster  were 
intelligent.  Nor  is  there  much  to  admire  in 
Apicius's  simple  and  rather  clumsy  method  of  pre- 
serving the  fish,  although  the  proqess  is  chiefly 
accountable  for  his  gastronomic  fame.  He  merely 
washed  his  oysters  in  vinegar,  and  packed  them  in 
vessels  dressed  with  pitch.  Thus  prepared  and 
packed  for  the  voyage  from  Britain  to  Rome,  and 
for  transmission  from  Rome  to  the  country-houses 
of  her  gourmets,  our  "  natives"  were  strongly  redo- 
lent of  pitch  and  something  worse  before  they  came 
to  table. 

The  ancients,  however,  did  well  in  using  raw 
oysters  as  a  pre-prandial  whet.  They  were  eaten 
for  this  purpose  at  Athens  and  Rome.     There  is  no 


b  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE   TABLE. 

evidence  that  the  English  medisBvalists  followed  so 
good  an  example,  though  the  learned  author  of  the 
"  Tabella  Cibaria"  went  too  far  when  he  accused 
them  of  neglecting  their  fat  and  juicy  "  natives." 
There  was  never  a  time  when  our  epicures  disdained 
to  cultivate,  or  at  least  to  plunder,  the  oyster-bed, 
and  Elizabethan  literature  abounds  with  evidence  of 
the  high  esteem  for  oysters  in  Shakespeare*s  Lon- 
don. In  his  notes  on  the  English  capital,  Paul 
Hentzner  says,  "  The  best  oysters  are  sold  here  in 
great  quantities."  Gastronomers  had  already  for- 
bidden the  consumption  of  oysters  in  the  hot 
months  whose  names  contain  no  letter  R.  After 
noticing  the  varieties  of  fish  caught  in  the  Thames — 
which  in  his  days  afforded  barbels,  trout,  chevin, 
perch,  smelts,  bream,  roach,  dace,  gudgeon, 
flounders,  shrimps,  and  carp,  as  well  as  salmon — 
Harrison  observes,  "  Albeit  our  oisters  are  generallie 
forborne  in  the  foure  hot  moneths  of  the  yeare,  that 
is  to  saie,  Maie,  June,  Julie,  and  August,  which 
are  void  of  the  letter  R ;  yet  in  some  places  they 
be  continuallie  eaten,  where  they  be  kept  in  pits,  as 
I  have  knowen  by  experience." 

Oysters  were  neglected  in  these  months  not  only 
for  their  want  of  flavour  and  condition,  but  also 
because  they  were  thought  provocative  in  hot 
weather  of  the  same  immoralities  as  in  France  are 
attributed  to  excessive  indulgence  in  mackerel.     In 


OYSTERS   OUT   OF   SEASON.  7 

his  "Dyet's  Dry  Humour/'  Buttes  notices  this 
ill  effect  of  oysters  in  the  hot  season.  It  is  strange 
how  divers  kinds  of  fish — albeit  commended  by  the 
Church  as  food  fit  for  religious  seasons — have  been 
accused  of  stimulating  vicious  appetites  and  en- 
couraging evil  propensities.  Salmon  had  formerly 
an  evil  fame  for  disposing  its  eaters  to  drunken- 
ness, whilst  giving  them  dyspepsia. 

Remarking  on  the  old  ordinance  against  oysters, 
Grimod  de  la  Reyniere  insisted  that,  out  of  regard 
to  their  defective  condition,  they  should  be  excluded 
fi^om  the  epicurean  table  from  the  beginning  of  May 
till  the  beginning  of  December.  "  Nous  ne  con- 
seillerons  Ji  personne  d'en  manger  en  Septembre ; 
elles  n'y  sont  ni  assez  fraiches  ni  assez  grasses  pour 
piquer  la  sensuality  d*un  gourmand.  Ce  n'est  gufere 
qu'au  commencement  de  D6cembre  qu'elles  sont 
vraiment  dignes  de  figurer  sur  sa  table." 

But  whilst  forbidding  oysters  in  August,  social 
sentiment  declares  with  singular  inconsistency  that 
they  come  into  season  on  the  fifth  day  of  that 
month,  i.e.,  on  St.  James's  Day  (old  style),  when 
the  priests  of  Catholic  England  blessed  the  apple- 
trees,  and  commended  their  fruit  to  the  saint's  pro- 
tection, in  the  terms  of  a  formal  prayer  and  bene- 
diction preserved  in  the  Sarum  Manual.  The 
patron-saint  of  apple-trees   in    our  Catholic  time. 


8  A   BOOK   ABOUT   THE   TABLE. 

St.  James    also    became   in    a  comically  irregular 
way  the  patron-saint  of  our  oyster-beds. 

No   pilgrim   visited    the    shrine    of    St.    James 
at  Compostella  without  taking  away  with  him  a  hal- 
lowed   scallop-shell.     The  fish,   abounding  in  the 
adjacent  sea,  was    the    saint's    special    care;    its 
shell   was  the    emblem    of  service    at    his   altar. 
Throughout    Christendom,    wherever    a   mess    of 
scallops  were  served  to  a  pious  traveller,  the  saint 
was  thanked   for  the  wholesome    food.      By  the 
pilgrim  who  had  earned   the    right  to  bear   one, 
the  sanctified  scallop  was  an   amulet  against  evil 
spirits,  a  memorial  of  pious  adventure,  and  a  badge 
of  honour.  It  was  also  the  cup  from  which  he  drank 
at  the  way-side  spring,  and  the  spoon  with  which  he 
took  his  share  of  pot-luck  at  the  Pilgrim's  Inn.     To 
his  dying  day  he  often  used  it  as  his  spoon  and  cup. 
Erasmus  in   the    **  Pilgrimages"  was  jocose  about 
the  scallop-shells  brought  to  England  from  Com- 
postella.    But  the  pilgrim,  who  knew  little  of  the 
scholar  and  less  of  his  writings,  continued  to  be 
known 

^tf    '  "^y  ^^8  scallop  shell  and  hat, 

rfj^  mOi  //O  And  by  his  sandal  shoon." 

And  on  the  return  of  St.  James's  Day  the  saint's 
devotees  raised  at  street-corners,  in  his  honour, 
mimic  temples  that  were  constructed  of   scallop- 


FOR   THE    SAKE    OP   THE    SHELLS.  ^ 

shells.  A  candle  having  been  placed  in  one  of  these 
scallop-shell  **  grottoes,"  way-farers  were  solicited 
for  pence  to  defray  the  cost  of  the  emblematical 
taper.  "  Please,  Sir,  think  of  the  grotto,  and  give 
the  good  saint  a  candle."  The  earlier  grottoes  were 
made  altogether  of  scallop-shells.  But  either  for 
want  of  a  snflBcient  supply  of  the  proper  material, 
or  because  the  smaller  shells  besides  being  plentiful, 
could  be  used  effectively  in  the  details  of  a  grotto, 
builders  in  course  of  time  combined  scallop-shells 
and  oyster-shells  in  the  toy-edifices.  The  two 
kinds  of  shells  having  been  thus  brought  together, 
the  one  soon  imparted  its  sacredness  to  the  other ; 
and  the  Reformation  having  put  a  stop  to  the  Com- 
postella  pilgrimages  and  the  influx  of  hallowed 
shells  of  the  larger  kind,  St.  James's  grottoes  were 
ere  long  built  altogether  with  oyster-shells.  Hence- 
forth the  populace  regarded  oysters  as  enjoying  the 
saint's  special  care,  and  to  justify  the  architectural 
use  of  new  shells  on  the  saint's  day,  discovered  that 
oysters  came,  in  a  certain  sense,  into  season  some 
four  weeks  before  they  were  good  for  eating.  The 
fish  might  be  poor  fare,  but  the  shells  were  wanted 
for  grottoes  in  the  first  week  of  August.  When  it 
had  thus  become  the  fashion  to  open  oysters  for 
the  sake  of  their  shells  in  an  anciently  prohibited 
season,  social  sentiment  speedily  discovered  a  reason 
for  eating  the  oysters.     **  Whoever  eats  oysters  on 


10  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

St.  James's  Day  will  never  want  money,"  runs  the 
proverb,  which  the  grotto-makers  invented  to  dis- 
credit their  antagonists,  who  declared  it  wrong 
to  open  oysters  in  a  month  without  an  R. 
During  a  considerable  portion  of  our  quite  recent 
history  we  had  laws  forbidding  oysters  to  be  eaten 
before  the  25th  of  July,  new  St.  James's  Day.  But 
these  laws,  whether  originating  in  Acts  of  Parlia- 
ment, or  in  conventions  sanctioned  by  the  legisla- 
ture, have  been  abolished ;  and  at  present  oysters 
may  be  lawfully  taken  and  sold  the  whole  year 
round. 

Authorities  diflfer  as  to  the  right  number  of 
oysters  for  a  pre-prandial  whet.  Six  oysters  are 
enough  to  rouse  the  appetite  of  ordinary  feeders ; 
but  gourmands  have  been  known  to  prelude  a  heavy 
dinner  with  many  dozens.  Baron  Graham,  the 
placid  judge  of  whom  Jekyll  said  "No  one  but 
his  semptress  could  ruffle  him,"  on  learning  the 
special  virtue  of  uncooked  "  natives,"  inquired  how 
many  he  should  take  for  an  appetite.  '*  Bat  away 
at  them  till  you  are  hungry,"  was  the  reply.  The 
Baron,  who  could  never  see  a  joke  or  a  barrister's 
argument,  acted  on  his  instructions.  After  dis- 
posing of  ten  dozen,  he  remarked  with  mild  plain- 
tiveness  to  an  observer  of  his  proceedings. 
"  Something  must  be  wrong  in  me,  I  have  eaten 
one    hundred   and  twenty    oysters,   and   'pon   my 


ONLY   THIRTY-TWO   DOZEN.  11 

honour,  I   don't  think  I   am  quite  as  hungry  as 
when  I  began." 

Brillat-Savarin's  preprandial  whet  seldom  ex- 
ceeded three  or  four  dozen  oysters ;  but  when  he  en- 
tertained the  SieurLaperte  at  ^^tete-a-tete  dinner,  he 
ate  a  thirteenth  dozen  in  deference  to  his  guest's 
special  gastronomic  passion.  Laperte,  who  had 
vowed  to  eat  bis  soul  of  oysters,  disposed  of  thirty- 
two  dozen  without  fully  accomplishing  his  purpose, 
and  then  turned  his  attention  to  dinner  with 
powers  neither  weakened  nor  embarrassed  by  the 
prelude.  "  Nous  dinames,"  says  Brillat-Savaria 
of  his  friend's  demeanour  after  the  oysters,  "  et  il 
se  comporta  avec  la  vigeur  et  la  tenue  d'un  homme 
qui  aurait  ^t^  a  jeun."  The  reader  needs  no 
reminder  of  the  Vicomte  de  Vieil-Castel's  whet  of 
twenty-four  dozen  "  d'huitres  d'Ostende.",  It  was 
over  the  grave  of  such  an  one  that  a  friendly 
hand  put  this  inscription. 

"  Tom,  Tivhom  to-day  no  noise  stirs, 
Lies  bnried  in  these  cloisters ; 
If,  at  the  last  trump. 
He  does  not  quickly  jump, 
Only  cry  *  Oysters.* 

Though  he  relished  oyster-sauce,  and  commended 
oysters  as  a  flavouring  ingredient  of  beef-steak 
pudding.  Dr.  Kitchiner  resembled  most  epicures 
of  his  time  in  valuing  the  "  native"  chiefly  for  its 


12  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

power  to  revive  a  jaded  %appetite,  when  taken  in 
the  freshness  of  life  before  the  advent  of  soup. 
*'  Those,"  he  observes,  "  who  wish  to  "-enjoy  this 
delicious  restorative  in  its  utmost  perfection,  must 
eat  it  the  moment  it  is  opened,  with  its  own  gravy 
in  the  under  shell;  if  not  eaten  while  absolutely 
alive,  its  flavour  and  spirit  are  lost !  The  true 
lover  of  an  oyster  will  have  some  regard  for  the 
feelings  of  his  little  favourite,  and  will  never  aban- 
don it  to  the  mercy  of  a  bungling  operator."  It 
is  still  the  custom  of  Lincoln's  Inn  Hall  in  the 
terms  when  oysters  are  seasonable,  to  place  a 
barrel  of  natives  on  the  bar  table,  some  twenty 
minutes  before  the  dinner-hour  on  a  certain  day 
of  each  week.  Any  barrister  of  the  Inn  may  help 
himself  to  oysters  from  the  barrel,  but  he  must 
open  them  himself,  a  limitation  of  his  privilege 
that  determines  many  a  young  lawyer  to  leave  the 
barrel  alone.  Oysters  are  delicious  and  their  shells 
are  useful ;  but  nothing  can  be  said  in  behalf  of 
such  a  compound  of  fish  and  grit  as  a  bungling 
operator  at  the  Lincoln's  Inn  table  often  puts  be- 
tween his  teeth. 

'*  What  capital  things  oysters  would  be,"  said 
the  wit,  "  if  we  could  only  feed  our  servants  on  the 
shells."  Some  fifteen  years  since,  Mr.  Frank 
Buckland  observed  enthusiastically  at  a  club-dinner 
"May   I  live  to    bring  the  oyster  to  every   poor 


KOYAL    SELFISHNESS.  13 

man's  door  1"  "  The  shells  are  there  already," 
rejoined  a  friend,  duly  mindful  of  Mr.  Samuel 
Weller's  philosophical  speculations  on  the  myste- 
rious aflBnity  of  poverty  and  oyster  ^ella3  Alas,  iM^  ^  ^*^ 
the  oyster,  of  any  kind,  is  further  than  ever  from 
the  poor  man's  table,  and  the  native  is  fast  be- 
coming the  luxury  of  none  but  millionaires.  When 
it  has  passed  beyond  the  reach  of  the  moderately 
prosperous,  it  will  be  more  than  ever  delicious  to 
those  of  the  plutocrats  whose  selfish  pleasures  are 
heightened  by  the  consideration  of  misery,  just  as  the 
saints  of  heaven  were  said  by  the  gentlest  of  Angli- 
can prelates  to  feel  their  felicity  most  vividly  when 
reminded  of  the  tortures  of  hell.  "  I  should  enjoy 
my  expensive  dinners  much  more,"  said  an  un- 
amiable  epicure,  "  if  I  did  not  know  that  a  poor 
man  may  dine  fairly  well  for  a  trifle,  and  that 
hunger  can  make  almost  any  meal  palatable." 

In  ancient  times,  potentates  were  quick  to  claim 
for  their  own  plates  whatever  was  best  of  the 
creatures  provided  for  man's  use.  The  sturgeon 
owes  its  royal  rank  to  this  royal  selfishness.  Gatis 
of  Syria  forbade  her  subjects  to  buy  sturgeon,  or  any 
other  prime  fish,  until  she  had  exercised,  or  declined 
to  exercise,  her  right  of  pre-emption.  In  England 
the  sturgeon  has  been  styled  royal  ever  since  Henry 
the  First  reserved  it  for  his  special  board,  as  a 
creature  too  superb  for  the  feasts  of  vassals.     The 


14  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE, 

old  kiogs  of  France  were  also  of  opinion  that  Provi- 
dence designed  the  grandest  of  eatable  fishes  for 
regal  feeders.  The  Parisian  poissardes  used  to  pr^ 
Bent  their  monarch  with  a  sturgeon  every  year,  and 
portraits  of  the  sturgeons  thus  put  upon  his  table 
were  preserved  in  the  archives  of  the  state.  Changing 
its  style  with  the  times,  the  sturgeon  became  Im- 
perial under  the  first  Napoleon,  and  often  appeared 
at  the  banquets  of  the  Imperial  arch-chancellor.  It 
once  happened  that  Cambac^rfes  received  on  the 
morning  of  a  grand  dinner  two  prodigious  stur- 
geons, one  weighing  162  livres,  the  other  187 
livres.  Ever  frugal  and  ostentatious  in  his  hospi- 
talities, the  great  epicure  contrived  that  both  fish 
should  be  showriy  but  only  one  eaten  at  the  feast. 
The  smaller  sturgeon,  dished  as  though  it  were 
cooked,  was  first  borne  towards  the  table  by  four 
.valets,  preceded  by  a  single  flutist  and  two  violinists, 
playing  a  suitable  air.  Each  of  the  valets  bore  in 
one  hand  a  flaming  torch,  whilst  his  other  hand 
supported  the  dish.  A  Swiss,  with  halberd  in  hand, 
led  the  procession.  To  the  delight  of  the  company, 
the  enormous  fish  was  conveyed  thus  pompously  to 
the  top  of  the  table,  when  to  their  dismay  it  slipped 
from  the  dish  to  the  floor.  Obeying  instructions, 
one  of  the  four  liveried  bearers  had  made  a  false 
step.  In  a  trice  the  fish  was  taken  from  the  ground, 
and  carried  away  as  unfit  for  the  table,  whilst  the 


LOVEES   OP   MUSIC.  15 

guests  deplored  the  accident.  An  interval  of  two 
minutes,  and  the  larger  sturgeon  was  brought  in 
with  a  concert  of  flutes  and  violins.  Twb  flutes  and 
four  violins  proelaimed  its  superiority  to  the  fish 
which  had  been  attended  by  only  three  musicians.^ 
In  all  other  respects,  the  second  procession  re- 
sembled the  first.  Another  version  of  the  same 
incident  is  given  in  "  The  Art  of  Dining,*'  by  Mr. 
Hayward,  Q.O.,  who  substitutes  two  huge  tui'bots  . 
for  the  two  prodigious  sturgeons,  and  makes  Cardinal 
Fesch  officiate  as  h6st  instead  of  the  Arch-Chancellor 
Cambac^res.  It  is  enough  to  allude  to  Domitian's 
monstrous  turbot,  celebrated  in  Juvenal's  fourth 
satire. 

Worshipped  in  ancient  days  by  the  Egyptians, 
the  eel  is  honoured  abundantly  by  modern  epicures. 
By  the  way,  it  is  strange  how  few  cooks  and  fisher- 
men are  aware  that  to  reduce  the  writhing  creature 
to  passive  stillness  it  is  only  necessary  to  cut  ofi*  the 
tip  of  the  tail.  Rqmove  ever  so  small  a  piece  of 
the  tail,  and  a  child  may  be  trusted  to  handle  it. 
Stricken  with  paralysis,  it  is  heedless  of  music, 
which  is  said  to  be  so  powerful  over  its  species,  that 
eels  may  be  lured  to  nets  by  the  melodies  of  fisher- 
men. The  Scottish  harper  who  "  harp'd  a  fish  out 
o'  the  sa't  water"  performed  no  great  marvel,  if  we 
may  credit  all  the  stories  of  carp  and  chad  drawn  to 
destruction  by   the   music  of  bells  and  castanets. 


16  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

There  is  no  recorded  case  of  a  fish  voluntarily 
offering  itself  to  the  carver's  knife  on  the  ringing  of 
the  second  dinner-bell  j  but  at  Rotterdam  and  other 
places  tame  carp  are  quick  in  answering  their 
keeper's  call  when  he  summons  them  to  a  meal. 
In  some  parts  of  Germany  it  is  the  custom  to  fit 
nets  with  little  rows  of  bells,  whose  chiming  is  be- 
lieved to  attract  certain  kinds  of  fish. 

The  perch  does  not  care  much  for  music,  though 
he  will  respond  to  raps  on  the  side  of  his  tank ;  but 
Mr.  Cholmondeley  Pennell,  a  capital  writer  about 
fish,  asserts  on  good  grounds  that,  however  insen- 
sible to  harmony,  a  perch  may  be  charmed  by  its 
own  eye.  On  removing  a  hook  from  the  jaws  of  a 
greedy  little  perch,  he  saw  one  of  the  creature's  eyes 
adhering  to  the  metal.  The  fish,  too  small  for  the 
pot,  having  been  restored  to  its  native  water.  Lake 
Windermere,  Mr.  Pennell  baited  his  hook  with  the 
eye  so  unfortunately  torn  from  the  fish.  The  pain 
of  the  accident  must  have  been  trivial,  for  scarcely 
three  minutes  had  passed  since  it  was  thrown  back 
into  the  water,  when  the  maimed  perch  again  gorged 
the  hook  baited  with  the  eye.  Was  the  creature 
fascinated  by  its  own  eye  ?  or  was  it  animated  by  a 
reasonable  desire  to  recover  a  property  of  which 
it  had  been  unjustly  deprived. 

Mr.  Hayward,  no  mean  authority,  asserts  that, 
though    pond    carp  acquire  a  muddy  taste,  a  fat 


SA.UOB   FOB   BED  MULLET.  17 

river  carp  is  a  dish  for  a  prince.     M.  Verdelet  de 
Bourbonne  was  so  fond  of  carps'  tongues  that  he 
once  bought  three  thousand  carps,  whose  tongues 
were  extracted  and  cooked  into  a  single  dish.     The 
carp,  "  bedroped  with  gold"  (Pope),  has  carried  off 
more  than  his  due  share  of  authors'  flattery.     The 
John  Dor^e,  beloved  by  Quin,  is  another  fish  which 
has  been  commended  extravagantly.     Even  its  ex- 
ternal disfigurements  have  been  accounted  virtues. 
Like  the  haddock,  disdained  by  Foodie  Byng,  it  is 
said  to  bear  the  marks  of  St.  Peter's  fingers.     As 
for  the  John's  **  wrinkled  and  depressed  shape,"  it 
was  other  and  lovelier  before  St.  Christopher  put  a 
heavy  foot  upon  it.    The  whiting  has  been  praised 
more  discreetly,   and  justifies   the  eulogies  of  its 
admirers.     Mr.  Disraelij^  whose  novels  contain  many 
excellent  remarks  on  cookery,  calls  it  **  the  chicken 
of  the  deep."     Bed  mullet  is  so  perfect  in  itself  that 
it  can  scarcely  have  been  improved  by  the  sauce 
which  Ude  invented  for  its  benefit.     "  He  refuses  to 
pay  sixpence  for  my  sauce  1"  the  indignant  cook 
exclaimed,  when  an  economical  member  of  Crock- 
ford's  had  struck  the  item  from  his  bill.     "  Does  he 
imagine  that  red  mullets  come  out  of  the  sea  with 
my  sauce  in  their  pockets."    However  objectionable 
as  a  needless  interference  with  a  natural  flavour, 
Ude's   sauce  for  red  mullet  was  superior  to  the 
Spanish  sauce  which  James  the  Second  magnified  as 

VOL.  II.  0 


18  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

the  one  proper  relish  for  flesh,  fowl,  and  fish.  "  He 
did  mightily  magnify  his  sauce,"  Pepys  says  of  the 
Duke  of  York  (1668-9),  "which  he  did  then  eat 
with  everything,  and  said  it  was  the  best  universal 
sauce  in  the  world,  it  being  taught  him  by  the 
Spanish  Embassador,  made  of  some  parsley  and  dry 
toast,  beat  in  a  mortar,  together  with  vinegar,  salt, 
and  a  little  pepper  I"  Giles  Rose  had  reason  to 
think  meanly  of  the  Duke's  gastronomic  perception. 
The  man  who  could  admire  such  a  sauce  deserved 
to  lose  his  three  kingdoms. 

Whether  "  fresh  drawen  frae  the  Forth"  or  newly 
caught  in  Yarmouth  waters,  "  caller  herring," 
those  "lives  o'  men,"  as  the  ballad  called  them 
with  fine  pathos,  are  "bonny  fish  and  dainty 
faring."  Like  potatoes,  they  must  be  taken  from 
the  fire  as  soon  as  they  are  "  done."  Dished  at 
the  happy  moment,  and  served  in  season  with  plain 
melted  butter,  they  are  always  acceptable  to  the 
epicure,  who  can  appreciate  what  is  good  although 
it  is  cheap.  Salted  herrings,  when  cured  delicately, 
are  no  mean  food.  One  of  the  seasonable  dishes  for 
Easter  at  the  old  English  table  was  "  a  red  herring 
riding  away  on  horseback,  i.e.,  a  herring  ordered 
by  the  cook,  something  after  the  likeness  of  a  man 
on  horseback,  in  a  corn-sallad."  Best  at  breakfast, 
the  bloater  is  not  out  of  place  at  other  meals. 
Seventy  years  since  it  was  commonly  served  with 


HONOUR  TO   HERRINGS.  19 

the  cheese  in  the  after-course  of  grand  dinners,  as 
a  dainty  that  cleared  the  palate  and  revived  it  for 
the  enjoyment  of  port  wine.  Ay,  more,  the  three- 
bottle  men  of  the  Eegency  would  sometimes  pause 
at  the  "  finish"  of  the  second  bottle,  and  prepare 
for  the  third  by  eating  a  large-roed  bloater.  And 
in  doing  so,  our  grandfathers  were  only  following 
the  example  of  the  Elizabethan  topers,  who 
honoured  the  red-herring  as  a  whet  for  drinking. 
It  has  been  already  observed  that  the  Elizabethans 
also  used  salt  bacon  for  the  same  purpose,  a  prac- 
tice usual  in  France  during  the  sixteenth  century. 
"  Give,"  says  Rabelais  in  "  Gargantua,"  "  a  syno- 
nymon  for  a  gammon  of  bacen.  It  is  the  compul- 
sory of  drinkers ;  it  is  a  pully.  By  a  puUy-rope 
wine  is  let  down  into  the  cellar,  and  by  a  gammon 
into  the  stomach."  In  their  note  on  this  passage 
Urquhart  and  Motteux  remark,  "  Thus  we  say.  a 
red-herring  is  a  shoeing-horn  to  a  pot  of  ale." 

Honourable  for  its  gastronomic  services,  the 
bloater  is  even  more  respectable  as  one  of  the  sources 
of  our  national  prosperity.  Cheap  food  for  the 
million,  as  well  as  choice  fare  for  the  children  of 
luxury,  herrings  have  for  centuries  enlarged  our 
wealth  and  helped  to  sustain  our  commercial  credit. 
Affording  employment  to  thousands  of  simple  fisher- 
men, our  herring  fisheries  preserve  several  of  our 

maritime  towns  fi:om  decay,  whilst  maintaining  the 

0  2 


20  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THB  TABLE. 


best  nurseries  of  our  navy  and  "  mercantile  marine." 
*'  I  am  a  good  Protestant  and  abhor  the  Pope ;  but 
when  there  shall  be  no  Catholics,  what  shall  we  do 
with  our  herrings?"  exclaimed  a  member  of  the 
House  of  Commons  with  natural  alarm  and  fervour, 
on  being  assured  that  Pius  the  Sixth's  expulsion 
from  Rome  would  be  soon  followed  by  the  extinction 
of  the  Catholic  Church  and  faith.  The  House  fell 
into  long  and  riotous  laughter,  in  which  the  orator 
refused  to  join.  A  Norfolk  squire,  who  owned 
houses  in  Yarmouth  and  half-a-dozen  villages  on 
the  eastern  coast,  he  trembled  for  the '^  interest" 
that,  flourishing  on  the  errors  of  the  Papacy,  enabled 
him  to  keep  fox-hounds  in  his  native  county.  The 
"  upper  ten"  of  Yaimouth  have  been  facetiously 
termed  "  the  bloater  aristocracy."  May  they  long 
continue  to  justify  the  pungent  description. 

To  pass  from  herrings  to  whitebait,  the  fish  which 
Alexandre  Dumas  once  ate  at  ^*  Grennisch."  Na- 
turalists have  at  length  decided  that  instead  of 
being  a  distinct  species,  whitebait  are  the  young 
fish  of  half-a-score  difi^erent  kinds  of  fish.  But  no 
one  can  say  when  the  taste  for  *^  bait"  first  began 
to  show  itself  in  the  gourmands  of  our  capital.  The 
Ministerial  Whitebait  dinner,  an  institution  destroyed 
by  Mr.  Gladstone  and  restored  by  Mr.  Disraeli,  had 
its  origin  in  the  snug  fish-dinners  which  Sir  Robert 
Preston  used  to  give  to  Pitt  and  Old  George  Rose, 


WHITEBAIT.  21 

first  at  his  Dagenham  Eeach  Cottage,  and  then  at 
a  Greenwich  tavern.  But  there  is  no  evidence  that 
whitebait  was  ever  served  at  the  earlier — ^ay,  or  the 
later — fish-feeds  of  these  three  Elders  of  the  Trinity 
House.  The  "  Austerlitz  look"  may  have  covered 
the  great  statesman's  countenance  ere  the  first  bait 
was  cased  with  batter.  One  is  reluctant  to  think 
that  the  Premier  who  instituted  the  ministerial 
banquet  never  tasted  the  dainty  dish  which  for  several 
decades  has  been  the  chief  delicacy  of  the  repast. 
But  in  the  absence  of  any  menu  or  note  to  settle 
the  question,  it  must  remain  doubtful  whether 
whitebait  was  known  to  the  minister  who  originated 
the  cabinet  fish-dinners.  It  is  certain  that  white- 
bait was  not  largely  eaten  by  our  epicures  in  Pitt's 
time.  Kitchiner's  silence  respecting  the  fish  is  con- 
clusive on  this  point.  The  author  of  "  The  Cook's 
Oracle,"  who  died  in  1827,  would  not  have  failed  to 
notice  the  bait,  had  it  been  in  great  demand  when 
he  published  his  book,  or  at  any  date  of  his  period. 
Always  ready  to  decry  English  cooks  and  cookery, 
Alexandre  Dumas  insists  that,  instead  of  being  a 
peculiarly  British  delicacy,  our  whitebait  is  identical 
with  the  Italian  yanchette^  the  pmitin  of  Nice,  and 
the  poisson  blanc  of  Bordeaux.  If  he  is  right  in  this 
matter,  the  people  of  Nice  and  Bordeaux  should  be 
thankful  for  their  good  fortune.  But  whitebait  is 
one  of  the  few  culinary  facts  not  understood  in 


22  A   BOOK   ABOUT   THE   TABLE. 

France.  It  is  also  a  fact  on  which  no  Frenchman 
is  competent  to  form  an  opinion.  When  he  talks 
about  "  bait,"  M.  Taine  is  as  irrational  as  Alexandre 
Dumas. 

Wherever  caught,  whitebait  are  worthless  unless 
skilfully  cooked.  No  other  kind  of  fish  needs  so 
much  care,  knowledge,  and  dexterity  in  the  pre- 
parer. The  modern  Amphitryon,  who  has  no 
artiste  specially  trained  to  cook  "  bait,"  should  never 
put  them  on  his  table.  "  Sent  in"  from  the  kitchen  of 
even  an  able  pastry-cook,  whitebait  are  always  defec- 
tive in  crispness  or  internal  juice,  a  short  journey 
being  enough  to  injure  them  when  cooked.  Pre- 
pared by  a  cook  without  the  requisite  special 
experience,  they  are  always  disappointing,  if  not 
absolutely  abominable.  Messed  up  by  an  inept 
hand  in  the  general  frying-pan,  they  sometimes 
result  in  a  stufiT  that  looks  like  a  mixture  of  burnt 
peas  and  soot.  "  My  dear  Sir,  you  are  passing  the 
whitebait,"  a  host  once  observed  to  a  candid  friend. 
"  Indeed,"  was  the  rejoinder,  "  I  never  before  heard 
you  call  black  white."  The  free  speaker  was  never 
again  asked  to  take  "  bait"  of  any  kind  at  the  table 
for  which  these  dusky  whitebait  were  provided. 


23 


CHAPTER  II. 

JOINTS    AND    STEAKS. 

"  A  sirloyne  of  beef  was  set  before  him,  (so  knighted  saith  tradi- 
tion, by  this  King  Henry),  on  which  the  king  laid  lustily." — Fuller's 
"  Chuech  Histoky." 

"  Our  Second  Charles  of  fame  facete 
On  loin  of  beef  did  dine ; 
He  held  his  sword,  pleas'd,  o'er  the  meat, 
Arise  thoa  fam'd  Sir  Loin." 

The  "  New  Sib  John  Barletcorn." 

"  If  it  were  done,  when  'tis  done,  then  'twere  well 
It  were  done  quickly." 

Macbeth. 

"  Le  veritable  bifteck,  comme  il  se  fait  en  Angleterre." — "  L'Abt 

DU  CUISINIER." 

"  Nous  faisons  notre  bifteck  avec  un  morceau  de  filet  d'aloyau* 
tandis  que  nos  voisins  prennent,  pour  leurs  biftecks,  ce  que  nous 
app>elons  la  sour-noiz  du  bceuf,  c'est-a-dire  le  rump-steak." — "  Dic- 

TIONNAIKE  DB  CuiSlNE." 

T  ONG  after  they  had  emerged  from  what  Mr. 
"  Richard  Swiveller  would  call  their  "  native 
pot,"  joints  were  served  at  the  English  table  with 
sauces  that  would  now  be  thought  inappropriate  to 
their  flavours.  In  the  seventeenth  century  our  ances- 
tors dressed  boiled  chickens  with  verjuice  (of  crabs 
or  sour  grapes),  and  took  mustard  with  mutton. 
Seasoning    roast  beef    with    pepper,   ginger,    and 


24  A   BOOK  ABOUT  THE   TABLE. 

verjuice,  as  well  as  mustard,  they  disguised  lamb 
with  mustard  and  sugar,  in  default  of  mint  sauce 
— a  modern  invention. 

The  loin  of  beef  was  highly  esteemed  by  the 
Elizabethan  epicures,  and  there  are  apocryphal 
stories  of  loins  that  figured  with  stately  massiveness 
at  banquets  given  in  the  days  of  the  earlier  Tudors. 

In  his  "  Church  History,"  Fuller  tells  how  Henry 
the  Eighth,  disguised  as  a  gentleman  of  the  Royal 
Guard,  seated  himself  at  the  Abbot  of  Beading's 
dinner-table,  and  ate  so  largely  of  a  noble  loin  that 
the  •  abbot  declared  he  would  give  willingly  a  hun- 
dred pounds  to  have  his  guest's  appetite  and  egre- 
gious power  of  eating.  A  few  weeks  later  the 
Abbot  was  seized,  brought  to  London,  and  thrown 
into  the  Tower,  where  he  was  kept  for  several  days 
on  bread  and  water.  When  this  diet  had  made  him 
vehemently  desirous  of  better  fare,  a  roast  sirloin 
was  set  before  the  prisoner,  who  forthwith  fed  off  it 
with  equal  gust  and  greediness.  Surprised  by  the 
timely  arrival  of  the  meat,  the  Abbot  was  less 
agreeably  astonished,  at  the  close  of  his  long  meal, 
by  the  appearance  of  the  same  portly  beef-eater  who 
had  visited  Reading  Abbey.  "  Sir  Abbot,  I  have 
cured  you  of  your  want  of  appetite,  and  claim  my 
fee,"  cried  the  stalwart  gentleman.  On  learning 
that  his  physician  was  also  his  sovereign,  the  Abbot 
lost  no  time  in  promising  to  pay  the  money,  and 


SIB  LOIN  S  KNIGflTHOOCD,  25 

craving  pardon  for  the  freedom  of  his  speech  about 
His  Highnesses  gluttony. 

According  to  a  tradition  noticed  in  Fuller*s 
version  of  this  story,  the  loin  of  beef  acquired  its 
knightly  style  from  Henry  the  Eighth,  who,  in 
delight  at  a  magnificent  piece  of  the  overloin,  laid 
his  sword  instead  of  a  carving-knife  upon  its  steam- 
ing surface.  Later  sovereigns  have  been  credited 
with  the  same  act.  In  the  middle  of  the  seven- 
teenth century  James  the  First  was  often  mentioned 
as  the  humorous  king  who  dubbed  the  piece  of 
meat ;  and  in  ignorance,  of  Henry's  title  to  figure  in 
history  as  the  giver  of  the  honour,  Richardson  says 
authoritatively  in  his  dictionary,  "  Surloin  or  sirloin, 
the  loin  of  beef  so  entitled  by  King  James  the 
First."  The  second  Charles,  however,  is  the 
sovereign  to  whose  social  fame  this  anecdote  has 
clung  most  tenaciously.  Again  and  again,  by 
gossip-mongers  and  grave  historians,  has  it  been 
•  told  how  the  Merry  Monarch  convulsed  a  knot  of 
courtiers  with  merriment  by  knighting  a  loin  of 
beef;  and  only  a  few  years  since  a  painter  of  con- 
siderable ability  exhibited  on  one  of  the  Royal 
Academy's  walls  a  picture  of  Charles  the  Second 
in  the  act  of  conferring  the  distinction  on  the  for- 
tunate joint. 

The  explanation  of  the  word  having  been  indi- 
cated, it  is  needless  to  observe  that  the  "  sir"  of  the 


26  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

sirloin  is  Dotbing  but  tbe  prefix  accopded  to  balf  a 
hundred  familiar  words  of  our  language.  Surprise, 
surmount,  surplus,  surplice,  surname,  survival,  are 
instances  of  this  common  use  of  a  prefix  which  was 
often  spelt  with  i  instead  of  u  in  the  days  of  loose 
orthography.  In  the  old  cookery  books  "  sirloin" 
is  spelt  in  the  one  as  often  as  in  the  other  way. 
The  same  was  the  case  in  the  general  literature  of 
the  last  century;  and  although  it  is  now-a-days 
seldom  written  **surloin,"  the  word  so  spelt  appears 
in  our  best  dictionaries.  Webster  and  Richardson 
give  both  spellings.  Johnson,  strangely,  makes  no 
mention  of  sirloin  or  surloin ;  but,  in  connection 
with  the  foregoing  remarks  on  the  twofold  ortho- 
graphy of  the  prefix,  readers  should  observe  that  he 
occasionally  spells  it  with  "  u  "  in  words  where  that 
spelling  is  at  present  obsolete,  if  not  inadmissible. 
For  instance,  he  allows  us  to  write  either  "  sur- 
name" or  "  sirname."  The  latter  mode  of  spelling 
the  additional  name  may  of  course  be  defended  on 
the  ground  that  a  patronymic  is  a  sire-n^me. 

Though  it  was  no  feature  of  the  earlier  Old 
English  cuisine,  and  is  therefore  much  less  ancient 
than  the  idolater  of  roast  beef  would  like  us  to 
think  it,  the  sirloin  is  a  joint  of  respectable  antiquity. 
Seen  occasionally  on  the  Tudor  tables,  it  appeared 
at  least  once  a  fortnight  on  the  board  of  every 
wealthy  Londoner   of   Charles   the  Second's  time. 


A   CHRISTMAS   DrNNEB,  27 

The  "  piece  o£  roast  beef"  wLich  Misson  mentions 
amongst  the  ten  or  twelve  sorts  of  common  meat 
which  infallibly  take  their  turns  at  the  table  of  the 
middling  sort  of  people,  was  usually  taken  from  the 
loin  of  the  ox.  The  sirloin  was  also  a  joint  for 
highly  fashionable  banquets  at  any  time  subsequent 
to  the  first  Charles's  accession.  It  figures  in 
Robert  May's  menu  for  Christmas  day,  which  runs 
thus : — 

"  Oysters  at  the  entry. 

'^  First  Course. — 1.  Collar  of  brawn.     2.  Stewed 
broth  of  mutton  and  marrow-bones.     3.  A  grand 
sallet.     4.  A  pottage  of  caponets.     5.  A  breast  of 
veal  in  stoffado.      6.  Boiled  partridges.      7.  Chine 
of  beef,   or  surloin  roast.     8.  Minced  pies.     9.  A 
jegote  of  mutton  with  anchovy  sauce.     10.  A  made 
dish  of  sweetbreads.      11.  A  roast  swan.      12.  A 
pasty  of  venison.     13.  A  kid  with  a  pudding  in  his 
belly.     14.  A  steak-pie.     15.  A  haunch  of  venison 
roasted.     16.  A  turkey  roast  and  stuck  with  cloves. 
17.  A  made  dish  of  chickens  in  pufi*  paste.  18.  Two 
bran  geese  roasted.     19.  Two   large  capons,   one 
larded.     20.  A  custard. 
"  Oranges  and  lemons. 

"  Second  Course. — 1.  A  young  lamb  or  kid.  2.  Two 
couple  of  rabbits,  two  larded.  3.  Soust  pig  with 
tongues.  4.  Three  ducks,  one  larded.  5.  Three  phea- 
sants, one  larded.  6.  A  swan  pye.   7.  Three  brace  pf 


28  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE   TABLE. 

partridges,  three  larded.  8.  Made  dish  in  puflF 
paste.  9.  Bolonia  sausages  and  anchovies,  and 
mushrooms,  and  caviare,  and  pickled  oysters  in  a 
dish.  10.  Six  teels,  three  larded.  11.  A  gammon 
of  Westphalia  bacon.  12.  Ten  plovers,  five  larded. 
13.  Quince  pie,  or  warden  pie.  14.  Six  woodcocks, 
three  larded.  15.  A  standing  tart  in  puff  paste, 
preserved  fruits,  and  pippins.  16.  A  dish  of  larks. 
17.  Six  dried  neats'  tongues.  18.  Sturgeon.  19. 
Powdered  geese.     20.  Jellies." 

Plum-pudding  is  here  conspicuous  by  its  absence, 
a  fact  which  at  least  shows  that  the  rich  compound 
was  no  such  prime  article  of  Christmas  fare  in  the 
middle  of  the  seventeenth  century  as  it  became  in 
Georgian  England,  and  still  is.     The  pudding  that 
invariably  preceded,   or  followed,   roast  beef  at  a 
•*  family  dinner"  in  William  the  Third's  time  was  a 
plum-pudding.     Misson  describes  it  as  consisting  of 
"  flower,  milk,  eggs,  butter,  sugar,  suet,  marrow, 
raisins,  &c.,"  and  says  it  was  either  baked  in  an 
oven,  or  boiled  with  the  meat.     The  Londoners  of 
Misson's  day  were   enthusiastic  admirers   of  this 
preparation.     "It  is   a  manna,"  says  the  French 
refugee,  "  that  hits  the  palates  of  all  sorts  of  peoples,* 
a  manna  better  than  that  of  the  wilderness,  because 
the  people  never  weary  of  it.     Ah,  what  an  excellent 
thing  is  an  English  pudding  1     To  come  in  pudding- 
time  is  as  much  as  to  say  to  come  in  the  most  lucky 


PLUM-PUDDING.  29 

moment  in  the  world."  In  their  enthusiasm  for  the 
familiar  food,  Misson's  friends  used  to  exclaim 
fervently,  "  Blessed  be  he  that  invented  pudding  1** 
Perhaps  Misson  was  the  authority  on  whom  Alex- 
andre Dumas  relied  when  he  wrote  seriously  in  the 
**  Dictionnaire  de  Cuisine."  "  Plum-pudding — Mets 
farineux  sans  lequel  il  n'y  a  pas  de  bon  repas  en 
Angleterre."  But  the  pudding  celebrated  by  Misson 
was  no  peculiar  feature  of  Christmas  cheer.  Always 
popular,  it  was  not  in  especial  demand  at  that 
season.  Elsewhere  in  this  work  it  has  been  re- 
marked that  the  germs  of  the  modern  plum-pudding 
may  be  found  in  the  mediaaval  cuisine,  and  tliat 
pluni-porridge  maintained  its  old  place  on  the 
festal  board  almost  to  the  close  of  the  last 
century. 

Accounted  the  chief  of  joints  by  our  Carolinian 
gourmands,  the  sirloin  was  glorified  by  our  Augus- 
tan poets.  King  proclaimed  its  dignity,  and  Fenton 
extolled  it  as  the  fittest  fare  for  *•  bold  Britons." 
Harping  on  the  old  fiction  of  its  knightly  worth,  the 
author  of  the  "  Art  of  Cookery"  says  : — 

"  When  pleasures  to  the  eye  and  palate  meet, 
The  oook  has  rendered  his  great  work  complete ; 
His  glory  far,  like  Sir-Loin's  knighthood  flies» 
Immortal  made  as  Kit-Gat  by  his  pies." 

Unaware  that  the  victors  of  Cressy  were  habitual 
consumers  of  pottage  and  gallimawfries,   Fenton 


30  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THB  TABLE. 

says  in    his    prologue    to    Southerners    "  Spartan 
Dame" :— 

"  Bat  the  bold  Briton  ne'er  in  earnest  dines. 
Without  substantial  baaDches  and  snrloins, 
In  wit,  as  well  as  war,  they  give  us  vigoar ; 
CresBj  was  lost  by  kickshaws  and  Bonp-meagre." 

Greater  poets  than  Fenton  and  King  enlarged  the 
literature  of  gastronomy  in  the  eighteenth  century. 
Swift  sang  the  leg  of  mutton,  Gay  the  knuckle  of 
veal,  and  Goldsmith  the  haunch  of  venison.  Ex- 
hibiting at  the  same  time  his  delight  in  good 
cheer  and  fine  perception  of  character,  Goldsmith 
also  opened  the  '^  Retaliation"  with  the  familiar 
lines : — 

**  Of  old,  when  Scarron  his  companions  invited. 
Each  guest  brought  his  dish,  and  the  feast  was  united. 
If  our  landlord  supplies  us  with  beef  and  with  fish, 
Let  each  guest  bring  himself,  and  he  brings  the  best  dish ; 
Our  Dean  shall  be  venison,  just  fresh  from  the  plains ; 
Our  Burke  shall  be  tongue,  with  a  garnish  of  brains ; 
Our  Will  shall  be  wild  fowl,  of  excellent  flavour. 
And  Dick  with  his  pepper  shall  heighten  the  savour ; 
Our  Cumberland's  sweet-bread  its  place  shall  obtain. 
And  Douglas  is  pudding  substantial  and  plain ; 
Our  Garrick's  a  salad,  for  in  him  we  see 
Oil,  vinegar,  sugar,  and  saltness  agree : 
To  make  out  the  dinner,  full  certain  I  am 
That  Bidge  is  anchovy,  and  Eeynolds  is  lamb ; 
That  Hickey's  a  capon,  and  by  the  same  rule. 
Magnanimous  Goldsmith  a  gooseberry  fool." 

With  the  aid  of  a  muse,  alike  clever  at  turning 


BOILED  VEAL.  31 

couplet  aDd  spit,  Gay  taught  cooks  how  to  stew  a 
knuckle  of  veal  in  this  fashion  : — 

"  Take  a  knuckle  of  veal. 
You  may  buy  it  or  steal ; 
In  a  few  pieces  cut  it, 
In  a  stewing  pan  put  it ; 
Salt,  pepper,  and  mace, 

Must  season  this  knuckle ; 
Then  what's  joined  to  a  place   (i,e,  celery,  wdgo  salary,) 

With  other  herbs  muckle ; 
That  which  kill'd  King  Will  (i,e.  sorrel), 
And  what  never  stands  still  (i.e,  thyme). 
Some  sprigs  from  that  bed 
Where  children  are  bred,   (i.e.  parsley). 
Which  much  will  mend,  if 
Both  spinach  and  endive, 
And  lettice  and  beet 
With  marygold  meet. 
Put  no  water  at  all. 
For  it  maketh  things  small, 
Which  lest  it  should  happen, 
A  close  cover  clap  on ; 
Put  this  pot  of  wood  metal  (t.e.  copper), 
In  a  boiling  hot  kettle. 
And  there  let  it  be 

(Mark  the  doctrine  I  teach) 
About,  let  me  see. 

Thrice  as  long  as  you  preach. 
So  skimming  the  fat  off. 
Say  grace  with  your  hat  off. 
Oh  !  then  with  what  rapture 
Will  it  mi  Dean  and  Chapter !" 

The  Dean,   for  whose  amusement   and   serious 


32  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLK. 

edification  (Jay  threw  off  this  trifle,  commended  roast 
mutton  in  the  following  strain : —  ,  * 

"  Grentlj  stir  and  blow  the  fire^ 
Lay  the  mutton  down  to  roast. 

Dress  it  qaickly,  I  desire, 
In  the  dripping  put  a  toast, 

That  I  hanger  may  remove, — 

Mutton  is  the  meat  I  love. 

**  On  the  dresser  see  it  lie. 
Oh !  the  charming  white  and  red. 

Finer  never  met  the  eye, 
On  the  sweetest  grass  it  fed ; 

Let  the  jack  go  swiftly  round. 

Let  me  have  it  nicely  brown'd. 

**  On  the  table  spread  the  cloth. 
Let  the  knives  be  sharp  and  clean, 

Pickles  get  and  salad  both. 
Let  them  each  be  fresh  and  green. 

With  small  beer,  good  ale,  and  wine, 

O  ye  gods !  how  I  shall  dine  I" 

The  sirloin  had  attained  universal  popularity  long 
before  our  ancestors  turned  their  attention  to  steaks. 
The  fork  had  for  many  years  promoted  the  taste  for 
natural  and  simple  flavours^  when  epicures  dis- 
covered that  the  distinctive  sapidity  of  beef  should 
be  sought  in  thick,  lightly  broiled  slices  taken  from 
the  juiciest  and  tenderest  parts  of  the  carcase.  The 
precise  date  of  this  discovery  is  unknown ;  but  it 
may  be  assigned  to  the  close  of  the  seventeenth 
century.    Anyhow,  steaks  were  so  highly  esteemed. 


BEEF-STEAK  OLTJBS.  33 

and  their  eaters  so  numerous  in  the  days  of  Queen 
Anne,  that  gastronomic  connoisseurs  formed  them- 
selves into  clubs  that,  whilst  furthering  the  inferior 
ends  of  good  fellowship,  had  for  their  chief  object 
the  study  of  beef  under  the  most  favourable  circum- 
stances.    Addison  refers  to  one  of  these  associations 
in  a  "  Spectator.'*     Samuel  Johnson,  who  belonged 
to  a  beef-club  in  Ivy  Lane,  lived  in  times  when  his 
countrymen   were    scarcely   more    proud   of  their 
liberties  than  of  theit  steaks.     Of  late  years  we  have 
grown  indifferent  to  the  food  which  our  great  grand- 
fathers extolled  so  passionately.     One  now-a-days 
seldom  encounters  the  steak  in  private  houses,  or 
hears  its  praises  in  the  few  taverns  which  still  offer  it 
to  their  customers.     But  if  we  have  outgrown  our  old 
love  of  steaks  at  home,  we  are  still  chiefly  known  to 
continental  gourmands  as  the  inventors  and  worship- 
pers of  the  broiled  cut.    The  typical  Englishman,  who 
may  still  be  found  on  the  stages  of  Parisian  theatres 
with  a  boole-dogue  at  his  heels,  may  forget  to  order 
"  ros-bif,"  but  he  always  takes  occasion  to  declare 
his  loyalty  to  "  bif-teck." 

0£  all  the  beef  clubs  that  sprung  into  existence 
in  the  United  Kingdom  during  the  last  century, 
none  is  more  famous  than  the  "  The  Sublime  Society 
of  Beef  Steaks"  which,  alike  fortunate  at  its  birth  and 
death,  was  founded  by  a  genial  harlequin,  and  was 
committed  to  the  grave  by  an  affectionate  historian. 

VOL.  II.  D 


34  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

Eatablished  in  1735,  under  the  roof  of  Covent 
Garden  Theatre  by  Henry  Rich,  whose  room  had 
long  been  the  favourite  resort  of  wits  and  their 
patrons,  the  Sublime  Society  was  famous  in  its  in- 
fancy. Ay,  it  was  born  with  historic  honours  on 
its  head,  for  memories  of  Rich's  hospitality,  and  of 
"  good  things"  uttered  at  the  harlequin's  board 
before  the  actual  enrolment  of  the  brotherhood, 
were  a  bright  portion  of  its  earlier  celebrity.  Con- 
sisting of  only  twenty-four  mefnbers,  each  of  whom 
might  bring  a  guest  on  "  open  days,"  it  had  a 
nicely  adjusted  constitution,  and  a  staff  of  ofiicers 
invested  with  adequate  authority.  The  "  President 
of  the  Day"  could  enforce  his  orders  with  the  con- 
venient terrors  of  unwritten  and  elastic  law.  There 
was  "  the  Bishop"  to  administer  the  oath  to  newly 
elected  brothers,  and  "  the  Recorder"  to  preside  at 
f  he  frequent  trials,  that  always  closed  with  a  verdict 
of  guilty  against  beef-eaters  accused  of  criminal  pro- 
pensities. "  The  Boots,"  who  was  every  man's  butt 
and  butler,  was  liable  to  lose  anything  but  his  place 
if  he  ventured  to  dally  with  his  beloved  viand,  when 
bidden  to  fetch  another  bottle  from  the  cellar.  The 
society  had  of  course  a  badge,  a  motto,  and  a 
uniform.  The  badge  was  a  gridiron,  the  motto 
*' Beef  and  Liberty,"  the  uniform  blue  coat  and 
buff  waistcoat,  adorned  with  brass  buttons,  bearing 
the   club's   gridiron    and  legend.      The  club    had 


THE    SUBLIME    SOCIETY.  35 

also  a  finpfer-ring  in  wbicb  was  set  a  gridiron 
encircled  by  tbe  club  motto.  In  tbe  earlier  days 
of  tbe  Sublime  Society,  no  **  Beef  Steak"  ever  ap- 
peared in  bis  place  at  dinner  witbout  baving  tbe 
club  ring  on  one  of  bis  fingers. 

One  bas  only  to  survey  tbe  roll  of  members  to 
imagine  tbe  wit  and  gaiety  of  tbe  society's  sublimest 
meetings.  Cburcbill,  Dennis  Delane,  Hogartb,  Ga- 
briel Hunt,  Dean  Price,  Judge  Welsb,  Hippisley, 
Dr.  Antbony  Askew,  and  Tbeopbilus  Gibber  were 
some  of  the  brothers  wbo  strolled  on  Saturdays  to 
Govent  Garden,  in  tbe  days  wben  "Tbe  Steaks" 
dined  at  two  o'clock  in  tbe  old  quarters  of  tbe 
harlequin  and  bis  friend,  tbe  scene-painter,  Lam- 
bert. Paul  Wbiiebead  and  Henry  Gifford,  Dr. 
Barrowby  and  Dr.  Askew,  were  amongst  tbe  men 
who  may  be  called  the  second  generation  of  tbe 
Sublime  Steaks.  At  a  later  date  tbe  Prince  of 
Wales  and  bis  brothers  of  York  and  Sussex  proved 
themselves  sincere  admirers  of  tbe  steaming  steak, 
and  ate  it  in  company  with  earls  and  actors,  wits 
and  journalists.  The  society  was  jubilant  and 
slightly  insolent  on  drawing  within  its  circle  tbe 
heir  to  the  throne;  but  it  bad  more  reason  to 
exult  over  tbe  election  of  another  member,  who 
joined  the  club  three  months  earlier.  Gharles 
Morris,  the  anacreontic  songster,  wbo  was  per- 
petually **  filling  bis  glass  again"  fi:om  youtb  to  old 

D  2 


36  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

age,  did  more  than  all  the  Princes  and  Peers  for  the 
renown  of  the  Steaks.     "  He  was,"  as  Mr.  Arnold 
gratefully   observes,    "  the    life    and   soul   of   the 
society."     Most  of  his  best  songs  were  sung  for 
the  first  time  at  the   sublime  board,  and  in  days 
when  no  man  about  town  liked  to  confess  that  he 
had  never  heard  Captain  Morris  glorify  drunkenness 
with  music  and  poetry,  the  Bard  of  the  Beef  Steak 
Club  was  one  of  its  chief  attractions  to  gentlemen 
who  had  no  predilection  for  under-done  meat.  Any- 
how, the  Prince  of  Wales  and  Captain  Morris  be- 
tween  them   raised   the   society   to   the   sublimest 
height  of  fashion.     Henry  Brougham   was  a  Beef 
Steak,  whilst  he  led  the  Bar  and  fought  his  way  to 
honour  in  the  Commons ;    and  he    still  wore  the 
blue  coat  and  gridiron  buttons  when  he  was  called 
to   keep   the  King's  conscience.      Lord   Grantley, 
Sir  Matthew  Wood,  the  Earl  of  Sufi'olk,  the  Duke 
of  Leinster,  Cam  Hobhouse  (Lord  Broughton^,  Sir 
Francis    Burdett,   and    Dr.    Somerville  were   con- 
temporary Beef  Steaks,   who  used  to  applaud  the 
brilliant  lawyer's  special  song,  •*  La  Pipe  de  Tabac." 
The  Beef  Steaks  at  table  were  so  free  and  frank 
in  their  jocular  speech,  that  sensitive  members  could 
not   always   keep    their    good   humour   under   the 
hilarious  assaults  on  their  self-love.     It  was  a  first 
rule  of  the  society  that  any  member  might  say  what 
he  pleased  to  another,  and  that  no  one  was  to  take 


A   PRINCE    IN   TROUBLE.  37 

offence  at  the  utterance.  But  the  rule  was  more 
easily  made  than  observed.  More  than  a  few 
brothers  retired  before  Brother  Stephenson's  un- 
scrupulous raillery,  and  withdrew  for  ever  from  a 
fraternity  whose  humour  involved  incessant  inflic- 
tions of  pain.  Even  the  amiable  Duke  of  Sussex 
nearly  broke  with  the  club  in  his  pardonable  annoy- 
ance at  being  found  guilty  (by  a  Beef  Steak  jury) 
of  a  disgraceful  offence.  His  Royal  Highness  was 
walking  to  **  the  Steaks"  with  Brother  Hallet,  when 
the  latter  was  relieved  of  his  watch-chain  and 
seals  by  a  street-thief.  After  dinner  the  Steaks 
accused  the  Prince  of  being  the  robber,  tried  him 
with  due  attention  to  forms,  ascertained  his  guilt, 
and  sentenced  him  to  wear  the  white  sheet  and  re- 
ceive a  reprimand  from  the  Recorder.  The  criminal, 
whose  wine  and  beef  had  disagreed  with  him,  went 
through  the  punishment  with  a  bad  grace,  and 
turned  sulky.  The  renewed  laughter  of  Steaks  only 
aggravated  his  displeasure,  and,  calling  for  his  carriage 
at  an  early  hour,  he  drove  off  in  high  dudgeon.  On 
the  following  morning  Mr.  Arnold  (the  historian's 
father)  waited  on  His  Royal  Highness  in  order 
to  assuage  the  royal  anger,  and  assure  him  that, 
in  spite  of  their  careful  consideration  of  the  damna- 
tory evidence,  the  Steaks  held  him  incapable  of 
stealing  a  friend's  portable  property.  But  before 
the  ambassador  could  say  a  word  to  the  purpose, 


88  A   BOOK   ABOUT  THE   TABLE. 

the  good-natured  Duke  exclaimed,  "  I  know  wbat 
you  are  come  about.  I  made  a  fool  of  myself  last 
night.  You  were  quite  right,  and  I  quite  wrong ; 
so  I  shall  come  next  Saturday  and  do  penance  again 
for  my  bad  temper."  The  last  of  the  royal  brothers 
to  withdraw  from  the  Steaks,  the  Duke  of  Sussex, 
was  a  member  of  the  Sublime  Society  so  late 
as  1839. 

Between  this  duke's  election  and  retirement,  the 
club  changed  its  quarters  several  times.  On  the 
destruction  (by  fire)  of  its  first  home,  it  fed  for  a 
few  months  at  the  Bedford  Coffee  House,  and  then 
moved  to  the  old  Lyceum  Theatre  in  1809,  where 
it  remained  till  1830,  when  it  was  again  **  burnt 
out."  Its  next  home  was  the  Lyceum  Tavern, 
Strand,  whence  it  re-migrated  to  its  old  lodging  in 
the  Bedford  Coffee  House,  where  it  tarried  till 
1838,  when  its  last  and  stateliest  residence  was 
built  under  the  roof  of  the  New  Lyceum.  Twenty- 
nine  years  of  existence  still  remained  for  the  Sub- 
lime Society ;  but  they  were  years  of  languor  and 
decay.  The  original  gridiron,  dug  out  from  the 
ruins  of  old  Covent  Garden,  was  fixed  in  the  ceiling 
of  the  new  dining-room,  but  no  one  could  restore 
the  old  spirit  of  the  Society,  that  never  re- 
covered from  its  loss  of  Henry  Brougham,  who 
withdrew  from  the  club  in  1835.  Celebrity  after 
celebrity    followed     Brougham's    significant     ex- 


DYING   OF   DIGNITY.  39 

ample,  and  though  the  vacancies  were  filled  up 
by  men  of  parts  and  distinction,  no  new  member 
brought  the  spirits  that  could  re-animjjite  the 
failing  body. 

Steps  were  taken  for  its  revival;  but  whilst 
some  of  these  measures  were  injudicious,  others 
were  only  adopted  when  the  patient's  case  was 
beyond  remedy.  It  was  well  to  change  the  day  of 
meeting,  but  inauspicious  Friday  was  an  unfortunate 
choice  of  the  day  for  future  meetings*  To  accom- 
modate itself  to  new  fashions,  the  club  postponed 
its  dinner  hour  from  six  to  seven,  and  from  seven 
to  eight  o'clock.  In  old  times  the  dinner  hour 
(originally  two  o'clock)  had  been  deferred  succes- 
sively to  four,  five,  and  six.  The  reluctant  conces- 
sion of  sherry  to  members,  whose  gout  forbade 
them  to  drink  port,  was  not  enough  to  conciliate 
failing  valetudinarians  who  were  under  orders  to 
take  nothing  but  claret.    ' 

Noticing  several  of  the  causes  of  its  decadence, 
Mr.  Arnold  failed  to  detect  the  source  of  the  worst 
troubles  under  which  the  Society  groaned  in  its 
later  years.  The  fact  is,  the  club  was  slowly  dying 
of  dignity.  Dukes  and  Earls  lay  heavy  upon  it, 
great  men  who  seldom  appeared  at  the  board, 
though  they  continued  to  pay  their  annual  "  sub- 
scriptions" and  *'  whips"  under  a  notion  that  they 
were    doing  the  moribund  brotherhood   a  service 


40  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

by  **  holding  on"  to  the  exclusion  of  younger 
"  blood."  Familiarity  with  Princes  had  made  the 
senile  club  disdainful  of  clever  "  nobodies ;"  and 
preferring  great  men  who  had  once  been  brilliant 
to  brilliant  men  who  were  only  making  the  first 
steps  to  greatness,  the  Society  elected  to  its  vacan- 
cies eminent  persons  out  of  regard  for  their  names 
rather  than  their  clubbable  faculties.  Had  it,  on 
entering  the  New  Lyceum,  doubled  the  number  of 
its  members,  enlarged  its  menu,  reformed  its 
cellar,  required  half-a-dozen  annual  attendances 
from  each  brother,  and  recruited  itself  from  the 
"&o?/.<f  about  town,"  the  Sublime  Society  would 
have  flourished  to  this  day.  But  lacking  the 
courage  to  take  these  recuperative  measures,  it  grew 
weaker  and  more  infirm,  until  it  breathed  its  last 
in  Mr.  Arnold's  tender  hands,  and  left  its  chattels 
to  the  auctioneer's  hammer. 

The  honour  of  belonging  to  the  Sublime  Steaks 
was  costly.  In  the  palmiest  days  of  the  club  the 
entrance  fee  of  each  new  member  was  £26  55.,  a 
charge  reduced  to  £10  10s.  in  1849.  The  "  whips" 
for  current  expenses  were  on  the  average  equal 
to  an  annual  subscription  of  £10  from  each  brother. 
At  the  same  time  a  member  paid  five  shillings  for 
every  dinner  of  which  he  partook,  and  half-a-guinea 
for  his  friend's  entertainment.     The  price  paid  to 


"OUB   CLUB."  41 

the  butcher  for  steaks  was  on  the  average  half-a- 
crown  a  pound. 

Notwithstanding  the  growing  distaste  for  the 
broiled  slice,  Steak  Clubs  are  still  numerous  in 
London  and  the  provinces.  Of  those  which  still 
meet  in  the  Covent  Garden  and  Strand  quarter, 
none  is  more  vigorous  and  famous  than  "  Our 
Cliib,"  at  whose  board  Dickens  (as  a  visitor)  ate  his 
steak,  and  Thackeray  (as  a  member)  used  to  sing 
the  "  Mahogany  Tree"  and  "  Little  Billee."  It  is 
true  th(it  since  Douglas  Jerrold  founded  "Our 
Club,"  on  the  understanding  that  the  fare  should 
consist  of  fish,  steaks,  marrow-bones,  and  toasted 
cheese,  the  menu  has  been  enlarged  with  proper 
consideration  for  squeamish  appetites  and  weak 
stomachs.  But  though  the  weekly  banquet  at 
Clunn's  comprises  joints  and  made  dishes,  it  still 
remains  a  steak  feast  for  those  who  care  to  dine 
heartily  on  broiled  steaks,  plain  or  shallotted.  By 
the  way.  Dr.  Diamond,  an  original  member  of  "  Our 
Club,"  is  the  gastronomer  who  discovered  that  the 
distinguishing  virtues  of  marrow  on  toast  are  deli- 
cately  sustained  and  emphasized  by  a  few  drops  of 
the  best  anchovy  sauce. 

Alexandre  Dumas  was  mistaken  in  supposing  that 
the  beef-steak  was  unknown  in  Paris  before  Water- 
loo. So  early  as  1814,  Monsieur  Beauvilliers,  in 
"L'Art  du  Cuisinier,"  extolled  the  English  "rome- 


42  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE, 

steck"  in  terras  which  prove  that  Parisian  epicures 
were  already  familiar  with  the  excellences  of  the 
viand.  It  follows  that  the  novelist  was  not  his- 
torically justified  in  applauding  the  French  of  1815 
for  the  generous  superiority  to  prejudice  and  passion, 
which  distinguished  their  prompt  acceptance  of  a 
culinary  lesson  from  their  insolent  conquerors. 
Dumas,  however,  was  right  in  observing  that,  after 
trying  steaks  taken  from  the  several  choice  parts  of 
the  ox,  his  countrymen  preferred  the  "  bifteck 
d'aloyau"  to  the  *^  romesteck.*'  Admitting  that  we 
may  do  well  in  preferring  the  rump-cuts  of  our 
prime  animals,  he  insists  that  in  France,  where  oxen 
are  usually  worked  on  the  farm  before  they  are  fatted 
for  the  table,  and  seldom  pass  to  the  butcher  till 
labour  has  hardened  their  muscle,  the  epicure 
exercises  a  wise  discretion  in  taking  his  "  biftecks" 
from  the  juiciest  part  of  the  loin,  although  he  thus 
obtains  the  maximum  of  tenderness  at  a  consider- 
able sacrifice  of  flavour.  The  English  idler  in  Paris 
would  not  so  often  express  surprise  at  the  exquisite 
tenderness  of  his  "  bifteck,"  and  refer  disparagingly 
to  the  beef  of  his  native  land,  if  he  knew  the  ana- 
tomical and  gastronomic  differences  of  the  Parisian 
"  filet  d'aloyau"  and  the  London  rump-steak. 

Of  the  intimate  relations  established  by  gastro- 
nomy between  steaks  and  oysters,  there  is  no  need 
to  speak.     If  beef  enables  us  to  appreciate  liberty, 


STEAK-PUDDING.  43 

it  is  to  the  "  native"  that  we  are  indebted  for  our 
perception  of  some  of  the  finer  excellences  of  beef. 
So  long  as  the  "  rump"  survives,  the  "  dozen"  will 
ever  be  found  at  its  side.  But  ere  we  pass  from 
beef  to  less  majestic  delicacies,  let  us  render  homage 
to  beef-steak  pudding,  than  which  no  goodlier  fare 
can  be  found  for  a  strong  hungry  man  on  a  cold 
day.  Rising  from  his  pudding  at  the  "  Cheshire 
Cheese,"  such  a  feaster  is  at  a  loss  to  say  whether 
he  should  be  most  grateful  for  the  tender  steak, 
savoury  oyster,  seductive  kidney,  rich  gravy,  ardent 
pepper,  or  delicate  paste.  Steak-pie  is  one  of  those 
culinary  blunders  for  which  even  charity  has  no 
excuse.  Hot,  it  is  a  greasy  mistake  ;  cold,  it  is  an 
outrage  and  a  disaster.  The  abominable  thing  would 
be  less  afflicting  to  the  temper  and  the  digestion, 
were  it  not  for  the  appetizing  look  of  its  poisonous 
crust. 


44 


CHAPTER  III. 

PIE   AND    PIE-TART. 

"  Tartlettes, — Take  veal  goode,  and  grynde  it  smale.  Take  harde 
egron  ysode,  and  ygrond,  and  do  thereto  with  prunes  hoole,  daces 
icorved,  pynes,  and  raisons  corans,  hool  spices,  and  powder,  sugar, 
salt,  and  make  a  litell  coflfyn,  and  do  this  faro  thereinne,  and  bake  it, 
and  serve  it  forthe."— The  Forme  of  Curt, 

"  Why,  little  Jack,  be  sure  would  eat 
His  Christmas  pye  in  rhyme ; 
And  said.  Jack  Horner  in  the  corner 

Eats  good  Christmas  pye. 
And  with  his  thumb  pulls  out  the  plumb, 
And  said,  good  boy  am  I." 

History  of  Jack  Horner. 

**  Let  never  fresh  machines  your  pastry  try. 
Unless  grandees  or  magistrates  are  by. 
Then  you  may  put  a  dwarf  into  a  pye, 
Or  if  you  fright  an  alderman  and  mayor. 
Within  a  pasty  lodge  a  living  hare : 
Then  midst  their  gravest  furs  shall  mirth  arise, 
And  all  the  Guild  pursue  with  joyful  cries." 

King's  "Art  of  Cookery." 

THE  late  Duke  of  Cambridge's  favourite  dinner 
was  roast  pig  and  apple  dumpling.  The  late 
Lord  Dudley  was  never  satisfied  with  a  banquet 
which  afibrded  no  apple-pie.  "  God  bless  my  soul, 
no  apple-pie  !"  he  muttered  repeatedly,  with  mingled 
surprise  and  discontent,  as  he  looked  in  vain  for  his 
favourite   fruit-dish  at   Prince   Esterhazy's   sump- 


TAET   EEPLIES.  45 

tuously  provided  table.  Mr.  Hay  ward  records  that 
his  lordship  "  insisted  on  calling  it  apple-pie,  con- 
tending that  the  term  *  tart '  only  applied  to  open 
pastry." 

Old  friendships  have  been  broken  and  fortunes 
lost  by  contention  about  the  precise  and  distinctive 
meanings  of  **  pie"  and  **  tart."  Like  Lord  Dudley, 
Charley  Silkstone,  whilom  the  most  supercilious  of 
dandies  about  town,  stubbornly  refused  to  call 
apple-pie  a  tart. 

"  Shall  I  send  you  some  apple-tart  ?"  inquired 
Charley's  great  Aunt  Martha,  the  severe  and  frigid 
widow  of  Sir  Andrew  Curtis,  gin-distiller. 

"  Thank  you,  Lady  Curtis,  1  will  take  some  apple- 
pte,"  returned  Charley. 

"Fruit  pies  are  tarts,"  great-aunt  Curtis  urged 
authoritatively. 

"  What  you  call  apple-tart  is  always  called  apple- 
pie  in  *  society,*  "  was  the  rejoinder. 

Charley  had  his  apple-pie,  but  he  missed  great- 
aunt  Martha's  farms  in  Surrey,  which,  in  conse- 
quence of  the  dispute,  were  left  to  another  great- 
nephew,  who  had  the  prudence  to  agree  with  the 
imperious  lady  on  the  important  question. 

Pie,  the  abbreviation  of  patiSHeriey  together  with 
all  the  cognate  terms,  such  as  paste,  pastry,  pate^ 
patty,  is  a  derivative  of  the  Latin  pistum^  the  past 
participle  of  pinsere^  "  to  beat  together."     Junius, 


46  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

with  his  Greek  TuaTog,  and  Skinner,  with  his 
Latin  pastus^  are  out  of  the  discussion.  Whether 
they  be  earthy  or  farinaceous,  materials  beaten, 
kneaded,  or  otherwise  worked  into  an  adhesive  mass 
are  "  paste."  And  pastry  is  the  generic  term  for 
all  culinary  preparations  that  are  served  on  layers 
or  in  cases,  whether  opened  or  closed,  of  farinaceous 
paste.  Pie  is  nothing  but  an  abbreviation  of  this 
generic  term.  All  tarts  are  pies,  but  all  pies  are 
not  tarts. 

What  in  strict  language  is  tart?  By  what 
feature  is  **  tart"  distinguishable  from  other  kinds 
of  pies  ?  The  answer  may  not  be  sought  in  its  in- 
gredients, though  some  of  our  culinary  writers 
countenance  the  erroneous  notion  that  tarts  are  in- 
debted for  their  distinctive  appellation  to  the  acidu- 
lous quality  of  the  materials  served  on  their  pastry. 
The  difference  is  one  of  manner,  instead  of  matter. 
Pies  may  be  of  flesh  or  fish,  and  yet  be  tarts.  They 
may  be  of  fruit,  and  yet  be  only  pies.  The  etymo- 
logical and  gastronomic  distinctions  of  **  pie"  and 
*•  tart"  consist  altogether  in  the  fashion  of  the 
paste.  The  word  "  tart,"  tarte  in  the  French, 
comes  to  us  from  the  Latin  forfa,  the  participle  of 
torquere,  to  twist.  Tart,  the  thing,  is  paste  twisted 
into  fantastic  shapes.  Lord  Lytton  spoke  correctly 
of  the  "  tarts  and  confectionery,  tortured  into  a  thou- 
sand fantastic  shapes,"  that  appeared  in  the  third 


TRAPS   AND   COFFINS.  47 

course  of  Glaucus's  Pompeiian  supper.  Whatever 
the  compound  offered  on  the  crust,  a  piece  of  UU' 
covered  plain  pastry,  that  has  undergone  no  torturing 
touches  at  the  cook's  hands,  is  an  "  open  pie."  A 
pie,  whether  closed  or  open,  whether  its  contents 
be  meat,  or  fruit,  or  custard,  may  be  called  "  tart" 
when  any  portion  of  its  paste  has  been  twisted  or 
manipulated  fancifully  by  the  maker. 

The  vessel,  or  dish  of  paste,  i.e.^  the  primitive 
patty-pan,  fashioned  to  receive  the  ingredients  of  a 
pasty,  was  called  in  the  Old  English  kitchen  a 
"  trap."  When  covered  with  a  lid  of  paste,  so  as  to 
be  the  case  or  shell  of  a  closed  pie,  it  was  called  a 
coflBn.  In  such  traps,  open,  grated,  or  coffined,  our 
cooks  of  olden  time  put  flesh,  fish,  fruit,  vegetables, 
and  the  various  compounds  of  milk  and  eggs,  now- 
a-days  called  custard.  Any  compound  kept  in  store 
ready  to  be  put  into  such  traps  was  termed  "  tartee." 
In  the  "  Forme  of  Cury"  may  be  found  receipts  for 
tartees  of  flesh,  fish,  herbs,  apples,  and  dry  fruit. 
The  same  old  work  gives  us  the  word  **  tartelette," 
as  a  term  for  any  pie  of  moderate  size  and  tortured 
pastry.  A  tortured  pie,  big  enough  to  feed  half-a- 
dozen  persons,  was  sometimes  styled  a  "  tartlette" 
by  Richard  the  Second's  cooks,  who  also  made  very 
minute  tartlets — no  bigger  than  our  smallest  mince 
pies — that  were  often  served  swimming  in*  pot- 
tage. 


48  A   BOOK  ABOUT  THE   TABLE. 

^  ^jU/Aadx  Another  Old  English  term  for  pie  was  *^  crustard," 

corrupted  in  the  course  of  time  to  custard.  On 
being  baked  so  that  it  had  the  hardness  of  ice  or 
the  shell  of  a  fish,  farinaceous  paste  was  at  an  early 
period  of  our  cuisine  called  crust,  from  the  Latin 
crusta.  In  mediasval  England  pies  of  every  kind 
might  be  called  crustards ;  but  in  our  Elizabethan 
age  the  term  seems  to  have  been  confined  to  fruit- 
pies  and  milk-pudding  pies.  At  that  time  apple- 
pies  were  commonly  called  **  custards,"  and  apples 
good  for  use  in  pies — i.e.,  what  are  now-a-days 
termed  *'  good  cooking-apples" — were  sold  as  custard 
(or  costard)  apples,  and  then  as  **  costards."  The 
fruit  having  been  so  designated,  the  dealers  in  cook- 
ing apples  were  called  costard  (or  coster)  mongers. 
**  Coddling"  was  another  term  produced  by  the 
same  period  to  designate  a  good  cooking-apple. 
**  To  coddle"  is  "  to  intenerate  by  the  heat  of  gently 
boiling  water ;"  and  the  apple  which  could  be  thus 
cossetted  and  coddled  into  tenderness  was  styled 
"  a  codling."  The  term  was  occasionally  applied 
to  other  vegetables  which  yielded  readily  to  the 
influence  of  the  pot.  For  instance,  peas  that 
softened  readily  in  hot  water  were  "  codling  peas." 
Mr.  Gifford  was  of  the  questionable  opinion  that 
Ford's  "  hot  codlings"  in  "  The  Sun's  Darling"  were 
hot  peas. 

Robert  May  gives  several    receipts  for  cooking 


CODLE   YOUE   CODLINGS.  49 

quodlings,  alias  codlings.  He  served  them  in  pies, 
/ooZ-cream,  and  also  in  small  earthen  or  metal  dishes 
(patty-pans)  without  paste.  "  Take  green  quodlings 
and  quodle  them,"  he  says  in  a  direction  for  a 
pie,  "  peel  them  and  put  them  again  into  the  same 
water,  cover  them  close,  and  let  them  simper  on 
embers  till  they  be  very  green,  then  take  them  up 
and  let  them  drain,  pick  out  their  noses,  and  leave 
on  the  stalks,  then  put  them  in  a  pye,  and  put  to 
them  fine  sugar,  whole  cinnamon,  slic't  ginger,  a 
little  musk  and  rose  water,  close  them  up  with  a 
tight  cover,  and  as  soon  as  it  boils  up  in  the  oven, 
draw  it  and  ice  it  with  rose-water,  butter,  and  sugar. 
Or  you  may  preserve  them  and  bake  them  in  a  dish, 
with  paste,  tart,  or  patty-pan." 

The  same  chefs  receipt  for  codling  cream  is  also 
noteworthy.  "  Codle  forty  fair  codlings  green  and 
tender,  then  peel  them  and  core  them,  and  beat 
them,  strain  them  with  a  quarte  of  cream,  and  mix 
them  well  together  in  a  dish  with  fine  sugar,  sack, 
musk,  and  rose-water.  This  you  may  do  with  any 
fruit  you  please."  Fruit  thus  boiled,  pressed  through 
a  sieve  or  colander,  and  mixed  with  cream  or  new 
milk,  was  called  fruit  foule^  speedily  corrupted  into 
"  fruit  fool."  Gooseberry  cream,  or  fool,  still  re- 
tains the  foolish  designation. 

Pear-pie  is  seldom  seen  now-a-dayson  the  English 
table ;  but  no  fruit-dish  was  more  highly  esteemed 

VOL.  n.  E 


60  A   BOOK   ABOUT  THE   TABLE. 

by  our  ancestors  than  a  tart  of  warden-pears,  i.e., 
the  warden-pie  celebrated  in  a  well-known  song  by 
a  composer  of  the  present  century.     **Bake  your 
wardens  or  pears  in  an   oven,"  says  the  author  of 
"  The  Court  and  Kitchen  of  Elizabeth   Cromwell'* 
(1664),  "  with  a  little  water  and  good  quantity  of 
sugar,   let  your   pot .  be   covered  with   a  piece  of 
dough,  let  them  not  be  fully  baked  by  a  quarter  of 
an  hour ;  when  they  are  cold  make  a  high  coflBn, 
and  put  them  in  whole,  adding  to  them  some  cloves, 
whole  cinnajmon,  sugar,  with  some  liquor  they  were 
boiled  in,  so  bake  it."     Another  receipt  for  a  warden- 
dish  appears  in  an   earlier  work,  to  which  the  com- 
piler of  "  The  Court  and  Kitchen"  was  largely  in- 
debted.     "  You   must,"    says   the   author    of    "  A 
Cookery  Book"  (1650),  *'  bake  your  wardens  6rst  in 
a  pye^  and  then  take  all  the  wardens  and  cut  them 
in  foure  quarters,  and  coare  them,  and  put  them  in 
a  tart  pinched y  with  your  sugar,  cinamon  and  ginger, 
and  set  them  in  an  oven,  and  put  no  cover  on  them  ; 
but  you  must  cut  a  cover,  and  lay  on  the  tart  when 
it  is  baked,   and   butter  the  tart  and  cover  too,  and 
endore  it  with  sugar."     This  receipt  is  interesting 
as  testimony  that  so  late  as   the  seventeenth  cen- 
tury our  more  exact  writers  on  cookery  drew  the 
right  distinction  between  "  pie"  and  "  tart,"  apply- 
ing the  latter  term  only  to  "  pie"  which  had  been 
curiously  handled.     Pastry  became  "  tan"  on  being 


0U8TABDS   OB  COSTARDS.  51 

pinched  with  the  fingers,  and  the  entire  piece  of 
pinched  pastry  was  the  tart  on  which  the  fruit  was 
laid.  The  cover,  a  plain  lid  of  pie,  was  no  part  of 
the  fantastically-shaped  paste,  to  which,  alone  the 
term  "  tart"  was  strictly  applicable." 

This  same  Book  of  Cookery  for  1650  gives 
another  receipt,  in  which  tart  is  used  in  the  same 
carefully  limited  sense.  "  To  make  a  tart  of  cuS" 
tards — You  must  take  halfe  a  hundreth  of  custards^ 
and  pare  them,  and  cut  them,  and  as  soon  as  you 
have  cut  them,  put  them  in  a  pot,  and  put  in  two 
or  three  pound  of  sugar,  and  a  pint  of  water,  and  a 
little  rose-water,  and  stirre  from  the  time  you  put 
them  in,  until  the  time  you  take  them  out  again ; 
or  else  you  may  also  put  it  in  a  dish,  and  when 
your  tart  is  made,  put  it  in  the  oven,  and  when  it 
is  baked  endore  it  with  butter,  and  throw  sugar  on 
the  top,  and  then  put  on  your  sauce,  and  set  com- 
fits on  the  top,  and  so  serve  it."  To  the  writer  of 
these  directions  the  fruit  and  tart  were  separate 
things.      Having    been   coddled   in    the    pot,    the 

• 

"  custards"  were  laid  upon  the  baked  tart-paste, 
which  was  forthwith  glazed  and  garnished.  **  A 
tart  of  custards"  signified  a  mess  of  "coddled 
custards  served  on  tart,"  or  twisted  pastry.  The 
same  habit  of  discriminating  between  the  compo- 
nent parts  of  an  elaborate  pie,  i.e.,  between  the 
tart  and  the  material  served  with  it,    appears   in 

£  2 


52  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

"The  Good  Huswives  Handmaid,"  (1595),  "The 
Widdowe's  Treasure,"  (1595),  and  "The  Good 
Huswife's  Jewell,"  (1595-7),  from  which  the  com- 
piler of  1 650  took  the  greater  part  of  his  materials 
for  "  A  Cookery  Book."  By  the  way,  one  of  the 
receipts  in  the  "  Huswife's  Jewell"  is  for  "  a  tart  that 
is  a  courage  to  a  man  or  woman."  In  this  case, 
the  preparation  served  on  tart  was  a  boiled  and 
strained  mess  of  quinces,  vegetables,  roots,  yolks 
of  eggs  and  brains  of  sparrows,  highly  qualified 
with  wine  and  spices. 

Whilst  pies  were  termed  crustards  or  custards, 
and  milk-puddings  of  every  variety  were  served  in 
plain  or  tart  pastry,  a  common  preparation  of  milk 
and  eggs  gradually  acquired  its  now  distinctive 
name  from  the  crust  in  which  it  was  generally 
brought  to  table.  It  is  long  since  apple-pie  was 
usually  termed  a  "  tart  of  custards."  Even  in  our 
markets  the  fruit  from  which  our  costermongers 
derive  their  designation  is  rarely  called  a  costard. 
But  whether  they  be  baked  or  boiled,  the  grateful 
combinations  of  milk  and  eggs  are  still  termed 
custard  from  the  baked  paste,  which  in  olden  time 
used  to  embed  and  cover  them. 

Humble-pie,  a  pasty  to  which  we  are  indebted 
for  several  familiar  and  pungent  sayings,  was  largely 
eaten  at  the  old  English  table  by  gourmands  of 
every  grade,  and  at  the  Elizabethan  table  by  per- 


HCMBLB   PIE.  63 

sons   whose   quality   did   not  entitle  them  to  the 
best  fare. 

The  word  "  umbles'*  (from  the  Latin  umbilicus) 
has  been  long  used  to  designate  the  entrails  and 
other  internal  parts  of  the  deer,  Webster  gives 
this  limited  meaning  of  the  term,  and  Pegge  used 
the  word  in  the  same  restricted  sense.  In  our 
mediaeval  time,  however,  the  abdominal  viscera  of 
swine,  sheep  and  oxen  were  called  "umbles." 
P^gg^'s  *'  Ancient  Cookery"  (No.  3)  contains  a 
receipt  for  humble-stew,  which  begins  thus  :  "  Take 
nombuls  of  a  calf,  or  of  a  swyne,  or  of  a  shepe." 
The  term  even  comprehended  the  paunches  of  the 
larger  fishes.  "  Nombuls  of  purpoys"  were  cooked 
like  those  of  swyne  in  the  fourteenth  century,  and 
the  compilers  of  "  The  Forme  of  Cury"  give 
directions  how  "  to  make  noumbles  for  Lent,"  out 
of  the  chopt  "  panches  of  pykes,  of  congers,  and 
of  great  cod  lyng."  Our  feudal  ancestors  were 
great  consumers  of  umbles,  serving  them  in  half- 
a-dozen  diflferent  ways  and  spelling  the  name  in  as 
many  various  fashions.  They  had  soups,  hashes, 
stews,  and  pasties  of  humbles.  Tripe,  at  present 
seldom  seen  in  the  houses  of  the  rich,  though  still 
acceptable  to  the  populace,  was  one  of  the  humble- 
messes  in  which  the  old  English  delighted.  The 
same  may  be  said  of  the  liver-and-bacon,  i.e.,  pig's 
fry,  beloved  by  Lord  Chancellor  Eldon. 


54  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

In  the  days  of  the  Plantagenets,  humbles  of  all 
kinds  were  rated  as  dainty  fare.     Bat  the  Tudor 
cooks  and  epicures  *  regarded  them  with   qualified 
disdain,  as  meat  fit  for  the  inferior  boards  of  noble 
banquets,  but  inappropriate  to  the  highest  tables. 
Humbles  having   thus    fallen   into    disesteem,     it 
became  the  fashion  to  serve  them  in  pies  and  hashes 
to  sitters  beneath  the  salt,  whilst  the  occupants  of 
the  higher  seats  were  regaled  with  slices  from  the 
prime   joints.     The    usage    gave    rise    to    several 
phrases.     To  eat  humble- pie  was  to  sit  at  the  lower 
table,  and,  in  the  case  of  an  arrogant  guest,  to  ex- 
perience humiliation.     Children  of  the  riper  ages 
were   often   threatened   with   "  humble-pie,"   as  a 
punishment  for  misbehaviour ;  that  is  to  say,  they 
were  menaced  with  degradation  from  their  places 
above  the  salt  at  the  family  table.     Under  the  rule 
of  severe   parents,  a  young  lady  of  marriageable 
years  would  for  some  venial  offence — such  as  mala- 
pertness  to  mamma,  or  coquetry  with  an  ineligible 
suitor — lose  her  right  to  sit  with  her  brothers  and 
sisters,  and  be  required  for  a  month  at  a  time  to 
take  her  place  at  meals  with  the  superior  depend- 
ents of  the  household.     Whilst   thus  in    disgrace, 
she  was  said  to  be  eating  humble-pie.     On  amend- 
ing her  ways,  and  showing  fit  penitence,  she  was 
restored  to  the  company  and  joints  of  the  higher 
board.     Contumacious  boys,  too  old  to  be  whipped 


THE   PKOG-EATT]^a   ITALIANS,  55 

and  put  in  the  comer,  were  in  like  manner  reduced 
to  proper  submissiveness  with  ignominious  diet  at 
the  bottom  of  the  table. 

Before  it  thus  took  rank  with  the  birch  and  the 
foolscap  as  an  instrument  of  domestic  punishment, 
humble-pie  had  lost  much  of  its  original  merit. 
John  Murrell  taught  the  readers  of  his  "New 
Cookery  Book"  (1630)  how,  in  the  absence  of 
"  right  humbles,"  to  make  humble-pies  of  sheeps- 
head  and  the  minced  "  pluck."  Henceforth  the 
common  pasty  of  the  lower  table  seldom  contained 
anything  better  than  livers  and  hearts  of  oxen. 
More  often  than  not,  its  thick,  heavy  crust  covered 
an  omnium -gatherum  of  scraps  and  bones  and  other 
refuse  of  the  previous  week's  dinners,  recooked  with 
potatoes  and  slices  of  pumpkin.  In  fact,  it  became 
that  gastronomic  abomination  which  the  wit  of  a 
more  recent  age  christened  "  The  Refuge  of  the 
Destitute." 

On  his  return  from  Italy,  Thomas  Coryate  com- 
mended frogs  as  delicate  fare  to  the  notice  of  his 
fellow-countrymen ;  and  the  suggestion  was  ere 
long  fruitful  of  the  frog-pies  which  the  epicures  of 
Charles  the  First's  London  ate  with  infinite  gust. 
In  his  directions  for  cooking  "  frogs  in  the  Italian 
fashion,"  Robert  May  orders  that  their  thighs 
should  be  dressed  with,  and  served  in,  pastry, 
together  with  the  flesh  of  eels  and  fruit.     "  Season 


56  A   BOOK   A60CT  THE   TABLE. 

them  both  with  pepper,  nutmeg,  and  ginger,"  says 
the  chef,  "  lay  butter  on  your  paste,  and  lay  a  rank 
of  frog,  and  a  rank  of  eel,  some  currants,  goose- 
berries or  grapes,  raisins,  pine-apple  seeds,  juyce  of 
orange,  sugar,  and  butter  :  this  do  three  times,  dose 
up  your  dish,  and  being  baked,  ice  it,"  i.e.,  with 
sugar.  Frog-pie,  thus  compounded,  was  often  seen 
at  the  best  London  tables,  any  time  between  James 
the  First's  later  years  and  Charles  the  Second's 
death.  Just  as  George  the  Third's  commonalty 
scorned  the  French  for  living  chiefly  on  frogs,  the 
"  populace"  of  England  in  the  seventeenth  century 
imagined  that  frogs  were  the  principal  food  of  the 
fantastic  and  vicious  Italians. 

Readers  of  "  The  Sentimental  Journey"  do  not 
need  to  be  reminded  that,  in  consideration  of  their 
amphibious  nature,  the  church  rated  frogs  as  a 
species  of  fish,  and  allowed  the  faithful  to  eat  them 
during  Lent,  a  fact  that  accounts  for  the  esteem  in 
which  their  weak  and  flavourless  flesh  was  held  by 
gastronomers  in  Catholic  countries.  Poor  viand 
though  it  was,  frog-flesh  was  better  than  none. 
The  sea-fowl,  called  in  France  "  macreuse,"  was 
also  allowed  for  Lenten  diet  to  pious  gourmands 
who  relished  the  bird  of  rank  fishy  taste  on  meagre 
days,  but  never  touched  it  when  they  might  eat 
better  meat.  The  large  circular  macreuse  pies, 
served  at  the  table  of  Louis  XIY.  in  seasons  of 


SURPRISE   PASTRY.  67 

fasting,    sometimes    measured    two    feet    in    dia- 
meter. 

Another  pie,  highly  fashionable  in  Stuart  England, 
was  the  surprise-pie,  which  was  no  sooner  opened 
than  one  or  more  living  creatures  issued  from  the 
breach  in  the  crust.  A  pie  of  this  kind  might  con- 
tain half-a-dozen  live  frogs,  that  on  leaping  from 
the  crust  to  the  table-cloth,  and  from  the  cloth  to  a 
lady's  plate  or  lap,  would  throw  her  into  hysterics. 
Or  it  might  with  equal  propriety  hide  a  score  live 
sparrows  that,  on  escaping  from  the  pie-dish,  would 
fly  to  the  candles  and  put  a  large  supper-party  in 
darkness.  Robert  May  served  a  surprise-pie  of  frogs, 
and  another  of  birds,  in  the  Twelfth  Night  trophy 
mentioned  in  a  former  chapter  of  this  work.  To 
such  a  bird-pie,  served  at  Charles  the  First's  table, 
when  these  **  surprises"  were  not  more  absurd  than 
novel,  we  are  indebted  for  the  rhymes  : 

"  Sing  a  song  of  sixpence ! 

Sing  it  to  the  sky ! 
Four  and-twentj  black-birds  baked  in  pie, 

W^hen  the  pie  was  opened. 

The  birds  began  to  sing, 
Wasn't  this  a  pretty  sight  to  set  before  the  king.'' 

Pies  of  live  birds  and  frogs  having  become  matters 
of  course  to  modish  revellers,  other  creatures  were 
employed  to  sustain  the  surprising  character  of 
surprise    pastry.       Toy-terriers,    squirrels,    hares, 


58  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

foxes,  and  mannikia  pages  were  in  turn  used  for 
the  astonishment  of  people  who,  on  the  look-out 
for  a  live  pie  of  some  kind,  could  be  startled  only 
by  the  apparition  of  an  unexpected  animal.  When 
a  score  different  creatures  had  beqn  served  in  sur- 
prise pies  to  Charles  the  First,  and  he  was  weary 
of  surprises  that  were  no  longer  astonishing,  his 
humour  was  pleasantly  tickled  by  the  unlooked-for 
appearance  of  the  dwarf,  Jeffrey  Hudson,  who  had 
been  placed  under  crust  on  a  table  spread  for  the 
entertainment  of  royalty  at  Burleigh-on-the-Hill. 
The  sovereign  had  been  trapped  into  asking  for  a 
piece  of  the  unusually  large  game-pie,  when,  on  the 
removal  of  the  cover  of  paste,  the  dwarf,  armed 
with  Bword  and  buckler,  sprang  from  the  "  coffin," 
and  ran  down  the  table  to  his  liege  lord  and  Hen- 
rietta Maria.  In  the  "Anecdotes  of  Painting," 
Horace  Walpole  says  that  this  incident  occurred 
some  time  about  1630,  whilst  their  Majesties  were 
the  guests  of  the  Duke  and  Duchess  of  Buckingham. 
It  would  have  fared  ill  with  any  officious  servitor 
who  had  ventured  to  arrest  the  imp  as  he  danced 
down  the  table,  clearing  in  successive  leaps  the 
dishes  in  his  way;  for  the  diminutive  page  had 
already  earned  a  reputation  for  dare-devil  pug- 
nacity. Nettled  by  the  affront,  he  would  have 
seized  the  first  opportunity  to  avenge  it  with  thjB 
sword  that  had  been  put  into  his  hands  for  sportive 


A   DWARF   IN   ARMS.  59 

use.  A  more  fearless  and  impetuous  fellow  never 
lived  than  this  pie-famous  page,  who,  on  attaining 
his  majority  and  the  fullness  of  his  small  stature,  be- 
came as  conspicuous  in  arms  as  Eichard  Gibson 
(Charles  the  First's  mannikin  and  wimafwre-painter) 
was  in  arts.  A  captain  in  the  Royal  Army,  he 
distinguished  himself  in  service  against  the  rebels 
of  the  Long  Parliament,  and  after  retiring  to  Franco 
in  the  suite  of  Henrietta  Maria,  exhibited  his  martial 
prowess  by  fighting  a  duel  on  horseback  with  Mr. 
Crofts,  and  killing  Iiira  at  the  first  shot.  Always 
carrying  pistols,  which  he  used  with  equal  prompti- 
tude and  dexterity,  Jeff'rey  never  shirked  the  kind  of 
combat  in  which  his  minuteness  gave  him  the  ad- 
vantage over  men  of  large  size.  Too  small  to  be 
hit,  he  was  quite  big  enough  to  kill.  When  Pope 
assumed  pocket  fire-arms  in  self-defence,  observing 
that  with  pistols  the  pigmy  was  a  match  for  tho 
giant,  ho  is  supposed  to  have  alluded  to  little  Hudson ; 
who,  by  the  way,  eventually  died  of  gaol  fever  in  the 
Gate-House,  where  he  had  been  taken  on  suspicion  of 
complicity  in  the  Popish  plot. 

Some  of  the  pasties  set  before  English  epicures 
in  the  seventeenth  century  were  so  loaded  with  fat 
and  larded  meat,  that  it  gives  one  a  sick  headache  to 
read  the  orders  for  their  composition.  Robert  May 
served  a  generation  that  delighted  in  marrow-pies 
and  bacon-tarts.     In  cold  seasons  Giles  Rose  often 


60  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

sent  to  Charles  the  Second's  board  a  pasty  of 
Westphalia  Gantmon,  from  which  the  grossest 
feeders  of  our  time  would  turn  with  disgust.  The 
gammon  was  boiled,  minced,  sugared,  larded,  and 
seasoned  with  cinnamon,  pepper,  and  citron  before 
it  was  cased  in  dough,  and  committed  to  the  oven. 
On  being  taken  from  the  oven,  it  was  drenched  with 
lemon-juice,  covered  with  sugar,  and  served  hot. 
A  choicer  compound  for  epicures,  disposed  to  heart- 
burn and  bilious  headache,  was  the  London  pie,  a 
receipt  for  which  may  be  found  in  the  "  Archi- 
magirus  Anglo-Gallicus,"  the  cookery-book  attached 
by  its  audacious  compiler  to  the  fame  of  Sir  Theodore 
Mayerne,  the  physician,  who  was  no  more  account- 
able for  the  treatise  than  Abernethy  was  for  the 
nasty  seed-biscuit  which  simple  people  still  con- 
sume to  their  injury,  under  the  impression  that  it 
was  invented  by  the  great  surgeon  for  the  special 
comfort  of  dyspeptic  sufferers. 

"  Take  eight  marrow-bones,"  says  the  author 
of  "  Archimagirus  Anglo  -  Gallicus,"  "  eighteen 
sparrows,  one  pound  of  potatoes,  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  eringoes,  two  ounces  of  lettuce-stalks, 
forty  chesnuts,  a  peck  of  oysters,  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  preserved  citron,  three  artichokes,  twelve 
eggs,  two  sliced  lemons,  a  handful  of  pickled  bar- 
berries,  a  quarter  of  an  ounice  of  whole  pepper,  half 
an  ounce  of  sliced  nutmeg,  half  an  ounce  of  whole 


MONSTROUS   PASTIES.  61 

cloves,  half  an  ounce  of  mace,  and  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  currants.  Liquor,  when  it  is  baked,  with 
white  wine,  butter,  and  sugar."  Mr.  Robert 
Chambers  asserts  that  a  pie  made  in  accordance 
with  this  receipt  was  eaten  not  long  since  with  lively 
satisfaction  by  a  party  of  gastronomers.  The  reader 
probably  will  not  regret  that  he  had  no  finger  in 
the  mess. 

Whilst  the  French  were  famous  for  the  enormity 
of  their  Lenten  macreuse-pies,  the  English  achieved 
celebrity  by  making  turkey-pies  of  prodigious  cir- 
cumference and  weight.  Dr.  Lister  states  that  in 
the  diocese  of  Durham  a  hundred  squab  turkeys  were 
put  into  a  single  pie  for  the  regalement  of  the 
bishop's  clerical  visitors.  Though  a  mere  patty  by 
the  side  of  one  of  these  Durham  pasties,  the  pie  made 
at  Howick  in  1 770  for  the  regalement  of  Sir  Henry 
Grey*s  London  friends  was  a  weighty  matter.  Mrs. 
Dorothy  Patterson,  the  Howick  housekeeper,  used 
two  bushels  of  flour  and  twenty  pounds  of  butter  in 
the  manufacture  of  its  crust,  which  contained  four 
geese,  two  turkeys,  two  rabbits,  four  wild  ducks, 
two  woodcocks,  six  snipes,  and  four  partridges,  two 
neats'  tongues,  two  curlews,  six  blackbirds,  and  six 
pigeons.  Put  in  the  scales,  this  monstrous  pasty 
raised  the  weight  of  twelve  stones.  At  Sir  Henry 
Grey's  table  it  was  served  on  a  carriage  fitted  with 


62  A   BOOK  ABOUT  THE   TABLE. 

four  wheels,  so  that  it  was  easily  moved  to  and  fro 
bj  its  admiring  consumers. 

But  no  pie  still  served  at  the  English  table  has 
stronger  claims  than  the  minced  or  shred  pie  to  the 
student's  respectful  consideration.  Pasties  of  su- 
perior flavour  and  delicacy  rise  to  the  epicure's 
imagination  at  the  sound  of  the  word  "  pie,"  but  he 
will  search  in  vain  for  a  more  ancient  or  widely- 
famous  crustard.  Not  more  rich  in  multifarious 
ingredients  than  in  historic  associations,  it  proclaims 
the  origin  of  our  Old  English  cuisine,  and  com- 
memorates the  cookery  which  prevailed  in  England 
from  the  Roman  occupation  to  the  decay  of  feudalism. 
Made  on  Apician  principles,  of  many  materials  and 
with  an  unsparing  use  of  the  knife,  it  was  served  at 
British  and  Saxon  tables  of  pre-Norman  date,  and 
after  witnessing  the  culinary  changes  of  a  thousand 
years,  it  remains  a  dainty  for  men  of  all  estates,  and 
a  symbol  of  festivity  even  to  the  valetudinarians  who 
dare  not  eat  it.  The  theme  of  poets  who  sung  before 
the  invention  of  printing,  it  also  elicited  countless 
pleasantries  from  the  Elizabethan  wits,  and  became 
a  subject  of  controversy  to  the  pulpiteers  and 
fanatics  of  the  seventeenth  century.  The  Christmas 
Pie  of  Little  Jack  Homer,  was  made  in  prodigious 
quantities  for  the  festal  requirements  of  a  season 
when,  in  default  of  fresh  fruit  from  the  garden  and 
orchard,  the  lovers  of  good  cheer  squandered  their 


MINCED  FIBS.  63 

money  on  preserved  fruits,  and  gratefully  accepted 
the  raisin  as  a  substitute  for  the  grape.  But  it 
is  a  mistake  to  suppose  that  it  was  seen  only  at 
Christmas.  Easter  holiday-makers  preferred  the 
cheesecake  and  custard  of  milk  and  eggs  to  the  pre- 
paration of  dried  fruit,  on  which  they  had  often 
feasted  to  satiety  during  the  previous  months.  And 
as  soon  as  the  fruits  of  the  garden  and  orchard 
came  in  season  no  time  was  lost  in  bringing  them 
to  table,  for  whilst  prudence  counselled  that  such 
perishable  blessings  should  be  enjoyed  when  they 
could  be  obtained,  the  heat  created  a  universal 
appetite  for  cooling  and  acidulous  food.  But  the 
pie,  which  took  one  of  its  names  from  the  season 
when  no  other  fruit-pie  could  be  had,  was  never 
quite  out  of  season.  Adored  and  devoured  immode- 
rately in  the  Winter,  it  was  eaten  thankfully  in 
Spring  and  Autumn,  and  not  altogether  neglected 
in  the  dog-days. 

Nor  are  there  sufficient  grounds  for  the  common 
opinion  that  the  seventeenth  century  Puritans  ab- 
horred mince-pie  as  a  thing  reverenced  supersti- 
tiously,  if  not  worshipped  idolatrously,  by  the 
malignant  multitude.  Some  few  of  the  more  igno- 
rant people  unquestionably  regarded  it  with  senti- 
ments of  religious  enthusiasm ;  and  Anabaptists 
of  the  wildest  and  fiercest  kind  occasionally  de- 
nounced the  pie  as  a  Pagan  contrivance  for  bringing 


64  A   BOOK   ABOUT   THE   TABLE. 

Bouls  to  perdition.  But  it  would  be  unjust  to 
attribute  the  extravagances  of  a  score  fanatics  to 
the  general  body  of  the  Puritans  who,  disapproving^ 
of  Christmas  revelries,  refrained  from  eating  rich 
fare  at  a  season  which  they  devoted  to  religious 
exercises  and  serious  meditation.  Samuel  Butler 
admits  that  the  Puritans,  whom  he  covered  with 
ridicule,  were  not  more  ready  to  eat  mince-pie  than 
to  speak  hard  words  of  other  Christmas  delicacies, 

"  Rather  than  fail  they  will  decry 
That  which  they  love  most  tenderly ; 
Quarrel  with  minc'd  pies,  and  disparap^e 
Their  best  and  dearest  friend,  plum -porridge, 
Fat  pig  and  goose  itself  oppose, 
And  blaspheme  custard  through  the  nose." 

The  political  satirist  may  be  excused  for  omitting  to 
remark  that  these  opponents  of  pig  and  goose 
only  denounced  the  custom  of  feasting  greedily  on 
such  dainties  in  the  Christmas  week,  and  had  enousrh 
gastronomic  sensibility  to  relish  "  pie"  at  less  sacred 
seasons.  Butler's  biographer,  however,  had  the 
fairness  to  exhibit  this  side  of  Puritan  opinion  with 
regard  to  luxuries  of  the  table.  "  We,"  says  Samuel 
Johnson,  "have  never  been  witnesses  of  animosities 
excited  by  the  use  of  raince-pies  and  plum-porridge, 
nor  seen  with  what  abhorrence  those  who  could  eat 
them  at  all  other  times  of  the  year  would  shrink 
from  them  at  Christmas." 


CHEISTMAS   PIE.  65 

The   author   of  **Hudibras"  was   not   the   only 
Eoyalist  wit  to  insist  that,  in  censuring  what  they 
deemed  an   abuse   of  pie,  the  Puritans  quarrelled 
with  pie  itself.     A  chapter,  if  not  a  volume,  could 
be  made  of  scraps  of  merry  writing,  that  thus  mis- 
state the  attitude  and  object  of  the  "  sour  fanatics'* 
in  a  controversy  which  ended  in  their  defeat.     The 
war  about  plums  only  confirmed  the  populace  in  its 
seasonable  love  of  them,  and  gave  an  almost  sacred 
significance   to   the   dried  fruit  and   spices  which 
had  been  adopted  as  chief  ingredients  of  Christmas 
fare,  merely  because  no  better  materials  for  sweet 
food  could  be  bought  in  mid-winter.     In  the  reac- 
tion against  Puritanism,  the  soup  abhorred  by  the 
saints  was  extolled  by  the  sinners  above  all  other 
pottages ;    and  persons    with    no    sincere    liking 
for  "  pie"  ate  it  greedily,  from  a  sense  of  politico- 
religious  duty,  at  the   season  in  which   they  had 
been  sanctimoniously  admonished  to   abstain  from 
it.     Ay,    more,  in  their  contempt  for  Puritanism, 
the  people,  gradually  ceasing  to  eat  plum-food  at 
other  festivals,    declared    that   the   slandered   pie 
should   be  deemed  strictly  seasonable  at  no  time 
but  Christmas. 

At  present  the  national  pie  is  seldom  seen  at  the 
best  tables,  save  in  the  form  of  small  covered  tart- 
lets ;  but  in  the  seventeenth  century  it  was  usually 
served  in  large  rectangular  crustards.     The  Christ- 

VOL.    11.  F 


60  A    LrjK    XBr'jZT   THE   TABLE- 

mas  pie  of  the  Restoration  cuisine,  rarely  weighing 
less  than  fourteen  pounds,  often  exceeded  several 
stones  in  weight.  Selden  gravely  declared  that  its 
coffin  was  made  in  imitation  of  the  infant  Saviour's 
cratch  or  manger.  TThen  the  learned  and  seldom 
incautious  antiquary  could  speak  thus  wildly  of  the 
oldest  form  of  pie-trap,  which  had  been  used  from 
the  earliest  days  of  our  mediaeval  cookery  for  pies  of 
every  size  and  variety,  the  multitude  were  assured 
by  more  imaginative  scribes  that  the  rich  meat 
lying  in  the  cratch  was  symbolical  of  the  Saviour's 
nature. 

It  should  also  be  observed  that,  though  made  on 
Apician  principles  and  with  nice  observance  of  the 
process  from  which  it  derives  its  name,  modern 
mince-meat  differs  materially  from  the  "  mince"  of 
olden  time.  Consisting  chiefly  of  flesh,  the  mediaeval 
shred  pasty  was  a  meat-pie  with  just  enough  dried 
fruits  to  give  the  flesh  a  fruity  flavour.  The  fruits, 
the  costliest  of  its  materials,  were  quite  subordi- 
nate ingredients  of  the  compound,  that  sometimes 
contained  a  score  of  difterent  kinds  of  flesh.  By 
degrees  the  proportion  of  fruit  was  increased,  in 
compliance  with  a  growing  taste  for  raisins  and 
citron-peel,  and  also  from  the  hospitable  reluctance 
of  entertainers  to  exhibit  parsimony  in  the  use  of 
such  expensive  dainties.  The  developments  of 
British  commerce,  however,  had  brought  the  dried 


SUBSTANCE   Ax\D   FLAVOUR.  67 

fruits  and  spices  of  Southern  Europe  to  the  tables 
of  our     prosperous    commonalty,    if  not    of  our 
poorer  folk,  long  before  the  foreign  ingredients  of 
the  national  pie  were  used  profusely  even  in  the 
kitchens  of  the  wealthy.     Raisins  of  the  sun  and 
currants  from  the  Levant  were  not  exhibited  in  the 
window  of  every  village  grocer's  shop  in  the  seven- 
teenth, or  even  in  the  eighteenth  century.     Bought 
at  prices   that   would    scandalize  housekeepers  of 
the  present  time,  they  were  kept  under  lock  and 
key,  and  brought  out  at  festal  times  with  proper 
regard   for   their  costliness.     In    "  weighing    out" 
such  luxuries  on   the  approach  of  Christmas,  the 
thrifty  dame  of  a  Caroline  household  kept  a  sharp 
eye  on  the  beam  of  her  store-room  scales.     What 
the  "receipt"    demanded   she   gave   honestly   and 
precisely.     But  she  never  threw  in  an  extra  plum 
or  drachm  of  peel.     A  century  later  such  care  was 
needless.     Dried  fruits  were  cheaper,  and  as  they 
fell  in  price,  they  were  used  more  lavishly  in  festive 
messes.     The  rapid  growth  of  our  commerce  was 
reflected  in  our  pie-pans,  and  proclaimed  by  every 
Christmas  pudding.     It   had  worked  a   revolution 
in  our  oldest  national  dish.     What  was  once  only 
its  costly  flavour  had  become  its  chief  and  cheap 
substance,  and  the  fleshly  ingredients  which  in  old 
time  afforded  nine-tenths  of  its  bulk  had  become 
the  subordinate  elements  of  Christmas  pie.     Modern 

F  2 


68  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THB  TABLE. 

taste  redaced  still  farther  the  fleshly  constituents  of 
the  revolationized  pie.  For  awhile  it  authorized 
the  use  of  mutton  as  a  material  for  qualifying  the 
excessive  richness  of  the  fruits.  Ere  long  the  soft 
neat's  tongue  was  substituted  for  mutton.  At 
present,  finely  chopt  suet  is  the  only  animal  sub- 
stance used  in  the  mince-meat  of  our  best  house- 
keepers, and  this  last  survivor  of  all  the  flesh,  that 
once  dwelt  in  Christmas  pie,  is  retained  as  a 
whimsical  additament  and  a  graceful  reference  to 
the  history  of  the  compound,  rather  than  as  a 
fundamental  ingredient. 

But  whilst  our  ancestors  of  the  seventeenth 
ceAtury,  and  earlier  half  of  the  following  age,  were 
enriching  the  mince-pie  with  larger  and  larger 
quantities  of  fruit  and  candied  rind  to  the  ultimate 
exclusion  of  its  ancient  substance^  they  continued  to 
season  their  ordinary  meat-pies  after  the  fashion  of 
their  forefathers,  with  slight  sprinklings  of  dried 
plums  and  currants.  The  meat-pies  that  made 
•**  kit-cat  famous"  were  thus  sweetened  to  the  taste 
of  gourmands,  who  resembled  the  Old  English  in 
liking  to  puzzle  their  palates  with  combinations  of 
incongruous  flavours.  The  same  was  the  case  with 
the  mutton-pies  that  brought  honour  and  wealth  to 
Ben  Tyrrell  at  Oxford.  The  gastronomic  condition, 
which  enabled  our  forefathers  to  relish  such  a  culi- 
nary paradox  as  fruitified  flesh,  is  not  yet  extinct 


FOREIGN    PIES.  69 

from  our  people.  Polite  feeders  are  still  sometimes 
seen  taking  red  currant  jelly  with  roast  mutton  and 
hare.  The  taste  for  plum-sauce — a  barbarous  con- 
trivance for  spoiling  fine  natural  flavours — still 
survives  amongst  the  commonalty  of  our  provinces, 
who  have  been  taught  to  think  it  a  proper  season- 
ing for  meat.  It  has,  however,  entirely  disappeared 
from  Norfolk  since  Rush  the  murderer  ordered  pig 
and  plum-sauce  for  his  last  dinner. 

To  pass  from  mince-pie — the  ancientest  of  all 
still  eaten  pies — to  the  pies  of  Perigord  and  Stras- 
bourg, is  to  withdraw  the  vision  from  a  majestic  oak 
and  survey  the  flowers  of  yesterday.  Much  might 
be  said  in  behalf  of  each  of  these  foreign  pates. 
But  both  are  open  to  objection.  The  pie  of  Stras- 
bourg has  a  noble  flavour  and  distinctive  richness, 
but  whilst  he  requires  an  unusually  strong  stomach 
to  endure  the  one,  the  epicure  must  have  an  un- 
feeling heart  to  enjoy  the  other  quality.  Whatever 
its  excellences,  the  delicacy  which  provokes  bilious 
head-ache  cannot  on  the  whole  be  more  productive 
of  happiness  than  of  misery.  The  dainty,  which 
results  from  the  torture  of  helpless  creatures,  is  no 
choice  fare  for  the  gentle  guest  who  knows  the  secret 
of  its  manufacture.  Epicures  are  strangely  incon- 
sistent, or  they  would  not  shudder  at  the  thought 
of  intenerating  pigs  with  the  lash,  and  a  moment 
later  smile  at  the  agonies  of  the  Strasbourg  geese. 


70  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

The  pie  of  Perigord  is  less  abhorrent  to  the  tender 
heart,  but  even  more  perilous  to  the  failing  stomach. 
Nature  should  either  have  naade  truffles  less  delicious, 
or  have  endowed  all  men  with  the  power  to  digest 
them.  There  are  statisticians  who  insist  that,  when 
he  died  in  the  eighteenth  century,  Gourtois,  the  in- 
ventor of  the  Perigord  pie,  had  killed  raore  men 
than  were  subsequently  destroyed  in  the  Great 
Napoleon's  battles.  Perhaps  the  men  of  numbers 
overstate  the  case.  But  Napoleon  survived  his 
power  of  killing  on  a  grand  scale.  It  ceased  at  his 
faM.  The  destructiveness  of  a  pie-maker  does  not 
necessarily  end  with  his  death.  Courtois  be- 
queathed his  secrets  to  his  daughter,  Madeleine 
Pressac. 


71 


CHAPTER  IV. 

POULTEY. 

"  Onr  tame  foule  are  each  (for  the  most  part)  as  are  common  both 
to  us  and  to  other  countries,  as  cocks,  hens,  geese,  ducks,  peacocks 
of  Inde,  pigeons." — William  Harkison's  "Introduction  to 
HoLiN  shed's  Chronicles." 

"  Beefe,  mutton  and  porke,  shred  pies  of  the  best, 
Pig,  veale,  goose  and  capon  and  turkie  well  drest, 
Chese,  apples  and  nuts,  jolie  carols  to  heare, 
And  then  in  the  countrie,  is  counted  good  cheare." 

TussERs  "FrvE  Hundred  Points  of  Husbandry." 

"  We  have  poulterer's  ware  for  your  sweet  bloods,  as  dove,  chicken, 
duck,  teal,  woodcock  and  so  forth." — Dekker's  "Honest  Whore." 

rpHE  horse,  as  we  were  all  taught  in  early  child- 
-L  hood,  is  a  noble  animal.  It  is  not  fowl.  But 
considerations  justify  the  historian  of  food  in  men- 
tioning its  flesh  in  a  chapter  on  poultry.  Cooks 
and  higglers  take  larger  views  of  some  subjects  than 
compilers  of  dictionaries.  Webster  defines  poultry 
as  "  domestic  fowls  which  are  propagated  and  fed 
for  the  table,  and  for  their  eggs  and  feathers.** 
Richardson,  more  severely  etymological,  describes 
poultry  as  "  the  young  of  birds  usually  called 
domestic  fowls."  Disregarding  the  dictionaries,  our 
cooks  have  long  ranked  rabbits  with  poultry ;  and 
there  are  dealers  in  good   cheer  who  insist   that 


72  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

butter  and  Neucbatel  cheese  are  poultry.  The 
elastic  term  is  even  made  to  cover  some  of  the 
hereditary  enemies  of  the  fowl-yard.  The  foxes, 
systematically  imported  from^  Antwerp  to  this 
country  for  purposes  of  sport,  are  cleared  through 
the  Harwich  custom-house  under  the  felicitous 
designation  of  poultry. 

Custom  enables  us  to  relish  any  diet,  however 
offensive  to  epicurean  principles.  Whilst  the 
Scotchman  devours  haggis  with  gust,  and  smacks 
his  lips  over  oatmeal  porridge,  the  Suffolk  farmer 
believes  that  his  abominable  dumpling,  greased  with 
dripping,  is  a  dainty.  There  is  no  aliment  so  repul- 
sive to  the  imagination  or  taste,  that  man  cannot  be 
trained  to  enjoy  it.  His  teeth  have  watered  over 
the  flesh  of  apes,  serpents,  and  vermin.  Nothing 
is  sweeter  to  a  gipsy's  tooth  than  a  fine  hedge-hog 
baked  in  clay.  There  are  times  when  even  civilized 
man  will  consent  to  stay  his  hunger  by  feeding  on 
his  own  species.  Indeed,  with  the  jocularity  which 
often  conveys  wholesome  truths,  Sydney  Smith  once 
spoke  of  "cold  curate"  as  an  exquisite  delicacy, 
under  certain  conditions.  Charles  the  Fifth's 
chronicler,  Don  Anthony  of  Guevara,  was  amazed 
and  slightly  disgusted  when  he  saw  German  epi- 
cures, in  the  highest  society,  eating  roast  sirloin  of 
horse,  cat  in  jelly,  lizards  served  in  frumenty,  and 
frogs  fried  in  batter.     A  century  later,  frogs,  as  we 


POWDERED   HORSE.  73 

have  seen,  were  regularly  cooked  for  the  politest 
tables  of  England,  France,  and  Italy.  Lizards, 
though  highly  acceptable  to  the  Romans,  do  not 
appear  to  have  been  ever  generally  eaten  in  this 
country.  Nor  have  our  gastronomers  distinguished 
themselves  as  eaters  of  the  cat.  The  noble  lord 
who  in  1791  bribed  a  London  savage  to  eat  a  live 
cat,  can  have  had  no  creditable  purpose  in  the  out- 
rage which  justified  Warner  in  reflecting  upon  him 
as  a  disgrace  of  his  order.  As  Selden  remarked  of 
John  de  Camey's  behaviour  in  selling  his  wife  to 
William  Paynel,  this  noble  lord's  conduct  must  be 
adjudged  a  "  singular  portent,"  that  throws  no  sure 
light  on  the  propensities  of  our  forefathers. 

The  horse,  however,  has  been  often  eaten  with 
thankfulness  by  Englishmen,  either  in  default  of 
more  usual  fare  or  from  gastronomic  curiosity ;  and 
in  so  doing  they  had  the  sanction  of  mediaeval  and 
ancient  gastronomers,  and  also  of  modern  peoples 
that  can  scarcely  be  stigmatized  as  barbarous.  In 
Elizabeth's  reign.  General  Doisell,  commanding  the 
French  army  in  Scotland,  set  powdered  horse  before 
the  English  captains  at  a  ceremonial  banquet. 
Doubtless  the  English  gentlemen  would  have  pre- 
ferred the  viand  "  fresh  ;"  but  salted  war-horse  was 
the  only  flesh  which  their  host  had  at  hand.  In  quite 
recent  times,  serious  attempts  have  been  made  in 
London   and  Paris  to  give  horse-flesh  a  permanent 


74  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

place  amongst  viands  for  the  table.  M.  de  Sainte- 
Hilaire's  "  Agapes  de  Cheval"  were  in  the  novelist's 
mind  when  he  wrote  for  his  "  Grand  Dictionnaire  de 
Cuisine,"  "  il  est  probable  que  le  noble  animal  que 
rhomme  associe  a  sa  gloire  militaire,  ne  lui  servira 
d 'aliment  que  dans  les  circonstances  exceptionelles 
de  blocus  et  de  famine."  Scarcely  was  the  ink  dry 
with  which  Dumas  penned  these  words,  when  the 
Prussians  were  marching  on  Paris  to  associate 
horse-flesh  with  military  disaster,  and  to  raise  the 
prime  joints  of  young  pony  to  fabulous  prices  in  the 
markets  of  the  beleaguered  capital. 

Whilst  the  savans  of  Paris  discussed  the  gastro- 
nomic merits  of  horse-flesh,  Mr.  Bicknell  was  urging 
the  London  poor  to  eat  the  same  meat.  Plying  his 
facile  pen  in  the  cause  of  hippophagy,  Mr.  Bicknell 
also  endeavoured  to  lure  his  numerous  friends  to 
adopt  his  opinions  by  entertaining  them  with  horse, 
cooked  in  various  ways.  Having  demonstrated  the 
culinary  virtues  of  the  noble  animal,  he  turned  his 
attention  to  the  patient  ass.  *'  If  you  have  nothing 
better  to  do,"  he  wrote  to  the  author  of  this  work, 
shortly  after  the  Langham  Hotel  Horse  Banquet, 
"  come  to  me  and  dine  ofi*  donkey."  The  dinner 
was  a  great  success.  The  company  of  "  fair  women 
and  brave  men"  had  enjoyed  the  soups,  fish,  and 
entrees,  and  some  of  them  were  screwing  up  their 
courage  to  take  a  slice  of  donkey  on  the  appearance 


f 


LOIN   OF    DONKEY.  75 

of  the  "joints,"  when  a  guest  observed  to  the  host, 
"  So  far  your  dinner  has  been  excellent,  though 
rather  common-place ;  but  when  will  Neddy  be 
served  ?" 

The  reply  staggered  the  questioner,  who  subse- 
quently confessed  that  he  had  partaken  heartily  of 
all  the  introductory  dishes,  with  the  intention  of 
avoiding  the  asinine  piece  de  resistance. 

"  My  dear  fellow,"  the  entertainer  answered, 
"  with  the  exception  of  the  salmon,  the  chief 
materials  of  every  dish  handed  to  you  were  taken 
from  a  tender  two-years-old  donkey,  killed  six  days 
since  by  my  butcher.  The  soups,  the  patties  which 
you  mistook  for  veal  patties,  the  cutlets  that  you 
imagined  to  be  lamb,  the  fillet  with  truffles,  were 
all  of  donkey." 

Finding  he  had  gone  so  far  in  a  perilous  investi- 
gation, the  guest  went  a  step  further,  and  took  a 
middle  cutlet  from  •*  loin  of  donkey.'*  It  combined 
the  texture  of  the  finest  mutton  with  the  flavour  of 
roast  pig. 

No  one  who  went  manfully  through  the  equine 
menu  of  the  Langham  Hotel  dinner  needs  to  be  told 
that  the  flesh  of  a  young  high-bred  horse  may  be 
highly  palatable  and  tender.  But  it  is  otherwise 
with  meat  taken  from  an  animal  which  has  endured 
the  labour  and  hard  usage  that  fall  to  the  lot  of  an 
ordinary  horse   in   its   toilsome  journey  from   the 


L 


76  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

breaker's  stable  to  the  knacker's  yard.  No  amount 
of  baiting,  beating,  and  hanging  can  impart  tender- 
ness to  the  muscles  of  the  hack  that  has  for  years 
spent  its  energies  in  the  service  of  an  exacting 
master.  All  the  resources  of  culinary  art  fail  to 
intenerate  the  animal  that,  after  figuring  proudly  in 
its  youth  before  a  lordly  chariot,  has  "  run  in  a 
bus,"  and  eventually  died  between  the  shafts  of  a 
street  cab.  The  flesh  of  such  a  toil-hardened  and 
sorely  abused  creature  is  rejected  by  the  sausage- 
makers  of  Houndsditch.  But  still  it  may  be  made 
subservient  to  the  needs  of  the  luxurious  table. 
Boiled,  minced,  and  strongly  seasoned  with  pepper, 
the  muscle  of  the  equine  carcase,  from  which  hounds 
would  turn  disdainfully,  becomes  a  stimulating  and 
nutritious  food  for  poultry.  The  breeders  and 
rearers  of  pullets  for  the  Paris  market  have  found 
that  a  diet,  comprising  a  large  proportion  of  highly- 
peppered  animal  food,  is  highly  conducive  to  size  and 
quick  growth  in  their  feathered  stock.  On  five  days 
of  the  week  they  feed  their  fattening  poultry  with  a 
paste  of  meal  and  vegetables,  and  on  two  days  give 
them  nothing  but  well-cooked  and  highly-peppered 
meat,  which  the  fowls  devour  ravenously.  The 
flesh,  so  minced,  boiled,  and  seasoned,  is  taken 
almost  entirely  from  the  carcases  of  worn-out 
horses.  Hence  it  is  no  fiction  to  say  that,  whilst 
enjoying   his    chicken    mayonnaise   at   the   "  Trois 


potjlteekr's  artifice's.  77 

Frferes,'*  the  Parisian  epicure  often  eats  what  a  few 
weeks  earlier  helped  to  draw  his  carriage  .over  the 
boulevards. 

Other  systems  of  fattening  fowls  are,  however, 
employed  by  the  French  poulterers.  At  Mans  it  is 
usual  to  "  bring  on  "  chickens  by  shutting  them  in 
the  dark,  and  crammiug  them  daily  with  a  paste  of 
barley-meal,  maize,  and  milk,  that  is  pushed  down 
their  throats  to  repletion.  In  some  yards  the  house 
for  fattening  birds  is  fitted  with  wooden  blinds,  that 
enable  the  poulterer  to  turn  the  daylight  ofi^  and  on 
at  pleasure.  On  the  exclusion  of  the  sun's  rays  the 
fowls  go  instantly  to  the  perch,  and  roost  till  the 
light  again  streams  through  the  jalousies,  when 
they  come  to  the  ground,  and  by  force  of  habit  fill 
their  crops  with  food,  under  the  impression  that 
another  day  has  begun.  By  this  means  the  birds 
are  induced  to  eat  six  times  as  much  as  they  would 
otherwise  devour  spontaneously  in  a  day.  In  former 
time  the  French  poulterers  varied  the  flavour  of  their 
fowls  by  dieting  them,  often  at  prodigious  cost,  with 
paste  qualified  with  musk,  aniseed,  and  other  aro- 
matic spices.  It  is  recorded  of  a  French  queen 
that  she  spent  1,500  francs  (£60)  in  imparting  a 
peculiarly  delicate  flavour  to  the  livers  of  three  geese. 
A  crowing  hen,  however,  never  received  any  such 
flattering  attentions  from  the  French  poulterer,  who 
no  sooner  heard  a  bird  of  this  abnormal  kind  give 


78  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

utterance  to  inappropriate  song  than  he  killed  her 
as  a  preposterous  usurper  of  masculine  rights.  An 
old  French  proverb  says, 

"  Poule  qui  chante,  prfitre  qui  danse, 
Femme  qui  piirle  latin, 
N*arriveiit  jamais  k  belle  fin." 

At  present,  the  task  of  imparting  false  flavours 
to  meat  is  left  to  the  cook,  and  fowl-rearers  are 
content  to  exert  their  ingenuity  to  bring  their  young 
birds  to  the  inaximum  of  size  and  fleshiness  in  the 
shortest  possible  time. 

In  the  sixteenth  century  the  English  epicure  ate 
habitually  the  crane,  the  stork,  the  heron-shaw,  the 
bittern,  the  gull,  and  the  bustard.  With  the  ex- 
ception of  the  bustard,  still  eaten  occasionally 
from  curiosity  rather  than  gastronomic  preference, 
these  birds  are  ^even  seen  on  our  tables.  Mr. 
Hayward  mentions  a  fine  bustard,  sent  by  Fisher  of 
Duke-street,  St.  James's,  to  Windsor  Castle,  at  a 
charge  of  £7  12s.  6d.  In  Henry  the  Eighth's  time 
the  price  of  a  fine  bustard  was  four  shillings — about 
£2  10s.  of  modern  money.  Speaking  of  Fisher, 
the  author  of  the  "  Art  of  Dining"  says,  "  He 
enjoyed  the  unlimited  confidence  of  Lord  Sefton, 
which  is  one  of  the  highest  compliments  that  can 
be  paid  to  any  man  directly  or  indirectly  connected 
with  gastronomy,  and  he  is,  as  we  believe,  the  sole 
purveyor  to  the  I'oyal  table.     He  has,  by  dint  of 


WEE    BIRDIES  !  79 

diligent  study,  acquired  the  art  of  fattening  ortolans, 
which  he  sells  at  a  tenth  of  the  price  they  used  to 
fetch."  Chefs  have  achieved  some  of  their  brightest 
triumphs  in  dressing  such  small  birds  as  the  ortolan 
and  the  becafico.  In  his  delight  with  twelve  beca- 
ficoes  served  in  egg-shells,  so  that  they  had  the 
external   appearance   of  real   eggs,    the   venerable 

Duke  of  C ,  commemorated  in   Soyer's  "  Pan- 

tropheon,"  turning  to  the  youthful  artiste  who  had 
prepared  the  exquisite  surprise,  exclaimed  with  fer- 
vour, "  You  are  inspired  by  Petronius ;  to  imitate 
in  such  a  manner  is  to  create.     Courage,  my  child, 
I  am  much  pleased  with  you." 

Small  birds  of  the  choicer  kinds  should  be  with- 
held from  gastronomic  novices  and  mere  simpletons, 
who  are  strangely  apt  to  mistake  them  for  sparrows 
and  common  field-birds,  and  to  devour  them  in 
ignorance  of  their  value,  if  not  in  total  insensibility 
to  their  excellence.  Out  of  sheer  modesty,  a  young 
deacon  made  his  last  dingier  at  Archbishop  Mark-  ^ 
ham's  table  on  a  dish  of  ruflFs  and  reeves,  which  he 
devoured  under  the  impression  that  such  small 
creatures  could  have  been  cooked  only  for  insigni- 
ficant persons.  "Na,  na,  my  leddy,  these  wee 
birdies  will  do  verra  weel,"  said  the  unsophisticated 
Scotchman  whom  Lady  Louisa  Lennox  vainly  tried 
to   lure   from  a  dish  of  wheatears  which   he  was 


80  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

"  putting  down"  his  throat,  merely  because  they 
would  "  do  verra  weel," 

To  return  to  large  birds.  Whilst  they  were  habitual 
consumers  of  the  stork  and  crane,  our  ancestors 
were  also  larger  eaters  of  the  peacock  and  the  swan, 
two  species  of  fowl  which  an  Englishman  may  never 
have  met  at  table,  though  he  has  fared  luxuriously 
for  half  a  century.  But  for  their  size  and  plumage, 
these  fowls  of  faulty  flesh  and  flavour  would  never 
have  attained  the  gastronomic  dignity  accorded  to 
them  from  the  days  of  Apicius  to  those  of  Giles  Rose. 
The  swan  is  still  eaten  at  civic  feasts — Conservative 
sentiment  enabling  aldermen  and  their  people  to 
relish  and  digest  anything.  There  is  literally  no- 
thing that  a  Common  Councilman  won't  swallow  at 
a  Corporation  dinner  if  it  is  commended  to  his 
stomach  on  the  score  of  "  good  Old  English  usage." 
The  cygnet,  however,  when  fattened  for  the  table 
by  a  well-known  Norwich  poulterer,  is  almost  un- 
objectionable, so  much  can  art  do  for  the  intenera- 
tion  and  dulcification  of  its  flesh.  The  young  swan 
is  sometimes  carved  at  the  high  tables  of  the  Cam- 
bridge colleges;  and  old-fashioned  East- Anglian 
rectors  may  even  yet  be  heard  to  extol  it  as  a 
"  dainty."  From  the  gastronomic  point  of  view 
Norwich  is  emphatically  the  City  of  Swans,  and  in 
pre-railway  times,  when  bishops  were  expected 
to   entertain   hospitably  the   clergy    summoned   to 


PEACOCK  FEASTS.  81 

their  palaces,  Bishop  Stanley  delighted  in  giving 
his  clerical  subordinates  the  diocesan  bird  under 
circumstances  most  favourable  for  its  reputation. 

The  honour  of  introducing  the  peacock  to  the 
table  is  universally  attributed  to  Q.  Hortensius, 
the  brilliant  advocate  and  voluptuary,  who  left  his 
heir  ten  thousand  casks  of  chian,  and  at  the  death 
of  his  favourite  murcena  shed  tears  that  remind  one 
of  Erskine's  fondness  for  his  two  leeches.  In  his 
foppishness  and  florid  preciseness  of  diction, 
Erskine's  forensic  style,  by  the  way,  resembled 
that  of  the  Roman  orator,  who  loving  peacock's 
flesh,  liked  also  the  pea-hen's  eggs  to  such  a  degree 
that,  when  they  were  scarce,  he  would  buy  them  at 
twenty  pence  a-piece,  a  price  that  to  the  Roman 
money-eaters  heightened  greatly  the  enjoyment  of 
feeding  on  them. 

Mention  has  been  already  made  of  the  mediaeval 
peacock  feasts;  but  a  few  particulars  should  be 
added  about  them.  Though  usually  served  whole, 
or  with  the  appearance  of  wholeness,  in  its  hackell, 
"  the  food  of  lovers  and  the  meat  of  lords"  (as  the 
bird  was  fancifully  styled)  sometimes  appeared  at 
table  covered  with  gold-leaf  instead  of  feathers. 
Stuffed  with  spices  and  served  on  a  lordly  charger 
(often  of  gold  and  silver)  it  held  in  its  beak  a  piece 
of  blazing  camphor,  and  was  generally  brought  to 
the  board  by  a  gentlewoman  of  high  degree.     At 

VOL.  II.  G 


82  A   BOOK   ABOUT  THE   TABLE. 

the  banquet  after  a  jousting  in  the  lists,  it  was  some- 
times borne   to   the  feast  by   the   Queen   of  the 
Tournament,  who   placed  it  before  the  knight   of 
brightest  valour  and  exploits.     On  such  occasions 
the  distinguished  knight,  before  carving  the  bird, 
renewed  over  its  gaudy  plumage  or  gilt  surface  his 
oaths    of   chivalric    devotion.      To    this   knightly 
practice  of  swearing  loyalty  over  the  hackel  (which 
in  Elizabethan  England  contained  a  minced  stu£&ng 
like  that  of  a  game-pie  more  often  than  the  mere 
flesh  of  the  bird),  Justice  Shallow  was  indebted  for 
lll^^^J'     his  oath  "By  cock  and  pie!"     In  the  thirteenth 
century  a  peacock  was  deemed  an  appropriate  prize 
for  the  victor  at  quintain. 

In  the  King's  Lynn  brass  the  peacocks  are  sitting 
in  dishes ;  but  the  mediaeval  cooks  knew  how  to 
set  the  roast,  and  dismembered  a  bird  on  his  legs, 
80  that  with  uplifted  head,  erect  comb,  and  spread 
tail,  it  had  all  the  appearances  of  animation.  ^^  Kill 
a  peacock,"  says  Baptista  Porta,  "  either  by  thrust- 
ing a  quill  into  his  brain  from  above,  or  else  cut 
his  throat  as  you  do  for  young  kids,  that  the  blood 
may  come  forth,  then  cut  his  skin  gently  from  his 
throat  to  his  tail,  and  being  cut,  pull  it  off  with*  his 
feathers  from  his  whole  bodv  to  his  head  :  cut  off 
that  with  the  skin  and  legs  and  keep  it.  Rost  the 
peacock  on  a  spit,  his  body  being  stuffed  with 
spices  and  sweet  herbs,  sticking  first  in  his  brest 


SADOB   FOB  A   PEACOCK.  83 

cloves,  and  wrapping  his  neck  in  a  white  linen 
cloth,  that  it  may  never  be  dry  ;  when  the  peacock 
is  rested  and  taken  from  the  spit,  put  him  into  his 
own  skin  again  and  that  he  may  appear  to  stand 
upon  his  feet  you  shall  thrust  small  iron  wires, 
made  on  purpose,  through  his  legs,  and  set  fast  on 
board  that  they  may  not  be  discerned,  and  through 
his  body  to  his  head  and  tail.  Some  put  camphire 
in  his  mouth,  and  when  he  is  set  on  the  table  they 
cast  in  fire.  Flatira  shows  that  the  same  may  be 
done  with  pheasants,  geese,  capons,  and  other 
birds,  and  we  observe  these  things  amongst  our 
guests.*'  By  the  same,  or  a  similar  process,  our 
game-pies  are  still  cased  with  the  plumage  of  the 
cock-pheasant. 

The  peacock,  served  in  the  old  Roman  fashion, 
was  often  seen  on  the  Elizabethan  table.  In  satiri- 
cal reference  to  the  wasteful  way  in  which  it  was 
cooked,  Massinger  in  the  "  City  Madam"  makes 
Holdfast  speak  of  "three  fat  wethers  bruised  to 
make  sauce  for  a  single  peacock,"  words  that  have 
been  taken  literally  by  several  incautious  writers. 
And  so  long  as  it  remained  in  fashion,  the  peacock 
was  served  at  other  festal  times  as  well  as  at 
Christmas,  to  which  season  Robert  Chambers 
especially  assigns  it  in  his  essay  on  Old  English 
Christmas  fare.  But  apart  from  qualities  that 
pleased      the     eye,      the     gaudy     bird    had     no 

G  2 


84  A   BOOK   ABOUT   THE   TABLE. 

virtues  to  justify  the  esteem  in  which  it  was  held 
by  gastronomers  for  seventeen  centuries.  Dr. 
Kitchener  observes  justly,  "  This  bird  is  one  of 
those  luxuries  which  were  often  sought,  because 
they  were  seldom  found ;  its  scarcity  and  external 
appearance  are  its  only  recommendations,  the  meat 
of  it  is  tasteless  and  tough."  But  the  reputation, 
which  had  for  sometime  been  waning,  expired  in 
the  middle  of  the  seventeenth  century,  when  pea- 
cock's flesh  ceased  to  be  extolled  as  a  delicacy  by 
nice  epicures,  though  the  "  cock  in  hackle"  was 
still  commended  by  chefs  as  a  superb  contrivance 
for  decorating  the  table.  The  bird  was  thus  used 
as  a  mere  ornament  in  the  earlier  half  of  the 
eighteenth  century.  One  can  scarcely  say  that 
at  present  it  is  never  eaten ;  but  having  gratified 
his  curiosity  by  tasting  it  once,  no  epicure 
desires  to  repeat  the  experiment. 

Brummell  once  ate  a  pea.  Alexandre  Dumas 
oncey  and  only  once,  ate  a  peacock  in  all  the 
many  years  of  his  gastronomic  experiences.  "  Je 
n'ai  mang^  du  paon  qu'une  fois  dans  ma  vie,"  he 
says,  "mais  comme  il  ^tait  tres-jeune  et  qu'il 
pouvait  correspondre  a  ce  qu'on  appelle  le  poulet 
de  grain,  il  me  parut  excellent."  The  praise  at 
the  end  of  this  sentence  is  notably  qualified  by  the 
statement  at  its  beginning.   Had  he  really  delighted 


REJECTED   ADDRESSES.  85 

in  the  bird,  which  in  full  plume  figured  at  an  open- 
air  banquet  to  which  he  was  invited  by  his  admirers 
in  a  small  country  town,  the  romantic  voluptuary 
would  not  have  failed  to  order  the  meat  on  subse- 
quent occasions.  By  the  way,  this  peacock  feast 
was  followed  quickly  by  an  annoyance.  On  his 
return  to  Paris  from  the  villaore-town  which  had 
received  him  so  enthusiastically,  Alexandre  wrote 
copiously  to  half-a-dozen  journals  about  himself 
and  the  bird  "  avec  son  cou  de  saphir."  Much  to 
his  disgust,  the  editors  of  the  newspapers  returned 
Alexandre's  accounts  of  an  affair  that  redounded 
equally  to  his  own  credit  and  the  bird's  honour. 
Everything,  however,  comes  to  the  hero  who  has 
enough  patience.  In  his  green  old  age,  the  author 
of  "  Monte  Cristo"  found  an  opportunity  for  using 
the  rejected  memoir  of  a  peacock-dinner,  which 
occupies  a  considerable  space  of  the  "Grand 
Dictionnaire  de  Cuisine."  Another  modern,  but 
less  recent,  peacock-feast  was  the  banquet  given 
towards  the  close  of  the  last  century  to  a  royal 
duke  by  the  Governor  of  Grenada,  West  Indies, 
when,  as  we  have  already  observed,  a  surprise-pie 
of  living  birds  was  opened  before  the  future  King 
of  England,  The  table  was  a  v  (pi)  table,  and 
the  royal  bird  with  spread  tail  was  set  in  the 
middle  of  the  cross-board,  immediately  in  front  of 
the  royal  sailor. 


86  A   BOOK  ABOUT  THE   TABJiE. 

As  the  peacock  fell,  the  turkey  rose  in  the  esteem 
of  epicures.  Indeed,  both  the  peacock  and  the 
swan  may  be  said  to  have  been  driven  from  the 
table  by  the  American  fowl,  which  had  no  sooner 
crossed  the  Atlantic,  than  it  was  fitly  honoured  and 
cherished  by  the  wealthiest  gourmands  of  every 
European  country. 

The  savans  of  the  last  century  had  a  warm  con- 
troversy respecting  the  history  and  original  source 
of  the  noble  fowl  which,  though  inferior  to  the  swan 
and  peacock  in  plumage,  equals  the  one  and  sur- 
passes the  other  in  magnitude,  and  excels  both  in 
texture  and  flavour  of  meat. 

On  the  one  side  were  those  who,  confounding  the 
Transatlantic  fowl  with  Guinea  fowl,  insisted  that  it 
was  known  to  the  Homans,  and  had  been  served  at 
the  sumptuous  boards  of  mediaaval  Europe.  For- 
getful or  ignorant  of  the  quickness  with  which 
tobacco  had  fascinated  the  peoples  of  the  Old  World, 
and  been  promptly  adopted  in  the  Eastern  lands  to 
which  it  travelled  by  way  of  Europe,  they  argued 
that,  had  the  first  turkeys  of  the  English  table  come 
from  America,  birds  of  their  species  would  not  have 
abounded  in  Italy,  Spain,  France,  and  this  country 
by  the  middle  of  the  seventeenth  century.  So  also, 
unmindful  or  unaware  that  maize,  long  known  in 
England  as  Turkey  corn,  was  first  obtained  from 
America,  they  urged  that  the  familiar  name  of  the 


HISTORY  OP  TURKEY.  87 

fowl  proclaimed  the  land  of  its  nativity.  Turkeys 
could  only  come  from  Turkey.  It  was  even  main- 
tained, on  the  authority  of  Barrington,  that  before 
they  were  so  called  in  this  country,  our  ancestors 
designated  them  Greek  fowls.  The  "  capons  of 
Grease/'  mentioned  by  Leland  as  served  at  a 
banquet  in  the  time  of  Edward  the  Fourth,  were 
•*  capons  of  Greece."  On  being  reminded  of  the 
abundance  of  wild  turkeys  in  America,  the  dis- 
putants on  the  side  of  error  replied  that  the  earliest 
West  Indian  adventurers  had  doubtless  carried 
turkeys  to  America,  even  as  they  were  known  to 
have  carried  horses  and  cattle  thither,  and  that  the 
birds  encountering  in  the  New  World  a  climate  and 
other  conditions  highly  favourable  to  them,  had 
propagated  with  amazing  rapidity,  and  acquired  a 
state  of  wildness. 

On  the  other  hand,  it  was  insisted  that,  had  the 
fowls  come  originally  from  Asia  and  Africa,  and 
been  known  to  the  mediaeval  poulterers  of  Southern 
Europe,  they  would  certainly  have  attracted  the 
particular  attention  of  writers  before  the  discovery 
of  the  New  World.  For  instance,  Peter  de 
Crescentis,  of  the  thirteenth  century,  would  not 
have  failed  to  describe  them,  as  well  as  pheasants 
and  partridges,  in  his  comprehensive  and  minute 
account  of  the  methods  of  rearing  domestic  fowls. 
But  not  one  of  all  the  pre-Columbian  writers  on 


88  A    BOOK   ABOUT   THE   TABLE. 

poultry  had  given  a  description  applicable  to  the 
turkey,  whose  English  name — ^given  to  the  American 
corn  no  less  than  to  the  American  fowls — merely 
indicated  that  they  had  been  chiefly  imported  to 
this  country  by  the  class  of  merchants  who,  out  of 
regard  to  the  more  ancient  and  important  part  of 
their  adventures,  were  commonly  designated  Turkey 
merchants  in  the  sixteenth  and  seventeenth  cen- 
turies. "  Capons  of  grease"  were  only  larded 
capons.  As  to  the  daring  suggestion  that  the 
original  turkeys  of  America  were  emigrants  from 
Europe,  it  was  observed  that,  whilst  turkeys  were 
found  wild  in  America,  it  was  the  only  part  of  the 
world  where  they  could  be  found  in  a  state  of  wild- 
ness.  It  was  incredible  that  after  ceasing  to  be 
wild  in  the  Eastern  lands  credited  with  their  origin, 
they  would  in  a  short  time  recover  their  primitive 
wildness,  and  multiply  so  rapidly  in  the  New 
Worid. 

It  is  worthy  of  remark  in  connection  with  this 
mistake  from,  and  dispute  ahouty  a  name,  that  the 
Turkish  designation  of  maize  caused  some  of  our 
Elizabethan  ancestors  to  imagine  that  Turkey-corn 
necessarily  came  from  Turkey.  Correcting  their 
error,  Gerarde  says  in  his  chapter  on  "  Turkie- 
corne"  : — "  Thes  kinds  of  graine  were  first  brought 
into  Spaine,  and  then  into  the  other  provinces  of 
Europe,  not  (as  some  suppose)  out  of  Asia  Minor, 


TURKEY   IN   EUROPE.  89 

which  is  the  Turk's  dominion,  but  out  of  America 
and  the  Islands  adjoining,  as  out  of  Florida,  and 
Virginia  and  Norembega,  where  they  used  to  sow  it 
or  set  it,  to  make  bread  of  it."  It  does  not  appear 
that  any  ignorant  disputant  ever  insisted  that 
Turkey  corn  was  first  brought  to  the  New  World  by 
the  European  adventurers  of  the  fifteenth  cen- 
tury. 

■  But  enough  of  the  dispute  which  closed,  as  all 
disputes  do  in  the  long  run,  on  the  side  of  truth. 
The  curious  may  find  a  concise  statement  of  con- 
flicting arguments  in  Beckmann's  **  History  of 
Inventions ;"  and  also  a  brief  summary  of  the  facts, 
which  demonstrate  the  bird's  Transatlantic  origin, 
in  Brillat-Savarin's  "  Physiologie  du  GoAt."  At 
present  it  is  universally  allowed  that  we  are  not 
more  certainly  indebted  to  China  for  tea,  than  to 
the  Western  hemisphere  for  tobacco,  turtle,  and 
turkey.  Grimod  de  la  Reyniere  dismissed  the  dis- 
cussion by  saying  playfully,  '*  What  matters  it 
whence  the  Indian  pullet  came  so  long  as  it  is 
tender?" 

The  American  fowl  was  naturalized  in  the  more 
civilized  countries  of  Europe  at  nearly  the  same 
time.  The  orders  for  the  government  of  Henry  the 
Eighth's  household  do  not  mention  the  bird,  but  it 
came  to  England  before  that  monarch  put  aside  his 
first  wife  and  broke  with  the  papacy.     In  Edward 


90  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

the  Sixth's  time  turkeys  ceased  to  be  novelties  at 
the  English  table,  though  they  were  served  only  at 
grand  feasts.  Under  Philip  and  Mary  "Turky 
chicks  4,  rated  at  iiijs.  a  piece"  {i.e.  about  forty 
shillings  of  our  current  money) >  were  served  at  the 
banquet  which  the  serjeants-at-law  set  before  the 
Lords  of  the  Privy  Council.  That  turkey  had 
become  comparatively  common  fare  at  luxurious 
boards,  by  the  middle  of  Elizabeth's  reign,  may  be 
inferred  from  Tusser's  allusion  to  the  fowl  in  the 
"  Five  Hundred  Points  of  Husbandry." 

Whilst  the  new  fowl  received  in  this  country  a 
name  which  caused  our  ancestors  to  think  it  a 
native  of  the  East,  it  acquired  in  France  a  designa- 
tion that  resulted  in  the  same  misconception. 
Known  as  Turkey  in  London,  it  was  called  "  poulet 
d'lnde"  at  Paris,  where,  at  a  later  date,  it  was  also 
familiarly  called  "le  J^suite,"  in  reference  to  the 
common  belief  that  the  Jesuits  first  brought  poulets 
d'Inde  into  France.  The  evidence  is  by  no  means 
conclusive  that  the  Jesuits  performed  this  service  to 
European  gastronomy ;  but  it  is  certain  that,  at  an 
early  date  of  the  fowl's  European  history,  they  were 
greatly  successful  turkey-farmers  in  the  neighbour- 
hood of  Bourges.  Anyhow,  it  is  to  the  honour  of  the 
holy  brothers  that  their  name  is  so  agreeably  asso- 
ciated with  the  bird  which  Europe  quickly  learnt  to 
prefer  to  the  swan  and  peacock.     Be  it  also  borne  in 


AN  ANGRY   JESUIT.  91 

mind  that  these  reverend  patrons  of  the  turkey  were 
long  honoured  in  Protestant  England  as  the  original 
growers  of  the  best  wine  for  weak  stomachs,  and  as 
the  discoverers  of  the  best  medicine  for  restoring 
an  enfeebled  body,  and  enabling  it  to  relish  good 
cheer.  Peruvian  bark,  called  cinchona  from  the 
Countess  del  Cinchon,  from  which  quinine  is  ob- 
tained, was  long  called  "Jesuits'  bark"  by  our 
physicians,  in  days  when  port  wine  was  almost  as 
generally  called  Jesuits'  port,  the  Methuen  grape 
being  grown  chiefly  on  estates  belonging  to  the 
Holy  Order. 

By  the  way,  whilst  softening  men's  hearts  to  a 
sacred  brotherhood  that  has  upon  the  whole  been 
judged  with  more  anger  than  charity,  the  turkey  is 
said  to  have  inspired  Nicholas  Boileau  with  the 
animosity  which  he  seized  every  occasion  to  exhibit 
against  the  Jesuits.  The  story  goes  that  in  his 
childhood  Boileau  was  running  across  a  court-yard, 
when  he  fell  upon  the  stones  and  exhibited  a  sensi- 
tive part  of  his  person  to  "a  Jesuit"  (fowl),  that 
immediately  flew  at  the  unfortunate  boy  and  with 
its  beak  inflicted  serious  injury  upon  him.  The 
sufferer's  cries  brought  timely  help ;  but  he  was  not 
rescued  from  the  furious  bird  until  he  had  received 
wounds  that  marked  him  for  life.  From  that  time 
he  could  never  hear  "  a  Jesuit"  mentioned  without 
exhibiting  alarm  and   anger;  and   on   growing  to 


92  A    BOOK   ABOUT   THE   TABLE. 

raanhood,  in  resentment  for  the  wrong  done  him  by 
their  bird,  he  became  the  fierce  and  implacable 
enemy  of  the  holy  brothers. 

The  poet  would  have  expressed  his  hatred  of  the 
bird  more  fitly  and  profitably  had  he,  instead  of 
turning  upon  its  importers  with  pen  and  tongue, 
used  his  teeth  upon  every  poulet  d'Inde  put  at  his 
mercy,  and  endeavoured  to  eat  its  whole  species  out 
of  existence ;  but  he  could  never  regard  a  roast  or 
boiled  turkey  with  equanimity.  Even  to  think  of 
one  roused  his  wrath.  It  was  otherwise  with  the 
invalid  mentioned  in  the  Almanach  des  Gourmands, 
Avho  made  a  trivial  addition  to  the  medical  order  for 
his  dinner.  In  accordance  with  his  usual  practice 
towards  gluttonous  convalescents,  the  physician  had 
ordered  in  wnting  for  this  patient's  dinner  "  una 
cuisse  de  poulet."  Scarcely  had  the  physician 
taken  his  departure  when  the  invalid  caught  up  the 
prescription  and,  cleverly  imitating  the  physician's 
hand-writing,  added  "  d'Inde"  after  "  poulet." 
The  draft,  thus  amended,  being  duly  honoured  by 
his  cook,  this  taraperer  with  an  ofiicial  document 
had  his  reward  in  a  satisfying  meal  and  subsequent 
laughter  at  his  medical  adviser. 

The  dindon  has  been  worshipped  in  France 
even  more  enthusiastically  than  in  England.  It 
figured  as  the  prime  delicacy,  and  also  as  the  piece 
de  resistance  in  the  exemplary  dinner  which  Brillat- 


NOT  ENOUGH   FOR  TWO.  93 

Savarin  commemorates  as  a  specimen  of  good  cheer 
in  the  time  of  Louis  the  Fifteenth.  '*  My  only- 
objection  to  a  fine  dindon,^*  a  French  gourmand,  with 
powers  inferior  to  his  ambition,  remarked  gravely, 
"  is  that  when  it  is  cooked  I  shall  not  be  quite  able 
to  eat  it  all  at  my  solitary,  dinner.**  "Why  not 
invite  a  friend  to  join  yon  ?"  the  hearer  suggested. 
"  Ah,  my  friend,"  was  the  reply,  "  in  that  case  it 
would  be  necessary  to  order  a  second  poulet  d'hide^ 
The  old  English  saying  which  proclaims  the  goose 
a  foolish  bird  for  being  "too  much  for  one,  and 
not  enough  for  two,"  is  commonly  applied  in  France 
to  the  poulet  delude. 

Several  French  gourmands,  however,  could  be 
named  who,  like  the  French  magistrate  celebrated 
in  a  previous  Chapter,  regarded  the  whole  of  a  large 
turkey  stuffed  with  trufl9.es  as  no  excessive  meal 
for  one  person.  In  the  spring  of  his  youthful 
vigour,  Mass^na's  favourite  aide-de-camp,  General 
Prosper  Sibuet,  could  eat  a  fine  dindon  with  un- 
qualified enjoyment.  Prosper  Sibuet  was  still  a 
sub-lieutenant  in  his  eighteenth  year  when  he  en- 
tered a  restaurant  in  his  native  town  of  Belley — 
a  town  of  Southern  France,  famous  in  gastro- 
nomic annals  as  the  birth-place  of  Brill  at- Savarin — 
just  in  time  to  see  a  magnificent  turkey  taken  from 
the  spit.  **  By  Jove  1"  exclaimed  the  young 
soldier,  "  I  will  not  leave  this  table  till  I  have  eaten 


94f  A   BOOK   ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

the  whole  of  that  bird  myself."  "  Sir,"  observed  a 
wealthy  farmer  who  was  sitting  near,  and  heard  the 
TOW  with  dissatisfaction,  as  he  had  resolved  to  taste 
the  noble  creature,  "  if  you  can  devour  all  that  is 
eatable  of  that  prodigious  fowl  I  will  pay  for  it.** 
Prosper  went  to  work  without  delay.  Having 
taken  down  a  wing  in  two  mouthfuls,  he  demolished 
the  neck,  clearing  every  scrap  of  meat  from  the 
bones.  After  a  glass  of  wine,  he  next  disposed  of  a 
leg.  It  was  not  till  the  second  wing  and  second 
leg  had  passed  down  the  throat  of  the  boyish  sub- 
lieutenant that  the  farmer,  no  longer  doubting 
Prosper's  ability  to  accomplish  his  enterprise,  en- 
treated politely,  "  Sir,  since  it  is  clear  that  I  must 
pay  for  the  fowl,  in  your  courtesy  permit  me  to  taste 
a  morsel."  So  modest  a  petition,  made  in  a  con- 
ciliatory tone,  conquered  the  conqueror :  "  By  all 
means.  Sir,"  he  answered,  "don't  let  me  disap- 
point your  appetite.  Take  what  remains  of  the 
bird.  As  for  me,  I  will  complete  my  little  repast 
with  the  other  viands."  Till  the  day  when  he  fell 
gallantly  at  the  passage  of  the  Bober,  General  Sibuet 
delighted  to  recall  this  incident  of  his  youth,  so 
creditable  to  his  physical  vigour  and  his  politeness. 
A  good  story  is  told  of  Brillat-Savarin's  con- 
scientious desire  to  render  culinary  justice  to  a 
superb  wild  turkey  which  he  had  the  good  fortune 
to  kill   during  his   exile  in  the  United  States  of 


AN  ADEQUATE  APOLOGY.  95 

America.  He  was  in  the  company  of  the  diplomatist 
and  statesman,  to  whom  the  Americans  of  the  great 
republic  are  indebted  even  more  than  to  Washington 
for  their  constitutional  privileges,  when  Jefferson 
saw  in  his  countenance  an  air  that  betokened  absence 
of  mind.  '*  Sir,"  said  Jefferson,  who  had  been 
vainly  exerting  his  wit  and  marvellous  powers  of 
conversation  to  fascinate  his  French  visitor,  "  my 
talk  is  inopportune.  You  are  thinking."  "  A 
thousand  pardons,"  returned  the  Frenchman,  cover- 
ing his  offence  with  a  full  apology  and  a  naive  con- 
fession, "  a  thousand  pardons  for  my  inattention. 
I  was  thinkino:  how  I  should  dress  mv  wild 
turkey." 

Apropos  of  the  French  name  for  the  American 
fowl,  the  reader  should  be  told  that  before  they 
agreed  to  style  it  **  turkey,"  our  ancestors  of  the 
sixteenth  century  often  called  it  "  the  bird  of  Inde," 
or  "the  Indish  pea-cock/'  The  latter  terra  is 
richly  significant,  for  whilst  pointing  to  the  West 
Indian  origin  of  the  fowl,  it  testifies  that  the  bird  on 
its  first  introduction  to  this  country  was  regarded 
as  the  rival  of  the  peacock,  which  in  course  of  time 
it  dethroned  and  superseded.  Harrison  speaks  of  a 
certain  treatment  of  "  turkeys  or  Indian  peacocks" 
as  "  a  new  devise." 

The  time  has  come  to  speak  of  the  goose.  But  a 
paragraph  at  the  end  of  a  long  Chapter  would  be 


96  A  i»:k  aeout  the  taele. 

no  sufficient  notice  of  a  bird  so  famons  in  historr. 
Xo  fowl  bas  done  more  than  the  goose  for  human 
enjoyment,  or  suffered  more  from  human  ingenuity 
and  mallcroitv.  At  least  for  once  it  shall  be  men- 
tioned  with  due  respect  and  gratitude  in  a  special 
Chapter. 


97 


I 


CHAPTER  V. 

GOOSE. 

''Goosie,  goosie,  gander. 
Where  do  you  wander  P 
Up-stairs  and  down-stairs, 
And  in  my  lady's  chamber." 

Old  Nubsebt  Bhtmes. 

"  Yea,  poll  thyself  and  prevent  others,  and  give  the  bailiff  or  like 
officer,  now  a  capon,  now  a  pig,  now  a  goo$e,  and  so  to  thy  land- 
lord likewise,  or  if  thoa  have  a  great  farm,  now  a  lamb,  now  a  calf." 
— Ttndalb's  "  Exposition." 

"  So  stabble  geese,  at  Michaelmas,  are  seen 
Upon  the  spit,  next  May  produces  green." 

^King's  "Akt  of  Cookery." 

**  The  Scottish  barnacle,  if  I  might  choose, 
That  of  a  worme  doth  wake  a  winged  goose." 

Bishop  Hall's  "Satires." 

**  Like  your  Scotch  barnacle,  now  a  block; 
Instantly  a  worm,  and  presently  a  great  goose." 

Maeston's  "Malcontent." 

TTTHEN  a  nurse  amuses  the  babe  in  her  arms  by 
*  ^  crying  "  Peep-Boh  1"  she  utters  the  name  of 
a  Gothic  general,  once  terrible  to  women  and 
warriors.  Speaking  of  the  dread  captain  who 
commanded  the  hosts  of  the  Persian  Chosroes, 
Gibbon  says,  "The  name  of  Narses  was  the  for- 
midable sound  with  which  mothers  w:ere  accustomed 
to  terrify  their  infants."     In  like  manner,  the  name 


98  A   BOOK   ABOUT  THE   TABLE. 

of  Odin^s  warlike  son,  after  serving  as  a  rallying  cry 
to  armies,  whose  foes  it  filled  with  fear,  became  a 
menace  of  whipping  to  fractious  children.  When  it 
had  gradually  lost  this  alarming  significance,  "  Boh  " 
was  only  a  jest  of  nurses,  and  a  signal  of  mirth  to 
infants.  The  sound  might  startle  babes  into  laugh- 
ing and  crowing,  but  only  provoked  older  nurslings 
to  retort  disdainfully,  **  Cry  Boh  to  a  goose  1"  The 
child  who  could  speak  was  as  foolish  as  a  goose  if 
"  Boh  '*  could  alarm  him.  So  long  a  time  has 
passed  since  the  goose  became  a  by-word  for 
foolishness  to  the  veriest  simpletons  of  human 
kind. 

In  his  " Dyets  Dry  Dinner"  Buttes  calls  a  goose 
"  the  emblem  of  meere  modestie,"  i.e.,  of  modesty 
without  intelligence  and  grace.  Scaliger  (Julius 
CaBsar)  styled  it  "  the  fairest  emblem  of  prudence," 
a  description  directly  discordant  with  its  proverbial 
reputation  of  unqualified  silliness.  By  the  way,  the 
goose  is  guilty  of  few  acts  that  justify  this  unenvi- 
able fame.  The  female  bird  lays  her  eggs  with 
propriety,  hatches  them  with  decorum,  and  dis- 
charges her  parental  duties  with  sufficient  fidehty. 
The  male  bird  does  all  that  society  requires  of  him. 
If  he  intrudes  himself  into  chambers  where  he  is  no 
welcome  guest,  he  in  this  respect  only  follows  the 
example  of  ambitious  men.  The  same  defence  may 
be  ofiered  for  other  reprehensible  habits  of  geese, 


THE   GOOSE-QniLL.  99 

who  are  notably  human  in  their  failings.  They  are 
no  worse  than  the  wisest  of  animals  in  liking  to 
have  the  last  word  in  a  dispute ;  and  if  they  are 
quick  to  pursue  a  flying  enemy,  and  ever  ready  to 
retreat  from  the  invader  with  a  bold  face,  the  same 
may  be  said  of  human  rabble.  To  their  credit  also, 
much  might  be  said  of  their  services  to  civilization 
and  learning.  By  timely  cackling  they  saved  the 
Roman  capital  from  barbarian  hordes  :  and  from 
ancient  times  to  the  bright  mid-day  of  modern 
science  they  were  chiefly  instrumental  in  trans- 
mitting the  fruits  of  human  intelligence.  The 
wisdom  of  silent  centuries  has  come  to  us  through 
the  goose-quill ;  and  even  in  these  iron  days  the 
steel  pen  has  not  altogether  superseded  the  quill. 
Chateaubriand  never  used  a  steel-pen ;  Victor  Hugo 
is  only  one  of  the  many  living  scribes  who  refuse  to 
adopt  the  invention  of  yesterday.  In  official  circles, 
the  pen  of  steel  is  regarded  with  aversion  and  is 
seldom  seen.  .Unable  to  force  the  new  contrivance 
on  reluctant  clerks,  financial  reform  can  only  insist 
that  the  quills  of  our  public  offices  shall  be  economi- 
cally cut  and' re-cut  to  their  stumps  by  a  salaried 
pen-mender.  England  is  still  governed  by  the 
goose-quill. 

From  its  appearance  rather  than  its  acts,  the 
goose  derives  its  character  for  foolishness.  In  the 
water  less  stately  and  imposing  than  the  swan,  it  is 

H  2 


100  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

on  land  the  awkwardest  and  ungainliest  of  feathered 
creatures.  It  was  said  that  no  one  could  be  so  wise 
as  Lord  Thurlow  looked.  No  bird  can  be  so  foolish 
as  the  goose  appears  when  waddling  up  a  turnpike 
road,  or  seen  with  outstretched  neck  and  open  beak 
on  a  village-green.  But  there  is  something  human 
in  its  graceless  aspect  and  gabbling  eloquence.  One 
of  our  wisest  men,  Lord  Stowell,  resembled  in  a 
remarkable  degree  the  waddling,  cackling  goose. 
Man  would  have  been  less  disdainful  of  the  bird  had 
he  not  seen  certain  aspects  of  himself  in  its  most 
ludicrous  characteristics. 

The  fowl,  so  ungenerously  ridiculed  by  the  foolish 
for  its  personal  defects,  has  however  found  friends 
amongst  the  learned.  Virgil,  Scaliger,  and  De 
Courchamps  are  of  the  number  of  these  nobler 
spirits.  The  poet  rendered  due  homage  to  the 
birds  who  saved  Rome,  by  placing  on  his  hero's 
shield  a  silver  goose  with  golden  wings.  With  a 
discretion  inferior  to  his  courage,  the  scholar  of  the 
seventeenth  century  repelled  the  slanderers  of  the 
goose  with  piquant  stories  of  its  sagacity.  The 
vulgar  might  laugh,  because  the  fowl  never  sailed 
under  the  loftiest  bridge  without  lowering  its  head 
lest  it  should  hit  the  arch  ;  but  Scaliger  maintained 
that  this  needless  caution,  instead  of  showing  the 
goose's  foolishness,  only  demonstrated  its  excessive 
jprudence.     But  the  learned  man's  grandest  illustra- 


i 


THE    STRASBOURG    GEESE.     '  101 

tion  of  the  wisdom  of  geese,  relates  to  their  pre- 
cautions against  the  sharp  ears  of  the  eagles  of 
Mount  Taurus.  On  preparing  to  cross  the  moun- 
tain, each  goose  of  a  flock  takes  in  its  bill  a  large 
stone,  and  having  thus  "gagged  itself,*'  as  the 
negroes  were  recently  gagged  in  Jamaica,  it  goas 
on  its  silent  way,  unable  to  produce  the  gabble 
that  would  attract  the  enemy.  As  for  the  French 
biographer  and  gourmet^  who  flourished  in  the 
earlier  decades  of  the  present  century,  indignant  at 
the  cruelties  perpetrated  on  defenceless  geese  by 
the  poulterers  of  Strasbourg,  he  drew  up  in  their 
names  the  petition  which  implored  the  peers  of 
France  to  prohibit  the  continuance  of  such  atrocities. 
^'  Faisant  taire  les  appetances  de  son  estomac  sous 
les  oris  de  sa  conscience,"  the  humane  autlior  pro- 
duces an  appeal  equally  powerful  and  ar^serable. 
After  reciting  the  processes  by  which  the  petitioners 
were  reduced  to  a  state  of  disease,  that  was  a  burles- 
que of  the  malady  to  which  their  livers  were  naturally 
liable,  this  sublime  paper  observes, — "  Alas  I  what 
have  we  wretched  birds  done  that  they  should  thus 
blind  us,  stuff*  us,  torture  us  ?  What  would  you  say, 
noble  peers,  if  any  one  should  devour  you,  should 
cut  the  wings  with  which  you  fly  so  high,  should 
fix  you  to  planks,  should  nail  you  to  them  by  your 
feet,   and   lastly   should    pluck  out  your   eyes,  in 


102  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

order    to   prey  on  your  livers  like  Prometheus^s 
vulture?" 

It  is  on  record  that  after  reading  this  agonizing 
prayer  from  the  Strasbourg  goose,  a  French  peer, 
equally  celebrated  for  gastronomic  achievement  and 
benevolent  enterprise,  burst  into  tears,  declaring 
that  he  would  never  again  eat  the  liver  of  a  tor- 
tured goose.  "  And  why  should  I  ?"  he  added, 
when  he  had  overcome  the  sharpest  emotions  of 
compassion,  "  why  should  I,  since  the  livers  of 
two  Toulouse  ducks,  treated  in  the  same  way,  are 
equal  in  size  and  flavour  to  the  largest  liver  of  the 
Strasbourg  goose  ?"  A  similar  story  is  told  of  the 
English  philanthropist,  who  distinguished  himself 
in  the  outcry  against  the  barbarities  practised  on 
"climbing  boys'*  by  the  master-chimneysweeps. 
Having  ascertained  that  a  chimney  could  be  well 
swept  by  dragging  a  live  goose  up  it,  the  reformer 
wished  that  the  law  should  make  it  penal  for  a 
sweep  to  use  any  other  kind  of  brush  to  the  interior 
of  a  chimney.  The  discovery  was  original,  and 
the  proposal  worthy  of  its  maker;  but  it  was 
objected  that  method  involved  some  slight  cruelty 
to  the  goose.  "  True,  poor  creature  T'  observed 
the  humane  inventor,  **  I  forgot  that.  But  my 
plan  is  excellent ;  and  no  goose  is  necessary  for  its 
execution.     Two  ducks  would  do  quite  as  well." 

In  justice  to  the  people  of  Strasbourg,  it  should  be 


8TDBBLU    GEESE.  103 

remembered  they  were  not  the  first  to  discover  the 
superior  delicacy  of  the  diseased  liver  of  the  goose, 
and  to  devise  means  for  bringing  the  organ  to  the 
greatest  magnitude  and  highest  aggravation  of 
disease.  The  Strasbourg  petitioners  only  endured 
such  outrages  as  were,  for  the  same  end,  imposed  on 
geese  by  the  poulterers  of  ancient  Rome,  The 
modern  way  of  stuffing  a  goose  and  duck  with  a 
farce-meat  of  chopt  onion  and  hot  spices  came  also 
from  the  same  ancient  school. 

Hatched  in  the  Spring,  fed  in  the  yard  during 
Summer,  and  at  the  close  of  harvest  sent  daily 
into  the  stubbles  to  fill  their  crops  with  corn, 
young  geese  come  to  their  perfection  of  size  and 
flavour  just  in  time  for  the  Michaelmas  table.  They 
are,  in  the  best  sense,  seasonable  at  the  festal  time, 
when  in  the  ordinary  course  of  things  they  are, 
whilst  still  young  and  tender,  abundant  and  fleshy. 
And  long  before  Queen  Elizabeth  dined  off  roast 
goose  and  Burgundy,  under  Sir  Neville  Humfre- 
ville's  roof,  on  her  way  to  Tilbury  Fort,  roast 
goose  was  the  seasonable  dish  at  every  good  dinner 
served  in  England  on  Michaelmas  day.  Loving 
good  cheer  and  eating  all  good  things  as  soon  as 
they  were  fairly  plentiful  and  cheap,  the  English 
had  been  Michaelmas-goose-eaters  for  centuries  ere 
the  Spanish  Armada  was  routed  and  broken  to 
flotsam   on   their   coasts.     A  fat  goose   was    the 


104  A   BOOK   ABOUT   THE   TABLE. 

ordinary  present  every  petty  tenant  brought  his 
landlord  on  Michaelmas  day  in  the  old  feudal  time, 
when  every  person,    with  dependents  from  whom 
he   looked   at  festal    seasons   for    customary^    and 
therefore   scarcely  spontaneous,  presents,  received 
their   contributions   to   his    larder   as   matters    of 
course.     So  far  back  as  the  tenth  year  of  Edward 
the  Fourth,  John  de  la  Haye,  in  acknowledgment 
of  his  tenure  of  certain  lands,  was  bound  to  render 
to  William  Barnaby,  Lord  of  Lastres,  Co.  Hereford, 
a  fat  goose  for  the  said  lord's  dinner  on  the  feast 
of  St.  Michael  the  Archangel.     This  fact  would  of 
itself  discredit  the  absurd  story  that  our  practice  of 
eating  goose  on  Michaelmas  day  had  its  origin  iu 
the  dinner    which   Elizabeth  ate  at   Sir  Neville's 
table,    shortly   before    she  received    the   welcome 
news  of  the  Armada's  destruction.     A  goose  was 
one   of  the   customary   gifts   which    Tyndale,    the 
reformer,    enjoined  poor  farmers  to  pay  with  ap- 
parent willingness  to  their  landlords ;  and  at  least 
eighteen  years  before  the  Armada  sailed  to  disaster, 
George  Gascoigne  wrote, 

"  And  when  the  tenauntes  come  to  paie  their  quarter's  rent. 
They  bring  some  Ibwle  at  Midsummer,  a  dish  of  fish  in  Lent, 
At  Christmasse  a  capon,  at  Michaelmas  a  goose, 
And  somewhat  else  at  New  Yere's  tide,  for  fear  their  lease  flie 
loose." 

That  Elizabeth  ate  goose  on  the  memorable  day 


THE    MICHAELMAS    GOOSE.  105 

of  St.  Micbael  is  more  than  probable.  Indeed,  it 
is  highly  improbable  that  the  fowl  was  absent  from 
the  dinner  set  before  her.  But  instead  of  establish- 
ing a  custom  by  the  meal,  she  merely  observed 
the  ancient  usage,  which  gave  us  the  saying,  **  If 
you  eat  goose  on  Michaelmas  day  you  will  never 
want  money  all  the  year  round."  In  reference  to 
this  adage,  a  writer  in  the  British  Apollo  for  1709, 
says, 

« 

Q.     "Yet  my  wife  would  persuade  (as  I  am  a  sinner) 
To  have  a  fat  goose  on  St.  Michael  for  dinner, 
And  then  all  the  year  round,  I  pray  you  would  mind  it, 
I  shall  not  want  money — oh  !  grant  I  may  find  it ! 
Kow  several  there  are  that  believe  this  is  true, 
Yet  the  reason  of  this  is  desired  from  you. 

A.     "  We  think  you're  so  far  from  the  having  of  more. 

That  the  price  of  the  goose  you  have  less  than  before  : 
The  custom  came  up  from  the  tenants  presenting 
Their  landlords  with  geese,  to  incline  their  relenting 
On  following  payments." 

Gascoigne's  lines  show  how  our  ancestors  came 
to  think  it  good  policy  to  be  no  savers  of  goose  at 
Michaelmas  time.  Whilst  money  came  all  the 
year  round  to  tenants  and  others,  who  by  paying 
the  goose-tax  readily  kept  in  the  favour  of  their 
betters,  poverty  was  seen  to  befall  farmers  who 
lost  their  leases,  and  dependents  who  lost  their 
patrons  by  omitting  to  render  the  customary  gift. 
It  followed  from  this  state  of  things  that  the  man 


106  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE, 

who  would  prosper,  should  think  little  of  the  cost 
of  geese  at  Michaelmas  time.  He  should  give 
them  freely  at  that  season  to  the  companions  of  his 
table,  as  well  as  to  higher  folk.  Rather  than 
grudge  the  choice  viand,  it  was  well  for  him  to  eat 
it  prodigally. 

Whilst  our  feudal  ancestors  ate  stubble  geese  at 
Michaelmas  feasts,  they  spoke  much  of  a  kind  of 
geese  called  barnacle  geese,  which  were  said  to  be 
palatable  food.  John  Gerarde,  the  learned*  herba- 
list, described  this  marvellous  fowl  minutely  in  the 
first  section  (1597)  of  his  famous  work  on  plants. 
Something  bigger  than  the  mallard,  and  smaller 
than  the  common  goose,  it  had  *^  black  legs,  and 
bill,  and  beak,  and  feathers  blacke  and  white,  spotted 
in  such  a  manner  as  is  our  magpie,  called  in  some 
places  a  pie-annet."  The  Pile  of  Flounders,  a  small 
island  on  the  Lancashire  coast,  abounded  with  geeso 
of  this  description,  which  were  commonly  sold  ia 
the  Lancashire  markets  for  threepence  a  piece. 
They  were  also  plentiful  in  the  Orchades,  the  Isle 
of  Man,  and  many  points  of  the  Irish  coasts.  They 
might  also  be  found  occasionally,  in  an  imperfect 
state,  on  the  banks  of  the  Thames ;  but  as  sea-water 
was  necessary  for  their  perfect  development,  the 
specimens  of  the  barnacle  goose  (or  duck)  taken  in 
the  Thames  may  be  described  as  embryonic.  Whilst 
divines  debated  whether  these  birds  partook  so  far 


THE   DOOTOKS   DIFFEB.  107 

of  the  nature  of  fish  that  they  might  be  eaten  on 
fast-days,  naturalists  (of  the  highest  repute  for 
sagacity  in  their  time)  questioned  whether  the  per- 
plexing creatures  should  be  rated  as  fish,  fowl,  or 
vegetable.  It  could  not  be  denied  that  they  had  a 
fishy  origin,  for  they  had  been  seen  to  proceed  from 
such  barnacles  as  are  often  found  adhering  to  the 
bottoms  of  ships.  The  barnacle  goose  was  the 
barnacle  in  its  highest  development.  But  the  crea- 
ture with  webbed  feet,  feathers,  and  close  resem- 
blance to  a  water-duck  could  scarcely  be  ranked 
with  salmon  and  oysters.  Lastly,  was  it  not  rather 
to  be  regarded  as  the  fruit  of  a  tree  ? 

In  the  Orcades,  Lancashire,  Man,  and  Ireland 
trees  were  often  seen  with  branches  bending  beneath 
the  weight  of  barnacles,  from  whose  gaping  shells 
came  forth  fowls  that,  dropping  into  the  sea,  at- 
tained their  full  size  in  the  water.  **  When  it  is 
perfectly  formed,"  Gerarde  says  of  the  barnacle, 
"  the  shell  gapeth  open,  and  the  first  thing  that  ap- 
peareth  is  the  foresaid  lace  or  string ;  next  come 
the  legs  of  the  bird  hanging  out,  and  as  it  groweth 
greater  it  openeth  by  degrees,  till  at  length  it  is  all 
come  forth,  and  hangeth  only  by  the  bill;  in  short 
space  after  it  cometh  to  full  maturitie,  and  falleth 
into  the  sea,  where  it  gathereth  feathers,  and 
groweth  to  maturitie.'*  Under  these  circumstances, 
was  not  the  fish-goose  so  closely  allied  to  the  vege- 


108  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

table  kingdom  (which  had  at  least  provided  it  with 
£i  foster-mother)  that  it  should  be  named  amoDgst 
the  fruits  of  plants  ?'*     Gerarde  answered  this  ques- 
tion in  the  affirmative  by  writing  his   chapter    "  Of 
the  Goose-tree,  Barnacle-tree,   or  the   Tree  bearing 
43^eese" — a  chapter  which  he  illustrated  with  a  picture 
f  a  goose-tree   putting  forth  a  fully-fledged  goose. 
-^T^rbat  makes  the  author's  testimony  on  this  subject 
^fceworthy   beyond  the   evidence   of  other   writers 
j^^tifc  the  tree-goose,  is  his  solemn  declaration  that, 
r      -3  t^ad  of  writing  from  hearsay  reports,  he  is  giving 
I'asults  of  his  personal  observance  on  the  Lanca- 
,    '^^  coast.     "  But  what   our   eies  have    seene,  and 

^1^  have  touched,  we  shall  declare/' 
H  ^  ^^ 

^-^  ^x'^^^^  ^^s  ^o*   ^^^  fi^st  naturalist  to  publish  a 

f^^di  description  and  picture  of  the  British  goose- 
P  ^n  account  of  the  tree   and  its  progeny  may 

^     4r^^x%'^^  ^^   Pona   and     Lobel's   "  Stirpium    Adver- 
j>3^ova,"  published  in  London  some  years  before 
'^^^  pearance   of   Gerarde's   "Herbal,"  which  was 

.-^  J -V"  ^^^  with  due  acknowledgment  based  upon 
^^^  ^^  ^tirpium  Adversaria  Nova."  Pena  and 
^^  ^  ^p^ak  of  the  bird-barnacles  as  •*  Britannicae 
""^^l^^^  ^/iafi/fercB,"  and,  instead  of  magnifying  the 
'"^"^  ^ -j^  t^<>  g®®^®*  a^®  content  to  call  them  ducks.  It 
^^^  ^^  4>  ^PP®^^  <^liat  they  were  ever  present  at  the 
^  "^j^i  ^*^  ""^^  tree-fowl,  but  they  assure  us  they  had 
^^    ^^^  ^^^  ''''^'  ^^^  ^oxxxxd.  it  taste  like  a  duck  or  wild 


0 


THE   DUOK-TRBB.  109 

goose.  '^  Sapit  nobis  editantibus  anatem  aut  an- 
serem  sylvestrem."  Unlike  tbe  goose-tree  of  the 
later  **  Herbal/*  Pena  and  LobeVs  duck-tree  ex- 
hibits no  bird  in  the  act  of  coming  from  a  barnacle 
still  adhering  to  the  wood.  On  the  contrary,  the 
maturing  barnacles  are  seen  dropping  to  the  water 
beneath  its  branches,  whilst  the  surface  of  the  sea 
is  alive  with  minutest  ducklings.  This  difference 
of  the  two  pictures  is  noteworthy. 

Though  Gerarde  took  the  greater  part  of  the  ma- 
terials of  his  "  Herbal"  from  the  "  Stirpium  Adver- 
saria Nova,"  it  does  not  follow  that  he  derived  his 
knowledge  of  the  fowl-tree  from  Pena  and  Lobel. 
On  the  contrary,  it  is  highly  probable  that  they  were 
indebted  to  him  for  their  notes  on  the  British  duck- 
bearing  shells.  Gerarde  was  closely  intimate  with 
the  Flemish  botanist,  whose  name  is  perpetuated  in 
the  Linnaean  term  Lobelia,  and  whose  death  at 
extreme  old  age  occurred  at  Highgate  so  late  as  the 
year  1616.  The  Englishman  assisted  Lobel  in 
bringing  the  "  Stirpium  Adversaria  Nova"  through 
the  press,  and  at  the  same  time  gave  him  particulars 
respecting  British  plants.  When  Gerarde  produced 
the  "  Herbal,"  founded  on  Lobel's  work,  the  latter 
wrote  him  a  cordial  letter  of  congratulation,  con- 
taining graceful  reference  to  former  kindnesses. 
From  the  terms  of  this  hearty,  though  pedantic, 
epistle  it  is  obvious  that  if  Gerarde  took  largely 


110  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

from  the  "  Stirpium/*  the  Flemish  savan  had  on  his 
first  arrival  in  England  used  his  friend's  *'  collec- 
tions" with  equal  freedom. 

If  Gerarde  did  not  himself  enlighten  the  foreign 
naturalists  respecting  the  duck-tree,  and  buy  the 
ducks  (barnacle  ?)  on  which  they  feasted  repeatedly, 
he  was  at  least  accountable  for  the  picture  of  the 
marvel  in  their  work.  As  one  of  the  correctors  for 
the  press,  he  sanctioned  the  illustration,  if  he  did 
not  direct  the  artist  who  produced  it.  A  compari- 
son of  the  earlier  sketch  and  later  portraiture  en- 
ables us,  therefore,  to  see  how  the  goose-marvel 
grew  in  the  botanist's  imagination.  During  the 
interval  between  1570  and  1597  his  ducks  had  be- 
come geese,  and  instead  of  being  bom  on  the  water, 
they  changed  from  fish  to  fowl,  whilst  still  upon  the 
tree. 

When  they  could  observe  thus  loosely,  and 
hasten  to  such  preposterous  conclusions,  the  special 
investigators  of  nature  needed  sorely  the  ad- 
monitions and  discipline  of  the  Baconian  philo- 
sophy. 

William  Harrison  was  one  of  the  many  shrewd 
writers  who  accepted  for  truth  those  fables  about 
fish  turning  to  birds,  and  trees  producing  fowl. 
Lobel's  book  had  been  published  only  some  fourteen 
years  and  was  still  regarded  as  a  novelty  of  litera- 
ture, when  Harrison  picked  from  the  keel  of  a  ship 


BAItNAOLB    GEESE.  Ill 

in  the  Thames  a  barnacle  in  which  he  "  saw  the 
proportion  of  a  foule  more  perfectlie  than  in  all  the 
rest,  saving  that  the  head  was  not  yet  formed,  bi- 
cause  the  fresh  water  had  killed  them  all,  and 
thereby  hindered  the  perfection."  He  adds,  "  Cer- 
teinely  the  feathers  of  the  taile  hoong  out  of  the 
shell  at  least  two  inches,  the  wings  (almost  perfect 
touching  forme)  were  garded  with  two  shels  or 
sheldes  proportioned  like  the  selfe  wings,  and  like- 
wise the  brest-bone  had  the  coverture  of  a  shelly 
substance,  and  altogether  resembling  the  figure 
which  Lobell  and  Pena  do  give  in  their  description 
of  this  foule;  so  that  I  am  now  fullie  persuaded 
that  it  is  either  the  barnacle"  (i.e.,  the  sea-fowl, 
which  bore  the  same  name  as  the  shell-fish),  *'  that 
is  ingendered  after  this  manner  in  these  shells,  or 
some  other  sea-foule  to  us  as  yet  unknowen/' 
Elizabethan  literature  contains  many  allusions 
to  the  barnacle  -  goose.  Hall  mentions  it  in 
his  *'  Satires,"  and  Marston  in  the  *'  Malcon- 
tent." 

But  it  would  be  unfair  to  suggest  that  the  Eliza- 
bethan English  were  universal  believers  in  the 
goose-tree.  Whilst  the  populace  swallowed  the 
fable  from  sheer  ignorance,  and  many  students  ac- 
cepted it  out  of  simple  reliance  on  scientific  inquirers 
like  Lobel,  the  country  contained  a  considerable 
minority  of  men  whose  robust  common  sense  saved 


112  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

them  from  the  general  error.  From  the  terms  in 
which  Harrison  and  Gerarde  maintain  the  Lobelian 
delusion,  it  is  evident  that  they  anticipated  and  en- 
countered ridicule  for  their  credulity.  * 


113 


I 


CHAPTER  VI. 

GAME. 

**  The  hanncli  was  a  picture  for  painters  to  stady, 
The  fat  was  so  white,  and  the  lean  was  so  raddy, 
Tho'  my  stomach  was  sharp,  I  could  scarce  help  regretting 
To  spoil  such  a  delicate  picture  by  eating." 

Goldsmith's  "  Haunch  gf  Venison." 

"  Fesaunt  ezcedeth  all  fowles  in  sweetnesse  and  holsomnesse,  and 
is  equal  to  capon  in  nourishynge. .  .  .  Partryche  of  all  fowles  is 
most  soonest  digested,  and  heth  in  hym  moch  nutriment." — Sir  T. 
Eltot's  "Castle  op  Helth." 

"  Like  as  a  fearefuU  partridge,  that  is  fledd 
From  the  sharp  hanke  which  her  attacked  neare, 
And  falls  to  ground  to  seek  for  succor  there, 
Where,  as  the  hungry  spaniells  she  does  spy, 
Withgreedy  jawes  her  ready  for  to  teare." 

Spenser's  "Faerie  Queen." 

"  The  merry  brown  hares  came  leaping 
Over  the  crest  of  the  hill 
Where  the  clover  and  com  lay  sleeping, 
Under  the  moonlight  still." 

Charles  Kingslet's  "Bad  Squire." 

TJBADERS  familiar  with  Mr.  Philip  Evelyn 
Ai  Shirley's  "  English  Deer-Parks,"  a  book  that 
should  be  found  in  every  comprehensive  English 
library,  do  not  need  to  be  reminded  that  our 
ancestors  of  oMen  time  regarded  deer  as  stock  for 
the  table,  rather  than  as  creatures  for  chase,  and 
that  they  slaughtered  them  in  ways  utterly  repug- 

VOL.  TI.  I 


114  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

nant  to  the  feelings  of  modern  sportsmen.     Instead 
of  pitting  their  craft,  patience,  and  bodily  endurance 
against  the  suspicious  timidity  of  the  antlered  game, 
or  surpassing  its  fleetness  with  horse  and  hound, 
they  were  chiefly  studious  to  kill  it  under  circum- 
stances  that    left   it   no   chance   of  escape.      Our 
earliest   followers   of   the    noblest    creatures    ever 
hunted  on  English  soil  were  much  less  sportsmen 
than  pot-hunters,  compared  with  whose  murderous 
arrangements  for  success  in  butchery  the  method  of 
the    Hurlingham    pigeon-shooters    is    manly    and 
generous.     Long  before   the   Normans   introduced 
the  "  saltatorium,"  the  Saxons  shot  buck  and  doe 
from  the  hiding-places  of  the  "  haia." 

A  labyrinth  of  alleys,  cut  in  a  part  of  the  wood  to 
which  the  deer  could  be  readily  driven  from  the 
surrounding  covert,  the  deer-hay  afforded  perfect 
concealment  to  the  archers  who  found  their  indolent 
pastime  in  sending  bolts  at  the  game  that  ran  along 
the  narrow  defiles  within  a  few  feet  of  their  cross- 
bows.    The  only  persons  to  take  any  honest  exer- 
cise in  this  cowardly  chase  were  the  park-keepers 
and  servile  foresters,  who  beat  the  wood  and  scared 
the   victims    to    the    scene    of   slaughter.      These 
servants  carried  horns  and  were  accompanied  by 
dogs.     But  whilst  the  sole  function  of  the  hounds 
was  to  frighten  the  deer  towards  the  "  haia,"  the 
horns  were  only  blown  to  increase  the  terror  of  the 


THE    DEER-HAY.  115 

flying  herd.  When  the  panic-stricken  creatures 
had  run  into  the  haia*s  chief  approaches,  which 
narrowed  towards  the  middle  of  the  labyrinth,  the 
preliminary  labour  was  at  an  end,  and  the  sport 
began.  The  ambushed  marksman,  who  made  a  fat 
buck  reel  and  topple  over  within  a  yard  of  his  feet, 
deemed  himself  a  hero.  If  he  missed  his  aim,  he 
was  consoled  for  a  momentary  disappointment  by 
remembering  that  one  or  more  of  his  hidden  com- 
rades would  benefit  by  his  misadventure.  For  the 
stag  there  was  no  retreat,  or  any  escape  but  death. 
The  haia  was  full  of  bowmen ;  and  maddened  by  the 
sounding  horns  and  clamorous  dogs,  the  game 
bounded  wildly  along  the  narrowing  defiles  of  the 
deadly  maze  until  he  met  the  bolt  that  laid  him  low. 
Such  was  the  deer-hay  in  which  the  Saxon  Thurst&n, 
of  pre-Norman  time,  spent  the  happiest  of  his 
hours.  * 

The  Saxon  deer-hays  discredit  the  opinion,  held 
by  several  able  antiquaries,  that  the  Normans  were 
the  first  landholders  to  surround  deer-parks  in  this 
country  with  fences.  It  is  certain  that  the  Normans 
had  for  centuries  thus  kept  the  game  within  bounds 
on  their  French  estates ;  and  it  is  highly  probable 
that  their  practice  of  enclosing  parts  of  their  forests 
for  the  safo  and  convenient  imprisonment  of  deer, 
was  derived  from  those  ancient  princes  of  Gaul 
whose  fenced  parks   are   described   by   Columella.  , 

I  2 


116  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

But  thonTb  the  Normans  greatly  increased  the 
number  of  fenced  chases  in  this  island,  the  purpose 
and  arrangements  of  the  Saxon  "  haia"  forbid  us  to 
believe  that  England  had  no  empaled  hunting- 
grounds  before  the  Conquest.  Inclosure  must  have 
preceded  the  contrivances  for  capturing  and  killing 
the  deer  at  a  certain  spot.  Without  inclosure,  the 
haia  would  have  been  ineffectual.  In  the  absence 
of  provisions  for  keeping  an  adequate  supply  of 
stock  in  the  neighbourhood  of  the  labyrinth,  the 
concealed  mat*ksman  would  have  often  skulked 
behind  tree  or  thicket  for  a  whole  day  without  get- 
ting a  single  shot.  It  is,  moreover,  incredible  that 
the  elaborate  device  for  obtaining  at  will  the  bar- 
barous excitement  and  material  profit  of  a  murderous 
slaughter  of  the  helpless  animals,  came  into  fashion 
immediately  after  the  adoption  of  in  closures. 

There  is,  however,  no  doubt  that  our  fenced  parks 
became  more  and  more  numerous  throughout  the 
Norman  period,  and  that  they  were  maintained  in 
the  interests  of  larder  quite  as  much  as  for  the  sake 
of  sport.  The  empaled  chase  was  the  sylvan  yard 
where  the  lord  of  a  wide  demesne  preserved  the 
hardy  stocl-,,that  supplied  his  table  with  fresh  meat 
during  the  seasons  when  his  menial  dependents  sub- 
sisted chiefly  on  powdered  beef  and  mutton.  It 
was  also  the  yard  where  he  amused  himself  with 
butchery.     Not  content  with  the  excitement  of  kill- 


MURDER   MOST   FOUL.  117 

ing^  his  game-stock  in  a  labyrinth,  he  seldom  neg- 
lected to  dig  a  saltatorium  in  his  slaughtering 
grounds,  if  he  had  enough  influence  to  get  a  special 
licence  to  construct  one  on  his  premises.  The  salta- 
tory or  deer-leap  was  a  covered  pit-fall  into  which 
the  deer  were  driven  by  their  sportive  followers. 
It  was  usually  dug  at  a  part  of  the  enclosure  where 
there  was  free  running  for  the  game,  and  where  the 
treacherous  prospect  aflbrded  it  hopes  of  escape. 
Putting  forth  all  its  speed,  the  flying  creature  would 
be  increasing  the  distance  between  its  heels  and 
mounted  persecutors,  when  on  springing  over  a  line 
of  faggots  and  straggling  furze-bushes,  that  might 
be  mistaken  for  a  weak  point  in  the  chase's  boun- 
dary, it  lighted  on  treacherous  turf,  and  fell  with  a 
crash  into  the  fatal  pit.  Often  the  fall  was  so  deep 
that  it  broke  the  legs  of  the  outwitted  animal. 
Anyhow,  when  a  deer  had  once  dropped  through 
the  dry  sticks  and  delusive  turf  of  the  pit-fall's 
covering,  its  running  had  ended.  A  minute  later 
the  lord  of  the  chase  rode  up  to  the  margin  of  the 
death-pit,  and  deliberately  dispatched  his  victim 
with  the  cross-bow.  One  of  the  inquiries  ordered 
by  a  Court  of  Swainmote  was,  "  Item,  whether  any 
man  have  any  great  chase  within  three  miles  of  the 
forest,  that  have  any  saltories  or  great  gaps,  called 
deer-lopes,  to  receive  deer  into  them  when  they  be 


118  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE   TABLE. 

in  chasing,  and  when  they  are  in  them  they  cannot 
get  out  again." 

Towards  the  close  of  the  feudal  period,  the  laws 
of  the  chase  forbade  such  brutal  expedients  for 
killing  deer ;  but  long  before  the  deer-hay  and  deer- 
leap  had  been  universally  discarded  as  cowardly  and 
unsportsmanlike  contrivances,  epicures  had  begun 
to  question  whether  venison  was  not  an  over-rated 
viand.  Several  of  our  Elizabethan  writers  condemn 
its  "  hardness,"  and  accuse  it  of  "  breeding  melan- 
choly." Cogan  calls  it  roundly  an  "  unwholesome 
flesh,"  and  marvels  that  a  meat,  so  injurious  to 
health  and  deficient  in  tenderness,  should  be  '^  the 
desire  of  all  foulkes,  insomuch  that  many  will  rashly 
venture  their  credit,  yea,  and  sometimes  their  lives 
too,  to  steale  venison  when  they  cannot  otherwise 
come  by  it."  It  must,  however,  be  conceded  that  if 
young  Shakespeare  risked  credit  and  life  in  a  raid  on 
Sir  Thomas  Lucy's  deer-park,  he  only  yielded  to  an 
appetite  that  was  excusable  in  the  days  when  the 
best  of  butcher's  meat  was  poor  stuff,  and  oxen  were 
seldom  sent  to  the  shambles  before  field-labour  had 
given  them  thews  of  steel.  Whatever  the  grounds 
for  thinking  him  guilty  of  the  crime,  the  poet  must 
be  acquitted  of  the  graver  offence — a  gastronomic 
blunder.  Lord  Everingham  says  in  "  Coningsby,'* 
"  Their  breeds  of  sheep  must  have  been  very  inferior 
in  old  time,  as  they  made  such  a  noise  about  their 


COGAN  ON  PHEASANTS,  119 

venison.     For  my  part,   I  consider  it   a  thing  as 
much  gone  by  as  tilts  and  tournaments." 

In  the  times  to  which  this  pithy  speaker  referred, 
our  ancestors,  with  an  abundance  of  mutton,  cannot 
be  strictly  said  to  have  had  a  single  breed  of  sheep. 
The  first  principles  of  the  breeders'  art  were  undis- 
covered, and  centuries  had  still  to  pass  away  ere 
Preston  should  be  justified  in  boasting,  '*  Only  give 
me  time,  and  I'll  give  you  a  sheep  with  its  *  leg '  on 
the  *  shoulder.'  "  Even  Lord  Everingham,  'with  all 
his  disdain  for  feudal  fare,  would  admit  that  before 
turnip-husbandry  and  the  dawn  of  the  breeder's 
science,  venison  surpassed  all  the  commoner  moats 
in  flavour  and  texture. 

Whilst  Elizabethan  epicures  and  physicians  were 
disparaging  venison,  they  spoke  handsomely  of 
pheasant.  It  exceeded  "  all  foules  in  sweetnesse 
and  wholesomeness."  Oogan  calls  it  "  meat  for 
princes  and  great  estates,  and  for  poor  scholars 
when  they  can  get  it."  One  would  think  more 
highly  of  the  epicurean  discernment  of  the  eulogists 
of  a  noble  bird,  had  they  not  recommended  us  to 
stew  it  with  celery,  a  miserable  way  of  spoiling  fine 
fare  that  cannot  be  denounced  too  warmly,  though 
boiled  pheasants  and  celery  are  still  sometimes  seen 
on  the  tables  of  intelligent,  albeit  whimsical,  gourmets. 
Whilst  its  attractive  plumage  has  disposed  gastro- 
nomic  writers   and  the  multitude  to  magnify  the 


120  A   BOOK   ABOUT  TAB   TABLE. 

considerable  virtues  of  the  pheasant,  a  dusky  ex- 
terior and  insignificant  shape  have  made  them 
reluctant  to  do  full  justice  to  the  partridge.  Re- 
cognizing it  civilly,  the  olden  epicure  seldom  praised 
the  partridge  cordially,  though  it  is  unquestionably 
superior  to  some  of  the  larger  and  more  showy  birds 
that  he  honoured  with  emphatic  eulogy.  There  are 
few  table-stories  of  the  bird,  whose  fame  suffers 
from  its  mean  appearance,  in  the  absence  of  such 
extraordinary  merits  as  extort  homage  under  any 
circumstances.  Grimod  de  la  Reynifere,  however, 
tells  a  partridge  story  that  may  be  given  as  an 
illustration  of  bad  manners  and  worse  wit.  A 
Parisian  epicure  of  the  First  Empire,  known  in 
gastronomic  circles  for  his  passionate  love  of 
partridges,  was  at  a  dinner  where  only  two  part- 
ridges were  served  for  four  people.  As  half  a  bird 
was  no  sufficient  supply  of  his  favourite  game  for 
the  amateur  of  partridges,  he  was  quick  in  appro- 
priating the  brace  under  cover  of  a  pleasantry. 
"  Look  my  friends,"  he  exclaimed,  "  it  is  a  holy 
marriage.  The  one  bird  is  male,  the  other  female. 
Let  no  one  separate  those  whom  the  Lord  has 
joined  together."  As  he  spoke,  the  ruffian  put  both 
the  birds  on  his  own  plate,  and  had  demolished  them 
before  his  companions  could  discover  the  excellence 
of  the  jest.  Given  as  a  specimen  of  gastronomic 
sprightliness,  this  anecdote  is  scarcely  successful. 


PBINCELT   HUMOUB.  121 

Grimod's  sense  of  humour  was  less  fine  than  his 
palate. 

"  My  good  man,"  said  the  Prince  Regent,  accost- 
ing a  bearer  of  game  as  he  walked  up  St.  James's 
Street  with  Sheridan,  "  is  that  your  own  hare  or  a 
wig?''  The  Prince's  admirers  declared  they  had 
never  heard  him  throw  off  a  better  pun,  and  per- 
haps they  spoke  the  truth.  As  for  the  carrier  of 
the  game,  which  had  occasioned  the  jeu  (Tesprit^  he 
was  indignant  at  the  unmannerly  reference  to  his 
artificial  locks,  and  was  already  inviting  the  greatest 
gentleman  of  Europe  to  "  come  out  into  the  street," 
when  the  latter  assuaged  his  reasonable  anger  with 
a  five-shilling  piece. 

Some  seven  hundred  years  before  this  street 
scene  Martial  wrote, 

**  In  aves  turdas,  si  quis  me  jadice  certet. 

Inter  quadrapedes  gloria  prima  lepus. 

Of  all  the  birds,  the  thrush  I  deem  the  best, 
'Mong  quadrupeds,  the  hare  beats  all  the  rest." 

In  both  these  opinions  the  epigrammatist  had  the 
hearty  concurrence  of  all  contemporary  gastro- 
nomers. The  Romans  were  prodigious  thrush- 
eaters,  spending  vast  sums  on  the  aviaries  (planted 
with  laurels  and  myrtles,  and  watered  with  mean- 
dering rivulets),  in  which  they  kept  thousands  of 
birds  whose  notes  were  not  more  dulcet  to  the  ear 
than  their  flesh  was  sweet  to  the  taste.     Fifty  years 


122  A   BOOK   ABOUT  THE   TABLE. 

since  it  was  calculated  that  the  pigeons  annually 
consumed  in  France  amounted  to  nearly  five  million 
pounds'  weight  of  solid  flesh.  The  consumption  of 
thrushes  in  Ancient  Rome  was  no  less  astound- 
ingly  large.  But  if  the  Roman  epicure's  pulse 
quickened  at  the  song  of  the  bird  which  he  cooked 
in  half  a  score  ways,  his  eyes  and  teeth  watered  with 
ecstasy  at  the  smell  of  hare.  He  could  not  name 
the  living  quadruped  without  emotion,  and  when  he 
spoke  of  the  fascinations  imparted  to  it  by  cookery, 
he  became  poetical.  All  our  modes  of  cooking  the 
hare  are  of  Roman  origin.  The  Roman  stewed  it, 
jugged  it,  baked  it,  minced  it,  potted  it,  roasted  it. 
But  he  worshipped  the  sacred  animal  most  devoutly 
when  it  had  been  stuffed  with  farce-meat  and  roasted 
to  a  turn. 

Throughout  the  Middle  Ages  the  hare  appears  to 
have  maintained  its  ancient  reputation  for  richness 
and  delicacy  of  flavour.  The  cooks  who  followed 
the  instructions  of  "  The  Forme  of  Cury"  seldom 
mixed  it  with  other  meats,  but  preferred  to  cook  it 
separately,  in  order  that  its  peculiar  taste  should 
not  suffer  from  confusion  with  other  flesh-flavours. 
This  fact  is  very  significant  of  the  esteem  in  which 
hare  was  held  at  a  time  when  the  most  incongruous 
materials  were  combined  in  hotch  -  potches.  For 
"  Hares  in  talbotes,"  the  Forme  says,  "  Take  hares 
and  hewe  hem  to  gobettes  and  seethe  hem  with  the 


I 


MEAT  AND   MEDICINE.  123 

blode,  unwaished,  in  broth ;  and  whan  they  buth  y- 
nouh,  cast  them  in  cold  water.  Pyke  and  waishe 
hem  clene.  Cole  the  broth,  and  drawe  thurgh 
stynnor.  Take  other  blode,  and  cast  in  boyling 
water;  seethe  it,  and  drawe  it.  thurgh  a  stynnor. 
Take  almondes  unblanched,  waishe  hem,  and  grynde 
hem,  and  temper  it  up  with  the  self-broth.  Cast  al 
in  a  pot.  Take  oynonns  and  parboile  them,  srayte 
hem  small,  and  cast  hem  into  this  pot.  Cast  there- 
inne  powdor-fort,  vynegar,  and  salt."  In  the  same 
work  appears  the  following  receipt  for  "  Hares 
in  Papdele :"  "  Take  hares,  parboile  hem  in  gode 
broth.  Cole  the  broth,  and  waisshe  the  fleysh,  cast 
azeyn  to  gydre.  Take  obleys,  other  wafronns,  in- 
stede  of  lozeyns,  and  cowche  in  dysshes.  Take 
powdor-douce,  and  lay  on,  salt  the  broth,  and  lay 
onoward,  and  messe  forth."  On  the  revival  of 
letters,  the  hare  was  honoured  by  the  moderns  as 
cordially  as  it  had  ever  been  honoured  by  the  me- 
diaevalists  or  classic  ancients. 

Cogan  insisted  that  hare,  like  venison,  was  "  in- 
digestible and  apt  to  breed  melancholy,"  but  he 
admitted  that,  whilst  epicures  devoured  it  with  keen 
relish,  physicians  found  it  of  singular  eflBcacy  for  the 
cure  of  several  diseases.  Mattioli,  Maximilian  the 
Second's  physician,  prescribed  hare's  liver,  dried 
and  reduced  to  powder,  as  a  specific  for  derange- 
ments of  the  liver.     The  same  physician   used  to 


124  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THB  TABLE. 

bake  the  whole  hare,  skin  and  all,  in  an  oven  till  it 
was  BO  completely  deprived  of  moisture  that  the 
pestle  and  mortar  could  grind  the  charred  flesh  to  a 
fine  powder,  which  was  deemed  a  sovereign  remedy 
for  such  sufferers  as  in  our  time  seek  relief  from  Sir 
Henry  Thompson,  Had  Napoleon  the  Third  lan- 
guished in  Elizabethan  times  of  the  disorder  that 
killed  him  in  Victorian  England,  he  would  have 
been  dieted  on  raw  hare's  kidneys,  and  a  porridge 
of  barley-meal  and  hare's  blood.  "  The  gaule  of 
hare,"  says  Cogan,  "  doth  take  away  flewmes  of  the 
eye,  and  helpeth  dimnesse  of  sight."  The  stronger 
hairs  of  the  hare,  when  burnt,  afforded  a  good 
powder  for  staunching  the  blood  of  open  wounds, 
and  the  sufferer  from  bleeding  at  the  nose  was  ad- 
monished to  snuff  up  his  nostrils  the  soft  down 
plucked  from  the  belly  of  a  leveret.  At  the  same 
time  "  the  ankle-bone  of  the  foote  of  an  hare,"  worn 
as  an  amulet,  was  "  goode  against  the  cramp."  So 
late  as  the  middle  of  the  last  century  "Pulvis  Leporis'* 
was  mentioned  respectfully  by  our  writers  on  phar- 
macy. 

No  reader  of  this  page  needs  to  be  told  that  once 
upon  a  time  Mrs.  Glasse  wrote  a  cookery-book  for 
the  enlightenment  of  English  housekeepers,  and 
that  the  learned  matron  opened  her  directions  for 
roasting  a  hare  with  the  famous  words,  "First 
catch  your  hare.^^     But  some  readers  will  now  learn 


A   PLEASANT   FICTION.  125 

for  the  first  time  that  no  Mrs.  Glasse  ever  wrote  a 
maoual  for  English  cooks,  and  a  far  larger  number 
of  readers  will  hear  with  surprise  that  no  edition  of 
the  cookery-book,  published  under  the  nom  deplume 
of  Mrs.  Glasse,  contains  the  proverbial  order,  "  First 
catch  your  hare."  One  is  reluctant  to  demolish  a 
pleasant  fiction  which  has  caused  merriment  for 
half  a  century,  and  re-appeara  from  time  to  time  in 
the  leading  articles  of  our  best  journals,  but  historic 
justice  requires  that  the  gentlewoman  who  never 
lived  should  be  acquitted  of  the  charge  of  writing 
the  receipt  which  no  one  ever  penned. 

In  his  witty,  but  not  severely  accurate  "  Art  of 
Dining,"  Mr.  Hayward  says,  "  Mrs.  Glasse's  book 
was  written  by  Dr.  Hunter."  The  doctor  did  no 
such  thing.  The  culinary  treatise  of  Dr.  Hunter,  of 
York,  was  a  very  different  performance  from  "  Mrs. 
Glasse's  book."  No  man  of  his  time  was  more 
familiar  with  the  secrets  of  "  the  trade,"  of  which 
he  was  a  most  respectable  member,  than  Edward 
Dilly,  who  is  so  often  mentioned  in  Bos  well's 
"Johnson."  The  Brothers  Dilly  (Edward  and 
Charles)  were  the  booksellers  of  the  Poultry  at 
whose  hospitable  table  Johnson  often  dined  in  fit 
company  with  wits  and  scholars.  Johnson  used  to 
style  them  his  "worthy  iriends,"  and  certainly 
Edward  was  worthy  of  credence  when,  in  the  hear- 
ing of  Boswell,  Miss  Seward,  Dr.  Mayo,  and  the 


126  A  BOOK   ABOUT  THE   TA6LB. 

Duke  of  Bedford's  tutor,  the  Reverend  Mr.  Beresford, 
he  observed  to  Dr.  Johuson,  "  Mrs.  Glasse's 
•  Cookery/  which  is  the  best,  was  written  by  Dr. 
Hill.  Half  the  trade  know  this."  Of  course  John- 
son acknowledged  the  information  by  questioning 
its  accuracy. 

In  a  career  of  grievous  humiliations  and  notable 
successes,  the  author  thus  mentioned  at  a  literary 
dinner-party  had  plied  a  facile  pen  on  many  subjects. 
A  man  of  singular  energy  and  some  cleverness,  he 
was  no  less  remarkable  for  the  industry  that  gave 
him  wealth  than  for  the  egregious  vanity  that 
for  more  than  thirty  years  made  him  the  mark  of 
satire  as  spiteful,  and  of  slander  as  unscrupulous,  as 
his  own.  Apothecary,  actor,  pamphleteer,  dramatic 
author,  novelist,  gossiping  journalist,  physician, 
naturalist,  .and  quack-doctor,  he  considered  himself 
competent  to  judge  every  artist,  and  answer  every 
question.  A  Jack-at-all-tbe-scribbling-trades,  his 
enemies  styled  him  Dr.  Atall,  when,  on  the  strength 
of  a  St.  Andrew's  degree,  he  styled  him  self  Dr.  Hill, 
a  title  which  he  relinquished  towards  the  close 
of  his  days.  Having  married  Lord  Ranelagh's 
sister,  and  obtained  the  Swedish  decoration  of  the 
Polar  Star,  he  ordered  a  compliant  world  to  call 
him  Sir  John  Hill.  A  volume  could  be  made  of 
anecdotes  to  his  discredit,  and  of  scornful  epigrams 
hurled  at  him  by  wits  who  derided  his  pretentions, 


A   VERSATILE   GENIUS.  127 

by  men  of  honour  who  disdained  his  untruthfulness, 
or  by  Grub  Street  hacks  who  hated  him  for  thriving 
on  arts  which  only  yielded  them  the  barest  sub- 
sistence. At  present,  few  of  these  pasquinades  are 
remembered  by  the  public,  with  the  exception  of 
the  epigram  which  attributed  his  death  to  his  own 
gout-tincture,  and  the  stinging  lines  in  which 
Garrick  expressed  an  equal  contempt  for  his  medicine 
and  dramas, — 

"  For  physic  and  farces, 
His  equal  there  scarce  is, 
His  farces  are  physic. 
His  physic  a  farce  is." 

"He  used,"  Johnson  said  of  Hill,  or  (as  some 
Boswellian  editors  suspect)  of  some  other  scribe  to 
whom  the  description  could  not  have  been  more 
applicable,  "  to  write  anonymous  books,  and  then 
other  books  commending  those  books,  in  which 
there  was  something  of  rascality."  John  Hill  was 
still  following  the  business  of  an  apothecary  in  St. 
Martin's  Lane,  and  had  for  years  been  working 
obscurely  in  the  service  of  booksellers,  when  he 
bethought  him  to  gather  together  the  receipts  of 
half-a-score  old  cookery-books,  and  work  them  up 
with  new  phrases  and  a  little  new  material  into  a 
dictionary  of  food  for  the  use  of  housekeepers  and 
kitchen-servants. 

The  enterprise  cost  him  but  little  labour ;  and  when 


128  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

the  compilation  was  ready  for  the  press,  he  decided 
to  bring  it  out  at  his  own  risk  and  without  the 
co-operation  of  a  publisher.  Instead  of  selling  the 
work  through  the  book-trade,  he  would  distribute 
its  copies  at  shops  more  frequented  than  book-stalls 
by  the  class  of  women  most  likely  to  buy  the  new 
treatise.  In  George  the  Second's  time  Mrs.  Ash- 
burn  kept  a  flourishing  china  and  glass  shop  in 
Fleet  Street,  which  attracted  customers  from  all  the 
most  fashionable  quarters  of  the  town.  For  a 
modest  commission — a  much  smaller  percentage 
than  the  publishers'  allowance  to  mere  hook-sellers 
•^Mrs.  Ashburn  agreed  to  sell  the  cookery-book 
over  her  counter,  and  press  it  upon  the  ladies  who 
bought  her  decanters  and  tea-cups.  To  catch  the 
ladies  who  were  apt  to  resent  masculine  inter- 
ference in  kitchen  affairs,  the  apothecary  of  letters 
deemed  it  prudent  to  announce  on  the  title-page 
that  the  compiler  was  a  lady.  Moreover,  he  had 
no  wish  to  figure  openly  in  a  department  of  literature 
beneath  his  scientific  and  philosophic  dignity.  As 
the  author  of  a  cookery-book  he  would  fail  to 
conciliate  the  Royal  Society,  to  which  he  hoped  to 
be  elected  in  the  course  of  a  few  years,  through  the 
influence  of  the  Duke  of  Richmond  and  Lord  Petre, 
who  had  already  recognised  his  botanical  acquire- 
ments and  commended  him  to  the  chief  savans  of 
the  town. 


MRS,  ashburn's  china-shop.  129 

The  book,  thus  produced  at  the  compiler's  risk, 
without  the  intervention  of  a  publisher,  bore  this 
title-page,  "The  Art  of  Cookery  made  Plain  and 
Easy ;  which  far  exceeds  anything  yet  published. 
By  a  Lady.  Printed  for  the  Author,  and  sold  at 
Mrs.  Ashburn's,  a  china  shop,  the  corner  of  Fleet 
Ditch,  1745."  The  book  was  needed,  and  it  was 
executed  with  sufficient  ability.  Together  with 
lots  of  crockery  and  glass,  it  went  from  Mrs.  Ash- 
burn's  store  to  houses  in  every  district  of  the  town. 
Ladies,  who  would  not  have  seen  it  at  book-stalls, 
encountered  it  in  the  glass-shop,  bought  it,  and 
sent  their  friends  to  buy  it.  A  second  edition  was 
quickly  demanded,  scarcely  more  to  the  delight  of 
Mr.  Hill  than  of  Mrs.  Ashburn  (or  Ashburner,  as 
the  name  is  spelt  in  some  of  the  editions),  who, 
whilst  getting  more  than  she  had  anticipated  from 
her  per-centage  on  the  sale,  saw  that  the  book  was 
an  attraction  which  filled  her  rooms  with  new 
customers  for  other  wares.  The  second  edition  dis- 
appeared with  equal  rapidity.  On  the  appearance 
of  the  third  edition,  the  book  was  announced  as  the 
work  of  "  Mrs.  Glaase,"  a  nom  de  plume  probably 
suggested  by  the  chief  ware  of  the  glass-shop.  In 
due  course  it  was  followed  by  the  "  Complete  Con- 
fectioner; or.  The  Whole  Art  of  Confectionary 
made  Plain  and  Easy.  By  H.  Glasse,  Author  of 
*  The  Art  of  Cookery.'     Sold  at  Mrs.  Ashburner's 

VOL.  II.  K 


130  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

china-shop,  the  corner  of  Fleet  Ditch ;  at  Tewd's 
hat  warehouse,  near  Sonaerset  House ;  at  Kirk's 
toy-shop,  in  St.  Paul's  Church-Yard ;  and  at  Dend's 
toy-shop,  facing  Arlington  Street,  Piccadilly." 
The  alteration  of  the  nom  de  pliune^  by  the  sub- 
stitution  of  the  initial  letter  of  ffill,  may  perhaps 
indicate  that  the  compiler  was  slightly  disposed  to 
avow  his  production  of  a  work  which  had  become 
so  successful  that,  besides  being  accepted  as  an 
authority  in  the  best  kitchens  of  the  town,  it  was 
often  given  to  brides  as  a  wedding  present.  Sub- 
sequent editions  came  forth  with  title-pages  in 
which  the  book  was  variously  assigned  to  *'  H. 
Glasse,"  "^  Mrs.  Glasse,"  and  "A  Lady."  When 
the  two  works  had  been  floated  into  a  large  and 
increasing  circulation  through  shops,  chiefly  sup- 
ported by  womankind,  they  were  combined  in  a 
grand  new  edition  of  "  The  Art  of  Cookery,"  that 
was  sold  by  "  all  the  principal  booksellers  of  the 
town." 

John  Hill  is  said  to  have  made  £1,500  a  year  by 
his  pen  whilst  his  literary  success  was  at  its  height, 
and  the  prodigious  sale  of  the  cookery  book,  on 
terms  singularly  advantageous  to  the  compiler, 
renders  the  statement  credible.  He  certainly  lived 
with  every  appearance  of  affluence  at  a  time  when 
his  writings  were  his  chief,  if  not  his  only,  sources 
of  emolument.     At  a  later    period,    having    out- 


A   EEADEE  AT  FAULT.  131 

written  himself,  and  lost  his  hold  on  readers,  he 
prospered  as  a  seller  of  "  nostrums,"  driving  a 
showy  carriage,  keeping  two  houses,  and  faring 
sumptuously  to  the  last. 

But  no  edition  of  "  The  Art  of  Cookery"  con- 
tains   the    famous    receipt.      The    story    of    that 
receipt  arose  from  a  reader's  mistake.     The  direc- 
tions for  roasting   a   hare  in  the  original  edition 
open  with,     "  Take   your  hare  when  it  is   cased, 
and  make  a  puddinge,  &c."     A  later  edition  says, 
"  Take  your  hare  when  it  is  cased,  truss  it  in  this 
manner,  &c."     In  the  grand  edition,  with  a  hun- 
dred and  fifty  new  receipts  and  a  copious  index, 
the  order  also  opens  with    "  Take  your  hare  when 
it  is    casedy     The    same    word  is    used    by   the 
author  of  '*  The  Court   aiid  Kitchen  of  Elizabeth, 
Commonly  called    Cromwell,"    (1664).      Directing 
the  cook  how  to  dress  a  leveret,  he  says,  "  Case 
your  leveret,"  i.e.,  skin  it.'    Our  old  writers  often 
call  an  animal's   skin   its  case,  and  use  the  same 
word  as  a  verb  with  the  meaning  to  "  uncase"  or 
*'  remove  the  skin."     In  the  •*  Anatomy  of  Melan- 
choly,"   Burton    says,    "  For    generally,    as    with 
rich  furred  conies,  their  cases  are  far  better  than 
their  bodies,  and  like  the  bark  of  the  cinnamon  tree, 
which  is  dearer  than  the  whole  bulk,  their  outward 
accoutrements   are   far  more    pretious  than  their 
inward  endowments."     In  "  All's  Well  that  Ends 

E  2 


I 


132  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

Well,"  we  read,  "We'll  make  you  some  sport  with 
the  fox  ere  we  case  him."  In  the  familiar  term 
"  case-hardened,"  i.e.,  skin-hardened,  case  still 
retains  a  signification  which,  though  it  has  fallen 
out  of  use  in  later  time,  was  a  common  meaning  of 
the  word  in  the  seventeenth,  and  not  a  rare  one  in 
the  earlier  half  of  the  eighteenth  century. 

Ignorant  of  this  meaning  of  "  case,"  a  flippant 
reader  of  "  The  Art  of  Cookery"  regarded  it  as  a 
misprint  for  "catched."  Having  thus  improved 
the  text,  he  imagined,  or  felt  justified  in  saying, 
that  Mrs.  Glasse  wrote,  "  First  catch  your  hare." 


133 


CHAPTER  VIL 

BREAD   AND   VEGETABLES. 

"  Kutte  with  your  knyf  your  brede,  and  broke  yt  nouhte." 

The  Babb£*8  Book. 

**  Drinke  holsam  drinke,  and  feede  >ee  on  lijt  breed.*' 

A  DiATOBIE  (a.d.  1430). 

**  Non  fermentatus  panis  bene  corpora  nutrit, 
Ventrem  procurat." 

Modus  Ccenandi. 

'*  At  the  same  time,  at  certain  seasons  of  the  year,  we  all  appre- 
ciate asparagas,  cabbages,  broccoli,  and  caaliflowers,  and  this  gronp 
of  plants  contains  albumen ;  but  fibrine  is  the  form  of  the  proteina- 
ceous  substances  from  which  we  derive  the  largest  quantity  of  our 
flesh-forming  food,  and  this  fibrine  is  contained  in  wheat,  barley* 
oats,  rye,  maize,  rice,  potatoes,  and  a  great  number  of  other  vege- 
table foods." — D&,  Lankester's  "  Lectu&es  on  Food." 

TN  Elizabethan  England  the  "yield"  of  good 
-■-  wheat  land  varied  from  sixteen  to  twenty 
bushels  per  acre.  In  the  northern  parts  of  the 
country  the  yield  on  a  large  crop  was  somewhat 
less  than  sixteen  bushels,  but  in  the  southern 
counties  good  farmers  of  the  best  land  often  grew 
more  than  twenty  bushels.  As  barley-growers, 
they  were  more  successful,  a  good  crop  of  that  corn 
often  producing  as  much  as  six-and-thirty  bushels 
per  acre. 

Besides  a  bread  called  "miscelin,"    in    which 


134  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

wbeaten  bran  was  an  ingredient,  oar  Elizabethan 
ancestors  made  five  kinds  of  wheat-bread  : — 1.  Man- 
chet.  2.  Cheat.  3.  Raveled  cheat.  4.  Brown, 
of  the  first  quality.  5.  Brown,  of  the  second 
quality.  Manchet,  the  bread  of  the  higher 
tables  of  aristocratic  houses,  was  made  in  small 
loaves  that,  on  leaving  the  oven,  weighed  only 
six  ounces  each.  It  was  the  bread  commended  by 
old  writers  as  "  white"  and  "  sweet."  Of  a  "  grey 
or  yellowish  colour,"  cheat — the  household  bread  of 
superior  families— was  made  of  flour,  from  which 
the  coarsest  bran  (called  gurgeons  or  pollard)  had 
been  taken.  Raveled  cheat,  the  usuatl  bread  of 
fairly  prosperous  citizens,  was  made  of  meal,  from 
every  bushel  of  which  two-and-twenty  pounds  of 
bran  had  been  taken.  On  leaving  the  oven,  the 
loaf  of  raveled  cheat  weighed  sixteen  ounces,  and 
was  sold  in  towns  in  accordance  with  the  siiding- 
scale  of  King  John's  statute  for  regulating  the  price 
of  bread.  The  better  brown  was  made  of  the 
wheaten  meal,  as  it  came  firom  the  mill,  without 
any  abstraction  of  flour  or  bran.  Inferior  brown, 
having  scarcely  any  flour  in  it,  was  made  almost 
entirely  of  the  bran  taken  fi*om  the  meal  of  which 
manchet  and  cheat  were  manufactured.  "  It  was 
the  corn-food,"  says  Harrison,  "  appointed  in  olden 
time  for  servants,  and  slaves,  and  the  inferiour  kind 
of  people  to  feed  upon."     To  give  consistency  to 


AN   OLD   PREJUDTOB.  135 

the  dry  and  brittle  loaves  of  the  inferior  brown, 
rve-meal  was  often  mixed  with  the  bran-dough,  in 
waich  case  the  compound  was  designated  "  mis- 
celin."  The  Elizabethans  had  also  other  breads — 
black  bread,  made  of  rye,  barley-bread,  oaten-bread, 
bean-bread,  and  pea-bread,  and  breads  made  of  the 
mixtures  of  these  cheaper  kinds  of  meal.  As  we 
have  remarked  in  an  earlier  chapter,  acorns  were 
worked  into  bread-stuff  in  times  of  scarcity,  by  the 
most  indigent  of  the  Elizabethan  populace. 

Cogan  agreed  with  most  of  the  doctors  of  his 
time  in  thinking  unleavened  bread  unwholesome, 
and  even  threw  discredit  on  "  simnels,  cracknels, 
bunnes,  wafers,  fritters,  and  pancakes,"  as  fari- 
naceous foods  lacking  the  ingredient  that  would 
have  made  them  digestible.  Pastry  is  regarded 
with  dislike  by  many  valetudinarians,  on  account  of 
its  "richness,'*  though  they  will  eat  plentifully  of 
bread  buttered  thickly;  but  their  prejudice  against 
a  generally  innocent  preparation  originated  probably 
in  the  old  prejudice  against  unleavened  flour-food. 

Whilst  unleavened  bread  was  generally  con- 
demned for  unwholesomeness,  the  author  of  the 
"  Modus  Coenandi "  ventured  to  declare  in  Latin, 
which  Professor  Seeley  has  Englished,  "  Bread  7wt 
fermented  nourishes  the  body  well ;  it  is  good  for 
the  stomach,"  a  fact  abundantly  demonstrated  by 
the  consumers  of  rice  and  maize,  and  those  of  the 


136  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

Scotch  who  live  chiefly  on  unfermented  oatmeal. 
Indeed,  modern  science  has  utterly  discredited  the 
old  denouncers  of  unleavened  bread,  which  hurts  no 
man,  whilst  fermented  bread,  though  perfectly 
wholesome  to  the  majority,  has  been  proved  to  be 
very  injurious  to  a  small  minority  of  feeders.  "  On 
some  persons,'*  says  Dr.  Lankester,  "  fermented 
bread  acts  as  a  poison."  In  late  years,  popular 
opinion  has  in  more  than  one  of  our  largest  cities 
declared  strongly  against  the  general  consumption 
of  fermented  bread,  as  a  hurtful  preparation;  and 
processes — those  of  Dr.  Whiting  and  Dr.  Dauglish 
— have  been  invented  for  vesiculating  bread-stuff 
without  the  aid  of  fermentation.  Whilst  Dr. 
Whiting's  method  achieves  its  end  by  putting 
carbonate  of  soda  into  the  flour,  and  hydrochloric  acid 
into  the  water,  used  for  the  manufacture  of  bread. 
Dr.  Dauglish's  "  patent"  forces  water  charged  with 
carbonic  acid  gas  into  the  flour,  the  two  ingredients 
being  rapidly  mixed  by  the  aid  of  steam  in  a  manner 
that  dispenses  with  the  laborious  process  of  knead- 
ing. One  of  the  fanciful  objections  to  bread  made 
with  yeast  arises  from  the  fact  that  it  contains  the 
smallest  conceivable  amount  of  the  alcohol,  formed 
by  the  fermentation  of  that  portion  of  the  starch 
which  is  converted  into  glucose.  But  the  amount 
of  alcohol  in  yeast-bread  is  so  trivial,  that  the  tee- 
totaller may  eat  the  old-fashioned  food  with  an  easy 


THE    RIVAL   DUMPLINGS.  137 

conscience.  Some  years  since,  when  an  unsuccessful 
company  worked  a  process  for  catching  the  alcohol 
evolved  from  fermented  bread  whilst  in  the  oven, 
its  method  was  misrepresented  to  the  populace  as  a 
nefarious  plan  for  extracting  alcohol  from  bread,  and 
so  depriving  the  consumer  of  a  certain  quantity  of 
spirit.  "  Bread  sold  here  with  the  gin  in  it,'*  was 
the  announcement  placarded  at  the  bakers'  shops 
that  opposed  most  vigorously  this  insidious  attempt 
to  "  rob  a  poor  man'* — of  his  gin. 

By  the  way,  whilst  Yorkshire  is  glorious  for  its 
baked  batter  puddings,  East  Anglia  is  famous  for 
two  kinds  of  farinaceous  food  that  may  be  rated  as 
breads.  The  heavy  SuflFolk  dumpling  is  unleavened, 
and  the  light  Norfolk  dumpling  is  leavened,  bread, 
cooked  in  the  boiler  instead  of  the  oven.  In  his 
**  Grand  Diction naire,"  Alexandre  Dumas  makes  a 
droll  mistake,  where  he  says,  "  Dumpling  de  Norfolk. 
Ce  mets  qui  a  Thonneur  de  devoir  son  nom  au  due 
de  Norfolk,  lequel  raffectionnait  beaucoup,  se  fait 
de  la  fa9on  suivante ;  vous  mettez  dans  une  pate  un 
peu  ^paisse  un  grand  verre  de  lait,  deux  oeufs  et  un 
peu  de  sel,  faites  la  cuire  deux  ou  trois  minutes  dans 
de  Teau  bien  bouillante,  jetez  egoutter  sur  un  tamis, 
et  servez  avec  du  beurre  frais  un  peu  sal^." 

Perhaps  no  gastronomic  writer  ever  made  a 
droller  blunder  than  this  account  of  the  Norfolk 
dumpling,   which    only    differs    from    the    Suffolk 


138  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

**  damper"  in  being  made  with  yeast.  Of  course, 
the  yeast  dumpling  swells  greatly  in  boiling,  a  fact 
that  has  occasioned  comical  mishaps.  Many  years 
since,  when  Monsieur  de  Rouillon,  a  French  ^migr^ 
of  ancient  nobility,  had  just  settled  at  Norwich, 
where  he  was  for  many  years  an  eminent  Professor 
of  French,  his  young  bride  decided  to  give  him  the 
provincial  dumpling  for  his  dinner.  In  her  ignorance 
of  the  creature's  habit,  and  in  the  absence  of  a 
larger  boiler  in  her  poorly  furnished  kitchen, 
Madame  boiled  her  dumpling  in  a  big  kettle,  from 
which  it  could  be  only  extracted  by  means  of  a 
Caesarian  operation. 

Though  rye-bread  was  thought  hurtful  to  weak 
stomachs,  the  author  of  "  The  Haven  of  Health" 
says  it  was  much  eaten  in  the  rural  districts ;  and 
he  observes  that  familiar  experience  in  Lancashire, 
Cheshire,  Cumberland,  Westmoreland,  and  Corn- 
wall contradicts  Galen's  assertion  that  oats,  though 
fit  for  beasts,  were  no  fit  diet  for  men.  Cogan,  by 
the  way,  recommends  dyspeptical  persons  to  spice 
their  breads  with  caraway  and  fennel  seeds.  Hence, 
it  appears,  the  inventor  of  the  Abernethy  biscuit 
had  Elizabethan  authority  for  the  medicinal  ingre- 
dient of  his  unleavened  cake. 

Though  the  Old  English  were  poorly  supplied 
with  vegetables,  their  destitution  in  this  respect  was 
far  less  complete  than  several  historians  have  repre- 


A  BAD  TIME   FOE   GARDENS.  189 

sented.     Harrison  was  not  without  grounds  for  his 
opinion  that   horticulture   languished    during    the 
century  following   Henry   the   Fourth's   accession. 
The  civil  convulsions,  which  repressed  literature  and 
impoverished  every  order  of  men,  were  highly  pre- 
judicial to  the  luxurious  and  refining  pursuits.    Not 
more  injurious  to  the  families  which  joined  in  the 
universal  strife,  than  to  the  art  which  furnished  the 
contendants   with    the    fairest    emblems   of   their 
mutual  enmity,  the  Wars  of  Bases  deprived  manners 
of  their  civility,  and   robbed  the  soil  of  all  labour 
that  was  not  requisite  for  the  production  of  the 
bare   necessaries   of  life.      Rudeness   invaded   the 
table,  and  weeds  covered  the  gardens,  which  had 
been  prolific  of  the  choicer  fruits  and  vegetables 
mentioned  in  the  "  Forme  of  Cury."     But  even  in 
the    hardest  times    of    the   fifteenth   century   our 
ancestors   had    their    watercresses   and   rampions, 
their  rapes  and  turnip-tops,  their  dandelions  and 
common  spinaches,  their  coarse  gourds  and  cab- 
bages, and  the  dozens  of  wild  herbs  which,  though 
they  fell  into  disesteem  soon  after  the  introduction 
of  the  American  potato  and  Italian  broccoli,  were 
long  valued  as  wholesome  and  palatable  materials 
for  the  pot.     It  is  absurd  to  infer  from  the  loose 
statements  of  careless  writers,  that  the  chief  lady  of 
Henry  the  Eighth's  England  could  not  get  a  mess 
of  green  esculents  without  sending  to  Antwerp  or 


140  A    BOOK   ABOUT  THE   TABLE. 

Rotterdam  for  them.  Yet  the  sceptical  Hume  could 
on  no  better  authority  assert,  "  It  was  not  till  the 
end  of  the  reign  of  Henry  the  Eighth  that  any 
salads,  carrots,  turnips,  or  other  edible  roots  were 
produced  in  England  ;  the  little  of  these  vegetables 
that  were  used  was  imported  from  Holland  and 
Flanders.  Queen  Catherine,  when  she  wanted  a 
salad,  was  obliged  to  send  a  messenger  thither  oa 
purpose.''  The  tradition,  accepted  thus  literally 
and  used  so  strangely  by  the  historian,  may  have 
originated  in  the  fact  that,  in  the  dearth  of  certain 
materials  for  a  salad,  and  in  the  absence  of  some 
new  vegetables,  the  royal  lady  imported  from 
the  Low  Countries  a  supply  of  herbs  and  roots  for 
plantation  in  her  gardens.  Such  a  circumstance 
would  have  afforded  a  smart  talker  the  occasion  for 
declaring  that  her  Highness,  unable  to  pick  a  salad 
in  all  England,  was  compelled  to  send  across  the  sea 
for  one.  But  it  is  preposterous  to  imagine  that  she 
was  ever  in  such  straits  for  a  dish  of  green  meat 
as  Hume  would  have  us  think. 

The  tastes  and  habits  of  the  table  are  not  quickly 
formed  by  an  entire  people.  In  Elizabeth's  time 
our  ancestors'  fondness  for  vegetables  amounted 
almost  to  a  passion,  and  caused  them  to  welcome 
every  addition  to  their  supply  of  roots  and  herbal 
esculents.  The  alacrity  with  which  they  adopted 
the  American  tuber,  which,  in  course  of  time,  pro- 


THE   ELIZA.BBTHAN   KITCHEN-GABDEN.  141 

duced  deplorable  results  in  the  history  of  Ireland,  is 
significant  of  a  gastronomic  preference  that  could 
not  have  developed  itself  in  some  sixty  years. 
Eleven  years  had  not  elapsed  since  Raleigh's  adven- 
turers brought  our  first  potatoes  from  Virginia 
before  they  were  commonly  grown  and  eaten  in  this 
country.  In  1697,  Gerarde  could  write  of  potatoes 
as  familiar  fare.  At  the  same  time  our  forefathers 
ate  tulip- roots  (dressed  with  sugar),  radishes,  pump- 
kins, artichokes,  Jerusalem  artichokes,  fourteen 
kinds  of  cole  wort,  "  including  the  colie-flore  or  cole- 
flore,  and  the  great  ordinarie  cabbage,  commonly 
eaten  all  over  this  kingdome,"  Peruvian  potatoes, 
Virginian  potatoes,  cucumbers,  carrots,  parsnips, 
turnips,  broccoli,  beet,  asparagus,  onions,  together 
with  other  good  vegetables.  They  had  also  their 
lettuces,  spinaches,  cresses,  and  a  score  other 
esculent  leaves  for  hot  and  cold  salads,  of  which 
further  mention  will  be  made.  Whatever  the  dearth 
of  vegetables  in  Henry's  time,  it  had  completely 
disappeared  in  Elizabeth's  days. 

Cogan  thought  radishes  **  unwholesome  any  way," 
but  he  records  that  they  were  eaten  largely  by  his 
countrymen,  as  a  sauce,  with  roast  mutton  and 
other  meats.  Gerarde  observes  that  they  may  be 
eaten  raw  with  bread.  The  precise  way  in  which 
Curius  Dentatus  dressed  them  in  the  presence  of 
the    Samnite  ambassadors,   is  one  of  those  facts 


142  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

about  which  history  is  silent.  Probably  the  frugal 
Roman  was  preparing  them  with  oil,  and  would 
not  have  addressed  the  embassy  with  so  rough  a 
tongue,  had  he  first  smoothed  it  with  the  mess. 
Speaking  of  parsnips  and  carrots,  Cogan  tells  us 
to  boil  and  butter  them,  "  especially  parsnips." 
The  Elizabethan  housekeeper  who  grudged  butter 
for  the  parsnips  which  she  set  before  her  guests, 
gained  an  ill  name.  However  smooth  her  tongue, 
she  could  not  palliate  her  parsimony  with  pleasant 
speeches.  "Apologies,"  says  the  Elizabethan 
adage,  "  won't  butter  parsnips."  Potatoes  were 
also  dressed  profusely  with  butter.  Cucumber  has 
an  ill  name  for  indigestibility ;  but  whilst  Cogan, 
ever  quick  to  discover  unwholesomeness  in  food, 
recommends  us  to  sauce  our  mutton  in  the  Summer 
with  peppered  slices  of  the  fruit,  Gerarde  extols 
cucumber  pottage,  thickened  with  oatmeal,  'as  a 
remedial  diet  for  persons  afflicted  with  "  flegme 
and  copper-faces,  red  and  shining  fierie  noses  (as 
red  as  red  roses),  with  pimples,  pumples,  rubies, 
and  such-like  precious  faces." 

The  English  have  at  all  times  been  large  con- 
sumers of  pulse.  The  compilers  of  the  "  Forme 
of  Cury"  used  beans  and  peas,  new  and  old,  in  . 
their  soups  and  hotch-potches ;  and  in  later  times 
the  demand  for  early  peas  in  the  London  market 
caused  them  to  be  sold  at  prices  that   scandalized 


EAELY  GREEN  PEAS.  143 

careful  housekeepers.  In  the  middle  of  the  seven- 
teenth century  the  keeper  of  an  eating-house,  near 
the  Savoy,  offered  ten  shillings  for  a  peck  and  a 
half  of  green  peas  (unshelled),  which  a  poor 
woman  was  carrying  to  the  Protector  Cromwell's 
lady,  in  the  hope  that  she  would  receive  a  much 
larger  sum  for  the  first  fruits  of  her  pea-garden. 
The  poor  woman  was  disappointed,  Elizabeth 
Cromwell  had  a  passion  for  new  peas;  but,  like 
a  dame  of  inferior  degree  and  more  recent  time, 
she  was  frugal,  even  when  bent  on  pleasure. 
Accepting  the  "  present,"  Mistress  Cromwell  sent 
the  "giver"  a  crown-piece,  which  the  latter  in- 
dignantly declined  to  accept.  A  lively  dispute  en- 
sued between  the  lady's-maid  and  the  market- 
woman,  which  ended  in  the  restoration  of  the  peas, 
that  were  forthwith  sold  for  an  angel  in  the  Strand. 
**  And  so,"  savs  the  author  of  Elizabeth  Cromwell's 
**  Court  and  Kitchen"  (1664),  "  half-slightingly, 
and  half-ashamedly,  this  great  lady  returns  the 
present,  putting  it  off  with  a  censure  upon  the 
unsatisfactory  dantinesse  of  luxurious  and  prodigal 
epicurisme.  The  very  same  were  afterwards  sold 
by  the  woman  to  the  said  cook,  who  is  yet  alive 
to  justify  the  truth  of  this  relation."  What 
stronger  evidence  of  the  story's  truth  can  be 
required  by  the  impartial  reader  ? 

Following    an    Apician  precept,    our  ancestors 


144  A   BOOK   ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

brightened  the  greenness  of  their  yoiing  peas  by 
boiling  them  in  water  strongly  seasoned  with  salt- 
petre. Albert  Smith,  in  one  of  hip  jest-books, 
advised  the  cook  who  would  give  her  peas  a  fine 
colour  to  send  them  to  Hammersmith,  for  that 
was  the  way  to  Turnham  Green ;  a  flippancy,  by- 
the-by,  for  which  Albert  was  indebted  to  Oliver 
Goldsmith,  who  gave  the  same  order  for  the  treat- 
ment of  pickles. 

Not  more  delicious  to  the  palate,  than  hateful 
for  the  smell  which  it  imparts  to  the  breath,  the 
onion  has  always  been  a  source  of  doubt  and  diffi- 
culty to  the  fastidious  epicure.  Whether  he 
regards  leek  or  chive,  garlic  or  shallot,  onion  or 
scallion,  he  vacillates  between  love  and  detesta- 
tion, and  doubts  whether  he  should  bless  or  curse 
a  thing  so  exquisite  in  fruition,  and  execrable  in 
consequences.  His  usual  course  is  to  humour  his 
appetite,  and  then  to  avoid  the  ladies,  till  he 
has  paid  the  full  penalty  of  indulgence.  It  is  so 
now;  and  was  so  in  ancient  Rome.  Martial 
wrote, 

•*  rila  Tarentini  graviter  redolentia  poni, 
Edisti  quoties,  oscnla  clausa  dato." 

"  The  juice  of  leeks  who  fondly  sips. 
To  kiss  the  fair  must  close  his  lips." 

Brummell  the  Beau,  who  once  ate  a  pea,  was  once 
present  at  a  vehement  disputation  on  the  delicate 


A   NICE   QUESTION.  145 

question,  whether  a  gentleman  might  eat  onions 
immediately  before  going  into  the  company  of 
gentlewomen.  The  discussion  took  place  at  a  time 
when  the  "  Sublime  Steaks"  were  in  their  palmiest 
days,  and  the  feebler  dandies  wanted  courage  to 
decry  the  strong-smelling  bulbs  beloved  by  beef- 
eaters. Brummell  at  first  kept  silence,  only 
evincing  his  disgust  at  the  vulgar  topic  by  expres- 
sive grimaces ;  but  on  being  pressed  for  his  opinion, 
he  remarked  sententiously,  "  No  man  is  so  well- 
looking  and  fascinating  that,  on  entering  a  ball- 
room, he  can  afford  to  handicap  himself  with  a 
stink." 

For  centuries  the  English  epicure  had  been  satis- 
fied with  the  small  and  comparatively  flavourless  onion 
of  his  native  soil,  when  his  happiness  was  enlarged 
by  the  introduction  of  the  far  finer  bulb  of  France. 
This  momentous  event  in  our  gastronomic  annals 
was  attended  with  humorous  circumstances.  Cor- 
bifere,  the  French  naval  novelist,  was  staying  at  the 
small  port  of  Roscoff  when  he  received  a  visit  from 
a  compatriot,  whom  he  had  never  seen  before,  and 
who  entered  his  presence  without  any  letter  of  in- 
troduction. A  sea-faring  man,  he  had  a  title  to 
M.  Corbiere's  sympathy.  He  was  also  a  merchant- 
adventurer,  who  combined  the  tradesman's  shrewd- 
ness with  the  sailor's  frankness.  His  brow 
betokened    intelligence    and    courage,    whilst    his 

VOL.  IT.  L 


146  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

Herculean  stature  and  vast  shoulders  afforded  a 
spectacle  that  stirred  his  beholder's  heart  with 
patriotic  emotion.  To  M.  Oorbiere's  inquiry  for 
his  visitor's  purpose,  the  man  answered,  "  Sir,  I  am 
about  to  make  a  voyage  on  important  business  to 
London,  where  I  shall  find  myself  in  a  land  of  whose 
language  I  am  entirely  ignorant.  In  order  that  I 
may  transact  my  affairs,  tell  me  the  English  of  these 
words,  *  L'oignon  Anglais  n'est  pas  bon.'  '* 

"  Surely  I  will  do  so.  In  English  they  are  *  The 
English  onion  is  not  good.'  "  To  impress  them 
fully  on  his  visitor's  mind,  M.  Corbiere  repeated  the 
words  several  times. 

"  Sir,"  entreated  the  Roscovite,  **  have  the  great 
goodness  to  write  them  on  a  slip  of  paper." 

When  M.  Corbifere  had  done  so  the  man  of  sea 
and  commerce  took  his  writing  and  his  departure. 
A  week  later  the  stupendous  man  and  small  adven- 
turer was  in  the  port  of  London,  with  his  boat  laden 
with  French  onions.  On  the  following  day  he  took 
his  stand  at  a  corner  of  Covent  Garden  Market 
amidst  goodly  piles  of  his  best  bulbs,  over  which 
was  exhibited  a  placard  bearing  the  words,  "  The 
English  Onion  Is  Not  Good."  A  crowd  quickly 
gathered  round  the  foreigner,  who,  to  all  remarks 
thrown  at  him,  replied  with  equal  good  temper  and 
gravity,  **  De  Inglees  on-i-on  ees  not  good."  This 
steadily    reiterated    announcement    provoked    the 


UPEOAB   IN   "THE   GARDEN.  147 

anger,  without  lessening  the  curiosity  of  a  crowd, 
more  remarkable  for  prejudice  against  foreigners 
than  for  courtesy  to  anyone.  "  What  do  you  mean, 
you  parlez-vooing  thief  ?  Do  you  mean  to  insult 
England  ?"  exclaimed  a  furious  oostermonger,  who 
again  received  the  reply,  "  De  Inglees  on-i-on  ees 
not  good."  "  Do  you  want  to  fight  ?"  roared  the 
orator  of  an  afironted  people.  Again,  for  the  hun- 
dredth time,  came  the  answer,  "  De  Inglees  on-i-on 
ees  not  good."  "  Look  here,"  screamed  the  coster- 
monger,  "  parlez-voo  in  that  way  again,  and  I'll 
give  you  more  Inglees  on-i-on  than  you'll  stomach. 
Do  you  hear,  Froggy  ?"  Bent  on  making  himself 
intelligible  to  a  dull  people,  the  Roscovite  began  to 

say  once  more  "  De  Inglees  on-i "  when  the 

oostermonger  ran  in  upon  him.  In  an  instant  the 
assailant  was  caught  by  the  elbow,  and  sent  spinning 
round  and  round  like  a  top.  The  hum  of  riot  and 
street-fight  arose.  Maddened  by  the  repulse  which 
he  had  endured,  the  oostermonger  rushed  on  his 
prodigious  foe,  who  raised  him  in  his  arms,  and 
then  threw  him  flat  on  the  ground,  face  and  belly 
downwards.  A  yell  rose  from  all  the  spectators, 
some  of  whom  had  enough  French  to  inform  the 
Roscovite  that  in  England  he  must  throw  his  man 
on  the  back  and  shoulders,  with  face  upwards.  Re- 
turning to  the  attack,  the  Englishman  sprung  at 
the  traducer  of  the  British   onion,  when  he  was 

L  2 


148  A   BOOK  ABOUT  THE   TABLE. 

again  caught  up  and  thrown,  but  this  time  on  his 
shoulders,  according  to  the  insular  '^regies  de  la 
lutte.**  When  the  same  feat  had  been  repeated 
till  the  assailant  cried  "  Enough,  enough  1"  there 
arose  "  hourras  I"  and  "  les  bravos  1"  from  the  Eng- 
lish spectators,  who,  after  the  wont  of  their  coun- 
trymen, could  appreciate  merit  demonstrated  thus 
cogently  by  physical  force.  In  their  delight  with 
the  gallant  Roscovite,  they  were  about  to  carry  him 
in  triumph  round  the  "  Garden,"  when  he  exclaimed 
in  French,  "  Not  so,  not  so.  While  you  are  carry- 
ing me  in  triumph  you  will  steal  my  onions."  On 
learning  his  apprehension,  through  an  interpreter, 
the  by-standers  put  an  end  to  the  hero's  suspicions  by 
buying  all  his  onions  at  his  own  price ;  and  then 
they  "  chaired  him"  and  "  cheered  him"  round  the 
market.  From  that  day  the  English  market  has 
been  open  to  French  onions,  forty  cargoes  of  which 
are  annually  sent  to  London  from  the  single  port 
of  Roscoff.  Does  the  reader  question  the  historic 
accuracy  of  this  story  ?  He  will  dismiss  the  un- 
generous doubt  on  learning  that  the  anecdote  is 
given  on  the  authority  of  Alexandre  Dumas.  An 
unfortunate  fact  for  this  story,  and  the  credit  of  M. 
Dumas,  is  that  onions  were  largely  imported  to  this 
country  from  France  and  Spain  in  the  seventeenth 
century.  In  his  "  Acetaria ;  A  Discourse  of  Sal- 
lets,"  John  Evelyn  says  of  onions,  "  The  best  are 


I 


MUSHROOMS.  149 

such  as  are  brought  us  out  of  Spain,  whence  they 
of  St.  Omers  had  them,  and  some  that  have  weighed 
eight  pounds." 

Whatever  the  defects  of  the  English  onion,  it  is 
universally  conceded  that  our  mushrooms  are  good 
when  gathered  with  care  and  treated  skilfully.  Nor 
can  it  be  questioned  that  they  were  largely  eaten  by 
our  ancestors  of  the  Roman  period,  who  adopted  the 
cuisine  of  their  conquerors.  To  die  of  bad  mush- 
rooms is  not  an  heroic  way  of  quitting  life,  but  it 
was  through  a  dish  of  poisonous  fungi,  admi- 
nistered treacherously  by  his  niece  and  fourth  wife, 
Agrippina,  that  the  Emperor  Claudius  went  to  the 
unseen  world.  What  troubled  the  Roman  wits 
chiefly  in  this  afiair  was  their  inability  to  discover, 
for  their  own  safety  and  the  good  of  all  epicures, 
the  particular  species  of  *  fungus  that  killed  this 
wearer  of  the  purple.  Similar  "  accidents"  may 
have  decided  our  mediaeval  ancestors  to  relinquish 
a  practice  taken  from  the  Romans,  and,  in  their  in- 
ability to  distinguish  clearly  between  good  and 
noxious  fungi,  to  neglect  the  mushroom  altogether. 
Anyhow,  our  edible  fungi  were  regarded  with  whole- 
some suspicion,  if  not  with  universal  abhorrence,  in 
the  earlier  part  of  our  Tudor  time,  and  the  fashion 
of  eating  them  did  not  revive  till  that  period  was 
dri^wing  to  a  close.  After  glancing  at  the  new 
vegetables  of  his  day,  Harrison  says  of  their  eaters. 


150  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

'*  Neither  doo  they  now  staie  with  such  of  these 
fruits  as  are  wholesome  in  their  kinds,  but  adventure 
further  upon  such  as  are  verie  dangerous  and  hurt- 
ful as  the  verangenes,  mushrooms,  &c."  In  the 
middle  of  the  following  century  Edmund  Gayton 
wrote  against  mushrooms, 

**  Pepper  and  oyl  and  salt,  nay  all  cook's  art, 
Can  no  way  wbolesomeness  to  them  impart^ 
What  Dr.  Butler  said  of  the  cacnmber. 
Of  these  ground-bucklers  we  the  same  aver. 
Dress  them  with  care,  then  to  the  dung-hill  throw  'am, 
A  hog  won't  touch  'um  if  he  rightly  knowe  'am !" ' 

Dr.  Glynn  of  Cambridge  —  a  far  later  medical 
celebrity  than  Dr.  Butler — used  to  say  that  to  be 
rightly  dressed,  a  cucumber  should  be  sliced  into 
very  thin  slices,  sprinkled  with  the  finest  oil, 
peppered  plentifully,  covered  fairly  with  vinegar, 
and  then — thrown  out  of  the  window.  But  the 
pleasantry,  with  which  the  Cambridge  physician  has 
been  credited  in  medical  *^  ana,"  was  at  best  only  a 
curious  refinement  on  Dr.  Butler*s  order  to  the 
same  end. 

The  Duke  of  Newcastle,  whose  fame  has  been 
rendered  ludicrous  to  all  posterity  by  Horace  Wal- 
pole's  pen,  was  liable  to  panics ;  and,  in  a  sudden 
alarm  about  mushrooms,  he  issued  an  order  that 
Gayton  would  have  cordially  approved,  for  the  im- 
mediate and  complete  destruction  of  all  mushrooms 


A   VOICE    OF   LAMENTATION.  151 

and  toadstools,  and  all  other  fungi  whatsoever  dis- 
coverable in  Claremont  Park.  His  incomparable 
cook,  Chloe,  went  nearly  mad  at  the  prompt  and 
thorough  execution  of  this  whimsical  ukase.  "  Poor 
Dr.  Shaw,"  says  the  malicious  Walpole,  mistelling 
the  story,  partly  out  of  carelessness,  but  chiefly  with 
the  design  o£  rendering  the  Duke  more  ridiculous, 
"being  sent  for  in  great  haste  to  Claremont  (it 
seems  the  Duchess  had  caught  a  violent  cold  by  a 
hair  of  her  whisker  getting  up  her  nose,  and  making 
her  sneeze),  the  poor  Doctor,  I  say,  having  eaten  a 
few  mushrooms  before  he  set  out,  was  taken  so  ill 
that  he  was  forced  to  stop  at  Kingston,  and,  being 
carried  to  the  first  apothecary's,  prescribed  a  medi- 
cine for  himself  which  immediately  cured  him.  This 
catastrophe  so  alarmed  the  Duke  of  Newcastle  that 
he  immediately  ordered  all  the  mushroom-beds  to 
be  destroyed,  and  even  the  toadstools  in  the  park 
did  not  escape  scalping  in  this  general  measure. 
And  a  voice  of  lamentation  was  heard  at  Ramah  in 
Claremont — *  Chloe*  weeping  for  her  mushrooms, 
and  they  are  not."  Instead  of  eating  them  before 
the  journey  from  town  to  Claremont,  Dr.  Shaw  took 
the  mushrooms  which  caused  his  indisposition  im- 
mediately before  the  homeward  journey.  The  meal 
that  occasioned  the  physician's  attack  was  eaten 
under  the  Duke's  roof,  and  Chloe's  mushroom-beds 
were  destroyed  because  there  was  conclusive  proof 


152  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

that  some  of  her  mushrooms  had  done  the  mischief. 
His  Grace  was  not  a  wise  man,  but  he  was  not  so 
foolish  as  to  demolish  his  own  mushrooms  because 
the  doctor  had  eaten  some  indigestible  fungi  in 
London. 

Gayton  made  a  trip  in  saying  that  a  hog  would 
decline  to  eat  mushrooms,  "  if  he  rightly  knew 
them."  The  gluttonous  propensities,  always  con- 
spicuous in  pigs,  are  combined  with  a  considerable 
discernment  of  flavours,  that  comes  into  operation 
as  soon  as  the  animals  are  in  position  to  choose 
their  own  food  and  eat  daintily.  Unclean  beasts, 
able  to  relish  anything,  they  also  exhibit  strong 
gastronomic  preferences ;  and  they  devour  the  more 
delicate  and  odorous  of  the  fungoid  growths  with  an 
avidity  which  goes  some  way  to  prove  their  kinship 
to  epicures  of  our  own  species.  With  his  delicate 
nerves  of  smell,  the  hog  is  no  less  quick  and  sure 
than  the  truflfle-terrier  in  detecting  the  scent  of  the 
subterranean  truffle ;  and  in  some  districts  he  guides 
the  truffle-hunter  to  the  delicacy  which  Brillat- 
Savarin  justly  styled  "  le  diamant  de  la  cuisine." 

This  elegant  tribute  to  the  virtues  of  the  truffle 
should  not  be  mentioned  without  a  passing  allusion 
to  the  baneful  properties  of  the  esculent  which  has 
been  known  to  destroy  abruptly  those  whom  it  has 
fascinated  for  a  few  brief  minutes.  Even  as  a 
youth  with   weak   lungs  should  refrain  from  the 


LOYAL  TO   THE   LAST.  153 

violent  excitement  of  rowing,  the  epicure  of  weak 
stomach  should  avoid  the  perilous  delight  of  the 
truffle-gourmand.  Together  with  many  votaries 
the  truffle  has  had  several  victims.  If  Claudius 
died  of  mushrooms,  it  must  be  recorded  of  the 
Due  d'Escars,  Louis  the  Eighteenth's  superb  Grand- 
Maitre  d*H6tel,  that  he  was  killed  by  trvffea  h  la 
puree  d! ortolans.  The  duke  and  his  royal  master  had 
laboured,  and  enjoyed  their  labour's  proper  reward, 
for  several  hours  in  that  strict  privacy  which  often 
guarded  their  gastronomic  inquiries  and  pleasures 
from  vulgar  observation.  With  their  own  hands 
they  had  prepared  the  fatal  compound ;  and  having 
eaten  it  with  unqualified  satisfaction,  they  had 
retired  to  rest  with  easy  consciences.  A  few  hours 
later,  Louis  le  D6sir^  was  roused  from  his  tranquil 
slumber  to  be  informed  that  his  faithful  maitre^ 
d^ hotel  was  already  in  the  arms  of  death.  The 
expiring  duke  had  despatched  a  timely  warning  to 
his  master,  in  order  that  the  King  might  avoid 
disaster  by  prompt  measures.  Betraying  an  heroic 
conviction  of  his  own  safety,  and  a  royal  freedom 
from  emotional  weakness,  the  sovereign  observed, 
•*  Dying  I  and  of  my  truffes  d  la  puree  ?  Poor  man ! 
Then  he  sees  I  did  him  no  injustice.  I  always  said 
I  had  the  better  stomach  of  the  two." 

No  vegetable  is  at  the  same  time  so  fruitiiil  of 
delight  and  so  innocuous  as  asparagus — the  Aspara- 


164         A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE, 

gus  Sativus  of  botanists,  and  "  the  grass "  or 
"  sparrow-grass "  of  the  London  fruiterers.  The 
only  discordant  note  that  disturbs  the  music  of  its 
harmonious  story  comes  from  the  controversy 
whether  its  tender  heads  should  be  dressed  with  oil 
or  butter.  Fontenelle  and  the  Abb^  Terrasson  were 
close  friends  to  the  last;  but  to  the  last  they 
differed  on  this  important  point,  Fontenelle  insisting 
on  oil,  and  Terrasson  declaring  no  less  firmly  for 
butter.  One  day  the  Abb^  dropt  in  to  dine  with  the 
poet,  when  the  latter  had  just  received  a  superb  bas- 
ket of  asparagus.  With  proper  regard  for  his  friend's 
taste,  and  a  noble  sacrifice  of  his  own  feelings,  the 
poet  ordered  his  cook  to  dress  one  half  of  the 
asparagus  with  butter,  and  the  rest  with  oil.  This 
direction  having  been  given,  the  friends  composed 
themselves  for  chat  till  the  repast  should  be  served. 
Half-an-hour  later,  when  the  Abb^  was  in  the  act 
of  uttering  a  pleasantry,  he  fell  back  in  his  chair, 
and  died  instantly  of  a  stroke  of  apoplexy.  With 
admirable  presence  of  mind,  before  he  despatched  his 
valet  for  a  physician,  Fontenelle  opened  the  door 
of  his  cabinet  and  called  to  his  cook,  **Tout  a 
Vhuile  maintenant;  tout  a  Vkiiile^* — *•  All  with  oil, 
now ;  all  with  oil." 

Fontenelle  and  the  advocates  of  oil  had  ancient 
usage  on  their  side.  Terrasson  was  the  champion 
of  a  novelty.     In  Elizabethan  England,  asparagus 


I 


ELIZABETHAN  ASPABAQUS.  155 

when  served  separately,  was  always  dressed  with 
oil.     In  "  The  Herbal,"  John  Gerarde  says  of  this 
vegetable, "  It  is  named  asparagus,  of  the  excellency, 
because   asparagi   doth   properly  signify   the   first 
spring  or  sprout'  of  every  plant,  especially  when  it 
is  tender,  and  before  it  do  grow  into  an  hard  stalk, 
as  are  the  buds,  or  young  springs  of  wild  vine  or 
hops,  or  such  like."     Richardson  doubts  whether  he 
should  agree  with  Varro  in  thinking  the  word  a  de- 
rivative "  ex  aspens  virgultis,"  or  with  Lennep,  who 
derived  it  from  "  a  priv.  and  ^srajaireri/j^,  to  tear  to 
pieces."   Gerarde  goes  on  to  say,  "  The  first  sprouts 
and  tender  shoots  hereof  be  oftentimes  sodden  in 
flesh-broth  and  eaten  ;  or  boiled  in  faire  water,  and 
seasoned  with  oile,  vinegar,  and  pepper,  they  are 
served  up  as  a  salad."     But  such  large  asparagus — 
with  thick,  stringy  stalks,  and  heads  bigger  than 
filbert-nuts,  —  as    is     now-a-days    sold    in    every 
fruiterer's  shop  during  the  season  for  the  vegetable, 
was  unknown  in  Elizabethan  times.     **  Manured  or 
garden  sperage,"  says   Gerarde,  "  hath  at  his  first 
rising  out  of  the  ground  thicke  tender  shoots,  very 
soft  and  brittle,  of  the  thicknesse  of  the  greatest 
swan's  quill,  in  taste  like  the  green  bean,  have  at 
top  a  certain  scaly  soft  bud."     And  so  long  as  the 
finest  asparagus  sticks  were  no  larger  than  swan's 
quills,     our   ancestors    ate    the    stalks    (green  in 


156  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE   TABLE. 

those  days)  as  well  as  the  heads  of  the  tender 
vegetable. 

The  practice  of  setting  asparagus  deep  in  the  soil 
of  highly-earthed  beds,  and  subsequently  covering 
the  beds  with  dry  litter, — a  practice  which,  without 
improving  the  flavour,  chainged  so  greatly  the  out- 
ward appearance  of  the  growth,— became  general  in 
the  early  years  of  the  eighteenth  century.  The  date 
of  this  horticultural  change  can  be  fixed  with  suffi- 
cient exactness  by  some  pleasant  anecdotes. 

Smarting  under  adverse  circumstances  and  real 
or  imaginary  indignities,  which  wrought  permanent 
injury  to  his  moral  nature,  young  Jonathan  Swift 
was  acting  as  Sir  William  Temple's  private  secre- 
tary when  he  encountered  William  the  Third  at 
Moorpark.  Whilst  Sir  William  was  confined  to  his 
bed  with  gout,  the  sovereign  inspected  his  host's 
beatitif  ul  gardens,  and  graciously  taught  the  poor 
scholar,  who  officiated  as  his  guide  round  the 
grounds, "  how  to  cut  asparagus  in  the  Dutch  way." 
Swift  had  occasion  also  to  see  the  king  eat  asparagus. 

More  than  half-a-centnry  had  passed  since  this 
meeting  of  the  great  king  and  the  great  humourist, 
and  Swift,  who  died  in  1745,  was  lying  in  his  grave 
in  St.  Patrick's  Cathedral,  when  Leland,  the  his- 
torian, and  George  Faulkner,  the  Dublin  alderman 
and  bookseller,  met  at  a  dinner-table  where  the  talk 
turned  on  the  famous  Dean.      During  this  gossip 


A  PLEASANT  HOST.  157 

Faulkner,  who  had  repeatedly  printed  and  published 
for  Swift,  recalled  an  occasion  when  he  had  dined 
at  the  Dean's  table  in  his  deanery.  The  publisher 
having  been  detained  for  some  time  at  the  deanery 
on  business  connected  with  some  proof-sheets,  the 
man  of  letters  had  pressed  him  to  dine  with  him 
tete-a-tete.  Asparagus  was  one  of  the  vegetables  at 
the  repast ;  and  when  the  guest  asked  for  a  second 
helping  of  the  fare,  the  frugal  host,  pointing  to  the 
applicant's  plate,  observed,  "  Sir,  first  finish  what 
you  have  upon  your  plate."  "  What,  Sir  ?"  an- 
swered the  man  of  business,  "  eat  my  stalks  ?" 
"  Ay,  Sir,"  the  Dean  responded  in  his  most  imperious 
manner ;  "  eat  your  stalks,  or  you  will  have  no 
more.  King  William  always  ate  his  stalks."  Where- 
upon the  man  of  business,  yielding  to  a  will  stronger 
than  his  own,  ate  his  stalks  submissively,  whilst 
his  cynical  host  doubtless  chuckled  secretly  at  an- 
other  exhibition  of  a  free-man's  servility.  "  And 
George,"  exclaimed  Leland  with  astonishment,  when 
Faulkner  had  given  this  illustration  of  Swift's  in- 
solence and  his  own  meekness,  "  what !  were  you 
really  blockhead  enough  to  obey  him  ?"  ^*  Yes," 
Faulkner  replied,  bridling  up  and  flushing  angrily, 
"and,  Doctor,  if  you  had  dined  with  Dean  Swift 
tete-a-tete^  faith,  you  would  have  been  obliged  to  eat 
your  stalks  too !" 

Sir  Walter  Scott  tript  in  saying  that  William  the 


1 


158  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

Third  taught  Swift  "  how  to  eat  the  vegetables  with 
Dutch  economy,"  implying  thereby  that  the  slender 
green  stalks  eaten  by  the  king  were  no  daintier 
meat  than  such  thick  stringy  stalks  as  the  novelist's 
readers  habitually  put  aside.  The  fact  is,  whilst 
little  inferior  in  texture,  the  lower  part  of  the  green 
stalk  is  even  superior  in  flavour  to  the  head  of 
the  vegetable,  when  grown  in  the  old  fashion.  A 
chronic  invalid  always  under  medical  care,  even 
when  he  fought  his  battles,  William  of  Orange  was 
not  likely  to  load  his  stomach  with  a  lot  of  indi- 
gestible white  stalks.  But  new  horticulture  had 
made  asparagus-stalks  uneatable,  before  a  load  of 
them  was  forced  down  his  obsequious  publisher's 
throat  by  the  whimsical  misanthrope,  whose  bio- 
graphy abounds  with  instances  of  the  morbid  delight 
he  took  in  putting  outrageous  affronts  on  his  social 
inferiors,  and  seeing  to  what  depths  of  self-humilia- 
tion he  could  goad  them. 

The  literature  of  gastronomy  affords  at  least  a 
score  of  apocryphal,  and  extremely  improbable 
asparagus  stories,  which  make  fun  of  persons  so 
simple  as  to  imagine  that  the  white  stalks  were  the 
eatable  part  of  a  dish  of  asparagus.  One  tells  how 
"  a  wag"  (that  supreme  social  nuisance  of  our 
Georgian  period),  sitting  down  with  a  "  countryman" 
to  a  plate  of  asparagus,  said,  "  Come,  I  am  not 
hungry,  so  I'll  cut,  and  you  shall  choose,"  dividing 


WAGS   AT   FAULT.  159 

with  his  knife,  as  he  spoke,  the  heads  from  the  stalks. 
Of  course  the  simple  and  greedy  "countryman'* 
seized  the  larger  portion.  Another  tells  how  a 
bundle  of  the  new  ( I)  vegetable  was  sent  in  George 
the  Third's  time  from  London  to  a  "country" 
lady,  who  was  cautioned  in  a  note  to  "  cut  off  the 
heads  and  throw  away  what  was  uneatable."  Mis- 
construing the  instructions,  the  old-fashioned  ma- 
tron threw  away  the  heads,  and  nearly  killed  herself 
by  eating  the  stalks.  A  third  anedote  certifies  that 
a  worthy  woman  of  the  same  recent  period,  living 
in  the  heart  of  Somersetshire,  chopped  up  several 
pounds  of  the  stringy  stalks,  dressed  them  with 
melted  butter  and  pepper,  and  thp>n,  having  eaten 
them,  observed  that  "  she  did  not  think  much  of 
the  new  vegetable."  The  originators  of  such  tales 
were  droUy  ignorant  of  the  plant's  history.  A 
vegetable,  commonly  grown  in  our  Elizabethan  gar- 
dens, can  have  been  no  novelty  to  our  rudest 
housekeepers  of  Georgian  times.  It  is  not  likely  that 
"  country"  people  were  less  ignorant  of  the  "  grass" 
than  town-folk.  And  even  whilst  the  modern  way 
of  growing  it  was  a  novelty,  the  rustic  gourmand 
cannot  have  needed  instruction  that  the  green  head 
was  more  agreeable  than  the  white  stalk. 

Far  different  irom  these  foolish  anecdotes  is  the 
story  told  by  Brillat-Savarin  of  the  asparagus  that 
raised  its  head  once  upon  a  time  in  the  garden  of 


160  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

MonseigDeur  Courtois  de  Quincey,  Bishop  of  BeDey. 
The  Bishop  was  extremely  fond  of  the  vegetable,  and 
evinced  signiBcant  delight  on  hearing  that  a  head  of 
unusual  size  had  appeared  just  above  the  surface  of 
his  asparagus-bed.  To  ascertain  the  truth  of  the  news, 
the  most  reverend  Monseigneur  hastened,  with  a 
party  of  familiar  friends,  to  the  spot  where  this  marvel 
could  be  seen.     The  report  was  true.     The  deli- 
cately-painted and    shining  head  was  wonderfully 
large.     A   new   animation   pervaded   the  Bishop's 
residence.     His  superb  head  of  asparagus  was  the 
talk  of  all  Belley  and  the   surrounding   country. 
Day  after  day  he  visited  it  with  his  guests,  mark- 
ing its  gradual  ascent  from  the  bed.     At  last  the 
moment  arrived  when,  in  the  presence  of  a  dozen 
agitated    spectators,    the    Bishop,   knife  in   hand, 
stooped  and  put  the  blade's  edge  to  the  delicate 
production.     Alas  1  the  knife  could  not  cut  it.    The 
vegetable  was  a  thing  of  wood,  which  some  malicious 
mechanician    had    carved,    painted,    and    planted. 
Amongst  the  witnesses  of  this  comical  scene  was 
the  Canon  Rosset,  the  irrepressible  smile  of  whose 
humorous  face  betrayed  that  he  was  the  perpetrator 
of  the  jest.     After  the  lapse  of  two  generations  this 
ludicrous  incident  afforded   a  Parisian  confectioner 
the  suggestion  for  those  imitations  of  asparagus,  in 
cream-ice  and  water-ice,  that  are  sometimes  served 
at  London  dinner-tables. 


AT   FOliTY   FRANCS   A-BUNDLE.  161 

When  Brillat-Savarin  expressed  his  surprise  to 
Madame  Chevet,  of  the  Palais  Royal,  that  she  could 
find  purchasers  of  asparagus  at  the  price  of  forty 
francs  a  bundle,  and  presumed  that  such  costly 
luxuries  went  only  to  the  king's  palace  or  the  hotels 
of  princes,  she  told  the  epicure  he  was  in  error,  and 
enlightened  him  with  piquant  words.  Princes 
would  buy  the  beautiful^  but  they  were  slow  to  spend 
money  on  the  Tnagnificent.  Her  costliest  dainties 
were  consumed  by  private  persons,  and  left  her 
hands  more  quickly  than  cheaper  goods.  Even 
whilst  she  spoke,  Paris  contained  some  three 
hundred  men  of  money — financiers,  capitalists,  con- 
tractors— confined  to  their  rooms  by  gout,  fear  of 
cold,  the  doctor's  orders,  and  other  causes,  which  did 
not  prevent  them  from  eating.  Sitting  over  his  fire, 
each  one  of  these  was  racking  his  brain  to  imagine 
the  delicacy  most  fit  to  revive  his  jaded  appetite, 
and,  after  wearying  himself  with  vain  endeavours  to 
settle  the  question,  would  send  out  his  valet  to 
make  observations.  The  valet  would  visit  her 
window,  see  the  parcel  of  asparagus  at  forty  francs, 
and  return  with  an  account  of  its  magnificence. 
Ten  minutes  later  it  would  be  sold  at  full  price. 
Or  a  newly-married  husband,  passing  the  shop  with 
his  "  jolie  petite  femme"  on  his  arm,  would  buy  the 
bundle  at  her  request.  Anyhow,  the  thing  being 
rare  and  highly  expensive,  it  would  be  sold  to  some 

VOL.  II.  M 


162  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

one.  The  epicure  was  still  gossiping  with  Madame 
Chevet,  when  two  stout  Englishmen  rolled  up  to 
the  shop,  saw  the  prize,  and  desired  it.  Another 
minute  had  not  passed  before  one  of  the  islanders 
had  paid  his  forty  francs,  put  the  bundle  under  his 
arm,  and  carried  it  off,  singing  triumphantly  his 
national  anthem,  "  sifflant  I'air,  God  save  the  king." 
What  a  patriotic  fellow  was  **  the  Englishman 
abroad,"  some  fifty  years  since,  that  he  could  not  buy 
a  bundle  of  asparagus  without  praying  for  his  sove- 
reign's safety,  or  a  basket  of  peaches  without  hum- 
ming "Rule  Britannia  1"  Now-a-days  he  would 
buy  the  whole  of  the  Palais  Royal  without  conde- 
scending to  hum  even  an  opera  air. 

Madame  Chevet's  evidence  respecting  the  Paris 
of  her  time  might  be  applied  to  the  London  of  to- 
day. The  social  explorer  would  not  find  our  most 
luxurious  tables  in  the  houses  of  our  princes.  In 
England,  the  lavish  epicure  is  more  often  a  man  of 
the  people  than  of  the  noblesse.  When  difficulties 
were  rapidly  growing  upon  him  and  stopping  the 
road  to  preferment,  Serjeant  Wilkins — that  best  of 
advocates  for  a  common  jury  in  a  horse -case — 
thought  nothing  of  a  couple  of  guineas  for  a 
luncheon  to  his  taste.  And  having  eaten  at  his 
midday  repast  a  couple  of  bundles  of  asparagus,  at 
half-a-guinea  a  bundle,  he  would  qualify  this  "  food 
for  the  brain"  by  drinking  a  pint  or  two  of  heavy 


A   CLEVER  NOVELIST.  163 

London  stout,  to  bring  his  intellect  down  to  the 
level  of  the  British  jury.  In  "The  Princess 
Clarisse,"  one  of  Mr.  Mortimer  Collinses  clever 
novels.  Sir  Clare  says,  "Liebig,  or  some  other 
scientist,  maintains  that  asparagein,  the  alkaloid  in 
asparagus,  develops  form  in  the  human  brain ;  so  if 
you  get  hold  of  an  artistic  child  and  give  it  plenty 
of  asparagus,  it  will  develop  into  a  Bafaelle." 


If  2 


164 


CHAPTER  VIIL 

THE  SALAD. 

A  good  salad  is  the  prologue  to  a  bad  snpper. 
He  would  live  for  aye  must  eat  sallet  in  May, 
A  fool  can  pick  a  sallet  as  well  as  a  wiser  man. 

ENGysH  Pkovekbs. 

"  Four  persons  are  wanted  to  make  a  good  salad,  a  spendthrift 
for  oil,  a  miser  for  vinegar,  a  counsellor  for  salt,  and  a  roadman  to 
stir  all  up." — Spanish  Proverb. 

"  Lcttuse  is  much  used  in  salets  in  the  sommer  tyme  with  vinegar, 
oyle,  and  sugar  and  salt,  and  is  formed  to  procure  appetite  for 
roeate,  and  to  temper  the  heate  of  the  stomach  and  liver." — Cogan*s 
"Haven  op  Health." 

rpOWARDS  the  close  of  a  long  and  honourable 
-^  life,  John  Evelyn  produced  the  "  Acetaria :  a 
Discourse  of  Sallets,"  which  he  dedicated  to  Lord 
Chancellor  Soraers.  The  subject,  which  the  diarist 
treated  in  a  separate  work,  demands  at  least  a 
chapter  in  this  survey  of  the  English  table. 

The  Romans  were  great  salad-eaters,  and  in  the 
"De  Opsoniis"  may  be  found  brief  directions  for 
the  sauces  proper  for  their  common  salads.  In 
default  of  lettuces,  they  ate  endives  (flavoured  with 
finely  minced  onion),  which  they  dressed  in  the 
spring  with  liquamen  and  oil,  and  in  the  winter  with 
honey  and  vinegar.     Their  salads  of  lettuces  were 


A    CHANGE   OF   FASHION.  165 

dressed  with  liquaraen  and  vinegar,  or  with  an  oxy- 
poron  composed  of  cummin,  ginger,  green-rue,  nitre, 
dates,  pepper,  and  honey.  But  whilst  eating  lettuce 
with  great  gust,  the  Romans  questioned  its  whole- 
someness,  and  after  taking  a  salad  would  some- 
times correct  its  hurtful  influence  by  drinking  half  a 
cochlearium  of  oxyporon^  mixed  with  a  little  vinegar 
and  liquamen.  If  the  meat  had  occasioned  incon- 
venience, the  remedy  was  nicely  calculated  to  com- 
plete the  mischief. 

The  earlier  of  the  old  Romans  used  to  close  their 
meals  with  salad  ;  but  in  Martial's  time  it  was  usual 
to  eat  the  green  food  at  the  beginning  of  a  repast. 
He  says : — 

*'  Glaudere  qu89  coBoas  Lautnca  solebat  avorum. 
Die  mihi,  car  nostras  incohat  ilia  dapes  ?" 

Englished  in  Gerarde's  "  Herbal," 

"  Tell  me,  why  Lettuce,  which  oar  grandsires  last  did  eate, 
Is  now  of  late  become  to  be  first  of  meat  P" 

s 

Like  the  Romans  of  Martial's  tinle,  our  ancestors, 
from  the  feudal  days  to  the  eighteenth  century, 
regarded  the  salad  as  a  prelude  to  the  heavier  dishes 
of  a  banquet.  Whilst  Harrison,  Cogan  and  Gerarde 
remark  on  this  fashion  of  the  English  table  in 
Elizabeth's  time,  culinary  authors  of  the  seventeenth 
century  show  that  the  practice  of  serving  green- 
meat  hejore  flesh  or  fish  was  maintained  throughout 


L. 


166  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

the  Stuart  period.  **  A  boyled  sallet  of  herbs  or 
carrots"  appears  in  the  first  coui^se  of  one  of  John 
Murreirs  Lenten  menus  (a.d.  1630.)  Giles  Rose 
served  "salats"  in  "the  entry"  of  his  banquets. 
Like  the  Romans,  also,  the  Old  English  maintained 
that  the  raw  salad  was  more  pleasant  than  diges- 
tible, some  of  their  gastronomic  authorities  even 
going  so  far  as  to  denounce  it  as  highly  prejudicial 
to  health.  John  Russell  was  one  of  these  slanderers 
of  an  especially  wholesome  diet.  In  the  "  Boke  of 
Nurture,"  he  says, 

"  beware  of  saladis,  grene  metis,  and  of  fmtes  rawe, 
for  ^ey  make  many  a  man  have  a  feeble  mawe, 
>erfore,  of  suche  fresch  lustes  set  not  an  hawe. 
For  such  wantonn  appetites  ar  not  worth  a  strawe  :'* 

a  foolish  opinion  that  reappears  in  the  prose  of 
"  The  Boke  of  Kervynge,"  which  says,  *'  Beware  of 
greene  sallettes  and  rawe  fruytes,  for  they  wyll 
make  your  sourayne  soke."  Even  Gerarde,  writing 
in  a  time  when  the  beneficial  efibct  of  salad  on  bodies 
suffering  from  the  salt  diet  of  winter  was  universally 
recognized,  advises  that  instead  of  being  "  eaten 
raw  with  vinegar,  oil,  and  a  little  salt,"  lettuce 
should  be  "  boiled,"  in  order  that  it  may  be  "  sooner 
digested,  and  nourish  more."  For  the  same  reason, 
Cogan  commends  boiled  lettuce  and  boiled  cucumber. 
Richard  the  Second*s  physicians  do  not  appear  to 
have  held  the  raw  salad  in  high  esteem;  for  the 


THE   OLD   ENGLISH    SALAD.  167 

subject  is  dismissed  in  the  "  Forme  of  Oury"  with  a 
single  receipt,  which  runs  thus  : — **  Take  parsley, 
sage,  garlic,  young  onions,  onions,  leek,  borage, 
myntes,  porrectes,  fenel,  and  cresses,  rue,  rosemary, 
purslain ;  lave  and  wash  them  clean ;  pick  them, 
pluck  them  small  with  thine  hand,  and  mix  them 
veil  with  raw  oil.  Flavour  with  vinegar  and 
salt." 

But  whilst  princes  and  lords,  with  an  abundant 
supply  of  game  and  fresh  flesh  during  the  winter, 
avoided  the  salad  as  indigestible,  the  commonalty, 
who  subsisted  chiefly  in  the  same  season  on  salted 
provisions,  learnt  from  experience  that  no  food  was 
more  quickly  remedial  of  the  eruptive  diseases  and 
other  inconveniences  that  result  from  a  diet  of 
powdered  meat,  without  fresh  vegetables.  The 
wealthy  could  afford  to  disdain  raw  leaves  as  meat 
fit  only  for  the  rabble ;  but  the  commonalty  ran  to 
green  stufl^,  and  devoured  it  with  equal  avidity  and 
thankfulness,  as  soon  as  spring  had  clothed  hill-side 
arid  hedge-row  with  the  leaves  that  were  at  the 
same  time  food  and  physic  for  the  disordered  body. 
The  salad  of  leaves  abounds  in  vestiges  of  mediaeval 
pharmacy.  Indeed,  it  was  the  old  medicine  for  the 
million,  which  they  took  daily  in  the  spring  season, 
"as  the  occasion  required,"  till  the  garden  and 
orchard  had  once  again  brought  forth  their  annual 
tribute  of  delicious  fare.    Whilst  the  herb  doctors 


L 


168  A   BOOK   ABOUT  THE   TABLE. 

prescribed  the  Spring  salad  for  the  sick,  folk-lore 
extolled  it  as  a  prevcDtive  of  disease  and  decay. 

Poetry  seized  the  dish  to  use  it  as  an  emblem  of 
yemal  freshness  and  greenness.  Shakespeare's 
Cleopatra  says : — 


**  My  salad  days. 
When  I  was  green  in  judgment. 


In  "  Airs  Well  that  Ends  Well/'  the  poet  gives  the 
following  conversation : — 

Lafeu.  Twas  a  good  lady»  'twas  a  good  lady;  we  may  pick  a 
thonsand  salads,  ere  we  light  on  such  another  herb. 

Clovm.  Indeed,  Sir,  she  was  the  sweet  marjoram  of  the  salad, 
or  rather  the  herb  of  grace. 

Lafeu.    They  are  not  salad-herbs,  yon  knave,  they  are  nose-herbs. 

Clown,  I  am  no  great  Nebuchadnezzar,  Sir,  I  have  not  much 
skill  in  grass. 

In  "  King  Henry  VI./'  Cade  says,  "  Wherefore, 
on  a  brick  wall  I  climbed  into  this  garden,  to  see  if 
I  can  eat  grass,  or  pick  a  sallet  another  while,  which 
is  not  amiss  to  cool  man's  stomach  this  hot  weather. 
And,  I  think,  this  word  sallet  was  born  to  do  me 
good ;  for  many  a  time  but  for  sallet,  my  brain-pan 
had  been  cleft  with  a  brown  bill ;  and,  many  a  time, 
when  I  have  been  dry,  and  bravely  marching,  it 
hath  served  me  instead  of  a  quart-pot  to  drink  on ; 
and  now  the  word  sallet  must  serve  me  to  feed 


on. 


Gerarde's  lists   of  garden-growths  and  simples. 


GOOD   FOB   SALADS   AND   SCURVY.  169 

good  for  salads,  comprised  : — 1.  The  Spanish  nut, 
"  a  kind  of  Floure  de  Luce."  2.  Onions.  3.  Leeks. 
4.  Chives.  5.  Garlic,  6.  Turnip-tops.  7.  Winter- 
cresses.  8.  Rocket.  9.  Tarragon.  10.  Other 
cresses.  11.  Garden  succorie.  12.  Dandelion  leaves. 
13.  Endive.  14.  Lettuces  of  the  garden.  15.  Wild 
lettuces.  16.  Beets,  leaves  and  root.  17.  Spinach. 
18.  Orach.  19.  Dock-leaves.  20.  Sorrel.  21.  Roots 
of  Rampions.  22.  Lesser  houseleeks,  or  prick- 
madams.  23.  Purslane.  24.  Sampier  leaves. 
25.  Water-cresses.  26.  Brook-lime,  or  water  pim- 
pernel. 27.  Borage.  28.  Bugloss  leaves.  29.  Hops, 
the  buds  or  first  sprouts.  30.  Garden-burnet. 
31.  Leaves  of  musk-roses.  32.  Rosemary.  Most 
of  these  materials  for  the  salad-bowl  either  had,  or 
were  believed  to  have,  medical  properties  that  made 
them  highly  salutary  in  the  Spring  season ;  and 
some  of  them  were  prescribed  separately  by  the 
herb-doctors,  as  specifics  for  certain  maladies  of 
the  stomach  and  skin.  Thus  the  cresses,  lettuce, 
brook-lime,  and  the  "  grass,"  which  takes  its  special 
name  (scurvy-grass)  from  the  disease  which  it  was 
supposed  to  cure,  are  commended  by  Elizabethan 
botanists  for  being  "  good  against  the  scurvy." 
Onions,  leeks,  and  chives  expelled  ill-humours  from 
the  system,  and  stimulated  certain  organs  that  suffer 
quickly  from  a  diet  of  salted  provisions.  Tarragon 
aided  the  medicinal  virtues  of  lettuce.     Dandelion 


170  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

leaves  quickened  the  sluggish  liver.  Spinach,  dock- 
leaves,  sorrell,  sampier  leaves,  borage  leaves,  and 
bugloss  leaves,  cooled  the  stomach.  Eampion  roots 
cured  "heat  of  the  mouth."  Lesser  house-leeks 
and  purslane  were  eflBoacious  in  grievous  affections, 
often  provoked  by  a  too  saline  diet,  deficient  in 
fresh  vegetables.  Besides  aiding  the  stomach, 
borage-flowers  and  bugloss-leaves  acted  directly  on 
the  heart,  and  caused  lightness  of  spirits.  Hop- 
buds  were  excellently  stomachic.  Garden-burnet 
"  made  the  heart  merry  and  glad.*'  Rosemary 
strengthened  the  memory.  "  Leaves  of  musk-roses, 
eaten  in  the  morning,  in  manner  of  a  sallad,  with 
oyle,  vinegar,  and  pepper,"  were  regarded  by 
Gerarde  as  a  highly  efficacious  medicine  for  certain 
kinds  of  dyspepsia. 

Taught  by  the  doctors  to  think  boiled  leaves 
more  digestible  than  raw  leaves,  our  cooks  in  the 
earlier  half  of  the  seventeenth  century  often  boiled 
their  salads ;  and  whilst  this  practice  prevailed,  a 
mess  of  boiled  green  vegetables,  such  as  a  dish  of 
spinach,  was  commonly  called  a  salad,  though  set 
scalding  hot  on  the  table.  For  instance,  John 
Murrell  (1630),  gives  the  following  directions  for 
"  Divers  Sallets  Boy  led.  Parboile  spinage,  and  chop 
it  fine,  with  the  edges  of  two  hard  trenchers  upon 
a  board  or  the  backs  of  two  choppin-knives ;  then 
set  them  on  a  chafin-dish  of  coales  with  butter  and 


BOILED   SALADS.  171 

vinegar.  Season  it  with  cinnamon,  ginger,  sugar, 
and  a  few  parboyld  currans.  Then  cut  hard  eggs 
into  quarters  to  garnish  it  withall,  and  serve  it 
upon  sippets.  So  you  may  serve  burrage,  buglass, 
endive,  suckory,  coleflowers,  corell,  marygold 
leaves,  water-cresses,  leekes,  onyons,  sparragus, 
rocket,  alexanders.  Parboyle  them  and  season 
them  all  alike ;  whether  it  be  with  oyle  and  vinegar, 
or  butter  and  vinegar,  or  cinnamon,  ginger,  sugar 
and  butter;  eggs  are  necessary,  or  at  least  very 
good  for  all  boyled  sallets."  Mallow-leaves  were 
boiled  tender  and  served  in  the  same  way.  Dishes 
of  roots,  boiled  and  buttered,  were  also  called 
Ballets.  One  reads  in  the  seventeenth  century 
cookery-books  of  sallets  of  carrots,  and  sallets  of 
buttered  parsnips.  For  "  a  sallet  of  burdock 
roots,"  John  Murrell  gives  the  following  orders, 
**  Cut  oflT  the  outward  rinde,  and  lay  them  in  water 
a  good  houre  at  the  least ;  when  you  have  done, 
seeth  them  until  they  be  tender ;  then  set  them  on 
coales  with  butter  and  vinegar,  and  so  let  them 
stand  a  pretty  while;  then  put  in  grated  bread 
and  sugar  betwixt  every  layer  and  serve  them." 
At  present,  such  a  mess  of  boiled  roots  and  bread- 
crumbs would  be  more  likely  to  be  called  a  pudding 
than  a  salad. 

Cowslip-salad,    made  of  cowslip-blossoms  mixed 
with  vinegar  and  sugar,  is  still  sometimes  eaten  by 


172  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

country-children  in  the  nursery,  as  a  relish  with 
bread-and-butter ;  but  in  Charles  the  First's  time, 
cowslips,  violets,  roses,  and  other  flowers  were 
dressed  in  the  same  way  for  the  dining-room. 

At  the  same  time  the  grand  salad  of  a  cere- 
monious banquet  was  a  medley  of  herbs,  vegetables, 
fruits  and  dried  fruits,  that  was  not  more  remark- 
able for  the  multifariousness  of  its  incrredients  than 

o 

for  the  fantastic  ingenuity  of  their  arrangement. 
"To  make  a  grand  sallet,"  says  John  Murrell, 
"  take  buds  of  al  good  hearbs,  and  a  handful  of 
French  capers,  seven  or  eight  dates  cut  in  long 
slices,  a  handful  of  raisins  of  the  sun,  the  stones 
being  pickt  out,  a  handfuU  of  almonds  blancht,  a 
handful  of  currans,  five  or  six  figs  sliced,  a  pre- 
served orange  cut  in  slices ;  mingle  al  these 
together  with  a  handful  of  sugar,  then  take  a 
faire  dishe  fit  for  a  shoulder  of  mutton,  set  a 
standarde  of  paste  in  the  midst  of  it,  put  your 
aforesaid  sallet  about  this  standarde,  set  upon  your 
sallet  four  half  lemons,  with  the  flat  ends  down- 
wards right  over  against  one  another,  half-way 
betwixt  your  standarde  and  the  dishes  side,  pricke 
in  every  one  of  these  lemons  a  branch  of  rose- 
mary, and  hang  upon  the  rosemary  preserved 
cherries,  or  cherries  fresh  from  the  tree ;  set  foure 
half-eggs,  being  roasted  hard,  between  your  lemons, 
the  flat    ends    downward,    prick  upon  your  eggs 


GRAND   SALADS.  173 

sliced  dates  and  almonds;  then  you  may  lay 
another  garnish  between  the  brim  of  the  dish  and 
the  sallet,  of  quarters  of  half  eggs,  and  round 
slices  of  lemons;  then  you  may  garnish  by  the 
brim  of  the  dish  with  a  preserved  orange,  in  long 
slices,  and  betwixt  every  slice  of  orange,  a  little 
heap  of  French  capers.  If  you  have  not  a  standard 
to  serve  in,  then  take  half  a  lemon,  and  a  fine 
branch  of  rosemary." 

Flesh  and  fish,  such  as  chicken  and  veal,  salmon 
and  lobster,  were  often  served  in  green  salads,  in 
the  middle  of  the  seventeenth  century.  Robert 
May  gives  receipts  for  several  such  preparations. 
It  was  left  for  the  following  century  to  invent  the 
incomparable  dressing  Mayonnaise,  or  (to  speak 
more  correctly)  Bayonnaise,  but  the  chef  who 
composed  the  first  chicken  Mayonnaise  did  no  new 
thing,  in  combining  poulet  with  green  meat. 

Whilst  our  cooks  of  the  seventeenth  century 
made  prodigious  salads  of  balf-a-hundred  hetero- 
geneous, and  often  discordant  ingredients,  the 
chefs  of  the  continent  displayed  equal  zeal  and 
daring  in  the  same  department  of  their  art.  The 
grsmdest  of  recorded  salads  is  one  that  a  lady  pre- 
pared for  the  table  of  Jacob  Catz,  who  died  in  1660. 
A  description  of  this  fanciful  and  elaborate  per- 
formance may  be  found  in  the  writings  of  the 
Dutch  poet,  Barloeus.     But  it  may  not  be  inferred 


^ 


174  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

from  the  celebrity  thus  accorded  to  it,  that  this 
salad  differed  materially  from  the  salads  usually 
served  at  sumptuous  tables  on  grand  occasions. 
Evelyn  assures  us  that  it  in  no  way  surpassed  the 
salads  of  the  Lord  Mayor's  banquets. 

By  the  close  of  the  seventeenth  century  there  was 
need  of  an  elegant  and  scholarly  epicure  to  reduce 
to  order  the  conflicting  practices  of  salad-makers. 
An  artist,  peculiarly  qualified  for  the  difficult  task, 
appeared  in  John  Evelyn,  who  was  at  the  same  time 
a  patron  of  horticulture,  a  man  of  letters,  and  a 
fastidious  feeder.  For  the  interests  of  gastronomy, 
it  was  also  fortunate  that  Evelyn  brought  to  the 
undertaking  a  mature  judgment,  a  mind  free  from 
prejudice,  and  a  palate  that,  never  shaken  or  tor- 
pefied  by  excess,  had  attained  in  declining  age  the 
fine  sensitiveness  and  exquisite  delicacy  which  can 
afford  the  virtuous  veteran  in  gastronomy  abundant 
consolations  for  the  decay  of  other  powers. 

Evelyn's  "Acetaria*'  defined  the  modem  salad. 
Imparting  order  to  chaos,  it  furnished  the  cook  with 
intelligent  rules  and  wholesome  precepts,  and  gave 
precise  limits  to  an  art  whose  special  followers  had 
hitherto  been  the  champions  of  gastronomic  license, 
and  the  illustrators  of  gastronomic  caprice. 

Distinguishing  between  "  olera,"  vegetables  for 
the  pot,  which  should  never  be  eaten  raw,  and 
"  acetaria,"  vegetables  which  should  never  be  boiled. 


Evelyn's  greatest  work.  175 

John  Evelyn  had  the  courage  to  declare  that  to 
cook  a  salad  with  heat,  or  by  any  slow  process  of 
pickling,  was  to  deprive  it  of  the  distinguishing  at- 
tributes to  a  salad.  The  true  salad  was  a  mess  of 
raw  vegetables.  He  even  declined  to  include  among 
"  salleting,"  in  the  strictest  sense  of  the  term, 
"  apples,  pears,  abricots,  cherries,  plums,  and  other 
tree  and  ort-yard  fruit,"  though  he  admitted  that 
fruit  might  be  admitted  as  a  curious  additament, 
rather  than  as  an  ingredient,  in  salads.  The  proper 
sauce  for  the  salad  was  an  artful  mixture  of  mustard, 
oil,  and  vinegar,  with  or  without  the  addition  of 
hard-boiled  yolk  of  new-laid  eggs,  carefully  rubbed 
into  the  dressing.  One  of  the  points  on  which  the 
reformer  insisted  strongly  was  the  material  of  the 
salad-bowl.  The  cooks,  who  for  ostentation's  sake 
used  a  silver  saladier,  committed  a  blunder.  Those 
who  poured  an  acetous  dressing  into  a  pewter 
vessel  were  guilty  of  an  outrage.  The  proper 
saladier  would  always  be  of  "  porcelaine  or  of  the 
Holland  Delft-ware." 

After  the  rejection  of  vegetables  which  should  not 
be  eaten  raw,  and  of  fruits  which  should  not  be 
accounted  as  "  salleting,"  there  remained  some  hun- 
dred or  more  growths  from  which  the  salad-picker 
might  choose  his  materials.  Evelyn's  list  of  sallet- 
ing  materials  comprised  several  roots  and  wild  herbs 
never  put  in  the  salad-bowl  at  the  present  time.     It 


176  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

included:    1,  alexanders;  2,  artichokes;  3,  balm; 
4,  beet-root  alid  leaf;  5,  burnet ;  6,  blite ;  7,  borage  ; 
8,  brook-lime ;  9,  bugloss ;  10,  young  buds,  such  as  the 
buds  of  the  ash  and  broom;  11,  cabbages,  several 
species ;  12,  Spanish  artichoke ;  13,  carrots ;  14,  cher- 
vile ;  15,  chickory  ;  16,  clary ;   17,  chives ;   18,  clea- 
vers; 19, corn-sallet;  20,  cowslips;  21,  cresses,  se- 
veral species  ;    22,  cucumber ;    23,  daisies,  blossom 
and  leaves ;  24,  dandelion-leaves ;  26,  dock-leaves ; 
26,  elder,  leaves  and  flowers  ;  27,  endive ;  28,  fennel ; 
29,  several  flowers,  those,  for  instance,  of  the  gilly- 
flower, orange,  rosemary,  archangel ;  30,  garlick ; 
3 1 ,    goat's  -  beard ;     32,  hop  -  buds ;    33,    hyssop  ; 
34  ;  Jack-by- the-edge ;  35,  leeks ;  36,  lettuce,  several 
Fpecies,  ue.y  Roman,  cosse,  Silesian,  cabbage,  and 
lob;    37,   lemon-fruit;    38,    mallow;     39,    melon 
40,  mint ;  41,  mushrooms  ;  42,  mustard;  43,  nettles 
44,    Indian    nasturtium;    45,    onions;    46,   orach 
47,    orange-fruit ;   48,   parsnip ;    49,   green   peas 
50,  pepper;  51,  parsley;  52,  pimpernel;  53,  purs 
line ;  54,  radish,  root  and  leaves ;  55,  rampions 
56,  rocket ;  57,  rosemary ;  58,  sage ;  59,  samphire 
60,    scallions;     61,    scurvy  -  grass ;    62,     sellery 
63,  shallots ;  64,  skirrets ;  65,  sorrel ;  66,  sow-thistle 
67,  sparagus ;  68,  spinach  ;  69,  tansy ;  70,  tarragon 
7 1 ,  thistle  ;    72,  trick  -  madam,  or  prick  -  madam 
73,  turnip-tops ;  74,  capreoles,  tendrils,  and  claspers 
of  the  vine ;  75,  viper-grass ;  76,  wood-sorrel.     The 


A   GREAT   MISTAKE.-  177 

list  contained,  also,  tulip-bulbs,  daffodil-buds,  and 
half-a-dozen  roots  unnamed  in  this  paragraph.  It 
was  also  the  commendable  practice  of  some  house- 
wives to  sprinkle  their  salads  with  powdered  saffron 
"  for  a  noble  cordial." 

So  long  as  the  salad-picker  might  select  from  so 
many  growths  of  the  wood,  the  field,  the  rivulet,  and 
the  garden,  there  were  good  grounds  for  question- 
ing the  wisdom  of  the  proverb  which  declares  that 
a  fool  is  equal  to  a  wise  man  in  salad-picking.  To 
discredit  this  flippant  adage,  Evelyn  alludes  to  the 
dismal  tragedies  often  brought  about  by  foolish 
salad-pickers,  who  mistook  hemlock  and  aconite 
leaves  ifor  parsley  and  parsnip  leaves,  and  threw 
herbs  of  death  into  th^  pot  of  green-meat. 

But  with  all  his  knowledge  and  care  John  Evelyn 
made  some  mistakes,  and  one  prodigious  blunder. 
He  orders  us  to  wash  the  lettuce  and  other  leaves, 
which  (as  every  boy  in  the  fourth  form  at  Eton 
knows)  should  never  be  wetted  in  the  kitchen,  but 
should  be  cleaned  only  by  friction  with  a  dry  cloth 
before  they  are  cut,  or,  better  still,  broken  and 
tenderly  torn  into  the  bowl.  Walker,  "the  Ori- 
ginal," was  guilty  of  the  same  error.  .At  least,  he 
speaks  of  "  drying  the  leaves  of  the  lettuce,"  as 
though  it  were  necessary  to  wet  them  in  preparing 
a  salad. 

The  reader  of  the  "  Acetaria"  should  not  fail  to 

VOL.  ir.  N 


178  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

notice  its  directions  for  mixing  mustard,  which  show 
that  mustard  of  the  English  table  in  the  seventeenth 
century  was  made  with  vinegar,  instead  of  water, 
like  the  condiment  called  now-a-days  French  mus- 
tard. In  Evelyn*8  time  Tewkesbury,  Gloucester- 
shire, was  famous  for  its  mustard.  The  Yorkshire 
seed  was  also  highly  esteemed  in  the  market.  When 
the  mustard-powder  had  been  mixed  with  vinegar 
in  which  horse-radish  had  been  steeped,  the  pap  was 
put  into  a  small  earthen  or  glass  vessel  on  a  bed  of 
finely-minced  onion  that  gradually  flavoured  the 
whole  compound,  which  was  kept  closely  corked  till 
it  was  wanted  for  the  table. 

The  receipts  for  salad-dressing  are  innumerable, 
but  there  are  two  which  should  be  found  in  every 
new  cookery-book.  Mr.  Hay  ward's  receipt  for  salad 
and  sauce,  given  in  the  "  Art  of  Dining,"  is,  "  Rub 
with  a  fork  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  boiled  hard  and 
cold,  in  a  salad-bowl,  with  fresh  mustard  and  a  little 
salt;  four  table  spoonfuls  of  oil  to  one -and- a - 
half  of  tarragon,  mixing  it  into  a  cream.  Cut  in  the 
whites,  six  lettuces  well  blanched,  some  tarragon, 
chevril,  a  few  young  onions  and  burnet,  and  stir  it 
well.  The  sauce  should  be  kept  in  a  separate  bowl, 
and  not  be  mixed  with  the  salad,  until  the  moment 
it  is  to  be  eaten,  or  it  may  lose  its  crispness  and 
freshness." 


A   FAMOUS   RECEIPT.  179 

With    poetic    fervour    and    scientific   exactness, 
Sydney  Smith  wrote : 


"  Two  large  potatoes,  passed  through  kitchen-sieve. 
Unwonted  softness  to  the  salad  give. 
Of  mordent  mustard  add  a  single  spoon, 
Distrust  the  condiment  which  bites  too  soon ; 
But  deem  it  not,  thou  man  of  herbs,  a  fault 
To  add  a  double  quantity  of  salt. 
Three  times  the  spoon  with  oil  of  Lucca  crown, 
And  once  with  vinegar  procured  from  town. 
True  flavour  needs  it,  and  your  poet  begs. 
The  pounded  yellow  of  two  well-boil'd  eggs. 

Let  onion  atoms  lurk  within  the  bowl. 

And,  scarce  suspected,  animate  the  whole : 

And  lastly,  on  the  flavour'd  compound  toss 

A  magic  tea-spoon  of  anchovy  sauce. 

Then,  though  green  turtle  fail,  though  venison's  tough, 

And  ham  and  turkey  are  not  boiled  enough. 

Serenely  full  the  epicure  may  say  : — 

Fate  cannot  harm  me — I  have  dined  to-day." 

Blucher  told  his  soldiers,  when  firing  at  the 
enemy,  to  aim  at  the  part  of  the  body  immediately 
below  the  "  bread-basket."  By  aiming  at  his 
stomach  many  a  fair  man-hunter  has  brought  down 
the  object  of  her  pursuit.  There  still  lives  in  London 
a  prosperous  epicure  who  in  his  youth  resolved  to 
select  a  wife  from  three  damsels,  who  had  prudential 
and  other  reasons  for  wishing  to  marry  him.  His 
choice  should  be  determined  by  their  skill  in  cookery. 
He  would  induce  them  to  undergo  a  competitive 
examination  in  the  art  he  valued  above  all  others, 

N  2 


180  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

and  would  award  himself  as  a  prize  to  the  candidate 
who   should   carry   away   the   greatest   number  of 
marks.     The  young    ladies    were    staying    at   his 
mother's  house  when   he   carried  out   his   project. 
Without  revealing  the  purpose  of  his  proposal,  he 
craftily  broached  the  subject   of  cookery,  led  the 
girls  on  to  boast  of  their  prowess,  aud  eventually 
suggested    that    they    should    contend    in    making 
boiled  custards.     Each  competitor  should  have  the 
same  materials  and  opportunities   lor  doing  them 
justice.     The  proposal  being  accepted  merrily,  the 
custard  tournament  came  off  in  due  course,  each 
combatant  being   allowed    a  private   room  as  her 
peculiar  kitchen.      It  was  agreed  that  the   young 
man  and  his  mother,  acting  as  jurors,  should  decide 
on  the  merits  of  the   performances.      In  case    of 
difference  of  opinion,  they  might  invite  the  house- 
keeper to  aid  them  in   forming  a  right  judgment. 
But  there  was  no  need  for  consulting  a  third  arbiter. 
When  the  three  custards  were  produced,  Fanny's 
was  so  distinctly  best  that  the  two  jurors  did  not 
hesitate  to  proclaim   her  the  victor.     Three   days 
later  Fanny  was  engaged  to  the  youthful  epicure, 
and  three  months  later  they  were  married.     Some 
twelve  months  after  the  marriage,  it  transpired  that 
in  the  interval  between   the  agreement  for  tourna- 
ment and  the  time  for  entering   the   lists,  Fanrur 
had  procured  from  the  housekeeper  a  furtive  half- 


i 


CAUGHT   WITH   A   SALAD.  181 

pint  of  cream,  in  addition  to  the  specified  materials 
for  war.  The  cream  cost  Fanny  two  sovereigns 
that  were  well  invested.  In  justice  to  her,  it  should 
be  said  she  has  made  her  victim  an  excellent  wife, 
and  was  heard  only  the  other  day  to  declare,  **  My 
dear  girls  are  all  that  I  desire.  They  are  clever, 
lively,  lovely,  and  of  the  sweetest  temper.  But 
what  is  to  me  far  more  important,  they  are  incapable 
of  artifice.'^ 

In  his  "  Table  Traits,"  Dr.  Doran  mentions  a 
lady  who  made  her  game  at  the  matrimonial  table 
with  a  salad,  picked  and  mixed  by  her  own  hands 
so  artistically,  that  it  caused  a  learned  judge  to 
kneel  at  her  feet.  Ere  long  the  poor  gentleman 
had  reason  to  repent  his  choice,  and  to  applaud  the 
wisdom  of  the  proverb  which  declares  any  fool  a 
competent  salad-maker.  The  lady  was  a  fool  with 
a  querulous  temper,  and  speedily  showed  herself 
as  apt  at  picking  a  quarrel  as  a  salad.  She  fretted 
and  tormented  her  lord  in  the  good  old  days,  when 
law-courts  instead  of  closing  at  four  o'clock  often 
sat  till  late  evening;  and  this  judge  with  an  unat- 
tractive home  was  noted  for  the  dehght  he  took  in 
doing  his  duty  by  night  as  well  as  by  day.  To 
counsel  or  jury,  who  muttered  aught  of  the  lateness 
of  the  hour  and  of  their  engagements  elsewhere,  he 
used  to  say  mournfully,  "  Gentlemen,  as  we  must 


182  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THB  TABLE. 

be  somewhere,  we  cannot  be  better  anywhere  than 
•we  are  here." 

The  success  of  this  unworthy  dame  may  be 
matched  with  that  of  the  "  gentleman  salad-maker,'* 
whose  story  is  told  with  charming  sprightliness  by 
Brillat-Savarin.  In  the  evil  days  of  the  great 
French  Revolution,  the  Chevalier  d'Albignac  es- 
caped from  Paris  to  George  the  Third's  London, 
where  he  subsisted  painfully,  if  not  miserably,  on 
a  small  pittance  allowed  him  by  the  English  Govern- 
ment, until  accident  afforded  him  a  field  for  the 
profitable  exercise  of  the  only  art  which  he  could 
turn  to  money.  The  Chevalier  was  dining  in  the 
coffee-room  of  a  fashionable  hotel,  to  which  he  bad 
been  invited  by  an  affluent  friend,  when  a  young 
English  nobleman,  who  was  dining  with  another 
party  in  the  same  room,  entreated  him  courteously 
to  mix  a  salad  in  the  French  fashion.  The  request 
was  made  so  politely  that  M.  d'Albignac  consented, 
and  of  course  he  executed  the  task  in  a  manner 
that  elicited  enthusiastic  commendations.  His 
complaisance  and  communicativeness  to  the  young 
nobleman  had  agreeable  results.  The  salad-maker 
took  a  fat  fee  (£5)  for  his  services,  and  shortly 
afterwards  he  received  from  the  lord  of  a  great 
house  in  Grosvenor  Square  an  entreaty  that  he 
would  visit  the  mansion  at  a  certain  hour,  to  make 
another    salad    for    an    epicurean    company.      M. 


THE    GENTLEMAN   SALAD-MAERE,  183 

d'Albignac  had  the  good  sense  to  accept  the  offer, 
which  during  the  next  week  was  followed  by  similar 
applications.  His  marvellous  salads  were  soon  the 
talk  of  the  town,  their  fame  being  accompanied 
with  romantic  exaggerations  of  the  misfortunes 
which  had  befallen  him  through  the  execrable 
revolution.  The  *' gentleman  salad-maker"  was 
the  hero  of  the  hour,  and  ladies  of  the  highest 
fashion  were  heard  rapturously  commending  his 
"  works"  in  gilded  salons,  or  avowing  that  they 
could  not  live  another  week  without  devourin<y 
one  of  them.  "  *  I  die  for  it,*  "  says  Brillat-Savarin, 
"  c'est  Texpression  consacr^e. 


D^sir  de  nonne  est  nn  fen  qui  d^vore, 
D^sir  d'Anglaise  est  cent  fois  pire  encore.' 


Seizing  every  opportunity  to  satisfy  his  admirers 
and  win  new  clients,  M.  d'Albignac  started  his 
carriage  in  order  that  he  might  pass  quickly  from 
house  to  house  during  the  dining  hours  of  the 
aristocracy.  Yet  further,  opening  a  shop  for  the 
accommodation  of  the  many  epicures  who  lived 
beyond  the  boundary  of  his  quarter  for  personal 
attendances,  or  who  could  not  afford  to  pay  his 
fee  for  a  visit,  he  drove  a  lucrative  trade  in  sauces, 
spices,  and  other  culinary  dainties.  A  few  years 
spent  in  this  beneficent  activity,  enabled  the 
Chevalier  to  return  with  a  fortune  of  80,000  francs 


184  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

to  his  native  land,  where  he  purchased  a  pleasant 
house  at  Limousin  for  20,000  francs,  and  invested 
the  rest  of  his  naoney  in  government  securities^ 
which  stood  just  then  at  50  per  cent. 

Brillat.  Savarin  mentions  other  Frenchmen  of 
gentle  lineage  and  culture,  who,  in  the  same  period 
of  public  troubles  and  private  embarrassments, 
armed  themselves  with  spit  and  stew-pan,  and 
conquered  adversity  with  the  weapons  of  cookery. 
Whilst  M.  d'Albignac  made  salads  in  London,  a 
nobleman  of  Brittany  flourished  as  a  pastrycook  at 
Cologne,  and  le  capitaine  Collet  acquired  riches  by 
making  ices  for  the  people  of  New  York.  Brillat- 
Savarin  himself  condescended  to  practise  the 
•*  generous  art"  at  Boston,  where  in  the  time  of 
his  Transatlantic  exile  he  imparted  to  Julien,  the 
restaurateur,  the  secret  of  making  "des  ceufs 
brouill^s  au  fromage."  Julien,  by  the  way,  was  a 
political  emigre,  who  had  been  chef  to  the  Arch- 
bishop of  Bordeaux  before  he  established  himself 
in  the  United  States.  Gastronomic  art  was  affected 
in  a  remarkable  manner  by  the  great  revolution, 
which  compelled  the  chefs  of  the  shattered  noblesse 
to  open  a  new  class  of  restaurants  for  the  Parisian 
commonalty,  and  imparted  their  mysteries  to  every 
civilized  nation. 


185 


CHAPTER  IX. 

EGGS. 

"  Eggs  were  held  by  the  Egyptians  as  a  sacred  emblem  of  the 
renovation  of  mankind  after  the  Deluge.  The  Jews  adopted  it  to 
suit  the  circumstances  of  their  history,  as  a  type  of  their  departure 
from  the  land  of  Egypt,  and  it  was  used  in  the  feast  of  the  Passover 
as  part  of  the  furniture  of  the  table,  with  the  Paschal  Lamb.  The 
Christians  have  certainly  used  it  on  this  day,  as  containing  the 
elements  of  future  life,  for  an  emblem  of  the  resurrection." — Hutch- 
inson's "  History  of  Northumberland." 

"Bless,    0,  Lord!   we  beseech  thee,  this  thy  creature  of  eggs, 
that  it  may  be  a  whole  sustenance  to  thy  faithful  servants,  eating 
it  m  thankfulness  to  thee,  on  account  of  the  resurrection."— Paul 
THE  Fifth's  **Eitual  for  England,  Ireland,  and  Scotland." 
"  Humpty  Dumpty  sate  on  a  wall 
Humpty  Dumpty  had  a  great  fall. 
All  the  king's  hordes  and  all  the  king's  men. 
Could  not  put  Humpty  Dumpty  together  again." 

Nursery  Rhymes. 

AB  ovo  usque  ad  mala.  The  Eoman  practice 
was  to  open  a  repast  with  eggs ;  but  at  the 
English  table  it  has  been  usual  to  serve  them  in 
later  stages  of  the  meal.  **  In  modern  entertain- 
ments," says  the  "  Tabella  Cibaria,"  "  they  gener- 
ally come  in  the  rear."  The  modern  epicure,  there- 
fore, will  not  condemn  the  arrangement  which 
postponed  the  special  consideration  of  eggs  till 
matters  of  greater  weight    and   moment,    though 


186  A  BOOK  ABODT  THE   TABLE. 

scarcely  of  greater  delicacy,  should  have  been  dis- 
cussed. Anyhow,  to  speak  of  eggs  is  a  duty  that 
had  better  be  done  late  than  never. 

The  man  would  be  rash  who  should  venture  to 
state  precisely  in  how  many  different  ways  eggs 
may  be  cooked.  Possibly  it  is  true  that  the  number 
of  those  diverse  processes  equals  the  number  of 
days  in  the  years.  Some  readers  of  this  page  have 
probably  perused  the  little  book,  in  which  a  lady 
of  title  not  long  since  gave  directions  for  cooking 
eggs  in  a  hundred  diflFerent  fashions.  Whilst  re- 
cognizing its  merits,  the  critics  concurred  in 
declaring  that  some  of  the  best  methods  of  pre- 
paring eggs  were  not  described  in  the  treatise. 
The  housewife,  with  a  clear  memory  of  the  hundred 
ways,  and  with  sufficient  skill  for  their  execution, 
may,  however,  deem  herself  sufficiently  instructed 
and  expert  in  a  single  department  of  culinary  art. 
In  his  orders  "  To  Dress  Eggs  Divers  Ways  For 
Fasting  Days,  All  The  Year  Round,'*  Giles  Rose 
gives  no  more  than  sixty-five  distinct  receipts.  If 
sixty-five  were  enough  for  Charles  the  Second's 
chef,  a  hundred  may  suffice  for  a  model  housewife 
of  the  nineteenth  century. 

The  lady  of  title  took  some  of  her  "  hundred 
ways"  from  Giles  Rose's  *'  Perfect  School  of  In- 
structions For  Officers  of  the  Mouth,"  and  one  at 
least   of  the   receipts   thus    transferred    from    the 


pobta's  marvellous  egg.  187 

"  Perfect  School "  to  the  "  Hundred  Ways,"  may 
be  found  in  the  "Magia  Naturalis"  of  Baptista 
Porta,  who  told  his  readers  what  to  do  in  order 
"That  an  egg  may  grow  bigger  than  a  Man's 
Head."  In  the  absence  of  proof  that  he  "bor- 
rowed "  the  marvellous  process  from  an  earlier 
scribe,  the  Neapolitan  sage  must  be  regarded  as 
the  originator  of  the  curious  device  which  he  set 
forth  in  Latin,  thus  Englished  by  his  translator  in 
the  Commonwealth  period  : — "  If  you  would  have 
ao  egg©  so  bigge,  there  is  an  art,  how  it  may 
cover  other  eggs  in  it,  and  be  not  known  from  a 
natural  egge.  You  shall  part  fifty  or  more  yelks 
of  eggs  and  whites,  one  from  the  other ;  mingle 
the  yelks  gently,  and  put  them  into  a  bladder,  and 
bind  it  round  as  you  can ;  put  it  into  a  pot  full  of 
water,  and  when  you  see  it  bubble,  or  when  they 
are  grown  hard,  take  them  out  and  add  the  whites 
to  them ;  so  filling  the  yelks  that  they  stand  in  the 
middle,  and  boil  them  again ;  so  shall  you  have 
an  egge  made  without  a  shell,  which  you  shall 
frame  thus.  Powder  the  white  egg-shells,  clean 
washed,  that  they  may  fly  into  fine  dust;  steep 
this  in  strong  or  distilled  vinegar,  till  they  grow 
soft ;  for  if  an  egge  be  long  in  vinegar  the  shell  will 
dissolve,  and  grow  tender,  that  it  may  be  easily 
passed  through  the  small  mouth  of  a  glass ;  when 
it  is  thrust  in  with  fair  water  it  will  come  to  its 


188  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

former  hardness,  that  you  will  wonder  at  it ;  when 
the  shells  are  dissolved  like  an  unguent,  with  a 
pencil  make  a  sh6ll  about  your  egg  that  is  boiled, 
and  let  it  harden  in  clear  water,  so  shall  you  have 
a  natural  egge."  George  the  Third  wondered  how 
the  apples  got  inside  the  dumpling.  On  seeing 
^^  ^Sfy  ^^  ^^^^  curious  manufacture,  it  would 
have  puzzled  him  far  more  to  discover  how  the 
yolks,  whites,  and  shells  of  half-a-hundred  eggs 
could  be  induced  to  unite  and  re-arrange  themselves 
so  naturally.  Baptista  Porta' s  marvellous  egg  was 
often  served  on  our  supper-tables  in  the  seven- 
teenth century,  not  so  much  as  a  "creature  for 
man's  comfort,"  as  a  curious  adornment  and 
spectacle. 

Experience  shows  that  to  boil  an  egg  is  more 
diflficult  than  mere  theorists  imagine.  Two-thirds  of 
our  hard-boiled  eggs  are  far  too  hard ;  and  of  soft- 
boiled  eggs  not  one  in  ten  is  taken  from  the  water 
at  the  happy  instant  when  all  the  white  is  fully  set, 
and  all  the  yolk  is  still  fluid.  Most  of  the  failures 
in  boiling  eggs  are  referable  to  the  inattention  or 
stupidity  of  the  cook ;  but  the  familiar  operation  is 
attended  with  difficulties  which  no  sagacity  and  care 
in  the  operator  can  always  surmount.  These  diffi- 
culties, arising  chiefly  from  the  variety  of  the  sizes 
of  eggs,  cannot  be  met  by  precise  and  inflexible  rules. 
The   "  three  minutes  in  the  boiling  water,"   which 


THE    EGYPTFAN   TRICK.  189 

are  the  right  time  for  hens'  eggs  of  ordinary  size, 
are  too  long  for  the  smaller,  and  too  short  for  the 
bio^ger  eggs  of  the  same  fowl.  The  same  objections 
apply  to  the  expedient  of  putting  eggs  in  the  water 
when  cold,  and  removing  them  from  it  directly  it 
begins  to  boil.  To  boil  eggs  is  a  nice,  if  not  an 
arduous  task,  and  a  simpleton  should  not  be  trusted 
to  execute  it,  any  more  than  he  should  be  trusted 
to  compound  a  salad.  The  perfect  egg-boiler  should 
be  able  to  see  through  the  wall  which  envelops  the 
object  of  his  address,  and  observe  what  is  going  on 
inside. 

The  peasant  who  bakes  his  egg  in  hot  wood- 
embers  piled  about  the  shell,  knows  by  a  sure  sign 
when  the  meat  is  sufficiently  cooked.  As  soon  as  a 
clear  dew-drop  exudes  from  the  shell's  top,  visible 
above  the  embers,  the  egg  is  done  to  the  perfection 
of  softness.  Ovid  alludes  to  this  ancient  and  pro- 
bably earliest  method  of  cooking  eggs  in  the  line, 


i< 


Ovaqne,  non  acri  leviter  versata  favillL" 


By  the  way  the  Egyptians  are  said  to  have  cooked 
eggs  by  whirling  them  round  in. a  sling,  till  the 
internal  commotion  affected  the  whites  and  yolks 
as  they  are  affected  by  b:;iling.  Not  long  since  a  gas- 
tronomic investigator  bought  a  sling  and  basket  of 
eggs  for  the  purpose  of  testing  the  efficacy  of  this 
process.     But  though  he  worked  away  with  a  zeal 


190  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THB  TABLE. 

worthy  of  a  good  cause,  this  slinger  of  eggs  desisted 
from  his  exertions  with  a  mean  opinion  of  the 
Egyptian  method.  Having  agitated  and,  indeed, 
cooked  himself  much  more  than  his  eggs,  he  wiped 
the  sweat  from  his  brow  and  threw  away  the  sling 
in  disgust.  The  same  inquirer  has,  however,  satisfied 
himself  that  the  author  of  the  "  Tabella  Cibaria'* 
was  justified  in  saying,  "  The  surest  mode  of  trying 
an  egg  is  to  apply  the  tip  of  the  tongue  to  the 
blunt  end  ;  if  it  feels  warm,  and  the  acute  end  cold, 
it  is  a  proof  that  no  fermentation  has  taken  place." 

The  robust  countryman  may  think  poached  eggs 
with  fried  rashers  the  best  of  all  egg-dishes,  but  the 
town-bred  epicure  will  always  prefer  the  savoury 
omelet  to  such  eggs  and  collops  as  are  still  served 
in  Northern  England  on  Collop  (or  Shrove)  Monday, 
and  were  dressed  in  olden  time  for  Oxford  scholars 
on  the  Saturday  before  Shrove  Tuesday,  at  the 
academic  Egg  Feast.  Taken  as  a  concluding  deli- 
cacy at  dinner,  the  sweet  omelet  commands  ap- 
proval, but  the  omelet  of  herbs  is  more  acceptable 
to  the  nervous  student  who  requires  a  light,  though 
sustaining  dish,  with  the  roll  and  coffee  of  his 
morning  meal.  As  practice  can  alone  enable  the 
practical  gastronomer  to  surmount,  avoid,  or  appre- 
ciate the  difficulties  of  omelet-making,  little  shall 
be  said  here  of  a  process  to  which  the  first  Napoleon 
directed  his  attention.     Palliating  with  a  pleasantry 


PBINOELY   DARING.  191 

one  of  his  disastrous  blunders  in  the  art  of  war,  the 
great  Emperor  observed,  "  You  can't  make  an 
omelet  without  breaking  eggs."  Unfortunately  the 
Emperor,  like  an  incompetent  cook,  had  broken  the 
eggs  without  making  the  omelet.  But  if  the  dish 
had  been  successful  the  artiste  would  not  have 
wasted  a  thought  on  the  materials  used  in  its  pro- 
duction. So  the  poor  eggs  were,  in  a  certain  way, 
gainers  by  the  imperial  failure. 

Two  centuries  and  more  before  the  rise  of  the 
Napoleonian  star,  another  French  hero  had  failed  in 
an  attempt  at  omelet-making.  Accompanied  by 
Gourville,  who  tells  the  story,  the  great  Conde,  in  a 
critical  hour  of  his  fortunes,  arrived  at  a  small  road- 
side tavern,  which  could  oflTer  the  campaigners  no 
better  provision  than  a  few  new-laid  eggs.  The 
only  additions  the  Prince  could  make  to  this  cheap 
fare  were  a  basket  of  bread,  a  bottle  of  wine,  some 
cheese,  and  a  few  walnuts.  Affairs  had  a  melancholy 
aspect,  but  the  exhaustion  of  their  horses  forbade 
the  Prince  and  his  attendants  to  seek  better  enter- 
tainment elsewhere.  The  hour  was  late,  the  weather 
stormy,  an<J  the  region  desolate.  For  that  night  the 
village-inn  must  be  the  home  of  the  adventurers.  To 
raise  the  drooping  spirits  of  his  party,  the  Prince 
declared  that  he,  their  chieftain,  would  for  once  be 
their  chef.  It  was  a  maxim  of  the  military  profes- 
sion that  every  soldier   ought  to  be  a  cook,   and 


192  A   BOOK    ABODT    THE   TABLE. 

surely  a  leader,  who  had  made  campaigns  with 
honour,  might  be  thought  competent  to  make  an 
omelet  without  failure.  So  the  Prince  set  to  work, 
and  with  the  help  of  the  landlady,  from  whom  he 
condescended  to  take  a  few  practical  suggestions,  he 
figured  creditably  in  his  new  employment  till  the 
moment  came  for  tossing  the  omelet  in  the  pan. 
Then  came  the  catastrophe,  probably  through  the 
operator's  excessive  confidence  and  zeal.  Tossing 
the  omelet — the  Prince  pitched  it  into  the  fire. 
A  groan  of  agony  went  up  from  the  famished  staff, 
thus  deprived  in  an  instant  of  the  food  they  sorely 
needed.  Luckily  there  were  still  eggs  enough  for 
another  essay,  and  the  Prince  had  the  discretion  to 
relinquish  an  oflSce  into  which  he  had  forced  himself 
with  excellent  intentions,  though  with  insufficient 
Experience. 

Good  for  the  body's  health  at  Easter,  as  Cogan 
assures  us,  scratcht  eggs  have  been  known  to  in- 
fluence beneficially  the  eater's  spiritual  life.  Jacques 
Barreaux,  the  song- writer,  who  needed  conversion  as 
much  as  any  Frenchman  of  his  time,  was  won  over 
to  religion  and  the  church  by  a  herb-omelet.  Like 
the  convenient  reasoner  who  argued  that,  if  a  cun- 
ning contriver  was  needful  for  the  manufacture  of  a 
watch,  the  universe,  with  all  its  wondrous  mechanism 
must  have  proceeded  from  an  all-wise  Creator, 
Jacques  Barreaux  saw  that  the  omelet,  which  he 


HISTORICAL   EBFEBENCBS.  193 

had  relished  so  keenly,  did  Dot  point  more  certainly 
to  a  cook  than  the  whole  world  to  its  Maker. 
Having  recognized  the  author  in  the  thing  of  art, 
he  went  on  to  *^  look  through  nature  up  to  nature's 
God."  Barreaux's  conversion  and  the  theologian's 
watch-trick  were  probably  in  Sydney  Smith's  mind 
when,  at  the  close  of  an  admirable  dinner  which  had 
been  unpleasantly  disturbed  by  a  young  man's 
sceptical  declamations,  he  turned  sharply  on  the 
free-talker  with  the  question,  "  And  pray,  Sir,  do 
you  believe  in  a  cook  ?" 

When  the  Asian  Sidonia  encountered  young 
Coningsby  in  a  village  ale-house,  as  the  latter  was 
on  the  point  of  sitting  down  to  a  dish  of  poached 
eggs  and  collops,  he  observed,  "  Ah  1  you  are  proud 
of  your  bacon  and  your  eggs ;  but  I  believe  in  corn 
and  wine.  They  are  our  chief  and  oldest  luxuries. 
Time  has  brought  us  substitutes,  but  how  inferior  ! 
Man  has  deified  corn  and  wine !  but  not  even  the 
Chinese  or  the  Irish  have  raised  temples  to  tea  and 
potatoes."  It  is  strange  that  Mr.  Disraeli,  whilst 
playing  thus  lightly  and  pedantically  with  facts  from 
the  history  of  food,  omitted  so  good  an  opportunity 
for  referring  to  the  sentimental  and  religious  asso- 
ciations of  the  egg.  Since  he  was  in  a  talkative, 
not  to  say  lecturing  mood,  how  well  it  would  have 
been  for  Sidonia  to  inform  his  youthful  friend  that 
the  egg  was  regarded  as  an  emblem  of  the  universe 

VOL.  II.  0 


194  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

by  the  aDcient  Gauls,  Romans,  Greeks,  Egyptians, 
Persians ;  that  the  Egyptians  made  it  a  symbol  of 
Human  Renovation  after  the  Deluge ;  and  that 
centuries  ere  the  Christians  had  accepted  their 
faith  from  a  Jew,  and  adopted  the  egg  as  an  emblem 
of  the  Resurrection,  the  "  chosen  people,"  honouring 
it  as  a  symbol  of  new  life,  had  made  it  a  type  of 
their  departure  from  slavery  in  Egypt  to  a  better 
existence  in  the  Laud  of  Promise.  Having  dealt 
epigrammatically  with  this  subject,  Sidonia  might 
also  have  heightened  Coningsby's  enjoyment  of  his 
poaches  by  remarking  lightly  that,  besides  exalting 
it  as  a  symbol  of  the  universe  pregnant  with  life, 
which  in  due  course  assumes  living  and  separate 
form,  the  Romans  used  the  egg  in  divination  for 
ascertaining  the  future  sex  of  creatures  not  yet 
born. 

When  Livia  consulted  a  fortune-teller  on  a  ques- 
tion of  delicate  and  closely  personal  interest,  she 
was  admonished  to  hatch  an  egg  by  the  warmth  of 
her  own  bosom,  and  observe  the  gender  of  the 
chicken.  If  the  egg  afforded  a  hen-chick,  Livia 
would  have  a  daughter;  if  it  yielded  a  cockling, 
she  would  have  a  boy.  Having  taken  to  her  egg^ 
Livia  hatched  a  cock-bird,  whose  appearance  was 
quickly  followed  by  a  chick  of  another  species — the 
little  Tiberius.  Of  course  Livia's  example  was 
generally  followed  by  the  matrons  of  Rome,  who. 


EGG   FEASTS.  *  195 

to  use  the  flippant  language  of  a  learned  author, 
"  like  brooding  hens,  devoted  themselves  to  the 
curious  amusement  of  gallinaceous  incubation." 

Just  as  Christians  in  widely  separated  lands  of 
Christendom  exchanged  presents  of  Easter  pace- 
eggs,  in  token  of  their  faith  in  the  doctrine  of  the 
Resurrection,  the  old  Romans  used,  at  the  opening 
of  a  new  year,  to  give  and  take  eggs  in  memory  of 
Castor  and  Pollux,  and  in  sign  of  their  gladness  at 
entering,  if  not  a  new  existence,  anew  cycle  of  time. 
Prohibited  during  Lent  to  the  devout,  eggs  were 
served  at  the  English  table  in  half-a-hundred  differ- 
ent fashions,  during  our  Catholic  period,  on  the 
termination  of  that  austere  season.  If  the  scarcity 
of  eggs  during  the  earlier  weeks  of  Lent  may  have 
disposed  our  ancestors  to  observe  scrupulously  the 
Church's  orders  for  abstaining  from  them,  it  cannot, 
on  the  other  hand,  be  questioned  that  the  increasing 
cheapness  of  eggs  after  Lent  was  not  less  effective 
than  religious  sentiment  in  making  Easter-tide  a 
universal  egg-festival.  Neither  of  the  influences 
which  concurred  to  render  the  old  eo;g  holidays 
popular  with  all  classes  should  be  lost  sight  of. 
Whilst  the  mediaeval  worldlings  devoured  their 
Easter  eggs  eagerly,  if  not  scandalously,  because 
they  were  good  and  cheap,  and  "  permitted,"  devout 
women  thought   seriously  and    gratefully   of   the 

0  2 


196  A    BOOK   ABOUT  THE  TABLE, 

future  life,  typified  by  the  pace-eggs,   which  they 
gave  to  their  children  and  nearest  friends. 

Of  the  decorations  of  the  pace-eggs  it  is  needless 
to  speak  at  length.  Every  one  knows  how  they 
were  coloured  on  the  shell  with  various  dyes,  or 
covered  with  gilding ;  how  some  were  speckled  with 
dots  of  white,  or  were  curiously  inscribed  with 
letters,  legends,  or  simple  pictures;  and  how  the 
practice  of  exchanging  gifts  of  these  emblematical 
eggs  at  Easter  gave  rise  to  half-a-score  sportive 
usages  whose  vestiges  may  still  be  found  in  our 
rural  hfe.  Every  Easter,  during  the  time  of  Louis 
the  Fifteenth,  eggs  thus  embellished  used  to  be 
piled  in  high  pyramids  on  the  royal  table  at 
Versailles ;  and  when  the  King  had  surveyed  the 
piles  of  toys,  he  used  to  distribute  them  amongst 
his  courtiers. 


197 


CHAPTER  X. 

DESSERT. 

'*  'Tis  the  dessert  that  graces  all  the  feast, 
For  an  ill  end  disparages  the  rest ; 
A  thousand  things  well  done,  and  one  forgot, 
Defaces  obligation  with  a  blot." 

Dr.  King's  "  Art  op  Cookery.' 

**  Un  dessert  sans  fromage  est  une  belle  a  qui  il  manque  un  ceil.*' — 
Brillat-Savarin's  **  Aphorisms." 

M.  de  B said  to  a  capitalist,  I  dined  the  other  day  with  a 

poet  who  regaled  us  at  dessert  with  an  excellent  epigram.  Croesus, 
alike  ignorant  and  greedy,  instantly  sent  for  his  cook  and  demanded 
of  him,  "  How  comes  it  that  yon  have  never  given  me  any  epigrams 
to  eat  ?" — Anecdotes  of  the  Table. 

THE  reader  doubtless  remembers  that  whilst  they 
often  opened  their  banquets  with  a  light  and 
appetizing  "  prelude "  to  the  first  proper  course, 
it  was  no  less  usual  with  the  old  English  to  close 
their  feasts  with  a  service  of  trivial  dainties  that 
was  not  regarded  as  a  regular  course.  Brawn, 
salad,  bread  and  wine  were  the  most  common 
**  creatures  "  of  the  prelude.  Hippocras  (the  mediaa- 
val  liqueur),  wafers,  fruits,  creams,  and  cheese  were 
the  culinary  materials  of  the  after-course,  set  upon 
the  board  as  the  guests  were  on  the  point  of 
retiring. 


198  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE, 

This  after-bourse — "  voider/*  as  it  was  also  termed 
in  FlantageDet  and  Tudor  times — was  styled  "  The 
Issue  of  the  Table,"  or  more  briefly  "  the  Issue,"  by 
our  best  chefs  of  the  seventeenth  century.  Giles  Rose 
always  designated  it  by  the  one  or  the  other  of  these 
expressive  terms  ;  but  Giles  Rose  lived  to  hear  a  new 
name  for  **  The  Issue."  Skinner,  the  philologist,  who 
died  in  1667  in  the  forty-fourth  year  of  his  age,  speaks 
of  "  dessert "  (from  the  Latin  deservire)  as  a  word 
newly  invented  for  the  after-course  of  superfluous 
delicacies,  served  on  the  removal  of  the  last  of  the  ser- 
vices. Commending  itself  to  the  scholar  no  less 
quickly  than  to  the  epicure,  the  new  term  passed  from 
table-talk  to  literature.  "  We  shall,"  wrote  the  third 
Lord  Shaftesbury,  '*  to  make  amends,  endeavour 
afterwards  in  our  following  miscellany  to  entertain 
him  again  with  more  cheerful  fare,  and  afford  him 
a  dessert  to  rectify  his  palate,  and  leave  his  mouth 
at  last  in  good  relish." 

"  Issue  "  went  out  of  use,  even  as  "  voider  "  and 
**  af tercourse  "  had  become  obsolete  in  previous 
times ;  and  from  the  opening  of  the  eighteenth 
century  the  elegant  "  finish  "  of  the  English  dinner 
has  always  been  called  "  the  dessert." 

Though  not  invariably  put  on  the  table,  cheese 
was  seldom  absent  from  the  olden  desserts,  for  it 
was  believed  to  help  digestion,  and  was  eaten — as 
it  still  continues  to  be  eaten  by  unscientific  feeders 


CHEESE   AT   DESSERT.  199 

■ 

— at  the  close  of  a  hearty  meal,  as  an  agreeable 
remedy  for  the  ill  effects  of  indulgence.  "After 
cheese  comes  nothing,"  is  an  old  table-proverb. 
Whilst  condemning  curds  as  unwholesome,  John 
Eussell  extolled  the  medicinal  eflBcacy  of  cheese. 
Together  with  costlier  and  more  elaborate  desserts 
for  higher  folk,  the  same  author,  ordering  the 
franklin's  aftercourse,  says, 


9f 


"  Then  appnls  and  peres  with  spices  delicately. 
After  >e  terme  of  >e  yere  fulle  deynteithly, 

With  brede  and  chese  to  calle, 
Spised  cakes  and  wafurs  worthily 
With  bragot  and  methe,  J>as  men  may  meryly 

Plese  welle  both  gret  and  smalle." 

The   children   of    Seager's   "  Schoole   of  Vertue 
(1557)  are  ordered  to  set  a  similar  dessert  before 
their  parents, 

**  Then  cheese  with  fruite,  on  the  table  set, 
With  bisketes  or  caroways,  as  you  may  get. 
Wyne  to  them  fyll,  els  ale  or  beare, 
But  wy ne  is  metes t,  if  any  there  were." 


Though  cheese  seldom  appeared  in  Giles  Rose's 
desserts,  the  practice  of  serving  cheese  with  fruits, 
au  naturel^  or  in  tarts,  was  not  relinquished  at  the 
most  modish  tables  of  the  seventeenth  century. 
The  practice  of  eating  cheese  with  apple-tart,  which 
still  survives  amongst  the  old-fashioned  gentle-folk 
of  Lancashire  and   other  provinces,  originated   in 


200  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

tiToes  when  fruit  was  seldom  served  at  the  English 
table  without  the  accompaniment  of  cheese. 

The  modern  dessert,  by  the  way,  always  compre- 
hends cheese  in  some  form,  though  the  division  of 
the  true  after-course  into  two  parts  causes  manj 
persons  to  regard  the  cheese  as  part  of  the  play 
rather  than  a  feature  of  the  epilogue.  This  division 
of  the  dessert  resulted  from  the  introduction  of  the 
mahogany  table,  which  disposed  epicures  to  banish 
the  cloth  on  the  removal  of  the  last  course,  in  order 
that  they  might  see  the  reflections  of  the  glass  and 
fruits  on  the  highly-polished  surface  of  the  hard 
wood.  On  this  innovation  in  the  ordering  of  feasts, 
it  was  decided  to  dismiss  the  cheese  before  the 
removal  of  the  cloth,  as  a  "  creature  "  which  would 
not  add  to  the  lustre  and  beauty  of  the  aftercourse 
to  which  it  belonged.  Writing  in  the  mahogany 
period — when  the  new  wood  of  warm  colour  and 
mirror-like  brilliance  made  entertainers  especially 
studious  of  display  in  the  aftercourse,  and  was  daily 
eliciting  new  contrivances  for  its  embellishment, — 
Dr.  King,  in  "  The  Art  of  Oookery,"  gives  us  a 
dessert  without  cheese. 

*'  Make  your  transparent  sweet-meats  truly  nice. 
With  Indian  sugar  and  Arabian  spice ; 
And  let  your  various  creams  encircVd  be 
With  swelling  fruit  just  ravished  from  the  tree. 
Let  plates  and  dishes  be  from  China  brought, 
With  lively  paint  and  earth  transparent  wrought. 


201 


BEWARE   OF  JONCATB. 

The  feast  now  done,  discourses  are  renewed, 
And  witty  arguments  with  mirth  pursu'd ; 
The  cheerful  master  mid  his  jovial  friends, 
His  glass  to  their  best  wishes  recommends. 
The  grace-cup  follows  to  his  sovereign's  health. 
And  to  his  country  plenty,  peace  and  wealth. 
Performing  then  the  piety  of  grace, 
Each  man  that  pleases  reassumes  his  place." 

When  these  lines  were  first  written,  it  was  a  ques- 
tion with  modish  entertainers  whether  creams 
should  be  served  at  the  later  dessert,  to  which  they 
were  more  disfiguring  than  ornamental,  or  should 
be  taken  with  the  cheese  at  the  earlier  dessert. 

One  of  Brillat-Savarin's  aphorisms  declares  that 
a  dessert  without  cheese  resembles  a  lovely  woman 
who  wants  an  eye.  A  French  writer  tells  a  story 
of  a  Gascon  who,  seeing  a  lovely  Roquefort  cheese 
at  dessert,  exclaimed,  "  Ah !  it  is  superb ;  where 
shall  I  make  the  first  cut  ?'*  And  then,  turning  to 
his  servant,  added,  "  Take  that  cheese  home ;  it  is 
there  that  I  will  make  the  first  cut." 

In  connexion  with  the  creams  of  the  Old  English 
dessert,  it  should  be  observed  that  they  gave  us  one 
of  the  pleasantest  terms  in  our  language.  In  the 
"  Boke  of  Nurture"  we  read, 

*'  Bewar  at  eve  of  crayme  of  cowe  and  also  of  the  goote,  >au3  it  be 
too  late^ 
Of  strawberies  and  hurtilberyes,  with  the  cold  loncate, 
For  )>ese  may  marre  many  a  man  changynge  his  astate, 
But  ^iff  he  have  aftur,  hard  chese  wafurs,  with  wyne  ypocrate. 


202  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

But  though  Russell  denounced  it  as  unwholesome, 
the  populace  delighted  in  the  preparation  of  milk- 
curds,  that  derived  its  name  of  joncate  or  junket 
from  the  "junci,"  i.e.,  rushes  on  which  the  curds 
were  laid,  so  that  the  whey  left  in  them  might  run 
off  readily,  and  which,  having  thus  served  as  a 
drainer  in  the  dairy,  did  duty  afterwards  as  a  dish 
for  the  dainty  at  table.  Wherever  milk  and  festivity- 
abounded  in  Old  England  there  was  also  junket; 
and  junket  being  thus  universally  associated  with 
joviality,  our  forefathers  regarded  it  as  a  symbol  of 
social  enjoyment,  and  used  its  name  as  synonymous 
with  hilarity.  Holidays  were  called  junket-days, 
and  all  the  good  things  eaten  at  wakes  were  called 
junket-fare.  Gerarde,  in  his  "  Herbal,"  makes 
several  allusions  to  "junketting  dishes,*'  and  Giles 
Rose  points  to  the  etymology  of  the  term  when  he 
writes  of  "  cream  in  jonchee,  made  with  wild  reeds.'* 
The  West  of  England  junket  is  one  of  the  several 
milk-foods  which  still  retain  the  appellation  that, 
limited  at  first  to  curds  drained  on  rushes,  was 
eventually  extended  to  other  preparations  of  milk 
and  cream.  The  Cambridgeshire  milk-cheese,  served 
in  recent  time  on  straws  instead  of  rushes  or  rush- 
reeds,  is  another  variety  of  the  olden  junkets. 

Solomon  the  Wise  wrote,  "  As  the  cold  of  snow 
in  the  time  of  harvest,  so  is  the  faithful  messenger 
to  them  that  send  him,  for  he  refresheth  the  soul 


villafranca's  pbocess,  203 

of  his  masters" — words  even  more  applicable  to  the 
ice  of  the  modern  table  than  to  the  snow  which  tlie 
King  of  Israel  mingled  with  his  wine  in  torrid 
seasons.  Like  the  Jews  in  their  land  of  sun  and 
drought,  the  ancient  Greeks  and  Romans  were 
systematic  preservers  of  snow  for  use  in  Summer. 
This  being  so,  it  is  strange  that  the  moderns  of 
Western  Europe  did  not  sooner  follow  an  example 
which  cannot  have  been  unknown  to  their  learned 
men. 

The  first  of  modern  people  to  revive  a  practice 
which  had  been  discontinued  in  the  dark  ages,  the 
Italians  were  also  the  first  to  cool  their  drinks  by 
means  of  saltpetre  dissolved  in  water. 

To  refrigerate  water  or  wine  for  his  noble  patients, 
Blasus  Villafranca,  the  Spanish  physician  of  Rome 
in  the  middle  of  the  sixteenth  century,  used  to  em- 
ploy the  following  processes.  Having  filled  a  long- 
necked  flask  with  the  liquid  on  which  he  desired  to 
operate,  he  placed  it  in  an  open  vessel  of  cold  water, 
and  moved  it  quickly  round  in  the  same  direction 
on  its  axis.  Whilst  thus  turning  the  bottle  and 
agitating  the  water  in  which  it  was  immersed,  he 
gradually  dropped  saltpetre  into  the  water  until  it 
was  strongly  impregnated  with  the  salt.  On  being 
taken  from  the  saline  bath,  the  drink  in  the  closed 
bottle  was  cold  almost  to  freezing.  Who  discovered 
this  process  is  unknown,  but  as  Villafranca  only 


204  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

claimed  credit  for  being  the  first  to  make  it  public, 
it  may  be  presumed  that  it  was  not  his  invention. 
Probably  it  had  been  employed  by  the  more  curious 
and  skilful  of  the  Roman  doctors  for  some  time 
before  1550,  in  which  year  Villafranca  wrote  about 
the  method.  Though  the  ancient  Romans  may 
have  lowered  the  temperature  by  a  similar  use  of 
other  salts,  they  cannot  be  credited  with  originating 
Villafranca's  particular  method,  as  saltpetre  was 
unknown  to  them. 

The  next  advance  on  Villafranca' s  plan  for  pro- 
ducing coolness  was  to  mix  the  saltpetre  with  snow, 
instead  of  dissolving  it  in  water,  and  to  place  flasks 
of  selected  drinks  in  the  salted  snow.  This  step 
towards  the  familiar  process  for  manufacturing  ice 
was  probably  taken  before  the  end  of  the  sixteenth 
century.  Latinus  Tancredus  of  Naples  described 
this  method  of  converting  water  into  solid  ice  in  his 
•*De  Fame  et  Siti''  (1607),  and  Baptista  Porta, 
who  died  in  1615  at  Naples,  where  he  was  of  course 
known  to  Tancredus,  sets  forth  the  same  operation 
in  the  "  Natural  Magic,"  where  he  says,  "  I  will 
show  how  wine  may  freeze  in  glasses.  Because  the 
chief  thing  desired  at  feasts  is  that  wine,  cold  as 
ice,  may  be  drunk,  especially  in  Summer,  I  will 
teach  you  how  wine  shall  presently,  not  onely 
grow  cold,  but  freeze,  that  you  cannot  take  it  but 
by  sucking,  and  drawing  in  of  your  breath.     Put 


rOKBlDDEN   PLEASURE.  205 

"wine  into  a  vial,  and  put  a  little  water  to  it,  that  it 
may  turn  to  ice  the  sooner ;  then  cast  snow  into  a 
wooden  vessel,  and  strew  into  it  saltpetre  powdered, 
or  the  cleansing  of  saltpetre,  commonly  called 
Salazzo.  Turn  the  vial  in  the  snow,  and  it  will 
congeal  by  degrees." 

In  the  later  half  of  the  sixteenth  century,  whilst 
saltpetre  was  being  thus  turned  to  account,  the 
practice  of  preserving  snow  and  ice  for  consumption 
in  hot  weather  spread  from  Italy  to  other  States. 
In  France,  the  most  luxurious  epicures  of  Henry 
the  Third's  Court  caused  snow  to  be  placed  on  their 
tables  in  July  and  August;  and  in  the  following 
reign  this  fashion  became  more  general,  though  the 
anonymous  author  of  the  "D&cription  de  I'lsledes 
Hermaphrodites'*  exhibited  it  to  scorn,  as  an  illus- 
tration of  the  wantonness  and  effeminacy  of  the  age. 
The  satire  only  extended  and  stimulated  the  desire 
for  the  new  enjoyment.  Gallants  and  fine  ladies, 
who  had  hitherto  been  content  in  Summer  to 
slake  their  thirst  with  spring-water  and  wine  cooled 
in  the  running  rivulet,  pined  and  cried  for  drinks 
cooled  with  snow  and  saltpetre,  as  soon  as  they 
were  told  it  was  immoral  to  wish  for  them.  Having 
tried  the  frigid  water  and  iced  wines,  they  required 
that  other  beverages  should  be  treated  in  the  same 
way.  The  confectioners  of  Paris  were  not  slow  to 
obey  the  order.  They  iced  fresh  fruits — peaches,  apri- 


206  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

cots,  pears,  grapes.  They  produced  drinking  vessels 
of  ice,  by  congealing  water  between  two  moulding- 
cups,  the  one  put  inside  the  other.  And  havinof 
invented  lemonade,  somewhere  about  the  year  1630, 
they  iced  it  before  giving  it  to  their  customers. 
They  treated  half-a-score  other  syrup  beverages  in 
the  same  manner.  Thirty  years  later,  not  content 
with  refrigerating  these  drinks,  they  converted  them 
to  ice,  i.e.,  the  "  water-ice"  that  is  served  profusely  at 
our  tables  in  hot  weather.  The  first  "  water-ices" 
were  manufactured  by  Procope  Conteaux,  the 
Florentine,  who,  settling  in  Paris  in  the  latter  half 
of  the  seventeenth  century,  founded  the  famous 
Caf6  Procope,  which  still  exists,  and  quickly  became 
the  most  fashionable  caterer  of  ices,  syrup-drinks, 
coffee,  and  sweetmeats  in  that  capital.  Procope's 
customers,  however,  regarding  his  ices  as  luxuries 
for  the  Summer,  seldom  or  never  ate  them  in  the 
other  seasons.  The  famous  Procope's  successor, 
Dubuisson,  was  the  first  confectioner  to  sell  ices  in 
Paris  all  the  year  round.  Cream-ice,  or  butter-ice, 
as  it  was  originally  designated, '  was  a  much  later 
invention  than  water-ice.  It  is  on  record  that  the 
first  cream-ice  was  set  before  the  Due  de  Chartres 
in  1 774  by  a  Parisian  artiste,  who  had  depicted  the 
duke's  arms  on  the  refreshing  material. 

While  the   frivolous  voluptuaries  of  Paris  were 
running   wild  about  iced   drinks,  iced  fruits,  and 


Barclay's  "argents."  207 

water-ices,  in  the  earlier  half  of  the  seventeenth 
century,  the  English  epicures  knew  little  or  nothing 
of  these  novelties  by  experience.  A  few  of  our 
travelling  countrymen  may  have  **  tried  the  ice " 
at  Parisian  tables.  A  large  number  of  scholarly 
EngHshraen  had  read  in  the  Fifth  Book  of  John 
Barclay's  "  Argenis "  how  Juba  entertained  his 
guest,  Arsidas,  under  an  African  sun,  with  cool 
drinks  served  in  glacial  vases,  and  fruits  cold  as 
block-ice.  And  to  most  of  the  readers  of  the  Latin 
romance  it  was  known  that,  instead  of  being 
creatures  of  the  author's  fancy,  he  had  often 
seen  and  taken  these  refreshments  at  the  tables  of 
Parisian  and  Italian  epicures.  But  Barclay,  who 
died  in  1621,  had  been  many  years  in  his  grave 
before  water-ices  and  refrigerated  drinks  were 
served  at  the  banquets  of  our  highest  nobility.  Lord 
Bacon  mentions  congelation  by  means  of  snow  and 
saltpetre ;  but  his  interest  in  the  novel  process  is 
purely  scientific,  and  he  gives  no  hint  that  the 
invention  was  of  any  concern  to  gastronomers.  The 
seventeenth  century  cookery-books  are  significantly 
silent  about  ices,  and  artificial  congelation.  The 
"  icing  "  of  their  receipts  is  merely  the  old  process 
for  giving  surfaces  an  icy  appearance  by  varnishing 
them  with  sugar-paste.  The  fact  is,  England,  in 
the  later  time  of  Charles  the  First  and  during  the 
Commonwealth,  was  occupied  with  weightier  and 


208  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

less  pleasant  affairs  than  questions  of  eating  which 
had  no  relation  to  party  politics.  Her  people  could 
wrangle  about  **  fat  goose  "  and  "  plum-porridge," 
or  any  other  edible  that  became  for  the  moment  a 
symbol  of  party-sentiment;  but  they  had  no  money 
to  lavish  on  new  delicacies,  when  they  were  melting 
their  plate  to  buy  arms,  or  groaning  under  the 
exactions  of  a  rigorous  government.  The  "  generous 
art,"  as  Robert  May  bears  witness,  vanished 
during  our  civil  troubles,  and  it  was  not  revived, 
with  ices  from  the  continent,  till  the  season  of 
universal  restoration  had  arrived. 

On  their  return  from  exile,  the  Cavaliers  imported 
to  England  a  taste  for  Parisian  costume,  manners, 
and  luxury.  From  the  French  Court  they  brought 
the  French  wig,  some  of  whose  ludicrous  varieties 
are  still  worn  by  our  lawyers  in  Westminster  Hall. 
They  introduced  French  modes  of  exchanging 
salutes  and  pledging  healths.  They  were  followed 
by  French  cooks  and  confectioners,  who  substituted 
cutlets  (costelets)  for  chops,  and  taught  our  sugar- 
manufacturers  to  make  the  "  sucre  brul^,"  a  term 
quickly  corrupted  by  our  populace  to  "  barley- 
sugar,"  the  "  sucre-d'orge "  of  the  later  French 
sugar-boilers,  who,  after  losing  for  many  years  one 
ot  their  ancestors'  processes,  recovered  it  under  a 
new  name  from  our  manufacturers.  To  gratify 
the  foreign  tastes  which  their  patrons  had  acquired 


THE   NEW    ICE-HOUSE.  209 

in  exile,  these  same  dealers  in  dainties  sold  water- 
ices. 

At  the  same  time  our  royal  persons  and  wealthiest 
nobles  began  to  store  ice  in  Winter  for  consumption 
in  the  Summer.  Charles  the  Second  constructed  in 
St.  James's  Park  an  ice-house,  which  was  deemed  so 
notable  and  curious  a  contrivance  that  Waller  made 
particular  mention  of  it  in  his  poem  On  St. 
James's  Park,  as  Lately  Improved  By  His  Majesty, 

"  Sucb  varioas  ways  the  spacious  alleys  lead. 
My  doubtful  muse  knows  not  what  path  to  tread. 
Yonder  the  harvest  of  cold  months  laid  up, 
Gives  a  fresh  coolness  to  the  royal  cup, 
There  Ice,  like  crystal,  firm  and  never  lost, 
Tempers  hot  July  with  December's  frost; 
Winter's  dark  prison,  whence  ho  cannot  fly, 
Tho'  warm  the  Spring,  his  enemy,  draws  nigh; 
Strange !  what  extremes  should  thus  preserve  the  snow. 
High  on  the  Alps  or  in  deep  caves  below." 

In  the  following  century  the  practice  of  pre- 
serving ice  became  more  general,  till,  at  the  com- 
mencement of  George  the  Third's  reign,  water-ices 
were  sold  by  all  the  fashionable  confectioners  of 
London,  and  it  was  rare  to  find  a  country-house 
without  adequate  provision  for  "tempering  July 
with  December's  frost."  Towards  the  close  of  the 
same  age  cream-ice  was  also  served  commonly  at 
our  most  luxurious  tables  soon  after  its  invention 
in  Paris.     Half-a-century  later  we  began  to  import 

VOL.  II.  P 


210  A  BOOK  ABOCT  THE  TABLE. 

ice  in  large  quantities  from  America,  and  at  a  yet 
more  recent  date  from  Norway,     The  popularity  of 
Wenham  Lake  Tee  afforded   an  opportunity  for  a 
jest  to   Albert   Smith,  who   insisted   that  its  sale 
should  be  restrained  by  a  statute  against  chemical 
poisons   and   other  wenemous  productions.     When 
Albert   uttered   this   harmless   pleasantry,   ice,  no 
longer    the    special    luxury .  of   the    affluent    and 
fastidious,  had  become  a  popular  refreshment,  sold 
for    a    few    pence    at    every    pastrycook's    shop, 
and  served  at  Islington  no  less  liberally  than  in 
Mayfair.     In    this    latest    stage   of   its    story,    it 
resembled  the  junket  of  old  time  in  being  accepted 
as   a   symbol  of    festivity.     When   Mr.    Chisholm 
Anstey's  copious  and  acrid  eloquence  against  Lord 
Palmerston  had  been  abruptly   stayed   by   an  in- 
vitation to  Cambridge  House,  and  a  few  pleasant 
words  from  Lady  Palmerston,  the  silenced  orator 
was  denounced  by  an  old  colleague  for  having  "  sold 
himself  for  an  ice."     Some   readers  of  this  page 
T^^Jy  perhaps,  have  listened  with    malicious   glee 
whilst  this   sufferer  from   a  comrade's  instability 
exclaimed  at  dinner-table  or  in  drawing-room,  "  I 
have  often  heard  of  men  selling  themselves.     There 
is  nothing  new  in  that.     As  long  as  the  world  lasts, 
men  will  sell  themselves  for  rank,  title,  office.     If 
he  had  sold  himself  for  a  riband,  a  star^  a  snug  berth, 
he  would  have  only  done  like  hundreds  of  better 


PROM   lOB   TO   FRUIT.  211 

men  before  bim.  But,  Sir,  he  sold  bimself  for  an 
ice  r  Eated  at  tbe  lowest,  tbe  politican's  price  was 
not  an  ice,  but  the  pleasure  of  taking  it  in  Lady  Pal- 
merston's  drawing-room,  together  with  the  greater 
pleasure  of  being  known  to  have  taken  it  there. 

At  present,  when  London  abounds  with  penny 
ices  for  the  million,  who  take' also  their  ginger-beer 
fresh  from  the  ice-wells  of  vagrant  drink-dealers,  a 
large  proportion  of  the  inferior  ice  used  by  our 
humblest  confectioners  and  lemonadiers  is  procured 
from  the  ponds  and  canals  near  London.  And 
towards  the  close  of  a  dull,  foggy,  bitipg  day  of  a 
hard  Winter,  the  town  affords  no  sight  more  depress- 
ing to  the  nervous  invalid,  and  njore  likely  to  fill 
his  bones  with  rheumatic  pain  and  suicidal  purpose, 
than  the  spectacle  of  a  long  line  of  ice~carts, 
ice-drays,  ice-trucks,  moving  with  scarcely  per- 
ceptible progress  towards  the  suburban  cellar,  where 
each  of  the  vehicles  will  deposit  its  chilling,  dirty 
load. 

But  to  pass  from  ice  in  its  most  repellent  form 
to  the  brighter  elements  of  the  dessert,  to  fruits  of 
warm  colour,  alluring  form,  delicate  aroma,  and 
delicious  flavour. 

The  Elizabethan  table  was  not  more  plentifully 
supplied  with  vegetables  than  with  fruit.  Besides 
the  dried  fruits  which  have  been  mentioned  in  a 
previous  Chapter,  it  displayed  the  olives,  lemons, 

p  2 


^  I 


212  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

and  orancfes  of  Southern  Europe.  This  last  fruit 
was  highly  valued  by  our  Tudor  ancestors,  in  the 
days  when  it  reminded  Henry  the  Eighth's  wife  of 
the  orange-groves  of  her  native  land.  Slaking 
their  thirst  with  its  juice,  they  prized  its  peel  for 
its  stomachic  bitterness,  and  also  for  its  fragrance, 
which  was  supposed  to  counteract  noxious  smells. 
Cavendish's  splendid  picture  of  Wolsey  exhibits  hira 
superbly  clad  in  scarlet  silk  and  sables,  and  "  hold- 
ing in  his  hand  a  vet'y  fine  orange,  whereof  the 
meat  or  substances  within  was  taken  out,  and  filled 
again  with  the  part  of  a  sponge,  wherein  was  the 
vinegar  and  other  p()Xifections  against  the  pestilent 
airs,  the  which  hi  most  commonly  smelt  under 
passing  among  the,  press,  or  else  when  he  was 
pestered  with  many  suitors."  In  the  days  when 
Wolsey  thus  held  a  large  orange-skin  to  his  nose, 
as  he  rode  on  his  mule  from  chambers  to  West- 
minster Hall,  the  orange-rind  packed  with  spices 
and  wet  sponge  was  the  usual  vinaigrette  of  modish 
persons  of  either  sex. 

Cogan  gave  evidence  to  the  medicinal  virtues  of 
the  same  fragrant  peel.  "  The  rinds  of  oranges," 
he  wrote,  *'are  preserved  condite  in  sugar,  and  so 
are  the  flowers  of  the  orange-tree.  Either  of  them 
being  taken  in  little  quantity  do  greatly  comfort  a 
feeble  storaache."  Though  tincture  of  orange-peel 
siill  retains  its  place  amongst  the  stomachic  cordials 


ORANGE    CHIPS.  213 

of  our  pharmacopeia,  no  living  physician  would  re- 
commend a  dyspeptic  patient  to  seek  relief  from  his 
malady  by  eating  the  candied  rind.  In  the  seven- 
teenth century,  however,  this  sweet  and  indigestible 
preparation  was  eaten  to  cure  heart-burn  and  colic. 
In  his  "  Delightful  Daily  Exercise  for  Ladies  and 
Gentlemen"  (1621),  John  Murrell  gives  directions 
for  "  making  orange-chipps,  a  very  cordial  thing 
against  the  paine  in  the  stomach."  The  reader, 
doubtless,  remembers  how  Boswell  was  perplexed 
by  Johnson's  eccentric  practice  of  pocketing  the 
rinds  of  the  oranges  whose  meat  he  had  eaten  in 
company.  Though  Boswell  could  not  conceive  the 
object  of  this  mysterious  proceeding,  and  Johnson 
persisted  maliciously  in  refusing  to  gratify  his 
friend's  curiosity,  there  can  be  no  question  that  the 
dyspeptical  man  of  letters  pilfered  the  peelings  for 
his  stomach's  sake. 

Whilst  orange-trees  bore  blossom  and  fruit  in 
the  hot-houses  of  our  princes  and  wealthiest  nobles, 
it  was  the  practice  of  our  seventeenth-century 
ancestors  to  serve  orq^nges,  raw  or  boiled,  with 
veal,  mutton,  and  other  meats.  Oliver  Cromwell 
had  a  passion  for  loin  of  veal  sauced  with  oranges, 
and  it  is  recorded  in  the  account  of  his  wife's 
**  Court  and  Kitchen"  (1664),  that  when  oranges 
were  selling  at  fourpence  a  piece,  in  consequence 
of  his  rupture  with  Spain,  the  Protector  upbraided 


214  A    BOOK   ABOUT  THE   TABLE. 

his  lady  because  his  favourite  joint  was  set  before 
him  without  its  "  proper  sauce."  Whereupon 
Elizabeth  Cromwell,  no  less  firm  in  domestic  affairs 
than  her  husband  in  matters  of  state  policy,  de- 
clared roundly  that  till  oranges  were  cheaper  none 
should  be  seen  at  her  board.  It  was  a  pity,  she 
added,  that  her  lord  and  master  forgot  to  consult 
his  appetite  and  digestion  before  he  quarreled  with 
the  Spaniard. 

The  art  which  had  flourished  in  our  monastic 
gardens  during  the  earlier  feudal  centuries,  and  had 
suffered  cruelly  from  the  Wars  of  the  Roses,  revived 
under  the  two  latest  Henrys,  and  made  rapid  pro- 
gress in  the  days  of  Elizabeth.  Harrison  speaks  of 
the  gardens  and  orchards  of  his  period  in  terms 
which  would  alone  prove  that  their  culture  was  the 
favourite  amusement  of  his  polite  contemporaries. 
But  the  social  historian  is  only  one  of  the  several 
witnesses  to  testify  that  the  Elizabethan  was  an  age 
singularly  propitious  to  every  kind  of  horticulture. 
Whilst  Lobel  and  Gerarde  were  classifying  the 
growths  of  the  soil.  Bacon  wrote  his  essay  on 
"  Gardens,"  and  munificent  patrons  of  the  art — 
which  in  later  times  found  worthy  illustrators  in 
Cowley,  Evelyn,  Temple,  and  Walpole — were  pro- 
curing new  seeds  and  plants  from  foreign  lands  in 
both  hemispheres.  Harrison  had  seen  the  orange- 
tree  and  lemon-tree  growing  on  our  soil,  and  could 


1 


ELEZABKTHAN   GARDENERS.  215 

name  English  gardeners  who  were  tryiug  to  rear 
the  olive  in  our  northern  climate,  "  We  have  in 
like  sort,"  he  adds,  "  such  workmen  as  are  not 
onelie  excellent  in  graffing  the  natural  fruits,  but 
also  in  their  artificial  mixtures,  whereby  one  tree 
bringeth  forth  sundrie  fruits,  and  one  and  the  same 
fruit  of  divers  colours  and  tastes,  dallieing  with  it  as 
with  nature  and  hir  course,  as  if  her  whole  trade 
were  perfectlie  known  unto  them;  of  hard  fruits 
they  will  make  tender,  of  sour  sweet,  of  sweet  yet 
more  delicate,  bereeuing  also  some  of  their  kernels, 
other  of  their  cores,  and  finally  induing  them  with 
savour  of  muske,  ambre,  or  sweet  spices,  at  their 
pleasure.  Diverse  also  have  written  at  large  of 
these  several  practices,  and  some  of  them  how  to 
convert  the  kernels  of  peaches  into  almonds,  of  small 
fruit  to  make  far  greater/*  He  speaks  also  of  the 
great  improvements  made  during  the  previous 
forty  years  in  the  culture  of  the  apple,  plum,  pear, 
walnut,  and  filbert. 

Whilst  the  rich  had  the -choicer  fruits  of  their 
own  growing,  such  as  the  peach  and  apricot,  the 
nectarine  and  fig,  hot-house  grapes  and  melons, 
and  procured  from  foreign  lands  the  pomegranate 
and  the  pine,  the  Elizabethan  commonalty  had  an 
abundance  of  gooseberries  (gorse-berries),  currants, 
strawberries,  pears,  apples,  cherries,  out-door  grapes, 
damascene  (damson) ,  and  other  plums.    The  choicest 


216  A  BOOK  ABOCT  THE  TABLE. 

pears  of  Elizabethan  England  were  the  Katharine, 
the  Jeneting,  the  Royal,  the  Burgomot,  the  Quince, 
and  the  Bishop's  Pear.     By  the  way,  the  earliest  to 
ripen   of  these   pears  was  called   the   Jeneting  (a 
corrupted   form   of  June-eating),   because   in  pro- 
pitious years  it  was  eatable  before  the  end  of  June. 
For  this   reason  the   botanists  styled  it   "  pyrum 
praecoquura"  "  or  "  praecocium."     On  the  disappear- 
ance   of  this   early   pear,    its   popular  name   was 
bestowed  on  the  small  early  apple  still  called  "  the 
jeneting."     The  Bishop's  Pear,  styled   by  learned 
gardeners    Pyrum    Episcopatum,    was    known   to 
Elizabethan  populace   as   the   Bishop's  Thumb,   a 
corruption  of  episcopatum^  that  still  survives  in  our 
fruit-markets.     The  Elizabethans  had  several  other 
pears,  including  the  famous  warden,  which,,  besides 
being  made  into  pies,  was  baked  or  stewed,  and 
served  in  various  ways,  with  syrup  or  milk-custards. 
The    "  Schola  Salerni "  condemns   pears,  peaches, 
and  apples  as  apt  to  breed  melancholy,  but  Cogan 
declined  to  accept  that  opinion,  without  defending 
the  fruit  unreservedly.     "  Rested,"  he  says,  "  baked, 
stewed,  peares   are  not   unwholesome.     The  great 
peares,   which   Virgill   nameth   Gravia  Volema,  in 
English  peare-wardens,  may  be  longest  preserved." 
Whilst  the  Elizabethan  epicure  prized  the  finer 
species   of  the   cultivated  strawberry,  the  doctors 
used  strawberry-leaves  and  also  the  plant's  roots  in 


r 


MARMALADE.  217 

the  medicines.  Admitting;  that  strawberries  were 
pleasant  to  the  taste,  and  on  occasions  slightly 
beneficial  to  the  digestion,  Cogan  insisted  that  they 
were  hurtful  when  taken  in  considerable  quantities 
with  clouted  cream,  even  as  they  were  devoured  in 
the  strawberry  season  by  Oxonian  scholars  at  Botley, 
and  by  citizens  at  Islington.  "Wherefore,"  says 
he,  **  they  that  goe  from  Oxford  to  Botley,  or  from 
London  to  Islington  to  eate  cream,  make  but  a 
sleeveless  errand.'* 

Like  her  successors  of  the  present  day,  the 
Elizabethan  housewife  was  careful  to  boil  down 
fruit  with  sugar  in  Summer  and  Autumn,  and  pre- 
serve it  for  use  in  the  long  season,  when  uncooked 
fruit  would  be  scarce  or  unattainable,  and  the 
commonalty  would  be  subsisting  chiefly  on  salted 
flesh  and  bread,  without  vegetables.  Her  favourite 
"  preserve  "  was  made  of  quinces  ;  and  it  should  be 
observed  that  we  are  indebted  to  the  **  queen  of 
preserves  "  for  the  word  marmalade,  derived  from 
marmelOf  the  Portuguese  word  for  quince.  Cogan 
speaks  of  quince  marmalade  as  though  it  were 
marmalade  in  the  strict  sense  of  the  word,  and 
having  given  instructions  for  making  it  adds, 
"  After  the  same  manner  you  may  make  marmalade 
of  wardens,  peares,  apples,  medlars,  cherries,  straw- 
berries, yea,  and  of  prunes  or  damasins,  and  other 
plummes.     First  to  boyl  them  upon  a  soft  fire  with 


218  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

a  little  faire  water,  till  they  be  soft,  then  to  drawe 
them  as  ye  doe  a  tart,  after  to  boyl  them  again  with 
sufficient  sugar,  to  dash  them  with  sweet  water  and 
endore  them."  All  these  various  "  preserves  "  or 
"jams,"  as  they  are  now-a-days  called,  were 
covered  in  Elizabethan  England  by  the  word  "mar- 
malade," which  at  present  is  applied  only  to  such 
preserves  as  are  made,  or  are  believed  to  be  made, 
of  lemon-rind  or  orange-peel  boiled  with  sugar.  It 
is  needful  to  speak  thus  cautiously  of  the  marmalade 
of  commerce;  because  the  omni-present  Dundee 
marmalade  contains  a  large  proportion  of  boiled 
carrot,  a  vegetable  whose  sweetness  spares  the 
manufacturer's  sugar-barrel,  and  whose  mild  flavour 
is  lost  in  that  of  almost  any  fruit  with  which  it  is 
combined.  A  very  palatable  carrot  marmalade  may 
be  made  of  boiled  carrots,  mashed  and  seasoned 
with  a  little  lemon -peel  and  lemon-juice. 

Becent  horticulture  having  brought  fruit  to  the 
highest  attainable  degree  of  excellence,  and  the 
competition  of  dealers  in  garden-delicacies  having 
placed  its  choicest  kinds  within  the  daily  reach  of 
fairly  affluent  epicures,  the  modern  goui-met  has 
become  of  late  very  particular,  not  to  say  fanciful 
and  exacting,  with  regard  to  the  quality  of  his  fruits. 
Devouring  them  gustfully  when  they  are  of  super-^ 
lative  excellence,  he  cannot  relish  them  highly  when 
they  are  only  excellent.     Indifferent  to  the  fairly 


A  TIMELY   OPPEEING.  219 

good,  he  rejects  disdainfully  those  that  are  distinctly 
deficient  in  texture  or  flavour.  Brillat-Savarin 
tells  a  story  of  a  deep  drinker  who,  declining  to 
take  some  proffered  grapes,  exclaimed  angrily,  *'  I 
thank  you  ;  it  is  not  my  custom  to  take  my  wine  in 
pills."  The  fastidious  epicure,  with  no  preference 
for  grapes  in  "  daughts,"  is  apt  to  be  intolerant  of 
any  that  fall  beneath  the  highest  standard  of 
perfection. 

M.  Petit-Radel,  the  chief  librarian  of  the  French 
InstUut,  and  sworn  degustator  of  fruit  to  Louis  the 
Eighteenth,  was  an  epicure  with  a  taste  so  critical 
and  exacting,  that  it  was  seldom  completely  gratified 
with  the  admirable  grapes,  nectarines,  peaches, 
brought  to  his  judicial  palate  by  the  chief  gardeners 
of  the  Parisian  suburbs.  On  one  occasion,  however, 
he  was  stirred  to  enthusiasm.  He  was  sitting  over 
an  ancient  manuscript  in  his  official  study,  when  he 
heard  the  sound  of  voices  outside  the  door.  A  few 
seconds  later,  the  door  was  opened,  so  that  an  out- 
stretched hand  could  exhibit  to  his  gaze  an  un- 
covered basket,  holding  four  superb  peaches.  It 
was  in  the  middle  of  a  scorching  day,  and  the 
librarian's  appetite  for  refreshment  rose  at  the 
delicious  spectacle.  "  Enter,  enter/*  lie  ejaculated 
mildly.  The  owner  of  the  hand  and  fruit,  a  famous 
market-gardener,  having  obeyed  the  invitation,  M. 
Badel  rose,  and  without  speaking,  seated  himself  in 


220  A  BOOK  ABODT  THE  TABLE. 

an  easy  chair,  his  legs  crossed,  his  hands  put 
together  prayerfully,  his  countenance  exhibiting  at 
the  same  time  curiosity,  doubt,  and  hope.  Cutting 
one  of  the  specimen  peaches  in  four  with  a  silver 
knife,  the  gardener  maintained  silence  until,  after 
fixing  one  of  the  quarters  on  the  end  of  his  weapon, 
he  had  noiselessly  approached  the  scholar.  "  Taste 
the  water,"  he  observed  in  a  tone  of  entreaty,  as 
he  put  the  delicious  morsel  between  the  epicure's 
lips.  Closing  his  eyes,  M.  Petit-Radel  was  silent  for 
two  or  three  minutes,  during  which  the  artiste 
regarded  him  with  an  intense  anxiety,  that  vanished 
when  the  degustator,  opening  his  eyes,  observed 
complacently,  "  Good  1  very  good,  my  friend  l" 
Placing  the  second  quarter  between  the  librarian's 
teeth,  the  gardener  said  with  more  firmness,  but 
still  with  a  petitioning  accent,  "  Taste  the  flesh." 
Another  period  of  silence,  during  which  the  judge 
was  seen  to  move  his  mouth  slightly  in  the  dis- 
charge of  duty  to  his  sovereign.  Again  opening 
his  eyes,  M.  Petit-Radel  remarked  with  stronger 
indications  of  approval,  "  Ah  1  very  good,  my  friend, 
very  good  1"  Taking  up  a  third  quarter  on  the 
point  of  his  blade,  the  grower  remarked  confidently, 
"  Taste  the  aroma."  It  was  tasted,  and  declared, 
"  good — very  good  !  ah,  mon  ami,  very  good  /" 
Two  minutes  later,  the  candidate  for  royal  notice 
put  the  remaining  piece  on  the  end  of  M.  Petit- 


FIT   FOR   THE    KING  !  221 

Radel's  tongue,  exclaiming  triumphantly,  "  Now, 
taste  the  whole."  Having  obeyed  what  was  an 
order,  rather  than  a  supplication,  M.  Petit-Radel  rose 
from  his  seat,  and  advancing  to  his  visitor  with 
outstretched  hands,  and  the  look  which  is  the  most 
eloquent  acknowledgment  of  great  services,  he 
ejaculated  with  suitable  effusion  from  his  brighten- 
ing eyes,  **  My  friend,  my  friend,  it  is  perfect !  it 
is  superb !  you  have  conquered  every  diflBculty. 
I  render  you  the  homage  of  ray  sincerest  admiration. 
From  to-morrow,  your  peaches  shall  be  served  on 
the  table  of  the  King  !" 

Some  few  years  since  a  fine  epicure  and  peculiarly 
nice  judge  of  fruit  was  seen  loitering  near  a  sunny 
wall,  upon  which  a  pear,  of  noble  shape  and  a 
skin  that  revealed  the  excellence  of  the  fruit,  was 
arriving  at  its  perfection.  The  epicure  could  not 
be  lured  from  his  wall,  although  he  had  promised 
to  drive  with  a  friend  at  that  very  hour.  "My 
dear  fellow,"  he  said,  pointing  to  the  pear,  "  when 
I  made  the  eno:ao:ement  I  had  no  notion  that  this 
pear  would  come  on  so  quickly.  These  pears  are 
truly  ripe  for  no  more  than  five  hours ;  and  from 
the  commencement  of  the  first  hour  of  ripeness 
they  improve  steadily,  if  the  sun  is  hot,  for  two 
hours  and  a-half,  when  they  as  steadily  deteriorate 
till  the  end  of  the  fifth  hour,  after  which  they  are 
fit  ouly  for  such  persons  as  can  enjoy  market-fruit. 


222  A   BOOK  ABOUT  THE   TABLE. 

I  must  wait  here,  and  catch  that  pear  in  the  very 
heart  of  the  middle  hour.  Excuse  me,  you  must 
pay  your  visits  alone," 

So  the  friend  went  for  a  solitary  drive,  whilst  the 
epicure  loitered  before  the  sunny  wall  till  the  pear 
was  ripe.  In  due  course  the  pear  attained  per- 
fection. For  once,  the  grower's  patience  and 
vigilance  were  rewarded.  The  pear  was  of  incom- 
parable flavour. 


223 


CHAPTER  XL 

ORDERING    OF   FEASTS* 

"  Ingenioas  Lister,  were  a  picture  drawn    • 
With  Cynthia's  face,  but  with  a  neck  like  brawn. 
With  wings  of  turkey,  and  with  feet  of  calf, 
Tho'  drawn  by  Kneller,  it  would  make  you  laugh  ! 
Soch  is  (good  Sir)  the  figure  of  a  feast, 
By  some  rich  farmer's  wife  and  sister  drest. 
Which,  were  it  not  for  plenty  and  for  steam. 
Might  be  resembled  to  a  sick  man's  dream. 
Where  all  ideas  huddling  run  so  fast, 
That  syllabubs  come  first  and  soups  the  last.'* 

KiKo's  "Abt  op  Oookebt." 

"  A  maxim,  too,  that  must  not  be  forgot. 
Whatever  be  your  dinner,  *  serve  it  hot,* 
Your  fine  ragouts,  like  epigrams,  require 
A  little  salt, — but  to  be  full  of  fire." 

"  The  fiANQUET,"  A  Poem  in  three  Cantos. 

"  rpO  order  **  signifies  in  the  first  instance  to 
-*-  **  arrange  methodically/*  It  acquired  its 
secondary  meaning,  "  to  command,'*  from  the  need 
of  commands  for  the  execution  of  a  design  for  the 
systematic  arrangement  of  many  things.  The 
ordinary  feeder  diff'ers  from  the  epicure  by  omitting 
to  design  thoughtfully  before  he  directs  authorita- 
tively. In  his  most  self-dependent  mood  he  is  a 
"commander,**  but  he  never  rises  to  the  dignity 
of  an  "  orderer.'*     Usually  he  is  neither  the  one  nor 


224  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

the  otber,  but  a  meek  petitioner,  who,  conscious 
of  his  incompetency  to  **  order,"  forbears  to  "  com- 
mand/' and  trusts  blindly  to  the  menial  controller 
of  his  kitchen.  Indeed,  it  is  not  every  gourmet 
who  has  the  knowledge  and  discretion  requisite  for 
an  orderer.  Not  more  than  one  epicure  in  ten 
should  be  trusted  to  "  order"  a  dinner.  "  On 
devient  cuisinier,  mais  on  nait  r&tisseur,"  says 
Brillat-Savarin  : — cooks  are  made,  but  artistes  are 
born.  The  same  may  be  said  of  epicures  and 
orderers.  Everyone  eats ;  a  minority,  perhaps  five 
per  cent,  of  civilized  humanity  may,  by  culture 
under  favourable  circumstances,  become  epicures ; 
b^t  orderers,  like  poets,  are  not  produced  by 
education.  Begotten  under  an  auspicious  star,  the 
orderer  enters  the  world  with  exceptional  endow- 
ments. 

In  the  "Physiologic  flu  Gout,"  Brillat-Savarin 
says,  "  L'ordre  des  comestibles  est  des  plus  sub- 
stantiels  aux  plus  lagers.  L'ordre  des  boissons  est 
des  plus  temper^es  aux  plus  fumeuses  et  aux  plus 
parfuraees."  Elsewhere  in  the  same  work  he 
repeats  the  same  sentiments,  so  desirous  w^as  he 
to  impress  them  on  the  student's  mind. 

Having  surveyed  the  cuisine  and  banquets  of  the 
Old  English,  the  time  has  come  for  us  to  glance 
at  the  ordering  of  modern  banquets,  and  to  see 
how   far  the  arrangements  of  to-day  accord  wilh 


DIVERSITY   OP   DISHES.  225 

ancient  practice.  But  ere  we  take  this  conduding 
survey  of  the  nineteenth  century  table,  let  us  look 
again  at  the  Elizabethan  board,  and  turn  over  a 
few  menus  which  exhibit  the  slow  progress  of 
culinary  art  in  the  seventeenth  age. 

It  is  needless  to  observe   that  Brillat-Savarin*8 
maxim  for  the  ordering  of  eatables,  was  only  the 
precise  utterance  of    a  principle  generally  recog- 
nized, though  imperfectly  obeyed,  by  our  chefs  of 
olden  time.     In  the  confusion  of  meats  that    dis- 
tinguished mediaBval  repasts,  we  detected  a  dispo- 
sition to  serve  the  heavier  and  cheaper  before  the 
lighter  and  more  choice  viands.     The  same  rule  is 
observable  in  the  "services'*  of  Elizabethan  ban- 
quets, which,   whilst   surpassing  the  feasts  of  our 
earlier   ancestors  in  substantiality,   exceeded  them 
also  in  number  and  diversity  of  dishes.  Remarking  on 
the  variety  of  viands  ordinarily  served  at  the  tables 
of  the  nobility,  Harrison  says,    "that  for  a    man 
to  dine  with  one   of  them,  and  to  taste  of  euerie 
dish  that  standeth  before  him  (which  few  use  to 
doo,  but  ech  one  feedeth  upon  that  meat  him  best 
liketh  for  the   time),   is  rather   to  yeelde   unto   a 
greate  conspiracie  with  a  great  deale  of  meate  for 
the  speedie  suppression  of  health,  then  the  use  of 
a  necessarie  meane  to  satisfie  himselfe  with  a  com- 
petent repast  to  sustain  his  bodie  withall."     The 
same   writer  remarks  particidarly   on   the  fashion 

VOL.  IL  a 


226  A    BOOK   ABOUT   THE   TABLE. 

of  English  feasters  to   "  begin  with  the  most  grosse 
food,  and  end  with  most  delicate." 

At  the  same  time,  the  directly  opposite  practice 
prevailed  in  Scotland,  where  it  had  been  observed 
that  gentlemen  were  prone  to  eat  so  largely  of  the 
earlier  dishes,  as  to  have  neither  appetite  nor 
room  for  the  later  viands,  which  often  went 
untouched  from  the  higher  tables  to  the  inferior 
boards.  In  which  case,  the  fashion  of  postponing 
the  more  delicate  meats  to  the  close  of  the  meals 
resulted  in  the  disappointment  of  "  quality*'  and 
the  corresponding  advantage  of  varlets.  To  secure 
the  best  of  his  good  cheer  for  himself,  and  leave 
the  worst  of  it  to  his  servants,  the  prudent  Scot 
reversed  the  order  of  meats,  and,  eating  his  game 
in  the  first  course,  had  a  third  service  of  beef  and 
pork.  "  The  Scot,"  says  Harrison,  "  thinking 
much  to  leave  the  best  for  his  meniall  servants, 
maketh  his  entrance  at  the  best,  so  that  he  is  sure 
thereby  to  leave  the  worst." 

To  the  Scots  of  feudal  time,  England  was  a  land 
of  sensuality  and  wantonness.  Just  as  we  attri- 
buted our  drunkenness  and  gluttony  to  the  influence 
of  the  sottish  Hollanders,  and  our  wantonness  to 
the  vicious  example  of  the  French,  the  Scotch  of 
olden  days  insisted  that  all  their  wickedness  was 
the  fruit  of  English  profligacy.  According  to  them, 
Satan  had  his  proper  home  and   hunting-ground 


EVIL   COMPANIONS.  227 

south  of  the  Tweed,  but  was  continually  despatching 
his"  emissaries,  in  the  shape  of  lewd,  tippling 
Englishmen,  to  poison  the  morals  and  kill  the 
souls  of  the  naturally  virtuous  Northerners.  Left 
to  themselves,  the  Scotch  would  have  been  no  less 
chaste  and  temperate  than  hardy  and  courageous. 
But  alas !  they  were  continually  wandering  from 
the  paths  of  their  primitive  righteousness,  and 
pursuing  carnal  delights  at  the  instigation  of  the 
neighbouring  people.  An  English  traveller  from 
Dumfries  to  Inverness  could  be  tracked  by  the 
moral  defilements  which  never  failed  to  mark  his 
course  through  a  simple  people.  After  living  to 
middle  age  a  model  of  domestic  worth  and  social 
decorum,  many  a  true  Scot  had  become  a  prodigy 
of  uncleanness  during  a  few  weeks'  residence  in 
England,  whither  he  had  gone  in  the  pursuit  of 
straying  cattle.  In  the  middle  of  the  fifteenth 
century  it  was  believed  by  the  Scotch  that  wasteful 
gluttony  had  never  shown  itself  in  their  land  till 
James  the  First,  on  his  return  from  captivity, 
planted  amongst  his  courtiers  the  vicious  tastes  he 
had  acquired  in  England.  Bishop  Wardlaw  of 
St.  Andrew's  held  this  opinion ;  and  in  his  zeal  for 
the  suppression  of  luxury,  the  worthy  prelate 
induced  the  Scotch  Parliament  to  prohibit  baked 
meats  to  all  Scotchmen  beneath  the  degrees  of 
gentility.     On  flesh-days  the  plebeian  Scot  might 

q2 


228  A   BOOK   ABOUT   THE   TABLE. 

eat  whatever  meat  he  chose  provided  he  boiled  it ; 
but  he  could  not  take  a  cut  of  "  roast"  or  "  baked" 
without  sin  and  punishment.  A  hundred  and  fifty 
years  after  Wardlaw  denounced  the  luxuriousness 
of  Scottish  manners,  and  deprived  the  humble  folk 
of  baked  meat,  the  Elizabethan  table  was  at  the 
height  of  its  splendour  and  prodigality. 

Like  their  forefathers  of  the  Plantagenet  days, 
the  Elizabethans  gave  three  courses,  exclusive  of 
the  **  entry"  and  *'  issue,"  at  their  grand  banquets  ; 
but  dinners  and  suppers  of  only  two  courses  were 
often  served  at  their  tables  to  large  parties.  Feasts 
of  two  courses  were  also  placed  on  modish  tables 
throughout  the  seventeenth  century,  though  Giles 
Rose,  diminishing  the  number  of  dishes  at  each 
service,  doubled  the  old  number  of  courses.  One 
of  his  menus  is  for  a  dinner  of  six  courses,  exclu- 
sive of  the  prelude  and  the  dessert. 

Here  is  a  bill  of  fare  from  William  How's  "  Proper 
New  Booke  of  Cookery,"  (1575): 

First  Course. — 1.  Brawne  and  mustard.  2.  Capons 
stewed  in  white  broth.  3.  A  pestle  of  venison 
upon  bones.  4.  A  chine  of  beefe,  and  a  breast  of 
mutton.  6.  Three  green  geese  in  a  dish,  sorrel 
sauce  for  a  stubble  goose,  mustard   and  vinegar. 

7.  (After  AUhalowe  day)  a  swan,  sauce  chaudell. 

8.  A  pigge.  9.  A  double  ribbe  of  biefe  rested, 
sauce,  pepper  and  vinegar.  10.  A  loyne  of  veale 
or  a  breast ;  sauce,  oranges.     11.  Halfe  a  lambe  or 


"the  hcswife's  jewrl.'*  229 

kid.  12.  Two  capons  rosted,  sauce,  wine  and 
salt,  ale  and  salt,  except  it  be  on  soppes.  13.  Two 
pasties  of  falowe  deere  in  a  dishe.     14.  A  custard. 

15.  A  dish  of  leaches. 

Second  Course. — 1.  Jelly.  2.  Pecock,  sauce, 
wine  and  salt.  3.  Two  conyes  or  halfe-a-dozeu 
rabbets,  sauce,  mustarde  and  sugar.  4.  Halfe-a- 
dozen  chickens  upon  sorrel  soppes.  5.  Malarde 
and  teale,  sauce,  mustarde  and  vinegar.  6.  Guiles 
and  storke.  7.  Heronsew,  crane,  curlew,  bittour, 
bustarde,  sauce  galentine.  8.  Fesand,  sauce, 
water  and  salte,  with  onyons  sliced.  9.  Halfe-a- 
dozen  rayles,  sauced  as  the  fesands.  11.  A  dozen 
quayles.  12.  A  dishe  of  larkes.  13.  Pasties  of 
red  deere  in  a  dyshe.     14.  Tarte.     15.  Gensbread. 

16.  Fritters.  In  these  thirty-one  dishes,  beginning 
with  brawne  and  ending  with  fritters,  we  have  all 
the  materials  for  a  dinner  of  three  courses,  with  a 
prelude,  though  they  were  badly  ordered  in  only 
two  services. 

A  cookery-book  of  a  later  date  of  the  same 
reign,  "  The  Good  Huswife's  Jewell,"  (1597),  gives 
us  the  following  order  for  a  less  stately  repast. 

*^  First  Course. — Pottake  or  stewed  broth. 
2.  Boyled  meat  or  stewed  meat.  3.  Chickens  and 
bacon.  4.  Powdered  beef.  5.  Pies.  6.  Goose. 
7.  Pigge.  8.  Hosted  beef.  9.  Eosted  veale. 
10.  Custard. 


230  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

Second  Course. — 1  Rosted  lamb.  2.  Rosted 
capons.  3.  Rosted  conies.  4.  Chickens.  '  5.  Pea- 
hennes.     6.  Baked  venison.     7.  Tarts. 

The  notable  feature  of  this  menu  is  the  approach 
to  modern  usage  in  the  substitution  of  "  soup"  for 
the  ancient  prelude  of  "  brawn  and  mustard." 
Though  the  mediaeval  "  entry"  continued  to  main- 
tain its  place  throughout  the  seventeenth  century, 
the  Elizabethan  practice  of  beginning  dinner  with 
soup  was  never  relinquished. 

The  author  of  "The  Accomplished  Ladies  Delight 
in  Preserving,  Physick,  Beautifying  and  Cookery," 
(1684),  gives  us  the  following  order  for  an  elegant 
dinner  at  Candlemas-tide. 

First  Course. — 1.  A  pottage  with  a  hen.  2.  A 
Chatham  pudding.  3.  A  fricacie  of  chickens. 
4.  A  leg  of  mutton  with  a  sallet.  Garnish  your 
dishes  with  barberries. 

Second  Course. — 1.  A  chine  of  mutton.  2.  A 
chine  of  veal.  3.  A  lark-pye.  4.  A  couple  of 
pullets,  one  larded  and  garnished  with  orange- 
slices. 

Third  Course. — 1.  A  dish  of  woodcocks.  2.  A 
couple  of  rabbits.  3.  A  dish  of  asparagus.  4.  A 
Westphalia  gammon. 

Last  Course. — 1.  Two  orange-tarts,  one  with  herbs. 
2.  Bacon-tart.  3.  Apple-tart.  4.  A  dish  of  pip- 
pins.    5.  A  dish  of  pearmains. 


THE   PERFECT   KOSE,  231 

This  last  course  was  the  '*  issue'*  or  "  dessert." 
It  is  worthy  of  observation  that  the  same  writer 
resembles  most  of  the  chefs  of  his  period  in  using 
"banquet"  to  designate  a  single  service  of  such 
delicacies  as  fruits  and  sweetmeats.  For  instance, 
he  orders  a  Candlemas  "banquet"  thus:  "  1.  A 
dish  of  apricots.  2.  A  dish  of  marmalade  of  pippins. 
3.  A  dish  of  preserved  cherries.  4.  A  whole  red 
quince.     5.  A  dish  of  dryed  sweetmeats." 

The  longest,  and  perhaps  most  characteristic,  of 
Giles  Rose's  "orders"  is  the  following  Summer 
menu  of  nine  courses,  i.e.,  six  courses  with  "  pre- 
lude," a  service  of  thick  soups,  and  "  dessert." 

"  At  the  Entry. — 1.  Good  bread.  2.  Good  wine. 
3.  Apricots.  4.  Damask  plums.  5.  The  petitz 
pastez,  or  little  pyes  of  venison,  hot.  6.  Talmouses, 
made  of  the  brain  of  a  capon,  minced  and  baked 
like  cheese-cake. 

"  Pottages.  —  1.  Boiled  and  larded  venison. 
2.  Chickens  in  stove.  3.  Bisets  or  wood-pigeons, 
with  sprouts  and  young  coleworts. 

"  First  Service. — 1.    Partridges  with  small  salt. 

2.  Hot  venison-pye.     3.  Young  rabbets,  also  with 
small  salt. 

"  Second  Service. — 1.  Hems,  with  a  bastard-sauce. 

3.  Levrets.     3.  A  pye  of  quails. 

"  ndrd  Service. — 1.   Soust  or  pickled  meat,  with 


232  A    BOOK    ABOUT  THE   TABI^E. 

a  cordial  sauce.    2.  Chickens  in  sharp-sauce.     3.  A 
pye  of  widgeons. 

"  Fourth  Service. — 1.  Estoudpuux  au  moust^  or 
stares,  that  is  with  a  sauce  of  new  sweet  wine,  or 
the  juice  of  grapes,  squeezed  in  your  hand.  2.  Oyson 
a  la  Mahoide^  or  a  goose  in  white  sauce.  3.  Pullets 
Faisendez,  or  mortified  like  a  pheasant. 

^^  Fifth  Service. — 1.  Pidgeons  with  sweet  sauce. 
2.  Venison.     3.  Cold  venison-pye. 

*'  Sixth  Service. — I.  Pig.  2.  Pears.  3.  Plaches. 
4.  Sturgion. 

"  At  the  Issue  of  the  Table. — 1.  Three  things  baked 
upon  a  dish.     2.  Jelly.     3.  Apples.*' 

This  elaborate,  and  in  some  respects  elegant,  repast 
may  be  regarded  as  a  fair  specimen  of  the  dinners 
and  suppers  served  at  the  tables  of  our  courtliest  and 
most  luxurious  nobles  of  the  Restoration  period. 
The  English  cuisine,  it  will  be  allowed,  was  making 
rapid  advance  to  modern  perfection  when  Charles 
the  Second's  cook  could  design  a  feast  so  free  from 
Tudor  massiveness,  and  so  devoid  of  the  incon- 
gruous combinations  and  multifariousness  of  the 
mediaeval  repasts.  An  innovator  in  the  direction  of 
lightness  and  elegance,  Giles  Rose  was  the  first 
English  chef  to  prefer  delicacy  and  grace  to  diver- 
sity and  superabundance.  A  disciple  of  the  French 
school  of  artistes  who  flourished  under  the  patronage 
of  Louis  the  Fourteenth^  he  was  the  first  English 


FISH    IN    DISEbTEEM.  233 

cook  to  serve  courses  of  so  few  as  three  dishes,  his 
favourite  number  of  viands  for  a  single  service. 

It  has  been  already  remarked  that  fish  was  never 
duly  honoured  by  epicures,  so  long  as  they  were 
enjoined  to  eat  it  in  certain  seasons  and  on  certain 
days,  when  they  were  forbidden  to  touch  flesh.  It 
would  have  been  strange  if  they  had  not  under- 
valued the  meat  which  the  Church  regarded  as  the 
diet  of  penance  and  humiliation,  whilst  the  secular 
law  rated  it  as  an  inferior  food,  which  men 
•should  be  compelled  to  eat  for  political  ends.  In 
our  Catholic  period,  as  we  have  seen,  fish  was 
seldom  served  in  flesh-days,  and  when  it  appeared 
at  a  flesh-feast  it  was  brought  on  with  the  lighter 
meats  towards  the  close  of  the  repast,  as  a  trivial 
additament  of  the  service.  It  was  dressed  in  half- 
a-hundred  various  ways ;  but  the  cooks  who  pre- 
pared it  in  so  many  fashions  disdained  it  as  a  com- 
paratively cheap  and  flavourless  material.  How  to 
make  so  poor  a  food  highly  palatable  was  the  grand 
problem  and  diflSculty  of  culinary  science.  In  this 
respect  the  Elizabethan  artistes  and  gourmands 
resembled  our  cooks  and  gluttons  of  earlier  time. 
If  they  preferred  some  kinds  of  fish  to  other  species, 
they  preferred  ordinary  flesh  to  the  choicest  fish. 
Eating  fish  under  compulsion,  they  selected  the 
best,  or  rather  what  they  took  for  the  best,  but 
"  bad  is  the  best"  was  the  familiar  phrase  that  ex- 


234  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

pressed  their  low  esteem  for  delicacies  which  they 
could  not  appreciate  justly.  It  is  singular  that  the 
modern  practice  of  serving  fish  before  flesh  at  the 
same  repast  had  its  origin  in  the  period,  when  the 
former  meat  was  in  such  disfavour  that  modish  and 
luxurious  people  were  glad  to  pay  highly  for  ex- 
emption from  the  law,  which  ordered  it  to  be  eaten 
on  all  Wednesdays  and  Saturdays,  not  falling  in 
Christmas  week  or  Easter  week,  as  well  as  on  the 
fish-days  of  the  Church. 

Enacted  for  "  the  maintenance  of  the  Navye," 
i.e.,  for  the  encouragement  of  the  class  which  pro- 
vided sailors  for^  the  Commonwealth,  the  Statute, 
6  Elizabeth,  c.  5  (1662-3),  ordered  all  persons  to 
abstain  from  flesh,  and  content  themselves  with 
fish-diet  on  three  days  of  the  week,  and  also  on  all 
days  "usually  observed  as  fishe  days."  The 
penalties  of  disobedience  to  this  law  were  heavy. 
For  every  offence  against  its  orders  the  offender 
was  liable  to  a  fine  of  three  pounds  (say  £30  of 
Victorian  money),  or  close  imprisonment,  without 
bail  or  mainprise,  for  three  months.  But  the  rigour 
and  comprehensiveness  of  the  Statute's  eleventh 
section  were  greatly  modified  by  subsequent  clauses. 
A  "  lord  of  the  realm'*  might  buy  exemption  from 
the  new  law  by  an  annual  payment  of  twenty-six 
shillings  and  eightpence  to  the  poor-box  of  the 
parish.     On  the  same  terms  his  lady  could  purchase 


MERCIFUL   EXEMPTIONS.  235 

the  privilege  of  eating  flesh  on  Wednesdays  and 
Saturdays,  The  same  exemption  was  accorded  to 
a  knight  or  his  lady  for  an  annual  payment  of  thir- 
teen shillings  and  fourpence,  and  to  any  person  be- 
neath the  knightly  grade  for  a  yearly  offering  to  the 
poor-box  of  six  shillings  and  eightpence,  paid  within 
six  days  after  the  Feast  of  the  Purification  of  the 
Virgin  Mary.  In  case  of  illness,  any  person  could 
obtain  exemption  from  his  parish  priest  by  means 
of  a  special  license,  granted  for  eight  days,  and 
renewable  on  every  eighth  day  throughout  his  dis- 
order, the  only  charge  for  such  license  being  a  fee 
of  fourpence  to  the  parish  registrar,  who  recorded 
the  exemption  in  the  Church  Book.  Yet  further, 
by  section  22  of  the  Statute,  it  was  enacted  that  on 
all  fish-Wednesdays  one  flesh-dish  might  be  served 
at  any  table  with  every  three  "competent  usual 
dishes  of  sea-fishe,"  provided  such  fish- dishes  were 
put  on  the  board  bond  fide  for  actual  consumption. 

One  of  the  most  characteristic  sections  of  this 
curious  enactment  provided  "  That  whosoever  shall 
by  preaching,  teaching,  writing,  or  open  speeche, 
notifie  that  any  eatinge  of  fishe  and  forbearing  of 
fleshe  mentyoned  in  this  statnte  ys  of  any  necessity e 
for  the  saving  of  the  soule  of  man,  or  that  yt  ys  the 
service  of  God,  or  otherwise  than  as  other  politike 
lawes  arre  and  bee,  then  suche  person  shall  bee 
punished  as  spreaders  of  fause  newes  are  or  ought 


236  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

to  bee."  That  is  to  say,  they  should  be  whipped 
by  the  parish  beadle,  put  in  the  stocks,  or  thrown 
into  prison. 

The  twenty-second  section  of  the  law  had  a 
notable  effect  on  the  ordering  of  English  dinners. 
Whilst  the  rich  avoided  the  new  impositiots  of  fish- 
diet  by  annual  payments,  the  lowest  of  which  exceeded 
£3  of  Victorian  money,  the  commonalty  and  needy 
persons  of  quality  availed  themselves  of  the  permis- 
sion to  have  one  flesh-dish  at  their  Wednesday 
meals  for  every  three  fish-messes.  Hence  arose  the 
general  practice  of  serving  both  kinds  of  viand  at 
the  same  table.  The  fashion  of  serving  the  fish 
before  the  flesh  arose  at  the  same  time.  To  show 
that  he  had  no  disposition  to  abuse  the  relaxing 
clause,  by  substituting  a  diet  of  flesh  for  one  con- 
sisting chiefly  of  fish,  the  Elizabethan  housekeeper 
caused  the  "three  competent  dishes  of  sea-fishe" 
to  be  set  on  the  table  at  the  beginning  of  dinner  or 
supper,  and  refrained  from  flesh  till  they  had  been 
honestly  distributed  and  eaten. 

The  fashion,  which  thus  arose  from  orderly  sub- 
missiveness  to  Elizabeth's  enactment,  has  never 
disappeared  from  the  English  table.  It  created  in 
our  fairly  prosperous  households  a  laste  for  fish,  as 
a  light  and  appetizing  prelude  to  flesh,  that  gradually 
asserted  itself  in  the  higher  and  wealthier  classes, 
till  it  became  in  the  eighteenth  century  a  point  of 


GASTBONOMIO   REVIVALISM.  237 

gentility  to  open  every  dinner  with  a  service  of  the 
delicate  food  which  dehghted  the  palates  of  gas- 
tronomers, as  soon  as  religion  and  law  had  ceased 
to  force  it  down  their  throats. 

Under  the  influence  of  chefs  who  followed  in  the 
steps,  whilst  improving  the  method,  of  Giles  Rose, 
our  table  assumed  its  modern  order  in  the  earlier 
half  of  our  Georgian  period.  In  the  later  decades 
of  the  last  century  the  English  epicure's  dinner  con- 
sisted of  soup  and  fish  for  a  prelude,  a  course  of 
"  made  dishes,"  a  second  course  of  joints  and 
"  soHds,'*  and  a  third  of  game  and  sweets,  followed 
by  a  dessert.  The  "  made  dishes,"  or  entrees^ 
which  old-fashioned  folk  derided  as  "  French  kick- 
shaws," and  "  mere  gallimawfreys,"  were  prepared 
from  the  receipts  of  French  chefs,  who  practised 
their  art  in  the  kitchens  of  our  nobility.  But  in 
respect  to  their  "  made  dishes,"  these  foreign 
artistes  should  be  regarded  as  restorers  of  the  old 
English  cuisine,  rather  than  as  importers  of  Con- 
tinental inventions.  Most  of  the  "  novelties"  were 
things  of  mediaeval  contrivance,  that  had  been  com- 
mon cheer  at  our  Plantagenet  tables. 

Whilst  regarding  its  order,  the  enlightened  epi- 
cure has  no  difliculty  in  referring  to  their  historic 
sources  the  principal  elements  of  the  English  dinner. 
The  soup  is  old  English,  a  term  synonymous  with 
Roman  for  the  purpose  of  this  survey.     The  prac- 


238  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

tice  of  eating  fish  at  "  the  entry"  is  Elizabethan, 
though  it  was  popular  long  before  it  was  fashion- 
able.    Old  English  influence  is  conspicuous  in  our 
entrees^  especially  in  those  that  are  made  of  minced 
or  pounded  viands.     Highly-seasoned  curries,  for 
instance,  are  emphatically  old  English  fare,  though 
our  nabobs  of  the  last  century  are  commonly  be- 
lieved to  have  brought  them,  with  other  stimulating 
preparations,  from  the  East.     Whilst  their  colour 
reminds  us  of  the  rage  for  yellow  which  prevailed 
throughout  the  saffron  period  of  our  cookery,  their 
name  preserves  the  old  English  term  for  "  culinary 
practice."     For  seasoning  their  dishes  of  minced 
meat,  the  chefs  of  the  "  Forme  of  Cury"  had  two 
cury,  or  curry  powders — the  forte  and  the  douce — 
from  which  the  highly-seasoned  messes  derived  their 
special    appellation.      Our  joints   and    solids    are 
Tudor;    but  the  fashion  of  carving  them  in  thin 
slices  is  of  the  Stuart  or  post-fureine  period.     In 
our  sweets  and  fruit  dishes  old  English  influence  is 
dominant.  '  Modern  elegance  and  luxury  are  promi- 
nent in  the  dessert,  which,  however,  had  its  germ 
in  the   old   English   after-course.      Block-ice   was 
introduced  by   the   epicures   of    the   Restoration ; 
cream  and  water-ices  came  to  us  from  France  in 
the  last  century. 

The  English  reader  may  conclude  this  survey  of 
our  modern   table  by  reflecting   with   pride  that, 


ENGLISH   COOKERY.  239 

whatever  its  shortcomings,  the  English  cuisine  has 
enjoyed  for  centuries  a  high  reputation  on  the 
Continent  for  richness  and  refinement.  Whilst  he 
relished  the  fare  given  him  in  this  country,  Hentzner 
was  of  opinion  that  the  Elizabethan  English  were 
more  "  polite  in  eating  than  the  French."  Misson, 
who  lived  chiefly  amongst  our  citizens  of  middle 
rank,  thought  meanly  of  our  culinary  address ;  but 
he  admitted  that  our  nobility  fostered  the  "  generous 
art,"  and  fared  with  French  delicacy.  Towards  the 
close  of  the  last  century,  French  cookery  was  not 
more  liberally  encouraged  in  London  than  English 
cookery  in  Paris.  Half  a  century  since,  the  great 
Ude  wrote  of  us,  "  1  will  venture  to  affirm  that 
cookery  in  England,  when  well  done,  is  superior  to 
that  of  any  country  in  the  world."  And  only  the 
other  day,  M.  Urbain  Dubois,  the  Emperor  of 
Germany's  chef,  declared  in  his  "  Artistic  Cookery :" 
*'  It  is  a  fact  worthy  of  notice  that,  in  England, 
culinary  art  is  more  cultivated  than  in  any  other 
country."  Dubois  accounts  for  our  gastronomic 
zeal  and  culinary  pre-eminence  by  arguing  that  the 
excellence  of  our  materiel — especially  of  our  mutton 
and  beef — has  afl*ected  our  gastronomic  morality, 
by  rousing  in  our  breasts  a  superb  ambition  to 
render  justice  to  such  incomparable  viands.  He 
insists  that  though  "  sheep  are  diffused  all  over  the 
world,"  the  Continental  epicure,  who  would  ascer- 


240  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

tain  all  the  delicious  possibilities  of  muttoD,  should 
pursue  his  inquiries  in  this  country.  So  also  of 
beef,  he  observes  : — "  It  must  be  acknowledged  that 
it  is  only  in  England  it  meets  with  the  care  and 
attention  it  requires,  and  where  the  foresight  and 
sacrifices  necessary  to  ensure  its  perfection  are 
properly  understood.'* 


241 


CHAPTER  XII. 

COOK-SHOPS  AND  CLUB-HOUSES. 

"La  R^volation,  en  rainant  tons  ces  anciens  propri^taires,  a 
mis  tons  les  bons  cuisiniers  snr  le  pav^.  D^s-lors,  ponr  utiliser 
leur  talens,  ils  se  sont  faits  marcbands  de  bonne-cb^re  sous  le  nom 

de  Restanratenrs Cette  revolution  dans  la  caisine  et  la  fortune 

de  ces  restaurateurs  babiles  tient  encore  a  deux  autres  causes ;  la 
manie  de  Timitation  des  mcBurs  anglaises  (car  les  Anglais,  comme 
Ton  sait,  mangent  presque  toujours  a  la  tayerue),  et  cette  subite 
inondation  de  l^gislateurs  sans  domicile,  qui,  finissant  par  donner 
le  ton,  ont  entrain^  par  leur  exemple  tons  les  Parisiens  aa  cabaret." 
— Almanack  des  Gourmands.    1803. 

''  Maturer  age  to  tbis  deligbt  grown  strange, 
Eacb  nigbt  frequents  bis  club  bebind  tbe  'Change, 
Expecting  tbere  frugality  and  bealtb. 
And  bonour  rising  from  a  sberifiTs  wealth ; 
Unless  be  some  Insurance  dinner  lacks, 
'Tis  very  rarely  be  frequents  Pontacks." 

Dfi.  King's  "Aet  of  Cookery.'* 

TT7HERE  should  we  look  for  facts  to  justify 
•  *  M.  Dubois'  high  opinion  of  our  cookery  ? 
Scarcely  in  our  club-houses,  where,  though  it  never 
falls  below  average  goodness,  the  "  generous  art" 
seldom  rises  to  the  highest  degree  of  excellence. 
Still  less  in  our  public  dining-rooms,  where,  in  the 
absence  of  critical  patrons  and  competent  professors, 
it  has  languished  for  half  a  century,  and  in  the  last 
twenty  years  has  sunk  to  the  low  level  of  a  vulgar 
industry. 

VOL.  II.  B 


242  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

To  our  opprobrium,  it  must  be   confessed  that 
there  is  no  Continental  capital  so   poorly  provided 
as  London  with  establishments  where  the  stranger 
may  obtain  a  fairly  good  dinner  for  a  small  sum,  or 
an  excellent  dinner  at  a  great  price.     In  the  western 
districts  of  the  town,  millionaires  and  spendthrifts 
may  fare  delicately,  as  well  as  sumptuously,  at  the 
few   private   hotels   which   draw   their    prodigious 
profits  from  a  small  class  of  luxurious  and  opulent 
visitors.     But  to  test  the  capabilities  of  the  chef, 
retained  in  any  one  of  these  exclusive  and  decorous 
taverns,  it  is  necessary  that  the   curious  inquirer 
should  take  an  apartment,  and  attain  the  status  of 
a  guest  "  staying  in  the  house/*     Even  when  he 
places  a  coffee-room  at  the  service  of  casual  visitors, 
the  keeper  of  a  private  hotel  is  little  studious  to 
please  the  caller  who  only  "  drops  in  for  dinner" 
before  going  to  the  opera.     London  has  also  a  few 
large  hotels  where  the  stranger  may  dine  sufficiently, 
if  not  welly  for  twice  the  sum  that  he  would  pay  for 
a  much  better  meal  at  a  second-class  Paris  restau- 
rant.    But  apart  from  these  few  and  unsatisfactory 
places  that  cannot  be  easily  discovered  by  travellers 
unfamiliar  with  the  town,  what  accommodation  does 
London  offer  to  the  thousands  of  persons  who,  in 
default  of  invitations  to  private  tables,  must  take 
their  food  and  drink  from  public  caterers  ?     What 
are  her  hospitable  arrangements  for  foreigners  in 


PUBLIO   DINING-ROOMS.  243 

lodgings,  country  cousins  who  do  not  care  to  dine 
every  day  at  their  hotels,  and  the  hundreds  of  club- 
less  bachelors  who  inhabit  chambers  in  the  east- 
central  and  west-central  districts  ? 

They  have  a  choice  of  houses  where  dinners  are 
provided  for  casual  customers.  There  are  the  old- 
fashioned  chop-houses,  whose  arrangements  were 
excellent  for  the  persons  who  frequented  them  in 
the  last  century,  though  very  discordant  to  the 
usages  and  taste  of  the  present  period.  There  are 
the  antiquated  hotels  of  the  Covent  Garden  quarter 
and  the  principal  thoroughfares  between  the  City 
and  Hyde  Park,  in  whose  dingy  coffee-rooms  gentle- 
men may  get  a  substantial  dinner  from  the  joint 
and  a  pint  of  inferior  wine  for  eight  or  ten 
shillinsrs.  The  Strand  and  Fleet  Street  have  several 
long,  low,  dirty  rooms,  where  economical  feeders, 
seated  on  the  narrow  benches  of  a  dozen  or  more 
little  pews,  satisfy  their  hunger  with  plates  of  meat 
and  vegetables,  in  the  din  and  heat  of  company 
three  times  too  numerous  for  the  space.  There 
are  also  the  modern,  flashy,  pretentious  dining- 
rooms,  where,  in  salons  splendid  with  cheap  gilding 
and  fly-flecked  plate-glass  mirrors,  a  weary  mortal 
may  get  a  piece  of  fish,  a  cut  from  a  luke-warm 
joint,  and  a  bottle  of  thin  claret  at  a  charge  for 
which  he  could  procure  a  really  capital  dinner  in 
Paris,  though  the  prime  cost  of  materiel  is  almosjb 

B  2 


244  A   BOOK   ABOUT  THE   TABLE. 

as  high  in  the  French  capital  as  in  London.  But 
no  one  can  dine  well  and  comfortably  at  any  of 
these  establishments.  To  avoid  extortion,  the 
diner  must  expose  himself  to  heat,  noise,  offensive 
company,  and  the  irritations  of  a  villainous  cuisine. 
To  dine  on  decent  fare,  in  a  room  suflBciently  large 
for  the  company,  and  in  an  atmosphere  of  proper 
temperature  and  purity,  he  must  submit  without 
a  murmur  to  the  considerable  exactions  of  the  food- 
tariff,  and  the  scandalous  exactions  of  an  impudent 
Viiue'Carte. 

In  this  respect  modem  London  compares  dis- 
advantageously  with  old  London.  The  bravest 
and  merriest  gentlemen  of  the  town  frequented  the 
Elizabethan  ordinaries,  where  persons  of  every 
honest  degree  met  and  talked  over  the  bountifully 
furnished  tables.  In  Charles  the  Second's  London 
every  important  tavern  had  its  daily  table-d^hote. 
At  the  same  time,  the  town  had  such  luxurious 
restaurants  at  Chattelin's  and  Pontacks,  and  ruder 
cook-shops  where  the  visitor  could  select  his  cut 
from  any  one  of  twenty  joints,  turning  on  the  spits 
before  the  kitchen-fire.  "  Generally,"  says  Misson 
of  these  places,  where  lords  of  the  realm  would 
take  a  snack  with  their  tradesmen,  and  merchants 
would  dine  sociably  with  clerks,  "four  spits,  one 
over  another,  carry  round  each  five  or  six  pieces  of 
butcher-meat,  beef,  mutton,  veal,  pork,  and  lamb ; 


THE   GEORGIAN    GOFFEE-EOOM.  245 

you  have  what  quantity  you  please  cut  off,  fat,  lean, 
much  or  little  done;  with  this,  a  little  salt  and 
mustard  upon  the  side  of  a  plate,  a  bottle  of  beer, 
and  a  roll ;  and  there  is  your  whole  feast."  One 
can  readily  imagine  the  shortcomings  and  discom- 
forts of  these  sociable  cook-shops,  but  no  frequenter 
of  them  could  complain  of  the  diversity  and  choice 
of  meats. 

All  that  can  be  said  of  the  liveliness  and  freedom 
of  the  Elizabethan  and  Caroline  tables-d/ hote,  may 
be  affirmed  of  those  ordinaries  of  the  eighteenth 
century,  whose  humours  divert  the  readers  of  Steele, 
Fielding,  and  Smollett,  even  more  than  they  amused 
Mr.  Spectator  and  Sir  Roger.  The  cook-shops 
may  have  suffered  from  the  gradual  development  of 
coffee-houses  and  establishments  for  eating;  but 
the  ordinary  flourished  long  after  the  Georgian 
coffee-room  —  unlike  the  earlier  coffee-houses 
whose  arrangements  justified  their  name — was  the 
habitual  dining-place  of  its  customers.  At  present 
the  Georgian  coffee-room,  where  coffee  was  seldom 
served,  may  appear  deficient  in  lightness  and  spaced. 
We  are  disposed  to  wonder  how  our  great-grand- 
fathers contrived  to  "  sit  at  their  ease,"  for  hours 
together,  on  its  narrow,  straight-backed  forms. 
Together  with  the  taste  for  the  fruity  wines  put 
on  its  small  tables,  we  have  lost  the  taste  for  its 
too  solid   cuisine.     But  its  arrangements  were  in 


246  A   BOOK   ABOUT  THE   TABT^. 

harmony  with  prevailing  notions  of  comfort,  when 
gentle-folk  delighted  in  the  cosiness  of  little  rooms, 
and  were  trained  to  think  it  effeminate  to  repose 
on  sofas  and  lounge-chairs.  Moreover,  it  should 
be  remembered  to  the  credit  of  these  places  of  re- 
union, that  like  the  coffee-room  of  Dryden's  day, 
the  Johnsonian  coffee-room  was  the  centre  of  every 
masculine  coterie,  and  the  favourite  resort  of 
scholarly  or  modish  men  of  all  the  higher  social 
grades. 

In  the  earlier  years  of  the  present  century  London 
could  boast  that  it  had  never  possessed  a  better 
supply  of  dining-houses.  Whilst  such  suburbs  as 
Highgate,  Hampstead,  and  Chelsea,  and  such 
outlying  places  as  Greenwich,  Putney,  Twickenham 
and  Richmond,  were  known  for  taverns  that 
provided  good  dinners  and  excellent  wine,  the  town 
abounded  with  inns  and  restaurants  where  the 
cookery  was  perfect  in  some  particular  way,  if  not 
in  every  way. 

In  "  the  city  "  the  epicure  had  Birch's  in  Corn- 
hill  for  turtle,  or  he  could  get  a  mid-day  snack  of 
cutlets  and  asparagus,  or  sandwiches  and  sherry  at 
Garraway's  in  Change  Alley,  beneath  the  sale-room 
where  West  Indian  estates  and  other  property  were 
sold  by  candle-auction.  "At  the  commencement 
of  a  sale,"  says  a  describer  of  the  coffee-house, 
alike  famous  for  its  luncheons  and  its  early  interest 


CITY  CHOP-HOCSES.  247 

in  the  tea-trade,  "  when  the  auctioneer  has  read  the 
description  of  the  property  and  the  conditions  on 
which  it  is  to  be  disposed  of,  a  piece  of  candle, 
usually  an  inch  long,  is  lighted,  and  he  who  is  the 
last  bidder  at  the  time  the  light  goes  out  is  declared 
the  purchaser."  But  for  his  dinners — when  he  had 
no  invitations  to  feast  with  aldermen  or  company, 
and  waa  not  disposed  for  a  costly  meal  at  the 
Albion,  in  Aldersgate  Street — the  civic  epicure 
relied  chiefly  on  the  chop-houses  of  his  part  of  the 
town.  Dolly's  chop-house,  in  a  quiet  passage 
midway  between  Newgate  Street  and  Paternoster 
I{,ow,  the  house  where  Dr.  George  Fordyce  dined 
daily  for  more  than  twenty  years  of  his  studious 
and  rather  gluttonous  career,  may  be  mentioned  as 
a  specimen  of  these  "  city  houses,"  where  meat 
of  the  finest  quality  was  cooked  with  exquisite 
skill. 

« 

Similar  houses  could  be  counted  by  the  dozen  in 
the  immediate  neighbourhood  of  the  Inns  of  Court. 
It  is  enough  to  allude  to  such  houses  as  the 
Cheshire  Cheese,  the  Mitre,  the  Rainbow,  and  the 
Cock,  whose  "plump-faced  waiter"  (of  a  later 
period)  was  very  indignant  on  hearing  that  he  had 
been  "  put  into  a  poem."  But  though  their  larders 
and  cooks  were  honourably  known,  these  taverns  of 
the  Temple  district  are  scarcely  so  celebrated  in 
gastronomic   annals  as   in   the   history   of  toping. 


248  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

Always  a  "  late  house,"  the  Cock  coffee-room  was 
something  later  than  usual  on  the  nights  when  a 
new  member  was  elected  to  *'  The  Philosophers," 
a  club  of  learned  and  tippling  sages  who,  sixty 
years  since,  used  to  meet  every  evening  in  a 
particular  box. 

Going  westward  from  Chancery  Lane,  the  epicure 
in  search  of  a  good  dinner  might  attain  his  object 
at  the  Hercules  Pillars,  in  Great  Queen  Street, 
directly  opposite  the  Freemasons*  Tavern.  Or  he 
might  pause  in  his  course  towards  the  Covent 
Garden  Hotel,  and  glance  at  the  bill  of  fare  which 
Mr.  Jupp  had  placed  in  the  coffee-room  of  The 
Queen's  Head.  A  daring  innovator,  Jupp  was  the 
first  of  British  publicans  to  serve  his  parlour-guests 
with  spirits  in  small  pewter  measures.  "  Waiter," 
a  gentleman,  with  a  husky  voice  and  shrill  note  in 
it,  exclaimed  to  one  of  the  Queen's  Head  servitors, 
"  One  more  half-quartern  and  then  I'll  ^o."  The 
waiter  was  running  to  execute  the  order,  when 
another  gentleman  with  a  still  huskier  voice  and 
even  shriller  note  in  it,  called  out  viciously,  "  And 
bring  me  another  whole  quartern,  for  by  Heaven ! 
mean  to  stay  /"  The  hearers  laughed  after  the 
ashion  of  tavern-haunters  sixty  years  since,  long 
and  loudly ;  and  from  that  evening  the  two  measures 
were  known  to  Mr.  Jupp's  customers  as  "  a  go " 
and  **  a  stay." 


SIXTY  TEARS   SINCE.  249 

If  Mr.  Jupp's  menu  could  not  induce  him  to  stay, 
our  wandering  epicure  could  go  further  westward, 
and  find  at  intervals  of  a  hundred  yards  a  series  of 
well-managed  dining-rooms.  His  route  from  Covent 
Garden  to  Bond  Street  passed  the  doors  of  some  of 
the  best  restaurants  of  the  town.  The  Sablonifere, 
named  after  the  Parisian  chef,  La  Sabloniere,  was 
daily  thronged  by  gourmets  who  preferred  it  to  the 
several  other  French  houses  of  Leicester  Square. 
May-Fair  had  at  least  a  dozen  establishments  where 
her  dandies  could  dine  fairly  or  sumptuously  by 
the  carte  or  at  well-appointed  tables-d^hote.  Governs 
Coffee-house  in  Brook  Street,  and  Mount  Coffee- 
house in  Grosvenor  Street,  were  famous  for  their 
dinners.  The  same  may  be  said  of  the  "Prince  of 
Wales,"  in  Conduit  Street,  and  "  Thomas's "  in 
Bruton  Street.  Bond  Street  had  half-a-dozen  dining- 
houses,  such  as  MoUoy's  Tower  Hotel,  the  Blenheim 
Coffee-house  (a  "  very  aristocratic  house "  when 
Fosbury  kept  it  in  the  Waterloo  year),  and  the 
Green  Man,  described  by  the  author  of  **  The 
Epicure's  Almanack,"  as  "  fashionable  but  cheap." 
But  though  they  dined  at  the  Green  Man  when 
their  ready  money  was  running  short,  modish 
gentlemen  did  not  like  to  be  seen  coming  out  of 
a  place  so  decidedly  inferior  to  "  the  Blenheim." 
"  When  you  come  out,"  says  the  particular  snob 
of   the    period,    who    compiled    "  The    Epicure's 


250  A   BOOK  ABOUT  THE   TABLE, 

Almanack,"  (1815),  "you  of  course  mix  with  the 
lounging,  well-dressed  mob,  and  not  a  soul  will 
surmise  that  you  have  not  dined  at  a  sumptuous 
table-d^hotey  Gunter  in  Berkeley  Square  served 
dinners  to  gentlemen  of  quality  on  his  premises, 
before  the  development  of  the  club-house  system 
deprived  him  of  the  most  lucrative  part  of  his 
original  business. 

At  the  present  time,  no  loiterer  about  town  would 
walk  northward  from  Pall  Mall  to  seek  a  pleasant  din- 
ner at  a  tavern  or  traiteur^s  shop  near  Manchester 
Square.  But  sixty  years  since  the  neighbourhood  of 
this  square,  on  the  north  of  Oxford  Street,  abounded 
with  cooks  and  confectioners  of  high  credit  in 
gastronomic  circles  who,  whilst  "  sending  "  dinners 
**  in  "  to  the  houses  of  their  patrons,  were  keepers 
of  public  eating-rooms.  Indeed,  Manchester  Square 
was  emphatically  the  quarter  for  French  dinners. 
Parmentier,  whilom  confectioner  to  the  Prince 
Regent  and  Dukes  of  York  and  Kent,  had  his 
place  of  business  at  9,  Edward  Street,  Manchester 
Square.  Romualdo  (the  Signer)  flourished  at  29, 
Duke  Street,  next  door  to  Morin,  the  superlative 
excellence  of  whose  cuisine  was  attributed  chiefly  to 
the  attention  he  paid  to  the  health  of  his  "  tasting  " 
cooks.  "The  dinners,"  a  contemporary  author 
observes  of  M.  Morin's  treatment  of  his  servants, 
*'  are  cooked  by  French  artistes,  who  are  at  stated 


FRENCH   HOUSES.  251 

times  carefully  physicked  and  dieted,  in  order  to 
preserve  their  palate  in  all  its  delicacy  of  tact. 
This  is  a  most  essential  precaution,  not  sufficiently 
attended  to  by  our  Amphitryons,  as  the  frequent 
chagrins  over  dinners  overdone  or  underdone  pal- 
pably demonstrate.'*  The  writer  adds,  "  The  wines 
are  excellent,  Monsieur  and  Madame  Morin  being 
natives  of  France  !"  Another  of  the  French  cooks 
of  this  district  was  Monsieur  Romaingoux  who, 
besides  entertaining  customers  at  his  own  residence, 
condescended  to  officiate  as  occasional  chef  in 
private  families.  Romaingoux  lived  at  36,  George 
Street,  where  he  had  for  a  near  neighbour 
Mohammed,  "  the  native  of  Asia,"  who  was  incom- 
parably great  in  curries,  and  kept  an  eating-house 
for  nabobs  and  other  connoisseurs  of  Oriental 
cookery. 

A  considerable  proportion,  perhaps  the  majority, 
of  the  French  cooks  established  as  restaurateurs 
in  London  at  the  opening  of  the  present  century, 
had  studied  the  mysteries  of  their  art  in  the 
kitchens  of  the  ancien  regime^  whose  chefs  and 
culinary  traditions  were  scattered  over  the  earth's 
surface  by  the  revolutionary  tempest.  Pleasant 
stories  could  be  told  of  the  fidelity  with  which 
some  of  these  cooks  served  without  fee,  and 
shielded  from  destitution  the  masters  whom  they 
had   followed    into    exile.      For  the  few    French 


252  A    BOOK   ABOUT   THE   TABLE. 

chevaliers  who,  like  M.  d'Albignac,  supported 
themselves  in  this  country  by  culinary  practice, 
there  were  viany  who  were  saved  from  abject  need 
by  the  exertions  and  generosity  of  their  former 
kitchen-servants. 

At  the  opening  of  the  present  century,  London 
had  only  three  of  its  existing  club-houses. 
White's,  Boodle's  and  Brooks's.  The  "Alfred" 
was  established  in  1808,  the  "Guards"  in  1810. 
The  next  thirty  years  of  London's  story  were  alike 
remarkable  for  the  rapid  extension  of  the  club- 
house system,  and  the  rapid  decadence  of  cookery 
at  public  dining-rooms.  In  1840  the  town  had 
twenty  west-end  clubs.  The  great  co-operative 
movement  was  not  more  beneficial  to  younger  sons 
than  injurious  to  gastronomic  interests.  By  with- 
drawing from  the  public  dining-rooms  precisely 
the  class  of  customers  who  were  best  able  to 
stimulate  and  reward  the  ingenuity  of  cooks,  the 
new  clubs  were  disastrous  to  the  London  restau- 
rants. Whilst  the  keepers  of  our  best  eating- 
houses  fell  into  bankruptcy  or  urgent  difl&culties 
from  the  desertion  of  their  niost  liberal  patrons, 
their  cooks  languished  from  want  of  sympathy  and 
critical  praise.  A  single  trade,  or  rather  let  us 
say  the  flower  of  a  single  profession,  sufi^ered  from 
co-operation  then,  just  as  all  the  retail  traders  of 
the  town  are  suffering  from  it  now.     The  French 


INFLUENCE   OF   CLUB-irOUSES.  353 

houses  north  of  Oxford  Street  died  out  one  after 
another.  Gloom  and  wretchedness  settled  on  the 
hotels  of  Leicester  Square,  which  from  being  the 
haunts  of  our  richest  gourmets  became  mere  eating- 
houses  for  exiles.  At  the  same  time  the  May-Fair 
restaurateurs  put  up  their  shutters,  or  adapting 
themselves  to  the  new  order  of  things  made 
strenuous  efforts  to  drive  a  larger  trade,  as  con- 
fectioners and  providers  of  rout-suppers  and  wed- 
ding-breakfasts, whilst  they  ceased  to  serve  dinners 
on  their  premises. 

Whilst  cookery  for  the  public  has  languished 
under  the  cold  shadow  of  the  clubs,  the  culinary 
art  cannot  be  said  to  have  flourished  in  the  joint- 
stock  palaces.  The  conditions  and  influences  of 
the  club-system  check  the  zeal  and  lower  the 
ambition  of  cooks,  who  more  than  all  other  artistes 
need  the  stimulus  of  sympathy  and  commendation. 
The  club-cook  is  the  servant  of  a  committee,  pro- 
verbially the  coldest  and  least  conscientious  of 
employers,  and  however  desirous  it  may  be  to 
foster  gastronomic  art,  a  committee  can  never 
detect  a  chefs  merits  so  readily,  or  acknowledge 
them  so  aptly  and  seasonably  as  a  single  ruler 
could  do. 

On  first  entering  the  service  of  a  club,  the  young 
and  ardent  chef  may  strive  for  the  appreciation  of 
his  new  patrons.     He  may  cherish  a  lofty  purpose 


254  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

of  extending  the  bounds  of  his  art,  and  of  making 
his  kitchen  a  nursery  of  rising  artistes.  But  this 
enthusiasm  soon  disappears  under  the  annoyances 
and  depressing  circumstances  of  his  position.  The 
committee  accepts  his  efforts  as  a  matter  of  course. 
Now  and  then  it  may  give  him  a  phrase  of  formal 
commendation,  when  he  has  glorified  a  house- 
dinner  with  a  new  invention,  or  lavished  super- 
human energies  on  a  ceremonious  banquet.  But 
for  every  time  when  he  thus  extorts  a  frigid  acknow- 
ledgment of  his  merits,  there  arise  a  dozen  occasions 
when  he  is  summoned  before  his  special  "  board" 
to  answer  some  groundless  complaint  from  a 
dissatisfied,  because  dyspeptic,  diner.  Your  habitual 
club-grumbler  is  largely  accountable  for  the  failings 
of  the  kitchen  which  he  thinks  to  reform  and  elevate 
by  his  querulousness.  When  he  chuckles  over  the 
apparent  success  of  his  last  "complaint  of  the 
general  badness  of  the  dinners,"  and  congratulates 
himself  on  having  got  the  cook  "  another  wigging 
from  the  committiee,"  the  grumbler  should  be 
informed  that  a  ''wigging  from  the  committee" 
only  disheartens  an  honest  chef,  instead  of  "  whip- 
ping him  up,"  and  that  whilst  extinguishing  all 
generous  zeal  in  his  breast,  it  only  tends  to 
make  him  more  studious  to  avoid  blame  by  mediocre 
eflBciency  than  to  extort  homage  by  superlative 
success. 


ABSBNOE   OP   EIVALRY.  255 

Again,  our  club-cooks  suffer  from  the  want  of 
that  rivalry  which  stimulates  the  chefs  of  competing 
restaurateurs  to  surpass  one  another  in  skill  and 
inventiveness.  However  exceptional  his  endow- 
ments, the  chef  seldom  raises  the  number  of  dinners 
ordered  at  his  club.  Even  when  it  disposes  a  few 
members  to  dine  at  their  club  more  frequently  than 
they  would  otherwise  do,  his  excellence  cannot 
affect  the  life  of  other  joint- stock  houses.  He  is, 
therefore,  denied  the  triumphant  excitements  of  the 
chef  whose  renown  draws  to  a  public  restaurant  the 
ancient  supporters  of  rival  establishments. 

Chilled  by  his  committee,  harassed  by  his 
grumblers  and  hopeless  of  fame,  the  club  chef,  if  he 
perseveres  in  a  thankless  office,  soon  becomes  a 
mere  artiste  of  routine.  He  may  escape  frequent 
censures  by  the  general  fairness  and  evenness  of 
his  cookery,  but  he  never  wins,  and  seldom  merits, 
the  applause  of  connoisseurs. 

It  is  needless  to  add  that  to  justify  his  high 
opinion  of  our  cookery,  M.  Dubois  would  point  to 
the  tables  of  those  members  of  our  affluent  classes 
who  are  of  opinion  that  to  "  live  wisely"  it  is  need- 
ful to  '*  live  well." 


256 


CHAPTER  XIIL 

THE  FOLK-LORE  OF  FEEDING. 

*'  To  give  Bubtilty  to  the  simple,  to  the  young  man  knowledge  and 
discretion. 

"  Better  is  a  dinner  of  herbs  where  love  is,  than  a  stalled  ox  and 
hatred  therewith." 

Solomon's  "Proverbs." 

"  La  d^converte  d'un  mets  nouveau  fait  pins  pour  le  bonbenr 
da  genre  humainquelad^couverted'unedtoile." — Baillat-Sayarik's 
"  Aphorisms.*' 

"  TINOUGH  is  as  good  as  a  feast  "  holds  a  chief 
^  place  amongst  proverbs  in  favour  of  mode- 
ration, though  a  perverse  epicure  argued  from  it 
that  anything  less  than  a  feast  could  not  be  enough. 
The  philosopher  who  originated  the  adage  left  too 
much  to  individual  discretion ;  for  whilst  a  feast  is 
an  uncertain  measure,  learned  authorities  differ  as 
to  what  amounts  to  enough.  When  little  Oliver 
asked  for  more,  he  was  supposed  to  have  had 
*'  enough,"  though  the  general  sentiment  favoured 
his  demand.  In  seeking  how  much  constituted  a 
feast  in  olden  time,  we  derive  no  assistance  from 
the  maxim,  "  There  is  little  difference  between  a 
feast  and  a  belly-full."  For  bellies  are  of  various 
capacities*  When  the  Abb^  de  Voisenon  was  directed 


IN   FAVOUR   OF   TEMPERANCE,  257 

to  drink  a  quart  of  ptisan  every  hour,  he  protested 
pathetically  to  his  doctor,  "  Ah,  my  friend,  how  can 
you  desire  me  to  swallow  a  quart  an  hour?  I  hold 
but  a  pint.^^  On  the  other  hand,  the  famous  glutton 
of  Kent,  elevated  by  Fuller  to  a  place  amongst  the 
worthies,  could  devour  with  ease  at  a  single  meal 
thirty  dozen  pigeons,  and  rise  with  an  appetite  from 
a  repast  consisting  of  "  fourscore  rabbits  and 
eighteen  yards  of  black  pudding,  London  measure." 
Moreover,  the  adage  is  less  an  utterance  of  popular 
wisdom  than  the  brutish  sentiment  of  some  dull 
glutton  who,  caring  chiefly  to  gorge  himself,  was 
indifferent  to  the  quality  of  his  food. 

Another  of  our  familiar  adages  in  favour  of  tem- 
perance is,  "  Bat  to  live,  but  do  not  live  to  eat,"  a 
sentiment  which  so  astounded  a  French  epicure 
that  he  exclaimed,  with  a  look  of  amazement,  **  Mon 
Dieu  !  what  on  earth  then  should  we  live  for  ?"  In 
the  same  class  should  be  placed  such  wholesome 
maxima  as,  "  Much  meat,  much  maladies,"  "  More 
meat,  less  manners,"  "  Spare  dinner,  spare  doc- 
tor," and  **  Too  much  pudding  will  choke  a  dog." 
Another  version  of  the  order  to  keep  the  doctor  off* 
by  habitual  moderation  at  table  is,  "  Feed  sparingly, 
and  defy  the  physician." 

Akin  tp  these  adages  in  favour  of  temperance  are 
the  maxims  which  prefer  a  homely  diet,  with  con- 
tentment, to  the  luxurious  fare  of  high  tables.   Folk- 

VOL.   II.  s 


258  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

lore  declares  *•  Dry  bread  at  home  is  better  than 
roast  meat  abroad,"  a  statement  deficient  in  truth, 
whether  it  be  taken  literally  or  figuratively.  Some 
poor  fellows,  like  Jeremy  Taylor's  hen-pecked  hus- 
band, have  found  dry  bread  abroad  better  than 
roast  meat  at  home.  In  like  manner  we  are  told, 
"  A  bean  at  liberty  is  better  than  a  comfit  in  prison," 
whereto  the  distressingly  prosaic  Lord  North  is 
said  to  have  remarked  that  he  should  not  care  to 
eat  a  comfit  out  of  prison,  a  critical  objection  to  be 
coupled  with  that  of  another  lover  of  plain  speech, 
who,  on  hearing  it  said  "  He  that  eats  the  king's 
goose  shall  be  choked  with  the  feathers,"  confessed 
he  could  not  see  how  that  could  be,  as  the  feathers 
of  a  goose  were  never  brought  to  table.  It  may 
be  left  to  the  antiquaries  to  dispute  whether  this 
adage  of  warning  against  the  perils  of  intercourse 
with  monarchs  dates  from  the  time  when  the  king's 
goose,  like  his  peacock,  was  often  served  in  its 
hackel.  The  proverb  which  declares  the  goose 
a  foolish  bird  has  been  mentioned  in  an  earlier 
chapter. 

Some  of  the  old  sayings  about  meals  are  unsocial, 
whilst  others  are  of  sordid  meanness.  None  but  a 
churl  was  the  first  to  remark,  *'  Scald  not  your  lips 
with  another  man's  pottage,"  as  though  a  friendly 
meal  at  a  neighbour's  board  must  necessarily  occa- 
sion harm  ;  and  none  but  a  sponging  parasite  struck 


fiddler's  PA.RE.  259 

out  the  miserly  saying,  "  The  wholesomest  meat  is 
at  another's  man's  cost,"  a  mode  of  regarding  hos- 
pitality, by-the-by,  which  Sheridan  relieved  of 
abject  niggardliness,  and  clothed  with  piquant 
humour,  when  he  said  he  could  drink  with  advantage 
any  "  given  quantity"  of  wine.  Again,  there  is 
scarcely  more  of  truth  than  of  swinish  voracity  in 
"  The  belly  is  not  filled  with  fair  words,"  which  is 
only  an  unmannerly  version  of  "  Apologies  butter 
no  parsnips,"  and  "Great  boast  and  small  roast 
make  unsavoury  mouths." 

The  disorder  and  defective  service  which  usually 
distinguished  the  grand  feasts  of  olden  time  are 
commemorated  in  such  proverbs  as  "  There  is  no 
great  banquet  but  some  fare  ill,"  and  "  The  more 
the  merrier,  the  fewer  the  better  cheer."  But  how- 
ever large  the  company,  or  scanty  the  provision,  at 
least  one  humble  contributor  to  the  merriment  re- 
ceived proper  attention.  The  ubiquitous  fiddler  had 
his  proverbial  "  fare :  meat,  drink,  and  money," 
whoever  else  was  put  off  with  short  commons. 
Of  mirth,  by  the  way,  there  was  seldom  any 
deficiency  at  the  popular  festivals  of  olden  time. 
"Better  be  meals  many  than  one  too  merry," 
observed  a  philosopher  who  had  learnt  from  ex- 
perience that  excessive  hilarity  was  apt  to  generate 
broils. 

Whilst    folk-lore  urged    men    to    be    moderate 

s  2 


260  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

feeders  for  their  health's  sake,  it  was  not  less  par- 
ticular in  commending  abstinence   for  economical 
reasons.     "A  fat  housekeeper  made  lean  execu- 
tors;" and  "A  fat  kitchen,  a  lean  will."     At  the 
same  time  it  was  better  for  a  man  to  ruin  himself 
by  lavish  hospitality  and  incessant  feasting  than  by 
extravagance  in  costume.     "  Silks  and  satins  put 
out  the  kitchen  6re."     "  To  pinch  the  belly  in  order 
to  flatter  the  back,"  was  derided  by  our  forefathers 
as  a  course  of  egregious    vanity  that  Frenchmen 
might  take,  but  Englishmen  should  avoid. 

Some  of  our  old  sayings  about  particular  meats 
convey  good  counsel,  or  illustrate  ancient  usages  of 
the  table,  though  it  must  be  confessed  that  a  few  of 
them  fail  to  support  the  assertion  that  a  proverb  is 
the  wit  of  one  man  and  the  wisdom  of  many.  Notice 
has  already  been  taken  of  the  wholesome  advice 
given  in  "  He  that  would  live  for  aye  must  eat  sage 
(or  salad)  in  May."     There  is  truth  in  the  adage, 
**  Like  lips  like  lettuce :  a  thistle  is  a  salad  fit  for 
an  ass's  mouth,"  another  version  of  which  is  *'  A 
donkey  likes  thistles,  hecause  he  is  an  ass."     But 
one  is  at  a  loss  to  discover  either  wit  or  wisdom  in 
"  Butter  is  gold  in  the  morning,  silver  at  noon,  lead 
at  night."     And  how  comes  it,  if  butter  is  depressing 
at  night,  that  an  Qgg^  whose  yolk  is  a  ball  of  oil, 
should  be  recommended  for  eating  at  the  same  time, 
as  it  is  in  "  An  egg  and  to  bed."     Why  a  man 


BUTTER   AND    CHEESE.  261 

should  take  an  egg  before  going  to  bed,  or  go  to 
bed  immediately  after  taking  an  egg^  is  a  question 
still  to  be   answered.     Lord   Dundreary   suggests 
"  That  he  may  hatch  it,'*  a  suggestion  worthy  of 
that  nobleman's  sagacity,  though  not  quite  satis- 
factory.    That    bread-and-butter    was    no    highly 
esteemed  diet  in  olden  time  may  be  inferred  from 
**  They  that  have  no  other  meat,  bread-and-butter 
are  glad  to  eat,"  the  wit   and  wisdom   of  which 
remark  may  be  supplemented  with  the  well-known 
saying  of  the  Princess  of  France,   who  held  that 
when  they  could  not  get  bread,  people  should  make 
shift  with  cake.     **That  which  will  not  be  butter, 
must  be  made  into  cheese,"  must  have  originated  in 
Suffolk,  long  infamous  for  its  hard,  homy,  flet-milk 
cheeses,  which  Swift  called  "  cart-wheels,"  and  farm-, 
labourers   designate   "  bang."      Another   food   for 
humble  folk  is  honoured  in  the  saying,  "  Good  kail 
{i.e.,  pottage)  is  half  a  meal,"  and  •*  Poor  folks  are. 
glad  of  pottage."     With  more  of  justice  to  plain, 
than  of  gallantry  to  well-looking  women,  proverbial 
philosophy  teaches,  "  Prettiness  makes  no  pottage," 
a  sentiment  that  would  be  unobjectionable,  were  it 
not  for  a  spiteful  insinuation  against  the  pretty  girls 
who,  in  language  which  Lord  Justice  Knight  Bruce 
might  have  used,  may  rejoin,  "  But  to  make  good 
pottage  it  is  not  necessary  that  a  woman  should  be 
ugly."     To  the  honour  of  deer's  flesh,  and  in  apology 


262  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

for  inferior  viands,  our  ancestors  used  to  say,  "  All 
flesh  is  not  venison,"  a  sententious  truism  whose 
style  was  borrowed  from  "  All  flesh  is  grass,"  which 
Lady  Lytton  parodied  with  "  All  man  is  beast,"  in 
a  novel  that  she  wrote  to  the  annoyance  of  her 
husband.  The  one  small  grain  of  truth  which  lurks 
in  the  great  lie,  "  The  nearer  the  bone  the  sweeter 
the  meat,"  appears  in  the  fact  that  the  outer  slice 
of  a  roast  is  drier  and  less  tasteful  than  the  interior 
meat.  The  adage,  however,  is  in  favour  with 
domestic  economists  who  like  to  scrape  every  scrap 
of  food  from  their  ribs  of  beef,  and  who,  of  course, 
approve  the  saying,  "  When  the  shoulder  of  mutton 
is  going,  it  is  good  to  take  a  slice."  A  difierent 
opinion  was  held  of  this  poor  joint  by  the  club- 
swell  who,  in  one  of  "  Punch's"  old  volumes,  ob- 
served languidly  that  he  had  always  thought  it  the 
material  used  for  making  glue.  More  humour  and 
critical  knowledge  appear  in  the  statement,  "  A 
shoulder  of  veal  has  twenty  and  two  good  bits," 
i.e.y  twenty-two  pieces,  of  which  only  two  are  good. 
All  the  cuts  of  leg  of  mutton  were  esteemed,  except 
one,  the  first,  "  The  cut  that  is  worst  of  a  leg  is  the 
first."  The  love  of  solids,  and  the  corresponding 
disdain  for  whipped  sillabubs  and  other  frothy  trifles, 
are  expressed  in  "  There's  no  deceit  in  a  bag- 
pudding."  "  Two  plum-puddings  are  better  than 
one,"  cannot  be  older  than  the  beginning  of  the 


AGAINST   COOKERY-BOOKS.  263 

eighteenth,  or  the  end  of  the  seventeenth  century, 
when  plum  -  puddings  first  became  universally 
popular.  It  is  needless  to  remind  the  reader  of 
Misson's  remarks  on  the  English  passion  for  pud- 
ding, which  gave  birth  to  the  phrase,  "  In  time  for 
pudding,"  i.e.,  for  dinner.  But  the  best  of  all  our 
ancestors'  saws  about  pudding  is  the  second  line  of 
the  couplet,  in  which  a  practical  cook  declared  her 
contempt  for  the  rules  and  theories  of  cookery- 
books, 

"  Oh,  bother  your  books  and  all  their  receipting. 
The  proof  of  the  pudding  is  in  the  eating." 

After  pudding  comes  cheese,  and,  says  proverbial 
wisdom,  **  After  cheese  comes  nothing,"  an  adage 
which  might  have  been  adduced  in  illustration  of 
our  remarks  on  the  service  of  cheese  at  dessert. 
•*  Bread  with  eyes,  and  cheese  with  eyes"  must  have 
attained  proverbial  dignity  in  the  days  of  universal 
prejudice  against  unleavened  bread,  and  general 
ignorance  of  Gruyfere  cheese. 

Though  old  folk-lore  admitted  that  "  a  bit  in  the 
morning  was  better  than  nothing  all  day  long," 
and  that  a  diet  of  light  meals  taken  frequently  was 
eflficacious  for  bringing  the  lean  to  condition  ("  Often 
and  little  eating  makes  a  man  fat"),  it  seldom  spoke 
civilly  of  mere  "  snacks,"  which  none  but  children 
should  be  encouraged  to  take : — "  A  child  and  a 


264  A   BOOK   ABOUT   TBE   TABLK. 

chicken  must  always  be  picking."  Sayings  of 
modern  folk-lore,  "  If  I  were  to  fast  for  my  life, 
I  would  eat  a  good  breakfast  in  the  morning,"  and, 
"  He  that  would  eat  a  good  dinner,  let  him  eat  a 
good  breakfast,"  are  probably  not  older  than  the 
eighteenth  century.  The  meals  honoured  by  folk- 
lore were  dinner  and  supper,  the  mid-day  dinner, 
&!leT  which  the  husbandman  rested  awhile  before 
resuming  his  labour ;  and  six  o'clock  supper,  which 
he  followed  up  by  running  a  mile  to  call  on  his 
neighbours,  or  join  in  the  sports  of  the  common- 
green.  The  dinner,  especially  commended  by 
frugal  makers  of  proverbs,  was  a  meal  of  few 
dainties  and  short  duration: — "Dinners  cannot  be 
long  where  dainties  want."  In  their  meanest  and 
most  parsimonious  temper  they  would  add,  "  He 
that  saveth  his  dinner  will  have  more  for  supper." 
It  was  of  the  six  o'clock  supper  that  folk-lore  re- 
marked, "  Who  goes  to  bed  supperless,  all  night 
tumbles  and  tosses."  Our  grandfathers  knew  right 
well  that  the  rear-supper  was  not  conducive  to 
"  eweet  repose." 

Folk-lore  is  especially  didactic,  and  slightly 
m  demeanour  at  table.  "  Meat  is  much, 
rs  are  more,"  said  the  proverbial  wise- 
>  insisted  that  at  meals  children — not 
;hildren,  but  all  persons  whose  parents 
Ds  were  present — should  be  "  seen  and 


MANNERLY   AND    UNMANNERLY   PROVERBS.         265 

not  heard.'*  Even  the  elders  of  a  party  were  en- 
joined to  be  orderly  and  discreet  in  their  speech. 
**  It  was  good  to  be  merry  at  meat,"  but  good 
manners  enjoined  people  to  be  wise  as  well  as  merry. 
Uproarious  hilarity  was  highly  reprehensible. 
**  None,"  said  the  mannerists,  "  but  fools  and 
fiddlers  sing  at  their  meat."  "  Cease  your  chatter 
and  mind  your  platter,"  and  "  The  ass  that  bays 
most  eats  least,"  were  two  of  several  sayings  by 
which  they  taught  people  to  refrain  from  super- 
fluous conversation,  whilst  performing  the  most 
serious  business  of  the  day.  There  were  times  at 
table  when  a  wise  man  should  be  slow  to  speak, 
but  none  when  he  should  be  slow  to  satisfy  his 
hunger.  "  Never  be  ashamed  to  eat  your  meat." 
It  was  good  manners,  and  at  the  same  time  good 
policy,  in  a  host  to  give  the  tit-bits  of  a  joint  to 
the  guest  who  had  contributed  it  to  the  feast — 
"  Who  gives  the  capon,  give  him  the  leg  and  wing/' 
or,  according  to  another  version  of  the  same  rule, 
"  The  wing  with  the  liver  for  him  who's  the  giver." 
It  was  execrably  bad  manners  for  a  company  to  eat 
up  all  the  fare,  leaving  nothing  for  the  servants. 
•*  He,"  says  an  old  saw,  "  can  give  little  to  his 
servant  who  licks  his  own  trencher."  The  remnants 
of  a  feast,  which  came  as  official  perquisites  to  the 
servants,  were  called  "  manners ;"  and  they  were 
rated  as  "  good  manners,"  or  "  bad  manners,"  in 


266  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

proportion  as  they  exhibited  consideration  or  dis- 
regard, on  the  part  of  the  feasters,  for  the  feelings 
and  just  claims  of  servitors.  It  was  bad  manners 
to  take  the  last  piece  but  one  from  a  dish;  and 
extremely  bad  manners  for  a  guest  to  take  the  very 
last.  The  spinster,  guilty  of  the  former  offence, 
would  not  marry  for  a  year;  guilty  of  the  latter 
outrage,  she  would  die  an  old  maid,  and  afterwards 
"  lead  apes  in  hell."  Jack  Sprat  and  his  wife  were 
an  harmonious  and  mutually  accommodating  couple ; 
but  they  were  vulgar  people.  Had  they  lived  in  good 
society,  the  one  might  have  loved  fat  and  the  other 
have  loved  lean,  but  they  would  not  have  licked 
their  platters  clean. 

Housekeepers  were  admonished  to  "  go  early  to 
the  fish-market  and  late  to  the  shambles,"  in  order 
to  get  a  good  choice  of  the  more  perishable  food, 
and  buy  odd  pieces  of  flesh-meat  for  a  trifle  more 
than  a  song.  Cooks  were  told  that  "  fish  make  no 
broth,"  a  saying  which  must  have  arisen  in  a  recent 
time,  for,  as  we  have  seen,  the  old  English  were 
habitual  makers  of  fish-potage.  They  were  also 
instructed  that  "  he  who  would  have  a  hare  for 
breakfast  must  hunt  overnight,"  by  which  maxim, 
for  the  benefit  of  improvident  housekeepers,  we  are 
reminded  of  tJie  sentiment  which  cannot  be  found  in 
Mrs.  Glasse's  "Cookery  Book."  Prudence  and 
contentment  are  inculcated  by  the  adage,  "  If  thou 


FOE  THE  GOOD  OP  COOKS.  267 

hast  not  a  capon,  feed  on  an  onion ;"  and  whilst 
telling  people  to  cut  their  clothes  according  to  their 
cloth,  and  to  live  within  their  means,  folk-lore 
urged  them  to  be  content  with  thin  porridge  if  they 
could  not  afford  thick.  At  the  same  time,  when 
they  had  abundance  they  might  fare  abundantly, 
"  He  who  hathe  much  pease  may  put  more  in  the 
pot."  In  restraint  of  profuseness,  the  common 
fault  of  hosts  in  the  olden  time,  folk-lore  said, 
"  New  meat  needs  new  appetite."  It  had  also 
excellent  maxims  for  cooks,  who  were  enjoined  to 
be  clean,  good-tempered,  and  mindful  of  their  fires, 
which  should  be  clear  and  smokeless.  "  He  who 
boils  his  pot  with  chips,  makes  his  broth  smell  of 
smoke."  There  were  only  three  things  that  a  nice 
feeder  might  take  from  a  cook,  deficient  in  the 
virtue  which  Wesley  placed  next  to  godliness : 
"  An  apple,  an  egg^  and  a  nut,  you  may  ejit  after  a 
slut."  Whilst  ladies  were  bound  to  keep  their 
tempers  "  e*en  though  china  fell,"  the  model  cook 
was  required  to  be  cheerful  under  every  mishap  and 
vexation.  She  might  not  "  cry  over  spilt  milk," 
or  wax  impatient  at  the  churn.  She  was  told, 
**  Don't  swear,  or  the  butter  won't  come."  The  pot 
would  never  boil  if  she  stood  over  it  fretting  and 
fuming  because  th9  liquor  was  so  slow  to  "  simper" 
and  bubble :  "  The  watched  pot  boileth  not."  The 
only  sharp  and  sour  thing  about  her  should  be  the 


268  A    BOOK   ABOUT  THE   TABLE. 

sauce  which  she  puts  to  sweet  meat ;  "  Sweet  meat 
must  have  sour  sauce."  Folk-lore  even  went  so  far 
as  to  declare  "  Good  cooks  always  have  good 
tempers,"  an  egregiously  untrue  statement,  for 
clever  and  zealous  cooks,  like  all  nervous  workers 
whose  employment  involves  much  anxiety  and 
frequent  disappointments,  are  a  highly  irritable 
class.  As  a  general  rule,  it  may  be  asserted 
confidently  that  good  cooks  never  have  perfect  or 
fairly  smooth  tempers.  Acting  on  this  rule  as 
though  it  had  no  exceptions,  a  famous  epicure,  on 
examining  candidates  for  the  vacant  chiefship  of  his 
kitchen,  used  to  open  each  examination  with  the 
inquiry,  "  Have  you  a  good  temper  ?"  If  the 
candidate  replied  "yes,"  the  questioner  rejoined, 
**  Then  be  off  with  you ;  for  you  can't  be  a  good 
cook."  In  defence  of  his  process,  this  eccentric 
epicure  used  to  say,  "  Good  cooks  always  have 
execrable  tempers  ;  and,  what  is  more,  they  are  so 
proud  of  their  defect  that  nothing  would  induce  a 
competent  chef  to  avow  himself  a  good-tempered 
fellow." 

For  the  most  part  a  rigid,  and  even  stingy, 
economist  of  good  things  taken  from  larder  and 
buttery,  folk-lore,  with  all  its  dislike  of  wastefulness 
and  its  disposition  towards  frugality,  now  and  then 
affords  us  a  liberal  maxim.  For  instance,  whilst 
respecting  the  rights  of  servants  to  manners,  it  tells 


A   WAENING   AND   A   HINT.  269 

US  to  "  Take  heed  of  enemies  reconciled  and  meat 
twice  boiled."  From  another  of  its  precepts  it  may 
be  inferred  that  the  parsimonious  housekeeper  had 
better  serve  his  recooked  meats  in  the  first  course. 
The  r^chauff(6,  which  opens  a  feast,  may  escape 
suspicion  and  even  win  approval ;  for,  says  folk-lore, 
'*  the  first  dish  pleaseth  all." 


270  . 


CHAPTER  XIV. 

EPICURES. 

*'  La  digestion  est  rafiaire  de  Testomac,  et  les  indigestions  sont 
oelle  des  medecins." — Almanach  pes  Gourhands. 

"  La  table  est  le  seal  en  droit  ou  Ton  ne  s'ennoie  jamais  pendant 
la  premiere  heure." — Phtsiologib  dd  Gout. 

**  Je  yeuz  que  la  mort  me  Irappe 
Au  milieu  d*un  grand  repas ; 
Qa*on  m'enterre  sous  la  nappe 
Entre  quatre  larges  plats, 
£t  que  snr  ma  tombe  on  mette 
Cette  courte  inscription, 
•  Ci-git  le  premier  po^te 
Mort  d'ane  indigestion.' " 

"AUSSITOT  QUE  LA  LuMliRE.' 


f* 


"T  E  plaisirde  table,"  says  Brillat-Savarin,  *''  est  de 
^  tous  les  ages,  de  toutes  les  conditions,  de  tons 
les  pays,  et  de  tous  les  jours ;  il  peut  s'associer  a  tous 
les  autres  plaisirs,  et  reste  le  dernier  pour  nous 
consoler  de  leur  perte."  If  the  sterner  sex  has 
furnished  us  with  the  most  brilliant  examples  of 
devotion  to  good  cheer,  not  a  few  women  have 
distinguished  themselves  by  epicurean  daintiness. 
Though  fastidious  gulosity  exhibits  itself  most 
strikingly  in  riper  age,  the  appetite  for  food, 
naturally  active  in  vigorous  and  quickly  growing 


PBOMISING   CHILDREN.  271 

creatures,  is  sometimes  united  in  tender  children 
with  precociobs  discernment  and  significant  en- 
thusiasm. There  are  parents  who  on  moral  grounds 
foster  daintiness  in  their  nurseries,  arguing  that 
children  are  less  prone  to  gluttony  in  proportion  to 
their  taste  for  elegant  *'  gourmandise." 

Grimod  de  la  Reyniere  mentions  with  approval  a 
little  girl  who,  on  hearing  her  father  question  whether 
hearty  eating  was  more  productive  of  happiness 
than  dainty  feeding,  observed  gravely  and  thought- 
fully, "  For  myself,  papa,  I  prefer  to  be  dainty,  for 
so  I  preserve  my  hunger."  The  sire  had  cause  to 
exult  in  the  child  who  could  see  thus  clearly  that 
hunger  should  be  trifled  with  rather  than  satisfied, 
that  it  was  a  blessing  to  be  preserved  rather  than 
an  inconvenience  to  be  extinguished.  So  intelligent 
and  temperate  a  damsel  can  scarcely  have  been  the 
sister  of  the  greedy  little  boy  who,  according  to 
Brillat- Savarin,  wept  bitterly  and  loudly  towards  the 
close  of  a  grand  meal.  "  My  dear  boy,  what  is  the 
matter  ?'*  asked  one  of  the  elder  guests  at  the  table. 
"I  cannot  eat  any  more,"  responded  the  young 
glutton.  **  Well,  well,"  rejoined  the  senior  gour- 
mand pitifully,  "  dry  your  tears,  my  brave  lad,  and 
fill  your  pockets."  Instead  of  deriving  comfort 
and  diversion  of  thought  from  this  kindly  sugges- 
tion, the  sufferer,  uttering  a  yet  louder  wail  of  an- 
guish, exclaimed,  "  I  can't,  I  can't,  they  are  full 


272  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

already."  By  the  way,  a  version  of  this  story  may 
be  found  in  a  memoir  of  Beau  Brumoiell  by  a  serious 
tract-writer  who,  having  treated  the  incident  as  an 
occurrence  of  the  Beau's  childhood,  insists  that  the 
boy's  subsequent  frivolity  and  worldliness  were  the 
logical  results  of  the  parental  indulgence  which  only 
laughed  at  the  greediness  that  should  have  been 
corrected  with  a  whipping. 

Brillat-Savarin  insisted  that  "  gourmandise"  was 
becoming  in  women.  Agreeing  with  the  delicacy  of 
their  organs,  it  gave  them  liberal  compensation  for 
certain  pleasures  denied  to  their  sex.  He  main- 
tains that  a  lovely  woman  never  looks  more  lovely 
than  when  "  under  arms,"  sitting  in  full  toilet  at  a 
brightly-furnished  table,  and  putting  between  the 
mobile  lips  of  her  saucy  mouth  the  viands  and  wines 
that,  raising  at  the  same  time  the  brilliancy  of  her 
eyes  and  the  warmer  tints  of  her  delicate  com- 
plexion, ajnimate  her  to  scatter  sparkling  railleries 
around  her  during  the  intervals  between  courses. 

Alexandre  Dumas  was  scarcely  justified  in  attri- 
buting Eve's  great  disobedience  to  gastronomic 
desire,  but  he  had  sufficient  authority  for  placing 
Queen  Anne  of  England  amongst  modern  women 
famous  for  their  patronage  of  the  "  generous  art." 
Whilst  our  cookery-books  of  the  eighteenth  century 
preserve  this  sovereign's  culinary  services  from 
oblivion  by   their    receipts   for  made   dishes    and 


GOOD  QUEEN  ANNE.  273 

sweets  "  after  Queen  Anne*s  fashion ;"  one  of  the 
unfeminine  propensities  attributed  to  her  by  scan- 
dalous gossip  is  commemorated  in  the  saying  which, 
with  piquant  reference  to  the  position  of  her  statue 
before   St.    PauVs   Cathedral,   likens   the  habitual 
tippler  to  "  Queen  Anne,  who  turns  her  back  on 
the   church,  and    looks    towards   the  wine-shop." 
Champagne  was  the  favourite  wine  in  which  Her 
Majesty  is  said  to  have  indulged  with  habitual  free- 
dom.    In  justice,  however,  to  this  queen  of  pro- 
verbial deadness,  it  should  be  observed  that  the 
impeachment  of  her  sobriety  is  sustained  by  no  con- 
clusive evidence.  Free  livers  delight  to  attribute  their 
own  failings  to  great  people  who  are  free  from  them. 
Till  Lord  Stanhope  relieved  Pitt's  fami  of  ground- 
less  aspersions  of  drunkenness,   it   suffered  from 
Person's  drunken  epigrams,  and  the  idle  tales  of 
pot-loving  detractors.     In  like   manner  Friedrich 
Wilhelm  the  Fourth  of  Prussia,  who,  to  use  Mr. 
Hepworth  Dixon's  words,  while  eating  (on  account 
of  his  malady)  enough  for  a  giant,  drank  no  more 
than  a  child,  suffered  from  the  inventions  of  the 
malicious  humour  that  nick-named  him  Cliquot,  and 
proclaimed  him  the  greatest  drunkard  of  Europe. 
Possibly,  Queen  Anne's  posthumous  renown  as  a 
petticoated  toss-pot  is  due  to  the  wit  of  some  French 
tourist  in  London  who,   after  visiting  St.  Paul's, 
wrote  a  saucy  paragraph  about  the  royal  lady,  "  qui 

VOL.  II.  T 


274  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

toume  le  dos  &  I'eglise  et  qui  regarde  le  marcband  de 
vin.'*  Anyhow,  her  fame  in  this  respect  would 
have  fared  none  the  worse  had  her  statue  looked 
towards  the  tea-shop  at  one,  instead  of  the  public- 
house  at  another  corner  of  the  churchyard. 

Whilst  preserving  the  libellous  proverb  against 
our  queen,  the  Parisians  have  also  a  similar  saying 
to  a  saint's  discredit.  "When  their  best  restaurants 
stood  in  the  Bue  aux  (Hes  (corrupted  to  Rue  aux 
Ours)  the  Parisians  used  to  say  of  any  gourmet^ 
**  Yoilli  un  homme  qui  a  le  nez  tourne  ^  la  friandise, 
comme  Saint  Jacque  de  THopital,"  because  the 
saint's  statue  over  the  entrance  to  the  hospital 
looked  down  the  traiteurs'  thoroughfare. 

Whilst  ascetic  scholars  have  invented  half-a-hun- 
dred  offensive  definitions  of**  gourmand"  and  "  gour- 
znandise,"  philologists,  with  a  taste  for  material  plea- 
sures, or  with  proper  charity  for  human  frailties,  have 
exercised  no  little  ingenuity  in  explaining  the  terms 
with  equal  precision  and  courtesy.  In  the  **  Syno- 
nymes,''  the  Abb^  Roubaud  distinguished  between 
the  **  gourmand,"  the  **  goinfre,"  the  "  goulu,"  and 
the  **  glouton."  Disdaining  to  contemplate  the  ex- 
cesses of  these  three  last-named  species  of  devourers, 
gastronomy  concerns  itself  only  with  the  interests 
of  "  the  gourmand,"  of  whose  pursuit  Brillat-Savarin 
remarks,  **  *  Gourmandise'  is  the  exercise  of  judg- 
ment, by  which  we  accord  preference  to  things  that 


THE  TEUB   GOUBMAND.  275 

are  agreeable  to  the  taste,  over  things  that  lack 
this  quality."  But  according  to  Grimod  de  la  Rey- 
ni^re,  to  merit  the  lofty  appellation  of  "un  vrai 
gourmand"  it  is  necessary  that  a  man  should  be 
something  more  than  a  large  consumer  and  intelli- 
gent connoisseur  of  good  cheer.  ^*  Your  true  gowr-- 
mand  is  not  merely  one  who  eats  with  profundity, 
choice,  reflection,  and  sensuality,  who  leaves  nothing 
in  plate  or  in  glass,  who  never  wounds  his  host  with 
a  refusal,  or  his  neighbour  with  sobriety.  He  should 
unite  with  a  vigorous  appetite  the  jovial  spirit,  in 
whose  absence  the  best  feast  is  but  a  mournful 
sacrifice.  Ever  quick  at  repartee,  he  should  hold  in 
continual  activity  all  the  senses  with  which  a 
bountiful  nature  has  endowed  him.  Lastly,  his 
memory  should  be  stored  with  a  multitude  of 
anecdotes,  stories,  and  amusing  tales,  which  he 
brings  forth  in  the  intervals  of  the  courses,  and  the 
brief  pauses  between  meats,  so  that  his  less  indul- 
gent companions  may,  perforce,  pardon  his  appetite." 
Dividing  the  epicures  of  the  polite  table  into  three 
distinct  species,  later  writers  distinguish  between  the 
gourmcmd  proper,  who  is  alike  exacting  of  quantity 
and  quality,  the  gourmet  who,  with  no  power  to  assi- 
milate a  vast  measure  of  nutriment,  is  far  more 
gustful  than  voracious,  though  indifferent  to  quan- 
tity, and  the  friand^  who  surpassing  the  gourmet  in 
delicacy  of  palate  and  in  physical  intolerance   of 

T  2 


276  A  BOOK  ABOUT  TOE  TABLE. 

massive  refreshment,  derives  all  his  delights  from  tit- 
bits and  subtle  flavours.  Of  course  it  is  often  difficult 
to  decide  to  which  of  these  classes  an  epicure  belongs. 
The friand  will  sometimes  dine  as  heartily  as  a  gour- 
met, and  in  certain  moods  the  gourmet^  unmindful  of 
his  physical  limitations,  will  execute  feats  of  "  true 
gourmandise."  At  seasons  of  sorrow,  or  of  ha- 
rassing anxieties,  a  gourmand  msLj  be  mistaken  for 
a  govrmety  or  even  for  a  fnand. 

Possessing  all  facial  signs  of  a  true  gourmand, 
mentioned  by  Brillat-Savarin,  broad  face,  sparkling 
eyes,    small  forehead,   full  lips,   and   round  chin. 
Monsieur  Aze  possessed  in  remarkable  perfection  all 
endowments  that  Grimod  de  la  Reyni^re  required 
in  a  bon-vivant.     To  an  almost  insatiable  appetite 
and  incomparable  digestion,  he  united  a  fine  wit,  a 
fine  palate,  and  fine  manners.     To  this  remarkable 
man  we  are  indebted  for  the  Gastronomic  "  Code,*' 
the  excellence  and  justice  of  whose  provisions  are 
apparent  even  to  those  who  would  not  venture  to 
enforce  them.     It  was  Monsieur  Aze  who  decreed 
that  to  fail  in  keeping  an  engagement  for  dinner  was 
an  ofience  for  which  the  delinquent  should  forfeit 
five  hundred  francs  to  the  disappointed  host.     By 
giving  forty-eight  hours*  notice  of  his  inability  to 
fulfil  his  engagement,  the  offender  might,  however, 
reduce  the  penalty  of  his  breach  of  promise  to  three 
hundred  francs.     Another  of  this  legislator's  enact- 


THE   PRICE   OP   A   GOOD   NAME.  277 

ments  forbade  a  guest  to  slander  his  host,  until  a 
certain  time  had  elapsed  since  his  regalement,  the 
time  for  forbearing  from  defamatory  speech  varying 
in  proportion  to  the  goodness  of  the  repast.  By 
a  fairly  good  dinner,  an  Amphitryon  could  purchase 
security  for  eight  clear  days  from  the  slanderous 
proclivities  of  the  guests  at  his  table.  By  a  repast 
of  superlative  excellence,  he  could  extend  the 
period  of  safety  from  lying  tongues  to  six  months. 
But  no  dinner,  however  costly  and  complete,  could 
oblige  a  guest  to  refrain  for  more  than  half  a  year 
from  the  pleasure  of  calumniating  its  giver.  Thus 
by  entertaining  all  his  friends  once  in  every  six 
months,  a  competent  and  lavish  host  could  main- 
tain a  blameless  character  in  the  circle  of  his 
private  acquaintance.  As  M.  Aze  justly  observed, 
it  is  impossible  to  conceive  a  more  agreeable 
process  for  achieving  an  equally  difficult  and  desira- 
ble end.  An  utterer  of  many  wise  sayings,  M.  Aze 
demonstrated  his  title  to  be  honoured  as  the 
prophet  of  the  dinner-table,  when  he  observed  in 
a  happy  moment  that  it  was  better  to  get  drunk  on 
wine  than  on  ink,  because  the  former  was  less 
black. 

It  is  noteworthy  that  whilst  epicures  of  the 
highest  order  are  always  persons  of  considerable 
intellect,  some  of  the  world's  brightest  geniuses 
have  been  signafUy  devoid  of  gastronomic   percep- 


278  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

tion.  Though  he  was  a  great  eater,  especially  o^ 
breakfasts,  Walter  Scott's  palate  was  so  devoid  of 
sensibility,  that  he  preferred  cold  whisky  and 
water  to  the  most  delicate  wines,  and  could  relish 
inferior  viands  as  keenly  as  meats  of  the  finest 
quality.  With  the  exception  of  Leigh  Hunt  and 
Tom  Moore,  England  has  not  produced  during  the 
last  hundred  years  a  single  author,  chiefly  famous 
for  his  poetry,  who  may  be  named  amongst  eminent 
epicures.  When  he  was  not  impairing  a  naturally 
delicate  constitution  with  drastic  medicines  and 
protracted  fasts,  Byron  would  sometimes  eat  and 
drink  excessively ;  but  he  ate  like  a  greedy  school- 
boy, and  drank  sottishly.  Shelley  cared  more  for 
fruit  than  the  masterpieces  of  cookery.  Southey 
was  content  with  a  joint  and  potato;  Wordsworth 
fared  throughout  life  as  simply  and  moderately  as  a 
school-girl,  and  would  have  refused  with  scornful 
disgust  an  invitation  to  eat  for  the  sake  of  eating. 
Had  he  been  thrown  with  epicures  in  his  early 
manhood,  Coleridge  might  have  devel6ped  a  taste 
for  deUcate  feeding  that  would  have  defended  him 
against  the  particular  sensuality  which  torpefied  his 
palate,  long  before  it  exhausted  the  sources  of  his 
nervous  energy. 

Strenuous  exercise  of  the  brain  may  be  regarded 
as  hostile  to  the  physical  conditions  that  generate 
gastronomic  faculty.    Though  men  of  letters  are 


AUTHORS   AND   BPIOUBBS.  273 

seldom  averse  to  material  pleasures,  and  are  gene- 
rally credited  with  a  disposition  to  social  indul- 
gence, literary  biography  affords  but  few  examples 
of  sincere  devotion  to  gulosity.  Theodore  Hook 
and  free  livers  of  his  hilarious  type  must  be  classed 
with  the  convivial  topers,  rather  than  with  the  nice 
connoisseurs  of  good  cheer.  Johnson  used  to 
question  the  man's  judgment  on  more  important 
matters  whom  he  found  indifferent  to  eating ;  and 
it  was  his  vanity  to  think  himself  an  epicure. 
But  the  doctor's  gastronomic  experiences  were 
homely  and  inartistic.  Often  a  glutton,  and  never 
a  nice  feeder,  he  showed  himself  no  "vrai  gour- 
mand '^  by  his  inability  to  see  that  eating  was  the 
highest  of  all  subjects.  Our  finest  gourmets  of  the 
literary  class  have  been  such  amateurs  of  letters  as 
"  Anastasius  "  Hope  and  Plumer  Ward,  who  merely 
played  with  the  pen  instead  of  living  by  it.  A  few 
of  our  regular  authors  have,  however,  been  genuine 
gourmets.  Lord  Lytton  and  Thackeray,  for  instance, 
were  gastronomers  of  a  high  order.  The  same  may 
be  said  of  the  author  of  **  The  Art  of  Dining,'* 
who  possesses  in '  a  remarkable  degree  all  the 
mental,  moral  and  physical  endowments  of  the  polite 
epicure. 

Brillat-Savarin  was  of  opinion  that  whilst  prac- 
tical gourmets,  and  persons  qualified  by  nature  for 
gastronomic  excellence,  could  be  recognized  at  a 


280  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

glance  bj  the  physical  signs  already  mentioned,  it 
was  easy  to  distinguish  people  naturally  incapable  of 
the  finer  enjoyments  of  gust,  by  their  long  faces,  long 
noses,  large  eyes,  and  slimness  of  bodily  formation. 
"Whatever  their  height,"  he  says,  "they  always 
have  in  their  toumure  a  character  of  elongation. 
They  have  black  and  straight  hair,  and  are,  above 
all,  deficient  in  embonpoint :  it  is  they  who  invented 
trousers.  The  women  whom  nature  has  afflicted 
with  the  same  misfortune  are  angular,  get  tired  at 
table,  and  live  on  tea  and  scandal."  Though  not 
devoid  of  justice  and  nice  observation,  these  asser- 
tions must,  however,  be  regarded  as  general 
statements,  to  be  modified  by  numerous  excep- 
tions. 

The  author  of  the  "  Physiologic  du  GoAt"  divided 
his  gastronomic  "  incapables"  into  two  classes — the 
persons  with  tongue  and  palate  "badly  provided 
with  nerves  for  inhaling  and  appreciating  flavours ;" 
and  the  persons  who,  whilst  suffering  under  no 
local  defect  analogous  to  blindness  and  deafness, 
cannot  concentrate  their  attention  on  their  food,  by 
reason  of  their  general  excitability  or  their  inordi- 
nate devotion  to  other  interests.  This  second  class 
includes  trivial  chatter-boxes,  men  of  urgent  affairs, 
highly  irritable  natures,  and  everyone  who  is  less 
the  master  than  the  slave  of  a  morbidly  active 
brain. 


THE   GREAT  NAPOLEON.  281 

The    first  Napoleon,   by  turns  abstemious   and 
gluttonous,  was  denied  the  pleasures  of  the  high 
"  gourmandise"  by  his  irritability  and  devotion  to 
affairs.     He  would  work  in  his  cabinet  for  many 
hours  without  taking  food ;  and  then  to  appease  an 
appetite,  which  never  made  itself  felt  without  re- 
quiring immediate   satisfaction,   he   would  burden 
himself  with  large  meals,  devoured  ravenously.     In- 
digestion   necessarily  resulted    from  .this    savage 
practice ;  and  the  mind  that  subdued  the  Continent 
was  often  clouded  by  the  derangement  of  organs 
which  avenged  their  wrongs  on  the  brain  that  had 
insolently  denied  them  proper  consideration.     It  is 
not  more  obvious  to  Victor  Hugo  that  Waterloo 
was  lost  through  the  fall  of  rain  which  hindered  the 
movements  of  the  French  artillery,  than  manifest  to 
gastronomers    that    some    of  the   great   captain's 
darkest  reverses  are  attributable  to  his  barbarous 
maltreatment   of  his    stomach.      His    success    at 
Borodino  would  have  been  unquestionable,  had  the 
chieftain  been   prudently  submissive   to   his   chef. 
Leipsic  would  not  have  been  lost  had   the  great 
"tete   d'arm^e"   rendered  proper  homage  to   the 
source  of  its  vigour.     The   triumphs   of  Dresden 
would  not  have  closed  in  disaster,  if  the  Emperor 
had  not  stupefied  himself  with  shoulder  of  mutton 
and  onion-sauce. 

Unlike  Napoleon,  the  cold  and  wary  Wellington 


282  A.  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

did  not  neglect  his  health  in  his  devotion  to 
supreme  interests.  Eating  moderately  but  suffi- 
ciently throughout  his  campaigns,  he  never  lost 
field  or  gun  through  dyspepsia.  But  he  was  even 
more  averse  than  the  Emperor  to  epicurean  indul- 
gence. No  cook  ever  won  from  him  a  sign  of  satis- 
faction with  a  dish.  The  natural  infirmity  of  his 
tongue  and  palate  rendered  him  absolutely  indif- 
ferent to  the  flavours  of  viands.  "  Thank  you,  it 
was  good  enough ;  but  I  really  don't  care  what  I 
eat,*'  he  replied  to  an  inquiry  for  his  opinion  of  a 
dish  so  superlatively  excellent  that  his  host  Talley- 
rand (or,  as  some  insist,  Cambac^res)  was  perplexed 
by  the  silence  and  unobservant  air  of  the  courtly 
soldier.  "  Not  care  what  you  eat !"  he  rejoined, 
with  undisguised  astonishment,  ^'  not  care  what  you 
eat  I  Then,  why  on  earth  have  you  come  here  ?" 
A  version  of  this  anecdote,  which  has  been  told  in  a 
score  difierent  ways,  may  be  found  in  Lord  Lytton's 
«  Pelham." 

Bat  though  he  was  no  gourrtiety  and  was  dis- 
astrously neglectful  of  his  personal  interest  in  good 
cheer.  Napoleon  had  a  proper  respect  for  cookery 
as  an  instrument  of  government.  On  despatching 
the  Abb^  de  Pradt  to  Poland,  he  observed  impres- 
sively, "  Tenez  bonne  table  et  soignez  les  femmes  ;** 
and  the  supreme  duty  of  his  famous  arch-chancellor 
Cambac^res,  was  to  maintain  a  kitchen  and  table 


THE   AECH-CHANOELLOR.  283 

for  the  furtherance  of  state  affairs.  On  dismissing 
high  plenipotentiaries,  after  a  satisfactory  conference, 
he  would  say  in  his  most  gracious  manner,  **  Go  and 
dine  with  Cambac^rfes."  In  illustration  of  prodigal 
expenditure  for  the  arch-chancellor's  table,  a  story 
is  told  of  a  trout  sent  to  it  from  Geneva,  for  which 
the  municipal  authorities  of  that  city  charged 
300  francs.  Thinking  that  £12  (of  English  money) 
was  an  extortionate  price  for  a  single  trout,  the 
Imperial  Gov/r  des  Comptes  disallowed  the  payment ; 
the  immediate  result  of  which  interference  was  a 
sharp  reproof  from  the  Emperor,  who  bade  his 
officers  of  the  Gour  to  forbear  for  the  future  from 
vexatious  economy  in  matters  pertaining  to  his 
chancellor's  table.  Had  the  Emperor  been  as  con- 
siderate as  he  was  liberal  to  his  ofiSicial  entertainer, 
the  latter  would  have  been  spared  many  annoyances* 
But  the  autocrat,  who  gave  no  heed  to  the  clock  or 
his  own  bodily  needs,  when  affairs  of  moment 
occupied  his  attention,  was  equally  careless  of  his 
chancellor's  feelings  and  hospitable  arrangements. 
Sometimes  Oambac^res  was  summoned  abruptly  to 
the  Tuileries  within  a  few  minutes  of  the  hour  fixed 
for  a  grand  dinner  at  his  own  table.  At  other  times, 
he  was  detained  at  the  palace  for  hours,  whilst  he 
knew  that  his  cook  was  deploring  the  destruction  of 
an  exquisite  repast,  and  that  his  guests  for  the  day 
were  enduring  the  torments  of  hunger.     On  one  of 


284  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

these  occasions,  when  the  course  to  be  taken  with 
the  Due  d'Bnghien  had  been  the  subject  of  tedious 
discussion  at  the  Council  Board,  Cambac^r^s  was 
seen  to  pen  a  hasty  note  and  give  it  to  a  gentleman 
usher  for  immediate  delivery.  Unfortunately,  the 
chancellor's  act  did  not  escape  the  notice  of  the 
Emperor,  who  desired  to  know  the  contents  of  the 
missive.  With  an  affected  air  of  unconcern,  Cam- 
bac^rfes  explained  that  the  note  referred  only  to  a 
private  and  personal  matter;  but  the  assurance, 
far  from  satisfying  the  Emperor,  only  stimulated 
his  curiosity.  So  the  note  was  handed  to  His 
Majesty,  who  read  it  aloud,  "  Gardez  les  entremets, 
les  r6tis  sont  perdus."  It  is  needless  to  add  that 
the  billet  was  directed  to  the  arch-chancellor's 
chef. 

It  was  an  hour  of  evil  consequence  to  the  arch- 
chancellor's  fame,  when  he  was  so  imprudent  as  to 
differ  with  Carfeme  on  a  question  of  account,  and 
rouse  thereby  the  implacable  resentment  of  that  emi- 
nent  artiste.  Had  he  exhibited  to  Car^me  a  little  of 
the  forbearance  which  he  never  failed  to  display  to  his 
Imperial  master,  Cambac^res  might  have  gone  down 
to  posterity  as  the  finest  gourmet  of  the  first  Empire. 
But  alas  !  for  a  reputation  so  laboriously  achieved, 
and  so  intemperately  squandered  over  a  paltry 
dispute  about  a  few  hundred  wretched  francs,  it  ia. 
questionable  whether  Napoleon's  official  entertainer 


THE   INDIGNANT   COOK.  285 

was  aught  better  than  a  gluttonous  and  niggardly 
impostor.  No  man  is  a  hero  to  his  valet.  No  man 
lives  in  the  esteem  of  the  cook  whom  he  has  dis- 
charged with  imputations  of  dishonesty.  If  Car^me 
may  be  credited,  the  arch-chancellor  was  no  true 
gourmand  in  the  true  sense  of  the  term,  but  only  a 
gross,  and  even  voracious  feeder  (fort  gros  mangeur, 
et  meme  vorace).  A  greedy  devourer  of  highly- 
seasoned  and  vulgar  messes,  he  gorged  himself  with 
dishes  only  calculated  to  disgust  the  refined  epicure. 
"  Pourrait-on  croire,"  exclaims  Carfeme,  "  qu'il 
pr^f^rait  a  tons  les  mets  le  pat6  chaud  auz  boulettes, 
plat  lourd,  fade  et  bete  ?"  Every  morning  of  his  life 
this  gastronomic  humbug  expended  curious  care  on 
the  arrangement  of  his  table,  but  only  with  the 
despicable  purpose  of  cutting  down  its  proper 
expenses,  for  the  gratification  of  his  avaricious 
spirit.  He  kept  a  minute  record  of  all  culinary 
provisions  sent  to  him  from  the  provinces,  as 
though  he  were  a  mere  huckster.  He  kept  the  key 
of  the  larder  in  which  they  were  stored,  and  never 
gave  out  a  head  of  game,  a  fish,  or  joint  of  meat 
without  a  frugal  consideration  of  its  weight  and  the 
requirements  of  the  occasion  on  which  it  would  be 
served.  Often,  out  of  sheer  miserliness,  he  kept 
materiel  under  lock  and  key  till  it  was  unfit  for 
consumption.  Even  worse,  he  would  consume  at 
his  solitary  dinners  the  **  remains  "  of  stately  ban- 


286  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

queta.  '^Just  heaven  I"  the  cook  exclaims,  with 
equal  fervour  and  amazement,  **  what  a  dinner  for 
a  prince  and  eminent  gastronomer  I"  Not  that 
Carfeme  disdained  to  utilize  the  remnants  of  a  feast. 
On  the  contrary,  he  was  ever  ready  to  turn  them  to 
account,  but  with  caution  and  in  secrecy.  '*  La 
desserte,"  he  justly  observes,  "  ne  doit  etre  employee 
qu'avec  precaution,  habilet^,  et  surtout  en  silence.^^ 
The  same  ham  was  served  at  the  arch-chancellor's 
board  day  after  day  for  an  entire  week ;  and  the 
miserable  fellow  grudged  the  chief  officers  of  his 
kitchen  the  refreshment  of  a  bottle  of  Bordeaux^ 
Of  course  the  reader  of  these  accusations  must 
make  large  allowance  for  the  accuser's  prejudice 
and  vehement  animosity.  But  though  they  are 
violent  ex  parte  statements,  it  cannot  be  denied 
that  they  proceed  from  a  witness  who  was  singularly 
quaUfied  to  form  a  correct  estimate  of  the  arch- 
chancellor's  gastronomic  pretensions,  and  who  would 
have  been  slow  to  tarnish  his  own  fame  by  covering 
a  former  patron  with  charges  which  **  society " 
would  know  to  be  altogether  false. 

Careme  contrasts  the  meanness  of  Cambac^res 
with  the  liberality  of  George  the  Fourth,  Lord 
Castlereagh,  the  Emperor  Alexander,  and  Talley- 
rand. If  his  spirits  were  depressed  by  the  clouds 
and  fog  of  our  humid  climate,  they  were  cheered  by 
the  considerateness  and  courtesies  of  his  English 


AETISTES  IN  COUNCIL.  287 

patrons.  In  Russia  he  was,  or  imagined  himself, 
an  object  of  especial  concern  to  his  imperial  em- 
ployer and  the  august  circle,  for  whose  delight 
he  produced  his  finest  and  most  original  com- 
positions. 

But  Talleyrand  was  the  gourmet  whom  Careme 
delighted  to  honour,  as  the  first  gastronomer  of 
Europe  and  of  history.  The  general  opinion  of 
culinary  savans  concurs  with  the  cook's  high 
estimate  of  this  princely  diplomatist  and  feeder, 
whose  dinner  taken  with  composure  —  at  eight 
o'clock  when  he  was  in  Paris,  and  at  five  during  his 
residences  in  the  country — was  his  only  meal  in  the 
course  of  each  twenty-four  hours.  Having  drunk 
at  the  opening  of  the  day  two  or  three  cups  of 
camomile  tea,  which  acted  as  a  gentle  tonic  on  his 
digestive  organs,  the  Prince  received  the  many 
persons  who  had  claims  on  his  attention.  When 
he  had  dismissed  the  diplomatic  agents  and 
politicians  who  thronged  his  levee,  he  summoned  to 
his  cabini^t  the  chief  officers  of  his  kitchen,  and 
deliberated  calmly  on  their  proposals.  If  their  sug- 
gestions involved  any  startling  project,  or  even  any 
trivial  modification  of  a  gastronomic  rule,  each  of 
the  assembled  artistes  was  invited  to  state  his 
opinion  on  the  doubtful  question  fearlessly  and 
frankly.  It  was  not  till  he  had  heard  the  arguments 
on  both  sides  that  the  Prince  delivered  judgment  in 


288  A   BOOK   ABOUT  THE   TABLE. 

language  which,  though  excellently  lucid'and  precise, 
was  studiously  devoid  of  expressions  likely  to  wound 
the  susceptibilities  of  the  gentle  ministrants.  Some- 
times he  condescended  to  taste  a  new  sauce,  or 
witness  the  practical  illustration  of  a  new  culinary 
method ;  but  on  these  occasions  he  barely  tasted  the 
novelty,  lest,  whilst  informing  his  palate, -he  should 
blunt  the  edge  of  appetite. 

A  similar  picture  has  been  given  of  Louis,  Count 
Zinzendorf,  the  bearer  of  a  name  scarcely  less  illus- 
trious in  gastronomic  story  than  in  the  annals  of 
pietism.  Unlike  the  Count  of  his  family  who 
afforded  the  Moravian  brethren  an  asylum  in  Upper 
Lusatia,  and  after  introducing  their  doctrines  to 
England  died  at  Chelsea  in  1760,  the  statesman 
and  epicure  of  this  story  was  more  studious  for  his 
body's  pleasure  than  his  soul's  welfare.  For  many 
years  he  kept  the.  best  table  in  Vienna,  and  during 
the  plenitude  of  his  influence  he  always  spared  an 
hour  of  each  mid-day  for  a  conference  with  his  chief 
cook.  For  her  knowledge  of  this  interesting  fact, 
history  is  indebted  to  the  prying  tourist  who,  by 
bribing  one  of  the  Count's  pages,  gained  access  to 
the  dark  closet,  where  he  witnessed  the  following 
drama  through  the  keyhole  of  a  door.  The  spy  saw 
a  stately  chamber  in  which  the  Count  was  walking 
to  and  fro,  his  arms  crossed  over  his  breast,  and 
his  countenance  wearing  a  meditative  air.     Having 


LOUIS   COUNT   ZIKZENDOKF.  289 

paced   the  room's  length  several  times,  the  great 
Minister  unfolded  his  arms,  and  seating  himself  in  a 
lounge-chair  that  stood  in  the  middle  of  the  room, 
rung   a   silver    hand-bell.      A   minute   later   there 
entered  a  page,  bearing  a  glass  and  a  white  napkin ; 
a  second  courtly  servitor,  carrying  a  silver  salver, 
that  was  furnished  with  several  pieces  of  bread ;  and 
a  famous  chef,  carrying  another  salver  on  which  were 
several  vessels  containing  the  gravies  and   sauces 
selected  for  the  Count's  dinner.     When  the  page  had 
put  the  napkin  over  the  Count's  cravat  and  coat- 
lappets,  and  the  footman  had  taken  a  convenient 
position  near  his  master,  the  chef  brought  up  the 
sauces,  one  by  one,   stating  briefly  as  he  presented 
it  the  special  purpose  for  which  each  was  designed. 
Having  tasted  each  of  the   compounds,   and  con- 
ferred gravely  with  his  chef  on  their  characteristics 
as  well  as  on  other  questions  of  culinary  moment, 
the  Count  returned  to  affairs  of  state,  and  to  the 
quarter  of  his  palace  where  he  received  his  visitors. 
The  spectator  of  this  droll  scene  tells  us  that  the 
Count  was  very  careful  to  clear  his  palate  with  bread 
and  water  after  tasting  a  sauce,  so  that  he  might 
render  critical  justice  to  the  next  preparation. 

A  man  of  patrician  connexions,  Grimod  de  la 
Reynifere  was  of  plebeian  birth.  The  nephew  of 
Malesherbes,  and  the  uncle  of  Count  D'Orsay,  he 
was  the  son  of   a  fermier^eneral^  who  purchased 

V»L.  II.  u 


1 


290  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

nobility  when  he  had  amassed  a  prodigious  fortune, 
and  the  grandson  of  a  pork-butcher  whose  highest 
distinctions  were  won  in  his  inglorious   vocation. 
A  malicious  destiny   decreed    that  a  furious    hog 
should  avenge  the  wrongs  of  his  race  on  the  per- 
son of  this  pork-butcher's  grandchild.     The  future 
epicure   and   editor  of  the   famous  Almanack  des 
Oourmands  was  still  an  infant,  when  he  was  deprived 
of  the  greater  part  of  both  his  hands  by  the  savage 
boar.  That  he  could,  on  attaining  manhood,  conceal 
the  disfigurements  consequent  on  this  accident  from 
casual  observers,  was  not  more  due  to  the  ingenious 
contrivances  of  surgeons,  than  to  the  intelligence  and 
perseverance  with  which  he  trained  the  mutilated 
parts  to  muscular  pliancy.     But  the  injuries  which 
he  strove  to  disguise  excluded  him  from  the  profes- 
sion of  arras.     Forbidden  by  a  cynical  fate  to  wield 
the  sword,  he  comforted  himself  by  learning  how  to 
use  a  pen  and  handle  a  knife  and  fork.     The  suc- 
cesses of  the  writer  and  epicure  are  more  brilliant, 
and  promise  to  be  more  enduring  than  any  he  could 
have  achieved  in  military  service.  Whilst  his  gastro- 
nomic inventions   place  him  in  the  first  rank  of 
discoverers,    his    gastronomic   writings   have  long 
been   the  marvel  of    scholars   and   the   model   of 
scribes.     The  Duke,  whose  wisdom  and  virtues  are 
fitly  commemorated  in  our  capital  by  the  column 
that  bears  his  name,  used  to  declare  that,  with  the 


FILIAL   MISDEMEANOUR.  291 

single  exception  of  the  Bible,  the  world  contained  no 
better  book  than  the  "  Almanach  des  Gourmands." 
It  may  seem  ungenerous  to  allude  to  the  failings 
of  so  great  a  benefactor  of  our  species ;  but  generosity 
should  not  fail  in  though tfulness  even  for  those  who 
are  strangers  to  the  virtue.     For  their  satisfaction, 
therefore,  let  it  be  observed  that  Grimed,  faultless  in 
everything  which  relates  to  feeding,  was  not  perfect 
in  every  relation  of  life.     The  incongruity  of  his 
ancestral  humility  and    parental  opulence   infused 
him  with  a  perverse  humour,  often  observed  in  the 
inheritors  of  a  fortune  that  just  falls  short  of  perfect 
felicity.  It  had  inspired  him  with  more  of  animosity 
to  the  immediate  authors  of  his  life,  than  of  gratitude 
to  them  as  the  creators  of  his  enviable  prosperity. 
Certainly,  he  cannot  be  exhibited  to  young  minds  as 
a   model   of  filial   devotion.     Whilst  his   parents, 
after  the  fashion   of  the   newly-enriched,   ranged 
themselves  with  the  obsequious  worshippers  of  the 
aristocracy,  the  younger  Grimod  declared  himself 
a  child  of  the  canaille,  and  displayed  whimsical  in- 
genuity in  reminding  his  father  and  mother  of  their 
Yulgar  extraction.      It  was  his  pleasure  to   bring 
ridicule  on  them  by  burlesquing  the  awkward  ges- 
tures with   which    they  rendered   servile  homage 
to   the  great  people  who   condescended  to   enter 
their  salons.      The  father  had  scarcely  performed 
an  obeisance  to  a  duke  of  ancient  lineage  when  the 

u  2 


292  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

son  would  divert  a  circle  of  spectators  by  approach- 
ing the  dignitary  with  bowings  and  grimaces  that 
caricatured  the  fermieT'generaVs  movements  of  re- 
verence. 

Whilst  the  old  people  prided  themselves  on  the 
patrician  quality  of  the  guests  who  thronged  the 
reception-rooms  of  their  hotel,  their  son  persisted 
in  parodying  their  entertainments  by  inviting  to  his 
apartment,  in  the  same  mansion  of  the  Champs 
Elys^es,  persons  of  plebeian  style  and  story.  On 
one  occasion  he  invited  a  numerous  party  of 
advocates  to  his  table,  requiring  that  each  of  his 
guests  should  give  proof  of  his  plebeian  birth  to  a 
laquais,  stationed  at  the  door  of  the  salle-a-manger^ 
before  entering  the  festal  room.  On  another 
occasion  he  entertained  twenty-two  of  his  friends 
at  a  supper  served  on  a  catafalque  in  a  chamber 
hung  with  black  cloth,  and  lit  like  a  mortuary 
chapel  with  three  hundred  tapers.  On  entering 
the  first  of  the  anterooms  that  led  to  this  chamber 
of  death,  each  guest  was  asked  by  a  Swiss  in 
attendance  whether  he  had  come  to  dine  with  M. 
de  la  Reyniere  (p^rej  "  I'oppresseur  du  peuple," 
or  with  M.  de  la  Reyniere  (fils)  "  le  d^fendeur  du 
peuple."  On  declaring  contempt  for  the  tax- 
gatherer,  and  devotion  to  the  popular  tribune,  the 
guest  was   permitted  to   go   to   his   place  at   the 


PORK   AND   OIL.  293 

catafalque,  where  he  found  an  open  coffin  placed 
behind  each  seat. 

But  the  younger  De  la  Reyniere's  most  scanda- 
lous banquet  was  the  supper  of  pork  and  oil  which 
he  gave  to  the  tailors,  butchers,  and  other  petty 
tradesmen  of  his  father's  neighbourhood.  The 
supper  comprised  nine  courses,  each  of  which 
afforded  a  dish  of  swine's  flesh,  or  a  viand  dressed 
profusely  with  oil.  Savoyards,  taken  from  the 
streets  and  dressed  for  the  occasion  in  the  gorgeous 
habiliments  of  mediasval  heralds,  waited  at  the 
table,  whilst  surpliced  singing-boys,  stationed  at 
the  four  corners  of  the  salle-ct-mangery  swung  to 
and  fro  the  gilded  censers,  whose  fumes  corrected 
the  less  agreeable  odour  of  the  gluttonous  canaille. 
No  service  was  removed  till  the  defender  of  the 
people  had  taken  occasion  to  call  attention  to  some 
piece  of  charcuterioy  as  meat  bought  at  the  shop  of 
one  of  his  cousins,  or  to  commend  the  oil  of 
another  preparation  as  a  favourable  specimen  of 
the  commodities  sold  by  his  father's  brother,  the 
ejjicier  round  the  corner.  This  fooling  was  at  its 
height  when  Monsieur  and  Madame  de  la  Reynifere, 
having  arrived  prematurely  in  Paris  from  the 
country,  burst  into  the  room  where  their  son  was 
amusing  himself,  in  more  than  one  sense,  at  their 
expense. 

In  his  indignation  the  fermier- general  procured  a 


294         A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

lettre  de  cachet^  that  banished  his  son  to  Lorraine, 
whence  the  young  man  returned  to  Paris  after  the 
lapse  of  a  few  months  to  take  possession  of  the  wealth 
which  had  devolved  on  him  by  his  sire's  death.  In 
palliation  of  his  unfilial  buffooneries,  it  has  been 
suggested  that  the  younger  De  la  Reyniere 
perpetrated  them  from  motives  of  policy,  rather 
than  from  an  unnatural  desire  to  inflict  pain  on  his 
worthy  parents.  Anticipating  the  not  remote 
future,  when  the  lower  bourgeoisie  of  the  capital 
would  be  powerful  to  defend  a  fortune  derived  from 
odious  taxes,  he  may  have  courted  the  canaille  in 
the  interests  of  the  father  and  mother  whom  he 
covered  with  ridicule.  Anyhow  his  offences  against 
their  peace  of  mind  were  advantageous  to  himself. 
The  millionaire  who  had  boasted  of  his  descent 
from  a  line  of  pork-butchers,  when  ordinary 
parvenus  blushed  to  avow  their  familiar  connection 
with  the  rabble,  was  allowed  to  retain  his  wealth 
after    the    men    of    the    markets    had    risen    to 

■ 

power.  Whilst  the  ancient  nobility  were  stript  of 
their  possessions,  the  tax-farmer's  son,  who  blushed 
for  his  father's  affectation  of  patrician  quality,  and 
boasted  of  his  grandsire's  shop,  escaped  the  general 
despoliation  of  the  opulent  classes. 

Avoiding  the  excitements  and  perils  of  political 
contention,  he  reposed  on  his  reputation  for  loving 
the  people  and  "  good  cheer."    Directing  the  gas- 


A  OREBN  AND  GBEED7  OLD  AGE.        295 

tronomic  revolution,  which  his  pen  has  described 
with  graphic  picturesqueness,  he  lavished  money 
and  counsel  on  the  cooks  who,  on  the  demolition 
of  the  kitchens  of  the  noblesse,  established  them- 
selves as  public  traiteurs  in  the  Palais  Royal. 
Under  the  Empire  he  published  his  famous 
"Almanach."  On  his  return  from  exile,  Louis 
the  Desired,  found  him  in  the  fullness  of  his  well- 
earned  renown.  Time  dealt  gently  with  the 
gourmet  who,  accommodating  himself  amiably 
to  successive  governments  and  changes  of  national 
sentiment,  was  more  curious  about  pots  than 
politicians.  When  he  entertained  his  nephew 
(Count  D'Orsay)  and  Alexandre  Dumas  with  a 
charming  dinner  in  1834,  the  illustrious  epicure, 
who  had  in  his  youth  suffered  exile  for  a  libellous 
memoir  of  Fariau  de  Saint-Ange,  was  in  the  full 
enjoyment  of  a  green  old  age.  As  his  hair  had 
whitened,  his  palate  had  attained  a  riper  and  finer 
subtlety.  His  digestion  was  perfect.  To  use  the 
noble  words  of  one  of  his  many  biographersy  he 
still  ate  a  pcite  de  foie  gras  as  though  it  were  a 
brioche,  and  swallowed  truffles  as  though  they  were 
cherries.  A  few  years  later  he  languished ;  but  to 
the  last  he  preserved  a  romantic  passion  for 
aliments.  The  malady  to  which  he  eventually 
succumbed  having  constrained  his  physician  to 
put   him  on  a    severely    restricted   diet,   he  was 


296  A   BOOK   ABOUT  TDE   TABLE. 

ordered  to  dine  off  a  single  egg  and  one  slice 
{mouilleftp)  of  bread.  The  venerable  gourmet 
insisted  that  the  egg  should  be  large  and  the 
mouilleite  enormous.  Consenting  to  his  en- 
treaties, the  affectionate  wife  who  shared  the 
labours,  triumphs,  and  honours  of  his  useful 
career,  provided  tbe  meagre  repast  in  accordance 
with  his  directions.  Resrardinor  the  mouillette 
with  admiration,  and  his  wife  with  gratitude,  M. 
Grimod  de  la  Reynifere  seized  the  egg,  removed  a 
part  of  its  shell,  and  was  in  the  act  of  sucking  up 
the  milky  "  white,"  when,  alas !  he  sucked  so 
energetically — one  might  say  greedily — that  he 
drew  the  entire  meat  between  his  lips.  In  an 
instant  he  had  swallowed  the  yolk  without  tasting 
it.  "Oh,  malheur!  Oh,  deplorable  precipitation!" 
savs  the  historian,  "  la  belle  mouillette  etait 
inutile."  The  venerable  gastronomer  could  not 
conceal  his  chagrin.  Still  worse,  his  exhausted 
energies  could  not  recover  from  the  shock  of  the 
humiliating  disappointment.  A  week  later  he 
expired,  leaving  his  works  for  the.  enlightenment, 
and  his  character  for  the  emulation  of  posterity. 


o 


97 


CHAPTER  XV. 

POLITICAL    GASTRONOMY. 

'*  Le  gonvernement  Anglais,  quo  nous  copions,  si  positif,  si  puis- 
sant et  si  vivace,  a  gagn^  considerablement  d'influence  sur  le  parle- 
ment  par  les  diners." — L'Art  Culinaibe.    Par  le  Marquis  de  Cussy. 

**  Je  n*ai  pas  grande  id^e  de  cet  bomme,  disait  le  comte  de  M , 

en  parlant  d'un  candidat  qui  venait  d*attraper  une  place;  il  n'a 
jamais  mange  de  boudin  a  la  Eicbelieu,  et  ne  conuait  pas  les 
cotelettes  a  la  Soubise." — Physiologie  du  Gout. 

TTTHILST  holding  Grimod  de  la  Reyni^re  in 
^  ^  proper  reverence,  as  the  leader  of  the  Parisian 
gastronomers  for  more  than  half  a  century,,  we 
should  also  bear  in  mind  that  he  was  surrounded  by 
worthy  comrades  and  generous  rivals.  Brillat- 
Savarin  was  his  close  friend.  Who  is  ignorant  of 
M.  D'Aigrefeuille,  whilom  Procureur-G^n^ral  de  la 
Cour  des  Aides  de  Montpellier,  to  whom  Grimod 
dedicated  the  first  volume  of  his  "  Almanach  ?"  A 
volume  might  be  written  on  his  achievements  in 
gourmandise.  The  inventor  of  the  potage  that 
bears  his  name,  he  introduced  "langues  de  boeuf  a 
la  v^nitionne"  to  the  Parisian  table,  and  induced 
Baptiste  to  reveal  the  method  of  preparing  them. 
Tlie  discoverer  of  a  new  process  for  dressing  maca- 
roni, he  sometimes  condescended  to  execute  it  with 


298  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

his  own  hands  for  the  delight  of  a  few  familiar 
witnesses  of  his  skill.  "Qui  ne  sait,"  Grimod 
remarks  with  fervour,  "que  vous  poss^dez  mieux 
qu'aucun  amateur  la  recette  des  meilleurs  macaronis : 
et  que  quiconque  a  mang^  de  ceux  que  vous  dai^^nez 
quelquefois  apprfiter  vous-meme,  et  de  vos  propres 
mains,  pour  vos  amis,  ne  pent  plus  en  gouter 
d'autres.'* 

Who  has  not  heard  of  M.  d'Avaray  and  his 
method  of  cooking  meats  within  meats,  so  that  the 
viand  intended  for  consumption  should  escape  the 
hurtful,  whilst  encountering  the  salutary  influence 
of  the  fire  ?  Having  placed  a  nicely  trimmed  and 
seasoned  cutlet  between  two  larger  portions  of 
tender  flesh,  he  grilled  or  fried  the  savoury  "  triplet," 
from  which  the  gourmet  in  due  course  took  for  his 
own  eating  the  middle  slice,  putting  aside  the  outer 
pieces,  as  though  they  were  the  mere  shell  or  rind 
of  a  delicious  fruit.  In  the  same  manner  he  cooked 
the  ortolan,  without  scorching  it,  by  putting  it  into 
the  belly  of  a  partridge,  ere  he  submitted  it  to  heat. 
The  gourmet  who  could  conquer  difficulties  by  ex- 
pedients so  novel  and  elegant,  deserved  his  place  in 
the  afiectiona  of  his  sovereign. 

The  age  of  D'Avaray,  D'Escars,  and  Petit-Radel 
was  also  the  age  of  De  Cussy,  whose  "  L'Art  Culi- 
naire"  endures  comparison  with  the  "  Physiologic  du 
Goftt,**   and    the   most    thoughtful    essays   of  the 


THE   STUDY  OF   MANKIND*  299 

"  Almanach,"  Prefect  of  the  Palace  under  the 
Empire,  the  Marquis  de  Cussy  studied  eating  as  a 
department  of  political  science,  and  insisted  that 
history  should  be  written  from  the  gastronomic 
point  of  view.  To  know  the  peoples,  it  was  necessary 
to  know  their  dishes.  England  should  be  criticized 
with  continual  reference  to  roast-beef,  beef-steak, 
pudding,  and  porter.  Holland  could  be  understood 
only  by  a  connoisseur  of  cheese  and  salt-beef.  The 
genius  of  Germany  lurked  in  sour-krout  and  sausages. 
Caviare  afforded  the  clue  to  the  mysteries  of  Russian 
policy.  The  •*  pilau"  of  Turkey,  the  "  macaroni"  of 
Italy,  and  the  "  olla-podrida*'  of  Spain  revealed  the 
respective  instincts  and  tendencies  of  the  three 
nations.  According  to  De  Cussy,  dynasties  rose  or 
fell  through  sympathetic  devotion  or  sullen  indiffer- 
ence to  culinary  ideas.  The  disasters  of  history 
were  referable  to  dinners;  and  the  student,  who 
would  account  for  the  successes  of  statesmen,  should 
pay  more  attention  to  the  records  of  their  kitchens 
than  to  their  labours  in  the  cabinet.  The  free  in- 
stitutions of  England  were  the  result  of  her  liberal 
though  rather  oppressive  fare :  her  supremacy  was 
the  work  of  statesmen  and  thinkers  who,  in  ad- 
dressing the  minds,  had  never  forgotten  to  humour 
the  stomachs  of  their  followers.  Walpole  governed 
by  corruption  and  cookery,  so  nicely  blended  that  it 
was  impossible  at  times  to  separate  the  one  from 


300  A  BOOK  ABOUr  THE  TABLE. 

the  other.  Holland,  Chatham,  North,  and  Adding- 
ton  were  all  statesmen  of  the  table.  Locke,  Addison, 
Clarke,  Hume  and  Gibbon  were  not  more  eminent 
as  philosophers  than  as  diners. 

To  readers  who  have  never  taken  the  gastronomic 
view  of  our  parliamentary  history,  De  Cussy's  state- 
ment of  the  influence  of  hospitality  on  our  public 
affairs  may  appear  altogether  fanciful;  but  the 
more  enlightened  perusers  of  this  page  do  not  need 
to  be  assured  that  it  has  an  element  of  truth.  Bap- 
tized in  the  loving-cup,  if  not  born  amidst  revelry, 
government  by  party  was  quick  to  employ  feasting 
as  a  means  for  the  attainment  of  its  ends.  Banquets 
were  given  for  political  purposes — to  proclaim  the 
exultation  of  victors,  or  rally  the  spirits  of  defeated 
confederates — long  before  the  time  of  Walpole,  who 
only  followed  the  example  of  earlier  leaders,  when 
he  rewarded  his  staunch  supporters  by  inviting 
them  to  his  table,  or  won  new  recruits  to  his  array 
with  domestic  blandishments.  In  the  "  Examen," 
Roger  North  tells  us  how  for  their  political  objects 
•'  the  court  and  their  friends  came  and  kept  company 
with  the  friendly  citizens,  encouraging  them  and 
countenancing  them,"  and  how  the  triumph  of  the 
civic  Tories,  in  electing  two  sheriffs  of  their  party, 
was  celebrated  with  "great  and  solemn  feasts,'* 
whose  "  no  little  noise  gave  advantage  to  the  Whigs, 


HUZZAH   AND   HUBBAH.  301 

that  liked  not  such  music,  to  charge  the  Tories 
with  brutality  and  extravagance." 

If  not  heard  for  the  first  time,  the  "  huzza  "  was 
first  adopted  as  a  Tory  cry  at  these  rejoicings  over 
Whig  misadventure.  "  It  cannot  be  denied,"  says 
Roger  North,  "  but  at  merry  meetings  good 
fellowship,  in  the  way  of  Healths,  ran  into  some 
extravagance  and  noise,  as  that  which  they  call 
Huzza-ing,  an  Usage  then  at  its  perfection." 
Thirty  years  later  the  populace  of  Queen  Anne's 
town  were  raising  huzzas  for  Dr.  Sacheverell  at  feasts 
commemorated  in  Dr.  King's  lines 

**  A  caldron  of  fat  beef  and  stoop  of  ale 
On  the  huzzaing  mob  shall  more  prevail, 
Than  if  you  give  them,  with  the  nicest  art, 
Kagouts  of  peacock's  brains  and  filbert  tart.*'  . 

At  the  same  time  the  Whigs,  no  longer  protesting 
weakly  and  foolishly  against  clamorous  extra- 
vagances, answered  their  opponents*  shouts  with 
even  louder  '*  hurrahs."  Alike  in  the  capital  and 
the  country,  political  action  was  attended  with 
political  feasting.  No  election  was  carried  without 
a  lavish  expenditure  in  meats  and  buttered  ale.  No 
candidate  for  the  suffrages  of  a  large  constituency 
could  face  it  on  the  hustings  until  he  had  met  its 
chiefs  at  private  dinners,  and  conciliated  its  superior 
commonalty  at  tavern  suppers.  Having  passed 
from  privacy  to  a  public  station  through  a  series  of 


802         A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

feastings,  the  new  member  no  sooDor  entered  *^  the 
house "  than  he  was  assailed  with  hospitable 
courtesies  by  notable  politicians,  acting  ia  the 
interest  of  ministers  or  of  their  opponents.  By 
going  straight  to  one  of  the  chief  houses  of  rendez- 
vous for  the  holders  of  his  opinions,  and  declining  to  ^ 
appear  at  the  private  gatherings  of  their  opponents, 
the  man  of  clear  views  and  steady  purpose  easily 
escaped  the  importunities  of  anglers  for  his  influence. 
But  the  weak-knee'd  politician,  after  sauntering 
through  half-a-dozen  coteries,  was  apt  to  associate 
himself  closely  with  the  one  that  had  the  best  cooks 
and  prettiest  women.  As  Mr.  Hayward  observes, 
when  speaking  of  the  political  functions  of  Holland 
House  and  Landsdowne  House,  "No  one  who 
knows  anything  about  human  nature  will  deny  that 
it  is  of  the  last  importance  to  a  party  to  have  a  few 
noble  or  highly  distinguished  houses,  where  all  its 
rank  and  beauty,  wit,  eloquence,  accomplishment, 
and  agreeability  may  congregate ;  where,  above  all, 
each  young  recruit  of  promise  may  be  received  on 
an  apparent  footing  of  equality,  his  feelings  taken 
captive  by  kindness,  or  his  vanity  conciliated  by 
flattery."                                                                                 | 

De  Cussy  lived  in  times  when  the  English  mode 
of  cherishing  political  parties  was  largely  operative 
in  French  politics.  The  dinners  of  Cambacdres  in 
the  Empire,  had  been  preceded  in  the  Republic  by 


IMPENDING   RUIN.  303 

the  hospitalities  of  Barrere,  whose  table  was  not 
more  esteemed  for  its  cuisine  than  for  its  political 
intelligence.  During  his  ascendancy  it  was  com-* 
monly  said  that  no  one  could  understand  the 
revolution,  who  had  not  supped  with  the  President 
of  the  Jacobins ;  and  whilst  the  kitchen  was  a 
chief  force  in  the  organisation  of  every  political 
coterie,  gastronomy  contributed  in  a  remarkable 
manner  to  the  prosperity  of  the  entire  nation. 
Brillat-Savarin  insists  that  France  was  indebted 
chiefly  to  her  gastronomic  genius  for  the  quickness 
with  which  she  recovered  her  trade  and  credit  after 
Napoleon's  fall. 

At  a  moment  when  her  industries  had  been  ex- 
hausted  by  fiscal  exactions,  and  when  successive 
wars  had  reduced  htr  to  bankruptcy  and  decimated 
her  people,  the  treaty  of  1815  imposed  upon  France 
some  fifteen  hundred  millions  of  new  debt,  one-half 
of  which  she  was  required  to  pay  within  three  years. 
How  came  it,  the  epicure  asks,  that  she  did  not 
perish  in  a  vain  attempt  to  satisfy  such  extortions  ? 
How  that,  instead  of  folding  her  hands  in  despair, 
she  applied  herself  to  the  accomplishment  of  the 
apparently  impossible  task  ?  Ay  more,  how  came 
it  that  her  recuperative  effbrts  were  not  more  heroic 
than  successful  ?  What  power  came  to  her  aid  ? 
what  divinity  accomplished  the  miracle  ?  History 
answers — La  Gourmandise  I 


304  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

To  retrieve  the  disasters  of  bloody  fields,  France 
fell  back  upon  her  kitchens.  Her  soldiers  had 
perished,  but,  thanks  to  Heaven  I  her  cooks  re- 
mained. Betrayed  by  her  generals  and  destiny, 
France  was  saved  by  the  chefs  and  cuisine  of  her 
capital.  The  allied  armies  had  no  sooner  entered 
Paris,  than  these  marvellous  artistes — men  whom 
no  disaster  could  crush,  no  reverse  plunge  into 
despair — conspired  to  fascinate  the  hostile  leaders, 
and  through  them  to  enslave  the  world  by  an  irre- 
sistible cookery.  Inspired  with  this  sublime  pur- 
pose, they  ran  to  their  pots  and  pans  with  a  divine 
enthusiasm.  By  day  they  faced  joyfully  the  hottest 
fires — by  night  they  racked  their  brains  for  new 
ideas,  or  followed  up  trains  of  thought  ending  in 
novel  combinations.  Not  a  fortnight  passed  ere 
they  saw  that  the  enemy  had  been  given  into  their 
hands.  Everywhere  the  soldiers  of  the  barbaric 
hordes  were  seen  to  eat  intently,  greedily,  inces- 
santly, the  dainties  offered  to  their  insatiable  mouths. 
Whilst  marshals  and  generals  fed  luxuriously  and 
interminably  in  the  salons  of  extortionate  restaura- 
teurs, colonels  and  subalterns  consumed  the 
scarcely  inferior  "  plats"  of  elegant  though  cheaper 
traiteurs.  The  foreign  soldiers  who  could  not  pay 
the  charges  of  the  more  fashionable  caterers,  stuffed 
themselves  from  dawn  to  twilight  with  the  viands 
afforded  by  ordinary  hotel-keepers  and  pastrycooks. 


NATIONAL   BANKRUPTCY   AVOIDED,  305 

At  the  same  time,  non-commissioned  officers  gorged 
themselves  in  the  open  streets.  "Behold,"  the 
conspirators  exclaimed,  "  they  are  under  the  charm. 
Daily  they  pay  us  more  than  we  are  charged  daily 
for  their  maintenance.  And  till  the  grave  covers 
these  intruders,  they  will  pay  us  prodigious  tribute 
for  the  gratification  of  tastes  acquired  during  their 
sojourn  amongst  us."  It  was  the  hour  for  gastro- 
nomic enterprise  and  speculators.  V6ry  became  a 
millionnaire ;  Achard  was  on  the  way  to  prodigious 
opulence ;  Madame  Sully,  of  the  Palais  Royal,  was 
selling  daily  twelve  thousand  little  pat^s  over  the 
counter  of  her  small  shop,  scarcely  twelve  feet 
square. 

The  results  of  this  gastronomic  victory  exceeded 
even  the  hopes  of  the  victors.  The  prosperity  of 
the  traiteurs  at  once  affected  the  several  industries 
that  are  subservient  directly  or  indirectly  to  "  gour- 
mandise."  Yet  further,  whilst  inspiring  the  French 
with  a  cheering  confidence  of  their  ability  to  con- 
quer their  many  difficulties,  it  produced  a  universal 
revival  of  the  luxurious  and  elegant  arts.  Delicate 
feeding  creates  a  disposition  for  every  kind  of  costly 
enjoyment.  In  the  general  resuscitation  of  her 
commerce  and  industries,  France  paid  the  seven 
hundred  and  fifty  millions  of  indemnity  in  three 
years,  and  met  her  other  obligations  with  admirable 
punctuality.     In  the  course  of  time  she  was  abun- 

VOL.  I£.  X 


306  A   B(X)K  ABOUT  THE    TABLE. 

daDtly  compensated  for  the  exactions  of  the  con- 
querors by  the  growing  demand  for  her  cookery  and 
wines.  Men  who  had  learnt  to  appreciate  the 
works  of  her  traiteurs  during  "the  occupation," 
returned  to  Paris  at  least  once  in  every  few  years, 
to  renew  their  acquaintance  with  M.  Achard,  and 
to  lunch  in  Madame  Sully's  shop.  These  gourmets, 
in  their  visits  to  the  French  capital,  were  often 
accompanied  by  wives  and  daughters,  who  enriched 
the  jewellers  and  milliners  of  the  boulevards.  M. 
Moet,  of  Epernay,  drew  a  long  face  when  an  in- 
vading army  emptied  his  cellars  of  six  hundred 
thousand  bottles  of  wine ;  but  he  lived  to  con- 
gratulate himself  on  a  loss  that  made  champagne 
the  favourite  drink  of  the  wealthier  people  of  the 
northern  nations,  and  immediately  doubled  the 
number  of  his  English  customers. 

Whilst  France  wad  thus  replacing  herself  amongst 
the  first  European  powers,  she  had  a  Sovereign 
suited  to  her  gastronomic  genius,  and  worthy  of  his 
descent  from  such  epicures  as  Louis  the  Well- 
Beloved  and  Louis  the  God-given.  If  la  Gour^ 
mandise  had  marked  him  as  her  most  devoted  wor- 
shipper, by  the  sensuous  character  of  his  counte- 
nance and  the  vastness  of  his  indolent  body,  he  bore 
the  inconvenient  distinctions  with  placidity,  and 
regarded  their  burden  as  no  excessive  penalty  for 
enjoyments  that  had  reconciled  him  to  exile,  whilst 


LOUIS   THE    DESIRED.  307 

preparing  him  to  govern  a  nation  of  cooks.  Like 
his  brother,  Louis  the  Sixteenth,  he  astounded 
spectators  by  the  magnitude  of  his  meals ;  but  in 
every  other  gastronomic  respect  he  diflTered  remark- 
ably from  Marie  Antoinette's  husband. 

Whatever  his  failings,  it  cannot  be  denied  that 
Louis  the  Desired  was  a  superb  and  most  enlightened 
gourmand.  Regarding  cookery  as  one  of  the  fine 
arts,  and  proclaiming  it  more  honourable  because 
more  fruitful  of  enjoyment  than  astronomy,  he  was 
studious  of  delicacy  and  refinement  in  all  his  culi- 
nary enterprises.  It  was  a  first  article  of  his  creed 
that,  whilst  delighting  the  palate,  every  dish  should 
also  charm  the  eye  and  gratify  the  nerves  of  smell. 
The  ornamentation  of  tables  was  a  subject  that 
engaged  much  of  his  serious  attention.  He  was 
also  a  great  discoverer.  A  daring  experimentalist, 
he  is  one  of  the  few  royal  epicures  who  enlarged  the 
boundaries  of  human  feeding,  and  added  to  the 
number  of  our  alimentary  sensations.  Such  a  man 
could  not  fail  to  reflect  with  shame  and  abhorrence 
on  the  gastronomic  depravity  of  his  brother,  who 
preferred  pork  to  all  other  viands.  He  was  not 
without  grounds  for  thinking  that  Louis  the  Six- 
teenth's downfall  and  ignominious  death  were  chiefly 
due  to  the  popular  disdain  for  his  gross  gluttony. 
It  is  certain  that  the  degraded  Bourbon  roused  no 
sentiment  in  his  favour  by  gorging  himself  with 

X  2 


308  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

roast  pullets  on  the  1 0th  of  August,  whilst  the 
Convention  was  considering  his  appeal  for  protec- 
tion. Camille  Desmoulins  taught  the  Parisian 
populace  to  believe  that  the  royal  fugitive  would 
have  escaped  from  France  had  he  not  tarried  on  the 
way  to  the  frontier  to  feast  on  pig's  feet.  The 
mob  that  shrieked  around  the  scaffold,  whilst  the 
desperate  glutton  and  coward  screamed  for  mercy 
and  struggled  with  his  executioners,  were  aware 
that  his  most  strenuous  complaints  of  his  treat- 
ment in  the  Temple  related  to  the  restrictions  of 
his  diet. 

In  palliation  of  Louis  the  Sixteenth's  gluttony,  it 
may,  however,  be  pleaded  that  it  was  an  hereditary 
disease,  and  would  probably  have  escaped  universal 
opprobium  had  it  not  been  divorced  from  the 
"  friandise,"  in  which  the  French  Bourbons  were 
rarely  deficient.  Louis  the  Well-Beloved,  whom 
Grimod  de  la  Reynifere  extols  as  a  gourmet  of  a  truly 
royal  type,  was  also  a  prodigious  gourviand.  The 
same  may  also  be  said  of  Louis  the  Fourteenth, 
whom  Dr.  Doran  characterises  as  "a  very  gifted 
feeder."  The  Duchess  of  Orleans  testifies  in  her 
Memoirs  that  she  "  often  saw  him  eat  four  platefuls 
of  soups,  a  whole  pheasant,  a  partridge,  a  plateful 
of  salad,  mutton  hashed  with  garlic,  two  good- 
sized  slices  of  ham,  a  dish  of  pastry,  and  afterwards 
fruit  and  sweetmeats." 


LARKS   FOE   EVEE.  309 

But  Louis  the  Great,  in  the  fullness  of  his  vigour, 
was  a  child  at  eating  in  comparison  with  the  Swiss 
porter  who  fed  daily  at  the  servants'  board  of 
Marshal  Villars. 

"  How  many  sirloins  of  beef  could  you  eat  at  one 
sitting  ?"  the  Marshal  inquired  of  this  voracious 
janitor. 

"  Sirloins  of  beef!"  the  giant  answered.     "  Ah, 
my  Lord,  not  many — five  or  six  at  the  utmost." 

"  And  how  many  legs  of  mutton  ?  Think,  and 
tell  the  truth." 

The  porter  declard  that  seven  or  eight  large  legs 
would  satisfy  his  sharpest  hunger. 

"  And  how  many  pullets  ?" 

The  porter  did  not  care  much  for  pullets  ;  a  dozen 
were  as  many  as  he  should  ever  wish  to  eat  at  a 
single  meal. 

"  Good ;  and  how  about  pigeons  ?" 

A  disdainful  smile  stole  over  the  glutton's  face  as 
he  replied  contemptuously,  "Pooh!  Pigeons, 
pigeons  !  Pooh  !  my  Lord  !  Forty  or  fifty — say 
fifty,  if  they  are  plump  and  well-dressed." 

"Fifty  pigeons!"  rejoined  the  Marshal;  "then 
you  would  need  two  or  three  hundred  larks  ?" 

"  Larks,  my  Lord  !"  exclaimed  the  porter,  with 
sudden  enthusiasm.  "  How  many  larks  ?  Oh,  my 
Lord,  I  could  eat  larks /or  ever.'* 

This  porter  would  have  felt  it  a  privilege  to  serve 


810  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THB  TABLE. 

M.  de  Sembla^ay,  the  Bishop  of  Bourges,  who,  for 
six  years,  ate  six  heavy  meals  a  day,  and  yet  never 
rose  from  table  without  appetite  for  another 
course.  No  less  pious  than  gluttonous,  this  ex- 
emplary prelate  observed  to  a  familiar  friend,  *'I 
attribute  my  felicitous  gift  of  eating  to  my  care  to 
say  grace,  not  only  before  and  after  each  repast, 
but  at  each  removal  of  a  service."  Whether  the 
poet  was  eqally  abounding  in  thanks  to  Heaven 
biography  omits  to  state,  whilst  recording  that 
Alexander  Lainez  could  enjoy  a  feast  lasting  for  five 
or  six  hours,  and  five  minutes  after  its  last  service 
be  ready  for  another.  "When  will  dinner  be 
ready?"  he  once  asked  his  servant  immediately 
after  a  hearty  repast.  On  hearing  that  he  had  just 
dined  at  unusual  length,  he  answered  sadly  and 
thoughtfully,  "  Indeed,  indeed ;  is  my  stomach 
losing  its  memory?"  Another  eminent  and  ec- 
centric glutton,  whose  achievements  are  recorded 
in  the  archives  of  the  Academy  of  Wirtemberg, 
made  a  handsome  income  for  many  years  by  eating 
in  public.  On  one  occasion  this  droll  gentleman, 
or  "  ogre,"  as  his  biographers  prefer  to  style  him, 
amused  himself  by  devouring  a  lacquered  iron  stand- 
ish,  several  quill  pens,  and  knife,  seasoned  to  his 
taste  with  ink  and  sand.  Having  taken  down  these 
trifles,  he  topped  up  with  two  bushels  of  cherries 
with  their  stalks  and  stones.   Nothing  more  astound- 


A  poet's  farb.  311 

ing  than  this  exploit  can  be  found  in  Mason  Good's 
curious  examples  of  morbid  appetite,  though  he  men- 
tions the  case  of  the  servant-girl  who  made  a  light 
luncheon  off  a  broom-stick.  By  the  way,  there  still 
lives  an  American  poet  who  diets  on  shavings  and 
whittlings  of  wood,  when  his  mind  is  delivering  itself 
of  its  nobler  conceptions*  On  one  occasion,  entering 
the  study  of  a  London  friend  during  its  owner's 
absence,  this  Transatlantic  genius  seated  himself  on 
an  "  occasional  chair,"  with  his  face  to  its  back,  and 
taking  out  his  whittling-knife  regaled  himself  with 
the  top  rail.  The  refection  having  only  sharpened 
his  appetite,  he  was  beginning  to  eat  another  stave 
of  polished  birch,  when  the  proprietor  of  the 
damaged  seat  appeared  upon  the  scene.  With 
excellent  good-humour  and  politeness  the  host  ob- 
served to  his  visitor,  *•  My  dear  fellow,  why  have 
you  refreshed  yourself  with  such  hard  and  indiges- 
tible fare  when  that  sofa-pillow,  stuffed  with  the 
softest  of  feathers,  was  quite  at  your  service  ?" 

Before  it  became  the  fashion  at  feasts  to  forewarn 
every  guest,  by  a  menu  put  near  his  plate,  of  the 
several  provisions  for  his  gastronomic  contentment, 
the  epicure  was  exposed  to  diflSculties  only  to  be 
imagined  at  the  present  day.  If  he  partook  freely 
of  a  favourite  dish  at  the  beginning,  he  might  de- 
prive himself  of  the  ability  to  enjoy  yet  more  de- 
licious fare  at  a  later  stage  of  the  proceedings*     On 


312  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

the  Other  hand,  if  he  used  his  first  opportunity  with 
moderation,  he  might  have  reason  to  regret  his 
abstinence  on  finding  nothing  so  acceptable  to  his 
palate  in  the  subsequent  services.  When  the  Duke 
of  Norfolk  rested  on  his  "  arms'*  at  the  table  of 
the  Sublime  Steaks  during  one  of  the  earlier  ser- 
vices, he  knew  that  the  super-delicious  cut  from 
the  very  middle  of  the  rump,  for  which  he  was 
"  holding  back,"  would  in  due  course  make  its  ap- 
pearance. But  before  the  introduction  of  "  menus," 
the  epicure  at  a  friend's  table  could  seldom  adopt 
the  retentive  policy  with  perfect  confidence  that  it 
would  prove  to  his  advantage. 

Under  these  circumstances  arose  the  malicious 
practice  of  withholding  the  choicest  viands  till  the 
too  eager  gourmand  had  eaten  to  the  extreme  limits 
of  his  capacity.  Greedy  parasites  were  often 
punished  in  this  cruel  manner  by  the  host,  who 
suspected  them  of  preferring  his  dinners  to  his 
jeux-d'esprit. 

Brillat-Savarin  tells  a  story  of  the  Chevalier  de 
Langeac,  a  bon-vivant  well  known  in  1780  at  the 
best  tables  in  Lyons,  who  was  thus  "  victimized" 
by  a  wealthy  banker  of  that  city.  Having  con- 
ceived resentment  against  the  Chevalier,  this 
financier  invited  him  to  his  table  for  dinner  on  a 
rather  distant  day.  Inferring  from  the  "  length" 
of  the  "  notice"  that  he  was  asked  to  a  feast  of 


A   VICTIM   OF   OONSPIBAOY.  313 

unusual   ceremony   and   excellence,    the   Chevalier 
accepted  the  invitation  gladly  and  appeared  at  the 
appointed  hour.     The  company  was  numerous  and 
brilliant,  though  the  repast,  or  rather  the  earlier 
part  of  it,  was  more  solid  and  less  delicate  than 
the  Chevalier  had  hoped  to  find  it.     An  enormous 
sirloin,    a  fricassee  of  pullets,  and  a  staffed  carp 
constituted  the  first    service.     The  second  course 
consisted  of  a  prodigious  turkey,  a  pike,  and  six 
entremets.     It  was   remarkable    that    the   guests, 
with  the  single  exception  of  the  Chevalier,    were 
out  of  appetite.     This  one  had   a   sick   headache, 
another  had  a  chill,  a  third  had  already  dined.    They 
could  pick  a  little ;  but  could  not  eat  vigorously. 
Accepting  their  excuses  in  good  faith  and  comical 
simplicity,  the  Chevalier  de  Langeac — despite  his 
secret  dissatisfaction  with  the  repast — threw  him- 
self on   the   massive   dishes,    and   even   surpassed 
himself  in  gluttony.     Enjoying  the  infirmity  of  his 
comrades,  he  rallied   them  insolently  on  their  in- 
competence.    Poor  imbecile  I  their  revenge  and  his 
humiliation   were   at   hand.     As  he   ate   they    ex- 
changed glances.     At  length  he  desisted  from  his 
assaults  on  the  too  substantial  food,  when  he  felt 
that  he  had  scarcely  "  a  corner"  left  in  his  system 
for  a  small  piece  of  cheese  at  dessert.     The  time 
for  his  disgrace  had  arrived.     On  the  removal  of 
the  second  course,  what  was  his  surprise  at  seeing 


314  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

the  table  relaid  with  fresh  plate  and  linen  ?  What 
his  dismay  at  beholding  it  adorned  with  such 
delicacies  as  "  riz  dei  veau  au  ooulis  d'^crevisses," 
"  des  laitances  aux  truffes/*  "  un  brochet  piqu6  et 
farci/'  and  "  des  ailes  de  bartarelles  k  la  pur^e  de 
champignons  ?'*  What  his  rage  at  hearing  the 
invalids  declare  themselves  quite  well  again  ?  The 
sufferer  from  "  migraine"  was  never  better.  The 
man  who  complained  of  a  chill  was  glowing  with 
animation.  The  conspirator  who  had  already  dined 
was  congratulating  himself  on  having  taken  scarcely 
anything  since  early  breakfast.  For  a  few  minutes 
the  victim  made  a  ghastly  effort  to  maintain  an 
appearance  of  hilarity,  but  the  shame  and  ridicule 
of  his  position  were  not  to  be  endured  with  an 
affectation  of  pleasure.  On  the  appearance  of  a 
noble  dish  of  snipes,  he  rose,  his  face  livid  and  his 
hands  trembling  with  rage.  "  Monsieur,"  he  ex- 
claimed to  the  banker,  ere  he  rushed  from  the 
*room,  "  you  have  exposed  me  to  your  friends,  and 
you  shall  atone  for  your  perfidy  with  your  life." 

A  miserably  weak  version  of  this  piquant  but 
rather  disagreeable  story  is  given  by  the  author  of 
"Apician  Morsels,"  (1829),  who  makes  two 
English  ladies  perpetrate  the  inhospitable  joke  on 
a  greedy  curate,  who,  after  feeding  himself  to 
repletion  with  corned  beef  and  carrots,  is  con- 
strained to  witness  their  deliberate  enjoyment  of  a 


A  FEIEND  OP  TWENTY   YEABS'    STANDING.  315 

second  banquet  of  ^'  delicate  entries  and  beautiful 
game/* 

A  third  version  of  Brillat-Savarin*s  "  holding 
back"  story  exhibits  Pope,  the  actor,  as  the  suf- 
ferer from  the  plot.  At  the  invitation  of  an  old 
comrade  who  had  invited  him  to  his  table  to  dine 
in  a  homely  way  off  "  a  small  turbot  and  a  boiled 
edge-bone  of  beef,"  the  actor  played  the  part 
assigned  him  in  the  programme  with  his  accustomed 
zeal  and  thoroughness.  When  the  "  edge-bone  of 
beef"  returned  to  the  kitchen,  not  a  trace  remained 
to  the  joint  of  its  original  proportions,  for  though  he 
loved  venison  more.  Pope  loved  the  homelier  viand 
much.  Two  minutes  later  the  glutted  actor  rested  his 
eyes  on  a  superb  haunch  of  venison.  It  was  hard  for 
him  to  see  such  fare,  and  know  that  he  could  not  eat 
a  single*  slice  of  it.  It  was  still  harder  to  feel  him- 
self the  object  of  a  cruel  and  clumsy  insult.  He 
could  not  control  his  emotion.  "  A  friend  of  twenty 
years*  standing,"  he  ejaculated  hysterically,  as 
tears  rolled  down  his  cheeks,  "  a  friend  of  twenty 
years  standing  and  to  be  treated  in  this  manner  I" 

At  present,  when  we  wish  to  be  rid  of  an  old 
acquaintance  we  cease  to  ask  him  to  dinner,  instead 
of  inviting  him  with  a  view  to  put  an  elaborate 
affront  upon  him.  The  mediaavalists,  by  the  way, 
had  some  equally  curious  and  barbarous  modes  of 
dismissing  offensive  trenchermen.     Baptista  Porta 


316  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

gives  six  different  processes  for  "  driving  parasites 
and  flatterers  from  great  men's  tables."  The  first 
was  to  induce  the  unwelcome  guest  to  wipe  his  wet 
face  and  hands  with  a  napkin  artfully  prepared  with 
powdered  vitriol  and  galls,  so  that  it  "made  his 
face  and  hands  as  black  as  a  cole."  The  second  was 
to  give  him  three  hours  before  dinner  a  cup  of  wine, 
medicated  with  bella-donna,  i,e.,  to  poison  him 
slightly,  so  that  on  sitting  down  to  the  feast  his 
attempts  to  masticate  would  occasion  the  agonising 
spasms  of  incipient  lock-jaw.  Porta  aflBrms  from 
experience  that  it  is  a  mere  popular  error  to  sup- 
pose that  a  greedy  parasite  can  be  deprived  of  his 
appetite  by  merely  placing  under  his  trencher  "  a 
needle  that  hath  often  sowed  the  winding  sheet  of 
the  dead.*'  The  third  process  for  discomforting 
the  intrusive  trencherman  was  to  powder  his  meats 
with  powdered  root  of  wake-robbin,  which  would 
not  fail  to  "  bite  his  mouth,"  "  skin  his  tongue," 
and  compel  him  to  gape  in  a  highly  ludicrous 
manner.  The  same  result  could  be  obtained  by 
giving  "  the  enemy"  a  salad,  containing  leaves  of 
cuckowpint  cut  small.  The  fourth  method  was  to 
smear  his  knife  and  napkin  with  colocynth,  so  as 
to  impart  "  a  filthy  and  abominable  taste  to  what- 
ever he  ate."  Or  by  the  fifth  process,  a  host  might 
humiliate  an  odious  visitor  by  annointing  his  cup  with 
a  mucilage  of  milk  of  figs  and  gum-tragacanth  which 


COST   OP  DINNERS.  317 

would  cause  the  vessel  to  stick  to  the  wretch's  lips. 
"  When  he  hath  done  drinking/'  says  this  professor 
of  the  Art  of  Tormenting  one's  Guests,  "  he  shall 
hardly  be  able  to  pull  the  cup  off."  The  sixth  and 
last  process  was  to  give  a  repulsive  and  verminous 
appearance  to  the  viands  set  before  the  object  of 
insult,  by  sprinkling  them  with  powder  of  dried 
horse's  blood  and  small  pieces  of  cat-gut.  "  If  you 
cut  harp-strings  small,"  says  the  Neapolitan  Magi- 
cian, "  and  strew  them  on  hot  flesh,  the  heat  will 
twist  them  and  they  will  move  like  worms." 

Respecting  the  cost  of  dinners  amongst  the  old 
English  there  is  an  unfortunate  absence  of  informa- 
tion. But  during  the  last  two  hundred  years  the 
prices  of  barely  sufficient  dinners,  good  dinners,  and 
luxurious  dinners  have  not  increased  greatly  in 
London.  From  one  of  the  Harleian  tracts  it  ap- 
pears that  a  curate,  or  poor  scholar,  in  Charles  the 
First's  London  paid  fourpence  for  a  dinner  of  meat 
and  bread,  and  a  farthing  for  attendance — charges 
nearly,  if  not  precisely,  equivalent  to  the  price  which 
a  gentleman  of  narrow  means  pays  for  a  small  steak 
and  potatoe  at  a  cheap,  though  decent,  dining-room 
of  the  Victorian  town.  At  Whitehall,  under  Mistress 
Elizabeth  Cromwell's  frugal  regime,  the  gentlemen 
(on  board  wages)  at  the  steward's  table  were  allowed 
ten  shillings  for  every  mess  of  ten  persons,  together 
with  a  bottle  of  sack  and  two  bottles  of  claret  for 


318  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

the  ten  messmates,  who  certainly  had  no  superfluous 
drink  when,  as  was  often  the  case,  they  had  guests 
at  table.  In  the  days  of  William  the  Third  and  h» 
successor,  Anne,  the  highest  prices  for  dinners  at 
Pontack's  and  Brand's  rarely  exceeded  two  guineas, 
equal  to  six  or  seven  guineas  of  current  money. 
Misson  (Ozell's  edition)  says  : — "  Those  who  would 
dine  at  one  or  two  guineas  per  head  are  handsomely 
accommodated  at  our  famous  Pontack's."  A  writer 
in  the  "  Monthly  Review"  (May,  1737)  says  that 
a  party  of  seven  gentlemen  had  recently  paid 
£81  lis.  6d.  for  their  dinner  at  an  expensive  hotel, 
without  taking  in  account  the  value  of  their  turtle, 
which  was  a  present.  Dr.  Doran  says  of  this  exor- 
bitant bill,  "  A  party  of  the  same  number  at  the 
Clarendon,  and  with  turtle  charged  in  the  bill, 
would,  in  our  days,  find  exceeding  difficulty  in 
spending  more  than  £5  each."  Perhaps  the  most 
sumptuous  dinner  ever  served  at  the  Clarendon 
was  the  one  given  to  Lord  Chesterfield,  on  his  re- 
tirement  from  the  office  of  Master  of  the  Buck- 
hounds.  Count  d'Orsay  ordered  the  dinner,  which 
(says  the  author  of  the  "  Art  of  Dining")  was  laid 
for  thirty  at  a  cost  of  six  guineas  a  head.  Mr.  Hay- 
ward  also  mentions  a  tradition  that  an  Albion  (Al- 
dersgate  Street)  dinner,  given  under  the  auspices  of 
Sir  William  Curtis,  cost  the  party  between  thirty 
and  forty  pounds  apiece.     To  account  for  such  a 


EXTRAVAGANT  DINNERS.  319 

waste  of  money  it  should  be  remarked  that  the 
dinner-committee  "  despatched  a  special  messenger 
to  Westphalia  to  choose  a  ham,"  a  fact  strikingly- 
illustrative  of  their  determination  to  throw  away  as 
much  money  as  possible  on  a  single  meal.  The 
same  bootless  prodigality  distinguished  the  famous 
competition-dinners  of  the  Albion  (London)  and 
York  House  (Bath),  which  resulted  in  a  drawn  bet, 
because  the  former  hotel,  having  come  *off  victorious 
in  the  first,  was  adjudged  to  have  been  beaten  in 
the  second  course.  *•  Lord  Southampton,"  says 
Mr.  Haywood,  **  once  gave  a  dinner  at  the  Albion, 
at  ten  guineas  a-head ;  and  the  ordinary  price  for 
the  best  dinner  at  this  house  (including  wine)  is 
three  guineas.  In  our  opinion  extravagance  adds 
nothing  to  real  enjoyment ;  and  a  first-rate  English 
dinner  (exclusive  of  wine)  ought  to  be  furnished  for 
a  third  of  the  price."  Grimod  de  la  Reyniere  used 
to  declare  that  for  twenty  francs  he  could  buy  at  a 
Parisian  restaurant  of  the  highest  class,  a  better 
dinner  than  LucuUus  ever  set  before  a  friend  in  the 
salon  of  Apollo. 


320 


CHAPTER  XVI. 

COOKS  AND  THEIR  NATURES. 

*'  It  18  a  curioQS  fact  that  almost  all  the  great  artists  in  this  line 
are  erratic,  restless,  and  inconstant.  They  seldom  stay  with  the 
same  employer,  be  he  as  liberal,  indulgent,  and  discriminating  as 
he  may.  Is  it  that  they  sigh  like  the  Macedonian  for  new  worlds 
to  conquer?" — Vide  "Tre  Aht  of  Dining." 

"  Si  les  gages  d'un  cuisinier,  et  surtout  les  habitudes  de  Tartiste 
vons  le  rendent  trop  dispendieux,  bomez-vous  au  eordon-hleu. 
Faites  choix  d^une  cuisini^re  active,  propre." — Nouyeau  Almanack 

DES   GOUKUANDS. 

SPEAKING  of  cooks  in  the  "  Manuel  des  Am- 
phitryons,"  Grimod  de  la  Reyniere  observes 
compassionately,  that  we  enjoy  the  result  of  their 
toils  without  considering  the  cost  of  the  ineffable 
enjoyments  they  procure  for  us,  and  without  reflect- 
ing that  they  only  derive,  from  their  incessant  ex- 
ertions, impaired  health  and  means  of  subsistence 
that  are  often  precarious  and  almost  always  mode- 
rate. "  They  spend  their  best  days,"  he  says,  "  in 
heat  and  obscurity,  and  their  last  in  poverty  too 
often  bordering  on  destitution."  The  pitiful  epicure 
could  only  hope  it  consoled  them  to  reflect  that 
the  author  of  the  "  Cid"  endured  a  fate  no  less 
melancholy. 


FOREIGN   COOKS.  321 

For  centuries  we  have  been  indebted  to  France 
for  the  majority  of  our  best  cooks.  The  Anglo- 
Norman  epicures  employed  Saxon  serfs  in  kitchen 
drudgery,  but  their  chefs  were  Frenchmen  or 
Itahans.  The  same  practice  prevailed  amongst  our 
nobility  when  the  victorious  and  vanquished 
races  had  become  one  people.  Harrison  speaks  of 
the  "  musicall-headed  Frenchmen  and  strangers " 
who  rendered  culinary  service  to  the  English 
lords  of  Elizabethan  time.  Of  the  forty-five 
chefs  mentioned  by  Mr.  Hayward  for  hiving 
achieved  eminence  in  this  country  during  the 
present  century,  only  five  are  English,  whilst  the 
other  forty  are  French. 

In  our  Catholic  period,  artistes  of  Italian  birth, 
who  came  hither  in  the  train  of  Roman  ecclesiastics, 
formed  a  considerable  minority  of  the  foreign  cooks 
retained  in  the  establishments  of  our  reliofious 
magnates,  and  in  houses  that  affected  the  humours 
and  tastes  of  the  mitred  hierarchy.  But  on  our 
rupture  with  Rome  the  southerners  returned  to 
their  native  land,  and  for  generations  their  cookery 
was  denounced  by  our  ancestors  with  equal  violence 
and  ignorance.  The  genius  of  cookery,  as  we  have 
before  observed,  moves  from  the  south  northwards. 
Our  Norman  cookery  was  taken  from  ancient  Rome. 
And  before  France  took  the  lead  in  culinary  science 

VOL.  II.  Y 


322  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

in  the  sixteenth  century,  her  noble  gourmets   got 
their  chefs  from  the  boot  of  Europe. 

Montaigne*s  cook,  who  figures  so  droUy  in 
one  of  the  scholar's  essays,  was  a  native  of  Italy, 
and  had  served  in  Cardinal  Caraffa's  kitchen  before 
entering  the  French  seigneur's  household.  Like  the 
chefs  of  ancient  Rome  whose  affectations  diverted 
Juvenal  and  Terence,  this  artiste  was  grandly 
eloquent  about  the  dignity  of  his  vocation,  and 
would  discourse  for  hours  together  on  the  mysteries 
of  his  art.  "  He  made,"  says  the  essayist,  who 
never  checked  his  servant's  loquacity  with  an  inop- 
portune smile,  "  a  learned  distinction  of  the  several 
sorts  of  appetite,  of  that  which  a  man  has  before  he 
begins  to  eat,  and  of  those  after  the  second  and 
third  service  ;  the  means  simply  to  satisfy  the  first, 
and  then  raise  and  quicken  the  other  two ;  the 
ordering  of  sauces,  first  in  general,  and  then  pro- 
ceeded to  the  qualities  of  the  several  ingredients 
and  their  effects ;  the  difference  of  salads  accord- 
ing to  their  seasons ;  which  of  them  ought  to  be 
served  hot  and  which  cold;  the  manner  of  their 
garnishment  and  decoration ;  after  which  he  entered 
upon  the  order  of  the  whole  service."  Continuing 
a  description  not  more  true  of  the  particular  cook 
than  of  Carfeme,  Ude,  Grimod,  Dumas,  and  all  the 
culinary  professors  and  amateurs  who  have  in  later 
times  enlightened  the  world  on  their  special  subject, 


«*». 


UDB   ON   HIS   AKT.  323 

Montaigne  adds,  "  And  all  this  was  set  out  with 
lofty  and  magnificent  words,  the  very  same  we 
make  use  of  when  we  discourse  of  the  government 
of  an  empire.** 

In  magniloquence  of  this  kind,  Ude  equalled 
the  most  florid  of  the  old  writers  on  cookery,  and 
has  not  been  surpassed  by  any  other  later  scribe. 
He  maintained  that  to  compose  an  oratorio  or  opera 
was  an  easier  feat  than  to  invent  a  new  entree,  and 
that  a  man  of  the  requisite  natural  endowments 
could  sooner  qualify  himself  to  compete  with  the 
Royal  Academicians  than  with  the  chief  operators 
in  cookery.  "  I  shall,"  he  observes,  "  demonstrate 
the  diflficulty  of  the  art  by  some  observations  on 
other  arts.  Music,  painting,  and  mechanics  in 
general  possess  professors  under  twenty  years  of 
age,  whereas  in  the  first  line  of  cooking  pre- 
eminence never  occurs  under  thirty.  We  see  daily 
at  the  concerts  and  academies  young  men  and 
women  who  display  the  greatest  abilities ;  but  in 
our  line,  nothing  but  the  most  consummate  ex- 
perience can  elevate  a  man  to  the  rank  of  Chief- 
Professor.'*  Prescriptions  are  dispensed  by  weight 
and  measure,  but  dishes  owe  their  virtue  to  sym- 
pathy, tact,  nervous  sensibility,  and  momentary 
inspirations.  "  The  pharmacist,**  remarks  Louis 
Eustache,  "  is  obliged  to  weigh  every  ingredient 
that  he  employs,  as  he  does  not  like  to  taste  it ; 

T  2 


824  A.  BOOK   ABOUT  THE   TABLE. 

the  cook,  on  the  contrary,  must  taate  often,   aa  the 
reduction  increases  the  flavour.     It  would  be  blind 
work,  indeed,  without  tasting ;  the  very  best  soups 
in  which  you  have  omitted  to  put  salt,  are  entirely 
without  flavour ;  seasoning  is  in  cookery  %ohat  chords 
are  in  music  ;  the  best  instrument  in  the  hands  of 
the   best  professor,  without  its   being  in   tune,  is 
insipid."     Speaking  of  Gonthier  d'Andernach,  whom 
he  designates  "  the  Father  of  Cookery  in  France," 
and  "  a  star  which  shone  in  the  Reformation,"  Ude 
exclaims    with    emotion,    "  What   Bacon    was    to 
philosophy,  Dante  and  Petrarch  to  poetry,  Michael 
Angelo   and  Raphael  to   painting,  Columbus  and 
Gama   to  geography,    Copernicus   and    Galileo   to 
astronomy,  Gonthier  was  in  France  to  the  art  of 
cookery.     Gonthier  appeared  to  raise  the  culinary 
edifice,  as  Descartes,  a   century  after  him,  raised 
that  of   philosophy.     Both  introduced    doubt — the 
one  in  the  moral,  the  other  in  the  political  world." 
Ude,  by  the  way,  was  the  first  gastronomic  writer 
to  define  clearly  and  distinctively  the  terms  "  entree" 
and  "  entremet."     It  was  usual  for  authors  to  use 
those  very  different  words  loosely,  as  though  they 
were  nearly,   if   not  altogether,    synonymous ;  till 
Ude  declared  authoritatively  that  whilst  the  former 
described  "  any  dish  of  meat,  fowl,  game,  or  fish, 
dressed  and  cooked  for  the  first  course,"  the  latter 
was  applicable    to  "all    vegetable  dishes,   jellies, 


DISCIPLINE   FOB   COOKS. 


325 


pastries,  salads,  prawns,  lobsters,  and  in  general 
to  everything  that  appears  in  the  second  course, 
except  the  roast.*'  To  Ude*s  honour,  also,  be  it 
remembered  that  he  was  the  reformer  who  sub- 
stituted the  light  buffet-supper  of  sandwiches  and 
sweets  at  fashionable  routs,  for  the  heavier  and  less 
accessible  repast  hitherto  served  on  tables  to  such 
of  the  guests  as  could  approach  them.  The  artiste 
carried  this  important  reform  whilst  he  was  in  the 
Earl  of  Sefton's  service ;  and  he  was  chiefly  moved 
to  effect  it  by  chivalrio  regard  for  the  ladies,  who 
often  went  without  supper  rather  than  expose 
their  toilettes  to  disarrangement  and  injury  in  a, 
struggle  for  seats. 

Cooks  may  be  managed  in  various  ways.  They 
may  be  flogged,  flouted,  physicked,  fed,  or  flattered. 
The  floggings  may  be  given  with  whip  or  tongue — 
with  the  whip  in  lands  where  patriarchal  govern- 
ment prevails  from  the  court  to  the  cabin  ;  with  the 
tongue  in  communities  whose  high  civilization 
forbids  the  master  to  correct  his  servants  with  cor- 
poral punishment.  In  ancient  Rome  the  cook 
guilty  of  serving  a  flavourless  soup  or  insipid  patina 
was  usually  warmed  with  the  scutica,  or  torn  with 
the  "  flagellum  j'*  the  punishment  being  sometimes 
inflicted  in  the  presence  of  the  injured  and  resentful  ^ 
feasters.  The  same  discipline  prevailed  throughout 
Europe  in  the  Middle  Ages,  and  lingers  even  yet 


326  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

amongst  its  ruder  peoples.  In  Russia,  where  no  one 
but  the  Czar  is,  in  theory,  altogether  exempt  from  the 
lash,  cooks  are  occasionally  beaten  for  indolence  or 
remissness.  A  staggering,  though  not  discredited, 
writer  asserts  that  it  is  not  unusual  in  Poland  for  a 
gentleman  of  the  old  school  to  avenge  himself  for  a 
bad  dinner  by  beating  his  chef,  who  no  sooner 
escapes  from  the  scene  of  punishment  than  he 
makes  all  his  subordinates  participate  in  his  dis- 
grace by  drubbing  them  soundly.  But  the  English 
gourmand,  unless  he  lives  in  a  West  Indian  colony, 
cannot  relieve  his  anger  and  correct  culinary  vices 
in  this  primitive  fashion.  The  tongue  is  the  only 
instrument  with  which  he  can  lawfully  flagellate  his 
cook  for  the  most  heinous  delinquencies. 

And  his  interest,  no  less  than  his  dignity,  counsels 
him  to  refrain  from  angry  expostulations  with  faulty 
rainistrants  who  are  seldom  improved  by  scornful 
or  vehement  words.  Just  as  gentlemen  prefer  to 
sell  badly-trained  horses  rather  than  sufi*er  the  pain 
and  humiliation  of  flogging  them,  the  self-respecting 
master,  instead  of  scolding  him,  dismisses  the  ser- 
vant who  tries  his  temper.  It  is  far  better  to  physic 
than  to  flout  such  defaulters.  Dr.  Kitchener  was  a 
strong  advocate  of  the  medical  discipline  mentioned 
in  an  earlier  Chapter.  "  If,*'  says  the  Doctor,  *'  you 
find  your  cook  neglect  his  business,  and  that  his 
ragouts  are  too  highly  spiced  and  salted,  and  his 


EXPOSTULATION   AND   FLATTEfiY.  327 

cookery  has  too  much  of  the  ^  haut  goAt/  you  may 
be  sure  that  his  Index  of  Taste  wants  regulating, — 
his  palate  has  lost  its  sensibility,  and  it  is  high  time 
to  call  in  the  assistance  of  the  apothecary." 

Even  in  countries  where  law  and  sentiment  coun- 
tenance its  use,  harshness  never  succeeds  with  a 
chef  of  natural  ability.  Always  nervous  and  highly 
sensitive,  and  often  morbidly  vain,  he  is  depraved 
by  unkindness,  but  may  be  stimulated  to  incredible 
exertions,  and  even  rendered  consistently  virtuous, 
by  discreet  administrations  of  eulogy  and  very  lenient 
censure.  His  trivial  shortcomings,  when  infre- 
quent, should  be  overlooked;  his  grave  faults 
should  be  treated  as  his  misfortunes  rather  than  as 
sins,  and  should  be  brought  under  his  consideration 
with  the  delicacy  that  qualifies  the  expostulations 
of  friendship,  and  with  the  tenderness  of  parental 
admonishment.  On  the  other  hand,  whilst  receiv- 
ing proper  acknowledgments  of  his  ordinary  en- 
deavours, he  should  from  time  to  time  be  praised 
cordially,  even  rapturously  for  exceptional  efforts. 
It  is  far  better  to  flatter  him  egregiously  than  to 
let  him  imagine  himself  the  victim  of  indifference. 
The  Duke  of  Wellington  could  never  keep  his  chief 
cooks  because  of  his  want  of  special  discernment 
and  sympathy.  Felix  was  not  the  only  chef  who 
was  successively  pained,  piqued,  exasperated,  and 
driven  from  Apsley  House  by  its  master's  coldness. 


328  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

"  My  Lord,"  Felix  exclaimed  one  morning  to 
Lord  Seaford  after  seeking  an  interview  with  that 
genial  patron  of  gastronomy,  "  I  have  left  Apsley 
House.  I  could  bear  it  no  longer.  Take  me  again 
into  your  service,  my  Lord.  I  want  no  salary.  My 
only  desire  is  to  serve  you  once  more." 

"  My  poor  fellow,"  Lord  Seaford  returned,  "  dry 
your  eyes  and  tell  me  all  about  it.  What  is  the 
matter  ?     Has  the  Duke  been  finding  fault  ?" 

"  Oh  no,  my  Lord,"  Felix  exclaimed  passionately ; 
"  I  would  have  stayed  with  him  if  he  had  honoured 
me  with  a  reproof.  But  he  takes  no  notice  of  me. 
He  passes  over  me,  as  if  I  were  a  door-mat.  I  serve 
him  a  dinner  that  would  make  Ude  or  Francatelli 
burst  with  envy,  and  he  says  nothing.  I  serve  hira 
with  a  poor  dinner,  dressed,  and  badly  dressed,  by 
a  maid-cook,  aihd   he  says  nothing.     If  he  were  a 

hundred  times  a  hero  1  could    not    serve  such  a 

• 

master  and  preserve  my  powers.  My  body  might 
live,  but  my  genius  would  die."  It  is  needless  to 
add  that  Lord  Seaford  granted  Felix  his  desire. 

Instead  of  driving  them  to  despair  by  his  cold- 
ness, the  Duke  of  Beaufort  seized  every  opportunity 
to  compliment  his  chefs.  One  of  his  subtle  flat- 
teries was  to  invite  them  to  communicate  their 
ideas  to  him  as  soon  as  they  had  conceived  them. 
His  Grace  was  roused  one  night  from  his  first 
slumber  by  a  knock  at  his  bedroom  door,  and,  on 


■ 

/ 


i 


A   PRINCELY   COMPLIMENT.  329 

asking  quickly  what  was  the  matter,  learnt  that  his 
untimely  visitor  was  his  favourite  Neapolitan  con- 
fectioner. 

^'  It  is  only  I,  Signer  Due,"  said  the  artiste ;  ^*  I 
was  at  the  Opera,  and  I  have  been  dreaming  of  the 
music — Donizetti's  music — and  I  have  an  idea  for  a 
new  sorbet.  I  have  named  my  invention  after  the 
composer,  and  I  announce  it  to  your  Grace.'* 

"  Excellent,  my  friend,"  rejoined  the  patron,  "  I 
congratulate  you  heartily.  And  now,  leave  me  to 
dream  of  your  sorbet.'* 

The  Prince  Regent,  at  all  times  a  master  of  the 
art  of  complaisance,  overflowed  with  courtesy  to 
his  cooks.  "  My  dear  Careme,"  he  once  said  to  the 
famous  Frenchman,  "  your  dinner  yesterday  was 
superb.  Everything  you  gave  me  was  delicious ; 
but  you  will  make  me  die  of  indigestion."  The 
compliment  was  perfect,  far  ^more  acceptable  to  the 
chef's  vanity  than  any  speech  that  made  no  reference 
to  the  indigestibility  of  some  of  the  cook's  produc- 
tions. No  flatterer  could  go  further  than  to  declare 
himself  powerless  to  abstain  from  meats  which  he 
knew  would  eventually  kill  him.  "  Mon  Prince," 
returned  Careme,  bowing  low,  "my  duty  is  to 
flatter  your  appetite,  not  to  control  it."  But  even 
the  complaisance  of  the  finest  gentleman  of  Europe 
could  not  reconcile  Careme  to  our  grey  skies  and 
foggy  atmosphere,  which  covered  him  with  melan- 


332  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

reign,  "  shall  be  my  first  cook,  because  he  makes 
excellent  Rhenish  soup."  Such  advancement  could 
not  fail  to  make  the  favourite  a  mark  for  jealousy 
and  kitchen  intrigue.  A  conspiracy  was  formed  to 
discredit  him  with  his  patron.  If  the  King  grumbled 
at  entree  or  entremet,  he  was  sure  to  be  informed 
by  a  lacquey  in  attendance  that  Weston  had  pre- 
pared the  faulty  dish.  "  Strange,"  said  the  King, 
who  suspected  the  plot,  "  that  Weston  is  always  de 
gulbrit ;  henzford  my  googs  shall  mark  deir  dishes 
here  as  dey  do  in  Hanover."  The  reform  had  the 
anticipated  result.  From  the  date  of  the  change 
Weston  was  safe.  If  he  produced  his  "  failures," 
he  at  least  escaped  reproof.  For  the  King  was 
never  heard  to  depreciate  a  performance  which  the 
carte  assigned  to  his  protege. 

In  one  of  the  most  diverting  passages  of  his 
"  Table  Traits,"  Dr.  Doran  has  shown  how  large  a 
proportion  of  the  noble  celebrities  of  Louis  the 
Fourteenth's  and  Louis  the  Fifteenth's  courts  are 
commemorated  in  the  names  of  culinary  dainties 
dedicated  to  them  by  successive  inventors.  Queens 
of  virtue  and  duchesses  without  virtue,  famous  ge- 
nerals and  frivolous  chamberlains  figure  in  this  list 
of  gastronomic  notabilities,  which  opens  with  the 
Marquis  de  Bechamel,  the  "rich  financier"  and 
**  great  epicure,"  whose  cream-sauce  for  turbot  and 
cod  has  been    extolled  with    grandiloquence  by  a 


ECONOMICAL   AND   WASTEFUL    COOKS.  333 

score  historians  of  the  table,  including  De  la  Rey- 
nifere  and  Ude.  By-the-way,  the  last-named  author 
expresses  his  surprise  that  so  few  of  the  gastronomic 
leaders  of  England  have  been  honoured  thus  fitly 
with  culinary  dedications,  which  were  no  less  fashion- 
able in  ancient  Rome  than  modern  Paris.  In 
this  matter  the  French  chefs  of  the  seventeenth  and 
eighteenth  centuries  were  mere  imitators  of  the 
Apician  artistes  who,  as  the  "  De'Opsoniis"  testifies, 
used  to  name  their  finest  performances  after  such 
persons  as  Varro,  Juliu^  Matius,  Julius  Fronto, 
Celsinius,  Vitellius,.Commodus,  Didius  Julianus,  and 
Elagabalus. 

Chefs  are  divisible  into  two  classes,  the  prodigal, 
who  scornfully  decline  to  trouble  themselves  with 
questions  of  expense  ;  and  the  economical,  who  de- 
light in  producing  grand  results  with  modest  ma- 
terials. Soyer,  who  wrote  a  cookery-book  for  the 
million  whilst  controlling  the  kitchen  of  a  West  End 
club,  may  be  regarded  as  a  type  of  the  ingenious 
and  condescending  artistes  who,  representing  the 
culinary  ideas  and  principles  of  the  nineteenth 
century,  were  unknown  in  previous  times.  Of  the 
older  and  far  more  numerous  class — who,  indeed, 
constituted  the  entire  order  of  chefs  before  the 
dawn  of  political  science  and  the  birth  of  utilitarian 
thought — Bertrand  may  be  taken  as  a  brilliant  ex- 
ample.   Whilst  holding  ofl&ce  in   the  household  of 


334  A   BOOK   ABOUT   THE   TABLE. 

the  Prince  de  Soubise,  famous  to  this  day  for  his 
"  cdtelettes,"  Bertraad  was  required  to  exhibit  to 
the  Prince  his  scheme  of  operations  for  a  supper. 
"  Merciful  heavens !"  exclaimed  the  Prince  at  the 
first  item  of  his  cook's  list  of  requisitions,  "  what 
can  you  want  with  fifty  hams  for  a  single  supper  ? 
I  am  not  going  to  feast  a  regiment  of  soldiers  ?" 

•*  True,  my  Prince,**  was  the  answer,  uttered 
with  delightful  sang-froid,  "  and  only  one  ham  will 
appear  on  the  table ;  but  I  shall  require  the  other 
forty-nine  for  my  gravies,  for  my  decorations,  for 
my 

"  Bertrand,"  the  Prince  interposed  sharply,  "  you 
are  robbing  me,  and  this  preposterous  demand  is 
disallowed." 

-  Controlling,  with  a  great  efibrt,  his  indignation 
at  such  unprincely  niggardliness,  Bertrand  answered 
lightly,  **  Ah,  monseigneur,  you  know  little  of  my 
resources.  Bid  me  dp  so,  and  I  will  put  all  those 
fifty  hams  into  a  crystal  bottle  no  larger  than  your 
thumb.'* 

What  could  be  urged  in  reply  ?  Of  course  the 
Prince  ceased  to  object,  and  Bertrand  had  his  way. 
Many  a  writer  has  reproduced  Madame  de  S^vigny's 
account  of  Vatel's  heroic  death.  But  the  story 
may  be  repeated  again.  Indeed,  it  cannot  be  told 
too  often.  For  several  years  the  chef  of  the 
Prince  de  Cond^,  Yatel  was  endowed  with  honour 


A   COOK^S   PESPAIB,  335 

even  more  sensitive  than  his  palate.  The  King  was 
Condi's  guest,  and  Vatel  was  making  strenuous 
exertions  to  maintain  his  master*s  reputation,  when 
a  series  of  misadventures  closed  in  a  dismal  though 
ennobling  tragedy.  The  number  of  the  company 
greatly  exceeding  the  Prince's  expectations,  the 
arrangements  at  the  first  dinner  were  defective. 
Some  of  the  inferior  tables  had  no  roast,  a  fact 
that  distressed  Vatel  immensely,  causing  him  to  ex- 
claim repeatedly,  "  I  am  dishonoured ;  this  is  a 
disgrace  that  I  cannot  endure."  At  night  the  rain 
occasioned  a  failure  of  the  fire-works,  on  which 
]  6,000  francs  had  been  expended — a  misfortune  that 
troubled  the  chef,  although  it  was  no  affair  of  his 
special  department.  Everything  to  his  excited  brain 
seemed  to  be  going  wrong.  On  the  following  morur 
ing,  though  Vatel  had  despatched  messengers  to 
half-a-score  sea-ports  for  materiel,  it  appeared  that 
no  adequate  supply  of  sea-fish  would  arrive  in  time 
for  dinner.  "  Is  that  all  ?"  Vatel  inquired  despair- 
ingly of  an  inferior  purveyor  whom  he  had,  in  his 
agitation,  mistaken  for  the  chief  fish-caterer.  Un- 
aware that  supplies  of  fish  were  coming  from 
several  quarters,  the  man  answered  gloomily,  "  Yes, 
I  could  get  no  more."  The  cruel  answer  was  more 
than  Vatel  could  endure.  Hastening  from  the  giver 
of  the  agonising  intelligence,  Vatel  encountered  De 
Gourville,   to  whom   he   remarked,    "  Monsieur,    I 


336  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

shall  never  survive  this  disgrace."  Five  minutes 
later  the  chef  was  lying  in  his  private  room  dead, 
from  three  wounds  which  he  had  given  himself  in 
the  region  of  the  heart.  Fixing  his  sword  in  the 
door  of  his  chamber,  he  had  thrown  himself  on  its 
point,  twice  without  mortal  effect,  a  third  time  with 
a  desperate  resolution  that  caused  the  blade  to 
penetrate  the  seat  of  life.  He  had  escaped  that 
hateful  thing,  "a  shamed  life,"  by  self-murder. 
The  breath  had  scarcely  left  his  body,  when  mes- 
sengers arrived  from  all  quarters  with  an  abundance 
of  sea-fish.  Indeed,  the  chefs  suicide  was  discovered 
by  the  servant  who  went  in  search  of  him,  in  order 
that  the  fish  might  be  inspected  and  distributed. 
Those  who  would  learn  how  Gond6  surrendered 
himself  to  despair,  and  the  Duke  shed  tears  on 
hearing  the  mournful  incident,  may  consult  Madame 
de  Sdvigny's  epistle  on  the  subject.  At  the  present 
date,  far  from  compassionating  his  end,  we  congra- 
tulate the  cook  on  an  event  that  placed  him  amongst 
heroes.  Such  a  death  was  alone  needed  to  ensure 
his  immortality. 

It  is  the  mistake  of  many  persons  to  suppose  that 
**  cordon-bleu,"  in  its  culinary  sense,  signifies  an 
admirable  cook  of  either  sex.  The  term  is  applic- 
able only  to  the  very  few  female  cooks  who  have 
attained  to  the  highest  degree  of  excellence  in  their 
art.     Trained  by   Hdliot — some  of  whose  master- 


THE    FIRST   CORDON-BLEU.  337 

pieces  are  recorded  in  Careme's  *'  Parallfele  de  la 
Cuisine  Ancienne  et  Moderne,"  and  by  other  chefs 
of  similar  brilliance,  to  believe  that  culinary  prowess 
of  the  first  order  was  beyond  the  reach  of  woman- 
kind, Louis  the  Fifteenth  used  to  speak  disdainfully 
of  women-cooks,  till  Madame  Dubarry  gave  him  a 
lesson  that  modified  his  opinion  on  this  point,  and 
raised  her  sex  in  his  esteem.  The  King  had  eaten 
with  unusual  gust  a  dinner  to  which  Madame 
Dubarry  had  invited  him,  when  he  exclaimed 
rapturously, 

"Who  is  this  new  cuisinier  of  yours?  Let  me 
know  his  name,  that  he  may  henceforth  be  one 
of  our  royal  household  ?'* 

The  lady's  triumph  was  complete,  for  the  whole 
repast  was  the  performance  of  a  female  artiste. 

•*  Ah,  I  have  caught  you  1"  she  said,  laughing 
merrily.  "It  is  no  cuisinier,  but  a  cuisinifere,  to 
whom  your  Majesty  must  give  fit  recompense.  You 
made  my  negro,  Zamore,  Governor  of  Luciennes. 
Give  my  cuisinifere  a  cordon-hleuy 

Though  the  cuisiniere  was  not  raised  to  the  Order 
to  which  her  protectress  thought  her  entitled,  she 
acquired  enduring  distinction  in  being  the  first 
cordon-hleu  of  gastronomic  story,  and  in  winning 
for  eminent  cooks  of  her  sex  a  title  that  still 
remains  peculiarly  their  own. 

More  fortunate  in  finding  a  bard  to  preserve  his 

VOL.  II.  z 


338  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THB  TABLE. 

name  whilst  perpetuating  his  fame,  than  Madame 
Dubarry*s  "  ayrdon-bkuy*  was  Edward  Heardson 
(*•  Ned"  of  the  "  Beef-Steaks/')  whose  virtues  are 
commemorated  in  the  following  epitaph  by  Captain 
Charles  Morris,  the  anacreontic  songster  : — 

"  His  last  steak  done,  his  fire  raked  out  and  dead, 
Dish'd  for  the  worms  himself,  lies  Honest  Ned, 
We,  who  partook  of  all  his  fleshly  toils, 
Beceived  his  bastings,  too,  and  shared  his  broils» 
Now  in  our  tarn  a  mouthful  carve  and  trim. 
And  dress  at  Phoebus'  fire  our  steak  for  him. 
His  heart*  which  well  deserved  a  noble  grave. 
Was  watchful,  patient,  modest,  just,  and  brave. 
And  never  did  earth's  wide  maw  a  morsel  gain. 
Of  kindlier  juices  or  more  tender  grain. 
His  tongue,  where  duteous  friendship  humbly  dwelt. 
Charm *d  all  who  heard  the  faithful  zeal  he  felt. 
Still,  to  whatever  end  his  chops  he  moved, 
Twas  all  well  seasoned,  relished,  and  approved. 
This  room  his  heaven !  when  threatening  fate  drew  nigh, . 
And  death's  chill  shade  had  dimmed  his  lingering  eye. 
His  fondest  hopes,  betrayed  with  many  a  tear. 
Were  that  his  life's  last  spark  might  glimmer  here ; 
And  the  last  words  that  choked  his  parting  sigh, 
'Ob,  at  your  feet,  dear  masters,  let  me  die.' ''  | 

Mr.  Arnold's  notes  to  these  lines  record  that  Ned 
was  a  clever  pugilist,  and  demonstrated  his  attach- 
to  the  Sublime  Steaks  by  causing  himself,  in  his 
closing  hour,  to  be  brought  into  the  Society's 
dining-room,  where  he  drew  his  last  breath. 


339 


CHAPTER  XVIL 

COOKERY  BOOKS. 

"  The  subject  of  cookery  having  been  very  naturally  introduced  at 
a  table  where  Johnson,  who  boasted  of  the  niceness'  of  his  palate, 
owned  that  'he  always  found  a  good  dinner/  he  said,  'I  could 
write  a  better  book  of  cookery  than  has  ever  been  written;  it 
should  be  a  book  on  philosophical  principles.    Pharmacy  is  now 

made  much  more  simple.     Cookery  could  be  made  so  too 

Women  can  spin  very  well ;  but  they  cannot  make  a  good  book  of 
cookery.'" — Boswbll's  "Lite  of  Johnson." 

"  He  who  conceives  it  is  a  desiderium 
To  salt  his  ihangoes  and  his  slaterium ; 
Or,  still  more  curious,  who  aspires  to  make 
Chantilly  baskets,  or  a  Shrewsbury  cake ; 
Or  whip  his  cream,  his  syllabub,  and  trifle. 
The  sheets  of  Bundle  and  of  Smith  may  rifle. 
To  him  the  '  Housewife's  Pocket-Book'  I  lend. 
Or  the  last  '  Pastrycook's  Assistant'  send. 
If  more  receipts  he  wishes  let  him  seek  'em 
In  that  great  work,  '  The  Lady's  Yademecum.' 
If  'tis  a  female  would  her  sex  surpass, 
I'll  give,  inestimable  boon  I  my  Glass." 

The  Banquet,  In  three  Cantos.    (1819.) 

A  T  the  present  time  the  literature  of  the  English 
■^^  table  would  fill  the  shelves  of  a  large  cabinet. 
Three  centuries  since  the  book-collector  found  it 
difficult  to  fill  a  single  small  shelf  with  culinary 
books  known  to  English  housewive3.  The  "  Forme 
of  Cury/'  in  different  degrees   of  incompleteness, 

z  2 


340  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

was  ready  to  his  hand.  He  had  half-a-dozen  manu- 
script tracts  to  which  reference  has  been  made  in 
the  previous  pages  of  this  work ;  and  he  could 
bring  together  twenty  or  more  collections  of  receipts 
gathered  from  imperfect  copies  of  "  The  Forme" 
and  "  The  Roll"  of  Cury.  But  the  oldest  of  the 
printed  books  which  the  modern  epicure  delights  to 
place  in  his  library  of  English  gastronomers  came 
from  Elizabethan  presses. 

Abraham     Veale's     "Proper     New     Booke    of 
Cookery"  (1575)  was  followed,  after  an  interval  of 
twenty  years,  by  *"  The  Good  Huswives  Handmaid, 
for  Cookerie  in  Her  Kitchin,  in  Dressing  all  Manner 
of  Meat."     That  there  was  a  general  and  strong 
demand  for  new  cookery-books  towards  the  close  of 
the  sixteenth  century,  appears  from  the  quickness 
with   which   new   collections   of  receipts,    or   new 
editions   of  old   collections,  followed   one  another 
from  the  bookstalls  to  the  pantry  during  the  last 
years  of  Elizabeth's  reign.     This    was  the  period 
which  gave  birth  to  "  The  Widdowes'   Treasure ; 
plentifully    furnished    with   Sundry   Precious   and 
Approved  Secrets  in  Physicke  and  Chirurgery,  for 
the  Health  and  Pleasure  of  Mankind,"  a  treatise 
whose  culinary  worth  was  proclaimed  by  the  author's 
announcement  on   the  title-page,   "  Hereunto   are 
adjoined  sundrie  prittie  practices  and  conclusions  of 
cookerie^    with    many    profitable    and    wholesome 


DAWSON    AND   HILL.  341 

medicines    for    sundry   diseases   in    catell."      The 
generous  art  was  treated  more  respectfully  in  the 
•*  Good  Huswife's  Jewel'*  (1596),  "wherein,"  says 
the  title-page,  "  is  to  be  found  most  excellent  and 
rare  devices  for  conceites  in  cookery,  found  out  by 
the  practice  of  Thomas   Dawson.      Whereunto   is 
adjoyned  sundry  approved  receits  for  many  soue- 
raine  oyles,  and  the   way  to  distil  many  precious 
waters,  with  divers  approved  medicines  for  many 
diseases."     Cookery  precedes  medicine  in  Thomas 
Dawson's   title-page;    and    though    he    gave    the 
housewife  seasonable   instruction   for  the   cure   of 
human  maladies,  he  disdained  to  diversify  his  orders 
for   soups    and    pasties,    with    directions    for    the 
making  of  horse-balls.     In  the  second  part  of  his 
elegant   performance    (1597),   Mr.    Dawson   is    al- 
together   silent    on    medical    matters.       But    the 
practice  of  intermingling  medical  and  culinary  in- 
struction, in  literature  specially  addressed  to  matrons 
and  housewives,   prevailed  for  more  than  another 
century.     "  The  Queen's  Closet   Opened :    Incom- 
parable Secrets  in  Physic,   Chirurgery,  Preserving 
and  Candying,"  a  popular  manual  with  housewives 
in  the  later  decades  of  the  seventeenth  century,  was 
published  in  1671,  together  with  "A  Queen's  De- 
light" and  "  The  Compleat  Cook."     With  a  doctor's 
sensitiveness  for  the  honour  of  his  profession.  Sir 
John  Hill  refrained  from  making  his  hand-book  of 


342  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

cookery  a  manual  of  domestic  medicine;    but  its 
earlier  editions  contained  "A  receipt  against  the 
Plague,"  and  two  receipts  for  "  the  certain  cure  for 
the  bite  of  a  mad  dog."     One  of  these  preservatives 
against  hydrophobia  was  long  famous  as  Dr.  Mead's 
receipt.     "  Let  the  patient,"  it  says,  "  be  blooded  at 
the  arm  nine  or  ten  ounces.     Take  the  herb,  called 
in  Latin   Michen  cinereus  terrestris,'   in   English, 
ash-coloured  ground  liverwort,    clean,    dried,  and 
powdered,  half-an-ounce.     Mix  these  well  together, 
and  divide  the  powder  into  four  doses,  one  of  which 
must  be   taken   every   morning  fasting,   for    four 
mornings  successively,  in  half-a-pint  of  cow's  warm 
milk.     After  these  four  doses,  the  patient  must  go 
into  the  cold  bath,  or  a  cold  spring  or  river  every 
morning  fasting  for  a  month.     He  must  be  dipt  all 
over,  but  not  stay  in  (with  his  head  above  water) 
longer  than  half  a  minute,  if  the  water  be  very  cold. 
After  this  he  must  go  in  three  times  for  a  fortnight 
longer.     N.B. — The  lichen  is  a  very  common  herb, 
and  grows  generally  in  sandy  and  barren  soils  all 
over  England.     The  right  time  to  gather  it  is  in  the 
months  of  October  and  November." 

The  cookery  books  of  the  seventeenth  century  are 
numerous.  To  give  the  titles  of  all  of  them  would 
be  to  fill  a  page  to  little  purpose.  The  student, 
however,  may  be  directed  to  the  "  Delightfull  Daily 
Exercise  for  Ladies'  Gentlewomen"   (1621),  John 


LORD   BACON   ON   MOJftTREWS.  843 

Murreirs  "New  Book  of  Cookery"  (1630),  "A 
Book  of  Cookery  and  the  Order  of  Meats'*  (1650), 
"  Archimagirus  Anglo-Gallicus"  (1658),  by  the 
psendo  Sir  Theodore  Mayerne,  Bobert  May's  "  Ac- 
complisht  Cook;  or,  the  Art  and  Mystery  of 
Cookery"  (1660),  the  "Court  and  Kitchen  of 
Elizabeth,  commonly  called  Joan  Cromweir*  (1664), 
the  "  Closet  of  Sir  Kenelm  Digbie,  Knight,  Opened'* 
(1669),  Giles  Rose's  "  Perfect  Schoole  of  Instruc- 
tions for  Officers  of  the  Mouth"  (1682),  the  "Ac- 
complished Ladies  Delight  in  Preserving,  Physick, 
Beautifying,  and  Cookery"  (1684),  the  "  Young 
Cook's  Monitor"  (1692),  and  John  Evelyn's  "  Ace- 
taria:  a  Discourse  of  Sallets"  (1699.) 

To  his  honour  be  it  recorded  that  Lord  Bacon  was 
one  of  the  seventeenth  century  writers  on  cookery. 
The  philosopher  who  touched  upon  every  subject  of 
human  interest,  and  adorned  whatever  he  touched, 
gave  the  world  some  notable  papers  on  culinary 
affairs  in  his  "  Natural  History."  Together  with 
minute  directions  for  making  **  Chicken  in  Beer,'* 
(the  China  ale  of  subsequent  writers),  and  for  pre- 
paring such  drinks  as  almond  milk,  mint  milk,  rose 
milk,  and  egg  wine  (flip),  he  gives  receipts  for 
mortrews  and  mince-pies.  **  A  mortress,"  he  says, 
''made  with  the  brawn  of  capon,  stamped  and 
strained,  and  mingled,  after  it  is  made  with  a  like 
quantity,  at  the  least,  of  almond  butter,  is  an  excel- 


344  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLB. 

lent  meat  to  nourish  those  that  are  weak,  better 
than  blankmanger,  or  jelly ;  and  so  is  the  cuUice  of 
cocks,  boiled  thick  with  the  like  mixture  of  almond 
butter ;  for  the  mor tress  or  cuUice,  of  itself,  is  more 
savoury  and  strong,  and  not  so  fit  for  nourishing  of 
weak  bodies,  but  the  almonds  thai;  are  not  of  so 
high  a  taste  do  excellently  qualify  it." 

Of  mince-pies  he  observes,  "  mincing  of  meat,  as 
in  pies  and  buttered  mincemeat,  saveth  the  grinding 
of  the  teeth ;  and  therefore,  no  doubt,  it  is  more 
nourishing,  especially  in  age,  or  to  them  that  have 
weak  teeth;  but  the  butter  is  not  so  proper  for 
weak  bodies,  and  therefore  it  were  good  to  moisten 
it  with  a  little  claret  wine,  pill  of  lemon  or  orange, 
cut  small,  sugar,  and  a  very  little  cinnamon  or  nut- 
meg. As  for  chuets,  which  are  likewise  minced 
meat,  instead  of  butter  and  fat,  it  is  good  to  moisten 
them  partly  with  cream,  or  almond,  pistachio  milk, 
or  barley  or  maize-cream ;  adding  a  little  coriander 
seed  and  caraway  seed,  and  a  very  little  saffron." 

No  reader  of  the  foregoing  pages  requires  to  be 
told  that  the  eighteenth  century  produced  several 
new  cookery  books,  and  several  writers  who  illus- 
trated the  culinary  practices  of  former  times,  and 
delighted  to  record  the  curiosities  and  anomalies  of 
gourmandise.  In  early  years  of  that  age.  Queen 
Anne's  physician.  Lister,  was  at  work  on  his  learned 
edition  of  the  "De  Opsoniis"   (1710);  and  in  its 


THE   EIGHTEENTH    OENTDKY.  345 

later  years   the   London   antiquaries  paid  especial 
attention    to    the   cuisine    of   mediaeval    England. 
Pegge   published   his   edition   of  "  The   Forme   of 
Cury"  in  1780;  and  Warner  produced  the  "  An- 
tiquitates  Culinaria9"  in   J  791.     Having   described 
the  processes  of  the  Roman  kitchen  with  his  pen, 
to  the  lively  diversion  and  contempt  of  Dr.  King 
(who,   as   a   scholar,    might   have   exhibited   more 
respect  for  a  careful  student  and  a  scholarly  per- 
formance).   Lister    provoked    his    persecutor    yet 
further  by  illustrating  them  with   banquets    pre- 
pared for  his  table  in  classic  fashion.     At  a  later 
period  of  the   same   century,    Dr.   Akenside,    who 
pursued  the  delights  of  the  table  whilst  cherishing 
the  pleasures  of  the  imagination,  braved  the  ridicule 
of  society  by  repeating  Lister's   Apician  revivals. 
Even  as  the  earlier  physician  found  an  ungenerous 
critic  in  the  author  of  "  The  Art  of  Cookery,"  the 
later   doctor  encountered   a    bitter    and    offensive 
censor  in  Smollett,  who  caricatured  him  in  "  Pere- 
grine Pickle"   as  the  physician  who  gives  a  dinner 
after  the  manner  of  the  ancients. 

Enough  has  been  said  in  a  previous  chapter  of 
Mrs.  Glasse's  "Art  of  Cookery  Made  Plain  and 
Easy"  (1745),  which  remained  for  more  than  half- 
a-century  our  chief  authority  on  good  cheer.  Mrs. 
Elizabeth  Cleland,  who  published  "A  New  and 
Easy   Method   of  Cookery"    (1759),    was   only  a 


346  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THK  TABLB. 

shameless  pirate  of  Sir  John  Hill's  performance, 
which  she  reproduced  without  acknowledgment  and 
with  few  improvements.  But  though  it  had  a  consi- 
derable sale,  the  "  New  and  Easy  Method  "  did  not 
put  Mrs.  Glasse's  book  out  of  credit  of  fashion.  In 
spite  of  her  several  unscrupulous  competitors,  Mrs. 
Glasse  was  obeyed  meekly,  and  quoted  reverently, 
by  English  housewives,  until  after  a  long  tenure  of 
popularity  she  was  superseded  by  Mrs.  Rundle, 
who  produced  in  an  early  year  of  the  present 
century,  and  in  a  provincial  town,  the  cookery-book 
which,  on  its  publication  by  a  fashionable  London 
publisher,  made  her  famous  amongst  women. 

Mr.  Grant,  a  gentleman  who  has  written  with 
equal  rashness  and  confidence  about  things  of  earth 
and  things  of  heaven,  tells  in  his  "Portraits  of 
Public  Characters,"  a  strange  and  scarcely  accurate 
story  of  Mrs.  Rundle's  intercourse  with  her  London 
publisher,  **  The  case,"  says  our  artist  in  por- 
traiture, "  of  Mr.  Murray  in  connection  with  Mrs. 
BtimbolcCs  (sic)  book  of  cookery  has  often  been 
before  the  public,  but  considerable  misconception, 
I  believe,  still  exists  on  the  subject.  The  facts  as 
communicated  to  me  by  one  who  knew  a  good  deal 
of  Mr.  Murray's  business  transactions  at  the  time 
are  these  : — the  authoress  sent  the  manuscript  of  the 
work  to  Mr.  Murray,  with  a  request  that  if  he 
thought  the  work  worthy  of  publication  he  would 


THE    "NEW    SYSTEM,"  347 

bring  it  out  as  soon  as  convenient.  There  was 
not  only  no  specification  of  any  sum  for  copyright, 
but  not  the  slightest  hint  was  given  that  anything 
would  be  expected  for  it  in  the  event  of  its  being 
deemed  worthy  of  publication.  The  book  was  brought 
out  and  at  once  obtained  a  large  sale;  and  Mr. 
Murray,  acting  with  a  generosity  which  is  anything 
but  common  among  publishers,  sent  the  authoress 
a  cheque  for  £500.  Instead  of  appreciating  the 
generous  act,  the  lady,  finding  the  work  had  been 
successful,  immediately  brought  an  action  against 
Mr.  Murray  to  recover  the  copyright.  She  was 
unsuccessful  in  her  suit ;  the  verdict  was  with  the 
defendant.  Had  Mrs.  Bumbold  not  dragged  Mr. 
Murray  into  a  court  of  law  and  sought  to  compel 
him  to  relinquish  the  copyright  of  the  work,  it  is 
exceedingly  probable,  considering  the  continued 
success  of  the  work  and  the  publisher's  proverbial 
liberality,  that  the  first  cheque  of  £500  would  not 
have  been  the  last.  The  work  has  had  a  most 
extraordinary  sale.  I  believe  it  is  now  in  its  sixty- 
eighth  edition,  and  the  entire  number  of  copies  sold 
verges  on  150,000.  It  is  supposed  that  Mr.  Murray 
must  have  cleared  by  this  volume  the  enormous 
sum  of  £25,000." 

On  one  point  Mr.  Grant  is  certainly  wrong. 
The  book  was  written  by  a  Devonshire  lady  named 
Rundle,  not  Bumbold.     Again,  the  gentleman  who 


348  A   BOOK   ABOUT   THE   TABLE. 

knew  80  much  of  Mr.  Murray's  business,  was  pro- 
bably in  error  as  to  the  circumstances  under  which 
the  work  was  submitted  to  the  publisher's  notice. 
The  book  was  published  originally  at  Exeter.  Its 
third  edition  was  published  in  that  town  in  1808 ; 
and  the  work  had  achieved  a  great  reputation  in  the 
West  of  England  more  than  twenty  years  before  Mr. 
Murray  in  1829  oflTered  his  first  edition  to  a  larger 
public.  Knowing  the  history  of  the  work,  be 
perused  it  for  the  first  time  in  print,  and  had  no 
need  to  pass  judgment  on  the  lady's  manuscript. 
As  to  the  writer's  expectations  of  profit  from  her 
labours  it  may  be  observed  that  she  published  it 
in  Exeter,  and  re-published  it  in  London  with  the 
resolution  to  draw  no  money  from  the  venture. 
Mr.  Murray's  first  edition  of  the  "  New  System," 
by  "  a  lady,"  contains  the  preface  which  appeared 
in  the  original  edition,  and  ends  with  the  words : 
"  This  little  work  would  have  been  a  treasure  to 
herself  when  she  first  set  out  in  life,  and  she 
therefore  hopes  it  may  be  useful  to  others.  In 
that  idea  it  is  given  to  the  public,  and  she  will 
receive  from  it  no  emolument,  so  she  trusts  it  will 
escape  without  censure."  A  lady  of  condition, 
Mrs.  Rundle  lived  in  times  when  fortunate  gentle- 
women made  it  a  point  of  honour  not  to  earn 
money. 
For  sixteen  years  from  the  date  of  its  first  pub- 


MISS    ELIZA   ACTON.  349 

lication  in  London,  Mrs.  Bundle's  "  New  System'* 
was  emphatically  the  cookery-book  of  the  English 
household,  when  it  was  superseded  by  a  far  better 
book  from  a  lady's  pen. 

The  daughter  of  a  gentleman  of  Ipswich  who 
had  suffered  from  commercial  misadventure,  Eliza 
Acton  was  still  a  girl  when  she  was  known  in 
Suffolk  as  the  brightest  and  most  energetic  of  a 
numerous  and  clever  family.  In  1826  she  pub- 
lished at  Ipswich,  by  subscription,  a  volume  of 
"  Poems,"  and  then  with  a  full  sense  of  her  literary 
dignity  went  out  into  the  world  to  earn  her  living 
as  a  governess.  Ten  years  later,  when  she  had  left 
youth  behind  her  aud  was  on  the  threshold  of 
middle  age,  she  called  at  a  great  publishing  house 
in  Paternoster  Row,  and  begged  to  see  Mr.  Long- 
man. She  had  her  desire,  and  slightly  startled  the 
great  publisher  by  saying,  "  Sir,  I  jhave  called  to 
ask  for  your  advice."  On  being  invited  to  explain 
herself,  she  continued,  "  I  wish  to  write  a  book 
that  is  ideally  wanted.  Give  me  the  subject  of  a 
book  for  which  the  world  has  a  need,  and  I  will 
write  it  for  you." 

On  being  asked  if  she  was  already  an  author, 
she  answered  resolutely,  *^  I  am  a  poet ;  but  I  shall 
write  no  more  poems.  The  world  does  not  want 
poems." 

With  a  scarcely  perceptible  note  of  irony  in  his 


350  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE. 

civil  tone,  Mr,  Longman  said  to  the  lady  who 
was  ready  to  write  prose  on  any  subject :  "  Well, 
Miss  Acton,  we  want  a  good  cookery-book,  and  if 
you  write  me  a  really  good  one  I  shall  be  happy  to 
publish  it  for  yoti/* 

"  Then  you  advise  me  to  write  a  cookery-book  ?** 
"  I  should  advise  you  to  do  so,**  was  the  cautious 
answer,    "1/  I  were  confident  of  your  ability  to 
write  a  good  one.'* 

Years  went  on,  during  which  Miss  Acton,  who 
before  her  visit  to  Paternoster  Row,  had  given  but 
little  thought  to  cookery,  laboured  steadily  and 
systematically  in  coUectiug  the  requisite  materials. 
She  wrote  to  cooks  and  clever  housewives  in  every 
part  of  the  country.  Old  friends  in  the  Eastern 
Counties,  favouring  her  enterprise,  induced  great 
people  to  tell  their  cooks  to  help.  New  friends  in 
London  gave  her  introductions  to  epicures  from 
whom  she  gleaned  excellent  receipts,  and  learnt  the 
names  of  other  epicures  whom  she  lost  no  time  in 
assailing  with  entreaties  for  assistance,  fire  long 
there  was  neither  epicure  nor  chef  in  England  who 
had  not  been  addressed  by  Miss  Acton  with  flatter- 
ing letters  or  persuasive  speech.  The  result  of  her 
exertions,  carried  on  for  many  years  with  equal  re- 
soluteness and  good  temper,  was  the  "Modern 
Cookery  in  all  its  Branches,**  published  in  1845, 
which  continues  to  hold  its  place  in  the  esteem  of 


J 


FHENOH   INFLUENCE,  351 

housewives,  although  so  many  capital  books  in  the 
same  department  of  useful  literature  have  appeared 
during  the  last  twenty-five  years.  Miss  Acton  had 
her  reward.  She  derived  from  her  one  great  work 
an  adequate  provision  for  the  remainder  of  her  life. 

Whilst  the  number  and  merit  of  our  cookery- 
books  by  English  writers  have  been  growing,  we 
have  adopted  into  our  gastronomic  literature  the 
best  Continental  treatises  on  the  art.  Careme's 
"Maitre  d'H6ter*  influenced  art  scarcely  less  in 
England  than  in  France.  Even  if  they  had  not 
pursued  their  calling  in  this  country,  and  written 
with  special  regard  for  the  English  public,  Ude, 
Francatelli,  and  Soyer  would  have  taken  rank 
amongst  our  culinary  chieftains.  The  **  Artistic 
Cookery"  of  Urbain  Dubois  would  not  have  been 
more  completely  a  part  of  our  literature  had  he 
been  of  English  birth. 

In  another  department  of  gastronomic  literature 
we  are  largely  and  directly  indebted  to  France.  The 
works  of  Brillat-Savarin,  De  Cussy,  and  Grimod  de 
la  Reyniere  created  on  this  side  the  Channel  a  taste 
for  humorous  essays  on  good  living,  and  for  anec- 
dotes oi  gourvmndise  \  a  taste  which  called  into  exis- 
tence a  new  class  of  lively  and  entertaining  writers. 
Our  "Epicure's  Almanack"  (lbl5),  and  Dr.  Kitch- 
ener's "  Cook's  Oracle"  (1827),  were  the  direct 
literary  off'springs  of   the   "  Almanach   des   Gour- 


* 


352  A  BOOK  ABOUT  THE  TABLE, 

mands"  and  the  **  Physiologie  du  GoAt."  Had  he 
not  studied  the  **  Manuel  des  Amphitryons,**  Dick 
Hamelbergius  Secundus  would  never  have  given  us 
his  "  Apician  Morsels"  (1829).  The  same  influence 
is  discernible  in  the  best  of  Thomas  Walker's  gastro- 
nomic papers  of  "The  Originar'  (1835),  notwith- 
standing the  simpHcity  of  his  tastes  and  his  disdain 
for  meretricious  kickshaws.  That  the  appetite 
fpr  this  diverting  literature  is  not  extinct  may  be 
inferred  from  the  enduring  popularity  of  such  works 
as: Mr.  Hayward's  "Art  of  Dining,"  Dr.  Doran's 
"  Table  Traits,"  and  Mr.  Jerrold's  "  Epicure's  Year- 
Bc^ks." 


THE    END. 


I  «.■ 


i^ 


J  S'LuaiM :  Ptinted  b;  A.  Schuke,  IM,  Foltnd  SInet  ti  ■  1\ 


J 


