o 


O 

o 


v 


u 


o 


i 


Digitized  by  the  Internet  Archive 

in  2012  with  funding  from 

Friends  of  The  Lincoln  Collection  of  Indiana,  Inc. 


http://archive.org/details/abrahamlincolnshfoolinc 


I  J^f f«^l  .irHV.   all  onrfs  nf  pHihlft  fllllBi. 


Abraham  Lincoln's 

Habits 


Food 


Excerpts  from  newspapers  and  other 

sources 


From  the  files  of  the 
Lincoln  Financial  Foundation  Collection 


rcfo 


Lincoln's  Good  Habits. 

The  president  rose  early,  as  his  sleep 
was  light  and  capricious.  In  the  sum- 
mer, when  he  lived  at  the  soldiers' 
home,  he  would  take  his  frugal  break- 
fast and  ride  into  town  in  time  to  bo  at 
his  desk  at  8  o'clock,  writes  Colonel  John 
Hay  in  the  Century.  He  began  to  re- 
ceive visits  nominally  at  10  o'clock,  but 
long-  before  that  hour  struck  the  doors 
were  besieged  b}-  anxious  crowds, 
through  whom  the  people  of  importance, 
senators  and  members  of  congress, 
elbowed  their  way  after  the  fashion  which 
still  survives.  On  days  when  the  cab- 
inet met,  Tuesdays  and  Fridays,  the 
hour  of  noon  closed  the  interviews  of 
the  morning.  On  other  days  it  was  the 
president's  custom  at  about  that  hour  to 
order  the  doors  to  bo  opened  and  all  who 
were  waiting  to  be  admitted. 

At  luncheon  time  he  had  literally  to 
run  the  gantlet  through  the  crowds  who 
filled  the  corridors  between  his  office 
and  the  rooms  at  the  west  end  of  the 
house  occupied  by  the  family.  The  after- 
noon wore  away  in  much  the  same  man- 
ner as  the  morning;  late  in  the  day  he 
usually  drove  out  for  an  hour's  airing; 
at  6  o'clock  he  dined. 

He  was  one  of  the  most  abstemious  of 
men;  the  pleasures  of  the  table  had  few 
attractions  for  him.  His  breakfast  was 
an  egg  and  a  cup  of  coffee;  at  luncheon 
he  rarely  took  more  than  a  biscuit  and  a 
glass  of  milk,  a  plate  of  fruit  in  its  sea- 
son; at  dinner  he  ate  sparingly  of  one  or 
two  courses.  He  drank  little  or  no  wine; 
not  that  he  remained  always  on  princi- 
ple a  total  abstiner,  as  he  was  a  part  of 
his  early  life  in  the  fervor  of  the  "Wash- 
ingtonian"  reform;  but  he  never  cared 
for  wine  or  liquors  of  any  sort,  and 
never  used  tobacco. 


THE   LINCOLN    NATIONAL   LIFE   INSURANCE  CO.    BUILDING,    FORT  WAYNE.    IND. 


HOME  OFFICE   —   OCCUPIED  EXCLUSIVELY   BY   THE  COMPANY 


No  Lincoln  Family  Recipes 
Handed  Down  to  Posterity 


But  There  Are  Traditional 
Kentucky,  Illinois  Dishes 
That  Can  Be  Served  on 
President's  Birthday 

By  ALICE  RICHARDS 

WHAT  did  Abraham  Lincoln 
eat?  According  to  the  records 
the  early  Atlantic  coast  colonists  en- 
joyed good  food.  The  rich  harvests 
were  supplemented  with  imports 
from  abroad  and  many  of  the  fine 
recipes  were  passed  on  to  succeed- 
ing generations. 

But  Abraham  Lincoln  was  a  back- 
woodsman. In  1809  Kentucky  was 
not  densely  populated  and  neither 
was  Illinois  when  the  Lincoln  family 
moved  up  there  a  few  years  later. 
The  Thomas  Lincolns  were  poor 
people.  For  several  years  they  lived 
in  a  cabin  that  had  only  three  sides. 
Amidst  such  crude  surroundings  one 
can  understand  why  there  was  a 
paucity  of  family  recipes  and  why 
very  few  have  become  the  heritage 
of  posterity. 

We  have  every  reason  to  believe 
that  the  Lincolns  ate  exceedingly 
simple  food.  It  was  a  diet  depend- 
ent on  their  immediate  labors.  They 
tilled  the  soil,  hunted  and  fished. 
Because  of  their  geographical  loca- 
tion the  accepted  luxuries  of  the 
seaboard  were  rare. 

Famed  Kentucky  Burgoo 

Kentucky,  Lincoln's  birthplace, 
has  fine  food  traditions.  It  is  the 
home  of  the  burgoos,  cymlings,  ju- 
leps and  salt  rising  bread.  A  bur- 
goo is,  the  native  stew  and  as  old  as 
time.  *The  cymling  is  nothing  other 
than  an  ordinary  scalloped  summer 
squash.  And  those  mint  juleps— 
.certainly  the  early  pioneers  didn't 
popularize  them. 

Burgoo  from  the  blue  grass  coun- 
try supercedes  stew  from  any  other 
locality  because  it  is  always  served 
outdoors  under  the  spreading  oak, 
elm  or  ash  and  it  is  always  preceded 
by  the  famous  juleps.  It  is  ladeled 
out  of  three  gallon  pails  and  served 
with  delicious  salt  rising  bread.  To 
make  a  real  burgoo,  ground  beef,  a 
rooster  or  two,  shelled  lima  beans, 
shelled  green  or  dried  beans,  corn 
freshly  cut  from  the  cob,  ripe  toma- 
toes, hot  pepper,  diced  onions,  rice, 
diced  potatoes,  salt,  stick  cinnamon, 
juice  of  several  lemons,  brown  sug- 
ar, diced  okra,  butter  and  flour  are 
cooked  together  to  make  the  stew 
of  stews. 

Mint  Leaves,  Lady's  Cake 

Candied  mint  leaves  are  another 
Kentucky  favorite.  They  make  nice 
nibbling  at  any  time  and  make  an 
interesting  addition  to  a  salad.  Care- 
fully wash  the  mint  leaves,  dry,  then 
dip  in  unbeaten  egg  white  and  press 
into  powdered  sugar.  Lay  on  a 
board  lightly  dusted  with  sugar  and 
place  in  refrigerator  to  harden.  The 
leaves  are  eaten  like  potato  chips. 

The  lady's  cake  is  truly  tradition- 
al food.  Any  good  wedding  cake 
recipe  will  do,  but  you  must  observe 
the  rules  and  the  bride  must  cut  and 


eat  the  first  piece,  followed  by  the 
bridegroom  and  guests  Tne  cake 
is  "loaded"  with  rings,  dimes,  wish- 
bones, thimbles,  dice,  etc.  If  a  girl 
gets  a  ring  she  will  be  married  soon. 
If  she  slices  a  thimble  she'll  be  an 
old  maid.  Dimes  are  for  wealth  and 
a  wishbone  is  lucky.  A  lucky  man 
will  find  a  dice  in  his  piece  of  cake, 
but  the  bachelor  will  get  a  button. 

Regular  Illinois  Diet 

When  the  Thomas  Lincolns  moved 
to  Illinois,  Chicago  was  a  prairie  vil- 
lage. The  settlers  tilled  the  rich  soil 
and  hunted  game  for  food.  The 
great  metropolis  had  not  become 
the  "hog  butcher  of  the  world." 
Many  of  the  people  who  migrated  to 
Illinois  brought  national  and  re- 
gional recipes  with  them  and  the 
typical  dishes  of  today  reflect  the 
tastes  of  the  pioneers. 

Mushrooms,  puffballs  and  truffles 
became  a  part  of  the  regular  diet 
because   the  Illinois   pastures   were 


dotted  with  all  sorts  of  edibleTungT 
Lack  of  knowledge  and  the  poison 
specter  retarded  their  immediate  ac- 
ceptance. However,  when  the  Ital- 
ian immigrants  came  in  the  early 
part  of  the  twentieth  century  they 
enlightened  the  state  fathers  as  to 
their  goodness  and  the  people 
flocked  to  the  country  to  gather 
mushrooms. 

Like  the  early  pioneers,  the  citi- 
zens of  today  hunt  prairie  chicken, 
grouse  and  quail.  Prairie  chicken 
potpie  is  at  its  best  when  you  eat  it 
on  an  Illinois  farm  just  after  har- 
vest. The  birds  have  fattened  their 
bellies  on  the  fine  grain.  Perhaps 
this  delectable  dish  was  a  favorite 
with  the  Lincolns  also. 


MIL'./ATJm:  JOURNAL 


2- 10-44 


Congressi?nal  Record 
February  A,  1 952 


Young  Abe  Would  Like  It,  Too 


EXTENSION  OF  REMARKS 

OF 

HON.  GEORGE  A.  DONDERO 

OF  MICHIGAN 

IN  THE  HOUSE  OF  REPRESENTATIVES 

Monday,  February  4,  1952 

Mr.  DONDERO.  Mr.  Speaker,  under 
leave  to  extend  my  remarks  in  the  Rec- 
ord, I  include  therein  an  article  which 

appeared   in   the   Washington   Post    on 

Sunday,  January  27,  1952. 
At  this  season  of  the  year,  it  seems 

most  appropriate  that  the  information 

this  article  contains  should  be  included 

in  the  Congressional  Record. 

The  Republicans  of  the  House  and 
Senate  and  the  League  of  Republican 
Women  of  the  District  of  Columbia  are 
holding  their  Lincoln  Day  box  supper  to- 
night. 

No  doubt  Lincoln  would  have  enjoyed 
a  plain  and  substantial  meal  of  this 
kind  : 

Fried  Chicken  and  Layer  Cake; — Young  Abe 

Would  Like  It,  Too 

(By  Lucia  Brown) 

Abe   Lincoln  would   have   liked   that   box 

slipper    they're   serving    in    his   honor   next 

week — certainly  the  young  Lincoln  would. 

As  a  shirt-tall  boy  in  Indiana,  he  thought 
fried  chicken  was  as  fine  a  thing  as  you  could 
eat.  And  later,  courting  Mary  Todd,  he  en- 
Joyed  the  featherlight  cakes  her  sister,  Mrs. 
Edwards,  served. 

Both  the  chicken  and  the  layer  cake  will 
be  in  the  $1  boxes  at  the  Lincoln  Day  cele- 
bration, sponsored  by  Republican  Members 
of  Congress  and  the  District  League  of  Re- 
publican Women  the  night  of  February  4  In 
Georgetown  University  gymnasium.  Besides, 
some  8.000  faithful  members  of  the  Grand 
Old  Party  will  enjoy  potato  chips,  dill  pickle 
wedges,  dinner  rolls,  Jelly,  mints,  coffee,  and 
soft  drinks. 

Of  course  the  older  Lincoln  probably  would 
never  have  eaten  that  much  (his  secretary, 
John  Hay,  described  him  as  one  of  the  most 
abstemious  of  men).  He  would,  however, 
have  approved  the  simplicity  of  a  box  lunch 
on  such  an  occasion,  for  he  never  did  think 
much  of  fancy  food. 

Once,  the  story  goes,  he  visited  the  Hotel 
Astor  in  New  York,  perused  the  French  bill 
of  fare,  then  solemnly  called  for  a  sine  qua 
non  of  beans  and  an  ipsedlxit  of  pork. 

In  the  days  of  his  Presidency,  wrote  Mr. 
Hay,  "the  pleasures  of  the  table  had  few 
attractions  for  him.  His  breakfast  was  an 
egg  and  a  cup  of  coffee;  at  luncheon,  he 
rarely  took  more  than  a  biscuit  and  a  glass 
of  milk,  a  plate  of  fruit  In  Its  season;  at 
dinner,  he  ate  sparingly  of  one  or  two 
courses." 

Some  of  the  most  picturesque  stories  of 
the  man  who  could  make  a  cat  laugh  cen- 
tered about  food,  however.  There's  the 
famous  one  about  gingerbread  that  touched 
young  and  old  in  one  of  his  debates  with 
Douglas. 

"When  we  lived  In  Indiana,"  Lincoln 
said,  "once  In  a  while  my  mother  used  to 
get  some  sorghum  and  ginger  and  make  some 
gingerbread.  It  wasn't  often  and  it  was  our 
biggest  treat.  One  day  I  smelled  ginger- 
bread and  came  into  the  house  to  get  my 
share  while  it  was  still  hot.  My  mother  had 
baked  me  three  gingerbread  men.  I  took 
them  out  under  a  hickory  tree  to  eat  them. 
There  was  a  family  near  us  poorer  than  we 
were,  and  their  boy  came  along  as  I  sat  down. 

"  'Abe,'  he  said,  'Gimme  a  man?' 

"I  gave  him  one.  He  crammed  It  Into  his 
mouth  In  two  bites  and  looked  at  me  while  I 
v/as  biting  the  legs  off  my  first  one. 

"  'Abe,'  he  said,   'Gimme  that  other?' 

"I  wanted  It  myself  but  I  gave  it  to  him. 
As  It  followed  the  first,  I  said  to  him.  'You 
teem  to  like  gingerbread.' 


"  'Abe,'  he  said,  1  don't  suppose  anybody 
on  earth  likes  gingerbread  better'n  I  do — ■ 
and  gets  less'n  I  do.'" 

Young  Abe  himself — they  called  him  "Long 
Shanks"  then — sometimes  had  a  hard  time 
keeping  up  with  his  appetite.  Occasionally 
there  would  be  only  potatoes  on  the  table  in 
the  cabin  of  Tom  Lincoln  on  Little  Pigeon 
Creek.  When  his  father  would  speak  a  bless- 
ing to  the  Lord,  Abe  would  peep  through  his 
lashes  at  the  praties  and  mumble:  "These 
are  mighty  poor   blessings." 

Field  and  stream  yielded  up  many  good 
things,  however,  to  help  the  spindly  boy  grow 
to  be  6  feet  4  inches  tall.  Biographer  Carl 
Sandburg  mentiones  deer,  wild  turkey,  rab- 
bits, fish,  berries,  grapes,  and  persimmons 
brought  back  from  the  woods  by  Abe.  Be- 
sides, he  enjoyed  pork  and  hominy  grits,  fried 
chicken,  and  hot  biscuit  with  honey.  His 
cousin,"  Harriet  Hanks  said  he  could  eat  corn 
cakes  as  fast  as  two  women  could  make 
them. 

There'll  be  no  corn  cakes,  of  course,  In  the 
boxes  being  packed  for  the  Lincoln  rally  by 
a  local  chain  of  drive-In  restaurants.  How- 
ever, in  case  you'd  like  to  make  this  favorite 
Lincoln  dish  for  yourself,  here  Is  a  recipe 
from  a  section  where  cornbread  and  pork  are 
highly  regarded.  It's  that  of  Mrs".  Howard 
Baker,  wife  of  the  Representative  from  Ten- 
nessee's Second  Congressional  District.  Fol- 
lowing it  is  a  recipe  for  burnt  sugar  cake,  the 
kind  Mary  Todd  is  said  to  have  served  young 
lawyer  Lincoln  when  he  came  to  call  in 
Springfield,  111. 

CORN  MEAL  GRIDDLE  CAKES 

One  and  one-fourth  cups  corn  meal;  one- 
half  teaspoon  baking  powder;  2  eggs,  well- 
beaten;  1  cup  sour  milk  or  buttermilk;  1 
teaspoon  melted  butter  or  shortening;  one- 
half  teaspoon  soda;   one-half  teaspoon  salt. 

Combine  eggs  and  milk;  add  soda,  baking 
powder  and  salt.  Gradually  add  the  corn 
meal  and,  last,  the  shortening.  Drop  griddle 
cake  batter  by  spoonful  on  hot  greased  grid- 
dle. Turn  when  brown  and  slightly  puffed. 
Serve  at  once  on  hot  plate  with  butter  and 
maple  sirup.     Serves  six. 

BURNT    SUGAR    CAKE 

Two  cups  sifted  cake  flour;  2  teaspoons 
baking  powder;  one-fourth  teaspoon  baking 
soda;  one-fourth  teaspoon  salt;  one-half  cup 
butter;  1  cup  sugar;  I  egg,  slightly  beaten; 
1  egg  yolk,  slightly  beaten;  1  cup  cold  water; 
1  y2  tablespoons  burnt  sugar  sirup. 

Mix  and  sift  flour,  baking  powder,  baking 
soda,  and  salt.  Cream  butter  and  add  sugar 
gradually.  Add  egg  and  egg  yolk  and  beat 
until  smooth  and  light.  Add  water  alter- 
nately with  sifted  dry  ingredients.  Add 
burnt  sugar  sirup.  Pour  into  three  6-inch 
layer  pans  and  bake  in  moderate  oven  350 
degrees  Fahrenheit  for  30  to  35  minutes. 

To  make  burnt  sugar  sirup,  heat  one- 
fourth  cup  sugar  in  heavy  skillet.  When 
melted,  add  one-fourth  cup  hot  water  and 
stir  until  dlsolved.    Cool. 

BURNT   SUGAR   FROSTING 

Two  egg  whites;  IVicups  sugar;  dash  of 
salt;  one-third  cup  water;  2  teaspoons  dark 
corn  sirup;  2  tablespoons  burnt  sugar  sirup. 

Beat  together  egg  white,  sugar,  salt,  water, 
and  corn  sirup  with  rotary  beater  in  top  part 
of  double  boiler  over  boiling  water  about  7 
minutes,  or  until  frosting  thickens  and 
holds  shape.  Remove  from  boiling  water, 
add  burnt  sugar  sirup,  and  continue  beating 
until  stiff  enough  to  spread.  This  makes 
frosting  for  three  6-tnch  layers.  Decorate 
with  pecans. 


THE  NEWS  Or 

QtOf 


OfflM 


PASSED  VP  GREENS 


Lean-Eating  Lincoln 
Liked  Uniform  Diet 


By  BETTY  A.  DIETZ,  Daily  News  Food  Editor 

TODAY'S  medics,  on  the  rampage  because  they  say  too 
many  wives  over-feed  their  husbands,  might  have  been 
a  little  happier  about  the  diet  that  Abraham  Lincoln  fa- 
vored. 

Modern  homemakers,  say  1he 
physicians,  shorten  their  husband's 
lives  by  letting  them  take  in  too 
many  calories. 

But  this  problem  never  plagued 
Mary  Todd  Lincoln  whose  hus- 
band's birthday  is  being  observed 
throughout    the    country   today. 

*  *       * 
ABRAHAM  LINCOLN',  according 

to  one  biographer,  was  a  veritable 
Jack  Sprat  I.  Dietitians  would  prob- 
ably have  taken  him  to  task  for 
ignoring  the  leafy  green  and  yellow 
vegetables. 

The  famous  president's  breakfast 
usually  consisted  of  one  egg  and 
one  cup  of  coffee.  Even  after  a 
busy  day  ol  meetings  in  the  White 
House,  he  lunched  on  a  biscuit,  a 
glass  of  milk  and  an  apple.  Dinner 
was  a  little  more  varied,  says  Bi- 
ographer Jim  Bishop  in  "The  Day 
Lincoln  Was  Shot."  The  lall, 
gaunl  president  occasionally  had 
some  hot  soup  and  usually  meat 
and  potatoes. 

Dessert,  if  he  had  any,  was 
homemade  apple  pie — nothing  else ! 

*  *       * 
GROCERY  STORES  in  Lincoln's 

day  were  a  far  cry  from  today's 
I  bright,  colorful  supermarkets. 
Foods  were  sold  along  with  wines, 
!  liquor,   hardware   and  yard  goods. 

In  place  of  the  neatly  packaged 
frozen  meats  and  game  in  spotless 
freezers,  fresh  geese  and  rabbits 
hung  from  barrels.  Brown  sugar, 
tea,  spices  and  (lour  were  meas- 
ured out  of  huge  bins  and  barrels. 

Prices,  at  the  time  of  Lincoln's 
assassination  in  1865,  were  con- 
sidered outrageously  high.  Firkin 
or  bulk  butter  was  sold  for  30  cents 
a  pound  and  coffee,  when  the  cook 
could  find  it,  was  21  cents.  Salt 
was  sold  by  the  bushel— at  50  cents. 
Ham  was  unusually  high,  28  cents 


MARY  TODD  LINCOLN 

.  .  .   wife  of  President 

a    pound,    and   turkey   sold   for   30 
cents. 

A  barrel  of  crackers,  priced  at 
$6.50,  was  expected  to  last  out  a 
season.  And  calories— who  ever 
heard  of  calories? 


THE    DAYTON    DAILY    NEWS 


SUNDAY,  FEBRUARY  12,  1956 


Pes   Moir*sF   Trih\ir>fi 


Round  out  a  skimpy  meal  and  at  the  same  time  give  a  nod  to  Mr.  Lincoln's  birthday 
by  serving  a  hearty  dessert  like  this.  It's  gingerbread  topped  with  warm  apple-brown 
sugar  sauce.  A  fluff  of  whipped  cream  fancies  it  for  a  party. 


r.  Lincoln  Was 


A'G 


By  Jean  Tallman 

i  The     Tribune's     Food     Editor) 

In  the  culinary  depart- 
ment Mr.  Lincoln's  birthday 
has  gone  unnoticed  except 
for  an  occasional  Lincoln 
log,  a  slightly  log-shaped 
cake  of  some  sort  covered 
with  .  chocolate  frosting 
vaguely  reminiscent  of  bark. 

Now  we  can  extend  our 
repertory  of  edible  Lin- 
colniana,  for  it  seems  he 
was  extraordinarily  fond  of 
a  food  that's  particularly 
tasty  this  time  of  year  — 
gingerbread. 

A  plain  man  with  tastes 
to  match,  Lincoln  once  said, 
"I  don't  s'pose  anybody  on 
earth  likes  gingerbread  bet- 


ter'n     I     do — and     gets 
less'n  I  do." 

This  was  in  the  days  be- 
fore the  package  mix,  other- 
wise Mrs.  Lincoln  surely 
would  have  catered  m  ore 
closely  to  her  husband's 
food  likes.  For  gingerbread 
mix,  one  of  the  first  of  the 
quick-mixes,  still  is  one  of 
the  best. 

And  here  is  one  of  t  h  e 
best  possible  dress-ups  for 
it,  a  buttery  brown  sugar 
and  apple  topping  particu- 
larly compatible  with  t  h  e 
spicy  goodness  of  ginger- 
bread warm  from  the  oven. 

If  it's  for  company,  or 
even  if  it  isn't,  a  puff  of 
whipped  cream  makes  it 
even  better. 


it      GINGERBREAD   TOPPING 


IV4  c"Ps  brown  sugar 

V(  cup  butter 

>/s  cup  milk 

4  medium  apples,  sliced  very 
thin 

1  tablespoon  cornstarch 

1  tablespoon  cold  water 

Combine  brown  sugar, 
butter  and  milk  in  sauce- 
pan. Stir  over  low  heat  un- 
til sugar  dissolves,  then  add 
apple  slices  and  simmer 
just  until  tender.  Spoon  out 
the  apple  slices  and  arrange 
on  baked  gingerbread. 

Combine  cornstarch  and 
cold  water  and  stir  into 
syrup  in  which  apples  were 
cooked.  Stir  over  low  heat 
until  thickened,  then  pour 
over  apples  and  ginger- 
bread. Serve  with  whipped 
cream  if  you  like. 


KST 


&60&NF 


1809-1959 


FOODS  THAT 
LINCOLN  KNEW 


COMPLIMENTS  OF  INDIANA 


UNIVERSITY  STATE  FAIR  EXHIBIT 


1959 


BUTTER 


Warm  the  cream  to  a  temperature  of  56° 
or  58°  Fahr. ,  and  it  will  churn  in  fifteen 
minutes .    After  the  butter  collects  in  the 
churn,  take  it  out  and  stand  it  for  a  minute 
in  a  very  cold  place.    Do  not  wash  it,  as  in 
this  way  you  rob  it  of  certain  elements  nec- 
essary for  its  preservation.    Work  it  contin- 
uously and  thoroughly  until  all  the  buttermilk 
is  out,  adding  2  even  teaspoonfuls  of  very 
fine  salt  to  each  pound  of  butter,  after  you 
have  worked  it  about  five  minutes .    Make  it 
at  once  into  prints,  and  stand  away  in  a  cool 
place . 


COTTAGE 

CHEESE 

Set  a  gallon  or  more  of  clabbered  milk  on 
the  stove  hearth  or  in  the  oven  after  cooking 
the  meal,  leaving  the  door  open;  turn  it 
around  frequently,  and  cut  the  curd  in  squares 
with  a  knife ,  stirring  gently  now  and  then  till 
about  as  warm  as  the  finger  will  bear,  and 
the  whey  shows  all  around  the  curd;  pour  all 
into  a  coarse  bag,  and  hang  to  drain  in  a  cool 
place  for  three  or  four  hours ,  or  over  night 
if  made  in  the  evening.    When  wanted,  turn 
from  the  bag,  chop  rather  coarse  with  a  knife, 
and  dress  with  salt,  pepper  and  sweet  cream. 
Some  mash  and  rub  thoroughly  with  the  cream; 
others  dress  with  sugar,  cream  and  a  little 
nutmeg,  omitting  the  salt  and  pepper.    Another 
way  is  to  chop  fine,  add  salt  to  taste,  work  in 
a  very  little  cream  or  butter,  and  mould  into 
round  balls . 


SQUASH  PIE 

6  eggs 

2  cups  of  sugar 

1  quart  of  milk 

1  quart  of  stewed  squash 

2  table  spoonfuls  of  cinnamon 
1/2  of  a  nutmeg,  grated. 

Bake  with  only  one  crust. 

This  quantity  will  make  three  or  four  pies , 


OLD  FASHIONED 
CREAM  PIE 

Pour  a  pint  of  cream  upon  one  and  a  half  cup- 
fuls  of  sugar;  let  it  stand  until  the  whites  of  3 
eggs  have  been  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth;  add  this 
to  the  cream,  and  beat  up  thoroughly;  grate  a 
little  nutmeg  over  the  mixture,  and  bake  with- 
out an  upper  crust.    If  a  tablespoon  of  sifted 
flour  is  added  to  it,  as  the  other  custard  pie 
recipes,  it  would  improve  it. 


GOOSEBERRY 

COBBLER 

Take  one  quart  of  flour,  four  tablespoons 
melted  lard,  half  teaspoon  salt,  two  teaspoons 
baking  powder;  mix  as  for  biscuit,  with  either 
sweet  milk  or  water,  roll  thin,  and  line  a  pud- 
ding dish  or  dripping  pan,  nine  by  eighteen 
inches;  mix  three  tablespoons  flour  and  two  of 
sugar  together,  and  sprinkle  over  the  crust; 
then  pour  in  three  pints  gooseberries,  and 
sprinkle  over  them  one  coffee-cup  sugar;  wet 
the  edges  with  a  little  flour  and  water  mixed, 
put  on  upper  crust,  press  the  edges  together, 
make  two  openings  by  cutting  two  incisions  at 
right  angles  an  inch  in  length,  and  bake  in  a 
quick  oven  half  an  hour. 


RAISED  BISCUIT 

One    quart   of  milk  or  water,   three-quarters 
cupful  lard  and  butter  mixed,  three-quarters 
cupful  yeast,  2  tablespoonfuls  white  sugar. 
Make  into  a  thin  sponge  wheat  flour.    The 
shortening  should  be  melted.    In  the  morning 
mix  into  a  soft  dough  with  sufficient  flour,  and 
let  rise  until  almost  noon.    Mix  down.    Make 
into  balls.    Set  closely  in  a  buttered  pan,  but- 
tering between  each  biscuit,  that  they  may  sep- 
arate easily.    Let  rise  half  an  hour  and  bake 
twenty  minutes . 


YEAST 


Wash  and  peel  six  potatoes  the  size  of  a  large 
egg,  cut  in  quarters  and  put  on  the  stove  to  boil 
in  a  quart  of  water;  as  it  boils  away,  fill  up 
from  the  tea-kettle  to  the  quantity.    When  your 
potatoes  are  nearly  done,  put  a  handful  of  hops 
to  steep  in  a  pint  of  hot  water;  take  out  the  po- 
tatoes when  well  done,  put  into  a  crock  and 
mash  fine;  on  these  put  a  pint  of  flour,  and 
scald  this  with  the  hot  potato  water,  and  hop 
water .    Beat  until  perfectly  smooth  and  free 
from  lumps;  into  this  put  a  cupful  of  granu- 
lated or  other  good  white  sugar  and  not  quite 
a  half  cupful  of  salt.    It  should  be  quite  thin; 
if  not  thin  enough  at  this  stage,  add  a  little 
cold  water .    When  cool  enough  stir  into  this  a 
pint  of  good  yeast,  or  two  good  sized  yeast 
cakes  dissolved  in  warm  water;  let  it  stand 
twenty-four  hours,  stirring  very  frequently; 
then  put  it  away  in  a  stone  jug,  and  cork  tight 
and  keep  in  a  cool  place,  but  not  where  it  will 
freeze.    This  recipe  makes  a  pint  over  a  gal- 
lon. 


GRAHAM  BREAD 

Take  a  little  over  a  quart  of  warm  water, 
one-half  cup  brown  sugar  or  molasses,  one- 
fourth  cup  hop  yeast,  and  one  and  one-half 
teaspoons  salt;  thicken  the  water  with  graham 
flour  to  a  thin  batter;  add  sugar,  salt  and 
yeast,  and  stir  in  more  flour  until  quite  stiff. 
In  the  morning  add  a  small  teaspoon  of  soda, 
and  flour  enough  to  make  the  batter  stiff  as  can 
be  stirred  with  a  spoon ;  put  into  pans  and  let 
rise  again;  then  bake  in  even  oven,  not  too 
hot  at  first;  keep  warm  while  rising;    smooth 
over  the  loaves  with  a  spoon  or  knife  dipped 
in  water. 


CANNED  FRUITS 

BRANDIED  PEACHES 

Take    the    large    white    or    yellow   freestone 
peaches.    (They  must  not  be  too  ripe.)    Scald- 
them  with  boiling  water;  cover,  and  let  stand 
until  the  water  becomes  cold.    Repeat  this 
scalding,  then  take  them  out,  lay  them  on  a 
soft  cloth,  and  let  them  remain  until  perfectly 
dry.    Now  put  them  in  stone  jars,  and  cover 
with  brandy.    Tie  paper  o:rer  the  tops  of  the 
jars,  and  let  them  remain  in  this  way  one 
week.    Then  make  a  syrup,  allowing  one  pound 
of  granulated  sugar  and  a  half  pint  of  water  to 
each  pound  of  peaches.    Boil  and  skim  the  syrup, 
then  put  in  the  peaches  and  simmer  until  tender, 
then  take  the  peaches  out,  drain,  and  put  them 
in  glass  jars.    Stand  the  syrup  aside  to  cool. 
When  cold,  mix  equal  quantities  of  this  syrup 
and  the  brandy  in  which  you  had  the  peaches . 
Pour  this  over  the  peaches  and  seal. 


SPICED  CRAB  APPLES 

Peel  and  halve  9  pounds  of  crab  apples.    Add  4 
pounds  of  sugar,   1  pint  of  vinegar,   1  teaspoon- 
ful  of  cloves  (whole  cloves),  3  or  4  sticks  of 
cinnamon  and  mace.    Let  it  boil  one-half  hour, 
or  less  if  they  grow  too  soft. 


PICKLED  PEARS 

Select  small,  sound  ones,  remove  the  blossom 
end,  stick  them  with  a  fork,  allow  to  each 
quart  of  pears  1  pint  of  cider  vinegar  and  1 
cup  of  sugar,  put  in  a  teaspoonful  allspice, 
cinnamon  and  cloves  to  boil  with  the  vinegar; 
then  add  the  pears  and  boil,  and  seal  in  jars. 


QUINCE  HONEY  - 
or   MARMALADE 

(THE  FIRST  MARMALADE) 

Pare,    core  and  quarter  your  fruit,  then  weigh 
it  and  allow  an  equal  amount  of  white  sugar . 
Take  the  parings  and  cores ,  and  put  in  a  pre- 
serving kettle;  cover  them  with  water  and  boil 
for  half  an  hour,  then  strain  through  a  hair 
sieve,  and  put  the  juice  back  into  the  kettle  and 
boil  the  quinces  in  it  a  little  at  a  time  until  they 
are  done;  lift  out  with  a  drainer,  and  lay  on  a 
dish;  if  the  liquid  seems  scarce  add  more  wa- 
ter.   When  all  are  cooked,  throw  into  this 
liqueur  the  sugar,  and  allow  it  to  boil  ten  min- 
utes before  putting  in  the  quinces;  let  them  boil 
until  they  change  color,  say  one  hour  and  a 
quarter,  on  a  slow  fire;  while  they  are  boiling, 
occasionally  slip  a  silver  spoon  under  them  to 
see  that  they  do  not  burn,  but  on  no  account 
stir  them.    Have  2  fresh  lemons  cut  in  thin 
slices,  and  when  the  fruit  is  being  put  in  jars 
lay  a  slice  or  two  in  each .    Quinces  may  be 
steamed  until  tender . 


CURRANT  JELLY 

Wash  and  strip  the  currants  from  the  stems, 
and  put  them  in  a  preserving- kettle;  mash 
them  as  they  get  hot  and  let  them  boil  half  an 
hour;  then  turn  them  into  a  coarse  hair  sieve, 
or  jelly-bag,  and  let  them  drip.    When  through 
dripping,  without  squeezing  any,  measure  and 
pour  into  the  kettle  to  cook.    After  it  has 
boiled  about  ten  minutes  put  in  the  heated  sugar, 
allowing  a  pound  of  sugar  to  a  pint  of  jelly,  and 
the  jelly  will  set  as  soon  as  the  sugar  is  dis- 
solved —  about  three-quarters  of  an  hour . 


CORN  MUFFINS 

1  quart  of  milk 

3  eggs,  well  beaten 

1  teaspoonful  of  salt 

1  tablespoonful  of  melted  lard 

1  pint  of  cornmeal 

1  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder 

Pour  the  boiling  water  over  the  meal  and  stir, 
that  all  may  be  wet  and  scalded.    Add  the 
melted  butter,  salt  and  milk,  then  the  beaten 
eggs .    Put  the  iron  gem-pans  into  the  oven  to 
heat,  putting  into  each  butter;  and  beat  batter 
up  thoroughly ;  then  pour  into  the  hot  mold . 
Bake  carefully  about  twenty  or  twenty -five 
minutes  .  This  matter  when  ready  will  be  very 
thin . 


HOMEMADE 

HOMINY 

Fill  a  large  pot  half  full  of  wood  ashes .    Then 
nearly  fill  with  water ,  and  boil  ten  minutes . 
After  draining  off  the  lye,  throw  out  the  ashes, 
and  put  the  lye  back  into  the  kettle .    Pour  in  four 
quarts  of  shelled  corn  and  boil  till  the  hull  will 
rub  off .    Then  put  all  in  a  tub ,  and  pour  on  a  pail 
of  cold  water.    Take  an  old  broom  and  scrub  the 
corn.    As  the  water  thickens,  pour  off  and 
clean  with  cold  water .    Put  through  four  waters, 
and  then  take  out  in  a  pan  and  rub  between  the 
hands.    Pick  out  the  hulls,  and  put  it  on  to  cook 
in  cold  water.    When  half  boiled,  pour  off,  and 
renew  with  cold  water .    Do  not  salt  till  it  is 
tender,  and  do  not  let  it  burn.    Put  in  jars  and 
eat  with  milk 


HASTY  PUDDING 

or  MUSH 

2  quarts  of  corn  meal 
2  tablespoonfuls  of  salt 
4  quarts  of  boiling  water 

Take  freshly  ground  and  newly  sifted  corn  meal . 
Wet  it  with  a  quart  of  cold  water.    Add  the  salt 
to  the  hot  water,  and  stir  in  the  meal  gradually, 
keeping  the  mass    hot  and  well  stirred.     Made 
in  this  manner  the  mush  will  be  smooth,  and 
will  cook  evenly.    Boil  not  less  than  two  hours. 
May  be  eaten  hot  with  milk,  or  with  butter, 
syrup,  or  with  cream  and  sugar.    Hasty  pudding 
is  so  called  from  the  custom  of  making  it  just 
as  wanted,  and  bringing  it  to  the  table  with 
about  15  minutes  cooking.    In  this  way  the  meal 
was  not  thoroughly  cooked,  and  therefore  was 
said  to  disagree  with  many  persons.    A  cast 
iron  pot  with  feet  lessens  the  tendency  to  burn, 
and  is  therefore  the  best  vessel  to  use.    It  is 
best  to  double  the  quantity  needed,  and  put  away 
half  to  become  cold  for  frying.    Oiling  the  mush 
on  the  top  prevents  the  formation  of  a  crust  by 
drying. 


SWEET 
PICKLED  BEETS 

Boil  them  in  a  porcelain  kettle  till  they  can  be 
pierced  with  a  silver  fork;  when  cool  cut 
lengthwise  to  size  of  a  medium  cucumber;  boil 
equal  parts  of  vinegar  and  sugar  with  half  a 
tablespoon  ground  cloves  tied  in  a  cloth  to  each 
gallon;  pour  boiling  hot  water  over  the  beets. 


SEALING  WAX 

One  pound  of  resin,  3  ounces  of  beeswax,  one 
and  one-half  ounces  of  tallow.    Use  a  brush  in 
covering  the  corks,  and  as  they  cool,  dip  the 
mouth  into  the  melted  wax.    Place  in  a  basin 
of  cool  water . 


SCRAPPLE 

Take  a  hog's  jowl,  a  part  of  the  liver  and  heart, 
and  the  feet.    Cleanse  thoroughly,  put  on  to 
boil  in  cold  water ,  cook  until  all  the  bones  can 
easily  be  removed.    Then  take  out  in  a  chopping 
bowl  and  chop  fine.    Season  with  sage,  salt  and 
pepper.    Return  it  to  the  liquor  on  the  stove, 
which  you  must  strain .    Then  thicken  with  corn 
meal  and  a  teaspoonful  of  buckwheat  flour  to 
the  consistency  of  mush.    Then  dip  out  in  deep 
dishes,  and  when  cool  slice  and  fry  a  rich 
brown,  as  you  would  mush.    It  is  very  nice  for 
a  cold  morning  breakfast .    If  you  make  more 
than  you  can  use  at  once,  run  hot  lard  over  the 
rest,  and  you  can  keep  it  all  through  the  winter. 


SAUERKRAUT 

Remove  the  outer  leaves  of  cabbage  and  cores, 
and  cut  fine  on  a  slaw-cutter .    Put  down  in  a 
keg  or  large  jar.    Put  a  very  little  sprinkle  of 
salt  between  each  layer,  and  pound  each  layer 
with  a  wooden  masher  or  mallet .    When  your 
vessel  is  full,  place  some  large  cabbage  leaves 
on  top ,  and  a  double  cloth  wrung  out  of  cold 
water.    Then  a  cover,  with  a  very  heavy  weight 
on  it  —  a  large  stone  is  best.    Let  it  set  for  six 
weeks  before  using,  being  careful  to  remove  the 
scum  that  rises  every  day,  by  washing  out  the 
cloth,  the  cover,  and  the  weight,  in  cold  water. 
After  six  weeks,  pour  off  the  liquid  and  fill  over 
it  with  clear,  cold  water.    This  makes  it  very 
nice  and  white . 


VINEGAR 


Fourteen   pounds    of  coarse  brown  sugar,    10 
gallons  of  water,  1  cupful  of  brewer's  yeast. 
Boil  the  sugar  with  three  parts  of  the  water, 
and  skim.    Remove  from  the  fire,  and  pour  in 
the  cold  water.    Strain  into  a  ten-gallon  keg. 
Put  in  some  small  pieces  of  toast  with  the 
yeast.    Stir  every  day  for  a  week.    Then  tack 
gauze  over  the  orifice .    Set  where  the  sun  will 
shine  on  it,  and  let  remain  six  months,  by 
which  time,  if  made  in  the  spring,  it  will  be 
vinegar . 

Always  save  all  the  currants,  skimmings, 
pieces,  etc.,  left  after  making  jelly,  place  in 
stone  jar,  cover  with  soft  water  previously 
boiled  to  purify  it,  let  stand  several  days;  in 
the  meantime,  take  your  apple  peelings,  with- 
out the  cores,  and  put  on  in  porcelain  kettle, 
cover  with  water,  boil  twenty  minutes,  drain 
into  a  large  stone  jar;  drain  currants  also 
into  this  jar,  add  all  the  rinsings  from  your 
molasses  jugs,  all  dribs  of  syrups,  etc. , 
and  when  jar  is  full,  drain  off  all  this  when 
clear  into  vinegar  keg  (where,  of  course,  you 
have  some  good  cider  vinegar  to  start  with) . 
If  not  sweet  enough,  add  brown  sugar  to  mo- 
lasses, cover  the  bung  hold  with  a  piece  of 
coarse  netting,  and  set  in  the  sun  or  by  the 
kitchen  stove.    Give  it  plenty  of  air.    The  cask 
or  barrel  should  be  of  oak.    Never  use  alum 
or  cream  of  tartar,  as  some  advise,  and 
never  let  your  vinegar  freeze.    Paint  your 
barrel  or  cask  if  you  would  have  it  durable. 


PICCALILLI 

2  dozen  large  cucumbers,  chopped 
2  quarts  small  onions,  whole 
1  peck  green  tomatoes,  chopped 
1  dozen  green  peppers,  chopped 
1  head  cabbage,  chopped 

Sprinkle  one  pint  of  salt  over  this ,  and  let  it 
stand  over  night,  then  squeeze  out  very  dry. 
Put  in  a  kettle. 

1  gallon  of  vinegar 

1  pint  of  brown  sugar 

1/4  pound  box  of  Coleman's  mustard 

1/2  ounce  of  turmeric  powder 

1/2  ounce  of  cinnamon 

1  tablespoon  each  of  allspice,    mace, 
celery  seed,  and  a  little  horse- 
radish 

Cook  the  mess  slowly  two  hours,  then  add  two 
hundred  pickles,  just  as  it  is  to  come  off  the 
stove.  Add  the  mustard  last,  as  this  thickens 
it  and  is  apt  to  burn. 


GRAPE  BUTTER 

Take  sweet  apples  and  grapes,  half  and  half . 
Cook  the  apples  tender,  and  rub  through  a 
colander.    Prepare  the  grapes  as  above,  us- 
ing 1  pound  of  sugar  to  2  pounds  of  mixed 
fruit.    The  skins  may  be  boiled  in  a  bag  and 
taken  out  later,  or  they  may  be  stirred  into 
the  butter .    The  above  is  the  better  way . 
Leave  plain  or  spiced  to  suit  taste . 


DRIED  FRUITS 

-  Sun  Dried 

To  dry  fruits  nicely,  spread  in  shallow  boxes 
and  cover  with  mosquito  netting  to  prevent 
flies  from  reaching  them .    Dried  peaches 
are  better  when  halved  and  the  cavities  sprin- 
kled with  sugar.    The  fruit  must  be  good, 
however ,  as  poor  fruit  cannot  be  redeemed 
by  any  process. 

The  secret  of  keeping  dried  fruit  is  to  ex- 
clude the  light,  and  to  keep  in  a  dry  and  cool 
place . 


MINCEMEAT 

Four  pounds  of  lean  boiled  beef,  chopped  fine, 
twice  as  much  of  chopped  green  tart  apples, 
1  pound  of  chopped  suet,  3 pounds  of  raisins, 
seeded,  2  pounds  of  currants  picked  over, 
washed  and  dried,  half  a  pound  of  citron,  cut 
up  fine ,   1  pound  of  brown  sugar ,   1  quart  of 
cooking  molasses,  2  quarts  of  sweet  cider, 
1  pint  of  boiled  cider,  1  tablespoonful  of  salt, 
1  tablespoonful  of  pepper,   1  tablespoonful  of 
mace,   1  tablespoonful  of  allspice,  and  4 
tablespoonfuls  of  cinnamon,  2  grated  nutmegs, 
1  tablespoonful  of  cloves;  mix  thoroughly  and 
warm  it  on  the  range,  until  heated  through. 
Remove  from  the  fire  and  when  nearly  cool, 
stir  in  a  pint  of  good  brandy,  and  1  pint  of  Ma- 
deira wine.    Put  into  a  crock,  cover  it  tightly, 
and  set  in  a  cool  place  where  it  will  not  freeze, 
but  keep  perfectly  cold;  will  keep  good  all 
winter. 


LADY  FINGERS 

Four  tablespoons  sugar  mixed  with  yolks  of 
four  eggs,  4  tablespoons  flour,  and  1  tea- 
spoon lemon  extract.    Beat  whites  to  a  stiff 
froth  and  stir  in .    Squeeze  through  a  funnel 
of  writing  paper  on  to  a  greased  paper  in  a 
dripping  pan,  and  bake  in  small  cakes  in  a 
moderate  oven.    These  are  good  for  Char- 
lotte Russe. 


SOFT  CREAM 

COOKIES 

Three-fourths  cup  sour  cream,  1  cup  granu- 
lated sugar,  1  egg,  one-fourth  teaspoon  soda, 
a  pinch  of  salt.    Mix  very  stiff  with  flour. 


FRUIT  COOKIES 

One  cupful  and  a  half  of  sugar,   1  cupful  of 
butter,  one-half  cup  of  sweet  milk,  1  egg, 
2  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  grated  nutmeg,  3  tablespoonfuls  of 
English  currants  or  chopped  raisins .    Mix 
soft,  and  roll  out,  using  just  enough  flour  to 
stiffen  sufficiently.    Cut  out  with  a  large  cut- 
ter, wet  the   tops  with  milk,    and  sprinkle 
sugar  over  them.    Bake  on  buttered  tins  in  a 
quick  oven.    Fruit  can  be  left  out  if  preferred. 


CANDIES 

HOREHOUND  CANDY 

Boil  2  ounces  of  dried  horehound  in  a  pint  and 
a  half  of  water  for  about  half  an  hour;  strain 
and  add  three  and  a  half  pounds  of  brown 
sugar.    Boil  over  a  hot  fire  until  it  is  suffi- 
ciently hard,  pour  out  in  flat,  well-greased 
tin  trays ,  and  mark  into  sticks  or  small 
squares  with  a  knife,  as  soon  as  it  is  cool 
enough  to  retain  its  shape . 


BUTTER-SCOTCH  CANDY 

Two  cupfuls  of  sugar,    2  cupfuls  of  dark  mo- 
lasses, 1  cupful  of  cold  butter,  grated  rind  of 
a  half  a  lemon .    Boil  over  a  slow  fire  until  it 
hardens  when  dropped  in  cold  water .    Pour 
thinly  into  tins  well-buttered,  and  mark  into 
little  inch  squares ,  before  it  cools . 


CREAM  DATES 

Remove  the  stones  from  the  large  dates,  make 
the  cream  as  directed  in  the  cream  recipe . 
Roll  a  tiny  bit  into  a  long  roll,  put  it  in  the 
date  where  you  remove  the  stone,  press  the 
two  halves  together,  so  that  the  white  cream 
will  show  between .    Roll  the  whole  in  granu- 
lated sugar,  and  stand  away  to  harden. 


MAPLE  SUGAR  CANDY 

Boil  one  cupful  of  maple  sugar  together  with 
one-half  cup  of  water  and  a  small  bit  of  but- 
ter .    Boil  this  for  about  ten  minutes .    When 
done,  add  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla,  pour 
into  buttered  tins.    It  must  not  be  stirred. 


STICK  CANDY 

One  pound  of  granulated  sugar,  1  cupful  of 
water ,  a  quarter  of  a  cupful  of  vinegar ,  or 
half  a  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar ,  1  small 
tablespoonful  of  glycerine .    Flavor  with  va- 
nilla, rose  or  lemon.    Boil  all  except  the 
flavoring,  without  stirring,  twenty  minutes  or 
half  an  hour,  or  until  crisp  when  dropped  in 
water .    Just  before  pouring  upon  greased 
platters  to  cool ,  add  half  a  teaspoonful  of 
soda .    After  pouring  upon  platters  to  cool , 
pour  two  teaspoons  of  flavoring  over  the  top . 
When  partly  cool ,  pull  it  until  very  white . 
Draw  it  into  sticks  the  size  you  wish,  and 
cut  off  with  shears  into  sticks  or  kiss-shaped 
drops.    It  may  be  colored  if  desired. 


MANGOES 


Let   the    mangoes    lie    in    salt   water    strong 
enough  to  bear  an  egg,  for  two  weeks;  then 
soak  them  in  pure  water  for  two  days ,  chang- 
ing the  water  two  or  three  times;  then  remove 
the  seeds  and  put  the  mangoes  in  a  kettle,  first 
a  layer  of  grape  leaves,  then  mangoes,  and  so 
on  until  they  are  all  in,  covering  the  top  with 
leaves;  add  a  lump  of  alum  the  size  of  a  hick- 
ory nut;  pour  vinegar  over  them,  and  boil  ten 
or  fifteen  minutes;  remove  the  leaves  and  let 
the  pickles  stand  in  this  vinegar  for  a  week; 
then  stuff  them  with  the  following  mixture ; 
One  pound  of  ginger  soaked  in  brine  for  a  day 
or  two,  and  cut  in  slices,  1  ounce  of  black 
pepper,  1  of  mace,  1  of  allspice,  1  of  ter- 
meric,  half  a  pound  of  garlic,  soaked  for  a 
day  or  two  in  brine,  and  then  dried;   1  pint 
grated  horseradish,  1  of  black  mustard  seed 
and  1  of  white  mustard  seed;  bruise  all  the 
spices  and  mix  with  a  teacup  of  pure  olive  oil; 
to  each  mangoe  add  1  teaspoonful  of  brown 
sugar;  cut  1  solid  head  of  cabbage  fine;  add  1 
pint  of  small  onions,  a  few  small  cucumbers 
and  green  tomatoes;  lay  them  in  brine  a  day 
and  a  night,  then  drain  and  add  the  imperfect 
mangoes  chopped  fine  and  the  spices;  mix 
thoroughly,  stuff  the  mangoes  and  tie  them; 
put  them  in  a  stone  jar  and  pour  over  them  the 
best  cider  vinegar;  set  in  bright,  dry  place 
till  canned .    In  a  month  add  3  pounds  of  brown 
sugar,  or  to  taste.    This  is  for  four  dozen 
mangoes . 


STRAWBERRY 

PRESERVES 

Put  2  pounds  of  sugar  in  a  bright  tin  pan  over 
a  kettle  of  boiling  water;  and  pour  into  it  half 
a  pint  of  boiling  water;  when  the  sugar  is  dis- 
solved and  hot  put  in  fruit,  and  then  place  the 
pan  directly  on  the  stove  or  range;  let  boil  ten 
minutes  or  longer  if  the  fruit  is  not  clear, 
gently  (or  the  berries  will  be  broken)  take  up 
with  a  small  strainer,  and  keep  hot  while  the 
syrup  is  boiled  down  until  thick  and  rich; 
drain  off  the  thin  syrup  from  the  cans,  and 
pour  the  rich  syrup  over  the  berries  to  fill, 
and  screw  down  the  tops  immediately.    The 
thin  syrup  poured  off  may  be  brought  to  boil- 
ing, and,  then  bottled  and  sealed,  be  used  for 
sauces  and  drinks,  or  made  into  jelly. 


#jf 


tj&t  $ineo/vi  6  £TaS/e 


Perhaps  the  greatest  American  of  the  Civil  War  period  was 
Abraham  Lincoln,  but  how  did  he  appear  to  the  people  who  ate 
with  him  and  cooked  for  him?  Well,  it  was  easy  to  prepare  meals 
for  Lincoln,  because  he  never  complained  of  the  fare.  But,  on  the 
other  hand,  he  never  praised  a  dish  either. 

Mrs.  Thomas  Lincoln,  Abraham's  stepmother,  declared  that 
"Abe  was  a  moderate  eater  ...  he  sat  down  and  ate  what  was 
set  before  him,  making  no  complaint;  he  seemed  careless  about 
this."  Isaac  N.  Arnold,  a  close  friend  in  Illinois,  later  learned  from 
Lincoln  that  in  childhood  he  had  eaten  very  plain  food.  On  the 
frontier  he  was  fed  cakes  made  from  coarse  corn  meal  and  called 
"corn  dodgers."  Wild  game  supplied  the  necessary  protein  in  his 
diet. 

In  1831  Lincoln  moved  to  New  Salem,  a  small  community  on 
the  Sangamon  River.  During  part  of  his  stay  at  this  village  he 
boarded  at  the  Rutledge  Tavern  where  the  beautiful  Ann  Rutledge 
worked  as  a  waitress.  The  meals  were  plain,  and  Lincoln  was 
served  the  usual  fare:  cornbread,  bacon  and  eggs.  At  times  the 
Railsplitter  took  his  meals  with  other  families  in  the  neighborhood. 
Mrs.  Jack  Armstrong  said  that  he  ate  mush,  cornbread  and  milk  in 
her  home,  and  if  Lincoln  had  a  delicacy  which  he  enjoyed  at  this 
time,  it  was  honey.  N.  W.  Brandon  of  Petersburg  recalled  that  he 
"was  very  fond"  of  this  sweet. 

As  soon  as  Lincoln  was  admitted  to  the  bar,  he  went  to 
Springfield  where  he  became  the  partner  of  John  Todd  Stuart. 
But  much  of  his  law  practice  was  on  the  Eighth  Judicial  Circuit. 
For  many  weeks  each  year  he  rode  hundreds  of  miles  and  lived 
where  the  food  was  poor  and  the  accommodations  were  primitive. 
Leonard  Swett,  a  fellow  lawyer  on  these  trips,  observed  that 
Lincoln  was  very  temperate  in  his  eating  habits.  "He  ate,"  said 
Swett,  "simply  because  it  was  necessary  and  not  for  enjoyment. 
Indeed,  it  might  almost  be  doubted  whether  eating  furnished  him 
i    enjoyment,  or  that  he  knew  the  difference  between  what  was  good 

xi 


xii  A  Civil  War  Cook  Book 

and  what  was  not.  ...  I  never,  in  the  ten  years  of  circuit  life  I 
knew  him,  heard  him  complain  of  a  hard  bed  or  a  bad  meal  of 
victuals.  We  would  go  out,  for  instance,  at  Mrs.  Scott's,  at  Danville,  , 
and  be  sumptuously  entertained  and  nobody  would  enjoy  it  more 
than  he.  but  I  never  heard  him  say  the  food  we  got  was  any  better 
than  that  which  was  furnished  at  the  tavern." 

W'illiam  H.  Herndon,  Lincoln's  last  law  partner,  remembered 
that  it  made  no  difference  to  Lincoln  what  he  ate.  At  meal  time  he 
took  his  place  at  the  table  involuntarily,  said  nothing,  neither 
abused  the  food  nor  praised  it,  and  asked  no  questions.  No  com- 
plaints ever  passed  his  lips  while  on  the  circuit.  Herndon  also 
stated  that  Lincoln  "had  a  good  appetite  and  good  digestion,  ate 
mechanically,  never  asking  why  such  a  thing  was  not  on  the  table 
nor  why  it  was  on  it,  if  so;  he  filled  up  and  that  is  all." 

If  he  had  a  favorite  light  repast,  it  was  "apples  &  fruits 
generally,"  but  sometimes  he  would  come  down  to  the  Lincoln  & 
Herndon  law  office  in  the  morning  and  breakfast  upon  cheese, 
bologna  sausage  and  crackers. 

C.  C.  Brown,  a  young  law  student  in  Springfield,  was  examined 
for  admission  to  the  bar  by  Lincoln  and  Herndon.  After  a  silly  and 
routine  question,  Brown  "passed  the  bar"  and  took  his  examiners  to 
Charles  Chatterton's  Restaurant  on  the  west  side  of  the  public 
square  for  a  treat.  It  is  not  known  who  picked  the  menu,  but 
Lincoln  partook  of  it:  fried  oysters  and  pickled  pig's  feet!  Evidently 
it  was  a  happy  occasion  for  Lincoln,  because  Brown  recalled  that 
he  ate  very  heartily  and  told  stories,  some  of  which  "would  scarcely 
do  for  a  Sunday  paper." 

On  November  4,  1842,  Lincoln  married  the  lovely  and  talented 
Mary  Todd  of  Lexington,  Kentucky.  She  had  been  raised  in  the 
beautiful  Blue  Grass  region  where  gracious  living  and  savory  cook- 
ing were  famous.  It  is  said  that  Mary  was  a  good  cook;  her  parties 
were  known  for  their  variety  of  fine  foods.  Isaac  N.  Arnold  wrote 
that  "her  table  was  famed  for  the  excellence  of  its  rare  Kentucky 
dishes,  and  in  season  was  loaded  with  venison,  wild  turkeys, 
prairie  chicken,  quails,  and  other  game,  which  in  those  early  days 
was  abundant."  However,  Billy  Herndon  disagreed  with  Arnold.  He 
stoutly  declared,  after  reading  Arnold's  book,  that  Mrs.  Lincoln 
"kept  or  set  a  poor  table"  for  the  daily  meals  and  only  splurged 
when  guests  were  present.  If  this  statement  is  true,  Mary  was 
either  saving  money  for  other  household  expenses  or  had  learned 
the  folly  of  spending  long  hours  in  the  kitchen  when  her  husband 
never  praised  her  Kentucky  recipes. 

It  must  have  been   exasperating   to  cook   for  Lincoln.   His    ; 


At  Lincoln's  Table  xiii 

sister-in-law,  Mrs.  Ninian  Wirt  Edwards,  recounted  that  he  "ate 
mechanically.  I  have  seen  him  sit  down  at  the  table  and  never 
unless  recalled  to  his  senses  would  he  think  of  food."  But  at  times 
Lincoln  did  express  a  preference:  he  loved  a  "good  hot  cup  of 
coffee."  And  he  liked  meat  as  well  as  vegetables.  Although  the  tall 
Sangamon  lawyer  was  absent-minded  while  eating,  he  certainly 
kept  his  thoughts  on  food  when  he  himself  did  the  marketing.  His 
neighbors  often  saw  him  buying  beefsteak  downtown.  For  ten  cents 
Lincoln  could  purchase  enough  steak  for  a  meal,  and  he  carried  the 
brown-paper  package  home  himself  instead  of  having  it  delivered. 
These  episodes  prove  that  Lincoln  enjoyed  the  usual  choice  of  a 
Midwestern  man — beefsteak. 

At  times,  perhaps,  Lincoln  did  pay  attention  to  fancy  dishes, 
but  he  rarely  commented  upon  them.  Once,  when  speaking  at 
Springfield,  Illinois,  on  July  17,  1858,  he  gave  a  hint  that  he  had 
at  one  time  tasted  some  excellent  French  cuisine.  While  making 
fun  of  Douglas's  pet  theory  of  Popular  Sovereignty,  Lincoln  de- 
clared that  "it  is  to  be  dished  up  in  as  many  varieties  as  a  French 
cook  can  produce  soups  from  potatoes."  Perhaps  the  former  Rail- 
splitter  recalled  a  meal  which  he  had  eaten  in  a  Chicago  hotel. 

When  Lincoln  was  elected  President  of  the  United  States,  he 
journeyed  to  Washington,  D.  C.  to  assume  the  most  difficult  task  of 
his  life.  With  weighty  problems  of  state  on  his  mind,  the  tired 
President  neglected  his  meals  even  more  than  he  had  in  Spring- 
field. Dr.  Henry  Whitney  Bellows  of  the  Sanitary  Commission  re- 
marked to  Lincoln  one  day:  "Mr.  President,  I  am  here  at  almost 
every  hour  of  the  day  or  night,  and  I  never  saw  you  at  the  table;  do 
you  ever  eat?"  "I  try  to,"  replied  Lincoln.  "I  manage  to  browse 
about  pretty  much  as  I  can  get  it."  One  day,  while  F.  B.  Carpenter 
was  living  with  the  Lincolns  at  the  White  House  and  painting  "The 
First  Reading  of  the  Emancipation  Proclamation  before  the  Cabi- 
net," the  clock  struck  12  noon.  Lincoln  listened  to  the  chiming  and 
exclaimed,  "I  believe,  by  the  by,  that  I  have  not  yet  had  my  break- 
fast,— this  business  has  been  so  absorbing  that  it  has  crowded 
everything  else  out  of  my  mind." 

Noah  Brooks,  an  old  friend  from  Illinois  and  a  correspondent 
for  the  Sacramento  (California)  Daily  Union,  testified  that  Lin- 
coln was  "never  very  attentive  to  the  demands  or  the  attractions  of 
the  table."  "When  Mrs.  Lincoln,  whom  he  always  addressed  by  the 
old-fashioned  title  of  'Mother,'  was  absent  from  the  home,"  Brooks 
revealed,  "the  President  would  appear  to  forget  that  food  and 
drink  were  needful  for  his  existence,  unless  he  were  persistently 
followed  up  by  some  of  the  servants,  or  were  finally  reminded  of 


xiv  A  Civil  War  Cook  Book 

his  needs  by  the  actual  pangs  of  hunger.  On  one  such  occasion,  I 
remember,  he  asked  me  to  come  in  and  take  breakfast  with  him,  as 
he  had  some  questions  to  ask.  He  was  evidently  eating  without 
noting  what  he  ate;  and  when  I  remarked  that  he  was  different 
from  most  western  men  in  his  preference  for  milk  at  breakfast,  he 
said,  eyeing  his  glass  of  milk  with  surprise,  as  if  he  had  not  before 
noticed  what  he  was  drinking,  'Well,  I  do  prefer  coffee  in  the 
morning,  but  thev  don't  seem  to  have  sent  me  in  any.' " 

Yes,  early  in  the  morning  Lincoln  wanted  a  cup  of  coffee. 
After  this  steaming  aromatic  beverage  the  President  might  not  find 
time  for  breakfast  until  9  or  10  a.m.  John  Hay,  one  of  Lincoln's  pri- 
vate secretaries,  often  ate  with  the  President.  He  remarked  that  Lin- 
coln ate  a  frugal  breakfast,  "an  egg,  a  piece  of  toast,  coffee,  etc." 
Sometimes  the  two  men  consumed  a  single  egg  apiece  and  plodded 
off  to  work.  At  noon  Lincoln  "took  a  little  lunch — a  biscuit,  a  glass 
of  milk  in  winter,  some  fruit  or  grapes  in  summer."  He  "ate  less 
than  anyone  I  know,"  declared  Hay.  Carpenter,  too,  often  wit- 
nessed Lincoln  eating  a  "solitary  lunch"  when  his  family  was 
gone.  "It  was  often  a  matter  of  surprise  to  me,"  wrote  Carpenter, 
"how  the  President  sustained  life;  for  it  seemed,  some  weeks,  as 
though  he  neither  ate  nor  slept."  When  the  hour  for  lunch  arrived, 
a  servant  generally  carried  "a  simple  meal  upon  a  tray"  to  Lin- 
coln's second-floor  office.  Sometimes  the  Chief  Executive  would  not 
examine  the  contents  of  the  tray  for  several  hours;  then  he  would 
sample  them  in  a  "most  unceremonious  manner." 

If  the  Commander-in-Chief  ever  had  time  for  a  full  and 
pleasant  meal,  it  was  generally  in  the  evening  when  dinner  was 
served  at  the  White  House.  At  this  hour,  guests  were  often  present, 
and  Lincoln  made  a  formal  appearance  to  welcome  them.  On  such 
occasions  Mrs.  Lincoln  either  had  the  food  prepared  in  the  White 
House  kitchen  or  had  it  served  by  a  caterer.  If  Lincoln  were 
hungry,  he  certainly  could  eat  his  fill  of  excellent  food  at  this 
time. 

There  has  been  much  debate  whether  or  not  Lincoln  ever 
drank  liquor.  Billy  Herndon  admitted  that  he  "did  drink  when  he 
thought  that  it  would  do  him  good."  Leonard  Swett  remembered 
that  Lincoln  did  drink  wine  upon  occasion  and  that  in  the  White 
House  "he  used  to  drink  a  glass  of  champagne  with  his  dinner,  but 
I  believe  that  was  prescribed  for  him."  Perhaps  his  physicians 
decided  that  the  tired  President  sometimes  needed  a  stimulant. 
Anyhow,  William  Howard  Russell  of  the  London  (England)  Times 
ate  with  the  Lincolns  on  March  28,  1861,  and  noted  in  his  diary 
that  wine  was  served  at  the  dinner.  But  certainly  it  was  a  rare 


At  Lincoln's  Table  xv 

occasion  when  Lincoln  tasted  alcohol.  He  had  once  joined  a  tem- 
perance society,  although  his  account  at  the  Corneau  &  Diller 
Drug  Store  in  Springfield  shows  a  few  purchases  of  brandy  by  the 
bottle.  Yet  there  is  no  positive  proof  that  it  was  Lincoln  who 
consumed  this  brandy.  It  is  safe  to  say  that  Lincoln  was  temperate 
in  his  drinking.  And  the  word  temperance  means  "moderation  or 
self-restraint  in  action,  statement,  etc." 

Lincoln  Memorial  University  Wayne  C.  Temple,  Ph.D. 

Harrogate,  Tennessee  Director 

May  5,  1961  Department  of  Lincolniana 


Otc<     /£,   /? 


/  3  c^Lu^ 


Chicago  ^aily  Tribune 
February  10,   19o2 


EAT  A  FAVORITE 

LINCOLN  MEAL: 

FRIED  OYSTERS 

Part  of  Observance 
at  McCormick  PI. 

BY  GEORGE  SCHREIBER 

The  birthday  Feb.  12  of  Abra- 
ham  Lincoln,    the    16th    Presi- 
dent,  will   be   observed,   start- 1 
ing  Monday,  In  the  McCormick 
Place  art  gallery  with  a  spe- , 
cial   painting    display,    and   in  j 
the  three  dining  rooms  of  the  '■ 
Presidents'  Walk  with  the  serv- 
ing   of    one    of    his    favorite  , 
menus. 

In    the    art    gallery    will    be  i 
hung  12  paintings  of  scenes  in 
the  original  community  of  New  | 
Salem,  near  Springfield,  where  j 
Lincoln  once  clerked  in  a  gro- 
cery   and    general    store    and 
later  served  as  postmaster. 

Feature  Lincoln  Menu 

The  paintings  are  the  work  of 
Aaron  Francis  Phillips  and  are 
believed  to  date  to  the  early 
1860s.  Experts  say  they  were 


painted   after   the   village   had 
been  deserted. 

The  pictures  were  loaned  to  , 
the   exposition    center    gallery  j 
by     Freedom     Hall     museum,  ■ 
1235  N.  Harlem  av.,  Oak  Park,  j 
E.  Robert  Hunter,  McCormick 
Place  art  curator,  said  the  ex- 
hibit  and  five  cases  of  Lincoln 
memorabilia,  will  be  shown  in 
addition    to    an    exhibit    of   47 
examples   of  the   graphic   arts 
of    Bernard    Reder,    American 
sculptor. 

In  the  Presidents'  Walk,  Rob- 
ert Jones,  McCormick  Place 
manager  of  food  services,  has 
arranged  a  typical  menu  fa- 
vored by  Lincoln  when  he  was 
in  Springfield  and  later  in  the 
White  House. 

"A  Temperate  Eater" 

The  menu  includes  green  tur- 
tle soup,  fried  oysters,  corn 
bread  —  called  corn  dodgers 
in  Lincoln's  era  —  with  honey 
butter,  and  green  apple  pie 
covered  with  rum  sauce.  The 
rum  sauce  is  made  with  heavy 
New  England  rum,  egg  white, 
and  sugar.  Lincoln,  Jones 
found,  didn't  like  vegetables 
much. 

"The  President  was   a   tem- 


perate eater,"  Jones  said. 
"The  heavy  meal  he  favored 
was  served  only  on  state  oc- 
casions, or  when  there  was 
something  in  the  family  to 
celebrate.  While  in  Springfield 
he  had  oysters  shipped  to  him 
from  St.  Louis." 

Jones,  who  has  researched 
the  eating  habits  of  all  the 
Presidents,  said  that  Washing- 
ton was  known  as  a  man  who 
enjoyed  his  meals.  In  the  first 
President's  time,  a  typical 
White  House  dinner  would  in- 
clude cheese,  nuts,  wild  turkey, 
venison,  and  mutton  or  lamb. 
Contrary  to  fables,  Jones  said, 


the  first  President  was  not  a 
lover  of  cherry  pie. 

"One  thing  Washington  In- 
sisted on  was  punctuality  '  at 
mealtimes,"  Jones  explained. 
White  House  dinners  and 
those  at  Mount  Vernon  were 
served  at  the  appointed  hour. 
When  that  hour  came,  the 
President  sat  down  to  the  ta- 
ble. Late  guests  were  ad- 
monished." 


Boston  Vr;i 


.'ii.:  i 


{:■ 


L 


n 


Pie  A 


Favorite 


Lincoln's  birthday  anniversary  tomorrow  puts  us  in  mind  of  an  endear- 
ing bit  of  "Lincolnia."  Did  you  know  that  Abraham  Lincoln  had  a  sweet  tooth. 

The  fact  is  by-passed  in  serious  writings  about  him  but  does  pop  up  in 
lesser  more  intimate  accounts  about  him  in  his  day. 


This  lanky,  raw-boned  somber- 
faced  president  had  a  small 
boy's  fondness  for  desserts  and 
the  order-books  of  a  Washing- 
ton, D.  C.  baker  records  that 
President  Lincoln  was  one  of 
their  steadiest  customers.  He 
was  especially  fond  of  rich 
pecan  pie. 

We  believe  he'd  approve  of 
your  having  large  wedges  of 
today's  Butter-Pecan  Pie  driz- 
zled generously  with  chocolate, 
to  celebrate  his  birthday  and 
salute  a  tradition  of  his  love 
of  sweets. 

Further  Lincoln  legend  had 
him  delighted  with  a  vanilla 
and  almond  flavored  cake  that 
he  had  in  Council  Bluffs,  Iowa, 
where  he  was  staying  with  a 
Gen.  Dodge  during  the  Civil 
War. 

As  a  candidate,  and  to  many 
politicians,  Lincoln  was  always 
known  as  the  Rail  Splitter,  for 
his  ruggedness  and  because  he 
spent  much  time  in  Illinois  split- 
ting fence  rails  in  the  1830's. 

Rugged  men  have  always  had 
an  appetite  for  meat  sausage 
or  frankfurters  and  sauerkraut. 

So,  as  you  and  your  family 
discuss  the  stories  and  times 
of  Abraham  Lincoln  in  informal 
dinner-table  fashion,  enjoy  a 
winter  casserole  of  sauerkraut 
and  apples  sweetened  with 
brown  sugar  topped  with  rail- 
splitter's  posts  of  frankfurters 
nicely  browned. 


And  end  your  meal  with  the 
pecan  pie  or  the  vanilla  cake 
in  remembrance  of  that  Lin- 
coln "sweet  tooth." 

RAIL   SPLITTER'S 
KRAUT  DINNER 

2  tablespoons    butter    or 

margarine 
1  medium-sized  apple,  cored 

and  sliced 
H  teaspoon  each  celery  seed 

and  dry  mustard 

1  can    (1    pound   11    ounces) 
sauerkraut,  drained  dry 

2  or  3  tablespoons  brown 
sugar 

1 4  cup  melted  butter  or  mar- 
garine 
1  pound  frankfurters,  cut  in 
half  lengthwise 

Melt  the  2  tablespoons  of  but- 
ter and  add  onion  and  apple. 
Saute  until  tender.  Add  celery 
seed,  mustard,  brown  sugar  and 
drained  kraut.  Mix  it  all  lightly 
and  turn  onto  a  lightly  greased 
oven-proof  serving  platter. 

Combine  the  U  cup  butter  or 
margarine  and  additional  dry 
mustard  (about  U  to  %  tea- 
spoon) and  add  the  split  frank- 
furters; cook  over  low  heat  for 
5  minutes  or  until  "split  rails" 
are  lightly  browned  all  over. 

Top  the  kraut  mixture  with 
them  and  bake  at  375  degrees 
40  minutes.  Serves  4. 


BUTTER  PECAN  PIE 

1  package  lady  fingers 
i,  cup  butter  or  margarine. 
1  cup  coarsely  choppe.il  pe- 
cans 
i/i  teaspoon  salt 
Yi  cup  firmly  packed  brown 

sugar 
3  eggs-  separated 

1  tall  can  evaporated   milk 

(12j   cups) 
l!i  teaspoons  vanilla 

2  tablespoons   semi  •  sweet 
chocolate  pieces 

3  tablespoons        evaporated 
milk 

To  make  pie  shell,  first  split 
the  lady  fingers  then  cut  off 
one  end  so  the  pieces  are  about 
2U  inches  long.  Stand  these  up 
around  inside  of  9-inch  pie 
plate  tapering  bottoms  to  fit. 
Fit  the  smaller  pieces  over  bot- 
tom of  pie  plate  to  cover. 

Melt  butter  in  medium  sized 
pan,  add  pecans  and  salt  .  .  . 
cook  gently  over  low  heat  2  to 
3  minutes,   stirring  often.   Re- 
move from  heat  and  add  sugar 
and  the  three  egg  yolks.  Finally 
blend  in  can  of  milk. 

Cook  and  stir  until  thick; 
cool  and  stir  in  vanilla.  Beat 
egg  whiter  until  stiff  and  fold 
in.  Pour  into  ladyfinger  shell. 
Freeze  until  filling  begins  to 
firm.  Combine  chocolate  and  3 
tablespoons  milk;  heat  stirring 
constantly.  When  cool,  drizzle 
over  top  of  pie;  cover  and 
freeze  overnight. 


ABRAHAM  LINCOLN'S 
FAVORITE   CAKE 
3  cups  sifted  flour 
3  teaspoons  double-acting 

baking  powder 
94  cup  soft  butter  mixed  with 

1?4  cups  sugar 
2  teaspoons   vanilla   and   H 

teaspoon  almond  extracts 
6  egg  whites,  unbeaten 

1  cup  milk 
i/3  cup  hot  water 

Sift  flour,  baking  powder  and 
1.*  teaspoon  salt  together.  Stir 
butter  and  sugar,  then  blend  in 
flavoring  extracts.  Beat  in  egg 
whites  one  at  a  time  and  add 
sifted  mixture  alternately  with 
milk-  blend  in  hot  water. 

Tetter  into  3  well-greased 

^  floured  9-inch  layer  cak 

c    Rake  at  375  degrees  <pre- 
pans.  Bake  ai  ^ 

sswSrsrft 

olate. 


1 


0~v-v.fi.   i  ']  \a  7 


A  STORY  ABOUT  ABRAHAM  LINCOLN 
In  The  World  Journal  Tribune  of  February  12  1967 
there  is  an  article  headed  "Honest  Abe  Had  a  Sweet 
Tooth,    but  the  story  as  it  is  related  by  die  nameless 

feature  writer  demonstrates  just  the  opposite.  It  is  a 
story  that  Lincoln  related  in  one  of  the  debates  with 
Douglas. 

He  said,  "When  we  lived  in  Indiana,  once  in  a 
while  my  mother  used  to  get  sorghum  and  ginger  and 
make  some  gingerbread.  It  wasn't  often  and  it  was 
our  biggest  treat. 

"One  day  I  smelled  gingerbread  and  came  into  the 
house  to  get  my  share  while  it  was  still  hot.  My 
mother  had  baked  three  gingerbread  men.  I  took 
them  out  under  a  hickory  tree  to  eat  them.  There  was 
a  family  near  us  poorer  than  we  were,  and  their  boy 
came  along  as  I  sat  down.  'Abe,'  he  said,  'gimme  a 
man.'  I  gave  him  one  and  he  crammed  it  into  his 
mouth  in  two  bites,  and  looked  at  me  while  I  was 
biting  the  legs  off  my  first  one. 

"  Abe,'  he  said,  'give  me  that  other'n.'  I  wanted  it 
myself,  but  I  gave  it  to  him  and  as  it  followed  the 
first,  I  said  to  him,  'You  seem  to  like  gingerbread.' 
Abe,'  he  said,  T  don't  spose  anybody  on  earth  likes 
gingerbread  better 'n  I  do  —  and  gets  less'n  I  do.' " 

Evidently  Lincoln  was  not  too  passionately  addicted 
to  the  gingerbread  cakes,  because  he  gave  them  up  so 
easily.  Secondly,  I  am  not  sure  that  any  sugar  was 
used  by  his  mother  in  the  recipe;  the  average  con- 
sumption of  sugar  in  those  days  was  far  less  than  10 
pounds  per  person  per  year.  Today  it  is  about  110 
pounds. 

Lincoln  did  not  have  ice  cream  very  often  nor  was 
he  regularly  exposed  to  shelves  of  Hershey  bars  or 
coconut  Mounds.  There  were  no  refined  foods  avail- 
able, no  white  bleached  flour  breads,  no  synthesized 
T.V.  dinners,  and  such.  Lincoln's  diet  when  he  was 
growing  up  consisted  of  coarse  natural  healthy  foods. 


\  l?„i»Q 


T.^M,    CJ.JMBIE.    Ph.G .,    Vice    President 

OUINCY 


LEO    M.    WACHTEL.    M.D..    Member 

JACKSONVILLE 


EUGENE   G.    PEEK     JR   .    M.D.    President 

OCALA 


WILLIAM    O     SHUMPERT.    D   D  S   .    Member 

FORT     LAUDERDALE 


W      S      HORN.    D  O   .    Member 

PALMETTO 


Jfflonoa  §tat?  Itoaro  of  Uralilf 

WILSON    T.    SOWDER,    M.D..    M.P.H..    STATE    HEALTH    OFFICER 

MALCOLM    J.    FORD.    M.D..    M.P.H..    Deputy    State    Health   Officer 


TELEPHONE 
354-3961 


POST    OFFICE 
BOX    210 


JACKSONVILLE.    32201 


DIVISION  OF  HEALTH   EDUCATION 

G      FLOYD    BAKER.    BSE,     M.P.H. 
DIRECTOR 


February  26,  1968 


Mrs.  Ruth  P.  Higgins 

Lincoln  National  Life  Foundation 

Fort  Wayne,  Indiana 


Dear  Mrs.  Higgins: 


Without  seeming  to  exaggerate  for  the  sake  of  flattery,  I  wi  sh  to  say 
that  I  was  ecstatic  over  the  volume  and  value  of  the  material  you  sent 
to  me  on  Lincoln's  food  habits.  Although  I  fancied  myself  as  knowing 
something  about  the  wonderful  man,  I  had  not  the  slightest  idea  that  so 
much  could  be  obtained  on  such  a  relatively  trivial  issue. 

I  am  preparing  a  book  to  be  titled  "Spears  and  Pruninghooks",  which  will 
present  to  the  reader  sound,  conservative  nutrition  in  the  popular  manner. 
Presently  only  the  quacks  have  used  popular  style;  conventional  nutrition 
is  found  in  the  dusrt  unread  science  books  attracting  only  students. 

Now  I  want  to  ask  you  for  permission  to  use  —  and  of  course  to  quote  and 
give  credit  —  the  material  you  sent  me.  I  would  base  my  remarks  on  mid- 
eighteenth  century  food  habits  around  Mr.  Lincoln. 

I  am  aware  of  course  of  the  fact  that  much  is  reprint  of  other  people's 
works,  and  would  credit  in  the  proper  manner. 

I  believe  the  foundation  could  gain  something  and  lose  nothing  by  granting 
me  the  requested  permission.  I  wish  that  it  could  be  blanket,  as  my  use  of 
your  material  would  be  diffuse,  not  just  one  or  two  specific  paragraphs. 


David  K.  Fulton 


The  book  project  is  not  under  the  aegis  of  the  Florida  State  Board  of 
Health,  though  it  is  known  to  them,  and  its  doctors  and  scientists  are 
giving  me  individual  support. 


y-^ 


February  28,  1968 


::r.  David  K.  Pulton 
Florida  State  Board  of  Health 
P.  0.  Box  210 
Jacksonville,  Florida  32201 

Dear  Mr.  Fulton: 

I  have  your  very  kind  letter  of  February  26  and  am  happy  to  know 
that  the  material  I  sent  you  will  prove  useful  in  preparing  a 
book  on  nutrition. 

With  one  exception,  we  have  no  objection  to  your  use  of  the 
material  sent  to  you.  I  refer  to  the  article  "At  Lincoln's  Table" 
which  was  written  by  VJayne  C.  Temple,  Lincoln  Memorial  University, 
Harrogate,  Tennessee.  If  you  use  his  material,  you  had  better 
write  him  for  permission.  You  have  our  permission  to  use  any  of 
the  rest  of  the  material. 

Very  sincerely, 


(Mrs.)  Ruth  P.  Higgins 
*ph/  Asst.  to  Dr.  McMurtry 


The  cake  Mrs.  Lincoln  made  when  Abe  won 


Simple,  local  foods  were  pre- 
ferred by  Abraham  Lincoln, 
and  his  fiumble  tastes  re- 
mained with  him  throughout 
his  years  in  the  White  House. 

Many  of  his  favorite  Middle 
West  dishes  were  recently  put 
together  in  a  menu  for  the  sec- 


ond annual  meeting,  of  (he 
Assn.  for  Modern  Banking  in 
Illinois  at  the  Hyatt  Regency 
Chicago.  The  meal  was  remi- 
niscent of  the  food  served  in 
early  Illinois  for  Springfield 
social  gatherings,  as  Lincoln 
took  many  of  his  Springfield 
favorites  to  Washington  when 
he  became  President. 

When  guests  gathered  during 
presidential  levees,  or  recep- 
tions, in  Washington,  the  fol- 
lowing foods  might  have  been 
served,  as  they  were  at  the  re- 
cent reception:  chicken  salad 
with  log  cabin  cheese  straws; 
oven-baked  biscuits;  raisins 
and  nuts;  fresh  vegetables  in 
their  own  dip,  and  a  hot  egg 
wine,  for  those  who,  like  Lin- 
coln, abstained  from  stronger 
drink. 


The  recent  dinner  began 
with  mock  turtle  soup,  a 
hearty  blend  of  meats,  vege- 
tables and  potatoes  (it  was 
also  chosen  by  Lincoln  on 
March  4,  1861,  for  his  in- 
augural luncheon  at  Willard's 
Hotel  in  Washington).  Corn- 
bread  and  honey,  two  of  his 
favorite  foods,  were  served 
with  the  soup. 

The  salad  was  a  mixture  o! 
garden  greens  grown  in  the 
Springfield  area  during  Lin- 
coln's day,  including  endives, 
which  was  then  called  frizzee 
lettuce.  The  main  course  was 
Sangamon  River  quail  (actual- 
ly cornish  hen),  stuffed  with 
natural  (wild)  rice  and  wild 
mushroom  sauce  and  served 
with  an  assortment  of  farm- 
land vegetables  —  a  wedge  of 


acorn  squash,  buttered   broc- 
coli and  cauliflower. 

Dessert  was  made  from  an 
original  recipe  often  used  by 
Mrs.  Lincoln.  Coffee  was 
poured,  and  a  final  course  — 
fresh  fruit  —  included  Lin- 
coln's favorite,  apples. 

Mary  Todd  Lincoln's 
election  cake 

1  cup  currants 
1 2  cup  brandy 

1  cup  plus  1  tabjespoon 

sugar 
:t  i  cup  scalded  milk 

l  cake  yeast 
\\  cup  warm  water 

1  cup  flour 
lA 

23/ 


pound  butter 
%  cups  sifted  flour 
teaspoon  salt 
teaspoon  mace 


-  t 


v. 


I  teaspoon  cinnamon 
1  egg 

1  teaspoon  grated 

lemon  rind 

2  teaspoons  lemon  juice 

(1)  Soak  currants  in  brandy 
overnight  in  tightly  closed  jar. 
Add  1  tablespoon  sugar  to  the 
scalded  milk;  cool.  Dissolve 
ihe  crumbled  yeast  in  warm 
water  and  add  to  milk.  Add  un- 
sifted flour  and  beat  until  well- 
blended.  Let  rise  in  warm 
place  until  doubled  in  bulk, 
about  I  hour. 

(2)  Cream  butter  and  re- 
maining sugar  until  very  light. 
Drain  brandy  from  currants. 
Place  sifted  flour,  salt,  mace 
and  cinnamon  in  sifter.  Add 
egg  to  creamed  mixture  and 
beat  until  light.  Stir  in  lemon 
rind  and  juice.  Add  yeast  mix- 
ture and  beat  thoroughly.  Add 
currants,  retaining  the  brandy 
for  later.  Sift  in  flour,  add 
brandy  and  beat  well. 

(3)  Place  In  tube  pan  or  9- 
by-5-inch  loaf  pan  that  has 
been  well-greased.  Cover  with 
a  clcth  and  place  in  warm 
place  away  rom  draft.  Allow  to 
rise  until  doubled  in  bulk, 
about  4  to  6  hours.  Bake  in  37-5- 
degree  oven  about  45  minutes. 
Cool  briefly  in  pan.  Turn  out 
on  rack,  allow  to  cool  further. 
Then  serve  with  hot  vanilla 
sauce. 

Note:  Raisins  may  be  substi- 
tuted for  currants,  if  desired. 


n 


n 


c 
i 


W 


c 

CD 


"7 

C 


jncoln's  Home 


Marv  Todd  Lincoln's  brandied  cur- 
rant and  cinnamon  cake  is  a  special 
treat  for  political  days  and  holidays. 
It  is  not  a  sweet  cake,  but  rather  a 
dry  and  semi-moist  creation  in  the 
manner  of  a  traditional  pound  cake 
recipe.  If  you  wish,  raisins  may  be 
used  in  place  of  currants.  It  is  not 
recommended  that  you  freeze  the 
baked  cake,  or  the  yeast  dough.  Nor 
is  it  suggested  that  you  serve  this 
historic  delight  on  George  Washing- 
ton's birthday. 


1  cup  currants,  soaked  overnight 
in  a  tighly  sealed  jar  in  half 
cup  of  quality  brandy. 
1  tablespoon  sugar. 
3/t  cup  scalded  milk. 

1  cake  of  veast — 1  oz.  Crumble. 
Va  cup  warm  water. 
1  cup  unsifted  flour. 
23A  cups  sifted  flour. 
1  cup  sugar. 
Va  cup  butter. 
Vi  teaspoon  of  salt.  (A  salt 
substitute  may  be  used.) 
Va  teaspoon  of  mace. 
Wa  teaspoon  cinnamon. 
1  whole  egg. 

1  teaspoon  of  grated  lemon  rind. 

2  teaspoons  lemon  juice.  (Do  not 
use  juice  concentrate  or  recon- 
stituted juice.) 


To  the  scalded  milk  add  1  tablespoon 
sugar — cool.  Dissolve  yeast  in  warm 
water,  add  to  milk.  Add  the  Unsifted 
flour  and  beat  until  well  blended. 
Let  rise  in  warm  place  until  it  has 
doubled  in  bulk.  About  one  hour  is 
required,  and  placed  in  sunlight  is 
ideal. 

Cream  butter  and  remainder  sugar 
until  very  light.  Drain  brandy  from 
currants,  and  save  the  liquid.  Place 
sifted  flour,  salt,  mace,  and  cinna- 
mon in  sifter.  Add  egg  to  creamed 
butter  and  again  beat  until  light.  Stir 
in  lemon  juice  and  rind.  Add  veast 
mixture  and  beat  thoroughly.  Add 
currants.  Sift  in  flour,  add  the 
brandv  and  beat  well.  Place  in  9x5 
loaf  pan,  or  preferably  a  9x4  bundt 
cake  ring  that  has  been  well  greased. 
Cover  with  a  cloth  and  place  in  a 
warm  area  away  from  drafts.  The 
slow-rising  mixture  must  double  in 


recipe  courtesy  of  Colleen  Barnes 

114  E.    Locust 
Chatham  IL  62629 


bulk  and  this  mav  take  from  four  to 
seven  hours.  One  method,  if  you 
choose,  is  to  heat  your  oven  to  125 
degrees,  turn  it  off,  and  place  the 
mixture  in  the  closed  oven  overnight. 

Bake  at  375°  F.  for  about  45  min- 
utes or  until  you  observe  a  crisp 
brown  top  or  underside.  Allow  to  pan 
cool  for  seven  minutes,  turn  out 
on  rack  for  further  cooling.  Brush 
with  orange  glaze  and  garnish  to 
your  pleasure.  Extra  glaze  should  be 
made  and  served  over  the  individual 
pieces,  in  a  manner  common  to  the 
last  century.  You  may  serve  with 
whip  topping  and  apple  wedge. 

Simple  Orange  Glaze.  To  1  cup  of 
confectioners'  sugar,  add  Va  cup  of 
orange  juice  (fresh  or  frozen),  and 
spread  thin  on  top,  allowing  drizzle 
down  the  sides.  To  provide  more 
icing  for  service,  double  or  triple 
portions.  The  glaze  stays  well  in  your 
refrigerator  and  may  be  thinned 
with  more  juice. 

Enjoy  I 


IE  NEWS-SENTINEL 


MORROW 

I  INTENDED:  We  offer  a 
at  the  "Best  Stressed 
s"  of  1994. 


JANUARY      2  4,      1995 


TUESDAY 


FACTS      D  U      JOUR 


SOURCES:  American  Heritage  Cookbook,  "The  French"  by  Theodore  Zeldin 


By  JAMES  SMALLWOOO  of  Knighl-Ridder  Tribune 


6d 


THURSDAY,  FEBRUARY  15,  1996    NP 


THE  ONE  AND  ONLY  COOK  By  Frances  Price 

Abe  Lincoln's 
favorite  dishes 


"All  through  the  War,  Mrs. 
Lincoln  shopped,"  reported  the 
Washington  Starzbout  the  most 
unpopular,  certainly  the  most  un- 
happy, First  Lady  ever  to  occupy 
the  White  House.  Mary  Todd  Lin- 
coln was  alternately  praised  by  the 
press  for  her  extravagant  good 
taste  in  refurbishing  the  White 
House  (at  Mr.  Lincoln's  expense), 
and  demonized  by  the  people  as 
"Her  Satanic  Majesty"  for  her  lav- 
ish expenditures  on  clothes  and  en- 
tertaining. 

"Doesn't  she  know  there's  a 
war  going  on?"  they  wanted  to 
know  when  they  read  about  the 
fancy  French  buffets  over  which 
she  presided,  featuring  pate  de  fois 
gras,  galantine  of  truffled  turkey, 
tongue  in  aspic,  filet  of  beef,  pheas- 
ant and  champagne  punch,  catered 
by  Delmonico's  of  New  York. 

He  loved  word-spinning  before 
an  audience  but  often  retreated  in- 
to introspective  brooding.  She 
loved  lots  of  company  and  witty 
conversation.  He  cared  so  little 
about  food  that,  according  to  Billy 
Herndon,  his  law  partner,  he 
sometimes  forgot  to  eat  until  re- 
minded. To  distract  him,  Mary 
turned  their  Springfield  home  into 
a  popular  gathering  place  that  was 


noted  for  the  good  table  she  set. 

Fricassee  of  chicken  was  a  spe- 
cialty, cooked  two  ways;  the  first  a 
brown  fricassee  that  was  basically 
Southern  fried  chicken  finished  in 
brown  milk  gravy.  The  second  ver- 
sion follows.  It  is  a  white  fricasee 
'  of  skinless  chicken  pieces,  sim- 
mered in  rich  cream  gravy,  sea- 
soned with  mace,  marjoram  and 
lemon  juice. 

For  Presidents'  Day  Monday 
or  Sunday  dinner,  have  a  taste  of 
history  in  Ante  Bellum  Fricassee 
of  Chicken,  with  wild  rice  or  rosy 
new  potatoes  boiled  in  their  jack- 
ets, green  beans  and  little  corn 
muffins.  Make  dessert  Blackberry 
Cobbler,  as  a  footnote  from 
Lincoln's  first  inaugural  luncheon 
at  the  old  Willard  Hotel  in  Wash- 
ington. The  President  who  cared 
so  little  about  food  planned  the 
menu:  corned  beef  and  cabbage, 
parsley  potatoes,  blackberry  pie 
and  coffee. 

a  Frances  Price  is  a  dietitian  and  chef 
who  writes  and  cooks  in  Baltimore. 
She  welcomes  your  letters  and 
questions  on  nutrition  and  cooking 
and  recipes  for  one.  If  you  wish  a 
reply,  please  send  a  self-addressed,  , 
stamped  envelope  to:  Frances  Price, 
Cooking  For  One,  c/o  Food  Section, 
the  Times,  P.O.  Box  1121,  St. 
Petersburg,  FL  33731.  m 


Ante  Bellum  Fricassee  of  Chicken 


1  (2V2-3  pound)  chicken,  cut 

into  pieces  for  frying 
1/2  small  onion 
1  small  carrot 
1/2  rib  of  celery 
1/2  teaspoon  marjoram 


V'2  teaspoon  black 
peppercorns 

Va  teaspoon  mace 

Salt  to  taste 

1/«  cup  cream 

1  tablespoon  all-purpose  flour 

Juice  of  1  lemon 
Place  wings,  neck  and  back  of  chicken  in  2-quart  saucepan 
with  onion,  carrot  and  celery.  Add  water  enough  to  barely  cover 
chicken  and  bring  to  a  simmer;  skim  and  discard  scum.  Add 
marjoram  and  peppercorns;  simmer  over  low  heat,  uncovered, 
30  minutes-1  hour.  Strain  broth,  skim  off  fat  and  measure  2  cups 
broth  for  use  in  Fricassee.  Freeze  remaining  broth. 

Meanwhile,  skin  remaining  chicken  pieces  and  arrange  in 
single  layer  in  heavy  nonstick  10-inch  skillet.  Add  broth,  mace 
and  salt;  bring  to  a  simmer  and  cook,  covered,  on  low  heat  20 
minutes.  Remove  from  skillet  and  keep  warm. 

To  broth,  add  mace  and  salt;  increase  heat  and  quickly  boil 
broth  until  reduced  to  about  11/2  cups.  Whisk  flour  with  cream 
until  lump-free;  stir  into  broth.  Cook  and  stir  until  gravy  comes  to 
a  boil  and  is  slightly  thickened.  Stir  in  lemon  juice.  Return 
chicken  to  gravy,  turn  heat  to  low,  cover  and  simmer  20  minutes, 
or  until  chicken  is  done  throughout.  Makes  4  servings. 

Nutrients  per  serving:  309  calories,  44  gm.  protein,  2  gm. 
carbohydrate,  13  gm.  fat  including  6  gm.  saturated  fat,  139  mg. 
cholesterol,  367  mg.  sodium,  0  fiber.  Exchanges:  6  meat,  1  fat. 


Blackberry  Cobbler 


1/2  cup  sugar  1  (16  ounce)  package  frozen 

2  teaspoons  cornstarch  blackberries 

Vi  teaspoon  cinnamon  1  cup  reduced  fat  biscuit  mix 

(optional)  Va  cup  1  percent  milk 

Preheat  oven  to  425  degrees  F.  In  small  bowl,  mix  sugar 
with  cornstarch  and  cinnamon  until  lump-free.  Pour  frozen 
blackberries  into  11/2  quart  casserole;  toss  with  sugar-cornstarch 
mixture  to  coat.  Cover  tightly  and  bake  15-20  minutes,  or  until 
berries  are  thawed  and  juices  run  freely. 
Stir  biscuit  mix  with  milk  to  make  stiff  dough.  Stir  blackberry 
filling  well,  then  spoon  over  partly  cooked  filling  to  make  4  drop 
biscuits.  Bake  uncovered  15-20  minutes  longer,  or  until  filling  is 
bubbling  and  biscuits  are  richly  browned.  Serve  warm  or  at  room 
temperature  with  vanilla  yogurt  or  light  cream.  Makes  4  servings. 

Nutrients  per  serving:  236  calories,  3  gm.  protein,  54  gm. 
carbohydrate,  3  gm.  fat,  0  saturated  fat,  13  mg.  cholesterol,  187 
mg.  sodium,  6  gm.  fiber.  Exchanges:  1  fruit,  1  bread,  V2  fat. 


Our  *>*-' 


d;k  -v* 


HOW  LINCOLN  ATE  THE  SPICE  BAG. 

ltenilniscence    i.r    tlm     Emancipator    Fui 
tilfthetl  by  ,t  Chicneo  Girl. 

[This  earns  tliird  pri/.o,  $2.  | 
Today  bei'n?  Lincoln's  birthday    I    tboughi 
I  would  And    you    nn    aucedote    conceinTng 
him  that  I  never  have    been    printed    before! 
Years  ago,  when  my  papa  was  a  little  boy  and 
Abraham  Lincoln   was    a    poor    young    man 
practicing  law  in  Woodford    County,    during 
court  week   at    Metainora    grandpa    brought 
him  homo  to  supper.     It  was  a  cold,    stormy 
Monday  night  and  grandma    hurried    around 
getting  supper  and  thought  she    would    have 
something  extra,  so  she  opened  a- jar  of    pre. 
served  peaches.     \\  hen  they  sat  uown   to    eat 
grandma  dished  the  peaches  out    three    to.  a 
person.     It  seemed  to  take  Abraham  Lincoln 
a  long  time  to  eat  a  peach  and  he  did  not  fin-  j 
ish  it  either.     So  as  soon  as  lie    had    finished 
his  supper  and  had  gone   into    another   room 
giuudmu  went  to  his  dish  to  see  why  it  Was  he 
nadn  t  eaten,  and  there    she    found   ^he    had 
given  him  the    little    muslin    tack    with    the 
peach  kernels  and  spice   in    it    instead    of    a 
peach.      Grandma    hurried     into    the   other 
room  to  apologize   to  Mr.     Lincoln;    and   he 
sa-d  to  her  :     "  That  is  all  right,  Mrs,    J>erry  • 
toy  mother  used  the  same  thing  and  U    was  so 
so  good  that  I  vanted  to  get  ah  the  juice    out', 

."'"'  KRANKIE  I'EBBV.i 

'   iV'   , :  North    Pauliua    street,    Ltike-  »    ' 

■    HisU^Uoul,  Prof.  J.  II.   Norton,  priucj 


w^iK 


LINCOLN'S  GOOD  BREEDING. 
1   J.  G.  Speed  in  Ladies'  Home  Journal. 

The  writer,  remembers  very  well  to 
•have  heard  a  very  fastidious  lady,  a 
member  of  the  Speed  household,  say, 
that  though  at  that  time  Lincoln  had 
none  of  the  polish  and  gracefulness  to 
be  expected  from  those  acquainted  with 
■the  usages  of  society,  he  was  one  of  Na- 
ture's gentlemen  because  of  his  kindli- 
ness of  heart  and  innate  refinement. 
And  after  saying  this  she  recalled  an 
instance  of  real  good  manners  on  his 
part.  At  dinner  there  was  a  saddle  of 
mutton.  The  servant,  after  handing  the 
roast,  passed  a  glass  of  jelly.  Mr.  Lin- 
coln took  the  glass  and  ate  the  jelly  . 
from  it.  The  servant  got  another  glass 
and  passed  it  around.  Mr.  Lincoln  no- 
ticed that  the  others  at  table  merely  took 
£i  spoonful.  Without  embarrassment  et- 
iology he  I  ighed  quietly  and  re- 
i>  :  I:  •'!  S'  .n  to  have  taken  mor<- 
than  my  share,"  and  then  he  went  on 
with  i:is  dinner.  Most  persons,  this  lady 
thought,  after  committing  such  a  sole- 
cism, would  have  been  covered  with  eon- 
fusion  and  profuse  in  apologies. 


UNCOILS  FAVORITE  H50D 

Lincoln  wrote  a  letter  to  Mies  Mary  Speed  of  Louisville,  Ky. 
on  September  27,  1841s 

"I  am  literally  subsisting  on  savoury  remembrances— that  is, 

being  unable  to  eat,  I  am  living  upon  the  remembrance  of  the  delicious 

dishes  of  peaches  and  cream  ve  used  to  have  at  your  house." 


Lincoln  A  'Moderate' 

Man 


By  PAULINE  L.  TELFORD 

Woman's  Editor 
I  though  I'd  read  just  about 
everything  there  was  to  read 
about  Abraham  Lincoln  .  .  his 
general  likes  and  dislikes,  his 
sympathetic  nature,  his  unre- 
quited love  for  Ann  Rutledge, 
his  wrestling  prowess,  his 
knack  for  telling  jokes  .  .  but 
I  was  wrong! 

I'd  never  read  a  word  about 
the  kind  of  foods  he  preferred 
until  the  other  day  when 
I  came  across  an  article  in  one 
of  my  old  DAR  magazines  en- 
titled, "Lincoln  as  Seen  From 
the  Kitchen." 

Written  by  Dr.  Wayne  C. 
Temple,  director  of  the  depart- 
ment of  Lincolniana,  Lincoln 
Memorial  University,  Harro- 
gate, Tenn.,  the  article  was 
filled  with  remarks  on  Lin- 
coln's eating  habits  as  noted 
by  people  who  had  known  him 
during  his  New  Salem  and 
Springfield  days. 

It  also  included  some  con- 
tradictory and  little  publicized 
background  on  Mary  Todd 
Lincoln's  culinary  prowess. 

Probably  Lincoln's  step- 
mother, Mrs.  Sarah  Bush  John- 
ston Lincoln,  was  the  first  to 
notice  that  "Abe  was  a  mod- 
erate eater  .  .  he  sat  down 
and  ate  what  was  set  before 
him,  making  no  complaint." 
But  it  seems,  even  though  he 


never  complained  of  the  fare, 
he  rarely  praised  a  dish, 
either! 

When  he  moved  to  New 
Salem  in  1831  he  boarded  at 
the  Rutledge  Tavern  where 
his  breakfast  consisted  main- 
ly of  corn  bread,  bacon  and 
eggs.  Mrs.  Jack  Armstrong, 
with  whose  family  Lincoln  had 
many  of  his  meals,  said  he 
ate  mush,  corn  bread  and 
milk  in  her  home,  and  that 
if  he  had  a  delicacy  that  he 
enjoyed  at  this  time,  it  was 
honey. 

Leonard  Sweet,  a  fellow  law- 
yer with  whom  Lincoln 
traveled  when  he  covered  the 
Eighth  Judicial  Circuit,  said 
that  he  had  "never,  in  the  10 
years  of  circuit  life  he  knew 
him,  heard  him  complain  of  a 
hard  bed  or  a  bad  meal  of 
victuals." 

William  H.  Herndon,  Lin- 
coln's last  law  partner,  said 
Lincoln  "had  a  good  appetite 
and  good  digestion,  ate  me- 
chanically, never  asking  why 
such  a  thing  was  not  on  the 
table  nor  why  it  was  on  it,  if 
so;  he  filled  up,  and  that  is 
all." 

If  he  had  a  favorite  light  re- 
past, it  was  'apples  and  fruits 
generally.'  There  were  times, 
however,  when  he  would  come 
down  to  the  Lincoln  &  Herndon 
law  office  in  the  morning  and 
breakfast  upon  cheese,  bolo- 
gna sausage  and  crackers. 

What  a  trial  then,  Lincoln's 
eating  habits  must  have  been 
to  his  wife,  Mary  Ann  Todd, 
who  had  been  raised  in  Ken- 
tucky's beautiful  Blue  Grass 
region  where  gracious  living 
and  savory  cooking  were  fa- 
mous, and  whose  parties  were 
known  for  their  variety  of  fine 
foods. 

Isaac  N.  Arnold  vowed  "her 
table  was  famed  for  the  ex- 
cellence of  its  rare  Kentucky 


loaded  with  venison,  wild  tur- 
keys, prairie  chicken,  quails, 
and  other  game,  which  in  those 
early  days  was  abundant." 

Billy  Herndon,  on  the  other 
hand,  after  reading  Arnold's 
book,  stoutly  declared  that 
Mrs.  Lincoln  "kept  or  set  a 
poor  table"  for  the  daily  meals 
and  only  splurged  when  she 
entertained  guests. 

Lincoln's  sister-in-law,  Mrs. 
Ionian  Wirt  Edwards,  re- 
counted that  he  "ate  me- 
chanically" and  that  she  had 
seen  him  "sit  down  at  the 
table  and  never  unless  recalled 
to  his  senses  would  he  think,  of 
food." 

When  Lincoln  did  express 
a  preference,  it  was  for  a 
'good  hot  cup  of  coffee'.  And 
he  liked  meat  as  well  as  vege- 
tables. 

But  although  he  was  absent- 
minded  about  eating,  he  ap- 
parently paid  enough  attention 
when  it  came  to  buying  food. 
Page  Eaton,  a  Springfield 
carpenter,  observed  him  "at 
the  baker's  and  butcher's 
every  morning  with  his  basket 
on  his  arm."  For  10  cents  Lin- 
coln could  buy  enough  steak 
for  a  meal,  and  he  would  carry 
the  brown  -  paper  wrapped 
package  home  himself  instead 
of  having  it  delivered. 

When  Lincoln  moved  to 
Washington  as  President,  he 
neglected  his  meals  even 
more  than  he  had  in  Spring- 
field. 
One  day  while  F.  B.  Carpen- 


ter  was  living  with  the  Lin- 
colns  at  the  White  House  and 
painting  "The  First  Reading  of 
the  Emancipation  Proclama- 
tion Before  the  Cabinet,"  the 
clock  struck  12  noon.  Lincoln 
listened  to  the  chiming,  then 
exclaimed:"  I  believe,  byvthe 
by,  that  I  have  not  yet  had 
my  breakfast." 

At  noon  Lincoln  "took  a  little 
lunch  .  .  a  biscuit,  a  glass  of 
milk  in  winter,  some  fruit  or 
grapes  in  summer". 

John  Hay,  one  of  his  private 
secretaries,  said  "he  ate  less 
than  anyone  I  know." 

"It  was  often  a  matter  of 
surprise  to  me,"  wrote  Car- 
penter, "how  the  President 
sustained  life;  for  it  seemed, 
some  weeks,  as  though  he 
neither  ate  nor  slept." 

Dr.  Henry  Whitney  Bellows 
of  the  Sanitary  Commission 
remarked  to  Lincoln  one  day: 
"Mr.  President,  I  am  here  at 
almost  every  hour  of  the  day 
or  night,  and  I  never  saw  you 
at  the  table;  do  you  ever  eat?" 
"I  try  to,"  replied  Lincoln, 
"I  manage  to  browse  about 
pretty  much  as  I  can  get  it." 
Noah  Brooks,  an  old  friend 
from  Illinois,  said  "On  one  oc- 
casion, I  remember,  he  asked 
me  to  come  in  and  take  break- 
fast with  him,  as  he  had  some 
questions  to  ask.  He  was  evi- 
dently eating  without  noting 
what  he  ate;  and  when  I  re- 
marked that  he  was  different 
from  most  western  men  in  his 
preference  for  milk  at  break 


fast,  he  said,  eyeing  his  glass 
of  milk  with  surprise,  as  if  he 
had  not  before  noticed  what  he 
was  drinking,  'Well,  I  do  pre- 
fer coffee  in  the  morning,  but 
they  don't  seem  to  have  sent 
me  in  any.'  " 

When  the  lunch  hour  arrived, 
a  servant  generally  carried  'a 
simple  meal  upon  a  tray'  to 
Lincoln's  second  floor  office. 
Sometimes  he  would  not 
examine  the  contents  for  sev- 
eral hours;  then  he  would 
sample  them  in  a  'most  un- 
ceremonious manner.' 

If  Lincoln  ever  had  time  for 
a  full  meal  it  was  usually  in 
the  evening  when  dinner  was| 
served  at  the  White  House. 

Guests  were  often  present  at 
this  hour  and  Lincoln  made  a 
formal  appearance  to  welcome 
them.  On  such  events,  Mrs. 
Lincoln  either  had  the  food 
prepared  in  the  White  House 
kitchen  or  had  it  served  by  a 
caterer.  j 

As  to  whether  or  not  Lincoln! 
ever  drank  liquor  .  . 

Billy  Herndon  said  that  he 
"did  drink  when  he  thought  it 
would  do  him  good." 

However,  in  spite  of  the  fact 
that  his  account  at  the  Corneau 
&  Diller  Drug  Store  in  Spring- 
field showed  a  few  purchases 
of  brandy  by  the  bottle,  there 
is  no  proof  that  it  was  Lincoln 
who  consumed  it. 

Leonard  Sweet  remembered 
that  upon  occasion,  Lincoln 
drank  wine  and  that  in  the 
White  House  "he  used  to  drink 


a  glass  of  champagne  with  his 
dinner,  but  I  believe  that  it 
was  prescribed  for  him." 

By  and  large,  it  would  seem 
safe  to  say  that  Lincoln,  who 
had  once  joined  a  temperance 
union,  was  moderate  in  his 
drinking. 

Obviously,  coffee  was  h  i  s 
cup  of  tea. 

Alexander  Williamson  some- 
times found  the  President  in 
his  office  "squatted  on  the  rug 
in  front  of  the  fire  trying  to 
heat  his  cup  of  coffee,  which, 
owing  to  early  visitors,  had 
been  allowed  to  cool. 

"He  entered  that  office  at  7 
o'clock  every  morning." 


White  House 

China  Plate 

Collection 

Recipe 


Abraham 
Lincoln 


Fresh  Cherry  Pie 


As  a  young  lawyer,  Abraham  Lincoln  enjoyed  the  homemade  fruit  pies 
baked  by  the  ladies  of  New  Salem,  Illinois.  After  he  left  for  Washington,  these 
ladies  would  ship  fruit  pies  to  the  White  House,  decorated  with  steam  gashes 
in  the  shapes  of  stars,  letters  to  indicate  the  type  of  fruit,  or  "L"  for  Lincoln. 
President  Lincoln  cherished  their  thoughtfulness  and  enjoyed  pies  like  this 
classic  recipe: 


4  c.  fresh  pitted  cherries 
1  -  3/4  c.  sugar 
2-1/2  T.  tupiocu 
1/4  tsp.  almond  flavoring 


1/4  tsp.  mace 

1/4  tsp.  red  food  coloring 

1/3  c.  butter 


LINCOLN  Had  a  Sweet  Tooth,  Too 


DICK.     ST  O  \  P. 


You  may  well   be  proud  to  serve  this  Lincoln   Log  at  a  dinner  tor  friends  or  family. 
It    is   just   as   luscious   as   it   Is   handsome,  yet    it    is    surprisingly    easy    to    prepare. 


AOMORROW  BEING  Lin- 
coin's  birthday,  it's  quite 
proper  to  let  your  food 
thoughts  wander  over  some  of 
the  thinga  that  the  great  man 
liked — and  he  dearly  loved  to 
eat.  He  had  an  insatiable 
sweet  tooth. 

They  say  that  when  he 
was  in  the  grocery  business — 
and  he  was,  twice — he  couldn't 
pass  the  molasses  barrel  with- 
out testing  the  spigot!  In  his 
day  a  pitcher  of  molasses  was 
on  the  table  every  meal — for 
corn  bread  or  biscuits  right  out 
of  the  oven!  If  that  custom 
were  revived,  it  would  go  a 
long  way  toward  taking  the 
pressure  off  the  food  budget, 
and  at  the  same  time  provide 
the  kind  of  nourishment  needed 
these  hectic  daya. 

This  big  man  was  a  pie 
eater,  too!  His  favorite  was 
molasses  pie — with  pecans  in 
the  tilling.  When  he  moved  to 
Washington,  a  baker  heard 
about  this  "weakness"  for  such 
pie,  and  made  him  one.  In  no 
time  at  all,  Molasses  Pecan  Pie 
was  this  baker's  "bread  and 
butter,"  and  Lincoln  one  of  his 
best  customers. 


LINCOLN'S  BIRTHDAY 
is  a  wonderful  day  to  have  a 
party  for  the  children.  The 
youngsters  will  get  a  kick  out 
of  celebrating  this  famous 
President's  birthday  —  espe- 
cially with  these  clever  Log 
Cabins.  You'll  feel  like  cele- 
brating, too,  because  they're  so 
easy  to  make!  A.  few  minutes' 
work  and  you're  ready  for  the 
young  guests.  They  look  so 
decorative  on  the  table  and 
have  a  wonderful  flavor.  Thesr 
interesting  Log  Cabins  skill- 
fully blend  the  flavors  of  sev- 
eral old  favorites  —  graham 
crackers,  fresh  citrus  fruits 
and  whipped  cream. 

Log  Cabins 

0  Wh.pped  cream  —  one  con- 
tainer or  */2  pint  whipping 
cream,  whipped,  plus  4  tea- 
spoons sugar 

□  Orange  peel — 4  teaspoons, 
grated 

Q   Lemon  peel — 4  teaspoons, 

grated 
O    Lemon  juice — 4  teaspoons 

□  Grohom  crackers 

□  Dates,  chopped 

□  Gumdrops 

□  Candy  sticks 
Q    Lemonj 


In  this  kitchen  Mrs.  Abraham  Lincoln  and  her  various  "hired  girls" 
cooked  for  the  man  who  later  became  President  of  the  United  States. 
Their  modest  home  at  Eighth  and  Jackson  streets  in  Springfield,  Illinois, 
is  now  a  state  memorial.  Here  the  Lincolns  lived  from  1844  until  1861. 


Hoosier  Country 
Cooking 


One  hundred  and  fifty  years  ago  it  was  a  family  effort  to  provide  even  simple 
fare  for  the  pioneers'  meals.  The  countryside  abounded  with  wild  animals  and 
hostile  Indians  as  well  as  wild  fruit,  nuts,  honey  and  edible  roots.  As  more 
of  the  thrifty  settlers  came  to  Indiana  bringing  seeds  and  farm  animals, 
agriculture  became  the  basis  of  the  prosperity  of  the  Hoosier  family  as  well  as 
the  state. 

Neighborliness  was  one  of  the  great  virtues  of  the  country  folks,  finding  expression 
In  co-operative  activities  such  as  the  "husking  bee"  with  its  fateful  red  ear  of 
corn.  "Lending  a  hand"  meant  not  only  work  but  dancing,  cooking,  and  eating. 
A  hearty  and  bountiful  table  was  provided  at  the  old-time  country  frolics,  such 
as  these  authentic  recipes. 


THE  "HUSKING"  FEAST 

Breakfast  Stew  Hoosier  Barbecued  Pork 
Fried  Tomato  Slices  Succotash 

Johnnycake  Sally  Lunn 

Pickles  Wild  Berry  Jam 

Cheddar  Apple  Pie  Maple  Gingerbread 


MODERN  GIRLS  COOK  WITH  GAS 


BREAKFAST  STEW  OF  BEEF 

2  tablespoons  butter  V2  teaspoon  savory 

1  medium  onion,  chopped  V2  teaspoon  marjoram 

2  pounds  lean  beef,  cubed  1  teaspoon  Worcestershire  sauce 
2  tablespoons  flour  1  teaspoon  prepared  mustard 

1  cup  beef  broth  Juice  of  V2  lemon 

%  teaspoon  salt  Few  sprigs  parsley,  chopped 

V*  teaspoon  pepper 

Set  burner-with-a-brain  at  175°  and  melt  butter  in  a  saucepan.  Then  set  burner 
at  325°,  add  onion,  and  saute  until  wilted.  Dust  beef  cubes  with  flour,  add  them 
to  the  onion,  and  saute  until  well  browned  on  all  sides.  Stir  in  broth,  salt,  pepper, 
savory,  and  marjoram.  Cover  and  cook  at  212°  to  225°  for  about  IV2  hours  or 
until  very  tender.  Before  serving,  stir  in  remaining  ingredients.  Thicken  the  gravy 
if  necessary.  Serve  over  toast,  hot  grits,  steamed  rice,  or  with  boiled  potatoes. 
Serves  4. 


HOOSIEB  BARBECUED  PORE 

5  to  7  pound  pork  loin  roast  V2  small  garlic  clove,  peeled 

V2  cup  unsulphured  molasses  1  small  onion,  minced 

V2  cup  vinegar  V2  teaspoon  ground  ginger 

Vi  cup  soy  sauce  Vi  teaspoon  Tabasco 

1  can  (9  ounces)  crushed  pineapple  1  can  (8  ounces)  tomato  sauce 

Place  roast  in  a  shallow  baking  dish,  meat  side  down.  Combine  the  remaining 
ingredients,  except  tomato  sauce.  Pour  over  roast.  Cover  and  refrigerate  over- 
night. Remove  meat  from  marinade;  brush  onion  from  meat  and  return  to 
marinade;  reserve.  Place  roast,  rib  ends  up,  on  rack  in  aluminum-foil-lined  roasting 
pan.  Insert  meat  thermometer  into  center  of  loin,  away  from  bone.  Roast  in 
a  325  °F.  oven,  3  to  4  hours,  or  until  thermometer  registers  185°F.  During  last 
half-hour  of  roasting  time,  put  marinade  into  a  saucepan.  Cook  over  medium 
heat,  stirring  occasionally,  until  mixture  is  reduced  to  1  cup.  Add  tomato  sauce; 
heat  to  serving  temperature.  Serve  with  meat.  If  roasting  on  a  rotisserie,  a 
boned  rolled  pork  loin  may  be  preferred.  YIELD:  2  to  3  servings  per  pound. 


FRIED  TOMATO  SLICES 

Choose  almost  ripe  but  firm  tomatoes  and  cut  in  slices  about  Va-inch  thick.  Plan 
on  2  to  3  slices  per  person.  Dip  each  slice  of  tomato  into  corn  meal  seasoned 
with  salt  and  pepper,  coating  both  sides.  Set  burner-with-a-brain  at  325°  and 
fry  some  bacon  until  crisp  (allow  at  least  2  slices  per  person).  Drain  on  paper 
towels.  Add  tomato  slices  to  bacon  fat  (a  thin  film  of  fat  is  sufficient)  and  fry 
several  minutes  on  each  side  or  until  coating  is  crisp.  To  fry  more  than  one 
panful  of  tomato  slices,  wipe  out  pan  and  add  more  fat  before  proceeding  with 
second  batch. 


SUCCOTASH 

1  cup  fresh   Lima   beans  or   1  V2  teaspoon  salt 

package  frozen   Lima   beans  Dash  of  pepper 

1  cup  whole  kernel  com  (fresh,  V2  teaspoon  sugar 

frozen,   or  canned)  yt  cup  ■water 

1  tablespoon  butter  2  tablespoons  heavy  cream 

Cook  Lima  beans  in  boiling,  salted  water  until  tender  with  burner-with-a-brain 
set  at  212°  (if  frozen  Lima  beans  are  used,  cook  according  to  package  directions). 
Mix  cooked  beans  with  corn  (if  fresh,  cut  from  the  cob;  if  canned,  drain;  if 
frozen,  use  straight  from  the  package),  butter,  salt,  pepper,  sugar,  and  water. 
Cook  for  10  to  15  minutes.  Drain,  then  add  cream.  Heat  at  175°  (do  not  boil). 
Serves  6  to  8. 


JOHNNYCAKE 

2  cups  corn  meal  2  cups  sour  milk 

lVi  teaspoons  salt  2  eggs,  beaten 

1  teaspoon  baking  soda  2  tablespoons  melted  shortening 

2  tablespoons  sugar  or  °U 

Sift  dry  ingredients  together  and  add  milk,  eggs  and  shortening.  Mix  well. 
(This  is  a  thin  batter.)  Pour  into  greased  8  x  10-inch  pan  and  bake  in  hot  oven 
400°  for  30  minutes.  (If  using  the  burner-with-a-brain,  bake  in  greased  8  inch 
frying  pan  with  lid  and  set  burner  at  300°  for  30  to  35  minutes.) 


SALLY  LUNN 

2  cups  sifted  flour  1  cup  milk 

3  teaspoons  baking  powder  Vz  cup  shortening 
V2  teaspoon  salt                                             V*  cup  sugar 

1  egg,  beaten 

Sift  flour  with  baking  powder  and  salt.  Combine  egg  and  milk.  Cream  shortening 
and  sugar  together  and  add  flour  alternately  with  liquid  mixture.  Place  in 
greased  loaf  pan  or  muffin  pans  and  bak9  in  moderate  oven  375°  for  30 
minutes.  Makes  1  loaf  or  12  muffins.  (If  using  the  burner-with-a-brain,  bake  in 
greased  8  inch  frying  pan  with  lid  and  set  burner  at  275°  for  35  minutes.) 


APPLE  PIE  WITH  CHEDDAR  PASTRY 

1%  cups  sifted  all-purpose  flour  Vz  cup  shortening 

Vi  teaspoon  salt  Vt  cup  ice  ■water 

1  cup  grated  Cheddar  cheese,  Filling  for  Apple   Pie 
loosely  packed 

Sift  flour  and  salt  together,  then  work  in  the  cheese  thoroughly  with  a  fork. 
Work  in  the  shortening,  then  add  the  water,  sprinkling  it  over  the  surface  of 
the  mixture.  Stir  lightly  with  a  fork  until  pastry  holds  together.  Divide  pastry 
in  half  and  line  a  9-inch  pie  pan  with  one  portion,  saving  the  other  for  the 
top  crust.  Refrigerate  both  while  you  make  your  favorite  Apple  Pie  filling. 
Eake  as  directed  for  Apple  Pie.  Serve  warm  if  preferred. 


MAPLE  GINGERBREAD 

2'/3    cups   sifted    all-purpose   flour  1  egg 

1  teaspoon  baking  soda  1  cup  maple  syrup 

\Vz     teaspoons  powdered  ginger  1  cup  sour  cream 

Vi  teaspoon  salt  4  tablespoons  melted  butter 

Sift  together  flour,  baking  soda,  ginger,  and  salt.  Set  aside.  In  a  separate  bowl 
beat  egg  vigorously,  then  stir  in  maple  syrup,  sour  cream,  and  butter.  Mix 
in  the  sifted  dry  ingredients  and  pour  into  a  greased  and  lightly-floured  11  x  7  x  lVi- 
inch  baking  pan.  Bake  in  a  350°  oven  for  30  minutes  or  until  cake  pulls  away 
from  the  sides  of  the  pan.  When  cool,  frost  the  top  with  Maple  Frosting.  MAPLE 
FROSTING:  2  cups  confectioners'  sugar,  pinch  of  salt.  1  tablespoon  softened 
butter,  3  tablespoons  maple  syrup,  1  tablespoon  heavy  cream.  Combine  all 
ingredients.  Beat  until  mixture  is  smooth.  Add  more  syrup  or  cream  if 
necessary  until  of  a   spreading  consistency. 


These  recipes  tested  by  the 

HOME  SERVICE  DEPARTMENT 

The  Gas  Company 


GAS  makes  the  BIG  difference    (A)    costs  less  too! 


WILTED  GREEN  SALAD 


Leaf  lettuce,  dandelion,  endive,  spinach, 
or  other  greens 

Dressing  -  Bacon,  diced 

2  eggs,  slightly  beaten 
1/2  c.  sugar 
l/2  c.  water 
l/2  c.  vinegar 

Wash,  dry,  and  tear  greens  in  small 
pieces.  Chill. 

Just  before  serving,  prepare  dressing. 
Fry  the  diced  bacon  until  crisp  at  325° 
on  the  Burner-with-a-Brain.  Add  sugar, 
water  and  vinegar  to  the  2  eggs,  slightly 
beaten.  Reduce  temperature  to  200°  and 
add  egg  mixture. 

Stir  until  thickened.  Pour  over  greens 
and  cover  bowl  with  pan  so  steam  will 
wilt  greens.   Transfer  to  serving  bowl. 
Sprinkle  with  crumbled  hard-cooked  eggs 
and  serve. 


Home  Service  Department 
The  Gas  Company 


CooK 


e*y 


INDIANA'S  SPENCER  COUNTY  LINCOLN 


In  December  of  1816  the  Lincoln  family 
moved  from  Kentucky  to  Southern  Indiana,  locat- 
ing on  Little  Pigeon  Creek  in  what  is  now  Spencer 
County.   Here  young  Abe,  age  7,  would  grow  from 
youth  into  manhood.   His  formative  years  would 
be  spent  attending  school  "by  littles"  and  by 
reading  the  familiar  classics  of  his  day:   The 
Bible,  Aesop's  Fables,  The  Pilgrim's  Progress, 
Robinson  Crusoe  and  many  others. 

Young  Abe  helped  his  father  clear  and 
tend  the  land,  became  an  expert  with  an  axe, 
but  never  cared  for  manual  labor.   He  worked 
on  the  James  Taylor  farm,  plowing,  splitting 
rails,  slaughtering  hogs  and  operating  the 
ferry  across  the  Anderson  River.   Lincoln's 
first  venture  into  court  came  as  a  result  of 
the  ferry  operation  when  he  successfully  de- 
fended himself  in  a  suit  on  ferry  infringement 
rights  in  Kentucky. 

The  Lincoln  family  moved  from  Spencer 
County  on  March  1,  1830,  to  Illinois. 

We  invite  you  to  follow  one  of  the  Lincoln 
Heritage  Trails  to  Southwestern  Indiana  to  visit 
the  Lincoln  Boyhood  National  Memorial  which 
preserves  the  site  of  the  Lincoln  farm  and  the 
burial  place  of  Nancy  Hanks  Lincoln.  "Nearby 
is  the  Lincoln  State  Park  which  preserves  part 
of  the  "Original  America"  where  you  may  boat, 
fish,  hike  and  camp.   Also  close  by  is  the 
Pigeon  Creek  Baptist  Church  where  Lincoln's 
only  sister,  Sarah  Lincoln  Grigsby,  is  buried. 


SALLY'S  WEDDING  DINNER 

2  fat  wild  turkeys  roasted  a  rich  brown 

A  saddle  of  deer  meat 

6  large  vegetable  pies  -  full  of  turnips, 

beans  and  potatoes 
A  big  bowl  of  wild  honey 
A  bowl  of  maple  sugar 

At  least  a  hundred  fried  Kentucky  wonders 
Watermelon  preserves 
Cherry  preserves 
Bushel  of  pawpaws 
Tea 

--From  "Abe  Lincoln  of  Pigeon  Creek", 

By  Wm.  E.  Wilson 

Abraham  Lincoln's  sister,  Nancy,  called  Sarah  or 
Sally,  was  born  February  10,  1807  and  died 
January  20,  1828,  a  few  years  after  her  marriage 
to  Aaron  Grigsby. 

FOODS  THAT  LINCOLN  LIKED 

This  section  of  the  country  was  famous  for 
sausage.   Each  housewife  had  her  own  special  recipe  - 
with  her  own  method  of  mixing  and  seasoning.   Abe 
Lincoln's  stepmother  was  one  of  the  best  sausage 
makers. 

On  a  solid  block  of  hard  wood,  she  would  pound 
the  best  cuts  of  meat  available  with  a  wooden  mallet. 
Then  she  would  add  seasoning  and  herbs  and  mix  it 
thoroughly.   The  sausage  was  packed  into  crocks  and 
covered  with  freshly  rendered  lard  and  set  away  to 
ripen.   Abe  Lincoln  said  he  could  smell  that  good 
sausage  cooking  when  he  was  still  a  mile  away  from 
home . 

Abe  loved  to  have  fried  apples  and  salt  pork 
for  breakfast--or  biscuits  with  ham  and  cream  gravy. 

Another  favorite  from  Lincoln  days,  was  a  thick 
steak  fried  in  a  heavy  skillet  with  plenty  of  butter, 
then  spread  with  salt  and  mustard  and  cooked  over 
a  low  heat  until  very  tender.   Place  on  a  hot  platter 
and  serve  it  with  chopped  pickled  walnuts.   Then 
pour  a  cup  of  strong  coffee  in  the  fry  pan  and  let 
it  boil  up  one  time,  pour  it  over  the  steak  and 
serve  quickly. 


THE  LINCOLN'S  HONEY  AND  ALMOND  CAKE 

1/2  cup  shortening  1/2  teaspoon  salt 

1/2  teaspoon  ginger  1/2  teaspoon  cinnamon 

1  cup  honey  1  cup  blanched  almonds,  chopped 

2  eggs,  unbeaten  1/4  teaspoon  soda 

1  teaspoon  baking  powder    2  and  1/2  cup  sifted 
1/2  cup  water  cake  flour 

1/4  cup  honey 

Cream  shortening,  salt,  ginger  and  cinnamon.   Add 
1  cup  honey  and  continue  beating.   Beat  in  eggs  one 
at  a  time.   Add  sifted  cake  flour  with  salt,  soda 
and  baking  powder,  alternately  with  1/2  cup  water, 
blending  but  not  over  beating.   Pour  into  well 
greased  and  floured  9x9x1  and  1/2  pan.   Mix  remaining 
honey  and  nuts  and  sprinkle  over  top  of  batter. 
Bake  at  325  degrees  for  59  to  60  minutes. 

DRESSING  FOR  COLD  SLAW 

Beat  2  eggs  with  2  tablespoons  of  sugar.   Add  butter 
size  of  walnut  (about  1  tablespoon) ,  1  teaspoonful 
prepared  mustard,  a  dash  of  pepper,  and  lastly  a 
cup  of  vinegar.   Cook  like  soft  custard.   Some  seem 
to  think  it  improved  by  adding  a  cupful  of  thick 
sweet  cream  to  dressing.   In  that  case  use  less  vinegar. 
--Blanche  Lingensmith,  Lincoln  City 

CINNAMON  PUDDING 

1/2  cup  butter 

2  cups  brown  sugar 

1  and  1/2  cup  cold  water 

Let  this  melt,  but  not  boil.   For  the  batter,  mix 
together: 

1  cup  granulated  sugar 

1  tablespoon  butter 

2  cups  flour 

2  teaspoon  baking  powder 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

1  cup  milk 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 

1/2  cup  walnuts 
Pour  batter  on  sauce  in  baking  pan.   Bake  30  to  40 
minutes  in  moderate  oven  (350  degrees). 

--Mrs.  Kathleen  Walters 


GRAPE  BUTTER 

Take  sweet  apples  and  grapes,  half  and  half.   Cook 
the  apples  tender,  and  rub  through  a  colander. 
Prepare  the  grapes  as  above,  using  1  pound  of 
sugar  to  2  pounds  of  mixed  fruit.   The  skins  may 
be  boiled  in  a  bag  and  taken  out  later,  or  they 
may  be  stirred  into  the  butter.   The  above  is  the 
better  way.   Leave  plain  or  spiced  to  suit  taste. 

QUEEN  FRITTERS 

One  quarter  cup  butter,  one  half  cup  boiling  water, 
one  half  cup  flour,  two  eggs.   As  soon  as  water 
boils,  put  in  the  butter.   Add  the  flour.   Stir 
until  the  mixture  leaves  the  side  of  the  saucepan. 
Remove  from  fire  and  add  eggs,  one  at  a  time, 
beating  mixture  thoroughly.   Drop  by  spoonfuls 
in  deep  boiling  lard.   Drain,  make  an  opening  and 
fill  with  preserves  and  sprinkle  sugar  on  top. 

--Charlotte  Baird 

APPLE  CRISP 

Slice  5  or  6  apples  thin  in  greased  pan.   (About 
7x11  size).   Put  about  1/4  cup  sugar  over  this 
and  stir  it  in.   Mix  1  cup  flour,  3/4  cup  sugar, 
1  teaspoon  baking  powder,  3/4  teaspoon  salt  and 
1  unbeaten  egg  with  a  fork  until  crumbly  and 
sprinkle  over  apples.   Pour  over  this  1/2  cup  melted 
shortening  then  sprinkle  with  cinnamon.   Bake  30 
to  40  minutes  at  350  degrees.   Serve  with  sauce. 

--Mrs.  Oatis  Tribbie 

PERSIMMON  PUDDING 

1  cup  persimmon  pulp     1/2  teaspoon  salt 

2  well  beaten  eggs       1/4  teaspoon  cinnamon 
1  cup  milk  3/4  cup  sugar 

1  cup  flour  1  and  1/2  tablespoon  butter 

1/2  teaspoon  soda 

Stir  the  liquid  ingredients  into  the  dry,  and  add 
1  and  1/2  tablespoons  melted  butter.   Pour  batter 
into  greased  pan  about  2  inches  deep  and  bake  about 
an  hour  at  325  degrees.   Serve  hot  or  cold  with  cream. 


POTATO  SOUP 

Boil  one  quart  water,  then  put  in  two  or  three 
strips  of  bacon,  two  chopped  onions,  a  pinch  of  salt 
and  pepper,  slice  one-half  pint  of  raw  potatoes. 
Boil  the  whole  until  the  potatoes  are  reduced  to 
a  pulp  and  strain.   Double  the  quantities  for  large 
families . 

--Mrs.  S.  McLeish 


GUMBO  SOUP 

1/2  pound  beef,  1/4  pound  ham,  put  on  brisk  fire 

and  fry  brown,  add  1  and  1/2  tablespoonful  of  flour, 

1  tablespoonful  of  parsley,  1  quart  of  okra  cut  up 

in  small  pieces,  1/2  gallon  water,  3  or  4  cloves, 

a  pinch  of  allspice  and  pepper  to  taste.   Just 

before  taking  up  add  a  tablespoon  of  fresh  or  powdered 

sassafras. 

— Mrs.  A.  Lemcke 


NOODLES  FOR  SOUP 

Beat  with  one  egg  a  half  cupful  of  flour  and  one- 
fourth  of  a  teaspoonful  of  salt.   Work  this  dough 
with  the  hands  until  it  becomes  smooth  and  like 
putty,  then  roll  it  as  thin  as  a  wafer  on  a  well 
floured  board.   Let  this  sheet  of  dough  lie  for  five 
minutes,  after  which  roll  it  up  loosely,  and  with 
a  sharp  knife  cut  it  from  the  end  into  very  thin 
slices,  forming  little  wheels  or  curls.   Spread  these 
pieces  on  the  board  to  dry  for  half  an  hour  -  even 
longer  will  do  no  harm.   Next  cook  them  twenty- 
five  minutes  in  boiling  salted  water,  and  drain  thor- 
oughly in  a  colander,  when  they  are  ready  for  use 
in  soup. 

— Mrs.  E.  H.  Young 

SUGAR  PLUMS 

Wash  a  quantity  of  red  or  wild  goose  plums,  thor- 
oughly.  Prick  each  one  with  a  fork,  spread  on  large 
platters  and  place  in  sun  to  dry.   When  partly  dry, 
sprinkle  with  sugar.   When  dry  enough  to  keep  well, 
pack  in  a  jar  with  sugar. 


The  following  three  recipes  became  favorites 
of  Abraham  Lincoln  after  he  left  Indiana,  and  was 
living  in  Illinois. 

MARY  TODD'S  WHITE  CAKE 

Mr.  Lincoln  is  said  to  have  remarked  that  Mary- 
Todd's  White  Cake  was  the  best  he  had  ever  eaten. 
This  confection  was  originated  by  Monsieur  Giron, 
a  Lexington  caterer,  on  the  occasion  of  Lafayette's 
visit. 

1  cup  butter 

2  cups  sugar 

3  cups  flour 
1  cup  milk 

1  cup  finely  chopped  blanched  almonds 

3  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Whites  of  6  eggs 

1  teaspoon  vanilla  (or  any  flavoring) 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  sift  flour  and  baking  powder 
together  3  times,  and  add  to  butter  and  sugar, 
alternating  with  the  milk.   Stir  in  the  nut  meats 
and  beat  well.   Then  fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten 
whites  and  the  flavoring.   Pour  into  a  well  greased 
and  floured  pan.   The  old  fashioned,  fluted  copper 
pan  with  a  center  funnel  was  probably  used  originally. 
Bake  1  hour  in  a  moderate  oven  (350  degrees),  or 
until  the  cake  tests  done.   For  a  good  basic  white 
cake,  omit  almonds.   Batter  can  be  baked  in  two  9 
inch  cake  pans . 

LADY  FINGERS 

Four  tablespoons  sugar  mixed  with  yolks  of  four 
eggs,  4  tablespoonfuls  flour,  and  1  teaspoon  lemon 
extract.   Beat  whites  to  a  stiff  froth  and  stir  in. 
Squeeze  through  a  funnel  of  writing  paper  on  to  a 
greased  paper  in  a  dripping  pan,  and  bake  in  small 
cakes  in  a  moderate  oven. 


LEMON  CUSTARD  PIE 

This  Lemon  Custard  Pie  was  a  favorite  of  Abraham 
Lincoln  when  he  stayed  at  a  hotel  in  Illinois, 
operated  by  a  Mrs.  Nancy  Breedlove.   "Honest  Abe", 
as  they  all  called  Lincoln  then,  stayed  there 
three  weeks  at  a  time,  when  engaged  in  court  trials. 

He  liked  Mrs.  Breedlove 's  pie  so  well  that  he  asked 
her  to  write  out  the  recipe,  and  he  told  her  years 
later  that  it  was  the  favorite  White  House  dessert. 
This  was  printed  in  the  Hoosier  Farmer,  June  1966, 
and  was  given  by  Mrs.  Evelyn  Braun,  of  Dale,  Indiana 

Take  two  thirds  of  a  cup  of  water,  one  teacup  of 
sugar,  yolks  of  three  or  four  eggs,  grated  rind 
and  juice  of  one  lemon,  one  tablespoonful  of  corn- 
starch, and  combine  in  a  bowl.   (Beat  for  about  a 
minute  for  a  smoother  custard.) 

Line  a  pan  with  pie  crust.   Fill  the  pie  shell  with 
the  custard  and  bake  at  325  degrees  for  30  minutes. 

Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  mix 
in  three  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  and  spread  over 
pie.   Brown.   (Brown  meringue  for  2  to  4  minutes 
at  450  degrees) . 

NOTE:   When  pie  is  baking,  the  custard  bubbles  up 
to  the  top  of  the  crust,  so  build  up  the  crust  all 
around  pie,  to  keep  filling  from  spilling  over. 
A  double  fold  strip  of  foil  can  be  placed  around 
crust  to  keep  it  from  falling  over  during  baking. 
After  the  filling  bubbles  up  during  baking,  it  will 
fall  to  a  thin  layer  -  it  has  a  delicious  lemony 
flavor. 


SALLY  LUNNS 

2  pounds  of  flour  ) 

2  oz.  of  butter   )   Mix  together 

1  oz.  of  sugar    ) 

4  tablespoons  of  yeast,  mixed  with  a  little  warm 
water,  set  the  yeast  to  rise,  when  it  rises  a 
little,  beat  up  with  a  gill  of  cream  and  some 
milk,  (or  all  milk  and  the  yolks  of  4  eggs). 
Warm  this  a  little,  add  to  it  the  dough  and 
work  it  all  together,  the  dough  must  not  be 
quite  so  stiff  as  bread  dough.   Mould  it  with 
your  hands  in  small  round  cakes,  lay  them  on  a 
baking  pan  to  rise,  in  a  warm  place;  bake  them 
in  not  too  hot  an  oven.   They  will  take  about 
an  hour,  and  are  eaten  cut  up  and  buttered. 
After  they  are  buttered,  they  should  be  closed 
and  returned  to  the  oven  for  a  minute  or  two. 

--Hilda  Taylor,  Lincoln  City, 
*2   oz.  butter  =  4  tablespoons 
1  oz.  sugar   =  2  tablespoons 
4  tablespoons  yeast  =  2  cakes 
gill  of  cream  s  1/2  cup 
temperature  -  400-425  degress,  for  25-30  minutes. 


LEMON  PIE 

Mix  in  sauce  pan  1  and  1/2  cups  sugar 

5  and  1/3  tablespoons  corn  starch 
1  and  1/2  cups  hot  water 
Cook  till  mixture  thickens  and  boil  1  minute. 
Beat  1/2  cup  of  hot  mixture  into  3  egg  yolks 
slightly  beaten,  then  beat  into  hot  mixture  in 
sauce  pan.   Cook  1  minute  longer,  stirring 
constantly.   Blend  in  3  tablespoons  butter, 
4  tablespoons  lemon  juice,  1  and  1/3  tablespoons 
grated  lemon  rind.   Pour  into  baked  pie  shell. 

Cover  with  Meringue: 

3  egg  whites  beaten  until  frothy 

1/4  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar. 

Gradually  beat  in  6  tablespoons  sugar.   Continue 

beating  until  stiff  and  glossy. 

--Geneva  Suhrheinrich 


-- 

BUTTER-SCOTCH  CANDY 

Two  cupfuls  of  sugar,  2  cupfuls  of  dark  molasses, 
1  cupful  of  cold  butter,  grated  rind  of  a  half  a 
lemon.   Boil  over  a  slow  fire  until  it  hardens  when 
dropped  in  cold  water.   Pour  thinly  into  tins  well 
buttered,  and  mark  into  little  inch  squares,  before 
it  cools. 

FRUIT  COOKIES 

One  cupful  and  a  half  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  butter, 
one  half  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  one  egg,  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  a  teaspoonful  of  grated 
nutmeg,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  currants  or  chopped 
raisins.   Mix  soft,  and  roll  out,  using  just  enough 
flour  to  stiffen  sufficiently  (about  5  cupfuls). 
Cut  out  with  a  large  cutter,  wet  the  tops  with  milk, 
and  sprinkle  sugar  over  them.   Bake  on  greased  tins 
in  a  quick  oven  (400-425  degrees).   Fruit  can  be 
left  out  if  you  prefer.   Makes  about  100  cookies. 

SPICED  CRAB  APPLES 

Peel  and  halve  9  pounds  of  crab  apples.   Add  4 
pounds  of  sugar,  1  pint  of  vinegar,  1  teaspoonful 
of  cloves  (whole  cloves),  3  or  4  sticks  of  cinnamon 
and  mace.   Let  it  boil  one  half  hour,  or  less  if 
they  grow  too  soft. 

HOE  CAKES 

2  cupfuls  cornmeal 

1/2  teaspoon  salt 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  bacon  fat 

or  other  shortening 
1  cup  hot  water 
1  and  1/2  cupful  cold  water  (about) 

Mix  salt  in  cornmeal,  pour  on  hot  water,  then  add 
enough  cold  water  to  thin  the  mush  so  it  pours  slow 
out  of  the  bowl.   Add  fat.   Drop  mush  by  spoonfuls 
on  a  hot  griddle  or  skillet.   Turn  on  both  sides  till 
brown. 

Hoe  cakes  were  cooked  in  the  fire  place,  on  hot  coals, 
or  on  a  hot  shovel  in  the  fireplace. 


MOLASSES  COOKIES 

Mix  together  1  cup  sugar,  1  cup  molasses,  1  cup 

butter  or  lard 

Then  add: 

4  tablespoons  vinegar 

2  teaspoon  soda  in  vinegar 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

2  teaspoon  ginger 
1  teaspoon  nutmeg 
1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Work  in  enough  flour  to  make  a  stiff  dough  that 
can  be  rolled. 

--Anna  Herron 


APPLE  PUDDING 

Fill  the  bottom  of  the  baking  dish  with  small 
pieces  of  dry  bread,  slice  some  apples  and  put  a 
thick  layer  of  fine  slices  on  the  bread.   Put  sugar, 
small  pieces  of  butter  and  a  little  cinnamon  over 
the  apples  and  then  another  layer  of  bread.   Proceed 
as  at  first  till  your  dish  is  full,  finishing  with 
a  thin  layer  of  bread  crumbs.   Pour  on  enough  water 
to  keep  from  drying  out  and  bake  until  the  apples 
are  cooked.   It  can  be  served  without  sauce,  but 
is  good  with  cream. 

(For  3  slices  of  toasted  bread,  use  about  1/2  cup 
sugar,  and  from  1/2  to  1  cup  water.) 

--Mary  L.  Atwood 


JAM  PUDDING 

One  egg,  three  quarters  cup  of  sugar,  three 
tablespoons  of  melted  butter,  or  sour  milk,  large 
cup  of  flour  (1  standard  measuring  cup)  one-half 
cup  of  jam,  spices  to  taste  (cinnamon  and  nutmeg 
preferred,  about  1/2  teaspoon  each)  ,   o»e  half 
teaspoon  of  soda.   Bake  (350  degrees  35  to  45 
minutes)  and  serve  with  any  sauce. 

— Mrs.  W.  L.  Sullivan 


5 

JAM  CAKE 

1/2    cup   shortening 

1  cup  sugar 

1/2  cup  jam  (choice  of  jam,  jelly  or  preserves  - 
strawberry  preferred) 

2  eggs 

2  and  1/2  cup  flour  (before  sifting) 

1  teaspoon  soda 

Pinch  of  salt  (if  butter  is  not  used) 

1/2  teaspoon  cinnamon 

1/2  teaspoon  allspice 

Cloves  or  nutmeg  if  desired  (sparingly) 

1  cup  cold  coffee 

1/2  cup  nuts  or  raisins  may  be  added  if  desired 

Cream  shortening,  sugar  and  jam.   Add  eggs  and  mix 
well.   Sift  dry  ingredients  together  adding  alternately 
with  coffee.   Pour  into  2-9  inch  pans  or  sheet  cake 
pans.   Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  (350  degrees)  35  to 
40  minutes  or  until  cake  springs  back  when  touched. 
Use  a  caramel  icing. 

--Mrs.  Glenn  (Freda)  Schroder 


PECAN  PIE 

Cream  together  1/2  cup  butter  and  1/2  cup  sugar. 
Add  3  eggs,  beaten  with  1/4  teaspoon  salt.   Mix 
well  and  stir  in  1  cup  pecans,  1  teaspoon  vanilla, 
add  1  cup  dark  corn  syrup.   Bake  in  crust  in 
moderate  oven  (350  degrees  for  45  minutes). 

--Mrs.  Abner  (Aria)  Crews 


QUEENS  PUDDING 

1  pint  bread  crumbs,  one  quart  milk,  warm  and  pour 
over  the  crumbs,  yolks  of  4  eggs,  well  beaten  with 
1  cup  sugar,  and  one  teaspoon  of  butter.   When  baked 
spread  over  the  top,  a  layer  of  jelly  or  preserves. 
Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  add  2  tablespoons  of 
sugar  and  spread  over  the  top.   Bake  a  light  brown, 
serve  warm  with  sauce  or  cold  with  sugar  and  cream. 

Mrs.  Joseph  Wiebe 
Lincoln  City,  Indiana 


CHESS  PIE 

One  cup  of  sugar,  one  tablespoon  of  butter,  two 
eggs  beaten  separately.   Flavor  with  vanilla. 
Make  rich  pastry  for  bottom  crust.   Bake  350 
degrees  for  45  minutes. 

— Mrs.  M.  W.  Foster 


OLD  FASHIONED  CREAM  PIE 

Pour  3  and  1/2  cups  of  cream  upon  1  and  1/4  cups 
of  sugar;  let  it  stand  until  the  whites  of  3  eggs 
have  been  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth;  add  this  to  the 
cream,  and  beat  thoroughly;  grate  a  little  nutmeg 
over  the  mixture,  and  bake  it  without  an  upper 
crust.   If  a  tablespoon  of  sifted  flour  is  added 
to  it,  as  the  other  custard  pie  recipes,  it  would 
improve  it.   (Use  favorite  pastry  for  1  crust  pie), 


GOOSEBERRY  COBBLER 

Take  2  cups  of  flour,  4  tablespoons  melted  lard 
(or  shortening),  1/4  teaspoon  salt,  1  teaspoon 
baking  powder;  mix  as  for  biscuits,  with  sweet  milk 
about  5  to  6  tablespoons.   Roll  dough  thin,  and 
line  a  pudding  dish  or  9x9  inch  pie  pan.  Mix  3 
tablespoons  flour  and  2  of  sugar  together,  and 
sprinkle  over  the  crust;  then  pour  in  3  pints  goose- 
berries (or  a  pound  can  of  gooseberries),  and 
sprinkle  over  them  1  and  1/4  cups  sugar.   Wet  the 
edges  of  bottom  crust  in  a  little  flour  and  water 
mixed,  put  on  upper  crust,  press  the  edges  together, 
make  2  openings  by  cutting  2  incisions  at  right 
angles  an  inch  in  length  in  top,  and  bake  in  a 
quick  (375  degrees)  oven  for  half  an  hour. 

One  of  Lincoln's  favorite  songs  was 
"The  Turbaned  Turk"  -  the  first  verse: 
The  turbaned  Turk 
That  shuns  the  world 
And  struts  about 
With  his  whiskers  curled. 
--From  "Abe  Lincoln  of  Pigeon  Creek" 


The  recipes  contained  in  the  Lincoln  Land 
Cook  Book  were  collected  and  tested  by  the 
Consumer  Service  Department  of  SIGECO.   Some 
of  the  recipes  were  favorite  dishes  of  President 
Abraham  Lincoln  and  others  were  handed  down 
as  being  representative  of  his  era. 

The  Lincoln  Land  Cook  Book  is  the  second 
in  a  series  of  collected  recipes  from  the  many 
interesting  and  senic  areas  of  Southern  Indiana 
to  be  published  by  SIGECO. 


YOUR  ENERGY  COMPANY 
SERVING  SOUTHERN  INDIANA 
SIGECO 


Southern  Indiana  Gas  and  Electric  Company 
Evansville,  Indiana 


