



































ese Bt 
MNO caant eemeometpen ne Eset 





FV eae eae te tN EEE cE RN RC EE A NII OS IB ARE 


othe rook ‘ 


“ 
apie ae 
baat 
f P RTH E 








"Wherein the whole A R T is revealedina 
mote eafie and perfect Method, than hath 
* been publitht in any language. 


| Expert Pal ready Ways for the Dreffing of all Sorts 
of FLESH, FOWL, and FISH, with variery of 
SAUCES proper for each of thems and how to 
‘raife all manner of Paftes ; the beft Direétions for 
all fortsof Kickshaws, alfo the Terms of CAR- 
VIN Gand SEWING. 


An exact account ofall Dafhes - for all Seafons of he 
Year, with other A- la-mode Curtofities 


The Fifth Edition,with large Additions throughout os ‘ 


Keni bra ON eee 
> ~ 
2 wee 
. ee at F - ee 
3*)) Sepia Be. ae: 
bare r3 An eae 
i, e 
ae ; 
\ 
\ 









the whole worl: befides two hundred Figures of | - 8 





feveral Forms for all manner of bak’d Meats, 


- Ceither Flefh, or Fifh) as, Pyes Tarts, Cuttards; | 
Cheelecakes, and Florentines, placed in ie | 


and directed to the Pages they appertain to. 





eae 


Approved by the fifty five Yeats Experience andIn-| 


duftry of ROBERT M AY, in his Atten- 
dance on feveral Perfons of great Honour. 


London, Printed for Obadiah Blagrave at hee Beay sid 
| Star i in St. Paals C hurch- Lard, ee aa 


Aisling nitrile oy 


seuhiiee—serx 


, 
4 


? 
} 
ek 
“a 
4 


ee) eee 








isis BeER: Sunnanee 
% sig! Right Raita hTe my Lord — 





Montague, My Lord Lumley, 
and my Lord Dormer ; and to the 


Raght mor|bipfiul one K ene elme. 


Wity, 5 fo well known to this 


Nation fark their Admired Hofpi- - 


_talities. 


Right Horo dbl aad Right Worlhinful, 


E is an Alien, ameer Stranger in Exgland, 


that hath not been acquainted with your 
-generous Houfe-keepings ; formy own 
part my more particular tyes of fervice to you 
my Honoured Lords, have built me upto the 
height of this: Experience, for which this Book 


now at laft dares appear to the World; thofe | 


--timeswhith I tended upon your Honours were 


thofe Golden Days of Peace and Hofpitality 
when you enjoyed yourown, fo as tO entertain 
and releive others. 
Right Honourable, and Right Worfhipful, I 
have not only beenan eye- witnefs, but intereft- 


A er Beane ‘ 
x - ry t>* 
: ticks 
2 4 ee Fo 
4 a 


be 





arm 





ed by my ‘attendance 3 fo asthat Imny juitly ac- 
knowledge thofe Triumphs and magnificent Tro-_ 
phies of Cookery that have adored your Ta- 
bles ; nor can I but confefs to the world, except 
T fhould be Guilty of the higheft Ingratitude,that _ 
the only ftructure of this my Artaid knowledge, 
Lowed to your cofts, generous /and inimitable — 
Epences; thusnot only I havederived my ex- 
perience, but your Country hath reaptthe Plen- — 
ty of your Humanity and charitible Bounties. 
Right Honourable, and Right Worfhipful, 
. Hofpitality which was. oncea’ Relique of the 
Gentry, and a known Cognyance toallaneient 
Houfes, hath loft her Title shrough the tthap- 
py and Cruel Difturbances of thefe Times, fhe 
isnow repofing of her lately fo alarmed Head 
on your beds of Honour: {Iu the mean. {pace that 
‘our Englith World may know the Mecenas-and 
Patrons of thisGenerous Art, I have expofed 
this Volume to the Publick, under the ‘Tuition | 
of your Names; at whofe Feet! proftrate thefe 
Endeavours, and fhall for ever remain, »fo;) 
Se thl 3p NTOT 
Lour moft humble dewo- 
From Soleby iz na Hs ied Seruas 
Leicefterfhire, ROBERT.MAYL. 
September 29, 1684, a hla | cre 


vw 
cy F F . 
svisioy bog 





To the Mater Cooks, and to fuch young Prafitioners 
of the Art of Cookery, to whon this Book may be 
ufefil, 


‘La you firft,moft worthy Artifts,I acknowledg one 
of the chief Motives that made me to adventure 
this Volume to your Cenfures, hath been to teftifie my 
gratitude to-your experienced Society ; nor could! o- 
mit to direét it to you,as it hath been my ambition,that 
you fhould be fenfible Of my Proficiency of Endeavours 
in this Art. Toall honeft well intending Men of our 
Profeffion,or others,this Book cannot but be acceptable, 
as it plainly and profitably difcovers the My/fery of the 
whole Art; for which, though] may be exwted by fome 
that only value their private Interefts above Pofterity, and 
the publick good,yet God and my own Confcience would 
not permit me to bury thefe my Experiences with my Sil- 
ver Hairs 1m the Grave: and that more efpecially, as the 
-advantages of my Education hath raifed me above the 
Amlitions of others, in the converfe Thave had with 
other MWatzons,who in this Art fall fhore of what I dave 
known experimented by you my worthy Gountry men How- 
foever,the French by their Infinuations not without enough 
of Ignorance, have bewitcht fome of the Gallazts of our 
“Wation with Epigram Dithes,{moakt rather than dreft, 
fo ftrangely to captivate the Guffo, their Mujhroom’d 
Experiences forSauce rather thanDiet,for the generality 
‘how foever called A-la-mode not worthy of being taken 
notice on. AsLlive in France, andhad the Language | 
_and have been an eye-witnels of their Gookerics as well, 
as.a Perufer‘of their Manufcripts, and Printed Authors 
whatfoever I: found good inthem, I have inferted in 
this Volume. Udoacknowledg my felf not to bea little 


behold, 





ne ab eee | —— oe | gh Ds er x | sr? 
. " oa 
° ‘ — ROS oe 5 a 
ee ree tas pan Lie LY OR aie arte eet we Mpeg ai 12 
The Preface. Ay 


beholding to the Italzan and Spanih Treatifes; though 
without my fofterage,and bringing up under the Genero-_ 
ities and Bounties of my Noble Patrons and Mafters, 1 
could never have arrived to this Experience: To be 
confined and limited to the narrownefs of a Purfe, is 
to want the Marerzals from whicl the Artz? mutt gain 
his knowledge. Thofe Honourable Perfonsny Lord Lum- 
ley, and others, with: whom I have {pent a part of my 
time, were fuch whofe generous coft never weighed 
the Expence, {fo that they might arrive-to that right 
and high efteem they had of their Gu/fo's..Whofoever 
perufesthis Volume fhall find it amply exemplified in 
Difhes of {ach high prices, which only-thete. Wobleffes 
Hofpitalities did reach to: I fhould have finned againft 
their(to be perpetuated) Bounties, if I had norfet down 
their feveral varieties, that the Keader might be as well 
acquainted with what is extraordinary,as: wliat is ordi- 
nary in this: Art; as 1am truly fenfible; that. fome of 
 thofe things that I have fet down willbamaze a not-tho- 
row-paced Reader in the Art of Gookery, asthey are De- 
licates, never till this time made known tothe World. 
_- Fellow Gsoks, that I might givea teftimony tomy 
Cowntrey of the landablene|s of our Profeffion, that I might 
encourage young Undertakers to make.a Progrefs in 
the Praéttice of this Art,I have laid open thefeExperiences, 
as I was moft unwilling to hide my Talent, but have 
ever endeavoured to do good to others; lacknowledge 
that there hath already been jeweral Books publifbt, and 
amongft the -reft fome out of the Evench, for ought I 
could perceive to very little purpofe, empty and unpro- 
fitable Lreatifes, of as- little ufe as fome Niggards Kat- 
chens, Which'the Reader in refpe & of the:confufion of 
the Methoc,or barrennefs of thofe Avthors-experience, 
hath rather been puzled then profited by ;..as thofeal- 





"The Preface. 


ready extant Authors have trac’t but one common bea- 
ten Road, repeating for the main what others have in 
the fame homely manner done before them: It hath 
been my task to denote fome new Faculty or Science,that 
others have not yet difcovered ; this the Reader will 

uickly difcern by thofe xew Terms of Art which he 
thall meet withal throughout: this whole Volume. Some 
things I haye, inferted. of Garving and Sewing. that I 
might demonttrate the whole Art. In the contrivance 
of thefemy labours, I have fo managed them for the 
general good, that thofe whofe Purfes cannot reachto 
the coft of rich Dithes,I have defcended to their meaner 
Expences, that they may give, though upona fudden 
Treatment, to their Kindred, Friends, Allies and Ac- 
quaintance, a handfome and relifhing entertainment in 
all feafons of the year, though at fome diftance from 
Towns or Villages. Nor have my ferious confiderations 
been wanting amongtt direction for Diet how to order 
what belongs to the fick,as wellas to. thofe that. are in 
health; and withal my care hath been fuch, that inthis 
Book as in a Clofet,is contained all fuch Secrets as ‘relate 
to Preferving ,Conferving Gandying, Dialling, and {uch 
rare varieties as the y are moft concern d in the deft hus- 
bandring and hufrifering of them. Nor is there any 
Book except that of the Queens Clofet, which was fo 
envicht with Receipts prefented to her Majefty, as yet — 
that I ever faw in any Lazguage,that ever contained fo 
many profitable Experiences, as in this Volume: in all 
which the Reader thall find moft of the Compofitions,and 
mixtures eafie to be prepared, moft pleafing to the Pa- 
late, and not too chargeable to the Purfe; fince you 
are at liberty to employ as much or as little therein as 
you pleafe. Behe } 
_...In this Edition Ihave enlarged the whole Wor and - 
eek Nii | there 














“ThePre uce. 








there isadded two hundred feveral Fhe: of all ‘ie 


of Pies, Tarts, Custards, Pele ec. more than | 
was in the. former: You will find them in Tables dire@- 


ed to the Folzo they have relationto; there being fuch | 
variety of Forms, the Artifts may ule which of them | 


they pleafe. 


‘Tris impoffible for any Author to pleafe all pecs! | 


no more than the beft Cook can fancy their Palats | 
‘whofe Mouths are always out of tafte, As for thofe | 


who make it their bufinefs to hide their Candle under | 
a Buthel, to do only’ good to themfelves, and not to o- | 


thers, fich as ap me for revealing the Secrets of | 


this Art, I value the difcharge of my own Confcience, | 


in doing ‘Good above all their malice; protefting to the | 


svhole world, that I havenot apeenea any matertal Se- | 
cret of above: ny fifty and five years Expertence, my Fa- | 
ther derieg a Caok under whom in my Child-hood I was | 


‘bréd’up in this Art. 
To San the diligent Ereiae: of this Volume gains 


ticebip with {ome Majfters could never have taugh 


aed ina {n | time(as to the Theory) which an Appren- | 


them. [have no moreto do,but to defire of God ablef- | 


fing upon thefe my Endeavours, and remain. 


‘Sholeby in Leicefier- ~~ Yours in the moft ingenious 


thire,Sepr.30.1664. ways ‘A asic 


ROBERT MAY. 


A fhort 








ag Naat ne en la Ree 
oie The Exact Ways. 2 











A frort Narrative of fome Paffages of the Authors 


Life. 


Rok the better knowledge of the worth of this 
Book, though it be not ufual, the duthor being li- 
ving, it will not be amifs to acquaint the Reader with 
a breifaccount of fome paflages of his Life, as alfo zhe 
eminent Perfons ( renowned for their Houfe-keeping) 
whom he hath ferved through the wholeferies of his 
Life; foras the growth of Children argue the {trength 
ofthe Parents, fo doth the judgment and abilities of 
the Artift conduce to the making and goodnefs of the 
Work : now that fuch great knowledge in this com- 
mendable Art was not gained but by long experience, 
practife, and converfe with the moft able men in their 
times, the Reader in this breif Narrative may be infor- 


‘med ‘by what fteps and degrees he afcended to the 


farneii.7.5 : 


“He was born in the year of our Lord 1588. HisFa- 


ther being “one of the ableft Cooks in his time, and his 


firft: Tutor in the knowledge and practice of Cookery; — 


‘under: whom having attained to fome perfection in this 
Art, the old Lady Dormer fent him over into France, 
where he continued five years, being in the Family of 
-anoble Peer,‘and firft Prefident of Paris ; wherehe 
-gained not only the’ French Tongue bur alfo bettered 
vhis Knowledge ir his Gookery, and returning again in- 
to Kagland,was bound’ an Apprentice in Lordox to Mr. 
Arthue® Hollinfworth’ in Newgate Market, one of the 
-ableft Work-men in’ London, Cook'!to the Grocers 
Hall and ‘Star Chamber. His Apprentifhip being out, 
the Lady Dormer feat for him to be her Cook pr 
ieee ca 8 His 


es 


= 


& 


MM 





"Fhe Author's Tafe. : 

_ Father ( who then ferved that Honourable Lady | 
~ where were four Cooks more, fuch Noble Houfe: 
were then kept, theglory of that, and the fhame of this 
-prefent Age; then weré thofe Golden Days where 
were practifed the Triumphs and Trophies of Gookery: 
then was Hofpitality, efteemed, Neighbourhood pre 
ferved, the Poor cherifhed, and God honoured: thet 
was Religion lefs talkt on,and more praétifed;then was 
Atheifm &Schilm lefs in fafhion: then did men ftrive tc 
be good, rather then to feem fo.Here he continued til 
the Lady Dormer died, and then went again to London 
and ferved the Lord Ca/tlehaven, after. that the Lorc 
Lumley, that great lover and. knower-of Art,who wan: 
ted no knowledge in the difcerning this myftery 5 next 
‘the Lord Moxtague in Sufex 5 and at the beginning ot 
| thefe wars, the Countefs of Kent, then Mr. Aével ot 
‘Griffen Temple in Effex, whofe Anceftors the Szzzth: 
(Cof whom he is defcended.) were the greateft main. 
tainersof Hofpitality in all chofe parts;nor doth the pre 
| fent M..Nevel degenerate from their laudable examples 
Divers other Perfons of like -efteem and quality hatt 
he ferved 5 asthe Lord Revers, Mr. John Alhburnam of 
‘the Bed-Chambers,Dr. Steed in Kent,Sir Thomas Stile: 
of Drury Lane in London, Sir Marmaduke Conftable in 
York hire, Sir Charles Lucas and Jaftly the;Right 

- sHonourable the Lady Eaglefield, where he now liveth, 
_ .. ‘Thus have. I given you.a: breif account of his Life 
J fhall next tell you in what high efteem thisnoble Art 
“was with the Ancient Romans: Plutarch reports,’ that 
Lucullus his ordinary diet was fine. dainty difhes, with 
“works of paftry, banketting difhes, and fruit curionfly 
“wrought and prepared; that his Table might be fur- 

~- nifhed with choice of varieties, (as the noble Lord 
Lvaley did.) that he kept ;and” nourished all man- 

7 | ha: Tet 








OB pei 
r Pe alt Se 
Sees) Ae” ‘ 













t% 





1G) OBR chine oa Viena) eg 
fpf” panto 
iy iG Z eS ae At , 





ra] 
pei SEE 


snail ite Reel a Seem chia ete — a SmaanerETe  anmmemeiaiaada: ete 
4 <The Aninor’s Lifesa 3 80 00 2 
cof , 


‘hus ‘aftory how Pompey. being fick, the “Phyfitians 
led him to eat a Thruth, and ic being {aid there was — 
me to be had, becaufe it was then Summer; it was 
fwered they might have them atLacallusshoufewho 
spt both Thrufhes and all manner of Fowl, allthe 
ar long. This Lwucullus was for his Hofpitaliry foe- 
2emed in Rome, that there was no talk, but of his 
loble Houfe-keeping. The faid Plutarch reports how 
iceroand Pompey inviting themfelves to fup with him. 
1ey wouldnot let him {peak with his men to provide 
xy thing more then ordinary; but he telling chem he 
‘ould fup in Apollo, (a Chamber fo named, and every 
shamber proportioned their expences ) he by this wile 
eguil’d them, and a fupper was made ready eftimated _ 
t fifty thoufand pence, every Rowan penny being fe- 
en pence half penny Exgli/h money ; a vatt fum for 
nat Age, before the Indies had overflowed Exrope. 
ut Lhave too far digreffed from the Author of whom 
might fpeak much more as in relation to his Perfon 
nd abilities, but who will cry out the Sun fhines ? this 
lready faid is enough to fatisfie any but the malicious, 
vho are the greate{t enemies to all honeft endeavours. © 
Homer had his Zozlus, and Virgil his Bavius; the beft 
Wits have had their detractors, and the greateft Ar- 
ifts have been maligned; the beft on’t is, fuch Works 
s thefe outlive their Authors with an honurable re{peét 
of Pofterity, whilft envious Criticks never furvive 
heir own happinefs, their Lives going out like the 
nuff of a Candle. ; 


Lrinmphs, 


owl all the year long. To “this purpofe he tel: : ei 

















f 
| 


| 


Lrinmphs and Trophies in Cookery, to be ufed 





ae La 4 


F t F q 
7 t2\ we 
fA ind 


_ fitval Times, as Twelfth-day, eee 
Note likenefS of a Ship in Pafte-board, wit 

LY § Flags and Streamers, the Guns belonging to it ¢ 
Kickfes, bind them about, with packthread, and cove 


’ 
q 


them with clofe pafte proportionable to the fafhion.c 


a Cannon with Carriages, lay them in places conven 


entas you fee them in Ships of war,with {uch holes an 


trains of powder that they may all take Fire; Plac 
your Ship firmin the great Charger; then make 
fale round aboutit, and ftick therein egg-fhells full-c 
{weet water, you may bya great Pin takeallthe mea 
cout of the egg by blowing, and then fill} icup with th 
-rofe-water, then in another Charger have the propor 
tion of a Srag made of courfe pafte,witha broad Arrov 
inthe fide of him, and his body filled up with claret 
wine; inanother Charger at the end of the Stag hav: 
the proportion ofa Caftle with Battlements, Portcul 
dices, Gates and Draw-Bridges made of Paft-board,thi 


Guns and Kickfes, and covered with courfe pafte as th 
former ; place it at a diftance from the fhipto fire a 


each other. ‘The Stag being placed betwixt them witl 
egg {hells fall of {weet water (as before) placed in falt 
_. At each fide of the Charger wherein pete Stag, place 


a Pye made of courte pafte,in one of which ler there be 
fome live Frogs, in each other fome live Birds; make 
thefe Pyes of courfe Pafte filled with bran, and_yel 
lowed over with faffron of the yolks of eggs,guild ther 
over in {pots , as alfo the Stag, the Ship, and Caftle: 
bake them, and place them with guilt bay-leaves or 
turrets and tunnels of the Caftle and Pyes ; i 

Ke 


Triumphs and Trophies. 
ked, make a hole in the bottom of your pyes, take out 
the bran, put in your Frogs,and Birds, and clofeup the 
holes with the fame courfe pafte, then cut the Lids 
neatly up ; Tobe taken offthe Tunnels ; being all pla- 
céd in order upon the Table, before you fire the trains 
of powder, order it fo that fome of the Ladies may be 
perfwaded to pluck the Arrow out of the Stag; then 
will the Claret-wine follow, as blood that runneth out 
ofa wound. This being done with admiration to the 
beholders, after fome fhort paufe, fire the train of the 
Caftle, that the ek all of one fide may go off, then 
firethe Trains of one fide of the Ship asin a battel 5 
next turn the Chargers; and by degrees fire the trains 
of each other fide as before. This done,to fweeten the 
ftink of powder, let the Ladies take the egg-fhells full 
of fweet waters and throw them ateach other. All 
dangers tbeing feemingly over, by this time you may 
fuppofe fhey will defire to fee what is in the pyes ; 
where liting firft the lid offone pye, outskip fome 


Frog s, which make the Ladies toskipand fhreek; next 
after the other pye, whence come out the Birds, who” 
by a natural inftinét flying inthe light, will puc out 


the Candles; fo that what with the flying Birds 


and skipping Frogs, the one above, the other beneath, 


will caufe much delight and pleafure to the whole com- 
we at length the Candles are lighted, and a banquet 
_broughtin,theMufick founds, and every one with much 
‘delight and content rehearfes their actions in the for- 

mer paflages. Thefe were formerly the delights of the 
Nobility,before good Houfe-keeping had lett Ezeland, 
and the Sword really acted that which was only coun- 
terfei ted in fuch honeft and laudable Exercifesas thefe. 


Oz 
t 














ae nae, - 

marie ih Ss 0 aa a ate 

= ad, this eae = a ni 

ca \ % 4 7 = >» FN -’ = Ole ke 

= ag ve SRR ae Bt eee iS 4 

aR . ae a se Sel ot ge a te 
J (eS Ly ee het co Ae 

- gs a = oF  - 
s off 

Lx Aft 

ae i 





Satis his Motto, where nothing exceeds, 





iD wit aus atts alia wre etre otis wid ele 


Be Ba AB RS. PRET AR: spigaeaaes 


On the Unparalell d Piece of Mr. 
as ~ May His Cookery. 


GEe a a work fet forth of fuch perfection, = > 
Will praife ic felf, and doth not ‘beg: Protection 
From flatter‘d greatnels. Induftry and‘pains) © 
For gen’ral good, his aim, his Countrey gains 5 | 
Which ought re{pect him. A good rene Cook, 
Excellent Modifh Monfieurs, and that Book — 


Call’ Perfet& Cook, Merete’s Paftery 


Tranflated, looks like old hang’d Tapiftry, 

The wrong fide outwards : fo Monfieur adieu, 
I’m for our Native Mays Works rare and new, 
Who with Antique could have prepar’d and dref 


~The Nations gaondam grand Imperial Feaft, 
- Which that thrice Crown’d Third Edward: did ordain 
For his high Order, and their Noble Train, - | 


Where on St. George his famous Day was feen, 


A Court on Earth ‘that did all Courts out-fhine.. 


And how all Rarities and Cates might be 
Order d for a Renown’d Solemnity, ; 
Learn of this Cook, who with judgment, and a 
Teacheth for every Time, each thing its true Seafon3 3 
Making his Compounds with fuch harmony; 
Tafte fhall not charge with fuperioriry ’ | 
Of Pepper, Salt, or Spice, by the beft Pallat, 
Or any one Herb in his broths or Sallat.. 
Where Temperance and Difcretion guides his deedss 


Or 





—— 


eee 
Or ought to watt, for there’s good. Habandey 
To be obferv’d, as Art in Cookery. ° 
Which of the Mathematicks doth pert, 
Geometry proportions when they 
ho can in pafte erect ( of fineft flour ) 

A compleat Fort, a Caftle, or a Tower. 

A City Cuftard doth fo fubtly wind, 

That fhould Truth feek, fhe’d fcarce all corners finds 
Platform of Sconces, thac might Souldiers teach, 
To fortifie by works as well as Preach. 

Tle fay no more; for-asIam a finner,’. . . 

I’ve wrought my felf'a ftomach toa dinner. 

Inviting Poets-not to tantalize, — 

But feaft; (not furfeit ) here their Fantafies. 


‘ Fame Parry. 


To the Reader of c my very Bais | 
Friend y Mr. Robert May bis oe 
incomparab le Bookof C aokery. 


CF e he here’s.a Book fet forth with fach things i in t, + 

As former Ages never-faw in. Prints 

Something I’de write in praife on’t, but the Pen, 
Of Famous Sane or renowned Bez 
Tfunintomb’d might give this Book its due, 
By their high ftrains, and keep it always new. 
But I whofe ruder Stile could never clime, 
Or ftep beyond a home-bred Country Rhime, 
tii not attempt it: only this Tle fay, 

ato’s Res Ruftica’s far fhort se May. 





Here's. 







© The Book’s good, it cannot chufe but 











Here’s taught to keep all forts of flefhin date, 

All forts of Fith, if you will marinates. 

To candy, topreférve, to fouce, to pickle, ~ 

To make rare Sauces, both to pleafe, and tickle 

The pretty Ladies palats withdelight; 

Both how to glut, and gainan Appetite. === 

The Fritter, Pancake, Mufhroom ; with all thefe, 

"The curious Caudle made of Ambergriefe. - 

He is fo univerfal, helnotmifs, .  — 

The Pudding, nor Bolonian Saufages. | 

Italian, Spaniard, French, he all out-goes, » 

Refines their Kickfhaws, and their Olio’s, 

The rareft ufe of Sweet-meats, Spicery, - 

And all things elfe belong to Cookery: 

Not only this, but to give all content, 

Here’s all the Forms of every Implement _ 

To work orcarve with, fo hemakes the able 

To deck the Dreffer, and adornthe Table. 

What difh goes firft of every kind of Meat; 

And fo ye’re welcom, pray falltoo, and eat. © 

KReader,readon, for [have done rece ‘ i 
Cll. ae 


Thy well-aviftine Friend. 


> £ 


John Town. ~ 











ee te wird Bn ALR 


SARROO NUS 2588 BsBsniBia sie | 


T be moft Exath, or ela-mbae Ways 
oe ae and Seg. 





Terms 5 areas 


Pere stae deer: leach that brawn, rear ae soole, : 


lift that fwan,fauce that capon, {poil that hen, fru{t 
that chicken, unbrace that mallard, unlace that coney, 


difmember that hern, difplay that crane, disfigure that 


peacock, unjoynt that bittern,untach that curlew, allay 
that pheafant,wing that partridge, wing that quail,mince 
that plover,thigh that pidgeon, border thar pafty, thigh 
that woodcock ; thigh all manner of fmall birds. — - 


Timber the fire, tire that egg, chine that falmon, | 


fring that lamprey, :fplat that pike, fouce that plaice, 
fauce.that tench, {play that bream, fide that haddock, 
tusk that barbel, culpon that trour, fin that chivin,tran- 
fon that ee}, tranch that furgeon, undertranch: that 
porpus, tame that crab, barb that lobfter. 7 
a 

Firft, fer forth muftard and brawn, pottage, beck mut- 
_ton, ftewed pheafant, fwan, capon, pig, venifon, hake, 
cuftard, leach, lombard, blanchmanger, and jelly ; for 


‘ftandard, venifon, roatt kid, fawn, and coney, buftard, | 


ftork, crane, peacock with his tail, hern-fhaw, bittern, 
woodcock, partridge plovers,rabbits, great birds,larks 
doucers, pampuff, white leach, amber-jelly, cream of 
| B 2 almonds 











The Bxait Ways, 


‘ almonds, curlew, brew, fnite, quail, fparrow, marti 
net, pearch in ely, petty pervis, quince baked,leach, © 
dewgard, fruter fage, blandrellsor pippins with cara-_ 
ways in comfits, wafers, andIpocras. | 
Sauce for all manner of Fowls. Sa 
Muttard is good with brawn, Beef, Chine of Bacon, — 
and Mutton, V erjuyce good to boil’d Chickens and Ca- 
pons; Swan withChaldrons,Ribs of Beef withGarlick, 
-muftard, pepper,verjuyce, ginger; {auce of lamb,pig and 
fawn, muftard, and fugar ; to pheafant, partridge, and 
coney,iauce gamelins to. bern. ery PUP Oe and 
crane,brew,and curlew,falt,and fugar,and water of Ca- — 
‘mot, buftard, thovilland, and bittern, fauce gamelin ; 
woodcock, lapwhing, lark,quail, martinet, venifon and 
fnite with white falts {parrows and thrufhes with fale, 
and cinamon. Thus with all meats fauce fhall have 
the operation. | 


-Diredtions for the order of carving 


| | Fowl. ; 


. Lift that Swan, b 
"Fhe manner of cutting up a Swan muft be to flit hér 
right down in the middle of the breaft, and fo clean 
thorow theback from the neck tothe rump, {0 part 
her in two halves cleanly and handfomly,that you break 
“not nor tear the meat, lay che two halves ina fair char- 
ger with the flit fides downwards, throw falrabout ir, 
and fet icagainon' the Table. Let your fauce be chal-° 
dron for aSwan, and ferve it in faucers. . 
7 Rear the Goofe, % 
You mutt break a goofecontrary to the former way 


Take’ 





of Carving ana S cwing. | 


take a goofe being roafted,and take off both his legs fait 
like a fhoulder of Lamb,take him quite from the body 
then cut off thebellypieceround clofe to the lower endof 
the breaft:lace her down with your knife clean through 
the breaft on each fide your thumbs bredth for the bone 
in the middle of the breaft ; then take off the pinion of 
each fide,and the flefh which you firft lac’t with your 
knife, raife it up clear from the bone, and take ittrom 


the carcafe with the pinion;then cut up the bone which 


lieth before in the breaft(which iscommonly call’d the 
merry thought)che skin and the flefh being upon itsthen 
cut from the breft-bone,another flice of flefh clean tho- 
row,& take it clean from the bone, turn your carcafe, 
and cut it afunder the back-bone above the loin-bones: 
then take the rump-end of the back-bone,and lay it ina 
fair difhwiththeskinny-fide upwards,lay at the fore-end 
of that the merry-thought with the skin fide upward, 
and before that the apron of the goofe;then lay you pini- 


ons on each fide contrary,fet your legs on each fide. con-. 


trary behind them, thac the boneend of the legs may 


ftand up crofs inthe middle of the difh, & the wingpi- — C 


nions onthe outfide of them; put under che wing pini- 
ons on each fide the long flices of-flefh which you cut 
from the breaft bone,and let the ends meet under the leg 
bones, let the other ends lie cut in the the difh betwixt 
the leg and the pinion;then pour your fauce into the difh 
under your meat,throw on fale. and fet it on che table. 
To cut up a Turkey or Buftard. — | 


_ Raifeup the leg very fair,and open thejoynt with the . 


point of your knife,but take not off the leg ; then lace 
_ down the breaft with your knife on both fides,& open 
the breaft pinion with the knife,but take not the pinion 
offsthen raife up the merry-thought betwixt the breatt 
‘hone,and the top of A merry-thought, lace down ae 
net egaemn shia | fle 


aor aA 





Ta ¥) 
Cm 
~ ie ee tane . 


The Exat Ways 





flefh on both fides of the breaft-bone, atid raife up the’ 
- fleth called the brawn,turn it outward upon both fides, 
but break it not, nor cut it not off; then cut off the’ 
wing pinion at thejoynt next to the body, and ftick on 
each fide the pinion in the place where ye turned out the 
brawn, but cut off the fharp end of the Pinion, take the’ 
middle piece, and that will juft fit the place | 
You may cut up acapon or pheafant the fame way, 
but of your capon cut not off the pinion,but in the place’ 
where you put the pinion of the turkey, you i eet 
the gizard of your capon on each fide half sa 
eee Difmember that Hern, i 
Take off both the legs,and lace it down to the breaft’' 
with your knife on both fides, raife up the flefh,and take 
it clean off with the pinion ; then ftick the head in the’ 
_breaft,fer the pinion on the contrary, fide of the carcafe, 
and the leg on the other fide, fo that the bones ends may 
meet crofs over the carcafe, and the other wings crofs 


_ 
7 


over upon the top of the carcafe. | 
- ' Unbrace that Mallard. 0) 
Raife up the pinion and the leg, but take them not 
off, raife the merry-thought from the breaft, and lace 
_itdown on each fide of the breaft' with your knife,bend- 
ing to and fro like ways. » aT SEI S00 EO 


Unlace that Comey. e808 
Turn the back downwards,& cut the belly faps clean 
off from the kidney, but take heed you cut not the kid!’ 
ney nor the fleth,then‘put in the point of your knife be- 
tween the kidneys,’ and loofen the flefh from each fide 
the bone then turn-up the back of the rabbit, and cut” 
it crofs between the wings, and lace it down clofe by’ 
the bone with your knife on both fides, then open the’ 
flefh of che rabbit from the bone,with the point of your 
Knife againft thekidney, and pull the leg open foftly” 
eos (a Beas: with 


race? Gap etnies 


so” SP rR 


of Carving and Sewing. 


with your hand,but apm it not off,then thruft in your 
knife betwixt the ri sand the kidney, flit it out, and 
lay the legs clofe together. 

te Sauce that Gapon, ’ : 

Lift up the right leg and wing,and fo array forth,and 
lay him in the platter as he fhould fly,and fo ferve him. 
Know that capons or chickens be arrayed after one 
fauce ; the chickens fhall be fauced with green fauce or 
veriuyce.  Allay that Pheafant.. 

Take a pheafant,raife his legs and wings as it were a 
hen and no fauce but only fale. | 

: ing that Partvidg, 

- Raife his legs, and his wing as a hen, if you mince 
him fauce him with wine,powder of ginger,and falt,and 
fet him upon a chafing difh of coals to warm and ferve. 

6 oo Wing that Quail. ie 

Take a quail and raife his legs and his wings as an 

hen, and no fauce but fale... 3 
Difplay that Grane. 

Unfold his Legs, and cur off his wings by the joynts, 
then take up his wings and his legs,and {auce them with 
powder of ginger, muftard, vinegar, and falc. 
jhe Difmember that Hera. 

Raife his legs and his wings'asa crane,and {auce him 
with vinegar, muftard, powder of ginger and fale. 

 —- Unjoynt that Bittern, 

Raife his legs & wings asa heron & no fauce but fale. 

: Break that Egript. 

Take an egript, and raife his legs and his wings asa. 
heron, and no {fauce but falc. | 

| Untach that Curlew. 

~Raife his legs and wings as a hen,& no fauce but falt. 

| Untach that brew 

-Raife his legs and his wings inthe fam2 manner, and 
no fauce but only fal. B 4 | Unlace 






~ 0. Unlace that Coney, | | 

i a on the back, and cut away ie Poors, Bw 
raife the wings and the fides, and lay bulk, chine, and 
fides together,fauce them with vinegar and yo of 


ginger. r 
‘Break that ie af 
Take a farcel or teal,and raife his wings and his les | 
and no fauce but only. fale. 
Mince.that Plover. : 
Raile his leg and wings asa hen,and no fauce but ¢ on- 
ly fale. at 
A Snite. 
Raife his legs, wings and his thoakersas a pbb gat | 


no :fauce but tales oe) 
high that Wondentler 
-~Raife eins less fe a hen, and dight his rae: 


The Sewing of Fip 


The Firft Gourfe. | 
EO go to the fewing of Fith, Mutculade,Minews in 
“few of porpos or of falmon, bak’d herring with 
fu ar, green fith pike, lamprey; falent, Porpos ee 
ss dgurnet and baked lamprey. ~~ 
3 The Secon Conrfe. ‘ 
j elly ae ad red, dates in confeét, copie hatte 
irt, doréy, turbut holibut for ftandard, bace, trout, 
mullet, chevin; {oles, lamprey roaft, and tench in jelly, : 


(: The Third Courfe. 

Freth fturgeon,bream,pearch in: iellyd jole a ater 
fturgeon,welks,apples and pears roafted; with fugar can- 
dy, figs of mo Spat rpc with noes d ginger, 
wafers, and einen Gl eeniyh aeahes 


2 “38 ik as fh ae 
ve: ied « \ .4 c i¢ . ‘ The. 


gee 





eee ee, 





of Carving and Sewing. : 





Sr ple 


The Garving of F 1h. ly | 
The carver of fifth mutt {ee to peafon and furmety,the 
tail and the liversyou mutt look if there be a {alt porpos 
or fole,turrentine,and do after the form of venifon; da-— 
ked Petre BY it whole on thetrencher,then whiteher- 
ring in a difh, open it by the back, pick out the bones 
and the row,and fee there be muftard.Of {alc fith,green- 
fifh,falc falmon,and conger,pare away the skin;falt fith, 
{tock fifth, marling, mackrel, and hake with butter, and 
take away the bones & skins; Pike,lay the wombupon 
a trencher,with pike fauce enough, falt Lamprey,gob- 
bin itin feven or eight pieces,and fo prefent it,d Plaice, 
put out the water; then crofs him with your knife,and 
caft on falt,wine,or ale. Bace,Gurnet,Rochet,Bream,Ghe- 
vin,Mullet, Roch, Pearch,Sole, Mackrel, Whiting, Had- 
dock, and Codling, raife them by the back,pick out the 
bones, and cleanie the reft in the belly. Carp Breawz, 
Sole,and Trout, back and belly together. Salzzon Conger, 
Sturgeon, Turbut, Thornbach Houndfih,and Holibut, cut 
them in the difhes ; the Porpos about,Tench in his fauce; 
cut two Eels, and Lampreys roaft, pull off the skin, and 
pick out the bones,put thereto vinegar, and powder. A 
Grab,break him afunder,ina difh make the fhell clean,& 
put in the ftuff again,temper it with vinegar, and pow-. 
der them,cover it with bread and heat it; a Crews dight 
him thus,part him afunder, {flit thebelly, and take out 
the fifh, pare away the red skin,mince it thin,put vinegar 
in the difh, and fet it on the Table without heating. 4 
- Fole of Sturgeon,cut itinto thin morfels, and lay it round 
about the dith, Fre Lamprey bak’d, openthe pafty,then 
take white bread,and cut it thin,lay icin a difh,& with a 
fpoon take out Galentine,& lay itupon the bread with 
red wine and powder of Cinamonsthen cuta gobbin of 
e rh gh a ae ev dene: Lam- 




















spite us M Cag AES Fea, TONS 
} oy ' y 7 tS yep 
- rae i 





SSicemees ick adigeds ~ - = — somes = Rien. 
e Exact Ways of Carving and Sewing. 


Nee 





Lamprey,mince it thin, and lay it in the Gallentine,and 
fet it on the fire to heat.  Freh herring, with falt and 
wine, Shrimps well pickled, Flounders,Gadgeons,Minews, 
and Muskles, Eels, and Lampreys, Sprats is’ good in’ 
few,mutculade in worts,oyfters in few,oyfters in gravy,’ 


~ minewsin porpus, falmon in jelly white and red, cream’ 


of almonds,dates in comfits,pears and_quinces in firrup,' 
with parfley roots, mortus of hound: fith raife ftanding. ' 


|) Sauces for Fiph Ve | 


Muftard is good for {alt herring, falt fith, fale conger; 
falmon, fparling,falt eel and ling; vinegar is good with - 
falt porpus,turrentine, {alt fturgeon, falt thirlepole, and 
falt whale,lamprey with gallentine ; verjuyce to roach, 
dace,bream, mullet,flounders,falt crab and chevin with’ 
powder of cinamon and ginger; green fauce is good: 
with green fifth and hollibut,cottel,and freth turbut;put 
not your green fauce away for it is good with muftard, 





Bills of FARE for every Seafon in the Veass al- 
fo howto fet forththe ME AT ix order for ‘hilt 
Service, as it was a i vie eee left this 


| Natioz. 


A Bill of Fare for All-Saints-Day, being Novemb. 1. _ 


| Oyfters. 

I eatin of brawn 

and muftard. 

2A Capon in ftewed broth 
“with mar: Ow- bones. . 

3 A Goofe in ftoffado, or 
two Ducks. 

4 Agrand Sallet. 

5 A pe of Mutton 
with oyfters 

6 A bis “dith baked. 

7 Aroaft chine of beef. > 


8 Minced pies or chewits of 


‘capon, tongue, or of veal. 
9 Achine of Pork. 


10 A fran of venifon.. 


4 i ran,or 2 geefe roaft. 

2 A loyn of veal. 
* A French Pie of di- 
vers compounds. 

14. Aroaft turkey. 

15 A pig roaft. 

16 A tc t difh baked. 

17. Two brangeefe roaft- 
ed, ‘one larded. 


18 Souc’t Veal. 


19 Two Capons roafted, 
one larded. 


20 A double bordered Cu- 
ftard. 


A fecond Gof the {ame 


Oranges and lemons. 
t A fouc’t pig. 


~ 2Ayoung lamb or kid roaft. 


3 Two ‘Shovelers, 
4 Two Herns, one larded. : 
5. A Potatoe Pye. 

* 6 Aduck and mallard, one. 
larded. . 
7, Afouc’t Turbut. . 
8 A couple of pheafants, 

one larded. 


_ 9 Marinated Carp ,, or 


Pike, or Bream. — 
10 Three ‘brace of par- 
‘tridg, three larded. 
11 Made Dith of Spinage 
cream baked. 

2A 








"Bill of 3 








12 A roll of beef. 
13 Two teels roafted, one 
~ larded. | 





4 Acold goofe pie. 
a5 A fouc’t mullet and bace. 


16 A quince pye. 
Four ae 2 larded. 
8 A dried neats tongue.. 


mgs A difh of anchoves. 


20 A jole of Sturgeon. 

Fellies and Tarts Royal,and 
~ Ginger bread, and other 
Fruits. 


‘A Bill of Eare for Ghriftmas 


Day, and. how to fet the 
Meat 1n order. 
Oyfters. 
1A deity of brawn. 
2 Stewed Broth of Mutton 
marrow bones. 
3 Agrand Sallet. 


( A pottage of caponets. 


__A breaft of veal in ftof- 

'sfado. 

6 A boild partridge. 

7 Achine of beef, or fur- 
foin roaft. ° 

8 Minced pies. 


_ g AJegote of mutton with 


anchove {auce. 
10 A made difh of f{weet- 
bread. " | 


rr A {wan roatft. 


122A pafty of Fenilth 
13 Akid with a gracing 
in his belly. 


14 A fteak pie. | 
I a. hanch of aah, 8 roa- 


6A turkey roatt ana | 
with cloves. 

17 A made difh of chitte 4 
ens in puff pafte. 

18T wo bran geefe roafted, 
one larded. 

19 Two large capons, one 
arded. 


20 A Cuftard.. 
The fecond courfe for the ible 7 
~ Mefs, . 


” Oranges and Lemons. 
t Ayoung lamb orkid. - 
z Fwo couple of rabbits, 
ip paeD ; ‘; 
3 Apig fouc’t with tongues. 
4 Three ducks,one larded.” 
5 Three pheafants,r larded- 
6 ASwanPye. 2 
7Three brace of partridge, 
three larded. _ / 
8 Made difh in puff pafte. 
9 Bolonia faufages, and an- 
"Chaves mufhrooms, and. 
Cavieate, and pickled oy- 
{ters in a dith. 
ro Six teels, three larded. 
| pana res 5 4) 4 87 






Bills of a 


er i 

1r AGammon of Weft- 11 A pafty of Venifon. 
phalia Bacon. . 12 A Pig roaft. 

12 Ten plovers,five larded. 13 Two geefe roatt. 

13 A quince pye, or war- 14 Twocapons,one farted, 


den pie. 15 Cuftards. 
T4Six woodcocks,3 larded: » 


15 A ftanding Tart in puff A feconad Sieg fr the lave 


pafte, Loe ed fruits, 
. Pippins, & Oranges and Lemons. 
16A *hith ‘of bis 1 A fide of Lamb. 
17 Six dried neats tongues. 2 A fouc’t Pig. 
18 Sturgeon. 3 Two couple of eapbits 
19 Powdered Geefe, two larded. 
Jellies. | 4 A duck and mallard, one 
larded. 
A Bill of Fare ie new-years 5 Sixteels, three larded. 
Day. 6 A made dith, or Batalia- 


Oyfters Pye. 
t Brawn “and ‘Maftard. 7SiX -wroodcocks 3 larded. 
2 Two boil’d Capons in 8 A warden pie, or a difh 

{tewed Broth, or white of quails. 

Broth. 9 Dried Neats tongues. 

: TwoTurkies in ftoffado. 6 Six tame bisaie ips 
Hafh of twelve Par- | larded. ‘|< 

t adaes, or a fhoulder of 11 A fouc’t Capon. - 

mutton 12 Pickled Putco 
5 Two ian Geefe boil’d. _ pickled Oyfters,and An- Ms 
6 A farc’tboil’d meat with choves ina difh. 

{nites or ducks. 13 Twelve {nites,fix raked 
7A marrow pudding bak’t 14 Orangado Pye, or a 
8 A furloin of roaft beef. Fart Royal of dried and 
gMinced pies,ten in adifh, © wer fuckets. 
or what number x0 pleafe 15 tila 
to A Loin of Veal. 16 Turkey or goofe Pe : 











- saa ses Bet —_ hiscmnaienandiid 
a wean cota te ek te QE afin a aA aera eae Prep IR emreenop eee 
2 ean: sx - ; Poy (Meee e 
+ > . ‘ + —. 
Bills of nea A 
oe -< a Ey re we + 7* * 
> ‘ e 


SNES CSSD Ie ES eee ee 


"Jelly of five or fix farts, 
LayTarts of divers colours 


A Second Gounfe. 


and ginger-bread, and o- 1 Afide of Lamb. 


ther Sweet-meats. 


q + “A Billof Fare for February. 


1 Eggs and Collops. 

2 Brawnand Muttard. 

3 A hath of Rabbits four: 
4 A grand Fricafe: 

5 A grand Sallet. 


6 A Chine of roaft Pork. 


AA fecond Courfe. 

t A whole Lamb roatft. 
2 Three Widgeons. 
3APippinPye | 
4.A Jole of Sturgeon. 

5 A Bacon Tart. 

6 Acold Turkey Pye. 


Jellies and Ginger-bread, 


and Tarts Royal. 


. A Bill of Fare for March. 


7s aiaeoy (ers. 
t Brawn and Muftard. 
2 A frefh Neats Tongue 


and Udder inftoffado. 


3 Three Ducks in ftoffado. 


4 Aroaft Loin of Pork. 
5 A patty of Venifon. 
6 ASteak Pye, 


1Scotch Pottage or Skin 


2 Six_ Teels, three larde 
3 A Lamb-ftone Pye. ~ 


4 2000f Afparagus. 


5 A Warden-Pye. 

6 Marinate Flounders.. 
Jellies andGinger-brea 

and Tarts Royal. 


A Bill of Fare for Apr 


Bisk. 
2 Cold Lamb: >; 
3 A hanch of venifon roa! 
4 Four Goflings =~ 
6 Cuftards of Almonds: 
A fecond Corfe. 
t Lamb, a fide in joynts 


2 Turtle Doves eight. — 
3 Cold Neats-tongue py 


- 4 8 Pidgeons, four larde 


5 Lobiters,':nga a 
6 A Collar of Beef. 
0) Aiguateemanices foes 


A Bill of Fare for May. 


2 Scot 





ome Bh of Fae. 





2 Scotch collops of mutton 

3 A Loin of Veal. | 

4 An oline,or a Pallat pye. 

5 Three Capons, 1 larded. 

6 Cuftard. | 
A fecond Gourfe. 

b (Py 


ie Betis gata | 
2 A TartRoyal, or Quince 
3 AGammon of BaconPie. 
4. A Jole of Sturgeon. 
5 Artichock Pie hot. 
6 Bolonia Saufage. 

___. Tanfies. 

A bill of Fave for June. 
a Afhoulderof muttonhafht 
2A Chine of Beef. 
3 Pafty of Venifon, acold 


oO. 


Hath. 
4 A Leg of Mutton roaft. 
§ Four Turkey Chickens. 
6 A Steak Pye. 

A fecond Gourfe. 
1 Jane or Kid. 
2 Rabbits. 
3 Shovelers. 
4 Sweet-bread Pye. 
5 Olines, or pewit. 
6 Pigeons; ~~ 
A bill of Fare for July. 
_ Muskmelons. 
i Pottage of Capon. 
2 Boil'd Pigeons. 
3 A hath of Caponets. 
4 A Grand Sallet. 


5 A Fawn. 
GA Citprar Sy - 
A fecond Gourfe. 


1 Peafe, of French Beans, 


2 Gulls four, two larded. 


3 Rewits eight, four larded. 


4A quodling Tart green. 
5 Portugal eggs, two forts. 
6 Buttered Brawn. 
“Selfey Cockles broil’d. 
A Bill of Fare for Augutt. 
Muskmelons. 
t Scotch collops of Veal. 


_2 Boild Breaft of Mutton. 


3 A Fricafe of Pigeons. 
4A ftewed Calves head. 
5 Four Goflings. 

6 Four Caponets. 

A fecond Courfe. 
1Dottereltwelve,{txlarded 
2 Tarts Royal of Fruit. 

3 Wheat-ears. | 

4 A Pye of Heath-Pouts. 

5 Marinate Smelts. 

6 Gammon of Bacon. | 
Selfey Cockles., 3 

A Bill of FareforSeptember 

Oyfters. 

1 An Olio. do. 

2ABreaftof Vealin ftoffa- 

3 twelve. Partridg hathed.- 

4 A Grand Sallet. | 

5°Chaldron Pye. ee 

6 Cultard. 















nad 2 
J oleae . 





Bill F Ee. 


A fecond GCourfe. 3 Roaf Weal. 7 
SE Robbits..."\ « 4 Tw Se ae ca 
2 Two herns, one larded. 5 Fart Roya 


3 Florentine of tongues. 6 Cattard” .- 
48 Pigeons roaft,4larded. A fecond Courfe. 


5 Pheafant pouts, 2 larded. 1 Pheafant, pouts, pigeons 
6A cold hare pye; -. 2Knotstwelve. ~- 
Selfey cockles broil’d after 3 Twelve quails, fix larded 
A Bill of Fare for O&ober. 4 Potato pye. - 

Oyfters. 5 Sparrows roaft. 
1 Boil’d Ducks. 6 Turbut. 
2 A hath of a loin of vet Selfey Chetan 


A bill is ire formerly ufed in Fafting days, and in Len 








The firft Coyrfe, 
Oyfters if in feafon. A fecond Courfe, 
t Butter and eggs. 1 Fried Soals. .. 
2 Barley pottage; or Rice 2 Stewed oyfters in ‘coll 
pottage. fhells. 
3 Stewed Oyfters. 3 Fried Smelets. 


4 Buttered eggs on toafts. 4 Congers head broil a 
5 Spinage Sallec boul'd. 5 Hea a Mt ae 
6 Boil’ 4 Rochet or gurnet. 


7 Ajole of Ling’ 6h pid a of Eels. 

8 Stewed Carp. 7 Cuince pie.or tarts royal. 
9 Oyfter Chewits. 8 Buttered Crabs. | 

10 Boil'd Pike. 9Fried Flounders. 

11 Roaft Eels. 10 Jole of frefh Salmon... ~ 

12 Haddocks, freth Cod,or xr Fried Turbur. 

Whitings. 12 Cold Salmon pye. 

13 Eel or Carp Pye. 13 Fried skirrets. 

14 Made dith of fpinage. 14 Souc’t Conger. 

rs Salt Eels,” “ * 15 Lobfters., 


16 Souct ‘Turbur.’ 6 Sturgeon.’ Jf 
3 THE 


Coa es ae ere 4 
Mm, a. ae 4 r 
> Poe id 
Ni 4 ew hore a 
i E 








ee 


ESS ERS EPs ESE aS SES ASE 


Pelion 


ACCOMPLISHT COOK, 


O Rf, 


The whole Art and Myftery of 
COOKERY, fitted for all 


Degrees and Qualities. 


Sedtion I. 
Perfect Directions for the A-la-mode Ways of 


dreffing all manner of Boyled Meats, ae their — 


peer ances, &c. 
To make an Olio Podrida. 


it with fair water, and fet it over a_ Fire of 

Charcoals,and put in firft your hardeft meats, 
arump of Beef, Bolozza {aufages,neats tongues two dry, 
and two green; "boiled and larded, about two hours af- 


Ts a Pipkin or Pot of fome three Gallons, fill : 


ter thePot is boil’d and fcummed: but put in more pre-_ 
fently after yourBeef is {cum’d,Mutton,Venifon, Pork, >. 
Bacon, all the aforefaid inGubbins,as big as aDucksEge, ee 


in p cael pieces ; put in alfo Carrots, Turnips, Onions, 
C Cab- 


NASSOS Re ae i atti eM eet ET P r 
mA he 75 ae ta atta NaN) Sp mi a Ses ae Ae yO A 








~~ 


Cabbidge, in good big pieces, as big as your meat,a fag- 

got of ie herbs, well bound up, and fome whole 

Spinage,Sorrel, Burrage, Endive, Marigolds, and other 

good Pot-Herbsa little choppeds and fometimes French 

Barley, or Lupins green or dry. . | 
Thena little before you difh: out your Olio; put to 

your pot , Cloves, Mace, Saffron, &¢. : 
Then next have divers Fowls 5 as firft 


‘A Goofe, or Turkey, tro Capons, two Ducks, two Phea- 
~ fants, two Widgeons, four Partridges, four ftockDoves,four 
Teals, eight Sites, twenty four Quarls, forty exght Larks, 


Boil-thefe forefaid Fowlsin water and falt in a pan, 
pipkin, or pot, ee. 7 | 


Then have Bread, Marrow, Bottoms of Artichocks 
Yolks of hard Eggs, Large Mace, Chefnuts boil'd ane 
blancht, two Colliflowers, Siftvon. ' 


And ftew thefe ina pipkin together, being ready 
clenged with fome good {weet butter, a little white 
wine and {trong broth. ie 

Some other times for variety you may ufe Beets, Po. 
tato’s, Skirrets,Piftaches, PineApple feed, or Almonds 
Poungarnet, and Lemons. 

Now to difh your Olio, dith firft your Beef, Veal o1 
Pork; then your Venifon, and Mutton, Tongues, Sau 
fage, and Roots over all. wl 
Then next your largeft Fowl], Land-Fowljor Sea 
Fowl, as firft, aGoofe, or Turkey, two Capons, twe 
Pheafants, four Ducks, four Widgeons, four Stock: 
Doves, four Partridges, eight Teals, twelve Snites 
twenty four Quailes, forty eight Larks, @c. 

Then broth it,and put on your pipkin of Colliflower 


Atti 





The Art and Myftery of Cookery. 2 
Artichocks, Cheinuts, fome {weet-breads fried, Yolks 
of hard Eggs, then Marrow boil’d in ftrong broth or 
water,large Mace,faffron,Piftaches,and all che aforefaid 
things being finely ftewed up,and fome red Beets over 
all, flic’t Lemons, and Lemon peels whole, and run it 
over with beaten butter. . 


Ss Marrow P tes. 
For the garnith of the difh, make marrow pies made 
like round Chewets, but not {o high aleogether, then 
have {weet-breads of veal cut like {mall dice, fome pi- 
{taches, and Marrow,fome Potato’s, or Artichocks cut 
like Sweetbreads: as alfo fome enterlarded Bacon; 
Yolks of hardEggs, Nutmeg,Salt, Goosberties,Grapes, 
or Barberries, and {ome minced Veal in the bottom of 
the Pie minced with fomeBacon or Beef-fiiit,Sparagus, 
and-Chefnuts, with a littlemusk + clofe chem up, and 
baft them with faffron water; bake them, and liquor 
it with beaten butter, and fet them about the difh fide 
or brims, with fome bottoms of Artichocks, and yolks 
of hard Eggs,Lemons in quarters,Poungarnets and red 
Reets boildy:and carved... fons r 
Other Marrow Pies, , | 

Otherways for variety, you may make other Mar- 
tow Pies of minced Veal and Beef fuit, feafoned with 
Pepper, Salt, Nutmegs, and boiled Sparagus, cut half 
an inch long, yolksof hard Eggs cut in quarters, and 
mingled with the meat and marrow: fill your Pies, 
bake them not too hard; musk them, ee. 


Other Marrow Pies; 


Otherways,Marrow Pies of bottoms of little Arti- 
chocks,Suckers, yolks of hard eggs,Chefnuts,Marrow, 
and interlarded Bacon Be es dice, fomeVeal Hees 
s 2 | reads 


tig 


#4 . % 





breads cut alfo, or Lamb-ftones, Potato’ s, or Skirrets: 
andSparagus,or none;feafon them lightly with Nutmeg 
Pepper and Salt, clofe your Pies,and bakethem. 


‘Olio, Marrow Pies. 


Butter three pound, Flower one quart, Lamb-Stone: 
_ three pair, Sweet-Breads fix, Marrow-bones eight, large 
‘Mace, Cock-ftones twenty, interlarded Bacon one pound 
knots of Eggs twelve, Artichocks twelve,Sparagus one hun. 
dred, Gocks-Combs twenty, Piftaches one pound, Nutmegs. 
Pepper, and Salt. | 


Seafon the aforefaid lightly, and lay them in the Pic 
‘upon fome minced veal or mutton, your interlardec 
Bacon in thin flices of halfan inch long, mingleda 
-mong the reft,fill the Pie, and put in fome Grapes,ane 
‘{lict Lemon, Barberries or Goosberries. ‘ 


ier ees of Marrow. 


: Flower, Sweet bread, Marrow, Artichocks, Piftaches 
Nutmegs, Eggs, Bacon, Veal, Suit, Sparagus, Ghefauts 
Musk, Saffron, Butter... 


2, Marrow Pies. 


> 


Flower, Butter, Veal, Suet, Pepper, Salt, Nutmeg,Spa- 
vagus, Eggs, Grapes, Marrow, Saffron. are 


3. Marrow Pies. 


Flower, Butter, Feggs, Artichocks, Swreet-bread Lamb 
Stones, Potato’s, Nutmegs, Pepper, Salt, Skirrets, Grapes, 
Bacon, . oan ts 


camer 


The Art and Myftery of Cookery. 5 


serine nen. 


To the garnifhof an extraordinary Olio: as followeth. 


Two Gollers of Pighrawn, tro Marrow Pies, twelve rofte 
Turtle Doves in a Pie, four Pies,eighteen Quails in a Pie, 
four Pies,two Sallets, two Felleys of two colours, two fore’t 
meats, two Tarts. | 


Thus for an extraordinary Olio, or Olio Royal. . 4 


To make a Bish divers ways. 


Take a wrack of Mutton, anda Knuckle of Veal, 
put them a boiling in a Pipkin of a Gallon, with fome 
fair water,and when it boils,fcum it,and put to it fome 
falt, two or three blades of largeMace, and a Clove or 
two; boil it to three pints,and {train the meat, fave 
the broth for your ufeand take-off the fatclean. 

Then boil twelve Pigeon-Peepers, and eight Chick- 
enPeepers, in a Pipkin with fair water, falt, anda piece 
of interlarded Bacon, {cum them clean, and boil thém 
fine, white and quick. | 

Then havea roft Capon minced, and put to it fome 
Gravy, Nutmegs, and Salt, and ftew it together ; then 
put to it the juyce of twoor three Oranges, and beaten 
Butter, ec. ae 

Then have ten {weet breads, aud ten pallets fried, 
and the fame number of lips and nofes being firft tender 
boil’d and blanched, cut them like lard, and fry them, 
put away the butter, and put to them gravy, a little an- 
chove, nutmeg, and a'little garlick, or none, the juyce 
of two or three Oranges, and Marrow fried.in Butter 
with Sage-leaves, and fome beaten Butter. ae 

Then again have fome boild’dMarrow and twelveAr- 
ee ore eccns finely boil’d and put into 


3 beaten 
£ 









4 





6 The Accompliftt COOK: Or, 
beaten Butter,fome Piftaches boiled alfo in fome wine 
_ and Gravy, eight Sheeps tongues larded and boiled,and 
- one hundred Sparagus boiled, and put into beaten But- 
ter, or Skirrets. en -: 
* Then have Lemons carved, and fome cut like little 
ice. ; it 

Again fry fome Spinage and Parfley, ec. ne 
Thefe forefaid materials being ready, have fome 

French bread in the bottom of your difh. 3 
~ Then difh on it yourChickens,and Pidgeons,broth its 
next your Quaile, then Sweet breads,then your Pullets, 


_ ‘then your Artichocks or Sparagus, and Piftaches, then 


your Lemon, Poungarnet,or Grapes, Spinage, and fry- 
ed Marrow ; and it yellow Saffron or fried Sage, then 
-round the center of your boiled meat put your minced 
Capon, then run all over with beaten butter, ec. 

1. For variety, Clary fryed with yolks of Eggs. 

2. Knots of Eggs. bates Wes 

~ 3. Cocks Stones. 
4. Cocks Combs. | ane 
5. If white, {trained Almonds,with fome of the broth, 
6. Goosberries or Barberries. 

7. Minced meat in Balls. | 

8. If green, Juyce of Spinage ftamped with manchet, 
and {trained with fome of the broth,and give ita warm. 

9. Garnith with boiled Spinage. | 

10. If yellow, yolks of hard Eggs ftrained with 
fome Broth and Saffron. = 5 ee 

And many other varieties. 

A Buk otherways. 
_. Takea Leg of Beef,cut it into two peices,and boil it 
in a gallon or five quarts of water,{cum it,and about half 
an hour after put ina knuckle of Veal, and {cum it alfo, 
boil it from five quarts to two quarts or lefS ; and sees 
three 


>. 





he Art anil Myftery of Cookery. . - 7 


three quarters boil’d,put in fomeSalt,and fome Cloves, . 
and Mace,being through boil’d, {train it from the meat, 
and keep the broth for your ufe in a pipkin. 

Then have eight Marrow bones clean {craped from 
the flefh,and finely cracked over the middle,boil in wa- 
ter and fale three of them,andthe other leave for garnith, 
to be boil’d in {trong broth; and laid on the top of the 
Bisk when it is difhed. 

Again boil your Fow! in water and Salt, Teals, Par- 
tridges, Pidgeons, Plovers, Quails, Larks. 

_ Thenhave a Joint of Mutton made into balls wich 
fweet Herbs, Salt, Nutmeggs, grated Bread, Eggs, Suit, 
a Clove or two of Garlick, andPiftaches, boil’d in 
‘Broth, with fome interlarded Bacon, Sheeps tongues, 
larded and ftewed, as alfo fome Artichocks, Marrow, 
Piftaches, Sweet-Breads and Lambs-ftones in ftrong 
broth, and Mace a Clove or two, jome white-wine and 
{trained almonds, or withthe yolk of an Egg, Verjuyce, 
beaten butter, and flic’t Lemon, or Grapes whole. 
sh have fryedClary,and firyed Piftaches in Yolks 
ggs. | 
Then Carved Lemons over all. 





To make another curious boil'd meat, much like a Bisk. 

Take a Rack of Matton,cut it in four peices,and boil 
it in three quarts of fair Water in a Pipkin,with a fag- 
got of fweet Herbs very hard and clofe bound up from 
end toend,fcum your broth and put in fome falt : Then 
about half an hour after put in thre chickens finely fcal- 
ded and truft, threePatridges boiled in water,the blood 
being well foaked out of them, and put to them alfo 

three or four blades of large Mace. : 
Then have all manner of {weet herbs,asParfley, Time, 
Savory, Marjorim, Sorrel, Sage; thefe being finely 
o8 C 4 picked 


of 





ie iy) eae SUR ARS an Se Aa eae rel iil a baits’ | 
Ree 1 é q ve a eh. ae | Pe tke 
y = a 


picked, bruife them with the back ofa ladle, and a lit- 


tle before you difh up your boil’d meat, put them to — 


as 


your broth, and give them a walm or two. — 


~The Accomplifht COOK: Oe ‘ , 


4 


Again,for the top of your boil’d meat or garnith,have 4 


a pound of interlarded Bacon in thin flices, put them in 
a pipkin with fix marrow-bones, and twelve bottoms of 


yong Artichocks,and fome fix fweet-breads of veal, 


rong broth, Mace, Nutmeg, fome Goosberries or 
Barberries, {ome Butter and Piftaches. ae 


Thefe things aforefaid being ready, and dinner called 


for,take a fine clean fcoured difh and garnifh it with Pi- 


ftaches and Artichocks, carved Lemon, Grapes, and 


large Mace. 


Then have fippets finely carved, and fome ilices of 


Fyenchbread in the bottom of the dith,difh three pieces 


of Mutton,and one in the middle,and between the mut- 


ton threeChickens,and up in the middle,the Partridge, 


and pour on the broth with your herbs, then put on 


your pipkin over all,of Marrow,Artichocks,and the o- 
ther materials, thenCarvedLemon,Barberries and bea- 
ten Butter over all,your carved fippets round the difh. 


Another made Dith in the French Fafbion, called an En- 


tre de Table, Eztrance to the Table. 


Take the bottoms of boil’d Artichocks, the yolks of 
hard Eggs, yong Chicken-peepers, or Pidgeon-peepers, 
finely truft, Sweetbreads of Veal, Lamb-{tones,blanch- 
ed,and put them in aPipkin, withCockftones,and combs, 
and knots of Eggs;then put to them fome ftrong broth, 


white-wine, large Mace, Nutmeg,Pepper, Butter, Salt, 


and Marrow, and ftew them foftly together. 

Then have Goosberries or Grapes perboil’d,or Bar- 
berries, and put to chem fome beaten Butter; andPota- 
to's, Skirrets or Sparagus boil’d, and put in beaten but- 
ter, and fome boil’d Piftaches. Thefe 


. 


The Art and Myftery of Cookery. 9 
_ ‘Thefe being finely ftewed, difh your fowls on fine 
carved fippets, and pour on your Sweet-Breads, Arti- 
chocks, and Sparaguson them, Grapes, and {flic’t Le- 
mon, and run all over with beaten butter, ec. 

Somtimes for variety,you may put fome boil’dCab- 
bidge, Lettice, Colliflowers; Balls of minced meat, or 
Saufages without skins,fryed Almonds, Calves Udder. 

Another French bold meat of Pine-molet. 

Take a manchet of French bread of a day old,chip it 
and cut a roundhole in thetop, fave. the peice whole, 
and take out the crumb, then make a compofition of a 
boild or a roft Capon, minced and ftampt with Almond 
paft, muskefied bisket bread, yolks of hard Eggs, and 
fome fweet Herbs chopped fine, fome yolks of raw 
Eggs and Saffron, Cinamon, Nutmeg, Currans, Sugar, 
Salt, Marrow and Piftaches ; fill the Loaf, and {top the 
hole with the piece, and boil itina clean cloth ina pip- 
kin, or bake it in an oven. . 

Then have fome forc’t Chickens flead,fave the skin, 
wings, legs,and neck whole,and mince the meat,two P1- 
geons allo forc't,two Chickens,two boned of each,and 
filled with fome minced veal or mutton,with fome in- 
terlarded Bacon,or Beef-{uet,and feafon it with Cloves, 
Mace, Pepper, Salt, and fome grated parmifon or none, 
grated bread, fweetHerbs chopped {mall,yolks of Eggs, 
and Grapes, fill the skins, and {titch up the back of the 
skin, then put them in a deep difh, with fome Sugar, 
ftrong broth, Artichocks, Marrow, Saffron, Sparrows, 
or Quails, and fome boiled Sparagus. 

For the garnifh of the aforefaid difh, roft Turneps 
and rof{t Onions, Grapes, Cordons, and Mace. 

‘Dith the forced loaf in the midft of the dith,theChick- 
ens, and Pigeons round about it,and the Quails or {mail 
birds over all, with marrow,Cordons, Artichoks,orSpa- 
| | ragus 





: pe The Accoraplifb COOK: Or, e 






oie (ee 
Fs epee? - or vo 
aN cm } * : EY io, « Sy 7 
Bi Ph, mb Py te 
, * hod o 
ae hak 1 ok 


ote Pee apy 
ive 


ragus, Pine apple-feed, or Piftaches,Grapes, andSweet- 
breads, and broth it on fippets. EES. 


To boil a Chine of Veal, whole, or tn peices, : 


Boilitin water,falt, or in ftrong broth with a faggot 
of {weet Herbs,Capers, Mace, Salt, and interlardedBa- 
con in thin flices, and fome Oyfter liquor. zy 
_ Your Chines being finely boiled, have fome ftewed 
Oyfters by themfelves with fome Mace and fine onions 
whole, fome vinegar, butter, and pepper ec. 

Then have Cucumbers boiled by themfelves in wa- 
ter and falt, or pickled Cucumbers boiled in water, 
and put in beaten Butter, and Cabbidge-lettice, boiled 
alfo in fair water,and put in beaten Butter. 

Then difh your Chines on fippits, broth them, and 
put on your ftewed Oyfters, Cucumbers, Lettice, and 
parboil’d Grapes, Boclites,or flic’t lemon, and run it o- 
ver with beaten Butter. } 


Chines of Veal atherways, whole, or tn pieces. 


_ Stew them,being firft almoft rofted, put them intoa 
deep Dith, with fome Gravy, fome ftrong broth,white 
Wine, Mace, Nutmeg, and fome Oyfter Liquor, 
two or threeflices of lemon and falt, and being finely 
ftewed ferve them on fippits,with that broth and flic’t 
Lemon,Goosberries, and beaten Butter,boil’d Marrow, 
fried Spinage,e*c. For variety Capers, or Sampier, 


Ghines of Veal boiled with fruit, whole. 
Put it ina ftewing panor deep difh,with fome ftrong 
Broth, large Mace, a little White Wine, and when tt 
boils {cum it, then put fome dates to, being half boil 


The Art and Myftery of Cookery. tT 
and Salt, fome white Endive, Sugar, and Marrow. 

_ Then boil fome fruit by it felf; your meat and broth 
being finely boil’d,Prunes and Raifons of theSun,ftrain 
fome fix yolks of Eggs, with a little Cream, and put it 
in your broth, then difh it on fippets, your Chine, and 
garnith your difh with Fruit, Mace, Dates Sugar, flic’t 
Lemon, and Barberries, ec. , 





Chines of Veal otherways. < 


Stew the whole with fome ftrong broth, White-wine, 


and Caper-Liquor, {lices of interlarded Bacon, Gravy, 
Cloves, Mace, whole Pepper,Saufages of minced Meat, 


without skins, or little Balls, fome Marrow, Salt, and © 


fome {weet Herbs picked ofall forts, and bruifed with 
the back ofa Ladle; put them to your broth, a quarter 
of an hour before you difh your Chines, and give them 
a warm, and difhup your Chine on Frexch Bread, or 
fippits, broth it, and run it over with beaten butter, 
Grapes or flict Lemon, cc. 


Chines of Mutton boild whole, or Loins,or any Foint whole, 


Boil it in a long {tewing-pan or deep difh with fair wa- 
ter as much as will cover it, and when it boils cover it, 
being {cumm/’d firft,and put to it fomeSalt, White-wine, 
and fome Carrots cut like dice; your broth being half 
boil’d, {train it,blow off the fat,and wath away the dregs 
from your Mutton, wath alfo your pipkin, or ftewing 
pan, and put in again your broth,with fome Capers,and 
large Mace: {ftew your broth and materials together 
foftly, and-lay your Mutton by in fome warm broth or 

ifh, then putin alfo fome fweet Herbs, chopped with 
Onions, boil’d among your broth. : 
_ Then have Colliflowers ready boil’d in water andfalt, 
and put in beacen butter,with fome boil'd Biatrowsi in, 

ce the 


- 


Hee SO 








12 | The Accomplifht COOK: Or, 
= | 


theMutton andBroth being ready,diffolve two or three | 
yolks ofEggs with White-Wine,Verjuyce orSacksgive 
ita walm, and difh up your meat-on fippets finely car- 
ved, or French bread in flices,and broth its then lay on 
your Colliflowers,Marrow,Carrots, and Goofeberries, — 
Barberries orGrapes,and run it over with beatenButter. 

Sometimes for variety, according to the feafons,you 
may ufe Turnips, Parfnips, Artichocks, Sparagus,Hop- — 
buds or Colliflowers, boild in water and falt,and put in 
beaten Butter,Cabbidge fprouts, or Cabbidge, Lettice, — 
and Chefnuts. i s 

- And for the thickning of this broth fometimes, take 

{trained Almonds, with {trong broth, and Saffron, or 
none. 

Other-while grated bread, Yolks ofhard Eggs, and 
Verjuyce, &c. ae 


To boil a Chine, Rack, or Loin, of Mutton, otherways, 
whole, or an pieces. : 

Boil it in a ftewing-pan or deep difh,with fair water 
as much as will cover it,and when it boils fcum it,and’ 
put to it fome falt; then being half boil’d, take up the. 
‘meat, {train the broth, and blow off the fat, wafh the 
ftewing-pan and meat, then put in again the crag end of 
- Mutton,to make the broth good,and put to it fome — 

ace. | 

Then a little before you take up your mutton,a hand- 
ful of picked Parfley chopped {mall,put it in the broth, 
with fome whole marigold flowers, and your whole 
chine of mutton give a walm or two, then difh it up 
on fippets and brothit: Then have Raifins of the Sun | 
and Currans boiled tender, lay onit, and garnifh your. 
Difh with Prunes, Marigold:flowers, Mace, Lemons, 
and Barberries, ec. bees *S sje 
| Other- 


~ Otherways withoutFruic,boil it with Capers,and all 
manner of {weet herbs f{tripped,fome Spinage,and Par- 
fley bruifed with the back ofaLadle,Mace,and Salt,e-c. 


j To boil aGhine of Mutton,whole or tz petcesor any other 
Joint. | : 


Boil it in a fair glazed pipkin, being well {cummed, 
put in a faggot of {weet herbs, as Time, Parfly, fweet 
Matjoram, bound hard and ftripped with your Knife, 
and put fome Carrots cut like {mall dice, or cutlike 
Lard, fome Raifins, Prunes, Marigold-flowers,and falt, 
and being finely boiled down, ferveit on fippits, gar- 
nifh your difh with Raifins, Mace, Prunes, Marigold- 
flowers, Carrots, Lemons, boil’d Marrow, ec. 

Sometimes for change leave out Carrots and Fruit. 
 Ufeall asbeforefaid, and add whiteEndive, Capers, 
Samphire,run it over with beaten Butterand Lemons. 


~ Barley Broth. if! 
Chine of Mutton ovVeal inBarleyBroth,Rackor any foynt. 


_ Takea Chine or Knuckle, and joynt it,put it in a Pip- 
kin with fome {trong broth,anid when it boils, {cum it, 
and put in fome FrenchBarley,being firft boiled in two 
or three waters,with fome large Mace, and a faggot of 
{weet herbs bound up,and clofe hard tied,fome Raifins, 
Damask Prunes, and Currans, or no. Prunes, and Mari- 
gold-flowers ; boil itto an indifferent thicknefS, and 
ferve it on fippets, 
Barley. Broth otherwife._. ake’ 

Boil the Barley firft.in two waters,and then put it to 

a Knuckle of Veal, and to the Broth, Sale, Res 

| weet 





: —. Otherwife. 7 
~~ Otherways without Fruit: put fore good Mutton- 


\ 


gravy, Saftron, and fometimes Raifins only. 
| Chine or any Joint. : 
~ Otherways ftew them with ftrong broth and White- 
Wine, putit ina Pipkin to them, {cum it, and put to it 
fome Oyfter-Liquor,Salt,whole peper, anda bundle of 
{weet herbs well bound up, fome Mace, two or three 
‘great Onions; fome interlarded Bacon cut like dice ; 
and Chefnuts, or blanched Almonds and Capers. — 

- Then ftew your Oyfters by themfelves with Mace, 
Butter, Time and two or three great Onions; fome- 
times Grapes. : (RH 

Garnifh your difh with Lemon-Peel, Oyfters,Mace; 
Capers, and Chefnuts, ec. 


Stewed Broth. 
T° make ftewd Broth, the Meat moft proper for it 


is. | 
A Leg of Beef, Marrow-Bones, Capon, or a Loin or 
Rack of Mutton or a knuckle of Veal. ee 
Take aKnuckle of Veal,a Joynt of Mutton,twoMar- 
row bones, a Capon,boil them in frefh water,and fcum 
them;then put ina bundle of {weet herbsjwell bound u 
or none,largeMace,wholeCinamon,andGinger bruifed, 
and put ina littlerag,thefpice being alittle bruifed alfo: 
Then beat fome Oatmeale,ftrain it, and put it to your 
broth,then have boil’dPrunes andCurrans ftraine cast 
| a 


The Art and Myftery of Cookery. 1s 


and put it to your broth, with fome whole raifons and 
currans ; and boil not your fruit too much: then about 
half an hour before you difh your meat, putin a pint of 
Claret Wine and Sugar, then difh up your meat on 
fine fippits, and broth it. 

Garnith your difh with Lemons, Prunes, Mace, Rai- 
fins, Currans, and Sugar. | 

You may add to the former Broth,Fennel-roots and 
Parfley roots tied up inabundle, | "2 


| Stewed Broth ner Fafhion. | 

-Otherways for change: take two Joints of Mutton, 
Rack and Loin, being half boiled and f{cummed, take 
up the Mutton, and wafh away the dregs from it, {train 
the broth, and blow away the fat, then put to the broth 
in 2 pipkin a bundle of {weetHerbs bound up hard,and 
fome Mace, and boil init alfo a pound of Raifins of the 
Sun being {trained, apound of Prunes whole, with 
Cloves,Pepper,Saftron,Salt,Claret, and Sugar : ftew all 
well together, a little before you difh out your broth, 
put in your meat again, give ita warm, and ferve it on 
fine carved fippits, 


To few a Loin or Rackof Mutton,or any Joint otherways. 


I. 

_ Chop a Loin into fteaks,lay it ina deep difh or ftew- 
ing pan,and put to it halfa pint of Claret or White- 
Wine, asmuch water, fome Salt and pepper, three or 
four whole Onions, a faggot of fweet Herbs bound up 
hard,and fome large Mace; cover them clofe,and ftew 
them leifurely the fpace of.cwo hours, turn them now 
and then, and ferve them on fippets. 
: LI: . 

Otherways for change, being half boiled, chop ache 
| weet 











16 : The Aecomplifie C aa a de 
ee 


{weet Herbs and put tothem, give them a walm, and 
ferve them on fippets with fcalded Cometic Bar. 
berries, Grapes, or Cee : 


Otherways for variety, put Raifins, Pr “fien@uurane 
Dates; and ferve them with flict Lemon and beaten 
butter. | | es 


IV: 
Rericnines you may alter the Spice, and put Nat. 
meg, Cloves, and Ginger. as 


Sometimesto the firtt lain way; put Capers; pick. 
led Cucumbers, ree eae) 


Otherways;ftew it between two difhes with fair wa- 
ter, and when it boils, {cum it, and put three or four 
blades of large Mace; grofs Pepper, Salt; and Cloves, 
and ftew them clofe covered two hours; then have Par- 
fley picked, and fome {tripped Time, {pinage, forrel, 
favoury; and fweet Marjoram, chopped with fome oni- 
ons, put them to your meat,and giveit a walm, with 
fome grated bread amongt{t,difh them on carved fippets, 
and blow off the fat on the broth,and broth it : lay Le- 
mon on it, and beaten butter, or ftew it thus.whole. 

Before you put on your Herbs blow offthe fat. 

. To boil a Leg of pes * divers WAYS: 


Stufa Legg of Mutton with Parfley being. finely 
picked, boil it_in water and falt, and ferve it ina aes 
difh with Parfley; 2nd verjuyce in fawcers. 


Otherways: boil it in water and falt,not ftuffedand 
being boiled ftuff it withLemon in bits fike {quare dice, 
and ferve it alfo with the peels {quare,cut round about 1 ig 

make 





am p* : a Wei" 28 ee 7 
The Art and Myftery of Cookery. 7 


make fauce with the Gravy. and beaten butter; with 


he 


Lemon and grated detente 


Other ways,boil it in water and falt,being fluffed with 
parfley,aud make fauce with large mace, gravy, chop- 
ped parfley,butter,vinegar,juice of orange,gooleberries, 
barberries; or grapes and {ugar : ferve it on fippets. 

IV. To bol a Leg of Matton otherways. 

, Take a good Jeg of Mutton, and boil it in water and 
falt, being ftuffed with {weet herbs chopped with fome 
beef-fuet, fome falt and nutmeg. } 

_ Then being almoft boiled,take up fome of the broth 
intoa Pipkin,and put to it fome large mace,a few cur- 
tans ; a handful of French Capers; and a little fack,the 
yolks of three or four hard eggs, minced {mall, and 
fome lemon cut like {quare dice;and being finely boil’d; 
dith it oncarved fippets, broth it, and run it over with 
beaten butter, and lemon fhred {mall. 

e IORSE V: Otherways. 

Take a fair leg of mutton, boil it in water and falr, 
and make fauce with gravy, fome wine vinegar, falt- 
butter, and {trong broth, being well ftewed together 
with nutmeg. Bik te : 

Then dith up the leg of mutton on fine carved fip- 
pets; and pour on your broth. | 

Garnith your difh with barberries, capers, and flic’t 
lemon. NL Sone piss ic ie 
_ Garnifhthe leg of mutton with the fame garnifh,and 
fun itover with beaten butter, flic’t lemon, and gra- 


ted nutmeg. : | ery 
: ~ To boil a leg of Veal. | | 
1. Stuffit with beef-fuet, and fweet herbs chopped, 
nutmeg, falt, and boil it infair water and fale. 
Then take fome of the broth, and put to fome capers; 
:. D currans 


ay 


Fo, ae SL a os ee i ‘~ Plast a ls b ae Tend 





AE as a % soni va igs a Aa fis ‘ ig oe 
; a ; . £ ra K es, a Py 1 agi Ne ee Pa ete hac 
18. The Accomplifoe COOK: Or, 


currans,large mace,a piece of interlarded Bacon,two or 
three wholeCloves,pieces of pears,and fome artichock- 
fuckers boil’d and put in beaten butter, boil’d marrow 


and mace. Then before you difhit up,have fo 














orrel,fage, 
parfley, time, fweet marjoram courfely minced, with 
twoor three cuts of a knife, and bruifed with the back 
of a ladle ona clean board, put it to your broth to make 
it green, and give ita warm or two. Then difhup the 
leg of veal on fine carved fippets, pour on the broth, 
and then your other materials, fome Goosberries, or 
Barberries, beaten butter and lemon. ae GB 
2. Yo bol a Leg of Veal otherways, es 
Stuff ic with beeffuet, nutmeg, and fale; boil it in'a 
pipkin, and when it boils, {cum it, and put into it fome 
~ falt, parfley, and fennel roots in a bundle clofe bound 
up; then being almoft boil’d, take up fome of the broth 
ina pipkin, and put to it fome Mace, Raifins of the 
fun, gravy; ftew them well together, and thicken it 
with grated bread {trained with hard Eggs: before you 
difh up your broth have parfley, time;fweet marjoram 
{tripr, marigo!d flowers, forrel, and {pinage picked : 
bruife ic with the back of aladle,give ita warm and difh 
up your leg of veal on fine carved fippets *' pour‘on 
‘the broth and run it over with beaten Butter: 
3. To boil a Leg of Veal otherwife with rice, or a Kauckle: 
~ Boil ic in a pipkin, put fome falt to it, and-feumit; 
then put to ic fome maceand fome rice finely picked 
and wafhed, fome raifins of the fun and ‘gravy 5 and 
being fineand tender boil’d, put in fome ftron and 
-_ferve it on fine carved fippets, with the rice over all). 
_ . 4, Otherways with paft cut like fmall lard, boil it in 
thin broth and faffron. * IRF; 
5. Otherways in white broth, and withfruit, {pi- 


nage, feet herbs and goofeberries, Ge. 2” - 
: 0 





; 


fh 


To make all manner of fore’t..meats, or. ftufings for any 
hind of Meats; as Leggs, Breafts; Shoulders, Lotns or 
Racks or for any Poultry or Fowl whatfoever, boild, 
roft, freed, or baked , or boil'd tn bags, round like aqua- 
hing Pudding in a napkin. . 


Toforce a Leg of Veal in the French Fafhion,in a Feaft 
for Dinner or Supper... - | 

the skin and knuckle whole together, then mince 
the meat that came out of the leg with fome beef-fuer 
or lard, and fome {weet herbs minced alfo3; then -fea- 
fon it with pepper; nutmeg, ginger, cloves, falt,aclove 
or two.ofgarlick, and fome three or four yolks of hard 
eggs whole or in quarters,pine apple-feed, two or three 
raw eggs, piftaches, chefnuts, pieces of artichocks, and 
fill the leg, fow it up and boil it in’ a pipkin wich two 
gallons of fair water, and fome white wine,being fcum- 
med and almoft boil’d take up fome broth into adith 
or pipkin; and put toit fomechefnuts; piftaches, pine- 


apple-feed, marrow, largemace, and artichocks bot- 


toms, and ftew them well. together; ‘then have fome 


fried toft of manchet ot roles finely carv’d. The leg be- 


ing finely boild, difh it on French bread,and fried toft 
and fippets round about it,broth it and-put on marrow, 


and your other materials, withfliced lemon and lemon’ 


eel, run it over with beaten butter, and chicken your 
ea fometimes with {trained almonds ; fometimes 
yolks ofeggs and faffron, or fafiron onely: 
You may add fometimes balls of the fame meat. 
S eBs110 pi) Quidam APRIL E sane al ed Wie bes 
For your Garnifh you may ufe Chefnuts,Artichock, 
piftaches, pine-apple-feed ang yolks of hard eggs in 
: 


halves or potato’s. Ocher- 


The Art and Myftery of Cookery. 19 


Tk 4 leg of Veal,and take out the meat;but leave ) 


ROE MELE de ENA Bl 
Ly a ADTs 
i i 





20 The decomp € COOK: oe 


Otherwhiles : Quinces1 in quarters, or pears,pippins 
goofeberries, grapes, or barberries. Sty 
 Loforcea breaft of Veal. | 
Mince fome Veal or Mutton with fome beef: fuet or 
fat bacon, and fome {weet herbsminced alfo, and fea- 
foned with fome cloves, mace,nutmeg, pepper, two or 
three raw eggs and falt : then prick it up, the breaft be- 
ing filled at the lower end, and ftew itbetween two. 
difhes with fome {trong broth, white wine, and large 
mace , then an hour after have fweet herbs picked and . 
ftripped, time, forrel,parfley, fweet’ Marjoram bruifed — 
with the back of a ladle,and put itinto your broth with 
fome beef-marrow, and give it a warm ; then difh up. 
your breaft of Veal,on fine fippets finely carved, broth 
it, and lay on flic’t lemons, marrow, mace and barber~ 
ries, and runit over with beaten butter. 
Ifyou will have the broth yellow, put faffron into ite 
To boil a breaft of Veal other wile. | 
Make a Pudding of grated manchet, minced fuet, 
and minced Veal, feafon it with nutmeg, pepper, and 
falt, three or four éggs, cinamon, dates, currans, raifins — 
of the Sun, fome grapes,fugar, and cream, mingle them _ 
all together, and fill the breaft; prick itup, and ftew 
it between two difhes, with white wine and {tron 
broth, mace dates, marrow, and being finely ftew 
ferve it on fippets) and runit over with beaten butter, 
lemon, Barberries, or grapes. 
Sometimes thick it with fome almond milk, fagar, | 
and cream. , | 
To Boil abreaft of Veal 1m another manner. | 
Joint ic well, and perboil it a’ little, then puticin a 
ftewing pan or ‘deep difh with fome ftrong broth;anda 
bundle of fweet herbs well bound up, fome large mace, 
and fome flices- of interlarded bacon, two or three 
cloves, — 





; 





8 


Ce ty ss ? 7 > - : ists 7 ; an? * ah 


bd A 





The Art and Myftery of Cookery. 21 


cloves, fome capers, famphire,falt, fome yolks of hard 
eggs, and white-wine ; ftew all thefe well together,and 
being boil’d and tender, ferve it on fine carved fippets, 
and broth it. Then have fome fried fweetbreads, fau-. 

fages of veal or pork, garlick or none, and run allover-. 
with beaten butter, lemon, and fried parfley. | 
_ Thus you may boil a Rack or Loin. 


‘To make feveral forts of Puddings. 
1. Bread Puddings yellow or Green. 


Cath four penny loaves, and fearce them through a 
cullender, put them in a deep difh, and put tothem 
four eggs, two quartsof cream, cloves, mace, and fome 
faffron, falt, rofe-water,fugar, currans, a pound of beef- 
{uet minced, and a pound of dates. 

If green, juyces of {pinage, and all manner of {weet 
herbs ftamped amongtt the {pinage, and {train the juyce, 
{weet herbs chopped very {mall, cream, cinamon, nut- 
meg, falt, and all other things, ‘as is next before iaid: 
your herbs muft be time ftripped,favoury, {weet marjo- 
ram, rofemarry, parfley, pennyroyal, dates ; in thefe 
fevenor eight yolks of eggs. : 

Another Pudding, called Cinamon-P udding. 

Take five penny loaves, and fearce them through a 
cullender, put them inadeep difh or tray, and put to 
them five pints of cream, cinamon fix ounces, fuet one 
pound minced, eggs{ix yolks, four whites, fugar, fale, 
flict dates, ftamped almonds, or none, rofe-water. 

© “To make Rice Pudaings. 
Boil yourRice withCream, {train it, and put toit two | 
D3 i penny 











vs, Hie) Witt 
CATER: Atay 


‘ dy . : : | as z — bei - : _ 
22° The Accomplifot COOK: Or, 


penny loaves grated, eight yolks of eggs, and three 
Biitess best fuet, one pound of Sugar,Salt, Rofe-water, 
Nutmeg, Coriander beaten, ec. _ hd 
wt nou Os gs Othe geh: Puddings, (Siri ag 
Steep your rice in milk over night, and next mor- 
ning drain it, and boil it with cream, feafon it with fu-_ 
gar being cold, and eggs,beef-fuet, falt:nutmegs,cloves, 
mace, currans, dates, ec. | | ye 
Yo make Oatmeal puddings,called Ifings. 4 
Take a quart of whole oatmeal, being picked, fteep 

ic in warm milk over night, next morning drain it,and 
boil it ina quart of {weet cream; and being cold,put to’ 
it {ix eggs, of them but three whites, cloves, mace, faf- 
fron, pepper, fuet, dates, currans, falt, fugar. This put 








_ 4n bags, guts, or fowls, as capon, &e. ’ 


- Tf green, good ftore of herbs chopped fmall. a 
To make blood Puddings. ° = 
Take the blood of a hog, while it is warm, and fteep 

in ita quart or more of great oatmeal groats, at the 

the end of three days take the groats out and drain them 
clean; then put to thefe groats more then a quart of the 

‘beft cream warmed on the fire: then take fome mother 

of time, {pinage, parfley, favory, endive, {weet marjo- 

ram, forrel, ftrawberry leaves, fuccory, of each a few 
chopped very {mall and mix them with the groats,with 
alittle fennel feed finely beaten,fome peper,cloves,mace 
falt,and fome beef-fuet, or flakes of the hog cut fmall. 
~ Orherways, you may fteep your oatmeal in warm 
mutton broth, or {calding milk, or boil it ina bag. 

Se To make Andoltans. 

Soak the hogs guts, and turn them, {cour them, and 
fteep them in water a day and a night, then take them 
and wipe them dry, and turn the fat fide outermotft. 

Then have pepper, chopped fage, a little cloves and 

«Ae ; | ~ mace, 





- The Art and Myflery of Cookery. es 


-mace,beaten coriander-feed,& falt; mingle all together, 


-and feafon the fat fide of the guts, then turn that fide in- 
ward again,and draw one gut over another to what big- 
nefs you pleafe:thus of a whole belly ofa fat hog. Then 

boil them ina pot or pan of fair water,with a piece of 
interlarded bacon, fome {pices and falt; tye them faft 

at both ends,and make them of what length you pleafe. 

Sometimes for variety you may leave out fome of 
the forefaid herbs, and put pennyroyal, favory, leeks, 
agood big onionor two, marjoram, time, rofemary, 
fage, nutmeg, ginger, pepper, falt, cc. 

To make other Blood Puddings. 

Steep great oatmeal in eight pints of warm goofe 
blood, fheeps blood, calves, or lambs, or fawns blood, 
and drain it, as is aforefaid, after three days put to it in 
every pint as before. 

| Other Blood Puddings. — 


Take blood and ftrain it, putin three pints, of the 


blood, and two of cream,three penny manchets grated, 
and beef-fuet cut {quare like {mall dice or hogs flakes, 
yolks ofeight eggs, falt, {weet herbs, nutmeg, cloves, 
mace and pepper. | 

Sometimes for variety, Sugar, Currans, cc. 
To make a moft vare excellent Marrow Pudding ina dilh 

baked, and garnilh the Difh trims with Puff paft. 

Take the marrow of four marrow bones,two pinemo- 
lets or french bread, halfa pound of raifins of the Sun, 
ready boil’d and cold, cinamona quarter of an ounce 
finely beaten, two grated nutmegs, {ugar a quarter ofa 
pound, datesa quarter of a pound,fack-halfa pint,rofe- 
water a quarter of a pint,ten eggs,two grains of amber- 
greefe,and two of musk diffolved: now have a fine clean 


deep large difh, then have a {lice of french bread, and — 


lay a lay of fliced bread in the difh,and ftew it with cina- 
Be ie : D 4, mon 


RO a ee Maen eA S, ge E NM eR E TUE JR ory MN | WR eS (EAR URES GTO tone 
‘ Tihaye 3 ‘ J Petes te aB  A. at 

: ‘ Fo SRY ee ee ee 

if 4 ys Be SE 

aig: 






“%, 


= 


; . x 
240 





Wied arian per GER hha 


The Accomplifhat COOK: 
mon,nutmeg,and fugar mingled together,and alfo fprin- 
kle the flices of bread with fack and rofe- water,& the 
fome raifins of the fun,and fome {liced dates and gooc 
big peices of marrow;and thus make two or three lays 
of the aforefaid ingredients, with four ounces of musk, 
ambergreece, and moft marrow onthe top, then take 
two quarts of cream, and {train it with half a quarter of 
fine fugar,and a little falt,(about a {poonful and twelve 
eggs, fix of the whites takena way : then fet the difh in- 
to the oven,temperate,and not too hot,and bake it ve- 
ry fair and white, and fill it at two feveral times, and 
being baked, {crape fine {ugar on it, and ferve it hot. — 
To make marrow Puddines of Rice and grated Bread. 

Steep halfa pound of rice in milk all night,then drain it 
from the milk,and boil it ina quart of cream;being boild 
{train it and put it to half a pound of fugar, beaten nut- 
meg and mace fteeped in rofe water, and put to the 
forefaid materials eight yolks, of eggs, and five grated 
manchets, put to it alfo half a pound of marrow, cut 
like-dice, and falt ; mingle all together, and fill your. 
bag or napkin, and ferve it with beaten butter, being 
boiled and ftuck with almonds. | 

Ifin guts, being boild, toft them before the fire in a 
filver difh or tofting pan. nee a, 
To make other Puddings of Turkse or Capon in bags, guts, 
or for any kind of ftuffing,or forcing or in Cauls 

Take a roft Turky,mince it very {mall, and ftamp it 
with fome almond paft, then put fome coriander-feed 
beaten, falt,fugar,rofe-water, yolks of eggs raw,and mar- 
row {tamped alfo with it,and put fome cream,mace,fo- 
ked in fack and whitewine,rofe-water and fack,ftrain it 
into the materials,and make not your ftuffto thin,then 
fill eicher gut or napkin, or any fouls boil’d, bak’d or 
roft,or legs of veal or mutton,or breafts,or kid,or fawn, 
whole lambs, fuckers, @c. =  Sheeps 


re Pa See ae 
Ca Ne are 9 


















Th 


e Art and Myftery Y ; Cookery. ‘ 25 ae 


Sheeps Hageas Puddings. 4 


To make a Haggas Pudding in a Sheeps Paunch, 


“W Ake good ftore of Parfley, favory, time, onions, 
oatmeal groats chopped together, and mingled 
with fome beef or mutton-fuet minced together, and 
fome cloves, mace, pepper, and falt ; fill the paunch, 
fow itup, and boil it. Then being boiled, ferveitina 
difh, and cut a holein the top of it, and put in fome bea- 
ten butter with two or three yolks of eggs diflolved in 
the-butter or none. | “ 
Thus one may do for a Fafting day, and put no {uet in 
it, and put itin a napkin or bag,and being well boiled, 
butter it, and difh it in a difh, and ferve it with fipp. 
Haggas otherways. gh he 
Steep the oatmeal over nightin warm milk, next 
morning boil it in cream,and being fine and thick boil’d, 
put beef-fuet to it in a difh or tray, fome cloves, mace, 
nutmeg, falt,and fome raifins ofthe fun, ornone, and 
-an onion, fomtimes favory, parfley, and {weet marjo- 
“ram, and fill the panch, ec. , 
i, Other Haggas Puddings. 
Calves panch, calves chaldrons, or muggets being 
-clenged, boil it tender and mince it very {mall put to it 
grated bread, eight yolks of eggs, two or three whites, 
-cream,fome {weet herbs,{pinage, fuccory, forrel,ftraw- 
berry leaves very {mall minced ; bits of butter,pepper, 
-cloves,mace,cinnamon, ginger,currans,{ugar,falt, dates, 
and boil it in a napkin or calves panch, or bake it: and 
being boiled, put it ina difh, trim the difh with {cra- 
ped fugar, and ftick it with flic’t Almonds, and run it 
over with beaten butter, &c. To 








ix 5 tii ns hd 2. 9) ) wets Aula EMSs Re a , A . 
zi ha eee ates Ane sO Shai tae mia ie , 
POE ea RAN Pied pee: RB Cy Oey ate” he My LA 
Aelia ds li Tara) AES eta Rae Mion , i 
4 . sat ill * 





> 


Lifht 


SRT 
‘i 


Take a good hogs, calves,or lambs liver, and boil its 


Other Liver Puddings, = 

For variety, {ometimes {weet herbs, and fometimes 
flakes of the hog in place of beef-fuet, fennil-feed, car- 
_ raway feed, or any other feed, and keep the order as is 
abovefaid. 

To make Puddings of blood after the Italian falbion.. — 

Take three pints of hogs blood, {train it, and put to 
it half'a pound of grated cheefe, a penny manchet gra- 
ted, {weet herbs chopped very {mall,a pound of beef: 
fuet minced {mall, nutmeg, pepper, falt, ginger,cloves. 
mace, cinamon, fugar, Currans, eggs, ec. . : 


To make Puddings of a Heifers Udder. 


Take an heifers udder,and boil it ; being cold, mince 
it {mall, and put to ita pound of almond pafte,fome gra- 
ted manchet, three‘or four eggs, a quart of cream, one 
pound of beef-fuet minced {mall, fweet herbs chopped 
{mall alfo, currans,cinamon, falt, one pound of fugar, 
nutmeg, faffron, yolks of hard eggs in quarters, prefer- 
ved pears in form of {quare dice; bits of marrow $ min- 
‘gle all together, and put it ina clean napkin dipped in 
warm liquor, bind it up round like a ball, and boil it. 

Being boil’d difh it ina clean {coured difh,fcrape fugar, 
andrun it over with beaten butten;ftick it with flic’t al- 
eo ee 2 aa monds, 





The Art and Myfrery 


monds, or flic’t dates, canded lemon peel, orange,or ci- 
trons, juyce of orange over all. Kye) 
Thus alfo lamb-ftones, fweet-breads, turkey, capon, 


or any poultrey. 





of Cookery. i oy 


Forcing for any roots ; as melons, Cucumbers, Colliflowers, 
Cablidge, Pompions, Gourds, great Ontons, Parfnips, 
Turnips or Carrots. | 


Take a Musk Mellon, take out the feed, cut it round 
the mellon two fingers deep,then make a forcing of gra- 
ted bread, beaten almonds, rofe-water and fugar, fome 
musk-mellon {tamped {mall with it, alfo bisket bread 
beaten to powder ; fome coriander-feed, canded lemon 
minced {mall, fome beaten mace and marrow minced 
{mall, beaten cinamon, yolks of raw eggs, {weet 
herbs, faffron, and musk a grain; then fill your rounds 
Of mellons, and put them in a flat bottom’d difh, or 
earthen pan,with butter inthe bottom, and bake them 
in a difh. 

Then have fauce made with white-wine and ftrong 
broth {trained with beaten almonds, fugar,and cinamons 
ferve them on fippets finely carved, give this broth a 
warm, and pour it onyour mellons,with fome fine {cra- 
ped fugar, dry them in the oven, and fo ferve them. 

Or you may do thefe whole; mellons, cucumbers, le- 
mons or turnips, and ferve them with any boil’d fowl. 
* Other forcing, or Pudding, or ftuffing for Birds or any 
: beet or any Forint of Meat. 

Take veal or mutton, mince it, and put to it fome 
srated bread, yolks ofeggs, cream, currans, dates, fu- 
gar, nutmeg, cinamon, ginger, mace, juyce of {pinage, 
-{weet herbs, falt, and mingle alltogether, with fome 
whole marrow amongft. If yellow, ufe aa i 

‘Noes reel Aaaalie : . ey 








28 © The 









eae wt ce, 








TA? 
| Ee 






i OOK MOnT #4 
Other forcing for Fowls or any Foint of meat. 

’ Mince a leg of mutton or veal and fome beef-{uet,o: 
venifon, with {weet herbs, grated bread, eggs, nutmeg 
pepper, ginger, falt, dates, currans, raifins, fome dry 
canded oranges, coriander feed, anda little cream;bake 
them or boil them,and {tew them in white wine,grapes 
marrow, and give thema walm or two, thick it witl 
two or three yolks of eggs, fugar, verjuyce, and ferve 
thefe puddings on fippets, pour on the broth, and ftrew 
on {ugar and flic’t lemon. Tei, ea 





Accomplifo 








Other forcing of Veal or Pork, Mutton, Lamb, Venilon 
Land, or Sea Foul. 3 


Mince them with beef-fuet or lard, and feafon ther 
with pepper,cloves,mace, and fome {weet herbs grated 
Bolonia faufages, yolks of eggs, grated cheefe,falt, ec. 

Other {tuffings or forcings of grated cheefe, calves 
brains, or any brains,as pork,goat, Kid or Lamb,or any 
venifon, or pigs brains, with {ome beaten nutmeg, pep: 
per,falt,ginger,cloves,{affron, {weet herbs, eggs,Goofe- 
berries, or grapes. | 

Other forcing of calves uddder boiled and cold, and 
ftamped with almond paft, cheefe-curds, fugar, cina- 
mon,ginger, mace cream, falt, raw eggs,and fome mar- 
row or butter, ec. Ce 

Other Stuffings of Puddings. i 

Take rice flower, {train it with Goats milk or cream, 
and the brawn of a poultry rofted, minced and ftam- 
ped, boil them toa goed thicknefs,with {ome marrow, 
fugar, rofewater and fome falt ; and being cold, fill 
your poultry, either in cauls of vealor other Joynts of 
meat, and bake them or boil theminbagsor guts, put 
in fome nutmeg,almond paft,and fome beaten a 
. ther 


‘ 


ee a Re hy EEC eS Em ter! ROE cow A) Re 


x a: - a sate BT hone bg Pate vai) 9g ety a 
ws 3 . n a : i ! 












Other fruffings of the bramn of a Capon, Ghickens, Pige- 
| ons, or any tender Sea Foul. 
Take out the meat, and fave the skins whole,leave 
onthe legs and wings to the skin,and alfo the necks and 
heads, and mince the meat raw with fome interlarded © 
bacon, or beef-fuet,feafon it with cloves, mace, fugar, 
falt, and fweet herbs chopped {mall, yolks of cp8s gra- 
ted, parmifan or none, fill the body, legs,and neck, prick 
wp the back,and ftew them between two dithes with 

trong broth as much as will cover them, and put fome 
bottoms of artichocks, cordons,or boil’d {paragus,goos- 
berries, Barberries, or grapes being boil’d, put in fome 
grated permifan, large mace,and {atfron,and ferve them 
on fine carved {fippets, garnifh the difh with roaft tur- 
nips, or reaft onions,cardons, and mace, ee. 

Other forcing of Lawers of Poultry, or Kid or Lambs. 

Take theLiver raw,and cut it into little bits like dice, 
and as much interlarded bacon cut in the fame form, 
fome {weet herbs chopped {mall amongft;alfo fome raw 
yolks of eggs,and fome beaten cloves and mace,pepper, 
and falt,a few prunes or raifins,or no fruit,but grapes or 
soofeberries,a little grated permifan, a clove or two of 
garlick; and fill your poultry, either boild or roft, ec. 
Other forcing for any dainty Foul 5 as Turkie,Chickens, or 

| Pheafantsor thelske boil dorrof. 

Take minced veal raw,and bacon or beef-fuet minc’t 
with it; being finely minced,feafon it with cloves and 
mace,a few currans falt,and {ome boiled bottoms of ar- 
tichocks cut in form of dice fmall, and mingle a- 
mongft the forcing,with pine-apple-feeds, piftaches,chef- 
huts and fome raw eggs, and fill your poultrey, eéc, 

Other fillings or forcings of parboild Veal or Mutton. 

» Mince the Meat with beet-{uet or interlardedBacon; 
and fomecloves, mace, pepper, falt, eggs, fuga, and 
as ome 


: 





The Art and Myftery of Cc pkherer 4. #29” i ky 





30 ‘ The Aisle COOK: 


_ cream, cinamon, and fugar 3 if yellow, faffron. 


Or, *" 
Reet 











fome quartered pears, dam fons, or prunes; mpd filly you! 


fowls, &c. 
Other fillings of vaw Ca agg a 

Mince it with fat bacon and grate ole or ‘permi 
fan, {weet herbs, cheefe-curd, currans, cinamon, ginger 
nutmeg, pepper, falt, and fome pieces of artichock: 
like {mall dice, fugar, faffron, and fome mu fhrooms. | 

Otherways. 

Grated liver of veal, minced lard, fennel: feed whol 
raw eggs,fugar, {weet herbs, 5 fale erated cheefe, a clov 
or two of garlick,cloves,miace,cinamon and pingeryev 

— Otherways. Riche 

For a leg of mutton,grated bread yolks of raw & 

beef-furet; falt, nutmeg, fweet herbs, juyce of {pi : 





tei forcing, for Lana or Sed fowl botled or bakeds, 
ov a Leg of Mutton. 

Ac ales the meat out of the leg, leave the skin wide 
ahd mince the meat with beef-fuet and fweetherbs; 
and put to it, being finely minced, grated bread, dates; 
currans, raifins, orange minced {mall, ginger, pepper, 
nutmeg, cream, and eggs; being boiled or baked, make 
a fauce with marrow, fron broth; white- wine, ver- 
juyce, mace, fugar, and yolks of eggs; ftrained with 
verjuyce; ferve it on fine carved fippets, and {lic’d le- 
mon, grapes or goofeberries - and thus you rc do i it 
in cauls of veal, lamb, or kid: eto 

Legs of Mutton: fore t, etther- roft or boiPd: 

Mince the meat with beef fet or bacon,fweet herbs, 
pepper, falt,cloves and mace,and two or three cloves of 
garlick,raw eggs,two or three chefhuts,8ework up alto- 
gether, fill the leg,and prick it up,then roft it or boil it: 
make fauce with the remainder of the meat, &{tew iton 
the fire with gravy,chefnuts,piftaches,or pine apple pike 


4 


4 9 1 Ey 
a hy Shes 
oo yee 
a, 


he Art and Myftery of Cookery. en ak 


bits of artichocks, pears, grapes, or pippins, and ferve 
t hot onthis fauce, or with gravy that drops from it 
only, and ftew it hetween two difhes, — 

| Uiher forcing of Veal, © | | 

Mince the veal and cut the lard like dice, and put to 
it, with fome minced Pennyroyall, fweet marjoram, 
winter favory, nutmeg,a littlécammomile,pepper, fale, 
singer, cinamon, fugar, arid work ali together ; then fill 
it into beef guts of fome three inches long, and ftew 
them in a pipkin with claret wine,large mace,capers and 
marrow ; being finely ftewed, ferve them on fine car 
ved fippets, flic’d lemon.and barberries, and run them 
over with beaten butter and {craped fugar. 

Other forcing for Veal, Mutton, or Lamb. 

Either of thefe minced with beef-{uet, parfley,. ‘me, 

f{avory, marigolds, endive and {pinage ; mince all toge- 
ther,and put fome grated bread;grated nutmeg, currans; 
five dates, fugar, yolks of eggs, rofe-water, and ver- 
juyce 5 of this forcing you may make birds,fifhes,beafts , 





* 





pears, balls or what you will, and ftew them, or fry x 
them,or bake them and ferve them on fippets with ver- " 
juyce, fugar and butter, either dinner or {upper..... oo .. 


Other forcing for breaft, Legs, or Loyns of Beef, Mutton, 
Veal, ov any Venton, or Fowl, rofted, baked, or frewed, 
Mince any meat,and put toit beef-fuet or lard,dates, “— 
raifins, grated bread; nutmeg, pepper and falr, and two 
or three eggs, ec. ; : , 
; Otherways. : 
-Mince fome mutton with beef-fuet, fome orange-peel, 
grated nutmeg, grated bread, coriander-{eed, pepper; 
fait, and yolks of eggs, mingle all together, and fill any 
breaft, or leg, or any Joynt of fweet, and make fauce 
with gravy, {trong broth,dates, currans, fugar, falt, le- 
mons, and barberries.. ¢c, | By 
| ALIIEY 













Bp A Be Accomplifhe CO" sO” wan 
<< Other forcing for roft or boil’d, or baked Légs of any 
- peat, or any other Font or Fowl, ~ it 
~Mince’a Leg of Mutton with beef-fuet, feafon it with 
. cloves, mace, pepper, falt, nutmeg, rofe-water, currans. 
o raifins, carraway-{eeds and eggs ; and fill your leg of 
ph Mutton, @c. ‘0 oe Sites 
" - Then for fauce for the’aforefaid,if baked, bake it in 
an earthen pan or deep difh, and being baked, blow a- 

: way the fat, and ferveit withthe gravy. = > 
Ifroft, fave the gravy that drops from it; and put to 

it flict lemon or orange. lout noite Frere 
a - Tfboil’d,put capers,barberries,white-wine,hard egg: 
| ‘minced,beaten Butter, gravy, verjuyce and fugar;ec, . 

; Other forcing. | i 

~ Mpacea leg of mutton or lamb wich beef-fuet,and all 
.. -‘Mam 2r of {weet herbs minced, cloves, mace, falt, cur- 
————-yans, fugar, and fill the leg withhalf the meat: than 
make the reft into little cakes as broad:as a fhilling,and 
put them in a pipkin,with {trong mutton broth,cloves, 








. mace,vinegar,and boil the leg,or bake it; or roft it. 
i: Forcing 1n the Spanilo Fafhion 1n balls, De: 
es Mince a leg of mutton with beef fuet and fome mar- 


row cut like {quare dice,put amongft fome yolks of 

_eggs, and fome falt and nutmeg;make this ftuff as big as 

a tennis ball, and ftew them with ftrong broth the {pace 

of two hours; turn them and ferve them on toafts of fine 

_.’ manchet,and ferve them with the paleft of the balls; — 
a | Other manner of Balls — | 

Mince a leg of Veal very fmall, yolks of hard eggs; 

_ and the yolks of feven or eight raw eggs; fome falty 

make them into ballsas big as a walnut,and ftew them 

in a pipkin with fome mutton broth,mace, cloves, and 

flic’t ginger, ftew them an hour, and put fome mar- 

row to them, and ferve them on fippets, ec. 












oat ck A ‘ . : hw a) Ae (meee > 2 gd oe 
3 re Ait eer. ; be RO cee) ie) ACOA, SS Ee TS Rope 
a vw f i ‘ te -t < mete, Swe t's Sats 7, me i i, 
3 ao ett " (er By , of its 4 yy villa at ie Ee, PS ae t ae Hae: 
Le A ARIES A P 3 f : 
» $ re) y yy 
. ‘i 
DT ne Oe 
\, are ete sh # i 








The Art and Myftery of Cookery. — a3. 
if. a: Other grand or forc’t Dib = 
_ "Take hard eggs, and part the yolks and whites in 
halves, then take the yolks and mince them, or ftamp 
them in a Mortar, with marchpane ftuff, and fweer 
herbs chopped very fmall, and put amongft the eggs 
or paft, with"fugar and cinamon fine beaten, put fome 
currans alfo to them, and mingle all together with fale, 
fillthewhites,and fetthemby; © |. 

Then have preferved oranges canded, and fill them 
with marchpane pafte and fugar, and fet them by alfo. 
~ Then have the tops of {paragus boil’d, and mixed 
with butter, a little fack, and fet them by alfo. | 

‘Then have boild chefnuts peeled; and piftaches, and 
fet them by alfo. me pier tee 

Then have marrow fteeped firft in rofe-water, then 
fried in Butter, fet that by alfo. 

_- Then have green quodlings flict, mixt with bisker 
bread & egg,and fried in little cakes,and fet that by alfo. 

Then have fweet-breads, or lamb-ftones, and yolks 
of hard eggs fryed, ec. and dipped in Butter. 

Then have {mall turtle doves, and pigeon peepers 
and chicken-peepers fried, or finely rofted or boiled, 
and fet them by, or any {mall birds, and fome arti- 
chocks, and potato’s boil’d and fried in Butter, and 
fome balls asbigas a walnut, or lefs, made of parmi- 
fan, and dipped in butter, and fried; ae: 

Then laft of all, put them all ina great charger, the 
chickens or fowls in the middle, then lay a lay of {weet- 
breads; then a lay of bottoms of artichocks, and the 
marrow ; on them fome preferved oranges. 

Then next fome hard eggs round that,fried {paragus, 
yolks of eggs, chefnuts, and piftaches; then your green. - 
quodlings {tuffed : the charger being full, put to them 
marrow all over the erie juyce of orange,and ak 

: : BUCE 








nh The Accomplifht COO Ks Or. Sees 


2 fauce of {trained almonds, grapes, and verjuyce ; and 
being a little {tewed in the oven, dry it, ec. m. 
Sweetbreads, Lambftones, Chickens, Marrow, Almonds, 
Eges, Oranges, Bisket, Sparagus, Artichocks, Musk , Saf- 
_ fron, Butter, Potato’s,Piftaches, Chefnuts, Verjuyce, Sugar, 
Flower, Parmifan, CGinamon. | | eae 
To force a French Bread calledPine-molet,or three of them, 
Take a manchet,and makea hole in the top of it,take 
out the crum, and make a compofition of the brawn 
of a capon roftor boil’d ; mince it, and ftamp it in a 
mortar, with marchpane paft, cream, yolks of hare 
eggs, muskefied bisket bread, the crum of very fine 
manchet, fugar, marrow, musk, and fome fweet herbs 
chopped {mall,beaten cinamon,fafiron, fome raw yolk: 
of eggs, and currans : fill the bread, and boil them in 
napkins in capon broth, but firft {top the top with the 
pieces you took off. Then ftew or fry fome fweet: 
breads of veal and forced chickens between two difh 
es, or Lamb-f{tones, fried with fome mace, marrow 
and grapes, {paragus, or artichocks, and skirrets, the 
manchets being well boil’d, and your chickens finely 
ftewed, ferve them ina fine difh, the manchets in the 
_middle, and the fweetbreads, chickens, and carved fip 
pets round about the difh ; being finely difhed, thicker 
the chicken broth with {trained almonds, cream, fu 
gar, and beaten butter. 

Garnifh your difh with marrow, piftaches, arti 
chocks, puff pafte, mace, dates, pomegranats, or bar 
berries, and {lic't lemon. 

. Another forc’t difp. ee ls 
Take two pound of beet-marrow, and cut it as big a: 
greatdice,anda pound of Dates,cut as big as {mall Dice 
then have a pound of prunes,and take away the ong 
‘ ron 


¢. tiem elas 4 eae) rt to ae 
| ah : 


+ : ee 


~The Art and Mjftery of Cookety. = 35. 


from the ftones with-your knife, and a pound of Cur- 
rans, and put thefeaforefaid in a Platter, twenty yolks 
of eggs, and a pound of fugar, an ounce of cinamon, 
and mingle all together. | : 
~ Then have the yolks of twenty eggs more; {train 
them with Rofe-water, a little musk and fiigar, fry 
them in two pancakes witha little {weet butter fine 
and yellow, and being fried, put one of them in a fair 
difh, and lay the former materials on it {pread all overs 
then take the other, and cut it in long flices as broad 
as your little finger, and Jay it over the difhes like a 
lattice window, fet it in the Oven; and bake it a litcle; 
then fry it;"@r. Bake it leifurely. 

ie Another fore’t fryed Difh. : 

~ Makea little paft with yolks of eggs; flower, and 

boiling liquor: pg a ia , 

Then take a quarter of a pound of fugar, a pound of 
marrow, half an ounce of cinamon, and a little ginger. 
Then have fome yolks of Eggsjand mafhyour marrow, 
and a little Rofe-water, musk or amber, and a few 
currans or none, witha little fuet, and make little pat 
ties, fry them with clarified butter, and ferve them 
with {craped fugar, and juyee of orange. 


en é 





Otherways: oh . 
Take good frefh water Eels, flay and mince them 
finall witha warden or two;and {eafon it with pepper; 
cloves, mace, {affron: then put currans, dates; and 
prunes; {mall minced amongft, and a little verjuyce, 
and fry it in little pafties ; bake it inthe oven, ot {tew 
itin a pan in paft of divers forms, or pafties or ftarsscc: 


E 3 To 





*% acs ty 


——-36~—s« The Accomplifot COOK: Or, 


ya Wonk” * 
Se ae = ee Ss ir e 
aS a fh A a Bis e, 
ce ; 


a) 
’ 


To make any kind of fanfages. 


_Eirft, Bolonia Saufages, — 


pre beft way and time of the year is to make them 
in September. | = aes 

. Take four {tone of pork, of the legs the leaneft, and 
take away all the skins, finews, and fat from it; mince 
it fine and {tamp it: then add to it three ounces of whole 
pepper, two ounces of pepper more grofly cracked or 
beaten, whole cloves an ounce, nutmegs an ounce fine- 
ly beaten, falt, {panifh, or peter-falt,an ounce of corian- 

er-feed finely beaten, or carraway -feedjgeinamon an 
ounce fine beaten, lard cut an inch long, as big as your 
liccle finger, and clean without ruft; mingle all the fore- 
faid together;and fill beef guts as full as you can pofiibly, 
and as the wind gathers in the gut, prick them witha 
pin, and {hake them well down with your hands ; for 
ifthey be not well filled, they will be rufty. m 

Thefe aforefaid BoloniaSaufages are moft excellent of 
pork only:but fome ufe buttock beef, with pork,half one 
and as much of the other. Beef and pork are very good. 

Some do ule pork ofa weeks powder for this ufe 

beforefaid, and no more {alt at all. i | 

Some put a little fack in the beating of thefe faufages, 
and put in place of coriander-feed, carraway-feed. 

This is the moft excellent way to make Bolonia 
Saufages,being carefully filled,and tied faft with a pack: 
thred, and f{moaked or {mothered three or four days, 
that will turn them red; then hang them in fome cool 
cellar or higher room to take the air. | 
Other Saufages. | 

Saufages of pork with fome of the fat ofa chine of ba: 
con or pork,fome fage chopped fine and fmall,falt, and 


Peps 


eee eta es re en rege “Heiner EL, Fon ek an 
Ma } *., fi Us 3 ra . ao ; ae CSU 





ax 


The Art and Myftery of Cookery. 37 


pepper: and fill them into porkets guts, or hogs, or 
fheeps guts,or no guts, and let them dry in the chimney 
leifurely, ec. | | 
| Otherways. 3 ; 

~ Mince pork with beef-fuet,and mince fome fage,and Rees: 
put to itfome ‘pepper, falt, cloves, and mace ; make ! 
it into balls, and keep it for your ufe, or rol! them into 

little faufages {ome four or five inches long as big as 

your finger; firy fix or fevenofthem, and ferve them 

ina difh with vinegar or juyce of orange. 

- Thus you may do ofa leg of veal, and put nothing 

but falt and fuet; and being fried, ferve it with gravy 
and juyce of orange or butter and. vinegar; and before 

you fry them flower them.And thus mutton or any meat 

~ Or you may add {weet Herbs or Nutmeg: and thus 


Mutton. | 
‘ Other Saufages. 
Mince fome Buttock-Beef with Beef {uet, beat them 
well together, and feafon it with cloves, mace,pepper, 
and falt: fill the guts, or fry it as before; if in guts, 
boil them and ferve them as puddings. 
. Otherways for change. LAT 

If without guts, fry them and ferve them with gra- 
vy, juyce of orange or vinegar, &c. 

| To make Links. 

Take the raring pieces of pork or hog bacon, or fil- 
lets, or legs, cut the lean into bitsas big as great dice 
{quare, and the fleak in the fame form,half as much;and 
feafon them with good ftore of chopped {age chopt ve- 
ry {mall and fine ; and feafon it alfo with fome pepper, 
nutmeg, cloves, and mace alfo very {mall beaten, and 
falt, and fill porkets guts, or Beef-guts: being well fil- 
led, hang them up and dry them till the falt fhire 
through them ; and when you will {pend them, boil 
them and broil them. E 3 ) To 









38 The Accomplifor COOK: Or, 








- To make all manner of Hathes. | 


Firft, of raw Beeef. 

MES: it very {mall with fome Beef- fuet or lard, 

fome {weet herbs, pepper, falt, {ome cloves, and 
mace sblanched chefnuts, or almonds blanched, and put 
in whole, fome nutmeg, anda whole onion or two, and 
ftew it finely i ina pipkin with fome ftrong -broth th¢ 
{pace of two hours, put alittle claret to it, and ferve it 
on fippets finely carved, with fome grapes or lemon i in 
it alfo, or barberries, and blow off the fat. 

Othermays. 

"Stew itin Beef gobbets, and cut fome fat and lean to. 
gether as big as a good pullets egg, and put them into a 
pot or pipkin with fome Carrots. cut in pieces as big as 
a walnut, fome whole onions, fome parfnips, large 
mace, a fagcot of {weet herbs, falc, pepper, cloves, and 
as much-water and wine as will cover them, and ftew 
it the {pace of three hours. 

2. Beef halhed otherways, of the Buttock, - 

Cat it into ane {lices, and hack them with the back 
of your knife, then fry them with fweet butter 5 and 
being fried put them ina pipkin with fome claret, 
ftrong broth, or gravy, cloves, mace, pepper, fal, anc 
{weet- butter ; being render {tewed the {pace of an hour, 
ferve them on fine fippets, with flic’t lemon, goofe: 
berries, barberries, or grapes, and fome beaten butter. 
| 3. Beef hajbed otherways. 

Cut fome buttock-beef into fine thin flices, and halt 
as many {lices of fine interlarded Bacon, ftew it very 
welland tender, with fome claret and firong Broth. 
cloves, mace, pepper, and falt; being tender ftewec 
the {pace of two ROUTES, fer ve them on fine carvec 
lippets, Ge mply 


°p 


ee ee gp te 8 








e 4. A Halb of Bullocks Gheeks. 

Take the flefh from the bones, then with a fharp 
Knife flice them in thin flices like Scotch collops, and 
fry them in {weet butter a little ; then-put them into a 
Pipkin with gravy or ftrong broth and claret, and falr, 
chopped fage, and nutmeg, {tew them the {pace of two 


hours, or till they be tender, then ferve them on fine 


carved fippets, ec. 


| Hathes of Neats Feet, or any Feet ; as Calves, Sheeps, Dears, 


Hogs, Lambs, Pres, Fawns, or the like, many of the 
ways follwing. 


Boil them very tender, and being cold, mince them . 


{mall, then put currans to them, beaten cinamon, hard 

eggs minced, capers, {weet lierbs minced {mall, cloves, 

mace, fugar, white-wine, butter,flic’t lemon or orange, 

flic’t almonds, grated bread, faftron,fugar, goofeberries, 

barberries or grapes; and being finely {tewed down, 

ferve them on fine carved fippets. 
2. Neats Feet hafbed otherwile. 

Cut them in peices, being tender boild,and put to them 
fome chopped onions, parfly,time butter,mace,pepper, 
vinegar,falc, and {ugar: being finely {tewed ferve them 
on fine carved fippets,barberries,and fugar;, {ometimes 
thicken the broth with yolks of raw eggs and verjuice, 
run it over with beaten butter, and {ometimesno {ugar. 

3. Halhing otherways of any Feet 
Mince them {mall, and ftew them with white wine, 
butter, currans, raifins, marrow, fugar, prunes, dates, 
cinamon, mace, ginger, pepper, and ferve them on 
tofts of fried manchet. 
Sometimes diffolve the yolks of eggs. 
. Neats Feet, or any eet otherways 

Being tender boil’dand foufed,part them and fry them 

in {weet butter fine and brown;difh them in a clean dith 
E4 with 


The Art and Myftery of Cookery. 39° 





> fool. iar TaN a ee a ee OS = a 7 
‘ oe re sii i BaP vias 0 (Pine 
¢ a: shame I = . 








aN The ie COOK: Oe ak 


with fome muftard and fweet Butter, and fry onal 7 
flic’t onions, and lay them all over the 9p 5 run thent 
over with beaten Butter. : 





5. Neats-feet, or other Feet otherways ised a 
Or 1 pieces fiewed. 4 


Take boil’d onions, and put your feet in a eae 
with the onions aforefaid being fliced,and cloves,mace, 
white wine, and fome {trong broth and falt, being al- 
moft ftewed or boil’ d, put to it fome butter and ver-_ 
juyce, and fugar, give it a warm or two more, ferve it | 
on fine fippets, and run it over with {weet Butter. 


6. Neats-feet otherways, or any Leet frt- 
cafed, or Trotters. 


Being boil’d tender and cold, take out the hair on 
wool between the toes, part them in halves, and fry: 
them in butter ; being fryed, put away the Butter, and 
put to them grated nutmeg, falt,and {trong Broth, 
Then being fine and tender, have fome yolks of eggs 
difiolved with vinegar or verjuyce, fome nutmeg in the 
eggs alfo, and into the eggs put a piece of Frefh But- 
_ter, and put away the frying : and when you are ready. 

to difh up your meat, put in the eggs, and give it a toy 
or sige in ie pan, and pour it ina ai difh. 
I. To hath Neats-tongues, or any Tongues. 
Being frefh and tender boil’d, and cold, cut them in- 
to thin flices,fry them in {weet butter,and put to them 
fome ftrong broth, cloves, mace, faffron, falt, nutmegs - : 
erated, yolks of eggs, gr fe. verjuyce + and the tongue 
being fine and thick, witha tofs or two in the pan, difh , 
it on fine {ippets. 

Sometimes you may leave out-cloves and maces = 
for variety put beaten cinamon, fugar, and {affron, and _ 
make it more brothy, 2, To ) 


a « <q 





: 
a 





The Art and Myftery of Cookery. © 41 

“S 2. To halh a Neats-Tongue otherways. | 
Slice it into thin flices,no broader than a three pence, 
and ftew it ina difh or pipkin with fome ftrong broth, 
a little fliced onion of the fame bignefs of the tongue, 
and {ome falt, put to fome mufhrooms, and nutmeg, or 
mace, and ferve it on fine fippets, being well ftewed ; 
rub the bottom of the difh with a clove or two of gar- 
lick or mince a raw onion very {mall and put in the bor- 
tom of the difh, and beaten butter run over the tops of 

your difh of meat, with lemon cut {mall. 


3. To hah a Tongue otherwile, either whole or in flices. 


Boil it tender, and blanch it; and being cold’ fliceit. 
in thin flices, and put to it boil’d chefnuts or rofte,fome 
ftrong broth, a bundle of {weet herbs, large mace, 
white endive, pepper, wine, a few cloves, fomeca- 
pers, marrow or butter, and fome falt ; {tew it well 
together, and ferve it on fine carved fippets, garnifh ic 
on the meat, with goofeberries, barberries, or lemon. 

#e . To hal a Tongue otherways. 

Being boild tender, blanch it, and let it cool, then 
{lice it in thin flices, and put it ina’ pipkin with fome 
mace and raifins, flic’t dates, fome blanched almonds; 
piftaches,-claret or white whine, butter, verjuyce,fugar, 
and {trong broth ; being well ftewed, {train in fix eggs, 
the yolks being boil’d hard, or raw, give ita warm, 
and dith up the tongue on fine {ippets. 

Garnifh the difh with fine fugar, or fine fearced 
manchet, lay lemonon your meat flic’t, run it over 
with beaten butter, ec. Mrentigrr os ” | 

5. Lo halh a Neats Tongue otherways 

Being boild tender,flice it in thin flices,and put it ina 
pipkin with fome currans, dates, cinamon, pepper,jmar- 
row,whole mace,verjuy ce,eggs,butter, bread spp 
ee i ys aM eng 









A2 The Accomplifht COOK: Or, — 
being finely ftewed, ferve iton: fine fippets, with bea= 
ten butter, fugar, {trained eggs, verjuyce, Gc. ’ 
ete 6. To few a Neats Tongue whole. omg 
Take a frefh neats tongue raw,make a hole in the low- 
er end,and take out fome of the meat,mince itwith fome 
_ Bacon orBeef fuet, and fome {weet herbs, and put inthe © 
~ yolks of an egg or two, fome nutmeg, falt,and fome gra- 
_ ted parmifan or fat cheefe,pepper,and gingersmingle all 
together, and fill the hole in the tongue, then rap a caul 
or skin of mutton about it, and bind it about the end of © 
the tongue,boil it till ic will blanch: and being blanched, — 
wrap aboutit the caul of veal with fome of the forcing, © 
roaft it a little brown,and putit ina pipkin,and ftew: it - 
with fome claret and {trong broth, cloves, mace, falt, 
pepper, fome {trained bread, or grated manchet, fome 
fiveet herbs chopped {mall, marrow, fried onions and” 
apples amongtt ; and being finely ftewed down, ferve 
it on fine carved {ippets, with barberries and flic’t le- 
mon, andrun it over with beaten Butter. Garnifh 
the difh with grated or fearced manchet. — 
7. To ftew a Neats Tongue otherways, whole, or in pi 
: boiled, blanch tt, or not. : 
Take a tongue and put it a ftewing between two difhes 
being raw,& frefh,put fome ftrong brothto it and white 
wine,with fome whole cloves, mace,and pepper whole, 
fome capers,falt, turnips cut like lard,or carrots,or any 
roots, and {tew all together the fpace of two or three 
hours leifurely,then blanch it,and put fome marrow to — 
it, give it a warm’or two, and ferve it on fippets finely. 
carved, and {trow on fome minced lemon and barbe- 
ries or grapes,and run all over with beaten Butter.’ — 
Garnih your difh with fine grated manchec finely 
fearced 8. To boil a Tongue otherways. HEE 
Salt a tongue twelve hours,or boil itin water & ig 
till 





eces, 


a ey A Bg i oe ts 5 A 
oe : “ae 4 Lae 


ET I 3. Art and Myftery of Cookery. 43 


till itbe tender, blanch it, and being finely boil’d, dith 
it inaclean difh, and ftuff it with minced lemon, mince 
the rind, and f{trow over all, and ferve it with fome of 
the Gallendines, or fome of the Italian fauces, as you 
may fee in the book of fauces. 9: 
To boil a Neats Tongue otherways, of three or four 
i: days powder, : 
Boil it in fair water, and ferve it on brewice,with boi- 
led turnips and onions, run it over with beaten Butter, 
and ferve it on fine carved fippets, fome barberries; - 
soosberries, or grapes,and ferve it with fome of the fau- 
ces, as you may feein the book of all manner of {auces, 
To Fricas a Neats Tongue, or any Tongue. : 
Being tender boil’d, flice| it into thin {lices, and fry 
it with {weet Butter, then put away your Butter, and 
put fome {trong broth,nutmeg, pepper,and {weet herbs 
chopped {mall, {ome grapes or barberries picked, and — 
fome yolks of eggs, or verjuyce, grated bread, or ftam- 
ped Almonds and {trained. 
- Somtimes you may add fome Saffron. 
Thus udders may be dreffed in any of the ways of 
the Neats-Tongues beforefaid. : 


To hath any Land-Fowl, as Turky, Capon, Pheafant, or 
Partrtdges, or any Lowls, being roafted and cold, ~ 
Roaft the Fowls for Hajhes. fe 
Take a capon, hafh the wings,and {lice it into thin {li- 
ces, but leave the rump and the legs whole; mince the 
‘wings into very thin flices,no bigger then a three pence in 
breadth,and put it in a pipkin witha litrle {trong brorh, 
nutmeg,fome flic’t mufhroms, or pickled mufhroms,& 
an onion very thin flic’t no bigger than the winced ca pon 
being well ftew’d down witha little butter & gravy,dith 
it on fine fippets,& lay che rump or rumps whole on the 
ae x 3 ae minced 








jg The Acomplifi COOK: Om 


minced meat, alfo the legs whole, ‘and run it over with 
beaten Butter, flices of lemon, and lemon peel whole. — 
Yo a Collops, or hafhed Veal, : el 
-Takea leg of Veal,and cut it into flices as thin as an 
half crown piece, and as broad as your hand, and hack 
them with theback of a knife, then lard them with 
{mall lard good and thick,end fry them with fweet but- 
ter; being fryed,make fauce with butter,vinegar,fome 
chopped time amongtft,and yolks of eggs diflolved with 
juice of oranges ; give them a tofsor twoin the pan, 
and fo put them in a difh with a little gravy, &c. ; 
-'Or you may make other fauce of mutton gravy, 
juyce of lemon and grated nutmeg. - hia 
A Halh of any Tongues, Neats Tongues, Sheeps Tongues, or 
o any great or {mall Tongues. va 
Being tender boil’d and cold, cut them in thin flices, 
and fry them in {weet butter ; then put them in a pip- 
kin witha pint of Claret wine, and fome beaten-cina- 
mon, ginger, fugar, falt, fomecapers, or famphire, and » 
fome fweet butter; ftew it well down til! the passe be. 
half wafted, and now and then ftir it : being finely and 
leifurely ftewed, ferve.iton fine carved fippets, and 
wring on the juyce of a lemon, and marrow, @&c. 

_ Or fometimes lard them whole, toft them, and ftew — 
them as before,and puta few carraways,and large mace, 
fugar,marrow, chefnuts : ferve them on fried tofts,ec 

To make other Hafbes of Veal. : 

Take a filletof Veal with the udder, roft it; and be- 

ing rofted,cut away the frothy flapsand cut it into thine 
flicessthen mince it very fine,with 2 handfuls of french 
capers, & currans one handful; and feafon it witha lit- 
tle beaten nutmeg, ginger,mace,cinamon, and a handful 
of fugar,and ftew thefe with a pound of butter,a quarter 

of a pint of vinegar, as much caper liquor, a faggot of 
a eebsi Sey} weet 





- 
» Sars ‘* 
, . 

y vee 








fweet herbs, and:a little fale;- Let all thefe boil foftly. 

the {pace of two hours, now and then ftirring it; be- 

ing finely {tewed,difh it up, and ftick about it fried toft, 
or ftock fritters, ec. : 

Or’to this forefaid Hafh, you may add fome yolks of 
hard eggs minced among the meat,or minced and ming- 
led, and put whole currans, whole capers, and fome 
white wine. ) | 

_ Or to this forefaid Hafh, you may, being hafhed, 
put nothing but beaten Butter only with lemon, and 
the meat cut like {quare dice, and ferve it with beaten 
butter and lemon on fine carved fippets. ee 

| To Hajh a Hare. 

_ Cut itin two pieces, and wath off the hairs in water 
and wine, {train the liquor, and parboil the quarters ; 
then take them and put them into a difh with the legs, 
fhoulders, and head whole, and the chine cut in two or 
three pieces, and put toit two or three grate onions 
whole, and fome of the liquor where it was parboil’d: 
ftew it between two difhes tillit be tender, then put’ 
to itfome pepper, mace, nutmeg, and ferve it on fine 
carved fippets, and.run it over with beaten butter, le- 
mon, fome marrow, and barberries. 

To halh or boil Ralits divers ways, either in quarters or 
 flices cut like {mall dice, or whole, or minced. 3 
Take a rabit being flayed, and wiped clean, cut off 

the legs, thighs, wings, and head, and part the chine in- 
to four pieces or fix; putall intoa difh, and put to ita 
pint of white wine, as much fair water, and grofs pep- 

per, flicd ginger, fome falt butter, a little time and o- 
ther {weet herbs finely minced,and two or three blades 
ofmace, {téw it the {pace of two hours leifurely;and a 
little before you dith it, take the yolks of fix new laid 
eggs, and diflolve them with fome grapes, verjuyce, or 

WiRe 


© 






eh ae See ie, enh on pee 7 
Tw yet ge a ee 
Y re, : > 





46 ‘The Accomplifht COO 


wine vinegar, give ita warm or twoonthe fire, till — 
the broth be fomewhat thick, then put ic in a clean 
difh, with faltabout the difh, and ferve ithot» = = 
A Rabit hafbed otherways,° 

Stew it between tiwo difhes in quarters,as the former; . 
or in peices as long as your finger, with fome ftrong — 
broth, mace, a bundle of {weet herbs; and falt; Being — 





cate gne AMR oh 


Asi ; = Spree # a! oe . ” 
. 7 ’ . Fy % { é * 

& O + , #9 
K: Or; ai 


‘4 
. 








~ well ftewed, ftrain the yolks of two hard eggs with — 


them ftew lcifarely with fome mace the fpace of 2 hours 


fome of the broth; and put it into the broth where | 
the Rabit ftews; then have fome cabbidge lettice boi- 
led in water ; and being boild {queeze away the water; 
and put them in beaten Butter, with a few raifiris of — 
the Sun boiled in water alfo by themfelves; or in place — 
Of lettice ufe whiteendive. ‘Then being finely {tew- 
ed, difh up the rabit on fine carved fippets, and lay ont — 
it macé; lettice in quarters, raifins, grapes, lemons, fu- — 
gar, goofeberries, or barberries, and broth it withthe — 
former Broth. Reape, 

Thus chickens, or capons, or partridg, and ftrained 
almonds in this Broth for change. 

Tohafha Rabit otherways, with a forcing in his bel- — 
ly of mirticed {weet herbs, yolks of hard eggs, parfley; — 
pepper, and currants, and fill his belly: 


“To hath Rabits, Chickens, or Pigeons; either in peices; 
or whole, with Taxmps. | 
Boil either the rabits or fowls in water and falt, of — 
{trained oatmeal and fale. ee 
Take turnips,cut them in flices,and after cat them like 
fmall lard an inch long, the quantity of a quart,and put 
them in a pipkin with a pound of Butter,threé or four 
fpoonfuls of {trongBroth,and a quarter ofa pintof wine — 
vinegar;{ome pepperand ginger,fugar and falt; and let 





being 





being very finely ftewed, put them into. beaten Butter, 
eaten with cream and yolks of eggs, then ferve them 
upon fine thin toafts of French Bread. | toi 4 

Or otherways,being ftewed as aforefaid without eggs, 
cream,or butter,ferve them as formerly.And thefe will 


ferve for boil’dChickens,or any kind of fow] for garnith. 


To make a Bisk the beft way. 

Take a leg of Beefand a Knuckle of veal, boil them 
in two gallons of fair water, {cam them clean, and put 
to them fome cloves, and mace, then boil them from 
two gallons to three quarts of Broth 3 being boil’d ftrain 
it and Ps it ina pipkin, when it is cold, take off the 
fat and bottom, clear it into another clean pipkin ; and 
keep it warm till the Bisk be ready. ! 

Boil the Fow!] in the liquor of the Marrow-Bones of 
fix peeping chickens, and {1x peeping pigeons in a clean 
pipkin, either in fome Broth, or in water and falt. 
Boil the marrow by it felfin a pipkin in the fame 
broth with fome falt. 
_ Then have pallats,nofes,lips,boil’d tender,blancht and 
cut into bits as big as fixpence; alfo fome fheeps tongues 
boil’d,blancht, larded,fryed, and ftewed in gravy, with 
fome chefnuts blanched ; alfo fome cocks combs boil’d 
“and blanched, and fome knots of Eggs, or yolks of 
hard eggs. Stew all the aforefaidin {ome roft mutton; 
or beef gravy, with fome piftaches, large mace,a good 
big onion or two, and fome falt. 
‘Then have lamb ftones blancht and flic’t, alfo fweet- 
breads of veal,and fiweet-breads of lamb flit,fome great 
oyfters parboil’d,and fome cock ftones.Fry the forefaid 
materials in clarified butter,fome fryed {pinage,orA lex- 
ander leaves,& keep them warm inan oven,with fome 
fried faufages made of minced bacon,veal,yolks of eggs, 
: | nutmegs 


* 













ie 


48 out The Acconrplifht COOK: Or, 


nutmegs, fweet herbs, falt and piftachess bake it in an 
oven in cauls of veal, and being baked and cold, flice it 
round, fry it, and keep it warm in the oven with the” 


forefaid fried things. 


To make little Pies for the Bisk, 
~ Mince a leg of Veal, or a leg of Mutton with fome 
interlarded bacon raw and feafoned with a litcle falr; 
nutmeg, pepper, fome {weet herbs, piftaches, grapes, 
goofebetries, barberries, and yolks of hard eggs, in 4 
quarters; mingle all together, fill them, and clofe'them — 
up ;and being baked liquor them with gravy, and bea: 
ten butter, or mutton broth. Make the paft ofa pot- — 
tle of fower, halfa pound of butter, fix yolks of eggs,” 
and boil the liquor and butter together: es? 

To make gravy for the Buk, ton ® 

Roatt eight pound of buttock beef, and two legs of © 
mutton, being throughly roafted, prefs out the gravy; 
and wath them with fome mutton broth, and when 
youhave done, ftrainit, and keep it warm in aclean 
pipkin for your prefentufe. | ety, 

| To div the Buk, a 
Takea great eight pound dith, and a fix penny french 
pinemolet or bread, chip it and flice itinto large flices, 
and cover all the bottom of the difh; fcald it or fteep ” 
it well with your ftrong broth, and upon that fome— 
mutton or beef gravy; then difh up the fowl on the 
difh, and round the dith the fried tongues in gravy with © 
the lips, pallats, piftaches, eggs, nofes, chefnuts, and 
cocks combs,andrunthem over the fowls with fome 
ofthe gravy, and large mace. | et 
Then again runit over with fried fweetbread,faufage, 
Jamb-ftones, cock-ftones, fried fpinage, or alexander 
Jeaves,then the marrow over all;next the carved lemons: 
| | — upon 


+4 





Pe MeN ADA NN SOM Pere TR ae en) ET ee 





den abe Art and Myftery of Cookery. 49 
upon the meat, and run it over with the beaten butter, 
yolks of eggs,and gravy beat up together till it is thick; 
then garnifh the dith with the little pies, Dolphins of 
puff-pafte, chefnuts,boiled and fried oyfters; and yolks — 


of hard eggs: Dvr edt hee 3 
| , To Boil Chines of Veal. 
_ Firft, ftew them ina ftewing pan or betweentwo | 
difhes, with fome ftrong broth of either veal or mutton, 
fomeé white wine; and fome faufages made of minced 
veal or pork, boil up the chines,fcum them, and put in 
two or three blades of large mace, a few cloves,oyfter 
or caper liquor with a little falt ; and being finely boil’d 
down put in fome good. mutton or beef-gravy ; anda 
quarter. of an hour before you difh them, have all man- 
nér of {weet herbs pickt and ftript,as tyme, {weet mar- 
joram,{favory; parfley, bruifed with the back of a ladle, 
‘and give themtwo or three walms on the fire\in the 
broth ; then difh the chines in thin {lices of tine French 
bread; broth them, and lay on them fome. boiled beef- 
-Iarrow, boild in {trong broth, fome {lic’t lemon, and 
‘run all over witha lear made of beaten butter, the yolk 
_of an egg or two,thejuyce of two or three oranges,and 
fome gravy, @c. ed , 
| To boilor frew any Foynt of Mutton. . 
_ Take a whole loin of mutton being jointed, put it into 
a long ftewing pan or large difh,in as much fair water as 
will more than half cover itjand when it is {cum’d cover 
it; but firft put in fomé falt,white wine, and carrots cut 
into dice-work,and when the broth is half boiléd ftrain 
it, blow off the fat, and wafh away the dregs from the 
mutton,wath alfo the {tew-pan or pipkin very clean,and 
-put in again the broth into the panor pipkin,with fome. | 
capers, large mace,and carrots;being wafhed,put them in 
again; and ftew them foftly, a the mutton by in fome 
| ¥ ~~ Warn 








ae The Accomplifht COOK: Or, 


warm place,or broth, ina pipkin;then put in fome fweet 
herbs chopped with an onion,and put it to your broth al- 
_ fo, then have colliflowers re ady boild in water and falt, 
put them into beaten butter with fome boil’d marrow: 
then the mutton and broth being ready, diflolve two or 
three yolks of eggs, with white wine, verjuyce,or fack, 
and give it 2 walm ortwo; then difh up the meat,and 
lay on the colliflowers,goofeberries,capers,marrow,car- 
rots, and grapes or barberries,and run-it over with bea- 
ten butter. a sd 
For the garnifh according to the feafon of the year, 
fparagus, artichocks, parfnips, turnips, hopbuds, cole- 
worts,cabbidge-lettice, chef{nuts,cabbidge-{prouts. > 
~ Sometimes for more variety, for thickning of this 
broth, {trained almonds, with {trong mutton broth. — 


To boil a Rack, Chine, or Loin of Mutton a moft excellent 
Pie way, etther whole or 1m pieces. 
Boil it either in a flat large pipkin or ftewing pan,with 

as much fair water as will cover the meat, and when it 

boils {ctim it,and put thereto fome fale ; and being half 
boiled take up the meat, and ftrainthe Broth, blow off 
the fat,and wath the ftewing-pan and the meat fromthe 
dregs, then again putin the crag endof the rack of 

‘mutton to make the Broth good, with fome maces then 

a little before you take it up, take a handful of picked 

parfley, chop it very {mall,and put it in the Broth, with 

{ome whole marigold flowers ; put in the ching again, 

and give ita walm or two, then difh it on fine fippets, 

and broth it,then add thereto raifins of the fun,and cur: 

rans ready boil’dand warm, lay them over the chine o} 

mutton, then garnifh the difh with marigold-flowers. 

mace,lem9n,and barberries. Lage ER | 

_., Other ways for change without fruits 



















ECT ETT FE IC SOREN TL Wi geome Mb ce ol eee 
} MALS 5s, ay yee se ieee ; q 
Vow - ‘teats ; Cera g 





eas > vee 
> vee ; ‘Hel 


Loco® 


_ - Lhe Art and Myftery of Cookery. 51 





To boil 4 Chine of Mutton 12 Barley broth,or Chines, ; : 


Racks, and Knuckles of Veal. 
__ Take achine of veal or mutton and joyntit,put it ina 


pipkin with fome ftrong mutton broth, and when it 


boils and is cummed, put in fome french barley, being 
firft boiled in fair water,put into the broth fome large 
mace and fome {weet herbs bound up in a bundleja lit- 
tle rofemary, tyme,winter-favory, falt,and {weet mar- 
joram, bind them up very hard ; and put in fome raifins 
of the fun, fome good pruens, currans, and marigold- 
flowers;boil it up to an indifferent thicknefs,and ferve 
it on fine fippets; garnifh the difh.with fruit and mari- 
gold-flowers,mace,lemon,and boil’d matrow. 
Otherways without fruit, puc fome good mutton 


gravy, and fometimes raifins only. 
ee To ftew a Chine of Mutton or Veal. Op 
Put it ina pipkin with {trong broth and white wine, 
and when it boils {cumit, and put to fome oyfter-li- 
quor; falt, whole pepper, a bundle of {weet herbs wel! 
bound up, two or three blades of large mace, a whole 
onion,with fome interlarded bacon cut into dice work, 
fome chefnuts, and fome capers,then have fome ftewed 
oyfters by themfelves, as you may feein the Book of 
Oyfters. The chines being ready, garnifh the difh with 
great oytters fried and {tewed,mace,chefnuts,and lemon 
peel ; difh up the chines in. a fair difh on fine fippets, 
broth it,and garnith the chines with ftewed. oytters ; 
shefnuts,mace,flic’t lemon and fome fried oyfters. 
To make a difh of Steaks, ftewed in a Frying pan. 
Take them and fry them in {weet butter ; being half 
ried,put out the butter,&put to them fome good {trong 
ale, pepper, falt, a fhred onion,and nutmeg ; ftew them 
Well together, and difh site on fippets, ferve them 
2 | an 














~ TS pee 
4 ‘s 


lifbt COOK: 





Bing? f Atos 
. é 


a cet re 


52 | : ‘ The Accomp 





Orne. 
and pour on the fauce with fome beaten butter, ee. 
7 To make ftewd Broth. | 


Take a knuckle of veal,a joint of mutton,loin or rack, 
two marrow-bones,a capon, and boil chemin fair wa- 
ter, {cum them when they boil, and put tothem a bun- 
dle of {weet herbs bound. up hard andclofe; then add: 
fome large mace, whole cinamon; and fome ginger, 
bruifed and put in a fine clean cloth bound up faft, and 
a few whole cloves, fome {trained manchet, or beaten 
oatmeal {trained and put to the broth; then have prunes 
and currans boil’d and ftrain’d; then put in fome whole 
raifins, currans, fome good damask prunes,and boil not 
~ the fruit too much, about half an hour before you difh 
your meat, put into the broth a pint of claret wine,and 
’ fome {ugar ; difhup the meat on fine fippets, broth it, 
and garnifh the difh with flic’t Lemons, prunes, mace, 
raifins, currans, {craped fugar, and barberries; garnifh 
the meat inthe difh alfo. B] Cnet 
Stewed Broth in the new Mode or Fafion, 
Take ajoynt of mutton, rack, or loin, and boil them 
in pieces or whole in fair water, {cum them, and being 
{cummed and half boil’d, take up the mutton, and wafh 
away the dregs from the meat 5 ftrain the broth, and 
blow away the fat; then put the broth intoa clean pip+ 
kin, witha bundle of {weet herbs bound up hard ; then 
put thereto fome large mace, raifins of the fun boil’d 
and {train’d, with half as many prunes alfo fome faf- 
fron, a few whole cloves, pepper, falt, claret wine, and 
fugar ; and being finely {tewed together, a little before 
you difhit up, putin themeat, and giveit a walmor 
two; difhicup., and ferve iton fine carved fippets. © 
To ftew a Loin, Rack, or any Foynt of Mutton othermays, * 
_Chop a loin into fteaks,lay it ina deep difh or ftewing 
‘pan, and put to ic halfa pine of claret, and as much wa- 
ters 







2 









PCR ee Oy, eT Me Mace Ue eg eee sel P|. 
seer ha A BE ela acl ke AM a aaa ahi, <i 


ah 








ter,falt, and pepper,three or four whole onions,a faggot 
of {weet herbs bound up hard,and fome large mace,co- 
ver them clofe,and ftew them leifurely:the {pace of two 
hours,turn them now & then,and ferve tiem on fippets. 
~ Otherways for change,being half boiled,put to them 

fome {weet herbs chopped,give thema walm,and ferve 
them on fippets with {calded goofeberies, barberries, 
grapes, or lemon. | 

Sometimes for variety put Raifins, Prunes, Currans, 
Dates,and ferve them with flic’t lemon, beaten butter. 

Othertimes you may alter. the {pices,and put nutmeg, 
cloves,ginger,@c. 

Sometimes to the firft plain way put capers, pickled 
cucumbers, famphire,ec. | 

Y Otherwayes. ) 

Stew it between two difhes with fair water, and 
when it boils,fcum it,and put in three or four blades of 
large mace,grofs pepper,cloves,and falt;ftew them clofé 
covered two hours, then have parfley picked,andfome 
ftript,fine {pinage, forrel , favory, and {weet marjoram 
chopped with fome onions,put them to your meat,and 
sive ita walm,with fome grated bread amongit them; 
then difh them on carved fippets, blow off the fat on 
the broth, and broth it, layalemonon it-and beaten 
butter, and {tew it thus whole. aiboertiot” 


To dvefs or force a Leg of Veal a fingular good way, 
172. the neweft Mode, eee 


Take a leg of veal,take out the meat, and leave the 


skin and the fhape of the leg whole together,mince the 


Meat that came out ofthe leg with fome_ beef-fuet or 
Tard,and fome {weet herbs minced ; then feafon it with 
pepper, nutmeg, ginger,and cloves,all being fine beaten, 
ae EZ a: with 


| The Art and Myftery of Cookery. pis | 


7 








with fonie falt,a clove or two of garlick, three or four 
yolks of hard eggs in quarters, pine-apple feed, two or 
three raw eggs,alio piftaches, chefnuts, & fome quarters 
of boil’d artichocks bottoms, fill the leg and foweit up, 
boil it ina pipkin with two gallons of fair water and. 
fome white wine;being {cumnrd and almoft boil’'d,take 
up fome broth into a difh er pipkin, and put toit fome 
chefnuts, piftaches, pine-apple-feed, fome large mace, 
marrow, and artichocks bottoms boil'd and cut into 
quarters, {tew all the forefaid well together ; then have 
dome fried toft of manchet or rowls finely carved. The 
leg being well boil’d, ( dainty and tender) difh it on 
French bread, fry fome toaft of it, and fippets round 
about it,broth it,and put on it marrow, and your other 
materials,a flic’t lemon,and lemon peel, and run it over 
with beaten butter. ONT # i Vie 
Thicken the broth fometimes with almond patte ftrain- 
ed with fome of the broth, or for variety, yolks of eggs 
and faftron ftrained with fome of the broth; or faffron 
only.One may add fometimes fome of the minced meat 
made up into balls, and ftewed amongft the broth, ec. 
<< Jo boil a Leg or Kuuckle of Veal with Rice. °° 
Boil it ina pipkin,put fome falt to it,and {cum it,then 
‘put to fome mace and fome rice finely picked and wath- 
ed, fome raifins of the fun and gravy ; being fine and 
tender boil’d put in fome faffron, and ferve on fine car- 
ved fippets, with the rice over all, ar Oe 
Otherwayes with pafte cut like fmall lard, and boil 
it in thin broth and faffron. | 
~ Or otherways in white broth,with fruit, fweet herbs, 
white wine and goofeberries. : erin ae 
gag To botl a Breaft of Veal. Sd 
Joynt it well and parboil it a little,then put it ina ftew- 
ing pan or deep difh with fome ftrong brothanda megan 


: ues 


Se De ry syria tue nme Th PF ke oe Ap aR ATTY eM ermal ge AOR een Me Cr pen ORD wpe 
bite s ‘\ ; = 4 partes ere & ” fi Shee ie 

j ia } yi al ts pos 

: 


f ~The Art and Myfeery of. Goakery. eo ae 


‘of {weet herbs well bound up, fome large mace, and 
fome flices of interlarded bacon, two or three cloves, 
fome capers, famphire, falt, {pinage, yolks,of hard eggs, 
and white wine; ftew all thefe well togerher, being 
tender boil'd, ferveic on fine carved fippets, and“oroth 
it. then have fome fryed {weetbreads, faufage: of veal 
or pork, garlick or none, and runall over wirh beaten 
butter, lemon, and fryed parfley over all. © Thus you 
may boil a rack or loin of Veal. Hi 
_.-.., To boil a Breaft of Veal otherways. .. 

.. Make.a pudding of grated manchet, minced iuet, and 
minced veal, feafon it with nutmeg, pepper, falr, three 
or four eggs, cinamon,dates, currans, raifins of the jun, 
fome grapes, fugar,and cream; mingle all together, fil 
the breaft, prick ic up, and {tew it between two difh- 
es with white wine,ftrong broth, mace, dates, and mar- 
row, being finely ftewed {erve it on fippets, and run it 
over with beaten butter, lemon, barberries or grapes: 
.. Sometimes thick it. with fome almond-milk, fugar, 


and cream. — 
59h ».--Lo force. a.Breaft of Feal. 

_Mince.fome veal or mutton with fome beet-fuet or fat 
bacon,fome{weet herbs minced,& feafoned with fome 
cloves,mace,nutmeg,pepper,two or three raw eggs,and 
falt; then prick it up-the. breaft being filled at the lower 
end ftew it between two difhes, with fome {trong broth, 
white wine, and large mace; then an hour after have 
{weet herbs pickt and ftript,as tyme,forrel, parfley,and 
{weet marjoram, bruifed with the back ofa ladle, put it 
into your broth with fome marrow, and give thema 
warm; then difhup your breaft of veal on fippets finely 
carved, brothit, and lay onflic’t lemon, marrow,mace 
and barberries, and run it over with beaten butter. 
Ifyou will have the broth yellow put thereto faf- 
fron, ec. | F 4 sataiied 











“ a v 


To botl a Leg of Veal. 
Stuff it with beef-fuet, fweet herbs chopped,nutmeg — 
and falt,and boil it in fair water and falts then take fome 
of ti:e broth,and put thereto fome capers, currans, large 
mace,a piece of interlarded bacon,two or three whole ~ 
cloves, fieces of pears, fome boil’d artichocks fuckers; — 
fome beaten butter,boil’d marrow,and mace; then be. 
fore you aith it up, have forrel,fage,parfley,time fweet 
marjoram, courfly minced with two or three cuts of a 
knife, aad bruifed withthe back of a ladleon a clean 
boar¢;pat them into your broth to make irgreen,Segive ) 
ita walm or two, thendifhit up on fine carved ‘fippets, — 
pour on the broth,and then your other materialsforte — 
goofeberries,barberries, beaten butter and lemon. 8? 
alae To boil a Leg of Mutton, 93 
Take a fair leg of mutton, boil it in waterand fale © 
make fauce with gravy,wine vinegar, white wine; fale, 
butter ,nutmeg,and ftrong broth; and being well ftew- — 
ed together, difhit upon fine‘carved fippets;/and pour 
on your broth. és Oo Seinibauor ines | 
~Garnith. your‘difh with barberties, capers, and flic’t © 
lemon,and garnifh the leg of mutton with THefame ear. — 
nifh and run it over with beaten butter{lic’t lenioitjahd 
Srated nutmeg? 7) 9 OG SOAS ae ae are 
= To boil a Leg of Mutton otherways) 8002 
Take a good leg of mutton, and boil it‘in'water and — 
falt,being {tuffed with {weet herbs chopped with beef 
fuet,fome fale and nutmeg;then being almoft boil’d take — 
up fome of the broth into a pipkin,and put ‘to it feme 
large mace,a few currans,a handfal of Fréench’€apers, a 
little fack, the yolks of three or four hard eggs minced 
{mall,and fome lemon tut like fquare dice; being finely 
boil'd,difh it oncarved {ippéts,broth it and rin it over 
with beaten butter, and lemon: fhred {mall 9. 


ons 
‘ = 4 
Ue 
re 
lea 5 
De 
i: S 
ry 
’ 
x 
4 
i 


a 


. CIOS 
ao pet go WD 


s 


> 
S- 7? 





a The Art Lol Myftery of Cookery. 3 57 | 


ie A poe Otherways. a ee 
Stuff a leg of mutton with parfley being finely pick- 
€d; boil it in water and falt, and ferve iton a fair dith 
with parfley and verjuyce in faucers. 
SHE. 3515, Otherways. 

Boil it in water and falt not ftuffed,and being boiled, 
ftuffit with lemon in bits like {quare dice, and ferve it 
with the peel cut {quare round about it; make fauce 
with the gravy,beaten butter,lemon,and grated nutmeg. 
SEO VBL OG Otherways. | 7 
““Boilic in water and falt,being {tufted with parfley, 
make fatice for it with large mace,gravy, chopped par- 
fley butter, vinegar, juyce of orange, goofeberries, bar- 
berries, grapes,and fugar,ferve it on fippets. 


Torboil peeping Chickens, the beft. and-rareft way, alamsode, 
» "Take three'or four French manchets,&being chipped, 
cut a round hole in the top of them, take out the crum, 
and'make ‘a compofition of the brawn of aroaft capon, 
mince it very fine,and ftamp it ina mortar with march- 
ese the yolks of hard eggs, mukefied bisket 
pread,and the crum ofthe manchet of one of the breads, 
fame fugar & fweet herbs chopped final], beaten cina- 
mon,cream,marrow ;fafiton,yolks of eggs,and fome cur- 
rans 5 fill the breads,and boil them:ina napkin in fome 
good mutton or capon broath ;, but firft {top the holes 
in the tops of the breads, then {tew {ome {weet-breads 
of veal, and fix peeping chickens between two difhes,or. 
a pipkin with fome mace, then fry fome lamb-ftones 
flic’t in batcer ‘made of hower,cream,two or three eggs, 
and falt; put toit fomejuyce of fpinage,then have fome 
boil’d fparagus,or bottoms of artichocks boil’d and beat 
up in beaten butter and gravy. The materials ‘being 
well boil’d and ftewed-up, dith the boil’d breadsina — 


1 


Fair 





toa pipkin with the fhoulder. blade, . put to it ome 
ftrong broth of good mutton or beef-gravy,lar asotot 






58 = The Accomplifhbt COOK: Or, 


fair dith with the chickens round about the breads 


Bi are agate de 
To hafh.a Shoulder of Mutton. i ai , . ee : 

Take a Shoulder of Mutton, roaft it, and fave the 

gravy,flice one half, and mince the other, and. putitin- 





fome pepper, falt, and a big onionor two, a faggot 
{weet herbs, ‘and a pint of white wine; ftew them we 


together clofe covered, and being tender ftewells {pit 
away the fat, and, put fome oyfter-liquor. tothe meat, 
and give it a warm: Then have three pints of great 


Wiss ‘parboil’d in their own liquor, and bearded 5 
ew then in a. pipkin wich’ large.mace,. £Wo..great 
whole onions, a little falt, vinegar, butter, fome whi ite- 


~ wine, pepper, and ftript. tyme; the materials ‘bei 


well ftewed dow n, difh up the fhoulder of mutton ona 
fine clean difh, and pour on the materials or hafhed 
mutton, then the ftewed oyfters over all’; with flict fc; 

lemon and fine carved fippets round the difhe or 
To hah a Shoulder of Mutton otherways. 

Stew it with claret-wine, only adding thefe few va- 
rieties more than the other; wz. two or three ancho- 
ves, olives, capers, famphire, barberries, grapes, Or 
goofeberries, and in all points elfe as the former. But 
then the fhoulder being rofted, take off the skin of the 
upper fide whole, and when the meat is difhed, lay on 
the upper skin whole, and cox it. x 
0 











cuewer Art and Myftery of Cookery. 59 ? 


| To hah a (boulder of Mutton the French way. 
Take afhoulder of mutton,roaft it thorowly,and fave 
the gravy; being well roafted, cut itin fine thin flices 
into a ftewing pan, or difh; leave the fhoulder bones 
‘with fome meat on them, and hack them with your 
knife ; then blow off the fat from the gravy you faved, 
and put it to your meat witha quarter of a pint of claret 
‘wine,fome falt,and a grated nutemg ; {tew all the fore- 
faid things together a quarter of an hour, and ferve it 
in a fine clean difh with fippets of French bread; then 
rub the difh bottom witha clove of garlick, or an oni- 
on, as you pleafe; difh up the fhoulder bones firft, and 
then the meat on that ; then have a good lemon cut in- - 
to dice work, as {quare as {imall dice, and peel all toge- 
ther, and ftrew it onthe meat; then run it over with 

beaten butter,and gravy of Mutton. ‘fe 

m7 Scotch Collops of Mutton. i 

‘Take a leg of mutton,and take out the bone, leave the 
leg whole,and cut large collops round the leg as thinasa 
-half-crown piece;hack them,then {alt and broil them on 
a clear charcoal fire,broil them up quick,and the blood 
will rife on the upper fide; then take them up plum 
off the fire,and turn the gravy into a difh,this done,broil 
the other fide, but have a care you'broil them not too 
dry ; then make fauce with the gravy, a little claret 
Wine, andnutmeg; give the collops aturn or two in 
the gravy,and difh them one by one, or two, one upon 


-another 5 thenrun them over. with the juyce of orange 
or lemon. 





Scotch Collops of a Leg or Loin of Mutton other ways. 


Bone a leg of mutton,and cut it crofs the grain of the 
meat,flice it into very thin flices,& hack them with the 
back of a knife;then fry them in the beft butter you can 


Bet, 









r — | 
ane mets ee : 
aa % ay hah em sa hs ais 


60° ~ The Accomplifbt COOK t Or, a “om 


"get, but firft falt them alittle before they be fried ; or 
being not too much fried, pour away the butter, and 
put to them fome mutton broth or gravy only, give 
them a walm in the pan, anddifhthem hot. 

Sometimes for change put to them: grated nutmeg, 
gravy ,juyce of orange,and a little claret wine; and be- 
ing fried as the former,give it a walm, run icover with 
beaten butter, and ferve it up hot. Shorten 
Otherways for more variety, add fome tapers, oy- 
fters, and lemon. ‘tj y9 . 


To make a Hafh of Partridges or Gapons. 

Take twelve partridges and roaftthem, and being 
cold mincethem very fine, the-brawns or wings; and 
leave the legs and rumps whole, then put fome {trong 

-. mutton broth tothem,or good mutton gravy, grated 
nutmeg, a great onion or two, fome piftaches, chefnuts, 
-and fal; thenftew them in a largeearthen pipkin or 
fauce-pan; ftew. the rumps and legs by themfelves in 
ftrong broth in another pipkin; then have a fine clean 
-dith,and take a French fix penny bread, chip it, and co-— 
ver the bottom of the dith,and when you goto difh the - 
‘Hath fteep the bread with fome good mutton broth,or 
good mutton gravy ; then pour theHath on the fteeped — 
-bread, lay the legs andthe rumps on the Hath, with 
fome fried oyfters, piftaches, chefnuts,flic’t lemonjand 
Jemon-peel,yolks of eggs {trained with juyce of orange - 
and beaten butter beat rogether,and run overall; gar-_ 
nifh the difh with carved oranges, lemons,fried oyfters, — 
chefnuts,and piftaches. Thus you may hath any kind of — 
Fowl,whether Water or Land Fowl. rls ae 
To hah a Hare. Eh e 
Flay it and draw it,then cut ic into pieces,and wafhit 
-inclaret wine and water very cleaa,ftrain the liquor,and 
: par- 








co 


The Art and Myftery of Cookery. 61 
parboil the quarters; then take them and {lice them, 
and put them into a difh with the legs, wings, or fhoul- 
ders and head whole; cut the chine into two or three 
pieces.and put to it two or three great onions,and fome 
of the liquor where it was parboil'd, ftew it between 
two difhes clofe covered tillit be tender, and put to it 
fome mace,pepper,and nutmeg ; ferve it on fine carved 
fippets, and run it over with beaten butter, lemon,mar- 
row and barberries. | 
To hajh a Rabit. | 
Take a Rabit being flayed and wiped clean; then cut 
off the thighs, legs, wings, and head, and part the chine 
into four pieces, put all into a difh or pipkin,and put to 
it a pint of white wine, and as much fair water, grofs 
pepper, flic’t ginger, falt, tyme, and fome other {weet 
erbs being finely minced, and two or three blades of 
mace ; {tew it the {pace of two hours,and a little before 
you difh it take the yolks of fix new laideggs, diffolve 
them with fome grape verjuyce, give ita walm or two 
on the fire, and ferve it up hor, | 
To ftew or hah Rabits otherways. : 
_ Stew them between two difhes as the former, in quar- 
ter or pieces aslongas your fingar, with fome broth, 
mace, a bundle of {weet herbs, falt, and a little white 
wine, being well ftewed down, {train the yolks of two 
or three hard eggs with fome of the broth, and thicken 
the broth where the rabit ftews ; then have fomecab- 
bidg-lettice boil’d in fair water,and being boil’d tender, 
put them in beaten butter with a few boiled raifins of 
the fun; or in place of lettice you may ufe white endive: 
then the rabits being finely {tewed, dith them upon car- 
ved fippets,and lay on the garnifh of lettice,mace,raifins 
of the fun,grapes,flic’t lemon or barberries,broth it,and 
derape on fugar. Thus chickens, pigeons, or sig 
. p 
& 








A eee ee i) rs " x 4 
BN sh SS Py tte ied a a Lae . 
. i ’ . As tee oa eh 
‘ 4 7%: by 








62 ‘The Accomplifbt COOK: Or, 
bat shy hit hafh Rabits otherwayes. = 
- Make a forcing or ftuffing in the belly of the Rabits; 
with fome {weet herbs,yolks of hard eggs, parfley,fage; 
currans,pepper and faltjand boil them as the former. 


Tohalh any Land Fowl, 

Take a capon, and hafh the wings in fine thin flices, 
leave the rumps and legs whole,put them into a pipkin 
with alittle ftrong broth,nutmeg; fome ftewed or pick- 
led mufhrooms, and an onion very {mall flic’t, or as the 
capon is flic’t about the bignefs of a three pence ; ftew 
it down with a little butter and gravy, and then difhit 
on fine fippets, lay the rumps and legs on the meat, and 
run it over with beaten butter, beaten with flices of 


lemon-peel. | . 
| To botl Woodcocks or Snipes; =) 
Boil them either in ftrong broth,or in water and fale, 
and being boiled,take out the guts,and chop them {mal} 
with the liver, putto it fome crumbs of grated white- 
bread, a little of the broth of the Cock, and fome large 
mace ; f{tew them together with fome gravy, then dif- 
folve the yolks of two eggs with fome wine vinegar,and - 
a little grated nutmeg,and when you are ready to difh it; 
put the eggs to it; and ftir it among the fauce with a lit- 
tle butter ; difh them on fippets, and run the fauceover | 
them with fome beaten butter and capers, or lemon 
minced {mall, barberries, or whole pickled grapes. 
Sometimes with this fauce boil fome flic’t onions,jand 
currans boil’dina broth by it felf,;when you boil it with 
onions, rub the bottom of the difh with garlick, 
Botl'd Cocks or Larks otherways. ree 
Boil them with the guts in them, in {trong broth,or fair 
water,and three or four whole onions, large mace, and 
falt; the cocks being boil’d, make fauce with fome Piss 
| | " flices: 





e 








The Art and Myftery of Cookery. 63 
flices of manchet or grated bread in another pipkin,and 
fome of the broth where the fow! or cocks boil, then 
put to it {ome butter, and the guts and liver minced, 
then have fome yolks of eggs diflolved with fome vine- 
gar and fome grated nutmeg,put it to the other ingredi- 
ents; ftir them together,and difh the fowl on fine fip- 
pets,pour on the the fauce with fome flic’t lemon, grapes, 
or barberries, and run it over with beaten butter. 
To boilany Land Fowl, as Turkey, Buftard, Pheafant, 
i Peacock, Partridgeor. the like. 
_ Takea Turkey and flay off the skin,leave the legs and 
rumps whole,then mince the flefh raw. with fome beef- 
fuet or lard,feafon it with nutmeg,pepper, falt, and fome 
minced {weet herbs, then put to it fome yolks ofraw 
egessand mingle all together, with two bottoms of boil’d 
artichocks,roafted chefnuts blanched,fome marrow,and 
fome boil’d skirrets or parfnips cut like dice, or fome 
pleafant pears, and yolks of hard eggs in quarters,fome 
goofeberries,grapes,or barberries;fill the skin and prick 
it up in the back, ftew it in a ftewing-pan or deep difh, 
and cover it with another ; but firft put fome ftrong 
broth toit; fome marrow artichocks boil’d and quar- 
tered, large mace, white wine, chefnuts, quarters of 
pears; falt, grapes, barberries, and fome of the meat 
made up in balls ftewed with the Turkey being finely 
boild or ftewed,ferve it on fine carved fippets,broth it, 
and fay on the garnifh with flices of lemon, and whole 
lemon-peel,run it over with beaten butter, and garnith 
the difh with chefnuts, yolks of hard eggs, and large 
piace... pik. | 
For the lears of thickning,yolks of hard eggs {trained 
with fome of the broth, or {trained almond paft with 
fome of the broth,or e){e {trained bread and forrel.. , 
“Otherways you may boil the former fowls either bon’ A 
9 anc 








; Pe ee = Drs et Mer ue Arn are) a a 
ee Sy ga UE eo a alg 
Ae etek, Me ai er j nears ‘er aisle Ek i 
wa x i * es ” — . . 
A rh J . pat ye 





Ga The Accomplifit COOK: Or, 1. i. 
a ¢ | PMD : ; 
and truft up witha farfing of fome minc’d veal Or mut- 
ton,and feafoned as the former in all points, with thofé 
materials, or boil it with the bones 1n being truft up: 





ms 


A turkey to bake, and break thebones 
Otherways bone the fowl,and fill the body with the 
- forefaid far(ing,or make a pudding of srated bread,min- 
ced fuet of beef or veal,feafoned with cloves,mace,pe p= 
per, falt,and grapes, fill the body,and prick up the back; 
and ftew it as is aforefaid. Rais 36 a 
Or make the pudding of grated bread beef-fuet minc’d 
fome currans, nutmegs, cloves, fugar; (weet herbs, fale, 
juyce of fpinage ; ifyellow, {affron,fome minced meat, 
cream,eggs,and barberries : fill the fowl and ftew it in. 
mutton broth & white wine,with the gizzard,liver,and 
bones.ftew it down well,then have fome artichock bot- 
toms boil’d and quarter d, fome potatoes boil’d and 
blanch’d, and fome dates quarter’d, and fome marrow 
boil’din water and falt; for the garnifh fome boil’d 
skirret or pleafant pears. Then make a lear of almond, 
-pafte {trained with mutton broth, for the thickning of 
. the former broth. ertosss nity 3 HB VOo Dr 
~ Otherways fimple,being ftuffed with parfley;ferveit 
in with butter,vinegar, and parfley,boil’d and mineeds 
as alfo bacon boil’d on it, or about it, in two pieces; 
and two faucers of green fauce. hig sbad 
~~ Or otherways for variety, boil your fowl in .water 
and falt, then take ftrong broth, and put in a faggot of 
(weet herbs, mace, marrow, cucumber flic’t, and thin 
flices of interlarded bacon, ‘and falt; ee. 
Tp boil Capons,Pullets; Chickens Pigeons, 
Pheafants or Partridge, 
Searce them either with the bone or boned,then take 
off the skin whole,with the legs, wings,neck, and head 
on, mince the body with fome bacon or beef iia 
| ) oa 


wid 


hie al ioe ie ; a iS. 4p % tidy | ele ia 
7 a F 


The Art and Myftery of Cookery. = 65 


On it with nutmeg, pepper;cloves, beaten ginger, falt, 
and a few {weet herbs finely minced and mingleda- - 
mongft fome three or four yolks of eggs, fome fugar, 
whole grapes,goofeberries,barberries,and piftaches ; fill i. 
the skins,and prick them up in the back,then ftew them a 
between twodifhes, with fome ftrong broth, white- 
wine,butter,fome large mace, marrow, goofeberies and 
{weet herbs, being ftewed, ferve them on fippets, with - 
fome marrow and {lic’t lemon; in winter, currans. 


To boil a Gapon or Chicken in white Broth, 


Fir ft boil the Capon in water and falt,then take three 

pints of ftrong broth, anda quart of white-wine, and 
{tew it ina pipkin with a quarter of a pound of dates, 
halfa pound of fine fugar, four or five blades of large 
mace, the marrow of three marrow bones;a handful of 
white endive;{tew thefe in a pipkin very leifurely,that 
it may but only fimmer; then being finely {tewed, and 
the broth well tafted, {train the yolks of ten eggs with 
fome of the broth.Before you difh up the capon or chic- 
Kens, put in the eggs intothe broth, and keep it ftirring, 
that it may not curdle,give ita warm, and fet it from the | 
fire : the fowls being difhed up put on the broth, and 
parnifh the meat with dates, marrow,large mace,endive, 
preferved barberries,and oranges, boil’d skirrets, poun- ‘ 
garnet, and kernels: Make a lear of almond pafte and 
grape verjuice. 

To boilaGapon inthe Italian Falbion with Ranfoles; 
| a very excellent way. | 

Take a youngCapon, draw it and tru{ it to boil, pick it 
very clean,and lay it in fair water,and parboil ita little, 

then boil it in {trong broth till it be enough,but firft pre- 
ae yourRanfoles as followeth:Take a good quantity of 

eet leaves,and boil them in fair water very tender,and. 

, G prefs 


‘q 


w. 
® 


_ pref out the water clean fromthem,then take fix fweet- 


breads of veal, boil and mince them very {mall and the 


.. herbsalfo, themarrow of four or five marrow-bones, 
and the {malleft of the marrow keep,and put itto your — 


“minced fweetbreads and herbs,and keep bigger pieces, 


and boil them in water by it felf, to lay on the Capon, — 


and upon the top of the difh, then take raifons of the 


fun fton’d, and mince them {mall with halfa pound of 


dates, and a quarter ofa pound of pomecitron minced 
{mall,and a pound of Naples-bisket grated, and put all 
thefe together into agreat, large difh or charger, with 


half a poundof {weet butter, and work it with your — 
hands into peice of pafte,and feafon it with a littlenut- 


meg,cinamon,ginger,and {alt,and fome parmifan grated 
and fome fine fugar alfo and mingle them well, then 
make a peice of pafte of the fineft flower, fix yolks of 


raw eggs, alittle faffron beaten fmall, half a pound of - 


butter anda little falt, with fome fair water hot, (not 
boiling ) and make up the pafte, then drive out a long 
fheet with a rowling pin as thin as you can poffible,and 


lay the ingredients in {mall heaps, round or long on the 


pafte, thencover them with the pafte, and cut them 
off with a jag afunder,and make two hundred or more, 
and boil them ina broad kettle of ftrong broth,half full 
of liquor;and when it boils put theRanfols in one by one 






hy 


‘e 


and let them boil a quarter of an hour; then takeup 


the Capon into a fair large difh,and lay on the Ranfoles, 
and ftew on them grated cheefe or parmifan, and Na- 
ples-bisket grated,cinamon and fugar;and thus between 
every lay till you have filled the difh, and pour on mel- 


ted butter witha little {trong broath, then the marrow, - 


pomecitron, lemons flic’t,and ferveit up; or you may 
fry half the Ranfoles in clarified butter, ec. 


A 


/ 


7 oe ae rs. F 
eS 


Po sroh Bigdy oe : ; “iy | mt 
___ Lhe Art and Myftery of Cookery. 67 
A rare Fricaje, 


Take fix pigeon and fix chicken-peepers,{cald and trufS 
them being drawn clean,head ‘and all on,then fer them, 
and have fome lamb-ftones and fweet-breads blanch’d; 
parboildand flic’t,fry moft of the fiveet-breads owred; 
have alfo fome afparagus ready,cut off the tops an inch 
Jong,the yolk of twe-hard eggs,piftaches,the marrow of 
{ix marrow-bones,half the marrow fried green,& white 
butter,let it be kept warm till it be almoft dinner time; 
then havea clean frying-pan,and fry the fow! with good 
{weet butter,being finely fryed put out the butter,& put 
tothem fome roaft mutton gravy, fome large fried 
oyfters and fome falts then put in the hard yolks of 
eggs,and the reft of the {weet-breads that are not fried, 
the piftaches,afparagus,and half the marrow: then ftew 
them well in the frying-pan with fome grated nutmeg, 
pepper, a clove or two of garlick if you pleafe, a licele 
-white-wine,and let them be well ftew’d.Then have ten 
yolks of eggs diffolved in a difh with grape-verjuice or 
wine-vinegar,and a little beaten mace, and put it to the 
frycafe, then have a French fix penny loaf flic’t into a 
fair larg difh fet on coals, with fome good mutton gravy, 
then give the frycafe two or three warms on the fire, 
and pout it on the fops in the dith ; garnifh it with fried 
{weet-breads, fried oyfters,fried marrow,piftaches,flic’ 
almonds and the juyce of two or. three oranges. 


| Capons in Pottage in the French Fafhion. 

Draw and trufs theCapons, fet them,& fill their bellies 
With marrow;then put them ina pipkin with a knuckle 
of veal,a neck of mutton, 2 marrow bone, and fome 
{weet breads of veal, feafon the broth with cloves mace, © 
and alittle falt, and fet a to the fire; let it boil gently, 

; e i 2 til. 


68 ‘The Accomplifbi COOK: Or, 





not too much; as your capons boil,make ready the bot- 





‘ a b 
till rhe capons beenough, but havea care you boil them 


f 
i] 
J 


toms and tops of eight or ten rowls of French bread,put — 


them dried into a fair filver difh, wherein you ferve the 
capons ; fet iton the fire,and put to the bread two ladle-. 


full of broth wherein the capons are boil’d,& a ladlefull 


of mutton gravy ; cover the dith and let it ftand till you 
difh up the capons ; ifneed require,add now and then a 


ladle-fullof broth and gravy: when you are ready to 


ferve it,firft lay onthe marrow-bone,then the capons on 
each fide; then fill up the difh with gravy of mutton,and 


wring on the juyce ofa lemon or two; then witha {poon — 


take off all che fat that {wimmeth on the pottage ; gar- 


nifh the capons with the {weetbreads, and fome carved 


lemon, and ferve it hot. | 
To boil a Capon, Pullet, or Chicken. 


Boil them in good mutton broth, white mace,a faggot 


of fweet herbs, fage, fpinage, marigold leaves and 


flowers, white or green endive, borrage, buglofs, par- 


fley,and forrel, and ferve it on fippets. 


To Loil Capons or Chickens with Sage and Parfley, i 


Firft boil them in water and falt,then boil fome par- 
fley,fage, two or three eggs hard,chop them ; then have 
a few thin{lices of fine manchet, and ftew all together, 
but break not the flices of bread; {tew them with fome 


of the broth wherein the chickens boil, fome large - 


mace,butter,a little white-wine or vinegar,with a few - 


barberries or grapes ; difh up the chickens on the fauce, 
and runthem over with {weet butter and lemon cut 
like dice, the peel cut like {mall lard, and boil a little 
peel with the chickens. | 
To bol a Capon or Chicken with divers compofitions. 


Take of the skin whole,but leave on the ces Wings, | 


an 






a ¥ , 1 Eoin yi oh aii 
. The Art and Myftery of Cookery. 69 


SS 
and head; mince the body with fome beef fuet or lard, 
put to it fome {weet herbs minced, and feafon it with 
cloves, mace, pepper, falt, two or three eggs, grapes, 
goofeberries, or barberries, bits of potato or mufh- 
roms. Inthe winter with fugar, currans, and prunes, 
fill the skin, prick it up, and ftew it between two difh- 
es with large mace and {trong broth, peices of arti- 
chocks, cardones, or afparagus, and marrow: being 
finely ftewed, ferveit on carved fippets, and run it over 
with beaten butter, lemon flic’t, and {crape on fugar. 


To boil a Gapon or Chicken with Cardones, Mufbroms, 

 Artichocks, or Ovfters. | 

The forefaid Fowls being parboil’d, and cleanfed 
from the grounds, ftew them finely ; then take your 
Cardones being cleanfed and peeled into water, havea 
skillet of fair water boiling hot, and put them there- 
in; being tender boil’d, take them up and fry them in 
chopt lard or {weet butter, pour away the butter, and 
put them into a pipkin, with ftrong broth, pepper, 
mace, ginger, verjuyce, and juyce of orange ; ftew all 
together, with fome {trained almonds, and fome {weer 
herbs chopped, give them a warm, and ferve your ca- 
pon or chicken on {ippets. 7 

Let them be fearfed, as you may fee in the book of 
fearft meats, and wrap your fearft fowl in cauls of 
veal, half roaft them, then ftew them in a pipkin with 
the forefaid Cardones and brotfi. 

To boil a Gapon or Chicken in the French Fafhion, with 
—— Skirrets or French Beazs. 

Take a capon and boil it in fair water witha little 
falt, and a faggot of tyme androfemary bound up hard, 
fome parfley and fennil-roots, being picked and finely 
cleanfed, and two or ee blades of large mace being 


3 a als 


- Lares AA i hee © RO st ee as ie eee A £7" Ms iT ae ee eR ee a 
Sea eee Re ee ulti Gait ahia: ’ Popes chr ae: 





Bo © The Accomplit COOK: On 4 4m 


almoft boil’d, put in two whole onions boil’d and ftrai- 
ned with oyfter liquor, a little verjuyce, grated bread, 
and fome beaten pepper, giveit a warm or two, and 
fervé the caponor chicken on fine carved fippets. Gar- — 
nifh ic with orange peel boil’d in ftrong broth, and 
fome French beans boil’d, and put in thick butter, or 
fome skirret, cardones,-artichocks, {lic’c lemon, mace, 
or orange, | 
To boil a Capon or Chicken with fugar Peale. 

When the cods be but young,ftring them and pick off 
the husks; then take two or three handfuls, and put 
them intoa pipkin with halfa pound of {weet butter, 
- a quarter of a pint of fair water, grofs pepper, falt, 
mace,and fome fallet oy]: ftew them till they be very — 
tender, and {train to them three or four yolks of eggs, 
with fix {poonfuls of fack. pe ee 
 Yoboil a Gapon or Chicken with Colliflomers. 

Cut off the buds of your flowers, and boil them in 
smmilk wich a little mace till they be very tender; then ~ 
take the yolks of two eggs, and {train them with a 
quarter ofa pint of fack ; then take as much thick but- 
_ ter being drawn with a little vinegar and flic’r lemon, 
brew them together; then take the flowers out of the 
milk,put them to the butter and fack,difh up your capon 
being tender boil’d upon fippets finely carved, and pour 
on the fauce, ferve it to the table with a little fale. 








To borl a Capon or Chicken with Sparagu. 
Boil your capon or chicken in fair water and fome 
falt, then put in their bellies a little mace, chopped 
parfley, and {weer butter 5 being boild, ferve them on 
fippets, and puca little of the broth on them : then 
havea bundle or two of {paragus boil’d, put in beaten 
butter, and ferve it on your capon or chicken, . 


¥ 


a eee OS Ma nr te Re SN ee Na ST ei eiihcat ie a) a eS 
- iia : . ‘x ie | 4 4 ' ; , * 








The Art and Myftery of Cookery. * Ot 


To boil a Capon or Ghicken with Rice. ~ 


_ Boil the capon in fair water and falt, then take halfa 
- pound of rice,and boilit in milk ; being halfboil’d,puc 
away the milk, and boil it in two quarts of cream, put 
toita little rofe-water and large mace, or nutmeg, 
with the forefaid materials. Being almoft boil’d, ftrain _ 
the yolks of fix or feven eggs with a little cream, and 
ftiralltogether; give thema warm, and difh up the 
capon or chicken, then pour on the rice being’ feafoned 
with fugar and falt, and ferve it on fine carved fippets. 
Garnifh the difh with {craped fugar, orange, preferved 
barberries, flic’t lemon, or pomegranate kernels, as alfo 
the Capon or chicken, and marrow on them. 


Divers Meats boiled with Bacon hot or cold; as Calves- 
bead, any Foynt of Veal, leanVenifon, Rabsts, Turkey, 

_. Peacock, Capons, Pullets, Pheafants, Pewets, Pigeons, 

Partridges, Ducks, Mallards, ov any Sea Fowl. 3 
Take a leg of veal and foak it in fair water;the blood. 
being well foaked from it, and white, boil it, but fir 
ftuff it with parfley and other fweet herbs chopped 
fmall, asalfofome yolks of hard eggs minced, ftuff it 
and boil it in water and falt, then boil the bacon by 
it felf either ftuffed or not, as you pleafe; the veal 
and bacon being boil’d white, being difhed ferve them 
up, and lay the bacon by the veal with the rinde on in 
awhole piece, or take off the rinde and cut icin four, 
fix, or eight thin flices; iet your bacon be of the ribs, 
and ferve it with parfley ftrowed on it, green fauce in 
faucers, or others,as you may {ee in the Book of Sauces. 
Gold otherways. 

Boil any of the meats,poulery,or birds abovefaid wich 
the ribs of bacon,when it is boil’d take off the rind be- 


F 


\ G4 ) ing 















mt age 





4 Bd ch im De te p >a. bi 

7 7 hei * A: ° 

% Ree betty : oe eo ee eee 

. . bite > +S he eae, 
By co Seisienunastec hia non cr. nledau iio, ' 


72 ~~ The Accomplifht COOK: Or, 
finely kindled from the ruft and filth, flice it into thin 
flices, and {eafon it with nutmeg, cinamon, cloves, pep- 
per, and Fennil-feed all finely beaten, with fine fugar — 
—amongft them, fprinkle over all rofe-vinegar, and put 
~ fome of the flices into your boild capon or other fowl, 
lay fome flices on it, and lay your capon or other fowl 
on fome blank manger ina clean difh, and ferve it cold, 
To Coil Land Fowl, Sea Fowl, Lamb, Kid, or any Heads 

in the French Fafhion, with green Peafe or Haflers. 

Take peafe,{hell them,and put them all into boiling 
~ mutton broth, with fome thin {flices of interlarded ba- 
con; being almoft boiled, put in chopped parfley, fome 
annifeeds, and {train fome of the peafe, thicken them 
or not, as you pleafe ; then put fome pepper, giveit a. 
warm, and ferve Kidsor Lambs head on fippets, and 
{tick it otherways with eggs and grated cheefe, or fome - 
of the peafe or flower {trained ; fometimes for variety 


7% A 


you may ufe faffron or mint. 


To Lol all other fmall Fowls, as Ruffes, Brewes, Godwits, 
~ Kzaots, Dotterels, Strenits, Pemits, Ollines,Gravelens, 
Oxeyes, Red-(hanks, oc. 7 : } | ts 
Half roaft any of thefe fowls, and ftick on one fide a 
few cloves as they roaft, fave the gravy, and being half 
roafted, put them into a pipkin, with the gravy, fome 
claret wine, as much ftrong broth'as will cover them, 
fome broild houfhold-bread ftrained, alfo mace,cloves — 
pepper, ginger, fome fried onions and falt; ftew all 
well together, and ferve them on fine carved fippets ; 
fometimes for change add capersand famphire. ~~ 
To bail all manner of {mall Birds, ov Land Fowl, as Ph-- 
vers, Quatls, Rails, Black-birds, Thrufbes, Suites, Wheat- 
ears, Larks, Sparrows, Martins. ‘2 
Take them and trufs them,or cut off the legs & tiga | 
‘ ri 


rs Pet is 









si , ee Mico. iis 
The Art and Myftery of Cookery. 72 
_and boil them in ftrong broth or water, {cum them ,and 
put in large mace, white-wine, wafhed currans, dates, 
marrow, pepper, and falt; being well ftewed, dith 
them on fine carved fippets, thicken the broth with 
{trained almonds, rofe-water, and fugar, and garnifh © 
them with lemon, barberries, fugar, or grated bread 
ftrewed about the difh. For Leir otherways, {trained 
bread and hard eggs, with verjuyce and broth. . 


Sometimes for variety garnifh them with potatoes, 
farfings, or little balls of farfed manchet. 


To boil a Swan, Whopper wilde or tame Geafe,Grane, Sho- 
veller, Hern, Ducks, Mallard, Bittorn, Widgeons, 
Gulls, ov Curlews. 

Take a Swanand bone it, leave on the legs and wings, 
then make a farfing of fome beef-fuet or minced lard, 
fome minced mutton or venifon being finely minced 
with fome {weet herbs, beaten nutmeg, pepper, cloves, 
and mace ; thenhave fome oytfters parboil’d in their 
own liquor, mingle them amongft the minced meat, 
with fome raw eggs,and fill the body of the fowl, prick 
it up clofe on the back, and boilit ina {tewing-pan or 
deep difh, then put to the fowl fome {trong broth, large 
mace, white-wine, a few cloves,oyfter-liquor, and {ome 
boil’d marrow ; ftew them all well together : then have 
oyfters ftewed by themfelves with an onion or two, 
mace, pepper, butter, and a little white- wine. Then 
have the bottoms of artichocks ready boild, and put in 
fome beaten butter, aud boil’d marrow; difhup the 
fow! on fine carved fippets, then broth them, garnith 
them with ftewed oyfters, marrow, artichocks, goofe- 
berries, flict lemon, barberries or grapes and large 
mace ; garnifh the difh with grated bread ,oyfters,mace, 
lemon and artichocks, and run the fowl! over with bea- 
ten butter. oy ~ Other 















\ i . oe a ats 7 Sie pte AS il es 

: te pei SYS. + is Sa ee * 

Peis ha a Lge re Vel Sa Criraa en +a 
7 . Ps ee ya ee 


: ~The Accon 

- Otherways fill the body witha pudding made of gra-_ 

ted bread, yolks of eggs, {weet herbs minced fmall, 

with anonion, and fome beef-fuet minced, fome bea- 

~ ten cloves, mace, pepper, and falt, fome of the blood of © 
the fowl mixed withit, anda little cream; fll the 

fowl], and ftew it or boil it as before. | 


To boil any large Water Fow!l otherways, a Swan, - | 
a Whopper, wild or tame Geefe. | 


"Take a goofe and {alt it two or three days, then trufS 
it to boil, cut lard as big as your little finger, and lard 
_ the breaft; feafon the lard with pepper, mace, and 
{alts then boil it in beef-broth, or water and falt, put 
toit pepper grofly beaten,.a bundle of bay-leaves,tyme, 
and rofemary bound up very well, boil them with the © 
~ fowl] ; then prepare fome cabbidge boild tender in wa- 
terand falt, {queeze out the water from it, and put it — 
ina pipkin with {trong broth, claret wine, and a good 
big onion or two; feafon it with pepper, mace, and 
falt; and three or four anchovies diffolved; ftew thefe 
together with a ladleful of fweet butter, anda little 
vinegar: and when the goofe is boild enough, and 
your cabbidge on fippets, lay on the goofe with fome 
cabbidge on the breaft, and ferve ic up. Thus you 
may drefs any large wild Fowl. 

To boil all manner of {mall Sea or Land Fowl. — 

© Boil the fow] in water and falt, then take fome of 
the broth, and put to it fome beefs-udder boild, and 
flic’tinto thin flices with fome piftaches blanch’d,fome 
flic’t faufages ftript out of theskin, white-wine, fweet, — 
herbs,and large mace; {tew thefe together till you think 
it fuficiently boiled, then put to it beet-root cut into 
flices, beat it up with butter, and carve up the Fowl, 
pour the broth on it, and garnifhie with fippets, or 
what you pleafe. ~ On 

















slat a et . ne e Shes 


The Art and 


Myfter y of Cookery. J 85 


“8 Or thus. a 

Take and lardthem,then half roaft them,draw them, 
and put them in a pipkin with fome ftrong broth or 
claret wine, fome chefnuts, a pint of great oyfters, ta- 
king the breads from them, two or three onions min- 
ced very {mall, fome mace, a little beaten ginger, and 
a cruttot French bread grated; thicken. it, and dith 
them up on fops : Ifno oyfters, chefnuts, or artichock 
bottoms, turnips, colliflowers, interlarded bacon in 
thin flices, and {weetbreads, ec. 

P . Orherways. be 

Take them and roaft them, fave the gravy, and be- 

ing roafted, put them in a pipkin, with the gravy,fome 
flic’t onions, ginger, cloves, pepper, falt, grated bread, 

claret wine, currans, capers, mace, barberries, and fu- 
- gar, ferve them on fine fippets, and run them over 
with beaten butter, flict lemon, and lemon peel; 
fometimes for change ufe ftewed oyfters or cockles. 


To boil or dvefs any Land Fowl, or Birds in the Italian 
falbion, in a Broth called Brodo-Lardiero. 


Take fix Pigeons being finely cleanfed, and truft, put 
them into a pipkin with a quart of {trong broth, or wa- 
ter, and half wine, then put therein fome fine {lices of 
inteclarded bacon, when it boils {cum it, and put in nut- 
meg, mace, ginger, pepper, falt, currans, fugar, fome 
fack,raifins of the fun, prunes, {age,dryed cherries,ty me, 
a little faffron, and difh them on fine carved fippets. 

To few Pigeons 1m the French falhion. 
The Pigeons being drawn and truft, make a fearfing 


or ftopping of fome {weet herbs minced, then mince | 


fome beef-{uet or lard, grated bread, currans, cloves, 
mace,pepper, ginger, fugar,& 3 or 4raw eggs. The pigeons 
being larded & halfroafted, {tuff them with the forefaid 


be Accomplifpt KK: Or, 


4 a. .e we 
~ 
76 
4 


fearfing, and put boikd cabbidge ftuck with afew | 


cloves round about them ; bind up every Pigeon feve- 






ral with packthread, then put them in a pipkin a boi-_ 


ling with ftrong mutton broth, three or four yolks of — 


hard eggs minced fmall, fome large mace, whole 
cloves, pepper, falt, anda little white-wine; being 


boil’d, ferve them on fine carved fippets, and ftrow on — 


cinamon, ginger, and fugar. : 
: therways in the French Fafhion. joc 
Take Pigeons ready pull’d or fcalded, take the flefh 
out of the skin, and leave the skin whole with the legs 


and wings hanging to it, mince the bodies with fome 


lard or beef fuet together very {mall, then put to them 
fome {weet herbs finely minced, and feafon-all with 


cloves, mace, ginger, pepper, {ome grated bread or par- 


mifan grated, and yolks of eggs; fill again the skins; 
and prick them up inthe back, thea put them in adifh 
with fome ftrong broth, and fweet herbs chopped , 
large mace, goofeberries, barberries, or grapes; then, 
cabbidge-lettice boil’d in water and falt, put to them 


pets. ie : 
To boil Pigeons otherways. 


- Being truffed, put them in a pipkin, with fome 


{trong broth.or fair water, boil and {cum them, then 
put in fome mace, a faggot of {weet herbs, white en- 
dive, marigold flowers,and falt; and being finely boi- 
led, ferve them on fippets, and garnifh the difh with 
mace and white endive flowers. oe 
Otherwaysyoumay add Cucumbers in quarters ei- 
_ther pickled or frefh, and fome pickled capers ; or boil 
the cucumbers by themfelves, and put them in beaten 
butter, and {weet herbs chopped f{mall. 
‘Or boil them with capers,{amphire,mace,nutmeg,fpi- 
nages, 


ie 


‘dias * ph ow 


butter, and the Pigeons being boil'd, ferve them on fip- 


¢ 








The Art an Myftery of Cookery. Ee | 


nage, endive, and a rack or chine of mutton boil’d with 
them. — | | 
~ Or elfe with capers, mace, falt, and fweet herbs in a 
faggot; then have fome cabbidge or colliflowers boil’d 
very tender in fair water and falt,pour away the water, 
and put them in beaten butter, and when the fowls be 
boil’d, ferve the cabbidge on them. : Sp 
To boil Pigeons otherwates. 

Take Pigeons being finely cleanfed and truft, put 
them in a pipkin or skillet clean icowred, with fome 
mutton broth or fair water; fet them a boiling and 
{cum them clean,then put to them large mace,and well 
wafhed currans,fome ftrained bread {trained with vine- 
gar and broth, put it to the Pigeons with fome {weet 
butter and capers ; boil them very white, and being 
boil’d, ferve them on fine carved fippets in the broth 
with fome fugar ; garnifh them with lemon, fine fugar, 
mace, grapes,goofeberries,or barberries, and run them 
over with beaten butter ; garnifh the difh with grated 
manchet. ee 





Pottages. 


Pottage im the Italian Falcon, 


Bo sreen peafe with fome ftrong broth, and inter- 
larded bacon cut into flices; the peafe being boiled, 
~ put to them fome chopped parfley,pepper,annifeed,and 
~ ftrain fome of the peafe to thicken the broth; giveit a 
- -walm and ferve it on fippets,with boil’d chickens, pige- 
ons, kids, or lambs-heads, mutton,duck,mallard,or any 
poultry. | 

Sometimes for variety you may thicken the broth 
‘with eggs. Pot= 











Uae comes 


ages! 
re 





(88 The Acomplits COOK: Oy 


one . 








Pottage otherways in the Italian Fafhion. 

- Boil arack of mutton;a few whole cloves,mace,flic't 
singer, all manner of {weet herbs chopped; and a little 
falt ; being finely boiled, put in fome {trained almond- 
pafte,with grape verjuyce,{faftron, grapes, or goofeber- 
ries ; give them a warm,and ferve your meat on fippets. 


Pottage of Muttoneal pr Beef, 1n the Englith Fabion. 
-Cut arack of mutton in two pieces,and takea knuckle 
of veal, and boil it in a gallon pot or pipkin,with good 
ftore ofherbs, and a pint of oatmeal chopped amongft 
the herbs,as tyme,{weet marjoram,parfley,chives,faler, 
fuccory,marigold-leaves and flowers, ftrawberry-leaves, 
violet-leaves,beets,borage,forrel, bloodwort, fage,pen- 
nyroyal ; and being finely boil’d,ferve them on fine car- 
ved fippets with the mutton and veal, ec. | 


To ftew a Shoulder of Mutton with Oyfters, 


Take a fhoulder of mutton,and roaft it,and being half 
roafted or more,take off the upper skin whole,& cut the 
meat into thin flices,then ftew it with claret,mace,nut- 
meg, anchovies, oyfter-liquor, falt, capers, olives, fam- 
phire, and flices of orange; leave the fhoulder blade 
with fome meat on it,and hack it,fave alfo the marrow 
bone whole with fome meat on it, and lay it ina clean 
difh ; the meat being finely {tewed,pour it onthe bones, 
and on that fome ftewed oyfters and large oyfters over 
all,with flic’t lemon and lemon peel. 

THe skin being firft finely breaded, ftew the oyfters 
with large mace,a great onion or two, butter, vinegar, 
white wine,a bundle of {weet herbs,and lay on theskin 
again over alle. el eo ae 


. 2 te 





ial’ soe lee 


so 4 


fe , 
We ha ' oy 








To voaft a Shoulder of Mutton with Onions and Parfey, 
and bafte it with Oranges, ) 

Stuff it with parfley and onions, or {weet herbs, nut- 
meg,and falt, and in the roafting of it, bafte it with the 
juyce of oranges, fave the gravy and clear away the fats 
then ftew it up with a flice or two of orange and an an- 
chovie,without any fat on the gravy, ec. | 


Other Hajhes of Scotch Collops. 


Cut a leg of mutton into thin flices as thin as a fhill- 


ing,crofs the grain of the leg,fprinkle thenrlightly with 
falt, and fry them with {weet butter,ferve them with 
gravy or juice of oranges,and nutmeg,and run them over 
with beaten butter, lemon, ec. | 
| Otherways the forefatd Gollops, | 

For variety, {ometimes feafon them with coriander- 
feed, or ftamped fennil-feed, pepper and falt; f{prinkle 
them with white wine,then flower’d,fryed, and ferved 


with juice of orange,for fauce,with firrup of rofe-vine 


gar,or elder vinegar. 


Other Hajhes or Scotch Collop of any Foint of Veal, either 
tn Loyn,Leg, Bach or Shoulder, 

Cut a leg into thin flices,as you do Scotch collops of 
mutton,hack and fry them with {mall thin flices of inter- 
Jarded bacon as big as the flices of veal, fry them with 
fweet butter; and being finely fried, difh them upina 
fine difh, put from them the butter that you fried them 
with,and put to them beaten butter with lemon,gravy, 
and juyce of orange. : 

A Hafh of a Leg of Mutton in the French fa(hion. 


Parboil a leg of mutton,then take it up,pare off {ome 


thin flices on the upper and under fide,or‘round upphick 
= the 


he Art and Myftery of Cookery. ue 89 4 





nye) er — 
1 een ati 4 f. 
’ ag a Pen oe 


a alt 


ic . oe we ec 
gh TDS ee ‘ 
pane p's 


86 —-The Accomplifts COOK: On 








the leg through to let out the gravy on the flices; then 

_bruife fome {weet herbs,as tyme,parfly,marjoram,favo- 
ty, with the back of a ladle, and put to it a piece of 
fweet butter,pepper, verjuyce 5 and when your mutton — 
is boild; pour all over the flices herbs and broth on the 
leg into a clean dith. 


Another Halb of Mutton or Lamb,either hot or cold, — 

Roaft a fhoulder of mutton,and cut it into flices, put 
to it oyf{ters,white wine,raifins of the {un,falt,nutmeg, 
and ftrong broth,(or no raifins) flic’t lemon or orange ¢ 
ftew it all together, and ferve it on fippets, and runit 
over with beaten butter and lemon, ec. 


Another Hajh of a Foynt of Mutton or Lamb hot or cold. . 

Cut it in very thin flices, then put them ina pipkin 

or difh, and put to it a pint of claret wine,falt, nutmeg, 

large mace,an anchovie or two,ftew them well together 

with a little gravy;and being finely ftewed ferve them 

on carved fippets with fome beaten butter & lemon,céc. 
3 thermays,» 

Cut it into thin flices raw, and fry it with a pint of 
white wine till ic be brown,and put them intoa pipkin 
with flic’t lemon,falt,fried parfley, gravy, nutmeg, and- 
garnifh your difh with nutmeg and lemon. 


Other Hajhes of a Shoulder of Mutton. . : 

Boil it and cut it in thin flices,hack the fhoulder-blade, 

and put all into a pipkin or deep difh, with fome falt, 

gravy, white-wine, fome {trong broth, and a faggot of 

{weet herbs, oyfter-liquor,caper-liquor,and capers ; be- 

ing {tewed down,brufe fome parfley,and put to-it fome 
beaten cloves and mace, and ferve it on fippets. 


Divers © 


Pee eee ae ee 





The Art and Myftery of Cookery. 81 
Divers made Dithes or Capilotado’s. 


Firft, a Difh of Ghines of Mutton, Veal; Capon, Pige- 
; ons; or other Eowls, | 
| BS a pound of rice in mutton broth, put to it fom€ 
blanched chefnuts; pine apple-feeds, almonds or 
piftaches ; being boil’d thick, put to it fome marrow 
or frefh butter, falt, cinamon, and fugar; then cut your 
veal into fmall bits or peices, and break up the fowl; 
then have a fair difh, and fet it on the embers, and put 
fome of your rice, and fome of the meat, and more of 
the rice and fugar, and cinamon, and pepper over all, 
and fome marrow. yee | | 
Capilotado, zz the Lumbardy fafhion of a Capon, 
- Boil rice in mutton broth till it be very thick; and 
put to it fome faltand fugar. Mes 
Then have aliodome Bolonia Saufages boil’d very 
tender; minced very {mall; or grated; and fome grated 
cheefe, fugar, and cinamon mingled together ; then cut 
up the boil d or roaft capon; and lay it upona clean difh 
with fome of the rice, {trow on cinamon and faufage, 
grated cheefe and fugar, and lay on yolks of raw eggs; 
‘thus make two or three layings and more, eggs and 
fome butter or marrow onthe top ofall; and fet it on 
the embers, and cover it, or in a warm oven: 


Capilotado of Pigeons or wild Ducks, or any Land 
or Sea Fowls roafted : 
Take a pound of almond-pafte, and put to it a Capon. 
minc’tand ftamped with the almonds,& fome crums of 
manchet,fome {ack or white-wine,three pints of ftrong 
broth cold,and eight or a yolks ofraw segiamakit 


the 


Ge RON AR oy TRENT Ie 


82 ‘The Accomplit COOK: O7, 





fugar to a pretty thickne(fs, put to it fome cinamon, 


nutmeg, and a few whole cloves, then have roaft Pige- 
ons, or any {mall birds roafted, cut them up, and do as 


‘is aforefaid, and ftrow on fugarandcinamon, 


-Capilotado for roa? Meats, as Partridges, Pigeons, eight 


or twelve,.or any other the like 3 or Sea Fowls, Ducks, 
or Widzeons. 3 | 


Take a pound of almonds, a pound of currans, a 
pound of fugar, halfa pound of muskefied bisket-bread, 
a pottle of {trong brothcold, halfa pintof grapehrer- 
juyce, pepper half an ounce,nutmegs as much, an ounce 


of cinamon, and a few cloves; all thefe aforefaid ftam- 


ped, ftrained, and boil’d with the aforefaid liquor,and © 


inall points as the former, only toafts mutt be added. 


Other Capilotado common. E Apier: 

Take two pound of parmifan grated, a minced kid- 
ney of veal, a pound of other fat cheefe, ten cloves of 
garlick boil’d, broth or none, two eapons minced and 
{tamped, roft or boil’d, and put to itten yolks of eggs’ 
raw, witha pound of fugar: temper the forefaid with 
ftrong broth, and boil all ina broad skillet or brafs pan, 
in the boiling ftir ic continually till it be incorporated, 


‘and put to itan ounce of cinamon, a little pepper, half” 


an ounce of cloves, and as much nutmeg beaten, fome 
faffron; then break up your roaft fowls, roaft lamb, 
kid, or fried veal, make three bottoms, and {fet it in-) 
to a warm oven, till you ferveit in, ec. 2% 
Capilotado, or Cuftard, in the Hungarian falbion, tn 
the pot, or baked 1n an Oven. q 
Take two quarts of goat or cows milk, or two quarts’ 
of cream,and the whites of ivenew laid eggs,yolks and 


\ 2 








The Art and Myftery of Cookery. 82 


all, or ten yolks;a pound of fugar, halfan ounce of cina- 





mon,a little falt,and fome faffron ; {train itand bake ic. 


ina deep difh ; being baked,put on the juyce of four or 
five oranges,a little white wine,rofe-water,and beaten 
ginger jee. geese reps | 
Maree Capilotado Francow. Keay 
Roafta leg of mutton, fave thegravy; and mince it 
fmall, then {train a pound of almond pafte with fome 
mutton or capon broth cold,fome three pints and a half 
of grape verjuyce,a pound of fugar,fome cinamon,bea- 
ten pepper,and {alt;the meat and almonds being ftamp’d 
ar ' {trained,put it a boiling {oftly,and ftir it continually, 
till it be well incorporate and thick ; then ferveit ina 
difh with fome roaft chickens, pigeons, or Gapons: put 
the gravy to it, and{trow on fugar,fome-marrow, cina- 
mon, ee. - ae (c 76! Be eryhy 
_ Sometimes you may add fome interlarded bacon in- 
{tead of marrow;fome {weet herbs,and a kidney of veal. 
Sometimes eggs, currans,{affron; goofeberries,éc. 


Other made Dihes, or little Pafties called in 
talian Tortelleti. : 

Take a roft or boil’d capon, anda calves udder,or veal; 
mince it and {tamp it with fome marrow,mint,or {weet 
marjoram,put a pound of fat parmifan grated to it,halfa 
pound of fugar,and a quarter ofa pound of currans,{ome 
chopped {weet herbs,pepper,faffron; nutmeg; cinamon, 
four or five yolks of eggs; and two whites; mingle all 
together and makea piece of pafte of warm or boiling 
liquor,and fome rofe-water, fugar, butter; make fome 
great and fome very little,rouls or ftars,according to the 
judgment of the Cook; boil them inbroth, milk, or 
cream. Thus alfo fifh.Serve them with grated fat cheefe 
or parmifan, fugar, and beaten cinamon on them in a 


dithjec. Hi 2 Tor- 


Ti RAE pS See EN PTO a ee eee, Srey | al 
OM MARAT MES PACER CRAVE i KGaA TTT Gn ANDI RC RRR SSR 
ae ee < % 








Tortellett, or little Pafttes. = = 

Mince fome interlarded bacon, fome pork or any other 
meat,with fome calves udder, and put to it a pound of 
freth cheefe,fat cheefe,or parmifan,a pound of fugar,and 
fome roafted turnips or par{nips,a quarter of a pound of 
currans, pepper, cloves, nutmegs, eight eggs, faffron ; 
mingle all together, and make your pafties like little 
fithes, ftars,rouls,or like beans or peafe,boil them in flefh 
broth,and ferve them with grated cheefe and fugar,and 
ferve them hot. 


Tortelleti, ov Little Pafties otherwayes, of Beets or 
Spinage chopped very {mall ae 
Being wafhed and wrung dry,fry them in butter, put 
tothem fome {weet herbs chopped {mall, with fome 
grated parmifan, fome cinamon, cloves, fafiron, pepper, 
currans,raw eggs,and grated bread: Make your patties, 
and boil them in ftrong broth, cream, milk,or almond- 
milk : thus you may do any fifh.Serve them with fugar, 
cinamon,and grated cheefe. 1 SS eee ane 


Tortelleti, of green Peale, French Beansor any kind 
of Pulfe green or dry. 


Take peafe gren or dry,French beans,or garden beans. 
green or dry,boil them tender,and {tamp them 5 ftrain 
them through a {trainer,and put to them fome fried oni- 
ons chopped fmall,fugar, cinamon, cloves, pepper, and 
nutmeg,fome grated parmifan, or fat-cheefe, and fome 
cheefe-curds ftamped. 

Then make patte,and make little pafties, boil them 
in broth, or as beforefaid, and ferve them with fugar, 
cinamon,and grated cheefe in a fine clean dith. 2 

| | 6 


The Art and Myftery of Cookery. 85 


To boil a Gapon or chicken with Colliflowers in the 
French Fashion. . “ 

~ Crt off the buds of your flowers, and boil them in 
milk with a little mace till they be very tender; then 
take the yolks of 2 eggs, {train them with a quarter of 
a pint of fack ; then take as much thick butter, being 
drawn with a little vinegar and a flic’t lemon, brew 
them together ; then take the flowers out of the milk, — 
and put them into the butter and fack: then dith up ~ 
your Capon,being tender boil’d, upon fippets finely car- 
ved, and pour on the fauce, and ferve it-to the Table 
with a little falt.- 

To oil Gapons Chickens, Pigeons, or any Land Fowls 

in the French Falhion. 

Either theskin {tuffed with minced meat,or boned,8 
fill the vents and body ; or not boned and truft to boil, 
fill the bodies with any of the farfings following made 
of any minced meat, and feafoned with pepper, cloves, 
miace,and falt;then mince fome {weet herbs with bacon 
and fowl, veal, mutton, or lamb, and mix with it three 
or four eggs, mingle all together with grapes,goofeber- 
ries, barberries,or red currans,and fugar,ornone, fome 
pine-apple-feed,or piftaches ; fill the fowl,and ftew it in 
a {tewing-pan with fome {trong broth, as much as will 
cover them,anda little white wine;being ftewed,ferve 
themin a difh with fippets finely carved, and {flic’t 
oranges, lemons, barberries, goofeberries, {weet herbs 
chopped, and mace. 

To boil Partridges,or any of the former Fowls ftuffed with 
| any the filling aforefaid. ; 

Boil them in a pipkin with {trong broth, white-wine, 
mace,fweet herbs chopped very fine,and put fome fale, 


and ftew them leifurely ; being finely {tewed, put fome: 
H 3 | mar- 


. 2 , 


i ™~ 


fome vinegar & fome grated nutmeg,put it to the other” 


Ame. PRR Meee Cars ae ey UNA Dy a EO A ed ee None ou 
Os! "3 vine ry =; ; we 7 wey 5 ETS eee 
a : 2p hus: Z an a ioe che 
mea r = 






= 





marrow,and ftrained almonds, with rofewater to thick- 


en it,ferve them on fine carved fippets,and broth them, 
garnith the difh with grated bread and piftaches, mace, 
and lemon,or grapes. ‘ee | 


To boil Pigeons, Woodcocks, Siites, Black birds Thrufhes, 
Veldifers, Rails Quail, Larks, Sparrows, Wheat ears, 
Martins, or any {mall Land Fowl, ze 


: Woodcocks or Szites. 
- Boil them either in {trong broth or water and falt,and 
being boil’d,take out the guts,and chop them {mall with © 
the liver,put to it fome-crumb of white-bread grated,a 
little of the broth of the cock, and fome large mace, 
ftew them together with fome gravy;then diffolve the 
yolks of two eggs with fome wine vinegar, and a lit- 
tle grated nutmeg,and when you are ready to difh it,put _ 
the eggs to it,and ftir it amongft the fauce with a little 
butter,difh them on {ippets,and run the fauce over them — 
with fome beaten butter and capers, lemon minced — 
{mall, barberries or pickled grapes whole. a 
Sometimes with this fauce,boil fome flic’t onions and” 
currans in a broth by it felf: when you boil it not with — 
onions, rub the bottom of the difh with a clove or two 
of garlick. Sas | AG a 
; Boil Woodcocks or Larks otherways. ee. 
Take them with the guts in, and boil them in fome 
ftrong broth or fair water,and three or four whole oni- 
ons, larg mace,and falt;the cocks being boil’d,make fauce 
with the fome thin flices of manchet, or grated, in ano-- 
ther pipkin, and fome of the broth where the fowl] or 
cocks boil,and put to it fome butter, the guts and liver 
minced,and then have fome yolks of eggs diflolved with 


7 * 


¢ 





~ ingredients, 


e Art and Myftery of Cookery. 87 





Th 


. 


ingredients,and ftir them together,and difh the fowl on 


fine fippets,and pour on the fauce and fome flic’t lemon, 


srapes,or barberries,and run it over with beaten buter. 
To boul all manner of Sea Foul, ov any wild Fowl,as Swan, 
Whopper, Grane,Geefe, Shoveler, Hern, Bittorn,Duck, 
Widecons, Gulls, Gurlew, Teels, Ruffs, &c. 
Stuff either the skin with his own meat, being min- 
ced with lard or beef-fuet, fome {weet herbs, beaten 
nutmeg, cloves, mace, and parboil’d oyfters; mixall 


together, fill the skin, and prick it faft on the back,. 


boil it in a large ftewing pan or deep difh, with fome 
{trong broth, claret or white-wine, falt, large mace, 
two or three cloves, a bundle of {weet hefbs, or none, 
oyfter-liquor and marrow, ftew all well together. Then 
have ftewed oyfters by themfelves ready ftewed with 
an onion or two, mace, pepper, butter, and a lictle 
white-wine. | 

Then have the bottoms ofartichocks putin beaten but- 
ter,and fome boild marrow ready alfo ; then again difh 


ee oe 
oe Aer) 


up the fowl on fine carved fippets,broth the fowl ,&lay — 
on the oyfters,artichocks, marrow, barberries, flic’tle- 


mon, eel or grape;and garnilh your difh with 
grated manchet {trowed,and fome oyfters,mace,lemon,. 
and artichocks, and run it over with beaten butter. 

Otherways bone it and fill the body with a farfing or 
ftuffing made of minced mutton with f{pices, and the 
fame materials as aforefaid. 

Otherways, Make a pudding and fill the body, be- 
ing firft boned, and make the pudding of grated bread, 
{weet herbs chopped,onions,minced {uet or lard,cloves, 
mace, pepper, falc, blood, and cream ; mingleall toge- 
ther, as beforefaid in all points. 

Or a bread puddifig without blood or onions, and 
put minced meat to it, fruit, and fugar. 

Ha Other 





Bie So Nakitin ede hie (eas hey, 109" 
’ “il * a4 * ee a gee 





x tay Mh — 
et on ore eatece yeaa aiid ial. 
; : s i 


3 8 The Accomplifht COOK: 





To boil all manner of Sea Fowls, as Swan,Whopper, 
ae —Geefe, Ducks, Teels. 8c. — . 
Put your fowl being cleanfed and truffed into a pip- 


‘Cie ae 


_ Otherways, boil them in {trong broth, claret-wine, — 
mace, cloves, falt, pepper, {affron, marrow, minced, 
onions,and thickned with {trained {weet-breads of veals 

or hard eggs ftrained with broth, and garnifhed with — 
barberries, lemon,grapes, red currans, or goofeberries. 





kin fit for it, andboil it with ftrong broth or fair — 


{pring water, {cum it clean, and put in three or four 


flic’t onions, fome large mace, currans, raifins, fome ca- 


pers, a bundle of tweét herbs, grated or ftrained bread, 


white-wine, two or three cloves, and pepper ; being — 
finely boil’d, flafh it on the breaft, and difhiton fine 


carved fippets ; broth it, and lay on flic’t lemon and a 


lemon peel, barberries or grapes, runit over with bea- 
ten butter, fugar, or ginger, and trim the difh fides — 


with grated breadin place of beaten ginger. — 
; To boil thefe Fowls otherways. 


You may add fome oyfter liquor, . barberries, _ 


grapes, goofeberries, or lemon. 
“ And fometimes prunes, raifins, or currans. 


Otherways, half roaft any of your fowls, flafhthem — 
down the breaft, and put them ina pipkin with the — 
breaft downward, put to them two or three flic’t oni- — 
ons and carrots cut like lard, fome mace, pepper, and — 
falt, butter, favory, tyme, fome ftrong broth, and fome — 
white-wine ; let the broth be half wafted, and ftew ic — 
very foftly ; being finely ftewed difh it up, ferveiton 


fippets, and pour on the broth, ec. 


 Otherways boil the fow! and notroaft them,boil them — 


in {trong mutton broth, and put the fowl into a pipkin, 


boil and fcum them, put to it flic’t onions,a bunch of — 


a ae ey ae : 


The Art and Myftery of Cookery. 89 
fweet herbs, fome cloves, mace, whole pepper, and fale; 
then flafh the breaft from end to end 3 or four flafhes, 
and being boil’d, difh it up on fine carved fippets, put 
fome fugar to it, and prick a few cloves on the breaft 
of the fowl, broth it and ftrow on fine fugar,and grated 
bread. | 

Orherways. 
Put them in a ftewing pan with fome wine and ftrong 
broth,and when they boil {cum them,then put to them 
{ome flices of interlarded bacon, pepper, mace, ginger, 
cloves, cinamon, fugar, raifins of the fun, fage flowers, 
or feedsor leaves of fage : ferve them on fine carved 
es and trim the difh fides with fugar or grated 
read. 

~ Or you may make a farfing of any of the forefaid 
fowls, make it of grated cheefe, and fome of their own 
fat, two or three eggs, nutmeg, pepper, and ginger, 
fowe up the vents, boil them with bacon, and ferve 

them with a fauce made of almond pafte,a clove of 
garlick, and roafted turnips or green fauce. 

To boil any old Geefe, or any Geefe. | 

_ “Take them being powdered, and fill their bellies 
with oatmeal,being fteeped firft in warm milk or other 
liquor ; then mingle it with fome beef-{uet,minced oni- 
ons,and apples, {eafoned with cloves,mace,fome {weet 
herbs minced,and pepper, faften the neck and vent,boil 
it,and ferve it on brewes with colliflowers, cabbidge, 
turnips, and barberries, run it over with beaten butter. 
-. Thus the fmaller Fowls, as is before {pecified, or a- 


ny other. 
; To boil wild Fowl otherways, 

Boil your Fow! ia ftrong broth or water, {Cum it 
clean, and. put fome white-wine to it, currans, large 
mace, a clove or two, fome Parfley and Onions ssi 

: | ced, 





a \* 
caliente sv 


The Accomplifht G OOK: Or, ; om 





ee 


aS ¥ 2 
mae thn tx 
et apie, S110 wk 
a Ss, 
7 4 
& , 
"s) 
‘ pr leapiar incase 


together : then have fome ftewed turnips cut like lard, 
and ftewed in a pot or little pipkin with butter, mace, — 
a clove, white-wine, and fugar ; Being finely ftewed — 
ferve your fowl! on fippets finely carved, broth the — 
fowls, and pour on your Turnips, run it over with bea- — 
ten butter, a little cream, yolks of eggs, fack and fugar. — 
Scraped fu gar to trim the difh, or grated bread. | 

al Otherways. 

Half roaft your fowls, fave the gravy, and carve the 
breaft jagged; then put it ina pipkin, and ftick here 
and thereaclove, and put fome flic’t onions, chopped — 
parfley, flic’t ginger, pepper, and gravy, {trained bread, 
with claret wine, currans, or capers, broth, mace, bar- 
berries, and fugar; being finely boil’d or ftewed, ferve — 
it on carved fippets, and run it over with beaten butter, 
andalemon peel. — : | 


To boil thefe aforefacd Fowls otherways, with Mufcles, Oy- 
fers, or Gockcles 3 or fried Wickles tn Butter, and after 
Stewed with Butter, white Wine, Nutmeg, a flict Orange, 
and gravy. a ae 

Either boil the Fowl] or roaft them, boil them by — 
themfelves in water and falt, {Cum them clean, and put — 
tothem mace, {weet herbs, and onions chopped toge- ~ 
ther, {ome white-wine,pepper, and fugar,if you pleafe, 
and a few cloves {tuck in the fowls,fome grated or ftrai- — 
ned bread with fome of the broth, and giveit a warm; — 
difh up the fowls on fine fippets, or French bread,. and 





carve the breaft, brothit, and pour on your fhell-fith, 
runitover with beaten butter, and flic’t lemon or o- 
range. : . 
Othermays in the French Fafloton. ; 

Half roaft the fowls,and put them ina pipkin with the — 
gravy,then have time,parfley fage,marjoram,& favory 5 
mince 


re ar. | , 
* 


~The Art and Myftery of Qookery. 9 





mince all together with a handful of raifins of the Sun, 
put them into the pipkin with fome mutton broth,fome 
fack or white-wine,large mace,cloves,falt, and fugar. 
Then have the other half of the fruit and herbs being 
minced,beat them with the white of an egg,and fry icin 
fuet or butter as big as little figs and they will look 


sreen. ree 
~ Dith up the fowls on fippets, broth it, and ferve the 
fried herbs with eggs on them and {craped fugar, 


To boil Goofe-Giblets,or the Giblets of any Fowl, 


Boil them whole, being finely {calded; boil them in 
water and falt, two or three blades of mace, and ferve 
them on fippets finely carved with beaten butter, le- 
mon, fcalded goofeberries, and mace,or {calded grapes, 
barberries or flic’t lemon. ; ; 

Or you may for variety ufe the yolks of two or three 
eggs,beatten butter, cream, a little fack, and fugar, for 
ear, | 
Otherways. : 

Boil them whole,or in pieces,and boil them in ftrong 
broth or fair water, mace, pepper, and falc, being firft 
finely {cummed,put two or three whole onions,butter, 
and goofeberries,run it over with beaten butter,being 
firft difhed on fippetts ; make a pudding in the neck, as 
you may fee in the Book ofall manner of Puddings and 
Farfings, ec, we , 


Otherways. 

Boil them with fome white-wine,ftrong broth,mace, 
flict ginger,butter,and faltsthen have fome ftewed tur- 
nips or carrots cut like lard, and the giblets being fine- 
ly difhed on fippets, put on the ftewed turnips, being 
thickned with eggs,verjuyce,fugar,and lemon,¢c. A 

7 “Ay h 5 ER Aisa eos ae ae 










PRESTR NN SW ET CO RIES Gis ie By SE geile TA eas tee oe | EN ae ea 
TR ORE NS OY EN thy SSRI Hig Be, 88s Ht A Ati Aas oe ee Pam. | 
Pe ( Liner te 7 : Roy ake i: 


92 The Mbompliit COOK: O7, 










To bake Goofe Giblets, or of any Fowl, feveral = 

sent i ways for the Garnifh. — _ 

Take Giblets being finely {calded and cleanfed, fea- 

fon them lightly with pepper, falt,and nutmeg,and put — 

them into a Pye, being well joynted, and put tothem — 

«| an onionor two cut in halves, and put fome butter to — 

~~ them, and clofe them up, and bake them well, and — 
~ foak them fome three hours. | 4 | 


~ Sauce for green-Geefe. 


1. Take the juyce of forrell mixed with fcalded — 
goofe-berries,and ferved on fippets and fugar with bea- 
ten butter, ec. . 4 

Otherways. | 

2. Their bellies roafted full of goofeberies, and after — 
mixed with fugar,butter,verjuyce,and cinamon,and fer- — 
ved on fippets. se. j 


To make a grand Sallet of minced Capon Veal,roaft Mutton, — 
5 Chicken or Neats tongue. 4 
Minced capon or veal,e¢.driedTongues in thin flices, 
. lettice thred finall as the tongue, olives, capers, mufh- — 
rooms,pickled famphire,broom-buds,lemon or oranges, — 
raifins, almonds,blew figs, Virginia potato,caparones,or - 
_ crucifix peafe, currans, pickled oyfters, taragon. 


fe How to di(h it up. 

Any of thefe being thin fliced,as is fhown above faid, — 
with alittle minced taragon and onion amongftit; then 

have lettice minced as {mall as the meat by it felf,olives — 
by themfelves,capers by themfelves,famphire by it felf, 
broom-buds by it felfand pickled mufhrooms by them- 

felves,or any of the materials abovefaid. : é 

ets ar 








The Art and Myftery of Cookery. 93 


2 ee , 

Garnifh the dith with oranges and lemons in quarters 
or flices, oy] and vinegar beaten together, and poured 
over ail, ec. ¥ 


To borl all manner of Land Fowl, is follometh, 


Turkey, Buftard Peacock, Capon, Pheafant, Puller, 
Heath-pouts, Partridge, Chickens, Woodcocks, Stock- | 
Toves, Turtle-Doves, tame Pigeons, wild Pigeons, 
Rails,Quails, Black-Birds, Thrufhes, Veldifers, Snites, 
Wheatears, Larks, Sparrows, and the like. . 


Sauce for the Land Fowl, ~ 


Take boil’d prunes and ftrain them with the blood 
of the fowl,cinamon,ginger, and fugar,boil it to an in- 
different thicknefs and ferve it in faucers, and ferve in 
the difh with the fowl gravy, fauce of the fame fowl. 


To boil Pigeons. 


_ "Take Pigeons, and when you have farfed and boned 
them fry them in butter or minced lard,and put to them » 
broth,pepper,nutmeg, flic’t ginger, cinamon beaten,co- 
riander feed,raifins of the {un,currans,vinegar,and ferve 
them with this fauce,being firft {teepd init four or five 
hours, and well ftewed down. | 

Or you may add fome quince or dried cherries boil’d 
amongft. - 

In fammer you may ufe damfins,fwet herbs chopped, - 
grapes,bacon in flices, white-wine. 

Thus you may boil any {mall birds,Larks, Veldifers, 
Black-birds,cc. 


Pottage in the French Fafbion, 


Cuta breaft of mutton into {quare bits or pieces, fry 
them in butter,& put them ina pipkin with fome ftrong 
roth, 






= i Whe Accomplifht COOK: One 








broth,pepper,mace,beaten ginger,and fale; ftew it with 
half a pound of {trained almonds, fome mutton broth, - 
_ crumbs of manchet,and fome verjuyce 5 give it a warm; 
and ferve it on fippets. = 
If you would have it yellow, put in faffron; fome- 
times for change white-wine, fack, curtans, raifins,and 
fometimes incorporated with eggs and grated cheefe: 
_ Otherways change the colour green, with juyce of 
{pinage,and put to it almonds ftrained. : 


- Pottage otberways in the French Fafhion of Mutton, | 
| es Kad, or Veal. | 4 


Take beaten oatmeal and ftrain it with cold water, 
then the pot being boiled and fcummed, put in your 
ftrained oatmeal,and fome whole {pinage, lettice,endive, 
colliflowers,flic’t onions,white cabbidge,and falt; your 
pottage being almoft boil’d, put in fome verjuyce, and - 
give ita warm or twos then ferve it on fippets,and put - 
the herbs on the meat: | 


Pottage in the Englifh Falbion. a 

Take the beft old peafe you can get; wath and boil 
them in fair water, when they boil {cam them, and put 
ina piece of interlarded bacon about two pound,put in 
‘alfo a bundle of mint, or other fweet herbs; boil them 
not toothick, ferve the bacon on fippets in thin flices; 
and pour on the broth. 


Pottage without fight of Herbs. . 
Mince your herbs and ftamp them with your oatmeal, 
then {train them through a {trainer with fome of the 
broth of the pot,boil them among your mutton,& fome 
fali for your herbs take violet leaves,{trawberry leaves, 
Hs fuccory, 


ree er eee MP er ie Ne er 





’ The Art and Myftery of Cookery. 95 
fuccory, fpinage,lang de beef,{callions, parfley, and ma- 
rigold flowers, being well boil’d, ferve it on fippets. 


To pe Saufages. 


Take the lean of a leg of pork, and four pound of. 
beef-fuet, mince them very fine, and feafon‘them with 
an ounce of pepper, half'an ounce of cloves and mace,a 
handful of {age minced {mall, anda handful of falt; 
mingle all together, then brake in ten eggs, and but 
two whites ; mix thefe eggs with the other meat, and » 
fill the hogs guts ; being filled, tie the ends, and boil 
them when you ufethem. 

| Otherways. | 

You may make them of mutton, veal, or beef, kee- 

ping the order abovefaid. 


To make moft vare Saufages without skins. 


Take aleg of young pork, cut off all the lean, and 
mince it very fmall, but leave none of the ftrings of 
skins amongftit; then take two pound of beef-{uet 
{hred fmall, two handfuls of red fage, a little pepper, 
falt; and nutmeg, with a {mall peice of an onion; mince 
them together with the flefh and fuet, and being finely 
minced, put the yolks of two or three eggs, and mix all 
together, make it intoa pafte, and when you will ufe 
it, roul out as many peices as you pleafe in the form of 
an ordinary faufage, andfry them. ‘This pafte will 
keep a fortnight upon occafion. : 


Otherways. aN 
Stamp half the meat and fuer, and mince the other 
half, and feafon them as the former. F 








96 ——sé«CT ihe: Acomplifht COOK: Or, - 


‘ 


Tineke Link a 

Take the fillte ora leg of pork, and cut it into dice : 
work, with fome of the fleak of the pork cut in the © 
fame form, feafon the meat'with cloves, mace and pep, 
per, a handful of {age fine minced, with a handful of 
{alt mingle all together, fill the guts and hang them 


in the air, and boil them when you {pend them. Thefe | 
Links will ferve to ftew with divers kinds of meatse — 





re ey re rere) Meme py emer ee En Pepa tT ee | ON oan 
a 4 





ita The Art and Myftery of Cookery. 9 7 


‘Se@ion IL 


An hundred and twelve excellent 
wayes for the dreffing of Beef. . 





To boil Oxe-Cheeks. 


A is them and bone them, foak them in fair water 
four or five hours, then wath out the blood very — 
clean, pair off the ruff of the mouth, and take out the 
balls of the eyessthen ftuff them with {weet herbs,hard 
eggs, and fat, or beef-fuet, pepper, and falt mingle all 
together, and ftuff them on the infide, prick both the 
-infides together; tlien boil them amongft the other 
beef, and being very tender boild; ferve them on brew- 
‘is with interlarded bacon and Bolonza faufages, or boi- 
led links made of pork on the cheeks, cut the bacon 
“in thin flices, ferve them with faucers.of muiftard, or 
with green fatice. 


To drefs Oxe-Gheeks Otherways. 
Take out the bones and the balls of the eyes, make the 
‘mouth very clean,foak it,and wath out the blood ; then 
wipe it dry with a clean cloath, and feafon it with pep- 
per,falt,and nutmeg ; then put it in a pipkin or earthen 
“pan, with two or three great onions, fome cloves, and 
mace,cut the jaw bones in tees cut out the ea? 
3 the 













he FIRS 
Pres aaa iet 


CO 


1 ni a Noe in a 


may alfo drefsa legof beef... 6. oy 
4 : | Or thus. % oc a 
Take them and cleanfe them as before, then roaft 

them, and feafon them with pepper, fale, and nutmeg, 
fave the gravy, and being roafted put them in a pipkin 
with fome claret wine, large mace, aclove or two,and 

fome ftrong broth, ftew them till they be very tender, 
then put to them fome fryed onions, and fome prunes, 
.and.ferve them on, toafts of fried bread, or flices of 


‘French bread, and flice: of orange onthem, garnith the 


and run itover with beaten butter. This way you 


dith with grated bread.” _. a PaRS RGES: 
~. To dvefs Oxe Cheeks. in Stofado, on the Spanifh fafbion, 


Take the cheeks, bone them and cleanfe them, then 
Jay them in fteep in claret or white-sine, and wine vi- 
negar, whole cloves, mace, beaten pepper, fale, flic’t 
nutmeg, flic’c ginger, and fix or feven cloves of garlick, 

{teep them the {pace of five or fix hours, and clofe them 
up in an earthen pot or pan, with a preceof pafte, and 
the fame liquor put.to.it, fet ita baking over night for 
next day dinner, ferve it on toafts.of fine manchet fri- 
ed: then have boil’d carrrots and Jay on it, with the 
toafts of manchet laid round the difh : ‘garnifh ic wit 
flic’t lemons or oranges, and fried toafts, and varnif 
the difh with bay-leaves. te eile 
Hite stig: rae 


i 


~~. tepsite tes eseArg oe & wpatgt ie eee ws 2 a in 
E ! f sh 
% 





7 To marinate Oxe-Gheeks. 
- Being boned, roaft or ftew them very tender in a 
pipkin with fome claret, flic’t nutmegs, pepper, falt, 
and wine-vinegar ; being tender {tewed, take them up, 
and put to the liquor in a pipkina quart of wine vine 
gar, and a quart of white-wine, boil it with fome bay 


_ The Art and Myftety of Cookery. 99 


leaves, whole pepper, 2 bundle of rofemary, tyme, - 


{weet marjoram, favory, fage, and parfley, bind them 
very hard the ftreighteft {prigs, boilalfo in the liquor 
large mace, cloves, flic’t ginger, flic’t nutmegs and {alts 
then put the cheeks into the barrel, and put the liquor 
to them, and fome flic’t lemons, clofe up the head and 
keep them. Thus you may do four or five heads to- 
gether, and ferve them hot or cold. 
ent | Oxe: Cheeks in Sallet; — 

Take oxe cheeks being boned and cleanf€d, fteep 
them in claret, white-wine, or wine vinegar all night, 


the next day feafon them with nutmegs, cloves, pep- - 


per, mace, and falt, roal them up, boil them tender 1a 
water, vinegar, and falt, then prefsthem; and being 
cold, flice them in thin flices, and ferve them in a clean 
difh with oy] and vinegar. eee. : 

eG To bake Oxe cheeks in a Pafty or Pre. 

Take them being boned and foaked, boil them ten- 
der in fair water, and cleanfe them, take out the balls 
of the eyes, and feafon them with pepper, falt, and nut- 
meg, then have fome beef-fuet and fome buttock beef 
minced and laid for a bed, then lay the cheeks on ir, an 
a few whole cloves, make your Paftie in good cruft 5 
to a gallon of flower, two pound and a half of butter, 
five eggs whites and all, work the butter and eggs up 


dry into the flower, then put ina little fair water to . 


make itupintoa {tiff pafte,and work upallcold. 
j jor To 


4 Ma ae re ~~ 4 TR. 4 del tetany ‘ SAG Wang ne ic . see 
Peon PRAY ae eae Sn Nhs fe fd aid aE Pe can ecto eS ee 
¥ aa Se var ' ¥ ~ . hs Sa ee Per ie het So 
bi . i >. ‘ 7 » 5 3 - 
& | 











pa fete 
7 Veen Saat em 

R ae eee 
Ye Sodytic Dyk a Ee 


100 ~=— The Accomplifht COOK: Or, - 
| Todrefi Pallets, Nofes, and Lips of aay Beaft, = 


: teer, Oxe,or Calf. 
Take the pallats, lips, or nofes, and boil them very 
tender, then blanch them, and cut them in little {quare 
piecesas broad as a fixpence, or like lard, fry them in 
{weet butter, and being fryed, pour away the butter, 
and put toit fomeanchovies, grated nutmeg, mutton 
gravy, and falt', give it a warm onthe fire, and then 
difh it in a cleandifh with the bottom firitrubbed with 
a clove of garlick, run it over with beaten butter, juyce. 
of oranges, fried parfley, or fried marrow in yolks of 
‘two eggs, and fageleaves. — | Tere 
Sometimes add yolks of eggs ftrained, and then itis — 
a fricafe. | | 





ae pit Orherways. 
Take the pallets, lips, or nofes, and boil them very - 
‘tender, blanch them, and cut them two inches long, 
then take {ome interlarded bacon and cut it in the like 
‘proportion, feafon the pallets with falt, and broil them 
on paper ; being tender broil’d put away the fat, and. 
put them in a dith being rubbed witha clove of garlick, 
put fome mutton gravy to them ona chaffing difh of 
coals, and fome juyce of orange, &c. Ne 
To fricafe Pallets, eed 
Take beef pallets being tender boil’d and blanched, 
feafon them with beaten cloves, nutmeg, pepper, falt, 
and fome grated bread; then the pan being ready o- 
ver the fire, with fome good butter fry. them brown, 
then put them in a difh, put to them good mutton 
gravy, and diflolve two or three anchovies in the 
fauce, a little grated nutmeg, and fome juyce of le- 
mons, and ferve them uphor. | 
~ To ftew Pallets, Lips, and Nofes. 
Take them being tender boild and blanched;put them 
' inte 





‘The Art and Myftery of Cookery. 101 


into a pipkin, and cut to the bignefs of a fhilling, put to 
them fome {mall cucumbers pickled,raw calves udders, 
fome artichocks, potatoes boil’d or musk-mellon in 
{quare pieces, large mace, two or three whole cloves, 
fome {mall links or faufages,{weetbreads of veal,‘fome 
larks, or other {mall birds, as fparrows, or ox-eyes, alt, 
butter, {trong broth, marrow, white-wine, grapes, bar- 
berries, or goofeberries, yolks of hard eggs, and ftew 
them all to ether, ferve them on toafts of fine French 
bread,and flic’t lemon ; fometimes thicken the broth 
with yolks of {trained eggs and verjuyce. 


To marinate Pallets,Nofes, and Laps. 


Take them being tender boil’d and blancht,fry them 
in {weet fallet oy], or clarified butter, and being fryed 
makea pickle for them with whole pepper,large mace, 
cloves, {flic’t ginger, flict nutmeg, falt and a bundle of 
{weet herbs,as rofemary,tyme,bay-leaves,{weet marjo- 
ram,favory,parfley, and fage ; boil the {pices and herbs - 
in wine vinegar and white-wine,then put them in a bar- 
rel with the pallets, lips and nofes,and lemons,clofe them 
up for your ufe,and ferve them in a difh with oy]. 


To drefs Pallets, Lipsyand Noles, with Gollops 
of Mutton and Bacon. | 


Take them being boild tender & blanch’d,cut them as 
broad asa fhilling,as alfo fome thin collops of interlarded 
bacon,and of a leg of mutton,finely hack’d with the back 
of a knife, fry them alltogether with fome butter, and 
being finely fried, put out the butter, and put untoic , 
fome gravy, or a little mutton breth, falt, grated nut- 
meg,and a diflolved anchove ; give it a warm over the 
fire and dith it,but rub the aun with a clove of alse 
a 3 | : a 





(402 ©—- The Accomplifht COOK: Or, 


dnd then run it over with butter, juyce of orange 5 and 
falt about the difh. Fe | 


: To make a Pottage of Beef Pallets. — 

Take beef pallets that are tender boi'd and blanched; 
cut each pallet in two pieces,and fet them a ftewing be- 
tween two difhes with a fine piece of interlarded bacon, 
a handful of champignions, and five or fix fweet-breads 
of veal,a ladle full of ftrong broth,and as much mutton 
gravy,an onion or two, two or three cloves,a blade or. 
two of large mace, andan orange; as the pallets ftew 
make ready a difh with the bottoms and tops of French - 
bread {flic’t and {teeped in mutton gravy,and the broth 
the pallets were ftewed in;then you muft have the mar- 
row of two or three beef bones ftewed ina little {trong 
broth by it felfin good big gobbets:and when the pallets, 
inarrow,{weet-breads and the reft are enough,take out 
the bacon, onions, and {pices, and difh up the aforefaid 
materials on the difh of {teeped bread, lay the marrow 

_ uppermoft in pieces,then wring on thejuyce of two or 
rhree oranges,and ferve it to the table very hot. . 


To voft a dilh of Oxe Pallets with great Oyfters Vi cal, Sweet 
breads, Lamb ftones, peeping Chickens, Pigeons, flices of 
tnterlarded Bacon, large Cock-combs, and Stones, Mar- 





yow,Piftaches and Artichocks, — aa 
Take the oxe pallets and boil them tender, blanch 
them and cut them 2 inches long,!ard one half with {mal 
Jard,then have your chickens & pigeon peepers fcalded, 
drawn,and truft;fet them, and lard half of them ; then ~ 
have the lamb-{tones,parboil’d and blanched,as alfo the 
combs,and cock Mn tbet have interlarded bacon,and 
fage ; but firft {pit the birds on a fmall bird-fpic, and 
between each chicken or pigeon put on firit a flice of 
, : in- 


~ al 






* tI ei 
«fie ns 


The Art and Myftery of Cookery. 103 
interlarded bacon, and a fage leaf, then another {lice of 
bacon and a fage leafthus do tillall the birds be f{pitted; 
thus alfo the {weet-breads,lamb-{tones,and combs;then 
the oyfters being parboild, lard them with lard very 
fmall,and alfoa {mall larding prick,then beat the yolks _ 
of two or 3 eggs, and mix them witha little fine gra- 
ted manchet, falt, nutmeg, time, and rofemary minced 
very fmall,and when they are hot at the fire bafte them 
often, as alfo the lambftones and {weet-breads with the 
fame ingredients; then have the bottoms of artichocks 
ready boil’d, quartered, and fried, being firft dipped in 
butter and kept warm,and marrow dipped in butter and 
fried,asalfo the fowls and other ingredients; then difh — 
the fowl piled up in the middle upon another roaft ma- 
terial round about them in the difh,but firft rub the difh 
witha clove of garlick : the pallets by themfelves, the 
{weet-breads by themfelves, and the cocks ftones, 
combs, and Jamb-ftones by themfelves ; then the arti- 
chocks, fryed marrow, and piftaches by themfelves 5 
then make a fauce with fome claret wine, and gravy, 
nutmeg,oyfter liquor, falt, a flict or quartered onion,an 
anchove or two diflolved,and a little fweet butter,give 
ita warm or two, and put to ittwo or three flices of 
an orange, pour on the fauce very hot, and garnffh it 

with flic’t oranges and lemons. 7 
The fmalleft birds are fitteft for this difh of meat,as 
wheat-ears,martins, larks, ox-eyes,quails,{nites,or rails. 
| Oxe Pallets in Fellies. | 
Take two pair of neats or calves feet,{cald them, and 
boil them ina pot with two gallons of water,being firft 
very well boned,and the bone and fat between the claws 
taken out,and being well foaked in divers waters, {cum 
them clean; and boil them down from two gallons to 
three quarts; ftrain een and being cold take of 
} 4 the 











te MEG ¢ ee Ci Moen Cem ‘ SACP Ne te NC dete: Ee) oe) | Se a ee a 
. we ‘ Bee) : é hen ae u i 
Pa Sou ’ fat iy 
deere ” % ts ~~ pene: PA r 





104 The Accomplift COOK: Or, 


the top and bottom,and put it into a pipkin with whole 
cinamon, ginger, flictand quartered nutmeg, two or 
three blades of large mace, falt, three pints of white- 
wine, and half a pint of grape-verjuyce or rofe vinegar, 
two pound and a halfof fugar, the whites of ten eggs 

well beaten to froth, ftir them all together in a pipkin, 

being well warmed and the jelly melted,putin the eggs, 

and fet it over a charcoal-fire kindled before,ftew iton 

that fire halfan hour before you boil it up, and when it 

isjufta boiling takeit off, before you runit let itcoo] 
a little,then run it through your jelly bag once or twice ; 

then the pallets being tender boild and blanched, cut. 
them into dice-work with fome lamb-ftones, veal, 

f{weet-breads, cock-combs,and ftones, potatoes, or arti- 
chocks all cut into dice-work,preferved barberries, or 
calves nofes, and lips,preferved quinces, dryed or green 
neats tongues,in the {ame work,or neats feet,all of thefe 
together, or any one of them; boil them in white-wine 
or fack,with nutmeg, flic’t ginger,coriander, caraway, 

or fennil-feed, make feveral beds, or layes of thefe 
things,and run the jelly over them many times after one 
is cold, according as you have forts of colours ofjellies, 
or elfe put all at once;garnith it with preferved oranges, 

or green citron cut like lard. 


To bake Beef-Pallets. 








- 


Provide pallets, lipsand nofes,boild tender and blanch- 


ed,cock-{tones, and combs, or lamb f{tones, and fweet- 
breads cut into pieces,fcald the ftones,combs,and pallets 
{lic’t or in pieces as big as the lamb ftones,half a pint of 

reat oyfters parboil'd in their own liquor, quarter’d — 
ST retuitehes a handful, or pine kernels, a few pickled 
broom buds, fome fine interlarded bacon flic’t nD 
flices 





s a Es j t 4 ’ ¥ 

‘The Art and Myftery of Cookery. | Io 
flices being alfo fcalded, ten chefnuts roafted & blanch- 
ed; feafon all thefe together with falt, nutmeg, anda 
good quantity of large mace, fill the pie, and put toic 
good butter, clofe it up and bake it, make liquor for ir, 
then beat fome butter, and three or four yolks of eggs 
with white or claret wine,cut up the lid,and pour it on 


the meat,fhaking it well together, then lay on flic’t le- 
mon and pickled barberries, &c. 


To drefia Neats-Tongue boil'd divers ways, — 


Take a Neats-tongue of three or four days powder- 
ing, being tender boil'd, ferve it on cheat bread for 
brewis,difh on the tongue in halves or whole,and ferve 
an udder with it being of the fame powdering and falt- 
ing,finely blanched,put to them the clear fat of the beef 
onthe tongue, and white fippets round thedith, run 
them over with beaten burter, ec. | 


Otherways. 


- For greater fervice two udders and two tongues fine- . 
ly blanched and ferved whole. 

Sometimes for variety you may make brewis with 
fome fre fh beef or good mutton broth, with fome of the 
fat of the beef-pot 5 put it in a pipkin with fome large 
mace,a handful of parfley and forrel grofly chopped,and 
fome pepper, boil them together, and {cald the bread, 
then lay onthe boil’d tongue, mace, and fome of the 

herbs,run it over with beaten butter,flic’c lemon,goole- 

berries, barberries, or grapes. 
Or for change,put fome pared turnips boiling in fair wa- 
ter,& being tender boil’d, drain the water from them, 
difh them in acleandifh,and run them over with beaten 
butter, difh your tongues and udders on them,and your 
colliflowers on the tongues and udders, run them over 
with 


ret Se OS Fee te ee ee Pee, 2 SS . © Ae ae =” Fi Ay, Ae i a ork a = 
in ka i MB oy Nae? a . t+ beh ee * 
* ; ay ox ~ 
} 
AS stg all Saath ee 


ea he Acconeplifht COOK oa 


with beaten butter;or in place of colliflowers,carrots in 
thin quarters,or fometimes on turnips and great boil’d 
onions,or butter’d cabbidge and carrots,or par{nips,and 
carrots buttered. | | 


_ Neats Tongues and a frelth Udder in Stoffado. 

Seafon them with pepper, falt,and nutmeg, then lard 
them with great lard,and fteep them all night in claret- 
wine, wine vinegar, flict nutmegs and ginger, whole 
cloves, beaten pepper,and fale; fteep chem inan earthen 
-potor pan,and cover or clofe them up, bake them, and 
ferve them on fops of French bread,and the {pices over 
them with fome flic’t lemon, and faufages or none. 








Neats Tongues ficwed whole or in halves 


Take them being tender boil’d, and fry them whole 
or in halves, put them in a pipkin with fome gravy or 
mutton-broth,large mace, flict nutmeg, pepper,claret,a 
Jittle wine vinegar,butter,and falt;{tew them well toge- 
ther, and being almoft {tewed, put to the meat two or. 
three flices of orange, {paragus, skirrets, chefnuts, and 
ferve them on fine fippets ; run them over with beaten 
butter, flic’t lemon,and boil’d marrow over all. | 

Sometimes for the broth put fome yolks of eggs,bea- — 
ten with grape-verjuyce. 


To ftew a Neats Tongue otherrayes. 


Make a hole in the but-end of it, and mince it with 
fome fat bacon or beef-fuet,feafon it with nutmeg, falt, 
the yolk ofa raw egg,fome {weet herbs minced {mall,& 
grated parmifan, or none, fome pepper, or ginger, and 
mingle all together, fi!l the tongue and wrap it in acaul 
of veal,boil it cill it will blanch,and being blancht, wrap — 
about it fome of the fearfing with a caul of vealsthen put 
| iC 





Ave Se ARIAL le SPY Pgh ey tree 
2 di j iy 
J 4 , = 





The Art and Myftery of Cookery. 107 
it in a pipkin with fome claret and gravy, cloves, falt, 
pepper,fome grated bread, {weet herbs chopped {mal], 
fried onions,marrow boild in {trong broth, and laid over 
all,fome grapes,goofeberries,flic’t orange or lemon,and 
ferve it on fippets, run itover with beaten butter, and 
ftale grated manchet to garnifh the difh. 
Or fometimes in a broth called Brodo Laraiero, 


To hafh or flew a Neats tongue divers wayes. 


Take a Neats-tongue being tender boil’d and blancht, 
flice it into thin flices, as big and as thick asa fhilling, 
fry it in fweet butter ; and being fried, put to it fome 
ftrong broth,or good mutton-gravy,fome beaten cloves, 
mace,nutmeg,falt,and faffron;ftew them well together, 
then have fome yolks of eggs diffolved with grape ver- 
juyce, and put them into the pan, give them a tofs or 
two,and the gravy and eggs being pretty thick,difh it on 
fine fippets. 

Or make the fame,and none of thofe f{pices,but only 
cinamon,fugar,and fattron. 

Sometimes fliced as aforefaid,but in flices no bigger 
nor thicker than a three pence,and ufed in all points as 
before,but add fome onions fried, with the rongue,fome 
mufhrooms,nutmegs,and mace; and being well ftewed, 
ferve it on fine fippets,but firft rub the difh witha clove 
of garlick,and run all over with beaten butter, a fhred 
Jemon,and a {poonful of fair water. 

Sometimes you may add fome boil’d chefnuts,fweet 
herbs,capers,marrow,and grapes or barberries. | 

Or ftew them with raifins put in a pipkin,with the fli- 
ced tongue, mace,flic’t dates,blanched almonds,or pifta- 
ches, marrow,claret-wine, butter, falr, verjuyce, fugar, 
{trong broth,or gravy; and being well ftewed,diffolve 
the yolks of {ix eggs.with vinegar or grape ihe 

. \ i 





SATs al Te 





aa The Accomplifht COOK: Or, bot 
dith icup on fine fippets,flic’t lemon,and beaten butter 
over all, = me 7 


- To marinate a Neats-Tongue either whole or in halves. 


Take feven or eight Neats-tongues,or Heifer,Calves, 
Sheeps, or any tongues,boil them till chey will blanch; 
and being blanched, lard them or not lard them,as you 
pleafe ; then put them in a barrel, then make a pickle 
of whole pepper, flict ginger, wholecloves, flic’t nut- 
megs,and largemace: next havea bundle of fweet herbs, 
as tyme,rofemary ; bay-leaves, fage-leaves, winter-fa- 
vory, {weet marjoram,and parfley ; takethe ftreighteft 
{prigs of thefe herbs that you can get, and bind them up 
hard ina bundle every fort by it felf,and all into one ; 
then boil thefe {pices and herbs in as much wine vinegar | 
and white wine as will fill che veflel where the tongues 
are, and put fome {alt and flic’t lemons tothem; clofe 
them up being cold, and keep them for your ufe upon 
any occafions ferve them with fome of the {pices, liquor, 

{weet herbs, fallet oyl,and flic’t lemon or lemon-peel, 
Pack them clofe. a SS 


To fricafe Neats-Tongues. 

Being tender boil’d,flice them into thin flices,and fry 
them with {weet butter ; being fried put away the but- 
ter,and put to them fome {trong gravy or broth,nutmeg, 
pepper, falt, fome fweet herbs chopped {mall,as tyme, 
favory, {weet marjoram, and parfley ; ftew them well 
together, then diffolve fome yolks of eggs with wine- _ 
vinegar or grape-verjuyce, fome whole grapes or bar- 
berries. For the thickening ufe fine grated manchet, or 
almond-pafte {trairied, and fome times put faffron to it. 
Thus you may fricafe any Udder being tender boil’d,as 
is before-faid. ' : . : 
| . To 


me yeas ¥ F 








| 1 The Art and Myftery of Cookery. 109 


To drefs Neats-Tongues in Brodo Lardiero, or the 


Italian way. 


Boil a Neats-tongue in a pipkin whole, halves, or in 
gubbings till it may be blanched, cover it clofe, and put. 
to it two or three blades of large mace, with fome 
{trong mutton or beef broth, fome fack or white-wine, 
and fome flices of interlarded bacon, {cum it when ir 
boils, and put to it large mace, nutmeg, ginger, pepper, 
raifins, two or three whole cloves,currans, prune,fage- 
leaves, faffron, and divers cherries ; {tew it well, and 
ferveue ina fine clean {coured difh, on {flices of French- 

read. 


To drefs Neats-Tongues, as Beefs Nofes, Lips, 
and Pallets. a 

Take Neats-tongues, being tender boild and blancht, 
flice them thin,and fry them in {weet butter, being fri- 
ed put away the butter, and put to them anchovies, 
grated nutmeg, mutton gravy, and falt; give them a 
warm over the fire, and ferve them in a clean {coured 
_difh: but firft rub the difh with a clove of garlick, and 

run the meat over with fome beaten butter ,juyce ofo- 
ranges, fried parfley, fried marrow, yolks of eggs, and 
fage leaves. 
To hafh a Neats-tongue whole or tn fuces. 

Boilit tender and blanchit, then flice it into thin 
flices, or whole, put to it fome boil’d or roaft chefnuts, 
fome ftrong broth, whole cloves, pepper, falt, claree 
wine, large mace and a bundle of {weet herbs; ftew 
them all together very leifurely, and being {tewed 
ferve it onfine carved fippets, either with flic’t lemon), 


grapes, goofeberries, or barberries, and run it over 
with beaten butter. To 





> "» i ~ 2 5 4 
he F \ ou 6 GS Ee eS ae 
‘¥ by ’ 1 ian gn Io ba 
' ey me's 0's 
i _ e S 
a : peeled. 9 2: 









ss 


110 The Accomplifot COOK Or, 





oe > cnt he day Meats Tongues eee: eae 

Take falt beaten very fine, and falt-peter of each 2- 
like, rub your tongues very well with the falts, and 
cover them allover with it,and as.it wafts,put on more; 
when they are hard and {tiff they are enough, then 
roulthem in bran, and dry them before a foft fire, be- 
fore you boil them, let them liein pump water one 
night, and boil chemin pump water. __ ay tage 
 Otherways powder them with bay-falt, and being 
well fmoakt, hang them up ina garret or cellar, and 
Jet them come no more at the fire till they be boil’d. 


Zo prepare a Neats-tongue or Udder to roaft, a Stag,Hind, 

Back, Doe, Sheep, Hog, Goat, Kid, ov Galf. 

Boil them: tender and blanch them, being cold lard 

them, or roaft them plain without lard, bafte them 
with butter, and ferve them on gallendine fauce, 


To roaft a Neats Tongue. 

. ‘Take a Neats-tongue being tender: boil’d, blanched, 
and cold, cut ahole in the but-end, and mince the 
meat that you take out, then put fome {weer herbs 
finely minced to it, with a minced pippin or two, the 

olks of eggs flic’t, fome minced beef-fuet, or minced 

acon, beaten ginger and fale, fill the tongue, and ftop 
the end with‘a caul of veal, lard it and roaft it; then 
make fauce with butter, nutmeg, gravy, and juyce of 
oranges ; garnifh the difh with flic’t lemon, lemon peel 
and barberries. ong sick 

To voaft-a Neats-Tongue or Udder otherways. 

Boil it a little, blanchit, lard it with pretty big lard 
all the length of the tongue, as alfo-udders ; being firft 
feafoned wich nutmeg, pepper, cinamon, and ginger; 
ne : then 





_ The Art and Myftery of Cookery. t1t 
then {pit and roaft them, and bafte them with fweer 
butter; being rofted, drefs them with grated bread 
and flower, and fome of the {pices abovefaid, fome 
fugar, and ferve it with juyce of oranges, fugar, gravy, 
and flic’tlemononity | 
© Tomake minced Pies of a Neats tongue, 

Take a frefh Neats-tongue, boil, blanch, and-mince 
it hot or cold, then mince-four pound of beef- fuet by 
it felf, mingle them together, and feafon them with an 
ounce of cloves and mace beaten, fome fale, half a pre- 
ferved orange, and a little lemon-peel minced, with a 
quarter of a pound of fugar, four pound of currans,.a 
little verjuyce, and rofe-water, and a quarter of a pint 
of fack, ftir all together, and fill your Pies. 








To bake Neats tongues to eat cold, according to thefe figures, 





- Take'the tongues being tender boil’d and blanched, 
leave on the fat of the rootsof the tongue, and feafon 
them. well with nutmeg, pepper,’ and fale; but firft 
Jard them. with pretty big lard, and put them in the Pie 
with forme whole cloves and fome butter, clofe them. 
and bake them in fine or’courfe pafte, made only of 
boiling liquor and flour, and bafte. the cruft with eggs,. 
Bais the cruft very clofe in the filling with the raw 
eefor mutton. | | To 


eT Re eRe SEERA Ry Se ne Ae, G) ae a ay 4 en 
; e= : q t < 7 ; 2 





5 RE 





112 The Accomplifbt COOK: Or, 


To bake two Neats-tongues in a Pie to eat hot, according 
| . to thefe Figures. : 





“> "Take one of the tongues, and mince it raw,then boil 
“the other very tender,blanch it,and cutit into pieces as 
‘big'as a walnut, lard them with {mall lard being cold & 
feafoned ; then have another tongue being raw,take out 
‘the meat,and mince it with fome beef {uet or lard: then 
lay fome of the minced tongues in the bottom of thePie, 
and the pieces on it; then make balls of the other meat 
‘as big as che pieces of tongue, with fome grated bread, 
cream,yolks ofeggs, bits of artichocks,nutmeg, falt,pep- 
per, a few fweet herbs,and lay them in aPie withfdome 
Bold artichocks, marrow, grapes,chefnuts blanch’t, fli- 
ces of interlarded bacon,and butter ; clofe itp & bak 
it,then liquor it with verjuyce,gravy,and yolks ofeggs. 
| To bake a Neats tongue hot otberwayss~ 
Boil a frefh tongue very tender, and blanchit; bein 
cold flice it into thin flices, and feafon it lightly with 
pepper, nutmeg, cinamon, and ginger finely beaten ; 
then putinto the pie half a pound of currans, lay the 
‘meat on, and dates in halves, the marrow of four 
bones, large mace, grapes, or barberries, and butter 5 
clofeit up and bake it, and being baked, liquor it with 
white or claret wine, butter, fugar,andiceit, 
Orherways ot : : 
Boil it very tender, and being blanched and cold,take 
ut fome of the meat at the but-end,mince it wich poe | 
; | e€ 


ee ae ee : Sn ee EM egy ae Ss a 
: : a z Pi / ” , nee ene 





The Art and Myjtery of Cookery. 


beef-fuer; and feafon it with pepper, ginger beaten fine, 


falt,currans; grated bread, two or three yolks of eggs, — 


raifins minced,or in place of currans, a little cream, a lit- 
tle orange icone {weet herbs chopped f{mall: then 
fill the tongue and feafon it with the forefaid {pices,wrap 
it in acaul of veal,and put fome thin flices of veal under 


the tongue, as alfo thin flices of interlarded bacon, and 


oni the top large mace, marrow, and barberries,and but- 
ter over all ; clofe it up and bake it,being baked, liquor 
it, and iceit with butter; fugar; white-wine, or grape- 
verjuyce. | | 

For the paftea pottle of fower, and make itup with 
boiling liquor, and halfa pound of butter. 

To voaft a Ghine, Rib, Loin, Brisket, or Fillet of Beef. 

Draw them with parfley,rofemary, tyme,{weet mar- 
joram, fage, winter favory, or lemon, or plain without 
any ofthem, frefh or falt; as you pleafe ; broachir, or 
fpit it; roaft it and bafte it with butter; a good chine 
of beef will ask fix hours roafting. 7 

For the fauce take {trait tops of rofemary,fage-leaves, 
picked parfley; tyme, and {weet marjoram ; and f{trew 


them in wine vinegar, and the beef gravy ; or other- 


ways with gravy and juyce of oranges and lemons.Some- 
times for change in faucers of vinegar and pepper. - 


To v0a/t a Fillet of Beef, 


Takea fillet which is the tendereft part of the beef,and 


lieth in the inner part of the furloyn, cutit as big as you 
can,broach it on a broach not too big, and be careful not 
to broach it through the beft of the meat, roaft it lei/ure- 
ly,& bafte ic with {weet butter,fet a difh to fave the gra- 
vy while it eS then prepare {auce for it of good {tore 
of parfley,withafew {weet herbs chopp’d {mal,the yolks 
of three or four eggs, fometimes grofs pepper minced 

Kk among{t 


rs 


I13 


se 
¥ 


pie. 


ae. I 


yh 





-~. 






ingle 
> 


the beef. ied 
Otherways. re ! 

Sprinkle it with rofe-vinegar,claret-wine,elder-vine- 
gar,beaten cloves,nutmeg,pepper, Cinamon,ginger,cori- 
ander-feed, fennil-feed, and falt ; beat thefe things fine, 
and feafon the fillet with it,then roaft it,and bafte it with 
butter,fave the gravy,and blow off the fat,ferve it with 
juyce of orange or lemon,and a little elder-vinegar. 

| Or thus. ! 

Powder it one night,then {tuff it with parfley,tyme, 

{weet marjoram, beets, {pinage, and winter-favory, all 


_ picked and minced {mall, with the yolks of hard eggs 


mixt amongft fome pepper, ftuffit and roaft it,fave the 
gravy and {tew it with theherbs, gravy, as alfoa little 
onion, claret wine, and the juyce of an orange or two ; 
ferve it hot on this fauce,with flices of orange on it,le- 
mons, or barberries. | 


To frew a fillet of Beef in the Italian Fahion. 


Take a young tender fillet of beefjand take away all 
the skins and finews:clean from it, put to ic fome good 
white-wine(that is not too {weet ina bowl,wafhit,and . 
crufh it well in the wine,then ftrow upon ita little pep- 
per,and a powder called Tamara in Italian, and as much 
faltas will feafon it, mingle them together very well, 
and put to itas much white-wine as will cover it, laya 
trencher upon it to keep it down ina clofe pan witha 
weight on it,and let it {teep two nights and a day ; then - 
take it out and put it into a pipkin with fome good 
beef-broth,but put none of the pickle cgppbu: only beef- 
broth,and that {weet, not falt ; cover"t clofe,and fet it 

.. On 


rel 






f 


_ The Art and Myftery of Cookery. 8 eit 
‘onthe embers; then put toita few wholeclovesand | 
mace, letit {tew till it be enough; it will be very ten- 
der, and of ari excellent tafte ; ferve it with the fame 
broth as much as will cover it. | 

To make this Tamara, take two ounces of coriander- 
feed, an ounce of annifeed,an ounce of fennel-feed; two 
ounces of cloves, and an ounce of cinamon ; beat them 
into a grofs powder, with a little powder of winter- 
favory, and put them into‘a viol-glafs to keep. 


To make an excellent Pottase called Shinke. 


Take a leg of beef,and chop it into three pieces,then 
boil it in a pot with three pottles of {pring-water,a few 
Cloves, mace,and whole pepper : after the pot is {cum’d 

_ Put ina bundle of {weet morjoram, rofemary, tyme, 
winter-favory, fage, and parfley bound up hard, fome 
falt, and two or three great onions whole, then about 
an hour before dinner putin three marrow bones and 
thicken it. with fome {trained oatmeal; or manchet 
flictand fteeped with fome gravy, ftrong broth, or 
fome of the pottage; then a little before you difh up 
the Skinke, put into it a little fine powder of faffron,. 
and giveita warm or two: difh it om large {flices of 
French Bread, and difh the marrow bones on them in 
a fine clean large difh; then have two or three manchets 

cut into toafts; and being finely toafted, lay onthe 
kunckle of beef in the middle of the difh, the marrow 
bones round aboutit, and the toafts round about the 
difh brim, ferve it hot. : 

To ftew a Rump, or the fat end of a Brisket of Beef iz 

; ; the French Falbion. 

“Take aRump of beef,boil it & {cum it clean ina ftew- 

ing pan or broad mouthed LP whet it clofe,& letic 

ftew an hour;then put to-ic fome whole pepper,cloves, 
| K 2 mace, 


pal ay ei ae ee pate Nf eee ae, Re eS. lee aT ‘yi Aly ae ce a ua aL TAC) Rs ee ee a 
- es j es hk 





i 








mace, and falt, fcorch the meat with your knife to let _ 


out the gravy, then put in fome claret-wine, and halfa 
adozen of flic’t onions ; having boiled, an hour after 
- put in fome capers, or a handfull of broom-buds, and 


half. a dozen of cabbidge-lettice being firft'parboil’d in ~ 


fair water, and quartered, two or three {poonfuls of 
wine vinegar, and as much verjuyce, and let it ftew till 
it be tender; then ferve it on fippets of French bread, 
and difh it on thofe fippets ; blow the fat clean,off the 
broth, {cum it, and {tick it with fryed bread. 


A Turkifh Difh of Meat. | 
Take an interlarded piece of beef, cut it into thin 
flices, and put it intoa pot that hath a clofe cover, or 
ftewing-pan ; then put it intoa good quantity of clean. 
picked rice, skin it very well, and put it into a quan- 
tity of whole pepper, two or three whole onions, and 


Jet this boil very well, then take out ‘the onions, and - 


difh it on fippets, the thicker it is the better. 


% boil a Chine; Rump, Surloin, Brisket, Rab, Hduh, But 
tock, or Fullet of Beef pouaered, Sh 
Take any of thefe, and give them in Summer a 


weeks powdering, in Winter a fortnight,ftuff them or 


plain; if you {tuft them, do ic with all manner of {weet 

herbs, fat beef minced, and fome nutmeg ; ferve them 
onbrewis, with roots of cabbidge boil'd in mill, with 
beaten butter. ee. ay, 


To pickle voaft Beef, Chine, Surloin, Rib, Brisket, 
Flank, or Neats-Tongues, | 


Take any of the forefaid beef, as chine or fore-rib, & 


ftuft it with penniroyal,or other {weet herbs,or parfley 
minced {mall,and fome falt,prick in here & there ea 
probs whole 


a . 
ee a ee 


rt 
a 


a eee Se Oe ye ae Le he 7 Ae ee cuptete 7 Chala? «ai | 4 a Pn AYE 2 Pa es ae 
; 7 aR: ? * neh Py ee, 9 iN a 7 ‘ da phd NE * ape ; e Bitbecf ui , 
a ¢ oy ¥ os ood 


iy 


The Art and Myftery of Cookery. ‘117 
whole cloves,roaft it ; and then take claret wine, wine 
vinegar, whole pepper,rofemary, and bayes, and tyme, 
bound up clofe in a bundle, and boil’d in fome claret- 
Wine, and wine-vinegar,make the pickle, and put fome 
falt toit ; then pack it up clofe in a barrel that will but 
juft hold it, put the pickle to it, clofe it on the head, 
and keep it for your ule. 
To flew Beef in gobbets, in the French Fafbton. 

Take a flank of beef,or any part but the leg,cut it into 

slices or gobbits as big as a pullets egg, with fome gob- 


bits of fat, and boil ic in a pot or pipkin with fome 


fair {pring water, {cum it clean, and put to it an hour 


after it hath boil'd carrots, parfnips, turnips, great oni- 


ons, falt, fome cloves, mace, and whole pepper, cover it 
clofe, and ftew it till it be very tender; then half an 
hour before dinner, put into it fome picked tyme, par- 
sley,winter-favory,{weet marjoram, forrel and {pinage, 
(being a little bruifed with the back ofa ladle ) and 
fome claret-wine; then difh it on fine fippets, and ferve 
it to the table hot, garnifh ic with grapes, barberries, 
or goofeberries, fometimes ufe {pices, the bottoms of 
boil’d artichocks put into beaten butter, and grated 
nutmeg, garnifhed with barberries. bia 
Stewed Collops of Beef. 

Take fome of the buttock of beef,and cut it into thin 
flices crofs the grain of the meat, then hack them and 
fry them infweet butter, and being fryed fine and 


brown put them in a pipkin with fome {trong broth, a 
little claret wine, and fome nutmeg, {tew it very ten- 


der ; and halfanhour before you dith it, put to it fome 
good gravy, elder-vinegar, and a clove or two 5 when 
ou ferve it, put fome juyce of orange, and three or 


four slices on it, ftew down the gravy fomewhat thick, 
-and putintoit when you aifhit fome beaten butter. 


K oo Olives 
















; eS 


ifbt COOK: Or, 






me 


mg The 








ccompl. 








Olives of Beef ftewed and roaft. 
Take a buttock of beef, and cut fome of it into thin 


flices as broad as your hand, then hack them with the 


back of a knife, lard them with fmall lard, and feafon 
them with pepper, falt, and nutmeg ; then make a far- 
» fing with fome {weet herbs, tyme, onions, the yolks of 
hard eggs, beef-{uet or lard all minced, fome falt, bar- 
berries, grapes or goofeberris, feafon it with the for- 
mer {pices lightly, and work it up together, then lay it 
on the flices, and roul them up round with fome caul of 
veal, beef, or mutton, bake them in a difh within the o- 
ven,or roaft them,then put them in a pipkin with fome 
butter, and {affron, or none ; blow off the fat from the 
gravy, and put itto them, with fome artichocks, pota- 
to’s, or skirrets blanched, being firft boil’d, a little cla- 
ret-wine, and ferve them on fippets with fome {lic’t 
orange, lemon, barberries, grapes or goofeberries, 


To Make a Hajh of raw Beef. 


Mince it very fmall with fome beef-fuet or lard, 
and fome {weet herbs, fome beaten cloves and mace, 
pepper, nutmeg, anda whole onion or two, ftew all to- 
oe ina pipkin, with fome blanched chefnuts,ftrong 
roth, and fome claret; let it ftew foftly the {pace of 


three hours, that it may be very tender, then blow off 


the fat, difhit, and ferve it on fippets, garnifhit with 
barberries, grapes, or goofeberries. ! 


To make a Hafh of Beef otherwpays. 

Take fome of the buttock, cut it into thin flices, and 
hack them with the back of your knife,thenfry them 
with {weet butter, and being fried put them into a pip- 
kin with fome claret, {trong broth, or gravy, cloves, 

| mace; 





em, Pee a eager Re, om, RB a en Come Tee OR de eal Ne ey al 
ah nail awe bs al 


The Art and Myftery of Cookery. 119 
mace,pepper, falt,and fweec butter ; being tender ftew- 
ed ferve them on fine fippets, with flic’t lemon, Brapes, 

a 


barberries, or goosberries, and rubthe difh wit 
clove of garlick. 





| 3 Orherways. 
Cut fome buttock-beef into thin flices, and hack it 
with the back ofa knife, then have fome flices of inter- 
_Jarded bacon; ftew them together in a pipkin, with 


fome gravy, claret-wine, and ftrong broth, cloves, 


- mace, pepper, and fait; being tender ftewed, ferveit 
on French bread fippets. 
| y Otherways. 


Being roafted and cold cut it into very fine thin fli- 
ces, then put fome gravy to it,nutmeg, falr,a little thin 
flict onion, and claret-wine, ftew it in a pipkin, and 
being well ftewed difh ic and ferve it up, run it over 
with beaten butter and flic’t lemon, garnifh the difh 
with fippets, ec. | 
Carbonadoes of Beef, raw ,roafted, or toafted. 

Take a fat furloin, or the fore-rib, and cut it into 
fteaks half an inch thick, {prinkle it with fale, and broil 
it on the emberson a very temperate fire, and in an 
hour it will be broild enough; then ferve it with gravy, 
and onions minced and boil’d in vinegar, and pepper, 
or juyce of oranges ,nutmeg, and gravy, or vinegar, and 
pepper only, or gravy alone. : | 

- Or fteep the beef in claret wine, falt,pepper, nutmeg, 
and broil themas the former, boil up the gravy where 
it was {teeped, and ferve it for fauce with beaten butter. 

As thus you may alfo broil or toaft the {weet-breads 
when they are new, and ferve them with gravy. 


To Garbonado, broil or toaft Beef in the Italian falbion, 


Take the ribs, cut them into fteaks & hack them,then 
K4 {ea- 





es he 
Svar oi. 


a iN ee > f 4 ad 
fs 


~- 





The dccomplfos COOK? 


ae * a panne: LS 

-feafon them with pepper, falt, and coriander-feed, be: 
ing firft {prinkled with rofe-vinegar, or elder vinegar, 
~ then lay them one upon another in a difh the fpace of 
an hour, and broil or toaft them before the are, and 
ferve them with the gravy that came from them, or 
juyce of orange and the gravy boild together’ Thus al- 
fo you may do hiefers, uddders, oxe-cheeks, or neats- 
tongues, being fir{t tender broild or roafted. Tar: 
In this way alfo you may make Scotch Collops in 
thin flices, hack them with your knife, being falted, and 
fine and foftly broil’d ferve them with gravy. ‘ 





sae He) © snus 
«| & ae ad 





Beef fried divers ways, raw or roafted. 


r. Cut it in flices half an inch thick, and three fingers 
broad, falt ita little, aud being hacked with the back of 
your knife, fry it in butter witha temperatefire. 

2. Cut the other a quarter of an inch thick; and fry 
it as the former. ah iiaeneks 

3. Cut the other collop to fry as thick as half a 
crown, and as long as a card: hack them and fry them 
-as the former, but fry them not to hard, | 5 
- Thus you may fry fweetbreads of the beef. - 


Beef fried otheways, being roafted and cold. 
Slice it into good big flices, then fry them in butter, 
and ferve them with butter and vinegar, garnifh chem 


with fried parfley. 


Sauces for the raw fried Beef. 
x. Beaten butter, with flic’t lemon beaten together, 
_.2. Gravy and butter. Wks he ee 
3. Muftard, butter, and vinegar. . 
4. Butter, vinegar, minced capers, and nutmeg. 
For the garnith of this fried meat, either parlley tage, 


¥ ¢ 





Me Om ree me ee a 
3 Wea it ny , 


ge en, 
of Cookery. 3 rips 








The Art and Myftery 


clary, onions, apples, carrots, par{nips, skirrets {pinage, 
artichocks pears, quinces, flic’c oranges, or lemons, or _ 
fry them in butter. 
Thus you may fry fweet-breads, udders, and tongues 
in af of the forefaid ways, with the fame {fauces and 
arnifh. 3 | a 
if bake Beef in Lumps feveral ways, or Tongues in lumps 
- yaw, or Hetfer Udders vawor bold 

Take the buttock,brisket,fillet,or fore-rib,cut it into 
gobbetsas big as a pullets egg,with fome equal gobbets 
of fat,feafon them with pepper, falt, and nutmeg, and 
bake them with fome butter or none. (he, OE 

Make the pafte with a quarter ofa pound of butter, 

-and boiling liquor, boil the butter inthe liquor, make 

up the pafte quick and pretty ftiff for a round Pie. | 

To bake Beef, red-Deer-falhion in Pies or Pafttes either Sur- 
loin, Brisket, Buttock, or Fillet, larded or not. 

Take the furloin, bone it,and take off the great finew 
that lies on the back, lard the leaneft parts ofitwith great 
lard,being feafon’d with nutmegs, pepper,and lard three’ 
pounds; then have for the feafoning four ounces of pep- 
per,four ounces of nutmegs , two ounces of ginger,and 
a pound of falt,feafon it and put it into the Pie: but firft 
lay a bed of good {weet butter, and a bay-leaf or two, 
half an ounce of whole cloves, lay on the venifon, 
then put onall thereft of the feafoning,witha few more 
cloves,good {tore of butter,and a bay-leaf or two,clofe 
it up and bake it,it will ask eight hours foaking, being 
baked and cold, fill it up with clarified butter, ferve it, 
and a very good judgment fhall nor know it from red 
Deer. Make the pafte either fine or courfe to bake 
ithot orcold; if for hot half the feafoning,and bake ir 
in fine patfte. 

-Torthis quantity of flefh you may have three gallons of 


Beet ANE 






8 ey tye Joh ; 
rey vs) a 


* .' $62 The Accomplifht CO IK Or; 
fine flower heapt meafure, and three pound of butter; _ 
but the beft way to bake red deer, is to bake it in 

- courfe pafte either in pie or pafty, make it in rye meal 

to keep long. » igi : 

“ie Otherways, you may make it of meal 2s it comes: 

from the mill, and make it only of boiling water, and. 

no ftuff init. é 








| Orherways to be eaten cold. Bos, 
-, Take two ftoneof buttock beef, lard it with great. 
Jard, and feafon it with nutmeg, pepper, and the lard, _ 
then {teepitin a bow], tray, or earthen pan,with fome. 
wine-vinegar, cloves, mace, pepper,, and two or three 
bay-leaves : thus let it {teep four or five days, and turn- 
it twice or thrice a day: then take it and feafon it with 
cloves,mace, pepper,nutmeg,and fale; put it into a pot 
with the back-fide downward, with butter under it, 
and feafon it with a good thick coat of feafoning, and 
fome butter on it, then clofe it up and bake ir, it will 
ask fix or feven hours baking. Being. baked draw it, 
and when itis cold pour out the gravy, and boil it again 
ina pipkin, and pour it on the venifon,’ then fill up 
the pot with the clarified butter, ee. 
To make minced Pres of Beef. . 
Take of the buttock of beef, cleanfe it from the skins, 
and cutit into {mall pieces,then take half as much more 
beef-{uet as the beef, mince them together very {mall, 
and feafon them with pepper, cloves, mace, nutmeg, _ 
and falc; then have half asmuch fruit as meat, three — 
pound ofraifins, four pound of currans, two pound of 
prunes, ¢c. or plain without fruit, but only feafoned 
with the fame {pices. 
To make a Collar of Beef. : 
Take the thinneft end of a coaft of beef,boil ita little 
and lay in pump water,&a little fale three days, {hitting 
he: ig 








~The Art and Myftery of Cookery. 123 


it once a day; the laft day puta pint of claret wine to 


it, and when you take it out of the water letit lie two © 


or three hours a draining; then cut it almoft to the end 
in three flices, and bruife a little cochinel anda very 
little allum, and mingle it witha very little claret wine, 
colour the meat all over with it; then take a douzen 
of anchoves, wafh and bone them, lay them on the 
beef, & feafonit with cloves, pepper,mace, two hand- 
fuls of falt,a little {weer marjoram,and tyme ; & when 
you make it up, roull the innermoft flice firft, & the o- 
ther two upon it,being very well feafoned every where 
and bind it up hard with tape, then put it into a ftone 
pot a little bigger than the collar, and pour upon it a 
pint of claret wine, and half a pint of wine vinegar, a 
{prig of rofemary, and.a few bay-leaves ; bake it very 
well,and before it be quite cold, take it out of the pot, 
and you may keepit dry as long as you pleafe. 
Lo bake a Flank of Beef in a Gollar. 

Take a flank of beef, and lay it in pump water four 
daysand nights, fhift it twice a day, then take it out & 
dry it very well with clean cloaths, cut itin three lay- 
ers, and take out the bones and moft of the fat ; then 
take three handfuls of f{alt, and good ftore of fage chop- 
ped very {mall, mingle them, an it between the 
three layers, and lay them one upon another ; then take 
an ounce of cloves and mace, and another of nutmegs, 
beat them very well, and ftew it between the layers of 
beef, roul icupclofe together, then take fome pack- 
thred and tie it up very hard, put it in a long earthen 
pot, which is made of purpofe for that ufe, tie up the 
the top of the pot with cap paper, and {et it inan oven; 
let it ftand eight hours, when you draw it, and being 
between hot and cold, bind it up round in a cloth, tie 
it faftat both ends with packthred, and hang it up for 
your ule, af , | Some- 


i 











Re eh eae 


: The Accomp 





. ,OOK: Or, . 


ihe 








, Sometimes for variety you may ufe flices of bacon 


»btwixt the layers, and in place of fage fweet herbs, — 
and fometimes cloves of garlick. Or powder itin falt- — 
peter four or five days, then wath it off, roul it and ufe 
the fame {pices as abovefaid, and ferve it with muftard 
and {ugar, or Gallendine. a 

. To ftuff Beef with Parfley ta ferve cold, | 
Pick the parfley very fine and fhort, then mince 
fome fuet not to {mall, mingle it with the parfley, and 
make little holes in ranks, fill them hard and full, and 
being boiled and cold, flice it into thin slices, and ferve 
it with vinegar and green parsley. | we 


To make Udders either in Pie or Pafty, accerding iat 
3 ‘to thefe Figures. 


cSp Eg 
SD eee 


el = ae 





Take a young Udder and lard it with great lard,be- 
ing feafoned with nutmeg, pepper, cloves, and mace, 
boil it tender, and being cold wrap it in a caul of veal, 
but firft feafon it with the former {pices and falt; put 
it in the Pie with fome flices of veal under it, feafon 
them, and fome alfo on the top, with fome flices of 
lard and butter ; clofe it up, and being baked, liquor it 
with clarified butter. Thus for to eatcold;ifhot,liquor * 
it with white-wine, gravy and butter, 

To bake a Heifers Udder in the Italian fafhton. 
The Udder being boil’d tender, and cold, cutit into , 
dice-work like {mall dice, and feafon them with fome ~ 
cloves,mace,cinamon, ginger, fale, piftaches,or pine-ker- 
nels,fome dates,and bits of marrow, 5 feafon the afore- 
faid materials lightly and ftsmake yourPie not above i 
et é | inc 


a a 









> ; ; ret 
ea ta ke (he 


ae 


r a The Art and Myftery of Cookery. ay 7 
inch high, like a cuftard, and of cuftard-pafte, prick it, 
and dry it in the oven, and put inthe abovefaid mate- 
rials; put to it alfo fome cuftard:ftuffmadeé of good 
cream, ten eggs, and but three whites, fugar, fale, rofe- 


water, and foigg diflolved musk; bake it and ftick it 
with flic’t dates, canded piftaches, and {crape fine fugar 






on it. | | 
Otherways; boil the udder very tender, & being cold 
flice it into thin flices,as alfo fome thin flices of parmi- 
fan & interlarded bacon,fome {weet herbs chopt {mall, 
fome currans, cinamon, nutmeg;, fugar, rofe-water, 
‘and fome butter, make three bottoms of the aforefaid 
things inadifh, patty-pan, or pie, with a cut cover,and 
being baked, oe {ugar on it, or rice it. 
therways to eat hot. | 
Take an Udder boil’d and cold, flice it into thin flices, 
and feafon it with pepper,cinamon,nutmeg, ginger,and 
falt, mingle fome currans among the flices and fill the 
pie; put fome dates on the top, large mace, barberries, 
_or grapes,butter, and the marrow of 2 marrow-bones, 
clofe itup and bake it, being baked ice it; but before 
you ice it, liquor ic with butter, verjuyce and fugar. 


To few Calves or Neats Feet. 


Boil and blanch them, then part them in halves, and 
put them into a pipkin withfome ftrong broth, a little 
- powder of faffron, fweet butter, pepper, fugar, and 

{ome {weet herbs finely minced, let them ftew an hour 
and ferve them with a little grape verjuyce, ftewed a- 
mong them. 

Neats feet being fouft ferve them cold with muftard. 

To make a fricafe of Neats-Feet. 
Take them being boild and blancht,fricafe them with _ 
fome butter, and being finely fried make a fauce mi ‘ 
1X 





Otherways, | | 
Firft bone and prick them clean, then being boiled; 
blanched, or cold, cut them into gubbit sine ut them 
roth 





in a frying-pan with a ladle-full of {trong apiece 
of butter, and a little falt; after they have fried awhile, 
put tothema little chopt parfley, preen chibbolds, 
young {pear-mint, and tyme, all fhred very {mall,with 
a little beaten pepper: being almoft fried, make a lear: 
for them with the yolks of four or five eggs, fome mut- 
ton gravy, alittle nutmeg, andthejuyce of-a lemon — 
wrung therein ; put this lear to the neats feet as they fry 
in the pan, then tofs them once.or twice, and fo ferve 


them. | 
| Neats Feet larded, and roafted on a fpit. 
Take neats feet being boil’d, cold, and blanched, 
lard them whole, and then roaft them, being roafted, 
ferve them with venifon fauce made of claret wine, 
Wine-vinegar, and toafts of houfhhold bread ftrained 
with the wine through a ftrainer, with fome beaten 
cinamon and ginger, put it in a difh or pipkin, and boil 
it on the fire, witha few whole cloves, ftir it with a 
{prig of rofemary, and make it not too thick. 


To make Black Puddings-of Beefers Blood, 

Take the blood ofa beefer when itis warm, put in 
fome falt,and then {train it,and when it is through cold 
put in the groats of oatmeal well pic’t, and Jet it ftand 
foaking all night, then put in fome {weet herbs,penny- 
royal,rofemary,tyme,{avoury,fennil,or fennil-feed,pep- 
per, cloves, mace, nutmegs, and fome cream or good 
new milk; then have four or five eggs well ore 


The Art and Myftery of Cook 


——————— 





ery. 


{malls mix all well together and fill the beefers guts, 
being firft well cleanfed, fteeped, and fcalded. 


To dvefs a Difh of Tripes hot out of the pot or pan. 


Being tender boil’d, make a fauce with fome beaten 
butter, gravy,pepper, muftard, and wine-vinegar, rub a 
difh with aclove of garlick, and difh them therein ; 


then run the fauce over them with a little bruifed gar- _ 


lick amongft it, anda little wine vinegar fprinkled 
over the meat. 


% 


To make Bolonta-Saufages. 


Take a good leg of pork, and take away all the 
fat, skins, and finews, then mince and {tamp it very fine 
ina wooden or brafs mortar, weigh the meat,and to e- 
very five pound thereof take a pound of good lard cut 
as {mall as your little finger about an inch long, mingle 
it amongft the meat,and put to it halfan ounce of whole 
cloves,as much beaten pepper, with the fame quantity 
of nutmegs and mace finely beaten alfo, anounce of 
whole carraway-feed,falt eight ounces,cocherel bruifed. 


witha little allom beaten and diffolved in fack, and — 


{tamped among{t the meat: then take beefers guts, cut 
of the biggeft of the {mall guts,a yard long, and being 
clean {coured put them in brine a week or eight days, it 
ftrengthens and makes them tuff to hold filling. The 
greateit skill is in the filling of them, for if they benot 
well filled they will grow rufty; then being filled put 
them a {moaking three or four days, and hang them in 
the air, infome Garret or in a Cellar, for they muftnot 
comeany more atthe fre; and ina quarter of a year 
they will be eatable. 

” , Sectiqn: 


x ey, ee a Gl NOP hey, eae Wee OC, 0 a ae aa oe 
i 


and put in the blood with good beef-fuet not cut too - 





/ 


“Se@ion I 


val 


The A-la-mode ways of drefing the : 
Heads of any Beafis. 


\ 
a aren * 





¥ 


| To boil a Bullocks Gheek.in the Italian way. 
Re the bones and fteep the head in fair water, {hift 


it, and {crape off the {lime, Jet it lié thus in fteepa- ~ 
bout twelve hours, then boil in fair water with fome Bo. — 
lonia {aufage and a piece of interlarded bacon; the - 
cheeks and the other materials being. very tender boil- 
ed,difh it up and ferve it with fome flowers and greens 
on it,and muftard in faucers. om 
ial To ftew Bullocks Cheeks. ‘ 
Take the Cheeks being well foaked or fteeped, {pit 
and half roaft them,fave the gravy, and put them into a 
pipkin with fome claret-wine, gravy, and fome {trong 
broth,flic’t nutmeg, ginger,pepper,falt and fome minced 
onions fried ; ftew it the {pace of two hours on a foft 
fire, and being finely ftewed, ferve it on carved fippets: 
Otberways. 


_ Take out the bones, balls of the eyes, and the ruff of 
the mouth, fteep it well in fair water and fhift it often : 
being well cleans’d fromthe blood and flime,take it out 
ef the water,wipe it dry,and feafon it with nutmeg,pep- 

hae es ~ se 








. ~The Art and Myfery of Cookery. 129 : 


per,and falt, put them in an earthen pot one upon ano- 
ther,and put to thema pint of claret wine,a few whole 
cloves, 2 little fair water,and two three whole onions ; 
clofe up the pot and bake it,ic will ask fix hours bake- 
ing ; being tender baked, ferve it on toafts of fine man- 


chet. 

Or thus. 
~ Being baked or ftewed, you may take out the bones 
and lay them clofe together, pour the liquor to them, 
and being cold slice them into slices, and ferve them 
cold with muttard and fugar. 


To boil a Galves Head, 


_ Take the head,skin,and all unflayed,fcald it,and foak 
itin fair water a whole night or twelve hours, then 
take out the brains and boil them with fome fage, par- 
sley,or mint; being boil’d chop-them fmall together, — 
butter them and ferve them ina dith with fine fippets 
about them, the head being finely cleanfed, boil it ina 
‘clean cloth and clofe it up together again in the cloth ; 
being boil’d, lay it one fide by another with fome fine 
slices of boil’d bacon, and lay fome fine picked parsley 
‘upon it, with fome borage or other flowers. 


To hah a Galves Head, 


Take a calves head well fteeped and cleanfed from 
the blood and slime, boil it tender, then take it up and 
fet it be through cold, cut it into dice-work, as alfo the 
brains in the fame form, and fome thin slices of inter- 

larded bacon being firft boil’d put fome goofeberries to 

them, as alfo fome gravy or juyce of lemon or orange, 

and fome beaten butter; {tew all together, and being 

finely ftewed, difh it oncarved fippets, and run it over 
with beaten butter. | 

: Other- 


; , 
The Accomp 





iw COOK. On 





The head being boil’d andcold,flice is in to thin flices, 
with fome onions and the brains in the fame manner, 
then ftew them in a pipkin with fome gravy or ftrong 
mutton, broth, with nutmeg, fome mufhrooms, alittle 
white wine and beaten butter; being well ftewed to- 
gether difh them on fine fippets, and garnifh the meat 
with flic’t lemon or barberries. ae 


Otherways. 


To fouce a Calves Head. : 

Firft {cald ic and bone it, than {teep it in fair water 
the {pace of fix hour, dry it with’a clean cloth, and fea- 
fon it with fome falc and bruifed garlick (or none) then 
roul it up inacollar, bind it clofe, and boil it in white 
wine,water, and {alt ; being boil’d keep it in that fouce 
drink, and ferve it in the collar, or flice it, and ferve it 
with oy], vinegar, and pepper. This difh is very rare, 
and to agood judgment fearce difcernable. = = 


To voaft a Calves head, eg 


Take a calves head,cleave it and take out the brains, 
skins,and blood about it,then fteep them and the head in 
fair warmwater the {pace of four or five hours, fhift them 
three or four times and cleanfe the head ; then boil the 
brains,8cmake a pudding with fome grated bread,brains, 
fome beef-{uet minced {mall,with fome minced yea] & 
fage ; feafon the pudding with fome cloves,mace,falt, 
ginger, fuger,five yolks of eggs, & {affron s fill the head 
with this pudding, then clofe it up and bind it faft with 
fome packthread,{pit it,and bind on the caul round the 
head with fome of the pudding round about it,roft it 8 
fave the gravy, blow off the fat,and put to the gravy; for 
the fauce a little white-wine,a flic’t nutmeg & a piece of 
{weet butter,the juyce of an orange,falt,and ea uh 
rea 


Pi AT eRe Oy 


. Tae ee Hoa ee Pee ek) eke a BT re Re et Yi 7 
rs pile ile 5 “cS ae tlle dale aati a SN 
; by hs 7 aonaae ee? ; y 


JON ph > Yee Teal © eT “gaa oT 
Wo gly " 


Lhe Art and Myftery of Cookery. 131 


_bread up the head with fome grated bread; beaten ci- 

“hamon, minced lemon peel, and a little fale. 
| To roaft aCalves Head with Oyfters. 

~~ Split the head as to boil,and take out the béains wath- 
ing them very well with the head; cut out the tongue, 
boil it a little, and blanch it, let the brains be parbol’d 
as well as tongue, then mince the brains and tongue, 
alittle fage, oyfters, beef-fuet, very fmall; being fine- 
ly minced,mix them together with three or four yolks 
of eggs, beaten ginger, pepper, nutmegs, grated bread, 
falt,and a little fack, if the brains and eggs make ic 
not moift enough. ‘This being done parboil the calves 
head a little in fair water, then take irup:and dry it 
well ina cloth filling the holes where the brains and 
tongue lay with this farfing or pudding; bind ic up clofe 
together, and fpic it, then ftuff ic with oyfters being 


rft parboil d in their own liquor, put them into a difh - 


with minced tyme, parfley, mace, nutmeg, and pepper 
beaten very fmall; mix all thefe witha little vinegar, 
and the white of an egg,roul the oyfters in it, and make 
little holes inthe head, ftuff ic as full as you can, pur 
the oyfters but half way in, and fcuer in them with 
{prigs of tyme, roaft it and fet the difly under it to fave 
the gravy; wherein let there be oyfters, {weet herbs 
minced, a little white-wine and flic’t nutmeg: When 
the head is roafted fet the difh wherein the fauce is 
On thejcoals to ftew a little,then put ina piece of butter, 
the juyce of an orange, and falt, beating it up together: 
difh the head, and put the fauce to it, and ferveit up 
hottothetable. aE 

To bake a Galves Head in Pye or Pafty to cat hot or cold, 
. Takea calves head and cleave it,then cleanfe it & boit 
it,and being almoft boil’d,take icup,&take it from the 
bones as whole as you can, when it ts cold ftuff ic with 

. hz twee 









132 The Accompliftt COOK: Or, 


Aiveet herbs,yolks of raw eggs,both finely minced with 

fome lard or beef-fuet, andraw veal; feafonic with 
nutmeg, pepper, and {alr, brake two or three raw eggs 
into it; and work it together, and ftuff the cheeks : 
the Pie being made, feafon the head with the {pices a- 
bovefaid, and firft lay in the bottom of the Pie fome 
thin flices of veal, then lay on the head, and put on it 
fome more feafoning, and coat it well with the fpices, 
clofeit up with fome butter, and bake it, being baked 
liquor it-with clarified butter,and fillitup. 

If you bake the aforefaidPie to eat hot,give it but half 
the feafoning,and put fome butter to it,with grapes, or 
gooleberries or barbeeries ; then clofe it up and bake 
it, being baked liquor it with gravy and butter beat up 
thick together 5 with thejuyce of two oranges. 





marrow-bones, and lay that onthe meat in the Pie, and 
the other half of the meat on the marrow, {tick fome 
dates on the top of the meat & clofe up. thePie,& bake 
it,é¢ being half bak’t liquor it with butter,white-wine, 

| or. 


The Art and Myftery of Cookery. 


or verjuyce, and ice it, and fet in the oven again till ic 
be iced, and 1ce it with butter, rofe-water, and fugar. 
Or you may bake them in halves wich the bones 
in, and ufe for change fome grapes, goofeberries, or 
barberries,with currans or without, and dates in halves, 


and large mace. 
| To ftew a Galves-Head. 

Firft boil it in fair water halfan hour, then take it 
up and pluck it pieces, then put it into a pipkin with 
great oyfters and fome of the broth, which boil’d it, 
(if you haveno ftronger ) a pint of white-wine or cla-. 
ret, a quarter of a pound of interlarded bacon, fome 
blanched chefnuts, the yolks of three or four hard eggs 
cut into halves, {weet herbs minced, and a little horfe- 
radifh-root fcraped, ftew all thefe an hour, thenslice 

the brains ( being parboil’d) and ftrew a little ginger, 
falt, and flower, you may putin fome juyce of {pinage, 
and fry them green with butter; then difh the meat, 
and lay the fried brains, oyfters,chefnuts, half yolks of 
eggs, and fippet it, ferve it up hot to the table. 
~ Tohalh a Calves Head. 
Take a calves-head, boil it tender, and let it be 
_throughcold, then take one halfand broil or roatft it, 
do it very whiteand fair, then take the other half and 
slice it into thin slices, fry it with clarified butter fine 
and white, then put it ina difha ftewing with fome 
fweet herbs, as rofemary, tyme, favory, falt, fome 
white-wine or claret, {ome good roa{t’ mutton gravy, 
alittle pepper and nutmeg; then take the tongue being 
being ready boil’d, anda boil’d piece of interlarded ba- 
con,slice it into thin slices,and fry it in a batter made of 
flower,eggs,nutmeg,cream,falt, and {weet herbs chop- 
ped {mall ,dip the tongue & bacon into the batter,the 
‘fry them & keep them warm till dinnner time, feafon 
L: 3 eer he 





133 


Po We Age 
NO Tuan a ie 
Fe WA a“ 

AvOe 





1340 The Accomplifht COOK: Or, 
the brains with nutmegs, fweet herbs minced bs ; 
falt, and the yolks of three or four raw eggs, mince al] 
together, and fry them in fpoonfuls, keep them warm, 
then the ftewed meat being ready difh it, and lay the 
broild fide of the head on the ftewed fide, then garnifl 

the difh with the fried meats,fome flices of oranges,and 


run it over with bearen butter and juyce of oranges. 


To bal a Calves Head. 


Takea calves head being cleft and cleanfed, and alfo 
the brains, boil the head very whiteand fine, then 
boil the brains with fome fage and other fweet herbs, 
as tyme and {weet marjoram, chop and boil'them ina 

_bag, being boil’d put them out and butter them with 
butter, falt, and vinegar, ferve them ina little difh by 
themfelves with fine thin fippits about them. | 

Then broil the head, or toaft it againft the fire, be- 
ing firft falted and fcotched with your knife, bafte it 
with butter, being finely broil’d, bread it with fine 
manchet and fine flour, brown it a littleand difhiton 
a fauce of gravy, minced capers; grated nutmeg, and a 
little beaten butter. “rep tioeg Velev ied ae 
“ To bake Lamb, 


Seafon Lamb ( as you may fee in page 209 )with nut- 
megs,papper, and falt, as you do veal, (in page or as" 
you do chickens,in pag.197,8¢ 198.for hot or cold pies, 


To boil a Lambs Head in white broth. 


Take a lambs head,cleave it,and take out the brains, 
then open the pipes of the appurtenances, and wath and 
foak the meat very clean,fet it a boiling in fair water& 
when it boils fcum ir, & put in fome large mace, whole 
cinamon,flic’t dates,fome marrow, & falt, & when the 
heads is boil’d,dith it up on fine carved fippets, & aap 
#e4 Stew ff Se 62g et Sa j f wi? Me oe es A: eee ” the 


% 





- 





~~ 
4 


f ey i ot ene @ OL Shere eer eM aa we ew oe A ee, Meso 
ba a0 if PEAY TI re Deine: oh so OD NY Me Barre We ire 


The Art and Myftery of Cooker 





oo 13 





the difh with {Craping fugar: then ftrain fix or feven 


yolks of eggs with fack or white-wine, anda. ladleful 


of cream, put it into the broth, and give ita warmon 


“the fire,ftir it, and broth the head,then lay on the head 


fome flic’t lemon,goofeberries, grapes, dates, and large 
mace. ey 
To pero 4 Lambs Head. 

Take a lambs head,cleave it,and take out the brains, 
wath and pick the head from the {lime and filth, and 
fteep it in fair water, fhift it twice in an hour,as alfo the 
appurtenances,then fet it a boiling on the fre with fome 
{trong broth, and when it boils fcumit, and putina 
large mace or two,fome capers, quarters of pears, a lit- 


‘tle white wine,fome gravy,marrow,and fome marigold 
_ flowers ; being finely ftewed,ferve ft on carved {ippets, 


and broth it, lay on it flict lemon, and fcalded goofe- 
berries or barberries.. 
To boil a Lambs Headotherways. 

Make a forcing or pudding of the brains,being boil’d 
and cold cut them into bits, then mince a little veal or 
Jamb with fome beef-fuet, and put to it fome grated 
bread,nutmeg, pepper, falc, {ome fweet herbs minced, 
{mall,and three or four raw eggs,work all together,and 
fill the head with this pudding, being cleft,fteeped, and 
after dried in acleancloth, ftew it ina {tewing-pan or 
between two difhes with fome {trong broth ; then take 
the remainder of this forcing or pudding,and make it in- 
to balls,put them a boiling with the head,and add fome 
white-wine, a whole onion, and fome flic’t, pipins or 
pears,or {quare bits like dice, fome bits of artichocks, 
fage-leaves,large mace,and lettice boil’d and quartered, 
and put in beaten butter ; being finely ftewed,cifhit up 
on fippets,and put the balls and the other materials on it, 
brothit andrun it over with beaten butter and lemon. 

: L 4 Section 





FOE he eee Eee mice Ue 
nr. ak " bi Deer id 





~ SeGion: IV. pists 


The rareft Ways of Fatih i all man- 
ner of Loaft Meats, extber of Pleo 
or Fowl, by Sea or land, with their 
Sauces that preper) —s to them. 





a ways of breading sr dredging of Meats and Fer 


“Rated bread and flower. 

(9 2. Grated bread,and {weet herbs minced,and 
dried, or beat to powder, mixed with the bread. 

he ‘Lemon in powder ,or orange peel mixt with bread _ 

and flower, minced {mall or in powder. 

4. Cinamon, bread, flour, fugar made fine or in 
powder. 

5. Grated bread, Fennil feed, coriander-feed, cina- 
mon, and fugar. 

6. For pigs,grated bread, flour,nutmeg, ginger, pep- 
per, fugar 3 but firft bafte it with the jucye’of lemons, or 
oranges, and the yolks of eggs. 

7a bread, fugar,and {alt mixed together, 
Divers Baftings for roaft Meats. 

1. Freth butter. 

2. Clarified fuet. 

3. Claret wine, with a bundle of fage, rofemary, 
tyme, and parfley, bafte the mutton with thefe herbs 
and wine. 


q. Water and fale, 
5. Cream 


eae ee 





f 


ae. The Art and Myftery of C 
_ 5. Cream and melted butter, thus flay’d pigs com- 


monly. 
6. Yolks of eggs, juyce of oranges and biskets, the 





okery. 


meat being almoft rofted, comfits for fome fine large 


fowls,as a peacock, buftard,or turkey. 3 
To voaft a (houlder of Mutton in a moft excellent new way 
— with Oyfters and other materials, 
Take three pints of great oyfters and parboil them 
in their own liquor, then put away the liquor and wafh 
them with fome white-wine, then dry them with a 


clean cloth and feafon them with nutmeg and falt, then © 


{tuff the fhoulder, and lard it with fome anchoves ; be- 
ing clean wathed {pit it,and lay it to the fire,and bafte it 
with whiteor claret wine, then take the bottoms of 
fix artichocks, pared from the leaves and boil’d tender, 
then take them out of the liquor and put them into bea- 
ten butter,with the marrow of {ix marrow-bones, and 
keep them warm bya fire or in an oven, then put to 
them fome flic’d nutemeg, falt, the gravy of a leg of 
roa{t mutton, the Juyce of two oranges,and fome great 
oyiters a pint, being firft parboil’d, and mingle with 
- them alittle musk or ambergreefe ; then difh up the 
- fhoulder of mutton,and havea fauce made for it of gra- 
vy which came from the roaft fhoulder of mutton {tuff 
éd with oyfters, and anchovies, blow off the fat, then 
put to the gravy a little white-wine,fome oyfter liquor, 
a whole onion, and fome f{tript tyme, and boil up the 
fauce, then putit in a fair difh, and lay the {houlder of 
mutton on it, and the bottoms of the artichocks 
round the difh brims, and put the marrow and the 
oyfters on the artichoke bottoms,with fome flic’t lemon 
on the fhoulder of mutton, andferveit uphot. — 
To roaft a Shoulder of Mutton with Oyfters otherways. 

Take great oyfters,and being opened,parboil em in 

: their 


| 


i 


= ¥ i Sa ae ae ey fol ne mee Sr Ee Fe Ae Ps Oe I et Ag * SN, Tea) 12 a ts AE | yg Ge ae A 
‘ faa aces Fi Tt | tae } i nee 
via eee +* - Sk . 
ey aD Me 


137, 


aR mA ath Sp sale ak CNA PARE aka 2 o tC he ee th. aia. 
138° The Accomplifht COOK: Of, 


their own liquor,beard them and wath thenrin fome vi- 
negar, then wipe them dry,and pyt to them grated nut- 
meg,pepper,fome broom-buds,and two or three ancho- 
ves; being finely cleanfed, wafhed, and cut into little. 
bits, the yolk of a raw egg or two diflolved, fome falt, 
a little famphire cut {mall,and mingle all together,then — 
ftuff the fhoulder, roaft it, ahd bafte ic with fweet but- — 
ter, and being roafted make fauce with the gravy,white 
wine,oyfter liquor,and fome oyfters,then boil the fauce 
up and blow off the fat, beat it up thick with the yolk 

, of an egg or two and ferve the fhoulder up hot with 
the fauce,and fome flic’t lemon on it. 

therways. : 

The oyfters being opened parboil them in their li- 
quor, beard them and wipe them dry,being firft wafhed 
out of their own liquor with fome vinegar,put them in 
a difh with fome time,{weet marjoram, nutmeg,and le- 
mon-peel all minced very fmall, but only the oyfters 
whole, anda little falt, and mingle all together, then 
make little holes in the upper fide of the mutton, and — 
fill them with this compofition. Roaft the fhoul- 
der of mutton; and bafte it with butter,feta difh under — 
it to fave the gravy that drippeth fromits; then for the 
fauce take fome of the oyfters,and a whole onion,ftew 
them'together with fome of the oyfter-liquor they were ~ 
parboil’d in,and the gravy that dripped from the fhoul- 
der, (but firft blow off the fat) and boil upall together 
pretty thick, with the yolk of an egg,fome verjuyce,the 
flice of an orange;and ferve the mutton on it hot. 

~ Or make fauce with fome oyfters being firft parboil’d 
in their liquor, put to them fome mutton gravy,oyfter- 
liquor, a whole onion, a little white-wine, and large — 
mace, boil it up and garnifh the difh with barberries, 
flic’t lemon, large mace'and oyfters. ASGSa 
> ee aa _ Other 






The Art and Myftery of Cookery. 139 


A 
~Othertimes for change make fauce with capers, 
reat oyfters, gravy, 2 whole onion, claret-wine, nur- 
meg, and the juyce of two or three oranges beaten up 
thick with fome butter and falt. 


To voaft a Shoulder of Mutton with Oyfters. 


Take a fhoulder of mutton androftit, thenmake 
fauce with fome gravy, claret-wine, pepper, grated 
nutmeg, flict lemon, and broom-buds, give ita warm 
or two,then difh the mutton,and put the fauce to it,and 
garnifh it with barberries, and flic’t lemon. 





To roaft a Chine of Mutton ether plain or with divers 
a - ftuffings, lardings and fauces. 

Firft lard it with lard, or lemon peel cut like lard, 
or with orange-peel, {tick here and there a clove, or in 
place of cloves, tops of rofemary, tyme, fage, winter- 
{avory or fweet marjoram, bafte it with butter, and 
make fauce with mutton-gravy, and nutmeg, boil itup 
with a little claret and the juyce of an orange, and rub 
the difhyou put it in witha clove of garlick. 

Or make a fauce with pickled or green cucumbers 
flict and boil’d in ftrong broth or gravy ; with fome 
{lic,t onions, an anchove or two, and fome grated nut- 
meg, ftew them well together, and ferve the mutton 
with it hot. 

Divers Sauces for roaft Mutton. , 

1. Gravy, capers, famphire, and falt, and ftew them 
well together.’ ERA Ce eS, 2 

2. Watter, onion, claret-wine, flic’t nutmeg and 
sravy boiledup. ~ ES ld gage a 

-» 3. Whole onions ftewed in {trong broth or gravy, 
white-wine, pepper, pickled capers, mace, and three or 


four flices of a lemon. 
bicgei H be och Fe 


4, mince 























140 ~— The Accomplifht COOK: Or, 


pa 
5 


+ Mincea little roaft mutton hot from the fpit,and_ 
add to it fome chopped parsley and onions, verjuyce 
or vinegar, ginger, and pepper ; {tew it very tender in 
- a pipkin, and ferve it under any joynt with fome gra- 
vy of mutton. fics | 
5. Onions, oyfter-liquor, claret, capers, or broom- 
buds, gravy, nutmeg, and falt boiled together. 
6. Chop’t parfley,verjuyce, buttter,fugar, and gravy. 
7. Take vinegar,butter,and currans,put them ina pip- 
kin with fweet herbs finely minced, the yolks of two 
hard eggs,and two or three {lices of the browneft of the 
leg,mince it alfo,fome cinamon, ginger, fugar, and falt. 
8. Pickled capers, and gravy, or gravy, and fam- 
phire, cut an inch long. ? 
g. Chopped parsley and vinegar. 
10. Salt, pepper, and juyce of oranges.: 
_ 11. Strained prunes, wine, and fugar. | 
12. White-wine, gravy, large mace, and butter 
thickned with two or three yolks of eggs. . | 


Oyfter Sauce. 
13. Oyfter-liquor and gravy boil’d together, with 
eggs and verjuyce to thicken ir, then juyce of orange, 
-and slices of lemon over all. ns 
~. 14. Onions chipped with fweet herbs, vinegar, 
gravy and falt boil'd together. 


‘Toroaft Veal divers ways with many excellent farfings, 
Puddings and Sauces, both 1n the French, Italian, and 
Exeglih falbton. | 

To make a Pudding in a Breaft of Veal, | 

Open the lower end with a harp knife clofe between 
the skin and the ribs,leave hold enough of the flefh on 
both fides,that you may put in your hand between me 
| ribs, 







Te ar a eee Oe wre Gee WR AGTNCD ERS fo ea ot) Seed oe BAY ee ie a Tee 
\ Aifaalaled ganna Deal tues AL Se Ci a aay 2 


ei ae: Pal eee 
3 <p SS te SR 


cee Th Piite 
’, Pp es 


spin Po ihe Art ba Myftery of Cookery. IAL 





ribs, and the skin; then make a pudding of grated 
white bread, two or three yolks of eggs, alittle cream, 
clean wafht currans pick’t and dried, rofe-water,cloves, 
and mace fine beaten, a little faffron, falt, beef-fuet 
minced fine, fome flic’t dates and fugar ; mingle all to- 
gether, and ftuff the breaft with it, make the pudding 
pretty ftiff, and prick onthe fweetbread wrapped in 
the caul,fpit ic and roaft it; then make fauce with fome 
claret-wine, grated nutmeg, vinegar, butter, and twoor 
three flices of orange, and boilic up, &c. 


To voaft a Breaft of Veal otherways. 

Parboil it, and lard it with fmall lard all over, or the 
one half with lard; and the other with lemon-peel, 

age-leaves, or any kind of {weet herbs; {pit itand roatt . 
it, and bafte it with fweet butter, and being roafted, 
bread it with grated bread, flower, and falt ; make 
fauce with gravy, juyce of of oranges, and flic’t lemons 
laid on it. 

; Or thus. 

Make ftuffing or farfing with a little minced veal, 
and fome tyme minced, lard,or fat bacon, a.few cloves 
and mace beaten, fale, and two or three yolks of eggs; 
mingle them all together, and fill the breaft, {cuer ir 
it up with a prick or fcuer, then make little puddings 
of the fame {tuff you ftuffed thebreaft, and having {pit- 
ted the breaft, prick upon it thofe little puddings, as 
alfo’ the fweetbreads, roaft all together, and bafte 
them with good {weet butter, being finely . roafted, 
make fauce with juyce of oranges and lem ons. 

| To voaft a Loyn of Veal.» 

Spitit and lay it to the fire,bafte it with {weet butter, 
then fet a difh under it with fome vinegar,two or three 
fage-leaves, and two or three tops of rofemary and 

| tyme, 











142 The Accomaplifbt COOK: Or, 


tyme ; let the gravy drop on them, and when the ved 
is finely roafted, give the herbs and gravy a warm ot 
two on the fire, and ferve it under the veal: . 


Another Sauce for a Loin of Veal, .» 

All manner of {weet herbs minced very {mall, the 
yolks of two or three hard eggs minced very {mall, 
and boil them together with a few currans, a little 
vrated bread, beaten cinamon, fugar; aud a whole 
clove or two, difh the veal on this fauce, with two of 
three flices of an orange. ee 


3 To roaft Olives on a Leg of Veal: : 

Cut aleg of veal into thin flies, and hack them with 
the back ofa knife; then ftrew on them a little falt, 
grated nutmeg, fweet herbs finely minced, and the 
yolks of fome herd eggs minced alfo, grated bread; a 
little beef-fuet minced, currans, and fugar, mingle all 
together, and {trew it on the olives, then roul it up 
in little rouls, {pit them and roul the caul of veal about 
them, roaft them and bafte them in {weet butter ; be- 
ing roafted; make fauce with fome of the ftuffing, ver- 
juyce, the gravy that drops from them, and fome fugar ; 
-and ferve the olives on it. 


To roaft a Leg or Fellet of Veal. dey 

Take it and ftuffit with beeffuet, feafoned with 

nutmeg, falt, and the yolks of two or three raw eggs, 

mix them with fuet, ftuff it and roaft it; -then make 

fauce with the gravy that dripped fromit, blow off 

the fat, and give it two or the warms on the fire, and 
-put to it the jayce of two or three oranges. . 








1) NoroaftVealin piece Ver. atau 
. Takea leg of veal, and cut it into {quare pieces as big 
file Gt 





The Art and Myftery of Cookery. 143 

as a hens egg, feafon them with pepper, fale,fome beaten 

cloves, and fennil-feed ; then {pit them with flices of 
“bacon between every piece ; being {pitted, put the caul 
of the veal about them and roaft them, then make the 


fauce of the gravy and the juyce of oranges. Thus you 
may do of veal fweet-breads, and lamb-{tones. 


To voaft Galves Feet. 


- Firft boil them tender and blanch them,and being cold 
lard them thick with {mall lard, then {pit them ona 
{mall {pit and roaft them,ferve them witha fauce made 
of vinegar, cinamon, fugar, and butter. . 
| To voaft a Calves Head with Oyfters. 

_ Takea Calves head and cleave it,take out the brains 
and wafh them yery well with the head, cut out 
the tongue, and boil, blanch, and parboil the brains, as 
alfo the head and tongue ; then mince the brain tongue 
with a little fage, oy{ters, marrow, or beef-{uet very 
Jmall, mix with it three or four yolks of eggs, beaten 
‘ginger,pepper, nutmeg, grated bread, falt, andalittle © 
{ack, this being done, then take the calves head,and fill 
it with this compofition where the brains and tongue 
Jay : bind it up clofe together, {pit it,and {tuff it with oy- 
{ters, compounded withnutmeg, mace, tyme, graded 
. bread,falt,and pepper - Mix all thefe with a little vine- 
garjand the white of an egg, and roul the oyfters in it ; 
_ftuff the head with it as full as you can,and roaft it tho- 
rowly,feetting a difh under it to catch the gravy, where- 
in let there be oyfters,fweet herbs minced, little white 
wine and flict nutmeg; when thehead is roafted, fet 
the difh wherein the {auce is on the coals to ftew a lit- 
tle, then put ina peice of butter,the juyce of an orange, 
and falt, beating it up thick together, difh the head,and 
put the fauce to it, and ferve it hot to the table. - 

Seve- 





Dials , ie ie! a ~ 
> at ty po ele oy Si 


144 = The Accowplifht C O OK:.0Or, 








. Several Sauces for roaftVeal, = 

1. Gravy, claret, nutmeg, vinegar, butter,fugar, and 
oranges. ck es 

2. Juyce of orange, gravy, nutmeg, and flict 
on it. 3 ie aye 

3. Vinegar and butter. — Bc... ‘wabeat 

4. All manner of {weet herbs chopped {mall with the’ 
yolks oftwo or three eggs, and boil them in vinegar, 
butter, a few bread crumbs, currans, beaten cinamon, 
fugar,and a whole clove or two, put it under the veal, 
with flices oforange and lemon about the difh, 

5. Claret fauce, ofboil’d carrots, and boil’d quinces. 
ftamped and ftrained,with lemon,nutmeg, pepper,rofe- 
vinegar, fugar, and verjuyce, boil’d to an indifferent — 
height or thicknefs, with a few.wholecloves. —_— 


Toroaft red Deer, ab : wi : 

"Take a fide,or half hanch, and either lard them with 

{mall lard,or ftick them with cloves ; but parboil them 
before you lard them, then {pit and roaft them. 


Sauces for red Deer, 


~~ 1, The gravy and fweet herbs chopped fmall and 
boil’d. together,or the gravy only. . 
“2, The juyce of oranges or lemons, and gravy. 

3. A Gallendine fauce made with ftrained bread, 
vinegar, claret wine, Cinamon, ginger, and fugar ; {train 
it, and being finely beaten with the {pices boil itup with 
a few whole cloves and a {prig of rofemary. | 

4. White bread boil’d in water pretty thick without 
{pices,and put to it fome butter,vinegar,and fugar. 

Ifyou will ftuffor farfe any venifon, ftick them with 

-rofemary,tyme,favory,or cloves,or elfe with all se 7 


lemon 


Aoi, + 


ee 
nr a 






of {weet herbs, minced with beef-{uet, lay the caul o- 
ver the fide or half hanch, and fo roaftir. 
To roaft pork with the Sauces belonging to it. 

Take a chine of Pork, draw it with fage on both 
fides being firft {pitted; then roaft ic; thus you may do 
of any other Joynt, whether Chine; Loyn,Rack,Breatt, 
or fpare-rib, or Harflet of a bacon hog; being falted a 
night or two. ~ 


duces. 
1, Gravy, chopped fage, and onions boild together 
with fome pepper. 
- 2. Muftard, vinegar, andpepper: 
3. Apples pared, quartered; and boil’d in fair water, 
with fome fugar and butter. | 
4. Gravy, onions, vinegar, and pepper. 


To roaft Pigs divers ways with their different fances, 
To roaft a Pig with the hair on. 


Take a pig and draw out his intrails or guts, liver 


and lights, draw him very clean at vent, and wipe him, ~~ 
cut off his feet, trufs him, and prick up the belly clofe, - 
{pit it, and lay it to the fire; but {Corchit not; being a 


quarter roafted, the skin will rife up in blifters from 
the flefh;then with your knife or hands pull off the skin 
and hair, and being clean flayed; cut flafhes down. to 
the bones, bafte ic with butter and cream, being but 
warm, then bread it with grated white bread,currans; 
fugar, and falt mixed together, and thus apply baft- 
ing upon dregging, till the body be covered an inch 
thick ; then the meat being throughly roafted, draw it 
and ferve it up whole, with fauce made of wine-vine- 


gar, whole cloves, cinamon, and fugar boiled to a.fyr- 


Fup. M Other 


= The Art aid Myftery of Cookery. : Ta 









ORE REE pen) atid Se DN 
The Accomp. 
1 . = fi aN wd 
~ b. . 


Spee od 1: 


4 


ys 


| » . Othermays. bey 9.0 ot aay 
- You may make a pudding in his belly, with grated 
-pread,and fome fweet herbs minced fmall, a litlte beef- 

{uet alfo minced, two or three yolks of raw eggs, gra- 
ted nutmeg, fugar, currans, cream, falt, pepper, ¢c. 
Dredge it or bread it with flower, bread, fugar, cina- 

mon flict autmeg. % OWS 1 

a To dre; a Pig the French. way. 

- ‘Take and fpit it,the Pig being {calded and drawn,an 
lay itdown tothe fire, and when thePigis through 
warm, take off the skin, and cut it off the {pit, and di - 
vide it into twenty pieces, more or lefs, ( as you pleafe) 
then take fome white-wine,and fome {trong broth; and 
{tew it therein withan onion or two minct very fmall, 
and fome {tripped tyme, {ome pepper, grated nutmeg, 
and two or three anchoves, fome elder vinegar, alittle 
butter,and fome gravy if you have it; difh it up wich - 
the fame liquor it was {tewed in, with fome French 
bread inflices under it, with oranges, and lemons upon 
It; iO b Si fb IRS 
| To voaft a P1g the placn way, foil [eee 

Scald and draw it, wafh it clean, and put fomefage 
in the belly, prick irup, and {pit it, roaitic and bafteit 
with butter, and fale it; being roafted fine and crifp, 
make fauce with chopped fage and currans well bo#l’d 
in vinegar and fair water, then putto them the gravy: 
of the Pig, alittle grated bread, the brains, fomebar- 
berries, and fugar, give thefe a warm or two, andderve 
the Pig on this fauce witha little beaten butter, ~ > 


+f 


To voaft a Pig otherways. . ids 
Takea Pig,fcald and draw it, then mince fomefweet 
herbs, either fage or penny-royal,and roul it upina balh 


i hee 












soak 


ee eae 






The Art and Mayftery of Cookery 147 


with fome butter,prick it up in the pigs belly and roaft 
him ; being roafted, make fauce with butter, vinegar, 
the brains, and fome barberries. | 
gu | Otherways. 

Draw out his bowels, and flay ic but only the head- 
tru(s the head looking over his back; and fill his bel- 
ly with a pudding made of grated bread; nutmeg, a lit, 
tle minced beef-fuet, two or three yolks of raw eggs, 
{alt, and three or four {poonfuls of good cream, fill his - 
belly and prick it up, roaft.it and bafte it withyolks of 
eggs; being roafted, wring on the juycerofa lemon, and 
bread it with grated bread, pepper, nurmeg, falc, and 
ginger, bread it quick with the bread and f{pices. | 
~ Then make. {auce with vinegar, butter, and the 
yolks of hard‘eggs minced, boil them together with 
the gravy of the Pig, and ferve it on this {auce. 


To voaft Hayes with their feveral fiuffings and fauces, 
Take a hare,flay it, fet it, and lard it with fmall lard; 
ftick it with cloves, and make a pudding in his belly 
with grated bread,grated nutmeg, beaten cinamon,{alt, 
currans, eggs,cream, and fugar ; make it good, and ftiff, 
fill the hare and roaft it: if you would have the pud- 
ding green, put juyce of fpinage, if yellow, faffron. 
did Or | Auce. | 
Beaten cinamon, nutmeg, ginger, pepper, boil'd 
prunes, and’currans ftrained, muskefied bisket-bread, 
beaten into powder, fugar, and cloves, all boiled up as 
thick as water-grewel. | 

ef To voaft a Have with the skin on. 

~ Draw a hare ( that is, the bowels out of the body) - 


wipe it clean,and makea farfing or {tuffing ofall ae 
M 2 of 








andscinamon, bread it good and thick, froth it up, and 
dith it on fauce made of grated bread, claret-wine,wine- 
vinegar, cinamon, ginger, fugar, and barbetries, boil it 


up to an indifferency. | 
: Several Sauces belonging to Rabits, — 6 
‘rt, Beaten butter, and rub the difh with a clove of 
garlick. | Cees os el meee 

- 2, Sage and parfley minced, roul it in a ball with 
~ fome butter, and fill the belly with this ‘ftuffing. 

3. Beaten butter with lemon and pepper. 

4. In the French fafhion, onions minced fmall and 
fried, and mingled with muftard and pepper. 

5. The rabits being roafted, wath the belly with 
the gravy of mutton, and add to ita flice or. two of le- 


mon. | 
To roaft Woodcocks in the Englifh Fafbion. 

Firft pull and draw them, then being wafht and 

“ truft, roaft them, bafte them with butter, and fave the 

gravy, then broil toafts and butter them 5 ‘being roa- 

{ted, bread them with bread and flower, and ferve 

them in a cleandifh on the toaft andgravy.* — ~ 

Otherways in the Evench Falhion. i 

Being new and frefh kil'd that day yowufe them,pull, 
trufs, & lard them with a broad piece’ of lard or bacon 
pricked over the breaft: being roafted, ferve them on 
broil’d toaft,put in verjuyce,or the juyce of Orange with 
the gravy, and warmed on the fre, 9° = es 

OF 


soya 





Pp Fe wi Gt and Myftery of Cookery. 149. 
, ‘Or being ftale,draw them,and put aclove or two in 
the bellies, with a piece of bacon. 


# : To voaft a Hen or Pullet. 


“ake a Pullet or Hen full of eggs, draw it and roaft 
it ; being roafted break it up, and mince the brauns in 
thin flices,fave the wings whole,or not mince the brauns, 
and leave the rump with the legs whole; ftew allin 
the gravy and a little falt. | 

_ Then have a minced lemon,and put it into the gravy, 
dith the minced meat in the midft of the dith, and the 
thighs,wings,and rumps about it. Garnifh the dith,with 
eat and femons quartered, and ferve them up co- 
vered. | | 

Sauce with Oyfters and Bacon. 

Take Oyfters being parboil’d and clenged from the 
srunds, mingle them with pepper, falt, beaten nutmeg, 
time,and {weet marjoram, fill the Pullets belly,and roaft 
it, as alfo two or three ribs of interlarded bacon,ferve it 
in two pieces into the difh with the pullet ; thenmake 
fauce of the gravy,fome of the oyfters liquor,oyfters and 
juice of oranges boil’d together,take fome of the oyfters 
out of the pullets belly, and lay on the breaft of it,then 
put the fauce to it with flices of lemon. 


Sauce for Hens or Pullets to prepare thems to voaft. 

‘Take a pullet,or hen, if Jean,lard it,if fatynot ; or lard 
either fat or lean with a piece or flice of bacon over it, 
and a peice of interlarded baconin the belly, feafoned 
with nutmeg,and pepper,and ftuck with cloves. 

Then for the fafice take the yolks of fix hard eggs 
minced {mall,put to them white-wine,or wine vinegar, 
butter, and the gravy of the hen, juyce oforange, pep- 
per, falt, and if you pleafeadd thereto muttard. 

oe M 3 Se- 









150 Accomplifh CC OR: : sata Ss 
Several other Sauces for roaft Hens. BA 
x. Take beer, falt, the yolks of three hard eggs,min- 
ced {mall, grated bread, three or four fpoonfuls of a2 
vy; and being almoft boil’d, put in the juyce of twoor 
three oranges, flices ofa lemon and orange, with lemon- 
peel fhred {mall. 4 +) oe-ae 
2. Beaten butter with juice of lemon or orange,white 
or claret wine. ey aan 
3. Gravy and claret wine boil’d witha piece of an o- 
- nion, nutmeg, and falt,ferve it with the flices of oran- 
ses or lemons, or the juyce in the fauce. “ih oe 
4. Or with oyfter-liquor,an anchove or two,nutmeg, 
and gravy,and rub the difh with a clove of garlick. 
5. Fake the yolks of hard eggsand lemon peel,mince — 
them very {mall,and ftew them in white-wine, falt,and — 
the gravy of the fowl. a. Mi 


Several Sauces for voaft Chickens, 


1, Gravy, and the juyce or flicesoforange. 89 

2. Butter, verjuyce, and gravy. of the chicken, or — 
mutton gravy, boast a 

3. Butter and vinegar boil’d together,put toita little — 
fugar, then make thin {ops of bread,lay the roaft chic- 
ken on them, and ferve them up hot. 

4, Take forrel, wath and ftamp it, then have thin 
flices of manchet,put them ina difh with fome vinegar, 
{trained forrel,fugar,fome gravy ,beaten cinamon,beaten 
butter, and fome flices of orange or lemon, andftrew — 
thereon fome cinamon andfugar. 

5. Take flic’t oranges,and put tothem a little white © 
wine,rofe-water,beaten mace, ginger, fome fugar, and 
butter;fet them on a chafing difh of coals. and ftew thems. 
then have fome flices of manchet round the difh finely. 

| carved, 





i 








= ” The Art and Myftery of Cookery. any st 


carved,and lay the chickens being roafted on the fauce. 
6. Slic’t onions,claret wine,gravy,and falt boil'd up. 
Sauces for rvoaft Pigeons or Doves. 
a1. Gravy and juyce of orange. 

2. Boil'd parfley minced,and put amongt{t fome but- 
ter and vinegar beaten up thick. facia 

3. Gravy,claret wine,and an onion ftewed together, 
with a little fale. 

4. Vine-leaves roafted with the Pigeons minced and 
put in claret-wine and ialt,boil’d together, ome butter 
and gravy. : 

5. Sweet butter and juyce of orange beat together, 
and made thick. , 

6. Minced onions boil’d in claret wine almoft dry, 
then put to it nutmeg, fugar, gravy of the fowl, and a 

little pepper. ; 
7. Orgravy of the Pigeons only. 


Sauces for all manner of roaft Land-Fowl, as Turkey, Bu- 
ftard, Peacock, Pheafant, Partridge,&c. 

1. Slic’t onions being boil’d, ftew them in fome wa- 
ter; falt, pepper,fome grated bread,and the gravy of the 
owl. / 
2. Take flicesof white-bread and boil them in fair 
water with two whole onions,fome gravy,half a grated 
nutmeg, and a little fale; {train them together through 
a ftrainer,and boil it up as thick as water grewel ; then 
add to it the “ of two eggs diflolved with the juyce 
of two oranges, ec. 

3. Take thin flices of manchet, a little of the fowl, 
fome {weet butter, grated nutmeg, pepper, and falt; 
ftew all together, and being ftewed, put in a lemon 
minced with the peel. | 

4.Onions flic’t and POLE fair water,and a little falr, 
A 4 














The Accomplife eK 


a few bread crumbs beaten,pepper,nutmeg,three fpoon- — 
fal of white wine,and fome lene pee minced, 
and boil’d all together: being almoft boil'd put in the — 
ng of anorange, beaten butter, and the gravy ofthe. 
towl. | cn) | 

5. Stamp fmall nuts to a pafte, with bread, Painies 
pepper, faffron,cloves,juyce of orange,and {trong broth, 
{train and boil them together pretty thick. a, 

6, Quince,prunes,currans,and raifins, boil’d,muskefi- 
ed bisket ftamped ana ftrained with white wine, rofe 
vinegar,nutmeg, cinamon, cloves, juyce of oranges and 
fugar, and boilit not too thick. » | ; 

7. Boil carrots and quinces,ftrain them with rofe vi- 
negar, andverjuyce, fugar, cinamon, pepper,and nut- 
meg,boil’d with a few whole cloves, and a little musk. 

8. Take amanchet,pare off the cruft and flice it,then — 
boi! icin fair water, and being boil’d fome what thick 
put in fome white wine, wine vinegar, rofe,or elder vi- 


152 





7 . 


negar, fome fugar and butter, ec. Pes ly 

9g. Almond-pafte and crumbs of manchet,ftamp them 
together with fome fugar, ginger, and {alt, ftrain them 
with grape-verjuyce,and juyce of oranges 3 boil it pret- 
ty thick. 


Sauce for a ftublle or fat Goofe 
1. The Goofe being {calded, drawn,and truft, puta 
handful of fale in the belly of it,roaft it,and make fauce 
with fowr apples flic’t, and boil’d in beer all to math, 
then put to it {ugar and beaten butter. Sometime for 
veriety add barberries and the gravy of the fow!, 
2: Roaft fowr apples of pippins, {train them, and put 
to them vinegar, fugar, gravy, barberries, grated bread, 
beaten cinamon,tmuftard, and boil’d onions ftrained and 


puc to it, hha 
Sauces 


are 





Sauces for a young fubble Goofe. 

"Take the liver and gizzard,mince it very {mall with 
fome beets, {pinage,fweet herbs, fage, falt,and fome min- 
ced lard; fill the belly of the goofe,and fow up the rump 
or vent,as alfo the neck; roaft it,and being roafted,take 


out the farfing and put it inadifh, then add toitthe - 


gravy of the goofe,verjuyce,and pepper,give ita warm, 
on the fire,and ferve it with this fauce ina clean dith. 

The French fauce for a goofe is butter, muftard,fugar, 
vinegar,and barberries. 


Sauce for a Duck, 


Onions flic’t and carrots cut {quare like dice,boil’d.in 
white-wine, {trong broth, fome gravy, minced parfley, 
favory chopped,mace,and butter ; being well {tewed to- 
gether,it will ferve for divers wild fowls,but moft pro- 
per for water fowl. 


Sauces for Duck and Mallard in the French fafhton. 

1. Vinegar and fugar boil’d toa fyrrup, with two or 
three cloves,and cinamon,or cloves only. 
- 2. Oyfter liquor, gravy of the fowl, whole onions 
boil'd in it, nutmeg, and anchove. If lean, farfe and 
fare then? | 


Sauces for any kind of roaft Sea Fowl, as Swan, Whopper, 
Crane, Shoveler,Hern, Bittern, or Geefe. | 

Make a gallendine with fome grated bread,beaten ci- 
namon,and ginger,a quartern of fugar, a quart of claret 
Wine,2 pint of wine vinegar,ftrain the aforefaid materi- 


als and boil them in a skillet wich a few whole cloves; _ 


jn the boiling ftir ic witha {prig of rofemary,add a little 
red fanders,and boil it as thick as water grewel. 


"The Art and Myftery of Cookery. 153 


Green 





port yee eihet 









‘Acomplia COOK: Or, 
. a i ctl bt , ‘ 





. 


Green Sauce for Pork, Goflings, Chickens, Lamb, or Kid. 
Stamp forrel with white-bread and pared pipkins in 
a {tone or wooden mortar, put {ugar to it, and.wine vi- 
negar, then {train it thorow a fine cloth, pretty thick, 
difh it in faucers,and {crape fugaronit. = = = sit 
ca therways. li 
Mince forrel and fage, and {ftamp them with bread,the 
yolks of hard eggs,pepper,falt,and vinegar,but no fugar 
at aul. . | 
ao O7 thus. ads 
Juyce of green white, lemon, bread, and fugar. 


To make divers orts of Vinegar. . 

Take good white-wine, and fill a firkin half full, or 
a leffer veffel,leave it unftopped, and fet it in fome hot 
place in the fun, or on the leads ofa houfe,or gutter. 

Tfyou would defire to make vinegar in hafte,put fome 
{alt,pepper,fowr leven mingled together,and a hot fteel, 
{top it up and let the Sun come hot to it. , 

If more {peedy,put good wine into an earthen pot or 
pitcher,ftop the mouth witha piece of pafte,and put it in 
lag pan or pot, boil it halfan hour, and it will grow 

owr. : 

Or not boil it,and put into it a beet root,medlars,fer- 
vices, mulberries,unripe flowers, a flice of barley bread 
hot out of the oven,or the bloffoms of fervices in their 
feafon, dry them in the {un in a glafs veffel in the man- 
ner, of rofe vinegar, fill up the glafs with clear wine vi- 
~ negar, white or claret wine,and {et it in the fun, or ina 

chimney by the fire. | 


To make Vinegar of corrupt Wine. 


Boil it, and {cum it very clean, boil away one third 


si “ama meee Ns i re Ca ey 
7 The Art and Myftery of Cookery. 155, 


part, then put it in 4 veflel,put to itfome charnel, top. “ 
the veffel clofe, and in a fhort time it will prove good 
vinegar. i 





To make Vinegar otherways. iid axis 
Take fix gallons of {trong ale of the firft running,fee, 
it abroad to cool,and being cold put barm to it,and head 

it very thorowly; then run ic up in a firkin, and 

lay it in the fun,then take four or five handfuls of beans, 

and parchthem ona fire-fhovel, or pan, being cut like 

chefnuts to roaft, put them into the vinegar as hot as. 
youcan,and ftop the bung-hole with clay; but firft put 

in a handful oftrye leven, then ftrain a good handful of 
falt, and put in alfo; let it {tand in the fun from May 

to Aygujt, and then take it away. | 


Rofe Vinegar. 

Keep Rofes dried,or dried Elder flowers,put them in- 
to feveral double glaffes or {tone bottles, write upon 
them,and fet them in the fun,by the fire,or in a warm 
oven ; when the vinegar is out,put in more flowers,put 
out the old,and fill them up with the vinegar again. 


| Pepper Vinegar. . 

Put whole pepper in a fine clothe, bind it up and put 
it in the veffel or bottle of vinegar the {pace of eight 
Days. | | 

Vinegar for Digeftion and Health. 

Take eight drams of Sea-onions, a quart of vinegar, 
and as much pepper as onions, mint, and Juniper-ber- 
ries. 

To Make ftong Wine Vinegar into Ball. 
Take bramble berries when they are halfripe,dry them » 
and 


: Pl 


156 Line Accompljnt © 2 OF eae 
and make them into powder,witha little trong vinegar, : 


Des) cd Fee 

retaking so eget : 
bya) to by 

RDS: oa 

. " Bs 9 Tal _ 

5 4 Sy 

O a 

+} 2™ 

ied I = 

% i : ? 34 

‘i . 











make little balls, and dry them in the fun, and when 
you will ufe them,take wine and heat it,put in fome of — 


dily into ftrong vinegar. 


ess . 


ee 


To make Verjuyce. nies 


Make crabs as foon as the kernels turn black,and lay 


the ball or 2 whole one,and it will be turned very fpee- 


| 


them in a heap to fweat,then pick them from ftalks and _ 


rottennefs ; and then ina long trough with ftamping 
beetles ftamp them to mafh, and make a bag of courfe 
hair-cloth as {quare as the prefs; fill it with ftamped 


crabs, and being well prefled,put it up in a clean barrel. 
vor hogs-head. : 


To make Muftard divers ways. 


Have good feed, pick itjand wath it in cold water, 


drain it, and rub it dry ina cloth very clean ; then bear _ 
it ina mortar with {trong wine-vinegar ; and 


beaten, ftrain it and keep it clofe covered.Or grind it in 
a muftard quern, or a bow] witha cannon bullet. 


Otherways. 


Make it with grape-verjuyce, common-verjuyce,ftale. 


beer, ale, butter, milk, white-wine, claret,-or juyce of 
cherries. | 


Muftard of Dijon, or French Muara. 


The feed being cleanfed,{tamp it in amortar,with vi- 
negar and honey, then take eight ounces of feed, two 


Ounces of cinamon, two ofhoney, and vinegar as much 


as 


Lr 


being fine. 





"The Art and Myftery of Cookery. 157 


‘as will ferve, good muftard not too thick, and keep i¢ 
clofe covered in little oyfter- barrels. 





To make dry Muftard very pleafant in little Loaves or 
Cakes to carry 1m ones Pocket, or to keep dry for ufe at 
anytime a 
Take two ounces of feamy, half an ounce of cina- . 
mon, and beat them in amortarvery fine with a little — 
vinegar,and honey,make a perfect pafte of it,and make 
it into little cakes or loaves, dry them inthe fun or in 
an oven, and when you would ufe them, diffolvehalf - 
a loaf or cake with fome vinegar, wine, or verjuyce. 





t 
iy 
7. a 
{ 





er 


ee ee ee : f\.¢ he] a ot 
Kise Oat EGON .oVan tae ae és 
x ~ © 4 Fy q i mn ‘ © > Se veh % ‘ fh 
ify vai ‘ ‘ . 7 ar ee 4a + Seek , . 


The beft may of making-all manner 


ans adi pe wi 
mee? ip tS 








1. Raye * = ; { a SOU 2s 


To make a grand Sallet of divers Compounds. 

Ake a cold roaft capon and cut it into thin flices 

{quare and {mall,(or any other roaft meat as chick- 
en,mutton, veal,or neats tongue)mingle wichita little 
minced taragon and an onion, then mince lettice as 
fmall-asthe capon,mingle all together, and lay itinthe 
middle of a clean fcoured difh. Then lay capers by — 
themfelves, olives by themfelves, famphire by it felf, — 
broom buds,pickled mufhrooms,pickled oyfters,lemon, 
orange, railins, ‘almonds, blue-figs, Virginia Potato, 
caperons, crucifix peafe,and the like, more or lefs,asoc- 
cafion ferves, lay them by themfelves in the difh round 
the meat in partitions. Then garnifh the difh fides with 
quarters of oranges, or lemons, or in flices, oyl and vi- 
negar beaten together, and poured on it over all. 

On fith days,a roaft,broil’d,or boil’d pike boned,and 

being cold, flice it as abovefaid. 


Another way for agrand Sallet. ae 
Take the buds of all good fallet herbs,capers, dates, 


re raifins, almonds, currans, figs,orangado. Then firft ofall 


lay itina large difh, the herbs being finely picked ve 
| wath- 


= \ ‘ oe Pa a 





The Art and My tery of Cookery. 159 
wathed,f{wing them in a clean napkin;then lay the other 
materials round the difh,and amongft the herbs fome of 
all the aforefaid fruits, fome fine fugar,and on the top 

{lic’t lemon, and eggs fcarfe hard cut in halves, and laid 
round the fide of the difh, and fcrape fugar over alls 
or you may lay every fruit in partitions feveral. 


Otherways. banopbinl brig 
Dith firft round the centre flic’t figs, then currans, 
capers, almonds, and raifins together; next’ beyond 
that, olives, beets, cabbidge-lettice, cucumbers; or flic’t 
lemon carved; then oyl and vinegar beaten’together, 
the beaft oyl you can get, and fugar or none,-as you 
pleafe; garnifhthe brims of the difh with orangado, 
flic’t lemon jagged, olives ftuck with flic’t almonds, 
fugar or none.: : 28 10,2710) 
Another grand Sallet, 9 bona 
' Take all manner of knots of buds of fallet herbs, buds 
of pot-herbs, or any green herbs, as fage,: mint, balm, 
burner, violet-leaves, red coleworts {treaked-of divers 
fine colours, lettice, any flowers, blanched ‘almonds, 
blue figs, raifins of the fun, currans, capers, olives; then 
difh the fallet in a heap or pile; being mixed with fome 
of the fruits, and all finely wafhed and {wung ina nap- 
kin, then about the centre lay firft flict figs, next ca- 
_ pers and currans, then almonds and raifins, next olives, 
_and laftly either jagged beats, jagged lemons, jagged cu- 
_ cumbers, or cabbidge lettice in quarters, good oyl and 
‘wine vinegar, fugar or none. | 
hak elpes arse Orherways. 

The :youngeft and fmalleft leaves of fpinage, the 
{malleft alfo of forrel, well wafhed currans, and red 
beets round the centre being finely carved, oy] and vi- 
| hegar, and the dith garnifhed with lemon and scr 

i | | Lper 





ka 1 





AY OR eA 


inh bee eg shee 3 saat is 
ERA wer PE ae ey a 
a a ? ok at ape een : % ; Ne By . vr e mn i) “ , ® 
iyahiz(Ht €. G . ‘ 
10 The Accomplifht C > Or: 
; “e vas % wR. 
. *, 





y bvorl (Other Grand. Salletse tte. ope 
Take green purflain and pick it leaf by leaf, wathit 
and {wing it in anapkin;then being difht in a fair clean 
difh, and finely piled up in a heap in the midft of it lay 
round about the centre of the fallet pickled capers; 
currans, and raifins of the fun, wafhed,pickled,mingled, 
and laid round it : about them fome carved cucumbers 
in flices or halves,and laid round alfo. Then garnifh the 
difh brims. with borage, or clove jelly-flowers. Or 
_ otherways with jagged cucumber-peels, olives, capers; 
and raifins of the fun,then the beft fallet-oy] and wine- 
vinegar. 7 beat ay 


Other oy Sallets. 


All forts of good herbs, the little leaves of red fagé; 
the fmalleft leaves of forrel, and the leaves of parfley | 
pickt very {mall,the youngeft and {malleft leaves of {pi- 
nage, fome leaves of burnet, the {malleft leaves of lec= 
tice,white endive and charvel all finely pick’t and wath= 
ed, and {wung ina {traimer or-clean napkin, and well 
drained from the water 5 then difh it in a clean fcow- 
red difh, and about the centre capers,curranis, olives, 
lemons carved and {lic’t, boil’d beet-roots carved and 
- flic’t,and difhed round alfo with good oyl and vinegar. 


A good Sallet otherways. 


Take corn-faller, rampons,Alexander-buds, pickled 
mufhrooms, and make a fallet of them, then lay the 
corn fallee through the middle of the dith from fide to 
fide, and on the other fide rampons, then Alexander- 
buds, and in the other four quarter of mufhrooms, falt, 
over all, and put good oyl and vinegar to it. ee 

“a. | ier 





“35 The Art and Myftery of Cookery; 161 


ae Other grand Sallet. ey 

_ Take the tendereft; fmalleft, and youngeft ellickfan- 
der-buds, and {mall fallet, or young lettice mingled to- 
gether, being wafthed and pickled, with fome capers. 
Pile it or lay it flat in a dith, firft lay about the centre, 
olives, capers, currans, and about thofe carved oranges 
and lemons, or ina crofS partition-ways, and falt, run 
oy] and vinegar over all: 

Otherways. : 

Boil’d parfnips in quarters laid round the dith,and in 
the mid{t fome {mall {allet,or water creffes finely wafh- 
ed and picked, on the water-crefles fome little fmall 
lettice finely picked and wathed alfo, then fome elick- 
fander-buds in halves,and fome in quarters,and between 
the quarters of the parf{nips, fome {mall lettice, fome 
water-crefles and elickfander-buds, oy] and vinegar,and 
round the difh fome flices of par{nips. 


Another grand Sallet. Big 
Take {mall fallet of all good fallet herbs, then mince 
fome white cabbidge leaves,or ftriked cole-worts,min- 
le them among the {mall fallet, or fome lilly- lowers 


lit with a pin; then firft lay fome minced cabbidge in — 


a clean fcowred difh; and the minced fallet round a- 
bout it ; then fome well wafhed and picked capers, cur- 
rans, olives, or none; then.about the reft, a round of 
boild red beets, oranges, or lemons carved.For the gar- 
nifh of the brim of the difh, boild colliflowers, carved 
lemons, beets, and capers. : | 
S oat: —— Sallet of Scurvy grafs. | 
Being finely pick’t fhort,well foak’t in clean water,and 
{wung dry,difh it round ne a fine clean difh,with ee 
an 


‘ 











and currans about it, carved lemon and orange round 
that, and eggs upon the centre not boil'd too hard, and 
parted in halves, then oy! and vinegars over all {cra- 
ping fugar, and trim the brim of the difh, ‘ 


A grand Sallet of Alexander-buds = 
Take large Alexander-buds, and boil them in fair wa- 
ter after they be cleanfed and wafhed, but firft let the 
water boil, then put them in, and being boil’d, drain 
them ona difh:bottom or in a cullenders then have 
boil’d capers and currans, and lay them inthe midft ofa 
clean {cowred difh, the buds parted in two witha fharp 
nife, and laid round about upright, or one half on one 
fide, and the other againft it on the other fide, fo alfo 
carved lemon, {crape on fugar, and ferve it with good 
oy] and wine vinegar. : | 
3 Other grand Sallet of Watercreffes . A 
Being finely picked, wafhed and laid inthe middle 
ofa clean difh with flict oranges and lemons finely 
- carved one againft the other, in partitions or round the 
difh, with fome Alexander-buds boil’d or raw, currans, 
pers, oyl, and vinegar, fugar, or none. 


' Agrand Sallet of pickled capers. “oto! 

Pickled capers and currans ba{ted and boil’d toge- 
ther, difht in the middle of a clean difh, withred beets 
boil’d and jagged, and difh’t round the capers and cur- 
rans, as alfo jagg d lemon, and ferve it with oyl and vi-. 


negare 3 iO 43 or 
To pickle Samphire, Broom-buds, Kitkeys, Crucifix > 
ip Peafe, Purjlane, or the like. Lint 

‘Take Samphire, and pick the branches from the dead. 
leaves or firaws,then lay it ina pot or barrel,&cmakea 
{trong brine of white or bay-falt,in the boiling piri it 
iO. Chea iys: 





ws ae if tae ta ae Day, 
The Art and Myftery of Cookery. = 163. 


clean; being boil'd and cold put itto the famphire,co- - 
ver itand keep it for all.the year, and when you have. 
any occafion toufe it, take and boil icin fair water,but 
firft fet the water boil before you put it in, being boi- 
led and becomegreen, let it cool, then take it out of 
the water, and put it in a-little bain or double viol with 
abroad mouth, put {trong wine vinegar to it, clofe 
itupclofe and keep it, : : 
| therways. pce 

Put famphire ina braf{s pot that will contain it, and 
‘put to it as much wine-vinegar as water, but no falt ; 
fet it-overa.charcoal-fire, cover it clofe,and boil it till 
it become-green, then put it upin a barrell with wine- 
vinegar clofe on the head, and keep it for ufe. 


be. ce Ove 
Pp esh 


.. Omedtval by ¢Le pickle, Cucumbers; ) 
Pickle them with falt, vinegar, whole pepper, dill- 

feed,fome of the ftalks cut,charnell, fair water,and fome 

ficamore-leaves, and barrel them up clofe in a barrel. 


yy ledery Packled Quinces the beft way... @ 
1 ‘Eakequinces not cored nor pared, boil them in 
fair water not too tender, and put them ina barrel, 
fill itup with their liquor, and clofe on the head. 
-»2,\Pare them and boil them with white-wine,whole 
cloves; cinamon, and flict ginger, barrel them up and 
keep-them. 5 -:- HEOE a Bois SRE: 
~ 3-4n the juyce of {weet apples, not cored; but wi- 
ped, abdiput up raw. ea es = 
o4, bn winte-wine barrel’dup raw... << os 
._5« Being pared and cored,boil them upin {weet-wort 
and fugar, keep them ina glazed pipkin clofe covered;. 
. 5. Core them and fave the cores,cut fome of the crab-. 
Guinces,and boil them after the quinces be parboil’d 8& 
sont N 2 taken 









Br eas 


164 


white- -wine. 


The Accomplifit COOK: On* 














: SE " 
£2 tr. raya, litem itch epenanernesanmsisanngel epsselamngniN i ese * 8 Nb lee wer eneest 


taken ups then boil the cores, and fore ei itlevaath> | 


quinces in quarters, the liquor being boild {train it 
thorow a ftrainer, put it ina barrrel with the « ane 


and clofe up the barrel. CORE aaa, 32 


srneaed ba: 


To pickle Lemar, pi: 3H ps0} 


<P 


CATFE PNY ¥ 
Jas aad ss pen 4 & 


Boil them in water and falt, and put i then ip with’ 


To pickle any lind of Bitch aire ESF 


Put them into a gally-pot or double gla, ‘ite as oer 
fugar as they weigh,fill them up with wine vinegar to’ 
a pint of vinegar a pound of fugar,and a‘ pound of flow- 
ers; fo keep them for fallets or boild meats in a dou- 
ble glafs covered over with a blade and Jeather., 


To pickle Capers, Coaiebioade Barberritt vel and 
white Currans. - 


Pick them and put them inthe sayee ut Sati cher- 
ries, grape-verjuyce, or other verjayeey! ‘and then bar- 


el them up. nS gil a Mam Ned pe 


To Candy Flowers for Sullets, aS: Kelsey. Giulsis: ‘Dheit. | 


gilliflowers, Rofes, Primzrofes, Borrage, Buglofs, 8cc ; 


Take weight for weight of fugar candy,or double 
refined fugar, being beaten fine, fearfed) and putin a 
filver difh an rofe-water, fet them: overaéharecoall | 
fire, and ftir them with 2 fiver {poon' till they ‘be oe | 


died, or boil them ina Candy-firrup height in! a'dith 


skiller, keep them in‘a dry place for your ufe, and ete | 


them, and difh them. 
For 


you ufe them for fallets, put a little: Wie Viepax to | 


7 


r 
i" 


. 





z SN i and Mayftery of Cookery 165 


For the compounding andcandying the forefaia pickled 
and can died Sallets, 


Though they may be ferved fimply of themfelves,and 
‘are both good and dainty, yet for better curiofity and 
the finer ordering of a table, you may thus ufe them. 
Firft, if you would fet forth a red flower that you 
know or have feen, you fhall take the pot of preferv’d 
gilliflowers, and fuiting the’colours an{werable to the 
flower,you fhall proportion it forth,and lay the fhape of 
a flower with a purilane ftalk, make the ftalk of the 
flower, and the dimenfions of the leaves and branches 
with thin flices of cucumbers, make the leaves in true 
proportion jagged or otherways, and thus you may fer 
forth fome blown fome in the bud,and {ome half blown, 
which will be very pretty and curious; if yellow, fet 
it forth with cowflip or primrofes ;. if blue take vio- 
lets or borrage; and thus of any flowers. 





N By saps 7 a | 








_ Sedtion vie 


To make all manner > of Cirbditiss. | 
either of Flefhor Fowl; as alfoall 
manner of fried Meats of F lefh,Col- 
9 lops « and Eggs, ‘with the moft exqui- 
fete way of making os hoa Frit- 


ite and t anf 20S. 


b carbonad a : Ohine of Mitton 


*Akea Chine of Mutton, Gilti it, ati broil it on . 

embers, or toaft it againft ft the fire; being finely 
broil d, bafte itand bread it with fine grated manchet, 
and ferve i it with gravy only. ° 
7 << Tp carhonado a Shoulder of Mutton. 

Take a Shoulder of Mutton, half boil it, feotch it 

and falc ic, fave the gravy, and broilit ona foft fire be- 
ing finely coloured and fitted, make fauce with butter, 
vinegar, pepper, and muftard, , 


9 To carbonado a Rack of Mtieiaied 
Cut it into fteaks,faltand broil them on the embers, 
and being finely foaked, difh them and make fauce of 
good mutton-gravy, beat up thick w itha little j juyce of 
orange, and a piece of butter. | 7 
0 





~The Art and My/ftery of Cookery. | 167 


To carbonado a Leg of Mutton. 

Cut it round crofs the bone about half an inch thick, 
then hack it with the back of aknife, {alt it, and broil 
it on the embers ona foft fire the {pace of an hour ; be- 
ing finely broil'd, ferve it with gravy fauce, and juyce 
of orange. 

Thus you may broilany hanch of venifon, and ferve 
it with gravy only. | 


To broil a chine of Veal. 

Cut it in three or four pieces,lard them (or not) with 
{mall lard,feafon them with falt and broil them ona foft 
fire with fome branches.of {age and rofemary between 
the gridiron and the chine; being broil’d, ferve it with | 
gravy, beaten butter, and juyce of lemon or orange. 


To broil a Leg of Veal 
Cut it into rowls,or round the leg in flices as thicke as 
ones finger, lard them or not,then broil them foftly on 
embers,and make fauce with beaten butter, gravy, and 
juyce of orange. 


To carbonado a Rath of Pork, 

Take a Rack of Pork, take off the skin,and cut it in- 
to fteaks, then falt it, and ftrow on fome fennil- feeds 
whole and broil it ona {oft fire,being finely broil’d,ferve 
it On wine-vinegar and pepper. 


To broil a Flank of Pork. 


- Flay it and cut it into thin flices,falt it,and broil it on 
the embers in a dripping-pan of white paper,and ferve 


it on the paper with vinegar and pepper. 
N4 To 





% broil Chines of Prk 


Broil them.as you do the rack, but bread them and 
ferve them with vinegar and pepper, or muttard and 
vinegar. } | 

Or fometimes apples in flices,boil’ din beer and bea- 
ten butter to a math. 

Or green fauce, cinamon,and fagar. 

Otherways,fage and onions minced, with vinegar and 
pepper boil'd in ftrong broth till they be tender. 

Or minced onions boil’d in vinegar and pepper. 

To broil fat Venifon. 

‘Take half a hanch, and cut the fatteft part into thick 
flices half an inch thick, falt and broil them on the 
warm embers,and beinghnely foaked,bread them, and - 
ferve them with gravy only. 

Thus you may broil.a fide of venifon, or boil a fide, — 
frefh in water and fale, then broil it and dredge it, and 
ferve it with vinegar and pepper. - | 

Broil the chine raw as you do the half hanch, bread it : 
and ferve it with gravy. — | 


‘To fry Lambs or Kids Sinead 


" Take the ftones,parboil them, then mince them {mall 
and fry them in fweet butter, firain them with fome 
cream, fome beaten cinamon, pepper, and grated cheefe 
being put to it whenitis ftrained,then fry them,and be- 
ing fried,ferve them with fugar’ and rofe-water. 
Thus may you drefs calves or lambs brains. » 


To carbonado Land or Water Fowl 
Being roafted, cut them upand fprinkle them with 
falt, then {coch and broil them and make fauce with 
yinegar and butter, or juyce of orange. ie 
i. 


eae % Sb, hee : ‘ a ' se et a 
“ough 4 or ny po ‘ A 2 ; * 
J 7 f j ‘ ae 





~The Art and Myftery of Cookery. 169 


To drefs a difh of Gollops and Ege the beft way for fervice: 
’ Take fine young and well coloured bacon of the ribs, 
the quantity of two pound,cut it into thine flices and lay 
them in.a clean difh,tofte them before the fire fine and 
crifp; then poche the eggs in a fair {crowred skillet 
white and.fine,difh them on a difh and plate,and lay on 
the colops, fome upon them, and fome round the difh. 


To broil Bacon on Paper. 
_Make the fafhion of two dripping-pans of two fheets 


of white paper, then take two pound of fine interlarded — 


bacon,pare off the top, and cut the bacon into flices as 
thin asa card,lay them on the papers, then put them on 
a gridiron,and broil them on the embers. 


To broil Brawn. 
~CutaCollar into fix or feven flices round the Col- 
lar,and lay it on a plate it the oven.being broil’d ferve 
i with juyce of orange, pepper, gravy, and beaten 
utter. ee 


| To fry Eggs. 4 
"Take fifteen eggs and beat them in adifh, then have 
interlarded bacon cut into fquare bits like dice, and fry 


them with chopped onions,and:put to them cream, nut- 


-meg,cloves,cinamon,pepper, and fweet herbs chopped 
finall,Cor no herbs nor {pice ) being fried,ferve them on 
-aclean difh, with fugar and juyce of orange. : 


| To fry an Egg as round as aBall. 
Take a broad frying pofnet,or deep frying pan, and 
three pints of clarified butter or {weet fuet,heat it as hot 
as you do for fritters ; then takea ftick and ftir it till ir 
es run 







Le Repenenen ein eet ee 


yun round like toa whirle-pit ; then break an egginro 


the middle of the whirle, and turn it round with your 


170 The Accomplifot COOK: Or, ; ove 








; 








3 


ftick till it be as hard as a foft-poached egg, and the - 
whirling round of the butter or fuet will make round — 
asaball; thentake it up with a flice, and put itina 


warm pipkin or difh, fer it a leaning againft the fire, fo 


you may do as many as you pleafe, they will keep half — 
an hour yet be foft ; you may ferve them with fried or © 


toafted collops. 
To make the beft Fritters, 


~ "Take good mutton-broth being cold,and no fat, mix. 


it with flour and eggs,fome falt, beaten nutmeg and gin- — 
ger,beat them weil together, then have apples or pip- 
pins,pare and core them, and cut them into dice-work,. 
or {quare bits, and ‘when you will fry them,put them in 
the batter, and fry them in clear clarified fuet, or clari-— 


fied butter,fry them white and fine, and fugar them. . 


Orherways. 


Take a pint of fack, a pint of ale, fome ale-yeaft or 
barm,nine eggs yolks and whites beaten very well, the — 
_ eggs firft,then all together,then put in fome ginger,falt, — 
and fine flour, Jet it ftandan hour or two, then putin © 
apples, and fry them in beef-fuet clarified, or clarified — 


butter. 


Other Eritters. 
Takea quart of flour, three pints of cold mutton 


broth, a nutmeg,a quartern of cinamon,a race of ginger, _ 


} 
: 


: 
) 


five eggs,and falt,and {train the forefaid materials; put — 


to them twenty {lic’t pippins,and fry them infix pound 
of fuet. | | 


Sometimes make the batter ofcream, eggs, cloves, — 


mace, nutmeg, faffron, barm, ale, and fale. 


Other 


fq 


‘| 


eek 





a. Lhe 


~ Other times flour, grated bread, mace, ginger, pep- 
pep, falt, barm, faffron, milk, fack, or white wine. 

~ Sometimes you may ufe marrow fteeped in musk and 
rofe-water,and pleafant pears or quinces. 


~ Orufe raifins currans,and apples cut like {quare dice, 


and as fmall, in quarters or in halves. 


r10G.¥ Fritters 12 the Italian Falhton. 

Take a pound of the beft Holland cheefe or parmifan 
grated, a pint of fine flower, and as much fine bisket 
bread muskefied beaten to powder, the yolks of four or 
five eges,fome faffron and rofewater,fugar,cloves,mace, 


and cream,make it into {tiff pafte,then make it into balls, | 


and fry them in clarified butter. Or {tamp this pafte in 
a mortar,and make the balls as big asa nutmeg or mus- 
ket buller. 


Otherways 12 the Italian Falbion. 
Take a.pound of rice and boil itin a pint of cream, 
being boil’d fomething thick,lay it abroad ina clean difh 
to cool, then ftamp it in a ftone mortar, with a pound 
of good fat cheefe grated,fome musk,and yolks of four 
or five hard eggs, fugar, and grated manchet or bisker 
bread ; then make it into balls, the pafte being ftiff, and 
you may colour them with marigold flowers ftamped, 
violets, blue bortles, carnations or pinks,and make them 
balls of two or three colours. If the pafte be too tender, 
work more bread to them and flour,fry them,and ferve 
them with {craping fugar andjuyce of orange. Garnifh 
thefe balls with ftock fritters. Be: 


ee Fritters of Spinage. 
“Dake {pinage,pick it and wafh it,then fet ona skillet of 
fair-water,and when it boileth put in the fpinage,being 
hone Maat eee ten- 


Art and Myftery of Cookery. 17 





\ 


72° 





le) 
Woke j 
- » ly Pov e-' 


e 


The. Accomplifht CO OK: 





quor 5 then mince it {mall on a fair board,put itin a difh 
and feafon it with cinamon,ginger, grated manchet, fix 


ve a 
y ey " 
Baste mee), ies. 
ee 
: sr nha Sisbsnhemarnnhe enchants nat 
rs : 
, neneninenceeene e 
q 


tender boil’d put it ina cullender to drain away the li- 








eggs with the whites and yolks, a little cream Ornone, — 
_ make the {tuff pretty thick,and put in fome boil’d cur- 


rans. Fry it by {poonfuls,and ferve it ona difh and plate 
with fugar. | | 


i 


rage, buglofs, or lattice. 


Thus alfo you may make fritters of beets, clary,bor- 


To make Stoch-Fritters or Fritters of Arms. 


—e——eeee 


Strain halfa pint of fine flower, vith as much water, — 


and make the batter no thicker, than thin cream; then. 
heat the brafs moulds in clarified butter;being hot pe 
them, dip the moulds half way in the batter. and fry 


_ them,to garnifh any bou!'d fith meats or ftewed oyfters. 


View their forms. 





Other fried Difbes of divers forms or Stock-Fritters in the 
Ttaltan Fafhion. Raa 9: 

Take a quart of fine flower, and ftrain it with fome 
almond milk, leven,white wine, fugar and faffron; fry 
it on the forefaid moulds, or dip clary on it,fage leaves, 
or branches of rofemary, then fry them in clarified 
butter. : 

Little Pafties, Balls, or Toafts fried. 


Take a boil’d or raw Pike,mince it and ftamp it with — 
fome good fat old cheefegrated,feafon them with cina- — 
| | mon, — 


noe, a = 


> 


{collops, balls, or {uns. | 
Or thus, | 
Take grated bread, cake, or bisket bread, and fat 
cheéefe grated, almond pafte, eggs, cinamon, faffron,and 
fry them: as abovefaid. , | 


Othermays Pafties to fry. - 


~ Taketwenty apples or pippins par'd, coard, and cut 


into bits like {quare dice, {tew_them in butter, and put 
to them three ounces of bisket bread,ftamp all together 


ina Meeeanortar, with fix ounces of fat cheefe grated, 
fix yolks of eggs, cinamon, fix ounces of fugar, make 
icin little Pafties, or half moons, and fry them. 
mods ovteh bo2 oO Opherways, | 

Take a quart of fine flower, wet it wich almond milk, 
fack, white-wine, rofe-water, faffron, and fugar,make 
thereof a.pafte into balls, cakes, or any cut or carved 
branches, ‘and fry them in clarified butter, and ferve 


them with'fine {craped fugar. 


5 Fo fry Pajte out of a Syringe ov Butter-fquirt. 
Take a'quart of fine Aower,& a liztle leven,diffolveit 
in Wart water,&¢ put to it the flour, with fome white 
Wwine,falt,faffron,a quarter of butter,and two ounces of 
fugar;boil'the aforefaid things ina skillet as thick as a ha: 
fty pudding,and in the boiling ftir it continually, being 
cold beat it in a mortar,fry it in clarified bucter,and run 
it into the butter through a butter-{quirt, To 


% 





The Art and Myffery of Cookery. 173. 
mon, fugar, boil’d currans, and yolks ofhard eggs, 
make this {tuff into balls,toa Sor pafties, and fry them. 


BuO 6.773! Orberways, 2 
‘Make ee pafte into little patties, ftars, half moons 


Pe: 





ool tsar hy Spent ee "eara est | 
| | ‘To maka Pancakes, 6) 2 BOS 
rete tt oy b here po rs UO Osi RET! 2rd Op Beet 
* ‘Takethree pintsof cream, a quart of flour eight 
eggs, three nutmegs, a {poonful of falt, andtwo pound 
of clarified butter ;_ the nutmegs being beaten, ftrain 
them with the cream, flour and {alt, fry them into pans 


cakes, and ferve them with fina fugar. 
* Otherways. po ee 

" Take three pints of f{pring-water, a quart of flour, 

mace, and nutmeg beaten, fix cloves, a {poonful of falr, 

and fix eggs, {train them and fry them into Pancakes. 


Or thus. a 


OLD hays Rise aca ae 

_ "Take three pints of cream,a quatt of flour, five eggs, 

falt, three fpoonfuls ofale, a race of ginger, cinamon as 
much, {train thefe materials, then try and ferve them 

with fine fugar. nto mepp gested 

To make a Tanfie the belt way. a ee i 

Take twenty eggs,and take away five whites, {train 

them with a quart of good thick {weet cream, and. put 

to it grated nutmeg, a race of ginger grated, as much — 
cinamon beaten fine,and a penny white loaf grated alfo, 

mix them all together witha little falt,then ftamp fome - 
green wheat with fome tanfie herbs, {train it into the 
cream and eggs, and ftir all together; then take a clean 
frying-pan, and a quarter of a pound of butter, melt.it, 
and put in the tanfie,and ftir it continually over the fre 


~- with a flice, ladle, or faucer, chop it, and break it as it 


thickens 


ea 








: Bh et 





The Art and Myftery of 
thickens, and being well incorporated put it out of the 
pan into a difh, and chopit very fine; then make the 
frying pan very clean, and put in fome more butter, 
melt it, and fry ic whole or in fpoonfuls 5 being finely 


fried on both fides, difhit up, and fprinkle it with rofé- _ 


vinegar, grape-verjuyce, elder-vinegar,couflip-vinegar, 
or the juyce of three or four oranges, and ftrew'on 
good {tore of fine fugar. 


| Otherways. 3 
Take a little tanfie, featherfew ,parfley, and violets 
ftamp and ftrain them with eight or ten eggs and fale, 
fry chem in fweet butter, and ferve them ona plate 
and difh with fome fugar. 


A Tanfie for Lent. 


Take tanfie and all manner of herbs as before, 
and beaten almond,ftamp them with the {pawn of pike 
or carp and ftrain them with the crumb of a fine man- 
chet, fugar, and rofe-water, and fry it in fweet butter. 


~~» Toafts of Drivers forts. soot 
Firft, 1n Butter or Oyl. 


Take a caft of fine rouls or round manchet, chip 


them, and cut them into toafts, fry them in clarified 
butter, frying oy], or fallet oyl, but before you fry 
them dip them in fair water, and being fried, ferve 
them ina clean difh piled one upon another, and {ugar 
between. 


| “— Otherways, 
~'Tofte them before the fire, and run them over with 
butter, fugar, or oy]. 
Cina- 


JOM EMT Sai 91 a a RA i a ll i i 
bean (Rt T! 


Cookers 175 





0 Ginamon Toaftse 
Cut fine thin toafts, then toaft them o 
and Jay them in ranks ina dith, put to t 


2d Oe © ee 
eS t-—s33 men 
: oie Saga’ 









. 


, 





iba gridiron; 
1em fine bea- 
ten cinamon mixed with fugar and fome claret, warm 
them over the fire, and fervethemhot. = 


Suid Sur, 76 s2amRoos 
French Toafts, 


_. Cut Erench bread, and toaft it in pretty thick toafts 
onaclean gridiron, and ferve them fteeped in clarét, 
fack, or any wine, with fugar andjuyce of orange... 


if Re 
aon Se Pad 





< 


? i tise 
- - Section 
} 
EE EE ICE SEE 2A CC GCIs, : rs P : . SS 
- - ‘ 
; Ji : : & 





Fig tL 
, mime St Not Set 
; oP hie i any . 
wet = Yn on 
ar oe _ 


es 


The Art and Myftery of Cookery. | 177 
Section VI: 
The moft Excellent Ways of making 
All forts of Puddings. 

forts of Pudding 


~ 





BRL, : A boil'd Puddjng. Be 
BE the yolks of three eggs, with rofe-water, and 
A Yhalf a pint of cream, warm it witha piece of but- 
tera big as a walnut, and when it is melted mix the 
eggs and that together; and feefon it with nutmeg, {u- 
gar, and {alt ; then put in asmuch bread as will make it 
as thick as batter, and lay on as much flour as will lie 
on a fhilling,then take a double cloth, wet it, and flour 
it, tieit faft, and put itin the pot; when itis boil’d, 
ferve it upin a difh with butter, verjuice, and fugar. 
Otherways, , ei ni, 
Take flour, fugarjnutmeg; fale, and water,mix them 
together with a {poonful of gum-dragon, being {teeped 
all night inrofe-water, {train it,.then put in fuetsand 
boil itin acloth, 


|  Tobola Pudding otberways a 
Take a pint of cream or milk; and boil it wich a ftick 
of cinamon,being boil’d let it cool,then put in fix eggs, 
take out three whites, and beat the eggs before you 
put them in the milk, sium a penny-roul very aie 


- 














4’: LAF) ane wok 
De oe ee ent ; . 

re ag eee eee hed ieeare 4 

: . wae ty ne Par eg a 
ond ane fe , 





ald a4 a 


The Acconsplifot COOK : Or, he ‘ 


and being flic’t beat all together,then put in fome fugar, 
and flour the cloth; being boil'd for fauce, put butter, 
fack, and fugar, beat them up together, and fcrape fu- 
gar on if. 2 
eee Other Pudding. | 

Sift grated bread through a cullender, and mix it with 
flour, minc't dates, currans, nutmeg, cinamon, minc’t 
fuet, new milk warm, fugar and eggs, take away fome 
of the whitesand work all together, then take half the 
pudding for one fide, and half for the other fide, and 
make it round like a loaf, then take butter and put it 
into the midft, and the other fide aloft on the top,when 
the liquor boils, tie it ina fair cloth and boil it, being 
boil’d, cut it in two, and fo ferve it in. is 


To make a Cream Pudding to be bold | 

Take a quart of cream and boil it with mace, nut- 
meg and ginger quartered, put to it eight eggs, and but 
four whites beaten, a: pound of almonds blanched, bea: 
ten,and ftrained in with the cream,a little rofe-water 
fugar,and a fpoonful of fine flower; then take a thick 
napkin, wet itand rub it with flour, and tie the pud. 
ding up in it: being boil’d make fauce for it with fack, 
fugar, and butter beat up thick together with the yolk 
ofan egg, then blanch fome almonds, flice them, and 
{tick the pudding with them very thick, and {crape fu- 
gar onit. libel 
To make a green boil'd Pudding of fweet Herbs. 
Take and {teep a penny white loafin a quart of cream 
and only eight yolks of ‘eggs, fome currans, fugar, 
cloves, beaten mace,dates,juyce of {pinage,faffron, cina- 
mon, nutmeg, {weet marjoram, tyme, favory, peniroyal 
Minced very {mall, and fome falt, boilit in beef-fuer, 
marrow,(or none.) Thefe puddings are excellent for he 
ngs 


r 








c 
vy 


PT Roe: ~~ 


h 





The Art and Myflery of Cookery. 179 
fings of roaft or boil’d Poultrey, Kid, Lamb, or’Tur- 





key, Veal; or Breafts of Muttoa. 


To make a Pudding in hate. 
_ ‘Take a pint of good Milk or Cream, put thereto a 
handful of raifins of the Sun, with as many currans, 
and a piece of butter, then grate a manchet and a nut- 
meg, and put thereto a handful of flour; when the milk 
boils, put in the bread, let it boil a quarter of an hour, 
then difh it up on beaten butter. | : 

To make a Quaking Pudding. 

Slice the crumbsof a penny mancher, and infufe it 
three or four hours ina pint of {calding hot cream,cove- 
ring it clofe, then break the bread witha {poon very 
{mall; and put to it eight eggs, and put only four whites, 
beat them together very well,and feafon it with fugar, 
rofe-water,and grated nutmeg : if you think it too ftiff, 
put in fome cold cream and beat them well together;. 
then wet the bag or napkin and flour it, put in the pud- 
ding, tie it hard, and boil it half ‘an hour, then difh it 
and put to it butter, rofe-water, and fugar, and ferve it 


Petictapigh. Vor . 
Reet re Otperipays bakes 2 Ps vied 
Scald the bread with a pint of cream as abovefaid, 
then put to it a pound of almonds blanched and beaten 
{mall with rofe-water in a {tone mortar, or walnuts,and 
-feafon it with fugar, nutmeg, falc, the yolks of ftx eggs, 
a quarter ofa pound of dates flic’t and “cut fmall a hand- 
ful of currans boil’d and fome marrow’ minced, beat 
them all together and bake ic, © 


io To make a Quaking Pudding either boil'd or baked, 


Take d pint of good thick cream,boil it with fome large 
Bigs O 2. mace 










180. é “The Accon 





‘ 


lift COOK: Or, 
mace, whole cinamon, and flic’t nutmeg, then take fix 
eggs,and but three whites, by at them well, and grate 
fome ftale manchet, the quantity of a half penny loaf, - 
put it to the eggs with a {poonful of flour, then feafon 
the cream according to your own tafte with fugar and — 
{alt ; beat all well together, then wet a cloth orbutter — 
it,and put in the pudding when the water boils; an 
hour will bake it or boil ir. . : faci 
pees therways. ee 
Takea penny white loaf,pare off the cruft, and flice © 
thecrumb, fteep it ina quart of good thick cream 
warmed, fome beaten nutmeg, fix eggs, whereof but — 
two whites, and fome falt. Sometimes you may ule” 
boil’d currans, or boil’d raifins. : ‘ 
_ If to bake, make ita little ftiffer, fometimes add faf- 
fron ; on flefh-days ufe beef-fuet, or marrow ; ( or nel-— 
ther ) for aboil’d pudding butter the wa pene firft ‘ 
nated in-water,and bind it up like a ball, an hour will 
OU EG as | ee 
To make a Shaking Pudding, | . 








os, 


Take a pint of cream and boil it with large mace, 
flic’t nutmeg, and ginger, put in a few almonds blan- 
ched and beaten with rofe-water, {train them all toge- | 
ther,then put to it flic’t ginger, grated bread, {alt and | 
fugar, flour the napkin or cloth, and put inthe pudding, | 
tie it hard, and put it in boiling water ;(.as you muft do © 
all puddings.) then ferve it up verjuyce, butter, and fu- 
Cat oy ys Hs i na ih : 
To make a Hafty-Pudding in a Bag. 

Boil a pint of thick. cream with a eucnfal of flour, 
feafon ic with nutmeg, fugar, and falt, wet.the cloth 
and flour it, then pour in the cream being hot into the © 
cloth, and.wwhen it is boil’d butter it as a hafty. pudding. 
_AIfitbe well made, it will be as good as a.Cuftard.. = 

ty ot | Sia hates! 





ee 





‘The Art and Myftery of Cookery. 181 


To make a Hafty-Pudding otherways. 
_ Grate a two penny manchet, and mingle it with 2 
uarter of a pint of flour nutmeg, and {al3, a quarter of . 
ugar, and halfa pound of butter; then fet ita boiling © 
on the fire ina clean fcowred skillet,a quart, or three 
pints of good thick cream, and whenit boils put in the 
forefaid materials, ftir them continual, and being half 
boil’d, put in fix yolks of eggs, ftir them together, and 
when it is boil’d, ferve it in a clean {cowred difh, and 
{tick it with fome preferved orange-peel thin fliced,run 
it over with beaten butter, and {craping fugar. 


To make an Almond Pudding. 

~ Blanch and beat a pound of almonds, {train them 
with a quart of cream,a grated,penny manchet fearfed, 
four eggs, fome fugar nutmeg grated, fome dates,& falt; 
boil itjand ferve it in a difh with beaten butter,ftick ir 
with fome muskedines,or wafers, and {craping {ugar. 


Bak. sal 30 Otherways. : 
"Take a pound of almond-pafte, fome grated bisket- 
bread;cream,rofe-water,yolks of eggs, beaten cinamon, 
ginger, nutmeg,fome boild currans,piftaches,and musk, 
boil it ina napkin, and-ferve it as the former. 


To make an Almond Pudding in Guts. 


Take a pound of blanched almonds, beat them very 
frnall, with rofewater, and a little good new milk or 
cream with two or three blades of mace,and fome fliced 
nutmegs; when it is boil’d take the {pice clean from 
it, then grate a penny loaf and fearfeit through a 
cullender,put it into the cream, and let it {tand till: ic be 
pretty cool,then put in the almonds, five or fixyolks of 
poe : O 3 €28% 


» rd ‘! - bil a iy . 
Ae CERO Tee. ROE RN Ny A ne 7S ae i 
eR ee CR A eit oon ine ce EO gy Ao. hee 2 Nps oan eat 
kent Ie a < a 4 OF im 
‘ 





eggs, falt, fee and Att fire “ofa marrow or + bese uc 
3 2s minced,and fill the guts, a | 


To make a Rice Pudding to hake ie a 
Boil the race tender in milk,then feafon it with nut. 

meg, mace, rofe-water fugar, yolks of eggs, with half 

the whites,fome erated bread,and marrow minced with 7 
amber-greele, and bake it in a buttered. difh, , 


To make Rice Puddings inguts, 

Boil half a pound of rice with three pints of it and: 
a littlebeaten mace, boil it until the rice-be dry,but ne-; 
ver ftir it, if you do, you mutt ftir it continually, or elfe | 
it will burn,pour your rice intoa cullender ‘or ftrainer, — 
epee the moifture may runclean from it,' then put: toit — 
fix eggs, (put away the whites of three)halfa. pound of 
fagar, a quarter ofa pint ofrofe-water, japound of cur- 
rans, anda, pound of beef fuet fhred {malls pean: onit: swith 
nutmeg, cinamon, and fale, then dry He Fins guts . of 
a hog, N€€p,OF beefer,and being, finely cleanfed for the - 
purpofe,fteep and fill them,cut the guts a foot merege 
fill them three quarters full,tie both ends together, and 
put them in-boiling water, a quarter of 4 an. ns howe, will 
boil them, _ Osea ean | 
| Othermays. : ‘yt Hod | 
_ Boil the rice e firft in water, then in milk, after rath 1 
falt, in cream ; then take fixeggs, grated. bread, good 
ftore of marrow minced {mall,fome nutmeg,fugar, and 
falt ; fill the guts and put them. into a Pipl, end boil 
them i in milk and rofe- water. 


— ee 


Otherways a iva 

Steep it in fair water all night,then boil itin new milk, | 
and drain out themilk through a cullender, then mae | 
good — 










; aM pest iy wich 
ome ete ; { Sea J 


‘The Art and Mayftery of Cooke 
good quantity of beef-fuet not too fmall, and put it into : 
the rice in fome bow] or tray, with currans being firft 
boil'd, yolks of eggs, nutmeg, cinamon, fugar, and bar- 
berries, mingle all together; then wath the fecond guts, 
fillthem,and boilthem. = eo 
To make a Ginamon Pudding, | 

‘Take and fteepa penny whtte loaf in a quart of cream, 
fix yolks of eggs, and but two whites, dates, halfan 
ounce of beaten cinamon,and fome almond pafte:Some- 
times add rofe-water, falt, and boil'd currans, either 
bake or boil it for ftuffings. | 


To make a Haggas Pudding. 

Take a calves chaldron being well icowred or boi- 
led, mince it being cold,very fine and {mall, then take 
four or five eggs, and leave out half the whites, thick 
cream, grated bread, fugar, falt, currans, rofe-water, 
fome beef-fuet or marrow, Cand if you will ) fweet 
marjoram, time, parfley, and mix all together’; then 
having a {heeps maw ready drefled, put-it inand_ boil 
it a little. ae foe 

Hila ly Orherways. 5 
* Take good ftore of parfley, tyme, favory; four or 
five onions,and {weet marjoram,chop them with fome 
whole oatmeal, then add to them pepper, and falt, and 
boil them in a napkin, being boil'd tender, butter it,and 
ferve it on fippets. | . 


To make a Ghiveridge Pudding. 
_ Lay the fatteft of a hog in fair water and falt to 
fcowr them, then take the longeft and fatteft gut, and 
ftuff ic with nutmeg; fugar, ginger, pepper, and flic’t - 
dates, cut them and ferve cba to the table. 
4 A To 







ry 183 








The Accomplifht COOK: Or, ®t 
a2 5 2 , ae — rp ar: _ — ee a 
? Bet ry th ; 


’ 








To make Leveridge Puddings. sit 

Boil a hogs liver, and let it be thorowly cold, then — 
grate and fift it through a cullender, put new milk toit — 
and the fleck of a hog minced {mall put into the liver, — 
and fome grated bread, divide the meat in two parts, — 
then take ftore of herbs, mince them fine, and put the 
herbs into one part with nutmeg,mace,pepper,annifeed, 
rofewater,cream, and eggs, fill chem up and boil them — 
To the other part or fort put barberries,flic’t datesjcur- 


‘ : he y 


rans, cream, and eggs. 


Other Leveridge Puddings. 


Boil a hogs liver very dry,and when it is cold grate it - 
andtake as much grated manchet as liver, fift them 
through a cullender,and feafon them wjth cloves, mace, 
and cinamon,as much of all the other fpices,half'a pound - 
of fugar,a pound and halfof currans, half-a pint of rofe- 
-water ,three pound of beef fuet minced {mall,eight eggs 
and but: four whites, <-' -. . ea 


VA Swan or Goofe Budding. — 

Strain the {wan or goofe blood,and fteep with it oat- 
meal or grated bread in milk or cream, -with nutmeg, 
pepper,f{weet herbs minced,fuet,rofe-water, minced le- 
| a ti very {mall and.a {mall quantity of coriander- 












' This for a Pudding in a fwanor goofes neck. — 
To take a Farfed Pudding. BSS) 

Mince a leg of mutton with {weet herbs,grated bread, 
minced dates, currans, ‘raifins of the fun, a lictle oran-. 
gado or preferved lemon fliced thin, a few coriander- 
ieeds, nutmeg, pepper, and ginger, mingle all together 
with fomecream, and raw eggs, and work it together) 
ee j 7 Pe + -§ [tke -# 


5e ge 





: ba ; fia eink. Secu Beith) Be RES a OEE GRE ah 
tae Wats . ody SG es ween > he ei ? MS aed i or ake a P rey se i 7 
rs. . he gl tA eS Fy NES AY cs x (aot eT Ae a a 
i) EAE SS 6) SR SNE ne OY OER OE Oi A SE I PRES ES PIR He Lot 1. a in f ‘ 
ara ap ; ji eC Sy aRNNES ED ti ame ere A 


eet Tr TE PE, 
like a pafty, then wrap the meat ina caul of mutton or 
veal, and {o you may either boil or bake them. ‘If you 
bake them,indorfe them with yolks of eggs,rofe-water, 
ann fugar, and ftick them withlittle {prigs of rofemary 
andcinamon, | gen: 


To make a Pudding of Veal. 

Minceraw veal very fine,and mingle it with lard cut 
into the form of dice,then mince fome fweet marjoram, 
penniroyal,camomile, winter-favory, nutmeg, ginger, 
pepper, falt,work all together with good {tore of beaten 
cinamon, fugar,barberries, fliced figs,blanched almonds, 
halfa pound of beef-{uret finely minced,put thefe into the 
suts of a fat mutton or hog well cleanfed,and cut an inch 
and a half long, fet them a boiling in a pipkin of claret 
wine with large mace ; being almoft boil’d, have fome 
boil’d grapes in {mall bunches, and barberries in knots, 
then difh them on French bread being ‘{calded with 
the broth of fome good mutton gravy,and lay themon 
garnifh of flict lemons. ear : 


To make a Pudding of Wine in guts. 
‘Slice the crumbs, of two manchets, and takehalfa 
pint of wine,and fome fugar,the wine mutt be {calded ; 
then take eight eggs, and beat them with rofe-water, 
put to them fliced dates, marrow, and nutmeg, mix all] 
together, and fill che guts to boil. . 


Bread Puddings in guts. 


Take cream and boil it with mace, and mix beaten — 


almonds with rofe-water, then take cream, eggs, nut- 
meg, currans, falt, andmarrow, mix them with as 
much bread as you thinkfit, and fill the guts | 


To 


He The Art a Myftery of Cookery. de, 135 





A ix 2 
PE SA PEE Lc BE I ee 
3 = 75 3 ree Dart ao 






3 To make an Italian Pudding = = 
Takea fine manchet and cut icin fquare pieces like’ 

A: dice, then put to it halfa pound of beef-fuet minced’ 
final, raifins of the fin, cloves, mace, minced dates, fa-" 
| sar, marrow, rofe-water, eggs, and cream, mingle 
all thefe together, put them into a buttered, dith in lefs © 

than. anhour itwill be baked, and when you ferve ir, 





{crapefugar on it. | ae 
Other Pudding inthe Italian Falhion with blood of 
BIG Beaft or Fah oa 
- Take half a pound of grated cheefe; a penny man- 
chet grated, fweet herbs chopped very {mall, cinamon, © 
pepper, falr, nutmeg, cloves, mace, four eggs, fugar, — 
and currans, bake it in a dith or'pie, or boil it in a nap- © 
kin, -and bind it up ina ball, being boil’d ferve it with © 
beaten butter, fugar, and beaten cinamon. 4 
ora To make a French Pudding. . 9 | 
Take halfa pound of raifins“of the fun, a penny — 
white loaf pared and cut into dice-work, halfa pound — 
js of beef-fuet finely minced, three ounces of fugar, eight © 
{ flic’t dates, a grain of musk,twelve or fixteen lumps of 
3 marrow, falt, halfa pint of cream, three bee Bence : 
-  withit, and poured on the pudding, cloves, mace, nut- — 
meg, falt, and a pome- water, or a pippin or two pared, — 
flic’t, and put in the bottom of the difh before you — 
bake the pudding. | : f 
To make a French Barley Pudding. . 
Boil the barley, & put to one quart of barley, a man- ~ 
chet grated,then beat a pound of almonds, éftrain them 
with cream,then take eight eggs, & but four whites, && 
beat them with rofe-water,feafon itwith nutmeg, pie 
| alt 





e Art and Myftery of Co 


¢ 





lA 





faltjand marrow,or beef-{uet cut fmall,mingle all toge- | 
ther, then fill the guts and boil them, 


i To make an excellent Pudding. 

- Take crumbs of white-bread,as much fine flour, the 
yolks of four eggs, but one white, and as much good 
cream as will temper it as thick as you would make 
pancake batter, then butter the dith,bake it,and {crape 
fugar on it being baked. 


©! * Puddings of Swines Lights. 

“Parboil the lights,mince them very fmall with fuer, = 
and ‘mix them with grated bread,cream, curans, eggs, ‘. 
nutmeg, falt, and rofe-water, and fill the guts. 

is To make an Oatmeal Padding, 
Oct. sano lr | | a: LB 


‘ a 
$7 : mo 
ee ae ae) ne 

Ci APs ate dew wee 





Pick a-quart of whole oatmeal, being finly picked 
and cleanfed; fteep it’ in warm milk: all night, next 
morning drain it,and boil it in three pints of cream ; be- 
ing boil’d and cold put to it fix yolks of eggs and but 
three whites,cloves,mace, {affron, falt,dates ic't,and fu- 
gar, boil itin a napkin,and boil it as the bread-pudding, 
ferve it with beaten butter, arid ftick it with flict 
dates,and fcrape fugar ; or you may bake thefe forefaid 
materialsin dith, pye, ec. 

sometimes add to this pudding raifins of the fun, and 
all manner of {weet herbs, chopped fmall, being feafon- 


ed as before. 


5 i Di : 
’ r 





. Other 





' Other Oatmeal Pudding.” Bp ii nord very 
‘Take great oatmel, pick it and fcalei itin cream be- - 
ing firft put in a difh.or bafon, feafon it with hnutm id | 
cinamon,ginger,pepper, and currrans, bake 1 itina di 
or boil it inanapkin, being baked or boiled, ferve: it ; 
with beaten butter,and {craping fugar. BeOS ie i 


Otherways. ~~ Atego B36 

Seafon it with cloves, nace eae let a of | 
eggs, and but five that have whites, and fome creamto — 
_ fteep thegroats,in, boil it in anaDkin, or Dae ‘itin a 
difh or pye. © 3 alist pansuty 

To make Oatmeal Pudding-pies. 

Steep oatmeal in warm milk three or four hours,then | 
{train fome blood into it of flefh or fifth, mix it with ~ 
cream, and add toit fuet ‘minced {mall, 
fweet herbs chopped fine,as tyme, par-— 
fley,{pinage,fuccory, endive, ftrawber- 
ry leaves, violet leaves, pepper, cloves” 
_mace,fat beef-fuet; and: four, €ggs’s mins: 
ea all together and {0 bake them) bine tiara ae more) 


To make Aan Oatmeal Padding boil ds 








Take the biggett oatmeal mince whey t Rake vith! 
beft and mix with it, feafon-it with pepper and fale,tye. 
it ftraic ina bag,and when it is boild,butter icand ferve. 
it Up. vy ¢, 


Oatmeal Pudding otberwi f of fib or flee bling | 
Take a quart of whole oatmeal, fteep it in warm milk 
over night,& then drain the groats from it,boil them in 
* a 





i 
ie 
7 
H 
§ 
‘ 









ATs i 
2 quart or three pints of good cream ; then the oatmeal 
being boil’d and cold, have tyme, penniroyal, parfley, 
{pinage, {avory, endive, marjoram, forrel, fuccory,and 
ftrawberry leaves, of each a little quantity, chop them 
fine, and put them to the oatmeal, with fome fennil- 
feed, pepper, cloves, mace, and falt, boil it-in a napkin, 
or bake it in adifh, pie, or guts. | 


Sometimes of the former pudding ‘you may leave . 


out fome of the herbs, and add thefe, penniroyal, favo- 
vory, leeks, a good big onion, fage, ginger, nutmeg, pep- 
per,falt,either for fith or flefh days,with butter or beef 
fuet, boil’d or baked in a difh, napkin; or pie. 


- To make a baked Pudding, 


Take a pint of cream, warmit, and put to it eiglit 
dates minced, four eggs, marrow, rofe-water, nutmegs 
raced and beaten, mace and falt, butter the dith, and 
put itins; andif you pleafe, lay puff pafte on it; and 
{crape fugar on it and in it. 


To make abaked Pudding otherways. 

Take a pint and a half of cream, and a pound of but 
ter; fet the fameon fire till the butter be melted, then 
take three or four eggs, feafon it with nutmeg, rofe- 
water, fugar, and falt, make it asthinas pankake bat- 
ter, butter the difh, and bafte it with a garnifh of pafte 
about it. | 

Otherways, | 


Take a penny loaf, pare it, fliceit, and putit into a 


fart of cream with a little rofe-water, break it very 
mall, then take four ounces of almon-pafte, and 
put ineight eggs beaten, the marrow of three or four 
Marrow bones, three or four pippins flic’t thin,or what 
: : | way 


The Art and Myffery of Cookery. 189 


Ea 
f 






























hel? A 2 aa 
oh ee 






aie" cies mal in Bo get Rsiitns GE 
~The Accomplifit COOK: OF, 


‘way youpleafe; mingle thefe together wirh a little 
ambergreefe, and butter, thendifh andbakeit. 


Otherways,  * >. 4 

Take a quart of cream, put thereto a pound of beef= 
fuet minced {mall, put it into the cream, and feafon it 
with nutmeg, cinamon, and rofe-water, put to it eight: 
eggs, and but four whites, and two grated manchets 5 
mingle them well together, and put them in a butter'd 
ae bake it, and being baked, fcrape on fugar, and 

erve it. ; 


To make black Puddings. ate e 

Take half the oatmeal, pickit, and take the blood’ 
while it is warm from the hog, {train it and put it in’ 
the oatmeal as foon as you-can, let it ftand all night $ 
then take the other part of the oatmeal, pick it alfo, 
and boil it in milk tillit be tender,and all the milk con- 
fumed,then’put it to the blood and ftir it well together, 
put in good ftore of beef or hog fuet, and feafon it with 
good pudding herbs, fale, pepper, and fennil-feed, fill 
not the guts too full, and boil them. q 


To make black. Puddings otherways: 


Take the blood of the hog while itis warm, put in 
fome falt,and when it is thorough cold put in the groats. 
or oatmeal well picked; let it ftand foaking all night, 
then put in the herbs, which muft be rofemary, tyme; 
penniroyal,favory,and fennel,make the blood foft with” 
putting in fome good cream until the blood look pales 
then beat four or five eggs, whites and all, and feafon it” 
with cloves, mace, pepper, fennil-feed, and put good 
ftore ofhogs fat or beef-fuet to the ftuff, cut not the” 
fat too {mal!, : To é 





herr b ie 
iad gu prec yatta wae 4 


s The Art and Myftery of Cookery. 19t 


er: ME ete i 
To make black Puddings an'excellent way. 


After the hogs Umbles are tender boil’d,take fome 
of the lights with the heart,and all the flefh about them, 
picking from them all the finewy skins, then chop the 
meat as {mall as you can, and put to ita little of the li- 
ver very finely fearfed, fome grated nutmeg, four or 
five yolks of eggs, a pint of very good cream, two or 
three {poonfuls of fack, fugar, cloves, mace, nutmeg, ci- 
namon, caraway-feed, a little rofe-water, good ftore 
of hogs fat, and fome falt: roul it in rouls two hours 
before you go to fill them inthe guts, and lay the guts 
in fteepin rofe-water till you fill them. 





Se@ion 






: es ‘ 
Sh A 


Weuis et Gat aes Ale. ee) iy ee 4 Ree eat ee eee, 
aoe SS Seer ‘ aw re: gate Ma 2's lg 
vr % : 5 ee : Es 
> Accomplifht COOK: Of, 
+ i ‘ BR @ 
e Accomplifht COOK: Or; 
" + t Say ' , *e MB 4 ~ ? es Sh af 
e's . ad 





192 








—Se@ion VIL 


The rareft Ways of making all man: 
ner of Sonces and Felliess 


#2 yout or he 
eee: wets hake 2 








| AS To fouce a Brawy, it 10, 
per a fat brawn of two or three years growth, atid 
bone the fides,cut off the head clofe to the ears,and 
cut five collars of a fide,bone the hinder leg, or elfe five 
collars will not be deep enough, cut the collars an inch 
deeper in the belly,then on the back; for when the col- 
lars come to boiling,they will fhrink more in the belly 
than in the back,make the collars very even when you 
bind them up, not big at one end, & little at the other, 
but fill them equally, and lay them again ina foaking in 
fair water 3 before you bind them up, let them be well 
-_ watered the {pace of two days, and twicea day foak 8 
-{crape them in warm water,then caft them in cold fair 
water, before you roul them up incollors, put them in- 
to white clouts, or fow them up with white tape: 
Or bonehim whole, &cut him crofs the flitches,make 
but four or five collars in all, & boil them in cloths,or 
bind-them up with whitetape;then have your boiler rea- 
, dy, make it boil, and put in your collars of the biggeft 
* bulk firft,a quarrer of an hour before the other leffor ; 
boil them at the firft putting in the {pace of an hour with 
a quick fire,& keep the botler continually fl’dup with 
. warm 













vat ella a a il ula ol 
‘ pe = y Sen perY va ® a 
is ee a . ea > 
> ‘: i? my me te 3 i) 
tal R a a a ten tt ute : 


Art and Myftery of Cookery. 


Seats 
ch A ieee 





ear 
The J 93 
warm clean liquor,fcum off the fat clean ftill as it rifech3 
after an hour let it boil leifurely,and keep it {till filled up — 
to the brim 3 being fine and tender boil'd,that you may 
puta ftraw thorow it,draw your fire,and let your brawn 
reft till the next morning. Then being between hotand 
cold,take it into molds of deep hoops,bind them about 
with packthred,and being cold, take them out and put 
them into fouce drink made of boil’d oatmel ground or 
beaten, and bran boil’d in fair water ; being cold,ftrain 
it thorow a cullender into the tub or earthen pot, put 
falt to it,@nd clofe up the veffel clofe from the air. 

Or you may make other foufe-drink of whey and 
falt beaten together, it will make your brawn look 
more white and better. | 


7  Tomake Pig Brawn | 
Takea white or red Pig,for a {potted is not fo hand- 
fome,take a good large fat one, and being fcalded and 
drawn bone it whole, but firft cut off the head and the 
hinder quarters,(and leave the bone in the hinder quar- 
ters)the reft being boned cut it into 2 collars overwart 
both the fides; or bone the wole Pig but only the head: 
then wafh them in divers-waters,and let it foak in clean 
water two hours,the bloud being well foaked out,take 
them and dry the collars ina clean cloth,and feafon them 
in the infide with minced lemon-peel and falt,roul them 
np,c put them into fine clean clouts,but firft make your 
collars very equa! at both ends,round & even,bind them 
ap at the ends and middle hard & clofe with packthred; 
then let your Pan boil, and putin the collars, boil 
them with water and falt, and keep it filled up with 
warm water as you dothe brawn, {cum off the fat 
very clean, and being tender boil’d put them in a hoop 
as deep as the collar, bind ic and frame it even, 
| P being 


ee * 
ee 
1 

wie 69 






















194 ~— The Accomplifht COOK: Or, 


being cold put it into your fouce drink made of whey 
and falt,or oatmeal boil’'d and ftrained, then put them 
ue pipkin or little barrel, and ftop them clofe from 
 theair. ome . 
When you ferve it, difh it ona difh and plate, the 
two collars, two quarters and head, or make but two 
collars of the whole Pig. Pe 
| To garni(b Brawn or Pig Brawn, : 
~ Leach your brawn,and difh it ona plate ina fair clean 
difh, then pu a rofemary branch on the topipeing firft 
dipped inthe white of an egg well beaten to froth, or 
wet in water and pois with flour,or a fprig of rofe- 
mary gilt with gold ; the brawn {potted alfo with gold 
and filver leaves,or let your fprig be of a ftreight {prig 
of yew tree, or a ftreight furz bufh, and put about the 
brawn ftuck round with bay-leaves three ranks round, 
_ and {potted with red and yellow jelly about the difh 
fides,alfo the fame jelly and fome of the brawn leached, 
jagged, or cut with tin moulds, and carved lemons, o- 
ranges and barberries,bay-leaves gilt, red beets,pickled 
© barberries, pickled goofeberries, or pickled grapes.. 
To fouce a Pig. } 
Take a pig being {calded,cut off the head,and part it 
down the back,draw it and boneit,then the fides being 
well cleanfed from the blood,and foaked in feveral clean 
waters,take the pig and dry the fides,feafon them with 
nutmeg, ginger,and falc, roul chem and bind them up in. 
cleanclouts as the pig brawn aforefaid, then haveas 
much water as will cover it in a boiling pan two inches 
over and two bottles of white-wine over and above 
firft let the water boil,then put in the collars with fale, 
mace,flic’t ginger,parfley-roots and fennil-roots {craped. 
and picked;being half boiled put in two quarts of white- 
wine, 








a The Art and Myftery of Cookery. | 195 


witie,and when it is boil’d quite, put in flices of lemon 
toit, and the whole peel of a lemon. | 


Otherways in Gollars; 


Seafon the fides with beaten nutmeg,falt, and ginger; 
or boil the fides whole or not bone them ; boil alfo a 
piece or bréaft of veal with them, being well joynted 
and foaked two hours in fair water,boil it in half wine 
and half water, mace; flic’t ginger, parfley, and fennil- 
roots, being boil’d leave it in this fouce, and put fome 
flic’t lemon to it, withthe whole pieces: when it is 
cold ferve it with yellow,red, and white jelly, barber; 
ries, flic’t lemon, and lemon-peel. q 

Or youmay make but one collar of both the fides to 
the hitider quarters, or bone the two fides, and make 
but two collars of all, and fave the head only whole,or 
fouce.a pig in quarters or halves, or make of a good 
large fat pig but one collar only, and the head whole. 

Or fouce it with two quaris of white wine to a gallon* 
of water, putin your wine when your pig is almoft 
boil’d,and put to it four maces, a few cloves, two races: 
of flic’r ginger; falt; a few bay-leaves, whole pepper, 
fome flices of lemon, and lemon-peel; before you boil 
your pig, feafon the fides or collars with nutmeg, fale 
cloves; and mace. : 


To fouce a Pig otberways. 
-Scald it and cut it in four quarters, bone it, and let it 
ly in water a day anda Bip ies roul it up(like brawn) 
with {age leaves,lard in thin flices,8 fome grated bread 
mix’e with the juyce of orange, beaten nutmeg, mace, 
and falt: roul ic up in the quarters of the pig very hard. 
and binde it up with tape, then boil it with fair water, 
~white-wine, large mace,flict ginger,a little lemon-peel, 
| if 








P PI 





196 The Accomplifot COOK: 








a faggot of fweet herbs, and falt ; being boil'd put it in- 
an earthen pot to cool in the liquor, and fouce there 
two days,then difh it out on plates,or ferve it in collars 


with muftard and. fugar. 


: Otherways, ne Rie 
Seafon the fides with cloves,mace, and falt, then roul 
~ 1t in collars or fides with the bones init; then take two 
or 3 gallons of water,a pottle of white-wine,and when 
the liquor boils put in the pig, with mace, cloves, flic’t 
inger, falt, bay-leaves, and whole pepper ; being half 
oil’d, put in the wine, cc. | ta 


Otherways. eee 
Seafon the collars with chopped fage, beaten nutmeg, 
pepper, and fale. AS 


To fouce or jellya Pig inthe Spanith fafbiow 
-« Take apig being fcalded,boned,and chined down the 
back, then foak the collars clean from the blood the 
{pace of two hours,dry them ina clean cloth, and feafon 
the fides with pepper,falt, and minced fage ; then have 
two dryed neats-tongues that are boil’d tender and cold, 
that they look fine and red, pare them and flice them’ 
from end to end the thicknefs of a half crown pete 
them on the infide of the feafoned pig, one half of the 
tongue for one fide, and the other for the other fides 
then make twocollars and bind them up in fine white 
clouts,boil them as you do the fouft pigs with wine,wa- 
tery. falt,flic’t ginger and mace,keep it dry, or in fouce 
drink of the pig brawn. | ; 
If dry-ferve it in flices as thick asa trencher cut round’ 
the collar or flices in jelly, and make jelly of the liquor 
wherein it was boil’d,adding to it juyce ot lemon, ifing- 
7 ! , glais, 

: f 


ee eS 


f rt a 
Ee enieat clarified with eggs,and run it through 
the bag. r 





i : 
et : 
‘ 





Mayftery of Cookery of 97 


How to divide a Pig into Collars divers ways, either for 

>. Pig Brawn, or fouft Pig. 2 
~ 1. Cuta large fat Bore-pig into one collar only,bone 
it whole, and not chine it, the head only ‘cut off. 

2. Take out the hinder-quarters and buttocks with 
the bones in them, bone all the reft whole; only the 
head cut off. ee 

3. Take off the hinder.quarters and make two collars, 
bone all the reft,only cut off the head & leave it whole. 

. Cut off the head, and chine it through the back, 
ad collar both fides at length from end to end. 
_ 3. Chine it as before with thebones in, and fouce it 
in quarters. 


To fouce a Capon. 


Take a good bodied Capon, young, fat, and finely 

ulled, drawn and truffed, lay it in foak two or three 

ours witha knuckle of veal well joynted, and after 
fet them a boiling ina fine deep brafs-pan,kettle,or large 
pipkin, ina gallon of fair water; when it boils, {cum it, 
and put in four or five blades of mace, two or three ra- 
ces of ginger flic’t, four fennil-roots, and four parfley- 
roots, {craped and picked, and falt. The Capon being 
fine and tender boild take it up, and put ict in other 
warm liquor or broth, then put to your fouced broth 
a quart of white-wine, and boil it toa jelly ; chentake 
it off, and put it into an earthen pan or large pipkin, put 
your capon to it, with two or three flic’t lemons, and 
cover it clofe, ferve it at your pleafure, and garnifh it 
ica flices and pieces of lemon, barberries,roots, mace, 
nutmeg, and fome of the jelly. 
, ae P 3 Some 


~-Z 






Dek gene ee) ot a eee ee _ | aa 
OR ae ee Sena be ins sl . aN Pe Se. Eee oe, 
+ ae Ne EY aE See pias Ty < 
e) Dee a igh ee ae ley 


198 The Accomplifht COOK: Or, 
‘Some put to this fouc’t capon,whole pepper, & a fag- 
| Pe ‘ fweet herbs, but that maketh the broth Hoe 
Epica. mee : 

In that manner you may fouce any Land Fowl. 
To fouce a Breaft of Veal, Side of Lamb, or any Foynt of 
utton, Kid, Fawn, or Venifon = = 
Bonea breaft of veal & foak it well from the blood, 
then wipe it dry, and feafon the fide of the breaft with 
beaten nutmeg, ginger,fome fweet herbs minced fmall, 
whole coriander-feed, minced lemon-peel,and falt, and 
lay fome broad flices of fweet lard over the feafoning, 
then roul it intoa collar, and bind it up in a white clean 
cloth, put it into boiling liquor, {cum it well, and then 
put in flic’t ginger, flic’t nutmeg, falt,fennil, and parfley- 
roots, being almoift boild,put in a quart of white- wine, 
and when it is quite boild take it off,and put in flices of 
* lemon , the peel of two lemons whole, anda douzen 
bay leaves, boil it clofe covered to make the veal 
Jook white. . | * “eh 
Thus you may do a breaft of mutton, either roul’d,or 
with the bones in, and feafon them with nutmeg, pep- 
per & falt,roul them,& bake them in a pot with wine 
and water,anySea orLand fowl,being ftuffed or farfed, 
and filled up with butter afterwards, and ferved dry, 
or lard the Fowls, bone and roul them. | eer 
To fouce a Leg of Veal. (Oa 
‘Take a leg of veal, bone it anid lard it, but firft feafon 
the lard with pepper, cloves,& mace, lard it with great 
lard as big as your little finger, feafon the veal alfo with 
the fame feafoning&{fome fale with itslar dit very thick 
then have all manner of {weet herbs minc’t and ftrew’d 
on it, roul it like a collar of brawn, and boil it or ftew 
jtin the oven ina pipkin, with water, falt, and white- 
wine, ferveitin a collar cold,whole or in flices,or put 
a ee sas ec : Bi 








bY 
. & 
» a a 





Fit ond Miyioy of Cookery. 199 


away the liquor, and fillit up with butter, or bake it 
with butter ina roul, jelly it, and mix fomeof the 
broth with almond milk,and jellies in flices of two col- 
lars, when you ferve it. 

: ~— Otherways. - Sha at 
_ Stuff or farfe a leg of veal; with {weet herbs minc’t, 
beef-{uet, pepper, nutmeg, and fale, collar it, and boil 
or bake it; being cold,either ferve it dry in a collar, or 
in flices, or in a whole collar with gallendines of di- 
vers forts,or in thin flices with oy] and vinegar. : 
Thus you may drefs any meat, venifon, or Fowls. 


To fouce Bullocks Cheeks, a Flank, Brisket, or 
Rand of Beef, 8c. 


Take a bullocks cheek or flank of beef and lay it in 
peter falc four days, then roul it as even as you can, 
that the collar be not bigger in one place than in another 
boil it in water and falt,or among({t other beef, boil it 
very tender in acloth as you do brawn, and being ten- 
der boil’d take it up, and put ic into a hoop to fathion 
it upright and round, then keep it dry, and take it out 
ef the clout, and ferve it whole with muttard and fu- 
gar,or fome gallendines, If lean, lard it with groat Lard. 


To collar a Surloin, Flank, Brisket, Rand, or Fave- 
Rib of Beef. 


Take the flank of beef,take out the finewy & moft of 
the fat,put it in pickle with as much water as will cover 
it, and put a handful of peter-falt to it,lecic Reep three 
days and not fift ir,then take it out and hang it a drain- 
ing the air,wipe it dry,then have a good handful of red 
fage,fome tops of rofemary, favory,marjoram,& tyme, 
but twice asmuch Hage them very {mall,then take 
3 op eth a 





may roul up handfomely ina collar; then take your 
feafoning of herbs and {pices,and ftrow it all over, ‘ctl 
it up clofe, and bind it faft with packthred, put it into 
an earthen pipkin or pot, and put a pint of claret wine 
to it,an onion and two or three cloves of garlick,clofe 
it up with a piece of courfe pafte, and bake it ina ba- 
kers oven, it will ask fix hours foaking. | : 


Ss 


; en ae 
To fouce a Gollar of Vealin the fame manner, or Vent- 
. : fon, Pork, or Matton. ae 
Take out the bones, and put them in fteep in the pic- 
le with peter-falt, as was aforefaid, fteep them three’ 
days, and hang them in the air one day, lard them (or 
uot lard them ) with good big lard, and feafon the lard 
with nutmeg, pepper, and herbs, as is aforefaid in the 
collar of beef, {trow it over with the herbs, and {pices, 
ing mingled together, and roul up the collar, bind it 
faft, and bake it tender ina pot, being ftopped clofe, 
and keepit for your ufe to ferve either in {flices or in 
in the whole collar, garnith it with bays and rofemary, 


To make a Felly for any kind of fouct Meats, Difhes, or 
other Works of that nature. | 
Take fix pair ofcalves feet, fcald them and-take a- 
way the fat betwixt the claws, & alfo the long fhank- 
bones, lay them in foak in fair water 3 or 4 hours,and © 
boil them in two gallons of fair {pring-water, to three” 
quarts of ftock; being boild ftrain it through a ftrainer, — 
& when the broth is cold, take it from the grounds,& — 
divide it into threé pipkins for three feveral colours, to: 
Pi. ‘a Se 


) 4 


—— a a 


The Art and Myftery of Cookery. 205 
every pipkin a quart of white-wine, and put faffron in 
‘one, cutchenele in another, and puta race of ginger,two 
blades of mace, and a nutmeg to each pipkin, andcina- — 
mon to two of the pipkins, the {pices being firft flic’t, . 
then fet your pipkins on the fire, and melt the jelly; 
then havea poundand a half of fugar for each pipkin : 
but firft take your fine fugar being beaten, aud putin a 
long dith or tray, and put to it whites of eighteen eggs, 
and beat them well together with your rouling pin, 
and divide it into three parts, put each part equally in- 
to the feveral pipkins, and ftir it well together; the 
broth being almoft cold, then fet them on a charcoal 
fire and let them ftew leifurely, when they begin to 
boil over, take them off, let it cool a little, run them 
through the bags once or twice and keep it for your ule. 

For variety fometimes in place of wine, you may 
ufe grapes ftamped and ftrained, wood-forrel, juyce 
of lemons, or juyce of oranges. ek 








n= 


To jelly Hogs or Porkers Feet, Ears, or Snouts. 

Take one feet,{ix ears, & fix {nouts or nofes,being 
finely f{calded, & lay them in foak twenty four hours, 
fhift 8 {crape them very white,then boil them ina fair 
clean fcoured brafs pot or pipkin in three gallons of li- 
-quor,five quarts of water, three of wine-vinegar, or ver- 
jyce, and four of white-wine,boil them from three gal- 
lonsto four quarts wafte,being fcum’d, put in an ounce 
‘of pepper whole, an ounce of nutmegs in. quarters, an 
ounce of ginger {lic’t, and an ounce of cinamon, boil 

them together, asis abovefaid, to four quarts. 
_ Then take up the meat,and let them cool,divide them » 
into difhes,&run it over with the broth or jelly being a 
little firft fetled;take the cleareft, & being cold put juice 
or een over all, ferve it with bay-leaves about 2 
dl 0, 


H 


| 
| 


j 
| 


| 
2 
| 
| 


4 

























202 The Accomplilot COOK: Or 


x 
7 





ye To make aGryftal Felly, = 
"Take three pair of calves feet, and fcald off the hair 
very clean, knock off the claws, and take out the great — 
bones & fat,8ccaft them into fair water,fhift them three — 
or four times in a day and a night, then boil them next — 
morning ina glazed Fore or clean pot, with fix quarts — 
of fair {pring water,boil it and {cum it clean,boil away — 
three quarts or more ; then ftrain it intoa clean earthen — 
pan or bafon,&let it be cold:then prepare the drofs from — 
the bottom, and take the fac of the top clean, put it in 
a large pipkin of {ix quarts,and put into it two quarts of 
old clear white-wine, thejuyce of four lemons, three © 
blades of mace,and two races of ginger flic’t; then melt — 
ot diffolve it again into broth, and let it cool. Then - 
have four pound of hard fugar fine beaten, and mix it © 
with twelve whites of eggs in a great dith with your © 
rouling pin,and put it into your pipkin to your jelly,ftir — 
it together with a grain of musk and ambergriefe, put 
it ina fine linnen clout bound up, and a quarter of a pint 
of damask rofe-water,fet it a ftewing ona foft charcoal 
fire, before it boils put in a little ifing glafs, and being © 
boil’d up,take it,andletit cool alittle,andrun it, = 


Other Felly for ferwice of feveral colours. d 

Take four pair of calves feet, a knuckle of veal, a ~ 
good flefhie capon, and prepare thefe things as is faid © 
in the cryftal jelly; boil them in three gallons of fair — 
water,till {ix quarts be wafted,then {train it inan earth- © 
en pan,let it cool, and being cold pare the bottom, and — 
take off the fat on the top alfo; then diflolve it again in- © 
to broth,and divide it into 4 equal parts,putitinto four 7 
{everal pipkins, as will contain five pints a piece each ~ 
pipkin,put a little faffron into one of them,into we | 
| cutah- — 


.& 


7 
, 
9 


ee ee ee re er fe ee 
“sal z re 
« 


_ The Art and Myftery of Cookery. 203 


cutchenele beaten with allum,into another turnfole,and 
the other hisown natural white; alfo to every pipkina 
quart of white-wine,and the juyce of two lemons. Then 
alfo to the white jelly one race of ginger pare’d and flic’t 
& three blades of large mace,to the redjelly 2 nutmegs, 
as much in quantity of cinamon as nutmegs,alfo as much 
pingersto the turnfole put alfo the fame quantity,with a 
ew wholeclovessthen to the amber or yellow color,the 
fame fpices and quantity. Then have eighteen whites of 
eggs, beat them with fix pound of double refined fu- 
gar, beaten fmall and ftirred together in a great trayor — 
bafon witha rouling pin divide ic into four parts in the ~ 
four pipkins & ftir it to your jelly broth,{pice,& wine, 
being well mixed together with a little musk & amber- 
griefe. Then have new bags,wafhthem firft in warm wa- 
ter, and then in cold,wring them dry, and being ready 
ftrung with packthread on fticks, hang them on a {pit 
by the fire from any duft, and fet new earthen pans un- 
der them being well feafoned with boiling liquor. 
Then again fet on your jelly on a fine charcoal fire,and 
let it ftew foftly the {pace of almoft an hour,then make 
it boil up alittle, and take it off, being fomewhat cold 
run it through the bag twice or thrice,or but once if it 
be very clear; and into the bags of colors put in a {prig 
of rofemary, keep it for your ufe in thofe pans, difh ic 
as you fee good, or caft it into what mould you pleaie ; 
-asforexample thefe. | 
Scollop (hells, Cockle hells, Egg (hells, half Lewon, or 
Lemon-peel, Wilks, or Winkle (hells, Mufcle hells or moul- 
ded out of a butter-{quirt. 

Or ferve it on agreat difh and plate, one quarter of 
_white, another of red, another of yellow, the fourth of 
another colour,& about the fides of the difh oranges in 
quarters of jelly,in the middle a whole lemon full of jelly 
Be | finely 












‘Se 


204 ‘ The Accomplifot CO OK: Or, 





a 


finely carved, or caft out of a wooden or tin mould, or’ 
run into little round glaffes four or five in a difh, on fil- 
ver trencher plates, or glafs trencher plates. — a 


The quantities for a quart of Felly Broth for the true 
ph: , making of tt. | heey 4 

A quart of white-wine, a poundand ahalf of fugar, 
eggs, two nutmegs, or mace, tworaces of ginger, as 
much cinamon, two grains of musk and ambergriefe,- 
calves feet, or a knuckle of veal. : , 
Sometimes for variety, in place of wine, ufe grape- — 
verjuyce; if juyce of grapes a quart, juyce of lemons 2 
pint, juyceof oranges a quart, juyce of wood-forrel a 
- quart, and juyce of quinces a quart. | 1 
How to prepare to make a good Stock for Fellzes of all forts, 
and the meats moft proper for them, both for ferwice 
and fick-folks ; alfo the quantities belonging to a quart 
of Fellte. 3” 


For the ftock for fervice. 


Two pair of calves feet finely cleanfed, the fat and 
great bones taken out and parted in halves; being” 
well foaked in fair water twenty four hours, and often — 
fhifted,boil them in a brafs pot or pipkin clofe covered, — 
in the quantity of a gallon of water, boil them to three — 
pints,then {train the broth through a clean ftrong canvas — 
into an earthen pan or bafon;when it is cold take off the 
top, and pare off the dregs from the bottom. Put it ina — 
clean well glazed pipkin of two quarts, with a quart of 
white-wine, a quarter of a pint of cinamon-water, as_ 
much of ginger-water, & as much of nutmeg-water, or 
thefe {pices fliced.Then have two pound of double ie . 

ned | 


i 


‘The Art and Myftery of Cookery. = 205 

ned fugar beaten with eggs, in a deep difh or bafon, 

your jelly being new melted,put in the eggs with fugar, 

ftir all the forefaid materials together,and fet itaftewing 

on a foft charcoal fire the {pace of half an hour or more, 
eing well digefted and clear run. | 

_ Take out the bone and fat ofany meat for jellies,for 


it doth but-ftain the ftock, andis the caufe that it will 
never be white nor very clear. 


Meats proper for Felly for fervice or fick folks. 
1. Three pair of calves feet, 

_ 2. Three pair of calves feet, a knuckle of veal, and a 
fine well flefhed capon. : 
3. One pair of calves feet,a well flefhed capon, and 
half a:pound ofharts-horn of ifing-glafs _, 

~ 4, An old cock and a knuckle of veal. 
5. Harts horn jelly only,or with a poultrey. 
6. Good bodied capons. 
7. Ifing-glafs only, or witha cock or capon. 
3. Jelly of hogs feet, ears, and {nouts. 
_g. Sheeps feet, lambs feet, and calves feet. 


Nears feet for a felly for a Neats-Tongue, 
_ Being frefhand tender boil’d and cold, lard it with 
candied cittern candied orange, lemon, or quinces, run 
it over with jelly, and fome preferved barberries or 
chreries. : : 





Yo make a Felly as white as [now of Forden- Almonds. 
Take a pound of almonds, {teep them in cold water 
till they will blanch, which’ will be in fix hours; being 
blanched into cold water,beat them witha quart of rofe 
water :.then have a decoétion of half'a pound of iftng- 
glafs,boil’d with a gallon of fair {pring-water,or elfe half 
| ‘ wine 





4 -* cool;being cold cleanfe it from the grounds,pare off the 





i ood) Dis anes (aba DS Godt eT ee, ke, 
:y , L, » 5 5 '? ee ‘ 


, 206 The Accomplifot COOK: Or, 


wine,boil ic till halfbe wafted, then let it cool,ftrain its 
and mingle it with your almonds,and ftrain with them 
a pound of double refined fugar, the juyce of two le- 
mons,and caft it into egg fhells put faffron to fome of it, 
and make fome of it blue,fome of it green,and fome yel- 
low; caft fome into oranges,and fome into lemon rindes 
caridied : mix part of it with fome almond pafte colo- 

red; and fome with cheefe-curds; ferve of divers of 

- thefe colours on agreat difh and plate. 


To make other white Felly, 

Boil rwo capons being cleanfed,the fac and lungs taken 
-out,trufs them and foak them well in clean water threé 
or four hours ; then boil them in a pipkin,or pot of two 
gallons or lefs, put to them a gallon or five quarts of 
white wine, {cum them, and boil them to a jelly, next 
{train the broth from the grounds and blow off the fat 
clean ; then take a quart of {weet cream, a quart of the 
jelly broth,a pound and half of refined fugar,and a quar- 
ter of a pint of rofe water,mingle them all together,and 
give them a warm on the fire withhalf an ounce of 
fine fearfed ginger ; then fet it a cooling, difh it,or caft 
itin lemon or orange-peels, or inany fafhion of the o- 
ther jellies, in moulds or glaffes,or curn it into colours ; 
for fick folks in place of cream ufe ftamped almonds. — 


§ ca 

To make Fellies for fauces, made difhes, and other works. 

| Wake fix patt of calves feet,{cald them and take away 
the fat between the claws, as alfo the great long fhank 
bones, and lay them in water four or five hours;then boil 
them in two gallons of fair {pring water, fcum therh 
clean and boil them from two gallons tothree quarts, 
then ftrain ic through a {trong canvas, and let the broth 





Wak 


« tom 
C fop 


- 


ot : , J 
“ j 
E . 3 - % d 


ne a ER ita Sree Ba eS baat dealer ee 
ee Ni wig 





The Art and Myftery of Cookery. 207 
op and melt it,then put to it ina good large p i 


0} it,ther : i akin, three 
luarts of white-wine, three races of ginger fli 


ct, fome 


ix blades of mace,a quarter of an ounce of cinamon, a. 


rain of musk,and eighteen whites of eggs beaten with 
our pound of fugar, mingle them with the reft in the 
upkin,and the juyce of three-lemons,fet all on the fire, 


ind Jet it ftew leifurely ;then have your bag ready wath. 


2d, and when your pipkin boils up, runit, ec. 
: Harts horn Felly, 


Take halfa pound of harts-horn,boil ic in fair {pring 


water leifurely,clofe covered,and in a well glazed pip- 


kin that will contain a gallon,boil it till a fpoonful will 


tand ftiff being cold, then ftrain it through a fine thick 
-anvas or fine boultering, and put it again into another 
efler pipkin, with the juyce of eight or nine good large 
emons, a pound ‘and halfof double refined fugar, and 
soil it again a little while, then put it in a gally pot, or 
fmall glaffes, or caft it into moulds, or any fafhions of 
the other jellies, Itis held by the Phyficians fora {pecial 
Cordial. 

Or take halfa pound of harts-horn grated,and a good 
sapon being finely cleanfed and foaked from the blood, 
and the fat taken off, trufS it,and boil it in a pot or pip- 
kin with the harts-horn, in fair {pring water, the fame 
things as the ane, ak gia aes: 


< 


To make another excellent Fells of Harts born and V/ing- 
glafs for a Confumption. 


~ Take halfa pound of ifing-glafs;halfa pound ofharts-  — 


horn, halfa pound of flict dates, a pound of beaten 
fugar, half a pound of flic’t figs,a pound of flic’t prunes, 
half an ounce of cinamon, halfan ounceof ginger, a 


quarter of an.ounce of mace, aquarter of an ounce of ° 


cloves, 





alt Ee Sie A ee ee 


¥ 5 cna ih 
oe ae Wed A 





To make another difh of meat called a Prefs, for fervice, 


Do in this as you may {fee in the jelly of the porker; 
before {poken of; take the feet,ears,{nouts, and cheeks, 
being finely and tender boil’d toa jelly with fpices,and 
the fame liquor as is faid in the Porker ; then take out 
the bones and makea lay of it ikea fquare brick, feafon 
it with coriander or fennil-feed, and bind itup like a 





{quare brick in a {trong canvas with packthred, prefS ic. _ 


till ic be cold,and ferve it in flices with bay-leaves, or — 


run it over withjellies. 


, To make a Saufage for Felly. 
_ Boil or roaft a capon,mince and {tamp it with fome al- 
mond pafte,then have a fine dried ReaRGREN OH ae 
ae | looks 


Sy a 


i 





/ 


ee ETA SY ar CP Ie oT «Mee S rs Masbate 4. te aR regi ate ee 
ste j . 4 e * 


% 


es i ih ta lee ray * 4 





The Art and Myftery of Cookery. 209 


Ae Nee ee rman ARORA Atte rene 
- 


Jooks fine and red ready boil’d, cut it into little pieces, 
iquare like dice,half an inch long.aad as much of inter- 
dJarded bacon cut into the fame form ready boil’d arid 


cold,fome preferved quincesand barberries, fugar, and ~ 
cinamon, mingle al] together with fome {craped ifing- 
glafs amongft it warmsroul ic upin a fauiage,knit it up 
at the ends; and fow the fides; then ler it,cool, flice ir, 
and ferve it in ajelly in a dith in thin flices, and run jel- 


ly over it, let it cool and-lay.on more, that cool, run 


more, and thus do tillthe difh-be full ; when you ferve 
it, garnifh the -difh wth jelly-and preferved barberries, 
and run over all withjuyce of lemon. 


To make Leach a moft excellent way in the 
French Fafhion. 


Take aquart of fweet cteam,twelve fpoonfils of rofe- 


water,four grains of musk diffolvéd in rofe-water, and 
four or five blades of large mace boil’d with halfa 
pound of ifing-glafs,being {teeped and wafhed clean,and 
put to it half a pound of fugar, and being boil'd toa 
jelly,run it through your jelly bag into a difh, and being 
cold flice it into chequer-work, and ferve it on a plate 
or glaffes, and fometimes without fugar in it, ec: 


To make the beft Almond Leach. 
* "Take an ounce of ifing-gla(s, and lay it two hours in 


water, fhift it, and boil ic in fair water, let it cool; then 
take two pound of almonds, lay them in the water 


- tillrhey will blanch,then ftamp them and put to them a 


pint of milk, {train them, and pucin large mace and 
flic’t ginger, boil them till it ues well of the {pice,then 
Q put 














Ie 
' aN 3 


310 Re Aci WOO OREOR 
put in your digefted ifing-glafs, fugar, and a little rofe- 
water, ran it througha ftrainer, and put it into difhes. 
Some you may colour with faffron, turnfole,or green 
wheat, and blew-bottles for blew. = = 





ig To keep Sparagus all the year, $ 
Parboilthem very little,and put them into clarified 
_ butter, cover them with it, the butter being cold, co- 
ver them witha leather, and about a month after re- 
fre(h the butter, melt it, arid put it on them again,then 
_ fet them under ground being covered with a leather. 


* 


Section 


n 
+e, 
. ; 












Sea es 


The Art and Myftery of Cookery. | 





Section | re 


T be beft way of making all mnluee 
of baked Meats. 





—_———~——. 


To make a Biskor BataliaPie, © 

Ake fix peepingPigeons,and as many peeping {mall 
chickens,trufs them to bake; then have fix oxe pal- 

lets well boil’d and blancht,and cut in lictle pieces; then 
take fix lamb-ftones, and asmany good veal {weet- 
breads cut in halves and parboil’d,twenty cocks-combs 
boil’d and blanch’d,the bottoms of four artichocks bo: 
led and blanched, a quart of great oy{ters parboil'd and 
bearded, alfo the marrow of four bones feafoned — 
with pepper, nutmeg, mace, and falt 5 fill the pye with 
the meat, and mingle fome piftaches amongft it, cock- 
{tones, knots, or yolks of hard eggs, and fome butter, 
clofe it up and bake ic (an hour and half will bake it ) 
but before you {et it in the oven, put into ita little fair 
water : Being baked pour out the butter, and liquor it, 
with gravy,butter beaten up thick, flic’t lemon, and 
ferve it up. 7 eh ae 

Or you may bake this bisk in a patty-pan or dith. 

Sometimes ufe {paragus and interlarded bacon. 

For the pafte of this difh, take three quarts of four, 
and three quarters of a pound of butter, boil the but- 
ter in fair water, and make up the pafte hor and quick, 

, | CQ) 2 Other 














212 ~~. The Acconmplifht C 


ee ee ° 








Otherways inthe fummer time, make the pafte of 

cold butter ; to three quarts of flour take a pound and 

a half of butter, and work it dry into the flour, with 

the yolks of four eggs andone white, then puta little 
water to it,and make it up into a ftiff pafte. | 


To hake Charkens ay t & aane 


Take either fix pigeon peepers or fix chicken peepers, 
ifbig cut themin quarters,then take three {weet-breads 
of -veal flic’c very thin, three 

5 {heeps tongues boil’d tender , 

: ——=F blanched and flic’t, with as much 
i Sapte { veal, as much mutton, fix larks, 

S| E®,, wielve cocks combs, a pint of 
————— ‘great oyfters parboild and beard- 
ed, calves udder cut in pieces and three marrow bones, 
feafon thefe forefaid materials with pepper, falt, and 
nutmeg, then fill them in pies of the form as you fee, 
and put on the topfome chefnuts,marrow, large mace, — 
srapes, or goofebetries; then havea little piece of veal 
and mince it with as much marrow, fome grated bread, 
yolks of eggs, minced dates, falr, nutmeg, and fome 
{weet marjoram, work upall wieha little cream, 
make it up in little balls or rouls, put them in the pie, 
and put in a little mutton-gravy, fome artichock bot- 
toms, or the tops of boild {paragus, and a little butter; 
clofe up the pie and bake it, being baked liquor it 
with juyce of oranges, one.lemon, and fome claret 
wine, fhake it well rogerher, and {o ferve it. 

To Make a Chicken Pre otberways. 

Take and tru{s them to bake,then feafon them lightly 
with pepper,falr,and nutmeg ; lay them in the pie, and 
lay on them fome dates in halves, with the marrow 9 

ree f 
















eas tu? 


F * 





[he Art and Myfteryof Cookery. =. 213 
three marrow-bones, fome large mace, a quarter of a 
pound of eringo roots, fome grapes or barberries, an 
- fome butter, clofe it up, and put it in the oven ; being 
half baked,liquor it with a pound of good butterja quar- 
ter ofa pint of grape-verjuyce, and a quartérn of reft- 
ned fugar, iceit and ferve it up. HO ne tobe 

Otherways you may ule the giblets, and putin fome 
7 but keep the former: order as aforefaid for 
change. | eyraly 

Ligne it with caudle made of a pint of white-wine or 
verjuyce, the yolks of five or fix eggs, fugar,and a quar- 
ter of a pound of good {weet butter; fill the pyejand - 
fhake this liquor well in it, with the flices of a lémon:. 
Or you may make the caudle green withthe juyce of 
-fpinage ; ice thefe pies, or fcrape fugar onthem. 
_ Otherways for the liquoring or garnifhing of thefe 

Pies,for variety you may put in them boil’d skirrets,bot-_ - 
tom of artichocks boil'd, or boil’d cabbidge lettice. 

Sometimes {weet herbs,whole yolks of hard eggs,in- 
terlarded bacon in very thin flices, and a whole onions 
being baked, liquor it with white-wine, butter, and the 
juyce of two oranges. | | Ein! 

- Or garnifh them with barberries,grapes,or goofeber- 
~ries,red or white currans,and fome {weet herbs chopped » 
fmall,boil’d in gravy ; and beat up thick with butter. 

Otherways liquor it with white-wine, butter, fugar, 
fome {weet marjoram, and yolks of eggs ftrained. 

Or bake them with candied lettice ftalks, potatoes, 
boil’d and blanch’d, marrow,dates, and large mace; be- 
ing baked cut.up the pye, and lay on the chickens, flic’t 
Jemon, then liquor the pye with white-wine, butter,and 
fugar, and ferve it up hot. 

You may bake any of the forefaid in a patty-pan or 

difh, or bake them in cold butter patfte. 
| : Q 3 To 


x 








To bake Turkey, Chicken, Pea-Ghicken, Pheafant-Pouts, 
Heath Pouts, Caponets,or Partridge for to be eaten cold, 

- Take a turkey-chicken,bone it,and lard it with pret- 
ty big lard, a pound and half will ferve, then feafonit 
with an ounce of pepper,an ounce of natmegs,and two 
ounces of falt,lay {ome butter in the bottom of the pye, 
then lay.on the fowl, and put in ic fixor eight whole 
cloves,then put on all the feafoning with good ftore of 
butter, clofe it up, and bafte it over with eggs, bakeit, 
and being baked fll ic up with clarified butter. 

_ Thus you may bake them for to be eaten hot,giving 
themibut half the feafoning,and liquor it with gravy and 
juyce of orange. } | 
Bake this pye in fine pafte;for more variety you may _ 
make a ftuffing for it as followeth ; mince fome beef- 
fuet anda little veal very fine,fome {weet herbs, grated 
mutmeg, pepper, falr, two or three raw yolks of eggs, 
fome boil'd skirrets or pieces of artichocks, grapes, or 
gooteberries, ec. | ' | 


To bake Pigeons wild or tame, Stock-Doves,Turtle-Doves, 
Luails, Ratls, ec. to be eaten cold. 

Take fix pigeons,pull,trufs,and draw them,wath and 
wipe them dry, and feafon them with nutmeg, pepper, 
and falt,che quantity of two ounces of the foretird {pices, 
and as much of the one as the other,then lay fome butter 
in the bottom of the pye, lay on the pigeons, and put 
all the feafoning on them in the pye, put butter to it, 
clofe it up and bake it, being baked and cold, fill ir up 
with clarified butter. | | 

Make the pafte of a portle of fine flour,and a quarter: 
of a pound of bucter boil'd in fair water made up quick 


If 


and tiff, 





~The Art and Myftery of Cookery.. 215 
If you will bake them to be eaten hot, leave out half 
le feafoning : Bake them in difh, pie, or patty-pan, 
_ and make cold pafteof a pottle of flour, fix yolks of 
raw eggs, and a pound of butter, work into the flour 
dry, and being well wrought into it, make it up ftiff 
with a little fair water. | | 
~ Being baked to be eaten hot,put it into yolks of hard 
eggs, fweet-breads, lamb-ftones, {paragus, or bottoms 
of artichocks, chefnuts, grapes, or goofeberries. 
Sometimes for variety make a lear of butter,verjuyce, 
fugar, fome {weet marjeram chopped and boil’d up in 
the liquor, put them in the pye when you {erve it up, 
and diffolve the yolk of an egg into it ; then cut upthe 
pye or difh,and put on it fome flic’t lemon, hake it well 
together, and ferveit up hot. 
In this mode or fafhion you bake larks, black-birds, 
thrufhes, veldifers, {parrows, or wheat-ears. 
To bake all manner of Land: Fowl,as Turkey, Buftard,P ea- 
cock, Grane, ec. to be eaten cold, 
Take a turkey and bone it, parboil and lard it thick 
with great lard as big as your little finger, then feafon 
- it with 2 ounces of beaten pepper, two ounces of bea- 
ten nutmeg, and three ounces of falt, feafon the fowl], 
and lay itin a pie fit for it,put firft butter in the bottom, 
with fome ten whole cloves,then lay on the turkey,and 
the reft of the feafoning on it,lay on good ftore of butter, 
then clofe it up and bafte it either with faffron water, 
or three or four eggs beaten together with their yolks; 
bake it, and being baked and cold, liquor it with clari- 
fied butter, &c. 
To bake all manner of Sea- Fowl, as Svan, Whopper, 
to be eaten cold. 
Take a fwan, bone,parboil and lard ic wich great lard, 
feafon the lard with nutmeg and pepper only,then take 
OF 4 TW 








with gravy, claret, and butter, | 


To drefs a Turkey in the French mode, to eat cold, 
called aladoode. 7 
Take a turkey and bone it,or not bone it,but boning is 
the beftway,and lard it with good big lard as big as your 
little finger and feafon it with pepper,cloves,and mace, 
nutmegs, and puta piece of interlarded baconinthe 
belly with fome rofemary and bayes, whole’ pepper, 
cloves ana mace, and few itup in a clean cloth, and lay 
itin fteep all night in white-wine, next morning clofe 
it up witha fheet af courfe pafte ina pan or pipkin,and 
bake it with the fame liquor it was fteept im; it will 
_ ask four hours baking; ; or.you may boil the liquor; 
~ then being baked and cold,ferve it ona pie-plate, and 


i ere ar 





abi eA cet vas Sn SAR ll aa MI nk a 
Ne, The Art and Myftery of Cookery. 217. 


ftick it with rofemary and bays, and ferve itup with 





muftard and fugar in faucers,and lay the fowl on anap- 


kin folded {quare, and the turkey laid corner-ways. 
Thus any large fowl or other meat, as a leg of mut- 
ton, and thelike. —— ' 


Meats proper for a ftofado may be any large fowl, as, 


Turkey, Swan, Goofe, Buftard, Grane, Whopper, wild 
Geefe, Brand Geefe, Hearn, Shoveler or Bittern,and ma- 
ny more ;_as alfo Venfon, Red Deer, Fallow Deer, Legs of 
Matton, Breafts of Veal boned and larded, Kid or Fawn, 
Pig, Pork, Neats-tongues, and Udders, or any Meat, a 
Turkey,Lard one pound,Pepper one ounce, Nutmegs Ginger, 
Mace, Gloves, Wine a quart, Vinegar balf a pint,a quart 
of great Oyfters, Puddings, Saufages, two Lemons, twe 
Cloves of Garlick, 7 


A Stofado, 


Take two turkeys, & bone them and lard them with 
great lard as big. as your finger,being firft feafoned with 
pepper, & nutmegs, & being larded,lay it in {teepin an 

_earthen pan or pipkin ina quart of white- wine, & half 
- asmuch wine-vinegar, fome twenty whole cloves, half 
. an ounce of mace,an ounce of beaten pepper,three races 
of {lic’t ginger, half ahandful of {alt, half an ounce of. 
flic’t nutmegs, and a ladleful of good mutton broth,é 
clofe up the pot witha fheet of courfe pafte, and bake 


it; it will ask fourhours baking; then have a fine . 


clean large difh, with a fix penny French bread flic’t in 
large flices, and then lay them in the bottom of a dith, 


and fteep them with fome good {trong mutton broth, 


and the fame broth that it was baked in, and fome 
Ri roatt 


* 


7h 


| roaft mutton gravy,and difh the fowl,and garnith it with 
the {pices and fome faufages,and fome kind of good pud- 






52 gens fo SE gh ica cna Se Bat bof ise ware sigs i 7 “i ce = ay re . a, 
e Accomplifot Ket OP, aa 
i Ie } " ‘ 


eee ane marrow and carved lemons flic’t, and lemon- 
peels. vy 


To bake any kind of Heads, and firft of ihe Oxe iy Bullocks — | 


Cheeks to be eaten hot or cold. 





: | therways. | a 
_- Bone and lard them with lard as big as your litttle 
finger fea {oned with pepper, falt, and nutmeg, and laid 
, into the pyeor pafty,with flices of interlard- 
= 2 ed bacon, and a clove or two,clofe it up, and 

=== bakeit with fome butter; make your pye 
hme \ oF pafty of good fine cruft according to 


Pe 


: thefe forms. Being baked fill it up with 
2 good {weet butter. i 
——-— Otherways. 
‘You may make a pudding of fome grated bread, min- 
shah. 









The Art and Myftery of Cookery. 219 


ced veal,beet-fuet,fome minced {weet herbs, a minced 
Onion, eggs,cream,nutmeg, pepper, and fale, and lay it 
onthe top of your meat in the pye, and fome butter, 
clofeit up and bake it. 





Otherways. 


Take a calves head,foak it well and take out the brains, © 

boil the head and take out the bones, being cold ftuff it 

with {weet herbs and hard eggs chop- 

ped {mall,minced bacon, and a raw egg 

or two, nutmeg, pepper, and falt-s and 

lay inthe bottom of the pye minced 

veal raw, and bacon; then lay the 

cheeks on it in the pye, and flices of 

re bacon on that, then{pices, butter, and 

grapes or lemon,clofe it up, bake it, and liquor it with | 

butter only. 
Otherways. 

Boil it and take out the bones, cleanfe it,and feafon it 

with pepper,falt, and nutmeg, put fomeminced veal or 

EE Nay oe D a lg of ae pye, Be lay 

ZA on the cheeks, and on them a pudding 

SS Bg made of minced veal raw and {uet,cur- 

“ rans, grated bread or parmifan, eggs, 

faffron, nutmeg, pepper, and falt, put 

it on the head in the pye, with fome 

thin flices of interlarded bacon, thin 

flicesalfo of veal and butter, clofe it 

up, and make it according to thefe 

forms, being baked, liquor ict with 
butter only. 


To bake a Galves Chaldvon. 


Boil irtender, and being cold minceit, and feafon i . 
ee NATL 





¥ 





a ee Lae i ney 
BAR ee A ae eee ila 
i PRRs a Mr Res 3. va Nes 
Aas ihe FEE Revi 


2 


mee SAS Seek ee ag 
DASE A + Kt deal d 0 * 
Mee Ere 


The Accomp 





. . 
“nd 4 


a ne are bs rae oe wat 
Dy 25 ea pe Des! 
. f 
v z ay 
~e * ‘ p, 
ha O ; J ; : 
Ae 7 >: “ 
o ! 





7 i 


220 








with nutmeg, pepper, cinamon, ginger, falt, caraway - 
feeds, verjuyce, or grapes, fome currans, fugar, rofe- 
water and dates ftir. them all rogether and fill your pye, 
bake it, and being baked ice in. . Q 


Minced Pres of Calves Chaldrons,or Muggets. 
Boilit tendér,and being cold mince it fmall,then put to 
it bits of lard cut like dice, or interlarded bacon, fome 


= yolks of hard eggs cut like dice alfo, 
a ues fome bits of vealand mutton cut alfo 
C2) © inthe fame bigness, as alfo lamb, fome — 
: oofeberries; grapes or barberries, and 
ts; feafon it with nutmeg, pepper, and fale, 
v—~ fillyour pyé, andlay on it fome thin 
: flices of interlarded bacon, and butter ; 
clofeit up, and bake it, liquor it with 
white-wine beaten with butter, 





To bake a Calves Ghaldyon or Muggets 12 aPye of little Pa- 
fties,or make a Pudding of it, adding two or three Eggs. 


Being half boil’d,mince it fmall,with half a’ pound of 
beef-fuet, and {eafon it with beaten cloves and mace, 
nutmegs, alittle onion and minced Jemon peel, and put 
to it the juyce of an orange,and mix all together. Then 
make a piece of puff pafte and bake it in a difh as. other 
Floren-tinés, and clofe it up with the other half of the 
pafte, and being baked put into it the juyce of two or - 
three oranges, and ftir the meat with the orange juyce 
well togethér and ferve it, Ge - ~ 


To bake a Pig to be eaten cola called a Maremaid Pye. 
Take a Pig,flay ir and quarter it, then boneit, take 

alfoa good Eel flayed, fpeated, boned, and pnt 
: wit 











and Myftery of Cookery. eae ot 


Co ywith pepper, falt, and nutmeg, then 
E =f lay a quarter of your pig in a round pie; 
= 2 and part of the Eelon that quarter, then 
| lay another quarter. on the other and 
then more eel, and thus keep the order till your piebe 
full, then lay a few whole cloves, flices of ‘bacon, and 
butter, and clofe icup, bake ir in- good fine’ pafte, be- 
ing baked and cold, fill ic up with good {weet butter. 
therways.. OS REG BL IO. 
Scald it, and bone it being firft cleanfed,dry the fides 
in a clean cloth, and feafon them with beaten nutmeg, 
pepper, falt, and chopped fage; then have two neats- 
tongues dryed, well boild, and cold, flice them out all 
the length, as thick as a halfcrown, and lay a quarter 
of your pig in a {quare or round pie, ‘and {lices of the 
tongue onit,then another quarter of a pig and‘more 
tongue,thus do four times double; and lay overall fli- 
cesof bacon, a few cloves, butter, and a bay-leafe-or 
twosthen bake it,and being baked, fillit up with good 
- fweet butter. Make your pafte white of butter and 
flower. | P 
ts Otherways. HOS 
Take a pig being fcalded, flayed,and quartered, fed- 
fon it with beaten nutmeg, pepper, {alt, cloves, and 
mace, lay it in your pie with {ome chopped {weet herbs 
hard eggs, currans, (or none ) put your herbs between 
every lay, with fome goofeberries; grapes, or barber- 
ries, and lay on the top flices of interlarded bacon and. 
butter, clofe it up,.and bake it in good fine cruft,being 
baked, liquor it with butter, verjuyce, and fugar. If to 
be eaten cold, with butter only. f 
fer Otherways to be eaten hat. 
Cut it in pieces, and make a pudding of grated bread, 
cream, fuer, nutmeg, eggs, and dates,make it into wae 
anc 








222 ‘The Accompliflt COOK: Or, 


and ftick them with flic’t almonds ; then lay the pig 
in the pye, and balls onic, with dates, potato, large 
mace, lemon, and butter ; being baked liquor it. 


| To bake four Hares in a Pie. , 

Bone them and lard them with great lard, being firft 
feafoned with nutmeg, and pepper, then take four oun- 
ces of pepper, four ounces of nutmegs,and eight ounces 
_ of falr, mix them together, feafon them, and make a 
round or {quare pye of courfe boulted rye and meal; 
then the pie being made put fome butter in the bottom 
of it, and lay on the hares one upon another; then 
put upon it a few whole cloves,a fheet of lard over it, 
and good ftore of butter, clofeit up and bake it, being 

firft bafted over with eggs beaten together,or faffron 5 
Whenit is baked liquor them with clarified butter. 

.. Or bake them in white pafte or pafty, if to be eaten 

hot, leave out half the feafoning. 


To bake three Hares in a Pie to be eaten cold, 


Bone three hares, mince them {mall, and ftamp them — 
-with the feafoning of pepper, falt, and nutmeg, then 
have lard cut as big as ones little finger, and as longas 
will reach from fide to fide of the pye ; then lay butter 
in the bottom of it,and a lay of meat, then a lay oflard, - 
and a lay of meat, and thus do five or fix times, lay 
your lard all one way, but laft ofall alay of meat, a 
few: whole cloves,and flices of bacon over all,andfome | 
butter, clofe it up and bake it, being baked fill it up 
with {weet butter, and {top the vent. 

Thus you may bake any venifon, beef, mutton, veal, 
or rabits ; ifyoubake them in earthen pans they will 
keep the longeft. Byes i 

; Ad 





"The Art and Myftery of Cookery. 223 


| ee a bake paren ore Pudding tn his belly. 





For to make this pie you muft take as followeth, a 
gallon of flour, half an ounce of nutmegs, half an ounce 
of pepper, falt, capers, raifins,pears in quarters, prunes, 
with grapes, lemon, or goofeberries, and for the liquor 
a pound of fugar, a pint of claret or verjuyce,and fome 
large mace. aie 

Thus alfo you may bake a fawn, kid, lamb, or rabit: 
Make your Hare-Pie according to the foregoing form.. 


To make minced Pies of a Hare. 


‘Take a Hare, flay it,.and cleanfe it, then take the 

ra fiefh fromthe bones, and mince it 
with the fat bacon, or beef {uet raw, 
feafon it with pepper, mace, nut- - 
-meg, cloves, and falt; then mingle 
alltogether with fome grapes,goofe- 
? berries, or barberries; fill the pie, 
* clofe it up and bake it. 

3 » > Otherways. 

Mince it with beef-fuet, a pound and half of raifins 
minced, fome currans, cloves,mace, falt, and cinamon, 
mingle all together, and fill the pie, bakeit and liquor 
it with claret. i ‘ 

B To 











—_ 
Qu, 
Le 
iq) 
paw) 
ct 
ot 
S ; 
oe 
eo 
0 ys 


Be: en mix ‘and-beat them all together, 
with as much fugar as youthink fit,then fry them likea 
- froife, after ess fried, let it ftand ullicis cold, then — 
fill your pie after this mnnner. ‘Take fliced apples fli- 





| ced thin round-ways, and lay a layer of the froife, and 
-. _ alayer ofapples,withcurrans betwixt the layers. While 
your pieis fiteed; put ina good deal of {weet butter be- 


“fore you clofe it. When the pieis baked,takefixyolks — 
of eggs, fome white-wine or verjuyce, and make a cau- 
dle of this, but not too thick, :cut up the lid, put’ it in, 
_ “and ftir them well together whilff the eggs and’piim- 
-- pion be not perceived, and fo ferve it up. °2°) = 
aE TWO" To make a Lamber:Pie 0 O01 
«Take fome grated bread, and-beef-fuet cut into:bits 
like great dice,and fome.cloves and mace, then fome 
-__-yeal or capon minced {mall with beef fuet,{weet herbs, 
* ~falt, fugar, the yolks of fix eggs boil'd'hard-and'cut in 
-_--quarters,put ‘them to the other ingredients, with fome 
_« barberries, fome yolks af raw eggs, and a little cream, 
> work up all together and putit in the cauls of veal like 
Tittle faufages ; then bake them in adifh, -andbeing . 
“half baked,have a pie made-and dried inthe oven$put 
-_ « thefe puddings into it with fome butter, verjuyce,. fu- 
gar, fome dates on them, large mace, grapes, or bar- 
eas berries, and marrow; being baked, ferve it with a cut 


eS | 


ee 
~ 3 


~ cover on it, and {crape fugar omit. |» 2) oon 
| ee Oshermaysac12 SAY Roe 
‘Take fome minc’t meat of chewits. of veal, and put to 
it fome three or four raw eggs, make itunto balls; then 
Dh " Ao UG 


‘ 





» 








put shen ina pye fel for chert according as 
& to this form; firft lay in the balls, then de 
on them fome flic’t dates; latge mace, mar-— 
| fowand butter ; clofeit up and bake it,being baked; li- 
uor it with verjuyce, fagar, and poe tet ice it, and 
erve it ups 








Ti make an ities Pye, 

Take tyme,fweet marjoram, {avory, {pinage, parfley; 
fage,endive,forrel,violet leaves, and {trawberry leaves, 
mince them very {mall with fome yolks Of hard eggs, 
then put to them halfa pound of currahs, nutmeg, pep- 
per,cinamon,fugar,and {alt,minced raifitis goofeberries, 
or barberries,and dates minc’d {mall mingle alltogether, | 
then have flices of a leg of veal, or a leg of mutton, cut 
thin and hacked with the back ofa knife,lay them on a 
clean board and ftrow on the forefaid materials, roul 
them up and put them in‘a pye; then lay on them fome 
dates,marrow; large mace, and fome butter, clofe icup 
and bakeir, being baked cutitup, liquor it with butter, 
verjuyce, and fugar.put ; a flic’t lemon into it,and ferve 
it ferve i it up with {eraped fugar. 


To bake a Lott , Breaft or Rack of Peal or wae 

If an bene it with the bones,joynt.a loin very well 
. © ~ dnd feafon it ith nutmeg, pepper, 

7 and fale, put it inyour pye, and put 

butter to it, clofe it up, and bake it _ 

_ in good cruft, and ees it with © 

* {weet butter. 

Thus alfo you may bake the breft, either in pye or pas 

fty,as alfo the rack or fhoulder,being ftuffed with {weet 

herbs,and fat of beef mies pacties and baked cither; 


itt Pye or patty. :. | 












rr’ } 


* 
rs 





+ APT 









~ In the fummer time you may add toit fpinage, goofe-_ 
berries,grapes,barberries,or flic’t lemon,and in winter, « 


prunes,and currans,or raifins, and liquor it with butter, — 


i aes ens . Se. 
a To make a Steak Pye the beft way. 


Cut aneck,loyn,or breaft into fteaks,and feafon them 


with pepper, nutmeg, and falt; then have fome few 


{weet herbs minced {mall with an onion, and the yolks © 


of three or four hard eggs minced alfo; the pye being 
‘made, put in the meat and a few capers,and ftrow thefe 


ingredients on it,then put in butter,clofe it up and bake 

it three hours moderately ,c*c.Make the pye round and 

pretty deep. | 
Otherways. 

The meat being prepared as before, feafon it with 
nutmeg, ginger, pepper,a whole onion,and falt ; fill the 
pye,then put in fome large mace,halfa pound of currans, 
and butter, clofe it up and put it in the ovensbeing half 
baked put ina pint of warmed clearet, and when you 
draw it to fend itup, cut the lid in pieces, and ftick it 
in the meat round the pye; or you may leave out onions, 
and putin fugar and. verjuyce. 

Otherways. 





Take a loyn of mutton,cut it in fteaks, and feafon it 
with nutmeg,pepper,and falt,then Jay a layer of raifins 
and prunes in the bottom of the pye,fteaks.on them ,and 
then whole cinamon,then more fruit and fteaks,thus do 
it three times,and on the top put more teu ANE SABE 








oe eS re ee ee 
* The Art and Myftery of Cookery... 227 


or flic’t orange;dates, large macesand butter, clofe it up 


and bake it; being baked; liquor it with butter; white 
wine and fugar, ice it; and ferve it hot. ‘a 
. ,  . Lo bake Steak Pies the French way. — . . 

_ Seafon the fteaks with pepper,nutmeg,and fale lightly, 
and fet them by; then take a piece of the leaneft of Neg 
of mutton,and mince it {mall with fome beef fuer and 
afew {weet herbs,as tops of tyme;penniroyal,young red 
fage,grated bread, yolks of eggs,{weet cream; raifins of 
the fun, ec. work all together, and make it into litrle 
balls, and rouls, put them into a deep round pye on 
the fteaks,then put to them fome butter,and fprinkle it 
with verjuyce, clofe it up and bake it, being baked cut 
itup,then rou! fage leaves in butter, fry them,and ftick 
them in theballs, ferve the pye without a cover, and 
liquor it with the juyce of twoor three oranges or le- 
mons. ake | 
eink ere en Otheripays Po ALY 

_ Bake thefe fteaks in any of the forefaid-ways in pat- 
ty-pan or difh, and make other pafte called cold butter. 
ae ; take to a gallon of flower a pound anda half of 

utter; four or five eggs and but two whites, work up 
the butter and.eggs into the flour, and being well 
Wrought, put toit alittle fair cold water; and make it, 
DOW i ee a . 
on _.» To bake a Gammon of Bacon, so 

- Steep it all night in water, {crape it clean,and {tuff it 
with all manner of {weet herbs,as fage, tyme, parfley, 
fweet marjoram,favory,violet-leaves,{trawberry leaves, 
fennil,rofe-mary,penniroyal,e*c. being cleans'd and chop- 
ped {mall with fome yolks of hard eggs,beaten nutmeg, 
jand pepper, ftuff ic and boil it, and being fine and tender. - 
boil'dand cold,pare the under fide,take off the skia,and 
é, K 2 feafor' 








Pri ok io 
A tn ae eee) 


gt: Oh ee 
> ‘ b Nf ; s 








aoe men 





en 
led a 4 






tee 
Yr, ee ae 


ape ia eR: 0 Si a aa a RTS pier 
228 The Accomplifot CO OK: : O ‘ 
feafon it with nutmeg and pepper, then Jay it in your 
_ pie or pafty with a few whole cloves,and flices of raw 
bacon over it,and butter ; clofe it up in pye or pafty of 
fhort pafte, and bake it. : re We 7 
ae To bake wild Bore. ) Sa 
Take the leg, feafon it,and lard it very well with good 
big lard feafoned with nutmeg, pepper, and beaten gin- 
cer, lay it ina pye of the form asyou’ 
iee,being feafoned all over with the 
», fame {pices and falt, then put a few 
' whole cloves on it,a few bay-leaves, 
large flices of lard, and good ftore 
of butter, bake it in fine or courfe 
iquor it with good {weet butter,and 








~ 


To bake your wild Bore that comes out of France. 
Lay it in foak two days, then parboil it,and feafon it 
with pepper,nutmeg,cloves, and ginger ; and when it 
is baked fall it up with butter. | | 


To bake Red Deer. 















ange? AT! Reena 
Be 
2 


The Art and Myftery of Cookery. 229 
back with great lard as big as your middle finger ; be- 
ing firft feafoned with nutmeg, and pepper; then take 

- four ounces of pepper, four ounces of nutmeg, and fix 
ounces of falt, mix them well together, and feafon the 
fide of venifon;being well flafhed with a knife in the in- 
fide for to make the feafoning enter ; being feafoned, 

- anda pie made according to thefe forms, put fome but- 
ter in the bottom of the pye, a quarter of an ounce of 
cloves, anda bay-leafor two, lay on the flefh, feafon 
it, and coat it deep, then put ona few cloves, and good 
ftore of butter, clofe it up and bake it the {pace of 
eight or nine hours, but firft bafte the pie with fix or {e- 
ven eggs, beaten well together ; being baked and cold 

-fillicup with good {weet clarified butter. 

Take for a fide or half hanch of red deer,half a buth- 
el of rye meal, being courfly fearfed, and make it up ve- 
ry ftiff with boiling water only. 

_ Ifyou bake it to eat hot, give ic but half the feafon- ~ 
ing, and liquor it with claret-wine, and good butter. 


To bake Fallow-Dear to be eaten hot or cold. 


Take a fide of venifon, bone and lard it with great 
lard as big asyour little finger, and feafonit withtwo 
ounces of pepper, two ounces of nutmeg, and four oun- 
ces of faltsthen have a pie made, and lay fome butter in 
the bottom of it, then lay in the flefh, the infide down- 
ward, coatit thick with feafoning, and putto it on the 
top of the meat, with a few cloves, and good ftore of 
butter, clofe it up and bake it, the pye being firft baited 
with eggs, being baked and cold, fillit up with clarified 
butter, and keep it to eat cold. Make the pafte as you 
do for red deer, courfe dreft through aboulter, a peck 
and a pottle of this meal will ferve -for a fide or half 
hanch of a buck, R30 To 









To bake a fide or half Hanch to be eaten hot. = 
Take a fide of abuck being boned, and the skins 
~ taken away, feafon it only with two ounces of pepper, 
and as much falt, or half an ounce more,lay it ona fhee 
of fine pafte with two pound of beef-fuet, finely min- 
ced and beat witha little fair water, and laid under it, 
clofe it up and bake it, and being fine and tender ba- 
ked, put to ita good ladle-full of gravy, or good {trong 
mutton broth oo 
3 To make a Pafte for tt. 

"Take a peck of flour by weight,and lay it on the pafte- 
ry board, makea holein the midft of the flour,and put 
to it five pound of good frefh butter, the yolks of fix - 
eggs and; but four whites, work up the butter and eggs 
into the flour, and being well wrought together, put 
fome fair water to it, and make itintoa {tiff pafte, 

In this fafhion of fallow deer you may bake goat, 
doe, or 4 palty of venifon” Soe a ad 


To make meer [auce, ov a Bickle to keep Vensfon in 
BS OES ODS ISLA ee 
_ "Take {trong ale and as much vinegar as will make it: 
Here boil ic ‘with fome bay-falt, and make a ftrong 
rine, {cum it, and let it ftand ill ic be cold, then put 
in your vinifon twelve hours, prefs it, parboil it, and 
feafon it, then bakeit as before is fhown,° = 
Other Sauce for tainted Venifon. 

_ "Take your venifon, and boil water, beer, and wine- 
vinegar together, ' and fome bay-leaves, tyme, favory, 
rofemary, and fennil, of eacha handful, when it boils 
put in your venifon, parboil it well and prefs it ane : 

fm EY Ae eth > wre, 5 eee AEE ROT AR ye a 3 eee e2 on 


Sew ek : 
( ‘ 


gee Megs 








- ¥ 
es  ioivaaiell 


| ‘The Art and Myftery of Cookery. ate 231 








feafon it as aforefaid, bake it for to be eaten cold or 


hot, and put fome raw minced mutton under ic. 


Otherways to preferve tainted Venifon. . 
Bury it in the ground ina clean cloth a whole night, 
and it will take away the corruption, favour, or ftink.: 


Other meer Sauces to counterfeit Beef, or Muton to give 

it a Ventfon-colour, 

Take fmall beer and vinegar, and parboil your beef 
in it,let it fteep all night, then putin fome turnfole to 
it, and being baked, a good judgment fhall not difcern 
it from redor fallow deer. 


Otherways to counterfeit Ram, Wether, or any Mutton 
for Ventfon. 


Bloody it in fheeps, Lambs, or Pigs blood, or any 
good and new blood, feafon it as before, and bake it 
either for hot or cold. In this fafhion you may bake 
mutton, lamb, or kid. | 


To make Umble-P ies. 


Lay minced beef-{uet in the bottom of the piejor fli- 
ces of interlarded bacon, and the umbles cut.as big as 
fmall dice, with fome bacon cut in the fame form, and 
feafoned with nutmeg, pepper, and falt, fill your pyes 
withit, and flices of bacon and butter, clofe ic up and 
bake it, and liquor it with claret, butter, and {tripped 
tyme. | 

, To make Pres of Sweet-breads or Lamb ftones. 


Parboil them and blanch them,or raw {weetbreads or 


ftones,part them in halves,& feafon them with pepper, 


nutmeg,and falt,feafon them lightly;then put in thebot- 
tom of the pie fome {lices of interlarded bacon,& fome: 
R 4 pieces 





To make minced Pies or Chewits of a Leg of Veal, Neats- 
ss Tongue, Turkey, or Gapon, 


Take to a good leg of veal fix pound of beef-fuet, 
then take the leg of veal,bone it, parboil it, and mince 
it very fine when itis hot; mince the {uet by it felfve- 
ry fine alfo, then when they are cold mingle them to- 
gether, then feafon the meat witha pound of fliced 
dates,a pound of fugar, an ounce of nutmegs, an ounce 
_ of pepper,an ounce of cinamon, half an ounce of ginger, 
half a pint of verjuyce, a pint of rofe-water, a prefer- 
ved orange; or any peel fine minced, an ounce of cara- 
way-comfits, and fix pound of currans; put all thefe 

into a large tray with half2 handful offalt, ftir them 
up all together, and fill your pies, clofe them up, bake 
them,and being baked,ice them with double refined fu- 
gar, rofe-water, and butter. SRE 
-" Make the pafte witha peck hf flour, and two pound 
of butter boil'd in fair water or liquor, make it up. 
boiling hot. ; My. So) ee 
=< To make minced Pies of Mutton. | 
Take to a leg of mutton four pound of beef-fuet,bone 
the leg and cut itraw into {mall pieces,as alfo the iuer, 
mince them together very fine,and being minc’t feafon 
it with two pound of currans,two pound of raifins,two 
pound of prunes, an ounce of caraway feed, an ounce 
of nutmegs, an ounce of pepper, an ounce of cloves,and 
mace, and fix ounces of fale; ftir up all together, fill the 
pies, and bake them astheformer. °°.  =—*—s—«*T 


ev 


rs 


ae eile re eo Apes é ; co ll SS a ay ae Vt Be bel is Ce ue oc NP ie © 





To make minced Pies of Beef, 


‘Take a ftone or eight pound of beef,alfo eight pound 


of fuet, mince them very {mall, and put to them eight 
ounces of falt, two ounces of nutmegs, an ounce of pep- 
per, an ounce of cloves and mace, four pound of cur- 
rans, and four pound of raifins, ftir up all thefe toge- 
ther, and fill your pies. 


Minced in the French fafbton,called Pelipateor inEnglifh 
Petits, made of Veal, Pork, or Lamb, or any kind of Ve- 
nilon, Beef, Poultrey, or Fowl. 


Mince them with lard, and being minced, feafon 
them with falt, and a little nutmeg, mix the meat with 
fome pine-apple-feed, and a few grapes or goofeberri- 
es; fll the pies and bake them, being baked liquor 
them witha little gravy. 

Sometimes for variety in the Winter time, you 
may ufe currans inftead of grapes or goofeberries, and 
yolks of hard eggs minced among the meat. ! 

, Mizced Pies in the Italian Falhion. 

Parboil aleg of veal, and being cold mince it with 
beef-fuer, and feafon it with pepper, falt, and goofeber- 
ries ; mix with it a little verjuyce, currans, fugar, anda 
little faffronin powder. 

Forms of minced Pye, 





apes aid Myfery of Cookery, 233 





be fa ; S art . a 
i e+ ‘ 
J Sur. Ss a 


or pane sip? ey act - 
he plifht COOK: Or, - 
pred neesnind mocap et panei aca abate Dian oy * re . 


Accom 





Da 





To make an-extraordinary Pie, or a Bride Pye of feveral — 


- Compounds peing feveral diftink Pres on one bottom. 





Provide cock-ftones-and combs, or lamb-ftones,.and 
{weet-breads of veal, a little fet in hon water and cut 


to. pieces;alfo two or three ox-pallats blanch’t and flic’r, 
a-pint of oyfters,flic’t dates, a handful’of pine kernels a 
little quantity of broom buds,pickled,fome fineinterlar- 
ded bacon flic’t ; nine or ten chefnuts rofted and blancht — 
feafon them with falt,nutmeg,and fome large mace,and’ 


clofe itup with fome butter.For the caudle,beat up fome 
butter, with three yolks ofeggs, fome white or claret 
| wine, 


— 





 paddoelh ee ae Pe ues aa A Tae ie ian aeenn st ie eiige 
ae teed MepehGaokery: 05g 


wine, thejuyce of a lemon or two cut upthe lid, and 
pour on the lear, fhaking it well together; then lay on 
the meat, flic’t lemon, and pickled barberries, and co- 
ver it again, let thefe ingredients be putin the moddle 
or fcollops of the Pye. . | 
Several otherPies belong to the firft form,but you mut 
be fure to make the three fafhions proportionably an- 
{wering one the other;you may fet them on one bottom 
of pafte, which will be more convenient; or if you fet 
them feveral you may bake the middle one full of flour, 
it being bak’t and cold,take out the flour in the bottom, 
& put in live birds,or a {nake, which will feem ftrange 
to the beholders, which cut up the pie at the Fable. 
This is only for a Wedding to pafs. away the time. 
Now for the other pies you may fill them with feveral 
ingredients, as in one you may put oyfters, being par- 
boild and bearded,feafon them with large mace,pepper, 
fome beaten ginger;and falt, feafon them lightly and fill 
thePie,then lay on marrow & fome good butter, clofe it 
up and bake it. Then makea lear for it with white wine, 
the oyfter liquor, three or,.four oyfters bruifed in pieces 
_ tomakeit ftronger,but take out the pieces,and an onion, 
ot rub the bottom of the dith with a clove of garlick; it 
being boil'd,put in a piece of butter,with a lemon, fweet: 
herbs will be good boil’d in it, bound up fait together, 
cut up thelid, or makea hole to let the lear in, ec. 
~ Another you may make of prawns and cockles, being 
feafoned as the fir{t, but no marrow: a few pickled: . 
muthrooms, (if you have them) it. being baked, beat up. 
a piece of butter, a little vinegar, a flict nutmeg, and: 
the juyce of two or three oranges thick, and:pourit in- 
to the Pye. | 
A third you may make a Bird pie; take young Birds,as 
Jarks pull'd and drawn, anda forced meat to put ia 
hc aaimeraatla atti 








236 = The Accomplifot COOK: Or, 


bellies made of grated bread, fweet herbs minced very - 
~ fmall,beef-fuet,or marrow minced, almonds beat with 
a little cream to keep them from oyling, a little parmi- 
fan (or none ) or old cheefe ; feafon this meat with 
nutmeg, ginger, and falt, then mix them together,with - 
cream and eggs like a pudding, ftuff the larks with it, 
then feaion the larks with nutmeg, pepper, and falt,and 
lay them in the pie, put in fome butter, and {catter be- 
_ tween them pine-kernels,yolks of eggs and {weet herbs, 

~ the herbs and eggs being minced very {mall ; being ba- 
ked make a lear with the juyce of oranges and butter 
beat up thick, and fhaken well together. 

For another of the Pies, you may boil artichocks, 
and take only the bottoms for the Pie, cut them into 
quarters or lefs, and feafon them with nutmeg. Thus 
with feveral ingredients you may fill your other Pies. 


For the outmoft Pres they muft be Egg-Pres. 


Boil twenty eggs and mince them very {mall, being 
blanched, with twice the weight of them of beef-fuet 
fine minced alfo;. then have half'a pound of dates flic’t 
with a pound of raifins, and a pound of currans well 
wafhed and dryed, and half an ounce of cinamon fine 
beaten,and a little cloves and mace fine beaten, fugar a 
quarter of a pound, a little fale, a quarter of a pint of 
rofe-water, and as much verjuyce, and ftir and mingle 
all well together, and fill the pies, and clofe them, and 
bake them, they will not be above two hours a baking, 
and ferve them all feventeen upon one difh, or plate, 
and ice them, or fcrape fugar on them; every one of _ 
thefe Pies fhould have a tuft of pafte jagged on the top. 


To 





The Art end Mis of Cookery. 237 


To make Gaftards divers ways. be 

Take toa quart cream, ten eggs, halfa pound of fu- 
gar, half a quarter of an ounce of mace, half asmuch 
ginger beaten very fine, and a {poonful of falt,. ftrain 
them through a ftrainer; then the forms being finely dri- 
ed in the oven, fill them full onan even hearth, and bake 
them fair and white.draw them and difh them on a difh 
and plate ; then ftrow on them biskets red and white, 
ftick muskedines red and white, and {crape thereon 
double refined fugar, 

Make the pafte for thefe cuftards of apottle of fine _ 
flour,make it up with boiling liquor,and make itup ftiff. 


To make an Almond Cuftard 


Take two pound ofalmonds, blanch and beat them 
very fine with rofewater, then {train them with fome 
two quarts of cream,twenty whites of eggs,and a pound 
~ of double refined fugar; make the pafte as beforefaid, 
and bake it in a mild oven fine and white, garnifhit as 
betore and {crape fine fugar over all. 


To make a Cuftard without Eges, 


Take a pound of almonds,blanch and beat them with 
_ yofe-water into a -fine pafte, then put the {pawn or 
row ofaCarp or Pike to it,and beat them well together, 
with fome cloves, mace, and falt, the {pices being firft 
beaten, and fome ginger, {train them with fome fair 
{pring water, and put into the ftrained ftuff halfa pound 
of double refined fugar and a little faffron; when the 
pafte is dried and ready to fill, put into the bottom of 
the coffin fome flic’t dates,raifins of the fun ftoned, and 
fome boiled currans, fill them and bake them _; ae 
| aii baked - 











COO! Or, ps 


q ae < 
: 


baked, {crape {ugar on them. Be fure always to prick 
your cuftards or forms before you fet them.in the oven, 
_ Ifyou have no rowor {pawn; put rice flour inftead 


thereof. 





To make an extraordinary good Cake; 
Take halfa buthel of the beft flour you can get very 
finely fearfed,and lay it uponalarge Paftry board,make - 
a hole inthe midft thereof, and put to it three pound. 
of the beft butter you can get; with fourteen pound of 
currans finely picked and rubbed, three quarts of good 
new thick cream warm’d, two pound of fine fugar bea>> 
ten,threé pints of good new ale,barm or yeaft,four oun-. 
ces of cinamon'fine beaten and {earfed, alfoan ounce of 
beaten ginger, two ounces of nutmegs fine beaten and 
fearfed ; put in all rhefe materials together, and work . 
them up into an indifferent {tiff pafte, keep it warm till 
the oven be hot, then make it up and bake it, being ba:,. 
ked an hour and a half ice it, then take four pound of 
double refined fugar;beat it, and fearfe it, and put it in 
a deep clean {cowred skillet the quantity of a gallon; 
boil it to a candy height witha little rofe-water, then 
draw the cake,run it allover, and fet itinto the oven; 
tillit becandied; .. . 
To make a Gake otherways., =. 
_ Takea gallon of very fine flour and lay it on the paftry 
board, then ftrain three or four eggs with a pint of 
barm, and put it intoa hole made in the middle of the 
flour with two nutmegs finely beaten, an ounce of ci- 
namon,gnd an ounce of cloves and mace beaten fine alfo,y 
half'a pound of fugar,and a pint of cream ; put thefe in- 
to the flour with two {poonfuls of falt; and work it up’ 
good and ftiff then take half the pafte, and work three — 
pound of currans well picked & rubbed into it,then aS 
f : c 





STU ea ae Ga i iba 












“The Art and. Myftery of Co 
be Ark ad Myftery oy. 


the other part and divide it into two equal pieces,drive 
them out as broad as you wold have the cake, then lay _ 
one of the fheets of pafte ona fheet of paper, and upon 
that the half that hath the currans,and the other part on 
the top,clofe it up round, prick it, and bake its bein 
‘baked, ice it with butter, fugarjand rofe water, and det 
it again into the oven. © | F 


To make French Bread the beft way. 
Take a gallon of fine flour, and a pint of good new 
ale barm or yeaft,and put it to the flour, with the whites 
of fix new laid eggs well beaten ina difh,and mixt with 
the barm in the middle of the flour,alfo three {poonfuls 
of fine falt ; then warm fome milk and fair water, and 
put to it, and make ic up pretty ftiff, being well 
_ wrought and worked up,cover it inaboul or tray with — 
a warm cloth till your oven be hot; then make it up 
either in rouls, or fafhion it in little wooden difhes and : 
bakeit, being baked in a quick oven,chip it hot. : 


okery. — 


ll 





Section 


¢ 4 4: ha ge Pap ale SA, UC oar a 





ty hey apt ie 


Sain x. i, 
ue bake all manner of Curneld Fouts 


in Pyes,I arts, or made Difhesraw 
or preferved, as Quinces, WW, ardens, 
LP ears. Pi isis &e : 











To bake, @ Quince Pye, 

Ake fair Quinces; core and pare them very chirt, 
4 and put them in 2 Pye, then put in it two races of 
ace: flic’t, as much cinamon broken into bits, and 
{ome eight or ten whole cloves,lay them in the bottom 
of thes eye,and lay on the Quinces clofe packed, with as 
 mnuch fifferefined fugar as the Quinces weigh, clofe it 
~ upand bake it,and being well foaked the face of four z 
: or five hours; ice it. 





Ovherspast 
Fake a gallon of flour, a pound and a half of butter, 
oo fix eggs, thirty quinces, three pound of fugar, half an 
= ounce of cinamon, half an an ounce of ginger, half an 
ounce of cloves, and {ome rofe-water, make themin a 
Bre or Tart, and being baked ftew, on double refined 
lugar. | 
Otherways, 
Bake thefe Quinces raw, flic’t very sha Hf beaten’ 
‘ Cinamon,and the fame quantity of fugar,as before,either 
s mn ety patty-pan, difh, or im cold butter-pafte, fome- ‘ 














it by ~ 
ee 


[eve 





#8 
+ 
i 
™ 
EY 


__ Take Quincesand pretervé them, being firlt coated 





Ne 
#) 
S 
i 
AS 
oe 
ie) 
rt 
om a 
(a) 

ers 

9 

ot 
<s 

- 

3 

i. 
P= * 
OD 

en 

i, 

igs) 

= 
va 

1 

ct 
a3 

a 

Q. 

eal 

me 
me 
ca) 
= iL 
a 
D 
pre) 
Te 


ee 


sll 
SS 
a 


Pe ae ye ae 





» 








; 
< ee 
Be 


‘. 


the fyrrup they were firft boiledin, = 


,. Sela 
wat 
. 


“You may bake them in an earthen pot with fome 
claret-wine and fugar, and keep them for your ufe. 


To make a Trotter Pye of Quinces, Wardens, Pears, &c. 


- Take them either feverally or all together in-quar-. 
ters, or flic’c raw, if in quarters put fome whole ones 
amongft them, if flic’t beaten fpices, and a litele butter 
and fugar ; take to twelve quinces a pound of fugar,and 
a quarter ofa pound of butter, clofe it up and bake ie, 
and being bak’t cut itup and mafh the fruit to pieces,then 
put in {ome cream, and yolks of eggs beaten together, 
and put it into the Pye, ftir all together, and cut the co- 
ver into five or fix pieces like Lozenges,or three {quare, 


“and {crape on fugar. 


To make a Pippin Pye. 


Take thirty good large pippins,pare them very thin, 


-and make the Pye,then put in the pippins,thirty cloves, 


= | 


“ing, then iceit wich bucter, fugar, and rofe-water. — 


a quarter of an ounce of whole cinamon, and as much 
pared and flict, aquarcer of a pound of orangado, as 
much of lemon in facket, anda pound &half of refined 
fugar,clofe it up and bake it, it will ask four hours bak- 


To 












oe yt me + ia 8 4 . ‘i ch | eee ae ra Re 
_. The Art and Myftery of Cookery. ~ 243 


To make a Pippin Tart according to this form: 





Take fair pippins and pare them, then cut them in 
quarters,core them and ftew them,in claret-wine,whole - 
cinamon,and flic’t ginger ; ftew them halfan hour,then 
put them into a difh;and break them not,when they are 
cold,lay them one by one into the tart,then lay on fome 
Zreen cittern minced finall,candied orange or coriander; 
put on fugar and clofeit up, bake it, and ice it; then 
{crape on fugar and ferve it. | 


To make a Pippin Tart,either in Tart, Patty-Panor Dil: 

Take ten fair pippins, preferve them in whitewine, ©. 
fugar, whole cinamon, flic’rc ginger, and eight or ten. + 
cloves, being finely preferved and well coloured, lay. 
them ona cut tart of fhort pafte;orin place of preferv- 
ing you may bake them between two difhes in the o- 
ven for the forefaid ufe. 


. A made Difh of Pippins. 


_ ‘Fake pippins, pare and flice them, then boil them in’ 
| Sz clareg 


; . . \ Py j / 7 \ 
‘ P mia 
4 ~ <a 
* . . ¥ * * : \ i A oc 
‘ Fas oF ‘2 a ao. ™ cae id cal Dk 












Cee aes 


pipkin, or between two difhes with 
fome fugar, and beaten cina- 
-mon, when ‘tis. boiled good 
and thick, mafh it like marma- 
Jade, and_put ina difh of puff 

pafte or fhort pafte ;. acording 
to this form with a cut cover, 
and being baked ice it. 





— “claret-wine ina 


Ta preforve Pippins in flices. 


a Make pippins and flice them round with the coars or 
~~ kernels in, as thick asa half&crown piece, and fome 
lemon-peel amongft them in flices,or elfe cut like {mall 
lard,or orange peel firft boil’d and cut in the fame man- 
ners then make the fyrup weight for weight,and being 
‘ — ¢larified and {cummed clean, putin the pipins and boil 
them up quick; toa pound of fugar puta pint of fair 
water,or a pint of white-wine or claret,and make them 
of twocolours. ! 


te To make a Warden or a Pear Tart quartered, 
Take twenty good wardens,pare thém,and cut them 
in a tart, and put to them two pound of refined fugar, 
twenty whole cloves,a quarter of an ounce of cinamon 
broke into little bits,and three races of ginger pared and 
flic’t thin; then clofe up the tart and bake it,it will ask 
five hours baking,then ice it wich a quarter of a pound 
of double refined fugar, rofe-water, and butter. £ 


Other 


ee? A ra ‘: 
cy a URS ea 


SS ee UNE «ea ae 8 m » Bete eRe a 


rs ie 


_ The Art and Myfte 


uci al NE 95 





ryof Cookery. 248 Ne 


Other Tart of Warden; Quinces, or Pears. 





Firft bake them ina pot,then cut them in quarters,and 
coat them, put them ina tart made according to this 
form,clofe it up, and when it is baked, {crape on fugar. 


| To make a Tart of Green Peafe. 

Take green peafe and boil them tender, then pour ~~ 
them out into a cullender, feafon them with {affron, a; 
falr, and put fugar to them and fome {weet butter, then NS 
clofe itup and bake it almoft an hour,then draw it forth | 
of the oven and ice it, put ina little verjuyce, and {hake 
them well together,then {crape on fugar,and ferve it in, 


To make a Tart of Hips. | 


Take hips, cut them, and take out the feeds very 
clean, then wafh them and feafon them with fugar, ci- 
namon, and ginger, clofe the tart, bake it, ice it,{crape 
on fugar, and ferve it in. oe 





glee To make a Tart of Rice. 
Boilthe ricein milk or cream, being tender boil’d 
pour it into a difh,& feafon it with nutmeg, ginger,cina- 
: 3 , mon 






SeXy iS nie i Pests mr BITS 
ye as a oes 
we id 7 
e oy 
. 24 ¥ ey The » 
Siar E y ‘e @ 


- {crape on fugar. 






ot 


mon, pepper, falt, fugar, and the yolksof 


fix eggs, put 


_itin the tart with fome juyce of orange ; clofeit up and 


bake it,being baked {crape on fugar, and fo ferve it up. 


To make a Tart of Medlers. 


Take medlers that are rotten, ftrain them, and fet - 
them on a chaffing dith of coals, feafon them with fugar, 
cinamon, and ginger, put fome yolks of eggs to them, 
let ic boila little, and lay it in a cut tart 5 being baked 
To make a Cherry-Tart. 

- Fake out the ftones,and lay the cherries into the tart, 


_ with beaten cinamon, ginger, and fugar, thenclofe it 


up, bake it,and ice it; then make a firrup of muskedine, 
and damask water, and pour it into the tart, {crape on 


« 


~ fugar, and fo ferve it. 


To make a Stravberry-Fart. 


Wath the ftrawberries, and put them into the Tart, 
feafon them with cinamon,ginger, and a little red wine, 
then put on fugar, bake it halfan hour, ice it, {crape 
on fugar, and ferve it. YO 8 


To make a Taffety-Tart. | 
Firft wet the pafte with butter and cold water, roul 
it very thin, then lay apples in the lays, and between e- 
very lay of apples, ftrew fome fine fugar, and fome le- 
mon-peel cut very {mall,you may alfo put fome fennil- 


-feed to them; let them bake an hour or more, then 
ice them with rofe-water,fugar,and butter beaten toge- 


ther, and wafh them over. withthe fame, ftrew more 
fine {ugar on them, and put them into the oven again, 
being eriough ferve them hot or cold. . : 
Bes ees TR Mw a) Mid ne bad 0, : 





rhe ‘4 > 


and put it into a skillet of boiling liquor ; being tender . 
boil'd have a quart of cream boil’d with fome wholeci- 





ns 
Spee ies 


yess 





To make an Almond Tart. 


Strain beaten almonds with cream, yolks of eggs, fu- 


gar, cinamon, and ginger, boil ic thick, and fill your 
tart, being baked ice it. 


To make a Davsfon Tart. 


Boil them in wine, and ftrain them with cream, fu- : 
gar,cinamon, and ginger, boil ic thick, and fill your 
tart. 

To make a Spinage Tart of three colours, green, yellow, 
and white, 





Take two handfuls of young tender {pinage, wath it 


the. 


hamon,quarterd nutmeg,and a grain of musk;then {train 
7 4; 


‘ 


META NRRL Tr ee eI oO ty ey Ae ae Reman FRM UMA Ih Eh  e LT ol OL MURR GOS a IA OL NN Le dh 
r ~ J fe 


| oa The Art and Myftery of Cookery. i “247° 


ii he bk 
; ’ 









Bn Sang 1 date stalin 





eaten 23 





the cream, twelve yolks of eggs, and the boil 


‘fine dagar, boil ic over a chafing difht of todls, and ftir 
it thariccurdnot, ‘keep it tillthe tart be died in the 
oven, and difh it in the form of three’cc i :., 

white, angyeHOW.... ee ee 


. tet Lo.make Cream Tarts, oe te 


~'Thicken cream with muskefied Bisket byéad.and ferve 
it ina dith, ftick. wafers round about is, and flices of 
FE ee ee DECREE VER eee On aaaeael 
inthe middle a _prefer- 
ved orange with biskets, 


being of puff pafte. 

: Or you may boil quin- 
ces, wardens, pares, and pippinsin flices or quarters, 
and {train them into cream, as alfo thefe fruits, mela- 
cattons, necturnes, apricocks,. peaches, plumbs,or cher- 
ries, and make your tarts of thefe forms. ~/ K 





a 
To make a French Tart. 





248 -X9800T he Aeeomphifht COOK: Or, 
ae m, twelve yo'ks or eggs, and the boild fpinage — 
Gato a difh,with fome rofewater.a little fack.and fome 


the garnifh of the difh | 


Take a pound of almonds; blanch and beat them in- ) 


to fine pafte. in aftone mortar, with rofe-water, then 


beat the white breaft of a cold roaft turkey,being min- 
ced, and beat with ita pound ofdard minc’t, with the 
marrow of four bones, and a pound of butter, the juyce 
of three lemons, two pound of hard fugar, being fine 


beaten flicé awhole green piece ‘of citron tm fmall fli-_ 


ces,a quarter of a pound of piltaches, anid’the yolks of © 


eight or ten eggs,mingle all together, then make a pafte 
for it with cold butter, two or three eggs, and cold 


‘water, : {stan ee 


a 


a Pe SS ey hy 4 


aptisaiapse ti, jeanne serra 





‘The Art and Myftery of Cookery. 249 
ay To make a Quodling Pie. 7 
‘Take green quodlings and quodle them, peel them 
and put them again into the fame water, cover them 
clofe, and let them fimmer on embers till they be very 
sreen, then take them up and let them drain, pick out 
the nofes, and leave them onthe ftalks, then put them 
in apie, and put to them fine fugar, whole cinamon, 
flict ginger, alittle musk, and rofe-water, clofe them 
up with a cut cover, and affoon as it boils up in the o- 
ven, draw it, and ice it with rofe-water, butter, and 
fugar. : | , 

Or you may preferve them and -bake them ina 
difh with pafte, tart, or patty-pan. | 

To make a Difh in the Italian Fafbton, 

Take pleafant pears, flice them into thin flices, and 
put to them half as much fugar as they weigh, then 
mince fome candied citron and candied orange {miall, 
mixit with the pears,and lay them on a bottom of cold 
butter pafte in a patty-pan with fome fine beaten cina-. 
mon, lay on the fugar.and clofe itup, bake it, being 
baked, ice it with rofe-water, fine fugar, and butter. 


For the feveral Colours of Tarts. 

If to have them yellow,preferved quinces,apricocks, 
necturnes,and melacattons, boil them up in white-wine 
with fligar, and {train them: == = * 4 
~ Otherways, {trained yolks of eggs and cream. 

For green tarts take green quodlings, green prefer- . 
ved apricocks,green preferved plums, green grapes,and 
sreen goofeberrics.. | 
~ For red tarts, quinces, pippins, cherries, rasberries, 
barberries, red currans, red goofeberries, damfins, 
-. For black tarts, prunes, and many other berries pre- 


ferved. For 


te Sa Aas i up aed 2) C wt “4 igh RY ia cae litt A ta °F 5m arg ca OMT |) Aa Tarai tre : 74. SE 
7 : y oa ‘ t 0 ‘ 
t 





the cream and eggs, 


For white tarts, whites of eggs and cream, 
Ofall manner of tart-{tuff ftrained, that carries his 


colour black, as prunes, damfons, @¢. For lard of 
fet Tarts difhes, or patty-pans, | | 


Tart ftuff of damfons. 


Sey NER Ct 
Pbnhe) | ie te satel he ite 
aS ee a 






Ace mp 


5 ” 





Take a postle of damfons and good ripe apples, be- 
ing pared and cut into quarters, put them into an earth- 
enpot with alittle whole cinamon, flic’t ginger, and 


fugar, bake them and being cold ftrain them with fome - 


rofe-water, and boil the {tuff thick, ec. ; 
Other Tart ftuff that carries its colour black. | 
Take three pound of prunes, and eight fair pippins 


par'd andcor’d, ftew them together with fome claret 
wine, fome whole cinamon, flic’t ginger, a {prig of 


rofemary, fugar, anda clove or two, being well ftew’d . 
and cold, ftrain them with rofe-water, and fugar. 


To make other black Tart Stuff. 


2 ae 





Take twelve pound of prunes, and fixteen pound of — 


raifins, wafh them clean, and {tew them ina pot with 
water,boil them till they be very tender,and then ftrain 
them through a courfe {trainer ; feafon it with beaten 
ginger and {ugar, and give it a warmon the fire. 


Yellow Tart Stuff. 1 ae 
Take twelve yolks of eggs, beat them with 4 quart 


‘ofcream, and bake them ina foft ovens; being baked 


{train them with: fome fine fugar, rofe-water, musk, 
ambergriefe, and a little fack,or in place of baking, boil 


% | | White 


, 
i * 


' ‘The Art and Myftery of Cookery. 251 





White Tart-Stuff. | 
Make the white tart ftuff with cream, in all points 
as the yellow, and the fame feafoning. | 


Green Tart-Stuff. : 


Take fpinage boil’d, green peefe, green apricocks, * 
green plums quodled, peaches quodled, green necturnes 


quodled, goofeberries quodled, green forrel,, and the - 
juyce of green wheat. 


To bake Apricocks green. 

Take young green apricocks, fo tender that-you may 
thrufta pin through the ftone,fcald them and {crape the 
out fide, of putting them in water as you peel them till 
your tart be ready, then dry them and fill the tart with 
them, and lay on good ftore of fine fugar, clofe it up 
and bakeit, ice it, {crape.on fugar, and ferve it up. 


To bake Mellacattons. 

Take and wipe them clean, and put them ina pie 
made fcollop ways, or in fome other pretty work, fill 
the pie, and put them in whole with weight for weight 
in refined fugar, clofe it up and bakeit, being baked 
ice it, 

. Sometimes for change you may add to them fome 
chips or bits of whole cinamon, a few whole cloves, 
and {lic’t ginger. " ; 

: To preferve Apricocks, or any Plums green. 

Take apricocks when they are fo young and green, that 
you may puta needle through ftone and‘all,but all other 
plums may be taken green, and at the higheft growth, 
then put them in indifferent hot water to break them,& 
let them ftand clofe cover’d in that hot water till a ita 
3 skin 





OP eS ey ae Dealt dha ho See a 
” Me ~~ xe Pate Ve . y we 7 ‘ 
ss EE ak ’ : a 





bai me . it) < 
oe CL 


‘ oF on a 
6 ta iia Sia 
et DS RE 
Ek Pe 







3 ‘ oY a3 
: OTE” CMPayt pean ‘pe 2S or. . 
: is sae , . uti RE 
' pruhidine end sainah ena anetek pis intag esti SV STE a a 


The Accomplipt COOK: Or, 





Bee hag ; 

skin will come off with {craping, all this while they 
will look yellow;then put them into another skillet of 
hot water, and let them ftand covered until they turn. 
toa perfect green, then take them out, weigh them, 
take their weight in fugar and fomething more, and fo 
preferve them. Clarifie the fugar with the white of an~ 


egg, and fome water. . 
To preferve Apricocks being vipe. % 
Stone them, then weigh them-with fugar, and take 

weight for weight,pare them and ftrow on the fugar,let 
them ftand till the moifture of the apricocks hath wet 
the fugar, and ftandin a‘firrup : then fet them on a foft 
fire,not fuffering them to boil,till your fugar be all mel- 
ted;then boil them a pretty {pace for halfan hour, ftilt 
firring them in the firrup, then fet them by two hours, 
and bor them again till your firrup be thick, and your 
apricocks look clear, boil up the firrup higher, then 
take it off, andbeing cold put in the. apricocks intoa 
gally-pot or glafs, clofe them up with a clean paper, 
drid leather overall. Annan tas 

To preferve Peaches after the Venetian way, = 
- Take twenty young peaches, part them in two, and 
take out the {tones, then takeas much fugar as they 
weigh, and fome rofe-water, put in the peaches, and 
make a firrup that.it may {tand and ftick to your fingers, 
let them boil foftlya while, then lay them in a difh, 
and let them ftand in the fame two or three days, then 
fet your firrup on the fire, let it boil up, and then put 
in the peaches, andfo preferve them. = z 


i To preferve Mellacattons. 
Stone them arid'parboil them in water, then peel off 
the outward skin of them, they will boil as long as a 
ii: ag piece 


a The Art and Myftery of Cookery. 252 
piece of beef,and therefore you need not fear the break- 
ing of them; when they are boil’d tender,make firrup of 
them as you do of any other fruit, and keep them all 
the year. | : 
| To preferve Cherrtes. Ie 
Take a pound of the {malleft cherries, but let them 
be well coloured,boil them tender in a pint of fair wa- 
ter, then ftrain the liquor from the cherries and take 
two pound of other fair cherries, {tone them, and put 
them in your preferving-pan, with a laying of cherries 
and a laying of fugar, then pour the firrup of the other 
{trained cherries over them,and let them boilas faft ag 
maybe witha blazing fire,that the firruapmay boil over 
them ; when you fee that the firrup is of a good colour 
fomething thick,and begins tojelly, fet them a cooling, 
and being cold pot them, and fo keep them all the year. 

cy 

To preferve Damfins. 

Take damfins that are large and well coloured, (but 
not throw ripe, for then they will break) pick them 
clean and wipe them one by one ; then weigh them,and 
to every pound of damfins you muft take a pound of. . 
Barbary fugar,white & good,diflolved in halfa pint or 
more of fair water; boil it almoft to the height of a fir- 
rup, and then put in the damfins, keeping them with a 
continual {cuming and ftirring, fo let them boil ona 
gentle fire tillthey be enough, thentake them off and: 
keep them all the year. } / 


To preferve Grapes as green as Grafs. 
"Take grapes very green,{tone them and cut them into 
little bunches,then take the like quantity of refin'd {ugar 
finely beaten, & {trew arow of {ugar in your preferving 
pan, and a lay of grapes upon it, then ftrow on fome 
| : 3 more 











254 ~~» The Accomplifbt COOK: Or, 


- more fugar upon them, put tothem four our or five 
{poonfuls of fair water, and boil chem up as faft as you 
can. ‘ gai | ; 
To preferve Barberries. a 
Take barberries very-fair and well coloured,pick out 
the ftones,weigh them,and to every. ounce of barberries 
take three ounce of hard fugar, half an ounce of pulp of 
barberries,and an ounce of red rofe-water to diflolve the 
fugar ; boil it toa firrup, then put in the barberries,and 
let them boil a quarter of an our,then take them up,and 
being cool pot them,and they will keep their colour all 
the year. Thus you may preferve red currans, &c: 











To preferve Goofeberries green. bite 
Take fome of the largeft goofeberries that are called 
Gafcoyn goofeberries, fet a pan of water on the fire, 
and when it is lukewarm put in the berries, and cover 
them clofe,keep them warm half an hour; then have an- 
other pofnet of warm water,put them into that, in like 
fort quoddle them three times over in hot water till 
they look green; then pour them into afieve, let all 
the water.run from them,and put them to as much cla- 
rified fugar-as will cover them,let them fimmer leifurely 
clofe covered,then your goofeberries will look as green 
as leek blades,let them {tand fimmering in that firrup 
for an hour,then take them off the fire,and let the firrup 
“‘ftand tillit be cold,then warm them once or twice,take 
them up, and let the firrup boil by it felf, pot them, 
and keep them... 
| , To preferve Rasberries. 
Take fair ripe rasberries,(but not over ripe)pick them 
from the ftalk,then take weight for weight of double re- 
fined fugar,and the juyce of rasberries;to a pound of raf- 
berries take a quarter of a pint of rafpafsjuyce, and i. 
iis | muct 


7 


Pee ne eee Vee ASD EP) Met 6 Ope MISA al aS ahaa F 
i * e ie shoes 





~The Art and Myftery of Cookery. 


much of fair water, boil up the fugar and liquor, and 
make the firrup,fcum it,and put in the rafpafs,ftir them 
into the firrup,and boil them not too much; being pre- 


ferved take them up, and boil the firrup by it felf, not. 


too long, it will keepthecolour; being cold,pot them 
and keep them. Thus you may alfo preferve {trawber- 
pies. > bors | oh bes op 
The time to preferve Green Frusts 
Goofeberries muft be taken about Whitfuntide,as you 


fee them in bignefs,the long goofeberry will be fooner _ 


than the red; the white wheat plum,whichis ever ripe 
in Wheat harveft, muft be taken in the midft of Fuly, 
the pear plum in the midit of Augu/?, the peach and pip- 
pinabout Barthclomew-tide, or a little before ; the grape 
in the firft week of September.Note that to all your green 
fruits in general that you will preferve in firup,you muft 


take to every pound of fruit,a pound and two ounces of © 
fugar,and a grain of musk; your plum,pippin,and peach — 


will have three quarters of an hour boiling, or rather 
more, and that very foftly, keep the fruit as wholeas 
you. can; your grapes and goofeberries muft boil half 
an hour fomething taft,and they will be the fuller.Note 
alfo, that to all your Conferves you take the full weight 
of fugar, then take twoskillets of water,and when they 
are {calding hot put the fruits firftinto one of them,and 
when that grows cold put them in the other, changing 


them till they be about to peel, then peel them,and af- , 


terwards fettle them in the fame water till they look 
green, then take them and put them into fugar firrup, 
and fo let them gently boil till they come to a jelly s let 
them f{tand therein a quarter of anhour, then put them 
into a potand keep them. 3 


Section 


255 





yout te ; 


| Section XI. sea 


eth’ 





To make all manner of made Difk 
with or without Pafle. 





: To make a Pafte for a Pie. Bee: 
Deus to a gallon of flour a pound of butter,boil it 
in fair waterjand make the pafteup quick. 





To make cool Butter Pajte for Patty-Pans or Pafties. : 
Take to every peck of flour five pound of butter,the 
whites of fix eggs,and work it well together with cold 


{pring water ; you muft beftow a great deal of pains,and 
but little water, or you put out the millerseyes. ‘This 


pafte is good only for patty-pan and hoge 
Sometimes for this pafte put in 
éggs, and but two whites, and fix pound of butter. 


| To make Pafte for thin bak'd Meats. . 

The pafte for your thin and ftanding bak’d meats 
muft be made with boiling water, then put to every 
peck of flour two pound of butter, but lec your butter 
boil firft in your liquor. priate 


‘i - Tomake Cuftard Pafte: i 


_ Leritbe only boiling water and flour without butter, 
or put fugar to itywhich will add to the ftifinefs of it,8z 


, 


thus’ 


ut eight yolks of 





“The drt ay Myers of Cock eiyh 264 
fis Tikewife all Bes for Cuts and Os angado Tat ts,or 
fuch like. | 


Pafte for made Dilhes i in the Summer. ey 
-Taketoa gallon of flour three pound of butter, eight 
yolks of eggssand a pint of-cream or almond milk,work 
up the butter and eggs dry into the flour,then put cream 
to it, and make it pretty {tiff 7 


Paffe Royal for ate Difhes. 

Take to.a gallon of flouria.pound of fugar,.a quart of 
almond milk, apound .and bal lfof butter, anda little 
faffron,work wu upall cold togther,with fome beaten. cina- 
mon, two or three eggs,rofe-water, and agrain of am- 
bergriefe and musk. 

Otherways, é 
Take a pottle of four,halfa pound of Heide fix yolks 
of eggs,a pint of cream, a quarter of a pound of ugar; 
and fome fine beaten cinamon, and work up all cold. 


To Ny Pafte for Lent for mide Difhes. 
Take a quart of flour,make it up with almond- milk; 
halfa pound of butter, and.fome {aftron. a: 
To make Puff-Pafte divers ways: 
The Firjt Way. 
Tike a pottle of flour, mix i it with cold water half a. 


pound of burter,and the whites of five eggs; mix them 
to- 





together very welland ftiff, then roul it outvery thin, 
and put flour under it and over it, then take near a 
pound of butter, and Jay it in bits all over, double ic 
in five or {tx doubles, this being done roul it out the 
fecond time, and ferve itas atthe firft, then roul it out 
and cut it into what form, or for what ufe you pleafe; 


you need not’ fear the-curle, for it will divide it as’ 
often as you double it, which ten or twelve times is e-’ 


nough forany ufe. _ - ds ce 89 
The fecond way. ea 
Take a quart of flour, anda pound and a half of but- 


ter, work the half pound of butter diy into the flour, 
then put threeor four eggs to it, andasmuch cold wa- 


ter as will make it leith pafte, work it ina piece of a 


' footlong, then ftrew a little four on the table, take it: 
by the end, and. beat ic till ie ftretch to be long, then | 


put the ends together, and beat itagain, and fo do five 
or fix times, then work it up round, and roul it up 
broad; then beat your pound of butter with 2 rouling 
pin that it may be little, take little bits chereof,and ftick 
it all over the pafte,fold'up your pafte clofe, and coaft 
it down with your rouliae-pinjroul itout again, and fo 
do five ordix tines; then ufeitas you will, 
SS hei phd pay! 1 287 Os 4 

Break two eggsinto three pints of four,make it with 
cold water androul it out pretty thick and {quare,then 
take fo. much burter as pafte, lay it in ranks, and divide 


’ 


your butter infive pieces; that you may Jay itonat five , 
feveral times,rou? your pate very: broad,and flick one’ 


part of the buster. in litele’pieces‘all over your patte, 
then throw a handful offeurlightly on, fold up your 
pafte and beat. it with a rowling-pin, fo roul it out 
again, thus dove times,’ and make it wpicd © 


c 
7 i 


a 


Nie Geo : : ; ‘@ a Rie. emis 
6 . dik 2 ) hu ce Gow aoe re > 
962 The Acc t¢COOK: Or, 
a 





moos bag » RY AY 


¢ = yPr* PS ae - 7, ie os Se aay, Mn ee aa Pew Pe) 2 aa wey toy Sen 0 3" wel " ALAR I e' 1 She! ay 2 5 fatal gOS) aa De + a: 
lip tee es ae re) % Len 
ee | & cz i ¥ he. 4 ¢ . U 
7 oe athe edicts eeancae cs 


So ti sr S 





ra ay ay Sy nay tete age OR RS, 


____ The Art and Myftery of Cookery. 263 


, 


woo so) 0 The fourth way, 


Take to a quart of flour four whites and but two 


yolks of eggs; and make it up with as much cream as 
will make irup pretty {tiff pafte, then roul it out, and 
beat three quarters of 4 pound of butter of equal hard- 
ne{s of the pafte,lay iton the pafte in little bits at ten 
feveral times; drive out your pafte always one way; 
and being made, ufe it as you will: 

~ Work up a quart of flour with half'a pound of but* 
ter, three whites of eggs, and fome fair {pring waters 
make it a pretty {tiff pafte, and driveit out, then beat 
half a pound of more butter of equal hardnefs of the 
pafte, and lay it on the pafte in little bits at three feve: 
ral'times,roul it out,and ufe it for what ufe you pleafe: 

Drive the pafte out every time very thin: 


A made Dilh or Florentine of any kind of Tongue 

in Difh; Pye, or Patty-pan. , 
- "Take?a frefh neats tongue, boil it tender and blanch 
it, being cold; cut itinto litttle. {quare bits as big as a 
nutmeg, and lard it wich very {mall lard, then have a- 
nother tongue raw; take off the skin, and mince it witli 
beef-firet; then lay on one half of it in the difh or pat- 
ty pan upon a fheet of pafte ; then lay on the tongue be- 


ing larded and finely feafoned with nutmeg; pepper; 


and falt; and with the other minced tongue put grated 
bread toit, fome yolks of raw eggs, fome {weet herbs 
minced fmiall, and made up into balls as big as a wal- 
nut,lay them on the other tongue; with fome chefnuts; 
marrow, large mace, fome grapes; goofeberries; or 
barberries,fome flices of interlarded bacon and butter; 

| 3 clofe 


SS eg 



















May 


z 





a : Ps semiatlimataimsasnd 
oe Si Ue 
> a 5 


The OK: Or, > 


verjuyce, beaten butter,and the yo 
eggs {trained with the verjuyce. >. . 
| A made Difh of Tongues otherways a 
Take neats-tongues or frraller tamuce bone : 
der,and flice them thin,then feafon them with nutn 
pepper, beaten cinamon; falt, and fome ginger, fe 


eo tA 


afon. 
them lightly, and lay them inadifh on a bottomor 


Iks of three 


5 





fheet of pafte mingled with fome currans, marrow, 
Jargemace, dates, {lic’t lemon, grapes, barberries, or - 
soofeberries and butter, clofe up the difh, and being - 
almoft baked, liquor it with white wine, butter, and 
{cgar, andiceit. ANREP ES 
‘Made Difh in Pafte of two Rabits, with feet liguor. 
Take the rabits, flay them, draw them and cut them 
into {mall pieces as big asa walnut, then wafh and dry 
them with a clean cloth, and feafon them with pepper, 
nutineg, and falt; lay them on a bottom of pafte, al- 
fo Jay on them dates, preferved lettice ftalks, marrow, 
large mace, grapes, and {lic’t orange or lemon, put but- 
ter to it, clofe it up and bakeit,being baked, liquor it 
with fugar, white-wine and butter ; or in place of wine, 
grape-verjuyce, and {trained yolks of raw eggs, 
In winter bake them with currans, prunes, skirrets, 
raifins of the fun, ec. Tare Cy tele py at 


A made Difh of Florentine, ow a Partridge or Capon. 
'. Being roafted and mincedvery {mall with as much: 
beef-marrow,put to it two ounces of orangado minced 
fmall with as much green citron minced alfo,feafon the 
meat with a little beaten cloves, mace, nutmeg, falt,. 
and fugar, mix all together, and bake ir in puff pafte 5. 
when it is baked, open it, and put in halfa grain of 
wiusk or ambergriefe, diflolved with a little POOR 
! ) a get 










RE SE 


= : " ”e Art and Myfrery of Cool 
and the juyce of oranges, ftir all together amongft the 


meat, cover it again, and ferve it to the table. 


as x 


ery. 265 


- To make a Florentine, or Dih, without Pafte, or on Pafte. 

Take a leg of mutton or veal, {have it into thin flices, 
and mingle it with fome {weet herbs, as fweet marjo- 
ram, tyme, favory, parfley, and rofemary, being min- 
ced very fmall, a clove of garlick, fome beaten nutmeg, 
pepper, a minced onion, fome grated manchet, and 
three or four yolks ofraw eggs, mix all together with 
a little falt, fome thin flices of interlarded bacon, and 
fome ofter-liquor, lay the meat round the difh on a 
theet of pafte, or in the difh without pafte, bake it, and 
being biked, {tick bay leaves round the dith, 


Wa 7 





To bake Potatoes, Artichocks in a Dih, Pye,or Patty-pan 
either in Pajfte, or little Pafties. 

Take any of thefé roots, and boil them in fair water, 

but put them not in till the water boils, being tender 

| 3 : boil'd 


(hed Vi ae AE Se si OL ene Wiese it eyo at, |S BOL Rta ee Rie Pile ‘ee 


- Boil’d, blanch themyand feafon them wi 


quartern of fine fugar, and a little falt; then bake it on — 





a fheet of pafteon a difh without a cover,in a very foft — 
oven,being fine and green baked, ftick is with prefer- 


ved barberries, or ftrow on red and white biskets, or 
yed and white muskedines, and:{crape on fin€ fugar. 


A made Dih of Spinage atherways, 5 aula 


Take a pound of fat and-wellirelifhed cheefey:anda 


; : pound» 


} 
: 
4 


q 
i 
: 






OO ON is ME a Gs i aa 
ee ee : 


The Art and Myftery 


pound of cheefe curds, ftamp them ina mortar with — 

fome fugar, then put ina pint of juyce of {pinage, a 
pint of cream, ten eggs,cinamon, pepper, nutmeg, and 
cloves, make your difh without a cover, according to 
this form, being baked ice it. | 





ie EE iy RNs a ac NM a gif 





W; 
J 





ei 


| To make a made Dib of Barberries. 

~ Take a good quantity of them and boil them with 
claret-wine, rofe-water and fugar, being boil’d very 
thick, {train them, and put them ona bottom of puff 
pafteinadifh, or fhort fine pafte made of {ugar, fine 
flour, cold butter, and cold water,and a cut cover of the 
fame pafte, bake it andice it, and caft bisket onit, but 
before you Jay on the iced cover, ftick it with raw 
barberries in the pulp or ftuff- : 


To make a Peafecod Dib, in Puff Pafte. , 
Take a pound ofalmonds,and a quarter of a pound of 
fugar, beat the almonds finely to a pafte with fome 
rofe-water, then beat the fugar among{t them, mingle 
fome fweet butter with it, and make this ftuff up in 
puff pafte like peafecods, bake them upon papers, and 
being baked, ice it with rofe-water, butter, and fine fu- ; 


* 













ees. 4M i oe a 7 4 
ene Pee 
j 3 ee BM 
ya ‘pt any ~~ nd Or 


Gi this fafhion you may make peafecod ftuff of pre- 


oa 


_ ferved quinces, pippins, pears, or preferved plums in 
putt pate Yura omen 33 GRR 
Made Difbes of Frogs inthe Italian Fafhton, . 

Take the thighs and fry them in clarified butter,then 
have flices of falt Eels watered, flay’d,bon’d,boil’d, and 
cold,flice them in thin flices,and feafon both with pep- 
per, nutmeg,and ginger, lay butter on your pafte, and 
lay arank of frog, andarank of Eel, fome currans, 


oofeberries or grapes, raifins, pine-apple feeds, juyce - 


of orange, fugar, and bucters thus do three times, 
clofe up your difh, and being baked ice it. | 


Make your pafte of almond milk,flour, butter,yolks — 


of eggs, and fugar. 
- Intheforefaid difh you may add fryed onions, yolks 


of hard eggs,cheefe-curds,almond-pafte,or grated cheefe © 


To make amade Dith of Mavrow.- 

Take the marrow of two or three marrow-bones, 
cutit into pieces like great fquare dice, and put to ita 
penny manchet grated fine,fome flic’t dates,halfa quar- 
tern of currans,a little cream, rofted wardens, pippins 


or quinces flic’t,and two or three yolks of raw eggs, fea- 


fon them with cinamon, ginger, and fugar, and mingle 
alltogether, ee rer ee 
ve ~ A made Difh of Rice in Puff Pafte.. ah 
Boil your rice in fair water very tender, {cum it,and 
being boil’d putit in adifh,then put to it-butter, fugar, 
nutmeg, falt, rofe-water, andthe yolks of fix or eight 
eggs, put ic inadith, of puff pafte,clofe it up and bake 
_ it, being baked, ice it, and cafte on red and white bis- 
kéts, ‘and {craping {hear ee 
~ Sometimes for:change you may add boil'd currans 


and beaten cinanion, and leave out nutmeg. 


. . Other- 
; Neo adighs 














a ee ial) ee 
pa cach 


i ~ Otherways of Almona-P afte, and borled Rice, 
Mix all together with fome cream, rofe-water, fu- 


gar, cinamon, yolks of eggs, falt, fome boil’d currans, 


and butter; clofe it up and bake it in puff-pafte, ice it, 


and cafton red and white biskets and fcrape on fugar: 


 Otherways a Made Difh of Rice and Pafte. 


Wath the rice clean, and boil it in cream till it be 
fomewhat thick, then put it out intoa difh, and put to 
it fome fugar, butter, fix or eight yolks of of eggs, bea- 
ten cinamon, flic’t dates, currans, rofe-water, and falt, 
mix all together,and bake it in puff pafte or {hort pafte, 
being baked ice it, and caft biskets on it. 


To make a made Dilh of Rice, Flour, and Gream. 
Take half a pound of rice,duft and pick it clean,then 
wath it, dry it, lay it abroad in a difh as thin as you can 
or dry it in a temperate oven, being well dried, rub it, 
and beat it in a mortar till it be as fine as flour; then 
take a pint of good thick cream,the whites of three new 
laid eggs, well beaten together, and a little rofe-water, 


fetiton a foft fire, and boil it till it be very thick, then 


put it ina platter and let it ftand till it be cold, then 
{lice it out like leach, caft fome bisket upon it, and fo 
ferve it. . 
To make a made Difh of Rice, Prunes, and Raifins. 
Take a pound of prunes, and as many raifins 
of the fun, pick and wafh them, then boil them 
with water and wine, of éach a like quantity ; 
when you firft fet them on the fire, put rice flour 
to them, being tender boil’d ftrain them with half 
a pound of fugar, and fome rofe-water, then ftir 
the ftuff till it be thick like leach, put itin a little 
. | €ar- 


Nene wire fe 
__The Art and Myftery of Cookery. 269 


{ 








arse 


en 
it, 


and caft 





n. pan,being cold fice it, difh 
~ white bisket onit. Fas: i 
-_, Tomake amade Diph of Blanchmanger, 


earthen. 


Take a piat of cream, the whitesiof fx new laid eggs, 


and fome fugar; fetthem over a foft fire ina skillet 
and ftir it continually till it be good and thick, then 
{train it, and being cold,difh it on a puft-pafte bottom 


with a cut cover, and caft biskets‘on it. rm, 
A made Dio of Cuftard fiuff, called an Artichock Di fh. 


Boil cuftard ftuffina clean {cowred skillet,ftir it con- 
tinually, till ic be fomething thick,then put it in a clean 
{trainer, and let it drain in a dith, ftrain it with a little 
musk or ambergriefe, then bake.a {tar of puff pafte on 
a paper, being baked take ic off the paper, and put it in 






a difh for your ftuff, then have lozenges alfo ready ba- 


ked_ of puff pafte, {tick itround with them, and ferape 
on fine fugar. | | bite 
Agmade Dith of Butter andeggs. 
Take the yolks of twenty four eggs, and {train them 
with cinamon, fugar, and falt; then put melted butter 
to them, fome fine minced pippins, and minced citron, 
put it on your dith of pafte, and put flices of citron 
round about it,bar it with puff pafte, and the bottom al+ 
fo, or fhort pafte in. the bottom. . 


To make a made difh of Gurds. | 
Take fome tender curds, wring the wehy from them 


very well,then pbt to them tworaw eggs,currans,fweet 


butter,rofe-water, cinamon, fugar, and mingle all toge- 
ther,thea make a fine pafte with flour,yolks of egs,rofe- 
water,&cother water, fugar, (affron, and buctter, wroughe 
i te is 


ty r *) 
’ ha Cone ft 






9) ~ By t q tra hea 
y < * 
Pe 
ae 
oon “ 


i j e<'* 
‘ oo ar aa 
> 





Art and Myftery of Cookery. 27% 
upcold,bake it eitherin this pafte or in puff-pafte,being 
baked ice it, with rofe-water, fugar, and butter. 


. Tomake a Pafte of Violets, Gowflips, Burrage, Bu- 
-.- glofs, Rofemary-Flowers, &c. wt 
» Take; any of thefe flowers, pick the beft of them, 
and ftamp-them in a {tone mortar, then take double re- 
fined fugar, and boil it toa candy height with as much 
rofewater as will meltit, ftir it continually in the boi- 
ling, and being boiled thick, caft icinto lumps upona 
pye plate, whenit is cold; box them, and keep.them all 
the year in.a f{tove. 
To make the Portugal Tarts for banqueting. 

Take a pound of marchpane pafte being finely beaten, — 
and put into ita grain of musk,{tx fpoontuls of rofe-wa- 
ter, and the weight of a groat_ of Orris Powder, boil 
all on a chaffing dith of coals till it be fomething ftiff; 
then take the whites of two eggs, beaten'to froth, put 
them into it,and boil it again a litrle,let it and till it be 
cold, mould it,and roul itourthin; then'take a pound — 
more of almond-pafte unboil’d, and put to it four oun- 
ces of caraway-feed, a grain of musk, and ‘three drops — 
-of oyl of lemons,roul the pafte into {mall rouls‘as big 
as walnuts, and lay thefe balls into the firftinade pafte, 
flat them down like puffs with your thumbs a lirrle 
like figs and bake them upon marchpane wafers. 





To make Marchpane. 

Take two pound of'almonds blanch’t and beaten tna 
{tone mortar,till they begin to come toa finé pafte,then 
take a pound of fifted fugar, ‘put it in the mortar with 
rhe almonds,and make ir into a perfect pafte, putting 
toitnow and then in the beating of it a fpoonful of 
rofe-water,to keepit from oyling;when you have bear 
i ; iC 













puff pafte, drive it 
g asa charger, and — 
fetan edge about it.as you © 
, doupona quodling tart, and — 
~. ¥ a bottom of wafers under it, 
\} thus bake it in anoven or — 
4 baking pan; when you fee it — 
fis white, hard, and dry,take — 
“itout, and ice it withrofe- — 
water and fugar,being made — 
~oas thick as butter for frit- © 
ters,to {pread iton with a — 
Aeitoand wing feather,and put it into 
the oven agains when you feeit rife high, thentakeit — 
out and garnifh it with fome pretty conceits made of — 
the fame ftuff, ftick long comfets upright on it, and fo 
‘ferve it... | ~ 
i To. make Gollops like Bacon of Marchpane. 
Take fomeof your Marchpane pafte and work it 
with red {anders till it bered, then roula broad fheet — 
of white marchpane pafte,and a fheet of red pafte,three — 
of white, and four of red, lay them one upon another, 
dry it, cut it overthwart, and it will look likecol- 
lops of bacon. ) | 
To make Almond Bread. 
Take almonds,and lay them in water all night, blanch ~ 
them and {lice them,take to every pound of almonds a 
pound of fine fugar finely beat,& mingle them together, 
then beat the. whites of 3 eggs to a high froth, & mix 
-§t well with the almonds & fugar;then have fome plates 
and {trew fome flour on them, lay waferson them and — 
almonds with edges upwards, lay them as round as you — 
can, and fcrape alittle fugar on them when they are 
ready to fet.in the oven,which muft not be fo hot as to 
a - CQ.0UL 



















Se nS IER ee dN AM eoonr Ltt 
Co), 7 i ain AM is nada as a , ts 
iS Hea Paris 
fo a 

= 


The Art and Myftery of 








lour white paper; being a little baked take them out, 
fetthem on aplate, then put them in again, and keep, — 


them ina ftove. a 7 aki ; 

nat To make Almond Bisket. \.... Aad 

Take the whites of four new laid eggs and two yolks, 
beat them together very well for an hour, -then have in 
readinefs a quarter of a pound of the beft almonds ‘blan- 
ched in cold water,beat them very {mall withrofewater. 
to keep them from oiling,then have a pound of the beft, 
loaf fugar finely beaten,beat it in the eggs a while,then: 
put in the almonds, and five or fix, {poonfuls of fine: 
flour,fo bake them on paper,plates,or wafers;then have 
a lictle fine fugar in a piece of tiffany, duft them over, 
as they go into the oyen,and bake them as you do bisket. 


$i To make Almond-Cakes.. ie 
Takea pound of almonds,blanch them and beat them. 
very {mal in a little rofe-water. where fome musk hath, 
been fteeped, put a pound of fugar to them fine beaten, 
and four yolks of eggs, but firft beat the {ugar and the 
eggs well together, then put them to the almonds and, 
rofe-water, and lay the cakes on wafers by halt {poon-. 
fuls, fet them into an oven after manchet 1s baked. 


3 - . To make Almond-Cakes otherways. cs 
Take a pound of the beft Jordan almonds,blanch them 
in cold water as you do marchpane,. being blanched 
wipe them dry ina clean cloth,& cut away all the rctten 
from them,then pound them in a ftone-motar,& fome- 
times in the beating put in a fpoonful of rofe-water 
wherein you mutt {teep fome musk ; when they are bea- 
ten {mall mix the almonds with a pound of refined fugar 
beaten and fearfed; then put the {tuff on a chafing-difhef 
coals in a made difh,keep it ftirring, and beat the Whites 
Oi 









ipo 


ae hal bi 
é' Accomplifit COOK: Or; 












of feven epg? all to’ froth;” put it into the fuffand mi 


it very re Sgecnae ara it On a white! Paper, putit 
on plates, and bake them in, an oven 3, but they muft’ — 
notbe coloyred. : 


; au wort bry Orbs SRT: 


ake shite dmbcerile Cakes 
“Fake the pureft refined {ugar that can be got, beatit 
and fearfe it’s ‘then have fix new: laid eggs, and beat’ 
them into a froth, take the frothas it Filer anee debe? 
it into the fiigar by little and little,grinding itftill round 
ina marble‘mortar and peftle, tillic be throughly moi- 
ftened, and wrought thin enough to drop on platessthen 
put in fome ambergriefe, a little crvet, and fome anni-’ 
feeds well picked,then take your pie plates,wipe them, 
_ butter them, and drop the fluff on them witha {poon 
_ in form of foun a ut them into a very mild.oven 
and when you feethem bi hard and rife a litcle; take 
them outand keep them for ufe. ee 
cS Tolmake Sygar-Gakes or Fambals, 
: Take two pound of flour, dry it; and feafon it very 
fine, then take’ a pound ofloaffagar; beat it very fine; 
and fearfe it,mingle your flour and fugar very well;then 
takea’pound and a half of fweer ‘butter, wafh out the 
falt and break it into bits.into the flour.and fugar, then 
take the yolks of four new laid eggs,four or five fpoon- 
fuls of fack, and four fpoonfuls of creain, beatalf thefe 
together, put them into the flour, and work it upinto 
pafte, make them into what fathton you ’pleafe; lay 
them upon papers or plates,and put them into.the ove 
be careful of them,for a very little thing bakes them. _ 
| snot 10 Deg aaah Se meg © SU AES RTE T2 
‘Take a pound of fine fagar,being finely beat, and the 
yolks of four new laid’ eggs; ‘ar da grain of musk, 2 
| thimble 


ee 
‘SRE Blows 


~ 






‘ 4g Sa L et 


ies) 0 


- 





and Myftery of Cookery. 275 


thimble full of caraway feed fearfed, a little gum dra- 
gon fteeped in rofe-water,and fix {poonfuls of fine flour 
_ beat all thefe in a thin pafte a little ftiffer then butter, 
then run icthrough a butter-{quirt of two or three ells 
long bigger then a wheat ftraw, and let them dry upon 
fheets of paper a quarter of an hour, then tie them in 
knots or what pretty fafhion you pleafe,and when they 
be dry, boil them in rofe- water and fugar 5 it is an ex- 
cellent fort of banqueting. | 
To make Fambals, 

Take a pint of fine wheat flour,the yolks of three or 
four new laid eggs, three or four {poonfuls of fweet 
cream, afew annifeeds, and fome cold butter, make it 
into pafte, and roulit into long rouls, as big asa little 
arrow, make them into divers knots, then boil them in. 
fair water like fimnels 3 bake them, and being baked, 

box. them and keep them‘in a ftove. Thus you may ufe 


t 


them, and keep them all the year. 








Neige 4 ‘To make Sugar Plate. is 
Take double refined fugar, fiftit very finall chrough 
a‘fine fear{e, then'take-the white of'an egg, gum dra- 
gon, and rofe-water, wet it, and beat it in a mortar 
till youare able to mouldit, but wet itnot to much at 
the firft. If you willcolour it, and the colour be of a 
watry fubftance,put it in with the rofe-water, ifa pow- 
. der, mix it with your fugar before you wet it; when 
- you have beat it in the mortar, and that. it is all wet, 
and your colour well mixt in every place,then mould it 
aid make it into what form you pleafe. 1-910: 
TSP ONS .1k20: SO 7 : 1H ei thie 
"Yo make Muskedives called Rifing Comfits or Vif. 
Me Mean ols One Gompigioiod 20) ARaL 
Take half a‘pound of refined fugary being Peel 
ear 


*~ 








baw nya Seam " * a : AP 
se ee 


2976 = The Accomplifot COOK: Or, 
fear fed,put into it two grains of musk; a grain of civet> 
two grains of ambergriefe, anda thimble full of white 
orris powder, beat all thefe with gum-dragon {teeped. 
in rofe-water 3 thenroul itas thin as you can,and cut it 
into little loggnges with your iging-iron,and {tow them’ 
in {ome warm oven or ftove; then box them and keep 








them all the year. 
To make Grakunels. - aN le 
Take half a pound of fine flour dryed and fearfed,and 
as much fine fugar fearfed, mingled with a fpoonfull of 
coriander- feed bruifed,and two ounces of butter rubbed; 
amongft the flour and fugar, wet it with the yolks of 
two eggs, half'a {poonful of white-rofe-water, and two 
{poonfuls of cream, or.as much as will wet it, work the. 
patte till ic be foft and limber to roul and work, then 
roul it very thin, and cut them round by little plats ,lay 
them upon buttered papers, and’ when they go into the, 
oven, prick them, and wath the tops with the yolk of 
anegg, beaten and made thin with rofe-water or fait 
water; they will give with keeping, therfore-before 
they are eaten they mutt be dried in a warm oven to- 
make them crifp. UL ISN 
| To make Mackerooms. 
‘Take a pound ofthe fineft ugar; and a pound of the 
beft Jordan-almonds; {teep them in cold water,: blanch’. 
them dnd pick-out the {pots : then beat them toa per- 
fect pafte in a ftone mortar; inthe beating of them put . 
rofe-water to themto keep them from oyling;' being 
finely beat, put them ina difh with the fugar, and fet 
them over a chafing-difhof coals,ftir it till ic will come 
cleanfrom the bottom of the-difh, then put in two 
grains of musk,» and three of ambergriefe. | = 1. 2 
a" i] 


am % 





‘ 


~ der, and fearfe or fift them ; then take fome gum-dra- 


e my nae fe ¥ Rh , ; 
ry as 
koa Yah Cae 


ae 


Art and My/tery of Coo 





~The 





Ey To make the Italian Chips, : 
Take fomeé pafte of flowers, beat them to fine pow- 
gon fteepedin rofe-water, beat it to a perfect pafte in 


a marble moftar, then roul it thin, and lay one colour 
upon another in a long roul, roul them very thin, then 


cut them overthwart,and they will look of divers pret- 


ty colours like marble. __ | 
To make Bisket Bread. 

Takea pound of {ugar fearfed very fine, a pound of 
flour well dryed, twelve eggs and but fix whites,a hand- 
ful of caraway-feed, and a little falt ; beacall thefe to- 
gether the {pace of an hour, then your oven being hot, 
put them into plates or tin things,butter them and wipe 
them, a {poonful into 2 plate is enough, fo fet them into 
the oven; and make it as hot as to bake theni for man- 


chet: Yeene 
err fi make Diguieag hoy, ee 
__ Take a pound of fine fearfed fugar, a pound of fine 
flour, and fix eggs, beat them very well, then put them 
all into a ftone mortar; and pound them for the {pace 


_ of an hour and a half, let it not ftand ftill, for then it 


will be heavy, and when you have beaten it fo longa 
time, put in halfe an ounce of annileed § then butter o- 
ver fome pie plates, and drop the ftuff on the plate as 
faftas two or three can with {poons, fhape them round 
as near as you can, and fer them into an ovenas hot as 
for manchet, but the lefs they are coloured the better: 


Bifguite du Roy otherways, 


- Take toa pound of four a pound of fagarjand twelve 


new laid eggs, beat them o a deep difh, then put. 


td 





a Pee 














to them two grains of musk diffolved, rofe-water, an- 
nifeed, and coriander-feed, beat them the {pace of an 
hour witha wooden fpatter ; then the oven being rea- 
dy, have white tin moulds butter’d, and fill them Tuite 
this Bifquite, ftrow double refined fugar on them, and 
bake them when they rife out of the moulds, draw 
them and put them on a great pafty-plate or pye-plate, 
and dry them ina ftove, and put them in a {quare lat- 
tin box, and lay white papers betwixt every range or 
rank, have a padlock to it, and fet itover a warm oven, — 
fo keep them, and thus for any kind of bisket, mack- 
eroons, marchpane, fugar plates, or pafties, fet them in 
a temperate place where they may not give with every 
change of weather, and thus you may keep them very 


long. 
ee To make Shell Bread. ‘, 

Take a quarter of a pound of rice flour,a quarter o 

a pound of fine flour, the yolks of four new laid 85S | 

and a little rofe-water, anda grainof musk; make 

thefe into a perfect pafte, then roul it very thin and 

bake it in great mufcle-fhells, but firft toaft the fhells 

in butter melted when they be baked, boil them in - 

melted fugar as you boil a fimmel, then lay them on 

the bottom of a wooden fieve, and they will eat as 

crifpasawafer. 7 a he 


aus To make Bean Bread. me 

Take two pound of blanched almonds and {lice them, 
take to them two pound of double refined fugar finely 
beaten and fearfed,five whites of eggs beaten to froth, 
alittle musk fteeped to rofe-water,and fome annifeeds, 
mingle them all together in a difh, and bake them on 
pewter-plates buttered, then afterwards dry them and 
them. | 


r ‘ j ° abi 






d To make Ginger-Bread, 
. Take a pound of Jordan Almonds, and a penny man- 
chet grated and fifted and mingled among thealmond 
pafte very fine beaten, an ounce of flic’t ginger, two 
thimble fuls of liquoras and annifeed in powder finely 
fearfed, beat allina mortar together, with two or 
three fpoonfuls of rofe-water, beat them to a perfect 
pafte with half a pound of frgar, mould it, and roul it 
thin, then print it and dry it ina ftove, and guild itif 
you pleafe. 

_ Thus youmay make gingerbread of fugar plate;put- 
ting fugar to it as abovefaid. 

, To make Ipocras. 

Take to a gallon of wine, three ounces of cinamon,, 
two ounces of flic’t ginger, a quarter of an ounce of 
cloves, an ounce of mace, twenty corns of pepper, an 
ounce of nutmegs,three pound of fugar, and two quarts 
of cream. 
| Otherways. nn) 

Take toa pottle of wine,an otince of cinamon, an 
ounce of ginger, anounce of nutmegs, a quarter of an 
ounce of cloves, feven corns of pepper, a handful of 
rofemary-flowers, and two pound of fugar. 


To make excellent Mead much tommensed, 


Take to every quart of honey a gallon of fair {pring 
water, boil it well with nutmeg and ginger bruifed a 
little, in the boiling fcum it well, and being boil’d, fet 
it acooling in feverall veffels that it may {tand thin, 
then the next day put it in the veffel, and let it fiand a 
week or two, then draw it in bottles. an 

Ifit be to drink ina fhort time you may workitas 
beer, but it will not keep long. 


V3 | On | 


The Art and Myftery of Cookery. 275 





Se as aa 
276 The Accomplifht 
Or take to every gallon of water,a quart ofhoney, ay 


duarter of an ounce of mace, as much ginger and cinna- — 
mon, and half as much cloves, bruife them, and ule 






Vane 





“ 


wv 





them as abovefaid. <5 Se 


<r 


Otherways. ae 
Take five quarts and a pint of water, warm it, and 
put to‘ita quart.of honey, and to every gallon of liquor 
- sone lemon, anda quarter of an ounce of nutmegs; it — 
~*~ muft boil till the fcum rife black, and if you will have © 
| it quickly ready to drink, {queeze into it a lemon when 
you tun it, and tun it cold. a 
| To make Metheghin. Baye 
Takeall forts of herbs that are good and wholefome 
as balm, mint, rofemary, fennil, angelica, wild time,hy- — 
f{op, burnet, agrimony, and fuch other field herbs, half 
a handful of each, boil and ftrain them, and let theli- — 
quor ftand till the next day, being fetled take two gal- — 
lons and a halfof honey, let it boil an hour, and in the © 
- boiling {cum it very clean, fet it a cooling as you do 
beer,and whenit is cold, take very good barm and put 
it into the bottom of the tub,by a little & alittle asto — 
beer, keeping back the thick fetling that lieth in the ~ 
bottom of the veffel that it iscooledin ; whenit is all — 
put together cover it witha cloth and let it work ve- 
ry near threedays, then when you mean to put it u Psa 
skim off all the barm. clean, and put it up into a_ 
veflel, but you mutt not ftop the veffel very clofe in 
three or four days, but let it have fome vent to work ; 
when it is clofe {topped you muft look often toit, and 
have a peg on the top to give it vent, when youheare © 
-it nae a noife as it will do, . or elfé it will break the- 
veflel. 
Sometimes make a bag and putin good ftore of 
flic’t ginger,fome cloves and cinamon, boil’d or not. 
} | ch | ~ Section 





Yea rg Pee Ay Se SON PRS gdh fy OA Rak Ph 26] aera aR CARRIES Woke FAY oe tae) edo RD Pam Se 
Pits any ‘ ay Ninn las PRE ae ed a ee ee cn AM ae di 

a oA aa ‘ < Ww Sh sigs igh & 

. 5 : ~ ip Aree Ae 





‘ te Fi The Art and Myftery of Cookery. * | OIF 


"ee 
_ Seftion XII. 


To make all manner of Creams Sack- 


Poffets, Sillabubs, Blamangers, 
White-Pots, Fools, Waffsls, &c. 








To make Apple Gream. : 


Eat twelve pippins,pare and flice,or quafter them, 
H put them into a skillet with fome claret wine,and 
a race of ginger fliced thin,a little lemon-peel cut {mall, 
and fome fugar; let all thefe {tew together till they 
be foft, then take them off the fire and putthem ina 
_ difh,and when they be cold take a quart of cream boil’d 
witha little nutmeg, and put in of the apple ftuff to 
_ make it of what thicknefs you pleafe,and fo ferve it up. 


gg tu To make Codling Gream. 


Take twenty fair codlings being peeld and codled 
tender and green, put them in a clean filver-dith, filled 
half full of rofe-water,and halfa pound of fugar,boil all 
this liquor. together till half be confumed, and keep it 
ftirring till it be ready, then fill up the dith with good 
thick and {weet cream, {tir it till it be well mingled,and 
whenit hath boil’d round about the difh, take it off, 
{weeten it with fine fugar,and ferve itcold. : 
ro Vege | Other- 





et We, ee eee 


‘3 SELB Acconppliffat | SOOK: Or, re i 








é 


-. Othervays, ae : 
Codle forty fair codlings green and tender,then peel _ 
and core them, and beat themin a mortar, ftrainthem 
with a quart of cream,and mix them well together ina 
difh with fine fugar, fack, musk, and rofe-water. Thus 
you may do withany fruit you pleafe, ED) 


To boil Gream with Codlings, 

Boil a quart ofcream with mace, fugar, two yolks of 
eggs, two {poonfulls of rofe water, and a grain of am- 
bergriefe, put it into the cream,and fet them over the 

fire till they be ready to boil, then fet them to cool, 
{tirring it till ic be cold ; then take a quart of green cod- 
ling {tuff ftrained, put it into a filver difh, and mingle — 
it with cfeam, 3 i 


_ To make 2uince-Gre ai a 
‘Take and boilthem in fair water, but firft let the 
water boil, then put them in and being tender boil'd 
take them up and peel them, ftrain them and mingle it 
with fine fugar, then take fome very good: and {weet 
cream, mix all together and make it of afit thicknefs, 
or boil the cream with a ftick of of cinamon,and let it 

ftand tillit be cold before you put itto the quinces, . 

‘Thus yon may do wardens or pears, Be Pe 


| To make Plum Cream 

Take any kind of Plums, Apricocks,or the like, and 

put them in a difh with fome fugar, whice-wine, fack, 
claret,or rofe-water,clofe them up with a piece of pafte 
between two difhes; being baked and cold,put to them 
..eream boil’d with eggs,or without, or raw, and {crape 
on fugar, ee, | ith T 
se) A 


teal Ti: Sis seal Ei aT ol li acy a a a Da ANT DEN AY BL $4] ccm creer Raman Ben tees 9 Ty Ye es a MEAP te a, Pe 
ym a dee Ae et 5 ' ayes J : if \ ‘ey vy x 


The Art and Myftery of Cookery. j 279 






| — Tomake Goofebervy Cream. 3 
_  Codle them green,and boil them up with fugar, be- 
ing preferved put them into the cream {train’d as whole, 
fcrape fugar on them, and fo ferve them cold in boil’d | 
or raw cream. Thus you may do ftrawberries, rafpas, 
or red currans, put inraw cream whole, or ferve them 
with wine and fugar ina difh without cream. rd 


: To make Snow Cream. 
Take a quart of cream, fix whites of eggs, aquar- 
tern of rofe-water,a quarter of a pound of double refin- 
-ed fugar, beat them eae ina deep bafon or a boul 
difh, then havea fine filver difh with a penny manchet, 
the bottom and upper cruft being taken away,& made 
faft with pafte to the bottom of the difh, anda ftreight 
fprig ofrofemary fet in the middle of it, then beat the 
cream and eggs together, and as it froatheth take it off 
with a {poon and lay it on the bread.and rofemary till 
you have fill’d the difh. You may beat amongft it {ome 
musk and ambergriefe diffolv’d,and gild it ifyou pleafe. 


To make Snow Gream otherways. 
Boila quart of cream with a ftick of cinamon, and 
_ thicken it with rice flour,the yolks of two or three eggs, 
a little rofe-water,fugar,and {alt,give it a walm,and put 
it inadifh, lay clouted cream on it, and fill it up with 
whip cream or cream that cometh out of the top ofa 
churn when the butter is come,difht out of a {quirt or 
fome other fine way, {crape on fugar, {prinkleit with 
rofewater, and {tick fome pine-apple-feeds on it. 
| Otherways. 
Take three-pints of cream, and the whites of feven 
eggs, (train them together,with a little rofewater and as 
V4 much 





Jay your {now uponit. | 


To make Snow Cream otherways with Almonds. 

‘Take a quart of good {weet cream,and a quarter oF a 
pound of almond pafte fine beaten with rofe-water,and_. 
{trained with halfa pint of white-wine, put fome o- 
range-peel to it,a flic't nutmeg,and three {prigs of rofe- 
mary, let it {tand two or three hours in fteep;then put 
{ome double refined fugar to it,and {train it into a bafon, 
beat it till it froth and bubble, and as the froth rifeth, 
take it off with a {poon,and lay it in the difh you ferve 
16D Ie Se is 4 tee 
nt To make a Felly of Almonds as white as Snow. 

Take a pound of almonds, fteep themin cold water 
{ix hours, and blanch them into cold water,then make a 
decoction of half a pound of ifing-glafs, with two 
quarts of white wine and thejuyce of two lemons,boil 
it till half be wafted,then let it cool and ftrain it,mingle 
it with the almonds, and ftrain them with a pound of 
double refined fugar,& the juyce of two lemons,turn it 
into colous, red, white, or yellow, and put it into egg 
fhells,or orange peels,and ferve them on a pye plate up- 
ona difh. Bas Yalta. see 
on ts To make Almond Cream. 

Take half a pound of almond pafte beaten with rof- — 
water, and {train it with a quart of cream, put it ina 
skillet with a ftick of cinamon. and boil it, ftir it conti- 
wh ep tek ds “bie ee pete A Ae ae Oh gt F . . ‘ nually, 


Rie Wier ALIA ewe T CY? fT NO ee Meise Bua Se Meee tay 





ra ROT TE Oy ret a ar aa Re ears : aT Sr ' “a ' ae 
The Art and Myftery of Cookery. 281 


: pually, and when it is boiléd thick,put fugar to it,and 
~ ferve itup cold. | 


To make Almond Gream otherways, ‘, 
Take thick almond milk made with fair {pring-wa- 
ter, and boil it a little then take it from the fire, and — 
put to a little-falt and vinegar, caft it into a clean ftra- 
iner and hang it-upona pin over a difh,then being finely 
rained, take it down and putit in a difh,put to it fome- 
fine beaten fugar,and a little fack,muskedine, or white 
wine, difh it on a filver difh, and ftrow on red Biskets, . 


: Otherways. 

Take a quart ofcream, boil it over night, then in 
the morning have half a pound of almonds blanched and : 
fine beaten, {train them with the cream, and put to ira 
quarter of a pound of double refined fugar, a little rofe- 
‘water,a little fine ginger and cinamon finely fearfed,and 
mixed all together, difh it ina clean filver difh with 
fine carved {ippets round about it. 


To make Almond Gheefe. 

Take almonds being beaten as fine as marchpane 
pafte, then havea fack-poffet with cream and fack,min- 
gle the’ curd of the poffet with almond pafte,and {et it 
on a chafing-difh of coals, put fome double refined {u- 
gar toitand fome rofe-water ; then fafhion it on a pye- ’ 
plate like a frefh cheefe,put it ina difh,put a little cream 
to it, {crape fugar, on it,and being cold ferve it up. 


: To make an excellent Gream. 
~ Take a quart of cream, and fet it a boiling with a. 
large mace or two,whilft it is boiling cut fome thin fip- 
pets, and lay themin avery fine clean difh, saan 





F (AOE 
. i ff aS dhs. 
ar ee, We ae ' 





», 
' * 
, 


-feven or eight yolks of eggs ftrained with rofe-water, — 
put fome fugar to them, then take the cream from the 


fire,put in the eggs, and ftir all together, then pour it 
on the flices of fine manchet, and being cold {crape on 


fugar, and fo ferve it. 


em 


‘ To make Cream otherways. 
Take a quart of cream, and boil it with four or five 


large maces,and a {tick of whole cinamon; when it hath 
boiled a little ai have feven or eight yolks of eggs 


diffolved with a little cream, take the cream from the 

fire and putin the eggs, ftir them well into the boiled 

cream,and put itin a clean dith, take out the {pices,and 

when itis cold ftick ic with thofe maces and cinamon. 

Thus you may do with the whites of the eggs with 

cream. - 
To make caft Cream, 

Take a quart of cream, a pint of new milk, andthe 
whites of fix eggs, {train them together and boil it, in 
the boiling ftir it continnally till it be thick, then put 
to itfome verjuyce,and put it intoa ftrainer,hang it on 
a nail or pin to drain the whey fromit, then ftrain ir, 
put fome fugar toit and rofe-water; drain it in a fair 


difh, and ftrow on fome preferved pine-kernels, or 


candied piftaches. In this fafhion you may do it of the 


yolks of eggs. | | 
To make Clouted Gream, 


Take three galons of new milk,and fet it on the fire . 


in a clean fcowred brafs pan or kettle till it boils, then 
make a hole in the middle of the milk,& take threepints 


of good cream and put into the hole as it boileth,boil ic 


together half an hour,then divide it into four milk pans, 
and let it cool two days, if the weather be not too hot, 


then take it up witha flice or {cummer,pat it ina ee 
: an 





- 





The Art and Myftery of Cookery. 283 
and {prinkle it with rofe-water, lay one clod upon a 
nother, and fcrape on fugar. ‘ 


To make clouted Gream otherways extraordinary. 

Take four gallons of new milk from the cow,fetit o- 
ver the the fire in clean {cowred pan or kettle to {cald 
ready to boil, ftrain it through aclean ftrainer and put 
it into feveral pans to cool, then take the cream fome 
fix hours after, and put it in the difh you mean to ferve 
it in,feafon it with rofe-water,fugar,and musk, put fome 
' raw cream to it, and fome {now cream on that. 


To make clouted Gream otherways. 
_Takea gallon of new milk from the cow,two quarts 
of cream,and twelve {poonfuls of rofe-water, put thefe 
together in a large milk-pan, and fet it upon a fire of 
charcoal well kindled, you mutt be fure the fire be not 
too hot ) and let it ftand a day anda night, then take it 
off and difh it with a flice or fcummer, let.no milk be | 
in it, and being difht and cut in fine little pieces,fcrape 
{ugar on it. 
| | To make a very good Gream. | 
When you churn butter,take out half a pint of cream 
juft as it begins toturn to butter,(that is,when it is a lit- 
tle frothy ) then boil a quart of good thick and new 
cream,feafon it with fugar and a little rofe-water,when 
itis quite cold, mingle it very well with that you take 
out of the churn, and fo difh it, 


To make a Sack Gream, 7 
Take a quart of cream, and {et it on the fire,when it 
is boiled, drop infix or eight drops of fack, and ftir it 
well to keep it from curdling, then feafon it with {u- 
gar and {trong water. FS 
Te 


+ ies MN ck i dle 
2 * ; Fae H's % , 








ihe Lveetes 9 & 


The 





f 
a 














Accorplilbt COOK: *Or5 


a 7 


, To make Cabbidge Cream. = 

Set fix quarts of new milk on the fire, and when it 
boils empty it into ten or twelve earthen pans or bowls 
as faft as you can without frothing, fet them where they - 
may come, and when they are alittlecold, gather the — 
cream thatison the top with your hand,rumpling it to- 
gether, and lay it ona platé, when you have laid three 
or four layers on one another, wet 2 feather in rofe- 
water and musk and ftroke over it, then fearfe a lirtle 
grated nutmeg, and fine fugar, (and if you pleafe, beat ~ 
{ome musft and ambergrie(e in it) and lay three or four 
lays more on as beforesthus do till you have off all the 
cream inthe bowls, then put all the milk to boil again, 
and when it boils fet it as you did before in bowls, and 
foufe it in like manner ; it will yield four or five times 
feething, which you muft ufe as before, that it may lye 
round and high like a cabbige ; or let one of the firft 
bowls ftand:becaufe the cream may be thick and moft 
crumpled, take that up laft to. lay on uppermoft, and 
when you ferve it up fearfe or {crape fugaron, it; 
this muft be made over night for dinner,or inthe morn- 
ing for upper. Haid : 
iL | To make Stone Cream. | 
"Take a quart of cream, two or three blades of large 
- mace, two or three little fticks of cinamon, and {1x 
{poonfulls of rofewater, feafon it fweet with fugar,and 
boil it tillit tafte well of the fpice, then dith it,and ftir 
it tillic be as cold as milk from the cow, then put ina 
little runnet and ftir it together,let ic ftand and cool,and 


ferveit to the table. 
| To make Whipt Cream : 
Take a whisk or arodand beat it up thick in a bowl or 


large bafon,till it be as thick as the cream that comes of 
re t 













fol paths GA AC NBS SIM ar cues RRO Lind anaes it Mae) el I Ce NaN. 4) Tne ny 
a baa Mee ET elias ie a ; aes Filo Nt 
4 : > i, + US et 


et a ae a 
S The Art and Myftery of 


_ thetop of a churn, then Jay fine linning clouts on fau- 
cers being wet, lay on the cream, and let it reft two or 
three hours, then turn them into afine filver difh, 
put raw cream tothem, and {crape on fugar. 


To make Rice Gream. : 
Take a quart of cream, two handfuls of rice flour, an 
a quarter ofa pound of fugar, mingle the flour and fu- 
0 oni well together, and put it in the creams then 
eat the yolk of an egg with a little rofe-warer, put 
it to thecream and ftir them all together, fetit over a 
quick fire, keeping it continually ftirring till it be as 
thick as pap. 
_ To make another vare Cream. at 
_ *Takea pound of almond pafte fine beaten with rofe- 
water, mingle it with a quart of cream, fix eggs,a little 
fack, halfa pound of fugar, and fome beaten nutmeg ; 
ftrain them and put them in aclean {cowred skillet, © 
and fet it ona foftfire, ftir it continually, and being 
well incorporated, difh it, and ferve it with juyce of o- 
range, fugar, and {tick it full of canded piftaches. 


“To make a white Leach of Cream, 


Take a quart of cream, twelve fpoonfuls of rofe-wa- 
ter, two grains of musk, two drops of oyl of mace, or 
two large maces, boil them with halfa pound of fugar, 
and halfa pound ofthe whiteft ifing-glafs ; being firft 
{teeped and wafhed clean, then run it through your jel- 
ly-bag,into a difhs when itis cold {lice it into chequer- _ 
work, and ferve iton a plate. This is thebeft way 
to make leach. = : | | 
To make other Leach with Almonds. ; 
Take two ounces of ifing-gla{s,lay ittwo hoursinfair > 
water;then boil it in clear {pring- water,and being spt 
i = 


Cookery. “285 












ee 


as ie i * sy i, i 


ry 
digefted fet it tocools then have a pound of almonds 
beaten very fine with rofe-water, {train them witha 
pint ofnew milk, and put in fome mace and flic’t gin- 
ger, boil them till it tafte well of the {pices, then put in- 
to it the digefted ifing-glafs, fome fugar, and a little 
rofe-water, give it a warm’ over the fire, and runit 
through a {trainer into difhes, and {lice it into difhes. _ 











To make a Gream Tart in the Italian fafbion to eat cold, 


Take twenty yolks of eggs, and two quarts ofcream, 
ftrain it witha little falt, faftron, rofe-water, juyce of 
orange, a little white-wine, anda pound of fine fugar, 
then bake it in a deep difh with fome fine cinamon,an 
fome canded piftaches ftuck on it, and when it is ba- 
ked, white muskedines. | | 

Thus you may do with the whites of the eggs, and 
putin no fpices. ore 

To make Piramedis Cream. | 

Take a quart of water, and fix ounces of harts-horn, 
put itinto a bottle with gum-dragon,and gum-araback, 
of each as much as a walnut ; put them allinto the bot- 
tle,which mutt be fo big as will hold a pint more, for 
if it be full it will break, ftop it Very clofe witha cork, 
and tye a cloth over it, put the bottle in the beef-pot, 
or boil it ina pot with water,let it boil three hours,then 
take as much creamas there is jelly, and halfa pound 
of almonds well beaten with rofe-water, mingle the 
cream and the almonds together,{train it, then put the 
jelly when it is coldinto a filver bafon, andthe cream 
to it, {weeten it as you pleafe, and put intwo or three 
grains of musk and ambergriefe, fet it over the fire, and 
{tir it continually till be feathing hot,but let it not boils 
then putic in an old fathioned drinking glafs, and te 
. an 






eee! ROY 
> aol nie x : 
: : ey 


a The Art and Myftery of 


ftand till it be cold, when you will-vé ir, put the mals, 
in fome warm water, and whelm it in a difh, then — 
take piftaches boil’d in white-wine and fugar,ftick it all 
over, and ferve it in with cream. | 

French Barley Gream, . 

Take a porringer full of French perle barley, boif 
it in eight or nine feveral waters very tender, then put 
it ina quart of cream,with'fome large mace, and whole 
cinamon, boil ic about a quarter ofan hour ; then have ~ 
two pound of almonds blanched and beaten fine with 
rofe-water, put to them fome fugar, and ftrain the al- 
monds with fome cold cream, then put all over the 
fire, and ftir it till ic be half cold, then put to ie 
two {poonfuls of fack or white-wine, and a little fale, - 

and ferveit in a difh cold. : 


| To make Cheefecakes, 
Let your pafte be very good, either puff-pafte or 
cold butter-pafte, with fugar mixed with ir, thenthe 
whey being dried very well from the cheefe-curds 
which muft be made ofnew milk or butter, beat them 
in a mortar or tray,with a quarter of a pound of butter 
to every pottle of curds,a good quantity of rofe-water, 
three grains of ambergriefe or musk prepared, the 
crums of a {mall manchet rubbed through a cullender, 
the yolks of ten eggs, a grated nutmeg, a little falt, and 
ood ftore of fugar, mix all thefe well together with a 
itlle cream, but do not make them too foft ; inftead of 
bread you may take almonds which are much better 5 
bake them ina quick oven, and let them not ftand too 
long in, leaft they {hould be to dry. 
) To make Cheefecakes otherways. 
‘Make thecruft of milk & butter boil’d together, put it 
into the four & make it up pretry fliff,toa pottle = fine 
| 7 our 





Cookery. 287 






fos 


4 


eed 
e 
i We Gi rs fe 


“flour, take half.a pound of butter; thentakea frefh 


cheefe made of morning milk, and a pint ofcream, put — 
it tothenew milk, and fet the cheefe with fome run- ~ 


net, when it is come, putitin a cheefe-cloth and prefs 


it from the whey, ftamp in the curds a grated fine 
{mall manchet, fome cloves and mace, a pound and a. 


half of well wafhed and pick’t currans, the yolks of 
eight eggs, fome rofe-water, falt, half'a pound ofrefi- 


ned white fugar, and a nutmeg or two; workall thefe. 


materials well together with a quarter of a pound of - 


of good fweet butter, and fome cream, but make it not 
oe foft, and make your cheefecakes according to thefe 
ormes. cit 





Al 
: To make Gheelecakes otherways: oak 
, Make the pafte of a pottle of flour, halfa pound of 





butter,as much ale barm as two egg fhells will hold,and — 
a little faffron made into fine powder, and put into the - 


flour, melt the butter in milk, and make up the pafte ; 


then take the curds ofa gallon-of new milk cheefe,and . 


“a pint of cream, drain the whey very well from it, 


pound it in a mortar, then mix it with*halfa poundof - 
fugar, anda pound of well wafhed and picked currrans; 


a grated nutmeg, fome fine beaten cinamon, falt, rofe- 
water,a little faffron made into fine powder, and fome 
eight yolks of eggs, work it up very ftiff with fome 
butter anda little cream: _ | Other 








the Art and Myftery of Cookery. 289 
ATS Oh ae em eee ee a 
_ Take fix quarts of new milk,run it pretty cold, and 
when it is tender come, drain fromit the whey, and 
hang it up ina ftrainer,prefs the whey from it,and beat 
it ina mortar tillit be like butter,then ftrain it through 
a ftrainer, and mingle it with a pound of butter with 
your hand;then beat a pound of almonds with rofe-wa- 
ter till they be as fine as the curds; put to them the yolks 
of twenty eggs,a quart of cream, two grated nutmegs, 
and a pound and ahalf of jugar, when the coffins are 
ready to be fet into the oven, then mingle them toge- 
ther,and let them bake halfan hour ; the pafte muft be 
made of milk and butter warmed together,dry the cof- 
fins as you do foracuftard, make the pafté very {tiff, 
and make them into works. 


To make Gheefecakes without Milk: 





"Take twelve eggs,take away fix whites,and beat thet 
-very well; then take a quart of cream,and boil it wich 
mace,take it off the fire, put in the eggs, and ftir them 
well together;then fer it onthe fire-again,and let it boil 
till ic curds; then fet it off,and put to it a good quantity 
of fugar, fome grated nutmeg; and beaten mace ; then 
diffolve musk &zambergriefe in rofe-water,three or four’ 

x {poon- 








~The Accompli 


. 





\ im, 
5 ahee pe Samco &, Sm opus RN A eae te abn Rn a a hen rea 








{poonfuls of grated bread,with half pound of almonds 
beat fmall,a little cream,and fome currans ; then make 
the pafte for them of flour, fugar,cream,and butter, bake 
a in a mild oven; a quarter of an hour will bake 
them. . . po: 
Bie ts _ Cheefecakes otherways. == = 
For the pafte take a pottle of four, half a pound of 
butter and the white of an egg,work it well into the 
flour with the butter,then put a little cold water to it, 
and work it up ftiffthen take a pottle of cream, halfa 
pound of fugar,and a pound of currans boil’d before you 
put them in,a whole nutmeg grated, and a little pepper 
fine beaten, boil thefe gently, and ftir it continually 
with twenty eggs well beaten amongft the cream, be- 


ing boil’d and cold, fill the cheefecakes. 
To make Gheefecakes otherways,- a 

Take eighteen eggs, and beat them very well, beat 
fome flour amongft them to make them pretty thick ; 
then have a pottle of cream.and boilit, being boiled — 
put in your eggs, flour,and half a pound of butter,fome 
cinamon,falt,boil’d currans,and fagar,fet them over the 
fire, and boil it pretty thick, being cold fill them and 
bake them, make the cruftas beforefaid. 


To make Gheefecakes 1n the Italian Fafbion. 

Take four pound of good fat Holland cheefe, and fix 
pound of goodfrefh cheefe:curd of amorning milk cheefe 
or better,beat them ina ftone or Wooden mortar,then 
put fugar tothem,& two-pound of well wafhed currans, 
twelve eggs, whites & all,being firft well beaten,a pound 
of fugat,{ome cream,half anounce of cinamon,a quarter 
of an ounce of mace,and a little faffron, mix them well 
together,& fill your talmonfe or cheelecakes pafty-ways 

is : ‘A in 











~The Art and Myftery of Cookery. 298 
a good cold butter -patte; fometimes ufebeatenalmonds. “ate s 


:mongft it,and fome piftaches whole; Pate baked, ice’ 
them with yolks of eggs, rofe: water; and fugar, cafton «~ 
red and white biskets, and ferve them up hots: 2." to 5 
Cheefecakes in the Italian falhion otherways. © i200 3 
Take a pound of piftaches {tamped with two pound” 
of morning-milk cheefe-cutd frefh made, three ounces 


of elder flowers, ten eggs, a pound of fugar, a pound of © = * 
butter, anda pottle of flour; ftrain thefe in a courfe- 
frainer,; and put them in fhort or B hentpeertiked 2 


To make Gheefecakes otherways. : 
_Takea good morning milk cheefe, or betteroffome= 5.°. 
eight pound weight; {tamp it ina mortar, and beata® 9 ~ © 
pound of butter amongftit, and a pound of fugar, then: * 2 
mix with it beaten mace, two pound of ‘currans well <> 
picked and wafhed,a penny manchet grated; ora pound. > 
of almonds blanched and beaten with fine rofe-water; >. =. 
2nd fome falr 3 then boil fome cream,and thickenitwith =.» ~~ 
fix or eight yolks ot eggs; mixed withthe otherthings;= - 
work them well together,and fill the cheefecakesmake. = 7. 
the curd not too foft,and make the pafte of cold butreé -- 
aad water according to thefe forins: vers yoy ze. oo 


a 


ht the 


_ 








ed put cream to it. 


~ he be 


- 





292 ~The Accomplift COOK: Or, 
= * TomakeaTrifel 9 


Take a quart of the beft and thickeft cream, fet it on 
the fire in aclean skillet,and put to it whole mace,cinz- 
mon,and fugar,boil it well in the cream before you put | 
in the fugar ; then your cream being well boiled pour 
it into a fine filver piece or difh,and take out the pices, 
Jet it cool tiltit be no more than blood-warm,then pur 
in a {poonful of good runnet,and fet it well apeteeye 
ing cold {crape {ugar on it, and trim the dith fides finely, 


To make frelh Cheefe and Cream: anh 
Take a pottle of milk as it comes from the cow; and 


a pint of cream, put to it a {poonfal of runnet, and Jerit 


{tand two hours, theh ftir it up and putit in a fine cloth, 
Jet the whey drain from it,and put the curd intoa bow}. 
difh,or bafon; then put to itthe yolk ofan egg.a {poon- 
ful of rofe-water, fome falt, fugar, and a little nutmeg 
finely beaten, put itto the cheefe in the cheefe-fat on2 
fine cloth, then {crape on {ugar,and ferve it on 2 plate 
ina cith. . F Bact ia week i tae 5 Gob 

Thus you may make frefh cheefe and cream in the 
French fathion called Fonches, or ruth cheefe, being put 
in a mould of rufhes tyed at both ends, and being dith- 


+ ~ _ * 


% ‘ 
| To make a Poffet. | 
Take the yolks of twenty eggs, then have a pottle of 
good thick fweet cream,boil itwith good ftore of who! 
cinamcn,and ftir it continually’ona good fire,then {train 
the eggs witha little raw cream;when the cream is well 
boiled and tafteth of the fpice,take it off the fire,put in 
the eggs,and ftir them well in the cream, being pretty 
thick,have fome {ack in a poffet pot or deep filver fone 


“a 


4 
" “ 
4, 
et 
ry 4 
wh 
; 
- 
a = Se as 
ri = A 
1 = 
, a 
4 
Np 
/ a 
~% 
gain ‘ 
: 
5 
' 
Ady f, +. 
web Ff) reac: 
x ‘ a 
” La 
be mye 
uA \ ‘ 
~~ atey 4 
ei ut 
] 
a > i 
¢ r j oe 
+ ; h hy = 
‘Y bs 7 =~ 
r we 


Pn : 
5 a 7 Pigs in 
d a ° 
an . 
7: ‘ 
ates - 
r 
; Sha “~ 7 
G4 £Se bt 
N} a ° 
> 











Sun ans wei nee bios 


ng EATS Ae 


ema 
eae pe “na nanenhieonee 


aH: Se 
sty bas 3 mois off X 


or BB 


se al 


cae ee , oi $i aya 
: 1G 2 ager a ibd 


ee 
* 
> 3 » tc «@ 
t7"t et =>: ott 
b ee 
€ 


athe 2% 2 ae q 
J te ag gOS wit 
rig wit ate 


sp OOVisorags 
t 1 Bf ite Vie 


#t 





The Art and Myftery of Cookery. 293 


halfa pound of double refined fugar,and fome fine gra- 
ted nutmeg, warm it in the bafon and pour in the cream 
and eggs,the cinamon being taken out, pour it as high 
as you can hold the skillet, let ic. {patter in the bafon 
to make it froth, ic will make a moft excellent poffet, 
then have loaf-fugar fine beaten, and ftrow on it good 
ore. 

To the curd you may add fome fine grated manchet, 
fome claret or white-wine, or aleonly. beer 
, To make a Poffet otherways. 

Take two quarts of new cream, a quarter of an ounce 
of whole cinamon, and two nutmegs quartered,boil it 
till ic tafte well of the {pice, and keep it always ftir- 
ring, or it will burn to, then take the yolks of four- 
teen or fifteen eggsbeaten well together witha little 
cold cream, put them to the cream on the fire, and ftir 
ittill it begin to boil, then take it off and f{weeten it 
with fugar, and ftir ic on tillit be pretty cool; then 
take a pint and a quarter of fack, fweeten that alfo and 
fet it on the fire till it be ready to boil, then put it in 
a fine clean fcowred bafon, or poffet pot, and pour the - 
the cream into it,elevating your hand to make it froth, 
which is the grace of your poflet ; if you put it through 
a tunnel or cullender, it is held the more exquifite way. 


— To make Sack Poffet otherways. 

- Take two quarts of good cream, anda quarter of a 
pound of the beft almonds {tamp’t with fome rofe-water 
or cream, ftrain them with the cream, and boil with ir 
amber and musk; then take a pint of {ack ina bafon,and 
fet it on a chaffing difh till it be bloud warm;then take 
the yolks of twelve eggs with 4. whites,beat them very 
well together,and fo put the eggs into the fack,make it 
good and hot, then ftir all together in the bafon,fet the 
Me X 3 - cream 


oe 








cream cool a Tittle before you aie ‘it into ies oe 


~ ftir all together on the coals, till chen 

would have ir, then take-fome-amber and 
it fmall with fagar, and ftrew iton the top ft 
fet, it will give ita mott delicate and pleafant 1 : 


Sack Poffet otherways, = " 
Take eight-eggs, whites'.and-yolks, beat pane 
together, and ftrain them into |a-quart of cream, feafon 
them with nutmeg and {ugar, \and\\put sto them a pint 
of fack,. ftir, them. all cogether, -arichput itinto -vour.’ba- 
fon, fet i itin the oven no houptithendont cuitar Ayr 
lec it ftand two hours, n oftst 33 tt ; 


BE agi yOu 







To make a Sack Poffet iia ‘yi Greim, 


Take eighteen eggs, whites took Ae th 
treads, and beat them very swellj-chenatake aypine of 
fack, and.a quart of ale boil’do foun: vita “pucinte it 
three quarters of a pound of fugar,and halfanugmeg;ler 
at boila little togéther;then takeit| off thefireftirring 
- the eggs ftill, put into them»two! or-three Jadle 
drink, then mingle all:togethér; vet it onctheifixes arid 

nee’ it ftirring: till you rm ra he sashieaie atabpe ly: NY 


O 19Na Hi § & 
Other Poet. 

Take a quart of cream;and aquarter of nutmeg in it, 
Kei it-onthe -fire;andJet it-boilia little; ase issbdling 
take apot or bafon thatyoumaymake thé pdfles inyand 
put inthree {poonfuls of fack:and-dome ight {peontals 
of ale, fiveeten ic with fagarythen{et-it-omthescealsito 
warma litle while s being waritied, takelic oftandier 
it ftand. till it-be almoft ¢dld, then patat intolthe por. 
or bafon,ftir ita dittle; and: let, it ftandtodimmer over 
the fire an hour'or more, the longer inners boo a 

& 






Ry ee OR er eR ae sel ice Te 1S PRS Ee Reh os Ops J Teo hie b say a 
oii IACMR oe eT SARE MOA ToE HOE Oy) eC ACERS ee Na aR 
- ri Did eae Na) a aed ry aaa 
| | } 


The Ar and Myftery of Cookery. ‘ite 295 


Ai excellent Syllabub. 11g Epi 3 

-. Fill your Sillabub pot half fall with fider, and good 
ftore of fugar,anda little nucmeg, ftir ic well together, 
and put in as much cream by. two or three f{poonfuls 
at a time, as hard as you can,as though you milke it ins 
then ftir it together very foftly once about, and let it 
ftand two hours before you eat it, for the ftanding 
makes it curd. nee 


To make White Pots according 


to thefe Forms... 





signee @ 


Take a quart of good thick cream,boil it with three 
or four blades of large mace,and fome whole cinamon, 
then take the whites of four eggs, and: beat them very 

well, when the cream boils up, put them in, and take 
them offthefire keeping them ftirring a little while,& 
put in fome fugarsthen take five or fix pippins,pare,and 
flice them,then putina pint of claret wine,fome raifins 
ofthe fun,fome fugar,beaten cinamon, and beaten gin. 
gers boil the pippins to pap, then cut fome fippets very 
thin and ‘dry them before the fire; when the apples and 
cream are boil’d & cold,take a the fippets &lay them 

; 4 7 


rit 
a8 


in 





4 





it with blanched almonds and caft on-cinamon, ginger, 


fet 
oe 
Oo 
Bt) 
tap) 
& 
paw) 
mt 
ct 
© 
aa 
oa 
oO 
© 
(ary 
fom 
=, 
ee 
nn 
ny 
s 
O- 
(q?) 
eae 
a 
Sor 
cD 
 : 
3 
Ne 
Eety 
| 
Gana 
ae 
[ om 2 
pe 
ct 
i ot) 


and whole cigamon ; then having boil'da warm ortwa 


take 





y zs ae a 2, yin Ty Line eee > ay 
Pe On Ae 





“The Art and Myftery of Cookery. ‘ie 297 
take the yolks of five or fix eggs paiebaee and put toit, 


A nd Pha ey Gur ae 


being taken from the fire, then take out the cinamon — 


and mace; the cream being pretty thick, flice a fine 
-manchet into thin flices, as much as will cover the bot-. 
tem ofthe difh, pour on the cream on them, and more. 
bread, fome two or three times till the difh be full, 
then trim the difh fide with fine carved fippets, and 
ftick ic with flic’t dates, {crape on fugar, and caft on 
red and white biskets. | , 
sh To make Pap. 

Take milk and flour, ftrain them, and fet it over 
the fire till. it boil, being boil’d, take it off-and let it 
cools then take the yolks of eggs, {train them, and put; 
it in the milk with fome falt, fet icagain on the embers, 
and ftir it tillic be thick, and {tew leifurely, then put it 
in a clean {cowred difh, and feeve it for pottage, or in 
pafte, add to it fugar and rofe-water. 


~ 


To make Blamanger according to thefe Forms. > > 





. "Take acapon being boil’d or rofted & mince it finall 
then have a pound of blanched almonds sine, to a 
oe aq \pafte, 





Pay ge ak yy Oh) en aed 





Woe A Bh tne ae) 
Tiga: ee 
¢ 





Seo et The Accomplifht COOK: Or, ; 
pa{te, and beat thé minced capon amonegtt it, with fome 
-yofe-water, mingle it with f{omecream, ten whites of 
_ eggs, and grated manchet, {train all the forefaid things 
with fome fale, fugar, and a little musk, boil them ina 
pan or broad skillet clean {cowred as thick’ as pap, in 
the botling ftir it continually, being boil’d ftrain ita-: 
gain, and ferve it in pafte in the foregoing forms, or 
made difhes with pafte royal. . SEGUE? 3k ee 
To make your pafte for the forms,take to a quart of 
flour a quarter of a pound of butter, and the yolks of 
four eggs, boil your butter in fair water, and put the 
yolks of the eight eggs on one fide of your difh, make 
up your pafte quick, not too dry, and make ic ftifh 9” 
NS Sit NO iS! Other mpayso OL LO ae 9) he 
- Take‘to a quart of fine flour a quarter of a pound of 
butter,a. quartet of a pound of fugar,a little faffron,rofe- 
water, a little beaten’citiamon, andthe yolk of an egg 
or vee work up all cold together with a lictle almond 





eel * “Blamanger atbermays. 

Takea,boil’d or roft capon, and being cold take off 
the'skis, mince it and beat itin a mortar, with fomeal- 
mond-pafte, then‘mix it<with fome capon broth, and 
drumbs.of manchet, {trained together with fome rofe- 
water) {alt, and fugar ; boil it to a good thicknefS, then 
putit into the pafte of the former forms,of an inch high, 
or in difhes with pafte royal,the pafte being firft baked. 

In this manner you may. make Blamanger of a Pike. 


Other waysen mer 
Boil or rofta capon,mince it,and ftamp it with almond © 
patte, & ftrain it either with capon broth;cream,goats- 
milk, or other-milk, {trainthem withsfome rice Hea 
se ugar, 
















dle dh ond Myptergof So 


efugary and rofewater, boil it in a ipan-like pap, svitha 
dittle musk, and: ftir it continually in the-boiling, then 
put in the forms of pafte.as aforefaid. aa 
Sometimes ufe for change pine-apple-feeds and cut- 
rans, other times putin dates, cinamon, faffron, figs, 
_and raifins being minced together, put them in as it 


okery. 299 


* 


‘boils with-a little fack. 


> 00 = To make Blamanger otherways. ew 
ooMfake halfa pound ‘of fine fearfed_-rice‘flour, and:put 
to it a quart of morning milk, {train ithem through a 
{trainer into a broad skillet; and fec it on a {oft fire, 
{tir it with a broad ftick, and when it isa little thick 
take it from the fire, then put in a quartern of rofe-wa- 
ter, fetit tothe fire again, and ftir ic well, in the ftir- 
ring beat it with the ftick’from the one fide of the pan 
to the other,and whew it is‘asithick as pap, take ic from 
the fire, and putit ina@ait platter, when it is cold lay 
three flices in a dih, and) ferape on fugar. 
apes, erway’. 

Take a caponor a piké and boil it in fair water ve- 
ty tender, then take the pulp of either of them and chop 
it fmall,then take a pound ofblanched almonds beat to. 
apafte,beat the pulp and the almonds together,and put 
to them-a-quart of cream, the whites of ten-eggs; and 
the crumbs of a fine manchet, mingle all together, and 
{train them with fome fugar and falt, put them ina 
clean broad ftew pan, and fer them over the fire, ftir 
ieand boul it thick; being boiled put it into a platter till 
it be cold, ftrain icagain with a little rofe-water, and 
ferve it with fugar. 






en 


Otherways. 
Blanch fome almonds & beat them very fine to a pafte 
with the boil'd pulp of apike or capon, & crums of fine 
Man- 


ay ee 


The Accomplitht COOK : Or. 








manchet, ftrain all together with fugar, and:boil it to 
to the thicknefs of an apple moife, then letit cool,ftrain 
it again witha littlerofe-water, and foferveit == 





To make Blamanger in the Italian fafbion.» ~ 


Boil a Copon in water and falt very tender, orallto — 
math, then Bet Almonds, and ftrain them with your 
Capon-Broth, rice flour, fugar, and rofe-water ; boilit © 
like pap, and ferve it in this form ; fometimes in place 
of Broth ufe Cream. | 2 Mangos 





yy Bae on OTM veh Net Yad Fath hah NYS A 
? ¥ ’ y r 
v al 


ea 


ge The Art and Myftery of Cookery. i 308 





Bien! A Wie AA NM Os Be Oder ora ¢ 2s Ree, 








Section XTIT. 
! OR, 
_ The Firft SeGtion for drefling of F 1s H. 
Shewing divers ways, and the moft excellent, for 


’. Drelfing of Carps , either Boiled,Stewed, Broiled, 
Roafted, or Baked, &c. 





To boil a Garp 12 Corbolion, 

i ies as muck wine as water,and a good handful of 

falt, when it boils, draw the carp and put it in 
the liquor, boilit witha continual quick fire,and being 
boiled, difh it up in a very clean difh with fippets round 
about it,and flict lemon, make the fauce of {weet but- 
ter, beaten up with flic’t lemon and grated nutmeg, 
garnith the difh with beaten ginger. ye 

To boil a Carp the beft way tobe eaten hot. 

. Take a fpecial male carp of eighteen inches,draw it, 
wath out the blood, andlayit inatray, then put 
to it fome wine-vinegar and falr, put the milt to it, the 
gall being taken from it;then have three quarts of white 


i ae: ah SE ae a 


wine or claret,a quart of white wine vinegar,&cfive pints _ 


of fair water,or as much as will cover it ; put the wine, 
water and vinegar,in a fair {Ccowred pan.or kettle,with 


_ ahandful of falt,a quarter of an ounce of large mace,half - 


a quartern of whole cloves, three flic’'d nutmegs,fix Say 
| Pig | on 













The Accompliftt COOK: 


of ginger pared and fliced,a quarter ofan ounce of pep- 
per,four or five great onions whole or fliced ; then make 
a faggot of {weet herbs, of the tops of ftreight {prigs,of 
rofemary,feven or eight bay-leaves, 6 tops of {weetmar- 
- joram,as much of the ftreight tops of time,winter-favo- 
ry, and parfley ; being well bound up,put them into the 
kettle with the fpices, and fome orange and lemon- 
peels; make them boil apace before yow put inthe carp, 
and boil it up quick with a ftrong fire; being finely — 
boil’d and crifp,difh it in a large clean {cowred difhlay 
on the herbs and fpice on the carp, with flic’r lemons — 
and lemon-peels,put fome of the broth to ir, and runit 
over with beaten butter, put fine carved fippets round 
about it,and garnifh the difh with fine fearfed manchet. 
Or you may make faucé for it only with batter beat 
up thick, with flices of lemon, fome of the carp liquor, 
and an anchove or two, and garnifh the dith with beat- 
ten ginger. (CS SEN: 3H 
Or take three of four ahchoves and diffolve them in 
fome white-wihe, put them in a’pipkin with fome flic’t 
horfe-raddifh,grofs pepper,fome of the carp liquor,and 
fome ftewed oyfter liquor,or ftewed oy{ters,large mace,’ 
and a whole onion or two; the fauce being well ftewed,; 
diffolve the yolks of three or four eggs with fome of the 
fauce, and give ita warm or two, pour it on the carp 
with fome beaten butter, the ftewed oyfters and flic't 
lemon, barberries, or grapes. aie 
| RORY TT Pea ae 
~ Diffolve three or four anchoves, with a little’ grated’ 
bread and nutmeg, and give it a warm in fome of the’ 
broth the carp was boiled in,beat it up thick with fome’ 
butter, and a clove of garlick, or pour iton the carp. 
Or make fauce with beaten butter, grape-verjuyce, 
White wine, flic’t lemon, juyce of oranges, juyce of for- 
vel, or White-wine vinegar, Or 





Or dA L 
a 


tes , 








"The Art and Myftery of Cookery. 303 


a Or thus. IO . 
Take white or claret wine, put itina pipkin with 
fome pared or fliced ginger, large mace,dates quartered, 
a pint of great oyfters with the liquor, a little vinegar 
and falt, boil thefe a quarter of an hour, then mince 
a handful of parfley, and fome fweet herbs, boil itas 
much longer till half be confumed,then beat up the fiuce 
With half a pound of butter and a flic’t lemon,and pour 
it onthe carp. | | 

Sometimes for the forefaid carp ufe grapes, barber- 
ries, goofeberries. and horfe-raddifh. ec. | 
To make a Bifque of Garps. | 

Take twelve handfome male carps,and one larger than 
the reft,take out all the milts,and flea the twelve fmall 
carps,cut off their heads,take out their tongues,and take 
the fith from the bones,then take twelve large oyfters 
and three or four yolks of hard eggs minc’d together, fea- 
fon it with cloves, mace, and falt, make thereof a tiff 
fearfe,add thereto the yolks of four or five eggs to bind, 
and fafhion it into balls or rolls as you pleafe,lay them ins 
to a deep difh or earthen pan,and put thereto twenty or 
thirty great oy{ters,two or three anchoves, the milts & 
tongues of the twelve carps,halfa pound of frefh butter, 
the liquor of the oyfters,the juyce of a lemon or two, a 
little white wine, fome of the corbolion wherein the 
great carp is boil’d, & a whole ofiion,fo fet them a ftew- 
ing ona foft firé, and make a foop therewith. For the 
great carp you muft {cald, draw him, -and lay him for 
half an hour with other carps heads in a deep pan, with 
as much white wine vinegar as will cover and ferve to 
boil him & the other heads in,then put therein pepper, 
whole mace,a race of ginger, flictnutmeg, falt,fweert 
herbs,an onion or two flic’t,8¢ a emon;when you have 
boiled the carps pour thie liquor with the {pices into the 

et- 








. g04° = The Accomplifht COOK: Or, 7 


kettle where you boil him,when it boils put in the carp; 
and let it not boil too faft for breaking, after the car 
hath boil’d a while put in the heads, and being boil’d, 
take off the liquor and let the carps and the heads keep 
warm in the kettle till you go to difh them. When you 
__drefs the bisk take a large filver dith, fet ic on the fire, 
Jay therein flices of French bread, andfteep it with a 
Jadle full of the corbolion, then take up the great carp 
and lay him in the midft of the difh, range the twelve 
heads about the carp,then lay the fearfé of the carp, lay 
 thatinto the oyfters, milts, and tongues, and pour on 
the liquor wherein the fearfe was boild, wring inthe 
juyce ofa lemonand two oranges, and ferve it very hot 
tothetable. meyy 
To make a Bish with Garps and other feveral Fifhes. 
Make the corbolion for the Bisk of fome Jacks or {mall 
Carps boil’d in half white-wine and fair {pring-water ; 
fome cloves, falt,and mace, boil it down to jelly, ftrain 
it,and keepit warm for to {cald the bisk;then take four 
carps,four tenches,four perches,two pikes,two eels flay: 
edand drawn ;_ the carps being {calded, drawn,and cut 
into quarters,the tenches {calded and left whole,alfo the 
pearches and the pikes all finely {calded, cleanfed, and 
cut into twelve pieces,three of each fide,then put them 
intoa large f{tewing-pan with three quartsof claret- 
Wine,an ounce of large mace, a quarter ofan ounce of 
cloves, half an ounce of pepper,a quarter of an ounce of 
ginger pared & flic’t,{weet herbs chopped {mall,as ftrip- 
ped time, favory, {weet marjoram, parfley; rofemary, 
three or four bay-leaves, falt,chefnuts, piftaches,five or 
fix great onions, and {tew all together ona quick fire: 
Then ftew a pottle of oy{ters the greateft y ou can get; 
parboil them in their own liquor,cleanfe them from the 
dregs, aad wafh them in warm water from the stots 
| and 








eae 


| The Art and Myftery of Cookery. =. 305 
and fhells, put them into a pipkin with three o# four 
great onions peeled, then take large mace,and a little of 
their own liquor,or a little wine vinegar,or white wine. 

~_ Next take twelve flounders being drawn and cleanfed 
from the guts, fry them in clarified butter with a hun- 
dred of large {melts, being fryed {tew them in 2 ftew- 

pan with claret-wine, grated nutmeg, {flic’t orange, 








Utieeiead Malt n-\- cy aes A} 
Then have a hundred of prawns; boiled, picked, and 
SEC, DEAIVEd.err) finer: on Coy 
Next, bottoms of artichocks, boiled, blanched, and 
put in beaten butter, grated nutmeg, falt,whité-wine, | 
skirrets, and fparagus in the forefaid facuce. | 
Then mince a pike and.an eel,cleanfe them, and fea- 
fon them with cloves, mace, pepper, falt, fome fweer 
erbs minct,fome piftaches,barberries,grapes,or goofe- 
berries, fome grated manchet, and yolks of raw eggs, 
mingle all the forefaid things together, and make it in- 
to balls, or farfe fome cabbidge lettice, and bake the 
balls inan oven, being baked ftick the balls with pine: 
apple feeds,and piftaches, as 2lfo the lettice. _ 
, Thenall the forefaid things being made ready, have 4 
large clean {cowred difh;with large fops of French bread 
lay the carps upon them,and between them fome tench, 
pearch,pike,and eels; & the ftewed _oyftetes all over the ’ 
other fifh,then the fried flounders & {melts over the oy- 
{ters,then the balls & lettice ftuck with piftaches,the ar- 
tichocks,skirrets,fparagusybutter prawns, yolks of hard 
eggs large mace,tryed {melts, grapes,flic t lemon, oran- 
ges,red beets or pomegranats,broth it with the leer that 
was made for it, and run it over with beaten butter. 
tee The beft-waytoftewaCarp. . ,  . 
Drefs the carp and take out the milt, putit in a dith 
with then earp,and take oe the gall,the fave the arya 
‘an 








and {cotch the carp on the back with your knife; if the 
carp be eighteen inches,take a quart of claret or white. 
wine, four or five blades of large mace, 10 cloves, two 
good races of ginger flic’t,two flic’t nutmegs,and a few 
{weet herbs,as the tops of {weet marjoram, time,favo- 
ry, and parfley chopped very f{mall, four great onions 
whole,three or four bay-leaves,and fome falt;ftew them 
all together in a ftew-pan or clean fcowred kettle with 
the wine, when the pan boils put in the carp with 
a quarter of a pound of good {weet butter, boil it ona 
quick fire of charcoal, and being well ftew'd down, difh 
itina clean large difh, pour the fauce on it with the 
{pices, lay onflic’t lemon and lemon-peel, or barberries, 
grapes,or goofeberries,and run it over with beaten but- 
ter, garnifh the difh with dryed manchet grated and 
fearfed, and carved fippets laid round the difh. 

In feafts the carps being {cal'd, garnifh the body with | 
ftewed oyfters, fome fryed in white batter, fome in 
green made with the juyce of fpinage: fometimes in 
place of fippets ufe fritters of arms, fomtimes horfe-rad- 
difh, and rub the difh with a clove or two of garlick, 

For more variety,in the order abovefaid, fometimes 
diffolve an anchove or two, with fome of the broth it 
was ftewed in,and the yolks of two éggs diffolved with 
fome verjuyce,wine,or juyce of orange; fometimes add 
fome capers, and hard eggs chopped, as alfo fiveer 
herbs, ec, | 

To fer a Carp 1n the French falbion, 

Take a Carp,fplic it down the back alivej& put icin 
boiling liquor, then take.a good large diflror ftew:pan 
that will contain the carp;put'in'as mutch claret wine ag 
will cover it,and wath ‘off thé blood, take out the carp, 
and put into the wine in the difh ‘three or four flict on- 

~ @ns,three or four blades of large mace,grofs i 
Mis fF: 















< pict laden oneh 





“The Art and Myftery of Cookery. 307 
falt; when the ftew-pan boils put in the carp and cover 
it clofe, being well ftewed down, difh it up in a clean 
feowred difh with fine carved fippets round about it; - 
pour the liquor it was boiled in on it, with the {pices; 
onions, flict lemon, and lemon-peel, run it over with 
ae butter, and garnifh the difh with dryed grated 
read. 

Another moft excellent waytoftewaCarp, . . 
-Takea carpand {cale it,being well cleanfed and dried 
with a clean cloth, then fplit it and fry ic in clarified 
butter,being finely fryed put it in a deep difh with two. - 
or three {poonfuls of claret wine,grated nutmeg,a blade 
or two of large mace, falt, three or four flices of an 
orange,and fome fweet butter,fet it ona chafing dith of 
coals, cover it clofe, and ftew it up quick, then turni, 
and being very well ftew’d,difh it on fine carv’d fippets, 
run it over with the fauce it was ftewed in, the {pices, 
beaten butter, and the flices of a frefly orange, and gar- 
nifh the difh with dry manchet grated and {earfed. 

In this way you may ftew any good fith,as foles, lob- 
fters, prawns, oyfters, or cockles. 


, OHTIOD I ee a cya tga 
Take a carp and {cale it, {crape off the flime with a 
knife and wipeit clean with a dry cloth; then draw it, 
and wafh the blood out with fome claret wine into the 
pipkin where you ftew it,cut it into quarters,halves, or 
whole, and put it into a broad mouthed pipkin or éar-. 
bie put to it as much wine as water, a bundle of 
eet herbs, fome raifins of the fun, currans,large mace; 
cloves;whole cinamon flic’t ginger, falt,and {ome prunes 
boiled and ftrained; put in alfo fome ftrained: bread or 
flour,and ftew them all rogether ; being ftewed,difh the 
carp ina clean fcowred difh 08 fine carved vi cipout ats 
ee: @ 


I 





Orherways. 


Do it as before, fave only no currans, put prunes — 


~ ftrained, beaten pepper, and fome faffron. 


s To few a Garp feven feveral ways. » oe 

1. Take a carp,fcale it,and {crape off the flime,wipe 
_ it witha dry cloth, and give it a cut or two crofs the © 

back, then put it a boiling whole,parted down the back 
in halves,or quarters, put it in a broad mouthed pipkin 
with fome claret or white-wine,fome wine-vinegar,and 
good frefh fifth broth or fome fair water, three or four — 
blades of large mace, fome flict onions fryed, currans, 
and fomeé good butter 5 cover up the pipkin,and being — 

finely ftewed,put in iome almond-milk,and fome {weet 
herbs finely minced,or fome grated manchet,and being — 
well ftewed,ferve it up on fine carved fippets, broth it, 
and garnifh the difh with fome barberries or grapes, 
and the difh with forme ftale manchet grated and fears’d, 
being firftdryed. be ee | 
2. For the forefaid broth, yolks of hard eggs ftrain- 
ed with fome {teeped manchet, fome. of the broth it is 
ftewed in, anda little faffron. “ate Len 
3. For variety of garnifh,carrots in dice-work, fome 
raifins, large mace, a few prunes,and marigold flowers, 
boil’d in the forefaid broth. RET aa” Re 
4. Or leave out carrots and fruit,and put famphire and 
capers, and thicken it with French barley tender boil’d. 
5. Or no fruit,but keep the order aforefaid, only ad- 
ding {weet marjoram, ftrippedtyme,parfley,and favory, 
bruife them with the back of a ladle,and put them into 
the broth.. | Gah AP ae 
6. Other- 









7%, “ # a 8 i “Ss a 


* 


The Art a 





nd Myftery of Cookery. i 209 


6. Otherways, ftewed oyfters togarnifhthe carp,and — 
fome boil’é bottoms of artichocks, put them to the 
ftewed oyfters or skirrets being boil’d, grapes, barber- 
ries,and the broth thickned with yolks of eggs ftrained 
with fome fack, white wine, or caper liquor. — 

7. Boil it.as before, without fruit, and addtoit ca- 
pers, carrots in dice-work,mace, faggot of {weet herbs, — 
{lic’t onions chopp’d with parfley,and boil’d in the broth 
then have boil’d colliflowers, turnips,par{nips,{paragus, 
or chefnuts in place of carrots, and the leire {trained 
with yolks of eggs and white wine. Af 





To make French Herb Pottage for Fafting Days. 


Take half a handful of lettice,as much of iba ean 
as much of Buglofs and Borrage,two handfuls of forrel, 
a little parfley, fage, a good handful of purflain, halfa 
pound of butter, fome pepper and falt, and fometimes, | 
fome cucumbers. 


Other Broth or Pottage of a Garp. 


Take acarp,fcale it, and {crape off the flime, wath it, 
and wipe it with aclean-cloth,then draw it,and putitin , 
a broad mouthed pipkin that will contain it,put to it a 
pint of. good white or claret wine, and as much good 
frefh fifh broth as will cover it, or as much fair water, 
with the blood of the carp, four or five blades of large 

“mace, a little beaten pepper, fome flic’t onions, a clove 
or two, fome {weet herbs chopped, a handful of capers, 
and fome falt,ftew all rogether,the carp being well ftew- 
ed, put infome almond pafte, with fome white-wine, 
give ita warm or two with {ome {tewed oyfter-liquor, 
&fervea onFrench bread in it fair {cowr’ddifh,pour on 
the liquor, and garnifh i with dryed grated pach 

. t 3 | @ 









To dre{s a Garp in Stoffado, — ae 


Take a carpalive, fcale it, and lard it witha good 
falt eel, fteep it in claret or white-wine, in anearthen 
pan, and put to it fome wine-vinegar, whoie cloves, 
large mace, grofs pepper, flic’t ginger, and four or five 
cloves of garlick,then have an earthen pan that will con- 
tain it, ora large pipkin, put to it fome fweet herbs, 
three or four fprigs of rofemary, as many of time and 
{weet marjoram, twoor three bay-leaves and parfley, 
put the liquor toit into the pan or pipkin wherein you 
will ftew it, and pafte on the cover, ftew it in the oven, 
in an hour it will be baked, then ferve it hot for dinner 
or fupper, ferve it on fine carved fippets of French 
bread, and the {pices on it, with herbs, {lic’t lemon and 
lemon peel ; and run it over with beaten butter, 
To halh a Garp. 


ie 


Take a carp, fcale,and {crape off the flime with your 
knife, wipe it witha dry cloth, bone it, and mince it 
with a freth water eel being flayed and boned;feafon it 
with beaten cloves, mace, falt, pepper,and fome fweer 
herbs, as tyme,parfley, andfome {weet marjoram min- 

ced very {mall, {tew it ina broad mouthed pipkin,with 
fome’claret wine, goofeberries, or grapes, and fome 
blanched chefnuts 5 being finely ftewed, ferve it on 
carved fippets about it,and run it over with beaten but- 
ter, garnith the difh with fine grated manchet fearfed, 
and fome fryed oyftersin butter, cockles, or pawns. — 
- Sometimes for variety,ufe piftaches ; pine-apple-feeds, 
‘or fome blanch’t almonds ftew’d amongft the hath, or 
afparagus,or artichock boil’d & cut as big as chefnuts,8< 
garnifh the difh with fcraped horfe-radifh, and ub the 
eee : ee Wg + hilly DEG 08 \ 2 ’ , te 





iy 
¥ dP 


The Art and Myftery of 


ney 
of AM AP Pd ae { #Y 
Wy 








Cookery. | QI 
Neeeee ee eee eae SE | ena an nena ansceeoE 
bottom of the difh in which you ferve the meat, with 
aclove or two of garlick. Sometimes mingle it with 
fome ftewed oyfters, or put to it fome oyfter-liquor. 


To marinate a Garp to be eaten hot or cold, 


Take a carp,fcale it, and {crape off the slime, wipe it 
clean witha dry cloth, and fplicic down the back,flous 
it,and fry it in {weet fallet oy], or good clarified butter; 
being fine and crifp fryed, lay\ic in a deep difh or ear- 
then pan, then have fome white or claret wine, or 
wine-vinegar, put itin a broad mouthed pipkin with 
all manner of {weet herbs bound up ina bundle, as 
rofemary, tyme, {weet marjoram, parfley, winter-{avo- 
ry, bay-leaves, forrel, and fage, as much of oneas the o- 
ther, pucit into the pipkin with the wine, with fome 
Jarge mace, flict ginger, gro{s pepper, flic’t nutmeg, 
whole cloves, and falt, with as much wine and vinegar 
as will cover the fith, then boil the {pices and wine with 
fome falt a little while;pour it on the filh hor,and pre- 
fently cover it clofe to keep in the {pirits of the liquor, 
herbs,and {pices for an hours {pace ; then have flic’t le- 
mons, lemon-peels, orange and orange peels, lay them 
over the fifh in the pan,and cover it up clofe ; when you 
ferve them hot lay on the {pices and herbs all about it, 
with the flic’t lemons,oranges,and their peels,and run it 
over with fweet fallet oyl,(or none) but fome of the li- 
quor it is fouft in. | 

Or marinate the carp or carps without {weet herbs 
for hot orcold, only bay-leaves, in all points elfe as is 
abovefaid ; thus you may marinate foles, orany other 

-fith, whether fea or frefh-water fith. | 

Or barrel it,pack it clofe, and it will keep as long as 
fturgeon, and as good, | | 
a | 26 Cy Ta 


- med 










a 


“ ot , & ee ae ae parle Lk Z 

ads 8 Ne Phas, Py ea! ae Pas SOK 
To broil or toa? a Garp divers ways, either in feet 

| , Butter or Sallet Oyl. 30 BSW 21; 

_ Takea carp alive, draw it, and wafh out the blood 

in the body. wich claret wine into: a difh, put to it 

fome wine vinegar and oy!, then {crape off the flime, 


é& wipe it dry both outfide & infide, lay icin the difh . 


with vinegar, wine, oyl, falt, and the ftreight {prigs of 
rofemary and parsley, let it fteep there the {pace ofan 
hour or two, then broil icon a clean {cowred gridiron, 


( or toaft itbefore the fire ) broil iton a foft fire, and’ 
turn it often;beingfinely broil’d;terve itona clean fcow= 
red difh, with the oy], wine, and vinegar,being ftew’d 


on the coals, put it to the fith, the rofemary and parf= 
ley round the’ difh, and fome about the fith, or with 
beaten butter and‘vinegar, or butrer.and verjuyce, or 
juyce of oranges beaten with the butter, or juyce ofle- 
mons, garnifh the fifth with slices oforange, lemon,and 
branches of rofemary boil the mile or {pawn by it felf 


and Jay it in the difh with the Carp. | 


- Or make fauce otherways with beaten butter, oyfter 
liquor, the blood ofthe carp, grated nucmeg, juyce of 
orange, white-wine, or wine’ vinegar boil’d:together; 


crumbs of bread, and the yolk of an egg boiled up pret: 
ty thick, andrun it over the fifhy 1 yi 
To broil a Garp te Staffado. rat dei ers: 

Take a live carp, {cale it,and {crape off'the slime, wipe 
it clean’with a‘dry cloth, andidraw ic, ‘wath out the 
blood, arid fteep it in claret, white-wine,wine-vinegar, 


large mace, whole cloves,two or three cloves of garlick, 





fome slic’t ginger,grofs pepperjand {alts fteep ic in this — 


éompofition in a diih or tray the {pace of two hours,then 
broil it on a clean {coured gridiron.ona fott fire,8obafte 
; . op an Lat it ; 


GWiee ys i kb 


‘ _ » 





The Art and Myftery of Cookery. on a , 


it with fome {weet {alletoyl,f{prigs of rofemary, time, 

-_parfley, fweet marjoram, and two or three bay-leaves 

being finely broil’d;ferve it with the fauce itwas fteep- 
ed in,boil’d up on the fire witha little oyfter-liquor,the. 
fpices'on it, and herbs round about it on the aith, run it 

ever with fauce, either with fweet fallet oyl, or good 

beaten butter, and broil the milt or {pawn by it felf 


To voaft a°Carp, , ae 
Take a livecarp,draw and wath it,and take away the 
gall, and. milt, or fpawn;. then make a pudding with 
fome grated manchet, fomealmond-pafte, cream, cur- 
rans,grated nutmeg, raw yolks of eggs, fugar,caraway- 
feed candied,or any peel, {ome lemon and falt, makea, 
ftiff pudding and put it through the gills into the belly, 
of the carp,neither fcale it,nor fill it too full; then fpic. 
it,and rouftit in the oven upon two or threefticks crofs 
a brafs dith, turn it and let the gravy drop into the difh; 
being finely roaftedjmake fauce with the gravy , butter 
juyce of orange or lemon,fome fugar,and cinamon, beat. 
up the fauce thick with the butter, and difh the carp, 
put the fauce over it with flices of lemon. ‘ners 
| therways. ‘i 
Scale it,and lard it with falt eel,pepper, and. nutmeg, 
then make a pudding of fome minced eel,roach,or dace,. 
fome {weet herbs, grated bread, cloves, mace, nutmeg, 
pepper,falt,yolks of eggs,piftaches,che{nuts,and the milt. 
of the carp parboil’d and cut into dice-work, as alfo 
Se frefh eel, and mingle it amongft the pudding o 
BHLes ori my, + ! 
Sauces for Roaft Carp. “eiber 
1. Gravy and oyfter liquor,beat it up thick with {weet 
butter, claret wine, nutmeg, flices. of orange, and fome | 
capers, and give iC-a warm or two. . 


eg Bea- 








i Ye Mi a, Vie = ie ; 
ReMi Mee y Oe eae EM hati” MO far es) i : ra 
*Y ‘i i oie : amen cs ° dibyoo 5 
i + ser Ps ie Ih oS al ‘ twa 4 » at RP : 
- 1 a ¢ as * =, oes . 
314 4 Pree = 4 4 GEE PEEL ESE P a ie it eo on rs, + & 
. Pi . } ; : 
3 af ¢ : : A ‘ + 
~ : & — 











> 


the juyce of them only. Peo es te ie 
3. Butter, claret-wine, grated nutmeg, felt, flices of 
orange, a little wine-vinegar andthe gravy. = 
4. A little white-wine, gravy ofthe carp,an anchove 
or twodiflolved in it, fome grated nutmeg, and alittle 
rated manchet, beat them up thick with fome fweet: 
utter, and the yolk of an egg or two, difh the carp, 
and pour the fauce on it. es. 


2, Beaten butter with flices of orange, and lemon,or 


an To make a Garp Pye a moft excellent way. 


~ Take carp, {cale it and {crape off the flime, wipe it 
with a dry clean cloth, and fplit it down the back;then 
cutit in quarters or fix pieces, three of each, and take 
out the mile or fpawn, as alfo' the gall; feafon it with 
nutmeg, pepper, falc, and beatén’ginger, lay fome bur- 
ter in the pye bottom, thea the carp upon it, andupon’ 
the carp two or three bay-leaves, four or five blades of 
large mace, four or-five whole-cloves, fome blanched’ 
chefnuts, slices of orange, and fome fweet butter, clofe: 
it up and bakeit,being baked liquor it with beaten but- 
ter, the blood of the carp; and alittle claret- wine. 

- For variety, in place of chef{nuts, ufe pine appleteeds, 
or bottoms of artichocks, goofeberries, grapes, or bar- 
berries. Sometimes bake great oyfters with the carp, 
and a great onion or two ; fometimes {weet herbs chop- 
ped, or fparagus boiled’) 9 Tag OF 
~~ Or bake it ina difh as you do the pye. 6 9 

To make pafte for the pie, take two quarts anda 
pint of fine flour, four or five yolksof raw eggs,and half 
a pound of fine flour; four or five y olks of raw eggs,and 
halfa pon of {weet butter, boil the butter till it be 
melted, and make the pafte with it. - ~ eMK1G9 


“ wis 


65 a . By So ee 
ey a vt mal a Tg 





Pate fora Florentine of Garps madein a duh or patty-pan. 


Take a pottle of fine flour,three quarters of a pound 
of butter, and fix yolks of eggs,and work up the butter, 
eggs, and flour, dry them, then put to it as much fair 
{pring water cold as will make it up into pafte, - 


Th bake a Garp otherways to be heaten hot. 


.. Takea carp, fcaleitalive, and {crape off the flime, 
draw it, and take away thegall and guts, {cotch it, an 
feafon it with nutmeg, pepper,and fale lightly, lay it into 
the pye, and put the mile into the belly, then lay on 
flic’t dates in halves, large mace,orange,or flic’t lemon, 
goofeberries, grapes, or barberries, raifins of the fun, 
and butters clofeit up and bake it, being almoft baked 
liquor it with verjuyce, butter, fugar, claret or white- 
wine,and iceit, ._.. mas 
Sometimes make a pudding in the carps belly, make 
it of grated bread, pepper, nutmegs, yolks of eggs, 
f{weetherbs, currans, fugar, goofeberries, grapes, - or 
barberries, orangado, dates, capers, piftaches, raifins, 
and fome minced freth eel, 
Or bake it inadifh or patty pan in cold butter pafte. 
| To bake a Carp with Oyfers. 

Scale a carp,fcrape off the flime,and bone it ; then cut 
it into large dice-work,as alfo the milt being parboil’d; 
then have fome great oyfters parboil’d, mingle them 
with the bits of carp, and feafon them together with 
beaten pepper,falt, nutmeg, cloves,mace, grapes,goofe- 
berries or barberries, blanched chefnuts, and piftaches, 
feafon them lightly , then put in the bottom of the piea 
good big onion or two whole,fill the pye,and lay upon 


“The Art and Myftery of Cookery. = 315. 








ath & 


ie bake a Garp minced with an Eelin the Erench Fa- | 


Sometimes liquor it with verjuyce and theyolks of — 


\ 


we 


4 















Yo bake a Carp according to thefe Forms to be eaten hot. - 
8 c ¥ a 5 x ¢ a a) 4 coe - ee 








. i. 
<-997s* gh fae < on es is 
* Baers ' ; > 

“* 


al os ‘ 


> 
~ . a Se 


ind cut it into dice-work,the milt being parboil’d,cut it 
to the fame form, ‘then have fome great oyftérs par- 
boild and cutinto the fame form alfo; put to it fome’ 
eesics or barberriés, the bottoms of arti- 
il the yolks of hard egs in quarters,boild,{pa- 
agus cut an inc long,and fome piftaches,feafonall the 
orefaid things together with pepper, nutmegs,and falt,. 
ll the pyes,clofe them up,and bake them,being baked, 
iquor them with butter ,white-wine,and {ome blood of 
ecarp, boil them together; or beaten butter, with 
yce of oranges. | Lh Ge cis Sie ae 
7 To bake a Carp with Eels to be eaten cold. | 
Take four large carps,{cale them & wipe off the flime 
lean,bone them,and cut each fide into two pieces of e- 
yery.carp,then have four large frefh water SESS, 
Bends sree | iene 22. bored: 


ae 


Sig RA yy Myo RO aspen aaa 


' Take 4 carp,{cale it, and {crape off the flime, bone it 








Accomplifht COOK: Or, 

boned, flayed,and cut in as Many pe. cs as the carpsfey 

fon them with nutmeg, ¢ >per, and fale; then have 2 
pye ready,either round or igi: e,put butter in the bor. 
tom of it, then lay a lay of eci, and a lay of carp upon | 
that, and thus do till you have enac:' ; then lay on fome 
large mace and whole cloves on the top,fome fliced nut. 
meg, fliced ginger, and butter, clofe ic up and bake it, 


being baked and cold, fill it up with clarified butter, 
ee ioueh yt : Otheriways. 


=~ Take eight carps, fcale and bone them, fcrape and 
+ = _ wath off the flime, wipe them dcyand mince them ve: 
-* ry fine, then have four good freflt water eels; flay and 
bone them, and cut them into lardas big as your finger, 
>|» then have pepper,cloves,mace,and ginger feverally bea- 
~.~ss-* ten and mingled with fome falt, feafon the fith and al- 
= -* — fo the eels, cut into lard $ then make a pye according 
_* .--~ to this form, lay.fome butter in the bottom of the pye, 
oe: ss, then alay of carpupon the butter, fo fill i, clofe it up 








~~ and bake it 
fx" @ + oo hig 
~ Pie e™ Rig % * # et Y 4 +4 . me Pr; a ta F - ay tt é rir 
ee j = io ean NS ES Bid £75 Fa Ke ae * Wide oe fh 4 hte eee res 
ode + fy ey “ “> oh < ed Gf 
a % an wet tg sh So se ic . i 
: i be mn a OA ge oh? Qos ~~ ge 1 et ao 
“i oO os Te 7 7 rar ® : i 8 Pe 
: yea ts 4 SM BHD 4 neo 
bad a hy Sere =i Pas 
Lak ea? aes 
. Sp tee 
2 1 OL 2S alk SE 
* 
Pd me. oo . 
oc fa 4 +e >> ==" 4 
5 act oh ro 5 
“? Z 
* 





° ae - 8 a, a 





The Art and Myftery of Cookery. B19: 


Sedion XIV. am 





ce OR, 


The Second Sedion of FISH. — 
S Nie ' é ref as 


sheming the mof Excellent W. ays : ick 
oiwesiof Dreffing of Pikes... 7 33 : 


4 mre 
iz 3 


~ 


a fs 4a — . 


\ 
ee 
eee Si atae 





. “- 2 - 
~ 
Ld 


ripe soni: x) sf Labelle Pike 9 rot py op 
\ \ 7 Ath him very clean, then trufs him either round 
Whole, with his tail in his mouth, and his ae 
cotched,or {platted and truft round likeahart,with his 
ail in his mouth,or in three pieces,& divide the middle 
Niece into two pieces; then boil it in water,falt,and vi- 
egar,put it not intill the liquor boils,& let it boil very 
{tat firftto make it crifp,but afterwards foftly;for the 
auce, put in a pipkin a pint of white wine, flic’t ginger, . 
nace,dates quartered,a pint of great oyfters with the li- 
wor,a little vinegar and falt, boil them a quarter of an 
jour;then mince a few fweet herbs & parfley,ftew them 
ill-half the liquor’ be confumed 5 then the pike, being 
oiled: dih it, and garnifh the difh with grated dry man- 
het:fine fearfed,or ginger fine beaten, then beat up the 
auce, with half a pound of butter, minced lemon, or 
range, put iton the pike; and fippet ic with cuts of 


rs 


Y 





: ae te < oan : ~ i ‘ 4+ 4 ° . 3 : x o E * ‘ a rays, 
‘ eee 22% 2S)" Yo boil a Pike otherways. 


bax 


x Bao - ‘The ‘Accomplifht COOK: Or, ; 





~- paff-pafte or lozenges fome fried greens, and fome vel. 
dow butter. Dith it according to thefe forms. | ie 


Pe) ¥ 





YS 


Take a male pike alive,{plat him in halves,take ouit 


~~ his mile and civet, and take away the gall, cut the fides 


;~ => into three pieces ofa fide, lay them in_a large dith or 
-_ stray, and put upon them half'a. pint of white wine vi- 
eos” fegar, an half a handful ef bay-fale beaten fine ;‘then 


“have aclean {cowred pan fet over the fire with as much 


~~~ rhenifh or white-wine as will cover the pike,fo fet it on. 


pied" + 
a 


2s the fire with fome falt,tcwo flic’t nutmegs,two races of 
=, ginger flic’t,two good big onions flic’t, five or fix cloves 
= Of garlik,two or three tops of {weet marjoram, thrée or 


ur ftreight {prigs of rofemary bound up in a bundle 


 dlofeand the peel of half lemons et chefe boil with 


a quick fire, then put in the pike with the vinegar, and 
>. .-boilitup quick; whileft the pike is boiling take a quar- 
_ x, terofa pound ofanchoves, wafh and bone them, then 


y**-» 5 mince themand put them ina pipkin with a quarter of 


‘Z 


~. © -@pound of butter, and 3 or four {poonfuls of the liquor 


bs eee ~the pike was boiled in; the pike being boiled dih it,& 


~~ lay the ginger, nutmegs, and herbs uponic, run it over 


~~. 4with the fauce, and caft dried fearfed manchet on it. 


~~ =? This forefaid liquor is far better to boil another pike; 


- < BY renewing the liquor with alittle wine S 
pe te Be ear Fo 


SB 7.) § 
adie =f 


we inst a 


Fhe Art and Myftery of Cookery. 321 


Toboil a Pike and Eel together. : 


Take a quart of white-wine, pint and a halfof white’ 


wine vinegar;two quarts of water,almoft a pint of fale, 


ahsix'fal of rofemary and tyme,let your liquor boil be- 


fore you put in your fith, the herbs, a litcle large mace, - 


and fome twenty corns of whole pepper: 


To boil a Pike atherways. 


ay 


Boil it in water, faltjand wine vinegar,two parts wa- ~ 


ter, and one vinegar; being drawn, fet onthe liquor. to 
boil, cleanfe the civet, and trufS himround, fcotch his 
back, and when the liquor boils, putin the fith and boil 
it up quick ; then‘make fauce with fome white-wine 


vinegar,mace, whole pepper, a good handful of cockles - 


broiled or boiled out of the fhells, and wafhed with vi- 
negar;a faggot of fweet herbs,the liver {tamped and put 


4 


to it,and horfe-raddith {craped or flic’t,boil all che fore - 


faid together; difh the pike on fippets; and beat up the 
fauce with fome good {weet butter and minced lemon; 


make the fauce pretty thick,and garnifhitas you pleafe; 


Take as much white-wine andwater as will cover it}. 


of each a like quantity,and a pint of vinegar,put to this 
liquor half an ounce of large mace; two lemon-peels; 
2 quarter of an ounce of whole cloves, three flic’t nut- 
megs, four races of ginger flic’t, fome fix great onions 


flic’t,a bundle of fix or feven {prigs or tops of rofemary, — 


a§ rhuch of tine, wintet-favory, and {weet marjoram 
bound up hard ina faggor,.. put into the liquor alfo a 
good handful of falt,and when it boils,put in the fith bes 
wig cleanfed and truffed, and boil icup quick... | 


‘ & 
ae ‘ 


Being boiled,make the fauce with fome of thé broth - 


tia - aati eee oe ea 
kOe, 


‘The Art and 





} To Loil a Pike and Eel ie kn a A 
. Takea quart of white-wine,a pint anda halfof white. 
_ Wine vinegar;two quarts of water,almoft.a pint of fale, 
a handful of rofemary and tyme,let your liquor boil be- 
fore you put in your fifh, the herbs; a little large mace, — 
| and {ome twenty corns of whole pepper: | : 


M Lyte j of 





To boil a Prke otherways: | 

Boil it in water,falt,and wine vinegar,two parts wa- 
ter, and one vinegar, being drawn, fet onthe liquor to 
boil, cleanfe the civet, andtruf$ himround, fcotch his 
back, and when the liquor boils, put in the fifh and boil 
it up quick ; then make fauce with fome white-wine 
vinegar,mace, whole pepper, a good handful of cockles 
broiled or boiled out of the fhells, atid wafhed with vi- 
negara faggot of {weet herbs,the liver ftamped and put 
to it,and horfe-raddifh {craped or flic’t,boil all the fore- ~ 
faid together; difh the pike on fippets, and beat up the 
fauce with fome good {weet butter and minced lemon, 
make the fauce pretty thick,and garnifhitas you pleafe.” 


$ Otherways; bos bay 
Take as much white-wine and water as will cover it, 
of each a like quantity,and a pint of vinegar,put to this 
liquor half an ounce of large mace, two lemon-peels, 

- a quarter of an ounce of whole cloves, three flic’t nut- 
megs, four races of ginger flic’t; fome fix great onions 
flic’t,a bundle of fix or feven fprigsor topsofrofemaryy , 
as much of time, winter-favory, and {weet marjoram | 
bound up hard ina faggot, put into the liquor alfoa 
good handful of falt,and when it boils,put in the fifh be- 
ing Cleanied and trufléd, and boil it up quick, = 

Being boiled,make the ate with fome of the broth 


where 






where the pike was boiled,and put it in a dith with twé 
or three anchoves a cleanfed and minced, a little 


white wine,fome grated nutmeg, and fome fine grated 


manchet,ftew it on.a chafing difh, and beat it up thick 
with fome fweet butter,and the yolk of an egg or two 


diflolved with fome vinegar,give it a warm, and put to 


it three or four flices of lemon. | 
Then difh the pike, drain the liquor from it upon a 
chafing-difh of coals, pour on the fauce,and garnifh the 


~ fifth with flic’t lemons,and the fpices, herbs, and boil’d 
onions, run it over with beaten butter, and lay on fome 
barberries or grapes. 


difh fcraped, or the juyce of it. 


To boil a Pike tn White Broth 3: iy 

- Cut your pike in three pieces, then boil it in water, 
falt, and fweet herbs, put in the fifh when the liquor 
boils; then take the yolks of fix eggs,beat them with a 


Sometimes for change you may put fome horfe-rad- 


_ little fack, fugar, melted butter, and fome of the pike 


broth then put it on fome embers to keep warm, ftir it 
fometimes left it curdle;then take up your pike,put the 
head and tail together in a clean difh, cleave the other 
piece in two, and take out the back-bone, put the one 
piece on one fide,and the other piece on the other fide, 
but blanch all, pour the broth on it,and garnith the fith 
with fippets, {trow on fine ginger or fugar, wipe the 
edge of the difh round, and ferve it, g 


To Boila Pike inthe French Fafbion, a-la-Sances d AL 
maigne pr inthe German Fafhion . 


Take a pike,draw him,drefs the rivet,and cut himin 
three pieces,boil him in as much wine-as nee fome 
| emon; 


ay 


Peg ee ae ge po ree ee ANE Ree MME Rie ? 
eae a ee ee eee 
The Art and Myftery of Cookery. —- 32. 


Jemon-peel, with the liquor boils put in the fith with a 
good handful of falt, and boil himupquick, = 
__ Then havé a fauce made of beaten butter, water,the 
flices of two or three lemons,the yolks of two or three 
eggs, and fome grated nutmeg ; the pike being boiled 
dith it on fine fippets,and ftick it with fome fried bread 
run it over with the fauce, fome barberries or lemon, 
and garnifh the difh with fome pared and {lic’t ginger, 





barberries;and lemon peel. 


. Lo boil a Prke inthe City Faftion, 

Take a live male pike, draw him and flit the rivet; _ 
wath him clean from the blood,and lay him in a difh or 
tray, then put fome falt and vinegar to it,( of no vine- 
gar; but only falt 3. then fer ona kettle with fome wa- 
ter & falt,& when it boils put in the pike,boil it foftly; 
and being boiled,take it off the fire,and put a little but, 
ter into the kettle to it; then makea {auce with beaten 
butter, the juyce of alemon or two, grape verjuyceo 
Wine-vinegar,difh up the pike on fine carved fippets,and 
pour on the fauce,garnifh the fifth with {calded parfley; 
_Jarge mace barberries, flic’t lemon,and lemon-peel,and 

garnifh the difh with the fame. | 


To ftew a Pike in the French Fafbions .. | 

. Take a pike,fplat it down the back alive; and let the 

liquor boil before you put it in, then takéa large deep 
difh or ftewing pan that will contain the pike, put as 

much Pee ic as will cover it, & wath off the blood 
take out the pike, and put to the wine in the difh three _ 
or four flic’t onions,four blades of large mace,grofs pep- 
per,& falt ; when it boils put inthe pike, cover it clofe, 
& being’ ftewed downy itupina clean {cowred difh 
with carved fippets oo So it, pour on’ the broth 
ZL; % ‘it 





Fehr 






it was ftewed in all over it, with the fpicesand onions, 
and put fome flic’t lemon over all, with fome lemon- 

peel ; run it over with beaten butter, and garnifh the 

difh with dry grated manchet. ‘Thus you may alfo ftew 
it with the {cales on or off. et ae 
~ Sometimes for change ufe horfe-raddith. 


oH i 
ye 
t oo 
2 At eee ©. oF Si 
24 . 
. - 





To few a Pike otherways in the City Falbion. 
Take a pike, fplat it, and lay it ina difh, when the 
blood is clean wafhed out, put to it as much white-wine 
-as will cover it, and fet ita ftewing ; when it boils put 
inthe fifh,f{cum it,and put to it fome large mace,whole 
cinamon, and-fome falt, being finely ftewed difh iton 
fippets finely carved. ve 
Then thicken the broth with two or three egg yolks, 
fome thick cream, fugar, and beaten butter, give ita 
warm and pour it on the pike, with fome boild currans, 
and boil’d prunes laid all over it,as alfo mace, cinamon, 
‘{ome knots of barberries, and flic’t lemon, garnifh the 
difh with the fame garnifh, and {crape on fine fugar. — 
In this way you may do Carp,Bream,Barbel,Chevin, 
Rochet,Gurnet,Conger, Tench,Pearch,Bace,or Mullet. 


To halh-a Pike. H « ) 
Scale and bone it, then mince it with a good frefli 
eel, being alfo boned and flayed, put to it fome {weet 
herbs fine {tripped and minced {mall, beaten nutmeg, 
mace,ginger, pepper, and falt; ftew it inadifh witha 
little white wine and {weet butter,being well ftewed, 
ferve it.on fine carved fippets, and lay. on fome great 
ftewed oyfters, fome fryed in batrer, fome green with 
juyce of {pinage,other yellow with faffron, garnifh the 
difh with them, and run ivover with beaten butter. — 


s To 





se’ on Bin ot Pe yoo ae ‘A ‘i 4 ees Ree a Wee ER 
ype ANCE ie TRE CN RL Uh: 8 Ae: cate arte Me al 


phy SCRE Meee aOR Pate 





py EE ee 
see To fouce 4 Pike. 


_» Draw and wafh it cleanfrom the blood and slime: 
then boil it in water and {alt, when the liquor boils put | 
it to.it, and boil it leifurely fimmering, feafon it pret- 
ty favory of the falt, boil icnot too much, nor in more 
water then will but juft cover it. 
_ If youintend to keep it long, put as much white- 
wine as water, of both as muchas will cover the fifh, 
fome wine vinegar, slic’t ginger, large mace, cloves, 
and fome fale ; when it boils put in the fifh, {pices, and 
fome lemon-peel, boil it up quick but not too much; 
then take it upintoa tray, and boil down the liquor to 
a jelly, lay fome slic’t lemon on it, pour on the liquor, 
and cover itup clofe ; when you ferve it in jelly, dith 
and melt fome of the jelly, and run it all over, .garnifh 
it with bunches of barberries andslic’tlemon. -.. - 
Or being fouft and not jellied,ferve it with fennil and 
parsley. ? 7 
When you ferve it, you may lay round thedith divers 
{mall Fifhes, as Tench, Pearch,Gurnet, Chevin,Roach, 


Smelts, and rua them over with jelly. 


= 


To fouce and jelly Pike, Keel, Tench, Salmon,Gonger,&c. 

Scale the forefaid fithes, being fcal’d, cleanfed and 
boned, feafon them with nutmeg and falt, or no {pices 
at all, roul them up and bind them like brawn, being 
firft rouled in a clean white cloth clofe bound up round 
it, boil them in water, white-wine, and fale, but firft 
~Tetthe panor veffel boil, put ic inand fcum it, then put 
in fome large mace and slic’t ginger. If you willonly 
foucethem boil them not down fo much; if to jelly 
them, put tothem fome ifing-glafs, and ferve them in 
collars whole ftanding in the jelly. 

Ba Oe t/ha Other- 


id 





Wee), SON 
eked fe 
« a 






326 ‘The Accomplifbt COOK: Or, 
Otherways to fouce and jelly the forefard Files, 

Make jelly of three tenches, three perches,and two 
carps,fcale them, wath out the blood,and foak them in 
fair water three of four hours, leave no fat on them, 
then puc them in a large pipkin with as much fair 
{pring water as will cover them, or as many pints as 
pound of fifth, put to it fome ifing-glafs, and boil it 
clofe covered till two parts and a half be waited; then 
take it off and ftrainit, let it cool, and being cold take 
take off the fat on the top, pare the bottom, and put 
the jelly into three pipkins, put three quarts of white- 
wine to them, and a pound and a halfot double refined 
fugar into each pipkin; then to make one red put a 
quarter of an ounce of whole cinamon, two races of 
winger, twonutmegs, two or three cloves, and.a little 
piece of turnfole dry’d, the duft rubbed out and fteep’d 
in fome claret-wine,put fome of the wine into the jelly 

To make another yellow, put a little faffron-water, 
nutmeg,as much cinamon as to the redjelly, and arace 
of ginger sliced. : ae a ae 
To the white put three blades of large mace, a race 
of ginger slic’t, then fet the jelly on the fire till it be 
melted, then have fiveteen whites of eggs beaten, and 
four pound and a half of refined fugar,beat amongft the 
eggs, being firft beaten to fine powder; then divide 
the fugar and eggs equally into the three forefaid pip- 
kins, ftir ic amongft the fugar very well, fet them on 
the fire to ftew, but not to boil up till you are ready to 
run its let each pipkin cool a little before you runic, 
put a rofemary branch in each bag, and wet the top of 
your bags, wring them before you run them, and be- 
ing run, put fome into orange rinds, fome into fcol- 
lop fhells, or lemon rindes in halves, fome into egg 
{hells or mutcle thells,or in moulds for Jellies. Or you 

cae SE a a ee “dale may 


¢é fe 


‘ 





may maké four colours, and mix fome of the jelly 


with almonds-milk. ! | 
~Youmay dith the forefaid jellies on a pie-plate ona 
reat difh in four quarters, and in the middle a lemon 
nely carved or cut into branches, hung with jellies, 


and orange peels,and almond jellies round about ; then 
lay on a quarter of the white jelly on one quarter of the - 
plate, another of red, and another of amber-jelly, the - 


other whiter on another quarter, and about the outfide 
’ of the plate of all the colours one by another in the 
- rindes of oranges and lemons, and for the quarters,four 
{collop hells of four feveral colours, and difh itas the 


_ former. 

: Pike fFelly otherways. | 

Take a good large pike, draw it, wath out the blood, 
and cut it in pieces,then boil it in a gallon or 6 quarts of 
fair {pring water, with half a pound of ifing-glafs clofe 
covered, being firft clean fcum’d. boil it on a foft fire 
till half be wafted; then ftrain the ftock or broth into 
a clean bafon or earthen pan, and being cold pare the 
bottom and top from the fatand dregs, put ic in a pip: 
kin and fet it over the fire,melt it,and put toit the juyce 
of eight or nine lemons, a quart of white-wine, a race 
of ginger pared andslic’t, three or four blades of large 
mace, as much whole cinamon, anda grain of musk and 
ambergriefe tied up ina fine clean clout, then beat fif- 
teen whites of eggs, and put to them in a bafon four 
pound of double refined fugar fir{t beaten to fine pow- 


der, ftir it with the eggs with a rouling pin, and then’ 


put it among the jelly in the pipkin, ftir chem well to- 
gether, and fet it a ftewing on a foft charcoal fire, ler 
it ftew there, but not boil up but one warm at leaft,lec 
it ftew an hour, then take it off and let it cool a little, 
runic through your apie put a {prig of rofemary 

a 4 In 


eon he RIO SI pM id 
The Art and Myfteryof Cookery. === 327 
a ee a eg 


eee 
wet i 
Tae fey y 









To make White Felly of two Pikes—— 

‘Take two good handfome pikes,fcale and draw them, 
and wafh them clean from the blood, then put to them . 
fix quarts of good white-wine, and an ounce of ifing-- 
 glafs, boil them in a good large pipkin toa jelly, being . 
clean fcummed, then {train it and blow offthe far. 
Then takea quart of {weet cream, a quart of the 
jelly, a pound and a half of double refined fugar fine” 
beaten, and a quarter of a pint of rofe-water, put all to- 
ether ina clean bafon, and give them a warm on the 
fire, with half an ounce of fine fearfed ginger, then fet - 
ita cooling,difh it into dice-work,or caft it into moulds 
and {ome other coloured Jellies. Or in place ofcream - 
putin almond-milk.” oe «dt at eae 


To roaft_a Pike. = 

_ Take a pike,fcour off the slime, and take out the en-_ 
trails, lard. the back with pickled herrings, ( you muft — 
have a fharp bodkinto make the holes to lard it) then 
take fome great oyfters and claret-wine, feafon the oy- 
fters. with pepper. and nutmeg, {tuff the belly with oy- 
{ters, and intermix the ftuffing with rofemary, tyme, 
winter favory, {weet marjoram, a little onion,and gar- 
lick, fow thefe in the belly of the pike ; then prepare 
two fticks about the breadth of a lath,(thefe two fticks 
and the {pit muft_ be as broad as the pike being tied on 
the fpit) tie the pike'on winding packthred about it,tye 
alfo along the fide of che pike which is not defended by 
the fpit and. the laths, rofemary, and‘ bays, bafte the 
pike with butter and claret wine with’ fome ancho- 
ves.diflolved in it; when'the pike is waftedor Wi 
Me TS PERT ae ee re 


€& 
Saget 
$e 


4 
a 


> 


Eee Ce ye Oe Te Ten tail 

cas = ihe f : 4 2 
Th 

. °. ¥ é 


fted,take it off, rip up the belly,and take out the whole © 
herbs quite away, boil up the gravy, difh the pike, put 
the’ wine to it, and fome beaten butter. — , bes 
Ah “To fry Pikes. OE 
Draw them, wath off the slime and the blood clean, 
wipe them dry with a clean cloth, flour them, and fry. 

_ them in clarifi‘d butter,being fried crifp and ftiff,make 
fauce with beaten butter, slic’t lemon, nutmeg, and ~ 
falt, beaten up thick witha little fried parsley. = 

~ Or with beaten butter, nutmeg, a little claret, fale, - 
and slic't orange. | 
 Otherways, oyfter-liquor, a little claret , beaten but- 

ter, flic’t orange, and nutmeg,rub the difh withaclove 
of garlick, give the fauce a warm, and garnifh the fifh 
with slic’t lemon or orange and barberries. Small pikes 
are beft to fry. } | ; 


De Be 277. anes el PRE ee 
3 oe Pas bid ” ae, mes Bek | : wee 
he etaig ti gees, ite w j 4 i Ope 7e 






ws, 
’ 


Art and Myftery of Cooker y | 329 : 


: Saka te To fry a Prke otherways. 

The pike being {calded and {platted, hack the white 
or infide with a knife, and it will beribbed, then fry it 
brown and crifp in clarified butter, being fried, take it 
up, drain all the butter’ from it,and wipe the pan clean, 
then put it again into the pan with claret, slic’t ginger;, 
nutmeg, an anchove, {alt, and faffron bear, fry it till ic 
half be confumed, then put in a piece of butter, {hake 
it well together with a minced lemon or slic’t orange, 
and difhir, garnifh it with lemon, and rub the difh 
Wotird c1ove Of Sarlickhs!200:0 NSinse Min (.or.7 ay 

§ To broil a Pike. 

“Take a pike,draw it & {cale it,broil it whole, {plat ie 
or fcotch it with your knife, wafh out the blood clean, 
and lay it on a clean cloth,fale it, and heat the gridiron 
very’ hor,broil it ona foft fire,bafte ic with butter,and 
turn it often;being finely broil’d, ferve it ina na with 

apap ‘ | eaten: 






330° The Accomplifhi 


beaten butter,and wine-vinegar, or juyce of lemonsor 
oranges,” and garnith the fifth with {lices of oranges or 
lemons, and bunches of rofemary. a ae 
t lel od _Otherways, icds eet 
Take a pike,as abovefaid,being drawn,wathit clean, . 
dry it, and putitina dith with fomé good fallet oyl, 
wine vinegar, and falt, there let it {teep the {pace of 
half'an hour, then broil it ona foft fire, turn itand bafte — 
it often with fome fine {treight {prigs ofrofemary,par- 
fley, and tyme, bafte it out of the difh where the oyl 
and vinegar is; then the pike being finely broil’d, difh 
it ina clean difh, put the fame batting to it being war- 
med on the coals, lay the herbs round the difh, with 
fome orange or lemon flices. : 
To broil Mackarel or Hore kegg. * 
Draw the Mackarel at the gills, and wath them,then 
dry them,and fale and broil them with mints,and green 
fennil on a foft fire, and bafte them. with butter, or oyl 
and vinegar, and being finely broil’d, ferve them with 
beaten butter and vinegar, or oyl.and vinegar, with 
rofemary, time, and parfley; or other fauce, beaten . 


M 
\ 

‘ NM ia, 

HA So dll RS eR lia, 


Sr ne ae ren 

“RS en ee , CO eee 

Ap aera. te y 4 

. pale be = 

4 Sire Py we! 
K: Or Ye 
wt 

2 





ia 


: oe 


butter, and slices of lemon or orange. 


©. To broil Herrizgs, Pilchards, or Sprats. | 
Gill them, wath.and dry them, falt and bafte them 
with butter, broil them ona foft fire, and being broi'ld 
ferve them with beaten butter, muftard, and pepper,or 
beaten butter and lemon; other fauce, take the heads - 
atid bruife theni in a difh with beer and falt, put the 
the cleareft to the herrings. i 
no! o1 To bake Prkes. Ped bal 
. Bake your pikes.as you do carp, as you may fee in 
the foregoing Seétion. only remember that {mall pikes 
are beft to bake. - 
Section 





rey. lhe S170 ie aie ie hr oa Cat r+ nO a ann tia ag 
, J ip ey . ¥ Des can A 37 mi cse As int 





, ‘ f uo 
wy lee vy § 
i ne eer al Reha eta ead iy wen aN ST SBR THM HIM 





Oe ib; Al Ra CMe. 33% 


Sision i eh 


| OR 
_ The Third Se&tion for drefling of F 1S H. 


The moft excellent ways of Dreffing 
3 Salmon, Bace, or Mullet. 


: To Galver Salmon to be eaten hot or cold. 
@ ‘Hine it,and cut each fide into two or three peices ac- 
cordingto the bignefs, wipe it clean from the blood 
and not wafhit ; then have as much wine and water as 
you imagine will cover it, make the liquor boil, and 
put in efnn handful of fale; when the liquor boils put 





in the falmon,and boil it up quick with a quart of white- 
wine vinegar, keep up the fire {tiff to the laft, and be- 
ing througly boil’d, which will be in the {pace of half 
an hour or lefs, then takeit off the fire and let it cool, ° 
takeit up into broad bottomed earthen pans,and being: 
quite cold, which will be in a day, .a night, or twelve - 
hours, then put in the liquor to it, and fo keep it. | 
Some will boil in the liquor fome rofemary bound 
upina bundle hard, two or three cloves, two races of 
slict ginger, three or four blades of large mace, and.a 
lemon peel. Others will boil it in beer only. : 
Or you may ferve it being hot,and difhit on fippets in 
a clean fcowred difh ; difh it round the difhor in oe 
an 


and garnith ic wi 








: + i 


ai Ca sh? 


th flic’t ginger, large mace,a clove or 
two,goofeberries, grapes, barberries, flic’t lemon,fry- 
ed parsley, ellickfanders, fage, or {pinage fried. | 
To make fauce for the forefaid falmon, beat fome — 








- butter. up thick with alittle fair water, put 2 or three 


yolks of eggs diflolved into it, with a little of the li- 
quor, grated nutmeg, and fome flic’t lemon, pour it on 
the falmon, and garnifh the difh with fine fearfed man- 
chet, barberries, {lic’t lemon,and fome {pices and fryed- 


greens as aforefaid, 


~- To flew a fall Salmon, Salmon Peal, or Trout. 
Take a falmon, draw it, {cotch the back, and boil it 
whole ina ftew-pan with white-wine,(or in pieces)put 
toitalfo fome whole cioves,large mace, slic’t gingér,a 
bay-leaf or two, a bundle of {weet herbs well and . 
hard bound up, fome whole pepper, falt, fome butter, 
and-vinegar, and anorange in halves; ftew all together, 
and being well ftewed, difh them in a clean fcowred 
dith with carved fippets, lay on the {pices and slic’t le- 
‘mon, andrun itover with beaten butter, and fome of¢ 


‘the gravy it was ftewed in; garnifh the dith with fome 
‘fine fear fed manchet or fearfed ginger. we 


4 ee _Othermays a moft excellent way toftew Salmon, 


= - 


"Fake a rand or jole of falmon, fry it whole raw, and 


being fryed, {tew it ina difh on a chaffing difh of coals, 
with fome claret-wine, large mace, slic’t nutmeg, falt, 
wine-vinegar, slic't orange,and fome {weet butter ; be- 
ing {tewed and the fauce thick, difhit onfippets, lay 
the {pices on it, and fome slices of oranges, garnifh the 
difh with fome ftale manchet finely fearfed and ftrew- 
Shover dy) oS . he 







WY 





































igh 





ry. * 333 7 aa 


s 








The Art and Myft of Cooke 


lery 





‘To pickle Salmon to keep all the year. i 
_ Take a Salmon, cut it in fix round pieces, then broil 
it in white-wine,vinegar, and a little water, three parts 


“wine and vinegar,and one of water; let the liquor boil 


before you put in the falmon,and boil it a quarter of ari 
hour ; then take it out of the liquor, drain it very well, 
and takerofemary {prigs, bay-leaves, cloves, mace,and - 
srof{s pepper, 2 good quantity of each,boil them in two . 
quarts of white-wine,and two quazts of white-wine vi- 
negar, boilit well, then take the falmon being quite 
cold, and rub it with pepper, and falt, pack it ina vee 
fel that will but juft contain it,lay a layer of falmon and 
a layer of {pice that is boil'd in the liquor 5 but let the 
liquor and {pice be very cold before you put it to’it ; 


_ the falmon being clofe packed put in the liquor, and 


once in half ayear, or as it grows dry, put {ome white- 
wine or fack to it, it will keep above a year ; put fome 
lemon-peel into the pickle, let the falmon be new 
taken if poffible. ’ 
s An excellent way to drefs Salmon, or other Fifh. 
Take a piece of frefh falmon, wafh it clean in a little 
wine-vinegar,and let it lyea lit in it in a broad pipkin 
with a cover,put to it fix {poonfuls of water,four of vi- 
negar, asmuchof white-wine, fomefalt, a bundle of 


{weet herbs, a few whole cloves, alittle large mace, 


and a little {tick of cinamon, clofe upthe pipkin with 


_ pafte,and fet it ina kettle of feething water, there let it 


{tew three hours ; thus you may do carps,trouts,or eels, 
and alter the the tafte at you pleafure. : 


To hath Salmon. | 
Take falmon and fet it in warm water, take off the 
skin,and mince a jole,rand, or tail with fome Bo ech; 
eing 













334 hse ~ he Acco it CO D K: Or, Be : 
being finely minced feafon it with beaten cloves, mace; 
falt pepper, and fome fweet herbs ; ftew itina broad 
mouthed pipkin with fome claret wine, goofeberries; 
arberries,or grapes,and fome blanched chefnuts being 
finely ftewed ferve it on fippets about it,and run itover 
with beaten butter, garnifh the difh with ftale grated 
mianchet fearfed,fome fryed oyfters in batter, cockles,or 
iis ; fometimes for variety ufe piftaches,afparagus 
o0il'd and cut an inch long,or boil’d artichocks,and cut 
as big as a chefnut,fome ftewed oyfters,or oyfter-liquor; 
and fome horfe-raddifh {craped, or fome of the juyce; 
-randrub the bottom of the difh wherein you ferve it 
with a clove of garlick. a 
To drefs SalmoninStofado. = | 
~ Take awhole rand or jole, fcale it, and put it inant 
earthen {tew-pan,put to it fome claret, or white-wine; 
fome wine-vinegar, afew whole cloves, large mace; 
grofs pepper, a litrle flic’t ginger, falt, and four or five 
cloves of garlick,then have three or four ftreight {prigs 
of rofemary as much of time,and {weet marjoram, two 
or 3 bay leaves and parfley bound up intoa bundle hard; 
and a quarter of a pound of good {weet butter, clofe up 
the earthen pot with cour(fe pafte,bake it in an oven,& 
ferve it on fippets of French bread,with fome of the li- 
quor and {pices on it,run it over with beaten butter and 
barberries, lay fome of the herbs on it; flict lemon 
and lemon-peel. 
) To marinate Salmon to be eaten hot or cold. i 
Take a Salmon,cut ir intojoles and rands,& fry them 
in good {weet fallet oy] or clarified butter,then fet them 
byin a charger,and have fome white or claret-wine, 8c 
Wine vinegar as much as will cover it,put the wine &vi- 
negar into a pipkin with all maner of {weet h erbsbound 
bpin a bundle,as rofemary,time,fweet marjoram,parily 
c winter 





mene ee, APRN e ere 
7 “4 7 rae -; is ; % 5 









-winter-favory,bay-leaves,forrel,and fage,as much ofone 
as ths other, large mace, flic’t ginger, grofs pepper, flic’t 
- nutmeg,whole cloves, and falt ; being well boil’d toge- 
 ther,pour it on the fifh,fpices and all,being cold,then lay 
on flic’t lemons, and lemon-peel, and cover it up clofes 
fo keep it for prefent {pending, and ferve it hot or cold 
with the fame liquor it is fouft in, with the {pices,herbs, 
and lemons on it. , 
If to keep long, pack it up in a veflel that will but. 
juft holdit, put to itno lemons nor herbs, only bay- 
leaves; if itbe well packed, it will keep as long as 
fturgeon,but then it muftnot be fplatted, but cut round 
ways through chine and all. | 


To boil Salmon in ftewed Broth. 

Take a jole, chine, or rand, put it ina ftew-pan or 
Jarge pipkin with as much claret wine and water as 
will coverit, fomeraifinsof the fun, prunes, currans, 
large mace, cloves,whole cinamon,flic’t ginger,and falt, 
fet it a ftewing overa foftfire, and when it boils put in 
fome thickning of ftrain’d bread,or flour,ftrain’d with 
fome prunes being finely {tewed, difh it up on fippets in 
a cleanfcowred difh,put a little fugar in the broth, the 
fruit onand fome {flict lemon. 


To fry Salmon, | 
Takeajole, rand, or chine, or cut it round through 
chine and all half an inch thick,or in {quare pieces fry it 
in clarified butter; being {tiff & crifp fryed, make fauce 
with two or three {poonfuls of claret-wine, fome fweet 
butter,grated nutmeg,fome flices of orange,wine-vine- 
gar,and fome oyfter-liquor ;{tew themall together,and 
difhthe falmon,pour on the fauce,and lay on {ome frefh a 
flices of oranges and fryed parfley, Mbisea fage- ~ 
Caves & 


ee ee es a ae 





Ta) VSG reese mace 
La ttt oat Sere 
rie 7 ei uer ae rt j , 
‘ ee ie a , gine 
\ 4 eae gt F sf 
' y) wee 
r 






yK = OF a * 


- leaves fryed in batter, pippins fliced and fryed, or cla-. 
ry fryedin butter, or yolks of eggs, and’ quarters of 
oranges and lemons round the difh fides widieiemne fry= 
edgreens inhalvesor quarters; 8 = | 


Linh» 
Ce 





fig) 
‘ 


To roaft a Salmon according tothis Form: 





Take a falmon, draw it at the gills, and put in fome’ 
fweet herbs in his belly whole; the falmon being fcald- 
ed and the flime wip’t off, lard it with pickled herrings, 
or a fat falt eel, fill his belly with fome great oyfters 
ftewed, and fome nutmeg ; let the herbs be tyme,rofe- 
mary,winter favory, {weet marjoram,a little onion and 
garlick, put them in the belly of the falmon, bafte it 
with butter, and fet it in anoven ina latten dripping- 
pan, lay it on fticksand bafte it with butter,draw it,turm 
it, and put fome claret wine in the pan under it, let the 

gravy drip into it,bafte it out of the pan with rofemary 
and bayes, and put fome anchoves into-the wine alfo, 
with fome pepper and nutmeg ; then take the gravy 
and clear off the fat, boil ic up, and beat it thick with 
butter ; then put the fifh in a large difhypour the fauce 
on it, and rip up his belly,take out fome of the oyfters, 
and put them in the fauce, and take away. the herbs. 


Others 


= shia 





A Pevtis 





fa Otherways. ; 
Take a rand or jole, cut it into four pieces,and feafor 
it with a lictle nutmeg and falr, {tick a few cloves, and 

‘put it on af{mall {pit, put between it fome bay-leaves, 
and ftick it with little fprigs of rofemary, roaft it and 
~ bafte it with butter, fave the gravy,with fome wine-vi- 
_-negar; {weet butter,and fome {lices of orange ; the meat 
being rofted; difhit, and pour on the fauce. 


qtr: ~ Tobroil or toaft Salmon. 

Take a whole falmon, a jole, rand, chine, or flices 
cut round it the thicknefs ofan inch,{teep thefe in wine- 
_vinegar,good {weet fallet oy] and falt, broil them on a 
fott firejand bafie them with the fame fauce they were 
fteeped in, with fome ftreight {prigs of rofemary, fweer 
-marjoram,tyme,and parsley : the ffh being broil’d,boil 
up the gravy and oyfter-liquor;dith up the fith, pour on 

-the fauce, and lay the herbs about it, 


3 To brotl or voaft Salmoz in Stoffado. , 
Take ajole,rand,or chine,and fteep it tn claret-wine; 
Wine-vinegar; white-wine, large mace; whole cloves, 
two or three cloves of garlick,slic’t gingét,grofs pepper 
and fale ; being {teeped about two hours, broil it ona 
foft fire,and bafte it with butter,or very good fallet oy], 
{prigs of rofemary, tyme, parsley, fweet marjoram, and 
{ome two: or three bay-leaves, being broiled, ferve 
it with the fauce it was fteeped in, with a litrle oy- 
‘fter-liquor put.to it,difh the fifh,warm the fauce it was 
ftewed in,and pour it on the fifh either in butter or oyl, 
Jay the {pices and herbs about it 3 and in this way you 
may roaftit, cut the jole, of rand infix pieces if it be 
large,and fpitit with bayes aid rofemary between, ant 
fave the gravy for fauce. 


Az Sauces 


F 
ee 





4 
Sauces for voaft or boil'd Salmon, = = 
- Take the gravy of the falmon,or oye Rlbesbeae it 
up thick with beaten butter, claret wine, nutmeg, and 
fome flices of orange. Bie 
3 erayssvith gravy of the falmon,butter juyce of 
orange or lemon, fugar,and cinamon, beat up the fauce 
with the butter pretty thick,difh up the falmon,pour on 
the fauce, and lay it on flices of lemon. a. 
Or beaten butter,with flices of orange or lemon, or 
the juyce of them, or grape verjuyce and nutmeg. 
Otherways, the gravy of the falmon, two or three 
anchoves diffolved init, grated nutmeg, and grated 
bread beat up thick with butter, the yolk of an egg 
and flices of oranges, or the juyce of it. 


Oth i 


. To bake Salmon. 





Take a falmon being new, {cale, it draw it,and wipe 
it dry,{crape out the blood from the back-bone,fcotch ir 
on the back and fide,then feafon it with pepper,nutmeg, 
and falt; the pie being made,put butter in the bottom 
of it,a few whole cloves, and fome of the feafoning, lay 
on the falmon, and put fome whole cloves on it, fome 
flict nutmeg, and butter, clofe it up and bafte it over 
with eggs, or faftron water, being baked fillicup with 
clarified butter. | Or 





pies,fill them, and being baked ice them, and {crape on 
fugar ; Make them according to thefe forms: 7 





— To. make Chewits of Salmon: 


. Mince a ratid of falmon with a good freth water eel; 
being boned, flayed, and feafoned with pepper, falr,nut- 
qneg cinamon, beaten ginger, caraway-feed,rofe-water, 
‘butter, verjuyce, fugar; and orange-peel minced mingle 
all together with fome flic’t dates,and currans,put but- 
ter in the bottom; fill the pies, clofe them up, bake 
them; andicethem. ~~ proce 
\pbaadbe fee De To 





TS Roe Sy: 


The Accomplifht C OO 





To make a Lumber ie of Salmon, = 

Mincea rand, jole, or tail with a good fat freth eel 
feafoned in all points as beforefaid, put five or fix yolks 
of eggs to it with one or two whites, make it into balls 
or rouls,with fome hard eggs in quarters, put fome but- 
ter in the pye,lay on the rouls,and on them !arge mace, 
dates in halves,flic’t lemon,grapes,or barberries, & but- 
ter,clofe it up, bake it, and ice it ; being baked,cut up 
thecover, fry fome fage-leaves in batter, in clarified 
-butter,and ftick them in the rouls,cut the cover,and lay 
it on the plate about the pie, or mingle it with an eel 
oe into dice work, liquor it with verjuyce, fugar, and 
butter. 

To boil Bace, Mullet, Gurnet, Rochet, Wivers, 8&e. 

Take amullet,draw it,wath it,and boil it in fair wa- 
ter and falt,with the {cales on,either {platted or whole, 
but firft let the liquor boil, being finely boiled, difh 
it upon aclean {cowred difh,put carved f{ippets round a- 
bout it,and lay the white fide uppermoft,garnifh it with 
flic’t lemon,large mace,lemon-peel,and barberries,then 
make a lear or fauce with beaten butter,a little water, 
flices of lemon, juyce of grapes or orange, {trained with 
the yolks of two or three eggs. 


. Fo fouce Mullets or Bacee 
Draw them & boil them with the fcales,but firft wath 
them clean,& lay them ina difh with fome falt,caft upon 
them fome flic’t ginger,& large mace,put {ome wine vi- 
negar to them,and two or three cloves; then fet on the 
fire a kettle with asmuch wine as water, when the pan 

boils putin the fith and fome {alt;boil ic with a foft fre, 
& being finely boiled and whole, take them up with a 
falfe bottom and 2 wires all together. If you clad 
| : them, 


“ 


ay r'¥ if i ; AUN RUSH I Ca AY Sa eye ae : 
+ The Art and Myftery of Cookery. 341 
tere art RE RR nen 


them,boil down the liquor toa jelly with a piece of i- 
fing-glafs,being boil’d to a jelly, pour it onthe fith,{pi- 
_ces and all into an earthen flat bottomed pan, cover it 
up clofe,and when you difh the fifh,ferve it with fome 
of the jelly on it, garnifh the dith with flic’t ginger and 
mace, and ferve with it in faucers wine vinegar,minc’t 
fennil and flic’t ginger ; garnifh the dith with green fen- 
nil and flowers, and parfley on the fifh. 
‘ . To marinate Mallets or Bace. ; 
Scale the mullets,draw them,and {crape off the flime, 
wath 8 dry them with a clean cloth,flour them and fry 
them in the beft fallet oy! you can get, fry them in a fry- 
ing pan or ina preferving pan, but firft before you put 
in the fifh to fry, make the oy! very hot, fry them not 
too much, but crifp and itiff; being clear, white, and 
fine fryed, lay them by in anearthen pan or charger till 
they beall fry’d, lay them ina large flat bottom’d pan 
that they may lie by one another, and upon one another 
at length, and pack them clofe ; then make pickle for 
them with as much wine vinegar as will cover them the 
breadth of a finger, boil icin a pipkin with falt, bay- 
leaves, {prigs or tops of rofemary,fweet marjoram, time, 
favory, and parfley, a quarter of a handful of each, and 
whole pepper ; give thefe things a warm or two on 
the fire, pour it on the fifh, and cover it clofe hot; then 
flice 3 or 4. lemons being par’d, fave the peels, and put 
them to the fifh, ftrow the flices of lemon over the fith 
with the peels, and keep them clofe covered for your 
afe. If this ffh were barrel’d up, it would keep as 
Jong as fturgeon, put half wine vinegar, and half white- 
wine, the liquor net boil’d, nor no herbs in the liquor, 
Dut fry'd bay-leaves,flic’r nutmegs, whole cloves, large 
mace, whole pepper, and slic’t ginger ; pack the fithes 
clofe, and once amonth turn the head of the vefiel 
a Aa3 down- 


ake 






Marinate thefe fithes following as t 


Scollops,Cockles, Lobfters, Prawns,Crawfith,Mutcles, 
Snails, Mufhrooms, Welks, Frogs. Tas 


To marinate Bace,Mullet, Gurnet,or Rochet otherways, 

Take a gallon of vinegar,a quart of fair water,a good 
handful of bay-leaves, as much of rofemary,and a quar- 
ter of a pound of pepper beaten,put thefe together,and 
Jet them boil foftly, feafon ic witha little le, then 
firy your fifh in {pecial good fallet oy], being well clari- 
fi'd,the fith being fryed put them in an earthen veflel or 
barrel,lay the bay-leaves,and rofemary between every 
layer of the fifh, and pour the broth upon it, when it 
is cold clofe up the veffel ; thus you may ufe it to ferve 
hot or cold, and when you dith it to ferve, garnifhit 
with flic’t lemon, the peeland barberries, = 


To broil Mullet, Bace, or Bream, ) 

Take a mulletsdraw it,and wath it clean, broil it with 
the fcales on, or without {cales,and lay it ina dith with 
fome good fallet oyl, wine vinegar, falc, fome {prigs of 
‘yofemary, time,and parsley, then heat the gridiron,and 
lay on the fith,broil it on a foft fire,on the embers, and 
‘bafte it with the fauce it was fteep’d in, being broiled 
ferve it in aclean warm difh with the fauce it was f{tee- 
ped in,the herbs on it,and about the difh,caft on falr,and 
{) ferve it with flicesof orange, lemon, or barberries, 
Or broil icin butter and vinegar with herbs as above- 

faid, and make fauce with beaten butter and vinegar. 
' Ox beaten butter and juyce of lemonand orange. — 
Be eee ey Sn ied te Some- 





EE EE LIES, RAMMSTEIN E a ca aeS 
The Art and My/tery o 





Cookery. 


Sometimes for change, with grape verjuyce, juyce of 


forrel, beaten butter and the herbs. 


To wy Mullets, 


Scale,drawyand fcotch them, wafh them clean,wipe 
them dry and flour them, fry them in clarified butter, 
and being fried, put them ina difh, put to them fome 
claret wine, slic’c ginger, grated nutmeg, an anchove, 
falt,and fome {weet butter beat up thick, give the fith 
a. warm with a minced lemon, and difhit, but firftrub 
the difh with a clove of garlick. 

The leaft Mullets are the beft to fry. 


To bake a Mullet or Bace. 


Scale, garbidge, wath and dry the Mullet very well, 
then lard it with a falt eel, feafonit, and make a pud- 
ding for it with grated bread, {weet herbs, and fome 
frefh eel minced, put alfo the yolks ofhard eggs, an an- 
chove wath'd & minc’d very {mall,fome nutmeg, & fale, 
fill the belly or not fill icat all, but cut ic into quarters 
or three of a fide,and feafon them with nutmeg,ginger, 
and pepper, laythem in your pie, and make balls and 
lay them upon the pieces of Mullet, then put on fome 
capers, prawns, or cockles,yolks of eggs minced,butter, 
large mace, and barberries, clofe itup, and being bak’d 
cut up the lid, and ftick ic full of cuts of pafte,lozenges, 
or other pretty garnith, fill it up with beaten butter,and 
garnifh it with slic’t lemon. ' 

Or you may bakeit ina patty pan with better pafte 
that that which is made for pyes. 

This is a very good way for tench or bream. 


Aa4 © »ection 


/ 
/ 





RepPes Sith. 
+ a 
TELS 


‘ ‘ mY enn a yee, é 
* i ‘ i tye r 4 + 3 
5 e : ‘ Pe lh ‘a8 Py pret 
ect 10n > eS 
~ ' a] 
“tt = fa re = ¥ * 


| OR, 
The fourth Section for dreffing of FISH. — 


Shewing the exatte/t ways of drelfing Turbut, Plaice, : 
Plounders, and Lampry. EC hs 





To boil Turbut to eat hot. 

Raw and wath them clean,then boil them in white 

wine and water,as much of the one as ofthe other ' 
with fome large mace, a few cloves, falt, flic’t ginger, a 
bundle of time and rofemary faft bound up; when the 
pan boils put in the fifh, {cum it asit boils, and being | 
half boil’d, put in fome lemon-peel; being through boi- 
Jed, ferve it inthis broth, with the fpices, herbs, and 
flic’t lemon onits or difh it on fippets with the forefaid 
garnifh, and ferve it with beaten butter. if 


Turbut otherways calvered,  - 

Draw the turbut,wafh ic clean,and boil it in half wine 
and half water,fale,and vinegarswhen the pan boils put 
in the fifh,with fome flic’t onions,large mace,a clove or 
two, fomeslic’t ginger, whole pepper,anda bundle of 
{weet herbs,as time, rofemary, and a bay-leaf or two3, 
{cotch the fifh on the white fide very thick overthwart 
only one way,before you put it a boilingsbeing half ed 
‘hh | : le 






fe ne iS ce ite lak a ee Day VRS a eae 
, i ah oie ae ieee " me a ; on = f ia u fi Pat. Bic 3 
2 ? f Pips 


The Art and Myftery of Cookery. 345 


ee ee 
~~ * 
a 


ed,put in fome lemon or orange peel; and being through © 


boil’d, ferve it with the fpices, herbs, fome of the li- 


4 


quor, onions, and flic’t lemon. 


Or ferve it with beaten butter, flic’t lemon, herbs, - 
fpices, onions and barberries, Thusalfo you may drefs © 


holyburt. 
To boil Turbut or Holyburt otherways. 


_ Boil it in fair water and falt, being drawnand wafh: 


ed clean, when the pan boils put im the ffh and fcumit; - 


pane well boil difhit,and pour on it fome ftew’d oy- 


ters and flic’t lemon ; run it over with beaten butter’ 
beat up thick with juyce of oranges, pour it over all, 


then cut fippets, and ftick it with fryed bread. 
! Otherways. 


Serve them with beaten butter, vinegar, and bar- 


berries, and fippets about the dih. 


To fouce Turbut or Holyburt otherways. 


’ Takeand draw the fith,wath it clean from the blood 
and flime, and when the pan boils put in the fifth in fair 
water and falt, boil it very leifurely, {cum it,and feafon 
itpretty favory of the falt, boil'ic well with no more 
water then will coverit. If you intend to keep-it long, 
boil it in as much water as white-wine,fome wine vine- 
gar, flict ginger, large mace, two or three cloves, and 
fome lemon-peel ; being boil’d and cold, put in aflic’t 
lemon or two,take up the fifh, and keep it in an earthen 
pan clofe covered, boil thefe fifhes in no more liquor 


than will cover them, boil them on a foft fire fimering. 


To ftew Turbut or Holyburt. 


Take it and cut itin flices, then fry it,and being half — 


fryed put it in a ftew-pan or deepjdifh, then ee it 
it ‘Rees Se rote } Pe SGP 









a 


eX 


{ome claret, grated nutmeg, three or 


y ea 


| | To fry Turburt or Hollyburt, 6 
Cut the fifh into thin flices,hack ic with the knife,and 
it will be ribbid,then fry it almoft brown with butter, 
take it up;draming al! the bucter from it, then the pan 
being clean, put it in #gain with claret,flic’c ginger,nut- 
’ meg, anchove, falt,and faffron beat, fry it till it be half 
confumed, then put in a piece of Breese 3 well 
together witha minced lemon, and rubthe dvh with 
a clove of garlick. | DEG } 
To hath turbut,make a farc’t meat of it, to roft or 
broilit, ufe in all points as youdo fturgeon, and ma-_ 
rinate it as you do carp. uy | 
The beft may ta calver Flounders, | 
Take them alive,draw and {cotch ¢hem very thick on 
the white fide, then have a pan of white-wine and wine 
vinegar over the fire with all manner of {pices,as large’ 
mace, fale, cloves, flic’t ginger,fome great onions flic’t, 
the tops of rofemary, time,fweet marjoram,pick’d par- 
fley, and winter favory, when the pan boils put in the 
flounders, and no more liquor than will cover thems 
cover the pan ciofe,and boil themup quick, ferve them — 
hot or cold with flic’t lemon, the {pices and herbs on 
them and lemon peel. 7 
Broil flounders as you do bace and mullet, fouce 
them as pike, marinate and drefs them in ftoffado as 
carp, and bake them as oyfters. 
To boil Plaice hot to butter, 
Draw them,and wath themclean,then boil them in fair 
water and falt, ‘when the pan boils put them in being 
| | very 


very.new, boil them up quick wich a lemon-peel ; dith 
them upon fine fippets round about them, flic’tle- 
‘mon onthem, the peel and fome barberries, beat up © 
fome butter very thick with fome juyce of lemon and 


nutmeg grated, and run it over them hor, 








| Otherways. | 
Boil them in white-wine vinegar, large mace,a clove 
or two, and flic’t ginger ; being boild ferve them in 
beaten,butter, with the juyce of forrel, {trained bread, 
flic’t lemon, barberries, grapes, or goofeberries, 


To ftew Plaice. 


Take and draw them, wath them clean, and put them 
in a dith,ftew-pan or pipkin,with fome claret or white 
wine, butter, fome fweet herbs, nutmeg, pepper, an o- 
nion and fale; being finely ftewed, ferve them with © 
beaten butter on carved fippets, and flic’t lemon, 

therways, 

- Draw,wath, and fcotch them,then fry them not toa 
much; being fried, put them in,a-difh or ftew-pan, put 
to them fome claret wine, grated nutmeg, wine vine- 
gar, butter, pepper, and falt, ftew them together with 
fome flices of orange. 3 ‘ 


To bake a Lampry. 


Draw it, and fplit the back on the infide from the — 
mouth to the end of the tail, take out the ftring in the. 
back, flay her and trufs her round, parboil it and feafon 
it with nutmeg,pepper, and falc, put fome butter in the 
bottom of the pie, and lay on the lampry with two or 
three good big onions, a few whole cloves and butter, 
clofe it up and bafte it over with yolks of eggs,and beer 

| or 


NC cadtattn ey 
hy Madea 


348 





MSs Vy ee 
Te Ry ee Ah. 





et REE ‘ Raa! a es aieiciemniiaaian SNe Gh. 
. —— : alas: waht ek ES nd PA “t 
The A OOK: Or, on 








or faffron water, bake it,and’being baked,fll itup with — 
clarified butter, {top it up with butter in the vent hole, 
‘pe put in fomeclaret wine, but that willnot keep 
ong. : | 
To bake a Lampry otherways with an Eel. 


Flay it,fplat it,and take out the garbidg,then havea 


-good fat eel,flayit, draw it, and bone it,wipe them dry 


from the flime, and feafon them with pepper, falt, and 


nutmeg, cut them in equal pieces as may conugmicnt'y 
t + bot- 


lyein a {quere or round pye, lay butter in 
tom, and three or four good whole onions, then lay 
a layer of eelsover the butter, ‘and on that lay a lam- 
pry, then another of eel, thus do till the pye be full,and 
onthe top.of all put fome whole cloves and butter, 
clofe it up and. bake it being bafted over with faffron 
water, yolks of eggs, andbeer, and being baked and 
cold, fill ic up with beaten butter. Make your pies ac- 
cording to thefe forms, 





To bake a Lawpry in the Italian Falhion to eat hot. 


Flay it,and feafonit with nutmeg, pepper, falt, cina- 
mon, and ginger, fill the pie either with Lampry cut in 
pieces or whole,put to it raifins, currans, prunes, dryed 
cherries, dates, and butter,clofe it up, and bake it,being 
baked liquor it with {trained almonds, grape verjuyce, 


--fugar, {weet herbs chop’t and boil’d all together, ferve it 


with 








ware Pres AEUERN pe | y ; 
Ay. Z ‘ alle Pp, ALINE 
NRE nt er ee ee Z 


“The Art and Myftery of Cookery 349 

~withjuyce of orange, white wine, cinamon, and the 
blood of the lampry, and ice it, thus you may alfo do 
Jampurns baked for hot. 7 


~ To bake a Lampry otherways 1 Patty-pan or difh. 


Take a lampry, roaft it in pieces, being drawn and 
flayed,bafte it with butter, and being roafted and cold, 
put itintoa difh with pafte or puff pafte; put butter to 
-it,being firft feafoned with pepper, nutmeg, cinamon, 
ginger,and falt,feafoned lightly,fome. {weet herbs chop- 
ped, grated bisket bread, currans, dates, or slic’t lemon, 
clofe it up and bake it, being baked liquor it with but- 
ter, white-wine, or fack, and fugar. 





Section 








Py 


~ Settion XV TL ies: 
sci rial ioe! oso 
~ "The Fifth Se@ion of FIS H:. - 
SRR Fi bape: bag 
Shewing the beft way io Drefs Eels, 
Conger,, Lump, and Soals, 








To boil Eels to be eaten hot. 
ty them, flay them, and wipe them clean, ther 
i put them ina pofnet or ftew-pan,cut them three — 
inches long,and put to them fome white-wine; white- 
wine vinegar,a little fair Water, falt, large mace,and 2 
pood big onion ftew the forefaid together witha little 
utter ; being finely ftewed and tender, difh them on 
carved fippets, or on flices of French bread, and ferve’ 
them with boil’d currans boil’d by themfelves,flic’t le- 
mon,barberries, and {crape on fugar. 

: | Otherrays. | oo 
Draw and flay them, cut them into pieces, and boil 
them in alittle fair water,white-wine,an anchove,fome 
Oyfter-liquor, large mace, two or three cloves bruifed, 
fale, {pinage,forrel,and parfley grofly minced with a lit- 
tle onion and pepper, difh them upon fine carved fip- 
pets 4 then broth them with a little of that broth, ee 
Cat. 





Tei Viked tc Me alae 5 lies, abe ici ah 


wie EON 


ar ics pate 
, 


The Art and Myftery of | 251 


peat up a lear with ome goad butter, the yolk of an 
€88 of two, and the rinde and flices Of a lemon. 


To flew Fels. Bie) 
Flay them,cut them into pieces, and put them into a 
skillet with butter verjuyce, and fair water as much as 
will cover them,fome large mace,pepper,a quarter ofa 
pound of currans, two or three onions, three or four 
{poonfuls of yeaft, anda bundle of {weet herbs, ftew 
all thefe together till the fith be very tender; then dith 
them, and put to the broth a quarter ofa pound of but- 
ter, a litcle falt, and fugar, pour it on the fith,fippet it, 
-andferveithot. 2 
: To ftew Eels in an Oven. 
- Cut them in pieces,being drawn and flayed,then fea- 
fon them with pepper,falt,and a few fweet herbs chop- 
ped fmall,put them into an earthen pot,and fet them up 
on end, put to them four or five cloves of garlick,jand 
two of three {poonfulls of fair water,bake them, and 
ferve them on fippets. 





7 Sabha Ray 
okery. 





| To fier Eels otherways to be eaten hot. 
_-. Draw the eels, flay them, and cut them into pieces 
three inches long, then put them ‘into a broad mou- 
thed pipkin with 2s much white-wine and water as 
willc over them put to them fome ftripped tyme, fweee 
marjoram,{avory, picked pariley,and large mace, ftew 
them well together and ferve them on fine fippets, 
{tick bay-leaves round the difh garnifh the meat with 
f{lic’t lemon, and the difh with fine grated manchet. 
"To fle whole Eels to be eaten hot. 
Takethree good eels,draw,flay them, and tru them 
round,(or in pieces, ) then have a quart of  ceaasahaege 
—- : three 


hurt 

re cae NS 

a aa aps 
me ae! 


is 


2352 The Accor COOK: Or, | 









three half pints of wine-vinegar, a quart of water, lome 
falt,and a handful of rofemary arid tyme bound up hard, 
when the liquor boils put in the eels with fome whole 
pepper, and large mace; being boil’d, ferve them with © 
fome of the broth; beat up thick with fome good but- 
ter, and flic’t lemon, difh them on fippets with fome 
‘grapes, barberries, or goofeberries. by 


Other Ways: a: ae 

Take three good eels,draw, flay,and fcotch them with 
your knife,trufs them round,or cut them in pieces, and 
fry them: in clarified butter, then ftew them between 
two difhes,put to them fome two or three fpoonfuls of 
claret or white-wine, fome {weet butter, two or three 
flices of an orange,fome falt,and flic’t nutmeg 3 ftew all 
well together,difh them,pour on the fauce,and run it 0- 


ver with beaten butter, and flices of frefh orange, and 
put fine fippets round the difh. ! | 


‘To drefs Eels in Stoffado. Me; 

Take two gocd eels, draw, flay them, and cut them 
in pieces three inches long; put to them half as much 
claret wine as will cover them, or white-wine, wine-vi- 
negar, or elder-vinegar,fome whole cloves, large mace, 
grofs pepper,flic’t ginger, falt,four or five cloves of gar- 
lick, being put into a pipkin that will contain it,put to 
‘themalfo three or four {prigs of {weet herbs,as rofema- 
ry,tyme,or {weet marjoram ; 2 or 3 bay leaves,and fome 
partley ; cover up the pipkin,and pafte the cover, then 
{tew it in an oven,in one hour it will be baked, ferve it 
hot for dinner or {upper on fine fippets of French bread, 
and the {pices upon it, the herbs, flic’t lemon, and le- | 
_-mon-peel, andrun it over with beaten butter. 


Ta 








reg 


+ dt ae 


A te NE RRR 


Fx. 


he Art and Myftery of Cookery. 353 
meee” + Ro-fouee' Eels in Collapse 8 0 oO 
~ "Take 2 good large filver eel, flay it (or not) take out 
the back bone,and wafh and wipe away the blood with 
a dry cloth,then feafon it with beaten nutmeg and falt; 
cut off the head and roul in the tail ; being feafoned in 
the in fide, bind it up ina fine white cloth clofe and. 
ftreight; then havea large skillet or pipkin, put init 
fome fair water and whitewine,of each a like quantity; 
and fome falt, when it boils putin the eel; being boil’d 
tender take it up, and let it cool; when it is almoft cold 
keep it in fauce for your ufe in a pipkin clofe covered; 
and when you will ferve it take it out of the cloth;pare 
it,and difh it in a clean difh or plate,with a {prig of rofe- 
mary in the middle of the Collar: Garnifh the difh 
with jelly, barberries and lemon: | | 
If you will have it jelly; put ina piece of ifing-glafs 
ee the eel is taken up, and boil the liquor down to 
a jelly. pets, | 
: : To jelly Eels otherways; sued pig 
Flay aneel; and cut it into rouls, wafh it clean from 
the blood, and boil it in a difh with fome white-wine, 
and white-wine vinegar, as much water as wine and vi- 
negar,and no more of the liquor than will juft cover its 
being tender boil’d with a litele fale;take it up and boil. 
down the liquor with a piece of ifing-glafs; a blade of 
‘mace, a little juyce of orange and fugar ; then the eel 
‘being difhed; run the cleareft of the jelly over it. 


Sih. To fouce Eels otherways in Collars: i 
“Taketwo fair eels; flay them,and part them down the 
back, take out the back-bone; then take tyme, parfley, 

8 {weet marjoram,mince them fmall,and mingle them 
with nutmeg,ginger, Pee and fale ; then ftrow it ie 

by the 






Te ‘Leap Se slat : “ 

( y e ( ) vey emt 
K eo. ry K : 

ARN Te SS 








the infide of the eels, then roul them up like a collar of 

~ brawn,and put them in a’ clean cloth, bind the ends of 
the cloth, and boil them tender with vinegar, white- 
wine,falt,and water ; but let the liquor boil before you 
put in the Eels. ‘ : a 


To fouce Eels otherways in a Collar or Roll, 
- Takea large great eel,and {cowr it with a handful of 
falt,then {plit it down the back,take out the back bone 
and the guts, wipe out the blood clean,and feafon the eel 
with pepper,nutmeg,falt,and fome {weet herbs minced 
and f{trowed upon it,roul it up,and bind it up.clofe with 
packthred like a collar of brawn, boil it in water, falr, 
vinegar.and two or three blades of mace,boil it half an 
hour ; and being boil’d,put to it a flic’t lemon,and keep 
it inthe fame liquor ; when you ferve it, ferve it ina 
collar or cut it out in round flices, lay fix or feven in a 
difh, and garnifh it in the dith with parsley and barber- 


ries, or ferve with ic vinegar in faucers. 


| 9 To fouce Eels otherways cut in pieces,or whole. 


Take two or three great eels,fcowr them in falt,draw 
them and wafh them clean, cut them in ,equal pieces 
three inches long, and {cotch them: crofs on both fides, 
put them in a difh with wine.vinegar, and falt.; then 
have a kettle over the fire with fair water anda bundle 
of {weet herbs 2 or three great onions, and fome large 
mace ; when the kettle boils put in the eels, wine,vine- 
gar,and {alt; being finely boil’d and tender, drainthem 
from the liquor and .when. they are cold-take fome of 
the broth and a pint cf white wine,boil it up with fome . 
{xflron beaten to powder,or it will not colour the wine; 

then take out the {pices of the liquor where it was an 
| cre 








Lee 


The: Art and Myftery of Cookery. 





; 1325 
ed and put it in the laft broth made for it, leave out 
the onions and herbs of the firft broth, and keep it in’ 
the laft. | Bs eked 
it To make a Hafh of Eels: Pk 
— Take a good late cel or two, flay, draw; and wafh 
them, bone and mince them, ther feafon them with 
cloves and mace, mix with them fome good large oy- 
{ters,a whole onion, falc, a little white-wine, and anan= 
chove, ftew them upon a foft fire, and ‘erve them on 
fine catved fippets,garnifh them with fome slic’t orange 
and run them overt with beaten butter chickned with 
the yolk of an egg or two, fome grated nutmeg, and 
juyce of orange. Bb Ss OM 
To make a Spitch-Cock, or brold Eels. , 

Take a good large eel, {plat it down the back, and 
joynt the back-bone; being drawn, and the blood wath- 
ed out, leave on the skin, and ctit it in four pieces e: 
qually, falt them, andbaftthem with butter, or oyl 
and vinegars broil rhem on a foit fire, and being finely 
broil’d, ferve them ina clean difh, with bearen butter 
and juyce of lemon, or beaten butter, and vinegar;with 
{fprigs of rofemary round about them: 


he Wok fall! Bele ph eR Aiea TI 

_ Take a falt eel and boil it tender, being flayed and 
truft round with {cuers,boil it tender on a foft fire, then 
broil it brown, and ferve it in a clean dith with twoor 
three great onions boil’d whole and tender; and then 
broil’d brown ; ferve them on the eel with oyl and 
mufttard in faucers. 


gs i | To voaft an Eel. Nae eel prt 

Cut it three inches long,being firft fayed and drawii 
fplit it, put icona aoa eS it; fet a difh under 

, ba it 









856 ite - The Accompli 








it to fave the gravy, and roaft it fineand brown, then ~ 
make fauce with the gravy, a little vinegar, falt, pep- 
per,a clove or two, and a little grated parmifan,or old 
Englifh cheele, or a little botargo grated ; the eel being 
roa{ted,blow the fat off the gravy, and put to it a piece 
of {weet butter, fhaking it well together with fome 
falt, put it ina clean difh, lay the eel onit, and fome 
slices of oranges. 7 7 
| To voaft Eels otherways. yan 

Take a good large filver eel, draw it, and flay it in 
pieces of four inches long, {pit it ona {mall {pit with 
fome bay-leaves,or large fage leaves between each piece 
{pit it crofs ways, and roaftit; being roafted, ferve it 
with beaten butter, beaten with juyce of oranges, le- 
mons, or elder vinegar, and beaten nutmeg, or ferve it 
with venifon fauce, and dredge it with beaten ¢ara- 
way-feed, cinamon, flour, or grated bread. 


.. To bake Eels in Pye, Difh, or Patty-pan. 

‘Take good frefh water eels, draw, and flay them, 
cut them in pieces, and feafon them with pepper, falr, 
and nutmeg, lay them in a pye with fome prunes, cur- 
rans, grapes, goofeberries, or barberries, large mace, 
slic’t dates anc butter,clofe ir up and bake it, being ba- 
ked,liquor it with white-wine, fugar, and butter, and 
ce 1. ; 

Ifyou bake it in adih in pafte, bake it incold butter 
pafte,roft the eel,& let it be cold,feafon it with nutmeg 
pepper, ginger,cinamon,and falt,put butter on the pafte, 
and lay on the eel with a few {weet herbs chopped,and 
grated bisket-bread,grapes,currans,dates, large mace,and 
butter, clofe it up and bake it, liquor it, and ice it. - 

: i | — Otberways. 

Take good frefh water eels,flay and draw them efog 

them 


_ oe. ae 
ae ey id 





‘The Art and Myftery of Cookery. 357 


them with nutmeg, pepper, and falt, being cut in pie- 
ces, lay them in the pie, and puto them fome twoor 
three onions in quaters, fome butter,large mace,grapes, _ 
‘barberries or goofeberries, clofe them up and bake 
thém;being baked liquor them with beaten butter,beat 








upthick with the yolks of two eggs, andslices ofan 


orange. ae 

Sometimes you may bake them with a minced oni- . 
nion,fome raifins of the fun,and feafon them with fome 
ginger, pepper, and fale. 

To bake Eels otherways, 

Take halfa douzen good eels,flay them and take out 
the bones, mince them and feafon them with nutmeg, 
pepper, and falt, lay fome butter in the pye, and lay a 
lay of Eel, anda lay of watred falt Eel, cut into great 
lard as big as your finger, lay a lay of it, and another of 
minced eel, thus lay fix or feven lays, and onthe top 
lay on fome whole cloves, flic’t nutmeg, butter, and 
fome slices of falt eel, clofeitup and-bake it, being ba- 
ked fill it up with fome clarified butter,and clofe the 
vent. Make your pye round according tothis form. 
@ N¥ | 

To bake Eels with Tenthes 1 4voundor ~ 
ew er bryare Pie to cub-cold. wm 

Take four good large eels, flayed and boned, and fix 
good large tenches, {cale, {plat, and bone them, cut off 
the heads and fins,as alfo of the eels;cut both eels, and 
tenches a handful long,& feafon them with pepper, fale 
and nutmeg;then lay fome butter in the bottom of the 
pie, lay a Jay of eels,and then a lay of tench,thus do five 
or {ix layings, lay on the top large mace,& whale cloves 

Bb3 ) and 








, TA eee oe 
Te ate b> iJ Reta a a 
me EN RTE TK AB ok ane 
TS ance Bai ees Se eee ee 
Ti tee |. OER 
abe eek: $3 = . ag 
‘ ; . AS 
pe >. oe : ik 
i . oy i a> - c q oh aS 
> 






and on that butter, clofe it up and bake it ; being bas | 





Other minced Eel Pyes, . 

Take 2 or three good large eels, being cleans'd,mine 
them & feafon them with cloves,mace,pepper, nutmeg, 
ae aD : falt, _ : 





Eh hc el 
The Art and. My/tery of Cookery. 259 


falt, and a good big onion in the bottom of your pye, 


fome {weet herbs chopped, and onions, put fome goos- 
_ berries and butter to it, and fill your pie, clofe itup 
and bake it, being baked, liquor it with butter and ver- 
_ fuyce, or {trong fifh broth, butter, and faffron, 


Otherways. 


Mince fome wardens or pears, figs, raifins, prunes, 


and featon them as abovefaid with fome fpices,but no 
onions nor herbs, put to them goosberries,faffron, flic’t 
dates, fugar, verjuyce, rofe-water, and butter ; then 
make .pyes according to. thefe forms, fill them and 
_ bake them, being baked, liquor them with white bat- 

ter, white-wine and fugar, and ice them, ii 





Toboil Conger to be eaten hot. . 


Take a piece of conger being fcalded and wath’d from 
the blood and flime,lay it in vinegar & falt,with a {lice 
or twoof lemon,and fome large mace, flic’t ginger, and 
two or three cloves, then fet fome liquor a boiling in 
a pan or kettle,as much wine and water as will cover it 
when the liquor boils putin the fifh, with the fpices, 
and falt, and when it is boil’d put in the lemon, and 
ferve the fifth on fine carved fippets ; then make a lear 
or fauce with beaten butter, beat with juyce of oranges 
or lemons, ferve ic with flic’t lemon on it, flic’t ginger 
and barberries ; and garnifh ic with the fame. 





PLA PED, ipa eT ee 
rape OF 





, th few per eae 

| Take a piece of conger, and cut it intoy pieces as big 
as ahens egg,put them in a {tew-pan or two deep difh- 
es with fome large mace, fale, pepper, flic’t nutmeg, 
fome white-wine, wine vinegar, as much water,butter, 
and flict ginger, ftew thefé well together, and ferve 
them on fippets with flic’t orange, lemon, and barber- 
ries, and run them over with beaten butter, : 


» 
oth 


{; , ‘is 


To marinate Gonger. 
Scald and draw it, cut itinto pieces, and: fyi it in ‘ie 
beft fallet oy! you ‘can get; being fried putitin alittle 
barrel that will contain it; then have fometryed bay- 
leaves, large mace, slic’t ginger and: a few whole cloves, 
lay thefe between the fifh, put to it white-wine, vine- 
Bal, and ae clofe up the head,and keep it for your ufe. 
: To fouce Conger, hs © cas = 
Take 2 ood fat conger, draw-it.at two fev — 
or holes,being firft {calded and the fins fhaved off, cut it 
into three or four pieces, then havea pan of fair water, 
and make it boil, put in the fith, withagood quantity 
of falt, and let it boil very “foftly half an hour : being 
tender boil’d, fet it by-for your ufe for prefent. {pen- 
ding; but to keep i it long boil it with as much ‘Wine as 


‘wd 


water, and a quart of white-wine vinegar. re wef: 


To Jouce Conger in Collars like Beaee 

Take the fore part ofa conger from. eclsitie it, 
and take out.the bone, being firft flayed jand it Ided, 
then havea good large’eel or two,flay'dal 10 4 anid’ | boned, 
feafoned. in the infide with. minced 1 nutmeg, Mace, a 
falt,, fea fone d and cold with the eel in thetic om ia 
it up hard in a clean cloth, boil it in fair, water, White- 
wine and'falc. ~ hei 


ay 


Deen ee! bs 2h 7 ei 
4 wcll 





ery: of Cookery. 


Baas bh mr eae 
ry Sw ot eee 4 


sensei sneeemenmiiatiorinelininions enna ans A 





. To voaft Conger. : 
Pr - " ~~ e".7. ae LLL 5 
#! 4 SON (Sots tlt 
in . oe z RESON Ne XS Ke ‘ . 
iy PARR 
bag zs \ CVWioeee ~ a 
, Scan 
= Wert 
SS MY) ANN DRS 
+. ; 3 Wada We. BOS = 


Take a good fat conger,draw it, wath it, and fcrape 
off the flime, cut off-che fins, and {pit itlike an S. draw 
it with rofemary and'time, put fome beaten nutmeg in 

his belly, faltsfome-ftripped time,and fome great oyfters — 
parboild, roaftit with the skin on,-and fave the gravy 
tor the fauce, boil’d up with a little claret-wine, beaten 
butter, wine vinegar, and an anchove or two, the fat 
blown off, and beat up thick with fome {weet butter, 
two or three flices of an orange, and elder vinegar. 

Or roaft it inthort_pi cés, and {pitit. with bay-leaves 
between, ftuck.wath tofemary. Or:make venifon fauce, 
and inftead of roafting it on’a fpit, roaft it in an oven. 






To broil Gonger, 
Take a good fat conger-being fealded and cut into 
pieces 5 faltthem,and broil them raw; or you may broil 
- them being firft boiled and bafted with butter, or {tee- 
ed in oyl and vinegar,broil them raw, and ferve them 
with the fame fauce you fteeped them in, baft them 
with rofemary, time, and parfley, and{erve them with 
the fprigs of thofe herbs about them, either in beaten 
butter, vinegar, or oyl and vinegar; “and-the forefaid 
herbs: or broil the pieces {platted like.a{pitch-cock of an 
eel, with theskin onit. | of 
LQ 





. To fry Gonger> | 
Being {calded, and the fins {haved off, {platit, cut it 
- intorouls round the conger, flour it, and-fry it in clari- 
fied butter crip, fauce it with butter beaten “with vi- 
negar, juyce of orange or lemon, and ferve it with fry- 
ed parfley, fryed ellickfanders, or clary in batter. 


To bake Conger in Pafty proportion, 





Juutt A 


Ce va 
eye ed) L 


r 


Bake it any way of the fturgeon, as you may feein 
the next Seétion, tobe eaten either hot or cold, and . 
make your piesaccordingtothefeforms. i; 









7 ae ae HES 
fis. iA 2 Po IPRS 


"The Art and Myftery of Cookery. $5 









P f* ¥ 
= - 


| See To few a Lump. : Ais 
Take it either flayed (or not) and boil it,being {plated 
‘ina dith with fome white-wine, a large mace or two, 
falt, anda whole onion, ftew them well together, and 
difh them on fine fippets, run it over with {ome beaten 
butter, beat up with two or three flices of an orange, 
and fome of the gravy of the fith, runic over the 
lump, and garnifh the meat with flict lemon, grapes, 
barberries, or goofeberries. wen : 


7 To bake a Lump. 
- Take a lump, and cut it into pieces, skin and all,or flay 
it, and part it in two pieces of a fide, feafon it with nut- 
meg; pepper, and falt, and lay ic inthe pye, lay onit a 
bay-leaf or two, three or four blades of large mace, the 
flices ofan orange, goofeberries, grapes, barberries,and 
butter, clofe icupand bake it, being baked liquor. it 
with beaten butter. vic 
Thus you may bake‘it in a difh, pye, or patty-pan. 


To boil Soals. sche 
_ Draw and flay them, then boil them in vinegar, fale, 
white-wine and mace, but let the liquor boil before 
you put them in ; being finely boil’d, take them up and 
difh them in a clean dith on fine carved fippets, garnifh 
the fifth with large mace, flic’t lemon, goofeberries, 
grapes, orbarberries, and beat up fome butter thick 
with juyce of oranges, white-wine, or grape verjuyce 
and run it over the filh.. Sometimes you may put fome 
{tew’d oyfters on them. ag 
Otherways. | 

Take the foals,flay and draw them,and {cotch one fide 
with your knife,lay them ina diih,Scpour on them fome 
ne / yine- 


Awa? 





- . ®eing well 








g64 + the eer 
vinegar and falt,let them lie in it half an hour, in the 
mean time fet onthe fire fome water, white-wine, 
fix cloves of garlick, anda faggot of {weet herbs; then 
put the fith into the boiling liquor, and the vinegar and 
falt where they were in {teep ; being boiled, take them 
up and drain them very well, then beat up {weet but- 
rer:very thick, and mix with it fome anchoves min- 
ced fmall,and diffolved.in the butter, pour it on the fith 
being difbed, and ftrow ona little'graved nutmeg, and 
minced orange mixt in the butter. © | ; 


To few Soaks, : , 

Being flayed and fcotched, draw them and half fry 
them, then take fome claret wine, and puttoit fome 
falt, grated ginger, anda little garlick, boil this fauce 
ina. difh, when ivboils put the foals therein, and when 
they are fufiiciently {tewed upon their backs, lay the 
two halves open on-the one fide and on the othersthen 
lay.anchoves finely wafhed and boned all along, and 
on the anchovesflices of butter} then turn the two fides 
over again, and let them ftew till they be ready to be 
eaten, then take them.out of the fauce, and lay them 
on a:clean dith, pour fome of the liquor wherein they 
were{tewed upon them, and {queeze on an orange. 











Horas? . 2: - Otberways. 

-© Draw, flay,and fcotch them,then flour them and half 
fry them in clarified butter, put them in a clean pewter 
ydith, and put to them three or four {poonfuls of claret 
wine, two of wine vinegar,two ounces of {weet butter, 
CAROL three slices of an orange,a little grated nutmeg, 
ree little falt ;. ftew them together clofe covered,and 








| vell gftew@ difh them up in a clean difh, Jay 

_ fome:slicedflemgh on them, and fome beaten butter, 

with juyce-oforgfges. - To 
ad rthras ‘ 






a ree Pees 
2 joe ist 


To drefs Soals otherways. . fie: 

Take a pair of Soals,lard them with water’d fale Sal- 
mon,then lay them on a pye-plate, and cut your lardall. 
of an equall length, on each fide lear it but fhort; then 
flour the Soals,and fry them in the beft alé you can gets 
when they are fryed lay them on a warm difh, and pue 
to them anchove fauce made of fome of the gravy in 
the pan, and twoor three anchoves, grated nutmeg, a 
little oy! or butter, andan onion {liced fmall, give ic a 
Warm, and pour it on them with fome juyce, and t 
or three flices of orange. * 
| To fouce Soals. oe 
- Take them very new, and fcotch them on the wpper’ 
or white fide very thick, not too deep, then have white- 
wine, wine vinegar, cloves, mace, fliced ginger,and fal, 
fet it over the fire to boil in a kettle fit Garierhen take 
parfley,tyme, fage,rofemary, fweet marjoram, and win- 
ter favory, the tops of all thefe herbs picked, in little 
branches,and fome great onions fliced,when it boils put. | 
in all the forefaid materials with no more liquor than : 
will juft cover them, cover them clofe in boiling, and 
boil them very quick, being cold difh them ina fair 
difh, and ferve them with flicéd lemon,and lemon-peels 
about themand onthem. | 4. - | 





365 





















Take three tenches, 2 carps, and four p 
them and wath out the blood clean, thenggrkt 




















: ; ty St 
, : y : im 
G6 0~CO paplitht 
5 m O71} % 


at,and to every pound of fifh take a pint of fair {pring- 
water or more, fet the fifh a boiling ina clean pip- 
kin or pot, and when ic boils {cum it, and put in fome i: 
fing-glafs,boil it till one fourth part be wafted ,then take 
itoff and ftrain it through a {trong canvas cloth, fer it 
tocool, and being cold, divide it into three or four fe- 
veral pipkins, asmuch in the one as in the other, take 
off the bottom and the top, and to every quart of broth 
put a quart of white-wine, a pound and a halfof refi- 
ned {ugar, two nutmegs, 2 races of ginger, 2 pieces of 
whole cinamon,.a grain of musk, and 8 whites of eggs; 

ftir them together with a rowling-pin, and equally di- 
Vide it into the feveral pipkins amongtft the jellies, fet 
them a ftewing upon a foft charcoal fire, when it boils 
ee it through the jelly-bags, and pour it uponthe 

QalS. 


| To voaft Soals. Ua 

Draw them, flay off the black skin, and dry them 
with a clean cloth, feafon them lightly with nutmeg, 
{alt,and fome {weet herbs chopped fmall, put them in 
adith with fome claret-wine and two or three ancho- 
~vesthe {pace of half an hour, being firft larded with 
{mall lard of a good frefh eel,then {pit them,roaft them: 
and fet the wine under them, bafte them with butter, 
and being roafted, difh them round the difh ; then boil 
up the gravy under them with three or four slices of an 
orange, pour on the fauce, and lay on fome slices of le- 
mon. \ . 

Marinate, broil, fry and bake Soals according as you 
do Carps, as you may fee inthe thirteenth Section. 


. oe 
Se ee | creer 


a | : -. SeGtiot 






oa 


Dae 
Ile! 
ty 


OR ciae @ 
~  ’'The Sixth SeGtion of F IS H. 


The A-la-mode ways of Drefing and 
ail Ordering of Sturgeon. 





_, To boil Sturgeon to ferve hot. 


7 Akea rand, wath off the blood, and !ay it in vine- 

gar and falt, with the slice of a lemon,fome large 
mace, slic’t ginger,and two or three cloves, then fet on 
a panof fair water, putin fome falt, and when it boils 
put in the.fifh,with a pint of white-wine,a pint of wine 
vinegar,and the forefaid {pices,but not the lemon ;_ be- 
ing finely boil'd,difh it on fippets,and fauce it with bea- 
ten butter, and juyce of orange beaten together,or juyce 
of lemon, large mace, slic’t ginger, and barberries, and. 
garnifh the difh with the fame. 


Othevways. 

_ Takearand and cut it in {quare pieces as big as a hens 
-egg,ftew them ina broad mouthed pipkin with two or 
three good big onions,fome large mace , two or three 
cloves,pepper,falt,fome slic’t nutmeg,a bay-leaf or two, 
fome white-wine and water, butter, anda race of slic’t 
-ginger,{tew them well together,and ferve them on fip- 
tim pak | pets 


Ss 



















~~ & ite c rei 
pets of French bread; run them over with beaten but- 


ter, slic’t lemonand barberries; and garnifh the difh 
with the fame: | fe 
so, ag Sturgeon buttered: a 
Boila rand,tail,or jole in water and falt, boil it tender; 
and ferve it with beaten butter and slic’t lemon. 


fh To make a hot Hab of Sturgeon, ~ ©. 

Take arand,wath it out of the blood,and take off the 
{cales,and skin,mince the meat very {mall,and feafonit 
with beaten mace, pepper, falt, and fome {weet herbs 
minced fmall,ftew all in an earthen pipkin with two or 
three big whole onions, butter,and white-wine ; being 
finely ftewed, ferve it on fippets with beaten butter; 
minced lemon, and boil’d chefnuts: 


To make acold Hal of Sturgeon, an eg 

Takea rand of fturgeon being frefh and new, bake it 
whole in an earthen pan dry,and clofe it up with a piece 
of courfe pafte; being baked and coldsliceitinto little 
slices as {mall as a three pence,and difh them in a fine 
clean difh, lay them round the bottom of it,and ftrow 
on them pepper,falt, a minced onion, a minced lemon; 
oyl, vinegar; and barberries 


To marinate a whole Sturgeon in rands and joles. 


_ Take a fturgeon frefh taken, cut itinjoles and rands; 
wath off the blood, and wipe the pieces dry from the 
blood and slime,flour them,& fry them in a isi xe kettle 
in four gallons of rape oy! clarified, being fryed fine and 
‘¢rifp,putit into great chargers; frayes, or bowls 5 then 
have 2 a being cold,pack it in them as you'do 


boil'd 


A 









= hae eas 


boil’d fturgeon that is kept in pickle, then make the 
fauce or pickle of 2 gallons of white-wine; and three 
gallons of white-wine vinegar; put to chem fix good 
andfuls of falc, 3 in each veflel, a quarter of a pound 
large mace, fix ounces of whole pepper, and three oun- 
tes of flic’t ginger;clofe it up in good found -veffels,and 
when you {ferve it, ferve it in fome of its own pickle; 
the {pices on it, and {lic’t lemon. | 


a To make a fare t meat of Sturgeon, 

Mince it raw with a good fat eel,and being fine min- 
ced, feafon it with cloves, mace, pepper,and {alt,mince 
fome fweet herbs and put to it, and make your farcings 
in the forms of balls; pears, ftars; or dolphins; if you 
pleafe ftuff carrots or turnips with it. | 


To dvefs a whole Sturgeor in Stoffado cut into Rands 
" and Foles to eat hot or cold, | 
_ Takea fturgeon; draw it, and partit intwo halves 
from the tail to the head, cut it into rands and joles.a 
foot long or more, then wath off the blood and flime, 
and {teep it in wine-vinegar, and white-wine, as much 
as will cover it, or lefs; put to ic eight ounces of flic’c 
ginger, fix ounces of large mace, four ounces of whole 
cloves, halfa pound of whole pepper, {alt,and a pound 
of flic’t nutmegs, let thefe fteep in the forefaid liquor 
fix hours, then put them into broad earthen pans flat 
bottomd,and bake them wich this liquor and {pices,co- 


ver them with paper, ic will ask four or five hours ba-. 


king ; being baked ferve them ina large difh in joles 
or rands,with large flices of French bread in the bottom 
of the difh,fteep them well with the forefaid broth they 
were baked in, fomeof the {pices onthem, fome 
flic’t lemon, barberries, grapes, or goofeberries,and le: 

Cc mon 










Fans 





fome of the fame broth, beaten butter, 
juyce o and oranges, and the yolks of eggs beat 









up thick. | 


If to eat cold, barrel it up clofe with this liquor and 


{pices, fill ic up with white-wine or fack, and head it up 


clofe, it will keep a year very well, when you fezveit, 
ferve it with slic’t lemon, and bay-leaves about it. 


To fouce Sturgeon to keep all the year. 
Take a Sturgeon, draw it,and part it down the back 


_in equal fides and rands, put it in a tub into water and 


falt, and wath ic from the blood and slime, bind it up 
with tape or packthred, and boil it in a veflel that will 
contain it, in water, vinegar, and falt> boil it not too 
tender ; being finely boil’d take it up, and being pretty 
cold, lay it ona clean flasket or tray till it be through 
cold, then pack it up clofe. 


To fouce Sturgeon in two good ftrong freet Firkins. 

Jf the Sturgeon be nine foot in length, 2 firkins will 
ferveit, the veffels being very well filled and packed 
clofe, put intoit eight handfuls of falt, fix gallons of 
white wine, and four gallons of white wine vinegar, 
clofe on the heads {trong and fure, and once a month 
turn iton the other end. : ated 

—Tobrotl Sturgeon, or toaft 1t againft the fire. 

Broil or ¢oaft a rand or jole of fturgeon that comes new 
out of the fea or river,(or any piece) and either broil it 
ina whole rand, orslices aninch thick, fale them, and 
fteep them in oy!-olive and wine vinegar,broil them on 
a foft fire,and: bafte them with rhe fauce it was fteeped 
in,with branches of rofemary,tyme, and parsley ; being 
finely broiled, ferve it ma clean dith with fome of the 
fauce it was bafted with, and fome of the branches ef 

| rofe- 








rofemary ; or bafte it with butter, and ferveit with 
butter and vinegar, being either beaten with flic’t le 
mon, or fuyce of oranges. .- | 
Wika | Otherways. 


Broil it on white paper, either with butter or aller =: 


Oy], if you broil it in oyl, being broil’d, put to it on™ 
the paper fome oyl, vinegar, pepper, and branches or’ 
flices of orange. If broil’d in butter, fome beatén Buc- 
ter, with lemon, claret; and nutmeg. 


r To fry Sturgeon, 2 ws 
. Take a rand of frefh {turgeon,and cutit into flices of 
half an inch thick, hack it, and being fried, it will look 
as if it were ribbed; fry it brown with clarified butter 5 
then take it up, make the pan clean,and put it in again | 
with fome claret winé;an anchove,falt, and beaten {af- 
fron; fryittillhalf be confamed, and then put ina 
piece of butter, fome grated nutmeg, grated ginger, 
and fome minced lemon; garnifh the difh with lemon, 
Sa it; and run jelly firft rubbed with aclove of gar- 
ick. ee 
+» Lo jelly Sturgeon. PP cit stows 
- Seafon a whole rand with pepper, nutmeg, and fale, 
bake it dry in an earthen pan,and being baked and cold, 
flice it into thin flices,ditfh it in a clean difh,the difh be- 
ine one ) ‘ 


| . + Toroaf Sturgeon, . 
_ Take a rand of freth fturgeon, wipe it very dry, and 
cut it in pieces as big as a goofe-égg, feafon them. with . 
nutmeg,pepper, and falt; and {tick each piece with two 
or 3 cloves,draw them with rofemary,& fpit them tho- 
row the skin,and put fome bay-leaves or fage-leaves be- 
tween every piece, bafte them with butter, and being’ 

; fe iy Y roatt- 





~ mons. 


To make Olines of Sturgeon flewed or voafted. = 


’ ‘Take {pinage,red fage,parfley, tyme,rofemary,fweet 
marjoram,and winter-favory,wath and chop them very 
fmall,and mingle them with fome currans,grated bread, 
yolks of hard eggs chopped {mall, fome beaten mace, 
nutmeg, cinamon, and falt; then havea rand of frefh 
fturgeon,cut in.thin broad pieces,& hackt with the back 
of 2 chopping knife laid ona {mooth pie-plate,ftrow on 
the minced herbs with the other materials, and roul 
them up in a roul,ftew them ina difh in the oven,with 
4 little white-wine or wine-vinegar, fome of the farcing - 


under them, and fome fugar ; being baked,make a lear 


with fome of the gravy, and flices of oranges and le- 


To make Olines of Sturgeon otherrcays, - | 
Take arand of fturgeon being new,cut it in fine thin 
flices,&¢ hack them with the back of a knife,then make 
a compound of minced herbs, as tyme, 

$ > 2-y Lavory, {weet marjoram, violet-leaves, 
Ss i ftrawberry leaves, {pinage, mints, for- 


Monee? aon 


= 2% rel,endive and fages; mince thefe herbs 
Rog S ee | 4 ~ ag’ 
- A yolksof hard eggs, currans, cinamon, 


Mi mingle all together, and ‘ftrow on the 

Gi compound herbs on the hacked olines, 
roul them up, and make piesaccording. 

to thefe forms, put butter in the bottom of them,and lay 
the olines on it; being full, lay on fome raifins, prunes, 
large mace, dates,flic’t lemon,fome goofeberries,grapes, 
: or 


*~ ap PS ‘ a +* ee 





Bi ota 


ag ' ane 

‘ : ue prea d | 
oa ee 

- ¥ 





> es - rae ee i -- — - = i “-—_ > 
-or barberries,and bucter,clofe themup andbake them, = 


_ being baked, liquor them with burter,white-wine, and 
‘fugar, ice them, and ferve them up hot. 


- To bake Sturgeon in Foles and Ranads dry 1n Earthen Pazs, 
_ and being baked ana cold, pickled. and barveld up, to 
. ferve hot orcold. | ' “ay 
__ Takea fturgeon frefh and new,part him down from a 

head to tail, and cut it into rands andjoles, caft itinto 

_fair water and falt,wafh off the flime and blood,and put 

it into broad earthen pans, being firft ftuffed with pen- 
niroyal, or other {weet herbs; {tick it with cloves and 

rofemary,and bake it in pans dry,(oralittle whice-wine =. 

to fave the pans from breaking ) then take white or 
claret wine and make a pickle,half as much wine vine- 

gar,fome whole pepper, large mace, flic’t nutmegs,-and 

fix or feven handfuls of falt ; being baked and cold,pack 

and barrel it up clofe, and fll it up with this pickle 

raw, head it up clofe, and when you ferve it, ferveit - 

with fome of the liquor and {lic’t lemon. 


To bake Sturgeon Pres.to-eat-colde.... 

Take a freth jole of {turgeon,{cale itjarid watlroff the | 
flime,wipe it dry,and lard it wich a good falt cel;feafon- ' 
ed with nutmeg, and pepper,cut the lard as bigas your 
finger, and being well larded, feafon the joleor rand 
with the forelaid {pices and falt,lay it in afquare pie in 
fine or courfe pafte, and- put fome whole cloves on it, 

fome flic’t nutmeg, flic’t ginger, and good ftore of bur- 
ter, clofe itup, and bake it, being baked fillicup with 
clarified butter. : ; 
To bake Sturgeon stherways with Salmon, 

Take arand of fturgeon,cut ic into large thick flices, 

& 2 rands of frefh falmon in thick flices as broad asthe | 
Cc 3 ftur. 












age 


fturgeon, feafon it with the fame feafoning as the for- 
mer, with {pices and butter; clofe it up and bake it ; be; 
ing baked,fill it up with clarified butter, Make your 
fturgeon pyes or pafties according to thefe forms, 














: ee saps ® 
‘ ei 4 Tape sp 
7 : a 
STR +, 
vid My . 
he <S0 nde Wit ye 
flo) 
8 


Takearand of flurgeon,flay it and wipe it witha dry 
cloth,and not wath it, cut ic into Jarge flices; then have 
carps;tenches, or a good large eel flayed and boned,your 
tenches and caips {caled, boned.,and wiped dry, feafon 
your fturgeon and the other fifhes with pepper,nutmeg, 
and falt,put butter in the bottom of the pie,and lay ay. 

g ste ee Et i pO ee Q : : oO 


ewie 4 , in 
whe 






ane. 4 a 4 Np te ag Sears 
<2 ‘ £Se tt Pare, fal ‘ “ie ae it i Bares eee, 
Le ih ee ee ee SE 


The Art and Myftery of Cook 





py 875" 


of {turgeon,and on thata lay of carps,then a lay of ftur-- 
geon, and a lay of eels, next a lay of fturgeon, and a lay 
of tench, and a lay of fturgeon above that; lay onit 
fome slic’t ginger,slic’t nutmeg,and fome whole cloves, 
put on butter, clofe it up, and bake it, being baked li- 
_quor it with clarified butter. Or bake it in potsas you 
_do venifon, and it will keep long, — i 
Otherways. 
_ Take arand of fturgeon, flay it, and mince it very 
fine, feafon it with pepper,cloves, mace, and falt; then 
have a good frefh fat eel or 2 flayed and boned,cut it in- 
to lard as big as your finger,and lay fome in the bottom 
of the pye, fome butter on it, and fome of the minced 
meat or {turgeon, and fo lard and meat till you have fil- 
led the pye, lay over all fome slices of fturgeon, sliced 
nutmeg,sliced ginger, and butter,clofe it up and bake ir, 
being baked fill it up with clarified butter. If to eat 
hot, give it but half the feafoning, and make your pyes 
according to thefe forms. ue es 





To bake frurgeon Pies to be eaten hot, 


Flay off the {cales and skin of a rand,cut it in piecesas 
_bigas a walnut,& feafon it lightly with pepper,nutmeg, 
and falt; lay butter in the bottom of the pye,put in the 
fturgeon, and put to it agood big onion or two whole, 
fome large mace, whole cloves, slic’t ginger,fome large 
oyfters,slic’t lemon,goofeberries, grapes, or barberries, 
and butter,clofe it up and bake it,being bak’d, fill it up 

yee "cg rich 


re 










Y Pasrs 
pia 


claret, 


Mek Ge ek Pa 


& 


and in Summer, peafe boil’d and putin the pye, being 


Otherways. * aeie pi: 

Cut a rand of fturgeon into pieces as big as ahens egg, © 
cleanfe it,and {eafon them with pepper, falt,ginger,and 
nutmeg, then make a pye and lay fome butter in the 
hottom of it, then the pieces of {turgeon, and two or 
three bay-leaves, fome large mace, three or four whole. 
cloves, fome blanched chefnuts,goofeberries,grapes, or 
barberries, and butter,clofe it up and bake it,and being 
baked, liquor it with beaten butter, and the blood of 
the fturgeon boil’d together witha littleclaret-wine. — 


To bake Sturgeon Pyes in dice work to be eaten hot. 





Take a pound of fturgeon, a pound of a frefh fareel,a 
pound of .carp, a pound of turbut, a pound of mullet, 
{caled, cleans’d, and bon’d,a tench,and.a lobfter, cut all 
the fifhes into the form of dice,and mingle with them a 
quart of prawns, feafon them all together with pepper, 
nutmeg & falr,mingle fome cockles among them,boil’ 
artichocks,frefh{almon, and afparagus all cut. into weg 
bee Se) be ‘ t- EE." eRe ft Pi aa mm Se es wor 


Prepop page: 








To make minced Pyes of Sturgeon. , 
Flay a rand of it,and mince it with a good-frefh water - 
eel,being flay’d and bon’d,then mince fome {weet herbs 
with an onion,feafon it with cloves, mace,pepper ,nut- 
meg and falt, mingle amongft it fome grapes, goofe- 
berries,or barberries, and fill the pye,having firft put 
fome butter in the bottom of it, lay onthe meat, and 
more butter on the top,clofe it up, bake it, and ferve it 
up hot. | ? 
Otherways. | 
~ Mince a rand of frefh fturgeon, or the fatteft part of 
it very {mall, then mincea little {pinage, violet leaves, 
ftrawberry leaves, forrel, parsley, age, favory, marjo- 
ram, and time, mingle them with the meat, fome gra- 
ted manchet,currans, nutmeg,falt,cinamon,cream,eggs, 
fugar, and butter, fill the pye, clofe it up, and bake it 
being baked ice it. tay | 
— Mazced Pyes of Sturgeon otherways. 

Flay a rand of fturgeon, and lard it witha good fat 
falt eel,roaft it in pieces,and {ave the gravy, being roa- 
fted mince it fmall,but fave fome to.cut into dice-work, 
alfo fome of the eels in the fame form,mingle it amongft 
the reft with fome beaten pepper, falr, nutmeg, fome 
- goofeberries, grapes, or barberries, put butter in. the 
bottom of the pye, clofe it up and bake it, being ba- 
ked liquor it with gravy, juyce of orange, nutmeg,and 
aoe. ce ea. SOME 


ek JR re GPR IAS, a a3 hae §, we 
* 


Bauer 
IMAL ANE 









378 , The Accomplifbt COOK: Or,, 


‘- cde ie ae * 





Sometimes add to it currans, {weet herbs, and faf- 
fron, and liquor it with verjuyce, fugar, butter, and 
— yolks of eggs. | Tig 


~ 


To make Chemits of Sturgeon, according to thefe Forms. 





Mince a rand of fturgeon the fatteft part, and {ea- 
fon it with pepper, falt, nutmeg, cinamon, ginger,cara- 
way-feed, rofe-water, butter, fugar, and orange peel 
minced, mingle.all together with{omeslic’t dates, and 
currans, and fill your pyes. me a 


To make a Lumber Pye of Stargeoz. 


Mince a rand of fturgeon with fome of the fatteft of 
the belly, or a good fat frefh eel, being minced, feafon 
it with pepper,nutmeg, falt, cinamon; ginger,caraways, 
slic’t dates, four or eight raw eggs, and the yolks of fix 
hard eggs in quarters, mingle all together, and make 
them into balls or rolls, fill the pye, and lay on them 
fome slic’t dates, large mace, slic’t lemon, grapes,goofe- 
berries,or barberries,and butter,clofe it up,and bake ir, 
being bak’d liquor it with butter, whité-wine,and fugar. 

Or only add fome grated bread, fome of the meat cut 
into dice-work, & fome rofe-water, bak’d in all points 
as the former;being baked cut up the cover,and {tick 3 
oO a Te OS ee ae 7 a 






| The Art and Myftery of Cookery. 379 


» with balls, with fryed fage-leaves in batter; liquor it 
as aforefaid, and lay on ita cut cover, {crape on fugar. 





To make an Olive Pye of Sturgeon tn the Italsan falhton. 

Make {lices of fturgeon, hack them, and lard them 
with falefalmon,or falt eel, then make a compofition of 
fome of the fturgeon cut into dice-work,fome freth eel, 
dry’d cherries, prunes taken from the ftones, grapes, 
fome muthrooms & oyfters ; feafon the forefaid: things 
all together in a difh or tray,with fome pepper,nutmeg, 
and falt, roul them in the flices of the hacked fturgeon 
with the larded fide outmoft, lay them in the pye with 
the butter under them ; being filled lay on it ome oy- 
fters, blanched chefnuts, mufhrooms, cockles, pine-ap- 
ple-feeds, grapes, goofeberries, and more butter, clofe — 
it up, bake ir, and then liquor it with butter, verjuyce, 
and fugar, ferve it up hot. | 


To bake Sturgeon to be eaten hot with divers farcings . 
haet or ftuffings. 
Take a rand and cut it into {mall pieces as big asa 
_ walnut, mince it with frefh eel,fome {weet herbs,a few 
green onions, pennyroyal, grated bread, nutmeg, pep- 
per, and falt, currans, goofeberries, and eggs ; mingle 
all together, and make it into balls, fill the pye with the 
whole meat and the balls, and lay on them fome large 
mace, barberries, chefnuts,yolks of hard eggs, and but- 
- ter; fill the pye, and bake it, being baked, liquor it 
with butter and grape-verjuyce. OR We 
~-Or mince fome fturgeon, grated parmifan, or good 
Holland cheefe, mince the fturgeon, and frefh eel toge- 
ther,being fine minced put fome currans to it, nutmeg, 
pepper, and cloves beaten, fome {weet herbs minced 
fmall, fome falc, faftron, and raw yolks of eggs, we 
Pe ee ge Mg eee, | ther 








ae 


| . tr MRR era Ce, ft oe 

in Other fluffings or Puddings’ © 
Grated bread, nutmeg, pepper, {weet herbs minced 
very fine, four or five yolks of hard eggs minced. very 
{mall, two or three raw eggs, cream, currans, grapes, 
‘barberries and fugar, mix them all together,eand lay 
them on the Sturgeon in the pye, -clofe it up and bake 
it, and liquor it with butter, white-wine, fugar, the 
yolk ofan egg, and then ice it. Bric RES TOR 


.. To make an Olio of Sturgeon with other Fifbes. 

‘Take fome fturgeon and mince it witha frefh eel, put 
toit fome {weet herbs minc’t fmall,fome grated bread, 
yolks of eggs, falt, nutmeg, pepper,fome goofeberries, 
grapes or barberries,and make it into little balls or rolls. 
‘Then have freth fith, {cal'd, wafhed, dryed, and parted 
into equal pieces,feafon them.with pepper,nutmeg, falt, 
and fet them by; then make ready fhell-fifh,and feafon — 
them as the other: fifhes lightly :withthe fame fpices. 
Then make ready roots,as potatoes,skirrets, artichocks 
and chefnuts,boil them, cleanfe them, and feafon them 
with the former fpices. Next. have yolks of hard eggs, 
large mace,barberries,grapes, or goofeberries, and but- 
ter, make your pye, and put butter inthe bottom of it, 
mix them all together, and fill the’ pye,then put in two 
or three bay-leaves, and afew whole cloves, mix the 
minced balls among the other meat and roots; then 
lay on the top {ome large mace, potatoes, barberries, 
srapes, or goofeberries, chefnuts, piftaches and butter, — 
clofe itupand bake ir, fill ic up with beaten burter,bea- 
ten with the juyce of oranges, difhiand cut up the co- 
ver, and putall over it flic’t lemons, and fometimes 
to the lear the yolk of anegg or two, | | 


i * . a ee rey? 
[e Vitiy aa site 
ee, ht ey Ro hey oad: tas eee 
H nae * ~*~ us re é | Said 
t Aaa 


The Art and Myftery of 





Sao To make minced Herring Pies. 

Take falt herrings being watered, crufh them be- 
tween your hands, and you {hall loofe the tifh from the 
skin, take off the skin whole, and lay them in a dith ; 
then havea pound of almond pafte ready mince the her- 


rings,agd {tamp them with the almond pafte,two of the 


milts or rows, five or fix dates, fome grated manchet, 
fugar,fack, rofe-water, and {affron, make the compofi- 
tion fomewhat ftiff, and fill the skins, put butter in the 
bottom of your pye, lay on the herring, and on them 
dates, goofeberries, currans, barberries,and butter,clofe 
‘it upand bake it, being baked liquor it with butter, 
verjuyce, and fugar. 3 . 

_ Make minced pyes of any meat, as you may fee in 
page 232. inthe difhes of minced pyes you may ufe 
thofe forms for any kind of minced pies, either of flefh, 

_fith, or fowl,which I have particularized in fome places 
of my Book, 
Otherways. 


— 


Bone them, and mince them being finely cleanfed 3 


with 2 or three pleafant pears, raifins of the fun, fome 
currans, dates,fugar, cinamon, ginger, nutmeg, pepper, 
and butter, mingle all together,fill your pies, and being 
baked, liquor them with verjuyce, claret, or white- 
wine. 


To make minced Pies of Ling,Stoch-filb,Harberdine,&c. - 
Being boil’d take ic from the skin and bones, and 
mince it with fome pippins,feafon it with nutmeg,cina- 
mon, ginger, pepper, caraway-feed, currans, minced rai- 
fins, rofe-water, minced lemon-peel, fugar, {lic’c dates, 
white-wine, verjuyce, and butter, fill your pyes, bake 

them, and ice them. ; 
Others 


\ 








| Otherways. ee 
Mince them with yolks of hard eggs, mince alfoall 
manner of good pot-herbs, mix them together,and fea-- 
fon them with the feafoning aforefaid, then liquor it 
with butter, verjuyce, fugar, and beaten cinamon, and 
then ice them ; making them according to thefe,forms; 


ty 


LY 4% 
=i: 












Vea Mea 
bam S  ¢ ‘at 


; . c thy” Gaur PR ad y “a 






a be TEA x ( 


ace tis 5 is it 7 bee ey a if a Bi “ pad ame ie : Y o ae 
<g cory a aes ¥ : mi: ath we ey ie 
The Art and Myftery of Cookery. 





Seétion XIX. Nas 


/ 


OR, 
The Seventh Section of FISH. 


Shewing the exatheft Ways of Drelfing all mane - 


ner of Shell.Fifh. 








ay To ftew oyfters 12 the French Way. 
de oyfters, open them and parboil them in their 
A own liquor,the quantity of three pints or a pottles 
being parboil’d, wafhthem in warm water clean from 
the dregs, beard them and put them in a pipkin with a 
little white wine, & fome of the liquor they were par- 
boil'd in, a whole onion,fome falt,and pepper, and ftew 


them till they be half done; then put them and their 


liquor into a frying-pan, fry them a pretty while, put to 
them a good piece of {weet butter,and fry them a there- 


in fo much longér,,then have teri or twelve yolks ofeggs _ 


diflolved with fome vinégar, wherein you muft put in 
fome minced parsley, and fome grated nutmeg, put 
thefé ingredients into the oyfters,{hake them in the fry- 

ing-pan a warm of two, and ferve them up. 

| To ftew Oyftérs otherways. 

Take a pottle of large great oyfters, parboil them in 
their own liquor,then wath them in warm water from 
the diregs,é put them ina pipkin witha good big onion 
3 : or 


383 


384 The Accomplifit COOK: Or, 









+ te Seely Viet -—. ry 





two, and five or fix blades of large mace, a little whole 
pepper,a flic’t nutmeg,a quarter of a pint of white wine; 
as much wine-vinegar,a quarter ofa pound of {weet but- 
ter, and a little falt,ftew them finely together on a foft 
fire the {pace of half an hour, then difh them on fippets~ 
of French bread, flic’t lemon on them,and barberries,run 
them over with beaten butter,and garnifh the difh with 
dryed manchet grated and fearfed. : 


re To few Oyfters otherways: = 
Take a pottle of large great oyfters, parboil them in 
their own liquor,then wath them in warm water, wipe — 
them dry,and pull away the fins,flour them and fry them 
in clarifi'd butter fine and white,then take them up,and — 
put them ina large difh with fome white or claret wine; 
a little-vinegar, a quarter of a pound of {weer butter, 
fome grated nutmeg, large mace,falt, and two or three 
flices of an orange,{tew them two or three warms,then 
ferve them in a large clean {cowred difh,pour the iauce’ 
on them, andrun them over with beaten butter, {lic’c 
Jemon or orange, and fippets round the difh, ; 


: . Otherways. 6 | 

Take a pottle of great oyfters,and ftew them in their 
own liquor; then take them up, wafh them in warm 
water, takeoff the fins, and put them ina pipkin with 
{ome of their own liquor, a pint of white-wine, a little 
wine vinegar,fix large maces,2 or three whole onions,a — 
race of ginger flic’t,a whole nutmeg flic’t,twelve whole 
pepper corns,falt,a quarter of a pound of {weet butter, 
and a little faggot of {weet herbs; ftew all thefe toge- 
ther very well,then drain them through a cullender,and 
difh them on fine carved fippets ; then take fome of the 
liquor they were ftewed in; beat it up thick witha 
| minced 








> yy emma daastat la 
mE rere: 








‘ Pi 





F The Art and Myftery of Cookery. | 
minced lemon, and halfa pound of butter,pour it onthe 
oyfters being difhed,and garnith the difh and the oyfters 
with grapes, grated bread, {lic’t lemon, and barberries. 


Or thin. 


- Boil great oyfters in their fhells brown,and dry,but 


burn them not,then take them out ard put them ina pip- 
kin with fome good {weet butter, the juice of two or 
three oranges, a little pepper, and grated nutmeg; give 
them a warm,and difh them in a fair {cowred dith with 
carved fippets,and garnifh ic with dryed,grated, fearfed 


, 


fine manchet. 


. Lomake Oyfter Pottage. 

Take forne boil'd peafe,ftrain them and put them in 
a. pipkin with fome capers,fome {weet herbs finely chop- 
ped,fome falt,and butter; then have fome great oyfters 
tryed with fweet herbs, and grofly chopped, put them 
to the {trained péate,{tew them together,ferve them on 
a clean {cowted difh on fine carved fippets, and garnifh 
the difh with grated bread. eet? 
‘Otherways. 


Takea quart of great oyfters, parboil them in their 


own liquor, and ftew them ina pipkin with fome ca- 
Tag. 3 mace,a faggot of {weet herbs,falt,and butter, 
yeing finely ftewed, ferve them on slices of dtyed 
French bread, round the oyftersslic’t lemon,and on the 
pottage boil'd {pinage, minced, and buttered, buc firft 
pour on the broth. : 


! To make 4 Hah of Oyfters. . 

Take three quarts of great oyfters,parboil them,and 
fave their liquor,then mince 2 quarts of them very fine, 
and put them a ftewing in a pipkin with half a pint of 

, Dd white 










_ white wine,a good big onion or two, fome large mace 
a grated nutmeg,fome chefnuts,and piftaches, and three — 
or 4 {poonfuls of wine-vinegar, a quarter of a pound of © 
good {weet butter,fome oyfter liquor, pepper,falt,and a 
faggot of {weet herbs ;{tew the forefaid together upona — 
foft fire the {pace of half an hour,then take the other oy- 
fters,and feafon them with pepper, falt,and nutmeg, fry 
them in batter made of fine flour, egg, falt, and cream, 
make one half of it green with juyce of {pinage, and — 
{weet herbs chopped {mall,dip them in thefe batters,and 
. fry them in clarified butter,being fried keep them warm, 
in an oven;then havea fine clean large dith, lay flices of 
’ French bread all over the bottom of the difh, fcald and 
{teep the bread with fome gravy of the hath, or oyfter- 
liquor,& white wine boil’d together;difh the hafhall o- © 
ver the flices of bread,lay on that the fryed oyfters,chef- 
nuts, and piftaches;then beat upa lear or fauce of butter, 
juyce of lemon or oranges,five or fix,a little white-wine, 
the yolks of 3 er 4. eggs,and pour on this fauce over the 
hafh, with fome flic’t lemon, and lemon-peel ; garnith 
the difh with grated bread, being dryed and fearfed, © 
fome piftaches,chefnuts,carved lemons,& fryed oyfters. 
Sometimes you may ufe mufhrooms boild in water, © 
falt,fweet herbs-large mace, cloves, bayleaves, two or 
three cloves of garlick, then take them up, dip them in © 
batter & fry them brown, make fauce for them with © 
claret,and the juyce of two or three oranges, falr, butter, | 
the juyce of horfe-raddifh roots beaten and ftrained, | 
grated nutmeg, and pepper, beat them up thick with — 
the yolks of two or three eggs, do this fauce ina frying- | 
pan, fhake them well together, and pour it on the hafh | 
with the mufhrooms. | | 
To marinate great oyfters to be eaten hot. ~ 4 
‘Take three quarts of great oyfters ready Opener: 
| 7 aed 


ges ack. ee! Wi aoe —_ ane . | ee nee a : R 




















‘2 


fi 


tb ne 
ee are Bid 
ae tp 4 { 





oo 








ery of Cooker 


5 Dae By 


The Art bid Myft 


‘ ®, 





todas 


ceive 





¥ 





wafh them in warm water, wipe them dry and flour. 
them, fry them crifp ina frying-pan with three pints of 


{weet fallet oy], put them in a difh,and fer them before 


the fire,or ina warm oven;then make {auce with white 
Wine, wine-vinegar, four or five blades of large mace, 
two or three flic’t nutmegs, two races of {flic’t ginger; 
fome twenty cloves, twice as much of whole pepper, 
and fome falt; boil all the forefaid fpicesin a pipkin, 
with a quart of white wine, a pint of wine vinegar, 
rofemary, tyme, ‘inter favory, {weet marjoram, bay, 
leaves,fage,and parfley,the tops of all thefe herbs about 
an inch Jong ; then take three or four good lemons,flic’t 
dith up the oyfters in a clean {cowred difh, pour on the 
broth,herbs,and {pices on them, lay on the flic’t lemons, 
and run it over with fome of the oy] they were fried 
in,and ferve them up hot.Or fry them in clarified butter 


olga @ Overt in -Stojadop 
Parboila pottle or three quarts of great Oyfters, fave 
the liquor and wafh the oyfters in warm water, then af- 
ter fteep them in white-wine, wine-vinegar, flic’t nut- 
meg, large mace, whole pepper, falt, and cloves ; give 
them a warm on the fire,fet them off and let them f{teep 
two or three hours; then take them out, wipe them 
ary,dip them in batter made of fine flour, yolks of eggs, 
fome cream and falt, fry them, and being fryed keep. 
them warm,then take fome of the {pieggliquor,fome of 
the oyfters-liquor,and fome butter, beatiefe things up 
thick with the flices of an orange or two, and two or 
three yolks of eggs; then difh the fryed oyfters in a fine 
élean difh on a chafing-difh of coals, run ‘onthe fauce o- 
ver them with the fpices, flic’t orange, and barberries, 
and garnifh the difh with fearfed manchet. 7 


Ddz To 


} 
| 


boil them in their own liquor, then take them out and 





©=mace, and preferved barberries. 





| To Felly Oyfters. Pippin = 
Take ten flounders, two {mall pikes or plaice, and 4 
ounces of ifing glafs ; being finely cleanfed, boil them 
ina pipkin ina pottleof fair {pring-water, anda pottle 
of white-wine, with fome large mace,and {lic’t ginger ; 
boil them to a jelly, and ftrain it through a ftrainer in- 
‘to a bafon or deep difh ; being cold pare off the top and 
bottom and put itinapipkin, with the juyce of {ix or” 
feven great lemons to a pottle of this broth, three 
pound of fine fugar beaten in a difh. with the whites of 
twelve eggs rubbed all together witha rouling-pin,and 
put amongft the jelly ; being melréd, but not too hor, 
fet the pipkin on a foft fire to ftew, put in ita grain OF 
musk,and as much ambergriec¢ well rubbed, let it ftew 
half an hour on the embers, then broil itup, and fet it 
run through your jelly-bag; then ftew the oyfters in 
white wine, oyfter-liquor, juyce of orange, mace, flic’t 
nutmeg,whole pepper, fome falt, and fugar ; difh them 
inafine clean difh with fome preferved barberries, large 
mace,or pomegranat kernels,and run the jelly over them — 
in the:difb, .garnifh the difh with carved lemons, large 
To pickle Oyfters. ne 
"Take eight quarts of oyfters, and parboil. them 
in their own liquor, then take them out, wafhthem in 
warm water apg wipe them dry, then take the liquor 
they were pémpeil’d in, and clear it from the grounds © 
into alargepipkin or skillet, put toit a pottle of good 
white-wihe , a quart of wine vinegar, fome large * 
mace, whole pepper, and a good quantity of fale, | 
fet ic over the fire , boil it leifurely , {Cum it” 
clean, and being well boil'd put the liquor into eight 
=e nee, ar- 







oes 





Paar eRne Art and Myftery of Cookery. 389. 


barrels of a quart a piece, being cold, put in the oyfter, 
-andclofe up the head. : wk GL. 


a 


Ortherways. | <i 
Take eight quarts of the faireft oyfters that can be 
gotten,frefh and new, atthe full of the Moon, parboil 
them in their own liquor, then wipe them dry with 
a cleancloth, clear the liquor from the dregs, and put 
the oyfters in a well feafon’d barrel that will but juft 
hold them, then boil the oyfter liquor with a quart of 


white-wine, a pint of wine-vinegar, eight or ten blades _ 
of large mace,an ounce of whole pepper, four ounces of 


white falt, four races of {lic’t ginger,and twenty cloves, 
‘boil thefe ingredients four or five warms, and being 
cold, put them tothe oyfters, clofe up the barrel, and 
keep it for your ufe. 


When you ferve them, ferve them in a fine clean 
difh with bay-leaves round about them, barberries, 
flict lemon, and flic’t orange. 

To fouce Oyfers to ferve hot or cold. \ 
_ Take a gallon of great.oyfters ready opened, parboil 
them in their own liquor,and,being well parboil’d,put 
them into a cullender, and fave the liquor ; then wath 
the oyfters in warm water from the grounds & grit, fet 
them by, and make a pickle for them witha pint of 
whiteé-wine,&chalf apint of wine vinegar,put ic in a pip- 
kin with fome large mace, {lic’t nutmegs, flic’t ginger, 
whole pepper, three or four cloves, and {ome {alt, give 
it fouror five warms and put in the oyfters into the 
warm pickle with two {lic’t lemons, and lemon-peels; 
cover the pipkin clofe to keep in the {pirits, {pices, and 


liquor. 
To voaft Oyfters, 
Strain the Aiquox from the oyfters, wafh them very cles 
j * 3 fe cid! 


i Se 


ot Ae fey ie 






890 . 





a fcald in boiling liquor or water ; then 


range. . bith 3 


Otherways. jig he 
Take the greateft oy{ters you can get, being opened 
parboil them in their own liquor, fave the liquor,8¢wath 
| the oyfters in fome water,wipe them dry,& being a 
Bide of ced beg ae Te ae aa - ar 


5 ee ES is eer a ‘oi 
The Art and Myftery of 391 


Tard them with eight or ten Jardons through each oy- 
fter,the lard being firft feafoned with cloves,pepper,& 
nutmeg,beaten very fmall;being larded,fpit them upon 
two wooden fcuers, bind them to an iron fpit and roft 
them, bafte them with anchove fauce made of fome of 
the oyfter-liquor, let them drip in it, and being enough 
bread them with the cruft of a roul grated, then di 
them, blow the fat off the gravy, put itto the oyfters, 
and wring on them the juyce of a fertion: 


To broil Oy fters. 

Take great oyfters and fet them on a gridiron with 
the heads downwards, put them up an end, and broil 
them dry, brown, and hard, then put two or three of 
them ina fhell with fome melted butter, fer them on 
the gridiron till they be finely ftewed,then difh them on 
a plate, and fill them up with good butter only melted, 
or beaten with juyce of orange, pepper them lightly, 
and ferve them up hot. 

To broil Oyfters otherways upon paper. 

Broil them on a gridiron as before, then take them 
out Of the fhells into a difh, and chufe out the faireft, 
- thenhavea fheet of white paper made like a dripping 
pan, fet it on.the gridiron,and run it over with clarif- 
ed butter, lay on fome {age leaves, fome fine thin flices 
of afat freth eel,being parboil’d, and fome oyfters,ftew 
them onthe hot embers, and being finely broil’d, ferve 
them ona difh and a plate in the paper they are boil'd 
in, and put to them beaten butter, juyce of orange, and 
flicees Of lemon. 

To broil large Oyfters otherways. 
Take a pottle ofgreat oyfters opened & parboil them 
in there ownliquor,being done,pour them in toa cullen- 
9 ills bull  Da4 der 


“dD ods 
* v - Sage 
- 7 etal 





Cookery. | 





“ E iy 5 ; . hae: 
ee SS Se ae ‘ 5 
; sa Heys ett ™ 
92 en A cE 2 oO 
ee < Peal “ es = 


- der, and fave the liquor,then wath che oyft 






grounds, wi the oyfters in warm - 
water from the grounds,wipe them witha clean cloth, 


beard them,and put them in a pipkin,put to them large 
mace,two great onions,fome butter,fome of their own — 
liquor, fome white-wine, wine vinegar, and falt; ftew 
them together very well, then fet fome of the largeft - 
fhells,ona gridiron, put 2 or 3 ina fhell, with fome of 
the liquor out of the pipkin, broil them on a foft fire, 
and being broil’d, fec them ona difhand plate, and fill 
them up with beaten butter. . | “9 
Sometimes you may bread them in the broiling. 


To fry Oyfters. | eee 

Take two quarts of great Oyfters being parboil’d in 
their own liquor, and wafhed in warm water, bread 
them, dry them, and flour them, fry them in clarified 
butter crifp and white, then have butrer’d prawns or 
f{hrimps,butter’d with cream and {weet butter, lay them 
inthe bottom of aclean difh, and lay'the fryed oyfters 
round about them, run them over with beaten butter, 
juyce of oranges, bay-leaves {tuck round the Oyfters, 
and flices of oranges or lemons. oe 


— Otherways, 


Strain the liquor from the oyfters, wath them, and 
parboil them in a kettle, then dry them and roul them 
in flour,or make a batter with eggs, flour,a little cream, 
and falc, rou! chem in it, and fry them in butter. For » 
the fauce, boil the juyce of two or three oranges, fome 
of their own liquor, a flict nutmeg, and claret; being. 
boil'd.alittle;put ina piece of butter,beating itup thick, 


then warm the difh, rub ic with a clove of garlick, dith 


the oyfters, and garnith them with flices of orange. . 
| £0 


: * 


é ee ; é 
~The Art and Myftery of Cookery. 393 
To bake Oyfers, 7 


- Parboil your oyfters in their own liquor, then take 


them out and wafh them in warm water from the ae 
dry them and feafon them with pepper, nutmeg, yolks 
of hard eggs, and fale; the pye being made, put a few 


currans in the bottom,and lay on the oy{ters,with fome 


flic’t dates in halves, {ome large mace, flic’t lemon,bar- 
berries and butter, clofe it up and bake it, then liquor 
it with “white-wine, fugar, and butter; or in place of 
white-wine, ufe verjuyce. ie 


: The Forms of Oyfter Pryes. 





: aa es 
fe 2 < ~ 
z 5 it 
om RES y tee an ape ey eae 
[I — LLSS==S - cb PSC eR 
4 ‘ 2; r 


“<= To bake Oyfters otherways.. ae 
. Seafon them with pepper, falt, and nutmegs, the 


fame quantity as beforefaid, and the fame quantity of © 


oyfters, two.or three whOle onions,neither currans nor 


fugar, but add to it in all refpects elfe ; as flic’t “nutmeg ~ 


on them,large mace, hard eggs in halves,barberries,and 


butter, liquor it with beaten nutmeg, white-wine, and _ 
jyceoforanges, - gee toast’ 3s Other 


J 4 K- 


hen 





= . 
s ° 
' 
% i 
AOL a Se OR OIRO PEIN aE ns A 


' 
i: 
4 
: 





394 The Accomplifht COOK: Or, : 


Otherways, for change, in the feafoning put to the, 
chopped tyme,hard eggs, fome anchoves, and the for,. 
faid {pices. iat ye 
| ~ Or bake them in Florentines, or patty-pans, and giv, 
. . -them the fame feafoning as you do the pies. 
. . Or take large oyfters, broil them dry and brown in 
~- the fhells,and feafon them with former {pices, bottoms 
of boil'd artichocks, pickled mufhrooms,and no onions, 
» -but all things elfe as the former, liquor them with 
beaten butter, juyce of orange, and fome claret wine. 


Cg 


hel 
vd % 


Bge Se 2" Says « Otberwmays.. 


~~ Being parboil’d in their own liquor,featon them with 
eos little Gic tweet herbs minced {malt one {poonful, fill 
** thepie, and put into it three or four blades of large 
_.”. mace,2 flic’t lemon,and on flefhdays a good handful of 
*. marrow rouled in yolks of eggs and butter, clofe it up 
-andbakeit, make liquor for ic with two nutmegs gra- 

~ ted, alittle pepper, butter, verjuyce, and fugar.. 


Sea eeens To make an Oyfter Pye otherways, 


‘. .*: Fakea pottle of oyfters,being parboil’d in their own 
- © ~~ fiquor,beard and dry them,then feafon them with large 
. «mace, whole pepper, a little beaten ginger, falt,burcer, 
2 >and marrow, then clofe it up and bake it, and being ba- 
0 Iked, make a lear with white wine the oyfter liquor,and 
one onion,or rub the ladle with garlick you beat it u 

 ~with all; it being boil'd,put in a pound of butter, wit 
© aminced lemon, a faggot of fweet. herbs, and being 


-s- poil'd putin theliquor. Tadesehore| mapene we 


} 4 


; * 
ey 4 : 
a ” Pt 45 * o oem an : OE 
‘ . 
ot ee testes ‘ ; A to hte : ‘ re a F 
eed ¥ ; $ a Ny ; 
es 3 r) : ¢ aed mere a eal ee 4 
: t here pe ny wee : * ; e 
a Ae wd " ‘ ¢ . * ey : ; 
: e 4 5 f < a 
. : a, ? 
7 r , ary ae» ¥ . t : : 
ras t - \ a a 
. ‘ 
- 


. 


The Art and Myftery of Cookery. 395 
NE 
To make minced Pres or Chewits of Oyfters. 





. re es : 4 tay =h . bes ; i 


* pe 
- ‘ 
1 , 


Take three quarts of great oyfters ready opened and Ee 


parboil'd in their own liquor, then wath chem in warm 
water from the dregs, dry them and mince them very 
fine, feafon them lightly wich nutmeg, pepper, falr 
cloves, mace ,cinamon, caraway-feed , rae minced, 
rafins of the fun, flic’c dates, fugar,currans, and half a 
pint of white wine, mingle all together, and put butter 
in the bottoms of the pies, fill chem up and bake them. 
To bake Oy fers otherways. 
~ Seafon them with pepper, falc, nutmeg, and fweet 
herbs {trowed on them in the pie, large mace, barber- 
ries, butter, and a whole onion ortwo, for liquor a lit- 
tle white wine, and wine-vinegar,beat it up thick with 
butter,and liquor the pie,cut it up, and lay ona {lic’t le- 
mon, let not the lemon boil in it, and ferve it hoe. 
«aS therways. 


” Seafon them as before with pepper, nutmeg,and falr, ee: 


being bearded, but firft fry them in clarified butter, then 
take them up and feafon them, lay them in the pie being . 
cold, put butter to them and large mace, clofe it up and 


bake ic ; chen make liquor with a litcle claret wineand ~—— 


juyce of oranges, beat ic thick with butter, and a little 
wine.vinegar, liquor the pie, lay on fome flices of o- 
range, and fer it again into tye oven a little while.. 


- Ses : 


cee 


. « 
" od ‘3 
he : 
- aa 
x 
~ 


—5y3_ Tee Aconplfe COOK Or, 


’ 
2 er 





eee 
2 a Bs 
; 


< ba 

iat — : 
* 
-—— 


Fo bake Oyfters otherways. | 
- Take great oyfters, beard them, and feafon them with 
* grated nutmeg, falt,and fome {weet herbs minc’d {mal}. 

te them in the pye with a {mall quantity of the fwee; 
herbs ftrowed on them, fome twenty whole corns of 


“*_ pepper, flic’t ginger, a whole onion or two, large mace, 


and fome butter, clofe it upand bake it, and make ]j- 


-* “quor with white-wine, fome of their own liquor, and 
. aminced lemon, and beat it up thick. oe 


: Fo. Pag 

Ay + ee ae Bias > ve > : 9 £ £2: . , iho Me, : t 

ee : 3 ; 
Otherways. 


* Broil great oyfters dry in the fhells, then take them 


o 


~*~ out, and feafon them with great nutmeg ,pepper, and 


oie 


= 
tea 
st 


ee” 
ge Fen 


* 
Lee 


2 bec aoe 


»é 
& 
v ® 


fnage ty ok 
7 a 


Ms <ul 


<~ +. being finely cleans’d from the grit,feafon them with nut- 
meg, pepper, and falc, next have chefnuts roafted, and 


ic ~, fale, lay them in the pye,and {trow on them the yolks of 


~ gwohard eggs minced,fome ftripp'd tyme,fome capers 
“large mace, and butter ; clofeit up, and make liquor 





has 


“2 swith claret wine, wine pprcest a DULY, and juyce of o- 


* ranges, and beat it up thick, and liquor the pye, fet it a- 
-gain into the oven a little while, and ferve it hor. 


~ =: To make a made Difh of Oyfters and other Compounds, 


-- .7Fake oyfters,cockles,prawns, craw-fith, and fhrimps, 


_ blanch’t, skerrets boil’d, blanched and {eafoned ; then 


ma have a difh or patty-pan ready with a fheet of cool but- 


ger pafte, lay fome butter on it,then the fithes, and on 


them the skirrets, chefnuts,piftaches,flic.t lemon, large 
' mace,barberries.tnd butcter;clofe it up and bake it, and 


-. - being baked, fillicup with beaten butter, beat with 
* + jayce of oranges,and {ome white-wine,or beaten butter 


witha litcle wine-vinegar, verjuyce, or juyce of green 


~- grapes, or alittle good:freth fith broth, cut it up and 
pRviRS i ae gt Rah Se liquor 


~ = { 
“ ‘ : ye 





ms. 






Pp . 
a $ a, oe oe e 
ax * ne : i vig Pe cf ¢ 

. rz: S x 3 i aw = 
a ae ’ aw ; 7 . 
t « : 
zs F 4 





i vie _ 
ag ee 
is @e eee 
¢ : gy Oy se 1 Of 

vs <*> 9) oe 





] 4 = 
‘ PF - = mn v¢ t ty! 
¥ id #4 « . o) oars =a -_ 
: San ~ og 
so PP we ‘ i dative ces be 
wy . ‘ Ong s tee . 
’ — ’ : tat : 
- H ef te fh 
2 .. é 
- + 
‘ és ah 
. ty 
J 
; 4 





E 
| 





——-- To make cool Butter-Pafte for this Difh. 

— Taketoevery peck of flour five pound of butter,and 
the whites of fix eggs, work it well together dry, then 
put cold water to it; this pafte is good only for patty- 
pans and patties. | 


To make Pafte for Oyfter-Pices, 
_ The pafte for thin bak’t meats muft be made with | 
boiling Jiquor,put to every peck of four two pound of 
butter, butlet the butter boil in the liquor firft. ~- 


e5): To fryMufbrooms. ore 
- Blanch them & wafh them clean if they be large,quar- 
ter them,and boil them with water, falt,vinegar, {weet 
herbs, large mace, cloves, bay-leaves, and two or three 
cloves of garlick,then take them up,dry them,dip them 
in batter and fry them in clarifi’d butter till they be 
brown,make fauce for them with claret-wine,the juice 
of two or three oranges, falt, butter, the juyce of horfe- 
raddith roots beaten and ftrained,flic’t nutmeg, and pep- 
per; put thefe into a frying pan with the yolks of two 
or 3 eggs diflolved with fome mutton gravy, beat. and 
fhake them well together in the pan that they curdle 
not; then difh the mufhrooms on a difh, being firft 
rubbed with a clove of garlick, and garnifh it with o- 
ranges, and lemons. 
To drefs Mulbrooms in the Italian Fafhion. 
Take mufhrooms,peel & wafh them,and boil them in 
a skillet with water and falt,bur firft lec the liquor boil 
with {weet herbs, parfley, anda cruft of bread, being 
boil’d,drain them from the water,and fry them in fate 
allet 


? 












-fallet oy]; being fried ferve them in a difh with oyl, 
vinegar,pepper,and fryed parfley. Or fry them in clari- 
fied butter. ayy ae 


eA Re, (hh Gas ht 0 
 Accomplifht CO 
* te 


| To flew Mulhrooms. pk 
Peel them,and put them in a clean difh,ftrowfalt on 
- them,and put an onion to them,fome {weet herbs, large 
mace,pepper,butter,falt, and two or three cloves, bein 
tender ftewed ona foft fire, put to them fome grate 
~ bread, anda little white wine, {tew them a little more 
and difh them ( but firft rub the difh with a clove of 
garlick ) fippet them, lay flic’t orange on them,and run 
them over with beaten butter. ee 


| To few Mufhrooms otherways. 


"Take them frefh gathered, and cut off the end of the 
ftalk, and as you peel them putthem in a difh-with 
_white wine;after they have laid half an hour,drain them 
from the wine, and put them between 2 filver difhes,- 
and fet them ona foft fire without any liquor, & when 
they have ftewed a while pour awaythe liquor that 
comes from them ;then put your mufhrooms into ano- 
ther clean difh with a fprig of time,a whole onion,4 or 
five corns of whole pepper, two or three cloves, a piece 
of an orange, a little falr, and a piece of good butter,& 
fome pure gravy of mutton, cover them, and fet them 
ona gentle fire, fo let them ftew foftly till they be e-. 
nough and very tender ; when you difh them, blow off 
the fat from them, and take out the time, {pice, and o- 
range from them, then wring in the juyce of a lemon, 
and a little nutmeg among the mufhrooms, tofs them 
two or three times, and put them in aclean difh, and 
ferve them hot to the table- tain 

o 





ae" gm Ks ye wh a Br, a “a ve sas it . i cin n v Mt Tot 
y a f a J pe oy en R . rw 
iA ’ PETS Rs i w a : cy Var! p ; 
- 5; Yim “ey a oy a , y iF Mi . : . : ‘ 
| The Art and M. : ; COOKETrY. 399 


To drels Champignions in fricafe, or Muftrooms, which ry 
all one thing ; they are called alfo Fungi, commonly in 
 Englith Toad Stools. 


Dre{s vour Champignions,as in the foregoing Chap- — 


ter,and being ftewed put away the liquor,put them into 
a frying-pan with a piece of of butter,fome tyme, {weet 


marjorari,and a piece of an onion minced all together . 


very fine, with a little falt alfo and beaten pepper, and 


fry them, and being finely fried, make a lear or fauce 


with three or four eggs cifflolved with fome claret- 

wine, and the juyce of two or three oranges,grated nut- 

meg, aad the gravy of a leg of mutton, and {hake them 

together in a pan with two or three tofles, difh them, 

and garnifh the difh with orange and lemon,and rub the 
difh firft with a clove of garlick, or none. 


To broil Mufbrooms. | , 
Take the biggeft and the reddeft, peel them,and fea- 


fonthem with fome fiveet herbs,pepper, and falt, broil — 


them ona dripping-pan of paper,and fall it ful!,put fome 
oylinto it,and lay itona gridiron, boil it ona foft fire, 
turn them often, and ferve them with oy! and vinegar. 
~ Or broil them with butter and ferve them with bea- 
ten butter, and juyce of orange. 


To ftew Cockles being taken out of the (bells. 

Wath them well with vinegar,broil or broth them 
before you take them out of the fhells,then put them in 
a difh with alittle claret, vinegar, ahandful of capers, 
mace,pepper,a littlegrated bread,minced tyme,falt,and 
the yolks of two or three hard eggs minced, ftew all to- 
gether till you think them enough ; then put in a good 
piece of butter, fhake them well together,heat the he: 

| rub- 





*& 





: To ftew Cockles otherways. . Th 

Stew them with claret wine,capers,rofe or elder vi- 
negar, wine vinegar, largemace, grofs pepper, grated 
bread,minced tyme, the yolks of hard eggs minced,and 
butter: ftew them well together. Thus you may ftew 


 {collops, but leave out capers. > 


To ftew Scollops. | / 

Boil them very well in white wine, fair water, and 
falt, take them out of the fhells, and ftew them with. 
fome of the liquor elder vinegar, two or three cloves, 
fome large mace,and fome fweet herbs chopped {mal] ; 
being well ftewed together,difh four or five of them in 
{collop fhells and beaten butter, with the juyce of two 
or three oranges. wit 


* To ftew Mufcles. », ieee | 
Wath them clean, and boil them in water’, of beer 

and falr; then take them out of the fhells, and beard 
them from gravel and ftones, fry them in clarified but- _ 
ter, and being fryed put away fome of the butter, and 
put to them a fauce made of fome of their own liquor, 
fome {weet herbs chopped, a little white-wine,nutmeg, 
three or four yolks of eggs diflolved in wine vinegar, 
faltand fome {liced orange;give thefe materialsa warm 
or two in thefrying-pan, make the fauce pretty thick, 


and difh them in the {Collop thells. 


Ti 






The Art and Myftery of Cookery. 
: 7 iy 1 ot Pins) ik Se eas iP eae a 









| ae To fry Mufcles. eth ity se: apa 
_, Take as much water ar will cover them,fet it a boil- 
ing, and when it boils put in the mufcles, being clean 
wathed, put fome falcto them, and being boil’d take 
them out ofthe fhells, and beard them from the ftones, 
mo{s,and pravel,wafh them in warm water, wipe them 
dry, flour them and fry them crifp, ferve them with 
beaten butter,juyce of orange,and fryed parfley,or fryed 
fage dipped in batter, fryed ellickfander leaves, and 


slic’t orange. have ch 
To make a Mufele Pye. on iy 

_ Take a peck of mufcles, wath them clean; and fet 
them a boiling in a kertle of fair water,(but firft let the 
_water boil) then put them into it, give them a warm, 
and as foon as they are opened, take them out of the 
fhells; ftone them, and mince them with fome fweet 
herbs,fome leeks, pepper, andnutmeg ; mince fix hard 
eggs and put to them,put fome butter in the pye,clofe ir 
up and bake it,being baked liquor it with fome butter, 
white wine, and slices oforangé. 5 | _. 

_ To few Pramns,Shrimps,or Graw-Fifh, 

Being boil’d and picked; ftew them in white wine, 
{weet butter; nutmeg, and fal, difh them in {collop 
fhells,and runthem over with beaten butter; and juyce 
oforangeorlemoni. ..... . es Se 
_ Otherways, ftew them in butter and cream,and ferve 
them in fcollop fhells: 

Bt ea PO OUTS aes a 
_, Takeclaret-wine vinegat, nutmeg; falt, and butter, 
ftew thém down fome what dry, and difh them in a 
{eollop-fhell, run them over with butter and slic’t le- 


mon. | Be 
Eé Other- 


401. 











402 The Accomplifht Ce € 
Otherways, cut itinto dice-work, and warm it with 
white-wine and butter, put itina pipkin with claret 
wine or grape verjuyce, and grated manchet,and fill the 
{collop-thells. | i 

‘f Otherways. 


Being boil’d, take out the meat, break it fmall, but 
break the fhellsas little as youcan, then put the meat 
into a pipkin with claret-wine, wine-vinegar, flict nut- 
meg,a little falt, andfome butter; ftew all thefe toge- 
ther foftly an hour,being ftewed almoft dry, put to it a 
little more butter, and ftir it well together; then lay 
very thin toafts ina clean dith,and lay the meat on them. 
Or you may put the meat in the fhells, and garnifh the 
difh about with the legs, and lay the body or barrel o- 
ver the meat with fome fliced lemon,and rare coloured 
flowers being in fummer,. or pickled in winter. Crabs 
are good the fame way, only add to them the juyce of 
two or three oranges,a little pepper, and grated bread. 


Yo few Lobfters otherwayna. So 

Take the meat out-of the thells, fliceit, and fry it in 
clarified butter, (the Lobfters being firft boil’d and 
cold) then put the meat in a pipkin with fome clarere 
wine, {ome good fweet butter, grated nutmeg, falt,and 
2 or three flicesof an orange; letit ftew leifurely half 
an hour, afid difh it upon fine carved fippets inva clean 
difh, with fliced orange on it,and the juyce‘of another, 
and runit over with beaten butter. | 


To hath Lobfters 8 

-Take them out of thefhells,mince them finall,and put 
them ina pipkin with fome claret wine,falt,fweet but- 
ter,grated nutmeg,flic't oranges,& fome piftaches;being 


finely 








pe 


hes Gare 


WE ie He e 
_ Lhe Art and of 

finely ftewed, ferve them on fippets; difh them) and 
run them over withbeaten butter, flic’t oranges, fome 
cuts of patte, or lozenges of puff-paite. 


aa 


Vv 


= 
ry 














fyftery of Cookery. 


To boil Lobfters to eat cold the common wayp> 

- Take them alive or dead, lay them in cold waterto 
make the claws tuff,and keep them from breakingioff; 
then have a kettle over the: fire with fair water, Spur 
initas much bay-falt, as will make it a good ttrong 
brine, when it boils {cum it, and put in the Lobfters, 
let them boil leifurely the {pace of half an hour or more 
according to the bignefs of them,being well boil’dtake 
them up, wafh them, and then wipe them wich’ beer 
and butter; andkeep them for your ufey oi) 100 


To keep Lobjters a quarter of a year very oval 2 j03 
~ ‘Take them being boil’d as aforefaid, wrap them in 
courfe rags having been {teeped in brine, and bury 


themin acellar infome fea-fand pretty deepic 29 ee 


. | Tofarce a Lobftérs |. 200-0 iapar. 
Take a lobfter being halfboil’d, take the meat out 
ofthe fhells, and mince it {mall with a good frefh eel, 
feafon it with cloves & mace beaten,fome {weet herbs 
minced fmall and mingled among(ft the meat, yolksiof 
eggs, goofeberries,grapes, or barberrigs,and fometimes 
boil’d artichocks cut into dice-w ork,omboil’d afpragus, 
-and fome almond-pafte mingled with the reft, fill the 
lobfter fhells,claws,tail;and body ,and bakeit ina blote 
oven, make fauce with the gravy and whitewine, and 
‘beat up the fauce or lear with good {weet butter;a 
‘grated nutmeg, juyce of oranges,and an anchove,and rub 
‘the difh with a clove of garlick. ei 
_ Tothis farcing you ae fometime add almond pafte 
ez cur 


con 


a) SEE Dae Ue 2 Spas ean 





Or, 


404 The Accompliftt COOK: | 
urrans,fuigar, goofeberries, and make balls to lay about 


C 
the lobfters, or ferve it with venifon fauce. 
To marinate Lobfters. 4 
Take lobfters out of the fhells being halfboil’d, then 
~ takethe tailsand lard them with a {alt eel, (or not lard 
them) part the tails into two halves the fongeft way; 
and fry them in fweet fallet oyl,or. clarified butter; be- 
ing-finely fryed, put them into a difh or pipkin, and fet 
them by: ; then make fauce with white wine,and white 
-wine vinegar,four or five blades of large mace,three or 
four flic’t nutmegs,two racesof ginger {lic’t,fome tenor 
twelve cloves twice as much of whole pepper,and falt, 
boil them altogether with rofemary,tyme,winter-favo, 
ry,fweet marjoram, bay-leaves, fage, and parfley, the 
tops of. all thefe herbs about an inch long; then take 
three or four lemons and flice them, difh up the lob- 
fters ona clean difh, and pour the broth, herbs and 
-fpiceson the fifth, lay on the lemons, run it over with 
fome of the oy] or butter they were fryed in, and ferve 


them up hot. 
evry Rate A To troil Lobfters. | 
Being boil’d lay them ona gridiron, or toaft them a- 
-gainft the fire, and bafte them with vinegar and butter 
-or butter only, broil them leifurely, and being broil'd 
-ferve them with butter and vinegar beat up thick with 
flict lemon am@ nutmeg. | 


Siig _ Othermays. 

Broil them, the tail being parted in two halves long 
ways,alfo the claws cracked and broil’d,broil the barrel 
whole being falted, bafte it with fweet herbs, as tyme, 
rofemary, pafley, and favory, being broil’d dith it, and 
ferve it with butter and vinegar. / E 

| 6 





bit ¢ me or ; ’ MP aA a desunt Me aret EUR so 


saat eure, 8 ee wa iy iat 
‘The Ar and Myftery of 


t Cookery. 405 





To broil Lobfters on paper. PRG 
Slice the tails round, and alfo the claws in long flices, 
then butter a dripping-pan made of the paper, lay it on 
a gridiron, and put fome flices of lobfter feafoned with 
nutmeg and falt,and flices of a fréfh eel,fome fageleaves 
topsof rofemary, two or three cloves, and fometimes 
fome bay-leaves or fweet herbs chopped; broil them | 
onthe embers, and being finely broil’d ferve them on 
a difh and a plate in the fame dripping-pan,put to.them 

beaten butter, juyce of oranges, and {lices of lemon. 


Tovoaft Lobfters. 


Take a lobfter and {pit it raw ona {mall fpit, bind 
the clawsand tail with packthred, bafte it with butter, 
vinegar,and f{prigs of rofemary,and falt it in the roafting. 


Otherways. Oe 

Half boil them,take them out of the thells, and lard 
them with fmall lard made of a falt eel, lard the claws 
and tails, and {pic the meat on a {mall {pit, with fome 
flices of the eel, and fage or bay leaves between, ftick 
in the fifh here and there a clove or two,and fome f{prigs 
of rofemary ; roaft the barrel of the lobfters whole,and 
bafte them with fweet butter, make fauce with claret / 
wine,the gravy of the lobfters, juyce fhe an an-- 
chove or two, and {weet butter beat up thick with the 
core of a lemon, and grated nutmeg. 


Otherways. 

Half boil them,and take the meat out of the tail, and 
claws as whole as can be,& ftick it with cloves and tops 
of rofemary;then {pit the barrels of the lobfters by them 
We Ro felves, 















ed a Se ¢ W 
A CCO pf & .) eee 
3 tat | cit 


felves, the tails a 's, and between 
them a {age or bay-leafsbafte them with {weet butter, 
andidredg them with grated bread, yolks of eggs, and 
fome,-grated nutmeg, Then make fauce with claret 
wine,vinegar,pepper, the gravy of the meat,fome falt, 
flices.of oranges, grated nutmeg, and fome beaten but- 
ter; then difh the barrels of the lobfters round the difh, 
the clawsand tails in tliemiddle,and put to it the fauce, 


nd claws by themfelve 











2 Aataten _ Otherways, j 
~ Make a farcing in the barrels of the lobfters with 
the meat in them, fome almond-pafte, nutmeg, tyme, 
{weet marjoram, yolks of raw eggs, falt,and fome pifta- 
ches, and fervethem with venifon fauce. | 


Tofry Lobfters. 

Being boil’d take the meat out of the thells,and flice 
it long ways,flour it, and fry it in clarified butter, fine, 
white,and crifp;or in place of flouring it in batter,with 
eggs, flour,falt,and cream,roul them 1n it and fry them, 
being fryed make a fauce withthe juyce of oranges,cla- 
ret wine,and grated nutmeg,beaten up thick with fome 
good {weet butter,then warm the difh and rub it with 
a clove of garlick,difh the lobfters,garnifh it with fliges 


of oranges or lemons, and pour on the fauce. 
‘-Tobake Lobfters to be eaten hot. 


Being boil’d and cold,take the meat out of the fhells, 
and feafon it lightly with nutmeg,pepper,falt, cinamon, 
and ginger; then lay it in apye made according to the 
following form,and lay on it fome dates in halves,large 
mace, dlic’c lemons, barberries, yolks of hard e888 anc 

EES | OES Aes DEEN ; ear 38 








‘The Art and Myftery of Cookery. 407° 


butte: ,clofe it up and bake it,and being baked liquor ic 
with white-wine, butter, and fugar,and ice it. On flefh 
days put marrow to it. eostgs 





Bee ta eS Otherways. ela 
Take the meat out of the fhells being boil’d and cold, 
and lard it with a fale eel or fale falmon, feafoning it 
with beaten nutmeg, pepper, and falt ; then make the. 
pye, put fome butter in the bottom, and lay on ic fome 
slices of a frefh eel, and on that a layer of lobfters, put 
to it afew whole cloves, and thus make two or three 
layers, laft of allslices of frefheel, fome whole cloves 
and butter,clofe up the pye, and being baked, fill ic up 
wich clarified butter. ; peer: 
Jf you bake it thefe ways to eat hot, feafon it lightly, 








and put in fome large mace ; liquor it withclaret wine, 


beaten butter, and slices of orange. 


ae ay Se ns 





Bee es Otherways. & os aS 
Take four lobfters being boil’d, and fome good fat © 


conger raw, cut fome ofit into {quare pieces asbroad 
as your hand, then take the meat of the lobfters, and 
eee ee BCA De Basle 





. 


48 Lhe Accomplifht COOK ; Or, 





2 0 ae eames 


flice the tails in two halves or two pieces long wayes, as 
alfo the claws, feafon both with pepper,nutmeg and {a!; 
then make the pie,put butter in the bottom,lay on the 


_ Slices, of conger, and then a layer of lobfters ; thus do 


eeor four times till the pie be full,then lay on a few 


. .-whole cloves,and fome butter ; clofé it up and baker, 


being baked liquor ic with butter and white-wine, or 


* only clarified butter.Make your pyes according to thefe 
sgemgeorms, gt eae er. ps 
2 ae If to eat hot feafon it lightly,and being baked liquor 

-. _. 4t with butter, white-wine, slic'tlemon, goofeberries, 
“e-) ~ grapes, or barberries. Mae | aetes 

Bee Pip ET To pickle Lobfters, pee 
“= **. Boil them in vinegar, white-wine,and falt,being boil- 
a ed take them up and lay them by, then have fome bay- 


ets 
ene oY 


my 


and whole pepper : boil thefe forefaid materials all to- 


: = gether in the liquor wich the lobfters, and fome whole 
< +” -<¢loves; being boil’d,barrel them up in a veffel chat will 


ut juft contain them, and pack them clofe, pour the li- 


- *guor to them,herbs fpices, and fome lemon peels, clofe 
cup the head ofthe kegg or firkin, and keep them for 


Med ees when you ferve them, ferve them with fpices, 


|, gills, and cut out all the gills, ic will bo 


See eS T 0 jelly Lobpers, Craw fit, or Prawns.. ne 


_ .s- “Fake a tench being new draw out the garnifh at the 


il the whiter, 
| gee he 






ees hee 

Het AY 
. an « 

gomod Suit at + 


iy 
War ’ 
- 


* L ‘ Vie Su Te er Co 
chee: as rere ; barb )} +3 T Loi 
' } 5 . Fi Wii a iw a 
Ds wh ; : be we eee t v pet 
¢ i. “ 
. ‘ ss 


3 , . 
Loe Oe yy ther) + F awd 
Es 43) : he are: 
; - 
& ¥ 
a 
re ~*~ 
y ‘; 
‘he © | 
Ph ik * - ‘ 
aa 
fi 
’ 
; 
i 
wv 
‘ 
’ *y 
: 
Zz 














then fet on as much clear water aswil conveniently boil 
‘it,feafon it with falt,wine-vinegar,five or fix bay-leaves 
Targe mace, three or four whole cloves, and a faggot of | 
{weet herbs bound up hard together:fo foonas this pre- 
Jatative boils, put in the tench being clean wiped, do 
{cale it, being boil’d take it up and wath off all the 
tales, ‘then {train the liquor through a jelly-bag, 
to ita piece of ifing-glafs being firit wafhed and 
ed for the purpofe, boilit very cleanly, and run it 
gh a jelly-bag;thén having the fifh taken out of the 
ay themin a large clean difh, lay the lobfters in 
ad the craw fifh and prawns whole, and run this 













urs, as you may feeinthe Section of Jellies,page 202. 
~ Garnifh the dith of Jellies with lemon-peels cut in 
branches, long slices as you fancy, barberries, and fine 
coloured’ffowers. | 

Or lard the lobfters with falt eel,or ftick it with can- 
died oranges, greencitterns, or preferved barberries, 
and make thejelly fweet. = 9° ° °° 3 


To flew Grabs. 












Being boil'd take the meat out of the bodies or bar- 
rels,and fave the great claws , and the {mall legs whole 
to garnifh the difh, ftrain the meat with fome claret © 

he,grated bread, wine-vinegar, nutmeg, a litle fale, 
piece of butter; ftew them together au hour on a 
re in a pipkin,and being {tewed almoft dry, put in 
e beaten butter with juyce of oranges beaten up 
; then difh the fhells being wafhed and finely 
an{ed,the claws and little legs round about them,put 
the meat into the fhells, and fo ferve them. 


Some- 


sant: L dks, Fabia pepe ge oie 
xe B pure Hod Ae ¥ me a 3 
; ee ; 

, p f sy Je 
‘The Art and Myfte ookery. 409 
e x x x a oh i 


rer them. You may make this jelly of diverscol- — — 










44 7 i f 





Sometimes you m 


: ks of eggs ftrained with 
butter. - yistey ditenie tt ool 


y ule yo 


To ftew Crabs otherways. =, 


. Sires a 
a bat take the meat out of the fhells,and put ic 
in a pipkin with fome claret wine, and wine vinegar, 
minced tyme,pepper,grated bread,falt,the yolks of two 
_or three hard eggs ftrained or minced very finall,fome 
{weet butter,capers,and fome large mace s ftew it fine- 


ly,rub the fhells with a cloveor two of garlick, and 
difh them as is fhown before. er ot Degas 
- Othermays. as 


Take the meat out of the bodies, and put it ina pip- 
kin with fome cinamon, wine vinegar, butter,and bea- 
ten ginger, ftew them and ferve them as the former, 
difhed with the legsabout them. = s,s 

Sometimes you may add. fugar to. them, parboil’d 
grapes,2oofeberries, or barberries, and in place of vine- 
gar, juyceof oranges, and run them over with beaten 


butter. ~ : 
To butter Grabs. 


The Crabs being boil'd, take the meat out of the 
bodies,and ftrain it withthe yolks of three or four hard 
egas,beaten cinamon,fugar,claret-wine, and wine-vine- 
gar, {tew the meat in a pipkin with fome good {weet 
bucter the fpace. ofa quarter of an hour,and ferve them 
as the former. mee 


| 
| 


Otherways. | Bias 
Being boil'd,take the meat out of the fhells,as alfo out 
of the great claws,cut it into dice-work,& put both the 
Ati | | meats » 


a , 






f 4h 
3 in x 4 j 





‘méats into a pipkin, together with fome white wine, 


‘uyce of oranges,nutmeg,and fome flices of oranges, {tew 
it two or three warms on the fire, and the fhells being 
finely cleanfed and dried, put the meat into them, and 
lay the legs round about them in a clean difh. _ 


To make a Hafh of Grabs, 


Take two crabs being boil’d, take out the meat of 
the claws, and cut it into dice:work, mix it with the 


meat of the body, then have fome pine-apple feed, and 


fome piftaches or artichock-bottoms, boil’d, blanched, 
and cut into dice-work,or fome afparagus boil’d and cut 
half an inch long; ftew all thefe together with fome 
claret wine, vinegar, grated nutmeg, falt, {weet butter, 
and the flices ofan orange ; being finely ftewed, dith it 
on fippets, cuts, or lozenges of puff pafte, and garnifh it 
with fritters of arms, flic’t lemon carved, barberries, 
grapes,or goofeberries,and run it over with beaten but- 
ter, and yolks of eggs beaten up thick together. 


To farce a Grab. 


‘Take a boil'd crab,take the meat out of the fhell,and 
mince the claws witha good frefh eel, feafon it with 
cloves,mace,fome fweet herbs chopped,and falt,mingle 
all together with fome yolks of eggs, fome grapes, 
goofeberries, or barberres, and fometimes boild 
artichocks in dice-work, or boil’dafparagus, fome al- 
mond-pafte,the meat of the body of the crab, and fome 
grated bread,fill the fhells with this compound,&cmake 
{ome into balls, bake them ina difh with fome butter 
and white wine in.a foft oven ; being baked,ferve them 
in a clean difh with a fauce made of beaten butter,large 
| mace, 








rt 















412 The Accomplifbt COOK: C 4 
Cee ie SERS cp | 

, goofeberries, or barberries, or 

t orange or lemon and fome yolks of raw eggs 
diffolved with fome white-wine or claret, and beat up 
thick with butter; brew it well together;pour it on the 
fith, and lay on fome flic’t lemon, ftick the balls with 
{ome piftaches, flic’t almonds, pine-appie-feed, or fome 
pretty cuts in pafte. | | 


Io broil Grabs 12 Oyl or Butter. 

Take Crabs being boil’d in water and falt,fteep thenr 
‘in oyl and vinegar, and broil them on a gridiron on a 
foft fire of embers,in the broiling bafte them with fome 
rofemmary branches, and being broil’d ferve them with 
the fauces they were boil’d with, oyl and vinegar, or 
beaten butter,vinegar, and the rofemary branches they 

were bafted with. — eS Geis 





To fry Grabs. . 

‘Take the meat out of the great claws being firft boil- 
ed,flour and fry them,and take the meat out of the bo- 
dy ftrain halfofit for fauce, andthe other half to fry, 
and mix it with grated bread, almond pafte, nutmeg, 
falt, and yolks of eggs, fry itin cans butter, being 
firft dipped in batter, put in a fpoonful at a time; then 
make fauce with wine-vinegar, butter, or juyce of o- 
range,and grated nutmeg,beat up the butter thick, and 
put fome of the meat that was {trained into the fauce, 
warm itand putitina clean difh, lay the meat onthe 
fance, flices of orange over all, and run it over with 
beaten butter, fryed parfley, round the difh brim, and 
the lictlelegsroundthe meat = Ht 

tee ~~ Otherways. 

Being boil’d and cold,take the meat out of the claws, 
flour and fry them,then take the meat out of the bay, 





The Art and Myftery of Cookery. 413 
butter it with butter vinegar, and pepper,and put it ina 
clean difh,put the fryed crab round about it, andrun it 


over with beaten butter, juyce and flices of orange, and 
— lay onit fage leaves fryed in batter, or fryed parfley. 


To bake Grabs in Pye, Dith, or Patty pan, 








Take four or five crabs being boil’d, take the meat 
~ out of the fhell and claws as whole as you can,feafon it 
with nutmeg and fale lightly ; then ftrain the meat that 
came out of the body, fhells, with a little clazet-wine, 


eh OO ik ee ee Ree 
Gate vy aiLyy eae a 
‘f ae 


fome cinamon,ginger,juyce of orange and butter, make 


the pie, difh,or patty pan,lay butter in the bottom,then 
the meat of theclaws, fome piftaches, afparagus, fome 
bottoms.6f artichocks, yolks of hard eggs, large mace, 
grapes;goofeberries or barberries, dates of flic’t orange, 
and butter, clofeit up and bake it, being baked, liquor 
it with the meat out of the body. 


Otherways. 


Mince them with a tench or frefh eel, and feafon ic 
~ with fweet herbs minced {mall, beaten nutmeg, pepper, 
‘and falc; lightly feafon, and mingle the meat that was 
in the bodies of the crabs with the other feafoned fifhes; 
mingle alfo with this forefaid meat fome boil’d or roaft- 


ed chefnuts, or artichocks, afparagus boil’d and cut an. 


inch long, piftaches, or pine-apple-feed, and grapes, _ 


goofeberries or barberries,fill the pie,difh,or patty-pan, 
clofe it up and bake it,being baked, liquor it withjuyce 
of oranges,fome claret wine,good butter beat up thick, 
and the yolks of two or three eggs ; fill up the pie, lay 
flicesof an orange onicand ftick in fome lozenges of 
puff- pafte, or branches of fhort patte. : 

g 





Wis RC 4 t “ itt 
* : i: 


‘To make minced Pies of aGrabs 





Being boil’d,mince the legs,and ftrain the meat in the 
‘body with two or three yolks of éggs, mince alfo fome 
~ {weet herbs and put to it fome almond-pafte or grated 

bread,a minced onion, fome fat eel cut like little dicé,or 

‘fome fat belly of falmon; mingle it all together,and put 
If in a pié made according to this form, feafon it with 
nutineg,pepper, falt, currans, and barberries, grapes, or 
goofeberries,mingle alfo fome butter, and fill your pie, 
bake it, and being baked, liquor it with beaten butter 
and whire wine. Or with butter, fugar, cinamon, fweet 
herbs chopped,and verjuyce. nin gy vats 


To dvefs Tortoife. 


Caft off the head, feet, and tail, and boil it in water, 


Wine,and falt,being boil’d,pull the fhell afunder,and pick 
the meat fromthe skins, and the gall from the liver, 
fave the eggswhole if a female,and ftew the eggs,meéat 
and liver in a difh with fome grated nutmeg, a little 
fweet herbs minced fimall,and fome fweet butter,ftew 
it up, and ferve it on fine fippets, cover the meat with 
the upper fhell of ‘the tortoife, and flices or juyce of 

orange. ae ‘ a 
Or ftew them ina pipkin with fome butter, whitewine 
-fome of the broth,a whole onion or two,tyme, parfley, 
Winter favory,and rofemary minct,being finely ftewed 
ferve them on fippets, or put them in the fhells, being 
cleanfed;or makea fricafe in a frying-pan with 3 or ae 
or yolks 


hs 


| 










~The Art and ookery. 415 


ails bf evovand neo thie the! 
drefs them as aforefaid. kg 


To dyefs en 


lsamongft them, an 


Take thell fnails,and having water boil’d, put them © 


in,then pick them out of the {hells wirh a great pin into 
-abafon, caft falt to them, {cour the {lime from them, 
and after wafh them in two or three waters; being 
clean {cowred,dry them with a clean cloth ; then have 
rofemary,tyme,parfley, winter-favory,and pepper very 
fmall, put them into a deep bafon or pipkin,. put to 
them fome falt,and good fallet oy], mingle all rogether, 


then have the fhells finely cleanfed, ft! them, and fet — 


them on a gridiron, broil them upon the embers foftly, 
and being broi!’d, difh four or five dozen in a difh, fill 
them up with oyl, and ferve them hot. 


To few Snails, 


_. Being well {cowred and cleanfed as aforefaid, put to 
them fome claret wine and vinegar,a handful of capers, 

mace,pepper,grated bread,a litrle minced tyme, falt,and 
the yolks of two or 3 hard eggs minced; let all thefe 
ftew together till you think it be enough, then put in 


a good piece of butter,fhaking it together, heat the dith, 


and rub it with aclove of garlick, put them on fine fip- 
pets of French bread, pour on the inails, and fome bar- 
berries, or slic’t lemons. 


Orherways. 


Being cleanied fry them in oy] or clarified butter,with 


fome slices ofa fretheel,and fome fried {age saaayenee 


. 












them ina pipkin with fome white-wine,butter,and pep- 
per,and ferve them on fippets with beaten butter, and 
yuyce of oranges. . | 


| Otherways. | i aie 

Being finely boil’d and cleanfed,fry them in clarified 
butter 5 being fryed take them up, and put them in a 
pipkin,put to them fome {weet butter chopped pariley, 
white or claret wine, fome grated nutmeg, {lices of o- 


 range,and.a litele fale ; {tew them well together, ferve 


them on fippets, and then run them over with beaten 
butter, and flices of oranges. ha cire eee 


— Tofry Snails. 4/9 poise aa 
. Take thell {nails in Jaxuary,February,or,March,when 
they beclofed up, boil themin a skillet of boiling wa- 


ter, and when they be tender boil'd, take them out of 


the {hell with a pin, cleanfe them from the flime, flour 
them,and fry them ; being fryed, ferve them ina clean 
dith,with butter,vinegar,fryed parsley, fryed onions, or 
ellickfander leaves fryed,or ferved with beaten butter, 
and juyce of orange, or oy], vinegar, and slic’t lemom 


Orherways:. 


Fry them inoyland butter being finely cleanfed,and 
ferve them with butter,vinegar, and pepper,or oyl, vis 
negar, and pepper. | ol We 2h 


To make a Hath of Svails, 


_ Being boi!’d and cleanfed,mince them {mall, put thent 

ina pipkin with fome {weet herbs miriced,the yolks of 

hard eggs,fome whole capers,nutmeg,pepper, fale, fons 
| pilte: 









piftaches, and butter, or oyl; being ftewed the {pace 
of halfan hour on a fott fire; then have fome fried 
toafts of French bread,lay fome in the bottom,and fome 
round the meae in the difh. Be ee 


To drefs Snails in a Pottage. 


Wath them very well in many waters, then put 
them in an earthen pan,or a wide difh, put as much wa- 
ter as will cover’ them,and fet you: dith on fome caolss 
when they boil take them out of the thells, and fcowr 

them with water and falt three or four times, then put 
them in a pipkin wich water and fale, and let them boil 
alittle, then take them out of the water,and put. them 
in a difh with fome excellent fallet oy] ; when the oy] 
boils put in ‘three or four flic’t onions,and fry them,put 
the fnails to them,and ‘ftew ther well together.then put 
the oy! fnails and onions al! together in a pipkin of afic 
fize for them; and put as much warm water to them as 
will make a pottage, with fome {falt, and {fo let them 
ftew three or four hours, then mince tyme,parfley,pen- 
nyroyal,and the like herbs; when they are minced,beat. 
them to green fauce in a mortar,put in iome crumbs of 
bread foakt with that broth or pottage,fome faffron and 
beaten cloves ; put all in to the {nails, and give them 2 
warm or 2,and when you ferve them up, {queeze m the. 
juyce of a lemon,put in a little vinegar, anda clove of. 
garlick amongft the herbs, and beat them in it ferve 
them up in a difh with fippetsin the bottom of it. . 

This pottage is very nourifhing, and excellent good 
again{t a Confumption. 


Ff eagige 


i” : , ey NOM ee RG =. Pema Tigo) 






To bake Snails, 9 

Being boil’dand {cowred, feafon them with nutmeg, 
pepper,and falt,put them intoa pie with fome marrow, 
large mace,a raw chicken cut in pieces, fome little bits 
of lard and bacon,the bones out, {weet herbs chopped, 
flic’t lemon, or orange and butter ; being full,clofe it up 
and bake it, and liquor it with butter and white-wine: 

Being flayed, take the hind legs, cut off the feet, and 
feafon them with nutmeg,pepper,and falt,put them in a 
pye with fome {weet herbs chopped {mall, large mace, 
slic’t lemon, gooleberries, grapes, or barberries, pieces 
of skirrets,artichocks, potatoes, Or parinips, and mar- 
row; clofe it upand bake it;being baked, liquor it with 
butter, andjuyce of orange, or grape-verjuyce. 


¢ 


ree Sats 








_ The Art and Myftery of Cookery. 41g 


Seion xX; 





French Barley Pottage; 


( NLeanle tlie barley from duft, and put it in boiling : 
X/ milk, being boil’d down,put in large mace, cream, 
fugar,anda little fale, boil it pretty thick, then ferve it 
en 4 x He & g - ‘ se os e 22, | 
inadith, {crape fugar on it, and trim the dith fides, 
—.... Otherrays. Se Pesan in 
Boil it.m fair water,fcum it,and being almoft boil’d; 
put to.it {ome faffron, or difolved yolks of eggs. 


‘To make Gruel Potiage the bef way for fervice: — 

Pick your oatmeal,and boil it whole ona ftewing fire ; 
being tender boil'd,ftrain it through a ftrainer,then put 
it into a clean pipkin with fair boiling water, make ic 
pretty thick of the ftrainéd oatmeal, and put to it fome 
picked.taifins of the {un well wafhed,fome large mace, 
falt, anda little bundle of fweet herbs; witha little 
rofe-water and faffron; fet ita ftewing ona fire ofchar- _ 

coal; boil it with fugar..till the fruit be well allom’d, 
then put to it-butter and the yolks of three or four eggs 

rained; sano ly ti 

MRA ss. si bqHeM CHAS si: swell scat began FAT 
Good herbs aad oatmel chopped, put them into boil: . 
wis Fiz ing 






UL OOK: On ce 
ing liquor ina pipkin,pot,or skillet, with fome falt, an and 
being boil’d put to it butter. ie 


nd 


420 | The Aecomplir 


Oshiaiva bi ; 
With a Baits ‘of Sweet herbs and oatmeal chopped, 
fome onions and falt,feafoned as before with butter. 


To make Fipple 

Take wheat and wet it, then beat it in a fack with a 
wath beetle, being finely hulled and cleanfed from the 
duft and hulls, boil it over night, and let it foak ona 
foft fireall night; thennext morning take as much as 
will ferve the turn,putitin a pipkin,pan,or skillet, and 
put it a boiling in cream or milk,with mace,falt,whole 
 cinamon,and faftron, or yolks of eggs,boil it-thick and 

eae int it in a clean {cowred dith scrape on a febarsind trim 
the di 

To make Rice Pottage. mee 

~ Pick the rice and duft itclean, then wath itand boil 
it in water or milk; being boil’ddown, put to it fome 
cream, large mace,w ‘hole cinamon, falt, and fugar ; boil 
_ it ona foft ftewing fire, and ferve 1 it in a fair ais difh, 
or a ftanding filver piece. © 


Otherway s | 


Boil’d rice {trained with almond milk, and feafoned | 
as the former. alt | | 


- MilkPottage. 
Boil whole oatmel, being cleanly vicled B boil i it ina 
pipkin or pot, but frit let the water boil; being well 
boil’dand tender, put iamilk or cream, with falt, and 


freth butter, ee. | 
Ellich: 


atl 30 -aat aate PAE ke el or a 
fla sd 2 a a ie ale 


fa 





” 


Ellicksainder' Pottage: 


| Chop ellickfanders and oatmeal together,being pick- 


ed and wafhed,then fet on a pipkin with fair water,and 
when it boils, put in your-herbs,oatmeal, and {alt,boil 


it on a foft fire,and make it not too thick,being almoft 


boil’d put infome butter. - 


Peafe Pottage. 
__ Take green peafe being thelled and cleanfed, put 
them in a pipkin of fair boiling water; when they be 


boild and tender, take and ftrain fome of them, and: 
thicken the reft,put to them a bundle of {weet herbs,or: 
{weet herbs. chopped, fale, and butter ; being through. 


f Cookery. Me kote 


boil’d difh them, andferve them in a deep clean difh : 


with falt-and fippets about them. 
| Otherways., 


Put them into a pipkin or skillet of boiling milk or 
cream,put to them twoor three {prigs of mint,and falts 
being fine and tender boil’d, thick them witha litle 
milk and flour. 


Dry or old Peafe Pottage. 


Take the choiceft peafe, (that fome call feed way. 
peafe ) commonly they bea little worm eaten, (thofe 
are the beft boiling peafe) pick and wafhthem, and put 
them in boiling liquor in a pot or pipkin ; being tender 
boil’d take out fome of them,ftrain them, and fet them 
by for your ufe ; then feafon the reft with falt,a bundle 
of mint and butter, let them ftew leifurely, and put to 
them fome pepper. 2 | 


i: 3 : Strain- 





fhe Ae 


Strained Peafe Pottage. . 

Take the former {trained peafe-pottage, put to them 
falt,large mace,a bundle of fweet herbs,and fome pick- 
led capers; ftew them well together, then ferve them 
in a deep difh clean {Cowred, with thin flices of bread 
in the bottom, and grated manchet to garnith it. 


_ An excellent flewed Broth for Fifh-Day. 
Set a boiling fome fair water in a pipkin,then ftrain © 
fome oatmeal and-patto it, with large mace; whole ci- 
namon, falt, a bundle of fweet herbs, fomeftrained and 
whole prunes, and fome raifins of the fan 3 being well 
ftewed on a foft fire,and pretty thick,put infome claret- 
wine and fugar,ferve it in a clear fecowred deep: difh or 

{tanding piece, and fcrapeon fugar, | 


Onion Pottage. 

Fry good ftore of flic’t onions, then have a pipkin of 
boiling liquor over the fire, when the liquor boils put 
in the fryed onions, butter and all, with pepper and fale; 
being well ftewed together,ferve it on fops of French. 
breador pinemole. mare EY 


Almond Pottage. ; 

Take a pound ofalmond-pafte,and ftrain it with fome 
new milk;chen have.a pottle of cream boiling in a pip- 
kin or skillet,put in: the milk ; and almonds with fome 
mace,falt,and fugar ; ferve itin-a clean difh on fippets 
of French bread, and fcrapé on fugar, | 
SARISITTSE POG GETS 0 26) 9 el aiag Gas at ad | 

Strain them with fair water,and boil them with mace, 
falt,and {ugar,(or none) add'two or three yolks of eggs 
diffolved, or iaffron ; and ferve it as before. a 
Mee Beg e Cee er age Gage Oe 


Almond 
’ tx?" 6 WW 

















LOS... sees MLE A, a! Rail Sai 
The Art and Myftery of Cookery. 4.23 


ish Almond Caudle. ties 
Strain halfa pound of almonds being blanched and 
ftamped,ftrain them with a pint of good ale,chen boil it 
with flices of fine manchet,large mace,and {ugar ; being 
_almoft boil’d put in three or four {poonfuls of fack. 


Oatmeal Caudle. : 

Boil ale,fcum it,and putin ftrained oatmeal,mace,fu- 

-gar,and fliced bread,boil it well,and put in two or three 
{poonfuls of fack, white-wine or claret. 


* Egg Caudle. 

Boil ale cr beer, {cum it, and put to ittwo or three 
blades of large mace, fome fliced manchet and fugar ; 
thén diffolve four or five yolks of eggs with fome fack, 
claret or white-wine,and put it into the reft witha little 
grated nutmeg ; give ita warm,and ferve it. 


Sugar, or Honey Sops. ig 
Boil beer or ale,{cum it,and put toitflicesoffineman- | 
chet, large mace, fugar, or honey ; fometimes currans, 
and boil all well together. 


Rae To make an Alebury. 

Boil beer or ale,{cum it,and put in fome mace,and a 
bottom ofa manchet,boil it well,then put in fome fugar. 
uttered Beer. | 
Take beer or ale and boil it,then {cum it, and put to 

it fome liquorifh and annifeeds, boil them well toge- 
ther; then have in a clean flaggon or quart pot fome 
yolks of eggs well beaten with fome of the forefaid 
beer, and {ome good butter ; {train your butter’d beer, 
put it in the flaggon, and brew it with the butter and 


— &B8S 
ms Ff 4 | Bu 





Butiered Beer or Ale otherways, 9° 
-. ~ Boil beeror ale and fcum it, then have fix eggs, 


whites and all, and beat them in a flaggon or quart pot 


& 


with the fhells, fome butter, fugar, and nutmeg, put — 


them together, and being well brewed, drink it when 
you gotobed. os 40 ae: (ee 
oe gu Otherways. 


Take three pints of beer or ale, put five yolks of 


eggs to it, {train them together, and fet it ina pewter 
pot tothe fire, put to it half'a pound of fugar, a penn 


r, a - = 4 . 


an ounce of beaten ginger, and bread it. 


> 


* 


Ranados.c sii Ke 
Boil fair water in a skillet, put to it grated bread or 


cakes,good ftore of currans, mace,and whole cinamon: — 


being almoft boil’d and indifferent thick, putin fome 


1- 
worth of beaten nutmeg, as. much beaten cloves, half 


u 


; 
? 
‘ 


fack or white-wine,fugar, fome {trained yolks of eggs. — 


Otherways with flict bread, water,currans,and mace, 
and being well boil’d, put to it fome fugar, white-wine, 
and butter. | | i 


Yo make a Compound Poffet of Sack, Claret, White-Wine, 
"Ale, Beer, or Fuyce of Oranges, &c. | 


Take twenty yolks of eggs with a little cream,ftrain 
them,and fet them by;then have a clean {cowred skillet, 
and put into it a pottle of good fweet cream,and a good 
quantity of whole cinamon, fét' ita boilingona foft 
charcoal fire, and ftir it continually ; the cream having 
a good tafte of the cinamon, put in the ftrained eggs 
and.cream into your skillet,{tir them together,and give 
them a warm, then have fome {ack ina deep bafon 
or-poflet-pot, good ftore of fine fugar, and fome fliced 


ig eu @ 





Sie ee a FG are can) Cun ; 
The Art and Myftery of Cookery. A 


nutmeg; the fack and fugar being warm, take out the 
cinamon, and pour your eggs and cream very high in to 
“the bafon, that it may {patter in it, then ftrow on loaf 


fugar. 

; | To make a Pofet fimple. Se Sh 
Boil your milk in a clean fcowred skillet, and when 

it boils take it off, and warm in the pot, bow], or ba- 

fon fome fack, claret, beer,ale,or juyce of orange; pour 

irinto the drink, but let not your milk be too hot, for 

it will make the curd hard, then fugar it. 





Otherways. 


Beat a good quantit yof forrel, and ftrain it with any 
of the foretaid liquors,or fimply of it felf;then boil fome 
milk ina clean fcowred skillet,being boild, take it off 
and let it cool,then put it to your drink,but not too hot, 
for it will make the curd tuff. | 


Poffets of Herbs otherways. 


Take a fair {cowred skillet,put in fome milk into it, 
and fome rofemary, the rofemary being well boild in 
it, take it out and have fomeale or beer in a pot,put to 
it the milk and fugar, (or none.) | 

— Thus of tyme,carduus,cammomile,mint,or marigold 
flowers. ; 3 


To make Evench Puffs. 


Take f{pinage,tyme,parfley endive,favory and marjo- 
ram ,chop or mince them {mall ; then have twenty eggs 
beaten with the herbs,that the eggs may be green,fome 
nutmeg, ginger,cinamon, and {alt ; then cut a lemon in 
flices,and dip it in batter, fry ir, and put a’ {poonful on 
every {lice of lemon, fry it finely in clarified butter,and 
being fryed, {trow on fack, or claret, and fugar. 
Pe ee he . Soops. 









peat ns Soops or butter’d Meats of Spinage. 
Take fine young {pinage,pick and wath it clean; then 
have a skillet or pan of fair liquor on the fire,and when 
it boils, put in the {pinage, giveit a warm or two, and 
take it.outintoa cullender, let it drain, then. mince it 
fimall, and pucit in.a pipkin with fome flic’t dates, but- 
ter, white-wine, beaten cinamon, falt, fugar, and fome — 
-boul’d.currans; ftew them well together, and difh them 
on fippets finely. carved,and about it hard eggs in halves 
or quarters, not too hard boil’d, and {crape on fugar. 


‘hi ep 
oe 


— Soops of Garvots. pects 

Being boil’d, cleanfe,- ftamp, and feafon them inall 
points as before ; thusalfo potatoes, skirrets, parfnips, 
turnips, Virginia artichocks, onions,or beets,or fry any — 
of the forefaid roots being boil’d and cleanfed,or peeled, _ 
and floured, and ferve them with beaten butter and fu- 


gar, LAC % . 
Soops of Artichocks,Potatoes, Skerrets, or Parfuips. 


Being boil'd and cleanfed, put to them yolks of hard 
eggs, dates, mace, cinamon, butter, fugar,white-wine, 
falt, flict lemon, grapes goofeberries, or barberries; 
ftew them together whole, and being finely ftewed, 
ferve them on carved fippets in a clean {cowred difh,and 
run it over with beaten butter and {craped fugar. 

3 To butter Onions. , | 

Being peeled,put them into boiling liquor,and when 
they are boil’d, drain them in acullender, and butter 
them whole with fome boil’d currans,butter,fugar,and 
beaten cinamon, ferve them on fine fippets, fcrape on 
jugar, and run them over with beaten outter. 
on EE PASE Other 


oo Bi gl ica Mae aE 
~ ‘The Art and Myftery of Cookery. PC eae 





Otherwvays. - 

Take apples and onions, mince the onions and flice 

the apples,put them in a pot, but more apples, than oni- 

ons, atid bake them with houfhold bread, clofe up the 

pot with pafte or papers;when youufe them,butter them 

with butter,fugar,and boil’d currans,ferve them on fip- 
pets, and {crape on fugar and cinamon. . 


Buttered Sparagus. 

Take two hundred of {paragus,fcrape the roots clean 
and wath them, then take the heads of an hundred and 
lay them even,bind them hard up into a bundle, and fo 
likewife of the other hundred; then havea large skil- 
let of fair water, when it boils put them in, and boil 
them up quick with fome falt ; being boild drain them, 
and ferve them with beaten butter and falt about the 
difh, or butter and vinegar. 


Buttered Colliflowers. 

- Have askillet of fair water, and when it boils put 
in the whole tops of the colliflowers, the root being cut: 
away,put fome alt to it; and being fine and tender boil- 
ed difh it whole in adifh, withcarved fippets round a- 
boutit, and ferve it with beaten butter and water, or 
juyce of orange and lemon. 
Otherways. 

Put them into boiling milk,boil them tender,and put 
to them a little maceand falt ; being finely boil’d,ferve 
themon carved fippets, the yolk of an egg or two, 
{ome boil’d raifins of the fun, beaten butter, and fugar. 


To butter Quinces, | 
Roaft or boil them, then {train them with fugar an 
ue | ae ita, cina- 





_and ferve them on fine carved fippets. = 





einamon,put fome butter to them,warm them together, 


‘ 


To butter Rice. - 


_ Pick the rice and fift it,and when the liquor boils,put 
it in and {cum it,boil it not too much, then drain it,but- 
ter it, and ferve it on fine carved fippets, and fcraping 
fugar only, or fugar and cinamon. bs 
Butter wheat,and French barley, as you do rice, but 
hull your wheat and barley, wet the wheat and beat it 
in afack with a wath-beetle, fanit, and being clean 
hulled, boil it all night on a foft fire very tender.» 


To butter Gourds, Pumptons, Gucumbers or Mauskmelons. 


Cut them into pieces,and pare and cleanfe them;then 
have a boiling pan of water,and when it boils putin the 
pumpions, ec. with fome falt, being boil’d, drain them. 


well fromthe water, butter them, and ferve them on 


fippets with pepper. 
| ——— Otherways. | 
Bake them in anoven, and take out the feed at the 
top, fill them with onions,flic’t apples, butter, and falt, 
butter them, and ferve them on fippets. ; 
therways. | 
Fry them in flices,being cleans'd & peel’d,either flou- 
red or inbatter; being fried, ferve them with beaten 
butter,and vinegar,or beaten butter and juyce of orange, 
or butter beaten witha little water, and ferved in a 
clean dith with fryed parfley, ellikfanders, apples, flic’t 
onions fryed, or {weet herbs. 


To make buttered Loaves. ; 


Seafon 2 pottle of flour with cloves,mace;and pepper, 


halfa pound of {weet butter melted, and halfa et 
. ale- 


a dst ae hel eS as Mme ic 
Fhe Art and Myftery of Cookery. § 429 * 


ale-yeaft or barm mix’t with warm milk from the cow 
and three or aie eggs to temper all together, makeit | 
as foft as manchet pafte,and make it up into little man- 
chets 2s big as an egg, cut and prick them,and put them 
ona paper, bake them like manchet, with the oven 
open, they willask an hours baking; being baked mele 
in agreat difh a pound of fweet butter, and put rofe- 
Water ‘in it, draw your loaves, and pare away thecruft 
then {lic them in three toafts, and put them in melted 
butter, turn them over and over in the butter, then 
take a warm difh, and:put in the bottom pieces, and 
{trow on fugar in a good thicknefs, then put in the mid- 
dle pieces, and fugar them likewife, then fet on the 
the tops and fcrape on fugar, and ferve five or fixina 
difh. If you be not ready to fend them in, fet them in 
the oven again, and cover them with a paper to keep 





them from drying. 
To boil French Beans or Lupins. 


Firft take away the tops of the cods and the ftrings, 
then havea pan or skillet Of fair water boiling onthe 
fire,when it boils put them in with fome falt,-and-boil — 
them up quick; being boil’d ferve them; with beaten 
butter in a fair fcowred difh, and fale about it. 


To boil Garden Beans. 


Being fhelled and cleanfed, put thém into boiling li- 
quor with fome {alt,boil them up quick;and being boil- — 
ed drain away the liquor and butter them, difh them 
ina difh like acrofs, and ferve them with pepper and 
falt on the difh fide. 2) 

Thusalfo green peafe, haflers, broom-b 
kind of pulfe. ' 


4 


uds, or any 


Section 


~, 





ele XXL 


T. be exatteft Wi a ne the Drain 





To make Onlet bn Waysi Wea i 
The Fifi Way, | 


pret fixeight tor ten eggs 1 moré ot lef, beat shee 

together in adifh, and put falt to them 5. thenput 
fome butter a melting i in a frying pan, and fry it more 
or lefs, according to your difcretion, only on one fide 
or ‘bottom. - 

You may fometimes make it green with juyce of 
fpinage and forrel beat with the eggs, or ferve it with 
preenfauce, a little vinegart and {ugar boil’ sreReROSE 
and ferved up ona difh with theOmlet: 


» The Second Way: | 

Take twelve eggs, and put to them fome grated. 

white bread finely tearfed, parfley minced very fmall; 
fome fugar beaten, fine, and fryi it well on both hie 


Iw roi} bi ThirdWay: 

Fry toafts of manchet, and put the eggs to hen be: 
ing beaten and feafoned with falt,and. fome sities ; pour’ 
the butter and fryed parsley over alle oe 

| é 





The wtb Way 

Take three or four pippins, cut them in: sain ra 

ind fry chem with a quarter of a pound of butter;when 

the apples are fryed,pour on them fix.or feven eggs bea- 

ten witha litrle fale, and being finely fryed, difh it it on 
2 ge dith, or difh, and ftrow on ee 


The Fifth Way. y. 18d 

“Mix with the: eggs pine-kernels, currans, and pietes 

of preferved lemons, being fried, roul it up likea pud- 

ding, and fprinkle ic with rofe-w ater, cinamon water, 
and {trow on fine lugar. | 


rN) The Sixth Way, 
Beat the eges, and put to them a. little. cream, a Little 
grated bread, a little preferved lemon-peel. minced or 
grated Very finall, and ufe it as the Beha 


I he Seuenil Way. ! | 
: “Take a quarter of a pound of soeck bade bacon, take 
it from the rinde,cut it into dice-work, fry it, and being, 
fried, put in fome feven or eight beaten eggs with fome _ 
falt,fry sige ferve them with {ome grape-verjuyce, 


> The Ezghth Way. 

“With minced: bacon among the eggs fried and bea- 
ten togecher, or with jthin flices of interlarded bacon, 
ay fryed flices of bread. 

The Ninth way. 


Made with eggs and a little cream. 


The Tenth Way. 
- Mince herbs fnall,as lettice, buglofs, or bree 









L DOK: . Or,5 a 
rel,and rad eNPRSE put curransto them: aie Pa outer, nutmeg, 
beat all thefe amongft the herbs, and fry them with 
{weet butter, ‘and ferve it with cinatnon and’ fugar, or 
fried Sagi only 3 put the eggs to it in the pane Ke 


i ars The Eleventh Way. “ate Fe | 3 


Mince ace Pastley very {mall being thore and ge 4 
picked, beat it amongft the eggs, and fry it. Or fry the 
parfley bain ak cut, beat theeggs, and pour it it on 








: The Twelfth Way, 
“Mince 1a very finall, beat them with the cas and ; 
fome falt, and fry them. anced ieee 
The Thirteenth Way, Aes Oa. 


_ Take endive that is very white, cutit grofly, fy it 
with nutmeg,and put the eggs to itot Boil it ape ix 
ed, and ferve i it with fugars>\777 Sait Se eas 1p" 


~The Fourteenth Pe aaa 


Slice cheefe very thin,beat it with the pie. a lit. : 
a falt, then melt fome butter i in'the Pan; and fry it ice 


The Fifteenth Wie in, 


Take fix or eight eggs; beat them with falt, ane 
make a ftuffing, with fome pine kernels, currans, {weet 
herbs , fome minced frefh  fifh, or fome of the milts 
of carps: that have been fried or boiled in good’ ligaor, 
and fome mufhrooms half boiled and fliced ; mingle 
all together with fome yolks or whites of eggs raw; 
and fill up great cucumbers therewith being cored, 
fill chem up with the. forefaid farfing; pare them, and 
bake them in a difh, or ftew them between two 
deep bafons or deep. dithes s ; put fome butter to them, 
Sine ftrong broth of fith 5 or fair water y fomever- 

juyce’ 








#. 


The Art and Myftery of Cookery. 
ae Lyftery of Cookery 433 


% “ . Ne ea ‘ 
wh te P 





juyce or vinegar, and fome grated nutmeg, and ferve 


them on a difh with fippets. 


The Sixteenth Way, according to the T, “arab Mode: | 
> Take the flefh of a hinder part ofa hare, or any o2 


ther venifon, and mince it fmall with a little fat bacon,’ 


fome piftaches or pine-apple kernels, almonds, Spanifh 
or hazle nuts peeled; Spanifh chefnuts or French chef- 
nuts roafted and peeled, or fomecrutts of bread cut in 
flices,and tofted like unto chefnuts ; feafon this minced 
{tuff with falt, {pices,and fome fweet herbs ; if the flefh 
be raw, add thereunto butter and marrow, or good 
fweet fuet minced {mall and melted in a skillet,pour it 
into thefeafoned meat that is minced, and fry it, then 
melt fome butter in a skillet or pan,and make an omlet 
thereof; when it is half fried,put to the minced meat, 
and take the omlet out of the frying-pan with a skim- 
mer, break it not, and put itin a difh that the minced 
Meat may appear uppermoft; put fome gravy on the 
minced meat, and fome grated nutmeg, ftick fome fip- 
pets of fryed manchet onit, and flices of lemon. Roaft 
meat is the beft for this purpofe: - . | | 

. 21 The Seventeenth Way.) O22 8 
_ Take the kidneys of a loin of veal after ithath been 
well roafted, mince it together with its fat, and feafon 


it with falt, {pices,and fome time,or other fweet herbs, 


add thereunto fome fried bread,fomeboil’d mufhrooms 
or fome piftaches, make anomlet, and being half fried, 
put the minced meatonit.. . | ; ager 
Fry them well together, and ferve it up with fome 
grated nutmeg and fugar. 
~ 3. The Eighteenth Way, aL 
‘Take a carp or fome other fith,bone it very well,and 
¢: Gg add 












add to it fome milts of carps, feafon them with pepper 
and falt, or with other {pices 5 add fome mufhrooms, 
and mince themall together, put to them fome apple- 
kernels, fome currans, and preferved lemons in pieces 
fhred very fmall: fry them in a frying-pan or tart-pan, 
with fome butter, and being fryed make an omlet. Be- 
ing half fried, put the fried fifh on it,and difh them on a 
~ plate,rowl it round,cut it at both ends,and fpread them 
abroad, grate fome {ugar on it, and fprinkle on rofe- 


‘water. 
2 The Nineteenth Way, ? 
Minceall kind of {weet herbs, and the yolks oe 
eggs together, fome currans, and {ome mufhrooms half 
boil’d,being all minced cover them over,fry them as the 
former, and ftrow {ugar and cinamononit. — 3 


] 


The Twentieth Way. 4 

Take young and tender fparagus, break or cut them 
in {mall pieces,and half fry them brown in butter,put in- 
to them eggs beaten with falt,and thus make your omlet. 

Or boil them in water and falt,then fry them in {weet 
butter,put the eggs to them,and make an omlet, difhit, 
and put a drop or two of vinegar, or verjuyce on it. 

Sometimes take mufhrooms, being ftewed make an 
omlet, and fprinkle it with the broth of the mufhrooms, 
and grated nutmeg. ; 


The one and Trrentieth Way.. 


Slice fome apples and onions, fry them, but not tod 
much, and beat fome fix or eight eggs with fome fale, 
a them to the apples and onions, and make an omlet, 

eing fried, make {auce with vinegar or grape-verjuyce; 
. butter, fugar, and muftard. | 5 
@ 





nie aoe : 5 eS en, dee fone aaa, ne ie bs ay bs ; . nei 
‘* The Art and Myftery of Cookery. 435, 


. Todrefs hard ges divers ways. 

“ee Thebak: Ways ie4 catk Aas 

- Put fome butter into a dith, with fome vinegar or 

_verjuyce, and falt ; the butter being melted; put in two 
or three yolks of hard eggs, diffolve them in the butter 
and verjuice for the fauce; then have hard eggs, part 
them in halves or quarters, lay them in the fauce, and 
grate fome nutmeg over them, or the cruft of white- 


bread: nabs} if 
3 The Second Way. . Lash eens 
_ Fry fome parfley,fome minced leeks; and young oni- 
ons, when you have fried them pour them into a difh, 
feafon them with falr and pepper, and put to them hard 
eggs cut in halves, put fome muttard to them, and difh 
the eggs, mix the fauce well together; and pour it hor 
Muiheeeoe eiry 216 midge on 
~The Third Way... ri 
_ Thé eggs being boil’d hard, cut them in two, or fry 
them in butter with flour and milk or wine ; being fr1- 
ed, put them in a difh,put to them falr,vinegar,and juyce 
of lemon, make a fweet fauce for it with fome fugar, 
juyce oflemon, and beaten cinamon. 


paaouun nae DT hebogrth Ways! oi9 80308 10.201 

. Cut hard.eggs in twain,and feafon them witha white 
fauce made in a frying-pan with the yolks ofraw eggs, 
verjuyce and white-wine diffolved together, and fome 
falt,a few fpices, and fome {weet herbs, and pour this 
fauce over the eggs. | | 


The Fifth Way in the Portugal Fafbion, =. 
Fry fome parfley fmall minced,fome onions or leeksin 
frefh butter;being half fried} put into them hards eggs 
cutmtO rounds; a handful of nufhtooms well picked, 

Gez . | wathed 





BY thee aa (lic i one file, fry all ee 4 + 
mott fried, put fome: vinegar to them, difhthem, and 
- grate nutmeg on them, ves fee an on n the fippets 
flic’t par cit 3a vilteafst Bas Osveri ov 


4) ifr ey pr 
- veil re wee eae 
2 ALi ¥ 7S - , 


The Siok Wor DOF “HOt, OOMILTDON an 
Take ect bests purflain, lertice; i tary fe | 
parfley,chervil & tyme, being well picked and wathed. 
mince them very {mall, and feafon them with cloves,. 
pepper, falt,minced mufhrooms,and fome grated cheefe, 
putto them fome grated nucmeg, crifts of :manchet, 
{ome currans; pine- eral ae gelsnine hard: eggsin 
quarters, mingle all ‘together, fill the! whites; and ftew 
them ina difh, ftrow over the {tuff , being fryed with 
fome butter;pout the fried farce: Sth niseeheas being 
difhed, and grate fome nutmeg, and crufts of manchet. 
a fy fe Ou and ag it mess the SEES. 

: To duces a. ‘Dih oi Baers 19331 
taken ee eggs. more or lefs,: whites pa igs as) 
you pleafe;break them into afilver, difhjyuith fome falty 
and fet them on a.quick charcoal fire, dtir them with ;ai 
filver fpoon,and being finely buttered put to them the 
* juyce of three or four,orahges; dugar,grated nutmeg,and 
fometimeés beaten cinamon,being. thus ei {train eel 


Se al 


29" 


at the firft,or afterward being cmehica Sut | 


To M3 a Bish if, og. san ne es 


ike a good big dith, lay alayo flices of sete ol | 


tween two lays of toafted cheat bread, put on them fome 
clear mutton broth,green ordry peafe broth, or any o- 
ther clear pottage thatis feafoned with bucter and falt, | 
caft on fome chopped parfley grofly minced, and upon 


that fome poached eggs.) | pate 
| Or 


; 


The Art and Myfteryof Cookery. =.437 
Or drefs this difh whole or in pieces, lay between 
fome carps,milts fried,. boil’d, or tewed, as you do oy- 
fters,ftewed and fried gudgeons,fmelts,or oyfters; {ome 
fried and ftewed capers, mufhrooms, and. fuch like 
junkets. 3 , ied eT ey 
- Sometimes you may ufe currans, boil’d.or ftewed 
prunes, and put to the forefaid mixture, with fome 
whole cloves, nutmegs,mace,ginger,fome white-wine, 
verjuyce, or green fauce, fome grated nutmeg over all, 
and fome carved lemon. 
) | Figs 1n Moon (line. 7 
Break them in a difhupon fome butter and oy! mel- 
ted or cold,f{trow on them a little falt,and fet chem ona 
chafing difh of coals make not the yolks too hard,and in 
the doing cover them, and make.a {auce for. them of-an 
onion cut into round flices, and fried in {weet oy] or 
butter,then putto them verjuyce, grated nutmeg,a lit- 
tle, falt,and fo ferve them. 


Eges in Moon fhine otherways. 


- Take the beft oy] you can get,and fer it over the fre 
on a filver difh, being very hor, break in the eggs, and 
before the yolks of the eggs do become very hard,take 
them up and difh them in a clean difh ; then make the 
fauce of firyed onions in round flices, fryed in oyl. or 
{weet butter, falt, and fome grated nutmeg. 


Otherways. 

Make a firrup of rofe-water, fugar, fack, or white- 
wine, make it in a difh and break the yolks of the eggs 
as whole as you can,put them in the boiling firrup with 
fome ambergriece, turn them and keep them one from 
the other, make them hard, and ferve them ina little 
difh with fugar andcinamon. 

eae G 33 Other- 





%, 


Wel | ‘ .. ‘ 
‘oa 
a : 
? , 4, 
ei 





DAM, Ramat IER OT Ae pA as 
* sy syeeteny rahi hee hc) bk ahh wae hs ‘ mpeg ity oa 


7 ae Ciel 2 Ren ee =e S 
: ce aitinin i aioe aes ae 
aa, ish ea Ce y ae? a : . 












PN ee abaah 
See ; i ? a” ett Be = i: 5a ——— : -~ 
438 | The Accomplifot COOK:Or, 


Liat :  Othervoays; 92 Aas. DN 
Take a quarter of a pound of good frefh butter, balm 

it on the bottom of a fine clean difh, then break fome 
eight or ten eggs uponit, {prinkle them with a little 


~ faltjand fet them on a foft fire till the whites and yolks 
-bepretty clear and ftiff, butnot too hard, ferve them 


hot, and puton them the juyce of oranges arid lemons. 
Or before you break them put to the butter fprigs of 
rofemary, juyce of orange, and’ fugar ; being baked on 
the embers,ferve them with fugar and beaten cinamon, 
and in place of orange, verjuyce. Re 


Eggs otherways. 
Fry them whole in clarified butter with fprigs of rofe- 
mary under,fry them not too hard,and ferve them with 
fried parfley on them, vinegar, butter, and pepper. ‘ 


To drefi Eggs in the Spanifh Fafbton,called,wivos me quidos 
Take twenty eggs frefh and new and ftrain them with 
aquarter of a pint of fack, claret, or white-wine, a 


~ quarter of fugar, fome grated nutmeg, and falt ; beat. 


them together with the juyce of an orange, and put to 
them a little musk (or none) fer them over the firejand 


ftir them continuall y till they be a little thick,(but not 


too much) ferve them with fcraping fugar being put 
in aclean warm dith,on fine toafts of manchet foaked in 
juyce of orange and fugar,or inclaret, fagar, or white- 
wine, and fhake the eggs with orange, ¢omfits,o# mus- 
kedines red and white. > ies 
| ‘To drefs Eggs in the Portugal Fafhion. | 
Strain the yolks of twenty eggs,dnd beat them very 
wellinadifh, put to them fome musk and rofe-water 
made of fine fugar, boil’d thick ina clean skillet,put - 
Peele ; Pee y ; mAh _ v 7 i: t e 


remem a 


The Art and Myftery 


the eggs, and ftew them ona foft fire;being finely ftew- 
ed,difh them on a French plate in a clean difh,{crapeon - 
-fagar,and trim the difh wich your finger. 

in ar | Otherways, 
~ Take twenty yolks of eggs, or as many whites, put 
them feverally into two difhes,take out the cocks tread, - 
and beat them feverally the {pace of anihour ; then have 
a firrup made in two feveral skillets, with halfa pound 
a piece of double refined fugar,and a liccle musk and am- - 

_bergriece bound upclofe in a fine rag, fet them a ftewin 
on a foft fire till they be enough on both fides,then difh 
them on a filver plate, and fhake them with preferved 
ee mauskedines white and red, and green citron 

ic’t. | 

Put into the whites the juyce of fpinage to make 

them green. hy | 

To drefs Eggs called in French A-\a-Hugenotte, or. 

| the Proteftant-way. 

Break twenty eggs, beat them together, and put to — 
them the pure gravy of a leg of mutton,or the gravy of 
roaft beef,ftir and beat them well together over a cha- 
fing-difh of coals with a little falt,add to them alfo juyce 
of orange and lemon, or grape verjuyce ; then put in 
fome mufhrooms well boil’d and feafoned. Obferve as 
foon as your eggs are well mixed with the gravy and 
the other ingredients, then take them off from the fire, 
keeping them covered a while, then ferve them with 
fome grated nutmeg over them. 

Sometimes to make them the more pleafing and 
toothfome, ftrow fome powdered ambergriece, and 
fine loat fugar {craped into them, and fo ferve them, 

T i drefs Eggs 12 Eafhion of a Tanfie. 

Take twenty yolks of eggs, and ftrain them on flefh 
days withabout half a pint of gravy, on fith-days with 

) Gea cteam 





« 


- 





Eggs and almonds. : 
Take twenty eggs and ftrain them with halfa pound 
of almond-pafte, and almoft half a pint of fack, fugar, 
nutmeg, and rofe-water, fet them on the fire,and when — 
they be enough, difh them on a hot difh without toaft, 
ftick them with blanched and flic’t almonds,and wafers, 
{crape on fine fugar, and trim the difh with your finger, — 


To broil Eggs. ; 


Take an oven peel, heat it red hot,and blow off the 
duft,break the eggs on it,and put them into a hot oven, — 
or brown them on the top with a red hot fire fhovel; _ 
being finely broil’d, put them into a clean difh, with 
fome gravy,a little grated nutmeg,and elder vinegar ; or 
pepper, vinegar’, juyce of orange, and grated nutmeg on 


them °° > 

ieee To drefs poached Eggs. 
_ Take a dozen of new laid eggs, and the meat of 4 or 
five partridges or any roaft poultrey, mince it as {mall as 
~ you can, and feafon it with a few beaten cloves, mace, — 
and nutmeg,put them into a filver difh with a ladle full — 
or 2 of pure mutton gravy,and 2 or three anchoves dif? — 
folved,then fet ita ftewing ona chafing difh of coals; 
being half ftewed,asic boils put in the eggs one by ote, 
Pacha te ree pees te Oye ¥ and’ 


A 


tr :: Y 
? 
. (ae 





The Art and Myftery of Cookery. 441. 
andas you break them, put by moft of the whites, and 
with one end of your egg fhell put in the yolks round 
in order amongt{t the meat, let them ftew till the eggs 
be enough, then put in alittle grated nutmeg, and the 
juice ofacouple of oranges, put not inthe feeds, wipe 
the difh, and garnifhit with four or five whole onions 
boiled and broil'd. 

Otherways. . 
The eggs being poached,put them into a difh, ftrow 
falt on them, and grate on cheefe which will give thera 
a good relifh. 
Otherways. 
Being poached and difhed, ftrow on thema little 
falt,{crape on fugar,and {prinkle them with rofe-water, 


verjuyce,juyce of lemon,or orange,a little cinamon wa- 
ter, or fine beaten cinamon. 


Otherwaysto poach Eges. 


Take as many as you pleafe, break them into a difh 
and put to them fome {weet butter,being melted,fome 
falt, fugar,and a little grated nutmeg,give them a cullet 
in the difh, ec. an 

Otherways. | 

Poach them, and put green fauceto them, let them 
ftanda while uponthe fire, then feafon them with fale, 
and a little grated nutmeg. ed 

Or makeafauce with beaten butter, and juyce of 
grapes mixt with ipocras,pour it on the eggs,and {crape 
BGT | ae ake, 
5 Otherways. 
~ Poach them either in water,milk,wine,fack,or clear 
verjuyce, andferve them with vinegar in faucers, 

Or make broth for them,and ferve them on fine carved 
fippets,make the broth with wathed currans,large ss e, 
lp i 8 Se 4) sacle apiece 74. ae 

















zt PRS AE ae he ee A a al raat oo Beg cs (ie au 
¥ be} Fa el ‘ on ee 3 uz Bi mh Lee iT 

; ‘ aed eke FRACS 1. Urea US we Oe ; ‘ 
4 ce ” “A 3 Ws the . 
7: BT > TENG 4 7 a " = 
iv 4 Sol ae riff “ Set aj Wee RO : 5 Pia ; 
q ¢ ue C a cite ‘ rial Map 

4 4, : oe A es ‘ Km 
Accomplifht COOK: Or, 


wr 





A442 The 








fair water,butter, white wine,and fugar, vinegar, juyce 
of orange, and whole cinamon; being difhedrun them 
over with beaten butter,the flices of an orange,and fine 
{craped fugar. I Ta Ge ros 

Or make fauce with beaten almonds, ftrained with 
verjuyce, fugar beaten, buteer, and large mace, boiled — 
and difhed as the former. VOEIGE. 

Or almond milk and fugar. 


A grand faret Difh of Eggs. | 
Take twenty hard eggs,being blanched,part themin 
halveslong ways,take out the yolks and fave the whites, 
mince the yolks, or ftamp them amongft fome march 
pane pafte,a few {weet herbs chopt {mall,& mingled a- 
mongtt fugar, cinamon, and fome currans well wafhed, 
fill again the whites with this farcing, and fet them by. 
Then have candied oranges or lemons, filled with 
march-pane pafte,and fugar, and fet them by alfo. 
Then have the tops of boil’d {paragus,mix them with a 
batter madeof flour,falt,and fair water, 8 fet them by. 
Next boil’d chefnuts and piftaches, and fer them by. 
Then have skirrets boil’d, peeled, and laidin batter. 
Then have prawns boil’d and picked, and fet by in 
batter alfo, oyfters parboil’d and cockles, eels cut in 
pieces being flayed, and yolks of hard eggs. i 
Next have green quodling ftuff,mixt with bisket bread 
and eggs, fry them_.in little cakes, and fet them by alfo. 
Then have artichocks and het ready to fry in 
batter, being boil’d and cleanfed alfo. 
Then have balls of parmifan, as big a walnut, made 
up and dipped in batter,and fome balls of almond paite. 
Thefe aforefaid being finely fryed in clarified butter, — 
and muskefied,mix them in agreat charger one amongft 


another ,and make a fauce of {trained grape aa Se 
wa : white 


a ; ae io 5 aati i A A any a i 
‘ . “ e im eee 





The Art and Myftery of Cookery. 443. 
white-wine,yolks of eggs,cream,beaten butter,cinamon 
_ and fugar,fet them in an oven to warm 5 the fauce being 
boil’dup, pouritover all, and fetitagainin the oven, - 
ice it with fine fugar, and fo ferve it. 


es Otherways. bay: 
Boil ten eggshard, and part them in halves long 
ways, take out the yolks,mince them, and put to them 
fome fweet herbs minc’d {mall,fome boil’d currans, fale, 
fugar, cinamon,the yolks of two or three raw eggs,and 
fome almond pafte, (or none) mix all together, and fill 
again the whites, then lay them in a difh on fome but- 
ter with the yolks downwards, or ina patty-pan, bake 
them,and make fauce of verjuyce & fugar,ftrained with 
the yolk of an egg and cinamon,give it a walm, and put 
to it fome beaten butter; being difhed, ferve them 
with fine carved fippets, flic’t orange, and fugar. 


To make a great compound Egg, as lig as twenty Egos; 
Take twenty eggs, part the whites from the yolks, 
and ftrain the whites by them felves, and the yolks by 
_ themfelves ; then have two bladders, boil the yolks in 
on bladder,faft bound upas round as a ball, being boil’d 
hard, put it in another bladder, andthe whites round 
about it, bind it up round like the former, and being 
Pape it willbea perfect egg. This ferves for grand 
allets. : au ¢ | 
*- Or you may add to thefe yolks of eggs, musk, and 
ambergriece,candied piftaches,grated bisket-bread, and 
fugar, and to the whites,almond-pafte, musk, juyce of 
Oranges, and beaten ginger, and ferve it with butter, 
~ almond milk, fugar, and juyce of oranges. 
. To butter Eggs upontoafts. 
Take twenty eggs,beat them ina difh with fome fale, 
Be ’ and 






v 


‘The Acco 


ais Je ~# Hae , 
oe eo Nauifaier 0) e 





Asa 





EE 


and put butter to them; then have twolarge roulsor 


fine manchets, cut them into toafts,8z toaft them againft 
the fire witha pound of fine {weet butter ; being finely 
buttered, lay the toaftsin a fair clean fcowred dith, put 
the eggs on the toafts, and garnifh the difh with pepper 
and falt. Otherways, half boilthem in the fhells, then 
a at and {erve them on toafts, or toafts about 
them. =) ray 
To thefe eggs fometimes ufe musk and ambergriece, 
and no pepper. | Ng ae 
Otherways. eke ‘ 
Take twenty eggs, and ftrain them whites and all 
with a litcle falt ; then have a skillet with a pound of 
clarified butter,warm on the fire, then frya good thick 
toaft of fine manchet asround as the skillet, and an inch 
thick,the toaft being finely fryed, put the eggs onit in- 
to the skillet, to fry on the manchet, but not too hard ; 
being finely fried put it on a trencher-plate with the 
eggs uppermoft, and fale dbout the difh. . * 


An excellent way to butter Eggs, ; 
Take twenty yolks of new laidor frefh eggs, put 
them into a dith with as many {poonfuls of jelly,or mut- 


J 


ton gravy without fat, put to it a quarter of a poundof — 


fugar, 2 ounces of preferved lemon-peel either grated 
or cut into thin flices or very little bits, with fome fale, 
and four {poonfuls of rofe-water, {tir them together on 
the coals, and being butter’d difhthem, put fome musk 
on them with fome fine fugar ; you may as well eat 
thefe eggs cold as hot, with a little cinamon-water, or: 
without. | 
| Sapa Otherways. ee a 
_ Dre them with claret,white-wine, fack,or juyce of 
oranges,nutmeg,fine fugar,& a little fale,beat them well 
De tee ae toge. 





SON SE a ey rs Ae Ty yy A 3 
ae rt Rea oaeie ag 1")! : 
ue Wace aie ee ee ike 








The Art and Myflery of Cookery. 445. 


‘together in a fineclean difh, with carved fippets, and 
candied piftaches {tuck in them, * fey gaits 
3 Eggs buttered in the Polomidn fafbton. 
Take twelve eggs,and beat them in a difh,then have 
fteeped bread in gravy or broth, beat them together in 
a mortar, with {ome falt, and put it to the eggs, then 
put alittle preferv’d lemon peel into it, either {mall 
{hred or cut into flices, put fome butter into it, butter 
them as the former, and ferve them onfinefippets. 
” Or with cream,eggs,falt,preferved lemon-peels grat- 
edor in flices. ing. 
~ Or grated cheefe in butteredeggs andfal. =; 


4.) \. Otherways. FEDS GLE SAI 

Boil herbs, as {pinage, fage, {weet miarjoram,and en- 

dive,butter the eggs amongft them with fome falt, and 
grated nutmeg. $10) 13¢ 

Or drefs them with fugar; orange juyce, falt, beaten 

cinamon, and grated nutmeg, ftrain the eggs with the 


juyce of oranges, and let the juyce ferve inftead of but- 
tet ; being well foaked,put fome more juyce over them 
and fugar. wie | f* it ogaH 
a make minced Pies of Eggs according to thefe forms. -; 





_ Boil them hard, then mince them and mix them with 
cinamon, raw currans, carraway-leed, {ugar,and dates, 
Tine | minced 





De 





446 The Accomplifit COOK: Or, 
minced lemon peel;verjuyce,rofe-water,butter,and falts- 
fill your pie or pies,clofe them,and bake them,being ba, - 
ked,liquor them with white-wine,butter,and fugar,and 
"ice them. ee Te 





Gi 230929) Eges or Quelyuefoofe. = 
” Break forty eggs, and beat them together with fome 
falt,fry them at four times, halffor but of one fide; be- 
foré you take them out of the panmake a compofition 
or compound of hard eggs, and {weet herbs minced, 
forme boil’d currans, beaten cinamon, almond-pafte, fu- 
gar,and juyce of orange, {trow all over thefe omlets,roul 
them up like a wafer, and fo of the reft;. put them in 
a difh with fome white-wine,fugar,and juyce of lemon; 
then warm and ice them in an oven,with beéatén butter — 
and fine fugar. = matte ted 
Bis MOL chive cOthemmaysa = oe “soheaege cori!) 

Set on a skillet,either full of milk, wine,water,«ver- 
juyce, or fack, make the liquor boil, then have twenty 
eggs beaten together with falt;.and fome {weet herbs 
chopped; run them through a cullender into the boiling 
liquor; or put them in by {poonfuls or all together ;, be- 
ing-not too hard boil’d, take them up and difh them 
with beaten butter, juice of orange, lemon; or grape: 
verjuyce, and beaten butter. ! 

Blanch Manchet in a frying-Pan. 

Take fix eggs,a quart of cream,a penny manchet gra- 
ted,nutmeg gratedstwo {poonfuls of rofe-water, and 2 
ounces of fugar,- beat it up like a pudding, and fry it as 
you fry a tanfie ; being fryed turn it out on a plate,quar- 
ter it,and put on the juyce ofan orange and fugar. 


:  Quelgne thofe otherways. ISL LORE: 
“Take teneggs, and beat them ina difh witha penny 
3 man- 












The Art and Myflery of Cookery. : . Ag 


manchet grated, a pint of cream, fome beaten cloves 
mace,boil’d currans, fome rofe-water, falt, and fugar s 
beat all together,and fry it either in a whole form ofa 
tanfie, or by fpoonfuls in little cakes, being finely fried; 
ferve them ona plate with juyce of orange and {craping 


fugar. : 
Other Fricafe or Quelque fhofe. 


Take twenty eggs, and ftrain them with a quart of 
cream,fome nutmeg, falt, rofe-water,and a little fugar, 
then have {weet butter in aclean frying-pan,and put in 
fome pieces of pippins cut as thick as a half crown piece 
round the apple being cored; when they are finely 
fried, put in half the eggs, fry them a little, and then 
pour on the reft or other half, fry it at two times, ftir 
the laft, difh the firft on a plate, and put the other onit 
with juyce of orange and fugar. 


Other Fricale of Egas. 


Beat a dozen of eggs with cream, fugar,nutmeg,mace, 
and rofe-water,then have two or three pippins or other 
good apples,cut in round flices through core and all,put 
them if a frying-pan,and fry them with {weet butter ; 
when they be enough,take them up and fry half the eggs 
and cream in other frefh butter,ftir it like a tanfie, and 
being enough put it out into a difh,put in the other half. 
of the eggsand cream, lay the apples round the pan, and 
the other eggs fried before, uppermoft ; being finely 
fried, difh it-on a plate, andsput to it the juyce of an o- 
range and fugar. ~ wait : 


Section 


-- Inftead of p 










; ’ a eS oi ae 2 f - 
BS rr. Pe aa we SUE r ? ifn 4 
8 ‘The Accomplifhbt COOK: Or, 
44 Lhe Accompifht COOK: Or, — 

- BZ dihidie pn titan - “ fe ale AVS = ve detonate dn ei hee Bn aa 

_— 
et ~n : Sea om | ae ee 
ut 


ck am pup 








: f | : To ftew Arsichocks 


blige e artichocks being boil’d, take out the core,and 
& take offall the leaves, cut the bottoms into quar- 
ters fplitting them inthe middle; then have a flat ftew- 
ing-pan or difh with manchet-toafts in it, lay the arti- 
chocks on them,then the marrow ot two bones,five or 
fix large maces,halfa pound of preferved plumbs, with 
the firrup, verjuyce,and fugar ; if the firrup donot make 
them fweet enough, let all thefeftew: sogether:2 hours; 
if youftew them:ind difh,ferve themup in it,not f{tirring 
them, only laying::on fome'preferves which ate freth, 
as barberries, and fuch like, fippet-it, and ferve it up: 
referved, if you have none, ftew ordina- 
ry plumbs which will be cheaper,and:donigh as well: 
To fry. Artichocks.. 
» Boil and fever all from the bottoms, then flice them 


in the midft, quarter them, dip them in batter, and firy 
them in butter. For the fauce take verjuyce,butter,and 


_ fugar,with the juyce of anorange,lay marrow on them, 


garnith them with oranges, and ferve them up. 





<S apchc tae SOL ie tak alt tere 
5 


of Cookery. 


x; 





The Art and Myftery 





To fry young Artichocks atherways. 


Take young artichocks or fuckets, pare off all the 
outfide as you pare an apple;and boil them tender, then 
take them up; and fplit them through the midft, d not 
take out the core,but lay the fplit fide downward ona 
ary cloth to drain out the water; then mix a little 
flour with two or three yolks of eggs, beaten ginger, 
nutmeg & verjuyce, make it into batter and roul them 
well in it, then get fome clarified butter, make it hot, 
and fry them in it till they be brown. Make fauce with 
yolks of eggs,verjuyce or white-wine, cinamon, ginger, 
fugar,and a good piece of butter, keep it ftirring up- 
on the fire till it be thick, then difh them on white- 
bread toafts,put the caudle on them,and ferve them up: 





Hi SeGion 



















The Acconnplipbt COOK: 


eateries — 


or ’ 
, ®4: 
Zt” 





~ SeBion XXUL. 


Shewing the beft may of making Diet : 
for the SIRS thet fins OA 





To make a Broth for a Sick body. 


Ake a leg of veal,and fet ita boiling in a gallon of 
| fair water, {cum it clean, and when you have fo 
done put in three quarters of a pound of currans,half a 
pound-of prunes,a handful of borrage,as much mint,and 
as much harts-tongue ; let them feeth together till all 
the ftrength be fodden out of the flefh, then ftrain it as 
clean as you can. If you think the.party be in any heat, 
put in violet leaves and fuccory. ee 
To ftew aGock againft a Gonfumption. 
Cut him infix pieces,and wath him clean, then take 
prunes, currans, dates,raifins,fugar, three or four leaves 
-of gold,cinamon, ginger, nutmeg, and fome maiden hair, 
cut very {mall;put allchefe forefaid things into a flaggon 
with a pint of muskadine, and boil them ina great brafs 
pot of halfa buthel ; {top the mouth of the flaggon with 
a piece of pafte,and let it boil the {pace of twelve hours; 
being well ftewed, {train the liquor, and give it to the 
party to drink cold,two or three {poonfuls in the mor- 
ning fafting, and it {hall help him. Thus ts az approved 
Medi cine. 
| Other- 





The Art and Myfiery of Cookery... 45 
Otherways. 3... ’ 


. Take a good flefhy cock, draw him and cut him to 
pieces, wafh away the blood clean, and take away the 
lights that lie at his back,wath fs in white-wine;and no 
water, then put the pieces in a flaggon,and put to it two 
or three blades of large mace, a leaf of gold, amber- 
griece, fome dates,and raifins of theSun; clofe up the 
flaggon witha piece of pafte,and fetitin a pot a boiling 
fix hours; keep the pot filled up continually, with hort 
water ; being boil’d {train it,and when it is cold give of 
it to the weak party the bignefs of a hazel nut. 


. . « Stewed Pullets. Againft a Confumption. 

Take two pullets being finely cleanfed, cut them to 
pieces, and put them.in a narrow mouthed pitcher pot 
well glazed, ftop the mouth of it with a piece of pafte 
and fet it a boiling in a good deep brafs pot or veflel of 
water, boiliteight hours, keep it continually boiling; 
and {till filled up with warm water ; being well ftew- 
ed,ftrain it,and blow off the fat ; when you give it to the 
party,give it warm with the yolk of an egg, diffolved 
with the juyce ofan orange. HD fa 

To diftill a Pig good againft.a Confumption. 

Take a pig,flay it and caftaway the guts ; then take 
the liver,lungs, and all the entrails; and wipe all witha 
clean cloth 3 then put it into a Still with a. pound of 
dates, the ftones taken out,and {liced into thin flices, a 
pound of fagar,and an ounce of large mace. If the party 
be hot in the ftomach; then take thefe cool herbs, as 
violet leaves, ftrawberry leaves; andhalfa handful of 
buglofs; ftill them wich a foft fire as you do rofes, and 
let the party take of itevery morning and evening in 
any drink or broth he pleafes. | VIG 

You may fometimes add raifins-anid cloves, < 

Bae Hh2 : To 








452 The Accomplifot COOK 2 Or, °< 


. : 





‘To make Broth good agatnjt a Gonfumption. 
Take a cock and a knuckle of veal,being well foak- 
ed from the blood,boil them in an earthen pipkin of five 
quarts,with raifins of the fun,a few prunes,fuccory,lang — 
de-beef roots,fennil dpedaiog es little annifeed,a pint 
of white-wine,hyffop, violet leaves, ftrawberry-leaves, 
bind all the forefaid roots, and herbs, a little quantity 
of each ina bundle,boil it leifurely,fcum it,and when it 
is boil’d ftrain it through a {trainer of ftrong canvas, 
when you ufe it, drink it asoften as you pleafe blood- 
warm. | | aad 4 
Sometimes in the broth,or of any of the meats afore- 
faid,ufe mace.raifins of the fun,a little balm,endive,fen- 
nel and parfley roots. wey oH 
Sometimes forrel,violet leaves, fpinage, endive, fuc- 
- cory, fage, a little hyflop,raifins of the fun, prunes,a lit- 
tle faffron, .and the yolk of an egg, ftrained with ver- 
juyce or white-wine. PORT eis 
~~ Otherways. | | 
Fennil-roots,colts foot,agrimony, betony,large mace, 
white fandersflic’t in thin flices the weight of {1x pence, 
made witha chicken anda cruftof manchet, take it 
morning and evening. 3 
: Otherways. ee 
Violet leaves, wild tanfie,{uccory-roots, large mace, 
yaifins, and damask prunes boil'd with a chicken and a 
cruft of bread. | | 
Sometimes broth made of a chop of mutton,veal, or’ 
chicken, French barley, raifins, currans, capers, fuccory’ 
roots,parfley roots,fennil-roots,balm, borrage, buglofs 
endive, tamarisk, harts-hora, ivory, yellow fanders,an 
fumitory,put to thefe all(or fome)in amoderatequantity. 
Otherways,a {prig of rofemary, violet-leaves, tyme, 
mace, fuccory, raifins, and a cruft of bread. a 
Man ‘ 0 











Ly Wade MI 
me Dy A AG 
‘45 


The Art and Myftery of Cookery. 453 | 





To make a Pafte for a Confumption. 

Take the brawn of a roafted capon,the brawn of two 
partridges, two rails, two quails, and twelve {parrows 
all roafted ; take the brawns from the bones, and beat 
them in a {tone mortar with two ounces, of the pith of 
roaft veal, a quarter of a pound of piftaches,halfa dram 
of ambergriece, a grain of musk, anda pound of white 
fugar-candy beaten fine; beat all thefein a mortar to a 
perfect pafte,now and then putting ina {poonful of goats 
milk, alfo two or three grains of bezoar ; when you 
Have beaten all to a perfect pafte, make it into litcle 
round cakes, and bake them ona fheet of white paper. 


To make a felly for a Gonfumption of the Lungs. 


Take halfa pound of ifing glafs,as much harts-horn,an 
ounce of cinamon,an ounce of nutmegs, a few cloves,a 
pound of fugar, a {tick of-liquoras, four blades of large 
mace,a pound of prunes,an ounce of ginger, a little red 
fanders, and as much rubarb as will lie on a-fix pence, 
boil the forefaid in a gal!on of water, and a pint of cla- 
ret till a pint be watted or boil’d away, boil them on a 
foft fire clofe covered,and {lice all your {pices very thin. 


«+ An excellent Water for a Confumptiox. 

Takea pint of new milk,and a pint of good red wine, 
the yolks of twenty four new laid eggs raw,and diflolv- 
ed in the forefaid liquors; then haveas much fine flic’t 
manchet as will drink up all this liquor, put it into a 
fair rofe-ftillwith a foft fire,and being diftilled,take this, 
water in all drinks and pottages the fick party thall ear, 
or the quantity of a f{poonful at a draught in beer, in 
one month it will recover any Confumption. . 

Te lima 3 Hh3 | Other- 


ad 


VER pS eae RST UE oly LR MARY” Fas Ret 
ehes4 5 yy * % Pe 


















rad 2 


Te Arm p COOK: Ore 7 


Other drink for a Gon{umption. 
Take a gallon of running water of ale meafure,put to 

it an ounce ot cinamon,an ounce of cloves, an ounce of 
mace, and a dram of acter-roots, boil this liquor till ie 
come to three quarts, and let ‘the party daily drink of 
it till He ments. 9°09 Oe SOS ie 


To make an excellent Broth or Drink for a Sick Body. 
Takea good flefhy capon, take the flefh from the 
bones, or chop it in pieces very {mall, and not wath it 5 
then put them in a rofe ftill with’ flics of lemon-peel, 
wood-forrel,or other herbs according to the Phy/tians 
cries 5 being diftilled, give itto the weak:party to 
rink. . 
Or {oak them in malmfey and fome capon broth be- 
fore you diftillthem. . |. eee 
« ' %o make a ftrong Broth for a Sick Party.~ ~~ 
Roatt a leg of mutton,fave the gravy,and being roatt- 
* ed prick it, and prefs out'the-gravy with ‘a wooden 
prefs; putall the gravy into a filver porrenger or piece, 
with the juyce of an orange and: fugar, “warm it on the 
coals, and give itthe weak partys © 0). 0 ot Lied 
Thus you may do a roaft or boil’d capon, partridge, 
pheafant, or chicken, take the flefh from the bones,and 
{tampit ina ftone or wooden mortar, with fome 
crumbs offine manchet, ftrained with capon broth, or 
without bread, and put the yolk ofan egg, juyceofo- 
range, lemon, or grape verjuyce and fugar. © 'oy * 
ERD i) ab oe Gee yy SOT Shes : 
: 0"To make China Broth. sen. 
Take an ounce of China thin flic’t,put itin a'pipkin of 
fair water,with a lietle veal or chicken, ftopped'clofe in 
’a pipkin, let ic ftand 4-and twenty liours onthe embers 
but not boilsthen put co it colts foot, ee 
Pade lea ene ee ere ca OE Shlain sabe Sse 2 aly 


brig’ g 


¥y 


454, 


Se"! Bi 


ne 










ai 
4 


The Art and Moftery of 


hair,violet leaves halfa handful,candied eringo,and 2 or 
3 marth mallows, boil them on a foft fire till the rhird 
part be wafted, then put in acruft of manchet, alittle 
‘mace, a few raifins of the fun ftoned, and let it boila 
while longer. Take of this broth every morning half a 
pint for a month,then leave ita month,& we itagain. 

: China Broth otherways. 
Take 2 ounces of China root thin fliced, and half an 
ounce of long pepper bruifed; then take of balin,tyme, 
fage, marjoram, nepe,and {malk, of each two {lices,cla- 
ry,a handful of cowflips, a pint of cowflip water, and 
3 blades of macesput all into a new and well glazed pip-. 
in of 4 quarts,8c as much fair water as will fill the pip- 
kin, clofe it up with pafte and {et it on the embersto 
warm, butnot to boil; let ic ftand thus foaking4 and 
twenty hours; then take it offand put to ita good big 
cock chicken,a calves foot,a knuckle of mutton,and 2_ 
little fale; ftew all with agentlefire toa pottle;fcum it 
very clean & being boil’d {train the cleareft from the 
dregs & drinkofit everymornig half a pint blood-warm. 

| To make Almond Milk againft a hot Difeafe.: 

Boil halfa pound of French barley in 3 feveral waters, 
keep the laft water. to make your milk of , then ftamp 
half a pound of almonds with a little of rhe fame water 
to keep them from oyling ; being finely beaten;ftrain it 
whith the reft of the barley water,put fome hard fugar 
co it, boilit a little, and give ic the party warm. 
"An excellent Reftorattve for aweak bach, 9 

Take clary,dates, the pith of an oxe, and chop them 
together, put {ome cream to them, eggs, grated bread, 
and a little white faunders, temper them al! well toge- 
ther fry them, and eat it in the morning fafting. » | 

‘Otherways, take the leaves of clary and: nepe, fry 
them with yolks of eggs, and eat them to break fat. 
a od be a Ae Section 


ie =P 









i F you will have fat crammed chickenscoop them up 





Exce!lent Ways for Feeding of 
oe Putte oe 


To feed Chickens. 


when the dam hath forfaken them, -the cram- 
ming for them is wheat-meal and milk madeinto dough 
the crams fteeped in milk, and fo thruft down their 
throats ; but in any cafe let the crams be fmalland well 
wet, for fear you choak them. Fourteen days will 
feed a chicken fufficiently. | ii at St Se 


: To feed Gapons. | 

Either atthe barn doors with {craps of corn and cha- 
vings of pulfe,or elfe in pens in the houfe,by cramming 
them,which is the moft dainty. The beft way tocram 
a capon (fetting all {trange inventions apart) isto take 
barley meal,r eafonably fifted, and mixing it with new 
milk,make it into good {tiff dough.; than take it into 
Jong crams thickeft in the middle,8fmall at both ends, 
then wetting themin luke-warm milk,giue the capon a 
full gorge thereof threetimes a day morning noon, and 
night, and he will ina fortnight or three weeks be as 


fat as any man need to eat. i. 
BPD Pg i ast ae The 





The Art and Myftery of Cookery. | 
The ordering of Goflings. sf 

- After they are hatched you fhall keep them in the 
houfe ten or twelve days, and feed them with curds, 
fcalded chippins, or barley meal in milk knodden and 
broken,alfo ground malt is exceeding good,or any bran 
that is fcalded in water,milk,or tappings of drink, After 
they have got a little ftrength, you may let them. go 
abroad with a keeper five or fix hours in a day,and let 
the dam at her leifure entice them into the water; then 
_bring them in, and put them up, and thus order them > 
till they be able to defend themfelves from vermine. 

After a gofling is a month or fix weeks old you: may 
pe it up to-feed for a green goofe, &it will be perfect- 
_ ly fed inanother month following ; and to feed them, 
there is no better meat then skeg oats boil’d, and given 

plenty thereof thrice a day, morning, noon, and night, 
with good ftore of milk, or milk and water mixt toge- 
ther to drink. 
‘ For fatting of elder Geefe: 


For elder geefe which are five or {ix months old,ha- 
ving been in the ftubble fields after harveft,and got into 
good flefh; you {hall then choofe out fuch geefe as you 
would feed, and put them in feveral Pens which are 
clofe and dark, and there feed them thrice a day with 
good ftore of oats, or {pelted beans, and give thei to 
drink water and barly meal mixt together, which mutt 
evermore ftand before them. This will in three weeks. 
feed a goofe fo fat as is needfull. | 


The fatting of Ducklings. 
You may make them fat in three weeks giving them 
any kind of pulfe or grain, and good ftore of pe 
TS. a ; 2 wees atting 





The Accomplifh 


iy Farting of Swans and Gygnets, 
For Swans and their feeding, where they build their 
nefts, you fhall fuffer them to remain undifturbed, and 
it will be fufficient becaule they can better order: 
themfelves in that bufinefS thanany’man.. oe | 
Feed your Cygnets in all forts as you feed your Geefe, 
and they will fe through fat in feven or eight weeks.If 
‘you will have them fooner fat, you fhall feed them in 
fome pond hedged, or placed in for that purpofe. 


diel Of fatting Turkies. Bi 
For the fatting of turkies fodden barley isexcellent,or 
fodden oats for the firft fortnight, and then for another — 
‘fortnight cramthem in all forts as you cram your capon, 
‘and they will be fac beyond meaftire. “Now for their 
infirmities, when they are at liberty, they are fo 
good Phy/itians for themfelves, that they will never 
trouble their owners;but being cooptup-you muft cure 
them as you do pullets. Their eggs are exceeding whole- 
fome to eat, and reftore nature decayed wonderfully. 
Having a little dry ground where they may fit and 
‘prune themfelves,place two trouglis,one full of barley . 
and water,and the other full ofold dried malt wherein 
‘they may feed at their pleafure: Thus doing, they will 
be fat in lefs than a month: but you muft turn his 
walks*daily. 0) 8 20%) CORRE aT OES ORO 





Oy 


¢ 
Sete tere ata 





Of nourifbing and fattine- Heras, Puets Gulls,and Bitterns, 
Herns are nourifhed for two caufes,either for Noble- 
mens {ports,to make trains for the entering their hawks, 
or elfe to furnifh the table at great feafts ; the manner 
of bringing them up with the leaft charge, isto take 
them out of their nefts before they can flie,and put them 
into a large high barn, where there is many ne crofs 
| arian ! eams 





beams for themto pearch on ; ther to have on the flour 
divers: fquare boards with rings inthem, and between 
every board which fhould be two yards {quare, to place 
round fhallow tubs full of water,then to the boards yon 
fhall tye great gobbits of dogs flefh,cut from the bones, 
according to the number which you feed, and be fure 
to keep the houfe fiveet,and fhift the water often, only 





The Art and Myftery of Cookery. 459 
; rr cern 


the houfe muft be made fo,that it may raininnow and — 


then, in which thehern will take much delight; but if 
you feed her for the difh,then you. fhall feed them with 


iB em the entrals of beafts,and fuch like cut in great 
obbits.: | 
| : To feed Godwits, Kxots. Gray-Plovers , or Gurlews, 
Take fine chilter-wheat, and give them water thrice 
a day; morning, noon, and night; which will be very 
effectual ; but if you intend to have them extraordina- 
ry-crammed fowl,’ then you fhall take the fineft dreft 
wheat:meal,and mixing it with milk,make it into pafte, 
and ever as you knead it, fprinkle into it the grains of 
of {mall chilrer-wheat,till the pafte be fully mixt there- 
with; them make little {mall crams thereof,and dipping 
them in water,give to every fow] according to his big- 
nefs,” and let his gorge be well filled : do thus as oft as 
you thall find their gorges empty, and in one fortnight 
they will be fed beyond meafure,and with thefe crams 
you may feed any fowl of what kind or nature foever. 


Otherways.” | 
Feed them with good wheat: and water, give them 
thrice a day,morning,noon, and night ; if you will have 
them very fac & crammed fow],take fine wheat meal & 
mixit with milk,é make it into pafte,and as you knead 
jt,put in {ome corns of wheat fprinkled inamongft the 
pafte till the pafte be fullymixt therewith;then make lir- 


t 





ta 





‘tle fmall crams thereof,and dipping them in water, give’ 
to every ph georniing to his bignefs, -and:that his. 
gorge be well filled:do thus as oft as you fhall find their, - 
gorges empty,and in one fortnight they will be fed very 


_ fat ; with thefe crams you may feed any fowlof what 


kind or nature foever. ; : 
To feed Black: Birds Thrulkes, Felfares, ov ay. fall rs 
Birds whatfoever.. . ate Mo 13 


Being taken old and wild, it is good to havefome of 
their kinds tame to mix among them, and then putting 
them into great cages of three or four yards {quate, to 

havedivers troughs placed therein, fome filled with 
haws, fome with hemp feed,and fome with water, that 
the tame teaching the wild.to eat, andthe wild finding 
fuch change and alteration of food, they willin twelve 
*e es days grow exceeding fat, and fit: for. the 
itchen. REY 


| ‘To feed Olines. W-oilids [nek Fo 
Pat them into a fine room where they may have air, 


+L Fag 
wed oti tn 


give them water,and feed them with white bread boil- 


ed in good milk, and in one week or ten days they will 
be extraordinary fat. work Hepes 
To feed Pewets. it 
Feed them ina place where they may have the air, fet 
‘them good {tore of water, and feed them» withdtheeps 
lungs cut {mall into little bits,give ic thenvon boards,and 
fometimes feed them with fhrimps where they aré near 
the fea, andin one fortnight they willbe fat iftthey be 
followed with meat. Then two or three days before 
you {pend them give them cheefe curd to ak aia 
N ; ; ‘ Ie 





| ae | 
The Art and Myftery of Cookery. 461 








© The feedings of Pheafant, Partridge, Quails, 
ge ve and Wheat Ears. aS 
_- Feed them with good wheat and water, this give 
them thrice a day,morning noon,and night, will do it ve- 
ry effeQually ; but if you intend to have them extraor- 
dinary crammed fow], then take the fineft dreft wheat- 
meal,mix it with milk,and make into pafte, ever as you . 
knead it,fprinkle in the grains of corns of wheat,till the 
pafte be full mixt there with ; then make little fmall 
crams, dip them in water, and give to every fowl accor- 
ding to his bignefs,that his gorge be wellfilled,do thus = 
as often as you fhall find his gorge empty, and in one » 
fortnight they will be fed beyond meafure. Thus you er 
‘may feed curtle Doves. a 








BBBw 


ad che ais atta alia 


338 SGSREBS : 
The Table. | 


ye ee 4 
: 


Beef ‘dna Legare a e 


: A 
Nadélians.  page22 Beef baked ved dei fallion 
3 Almond Pudding 181 we: 
Almond Leath ~~~ 209 «Beef minced Pyes ie Fe 
Almond Guftard 237. Bullocks cheeks fouced 1 99 
Almond Tart 241°. Boarild baked ais 229 
Alwond Bread, Biskets ana Bacon broil'd 16¢ 
Gakes 369 Brawn bold Ibid. 
Almond cream 280 Brawn fouc't 192 
Almond cheefe 281 Brawn of Pye 193 
Almond candle 423 Brawn garuiht 194 
Apricocks baked 251 Breading of meats and fowls 
Apricocks preferved Ibid Bon | 
Ambergrtece cakes 270 Bacon gammon baked 227 
Apple cream 277 Bread the French fafhionr3g 
Aleberry 423 Biscket bread 273 
Artichocks baked 261 Bifguite du Roy Ibid 
 Artichocks flewed 448 Bean bread 274 
Artichocks ye 448, 449 Beer buttered 432 
Barberries preferved 254 
Bee Broth 13 Blamanger 297, 298 
— Broth flewed 14,15 Blanch manthet ina Srying 
Bisk divers ways5 6,7,8,47 pan. 
Bisk or Bataha Pye 211 
Beef fillet roafted $12 Cites be boil'd 129 
Beef roafted topickle 116 Calves head fouced 130 
Beef collops freed 117 Galves head roafted Ibid. 


Calves 





: The Table, 
Calves head hafbed 133 Cheefcakes without Milk 
Galves headbrofd 134 ~~ 2 
Galves head baked 131 Cheefecakes in the Ttalian 
Galves foot-pye A fafbton — 290, 291 
Galwes head roafted with Oy- Cream and frefh Gheefe 292 
feers, 131,143 Godling cream 177 
Calves feet roafted 134. Caft cream 282 
Galves chaldron baked 219 Glouted Cream Ibid 
Gapons in pottage 67 Cablidge cream 284 
Capons fouc't 197 Gream tart 248 — 
Calves chaldvon in minced Gherry tart ay 7: Sm 
Pyes. 220 Gherries preferved 252 - 
Capons boild 64,67, 85 Cake a very good one 





Capons fillings raw 30 Cracknéls, 272 
Cocks bold 62 Garp boil'd iz carbolion 301 
Gock flewed againft a Gon- Garp bisk 303 
fumption 450 Garp ftewed — 305 
Ghicken pye _ 212, 213 Garp ftewed the French way 
Chickens peeping boil'd 57 306, 307 
Chickens how to feed them Garp broth 309 
456 Garp in ftoffado 301 
Ghina broth = 454,455 Carp hafhed Ibid 
Capilotadoes or made Difhes Carp marinated 3IL 
7 5 Garp broild 312 
Gollops and eggs 169 Garp roafted arg 
| Collops like bacon of March. Garp Pye. 314 
pane, 268 Garp pie minc’t with eels 31 
Cucumbers pickled 163 Garp baked the French way 
Golliflowers buttered 427 Ibid 
—Cuftards how to make them Conger boil'd 359 
257 Conger fiewed 360 
Cuftards without eggs Ibid Conger marinated Ibid 
Gheefcakes how to make them Conger fouc’t Ibid 
. 287, 288 Conger roafted 361 


| aithcs 
H 


PN ae eee ee - 
Se Ee ate a ee 









“The Table. | ae 





ges in the Spantlh falhrons 
eal d; Wivos game udos 438 


Eggs i rs ne Portugal ia 


Gonger broil’a Tb 
Conger fryed 1 362 
Gonger baked “Ibid. Egg’ a- la-Hugenotte 439 
Gockles ftewed 399,400 Eggs in fafoion of a Tan 
Grabs flewed 410 
Grabs buttered Ibid. Eggs and Almonds 3 
Crabs bafhed | 411 Lees broild “ 
Grabs farced Ibid. Kegs poached 440, 44t 
Grabs boil'd 4i2 Eggs,grandfarced dh 442 
Grats fryed Ibid. Lges compounded ds a a 
Grabs baked 413 _ twenty Eggs 
Crab minced Pyes 414 Lggs bared on toajts Ibid. 
~D. | A&E saa in the on 
Eer redroafted 44 
Deer red baked 228 Fer. pare: pyes - ‘bid 
- Deer fallow baked 229 ggs or Quelque flofe 446 
Difh inthe Italian way 249 Eggs fricafe 447 
Damfin tart 247 els bold 350 
Damifins preferved 253 Heels flewed 351 
Ducklings how to fat them Eels in Stoffado | 352 
457 Eels fouced or jelted . 353 
Eels habed 355 
Eke: de table, a French Eels broiled . Ibid: 
difh » 9 Eels roafted 355, 356 
Figes fryed 169 Hels baked . 356, 357 
Eggs iny ed as round aS a sl Eel minced ia 358 
Bee vate 433 ae how to make 
Liges dreffed bard 435 FF IFO 7 
- Byges buttered 436 FErittersin ve Italian falbion 
«ge bisk. Ibid. 171 
Eizes in Moon flame . 437 liens of arms 17z 


Fried difhes of divers ie | 


Frica- — 








| ied Wiis halls, or tofts ib. 


yench tart = 
French Barley Cream 89 
Florentine of tongues 259 
Florentine of Partridg or ca- 
pon 260 
Florentine without pafte 261 


Elounders calvered 3.46. 
Frogs baked 4.8 
Furmety. 420 
Fowl halhed 143 


Fowl farced ft. 30,31 
Farcing in the Spantlh ba- 


\ fhton 32 
Basine Bosch bedi called 


Pinemolet 34 
Fricafe a rare one 67 
Flowers pickled 164. 

Ibid. 


Flowers iyhajon 


GRee ae Goofeberries 


pickled 164 
Grapes preferved 253 
Goofeberries preferved 254, 
Goofeberry Gream 279 
Ginger bread ae 275 
Geele bold * 89 


a9 giblets bola 91 
ES oo to order sey 


Gurl old ones to fat abe ib. 
H: 


Ares all -manner : 
pays 38, 39, 40, 4il 


Hafhes of Sy ‘Sou 
248 Hare halted ny 
Haves roafted <2 <5 Tage 

Haves four baked in apie 222 


faves three 10 a pye- Ibid, 
Hare t beg with a pudding. 


1h b15 belly 2%. 
Elens roafted aie 
Hip tart 245, 
Heiyi ing winced Pies 381 
Haberdine pyes’ > Ibid. 
Hogs feet jellied 20£ 


Hern; to i ana te thems 


458 

ye cryfal 202 
Felly of feveral colours 
[bids 


Fell as white as {now 205. 


Jellies for fouces 206 
Jelly of harts-horn 207 


Yelly for a conlumption Tbid,. 


Jelly for a confumptror Bb 48 


ungs | 

Jelly for weal i in Ve | 
back: 208 
Fumballs . 271 
ltalian chips 273 
nee (275 

Ams bead boit di 35. 


Lambs head in brass 
‘broib ‘ 
Lambs Sones fiyed 


134 
168 | 
Laid 


a Cy a eee * 
MT Se 


\Maremaid pye 


Land or Sea foul ied 7 
Leach with Vigan i 5 
Lamprey how to ee 347 
’ or 

Links how to mae | 
Lemons pickled = 
Loaves buttered 428 
Lump baked 363 
Ling pyes 2 381 
Lobfters ftemed 401 
via He halhed 402 
hiro baked 403 
Lobfters farced Ibid 
Lobfters marinated 404 
Lobfters broild . Ibid 
Lobfters roafted 405 
Lobfters fryed 406 
Lobfters baked Ibid 
Lobfters pickled 408 
Lobfers Bee Ibid 


23, 24 
220,221 
Made difh of wae 270 
Made difh of Sprnage 262 
Made dilh of pies oe 
Made dilh of Frogs 264 
Made ath of marrow Ibid. 
Made difh of rice Ibid. 


Made difh of Blanchmanger 


266 


" Mutton or Veal flewed 15 
r Me? byes 344.5 
ae Marrow Puddings 





768 
Made dsfh of sine P aipids 
Made ash of Oyfters 396 
Marchpane 267 
6 Mead 275 
Metheglin — 276 
Mackeroons ae 
Melacatoons baked = 25 
Melacatoons preferved 252 
Medlar tart | 


246 
Mizced pies of Veal, Mutton 
Beef, &c. 232 


. Minced pyes in the Ves 


falbton 


233 
. Minced pies in the Italian 


falhton ; « bid 
Mutton Legs farced 30 


. Mutton fhoulder hafhed 58 


Mutton fhoulder roafted 137 
138 


Mutton fhoulder flewed 78 
Mutton or veal ftewed 51,52 
Mutton chines bold 11512, 
Mutton carbonadoed 66 
Mutton bold . 49, 50 


Muftard how to make - 
Mauftard of Dijon Tht 
Mauftardin cakes 15,7 
Mufquedines 276 
Mallet fouc’t 340 
Mullet marinated 341% 

Aullet 








Mullet lyoiPa 342 


| Mallet fryed 343 
Mullet baked Ibid. 


Mufhrooms fryed 397 


ulerooms tn the Italtay 
Ok Ibid. 
MMilbrooms ftewed 398 
Malbrooms brald 399 


Muskles fewed ACO 
Miushles fryed 4OI 
Muskie Pyes Tid 


: N. | 
\, [cats tongue boil d 42,43 
Neats tongue in frof- 
_ fado : 106 
Neats tongues flewed id: 
WNeats tongues in Brodo lar- 
dievo IO9 


Nears tongue roafted 110’ 


Neats tongue hafbed ao, 4. 
WNeats tongue bak’t 111, 112 
Neats feet larded and roaft- 


ed 
Norfolk fool, - 
\ 110 Podvida I 


Olines of Beef 118 
Olines of a Leg of Veal 


7 tt tak 3 i fal One “ty 
“rae 


Te The eable 





way Gs 3 : 3 
Oyfters femed otherways 384, 


Oyffer pottage 385 


Oyfters hafhed 
Oyfters marinated — 386 


Oyfers in foffadd = 387 — 


Oyftersjellted 388 
Oy fers pickled Ibid. 
Oyfers fouc't | 389 
Oyfters roafted 390 
Oyfters broil 39r 
Ovfrers fryed ' 39% | 
Oyfrers bakéd — =p eae 
Oyfrer mince pies 395 
Oxe cheeks bold =o 


Oxe cheeks in ftoffada 98 
Oxe cheeks Laked == 218 


P; 
Artridgehafhed 60 
Partridge how to feed 
them. 46 
Paftehow to makeit 256 
Pafte royal 257 


aye 
Pajte for made difhes 12 Lent 


cr, ame. ‘Ibid. 
Puff-pafte 
Pafe of Violets, Cow/lips, 

ee j 


26 7 


142 a : 

Oline pyé 225 Paste for a Coxfumption 45 3 
Olines how to feed them 460. Pallets of Oxe how to drels 
Oatmeal Caudle == -423 them 100’ 
Onleis of Eggs 430, 431 Pallit pottage 103 
Onions buttered A26 Rene rofted + YJpid. 
: . ober Pal 





Oyfters flewed the Ser 4 ° 


25 7) 25 S 


‘ ; Pigeons boil'd 









Pewets to nourilh them 458 
— Pheafants bow to feed hee 


461 
Pheafant baked 214 
Pinemolet 
Pre exty aordinary,or a bie 
bye 234 
Pre of pippins 242 


Pippins preferved 244. 
Pig roafted with hair oni4s 
Pig roafted otherways 146 
Pre fouc’t 194. 
Pigjellied 196 
Pig diftilled againft a Con- 

_fumption 


ASI 
6 

~ Pigeons baked f ae 
Prke boil’d = 39, 320 
 Prke frewed 323 
Prke hafhed 324 
 Peke fouc’t 325 
Pike jelled 326,327 
Pike roafted 328 
329 


Pike fried 


as The S Table, , | 

| Pallets in Gelliae 103 Pike helt he ee 

Pallets jer 104 Pike bakt 3 39 
Pancakes 174. Plumb cream | 
Panadbes 424. Plaice bald or fewed 
Pap | 2 a Plovers how to feed themas 9 
Peafe tarts 5 Pork boil'd 167, 168 
Peafe cod difh in Puff ple Pork voafted | oe 

263 Pottages asa 

Peafe pottage 421 Pottage in the frome Pb 
Peaches preferved 252 


Pottage without any fis eh i 
herbs 


Pottage called shink _ i ‘. 
Pottage of ellicksanders 421% 
g Pottageofontons 422 
Pottage of almonds ~— Ybid. 
Pottage of grewel ‘Aig 
Pottage of rice - 420 
Pottage of milk Ibid. 
Potatoes baked 261 
Portugal tarts for Mech id 
tings 267 
Poffet how to make it 292 
Poffet of Sack 293 
Poe Pa 424. 
offet {imple 4g 
Poffet of herbs Ibid. 
Puffs the French way Ibid. 
Prawns ftewed AOI 


Preferved green frutts 255 
Pudding of feveral forts 21,- 
32503 3 


Pudding of Turkey-or - 
Put. 


I 
Hl 





ek eye 
£ : a ‘ 
y r : » { 
‘ 


OR RE FO ed ae oo aa AR a eee 


wpe te So) a ar i a pt ape ar cee Ny crit ee Se bared Pe ESS Al La ieee ee 
vi ~ + ‘ ae xy a. 





The Table. 
Puddings of Liver 26 Quinces buttered = 427 
Puddings of heifers udder ib. Quodling pye 249 
Puddings black 126,190 Quatls how to feed themabr - 
Pudding in a breaft of eo ae R. 4 
: : 140, 185 sberies preferu'd 254, 
Pudding boifd 199 R 


Pudding of creas 178 
Pudding of fweet herbs ibid 


Pudding in haft 179 
Pudding quaking Ibid. 
Pudding (baking 180 
Pudding of rice 182 
Pudding of cinamon 183 
Pudding haggas 25,183 


Pudding cheveridge bid. 
Pudding liveridge 84 


Pudding of fran or goofe Ib. 


Pudding of wine 1n guts185 
Pudding in the Italian Ea- 

(hion 186 
Pudding the French way Ib. 
Pudding of freine lights 187 


Pudding of oatmeal Ibid. 
Pudding pyes of oatmeal 188 
~ Pudding baked 189 
Puddings white 1gI 


Pallets feed againft a Con- 


— fumption ASI 
 Pyramides cream 286 
SQ Uuinces pickled 163 
| Q: - Quince pyes * 240 
Qatncetarts 241 
2 uince cream 278 





{ 
| 
if 
i 
1 
, 
4 
i 
H 


Reftorative for a wea 


Rabbits bathed 48,5 
kR back 


455 
Rice tart 245 
Rice cream - 285 
Rice buttered 428 
Roots farced 27 

Auce for greengecfe 92 
S Sauce for bes fowl 93 

151 


Sauce for roaft mutton 139 
Sauce for roaft veal 


I 
Sauce for red deey — Ibid. 
Sauce for Rabbits LAS 
Sauce for Hens 149,150 
Sauce for Chickens 150 
Sauce for Pidgeons 151 
Sauce for a Goole 152 
Sauce for a Duck Ty 
Sauce for a Sea Fowl Ibid ‘ 


Sauce for roaft Salmon 338 


Sanfages 36,37;.05 =: 
Saufages Bolonia : 1 27 
Saujage for jelly 208 


Sallet grand of minc’t fowlgz 
Sallet grand of divers com- 


pound 1§8,159, 160 
Sallet of fourvy grafi - 61 
Ii 3 Sallet 








At Fc. Wyss 3 ey ae 
Bisa a 7) alee 4 J 
es b: LC AY PRO ety Nabi wane i iD $M 
Chit oh . 3 ta) Tha oh Ma te 
Beg bee ' Sea Sua Ra aie ee cae eo pia 
ait amarante mth ke + mah Manni - by a ees = 
ro Say he toe Cen re Sa Sey a 7 
The Table. 





Meier of elixander buds 462 
<£och collops of mutton 59 


* Yalmon calvered 338 
ke fas 232. 
Salmon pickled 333 
Salmon halbed Ibid, | 
Salmon marinated 334 
Salmon in ftoffado Ibid 
almon fryed 335 
Salmon voafted 339 


, Sabnon broil d or voafted in 


frofado, 33% 
Salon baked 338 
Salmon, chewits, or minced 

pyes 390 
Salwon Lumber pye 340 
Sack cream — 283 
Stone cream 284 
Sow cream 279 
Scallops fewed 400 
Sea fowl bak'd 215 


_ Silabub an excellent way295 


Shell bread 274 
Szails frewed A15 

— Swailsfryed 216 
Svatls hafhed Ibid 
Snatls in pottage 47 
Siaile back'd 418 
Szites bold — 62 
Soals boil’d 363 

| Soals flemed 364 
Soals fouc'd 365 
Soals jellted’ Ibid. 
Soals roafted 366 





Sweet-hread pies 











Saops of pinage oF 
Soaps of carrots | 
Soops of artichocks Ibid 


Souce veal, lamb, or mutton 


Se : . 198 
Sparagus to keep all the year 


3 | 210 
Sparagus buttered 427 
Spinage tart 247 
Steak pye 226 


Steak pyes the french way227 


Stvawberry tart — 246 
Stargeon botl'd 367 
Sturgcon buttered 368 
Sturgeon halhed Ibid 
Sturgeon marinated . Ibid 
Sturgcon farced 369 
Sturgeon whole tn ftoffado ib 
Stargeon fouct . 370 
Sturgeon. brold Ibid 
Stugeon fryed 371 
Sturgeon roafted Ibid 
Sturgeon olines of tt biel 


Sturgeon baked 373,374 


, colo ae 
. Sturgeon minct ptes376 537 
7 Sturgeon lumber pie. 378 


Sturgeon oline pie 379 
Sturgeon baked with far- 
C1ngs Ree site 
Sturgeon olta 389 
Sugar.plate. . 27l 
Swans how to fat them a58 

/ 238 


Tanfey 





“pase oy pe to make 174. 
Taffety tart 246 
‘Tart ruff of feveral colours 
249, 250, 251 
Tortellt, or ltttle \pafftes 
$3, 84 
Tofts how to make Doe 175 
Toafts ctnamon 
Toafts the French way Ibid 
Tortoife how to drefs it 414 
Tripes how to drefs themt27 


Trotter ie 242 
Triffel how to makeit 292 
Turki(h difh of meat 116 
‘Turkey baked 214 


Turkies how to fat them 458 
Turbut bold 

Turbut fouc t Ibid. 
Turbut frewed us fryed 346 


Fal breaft farced 20 

Veal breaft bald bid. 

Veal breaft roafted 14! 

Veal beaft, loin, -or hss me 
a 


ke 
Veal leg boil'a I me : 


s i eae | rey Og Ta ay 


The Table. 


3 


Veal leg farced 
Veal chines build 10 
Veal loin roafed 14I 
Veal broild — 167. 
Veal halhed 44. 
Veal farced 28, 29,31 
Venton broild 168 
Venifon tainted how to 9 
Serve tt 230,232 
Udders baked 124 


Verjuyce how to make 1t156 


a tomake it = «154 
Rofe Vinegar 155 
Pepper Vineger Ibid. 
Umble pies 231 
\ T Arden tarts 245 
Wager for a Confum~ 

ption : 
Woel to make tt 296 
Wheat-ears how to feed ee 
461 

Whip cream 284 
Wheat leach of cream 285 
White-pot to makeit 295 


5 Woodcocks boil'd 62,86 
Woodcocks roafted 148 





FINIS. 


fae? § Per ee ee ee! 
nih Kime ant te 








ae 3 


Book Prissted fo Obadiah pidge a the Black 
Bear ia St, Pauls Church-Yard, are, ew 


O8or Gell’s Baa th being fundry pious and iar Notes 
~ and Obfervations on the whole New Teftament Opening and 
‘Explaining all the Difficulties therein 3. wherein our Saviour Jefus 
-Chrift is: yelterday to day, and the fame for ever. Tlluftrated by that 
Lear ned and Judicious Man Dr.Robert. Gell Regtor of Mary Aldermary, 
London, iti Folio. 
Chriftian Religions Appeal ae the groundlets prejudice of the 
Scepticks to the, Bar of conimon Reafon; Wherein is proved that the 
_Apoftles did not deludethe World. 2. Nor were themfelves deluded 
3. Scripture matters of Faith have the beft evidence. 4. The Divi- 
nity.of Scripture is as demonftrable as rhe being ofa Deity. By ohn 
Smith Reétor of St. Afary in Colch efter, in Folio. 

* An Expofition on the Ten Commandments and the Lords Prayer. 
By Mr. Edward Elton, in 4° 

Saint Clemont the Blefled Apottl e St.Paul’s Fellow Lateran’ in the 
Gofpel, his Route to the Corinth. ms Tranflated ont of the Greek, 
“in | ‘ 
A Sermon Preached before the King at Wind/or Caftle. By Richard 
Meggot,D. D. in 4° 

A Sermon Preached before the Right Honourble the Lord Mayor 

and Aldermen of the City of London, hag: t he 30th. 1674. By Ri- 
‘chard Megzot, D.D. in 4°. 

A Sermon Preached to the Artillery Company at St. Mary Le Bow, 


y 


| Sept. 13. 1676. By Richard Mezgot, D. D. in 4°. 


| The Cafe of Fora: a Sermon “Preached before rhe Houfe of Peers 
an the Abby-Church at Weftminfter, Jee 30.1674. By Seth Ward 
Lord Rifhop of Sarum. 

‘A Sermon Preached at the Funeral of Gesrge Lord General Monk, 
By Seth Ward Lord Bifhop of Sarum, 1n 4°. 
; A Sermon Preached at the Funeral of that faithful Servant of 
Chrift Dr. Robert Breton, Paftor of Debtford-in the Cony of Kens, 
on Matth, 24. 36. By Rich. Parr, D. D. of Camberwell inthe County 
of Surrey, in 4°. 
. Weighty Reafons for tender and Confciencious Proteftants to 
be in Union and Cometnnion with the Church of England, and nor 
to forfake the publick Aflemblies, as the only means to prevent the 
Growth of Tone yes ; infeveral Sermons on I Cor. 1. 10 ti ye all 


ol 


SI hee * 
we . Ld b> eet 


i 


Loe le SENS OES ST a Sea 
~ at the Black, Bear in St.Pauls Church-yard. 


re ———————— 





fpeak the fame thingsjand that there be no divifions among you, but that ye - 


be perfeétly joyned together in the fame Mind,and in the fame’ Fudgment,on 
iHeb.10.25. not forfaking the Affembling of our felves together, as 
the manner of fome is 5 in 8° large. a, Fae OP 

The Pfalms of King David paraphrafed, and turned into Englifh 
Verte; according to the common’ Meetre, as they are ufudlly Sung 
in parifh Churches, by Miles Smith; in 8° large. a4 

The Evangelical Communicant in the Euchariftical Sacrament, or 
a Treatife declaring who is fit to receive the Supper: of the Lord, by 
Philip Goodwin in 8°. ESCH an 
‘ A Treatife of the Sabbath-day,fhewing how it fhould be fan&tified 
by all perfons, by Philip Goodwin, M. A. Jide: ; 

A Fountain of Tears,empying it felf into three Rivulets, viz. Of 
Compunétion,Compafiicn, Devotion 3 or Sobs of Nature fandtified by 
GraceLanguaged in feveral Soliloquies and prayers upon various Sub- 
jects, for the benefit ofall chat are in Affliction, and particularly for 
thefe prefent times, by Fohn Featley, Chaplain to His Majefty. 

A Courfe of Carechifing, or the Marrow ofall Authors as have 
Writ or Commented on the Church Catechifm 3 in 8°. 

A more fhorter Explanation of the Church Catechifin, fitted for 
the meaneft capacity in 8°.price 2 d. by Dr. Combar. 

The Life and Death of that Reverend Divine Dr.Fuller, Author of 
the Book calledthe holy War and State; in 8°, 

Fons Lachrymavum, or a Fountain of Tears; from whence doth 
flow Englands complaint, Zeremiab’s Lamentations, paraphrafed with 

Divine meditations, by Fohn Quarles; in 8°. 

Gregory Father Grey-beard with his Vizard pull’d off,or News from 

the Cabal, in fome Retle&tions upon a late Book, entituled, The Re- 


bearfal Tran{profed after the fafhion it now obtains; in a Letter | 


to Mr Roger L’Efirange; in 8°. 
.. Grounds and: occafions of the Contempt of the Clergy with the 
feverall Anfwers to Hobbs. 

A good Companion, or a Meditation upon Death, by Wilam 
Winftandly 5 in 12°s.' 


Sele& Thoughts, or Choice Helps for a Pious Spirit,a Century of » 
Divine Breathings for a Ravifhed Soul, beholding the excellency of 


her Lord Jefus: To which is added the Breathings of the Devout 
Soul,by Fof. Hall Bifhop of Norwich ; in 12° A 

_ The Remedies of Difcontent,or a Treatife of Contentation ; very 
‘fit for thefe perfent times; by Fof. Hall Bifhop of Norwich 5 in 12° 


AR admired piece of Phyfiognomy and Chyromancy,Ma tapofco- 
pacy, the Symmetrical proportions and SignalMoles of the Bo- 
Oe an aay ag . dy 


~ 





ia = a Ve “ye oy N Kai Higa eae piety Mi dads V Ok Ras tessa’ AOS SE " re i pombe de Dunas - EPR A. Se tee) re ¥ ie Oe Soe 
i - oP ted sce Neg “ vee LU ae? +e *t 9 5 
* ' ; r L- oy Na eas t MEMS Siri ea A 7 


i is 


all forts of Brewing Veffes: whereunto is added a fhort Synopfis a 





+ 





Books Sold by Obadiah Blagrave, 





dy fully and accurately explained, with their Natural predidive 


fignifications both to Menand Women, being delightful and profita-. 
ble 5 with the Subject of of Dreams made plain: Whereunto is 
added the Art of Memory, by Richard Saunders ; in folio: Mluftrated 
with Cuts and Figures. 

The Sphere of Marcus Manelis made an Englifh Poem; with 
Learned Annotations, and along Appendix: reciting the Names 
of Ancient and Modern Aftronomers; with fome thing memorable 
of oem ; Iluftrated wich Copper-Cuts. By Edward Sherborne Eqs 
in Folio. 

- Obfervations upon Military and Political Affairs: Written by 
the moit Honourable George Duke of Albemarle ; in Folio: Publifh- 


“ed by Authority. 


Modern Fortification, or the Elements of Military Architecture, 
practcifed and defigned by the lateft and moft i eeaaad Engineers 
of this laft Age, Italian, French, Dutch and Englifh ; and the manner 
of Defending and Befieging Forts and Places: with the ufe ofa Joynt 
Ruler or Sector,for the fpeedy defcription of any. Fortification 5 by 
Sir Fonas Moore Knight, Mafter Surveyor. 

* A General Treatife of Artillery or Great Ordnance :Writ in Itali- 
an by Toma({o Morety of Brefeia,Engineer;firft to the Emperor,and now 
to the moft ferene Republick of Vénice, tranflated intoEnglifh, with 
Notes thereupon ; and fome addition out of French for Sea-Gunners, 
By Sir Jonas Moore Knight: Wich an Appendix of Artificial Fire- 
works of War and Delight ;by Sir Abraham Dager Knight, Engineer: 
Wluftraced with divers Cuts. ~ 7 
- A Mathematical Compendium, or Ufeful Practices in Arithmetick, 
Geometry and Aftronomy,Geography and Navigation, Embatteling ' 
and Quartering of Armies, Fortifications and Gunnery, Gauging and 
Dialling ; explaining the Loyerthius with new Judices, Napers, 
Rhodes or Bones, making of Movements, and the Application of 
Pendulums:With the projection of the Sphere for an Univerfal Dial, 
By Sir Fonas Moore Knight. | 

- The Works of that moft excellent Philofopher and Aftronomer 


Sir George Wharton Baronet :giving an account of all Fafts and Fefti- 


vals, Obfervations in keeping Eafter , Apotele/ma, or the Nativityfof 
the World of the Epoche and Ere ufed by Chronologers: A Dif- 
courfe of Years, Months,and. days of years 5 of Eclipfes andEfle&s of 
the Crifes inDifeafes:With an excellent difcourfe of the names,Genus , 
Species, efficient and final.caufes of all Comets; how Aftrology may 
be reftored from Morinus ; in 8° large, cum multis alin. : 
The PraGical Gauger, being a plain and eafie method of Gauging 


the 


¢ 


Pee ee oe eee Ral , Ee sttdl sere a a" > ee 


at the Black Bear iz St.Pauls Church-yard. _ 


the Laws of Excife: The third Edition,with Addittiens : By Fobn 
‘Mayne. 

A Table for purchafers of Eftates, either Lands or Houfes; by 
William Leybourne. 

Blagrave’s introduction to Aftrology,in Three parts 5 containing 
the ufe of an Ephemerides, and how to erect a Figure of Heaven to 
any time propofed ; alfo the fignification of the Houfes,Planets,Signs 
and Afpects ; the explanation of all ufeful rerms of Art: With plain 
and familiar InftruCtions for the Refolution of all manner of Quefti- 
ons, and exemplified inevery particular thereof by Figures fet and 
judged. The Second treateth of Eleétions, fhewing their Ufe and 
Application as they are conftitured on the Twelve Celeftial Houfes, 
whereby you are enabled to choofe fuch times as are proper and con- 
ducible to the perfeG@tion of any matter or bufinefs whatfoever. The 
third comprehendeth an abfolute remedy for rectifying and judging 
Nativities3 the fignification and portance of DireGions: with new 
and experienced Rulestcuching Revolutions and Tranfits, by 7e. 
pera of Reading Gent. Student in Aftrology and Phyfick; in 8° 
far ge. : 

. Blagrave’s Aftrological Practice of Phyfick; difcovering the true 
way to Cure all kinds of Difeafes and Infirmitieswhich are natu- 
rally incident to the Body of Man ; in 8° large. 

. Gadbury’s Ephemerides for thirty years, twenty whereof is yet to 
come and unexpired 5 1n 4°. 

_ Philofophy delineated, confifting of divers Anfwers upon feveral 
Heads in Philofophy, firft drawn up for the fatisfaction of fome 





Friends,now expofed to. publick View and Examination; by Wiliam 


Mar(hail Merch. London ; in 8° large. 

The Natural Hiftory. of Nitre,or a Philofophical Difcourfe of rhe 
Nature, Generation,place ‘and Artificial Extraction of Nitre,with its 
Virtues and Ufes, by William Clerke M. Doctorum Londinenjis. 
The Sea-mans Tutor, explaining Geometry, Cofmography and 
Trigonometry,with requifite Tables of Longitude and Latitude of 
Sea-ports, Travers Tables, Tables of Eafting and Wefting, meridian 
miles,Declinations, Amplitudes,refractions, ufe of the Compafs, Ka- 
lender, meafure of the Earth Globe, ufe of Inftruments, Charts, 
ditferences of Sailing, eftimation of a Ship-wayby the Log,and Log- 
Line Currents. Compofed for the ufe of the Mathematical School in 
Chrifts Hofpital London, his Majefties Charles I. his Royal Foun- 
dation. By Peter Perkins Mafterof that School. 


~ Plat form for Builders and a guide for purchafers by Mr. Leyborne. 


Mr. Nich 


SL aa (ee 4 Te SRE UALR, co Bh le ae a eR oe ay Viel f 
Ys F \ roy : eA ah Cpe 






ee ee 
= os 


i "Fede Sold 7A Obadiah oh ae 


w le 





Mr Te Culpeppers laft Legacy, left and. bequeathed to his 
deareft Wife for the publick good, being the choiceft 
ead moft profitable of thofe fecrets, which while he lived were 
locked up in his Breaft,and refolved never to publifh them till after 
his death, containing fundry admirable experiments in Phyfick and 
Chyrurgery.The fifth Edition, with the Addition ofanew Tra& of 


‘the Anatomy of the Reins and Bladder, in 8°. Large. 


Mr. Nich. Culpeppers Judgmenc | of Difeafes,called Symoteca Uranica 5 
alfoa Treacife of Urine. A Work ufeful for all that ftudy Phyfick, 


in 8°. Large. 


~ 


Mr. Nich. Culpepper’s School of Phyfick, or the experimental Pra- 
aife of the whole Art,wherein are contained all inward Difeafes 
from the Head to the Foot, with their proper and effe@ual Cures, 
Such dyet fet down as ought to be obferved in ficknefs and in 
health, in 8°. Large. 

The Compleat Midwifes praéife Enlarged, in the moft weighty | 
and high concernment of the birth of man, containing a perfe& Di- 
rectory or Rules for Midwives and Nurfes 5 as alfo a Guide for Wo- 
men in their Conception, Bearing and Nurfing of Children from the 


- experience of our Englifh, viz. Sir Theodoret MayrnDr. Chamberlain, 
Mr. Nich, Culpepper, withthe Inftruati ons of the Queen of Frances 


Midwife to’ her Dangheer in 8°.Large, Illuftrated with feveral Cuts 
of Brafs. 

Blagraves fupplimentor ooliny: tee to Mr.Nich.Culpeppers Eniglifh 
Pavhtast containing a defcription of the form,place and time,Cele- 
itial Government ofall {uch Plants as grow in England,and are omit- 
ged in his Book called the Englifh Phyfitian, Printed in the fame 
Volume, fe as it: may be bound with the gee Phyfician, in 8° 
Large. 

De Succo pancveatico, ora Phyaeal and Anatomical Treatife of the 
nature and office of the Panecratick Juyce or Sweet-Breadin men, 
fhewing its generation in the Body, what Difeafes arife by its Vifi-. 
tation; rogether with the Caufes and Cures of Agues and incermit- 


- ting Fevers, hitherto fo difficult and uncertain, with feveral other 


things worthy of Note.Written by that famous Phyfirian D. Reg de 
Graff. Hluftraced with divers Cuts in Brafssin 8°, Large. - 

Great Venus unmaskt, being a full difcovery of the French Pox or 
Venereal Evil.By Gidion Harvey M. D.in 8°. Large. > 
The Anatomy of Con{umptions,the Nature and Caufes, SubjeG@,Pro- 
grefs,Change, Signs, Prognoftications, Prefervatiors and feveral me- 
thods in Curing Confumptions, Coughs ‘and Spitting of Blood ; 
together with a Difcourfe of’ the Plague. ‘By Gidian Harvey, in 8°, 


rate 
Eleuchus 


A HU, RNS eg 


er Ng STS ce he. HS Gar adi ate ae ae RS oa EG gM NA 
U4) Maran he i i Aa ane a 2a ; 
. 





ns wire >, 





"atthe Black Bear é St. Pauls Church-yard. 





Elcuenés ot Opinions concerning the Small Pox; by Tobias Whitaker 
Phyfician to his Majefty 7 together with problemical queftions con- 
cerning the Cure of the French Pox 3 in 12°. 

_ Praxis Catholica, or the Country-mans univerfal Remedy,wherein 

1s ae fet down che nature of ail Difeafes with their Remedies; 

in 8°, Fe ie 
The Queens Cloter opened, incomparable fecrets in Phyfick and’ 

Chyrurgery, Preferving, Conferving and Canding; which was pres 

fented unto the Queen by the moft expericnced perfons of their 

times 5 in 12° Large. . 
The Gentlemans fockie and approved Farrier 5 inftru@ing in the 

Nature; Caufes; and Cures of all Difeafes incident to Horfes,with an 

exact method of Breeding, Buying,Dieting,and other ways of order- 

ing all forts of Horfes; in 8°..La-ge, 
The Country mans Treafure,{hewing che Nature,Caufe and Cure of 

all Difeafes incident to Catrel, viz.Oxen, Cows and Calves, Sheep,’ 

Hogs and Dogs,with proper means to prevent their common Difeafes 

and Diftempers being very ufeful receits,as they have been practifed 

Py the long experience of forty years; by ames Lambert, in8% 

Large. : | 

Syncfoyle Improved, a difcourfe fhewing the utility and benefir 

which England hath and may reccive by the Grafs called Syncfoyle, 

and anfwering all objeGtions urged apainft it 5 in 4°. a 


+ 


| )Haramond:. that famed Romance, being the Hiftory of France,in 
twelve Parts ; by the Author of Cleopatra and CajJandra 5 Folio, 
Parthenifja chat famed Romance. : 
A fhort Hiftory of the lare Englifh Rebellion; by 44,Needham,in 4°. 
_ The Ingenious Satyr againft Hypocrites 5 in 4°. ‘ 
Wits Interpreter, the Englifh Parna[fus, ora fure guidetothofe 
admirable accomplifhments that conipleat the Englifh Gentry,in the 
moft acceptable qualifications of Difcourfe or Writting; in which’ 
briefly the whole myftery of thofe pleafing Witchcrafts of Eloquence 
and Love are made eafie,in divers tras 3 in 8°. Large. 

_ Myfteries of Love and Eloquence, or the Art of Wooing and Com- ; 
plementing,as they are managed in the Spring-Garden, Hide-Park,and. 
other places ; in 8°. Large. | 

_ The maiden-head loft by Moon-light, or the Adventnre of the 
Meadow ; by Fofeph Kepple, in 4°. 

Vercingerixa, a new Dro!l; compofed on occafion of the pretend- 
ed German Princes, in 4°. 
Meronides, or Virgils Traverftry,being anew Paraphrafe upon ar 
é r 


5 
5: 
i 
4 
4 
Rea; 


f 


~ 








___ Books Sold by Obactial Blag 


th and fixth Book of Virgils Aineas in Burlefque verfe ; by the 
Author of the Satyr againft Hypocrites. © 
The Poems of Sir Aaftin Corkin, together with his Plays seollected 
imone Volume, in 8°. ate : * 
Gerania, a new Difcovery of a little fort of People called Pigmies 
with a lively difcription of their ftature, habit manners, buildings, 





Knowledge and Government 5 by fofhua Barns, of Emmanuel Col- 


ledge in Cambridge,in 8°. 3 











: 


The Woman is as good as the Man,or the equality of both Sexes : 


Written originally in French, and tranflated in to Englifh, 

The Memoirs of Madam Mary Carltm, commonly called the Ger= 
man Prince{s 5 being a Narrative of her Life and Death,interwoven 
with many ftrangeand pleafant paffages,from the time of her Birch 
to her Excuution ; 1n 2°. 


Cleaveland’s Genuine Poems, Orations, Epiftles, purged from mas _ 


ny falfe and fpurious ones which had ufurped his name. To which 
is added many never before printed or publifhed, according to the 
Author‘s own Copies 5 with a Narrative of his Life,in 8°. large, 
Newly Reprinted the exquifite Letters of Jfr.Robart Loveday,the late 
admired Tranflater of the three firft Volumes, of C/eopatra,publifhed' 
by his Brother Mr,Anthony Loveday, in 8°. large. ted 
_ Troades, a Tranflation out of Seneca 5 in 8°. Ag 
Wallographea, .or the Britain defcribed, being a Relation of 4 
pleafant Journey into Wales ; wherein are fet down {feveral re- 
markable paflages that occurred in the way thither 5 and alfo many 
choice obfervables, and notable commemorations concerning the 
ftate and condition, the nature and humour, Actions, Manners and’ 
Cuftoms of that Country and People, in 8°. . 
Wic and Drollery, Jovial poems,corrected and amended with new’ 
Additions 5 in 8° large. . 
. Adaga Scholica, or a ColleGion of Scotch Proverbs and Prover-' 
bial phrafes, in 12°. very ufeful and delightful. 


A Treatife of Taxes and Contributions, fhewing the Nature — 


and Meafures of Crown Lands, Affefiments, Cuftoms, Poll-monies,’ 


Lotteries,Benevolence, Penalty Monopolies, Offices, mc ria sts? : 


of Coines,Hearth-money, Excife, and with feveral interfperft Di 


courfes and Digreffions concerning Wars, the Church Univerfitiess: 


Rents, and Purchafes, Ufury and. Exchange, Banks and Lumbards, 
_Regifters for Conveyances, Buyers, Infurances,Exportation of Money 


and Wool, Free Ports Coynes HoufingLiberty of Confcience:by Sir 


William Pette Knight, in 4° ; ie 
England decribed through the feyeral Counties and a 
theres 


at the Black Bear ix St. Paul's Church-yard. 


Fe pete: cay) : s 
thereof, briefly handled ; fome things alfo premifed to {er forth 
the Glory of this Nation, by Edward Leigh,Efq,; 








Englands Worthies, Sele& Lives of the moft eminent perfons 


from Conftantine down to this prefent year 1684. by William Win- 
ftandly Gent. in 8° large. ! | 
_ The Glories and Trimuphs of his Majefty King Charles the Se- 
cond, being a Colle&ion of all Letters, Speeches, and all other 
choice paflages of State fince his Majefties return from Breda, till 
after his Coronation, in 8° large. 

The Portugal Hiftory, detcribing the faid Country, with the Cu- 
{toms and Ufes among them,in 8° large. | 


A New Survey of the Tnrkifh Government compleated,with di- 
vers Cuts, being an exaé and abfolute difcovery of what is worthy ° 


of knowledge, or any way fatisfa&ory to Curiofity in that mighty 
Nation, in 8° large. 

- The Antiquity of China, or an Hiftorical Effay, endeavouring 
a probability, that the Language of the Empire of China, is the pri- 
mitive Language fpoken through the whole world before the Confu- 


fion of Babel ; wherein the Cuftoms and Manners of Chineans are _ 


prefented, and Ancient and Modern Authors confulred with. 
Illuftrated with a large Map of the Country, in 8° large. © 

An Impartial Defcription of Surynham upon the Continent of 
Guiana in America 5 witha Hiftory of feveral ftrange Beafts, Birds, 
Fifhes, Serpents, Infe@s and Cuftoms of that Colony, in 4°. 

Ethece Chriftiane, or the School of Wifdom. It was dedicated 
tothe Duke of Monmouthin his younger years, 1n12°. 
' The Life and A@tions of the late renowned Prelate and Souldier 


Chriftopher Bernard Van Gale Bifhop of Munfter, in 8°. 7 igh 


The Conveyancers Light, or the Compleat Clerk and Scriveners 
Guide, being an exact draught of all Precedents and Aflu- 


rances now in ufe,likewife the Forms of all Bills, Anfwers and Plea~ 


dings in Chancery,as they were penned by divers Learned Judges, 


Eminent Lawyers,and great Conveyancer:,bothAncient and Modern,” 


in 4° large. 


The Priviledges and Pra@tices of Parliaments in England,Colle&ted 


out of the Common Law of this Land, in 4°. 


_ALetrer from Oxford concerning the approaching Parliamenc™ 
_then called, 1681. in vindication of the King, the Church, and’ 


 Univerfities, 4°. | : 
Brevia Parliamentaria Rediviva, in 13 Sections; containing 


- feveral Catalognes of the numbers and dates of all Bundles of Ori- 


- ginal Writs of Summons and Elections that are now in the Tower of 
. London, in. 4°. 


The 


Py tl 
EY 












taining. the proper. gn rt iCdtior -tymologies 
erived from: other Languages, viz. Hebrew,Arabick, Syriack "S eks, - 
‘Latin, Iralian, French, Spanith, Britifh, Dutch, Saxon, ‘ufeful oe | a 
advancement of our Englifh Tongue ; together. with the definiti- — : 
on of all thofe terms that conduce to the underftanding of the Arts, ; 
sand. | Scietices, VIZ. ‘Theology, Philofophy, Logick, Rhetorick, Gram, _ 
ap mar, Ethic, Law, Magick, ‘Chyrurgery, | Anatomy, Chymiftry y, Bo lg ; 
_ hicks, Arichmetick, Geometry, Aftronomy, ‘Aftrology, Phyfiog . 
omy, Ch romanicy, ‘Navigation, Fortification, iS 5 .cumn multis. 7 
alin, in fol. |; : 
Cockers new. Copy-Book, or Englands :-Pén- mab, being all the. i 
curious ‘Hands engraved on 28 Brafs plates, in. folig. ...". a 
Sir Robert Stapleton’s Tranflation of Jornal Satyr; with Anno- 
Boe, tations thereon, in: eat 
eo The Rudiments of the Latine Tongue.by a method: of Vocabblary. i 
! and Grammar ; the former comprifing the Primicives, whetherNoun | 
Ot Verb,ranked in their feveral Cafes; the latrer teaching the forms. 
gets of Declenfion and Conjugation, with all pofiible plainnefs : To ‘which . 
“) Fs ‘added the Hermonicon, viz. A . Table of thofe Latin words, 
which their found and fignification being meerly refembled by,, the 
‘Englith are the fooner learned thereby, for the ufe of, Merchants : 
Taylors School, in 8° large... 73 
| Indiculis Univer falis, or “thie whole Univerfein Epitomie, wherein 
«0 the names of almott all the’ works of Nature, of all Arts. and. a 
e. -. ‘Sciences, and their moft neceffary termis are in Englifh, Latin and: 
French methodically. digefted, in 8° large. 
Farnaby-s Notes on Fucinal and Perfiws in. 12°. 
‘ _ Clavis Grammatica, or the ready way to the “Latin. ‘Tongue,, 
ont: ning as plain demonftrarions for che regular” ‘Tranflating F 
se elit nto Latin, wich inftructions. how to ‘conftrue and parle . 
Wee. ‘Angone fel for fuch as. would attain to the, Latin Tongue, byt “ 
aaa ‘B. Schoolmafter. : 
. The-Englifh Orator, or -Rhetorical Defcents by way of de 
damation upon fome notavle Themes, both Hiftorical ahd Phi- 
loge in 8°. 












oe 


ADVE RTIS E MENT. 
Here is fold by ‘the faid Obadiah Blagrave, a’ Water of jie ae a 
excellent Nature and Operation, for prefervation of the Eyes.that the 
E ye being’ but wafhed therewith once or, twice a day, it not’ only takes. 
oe aedy al bot Rhames and) Inflamations, but aljo preferveth the Eye after a 
~ thofk wonder ful manner x a Secret which was ufed by:a moft Learned Bi-' 
- fhop :: By the help of which Water be could read without the ufe of {pew 
_ Fatles at9o ee of Age. A Bottle of eis will coft but ¥ 5. 3 
FIN Le e | 








a ee “ 
ta arin ae A Sy 
tales 


a 





—— 
oe 
se 


we 


dg? 
ays , 

















NSA aaaRArY, 
as CMA iret Seika ett NES DA 
ae sith Ne an 


1 


are 
VaR 


\ 


ys 


A angie iaiie Spgs 
Lis at) == 
r AE) ONO greed 


a aye : , 
WE eh ot . 7 4 $ 

Bie eee 
FN oa 
US ge at Nr } 


Aig e 


hee 





oF 


> ES Ute, Fy a (cs 


\ fie "2 Lie 
oN 
Fe Ney Pete 


i 








