Google 


This  is  a  digital  copy  of  a  book  that  was  preserved  for  generations  on  Hbrary  shelves  before  it  was  carefully  scanned  by  Google  as  part  of  a  project 

to  make  the  world's  books  discoverable  online. 

It  has  survived  long  enough  for  the  copyright  to  expire  and  the  book  to  enter  the  public  domain.  A  public  domain  book  is  one  that  was  never  subject 

to  copyright  or  whose  legal  copyright  term  has  expired.  Whether  a  book  is  in  the  public  domain  may  vary  country  to  country.  Public  domain  books 

are  our  gateways  to  the  past,  representing  a  wealth  of  history,  culture  and  knowledge  that's  often  difficult  to  discover. 

Marks,  notations  and  other  maiginalia  present  in  the  original  volume  will  appear  in  this  file  -  a  reminder  of  this  book's  long  journey  from  the 

publisher  to  a  library  and  finally  to  you. 

Usage  guidelines 

Google  is  proud  to  partner  with  libraries  to  digitize  public  domain  materials  and  make  them  widely  accessible.  Public  domain  books  belong  to  the 
public  and  we  are  merely  their  custodians.  Nevertheless,  this  work  is  expensive,  so  in  order  to  keep  providing  this  resource,  we  liave  taken  steps  to 
prevent  abuse  by  commercial  parties,  including  placing  technical  restrictions  on  automated  querying. 
We  also  ask  that  you: 

+  Make  non-commercial  use  of  the  files  We  designed  Google  Book  Search  for  use  by  individuals,  and  we  request  that  you  use  these  files  for 
personal,  non-commercial  purposes. 

+  Refrain  fivm  automated  querying  Do  not  send  automated  queries  of  any  sort  to  Google's  system:  If  you  are  conducting  research  on  machine 
translation,  optical  character  recognition  or  other  areas  where  access  to  a  large  amount  of  text  is  helpful,  please  contact  us.  We  encourage  the 
use  of  public  domain  materials  for  these  purposes  and  may  be  able  to  help. 

+  Maintain  attributionTht  GoogXt  "watermark"  you  see  on  each  file  is  essential  for  informing  people  about  this  project  and  helping  them  find 
additional  materials  through  Google  Book  Search.  Please  do  not  remove  it. 

+  Keep  it  legal  Whatever  your  use,  remember  that  you  are  responsible  for  ensuring  that  what  you  are  doing  is  legal.  Do  not  assume  that  just 
because  we  believe  a  book  is  in  the  public  domain  for  users  in  the  United  States,  that  the  work  is  also  in  the  public  domain  for  users  in  other 
countries.  Whether  a  book  is  still  in  copyright  varies  from  country  to  country,  and  we  can't  offer  guidance  on  whether  any  specific  use  of 
any  specific  book  is  allowed.  Please  do  not  assume  that  a  book's  appearance  in  Google  Book  Search  means  it  can  be  used  in  any  manner 
anywhere  in  the  world.  Copyright  infringement  liabili^  can  be  quite  severe. 

About  Google  Book  Search 

Google's  mission  is  to  organize  the  world's  information  and  to  make  it  universally  accessible  and  useful.   Google  Book  Search  helps  readers 
discover  the  world's  books  while  helping  authors  and  publishers  reach  new  audiences.  You  can  search  through  the  full  text  of  this  book  on  the  web 

at|http  :  //books  .  google  .  com/| 


r 


fJ. -. Js, 

IRADCUFFE  COLLEGE  UBRABY( 

WOMEN'S  ARCHIVES 

Tnnaferred  from 

HARVARD  COLLEGE  UBRARY 

19e0 


/TF^ 


( 

I" 

r 


[^ 


r 


A 

COMPLETE   SYSTEM 

COOKERY, 

OJV^   ^    PXu/iVr   ENTIRELY  NEfTi 

coNsisTiiro  ov 
AN  EXTENSIVE  AND  ORIGINAL  COLLECTION  OF 

RECEIPTS, 

IW 

Cooftet?>  Confectionatp,  etc* 


WITH 

BILLS  OF  FARE 

FOR  EFERY  DAY  IN  THE  YPAR\ 

S  THE  WSOLE  A%   ACTUALLY   DHESSCD   AMD  SKKTBO   UP,  OURIITO  VtTB 

tsars'    R'XMDEHrCEy    AT  TnS  MARQUft  OV  BUCKIiraHAIl's ; 

InclttdiDff 

SEVERAL  ENTEBTA1NMENT8  OITBN  TO 

HIS  ROYAL  HIGHNESS  THE  PRINCE  OF  WJLES^ 

AND  OTHER  ROTAl.  PKRtORAOtf. 

To  which  are  now  added, 

TABL£S  OF  ARTICLES  IN  SEASON, 

AND 

tTi^e  ®ot)e  of  Vxt^tin^  Cunlft 

(never  before  given   in   ANT   WORK  OV  THE  XINd) 

BILLS  OF  FARE  FOR  DESERTSy 

AND  A  SERIES  OP  RECEIPTS  AND  BILLS  OP  PARE  OP  ECONOMICAL  DISHKt> 

TO  SUIT  TBB  MOST, PRIVATE  PAMILIES. 


By    JOHN    SIMPSON, 

COOK  TO  THE  LATB  AND  PRESENT  MARQUIS  OF  BUCKINOHAIT. 


lontion  r 

VRINTSD  VOR  W.  8TBWART,  194,  PICCADILLY^    BALDWIN,  CRADOCB^ 
AND  JOY,  PATERNOSTER- row;  GALE  AND  VBNNER,  PATBRNOSTBR- 

row;  t.  hvgbbs,  ludgatb-biix  ;   J.  batcbilRO,  Piccadilly  » 

▲.  ANDBRtON,  PiCeADII.I.Y  ;  BODWBLL  AND  MARTIN,  NEW  BOND* 
STBBBT  ;  J.  BOOKER,  NBW  BOND-STREET}  AND  TBB  AUTSOm,.  S» 
PORTMAM-BIRBBT^  POmVMjLN-SOUARB. 

1816. 


"^^t^M-WrtrrS- 


»(t&.  til?  •"^^*?  ^/  G^'£cN0U8H 

«epTfi«.:.it:<  20,  1926 


i«V. 


!> 

'^"1 


«     ^  a        *  ■ 


PREFACE. 


UEEPLY  impressed  \vith  gratitude  for  the  favorable 
reception  wbich  tlie  former  editions  of  my  Complete 
Ststim  op  Cookery  have  met  witb^  I  have  naturally 
feit  it  incumbent  on  me  to  make  every  exertion  to  keep 
pace  with  the  patronage  of  the  Public^  by  using  every 
ueans  in  my  power  to  correct  any  error  which  might 
lave  occurred,  and  to  make  every  improvement^  which 
sdditiioal  experience  could  suggesu 

At  the  same  time  I  felt  it  also  a  {Ktraaoouot  duty  rs^ 
*pectfu%  to  listen  to  every  judicious  suggestion  made  by 
iny  Friends  and  Purchasers.  Among  the  many  with  whicb 
I  have  been  favoured,  none  were  more  strongly  inculcated 
wan  the  necessity  of  endeavouring  to  find  out  son^  mode 
rf  printing  my  Work  in  a  smaller  size  ;;  which,,  Vhile  it 
Aoald  not  be  abridged  of  a  single  Receipt ,  or  BUI  of  Fare,. 
would  enable  the  Publishers  to  reduce  the  price,  and  thus 
»«ider  it  easier  of  purchase  to  all  ranks  of  people.  This 
I  have  been  enabled  to  do,  by  referring  my  Readers  ge- 
■«ally  to  the  Alpbabe^cal  Table,  instead  of  repeating  the 
I  Krticalar  dUb^  mi  pages  under  each  biU  of  fare ;  and  I 

A. 


ii  PREFACE. 

« 

have  therefore  endeavoured  to  arrange  tlie  General  Index 
in  that  copious  and  convenient  fornix  which^  I  trusty  will 
be  perfectly  clear  and  useful  to  every  understanding. 

To  obviate  the  objections  of  (hose,  who,  from  my  being 
employed  in  the  first  Noble  Families  (and  to  supply  splen- 
did and  rdyal  entertainments),  may  have  inferred,  that  my 
Receipts  must,  of  course,  savour  of  extravagance  (but 
which,  I  beg  leave  to  observe,  I  have  carefully  avoided), 
I  have  made  a  large,  and,  I  trust,  most  satisfactory  addition 
of  near  forty  Bills  of  Fare^  and  corresjwndent  Receipts^ 
calculated  on  the  most  economical  system,  for  the  more 
immediate  use  of  smaller  families,  where  choice,  or  other 
considerations,  rendered  such  desirable.  And  by  these 
means  I  flatter  myself  to  have  made  my  m  ork  an  useful 
acquisition  to  every  family^  from  the  highest  to  the 
lowest ;  as,  by  a  judicious  comparison  and  selections  from 
both  parts,  every  head  of  a  family  may  now  be  abl6  to 
combine  a  repast,  congeuial  in  every  respect  either  to  the 
purse,  or  the  wish. 

Other  novel  features  will  also  present  themselves  in 
this  edition,  which  have  long  been  desired  by  many 
Ladies,  as  very  useful  to  consult  and  refresh  the  memory  ; 
among  which  (and  what  has  not  hitherto  been  attempted 
in  any  similar  work)  is  a  series  of  Sills  of  Fare  for 
Deserts. 

4 

Besides  these,  I  have  not  only  made  other  valuable 
additions^ — in  the  article*  of  General  Directions^ — ^in  an 


i 


PREFACB*  in 

iocreased  number  of  New  Receipts  of  Confectionary  and 
Pkldii^, — and    also   Tables  of  every  Article  in  Season 
during  the  different  months  of  the  year ; — ^but  have  care^ 
fally  reviled  and  re-^rittai  every  article,  thus  makii^  \t, 
in  fact,  an  entire  new  work;  while  I  pledge  myself  that 
the  Receipts  are  not  the  offspring  of  fancy  or  plagiarism, 
bat,  as  is  truly  stated  in  the  Title^  the  actual  result  of  my 
own  labours  and  trial,  in  the  course  of  the  five  years  1 
lived  in  the  families  of  the  late  and  present  Marquis  of 
Buckingham  ;  and  during  which  time  I  had  the  satisfac- 
tion of  receiving  continually  the  approbation  of  the  Royal 
and  Noble   Visitors^   who    frequented    their    hospilabU 
mansion. 

In  thus  laying  before  my  Friends  and  Readers  what  I 
have  done  to  merit  their  future  countenance  and  support^ 
I  feel  it  also  necessary  to  apologize  for  the  numerous 
errors  which  had  crept  into  my  former  editions^  owing 
to  the  considerable  distance  I  was  from  the  Printer's 
at  the  time  of  publication^  but  which,  I  confidently  trustj 
I  have  fully  amended  in  this.  Should  there«  however^ 
any  still  remain,  I  can  only  observe,  that  every  informa- 
tion of  them,  or  suggestion  of  real  improvement^  will  be 
most  readily  attended  to,  as  it  is  my  most  earnest  wish  to 
render  my  Book  deserving  of  the  patronage  of  the  Public^ 
on  whose  indulgence  I  throw  myself*  with  perfect  reliance 
on  their  candour  and  generosity. 

JOHN  SIMPSON- 

Tor tman^  street f  Ptfriman'tquate^ 
May  10,  18ia. 


CONTENTS. 


I 


Aige 

[NTBODUCnON..^....i t 

ivUt     VBCSSSAlir    TO     BK     V4BTICVXJIBLT     OBtBBYVO     ZH     THB 

1    BKOVLATIOB    AVD   XANAOBXBKT   OF  THE   LABDBB      •.•••••...         f 

fVDBBStBO    aiBAT    •••• • ••••         3 

lur • 4 

TrntL 5 

HvTTOir •••••   •••* •. 6 

«AHB • •••..•• s • ....•«••.•.  ib. 

PiOBB /..• ib 

rBBrsoir  • • * ••••.•.....•.••..•••       7 

tours   AND    SAffCBS     .••• ••••» • ••••  9 

IbOTH   for    FILLIKO    VF    a    0TOCB-FOT    ..f • *•••  t(. 

7BBBBAI.   STOGB,    FOB  ALL  BINDS   OF  SOVFS  AND   8AVCB8  • 10 

SbBBXAI.     XBAOBB    STOCB,     FOB    SOVPtf     S0VTZS6,     AND     OTBBR 

VSB8 •• •••.... 16 

IniS   OF   FABB ••..••....•.• S7 

hrFFLBMBNT • •••« 465 

Additional  bbcbiftb  on  tbb  most  bconomioal  pbincifles    464 

llU.8   OF   FABBjt  ON  TBB    ABOTB   FBINCItLBS   ..•..•.••.•...•••••    48(1 

[)lbbction8  to  mabb  all  binds  of  confbotionabt  .•••••••  516 

[hbbctions  to  mabb  all  binds  of  picblbs * .«.  556 

Dbsbrts»  fob  bvbbt  xonth  in  tbb  tbar  •••..u;.*. «..••.•*•.  541 

PaBMS  of  ABTICLBS  IN   SBA80N.... ••••••••••••••   555 

bus    ..•.••»••.•••. •^••••••..».^ ••.•.••^M««*>«*»> »•  !^9 


/^ 


INTRODUCTION^ 


JylY  intention  in  the  production  of  this  w^rk,  bein^ 
to  tender  it  reallj^  and  extensively  useful,  while  at 
the  same  time,  I  could  vouch  for  its  authenticity,  I 
bave  deviated  ihaferially  from 'the  plan  of  those  who 
have  preceded  me  in  writing  on  the  culinary  art,  by 
inserting,  really  and  bon&  hde,.  no  dish  which  I  have 
not  myself  sent  up  to  table,  and  tried  its  success, 
while  I  have  carefully  endeavoured  to  describe  hiv 
Teceipts  in  that  plain  and  intelligible  manner,  whicu 
will  render  their  dressing  easy  to  every  capacity.  But> 
while  I  thus  attempt  to  make  my  book  of  service  to  all, 
I  can  venture,  J  hope,  to  point  out  its  utility  in  a  par- 
ticular manner  to  all  feniilies  not  keeping  Men  Cooks, 
to  Clerks  of  the  Kitchen,  House  Stewards,  House- 
keepers, and  Cooks ;  while  I  hope  by  the  multiplicity 
and  varied  nature  of  the  receipts  to  render  assistance 
also  to  all  Hotel  and  Innkeepers,  who  having  to  pro- 
vide large  and  elegant  entertainments,  will,  I  trust, 
find  an  ample  ftmd  of  refreshment  to  the  memory  in 
the  different  departments  of  my  work. 

In  SO)  ing  thus  much  I  shall  not,  I  trust,  be  accused 
of  niakihgf  any  invidious  comparison  with  other 
worlis  of  a  simitar  nature;  it  is  the  farthest  from  my 
thoughts,  each  has*  its  own  respective  merits,  and  oii 
its  qwtt  peculiar  claims  to  public  approbation,  I  wish 
mine  to  rest,  and  on  none  more  than  the  multiplicity  of 
the  BILLS  OJ?  if  ARE  of  even/  kind^  which  I  have  in- 
trodiiced  from  the  thorough  conviction  in  the  course 
cfa  long  6xp€ridnce  of  tbeir  necessity  and  utilit/t 


particularly  to  youn^  cookd;  which)  being;  founded 
on  the  choice  of  the  different  articles  6est  in  seasoH 
in  each  respective  month,  will  afford,  if  not  on  one 
particular  day,  atJoaet  on  consulting  the  previous  tmd 
following' bills  of  fere  for  a  week  or  two,  the  combi'* 
nation  of  every  dish  that  can  be  brought  to  table  in 
perfection,  whether  for  a  small,  or  even  the  largest 
entertainment. 

In  the  pursuance  therefore  of  the  plan  I  have  laid 
down,  I  shall  commence  my  labours  with  a  few  rules. 

JtVLEs  necessary  to  be  particutartj/  observed  in  the 
regulation  and  management  of  a  larder. 

« 

No  part  of  the  duty  of  a  good  cook  is  more  es- 
sential than  tlie  careful  management  and  regulation 
of  the  ladder,  as  on  a  strict  attention  to  its  clefinli/iess 
tmd  economy^  trifling  as  it  may.  dppear^  actually  de- 
pends the  credit  of  the  cook,  and  consequently  the 
V  confidence  of  the  employer. 

For  this  purpose  every  morning   (especially  in    the 
summer  season)  let  all  the  shelves  and  dressers  be 
scoured  and  washed  clean  with  cold  water,  and  the 
.    cold  meat  changed  to  fresh  plates,  and.  placed  where 
there  is  most  air,  then  look  to  all  the  soups  and  sauces 
to  see  if  they  want,  boiling  up.  for  in  close  and  sultry 
Weather  they  ought  to  be  boiled  up  every  morning  ; 
and  be  very  particular    about   the   pans    they  are 
put  in  after  boiling;  for  if  the  pans  are  not  quite  dry, 
the  soups  or  sauces  put  in  them    will  be   sure    to 
turn  sour ;  it  requires  therefore  the  strictest  attention 
to  those  things^  as  soups  will  ferment  in  hot  weather 
without  the  greatest  attention..    When  they  begin  to 
tuni)  the  best  wav  to  make  sure  of  them,  is  to  boil 
them  down  to  a  glaze,  and  it  theo  will  answer  every 
purpose  of  stock  by  adding  water  to  it  as  you  want 
It.    When  you  put.  the  sauce  on  to  boil  make  it  a 
^        rule  to  put  a  little  stock  in  the  stew-pan^  to  prevent  it 
M     from  sticking  to  the  bottom. 


Wbaterer  is  done  in  1)raige8  in  the  summer  should 
be  made  stronger  than  in  the  winter,  otherwise  they 
V)\\  liol  keep  to  be  of  service. 

All  lardiDgs,  if  they  return  to  the  kitchen  whole, 
dM)u\d  be  put  in  tbe  braise  they  were  done  in,  and 
covered  over  with  the  sheets  of  bacon  that  covered 
them  before  they  were  taken  up*    Tenderones  of  veal 
and  \ainb,  ox  rumps,  beef  or  veal  olives,  roulards  of 
mutton  and  vealy  rump  of  beef^  in  short,  alt  the  dif- 
ferent articles  usually  aone  in  braises  should  be  taken 
particular  care  of,  and  the  same  attention   paid  to 
^putting  by  those  dishes  that  would  be  useful  again  as 
in  dressing  the  dinner,  they  being  equally  good  and 
serviceable  a  second  time. 

All  meat  that  is  dresRed  to  be  kept  until  cold,  whe- 
ther boiled  or  roast,  should  be  over  done,  particularlv 
I    in  the  summer^  for  if  the  gravy  be  left  in  eitlier,  it 
I     irill  not  keep  good  more  than  two  or  three  days,  but 
if  done  quite  dry  it  will  keep  a  week  or  longer.    Roast 
meat  should  be  well  sprinkled  with  salt  before  it  is 
taken  from  the  fire ;  and  boiled  beef  that  is  intended 
to  he  eaten  cold  should  be  at  least  fourteen  days  in 
salt,  (if  a  few  days  longer  it  will  eat  all  the  better 
\7hen  boiled)  on  account  that  if  not  well  salted,  by 
being  boiled  rather  longer  than  it  would  be  to  send  to 
table  hot,  it  will  eat  insipid. 

UNDRESSED  MEAT. 

When  in  tlie  country  in  summer,  and  the  meat  is 
not  killed  at  home,  the  Cook  should  be  very  particular . 
mi\\  the  butcher,  and  make  it  an  invariable  rule  to 
have  the  meat  brought  in  as  early  as  possible  in  the 
morning,  not  later  than  six  o'clock  if  within  a  few 
miles,  or  otherwise  when  the  heat  of  the  day  is 
I  advanced,  it  is  almost  impossible  to  prevent  it  from 
I  being  fly-blown.  It  is  hardly  necessary  to  remind  the 
I     tbe  cook  that  great  attention  is  reqniiite  to  watch  tLe 

«  2 


4 


in^t  closely  in  summer,  the  heat  6f  the  weather  fr^^ 
quently  turning  it  sudck»lj ;  it  stands  also  to  reai$on 
that  it  will  not  keep  so  long  in  summer  gis  in  winter. 

It  ought,  indeed,  to  be  invariably  observed  h>y 
butchers  not  to  overdrive  the  cattle  intended  for 
slaughter,  and  to  keep  them  fiisting  at  least  twentj-fbi:i  i- 
hours  before  they  are  killed,  for,  if  they  be  then  full, 
the  meat  will  not  keep  good  above  a  day  or  two  ;  it: 
should  also  be  done  either  very  early  in  the  mornin  of 
K>v  late  in  the  evening,  the  evening  1  always  preferred, 
and  to  have  it  cut  up  early  the  next  morning,  there 
then  being  no  flies  about. 

BEEP. 

When  the  beef  is  cut  in  proi)er  pieces,  for  insiarice, 
the  sitloiii,  ribs,  rump,  and  brisket,  in  the  first  place 
examine  well  and  see  that  there  are  no  fly-blows 
about  them,  as  in  the  sirloin  the  flies  are  very  apt  to 
get  under  the  loose  side  of  the  fat ;  wipe  it  well  with 
a  clean  dry  cloth,  sprinkle  the  fat  with  salt,  and  rub 
salt  also  on  the  chine  bone;  take  out  the  pipe  that 
runs  along  it,  and  the  kernel  that  is  in  the  fat  at  the 
chump,  and  also  the  pith ;  let  these  places  be  well 
rubbed  with  salt,  as  likewise  the  outside  and  two  ends  ^ 
it  will  keep  good  a  week  in  hot  weather  by  strictly 
observing  these  rules. 

l?a&5.^^Rub  the  chine  bone  with  salt;  cut  out  the 
piece  of  skirt  that  is  mostly  left  in,  And  rub  the  inside 
well  with  salt,  as  also  thie  outsides,  the  two  ends  and 
the  top  of  the  ribs,  it  may  then  be  hung  up. 

/?2£wp.— Cut  off  the  fat  that  is  generally  left  in  by 
the  butchers,  and  take  out  the  kernel  that  is  near  the 
small  end ;  wipe  it  quite  dry  with  a  cloth  a)id  hang^ 
it  up. 

BriskeL — The  part  that  is  generally  kept  for  stewing 
is  the  thick  end,  as  to  the  size  that  must  depend  upon 
the  judgment  of  those  who  ar^  to  use  it;  it  should  be 


n; 


Triped  quite  dry  with  a  clean  cloth  before  it  is  btmg 
up.  . 

The  pieces  that  are  intended  for  boiling  require 

equal  attention.     There  are  two  kernels  in  a  round  of 

beef,  one  in  the  middle,  comraonlj  called  the  pope'* 

eye,  the  other,  in  the  thick  fat,  be  careful  in  seeing 

that  the  butcher  takes  them  out,  otherwise  no  quantity 

of  salt  will  preserve  it  from  spoiling,  particularly  in  the 

sumiiier.     In  the  thick  flank  there  is  also  a  kernel  in 

the  middle  of  the  fat  which  must  be  cut  out,  as  well  as 

one  which  is  in  the  aitch  bone,  where  tlie  rump  is 

taken  offl     There  is  also  a  kernel  which,  according  io 

the  different  modes  of  cutting  up,  is  sometimes  found 

in  the  shoulder,  sometimes  in  the  neck  piece,  which 

must  be  carefully  taken  out.    Joint  the  brisket  by  way 

of  letting  the  salt  in,  and  the  flat  ribs  the  same ;  when 

•all  this  is  done  see  that  the  butcher  rubs  the  salt 

well  into  each  piece  with  the  heel  of  his  hand,  aud ' 

fills  all  the  joints  with  salt :  when  properly  done  then 

put  it  down  tight  in  the  salt  bin,  the  prime  pieces  at 

the  bottom,,  and  cover  all  well  over  with'  salt,  the 

coacse  pieces  at  the  top  to  be  used  first,  and  by 

adhering  strictly  to  these  rules,  the  sdt  beef  will  he 

as  good  in  summer  as  winter. 

VEAL. 

Leg. — The  first  part  that  spoils  is  where  the  udder 
is  skewered  back,  that  skewer  should  be  taken  out 
and  the  under  part  of  the  udder  wiped  very  dry,  then 
rubbed  with  a  little  salt,  and  the  kernel  taken  out  from 
the  thick  fat. 

N.  B.  Veal  requires  to  be  wiped  dry  with  a  clean 
cloth  every  morning. 

Loin. — Cut  out  the  pipe  that  runs  along  the  chine 
bone ;  wipe  it  well  with  a  cloth,  and  under  the  kidne^ 
the  same ;  there  is  a  kernel  under^  the  fat  that  is  la 
the  inside  of  the  chump  which  must  be  takc^  out;; 
sprinkle  a  little  salt  on  the  chine  bone 

B   Q 


The  Shoulder  is  seldom  kept  above  a  daj  or  i'wa^ 
as  it  is  generally  either  used  for  the  family  or  put  in 
the  stoek  pot. 

Neck, — There  is  a  pipe  that  runs  along  tha  cliine 
bone  which  should  be  cut  out,  as  well  as*  the  chine 
bone ;  the  inside  of  the  ribs  wiped  very  dry  with  a 
cloth,  and  then  rubbed  with  a  little  salt 

Breast. — Gut  the  loose  fat  out  from  the  inside,  and 
the  piece  of  skirt,  and  wipe  it  very  dry  with  a  clothe 

MUTTON. 

Cfiinc-r-The  fat  should  all  be  taken  out,  also  tho 
pipe  that  runs  up  the  back  bone,  and  two  small  ker-. 
uels  near  the  tail ;  sprinkle  the  inside  with  salt. 

The  Leg  is  a  joint  that  spoils  sooner  than  auy  part 
of  the  sheep:  there  is  a  kernel  in  the  &i  which  must 
be  taken  out,  and  the  place  filled  up  with  salt,  indeed 
the  butcher  ought  to  take  it  out  when  he  is  dressing* 
the  sheep :  could  they  be  persuaded  to  take  it  out  they 
would  not  have  occasion  to  throw  so  many  away  as 
they  do  in  the  summer  time. 

The  Neck  is  a  joint  that  will  keep  the  best  of  any ; 
cut  the  pipe  out  that  runs  along  the  chine  bone,  and 
rub  it  dry  with  a  doth. 

T/ie  Shoulder. — There  is  a  kernel  in  the  inside 
which  should  be  taken  out. 

lireosL — Cut  the  skirt  out  and  wipe  it  dry. 

LAMB. 

Lamb  should  be  managed  the  same  as  mutton ;  it 
is  cut  up  in  the  same  manner  as  a  sheep, 

PORK. 

Leg. — The  lefi;8  are  generally jalted  for  boiling;  if 
the  leg  be  intended  for  roasting  k  ought  to  be  salted 
and  hung  up. 


Necks  and  Loins  answer  either  for  chops  or  roast- 
k^^  they  should  be  sprinkled  with  salt  before  they  are 
Kung  up  ;  the  hand  and  tbia  part  is  general!)^  salted 
foj  boiVmg. 

VENISON- 

Venison  is  reckoned  the  choicest  meat  in  use,  and 

is  otlener  spoiled  than  any  other.    The  cooks  fi^ene- 

rally  get  the  blame,  bat  the  fault  lies  mostly  with  the 

p?LTk  keeper,  for  want  of  precaution  in  killing  them. 

This  ought  to  be  done  as  soon  as  it  is  day-light,  when 

it  could  be  effected  immediately  ;  for  tlie  bucks  always 

herd'mg  together,    and  when  first  they  are   roused, 

standing  to  look  about  them,  the  keeper  being  ready 

on  the  spot,  would  be  enabled  to  take  a  sure  aiuu 

Haying  been  present  I  can  speak  to  the  fact;  and  it 

is  impossible  for  meat  to  keep  that  is  hunted  for  three, 

four,  and  very  often  five  hours,  which  is  too  often  the 

case. 

The  Haunch  is  the  finest  joint.  The  keeper  should 
bring  it  in  as  early  in  the  morning  after  killing  as  pot< 
Bible.  There  is  a  kernel  in  the  rat  the  same  as  a  leg 
of  mutton,  that  should  be  taken  out,  and  the  part 
wiped  very  dry,  and  a  little  ground  pepper  and  gin- 
ger rubbed  on  the  inside,  ^which  wiii  keep  the  flies 
from  it ;  it  is  the  best  ke.eping  meat  of  any,  particu- 
larly if  what  1  have  mentioned  be  strictly  attend- 
ed to. 

The  Neck  is  the  nfixt  best  joint,  which  requires 
Dothing  but  wiping  it  well  with  a  clean  dry  cloth. 

The  Shoulder  and  Breast  are  generally  used  in  two 
or  three  days  for  a  pasty. 

The  keeper  in  general  draws  the  shoulder,  which 

is  sure  to  spoil  the  neck.     The  shoulder  should  not 

be  taken  on  until  quite  cold,  and  then  raise  it  the 

same  as  a  shoulder  of  mutton. 

The  most  es3ential  accompaniments  to  a  good  dia* 

u  4 


s 

ner  being  the  soups  and  sauces,  and  which  occur 
more  or  less  the  same,-  according  to  the  articles,  at 
every  entertainment,  I  shall  commence  my  work 
with  a  series  of  the  most  esteemed^  considering  this  sl 
branch  of  the  art  with-  which  every  cook  ought  to  be 
intimately,  acquainted ;  and  take  this  opportunity-  of 
recomuicndins^,  as  a  highly  requisite  piece  of  economy 
to  every.  Cook  (o  examine  the  larder  previous  to 
nraking  out  a  bill  of  fare,  as  she  will  doubtless  find 
many  things  remaining  from  former  dinners,  which 
would  be  equally  serviceable  on  the  present  occa« 
sion. 


SOUPS  ANB  SAUCES, 


BROTH  FOR  FILLING  UP  A  STOCK  POT* 

The  quantity  of  meat  depends  on  how  much  stock 

3^ou  want  to  inake.     Suppose  you  want  to  make  eight 

quarts  of  broth  ; — get  a  leg  of  beef  and  cut  it  up  in 

thin  slices,  and  break  the  bone  and  put  it  into  a  pot 

that  will  hold  about  fourteen  quarts,  fill  it  up  with 

cold  water  and  put  it  over  the  stove ;  when  it  begins 

to  boil  skim   it  quite  clean  and  put  about  a  pint  of 

cold  water,  and  stir  the  meat  up  from  the  bottom  by 

way  of  making  the  scum  rise  from  the  bottom.  Every 

time  you  skim  it  put  a  little  cold  water  in  to  stop  the 

boil.     You  must  watch  it  so  as  not  to  let  it  boil  fast 

while  over  the  stove,  and  keep  skimming  it  as  long  as 

.  any  scum  will  rise.     Wlien  quite  clear  take  it  off  the 

fire  and  set  it  by  the  side  of  the  stove  to  boil  very 

slow.     It  should  boil  very  gently  so  as  not  to  waste 

Ihe  broth,  as  well  as  to  keep  it  clear ; — it  should  boil 

about  four  hours  after  it  is  taken  off  the  trivet  and  put 

by  the  side  of  the  stove.      When  ready  strain  it  off^ 

into  a  clean  dry  pan,  then  fill  the  pot  up  again  with 

boiling  water  and  let  it   boil  until  the  last  things 

before  leaving  the  kitchen.     If  in  winter,  the  broth 

should  be  made  the  day  before  you  want  it,  as  there 

would  be  no  danger  of  its  turning  sour;  but  in  sum* 

mer,  cooks  must  be  very  careful  in  seeing  the  pans  are 

very  clean  and  dry  before  the  broth  is  strained  into 

them,  and  likewise  not  to  have  more  than  four  quarts 

in  a  pan,  for  when  there  is  a  large  body  of  it  togethet* 

it  is  very  apt  to  ferment.     There  should  not  bo  any 

roots  put  to  this  broth  in  summer. 


10 

« 

A  GENERAL  STOCK  FOR  ALL  KINDS  OF 

SOUPS  AND  SAUCES.*^ 

First  put  about  half  a  pint  of  water  in  the  soup 

{3ot,  then  cover  the  bottom  of  the  pot  with  slices  of 
ean  ham— be  particular  in  cutting  all  the  rusty  fat 
from   the  lean^  then  cut  up  what  quantity  of  Teal 
you  think  reauisite,  (as  the  quantity  roust  depend  on 
your  own  juogment,)  if  the  soup  be  for  white,  there 
should  be  nn  old  fowl  added  to  the  veal,  and  anj 
trimmings  of  poultry  that  you  have,  such  as  necks, 
^zzards,  feet,  and  any  odd  trimmings  of  veal — the 
knuckle  is  the  best  for  the  purpose,  as  the  gristle  adds 
much  to  the  strength ;    put  m  six  or  eight  onionR, 
four  or  five  heads  of  cellery,  a  carrot,  and  two  turnips, 
if  in  winter;   in  summer  not  any — a  faggot  of  thyme 
and  parsley  with  a  few  blades  of  mace  tied  up  in  it, 
then  put  the  pot  on  the  stove  (not  a  very  brisk  one) 
to  draw  down.     Be  careful  not  to  let  it  burn  at  the 
bottom.    All  best  stock  should  be  of  a  light  colour. 
When  drawn  down  fill  it  up  with  the  beef  broth.     Be 
careful  to  skim  it  as  soon  as  you  see  the  scum  rise, 
and  when  it  is  nearly  boiling  take  it  off  and  put  it 
to  the  Side,  and  let  it  Boil  very  slow,  for  two  reasons ; 
the  first  is  to  keep  it  clear,  and  the  other  is  that  it 
should  not  reduce  too  much.     When  Ht  has  boiled 
about  three  hours  strain  it  off  and  fill  up  the  pot 
again  with  the  second  broth  that  was  made  from  the 
leg  of  beef,  and  if  there  be  not  enough  put  water 
$?ufficient  to  fill  the  pot  up.     It  should  boil  very  slow 
all  the  evening.     Strain  it  off  the  last  thing.    I'his  is 
railed  second  stock.      It  serves  for  gravy  for  the 
leasts,  to  fill  op  braises,  to  make  glaze  for  the  lardings 
and  other  dishes. 

COULIS. 

Cut  of  veal  and  ham  an  equal  quantity,  an3  an  old 
fowl ;  lay  the  boUom'  of  a  stelv-pan  with  the  fat  of 


11 

Iiam ; — first  put  a  few  fipoonfiils  of  the  best  fttock, 
tben  pot  in  wah  ham '  and  the  veal,  and  the  fowl,  a 
fii^ot  of  sweet  herbsj  a  little  mace,  a  few  bay  leaves, 
«:d^ery,  and  onions ;  then  put  the  stew-pan  over  the 
theBtove  to  draw  down  gentlv  until  it  comes  to  a 
etnmg  glase,tbea  put  about  half  a  pint  more  of  stock, 
«md  when  that  is  reduced  to  a  glaze  fill  up  the  stew* 
pan  with  best  stock :  when  it  comes  to  a  boil  take 
it  off  the  trivet  and  put  it  to  the  side  of  the  stove  to 
boil  quite  slow  for  about  an  hour,  then  strain  it  off 
into  a  pan  to  be  ready  for  use,  and  fill  up  the  stew- 
pan  with  second  stock,  which  will  make  it  equal  to 
first  stock ;  boil  it  slow  for  about  two  hours,  then 
strain  it  off*  for  use.    Put  some  butter  in  a  stew*pan, 
(at  the  rate  of  three  ounces  to  a  quart  of  couIih)  with 
a  few  mushrooms  cut  in  very  thin  slices,  five  or  six 
shalots,    and  about  two  ounces  of  lean  ham  to  a 
quart  of  coulis :   put  a  few  spoonfuls  of  the  coulis 
stock;  put  in  a  few  bay  leaves,  put  the  stew-pan  over 
the  fire  to  draw  down :  Vhen  the  stock  is  boiled 
away  and  the  butter  begins  to  fry,  then  put  in  as 
much  flour  as  will  dry  up  the  butter;  keep  stirring* 
it  with  a  wooden  spoon  while  on  the  fire ;  when  the 
flour  and  butter  are  well  blended  together,  put  in  tbo 
stock  by  a  little  at  a  time ;  keep  stirring  it  as  you  put 
in  the  stock ;  keep  stirring  it  all  the  time  it  is  on  the 
fire,  otherwise  it  would  stick  to  the  bottom  :  it  should 
boil  about  five  minutes,  then  strain  through  a  tammy 
into  a  bason  for  use. 

SAUCE  TOURNAY  AND  BESHEMELL. 

Lay  the  bottom  of  the  stew-pan  with  ham,  and 
cut  up  an  old  fowl  and  put  it  to  the  ham,  and  about 
two  pound  of  veal  cut  in  slices  and  put  over  the  fowl, 
a  few  onions,  a  faggot  of  thyme  and  parsley,  a  few 
blades  of  mac^.  one  head  of  cellerv,  and  a  few  bay 
leaves.    Putaoout  one  pint  of  stocK;  and  set  it  on  tbo 

^6 


-  r\ 


stove  to  simmer  very  gently  for  an  hour  5  b^oarefiil 

that  the  stock  does  not  more  than  half  waste  away,  as  it 

should  not  be  the  least  brown.     Fffl^p  witii  tiie  besat 

'stock,  and  let  it  boil  very  gently  fer  one  hour,  then 

'  strain  it  off  into  a  bason  for  use.     Fill  up  the  rter^r*- 

})an  again  with  second' stock,  and  boil  it  slow  for  tura 
lours.    Fiuish  the  sauce  Tour&ay  in  all  respects  the 
same  as  the  coulis.    To  make  beshemell  is,  add  cream 
to  the  sauce  Toumay,*  about  half  a  pint  of  double 
'  Cream  to  a  quart  of  sauce  Toumay.    'The  cook  should 
'  be  very  particular  in  the  thickness  of  fai0  sauces : 
white  sauce  should  always  hang  to  whatever  it  is  put 
'  over. 

N.  B.  Beshemell  should  not  boil  more  than  one  or 
two  minutes,  ais  boiling  is  very  apt  to  spoil  the  colour. 
Those  three  sauces  are  the  ground  work  of  all  made 
dishes^   and  good  stock  is  the  same  for  all  soups. 

WHITE  BRAISK 

Take  the  udder  of  a  cow  calf  leg  of  veal  that  you 
Irnve  cut  ^  fricondeau  out  of,  put  it  into  a  stew<pan  of 
cold  water,  and  put  it  on  the  fire  to  blanch ;  when  it 
has  boiled  about  one  minute  take  it  off  and  put  it 
into  cold  water  foi*  a  few  minutes,  then  cut  it  in  small 
piece?,  and  put  them  itito  a  stew-pan  with  about  pne 
ounce <^  butter,  one  or  two  qnions,  a  &ggot  of  thyme 
and  parsley,  a  few  blades  of  mace,  a  lamon.  that. is 
pared  to  the  pulp  cut  in  thin  slices,  put  a  few  spoon- 
ibis  of  WQte^,  put  it  over  a  slow  stove,  and  keep  stirring 
it  for  a  few  minutes ;  then  add  second  stock,  as  to 
i|uantity  it  must  beaccordingto  what  you  want  to  braise. 
It  is  generally  u&ed*  for  tenderones  of  lamb,  Veal^ 
chickens^  pigeons,  or  any  thing  that' is  to  be  white; 

A  BROWN  BRAISE. 
Cut  some  beef  suet,  -trimmings  of  mutton  or  lamb 


13 

eaflets,  or  any  other  sort  of  trimmings^  put  them 
into  a  braising  pan  with  aix  or  seven  onions,  a  foggot 
of  all  kinds  of  sweet  herbs,  a  little  mace,  trimmings  of 
cell^,  two  or  tbree  carrots  cut  in  slices,  a  few  bay 
leaves,  put  about  a  pint  of  water  to  it,  and  put  it  over  the 
stove  to  draw  down  for  about  half  an  hour,  when  the 
liquid  isboiled  all  awaj,  and  begins  to  catch  at  the 
bottom,  then^put  in  second  stock,  or  any  weak  broth 
that  may  be  bandy.. .  If  for  a  ham  or  rump  of  beef,  a 

Eintof  wbite  wine  will  add  much  to  the  flavour  of  the 
am  or  beef.  This,  braise  is  used  for  beef,  mutton, 
ham,  and  veal^  or  any  thing  that  you  want  to  eat 
mellow. 


A  DRY  BRAISE* 

Put  ibe  trimmings  of  beef,  mutton,  or  veal  into  a 
stew-panj   (acxording   to     what  is    intended  to  be 
braised)  with  a  few  onions,  a  faggot  of  sweet  herbs,,  a 
few  blades  of  mace,  and  a  few  bay  leaves,  a  bit  of 
carrot,  and  some  trimmings  of  cellery,  put  as  much 
second  as  will  come  about  half  way  up  to  the  meat, 
then  put'  it  over  the 'stove  for  about  half  an  hour  to 
draw  down ;  then  put  a  little  more  stock,  about  as  much 
as  you  .think  has  boiled  away,  then  cover  the  meat 
over  with  sheets  of  fat  bacon,  or  the  fat  of  ham  if  con- 
venient, then  lay  on  that  which  is  intended  to  be 
braised  ;  it  is  the  best  method  for  doing  all  landings. 
They  take  rather  longer  in  doing,  but  they  eat  so 
much  the  better,  and  Uie  bacon  lookjs  better  by  not 
letting  any  liquid  come  near  it.     Chickens  for  aja 
reine  anda  tui^l^ey  for.  oyster  or  cellery  sauce,,  pigeons 
for  asparagus  peas,  or  any  thing  that  you  want  to 
look  white.     '     '  *  \ 

*  N.  B*  They  should  be  all  covered  over  with  bacon 
and  white  paper  to  keep  all  the  steam  in* 


14 

MUTTON  TEA. 

Cut  about  a  pound  of  the  lean  of  a  loin  of  mutton 
(there  should  not  be  any  fat)  into  thin  slices,  piit 
them  in  a  stew-pan  with  a  few  spoonfuls  of  water ;  sGt 
it  on  the  stove  to  draw  down.  When  all  the  liquid 
is  boiled  away,  put  a  quart  of  water  to  it,  and  let  it 
boil  very  gently  for  half  an  hour ;  be  very  parliculair 
in  having  it  very  clear ;  strain  it  through  a  napkin. 

BEEF  TEA. 

The  beef  for  this  purpose  should  be  cut  from  the 
mouse  round,  to  be  cut  in  very  thin  slices,  and  put 
into  a  stew-pan  of  suiBcient  size  to  hold  the  quantity 
wanted,  pour  boiling  water  over  it,  put  it  to  the  side  of 
the  fire  to  boil  very  slow  for  half  an  hour,  be  veiy 
particular  in  skimming   it.     It  should  be  strained 
through  si  napkin.     It  will  take  a  pound  of  beef  to 
make  a  quart  of  tea. 

N.  B.  Veal  tea  is  made  the  same,  the  veal  should  be 
cut  from  the  fillet  or  knuckle. 

CHICKEN  BROTH. 

Cut  up  a  fowl  and  put  it  into  a  stew-pan,  with  about 
three  pints  of  water,  and  a  few  blades  of  mace,  put  it 
t>n  the  fire ;  when  it  begins  to  boil  skim  it  very  clean^ 
and  put  a  little  more  water  to  it  to  stop  it  from  boiling  i 
when  it  begins  to  boil  again  skim  it,  and  take  it  ^BT 
the  fire,  and  put  it  to  the  side  to  boil  for  half  an  hour, 
then  strain  it  through  a  fine  fdeve,  and  fill  the  stew-^ 
pan  up  again,  and  let  it  boil  for  two  hours,  then  straia 
It  off  for  use. 

N.  B.  An  old  fowl  i»  best  for  this  purpose* 

CHICKEN  PANADE. 
Cut  the  breast  of  the  fowl  (Ihat  has  been  either 


15 

boHed  or  roasted,  into  small  pieces^  and  put  ft  in  tBe 
mortar  and  pound  it  very  fine ;  the  legs  and  other 
part  put  in  a  stew-pan  with  about  ha]f  a  pint  of  good 
stocky  let  it  boil  about  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  then 
strain  it  off,  and  put  a  little  to  the  chicken  that  is  in 
the  mortar  and  pound  it  again,  and  put  the  remainder 
of  the  liquor  in  the  mortar,  mix  ail  well  together, 
and  put  it  into  a  tammy  and  rub  it  through;  put  a 
little  cream  to  it ;  make  it  hot  when  wanted. 

Panade  beef,  mutton,  or  veal,  is  made  the  same 
way  as  chicken  panade. 

PLAIN  MUTTON  BROTH. 

Cut  tbe  scrag  of  a  neck  of  mutton,  and  cut  it  in  thin 
chops,  put  the  mutton  into  a  stew-pan,  and  about 
half  a  pint  of  water,  two  onions,  a  carrot,  turnip,  and 
a  faggot  of  thyme  and  parsley,  set  it  on  the  stove  to 
boil  until  the  water  is  all  boiled  away,  then  fill  up 
the  8tew-pan  with  cold  water,  and  as  the  scum  rises 
skim  it  off,  by  so  doing  it  will  be  quite  clear.  When 
it  boils  take  it  off  the  fire,  and  set  it  by  the  side  to  boil 
slow. 

JELLY  STOCK. 

Bone  foui:  calves  feet  and  put  them  into  a  stew- 
pan  that  will  bold  about  six  quarts,  (the  reason  for 
boning  them  is,  that  if  ^ou  should  want  to  make  use- 
of  them  for  soup  or  a  dish,  they  should  be  taken  up 
before  they  are  boiled  too  muqh)  let  them  boil  gently 
for  about  two  hours,  then  take  out  the  meat  part  and 
put  it  into  cold  water;  when  cold  trim  them  for  any 
use  they  are  intended  for :  put  the  trimmings  back 
into  the  stock  and  let  it  boil  until  you  think  it  has  come 
to  a  proper  strength;  it  is  no  matter  how  loQgit 
boils.  From  four  feet  you  should  have  two  quarts  of 
stock*  ^ 


16 


A  GENERAL  MEAGRE  STOCK,  FOR  SOUPS^ 
SAUCES,  AND  OTHER  USES. 

Cut  two  large  carp  in  thin  pieces,  two  tench,  and 
two  eels  in  the  same  manner ;  put  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  butter  into  a  soup  pot  that  will  hold  about 
eight  quarts :  put  in  the  fish  and  bones,  one  dozen  oF 
large  onions,   a  large  faggot  of  sweet  herbs,  a  few 
blades  of  mace,  four  or  five  heads  of  cellery,  t\¥0 
carrots,  a  few  bay  leaves,  about  one  dozen  anchovies 
without  being  washed,  and  about  half  a  pint  of  water  ; 
set  it  on  the  stove  to  draw  down ;  when  quite  down^ 
so  as  just  to  catch  at  the  bottom,  then  fill  it  up  with 
hot  water,  and  let  it  boil  for  three  hours :  be  aure 
that  it  does  not  boil  fsust ;  the  slower  all  soups  boil 
the  better.     Strain  it  through  a  tammy  sieve. 

N.  B.  Sea  fish  are  equally  as  good  for  this  use,  and 
some  are  better ;  throw  all  your  bones  from  the 
fillets  into  the  stock,  and  any  olher  trimmings  that 

Jou   may  have   by  you ;     smoked   salmon    or   red 
erring  will  give  it  a  good  flavour. 

HOT  FORCED  MEAT,  COMMONLY  CALLED 

FARCE. 

Cut  veal  (according  to  the  quantity  you  want  of 
forced  meat,)  without  sinews,  into  small  pieces  (about 
the  size  of  dice,)  as  much  fat  of  ham,  and  lean  of 
ham  the  same  quantity,  and  about  half  as  much  beef 
marrow  or  «uet;  put  it  into  a  stew-pan  with  a  little 
bit  of  butter  at  the  bottom,  season  it  with  chopped 
parsley,  thyme,  shalot,  a  very  little   bit  of  garlick, 
mushrooms,  (trufiles  if  they  are  to  be  had,)  a  little 
fine  spice,  pepper  and  salt,  and  a  little  cayenne  pep- 
per; put  the  stew-pan  over  the  fire,  keep  stirring  it 
while,  on 'the  fire  with  a  wooden  spoon  until  the 
juice  of  the  meat  begins  to  run ;  let  it  simmer  about 


•  IT     . 

ten  minutes,  then  piat  itHorcqol;  when  qpke  cold  put 
it  into  the  mortar,  gravj,  fat,  and  aU,  and.  let  it  be 
well  pounded  until  it  is  quite  fine,  then  take  it  out 
and  use  it  for  what  it  is  ivanted.  ■ 

N.  B.  Use  as  much  lean  ham  as  veal  in  either  hot- 
or  cold  forced  meat. 


COLD  FORCED  MEAT,  FOR  BALLS  AND 

OTHER  USES. 

The  veal  sliould  be  either  scraped  or  chopped  very 
fine,  and  be  Tery  particular  about  leaving  any  sinews 
in  the  veal ;  put  an  equal  quantity  ;of  fat  bacon, 
or  the  fat  of  ham  if  convenient  is  better ;  put  it  into 
the  mortar  and  pound  it  until  it  is  very  fine,  then 
season  it  with  chopped  parsley,  lemon,  thyme,  shalot, 
mushrooms,  pepper  ana  salt,  a  little  fine  spice,  and 
a  little  cayenne  pepper ;  mix  all  well  together  and 

finish  pounding  it,  then  put  in  egg  and  bread  crumbs 

and  stir  it  about  to   mix  it;    take  it    out  of  the 

mortar  ready  for  use^ 

N.  B.  You'mu^t  use  more  of  less  egg  and  bread 

crumbs,  according  to  the  Quantity  of  forced  meat. 

When  you  make  it  up  into  oalls  it  should  be  rolled 

in  flour.     Let  the  stock  boil  heSore  you  put  the 

bails  in. 

EGG  BALLS,  FOR  TURTLE,  MOCK 

TURTLE,  &c. 

Boil  the  eggs  bard,  and  put  them  in  cold  water, 
when  cold  take  the  yolks  out  and  put  them  in  the  mor- 
tar with  raw  yolks  sufficient  to  wet  them,  then  pound 
them' quite  fine;  put  in  white  pepper  and  salt,  and 
't  sufiicleat  qiiantity  :of  flour  to  dry:  up  the  yolk^^  and 
make  them  stiff  for  making  up  into  balls,  rather  sma% 


18 

AS  they  swell  very  much  in  boiling;:  the  stock  should 
boil  before  the  balls  are  put  in ;  a  few  minutes  ^vill 
be  sufficient  to  boil  them. 

PIQUANT  SAUCE. 

Put  a  little  chopped  shalot  into  a  small  stew-pan, 
and  a  few  spoonfuls  of  stock ;  set  the  stew-pan  on 
the  fire  to  boil  verjslow;  when  the  stock  is  quite 
reduced  add  as  much  coulis  as  you  want  sauce,  let  it 
boil  a  few  minutes,  squeeze  a  lemon  in  it,  season  it 
with  white  pepper  and  salt,  put  a  little  dust  of  sugar^ 
and  about  two  drops  of  garlick  vinegar, 

POIVRADE  SAUCE. 

Rub  the  bottom  of  a  small  stew-pan  with  clove  of 
garlick,  put  a  small  piece  of  butter,  a  few  slices  pf 
onion,  a  little  stock  and  vinegar,  and  about  twelve 

J  [rains  of  whole  pepper;  when  nearly  reduced  add  a 
ittle  flour,  and  stir  it  about  while  on  the  fire  for  a 
f^w  minutes;  put  as  much  stock  and  coulis  as  you 
want  sauce,  strain  it  through  the  tammy,  ^ueeze  a 
lemon  in^  and  put  in  a  dust  of  sugar^ 

CARROT  SAUCR 

Cut  the  red  part  of  the  carrot  into  small  dice,  rcry 
neat,  boil  them  in  best  stock  until  it  comes  to  a  glaze, 
then  add  coulis  according  to  the  quantity  of  sauce 
wanted. 

SAUCE  HACHIS, 

Cut  mushrooms  into  dice,  pickled  girkin,  walnut, 
(first  scrape  the  black  coat  off  and  wash  them  in 
several  waters,)  carrots,  and  put  in  very  small  button 
onions,  they  should  not  be  much  larger  than  a  large 
pea ;  put  the  mushrooms  on  by  themselTes^  with  a  bit 


19 

of  butter  and  a  little  white  pepper  and  salt,  and 
squeeze  half  a  lemon  in ;  put  tnem  on  to  simmer 
gently  until  they  are  done,  then  take  them  from  the 
fire  and  set  them  bj  until  wanted;  put  the  carrots  on 
to  boil  in  a  little  stock,  wl^n  nearly  done  put  in  the 
girkins,  walnut,  and  onions;  reduce  the  stock  nearly 
to  a  glaze,  then  put  in  the  mushrooms  and  a  little 
coulis  ;  just  give  it  a  boil. 

ALLEMAND  SAUCE. 

Put  a  few  slices  of  ham  into  a  stew-pan^  a  few 

trimmings  of  tK>ultry,  either  dressed  or  undressed, 

three  or  four  snalots,  a  very  small  clove  of  garlick, 

a  bav  leaf,   a  little  tarragon,  and  a  few  spoonfuls  of 

stock ;  set  the  stew-pah  on  the  fire  to  simmer  very 

gently  for  balf  an  hour,  add  as  much  coulis  as  you 

want  sauce ,  let  it  boil  for  a  few  minutes,  then  squeeze 

it  through  the  tammy;  return  it  into  the  stew-paa 

to  make  hot,  squeeze  a  Seville  orange  in  when  to 

he  had,  otherwise  a  lemon,  season  it  with  cayenne 

pepper  and  a  little  salt  if  wanted. 

ITALIAN  SAUCE,  WHITE. 

« 

Put  a  few  chopped  truiBes  and  shalots  and  some 
minced  ham  into  a  stew-pan,  and  a  little  good  light 
coloured  stock ;  set  ttie  stew-pan  on  a  slove  to  simmer 
very  gently  for  about  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  then  put 
beshemell  to  it  according  to  the  quantity  of  sauce 
wanted ;  let  it  boil  a  few  minutes ;  if  it  should  lose 
its  colour  put  a  little  cream  in  and  strain  it  throug^h 
the  tammy ;  put  about  two  drops  of  garliek  vinegar  m, 
aod  squeeze  a  little  lemon  juice  in  just  before  wanted. 

ITALIAN  SAUCE,  BROWN. 

Put  chopped  mushrooms  and  shalots  into  a  stew* 
pau;  with  a  Uttle  bit  of  butter  and  a  spoonful  of  stocky 


I 


Lv 


2b 

fend  a  little  pepper  and  salt ;  set  it  on  a  slow  stove 
for  a  few  minutes,  then  put  in  a  little  flour ;  stir  it 
over  the  fire  for  a  few  minutes,  put  in  a  glass  of 
Madeira,  and  coulis  according  to  the  quantity  of 
sauce  that  is  wanted ;  squeeze  a  Seville  orange  in, 
when  to  be  had,  otherwise  half  a  lemon,  and  a  little 
sugar. 

SHALOT  SAUCE. 

Chop  six  or  eight  shalots,  put  them  into  a  stew-pan 
with  a  little  stock ;  set  it  on  the  stove  to  simmer  for 
a  quarter  of  an  hour,  then  put  a  little  coulis  and  a 
table  spoonful  of  sbalot  vinegar. 

SORREL  SAUCE. 

Chop  the  sorrel  very  fine  and  squeeze  all  the 
water  out,  and  chop  two  onions.  Put  a  slice  of  ham 
into  a  stew-pan,  and  a  piece  of  fresh  butter,  put  ia 
the  sorrel  and  onions,  and  set  the  stew-pan  over  a 
slow  fire  to  simmer  gently  for  half  an  hour,  then  rub 
it  through  a  hair  sieve,  and  put  coulis  sufficient  to 
the  quantity  of  sauce  wanted.  Just  before  wanted 
squeeze  in  a  Seville  orange  and  half  a  lemon,  a  little 
pepper  and  salt  and  a  little  sugar  to  make  it  palatable. 

CHERVIL  SAUCE. 

Pick  the  chervil  leaf  by  leaf,  (a  large  handful  is 
enough  for  once)  put  it  into  a  stew-pan  with  a  few 
spoonfuls  of  stock,  and  put  the  stew-pan  on  the  fire 
to  simmer  until  it  is  nearly  reduced  to  a  glaze,  then 
put  in  as  much  coulis  as  is  requisite  for  the  quantity  of 
sauce  wanted.  Squeeze  a  lemon  just  before  wanted. 

SAUCE  ROYAL. 

Cut  about  half  a  pound  of  lean  ham  into  thin  slices, 
put  it  in  a  stew-pan,  cut  up  a  small  fowl  and  put  it 


21 

to  tbe  ham,  wiih  a  fiiggot  of  Bireet  herbs,  a  few  blades 
of  mace,  about  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  good  stocky 
eight  or  ten  shaloto)  and  a  head  of  ceUery ;  set  the 
stew-pan  on  the  fire  to  simmer  until  the  stock  is 
entirely  reduced  to  a  glaze,  then  put  in  about  a  quart 
of  the  best  &tock;  let  it  boil  about  half  an  hour,  then 
strain  it  off  and  put  it  into  a  stew-pan,  and  put  it  on 
then  stove  to  reduce  it  nearly  to  a  glaze,  then  add  a 
quail  of  coulis :  season  it  according  to  vfhsii  use  jou 
fiiakeofit^ 

FLEMISH  SAUCE, 

Boil  two  or  three  shalots,  a  sprig  of  thy tne^  and  a  bit 
of  lemon  peel,  a  few  minutes,  in  a  small  quantity  of 
best  ¥tock ;  strain  it  off  and  add  a  little  coulis,  season 
it  with  a  little  cayenne  pepper,  saueeze  a  little  lemon 
juice  in,  and  add  a  little  dust  of  sugar. 

N.  B.  When  you  want  it  white  use  beshemell  in* 
stead  of  coulis. 

HAVIGOTT  SAUCiS. 

Put  into  a  8t)Bw-pan  a  very  small  clove  of  garlicky 
a  little  chervil,  a  little  bnrnet,  a  few  leaves  of  tarragon, 
two  or  three  shalots,  chopped  mushrooms,  tbyme^ 
parsley^  a  little  bit  of  butter^  a  few  spoonfuls  of  stock, 
and  a  little  pepper  and  salt;  put  the  steW^pan  on  a 
slow  stove  to  simmer  very  slow  for  about  ten  minutes, 
then  add  as  much  coulis  as  is  requisite  for  the  quantitj 
of  sauce  wanted,  let  it  boil  a  few  minutes,  then  rul 
it  through  the  tammy ;.  return  it  into  tibie  stew-pai 
and  make  it  hot,  then  squeeze  a  little  lemon  juic9  in 
add  a  little  cayenne  pepper  and  a  little  salt  if  waote^i 

TOMATA  SAUCE.  I 

.The  number  of  tomatas  must  depend  on  the  quanl 
lity  of  sduce  lyanted ;   ^bout  eix  will   jnake  sciav 


Sufficient  for  one  dish.    Put  a  few  spoonfuls  of  good 
stock  into  a  stew-pan,  then  put  in  the  tomatas,    and 
put  the*  stew-pah  Over  a  slow,  stove  to  simmer  gently 
until  the  tomatas  are  nearlj^  boiled  drj,  then  rub  them 
through  the  tammy,  or  a  fine  hair  sieve ;  then  put 
them  into  a  stew-pan,  and  a  bit  of  glaze,  and  a  little 
good  coulis;  make  it  hot  and  add  a  little  cayenne 
pepper. 

ONION  SAUCE,  EITHER  FOR  RABBITS 
OR  ROAST  MUTTON. 

Peel  the  onions  (the  number  must  depend  on  the 
quantity  of  sauce  wnnted)  and  put  them  on  to  boil  * 
when  they  have  boiled  a  few  minutes  change  the 
Water ;  do  so  twice,,  which  will  make  the-  onions  mild  z 
when  done  chop  them  fine  and  put  them  into  a  sauce* 
pan  with  a  little  flour  and  butter^  a  little  cream,  and 
o  little  salt. 

N.  B.  Small  onions  boiled  in  gravy  and  put  under 
a  shoulder  of  mutton  are  very  relishing  and  good. 

SPANISH  SAUCE. 

Slice  one  Spanish  onion,  and  put  it  into  a  stew-^^aH^ 
a  small  clove  of  garlick,  chopped  truffle^  a  little  mace^ 
two  or  three  bay  leaves^  a  little  ham  cut  fine,  a  few 
shalots,  and  a  la^got  of  thyme  and  parsley,  (when  you 
Cannot  get  tniflles  use  mushrooms) ;    put  abotit  an 
ounce  of  butter  andf  a  few  spoonfuls  of  stock :  set  it 
over  a  slow    stove  to  simmer  until  all  the  stock  is 
boiled  aw&y,  then  put  in  a  little  flour,  just  enough  to 
dry  up  the  butter ;  stir  it  over  the  fire  tor  a  minute  or 
two;  then  put  in  a  glass  of  Madeira,  and  as  mucb- 
coulis  as  is  sufficient  for  the  quantity  of  sauce  wanted. 
Boil  it  for  a  £ew  minutes  and  then- rub  it  through  the 
tammy,  and  return  it  into  the  stew-pan  to  make  hot. 
Squeeze  a  little  lemon  juice,  add  a  little  cayenne  pepper 
and  a  little  dust  of  sug;ar» 


J? 


V    .^ 


•  23 

SAtJCE  A  LAREINE. 

Lay  tli^  bottom  of  a  stew-pan  with  lean  liam,  cut 

tip  a  fowl  and  put  it  in  the  stew-^pan  that  has  the  liam^ 

put  in  two  onions,  six  or  eight  shalotd,  two  or  three 

bay  leaves,  ti  feiv  hiadesof  mace,  two  beads  ofcellery, 

a  carrot,  and  a  faggot  of  thyme  and  parsley  *,  put  about 

half  a  pint  of  l>est  stock,  and  put  the  stew-pan  on  a 

slow  stove  to  simmer  gently  for  about  halfan  hour,  or 

until  the  stock  is  nearly  recfuced^  then  fill  up  the  stew* 

pan  with  the  best  stock,  and  be  very  Careful  in  respect 

to  its  boiling  fast,  for  the  slower  It  boils  the  better,  for 

if  it  boil  fai^  it  will  make  it  high  coloured,  and  reduce 

it  too  much.  It  should  boil  for  about  an  hour,  then  strain 

it  off..    Put  abqUt  ibur  Ounces  of  butter  into  a  stcw« 

pan,  some  chopped  mushrooms,  and  some  lean  ham 

tut  very  fine^  put  it  on  the  stove  to  simmer  very  slow, 

so  as  to  ^et  all  the  flavour  from  the  mushroom  and 

ham ;  then  put  in  as  much  flour  as  will  dry  up  the  but« 

ter,  and  stir  it  over  the  fire  for  a  little  while,  then  put 

in  the  stock  that  is  just  strained  off,  a  little  at  a  time, 

keep  stirring  it  while  on  the  fire ;  put  in  as  much 

double  cream  as  will  make  it  of  a  good  colour.     When 

it  has  boiled  for  a  few  minutes  strain  it  through  th^ 

tammy» 

CUCUMSeR  SAtJCfi, 

Phh\  the  cticumbers,  then  tuf  theta  in  quaHei*s,  aiid 
tut  all  th6  seed  out^  tut  each  (juarter  into  fbur  pieces^ 
pare  the  tomers  off)  and  make  them  look  of  an  oval 
shape,  pfe^l  ^s  nMHiy  onibns  as  pieces  of  cucumber ;  the 
bniens  shoilld  be  What  are  called  button  oniony ;  but 
H'hen  )^outig  onions  are  to  be  had,  they  should  have 
the. preference.  Put  the  cucumber  into  viiiegar,  and 
half  as  much  water,  and  a  little  pepper  and  salt :  let 
them  remain  an  hour  in  the  vinegar,  &o.  to  draw  the 
water  from  the  cucumber  ^  then  pour  off  th?  vinegar 


24 

aoid  water,  and  put  as  much  stock  as  will  barely  cover 
them.  Boil  them  down  to  a  glaze,  then  put  as  louch 
coulis  as  you  want  sauce ;  put  it  on  to  boil  for  a  ffeur 
tniHutes.     Squeeze  half  a  lemon,  and  put  a  little 

sugar* 

BROWN  CELLERY  SAt?CE. 

Cut  the  cellery  about  two  inches  long;^  and  put  it 
into  a  stew-pan,  and  a  pint  of  the  best  stock.  Then 
set  the  stew-pan  on  the  fire  to  boil  gently  until  the 
liquid  is  reduced  to  a  glaze ;  then  add  coulis  accordlogf 
to  the  quantity  of  sauce  wanteds 

ROBER  SAUCE. 

Slice  the  onions  and  cut  them  in  dice,  clarify  as 
inuch  butter  as  you  think  you  will  want,  when  done 
put  it  into  a  frying-pan^  then  put  in  the  onions,  keep 
stirring  thera  about,  otherwise  they  will  bum ;  they 
should  be  fried  of  a  nice  gold  colour.  When^done 
put  them  on  the  back  of  a  sieve  to  drain  the  butter 
from  them^  When  the  butter  is  quite  drained  put 
the  onions  into  a  stew-pan,  and  put  as  much  coulis  as 
you  w^nt.^uce,  and  put  about  two  tea-spoonfuls  of 
mustard  to  the  quantity  of  sauce  for  one  dish,  and  a 
little  cayenne  pepper.  Squeeze  half  a  lemon  in^  and  a 
little  dust  of  sugar. 

HARRICOT  ROOTS. 

Scoop  an  equal  quantity  of  turnips  and  carrots,  and 
peel  as  many  button  onions,  (be  careful  in  nat  cutting^ 
the  root,  for  if  ydu  do  the  onion  will  fall  to  pieces) 
put  the  carrots  on  to  boil  in  a  >  little  stock  for  about  a 
<|uarter  of  an  hour  before  the  turnips  and  onions,  let  g 
them  boil  until  entirely  reduced  to  a  glaze }  add  coulis  > 
^uai  to  the  quantity  of  sauce  wanted* 


^ 


35 


LOBSTER  SAUCE. 

Cut  up  a  ben  lobster  in  small  pieces,  about  tbe  size 
'  of  dice;  put  the  spawn  in  the  mortar  with  about  an 
ounce  of  buttter,  and  three  anchovies  washed  and 
boned;  pound  them  togfether,  and  rub  it  through  a 
kair  sieve :  put  the  lobster  that  is  cut  into  a  stew-pan, 
with  about  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter  cut  in  piecesi, 
about  a  table-spoonful  of  flour;  shake  it  about  so  as 
to  mix  it  with  the  lobster ;  then  put  in  about  half  a 
pint  of  water,  put  it  over  tbe  fire  and  keep  stirring  it 
until  it  boils,  (if  too  thick  put  a  little  water,  it  should 
be  rather  thicker  than  melted  butter)  then  put  in  the 
spawn  and  just  let  it  simmer  for  a  minute,  keep 
stiiring  it  while  on  the  fire :  put  a  little  lemon  pickle 
and  corach. 

N,  B.  Crab  sauce  is  made  exactly  the  same  way. 

OYSTER  SAUCE,  FOR  FISH. 

Put  the  oysters  on  to  blanch,  but  do  not  let  them 
boil,  take  the  beards  oflT  and  strain  the  liquor;  put 
butter  into  a  saucepan,  (the  quantity  must  depend  on 
bow  much  sauce  is  wanted)  and  flour  sufficient  to 
tbicken  it,  then  put  in  tbe  oyster  liquor  and  a  little 
water;  set  it  over  tbe  stove,  keep  stirring  it  until  it 
boils,  then  put- in  the  oysters;  add  a  little  anchovy 
^sence  and  make  it  hot  when  wanted,  but  do  not  let 
it  boil. 

SHRIMP  SAUCE. 

.*     Put  the  shrimps  intofi  stew-pan  with  a  little  stock, 

» JQdt  sufficient  to  make  them  hot,  then  put  in  melted 

bytter,  a  little  anchovy  essence,  and  a  little  corach  and 

'  femon  pickle* 

\  c 


96 

DUTCH  SAUCE. 

Slice  a  small  onion  into  a  stew-pan^  a  little  scraped 
liorse-radish,  two  anchovies,  a  little  alder  Vinegaf^ 
und  about  half  a  pint  of  good  stock.  Set  it  on  to 
boil  for  about. ten  minutes,  then  strain  it  through  a 
hair  sieve ;  return  it  intp  the  stew<pan  and  make  a 
laison  of  two  eggs,^  put  it  to  the  sauce  and  ^et  it  on 
the  ^tove  till  it  begins  to  boil,  then  take  it  oiF. 

N.  B.  Keep  stirring  it  until  you  take  it  ofiT  the  fire* 

ANCHOVY  AND  BUTTER. 

Put  about  a  table-spoonful  of  the  essi^nce  of  anchovy 
in  a  boat,  and  then  put  melted  butter  in  the  boat^  stir 
it  up  with  a  spoon. 

MACKEREL  SAUCfi. 

Tie  parsley,  fennel,  and  mint  together,  put  them 
into  a  saucepan  to  boil ;  when  done  chop  them  quite 
fine,  and  put  them  in  a  boat,  and  melted  butter  to 
them  :  mix  them  up  before  thej^  are  sent  to  table. 

SAUCE  FOR  BAKED   MACKEREL;   OR, 
MACKEREL  ALAMAITRE  D'HOTEL. 

Chop  a  few  capers  and  put  them  into  a  stew-pan 
ivith  a  little  stock,  and  set  the  stew-pan  on  a  very 
slow  stove  to  simmer  gentlj^  for  about  ten  minutes^ 
then  add  as  much  coulis  as  you  want  sauce;  put  a 
glass  of  sherry  in^  and  let  it  boil  about  five  minutes  : 
put  a  little  cayenne  pepper  and  a  table-spoonful  of 
^orach. 

SAUCE  FOR  CRIMPT  SALMON,  BAKED  OH 

BROILED.  .  i 

4 

The  sauce  is  made  the  same  as  for  mad^rel  broiled. 


27 


JANDARV  J,  ]805.    No.  1,  BILL  OF  FARE. 


•  FIKST  COURSE. 

Soup  a  la  Reine^ 

K^moved  wi£h  FISH, 

removed  with  a 

HAU\CH  OF  VENTSOX. 


Veal  Olives, 

glazed,  and 

sauce  piquant. 


Calve'sHead, 

hashed  and 

grilled. 


A  Fowl  k  la 

Daube,  i^lazed, 

OBd  muahroom 

lancc. 


A  Neck  of 
Mutttm  braised, 
glazed,  &  a  pu- 
ree of  potatoes. 


A.  Chine  of 
^  -Pork, 
roasted. 


t  Framed 


A  Turkey 

roasted, 

and  truffles. 


SECOND  C0UR:5E. 

Fite  Partridges. 


*  Potted  Ham. 


Ragoiit  Melle. 


Ox  Rumps  au 

Choax,  and 

Spanish  saace. 


A  Loin  of  Lamb, 

boned,  braised, 

30(i  g^lazed,  and 

celery  sauce. 


A  Brfaslof 

Veal, 

raf;ofi*d. 


Beef  Palates, 

forced  &  rulUd, 

with 

sauce  royal. 


Giblet  Soup^ 

Removed  with  FISH, 

removed  with  a 
SIRLOIN  OF  BEEF, 


Mince  Pies. 


Brawn. 


Asparajpii^ 


A  Trifle, 


Three 
Teal. 


::  Frame  t 


Twelie 
,  Lark^. 


Umm 


A  Trifle. 


Mi 


French  Benns 
and  white  sauce. 


Brawn. 


Mince  Pies. 


Macaroni, 


Potted  Hare. 


Txiso  Rab lifts* 


No.  I,  BILL  OF  FARE,  FIRST  COURSE. 

SOUP  A  LA  HELNE. 

Cut  a  few  slices  of  lean  ham,  and  cover  the  bottom 
of  a  stew-pan  that  will  hold  four  quarts ;  cut  up  one 
£>wl,  a  few  slices  of  veal,  a  faggot  of  tli^me  and 


S8 

pwsley,  six  onions,  a  few  blades  of  mace,  and  about 

half  a  pint  of  water ;  put  it  on  a  slow  stove  for  an 

hour  to  draw  down,  (be  sure  that  it  does  not  catch  at 

the  bottom);  when  drawn  down  fill  up  the  stewpan 

with  some  of  the  best  stock,  and  let  it  boil  very  g^ently 

for  one  hour;  take  out  the  veal  and  ibwl,  strip  the 

fowl  from  the  bones,  and  put  that  and  the  veal  into 

the  mortar,  with  two  ounces  of  sweet  almonds,  and 

let  it  be  pounded  quite  fine,  so  as  it  niU  go  through 

the  tammy ;   when  beat  fine  enough,  put  it  into  a 

small  sooppot,  that  will  hold  about  three  quarts, 

and  put  about  two  quarts  of  the  best  stock  that  the 

fowl,  &c.  was  boiled  in;    add  the  crumb  of  three 

French  rolls:    let  it  boil  for  one  hour,  then  rub  it 

through  a  tamm^,  an^  add  about  one  pint  of  cream 

that  l^s  been  boiled :  put  it  into  a  soup-pot,  and  put 

the  sou{)-pot  into  a  stew-pan  of  hot  water,  and  set  it 

by  th#  sicie  of  the  stove  where  it  will  boil  quite  gently. 

Before  you  put  it  into  the  tureen  taste  it,  as  perhaps 

it  may  want  a  little  salt,  or  a  small  bit  of  sugar.     Cut 

the  crust  of  the  rolls,  that  you  had  the  crumb  from, 

into  round  pieces  about  the  size  of  a  shilling,  and  put 

them  into  the  tureen  before  the  soup  is  put  in. 

N.  B.    All  white  soups  should  be  made  hot  by 
putting  the  soup  pot-in  to  hot  water. 

HAUNCH  OF  DOE  VENISON. 

When  on  the  spit  oil  some  butter  and  rub  it  over 
the  venison  with  a  paste  brush,  put  it  on  as  thick  as 
you  can,  and  sprinkle  it  over  with  salt ;  put  two  sheets 
of  paper  over  it;  then  put  paste  of  flour  and  water 
rolled  out  rather  thick;  put  it  on  the  venison,  and 
about  four  sheets  of  paper  on  that;  tie  it  on  very 
tight,  put  it  down  to  roa&t :  baste  it  well,  otherwise 
the  fire  will  catch  the  paper  and  twine ;  it  will  take 
two  hours  and  a  half:  when  done  take  the  paper  and 
paste  off;  baste  it  with  butter,  then  flour  it  well,  and 
sprinkle  it  with  salt :  make  the  dish  very  hot^  put  the 


venison  on,  and  put  some  good  grairj  irnder  it.  Make 
it  aa  invariable  rule  never  to  pour  the  gravy  over  the 
the  meat,  for  this  reason,  it  washes  all  the  froth  from 
it  besides  making  it  eat  insipid. 

N.  B.  All  roast  venison  is  drest  in  the  same  man- 
ner. A  haunch  of  buck  venison  will  take  four  hours : 
be  careful  that  the  venison  has  no  colour  from  the  fire^ 
the  paler  tlie  fat  i?,  the  better  the  venison  is  cooked. 
A  neck  of  doe  venison  will  take  one  hour.  A  neck  of 
buck  venison  will  take  two  hours.  Venison  should 
be  rather  under  than  over  done. 

VEAL  OLIVES. 

Cut  six  slices  of  a  fillet  of  veal,  let  them  be  about 

ten  inches  long^  and  about  four  inches  wide;    beat 

them  out  with  a  flatter  to  make  them  thin,  brush  them 

over  with  an  egg,  (beat  up  white  and  yolk  together) 

spread  a  laver  of  forced-meat  over  them,  then  spriiikio 

pepper  and  salt  and  brush  them  with  egg;  roll  thcin 

up  quite  tight^  and  roll  them  up  in  bacon  cut  thin : 

put  a  little  good  stock  in  a  stew-pan  that  will  just 

hold  them;   cover  the  bottom  of  the  stew-pan  with 

bacon,  put  the  olives  in,  and  cover  them  over  with 

bars  of  bacon,  and  writing  paper  over  that;  put  them 

over  a  slow  stove  for  one  hour,  then  take  them  up 

and  drj  them ;   glaze  them,  and  pour  sauce  piquant 

in  the  dish,  then  put  the  olives  oh,  and  garnish  either 

with  paste  or  croutons. 

A  FOWL  A  LA  DAUBE. 

Bone  a  large  fowl  without  cutting  the  skin;  singe 
it,  pnt  in  it  a  Hmali  piece  of  the  prime  of  a  Weslplialia 
ham,  (about  the  size  of  the  breast  of  the  fowl)  then 
lill  it  with  good  tbrced-meat;  fasten  the  skin  down  with 
a  small  skewer,  put  about  a  pint  of  good  stock  in  a 
stew-pan,  and  then  the  bones  belonging  to  the  fowl,  a 
few  bits  of  ham^  two  onions,  a  few  blades  of  mace,. 

C  3  * 


30 

B  feggot  of  thjme  and  parsley,  tied  up  quite  tight,  and 
a  bit  of  bam ;  then  lay  the  fowl  on  the  bones,  cover 
the  fowl  over  with  bacon,  and  white  paper  over  that ; 
put  it  on  a  slow  fire;  it  will  take  about  one  hour;  it 
should  stew  very  gently :  when  done  pour  the  liquor 
that  it  was  done  in  from  it,  skim  the  fat  from  it,  boil  it 
down  nearly  to  a  glaze,  and  then  put  some  coulis  to  it, 
add  a  few  mushrooms,  squeeze  a  little  lemon  juice  in  it, 
add  a  little  dust  of  sugar;  put  the  fowl  in  the  oven  to 
dry,  then  glaze  it;  put  the  sauce  on  the  dish,  and 
the  fowl  on  afterwards;  garnish  either  with  crouton 
or  paste  baked  for  the  purpose. 

N.  B.  Turkies  for  a  pie,  geese,  duckjEt,  and  game 
of  all  sorts  are  prepared  in  the  same  manner,  only  not 
stewed  above  half  an  hour,  and  not  glazed. 

CALVE'S  HEAD  HASHED  AND  GRILLED. 

Boil  a  calve's  head  that  has  been  skinned  until 
about  half  done,  or  so  as  the  bones  will  slip  out;  cut 
one  side  in  small  square  pieces,  the  tongue  and  the 
.  palate  the  same;  wash  it  in  several  waters,  then  put 
:it  iuto  a  stew-pan  with  as  much  best  stock  as  will 
jieariy  cover  the  meat;  the  other  side  of  the  head 
should  be  scored  and  put  with  the  other;  when  done 
tender  take  it  up,  butter  a  souties  pan,  lay  it  on ;  then 
,Bprinkie  pepper  and  salt  and  fine  herbs  mixed  on  it; 
pour  a  little  oiled  butter  over  it,  then  shake  a  few 
pread  crumbs  over  it,  and  drop  a  little  clarified  butter 
over  the  crumbs,  and  put  it  in  the  oven  to  brown. 
To  make  the  sauce  fur  the  hash  put  about  two  ounces 
of  butter  in  a  stew-pan,  a  little  chopped  shalot, 
parsley,  basil,  marjoram  knotted  and  sweet,  orange 
and  lemon  thyme,  mushrooms,  a  little  lean  ham  cut 
very  fine,  a  few  spoonfuls  of  stock;  put  the  stew-pan 
,,  on  a  slow  stove  for  about  half  an  hour,  then  put  in 
flour  sufficient  to  dry  up  the  butter ;  then  add  the  stock 
that  the  caive's  head  was  stewed  in ;  add  to  it  half  a 
pint  of  Madeira;  keep  stirring  it  with  a  wooden  spoon 


31 

tin  it  boils  (for  by  Icaifing  it  the  flour  is  apt  to  seUle 
at  the  bottom  of  the  stew-f  au^  and  then  burn,  which 
of  course  would  spoil  it);  it  should  boil  \cry  slow  for 
about  ten  minutes;  then  rub  it  turough  the  tamnij, 
and  put  it  to  the  hash;  put  a  few  forced-meat  balls  athl 
egg  bails  just  before  ^^ou  di^h  it  up,  squeeze  half  a 
leaion  in  it;  seasivii  it  with  a  httle  tine  .spice  and  cay- 
enne pepper,  and  a  little  bit  of  sugar,  so  as  to  make  it 
pa.ataole ;  dish  it  up,  and  put  the  grill  in  the  middle. 
N.  B.  A  Seville  orange  is  preierable  to  lemon, 
,  when  to  be  had* 

A  NECK  OF  MUTTON,  WIITI  A  PUR£B 

OF  POTATOES. 

Trim  a  neck  of  mutton  very  neat;  put  it  on  to 
blanch  in  cold  wstter,  when  it  comes  to  a  boil  take  it 
up  and  wash  it  in  two  or  three  waters;  then  Uxy  the 
bottom  of  a  stew-pan  with  sheets  of  fat  bacon,  (first 
put  a  little  stOik  to  wet  the  bottom  of  the  stew-pan) 

Cut  the  mutton  in  the  stew*pan,  cover  it  with  ftLt 
aeon,  and  white  paper  over  it ;  about  a'  pint  of  second 
stock,  put  it  on  a  very  slow  stove,  the  slower  it 
simmers  the  better;  it  will  take  about  one  hour  and  a 
half:  when  done  put  it  in  the  oven  to  dry;  glaze  it, 
and  put  it  in  the  oven  again;  just  before  you  dish  it 
glaze  it  over  a^ain ;  put  the  puree  of  potatoes  on  the 
dish  first,  and  the  mutton  on  afterwards;  garnibbwilh 
carrot  cut  for  that  purpose. 

N.  B.  Another  way  of  doin^  the  neck  of  mutton 
is,  when  trimmed  put  it  on  a  lark  spit,  then  tie  it  on  the 
other  spit;  oil  some  butter,  and  put  it  on  with  a  paste 
brush ;  sprinkle  it  with  salt,  then  cover  all  over  with 
slices  of  fat  bacon,  then  about  three  sheets  of  white 
paper;  tie  it  quite  tis^ht  on;  it  will  take  one  hour  to 
roast;  when  done  take  it  and  put  in  the  oveH  ftis  9i 
few  minutesj  glaze  it  as  directed  above. 

c  4 


32 

A  CHINE  OF  PORK  ROASTED. 

A  chine  of  pork  is  the  neck  chine  of  a  bacon  hog; 
it  should  be  sprinkled  with  salt  and  bung  up  three  or 
tour  days,  at  least,  before  using:  it  will  take  about 
two  hours  and  a  half  roasting;  it  should  be  well  done, 
as  all  pi^  meat  should  be  rather  over  than  under 
done;  the  time  of  roasting  depends  on  the  size» 
8erve  apple  sauce  in  a  boat. 

A  TURKEY  AND  TRUFFLES. 

Draw  a  turkey  three  days  befort  you  want  it  for  the 
table;,  put  about  two  pounds  of  truffles  that  have  not 
been  dressed  or  peeled,  put  some  of  them  in  the  crop ; 
tie  a  string  about  the  neck  quitcf  tight>  and  another 
about  the  vent,  and  hang  it  up  by  the  legs ;  when  ydu 
want  it  for  dressing  tq^ko  it  down  and  truss  it,  take  out 
the  truffles,  pare  one  half,  and  cut  them  in  slices,  and 
put  them  between  the  skin  and  the  breast ;  peel  a  few 
more,  and  put  them  in  the  carcase;  fill  the  crop  with 
white  stuffing  made  in  the  following  manner :  scrape 
veal  and  the  fnt  of  ham  an  equal  quantity,  about  half 
as  much  lean  ham  as  veal,  ham  that  has- been  dressed 
will  answer  the  purpose;   put  all  together  in  the 
mortar;  add  chopped  fhalot,  thyme,  pardey;  when 
pounded  fine  season  it  with  pepper  and  salt,  put  two 
eges  and  a  few  bread  crumbs;  then  fill  the  crop  of  the 
turkey ;  wrap  the  turkey  up  in  sheets  of  bacon,  put 
slices  of  lemon  between  the  breast  of  the  turkey  and 
bone,  wrap  it  well  up  in  paper;  lie  all  on  very  tight, 
then  put  it  on  the  spit,  and  put  it  down  to  roast;  it 
will  take  two  houi^:  put  the  remainder  of  the  truffles 
in  a  stew-pan,  put  to  them  a  pint  of  best  stock,  a  pint 
of  sherry  wine,  cover  them  over  with  fat  bacon;  Uiey 
will  lake  about  two  hours  over  a  very  slow  stove; 
when  done  take  them  up  and  pm  them  as  thin  as 
possible^  cut  them  in  filioes,  strain  the  liquor  they 
were  done  in,  skim  the  M  from  it  very  clean^  reduce 


S3 

it  nearly  to  a  glaze,  put  saflSdent  quantity  of  coulis  to 
it;  and  put  the  slices  of  truffles  in ;  give  it  a  boil  up. 
When  the  turkey  is  done  take  the  paper  and  bacon 
off  it,  glaze  it,  put  the  sauce  on  the  dish^  the  truffles 
as  near  the  side  of  the  dish  as  you  can. 

BREAST  OF  VEAL  RAGOU'D  WHOLE. 

Cut  the  chine  bone  from  a  breast  of  ?eal,  then  cut 
the  tendcrones  out;  (as  they  will  do  for  another  dish): 
cover  the  bottom  of  the  stew-pan  with  bacon,  put  alL 
the  trimmings  of  the  veal,  five  or  six  onions,  a  faggot 
of  sweet  herbs,  a  few  blades  of  mace ;  trim  the  veal, 
and  take  the  skin  off;  put  the  veal  in  the  stew-pan,. 
and  about  a  pint  of  second  stock ;  cover  it  with  bacon, 
and  white  paper  over  that ;  put  it  on  a  slow  stove  so 
that  it  will  simmer  very  gently ;  it  wUl  take  about  two 
hours;  you  will  know  when  it  is  tender  enough  by 
the  bones  coming  out:  when  done  take  it  up  and  put 
it  between  two  dishes  to  keep  hot,  put  in  the  screen, 
strain  the  liquor  off,  and  skim  the  fat  from  it,  and 
boil  the  liquor  nearly  to  a  ciaze;  then,  add  it  to  the 
ragout,  which  is  made  as  follows :  put  about  half  a 
pottle  of  mushrooms  into  the  stew-pan,  wiili  about 
one  ounce  of  butter,  a  little  pepper  and  salt,  and  half* 
a  lemon  squeezed  in  it ;  put  it  on  the  stove  to  simmer 
until  the  mushrooms  are  done;  then  put  as  much  flour- 
as  will  dry  up  the  butter,  stir  it  with  a  wooden  spoon, 
then  add  as  much  heH  stock  as  will  leave  it  a  proper- 
thickness;   let  it  boil  a  few  minutes;   then  put  the 
liquor  that  the  veal  was  done  in,  then  put  a  throat 
sweetbread  cut  in  slices,  a  few  forced-meat  balls,  and 
one  glass  of  Madeira;  glaze  the  veal,  put  the  ragotiit 
on  the  dish,  and  the  veal  on  it:  garnish  with  either 
paste  or  crouton. 

GX  RUMPS. 

Two  rumps  will  make  a  good  dish ;  each  rump  willi 
make  three  pieces;  put  them  whole  into  brown  braise 
to  stew  very  slow  about  two  hourt;,  or  until  you  find: 

c  5 


34 

them  tender,  and  the  bones  will  come  out  without 
breaking  the  meat ;  when  about  half  done  put  four 
bundles  of  savoy  cabbage,  and  a  large  carrot  that  will 
make  four  pieces  the  same  size  as  the  bundle  of 
cabbage;  the  cabbage  should  be  about  half  boiled, 
(one  large  savoy  will  make  four  bundles)  then  cut  in 
quarters,  and  squeezed  very  dry,  and  tied  up  quite 
tight;  put  them  to  the  rumps;  when  all  done,  take 
them  up,  cut  the  rumps  into  what  length  you  think 
proper;  (in  such  like  things  judgment  must  guide) 
take  the  cabbage  up,  squeeze  them  quite  dry ;  cut  the 
carrot  a£  fancy  directs,  put  the  cabbage  on  the  dish, 
and  a  piece  of  carrot  between  each  bundle  of  cabbage, 
put  Spanish  sauce  over  the  cabbage,  and  in  the  middle 
of  the  dish;  glaze  the  rumps  and  put  them  in  the 
middle. 

LOIN  OF  LAMB  BRALSED,  AND  STEWED 

CELLERY. 

Bone  a  loin  of  lamb,  lay  the  bottom  of  a  stew-pan 
with  tat  bacon,  put  in  the  trimmings,  an  onion  or  two, 
a  faggot  of  sweet  herbs,  about  half  a  pint  of  second 
stock,  a  few  blades  of  mace;  put  the  lamb  in,  and 
cover  it  with  fat  bacon,  and  paper  over  that;  put  it 
on  a  slow  stove  to  stew  for  about  three  quarters  of  an 
hour;  when  done,  put  it  aside  until  wanted  to  dish 
up :  glaze  it,  put  the  eellery  on  the  dish  first,  and  the 
lamb  in  the  middle;  garnish  with  paste:  the  eellery 
should  be  cut  in  lengths  about  two  inches,  and  put 
into  a  €tew-pan,  with  about  half  a  pint  of  best  stock; 
put  it  on  the  stove  to  stew  until  tender,  and  the  liquid 
reduced  to  a  glaze;  then  add  as  much  coulis  as 
will  be  sufficient  for  the  sauce. 

SIRLOIN  OF  BEEF. 

A  sirloin  of  beef  will  take  three  or  four  hours,  but 
Ihat  must  Lc^)cnd  on  the  size  and  fire^  before  takeift 


fiom  tbe  fire  sbake  some  salt  and  flour  over  it;  put 
the  gravy  in  the  dish,  and  then  the  beef*  hei  it  be 
an  invariable  rule  to  put  the  gravy  on  the  dish  before 
the  meat. 

GIRLET  SOUP  A  LA  TORTUK. 

*  • 

It  will  take  three  sets  of  gxblcU  to  make  a  good 
tareen :  the  giblets  should  be  put  on  to  blanch,  first 
cutting  them  into  proper  pieces;  bone  the  pinions, 
feet,  and  head,  cut  the  neck  into  pieces  about  one 
inch  long,  cut  each  half  of  th|e  gizzara  into  four  pieces : 
(the  livers  leave  out,  as  they  make  an  excellent  dish 
in  the  second  course)  put  the  giblets,  on  to  blanch, 
take  them  ofi-  when  they  come  to  a  boil,  then  washed 
in  several  waters j  put  them  into  a  small  soup-pot,, 
with  about  two  quarts  of  best  stock;  put  them  on  the 
stove  to  boil  gently  until  tender;  then  pour  the  stock 
from  them,  and  slip  the  bones  from  the  pinions,  feet, 
and  head;  then  put  the  ^blets  back  into  the  80up«pot, 
put  about  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter  into  a 
stew-pan,  with  chopped  shalot,  lemon-  and  orange 
thyme,  twice  as  much 'parsley  a»  any  other  herb, 
knotted  and  sweet  marjoram,  a  little  basil,  two  or 
three  bay  leaves,  about  a  q)iarter  of  a  pound  of  lean, 
ham  cut  very  fine,  half  a  pint  of  stock;  put  it  on  a 
slow  stove  for  an  hour;  then^put  as  much  flour  as  will 
dry  up  the  butter,  then  add  flie  stock  the  giblets  wero 
boiled  in,  and  a  pint  of  Madeira,  let  it  boil  a  few 
minutes,  keep  stirring  it  all  the  time,  then  rub  it 
through  a  tammy,  and  put  it  to  the  giblets;  squeeze  a 
little  lemon  juice,  and  season  it  with  salt,,  cayenne 
pepper,  and  a  vefy  little  fine  spice,  a  little  sugar  to 
correct  the  lemon  juice :  juftt  before  it  is  put  in  the 
tureen,  a  bit  of  butter  about  the  size  of  a  nutmeg  will 
soften  it,  and  make  it  pleasant  to  the  palate. 

,      BEEF   PALATES    ROLLED. 

Boil  six  palates  in  the  brotti-pot/  utltil  nearly 

eft 


36 

tender;  then  take  them  up,  and  peel  and  trim  them ; 
brush  the  ibsMie  with  egg,  lay  a  layer  of  fcyroed^meat, 
eag  it  aver,  and-sprinkle  it  with  pepper  and  galt^  roll 
them  up  quite  tight,  and  tie  them  with  a  string;  put 
them  into  a  white  braize^  and  let  them  stew  gently  for 
about  two  hours;  ^hei)  wanted  take  them  up,  glaze 
them,  make  a  ragoiit  of  the  trimmings,  and  a  few 
very  small  egg  balls;  put  the  ragofit  on  the  dish 
first,  and  the  palates  on  the  ragout;  the  ragoiit  is 
made  as  follows :  shred  the  palates  in  neat  small 
pieces,  and  put  them  into  a  stew-pan;  add  con! is 
and  a  glass  of  sherry  wine,  give  it  a  boil  up,  then 
squeeze  a  little  lemon  juice,  and  a  few  drops  of 
shalot  vinegar;  season  it  with  cayenne  pepper. 

SECOND  COURSE. 

PARTRIDGES. 

Partridges  will  take  bbout  fifteen  minutes  to  roast; 
befoi^  you  take  them  up  baste  them  with  butter,  shake 
a  little  flour  over  them,  and  a  little  salt;  put  gravy  on 
the  dish,  and  then  the  birds.  ' 

N.  B.  Make  it  a  rule  to  hhve  all  the  second  course 
dished  before  the  roast  are  taken  from  the  fire,  as  it 
adds  much.to  the  credit  of  the  cook  to  have  the  roasts 
look  well. 

BRAWN 

Is  generally  bad  at  the  fishmongen. 

POTTED  HAM, 

Cut  the  prime-  of  a  Westphalia  ham,  (or  any  that 
you  may  have  in  the  larder  from  a  late  dinner)  nearly 
as  much  &t  as  lean ;  pound  it  in  the  mortar  ontil  very 
fine,  put  a  little  fine  spice  to  it,  and  season  it  with 
cayenne  pepper;  pound  a  little  more  by  way  of  mixing 
the  seasoning  and  ^pice,  Uien  put  it  into  pots  proper 


37 

for  the  purpose ;  clarify  a  sufficient  qqantit/  of  butter, 
pour  it  over  the  bam,  and  put  the  pot  into  a  slow 
oven,  let  it  soak  for  half  an  hour;  then  take  it  out,  and 
when  settled,  fill  the  pots  up  with  clarified  butter^  and 
send  it  up  in  the  pots^  except  at  particular  times,  then 
turn  it  out  and  garnish  it  with  chopped  aspick,  &c. 

ASPARAGUS. 

Asparag^us  is  tied  up  in  bundles,  about  a  quarter  of 
a  hundrecl  in  each;  put  a  little  salt  in  the  water; 
when  it  boils  put  the  asparagus  in  it;  it  will  take 
about  fifteen  minutes;  make  a  toast,  dip  it  in  the 
water  the  asparagua  was  boiled  in,  put  it  on  the  dish, 
and  the  asparagus  on  it. 

A  TRIFLE. 

Lay  the  bottom  of  the  trifle  dish  either  with  sponge 
biscuit  or  slices  of  savoy  cake,  lay  a  layer  of  macaroons 
and  ratafias  on  the  cake,  pour  a  pint  of  Lisbon  wine 
over  the  cakes,  put  on  the  early  part  of  tbe«day,  so  as 
it  may  have  time  to  soak  into  the  cakes;  when  the 
wine  is  all  soaked  up  put  a  thin  layer  of  raspberry 
jam,  and  on  that  put  a  thick  custard;  the  custard  is 
made  in  the  following  manner :  put  a  pint  of  milk  and 
half  a  pint  of  cream  in  a  stew-pan,  a  few  bits  of 
cinnamon,  the  peel  of  a  lemon,  and  sugar*  enough  to 
make  it  sweet;  put  on  to  boil,  let  it  boil  a  few 
minutes,  take  it  off,  and  put  it  to  cool,  put  the  yolks  of 
six  eggs  in  a  bason,  half  a  spoonful  of  flour,  beat  them 
well  up,  and  put  the  milk  boiled  for  the  purpose  to 
them,  a  little  at  a  time ;  then  sti^ain  it  through  a  hair 
sieve  into  a  clean  stew-pan,  put  it  on  the  nre,  keep 
stirring  it  unfit  it  comes  to  a  boil;  then  take  it  off 
and  put  it  to  cool;  when  half  cold,  put  a  glass  of 
brandy,  with  a  few  spoonfuls  of  ratafia,  then  cover  the 
cakes  with  it,  and  upon  the  custard  lay  apricot  jam ; 
then  put  a  pint  of  good  cream  into  a  bason,  the 
white  of  one  egg,  about  two  ounces  of  sugar^  first 


38 


«x 


rubbed  to  a  lemon,  about  two  glasses  of  white  wine, 
beat  it  up  with  a  wisk,  skioi  the  froth  off  with  a  spoon 
that  has  holes  in  it,  lay  the  froth  on  the  back  of  a 
sieve,  which  should  be  laid  on  a  dish  to  save  the 
drainings  to  return  into  the  pan  again  for  whipping*^ 
lay  the  whipped  cream  on  over  the  trifle,  put  a  few 
harlequin  seeds  over  it :  garnish  with  preserved  oranee 
or  lemon  peel. 

MINCE  PIES. 

Seven  pounds  of  currants^  rubbed  and  picked  very 
clean,  three  pounds  and  a  half  of  beef  suet,  chopped 
very  fine;  three  pounds  and  a  half  of  lean  beef  (the- 
inside  of  the  sirloin  is  best  if  convenient)  minced  very 
fine,  the  beef  should  not  be  drest ;  three  pounds  and  a 
half  of  apples  chopped  very  tine,  a  quarter  of  a  pound 
of  citron,  half  a  pound  of  lemon,  half  a  pound  or 
orange  peel,  all  ciit  very  fine;  two  pounds  of  moist 
sugar,  one  ounce  of  fine  spice,  .^^uch  as  cloves,  nutmeg, 
and  cinoamon,  all  pounded  and  .lifted;  grate  the  rind 
of  six  lemons  and  six  Seville  oranges.  When  all 
selected  mix  the  ci^rrants  and  apples  first,  then  the 
meat  and  suet ;  rub  all  well  togetliep  five  c.r  h\\  times 
over;  the  lemon  peel,  orange  peei,  cition,  aitd  spice 
the  last:  when  all  rubbed  well  together  yut  ii  into  a 
deep  pot,  and  put  over  it  oao  pint  of  brandy  and  one 
pint  of  sherry,  the  jnice  of  the  lenuns  and  oran^fes- 
thnt  have  been  grated ;  then  prese  it  down  well  with 
the  hand,  then  put  one  pint  of  brandy  and  one  pint 
of  sherry  on  the  top^  to  soak  down  by  degrees :  caver 
the  mince  meat  over. 

N.  B.  It  ought  to  be  made  at  least  a  fortnight 
before  it  is  wanted ;  it  will  keep  the  year  round.  I'he 
mince  pie  pans  should  be  sheete^  with,  puff  paste :  as 
for  the  tiute  the^  will  take  in  baking,  it  d^peadson 
the  oven;  a  quick  oven  is  best. 

RAGOUT  MELLfi.      '  : 

What  is  meaat  by  a  ragout  melle,  consists  of  cock»' 


39 

Gombs,  fat  Uv^ers,  pullet's  eggs,  &c.  let  ft!l  be  blanched 
off;  put  the  combs  iotoa  stew-pan  with  a  little  best 
stock,  to  boil  until  it  comeb  nearly  to  a  glaze;  then 
add  the  other  part  of  the  ragoikt,  with  a  sufficimrt 
qoantity  of  beshemell. 

LARKS. 

Larks  will  take  about  ten  minutes,  they  should  be 
rather  under  than  over  done :  baste  them  well  with 
butter,  and  sprinkle  with  bread  crumbs  until  the  bread 
crumbs  stick  to  the  breasts  of  the  larks,  fry  about  a 
plateful  of  bread  crumbs  of  a  nice  gold  colour;  fry 
tbem  in  an  iron  frying  pan  with  clarified  butter  (butter 
without  being  clarified  is  apt  to  burn);  put  the  bread 
crumbs  on  the  middle  of  the  dish,  and  the  larks  round 
them.     Garuish  with  water-cresses. 

TEAL. 

Teal  will  roast  in  ten  minutes,  they  should  be  under 
done;  baste  them  with  butter  tliree  or  four  times  while 
at  the  fire;  just  before  they  are  taken  up  baste  them 
and  sprinkle  a  little  salt  on  them,  and  flour  them; 
put  them  on  a  hot  dish  with  good  gravy  under  them^ 
and  send  pourrade  sauce  in  a  boat. 

FRENCH   BEANS. 

French  beans  should  be  cut  fine :  the  water  shoidd 
boil  before  they  are  put  in ;  they  will  take  about  ten 
minutes :  when  done  strain  them  off  and  put  them 
in  hot  beshemell  ready  for  dishing.  Garnish  with 
croutons  or  paste. 

MACARONI. 

Macaroni  should  be  first  boiled  in  water,  and  a  bit 
of  butter,  for  a  few  mihutes,  then  strained  off,  and 
put  stock  enough  to  cover  it ;  boil  it  until  quite  tender, 
and  has  soaked  up  all  the  stock,  then  put  white  sauce 
and  grated  Parmasan  cheese;  dish  it  up,  and  cover  it 
well  over  with  Parmasan  cheese :  put  it  in  the  ov«b 
a  few  minutes^  have  a  salamander  hot  to  brown  it* 


40 

N.  B.  If  macaroni  be  intended  for  meagre,  use  millL 
to  boil  it  in^  and  make  tile  white  sauce  with  cream. 

POTTED  HARE. 

Bone  a  hare  and  cut  it  up  in  small  pieces,  cut  as 
much  fat  and  lean  ham  as  there  is  hare ;  put  them   in 
a  stew-pan  with  a  bit  of  butter  and  a  little  stock,  somo 
pepper  and  salt,  fine    spice,  and  a  little  cayenne 
pepper:  put  it  over  a  slow  stove  to  stew  for  one  hour, 
then  put  in  a  pint  of  Port  wine,  and  boil  it  until  the 
liquid  is  reduced  to  a  ^laze,  then  put  it  into  .a  mortar 
and  pound  it  until  quite  fine ;    taste  it  to  know  if  it 
want  any  more  seasoning;  then  put  it  into  pots  for 
the  purpose,  and  put  clarified  butter  over  it:  put  it  in 
the  oven  a  few  minutes ;  when  the  butter  is  all  soaked 
into  the  meat,  take  it  out  of  the  oven  and  put  to  cool, 
then  fill  the  pots  up  with  clarified  butter.     Send  it 
up  either  in  the  pots,  or  turn  it  out  and  ornament  it^ 
and  garnish  with  aspick. 

RABBITS. 

Rabbits  will  take  about  twenty  minutes  to  roast ; 
flour  them  well  as  soon  as  they  are  put  down  to  the 
fire,  and  let  the  flour  begin  to  get  brown  before  thejr 
are  basted;  then  baste  them  with  butter  and  flour 
them  again,  by  so  doing  they  will  be  a  nice  brown : 
before  they  are  taken  from  the  fire,  first  baste  them 
and  sprinkle  flour  and  salt :  when  they  are  taken  off 
the  spit  their  heads  should  be  cut  off  and  split  and 
put  round  the  dish.  The  sauce  is  the  livers  and  • 
parsley  boiled  together,  chopped  fine,  and  put  into  a 
stew-pan,  with  a  little  stock  and  melted  butter  put  on 
the  dish  iirst^  and  ,then  the  rabbits. 

BllA  WN 

Is  seldom  or  never  made  at  home,  it  is  generally 
had  from  the  fishmonger:  when  wanted  for  a  second 
course  dish,  cut  each  round  in  four,  put  it  round  the 
dish,  and  chopped  aspick  in  the  micklle^  and  round 
the  side  of  the  oislu 


41 


JANUARY  2.     No.  2,  BILL  OF  FARE, 


FIRST  COURSE. 

Soup  a  la  Flamond, 

Removed  with  FISH, 

removed  with  a 

HAUNCH  OF  LAMB, 

t^ardcd,  glazed ,  &  cucumber  sauce. 


Tenderones  of  ' 
Veal  and 
Troffles. 


A  Fillet  of  Pork 
with 
rober  sauce. 


A  Fowl 
k  la  Ducbesse. 


Two  Chickeos 

boiled  and 
ttrragon  sauce. 


Brisket  •f  Beef, 
stewed,  glassed, 

and 
Spanish  sauce. 


Two  Ducks, 
forced,  braised, 
glazed,  &  olives. 


A  Roulard  of 

Veal, 

iod  mashrooms. 


A  Ham, 

braised, 

<?lazed, 

and  greens. 


i  Frame  1 

t  M  I  I  I  I  T 


A  Loin  of 

Veal 

&la 
beshemell. 


I— t— 


A  Neck  of 

Venison, 

stewed,  and 

barrieot  sauce. 


Two  boiled 

Fowls,  and 

cellery  sauce. 


A  Goose. 


A  Carrie  of 
Rabbits, 
and  Rice. 


White  Collops 
and  Cucumbers, 


Soup  Sante^ 

Removed  with  FISH, 

removed  with  a 

CHINK  OF  MUTTON. 


mim^mm 


SECOND  COURSE. 
Two  Wild  Ducks. 


Mince  Pies. 


Fat  Livers 
incaseft. 


French  Beani. 


Asparagns. 


Mushrooms. 


Apricot  Tourte. 


Fondues 
iu  cases. 


Asparagus. 


Cauliflower  aud 
•:iuce  k  la  reine. 


Shoulder 

of 
Lamb. 


I  Frame  I 


Two 

Pheasants. 


Cauliflower, 
plain. 


Fondues 
iu  cases. 


An  Orange 
Tourte 


Mushrooms. 


French  Beans. 


Fat  Livers 
id  cases. 


Mince  Pies. 


A  Hare. 


42 

No.  g,  FIRST  COURSE. 

SOUP  A  LA  FLAMOND. 

Sbred  turnips,  carrots,  green  onions,  and  one 
Sipanish  onion;  add  lettuce,  half  a  pint  of  asparagus 
peas;  put  them  into  a  s^mail  soup-pot,  a  little  stock, 
and  about  two  ounces  of  butter;  put  them  on  a  slow 
stove  to  sweat  down  for  an  hour,  put  in  as  much 
flour  as  will  dry  up  the  butter;  then  fill  it  up  ^¥ith 
best  stock,  and  let  it  boil  by  the  side  of  the  stove  for 
half  an  hour.  IVfake  a  laison  of  the  yolks  of  f<^ur 
eggs,  (for  two  quarts  of  soup)  beat  the  ^olks  up  well 
with  a  spoon;  put  a  pint  of  crea!Q  that  has  bei^n 
boiled  and  got  cold;  strain  it  tartiugh  a  sieve,  and 
put  a  large  spoonful  of  bebhemeit  to  it:  take  the  soup 
from  the  fire  and  put  in  the  laison,  krep  stirring 
while  putting  in,  then  put  the  soup  on  the  fire;  be 
sure  to  keep  stirring  it  until  it  comes  to  a  boil,  then 
take  it  off:  keep  it  hot  by  putting  the  soup-pot  into  a 
Btew-pan  of  hot  water. 

A  HAUNCH  OF  LAMB,  LARDED. 

Cut  a  hinH  quarter  of  Iamb  into  a  haunch;  lard  it 
and  put  it  on  the  lark  spit,  and  tie  it  on  the  roasting 
spit;  cover  it  well  with  sheets  of  fat  bacon,  and 
writing  paper  over  that,  then  about  twi  sheets  of  com- 
mon roasting  paper;  tie  all  on,  but  not  su  as  to  ]>res9 
the  lardiug  Rat :  it  will  take  one  hour  and  a  half;  it 
should  be  kept  at  a  good  distancfe  from  the  fire :  when 
done  take  it  up  and  put  it  in  the  oven  for  a  few 
minutes,  then  glaze  it ;  put  the  sauce  on  the  dish, 
and  then  the  Iamb.  The  cucumber  sauce  is  made  as 
follows ;  peel  the  cucumbers  aud  cut  them  in  quarter, 
then  in  as  many  pieces  as  you  think  proper,  as  that 
depends  on  the  size  of  the  cucumbers,  and  some  small 
omons^  let  them  lie  in  a  marinade  of  vinegar  and 


43 

wder,  and  a  little  pepper  and  salt,  about  an  hour; 
then  pour  it  oft',  and  put  a  little  stock,  and  put  them 
on  to  boil  to  a  glaze ;  then  add  as  much  coulis  as  m 
requisite  for  the  sauce;  squeeze  lemon,  season  it 
with  pepper  jind  salt. 

A  FOWL  A  LA  DUCIIESSE. 

Cut  either  one  or  two  small  fowls  up,  (the  same  as 
for  a  fiicasee)  according  to  the  size  of  the  flish  it  is 
wanted  for;  put  clarined  butter  on  a  souties  pan; 
lay  the  fowl  on,  and  the  pan  over  a  brisk  stove,  to 
give  it  a  nice  colour;  then  put  it  into  a  stew-pan 
with  a  few  slices  of  lean  ham  and  half  a  pottJe  of 
mushrooms,  a  bit  of  butter,  and  a  little  stock;  put  it 
over  a  slow  stove  to  simmer  gently  for  half  an  hour. 
Shake  a  little  flour  over  the  fowl,  sufficient  to  dry  up 
the  butter;  add  a  little  coulis,  give  it  a  boil  up; 
squeeze  a  lemon  in,  and  season  it  with  a  little  cayenne 
pepper :  dish  it  up,  put  the  fowl  in  the  middle  of  tho 
oish,  the  ham  round  the  side,  and  the  mushrooms  and 
sauge  over  the  fowl.    Garnish  with  paste. 

TENDERONES  OF  VEAL. 

The  tenderones  are  the  gristle  bone  of  the  breast 
of  veal  eut  into  thin  slices :  tirst  cut  the  chine  bone 
off,  and  then  take  the  gristle  bone  out,  cut  it  in  thin 
slices;  put  them  into  a  stew-pan  with  cold  water, 
and  put  them  on  to  blanch ;  when  they  come  to'  a 
Wil  take  them  off  and  pour  the  water  from  them, 
.and  wash  them  in  several  waters ;  then  put  them  intp 
a  stew-pan,  and  have  a  white  braise  prepared  for 
Iheni :  slice  a  lemon  that  has  been  pared  quite  to  tho 
pulp,  and  put  it  in  with  the  tenderones;  cover  them 
over  with  bacon,  and  white  paper  over  that;  put 
them  on  the  fire  to  simmer  gently  for  four  hours,  or 
^util  they  become  quite  tender;  when  done  take 
them  up  and  lay  them  on  a  clean  cloth  to  dry  the  fet 


44 

from  ibeno.  Cut  some  braised  truffles  m  slices?,  nnfd 
put  them  into  coulis,  with  a  little  white  wine,  a  bit  el 
truffle  glaze ;  squeeze  half  a  lemon,  put  a  little  dust 
of  sugar :  dish  the  tenderones  round  the  dish^  and  the 
truffles  in  the  middle.    Garnish  with  paste. 

BRISKET   OF    BEEF   STEWED,   ANO 
SPANISH  ONIONS. 

Cut  the  bone  from  the  brisket  of  beef,  tie  it  up,  and 

put  it  into  a  brown  braise  made  as  follows;  cut  some 

beef  suet  in  small  pieces,  and  any  trimmings  of  aoy 

kind  of  meat,  the  bones  that  you  have  taken  from  the 

brisket,  a  few  onions,  a  large  faggot  of  sweet  herbs,  a  . 

few  bay  leaves,  two  heads'of  cellery,  and  a  carrot,  a 

little  black  pepper  and  allspice,  put  all  into  a  braising 

pan  that  you  intend  to  stew  the  beef,  put  about  a  pint 

of  second:  stock:  put  it  over  the  fire  to  simmer  for  an 

hour;  then  put  the  beef  in,  and  as  much  second  stock 

as  it  will  take  to  cover  the  beef,  cover  it  over  with 

double  white  paper,  put  it  over  a  slow  stove  to.  stew 

gently  until  quite  tender;  put  six  Spanish  onions  in  a 

stew-pan,  and  as  much  second  i^tock  as  will  cover 

thena;  put  them  on  the  8ti>ve  to  boil  until  the  sto^k  is 

reduced  to  a  glaze;  take  the  beef  up,  trim  it,  and  put 

it  into  the  dven  to  dry,  then  glaze  it  with  the  ^laze 

the  Spanish  onions  were  done  in;  glaze  the  onions, 

and  put  them  into  the  oven ;  then  put  to  the  sauce  the 

remainder  of  the  glaze,  by  way  of  giving  it  the  flavour 

of  the  Spanish  onions:  put  the  sauce  on  the  dish,  the 

onions  round  the  side,  and  a  carrot  cut  neat,  about 

two  inches  long,  between  each  onion^  and  the  beef  in 

the  middle. 

TWO  DUCKS  A  LA  DAUBE. 

Bone  two  ducks  and  fill  them  with  forced-meat,  put 
them  into  a  stew-pan  with  a  little  stock,  and  put  it 
over  the  stove  to  simmer  for  a  iew  minutes^  by  way  of 


45 

Mmg  tbem ;  take  the  ducks  out  of  the  etew-pan^  put 
tke  bones  of  the  dacks,  and  whatever  giblets  joa  may 
]ia?e  by  you  from  any  other  poultry,  put  a  few  slices 
of  lean  ham  at  the  bottom  of  the  stew-pan,  then  the 
bones,  giblets,  a  few  onions,  a  faggot  of  sweet  herbs,  a 
few  Imy  leaves,  a  little  mace  and  allspice,  a  pint  of 
good  stock,  half  a  pint  of  sherry;  then  put  in  the 
ducks,  cover  them  over  with  slices  of  fat  bacon,  and 
white  paper  over  that,  by  way  of  keeping  all  the  steam 
iu;  cover  the  stew-pan  up.  close,  and  put  it  over  a 
slow  stove  to  stew  for  an  hour:  whendoue  take  them 
out  of  the  stew-pan,  and  put  them  in  the  oven  to  dry; 
then  glaze  them,  strain  the  braise  the  ducks  were  done 
in,  skim  the  fat  quite  clean  from  it,  put  it  into  a 
stew-pan  to  reduce  it  to  a  glaze ;  then  put  a  sufficient 
([uantity  of  coulis  to  it,  so  as  to  have  as  much  sauce  as 
is  wanted;  then  put  about  two  dozen  of  olives  that 
have  been  scaldeci  and  pared ;  put  the  sauce  on  the  dish, 
the  olives  round  the  sides  of  the  dish,  and  the  duckft 
in  the  middle. 

TWO  CHICKENS  AND  TARRAGON. 

Boil  the  chickens  about  fifteen  minutes;  pick  some 
tarragon  and  blanch  it,  then  put  it  into  a  small 
stew-pan,  and  as  much  beshemeil  as  will  be  wanted 
for  the  chickens:  when  the  chickens  are  taken  up 
they  should  be  put  into  a  clean  cloth,  and  squeezed 
quite  dry,  otherwise  there  is  a  little  water  will  run 
from  the  inside,  and  spoil  the  look  of  the  sauce :  .when 
the  chickens  are  dished  put  the  sauce  over  them ;  be 
psu'ticalar  to  have  the  sauce  a  good  thickness,  as  il 
should  hang  to  the  chickens.    Garnish  with  paste. 

A  LOIN  OF  VEAL  A  LA  BESHEMELL. 

The  loin  of  veal  for  this  dish  should  be  a  veiy  fine 
one :  first  cut  the  chump  off,  as  that  makes  a  handsome 
fiicandeau ;  put  the  veal  on  the  spit,  do  it  over  well 
^ith  oiled  butter,  sprinkle  it  with  salt,  paper  it  with 


46 

double  white  paper,  tie  it  on  with  twino,  put  It  tto  tlie 
fire^  so  as  to  have  it  done  an  hour  before  M^antcd  ;    it 
will  take  about  two  hours  or  more,  the  time  it  >vill 
take  roasting  depends  on  the  size :  when  done  take  it 
up,  unpaper  it,  and  Uy  it  on  a  dish,  the  kidney  side 
downwards;  then  cut  out  the  fillet,  leaving  about  an 
inch  at  each  end,  mince  the  fillet,  and  put  it  into  a 
small  stew-pan  with  a  little  beshemell,  season  it  Tvith 
pepper  and  salt,  squeeze  a  Httle  lemon  juice  in   it^ 
a  few  drops  of  shaiot  vinegar,  and  a  very  little  dust 
of  sugar;  put  the  mince  in  the  place  where  it  was  cut 
out,  cover  it  well  over  with  bVead  crumbs,  and  drop 
clarified  butter  over  the  bread  crumbs;  put  it  in  the 
oven  a  few  minutes,  then  brown  it  with  a  salamander; 
put  the  gravy  that  runs  from  the  veal  into  a  stew-pan, 
and  add  a  little  beshemell  to  it;  make  it  hot,  and  put 
it  on  the  dish,  and  then  the  veal. 

N.  B.  A  loin  or  a  neck  of  veal  that  has  been 
served  up  and  not  cut  will  answer  the  purpose  as 
well  as  one  roasted  for  the  purpose,  by  preparing  it, 
and  putting  it  in  the  oven  to  make  it  hot. 

A  HAM  BRAISED. 

Trim  the  ham,  that  is,  cut  the  knuckle  off  and  pare 
the  under  part;  then  put  it  on  to  blanch ;  put  it  on  in 
cold  water  and  let  it  boil  about  ten  minutes;  then 
take  it  up  and  pull  the  skin  off,  and,  if  it  want  any- 
more trimming,  do  it  before  you  put  it  into  the 
braise;  put  it  into  a  good  braise;  (a  pint  of  sherry 
wine  will  be  a  great  addition  to  the  flavour,*  but  it 
will  do  \e9y  well  without  it)  put  it  on  a  slow  stove, 
the  braising  pan  should  be  covered  down  very  close, 
and  the  slower  it  boils  the  better;  it  will  be  sufficiently 
tender  in  about  two  hours  and  a  half;  if  a  small  ham, 
in  less  time;  you  must  be  guided  by  the  size  of  the 
ham :  w^hen  you  want  to  dish  it  take  it  up,  trim  it, 
and  put  it  in  the  oven  for  a  few  minutes;  then  glaze 
it,  put  either  spinach,  greens,  beans,  or  coulis  under 
it^  according  to  the  time  of  the  year* 


two  BOILED  FOWLS,  AND  CELLERY 
AND  OYSTER  SAUCE* 

The  fowls  should  be  boiled  about  twenty  minutes; 
makelhe  cellery  sauce  ^a  follows :  first  ttim  the  cellerjr 
by  paring  the  root,  and  pull  off  some  of  the  outside 
stalks;  then  cut  it  in  small  pieces,  boil  it  in  clear 
stock  until  quite  tender;  reduce  the  stock  to  a  ^laze, 
th^  put  as  much  beshcmell  as  is  necessary  for  the 
liuaatity  of  sauce  wanted ;  be  particular  that  the  sauce 
is  of  a  good  thickness,  so  that  it  will  hang  to  ^the 
fowls :  when  you  dish  them  put  the  sauce  over  them* 

AROULARD  OF  VEAL,  AND  MUSHROOMS. 

Bone  a  breast  of  veal,  and  beat  it  well  with  tho 
flatter,  (the  more  it  is  beat,  in  reason,  the  better  it 
Hill  keep  its  shape  when  done  and  the  string  takea 
off) :  brush  it  over  with  egg,  then  season  it  well  with 

!)epper,  salt,  and  fine  spice;  then  spread  some  good 
breed-meat  over  it,  roll  it  up  quite  tight,  tie  it  up  with 
twine;  put  the  bones  and  any  other  trimmings  of 
meat  tliat  is  convenient,  a  iaggot  of  sweet  herbs,  a 
few  onions,  bay  leaves,  trimmings  of  ceJlery,  a  carrot, 
ctnd  a  few  blades  of  mace;  put  about  half  a  pint  of 
stock  into  the  stew-pan  and  put  it  on  the  stove  to  sim- 
mer for  an  hour;  then  put  in  the  roular.i,  cover  it  over 
with  slices  of  fat  bacon,  and  white  paper  over  that; 
put  as  much  second  stock  as  will  barely  cover  it,  put 
it  on  the  stove  to  simmer  until  tender;  it  will  take 
about  two  hours ;  try  it  with  a  wooden  skewer,  if  the 
skewer  go  in  easy, you  may  be  sure  it  is  done:  put 
it  in  the  oven  before  you  dish  it,  glaze  it,  put  the 
mushrooms  on  the  dish  first,  and  the  veal  on  it. 

N.  B.  A  breast  of  mutton  is  done  the  ssune  way, 
and  sorrel  sauce,  harricot  beans,  French  beans,  har- 
licot  roots,  and  cucumber  sauce,  are  very  good,  and 
proper  to  be  served  up  with  either  the  veal  or  mutton. 


48 

A  GOOSE. 

A  goose  ivIU  take  about  one  hour  and  a  quarter  to 
roast:  put  chopped  sage  and  onion,  well  seasoned 
with  pepper  and  salt;  do  not  singe  it  till  a  ibw 
minutes  after  it  is  put  to  the  fire ;  after  it  is  singed 
baste  it)  and  be  particular  in  keeping  it  well  basted; 
while  at  the  fire  salt  and  flour  it,  and  baste  it  with 
butter;  just  before  taken  from  the  fire  put  good 
grary  in  the  dish*    Send  apple  sauce  in  a  boat. 

NECK  OF  VENISON   STEWED,  AND 
HARRICOT  SAUCE. 

Lay  the  bottom  of  a  stew-pan  over  with  fat  bacon ; 
trim  the  venison,  put  the  trimmings  in  the  stew-pan, 
with  a  few  onions,  carrot,  cellerj,  and  a  faggot  of 
sweet  herbs,  and  about  a  pint  of  good  stock ;  then  put 
the  venison  in,  and  cover  it  over  with  bacon  and 
^hite  paper;  cover  the  &tew-pan  down  close,  and  put 
it  on  the  stove  to  stew  very  gently  for  about  one  hour, 
or  until  tender,  which  you  will  know  by  the  bones 
coming  out ;  when  done  take  the  venison  up  and  put  it 
between  two  dishes  in  the  screen  to  keep  hot ;  strain 
the  liquor  X)ff  that  it  was  done  in,  skim  the  fat  from  it, 
and  put  it  into  a  stew-pan  to  reduce  it  nearly  to  a 
glaze;  put  the  harricot  sauce  to  it,  glaze  the  venison, 
and  put  the  sauce  in  the  dish  first,  and  the  venison  on 
the  sauce. 

N.  B.  Th«  breast  and  shoulder  are  done  exactly 
the  same  way,  only  remember  to  bone  the  shoulder. 

WHITE  COLLOPS  AND  CUCUMBERS. 

Gut  the  coUops  about  the  size  of  a  crown  piece, 
butter  a  souties-pan,  then  flat  the  collops,  and  put 
them  on  the  souties-pan,  and  cover  them  over  until 
(he  sauce  is  ready  for  them':  peel  two  cucamberB,  cut 


49 

ftem  In  quarters,  anci  each  quarttr  into  three  pieces^; 

J  are  tbem  neat;  and  put  theia  into  a  stew-pan,  with  % 
it  of  butter,  and  a  little  peppjBr  and  salt;  put  it  over. 
a  slow  stove  to  stew  gently  until  the  cucumber  is 
done;  then  put;  asi  njucm  beshernt^l  as  is  wanted, for, 
thecollops;  then  put  tliecollops'over  tfce  stoVe  lor  iu 
few  minutes,  turn. them^  then  put  them  to  the  cu-. 
cumbers^  just  before  they  are  dished  squeeze  a  little 
lemon  juice,  and  a  few  dr^ps  of  shalot  vinegaiyaud  a. 
little  dust  of  augar^ 

^^.  B.  The  coUops  should  be  sprinVled  with  parsley, 
arid  ghalot,  chopped  very  fine,  and  squeezed  very  dry 
in  a  clean  cloth.  • 

A  CURRIE  OF  RABBITS; 

Cut  up  two  rabbits,  tlv^  ^am'e  as  fdr  fricasee,  fry 
them  brown,  and  then  slice  three  onions,  and  fry  tlicm 
a-hice  light  brown ;  (clarify  the  butter  before  you  ify\ 
either  the  rabbits  ot  the  otiions)  then  put  the  rabbity 
into  a  stew-pan,  with  half  a  pint  of  good  stock,  put  it 
over  the  fire  to  sinaTP^^  ^ntly  for  a  quarter  of  an  hotir^ 
then  put  in  the  onions,^  and' let  it  boil  until  nearly' 
rfcdticed  to  a  glaze;  the*il^a({d  a^  fiVifch  beslieniell  as  is, 
i^qufeite.  a  table  spoonful  of  lEafetihdia  currie/powder,, 
and  a  little  cayenne;   raise  a  rim  of  rice  round  'the 
dish,  put  the  rabbits  in  tHe'middle,  aid  the  sauce  and 
anions  over  it.     —    •  ' 

N.  B.     Send  up  ^ome  boiled  rice  on  another  dish. 

VERMICELLI  SOUP,  WHITE  OR  BROWN. 

Blaqch  a  quarter  qf  a  pound  of  vernuicellij  (which 
fe  a  proper  quantity  for  a  tureen  of  soup)  put  it  into 
a  stew-pan  of  cold  water;  wlien  it  comes-  to  A  4)oil 
strain  it  off  and  put  it  into  cold  water,  for  if  it  be  left 
on  the  sieve  it  will  be  lumpy  "\yiiej\  in  the  soup. 
^Vhen  it  has  lain  in  the  water  a  few  mi nutp&  .strain  it 
off  quite  dry :  .put  about  two  quarts  of  the  ]i?est  alcct 


m 

into  A  ithdll  M)lip»p6t,  and  the  rttrmicelli  to  it  j  pili  it 
on  theatcNv^itoboU  quite  6lbw;  as  the  scum  rises  skun 
it4)ff  to.keffritclear:'  If  fof*  White  make  a  laisoa  o^ 
foUf.  jolka  of  «||gs,  a:  little  flouf,  and  a  pint 'of  mod 
cream  that  hae  Deto  boiled:  beat  the  cigip  and  flout* 
livell  up,  then  ptit  the  cr^an^^  ai)d  strain  Jt  throug^h  m 
hair  sieve,  aiid  plli  tlirb^  oi'  ttree  s^oonfuk  bf  besheoiell 
to  it;  add  it  to  the  6o4ip)  If|se{>lttiitiQgit^#btl&' putting 
In,  and  whUe  l)n,  the  ^:  '?iiKhen  it  koines  tda  boil  take 
it  off;  most  likely  it  will  watit  a  little  salt,  as  4be  ver** 
miceEii  aiid  dpeam  Will  tldi^  th6  flavour  <^  the  ham 
from  the  soupt  Put  tfaeaoujj^pflt  latoa  8tew*paa  o^ 
bet  watet  to  keep  it  h(>t  4hiU1  Wanted; 

A  CHINB  OP  MUTTON* 

A  chlbi^  ht  mutton  shouhj  b^  done  with  th^  i^irf 
in  ti:  it  Will  take  ,ab(^4w^houili,btit  thai  depends 
on  the  size;  Wheti  jou  have  tifed  it  on  the  spii 
butter.it  well  WHhxiHlied.:hutter  and  nirinkle  it  with 
salt,  paper  it  find  ^iititd«Wif  to  roast ;  basl^  it,. others 
Wise  the  pa  pet  add^tn  Ine  wiU  tak^  fire. . 
.  N;rB,  All  joints  o|  nlittton  should  be  donii!l  with  th^ 
mvy  in^it)  Uut  not  tinder  done.  Always  use  a  pastel 
brush  to  butter  ^Cuir  meat  witb^  laH  there  is  no  aM 
thing  looks  more  untidy;  than  daubiugl  the  butter  on 
with  thie  handi.  - 

SECOifD  tOURSJ^i 

WILD  CUCKS 

WiU  take  about  fifteen  mtt^utes^  thlgy«iM>i!id  lie  k@pt 
Well  basted  with  butter  duHhg  the  time  they  are  at 
the  fire ;  beftrc  Ibey  af*e  takt^n  trp  ddlt,  flour,  and 
baste  them ;  th^  should  be  what  is  ddl^d  under  dones 
All  Wild  (bWl  should  be  under  done; 

APRICOT  TOUttTE. 

Sheet  the  tart  pan  With  pufi* paste,  put  some  apricot 
jam  in^  cross-bar  it  as  fancy  directs;  bake  it  ratbel 


SI 

Gk  Sometimes  it  i»ajr  hp  i^^a^imlaith  k  <l^lf^  ttt 
3  following: manner;-  sifl  idnie^e  du^jirob  it  ift#r 
it  is  tsukeiL  out  of  tbe^Oiri^  ihkm  «ho^t  wd4M  9tA%^ 
ftiaoder,  oV^t  it  tiU  tha  f  agpr  ii  diellMi  ^  <  '  : 


I*    ♦»♦.-(  ff  ';'' 


:tyt:r*^iJ^iili8JB^€ 


JMd  the  livefB  A <feir  Ainuft^  to  tak^  awdj^^njr 
iMttomess^that  nright  retnain  from^^^^  giXtt  Tay  ^ct^ 
Ob  a  ddth  to  dry ; v&ld  tt  a  pd^e^^  casd  tq  tfie  sisie  of 
tbe  diA  tbejr  ar^'^intelid^  for)  butter  tUe  ease  witi^ 
tlarified  )mtt(^4.  spHiiklp  tk<^  Itv^rs  with'peppef  and 
salt,  and  pot  tteiir  iniiUieidM^  and  Hhen  ih  tra  oven ; 
they  will  not  t^fc^  nnir^.  thmi  fiVe  br  Sx  /niinutes :  put 
the casepa  t;iie  disk  before  Uiejit  i(re,ppt  in  Che ipv^* 

tiratel»al^%^iOt4.of  PariBliisaiitbces^;  pat  a  bit 
bf  butter  in  aj^eWrpani  whrnivatllxA  add  a  few  spoon* 
fills  of  cream,  piA  lA^  clteleee  in  while  on  th^  fire,  9^hd 
keep  stirring  i4<nnfil  it -is^aMBhedyth^li  tak#  it  oflTlhe 
fire;,  put  aliU^ip^PPtf'>Aral:ijafir^  and  a  little  ready 
luade  mustardjQHd  tb^^ctfraof  six  eftgs ;  beat  It  up 
well  ua^il  it.  becomes  lilM^iaI'tl|Kk.iweaiar;'tKe«i^^^^^ 
the  wHit^  or  three  eggs  until  they  becoaa:^  ^Ite'  firni ; 

imtthem  to  the  cheese.-4Htir-all  up  together,  then  put 
t  into  the  papei^<^u^fej[^edv|^  (or  tl|^ ;  ten  minutes 
will  bake  them^Ii^for'OQe  told  the  case  up  yourself^ 
if  for  small  ones  thSFe IMMoi^id^^Id  at  the  turners* 
1^  m^fciflg,M{l^  €as0s*         ,     .' 

,  ,.T{ie  mii$}w0dnHB«}it>u1dbe  pe^i^ted  VeY^  thin  and  put 
Into  water  and  the.juSse.of  a.  teaibti)  as'  it'keeps  'them 
white ;  put  them  into  a  stew<-pi^n^  with  a  bit  of  buttoi^ 
and  a  little  pepper  jaud  saft ;  set  lt4em  over  a  slow 
^tove  to  stew. gently,  for.  abbut^'filtefO  miatiles^  pcit  a 
little  dust  of  flour.  Just  to  dry.jipc  ihaibuitar,  and  a 

m  2 


52 

little  besheraell  if  for  white,  and  coulis  if  for  brown  j 
dish  theria  and  garnish  with  croutons. 

CAULIFLOWER. 

Cauliflower  should  be  cut  in  handsome  pieces 
before  boiled ;  about  ten  minutes  will  boil  them. 
When  done  take  them  up  on  a  sieve  and  drain  them 
well,  put  them  on  the  dish  and  white  sauce  over  them  ; 
^garnish  with  croutons. 

A  PHEASANT. 

A  pheasant  win  take  al^out  twenty  minutes;  keep 
it  well  basted,  flour  and  salt  it  before  you  take  it 
from  the  fire,  put  good  gravy  in  the  dish^  and  send 
bread  sauce  in  a  boat. 

A  SHOULDER  OF  LAMB. 

A  shoulder  of  lamb  will  take  about  three;  quarters 
of  an  hour  to  roast :  finisli  it  and  put  good  gravy  in 
the  dish,  and  then  the  lamb ;  send  mint  sauce  in 
a  boat. 

ORANGE  TOURTE. 

Sheet  the  tart  dish  with  puff  paste,  and  put  orange 
marmalade  in  it:  finish  the  same  as  the  apricot  tourte. 

A  HARE. 

A  hare  will  take  one  hour  to  roast.  Make  common 
stuf&ng  in  the  following  manner :  about  three  hand" 
fuls  of  bread  crumbs,  one  of  fine  chopped  suet,  a  little 
lemon,  thyme,  and  parsley,  chopped  very  fine,  a  little 
pepper  and  salt,  and  two  eggs ;  mix  all  together  and 
put  it  inside  the  hare,  cover  the  back  of  the  hare 
with  fat  bacon  to  keep  it  moist;  when  done  take  the 
bacon  off;  baste,  flour,  and  salt  it :  the  whiter  it  goes 
to  table  the  bettor :  put  good  gravy  and  butter  in  the 
disfa^  and  then  the  hare.    Send  currant  Jelly  in  a  boat. 


/ 


JANUARY  3,  No.  5,  BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Soup  a  PItalienney 

Removed  Tvitb  FISH^ 

removed  with  a 

HAUNCH   OF    VENISON. 


Small  raised 
Mutton  Pies. 


Two  boiled  ^ 
Fowls,  and 
Beshemell. 


A.  Ilarricot  of 
Mutton. 


A  Fricandean, 
glazed,  and 
sorrel  sauce. 


P^tit  P4tes 

of  chirkcn  and 

ham. 


Two  Partridge 
and  Cabbage. 


Fillet  of  Veal, 
i  la  riamond. 


A  Leg  of  Lamb, 
and 
Cuenmbers. 


A  Roast 
Bacon 
Chine. 


^Frame^ 


A  Turkey 

and 
Truffles. 


A  Fillet  of  Mut  J 
ton,  glazed,  and 
irhite  harricots. 


A  Tongue, 

glazed, 
and  greens. 


A  Pheasant, 

stewed, 
and  cabbage.^ 


Petit  P&tes  of 
Sweetbread. 


A  Fillet  of  Beef 

larded,  and 
Spanish  onions. 


A  Harricot  of 
Mutton. 


Two  boiled 

Fowls  and 

Oyster  Sauce. 


Small  Raised 
Mutton  Pies. 


Mock  Turtle^ 

Removed  with  FISH, 

removed  with 

RIBS  OF  BEEF. 


"T«-«««i»»«« 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Woodcocks* 


Savoy  Cake. 


French  Beans. 


Cauliflower  in 
siiuce.  • 


Escn  loped 
Oysters. 


Gooseberry 
Tourte. 


Basket  of 

Pa&try. . 


Asp 


angu»<. 


Smoked 
Salmon,  rn  ca«>ri 


"^^*  ■  ^ 


Ragout  Meilc. 


Mince  Pti's. 


Two 

Rabbits. 


.Frame 


h 


*-•. 


Larks. 


Mince  Pics. 


fc  * 


Ragout  Melle, 


Smoked  . 
Salmon  in  cases. 


Asparagus. 


Basket  of 

Pastrv. 


Currant  Towrto, 


»    ■■■■  ■' 


£scaloped 
Oysters. 


Caul?fl6wer 
*   and  sauce; 


French  Bc:ins. 


Savov  Cake. 


Wild  Ducks. 


54^ 
JV*.  Sj  BlhLOBFAitEi  iFin ST  COURSE.     ' 

••'iTAtiAifj'smjp.-.":    \ 

l}l»ncn  as  iBuc|i  I(fi(i£LQ^pastie  $»l^  siifiocient  mr  a 
tureeii  of  soiip,;  let  it  lie  id  patera  few  mioutes^,  then 
put  ft  into  ^  siTvall  soup-pot  wf^h  about  '^wo  quarts  of 
best  stoek,  let  it  boil  gently' for  about  half  an  hour; 
if  for  wbite«  make,  a  laispn  as  before  directed  im 
page  60. 

SMALL  RAISED  MUtTQNWES:    '   ■\ 

Raise  as  inanj  pies  as.  are  wanted  to  £11  thedasli, 
(for  the  Aort  of  paste  hee  PastrvJ  cutas  ..^ac)i.]^i| 
loin  or  neck  of  mutton  as  w^nted^  aiul.  about  a  quart eii 
a»  much  £it  as  lean,  ipioceit  vei^  tjie  wiihjoutknife^ 
(not  with  a  chop{»ng  kaife)  put  about  51  sppoi^ul'af 
istock  and  a  very  small  bit  of  butfer  into  a  steW'^iM^iL. 
8  little  chopped  thyme,  parsley^  shalot^and  mushrooai^ 


then  the  meat,  and  eeasoa  li  with  f^pn*  and  salt; 
put  it  cfver  the  fire  and  keep  stirring  it  with  a  spoon 
while  on  the.  fire,  two^  or  three  mtnutesisiottg^etiMi^h; 
put  it  to  cool,  then  fiU  the  pies  and  fiank  tSem  p  j^ut 
a  little  stock  And  oonKs  ta  the  meat  that  is  left,  Bkall^ 
it  hot,  and  when  the  pies  are>  baked  cut  tlie  tops  cdT 
and  fiU  them,  up  quite  fidl  with  it ;  disb^  them  on  < 
napkin.      ^  '    "*•      , 

N.  B.  AH  raised  |iies  and  paste  look  best  disk^ 
on. napkins. 

BOILED  FO^VLS  AND  BESHEMELL. 

'  Skewer  the  fowls  and  draw  the  legs  in,  tii^  them 
down  as  they  are  rerj  ant  to  break  out,  bbif  them 
about  twenty  minutes^*  taW  them  up,  piltthem  in  4 
clean  cloth,  and  make  them  quite  dry ;  dish  them  and 
put  the  sauce  over  them.  ,,    , 

FILLET  OF  VEAL  A  LA  FLAMOND, 

.  Pauh  t.fiUet  of .  veal  with  ibaoon  rolled  in  <  fin# 
lierbs)  fine  spice^  cayenne  pepper,  and  a  little  salt^ 


55 

Ctit  en  the  ^it,  tpytt  tile.  Ven!  vl^how^^  with  1^ 
^n,  and  white  paper  oy^ri  tha^;;  tie  it  ti«;ht  oii| 
put  it  down  to  the  fire  so  as  to  allow  it  about  three 
Mars.  When  dpne  wad  wanted  take  U  up,  take  the 
bacon  off  it,  glasse  it,  and  put  sauce  Flamond  ia  tlof 
fiisii)  and  then  the  Teal :  garni^i  with  paste. 

A  NECK  OF  PORK,  ROASTED: 

A  neck  of  pork  will  take  nearly  two  hpuri  to  roast ; 
that  depends  oti  the  size.     Saw  the  chine  bone  oil** 
and  take  out  the  blade-bone,  put  thdpped  sage  mu{ 
onion  where  the  bone  was  tsiken  out,  skewer'it  dowii* 
and  score  it.    Send  apple  sauce  in  a  boat. 

N.B.  Pork  F^tiould  oe  well  done,  either  rodftferf  or 
IbHed ;  there  should  not  be  the  least  appeaiunce  gf 

'■  HiiRRICOT  OF  MUTTON.  ; 

,  C«i  either  a  nedi  or  Iota  of  mutlon  iiito  chops^  puf 
^'little;  cknrifted  fotitter  io^o  ai  (tying  pion^  when  qiittti 
wputtiae.  cbops  in,  fry  tbem  of  a  light  browh^  season' 
li^m.  with  peppar  and  salt,  whea  brown  on  bothr 
ide^f  fliut  th^m  into  a  atewpan  witH  as  muclrfitbck 
88  will  cover  them,  then  cover  them  over  with  papery 
|i)d  liofer^thergtiew^pan  down- «}jG^e.cIoi8e^  put  tt  6vi  a 
MOW  stove  to  simmer  quite  gently  until  tender.'  Wheir 
wanted  put  them  round  the  dish,  and  the  sauce  in 
^e  midole.  .    :  .    '  .    ]       ;  -i 

^N.  B.  The  liqpor  thiey^  were-  don^^  inr  should  he 
^mmed  and  boiled  nearly  down  tp  p  glaserrtind 
^dedtothe  sauce.  .  Uarnooi  o£  vc^iiiapp  i»done  ia 
we. same- wa^..  ,   ,^ -.  .    .  .-,,  .,.  ij,_   .,)....    ..    \ 

A  FRICANDEAU  AND  SORREL  SAUCLV  * 

Cut  the  fricahdeau  frbnr  the  M  sid6  of  a  "li^g  of 
^9  takci  ihff  ^n^oSy  trim  it  neat^  and.lard  jt^;  abd 


then  put  it.iqto  a  fiite^^pan  wWxdrt,  waler,*<8ind  put 
it  on  the  fiie  ;  when  it  ^oix^Ss-n^nrly  .tONa  boil  take.it 
off  antl  >Vi5«ik,lr<e  ^ur^^off^^  fehe^^pufc  ^y^ trimmings  of 
veal  pr  jiuiUon  ^oto  .the  stew-pen,  and  three  or  four 
qnio^Ds,  a  ifaggot  of  syveei  herbs,  ^  few.bjadesK)f  mac^^ 
tnree  or  four  bay  leaves,  and  o.ue  piiitiOjf  stpdi  ;.  then 
put  in  the  fricandeau,  cover  it  well  over  with  bacon, 
and  then  wtite  pa.pei^;  set  it  pn-.a  sjow  istove  to 
fcimmer  until  quite  tender.  When' done  take  it  up 
and  take  the  baiDon  oGi  put  it  in  the  oveii  ^a  few 
minutes  to  harden  the  bacon,  thenglaze.it:  pot  the 
sauce  in  the  dishy  and  then  the  veal :  garnish  either, 
with  croutons^  paste,  or  carrot.  "    • 

A  FILLET  OF  MUTTON,  AND  HARRICOT 

. .   ■      ■'  beans;  . 

A  fillet  of  mutton  means  a  loin,  the  chump  end  cut 
ofi'and  the  cfiine  bojie  sawed  off;  drese^itin  the  same 
manner  as  the  fri<?andeau,  and  finish  the  saijie.  3Put 
the  beans  on  the  dish, and  thexi  the  mutton:  garnish 
with  paste.  .  '  \  "* 

TWO  FOWLS  AND  OYStJE^  SAUCE.. 

Boil  the  fowls  as  before  directed  :  make  the  bj^^ter 
sauce  as  follows:  blanch  and  beard  four  dozen'  of 
oysters,  strain  the  liquor  through  a  fine  sieve,  put 
two  ounces '  of  butter  into  a 'stew-pan,  when  iheltecf 
put  ^  flour  sufficient  to  dry  it  up,  then  add  the  liquor 
belonging  to  the  oysters,  a  little  cream,  and  a  few 
spoonfuls  of  beshemell ;  let  it  boil  a  few  minutes, 
(it  should  be  thicker  than  white  sauce  irt  g^eral  is, 
as  the  oysters  always  discharge  a  little  liquor)  then 
put  the  oysters  in,  but  do  not  let  it.  boil,  only. keep  it 
hot  until  wanted  ;  dry  the  fowls-well  in  »  dean  cloth, 
put  them  on  the  dish, .  aad  the  sauce  oiVer  them }  gar- 
nish  with  lemon  and  paste. 


TONGUE,  GLAZED. 

A^  neat's  toBgue  will  take  aboat  three  hours  boiling ; 
when  done  put  it  into  cold  water  a9  it  will  peel  the 
better^  trim  it  and  keep  it  hot  until  wanted ;  trim  it 
neat  and  glaze  it ;  put  either  turnips,  greens,  or 
spinach  on  the  dish,  and  then  the  tongue ;  by  way  of 
%  change ;  you  should  garnish  the  tongue  with  carrot 
and  tarnip  roses  :  garnish  the  di^h  with  carrot  cut  for 
the  purpose. . 

MOCK  TURTLE;. 

Scald  a  calve's  head  with  the  skin  on,  saw  it  open, . 
take  out  the  brains,  tie  the  head  up  in  a  clean  whtto  • 
cloth  and  put  it  on  to  boil  fpr  about  half  an  hour,  tlu^a 
take  it  up  and  strip  the  meat  from  the  bones,  and  cut 
it  in  small  square,  pieces;   put  the  meat  into  cold, 
water  to  keep  it  white,  then  drain  the  water  from  it 
and  put  it  into  a  soup-pot,  with  as  mud]  best  stock  as 
willcbyer  it;  let  it  boil  gently  until  quite  tender.  Put 
half  a  pound  of  butter'  into  a  stew-pan,  a  few  spoon- 
fuls of  stock  to  keep  the  butter  from  burning,  about 
half  a  pound  of  lean  ham  cqt  very  small,  chopped 
mushroom^  parsley,  shalots,  sweet  marjoram,  knotted 
i^arjoram,     lemon     and     orange    thyme,    and    two, 
Anions  chopped,    and  some  basil :   put  all  into  the 
stew-pan,  put  it  over  a  very  slow  stove  to  sioimer 
gently  for  about  an  hour;  when  it  has  been  on  about, 
a  quatrter  of  an  hour,  put  about  half  a  pint  of  best, 
stock  to  it,  and  let  it  simmer  for  three  -quarters  of  an 
hour  longer;  then  put  as  much  flour  as  will  dry  up 
the  butter,  keep  stirring  it  over  the  stove  for  a  few 
minates,  then  add  as  much  stock  as  is  sufGcfent  for 
the  Quantity  of  soup  that  is  wanted ;  put  in  a  bottle  / 
of  Madeira,  let. it  boil  a  few' minutes,  then  rub  it  , 
through  a  tammy,  then  pat  it  to  the  calve's  head  ;^ . 
put  in  forced-meat    balls  and   egg  balls,   the,  balls  ^ 
should'  be  boiled  in  best  stodk  before  added  to  the 


calve^shead.  Sessoii  it  witl(  ^jmjke  pf9>l]^r  ail4.il 
little  ^ne  spice ;  sqli^ze  HWd 'Seville  bianges  into  i 
bason,  strain  the  pips  from  the  juice,  put  a  little 
sugar  te  it  wd  )>ut  ittoithd^^^dujii^  ftdSl  A  little  sail 
if  wapted^  .  ^  :.'   A. 

KIBS  OF  BEfJR 

The  time  U  will  take  to  roast  depends  on  the  siz^ 
and  v^eig^t.  Butter  the  beef  and  sprinltle  i| 
uritb  salt,  paper  it,  and  put  it  down  to  the  fire ;  keep 
it  well  bfi^sted.  When  done  take  the  paper  oJST,  baste 
it  with  butter,  then  flour,  and  Sjalt  it,  and  put  gravjr 
in  the  dish# 

A  FILLET  OF  BEEF,  LARDED,  &c. 

Cut  the  fiUet  from  a  sirloin  of  bee^.  leave  some  ot 
fhe  fat  to  it,  trim  it  and  lard  it,  toen  put  it  in  a 
liiarinade  made  as  follows.  Lay  the  fillet  in  a  deep 
dish,  pour  a  little  sallad  oil  over  it,  slice  two  oniona 
and  laj  them  on  the  beef,  a  few  bay  leaves,  thyme 
and  basil,  a  carrot  sliced,  two  heads  of  cellery,  a  few 
blades  of  mace,,  half  a  pint  of  vinegar,^nd  half  a  pint 
of  white'wine — pour  them  over  the  beef;  this  should 
be  done  the  day  before  it  is  wanted.  Put  some  trim* 
uiing  of  any  kind  of  me&t  into  an  oval  stew-pan  tliat 
will  hold  the  beef,  about  a  pin|  of  good  stpck,  then 
lay  the  beef  in  and  p/»ur  the  marinade  over  it?  CQvec 
ii  itith  bacon  and  paper,  and  pu(  it  over  a  slow  stove 

until 
the 
glaze  it,'  Strain 
theliquor  that  it  was  done  in,  sliim  the, (at  Vf^ry  clean 
from  it,  put  It  Jnto  a  stew-pan  and  re^diice  it  nesurly  t» 
a  glaze,  theln  ^dd  as  much  epulis,  as  yqu  ,want  sauce^ 
Pot  fbiir^'hple  Spabish  ohioiis  Into  a  stew-pan,  ai)i( 
soifoe  g^d  stock ;  when  dope  take  ihein  put,  feducc^ 
t^e  Kduor  to  a  k^V^j  and  glaze  (he  iejs^  fLUO  oniom 
WitVit ;  what  g^^  left  put  to  ibe  s^uce. .  Pi^tj  Ina. 
sauce  t)n  the  £sh,  .and  thep  the  ^et.:  .put  t)ie  oniAnf 


S9 

Miid'die  ^ii,  with  a  piece  of  carrot  between  eack 

hEG  OF  liiiMB  AND  CUCUMBERS. 

A  leg  of  lamb  will  t^ke  rather  better  than  an  hour 
<k>r(Mist :  put  it  on  the  spit,  butter  and  talt  it,  then 
paperitand  tie  it  on.  When  done  take  it  up  and 
glaze  it:  put  the  sauee  on  the  dish,  and  then  the  lamb, 

PARTRIDGES  AND  CABBAGE. 

Draw  the  legs  of  the  partridges  in,  (the  same  as  a 
eliicken  for  boiling)  put  any  trimming  of  poultry  that* 
may  be  convenient  into  the  stew-pan  that  you  intend 
for  the  partridges,  th^  necks  and  gizzards  of  the  par<^ 
tridges,  (and  the  same  of  any  other  game  or  pomtrj 
that  is  getting  ready  for  dressing)  add  about  half  a 
pint  of  good  stock,  three  or  four  onions,  a  faggot  of' 
sweet  herbs,  a  few  hay  leaves,  and  a  few  blaoes  of 
mace;  then  put  in  the  partridges,  cover  them  .well, 
over  with  bacon.  Boil  a  savoy  cabbage  for  a  few 
minutes, ^o  as  to  be  about  half  done,  pot  it  into  col4 
water,  and  make  it  up  into  four  bundles — it  should! 
be  squeezed  Very  dry  first  with  the  hand,  and  after- 
ward<<  iti  a  clean  cloth,  then  tied  up  quite  tight,  and 
pit  in  the  st^iV-pan  With  the  partridges;  add  a  gill  of 
Aeny  wine,  cover  them  down  close,,  and  put  them^ 
on  a  slow  fire  to  simmer ;  they  will  take  about  an^ 
houn  When,  done  pour  the  liquor  from  them,  skim. 
tbe  Ski  quite  clean  from  it :  put  a  small  bit  of  butter 
in  a  stew-pan,  when  melted  put  as  much  flour  as  wiUL 
dry  it  Bp,  then  put  the  liquor  the  partridges  werei 
done  in;  let  it  boii  a  few  minutes,  then  take  up  the 
partridgetir  and  cabbage  arid  lay  them  on  a  clean 
doth  to  dry  the  fat  irool  theih ;  piitthe  partridges  oip. 
the  diab,  andt  ilie  cabbage  round,  with  a  piece  o£ 
^rrot  between  each  bundle^,  pour  th<r  saufe  ov^  th^ 
^rlrtd^es  and  cabbage.  ,  •«   ,  . 

N.  B.:  FoUow  the  saimis  kethdd  £bir  a  phemnt  #ii4 
•abbage.. 


^ 


60 
SECOND  COURSE.  ■        -t 

Savoy  cake.^ 

BASKET  OF  PASTRY 

Means  a  gum  paste  basket,  filled  with  any  kind  of 
&ncy  pastry. 

GOOSEBERRY  TART 

At  this  time  of  the  year  is  made  with  bottled 
goosebeiTies.  Sheet  the  tart  pan  with  short  paste,  put 
tiie  gooseberries  in  with  a  sufficient  quantity  of  sugar, 
and  cover  it  over;  boat  up  the  white  of  an  egg,  brush 
tlie  tart  over  with  the  egs^^  and  then  sit\  some  fine 
lump  sugar  over  it ;  bake  it  in  a  slow  oven. 

ESCALOPED  OYSTERS. 

Blanch  the  oysters,  beard  them,  and  strain  the 
liquor:  put  a  bit  of  butter  into  a  stew-pan,  when 
melted  pour  some  into  each  scollop  shell,  when 
nearly  cold  spread  it  over  the  shells  with  a  brush, 
then  put  in  the  oysters  with  a  little  pepper  and  salt, 
then  the  liquor  belonging  to  the  oysters,  coyer  the 
oysters  well  over  with  bread  crumbs^  and  drop  a  little 
oiled  butter  over  the  crumbs,  and  put  them  in  the 
ovcri  to  brown.     ~    .   ' 

SMOKED  SALMON 

Is  generally  had  from!  the'  oilman :  it  is  ciit  in  Chin 
slices  hWil  piU  in  paper  cases  folded  up  fbr-tlle'pur-> 
pose ;  the  reuses- should  be  buttered  before  the '^almen 
IS  {>ut  into  them  ;  put  them  in  the  oven  for  slifew 
roinutesj  drop  a  little  oiled  batter  over  th^^aIifi(>ti<IO' 
keep  it  moist.  •  >    '  •      •  1 

WOODCOCKS  i' J    I 

Will  take  about  fifteen-  minutes.     Put  a  toast  on  a 


JANUARY  4.    No.  4,  BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 

Vermicelli  Soup^ 

Removed  wi^  FISH, 

removed  With  a 

HA.M,  braised,  jrlazed,  &c. 


A  Civet  of 
Hare. 


Leg  of  Lamb 

boiled, 
Loio  fried,  and 
spinach. 


Two  Ducks 

braised, 
and  turnips. 


Shoulder  of 

lamb  larded, 

and  sorrel  sauce. 


•  Tenderones  oi 
Lamb  k  la  poulei 


'Pwo 
Boiled  Fowls, 

and 
cellery  sauce. 


A  Breast  of 

Veal 

k  la  Flamond, 


Veck  of  Mutton, 
larded,  glazed, 
and  carrot  peas. 


Raised  Pie, 
with  Par- 
tridges. 


i  Frame  i 

1 1»  t  t-Mt 


Raised  Pie. 
with  Wood- 
cocks. 


Afilleftof 
Por|(  i^ifded, 

and  rober  sauce. 


A  Roulard  of 
'  Mutton,  and 

cucumber  sauce 


A  Neck  of  Veal 
in  la  Besheineifi. 


t'         ■  *    *     ' 


A  llfHtelot.of 
..    .Kels, 


•^••tm^ 


A  Fowl  forced, 

larded,  glazjod, 

and  endive. 


Ox  Cheeks, 
braised,  glazed 

and 
harricot  roots. 


A  salt  Chide 

boiled,.' 
and  greens. 


.A  Salmie  of 
'VYild  Duck. 


ihmkp  and  tiouUliej   . 
'^"ftemovedVithFlSH, 
^•'^''•'    femonred-WkhHt'  ■     -^    •'' 
CHINE  OF  MUTTON. 


SECOND  COURSE. 

Two  Pheaaanis^ 
One  larded. 


Raspberry 
Cream. 


French  Beans 


Piths  an  Gratin. 


Mince  Pi«s. 


An  Omelet 
Souffle. 


Jelly  Marfor^. 


Asparagus. 


Lobster. 


Cheesecakes. 


Broiled 
Mushrooms. 


Six  Snipei. 


I  Framed 


Two  Dun 
Birds. 


'M'Oihrooms 

,with'beshei|iell. 


Cheesecakes. 


Dressed  Crab. 


i      1 1  T~ 


Asparagus. 


t. .  ■  ■  < 


Jtelly  Marbrg, 


An  Omelet 
Souffle. 


Mince  Pies. 


Piths  auOratin. 


French  Beans, 
wtt'h  beshemell.  ' 


■»    ■■  ■ 


•  *    '• 


Gederata  Cream 


■4.--*.. 


It 


GS^ 


JTo,  4,  BILL  OFPJR^r  FIRST  COURSE. 

TENDERONES  QF  LAMB  A  LA  POULET. 

Cut  tbe  chine  bane  of  ti  breast  of  Iamb,  .and  «kin'. 
the  fat  part ;  cut  the  breast  in  siji  pieces^  put  them^ 
into  a  steW'pan  with  cold  watek*  and  put  it  on  tfie  fire; 
when  it  oomes  to  a  boil  take  it  off  and  Wash  tliem  in^ 
cold  water^  then  ptrt  them  into  a  stew-pan  with  a: 
pint  of  best  stock  ;  peel  a  lemon  and  cut  it  in  slices,: 
and  put  it^over  the  lamb,  put  bacon  over,  and  paper- 
over  all:  set  the  stew-pan  over  a  slow  stoTO  io^ 
simmer  until  tender,  which  will  be  known  by  the* 
bones  coming  clean  out :  take  them  up  and  lay  ihenr' 
on  a  clean  3otb,  put  them  on  the  dish  and  white 
sauce  over  them  :.  garnish  with  paste*. 

A  CIVET  OF  hare; 

A  hare  that  has  been  roasted,,  so  as  not  too  dry,  wiR? 
dio :  cut  it  u^  z&  neat  as^  yoti  can,  and  leave  as  littie^ 
bone  as  possible,  put  the  trimmings  into  a  stew^n* 
with  two  or  three  onions,^  a  foggot  of  sweet  herbs,  a 
few  blades  of  mace,  a  pint  of  good  stock>.  and  half  a  . 

e'  it  of  port  wine;  put  it  ov^r  the  stov«  to^simiBer' 
an  lK>ur^  then .  strain  it  ofi.    Put  a  small  piece  of 
butter  into  a  stew-pan,  wh«L  melted  put  in  as  muoh 
iour  as  will  dry  it  up,  keep  stirring  while.on  the  fire^ 
then  put  in  the  liquor  that  the  tvimming  of  the  hare 
"^as  stewed  in,,  put  it  on  the  fire  to  boil  a  few  minutes,  ' 
then  put  in  the  bare,  and  set  it  by  the  side  of  the 
slove  to  keep  hot — ^it  should  pot  lK>iL'    Peel  about 
1)wo  dozen  of  onions  and  boil  them  in  averyjiltlw 
^pod  stocky reduo^. it  neaviyvto  a  glaze ;  wh(ait.donb  put- 
ibe  pqion^  and  what  they,  were  boiled  in  to  the  harey  ' 
^i»B8on  it  with  a  4ttlle  cayenne  aad  salt  if  waBted|. ' 


squeeze  half  a  lemon  in,  and  put  a  Ktde  dait  of  sagar; 
when  you  cUih.it -.put  the  hare  on  the  dish  first,  uiea 
the  sauce,  and  tli^  onions  on  the  top. 

tEG  OF  LAMB  BOILED^  IGIN  FRIED* 

-Theleg'riiaQldbe  put  into  water  an  hoarbeforf* 
put  on  to  boi)  ^  it  will  take  one  hour  and  a  half  to* 
boiL  ^Cut  the  loin  into  cutlets,  clarify  a  sufficient 
^antity  of  butter  that  will  fry  them,  foe  very  par* 
tjcular  in  having  the  firying-pan  yety  clean ;  put  the 
elarilied  butter  into  the  firying-pan,  when  hot  put  the 
sutletB  in  and  fry  them  of  a  niee  lieht  brown ;  pot 
tbeqiinach  round  the  di^h^.the  lamb  in  the  middle,, 
tod  the  cutlets  roand  the  boiled  lamb  \  garnish  with 
ffirrot  cat  for  the  purpose* 


« *• 


BREAST  OF  VEAL  A  LA  FLAMOND. 

Cover  the  bottom  of  a  stew-pan  with  bacofii  trim^ 
the  veal  to  the  size  of  (hedish  you  in|^nd  for  it,  cut 
the  chine  bone  oflTand  take  the  skin  oR  the  thin  part, 
pot  the  trimmings  ifito  the  stew-pail,  a  &g^got  of 
sweet  berbf)^  a  few.ba^  leaves,  a  few  blades  ol  hsace, 
and  three  or  four  onions ;  put  about  a  tf uart  of  good 
slock;  put  the  veal  in  and  cover  it  with  bacon,  and' 
p.aper  o:yer,  .add  half  a  pint  of  sherry  wine ;  put  it  on 
a^siow  stove  to  simmer,  fluently  nntil  the  rib  bones  will 
pnll  out,  then  pour  the  liq^uoi?  off  and  skim  the  fiit  from 
it  Put  a  bit  of  butter  into  a  stew«»pati  with  half  a^ 
pottle  of.  mushrooms  and <  a  litlle  pepper  and  selt, 
fi^aeese  half  a  Jemoji  in,,  put  them  on  tf  slow  stove 
for  about  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  then  put  as  mudr 
flour  as  will  dry  up. the  butter,  add  the  liquor  that' 
t|ie  veal  was  doine  in ;  put  it  on  the  stove  to  boil  for  a 
&w  minutes,  put  a  few  drops  of  shaloi  vinegar,  and  a 
little  dust  of  sugar:  put  the  veal  on  the  diw  find. the 
sauce  over  it:  add  a  fow  dr<^a  of  soy  to  colour  th» 
lauce*::  .'•   .i  ■• .  •  ■'••  ••'''^*   •'  •' 


64 

TWO  DUCKS,  POliCED  AND  braised: 

Bone  the  ducks  and  fill  them  with  forced-meat^  put 
the  bones  and  any  other  trimmings  of  poultry,   such 
as  necks,  gizzards,  &c.  into  a  stewpan,  put  in  a  pint 
t)f  good  stock  and  half  a  pint  of  sherry  wine,  a  few 
anions,  bay  leaves,  blades  of  mace,  and  a  faggot  of 
sweet  herbs ;  then  put  in  the  ducks  and  cover  them 
with  fiit  bacon,  and  paper  oyer  that;  put  thena  on  a 
slow  stove  for  two  hours,  to  simmer  very  gently ; 
when  done  strain  the  liquor  from  them,  skim  the  &t 
very  clean  from  it  and  reduce  it  to  a  glaze,  then  put 
as  much  coulis  to  it  as  you  think  you  will  want  sauce  : 
scoop  a  sufficient  quantity  of  turnips  to  go  round  the 
dish,  fry  them  in  clarified  butter,  let  them  be  a  nice 
light  brown,  put  them  in  the  sauce  and  give  them  a 
boil,  then  take  the  ducks  up  and  glaze  them ;  put  the 
sauce,  in  the  djsh,the^  turnips  round  the  side,  and  the 
ducks  in  the  middle. ' 

A  NECK  OF  MUTTON,  LARDED,  AND 

CARROT  PEAS. 

Trim  a  neck  of  mutton,  saw  the  chine  bone  off, 
skin  the  fat,  strip  the  ribs,  and  cut  the  bones  about  two 
inches  shorter ;  lard  the  fillet,  put  trimmings  of  any 
sort  of  meat  into  a  stew-pan,  a  few  onions,  cellery, 
a  faggot  of  sweet  hc^rbs,  a  little  mace,  and  a  pint  of 
stock;  then  put  in  the  mutton,  cover  it* over  with 
bacon,  and  then  with  paper,  put  it  over  the  stove  to 
simmer  very  gently  until  tender;  scoop  about  half  a 
*  pint  of  carrot  peas,  (the  scoop  is  to  be  had  at  the 
brazier's  or  cutler's)  put  them  into  a  stew-pan  with 
as  much  stock  as  will  cover  them,  boil  them  until  the 
^ock  is  nearly  reduced  to  a  glaze,  then  add  as  much 
eouiis  as  i^  requisite  for  the  quantity  of  sauce  wanted ; 
take  the  mutton  up,  put  it  in  the  oven,  glaze  it^  pnt 
the  sauce  oa  the  dish,  and  then  the  DHittbn :  garnish! 
with  paste.  -     • 


$5 


SHOULDER  OF  LAMB,  FORCED  AND 

LARDED. 

Take  the  blade-bone  out  and  put  some  good  forcedi- 
nieat  in  the  place,  and  sew  it  up,  then  jard  it :  put 
trimmings  of  any  kind  of  meat  into  a  ste>y-pan,  with 
onions,  cellerv,  a  ftg^got  oF  sweet  herbs,  a  carrot,  and 
a  pint  of  stocK;  then  put  in  the  lamb,  cover  it  over 
with  bacon,  and  then  with  white  paper;  put  it  over 
the  stove  to  simmer  g^ently  for  about  one  hour  and  a 
half;  put  a  little  lighted  charcoal  on  the  top  of  the 
fitew-pan,  to  raise-  the  bacon  ;  when  done  take  it  up 
and  put  it  in  th^  oven,  and  then  glaze  it;  put  the 
]«orrel  sauce  on  \\\e  dish,  and  then  the  Jamb:  garnisU 
•with  carrot  and  turnip  roses,  or  paste. 

HOT  WOODCOCK  PIE.  * 

ft 

Raise,  a  pie  according  to^the  size  of  the  dish  that 
^U  is.  to  go  QUj  l^y  a  few  dices  pf  veal,  at  the  hottom, 
then  a  layer  of  forqedr|neat,  then  put  in  £>ur  wood- 
cocks, season  them  with  cavenne  pepper,  a  little  salt, 
line  spice,  chopped  mushrooms,  shalots,  parsley,  and 
thyme,  chopped  very  fine;  then  put  in  aboqt  half  a 
pound  of  raw  truffles,  pare  and  cut  them  in  thick 
slices,  put  a  littje  forced-meat  oyer  them  ;  coyer  thje 
woodcocks  over  with  sheets  of  bacon,  cover  the  pie, 
and  garnish  according  to  fancy ;  when  done  cut  the 
•top  ofFand'pbiir  off  tfie  fat;  have  some  hot  coutis 
with  half  a  pint  of  sherry  in  it,  fill  up.  the  pie,  p^nt  a 
napkin  on  the  dish  and  then  the  pie.  , 

N.  B.  For  a  cold  woodcock  pie^  instead  of  forced- 
meat  use  farce  ;  the  difference  between,  farce ,  and 
forced-meat  is,  that  the  farce  is  made  £^s  follows. 
Gut  o^  veal,  and  fat  and  lean  ham  an  equal  quan- 
tity, and  a  quj(rt^r  as  much  beef  suet,  season  it 
the  sani.e  as  for^^ed-meat,  only  more  cayenne  and  spicej 


66 

{lut  it  into  a  8tew*p^n  and  put  it  over  the  ffre, 
stirring  it  until  the  meat  seems  quite  hot  thro ug^K^ 
put  it  to  coo)^  then  pound  it  in  the  mortar  until  very 
fine ;  there  should  not  be  either  bread  crumbs  or 
eggs,  and  when  tlie  pie  is  taken  out  of  the  oven,  fill 
it  up  with  very  strong  stock  and  about  a  gill  pf 
Madeira :  when  quite  cold  put  chopped  aspick  over  it. 
*^,^.*  The  woodcocks  should  be  put  over  the  stove 
for  a  few  minutes^  aii4  put  to  cool  before  put  iato 
the  pie,  ^ 

HOT  PARTRIDGE  PIE. 

Raise  a .  pie  according  to  the  size  of  the  dish,  put 
slices  of  veal  at  the  bottom  of  the  pie,  and  finish 
actly  as  the  woodcock  pie  above  mentioned.    A 
partridge  pie**— The  parttidges  should  be  boned,  and 
fill  the  inside  with  farce  (made  the  dande  way  aa  jfbr 
the  woodcock  pie)  and  finished  exactly  the  same  way. 
JPul  tl^  bones*  livers^  necks^  and  gi^ssards  6f  tne 
parU'idg^s,  ana  aiiv  trimming  of  any  other  poultrjr, 
int»  a  steWr-pan,  with  a  few  sbatots,  a  little  mace^  a 
feg^ot  of  siveet  herbs,  two  or  three  onions,  a  tew  bajr 
leaves,  a  quart  of  very  good  stock,  and  half  a  pini  of 
Miadeira;  put  it  over  the  stove  to  boil  very  slow  for. 
aboat  two  hours,  then  sti^ain  it  off  and  fill  the  pia 
with  it  when  ready. 


c 


A  FUlCANDEAU  OF  FOWLj  AN©  ENDIVE. 

-  Prepare  a  fowl  as  in  pag&99,  lard.it,  lay  the  bottom 
of  a  stew-pan  with  sheets  of  bacon,  then. put  iu  the 
bones  <of  the  fowl  and  any  other  trimming  of  poultry,, 
a  few  onions^  bay  leaves,  a  faggot  of  sweet  herbs,  a 
Kttle  mace,  and  a  pint  of  second  stock.;  then  put  in 
fte.  fowl  and  cover  it  with  bilcon,  and  white  paper 
0ver  all ;  set  it  over  a  slow  fire,  put  a  little  lighted 
fhgrcpal  on  the  top  of  thest€K?-pan^  it  should  dimmer 


nniiy  fpr  about  an  hour;  vfhtfn  done  it  Bb^Mild  be  put 
in  the  oven  for  a  few .  minutes,  to  raise  the  bacon 
before  it  U  glazed ;  glaze  it  and  put  it  in  the  oven 
again,  glaze  once  more  before  dishing  :*  put  the 
endive  on  the  dish  fir«t,  and  then  the  fowl;  garnisli 
with  paste  and  carrot  roses. 

OX  CHEEK  AND  HARRICOT  SAUCE. 

Stew  it  the  sanie  as  a  brisket  of  beef;  all  the  bonea 
should  be  taken  out,  and  trimmed  very  neat ;  put  it 
on  the  dish  and  the  saiice  over  it* 

FILLET  OF  PORK  LARDED,  AND  ROBER 

SAUCE. 

lather  the  loin  or  neck  will  do ;  the  fat  sbouM  \m 
teken  off  the  lean  parl^  and  tbe  rind  taken  off  all  f 
Wd  the  lean  the  same  as  a  neck  of  mutton,  dreat 
sad  finish  the  same  way. 

A  NECK  QF  VEAL  A  LA  BESHEMBLL.  ^ 

.  'J. 

VTrim  a  neck  of  veal,  by  cutting  off  the  chine  bqii^e 
snd  &  tops  of  the  rib  boile$,  but  none  of  the  iii^ti 
pot  it  ou  a  lark  spit,  tie  it  on  the  spit,  butter  it  weU 
ivitha  paste  brush,  ipriftkle  salt  over,  it,  ,pu^  thr^ 
dieets  of  paper  ot>  h,  and  tie  it  quite  tight ;  put  it 
down  to  roast  so  as  to  have  it  done  an  boar  before 
^er  %  Finish  Ih^  s&iQi^  ais  Alcih  of  vealvki^^age 4#. 

:       A  SALT  CHINE 

Will /take  nearly  ihtj^e  hours  boSing;  dhop  the 
t^eens,  first  squeezing  the  w^ter  from.them^pnt  them 
into  a  stew-pan,  with  a  bit  of ^  butter,  far  little 
P<?P|>er  and  salt,  and  a  little,  cream;  puttke^teeM 
round  the  side  of:  the  dit^b,  and.  the  thine  in  thf 
laiddleb:  jprnish  with  cfurot  fifld  ttirnip .  roses, 


§8 

A  SALMIE  OF  WILD  DUCKS, 

Cut  up  the  wild  ducks  that  have  been  dressed  and 
left  from*  the  day  before,  put  the  legs,  wings,    and 
breast,  cut  in  thick  slices,  into  a  stew-pan,  and  set  them 
by  until  wanted  :  put   the  trimmings  into   another, 
with  a  few  shalots,  a  pint  of  good  stock,  and  half  a 
pint  of  port  wine;  set  it  on  the  stove  to  boil  g-ently 
for  an  hour,  then  strain  it  off:  put  a  bit  of  butter 
into  a  stew-pan,  when  melted  put  as  raiuch  flour   as 
.will  dry  it  up,  keep  it  over  the  fire  for  a  minute  or 
two^  keep  stirring  it  all  the  time,  then  put  the  liquor 
that  the  trimmings  of  the  wild  ducks  were  boiled  in  ; 
let  it  boil  a  few  minutes  then  rub  it  through   the 
tammy  and  piit  it  to  the  wild  ducks;  put  a  little 
cayenne,  pepper,  squeeze  half  a  lemon  in,  and  add  a 
yery  little  sugar ;  clish  it  neat :  garnish  with  paste.. 

MATELOT  OF  EELS. 

Cut  two  eels  in  pieces  about  an  inch  and  a  half  lon^, 
put  them  ii)to  a  stewrp^n  with  cold  water  to  blanch, 
when  they  come  to  a  boil  take  them  off  and  put  them 
into  cold  water,  scrape  the  second  skin  and  fat  off,  wash 
the  eels  in  several  waters,  otherwise  they  will  make 
the  sauce  muddy  and  greasy ;  when  very  clean  put 
the  eels  into  a  stew-pan  with  halfa  pint  of  good  stock» 
half  a  pint  of  port  wine,  and ''about  two  dozen  of 
button  onidns  neatly  peeled,  and  take  care  that  the 
roots  are  hot  cut,  tor  if  they  be  the  onions  will  boil 
to  pieces;  put  it  over  a  slow  fire  to  simmer  for  a 
quarter  of  a^  hour;  then  put  about  an  ounce  of  butter 
into  a  stew-pan,  when  melted  add  as  miich  flour  as 
will  dry  it  up,  then  put  the  liquor  the  eels  were 
^one  in ;  put  it  over  the  st6ve  to  boil  for  a  few 
minutes,  keep  stirring  it  while  on  the  fire^  strain  it 
tlirough  a  sieve,  and  put  it  to  the  eels ;  put  a  little 
anchovy  essence ;  blanch  and  beard  about  two  dozea 


6^ 

of  oysters,  and  add  them  to  the  eels ;  squeeze  half  a 
iemon^  and  add  a  little  sugar :  garnish  with  croutons* 

SOUP  AND  BOUILLIE. 

Cut  a  brisket  of  beef^  that  has  been  stewed,  inti^ 
smali  square  pieces,  scoop  turnips  and  carrots,  peel 
about  a  pint  of  button  onions^  cut  four  hea(&  of 
cellery  in  small  pieces,  put  the  beef  and  roots  into  a 
small  soup'pot,  put  a  little  stock  to  the  roots,  &c.  put 
it  on  a  slow  stove  to  simmer  until  it  comes  nearly  to  a 
glaze,  then  fill  up  the  soup*pot  with  best  stock ;  put 
it  by  the  side  of  the  fire  to  boil  gently  for  about  ten 
ibiiiutes. 

N.  B.  The  quantity  of  stock  to  fill  up  the  soup-pot 
depends  on  the  size  of  the  tureen. 

A  ROULARD  OF  MUTTON 

Is  a  large  breast  of  mutton  done  exactly  the  same 
as  a  roulard  of  veal. 


SECOND  COURSE. 

JELLY. 

Befot'e  the  jelly  stock  is  put  into  the  stew*-pafk 
take  the  fat  of!^  very  clean,  then  wipe  it  with  paper^ 
and  after  that  with  a  clean  cloth ;  put  the  stock:  into 
a  stew-pan  with  about  an  ounce  of  isinglass,  a  little 
cinnamon,  a  few  cloves,  and  a  few  coriander  seeds ; 
put  the  stew-pan  over  the  fire  just  to  melt  the  jelljr, 
When  melted  take  it  off.  For  two  quarts  of  jelljj 
peel  six  lemons  and  Seville  oranges  very  thin,  rub 
sugar  to  six  more  lemons  and  six  more  Seville 
oranges,  then  squeeze  them  all  into  the  bason  that 
has  the  peel  and  €ugar  that  has  been  rubbed  to  the 
lemons  and  oranges,  put  a  bottle  of  sheny  wine,  and) 


if  e^nVenUht,  ft  gUl  df  bf andy ;  nut  all  i>is  to  ih€  jd1)]r 
stock,  then  break  twdv6  eggs,  (leaving  ^ovit  six  jfdlks| 
the  whites,  yolks,  and  shells,  beat  up  together  and 
put  them  to  the  jelly  stjbck ;  ad4  sugar  sufficient  td 
sweeten  R,  put  it  on  a  brisk  stove^  keep  stirring  it  up 
eitbct  #ith.«  whilik  ot*  Ht  «pobn  doring  the  time  4t  i^  ^n 
the  fire^  When  it  comes  to  a  beil  trite  it  off  and  put 
it  to  thid  side  for  a  few  mtiiutes)  th^n  t^ke  it  from  the 
fire,  put  the  c6\^  dn  ftnd  some  lighted  charcoal  on 
the  cover,  l^t  it  stay  so  for  a  t}iiaf  ter  df  an  boul*  r 
fasten  the  jelly  ba^  in  the  standi  then  put  the  jelly  io) 
it  will  Want  returning  tbi'ee  t>1r.four  tim^s ;  when  ,quite 
tlear  put  a  tabte  i^loth  over  that  Will  completelj 
tover  it^  ft*'  the  hdttW  it  is  kept  the  better  the  jelljr 
will  run^  as  fb^  Ditiani^ting  that  lioust  depend  oil 
&ncy4 

ddil  one  ounce  of  isinglass  in  ^  virj  littie  watei^ 
\vhen  dis^lv&d  strain  it  tMrough^hair  sieve  whild 
Varni  into  a  quart  of  tream^  .4teiep  'ivhisking  it  op 
while  putting  the  isinglass  in ;  Wafm  Ibout  a  pint  o^ 
Raspberry  ielly  and  put  it  to  the  Cl^^m^  a  little  sifted 
sugar,  and  a  glass  oi  bliindy ;  Whisk  it  up  well  until 
it  becomes  thfek,  timti  -put  it  into  the  mould. 

N.B.  In  summer  Use  fresh  raspberries;  a  pottle 
"will  make  a  moUld ;  they  should  be  rubbed  through 
tbetiipimy. 

PITHS  Aug  RAtLv: 

,-•.'.•  •  •  -  N 

Pi^Iis  are  taken  put  <of  the  chine  bone  of  be^f^' 
niuttoi^  au4  ^^^  '•  Pl*t  them  into  a  stew«pan  in  cold'' 
water  and  putetbefn.  on  the  :fire,  when  they -^me  to" 
u  bbil^rain  dbein  ojB^  iviashtheni  and  put  them  in  i 
cloth  to  dry^.^theii  dip  them  in  egg  aiid  n^l  them  W 
bread  cruiai^   .JDo^^m.twice'Over^  (tj  thetn  kk  laird 


K-^-.\^    \V- 


if  A  Iigbt.  Vrp^n .;  ^ht^ti  thej  are  done  put  in  a  mA* 
cient  QuaQiiij  of  pafsle^  to  fiU  up  tlie  middle  of 
ttedtisL  , . ,  .  ' 

A  tOBSTBa 

,  1^  ^^nt  Up  told  fB  gi^B^tally  cut  up  tad  sent  ill 
the  shell.  ,  / 

•    •  •  .  * , 

■ 

CHEESECAKES  bl*  CHEESE-CURO  AND 

"    ALMONDS. 


Press  il^  cheese-card  very  drj^  so  a^  to  fet  till  tto 
whey  from  it,  then  put  it  on  the  balik  of  %  i&eve  with 
about  two  ounces  o^  butter,  and  Irub  U  through  ihe 
dere  with  the  back  bf  a  spttdit)  ih^n  pul  it  iato  a 
bason.  To  as  ihuth  ils  ^itl  make  two  dozen  of  chees^ 
fcakes)  put  six  .j^olte  x^f  '^^gs,  three  whites^  and  a  few 
bitter  almonds  poMdieHi  vety  ^ne ;  jgiraVe  a  lemon  and! 
^itto  thd  eUrd)  and  tt^lass  t>f  brandy  V  beat  all 
#eH  up,  sb^ei  the  pans  with  puff  paste>  and  put  theft 
preparation  in ;  they  will  tdke  abdiit  tkn  minutea  to 
eakes  when  dpne  lay.theSi  pa  paper*      >    . 

DUN  BliiOS 

kn  of  the  widgeon  ttnd^luck  hind|  and  drteed  ta 
Ihe  same  milnner.    '     . 

Is  made  ^  (oWmn ;  break  eiffhl  ^^gB  (leaVe  oiil 
four  of  the  whites)  into  a  baS^tlj  putinittle  chopped 
jparsley  and  Ihalot  piepjpKeIr  AM  ^It^  fagat  th^m  Up  with 
u  spoon^  then  pu%  a  quaitel'  bf  a  pint  bf  tream ;  ciit 
about  two  ounces  of  Bu<ier  in  imall  pie^l^  and  put  it 
ia  the  baaon  :  put  about  tWb^  ounces  of  butter  ih^o  did 
omelet  pan,  when-  melted  put  in  the  omelet,  and 
kieep  stiHring  until  it  begins  to  set,  then  jg^ather  it  U(i 
together  ^iUi  a  kuife^  or  a  very  small  slice  made  fol 


ii 

tlie  (Purpose  t  if  tlie  dish  be  oval,  shape  it  t6  the  di^bi 
if  round  do  the  same :  if  for  meagre  put  no  saucej. 
otherwise  put  a  little  sauce  round  the  dish. 

N.  B.  It  should  not  be  done  uutil  the  last  tiling, 
for  the  hotter  it  goes  to  table  the  better. 

« 

CEDERATA  CREAM. 

Boil  an  ounce  of  isinglass  in  a  very  little  water, 
when  dissolved  strain  it  into  a  bason  :  put  a  quart 
of  good  cream  into  a  deep  pan^  a  sufficient  quantity 
of  sugar  to  sweeten  it,  a  glass  of  brandy,  and  a  table 
spoonful  of  extract  of  cedei^ata  :  whisk  it  well  up, 
put  the  isinglass  in  while  wartn,  and  keep  whisking 
it  up' while  putting  it  i»to  hinder  it  from' settling: 
when  quite  thick  put  it  into  the  mould. 


EGGS  A  LA  TRIP. 

Boil  a  dozen  of  eggs  hard,  and  put  them  in  cold 
watei*,  peel  them  and  take  the  yolks  out  quite  whole, 
shred  tlie  whites,  put  a  little  choppe(l  parsley  into 
some  beshemell :  put  the  whites  of  the  eggs  round 
the  dish,  and  the  yolks  in  the  middle,  pour  the  sauce 
over  them,  and  garnish  cither  with  paste  or  croutons. 
I  N.  B.  Croutons  are  bread  cut  out  with  a  paste 
cutter  or  with  the  knife,  and  ifried  either  in  lard  or 
clarified  butter. 


JANUARYS.    No.  5,  BILL  OF  FARE. 


( 


FIRST  COplibE. 

Soup  a  la  Reine^ 

Removed  %vifb  FISH, 

revQvcd  ndth 

roiy  of  VK  A  L  ^  la  beshemell 


I  Pigi*  Feet  aud 
j    £ars,  with 
'  robcr  taace. 


AP4te 
Goodevcau. 


!     A  5eek4>f 
IVeoihQBruasted. 


A  Fillet  of 

Mutimi,  an4 

French  beaiis. 

r 


Whke  CoUops, 

and 

mushruoniB. 


A  raised  Pie, 
with  Mntfon 
atid  Potatoes. 


*r 


SECOA'D  COURSE. 


Two  Wild  Duch. 


Dartotes,  filled 

witlic«i»t«Lr(i. 


'  Des'Oetifii  a  la 
IVipc 


French  Beans. 


ACMn<^0f    • 

.Lfajni^r  ■ 


Beef  Olivet, 
and     ' 
sauoe  restauret. 


.%  Rump  of 
!,    Beef 
;  a  la  dftube 
«u  ehour. 


■^FiumeC 


A  Turkey 

with  ches- 

nuis  aud 

saus^iges.  < 


A  Souties  of 

!   Mutton,  and 
!    cucinnbers. 


'ANtfrkofVeal, 
j       niuijied. 


'  — ,       I 


Arai^d  Pie 
k  la  Francois. 


A  Fricasee  of 
i'h'-ckf'n. 


Thr»e  ; 

Partrid;^es 

stpwed,  - 

,  and  trulHea. 


A,Lo^Df  Pork, 
roasted. 


i.  '.J — 


A,  Volt'f  eal  «if 
Fisfa. 


I*    »*  »rf  «*fcl. 


i Sheep's  Rumps, 


•    I 


'  Cheesecakes. 


tJaulifloWer, 
w  IxJU  Parmatiao. 


*■   ^1—  m  I 


Jr^me  du'CaQe, 
in  dips. 


Ragout  Melie. 


Ai»paRBc;u6. 


Ml  lice  Pii?i. 
.  I.I. 


Mushrooms.. 


Chickens 

roasted, 

One  larded. 


!Ml]:i!iVOUIilS, 

with    ' 
browti  sawce, 


Mince  Pics. 


.8011  p  feantQH 

Removed  with  tlSII, 

removed  uitiva 
SIRLOIN  OF  BKFF. 


AsparagOBh 


■«*T- 


Ra^Qi^tMcUd. 


Cretfie  du 

TJlffB.. 


Cauliflower, 

ivitb  ParmasatT 

Cheese. 


Apricot  Tartlets 


French  Beans/ 
with  sauce. 

'    1 I    i 


Oes  Oeufs  a  la 
Trii). 


Darioles, 
iv  it  h. Custards.' 


Tzco  Rahhils. 

» 


.«' 


A 


t4     • 

A'b.  b,  BILL  OF  FARE,  FSRST  COUitSB. 

PIGS' FEET  AND  EA^So  .      .u 

Braise  trieip  in  a. broi^n. braise  till  ({uit^'teiyder^  so 
that  the  bones  will  all  pull  out  without  breftkinrgf;  the 
skill ;  the  ear?  should  be  shred  yery  fine  attd  piit  fnto 

rbber  sauce:  the  feet  should  be. dipped* {ti.eg^Vt'^ 
rolled  in  bread  crUmbs  thatliave  parsley,  thyme,  shalot^ 
mushrooms,  and  d  Httjlepepjii^r  and^  «ilt  mixed  with 
them.  Put  soifie  clarified' butter  on  a  souties-pan,  and 
put  the  pigs^  feet  on  it;  set  thera^o^er  the  Btove'to 
iinisb,  they  should  be  of  a  nice  light  brown  i.' when 
done  lay  them  on  a  clean  cloth  tpdry  the  fat  from 
them;  put  them  round  jt]bo^di<»by  and  the  ears  in  the 
middle^ 

A  MUTTON  AND  A  t^dTATOfi  PllSi  ;^ 

• '  '    ■ .    •       .  *     < .    ♦ 

Raise  a  pie  the  gize' wanted,  but  not  90  hi^h  as  Jtliejr 
generally  are,  about  three  incbeV.is  biga^  >^Bo^gtL 
Bone  a; loin  of. mutton,  trim  the  gucater  gail^of  ^he  fat 
o(flP,'  cttt  it  into  small  ^cutlets;  buUet  .a  "^ui|f;S:paa |> 
mix  cli6f)ped  sbalot,  parsley,  thyme^'mufilirQpn^yH^d 
pepper  and  6alt;  sprinkle  the*sputieg-pau  w^jl  ^^^J^ft 
the  herbs,  lay  the  niutton  pn,  ana  §pif|nkl|5  it ,  ov^^ 
with  the  remainder  of  the  herbs,  ,  Pijt  it  on  the  {|tow 
for  a  few  minutes,  just  lohg  enough  to  s^t  t^  JputJ^ji 
turn  thetn  and  then  put  them  to  copl':  Whel^  cold  lay- 
the  cutlets  round  the  side  of  the  pie;^piit  Scooped; 
jKytatoes  in  the  middle,, scrape  all  .the  herjbs  iVoii>  the 
souties-pdn  over  the  ffotaloes;  cov^r  the  jpiie,p,nd  gar- 
nish it  as  fancy  directs :  wheri  l^ak^d  i5ut  the  tpp  on- 
and  pour  off  the  fat,  take'  care  that  none  of  the  gravy 
ccim^  s  out,  as  it  is  that  which  gives  it  the  real  flavour; 
pour  a  itt^le  good  ceitjil^  i'  dUh  it  on  a  liapkih;     -v 

A  PATI;  GOODEVEAU. 

ifaii^li  pie  atioilt  three  Inches  high,  put 'forced-. 
tiw»tt remand  the  sides}  cut  a  sweetbread  that  has  been 


blai<ilii^  f)i 'slkf^^  W  fet^  "fet  Yixtt^,  and  live  oir  six 
truffles  that  haye  not  been  braised;  first  peel  (hem 
and  then  cultmsmiii  ^liiees,  cover  the  pie  and  garn^'sh 
it'  wJiaiit^dbedpoiir'iniBiM^  cbuKs,  and  a  glass 

I^.B^  The  Mikdeini  «nd  coolis  shoald  be  boiled 
iog8the|^l>tJbfeput i»  the  pie. 

•  ■•■■  •"•  ■■I?ECK.,'OF  .VENISON.    .'  ""  "''■.' 

ProiMire.it  the  sattie' als  the  hapnth^  one  hour  wiR 

Ciit' *p  miiiiy  beef  sf es&s.  f^^  ;the  <rUQij>  as  you 
want  oliyes^   beat  theni  Very  well  ,]vith  jUie  jQatter, 
hhiifc  trom  ovbr %i(h  cg^,^^^^^    spniikIe,Hicni  ovcjr 
wttt  ebbpi^i^  tJafslfey^  tn^rafe,  shalats^  nfUshroqnW 
p^jppiif  bhd'SaAf,  and  a  lit(t|e  Vajrehnqi  lay  the  Mtom. 
^Pftit^-ji^ti  <htft  tilll  just' Wd  them  with  ^t  bd^qt^ii 
ptrif  about  b^nr  a  pftit  bf  ^ood  stocl^  roll  t^e  cJiyi^s  yp; 
qaite  U^hft  and  put  itKdm'in  iho  stew-pan ^  put  h«eoi». 
over  them' iil^d  |tep<Or  oyer  all;  j>ut  it  pi)  a,slow.8t09r^ 
Ibsibinfi^t  until  Jpjlte  tender  :f  when  ^Pne  taVe^t^em' 
up  and  stralu'lhe, liquot"  they/we^e^one  in  ;.  stiw 
fet  off,  aHU /put  tfie,' liquor  into  a.  $;^)4ll  stpiy^paq^i 
k«ihlc^  it  ^o  a  g^Iaie,  then  put'as  mu^h  Q,(^Ii«^  tq,  H  )»»v 
y(Wi/  vfiini  sauce;  squeeze  half  a  Iein9i;i/an4  ja  little 
sdgdrr  gla^e^li.e  olivets  put  the  s^uce  09  the  disl^x^od- 
tfien  tfie  qlfvefev   0arnisn/>vith.p^t,^i^  /'  ,vV  r.*   4  j^- 

A  TURKEY  WIT»CUBSI*«T8  AND 

Prepare,  the  .turkey  in  every  ^espfpt  tbe  «ame>itrliy 
^  a  tuiiLey  and '  trufflles.    The  ches^utt'  ob9«)bl  'iHir 

15  2 


16 

K^alded,  then  pei^I^d,  i^faeir  two  skins  to  be  taken  off$ 
boil  then)  in  slock. and  a  glass  of  sherry:  when  lend«r 
Ib^lanch  llie  sausages  and  cut  tbem  in  slices,  put  them 
to  the  chesnuts ;  a  throat  sueetbread  iirst  boiled,  then 
cut  in  slices  and  put  with  the  chesnuts,  &e.  Give 
them  a  boil  all  together;  if  hen  reduced  nearly  to  a 
ftlaze  add  as  tnuch  coulis  as  is  requisite  for  the  quan* 
tity  of  saut^e  wantedi  Dish  the  turkey  and  put  the 
sauce  over  it. 

A  RUMP  OF  BEEF  A  LA  DAUBE,  AND 

CABBAGE. 

Trim  a  rump  of  beef,  take  the  bone  out,  daub  it, 
and  put  it  into  a  maiUnade  the  lugbt  before  wanted, 
tmake  the  jnarinade  as  bef(/rfe  directed  in  page  08) 
put  it  On  in  a  brown  braise-j  it  \villiake  four  hours; 
t^nitembeir  that  it  must  do  vet-y  sloVv.  About  ooe  Iwur 
before  Wanted  ptit  in  t->i%  bundles  of  cabbage,  prepared 
the  same  as  for  partridges  ^,  when  all  doue  take  ibe 
beef  ut),  trim  dnd  glaSce  it ;  put  Spanish  ^auce  on  the 
dish,  the  cabbage  round,,  and  the  beef  in  the  middle* 
Garnish  with  carrot. 

STEWED  PARTRIDGES  AND  TRUFFLES. 

Draw  the  legs  of  the  partridges  in  tho  same  as  a 
i^hicken  for  boiling:  put  the  necks  and  gizzards  of  the 
pajtridges^  and  the  siinie  of  anv  other  poultry  that  are 
preparing  for  dinner,  into  a  stew-pan,  a  pint  and  a  half 
of  good  stock,  about  half  a  pound  of  truffles^  and  half 
a  pint  of  sherry  wine,  then  the  partridges^  a  faggot  of 
sweet  herbs,  two  onions,  and  a  few  blades  of  mace; 
put  fat  hacon  over  the  partridges,  and  paper  ovei  all : 
put  them  on  a  slow  stove  to  simmer  gently  for  one 
hour,  or  umii  they  are  quite  teiuler.  When  done 
take  out  the  truffles,  peel  them  and  cut  them  m  slices; 
then  strain  the  liquor  the  partridges  were  done  in} 
skiu  the  fat  off,  put  a  bit  of  butter  into  a  stew-pan; 
when  n^elted  put  as  much  flour  as  Will  dry  it  up,  then 
put  4he  liquor  ifl  that  the  partridges  were  done  iai 


"77 

t 

five  it  a  boil, 'Ihen  put  in  the  frufRes;  take  \\p  the 
partridges,  dry  them  on  a  cloth,  then  put  them  on  the 
dish,  ai^  the  sauce  over  them.  Garnish  either  wiHi 
paste  or  croutons. 

A  CHINE  OF  LAMB,  AND  CUCb^MBEFl 

SAUCE. 

Prepare  the  lamb  for  roasting  the  sani.e  as  a  chine 
ofmutton;  paper  it  welK. 

A  NECK  OF  VEAh 

Will  take  about  an  hottr  to  roast :  butter,,  salt,  and 
double  paper  it:  put  gravy  and  butter  on  (be  disH, 
and  then  the  veal. 

SHEEP'S  RUMPS  AND  KIDNIES. 

Bone  four  rumps,  (or  more  properly  daHed  tails) 
jfiUthem  with  forcedomeat,.dlid.  put  them  in  a  srtew-pnn 
with  about  half  a  pint  of  best  stock;  split  dx  kidnif?s 
and  put  them  in  the  stew-pan,  cover  then^  over  with 
hacijnj  put  them  on  a  slo^w  stove  to  simmer  jr^ntly 
for  about  two  hours.  When  done  take  the  rumps  up 
aud  glaze  them ;  put  the  kidnies  into  anotlier  stew- 
Jan;  strain  the  liquor  they  were  done  in,  skim  thfe 
.£itfrom  it^  and  reduce  it  to  a  glaze;  then  add  some 
coulis,  make  it  hot,  squeeze  a  lemon  in  it,  ^nd  put  h 
little  cayenne  pepper;  put  it  to  thekidnies:  put  the 
kidnies  round  the  dish,  the  sauce  over  theni,^>d  the 
rumps  in  the  middle.    Garnish  with  paste  or  croutons. 

FRICASEE  OF  CHICKEN. 

Cut  up  two  chickens  very  neat,  take  the  thigh  bones 
•from  the  legs;  put  the  chickens  into  a  stew-pan  with 
a  slice  of  ham,  a  few  spoonfuls  of  stock,  and  about  one 
ounce  of  butter ;  cover  it  over  y^Uh  white  paper,  then 
put  the  cover  of  the  st6w-pan  on  ;  put  in  on  a  slow 
litoTe  to  simmer  gently  antil  you  think-  it  done ;  put 
Ibe  trimmings  of  the  chickens  into  another  stew-pan> 

B  3 


5^ 

gint  of  gpod^tocUlhat  i&  y^ery  Uf^V^opri^^  put  jl 
pn  thestoY^  to  boilgeiitly  tprJ^alf^.^ryjMi^^ 
it  off :  put ,?i  Vij^  of  i>uttifr  jint9  ^  stewr puf),  when  n>§ltBf| 
put  a  little  flour,  biit  hot  so  much  as  generaliy  done  to 
thicken  sauce,  tbeinpti^  iiut  liqiior^o  it;  wb[en  boiled 
put  M  to  the^  iricasee.  Make^a  laison  of  two  jrolks  of 
eg^gsaiid  a  little  crieaTn.;  inake  the  fricasee  jboil^  tbon 
take  it  bfftRe  fire,  put  tVe  laison  in,  and  put  it  oveip 
the  stbvie;  keep  ^iirrrng -it  untif  it  comes  to  a;  boih 
thmi. dii^h  it;  put  the  cbrckm  oii  the  dish,  ancl  jthe 
•auce  oT^r  it    Gi|rni8h  with  croutons  or  pc^ste. '        7^ 

A  votevent  is  jpuff  paste  cut  to  Che  shape  bf 'tlie^4is^ 
intended  fqr  ft {' w^p  hj^]|e4tcikei()iitttt»e>  inside  the 
same  asi  jou  do  patj^ ;  pirt  a  soutjies^  of  soal  in. .  Qish 
it  Ott  i'napkin.      ^   -    /    .  .  ^      :.  , .      .  ;^     v...,.-. 


L  ';•  .•■:.v. :  i  :  i:-\   n^'-xi-^} 


PATE  A  LA  FRANcdrs,  qOMMdj^i^lr?  * 

:      ,  i  -  ICAUJED  A  FRENCH  JJE:,  ' 

•  Raise  a  pie  to  laatch  the  jniittOA'.ajid^potatoe  piet 
liajliie;boU.^n)pf  the  pieLwitb  slioesr  of:Tiwil^then'a 
few  mushrooms,  then  a  few  slices  of  ht^D^y^.aiaraatl 
fowl  cut  up  the  same  way  as  for  a  fricasee,  a  few  more 
irniishrooms^  find  {trtlil-o^t.^w^^tbre^  (Hit  Ja:  sHoeai; 
(the  sweetbread  ^ould always  be. boiled  before  cut 
up  for  any  use)  season  it  with  pepper  and  ^alt^  g  W^^^ 
Chopped  parsley, aiid  shalots;  cover  it  in^ and  gaji^nish 
it  as  fkiicy  directs.  If;  will  take  about  aolhoor  6nd:;<i 
fialf  to  Irake ;  when  done  pQut*  the  fat  on,  and  put*  Ut 
soine  coiilfe,  and  six  Volli  of  eggs  hoile'd  hard. 

A«OT3^ES':OP'MtJttpN  A J0  tJtJ^UMBE^! 

,Bone,,pit!i«r  silftio'or  a^  of  wutlWj.  wjd.cjit  it 
in(o  cuUeis ;  l>utter  a  souties-pan,  and  qprinUe  .it^  jrit 


1^ 

wet  trift  'skttlof  ^  Ay  me,,  parsl^  an^  chopped  ini^A* 
looms;  pot  the  cwtlets oil),  hot  doubt  pnt  thein  on  th'6 
itove  uiilir  about  ikve  tnhiutes  bftfor^  wanted:  have 
fiMne  gt^d  cueomber  siiube.  >  iKbh  the  inutton  rbiind 
th^  dishs  wft  the  ciictiaiber  sauce  ih  the  iuiddle,     / 

■      SOUP  SANTfi;  '  ""  '* 

Shred  turnips,'  carrots,  8inall  green  onions^  celleryi 
and  one.bbanvih  onipn  when  to  be  had;  out  in  tw^ 
(0r  three  cabbage  leUupes,  pich  a  bandAd  of  chervik 
bad  a  pint  of  aspai^gus  peas:  put  all  into  a  8oup-po| 
withhalf  a  pint  of  good  stock;  put  the  doup«pot  ovef 
ike  stove  to  boil  slow  uhlii  the  stock  19  quite  Fdduced'^ 
th^  JSU  up  tiie  pot  vHth,  gjood:  stock rginre  it  a  boil^ 
yut  a  tutpp  oY  sugary  and  a  little  salt  if  wanted. 

•       '  COFFEE  €RmiI»  IN  CUPS:  ' 

Boil  a  quart  of  cream  and  put  it  to.  cool :  n^ake  spnui 
coflfee  vety  strong  and  put  it  to^  coo^,  sweeten  it  witti 
saEi^mid;^^ ,  V  Put  .abo^t  half  an  ounop  of  isiaglass  oi| 
to  boil ;  thai^  put  the  coffee  and  creab  mta  a  deep  pan^ 
with  a  gl^sa  of  brandy,  and  sugar  sufficient  to  make  it 
tweet  1  whisk  it  up^  wheait  logins  to  get  thick  put 
la  the  isinglass,  keep  on  whisking  it ;  when  quite^  tUehi 
iU  the  cu]^.. 

•  *  «  •     '        '  '    • 

BARIOLES,  SO  CALLED  FROM"  THE  NAME 

OF  THE  MOULDS. 

Make  as  much  half  puff  .paste  as  will  shce£  the 
Jwiimd^;*  fir^  butter  thj^o),  and.  then  dust  them  with 
]^our,  t^en  sheet  the  moulds  and  put  a  piece  bl'iCninib 
of  br6a4in/each  rpquld  tpf  keep  the  paste  in  shape 
while  baking:  wtien  bakeJ'taKe  them  but  of  tbci 
lA(Mi)4B,^4}mi  fiU  ^^m  witkouatardf  sift  sugar  ovea^ 
tbem  aikTbro wn  them  w  ith  a  salamander. 

N.  B^  Th^  ciistard  sbbuld  be  cold  before  put  in  th# 
jasite*'-  ■  '"■  i.'-     -^  ^' ■  1  '•■  '■     ■  ^*    •'  ■'''  ' 

•  E  4        ' 


JANUARY  6.    No.  6,  BILL  OF  FARE. 


l^iilsT  COUKSE.      •• 

TTATJNCJT  OF  V^NI.^QN.     ^ 


SemelJs  of  i^^f^i 


' 


6eef  Palattt  ^f 


ifet(«t.^:lvefc.l  .^<,;Vkw„^^^^ 


■       ■   I  «     *         *  I    »         m: 


-rjf 


y 


A  Roulard 
of  ^ork, 


— — — — — t—— I — 
A  large rFowl, 

and 
oyster  sauce; 


SE€0.\D  CbURSE. 

IP         » 

'"    1 


4     -f 


ffoodcdc/cs. 


*•••  /I 


■— '— « — 1*-| — j|  f '-* 


sanre  piqt^nt 


tr 


■  ■ '  -"ft 


-I 


,A-«m;ill.Haai, , 
.  'braised, 

»        'till  la.    <  1 1  >  I  ^ 


J 


A  Pheasant,  and 


of  lamb,    i+++^+*f  <  ^  A 
tordefl,  aii#  f Ffamet   *«^f* 
trncamber :  t-„,#.M+t?  '  j^^L 


i*Ma>*B.^^ 


itlaPortugueze> 
aQd.trttfiies^ 


Brisket  of  Beef, 

stewed, 

'and  roots.  •* 


L 


A  Dacit,  f«roed, 
and  turnips. 


TwA  Xhtckens' 
k  la  reine. 


ba^r. 


'•'fcfPastfy.     • 


^^Rx  liasket  Basket 


■^-■<U^       <     J       Ml^ 


i'ickied  0v9te79 


1. 


<    ••* 


'.  «.  .  > 


Spinach  and 


^f  1L»e4is1ttri 


Artichoke 
fr^fid  ia  Ivifter.- 


-L_ 


-; 


'•^«  ■       I         m  r 


Mincje  Pi^ju 


*  \ 


>  •  *  I 


^~"^'ar»~»" 


llii    i\ 


Macaroni,  with 
1  J    ^Parmasan. 


•4++-M.+4V-I- 

tFraihfc| 


— ^ 

.  . .  ItfaeaftMiii^    y 

with  Parmasan 

Cheese. 


T  *■■ 


Fil)et0fS$o«l  i 
^Tltalienne.   [, 


Bj^e^  of  ?V^1 
roasted. 


Nea|>T(*igU*, 
and  b^rberfifif . 


'  »    ■■  ■  I  • 


Mi«cc  Pie«, 


FilteisttfSafakiOrtl 

Removed  with  FISH,  removed 
t»itha  CHINE  of  MUTTON.  ♦ 


Lobsteit 


f*r»4— •»**<— »■ 


•  f  .  .<  A  Gateaa      < 
Millefleiir. 


t 


irti^boke  B<M 
toivs  in  saupe. 


I  »■      > 1 1      ■  I  >      * 


Basket 
Pj 


r»  ^      »»  >t  ^ 


Pickled 


Oprstera 


■^^^"-^■^-«k«Mi^b-«^p^l^« 


Sd&ifie  5n  saoce. 


llV'l        ■       .K. 


of  Pastry.     J  [     CraJHfisi^ 

III     I  I  — »■    '■■  »>j^     V»  *     \  \\  9     ■    »    I       ■■ 


2^  Hare. 


.* .  ^— 


81 

No.  6,  BILL  OF  FARE,  FIRST  COURSE. 

SEMELLS  OF  CARP. 

Bone  two  good  sized  carp,  and  cut  them  into  Inrg^ 
coUops;  put  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter  into  a 
stew-pan,  some  chopped  shalots,  thjroe,  parsley,  mush- 
rooms, and  pepper  and  salt ;  put  it  on  the  stove  so  as' 
to  melt  the  butter,  then  take  it  off  the  fire  and  let  i(fc» 
Ktand  untiM^iree  .parts  cold ;  clarify  a  Httle  butter  ahd^ 
put  it  on  a  souties-pan,  then  dip  the  carp  in  the  butter; 
and  herbs,  then  in  bread  crumbs;  make  as  nianj  stick ^ 
to  the  carp  as  you  can:  put  it  on  the  souties-pan;,' 
fioish  them  the  same  as  Idmb  cutlets.  Dish  thenir 
round  the^dish,  and  fried  parsley  in  the  middle.  I 

TWO  BREASTS  OF  LAMB,  GlilLLED.       i 

Trim  the<  lamb  by  cutting  the  chine  borie  off,  and^; 
skin  it :  put  them  into  a  s^w-pan  \Tith  about  half  a  i 
pint  of  good  stock;  set  them  on  the  fire  to  botl  gently^ 
until  the  bones,  will  pull  out,  then  take  thenn  up  and 
6c<n^  them ;  pepper  and  salt  them,  and  put.  them  on^ 
the  gridiron  to  brown :  have  some  piquant  stiuce,  put ' 
k  on  the  dish  firsts  then  the  lamb, 

BEEF  PALATES  AS  CUTLETS. 

The  palates  should  be  braised  until  quite  tender^, 
Aen  cut  them  into  the  shape  of  a.  cutlet;  warm  some« 
glaze  and  put  it  on  a  st)uties-pan,  then  put  the  palates^^ 
on  to  get  warm  in  the  glaze :  turn  them,,  dish  them. 
i*ound  the  di$h,  and  put  ravigpt  sauce  in  the  middle. 

NEAT'S  TONGUE;  AND  BARBERRIES. 


»^ 


Cut  a  tongue  that  has  been  roasted  int»  neat  slices,,' 
^dtha  fsJL  the  same;  put  some  sauce  Tournay  into.a. 

«  5. 


stew-paji,  and  about  three  ijMe  spoonruls  ef  preserved 
]b(ai;t3!^i^f«  gilf^  j^I^  Ml'llpiililtetir  ittf  ttenlic^o^r 
ipngue  otiii $oiiti?s*^[K|ii,,.wUb 8o«ie»gla29e 4ii> ilrtO'g^t 
wariu;  tivn^  U^  si^rA^  tc^ihiLVi^  bplt^ ^UlestglMedi:  dMi 
tbj^  tongue,  raiipd  tjbe  <ti^i|:a.  ^lioe  of  .fat  beii!ree«i.e«ah- 
slice  Qi  lean;  put  the  sauce  in  the  oudiUec 


e&l^KENS'A'  iiiV  feEifNE. 


Are  boiled  about  fifteen. minutes;  tak%  tbei^r^up^ 
put  them  oil  a  H^ai^  doth;  atid  press'aH  tde  watenr  oul.;- 
ptit  thenj  on 'tl)t!^  di^h,  auA  e^'^er  V^l^ 
eau'nfiower  (^hxcllever  is  in  seasra    p^t  r9mid'  thft 
8ish.  km.  f6ut  s^ucekl»-tkim 

,\:,^  hi-r.    T.    :'  '    I'  'i"M,  :  v.-  ••'     -  !  -.'^'^    ■•:..■  * 

RABBITS  A  EAPidRTOGtJ£Zk, 


^  &0ii«  Uvd  Nbbtl9  aM^^p^ad  ifaem  oVei^W^fl  farced^ 
an^atk  und  «Mk«  tliehii  ^bearly  the  shape  of  abbidtetie 
thit-i#^i<«issed  fof  lft)iliii|;:lis  yiou  cau:  put  the  boikei^ 
inio9t  '9t^^af>,^th\ftuyrMbef  tritpmitigfs  of  fotStrjy. 
4^  &#- bnidus^  a  fii^gpgt)t''bF  sweet  iiei4)S;^  a  little'  mace, 
and  a  few^bay  leaves:  put  the  rabbits  in  and  i^ver 
theitt  tvlth  baxion^i  put  a  pint  of  stock,  put  papier  oven 
all ;  .<^«ft  tkeiu  on  the'fii^to  simmer  very  slolr'fbrohe 
hour,  thea  strain  the  liquor  that  the  rabbits  were  done 
in ; .  sj^ipi  tbe>,fi|Lt  off  und^msdie  the  sauce  froni  it^  put  a 
iew  truffles  fh  the  sauce;  put  the  sauce  in  the  dish,, 
and  tlien'dieTubbitsi^'  fii^i  glsize  tbeiu;  &r  a  change 
they. may  be^lardt'd. 

.   A  tiREXST' OF  VEAL,  ROASTED. 

Cut  the  chine  Wne  off,  and  strip  the  rib  bones  a^bout 
tWo'incihe^  down,  take  the  sUn  offthe  thin  end  of  the 
breast ;  put  it  pa  .a  lark  spit,  and  tie  it  on  the  roaatiag' 


•  •    • 

83 
.•....•.■■::     '.'        '  .       ^    •         •  •     ' 
spit';  'bolter  it  ind  0|^rmkle  it  wift  salt^  then  tfoubfe 

Cpar  it;  put  itdvmii' td  foasf,  it  will  take  about  an 
iirl0'roastt  whendonettilce  off  the  paper;  let  it  be 
a  nioe  light  broWii :  •  put  gravy  and-  butter  on  the 'disbi 
and  then  tho  ¥tel.  ^ 

ROULARDS  OF  SALMON,  WITH  CAPER 

SAUCE. 

'  Have  aboutpne  pound  and  a  balf  of  salmon  from 
ne  tbickei^t  pari ;  take  the  skin  off  and  cut  it  into 
dices  the  Jong  w«|j;  flatten  them  with  the  beef  steak 
bleater,  brush  theip  over  with  egg,  season  them  with 
pepper  and  salt  and  a  few  chopped  capei^,  and  roll 
them  up  light;  put  them  into  a  stew-pan.  that  will 
JB8t  hoM^tnem^  piit'i^))#ut  faalCaf^i^l^  and 

cover  them  over  witb/paper;  set  them  over  a-stove  for 
a^ut  hiilf  ;a{i{  houn  v^^en  done  lay  tfiem.  i^undrlthe 
4iB&;  put  al.  l^tle  couW  ipU)  .a<  stewrf-pawi'iiwith.  4lie 
liqiior  the  $alinoa  w^9  doneju;  i^educe.it  tohalElhf^ 
qu^fy!^j^(l4  ^^w  4ippp^  9qp^rs,,-a  litti^iaaeiiee  qf 
'ancoupvy^'a^Tass  of  Madeira,  and  sq^ueeze  half  a  lemon;, 
add  ;^  little^gf^r. ,  \    , 

,  ^  IS^.  ^^.Jf  fi>r  i^^gre  use.  flslirstock,;  ,ppur  tbB  sauce 
ove^thejsalmpp.:;  garnish  with  [ia^te  or  croutons. 


I   MLI/ETS  OF  SOAL  A'  L'lTAtlENNi;: 

Fillet  a  pair  ^fgpod  ^ized  «>n1s ;  scrape  two  of  thd, 
fillets,  and  as  much'fat  bacon  as  th^re  ia.fish :.  put  it 
into  the  mortar  with  a  little  chopped  parsley,  shalot, 
thjme,  mushrooms,  a  little  pepper,  and  salt^  and  two 
anchovies  washed  quite  clean  afid* boned;   riib  them 


put 

fi^ether :  when  d3iie  take  if  < 

£  6 


• 

well^  brush' them.oi^^svi^h.eijg^MdseiisoQ  ihem  m^k 
ivbite  pjepper  and  salt ^  spri^ad  ^hej»>al  tiiat  is  pqu^Mled 
over  the  fillet,  roll  it  up  very  tight,;  ptaf  sheets  of 
bacon  in^a  slew-^pan  that  will  j«i^  hpld  the  soaJs,  put: 
a  little  stock,  and  cover  all  over  with  ba<jon ;  put  it  on^ 
a  slovir  stove  to  simmer  for  half  an  hour :  when  done 
take  tliQin  up^.gut^them^  cyi  the  disbi  and  pPHr  ,white 
sauoe  over 'tbe&^  garfiish^itn  paste.  


.  ; . .  '^ .  ■  . . ;  TABTLETS4  .. '    ' .  •  ■ 

She^t  the  tactlet  pans  w^tJbk  puflT  past^4  put  Vhal 
8weeto)eat  J  qu  Uiink:  pvQper,  croas-^ar  wd  bake  them  i 
when  done  put  tbew.  op. paper  to  soak  the  butter  fooot 
the  paste,  ,    .    .    . 


»■  \ 


ARTICHOKE  BOTTOMS  A  L»ITALIENNE. 

•  *  f 

Put  the  artichoke  bottoms  to  soak  in  warm  water^ 
change  the  water  several  times;  when  quite  soft  trim 
them  and  put  them  14  .a  stew-pan,  with  a  little  stocky' 
to  keep  hot  until  wanted :  cut  them  in  half  and  put 
them  round  the  ,dish,  put  a  little  sauce  ov^r  them> 
and  the  remainder  in  the  middle.  Garnish  with 
croutons.       .  • 


SxVLSrf  IE 

If  I 

Is  boiled  till  tender,  then  peel  it^ut  it  on  a  dish^. 
and  put  a  sharp  sauce  over  it.      nJien  fried  in  bfU- ^ 
ter  boil  and  peel  it^  dip  it  jn  batter^  and  put, it  in. ^ot: 
fat  got  ready  for  that  ddrpose.  ; 


GA^VEAV  MJILLEFLEUR 

Is  cut  out  of  puff  paste,  there  ate  ralllefletir  cuttem 
fi>r  that  purpo^^  put  different  sweetmeat  in  eack 

pifi&ej  spin  carmftl  sugar  over  i4U 

■ 

PICKLED  OYSTERS 

Ai^  done  as  follows:— the  oysters  should  be  the* 
lafvest  that  are  to  be  had^  put  tb^ro  on  the  fire  to 
make  hot^  but  do  not  let  tliiem  boil;  take  them  off  and 
strain  the  liquor  through  a  tammy  sieve;  beard  thes 
^)•«tc^8  and  put  them  into  cold  waterfor  the  time  the 
pickle  is  making :  put  to  the  oyster  liquor  about  a  giU 
of  vin^ar,  a  slass  of  sherry,  a  few  blades  of*  mace,  n 
little  w%ole  white  pepper,  and  a  little  salt :  let  it  boi^ 
fcr  half  an  hour,  thejfi  put  the  oysters  on  a  cloth  to  dry. 
Ae  water  fi'om  them ;  tlien  put  them  in  the-  pickle  tor 
koil  for  one  minute,  then  take  them  off  and  put  them 
ID  a  bason. 

SPINACH  AND  EGGS, 

The  spinaeh,  when  boiled,  should  be  squeezed  aa 
dry  as  possible,  then  chopped  very  fine,  and  put  intot 
a  stew-pan  with  a  bit  of  bulter,  a  little  pepper  and- 
salt, and  a  little  cream:  dish  the  spinach,  then  put  the- 
eggs  in  to  poach,  be  careful  that  they  do  not  get.  too^ 
kard;  put  vinegar  and  salt  in  the  water.. 


<• 


JANUARY  7.    Na.  7,  BILL  OF  FARE. 

SEGONix^OURSE      J 


I    .    JPiRSTvGf>U»SR 
Soup  Cressey^ 

Removed  with  FISH, 

removed  with  a 

TUftKEY  AND  TRUFFLES 


Risoles. 

»■<■— ^»<M    1 1     III      m  >■ 


Two  Necks  of 

Lamb  k  U  cbe- 

TKux  de  fn«e« 


Eroiiice  of ' 
'  '  Mutton, 
witbkcucttBibeis.. 


FftitPfitM. 


'  *  ■  >  I    '<  1 1   ■  >  III  1^  y  I  ■ 

Lejf  of  Pork 
4  labdisseaii.. 


Partridges* 


Hiieiiis|i  Cjpeam, 


tit, 


freacb  B«fttM. 


'   Two  boiled 
Chickenf 
^la  reioe. 


vy  .'%»>■ 


■*'    I,        i  '■■" 


A  Blanquet  of 

i^oivl,  and 

mmsliFooinf. 


A  l^  of  Lamb 

boiled. 
Loin  fried. 


„.    .    ,  ,  ■  I  <  ■  ■  ■  I 


-h-5 


«.     «    I*'       A     ' 


^flflllHMh  of  I 

Veoisoo.  }'t 

T 


il^mall  Cord 
\     PmUliogs, 
witb,wineaance. 


.  Itofblster'   - 
an  Gratio. 


]  Aftilhoke  Bot. 
toms 


NecktJf      j 
.Miiiicn  boiled, 
aod.t«|ni|i|ai. 


nt  ♦■ .  '  ■ 


<  A.S«Blic9i.nf. 


rf'i 


;. 


Two  Cftrckcn^ 

t  tiad    -  . '  jj : ,  Sea::XaiU' 

.  .     I     I 


•      f  ■  I,. 


..'  :> 


>*  I         »  ll^l 


A  snail  Iiam«: 
braised,     . 
glazedj&c. 


*t  Scbrck 


'"**M^' 


A  Trifle.  , 


Aip^fajptt. 


■ » '. « J  *  ■» 
! — r 


vMiaeePiet;  * 


V 


Esealopedt 


« tn  sauce,  j  I      ^^  ^aiL 


TT~n — rr 


T 


V 


i' 


>atk*.  . 


I   J.'v 


•K 


J^ju 


'FriksindeSau 

and  ,'. 
sorrel  sauce; 


■*■'>  .' 


■»■■  >    i'4-ir'''..  '■■»'■*'■■">*'?■. 


J  • 


Vermicdli.Saup^ '. 

.Removed  with  FlSlt 
removed  with  a    . 

CHINE  OFl«(7rrON. 


"I  >     i 


>:sitflbipie(da 


-.         *  *  *     • 

^^  ' '  f  t 


Artichoke    ' 
Botthini 


*» 


■^ 


J  • 


^ 


3i";l.";^  i!--'r/ 


Cr^ikets,,.     1.  Aspaxavjus 


■J  »  I  t    ,i^ 


A  rfrifte. 


Willi  \vi  HP  saucci 


i  »t.y  .  .rt     H^,:r- 


Frenck  Boans;, 


iUhehish  :nr<^ait»j; 

t! r. — -  ' 


"•    < 


Tmty  Dun 


I  Birds.       .1 

' — '-^ L— ij 


I 


Ko.^  BIj4h,0F  FARE,  MRST  COURBB:. 

.  -   J.    -SOUP  (JRESSfiY. 

'\  Grate  four  carTOtey-pe^  and  sliee^feiir  large  c^mons, 
'eatlettiiee,  apd  |Mcka'lidnd<ul^.of  charviU  put  them 
i%llanJta.sLiifi\i^-|HUL  wliE  i  Utile  gtbd^  about  a  luiarter 
iofa^unfd  idfbsiUer9.aiidli  pkit  of  lenlils  on  iQie  tpp 
ioftfaexoots;  putthe  ^tew^pan  on  the  stove  to  $iinmer 
ioraii  louf^  theq  till  up  wkh  the-  best  stock;  let  it 
ibofti  'igently  for  »vi  bour,  then  pot  the  crumb  of  two. 
jFrencb  rolH :  when  well  forked  rub  all  through  a 
faoiroy:  boil  about. a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  Carolina 
Vice  IB.  some*  good  stock,  when  quite  tender  add  it  to 

ilhe  ^iitt.  .         . 

'-^ —  -    *^  — '    *"' j         .     ►  . 

:         '  RlSdLEa  - 

Miiace  any  kind  of  white  meat,,  such  aa  ibw4y  torkej^ 
Yeal,  of  raweelbreads  r  puti  a  littlci  idhopped  ^balolji 
^rale^,  apd  nrushrboins  ipto^.a  stew-pan,  iand  a  feif 
speonlttls  of  stocIrr'put~  It  on.  the  store  tb  simmer 
gently/ im til  the*  sfbc^^  a  littlf^ 

beslM^meil ;  when  hat  put  ijUie^  minee  in,,  stir  it  abou^ 
with  a  spoon, 'season  it  witfi  pepper  and  salt,  ^ueez^; 
loitf  a  lemph^  and  p^t  a  litcle  dii8t,.of  sug^^  andal>ou''( 
three  drops  ojr|ariick  vinegar/  Butter  ts  lar^  dist 
and  put  the  mmce  on',  spread  it  bveir*  the  bottom | 
when  quite  eold  make  it  Jip  round!  oir  long  .as  &ncy 
clirects:,  have  duree  eggs  beat  up  in  a  bason)  pot^Hho 
psoles  in  with  a-spoon,  androll  them  inil|read  crumby, 
they  sbould  W  donie  twice  pvef ;  have  some  lard  in  ik 
large  stew-pan^  When  crnit^  botput^helrisoles  in,  and 
fry  thfem  df  a  nice  light  bibowA^  the  lai^d'  fs  n#t  hot 
^ough  for  frying  either  risoles  or  Ush  until  it  stops 
boiling:  have  some  parsliiy  picked  and  dried  on  ik 
sieve  before  tfie  fire ;  put  the  parsley  in'  the  lard  to  fi^ 
after  the  risoles  are  taken  out.  Put  the  risoles  round 
the  dish^  and  the  parsley  in  the  middle. 


ss 


A  LEG  OF  PORK  A  LA  BOISSEAU. 

The  leg  of  pork  fbr  this  purpose  should  be  in  salt^ 
about  four  days,  and  put  in  boiling  water  to  boil  a  fevr 
mihutes,  then  take  it  up  and  pull  the  rind  off;  put  it 
en  the  spit,  put  it  to  the  fire,  and  baste  it  well  with 
butter;  then  sprinkle  it  all  over  with  bread  crumbs, 
put  bread  crumbs  several  times  over  until  there  is  a 
good  coat  of  them  on  it.  Roast  it  of  a  nice  brown ; 
when  done  take  it  up  and  put  it'on  the  dish;  put  good, 
gravy  under  it :  send  apple  saUce  in  a  boat. 

A  ROULARD  OF  PORK,  ROASTED. 

Cut  the  breast  from  the  neck,  rather  wider  than 
generally  is  done ;  take  all  the  bones  out,  and  beat  it 
well  with  the  flatter,  as  it  wiil  make  it  keep  in  shape 
better :  chop  sage  and  oni6nV[;Rbout  the  same  quantity 
as  is  put  in  a  goose;  put  in  the  knuckle,  season  with 
pepper  and  salt,  roll  it  up,  and  sew  it  tight  with  a 
packing  needle  and  twine;  put  it  on  the  spit,  and 
when  i4  has  been  down  a  few  minutes  score  the  rind  i. 
when  done- put  gravy  on  the  dish^  and  then  the  pork. 

TWO  NECKS  OF  LAMB  A  LA*  CHEVAUX 

Dfi  FRISS. 

.  Trim  two  necks  of  lamb;  strip  abcmt  an  inch  and  a- 
balf  of  the  bones  pl^an  fromiaeat,  saw  the  chine  bone^, 
cut  the  scrags  ofl^  and  skin  the.fal;*  lard  the  fillets, 
which  i$  tlie  l^an  the  whole  length;  put  a  pint  of  good 
'stock  in  the*  stew-pan,  and  put  in  the  two  necfcs  of' 
l^nib:  when  done  put  them  in  the  oven  for  a  few 
ipinutel,  then  glaze  them :  {tut  cueumber  sauce  in  fbe^ 
d^sh,  put  the  iamb  oi^  the  dish,  .put  the  boneci  one^ 
If ithif^  the  other.. 


80 

A  BLANQUET  OF  PGULARD  ANO       ' 

MUSHROOMS.  ' 

Cirt  the  breast  of  one  or  two  fowls  that  have  been 

roasted  or  boiled,  into  collops  ab^ut  the  size  of  a 

crown  piece,  put'  all  fhe  otiier  part  into  a  stew-pan 

with  some  lean  ham,  a  few  shalots,  a  CigffOt  of  thjrme 

and  parslej,  a  lew  blades  of  mace,  and  about  (i  pii^t 

and  a  half  of  best  stock,  which  should  be  pale  coloured.; 

let  it  boil  very  slow  for  half  an  hour,  then  straip  it  off; 

put  a  bit  of  butter  into  a  stew-pm,  with  about  a 

spoonful  of  stock,  tut  about  a  dozen  ot  mushroon\s 

into  slices  the  same  size  as  the  fowl,  put  them  into 

the  stew-pan  that  has  the  butter  and  stock,  add  a 

littlelmhite  pepper  ^iv)  salt?  and  squeeze  half  a  4emon 

in;  let  it  isimraer  g^eotly  for  about  five  or  six  minutes; 

put  a  bit  of  butter  into  another  stew-pan,  .when 

-malted  ptrt  ad  much  flour  as  you' think  will  thicken 

tlie  quantkj^  of  sauce  walnfted^  keep  stirring  it  i\ith  k 

woMbHi"8pli^n)  then  put  in  some  of 'the  stock  the 

bdnl^of  the  fwwfe'w^re  boilfed  in,  and  a  little  creauj, 

«ilffieient  tO'ttisflfient  Avhite,  Jet  it  boil  two  or  threfe 

nMnotes^th€n''|>dt*it  ^^6  mushrooms,  and  then  tfao 

*)wl :  garitiA  with  ^ith^r  paste  or  croutons. 

» 

FIlXElS'OlfJ  MUtTON  AND  CUGtJMBER. 

Cut  the  fillet  off  the  inside  of  a  cold  chine  of 
mutton  into  tliin  ^i^^^:.  proparp  thQ  cucumber  the 
same  as  for  sauce,  (bhty  leaving  but  the  onions)  when 
'fifijshed  put  i[i,t^  mutton  to  inaise  hbt^  do  not  let 
it  boil ;   di$h  *it,  ajiftd  ^|«*ftiA  either  witJh  pasfte  €|r 

4^(»at008. 

NjECK  QV  YEAI>,^BRAis•E^>,  AND  i^AUCfi 
.'"  •   •  •  A  LA  REINfi.      • 

Trim  a  neck  of  Veal,  by  cuttingj^  the  bones  shorter, 
and  sawing  off  the  chine  bone;  put  it, into  a  whit^ 


90 

braise,  .whetidoM  *pat  it  on  a  clean^clotk  lk>  drjr 
the  fat  from  it,  put  it  ^  the  dish-aiid  pour  the  sauG0 
QV^r  it :  garnish  with  carrot  cut  for  the  purpose^ 

LOIN  OF  VEAi,. 

Cut  the  chump  off,  (which  will  copje  into  use  ellher 
as  a  fricaibdeau  or  for  daubing)  put  the  loin  6n  tbe 
spit,  butter  and  salt  and  paper  it;  it  will  take  t-wo 
itouTfi  to  roast ;  when  done  take  the  paper  off,  bast^ 
it  with  butter,  flour,  aad  s^t  it^put g^av^  and  butter 
in  the  dish,  apd  t)ie  l^iv  of  r^al  aftcfr.  ' 

A  NECK  OF  MUTTON,  BOII^ED^  AN» 

TURNIPS.  ■ 

Trim  the  mittton  by  cutting  the  rib  bdne  shorty  aed 
tawing  the  chine  bone,,  put  it  wto  cold  water^  for-an 
bouror  two  to  maki?  it  wbUe„  put  it  on  to  boU;  it 
will  take  about  an  hour  and  a  quarter,  as  fpr  tba 
time  it  will' take  it  depends  on  the  sij^e:.  i^iit.tha 
voashfed  turiiips  round  the  side  of  the  disb]».  and  tbe 
aiutton  in  the  middle :  garnish  with  carroti/^hd  send 

4ap0r  dance  ii\ie^  boQt 

N»  B.  Chop  the  capeV9  m^  p^'  tliein  ilitpVa  bpat, 
and  put  malted  butter  to  them.. 


4 


SCORCH  eOLLDPS^ 


r  Out  the  coUopsffrQmf^th^fiUia'of  ireal,  fiat  th^^ni,  and 
|Ml(  thepi :  oflr  a  tiish^  cut  a  few  ^Kaes  i»f  fi^  bacon,  and 
put  them  into  the  frving^^pahHo  di^ew  the  fa^lhltii 
them,  then  pour  the  lat  an^  bacon  into  a  bason,  put 
the  coUops  iuta  the  pan,,  andtthen  on  a  quick  stove, 
fry  them  of  a  light  brown  ^  when  brown  on  l^oth 
•idea  pi]  t  them  into  a  dtieW'pan  that  ha?  .a.sufBctent 
.^quantity  of  .couli$:  in'ii(,  make  d  few  force  meat  balla 
and  fry  them  in  the  &t  that  came  from  the  bacon; 


91 

irben  4one  put  them  on  tbo  back  of  a  siev«'  to  draiii 
Ihefot  frointbcni^iheh  putttiem  to  the  coltops,  put 
a  glass  j>f' sherry,  wmc  to  them,' and  a  little  cayenne 

pepper. 

A  SOUTIES  OP  80AL. 

.  Fillet  a  pair:  ^of  :|30Qd«  siised  soals)  4Mit  -eaeli  flltet  in 
lkee,;buttet .«  aouttcsi^pan,  and  sprinkle  it  with  pepped 
aii4MHv  eh^p^ed  paciLtty^.and  shalot;  lay  the  scmlt 
J9^;>i4id;:9et  them  ov^r  a  slow  .stove;  a  very  few 
minutes  will  do  tbem  s.  put  them  rMlnd.th(>''di<v)i^  part 
of  the  sauce  over  themi  and  the  remainder  in  the 

ii\l3^  Semper  ^e  faerbg  jkom  the  tx>tt6m  of  the 
louties-pan  into  the*  6m^- '  eoueeze  a  little  lemoo 
jaiqeip^jB^i^^  lew  dw9  jrfjlt^^^  viiiegQ^r,  >    . 


v.-  .-•-  ',    •>    I 


u  ,1.^  '^\  n:>'i  :-iCROKETS''      •  '  r'-    '        ^ 
'  .;(re  madcf  of.  tl^fe  samp  ^i^terjalB  a9  jrisole?,  jwrfy  «f 


withftie.djpa^4^  i^.the  loid^^        .,       ... 

RHENISH  CREAM. 

Beat  up  the  yolks  or  six  e^g^^  warm  a  quart  of 
jlrf^y^cp*it  yiC*to  the  .ekaf^  strain  it  thitiugb  a  iawa 
m^^i^  aud^r  iit  ufilii  nearly  cold^^  then-  pat  it  fa  Ik 
aip«ildi^gaiiii«h.mth^Chi9a:,oraqge»  ' 


\»-  -'.  -/i. 


'  « 


^BA  KAlIi. 


ttie  ^^h^aiMl.^.QI^  the  iaea  kail;  puta  little  vaehed 


I 


90 


ARTICHOKE  BOTTOMS. 

.  Pttt.tbem  to  soak  in  warm  watei*,  when  soft  trim 
them,  then  make  a  little  batter,  dip  them  in,  have 
hot  fat  readj,  put  the  artichoke  bottoms  in  and  frjr 
them  of  a  light  brgwn.  : 

LOBSTER  AV  GRATIN. 

Split  the  tail  and  body*of  the  lobster,  take  the  firii 
from  the  shell,  be  carefol  that  jou  do  not  break  the 
rshells;  cut  the  fish  up  in  small  pieces,  break  the  claw9 
aiid  cut  the  fish  op,  put  all  into  a  stew-pan  with  a 
little  sauce  Tournaj,  pepper  and  salt  them,  fill  tb& 
fihells,  and  cover  it  over  wilth  bread  crumbs,  drop  it 
: over  with  clarified  butter,  and  put  them  in  the  oven 
to^brown^  or  .brown  them  witb  a  0aiamand^.v 


i 


JaN'UARY  8th,  No.. 8,  BILL  OP  FARE. 
FIRST  CO  mist:.  SECOND  COURSE.      | 


Soup  a  la  Reine^ 

Removed  with  FISH, 
removed  with  a 
HAUNCH  OF   VKNFSOV. 


'  Umbs»  Feet, 

I        with 

J  asparagus  peas. 


A  small  salt 
'Chined  greens 


A  Soaties  of 
HiiUiaj»s. 


A^reMUjfVeaJ 
'  braised,  and 
j  raviijot  sauce. 


A  Soiiiies.  of 

Fowl  and 

Tratftes. 


A  small  Turkey, 

boiled,  unci 

oyster  jfiiue-e. 


A  Souties  of 
ilare. 


A  tiaunch  of 

Lamb,  lajoled, 

and  chervil. 


Railed  Pie 
a  r  AmJeuSfc 


X  Frame  % 


A  Raiiied 
Pie, 


fc   i»  ■ 


t\ 


Pzffo  Pheasaftfs^  one  tarded.\ 


A  Baaieei  of 
Pastry. 


-»+- 


French  Beaus 
and  sauce. 


Compete  of 
foldt*n  Pippip^. 


Macaroni. 


A  Damsoa 
Toune. 


A  Savoy  Cakd 


Spinach,  with 
croutons. 


'   -' 


Compote  of 
Pearfr. 


» ■  «* 


Fat  L'lvem,  In 
cascii* 


A  Seek  of  Mat. 
twi,  hirded,  aud 
j      eudive. 


A  Souiics  of 
Sweetbreads,  . 

aud 
pujiiaut  satice* 


t  Three  boiled 


I  . 


Chickei.s 


-! 


A  Neck  of  V>- 

o'^on,  ste*ted, 

lind  ro4its. 


kla 


reiue. 


Tenderoiies  of 
VVai  a  la  poulet 


J  Frame  J 


•  Three 
Plovers^ 


^^ 


Mince  PifS. 


A  8oitties  (if 

Phea^junt  and 
Truifles. 


A^  tongue, 
glazed,  and 
turnips. 


Calves'  f^rs, 

forced,  and 

Italian  sauce. 


Aoup  J  uiicn^ 

Removed  with  FISH, 

removed  with  a 

SIRl.OLN   OF  BEEF. 


Fatf/ivers,  ill 

\*ases. 


Com  pole  of 
Pears. 


Spinach,  Mith 
crouionSi 


A  Savoy  Cake. 


Cranberry " 
Tourte, 


Macaroiii. 


*'■"•'    :-*  r 


Compote  of 
Goldeu  Pippins, 

.^■^-fc  . . —  .  ■  - .    ■■ 


Aspar&gii^. 


Basket  of 
PSistry. 


I — t^ 


A  Ilare^  larded. 


u 

.  ■       i 

Ko.  8,  BILLOF  FAJtE,  FIRST  COURSE, 

LAMBS'  FEET,  WITH  ASPARAGUS  PEAS. 

It  will  take  twelvelambs^  fe^t  to  make  a  dish ;  they  ai 
scalded  by- the  batcher :  t^ke  the  worm  iVom  betweei 
the  hoof  first,  then  loosen  the  6kin  and  gristle  froi 
the  shank  bon^,  theh  put  them  on  in  eold  water,  h 
idem  boil  utltil  the  shank  bone  will  d;raw  put.withoi 
breakttig  the  i^kih,  ihela  put  them  into  a  stew 
peel  two  lemons,  cut  Utetii  iti  slices,  and  pu;t  thei 
over  the  lamb^^  feet  tb  keep  ifteiti  wfaite^  ad^  abioui 
hair  a*p{nl>i>f  good  Votk>  cdyer' the  feet  over  wit] 
slices  of  burebn^and  papeVover  th^t;  ^et  the  fiitew-paq, 
on  the  stove  to  'sim'mer  Verjrgentl/for  half  an  hour,! 
or  nntii  thejr  ^v6  quite;  fender  \  when  done*  put' theia' 
aade  till  Wanted :  put  the  Asparagu^peas  intp  a  stew- 
t>an  «with  a  littlo  atOck,  put  it  on  the  stove  to  bojl 
till  redueed  neieirly  t:oa  gla2e;  add  a  little  beshjenae|l» 
and  a  little  ereatfi  if  ntyt  White  etiou«;h,V  take  the 
lambs'  feet  up  and  lay  them  on  a  clean  cloth,  then 
put  them  round  the  djsh^  put  a.littl^  beshemell  over 
the  feet,  and  the  aspai-agus  pea^  iit  the  iniddle :  gar* 
tiish  either  with  paste  :or  croutons* 

TURKEY,  BOILED,  AND  OYSTBfe  SAUCE, 

Is  dottQ  the  same  as  a  fowl  and  ojater  safuee:  the 
turkey  will  take  longer. .    .  /      ^ 

A  SOUTIES  OF  HARE. 

Cut  the  back  and  legs  of  a  hare.Jfito  coJlopS)  flat 
them  and  put  theni  on  a  souties-pan  that  has  been 
butterec^  sprinkle  tliem  with  pepper  aud<salt,^put a. 
glass  of  Madeira  wine  in  the  pan,  ^nd  cover  the  pan 
over  iffn<il  a  few  minutes  betore  dishiiiff  time,  (all 
aottties  should  be  got  ready'  aad  covered  over  until 


9h 

dkhing  time)  put.  the  bones  and  the  remainder  of 
the  hare  into  a  stew-pan^  with  a  little  lean  ham,  a 
a  few  shaiots>  a  fag^gpt  of  sweet  herbs,  a  little  mace^ 
Bodapihtiof  best  ^oek;  pntiton  the  stove  to  boil 
gently  for  an  hour,  then  strain  ^t  off,  pull  the  meat . 
Iroin  Ae^bones,  put  it  into  the  mortar  aiid  pound  it 
yery,  due ;  then  put.  a  bit  of  butter  into  a  jstew^-pan^ 
when  m^lt^  put  flour /to  dry  it  up,  theit  put  in  the 
liqiior!th^.hare  ^as'do^^  illi^and  the  hafje  that  hM' 
b^ii^pbiiftdcd  in  the,jtnortar;  M  it  boil  il  fe#  miautes^ 
ke^p.-8tixring  it  whiW  on  the  fire,  then  rti^  it  through 
the'tt^ihj;  return  it  into  the  stew-pan,  slice  a  few  ' 
trpSte^  tind.put  theni  in  the  satic^,  squeei^^  half  a '^ 
letAon^  add  a  little  dust  of  sugar,  and  a  little  tayennci 
p^per;  th^n  put  tb^  jkputi^«)P^n  that  has  the  hiara 
in  oh  the  6toVe,  When  on  a.  fi^w  vmijnutes  turn  them  j 
when  4<>be '  put  the  liare  rouJ^d  tfj^  dishf  then  podir 
th^'  ii^Uoi' that  fa  In  the  souties-pap.  •  tp  .the  sauce,  { 
tniK^  It  quite  bdt^  put  a  little  sauoe  over  the  hare^ 
anti; the  remainder  w(tb  the .  trusts  in  the  middle  x 
gaiiiisfiMp^ith  p^st^»       '    « 

•     A  SOtTIES  OF IWHITINgs.         . 

t^illet  as  many  whitiligs  as  are  tfufiiGient  for  the  ' 
di\»h,  cut  each  fillet  in  two,  butter  a  souties-pan,  flat 
the  fillcta  (otherwise  (hejr^  woulid  c|irl  lip)  and  put 
them  in  tbe  s6uti<es-pan  ;  make  a  little  beshemell.hot, 
and  .put  dilittlt^  anchovy  essence,  in,  a  few,  drops  of. 
garlick  vinegar,  and  a  little  cajrehne  pepper ;'  put  tHe 
souties-pan  over  the  stove,  when  on  a  few  minutes 
turn  them ;  whe^i  done  put  them  round  the  dish,  and 
part  of  the  sauce  over  them,  and  the  remainder  in 
the  middle  r  garnish  either  with  croutons  or  paste. 

BREAST  OF  VEAL  AND  RAVlGOT  SAUCE. . 

^i^isethe  yesd  as  directed  in  page  63;  take  the  ~ 
ieaderones  from  the  breast^  as  they  will  do  for  th« 
comer  dish. 


-ft 


'^\i    /'. 


1 1 


9*6 

• 

■'    •  .       .               .       • 

HAM  PWlj 

•I,           „     ,» 

ft^se  9  pie  according  to  the  eizp^  of  th^  dish' that 'it  . 
k  intended^tb  go  oa ;.  lay  a.ie^  .fllicos  of  veal  ^dtf  tfe^ 
/bottom  of  the  .pie,  and  soia^  i^ood  iiime  upon  iff 
then  put  in  the  ptime  part  of  a  Wefitpbalin  ^  ham 
that  has  beenbrvaised  iiu(;il'  rtliree  parts  done^^-ptit 
farce  all^  rouud  it,  cover  k'  m  andi  finish  eis  "Aifirj^ 
durects^;  when  doue'pour  o^  the  fel^ihave-some  ^ood 
taulis.hot,  add  a  gluss.of  Madeir^iwifie  to  it,'  and  'ptiC 
it  into  the  pi^ :  it  witt  be  e»ceUeut  either  iicrt  or^'cold; 

,   Rais^  a  pie  to  match  the. ham  pie  ;  .boi^e  two  diJ^kt 
Und  fill  them  \yith  farce  ; . put' the  bon^,  afew  ^liQe« 
of  lean  haiUj   and  anj^  other  ir|mm|ngs  of  po^ultry 
into  a  stew-pan ;  put  a  little  stock,/a  &w  ouioiuss,  a 
faggot  of  sueet  herbs,  a  few  bay  leaves,  and  a  little 
mace  ;  set  the  etew'^pan  on  tl^e-jfre,-  ptiitlicttucks  in, 
cover  tijem  over  with  ba<;6n,  and  l^t  them  stixmier 
forlialf  ttii  hour,-th<^npul  them  tO  c6o] ;.  Wheji   colct 
pal  them  in-the  pie,  firs^laJing.  a*ifesv  rfic^S  of  veal  at 
the  bottony  afid  farce  on  the  vtial ;  putthe  ducks  in 
with  farce-  round-  the  sides  to  fill  up.  put  sheets   of 
bacon  over  them,  6ever  the  pie,'  and  finish  the  ^lue 
as  the  ham  pie..    Put  ^bont  a  qcmrt  of  stock  to  the   ' 
bones  of  the  dutSbs^&c.  put- ?t  on  the  fire  to  sitonier 
gently  for  an  ^KHir,  then  strain  it  oif^  and  {^kioi    the 
fet  from  it:  put  a'bit  of  butter  into  a  jstew-pan,  Vhon 
melted  put  as  much  flour  as  will  dry  it  up;  then  put 
the  liquor  the  bones^  .&c.  were  boiled  in,  let  it^boil  a 
few  minutes,*  put  in  a  gilVof  Madeira,  t\\(^i\  stUain  it 
throng  the  tciHimj,  and  put  it  back  irtto  ihe»'c,tKe%i7U 
pag^  with  about  haif  a  pounds  of  ti^uffles'that'tlav^ 
been  braided,  peeled,  and  cut  in  slices.  *•*'*.'    - 


ST 

A  SOUTiES  OF  PHliaSANT. 

Cdt  the  breasts  of  two  pheasants  into  collops,  Ihit 
i£eiD,  and  put  them  on  a  souties-paa  that  has  been 
battered,  and  put  a  few  spoonfuls  of  sherry ;  set  them 
on  the  stove  for  a  few  minutes  at  dishing  time :  (all 
flouties  should  be  left  until  the  last  minute)  the  sauce 
is  made  as  follows : — ^put  about  a  quarter  of  a  pound 
of  lean  ham^  cut  in  very  thin  slices,  into  a  stew-pan 
*  wi&  the  bones  of  the  jpheasants,  a  few  shalots,  a  faggot 
of  tiyme  and  parsley,  a  few  blades  of  mace,  and  a 
]£nt  of  good  stock;  s^  the  stew-pan  over  the  firo 
to  boil  su>w  for  an  hour,  then  strain  Jt  ojff :  put  a 
bit  of  butter  into  a  stew-pan,  when  melted  put  flour 
sufficient  to  dry  it  up,  then  put  the  liquor  in,  give 
it  a  boil  up  fbr  a  few  minutes,  and  strain  it  through 
the  tammy  ;  return  it  into  the  stew-pan,  put  a  few 
slices  of  truces  in,  squeeze  half  a  lemon,  and  put 
a  little  dost  of  sugar ;  finish  the  souties,  put  it  round 
tbe  dish  and  the  sauce  in  the  middle :  garnish  with 
paste. 

A  SOUTIES  OF  SWEETBREAD. 

Blanch  two  large  throat  sweetbreads  and  cut  them 
In  slices ;  butter  a  soiitreA-p4n,  and  sprinkle  it  with 
dM^pped  skalots,  parsley,  mushrooms,  and  a  little 
pepper  and  salt;  put  the  sweetlH'eads  on^  dnd  put 
them  over  the  stove  for  a  few  minutes,  turn  them, 
^d  put  them  round  the  dish  ;  haVe  some  sauce  Tour- 
i^ry  inastew^pan,  empty  the  souties-pan  into-the  sauoe, 
€aiiih  the  sauix^  .P^i.A  little  over  the  sweetbreads, 
and  the  femaindler  in  t^e  middle  of  the  dish ;  garnish 
Vkh  paste*  ' 

TONGUE  ANT)  TURNIPS. 

Boil  the  tongue,  peel  and  trim  it,  glaze  it,  and 
|amish  it  with  turnip  and  carrot  roses;  put  the 
tUMtp  rtSSiiM  jthe  l^e  pf  the  dish,  and  then  the 
tongue  :  garnish  with  carrot. 

w 


^ENDERONES  OF  VEAL  A  LA  POUL^T 

'Sleaiis,  to  put  white  sauce  over  tbem : '  garniSli 
T^ith  croutons  r  paste. 

CALVES'  EARS. 

Teh  eats  Will  be  sufficient  for  a  corner  dish ;  the 
ears  should  be  particularly  Well  cleaned,  so  as  to  be 
quke  free  from  hair  inside  as  well  as  outside;  fill 
them  with  forced- meat,  first  brush  the  inside  "well 
with  eggy  then  put  in  the  forced-meat,  put  them  in  a 
stew-pan  with  a  ifhite  braise  in  it :  tney  will  take 
about  an  hout*;  tHey  should  simmer  very  slow;  when 
c!one  take  th^m  u^  and  put  thtem  on  a  clean  cloth  to 
soak  the  fat  from  them,  then  put  them  round  the 
dish,  pour  white  Italian  sauce  oVer  them,  and  a 
little  HI  the  middle  of  the  dish:  g^arnifih  with  paste 
ot  croutons. 

SOUP  JULIAN 

Is  nearly  the  same  as  soup  sante^  only  leaving;  out 
the  lettuce  and  chervil. 

DAMSON  TOURTE. 

Sheet  the  tart-pan  with  puff  paste^  put  preserved 
damsons  in^  and  cross-bar  it  over^ 

PLOVERS 

Should  hliB  under  done ;  libout  ten  minutes  Will  do 
them  ;  put  graVy  in  the  dish,  hnd  then  the  plovers ; 
garnish  with  watet-cresses. 

N.B.  They  should  be  basted  with  butter,  and 
dredged  with  fialt  and  flour  before  taken  from  the  fire. 

CURRANT  TOURTE. 

Sheet  the  tart-pan  with  puff  paste,  put  preserved 
eurrants  in^  and  cross-bar  it. 


9i^ 

COMPOTE  OF  PEARS. 

Cut  them  clown  the  middle,  (jfirst  peel.tbem)  and 
take  out  the  cores :  put  a  pound  of  sugar  on  to  bail 
in  about  a  pint  of  water,  skim  it  till  it  is  quite  clear, 
then  put  a  pint  of  Port  wine  to  it,  a  few  cloves,  and 
some  cinnamon  ;  put  t^velve  pears  ijnto  a  preserving* 

Soi,  and  pour  the  sugar  and  wine  over  them,  cover 
em  over  with  paper,  and  let  them  boil  gentry  until 
t^fider :  when  done  put  them  in  a  deep  baking  dish 
tb  cool :  garnish  with  sUces  of  preserved  orange. 

COMPOTE  OF  GOLDEN  PIPPINS. 

Peel  tlhe  pippins  very  thin  and  even,  then  put  them 
into  a  bason  of  cold  water,  first  taking  the  C9res  out 
with  a  scoop :  put  the  peelings  and  cores  on  to  boil 
in  about  half  a  pint  of  water,  a  pint  of  white  wine, 
a  pound  of  lump  sugar,  a  little  cinnamon,  and  a 
lemon  cut  in  slices :  Set  the  stew-pan  on  the  stove  to 
boil  verj  slow  for  an  hour,  strain  it  through  a  lawp 
sieve  into  a  snail  preserving-pan ;  put  the  apples  in, 
cover  them  over,  and  put  them  over  the  stove  to  boil 
very  gently  until  tender ;  when  done  take  them  up 
one  by  one  with  a  small  slice,  put  them  on  the  dish ; 
reduce  the  syrup  to  as  much  as  will  cover  them : 
garatsii  with  preserved  orange  in  sttcet.     ■'■■'■". 


*  I' 


^9 


JANUARY  9th,  No.  9,  BILL  OF  FARE. 


sE  i 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Soup  a  la  Flamondy 
Removed  with  i^ISHy 
,  removed  with  a 
LOIN  •F  VKAL  a  laBeihemcll: 


Semelis,  and 
piqiKitit  sauee. 


"  •  ■■  '    f  I 


N€ckofVenisoii 
and  roots. 


II I » f  ■>  I    ■■■I  ii 
A.  TimbaU  of 
Macaroni  and 
Chicken. 


Petit  F4tes  of 
Sweetbreads. 


Thiree  Cliickens 
4  la  reine. 


FilleU  of  Fowl, 
larded,  glazed,-, 
and  tomata  sauce 


-r*—r 


A  Haunch  of 
Lamb. 


\.  raised  Mutton 
Pie, 


SECOND  COURSE 


Two  WUd  Ducks. 


Basket  of 
Pastry. 


French  Beans 
find  sauce, 


Mince  t^ies. 


>•»- 


^ 


Wax  Basket 
Prawns. 


Asparagus. 


Cheesecake. 


Salsifie,  fried 
in  batter. 


t      '»     I     "'■'  ■  ■!■■       I    il    I 

Four  Pigeons, 
larded,  gl<azed, 
and  mushrooms. 


^ 


Stewed  Beef, 
aod  roots. 


SoupSaste, 
removed. 

with  Fish, 

removed 

with  a 

SttckSngPig] 


iFraoie  J 


■ 


^-  »»l ,' 


Afoct  Tur- 
tle remoted 
With  Fish, 

reiaovM 

with  a 

Haunch  of 

Venison. 


Caoiiflmrer, 

with  sauce  k  la 

ccinc. 


A  Ghan«iUy 
Basket,    . 


Piths  an  gratin. 


Sea  Kail. 


Savoy  Cake. 


Rump 

4(UMiintiia 
au  choux. 


of  Beef  j  I A  Ham,  braised, 
Ikntua    1  iflaxied. 


Grenadines,  add 
sorrel  sauce. 


acd  spinach. 


Tliree 
Partridges. 


[■I  i'l  I  !■»■• 

^Frame : : 

tu  M  lit 


A  Savoy  Cake. 


Fillet,  of  lUb.         s,^^, 
bits,  glazed,  and 


asparagus  peas. 


Raised  Beef    }|  Chartreuse  of 


fiteak  Pie. 


Turkey  ajul 
chesDuts. 


Small  raised 


roots. 


A  Sparerib, 
roast. 


'^laintenon 

;i  **  *^    oi^     II   Cutlets,  and 
I  Mutton  Pies.    \  |  ppiy^e'sauce. 


Piths  au  gratio. 


AC^antrlly 
Basket. 


Cauliflower 
h  la  Flamond. 


Cheesecakes. 


ii 


■««•*■ 


a 


Mock  Turtle^ , 
" -Removed  with  FISH, 

removed  with  a 
CHINE  OF  MUTTON. 


Asparagui. 


k  Wax  Basket, 
with  Cray  Fish. 


Salsifie,  fried 
in  batter. 


Mince  Pies, 


French  Beans 
and  sauce. 


A  Basket  of 
Pastry. 


ji  Capon* 


101 

Fo.  9,  BILL  OF  fare:,  FIRST  COURSE. 

SEMELLS,  AND  PIQUANT  SAUCE. 

Cut  some  slices  from  a  fillet  of  veal,  the  same  s\z0 
tnd  shape  as  lamb  cutlets,  ami  finish  them  exactly 
the  same  ivay. 

TIMBALL  OF  MACARONI  AND  CHICKEN- 

Qoil  the  tnacaroni  first  in  water  and  about  aiv 
ounce  of  butter;  when  it  has  boiled  a  few  minutes 
strain  it  off  and  return  it  into  the  stew-pan  again ; 
put  half  a  pint  of  good  stocky  put  it  on  a  slow  stove, 
and  let  boil  slow  until  the  stock  is  reduced,  then 
prepare  a  fricasee  of  chicken ;  when  finished,  put 
the  macaroni  to  it  with  about  a  quarter  of  a  pound 
of  Parmasan  cheeSe:  jiist  make  all  hot,  then  put  it 
to  cool;  while  it  is  cooling  butter  the  mould  well, 
sprinkle  it  with  fine  hreacT  crumbs,  and  line  it  with 
half,  puff  paste.  When  the  chickea  4i>nd  ittacorom  is^ 
^pite  cold  put  it  in  t^  mould,  -cover  it;  in,  and  bake 
It  in  rather  a  slack,  oven:  when  done  tMrn  it  ouf^ 
cut  the  top  off,  aiid- put, a  little  bfsliemeU  ia.tt# 
iimball,  and  some  round  the  disb. 

FILLETS  OF  FOWL,  LARDED,  AND 

TOMATA  SAUCE,  _^ 

Cut  the  wingH  of  the  fowl  off,  lard  them  and  tb« 
breast,  (the  skin  should  be  pulled  ofi^  bone  the  legs, 
that  fe,  take  out  the  thigh  bones  and  part  of  the-Jeg, 
fill  the  legs  with  forced  meat,  and  sew  them  up ; 
then  put  the  bones  of  the  fowl  into  a  etew^pan,  .W4th 
about  a  pint  of  good  st^ck,  and  the  fillet^,  ]eg;s^  and 
breast  of  the  fowl ;  put  the  stew-pan  over  tne  fire 
to  simmer  very  slow  until  tender  r*then  take  them  up 
and  put  them  in  the  ove;u  for  a  few  minutes  to  l^rm^e 
I  the  bacon,  glaze  them  twice  over,  put  t]^  saocejon 
the  dish^  and  the  fillets  op  the  sa^ce ;  ^^^k^  witb 
paste  or  croutons. 


102 

A  SUCKING  PIG. 

Pot  ;cbopped  sagte,  bread  crumbs,  and  a  litUc 
pepper  and  salt  in  the  inside,  put  it  on  the  fi^iland 
"put  it  down  to  the  fire  for  a  few  minutes ;  rub  it  well 
over  with  sallad  oil,  (do  it  with  a  brush)  then  flour 
it  quite  thick,  and  keep  flouring  it  every  five  or  ten 
minutes,  it  will  take  about  an  hour  and  a  hal<^  but 
that  depends  on  the  size:  about  ten  minutes  before 
taken  up  cut  the  bead  ofiT,  wipe  the  flour  off,  and 
brush  it  over  with  sailad  oil;  then  take  it  up,  split 
the  head  and  chop  the  tongue  and  brains,  put  them 
into  a  stew-pan  with  a  little  stock  and  melted  butter, 
put  to  the  bread  crumbs,  &c. — split  the  pig  down  the 
back,  put  the  sauce  on  the  dish,  and  then  the  pig; 
send  egg  sauce  in  a  boat^  and  a  boat  of  the  other 
sauce. 

BUMP  OF  BEEF  A  LA  MANTUA. 

>  Take  the  bone  out  and  trim  it,  then  daub  it  and 
ptit  it  into  a  marinade  for  twolve  hours,  then  put  it 
V  into  a  brown  braise,  put  four  large  carrots  in  with  it, 
^andfeur  bundles  of  cabbage,  one  hour  before  the  beef 
is  done :  when  done  take  it  up  and  trim  it,  and  then 
gla^e  it;  put  sauce  AUemande  on  the  dish},  and  then 
the  cabbage,  with  a  piece  of  carrot  between  each 
bundle. 

^  GRENADINES  OF  VEAL 

Means  small  pieces  of  veal,  finished  the  same  as. a 
iricandeau. 

RAISED  BEEF  STEAK  PIE. 

^  Raise  a  pie  to  the  size  of  the  dish  intended  for  it, 
'  cut  some  beefsteaks,  butter  a  souties-pan,  and  sprinkle 
*  it    with    shalot,    thyme,    parsley,    and    mushrooms, 

chopped  very  fine ;  put  the  beefsteaks  on  and  season 
■  thcra  with  pepper  and  salt ;  w^hen  they  have  been 
^'^n  a  few  minutes  turn  them,  pepper  and  salt  them, 

and  then  pat  them  to  cool  i  when  quite  cold  put  then 


103 

in  {he  pie^  scrape  all  tli6  herbs  from  the  souties-pan 
and  put  them  in  the  pie,  cover  it  in  and  ornament 
it  as  jou  please;  put  it  in  the  oven;  when  done 
take  the  top  off  ana  put  in  some  good  coults. 

SALSIFIE,  FRIED. 

Boil  it  first,  then  peel  it  and  cut  it  into  proper 
lengths ;  put  it  in  batter  and  fry  it  of  a  nice  lij^ht 
'  hrown. 

'  CHANTILLY  BASKET. 

Stick  ratafias  on  the  dish,  in  the  shape  of  a  gam 
paste  basket,  with  carmel  sugar;  put  in  the  sa:ne 
preparation  as  for  the  bottom  of  a  trifle,  and  whipped 
aream  at  the  top. 

PIGEONS,  LARDED  AND  GLAZED,  AND 

MUSHROOMS. 

Draw  in  the  legs  of  the  pigeons,  lard  them,  put  them 
into  a  stew-pan,  cover  them^  over  with  fat  bacon, 
.  and  put  them  on  the  stove  to  simmer  until  done;  th#n 
'  pour  off  the  liquor,  skim  the  fat  off,  and  reduce 
<  It  to  a  glaze ;  put  the  mdshrooms  to  it,  glaze  the 
..pigeons;  put  the.  mushrooms  on  the  dish,  and  then 
the  pigeons. 

FILLETS  OF  RABBIT 

Means  the  ^fillet  of  the  back  left  to  the  leg ;  lard 
them,  and  finish  the  same  as  fillets  of  fowl. 

A  CHARTREUSE. 

Line  a  plain  mould  with  bacon,  cut  turnip  and 
carrot  into  fancy  flowers  and  leaves  to  ornament  the 
bottom  and  sides,  prepare  spinach,  carrots,  turnips, 
and  cellery,  (they  must  all  be  cold)  scoop  the  turnips 
and  carrots  with  chartreuse  scoops,  roll  the  spinach 
the  size  of  the  carrots,  cut  the  cellerjr  the  same  lengthy 
put  spinach  in  the  bottom,  and  the  pillars  of  carrot, 
turnip,  and  cellerj  regularly,  then  put  ia  forced-meat 

F  4 


n 


104 

roUect  cHft  lLj%  m  the  bottogi  apd  round  tbe  8}tle»^ 
the  8fime  tvay  Ad  jou  would  put  paste,  then  fill  it  up 
jM'ith  cauliflower  and  l^esheniell,  and  coyer  it  oyer 
with  paste  well  egged ;  then  put  t^e  mould  into,  a 
fttew-pan  and  put  in  water  so  as  to  come  halfway  up 
the  mould,  then  put  the  stew-pan  in  the  oven — it  will 
take  ar>  hour  or  more;  when  done  put  it  on  the  disb, 
^ull  the  mould  off,  take  the  bacon  (xff,  and  soak  the 
Iht  up  with  a  cloth  that  comes  froni  the  bacon ;  piii 
;ivhite  sauce  round  the  dish:  garnish  witk carrot ro^cf* 

A  CAPON 
.    Will  take  half  an  hour  to  roast. 

MAINTENOxN  CUTLET9. 

Cut  the  cutlets  from,  the  loin ;  pu|:  abou^  a  qj^^tei^ 
6f  a  pound  of  butter  into  a  souties-pan,  put  the  cutlets 
in  so  as  to  just  set  them^  then  have  some  bread 
crumbs^  chopped  shalot,  parsley,  and  lemon  thyme  ; 
Btiix,  them  with  the  bread  crumbs,  and  pepper  and 
99dt  it.  Cut  three  large  sheets  of  writing  paper  ia 
&ur  eadbu  lay  them  in  the  butter  the  cutlets  were 
done  in^  tpen  rpU  the  cutlets  in  bread  crumbs  so  asLto 
iQ^kg  ds  many  stidc  to  tb^  cutlets  m  yqu.can^  ihqm 
fold  it  up  in  the  buttered  paper* 


JANUARY  W,  No.  F^,  BILL  OF  FARE. 


*■    I  I 


Petit  Pat^s. 


Stew'd  Partridge 
and  Cabbage. 

Palate?,  rolled, 

glazed,  and 

ra^ou'd. 


A  Neck  of 

Mnttoa,  boiled, 

and  Turnips. 


FIRST  COUftSit 


Whife  Soupy 

Removed  with  FISH, 

removed  with  a 

HAU.NiH  OF  Vh^NISON. 


Lamb  Cutlets 

and 

Cucumber  sauce 


A  Fillet  of  Pork 

and 

rober  sauce. 


Harrrcot  of 
Mutton. 


Boiled  Chicken 
a  la  reine. 


SKCOiND  ^JOUllSE. 


Woodcocks, 


Blaoc  Mange.' 


Musbroomi. 


Potted  Ham. 


Small  Puddings, 
and  wine  sauce. 


Soup, 

removed 
%Uh  Fish 
.  removed 
wilh  stew' 
fteefjgfaz* 
and  Spanish 
sattce. 


j:  Frame 

+  '.    -         s 


*i- 


Soup, 

removed 

with  Fish, 

removed 

with  a 

Westphalia 

Ham', 
glazed,  &c. 


Two  Rabbits 
ind  onion  lauce. 


A  Roulard  oi 

Rlutton,  and 

iHirricot  beans. 


A  Matelot  of 
Eel. 


Ris'>lps. 


Leg  of  Lamb, 

boiled, 
and  spindcb. 


Two  Ducks, 

forted,  braided, 

and  turnips. 


Beef  Olives, 

and  scooped 

potatoes. 

Petit  Pftfes, 


Removed  with  FISH, 

removed  with 

ROAST   BEEF.' 


French  Beans, 

with 
white  sauce. 


Ham^nd  Toast, 
ipi  ith  sauce. 


^ifelly  an  Marbt^^ 


Ham  and,  Toait^ 
and  sauce. 


Brawn. 


Mince  Pies. 


Asparagus. 


Mushrooms, 
broiled. 


Three  Teal, 
roast. 


• 


Asparagus. 


Mince  Pies. 


Brawn. 


Ham  and  Toast. 


Orange  Jelly. 


French  Beans. 


^mall  Puddings. 


Potted  Hare. 


Mushrooms, 
broiled. 


Cederata  Cream 


Wild  Ducks. 


■V  6 


J 


s^ 


106 

[  No.  lOy  BILL  OF  FAHE. 

RABBITS  AND  ONIONS. 

Skewer  two  rabbits  to  look  as  like  the  chicken  m 
^you  cao,  let  them  lie  in  water  for  an  hour  before 
thej  are  boiled ;  they  will  take  about  twenty  minutes 
to  boil ;  make  oivion  sauce  as  follows ; — put  three 
'Portugal  onions  on  to  boil,  first  peel  them  and  cut 
them  in  slices,  boil  them  for  one  hour  at  least,  then 
strain  them  off  and  squeeze  the  water  well  from 
them,  put  them  into  a  tammy  and  rub  them  through, 
then  put  them  into  a  stew-pan  with  about  four  ounces 
of  butter,  a  little  flour,  about  half  a  pint  of  good 
cream,  and  a  little  salt ;  put  the  stew-pan  over  the 
stove,  keep  stirring  it  while  on  the  fire ;  let  it  boil  a 
few  minutes,  then  put  it  by  till  wanted ;  it  should  be 
sufficiently  thick  so  as  to  remain  on  the  rabbits  when 
put  over  them. 

N.  B.  When  the  sauce  is  made  with  the  coraRion 
onions,  the  water  should  be  changed  at  least  three 
times,  they  being  so  much  stronger  than  the  Portugal 
onions. 

BLANC  MANGE. 

Put  one  ounce  and  a  half  of  isinglass  into  a  stew- 
pan  to  boil  with  about  half  a  pint  of  water,  put  it  to 
the  side  of  the  stove  so  as  to  barely  simmer;  whea 
dissolved  strain  it  into  another  stew-pan  that  has  a 
pint  of  good  cream,  a  pint  of  good  milk,  the  peel  of 
a  lemon,  and  a  little  cinnamon  and  sugar  in  it  r 
blanch  three  ounces  of  sweet  almonds,  and  half  an 
ounce  of  bitter,  then  put  them  in  the  mortar  an4 
pound  them  very  fine,  put  a  dpoorrftil  of  ivater  to 
them  several  times  while  pounding,  as  it  keeps,  theoi 
white;  when  sufficiently  fine  to  go  through  the 
t^inmy,  put  them  to  the  milk  and  cream :  put  the 
stew-pan  on  the  fire  to  boil  for  about  fifteen  minutes^ 
then  rub  it  through  the  tammy ;  be  sure  and  get  :ill 
the  almonds  throiigh  ]  whea  half  cold  put  in  about 


107 

a  fill  of  ratafia,  if  convenient,  otherwise  a  glass  of 
brafidy :  when  it  begins  to  get  thick  put  it  in  the 
mould. 

HAM  AND  TOAST. 

Cut  about  eight  pieces  of  ham  in  the  shape  and 
thickness  of  a  lamb  cutlet,  (ham  that  has  been  dressed 
will  do  better  than  what  is  not  dressed)  cut  as  many 
pieces  of  bread  the  same  shape,  fry  the  bread  of  a 
nice  gold  colour,  and  the  ham  of  a  light  brown,  lay 
the  ham  and  toast  round  the  dish,  first  ham  and  then 
toast ;  put  a  little  coulis  over  the  ham,  aild  some  in 
the  middle. 

MUSHROOMS,  BROILED. 

Trim  them  and  pepper  and  salt  them,  put  a  small 
bit  of  butter  in  each  mushroom,  put  them  on  a  souties* 
pan  and  put  them  in  the  oven  ;  when  done  put  them 
on  the  dish,  and  the  liquor  that  comes  from  them  over. 

CHINA  ORANGE  JELLY. 

Rub  the  bloom  of  six  China  oranges  on  half  a 
pound  of  lump  sugar ;  as  you  rub  it  on  the  sugar 
scrape  what  comes  off  the  oranges  on  a  plate :  peel 
tliree  Seville  oranges  (when  to  be  had)  and  three 
lemons  very  thin,  put  them  into  a  <>tew-pan  with  a 
pint  and  a  half  of  water,  an  ounce  ana  a  half  of 
isinglass,  a  little  cinnamon,  a  few  coriander  seeds, 
and  the  sugar  that  is  left  from  what  was  rubbed  to 
the  oranges  ;  boil  it  for  about  a  quarter  of  an  hour, 
then  strain  it  into  a  bason,  put  a  pint  of  white  wine, 
a  glass  of  brandy^  and  the  juice  of  the  oranges  and 
lemons  to  itPstrain  it  through  a  lawn  sieve,  then 

tut  in  the  sugar  that  was  rubbed  to  the  oranges ; 
cep  stirring  it  until  quite  cold  and  begins  to  get 
thick,  then  put  it  in  the  mould  :  garnish  with  China 
orange  sliced. 

N.  B.  If  you  should  have  clear  jelly  to  sparej  that 

p  6 


n 


1^ 

Will  anffwcr  t^e  parpose  b^Uf^r  th^Rg^^  jit  ^<aik 
the  isingUss.  I?i]b  the  bloom  of  8i^  qrauges  upon  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  sugar,  squeeze  the  qrpfig^lS} 
strain  the  juice,  and  put  that  and  the  sugar  to  a 
quart  of  clear  jelly  that  is  melted ;  keep  stirring  it 
until  it  begins  to  get  thick,  than  put  it  into  th«^ 
mould. 


JANUARY  Iltli,  N<K  11,  BILL  OF  FARE. 


Petit  pates  of 
Sweetbread. 


tiR)iV  COURSE. 


Soup  a  la  Reine^ 

Removed  with  FISH, 

removed  with  a 

TURKFY  AND  TRUFFLFS. 


A  Chine  of 
Lam  by  and  cu- 
cumber sauce. 


A  Sonties  of 

Mottoo,  and 

piquant  sauce. 


A  Rump  of  Veal 

k  la  daube, 

l^lazed  and 

sorrel  sauce. 


Crokets.      I 


Fillet  of  Veal 
a  la  Mamond 


Fricasee  of 
Chicken  and 
Mushrooms. 


Calves'  Head, 

hashed  and 

grilled. 


Soup 
Cressy, 
removed 


t 


-*-H->-H- 


t 


with  a     I  if  rame  1 
Raised  Pie   ttiimi 
&la 
Frao^oif. 


Clear  Soup, 

removed 

with  Fish, 

removed 

with  a 

raised 

Pigeon  Pie. 


Brisket  of  Beef, 

stewed,  and 

roots. 


A  Fricasee  of 
Rabbit. 


A  Legof  Pork^ 
4  la  boisseau. 


Risdles. 


SECOM),  COURSE. 

Snipes. 


A  Savoy  Cake. 


flagofttMell^. 


Cheesecakes. 


An  Omelet 
Souffle. 


A  Basket  of 
Pastry. 


Chantilly 
Haskrt. 


Artichoke' 
Bottoms,  in 
sauce. 


Mince  Pies, 


■* 


Sea  Kail. 


A  Wax  Basket 
with  Cray  Fish.1 


Four 
Plovers. 


^.■■am^MM^ 


t 
::  Frame! 

T 


A  Fillet  of  Mut- 

tonandharl'icot 

beans.. 


A  Souties  of 

Veal 

and  encumber. 


A  Neck  of 
Vem^onf-roast. 


Petit  Pfttei  of 
Oysters. 


Mock  Turtle^ 
Removed  with  FISH, 

removed  with  a 
SIRLOIN  OF  BEEF. 


Pheasant. 


A  Wax  Basket 
with  Prawns. 


Sea  Kail. 


Mioce  Pie8« 


Artichoke 

Bottoms,  in 

savce. 


A  Trifi«. 


A  Basket  with 
Pastry. 


An  Omelet 
Souffle. 


\j  lieesecakes . 


■* 


RagoiitMell^. 


A  Savoy  Cake, 


Wild  Ducks. 


««WW«MH 


11© 

No.  U,  BILL  OF  FARE. 

RUMP   OF   VEAL   A  LA    DAUBE,  AND 

SORREL  SAUCE. 

«  The  rump  of  veal  is  taken  from  the  loin :  cut  it 
according  to  the  size  wanted,  take  the  bone  out,  and 
datib  it  the  same  as  a  rump  of  beef;  tie  it  up  tight : 
put  tlie  bones  and  trimmings  into  a  stew-pan  with  a 
pint  of  stock,  a  few  blades  of  mace,  three  or  four 
onions,  some  cellery,  a  carrot,  and  a  faggot  of  sweet 
herbs,  then  put  in  the  veal;  peel  a  lemon,  cut  it  ia 
slices,  and  put  it  over  the  veal,  put  sheets  of  bacon 
over  that,  and  paper  over  all:  set  it  on  a  slow  »tove 
to  simmer  for  two  hours,  take  it  up  and  glaze  it ;  put 
the  sorrel  sauce  on  the  dish,  and  then  the  veal. 

A  RAISED  PIE  WITH  PIGEONS. 

Raise  a  pie  that  will  hold  six  pigeons;  season  them 
inside  and  at  the  crop  with  pepper  and  salt,  chopped 
mushroomts,  parsley,  and  shalot;  put  beef  steaks  at 
the  bottom  of  the  pie,  and  then  the  pigeons;  cover  it 
in  and  ornament  it:  when  done  cut  the  top  off,  and 
put  in  eight  hard  egg^  and  a  ragout  of  sweetbread: 
put  the  top  on,  and  dish  it  on  a  napkin. 

A  SOUTIES  OF  VEAL,  AND  CUCUMBER. 

Cut  the  veal  from  the  fillet  in  the  shape  of  cutlets: 
butter  a  souties-pan  and  sprinkle  it  over  with  chopped 
mushrooms,  shalot,  parsley,  and  pepper  and  salt;  put 
the  veal  on  the  souCies-pan ;  then  peel  two  cucumbers^ 
\cut  them  in  quarters,  take  out  the  seed,  and  put  them 
\n  a  stew-pan,  with  a  bit  of  butter,  a  little  pepper  and 
salt,  and  a  few  spoonfuls  of  stock;  put  the  stew-pan  over 
ia  slow  fire  to  simmer  gentljr  until  quite  tender,  but  be 
careful  tliat  they  do  not  breaks  when  done  put  a  8uf« 
ficient  guaAtitj  of  sauee  Tourua^ ;  squeeze  a  lemon 


Ill 

and  put  a  few  drops  of  garlick  vinegar,  9nd  a  little 
dust  of  sugar:  a  few  minutes  before  dishing  time  put 
the  souties-pan  on  the  stove  and  finish  it:  put  the  veal 
round  the  dish,  and  the  sauce  in  the  middle;  scrape 
the  herbs  from  the  souties-pan  into  the  cucumber 
sauce. 

FRICASEE  OF  RABBIT. 
Follow  the  same  method  as  fricasee  of  chicken. 

PETIT  PATES  OF  OYSTERS. 

Put  the  oysters  on  to  blanch,  then  beard  them  and 
cut  each  oyster  in  four  pieces;  put  a  bit  of  butter  in  a 
stew-pan,  whtii  melted  put  as  much  flour  as  will  dry 
it  up ;  then  put  in  the  liquor  of  the  oysters  and  a  little 
cream ;  add  a  tew  drops  of  shalot  vinegar,  a  little  lemou 
j'uce,  pepper,  and  salt;  then  put  the  oysters  in,  make 
them  hot,  and  fill  the  patties:  dish  them  on  a  napkin* 

PETIT   PATJ&S  OF  CHICKEN  AND  HAM. 

Mince  the  breast  of  a  chicken  that  has  been  drest> 
and  as  much  ham  that  has  been  drest:  make  some 
beshemell  hot,  put  the  chicken  and  ham  in;  make  it 
hot  just  befire  wanted,  put  a  few  drops  of  shalot 
vi)ieg8r  and  a  little  pepper  and  salt,  squeeze  a  little 
lemon  juice  and  put  a  little  dust  of  sugar. 

PETIT  PATf;S  OF  SWEETBREAD. 

Mince  a  sweetbread  that  has  been  drest;  then  put 
a  bit  of  butter  into  a  stew  pan,  a  little  chopped 
parsley,  thyme,  shalot,  mushroom,  and  a  few  spoonfuls 
of  stock;  put  it  over  a  slow  stove  to  simmer  for  a  few 
minutes,  then  put  in  as  much  flour  as  will  dry  up  th^ 
butter,  add  a  little  stock  and  cream  ;  put  it  on  to  boil 
fur  a  few  minutes,  then  puf  in  the  sweetbread:  aJUittle 
htSore  waiUed  make  it  hot  and  fill  the  pattied. 


JANUARY  12,     No.  Ig,  BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Soup  and  Bouillie^ 

Removed  with  FISH, 

remov<*d  uUh  a 

CHINL  OF  MUTIOJC^. 
# 


A  Grenade. 


Two  Chickeni 
k  la  reine. 


A  Civet  of 
Hare. 


A  Fricandeau  of 

Fowl, 
and  f  orrel  sauce 


»  Chartreuse. 


Neck  of  Pork, 
roasted. 


A  Blanquet 
Fowl. 


\  Fillet  of  Be* 

iarded,  j^laze. 

and  Spanish 

onion  lauce. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Two  Easterlings* 


Ra«pberry 
Cream. 


P  ench  B  ans. 


orrant  Tourle. 


Jelly 
aa  Marbrc. 


Sea  Kail. 


Hauncli 
of 


Neck  of  Muttor 

larded,  and 
cucumber  vauce. 


i'i  fr't  'P  ^  I"  ▼ 
Frame  I 


Venison^j  t^.^^  J 


loin  of 
Veal  k  la 
beshemell. 


Blanquet  of 
^  Veal. 


Shoulder  of 
Lamb,  larded, 

glazed , 
md  sorrel  sauce. 


Fat  Livers  in 

(ases 


Asparagiis. 


Mince  Pies. 


Brocoli,  with 
brown  sailce. 


Fondues  in 
cases. 


Ribs  of 
Lamb. 


^    A  Ham^  braiser! 
J    iflazed,  and 
greens. 


A  Chartreuse. 


Two  Wood- 
cocks &  la  tartar. 


Two  Fowls, 

and    • 
cellery  sauce. 


I  Framed 


Fondues 
in  cases. 


Brocoli,  with 
white  sauce. 


A  Timball  of 

Macaroni  and 

Chicken. 


f^ermirtilt  Soup^ 

Removed  with  F1SH» 

removed  with  a 

SIRLOIN  OF  BEEF. 


Mince  Pies. 


Asparagus. 


Orange 
Jeliy. 


i^moked  Salmon 
incases. 


Sea 
KaiL 


Gooseberry 
Tourte. 


French  Beans 


(ederata 
Cream. 


Two-Pheasantij 
One  larded. 


113 

Jfo.  12,  BILL  OF  FARM. 

A  GRENADE- 

Sheet  a  mould  (the  same  size  as  the  cjbart^eiw 
mould)  with  thin  sheets  of  fat  bacon ;  ornament  t|ie 
bottom  and  sides  with  fancy  flowers  cut  out  of  turiaipy 
and  carrot,  then  roll  out  some  forced- meat  the  saipe 
fts  jou  would  paste;  cut  out  the  shape  of  the  bottom 
first,  then  lay  it  in,  and  then  cut  out'  the  sides;  egff  it 
well,  and  fill  it  up  with  any  kind  of  poultry  that  has 
been  left  from  the  last  dinner;  put  a  little  coulis  uij 
and  cover  it  in  with  paste,  e^g  it  well  over,  i^nd  press 
.  it  well  to  the  forced-meat;  put  the  mould  in  a  st^w 
pan,  and  as  much  water  as  will  come  halfway  up  tbo 
mould,  put  in  the  oven  for  one  hour;  turn  it  out  on 
the  dish  that  it  is  to  go  up  to  tfi^le  (m^  S.oaK  thi^  fat 
up  that  comes  from  t)ie  b9,jp()n^  i^kp  tfi^  ^acoii  o^/w4 
put  couljjs  Tpund  t^ie  di§)^  ■ »  ,  .  ^ 

WOODCOCKS  A  LA  TARflTAH. 

Chit  up  two  woodcocks  that  have  bee^n  roasted;  ^i 
'  the  win^s,  legs,'  Weast^  head,  and  train  into  a  st^iv'^ 
■  t)ab,  and  cov6r  it  over ;  thfeti  put  the  necks  ttnd  backs 
into  another  stew-pan,  with  a  f^w  shaltKs,  half  a  piht 
of  stock,  and  half  a  pint  of  red  wine,  (if  there  should 
be  any  odd  bits  of  snipes  put  them  in  the  stew-pan 
with  the  woodcocks,  as  they  will  help  the  flavour)  put 
it  over  the  stove,  boil  it  for  half  an  hour,  then  strain 
it  off  into  a  bason.  Put  a  small  piece  of  butter  into  a 
stew-pan,  when  melted  put  a  little  flour  to  dry  it  up^ 
then  add  the  li(|[uor  the  bones  of  the  woodcocks  and 
snipes  were  boiled  in,  put  it  on  the  stove  to  boil 
tot  a  few  minutes;  keep  stirring  while  on  the  fire; 
strain  it  throu|^h  a  sieve  into  the  stew-pan  that  has 
the  woodcocks  m;  set  it  by  the  side  of  the  stove  to  get 
hot,  but  not  to  boil  by  any  means;  put  a  little  cayenne 
pepper,  and  a  little  salt  if  wanted,  squeeze  in  a  little 
lemon  juice:  when  dished  up  garnish  with  croutons. 

N,  o.  The  head  of  the  woodcock  should  be  split^ 
and  the  )uU  takea  off. 


114 

BLANQUET  OF  VEAL. 

Cut  the  veal  from  the  fillet,  and  cut  it  in  rono^ 
pieces  about  the  size  of  a  crown-piece,  but  not  so . 
thick. — Veal  that  has  been  dressed  is  generally  made 
use  offer  a  blanquet :  finish  it  exactly  as  the  blanquel 
of  fowl. 

GOOSEBERRY  TART 

Is  made  at  this  season  of  the  year  with  bottled 
gooseberries.  Sheet  a  tart  pan  with  short  paste,  piit 
in  the  gooseberries  and  sugar,  but  no  water,  cover  it 
over,  brush  it  over  with  white  of  eggy  and  sift  sttgai 
over  it 

RIBS  OF  LAMB. 

Saw  the  chine  bone  off,  and  cut  the  chine  b6ne  from 
the  breast,  skin  it,  cut  the  scrag  off,  crack  the  ribi 
across  the  middle,  put  skewers  cross-wajs,  and  pal 
the  spit  \indeT  the  skewers ;  it  will  take  half  an  hour 
to  roast;  baste  it  with  butter  several  times;  just 
before  you  take  it  up,  baste,  flour,  and  salt  it;  put 
gravy  in  the  dish:  garnish ti^ith water-eresie^ :  Fesd 
mint  sauee  in  a  boat. 


JANUARY  IS.  No.  IS,  BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  (X)UHSE. 


SBCOxXD  COUttSK 


Flemish  Soup, 

Remored  with  FISH, 

remdved  T?ith  a 

HAUNCH  OF  VENISON. 


Poulard  4  la 
Duchesse. 


ro9st,,&  endive. 


FHlets  «f 
Whiiiogs. 


Two  boiled 

Fowls^  and 

oyster  sauce. 


Uarricoi  of 
MuttOQ. 

i'»  >»i  ■»     1 1  I  I 


Fillet  of  Veal 
k  U  Flamoiid. 


Mat«lot  of     { 
Tencb. 


Ox  Romps, 

and 
cabbajre. 


Woodcocks. 


CederataCream. 


Sea  Kail. 


Mince  Pies* 


A.  dressed  Ciab. 


A  Oanriel 
Basket  of  Pastry 


Cfiantilly  Cake. 


■••■•i.>*^ 


Cauliflower 
with  sauce. 


■•  ^«  •  m^rn^^^ 


Rice  Fritters, 


Anchovy  Toast 


A  Gum  Paste 
Basket  of  Pastry 


Soup, 
removed 

with  Fish, 
renoved 

tridiaHkto 
braised. 


4  Frame  4 


Soup, 

removed 

with  Fish, 

removed 

with  a 

Turkey  and 

Cbesnuts. 


ThreePartridges 
and  cabbage. 


Semells  of 
Carp. 


Stewed  Beef, 
^  and  roots. 


Carrie  of  Rabbit 
and  rice. 


Two  Chickens 
k  la  reine. 


▲  Soalies  of 
Soal. 


A  Roast 


Scorch 
Collops. 


Soup  Sante, 

Removed  with  FISH» 
removed  with  a 

CHINK  OF  Mnrrov. 


Two 
Otta  Birds. 


A  Gum  Paste 
Basket  of  Pastry 


Anchovy 
Toast. 


fdce  Fritters. 


Cauliflower. 


Cbantilly 
Basket. 


A  Carmel 
Basket  of  Pastry 


A  dressed 
Lobster,  cold. 


Mince  Pies. 


Sea  Kail. 


Jelly. 


Jl  Hare. 


^w 


«— h 


116 
No.  IS,  BILL  OF  FJRB. 

MATELOT  OF  TENCH. 

Scale  and  clean  the  tench,  and  put  them  into* 
Btew-pan,  ivith  about  a  pint  of  stock,  a  pint  of  port 
wine,  about  two  dozen  of  button  onions,  put  it  over 
the  stove  to  simmer  until  the  tench  is  done  ;  put  aboot 
half  a  pottle  of  mushrooms  into  a  stew-pan,  with  a  bit 
of  butter  and  a  little  pepper  and  salt.  Set  them  on 
the  stove  to  stew  gently  until  done,  then  add  them  to 
the  tench ;  then  blanch  and  beard  two  dozen  of  oysterS) 
then  put  about  two  ounces  of  butter  into  a  stew-pan 
with  tome  chopped  parsley,  thyme,  and  shalot,  lour 
anchovies,  a  few  spoonfuls  of  the  liquor  the  tench  weiv 
done  in ;  put  the  stew-pan  on  the  fire  to  boil  very  slof 
for  about  ten  minutes,  or  until  the  liquor  is  all  boiled 
Away,  but  not  so  as  to  let  it  catch  at  the  bottom  of  tlii 
Jtewopan.  Then  put  as  much  flour  as  will  dry  ^ 
the  butter,  then'  pour  ofl^  the  liquor  from  tjie  tenclf, 
and  put  it  in  the  stew-pan.  Pot  it  on  to  boirveiy 
f  slow  for  a  few  minutes,  keep  stirring  it  while  on  tii 

fire,  then  rub  it  through  the  tammy,  put  it  to  W 
tench,  and  put  the  oysters  in,  set  it  on  the  stove  tp  get 
.  hot,  but  not  boil.  Just  before  you  dish  it  squeeze  a 
little  lemon  juice  in  and  a  little  cayenne  pepper.  €rai» 
i^sh  wit^  croutons. 

FILLETS  OF  WHITING. 

I  Put  the  ^lets  into  boiling  water,  and  let  them  sim* 

mer  a  few  minutes,  then  take  them  up  and  lay  tbeo 

I  on  a  clean  cloth  to  dry  the  water  from  them,  put  them 

on  the  dish,  and  white  Italian  sauce  over  them.  G^ 

nish  either  with  paste  or  croutons. 

•  •  ,        - 

I  '  CHANTILLY  CAKE. 

i  Cut  a  piece  out  of  the  top  of  a  savoy  calce,  and  scoojl 

'  out  the  inside  with  a  spoon,  but  be  careful  not  to 

make  a  hole  through ;  put  it  on  the  dish  tliat  it  is  ^^ 


IIT 

h;  sent  to  table  on:  poiir  about  half  a  pint  of  Bherr^ 
wine  in  the  cake,  and  as  the  wine  soaks  out  take  it  up 
with  a  spoon  and  pour  it  on  the  edge,  so  as  it  if  ill 
run  down  the  side.  When  the  trine  is  all  soaked  up 
pour  custard  down  the  sides  and  some  in  the  cake,  hare 
some  almonds  blanched  and  cut  in  quarters,  lenffth« 
Ways;  stick  them  round  the  edge,  and  about  threa 
round  the  si^es ;  whip  some  cream  the  same  as  for  a 
trifle,  and  put  it  in  the  middle.  Garnish  with  orango 
pad  cut  in  long  stripes. 

RICE  FRITTERS. 

Boil  the  rice  in  milk,  put  a  little  cinnamon  and  the 

peel  of  a  lemon ;  sweeten  it  with  sifted  sugar,  when 

tberice  is  done  take  out  the  lemon  peel  and  cinnamon^. 

«tir  In  about  a  quarter  of  a  pound  qi  butter,  put  in  four 

eggs,  stir  it  over  the  fire  for  a  few  minutes,  put  in  a 

glass  of  brandyt  and  grate  a  little  nutmeg  in,  butter  a- 

dish,  and  then  spread  the  rice  on ;  when  quite  cold 

cut  it  out  with  a  paste  cutter  any  shape  you  think  pro-^ 

per,  have  bread  crumbled  ready^  and  three  eggs  beat 

well  up  in  a  bason^  put  the  fritters  in,  ^nd  take  thein 

ovt  with  a  spoon,  and  put  them  on  the  dish  that  ha) 

the  bread  crumbs.    Make  as  many  bread  crumbs  stick 

to  them  as  you  can,  they  must  be  done  twice  over ;  fry 

them  in  lard  of  a  very  nice  brown :  take  them  np  and 

ky  tliem  on  white  kitchen  paper,  sift  fine  sugar  over, 

and  bold  the  salamander  over  to  gl^ze  them. 

ANCttOVY  TOAST. 

Cut  some  slices  of  bread,  and  cut  out  as  mAnji  pieces 
asyou  want  witha  cutter,  of  whdt  dmpe  yq^r  mk^  di» 
rects,  firy  them  in  clarified  butter,^  of  a  nice  gold  co- 
lour ;  wash  a  quarter  of  a  pound'  of  anchovies,  bont 
them,  and  potmd  Half  of  them  in  the  mortar,  put'  in 
about  two  ouAces  of  buttet,  when  pounded  fine  nrii 
them  through  a  sieve,  cUt  the. other  anchovies  inquaiv 
tetv;  baiter  tlie  (otets  mth  tto  aAcbaiita  and  inrttiA 


118 

tlmt  was  rubbed  through  the  siere ;  cros8<^bor  'th^ 
/the  anchovy  toast  oyefi  put  them  on  the  dish,  and 
garnish  with  parsley. 

N.  B.  At  other  ti«es  put  parsley  at  the  bottom  of  a 
wax  basket^  and  put  in  the  anchovy  toast. 

A  DREST  CRAB>  HOT  OR  COLD. 

Pick  a  crab;  if  for  hot,   put   all   into    a   steW- 
pan  with  about  an   ounce  of  butter   and    a  littte 
anchovy  essence,  a  tea*spoonful  of  mustard,  two  table 
spoonfuls  of  oil,  the  same  of  vineg^ar,  one  of  elder 
vineg'ar,  one  of  Chilly  vinegar,  ahd  a  handful  of  bread 
drumbs;  mix  all  together  well  with  a  spoony  put  it 
all  into  the  shell,  put  bread  crumbs  over  it,  drop  some 
clarified   butter  over  it,  and  put  it  in  the  oven;  if 
the  oven  does  not  brown  it  sufficient  brown  it  with 
the  salamander.    If  for  cold,  pick  the  crab  and  put 
what  fish  is  in  the  inside  on  a  plate  by  itself,  and 
what  comes  from  the  claws  on  another  plate ;  add  to 
what  came  from  the  inside  of  the  crab  a  few  bread 
crumbs,  cayenne  nepper,  a  little  essence  of  anchoiiy) 
two  table  spoonfuls  of  vinegar,  a  little  clarified  butter^ 
and  a  spoonful  of  elder  vinegar;  mix  all  well  to* 
gether ;  clean  the  shell  well  out ;  put  the  drest  part 
of  the  crab  in  one  end  of  the  shell,  and  what  is  picked 
from  the  claws  in  the  other ;  the  spawn  of  the  crab 
should  be  pounded  in  a  mortar,  rubbed  through  a 
sieve,  and  put  over  the  crab  in  diamonds :  if  there  be 
no  spa\^n  in  the  crab,  the  spawn  of  lobster  will  do: 
put  parsley  neatly  picked  round  the  fish,  and  make  a 
ring  of  the  small  claws  to  go  round  the  dish,  and 
paraey  between  the  ring  and  the  shell, 

.     A  DREST  LOBSTER,  COLD  OR  HOT. 

Take  the  fish  from  the  tail  and  claws  as  whole  sf 
fKwsible,  split  the  tail ;  if  for  cold,  lay  th»  claws  and 
tail  on  a  dish,  then  make  the  sauce  as  follows.-^ 
Ismise  the  yolks  of  two  egga  that  have  been  boiltd 


119 

khl,  put  a  few  drops  of  water,  as  it  softens  the  yolks  | 
when  rubbed  quite  fine,  put  oil,  mustard,  vinegar,  a 
little  ancfaovj  essence,  cayenne  pepper,  and  shalot 
vinegar;  mix  all  well  together  and  put  it  over  tbe 
lobster  i  garnish  with  parstey.  If  th^  lobster  be  for 
hot,  bruise  the  spawn  in  the  mortar,  put  a  bit  of 
butter  to  it,  and  rub  it  through  a  sieve :  put  a  bit  of 
butter  into  a  stew-pan,  when  melted  put  a  little  flouf, 
stir  it  while  on  the  fire,  put  a  little  stock  and  the 
qiawn  of  the  lobster,  let  it  boil  for  a  few  minutes, 
then  put  in  the  lobster,  make  it  hot,  add  a  little 
anchovy,  a  glass  of  sherrjr  wine,  and  a  little  cayenne 
pepper:  difth  it  and  garnish  with  croutons. 


» 


r 


^ANUAflY  14.  No.  II,  BILL  OF  i?ARK. 


FIRST  course; 


SECON^D  COURSE- 


Vermicelli  Soup^ 

RemoTed  with  FISH» 

retnoved  with 

LOIN  ofVEAL^labeshemell. 


Tm  Wild  Didcfts. 


mtmmma 


Fillets  of  Tiu1>dt 
iritalieitne. 


T0|]g;ue  and 
spinach,  Hc^  . 


I^hejttant, 

stewed,  and 

cabba2;e. 


Neck  of  VenisoB 
and  roots. 


CutleU  of 
Salmon,^  and 
ca^er  sauce. 


Two  Boiled 

Fowls^  and 

ceilery  sauce. 

■  I*  ■  ■  I  ■  ■  ■  -■ 


Darioles. 


■'•  i<r' 


French  Beans. 


bheesecalQes. 


Beef  Olives, 

and  scooped 

fiotatoes. 


A  Fillet  of 

Mutton,  and 

harricot  beans. 


An  Onu*let 
S011M6. 


Mushrooms. 


«■  <■ 


J 


AChilctotte. 


Aspara^itt. 


Mince  Pica. 


l&CaronL 


Sea  Kail. 


SottpSante, 
remOTcd 

with  Fish, 
removed 

with  a  Leg 

of  Pork  h  \& 
boisseau. 


)  Frame ' 


JMock  Tur- 

tIe,removed 

with  Fish, 

removed 

with  a 

Rump  of 

Beef  4  la 

Mantua. 


Lamb*s  Head 
k  la  Royal. 


Beef  Olives,' 

with  scooped 

potatoes. 


Two  Fowls, 

and 
oyster  sauce. 


Four  Red 

Mullets. 


Breast  of  Veal, 
ragoik'd. 


Cbipolate  of 
Rabbit. 


Sttipei^ 


^Framef 


I 

Si 


tarks. 


SeaKaiL 


»" 


Macaroni. 


Tottj^ue, 
glased,  &c. 


Matelot  of 
EeU. 


Mince  Pies. 


Asparagus. 


Mock  Turtle, 

Removed  with  FISH, 

removed  with  a 

CHINE    OF   MUTTON. 


•  Ratafla 
Pudding. 


Broiied 
Mnsbrooma* 


Poached  Egf 

and 
piquant  taooe. 


Itarioka. 


Four  Partridgtt. 


121 

No.  14,  BILL  OF  FARE, 

CUTLETS  QF  SALMON,  AND  CAP: 

SAUCE. 

Split  a  middle  piece  of  salmou,  take  the  skin  off, 
ind  cut  the  salmon  into  cutlets :  put  some  butter  into  a 
stew-pan,  with  a  few  chopped  mushroon>8,  shalot^ 
thyme,  parsley,  and  a  little  pepper  and  salt ;  put  it  on 
the  stove  to  melt  the  butter ;  when  melted  take  it  off 
Ae  fire,  put  it  to  get  half  cold;  in  the  mean  time  put 
^me  clarified  butter  on  a  aouties-pan,  dip  the  salmon 
m  the  butter  and  herbs,  and  then  in  bread  crumbs, 
j^ut  them  on  the  sou  ties-pan,  and  finish  the  same  aift 
any  other  cutlets :  put  a  few  French  capers  into  a 
Mlew-pan,  a  little  good  coulis,  a  few  drops  of  anchovj 
4s6ence,  squeeze  half  a  lemon,  and  put  in  a  little 
(^yenue  pepper. 

f   FILLETS  OF  TURBOT,  WITH  SAUCE 

'^         .  A  LJITALIENNE. 

\  Cut  the  remainder  of  a  Iturbot  that  hds  been  left 
from  a  former  dinner,  intb  fillets,  (or  rather  like 
collops)  put  it  round  the  dish  cold,  rcover  it  up  and 
pit  it  in  the  pyen  about  a  quarter  of  an  hour  before 
mnted  ;  make^the,  sauce  h^t,  put  a  few  drops  of  an- 
cho^  essence,  pqueeze  a  li^le  lemon  juice,  and  put 
a  little  dust  of  gjug^r :  put  some  sauco  over  the  turbot 
aod  the  rest  in  the  middle  :  garnish  with  croutons. 

BfEF  OLIVES,  AND  SCOOPED  POTATOES. 

iThe  potatoes  should  be  i  scooped  with  a  turnip 
scbcp^sand  firied  of  a,  nice  beown,  in  clarified  butter; 
have  sonae  hot  sauce,  and  ]^t  the  potatoes  in  about 
fiye  »inuies  before  dishin|;  time:  put  the  olives 
ro^nd^the  disband  the  potatoes  in  the  miiidle.  For 
olltres  see  page  75. 

%■■■ ' "*  - '  •^- 


122 

A  CHARLOTTE* 

Butter  the  mould  very  well,  and  line  it  with  brend 
cut  thin,  and  about  two  inches  wide,  and  in  length 
according  to  the  depth  of  the  mould  :  cut  a  piV^ce 
the  same  size  as  the  bottom,  dip  it  in  clarified  butter^ 
and  put  it  in  the  bottom,  then  line  the  sides— dip  each 
piece  in  clarified  butter,  put  each  piece  halt*  over  the 
other,  fill  the  moulds  with  apples  that  hare  jbeen 
stewed,  but  not  so  low  as  for  a  marmalade ;  they  should 
be  rubbed  through  a  sieve;  then  cut  a  piece  of  paste 
the  size  of  the  top  of  the  mould,  cover  it  cfvety  and 
brush  i%  well  over  with  egg  t  bake  it  of  a  nice  btown« 

POACHED  EGG^  AND  PIQUANT  SAUpE. 

Put  a  little  salt  aqd  vinegar  in  the  water  tfa4t  joa 
are  to  poach  the  eggs  in ;  when  the  water  boils  oreak 
the  eggs  in^l  cover  th^m  over,  and  set  them  by  tlja  side 
,  of  the  8tove»  but  thejf  must  not  boil ;  when  done  take 
them  up  with  a  small;  sliee^  trim  the  ragged  partiof  the 
white  off,  put  themjJDn  the  didh^  ana  the  sauc|e  over 
them :  garnish  with  j6routons.  j 

N.  B.  Be  particular  that  the  egga  ifor  poaching  be 
^uite  aew^. .  •         ^  'i  '  ' 


•toi 


JANUARY  15.  No.  15,  BILL  OF  FAT?E. 


FIRST  COURSE. 

Soup  a  la  Reine^ 

RemoTed  with  FISH, 

renoTed  with  a 

HAUNCH  OF  VENISON. 


^taa*« 


SECOND  COCR^Ji. 
Pariridge9. 


Blanc  Mange. 


bwcrtbrraiis, 

larded,  $;la«ed« 

and  sorrel  saace. 


rillcU  of  Fowl, 
larded,  f^ased, 
and  an  Kmioce, 


Croketf. 


•«*Ai 


Two  Necks  of 

Lamb  a  la 
cbevaixdefrist 


Sotttietfiflita«rU 


Petit  P&t^s. 

■■■■■,    ^. 


Pitbi  au  Gratia. 


Mince  Pies. 


HaoH 

bnisedy  &c. 


Sooticf  of  Hare, 


ftoap^Taiiai 

lemoved 

with  Fish, 

removed  ItFrane:: 
^ifitHaPfc[t+,-H^;: 
a  la 

Fraofois. 


[So«p4nliai 

t'***^*t  t^ithFish, 


fedMHred 

with  a 

Macavonl 

Pie. 


Pea3,  stewed. 


Gum  Riste 

Basket  of  Pastry 


Jelly  an  Marbr^ 


Ham  and  Toast 


Apricot  Tourte. 


Asparagus. 


Wax  Basket 
•f  Prawns. 


rr^mi 


■m 


Pheaiafit. 


A  Sontiffe  of 
Pheasant. 


Rllet  of  Veal 
^  li  beshemel). 


Peat  PAtcsJ 


-^ 


A  Sonties  of 
Rabbiti. 


;:Fnune| 


- 


Woodcoc 


. 


Chipe  of 
Mntton. 


Risolef. 


Grenadl^eS| 

glazed, 
and  ea(ii?e. 


Lambs'  SweeU 

breads,  larded  ^ 

glazed,  and 

:Mpmg«9£^i8. 

'^'      '  St>^'Crehe^, 

JteUM^edl  W?^  FISH, 
removed  with 
ROAST  BEEF. 


Wax  Basket  of 
Cray-isfe. 

i».i»"  ■■ ■ 


Frenck  Beans. 


Orange  Tourte. 


Ham  and 
Pbacked  Eggs. 


OratTge  Jelly. 


Gum  Paste 
Baskiefof  Pastry 


Spinach,  with 
croutons. 


Mince  Pies. 


Salsifie,  fried  in 
batter. 


Rhenish  Cream. 


A  Hare. 


Q  S 


»i  11  ■ 


m 

no.  15,  BILL  t)F  FAR£. 

J'lLLETS  OF  FOWLj  LARDED,  AND  AN 

EMINCE. 

Lard  the  fillets^  dnd  finish  as  before  mentioned  in 
|>age  10 1 ;  instead  of  Tomata^  sauce  put  an  eminctt,  the 
same  as  for  patties'^ 

SWEETBREADS,  LARDED. 

Latd  two  large  heart  sweetbrefcids,  put  them  in  a 
)it~ow-pan  of  water  to  blanch,  then  put  a  tew  triramrnga 
of  any  meat  that  is  convenient  into  a  steW-pan,  and 
about  a  pint  of  stock ;  lay  sheets  of  bacon  over  them^ 
and  finish  as  all  other  lardings. 

LAMB'S  HEART  SWEETBREADS 
Are  done  the  same  as  calves^  sweetbreads. 

GRENADINES  AJSTD  ENDIVE. 

Grenadines  are  Cut  iti  the  sh^pe  of  a  cutlet,  only 
thicker,  and  finished  the  saiu6  iis  a  iVicandeau ;  lay 
them  round  the  dish^  and  the  sauce  in  the  middle* 

MACARONI  PIE. 

Raise  a  pie,  fill  it  with  bran,  and  ornament  it;  wtieli 
baked,  take  the  bran  clean  out^  fill  the  pie  with  roa-^ 
^carohi,  prepared  the  same  waj^  as  foi^  a  second  course 
dish*  put  grated  parmasan  cheese  over  the  macaroni^ 
but  not  brown  it ;  send  no  covei*  on  the  pie4  and  be 
careful  not  to  have  the  macaroni  thin:  the  , sauce 
should  hang  to  the  macaroni  wheu  taken  up  with  fei 
spoon. 

FILLET  OF  VEAL  A  LA  fifeSHEMELL 

tf  there  be  a  cold  fillet  of  Veal  It  Will  answer  the 
purpose  tfi^  totne  as  if  roasted  for  the  purpose,  cut  thfe 
middle  ou^  and  finish  in  evei^  respect  the  sitme  as 
a  loin. 


125 

PETIT  PAT£s  of  mutton. 

Fill  the  p&t^8  with  minced  mutton  done  as  follows. 
Take  the  fillet  from  the  under  part  of  a  cold  chine  of 
mutton,  if  there  be  one  in  the  larder,  if  not  s^ny  other 
joint  wiii  do;  put  the  mince  iato  some  hot  couli^, 
season  it  with  a  little  ealt  and  pepper,  squeeze  a  little 
lemon  juice  in,  and  a  few  drops  of  shalot  Tinegar. 

HAM  AND  POACHED  EGOS. 

Mince  about  half  a  pound  of  lean  ham  that  has 
been  dressed,  and  put  it  into  hot  coujis ;  put  the  mince 
on  the  diflh  and  the  eggs  on  the  mince ;  gmoisU 
with  paste. 


&3 


JANUARY  16.  No.  16,  BILL  OF  FARE. 


FlRSr  COURSE. 

Soup  Cres$ey^ 

Removed  wtth  FISH, 

removed  with  a 

TURKEY  ANU  CHESNXm. 

A  R^sed  Pie 

with  Mutton, 

and  potatoes. 


Neck. 3  f  Mutton 

braised,  and 

tomata 

lance. 


An  Emince  of 
Mutton,  and 
cucumbers. 

A  Tongue, 

glazed,  and 

turnips. 


A  Chartreuse. 


Stewed  Beef 
and  roots. 


SECOND  COURSE, 


Wild  Duckf, 


Cr^meduCfcffc 

in  cops  of 

almond  paste. 


French  Beans. 


A  Civet  of  Hare 


Two  boiled 

Fowls,  and 

ccllery  snuce. 


Spanisb^Fritters. 


Soup, 

removed 

with  Fish, 

removed 

,  with  a 

Bacon 

Chine  boiPd 

&  Greens. 


t 

t  Frame : : 

t 


Soup, 

removed 
with  frish, 

removed 
with  a  Leg 

of  Lamb, 
boiled,Loin 

fried,  &c. 


Poached  Rgss, 
and  beshemell. 


Fondues,  in 

c-'.se*.     * 


Con;p040 
Pears. 


Asparagus. 


Apple  Fritters.. 


Truffles, 
in  a  Napkin. 


RagoAt  Melle. 


Two  Dncks 

&la 

daube. 


/£  Salmie  of 
Woodcocks. 


Two  Ox  Cheeks 

with 

sauce  hachit. 


I A  N«ck.of  Pork 
braised,  glazed, 
and  rober  sauce, 


A  Timball  of 

Macaroni  and 

chicken. 


Breast  of 

Veal 

k  ritalienne. 


RagoAt  MelU. 


Truflles, 
in  a  Napkin. 


Raised  Pie, 

with 
beef  steaks. 


A  Tureen  of  Hod^ePodge^ 

Removed  with  FISH, 

removed  with  a 

CHINE  OF  MUTTOW. 


Apple 
Fritters. 


Fondues,  in 
cases. 


Poached  Eggs , 
and  beshemell. 


Spanish 
Fritters. 


Asparagus. 


Compote  of 
[Golden  Pippins. 


French  Beans. 


Coffee  CrcfUB, 

I     in  copb  of 
almond  paste. 


L 


Two  Pheasanii* 


187 
No.  IjS,   bill  of  fare. 

BEEF  COLLOPS. 

The  collops  should  be  cut  from  the  inside  fillet  of 
the  ruflip,  cut  them  about  the  same  size  as  veal  collops, 
fl^t  them  and  lay  them  on  a  touties-pan  that  has  been 
buttered  and  sprinkled  with  shalot,  parsiejr,  mush- 
room.^, thyme,  and  a  little  basii,  put  them  on  the  stove 
just  to  warm  through,  turn  them,  have  some  coulis  in 
a  stew-pan,  make  it  quite  hot,  then  put  in  the  coUopf:, 
aad  siTrape  the  herbs  from  the  souties-pan  into  the  col- 
lops ;  and  a  glass  of  Madeira  wine  and  a  little  cayenne 
pepper  and  a  little  salt  if  wanted. 

SALMIE  OF  WOODCOCKS. 

Is  done  the  same  as  a  la  tartar,  the  salmie  is  done 
in  a  silver  dish  and  cov^r,  and  niade  hot  with  a  larrp 
which  belongs  to  the  dish  for  the  purpose ;  make  the 
sauce  the  same  as  before  mentioned ;  put  the  wood- 
cock in  the  dish  while  cold,  and  the  sauce  over  it ; 
light  the  lamp  about  five  minutes  before  t^he  dinner 
leaves  the  kitphen;  the  lamp  should  not  go  to  the 
table,  as  there  is  generally  rosers  for  the  made  dishes, 

BREAST  OF  VEAL  A  L'lTALlENNE. 

Braise  a  breast  of  veal  till  quite  tender,  when  done 
take  it  up  and  laj  it  on  a  cloth  to  dry  the  fiit,  pull  the 
bones  out,  put  it  on  the  dish  and  pour  sauce  over  it, 
the  sauce  should  consist  of  coulis,  sliced  truffles,  a  few 
sliced  girkins,  a  few  mushrooms,  and  a  glass  of  Ma- 
deira :  squeeze  half  a  lemon  in  the  sauce. 

HODGE  PODGE 

Is  made  as  follows,  bone  a  fowl  and  cut  it  in  quar- 
ters ;  cut  four  thick  steaks  from  a  loin  of  mutton,  cut 
about  a  pound  of  brisket  of  beef  that  has  been  stewed 
in  small  square  pieces,  about  a  pound  of  the  brisket 
part  of  a  brcfast  of  veal  cut  the  same  size  as  the  muttom. 

a  4 


128 

steaks,  ahoiit  lialf  a  pound,  of  lean  ham  eut  the  sain« 
Rize  as  the  veal ;  put  the  ham  in  the  bottom  of  a  small 
Foup-pot  that  will  hold  about  four  quarts,  first  put  in 
about  half  a  pint  of  water,  then  the  ham,  the  veal  and 
mutton,  then  the  fowl  and  the  beef  at  the  top,  then 
put  the  cover  oh,  and  set  it  over  a  slow  stove  to  sim- 
mer gently  until  the  water  is  boiled  away,  then  take  it 
•off,  scoop  turnips,  carrots,  and  peel  half  a  pint  of  but- 
ton onions,  and  three  heads  of  cellery  cut  in  pieces 
«bouthalfan  inch  long,  put  the  carroty  in  a  stew-pan 
first,  with  half  a  pint  of  stock,  put  it  on  the  stove  to 
boil,  until  the  carrots  are  boiled  nearly  enough,  then 
put  in  the  onions,  turnips  and  cellery,  and  Jet  them 
boil  pently  until  quite  tender :  then  put  them  to 
the  hodge  podge,  and  fill  it  up  with  the  best  stock, 
l^ut  the  soup-pot  on  the  fire,  keep  skimming  it  until 
it  boils,  then  set  it  by  the  side  of  the  stove  to  sim« 
mer  until  the  meat  is  quite  tender. 

APPLE  FRITTERS. 

Peel  the  apples  and  cut  them  in  thick  slices,  take  oat 
the  core  and  put  them  into  white  wine  and  sugar  to 
soak  for  two  hours,  boil  as  much  milk  as  will  be  want- 
ed, put  cinnamon  and  the  rind  of  a  lemon ;  let  it 
boil  for  a  quarter  of  an  tmur ;  put  it  to  cool,  when  cold 
make  batter  with  it  and  the  wine  that  the  apples  were 
soaked  in ;  put  a  sufficient  quantity  of  lard  to  fry  them 
in  a  stew-pan;  when  hot  put  them  in  one  piece  at  a  time ; 
when  of  a  nice  brown,  take  them  out  and  put  them 
on  paper  to  soak  the  fat  from  them ;  sift  sugar  over 
them  and  hold  a  salamander  over  them  until  the 
sugar  is  melted  :  dish  them  on  a  napkin. 

SPANISH  FRITTERS. 

Grate  two  lemons  and  put  it  into  a  stew-pan  with  a 
little  white  <vine,  a  bit  of  cinnamon  and  four  or  five 
cloves  :  set  the  stew-pan  on  the  fire  to  boil  for  a  few 
minutes ;  then  take  out  the  cinnamon  and  cloves,  and 
put  in  about  two  ounces  of  butter  into  a  stew-pan^  whra 


•       * 


129 

aneVted  put  in  fvhat  the  opice  and  grated  lemoi?. 
!vere  boiled  in  ;  put  it  on  to  boil  a  few  minutes^  then 
put  in  about  three  table-spoohtul^;  of  flour,  and  one  of 
sifted  sugar,  keep  stirring  it  up  for  a  few  minutes  while 
on  the  fire  ;  take  it  off  and  break  four  eggs,  one  at  a 
time:  keep  beating  it  up  until  all  the  eggs  are  in  :  thea 
beat  it  up  until  it  is  quite  smooth;  put  in  a  glabS  of 
brandy ;  have  some  hot  lard  in  a  stew- pan,  and  drop 
the  batter  in  with  a  tea-spoon  ;  when  of  a  nice  brown 
taketiiem  up  and  lay  them  on  the  back  of  a  sieve,  an(| 
afterwar/i&on  paper:  si(t  sugar  over  them,  and  hold  a 
salamander  over  to  glaze  them  :  put  a  napkin  on  the* 
iishy  then  the  fritters. 

COFFEE  CREAM  IN  ALMOND  CUPS. 
The  cups  are  made  of  almood  paste. 


,  f. 


Ji 


*  ■  '»•««•  I  d 


P5 


JANUARY  17.  No.  17,  BILL  OF  PARE. 


«■   'iHtf 


FIRST    COURSE,       I 

Rice  Soupx 

RemoTcd  with  FISH, 

removed  with 

A  HATJNCH  of  VENISON. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


■-^^ 


n«»" 


fVoddcdcks* 


- 


Mitleflcttr. 


Lt^Dtb  Outlets 

and 
Tomata  sauce. 


ITwo  Ducks  a  la 
r^aube  &lurDips. 


Petit  P&t^s. 


^SaiH|iietof 
,     Fowl,  and 
mushroomi 


Turkey  and 
oyster  sauce. 


Livers  of  Potil* 
try  -k  la  Brock. 


^pple  Pie,  with 
custard. 


Neck  of  Venison  1 

stewedifif  jroots.l 

H  ^ 


W     ■    1         'I     « 


Fricasee  of 
'  Chicken. 

-: .: i 


9MWf  €^fce« 


HaA9|id  Toam 


Fmach- B«ini. 


Iklince  Piet. 


Leg  of  Pork  a 
Ja  bolss^au. 


S  up,  re- 
QiOTcd  with 

Fish,  re- 

imoTed  with 

a  Rump  «f 

Beef  k  la 

4attb  au 
choux. 


^  Frame  ^ 


Baskef  of  Pastry 


Asppumc^W. 


Wax  Basket  of 
Prawns. 


Soup, 

removed 

with  Fish, 

removed 

with  a 

Ham  ^lazM' 

&c.  &c. 


Loin  of  Ve&l  2i 
la  beshejoaeH. 


Fricasee  of 
Rabbit  and 

Onions. 


A  Fillet  of 

Mutton,  and 

harricot  beans. 


Lefi^of  Lamb 

boiled,  and 

Spinach. 


PedtP&teeof 
Oysters.        | 


White  Collops. 


Wax  basket  of 
Cray  Fish. 


Asparagus. 


Partridges 
aueheaz. 


Semellsand 
sance  piquant. 


Mince  Pie. 


Hun  &  Toast. 


Basket  of  Pastrv 


Fvench 


Mock  Turtle^ 
Removed  with  Fl&il» 

removed  with 
RIBH  OF  BEEF. 


A  Savoy  Cake. 


\pp1e  Pie^  irith 
Ca^tani. 


Livers  of  PoaU 
try  ilia  Brock. 


oateaQMilefleaf 


A  Hart* 


j^mmmmm 


~>'~rm:i7^..  BILL  OF  FARE. 

.    RICETSOUP. 

Boil  half  a  pound  of  rice  in  good  stock,  when  quite 
teader  rub  it  through  the  tammy,  and  put  it  into  % 
small  soup-pot,  add  as  much  stock  as  will  make  the 
-qtiantity  wanted;  put  a  laispn  of  four  eggs  ai^d  half 
a  piiU  of  cream. 

N.  B.  Leave  one-fourth  of  the  rice  that  is  boiled  to 
put  in  the  soup  without  being  rubbed  through  the 
tammy. 

LAMB  CUTLETS  AND  TOMATA  SAUCE. 

Cut  a  neck  of  lamb  into  cutlets,  trim  them  very  neat, 
scrape  the  meat  from  thje  bone,  put  about  three  ounces 
of  butter  into  a  stew-pan  with  qhopped  shalot,  parsley, 
thyme,  mushroom,  and  a  little  pepper  and  salt;  put 
the  butter  on  the  fire,  witen  melted  take  it  off  and  let 
it  stand  till  it  begins  to.  get  thick,  put  some  clarified 
butter  on  a  souties^pan,.  then  dip  the  cutlets  in  the^ 
butter  and  herbs,,  and  then  roll  them  in  bread  crumbs,. 
I|iy  them  on  the  souties-pan  and  put  them  over  the  fire, 
let  them,  be  a  nice  brown  before  they  are  turned : 
when  they  are  brown  on  both  sides  take  them  off  the 
fire  and  lay  them  on  a  clean  cloth  tp  soak  the  butter 
from  them ;  lay  them  round  the  dit»h,  and  put  the.  sauce 
ki  the  middle. 

LIVERS  OF  POULTRY  X  LA  BROCH. 

Scald  the  livers,  then  trim  the  ragged  part  off,  put 
tiiemonasmall  round  skewer,  tie  them,  on  the  spit, 
put  a  slice  of  fat  liam  on  each  liver,  before  they  arc  put 
on  the  skewer;  a  few  minutes  will  do  them;  let  the 
fiitof  the  ham  be  brown:  when  ready  put  the  livers 
Uound  the  disb^  and  firied  bread  crumbs  in  the  middii?* 


•  Q, 


JANUARY  18,  No.  18^  BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIKST  COURSE. 


Sottp^ 
Removed  wUliFISH, 

removed  with  a 
LOIN  OF  VEAL. 


i*ork  Chops,* 

and  /mashed 

potatoes. 


;  Two  Rabbits, 
and  onions. 


Ihree  Swrct- 
breads,  larded, 
and  an  Lmince. 


Stewed  Beef, 
and  roots. 


Tenderones  of 

Veal, 
and  Truffle 5. 


Two  CbiekeiTB 
k  la  reine. 


Lamb  Cutlets, 

larded,  glazed, 

and  the  bren»t 

rclL'd,  and 

mushrooms. 


SECOND  COURSE, 


Two  Pheasants,  one  larded. 


Orange  Jelly. 


Rasroiit  Melle. 


Spinach  and 
poached  ep gs. 


Orange  Tourte. 


A  Tonsrue, 

glized, 

and  spinaeh. 


Srup, 
*  rf  moved 
with  Fish, 
removed 
with  a 
Til  rite  V  r.nd 
ivhesfiwts. 


^Frame^ 


Soup, 

removed 

with  Fish, 

removed 

with  a 
Sucking 

Pig. 


A 

C'lire  of 
L'imb. 


|A  Fillet  oflJeef, 
I    laried,  and 
[^ Spanish  onions 


r Two  Chickens 
k  \n  reine. 


Scorch  CollopF. 


A  Ruulard  of 

Vi  al,  and 
Tomata  sauce. 


A  Fricandeau, 

and 
sorrel  sauce. 


Two  Rabbits, 
and  ontoos. 


Beef  Palates, 
I  and 

sane  Rcstmref, 


Removed  with  FI.^^II, 

removed  with  a 

CTTINK  OK    MUTTON. 


Smoked  S:ilmon, 
in  eases. 


Carmel  Eiasket 
with  Piisiry. 


Mushrooms. 


Mince  Pics. 


Fondues,  in 
cases. 


Two 
Dun  Birds, 


k  l'>ame  ^ 


Plovers. 


Fondues,  in 
cases. 


Mince  Pies. 


Asparagus. 


Mushronms. 


(  armel  Basket, 
wit.i  Merin'Oi's. 


<(nokeiS:ilmon 
in  eases. 


\pricot  Tourte 


Spinach  ani 
poached  etrcs 


Ragodt  Melld. 


Jelly 
au  M..rbr6     » 


li^oodcvcks. 


133 
No.  18,  BILL  OF  FARE. 

PORK  CHOPS,  AND  MASHED  POTATOES. 

Cut  the  cliops  either  from  the  neck  or  loin;  if  the 
neck,  scrape  the  bone  and  cut  the  rind  and  part  of 
the  fat  off^  pat  them  on  the  gi  Idiron,  season  them 
with  pepper  and  salt  on  both  sides  :  put  the  mashed 
potatoes  on  the  dish,  .and  the  chops  round  the  dish. 

LAMB  CUTLETS   LARDED,  AND  THE 

BREAST  ROLLED. 
Lard  eight  cutlets,  (they  should  be  cut  nearly 
twice  as  thick  as  cutlet<$  done  with  bread  crumbs) 
Bone  and  skin  a  breast  of  lamb,  beat  it  with  the 
flatter,  brush  it  over  with  egg,  sprinkle  a  little  pepper 
and  salt,  then  spread  some  good  forced-meat  over  it, 
roll  it  up  and  sew  it  with  packthread  :  put  the  bones 
and  the  trimming  from  the  cutlets  into  a  stew-pan 
with  about  a  pint  of  stock,  put  the  lamb  in,  cover  it 
over  with  fat  bacon,  set  it  over  the  stove  for  an  hour 
to  simmer  i»en(ly  ;  then  lay  the  cutlets  in,  cover  them 
with  bacon,  ttieii  put  them  over  the  stove  to  simmer 
gently  till  you  think  they  j^re  done,  then  take  them  out 
and  lay  tliem  on  a  dish,  put  them  in  the  oven  for  a  few 
minutes,  then  glaze  them  and  the  breast :  put  the  mush- 
rooms on  the  dish,  the  breast  of  lamb  in  the  middle, 
and  the  cutlets  round :  garnish  with  paste  or  croutons.. 

SWEETBREADS,  LAUDED,  and  an  EMLVCE. 

J^ard  the  s\veetl>reads,  and  blanch  them  off:  put 
the  trimmings  of  any  kind  of  meat  that  is  convenient, 
into  a  stew  pan,  with  about  a  pint  of  stock,  two 
onion«;,  and  a  faggot  of  thyme  and  parsley,  with  a  few 
blades  of  mace  tied  up  in  it ;  lay  fat  bacon  over  the 
meat^then  put  in  the  sweetbreads,  and  cover  them 
over  with  sheets  of  bacon  and  paper;  set  them  ovet 
th«'  stove  ;  when  they  have  been  on  about  a  quarter 
of  an  hour  put  a  little  lighted  charcoal  on  the  lid  of  • 
the  slew-pa ii,  let  t-»em  simmer  gently  for  a  quarter  of 
Aa  hour  lunger  :  finish  them  as  all  other  lardings. 


JANUARY  I9th,  No.  19,  BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 

Sotip  a  lu  Flamondy 
RenKwed  with  JFISH, 
remoTed  widi  a 
'Leg  of  Lamb,  boiled.  Loin  fried. 


Crokets. 


Ox  Cheeks, 

with 
sauce  hachis. 


White  Collops 

and 
Mushrooms. 


Casserole  au 

Ris,  with 

giblets. 


Boiled  Turkey 

and 
oyster  sauce. 


Petit  PAtes. 


A  Neck  of  Pork 
braised,  glazed, 
and  rober  sauce. 


A  Souties  of 

Mutton, 

and  cucumbers, 


Chartreuse. 


A  Ham 

and 
spinach. 


A  Raised 

Pie  a  la 

Fnui^oii. 


% 


!  Frame  \ 


A  Raised 

Pie,  With 

\  I   Pigeons. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


mm 


T»o  Wild  Ducks. 


A  Currant 
Tourte. 


French  Beans. 


Cbeesecal^s. 


Poached  £ggs 

and 
brown  sauce. 


Cauliflower. 


Orange  Jelly. 


Apple  Pie, 
with  custard. 


Asparagus. 


Mioce  Pies. 


Ragout  Me]16. 


Sea  Kail. 


Rhenish  Cream. 


Ploven. 


tFrame  J 


Bac^  Chine 

and 

greens. 


A  Souties  of. 
Hare. 


Breast  of  Ve?l, 
braised,  glazed 
and  Italian  sauce 


A 

Chartreuse. 

U.I   <    . 


Two  boiled 

Fowls  and 

cellery  sauce. 


■ 


A 

Grenade. 


PcUtPAtAa.   I 


Fillets  of  Sole 
k  ritalienne. 


Stewed  Beef 

and 

harricot  sauce. 


Risoles. 


U-* 


Mock  Turiie, 
Removed  with  FISH, 

removed  with  a 
SIRLOIN  OF  BEEF., 


jCederataCream. 


Mushrooms. 


Ragoiit  Melld. 


Minccf  Pies. 


Asparagus. 


Apple  Pie, 
withcieom. 


Orange  Souffle. 


Cauliflower 
4  la  Flamood. 


Poached  Eggs, 
with  saiN!e. 


Cheesecakes. 


French' 


Clirfant 
Toorte. 


<! 


Hare. 


■I  t 


^^wa 


4 


No.  19,  BILL  OF  FARE. 

CASSEROLE  AU  RIS,  WITH  GIBLET*. 

Boil  balf  a  pound  of  Garolina  rice  in  brolli  until 
it  becomes  quite  stiff,  then  butter  the  mould  intended 
for  it;  when  the  rice  is  quite  cold  line  the  mould 
with  rice  about  half  an  inch  thick,  and  brush  it  well 
over  with  e^g,  then  put  in  the  ^blets,  (thev  should 
be  stewed  first  in  best  stock  until  quite  tender;  puljk 
all  the  bones  from  the  pinions  and  feet)  whenquit^ 
cold  put  them  in  the  mould,  cut  the  g^izzards  in  sfices^ 
reduce  the  stock  the  giblets  were  stewed  intoaglaze^ 
then  put  a  few  spoonfuis  of  coulis  to  it,  and  stir  it 
round  with  a  spoon ;  when  cold  put  it  to  the  giblets, 
cover  the  mould  over  with  paste  and  put  it  in  the 
oven  for  an  hour ;  turn  it  out  a  fi^w  minutes  before* 
wanted,  and  put  a  little  coulis  round  the  casserole 
when  on  the  dish. 

CAULIFLOWER  A  LA  FLAMOND. 

Boij  the  cauliflower:  when  done  take  it  up  and  laj 
it  on  the  back  of  a  sieve  to  drain  all  the  water  from 
it,  then  put  it  into  a  ^tew-pan  with  a  little  beshemetl; 
when  qui|e  hot  dish  it  up,  put  parmasan  chee^e^tbea 
brown  it  with  a  salamander. 

GHANGE  SOUFFLfi 

Is  orange  ielly ;  (it  does  not  require  to  be  quite  lo 
stiff  as  at  other  times)  put  it  into  a  pan  and  whisk  it 
ap  until  aearlj  stiff,  then  put  it  in  the  mould :  when 
wanted  turn  it  out,  annd  (^aruji^b  with  sUces  of  Chi^ 


JANUARY  20,  No.  20,  BILL  OF  FARK 


FIRST  COURSE, 


Soup  a  la  Reine, 

RemoTPd  with  FISH, 

remoTed  wtth  a 

FILLET  of  V     \L  a  »aBeshemell. 


Volevent  of 


A  Capon,  with 

ragout'  and 

truffli'i. 


Pork  Chops, 
'  and 
mashed  potatoes 


Ox  Rumps, 

glazed,  and 

SpaiHsh  sauce. 


Petit  pates  of 
oysters. 


A  9parerib. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Grouse, 


Basket  of 
Pa&try. 


Brocoli. 


Calve*8  Head, 

bashed  and 

grilled. 


Wodcocks 
k  la  tartar. 


SoupSint6, 

fcraov^'d 

with  Fish 

removed 

with  a 

Soeking 

Pi£. 


;  Frame 


t 


t 


SoupCressy 
jre  moved 

with  Fi>h, 

removed 

with  a 

Haunch  of 
Venison. 


A  Sdlmie  of 
Wild  Ducks. 


Stewed   Beef, 

glazed,  and 

tomata  sauce. 


Le^;  of  Lamb, 
roasted. 


Lobster 

pates. 


Three  Par.trid5es 

stewed, 

and  c^bbige. 


A  Harricot  of 
Mutton. 


A  Turkey, 
roasted. 


A  Volevent  of 
Fillets  of  Turbot 


Soup  Sante, 

Removed  with  FISH, 

removed  with  a 

CHINK  OF  MUTTON. 


Anchovy 
Toast/ 


Macaroni. 


Cheeftecakes. 


Wax  Basket 
of  Prawns. 


Asparafus. 


D -essed 
Crab. 


Omelet  Souffle. 


Mince  Pies. 


Two 
Rabbi's, 
roasted. 


iFrame  J 


Mince  Pies. 


Omelet  Souffle 


Dressed 

Lobster. 


Asparagus. 


A  Wax  Basket 
of  Cray  Fish. 


Cheesecakes. 


Macaroni. 


Anchovy 
Toast. 


Spinach 
and  croutons. 


Basket  of 
Pastry. 


Two  PheasantSy  one  larded. 


137 
No.  20,  BILL  OF  FARE. 

VOLEVENT  OF  EEL. 

Bone  an  eel  and  cut  it  in  pieces  of  about  an  inch 
Jong,  put  it  on  to  blanch  in  cold  water;  when  it 
conies  to  a  boil  take  it  off  the  tire,  put  the  eel 
into  cold  water,  wash  it  verj  clean  and  scrape  the  fat 
off,  then  put  it  in  a  stew-pan  with  as  muchstock  as 
will  bare  I  J'  cover  it,  and  set  it  on  a  slow  stove  to 
simmer  very  slow  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  or  till 
the  stock  is  quite  reduced,  (but  not  for  the  eel  to 
stick  to  the  bottom)  put  a  little  beshemell  to  it,  make 
it  hot,  but  not  boil,  then  put  in  the  yolks  of  six 
eggs  boiled  hard,  and  a  few  0)Nters  that  have  been 
blanched  and  bearded;  put  a  few  drops  of  the  essence 
of  anchovy:  put  the  volevent  on  the  disband  fill  it 
with  the  eel. 

VOLEVENT  OF  TURBOT. 

Fill  the  volevent  with  fillets  of  turbot,  done  the 
same  way  as  is  mentioned  in  page  116. 

GROUSE 
Are  trussed  the  same  as  partridges,  and  will  tako 
about  the  same  time :  send  bread  sauce  in  a  boat. 

LOBSTER  PATfiS. 

Cut  the  lobster  as  small  as  an  emince,put  beshemell, 
a  few  drops  of  anchovy  essence,  and  a  little  cayenue 
pepper. 


^ 


JANUARY  81.    No.  21,  BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Pea  Soup^ 
Removed  ivith  FISH, 

rirmoTed  with  a 
LOIN  OF  VEAfc. 


Teuderonci  of 

Veal 
aod  Truffles. 


Matelot  of 
Tench. 


rittU  P&tei  of 
Veal  and  Ham. 


A  Westphalia 

Ham  »  braised, 

glazed,  &c. 


Lamb  Cnliets 

and 
piquant  sauce. 


Leg  of  Pork 
&  la  Boisseau. 


Fillets  of  Sole 
k  ritalienne. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Tzoo  Wild  Ducks. 


A  Ratafia 
Podding. 


An 
Omelet. 


Volevtnt  of 
Sweetbread. 


Trro  Chickens 
k  la  reine. 


A  Raised 
Pie  k  la 

Fran9ois. 


t  Frame  t 


A  Raised 
Pie  k  la 

Amiens. 


Two  Chickens 
k  la  reine. 


Fillets  of 

Salmon,  rolled, 

aad  caper  saace. 


Volevent  of  a 
Ragout  Mel  ie 


Leg  of  Lamb, 

roasted,  and 

encumber  sauce. 


Legs  of  Fowl 
au  Gratiu. 


Brisket  of  Beef, 
stewed,  &  roots. 


Apricot  Tonrte. 


French  Beans, 


Compote  of 
Apples. 


A  Sonffi^s  of 
Ginger. 


Broiled 
Moshrooms. 


Mince  Pies. 


Asparagus. 


A  Trifle. 


Larks. 


J  Frame  { 


Snipes, 


FilleteofCarp, 

stewed. 


Oystfr 
Petit  Pai6s. 


Neck  of 
Vention. 


Poulet 
k  la  Duchesse. 


Soup  Julian^ 
Removed  with  FISH, 
'   removed  with  a 
CHINE  OF  M^UTTON. 


A  Trifle. 


AsparagDs. 


Mince  Pi«s. 


Mushrooms. 


A  Souffle  of 
Apples  &  Rice. 


Compote  of 
Pears. 


French  Beam. 


Plumb  Tourte. 


An  Omelet. 


Almond  and 
Curd  Podding. 


A  Ilare. 


1 


^1 


130 

N0.  «I,   BILL  OF  FARH. 

PEA  SOUP 

Is  made  the  same  as  soup  Cressey,  only  leave  ont  th# 
aCedcarrot,  use  peas  instead  of  lentils,  andputfiried 
eadcut  in  dice  in  the  tureen  instead  of  rice; 
N.  B.  The  bread  should  be  cut  in  dice  before  fried| 
aad  fried  in  clarified  butter. 

LEGS  OF  FOWL  AU  GRATIN. 

Cut  the  le^s  and  wings  of  two  fowls  that  have  been 
left  from  a  former  dinner  or  supper,  (either  boiled  or 
roaj:ied  will  do)  chop  thyme,  parsley,  shalot,  and 
.  imisbroonis,  mix  thera  with  bread  crumbs  and  a  little 
pepper  and  salt ;  beat  three  eggs  up  in  a  bason,  dip  the 
fowl  in  and  then  roll  it  in  the  bread  crumbs ;  do  them 
twice  over;  then  have  some  clean  lard  in  a  stew-pan  ; 
irh^n  hot  fry  them  of  a  nice  gold  colours  after  they 
are  done  put  some  parsley  (that  has  been  well  dri^d) 
in  to  fry^  it  should  be  very  crisp ;  put  the  parsley  ia 
tbe  middle  of  the  dish,  and  the  fowl  round  it. 

A  SOUFFLE  OF  GINGER. 

Put  a  pint  of  milk  on  to  boil,  put  the  p^el  of  alcmon5 
a  little  cinnamon,  and  lump  sugar  sufficient  to  sweeten 
^9  let  it  boU  about  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  then  strain 
it  into  a  bason  and  put  it  to  cool,  theq  put  a  quarter  ojf 
A  pound  of  butter  into  a  atew-pan,  put  it  on  the  fire  iQ 
tt^lt,  when  melted  put  in  flour  sufficient  nearly  to  dry 
the  butter  up,  keep  it  on  tlie  fire,  and  atir  ijt  while  put* 
uaj;  the  flour  in,  then  take  it  off  tlie  lire  and  break  ia 
^S^  eggs,  one  at  a  time,  mix  each  egg  up  with  the 
^urand  butter  before  you  break  in  another ;  when  alji 
^  ^gs  are  ia  and  well  mixt  up,  so  as  to  be  a  smooth 
^^^^,  then  put  in  a  sufficient  quantity  of  the  milk  tha^ 
w  baen  boiled,  urn  it  well  with  the  batteawhenquit^ 
*B^<K>th;  then  put  in  half  a  pound  of  West  India  pre* 
'^ed  ginger  cut  in  small  pieces^  a  j^laas  of  brandy^ 


i 


*ANUAltY  22.  No.  22,  BILL  OF  FA  HE. 


.AM- 


FlliSr  COURSE. 


^H 


Soup  a  la  Reine^ 

Reraovt^d  wiUi  FISH, 

reo'idved  with  a 

LOIN  of  VEAL  a  la  beshemell. 


Blanqaet  of 

Fowls,  and 

Truffles. 


Rump  of  Beef  h 
U  Datthe  aa 

choux» 

Three  Sweet- 

brf»d8.1ai*ded,& 

•orrel  Siaace. 


Neck  of  Pork. 


Teoderones  of 
Lamb^lapoulet 


A  roast  Turkey 
and  Cellery.    { 


Fillet  of   Beef 

iarded&Spanisti 

sauce. 


Neck  ofVeni- 
•on  roasted. 


SECOND  COURSE. 

Two  Pheasants, 
One  larded. 


\  SaTOy  Cake. 


Salslfie 
fried  in  batter. 


Potted  Hare. 


French  Beans- 


Mock  Tur- 
tle, rerooT'd  ^**^t 
with  a  Ham*  %  Frame  t 
braised,  t'H-<M«t 
and  coulis. 


Soup  Sante 

removed 

with  Fish, 

remoted 

Iwith  achine 

of  mutton. 


Blanc  Mange. 


Oysteri  friod  in 
batter. 


Rice  Fritters. 


liasket  of  Pastry 


Brawn,  with 
asp?ck« 


Jelly. 


Asparagus, 


Mince  Picft«. 


Fricandeau  and 
Tomatawuce. 


A  Leg  of  Lamts 
roasted. 


— - 


Two  Ducks  a  la 

■dtube,  and 

turnips. 


M 


Fricasee  of 
Rabbit. 


A  su<^ing  Pig. 


Three 
PMr4rid«et. 


Three  l»reasts  of 

Fowl,  larded, 

glased,   and  an 

emince. 


Two  I 

Necks  of  Lamb 

a  la  chevaux  de 

frize,&  piquant 

saure. 


'  Moreau  1*  creme 


Mock  TuitlF^ 

Removed  with  FISH, 

remoTod  with 

ROAST    BliEF. 


.rtMd-»^i' 


Mince  Pies* 


Asparagus. 


Orange  Jelly. 


Brawn,  with 
aspick. 


Oysters  fried  in 
batter 


A  Basket  of 
Pastry. 


Apple   Fritters. 


Spinach  and 
croutons. 


Cederata  crcamj 


Potted  Hare. 

Artichoke   Bot- 
toms  fried . 


A  Savoy  Cake. 


Woodcocks* 


14^ 

fTo.  22,  BILL  OF  FAltB. 

BREASTS  OF  FOWL  LARDED, 

AND  AN  EMINCE. 

Cut  out  the  breasts  of  two  fowk  as  large  as  yon  cM) 
eut  the  wings  off,  but  none  of  the  wliite  meat.  Lard 
them  and  finish  the  same  as  the  sweetbread. 

.      MOREAU  A  La  CREME. 

Get  a  slice  of  cod  early  in  (he  tnt^ning^,  atid  opridkle 

it  well  Wfth  salt  both  sides  about  an  hour  before  want** 

ed,  put  it  on  to  boil ;  (the  water  should  boil  ibefore  thd 

fish  is  put  in)  when  done  take  it  up^  break  it  into 

flakes :  put  about  an  ounce  of  butter  into  a  ste^^-paa 

with  chopped  shalot,  parsley^  and  roushroomv;   put 

about  a  table  spoonful  of  stock  In  the  steMr-pan ;  set  it 

on  the  stpve  to  rimEnqr  for  a  few  minutes ;  then  put  as 

much  iiour  as  will  drj  it  up;  then  a  little  clear  stodc 

andcreatn  mif&oientto  make  i|  white,  )etit  boil  a  few 

minutesi   pfit  a  ibw  dtDps  of  ancholi^y  es«:ence  in. 

squeeze  a  little  lemon  juice,  andputa  dust  of  sugar  ana 

a  little  cayenne  pepper;  put  theiish  in  and  set  it  by 

the  side  of  the  stoVe  lo  keep  hot,  but  do  not  let  it  boil  g 

when  dished,  garnish  with  croutons. 

N.  B.  Crimpt  cod  that  has  been  left  from«  former 
dinner  will  do  for  this.  - 

DYSTERS  FRIED  IN  BATTER. 
Blanch  and  beard  the  oysters,  and  put  them  on  i| 
cloth  to  dry^  dip  them  in  batter  one  at  a  time,  and  put 
them  in  hot  lard,  and  fry  them  of  a  nice  brown :    gar* 
nisk  with  fried  parsley. 


JANUARY  23.  No.  23,  BILL  OP  FARE. 


<«» 


Fiii!»l    C\;LK:^ii. 


Iffdian  Soup^ 
'     RemoTcd  with  Fl»H, 
rrinovpd  with 
ftOTTTUr.   B^F.K&  ROOTS. 


I'etit  h&ies  oj 
Sweetbread  I 


•dh 


A   RoUlc^rdof 

Mutton,  aod 

Haricots. 


Pou!arde  k  lf> 
Ducbesse. 


Stewed  Part-' 
ridges  and  cab- 
bage. 


SECOiVD  COUKbE. 


.    A  Ci 


apon. 


Apricot  Tourff- 


A  Fillet 

of  V'-al 

and  collops. 


^  Framed 


Lep  of 

Pork  boiPr 
ii'J  greens 


A  Fowl  h  la 
beshemell. 


iCalvcs'  Feet  and 


A  Shoulder  of 

Lamb,   forced, 

and  sorrel  sauce. 


Semells  and  Pi- 

qn:ii>t  snuce. 

■I  ■     <  I 


Hpinach  land 


Mushrooms. 


R*  iBce  Pies. 


♦     Aitic':oke 
Boitoins,  in 
sauce. 


Macaroni. 


A  wild 
Duck. 


An  Omelet 
Souffle. 


Soup  SaiitCj 

removed  wiih  L'ISH, 

removed  f^lth  a 

CHINE  of  MUTTON. 


Red  Cabbage 
stewed. 


Mince  Pies 


ies.    J 


Ragoikt  MelM. 


Stewed  Cellcry. 


Apple  Tuurte, 


A  Hare. 


No.  93,  BILL  OF  FARE. 

LEG  OP  PORK  BOILED,  AND  GREENS. 

The  time  it  will  take  to  boil  depends  on  the  size, 
it  -  ould  be  rather  over  than  under  done.  Send  up  a 
pease-pudding  to  the  side  table. 


r^ 


.» 
I 


145 

SHOULDER  OF  LAMB,  AND  SOIIRLL 

SAUCE. 

Take  tbe  blade-bone  out,  and  fill  up  the  p1ac0  with 
forced-meat;  sew  it  up  and  put  it  into  a  braise,  and 
put  it  on  tbe  store  to  simmer  quite  slow :  when  done 

Elaze  it,  put  the  sorrel  sauce  on  the  dish,  and  the 
imb  on  it:  garnish  with  either  paste  or  croutons. 

A  FOWL  A  LA  BESHEMELL. 

Qut  the  breast  out  intirelj  from  a  fowl  that  has  be 
roasted  or  boiled^  put  a  riin  of  forced-meat  round  it, 
and  smooth  it  with  a  knife  so  as  to  make  it  look  neat, 
put  a  thick  slice  of  ham  in  the  fowl,  put  the  fowl  in  a 
stew-pan  with  about  half  a  pint  of  stock;  cover  it  over 
and  put  it  on  the  stove  to  simmer  slow  until  the  fowl 
is  hot  through,  aiid  the  forced-meat  is  done :  wheu 
ready  fill  the  fowl  with  the  mince,  (leave  the  ham  iu 
as  it  helps  to  till  up)  put  bread  crumbs  over  the  mince, 
and  oiled  butter  dropped  on  with  the  paste  brush ; 
put  it  in  the  oven  for  a  few  minutes,  brown  it  ovvr 
fvith  a  salamander;  put  besbemell  ou  the  dish,  and 
then  the  fOwl :  garnish  with  paste. 

N.  B.  When  it  is  to  match  a  pie  or  a  volevent  put 
paste  instead  of  forced-meat ;  the  paste  should  be  the 
same  as  the  raised  pies  are  made  of. 


u 


JANUARY  24.  N6.  ii,  BiLL  OF  FAttE. 


FlRg^:  COURSE. 

White  Vermicelli  Soup^ 

Removed  with  FISH, 

removed  with  a 

HAUNCH  OF  VENISON. 


A  Chartreuse. 


Two  Chickens 
a  la  Reine. 


AFilletofPork, 
&  I'ober  sauce. 


Small  Mutton 
Pies. 


Fillet  of  Salmon 
rolled  &  capers. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Pea  Fowiy 

Larded. 


A  Civet  of  Hare, 


\  Turkej',  roast 


llhenish  Cream. 


Musihrooms. 


Small  Curd 
Puddings, 


Scorch  CoUops, 


A  Haunch 

of  Lamb 

larded, 

and  chervil 

sauce. 


Beef  Olives  and 

scooped  pota* 

toes. 


lA  Neck  of  Mut- 
ton glazed,  and 
a  puree  of  pota- 
toes. 

Fillets  of  Sole. 
a  ritalicnne. 


Currie  of 
Rabbit. 


Fondues. 


Pastry, 


Jelly. 


Asparagus. 


Apple  Fritters 


Spinach  in  boxe^ 


Mince  Pies. 


A  Neck  of  Veal 

glazed ,  and  be- 

shemell. 


Two 

Rabbits. 


Mince  Pies. 


Risoles. 


Harricot  of  Mut- 
ton, 


Two  Chickens 
^  la  reine. 


A  Casserole  of 
Rice  with  Gib- 
lets. 


Spinach  in  boxes 


Apple  Fritters. 


Asparagus. 


Partridge  Soup. 

Renlbved  with  FISH;, 

removed  with  a 

CHINE   OF  MUTTON. 


Orange  Jelly. 


Pastry. 


Fendnet. 


Small  Curd 
Puddings. 


Mushrooms. 


Blanc  Mange 


Ttco  Wild  Ducki. 


147 

No.  24,  BILL  OF  FARE. 

PARTRIDfeB  SOUP, 

Drair  and  truss  four  pahridgfes  the  same  ascbiekenf 
ferboMhig':  lay  the  bottom  of' a  ^ew-pan,  that  will 
hold  about  fiye  quarts,  with  slices  of  lean  ham';  then 
pot  in  the  trimmings  of  the  partridges  and  any  other 
poultry,  With  about  half  a  pint  of  good  stock;  then 
put  in  the  partridges,  with  two  or  three  heads  of 
cellery,  four  onions,  a  faggot  of  thyme  and  parsley, 
a^d  aiitfle  mace  tied  up m  it;  cover  them  over  with 
^hite paper,  and  then  the  stewpan  cover;  p«itthem 
over  the  stove  to  simmer  very  slow  until  the  stock  that 
is  in  the  stew-pan  is  nearly  reduced,  then  put  in  about 
two  quarts  of  best  stock  and  let  it  boil  very  slow  until 
the  partridges  are  done,  then  take  them  out  and  cut 
the  wings  off,  and  the  meat  from  the  breast  and  the 
thigh  part  of  the  leg,  put  them  into  a  small  soup-pot ; 
\;ut  a  few  carrots  into  any  shape  as  fancy  directs,  and 
turnips  the  same:  peel  about  two  dozen  onions  quite 
smooth  without  cutting  the  roots :  put  the  carrots  on 
to  boil  in  best  stock,  when  tender  put  in  the  turnips 
and  onions-;  when  done  take  them  off  and  put  them 
to  the  partridge  that  is  in  the  soup-pot ;  then  strain 
the  liquor  the  partridges  were  done  in  into  a  large 
bason,  skim  it  ven^  clean  from  the  fat^  then  put  it  to 
the  partridge  and  roots ;  let  it  boil  a  few  minutes, 
watch  it  till  it  comes  to  a  boil,  as  the  scum  will  rise 
keep  skimming  it:  when  ready  put  it  to  the  tureen. 

N.  B.  The.  leg  bones  and  breastbone  should  be 
returned  into  the  soup-pot  to  keep  boiling  while  the 
roots  are  preparing,  as  yoti  should  make  it  an  inva- 
riable rule  to  give  this  and  all  other  soups  and  made 
dishes  the  flavour  of  what  it  is  made  from,  otherwise 
it  would  have  the  name  without  the  taste.^  Braised 
bundles  of  cabbage  are  sometimes  used  instead  of 
roots. 

»2 


^ANUAltY  22.  No.  82,  BILL  OF  FAHB. 


■*i'i    «■ 


FlliSr  COURSE. 

Soup  a  la  Reine^ 

Removed  witli  FISH, 

reo'.dv^  with  a 

LOIN  of  VEALaiabegheroell. 


SECOND  COURSE. 

Tzoo  Phemants^ 

One  lard fd. 


Blanqaet  of 

Fowls,  «nd 

Truffles. 

[Rttinp  of  Beef  Ik 
U  Dattbe  aa 

choux» 


Three  Sweet- 
breads, larded,  & 
•orrel  »aace. 


Teoderones  of 
Lamb^lapoulet 


A  roast  Turkey 
and  Cellery. 


Neck  of  Pork. 


Fillet  of  Beef 
larded  &SpaDtst 
I         sauce. 


\  SaTOy  Cake. 

Salsifie 
fried  in  batter. 


Neck  ofVeni- 
•on  roasted. 


Potted  Hare. 


Blanc  Mange. 


liasketofPaatry 


Oysters  fried  in 


batter. 


Brawn,  with 
aspfck* 


French  Beans- 


Jelly, 


Rice  Fritters. 


Asparagus. 


Mince  Pica- 


Mock  Tur- 

lle,rerooY*d  . 

with  a  Ham' t  Frame 


L44^.»^f 


1   braised, 
and  coulis. 


■jfcf  * 


I^-^IM"*-  > 


Soup  Sante 

removed 

with  Fish, 

remoted 

with  achine 

of  mutton. 


Three 
Pur4ridgct. 


A  Les  oi  LAmts 
roasted. 

Fricandeau  and 
Tomata^aucc. 


I  -     ■- 


Two  Ducks  a  la 

id  lubp,  and 

lurnips. 

Fricasee  of 
Rabbit. 


A  sudLing  Pig. 


f  1 1  <  i**'^ 
JFramc  J 


■riHM 


Teal. 


■Ml  1  ti 


Three  l»reasts  of 

Fowl,  larded, 

glased,   and  an 

emince. 


Two 
Necks  of  Lamb 
a  la  chevaux  de  | 
frize,&  piquant' 

sauve. 

Morgan  la  creme 


Mince  Pies* 

g  ■•■      »-^     '- 

Asparagus. 


Orange  Jelly. 


Apple   Fritters, 

Spinach  and 
croutons. 


Brawn,  with 
aspick. 

Oysters  fried  in 
batter 


Mock  I'tnflf'^ 
Removed  with  FISH, 
reiDOTod  w-th 
ROAST    BliEF. 


A  Basket  of 

Pastry. 


Cederata  crcaou 


Pottrd  Hare. 


Artichoke  Bot- 
toms fried . 


A  Savoy  Cake. 


fVoodcocki. 


14^ 

^o.  22,  BILL  OF  FAltn. 

BREASTS  OF  FOWL  LARDED, 

AND  AN  EMINCE. 

Cut  out  the  breasts  bf  two  fowls  as  large  aryon  Ml) 
cut  the  wings  off,  but  tione  of  the  white  meat.  Lard 
them  and  finish  the  same  as  the  sweetbread. 

MOREAU  A  La  CREME. 

■ 

Get  a  slice  of  cod  early  in  (he  mornings,  atid  sprinkle 
it  well  ij^jth  salt  both  sides  about  an  hour  before  want** 
ed,  put  it  on  to  boil;  (the  water  should  boill^efore  thd 
fish  is  put  in)  when  done  take  it  up^  break  it  into 
flakes :  put  about  an  ounce  of  butter  into  a  ste^-paa 
with  ehopped  sbalot,  parsley^  and  roushrooms;  put 
about  a  table  spoonfiil  of  stock  In  the  steWrpan ;  set  it 
on  the  stpve  to  rimmer  for  a  few  minutes ;  then  put  as 
much  iiour  as  will  drj  it  up;  then  a  little  clear  stock 
and  cream  sufficient  to  make  it  white,  )etit  boil  a  few 
minutes';  put  a  ibw  drops  of  anchok^y  c$c;ence  in^ 
squeeze  a  little  lem<m  juice,  and  put  a  dust  of  sugar  ana 
a  little  ^cayenne  pepper;  put  theiish  in  and  set  it  by 
the  side  of  the  stoVe^o  keep  hot,  but  do  not  let  it  boil  g 
when  dished,  garnish  with  croutons. 

N.  B.  Crimpt  cod  that  has  been  left  from«  former 
^liiui^  will  do  fcr  this.  * 

DYSTERS  FRIED  IN  BATTER. 
Blanch  and  beard  the  oysters,  and  put  them  on  9 
cloth  to  dry^  dip  them  in  batter  one  at  a  tinte,  and  put 
them  in  hot  lard,  and  fry  them  of  a  nice  brown :    gar* 
ntsk  with  fried  parsley. 


JANUARY  23.  No.2S,  Blf.L  OP  FARE. 


FiR>l   Ci;tK>ii;. 


tfolian  Soup  J 

Remofed  ivitb  FL!!»'H, 

rf moved  with 

trOTTTTJ  r.  BH'.I   ^  ROOTS. 

h  ■  —  -  ■  I  ■    .     ■         •       ■    ■-  « 


SECOiVD  CUUlibE. 


ji  Capon. 


tvtit  h&!ei»  oi 
Sweetbread  I 


A   RoUl^rdof 

Mutton,  aod 

Haricots. 


Poulaide  k  \h 
Ducbeese. 


Stewed  Port-. 
ridges  and  cab 
bage. 


A  Fillet 

of  V'-al 

and  collops. 


^  Framed 


Lep  of 

Pork  boiPc 
ikI  greens 


A  Fowl  h  la 
beshemell. 


Calves'  Feet  and 
Spanish  s'luro 


A  Shoulder  of 

Lamb,   forced, 

and  sorrel  sauce. 


Semells  and  Pi- 
qn  ii>t  SPMce. 


i 


Sou})  Saiite, 

removed  wi:h  L'ISH, 

removed  with  a 

CHINE  of  MUTTON. 


Apricoi  Tourif- 


Hpiriach  And 


■^^^^•wa^- 


Mushrooms. 


-I 


^lint-e  Pies. 


Aitic':oke 

Bo:tOR)s,  in 

sauce. 


Macaroni. 


A  wild 
Duck. 


An  Omelet 
Souffle. 


Red  Ct)bbagc 
stewed. 


Mince  Pies. 


Ragout  Mell^. 


5tew  ed  Cellcry.  . 


Apple  Tourte. 


A  Hare. 


No.  «3,  BILL  OF  FARE. 


LEG  OP  PORK  BOILED,  AND  GREENS. 

The  time  it  will  take  to  boil  depends  on  the  pize^ 
it  *  ould  be  rather  over  than  under  done,  i^end  up  a 
pease-pudding  to  the  side  table. 


145 

'  SHOULDER  OF  LAMB,  AND  SOHRLL 

SAUCE. 

Take  tbe  blade-bone  out,  and  fill  up  the  place  with 
forced-meat;  sew  it  up  and  put  it  into  a  braise,  and 
put  it  on  tbe  store  to  simmer  quite  slow :  when  done 
claze  it,  put  the  sorrel  sauce  on  the  dish,  and  the 
^mb  on  it;  garnish  with  either  paste  or  croutons. 

A  FOWL  A  LA  BESHEMELL.      ' 

Qni  the  breast  out  intirelj  from  a  fowl  that  has  be 
roasted  or  boiled^  put  a  rim  of  forced-meat  round  it, 
and  smooth  it  with  a  knife  so  as  to  ms^ke  it  look  neat, 
put  a  thick  slice  of  ham  in  the  fowl,  put  the  fowl  in  a 
stew-^pan  with  about  half  a  pint  of  stock;  cover  it  over 
and  put  it  on  the  stove  to  simmer  slow  until  the  fowl 
is  hot  through,  aj)d  the  forced-meat  is  done :  wheu 
ready  till  the  fowl  with  the  mince,  (leave  the  ham  iu 
as  it  helps  to  till  up)  put  bread  crumbs  over  the  mince, 
and  oiled  butter  dropped  on  with  the  paste  brush; 
put  it  in  the  oven  for  a  few  minutes,  brown  it  ovvi: 
i^iih  a  salamander;  put  besbemell  ou  the  dish,  and 
then  the  f6wl :  garnish  with  paste. 

N.  B.  When  it  is  to  match  a  pie  or  a  volevent  put 
paste  instead  of  forced-meat ;  the  paste  should  be  the 
same  as  the  raised  pies  are  made  of. 


u 


JANUARY  24.  Nd,  84,  BlLL  OF  FAllE, 

SECOND  COURSE.      I 


FlR9tr  COURSE. 


White  Vermicelli  Soup^ 

Remoted  with  FISH, 

removed  with  a 

HAUNCH  OF  VENISON. 


A  Chartreuse. 


Two  Chickens 
k  la  Reine. 


AFilletofPork, 
&  I'ober  sauce. 


Pea  Fovclf 

Larded. 


8inall  Mutton 
Pies. 


Fillet  of  Salmon 
rolled  &  capers. 


A  Civet  of  Hare. 


llhenlsh  Creaia. 


Mu!ih  rooms. 


.\  Turkej',  roast 


Small  Curd 
Puddings. 


Scorch  Collops, 


Fondues. 


Jelly. 


Asparagus. 


A  Haunch 

of  Lamb 

larded « 

and  chervil 

sauce. 


I 


^  Frame  ^ 


1 


Ham 
braised, 
glazed^ 

and 
spinach. 


Pastry. 


Apple  Fritters 


Spinach  in  boxe: 


Mince  Pies. 


Beef  Olives  and 

scooped  pota* 

toes. 


AKeckofMut- 
,ton  glazed,  and 
ja  puree  of  pota- 
toes. 


Currie  of 
Rabbit. 


Two 

RabbiU. 


^  Frame  I 


Two 
Woodcocks 


Mince  Pies. 


Fillets  of  Sole. 
a  ritalienne. 


A  Neck  of  Veal 

glazed,  andbe- 

shemell. 


Risoles. 


Harricot  of  Mut- 
ton. 


Two  Chickens 
h  la  reine. 


A  Casserole  of 
Rice  with  Gib- 
lets. 


Spinach  in  boxefe 


Pastry. 


Fondues. 


Apple  Fritters. 


Asparagus. 


Partridge  Soup. 

Rcmtoved  with  FISHi 

removed  with  a 

CHINE   OF   MUTTON. 


Orange  Jelly. 


Small  Curd 
Puddings. 


Mushrooms. 


Blanc  Iklange 


Tico  Wild  Ducks. 


147 

No.  24,  BILL  OF  FARE. 

PARTRlDi&B  SOUP, 

Dratr  and  truss  four  partridges  the  same  aseliiekenf 
£)r  boiling^:  lay  the  bottom  i^' a  ^ew-pan,  that  will 
hold  about  five  quarts,  with  slices  of  lean  ham ;  then 
put  in  the  trimmings  of  the  partridges  and  any  other 
poultry,  wfith  about  half  a  pint  of  good  stock;  then 
put  in  the  partridges,  with  two  or  three  heads  of 
cellery,  four  onions,  a  faggot  of  thyme  and  parsley, 
and  alitfle' mace  tied  up  in  it;  cover  them  over  with 
M^hite  paper,  and  then  the  stew-pan  cover ;  p«it  them 
over  the  stove  to  simmer  very  slow  until  the  stock  that 
is  in  the  stew-pan  is  nearly  reduced,  then  put  in  about 
two  quarts  of  best  stock  and  let  it  boil  very  slow  until 
the  partridges  are  done,  then  take  them  out  and  cut 
the  wings  off,  and  the  meat  from  the  breast  and  the 
thigh  part  of  the  leg,  put  them  into  a  small  soup-pot; 
\;ut  a  few  carrots  into  any  shape  as  fancy  directs,  and 
turnips  the  same:  peel  about  two  dozen  onions  quite 
smooth  without  ctitting  the  roots :  put  the  carrots  on 
to  boil  in  best  stock,  when  tender  put  in  the  turnips 
and  onions';  when  done  take  them  off  and  put  them 
to  the  partridge  that  is  in  the  soup-pot ;  then  strain 
the  liquor  the  partridges  were  done  in  into  a  large 
bason,  skim  it  very  clean  from  the  fat^  then  put  it  to 
the  partridge  and  roots ;  let  it  boil  a  few  minutes, 
tvatch  it  till  it  comes  to  a  boll,  as  the  scum  will  rise 
keep  skimming  it:  when  ready  put  it  to  the  tureen. 

N.  B.  The.  leg  bones  and  breast 'bone  should  be 
returned  into  the  soup-pot  to  keep  boiling  while  the 
roots  are  preparing,  as  yoU  should  make  it  an  inva- 
riable rule  to  give  this  and  all  other  soups  and  made 
dishes  the  flavour  of  what  it  is  made  from,  otherwise 
it  would  have  the  name  without  the  taste.^  Braised 
bundles  of  cabbage  are  sometimes  used  instead  of 
roois. 

n2 


148 

«PINACH»  IN  BOXES. 

;  Prepare  the  spinach  the  same  as  for  a  l^econd  coursf* 
ilish;  cut  the  boxes  from  thecriimbbfa  loaf  in  what 
'shape  you  please,  cut  thenif  of  such  a  size  that  (he  dislk 
mlrtake  about  seven ;  mark  a  piece  out.aik  the  iof 
with  a  paste  cutter  the  san^e  way  as  you  do  for  the  tops 
of  pattieS)  do  not  take  it  out  until  the  boxes  are  fried, 
fry  them  in  clarified,  butter  oi*  clean  lard :  when  done 
take  the  top, off,  scoop  the  crumb  out,  and  fill  them 
with  ^inach;  put  the  covers  on,  and  dish  them  on  a 
napkin. 

N.  B.  The  same  kind  of  boxes  are  used  fiir  musb* 
rooms  and  oysters* 


< 


;■  'I 


JANUARY  S5.  No.  25,  BILL  OF  FARE, 


FIRST   COURSE. 


Soup  Cressey^ 

Removed  urilh 
A.  L£G  OF  LAMB,  Bculcd, 
LOIN   Fried. 
AND    SPINACH. 


White  Collops 

and 
Biushrooms. 


Palates  rolled , 
and  a 


Petit  Vk{k%, 


Two 

Chickens 
k  la  reine. 


•»»♦»»»» 


Neck  of 
Venii^n. 


Two  Heart 
Sweetbread  t, 

larded,  and 
tomata  savce. 


MnttoB  Cutlets 

and 
piquant  saace. 


■  >  >■ 


Veal  Olives, 

and 
Italian,  sauce* 


A  Fricasee  of 
Rabbits 

and  onions. 

'  - 


FISH, 

Removed  witk  a 
SIRLOIN  OF  BEfiF. 


SECOND  COURSfi. 


Partridges^ 


Apple  Pff , 
with  Custard. 


French 
Beans. 


Mtnce 
Pies, 


Bscaloped 
Oystcis. 


*  m 

S  Frame: 


Raspbcm 
Cream. 


Omelet. 


Cbeeseeakes, 


Brocoli. 


A  Damson  Pie. 


Tzto  mid  Ducks. 


\  No.  25,  BILL  OF  FARE. 

Mutton  cutlets  are  done  exactly  as  lamb  cutlets,  and 
I      <aisfied  the  same,  ,  .     .... 

]  h3 


JANUARY  26,  No.  S6,  BILL  OF  FARl?. 


FIRST  COURSE. 


A  Tureeh  of  Mutton  Sf  Broth 
Wi^  Roots,  [ 

Removed  lYith  a 
TURKEY  AJHD   CHKSNUTS. 


Compote  of 
5  Pifl;c6ns,  with 
mushrooBis,  &c. 


A  SucJking 


Two  Partridges, 

stowed, 
aoJ  s?ivov8. 


Ox  Rumps, 

$;lazed,  and 

Spanish  sauce. 


Small  Loin  of 
Veal. 


A  Fowl 

4  la 
heihemell. 


SECOND  COUI^SE. 


Snipes, 


Spinach 
and  croutons. 


A  Trifle. 


FISH, 
Removed  with 

A  Chine  of  Mutton.- 


I  I   >i 


Cfurdoom. 


Asparagus. 


Mince  Pies,     t 

-  -  I 


Trufllei, 
in  a  Napkin. 


A  Hare, 


«k«Mti<«bi«»iri««ki 


I  ^ 


Mo.  26,  BII^  OF  FARE. 

MUTTON  AND  BROTH,  WITH  ROOTS.  \ 

Cut  a  neck  of  mutton  iqt»€lK>^4Uid  ^rim  them  4h^ 
same  as  culj^ts;  put  the  triiQioi^g^  ^crag,  and  yijr 
'oth,er  (riaini]ng:s  into  a  stew-pan,  a  fe^  oi^ions,  t^imr 
mings  of  cellery,  and  a  faggot  of  thyme  and  paraleyj; 
jpulabbuthalfa  pint  of  water  in,  put  it  over  a  slo\r 
'gtove  to  draw  down,  but  not  tp  catch  ^i  the  bottom.; 
when  ijuite  drawn  down  put  in  abont  two  quarts  0|f 
good  stock,  put  it  oyer  the  stove  to  boi},  be  particular: 
in  keening  it  skiramed ;  when  it  i^omes  lb  a  boil  lake 
it  oBTthe  fire  and  set  it  by  the  side  to  boil  quite  sioii<, 
^and  as  the  scum  rises  skim  it  off  16  keep  il  very  cjearj; 
lli£n.4)iitlhfi  .chops  into  agtfig-paa-with  about  half  n 
pint  of  good  stock,  scoop  carrots  and  puj  them  in  the 
^tew-pan  with  the  mutton,  put  it  over  the  stove  to 
<h-aw  d©wn;  when  it  has  bjcen  oa  .about  ^p  hour  put 
half  a  pint  mpre  of  stock,  as  many  8fioope4.|urnip8  ^ 


151 

carrots,  andsdi^oilt  two  dozen  onions;  let  it  sinims^t 
gentlj  until  all  the  liquid  is  nearly  reduced,  thr^n 
strain  off  the  broth  that  hsu;  the  trimmtngs  in,  and  put 
it  to  the  <5hop8,  &€.— pot-it  by  the  side  of  the  stove  to 
boil  very  slow,  and  as  the  seuni  rise<4  skim  it  off,  and 
all  the  Ibt;  it  requires  to  be  particularly  clear  ani 
iSree  from  fat. 

COMPOTE  OF  PIGEONS,  AND  TRUFFLES. 

Draw  the  legs  of  the  pigeons  in,  (in  the  same  man* 

Beras  chickens  for  boiling)  singe  them,  and  fill  t*ie:n 

with  forced-meat,  and  put  a  small  raw  truffle  in  eacU, 

it  -should  be  peeled  nrst;    skewer  thein,  cjver  the 

breast  quite  over  with  bacon,  and  tie  it  on ;   put  t!)€ 

inecks,  heads,  gizzards,  and  any  other  giblets  that  may 

be  convenient,  into  a  atew-pan,  with  a  few  slices  of 

lean  ham,  about  half  a  dozen  shalots,  a  few  blades  of 

mace,  two  or  thr^bay  leaVes^and  half  a  pint  of  stock; 

then  pot  in  the  pfgeoff8,coVeT  them  over  With  paper, 

iput  the  cover  of  the  stew-pan  on,  and  put  it  over  M 

islow  stove  to  dimmer  gently  for  half  an  hour^jor  until 

^he  pigeons  ate  ^ufficient!ly  tender;    then  take  the 

pigeons  out  and  cover  them  over  winle  the  sauce  is 

preparing ;  strain  off  the  Uquor  that  the  pigeons  were 

done  in,  and  skim  the  fat  off;  pnt  a  bit  of  butter  in  a 

stew-pan,  when  melted  put  a  little  Hoar,  si^iBcient  to 

thicken  the  sauce,  then  put  in  the  liquor  the  pigeons 

were  done  in,  first  skim  the  fat  off;   keep  stirring  it 

while  on  the  fire,  put  in  about  a  gill  of  slierry  wine: 

when  boiled  slice  a  few  truffles  in,  then  take  the  bacon 

off  the  pigeons,  and  the  skewer  out;  put  the  pigeon^ 

in  the  sauce  to  keep  hot,  season  them  with  a  littl^ 

cayenne  pepper;   put  the  pigeons  on  the  dish,  wi 

the  sauce  over  them :  garnish  with  paste. 


B  i 


^  I 


JANUARY  27.    No.  27,  BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Pea  Soup^ 

removed  with 
Stewed  Beef,  and  Roots. 


A  Sovties  of 

Fowl, 

\nd  inashFOorns. 


Semells, 

with 

]ri  quant  saace. 


Matelot  of 
Tench. 


Breast  of  Lamb, 

grilled,  and 

tomau  sauee. 


Chine  of  Mutton, 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Larks, 


Spinach, 
in  boxes. 


Escaloped 
,  Ousters. 


£s. 
chariot. 


i**i 


A 

Lobster. 


Ratafia 
Paddinj^. 


A  nchovy 
Toast. 


Fondues, 
in  cases. 


Partridges. 


JANUARY  28.    No.  28,  BILL^OF  FARE. 


ttmmm 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Flemish  Soup^ 
Remoied  with  FISH. 


Minced  and 
broiled  Turkey, 


Beef 

Stc^. 


Haunch  of^ 
Veuison. 


Pigs'  Feet 

griUed,  and 
Kars  shreded. 


Capilotade 

of 
Partridges. 


FISH, 
removed  with  a 

Chine  of  Mutton. 


SECOND  COURSE,  j 


A  Pheasant 


Cardoons. 


DressM 

Lobster. 


Apple 

with 
cream* 


Jelly. 


Savoy ; 
Cake. 


Anchovy  Toast 


Macaroni. 


Wild  Duck. 


1 


15^ 
Ko.^^6XLLOFFAkE.  ! 

•    I 

i^i-EMish  soup. 

Slice  six  onions,  cut  six  heads  of  cellery  fnto  small 
pieces,  and  slice  about  twelve  potatoes*  put  about  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter  into  a  stefw-pan  with  a 
Httle  stock,  s^t  rt  over  the  stove  to  boil  slow  for  half 
anhour,  then  fill  it  up  with  good  broth  :  let  it  it  boH 

Suite  sloiv  for  half  an  hour,  or  until  the  potatoes  are 
issolved,  then  rub  itthrou«^h  a  tammy,  and  put  a  pint 
of  cream  to  it  that  has  been  boiled ;  put  it  into  a  soup-^ 
pot  to  keep  hot  untiHvaiJtedi  .    , 

BEEF  STEAKS. 

The  steaks  should  be  cut  from  the  rump,.and  broiled 
oxer  a  clear  fire,  if  the  range  should  not  be  clear  broil 
them  pyer  a  charcoal  Ktove  upon,  a  fluli^-  gridiron  > 
put  a  little  chopped  shalot  on  the  dish,  and  a  smaljl 
piece  oPf>iitter,  and  a  spoonful  ofketchup,  and  be  very^ 
particular  in  sending  them  hot  to  Uible,  all  the  other 

EiTt  of  the  dinfier  should  hfi  fished  and  sentout  of  tl^ 
tcben  before  the  beefsteaks  are  put  on  the  gridiroac. 

fieasoa  them  with  pepper  and  salt. 

•      •  * 

MINCED  AND  BROILED  TURKEY 

Is  done  from  tlie  remainder  of  a  turkey  that  Rat 
been  left  from  a  former  dinner;    mince  the  breast^ 
hrcu)  the  thig^h  bone  of  the  leg  and  th#  backbone  cut 
10  about  three  pieces;  put  the  trimmings  of  the  turkey. 
Vnto  a  stew-pan  with  a  little  stock,  put  it  on  the  stove 
to  boil  gently  for  half  an-  hour ;.  make  the  sauce  from 
Vbe  liawor  the  turkey  bones  were  boiled  in^  when  the 
nuce^  made  put  the  mince  in;  squeeze  a  little  lemon 
juice, anda  little  dust  ofsu^^as;  broil  the  legs^ pepper 
ajid  salt  them  well  to  make  them  r<^ishing;   they*' 
should  be  of  a  nice  brown,  but  not  burnt;   (lut  th^: 
ttiDce  on  the  dish  first^  anc^  the  broils  on  the  miiice.. 


m 

CAPILOTADE  OF  PARTRIDGE 

Is  made  from  the  partridges  left  from  the  day  before, 
cut  up  the  partridges  as  nieat  as  they  will  admit  of; 
put  the  trinnmiugs  into  a  $tew*pan  witb-^  ie^  sli^^pts^ 
a  blade  or  two  of  mace,  and  a  pint  of  ga^  a  ?topk ;  put 
it  on  to  boil  slow  fbr  half  an  hour,  then  strain  it  qff  into 
a  basoii;  then  put  ahoutran  ounce  of  buttei*  uito  a 
stew-pan,  when  melted  put  as  much  flour  ^  will 
thicken  the  quantity  of  sauce  wanted<(  stir  it  about  oyeir 
the  fire  with  a  wooden  spoon  for  a  minute  or  two,, 
then  pfit  in  the  liquor  the  partridges  ^^erje  done  i%. 
put  in  a  little  at  a  time,  keep  birring  it  all  tlu>.whi^; 
put  it  on  to  boil  for  a  few  minutes,  if  there  should  he 
too  much  reduce  it  to  the  quantity  wanted,  then  put 
in  the  partridge;   set  it  by  the  side  of  the  stove  (add 
one  glass  of  wine  before  the  partridge  is  put  in)  to 
keep  hot,  it  should  not  boil  after  the  partridge  is  in;* 
when  you  dish  it  put  the  breast  in  the  middle,  and  the' 
legs  and  wings  round  them:   garnish  with  paste  or 
croutons. 

N.  B.  Make  it  an  invariable  rule  not  to  let  any 
Jtash  or  mince  boil  after  it  is  put  in  the  sauce. 

JANUARY  29,    No.  29,  BILL  OF  FARE. 


FiRST  COURSE. 


Soup  and  Bouillie, 

Hfmoved  with  a  Turk«'v,  roast. 


White  CoUops. 


Lain  I)  Cutlets, 

and 
piquant  sance. 


VeaV  Pic 
'^ish. 


Neck  of 

I     roasted. 


Pif^eou 
Pie 

in  a  dish 


SJSCOND  COUilSK 


Woodcocks* 


Beet  Root. 


Petit  pates. 


FricaBpe  of 
Chicken. 


FISH.  rcmoTed  with 
ROA^T  BEEF. 


Ifacasoiii. 


Paitry. 


Jelly. 


Pastry. 


rfnelet  Souffle. 


S  tisifie  in  savco. 


A  Hare. 


■rA 


155 

No.  9&,  BILL  OF  FARE. 

NECK  OF  MUTTON,  ROASTED. 

Saw  off  the  chine  bone  and  strip  the  meat  from  the^ 

tops  of  the  ribs^  and  chop  off  about  an  inch  of  the 

bones;   put  it  on  a  lark  spit;  butter  and  salt  it,  then 

put  two  sheets  of  paper  over  it;  tie  the  paper  on,  and 

tie  it  on  the  spit,  it  will,  take  nearly  an  iiour:  when 

wanted  cut  the  paper  off,  baste  it  with  butter,  ilour 

and  salt  it^  then  dish  it :  put  the  gravy  on  the  dish 

first,  aad  then  the  mutton. 

BEET  ROOT. 

.  Boil  the  beet  root  until  tender,  when  cold  peel  it 
ftnd  cut  it  in  slices ;  put  it  into  a  stew-pan  with  a  little* 
coulis  and  a  little  vinegar;  let  it  boil  a  few  niinute9> 
so  as  to  make  the  sauce  red :  dish  it  round  the  dish^ 
and  the  sauce  in  the  middle. 

PIGEON  PIE  IN  A  DISH. 

Lay  a  beefsteak  at  the  bottom  of  the  dish,  season  it 
with  pepper  and  salt:  season  the  pigeons  and  put 
them  m,  with  some  hard  yolks  of  eggs  and  about  half 
a  pint  of  good  stock;  cover  the  pie  with  puff  pastes 
when  done  put  in  a  little  more  stock. 

VEAL  PIE  IN  A  DISH. 

Cut  slices  of  veal  from  the  fillet,  dip  them  in  warm 
stock,  (otherwise  they  would  stick  together  wheii 
baked)  season  with  pepper  and  saltj  chopped  shailot,. 
parsley,  and  mushrooms;  put  in  hard  yoJks  of  eggs, 
add  about  half  a  pint  of  stock ;  cover  it  in  with  pun 
fSisU  I  wfaeo  done  put  in  a  little  more  gravy  if  wanted^ 


H    $ 


JANUARY  SO,  No.  SO,  BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Pea  Soup^ 

Removed  with  FISII, 

removed  wUh 

A  HAUNCH  OF  VENISON. 


Two 

Sweetbreads 
larded,  and 
an  eoiincr. 


Petit 

Pates. 


Tongue 
glazed, 

and 
turni  ps 


Raised 
Pic, 


Two 

Chickens 

reine. 


Risoles., 


A  Neck  of 

Lamb,  larded, 

glazed,  and 

sorrel  sance. 


iSoup  Sante, 

Removed  with  FISH, 
removed  with  a 

Chine  of  Mutton. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


A  Pheasftnt. 


R«d  Cabbagf^, 
Stewed. 


RagoAt. 


Rasp- 
berry 
Tourte. 


A 

Chantilly 
Cake. 


Apricot 
Tourte.    > 


Fondues, 
in  cases. 


Artichoke 
Bottoms, 
in  sauce. 


Two  Rabbits. 


JANUARY  SI,  No.  31,  BILL  OF  FARE. 


Fl  liST  COURSE. 


Soup  a  la,  Reine^ 

Removed- with  a 
fOlV  OF.  VI  ATi. 


and  Baooii  with 
•  piqur^nt  sauc«"* 


Poik  Chops  and 

mashed 

potatoes. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Two  Partridges. 


Spinach  and 


Oysters, 
escaloped. 


Stewetl 

Beef  and 

roi'ts. 


'A*. 


Maintcnon 
Cutlets. 


Beef  Olives,    i 

with 
!^hnlot  sauce.    \ 


FISH, 
.    Reihoved  with  a 

Chine  of  Mutton, 


A  pp to  and 
Barberry 
Tourte. 


Dressed 

Lobster. 


Anchovy. 
Toast. 


Hare. 


157 

iVb.  31,  BILL  OF  FARE, 

CALVE'S  LIVER,  AND  BACON. 

Cut  the  liver  in  slices,  and  as  many  slices  of  bacon 
%  there  is  liver ;  fry  the  bacon  fiijst,  and  afterwards 
tVie  liver  in  patt  of  the  fat  that  comes  from  the  bacon^ 
iif  there  be  too  much  fat  in  the  pan  the  liver  will  not 
fry  crisp)  put  tbe  liver  and  bacon  on  the  back  of  a 
sieve  to  d^ain  the  (at  from  it^then  dish  it:  lajr  the 
liver  rouud  the  disb  and  a  piece  of  bacon  between 
each  piece  of  liver  ^  put  the  sauce  in  (he  middle. 

APPLE  AND  BARBERRY  TOURTK 

Sheet  a  tart  pan  with  puff  paste,  and  put  marmalade 
of  apples  and  an  equal  quantity  of  preserved  bar^^ 
berries :  cross-bar  it. 


FEBRUARY  I,  No.  ^2,  BILL  OF  FARfT. 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Vermicelli  Soupy 

Removed  with  4 

LEG  OF  PORK,  BOILED, 

And  Greens. 


Smal!  Mutton 
Pies,,  raised. 


Poulet  a  la 
Duichesee. 


Neck  ef 

Veal, 

roasted. 


'■'■  r 


Sc^wch 
CoUo^. 


Currie  of 

Rabbit, 

vr'ith  rice. 


FISH, 
Removed  with,a 

Chinf  of  Muttoru 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Two  Woodcocks. 


Brawn. 


Musl^'oomg. 


Apple  Pie, 

wit|i 

Custard.. 


Sabifie. 


Potted  Hare. 


Three  Partridges. 


153 

No.  32,  BILL  OF  FARE. 

NECK  OF  VEAL,  ROASTED. 

'  Saw  off  the  chine  bone  and  strip  the  meat  from  the 
the  ends  of  the  ribs;  chop  off  about  an  inch  of  th^ 
rii)  bones,  put  it  on  a  lark  spit  and  tie  it  on  the  spit  % 
butter  and  salt  it,  put  double  paper  over  it  and  tie  the 
papier  on  :  keep  it  well  basted  while  at  the  fire:  put 
gravjr  and  butter  upder  the  veal  when  dished. 

APPLE  PIE,  WITH  CUSTARD. 

Put  a  few  cJoves  and  a  little  cinnamon  into  a  small 
»tew-pan,  put  about  a  gill  of  water  to  the  spice,  and 
put  it  on  the  store  to  simmer  for  a  few  minutes,  then 
strain  it  into  a  bason  and  put  it  to  cool;  peel  the 
apples,  cut  them  in  quarters,  and  cut  the  cores  out; 
place  them  in  the  dish,  grate  a  lemon  and  put  it  with 
the  apples,,  put  sugar  on  them,  and  put  the  water  the 
spice  was  boiled  in^  put  paste  round  the  rim  of  the 
dish,  cover  it  over,  bake  it,  and  put  it  to  cool ;  when 
cold  take  the  top  off  and  put  in  the  custard  on  the 
apples ;  cut  the  top  crust  into  neat  pieces  and  put  it 
round  the  apples.  Another  time  put  whipped  cream 
instead  of  custard. 


Jtl^^lSALB^lf'  g.  Kg  33,  BILL  OF  FARR 
Y  ^m§ri  COURSE. 

A  Tureen  of  Mutton  S^ Broth 

WiA  Roots, 
HcmoTed  withTUUKElY,  boil«!, 
and  Oyateca  and  Cellery  sauce. 


1^ 


Ti^nderooi^  of 

Veal, 
and  TinffleB. 


MHttftn  Catloto. 

plain  broiled, 

and 

tomata  nauce. 


Lamb  Pie 
in  a  dish. 


braised, 

f^lazed,  and 

spinach. 


Pigeon 

PfCfB» 

dish. 


\  Fricasee  of 

Rabbit 
and  onioiis. 


FISH, 

RemoYfd  with  a 

Sirlstin  oj  B^ef^ 


No,  S3,  BILL  OF  FARE. 

LAMB  PIE  IN  A  DISH 

Is  made  the  same  way  as  a  veal  pie,  mentioned 
In  page  155. 

MUTTON  CUTLETS  PLAIN  BROILED, 
AND  TOMATA  SAUCE. 

* « 

Cut  the  cutlets  either  from  a  neck  or  loin,  trinj 
them  neat,  broil  them  o\^er  the  stove  of  a  nice  brown 
on  both  sides,  aad  season  them  with  white  pepper  and 
salt :  thp  dish  should  be  quite  hot  before  the  cuthsts 
are  put  on  it,  put  them  round  the  dish^  and  the  tomata 
sauce  in  the  middle. 

MUSHROOMS,  IN  BOXES. 

Stew  the  mushrooms'the  same  way  as  is  mentioned 
in  page  15,  and  the  boxes  the  same  as  the  spinach 
boxes  in  page  148. 


FEBRUARY  3,  No.  3*,  BILL  OF  FARE' 


1 


FIRST  COURSE. 

Soup  Cressey^ 

removed  with 
A  LEG  OF  PORK,  ROAST. 


Compote  of 
Pifcon. 


An  Emince  of 
Tarkey«  aad 
Legs  broiled. 


Fillet  of 
Veal. 


Semells  of 
Carp. 


Ox  Rumps, 

Savo;ss,  and 

Spaaigh  sauce. 


FISH, 
Removed  vith  a 

Leg  of  Mutton^  roast. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


A  Wild  Duck. 


Spinach  and 
Eggs. 


A  Lob&tei^ 


Tartlets. 


Blanc 
Mange. 


Small 
Pnddingt 


Anchov|r 
Toast. 


Stewed 
Ollery. 


A  Capon* 


No.  34,  BILL  OF  FAREi 

A  LEG  6F  mutton 

Will  take  about  two  hours  roasting :  follow  the 
wua*  process  as  for  a  chioe  of  mutton. 

STEWED  CELLERY. 

Trim  twelve  heads  of  cellery,  leave  Ihera  a^out  five 
inclies  long,  put  them  on  in  as  much,  stock  as  will 
cover  them,  reduce  it  to  a  glaze,  and  then  put  ihi 
coulis  sufficient  to  cover  the  cellerj. 


I1.BRUARY  4,  No.  35,  BILL  OF  FARE; 


FIRST   COURSE. 


Flemish  Soupy 

RemoTcd  with 
A   FILLET  OF   VEAL. 


A  Matelot  of 
Eel. 


I 


A  Breast  of 
Lamb,  srilled, 

and 
piquant  sauce. 


Neck  of 
Pork,  roast. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


TWo  (Shickensj  one  larded. 


Cray  Fish 
au  gmtin. 


Spinach  and 
Croutons, 


Fowl 
^lalMabettell. 


Beef 
Stcakf. 


FISH, 

Removed  with  a 

Ckin€  of  Mutton* 


Custards, 
in  cupt. 


Jelly. 


Apple 
Pie. 


Cardoont. 


Fscaloped 
Oysters. 


Two  Rabbits. 


No.  S3,  BILL  OF  FARE. 

TWO  CHICKENS,  ONE  LARDED. 

Thej  will  take  about  fifteen  miniJtes  to  roast'; 
baste  them  with  butter;  when  they  arc  done  baste 
t'h^m  again,  and  flour  and  salt  them;  put  gravy  in 
the  dish,  and  then  the  chickens :  garuiah  wiUi  wateir 
cresses.  ^  ; 

CRAY  FISH  AU  GRATIN 
Is  done  exactly  as  lobster  au  gratia. 


FEBRUARY  5,  No.  36,  BILL  OF  FARE. 
I       FIRST  COURSE. 


Tureen  of  Mock  Turitle^  i 
Removed  with  FISH,  ; 

removed  with  a  i 

LOIN  OF  VBAL  a  labeshcmell. 


Tvto 

Sweetbreads 

larded,  and 

sorrel  sauce. 


BlaBquet  of 

Fowl,  and 

MiishrooiBS. 


A  Neck 
ofMutton 
boiled,  & 

mashed 
Turnips. 


A  Turkey 

and 
Cheinuts. 


A 

Chine  of 
Bacon 

and 
Greens. 


A  Souties  of 
Habbit 


and  Troffles.   ,        and  turnips. 


A  Duck  4  la  « 
daubs,  larded. 


«ECOND  COURSE. 


Three  Partridges, 


Artichoke 
Bottoms, 
in  sauce. 


Broiled 
Mushrooms. 


8oup  Sante, 

Removed  vFitb  FISH, 

removed  with  a 
Sir  lorn  of  Beef. 


Rhenish 
Cream. 


Chantilly 
Cake. 


Jelly. 


Sil  si  fie, 
fried  In  batter. 


Macaroni. 


A  Hartn 


•*.b> 


No.  36,  BILL,  OF  FARE. 
A  DUOJi  A  LA  DAUBE,  LARDED. 

Lard  the  duck,  and  finish  it  as  all  other  lardings. 
FEBRUARY  6,  No.  37,  BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Rice  Soup^  with  Chicken, 

.  Removed  with 

STEWED  REEF  AND  ROOTS, 


Petit  PAtes. 


Fillets  of  Fowl 

larded, 
and  an  blmince. 


>]eck  «if 
Veal,  ro  :St. 


Palates  rolled, 
and  a  Rai^out. 


Pork  Cutlets 
ind  reber  sauce. 


SECOND   COURSE. 


Woodcocks'. 


RagoAt  Mell^. 


Omelet. 


FISH,  rcmoYcd  with  a; 
CHINE  OF  MUTTON. 


Ratafia 
Padding. 


J«Uy. 


A  Souffle 

of  Apple 

and 

Rice, 


? 


Lobster 
au  Gratin. 


Cardoons,  with 
brown  sauce. 


Two  Widseons, 


J 


163 

No.  37,  BILL  OF  FARE. 

RICE  SOUP  WITH  A  CHICKEN. 

Blanch  ^  quarter  of  a  pound  of  rice  and  put  it  int# 
a  small  8oup-pot^  with  a  quart  of  best  stock  and  a 
small  fowl  with  the  legs  drawn  in,  but  no  skewer  in 
it:  put  it  on  the  fire  to  simiHer  very  slow,  watch  it, 
as  the  rice  will  soon  soak  the  stock  up ;  when  nearly 
diy  fill  the  pot  up,  when  it  comes  to  a  boil  skim  it 
and  let  it  boil  by  the  side  of  the  stove  until  the  fowl 
is  quite  tender,  so  that  the  bones  will  pull  put:  when 
leaaiy  put  it  in  the  tureen. 

PORK  CUTLETS  AND  ROBER  SAUCE. 

Put  about  itwo  ounces  of  butter  iitfo  a  stew-paQ 

-with  chapped  shadot,   pi^rsley,  thyme^   inuj5hrooms4 

>I)epper,  and  .salt;  when  the  h.»tjk«^  ia  meltad  lei  i^ 

Ifitaad  till  half  coldj  put  clajlfifid  l>utter  ruj  Ji  .souiifis^ 

•pan ;  cut  the  cutlets  either  from  the  neek  nr  loin,  trim 

them  neat,  dip  them  in  the  butter  and  ]iefbs,'ipake  a| 

much  of  the  herbs  stick  to  them  as  you  can^  roll  them 

in  bread  crumbs,  put  them  on  the  souties-pan,  and 

finish  the  same  fts' lamh  .cutlet^  :  b^  ^m  round  th% 

dish,  and  the  ^uce  \\\  the  mi^dlQ. 

.    -     -.  .  qAJRPODNS. 

Trim  them  ttnd  stefv  ^hein  tb«  QftO)^  irajr  wMewe| 
ceUery,  and  ^i>i§h  ik^  w^l^  If^y* 


FEBRUARY  7,  No.  38,  BILL  OP  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Soup  Sant6, 

Removf'd  with  a 
FILLET  OF  VEAL. 


A  Sanall  Raised 

Pie  with  Mutton 

and  potsttdes. 


Tenderones  of 

Lamb  and 

Mushrooms. 


Sparerib 
of  Pork. 


A  Salmie  of 
"Woodcock 
k  la  tartar. 


A  Fowl 

&la 
btshemell. 


FISH, 
remoTed  with  a 

Leg  of  Mutton*  ^ 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Partridges* 


Poached  Eg^gs 
and  If  am. 


Macaroni, 


Traflles, 

IB  a 
Napkia. 


MiubroonkSf 


A  Hare* 


J 


<  No.  38,  BILL  OF  FARE.  \ 

A  FILLET  OF  VEAL.  ) 

Put  some  comman  stuffing  in  the  flap,'  cut  the  fl»nk 
^ece  out  i^s  it  will  make  it  more  round!  ^o  skewer. up^ 
put  it  on  the  spit,  butter  it  well,  spririkle  salt  oh  il, 
put  two  sheets  of , white  kitchen  paper  over  \%y  and  tie 
it  on  with  twine,  two  hours  will  roast  it ;  put  gravy 
and  butter  in  the  dish.  When  the  paper  is  taken  on 
the  veal  floor  it  w^U  to  make  it  of  a  nice  brown  ;  Just 
before  it  is  taken  up  baste  it  with  butter,  and  flour 
and  salt  it 

TRUFFLES 

Are  mentioned  in  page  32 ;  put  them  on  a  napkia 
without  peeling. 


i 


165  . 

PANCAKES. 

6oil  a  -quart  oT  milk  and  cream  mixed,  put  a  little 
einnamon  and  lemon  peel  in  it,  let  it  boil  gentl/ 
for  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  then  break  six  egea 
into  a  bason,  beat  th«m  up  well,  then  stir  in  six 
spoonfuls  of  6our,  mix  it  well  and  make  it  quite 
smooth,  then  put  in  the  milk  and  cream  that  has  been 
been  boiled,  first  take  out  the  lemon  peel  and  cin- 
namon, put  in  a  little  sugar,  a  glass  of  brandy,  and  a 
grate  a  little  nutmeg;  have  clarified  butter  readj; 
put  the  pan  on  the  fire,  put  a  little  clarified  butter  in 
it,  and  wipe  the  pan  out  with  a  clean  rubber,  then 
put  a  little  more  and  a  large  spoonful  of  the  batter, 
turn  them  with  your  knife,  when  of  a  light  brown  on 
both  sides  take  it  out  and  put  sifted  sugar  over;  roll 
them  like  a  wafisr,  and  send  th^m  to  table  as  hot  as 
possible. 

FEBRUARY  8,  No.  d9,  BILL  OF  FARE.      . 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Soup  Cresset/y 

RemoTed  with  a 

HAUNCH  OF  LAM3,  lard^, 

ftod  Chervil. 


Carrie  of 

Rabbit, 

mud  Rice. 


A  Ft icaUdteik 

and 
sorrel  saiicek 


Brisket  of 

Beer, 

stewed,  and 

roots. 


pVo  Partridges  I 
and  Savoys. 


■i^irfytai 


Pftte 
Goodeveail« 


FISH, 

removed  with 

A  Loin  of  Veal. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Wild  Duck. 


Spiiiallk  and 
Croutons. 


Stewed 
Cellery, 


Rhenish 
Cream. 


Artichoke 
Bottoms^ 
in  %3iiict^ 


Xobfter* 


Two  Rabbits. 


fEBftUAftY9.  ko.40,  BILL  OF  FARE. 


4ki 


h  '  1 1     I     I 


FIRST   COURSE. 


Carrot  Sotip^ 

removed  with  a  TURKEY  boiled, 

and  Cell  A  f  sauce. 


■I  *■  -^. 


^m^mtt^ 


secoind  course. 


Woodeocks^ 


Riaoles. 


Lamb  Cutletis 

and 
Tomata  sAuee 


Breast  of 

Veal  a  la 

Flamond 


A  Itam 

brais^'d 

spinach.     I  ,.^^,.^^^ 


Two 

boiled,  iK 


Petfel  PA'^sof 
Oysters. 


Le^  of  Fowl 
an  GraHn. 

11  t      UtAt^f*,    III? 


Fish, 

removed  with 

ROAST  BFFF, 


Mtoi 


■kKfci 


Zlagoiit  Melle. 


}3rocoU  and 
thrown  Sauce. 


^Ra^fia 
?'ud:^inff 
d?  Wine- 
sauce. 


Jelly' 
an'  marbre.' 


A  Sotifite 

of  Rice  & 

Apples: 


ji  Capon, 


'    * " 


JVbv  40,  BILL  OF  FARE. 

CARROT  SOUR 

I 
Slice  sik  large  onions  into  a  stew-pan,  about  a 
t^uarter  ofa  pound  of  btitter  four  heads  of  cellery  cut  finojl 
grate  six  larg^  carrotis,  but  only  the  red  part,  (as  thd 
.jellow  is  strung  and  sweet)  put  the  grated  carrot  into 
the  stew-pan  with  the  cellery  and  a  pint  of  8tock,  put 
the  stew-pan  over  the  fire  to  simmer  for  two  hours^ 
then  put  about  two  quarts  of  stock,  and  the  crumb  of 
two  r  rench  rolls ;  let  it  boil  by  the  side  of  the  stove 
for  half  an  hour,  then  rub  it  ihrou^  the  tammy;  put 
it  into  a  small  sonp-pdt  to  keep  hot :  do  not  let  it  boil 
after  it  is  rubbed  through. 


PEBftUAY  10.  No.  41,  fttLli  OF  f  AHE. 


FIRST  COURSE, 


Turnip  Soup^ 

Removed  with  FISH, 


(White  Collops. 


Harricot  of  Beef. 


Loin  of 
Veal. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Snipes* 


Fondues  in 
casM, 


Apple 
Tart. 


ii; 


Sausaj^es  and    I  I  Pork  Chops  and 
Red  Cabbafre.  I  I  Mashed  Potato 


Spinach  &Eg|;8. 


Lobster. 


Small 
Puddinp 


removed  with 
A  Chine  of  MuWm. 


Musbrooras. 


Vnchovy  Toast. 


Partridges* 


I* 


Nt>.  41,   BILL  OF  FARE. 

TURNIP  soup: 

Put  about  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter  into  a  stew^ 
pan,  and  half  a  pint  of  stock,  sisr  or  seven  turnips  cut 
very  thin,  and  six  onions  the  same;  then  set  it  on  the 
stove  to  simmer  gently  for  an  hou^5  then  put  in  twd 
quarts  of  good  stock,  and  let  it  boil  gentlj  for  an  faour^ 
then  rub  it  through  the  tammy,  jmt  it  into  a  small 
soup-pot,  and  set  it  by  the  side  of  the  stove  to  keep 
hot. 

HARRICOT  OF  BEEF. 

Cut  slices  of  beef  from  a  brisket  that  has  beeii' 
stewed,  cut  the  slices  in  the  shape  of  a  cutlet ;  put 
them  into  a  stew-pan,  put  a  few  spoonfuls  of  stocky 
and  a  bit  of  glazfe,  cover  the  stew-pan  over  and  set  it' 
by  theside  of  the  stove  to  get  hot,  when  ready  put  the 
beef  round  the  dish,  and  the  harricot  sauce  in  the 
middle;  the  roots  should  be  piled  up  rather  high. 

SAUSAGES  AND  RED  CABBAGE,  STEWED. 
Sausages  are  generally  had  from  the  poulterers^ 


168 


Virben  in  London  the  Epping  are  reckoned  the  bestw 
{led  cabbage  firsttrimmedbj  cutting  all  the  coarse out<- 
6ide  leaves  off,  then  cut  it  in  quarters,  and  cut  out  the 
stalk ;  then  shred  it  very  fine,  put  about  half  a  pint  of 
good  stock  into  a  stew-pan,  k  large  thick  slice  of  ham^ 
fat  and  lean ;  then  put  in  the  cabbage  and  a  pint  of" 
Rhenisk  wine  <  if  to  be  had,  if  not  about  a  gill  of  vine- 
gar) set  it  on  the  stove  to  stew  for  at  least  three  hours, 
if  the  liquid  be  reduced,  put  a  little  more  stock  and  re- 
duce it  to  a  g^laze:  put  a  little  cayenne  pepper;  then 
fry  the  sausages,  put  the  cabbage  on  the  dish,  and  the 
sausages  on  the  cabbage. 

N.  B.   The  best  way  is  to  boil  the  sausages  in  the 
stock  pot  for  a  few  minutes,  as  it  prevents  bursting. 

FEBRUARY  II.  No.  42,  BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIKST  COURSE. 

Cray  Fish  Soupy 

rembved  vritk 
A  Turkey  roasted. 


Fottlet 
k  la  dudwoe. 


Petit  P&ies  of 
Oysters. 


A  Loin  of 
Pork. 


Matelot 
Eels 


^11 


Scorch  Collops 


Fish, 
Removed  with 

Fillet  of  Veal. 


SEtOJND  COURSE. 


A  Pheasant. 


Asparagus. 


II 


MacaroDi. 


Cederata 
Cream. 


Katiilia 
Pudding. 


Jeil>. 


Omelet   Souffle 


Cardoons,  witii 
snuce. 


mid  Duck. 


No.i2,  BILL  OF  FARE. 

CRAY  FISH  SOUP. 

Pick  the  fish  from  a  hundred  of  cray  fish,  put  the 
fish  between  two  plates  till  wanted,  put  the  dwells  into 


169 


amottar  witli  half  a  pound  of  butter,  and  about  one 
dozen  of  anchovies,  being  first  washed  and  boned ;  iet 
ill  be  well  pounded,  then  put  it  into  a  stew-pan  with 
about  threo  pints  of  good  stock  (if  for  meagre  me  water) 
set  it  on  the  fire  to  boil  for  an  hour,   but  very^slow; 
then  strain  it  through  a  hair  si^ve,  and  put  it  back 
into  the  stew-pan  with  three  piiits  more  of  good  stock, 
and  the  crumb  of  three  French  rolls,  give  it  a  boil  for 
about  ten  minutes,  then  rup  it  throu^^h  the  tammj, 
have  a  little  lobster  spawn  pounded  with  a  bit  of  but- 
ter and  rubbed  through  with  the  soup ;  when  done  put 
it  into  a  small  soup-pot,  and  the  fish  as  well ;  put  it  b^ 
the  side  of  the  stove  to  keep  hot,  but  not  boil ;  taste  it 
to    know  if  it  want  any  seasoning ;    put  in  a  little 
cayenne  pepper. 

FEBRUARY  12.  No.4S.  BILL  OF  FARE. 


Two 

Sweetbreads, 

lanlcd,  glazed, 

and 
sorrel  sauce. 


FIRST  COURSE. 

Soup  a  la  Reint^ 

remoTed  wilh 
A  Turkistf  roasted. 


r 


Jtisolei. 


rilleC  of 
Veal  41a 
Flamond 


Le<  of 
Lambboird 
Loin  fried, 
and 

spinach. 


X 


Ham 
braised, 
glaied, 

and 
irreent. 


SeneUs,  and 
pil|fiant  sauce. 


Fillets  of  Fowl, 

larded,  glazed, 

and 

Affparasrus  peas. 


Fishy 

reinoTed  with 
Sirl'jin  of  Beef. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Two  EaiterUngs. 


Mushrooms 
broiled* 


Escaloped 
O^rsters. 


Apricot 
Tourte. 


Chantillj 
BasXet 


Apple 

and 

Barberry 

Tourte. 


AnchoTy 
Toast 


Stewed  CeUery. 


Snipes. 


IJ'EBRUARY  13.  No4f|,BILL  OF  FARE- 


FIRST  COURSE. 

Soup  Cresset/y 
removed  with 

A   Loin  of  Veat, 


I    SECOND  COURSE. 


A  Capon, 


Tcnde rones  of 
Lamb,  and 
Mushrooms. 


Sni  pes  k  la 
Tartar. 


Ton«nie 

glazed, 

and 

greens. 


A  Sparerlb 
of  Pork. 


I'wo 

Fowls 

boiled,  &. 

celery 

saiTCP. 


Compote  of 
Pigeons. 


Ox  Rumps  and 

savoys. 


Fish^ 

removed  Ttith 

Chine  of  Mutton. 


Piths  auGratin. 


SaUifie,  fried  in 
batter. 


Blanc 
Mange. 


Pastry. 


Jelly. 


Artichoke  Bot- 
toms fried  in 
batter. 


Lobster  an 
Gratin. 


Three  Teal. 


mm 

\ 


FEBRUARY  14.  No.  45,  BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 

Macaroni  Soup^  •« . 

Remoyed  -with  a 

Haunch  of  Lamb  larded^ 

and  Piquant  Sauce. 


II. 


WhiteCollops.il    Petit  P&t^s. 


A  raised 
Pi|reon  Pi^. 


Small. 
MnttOD  Pies 


.11 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Ttpo  Woodcocks, 


Fricasce 
Chicken. 


- 


Fish, 

removed  with 

Roast  Beef. 


Ragout  Melli. 


Asparagus. 


A  Chantilly 
Cake. 


Spinach  and 
Croutons. 


II 


Bawn  with 
aspic  k. 


TvDo  Chickensj 
one  larded. 


171 


No.  45,   BILL  OF  FARE.    ' 

MACARONI  SOUR 

Boil  one  pound  of  Najples  macaroni  in  good  stodc 
until  quite  tender;  put  one  third  of  it  into  a  smalt 
8oup-pot,  and  cover  it  over  until  wanted;  put  more- 
stock  to  the  other  part,  and  boil  it  an  hour  longer; 
then  rub  it  through  the  tammy,  when  it  gets  too  thick 
to  go  through  put  some  cream  that  has  boiled,  and 
rub  the  macaroni  clean  through,  then  put  it  into  the 
soup-pot  that  has  the  macaroni  in  it,  stir  it  up^  then 
grate  half  a  pound  of  Parniasan  cheese  and  put  it  iu 
the  soup ;  it  should  be  rather  thicker  than  soup  a  la 
reine.  Let  it  be  boiling  hot  when  you  put  it  in  the  t  urecn« 

FEBRUAliYlS.  No. 46,  BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSB, 

Vern^icelli  Soupj 
renfOved  with 

yf  Loin  of  Veal. 


mashed  Potatoes 


Pork  Chops  /t  |  )      Bmince  of 

Mutton. 


I  Stewed 
Beef, 


Cutlets  of  Stveet^ 
j    breads,  and 


piquant  sance: 


. 


trafll€s. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


'Snipes. 


Anchovy  Toast. 


Macaroni. 


Apple  Pie. 


ii 


Blaftqaet  of 

Fowl,  and  Escaloped 


remqve^  with 
A  Chide  of 'Mutton* 


Oysters. 


Lobfter. 


^^''IT' 


Hare. 


Jt^o,  46,  BILL  OF  FARE. 

CUTjLETS  OF  SWEETBREADS  AND 
PIQUANT  SAUCE. 

Blanf^  two  l^g^  .throat  breads,  then  cut  them  ia 
slices  the  tbiokue99.  of  lamb  cutlets,  and  finish  them 

^        -     ...    ,2 


TEBRUAIIY15,  No.  47,  BILL  OP  FARE. 


imST  COURSE. 


Soup  a  la  ReifiCj 
Removed    with    F'ISH, 

removed  with  a 
Turkey  (fmi  TrUjSf^s* 


Four  Tame . 

Pfgoons  braised, 

and  Asparagus 

Peas. 


A  Souties  of . 
Fowl  and  mush- 
rooms. 

■  ■    m     Tib  I    '  ■  ^^C^— #M»M 


Petit  Plites  of 
Chtcken&Mam. 


A  Chartreuse. 


Two  ChickenS' 
k  la  reine. 


■♦»•- 


n  >   I*'; 


A  Souties  of 

Hare 
aod.trttfflef. 


r^amb  Cutlets  &j 
Cucumber  sauce 


A  Timball  of 
Pi^recms. 


SECOND  CO U USE. 


A* Pea  Foxcl  larded^ 
rHadved  with' 

j4  Souffh  of  Ginger, 


Jelljr  an  marbri 


Fredeh  Beans. 


1 


Aspick  of 
.    9rawn, 


Macaroni. 


Pressey  re- 
moved with 
Fish, 

removed 
withallaD 

braisrtl^ 
Sla2ed,and 

spinach. 


t  Frame  t 
^  4 


Soap  Saiild 
removed 
with  Fish, 
Removed 
with  a     I 
Rump  of  I 
Beef  4    ' 
i'Espagnole 


Basket  of  Pastr}' 


' 


Raspberry 
Cream. 


Aspamgiis. 


Cold  Fowl 
i  la  dan  be    ' 
ornamented,  aad 
aspick* 


'Ragofit  Metn. 


Wax  Basket  of 
Cray  Fiuh. 


A  Timball  of 
.  Macareni. 


Semels  of  Fnrce 
*  with^piquant 
•auce. 


A  Souties  of 
Mutton  and 
Cucumber. 


Two  Chickens 
k  la  Reine. 


A  Raised  Pie  of 

Mutton  and 

Potatoes. 


i  Three 

Woodcocks 

removed 

with  a    ^ 

Veal 

Kidney  Pie 


IFramet 

Tl     la'*-*     ** 

w  *  •  i  p  ¥  n  I 


Three 
t  Grouse 
rcflMved 

with  a  . 
CniflePie. 


RisoIe» of  Paste. 


A  Souties  of 
Rabbit  and 
Mushrooms. 


fwo  Partridges 
and  saToya. 


A  Tureen  of  Lambs*  Tuilt, 

rtmoved  with  FISH, 

iremoved  with 

Jl  Strioin  of  Beef. 


Wax  Basket  of 
Prawns.  ^ 


RagoAtMdIle 


Cold  Tongtie 
omamc»te<L&e. 


Asparagus. 


Nvyaa  Cream, 


llasket  of  Pastry 


(JauVflower  and 
brown  sauce. 


Afipick  with 
Cray  Fifh. 


Fiench  Beans 
with  beshemcll. 


Orange  Jelly 
an  Marbr^. 


^  Green  Gooie\ ' 

remoTed  wiA 

A  Ratafia  Pjidding. 


m 

No.  47,  BILL  OF  FARE. 

i  A  TUREEN  OF  LAMB'S  TAILS; 

The  lamb's  tails  are  had  firom  the  butcher  readJHr 
sealded,  they  should  be  blanched  off,  then  put  into  a» 
whi(e  braise ;  when  tender  take  them  and  cut  them  in 
pieces  of  about  an  inch  long^,  and  put  them  into  a' 
small  soup- pot  until  wanted;  lay  th«  bottom  of  a 
stew-pan  wtth  lean-  ham,,  cut  up-two  old  fowls  and 
put  them  to  tl^e  ham,  three  or  four  onions,  a  fag^got  of* 
thyme  and  parsley,  and  a  few  blades  of  mace;  put  in 
half  a  pint  of  water ;  set  the  stew-pan  on  the  stove  to 
draw  down  very  slow  for  one  hour,  (be  careful  that  it 
does  not  catch  at  the  bottom)  when  down  put  in  two 
quarts  of  gootjl  stock,^  let  it  boil  for  an  hour,  but  very 
slow,  so'thatiit  dbes  not  waste  the  stock  by  boiling 
fast;  strain  it  off  and  skim  the  fat  off  quite  clean;  put 
a  pint  of^tock  in^astew-^panjCnpt  what  the  fowls  were 
boiled  in)  when  it  boils  put  in  a  jpint  of  asparagus 
peas,  when  done  put  them  to  thei  lambs'  tails,  and 
the  stock  the  fowls  were  boiled  in,  set  the  soup-pot 
by  the  side^^  the  stove  to  boil  ve^ry  slow  forarew 
niinutesy'  raakea  laison  of  fonr  yolks  of  eg^,  and  one 
pint  of  {double  cream  that  has  been  lx>]led,  when 
strained  put  inhiilf  a  pint  of  beshemell,  take  the  soup- 
pot  from  the  fire  and  put  in*  the  laison,  have  a  spoon 
in  ..the  «pup-pot, and  keep  stirring  it  while  pourinj^ 
in  the  ^isoD ;  jput  it  on  the  stove  to  boil,  be 
sure  and  ke^p  stirring  it  while  on  the  fire,  as  soon  as 
ii  comes  to  a  boil  take  it  off  and  put  the  soup-pot  into 
astew-paa  of  hot  water  until  wanted. 

aBMELLS  OP  FARCE  AND  PIQUANT  SAUCE. 

Make  a  truffle  ikrce  as  fallows  :  cut  a  pound  of  veal 

i|  very  fine,  half  a'p^uiid  ofthe  fat  of  ham,  and  a  quar- 

'■  ter  of  a  poiiitd  of  lean,  about  four  ounces  of  marrow. 

all  cut  as  fi<ie  ^s^fce'Aeal;  and  six  fat  livers  first 

Uanched  off>  then^  cut  the  sajooe  as  the  veal;  put  all 

into  a  stbw*pa)0^  s^nd  chopped  traiBe&,  parsley,  shalot,. 

.....'...  13. 


•K4 

©range  thyme,  and  a  little  cftjenne  pepper  and  salt ;  set 
it  on  the  stove  for  a  feiK  irihiutes ;  keep  stirring  it 
about  M'bile  on  the  fire;  when  the  veal  becomes  White 
take  it  from  the  fire  and  put  it  to  cool,  when  cold  put 
it  in  the  mortar,  pound  it  very  fine  and  rub  it  through 
a  hair  sieve  ;  then  make  the  semells  about  the  same 
size  as  veal  semells,  or  about  the  size  of  a  crownfpiece ; 
dip  them  in  egg  and  in  bread  crumbs;  put  clarified 
butter  on  a  souties-pan  and  finish  the  same  as  veal 
semells.  put  them  round  the  dish  and  the  sauce  in  the 
middle. 

A  FOWL  A  LA  DAUBE,  ORNAMENTED 
AND  GARNISHED  WITH  ASPICK. 

Eone  the  fowl  and  fill  it  with  ftirce,  lay  the  bot- 
tom of  a  stew-pan  with  fat  bacon,  and  pnt  in 
half  a  pint  of  stock  and  the  bones  of  the  fowl, 
and  i:ny  other  trimmings  of  poultry,  put  the  fowl 
in  and  cover  it  over  with  bacon  and  paper,  let  it 
simmer  gently  for  an  hour  and  a  half;  then  set  it  to 
eool  in  the  liquor  and  bones,  &c.  when  cold  ornament 
it  with  diiferent  coloured  ikt  as  fancy  and  abilities  en- 
able you ;  put  chopped  aspick  round  the  dish  and  on 
the  breast  of  the  fowl ;  the  aspick  is  made  as  follows  : 
lay  the  bottom  of  a  stew-4)an  or.  soup^pot  with  lean 
ham,  cut  up  a  knuckle  of  veal,  two*  old  fowls,  the 
bones  and  gibleta  of  the  fowl  thai  .was  daubed,  and 
any  othertrimminge  that  are  at  hand,  the  shaeks  that 
are  cut  from  shoulders  or  legs,  of  mutton  which 
are  going  to  be  dressed  are  very  useful  for  the  aspick ; 
put  in  a  dozen  of  onions,  a  faggot  of  thyme,  parsley, 
and  a  little  mace,  two  or  three  heads  of  cellery,  put 
about  four  quarts  of  second  stock  and  set  it  on  the  fire 
to  boil,  when  it  comes  to  a  boil  take  it  ofi^,  and  put  it 
to  the  side  of  the  stove  to  boil  very  slow  for  four  hours. 
It  is  not  req^uisite  to  skim  it,  .as  it  does  not.  matter 
about  its  being  clear ;  when  it  has  boiled  a  sufficient 
time  strain  it  off  and  let  it  stand  until  next  morniii^, 
then  take  the  fat  ofi*  very  clean,  and  put  a  pint  of  it 
into  a  stew-pan^  with  half  a  pound  of  ham  cut  very 


I 


17a 

small,  about  twelve  sbalots,  a  small  single  clove  of 

garlicky  afei¥  tarragon  leaves^  a  few  bay  Jeaves,  two 

onions,  and  ene  head  of  celleiy ;  put  the  stew-pan  on 

the  stove  to  simmer  very  slow  for  ahout  halt' an  hour, 

then  put  all  the  stock  into  a  large  stew*pan  and  strain 

what  you  have  just  boiled  to  it,  be  particular  in  taking 

the  fat  off;  break  twelve  eggs  into  a<bason^  shells  and 

all,  beat  them  up  well,  then  put  them  to  the  aspick ; 

when  melted  add  a  little  tarragon,  elder,,  and  slialot 

vinegar,  whisk  all  up  together  well,  put  it  over  a 

brisk  stove ;  keep  whisking  it  until  it  comes  to  a  boii, 

then  take  it  off  and  set  it  bj  the  side  of  the  stove  to 

boil  slow  for  a  few  minutes ;  then  run  it  through  the- 

jelly  bag  and  clear  it  the  same  as  calves*  feet  jelly. 

N.  B.  If  the  stock  should  not  be  strong  enough  put 
a  little  isinglass  in. 

A  TRUFFLE  PIE  HOT. 

Raise  a  pie  according  to  the  sizeof  the  dish  in  length 
and  breadth,  but  more  than  three  inches  high,  make  a 
truffle  farce  as  directed  in  page  173 ;  fill  the  pie  half 
full  of  the  farce,  then  lay  in  a  pound  of  trumes  that 
have  been  braised  and  peeled,  then  cover  it  over  and 
ornament  it ;  bake  it  m;a  'dow  Qven,  ^when  done'cut 
the  top  off  and  pour  a  glass  of  Madeira,  wine. in,  .put 
the  top  on  again  and  send  it  to  table  as  hot  as  possible ; 
dish  it  on  a  napkin. 

N.  B.  Before  the  pie  is  covered  over  the*  truffles- 
should  be  covered  over  with  slices  of  the  fat  of  ham. 

A  VEAL  KIDNEY  PIE. 

Raise  a  pie  to  match  the  truffle  pie,  and  half  fill  it 
with  truffle  farce;  cut  a  v^al  kidney  in  slices  and 
season  it  well  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  cayenne  pep- 
per, lay  the  kidney  on  the  fiirce  and  a  few  slices  of 
truffles;  cut  them  on  the  kidney,  and  thin  slices  of 
Ae  fat  of  haoi  on  the  truffles ;  cover  it  in  and  finish  the 
same  as  the  truffle  pie,  only  do  not  put  any  wine  in*. 

ii4 


176 

ASPICK  OF  BRA\^N* 

Put  a  ]ittle  aspick  in  the  mould,  so  as  to  cover  the 
bottom,  when  cold  ornament  it  with  different  coloured 
omelets  as  fancy  directs,  then  put  a  little  more  afipick  in^ 
but  be  verj'  careful  how  you  put  it  in,  for  if  not  done 
with  care  it  will  disturb  the  work,  the  best  wa^*  is 
to  have  the  mould  set  on  ice ;  when  cold  put  a  little 
ifiore  in,  then  put  in  the  brawn  cut  in  neat  pieces, 
and  put  a  little  more  aspick  on  the  brawn,  when  quite 
cold  fill  up  the  mould ;  when  wanted  dip  the  mould 
into  milk  warm  water  and  turn  it  out^  garnish  with 
sliced  lemon. 

A  GREEN  GOOSE. 

A  green  goose  will  take  about  twenty  minutes  to 
roast,  the  tire  should  be  verv  quick;  baste  it  well 
with  butter  during  the  time  it  is  at  the  fire ;  just  be« 
lore  it  is  taken  up  flour  and  salt  it,  do  not  take  it  from 
the  fire  until  the  other  part  of  the  second  course  is 
ready  to  leave  the  kitchen,  as  green  goose  should  be 
as  crisp  as  the  rind  of  pork. 

TIMBALL  OF  PIGEONS. 

Put  stewed  pigeons  in  the  timball  instead  of  chicken 
and  liiacar^nL 


FEBRUARY  17.  No.  48.  BILL  OF  FART^T 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Soup  Sante^ 

pemoved  with 
Brisket  of  Beefy 
and  Harricot  Rootg. 


Breast  ef  Lamb, 
(grilled ,  and  cu- 
cumber sauce. 


Frrcasee  of 
Gb'M^en. 


SECOND  COURSE, 


Two  Chickens  roasted* 


Meek  of 

Veal  a  la 

besh^mell. 


.Moreao 

^la  cr^mc. 


Salmie.of 
Ifodid^curMs. 


FlSTly 

lemoved  witb 
A  Chine  of  Mutton* 


Lobster. 

Aipani|;u». 

^ 

Apple  and 
Barberry 

pre. 

. 

Spinach  and 

Stewed  Ovsten 
^     &  Criut^t. 

1 .11  t»IT» . 


Wild  Duck. 


m\     ' 


No.  48,  BILL  OF  FARE. 

STEWED  OYSTERS. 

Blanch  and  beard  half  a  hundred  of  oysters,  put 
about  an  ounce  of  butter  into  a  atew^pan,  when  melt- 
ed put  in  flour  sufficient  to  thicken  as  much  sauce  as  is 
wanted^  then  put  in  half  the  liquor  belonging  to  the 
oysters  and  an  equal  quantity  of  good  stock,  and  half 
a  gill  of  white  wine,  let  it  hoi!  a  few  minutes,  then 
piit  rn  the  oysters  tt>  make  hot  but  notboilj  for  when 
boiled  HMich  they  get  hard  and  shrivel  up. 


1  5 


FEBKUARY  IS,  No.  49,  BILL  OP  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 


While  Vermicelli  Soup^ 

removed  with  a 
F.ILLET  OF  VJiAL. 


Minced  Turkey, 

and  \e%^  and 

back  brailed, 


Broiled  Salmon 

and 

capers. 


A  Leff  of 
Pork  d  la 
boisseau. 


Pigeons  a  la 
craupaudine, 

and 
piquant  sauce. 


Beefsteaks, 
witbShalot. 


FISH, 

removed  wiib  a 

Leg  of  Multon. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Snipes, 


Mnshrooms. 


Picked  Crab. 


Gooseberry 
Pie. 


Fondues, 
in  case§. 


Asparagus. 


Roast  Fowl* 


.  No.  49,  BILL  OF  FARE. 

BROILED  SALMON  AND  CAPERS. 

Cut  tbesalmoui  iuto  slices  about  a  quarter  of  an 
inch  thiek^  (ihe  salmon  should  not  he  jsplit  ttmt  the 
slices  ace  taken  off)  dip  them  in  butter.,  nod  pepper 
and  salt  them  on  both  sides,  fold  tbeniup  in  writing 
paper  that  has  been  well  buttered,  have  a  clear  fire^ 
and  put  them  on  the  gridiron.  VVash  ti  few  capers 
and  uoil  them  in  a  little  stock,  reduce  it  nearly  to  a 
^laze,  tlien  put  a  little  coulis  to  them ;.  when  the 
Salmon  is  done  take  it  out  of  the  papers  and  put  it  on 
tl'.e  dish,  and  the  caper  sauce  oyer  it — add  a  little 
cayenne  pepper. 

GOOSEBERRY  PIE. 

Put  bottled  gooseberries  in  a  dish  with' sugar  and  a 
little  water,  cover  it  over  with  puff  paste. 


T^3SR.\JA1R:Y   V9.  No.  50,  BTLt  OF  FARE: 


I 


¥\U^T    COURSE. 


Soup  a  la  Reine^ 

•    removed  ^wilh  FISH,. 
reinov«*d  with  a 
TURKI'.ir   AND   TRUFFLES. 


SECOND  COUKSE. 


Petit  P^Ltes. 


A.  Ham  braised, 
and  greens. 


Trnderonw  of 

Veal,  and 

mu^rooms. 


A  Filfot  of 
Veal,  roasted. 


Leg  of 

Lamb 

>iled,  loiB 

fried,  and 

spinach. 


t 


•♦-M-M-++ 

■i 

Frame  1, 

+ 
+ 


Two 

Fowls 
k  la  reioe. 


A  Sparerib. 


A  Matelot  of 
Eels. 


A  Rump  of 
Beef  k  la 
Mantua. 


Small  Mutton 
Pies. 


Six  Pigeons, 


Jelly. 


Asparagus. 


A  SaToy  Cake. 


Macaroni. 


Two 
Woodcocks 


Broiled 
Mushrooms. 


Mock  Turtle^ 

removed  with  FISH; 

removed  with  a 

Sirloin  of  Beef, 


Basket  of 
Pastry. 

I  I      m 


Spinach  and 
croutons. 


Blanc 
Mange. 


ji  Pea  Foxcly  larded. 


No,  50,  BILL  OF  FARE. 

PIGEONS  A  LA  CRAUPAUDINE,  AND 

PIQUANT  SAUCE. 

Split  the  pigeons  at  the  belly  and  turn,  tfic  breast 
•rer,  flat  tiiem,  and  take  out  the  breast  bone ;  put 
$bout  fowc  ounces  of  butter  into  a.  stew-pan^  with 


» . 


ISO 

chopped  lliyme,  parsley,  shalots,  and  mushrooms^  and 
pepper  and  salt ;  set  the  stew-pan  over  the  stove  for 
the  butter  to  melt,  put  the  pigeons  on  a  dish,   and 

Eour  the  butter  and  herbs  over  them ;  when  the  butter 
egins  to  get  cold  roll  the  pigeons  in  bread  crumbs, 
and  put  them  on  a  souties-pan  that  has  been  buttered 
with  clarified  butter ;  they  should  not  be  turned  until 
the  under  side  is  of  a  nice  brown,  when  of  a  nice 
brown  on  both  sides,  lay  them  ou  a  clean  cloth  to 
soak  the  butler  from  them  :  dish  them  round  the  dish 
and  the  sauce  in  the  middle.  * 

N.  B.  Six  pigeons  will  make  a  dish ;  they  niajr  be 
broiled  on  the  gridiron — if  done  so  they^  require  gfeat 
attention. 

SOUP  JULIAN,  diferentfrem  page  9S. 

Cut  turnips  and  carrots  about  an  inch  loii^  and 
rounded  oiF  at  the  ends,  and  the  corners  cut  off;  cut 
the  root  part  of  eight  heads  of  cellery  the  same  way, 
and  peel  about  two  dozen  of  button  onions^  (be 
careful  not  to  cut  the  roots  of  the  onions)  put  the 
carrots  in  to  boil  in  best  stock,  when  the  carrots  are 
nearly  done,  then  put  in  the  cellery  and  let  it  boil 
about  ten  minutes,  then  put  in  the  turnips  and 
onions  to  boil  quite  slow  until  they  are  quite  tender; 
then  put  as  much  stock  as  will  fill  the  tureen;  when  it 
comes  to  a  hoU  skim  it  and  put  a  small  lump  of 
sugar  in  it. 


FEBRUARY  SO.  No.  51,  BILL  OF  PARE. 


FlRSli  COURSE. 


removed  with 
LOIN  OF  VRALalaBeshemell. 


Carrie  of 
Rabbit. 


Fricasee  of 
Chicken. 


Brisket 

of  Beef 

a  la 

trembUnc 

and  roots. 


Raised 
Fie. 


A  Leg  of 

Lamb 

and 

barricot 
beans. 


White  CoUops 

and 

mushrooms.. 


Volevent, 

filled  with 

blanquet  of 

Pea  Fowl. 


FISH, 
removed  with  a 

Chine  of  Mutton. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Theo  Diicklmgg. 


Mushrooms  in 
boxes. 


Slewed 
Celleiy, 


8eaKail. 


Artichoke  Bot- 
toms in  sauce. 


Apple 
Ftitters. 


Trifl«. 


Apricot 
Tourte, 


Salsifie 
in  sauce. 


Cauliflower, 
w*th  besheme!!. 


Cardooos, 
in  sauce. 


Spinach 
in  boxes. 


Pigeons. 


No.  51,  BILL  OF  FARE. 

VOLEVENT  OF  a  BLANQUET  of  PEA  FOWL. 

Cut  the  volevent  out  ahd  bake  it;  the  blanquet  is 
is  made  the  same  as  of  any  other  fowl. 

FEBRUARY  21.  No.  52,  BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Mutton  Sf  Broth,  Sf  Roots; 

removed  with  a 
LEG  OF  PORK,  BOILED, 

and  Greens. 


Small  Mutton 
Pics. 


Compoie  of 
Pigeoni. 


Breast  of 
Vf  al  raiTofit 


Mutton 
HaFricot. . 


A  Fowl  h  la 
b^shemel). 


FISH, 
removed  with 

Ribs  of  beef. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


A  Capon. 


Ham  and 

Toast. 


Scolloped 
Oj'sters. 


P'^'y- 1   &.    I  ^«^- 


Lobster 
ai»  Gratin. 


Aeparagus. 


Shoulder  of  Lamb. 


No.  52,  BILL  OF  PARK. 
A  SHOULDER  OF  LAMB 

Will  roast  in  twenty  minutes;  baste  it  with  butter, 
and  flour  and  salt  it  before  it  is  taken  up:  garnish 
with  water  cresses. 

FEBRUARY  22,  No.  53,  BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Soup  Sante, 

remoTed  with 
STEWED  BEEF  and  ROOTS. 


V«al  Oliyes 
and  sauce 
restauret. 


Lamb  Chops 

and 

spinach. 


Nerk  of 
Veal. 


Scorch 
CoUops. 


Broiled  Fowl 
iand  mushrooms. 


FISH, 

remoyed  with  a 

Chine  of  Mutton* 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Four  Pigeons, 


Salsifie,  fried 
in  batter. 


Sea  Kail. 


Apple  Pie, 

with 
custard. 


Eggs  ^  la  trip. 


Macaroni. 


Two  RuUiti. 


No.  53,  BILL  OF  FARE. 

BROILED  FOWL  AND  MUSHROOMS. 

Cut  a  large  fowl  in  quarters,  take  out  the  leg^ 
bones,  put  the  fowl  on  a  lark  spit,  tie  it  on  the 
roasting  spit  and  put  it  down  to  roast,  baste  it  well 
with  butter^  when  it  is  about  half  done  take  it  up  and. 
finish  it  on  the  gridiron^  season  it  with  white  pepper 
and  salt  on  bo^  sides ;  put  the  mushrooms  in  a  stew- 

Ean,  first  put  in  a  slice  of  ham,  about  an  ounce  of 
utter,  and  a  little  pepper  and  salt ;  put  the  stew-pan 
on  the  stove  to  simnier  gently  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour^ 
then  put  in  a  little  fiour,  stir  it  about  with  a  wooden 
8pooD,  put  in  a  little  stock  and  coulis^  put  it  on  to 


I8S 

Iwil  for  a  few  minutes,  squeeze  half  a  lemon  and  put 
iliitle  dust  of  sugar  in;  put  the  sauce  on  the  aish 
and  the  fowl  afterwards.  It  is  a  custom  at  most  inns 
^ly  to  split  the  fowl  down  the  back,  and  broil  it 
entirely  on  a  gridiron  ;  in  my  opinion  it  looks  awk*^ 
ward,  and  the  fowl  is  frequeritlj  burnt» 

PIGEONS  ROASTED. 

Scald  some  parslej,  squeeze  it  and  chop  it  fine,. 
nix  it  with  about  two  ounces  of  cold  butter  and  a 
little  pepper  and  salt ;  when  mixed  put  some  in  each 
pigeon,  skewer  them,  put  them  on  a  lark  spit,  and  tie 
ftem  on  the  roasting  spit ;  w  hen  put  to  the  fire  they 
Aould  be  frequently  basted  with  butter,  flour  and  salt 
them  just  before  they  are  taken  up  ;  put  parsley  and 
botter  on  the  dish,  and  the  pigeons  afterwards. 

^.B.  Put  the  lark  «pit  through  the  side  o{  the 
pigeons,  and  then  they  will  not  want  any  other 
skewer — cross  the  legs* 

FEBRUARY  2*,  No.  54,  BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST   COURSE. 

Soup  a  la  Flamond, 

removed  with 
^KCK  OF   MUrIO^^  braised, 
?;'a^^I^  and  a  Puree  of  PotaUei. 


Two 
*5«?<'eibreads, 
•Aided,  pfazcd, 

and 
wiTcl  lauce. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Capon, 


Lamb  Cutlets 
and  cucumber 

g«tuce. 


A  Tongue 
glazed, 

gai'Disbed, 
and  tnrnips 


Pftit  P4tes. 


Two 

Chickens 

k  la  ieine> 


RoaU  Beef. 


Dreiscd 
Lubbier. 


Asparagus. 


Gateau 
Mincfletir. 


JeHy< 


i^ii. 


•  Pastry. 


I 


Brocoli. 


Stewed  Oysters, 


TiBo  Widgeons. 


mm 


FEBRUARY  24,  Noi  55,  BILL  OF  FiVREL 
'       FIRST  COUiiSE. 


Soup  J 

Tfmowed  with  a 
TURKFTY,  ROASTED. 


Civet  of 
Hare. 


Cutlets  of 
Sweetbreads, 

and 
piqaaot  sauce. 


Fillet  of 
Yeal. 


Capilotade  of 
Fowl. 


Malelot  of 
£eh. 


FISH, 

removed  witlLa. 

Chine  ofMuUonm 


SECOND  COURSE, 


Two  Woodcocks. 


Omelet. 


Macaroni. 


Apple  Pie. 


Aspanifiii. 


Anchovy  Toast. 


Two  Ducklings. 


No.  55,  BILL  OF  FARE^ 

A  CAPILOTADE. 

This  is  made  from  the  remainder  o£  theToast  fowl9>- 
that  are  left  fpom  a  Termer  dinner  or-snppct* ;  cut  the 
fowls  up  in  neat  pieces  the  same  as  for  a  fricasee,  put. 
the  trimmings  into  a  stew-pan  with  a  little  lean  ham,, 
and  a  taggot  of  thj^me  and  parsley  with  a  few  blades^ 
of  mace  tied  up  in  it;  put  about  a  pint  of  stock  into, 
the  stew-pan,  let  it  boil  verj^  slow  for  half  an  hour, 
then  strain  it  off;  put  a  hit  of  butter  into  a  stew-pan, 
when  melted  put  flour  sufficient  to  dry  it  up,  then 
put  the- liquor  the  trimmings  of  the  fowl  Vere  boiled 
m,  pu|  it  on  the  fire  to  boil  for  a  few  minutes,  theki 
strain  it  through  the  tamdaj  or  a  sieve,  return  it  into 
the  stew-pan  *  and  put  the  fowl  in ;  season  it  with  a^ 
little  cayenne^  and  put  in  a  little  lemon  juice. 


FEBRUARY  25.   Ne.  56,  BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRSl'  CQURSB. 

Soup  a  la  Retne, 

rcmoyed  vriih  FISH, 

removed  ivitb  a 

TtfrA-ey  and  Truffles^ 


j  Two  Sweet. 
I  breads  and  As- 
^  paiagus  Peas. 


A  Soaties  of 
PowlA  traffles 


Cray  Fish 
Piiddio}?. 


Fillets  of  Hare 

larded,  and  a 

puree  of  tlie 


Farfridge 

Soup, 

remoTed 

with  Fish, 

remored 

iwithaFiliet 

of  Veal 
k  Ia  daube. 


|F) 


Grenadine 

and 
sorrel  saoce. 


Small  Mutton 
Pies. 


Fillets  of 

Whitings  ^  la 

Hollhndise. 


Two  Chickens 
k  la  reine. 


Fwo  Ducklings, 

boned,  forced, 

glazed  &  turnips 


Fillets  of  Sule 
k  I'ltalieniie. 

Petit  pates  of 
Chicken. 


Lamb^B  Heart 

Sweetbreads, 

larded,  glazed, 

and  an  enince. 


GibletSoap 
k  la  tortue, 

removed  . 
with  Fish, 

removed 
wIthaChinc 

of  Lamb, 
larded,  and 

chenril 
saace. 


Fillets  of  Rabbit 

larded, 
and  mushrooms 


A  Timhall  of 
Pigeons. 


A  Souties  of 

Veal  and 
mushrooQS. 


Two  Partrjdges 
and  savoys. 


Soup  tfressei/yi 

removed  with  FlSi^ 

removed  with  a 

Ham^  braised^  glazed  aujus 


SECOND  COURSE. 


P^a  Fozcl^  hirdedy 

removed  with  a 
Souffle  of  Apples  and  Rice. 


Basket  of 
Pastry. 


Mubtirooms. 


Ragoikt  Melltf. 


Wax  Basket  of 
Prawns. 


Jelly 
an  MarbrA. 


Asparagus. 


Lobster 
an  Gratia, 


A  Leg  of  Lamb, 

.irnamented^and 
aspick  jelly. 


Gronse, 

removed 

with  a 

Fondue. 


:  [Frame  t 


Woodcocks 

removed 

with  a 

Charlotte. 


A  Fowl  k  la 
daobe  and  orna- 
mented, and  ' 
aspick  jelly. 


Atlcts  of 
Oysters. 


Asparagus. 


A  SoufBe  of 
Orange  Cream.  | 


Wax  Basket  of 
Cray  Fish. 


Mushrooms, 
broiled. 


Ragout  of 
Cocki*  combs. 


A  Carmel    . 
Basket  of  Pastry 


A  Green  Goose^ 

removed  with  a 
Ratafia  Pudding, 


186 

No.  56,  BILL  OF  FARE. 

THREE  SWEETBREADS,  AND  ASPARAGUS 

PEAS. 

The  sweetbreads  are  not  to  be  larded  :  blanch  the 
sweetbreads,  then  put  them  in  cold  water;  lay  the 
bottom  of  a  stew-pan  with  fat  bacon,  (first  put  half  a 
pint  of  stock)  put  the  sweetbreads  in  and  cover  them 
over  with  sheets  of  fat  bacon,  and  writing  paper  over 
that ;  put  them  on  the  stove  to  simmer  gentlj  for 
about  half  an  hour ;  when  done  put  them  aside  tiU 
wanted.     Have  some  beshemell  hot ;  take  the  sweet- 
breads up  and  put  them  on  a  plate,  put  some  beshe- 
mell over  them,  cut  French  beans  into  leaves  and 
stalks,   make  a  circle  round  each   sweetbread,  and. 
make  a  sprig   or  any  flower  your  fancy  may  direct 
on  the  top  of  the  sweetbread :    put  the  asparagus 
peas  on  the  dish,  and  the  svveetbreads  afterwards  :: 
garnish  either  with  croutons  or  paste. 

CRAY  FISH  PUDDING. 

Boil  half  a  hundred  crav  fish,   put  a  little  sa!^ 
and  vinegar  in  the  water,  pick  the  cray  fish  and  pjit 
the  fish  into  the  mortar  with  a  quarter  of  a  pound 
of  butter,  six  anchovies,  and  the  spawn  of  a  loDster; 
let  it  be  well  pounded  and  rubbed  through  the  tammy 
or  tammy  sieve,  then  put  it  into  a  bason ;  soak  the 
crumb  of  two  French  rolls  in  cream,  and  put  them  to 
the  fish,  then  break  in   eight   ^gs,    only  one  at  a 
time,  and  mix  that  one  well  up  before  you  break  in 
another :  when  all  is  in  and  well  mixect,  then  put  it 
in  a  mould  that  has   been   buttered   with   clarified 
butter  for  the  purpose ;  put  the  mould  in  a  stew-pan 
that  has  boiling  water  in  it,  the  water  should  only 
come  half  way  up   the   mould,  put  it  on  the  stove 
aud  cover  it  o\'er,  put  lighted  charcoal  on  the  cover, 
be  careful  that  it  does  not  boil  too  fast,  as  the  water 
would  get  into  the  pudding ;  it  will  take  nearly  an 


187 

knir  to  finish  it ;  when  done  take  the  mould  out  of 
tx  stew-pan  a  few  minutes  before  wanted,  by  which 
nans  it  settles  and  turns  out  better;  when  on  the 
£sh  put  red  Italian  sauce  round  the  dish,  but  none  on 
^  pudding.  The  sauce  is  made  as  follows  :  put  as 
■och  beshemell  into  a  stew-pan  as  is  wanted,  pound 
a  little  lobster's  spawn  and  rub  it  through  a  tammy 
sieve  and  put  it  to  the  beshemell,  squeeze  a  little  le- 
aon  juice  and  put  a  little  cayenne  pepper. 

FILLETS  OF  HARE  LARDED,  AND  A 

PUREE  OF  THE  SAME. 

The  fillets  are  cut  the  same  as  fillets  of  rabbit,  and 

neatly  larded  and  ^finished  in  all  respects  the  same 

way.     Make  the  puree  as  follows,  put  the  remaining 

part  of  the  hare  into  a  ^tew-pan  with  a  few  shalots, 

about  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  lean  ham,  a  feggot  of 

thyme,  parsley,  and  marjoram,  a  few  blades  of  mace, 

bauf  a  pint  of  stock,  and  half  a  piiit  of  port  wine  ;  set 

.  the  stew-pau  on  the  ^tove  to  simmer  very  gently  until 

^  the  hare  is  quite  tender,  then  strain  the  liquor  oJSTinto 

a  bason,  pull  all  the  meat  from  the  bones,  and  put  it 

I    into  the  mortar  and  pound  it  jSne  enough  to  go  through 

I    the  tammy,  put  in  .the  lean  ham  as  well  as  the  hare; 

put  some  of  the  liquor  that  it  was  done  in  into  the 

mortar  while  pounding,  h  hen  quite  fine  put  it  to  the 

remainder  of  the  liquor,  mix  it  up  and  rub  it  through 

the  tammy,  and  put  it  in  a  stew-pan  to  make  hot,  put 

the  puree  on  the  dish,  and  the  fillets  afterwards ;  gar- 

nish  with  pa^te. 

CHINE  OF  LAMB  LARDED,  AND  CHERVIL 

SAUCE. 

Cut  the  fat  fiom  the  fillet  of  a  chine  of  Iamb,  and 
lard  it  very  thick  and  strong,  put  it  on  a  lark  spit  and 
tie  it  on  the  roasting  spit,  put  sheets  of  fat  bacon  oyer 
the  larded  part  of  the  lamb,  and  white  writing  paper 
over  all,  tie  it  on,  only  b^  careful  not  to  press  the 
paper  on  the  larded  part^  the  paper  should  be  double^ 


f 


Iffi 


and  thelafiib  roasted  very  slow,  when  done  take  it  off 
and  gla  je  it,put  the  sauce  on  the  dish,and  then  the  Iamb. 

AT  LETS  OF  OYSTERS. 
The  oysters  for  this  purpose  should  be  tl>e  largest 
that  can  be  procured ;  put  the*  oysters  on  to  blanch, 
when  they  come  to  a  boil  then  lieard  theni'  and  put 
them  on  skewers  that  are  for  the  purpose,  do  them  over 
with  egg  on  both  iides,  then  sprrnkle  them  with  pep« 
per  and  salt,  then  put  bread  crumbs  over  them,  then 
drop  some  clarified  buttK  over  them  and  put  theoi  on 
the  gridiron  to  broil,  the  bars  of  the  gridiron  should 
be  rubbed  over  with  fet  bacon  to  hinder  the  oysters  from 
sticking  to  the  bars ;  send  the  oysters  on  the  skewers^ 

RAGOUT  OF  COCKS'  COMBS. 
Blanch  the  combu,  then  put  them  in  a  stew*pan,.aDd 
about  half  a  pint  of  stock,  put  it  on  the  fire  to  boil ; 
when  tender,  and  the  stock  nearljr  reduced  to  a  glaze,- 
put  a  little  sauce  tournay,  give  it  a  bcMl  and  dish  it 
up;  garnish  with  croutons. 

FfiBRUARY  26.  No.  47,  BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Soup  Cresie^y 

RemoTcd  with 

A  Fillet  of  Veal. 


+ 


Pigeons  a  la 
Craupaodiot. 


Wkit«  CoHo|)f. 


Bitoks. 


Neck  of 
Pork, 

rooflted. 


Petit 
P&tes 


Calves*  Feet  and 
Spanish  sauce. 


Mutton  Chops 
plain  broiled, 
&  tomata  sauce. 


Fish, 
remoTed  with 

Roast  Beef. 


SECOND!  COURSE 


Two  Ducklings. 


n 


dnonsand  I  | 


Cardnons 
bro 


Asparagus. 


Ratafia 
Pudding. 


Pastry, 


Brocoli  with 
lauce. 


Beet  Root,  with 
sharp  sauce. 


p«< 


Shoulder  of  Lamb. 


189 

yb.  57,  BILL  OF  FARE. 

DUCKLINGS 

Vill  take  about  fifteen  mihutes  to  roast ;  follow  the 
BnejDethisd  as  roasting;  a  green  goose. 

FEBRUARY  87.  No.  58,  BILL  OF  FARE. 
I  i  FIRST   COURSE.     )    SECOND  COURSE. 


Fowl  and  Rice  Soup^ 
removed  with 
A  Turkey  boiled  Sf  Ousters. 


Petit  Pat^, 


Lamb  Cutlets 

and 
piquant  sau€<^. 


tBcffsuid  {  RiiisedPic. 
Kooti. 


.  I. 


Uam 
braised, 
.  glazed. 


Tao  Chickens^ 

One  larded. 


Stewed  Oysters. 


Spinach  and 
Crovtons. 


■«• 


A   Rice 
Souffle. 


Chantilly 
Basket. 


Gateaa 

Mille. 
fiear. 


( 


f 


*    * 


TraderoBes 

•f  Veal  and 

Trades. 


1 


Fish  Pie. 


Fish, 

removed  widk 

J  Chine  of  Mutton. 


AnchoTy  Toast 


Green  Goose. 


No.  58,   BILL  OF  FARE. 
FISH  PIE  IN  A  DJSH. 


Clean  a  brace  of  tench  and  skin  two  eels,  bone  the 

k  tench  and  eels,  cut  the  eeU.in  pieces  about  two  inches 

\  long,  and  the  sides  of  the  tench  cut  in  two,  put  thera 

I  in  die  dish  intended  for  them,  sca?»on  them  with  pep- 

I  per  and  salt  as  you  lay  them  in  the  dish,  mix  a  few 

I  whole  mushrooms  wlth4he  fish  and  about  six  yolks  of 

I  tggs  boiled  liard,  then  put  the  bones  of  the  tench  and 

ittUintoa  stew-p^n,  and  a*  few  shalots,  a  faggot  of 


•  I 


Ida 

tljjmeand  parsley,  a  few  blades  of  oifice^  half  a  dozen 
anchovies,  and  a  pint  of  stock;  put  it  on  to  boil  for 
half  an  hour,  then  strain  it  and  skim  the  fat  off,  when 
cold  put  about  half  into  the  dish  that  has  the  eeh  and 
tench  in,  put  the  other  half  into  a  stew-pan  to  make 
hot  to  put  in  the  pie  when  baked ;  cover  the  pie  with 
puff  paste:  wh^n  it  is  baked  cut  the  top  off  without 
breaking  it,  pour  the  liquor  from  the  pie  into  a  bason 
to  enable  you  to  skim  the  fat  quite  clean  from  it,  when 
done  return  the  gravy  into  the  pie  and  the  remainder 
that  the  bones  of  the  fish  were  boiled  in ;  put  the 
cover  on  the  pie  and  put  it  on  the  dish. 

N.  B.  The  top  should  be  done  over  with  egg. 

RICE  SOUFFLE. 

Line  a  mould  (to  answer  the  size  of  the  dish)  with 
short  paste,  put  a  piece  of  the  crumb  of  bread  id  keep 
it  from  tailing  while  in  the  oven,  when  done  put  it  to 
cool,  then  put  about  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  Carolina 
rice  on  to  blajich  in  water,  when  it  corner  to  a  boil  take 
it  off  and  strain  the  water  from  it  and  leave  it  in  the 
sieve  a  few  minutes  to  drain,  then  put  it  into  a  stew- 
pan  and  a  pint  of  new  milk,  a  little  cinnamon,  the 
peel  of  a  lemon,  and  a  sufficient  quantity  of  lump 
sugar  to  sweeten  it,  put  it. on  the.  fire  to  boil,  it  re- 
quires to  be  stirred  with  a  spoon  to  prevent  its  stick- 
ing to  the  bottom,  iP  the  milk  should  be  all  soaked 
into  the  rice  before  the  rice  is  qrtite  soft  put  more 
milk  to  it.  When  the  rice. is  boilei!  sufficiently  take 
out  the  lemon  peel  and  the  cinnnmon,  and.  put  about 
two  ounces  of  fresh  butter  in  the  rice,  a  gla&^  of 
brandy,  and  grate  a  little  nutmeg  in,  then  beat  up  the 
whites  of  four  eggs  until  they  become  quite'solifi,  then 
stir  them  in  the  rice,  then  put  the  rice  into  the  paste 
and  sift  about  one  ounce  of  a  pound  of  sugar  in  the 
rice  and  put  it  in  the  oven;  4isu  it  on  a  napkin. 


k 


FEBRUARY  28.  No.  59,  BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 
Soup  Sante, 

Removed  with 

Haunch  of  Lamb  larded^ 

and  Cucumbers. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


BeefCoUops,  \  )'  Capilotade  of 


a  rEspagnole 


■][ 


Fowl. 


ALei^of 

Pork, 

roasted 


Petit  PAtes 


Neck  of 

Veal, 
roasted. 


Pigeons^  roasted. 


Salsifie  fried  in 
batter. 


Omelet  Souffle. 


Harricot  of 
Mutton. 


JACurrieofRab 
bit  and  Rice. 


FISH  removed  with 
Ribs  of  Beef. 


Raup* 

berry 

Cream, 


A  Savoy 
Cake. 


Oran||;e 
Jelly. 


Escaloped 
Oysters. 


Artichokes  Bot- 
toms fried  in 
I        batter. 


fVtld  Dttck. 


No.  59,  BILL  OF  FAKE. 
.      A  LEG  OF  PORK  ROASTED. 
Put  Ihe  pork  on  the  spit  and  score  it,  it  will  take 
two  hours  to  roast,  but  that  depends  on  the  size ;  put 
grayj  in  the  dish  and  then  the  pork. 

N.  B.  Perk  eats  better  to  be  sprinkled  with  salt  two 
CfT  thrfee  dajs  before  wanted. 

FEBRUARY  29.  No.  60,  BILL  OP  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 
A  Tureen  of  Caives^  Feet 

id  Asparagas  Peas,  removed  with 
J  Fillet  of  real,  alaleshenull. 


Pi  tit  Pates  of 
O)  sters. 


Tenderones  of 
Lamb  ik  la  poulet 


A  Tongue 
^azed,  gar- 
nished and 
spinach. 


A  roast 
Turkey. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


A  Capon, 


Dressed  Crab. 


Blanquet  of 

Fowlwi^^ 

mushrooms. 


FISH,  removed  with  a 
CHINE  OF  MUTTON. 


Italian 
Cream. 


Asparagus. 


Foodaci. 


Wild  Duck. 


1 


■*i  ^i^,.^ 


FEBRUARY  24,  Noi  55,  BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COUiiSE. 


Soup^ 

Tfmored  with  a 
TURKFTY,  ROASTED. 


Civet  of 
Hare, 


Cutlets  of 
Sweetbreads, 

and 
piqnaot  tauee. 


Capilotade  of 
Jfowl. 


Maielot  of 
Eels. 


FISH, 

removed  witlLa. 

Chine  ofMuttorim 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Two  Woodcocks, 


Omelet. 


MacaronL 


Apple  Pie. 


A8paia|i». 


Anchovy  Toast. 


I 


jn»o  Ducklings. 


No.  55,  BILL  OF  FARE^ 

A  CAPILOTADE. 

This  is  made  from  the  i^emainder  o£  the^oast  fowl9-- 
that  are  left  from  a  former  dinner  orsuppct* ;  cut  the 
fowls  up  in  neat  pieces  the  same  as  for  a  fricasee,  put. 
the  trimmings  into  a  stew-pan  with  a  little  lean  ham, 
and  a  taggot  of  thjme  and  parsley  with  a  few  bledes^ 
of  mace  tied  up  in  it;  put  about  a  pint  of  stock  into, 
the  stew-pan,  let  it  boil  verj^  slow  for  half  an  hour, . 
then  strain  it  off;  put  a  hit  of  butter  into  a  stew-pan, 
when  melted  put  llour  sufficient  to  dry  it  up,  then 
put  the- liquor  the  trimmings  of  the  fowl  Vere  boiled 
m,  put  it  on  the  fire  to  boil  for  a  few  minutes,  theki 
strain  it  through  the  tamdaj  or  a  sieve,  return  it  into 
the  stew-pan* and  put  the  fowl  in;  season  it  witha« 
little  cayenne^  and  put  in  a  little  lemon  juice. 


FEBRUARY  25.   Ne.  S6,  BILL  OF  FARE. 


FlllSTCOURSfc:. 

Soup  a  la  Reine^ 

rcnoved  with  FISH, 

removed  with  a 

Turkey  and  Truffles, 


Two  Sweet- 
breads and  As- 
paragus Peas. 


A  Sontif  s  of 
Fowl&  truffles 


Cray  Fish 
Pudding. 


Partridge 

8oap, 

removed 

with  Fish, 

removed 

hrithaFiJIet 

of  Veal 
1^  Ia  daube. 


Fillets  of  Hare 

larded,  and  a 

puree  of  the 

tame. 


fwo  UuckltniE^, 

boned,  forced, 

glazed  &  turnips 


Fillets  of  Side 
k  ritalieniie. 

Petit  pates  of 
Chickeo. 


Lamb*s  Heart 

Sweetbreads, 

larded,  i^iazed, 

and  an  enince. 


iFramei 


GibletSoup 
k.  la  tortue, 

removed  . 
with  Fish, 

removed 
f(lthaChinc 

of  Lamb, 
larded,  and 

chervil 
saace. 


Grenadine 

and 
forrel  sauce. 


Small  Mutton 
Piet. 


Fillets  of 

Whitings  ^  la 

HolIhiKlise. 


Two  Chickens 
k  la  reine. 


Fillets  of  Rabbit 

larded^ 
and  mushrooms 


A  Timball  of 
Pigeons. 


A  Souties  of 

Veal  and 
mushrooms. 


Two  Partrjdges 
and  savoys. 


Soup  ijres'seyj' 

removed  with  FlSHr 

removed  with  a 

Hum^  braised  J  glazed  aujus 


SECOND  COURSE. 


P6a  Fozcly  htrdedy 

removed  with  a 
Souffle  of  Applet  and  Rice. 


Basket  of 
Pastry. 


Mubiirooms. 


Ragout  Melld. 


Wax  Basket  of 
Prawns. 


Jelly 
an  MarbrA. 


Asparagus. 


Lobster 
an  Gratin. 


A  Leg  of  Lamb, 

.irnamented,aiid 

aspick  jelly. 


Grouse, 

removed 

with  a 

Fondue. 


Woodcocks 

removed 

with  a 

Charlotte. 


A  Fowl  k  la 
daube  and  orna- 
mented, and  ' 
a.<t pick  jelly. 


Atlcts  of 
Oysters. 


Asparagus. 


A  Souffle  of 
Orange  Cream. 


Wax  Basket  of 
Cray  Fish. 


Mushrooms, 
broiled. 


Ragoillt  of 
Cocki'  combi. 


A  Carmel    . 
Basket  of  Pastry 


A  Green  Goose^ 

removed  with  a 
Ratafia  Pudding. 


1§4 


HASHED  LAMB,  AND  BLADE  BONE 


'VI 


BROILED, 

Gut  the  blade  bone  from  the  shoulder  of  lamK 
v«core  and  pepper  and  salt  it,  and  about  a  quarter  of 
au  hour  before  wanted  put  it  on  the  gridiron  to  grill  ; 
4Ciit  the  other  part  of  the  lamb  into  small  coliops  as 
neat  as  it  will  admit  of;  put  a  little  coulis  into  a  &tew- 
an,  make  it  quite  hot,  put  two  or  three  drops  of  sha- 
ot  vinegar,  a  little  mushroom  ketchup,  give  it  a  boil 
up,  then  put  in  the  lamb,  keep  it  by  the  side  of  the 
stove  to  keep  bot ;  when  wanted  put  the  hash  oa 
^he  dish,  and  the  blade  bone  on  the  hash. 


I 


MARCH  4.    No.  64,  BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Soup  a  Vltalienne^ 
removed  with 

A  Fillet  of  FeaL 


Fricasee  of 

Rabbit  aad 

Onions. 


Risoles. 


l-illet  of 

Pork  and 

Robcr 

sauce. 


A  Roast 
Turkev. 


'■. 


&.ine  of  I 
Liimb. 


» 


Pi  tit  Pales. 


FVicasec  of 
Chickifiand 
Mushiooms. 


Fish^ 
removed  with 

Sirloin  of  Barf. 

■I   ^">  ■  ■   ■ 


SECOND  COURSE. 


A  Capon* 


Cray  Fi*h. 


Asparagus. 


!  Pastry^ 


A. Trifle. 


Jelly. 


-k-i. 


'    Fplna<*h  and 
•  Croftlons. 


Picked  Crab. 


A  Hare, 


i 


»•*' 


MARCH  5.  No.  65,   BILL  OF  FARE. 


A  -— 


FlllST  COURy£. 

removed  with 

A  Pig: 


Compote  of 

PI|;eoos  and 

MusbroQms. 


P(»rk  Choptflfnd 

Mavlied  Jeota- 

loeSk 


\  Raised 
Pie  a  la 
Fran9ois 


SECOND  COURSE, 


Two  Ducklings, 


Asparagus* 


lUi^out  Melld. 


Rump  of 
Beef  a, la 
MaDtua. 


A  Hailed 
Pie  wiih 
Mutton 
and  Po- 
tatoes. 


Veal  and  Ham 

Cutlets  and 
piquant  sauce. 


Veal  OdivM. 


FISH, 
removed  wi^h  a  . 

Chine  of  Mutton. 


Artichoke   Bot. 
tom9  in  Sauce 


Br(»coli. 


Tayo  Rabbits. 


No.  65,  BILL  OF  FARE.  , 

VEAL  AND  HAM  CUTLETS. 
Cut'tlie  flank  part  of  a  fillet  of  veal  dose  from  the 
bone^  trim  the  sKiimy.  part  away,  cut  it  into  cutlets, 
the  size  and  shape  of  lamb  cutlets ;  cut  as  many  slices 
of  ham,  fat  and  lean  just  as  it  happens,  iu  the  samo 
'shape  and  size  as  the  veal,  fry  the  ham  first,  put  .c^oine 
'of  the  fat 'that  comes  from  the  liam  out  of  the  fi-ying- 
pan,  only  leave  a  little  sufficient  to  fry  the  veal  of  a 
nice  brown,  pntthem  round  the  dish,  a  cutlet  of  ham 
between  each  cutlet  o(  veal,  and  the  sauce  in  tho 
tmiddle. 

ItEOOF  LAMB  BOILED,  LOIN  FRIED,  AND 

SPINACH. 
.The -leg -of  lamb  should  be  put  into  a  pan  of 
water  about;  an  hour  before  it  ii?  put  on  to  boil ;  au 
hour  and  a  qnarter  will  be  .suflide^t  time  to  boil  it; 
•cut  the  loin  into  cutlets  and  frv  them  of  a  nice  browii, 
season  them  witli  j)epper  uud  s^ait;  put  the  spinacli  on 
the  dish,  the  laafb  in  the  middle,  and  the  Gut|ets 
■round  the  Igg  :  garnish  with  «anot. 

K  3 


MARCH  6.    No.  66,  BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Soup  Julian^ 

Removed  ivith 

A  BOILED  TURKEY 

and  Cellerv  Sauce. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Tcncieronei  of 
Veal  and  Mush- 
rooms. 


Capilotade  of 
Duckling. 


A   rim- 
ball  of 
Maca- 
roui  ani 
Chicken. 


Tongue 

glazed  and 

ornament. 

ed,  &c. 


VolevcBt 


Crvet  of  Hare. 


A  Soaties  of 
Mutton  and  Cu- 
cumber. 


Removed  with 

Ribs  of  Beef  roasted. 


Pigeons. 


Spinach  and 
Oroutoiit. 


Brocoli. 


Gooie- 
berry 
Tart. 


Jelly. 


Damson 
Tart. 


Sea  Kail. 


Beet  Root  and 
Vinegar  sa  ic  *. 


Ribs  of  Lamb, 


A  CAPILOTADE  OF  DUCKLING. 

Follow  the  same  method  as  the  capilotade  of  fowl. 

MARCH  7.  No.  67,  BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIKST  COURSE. 


Soup  Cressey^ 

removed  yrith 

Beef  Tremblanc  and  Roots, 


Sweetbreads  I  I  A  fVicaiee  of 
larded,  and  As>|  1  Chicken,  and 
.paragus  Peas.   {  I     Mttshroont 


SECOND  COURSE. 


A  Gruinea  Fozcl  larded. 


Small 
Raised 
Mutton 

Pies. 


MacAroiii. 


Broiled  Mush- 
rooms. 


White  Collops. 


Neck  a(  Lamb 

larded,  glazed, 

^nd  Sorrel  sauce 


FISH, 

Removed  with  a 

Chine  of  Mutton. 


4  ■    «    ■ 


Jelly. 


Escaloped 
Ojfstcrs. 


T^l 


I  I  H  ■■  I  II      ■(      I       I        l| 


Sea  Kail. 


wad  Duck. 


m     till  •^mmm»mm 


MARCH  8.  No.  68,  BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST   COUHSK. 


Soup  Sante, 

Removed  with  a     ^ 
II  AM  braised,  glazed,  and  Greens. 


ITarricot  of 
Beef, 


I  Lamb  Cutlets, 
&  pi  quant  sauce. 


liaised 

Pigeon 

Pie. 


Two 

Chickens 

a  la  reine. 


Raised 
Pie  i  la 
FrHn9ois 


Petit  P4tis. 


Scorch  Collops. 


Fish, 

RemoTed  with 

Hoast  Beef^ 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Tzoo   Ducklings. 


Rice  Fritters, 


Pastry. 


Spinach  and 
Croutois. 


Aspif  k 
Brawn. 


Wax 

Basket  of 
Prawns. 


Jelly 
Marbre. 


Asparagus. 


Pastry. 


Macaroni. 


Apple  Fritters. 


A  Capon. 


MARCH  9.  No.  69;  BILL  OF  FARE. 


I 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Vermicelli  Sovipy 

removed  with  a  Le^  of  Lamb  boiled, 

Loin  fried,  and  Spinach. 


Veal  and  Ham 
Cutlets^  and 
I  piquant  sauce. 


Volevent  of 
Oysters. 


Meek  of 
Veal  a  la 

beshemell. 


SECOND  COURSE. 

Pigeons* 


Asparagus. 


Fondues. 


Fillet  of  Pork 
Si  Rober  sauce* 


Fishy 

remored  with 

Chine  of  Mutton. 


bdba 


Tactleti, 


Dariolei. 


Tartlets. 


Salsifie  fried  in 
batter. 


Brocoli. 


Ribs  of  Lamh. 


&3 


MAKCH  W.^o.  70,  BILL  OF  FARE. 


llli8T  CO  U  USE. 
Soup  Sant6, 

Removeck  %viih 
J  Fillet  of  Fed. 


Houts  Saiij^faux 

with 

Fiiuco  hacb'iF. 

Beef  Steaks. 

Fifth  Pie. 

\ 

A  Capilotade 
of  Chicken. 

Two  Breasts  of 

Lamb, 

braised,  glazed, 

and  (spinach. 

FfSH, 

removed  with 

Roast  iieef. 


•^'•ammfn^^m 


. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Ducklings^ 


Artichoke 
Bottoms, 
in  SHUce. 


Mushrooms^ 
in  boxes. 


Damson 
I*ie. 


Rhenish 
Cream. 


Apple 
Pic. 


Lobster 
au  Gratin. 


Brocoli, 
in  saoce. 


Guinea  Fowly  larded. 


jy^o.  70,  BILL  OF  FARE. 

BOUTS  SANGEAUX,  WITH  SAUCE  HACHIS, 

Bone  three  scrags  of  mutton  and  put  them  in  warm 
water  for  an  hour  to  draw  the  blooa  from  them,  then 
])ut  them  in  a  8(ew-pan  of  cold  water  and  put  them  on 
the  fire  ;  wlien  they  come  to  a  boil  take  them  off  and 
wash  them  iri  several  waters;  put  them  in  a  white 
braise  and  set  them  on  the  fire  to  simmer  until  quite 
tender  :  when  done  take  them  up,  trim  them,  and  put 
them  on  the  dii^h,  and  the  sauce  over  them. 

TWO  BREASTS  OF  LAMB,  BRAISED,  AND 

SPINACH. 

Cut  the  chine  bones  from  the  breasts  of  lamb,  skin 
tlicu),  and  \n\i  them  on  to  blanch ;  when  they  come 
to  a  boil  take  them  out  and  wash  them  in  several 
waters,  then  put  them  in  a  stew-pan  with  a  little  stock, 
cover  them  over  with  bacon,  and  papei:  over  that  j 
I}ut  the  stew-pan  on  the  fire  to  simjai^r.  slow.  XLotil 


19« 


tender,  so  as  the  bones  will  draw  (hit,  then  take  them 
up  and  glaze  them  :  put  the  spinach  ou-^e  dish  and 
then  the  lamb :  garnish  with  carrot  and  turnip  roses. 

VOLJSVENT  OF  OYStl^US. 

Cut  the  Yolevent  out  and  bake  it.  Put  a  pint  and 
a  half  of  oysters  oa  to  blanch,  when  they  come  to  a 
boil  take  them  off  and  strain  the  liquor  into  a  basou; 
put  the  oysters  into  cold  water,  wash  them  and  beard 
them,  lay  them. on  a  clean  cloth  to  dry  them.  Put  a 
bit  of  butter  into  a  stew-pan,  when  melted  put  in  flour 
sufficient  to  dry  it  up,  then  put  in  about  half  the 
oyster  liquor,  a  little  good  stock,  and  a  little  cream  ^ 
put  it  on  to  boil,  keep  stirring  it  while  on  the  fire^  let 
it  boil  a  few  minutes,  put  a  few  drops  of  anchovy 
essence,  a  few  drops  of  shalot  vinegar,  and  a  littU 
pepper  and  salt  if  wanted;  then  put  in  the  oysters 
to  make  hot :  put  the  volevent  on  the  dish  and  fill  it 
with  the  oysters. 

MARCH  II,  No.  71,  BILL  OF  FARE. 


FlKST  COURSE. 


Italian  Soup^ 

Removed  with 

A  TURKEY,  ROAST. 


Pork  Chops 

and  mashed 

potatoes. 


»  Fr leasee  of 
Rabbits 
and  onions. 


Neck  of 

Mutton 

boiled,  and 

turnips. 


White  CoUops 

and 
mushrooms. 


Lamb's  Feet 

and 

ispara9:u8  Peas. 


^B> 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Pigeons. 


Brocoli  and 
white  sauce. 


Oysters 
in  boxes. 


FISH, 
removed  tvith 

Sirloin  of  Beef, 


Apple 
Pull's. 


*  I  ■■  >  *■ 


Jelly 


Apricot 
Tai-Uets. 


Spinach, 
in  boxes. 


Stewed 
CcHery, 


Sh^ul^^r  xqfLamb* 


an 


MARCH  12.  No.  72,  BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE- 


Soup  and  BouUtie^ 

removed  with  a 

A  FILLET  OF  VEAL. 


SECOND  COURSE, 


Two  Chickens^  one  larded. 


Poulard  k  la 
Duchesse. 


Tenderones  of 

y eaU  and 

mushrooms. 


Macaroni. 


Cardoons. 


Lamb^s 

Head  h  la 

royal. 


Raspberry 
Orcam, 
in  caps. 


Apple  Pie 


Custards 
in  cups. 


Jdatelot  of 
Eels. 


Blanquet  of 
Turkey. 


Jerusalem 
Artichokes. 


Rag;o(k. 


FISH, 
RemoTed  with  Bl 

Chin&  of  Mutton^, 


Ilare^ 


MARCH  13.  No.  73,  BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 


.  Sou^  a  la  Reine, 
removed  with  a 
Leg  of  Lamb  boiled,  Loin  fried,. 
and^Spinaeh. 


A  Currie  of 
Rabbit. 


Petit  Pites  of 

Chicken  and 

Ham. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Snipes*. 


A  Ham« 
braised, 

and 
Greens. 


A  Raised 
Pie,  with 
Uiacaroni. 


Three 
Chickens 

^la     tl 
reine. 


Crokets. 


A  Casserole  of 

Rice 

and  GKblets. 


FISH, 

removed  with 

lioast  Beef. 


Mushrooms. 


Brocoli.. 


Orange 
Jelly. 


Chantilly 
Basket. 


I 


Ccderata 
Cream. 


Salsifie  in  sauce. 


Eggs  ^  la  Trip. 


Two  Ducklings. 


MARCH  14.  No,  74,.  BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Soup  Cresseyj 

removed  with 

STKWED  BEEF  AND  ROOTS. 


Sweetbreads 

larded  and 

sorrel  saoce. 


Mutton  Outlets 

and 
piquant  sauce. 


A  Sparer!  b 
of  Pork. 


Shoulder  of 

Lamb,  minced 

and  broiled,. 


Broiled  Fowl 

and 
mushrooms. 


FISH, 

removed  with 

A  Loin  of  VeaL 


SECOND  COURSE. 


F^ur  Pigeons^* 


Macaroni. 


Sea  Kail. 


Apple  Pie. 


CardooDs, 
witb'sauoe:. 


(^'Stcrs,  fried 
in  batter. 


Two  Rabbits. 


K  5 


MARCH  IS.NbV  76,  BI£L  OF'FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Sot4p  a  la  Reine^ 

Re«Dov<>d  with  FISH, 

removed  witb  a 

HAUNCH  OF  LAMB,  larded, 
and  Chervil  Sauce. 


Petit  PAtes  of 
S^  eel  i)  read. 


A  AVesit|>halia 

Ham,  brnised, 

Siod  sauce. 


Sonties  of 

Hare, 

and  a  puree. 


Two  Fowls 
a  }a  reine. 


A  Raised 
Pie,  with 
Macaroni. 


+  Frame  t 


A  Rsiised 

Pigeon 

Pie. 


A  Ne<  k  of 

VriA 

a  la  b.'sheffiell. 


Suutic's  of  Fowl 

iind 

musli  looms. 


A  Small  Rwrnp 
of  l>ef  ^  la 
daubc,  and 

Spanish  onions. 


Small  Raised 
Mutton  Pies. 


Spring  Soup^ 

removed  with  M8H, 
remov  "d  w  hh 

Ifomt  Beef. 


*">    9 


.1. 


Two  Ducklings^ 


Jelly 
Marbr^k 


Spinach. 


RagoAt. 


Basket  of 
Pastry. 


BrocoH. 


Sal&iftp  fried  in 
batter. 


Shoulder 

of 

Lamb. 


J  Frame  t 


Fondues. 


Stewed  Cellerv 


Basket  of 
Pastry, 


A  Fricasee 
of  E|5gs. 


Se.i  ICail. 


Blnnc 
Mange; 


J  Cap 


on* 


MARCH  16.  No.  76,  BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Vermicelli  Sovp^ 

Removed  with  a 
FILLET  OF  VEAL, 


Fricasee  of 
Chicken. 


Pork  Chops  and 
iMashed  Potatoes 


Beef  Steak 
Pie. 


Ox  Rumps 
and  Savoys. 


Moreau  k  la 
CrSme. 


Guinea  Fowl^  larded. 


Fish 

removed  with 
A  Chine  of  Muff  on .  

MARCH   17.  No.  77,  BILL  OF  FARE. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Tiso  Rahbiir^ 


Omelet 
Souffle. 


Fondues  in 
cases. 


Oysters 
in  boxes. 


Dressed 
Crab. 


FIRST  COURSE. 


spring  Soupy 

removed  with 

A    LEG  OF   LAMB,  roasted. 


Fillets  of  Sal- 
mon, &  capers 


Capilotade  of 
Babbit. 


Petit  P&tes 


Harricot  of 
Mutton. 


A  Civet  of 
Hare. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


ud  Capon, 


Fried  Eggs. 


Bfocolt, 


A  pricot 
Twurte. 


FISH, 
removed  with  a 

Ltoin  of  f'^eai. 


Stewed  Cellrry. 


Stewed  Oysters, 


Duckling. 


FKIED  EGGS. 

Put  clarified  butter  in  the  pan,  break  the  e«gs  in 
one  at  a  time,  put  a  little  pe])per  and  salt  on  each 
egg,  and  turn  them  half  over ;  take  them  up  with  a 
small  slice  and  lav  them  neat  on  the  dish. 

N.  B.  The  eggs  require  to  be  quite  new,  and  they 
should  be  fried  of  a  nice  brown,  but  not  hard. 


MARCH  18.  No.  78,  BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Mock  Turtle^ 

Removed  with 
A  TURKEY,  ROASTED. 


Crokets. 


A  Daubed  Fowl 

and 

mushrooms. 


Stowed 

Bcrf  and 

roots. 


A  Timball 

of 
Macaroni. 


Ham, 

braised, 

& spinach 


A  Fricaudeau 
gla/ed,  and 
sorrel  sauce. 


Lamh  Cutlets, 

and 
cucumber  saace, 


FISH, 
Removed  witb 

lioast  Beef, 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Teal. 


Cardoons, 
in  sauce. 


Asparagus. 


Pastry. 


A  Trifle. 


Pastry. 


Brocoli. 


Salsifie. 


Green  G'oose^ 


MARCH  19.  No.  79,  BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Soup  Cresseyy 

removed  with 

A  HAUNCH  OF  MUTTON. 


Two  boiled 

Chickeos  and 

tarragon. 


Two  Sweet- 
breads, larded, 
and  an  emiuce. 


Tongue 

glazed,  and 

Greens. 


Breast  of  fiamb, 

rcllfd  &  forced. 

Cutlets  larded, 

and  Borrel  sauce. 


Compote  of 
Pigeons. 


FISH, 

removed  with 

A  Frit  J  of  Veal, 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Guinea  Fouty  larded. 


Brocoli. 


Orange  Jelly. 


Spinach  and 
croutons. 


A  Hare. 


205 

A  HAUNCH  OF  MUTTON 
Should  be  cut  the  same  shape  as  a  hauoch  of  venison^ 
and  follow  the  same  directions  for  roasting:  it  will 
tufie  about  three  hours  to  roast. 

MARCH  20.  No.  80,  BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Rice  Soiipy 

Removed  with  a 

TURKEY  AND  CHKSNUTS. 


Veal  Olives. 


A.  Raised  Pie, 
with  Mutton 
and  potatoes. 


'  Breast  of 

Veal, 

raorout. 


Petit  Pd468. 


Fillet  of 
Mutton,  and 
cunumbers. 


FISH,. 

removed  with 

Ribs  »/  Beef, 


SECOND  COURSE. 


fViid  Duck. 


Brocoli  with, 
sauce.. 


Artichoke 

Bottoms 

in  sauce. 


Apple  Pie, 

with 

custard. 


Ragojkt  MelI6. 


Spinach  and 
croutons. 


Copon. 


MARCH  21.  No.  81,  BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Soup  and  B^illiey 

Removed  with 
A    FILLET  OF  VRAL. 


Poulard  a  la 
Duchesse. 


Beef  Steak 
Pie. 


Currie  of 
Rabbit. 


Lamb  Cutlets 

and 
'  piquant  sauce. 


FISH, 
Removed  with  a 

Chine  of  Mutton, 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Foularij  with  Eggs. 


Oysters, 
fried.. 


Sea  Kail. 


Salsifie. 


Broiled 
Mushrooms. 


Pigeons. 


306 
iVb.  81,  BILL  OF  FARE: 

POULARD  WITH  EGGS 

Is  a  young  fat  pullet  that  has  not  begun  to  lay 
her  eggs :  the  eggs  are  left  in,  or  rather  returned  in 
after  being  drawn:  observe  the  same  directions  ag 
for  roasting  a  capon. 

MARCH  22.  No.  82,  BILL  OF  FARE. 


\ 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Soup  Sante, 

removed  with 
A  HAM,  BRAISED,  GLAZED, 

Aud  Greens. 


Lamb's  Head 
a  la  ro^al. 


Two 

Sweet  b  read  i 
a  la  reine,  and 
asparagus  peas. 


Meek  of 

Mutton 

braised^&a 

puree  of 

potatoes. 


Boiled  Fowl, 

.  -and 
Oyster  sauce. 


Calve's  Feet 
au  Gratin. 


FISH, 
Removed  wHha 

Chump,  o/  Beef. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Guinea  Fowly  larded. 


Anchovy 
Toast. 

A»panig;a«. 

Cbantilly 
Cake. 

1          *                 ^  " 

Spinach  and 
croutons. 

Dressed 

Lobster. 

Shoulder  of  Lamh. 


No.  82,  BILL  OF  FARE. 

CALVES'  FEET  AU  GRATIN,  AND  SPANISH 

SAUCE. 
Dip  the  calves'  feet  in  egs:,  and  roll  there  in  bread 
crumbs  that  have  chopped  shalot,  thyme,  parsley,  and 
pepper  and  salt  mixed  with  them ;  do  them  twice 
over  and  fry  them  of  a  nice  brown ;  put  them  round 
the  diiih  and  the  sauce  in  the  middle. 


MARCH  2S.  No.  83^  BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Pea  Soup^ 

remove^  witK  a 

NECK  of  VEALA  laHeshemeJI. 


Breatot'Lamb, 

grilled,  and 

piquant  sauce. 


Fillets  of  Sole 
k  ritalienne. 


Ulauquet  of 

Fowl,  and 

mustirooms. 


Beef 
CoUops. 


FISH, 

removed  with  a 
Chine  of  Mutton, 


SlJCOND  COURSE. 


Pisteons, 


Dressed 
Crab. 


Brocoli, 
with  sauce: 


Orange  Blanc 

Tourte         Mange. 


Raspberry 
Tourte. 


Sea  Kail. 


Eimalade  of 
Smelts. 


Tw0  Chicfcens^  one  larded. 


<•  * 


Ne.-83,  BILL  OF  FARE. 

HIMALADE  QF  SMELTS. 

Turn  the~5Tirclts  round  aiid  put  theQi  ii)  a  stew-paiil 
that  will  just  hold  tliem,  put  half  a  puit  of  water^ 
a.  gilLof  vi4)egar,  »  giU  of  sherry  wine,  ^  few  blades 
oX  loace^  about  a  do^en  shalots,  a  little  whole  white 
pepper,  a  li|lt|e  salt,  and  six  anchovies,  first  being 
washed ;  put  them  on  the  fire  to  boil  verj'  slow  for 
aboutnteiTniinutes,  then  take  them  off  and  put  theni 
hy  to  get  coM ;  leiave  tkem  in  the  stew-pan,  for  if  they 
be  moved  white  |iot  they  are  apt  to  be  broke:  when 
quite  cold  dish  them,  and  garnisli  with  parsley  or 
chopped  aspiok. 


MARCH  2*.  No.  84,  BILL  OF  FARE. 


I 


FIRST  COURSE.  . 
Soup  a  la  Reincj 

remoTed  with  a 

LEG  OF  LAMB  boiled,  LOIN 

fried,  and  Spinach. 


Compote  of 
Pigeons. 


Mutton  Cutlets 

with 
tomata  sauce. 


Brisket  of 

Beef, 

stewed,  and 

roots. 


Scorch  Collops. 


Roulards  of 

Salmon,  and 

capers. 


FISH, 
removed  with 

A  Loin  of  VeaL 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Poulard.. 


Brocoli. 


Lobster 
au  Gratin. 


Appte  t\t. 


Macaroni. 


Fried  Eggs. 


Two  Ducklings. 


MARCH  2b.  No.  85,  BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 

Soup  a  la  Flamond^ 

removed  With  a 

TURKEY,  ROAST. 


Fillets  of 
Turbo  t. 


Rabbit  ^  la 

duchesse,  and 

mushrooms. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


THvo 

Chickens 

ilareine 


Haunch  of 
Mutton. 


A  small 

Ham, 

braised, 

glazed^ 

&c. 


Lamb  Cutlets,. 

and 
piquant  sauce. 


Matelot 

of 

Tench,  &c. 


FISH, 

removed  with 
Roast  Beef. 


A  Guinea  Fowl^  larded. 


Sea  Kail. 


Stewed  Oysten. 


Raspberry. 
Tourte.*" 


Blane 
Mange. 


Apricot 
Tourte. 


Dressed 
Lobster. 


Spina<jh 
and  croutons. 


Ribs  of  Lamb. 


MARCH  96.  No.  86,  BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE- 


Soup  Cressetfj 

removed  with 
A   SUCKING  PIG. 


Hashed  Beef 

and 
broiled  bones. 


Broiled  Fowl 

and 
mushrooms. 


A  Fillet  of 
Veal. 


Pork  Cutlets 

and 
rober  sauce. 


Scorch  Collops, 


Fish^ 

removed  with 
A  Chine  of  Mutton. 


SECOND  COURSE. 

Two  Dud^iings, 


Omelet. 


Spinach 

and 
croutons. 


A  Souffle 
ofApples 
and  rice. 


Jelly. 


Ratafia 
Puddin;;. 


Anchovy 
Toast. 


Escaloped 
Oysters. 


Capon, 


No.  86,  BILL  OF  FARE. 

HASHED  BEEF  AND  BROILED  BONES. 

Cut  the  fillet  from  the  inside  of  a  cold  sirloin,  if 
to  be  had,  otherwise  cut  some  of  the  other  part ;  it 
should  be  cut  the  same  as  beef  collops,  the  bones 
should  be  about  four  inches  long;  with  some  meat  en^ 
but  not  a  great  deal ;  score  them  and  pepper  and  salt 
them,  about  five  minutes  before  wanted  put  them  on 
the  gridiron  over  a  clear  fire  to  broil :  put  the  hash 
on  the  dish  first,  and  the  bones  on  the  top.  Make  the 
sauce  for  the  beef  as  follows  i — put  the  trimmings  of 
the  beef  and  bones  into  a  stew-pan,  with  two  large 
onions  sliced,  a  little  vinegar,  and  about  a  pint  of 

food  stock ;  put  it  on  the  stove  to  boil  slow  for  an 
our,  then  strain  it  off  and  skim  the  fat  from  it :  put 
a  bit  of  butter  into  a  stew-pan,  when  melted  put  in 
flour  suflScient  to  dry  up  the  butter,  and  the  liquor 
the  bones,  &;c.  were  boiled  in,  and  keep  stirring  it 
until  it  boils,  then  strain  it  tjhrough  a  hair  sieve  and 
return  it  into  the  stew-pan,  put  walnut  ketchup  in, 
and  two  or  three  girkins  sliced,  then  the  meat ;  make 
it  hot,  but  not  boil. 


MARCH  27.   No.  87.  BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 

Soup  Julian^ 
removed  with  . 
Beef  Tremblanc  and  Roots 


Lambs'  Feet 

and 

asparagus  peas. 


SemcUs  of  Veal, 

and 
piquant  sauce. 


Neck. of 
Mutton, 
braised, 
glazed,  and 
endive. 


Petit  PAt^s 

of  Chicken 

and  Ham. 


Fricasee  of 
Chicken  and 
mushrooms,. 


removed  with 
A  Loin  of  Veal. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Two  Easterlings^ 


Eggs  k  la  trip. 


SeaKaik 


Pastry, 


Orange 
Jelly. 


Savoy 
Cafce. 


Brocoli, 
with  sauce* 


Rago&t  Mell^, 


Five  Pigeons. 


MARCH  98.    Ko»  88,  BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  qOUHSE.  . 

Soup  a  la  Reine^ 

removed  with  FISH, 

removed  with  a 

FILLET  *»f  VEAL  4  la  Flamond. 


Sw<^brettddt 
larded,  glazed, 
and  asEmince. 


Le|^  id  Lamb  . 
add 


«— va»i~«iiiriH 


Laiab  Cutlets 

glazed,  and 

sauced  larrine. 


■■*■  ■■ 


FiUeUofPork 
and 


A  H«m, 
braised, 
glazed, 

and 
greens. 


iFraine  J 


Tnrkcy 

aid 
cbetniiU. 


i*  rileC  Of  'flrlntOQ 

and  a  puree 
of  potatoes. 


Tenderones  of 
Veal,  glazed, 

and 
Italian  saace. 


Stewed  Beef 

and 
tomata  satiee. 


Three  Breasts 

of  Chicken, 

larded,  and 

I  asparagus  peas, 


I. 


Mock  Turtle^ 
removed  with  FISH, 

removed  with  a 
Chine  of  Mutt 071, 


SECOND  COURSE, 

■T 

Grcf^H  'Goos€^ 


Cedemta 
.Cream. 


Broculi  in  sauce. 


Basket  of 
Pastry, 


w 


Jelly 
att  Marbr6« 


Asparagus. 


Wax  Basket  of 
Prawns. 


Wax  Basket  of 
Cray  Fish. 


French  Beans. 


Orange  Souffle 


Basket  of 
Pastry. 


Mushrooms. 


BJanc  Mange. 


A  Capon. 


No.  88,  BILL  OF  FARE. 

LAMB  CUTLETS  GLAZED,  AND  SAUCE 

A  LA  REINE. 

« 

Cut  the  cutlets  from  the  neck,  scrape  the  bones 
verj  cles^Q,  mid  have  them  all  of  the  same  laDgth; 


213 


pnt  some  bright  eoloured  glaze  on  a  souties-pan, 
ivhen  melted  and  spread  all  over  the  pan,  lay  the 
cutlets  on ;  about  ten  minutes  before  dishmg  time  put 
the  souties-pan  on  the  stove  ;  when  done  on  one  side 
then  turn  them  and  leave  them  on  a  slow  stove  to 
simmer  for  a  few  minutes ;  when  readj  put  then 
round  the  dish  and  the  sauce  in  the  middle. 

MARCH  29,  No.  89,  BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 


White  Vermicelli  Soup^ 
removed  with 

A  L»in  of  Feal* 


Two  Chickeni 
k  la  reine. 


Petit  Pki6B, 


Stewed 

Beef  and 

roots. 


A  Raised 

Pie,  with  a 

Neat's 

Tongue. 


A  Fillet ! 
of  Pork 
&  rober 

gance. 


Risoles. 


) 


Duckling, 

boned,  forced, 

and  turnips. 


FISH, 
remored  with  a 

Chine  of  Mutton^ 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Capon. 


Saisifie,  in 
bimra  saace. 


Ham  and 


Haspberry 
Tuurte. 


teToy 
Cake. 


Apple 
Pie. 


Fondues 
meases. 


Beet  root,  with 
vinegar  sauce. 


Green  Goose. 


No.  89,  BILL  OF  FARE. 

A  RAISED  PIE  WITH  A  TONGUE. 

Raise  a  pie  as  nearly  the  shape  of  a  tongue  as  yoa 
can,  lay  some  good  farce  at  the  bottom  of  the  pie,  thea 
cut  a  tongue  that  has  been  boiled  into  dices,  and  the 
root  the  same^  lay  it  round  the  pie,  a  slice  of  root 
between  each  slice  of  tongue,  put  farce  in  the  middle, 
cover  the  pie  over  and  finish  it  as  all  other  raised  pies. 
When  baked  cut  the  top  off,  and  pour  the  fet  clean 
off,  and  put  in  Spanish  sauce ;  put  a  glass  ^Madeira 
in  the  sauce  before  you  put  it  in  thepiev 


MARCH  30.  No.  90,  BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Soup  Sant4y 

Remored  -with  'a. 
Fillet  of  Veal. 


Pig^eons  a  la 
Gcanpaiidine. 


Harricot  of 
Mutton. 


Raised  Pie, 

A  la  Fran- 

9ois. 


Ox  Rmnpsand    I    *,*..«*.. 
Cabbie.         '    P<^t'tPAtw. 


FISH,  remoTed  with  a 
CHINE  OF  MUTTON. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Two  ChickenSj 

Ooe  larded. 


AnchoTy  Toast 


Macaroni. 


A  Souffle 
of  Rice. 


Jelly, 


Apricot, 
Tartlets. 


Asparagus 


ni" 


Dressed  Crab. 


Two  Rabbits* 


■■«■• 


MARCH  31.  No.  91,  BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Soup  a  la  Reiney 

remoTed  with 

^  Leg  of  Lamb  boiled^ 
Loin  fried,  and  Spinach. 


Fricasee  of 

Chicken,  and 

Sweetbread 

larded. 


Small  Mutton 
Fies. 


Neck  of 

Mutton 

braized,  & 

a  puree  of 

potatoes. 


Calves  Feetau 

Gratin,  and 
Spanish  sauce^ 


Souties  of  Veal, 
and  cucumbers. 


Fish, 

removed  with 

A  Loin  of  Veah 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Pigeons* 


Ham  and  Eggs. 


Asparagus. 


Brocoli. 


Ragout  MeUi. 


Guinea  fowL 


i*A. 


216 

Bnttl  neeflj  clone,  tlien  strain  the  prater  from  tfaem^ 
and  cover  tiiem  quite  close ;  set  them  by  the  side  of 
the  fire  and  the  steam  will  finish  them,  then  put  them 
on  the  dish,  and  pour  beshemell  over  them :  at  another 
time  put  them  in  a  napkin. 

APRIL  4.  No.  95,  BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Soup  Julian, 

reraoTed  Tvitb 
A  HAM  braised^  glaied,  and 
_  Spinach. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Sweetbreads 

larded,  glazed, 

and  Asparagus 

peas. 


Mutton  Cutlets 
&  tomata  sauce. 


Two 
Chickens 
ii  la  reine. 


Beef  Kidney 
&  rayigot  sauce. 


Breast  of  Lamb, 

rolled,  cutlets 

larded,  glazed, 

&  sorrel  sauce. 


Fish, 

removed  with  a 
Chine  of  Mutton, 


A  Capon* 


French  Beans. 


Plovers'  E|^. 


New  Potatoes. 


Mushrooms. 


Pigeons, 


No.  34,  BILL  OF  FARE. 

BEEF  KIDNEY. 

Cut  the  kidney  in  neat  slices,  (about  the  size  of  a 
semell  of  veal)  put  them  in  warm  water  to  soak  for 
two  hours,  and  change  the  water  two  or  three  times, 
then  take  the  kidney  out  of  the  water  and  put  it  on  a 
clean  cloth  to  dry  the  water  and  juice  from  it,  then 
put  clarified  butter  in  the  fryingpan,  put  the  kidnies 
m  and  fry  them  of  a  nice  brown;  season  them  witk 


avr 


-Willi  pepper  and  salt;  put  them  romnd  the  dah.  and  ravi- 
gott  aaaie  id  the-raidaie. 

APRIL  5.    No.  96.    BILL  OF  FARE-. 


I 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Removed  with 

Stewed  Beef  and  Kootsl 


iVlAiiced  Lainbi 
&  Blade  Bone 
broiled. 


'  '        -       -     I 


••i»^* 


■^  ■<■ 


Le^  of  Lamb  and 
kaxicot  Boans. 

■: ■■<  i  ■ 


iMU 


6i     I  t» 


I— ^1— »— ^     r      I  t»i. 
Beef  SMiak 
Pi«. 


SECOND  COURSE. 

■ 

Two  DucktingSm 


Removed  witlj* 

A  Loin  oft  Veal. 


AflfMragnr. 


XiiiiiisDnr' 
Pie. 


and  Toast. 


Tzso  KabbiU. 


No.  g6-  POACHED  EGGS  AND  TOAST, 

Make  a  toast  and  butter  it,  and  cut  it  in  round  pieces 
tbe  size  of  the  poached  egg ;  poach  the  eggs  and  put 
Uiei»  oo  thetoast.       -  ©or"* 


318 


APRIL  6.    No.  97.    BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Mock  Turtle^ 

Removed  with 

A  Haunch  of  Lamb 

larded,  aad  Cucumber  Sauce. 


A  Fowl  H  la 
Beshrnieil. 


Beef  Steak 
Stewed,  and 
Mushrooms. 


Fillet  ot 
Ve«l. 


Fillets  of  MuttoH 
md  Mushrooms. 


Casserole  of  Rice 
with  Rabbit. 


Fishy 
Removed  with 

A  Chine  of  Mutton. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Guinea  Fowl  larded. 


Fondues. 


Asparagat. 


Cederata 
Cream. 


Cbaotillie 
fiasket. 


Jcllj. 


Brocoli. 


Small  Pudding 
and  Wiae 

Saucek 


Green  Goose. 


No.  97.    STEWED  BEEF  STEAKS. 

The  steaks  jhould  be  cut  from  the  prime  part  of  the 
rump^  and  nut  too  large^  as  for  broiling  ;  put  a  little  stock 
in  a  ste\v-pan>  and  then  the  beef  steaks  ;  season  them  with 
a  litde  sait  and  Ci^yenne  pepper^  about  eight  shalots^  a 
fagot  of  thyme  and  parsley^  and  a  few  blades  of  mace 
tied  up  in  the  fagot;  cover  the  steaks  over  with  fat  bacon^ 
and  white  paper  over  the  bacon :  put  the  cover  on,  and 
put  the  stew-pan  over  a  slow  stove  to  simmer  gently  for  an 
hour^  then  strain  the  liquor  from  the  steaks ;  skim  the  fat 
from  it ;  reduce  it  nearly  to  a  glaze  ;  then  put  mushrooms  in 
that  have  been  stewed  and  ready  for  table ;  take  the  steaks 
tip^  lay  them  round  the  disb^and  put  the  mushrooms  in  the 
middle. 


3id 


APRIL  7.    No.  98.    BILL  OF  FARE. 


V, 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Soup  a  la  ReinCj 

.Rejiio.ved  with 
A  Turkey^  boiled^ 

And  0^»ter  uud  Cellery  Sauce. 


Muttoo  and 

Potaloe  Pie, 

raised. 


Cut  If- ts  of 
Veal  and  Ham. 


A  West- 
phalia 
Hum 

braised, 

^lazedt& 
Spiuach. 


Raised  Beef 
Steak  Pie. 


A  Chine 
of  Lamb 
aiid  Cu* 
cumber 
Sauce. 


Scorch 
Cuilops. 


Vole  vent  with 

Chicken&Sweet- 

bread. 


Removed  with 

A  Sirloin  of  Beef. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Six  Pigeons* 


Lobtler 
aa  Gratin. 


Macaroni* 


Apricot 
Tourte. 


Rice 
Fritters. 


Spanish 
Fritters. 


A5paragiit. 


Artictioke  Bot- 
toms fried  in 
Bafter. 


Guinea  Fowly  larded. 


No.  98.    A  VOLEVENT  WITH  CHICKEN  AND 

SWEET-BREAD. 

Bake  a  volevent  to  the  size  of  the  dish ;  put  a  fricassee 
of  chicken,  and  a  throat  sweetbread  cut  in  slices,  in  with 
it ;  the  fricassee  is  made  from  a  cold  chicken,  either  boiled 
or  roasted,  left  from  a  former  dinner  or  supper :  if  the 
chicken  has  bpen  roasted,  pull  the  skin  off. 


L  £ 


1S29 


APRII.  9.    No.  99.    BILL  OF  FARE. 

r   •  ,      •    t  >    I  I  t  •       If 


FIRST  COURSE. 


I  Soup  Julieny 

J  Faielo£  Veal. 


Blanque^  pf . 
Fowl  and  Cu- 


I 


■  J?«tit?P&t€s  of      Aruihovy  Toast. 


Oysters, 


SECOND  COURSE. 


1 


A-  Capotu 


k  *  f  ■«   » • 


..b.;. 


■  Stewed,  glazed, 

and  Tomato 

Sauce. 


»«^>-9t9W!- 


Spiimcb'and 
Crovtons. 


Tend^nmerof 
-     LaiAb.-Ill*^- 


JFishy 
Bttik>^€!d  with 

GMn^  of  MuUnn. 


PancakeSk 


.*~^ 


AsparaguSi 


ilm^li 


«  • 

Broiled  Mush- 
rooms. 


Shoulder  of  Lamb* 


APRIL  9.    No.  100.    BILL  QF  FARE. 

SECOND  COUilSE. 


,  M    .     •  •     . 


■^-      '  '   '  * 


FIRST  COURSE. 
Soup  a  la  Reiney 

Removed  with 

(     \- jf.TurlcGf^rdaxU 


\Soutie8ofVeal 
Hill  Cucanibers. 


Lam  b%*  Head 
aia  Ruj^al. 


iXeikol  Mutlon 

bt.;ivf'',&:aPur^e 

.J  Poratoes, 


Two  Chickens^  one  larded. 


Alt  Omelet 


FfencB'Bfeana. 


A  Fowl  a  fa 
'-eshtiDel'. 


Poik  Cntl<n», 
&  RoJ.er  ^(\nr<' 


Rib.^  of  Beef. 


Apple  Pie. 


Cauliflov'er 
wifh  Sauce; 


New  Potatoes. 
ill' a  Napftm. 


Two  Rabbits. 


jSKRXL  rOi    iNo.J01.    BILL  OF  ^AilE. 


■^•^•*lPW*M»"*«Be»»«»«*w**i 


Sou o  a-lth&amond^ 

K^naovQi^  with 

wrf  Zcg  of  Lnmb  ioiled, 

iioinfriedy  ,i^nd~Spinuch, 


f  Iftgr.  ,qa^^«. 


'    » (  » 


">*»^t 


Pooletala 


V  •»■ 


.■1    I 


! 


Two  Sweet- 
l^r^ds  larded,  ; 
glaxed,  Slid  Sor 
rellqauce. 


Sigepn  I^. 


FilJetof  Pork 
glazed,  and  Ro- 


Tenderones  of 
Veal  and  Musli- 
I'o^ia. 


t , 


Fish, 

Removed  with 


I^ECONP  COURSE. 


'W       »  l»f 


larded. 


^^s.a  l.aTrip. 


Brocoli. 


Cheesecakes. 


iipiiiftdi  «nd 

CCOIIIODS. 


■^"•■•i»"»«»i^F*< 


iiSsbtf  0;f  Lamb* 


1 


No.  101.    RIBS  OF  LAMB. 

Cm  off  the  scrags  and  saw  off  the  chine  bones  of  the 
neck  and  breast ;  crack  the  middle  of  the  Ribs  so  as  they 
will  part  when  carved  (for  this  reason  a  cook  should  be  very 
particular  in  those  things^  so  as  to  make  what  joint  he 
sends  to  table  as  easy  as  possible  to  carve) ;  put  skewers 
the  cross  ways>  and  put  the  spit  under  the  skewers ;  hnste 
it  well ;  it  will  take  about  half  an  hour  to  roast;  baste  it 
with  butter  a  few  minutes  before  takea  up,  then  flour  and 
salt  it ;  after  basting  it  put  gravy  in  the  dish  and  then  the 
lamb^  garnish  with  water*  cresses* 


l3 


S2d 


APRIL  11;    Nd.  102.    BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Spring  Soupf 

.  Removed  wiiii ' 

A  Fillet  of  Veal^  roasted. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


i*.*- 


Two  Ducklings. 


FricasMe  of 

Clucken, 


Lnmb  Cutlets 

find  Cucumber 

Sauce. 


Ragout  Me)16 


Brocoli. 


* 

Petit  P^i68. 

Sonties  of 

Beef  Harricot. 

Sweetbread  & 

Mash  rooms. 

Jelly. 


New  Potatoes. 


1: 


Fishy 

'  Removed  with 
A  Chine  of  Mutton. 


Mushrooms. 


A  Fowly  roa$k4.  * 


J"     I 


i^m-mmtm^^m^-^mfm^' 


•  s 


293 
APRIL  le.    No.  I0f3.   BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Soidp  SantS^ 

Kerooved  wilk  FISH, 

Removed  witli  a  HAM, 

braised,  glazed,  and 

SPRING  CABBAGE. 


Fillets  of  Sal- 
moB  and  Ca« 
pers. 


A  Capon  with 
Trafflei. 


Petit  P&tes. 


Neck  of  Veal 
a  la  Buheiuell. 


Raised 
Pie  with 
Pigeons. 


I  FRAME.  } 


Raised 
Pie  will 
Macaroni 


Stewed  Beef  & 
T«niata  Sauce. 


Lamb  Cutlets 

glaxed,  and  As- 

paragos  Peas. 


Two  Ducklings 

forced,  and 

Tornipt. 


Fillets  of  Soles 
a  la  Italienne. 


L 


Mock  Turtle^ 

Removed  with  FISH, 
Removed  with 
A  CHINE  OF  MUTTON. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Green  Goose. 


A  Savoy 
Cake. 


Brocoli. 


Tartlets. 


Wax  Basket 
of  Prawns. 


Asparagus. 


Mushroom  Frit- 
ters, 


Pigeons. 


*•*' 


'* 


1   FRAMB.    \ 


Two 
Rabbits. 


Rice  Fritters. 


French  Beans. 


Wax  Biisket  of 
Craj  Fish. 


Raspberry  peu 
d'Araoiir. 


Spinach. 


Chaniilly 
Bastket.^ 


Two.  Guinea  Fowlsy 
one  larded. 


No.  103.    MUSHROOM  FRITTERS; 

Make  a  batter  the  same  a»  for  pancake8> .  only  consider?- 
abl J  thicker  (the  mould  is  to  be  had  at  Mr*.  Btibrs^  of 
St.  Martin's-Iane) ;  have  some  lard  hot  in  a. stew-pan^  and 
clarified  butter  in  a. tea-cup^  nearly  cold;  brush  the  mould 


«ver  with  jcbrifi^ti  biitttrj^  theii  dip  the  moi^d  in  the  batter 
andj)ut  it  ifnmediately  into  the  hotjard;  take  it  out  .as 
soon  as  the  ifritter  is  brown^  put  it  on  v^bke  J^itc^a  paper^ 
to  soak  the  fat  froin  it^  nli  the  hollow  part  witib  cus«- 
,tard  made  as  before  directed  for  trifle^  in  page  S7;  9ift  fin« 
{Sngar  over  xhem,  and  hold  tJlie  salamander  over  th^m  t<^ 
Utaze  them ;  di^  them  on  a  napkin* 

PEU  D'AMOURS, 

Are  cut  ciut  of  puff  paste,  in  what  s^l^ipe  yon  ihink 
prop€r  ^  put  them  on  a  baling  sheet;  bru^h  rhenfi  over 
•with  white  of  Qgg  ;  sift  a  little  tine  sugar  ov^r  ^th&m  ;  b^k^ 
theui  in  a  quick  oven  ;  ^.hcn  done,  put  t|iem  on  Mrhite 
(kitclieti  papery  when  cold  put  different  sweetmeats  o|i 
(them,  di^h  them  in  the  j^^e  of  a  pyramid,  -aud  ^ip  qauior 
jBiel  s.ugar  o^fes  44iem. 


APmh  IS.    No.  10^.    BfLL  OF  FARE 


FIIIST  iCOURSE. 


JS^  Tremhlc^nc  aftd  Roots. 


\      ( 


Pigeqiis-a  la 


Fricpssee  .of 
Cliicken, 


Le^  of  Lamb 

iitHISf. 


Ptiit  Pat6s. 


Rrmeve^  with 
A  Loin  of  VeaL 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Qr^mGaose. 


firocoli 
wiih  Sauec^. 


*— •■^^^nv^vi^i^'^^ 


Dcejaed  Crab. 


Apple  Pie  aud 
Custatd. 


Spinach  and 
Croatou. 


Tno  RaiMis. 


2JJ« 


APJBLIL  li.    !No.  JOi.    BILL  OF  FARE. 


Ft RST  CaURSE. 


Saup  a  ifi  Rsin^.y 

'Remqved  with  a 

Turkey  rqaste^  and^esnvtsl 


White  CuIIops 
aud  Mushrooms. 


J^Iutt.qn  Cut- 
jeU  and 


HAlkls  of 

laxdcul,  .ami 
\iu3bropjn0. 


^  JLoin  iif . 

Veal  a  ^ 

Bei:.hciUfJI. 


iFrajme.^ 


Fillet  Af 
flecf-i  la 
fispagiHn. 


A  Han™   .' 

br^is^d  aa( 
glazed.    ' 


XtQk  of  Muttoi> 
J»rdp.d,,j|nd  * 
GfiVPtJPcftS. 


"Tt 


_Catiej8.i>f    ! 

Vcjil  f^nd  Haoiyfi) 

T'  'jngxa^ajce . } 


Flints  i^(  Q.a^bii 

larded,  aiid    ' 

Aspari^gys^'agi 

■      -.  ■ '  ■ — 9 


SECON©<X)URSE. 


Txao  DuckHngf, 


L 


Tenderoijs* 
of  L^ipb 
a  Ih  Poulet. 


Soup  $antS^ 

Removed  jfriih  FISH, 
Rcmoite^  Willi  a 


,]9r9Coli. 


.Asparagus. 


JeMj. 


fwo  Svreet- 
Breads 
roasted. 


III   » 


Apricot 
'J'biirte. 


^-our 
Pigeons. 


rrr 


-r— f- 


Jlaspberry 
■  Cream* 


Freijioh 

Deans.         1 


4 


•I  .    >  >« 


fUienbh  Cream! 

I 


New 
Pbtatces. 


A  Cupon» 


.J.I1..J'  lit  m      r 


1 


'Blanch  th€)n|i  oiF,  Mriien  cold  ^gg  them  ,  ^pvor^  9ud  tl^fi 
|put  /IS  iQaiiy  [j^nead  ci^u^il^s  a/s  wHi  9ttck  to  lUiem',  put  4heqi 
tOD  a  'lark,  spit,  then  tie  them  on  a  spit  and  jbast^  Uiem  }%  it}i 
{butter;  'W&eii.iloiie^  j^ut  toaat  on  the  dish,, cut  rounds  an(l 
|gravy  ai^d  buUfir ..OMJ^r  ihetqjast;  put  the«we«t<^|^€ads  op 

jthe  UHieO 

J..4, 


H-, 


3^6 
APRIL  15.    No.  106.    BILL  OF  FARE. 


«rta 


-r*- 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Giblet  Soupy 

KeQ)ov««l  4vUh  FISH, 

Removed  with  a 

Loin  of  Veal  a  la  BeshemelL 


Lamb's  Heart; 

Svreet-Breads 

|Mrded>and 

Asparagua  Peas. 


Teii4«rones  oH 

Veal,  and 
Tomata  Saoce. 


WestplialiaHam. 


Soutiea  of  Wbit- 

iogs  and 
Sanre  Italienne. 


Petit  Fades  of 
Sweet  Bread. 


Fillet  of  Beef 
fardedAod 
glazed,,  and 
Spanish  Sauce. 


JurfUBb'sFeet  , 

and 
White  Sance. 


Faietof  Veal 
il  Ja  Danbe. 


Souties  of  Fowl 

and 

Cucumber. 


TimbaJl  of  Chick- 
en  and  Macaroni 


Soap  Jutien, 
removed  witK* 
Fishy  removed 
yvitb  a  Haunch 

of  Lamb 

larded,  and 

Cuoimber 

Sance. 


I  Frame.  I 


Cbarirense  of 
Roots  and 
Sausages. 


Soutie  of  Rabbit 
and  Sauce 
&  la  Reine. 


Fillet  of  Mutton 
and  Harrigot 
Beans. 


Calve's  £ars 

forced^  and 
Italian  Sance. 


Fricondeaa 

and  Sorrel 

Saoo(% 


I 


Soup  Santa. 

removed  with 

Pith,  removtd 

with  a  Ramp 

of  Beef  A  U 

Mairtaa. 


SECOND  COURSE.      j 


Pea  Fozply  larded* 


Baaket  of 
Pastry. 


French  Beans. 


Dressed  Lobsters 


BAgodt  Mclle. 


Gateau 

Milleflenr. 


Cederata  Cream 


Wax  Basket  of 
Prawns. 


Asparagus. 


Omelet. 


Mushrooms. 


A  Souffle  of 
Rice  and  Apple* 


Jelljr  sa  Marbre. 


Two 

Ducklings. 


Risoles. 


Sonties  of  Soles. 


Orange  Jelly. 


Trifle. 


Three  Chickens 
&  la  Reine. 


Lamb  Cutlets 

glazed,  &  Wbitf 

Italian  Sauce. 


Fillets  of  Fowl 
larded  &  glaaed, 
and  Mushrooms. 


Soup  a  la  Flamond^ 
Removed  with  FISH,  removed 

with  a 

Chine  of  Mutton, 


Mushrooms. 


Snail  Omelets. 


Asparagus; 


A  Wax  Basket 
of  Cray* fish.     | 


Rhenish  Cream. 


Savoy  Cake. 


• 


Ragodt  Mell6. 


Dressed  Crab. 


French  Beans. 


Basket  of 
Pastry. 


A  Grekn  Goose, 


'  ^00  r  Removes, 

Ratifie  Pudding,  a  F9fu|iif| 

Ginger  £>affle, 

Fondue. 


•»^^ 


237: 


Hfo.  106.    A  CHARTREUSE  OF   ROOTS  AND 
SAUSAGES,  AND  A  RAGOUT  MILLK 


Boil  about  six  large  carrots,  when  cold  cut  them  in  slices 
about.a  quarter  of  an  inoh  tliick,  then  cut  them  out  with  a 
scolloped  cutterj;  then  boil  two  pounds  of  Epping  sausages, 
prick  them  with  a  fork  to  hinder  them  from  bursting.;  when 
tfaey  are  done  and  <)uite  cold,  cut  them  in  slices  the  same  th  ick* 
ness  as  the  carrots.     Sheet  a  plain  mould  with  fat  bacon ; 
put  carrots  round  the  edge  of  the  bottom  of  the  mould, 
then  sausages  inside  the.  carrot,  and  so  on  until  the  bottom 
is   quite  covered;  then  lay  the  sides,  beginning  at  the 
bottom  and  come  up  to  the  top,  not  straight  but  oblong, 
first  a  line,  of  carrot  then  a  line  of  sausages,  until  the  sides 
are  covered ;.  then  brush  the  inside  over  with  egg,  to  bind 
the  carrot  and  sausages  together;   put'  a  thin    layer  of 
force-meat  at  the  bottom  of  the  mould  and  the  same  round 
thct  Sides ;  put  in  the  ragoiit,  and  some  pieces  of  cauli-- 
ilow^er  and  lieads  of  asparagus  into  the  mould,  and  cover 
it  with  paste,  and  egg  it  well  over ;  put  the  mould  into  a 
stew-pan  of  hot  water,  let  the  water  come,  half  wayojp  the 
mould  ;*  put  the  stew-pan  in  the  oven  ;.  it  will  take  one 
lK)ur;.when  wanted  turn  it  out, .and  take  the  bacon  off;, 
soake  up  the  fat  that  comes  from  the  chartreuse  with  a  ^ 
clean  cloth  ;  put  a  littU  sauce  sk  la  reine  round  the  char-  - 
treuse ;  garnish  the  top  with  roses  cutfrom  carrots,  turnip|,  ^ 
and  turnip  radishes*. . 

SMALL  OMELETSv 

Mi:i(  the  omelets  the^  same  as  page  71;  fry  them  the.: 
size  of  poached  eggs ;  .put  them. round  the  dish,  and  sauce.. 
'Tburney  in  the  middle. 


APRIL  16-    No.  107.    BILL  OF  FARE, 


K 


f 


Spring  Souffj 

Kemored  with 

A.  Leg  of  Pork  a  la  Boisseau* 


Laiuh  Cutlets 


I 


Btanqaet 
of 


>\'eck  of  Veai: 


F'fUetsof 
j       Whitings. 


Petit  I*4tcs. 


Removed  with 
Jiihs  of  Beef. 


SECOND  COURSE. 
T\do  Ducklings* 


jklftcmmii. 


Ne\r 
Potdtoes. 


:    iGpo^becjr    , 


JKie. 


Brocoli. 


4 


PigjgauM* 


APRIL  17.    No.  IQ8.  BILL  Of  FAllg. 


' ' » »  III  I 


FIRST  COURSE. 


VermicelU  Soupy 

BeiuoTeH  with 

ji  hsgof  Lamb  boUed^ 
Loin  ,ff^A  and'SptMiGh* 


rrt-r 


SECOND  COUHSE. 


Fillet  of  Pmk 

tti»d 
Rbbf  r  Sauce. 


Fricassee  of 
*  Qiickeiv  Breast 
jaril^jl. 


Raised 
Pigeon  Pie.- 


^iHfu  Eawlj  iflnifid. 


Bj«9flt. 


Lobster 
aa  Gralio. 


Sweetpbrea(|s 
Uffled.  and 
5J  Sorr^ifiama^r.  '. 


Ftshy 

Removed  with 

A  I^in  of  Keal. 


«*9 


APRIL  18.    No.  aqg.    BILL  <DF  FARE. 

This  Dinner  Tvas  for  the  OQicers.of  the  Incls/o^d  ^undredVioIfinteerf, 
Horse  and  FoqU  and  tl^e  neighbouring  (lentry ;  the  Marqais  of  Buck- 
ioj^ham  being  their  Colonel ;  who  ve viewed  the^n  in  G(>flle]4  Fark,  and 
presented  the£;i  viiiXi  two  stands  of  fcolours. 

FIRST  TABI4E,  FOR  FfFTY. 


"TVoT^eCkl  or 

veauxdeFrize,apcl 
Cucumber  Sauce 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Mock  Turtlf, 
j^  Loifipf  y^eal. 


CrocbMs. 


I 


Chump  of  \eal 
braisf^di  glazed, 
and  Frendj'Beans 


MatelotorTeiici>. 


Fricondeau 
glazed" 
and  Sorrel  fiavoe. 


Jlam  bcaisf  d» 

glaztd, 
aod  Qreen^. 


Petit  Pfttte. 


Ox  Rumps 
.and  ftoott. 


A  Pike  baked,  &d. 


K?ck  of^Muttpn 
laided  and^luzed, 
ai>d-Carn)t  l-eas. 


SiJOOND.C'OURiE. 
ji  Gr^ejfi  Goose, 


Blanc  M^nge. 


Duicli  Sallad. 


I^cenrh  Beans. 


•A  Sucking 
Pi<5. 


Three  Fowls 
_^llo»led,"and"Oyster 
and,Celieiy 
Sauce. 


J4ockJXut4te, 

Removed  with 

THsh,  removed 

with  a  raised 

FieJiJa 

Franvoisc. 


§  Frame  j 
I  » 


•Mock-Ttwtle, 

H^iUiovtd  wiih 

Fi'li,  removed 

witli  a  raised 

Pigeons. 


-G«o9eb««py  -Pie. 


iRag()&t  Meli^. 


Bi'vcoli. 

■  I  «    « 


Lobster. 


TT 


Jelly. 


^Plovers*  Eja*' 


Aspjftrsygus. 


Apple  1  le. 


Mttskreooisbroiled 

■■  1.1  ii 


Kew  Potatoes. 


T 


Mushroom  Fritjev^ 

.■■■■♦   T 


TT 


P '  "Cray-flsh. 


6ice  Fjri^is.g|%zed 


Two 

Ilab\}>t8» 


Sijc 
Pigeons. 


ThKe  fowls 

boiled,  and  Sauce 

i  ta  Rein**. 


Fillet  d!  Veal. 


AFilletofBeef 
larded,  glased,' 
and  Spanish  Sauce. 


-Four  large  Perch* 
4>laip  JooUed. 


Sheep's  Bumps 
JCidue^a. 


m 


Pf  (it  Pftt^. 


Kump  of 

B.ef 

it  la~ Mantua. 


A  Turkey  Rou«t 


9 


Shouliler  of  l/unb 

Jarded,  j[lazed, 

and  Sorrell  Sauce. 


-Matelot  of  trarp  [ 
.    .aodEeb. 


Bout  iioigneaux 
Sanceusiclns.  ■ 


Kisoics. 


-f 

Mock  T^riie^  I 

SciE«Tcd  trHh  FISH,  removed  with    ' 
A  Sirloin  0/  Beef. 

I         ■»■  ■  ■  ■■      ■«  fk 


KiceFritters  glazed 


Prawns. 


M  usbroomsbroiled 

ti   la  I  TT  ■  ■■   rm^ifWl  TTf"ll 


'K««r  Potatoes. 


^^"m^'^ 


:j'.'j   t: 


^jpjfieV'ie, 


AsparagiK. 


PlovjgsVEpgs. 


Orange  Jelly. 
■  4  *.. 


{Wu»iiri>om  Frjtter.- 


Piclwd  Ccab. 


JUgnJlVMelliS. 


Wliit©  »ajicr. 


■JaSflSfcbtfiy-gie. 


French  BeaiisI 


£)utcb«aUaH. 


^oSR" 


isti  Cream 


7;4ffo(f^Viri,eafywU 
^  larded. 


iido 


SECOND  TABLE,  FOR  THIRTY; 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Mock  Turtle^ 

Removed  with  FLSH, 
Removed  with 

A  Chine  of  Mutton, 


Pigeon  Pie. 


Ham  glazed 
and  Greenit. 


Stewed  Carp. 


Volevent. 


Lamb  Cutlets 

and  Cucumber 

Sauce. 


Three  boiled 

Fowls  and 

Ceflerjr. 


Pike  baked. 


Patit  Pat^s. 


Round  of 

Beef  and 

Greens. 


§  Frame.  ^ 


Loin  of 
Veal. 


Petit  P4ic». 


,  Foar  Perch 
plain  boi!ed. 


Three  Chickens 
and  Tarragon. 


Semells  and 
Piquant  Sauce. 


Volevent. 


Alate lot  of  Tench 
and  Eels. 


Tongue  glazed, 
and  Greens. 


Beefsteak 
Pie. 


Mack  Turtle^ 

Removed  with  FISH, 
Removed  with 

Hibi  of  Beef. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


A  Green  Goose. 


French  Beans. 


Blanc  Mange. 


Ragoi^t. 


Apple  Pie. 


Asparagus. 


Jelly. 


Mushrooms. 


I 


Gooseberry  Pie. 


Two 

Rabbits. 


f  Frame.  I 


Gooseberry  Pie. 


Mushrooms. 


Orange  Jelly. 


Asparagus. 


Apple  Pie. 


Ragoiit. 


Rheniah  Cream. 


French  Beans, 


A  Copon. 


wimma^ 


9BI 


No.  109.    BAKED  PIKE. 

Put  the  same  kind  of  stuffing  that  is  used  for  a  fillet  of 
Teal  in  the  belly  of  the  Pike ;  sew  the  belly  up  with  pack- 
thread ;  turn  it  round,  by  putting  the  tail  in  the  mouthj 
and  run  a  skewer  through  the  head  to  keep  it  in  its  place  ; 
then  egg  it  well  over  }  then  put  bread  crumbs  over  it  and 
drop  clarified  butter  over  the  bread  crumbs;  then  peel 
and  slice  two  onions,  and  put  them  in  the  dish  the  pike  is 
to  be  baked  in,  also  put  a  few  sweet  herbs^  such  as  thyme^ 
parsley,  basil,  marjoram,  and  a  few  bay-leaves ;  a  pint  of 
stock  and  half  a  pint  of  sherry  wine ;  put  it  in  the  oven  so 
as  to  have  it  done  half  an  hour  before  wanted,  strain  the 
liquor  from  the  pike^  and  skim  the  fat  from  it ;  put  about 
an  ounce  of  butter  in  a  stew-pan,  when  melted  put  as 
much  flour  as  will  dry  it  up,  then  put  the  liquor  that  the 
pike  was  baked  in ;  set  it  on  the  fire^  keep  stirring  until 
it  boils  ;  let  it  boil  for  a  few  minutes  ;  add  a  little  of  the 
essence  of  anchovies  ;  squeeze  it  through  the  tammy ;  put 
It  into  the  stew-pan  to  keep  hot  until  wanted.  Squeeze 
half  a  lemon  in ;  put  the  pike  on  the  dish ;  put  sauce 
round  the  dish  and  the  remainder  in  a  boat ;  remember 
to  take  the  packthread  out ;  put  some  picked  parsley  in  the 
middle  of  the  pike,  to  give  it  a  neat  look. 

PERCH,  PLAIN  BOILED. 

Put  them  on  in  cold  water  and  a  handful  of  salt ;  when 
fbey  come  to  a  boil,  put  in  a  Uttle  cold  water,  and  set 
them  by  the  side  of  the  fire  to  boil  slow,  for  a  few 
minutes ;  when  wanted,  dish  them ;  garnish  with  parsley. 
Send  aWhovy  and  butter  in  a  boat. 


DUTCH  SALLAD. 

Take  the  meat  out  of  a  lobster,  as  whole  as  possible  ; 
cut  up  four  coss  lettuces  (use  none  but  the  hearts)^  mix 


893 

the  sauce  in  the  followhig  manner :  bruise  the  yolks  of 
two  eggs  that  ^re  .bDiled  hard^  sofleA  Item  with  water> 
«a  t^bi^  spoonful  w^li  be  sufficient ;  >vhen  the  eggs  are 
verj  fipe,  put  half  ^  table  spoonful  of  ignustard^  mix  it  Avell 
wjth  the  eggs;  Jthen  put  in  half  a  gill  of  saflad  oil,  mix 
that  wilt  the  eggs^  &c.^o  that  -the  oil  is  not  perceived  in 
the  .mixture ;  then  put  in  a  little  -vinegar  and  a  spoonful 
,pf  Tarragon  vinegar,  and  a  little  elder  and  Chili  vinegar,  a. 
^j^pponful  of  the  essence  of  anchovy  ;  mix  all  well  to- 
gether; cut  the  ^sh  from  the  claws  in  pieces,  and  jrnix 
th^m  with  the  lettuces  and  what  can  be  .picked  ,fr6m 
the  body  and  small  chivvy  ^  split  the 'two  tails,  do  as  to 
m^ke  four  pieces ;  put  the  sallad  on  the  dish  intended, 
,ina|te5t  as  high  as  tlie  ie,lUices  will  admit  of;  put  the  four 
pieces  of  lobster  up  the  sallad,  so  as  to  divide  it  into. four 
p^rfs;  put  the  sance  Over  it.  Garnish  with  flowers  cut 
from  rs^ishes  and  beet  ropt,'any  way  your  faqcy  directs. 


ROUNB  OJF  BEEF  AND  rGSEE.VS. 

SX'Bwe.r  it  .up  very  .tigjU  and  put  a  fillet  round  it,  so  as 
Jto  Q)0ke  it  a,good  :shape  ;  boil  it  for  four  hours  or  longer, 
but  that  depends  on  the  size ;  it  should  be  rather  over 
than  under  done,  for  if  it  is  under- done  it  is  not  so  good 
when  cold,  besides  it  gets  sower  in  a  few  days.  A  ronnd 
of  beef  should  ^be  *at  least  ^  fojEtnight  in  &alt*  Put  greeos 
jpjiiftd.tUe  4ish,  and  pjr^ish  with  carrot. 

B?SF  STEAK  PIE/I?f  A  DISH. 

Cut  the  beef  steaks  from  thai  mmpi  thfiy  ^QuM.be  $at 
thinner  than  for  broiling;  mix  pepper,  salt,  chopped 
parsley,  shaloltes,  ..and  ^liushrooms ;  put  a  spoonful  of 
stock  in  the  dish,  have  a  Httle  «tock  ih  the  stewpan,  just 
:\MilUI^  ^>  ^-M^k^  in:before  they , are  put  .i^  tl)«  ^jtsb, 

it  i^iitYii^  ^^  irW  «t¥^S  -togetliQ^ ;  season  .thi?« 


with  ;i{ie  nuxed  pepper  and  6ak  and  'herbs;  cover  fbe 
l>eHoni  of  the  dish ;  sprinkle  some  seasoniog  oj9  the  3teaks ; 
Uien  put  more,  steaks  io^  andiseason  them,  and  so  on  until 
all  the  beef  steaks  are  ^i  the  dish ;  put  puff  paste  ioun4 
the  dit«b^  and  cov^  it  over  with  puff  paste ;  the  past« 
should  be  about  the  thickness  of  petit  p^tSs ;  brush  it  over 
with  eggs. 

N.D.  All  meat  pies  that  are  made  in  di^l^es  are  finialiei 
in  the  same  manner. 


Sixteen  Tables,  for  the  Private  Sqldiers  and  Tenantry^ 
for  Sixty  to  sit  at  each  Table ;  which  were  covered^ 
as  undernne^itioued,  with  a  cold  CoUatiofi* 


16  Ruands  of  Beef. 

8  Aicli3paes  pf  GU&ei. 

8  JBriskets  of  Be<rf. 

S  Sirloins  «4'  B««^ 

8  H^bs  of  Beei*. 

32  Large  Me«t  Pies,  madUs  of'^Beef 
and  -Mutton. 


32  Veal  and  X^inb  J^ies.  j| 

16  Dishes  of  yeg«|AU«'s  on  each 

XabJe. 
14  i^Udis  on  each  Xable. 
6  Lacgc    Plumb    Puddings    on 
each-Table. 

-1 


■3— *• 


i  \     j^t   !t 


0^  Table,  for  One  Hundred* 


^^im^  «f  ^tatff. 
3  Aich  Bones  (of  Beef, 
3  ^Mrluins  *A  BeeC  roksted. 
^JiaMoTBeef)  roa^tad. 
3  Legs -of  -MuUon. 


^^houkkrs. 
19  Old  Meat  Fies. 
Vi  Plumb  ^oid^igga. 
-34  Vegetables. 


■T"  ■It 


'<m  I'n 


■»'  ^  f  M  —  't'  ■■y 


234 


APRIL  19-    No.  no.    BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Poiage  a  la  Flamondy 

Removed  with 

A  Neck  of  Veal. 


MatelotofEelt. 


Shoulder  of 

Lamb  miaced 

and  broiled. 


Raited  Pie 
a  la  Fran9flise. 


Poulet  a  la 
Duchess. 


Stewed  Tench. 


JPmA, 

Removed  with 

A  Chine  of  Mutton, 


SECOND  COURSE, 
ft  ^_ 

Poulard  with  Eggs, 


l^ancakes. 


Escal  loped 
Oj^sters. 


Asparagus. 


Anchovy 
Toast. 


Damson  Toort. 


Four  Pigeons. 


APRIL  20.    No.  111.    BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Soup  Santiy 

Removed  with 

A  Ham  braised^  glazedy 

and  Spring  Cabbage. 


Petit  P&t^s 
of  Sweetbread. 


Stewed 
Beefsteaks. 


Two  Chickens 
a  la  Reine. 


Fricassee  of 

Rabbits  and 

Onions. 


Calves'  Feet  au 

G  rat  in  and 
Spanish  Sauce. 


Fish, 

Removed  with 

A  Loin  of  Veal. 


SECOND.  COURSE. 


Jioo  Ducklings. 


Lobster. 


Brocoli 
Pith  Sauce^ 


App^e  Pie. 


Spinach  and 
Crouton. 


Guinea  Fowl* 


.236 

APRIL  21.    No.  112.   BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Soup  u  la  Reine* 

lienioved  with 

A  Fillet  of  Veal. 


Pigeon  Pi« 
in  a  Disb. 


Mutton 

Cutlets  and 

CncumberSauce. 


Two 

Cliickeiis 
a  la  Reine. 


Leg  ot 

Lamb 

r7H9ted 


I'uiigue 

glazed  and 

Greens. 


Cipilotade  of 
Duckling. 


Petit  VM 
of  Oysters. 


Fishj 

Removed  with 
A  Sirloin  of  Beef* 


SECOND  COURSE. 


A  Capon, 


Brocoli 
with  Sauce. 


Broiled 

Mushrooms, 


Pastry," 


Jelly. 


Apricot 
toqrte. 


Ragoat  MiII6. 


Asparagus. 


A  Green  Goose* 


APRIL  21.    No.  113.    BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Mutton  and  Broth  withRoots^ 

Removed  with 

A  Turkey  J  roasted. 


Petit  Vk\€%, 


Breast  of  Lamb 

grilled  and 
Piquant  Sauce. 


Loin  of  Pork. 


Harricot  of 
Beef. 


Minced  and 
Broiled  Fowl. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Guinea  Fo»/,  larded* 


Omelet  Souffle. 


Artichoke 

Bottoms  in 

Sauce., 


Gooseberry  Pic. 


Stewed  Cellery. 


Maccaroni. 


Fishy 

Removed  with 

A  Chine  of  Mutton* 


■^".^•".•••■'.♦■••■.*" 


Shoulder  of  Lamb* 


t^fmmmHmmm.mmm'i^^^fl^ 


APRtL£$.    No.  114.    BtLL  OF  FAIir. 


FIRST  COUilSE. 


TT 


Italian  Soup^ 

Removed  v^itli 

Leg  of  Lamb  boHedj  Loin 
Jkied,  uad  Spmach. 


Beef  Kidney 

nnd  Shaiot 

Sauce. 


i—— 


Pork  Cutlets 

and 
Hober  Saoee. 


A  Raised  Mutton ' 
aixl  PatAto^  Pie. 


■r-r 


9  t  H'     >J    i**rr-^ 

Souties  of 

"Mutton  and 

Cucun>bt'r. 


A  Fike  bakedy 

ftemoved  with 
JR/ftf  of  Beeff. 


mvamwM 


SECOND  COURSE. 


T^d^  l>u^ing^4 


Salsrfie 
in  Sauce. 


Lobster  dressed. 


Farallnn<>r^ 

Ojsters. 


BdmiqU 
with  Sauce. 


Figeom* 


APftH.  ^4.    No.  115.   "Sn/L  OF  FAR^. 


^  '.'  .t  ♦  «  ?'  rn 


/'  '?■■•- 


rf        FIRST  COURSE. 


Hemoved  with 

A  Leg  of  Lamff  boiled^  Loin 
fried^  and  Spinach.        ' 


Tend e rones  of , 
r^mb  a  ia  Heine. 

I  -   J 


J  Tongue 

■  glazed » ice. 


Mutton 
Tomato  Sauce. 


.IH'i>IS  I 


''I     I"  II 


■^-» 


Fricasee  of 
CtHcken  and    \ 
Mushrooms. 


rrr 


■W" 


ReuuTed  with 
A  Loin  of  Veal, 


SECpND  COURSE. 

Fojfif^  npastedm 


"Stewed  CJeHery, 


Artic.h(>ke 
.Bottoms. 


J 


!■■''!  


Maccafoni. 


fi  .1  »■ 


nsparagBs. 


Shouider  of  Lamb. 


19S7 


APRIL  2$;    No.  116.    BILL  OF  FARfi*  ' 


FIRST  COURSE. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


VermiceUt  Soupy 

RemoTctt  with 

A  FiUei  of  Fe^. 


jtf:  Capon* 


Tenderone  of 

Veal  and 

MnshiooniSt 


Compote  of    I  Apricot  TurU' 
PigpoM*       I  let*. 


•f 


Aiparagas. 


■*.• 


N«ckofMiitton& 
Harricot  Beansi 


k. 


A  Carrier  of 
Rabbit  &  Rice. 


Lamb  Cutlets  & 

CeoQaiber 
g> 


Ribs  of  Beef. 


\Jt 


Maccaroni. 

.  »   I* 


Brbiiblj  witli 
Saace« 


«*" 


RTcc  Fritteri 
glftxed. 


I 


Green  Ooose. 


APRILS.    No.  117.    BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  CQORSt:. 


Spring  Soupn 
Itemo^d  with  Fl^ 

B^AAlAir  Jul.  ^UKltJk 

Ham^  braised^  glazedy  6;c,  ] 


SECOND  COUR&E. 


Pigeons, 


White  Collops. 


Two  Chickens 
and  Tarragon 
^uce. 


Small  Pastrjr. 


MAshrooms 
broited. 


Raised  Pi«with 

Mutton  and 

Potatoes. 


Oysters  fried  in 
Batter. 


Ox  Romps  and 
9pviMg  '\^atyDugc« 


A  Soutics  of 
Soles  a  la  Itali-  ' 
enne. 


"  • '  • 


Bl«c«K  and 

OttQCO* 


i  mi  tti      II 


Gooaeberry 
Tourto. 


FISH. 

Removed  with 

A  Chine  of  Mutton.  _ 


I  ■ 


T^»o  Rubbits, 


238 


APRIL  e?.    No.  118.    BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST   COURSJE.        |( 


Soup  Julien, 

Removed  with 

A  Neck  of  Veal  a  la 
Beshemell, 


Small  Muttoti 
Pies. 


Stewed  Beef 
5teaks. 


Pigeon  Pie. 


A  Roulard  of 

Mouton  and 

Sauce  hachis. 


Casserol  of 

Rice  with 

Giblets. 


Fish, 

Removed  with 
HibsofBeef. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Two  Ducklingr» 


Cranberry 
Tourte. 


Spioacli  and 
Eggs. 


A  Fondue* 


Lobster 
dressed. 


Apricot 
Toarte. 


Two  Rabbits* 


No.  118.     CRANBERRY  TOURTE. 
Follow  the  same  directions  as  for  Currant  Tourte. 
See  page  93. 

APRIL  28.    No.  119.    BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 

Soup  SantS, 

Removed  with  TURKEY  roast, 

with  a  RAGOUT. 


Fricasseo  ot  Rab- 
bit and  Onions. 


Grenadines  and 
Sorrel  Sauce. 


Breast  ol 
Veid  a  la 
Itaiibune. 


A  \V«st|)ti«iia 

Ham,  braised, 

gfaziiid,  and 

Spii^ach. 


Two 
Chickens 
tliaReine 


Sweetbreads 
larded,  glazad, 
and  an  Rininre. 


Tend t roues  ot 
Lamb  and  As- 
paragus Peas. 


FiSU,  removed  with 

A  Sirloin  of  Beef 


I 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Green  Goose* 


Ragodt  MiJ16 


Asparagus. 


Pastry.  Jelly.  Paatry. 


Brocoli 


I  I 


MaccaroAi. 


Ribs  of  Lamb. 


'      1  I  4 


28» 


APRIL  29.    No.  120.   BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Soup  Juliarty 

Reiuovcd  with 

A  Fillet  of  Veal. 


Soutie  uf  Sole 
a  la  Italicnae. 


Petit  Psites. 


Neck  of  Pork, 
roasted.    - 


Smalt   Mutton 
Pie». 


FricaKsee  ut* 
Cliickeu. 


Fishj 

Removed  with 

J  Chine  of  Mutton. 


SECOND   COURSE. 


Guinea  Foxsl^  larded. 


Picked  Crab. 


Sea  Kale. 


Chaniitl^Basket.  I 


Spinach  and 
Croutons 


JIara  and 
Egg». 


Two  Ducklings, 


APRIL  30.    No.  121.    BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Soup^ 

Removed  with 

A  Haunch  of  Lamb  larded 
and  Chervil  Sauce. 


Scorch  Coilops. 


Semelsand  Pi- 
quant Sauce. 


Raised  Mutton 
and  Potatoe  Pie. 


Petit  Pii^s. 


Capilotade  of 
Fowl. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Ttjoo  Chickensy  one  larded. 


Fish, 

Removed  with 

Ribs  of  Beef 


Pastry. 


Asparagus. 


Jelly. 


New  Potatoes. 


Rice  Fritters 
glazed. 


Tzoo  Rabbitsp 


fi4» 


MAYl.    No.  122.   BILL  OP  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Vermicelli  Soup^ 
A  Sucking  Pig, 


Two  Sweet* 
breads  larded* 
&  SoiTft  8sttC«. 


^- 


Two  Ohicifcens 
a  la  Reine. 


Stewed  Beef  aad 
"Roots, 


Pig*»  Face  and 
Greens. 


Two  Bfeasts  of 
Lamb  grilled. 


Fish^ 

Removed  with 

A  Loin  of  Vetd, 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Pigeons. 


Brucoij  aud 
Saace. 


Oonseberrj 
Toorte. 


Asparagus. 


MAYSL    No.  12S.    BILL  OF  FAR£, 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Spring  Soupy 

Rerat>vcd  with 

A  Fillet  of  Veal. 


Semels  and 
Piquant  Sauce. 


Compote  of 
Pigeons. 


Leg  of  Lamb. 


Fricassee  of 
Ratfbtr. 


Petit  P&iis. 


Removed  with 

Sirloin  of  Beef. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Poulard  with  Eggi. 


Sea  Kail. 


A  Goosebtrijf 
Pie. 


Fondue. 


Mushroom 
Fritters. 


New  Potatoes. 


Two  Ducklings. 


ff41 

No.  423.    FHICASSEE  OF  RABBIT  WITH 

MUSHROOMS. 

Cut  the  rabbit  up,  and  put  it  on  to  blanch  in  cold  wa- 
ter ;  ^when  it  comes  to  4i  boil,  take  it  off  the  fire  and  wash 
it  in  several  waters ;  take   the  second  skin  off,  <and  trim 
any  ragged  pieces  from  the  rabbit ;  put  about  two  ounces 
of  butter  into  a  stew-pan,  a  slice  of  bam,  and   about  half 
a  pottle  ef  mushrooms ;  squeeze  half  a  lemon  in,  iind  put 
white  paper  over  the  rabbit:  set  it  on  a  slow  stove  to  sim- 
mer gienrty  for  half  an  hour ;  then  skim   the  butter   from 
the  liquor,  and  put  it  into  a  stew-pan  and  set  it  on  the  fire; 
put  in  Bs  much  flour  as  will  dry  up  tlie  butter  ;  keep  stir- 
ring it  while  on  th«  fire,  then  put  in  the  liquor  from  the 
rabbit,  a   little  stock,  and  a  little  cream ;  let  it  boil  for  a 
few  minutes,  keep   stirring  it  while  on   the  fire;  vrfi^en  it. 
has  boiled  a  few  minutes,  strain  it  tlirough  the  -tammy,  and 
pirt  it  to  the   rabbit;  season  it  with  a  little  white. pepper 
and  salt,  and  a  little  dust  of  sugar ;  put  the  rabbit  on  -tbe 
dish  first,  and  the  mushrooms  over  it;  garnish  it   with 
croutons  or  paste. 

MAY  3.    No.  124.  BILL  OF  FARE. 


)        FIRST  COURSE. 
Flemish  Soiip^ 

RemoTcd  witli 

A  Loin  of  Veal 

a  la  BeHhemeli. 


Lamb  Cutlets 

and  Cucumber 

Sance. 

Ox  Rumps 

and 

Spring  Cabbage 

. 

Vk\k  a  ia 
l'ran9oi9e. 

FricaiffJeau^ 
glased,  and 
Sorrel  Sauce. 

Risoles. 

1. 

Fisk^ 

Rerooved  With 
A  Chine  of  Mutton. 


SECOND  COURSE, 


I*       m * 


Tao  Ducklings, 


Mnccaroni. 


Chantillj 
Basket. 


Asparagus. 


Ratifio  Pudding 


Ragoiit  Mell^. 


A  Leveret. 


M 


242 


MAY  4.    No.  125.  BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Soup  Sante^ 
ReiuaveH  with 

A  Haunch  of  Lamb  lardedj 

and  CucuroberSHnce. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Two  Chickens, 


Tendcrones 

of  Veal  and, 

Mushrooms. 


Petit  P&l^s. 


Mateiot  of  Carp 
and  £el8. 


Ri  soles. 


Harricpt  of 
Mutton. 


Fillet  of  Veal. 


BruGoli  and 
Brown  Saace. 


^pple  Pie. 


Maccaruni. 


Castard  in  Cops. 


Asparagas. 


Two  Rabbits. 


'No.  124.     MATELOT  OF  CARP  AND  EELS. 

« 

Bone  the  carp^  and  put  the  bones  and  trimmings  of  the 
eeb  into  a  stew-pan^  four  onions,  a  faggot  of  thymes 
parsley,  knotted  and  sweet>magoram,  a  pint  of  stock,  and 
a  pint  of  port  wine,  six  anchovies  unwashed;  set  the  stew- 
tutnon  the  fire  to  simmer  gently  for  Ha  hour,  then  strain 
die  liquor  from  the  bones;  put  the  carp  and  eels  into  a 
«tew-pan,  and  about  two  dozen  of  button  onions ;  put  the 
liquor  just  strained  off  to  tlie  carp,  and  set  it  on  the  stove 
to  simmer  gently  until  the  carp  and  eels  are  done  (the  eels 
sbould  bejcut  in  pieces  about  two  inches  long);  then  take 
the  stew-pan  from  the  fire;  put  ha!f  a  pottle  of  mushrooms 
into  a  steW'-pan,  a  little  white  pepper  and  salt,  and  about 
two  ounces  of  butter;  put  the  stew-pan  on  the  fire  to  sini- 
xner  until  the  mushrooms  are  done;  then  put  ai^mucb  flour 
as  will  dry  up  the  butter ;  then  put  the  liquor  from  the 
carp  by  ^  little  at  a  time ;  keep  stirring  it  while  on  the  fire 
to  prevent  it  from  sticking  to  the  bottom ;  when  it  has 
boiled  a  few  minutes,  put  it  to  the  carp,  &c.^:  add  about  a 


tis 


pint  of  oysters  (when  in  season),  first  beard  iind  blanch 
tbem,  put  some  of  the  liquor  belongiiig  to  the  oysters  in; 
fut  U  oirth^  itoVe  to  make  it  hot,  but  it  should  hot  boil 
forfearof  breaking  ihdfisli;  season  it  with  a  liltfe  Cay- 
enne pepper;  squeeze  a  little  lemon  juice  in,  .and  a  Uttle 
<^e  of  atoehovie;  but  the  carp  in  the  middle  6f  the 
«8b,  Me  eds  ibdwd,  arid  thie  sauce  OTer-,  garnish  with 

MAY  5.    No.  126.  BILL  OF  FARiE. 


fmst  covnm. 


■ '  -  > 


Beifjffved  with  flSB, 

Kemoved  with 
A  Sucking  Pig. 


Two  Sweetbreads 
larded,  glazed, 
and  An,£Qiiince. 


Le^  of  Lamb 

boUed« 
and  Spinach. 


Two  Breasts  of 

Fowl  Jarded, 

Legs  forced, 

giaaed,and 

AspaVagng  Peas. 


■*i- 


SECdifD  couiIsb; 


r 

6r^e^  Goose. 


A  Raned  Fie 
wiihr  Pigeons. 


Ham  braised 
and  Greens. 


Mutton 

Catlets  lardedy 

and  Mnsbrooms. 


Loin  of  Veal 
d  la  ^eshetuelf. 


Asparagus. 


'  I  I   II 


Raisejd  Pie 
with  Beefsteaks. 


eUAmiyBasUf 


J 


Three  Chickens 
si  la  Reine. 


Foiidue. 


Blanc  Mange. 


RagoUt 

Melle. 


Breast  of  I^amb 
rolled,  Cutlets 
larded,  &c. 


Spring  Soupy 

Keraoved  with  FISH, 
Removed  with- 

A  Sirloin  of  Beef. 


Cauliflower 

with 

White  Sauce. 


Savoj  Cake. 


Mushrooms. 


Pigeons, 


M  £ 


^11         w' 


444 


:No.  126.    TWO  BREASTS  OF  FOWL  LARDED, 
.  LEGS  FORCED,  AND  ASPARAGUS  PEAS. 

Cut  the  legs  ofFthefo\ily  bone  thenit  and  stufF  tbem 
with  forced  meat ;  lard  them  and  the  breasts ;  put  the 
bones^  and  any  other  poultry  trimmings^  into  a  stjew-pan^ 
put  in  a  pint  of  stocky  two  or  three  onions,  a  faggot  of 
thyme  and  parsley,  a  few  blades  of  mace,  ^two  or  three 
bay-leaves;  'then  cover  it  over  with  sheets  of  bacon,  and 
put  the  breasts  and  legs  of  fowl  on;  set  _it  on  the  stove 
to  simmer  gently ;  when  done,  finish  as  other  lardings  are; 
put  the  sauce  on  the  dish  first,  the  breasts  in  the  middle^ 
and  the  legs  rouifd  the  sides;  garnish  with  j)aste  or 
4:routona. 


3IUTTON  CUTLETS  LARDED,  AND  MUSH. 

ROOMS. 

Cut  eight  cutlets  from  the  fat  end  of  a  neck  (cut  them 
rather  thicker  than  for  broiling,  or  for  doing  them  with 
herbs  and  bread,  crumbs) ;  scrape  the  bone  quite  clean; 
leave  the  bone .  about  two  inches  long ;  lard  'them  very 
^lose ;  finish  them  in  all  respects  the  same  as  lamb  <tf 
j^eal  cuiletfi. 


fi46 


MAY  6.    No.  127.  BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  CC^UBSK 


i>. 


A  Tureen  of  Ox' Rumps ^ 

Removed  witii> 

J  Fillet  of  Veal. 


Tenderones  of 
Veal  and 
Mufthrooms. 


Lamb  CaUttt 

and 
Piquaiu  Sauce. 


Tongae  glazed* 
and  Turnips. 


Small  Mutton 
Pies,  raised. 


BeefCuliops. 


Fishy 
Kenioved  with 

ji  Leg  of  Mutton* 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Guinea  Foxd^  larded. 


FloYcrs*  Eggs. 


Asparagat. 


French  Beans. 


Prawns. 


Two  Ducklings. 


No.  127.    A  TUREEN  OF  OX-RU^lPS; 

Braise  the  rumps  the  same  as  for  a  dish^  and  the 
cabbage  the  same  ;  put  about  a  quarter  of  a  pound  o( 
butter  into  a  stew-pan  ;  i  Avhen  melted^  put  as  much  flour' 
as  will 'dry  it  up;  then  add'  two  quarts  of  the  very  beat- 
stock  to  it^  by  a  little  at  a  time;  when  all  in  and  mixed,  sa 
as  to  be  free  from  lumps^  set  it  on  the  fire  to  boil  for  a 
few  minutes  ;  then  squeeze  it  through  the  tammy  and  put 
it  into  a  small  soup-pot^  to  keep  hot ;  take  the  rumps  and 
cabbage  out  of  the  braise>  and  lay  them  on  a  clean  cloth, 
to  soak  the  fat  from  them ;  pull  the  bones  from  the  rumps^ 
and  take  the  strings  from  the  cabbage,  and  lay  the  rum[;s 
and  cabbage  in  the  tureen,  and  pour  the  soup  over  them. 


9i6 


MAY  7.    No.  128.  BIJLL-  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  €Ot;ftSfi; 


A  Tureen  of  Chicken  S^  Rice, 

ReiiToTert  with 

ji  Lpin  of  Veal. 


\ 


Prttt  Pfttes  of 

Lobster. 

.     ■■       |>.|      II  M|,,  1,1, 


Fricassee  of 
Chicken. 

i      IX 


Leg  of,  Lamb 

boUeilyLoin  fried, 
ai^d  Spinacf^. 


WTbite  CoUo£9. 


n  '  — 


Fifh, 

Removed  with. 
Jiids  of  Beef  . 


A  sipali  Raised 
Pie,  with  Mutton 
;  and  Potatoes. 


SBC0I*1>  COURSE. 


-4  PoHfard, 


Muihroonu* 


Brocolj  and 
White  Sauce. 


<— k- 


Gooseberry 
Re.    ' 


ti     t . 


Plovers' 
Egg*. 


Rhubarb 
Pie. 


jLlOvBTvK7  w  rCSSeO'. 


Fat  Livers  in  a 
Case. 


iwi  r  >ii  I    I    .     I    I    nil 


Two  ducklings. 


I  ■« 


No.  128.    RHUBARB  PYE. 

String  tke.  rhubufb^  s^nd  cut  it  in  pieces;  put  «  few 
pieces  of  cinnamon^  and  three  or  four  cfoves  in  the  dish  ; 
then  put  in  the  rhubarb,  and  grate  a  lemon*  over  it ;  put 
flugarover  it^  but  no  water;  tben  oover  itover  with  puff 
paste^  Bnd  bc^e  it ;  it  wiili  take  about  the  same  time  aa 
an  apple  pie.  -  A  oustard  may  be  put  over  it^  iii«  tb^  same; 
maoiier  «|  on  apple  pie^  it  baviog  tbe  same  flayouf«     ' 


24T 


MAY  8.    No.  129.   BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Soup  Julicn^ 

ReiDO^d  with 

A  Brisket  of  Beef  stewed) 

and  Roots. 


Pigeons 
a  la  Crapaadine. 


Veal  and  Haan 

Cutlets,  and 

Piquant  Sauce. 


Neck  of  Veal 
a  la  Besbemeli. 


Brtitst  of  Lafbb 

grilled,  and 

Cucumber. 


Poulard- 
a  la  Ducliesse. 


Fish, 

Removed  with 
A  Chine  of  Mutton  • 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Two  Turkey  Poults, 

one  larded. 


Morels. 


Spinach  and 
Croutons. 


Articli^ke 
Bottoms  fried 
in  Battrt.     ' 


Broiled 

Muslirooms. 


Tzco  Rabbits, 


No.  V19.    MORELS. 


•t 


Pat  \\\i  QiQrels  in  soak  in,  warm  water^  and  thangie^it 
several  tim^s.  as  Uiey  arc  very  apt  to  be  kv\M  \  piit'tlieiii 
on  to  blanch  in  cold  water,  whei?  it  c0i1:^d  to  a  bpif  taxe' 
lliem  off  the  fire  and  wash  them  in  several  walierky  then' 
put  them  in  a'stew-pan,  with  as  much  Stock  as  will  dciver 
them,  and  a  gill  of  sherry  wine :  set  the  stew-pan  over 
the  fire  to  simmer  gently  for  one  hour ;  then  take  the 
oiorels  out  of  the  stew-pan  and  cover  them  over,  between 
two  platens,  to  keep  hot ;  reduce  the  liquor  nearly  to  a 
gl^ze,  then  put  a  little  cullis.  Set  it  on  the  fire  to  make 
it  faot ;  then  put  in  the  morels,  and  give  them  one  boil 
up;  dish  them,  and^garnish  with  croutons. 


24;» 


LOBSTER  PATES, 

Take  the  fish  oat  of  the  shelly  and  mince  it  fine ;  put  a 
little  beshemell  and  a  few  drops  of  essence  of  anchovies^  a 
little  Cayenne  pepper ;  make  it  quite  hot ;  then  squeeze  a 
little  lemon  juice  in^  and  a  little  dust  of  sugar;  then  fill 
the  p^t6s. 

MAY  9.     No.  130.    BILL  OF  FARE, 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Gihlet  Soup  a  la  Tortue^ 

Rfinoved  wilh     • 

A  Ham  braised^  and  Spinach, 


Mutton  Cut!e(a 
and  To  mala 
•    Sauce. 


Fncandeau 
glazed,  and 
Sirrel  Sauce. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Two  Ducklings, 


Petit  Pat^s. 


Two  Chickens  . 
a  la  lieine. 


Calves'  Feet 

aud  Spanish 

Sauce. 


Fishy 

K^raoved  with 

Roast  Beef. 


Prawns. 


'  Spinach 
and  Croaiont. 


New  Potatoes. 


Plovers*  Eggs. 


Tzco  Turkey  PouliSj 

one  larded. 


No.  130.    CALVES'  FEET  AND  SPANISH 

SAUCE. 

Bone  four  calves  feet,  and  put  them  on  for  jelly  stock  i 
U'hen  tender  lake  them  up  and  put  them  in  cold  .water ; 
when  cold  trim  tbern,  and  put  the  trimmings  into  the  jelly 
istock  ;  dry  the  feet  in  a  clean  cloth,  be  particular  ir  soak- 
ing all  the  water  from  them  ;  then  put  a  few  spoonsful 
of  stock  into  a  stew-pau^  and  about  an  ounce  of  glaze ; 


249 

^en  melted  put  the  calves'  feet  in^  and  set  them  by  the  • 
side  of  ibe  stove^  to  make  hot ;  when  ready  put  them  on  • 
tke  dish^  and  thie  sauce  over  them.  l^r  sauce  see  ' 
Appendix.  '  - 


TWO  TURKEY  POULTS,  ONE  LARDED- 

4 
■  •  •      • 

Skevver  themy  with  the  legs  turned  under,;  and  leave  the 
head  and  nect  on^;  the  bead  should  be  turned  rouifd  and 
fastened  to  tbe  first  skewef ;  put  them  ou  the  spit>  and 
then  to  ^lie-fire^  let  theaK-be-at  the  fire  a  few  minutes" 
before  they  -are  singed ;  after  singing  them^  flour  them ; 
baste  with  butter,  and  finish  them  the  same  as  roast  ' 
chickens.  .  Send  bread  sauce  in  a  boat. 

N  B.  All  poultry  should  beatthe-fire  a  few  minutes^ 
before  they  are  singed.  .  .  ' 


MAY  10,    N6.  13 TV    BILL  Ol?  fare: 


^m^ 


FIRST  COURSE.  , 


Spring  Soup^  .. 

Refrriov<d  with'  - 

.  A  Fillet  of  Veal. 


Pigeon  Pie, 


Beef  Olives  and 
New  Potatoes. 


■  ■■    <    A  A        i 


pigViace  giuzed» 
ar>d  Greet i«. 


Tt-nderoiies  of 

Lamb  and 

Musliiooius. 


Petit  Pail^s  oi 

Chicli^eo. 


•    Fuh, 

Ite{mrTi.*(t  with 

A  Lee  of  Mutlon* 


SECOND  COURSE, 


Green  Goose^ 


LobsPer 
in  iheS^ieU. 


Asparagus. 


t  1  — •  p 


Haiifie 
PuddiniBT. 


Alaccaroni. 


Potted  tiam. 


1    .       am  ^•^mmmtmml^ 


H 


Ribs  of  Lamh, 


■•  ■■? 


W\^ 


2oa 

MAY]!.    No.  132.    BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE.        I 
Ve%micelli  Soup^y 

Removed  with 

Stewed  Beef  and  Roots, 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Pigeons* 


Dack  &  ]» 

Daube,  and 

Tarnipsb 


Lumb  Cfttlfts 

and  Cacamber 

Sauce. 


Small  Mutton 


Fondue. 


Asparagvt. 


Pastrj. 


f  Plovers' 


Jelly. 


C^iiorad^'Ol 


< 


^.mtiit^ttmttmfv  ■  ^   "■ 


Casterole^f  Bicel  ftmdt  Bcaaa. 
wuh  Giblets.    "  «™«"«:™- 


Ra^lMeii^ 


Renioved%Wi         >    ;|     Three  Spring  Chickens. 
A  tdoin  of  Feai. 


No.  132.    SPRING  CHICKENS 
Are  small  chickens  of  an  early  bro6d ;  they  will  take 
about  ten  minutes  roasting.    Send  bread  aauce  id  a  boat, 
and  parsley  and  butter  under  them. 

MAY  l£,    No,  133.     BILL  OF  FARE. 

-  -    ^    -  : *•      -        *  


FIRST  COURSE. 

Giblet  Sq^fy 
lEteiDOTed  vntfa 

J  FiUet  of  Veat. 


Teaderones  of 

Lamb  «nd 

Musbraomf. 


Two  Chickens 
a  la  Reine. 


Raised  Pigeon 


Pie. 


Neat's  Tongue 

in  Cutlets,  and 

Slewed  Greens. 


Scorch  CoIIops. 


Fish, 

Removed  with^ 
A  Sirloin  of  Beef. 

— -     -  — —    —     --    —  -       *^  


m^mmmmmmmmtm 


SECOND  COURSE. 
T»o  Tttrkey  Poults* 

one  iarded.  . 


French  Beans. 


Macearoni. 


I  Pasiry.  | 


an  Graton.   , 


Nei^  Potatoes. 


Sh&ulder  of  Lamb. 


A  4 


5251 


/.*   f 


No.  rS3.    GIBLET  soup, 

At  -tfais  tune  of  the  year  is  made  of  the  giblats  of  green 
geese  and  ducklings  ;  if  sL  la  tortue^  tbe  same  as  page  7 ; 
if  for  white^  put  a  pint  of  asparagus  peas,  and  make  a 
laison  of  four  eggs  and  a  pint  of  cream^  and  two  or  three 
spoousful  of  beshemell. 

NEAT'S  TONGUE  IN  CUTLEIS,  AND 
STEWflB  GREENS. 

Boil  a  tongue  ;  cut  it  in  sBces,  and  the  root  the  same  ; 
make  as  many  slices  of  tbe  root  as  th^  other  part ;  boil 
two  spring  cabbagesj>  squeeze  ihem  very  dry,  chop  them 
very  fine^  and  put  them  into  a  stew-pan  with  a  bit  of  butter 
and  half  a  pint  of  good  stock;  put  the  stew-pan  over  the 
stove  to  stew  until  it  becomes  quite  dry ;  season  it  with  a 
little  pepper  and  salt ;  put  it  iOn  the  middle  of  the  dish^ 
and  the  tongue  round  it^  a  fat  and  lean  slice  one  after  the 
other.     Garnish  with  carroty  cut  neat  for  the  purpose. 


MAY  13.    No.  134.    BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Spring  Saupy 

ReiDOv^ii  with 

^  Loin  of  Veal* 


Petit  F^t^s. 


Ox  Rumpf  and 

Cabl>age. 


A  Siickiog 


Sweetbreads 
larded,  and 
Sorrel  Sauce. 


Fricassee  of 
'  Chicken. 


Fishy 

Removed  with . 

ji  Chine  of  Mutton, 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Tzco  Ducklings* 


New  Potatoes. 


Pastry. 


Plover's  Eggs. 


Jelly. 


Spinach  and 
Croutons. 


Tmo  Rabbits. 


»w     ■ 


252 


MAY  14.    No.  135.    BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIKST  COURSE. 


Soup  Sante^ 

Rt' moved  wiih 

Leg  of  Lamb  boiled^  Loin 
fried^  and  Spinach, 


Sniatl  Muitou 

Pies.' 


Tei)(l«rcmes 
of  Veal  and 
Mtishrouiiis. 


Neck  of  Veal. 


Putilet  h  la 
Du  eh  esse. 


Se  ii(*is  aixt  Pi- 
q<ian(  Saidce. 


Fi  A, 

V  Kemuvcd  wkh 
Hihs  of  Beef. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Txoo  Chickens^  one  larded. 


Fondu-.  s  111 
Cases. 


Cauliflower  and 
Sauce. 


Tartlets. 

Jelly. 

Cheese- 
cakes. 

Asparagus.  . 

Hfwiicd 
&Iii.«hrooiiis. 

Green  Goose, 


MAY  15.     No.  135.  BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Rice  Soup^ 
Reroo'ved  with 

A  Loin  of  Veal. 


Sweetbreads 

larded,  gLzed, 

and  Sorrel 

S<iuce. 


Petit  P^tes. 


Breasi  of  Larab 

rolle'i,  and 
Cu.U-t">  larded, 
glazed,  and  As- 
paragus Pt  as. 


Matefot  ©f 

l!fis. 


Fiih^ 

II*nioved  viith 

A  Chine  of  MuUon, 


SECOND  COURSE* 


Guinea  Fozcly  larded. 


New  Po! aloes. 


Asparagus. 


.  Khubuib 
Tart. 


Cidve. 


GrteuArpri 
cot  Tiirt. 


B>ocoli»aud 
Sauce. 


Macaroni. 


Shoulder  of  Lamb. 


25^ 


No.  130.   RHUBARB  TART. 

Sheet  the  tart  pan  with  short  paste ;  string  and  cut  the 
rhubarb  in  small  pieces ;  grate  a  lemon  and  put  it  among 
the  rhubarb ;  put  sugar  (the  samci  quantity  as  is  generally 
put  over  an  apple  pie)^  but  no  water  over  it^  and  brush  it 
over  with  the  white  of  an  egg  beat  up,  then  sift  sugar 
over  it. 

A  GREEN  APRICOT  TART, 

•i 

Scald  the  apricots  in  a  little  water  and  sugar ;  sh^et  the 
tart  pan  with  short  paste;  when  the  apricots  are  quite  cold 
put  them  in  the  tart  pan  (but  not  the  syrup)  j  cover  it  over, 
and  finish  the  same  as  the  rhubarb  tart;,  wheu  done>  put  it 
on  the  dish  that  it  is  to  go  to  table  on,  and  put  the  syrup 
that  belongs  to  it  iu  the  tart. 

MAY  16.  No.  137.  BILL  OF  FARE. 


{       i-lRST  COURSE, 
Soup  a  la  Reincy 

Kciiioved  with 

A  Ham  braised^  glazed^ 
and  Greens. 


BlanqiKtofVeul 
&c  Mu&hroonii. 


Huncot  of 
MuUon. 


iwKi   CiiicKeuy 
a-la  Retnc. 


Sturgeon 
a  Ui  Brochp,  anr' 
Madeira  Sauce. 


Mainteiwn 

Gullets,  and 

Tooiata  Sauce. 


Fishy 

Kenioved  with 

A  Sirloin  of  Beef. 


SECOiXD  COURSE. 


Four  Pigeons. 


Gooseberry  pie. 

Asparagus. 

Lobster. 

French  Beans. 

1  Apple  Pie  and 
Custard. 

Two  Chi^ens. 


t^mlm^mitmmmmt*t 


MiMMMMMaate 


254 


MAX  17.     No.  138.  FILL  OF  FARE. 


.  FIRST  COURSE. 

Soup  Santiy 

Removed  with 

A  Leg  of  Lamb  boiledy 
Loin  fried,  and  Spinach. 


Fricassee  of 
Chicken. 


Semels  and 
Piquant  Sauce. 


Pigeon  Pic. 


Cutlets  of  Sal- 
mon  &  Capers. 


Souties  pf  Sole 

and  Sauce 

a  la  Reine. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Tzco  Turkey  Poults j 
one  larded. 


Spinach  and 
Croutons. 

Orange  JeJljr. 

Fondue. 

I 

Pastrj. 

New  Potatoes. 

Fish, 

Removed  with 

A  Loin  of  Feal. 


Two  Rabbits. 


MAY  18.    No.  139.    BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  CaURSE. 
Soup  Santcy 

Removed  with 

A  Fillet  of  Feal. 


Blanquet  of  Fowl 
and  Uucumber. 


Beef  Olives  & 
New  Potatoes 


Petit  Pat6s. 


A  Cunrie  of 
Rabbit  &  Rice. 


Tcnderoues  of 

Lnmb,  and 
Asparagus  Peas. 


Fishy 

Removed  with 

A  Leg  of  Mutton* 


SECOND  COURSE. 
Two  Chickens,  one  larded, 


Asparagus. 


Maccaront. 


Pastrj. 


Ts^Qe. 


Pasirj, 


Dressed  Crab 
au  Gratin. 


Cauliflower. 


Two  Jbucklings. 


MAY  19.    No.  140.    BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Soup  Julierij 

Removed  wirli 

A  Haunch  of  Lamb  larded'^ 

and  Cucumber  Sauce • 


Petit  rat^k 

Tongue  glaaed, 
and  Spring 
Cabbage. 

• 

Mttielut  of 
Tench  and  Eels. 

Two  Chickens 
s  la  Retne.   • 

1 

Cutlets  of 
Sweetbread  & 
Sauce  Ptquant. 

Sirioin  of  Beef 


S^BCONIX  couas£. 


Guinea  Fowl.    • 


Aspariiguff. 


Mubbroom 

Fritters,  with 

Custard. 


JcUy. 


Orange  Tan  lets. 


New  Potatoes. 


Two  Ducklings, 


MAVeo.    No.  141.    BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 

j^  Tureene  of  Calves  Feet 
and  Asparagus  Feas^ 

Removed  with 

ji  Leg  of  Lamb  boiled^ 
Loin  fried y  and  Spinach, 


SootiesofMnt. 
ton  &  Cucumber. 


A  Soutie  of 
Soles. 


Fillets  of  Salmon 

rolled^  and 

Capers. 


Blauquet  of 
-FomI  and 
Mushioonis, 


.    Fish^ 
Removed  with 
Ribs  of  Beef 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Two  Chickens^  one  larded. 


Plovers'  Eggs. 


Asparagus. 


Apple  Pie. 


Spinach  and 
Croutons. 


Prawns. 


Shoulder  of  Lamb, 


QSGr 


MAY  21.    No.  142.    BILL  OF  FARE. 


Flu^T  COURSE. 
Soup,  d  la  ReinCy 

Removed  with 
Removed  with 

A  Fillet  of  yeal^ 
a  la  Beshemell. 

SECOND  COURSE. 

Tjco  Turkey  PoultSy 
one  lardedy 

• 

Teiiderones  of 

Veal  and 

Mushrooni«4 

Lsnib's  Feet  and 
Asparagiki  Peat. 

Jel     anMarbre. 

ChantiUy  Cake. 

New  Potatoes. 

Asparagus. 

Neck  of  Mutton 
and  Cacumber. 

Two  Chickens 
i  la  Reine. 

Jmelel  Souffles. 

ACrabjdrcised. 

Ham,  braised  & 
glazed,  &  Couliis. 

* 

Rump  of  Bee( 

a  la  Mantun 

auChoux. 

Two  Rabbits 
Roasted. 

J'our  PigeuiiS. 

Prawns. 

Smoaked  Saluitii) 
in  a  Case. 

Two  Ducklings 
forced  &  Turnips , 

Breast  of  Vtal 
glazed,  and  a 
Ragofit. 

1 

French  Beans. 

Caul-flower.     ! 

,      1 

,   Queni-ls  of     - 
Fowl. 

A  Sou  lie  of 
Soles  a  la  Reine. 

- 

1 

Ganteaa 
Millefl;:ur. 

Rhenish  Cr«min. 

Sprins  SouD'.' 

Kcnaov 

Fi. 

R'iffjoi: 

1         A  China  c 

ed  with 
ed  with 

f  Mutton. 

> 

A  Greet 

«  Goose, 

'    No.  142.    QUENELS  OF  FOWL, 

Scrape  off  the  meat  of  one  large  fow'l>  or  two-  small 
Onesi.^lso  $neq^al  quatitlty  of  the  fat  of  H^xn,  and  halt 
Iks  mucb  kao^  cut  tine  and  poucd^f^  by  kselfj    wh^a 


«57 


potiiiHed  fine^  put  in  the  fowl  and  fat  ham ;  add  to  it 
chopped  mushrooms^  parsley,  thyme,  and  shalots,  mi* 
all  well  log<}ther  by  rubbing  it  round  the  mortar ;  add  pep*^ 
per  and  salt,  the  crumb  of  a  French  roll  soaked  in  cream, 
and  the  yolk  of  two  eggs ;  mix  all  well  together ;  then 
beat  up  the  whites  of  two  eggs  and  put  them  in ;  mix. all 
together;  take  it  out  of  the  mQrtar  and  put  it  on  a  plate: 
have  a  quart  of  good  stock  boiling  in  a  stew-pan,  put  some 
of  the  quenelle  in  a  table  spoon;  have  a  tea  spoon,  and 
put  as  much  as  it  will  hold  into  the  boiling  stock  until  it  is 
all  in ;  take  the  quenels  up  with  a  slice  the  same  as  yoa 
would  a  poached  egg :  the  quenel  should  be  about  the  size 
of  the  yolk  of  an  egg  when  boiled  hard ;  put  the  quenels 
on  the  dish,  and  pour  white  Italian  sauce  over  them. 

N.  B.  1  hey  should  not  be  finished  until  one  of  the  last 
things,  as  they  should  go  to  table  as  hot  as  possible,    * 

MAY  22.    No.  143.    BILL  OF  FARE, 


FIRST  COURSE. 

Verfhicelli  Soup^ 

Kf moved  with 

ji  Brisket  of  Beef 
Tremblanc^  and  RooiSy 


Mackerel  a  la    ; 
Mail  re  d -Hotel. 


Tend e  rones  of 
Lamb  and  Akt 
paragus  Peas. 


Petit  Pf^l^s. 


A  Sontie  of 
Sweetbread. 


A  broiled  Fowl 
&  IVIush rooms. 


Fish, 

Removed  with 

A  Loin  of  Vecd* 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Guinea  Fowl, 


Spaliish  Fritters. 


French  Beans  in 
Sauce. 


Orange  Jelly. 


a..d  Sauce.      I  I  ApncotTar.lets. 


Ttx^o  Rabbits. 


No.  143.     MACKEREL  k  la  Maitrc  d'Hotel,  See 

Appendix^ 


25» 


^AY  23.    No.  144.  BILL.  OF  FARE. 


> '^^*««^^*>*>r*^> 


FIKST  gouuse; 

fVhite  Giblpt  Soup, 

Removed  with 

A  Fillet  of  Veal. 


Compdtc  of 
Pigeons  wiih 
Mushrooms. 


Lamb  Cutlets 

and  Cucumber 

Sauce. 


Toncjue  glazed, 
and  Greens. 


PelitPai^s. 


Two  Chicken* 
a  la  Rttine. 


Fishy 

Removed  with 

Roast  Beef. 


SECOxXb  COURSE. 
Tiso  Rabbits.r 


French  Beans. 

1 

Green  Apricot 
Tan, 

Rhenish  Cream. 

Orange  Tourt. 

Asparagus. 

Shouldev  of  Lambi 


•^ 


MAY  24.    Noi  r45*  BELL  OF  FARE. 

til  


FIRST  COURSE. 

Spring  S.oupy 

Removed  with 

A  Rump  of  Beef, 
a  la  Mantua. 


Red  Mullet  in 
Paper. 


Scorch  Collops. 


Raised  Pie. 


Poulet  d.  la 
DuchesseT 


Pai6 
goodevcau. 


Fish, 

Removed  with 

A  Chine  of  Mutton^ 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Two  Chickens. 


New  Potatoes. 


Craj  Fish. 


Retifie  Pudding. 


Anchovj  Toast. 


Asparagus, 


Two  Ducklings. 


859 


MAY  25.    No.  146.  BILL  OF  FARK 


FIRST  COURSE.     • 
IVhite  Giklet  Soupy 

Leg  of  Lamb  boiled^  Lain 
friedj  and  Spinach* 


Fiilet  of  Mut- 
ton and  Cu- 
cumber Sauce. 


Three  Pigeons 
Ur<i«d,  ftfidtt 

Ragoiit  of 
CooLb'  Combs. 


niiio|es« 


Grenadine 
glased,  and- 
Sorrel  Sauce. 


ItfatelotofEel. 


Fish^ 

B^sQioved  with 

ji  Loin  of  Vecd, 


k^ 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Roasted  Chickens. 


Asparagus. 


Khubarb  Pict 


Maccaroni. 


Apricot  Tart. 


Cauliflower 

and  White 

Sauce. 


Tw  Rabbits. 


It 


iJo.  146-  PJ6EONS  LARDED,  AND  A 
RAGOUT  OF  COCK'6.  COMBS. 
Draw,  in  the  legs  oF  the  pigeons^  QDd  fill  the  inside  with{ 
farce  (made  as  directed  in  the  Appendix),  then  lardj 
theni ;  put  abput  half  a  pint  of  second  stock  into  a  stew- 
pan,  the  tiiutmings  from  the  pigeons,  and  of  any  other 
poultry ;  a  slice  or  two  of  lean  ham,  an  onion,  a  faggot  of 
|hyme  and  parsley,  a  few  bay^leaves,^  and  a  few  blfides  of 
mace ;  cover  it  over  with  fiEit  bacon ;  dien  put  in  the  pigeons 
fnd  cover  them  over  with  falbacon^and.paper  over  all:  set 
them  over  a  slow  stove  to  simmer  until  tender ;  wheni 
done  take  them  up,  and  finish  as  all  other  lardings ;  put  the 
ragoiit  on  the  dibh  and  then  the  pigeons;  garnish  \yith  pasteJ 

.  N.  B.  Sirajn  ttie.  Uquor  thjit  the  pigeons  were  done  in  l- 
skim  the  fat  off,  and  reduce  th|e  other  p^rt  nearly  to  aglaze,] 
and  put  it  to  the  ragoftt^  by  way  of  giving  tbQ  fla^ur  ofl 


1 


QCff 
MAY  26.    No.  147.  BILL  OF  FARK 


FIRST  COUliSB. 

J 

White  Vermicelli  Soupy 

Removed  with 
J  Fillet  of  Veal. 


Petit  Fk\€8  of 
S«veetbread. 

Mutton  Cutlets 

i£  Piquant  Sauce. 

• 

1 

Tongue  glazed,  &c. 

Tenderone*  of 
Lamb  «nd 
-    Mushrooms. 

Kisoles. 

SECOND  COURSE. 

Two  Rabbits. 


French  Beans. 


Gooseberry  Tart. 


Chantiily  Cake. 


Spanish  Fritters. 


Fishy 

Removed  with 

A  Sinoin  of  Beef, 


Spinach  and 
Croutons. 


' 


Ribs  of  Lamb* 


MAY  27.    No.  148.    BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Asparagus  Soup^ 

Removed  with 

A  Homy  braised  and  glazed. 


White  Collops 
k  Mushrooms, 


Ox  Ronips 
and  Cabbage. 


SECOND  COUa&E. 


Two  Chickens.^ 


Ragoiit  MeII6 


ill. 


Asparagus. 


Three  Chickena 
a  la  Rf  ine. 


Breast  of  tiamb 

rolled,  Cutlets 

larded,  and 

Sorrel  Sauce. 


ASoutieofSole 
&  ta  Italiemie. 


Fishy 

Removed  with 

Chine  of  Mutton. 


Apricot  Tart. 


New  Potatoes. 


'Uam  and 
poached  Eggs. 


Green  Goose. 


•w 


UGl 


Ifo.  148-    ASPARAGUS  SOUP,  CLEAR, 

Boil  a  quart  of  asparagus  peas  in  about  two  quarts  of 
the  best  stock  ;  when  the  asparagus  peas  are  quite  tender, 
put  about  one  pint  more  of  good  jtock  to  them^  and  a 
luoip  of  sugar* 


MAY  28.    No.  149.    BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Spring  Soupy 

Removed  with 

A  Loin  of  Fefd. 


Tenderones  of 

VetA  md 

Mushrooms. 


Lamb  Cutlets 

aod  Cucumber 

Siince. 


Kaised  Pie  ot 
Maccaroni. 


Small  Mutton 
Pies. 


Capilotade  of 
Rabbit. 


Fish, 

Removed  with 

Ribs  of  Be€f. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Two  Chickens^ 


Cauliflower  and 
Sauce. 


Asparaguir 


Savo^  Cake. 


French  £eaos. 


JLi 


Mushrooms. 


Two  Ducklings* 


203 


MAY  29.    No.  150.    BILL  OF  FARE. 

• M 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Flemish  Sptipy 

Removed  witli 
ffeef  Tremblanc  and  Jloois, 


Scorch  Collops. 

Qtienels  of 
Fowl  and 
Italian  Saoc^. 

Meek  of  Veal 
a  la  B<»ihcme1h 

Blanqnet  of 
Veal. 

Rabbits  a  la 

D\)ehe«&o,  and 

Mushrooms. 

Fishy 

Removed  with 

j4  Leg  of  Mutton, 


•  m  »■ 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Pigeons, 


Cheesecakes. 


New  Potatort. 


5eily. 


Spinach  and 


Rice  Fritters 
glattd. . 


Shoulder  of  Lttmb, 


MAY  30.    I^o.  151.     BILL  \)F  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 


'    ■     m 


Soup  Julieny 

Removed  with 

A  Loin  of  Veal. 


Petit  Pat^s. 


Swb^t  breads 
larded,  glazed, 
and  an  Emince. 


Haunch  of 

Lamb 

larded,  and 

Cucumber 

Sauce. 


Raised 
Pie. 


Hara 
braised, 
glazed, 

and 

Greene. 


Two  Chickens 

boiled,  and 
Tarragon  Sauce. 


Risoles  fried 
in  Paste. 


Fishy 
Removed  with 

Roast  Beef, 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Two  Turkey  PouItSy 

one  larded. 


A  Fondue. 


Asparagni. 


Apricot  Tart 


Triae. 


Gooseberrv 
Tart. 


French  Beans. 


Fat  Livers 
in  a  Case. 


TvDo  Rabbits. 


263 


.MAY  31-    No.  1.52.    BILL  OdF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Soup  Sante, 

Reniuved  wirh 

A  Leg  of  Lamb  boiled^  Loin 
fried,  and  Spinach, 


Soulies  uf 
Mutton  and 
Cacuniber. 


Veal  Olives, 

and  Ruvigot 

Siuce. 


Petit  Pkt«s.      { 


S£COND  COURSE. 


Fricassee  of 

Chicken  and 

Sweetbread, 

larded. 


Beef  CoJlops. 


Fishy 
Removed  with 
ji  Chihe  of  Mutton, 


Two  Ducklings, 


Asparagus. 


I 


Anchovj  Toast. 


Ratifie  PaJding. 


Prawns. 


Cauliflower 

and  White 

Sauce. 


A  Guinea  Fowl. 


No.  152-    RISOLES  FRIED  IN  PASTE. 

Roll  out  some  pu£f  paste  about  the  thickness  of  a  crown 
piece ;  brush  it  over  with  egg ;  cut  it  out  with  a  cutter 
in  the  shape  of  a  cutlet ;  put  about  a  tea-spoonful  on  an 
3mii%ce  on  each  piece ;  then  cut  out  as  many  more^  and 
ay  them  over  the  other ;  brush  the  top  over  with  egg,  and 
sprinkle  them  over  with  fine  bread  crumbs ;  fry  them  in 
ard  of  a  nice  gold  colour.  Fry  some  parsley;  put  the 
isoles  round  the  dish^  and  the  parsley  in  the  middle. 

N.B.  An  emince  left  from  a  former  dinner  will  answer 
he  purpose. 


204 


JUNE 

1.     No.  153. 

BILL  OF  FARE-- 

FIRST  COURSE. 

SECOND  COURSE. 

Asparagus  Soup, 

Removed  wiili'FlSH, 
Removed  with 

A  Haunch  of  Lamb,  larded, 

and  Chervil  Sauce. 

Two  Turkey  PoulU^ 

oue  larded. 

Two  Sweetbread.* 

larded,  and 

Sorrel  Sauce. 

Three  Breasts  of 

Fowl  larded, 

and  Asparagus 

Peiii». 

A  Savo^ 
Cake. 

Carmel  Basket 
of  Pastry. 

■ 

French  Beans. 

Asparagus. 

Lamb  Cuilels 

and  Cucumber 

Sauce. 

Petit  Pftt^s. 

Atletsof 
Palates. 

• 

Dressed 

Lobster. 

BrilkelotBeef, 
Tremblanc,  and 
'   Roots. 

TwoMecksof 
LambalaChe- 
veanx  de  Frize. 

Cederata  Cream. 

Jelly  ay  Marbre. 

A  Soutie  of 

Sole 
a  la  Bieine. 

A  Soutie  of 

Fowl  and 

Mushrooms. 

• 

Fondues  inCa8e^ 

Ragout  Melle. 

Uani  braued, 
glazed,  and 

Coulis. 

Two  Ciiicktns 

and 
Tarraeon  Sance. 

• 

Two  Ducklings. 

Pigeons. 

Raised  Pie,  will 
Maccaroni. 

A  Raised  Pie 
with  Giblets. 

RagoC^t  of 
Sweetbread. 

Fondue 
in  Cases. 

Two  Chickens 
a  la  Reine. 

Fillet  of  Veal 
a  la  Daube. 

Souties  of  Rabbit 
and  Mushrooms 

A  Souiie  of  Sal- 
mon and  Capers. 

Jell^  au  Marbre. 

Rhenish  Cream. 

Breast  of  Veal  A 
Ravigot  Sauce. 

A  Capon,  with 
a  RaefiOf. 

Dressed  Crab. 

Small  Omelets. 

Petit  Pki6s. 

Lamb  Cut  lets  & 
Cucumber  Sauce. 

Asparagus. 

French  Beans. 

Four  Pigeons 

larded,  and 

A^parae'W  P'as. 

Grenadines 
and 
Sorrel  Sauce. 

Carmel  Basket 
of  Pastry. 

.  A  Savoy 
Ca-ke. 

.^-M   .  *    «                 /^                            ^       •            ^ITf             «                            1 

GihletSoup 

Removed  ^ 
Remov 

A  Chine  q 

a  ia  I  ortue, 

with  FISH, 
cd  with 

f  Mutton. 

Two  Turkey  Poults^ 

one  landed. 

«65 


No.  153.    ASPARAGUS  SOUP. 

Boil  a  quart  of  asparagus  peas  in  about  three  pints  oC 
stock;  when  nearly  done  enough  to  go  through  the  tammy, 
put  in  the  crumb  of  a  French  roll ;  let  it  boil  a  few  mi* 
nutes^  then  rub  it  through  the  tammy ;  then  put  it  into  a 
small  soup-pot;  add  a  pint  of  asparagus  points  and  a  pint 
of  stock ;  put  it  on  the  stove-fire  to  boil  gently  until  the 
asparagus  points  are  quite  tender ;  make  a  labon  of  three 
yolks  of  e^s  and  half  a  pint  of  crefm.;,  when  strained, 
put  a  few  spoonsful  of  beshemeH  to  it ;  Uben  put  it  in  the. 
soup-pot^  keep  stirring  while  putting  it  in^  and  while  on 
the  fire  until  it  comes  to  a  boil ;  then  tfike  it  off  and  put 
the  soup-pot  into  a  stew-pan  of  hot  water  to  Veep  hot  un« 
tO  wanted;  put  a  lump  of  sugar  in. 

« 

A  RAISED  PIE  WITH  GIBLETS. 

Prepare  the  giblets  the  same  a^  for  soup;  then  put  tbetH 
into  a  stew-pan  with  a  pint  of  stock ;  set  them  on  the 
stove  to  stew  gently  until  ^uite  tender  and  the  stock  nearly 
reduced ;  then  add  a  suSiqient  quantity  of  coulis ;  season  it 
with  Cayenne  pepper  and  a  little  salt  if  wanted;  rm^t  the 
^ie  and  fill  it  wilh  bran ;.  wlien  baked,  take  the  bran  out ; 
>rush  it  well  with  the  paste  brush ;  then  put  in  the  giblets, 
md  six  yolks  of  eggs  boiled  hard. 

A  SOUTIES  OF  SALMON  AND  CAPERS. 

Cut  thin  slices  from  a  piece  of  salmon  that  has  been 
oKt  and  the  bone  taken  out ;  butter  a  soutie  pan  and 
irinkle  it  with  chopped. shalots,  thyme,  pirsley,  and 
kushroomsj  and  pepper  and  salt;  set  it  on  the  stovo 
K>ut  five  minutes  before  wanted ;  when  it  has  been  on 
e  stove  about  two  minutes,  turn  it  and  let  it  stay  about 
ree  ininules;  then  take  it  off  and  put  it  round  the  dish; 

N 


see 

scrape  the  herbs^  &c.  into  a  stew-pan ;  add  a  ^little  coufis 
and  a  few  capers ;  give  it  a  boil ;  and  put  it  in  the  middle 
of  the  -dish  the  salmon  is  on, 

ATLETS  OF  PALATES. 

>  Cut  two  palated^  that  have  been  braised  or  boiled  (uii- 
1^1  quite  tender)  ihto  ^mall  round  pieces  with  a  paste  cut- 
ter ;  put  them  oh  the  atlet  skewer  (six  skewers  wiM  make  a 
dish) ;  mix  chopped  psirsTey^  thytne^  mu^brbomsj  shalots^ 
dnd  pepper  and  salt  with  bread  criiTmbs^  dip  the  palates  iu 
sin  egg  that  has  beeh  beat  up'  on  a  t)late ;  then  roll  them  in 
bread  crumbs ;  do  them  twice  over,  drop  clarified  butter 
over  them,  and  put  them  on  the  gridiron  to  broil  over  a 
slow  clear  fire ;  they  should  be  of  a  nice  brown. 

ItAGOtFT  OF  SWEET-BREAD. 

'  Cut  a  long  sweetbread  in  thin  slices,  and  put  a  little 
sauce  Tourney  to  it ;  give  it  a  boil  up ;  squeeze  a  little 
lemon  juice  in;  put  a  little  pepper  and  salt,  a  dust 
of  sugar,  and  a  drop  of  igarlick  vinegar;  garnish  with 
croutons. 


367* 

jtlNiE  2.    No.  1#4.    BILL  OF  FARE. 


Fiasrr  cqurse. 


Vermicelli  Soupy 

Removed  with 

Fishy 

Bemof  ed  with 
ALeiHof  Veal. 


T 


Lamb  Cptlets  & 
■'^ucii  m  ber  Sauce, 


Tiro  Chicken» 
a  la  Heine* 


fiampof  Beef 
a  la  Mantua. 


Petit  Pittas. 


Neck  of  Mutton 

oraiseo  ^  aoci  a 

Piirle  of 

F«^atoe8. 


Breast  of  Veal 
glaoad'r^nd  a 
IUgo(it.  - 


•  I 


., 


Volevent. 


A  Horn  braii»d, 
glazed  >.  and 

Dollii.-^: 


•  ]>gof  Lstmb 
a  fa  Keiae. 


Crockets. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Two  Duifklingt. 


Basket  of 
Pastrj. 


Cauliflower. 


Apricot  T^tkTU 


Two  Rabbits. 


Orange  Souses. 


French  B^ans. 


Gibiet  Soup  4  la  1-9^^^*^% 
l&moT^d  wi|I^ 

.    .  RemaT£d.)utb. 
A  Sirloin  ojf  Beff. 


Wax  BaaS«t  of 
Gray- fifth. 


Wax  Basket  of 
Prawns. 


^     Asparagus. 


Jelly. 


Shoulder  of 
].Ainb. 


Gooseberry  Tart. 


Mushrooms. 


Basket  of 
Pa^rv. 


Two  Turkey  PoultSy 

one  larded. 


-^ 


.>  -i 


_ 

'i      [     1  c    .  .    i 


.^    . 


»  ^2 


im 


JUNE  5.    No.US.    BILL  OF  PARK. 


FIRST  COURSE. 


WkiUGibkt  Soupy 

Remoted  with 

A  Fillet  of  Veal. 


Small  Mutton 


Ox  Kumps  and 
Cabba{;e,  Ace. 


Tongua  glaiedf 
and  Turnips. 


Harricat  of 
Mutton. 


Crockett  of 
Veal  aud  Ham. 


iFishy 

Removed  with 

Chine  of  Mutton* 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Pigeons. 


Cauliflower  and 
Wlike  Saace. 


AaparmgQS. 


Chantilly 
Basket. 


Spinach  and 
Croutons. 


Haccvoni. 


Two  Chickens. 


JUNE  4.    No,  156,    BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 


B4ce  Soupy 

Removed  with  a 
Calf* 8  Head  hashed^ 
and  grilled* 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Lamb  CutleU 
and  Spinach. 


Fricassee  of 
Chicken. 


Pigeon  Pie 
raised. 


Two  Ducklings. 


t^zr\\  ^^^^ 


White  Collopt. 


Fillets  of 
MackereL 


1 


Fishy 

Removed  with 

J  Sirloin  of  Beef. 


M  *l    ■■■■ 


Jc%. 


Peas. 


French  Beans. 


Ribs  cf  Lamb, 


^■w*^ 


2Gd 


Ko.  156.    LAMB  CUTLETS  AND  SPINACIL 

They  are  cut  from  the  loin^  and  fried  of  a  nice 
brown ;  season  them  with  pepper  and  salt  on  both  sides  ; 
put  the  spinach  on  the  dish  and  the  cutlets  round  the  sid€«. 

PEAS, 

The  water  should  boil  before  the  peas  are  put  in ;  put 
a  little  salt  in  the  water,  and  about  half  an  ounce  of  sugar  ; 
the;  should  be  drained  particularly  dry  from  the  waten 

JUNE  5.    No.  157.   BILL;  6F  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Spring  Soupy 
Kenoved  %niIi. 

Stewed  Beef 

and  Harricot  Ruots. 


Thre« 
Pigeons  Urded, 
glazed*  and  As- 
paragus Peat,  j 


Veal  and  Ham 
Cotlert,  and  Pi- 
quant Sauce. 


Leg  of  Lamb 

roasted,  and  Cu- 

camber  Sauce. 


Poulet&la 
PucbeM. 


Fillet  of  Beef 

lardedf  and 

Spanish  Sauce. 


F^H. 
Bemoved  with 

A  JLoin  of  Veal, 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Two  Ducklings, 


French  Beans. 


Peas. 


Asparagus.      I  I     Cauliflower. 


Ribs  of  Lamb* 


n3 


L 


«yo 


JUNE  6.    Now  158,    BILL  OF  iFARE, 


FIRST  COlJRSE. 


S^ap  a  la  Retney 

Removed  with 

A  Leg  of  Lamb  boiled^ 
and  Spinach* 


Mutton 

Catiets  and 

Piquant  Sauce. 


Two  Chickens 
a  la  Reine. 


Tongue  glazed, 
and  Greens. 


Sweetbreads 

larded,  glazedj 

&c. 


Tcnderones  of  \ 
Veal  and 
Peas. 


Fish, 

Removed  with 

Roast  Beef. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Poulard. 


.•np»a*i««M«*«a 


Cauliflower 
and  Sauce. 


Asparagus. 


Rhenish  CreamJ 


.Peti. 


New  Pqjtatoca. 


Two  RabhUs. 


No.  J 58.    TENDERONES  OF  VEAL  AND 

STEWED  PEAS. 

Pot  a  lnTge  spootrftifof  slock  intb  a  ^tew-pao,  about  an 
oance  of  butter^  a  »Hce  of  lean  ham,-4i-pint  of  -peas,  some 
chopped  onion,  and  the  hearts  of  two  cabb^ige-lettuce,  set 
the  stew-pan  over  the  stove  to  stew  Very  slow^  when  thery 
have  been  on  about  ten  minutes,  put  a  littie  sti>ck  •  aiid  a 
lump  of  sugars  M^b^n  the  peas  are  done »  put  a.  little ^liece 
of  flour  and  butter  in  ;  give  ;it  one  boil  up ;  ^laze  the  ten- 
derones ;  put  them  round  the  disbj'  and  the  p^as  in  the 

'  iiniiui  Vi  • 


271 


JUNE  7.    No.  159.    BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COtJRSE. 


Asparagus  Sotip^ 

RemoTed  with 

J  Fillet  of  VeaL 


BfaoqnvtofFow] 
and  Cucumber. 


Capilotade  of 
Rabbit. 


Stur£eon 
s^  la  Broch. 


Hashed  Beef 
&br9i1edj^diies. 


Leg^jof  Mutiosu 


SECOND   COUaSE. 


0        • 


Four  Pigeons* 


Maccaroni. 

« 

fastrj: 

» 

-Odobc  berry 
Crea:T»  in  Cups. 

• 

1 

1 

^Pastry. 

Peas,- 

Q«inea  Fowl,  larded. 


No.  159.    GOOSEBERRY  CREAM. 

Sc&y  the  gooseberries,  and  rub  them  through  the  tammy; 
put  a  sufficient  quantity  of  cream  to  them,  so  as  to  have 
them  the  thickness  of  a  custard ;  sweeten  them^  grate  a 
littjie  nutmeg  in^  and  put  it  in  custard  cups. 


HH 


JUNE  8.    No.  160.    BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 


A  Tureene  of  Calves  Feet 
'Und  Asparagus  Vointty 

Repaoved  witha 

Hanif  hrnised,  Sfc. 


Lamb  CtttJ«ts. 


Two  Chickens 
&  U  Reine. 


p«tit  pat^?. 


A  Dack  boned, 
I     forced,  and 
Tormps. 


Tenderones  of 
Veal  and  Peas. 


Fish^ 

Removed  with 

A  Sirloin  of  Btef. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


A  Green  Goose* 


Ragout  Melle. 


Asparagiw. 


[  Jelly, 


Canliflower 
a  la  Flamond. 


Fonda« 
in  Caaet. 


Shoulder  of  Lamb* 


-•i- 


JUNE  9.    No.  lei.  BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 

Fleinish  Soup^ 
Removed  with 

A  Haunch  of  Lamb 

larded,  and  Cucamber  Snnce. 


Stewed  Beef 
Steaks. 


Sweetbreads 

larded,  glazed, 

&  Sorrel  Sauc«. 


Salmon  and 
Fillets  of  Soles. 


Three  Pigeons 

larded,  and  As- 

para&us  Peas. 


Harricot  of 
Mutton. 


I  A  Loin  of  Veal. 


SECONl)  COURSE. 
Two  Turkey  Poults, 

one  larded. 


Fondue  in  Caset. 


French  Bcana. 


Ginger 
Sonles. 


Peas.  I    Picked  Crab. 

Two  Ducklings. 


S73 


JUNE  10.    No.  16«.   BILL  OF  FARE. 


T 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Vermicelli  Soup^ 

Removed  with 

Sievted  Beef  and  Roots. 


White  CoII«pf. 


Fricsndeao  snd 
Sorrel  Sauce. 


Raised  Fie 

■   ajaFran^oise 


• 


■W     ■    ■     ■    '." 


FHIetef  Beef 
larded,  and 

Spanish  Sauce. 


Fricassee  of 
Chicken. 


* » 


Fish, 

RemoTcd  wUh- 

A  Chine  of.  Mufton, 


SECOND  COURSE. 


TzDo  Chickens^  one  larded. 


Mushrooms. 


Peas. 


Chant  i 


lljrBasket.  t 


French  Beans. 


An  Omelet 
Sou£Bes. 


7200  Rabbiii. 


-> " '  '"  '» '* 


JUNEiJ.   JIo.163.   BILL  OF  FARE* 


FIRST  COURSE. 


<»-<*- 


Spring  Soupy., 

Removed  .wiUi  . 

Beef  Tremblanc  and  Rooit.\ 


Pigeom  a  la  . 
Soiitie  of  MeB,  )  I  Crapondine  & 


Mu^hcooxoa. 

■ 


■^^■'^.•'^f^w^"^^ 


^F— ^?««IP 


tUimb  Cutlets  & 
^ucamberStfuce 


Tenderones  of 
Lamb  i  la  iWrne. 


Fish, 
Removed  with 


SECOND  COU«»R 


fc— ^"^ 


Tslso  DuckHng$. 


Cauliflower  and 
White  Sauce. 


Asparagus. 


Jelly, 


» »— ». 


Ribs  of  LamXu 


i  A  Fillet  of  Veal.        , .,         ^ 


274 


JUNE  n.    No.  m:    BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Asparagus  Soup^ 

•  Kemoyed  with 

A  Ham  glazed,  and  Beans. 


Small   Mattori 
Pies. 


Tend  crones  of 

Veal  and 
"Stew«d  Peas. 


Two 
Sweet- 
breads a 
la  Heine, 
garnished 


Chartreuse. 


Two 

Chiclens 
alaReine! 


SECOND  COURSE. 


TWo  Turkeif  PouHsj 
one  larded. 


Masbroomsand 
White  Sauce. 


Asparagus. 


Veal  Olives  and 
Sauce  Piquant. 


Petit  Pat6s 


■  i'    y. 


Fish, 

Removed  with  a 

Haunch  of  Tjamh^ 
. '  Jafdedy  S(c. . 


;i 


Apricot 
Tart. 


Chaotiily     Oaoaeberr^ 


Cake. 


Tart. 


Peas. 


Cauliflower. 


Often  Govse. 


1 


.p  i» 


JUNE  13.    No.  165.    BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Italian  Soup, 

"Kemoved  v»iih 

A  Loin  of  Veal' ' 


■>i .  I  * 


Ri  spies. 


-Poulard  ifa . 
Dpchesse.    , 


Neck  ot  Mutt Jli 
-boUad.  .and 

nrashedfTtirnrps. 


->-*■ 


Tenderonea  U 
stewed  Teas. 


— . — 4 

Calves  Feet 
aa  Gratin. 


f 


.p  ■  ■*■■ 


ReiQove'd  with 
-Rmurf-Betrf. 


mmtmmiSmm 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Pigpons, 


Mushrooms. 


3 


■  »..p> 


Peas. 


C?ram.'  I  Savoy  C.le._   |   Jelljr. 


Two .  Ducklings. 


275 


JUNE  14.    No.  166.    BILL  OF  FARE, 


FlUST  COURSE. 


Green  Pea  Soupy 

.Removed  with 

A  Ham  glazed^  and  Beans* 


Semelis 
and  Cucumber 
Sauce. 


A  Koulard  of 

Mutton  roasted, 

Sc  French  Bean^ 


A  Raised  Pie 
with  Pigeons. 


Or  Rumps 
and  Cabbage. 


Petit  P(it6s. 


Removed  with 

jl  Chine  of  MuitQn» 


SECOND  COURSE. 


A  Capon^ 


Eggs  a  la  Trip. 


Peas, 


A  Souffle  of 
Hice  and  Apples 


PreDch  Beans* 


Prawns. 


Ribs  of  Lamb. 


No.  166.    GREEN  PEA  SOUP. 

Put  about  half  a  pound  of  lean  ham^  cut  in  thin  slices^ 
in  a  small  soup-pot ;  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter^  a 
pint  of  good  stocky  a  quart  of  peas^  four  or  five  onions 
chopped  fine,  and  three  cabbage  lettuces;  put  the  soup- 
pot  on  the  fire  to  simmer  gently  until  the  stock  is  nearly 
reduced  ;  then  put  in  two  quarts  of  good  stock  and  the 
crumb  of  iwo  French  rolls  ;  let  it  boil  gently  for  an  hour ; 
then  boil  two  handsful  of  Spinach,  when  done  strain  the 
water  from  it  and  press  it  between  two  plates^  rub  the 
soup  through  a  tammy,  and  the  spinach  with  it,  to  give  it 
a  green  colour ;  boil  a  pint  of  younger  peas  than  the  soup 
was  made  of,  in  a  pint  of  good  stock ;  when  done,  add 
the  peas  and  stock  to  the  soup  ;  put  in  a  little  sugar,  and 
give  all  a  boil  up ;  add  a  little  salt  if  wanted. 

N.B.  If  the  soup  is  for  meagre,  leave  the  stock  and 
bam  out,  and  use  a  double  quantity  of  peas,  lettuce,  aiid 
onions. 


276 


A  ROULARD  OF  MUTTON  ROASTED,  AND 

FRENCH  BEANS. 

Boil  tlw  French  beans,  and  put  them  into  cottlis :  put 

K  n^^  ^^^  ^^'  ^^^  ^^^  mmon  in  tlie  middle. 
iV.B.    The   mutton  is  prepared  the  game  wav  as  r 
roulard  of  veaL 


JUNE  15.    No.  167.    BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COUJft.SE. 

Vermicelli  Soup^ 
Removed  with 

A  Rump  of  Beef  a  la  Daube 
au  Choux, 


■«*to« 


SECOND  COURSE. 

I 

Tzco  ChickenSy 

one  Urded. 


Poulet  a  Ja 
Duchess. 


JWjMot  of 
Kabbit. 


A  Raised  Pif, 
with  M«tton 
and  Potatoes. 


HoTficot  «f 
Mutton. 


Beef  Olives  unri 
Piquant  Sauce. 


Removed  with 

j4  Loin  of  Veal. 


Mushrooms. 


A  Trifle. 


Asparagus. 


Cauliflowet  and 
White  Saoce. 


Four  Pigeons. 


1 


No.  167.    MATELOT  OF  RABBITS. 

Prepare  two  rahbits  as  for  a  fricassee ;  put  them  into 
a  8te.v.paai,  wrth  about  an  ounce  of  buu;rf  half  a^oSe 
of  mu8hrooms,aboul  two  dozen  of  button  onion*,  and  a  few 
spoonsful  of  stock  ;  cow  it  over  and  put  it  on  the  sto^ 
^  simmer  genUy,  until  the  rabbit  is  tender ;  then  take  iJ 
tfrom  the  fire  and  pour  the  liquor  into  another  stew.p^ 


«77 

anci  &el  it  en  the  stove ;  add  as  much  flour  as  will  dry  up 
4be  butter ;  then  add  as  much  stock  as  is  sufficient  for  the 
quantity  of  sauce  wanted ;  let  it  boil  for  a  few  minutes ; 
squeeze  a  little  lemon  juice  in^  and  put  a  little  Cayenne 
pepper  and  salt  if  wanted  ;  put  it  to  the  rabbit  and  give  it 
a  boil  upu  Put  the  rabbit  on  the  disb^  and  the  mush- 
rooms and  onions  over  ii. 


JUNE  l«.    No.  168.    BILL  OF  FARE, 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Jhparagus  Soapy 

SteiDuved  with 

A  Leg  of  Lamb  boiled^ 
Loin  friedj  andSpinadi, 


Two  Sweet- 
breads larded, 

glazed,  and 
Asparagus  Peas. 


Reolard  of 

Mutton  and 

Cucumber 

Sauce. 


Nedi  of  Veal 
a  la  i$e»^6nieU.  ; 


Tongue  glazed, 
and  Greens.  ' 


Tito  Chickens 
a  la  Reiiie. 


Removed  wiih 

Ribs. of  Beef. 


SECOND  COURSE* 


Quails* 


Mushrooms. 


Peas. 


Chantilly  Basket 


Asparagus 


"II 


Ragout  Mell^. 


ji  Green  Goose, 


■"•"r* 


278 


JUNE  17.    No.  169.    BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 


S<mp  Sanity 

Kenioyed  with 

A  Fillet  of  Veal 

r   ■  ■ 

• 

Petit  P&tes. 

White  Collops 
and  Cucamber. 

" 

, 

Ham  braised, 

glazed,  and 

Beans. 

Two  Chickens' 
alaReine.' 

Lamb  Catlets 

glazed,  and 

Asparagus  Feasj 

Fishy 

Removed  with 

A  Chine  of  Mutton. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Two  Rabbits. 


Pastry, 


Peas. 


CoJd  Lobster. 


Asparagus. 


Gooseberry 
Cream. 


A  Shoulder  of  Lamb. 


JUNE  18.    No.  170.    BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURS 

E. 

nledy 
nach. 

Mutton 
e. 

SEC 

OND  COURSE. 

i 

kJA<*<w*AiaA  0^       ^  j^^Ma^ 

Henioved  with 

A  Leg  of  Lamb  be 
Loinfriedy  and  S pi 

Capon. 

Compdte  of 
Pigeons  and 
Mushrooms. 

Small 
Pi 

Rhenish  Cream. 

Asparagus. 

Chartreuse. 

Savoy  Cake. 

Risoles  fried  in 
Paste. 

Capilotadtt 
of  Rabbit. 

-French  Beans 
ill  Sauce. 

JHj. 

Fi 

Keinov 
Ribs  0 

ed  with 

f  Beef 

A  Shoulder  of  Lamb. 

S79 


JUNE  19.    No.  171.    BILL  OF  FARE. 


^IBST  COURSE. 


Jsparagus  Soup^ 

Removed  with 

A  Ham  braised^  giazedy 

and  Spinach. 


Sweetbreads 

lardjed,  glazed, 

and  Asparagus 

P«as. 


Harricot  of 
Mtttton. 


SECOND  CCJURSE. 


Pigeons. 


Fillet  of 
Veal. 


Beef  OJlves  aod 
Spanish  Sauce. 


Fillets  of  l^owl 
larded»aiul 
Mash  rooms. 


I'll   mi^     i      '■■'■      ■        I 

]  Tishl 

Removed  with 
Brisket  of  Beef  Tremblanc^ 

and  Sauce  if  acbisi 


JUNE  20.    No.  172.    BILL  OF  FARE, 


FIRST  COURSE. 
Green  Pea  Soupf . 

RemoTed  with 

.d  Chine  .of  Lamby 

and  Cucufiher  Sauce. 


TcndcToncs  of 

Teal  and -Stewed 

Peas. 


Chickens 
a  la  Reine. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Two  Turkey  PouUsy 

on^  larded. 


Peas. 


Xougue  glazed* 
and  Cabbai^e* 


'wo  Sweetbreads 
ornsmentedy 
nd  While  Sauce. 


Mutton  Cutlets 

and 
Sauce  Piquant. 


*■■     ^  L>-*<"'  ^«»*— 


-Removed  with 

Ribs  of  Beef. 


French  Beans. 


P"'ry   ""/J:!!"'  \  i^t'y- 


Cream.       | 


Cauliflower 
and  Sauce. 


Aspafagus.- 


Ribs  of  Lamb. 


S80 


JUNE  21.    No.  173.    BILL  OF  FARE. 


>-««M*Mi^MM*. 


1 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Flemish  Soupj 

Removed  with 

Lain  of  Veal  a  la  Beshemell. 


Beef  Olives 
and  Potatoes. 


Tenderones  of 
.  ll.amb  and 
Aiparagus  Peas. 


I 


Raised  Pie  with 
BecfStfaks. 


Fricassee  of 
Chicken. 


Harricot  of 
Morton. 


Fishj 
RemoTcd  with 

J  Chine  of  Mutton. 


SECOND  COURSE, 


Tfeo  Ducklings. 


PickedCr-ab. 


Spanish 
Friters. 


booffle.    j    '^■"'^'•- 


AsparagiM. 


Pra 


wns. 


Tzoo  Chickens^ 


JUNE  22.    No.  174.    BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Soup  SjOMii.^ 

Removed  with 

ji  Leg  of  Lamb  roasted^ 

and  French  Bf  ans. 


White  Collops 
and  Cucumber. 


Fillets  of 
Mackerel. 


SECOND  COURSE, 


!R»o  Turkey  PouUs^ 

one  larded. 


Fondue 
in  Cases. 


Rump  ut  Beef 
4  la  DHiibe,  &c. 


Pigeons  a  la  — 
Crapaadinei  and 
Sauce  Piquant. 


Asparagoa. 


Ratifie  Pudding. 


Fricassee  of 
Chicken. 


Fish^ 
Removed  with 


Peas. 


An  Omelet. 


J  Fillet  of  Veal 


ShotMer  of  Lamb* 


■•••^^••(^-"ii^i 


tsi 


JUNE  «5.    No.  .175.    BILL  OF  f  ARS. 


4M» 


I       FIRST  COURSE. 

iteiBoved  with 

J  Hambraisedy  and  Beans, 


Two  Sweet- 
breads lardedf 
and  Sorjel  Sttoce. 


IRftised 

Pie  m  la 

Fran9oise 


Neck  OS' 

Mutton  and 

a  Pur^eof 

Turnips. 


Eaifted 

Pie  with 

Macca- 

roni. 


Two  Cliickeiu 
a  la  Reiue. 


Lamb  Cotlet» 
and  Cucumbers. 


Fish^ 

Removed  with 

A  Sirloin  of  Beef. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


QutUh. 


Asparagus. 


Pickjed  Crab. 


Peas. 


Cherry  Tart. 


Jell^  ao 
Marbre. 


Rati6e 
Pudding. 


lalian 
Cream. 


Currant  Tart. 


Cauliflower 
and  Saqce. 


Dressed  Lobster. 


French  Beans, 


A  Green  Goose. 


JUNE  24.    No.  376.    BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE, 


Soup  SantS^ 

Rt'moved  with 

d  Haunch  of  Lamb  kurdedj 

and  Cucumber  Sance. 


Fricassee  of 
Chicken. 


Pigeons  a  la 

Crapaudine  and 

Sauce  Piquant. 


breast  of 

Veal 
Rago0t. 


A  Raised  Pie 
a  la  Frai\9oise. 


Stewed 
Beef  and 

Sauce 
Hachis. 


Petit  ^i^s. 


Lambs'  Feet  and 
Asparagus  Peas. 


Fishy 

Hemoved  with 
Roast  Beef. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Tzco  Ducklings. 


Mushrooms. 


Peas. 


Cherry 
Tart. 


Ba5ket  of 
Pastry. 


Goose- 
berry 
Cream. 


French  Beans. 


Maccaroni. 


A  Capon* 


382 


JUNE  25.    No,  177.    BILL  OF  FARE. 


Vermicelli  Soup^ 

.  Removed  with 

5  A  Ham  braised^  and  Beans, 


FIRST  COURSE; 


White  Collops 
and  Cacomber. 


Semelsand 
Sauce  Poivrade. 


A  Raised 

Beef 
Steak  Pie. 


Two 

ChiclEens 
a  la  Reine. 


A  Raised 

Pigeon 

Pie. 


Volevent  of 
Sweetbread. 


Souties  of 
Sole. 


Fi$h^ 

Removed  with 

A  Chine  of  Mutton* 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Quails. 


JeUy. 


AChantiiljr   I    Blanc 
Basket.      I  liffangf 


Cauliflower  and 
White  Sauce. 


Asparagvf. 


Tito  Rabbits. 


JUNE  £6.    No.  ns.    BILL  OF  J:ARE, 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Giblet  Soup  J 

Removed  ivith 
A  FiHet  of  Veal. 


Raised  Pie 

of  Mutton 

and  Potatoes. 


Ox  Palates 
rolled,  forced, 
and  a  Rngodt. 


Two  Necks  of 
Lamb  a  la 

Chevanx  de 

Frize  and 

Cucumber 

Sauce. 


Fillet  of 
Beef  larded, 
and  Spanish 

Saace. 


Filfetsof  Salmon 

rolled,  and 

Caper  Sauce. 


A  Chartreuse  of 
RcM>t8|  &:c. 


Fishy 
Removed  with 
Chine  of  Mutton. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Quails. 


Omelet. 


Asparagus. 


Currant 
Tart. 


Chcrrj 
Tart. 


Peas. 


Peths  fried. 


Two  Rabbits. 


A83 


JUNE  27.    No.  179.    BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 


-  ,-*" 


A  Pur ie  of  Roots ^ 

ReraioTed  vrkh 

d  Mjeg  «f  Lamb  baiMy  Loin 
frUdj  and  Spinach. 


f  r     I      I    >  I         ■ 


I^tit  Pk^s. 


Mfitelot  of 
Babbit. 


A»raaJl 
Ham 
brakidd* 

Beans. 


i[  f5awn.         t         Qr^^ni. 

roasted,  a^dL5fi"i 
Cb'evreuil 

6aace. 


Three 


Cbickeos 

a  U   : 
Heino. 


Scorch 
ColIopB. 


\\ 


Bisoles. 


S^ECOND  COURSE. 


Pigeons. 


Fond^ues  ia 
Cases. 


■■I     !■!! 

Peas. 


Small 
Pastry. 


Blanc 
Man^e. 


•GoQse- 
betrjT 
TaFt. 


French  Beaos. 


Spinacb  in  Boic& 

•  * 


■I      !'"■ 

Hetno'Ted  with 

Roait  Beef, 


Two  Ducklings. 


*9       \ 


'^     n  ;    OH*'  I     ih  m 


No,  J79.    A  PURlEE  OF  ROOTS. 

Pat.a.qufirter  of<a  pounil  of. butter  iato  asteW'fian^ 
half  a;pQuod  of  leaa^hdm^  cut  ^17  fioe^  andhalf  a  pint  of 
best  stock  ;  slice  in  »x  ouions^  aix  heads  of  cdilesry,  end 
thnee  'or  four ;tiar nips ;  shred,  fouc  cabbage  lettucei,  *  ai^ 
a  liandful  of  picked  chervil ;  set  it  on  the  stove  to  siraaier 
very  slow  for  an  hour  and  a  half;  then  put  in  two  quarts 
of  best  stocky  and  the  crumb  of  two  French  rolls ;  let  it 
boil  for  half  an  hour;  then  take  it  off  and  rub  it  through 
the  tammy;  when  done  put  it  into.  a. small  soup-pot; 
then  put  a  pint  of  asparagus  peas  to  boil  in  about  half  a 
pint  of  stock  ;  when  done  put  all  into  the  soup-pot ;  give 
it  a  boil  up  all  together ;  and  put  in  a  small  lump  of 
sugar  and  a  little  salt^  if  wanted^  before  it  is  put  in  tha 
turenne. 


2S4 

A  FAWN  ROASTED  WHOLE,  AND 
CHEVREUIL  SAUCE. 

Ske^vter  the  £^wn  similar  to  a  hare^  and  put  it  on  th# 
spit  as  you  ivould  a  hare  ;  sprinkle  it  with  salt  and  cover 
the  back  6vet  with  sheets  of  bacon,  then  white  paper^  and 
tie  all  on  quite  light  with  packthread ;  when  done  take 
the  paper  and  bacon  off;  baste  it  with  butter ;  then  floor 
and  salt  it. 

N.B.  Make  stuffing  the  same  as  f<Mr  a  hare,  and  fill 
the  inside  with  it»  before  it  is  put  on  the  spit.  Make  the 
sauce  as  follows  : — Put  about  an  ounce,  of  butler  mto  a 
stew-pan,  chopped  parsley,  orange  and  lemon  thyme, 
shalot,  and  four  or  five  mushrooms,  and  some  leaa  ham ; 
about  two  spoonsful  of  stock;  set  the  stew-pan  on  the 
fire  to  simmer  very  slow  for  about  ten  minutes ;  then  put 
as  much  fiour  as  wiU  soak  up  the  butter ;  keep  stirring 
over  the  fire  for  a  few  minutes ;  then  put  in  about  a  pint 
and  a  half  of  very  good  stock,  and  set  it  on  the  fire  to 
boil ;  keep  stirring  it  during  the  time  it  is  on  the  fire  ;  let 
it  boil  for  a  few  minutes ;  then  put  in  about  half  a  gill  of 
Madeira  or  sherry  wine ;  when  it  has  boiled  up,  strain  it 
Ihrough  the  tammy.  Return  it  into  the  stew-pan*  again, 
squeeze  a  lemon  in,  and  put  a  little  sifted  sugar  in  ;  make 
it  hot ;  put  as  much  sauce  in  the  dish  as  is  requisite,  and 
dien, the, fawn..    The  remainder  of  the  «Bluce  send  upia 


tM 


JUNE  28.    No.  180.    BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Soup  Julicfij 

Reoioved  with 

jl  Loin  of  Feal, 


Civet  of  Fawn. 


A  Dock 
boned*  forced 
and  Tuniipa. 


Leg  of 
Leinb    - 
t>«tted« 


Beef  Steak 
Pie. 


CaUeg* 
Head 
bashed 
and 

^lled. 


SECOND  COURSE, 


Two  Chicken$^  one  larded^ 


Caoliflower  and 
White  Sasee. 


Peas. 


Goote« 

berry 

Tart. 


Fowl  i  la 
Besbcpiell, 


Soutiet  of 
Idlutton. 


■     RemoTed  with 
Jl  Chine  of  Mutton. 


Savoy  Gake. 


Cherry 
Tart. 


French  Beans. 


MBshroomt. 


Pigeons* 


■•-r 


Ne.  12a.    A  CIVET  OF  FAWN 

Is  made  from  the  remainder  of  the  fav^'ii  left  from  the 
ij  before.  Cut  the  lawtt  in  Heat  pieceiij  and  put  it  in 
stew-pan,  and  afcw  'vpoonsful  of  stocky  and  set  it  by 
le  side  of  the  stove  to  make  hot,  but  do  not  let  it  boil ; 
ben  bot^'put  it  onihe  disb^  and  chevreuil  sauce  over  it. 


.    L 


JUNE  29. 


No.  181.     BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE, 


,  Green  Pea  Soupy 

Reraoted  vrith 

Rump  of  Beef-ttla  Daubey 

and  Cabbage. 


Bout  Saigneux 

and 
Sauce  Hachis. 


Fricassee  of 
Chicken  and 
Mnsbrooitaa. 


<Uii|iiin»     III 


-with  a 
Ragodt. 


Turnips.     '     ^®'*- 


Tdnd'erones  of 

Jjamb  and 
Asparagus  Peas. 


"■■■^li' 


SECOND  COURSE. 


I       m 


Two  DucklingMm 


Au  Omelet. 


i^rfa 


Asparagus. 


I 


KcTed 
Cjab. 


Cfiaatilly 
Basket. 


Compote  of 
..  -  Eificnnsi . 


FUhy 

B/emoted  with 

A  Chine  qf  MuUon, 


I  I    M  I  ■  ^m^^m^ 


Peat. 


Poached  Egp 
andUAin. 


Two  RubMU. 


JUNE  30.  .  No.  182.     BILL  OF  FARE. 


>x^^ 


FIRST  COURSE, 
Asparagus  Soupy 

Hemoved  with 

A  Ham  braised  and  gkizidy 

and  Beans. 


White  Collops 
and  Cacmnber. 


Petit  9ik^ 


A  Neck  of 

Veal  a  ia 
BeshemelJ. 


I    in      <  Ji 


A  Fawn. 


Chitkens  > 

&Ia 
Beshemell. 


SEeON©  COURSE. 


Small  Matton 
Pies. 


Calves'  Ears  ' 

and 
Italian  Sauce. 


Fishy 

Removed  with 
A  Sirloin  of  Beef* 


Green  G90S€, 


SsoQitfi  Boms. 


Tait. 


Asparagus. 


Cauliflower 
and 
White  Saace. 


Two  Turkey  Poults. 


287 

No.  182.    A  CURRANT  TART 

Shdold  be  made  in  the  same  manner  as  a  gooseberry 
tort  and  a  cherry  tart ;  the  same  short  paste  is  used  for 
both,  and  aU  tarts  that  are  baked  in  a  tart-pan^  are  finished 
in  the  same  manner. 


JULY  1.    No.  183.    BILL  OF  PARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 
Soup  SantSf 

Removed  with 

ji  Hiiunch  of  Lamb  larded^ 
and  Chevreuil  Sauce. 


Petit  Vm%. 


Fillets  of 
Matlon  and 
Cucomber. 


3xChe€k 

and 
-SiMice 
Hacfais 


A  Raited 

Pie  with 

Heef  Steaks. 


I*    t 


Bftast  of 

Veal 
Ragoiited 


••^n 


BeefColIopsb 


.  1 


Risoles 
in  Paste. 


FUh, 

Removed  with 

A  Loin  of  Veal, 

r     ~  ~  nr-      nn-T  vii-o-  i 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Quails. 


Peths 
au  Gratin. 


Peas. 


Cherry 
Tart. 


Rbtoish.    ) 
Cream. 


Currant 
Tart. 


Asparagus. 


Ragodt  Mell^. 


»■  ' ." 


Two  DucklingSi 


fS8 


JULY  «.    No.  184.   BILL  OF  PAflE. 


«h«« 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Giblet  Soupy 

Removed  with 

A  Fillet  of  Veal 


Fricondeau  and 
Sorrel  Sauce. 


Harricot  of 
Mutton. 


Neck  of 
Mutton 
boiled)  & 
Turnips. 


A  Ham 

braised* 

glazed,  and. 

Beans. 


Three 
Chickens 
alaReint 


I 


SECOND  COURSE* 


Tuo  Turkey  Poultij 

one  larded. 


Calves  Feet 
a  la  Espagnol. 


Three  Pigeons 
larded,  and 
Mushrooms. 


Fishy 

Removed  with 

Roast  Beef, 


Small  Omelets 
with  Sauce. 

Peas. 

Currant 
Tart. 

Trifle. 

Chern 
Tart.* 

French  Beans. 

Puultrj  Liver 
at  Aileti. 

Two  RabbiU. 


JULYS.    No.  185.  BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Soup  Jttliefij 

Amoved  with  a 

Fawn  and  ChenreuH  Sauce* 


Fillets  of  Soles 
i  la  Italienne. 


Veal  Olives  and 
Sauce  Ravigot. 


A  liauied 

Pie  with 

Chicken, 

Veal,  and 

Ham. 


Loin  of  Veal. 


A  Raised 

Pie 
with  Beef 

Steaks. 


Ox  Rumps  and 
Cabbage. 


Fricassee  of 
Chicken. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Pigeons* 


Poached  Eggs 
and  Ham. 


Aspang 


Cherry 
Tart. 


••^■^ 


Jeilj. 


Carranl 
Tart. 


Peas. 


Maeeaioni. 


Fishy 

Removed  with 
J  Chine  of  Mutton, 


Shoulder  of  Lamb, 


289 
JULY  4.    No.  186.    BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Soup  a  la  ReinCf 

Removed  with 

^  Chine  of  Lamb 

and  Cucijtmher  Sauce. 


■■V    *■ 


Teiideron«s  of 

Vealaiid 
Stewed  Peas. 


Coropdte  of 
PigeoQi, 


Two 
Chickens) 

a  la 
Eeioe. 


Legiof 

Mation 

roasted. 


Tongue 
glazed, 

and 
Taruips. 


Poulet  a  la 
Duchesse. 


Fish^ 

Removed  with 

Roast  Beef* 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Two  Rabbits. 


Caoliflower. 


Vt9M, 


ChorrjF 
Tart. 


French  Beans. 


Dressed 
LobNter. 


Tx^o  Ducklings. 


JULY  5.    No.  187.    BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSfi:. 
Green  Fea  Soup, 

Removed  with 

J  Fillet  of  Veal. 


TT 


Petit  Pates  of 
Lobster. 


Harricot  of 

Matron. 


Kilietof 

Beet 

]arded> 

glased, 

and 
Spanish 
Sance. 


Ham  brnised* 

glazed, 
and  Beans. 


Two 

Sweet- 
breads 
larded, 
glazed, 
and  Sorrel 
Sance. 


Scorcn  Collops^ 


VolcTenti  with  a 
Blaoqnetof  Fowl 


Fish, 

Removed  with 
j4  Chine  of  Mutton. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Quails. 


Picked  Crab. 


Peas. 


Cheese- 
cakes. 


Orange 

Jelly. 


Corrant 
Tart. 


Cauliflower, 


Fondaes 
in  Cases. 


Green  Goose* 


o 


JULY  6. 


No.  188.    BILL  OF  FAKE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Aspc^ragus  Soup^ 

Removed  with 

A  Fawn  and  Chevreuil  Sauce, 


Rump  of  Vefcl 

a  laDaube,  and 

Stewed  Peas. 


Semels 
and 
Piquant  Sauce. 


Beef 
Trem- 

blanc 

and 

Roots. 


f  Raised  Pie 
with 
Maccaroni. 


Chine  ot 
liamb 
and  Cu- 
cumber 
Ssuce. 


Risoles. 


A  Fowl 
alaBeshemell. 


Fish, 

Removed  with 

Roast  Beef, 


SECOND  .<X)URSE. 


1 


Taw  Turkei;  BwltSy 

one  larded. 


Peas. 


Cauliflower. 


Goose- 
berry Pie 

with 
Cream.  . 


Prawns  in  a 
Wax  Basket. 


Ratifie 
Pndding. 


Omelet. 


French  Beans. 


Three  Sweetbreads^  roasted. 


JULY  7.    No.  189.   BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 
Soup  a  la  ReinCy 

Removed  with 

A  Fillet  of  Veal. 


A  Ciret  of 
Fawu, 


Lamb  Cutlets 

and  Cucumber 

Sauce. 


Three 

Chickens 

a  la 

Reine. 


A  Ham' 

braisedf 

glazed, 

and  Belkns. 


Stewed 
Brisket 
of  Beef 
glazed, 
and 
Cahbage. 


Petit  P&t6s. 


Harricot  of 
Muiton. 


Fish, 

Removed  with 
A  Sirloin  of  Beef, 


SECOND  COURSE. 


A  Capon. 


Peas. 


Rago&t  MeU^ 


I 


Pastry. 


Jellj. 


Ptttiy. 


Cauliflower  and 
White  Sauce. 


French  Beans, 


Ribs  of  Lamb. 


S9t 


; 


JULY  8.    No.  190.   BILL  OF  FAHE. 

*>■■!       M  l>M    ii  n   n»»(.iwiini  i^iT»»W»<W 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Italian  Soupy 

Removed  with 

d  Haunch  of  Lamb,  larded^ 

and  Saace  PiquanU 


Pe^t  PlAh. 


Tenderones  of 

Veal,  and 
Stewed  Peas. 


Two 
bickens 

41a 
Heiue. 


Tongue  glaied 
and  Turnips. 


Two 

Sweet- 
breads 

a  la  Heine 
and 

garnished . 


5oDties  of 
Mutton  and 
Cucumber. 


Pigeons 
a  la  Crapaudine, 
and  Mushrooms. 


Fishy 

Keraoved  with 
ji  Loin  of  Veal 
a  la  BeshemelL 


SECOND  couiasB. 


Tpso  Ducklings. 


nt 


i- 


Wels, 


CaniiBower 

and 
White  Sauce. 


Rhenish 
Cream. 


Cherry  Tart 
aad  a  Caromel. 


Chantilkr 
Cake.'^ 


Maccaroni. 


French  Beans. 


Leverets 


■I '  "I  •'^ 


.   190.    TWO  SWEETBREADS  A  LA  REINE 

AND  GARNISHED, 

^ut  on  two  large  heart  sweetbreads  to  blanch ;  take 
a  off  when  they  come  to  a  boil^  and  pujt  them  in  cold 
'O  W  ^^^y  ^f  keeping  them  white;  then  put  about 
a  pint  of  stock  into  a  stew-pan,  and  then  the  sweet- 
ds  ;  cover  the  sweetbi^ads  ov^r  with  sheets  of  fat 
n,  and  white  paper  over  that ;  put  them  on  so  as  to 
them  done  about  ten  minutes  before  dishing  time; 
them  up  and  put  them  on  a  dish  (not  the  one  they 

o  % 


202 

are  to  go  to  table  on)^  put  beshemell  over  them,  the 
besbemell  should  be  of  good  colour  and  thickness^  so  as 
not  to  run  ofF  the  sweetbread ;  cut  French  beansj  that  have 
been' boiled  whole,  into  strings  and  leaves ;  form  a  circle 
round  the  sweetbread  with  strings,  and  form  a  handsome 
sprig  with  the  leaves,  or  any  manner  your  fancy  may  direct. 
Put  beshemell  on  the  dish,  and  then  the  sweetbreads; 
garnish  with  cauliflower,  and  roses  cut  from  red  tumip- 
radishes>  between  each  piece  of  cauliflower. 


A  LEVERET 
Is  dressed  in  all  respects  the  same  as  a  hare. 


393 


JULY  9.    No.  191.  BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE- 


Green  Pea  Soupj 

Removed  with  FISH» 
AemoTed  with 

J  Lain  of  Veal  a  la 
Beshen^lL 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Two  Turkey  Pouliiy 

ODC  larded. 


Crockets. 


Fillets  of 
Rabbit  larded, 

and 
Asparagus  Peas. 


BeefCollops. 


Cauliflower 
and  Saoce. 


Three  Cliickens 
a  la  Reine. 


Savoj  Cake* 


Ham 

braised, 

glased,  and 

Greens. 


)  Frame.  I 


Small  Rump 

of  Beef 
a  la  Daubc. 


Leg  of  Lamb 

boiled, 
and  Spinach* 


Venison  Fry. 


Two 
Sweetbreads 
larded,  and 
Sorrel  Sauce. 


Pttit  Pai6s. 


An  Omelet. 


Quails. 


Maccaroni* 


Cherry  Tart. 


Stewed  Peas. 


Peas. 


Gooseberry  Tart. 


Ragodt  Mell^. 


Leveret. 


Mushrooms. 


Soup  SantSy 

Removed  with  FISH, 
Removed  with 

ji  Sirloin  of  Beef.         I 


Orange  Jelly. 


French  Beans 
in  Sauce. 


Green  Goose. 


05 


S94 

No.  J  91.    VENISON  FRY, 

€tit  the  liver  in  slices  and  ptit  it  between  two  phrtea^ 
U'hile  the  other  parts  are  preparing ;  cut  the  fat  gnt  into 
-pieces^  about  an  inch  long ;  put  that  and  the  other  white 
part  with  the  velvet  from  the  horns  y  when  it  has  boiled  up 
take  the  velvet  out  and  scrape  the  hair  off;  by  the  time 
that  is  done  the  other  part  may  be  strained  off,  and<  wiushed 
in  several  waters  and  trimraed>  and  put  on  a  clean  clotk 
to  make  dry ;  the  sweetbread  cut  in  slices  rather  thick; 
put  four.or  five  slices  of  the  fat  of  ham  or  bacon  into  the 
frying  pan  ;  put  it  over  a  slow  fire  to  draw  the  fat;  when 
done  pour  the  liquor  inte  a  basin ;  take  out  the  fat  ham, 
and  put' in  the  liver,  and  fry  it  of  a  nice  brown;  season  it 
on  both  sides  with  white  pepper  and  salt ;  when  done  put 
it  on  the  back  of  a  sieve,  and  put  in  the  remainder  of  the 
fat  from  the  ham  ;  when ,  hot  put  in  the  other  part  of  the 
try,,  sprinkle  it  with  white  pepper  and  salt,  and  turn  it 
over  with  a  small  slice ;.  it  should  be  of  a  nice  brown  and 
quite  crisp ;  put  the  liver  and  sweetbread  round  the  dish, 
4ind  the  other  white  part  in  the  middle.  * 

N.B.  By  way  of  change,  fry  parsley  and  put  it  in  Ae 
middle,  and  the  white  part  on  the  parsley,  and  sliees  of 
sUeaked  bacon  fried  and  put  between  eaph  pieee  of  lifeiv 
8^d  piquant  ssiuce  in  a>boat«^ 


JULY  10.    No.  192.    BILL  OF  FARfi. 


\**« 


FIRST  COURSE. 
Vermicelli  Soupj 

Removed  with  FISH, 
Removed  with 

BridUt  of  Beef  Tremblanc^ 

and  Roolff. 


Timbftll  of 
MacciroDi. 


Two  Duckt 
d  la  Daabe. 


Four  Pigeoni 
.    and 
Asjwragus  Peas. 


Westphalia  Hats 

braised,  &c. 

and  B<:ans. 


Tenderones  of 

Veal  and 
Stewed  Peas. 


Fricondeao 
glazed. 


Small 

Raised  Pie 

vitb  Beefsteaks. 


SmaU  Raised 
Pie 

a  la  Fran^oise. 


Neck  of  . 
Aluttoa 
jl  la  Jardinier. 


Neat's  Toiigae 
'     in  Cutlets, 

and 
Stewed  Greens. 


Fillet  of  Veal 
d  la  Daube. 


Two  Chickens 
a  la  Reinc. 


Lamb's  Head 
a  lu  Royal. 


A  Chartreuse. 


Gibiet  SouDj 
RemoTcd  with  FISH,  removed 
with 

^  Chine  of  Mutton. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Tao  Turkey  Poults^ 

one  larded. 


Basket  of 
Pastrj. 


French  Beans. 


Jelly 
an  Marbre. 


Ragucit 
Meile. 


Quails. 


Mushrooms 
in  Boxes. 


Blanc  Mange. 


Stewed  Peas. 


Chantilly 
Cake. 


Chantilly 
Basket. 


Peas. 


Cederata 
Cream. 


Spinach 
in  Boxes. 


Pigeons. 


Mdccaroni. 


Orai>ge  Jelly. 


Asparagus. 


Basket 
of  Pastry. 


Green  Goose. 


Two  Removes, 

A  Fondue, 

A  Ratifie  Pudding. 


296 

No.  192.    NECK  OF  MUTTON 
A  LA  JARDINIER. 

Trim  a  neck  of  mutton  the  same  as  for  larding ;  cut  die 
red  part  of  a  carrot  the  same  as  bacon  for  larding^  and  use 
it  in  the  tame  manner;  put  it  very  close^ and  finish  it  in  the 
same  way  ;  put  a  pur6e  of  roots  under,  and  then  the  mut- 
ton: garnish  with  carrot.  The  pur6e  is  made  lis  follows: 
put  about  half  a  pint  of  stock  into  a  stew-pan ;  grate  two 
carrots,  slice  three  onions ;  cut  in  four  or  five  heads  of  ceU 
lery ;  slice  two  turnips,  and  about  two  ounces  of  butter ; 
put  it  over  the  stove  to  simmer  gently  until  the  roots  are 
sufficiently  tender  to  go  through  the  tammy ;  when  rubbed 
through^  put  it  into  a  stew-pan^  and  a  little  coulis. 

LAMB'S  HEAD  A  LA  ROYAL. 

The  lamb's  head  that  is  intended  for  this  purpose  should 
be  be-spoke  the  day  before  from  the  butcher^  to  have 
a  larger  scrag  to  the  head  than  is  generally  left  to  it ;  saw 
the  head  in  two  and  wash  it  quite  clean,  and  put  it  in  the 
stock-pot  to  poil  until  quite  tender;  then  take  it  up  and 
pull  all  the  bones  out ;  mix  chopped  parsley,  lemon-thjme, 
mushrooms  (chopped  very  fine,  and  squezed  very  dry)j  and 
pepper  and  salt,  with  bread  crumbs ;  egg  the  lamb  s  head^ 
and  put  the  bread  crumbs  on  it ;  press  them  well  on,  and 
dip  the  head  in  the  egg  and  afterwards  in  the  bread  crumbs 
again  ;  then  peel  the  tongue,  and  egg  and  crumb  it  in  the 
same  manner :  which  should  be  done  three  times  over  to 
make  it  look  handsome ;  put  them  on  a  soutie-pan,  pour 
clarified  butter  over  them,  and  put  them  in  the  oven  to  brown : 
the  liver  and  heart  should  be  boiled  and  minced ;  put  sauce  pi- 
quant in  a  stew-pan,  and  then  the  mince ;  squeze  a  lemon  in, 
and  season  it  very  nice,  so  as  to  make  it  palatable  ;  when 
finished,  put  the  mince  on  the  dish,  and  the  head  and  tongue 
in  the  middle:  garnish  witli  paste  or  croutons. 


297 


JULY  11.    No.  193.  BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Soup  a  la  Fiamondy 

Removed  with  t  ISH. 
Removed  with 

A  Fillet  of  Veal. 


Gulf's  Feet  and 
Spantsb  Sauce. 


FA\tU  of  Fowl 

Jarded,  and 
Asparagus  Peas. 


A  Ham  braised, 

glazed,  and 

Beans. 


Small  Mutton 
Pies. 


Fricandeau  and 
Sorrel  Sauce. 


Two  Chickens 
a  la  Reine. 


A  Raised 

Pie 
L'Amicns 


i  Frame.) 


A  Raised 
Pie  with 
MaccR- 

roni. 


I>g  of  Lamb 

boilf^d,  and 

Spinach. 


Fillet  of  Beef 

lardedf  and 
TonMUsSance. 


A  VolcTcnt. 
with  Sweetbread. 


A  small  Rump 

of  Beef 

a  la  Mantaa. 


Breast  of  l^rofo 

rolled.  Cutlets 

larded,  and 

Italian  Sauce. 


Matelot  of 
Rabbit. 


Soup  SantSj 

Removed  with  FISH, 

Removed  with 

A  Sirloin  of  Beef. 


SECOND  COURSE, 


Two  Ducklings* 


Strawberry 
Cream. 


French  Beans. 


Goosaberry 
Tart. 


Mushrooms. 


Jelly  an 
Marbre. 


Slewed  Peas. 
■     ■■      ^ 


Small  Pud- 
dings. 


Cauliflower  and 
Sauce. 


|Fraroe.| 


Cauliflower. 


Small  Puddings. 


Peas,  plain, 
boilod.    , 


Orange  Jelly"^ 


Mushrooms. 


Cherry  Tart. 


French  Beans, 
in  Sauce. 


CedrraiH  Crram 


!Z\ro  Turkey  Poults^ 
one  larded. 


04 


29S 


JULY  12.    No,  194.    BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Soup  Julieny 

ReiBoved  with  FISH, 
Removed  with 

A  Haunch  of  Lamb  larded^ 

and  Cucumber  Sauce. 


Ctipilotade  of 
iDockliiig. 


Tongue  glazed 
and  Turnips. 


A  Capon  with 
a  lUgoik  Mell^. 


Breast  of  Veal 
&  stewed  Peas. 


Ilisote!^. 


P«tit  P^t^ 
of  Veal  &Hain. 


Neck  of  Matton 
braised,  glazed, 
and  a  Pur^e  of 
Roots. 


Three  Chickens 
i  la  Reine. 


BeefTremblanc 
and  Roots. 


Lamb  Cutlets 

and  Sauce 

PiqiHifit. 


I 


Green  Pta  Soupy 

Removed  with 

Removed  with 
ji  Chirie  of  Mutton. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Guinea  Fowl  larded* 


Savoy  Cake. 


French  Beans. 


Fondoesi 
in  Cases. 


Three  roasted 
Sweetbreads. 


JeUy. 


Peat. 


Ragovit  Mell^. 


Four  Pigeons. 


Maccaroni. 


Omelet. 


Cauliflower. 


Artichokes. 


t 


Blanc  Mange. 


j  Cherry  Tart  & 
a  CHramot. 


A  Levereij  lardetL 


No.  194.    A  LEVERET  LARDED. 

Prepare  it  the  same  as  a  hare;  lard  it  very  close^  and 
Ak%  bacon  should  be  rather  larger  than  is  used  in  general 


flOO 

for  other  tbingSj  as  the  leferet  will  require  more  time  to 
be  at  the  fire;  it  Avill  take  about  twenty  minutes;  be 
sure  to  keef»  baking  it  with  butlef  dwiiig  the  tioie  it  i»  tl 
the  fire. 

JULY  13.    No.  195.  BILL  OF  FAHE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Soup  Santiy 

Removed  with 

FilUt  of  Veal. 


BUnqaetofFowl 
and  Mushrooms. 


Lamb'f  Feet 

Krkb  A«pangut 

Pees* 


Leg  of 

Lamb 

roasted. 


Petit  Vi\Jt%, 


Neck 

of 

Venuon. 


Fricassee  of 
Chicken. 


Sauties  of 
Sweetbread. 


Fish^ 

Removed  with 

A  Chine  of  Mutton* 


S£COm>  COURSE. 


Two  Chickem* 


Caalifiower 
and  Sauce* 


Cherry 
I    Tart. 


Chanttlly 
Bnket. 


Goose- 

berryXan 


French  Beans. 


Artichokes, 


Two  Rabbits. 


A  NECK  OF  VENISON 


W^l  take  about*  an  hour-  and^^  haK  for  preparation* 


300 


JULY  14:    No.  196-    FILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 
Turtle^     . 

Removed  wkb  FISH» 
Remored  witll 

A  Haunch  of  Venison. 


Harricot  of 
Mutton. 


Risolet  fried  in 
Paste. 


CliBmp 
ofVeal 

a  la 
Daobe, 
AtFeas. 


Frame.  I 


L>mb*s 
Head 

Rojal. 


Three 
Chicken* 

a  la 
Heine. 


Petit  P&t^t. 


Matelot  of 
Rabbit. 


Soupy 

RemoTed  witli  FISH, 
Removed  with 

A  Sirloin  of  Beef. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


r«o  Turkey  PouUsy 


one  iarded. 


Trifle. 


Canliflower 
with  Saoce. 


Jelly. 


Peat. 


Two 
Rabbits. 


4  Frame.  9 


French  Beam. 


Rhentih  Cream. 


Maccaroni. 


Savoy  t^ake. 


Two  Ducklings. 


301 


JULY  15.    No.  197.    BILL  OF  FARE, 


FIRST  COURSE. 

Soup  Saniej 

Removed  with 

J  Loin  of  Veal* 


Fricassee  of 
Chicken. 


Hashed 
Venison. 


Stewed 

Beef  & 

Roots. 


Raised  Pie. 


Leg  of 

Lamb 

roasted. 


Conipdte  of 
Pigeons  and 
Mushrooms. 


White  CoUops 
and  Cucumber. 


Fishj 

Removed  with 

A  Chine  of  Mutton. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Tuo  Chickent. 


Peas. 


Fondue. 


Dressed  Lobster. 


French  Beans.. 


A  Leverets 


No.  197.    HASHED  VENISON. 

Cut  the  venison  in  neat  thin  slices,  as  neav  the  shape  of 
ttlets  as  the  venison  will  admit  of;  lay  the  venison  round 
e  side  of  the  stew-pan  (the  same  as  cutlets  on  a  dish) ; 
it  the  gravy  belonging  to  the  venison  (if  any  left)  in  the 
^M'-pan :  if  none  put  a  little  best  stock ;  sprinkle  the 
nison  with  white  pepper  and  salt :  put  white  paper  over 
and  cover  the  stew-pan  over ;  then  put  the  trimmings 
d  lean  pieces  into  a  stew-pan^  add  one  onion,  a  faggot 

thyme  and  parsley,  and  a  few  blades  of  mace :  add  a 
it  of  stock ;  set  the  stew-pan  on  the  stove  to  simmer 
-y  slow  for  an  hour,  then  strain  it  off  and  skim  the  fat 
IB  it;  put  abput  an  ounce  of  butter  into  a  ttew-pan^ 


302 

^^n  melted^  put  a&  much  flour  as  \viirdi7  it  up ;  ihen  put 
ia  th6  liquor  just  strained  ofT^  and  a  glass  of  port  Mine ; 
let  it  boil  a  few  nainutes  and  strain  it  into  auotlier  stew-pan; 
put  the  venison  over  the 'Stove  to  make  hot;  wfa^n  bot^  put 
it  round  the  dish ;  put  the  gravy  that  it  vras  M'armed  in 
into  the  sauce^  give  it  a  boil  up;  pour  a  little  over  tht 
v^nison^  -aud  die  remainder  in  the-middle  of  the  dish. 

JULY  16.    No.  198.    BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 
Vermicelli  Soup^ 

Removed  with 
A  Neck  of  Venison, 


White  Coilops. 


Petit  P^i6s. 


Chine  of  Lamb. 


Seroeis  and 
Saace  Piquant. 


Fricassee  of 
Chicken. 


Fishj 

Removed  with 

Ribs  of  .Beef 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Pigeons. 


Rice  Fritters. 


Peas. 


French  Beans. 


Paltry. 


Roast  Fowl* 


■p^» 


•mtmmm 


I 

J 


303 


JULY  17.    No.  199.    BILL  OV  FAttG. 


■1  I  ITi 


FIRST  COURSE. 

Soup  a  la.  Fiamondj 

Aeinoved  with 

A  Hum  braisedj  glazed^ 
and  Beans. 


Tenderones 
>f  Veal  and 
evred  Peas. 


Venison  Fry. 


Jets  of 
lea  la 
iieone. 


Raised  Pie 
a  la  Fras^oise. 


Two 

Chickens 

ft-ki 
Reine. 


Pigeons 
aCrapaudine» 

and 
ace  Piquant. 


Lamb's  Sweet- 
bread larded, 
glazed,  and 

Asparagus  Peas. 


Fishy 

Removed  with 

A  Loin  of  Veal* 


SECOND  COURSE. 

Tzoo  Turkeif  Poults^ 
one  larded. 


Artichokes, 


Peas. 


Jeily, 


Savoj  Cake* 


Cederata 
Crep.m. 


French  Beans 
in  Sauce. 


Spinach  and 
Croutons. 


Ribs  of  Lambm 


JULY  18.    No.  200.     BILL  OF  FARE. 


^«i 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Soup  a  la  Reiney 

Removed  with 

ji  Haunch  of  Venison, 


SECOND  CODRSE. 


Two  Ducklings. 


mb*s  Feet  & 
»aragus  Peas. 


Pigeon  Pie, 


I 


L.amb's  Head 
a  ia  Rovul. 


lail    MuUoB  I 
Pies.  1 


Fricassee  of 
Chicken. 


Fishy 

Removed  with 

Roast  Beef. 


Mnccaronj. 


Peas. 


Lobster. 


Freneh  Beaas. 


An  Omi'Iet 
Souffle. 


A  roast  Fowl* 


t^m. 


304 


JULY  19.    No.  201.    BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Chreen  Pea  Soup^ 

Remnved  with 

A  Fillet  of  Veal. 


Stfreetbreads 

Urdcdi  glazed, 

and  An  l^ince. 


Ltmb  CotleU 

and  Cucumber 
Sauce. 


Tongue  glazed> 
and  Greens. 


Tvfo  Rabbits 
a  la  Oporto 
lardedt  and 
Tarragon  Sauce. 


Fishy 

Remored  with 
A  Chine  of  Mutton. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Pigeons, 


Prawns, 


Ratifie  Pudding. 


French  Beans. 


JLiobsteraa 
Oratin. 


Leveretm 


JULY  20.    No.  202.    BILL  OF  FARE. 


I 


FIRST  COURSE. 
Soup  Cressy^ 

Removed  with 

A  Neck  of  Venison. 


1 


Teai  and  Uam 
Cutlets. 


Beet'  Palates 

rolled. 


Chine  of 

Lamb  & 

Cocara- 

ben. 


Sturgeon 
&  la  Broche. 


'Fillet  of 
Veal. 


Compote  of 
PIceons. 


Risoles. 


SECOND  COURSE. 
Two  Chiekensy  one  UnrAl 


Fondnes  la 
Cases. 


Stewed  Pms. 


ChaDtillj  Cdte. 


Fishj 
RemoTtd  with 

A  Leg  of  Mutton* 


French  Beans  lat 
Sauce.        * 


Cfaeeiecakcs. 


Two  Rabbits. 


305 


JULYei.    No.  203.    BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Soup  SwUi, 
Removed  with 

A  Neck  of  Venison. 


Greoadjiiei  and 
Sorrel  Saoce. 


Harricot  of 
Matton. 


Neck  at 
Veal 
a  la 

Beshe- 
niell. 


Tvro  Chickens 
a  Ja  Reine. 


Leg  of 

Lamb 

roasted. 


SECOND  COURSE. 
Tm  Turkey  Poults. 


Cauliflower  and 
White  Sauce. 


Stewed  Peas. 


Matelot  of 
Rabbit. 


Pig's  Chopper 
glased  »&  Beans. 


Fish^ 

Removed  with 

Roast  Beef. 


Pastry. 


Jellj. 


P*stry. 


Artichokes. 


French  Beans 
in  Saoce. 


Leverets 


JULY  24.    No.  204.   BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 
Fowl  and  Rice  Soup^ 

Removed  "with 

A  Fillet  of  Feal. 


Roulard  of 

Matton  &la 

Broche,  and 

S.«uce  Piquant. 


Petit  TM%. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


ji  large  Foal. 


Ragoil^t  Melie. 


F^as. 


Tongue  glazed, 
and  Turnips. 


Poalet  a  ta 
Duchesse. 


Ox  Rumps  and 
Cabbage*  with 
Spanish  Sauce. 


Fish, 

Removed  with 
A  Chine  of  Mutton. 


Gooseberry  Tart- 


French  Beans. 


Maccaroni. 


Shomlder  of  Lamb* 


m^^mtm 


am 


JULY  23.    No.  305.    BH.L  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 
Green  PeaSoupy 

Removed  witii  a 

Leg  of  Lamb  boiled^  Loin 
friedy  and  Spinach. 


Tenderonet  of 

Veal  glazed,  & 

A«pturaga»  F««s, 


Maintenon 

Cutlets  and 

potTTade  Sauce. 


Pigeon  Pic. 


Venison  Fry. 


Fillets  of  Fowl 
larded,  and 
Mushrooms. 


Fishy 
^emoTed  with 

Roast  Beef, 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Four  Pigeons^ 


Spinach  and 
Crouton. 


Pea*. 


Rasp- 
berry 
Cream. 


SaVoy  Cake. 


Pastry. 


French  Beans. 


CaDlillower 
and  Saoce. 


Two  RabbHn 


JULY  24.    No.  S06.    BILL  OF  FAKE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Soup  Julienj 

Removed  with 

Brisket  of  Beef 

Tremblano  and  Roots. 


Broiled  Fowl 
&  Moshroomi. 


Calves'  Fe«it 

and  Spanish 

Saruce. 


Neck  of 
Venison. 


Capolitade  of 
Rabbit, 


Hashed  Lamb, 

&  Blade-bone 

broiled. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Two  Ducklings. 


FISH. 
Removed  with 

A  Loin  of  Veal. 


Cauliflawer 
^  la  Flamond. 


Stewed  Peas. 


Gooseberry 
Tart. 


'French  Beans. 


Ham  &  poached 

Egg». 


ji  Leveret. 


JULY  25-    No,  207.    BILL  OF  FAR8. 


FIRST  COURSE.        1 


Soup  Cressy^ 

Removed  witli 

Two  Chickens  a  la  Reine. 


Blanquet  of 
VeaK 

Lamb  Cutlets  & 
Cucumber  Sauce. 

Toiigoe  gUued, 
and  Turnips. 

Petk  Plkt^s. 

Fillets  of  Sole 
a  ritaJienue. 

Fishj 

Removed  with 

^  Chine  of  Mutton. 


mM 


SECOND  COURSE. 


QuttUt. 


Mushrooms. 

Stewed  Peat.  ^ 

Currant  Tart. 

French  Beam. 

Ragofit  Melle. 

A  Turkeif. 


»  Will 


1I7LY  26.    No.  208.    BILL  OF  FARE. 


irfiVk 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Green  Pea  Soup^ 

Removed  with 

ji  Loin  of  Veal* 


'o  Chicken* 
oiled*  and 
ragon  Sauce, 


FelitF&tlBs. 


wed 
tef 

id 

»Ot8. 


•Sturgeon 
h  la  Broche. 


Ham 
braUed, 

and 
Beans. 


mb  Cutlets 
Cucumt;cr. 


Sweetbreads 
a  la  Reine. 


Fish, 

Removed  with 
ji  Chine  of  Mutton. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Guinea  Fowl,  larded. 


AncboTj  Toast. 


Peas. 


Jell^. 


Small  Curd 

and  Almond 

Puddings. 


Cederata 

Cream. 


French  Beans. 


Dressed  Lobstet. 


Quaih, 


aos 


JULY  27.    No.  209.    BILL  OF  FARE- 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Soup  Julienj 

Kemoved  with 

A  Neck  of  Venison* 


Pigeons  &  la 

Crapaudine,  «ud 

Sauce  Piquant. 


Blanquet  of 
Fowl  and 
Cucumber. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Two  Chickensj 

one  larded. 


Craj  Fith. 


Peas. 


Fillet  of 

Beeflarded, 

glazed,  and 

Sauce 

Piquant. 


Raised 

Pie  &  la 

Fran^oise 


Neck  of 

Mutton 

lardedf 

glazed;  and 

a  Pur6e  of 

Roots. 


Fricassee  of 
Rabbit. 


Saall  Mutton 
Pies. 


Fishy 

RemeTed  witb 
A  Loin  of  Veal. 


Cederata 
Cream. 


Ratifie 
Padding. 


Orange 

Jellj. 


French  Beans. 


PkkM  SdsBOD. 


Tmo-RdbhUi. 


I 


No.  a09.    BLANQUET  OF  FOWL  AND 

CUCUMBER. 

Peel  the  Cucumber^  then  cut  it  in  quarters  ;  cut  tk 
seed  outj  and  cut  each  quarter  into  three  pieces;  pot 
them  in  vinegar  and  a  little  mixed  pepper  and  salt ;  let 
the  cucumber  stand  so  for  about  two  hours ;  then  put  the 
cucumber  into  a  stew-pan^  with  about  an  ounce  of  butter; 
cover  it  over,  and  put  the  stew-pan  on  a  slow  fire  to  sim- 
mer very  slo^  ly  until  the  cucumber  is  quite  tender ;  diea 
put  in  a  little  flower,  toss  it  up  to  mix  it ;  be  sure  and  not 
stir  it  with  a  spoon,  as  it  wonld  break  the  cuctzmber ;  then 
put  in  as  much  beshemell  as  is  requisite ;  when  quite  hot 
,put  in  the  fowl ;  season  it  with  a  little  white  pepper  aad 
salt.    Garnbh  either  with  croutons  or  paste* 


300 

PICKLED  SALMON 

Is  geoerally  had  from  the  oyster  purveyors:  if  it 
oold  be  desired  to  be  picMed  at  home^  it  is  done  in  the 
lowing  manner : — ^The  salmon  to  be  as  new  as  possible^ 
it  scale  it,  and  then  open  and  clean  it,  and  take  out  the 
b;  clean  the  inside  with  a  brush,  and  wash  it  in  several 
ten :  then  split  it  down  the  back  and  cut  it  into  proper- 
ed  pieces  (as  for  the  number  of  pieces  it  depends  on 
i  size  of  the  salmon) ;  put  the  salmon  in  the  fish-ketde^ 
i  as  much  spring  water  as  will  barely  cover  it,  and  a 
itofvinegar,  a  handful  ofbay*salt,  a  little  mace,  some 
ite  whole  pepper^  and  about  a  dozen  of  bay-leaves ; 
en  the  salmon  is  done  take  it  up,  and  lay  it  on  a  clean 
cloth ;  let  the  liquor  boil  until  it  is  about  half  boiled 
ij;  then  put  it  to  cool ,'  put  the  salmon  into  a  pan,  and 
ell  the  liquor  is  quite  cold  put  it  to  the  salmon.  Sal* 
odone  this  way  will  retain  its  goodness  for  several 
Qths. 


JULY  £8.    No.  filO.    BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 
Vermicelli  Soupy 

Removed  with 

^  Neck  of  Venison. 


t»  Chopper 
«<ed,  and 
fitans. 


White  Collops 

and 

Cucumber. 


neof 


Two  Chickens 
a  la  Heine. 


Necic  of 

Veal  a  la* 

Besheniell. 


iderones  of 
bi^laPoulet 


Harricot  of 
Mutton. 


Fishy 
Removed  with 

j4  Sirloin  of  Beef. 


SECOJfD  COURSE. 


Quails, 


Cauliflower. 


Stewed  Peat< 


Pastry. 


Jelly. 


Pastry. 


French  Beans. 


Ragoi^t  MeU6. 


Two  Rabbits. 


310 
No.  2ia    A  PIG'S  CHOPPER 

Is  the  half  of  the  bead :  it  should  be  boiled  safficicdt 
lor  the  bones  to  pull  out;  and  then  take  off  the  rhine  and 
glaze  it ;  put  the  beans  on  the  dish^  and  the  chopper  on 
Uie'^  beans.    Send  parsley  and  butter  in  a  boat. 


JULY  S9.    No.«li.    BILL  OF  FARE. 


Matton  CutJets 
,    Iwrded*  aiul 
Sorrel  Sauce. 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Soup  Saniiy 

Httinoved  with 
A  Loin  of  Veal* 


Fricassee  of 
Chicken, 


Shoulder  of 
Venison 
stewedy 

and  Roats. 


Petit 

pat^s, 


Calf's 

Head 

hashed  and 

gr4lled. 


FilU?tsofSaIe 
a  la  Italienne. 


Two  Sweetbreads 
laAled,  and 
an  Emince. 


Remoyed  with 

A  Chim  qf  Mutton, 


SECOND  COURS£. 


A  Guinea  Fowty 
larded* 


Steved  Peat. 


ArticbQlce«> 


Cauliflower 
a  la  Flamond. 


French  Btantp 
in  Sauce. 


t^mmm^-^i^^^mm^mm 


A  Leveret* 


dii 


JULY  SO.    No.  2ie.    BILL  OP  RARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Soup  a  la  ReinCf 

Kemoved  with 

'^g  of  Lamb  boiled,  Loin 
friedy  and  Spinach. 


Calves*  Feet 

la  Espagnol. 


-•  I 


Venison  Fty, 


east  of 
(al  and 
tevred 
Pea«, 


Ham  braised, 

glazed,  and 

Beans. 


Two 
Chickens 

a  la 
.  Heine. 


Roolard  of 
bf  utton  and 
Cocamber. 


Matelotof  Rabbit 


Fish, 

RemoTed  with 
Ribs  of  Beef. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Tzoo  Ducklings. 


Cauliflower. 


French  Beans. 


Basket 

of 
Pastry. 


Rhenish 
Cream. 


Chantillj 
Basket. 


Peas. 


An 
Ometet  Souffle. 


Ttoo  Turkeif  Faults. 


JULY  31.     No.  213.     BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 
Green  Pea  Soup^ 

Removed  with 

jI  Rump  of  Beefy 
d  la  Mantua. 


nderones  of 
Lsmb  «nd 
[ushrooms. 


Small  Matton 
Pies. 


M        ■« 


mgae 
;ed»  and 
mips. 


Neck  of 
venison. 


Fricopdeau 

glazed,  and 

JSorrel 

Sauce. 


olevent  of 
Fish. 


Fricasseje  of 
Chicken. 


Fishy 

Removed  with 
jd  Loin  of  Veal. 


Dressed  Lobster. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Quails. 


'   "■   T'" 


•^ 


^^^^xtm^mm^m 


Stewed  Peas. 


Gooseberry 
Tart. 


Raspberry 
Cream.  " 


Cherry 
Tart.      * 


Cauliflower. 


Prawns. 


Ribs  of  Lamb* 


mmm 


313 


AUGUST  1.    No.  214.    BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Sottp  Julteuy 

Kerooved  with 

A  Haunch  of  Venison* 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Two  Rabbits. 


Tenderones  of 
Veal  and 
Stewed  Peas. 


Pigeons  ft  la 

Crapaodine,  and 

Sauce  piquant. 


Artichokes. 


Neck  of 

•Mutton 

braised, 

glased,  and 

Cucorober 

Sauce. 


Two 

Chicltens 

a  la 

Reiae. 


i 


Ham 
braisedf 

and 
Beans. 


P^tPil(6f. 


Beef  Palates  as 

Cuttets,  glazed, 

and  Sauce  Royal. 


Fishj 

Removed  with 

Roast  Beef. 


Stewed  Peas. 


Pastiy. 


ChaniillT 
Cake/ 


Pastry. 


French  Beans 
in  Sauce. 


Cucanbeft 
forced. 


Two  Ducklings. 


No.  214.    CUCUMBERS  FORCED. 

Peel  four  cucumbers  very  even ;  cut  a  piece  off  the  eoit 
and  get  the  fieeds  out  with  a  small  turnip  scoop ;  fill  tbe 
inside  with  forced  meat ;  put  them  on  to  stew  in  a  little 
good  stock ;  let  them  simmer  gently  until  quite  tender, 
then  take  them  from  the  fire  ;  take  the  cucumbers  out  of 
the  stew-pan  with  a  small  slice^  and  lay  them  on  a  dish 
and  glaze  them ;  then  reduce  the  liquor  the  cucumbers 
were  done  in  nearly  to  a  glaze ;  when  done  put  a  little 
cotilis  to  it^  and  make  it  quite  hot;  put  it  on  the  dish^aod 
then  the  cucumbers.     Garnish  with  paste. 

BEEF  PALATES  AS  CUTLETS. 

The  palates  should  be  braised  the  same  way  as  for  being 
rolled;  when  quite  cold  cut  them  out  with  a  cutter  near); 


313 

the  shape,  of  a  lamb  cutlet ;,  put  some  glaze  on  a  soutie- 
pan  when  hot^  and  run  it  all  over  the  pan ;  put  the  palates 
on^  and  put  the  soutie-pan  over  a  very  slow  stove>  to 
warm  gently;  when  nearly  hot  turn  them;  when  ready 
put  them  round  the  dish^  and  sauce  aliemaude  in  the 
middle. 


AUGUST  2.    No.  215.   BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Soup  Santif 

Removed  with 
A  Loin  of  Veal. 


Hashed  VeoisoD. 


Poulet  a  la 

Ducbesse.with 

Mushrooms. 


i'MTo  Dacks 

brnicd, 

forced  t 

glacedf  and 
Turnips. 


Beef 

Sieak 

Pie. 


Fillet  of 
Beeflarded, 
glazedi  and 

Spanish 

Sauce. 


Lamb  Cutlets 

and  Piquant 

Sauce. 


Civet  of  Lereret, 


Bilked  Carpf 

Removed  with 

A  Chine  of  Mutton. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Pigeons* 


Picked  Crab. 


Stewed  Peas. 


Siraw- 

berry 

Cream. 


Ratiiie 
Paddmg. 


Jelly. 


French  Beans. 


Prawns. 


Shoulder  of  Lamb* 


No.215.    TWO  carp;  BAKED. 

Put  some  stuffiug  m  then\,  made  the  same  as  for  a 
hare;  turn  them  round, -by  putting  the  tail  iu  the  mootfa| 
aod  fasten  it  i^n  with  a  skewer ;  brush  the  carp  with  egg^ 
then  sprinkle  theni  over  withlbread-crumbs,  make  as  many 
ItidC'tTnte  C5Tp~as7OTi;fiTi  {■  drop  clarified  butter  ovei 
iiem :  put  a  pint  of  stock  in  a  deep  diah  (that  ^ill  hold 


314 

tie  carp),  a  few  .^Iialots,  baj-leaves,  parsley,  thyme,  pot 

vfoarjoram,  and  sweet  marjoram,  a  few  sprigs  of  basi),  half 

'.  a  dozen  of  anchovies,  and  a  pint  of  port  wine ;  put  them 

in  the  oven  to  bake ;  when  done  take  them  out  of  the  oven 

and  strain  the  liquor  into  a  basin;  put  about  an  ounce  of 

butter  into  a  stew-pan,  when  melted  put  flour  sufficient  to 

.-dry  it  up ;  then  put  in  the  liquor  the  carp  were  done  in, 

let  it  boil  a  few  n^inutes  ;  squeeze  half  a  lenjon  in,  and  put 

a  little -dust  of  sugar  in,  and  a  little  Cayemie  pepper;  put 

the  carp  on  the  dish;  garnish   with   par&ley.    Send  the 

.sauc^  in  two  boats. 

N.B.  If  the  carp  is  for  a  iheagre  day,  put  butter  indie 
stuffing  instead  of  $  net,  and  use  water  instead  of  stock,  or 
iisfa  stock  if  convenient;  observe  this  in  all  meagre  dishes* 


AUGUST  3.     No.  Sl6.    BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Green  Pea  Soup^ 

Removed  with 

A  Haunch  of  Lamb ' 

larded,  glazed,  &  Cucamb«r  Sance. 


Hnrricot  of 
Mtttton. 


Fricassee  of 
Ctttcken. 


Breast  of 

Veal  and 

Stftwed 

peat. 


Raised 
Pie  a  U 

Fraii^oise 


Neck  of 
Venison. 


A  Souricof 

Svreetbread  & 

Mushfoomt. 


Beef  Olives 

and 

Sauce  Piqnant. 


Fish, 

Removed  with 

Rump  of  Beef  a  la  Mantii&. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Guinea  Fozei^  larded. 


Peas. 


Omelet  Soufflt 


BInnc 
Mange. 


•  Currant 
and  Rasj)- 


Chantillj 
Cake. 


Mllfcafont. 


*     Leveret. 

I"    .  I'l. .1 


•    . 


'.'    f   M 


./      .. 


315 


AUGUST  4.    No.  217.    BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 

Turtiey 

Removed  with  FISH, 
Reaiovcd  with 

A  Haunch  of  Venison, 


■■MMaiMaiM 


Petit  Pai^s, 


Two  Chickeni 
a  la  Reine. 


yS,aik*ta«MbaMaUa^_^lu>aa 


Lamb  Cutlets 
and  Cucumbers. 


Fricandeau 

glazed,  and 

Surrel  Sauce. 


Brisket 
of  Beef 
Trem- 

blanc 
glazed » 

and  a 

Pur^e  of 

Roots. 


\  FRAME.  I 


Ham 

braided, 

glazed, 

6e,  Beans. 


Two  Ducks 

larded,  glazed, 

and  stewed 

Peas. 


Semels  and  Fi< 
qiiani  Sauce. 


'  Two  Sweet- 
breads a  laReine 


Small  Mutton 
Pies. 


Turtle  Soupy 

Removed  with  F)SH, 
Removed  with 

Roast  Beef. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Quaih. 


Cauliflower  and 
Beshemell. 


Jelly. 


Two 
Chickens 
Roasted. 


I   FRAMX.    I 


Pastry. 


French  Bleans 
in  Sauce. 


Raspberry 
Cream. 


Maccaroni. 


A  Leveret* 


MM 


—m 


vfr 


316 


AUGUST^.    No.  218.    BILL  OF  FARE- 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Soup  a  la  Flamondy 

Keraoved  with 

A  Fittet  of  Veal, 


\ 


Blanquet  of 
Fowl  and 
.  Cacuraber. 


Ox  Ramps 
and  Cabbage. 


Haunch 
of  Lamb 
larded  & 
Cucum- 
ber. 


Raised . 
Pigeon  Pie. 


Neck  of 
Venison. 


Harricot  of 
Mutton. 


Fricassee  of 
Rabbit  and 
Mu»hrooms. 


JP«A, 

Removed  with 
A  Chine  of  Mutton, 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Pigeons. 


Cauliflower  and 
Sauce. 


Stewed  Fell. 


Ciuuse- 

berrv 

Cream  in 

Cops. 


Orange 
Souffle. 


Cnrraot 
Tart. 


French  Beans. 


Mushrooms. 


Two  Rabbits. 


AUGUST  6.    No.  219.    BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Vermicelli  Sonpj 

Removed  with 

A  Neck  of  Fenison. 


White  Coilops 
and  Cucuteber. 


Pigeons  a  m 
CrapaudiiiCy  and 
Piquant  Sauce. 


Fillet  of 
Veal. 


Leg  of  Lumb 

boiletl^  Xoin 

fried*  and 

Spinach. 


Tongue 
glazed  & 
Turnips. 


Risoles. 


az 


Mileisui  bole 
a  In  Italipnnp. 


Fih, 

Removed  with 
Ribft  of  Beef. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Two  Turkey  PouliSj 

one  larded. 


dpinacU  lU 
Boxes. 


Slewed  Fess. 


Chee»e- 
cftke^ 


Jelly. 


Curnuii 
Tarr. 


Freucii    beans 
in  Sancc. 


Fuiiuue 
in  Cases. 


A  Leverety 


317 


AUGUST  7.    No.  220.    BILL  OF  FARE. 


«x. 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Green  Pea  Soupy 

Removed  with 

A  Neck  of  Venison. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Quails% 


Tenderonfts  of 

Larab  and 

Mushlrooros. 


Petit  F&tet. 


Cauliflower  with 
Sauce. 


Peas. 


breasi  ot 

Veal& 

stewed 

Peas. 


Tongue 

glazed,  and 

Turnips. 


ii  .11 


Stewed 

Beet'& 

Routs. 


Pastry. 


Jelly. 


Pastry. 


Small  Mutton 
Pies. 


Pan  lard  &  la 
Ducttesse. 


Fishy 

Removed  with 

ji  Chine  of  Mutton, 


French  Beans. 


Ham  and  poach- 
ed £ui>8. 


Two  Rabbits. 


AUGUSTS.    No.  221  •    BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Soup  a  la  Reincy 

Removed  with 

A  Haunch  of  Vetiison. 


.    Banquet  of 
Veal  and  Mush- 
*    r6oms. 

<■  '  '  '  ■ — '• 


I^jEimb.  Cutlets 

and  Cucumber 

Sauce. 


1  wo 

Sweet- 

forends^ 

JaReioe. 


ff Biu  braised, 

glazed*  and 

B«*an.«. 


Two 
Chickens 

a  la 
Reine, 


Petit  Pft.fe. 


S)ulies  of  Sole, 


FiShy  ^ 

Removed  with 
Boast  Beef. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Two  Ducklings. 


Ragoftt.Mell6. 


Stewed  Feat. 


Cheese- 
cakes. 


Currant^ 
Tri^e.  Raspber- 

ry Tart. 


French  Beans- 
in  Snnce. 


'w  ■>■ 


Mushrooms. 


I 


Ribs  of  Lamb. 


P  3 


318 

No.  221     CHEESECAKES  OF  ALMONDS. 

Blanch  two  ounces  of  sweet  almonds^  and  half  an  ounce 
of  bitter  almonds ;  pound  them  very  fine  in  a  mortar ;  put 
a  few  drops  of  water  in  while  pounding  them^  by  way  of 
keeping  tFieni  white  ;  when  pounded  fine^  put  them  into  a 
basin  with  the  yolks  of  three  eggs^  and  as  much  sifted  sugar 
as  will  be  sufficient  to  sw^eeten  it :  beat  them  well  up  with 
a  spoon ;  then  beat  up  the  whites  of  two  eggs  with  a 
.Knife^  either  on  a  pewter  plate  or  a  stew-pan  cover;  when 
done^  put  them  to  the  almonds;  add  the  rhiud  of  a  lemoa 
grated^  a  spoonful  of  apricot-jam^  a  little  nutmegs  and 
half  a  glass  of  brandy ;  sheet  the  tartlet-pans  w  ith  puff- 
paste  cut  out  with  a  cutter;  and  fill  them  about  half  fuE 
with  the  cheesecake ;  they  should  be  watched  very  close 
while  bakings  as  they  are  very  apt  to  burn. 


AUGUST  9.    No.  222.    BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Soup  Sante^ 

Removed  with 

A  Fillet  of  Veal. 


Calves  Feel  au 

Gratin,  and 

Italian  Sauce. 


Breast  of  Larab 

grilled,  and 
Sayc.e  Piquant. 


VolcTcnt. 


Leg  ot  Lamb 

boiled*  Loin 

fried*  and 

Spinach. 


Petit 
Pai^s. 


Matelot  of 
Rabbit. 


Sheep's  Ramps, 

Kidoeysj  and 

Rice. 


Fish^ 

Removed  with 

t        A  Chine  o/  Mutton. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Two  Turkey  Poults^ 

one  larded. 


Ratifie  Padding 


Picked  Crab. 


French 

Beans  in 

Sauce. 


Jelly  Marbre. 


Peas 

stewed. 


Cray  Fish. 


Ch«ntilly  Cake. 


Two  Rabbits. 


No.222*    SHEEP'S  RUMPS  AND  KIDNIES 

WITH  RICE. 

Boil  the  rice  the  same  as  for  a  cur6e^  and  raite  a  riot 
round  the  dish  about  two  inches  high :  brush  it  over  with 
eggs  and  put  it  in  the  oven  to  brown ;  put  the  rumps  and 
kidneys  on  *  the  dish  when  the  rice  is  brown.  For  the 
Rumps  and  Kidnie&^see  page  77* 

AUGUST  10.    No.  223.    BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Soup  SantS^ 

Removed  with  FISH, 

Removed  with 

A  Ham  braised^  glazed^ 
and  Beans. 


Unib  Cutlets  & 
CucBruber  Sauce. 


Twderones  of 

Veal  and 
Stewed  Peas. 


Vol  event  of 
Sweetbread. 


Compdle  of 
Pigeons  and 
Moshrooms. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Quails^ 


i    Wai  B^et 

of  Fra\>n9. 


Raised 
Pie  with 
Maccarooi. 


I  Frame.  | 


Beef  Olives. 


Petit  Pat^. 


Matelot  of 

Rabbit. 


Seniels  of  Farce, 

and 
Sauce  Piquant. 


Soup  Cressy^ 

Removed  with  FISH, 

Removed  with 
A  Chine  of  Mutton, 


Stewed  Peas. 


ChantiUy 

Basket. 


Masbrooms. 


Raised  Pie  |  Cedcrata 
a  la        11    Cream. 
Fran9oi8e. 


Ragodt  Mill^ 


Savoy  Cake. 


French  Beans 
in  Sauce. 


Basket  with 
Pastry. 


A  Leveret* 


320 


AUGUST  11.    No.  224.  BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Soup  a  la  Reiney 

Removed  with  FISH, 
Removed  with 

^  Haunch  of  Venison^ 


Lambs' Feet  and 
Asparagas  Peas. 


Breast  of  Veal 
and  a  Ragodt. 


Petit  Pat6s. 


Two  Chickens 
a  la  Reme. 


Fillet  of 

Beefiarded, 

glazed,  and 

Spanish 

ISauce. 


Fricoudvau 

with  the 

Udder 

glazed,  and 
Sorrel 
Sauce. 


Fillets  of  Sole 
&  ia  Itttlienne. 


Small  Mmton 
Pies. 


Two  Ducks  a  la 
Daubo&  Turnips 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Pigeons. 


Artichokes. 


Currant  and ' 
Raspberrj  Tart. 


Mashrooms. 


Peas. 


Jelly. 


Shoulder  of 
X^mb. 


Fondues  IB  dock 

T 


J  Frame.  | 


Spinach  in  Boies 


Fricassee  of 
Rabbit  and 
Mushrooms. 


'  Soup  Santi, 

Removed  with  FISH, 
^        Removed  wiijh 

A  Sirloin  of  Beef. 


Cederata  Cream. 


Stewed  Peas., 


GooseberrjTait 


Fr«icli  Betas. 


A  Goosey 


■■ » . 


f^ 


321 

AUGUST  Ifi.    No-  225.    BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 
Soup  a  la  ReinCy 

RemoTed  with  FISH* 
ReraoTed  with 

ji  Haunch  of  Venison, 


LAmb  Cuileis 

and  Cucumber 

Sauce. 


Tivo  Chickens 
^    a  la  Ueine. 


Shoulder  oi  Lami 

fofccd,- 

larded»  gf aztd, 

&  Sorrel  Saucp. 


:9bfiTi<»»of  Fowl 
'  &  Mushrooms. 


Small  Rdiscd 
Pies 
with  Beef. 


iMatefbt  of  Tench 
and  Eels. 


Two  Sweetbreads 

larded,  elazed, 

and  an  Emince. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Tifo  Turkei/  Poulii^ 

one  lardfcd. 


Basket  of  Pastry. 


French  Beans 
in  Saace. 


Souticft  of  Sole 
5c  Italian  Sauce. 


Mushroom 
Fritters. 


Ragoa?  Mell^. 


A  Soutie  of 
Saeetbread. 


Soop  Santtf, 

removvd  with 

Fkh,  nmovca 

wUb  a  Ham 

anA  Bcaiu. 


I  Frame,  f 


I  Carrot  Soup, 
remoTed  with 
Fish,  removed 
with  a  Ramp 

ofBiefaad 
Stewed 

Cabbage. 


Jeilj  ao  Marbre. 


Shvov  Ciiktf. 


Peas. 


Omelet  SonfBe. 


Raspberry- 
Gream. 


Grtmadines 

and 

Asparagus  Pea» 


Uarricot  of 
Mutton. 


Petit  Pft^s. 


Souties  of 
Rabbit. 


Fillet  of  Beef 
'nrded,gUze<l»  & 
Spanish  Saucr. 


Two  Chickens 
and  Tarragon. 


Pigeons  a  la 
Crapaudiiie  an<.' 
PipManr  Sthc 


Giblet  Soup  d  la  'I  oriiie, 

Removtrl  y\  rh  MSH,  -emoveH  %*iil 
A  Chine  of  I\Ju(ton 


|Trame.  J 


Leveret. 


Strawberry 
Cream, 


^T- 


^luelet  Souffle. 


Goes:- berry 
Tan. 


SlCkveH  Peas. 


A  Sa»'f»y 
Cat*'. 


Orange  Jelly 
au  Marbre. 


R8g9ttl  Mell6. 


M  It » broom 
Fritters. 


French  Beans. 


Bucket  of 
Pastry. 


f'   rlungs. 


,l»,»l 


32« 


AUGUST  IS.    No.  226.    BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Soup  Cress jfy 
Removed  wilh  FlSH^  removed  witb 

A  Hamj  braisedy  glazed, 

*  and  Beans. 


White  Collops 
and  Cucumber. 


Venison  Fry. 


A  Smail  Raised 

Pie  with 

Beefsteaks^ 


Leg  of  Lamb 
a  la  Reine. 


Lambda  Feet  and 
Asparagus  P«as. 


Beef  Tremblauc, 

glazed)  and  a 

Pur^e  of  Roots. 


A  Small 

Raised  Pie 

with  Pii^eons. 


SECOND  COURSE, 


Two  Turket/  PoultSy 

one  larded. 


Wax  Basket. of 
Prawns. 


Breast  of  Veal  & 
Stewed  Peas. 


French  Beans 
in  Sance. 


Jell  J  a«  Marbre. 


■ 


SoupJulien 
removed 

with  Fi&h, 
removed 

with  a  Fillet 
of  Veal. 


§  Frame.  S 


Soap  a  la 
Flamond, 
removed 
with  Fish, 
rem.  witli 
Neck  of 
Venison. 


Ham  brajs>ed, 
glased,  and 
Beans. 


A  Small 
Raised  Pie,  with 
Lamb. 


Three  Chickens 
a  la  Reine. 


Maccaroni. 


l*astry. 


Caromel  l^asket 
of  Pastrjr. 


Stewed  Peas. 


Raspberrjf 
Cream. 


Mushrooms 
in  Boxes. 


A  Chaotill^ 
Ba&Let. 


Leveret, 


i 


« 


^  Frame,  f 


Sbonlder  of 
Lamb. 


A  Smail 

Raised  Pie 

a  la  Fran^oise. 


Ratifie 
Pudding. 


Ox  Rumps 
and  CaSbage« 


Fricassee  uf 
Rabbit  and 
Mushroom?. 


Two  breasts  of 
Lamb  glazed, 
and  Spinach. 


A  Sou  tie  of 
Fowl. 


Fondues 
in  Cases. 


Scup  and  Bout  lie  y 

Removed  with  FISH^ 
Removed  with 

Roast  Beef, 


Strawberry' 
Cream. 


Peas,  plain. 


Caromel  Bat>kci 
of  Pastry. 


Gateau 
Miilefleur. 


lUgodt 

Mell6. 


Orange 
Jelly  au  iSarbre. 


French  Beans. 


Wax  Basket  ol 
Prawns. 


Grouse, 


3t3 

No.esdi    SMALL  BAISED. FIE  WITH 

PIGEONS. 

The  pie  should  not  be  more  than  two  inches  and  a  half 
high :  pigeoias  that  have  been  5(erved  up  as  a  compot®  will 
do  for  this^.-or  pigeons  that  have  been  roasted;  split  them 
•ed  pHt-»  little  istoek  -and  cotilis^  and  six  yolks  of  eggs 
boiled  hard^  raise  the  pie  and  fill  it  with  bran,  and  bake  it 
without  a  cover ;  when  donjs,  clean  the  bran  m^U  out  ^nji 
fill  it  with  the  pigeons.  j 

*  * 

N.  B.   These  pies  are  generally  called  rims^  and  sent  tb^ 
table  without  the  covers. 


I    !■      » 


..    11 


■ '     .     »  .-     ':  A 


334 


AUGUST  14.    No.2fi7-  BI£L  OE  JARE. 


FIRST.  COURSE. 


•    .  *    r    .         / 


Seventeen  Dishes  on  each 
'  Side, 


Six  Hdups, 
2  of  Crewv. 


6  Fishes. 


I » 


Six  Hemobfs^ 
Haunch  of  Venison. 
Roast  Beef. 
Fillft    of  Beef    larded,    and 

Spanish  Sauce. 
Neck  of  Mutton  larded,  gla«ed, 

and  a  Pur^e  of  Roots. 
Fricandeau  and  Sorrel  Sancc. 
Lamb   Cutlets   larded.   Breast 
rolled,  nnd  Sorr«»l  .>anre. 


Four  Fish  Entres, 
Matt  lot  of  Tench. 
Spitchcocked  Eels, 
Corp  Baked. 
A  Pike  baked. 

S!  Diithes  of  Tongue   and  Bar 

berries. 
g  Pisheg  of  Ponlet  a  l» Dnrhesse. 

^  Di.«hes  ut  i><>uues  ot  Muiluu 
and  Cucumbers. 
9  Dishes  of  Tenderones  of  Veal 
and  Mn.«;hroonis 


SI  J>|^hcs  oi  Harriioi  oi  iViulton. 
fi  Di6hes  of  Ducks  forced,  and 
stewed  Pe««. 


9  Dtshes  ol  Curee  ui  Kabbit. 
2  Petit  Pal  6s. 


Neck  of  Veal  a  la  Be^heiueii. 

Neck  of  Venison. 

Haunch  of  J^mb.  larded,  and 

Chevreuil  Sauce. 
A  Turkey  larded,  and  a  RagoAt. 

Flanks, 
A  Westphalia  Ham  glazed,  and 

Beaijf, 
A  Rump  of  Beef  a  la  Mantna. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Nineteen  Disfhes  on  emh 
Side. 


Six  R^aaU^ 


A'  Capon. ' 
6  Pigeons. 
A  Leveret. 
2  Ducks. 
QaaUs. 
Rabbits. 


4  Jellies,  2  Clear  and  ft  Oraoge. 

2  Raspberry  Creams. 

3  Cederata  Creams. 


4Gitm  Paste  Baskets  of  Paslrj 

and  Meringues. 
4  Wax  BaskeU  of  Prswns  and 

Cray.  fish. 


2  of  Pea9,  stewed  and  plaio. 
S  of  Cauliflower. 
9  of  French  Beans  in  Sauce. 
2  of  Artichokes. 


2  Ragufits. 
2  Maccarou). 


4  Tarts. 


2  cold  Pieces* 


Flanki. 


Six  Tlcmoves* 
3  Ratifie  Puddings. 
5  Fondues. 


*f' 


525 


EELS  SPITCHCOCKED. 

Skin  two  middling  sized  eels^  and  bone  them ;  flat  tliem 
well  to  prevent  them  from  curling  up ;  then  cut  them  in 
lengths  about  two  inches  long;  then  put  aboiitt  three 
ounces  of  butter,  into  a  rtew-pan,  with  chopped  parsley, 
thjoacy  shalots>  sage^  and  pepper  and  salt ;  put  the  stew* 
pan  oyer  the  stove ;  when  the  butter  is  melted^  take  the 
stew-pan  from  the  fire^  and  put  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  in ; 
mix  them  well  with  the  butter ;  then  dip  the  eel  in  (one 
piece  at  a  time)>  and  roll  it  in  bread  crumbs :  make  as 
much  stick  to  it  as  you  can ;  either  broil  them  on  the  grid- 
iron over  a  clear  fire^  or  do  them  in  a  soutie-pan  the  same 
as  lamb  cutlets ;  they  should  be  of  a  nice  brown  before 
they  are  dished  up,  and  should  be  laid  on  a  clean  cloth  to 
soak  the  fat  from  them ;  put  them  round  the  dish  and 
picked  parsley  in  the  middle ,  send  anchovy  and  butter  in  a 
boat. 

TURKEY  LARDED. 

It  should  be  larded  very  thicks  and  as  low  down  the 
breaiit  bs  possible ;  before  it  is  larded,  put  some  good 
white  staffing  in  the  crop ;  put  it  on  the  spit ;  then  put 
siieets  of  fat  bacon  over  it^  and  three  sheets  of  lai^  white 
paper  o^er  that ;  tie  it  on,  but  not  very  tight  over  the 
breast ;  it  will  take  about  an  hour  to  roast  (when  the  turn- 
keys are  full  grown,  they  will  take  longer) ;  put  a  ragoAt  of 
livers,  combs,  mushrooms,  and  sweetbreads,  on  thedish^ 
uid  then  the. turkey. 

'      EGGS  A  LA  POULET. 

Boil  eight  new  eggs  hard ;  when  done,  put  them  in  cold 
A'ater ;  then  take  the  shells  off,  but  do  not  break  them  ; 
ut  a  small  bit  off  the  end  off  four,  so  as  to  make  theni 
land  upright  oa-the  dish ;  put  them-  down  the  middle  of 


326 

the  dish ;  split  the  other  four;  through  the  middle  and  l«j 
them  round  the  side  of  the  dish ;  make  a  sufficient  quantity 
of  besheme]!  hot^  put  a  little  chopped  parsley  in,  and  pour 
it  over  the  eggs;  garnish  with  croutons^  . 

N.  B.  Tlie  parsley  should  not  be  boiled,  neither  in  the 
isauce  or  before  it  is  chopped. 

GROUSE  BRAISED,  AND  CABBAGR 

Draw  the  legs  of  the  grouse  in  the  same  manner  as 
chickens  for  boiling,  lay  the  bottom  of  the  stew-pan  with 
fat  bacon ;  put  in  about  a  pint  of  stock,  a  few  shalots^  a 
fagot  of  thyme,  parsley,  and  a  few  blades  of  mace,  two 
or  three  bay-leaves ;  then  put  in  the  grouse ;  blanch  off  two 
cabbages,  cut  them  in  quarters  ;  let  them  boil  until  half 
done ;  then  take  them  up  and  put  them  in  cold  water; 
when  cold,  squeeze  each  quarter  of  the  cabbage  very  dry 
with  your  hands ;  then  press  them  with  a  clean  cloth ;  tie 
each  bundle  up  with  twine  and  put  them  in  the  stew-pan 
with  the  grouse,  to  imbibe  the  flavour  of  the  grouse ;  tbej 
will  take  about  an  hour  over  a  very  slow  fire,  if  they  are 
young  they  will  not  take  so  long;  when  they  are  done, 
strain  off  Uie  liquor  and  skim  the  fatofT;  put  a  bit  of  bat- 
ter into  a  stew-pan  and  put  it  over  the  fire ;  when  melted 
add  as  much  fiour  as  will  dry  it  up  ;  dien  put  the  liquor  the 
grouse  was  done  in  by  a  little  at  a  time ;  keep  stirring  it 
while  on  the  fire ;  when  it  has  boiled  a  few  minutes,  stnin 
it'Off  into< another  stew-pan;  season  it  by.piitting  alitde 
Cayenne  pepper  and  a  little  lemon  juice;  put  the  grouse 
on  the  dish  and  the  cabbage  round  the  grouse;  pot 
the  sauce  over  the  gr4>use  and  cabbage.  Garnish^  with 
carrot. 

GROUSE  ROASTED. 
They  will  take  about  fifteen  minutesroastiog;  fil3t  naf 


337 

bem^  and  then  baste  and  flour  them ;  sprinkle  them  with 
our  and  salt  just  before  they  are  taken  up. 

N.  B.  They  are  skewered  the  same  as  partridges ;  put 
Dod    gravy  in  the  dish^   and  send    bread   tauce  in  a 

Mt. 

QUAILS. 

They  are  skewered  similar  to  partridges ;  put  a  vine- 
af  over  the  breast^  and  bacon  over  the  vine-leaf;  about 
m  minutes  will  roast  them ;  put  gravy  on  the  dish^  and 
len  the  quails;  leave  the  vine-leaves  op ;  send  bread-sauce 
I  a  boat« 


328 
AUGUST  15.    No,  2£8     BILL  OF  FARE- 


FIRST  COURSE. 
Seventeen  Dishes  pf  a  Side, 


4  Turlle. 

5  Sant^. 


Six  Tvkrtnneu 


Six  Diihes  of  Fish, 

4  Sea  Fish. 

5  fresh-water,  diUo»  . 


l']MateIot  of  Tench. 
1  of  Fike  baked. 


Six  Hemo9et, 
1  Haunch  of  Venisoiiy }  Top  and 
1  Sirloin  of  Beef,         )  Bottom. 
3  Dishes  of  Chickens  boiled)  a  la 

Reine. 
1  Leg  ofL^mb  boiled  &  Spinach. 
1  Neck  of  Mutton  boiled,  and  a 

Puree  of  Tn mips. 

Four  Latdings, 
1  Fillets  of  Fowl  and  Mushrooms. 
1  Filletsof  Rabbit&FrenchBeans. 
1  Grenadines  and  Sorrel  Sauce. 
1  Mutton  Cutlets  and  a  Pur6e  of 
Potatoes. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Nineteen  Dishes  of  a  Side, 


Ftmr  Sffuties, 
1  of  Leveret. 
1  of  Fowl. 
1  of  Sole. 
1  of  Salmon. 


f  Dishes  of  Pent  \)Ms, 
2  Ditto  of  Lamb  Cutlets  and  Cu- 
cumber. 


t  Dishes  ot  White  Coilops. 

S  Ditto  of  Tenderones  of  Lamb 

and  Asparagus  Peas. 


1  Roulards  of  Mutton  and  Harri- 

cot  Saace. 
iRoulard  of  Veal  &Ravigot  Sauce. 

2  Dishes  of  Ox  Humps  &  Cabbage. 


1  Chtne  of  Mutton. 
1  Loin  of  Veal. 
Ham  braised,  and  Beans. 
Rump  of  Beef  a  la  Daobe,  and 
Spanish  Sauce. 


Ftttnks. 
2 Raised  Pies,  1  Pigeon,! Venison. 


SixHoa$U, 

2  of  Grouse. 

1  of  Quails^ 

lof  twoTorkej  poiilt«».onelud€d. 

1  otLevereL  . 

1  of  Pigeona. 


Four  Gum  PmU  BatkeU 
Pattry, 

2  ofSivojrCakef. 
2ofChantillj,  ditto. 


2  Jellies  Marbre. 
2  Creams  with  Wafers,  painted 
on  the  top. 


2  Ripe  Apricot  Tar  la. 
2  Currant  Tarta.  - 


Eight  Legumes,  tacamskisf 

2  of  Peas. 

2  of  French  Beans. 
2  of  Mushrooms. 
2  of  Cauliflowers. 


2  of  Ragofit  McH^. 
2  of  Ham  and  Eggs. 


2  Mficcaronies. 
2  Omelets. 


2  Cold  Pieces  for  the  Flanks. 


339 

No.  £28,    RIPE  APRICOT  TART. 

.  Stone  the  apricots  and  cut  them  in  half's ;  sheet  the! 
tart-pan  with  pufF-paste ;  put  in  the  apricots^  and  sifted 
lump  sugar  sufficient  to  make  it  palatable ;  cross-bar  it 
over,  when  baked ;  put  it  to  get  cold ;  when  cold,  just 
bold  the  tart  dish  over  the  Stove  for  a  minute,  then  it  will 
torn  out. 

COLD  PIECES. 

Tongue  boiled,  and  put!  to  get  cold ;  when  cold  trim  it, 
and  garnish  it  vrith  fat  plovers,  and  chopped  aspect  on  the 
middle  and  round  the  dish. 

■s.  * 

A  HAM 

Should  be  braised ;  vAen  cold  finish  it  m  the  same 
manner  as  tfae^longue* 


330 


AUGUST  16.    No.  2S9.    BILL  OF  FARE. 


1^      FIkSITCoUksk 

«  I       III. 

Seventeen  Dishes  of  a  Side. 


Six  Ture^m* 
4  of  Turtle." 
9  o('^  Ja  FJammond. 


Hix  nUhes  of  Fish  tQ  Remove  the 
Soupi, 

4  Sea  Fish. 

5  Frc.^h- water  Pish. 


Ait  Rfmave9  for  the  Fish* 
HawncbofV«nison,)     «  , 

Loia  of  Veal  a  lai     i^?*''*^ 
Beshemell,       )     Bottom. 
Chine  of  Mutton. 
Westphalia  Ham  braised. 
Neck  of  Venison. 


Four  Fish  Entr^s, 
Matelot  of  Tench. 
Fillets  of  Sole  a  ia  Italienne. 
Catlett  of  Sahaon  and  Captrs. 
Semels  af  Carp. 


2  Dishes  of  Fricassee  of  Chicken 

and  Mushrooms. 

3  Dishes  of   Lamb's   Feel   and 
Aaparagos  Peas. 


«  Dishes  of  Petit  Pfties. 
8  Vole  vents. 

2  Dishes  of  Matelot  of  Rabbit. 
2  of  Civet  of  Leveret. 


2  Dishes  ot  Chicken  si  la  Reine. 
2  of  Tame  Pigeons  k  la  Reine. 


Four  Lardingi, 
1  of  Fillet  of  Beef  &  Spanish 

Saace. 
1  Shoulder  of  Lamb  forced,  and 

Sorrel  Sauce. 
1  Grenadines  with  a^i  Emince. 
1  Two  Ducklings  boned,  forced, 

and  larded,  and  Turn ips. 


2  Veal  Olives. 

2  Harricot  of  Mutton. 


Flanki, 
Fillet  of  Veal. 
Rump  of  Btef  a  la  Mantoa. 


b^COiND  COURSE. 


Nineteen  Dishes  of  a  Side. 


Six  Hoatts^ 

1  of  QaaiJs. 

2  of  Grouse. 

2  of  Rixffk  and  Reeves. 
1  of  Leveret. 


4  Savoj  Cakea, 


4  Caramel  Baskets. 
2  with  Mermgos. 
2  trith  small  Pastrj. 


2  of  clear  Jelljr. 
2ofOrangeJel]j, 


Four  TarU. 

1  ofCodliag. 
i  of  Apricot. 

2  of  Currant  and  Raspberry. 


2  of  Lobster  au  Gratin. 
2  Anchovie  Toasts. 


2  Omelets. 
2  Ragodts. 


Eight  Legumes, 
2  of  Peas  stewed,  one  plain  boiled. 
2  of  French  Beans. 
2  of  Cucnmbers  forced. 
2  of  Mushrooms. 


2  Cold  Pieces  for  the  Flanks. 


Six  Removes  to  Remove  the  Rotst, 
3  Muffin  Puddings. 
3  Fondues. 


331 

No.  229.    RUFFS  AND  REEVES. 

They  are  dressed  in  the  same  manner  &s  quails ;  put  bars 
)f  bacon  over  them  ;  about  ten  minutes  will  roast  them ; 
put  good  gravy  in  the  dbh^  and  then  the  birds.  Garnish 
Arlth  water-cresses.^ 

CODLING  TARTS. 

Sheet  a  tart-pan  with  short  paste ;  peel  and  core  the  cod- 
ings^ aad  put  them  in  the  tart>pan ;  put  sifted  sugar  over 
beni^andveryltttlewater^  and  finish  the  same  as  other  tarts. 


332 


AUGUST  17.    No.2S0.    BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Seoenieen  Dishes  of- a  Side, 


4  Tureens  of  Turtle. 

5  Tureens  Clear  Soup, 
1  t>f  Grouse. 

1  of  Vermicelli. 


6  Disbcs  of  Fish  to  remove  the 
Soup.         

6  Removes  to  remove  the  Fish. 


Haunch  of  Veujsou,>  lopaud  but- 
Chine  of  Mutton,     \      torn. 
Fillet  of  Veal. 

Haunch  o(  Lamb  larded,  &c« 
1  Chicken  a  ia  Heine. 
1  Chicken  boiled,  and  Tarragon 
Sauce. 


Four  Fish  £ntr6$. 
1  Red  Mullet  in  Cases. 
1  Soutie  of  Soles. 
1  Fillet  of  Turbot. 
Fillets  of  Salmon    rolled. 
Capers. 


Four  EntrcM  of  TuriU, 
1  White  Collopi. 
1  Brown  Ditto. 
t  of  CutleU. 


2  Tenderones  of  Veal  and  stewed 
Peas. 


t  ot  Poulets  &  la  Ouchesse. 


9  Dishes  of  Kisoles  in  Pastt. 
2  of  Crokets. 


and 


3  Raised  Pies  of    Mutton  and 

Potatoes. 
2  Raised  Pies  of  Beef  Steaks. 


2  Harricots  of  Mutton. 
2  Dishes  of  Breasts    of   Lamb 
rolled*  lie. 


2  Dishes  of  Grouse  braised,  and 

Cabbage. 
2  Corapdte  of   Pigeons  and    a 

Ragoiit. 


Flanks. 
A  Westphalia  Ham  and  Beans. 
Roast  Ribs  of  Beef,  boned  and 
rolled. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Nineteen  Dishes  of  a  SUs, 

Six  Roasts, 

2  of  Torkej  Poolts,  larded, 

1  Quails. 

2  of  Ruffs  and  Reeves. 
1  Leveret. 


Four  Gum  PasU  Bosktts, 

2  with  Small  Pastrj. 
2  with  Meringues. 


2  Clear  Jellies  au  Marbre. 
2  Orange  Jellies  an  Marbre. 
2  Rasplierrj  Cream. 
2  ChantiUjr  Cakes. 


2  Ripe  Apricot  Tarts. 
2  Morel  Cherrjr  Tarts. 

Four  YTtfx  Baskets, 

2  with  Prawns. 
2  with  Cray-fish. 


Eight  Legumes, 

2  Peas^l  stewed,  and  1  plus* 
2  Caulifiowers,  with  Sauce. 
2  of  Artichoke  Bottom»>  ^^^ 

Sauce. 
2  French  Beant — 1  plsio* 

1  in  sauce. 


2  Raf^&ts. 

2  Broiled  Mushrooms. 


Flanks. 

2  Colds— 1  Ham,  and  1  D«< 
Fowl. 


Six  Remotes* 

S  Fondues. 

3  Ratifie  Puddings. 

■  ■  ■    » »  *   ■■■■■■        ■  ■ 


033 


No.  230.    RIBS  OF  BEEF,  ROLLED. 

Bone  the  ribs  of  beef,  and  beat  it  with  the  flatter,  and 
m  it  round  like  a  fillet  of  veal ;  when  done  take  the  iron 
ewers  out,  and  put  silver  ones  in. 


WHITE  COLLOPS  OF  TURTLE. 

They  are  done  the  same  as  veal,  only  use  the  white 
^t  ef  the  turtle  instead  of  veal. 


SCORCH  COLLOPS  OF  TURTLE, 

Are  done  the  same  way  as  veal ;  only  use  turtle  for  the 
ce-nieat,  the  same  manner  as  veal;    and  put  all  the 
er  ingredients  that  are  used  for  force-meat ;  for  which 
Appbnoix, 


AUGUST  18.    No.  231.    BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 
Seventeen  Dishes  of  a  Side, 


4  lurecus ol Turtle. 
2  Clear  Soups. 


Six  Dishes  of  Fish  to  remove  ihujfS, 

4  St&  Fifth. 

2  Fresh-water  I)itto. 


Six  Removes  to  remove  the  Fish, 
Haunch  of  Venison,  >    top   and 
Sirloin  of  Beef,  )     bottom. 

Tongue»  glased  and  ornamented. 
Loin  of  Veal. 
Chine  of  Larab. 
Neck  of  Venison. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Nineteen  Dishes  of  a  Side* 


Six  Roasta, 

3  of  Grooic, 

1  of  Quails. 

ft  of  Ruffs  and  Reeves. 

1  of  Tuikey  Poults,  one  larded. 


Four  tntr6s  of  Turtle, 
1  Roasted    ia    the   Manner    of 

Svreetbreadt,    done    with 

Bread-cruutbs. 
1  as  boiled  Chicken  and  Saoce  | 

•  la  Reine. 
1  af  Souties  of  the  Lirer. 
1  the  Tripe,  and  Onion  Sauce. 


Four  Lardings, 

1  Fricondeau  of  Turtle  and  Sor- 
rel Sauce. 

1  Cutlets  of  Toirtle  larded,  and 
Asparagus  Peas.  * 

1  Fowl,  boned,  forced,  &  larded, 
and  Mushrooms. 

1  Fillets  of  Rabbit  and  French 
Beans. 


Four  Caromel  Batkett, 

ft  with  Pastry, 

2  with  Spanish  Fritters. 


4  Dishes  of  Alraond  Shapes,  with 
Cream. 


4  Savoy  Cokes. 


^  J  nubuUs. 
3  Chartreuses. 


21  Pent  Pfttfcs. 
2  Volevt'iits. 


it  Lantb  Cutlets  &  Cucum. Sauce. 
2  Teitderones  of  Veal  and  stewed 
Peas. 


2  Souties  ut  Le-verst. 
2  of  Cutlets  of  Salmon  &  Capers. 
2  ol  Chicken  a  la  Reine. 
1  Leg  of  Lamb  boiled,  and  Sauce 
•  U  Reine. 


1  Meek  of  Mutton  boiled,  aud  a 
Pur^  of  Turnips. 


FUmks, 
Ham,  braised,  glazed,  and  Beais. 
Chine  of  Mutton. 


2  Orange  Souffles. 
2  Italian  Creams. 


Eight  Legumes. 
2  of  Peas — 1  stewed  and  1  plsin. 
2  French  Beans— 1  with  Sauce. 
2  Cauliflowers. 
2  Mushroams. 


2  of  Livers  iu  Cases. 
2  of  Fondues  in  Cases. 


2  Aspect  Jellies. 
2  Italian  Sal  lads. 


-H 


Flanks^ 
Lobster  Cake. 
Ham  and  Veal  Cake. 


9Si» 
No.  931.    TURTLE,  ROASTED. 

-  »  •  •  • 

The  part  that  is  roasted  is  taken  from  the  biadti  |)on«  : 
at  it  into  a  stew^panj  ai^d  set  it  over  the  fire  to  boil  for. 
bout  two  minutes^  or  till  the  noLeat  19  «ufficieiitly  set ;  put 
on  a  lark-spit,  a^id  brush  it  ov€r  with  eggs^  and  then 
ut  as  much  bread  crumbs  as  you  can  make  stick  on ; 
ten  put  oiled  butter  over  the  turtle;  then  tie.it  an  the 
>asting  spit ;  about  half  an  hour  will  roast  it.  Make  the 
uce  the  same  as  you  would  for  sturgeon  (for  which  see 
ppENDix.)  Put  a  little  of  the  turtle  soup  to  the  sauce- 
ter  it  is  rubbed  through  the  tammy ;  put  the  sauce  on 
e  dish  and  then  the  turtle. 

N.B.  All  the  dishes  that  are  intended  for  turtle  entr^t 
ok  best  with  a  rim  of  paste  round  them>  dnd  a  turtle^, 
ad  and  tins  at  each  end  of  the  dish  ;  by  so  doing  the 
mpany  will  kilbw  the  turtle  entr^s  from  the  other  dishes, 
le  paste  should  be'fbnned  to-  the  size  of  the  dish  on 
king  sheets^  and  laid  en  the  dish  ;  by  so  doing  the  dishes 
J  riot  soiled. 


JRTLE  BRIASED  WHITE,    TO  LOOK  LIKE 

:         CfflCKENS; 

Cut  two  pieces  of  the  whitest  part  of  the  lean  meat  of 

turtle^  about  the  size  of  a  chicken  ;  put  them  on  to 

nch  ;  when  the  water  comes  to  a  boil,  take  th^m  off  the! 

,  and  pour  the  hot  water  fiom  the  turtle,  and  put  cold 

ter  to  it;  let' it  remain  ni  wat(?r  an  hour,  or  thereabouts ; 

n  cover  the  hOttoni  of  a  stew-pan  with  fat  bacon ;  then 

in  the  pieces  bf  turtle,  peel' a  lemon  quite  to  the  pulp, 

it  in  thin  sUces>  apd  put.theijn  over  the.  turtle,  and  fat 

on  over  th^  lenfon ;  put  about  a  pint  of  stock,  a  few 

^n6,  'a-  fagotof' turtle  iherbs;.aet  the  stew-ptmon  the 

to  'simmer'gkitlyffor'ateut  half  an*  hour;  when  done 

r'tiie-  l^uor'^fr^m.  tbe  turtb;  leave  .the  turtle  in. the 

i^^pan  to  keep  hot  until  wanted  4  skim  the  fat  fcom  tlM 


liquor ;  then  put  about  half  an  ounce  of  butter  into  i 
stew-pan ;  when  melted  put  flour  sufficient  to  dry  up  Ae 
butter,  then  some  of  the  liquor  the  turtle  was  done  in^  and 
a  little  cream ;  let  it  boil  a  few  minutes ;  then  strain  it 
through  the  tammy ;  the  sauce  should  be  rather  thicker 
than  beshemelL  Take  the  turtle  up^  and  put  it  on  the 
dish;  put  cauliflower  round  the  disb^  and  the  sauce  over 
the  turtle  and  cauliflower. 

FRICANDEAU  OF  TURTLE. 

The  fricandeau  is  taken  from  the  shoulder^  and  finished 
the  same  as  a  fncandeau  of  veal. 

A  SOUTIE  OF  THE  LIVER  OF  THE  TURTLE. 

Butter  a  soutie^pan  and  sprinkle  it  over  with  chopped 
turtle  herbs  and  chopped  piushrooms;  cut  the  liver  in 
slices,  and  put  it  on  the  soutie-pan  i  put  them  on  the  fire  ^ 
when  it  has  been  on  about  two  minutes  ;  turn  the  liver ; 
when  done  put  it  round  the  dish^  and  a  little  turtle  soup 
in  the  middle. 

TRIPE  OF  THE  TURTLE  AND  ONION 

SAUCE. 

Put  the  tripe  into  a  stew-pan^  and  cover  it  with  slices 
of  lemon^  and  bacon  over  the  lemon ;  put  a  pint  of  second 
stock,  and  put  it  over  the  stove  to  simmer  until  tender; 
when  done  take  it  up,  and  put  it  on  a  clean  cloth,  then  on 
the  dish,  and  put  the  sauce  over  the  tripe.  The  sauce  is 
made  the  same  way  as  for  a  fricassee  of  rabbit. 

CUTLETS  OF  TURTLE,  LARDED. 

Cut  about  ten  cutlets,  the  size  aud  shape  of  a  veal 
cutlet ;  lard  them  very  close,  and  fiilish  the  same  at  veal 
cutlets;  lay  them  round  the  didi,  and  th«  sawe  IP  tbs 
middle.  ;  .      ;$  . 


J 


337 

DAUBED  FOWLS, 

AND  SAUCE  A  LA  ITALIENNE. 

Bone  *  two  large  fowls,^  and  put  a  piece  of  the  prime 
part  of  a  Westphaliu  ham,  that  has  been  braised,  and  fill 
them  up  with  farce  (when  trutles  are  to  be  had  put  a  few 
ill)  ;  put  the  bones  of  the  fowls  into  a  stew-pan,  and  any 
other  trhnmhigs  of  poultry  ;  a  fevv  slices  of  raw  lean  ham, 
two  or  three  onions,  a  faggot  of  thyme  and  parsley,  au<J 
a  few  blade»  of  jnace  ;  a  quart  of  very  good  stock,  three 
or  four  bay-leaves;  then  put  in  ibe  fowls,  and  cover  them 
with  sheets  of  bacon,  and  white  paper  over  that ;  put 
them  over  a  slow  stove,  to  simmer  gently  for  an  hour ; 
when  done  pour  ttie  liquor  olf  into  a  basin,  and  skim  the 
fat  off  it  very  clean ;  then  put  about  an  ounce  of  butter 
into  a  stew-paa;  .when  melted  put  as  much  .floiir  as  will 
Aj  k  up'}  then>put  in  the  liquor  the  fowls  were  done  in, 
and  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  double  cream,  that  has  been 
boiled,  (all  cream  should  be  boiled  the  instant  it  comes 
into  the  kitchen,  as  tlve  heat  of  the  kitqhen  is  very  apt 
to  turn  it  sower);  set  the  stew-pan  on  the  fire,  keep 
stirring  it  until"  it  boils  ;  let  it  boU  a  few  minutes,  then 
strain 'it  throagh  .die  tammy ;  then  take  the  fowls  up,  and 
put  than  on  a  clean  cloth  to  6oak  the  fat  from  them; 
then  plat  them  oa  the  dish ;  put  a  littie  sauce  ovei^  them, 
and  just  before  leaving  the  kitchen  put  the  remainder. 
Ganiish  with  paste  or  croutons. 

N.B.  Ifihefdwk  are  not  cut  they  will  do  for  a  pie,  or 
ornamenting. 


ITALIAN  S  ALL  ADS. 

Cut  the  breast  of  two  dressed  fowls,  when  cold  (it  is 
immaterial  whether  boiled  or  roast)  into  coUops,  the  s^me 
as  for  a  hlanquet,  only  considerably  thicker ;  put  some 
chopped  aspic  in  the  sauce^  and  finish  the  same  as  Dutch 
sullad. 


338 

FOWL  A  LA  DAUBE,  LARDED. 

Bone  a  large  fowl ;  put  a  small  piece  of  ham  in  the 
fowl,  and  fill  it  with  force  ;  lard  it  very  close,  and  finish 
it  as  is  mentioned  in  page  29. 

CHANTILLY  BASKET  OF  WAFERS. 

The  wafers  may  be  had  at  the  confectioners ;  ihcy  are 
stuck  on  the  dish  in  the  same  manner  as  the  ratifies,  and 
finished  the  same  w  ay. 

APRICOT  TOURTE. 

* 

Sheet  the  tart-pan^  stone  the  apricots^  and  split  them 
in  half;  put  sifted  sugar  over  them^  and  cross  bar  it,  as 
fancy  directs. 

CODLING  TOURTE. 

Peel  the  codlings  very  thin,  cut  them  in  quarters,  cot 
the  cores  out,  put  them  in  a  stew-pan  with  a  few  spooiH- 
ful  of  water  and  a  lump  of  sugar  suflScient  to  sweeten 
them  (no  fruit  requires  so  much  sugar  before  they  are 
ripe  as  after) ;  put  them  on  a  fire  for  a  few  minutes ; 
when  they  are  soft  put  them  to  cool ;  when  quite  coU 
sheet  the  tart-pan  with  puiF  paste,  and  finish  it  the  same  as 
the  apricot. 


y\UGUST  If).     No.  2%^.     BIl.L  OF  FARR. 


Sevenfeen  l)i  hcs  of  a  Siffc. 


6ix  Turtti'iS. 
4  of  Tun V 
1  S  '1!}^  Smu^. 
1  Sq!u>  a  la  ll«  i»''. 


1  u  neui. 
4  Sea  Fisl". 
2  Fr«'?li-wJi'fr  O  tlo. 


SECOND^'COURSK. 


Nineteen  Dishes  of  a  Side 


Hix  IJishen  Lo  ronvt'e  the  I'uh. 
Hauncti  ol  VcMison.  >      K>|>  und 
Loin  of  Veal.  S     bottom. 


Side  Remoies. 
Chine  of  M<i  ton. 
brisket  of  Bt-ef  Treniblanc  and 

Roots. 
Brenst  of  Veal  stewed,  and  Peas. 
X»rk  of  V<M»ism. 


Six  lioas.i, 

1  of  QuaiN, 

1  of  Kutfs  and  R<  eves. 

iJofTurke^  Poulls. 

1  Xj'verel. 

1  of  Rcibbtts. 


4 Gum  P.iste  Baskris^  filleil  wiih 
Pa«>lr^-  and  Alinoml  S  u*ih. 


5J  Uislifbuf  i•■nca^see  Ol  (Ji»ickf»» 

and  Mushrooms. 
?  TenHpr»M»p«  of  L.Hnih  a  hi  Poiil  i 


i'our  Liininijys. 
1  FricanJeau   with    ihc   Udder, 

and  an  Kmince. 
1  Fillet  of  Beef  larded,  and  Spa 

nbfi  Sauce. 
1  Fowl  a  Itt  Daube,  larded,  and 

Asparagus  IVas. 
1  Two    Rabbits   a     la     Oporto, 

lflrde<4    pnd  S'»rrpl  Smre. 


g  Dishes  ol  Orousti  braistd,  and 

Cabbage. 
2  Dishes  of  Compete  of  Pigeons 

and  a  RiigoCir. 


4ChaiiliII:e8  ;  2  of  Walcrs,  and 
2  ol  Ratifies. 


2  D<shes  of  Chickens  a  la  Reine. 
A  Westphalia  Ham  and  Beans. 
A  FdletofVeal. 


2  Clear  Jellies  au  Marbre. 
2  Creams* 

2  Ripe  Apricot  r<>urle. 
2  Codliiiii  Toiirtfs. 


Eight  Legiimea, 

2  Peas ;  1  stewed,  and  I  plain. 

2  French  Beans. 

2  CanhfloH'crs. 

2  Artichoke  Bottoms  in  Sauce. 


2  RaeoCt  Melle. 


^  Dishes'  ol   Lamb  CuUets    and 

Cucumber  Sauce. 
2  D'shes  uf  Ris/»l»'^ 


2  Dishes  ol  Pent  fates 

2  DiJ'hrs  of  sni.ill   Mutton  Pie^. 


2  D  shcs  ot   Fillets  ot  Sale  a  la 

Italienne. 
2  Dishes    of    Fillets  .of   Salmon 

r<  lied,  and  Caper.«. 

i'Van/cs.. 
2  R«t.<.,?  Pio,. 


A     V/l|I^IUt9a 

4  Wax  Basktts. 
2  with  Prawns. 
2  with  CrayHbh. 

Flanhu 
2  Cold  Pieces. 

Six  llemoves  tn  remove  the  lioa&ii. 

3  Rat(fie  Puddings. 
3  Fondues. 


Q'i 


340 


A  Supper  far  500,  divided  for  Ten  TMes^  for  Auguit  19. 

The  Cross  Table  for  50,  and  (he  Two  down  the  Sides  for  80  each. 

Twenty-seven  Dishes  of  a  Side. 


5  ex. 

"O    9i  Of 

C     >  3 

*  2  «Cy 

J    "^    o    S 


g 


pi4 


•1^ 


.2  «.1R 


»-»     -CO 


-o  2  2 
o  o  o 


c 

X 


c 


f§' 


2  S 

on 


0/  TS 


•I   C   to   o  ^  ^   o 

e*e«9«e«e«9«'4ie«049«o«Q4M 


ja 
•« 
s 

O    1^    P    OS    w    2 
^  ^   S  S   >   s 


9 


I 


I   U 

»«    .52  o 

«M    W.     Vk. 

o  o  c 

«0  •*  90 


• 

«l/ 

^ 

■c 

$ 

•o 

» 

S 

s. 

« 

V 

JO 

^ 

-/) 

-o 

2 

c 

» 

o 

O 

a 

X 

-«J    . 

■» 

'«-   s 

V 

2  i 

« 

s  « 

> 

V    a. 

■5^ 

S 

q 

tk. 

* 

Forty-five  Dishes  of  a  Side, 

Eight  Soupt,  removed  wiih 
8  Hot  Roasts. 
4  Gum  Paste  Baskets  filled  with 

Pastry. 
4  WaxBaskets filled  witbShell  Fish. 
4  Chaiiiillies 
4  Savoy  Cakes. 
4  A4iiiond  Shapes  with  Cream. 
4  Jellies,  ft  Orange  and  2  Clear, 

ornaraentfd. 
4  Creams^  2  Buspberry  and  2  Ce- 

derata. 
4  Cold  Pies. 
4  Cold  Pieces. 
8  Galcntints. 
4  Siilludft. 

4  Aspec  Jellies,  ornamented. 
4ColdTArab. 
8  Cold  Kntr^9. 
4  CoM  Chickens. 
4  Dressed  Lobster  cold. 
8  Lcgiiiues,  4Peas.  4  French  Beans. 
2  Veal  Cakes  oriiauieoted. 
f  Hnre  Cakes,  diiffi. 
Fruit  &  Prf  serves  down  the  Middle. 


Forty 'five  Dishes  of  a  $i4k. 

Eight  50ttfM,  removed  wi(h 
8  Hot  Roasts. 
4  Gam  Paste  Baskets  filled  with 

Pastry. 
4  Wax  Baskets  filled  with  Shell  Fish 
4  Chantillies. 
4  Savoy  Cakes. 

4  Almond  Shapes  filled  with  Cream 
4  Jellies,   2  Orange  and  2  Clear, 

*  ornamented. 
4  Creams,  2  Raspberry  and  2  Ce- 

derate. 
4  Cold  Pits. 
4  Culd  Pieces. 
6  Galen  lines. 

4  Sallads,  2  Dutch  and  2  Italian. 
4  C<ild  Lamb. 
8  Cuid  Entres. 
4  C«.lii  Chickens. 
4  Dressed  Lobster. 
2  Veal  Cakes  ornamented. 
2  Hare  Cakes,  ditto. 
8  Legume6,4Peas,4  French  Beans.  I 
4  A«pcc  Jellies  ornamented. 
Fruit &Prc<erves'dovvn  the  Middle. 


341 


SIX  TABLES  FOR  FIFTY 
PERSONS  AT  EACH  TABLE. 


Thirty-nine  Dishes  of  a  Side. 


4  Soups, 

4  Hot    Roasts,  to    remove  the 

Soups. 
t  Caroroel  Baskets. 

5  Gam  Paste  Baskets. 
2  Sovoy  Cakes. 

2  Chantijiy  Cakes. 

3  Jellies  an  Marbre. 

S  Orange  Jtliy  au  Marbre. 

4  Creams— 2  Raspberrjf  and   ft 

Cederata. 
2  of  Cold  Lamb. 
2  of  Cold  Chickens. 
2  Cold  Pics. 
4  Cold  Pieces. 
2  Italian  Sallads* 
2  Cold  Enlr^s. 
2  Galentincs. 
4  Legumes. 
Fruit  and   Preserves  down  the 

Middle. 


ONE  TABLE  FOR  SEVENTY 
PERSONS. 


Forty.five  Dishes  of  a  Side. 


ta    remove  the 


12  Soup^. 

12  Hot  Roasts, 

Soups. 
4  Cold  Pies. 
6  Cold  Pieces. 
4  uf  Cold  Chicken. 
4  of  Cold  Lamb. 
4  Meat  Cakes;    2  Veal  and  2 

Hare. 
4  of  Gaientines. 
4  Cold  Entr^s,  ornamented. 
4  Aspic  Jellies. 
4  Dressed  JiObsters. 
4  Sallads;  2  Dutchi  and  2  ItaL 
10  Legumes. 

4  Jellies ;  2  Clear,  and  2  Orange. 
4  Cream ;    2  Raspberrj*  and  2 

Cederata. 
4  Gum  Paste  Baskets. 
4  Wax  Baskets. 
ilk. 
CbI 
Fruit  and   Preserves  down  the 
Middle. 


4  Chanlilh 

4  Savoj*  Oakes. 


x 


«3 


342 


AUGUST  20.    No.  234.    BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 

SECOND  COURSE. 
Nineteen  Dishes  of  a  Side. 

Seventeen  Dishes  of  a  Side. 

y  riireciisof  Tiinie. 

i!  Turcrns  of  Soup  a  la  Reine. 

2  Ttir  erns  of  dear  S(iup. 

Sh  Tloasts. 
2  of  Turkey  Poults. 
2  of  Ruffs  and  Reevet. 
t  of  Leverets. 
1  of  Grouse. 

6a  luirwvcs  tor  the  Soups, 
4  StM  Fish. 
2  Frosh- water  Fish. 

6/x  liem^vesjnrthe  Fish, 
Hannch  of  Venison,?  Top  and 
RihsofBecf,               J   Bottom. 
F.lieiof  Veal  a  la  Daobe. 
Ili.m  braisfd,  blazed,  and  Beans. 
Chioe  of  Mniton. 
Nerk  fif  Venison. 

2  Baskets  of  Past  rv. 

•0 

•2  Wax  Baskets  with  swell  Fuh. 
2  S>iToy  Cakes. 
2  Chantiilies. 

2  U.sl>cs  oi   Chckt  11  a  in  Heme, 

«'il^T^r^lson. 
Breast  of  Veal  a  la  Ualierne. 
Neck  of  Mutton  ami  a  Pur6e  of 

Turnips. 

2  Peas,  1  plain  boiled  1  st«?ived. 

2  Artichoke  Bottoms  in   brown 
Sauce. 

2  French  Beans 

2  Caul. flower  and  Sance. 

1 

FQur  Lurdingi. 

1  T<amb'h  Sweetbreads  and  Sorrel 
Sunco, 

1  Grenadines  and  Frencli  Beans. 
I  Pigeons  iarded  and  Asparagus 
Peas. 

1  Bwt-kslwrdwl.p^Hzed.&OlirfiB. 

X  Kaiseci  l^it  s. 
1  Grenade. 
1  Churtreuse. 

1 

2  Clear  Jellies.                                1 

•^  Uw.its  o»    Lamo   Uuileis  and 

Cucnmbers. 
?  Di«fo  of  Risf.los. 

2  Orange  Jellies. 

2  of  Raspberry  Crenm. 

if  Dishes  «.[  Teuderonts  ol   V  eal 
and  Pen.s, 

2  Diito  otSiuiies  of  Mutton  and 

CncMimher. 

2  of  Cederata  Cream.                     i 

1 

2  .\pricot  Tourtes. 
2  Codling  Tour tes. 

• 

?  Vcleientsof  Fi.sh. 

Flanks, 
2  Cold  Pieces. 

^  ])islit:&  ot  .Soulies  ol  iivii?. 
2  Dmo  of  FiiJets  of  Turbot. 

Flanks. 
Haunch  of  Lamb   larded,   and 

Chevrei.'il  Sauce. 
T^in  of  V**  1  H  !a  Besbemrll. 

2  Rago{i;s.                                     | 
.  2  Mu^hn  OTif. 

343 
AUGUST  51.    No.  QS5.    BILL  OF  FARE, 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Soup  Santey 
Removed  wirh  FISH,  removed 

with 

A  Haunch  of  Venison. 


Tenderunes  of 

Lamb 
and  Mushrcoms. 


Grenadines  and 
Sorrel  Sttuce. 


Two  Ducks 

boned,  forced, 

braised^  and 

Tarnips. 


Sinull 
Mm  Con  Fiea. 


Siioulderot  Lanil. 

litrded,  ^liizt'd,  & 

French  li«*iUiH. 


Breast  of  Veal 

braided,  aud 

PL'as. 


Ham 

hrai>ed, 

^Iazt:d,  aud 

Beans. 


««*»*»««»»«*»x 


* 


Frame, 


4 


s — -  S 


Brisket  of 
Beef 
TremMmQi', 

and  Roots. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Three  Grouse. 


Jellj  ail  IMarbre. 


French  Beans, 
in  Sance. 


0:nei  i  Souflae. 


Apricot  Tourte. 


A  Trifle. 


Peas  Stewed* 


Ham  and  Ta^t 


A  Cheesecake 
ti)€  same  Size. 


'  Chine  of  L^rab 

and  Cucumber 

Saore. 


Fricandeau 

giazrd,  and  an 

Eniince. 


Petit  Vkxiu 


Tfiree  Chickens 
i  la  Keinc. 


SweeAl)r4».>dji 
larded,  glaz(^d,£k 
Sorrel  Sauce.    ' 


BeefCollops. 


Turtle^ 

Removed  with  FISH, 
Removed  wiih 

A  Loin  of  Veal. 


|fraiQe.  J 


RiiITh  nnd 
Reeves." 


Orange  Tourte. 


RagdOt 

Meile. 


Peas,  plain. 


Cf'derata 
Crearo. 


Codling  Tourte. 


Mushrooms 
brolec/. 


French  Beans, 
pimti. 


Orange  Jelly. 


A  Leveret^  larded. 


344 


AUGUST  22.    No.  2S6.     BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Soup  a  la  Reinej 

R,en)o?ed  with  FISH, 
Removed  with 

A  Leg  of  Lamb  boiled^ 
Loin  friedy  and  Spinach. 


Cutlets  of 
Tongue  aitd 
Barberries, 


Two    Chickens 
a  la  Reine. 


Queneb 

with 

Italian  Sauce. 


Veuisoa 

St(>aks. 


A  Raised 

Pie  of 

Venison. 


I  Frame.  | 


A  Raised 

Pie  of 

Maccaroni. 


Two  Necks  of' 

l^mh  lafded. 

a  In  Clieveaux 

dr  Frize,  and 

Cucuml^er. 


Bianquet  of 
Fowl  and 
Cucumber. 


Ham 
and  Beans. 


Seroels  and 
Sauce  Piquant. 


Soup  J  alien  y 
Rtrninvcd  with 

Removed  with 

Boast  Beef. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Four  Ruffs  and  Reeves, 


Pastry. 


French  Beans. 


Rice  Fritters. 


Pastry. 


Mash 


rooms. 


Darioles. 


Qaails. 


!  Frame.  ? 
1  <••*•••••.•>  I 


A  Lereret. 


Darioles. 


Mushrooms. 


Pa^tr\. 


Apple  Frillers 


Stewed  Peas 


Paj»trf. 


Tico  Turkey  PouUs, 

one  iarded. 


345 

No.  Q35,  VENISON  STEAKS,  PLAIN  BROILED. 

Cut  the  chops  from  the  fat  end  of  the  neck  ;  trim  them 
the  same  as  mutton  chops,  except  cutting  away  the  fat; 
as  that  is  reckoned  ihe  most  favoarite  part ;  do  not  put 
them  on  the  gridiron  until  other  parts  of  the  dinner  is 
dished  up  ;  season  them  with  w  hite  pepper  and  salt ;  have 
the  dish  very  hot;  keep  some  back  to  send  up  a  second- 
time  ;  put  no  gravy  in  the  dish. 

AUGUST  23.     No.  237.    BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Vermicelli  Sottpj 

Removed  wiih 

A  Loin  of  FeaL 


Fricassee  of 
Chicken  and 
Mushrooms. 


Brrast  of  Lamb 

prrlled,   «iid 
Piquant  Saucf. 


Neck  of 
Venison. 


Beef  Coiiops. 


VVIiite  Collops 
and  Cocninber. 


Removed  wiih 

ji  Chine  of  Mutton, 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Four  Pigeons, 


French  Beans. 


Cauliflower. 


Maccaroni. 


Peas. 


Tzeo  Rabbits, 


■■I  ■  M  > 


0  4 


346 


AUGUST  £4.     No.  238.     BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 


<    Green  P^a  Soup, 

U<*niovc»(l  witli 

Slezccd  Brisket  of  Beef 

STirl  Roof*!, 


Frica'<*'tc  of 
Rctbbil. 


^  F.Hrt  of 
Veal. 


Ptiit  Pfeii^i. 


Two 

Grouse 
braiiitd, 
a«jdjCab 
bose. 


T'endt-ronr*  ot 

Lnnib  and 
A«parag08  Pras 


SECOND  COURSE. 


A  Leveret. 

]ardcd« 


Fondues  in 
Cases. 


Peas  stewed. 


Ciiiranl  * 
Tart.     , 


Fiah^ 

Removed  with 
i      A  ff^t^imh  of  reni-on> 


I 

1 


Artichokes. 


Picket!  Crab.    I 


Ribs  of  Lamb, 


AUGUST  ^5.     No.  2:38      BILL  KW  FARE. 


liRsr  couRsi:, 

■fc^  - ^  ■■-■  ■  ■■- ■ 

So  lip  Sa?i/e^ 

Ueiiiotved  nith 

A  Nccic  (f  Venhon* 


IViut*  roiH**  ol 
\'eal  hhH  StXMvfO 


Lmwb  C'ltlets 
and  Cucumber 
Sajice-   . 


;     i\iiitt'<n      1  -.        >-ii  •  I 
I  a  Pnr^e  ot  . 


ia  Rciii-e. 


ITam 

brni<5cH. 

;.'l;'ze"d, 

&BpHn«'. 


Petit  Pute*'. 


Cutleiswl  v^.'tl- 
luon  &  Capers. 


2 


Rminvcd  will) 

A  Sirhin  of   Hecf. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


fhree  Grauc^. 


POHS 

■ 

spinach  in  Boxf 

" 

Tartlets. 

Jelly. 

Cheese 
cakes. 

Mus'irooms 
in  Boxes, 


Freiuh  Beans. 


Tico  liiibbiis. 


347 


AUGUST  26.    No.  239.    BILL  OF  FARE. 


Filter  COURSE. 


■    y 


Soup  a  la  Fiamondy 

Removed  wilh 

A  Fillet  of  Veal 


Two  Swecl  bread- 
iarded^  pluzed, 
iSc  S  >rrcl  Saucf . 


Hushed  Venison. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


TvDo  Ckickens. 


liaised  Pie. 


Sfliiitie  of 
Grous'. 


Two  Breasts  of 

Fowl  larded, 

glazed,  and  an 

Kini   cp. 


Anichoke  Bol- 
loms  (ried. 


Cauliflower 
a!<i  Flani-iiO!id. 


Ralifie  Pudding, 


■RrTnored  with 

J  Chine  of  Mutton. 


French  Beans 
u  la  Cieiue. 


Maccaroni. 


Duck. 


AUGUST  27.     No.  240*     BILL  OF  FARE. 


l^Jlii\3   CUUKSti. 


Soup  JuUettif 

R«' moved  wilh 

J  Neck  of  Venison. 


Brf'f  r.daVes" 
rfdlfff,  einfAl, 
HTid  a  Raccfit. 


Pelit  P^les. 


Fillet  ofVeu!. 


SECOxVD  COURSE. 


Txco  Grouse. 


Past 


ry 


-»■*»»—■  H  I 


Peas  steued. 


J3Uaul£a»~. 


R(Miioved  with 

'  Roast  Ihef.x 


..B railed  Fowl 
an^Musliruoms. 


r 


-V- 


Orange  Jelly. 


Ffeneh  Beans. 


Spanisit  Fritters. 


Leveret, 


.-i  - 


34S 


AUGUST  28;    No.  241.    BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSJi, 
Soup  Sante^ 

Removed  with 

A  Neck  of  Venison. 

SECOND  COURSE. 

TzDo  Grouse. 

Blanquet  of 

Fowl  arxd 

Cucumber. 

Pigeon  Pic. 

Ragodt  Me]  16. 

Peas. 

1 

Tongue 

gbzed,  and 

Turnips. 

Chautilly. 

Petit  P^'c*. 

P«rkCii«lc!H& 
Hushed  Potatoes 

Prench  Beans. 

Ham  and  Eggs. 

Fish, 

Removed  with 
J  FilUt  of  real. 

BJbs  of  Lamb. 

• 

AUGC^T  Qi).    No.  242.     BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Renin vfd  with 

j4  IJaunck  of  Vpntson, 


Scorch  Coliops. 


Lamb  Cutlets 

and  Cucuiuber 

iSauce. 


Fdleis  oi 

Sole 

a  la 
falienne. 


Pip's  Cljopper 
glazed,  and 
Beans. 


Two 

Chickens 
llaReine. 


Petit  P^6s. 


Matelot  of 
Rabbit. 


Fishj 

Removed  with 

Roiisi   Beef 


SECOND  COURSE. 


A  Turkey. 


Stewed  Peas. 


Fondues  in 
Cases. 


Orange 
Jell^. 


Apricot  Tart. 


C^dcratn 
Cream. 


Mosbrooms 
in  Boxes. 


French  Beans. 


Leveret  larded. 


349 


AUGUST  30.    No.  24d.     BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE, 


Green  Pea  Soup^ 

Removed  with 

A  Fillet  of  Veal. 


Fillets  of 
Whiting. 

Civet  of 
L«veret. 

Raised  Pie 
a  la  Fran^oite. 

> 

Harriett  of 
Venison. 

Blanqaet  of  Fowl 
and  Cucumber. 

Removed  with 

A  Chine  of  Mutton* 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Pigeons* 


Caulifiower  and 
White  Sance. 


Stewed  Peas. 


Cheese- 
cakes. 


Jelly. 


Currant 
Tart. 


Artichoke  Bot- 
toms in  Sauce. 


An  Omelet. 
Souffle. 


Two  Chickens^ 
one  larded. 


AUGUST  31.     No.  244.    BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Maccaroni  Soupy 

Removed  wiih 
A  Neck  of  Venison. 


Small  Mutton 
Pies. 


Lamb*8  Sweet- 
bread larded, 
and  Asparagus 
Peas. 


Small 
Rump  of 
Beefala 
.ManMia. 


Tongue  ginzed, 
and  Turnips. 


Fillet  of 
Veal. 


Fillets  of  Fowl 
larded,  and 
Mashrooms. 


Petit  P^i^s. 


Fmh, 

Removed  with  a 

Haunch  of  Lamb^ 
larded^  &;c. 


SECOND  COURSE. 
Three  Grouse* 


Lobster 
au  Gratin. 


Pfcas. 


Orange 

Jelly. 


Savoy  Cake. 


Ccderata 
Cream, 


French  Beans. 


u, 


accaroni. 


Two  Rabbits* 


350 


SEPTEMBER  4.    No.  245.    BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Soup  JuUen, 

Removed  with 

A  Ham  braised,  glazed. 


und  Benns. 


Scorch  Coflops. 


Risoles. 


1  MO 

Swect- 
brcnds  a 
la  Ucine 


Raised  Pie 
with  Mutt  ton 
&  Putatocs. 


1  WU 

(Tliifkens 

■  '^^  '^ 
Hrinc. 


Lanil)  Cutlets 
and  Cticunibcr 

S«UCf. 


Fish, 

Removed  wth 
A  Chine  of  MuHon. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Pigeons. 


Mu<*h rooms  in 
Boxes, 

Peas  slewed. 

Pastry. 

Ratifie 
Pudding. 

Pdftry. 

Artichoke  But* 
touts  in  Sauce. 


Spinach  m    -' 


Guinea  FozcL 


SEPTEMBERS.    No.  246.    BILL  OF  FARE. 


FlUST  COURSE. 


Turtle^ 

Rcninved  wiih  FISH, 
Rriiioved  wit  i 

//  Haunch  of  Venison. 


Ante 
Goudeveau. 


i 


F  Met?  of  Fowl 

iHtded,  thi/cH, 

*nil  Mushruonis 


■I 


:  V  Ilani  braised, 
g'azod,  and 


A  Timball  of 

Marcareni  and 

Chicken. 


Swe<  ihrear's 
iarded.  ghized, 
and  S  'ml 
Sauce. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Fojtr  Variridgesm 


Galeaa 
Aldltfletir. 


Ficijch  Bcan«. 


Three 

Clii<  Kens 

a  laReiiip. 


S'Mip 

S:m^, 

i"niiov«'<l 

vith  Kksl'. 

reji:Ave  • 

with  a 

r«i?c»d 

P»e  oJ 

W'niscn. 


irrume.i 


Soup  a  la 
Heine, 

removed. 

vith  Fisli, 

removed 
with  a 

r.iised  Ph 
a  la 

('>anpois^ 


Wfk  ol"  Vfal 

and  Wliite 
Italian  Situce. 


Four  Pijieoiis 

litrdcd,   aiid 

Pcrfs  stewed. 


A  Cliartreuse. 


RMn>|)  of  Beef 
a  la  Maiituu. 


Gren«<|ii)es  of 

Duck  and 

'riirnip«i. 


Peiil  ra;6s. 


Turile* 

HHRifHred  Willi  FlSII, 
Removed  with 

Kvat   Veef. 


RagoAl  Meili. 


Jelly  au  Mjrbre. 


Saroy  Cake,    i 


C  luliflower. 


Morell* 


Ra«plierry 

Cream. 


Two 
Rabbits. 


J  Frame.} 


S 


Shoulder 
of  Lamb. 


Orange  SouiQe. 


Ailicliokc 

•Bottoms  in 

Sauce. 


Eggs  a  ta  Trip. 


Chaulin^Cake. 


Aspic  JeMy. 


Musi:  rooms. 


Stewed  Peas. 


Basket  of  Faslr\ 


A  lArceret^ 

lardeti. 


S5i 

No.  246.    GRENADINES  OF  DUCK. 

Cut  the  wings  from  a  duck,  quite  close  to  the  breast- 
bone, 80  as  to  have  all  the  breast  to  the  wings ;  flat  them 
gently  with  the  flatter ;  then  take  the  skin  ofl^^  and  lard  it 
very  close ;  take  the  bones  from  the  leg,  and  fill  the  1^ 
with  force-meat;  put  the  bones  of  the  duck,  and  any 
oth^r  trimmings  of  poultry,  in  a  stew-pan^  twa  or  three 
onions^,  a  faggot  of  sweet  herbs^  a  few  blades  of  mace^  a 
few  bay  leaves,  and  two  or  three  bits  of  carrot ;  put  a  pint 
of  stock ;  then  put  fat  bacon  over  the  duck's  bones,  aad 
put  in  the  wings  and  legs  of  the  duck,  and  cover  them 
with  fat  bacon,  and  white  paper  over  that ;  set  the  stew- 
pan  on  the  stove,  to  simmer  gently  until  done;  then 
iinibh,  as  all  other  lardings ;  put  the  turnips  on  the  dish, 
and  then  the  duck  ;  garnish  with  paste  or  croutons. 

SEPTEiMBER  3.    N6.  247.    BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 

Soup  a  la  Flamond^ 

KemoTed  with 
A  Neck  of  Venison* 


Fricassee  of 
Chicken. 


Ox  Rumps  and 
Hnrricot  Kouts. 


Pigeon  Pie. 


A  Civet  of 
Leveret. 


White  Cullops 
and  Cucumber. 


Fishy 

Removed  wjih 

Kibs  of  Beef 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Three  Partridges. 


Stewed  Peas. 

Fondues  tu 
Cusei. 

. 

Apple  Pie. 

• 

MnshrooRis. 

Spifiach  and 
Crouioiis. 

Two  Rabbits* 


353 


SEPTEMBER  4.    No.  24^.     BILL  OF  FARE. 


FlttST  COURSE. 


Green  Pea  Soupj 

Reraoted  mth 

A  Ham  braised^  glazed^ 
and  Spinach, 


Saiiai«  of 
Parlridgef. 


.  SroaH 
Mutton  pies. 


Two  Chickens 
a  la  Reine. 


Lamb  Cutlets 
and  Cucumber. 


Matelot  of 
Kdbbit. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Pigeons, 


Peas. 


Kagoiit  Mell6. 


Fish, 

KemoTed  villi 

ji  Chine  of  Mutton. 


An  Omelet 
Soaifie. 


French  Beans. 


J  Shoulder  of  Lamb. 


SEPTEMBER  5.    No.  249.    BILL  OF  FARE. 


•mMm 


FIRST  COURSE* 


Rice  Soupj 

R« moved  with 

ji  Haunch  of  Venison. 


Muiton  Cutlets 

and 
Sanee  Piquant. 


A  Fowl 
aiaBeshemell. 


Fillet  of  Veal. 


Two  Partridges 

iitewed  and 

Cabbage. 


Petit  Pk\6t 


FiSk^ 
Removed  with 

Roast  Beef. 


SECOND   COURSE. 

- 

Tzco  Chichensy 

one  larded. 


Codling  Pie. 


Artichokes. 


A  Trifle. 


French  Beam. 


Currant  Tart. 


A  Leveret, 


354 

_§EPTEMBER  6.    No.  QSO.    BILL  OF  FARE. 
FIRST  COURSE- 


Soup  Sanicy 

Removed  with 

Stewed  Beef  and  Tomata 
Sauce, 


Fricassee  of 

Chicken 
and  JVIushrooms. 

Hashed 

Veujsou, 

A  Raised  Pie 
with  Becf^U'aks. 

" 

Breast  of  Lamb 

grilled,  with 
'Juc  umber  Sauce. 

Blaiiqaet  <>f 
Veal. 

SECOND  COURSE. 


Partridges^, 


Spinach 
in  Boxes. 


Fish^ 

lletuovcd  with 

A  Chine  of  Mutfon . 


Esc  a  (oped 
Ousters. 


Darioles. 


Damson 
Pie, 


Lohster  a  a 
Gratin, 


Fondoes 
in  CaseSi 


Guinea  Fozslj  larded. 


SEPTEMBER  7.     No.2iL     PILL  OF  FARE. 


FlUST  COURSE. 


Soup  a  la  ReinCj 

Removed  with 

Leg  of  Lamb  boiled^  Loin 
fried^  and  Spinach. 


PitfeoMS 
ii  laCrepaudine, 

and 
Saiice  Piqnant. 


Venteon  Steaks. 


A  Ham 

brnised, 

glazed, 

and  Greens. 


'1  hree 
Partridge.*' 

and 
Cabboge. 


Harricot  of 
Beef. 


Petit  Pit^B. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


A  Capon; 


\ 


Fia/i, 
Removed  with 

Fillet  of  Veal. 


Dressed 

Lobster. 


French  Beans. 


Spanish 
Fritters. 


Canliflower 
a  la  Flamond. 


Picked  Crab. 


Ttco  Ducks. 


".— '."^«^^i"*«" 


353 


SEPTEMBER  8-     No.  252.    BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 


So.'/p  SantCy 

Reiiiorcfl   *rh 

A  Neefc.of  Veni80iu 


Blaiiqiiet  oIFoa) 
and  CocHmSer. 

Civelof 
Leveret. 

C'une  of  Innih. 

Bout  Saigueaux 

and 
Sauce  Hacliis. 

Cmli'tsof  Sweei 
brends,  with  fin- 
Herbs,  &c. 

A  Sirloin  of  Beef* 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Three  Partridges. 


Articluike 
Bottoms. 

French  Beans. 

* 

Apple 
T^rt. 

Jilly 

• 

OileHii 
Plum  Tart 

CuuliAower 
and  Suucc. 

H 

Stew  I'd 
0^>sier». 

Tiso  liahbits. 


SEPTEMBER  9.     No.  25J.    BILL  OF  FARE. 


FJUST   COURSE. 


Vermicelli  Soup^ 

Removed  with 

Loin  of  Feed  «  la  Beshemell 


rwoStvreil»rpaft- 

lardrd,  and 

S<«rr«'1  S  juce. 


Two  Pa-^rid«Ie^ 
and  -Cahba»e. 


Neck  (»l 
Vi  n-snn. 


0\  Rnmps  and 
[lurricot  Roots. 


Two  Breasts  o> 
Fowl  larded,  ant 
on  E'oinre. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Pigeons, 


Spinach  and 
Cioiiion*. 


Mficcaronr, 


Damson  Pie. 


Fish^ 

Removed  willi 
A  Chine  of  Mufto:u 


Poultry  Livers, 
in  Cases. 


Caalifl<»\ver 
a  U  Cre:ue. 


Turkey  larded. 


356 
SEPTEMBER  10.    No.  254.    BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE, 


Soup  Sante, 

Removed  with' 
A  Haunch  qf  Venison, 


Scorch 
CoiJops. 


Beef,  Olires, 

and  ^collopped 

Potatoes. 


Leg  of 

Lamb 

roasted. 


Tongne  glazed 
and  Greens. 


Fillet  of 
Veal. 


Compote  of 
Pigeons. 


Poulet  8  la 
Duchesse. 


Fishj 

KcBioved  with 

Ribs  of  Beef. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Three  Partridges. 


French  Beans. 


RagoOt  Mell& 


Jelly  au 
Maubre. 


Savoj  Cake. 


Rbtsnith 
Cream. 


Truffles  in  a 
Napkin. 


Cauliflower. 


Guinea  Fowl  larded. 


SEPTEMBER  11.    No.  255.    BILL  OF  FARli. 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Soup  Cressy^ 

Removed  with 

A  Neck  of  Venison, 


Pork  Cutlets  and 
Rober  Sauce. 

Petit  Vkxku 

BeefTremblanc 
and  Harricot 
Roots. 

Small    Mutton 
Pies. 

SHlmie  of 
Partridge. 

FISH, 

Removed  with 

A  Loin  of  Veal, 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Grouse, 


Crayfish. 


Artichoke 
Botton^s  k%\ 

Saiic--. 


Apple  Pie. 


Stewed  Cellery. 


Ancliovy  Toast. 


Shoulder  of  Lamb, 


357 

SEPTEMBER  le.    No.  256.    BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Soup  Julien^ 

Removed  wiih 

A  Haunch  of  Lamb  larded^ 

and  Piquant  Sauce. 


Risoles. 


Hashed  Venison. 


Two 
Chickens 

a  la 
Reine. 


Small  Ham 

glazed  ami 

Greens. 


Two 

Sweetbreads 
a  la  Reine. 


Harricot  of 
Mattun. 


Calvt's  Feet  au 

Gratin,  and 
Spanish  Sauce. 


Fish^ 

Removed  with 

Roast  Beef. 


SECOiND  COURSE. 


Partridges* 


French  Beans. 


Trnffles,  in  a 
Napkin. 


Small 
Pastry. 


Chantilly 
Cake. 


Currant 
Tart. 


Lobfiter  cold. 


Cauliflower  and 
White  Sauce. 


Two  Flappers. 


FLAPPERS 

Are  young  wild  ducks;  roast  them  about  fifteen  minutes. 

SEPTEMBER  IS.    No.  257.    BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Flemish  Soupj 

Removed  with 

jl  Leg  of  Pork  roasted. 


Grenadines  and 
.Sorrel  Sauce. 


Lamb  Cutlets 

and  Cucumber 

Sauce. 


N' 


eck  of  Venison. 


Crockets. 


Beef  Olives  and 
scooped 
potatoes. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Pigeons. 


French  Beans. 


Pastrjr. 


Fishy 

Removed  with 

^  Chine  of  Mutton. 


Jelly. 


Pastry, 


Articoke 
Butttoms. 


Hare. 


338 


SEPTEMBER  14.    No.  258.    BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Soup  fl  la  Reine^ 

Removed  with 

A  Loin  of  Veal. 


Hashed  Venison. 


Frtcassee  of 
Chicken. 


rwoRabhiis 
a  iu  Oportu 
larded,  and 

French 

Be.ms. 


Neck  of 

Pork 
rousted. 


Calf's  Head 

hashed  and 

grilled. 


Son  ties  of 
Sweetbread. 


Saimic  of 
Partridge. 


Fishy 

Removed  with 

A  Chine  of  Mutton. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Pigeons, 


Spinach  and 
Egg!*  puHched. 


Oysters  iu 
Boxr*. 


JMufchrooius  iu 
Boxes, 


Cauliflower. 


Shoulder  of  Lamb* 


SEPTEMBER  15.    No.  259.     BILL  OF  FARE 


FIRST  COURSE. 

Soup  SantSj 

Removed  with 

A  Haunch  of  Venison. 

I 

SECOND  COURSE.     ; 

1 

Two  Flappers. 

Stewed 

Partridge  and 

Cabbage. 

Lamb  Cutlets 
and  Pufuant 
Sauce. "~ 

Articlioke 

Bottoms  fried  in 

Batter. 

r                            1 

CauliaofieraU' 

Flamoiid. 

■I 

Tongue 

A  Sucking 
Pig. 

Fillet  of 
Veal. 

1 

glazedj  and 
Turnipi. 

Ir^     J-"y 

SmaU     . 
Pastij. 

.....                                 1 

1%          »*M.       T*\*      » 

A  Duck  a  la 

D'lube,  and 

Turnips. 

Petit  Pates. 

Kggs  a  la  Trip. 

Muccaroui. 

Re 
A  Sir 

Fv 

mov 
loin 

.A, 

ed  with 

of  Be 

ef. 

Guinea  Fo 

zr/, 

larded. 

3;59 


SEPTEMBER  16.    No.  260.    BILL  OF  FARE, 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Rice  Soup, 

Removed  witli 

A  Neck  of  Venison, 


Fricassee  of 

Hat»bit  and 

Onions. 


Grenadines  and 
Sorrel  Suuce. 


Fillets  of 
Sole  a  la 
italtenne. 


AHan)  braised, 

glazed,  and 

Spinach. 


Two 
Chickens 
aUReine 


Three  Pigeons 
larded,  glased, 
&  Sauce  Koyal. 


Tend e rones  of 

Lanib  and 

Mushrooms. 


Fish, 

Removed  with 

A  Fillet  of  Veal. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Three  Partridges. 


French  Beans. 


Prawns. 


Pastry. 


Rlienish 
Cream. 


Rice 

Fritters, 


Dried  Salmon 
in  a  Case. 


Mushrooms. 


A  Hare, 


SEPTEMBER  17.     No.  261.     BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSK. 


Soup  Juliefiy 

Removed  with 

/t  Leg  of  Fork  a  la  Uoiseau. 


Teoderones  of 
Veal  and  Peas. 

Hashed 

Venison. 

Raised  Pie 
a  la  Franfuise. 

Civet  of  Hare. 

Harricot  of 
Mutton. 

Fish, 

Removed  with 

Rids  of  Beef  rolled. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


T\oo  Flappers. 


Omelet  Souffle. 


Peas. 


Jcllj. 


Apple  Pie. 


Cederata 
Cream. 


French  Beans. 


Escaloped 
Ousters, 


Pigeons, 


360 
SEPTEMBER  18.    No.  263.    BILL  OP  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Turtle^ 

Removed  with 

A  Haunch  of  Verdsan. 


Two  Sweetbreads 

larded*  glased, 

and  an  Eraince. 


Matelot  of 
Seis. 


Tongue 
glased, 

and 
Greens. 


Stewed  Beef 
and  Roots. 


Two 

Chickens 

a  la 

Reine. 


Tenderones  of 
Lamb  and  Peas. 


Grenadines  of 

Duck  and 
Toraata  Sauce. 


Fish^ 

Remored  with  a 

Chine  of  Mutton* 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Three  Partridges* 


Spinach  in 
Boxes. 


Broiled 
Mushrooms. 


Pastry, 


Jelly. 


Pastry. 


Maccaroni* 


Oysters  ia 
Boxes. 


Hare. 


SEPTEMBER  19.    No.  Q&5.  BILL  OF  FARE. 


Mpck  Turtlcy 

'  Removed  with 

A  "Neck  of  Fenison, 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Pork  Chops  and 
mashedPotatoes. 


A  raised  Fie 
wifh  MuHoR 
and  Potatoes, 


( 


Neck  of  Veal, 
a  la  Besbemell. 


Petit  P&t^ 


Salmie  of 
Partridges. 


'Wish^ 

Removed  with 
Ribs  of  Beef  J  rolled. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Two  Flappers. 


Cauliflower 
and  White  Sauce. 


Ragout  McJJe. 


Hhenish 
Crc-ain. 


Cbantilly 
Cnl^e. 


Ormigc 
Jellv. 


Dressed  Lobster. 


French    Beans 
in  Saucf. 


B4bs  of  Lamb, 


361 


FIRST  COURSE. 

ReraoveTTwitti 

jiHaunckQf  Venison* 


Lamb  Catlets 
BiitT  'v>ucninbvi 
Sauce. 


**'     <i 


Poulet 
&  la  Ditehetse- 
and  Mushrooms. 


Beef  &      Raised  Pie. 
Roota^.. 


Pork 


Vetil  Olives  and 
Ravijgot  Sauce. 

..    '  r 


SEfcei^D'  COURSt. 


T%rfie  PdrMdge^. 


'm  dt  L 


^^^raltojdd 
Dusters.  * 


>  ■  I  I  fc  <    \  i  1^  i  a,   ,  ^^ 


i  PrmeTT.  -  -  -A,P?^  P'«^  ■ 
:  e^r,^rtii-  -^^'^  Custard. 


I.    .    I.    r     ^  f\uii 


Musli- 
room 


•*< 


Risules. 


Fishy  ^  ;_'  *_ 


Removed  with 
ALmn  tf  VeaL 


*■    t  — 


Pi.ked  Grub. 


-u^ 


>i*^«     -  -   f 


^iyrcedaglaz^td, 
Hnd  Sauce  Roj-al. 


♦-r — -^ — ''V'   t — ♦"-   I     ..«  wi, 


Two  J{a6biU..    .1 


SEPTEMBER ai.    No.  865.  ,  BLLt  OP  F^TIE, 


FIRST  CQUaSJE. 

Flemish  Seup^y 

,  .  :.  .^eijio,v«d  \5(ith 

.   '  4  Fillet  of  Teal. 

Fricassee  of 

Kabbit 
Qnd  Onions.. 


■■Mill    I    ^ 


Beef  Sreak 
stewed* 


t 


Tc»ngu»jji»Bed, 
and  S|iinach. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


French  Beans. 


■'■I - 1    ji 


I  f 
— ^ 


.Foj^idVcs  in 
.     Cases. 


vet  of  Hare. 


TT 


-W 


Blanquet  of 

FuaI  and 
Mushrooms. 


Fish^ 

Removed  with 
yl  Chine  of  Mutton. 


^fltrttirsir  -     Rarifir 


CreaiD. 


-hr 


Pudding. 


Lubster 
au  Gratin. 


Stewed  Pcus. 


Guinea  Fos:l  larded. 


\i 


363 


^pPTEijlBER  S«.   No.  a^.    BILl/  OF  FARE. 


'  Tiireen  o/  Ttir//e, 
iltHaoved  wiffa  ViSfT; 
Bemoyed  wJUh. 

4,I{aunchqf  yenison. 


Pprk  .C«tleJaLlIi<i 
Rober  Sauce. 


T-n* 


Fricmndemu 

k,  Sorrel  ^ucc. 


Qnenejf 
&  UaliaoSaiMe* 


>>  k.    ' 


SECONiX  COURSE. 


JFoiftr  PigepnSi 


*r> 


■»     I 


1 


—fifmrbraaed", 
glazed,  and, 
Oreefi». 


Two.  Chickens 
i  la  Reine. 


S*«»f^Jafce. 


lA^aMMiMMafcMIti 


Mushrooms. 


Throe  Partridges 


Ijamb'8>|!c9^ 
and  Asparagus 


Chiire  oMarffib  |  ^Wo  Grouse, 
and  Cucumber 
Sauce. 


'Fillet  of -Beef 

larded,  and 

SpanisKSaMce. 


Cauliflower. 


French 


Two  Uuckt. 


Ceoderones  of 
Veal  and 
Xruffles. 


Tureen  of  Turticy 

Removed  with  FISU» 

Removed  with 
A  Sirloin  of  B^ef. 


Raspberry 
Cieam. 


V  fc   I  * 


Artietioke 

Bottoms^  in 

Sauce. 


Gmreaa 

MelliAe«r. 


HOtth 


'     "M      • 


-»i"*< 


J 


^63 


SEPTEMBER  23.    No.  267.     BILL  OF  FARE. 


Jy'lHST  .COUKSt:. 

Soup  J  alien. 
Reiiiu.ve(l  with 

Leg  of  Lamb  boiled^  Loin 
fried^  and  Spinach. 


Ox  Ramps  and 


Pi«4  Feet  grilled, 

Ears  slireddcd* 

end  Kabii 

Sauce. 


I  Neck  of  Venison. 


I    Semels   and 
Piquant  Sauce. 


Coiupdie  of 
Pigeons. 


Fish^ 
Removed  with 

A  Loin  6f  Veal. 


SECOND  COORSIfi. 
Thr^e  Pwrtridge*. 


Maccvroni* 


Artichoke  Bot-. 

toms  a'nd 
liaiittu  Sauce. 


Chaniillj  Cake. 


French  Beans. 


Mushrooms. 


Two  Rabbits. 


SEFI'EMBER  24.    Na.s6».    BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSIS. 

Vermicelli  Soup^ 

Removed  vvith 
A  Fillet  of  Veal. 


Mateloc  of 
Rabbit. 


Fowl 
a  la  Bekbemell. 


IANrckofKuttou  L--* 
boiled  &  Turnips.  [ 


Salniie  of 
Partridge  in  « 
low  raised  Pie, 


Vepison  3i«dr». 


Fishy  ■ 

Removed  with 

Ribs  of  Beefy 

Rolled^.  .. 


SECOND  COURSE. 
GuineuFowiy  larded. 


Beet  Root  with 
Sharp  Sauce. 


-I 


Cauliflower 
a  ia  Flauiond. 


Apple  Pie 
w  ih  Casturd. 


Ometec  with 
Satice. 


Craj  Fish. 


Shoulder  of  Lamb. 


Ji% 


364 


SEPT]p;MBEp  25.    No.  269*    BILL  OF  FARE^ 


FIRST  COURSE. 


*    Soup  SdntSj 

Removed  with 

A  Leg  of  Pork  roasted. 


Petit  Pjkt^B. 


Tenderonei  of 
Ve»I  and 
AJasb  rooms. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Three  Partridges. 


Raised  Pie. 


Apple  Pie. 


French  Beaiit. 


Breast  of  Venison 
and  Roots. 


Lamb  Cutlets  & 
Sauce  Piquant. 


Craj-<fisb 


Fish, 

Hcmoved  with 


IKcrooved  witii 
A  Ch^  of  Mutton. 


Spinach 
and  Croutons. 


Tvoo  Rabbits, 


SEPTEMBER  26.    No.  270.    BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE 

Soup  a  la  Flamondy 

Removed  with  a 

Leg  of  Lamb  boiled^  Loin 
fried,  and  Spinach, 


SECOND.  COURSE. 


Pigeons, 


White  CoIIops. 


Veal  OKvcs. 


French  Beans 
in  Sauce. 


Ragoiit  Mell^. 


Neck  of  Venison. 


Pork  Cutlets  & 
Rober  Sauce.   , 


Fricaysec  uf 
Chicken. 


Damson 
Pi«. 


Jelly. 


Grape 
Pie. 


Roast  Beef 


Mttccaroni. 


MusliTOonas. 


Tvo  Ducks. 


365 


SEPTEMBERS?.    No.  271.    BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 
Soup  Cresstfy 

Removed  whli 

J  Haunch  of  Venison* 


Capifotade  of 
Dock. 


Leg  of  Lamb 

braised,  eiased, 

and  Cellery. 


Brislietof  Beef 

stewed,  and 

Roots. 


4 


Fillet  of  Pork 

and  Ruber 

Saoce. 


Compdte  of 
Pigeons  and 
Musi  I  rooms. 


Fiih, 

Hemored  with 

A  Fillet  of  Veal 


SECOND  COURSE. 


TvDO  ChickenSy  one  larded. 


French  Beans. 


Fondues 
in  Cases. 


Gateau 
Millefleur. 


Oysters 

Escaloped. 


Mushrooms 
bi  oiled. 


Hare* 


Bd 


SEPTEMBER  28.    No.  272-    BILL  OF  FARE. 


FlilST  CpURSE> 
Flemish  Soup 

Bemored  with  FJSH, 
Removed  with 

A  Haunch  of  Feniion, 


A  imall  raiseil 

Pie,  wiUi  Muttuu 

and  Potatoes. 


rhree  Hidgea  of 
Fowl,  larded, 
.  glazedy«ud 
Mushroom*. 


A  Charlreaae 
of  Roots,  &c. 


Shoulder  of . 
lAirob  larded, 

glased}  and 
Sorrel  Sauce. 


Neck  of  Veal  a 
la  Beihemell. 


Three  Chid  ens 
$,  la  Reiu^. 


Soup,    ^ 

removed 

wilh  Fish, 

removed 

with  a  Ham 

braised^  and 

BUHIS. 


I  Frame.  | 


Soap, 
removed 

with  FisK 

removed 

with  a  Rum) 

of  Beef  a 

la  Mautua. 


A  Torlicy 
boiled,  and 
Celery  Sauce. 


Fillet  of  Beef 

lardedf  gluzedi 

and  Spanish 

Sauce. 


Timball  of 
Maccaroni. 


Neck  of  Pork 
rObsted. 


Sweetbreads 
larded,  and 
an  Emince. 


Volevent,  with 
aSoutiesof  Sole. 

"  Mock  TuRUj 

Removed  with  FISH,  Removed  with 
A  Chine  of  Mutton* 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Four  Partridges, 


A  Savoj^  Cake. 


Mufhroons. 


Currant  Tarl. 


Jelly  au  Marbre, 


Fat  Livers,  in 
a  Case. 


French  Beans. 


Gateav 
Millefleur. 


Lc)bster 
au  Grariy. 


Two 
Flappers. 


4  •«»«•>  .»»V>4 


h 


Fnunc. 


S 


^  Kscaloped 
Oysters. 


Small  Pastry. 


CauliBower  Ula 
Flamoud. 


Rhenish  Cream. 


Fun  docs  in 
Cases. 


Codling  Tart. 


Trofllea,  in  a 
Napkin. 


Savoy  Cake. 


Two  Guinea  Foult^ 
one  larded. 


RIDGES  OF  FOWLS,  LARDED. 
Tbey  are  the  breaits  of  fowls ;  the  wing  is  taken  off  «t  the  Joint, 
tiie  breast  larded,  and  finished  a«  all  other  lardiu|^. 


M9 


SEPTEMMR  29-    Noi^TS.    BILL  OF  FARE. 


•  JP'iftST  COU'ltSE.' 


't 


t  > 


Tureen  of  Ciudw^  Feet  Soufj^ 

ikmoved  with  FISH,  t  ; 
Kem^vefl.with 

A  Haunch  of  Venison* 


Ciapaudine,  and 
S^uce  Piquant. 


'Uniofes. 


A  bcipent  ut 

Mutton  a  la 

J«rdii>i«r« 


forced,  braised* 
and  Turnips. 


SECOND  COl/R^fi.    ; 


■*  t « 


.  1 


jWa  wad  Ducks^  ' 


A  Greinide. 


Partridges  and 


•  Sa<tov».  Cauliatm^r  4  la 


■  SoopCressey 
TeatotvA  trtth 
FUb«  removed 
4ritli  t  Meckt 

of  JLao^bk  la 


-Clicveauxde 

Piize,  landed, 

aua  Cucumber 

BaiKC; 


-.♦♦^1 


fFrai^evI 


'Soap  MIA 
rciuovedVlth 

mih  a  €k>ose. 


! 


A  Capon  a  1« 
Dan  be,  ijnd 
•  Tniffles4     ■ 


■'  *    '■ 


Cray-li^h 
Piiddine. 


;i   ,ii  } 


-Purk  Cttttetf* 
with  fine  Herbs, 
ind  R^ber  Sauct^ 


A  Httise  Mpned, 
rolled,  l&rd^d, 
braised 'iHRbd 
f  Wx»,,friib 

<Mtisbn»oiDa. 

■  II    ■till   t  I  ■ 


*    i     ' 


Wax  Basket  or 
Crawfish*. 


'X'rutti'eb  Jtt  a 
' '  Napkin. 


I    -  ■  ' 


liaUiie 
Puffdinff. 


Cf^ilie.' 


Blane  Mati^V. 


tiuin  .^ayie . 
Basket  6T 
'  me^in^es. 


Mmccftront 


i  J 


I   ■  ^        !>■■■*■*       w/ia   *  il 


(iaieau 
MiMeff«*iir.' 


^reueh  Beans. 


Orali>te  bit  utile. 


I  .Thras 

Partridges. 


^im 


I  * 

4  Frame  J  i    /^  **» 
I  1       Quads. 


Jelljr 
J     an  Marbre. 


ft  iiiiiii 


Crockett. 


Pfcas. 


Paslry. 


■  I  I 


'<,!.      'I  J         II 


Sheeps*  Romps 

bon»d»'  forced, 

and  Kidnies. 


Mock  Turtle 

Removed  with  FISH, 
Removed  with 

ji  Sirloin  of  Beef, 


Rai^i^t 

Meii^ 


Uum  Paste 

Basket  of, 

Merineues. 


Uattpbeiry 
Cream. 


*— E : > 

ralushro<mit. 


I     r 
[til  ■>  ■ 


Chaniilh  Cake. 

,      II     nf  I  >  1 1     II 


•_.! 


i'raliieb  in  «> 

Nepkin. 


JL.!- 


Wax  Basket  of 
PmwDf. 


_J 


Two  Guinea  Fwnli^. 
one  lardfd. 


TT* 


When  raising  the  shouldei;!  from  ^l;ie!iiecl:  .tl}a(  Is,  lyanted 
for  this^use^  leawt-qftor^jpnea^  to  tlie  neclc  (hah  is  lisualljf 
done;  bone  the'  neck, '  ana  beat  it,^vklth  tBe.  beefsteak 
flatter;  tbenrimish  the  insidiWMr^J^^gs;  spririkle  it  over 
with  pep|Ji^(;^f^t^'«nd  spread  foi*ced-tneat  all  over  it; 
roll  it  up  the  long  way,  and  i^ew  it  veJy "tight  with  twioe; 
then  give,  it  .the  shape  of. a  serpent;  'A)\i\in  the  same 
matinet'tlidt  a  $alnioa  is  dime  ^  cut  ihe  red  part  of  a  oar* 
rut^  the  ;»llp[ie'aS  bacon  fdr  laJFding;; '  then  put  the  carrot  in 
with  -tlie  lardiilg-pin ;  do  it  veryTiose  and  strong;  brais^ 
it  th9«ame'as  a  liecV  of  muttoa  latd^d ;  and  iini^li  it  in 
the  samEmanner  as  all  other  larditigs,  except  putting  it  ia 
.the  oVen ;.  put  a  purd^  pf  roots  uodec  it. 

«~   '  A  «ARE,  BaNED  A^n  LARDKD. 


BoneL  a  hare,  and  brusti  ,it  over  ^i'ith  egg;  season  it 
over  with  pepper,  spicCj  chopped  inusfarooms^  parsley^ 
;thyniey  and  shalots.;  then  spread  £irce.  all 'Over  it;  roll  it 
up  very  tight,  an4  |ard  it'Very  close  and  strong  ;  put  the 
bones,'and'«oiHe  lean  ha'm  into  a  stj^w-pan^  and  a  few 
bay-Waves,  onions,' a -faggot,  of  th^me  Kod,  pjrsl^y^  9  few 
blades  of  mac^,  r~pint  of  ^tocl^,  and  half  ai  piut  of  port 
,wine ;  put  fat  bacon  over  th0  ^pi^S|,$;c«>  then  put  iu  the 
har^,  cover  it,  over,  with  fet  baoon,  mnd  white  paper,  cut 
to~ifa:e  size  of  the  ?tew-pan,  over  alt ;  set  the  stew-pan  oa 
a  sl6w  fire,  to  Conner  for  two  .hours;  theivlake  ^-4he 
hare,  and  .finish  it  as  other  lardings-;  stUiin  the  liquor  from 
the  boil^s,  &c. ;.  skim  the  fat  from  it  "very  clean,'  and  inake 
the  sauce  for  the  mushrooms  with  it~;  put^tji^  inushrooou 
on  the  .dish,  aijd  th^en  the  hare;  g•rni^h  ^'ith  paste. 

'it  ■ 


:  ■  i 
1  .^. 


'\    \i4\ 


86d 
SRPTBMBER  SO*    No.  274.  BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 
Rice  Scup^ 

Removed  wiih  f  1SH» 
Reraoved  wHh 

A  HoHnck.  of  Vkniton^ 


SoutJet  of 
Muit^i  and- 
Cucumber. 


Four  Pigeons 
lardrd,  and 
Mushrooms. 


Goose.' 


Pelk  P4t^. 


Fillet  of  Pork 

Inrded,  and 

Ruber  Sauce. 


T- 


J    II        I  ■ 


Two  Chickens 
a^a.Reiue. 


Soap^re> 
oved  witis 
Pi»b,.re» 
oved  M-ith 
a  iliim 
ibe(S  find 
Sre«u«. 


S  Frame.  \ 


9);iip 
reitiovrd 

with  £i»b, 
removed 

«Tith  a  I/ijii 
of  Veal. 


o  Sweet  brcadti 
la.  Rain^y.  and 
irni«hcd  with 
reijch  Deans. 


icAndeao  and 
rird  Sauce. 


Kisoles. 


Leg  of  Lamb 
rousted. 


Two  Rubits  a  la 

Oporto  larded, 

ai^  Asparagus 

Peas. 


Tt-nderonfts  of 
V^cal  and  Truffles. 


Mock  Turtle      * 

Removed  with  FISH, 
'     iierooved  wiiU 

yi, Chine  of  Mufton. 


SECOND  COUIISE. 


Six  Partridges^ 


Jelly 
ao  Marbre. 


Masbrooms, 


Currant  TurC. 


French  Beans 
ill  Sauce,      \ 


A  Savojr 
CHkr. 


Ragodt  Mcli^. 


Apptc  and 
Barberry  Tart. 


Cauliflower. 


I 


Artichoke 
Bottoms  ih 

Sauce. 


DaroffDn  Pie. 


Ragcat  MelI6. 


Snvoy  Ci|^eT 


Stewed  Peas. 


Raspberry  Puff. 


Broiled 

Mushrooms. 


Blanc  Mange. 


ji  Hare. 


R  4 


870 


OCTOBER  1,    No.  275.    BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Soup  a  lit  Reine^ 

Retnoved  with  FISH, 
Removed  with 

4  Haunch  of  Venison^ 


Lamb  Cntlets 
^Sftuce  Piquant 


\  Rump  of  Beef 
k  III  Mantaa. 


A  Sont4«8  of  Sole 
« Ja  Reine. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Partridges^ 


Cederala  Cream 


Neck  of  Vea! 
i  la  Besbemel. 


Raised 
Pie  with 
Pigcoat. 


*  5 

I  FRAME.  } 


Raised 
Pie  with 
VcnisoD. 


Artichoke  Bot- 
toms in  Sauce. 


Pastrjr. 


Oran^  JelW. 


French  Be«M 
ID  Cream. 


Ct^me  da  Caii 


CliineolLamb 
and  Cucainber. 


Soutiesof  Fowl 
and  Truffles. 


Leg  of  PorH 
i  hi  BoisseaH. 


I  FRAMS.    I 


If  111. 


Two 
Rabbin. 


Custard  fnCups. 


i**- 


Cu|l^t«ofSaImpn| 
&  Caper  Saucie. 


S0uji  Cresseyy 

RrmoTedtwitU  FISH| 

Removed  with 
J  Loin  of  Veal. 


Caqhflow«r 
&  laCr^me. 


Jtlly  Matbre. 


Apple  Fie. 


Troili 


Raapbetrj 


Six  Qumh* 


m'^^K^mtm 


STW 


OCVOPBRr..  No.  S7&    BILL  OF  FARK/ 


►  — 


FIRST"  COURSE. 


m^tm^-^^i^ 


Smip  Sant^ 

Removed  with 

A- Neck  of  Venhon. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


>  Qttmkm 


lA  -I 


Beef  Qiivet 
Mid  Boiilof  •• 


Lonrvf  fsnnb 
braisf  d^  gl^kedi 


French  3c>ns. 


■ni  1 


and  Roots. 


Pi^eoM  and 
Aladirooms.- 


€a^]itatfedf  - 
Duck  aod  small 


Remoted  with 

-  -  AFitkt  of  Veat. 


Tdhd^uesln 


ClrantlH^  Cttke. 


I      Eicsloped' 
i        O-j^taf a.- 


>«M 


Mushi'voint. 


I 


WM  Duck. 


OBTOBER  i.    No.  27?.    BILL  OF  FAR^ 


FIRST  eOUKSE. 
Soup  ani  Bouille* 

KeiDoved  with 

A  FiUei  of  Ved 
a  la  Besh€m^U*. 


II      SECOxND  COURSE. 


iVicaodraja , 

glased,  and 
&tfret  Bauce. 


Matiflotof 
Rabbit. 


.   l«|eckbt'Maitdu 
^  braistd,  g^aaed, 

ahd  a  Pur^e  of 

-     Pottritoe»7 


i^reast  of  Veni 
till  ilcweUi  Bud' 
llaricot    Roots. 


.' ..  .  Fowl 
tt  la  Beshemel. 


_         Remofed  with 
A  Chump  of  ffeef. 


Atlets  of  Ousters. 
■  t 


>     I   1 1  ■  1 1 


Four  Pigeom* 


CavliflQwer. 


Gateau 

mille^'eur. 


Artichoke 
^Bottoms 
in  Sauce. 

I»   !■     I  (l  I       II 


Pet  ha,  Bread 

^rumbed,  and 

fried. 


Jlare^ 


?Tt 


OCTOBBR  *.   ^o.  S7&.  'BILL  Ofi  FARb;; 


flRST^PHSfi.  .     I     siicQND  COURSE.     [ 


F/t?r/w  icelTf  Soupy 
^  Loin.of  Veid 


y 


•l  ^    . 


;   '  Salmit?  (if 


Pigeon.Pie.,,. 


JPuriri^ges. 


,    i\,    :     '         I   '■' 


Breast  of  Laiub 
S  ha  lot  $auc€:. 


JFficassee  of 
Cliicjien.  • 


Removed  with 


—    I 


■■«  :i 


Mushrooms 
in  Box4a. 


I'l*. 


A}  Charlotte;' 


Oj«t«i«  in.Bvx^i. 


r 


t.  J 


'Anchor;  XmiT. 


Tzoo  Raff^its. 


I   .Vy   \ 


QC"rUHEH~5,  :ifo.4j9r  BILUOP  FARE. 


FIRST  COUliSK 

_: ■  \   ' 

Soup  JuUen, 

Removed  >Mtii 


.White  Collops 
and-Mvihroomi. 


'   Petit. P^t6|. 


Leg  o^  Lamb 
roasted,  and 
•  French  Beiikis. 


Lamb  Cutlets 

and 

C"cnmber  Sauce. 


Sbuties  of  Sole. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


1. 


Pig€om^» 


0  V  iters  ulBovs 


FtttK-li  Bc«n«. 


T 


R«>mov«d'-wi4H    - 

ji  Fillet  of  Veal. 


Rhenish 
i  Cream. 

i- 


I    » 


— I- 

Ratific"  Savoj 

Puiiding,.^         C«*ke. 


Catiltllotri 


a  la  Fiamon 


'.'|'l»r"f* ^ 

—, <    f  '  '      H -7n 


«    • 


I 


QCTPB^Ite.'  ;Jf9.  280.,  BJH,  OF  FARE.) 


-f^«»"^^»'«- 


FIRST  COURSE. 


-r— r- 


Gitiiei  Soup^ 
Reuiorcd  it- ah 

A  Haunch  of  Lamb  larded^ 
glazed^  6;  Cutumber  ^uce. 

Three  Kidges  of 

ToWllarded, 
and  an  Emince. 


Tenderones  of 
Veit  -ind- 
Truffles. 


( 


Pelit  Pai^ 


PorkCutHt5& 
Robel*  Sapce. 


Foiir  Pigeons    ji. 

tarded,  glazed,     ' 

anid  Mushrootos.  | 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Partridges, 


Mushrooms 
in  Box?9. 


Omelet  SoufSe. 


Ratifie 
Pudding. 


Jelly  aw 
Ma'rbre* 


Pastrj. 


Alacearoni, 


-       Fisky     -' 

Kemoved  with 

Jl  SirSoin  tf  Beef, 


Ojsters  in  Boxes. 


Two  Wild  Ducks, 


'0(3T0BER  7.     No.  2$  I .  ■  FILL 


OF 


FARE. 


:n 


FIRST  COURSE, 

Soup  SanfAj 

IWiu6%'ed  wVifi 

ji  Ham  braised^  glazed^ 

•  -r    -R«d-(»reens. 


A  Civet  of 
Hare. 


Petit  Vkih, 


Three 
hicken^ 

a  U 
leine. 


Goose. 


Leg  of  Lainl' 
bulled.   Loin 
fried,  and 
Spinach. 


SECOND  COUjaSE. 


•\  '•• 


Parfridges, 


; 


Purk  Cutlets 

and  raashed 

Puiatoes. 


Scorch  Cellops. 


FfSd,  tt*rooved  with 

A  Chine  of  Mutton* 


Mushrooms 
broiled. 


S|iinach 
and  Eggs. 


A 

Charlotte 


Dressed  Crab. 


Apricot 
Tartlets. 


Fr«nch   Beans 
and  Sauce. 


Fondues 
in  Cases. 


Ribs  of  Larnb^ 


dT4 


OCTOBER'S.    No.  d89< 


OF  FAREk 


j 


FIRST  COURSJU 


Soup  Cress^f 

Removed  with 

A  HmntHfif^Venison. 


\ I 


SwfCtbreiiilB. 
tsrded,  and 
-   Sorrel  Saace. 


Br«ast  of  Lamb 

grilled,  and 
Piquant  Sauce. 


Fillet  of  Pork^ 
"'  >>ta«d,  and 
Savce  Rabet, 


braited, 

g))i2ed, 

ic  Greens. 


Raised  Pigeon 
Pie. 


Chickens 

a  la 

Rein». 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Thrtt  Ftairidfet, 


Freoch 


;  Wlj^. 


Pastrjr. 


Raapbn^ 
ry  Cream. 


Fillets  of  Rabbit 
larded,  and 
Hushio#ms.  ' 


Masbrooms. 


Removed  with 

A  Loin  of  Veal* 


Artichoke 

Bottoms 

-  in  Saace. 


Two  Duckt^ 


] 


8T« 

OCTOBER  9-    No.  d89.    BILL  OF  FMIS% 


FiRST  COURSE. 
Hemish  Soup^ 

Removed  with  FlSHt 
RemoTed  with 

A  Turkey  and  Trufies, 


Lnnib  Cutlets 

and  Cucumber 

Sauce. 


Cooipdte  of 
Pigeons  and 
Muahrooms* 


Fricandeau 

glacedi  and 

Sorrel  Saoce. 


Ctiilie  of  Lamb 

and 
SMQce  Fiqnant. 


Petit  P&t^s. 


TwoCluckaiu 
a  la  Reine. 


Fillet  of  Beef 

!arde<l,  and 
Spanish  Sauce. 


Ham  braised, 
g||i9ed>  and 

Greens. 


'  Soup» 
removed 
with  Fish, 
removed 

with  a  raised 
P«e«witb 

Maccaroni. 


♦  } 

^Frame«? 


Soap> 
removed 
with  Fish, 
removed 
rith  a  raised 
Pie»  with 
Venisoo. 


■«■ 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Two  Phecuanfs. 


A  Wax  Basket 
of  Prawns. 


Artichoke 
Bottoms  in  Sauce 


Cederata  Cream. 


Musbroams  in  ' 
Boxes. 


A  Chamillj 
Basket, 


■  ■■     iiiii<iwa  — 

Gom  Paitc 
Basket  of  Patlrjr. 


Spinach  and 
Croutons. 


Jellv  aki  Marbre. 


O vsters,  in 
B6&es. 


Gateau 


Six 
Quails. 


fFrame«l 
f  1 


Fitlel  ol  Vral. 


Two  Cnickcos 
a  la  Reine. 


Neckutjyiuuon 

larded,  glazed, 

and  a  Pur^e  of 

Roots. 


A  Uoose. 


StKiuluerot  Lutiikif 
boned,  forcedj 
larded,  glazad, 

and  Sorrel  Sflttce. I  ^ 


.  Savoy  Cake. 


Oysters,  in  * 
Boxes. 


Orange  Jelly 
au  M arbrt;. 


Petit  Pat 6s. 


I'hrec  FartridgtsH    Spinach  and 
and  Savoy.     H       CroiOoos. 


Seiiiels  and 
Sauce  Piquant. 


"  Hemoved  with  FISH, 
Removed  with 

ji  Haunch  of  Veniion. 


*■  <  t 


iiatifiaPaddine. 


Mushrooms,  in 
Boxes. 


Raspberry 
Cream, 


Gum  Paste 
Ba&ketnf  Pastry. 


Arlic)i(>Ke 
Bottoms  inSaope.; 


■!■>        P 


WaxBaskftof 

Prawns^ 


two  Wild  Ducks, 


■-■  >..<-ii 


876 


• ! :  *< 


^.OCTOBER  10.    Hq:  284.    BILL  OF  FARE. 


1      .  FlUST  COURSE. 


SoupSantSf 

Removed  with 

Turket^  boiled,  and  Celery 

Sauce,- 


Risolei. 


Tenderoncs 

of  VeHl  and 

Truffles. 


Neck  of 
Venisoi;. 


Toiiguti 

glazed*  and  a 

Pur^e  of 

Turnips. 


Neck  of 

Pork 
roasted. 


Poulet 
&  ia  l>ackesse. 


LambCutletsand 
Sauce  Ptquaiit. 


1 


Fish, 

He  moved  with 

Roast  Beef. 


SECPND  COURSE. 


Three  Partridget. 


Drejsed  Lobster. 


French  Beans.- 


Damson 
Tfiurle. 


Stewed  Celery. 


Fat  Livers, 
in  Casef. 


A  Hare, 


A  Dinner  for  Seventy  Farmers,  and  their  families,  given 
.  at  Stow  annually,  on  the  IPM  of  October,  being  Hent» 
:    «%.* 


9  Haunches  r>f  VWnison. 

■^^RoniidsofBeen 

4  Geese. 

t  Sirtuinsof  Beef,  roasted. 
'  t  Hind-quarter  of  Lamb,  Leg  boiled, 
'  Loin  fried. 

t  Fore-quarter  of  ditto,  roasted. 

1  Leg  of  Pork  boiled,   and  Peas- 
ptidd^ng.      !  i      <       >> 

1  Leg  of  Pork  roamed. 

Y  Hams  boiled,  and  Greens.    " 


I 


1 


1 1  oiigues,  and  Greens. 

4  Dishes  of  Fowls,  boiled  &  roaaCed; 

3  FoMfIs  on  each  Dish. 
4  Large  P(umb  Puddings, 
4  Apple  Pies. 
16  Dishes  of  Vegetables. 
i  Chines  of  Mutton. 
3  Legs  of  ditto  boiled,  and  Turnips. 
8  Meat  Pies. 
*l  f^ifi  of  Veal, 
t  Fillet  of  Veal. 


*  My  motive  for  setting  tRis  dinn^jr  down  is,  tu  shew  to  ibe  public  ih« 
Igreat  hospitality  of  the  Marquis  to  ^is  teuanify*  and  t«  give  au  idea  to  a 
"yowng  nran  how  to  provide-iaf  a  farmer's;  dinnt- r.  - 


«7 


. OCTOBER  1 1.    No.  a85.  feILL  OF  PARE. 


■■  >■  "■  i» 


1 


.FIRST  COURSE. 


Soup  a  la  Reiney 

Removed  with  FtSlI, 
_    Jiemoved  wit)» 

ji  Rump  of  Beeff 

a  la  Daube. 


Small  Mutton 
Pies. 


■«  I         I  tm 


Goose, 


White  CoUofw 
and  NlushrooiQs. 


Chine  of  Lamb 

"and* 
Frem;h  Bo«t». 


Breast  of 

Veal 
Ragu&t. 


fFrame.l 
«  I 


Two 

.Chickens 
a  laAeine. 


» 


Tongisp, 

irntshedfgiazed 

tnd  ^  Pur^e  of 

Tuniipt.     .  ■ 


Fricassee  of 

Rabbit  and 
Oiiionsji. 


Neck  of  Pork 
roasted. 


Petit  Paies. 


:.  :  Koup^   '   : 

.Removed  wiih  F1SH»     . 
Removed  with 
ui  Haunch  of  Venison. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Four  Partridges. 


Orange  Tpiuie. 


Srewed  Cclerjf. 


Jelly. 


Apple  Pie. 


■T~f»« 


Cauliflower  and 
White  Sauce. 


i        ■   ^.4- 


Cederata  Cream. 


Four 
Pigeons. 


i  Frame.? 


■^ 


Rhenish  Cream. 


Mushrooms. 


Damson  Pie. 


Qraoge  Jelly. 


Artithoke 
Bottoms  in  Saaci 


Raspberry 
Tourte. 


Three  Teal. 


><       .J*    «# 


Removed  with 

4  ^g  of  Pork  a  la  Boisseaiu 


Ve«l  Oliyes 

glsEeH,  mnd 

Sauce  Piquant. 


37$ 

OCTOPER  jg.    No.  g8&    BILL  OF  PARE. 
FlRSl^  COURSE. 


BeefCoIlop*. 


■   ■  — 


Votevent  of 
Fi8b. 


Salmie  of 
P«rtridg«9. 


Tenderoues  of 

Lamb  and 

Mushrooms. 


Fishy 
Removed  with 

jj  Chine  of  Mutton. 


SECOND  COURSTE. 

'  ji  Pheagani. 


Spinach  &  Eggs. 


French  Beam. 


Pudding. 


f   '■ 


Ratific        Iiobster».ia 


the  Shell. 


Pastiy. 


Caailflower. 


Jl-'SwiPC 


OCTOBERS.    No.  287.    BILL  OF  FARE. 


£1KST  COUUSEl. 
Italian  Soup^ 

Removed  with 

A  Turkey  boiled^ 

And  Oynter  and  Ceilery  Saaee. 


IVo  Sweetbreads 

larded,  and 

Sotrel  Saufle. 


MutuuiCntlets, 

aud 
Sattce  Piquant. 


A  Ham,  braised, 
gta«edt&  Greens. 


PeUt  P&t^fl. 


f  lilei  of  Rabbit 

larded,  and 

Mushrooms. 


Removed  with 

A  Sirloin  of  Be^. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Two  Wild  Dueks. 


•     ' '    '    1    • 

Cauliflower 
a  Id  Flamond. 


Broiled 
Mu^hrooius. 


Apple  ami      4 
Barberry  Pie.     | 


Maccaroni. 


French  Beans 
in 


Two  RahbUi. 


mmm 


379 

OCTOBER  14.    No-  «8$.    BILI^  OF  F4RE. 


FjlRST  COURSE. 

A  Tureen  of  Rice  iSatip, 
with  a  Fowlj 

Re  moved  with 

J  ijeg  of  ham!^' 


A  Fowl, 
i  Im  Besliemel. 

.1      I "     t      1' 


Two  Partridges, 
and  SaToy. 


SSCONP  CQURSR. 


A  Pheasant* 


A  Goo8«. 


)z  Ramps  and 
[amcot  Roots. 


■  ■  ■^— 

A  Mutton  and 

Potatoe  Pie, 


A  Fillet  0/  VeaL 


Lobster, 
dressed^ 


PTh-, 


Salsific  and 
lti4uiA  Solace. 


AChaflo<te« 


Artichoke^ 
Bottoffiit 
in  Siilfee. 

— *ci~ 


atmvd  Oysters. 


Pigeons. 


OCTOBER  15.    No,  ^89.    BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Soup  Sant4^ 

Removed  with 
A  Heck  of  Venison^ 


>rk  Catlets  and 
mhed  Potatoes. 


Pelit  Pa:6s. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Six  Quails. 


») 


Omelet  Scfuffle. 


Stewed  Celery. 


Gait's  Head 

hashed,  and 

grilled. 


Three 
Partridges 
la  Beshemell. 


Puolet  a  la 

Duches&e,  and 

Mushrooms. 


Removed  with 

Ribs  of  Beef^  rolled. 


SaUifie, 
with  §auce. 


Ragout  Mcll^. 


Two  Chickens, 


^ 


"    PARTniDGES  A  LA  BESHEMEL. 

Cut  the  breasts  out  without  breaking  the  back^  or  divide 
ing  the  legs  from  the  cat^case ;  but  paste  round  them  th# 
same  way  as  a  fowl  ^  la  Besbemelj  and  finish  in  all  r&* 
spects  the  same  way. 

N.B.  Partridges  that  have  been  roasted  are  bedt  for  thu 
purpose. 

OCTTOBERie-    No  290.    BILL  OF  FARE. 


^.* 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Soup.  SantS, 

Removed  with 

jt  Fillet  of  VeaL 


J[dtmbCotleU& 
Saape  Piquant. 


Civet  of  Hare. 


BeefTrfmblanc 

and  Harricot 

Roots. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Three  Cartridges. 


Salsifie  fried  in 
Batter. 


Traffles  in  a 
Napkin. 


Tenderones  of 

Vea4  and 

Mushrooms. 


Petit  Plkt^. 


Fish^     • 

Removed  with 

A  Chine  of  Mutton, 


Apple  and 
Barberrjr   Pie. 


Lobster  in  the 
Shell. 


Wild  Duck. 


381 

OCTOBER  17.    No,fl9l.    BILt  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 
Soup  a  ia  Reine^ 

Removed  wrth  FLSH, 
Removed  with 

A  Htmnch  of  Venison. 

SECOND  COURSE, 

• 

Two  Pheasjanisy  one  larded. 

A  Soatie  of 
Mutton  atid 

Semels  and  Pi- 
quant Sauce, 

Orange  Tartlets. 

Grape  Tart. 

difamhcr. 

• 

Cauliflower 
a  la  Flamond. 

Spinach 
and  Crou4ons. 

lreMfr«f  Veal 

Partridges  and 
iSavojs. 

lagod*d,  and 
UusbrooiBs. 

• 

A  Charlotte. 

Jelly. 

lam  braised* 
rlajsed,   and 
Coulis. 

Boiled  Turkey 

and  Celery, 

MrithQyster  Sauce 

Three  Teal. 

Three 
Woodcocks. 

, 

Rhenish  C^eam. 

Ratifie  Puddtttk 

« 

Serpent  of 
Mutton  and  a 
Por^e  of  Roots. 

>>n]pdte  of 

Pigeons* 

French  Beans. 

Mashrooms. 

- 

»etit  Par^s. 

Matelot  of 
Rabbit. 

A4>ricotToar^e. 

s 

Rospberry  Puffs. 

Soup  SantSj 
Removed  wUh  FISH, 
Removed  witli            • 

Roast  Beef. 

ji  Hare^ 

383 


OCTOBER  18.    No.  e§2.    BILt.  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSii. 
Soup  a  la  Fkunond^ 

Removed  with  FISH, 

Iteriidved  irith 

A  Hausich  of  VenUon^ 


-  FiUetrof  FowH 
and  an  Emince. 


MMIte 


fwoSwee  threads 
a-b-Reine; 


Ctrenadinar 
ghuEedy  and' 
SdiYel  Saube. 


N«tk  of  P6i% 
roasted. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


JVwif  Pariridgts. 


Gum  Paste 
Baaket  of  Pastry. 


« ^T» 


•*>!     tf 


;Siiia4^Ham, 
i)raiivUy 

iglazi^dtand' 
vfeem* 


fed 


Hatmclrof 

t^nnb; and 

Ciiconbar 

Sauce. 


U 


■noalara  of  Vcat* 

and 
Saoce  Piqnantw 


Fi'encli  Btftns. 


CufrantTirt. 


Wax  Batket 
of  Cra>-6«h. 


C^«iiflQfwer. 


fiarberrv  Tart. 


Two  Ckickens 
i'luReme. 


Two 

Chickeni', 

one  larded. 


{Thane.  I 


T»o 

'Rabbits. 


Orange'Toarte. 


'<Ai>J 


Lamb  CotJets 
larded,  breast 


Three  Pigeons 


r«Weth  and  .  la«i«d^  and 

Mushrooms.         Asparagat  Peas. 


Soup  SaniSj 

RemoTed  with  FISH» 

RcmoTed  ivith 

J  Loin  of  Veal. 


Artichoke 
Bottoms. 


Apple  Tait. 


SpiBach 
CtdoIoq. 


WaxRisket 
of  Prawns. 


Basket  of 
Paatiy. 


383 


OCTOBER  )Ch    No^  893.    BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRSt  COURSE. 
Gtblei  Souj^f  «  la  Toriue^ 

Hem9T«4  wM  FISH* 
RemoTed  with 

AHmtneh  of  Lamh 

larded,  and  Cucumber  Sauce. 


M«***MAi*«i^'*A* 


•*    •  •  «-  -  >         ■ 


Matelot  of 
Tnidr. 


akMMtta 


^Htet  of  Mutton 
and  Harricot 
fieaos. 


Petit  PaUf, 


Stewed  Beef  & 
Ifarticbt  Roott. 


Leg  of 

'orka  la 
toitsean. 


X"'*"^'^\      .    Neck 
JFramv|  of 

l«.i»«.^(       Vedison. 


roii|!it||la4ed« 

g^misbed*  and 

Turnips. 


i„  *■*  i  «ii»ii< 


>nmli  Mntton 
P»a. 


Fillet  of  YeaL 


•    I    >       I    W  Ml 


Poulard 
I  In  Dachette. 


5bifp  Julien^ 

BenoTed  with  FISH, 

Removed  with 

A  Chine  of  Mutton. 


SECONi>  COURSe. 


2^  mid  Duokf. 


■•■  ••  ■'  ■•■-  -  1 


Jetty. 


Stewed  Celery. 


Apple  Frifters. 


CederaU  Crenm. 


Spinach 
and  Croutons. 


Small  Pastry. 


PheaMnt. 


Four 
Pigeons. 


Sm^il  Pastif . 


French  Baaasr 


RaspbeityCtems 


Uice  Twitters. 


Artichoke  Bot- 
toms in  Savco. 


Oranife  Jelly.. 


A  Hare» 


fill  11  i; 


irt*. 


' 


9  -> 


384 
CiCTOBEft  ^. ' '^o.  294.  'bi£l  of  FARE. 


,         FIRST  COURSE. 

Soup  Cresscyy 

*                     Reiiioved  wiih 

A  Turkey,  and  Truffies. 

SECOND  COURSE. 

*  •.  • 

Partridget. 

Ten^ercnes  ot 
Veal  aud ..  .  ■ 
Musbroonis. 

Porl  Steaks 
and.  mashed 

Potatoes. 

\.^.      \\    "" 

BAgQ^t  Melle. 

MuahrwMM. 

*      "       "" 

Two 

Chickens 
a  la  Heine 

Ham 
braised* 

•nd 
Greens. 

Neck  ot  Yeal 

braised,  and 

Sauce  a  la 

Heine. 

Compete 
of  Pippins. 

Chantiiry 
Basket. 

Jellj. 

1 

■  .    1 

Calves' Feet,  and 
Spanish  Saoce. 

Harricotuf 
Mutton. 

Spinach 

"in  Boxes. 

• 

An  Omdci. 

;       Fuk, 

'  Rf^rooved  with 

-  A  Sirloin  of  Beef. 

Tieo  RkbbHs^  roasted. 

OCTOBER  21.    No.  095.    BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 

Vermicelli  Soupy 

Hemoved  with 
A  Sucking  Pig. 


SECOND  COURSE. 
Two  Wild  Dmkt. 


BlanquetofFowl 
and  Truffles. 


ILaiob  Cutlets  and 
I  Sauce  Piquant. 


-Uib 


Sweetbreads 
'  larded, 
glased,  aud 

Sorrel  Sauce 


Raised 
Pie. 


Fillet  of  Beei 

larded,  aad 

Spanish 

Sauce. 


Beet  Root  and 
Sharp  Sauce. 


Macdaroni. 


Risoies, 
fried  in  Paste. 


White  Collops 
and  Mushrooms. 


Fuh, 

RewoTed  with 

A  Chine  of  Mutton. 


Pastry, 


Compete  of 

Apples 
a  la  Creroe. 


Pastry. 


£s('aloped 
Oysters. 


Artichcikes. 


Pigeons, 


99S 


OCTOBER  at.    iro^«96.    Bills-  OF  TATTE. 


FIRST  (pOURSJi.  ^ 
Soup.San/e^ 

"Remove^  with 

'J  Film  bfVeaL 


Fricassee 
f  Chickens  and 
Mugbroorot.-- 


.  Hsrricot 
of  Mutton. 


Lamb 
r4e. 


Tongue"  gar- 
nished, i'Uzed, 
and  Greens. 


Pie. 


wo  Partri(lg«« 
la  lieshemel. 


AS6mic4ofVeal 
add  JVIushrqoais. 


Fish. 

Removed  with 

Aijkine-of  Mutton* 


SErCOKJ):CQURSE. 
A  Pheaumt, 


Sal$i^Q) 
fried  in  Batjer, 


CauliRower ' 
a  la  FtaniDi^d. 


Cederat 
Cream. 


Chanliiljf    . 
Cake.     ' 


Jfcllj. 


Eggs  a  la  Trip. 


lobster 
an  Gratin. 


Jrf'  tT£{re. 


QcroBEft  23: .  iio.  $91 :  bill  of  fare; 


FIRST  GOUlVSii-  . 


Soup-fnlien^ 
Hemovrdwith 
Brisket  of  lieef  Hewed^ 
luzed^  and  Tomata  Samce. 


east  of  X^rab 
{lazcdj  and 
Spinach. 


Civet  of  Hare. 


►••"^"^^••< 


A  Goose. 


•  i .  > 


rch  CoUops. 


Pigs'  Fe«t, 
ancf  Ears. 


Fish^ 
A  Fillet  of  Feal. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


A  Pheasant* 


Ragodt  Mi/16. 


Cauliflower 
k  la  Crdrae. 


;Chantillj(  Basinet. 


Lobster,  dressed. 


Ham,  and 
Poached  Eggs. 


TwQ'  Wild  Dueks. 


fi 


wWK 


OCTOBER  24.    No.^8..    BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COUiiSE- 


Soup  and  Bouilley 

A  Loin  of  Veal. 


Swevt  breads 
l«rded>     . 
and  an  Eniince. 


Sheep' Kiimps  ! 
and  iCiduiet. 


M^i«aa*iaiBM 


Hani  braisedy 

glazed,  and 

Greens. 


Veal  Odvcs,  and 
Mushrooms. 


Two  Chickens 
a  la  Rehie. 


FUh, 

liemoTed  with 
Roast  lieef. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Three  Pariridgei. 


Caoliflower. 


Mushreons. 


Orange 
Toane. 


Jellj. 


Apple 
P*e. 


Stewed  Ojsters. 


Sfiinach 
and  Croutons. 


Three  Woodcocks. 


OCTOBER  9.5.    No.  299.    BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Soup  Cressei/j 

Removed  with 

A  Haunch  of  Lamb^  and 
Tomata  SaUce. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Two  Widgeons. 


Pork  Cutlets 

and  roafhed 

Potatoes. 


Blanquet  of 

Veal  and 
Mushrooms. 


Stewed  Celerj. 


Fondue, 
hi  Gases. 


A  Goose. 


Fricassee  of 
Rabbit. 


Ox  Humps 
and  Savovs. 


i 


Fifihj 

RemovcH  with    •  * 

A  Chine  (^Mutton. 


.  Spinach 
in  B4>xes. 


Artichoke 
Bottoms. 


A  Hare 


387 


OCTOBER  26.    No.  300.  .  BILL  OF  FAR?. 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Rice  Sonpj 

RemoTcd  wiih 

A  boiled  Leg  of  Pork  and 
Greens, 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Semrlls  and 
Sauee  Piqaant. 


Fricassee 
of  Chickens. 


Peas  Podding. 


White  Cotlops. 


Petit  Fal6s. 


fish, 
Removed  with 

Roast  Beef. 


A  Pheasantn 


Caoliflower 
i  la  Cr^me. 


Saliifie» 
fried  in  Batter. 


I  Chant  ill^*  Coke. 


Lobster 
au  Gratin. 


Eggs  a  la  Trip. 


Two  Wild  Ducks. 


OCTOBER  27.    No.  301.    BILL  Op  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Soup  a  la  Flamond. 

Removed  with 

4  Turkey,  with  Ouster  atid 
Celertf  Sauce, 

/eaf  Olives  and 
Sauce  Piqaant. 


Fricassee 
of  Rabbits. 


ybine  of 
Lamb. 


Vole  vent 


Ham,  braised, 

glazed,  and 

Greens. 


Two  Ckickens 
a  la  Heine. 


Uarricot 
of  Mutton. 


Fish, 

Removed  with 

Boost  Beef, 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Pheasant, 


Jerusalem 
Artichokes. 


Mushrooms. 


>IMkl 


.JtAa 


Cede  rata 
Cream. 


Savo^  Cake. 


Jelly. 


"♦■*'■>«■• 


Cauli^otver 
a  la  Flamubd. 


Tbo  Wild  Ducks. 


n 


386 


•  • 


OCTOBER  28.    No.  302.    BILL  OF  FARE. 


JL 


FIRST  CpUftSE. 
Soup  Stmte^ 

I  Removed  wth 

\A  Loin  ofVtdt  a  Id  BeshemeU 


fWei  of  Tork 
Kn())Rober  Sauce 


I     Rump' 
of  Beeif 
alaMantaa. 


A  Goose. 


Leg  of 

Tjamb  boiled 

Luih  fried, 

&  Spinach. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Three  Puriridgef, 


Maccaroni. 




A  Pheasant 

and  Savoy, 


Small 
Mutton  Pies. 


Fish^ 

Removed  with 

ji  Chine  of  Muiion* 


Spinaeh, 
in  Boxes. 


Apple 
Pie. 


A  Wax  Basil  el 
of  Prawns. 


Damson 
Pie. 


Mushrooms, 
in  Boxes. 


Kscaleped 
Oysters. 


Two  Widgeons. 


1 7  r; 


iJiAJ>..i»^S 


OCtOBl^R  29.     No.  503.    BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST   COURSE. 


Vermicdii  Soup, 

Removed  wHh 

A  Legof  Lofnb  boiled.  Loin 
fried,  and  Spifmeh. 


Tenderones  of 
Veal  and  Truffles 


P«lit  P&tes. 


— 


Calf's  Head 

h85t:%~(1,~  ah*d 

•griUed. 


A 

Sitcklug 
Pig. 


A  Neck  ol 

Mutton 

braisMl, 

glazed,  and 

a  Pur6e  of 

■R(»QtS. 


Pork  Cutlets 
aad  Sai(Ge  Rober 


Capolitade 
of  Pheasant. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Pige<m$* 


Fondues, 
in  Cases. 


■  t  I   I 


Stewed  Celeij 


Ralifie 
Pudding. 


J«Hj. 


A 

Charlotte 


Removed  with 

Ribs  of  Beef,  rolled. 


Beei  Root  and 
Sharp  Sauce. 


Small  Omelet. 


.  - 


A  Wild  Duck. 


W^mm-^mfmmr^^rr^im 


369 


OCTOBER  30.    No.  304.    BILL  OF  FARE, 


FIRST  COURSE. 


J  Tur^n  ofMuHony  Broihy 
and  Roots  J 
RemoTed  with 

A  Leg  of  Fork  a  la  Botsseau, 


Pigeons  stewed/ 
and  Mashroomsi* 


Smull 
Mutton  Pies. 


A  Chjiae  of 
Lamb. 


Hiaoles. 


Ox  Rumps 
I    ai\d  Savons. 


Fishy 

Removed  with 

A  Loin  of  Veal. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Partridges. 


-     Small 
Pastry. 

Mush  rooms* 
in  Boxes. 

Rico  Fritters. 

Spinach) 
in  Boxes. 

Sniall  Pastry. 

'two  [Rabbits, 


OCTOBER  31.    No.  305.     BILL  DF  FARE. 


F1«ST  COURSE. 


Soup  Santiy 

RemoTed  with 

A  Ham  bruised^  glazed^  and 
Greens, 

Blanquet  of 

Veai  and 

Mushrooms. 


Lumb  Cutlets 

and 
Siiuce  Piqaant. 


Three  Chickens 
a  la  Reine. 


A  Fricassee 
of  Rabbit. 


Petit  PlLt6s. 


Fishy 

Removed  with 

Roast  Beef. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Artichoke 
Bottoms,  tVied. 


Spinach 
and  Croutons. 


»  r 


/ippte  and 

Barberry 

Tart. 


Chantiliy 
Basket. 


Damsoil 
Tourre. 


TT- 


Cauliflower 
aiid.S»iH:e; 


^alsifie,  fried. 


.,  f     ,    .1   T;r'   I.-.. — J- 


Two  Wild  Ducks. 


r3 


390 
NOVEMBER  1.    No.  306.    BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Soup  Cresseyj 

Removed  with 

d  Brisket  of  Beef  stewed^ 
and  Roots, 


Two  Piirtridges 
and  Savojs. 


.1 


Loin  of  Lamb 

braised,  and 

Slewed  Celery. 


Ju«;ged  Hare. 


A  Fowl 
a  ia  Besheiuell. 


A  Blade  Bone  oi 

Pork  a  lu  Bruclte 

and  masiitd 

Potatoes. 


Fish^ 

Removed  with  a 

Chine  of  Mutton. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Two  Chickens^  one  larded. 


Spinach  and 
Poached  Eggs. 


£<icak>ped 
Ojalers. 


A  Lobster 
au  Gratin. 


Maccaroni. 


Three  Teal. 


A  BLADE  BONE  OF  PORK,  AND  MASHED 

POTATOES. 

The  blade  bone  is  taken  from  a  bacon  hog,  when 
cutting  it  MP  to  make  bacon  of  it ;  the  blade  bone  may 
be  either  broiled  or  roasted ;  season  it  with  pepper  and 
salt;  and,  a  few  minutes  before  it  is  taken  from  the 
fire,  baste  it  with  butter,  and  sprinkle  a  little  fine  chopped 
sage  over  it ;  put  the  mashed  potatoes  on  a  dish,  and  the 
pork  over  it. 


3&1 

JUGGED  HARE. 

Bone  a  hzre,  and  put  the  bones  into  a  small  soup-pot ; 
add  about  a  quarter  <>£  a  pound  of  lean  ham>  three  or  four 
onions^  a  faggot  of  thyme  and  parsley,  a  few  blades  of 
niac6>  one  pint  of  good  stock,  and  a  pint  of  port  wine : 
put  the  pot  on  the  stove  to  boil  slow  for  two  hours,  and 
then  strain  it  off;  put  the  hare  on  to  blanch  (without  cut- 
ting it  up);  put  it  on  in  cold  water ;  and,  just  as  it  begins 
to  b<rit,~Take  the  steW-psm  off  and  wash  the  hare  in  seve- 
ral water?;  then  cut  the  legs  and  shoulder  parts  off,  and 
split  the  back  down  the  middle,  and  cut  each  half  into  two 
pieces ;  then  put  them  into  a  small  soup-pot,  and  the 
liquor  the  bones  were  stewed  in ;  cut  about  half  a  pound 
of  the  prime  part  of  bam,.fat'and  lean,  into  neat  pieces, 
and  put  it  to  the  hare ;  cover  the  meat  over  with  w  hite 
paper,  and  then  tl^e  lid  on  the  soup-pot;  put  the  soup-pot 
into  a  stew-pan  of -boiling  ^ater— 'the  water  should  come 
about  three  parts  up  the-soup-pot ;  put  it  on  to  boil ;  the 
stew-pan  should  have  a  good  fire  to  it  to  keep  the  water 
boiling;  when  the  water  boils  away,  put  more  boiling 
wat^rt^itv  tl)e)i^<^wiU  take  about  one  hour  after  it  comes 
to  a  boil;  when  done,  put  the  hare  on  the  dish  and  skim 
the  fat  from  the  liquor,  and  put  it  to  the  bare.  It  should 
be  sent  up  in  a  deep  dish.  It  is  proper  for  either  a  flank  or 
a  middle  dish. 


I  . 


4    • 


'302 


NOVEMBER  a:    Ko.-^Olf.-'  BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  GOVltSE;       ' 


■t 


XleiuovM:vritlp; 


Cutlets,  &CU 


.. 


'  MPnctid  and  * ' 
broiled.  Ciikiomi 


'  feiii  n{hv 


,i,i\   It  j?w  .  .j  >  ■ 


Mu^hfooiw. 


\\  '/  .■  ji  /• 


■H-r-rr 


•     tarat>Jrid=    '-S^.^^  ';? 


Oyster  Sauce. . 


'  'i      i> »  i      '1.1     T^ 


«.,'•,,     . 


*   '  Removed  with 

•  '  A  TJoMof-reciL  '■ 

i  ■  I         I         »       I   ■  I       fill       »■       It  I  I      I         I       I  II   . , 


V         I        .1         I         *t.i         •>« 


'I 


I  »£(X>NDi  j[:OlJRS£. 


••* 


l^lovets: 


<  i  •}-•* 


'.  J\ij)9hroom^ 


) I  I <  1 1 >   *. 


'  Gjjiger  Souffle. 


>i 


Arikhpk'e  B»r- 
tffoM'.iil  S40oe.: 


Oaieliit. 


'T*- 


>'i;iii   J'    -■ 


r  fheasan/. 


.'    n 


I.  >t<      II  Hj       ,  ■  M     )>i 


NOVEMBER  S.     No.  S08:  -  BltL  OI>  FARE. 


>  1 1  I     ■  ;  ■       '       I      ■»  I       j  I         I  I  ■  m  II  II       1 1 ■     ■ 

f        ElRST.COURSii:  .. 


•««« 


.'    :^  Rartl©«eid  wi»h    t    n 


A  small  Raised 

Pie  will)  Mutton 

and  Potatoes. 


A  Suuties  of 

Sweetbread  and 

Mughrooms. 


Spare*  rib 

ol  Pork. 


Petit  Pat^s. 


Tongue 

glazed, 

garnished 

&Green8. 


Bodt  Saigneaux 

glased,  and 
Sauce  H&chis. 


A  Case  with 
mixed  Game. 


FwA, 

Removed  with 

A  Sirloin  of  Beef. 


SECOND  COURSE. 

'' \Thfee  Patfrtd^ei. 


spinach  and 
Croutons. 


Ragout  Mdll. 


Apricot 
Tartlets. 


Jelly  an  Marbre. 


Spanish 
Fritten. 


Maccaroni. 


Broooli  and 
Saace. 


Two  Wild  Ducks. 


3d3 


NOVEMBER  4.    No.  S09.   BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Soup  Santej 

RemoTed  with 

J  Fillet  of  Feal' 


Bianq^aet  of 
Turkejf  and 
Musbroonis. 


riwce  Partridges 
a  la  Beshenieii. 


A  Ham  braised, 
Greeas. 


Duck  boned » 

forced,  braised, 

glazed,  and 

Turnips. 


Pork  Catlf  ts. 


Fish^ 

Removed  with 

j4  Chine  of  Mutton. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


A  Fhcdsmt. 


-?-*- 


Stewed  Ci  lery. 


Blanc  Mange^ 


Rhenish  Cream. 


Artichoke 

Bottoms  in 

Sauce. 


Shoulder  of  Lamb. 


NOVEMBER  5.    No.  3io.    BILL  OF  FARE. 


T-* 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Tureen  of  Mutton  Sf  Broth^ 

Removed  wilh 

Lf0gofPork  boiled  jSf  Greens, 


Beef  Collops 
a  J  a  Espagnole. 


Two  Sweetbreads 
larded,  glazed, 
&L  Sorrel  Sauce. 


YoletreQt  oi 
Oysters. 


Fillets  of  Hare 
larded,  glazed, 
and  aroaU 
-  Onions. 


An  Emince  of 

Lamb  and  Bhde 

Bone  brwled. 


Fish, 

Removed  with 

Ribs  of  Beef  rolled. 


K'L'!  J^. 


SECOND  COURSE. 
Tvfo  Widgeons. 


Brocoli. 


Mnihrooms 
broiled.     * 


Jelly, 


ArticlH>ke 
Bottoms. 


Salsifie  in 
^auce. 


Hare.  , 


s4 


394 


NOVEMBER  6.    No.  311.     BILL  OF  FARE. 


FiiUiT  COURSE. 
Soup  Cresic^^ 

Removed  with 

IsCg  of  Lamb  hoiUdj  Loin 
fried ^  and  Spinach, 


A  Pheasant 
hraisef)|  and 
Truffles,  &C. 


Scorch  Collops. 


Goose. 


Neat's  Tongue 

in  Catlets,  and 

Barberries. 


Frirandeaa 

glaze^i,  and  an 

Eroince. 


Jlisky 
Removed  with 

A  Chine  of  M^tion. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Three  Woodcockt. 


Maccaroui. 


Brocoli 
and  Saoce. 


Apple  Pie.      | 


Truffles  in  a 
Napkin. 


Escaloped 
Ojsters. 


Tw  Wild  Ducks. 


NOVEMBER  7.    No.  3ta.    BILL  OF  FARE. 


Pmilet 
a  la  Duchesse. 


FIRST  COURSE. 
Soupy 

Kemoved  with 

ji  Loin  of  Feal. 


Petit  Pftt^. 


I    A  Sucking  Pig. 


Lamb  Cntleti 

and  Piquant 

Sauce. 


Civet  of  Hare. 


Fishj 
llemofed  witK 

Ribs  of  Beef 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Three  Partridges. 


Brocoli. 

Lobster  aa 
Gratin. 

A 

Charlotte. 

Orange 
Jellj. 

Raiifie 
Padding. 

Maccaroni. 

Salsiiie  fried  in 
Batter. 

Three  Teai. 


S9i5 


NOVEMBERS.   JTo.  3J3.    BILL*  OF  FARE. 


Soup  Julieny 

■  p«Qio«e(|\Yvjl]^ 

A  Leg  oj Mutton  and  HarrU 
cot  Beahs\ 


XwQ  Partridges 
and  Savoj^. 


JBecf  Olives  and 
scooped  Foutuez' 


Goose. 


Breast  of  Larnb 

grilled,  and  • 

Sauce  Pti^uant. 


a« 


-Tw«RaUbits 
a  la  Purtogaese, 
andMuBhrooma* 


.   Remove^  ^th 
A  Loin  of  Feai. 


SECON  JO  COURSE. 
'    FimrPigeoni. 


Stewed  €<rlery. 


Artichoke 

Bottoms  fried  in 

Batter. 


\ 
Appte 
Fritters. 


Chaiititty 
Basket.. 


Tartleta. 


Satsifie  fried. 


Stewed  Oysters. 


A  Hare. 


NOVEMBER  9.    No.  314.    BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  CeURSE. 


Sortp  d  la  Flamondy 

ReinoTed  with 

A  Fillet  of  Veal. 


SECOND  COURSE. 
Quails* 


utron  Cutlets 
Tomata  Sauce 


Small  Mutton 
Pies, 


SaUifie  and 
Itaiun  Suae: 


*      **>H> 


filushrooms. 


Neck  of  Pork. 


Kas|.it>et< 
ryt^rt 


Orange  SoMfile. 


rv  Tart. 


Ristiles. 


Vial  Olives 
and  IVf  ushfooms. 


Maccaroni. 


Art  iHioke  Bot- 
toms in  Sauce. 


Fishy 

Hemoved  with 
u4  Sirloin  of  Beef^ 


7\po  Widgeons. 


896 


NOVliaBER  id    No.  31^    BIIXOFiFAltE. 


Soup  S ant Sy 

Removed  with  .| 

-4  If^wffcA  of  Vegiiffon. 


Calvfiiiffeetj  * 
&  la  Espagiuila 

•  .  '    T 


i^ 


Pigconr     ' 
alaCrapaudlne, 

aucc  Piquant) 


Sa 


» . 


w.l    .     r 


B^t^/Steai^Pi|.    [^^  , 


■  t      /   ^^    i 


^Iffdefeone  of 

-  Pi^rii  -  and 
maabed  Potatoes. 


», .•%  t 


Matelot  of 
Habblt. 


■• .;.  i'v  i  k>-j 


Course. 


FoutPlfroeri. 


ib.r. 


OmiSerSdiiliEb 


.   .Min  «   III.] 1- 


J    . 


Fish^ 

!R(fAio«el(..with 


I' 


Dario! 


•ka. 


..Je"j. 


Apple 
Pie. 


Eyoaiojied 
O^era. 


\ 


Tf  uflea  in  a 
Kapkuu 


nienio«e«..wiin  >i 

A  Chine  oj  Mutton. 


•'  A  Pheatani. 


N0VEMl3ERil.    No.  516.    ftiLL  OF  FARE. 


^mi^t 


Maccaroni  Soupy 

Removed -with,  a  < 

Turkey  koi^^d.SfCelerySauce. 


•*■ — J- 


SECOND  COURSE. 


I" 


Frica^sep,  of;  j 

Chicktfn     1   ! 

and  Mtwittoomsi 


'  Lamb  Cutlet^ 

..  h  and  - 
;Sauo«-P4quant. 


Ht<m'br*!5eq,     1     , 
"gtazrd,    omf      J 

GreTns    "  ~f  ■  " 

■  '■^ — *- 

-  - .     I II i»i f  ■-  II  III     i< I 


Ttko  ChickenSj 

.  ohe  larded. 


Petba. 


Petit  Paie». 


White  Ct  I'ops. 


Fishr. 
Removed  wi?h 

Raard-i^eef. 


«      II  I 


Crajf>fi«h. 


^  ChiuUilly  Cake. 


Lobster  cald. 


Spinach  and 
Croutons. 


Ilare^ 


NOVEMBER  la.   No.  si 7.   Vlhh  OP  FAtm. 


FIRST  COURSE. 

< 

Soup  SantSy 

Removed  with 

A  Leg  of  Mution  and 
Harricot  Beans* 


mm^^f^t^P' 


SECO&D  JCOlfftSE. 


m^mmmm*^ 


*A  Pheasant.   '  • 


Risoles. 


T«ttidctx>nes  o^ 
Veal  AcTrofflesi 


Macoaroni. 


Moikroomt.  ! 


;  .. 


Neck  of  Pork 
roasted.    . 


Gates  a . 

Miilefleur. 


Breast  of  JL^ml) 
'  grilled,  and 
Sauca  Pi«toant. 


Petit  Pte4f. 


Removed  with  { 

A  FiUet  of  Fml* 


Ragodt  Meil^.  I  [  Uam.aad  E^s; 


,  l^wo  Wild  i)mhs. 


i^OVteMBBRld.    No.  S18.    BILL  OF  FARE, 


F|l^8T>  COURSE. 
Soup-emd-  Bo  u  ille^ 

Removed  with 

A  Hmait^^bf  -Fienison. 


Blanquet  of 
Turkey. 


A  Civet  of 
.  Hare,' 


ifc  I  til 


Tonga e 

garnished 

glazed,  & 

mashed - 

Turnip*. 


A  Spare  Rib 
of  Potk. 


Fillet 

of 
Veal. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


,  Three  Partridges. 


Atlets  of 
Oysters. 


-^  * 


Fondues 
in  Gases. 


■ ' '      < 


v  '  • 


Uanricot  of 
Mutton. 


Frhasaee  of 
Chicken, 


RemoVcd  with 
Jiibs  of  Beef, 


Compdte 

of. 
Pippins. 


Raspberry 
Tourte. 


Jelly.: 


Spinach 
'in  Boxes. 


Salsifie  fried. 


■+■ 


Three  Woodcocks. 


JmmtL 


am 

NOVEMBEftl4.  No.  sijj.    BILL  OF  FARfi. 


■Lamb  Cafelets    i 
&SftU€e  Piquant. 


FIRST  COURSE. 


«  ■       w»  * 


Pea  Saupi 

ReiDovefl  with 

A  Brisket  of'  B^f  glazed^ 
and  Tomata  Sauce. 


Woodcecln 
a  U  Tartar. 


Petit  PiM^i.    ■ 

I 


Poulet 
&  la  Dachessc. 


Search  Coliops. 


Removed  with.. 

A  Chine  of  Mutton. 


SECOND  course: 


Six  Snipes, 


An  Omelet 
and  Sauce. 


Broroii 
and  Sance. 


A 

Charlotjte. 


Blanc  Mange. 


Ratifie 
Pudding. 


Artichoke  Bot- 
toms in  Sattce. 


Mnsbrooms. 


Two  Widgeons. 


NOVEMBER  15.    No.  320.    BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Rice  Soupy 

'  Removed  with  . 

A  Leg  of  Pork  boiled, 
and  Ghreens. 


A  Pheasant 
and  Savoy. 

Beef  Steaks 
&  Oyster  Sauce. 

Peas  Pudding. 

Sheep's  Rumps 
and  Kidnies.    < 

Dock   hcaised, 
aodTutoips. 

Fish^ 

Rereoyed  with 

A  Fillet  of  Veal 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Six  PigeomSk 


AnchoTjf  T^Bast. 


Spinach  and 
Eggs. 


Chantilljr  Cake,  j 


Stewed  Oysters. 


Hare. 


399 


NOVEMBER  16.    No.  321.    BILL  OF  PARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Soup  SantSj 

Removed  with    •. 

A  Haunch  of  Venison. 


A  Mntton  and 

PoUtoe  Pie 

raited. 

Pork  Cutlets 
&  Rober  Sauce. 

* 

Neck  of  Veal 
roasted-. 

Ox  Palates 

rolled,  aad  a 

Ragofit. 

Petil  PAies. 

Fiihj 

Removed  with 

A  Sirloin  of  Beef 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Three  Partridges • 


Beet  Root  and 
Vinegar  Sauce. 


Brocoli  and 
Italian  Sauce. 


Jelly. 


Stewed  Celery. 


Maccaroni. 


Two  Wild  Ducks. 


NOVEMBER  17.     No.  322.    BILL  OF  FARE, 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Gribkt  Soup^ 

Removed  with 

FilUt  of  Veal. 


3eef  Olives  and 
:boped  Potatoei 


Risules 
in  Paste. 


Neck  of  Pork 
Roasted. 


Petit  TktU. 


Fillet  of  Pork 
and  Rober  Sauce. 


Fi*A, 

Kfmoved  with 

ji  Chine  of  Mutton. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


A  Pheasant. 


Rago{it  Meli^. 


Bracoli. 


Mushroom 
Fritters. 


Damson 
Pie. 


Spanish 
Fritters. 


Salsifie  in  Sauce. 


An  Omelet. 


A  Hare. 


400 
NOVEMBER  18.    No,  3«^.    BILL  OF  FABE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 


-r*- 


A  Tureen  of  Mutton  and 
Brothy  with  Roofsy 

Removed  with 

A  Loin  of  Veuh 


Fricassee  of 
Chickens  and 
Mushrooms. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Lamb  C«Klets 
a  la  Itaiiiume. 


A  Neck  ui' 
Venison, 


A  Civet  of  Hare. 


A  Soutiesof  . 
^6le. 


Fishy 

xtemoveo  with 

Roast  Beef 


-.-. — r-*- 


Three  FartridffiU 


Ragoat  Mcll^. 


BrocoU 
a  la  Flamond. 


Compdte  of 
Pippins. 


Salsifie  in  Sauce. 


An  Omelet 
Souffle. 


A  Widgeon. 


NOVEMBER  19.    No.  3^4.     BILL  OF  FAKE. 


FlKSr  COUKSE. 
'    Soup  SantSy 

Removed  with 
A  Sucking  Pig. 


A  Fillet  of  Pork 

lardetl,  ^)aaed, 

lud  Saoce  Rabet 


^cth  Tkth, 


Neck  ot 
Mutton 
braised,      ^  i      '       , 


A  Turkey 
Smiled,  and 


8  Pur6e  of 
Hoots. 


Ojrster 

Sauce. 


A  Ham 

braised, 

glazed,  & 

Qreens. 


Risoles. 


Sweetbreads 
larded,  glazed, 
&  Sorrel  Sauce. 


Fish, 

Removed  with 
A  Chine  of  Mutton. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


7%ree  Woodcocks. 


Livers  of 

Poultry 

k  la  Broche. 


Mushrooms  in 
Boxes. 


I  ■  I' 


Quince 
Tourte. 


Spinach  in 
Boies. 


Ham  and  £^ 


Hare. 


401 


FIRST  COURSE. 

FermicelU  Soup^ 
«Remgv«€i;wi$h 

A  Haunch  of  Venison. 


ftagottt; 


Woadc^qkt 
aUTATt^lEi. 


Two 


"■    r' 


-     *  .        I       ToiiaBcl  Two 

*"!!  .h!5     ^lazecC  8,r.  Chicken. 


9fiCONl>'  COURSE. 


Pariridge^m 


S^werijCjelfrj. 


Spina  all  Bud 
Croatoi)*. 


P^Mrj, 


■.^^^■^  t  ^<    I     f 


A^^ndfue. 


Pastry. 


'  t 


.  .11  »■  X  i^p  I 


Maielot  of  Eeis 


ii«.a<<   «ii     lii 


Cuiupt^te  of- 
Pigeons, 

*  *   --  --  ^ 


Removed,  with 


BrocDliiir&nic,?. 


Artichoke 
BVittbms  in    , 
Sauce. 


Snipet, 


NQVEMBeU  3J,    No.  526.-   BIEL  OF  PAftE.  i 

'  '  '  *        '         »  V       ^      '         *  I 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Soup\d  Ik  RiinCy 

Removed  with 

A  Fillet  of  Teal. 


f  Bla< 
Pork 


I  f 


Blade  Bone  of 
and  mashed 
PoTatoe«. 


Petit  Vk\H. 


Neck  of  Venison. 


■*-i- 


Small  Mutton 


"A"  Xvoulird  of 
Mutton  and 

B'OOtS. 


RemoYcd  with     ' 


•i   >  d 


>   •'» 


■  \ 


SfcCOND'OOCJRSB. 
A  Pheasaritw- 


^^iifiii  in  SfH^cQ. 


— »— r- 


AlleftidfOyl^en. 


-H- 


Apple  apd 

BArherrj 

Pie. 


Jeily. 


1— r 


Daonon  ' 
Tourle:   ! 

I 


>■     ■    I 


Crayfish, 


■        "T 
»    -    a 


I  gill 


Sals^fie  in  Sauce 


Snipes. 


•tmmtlfmiam^mm^t^ 


402 
NOVEMBER  22.    No.  827.    BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Soup  Cresse^y 

Removed  with 

A  Leg  of  Pork  a  la  BoisseOu. 


Lamb's  Hesd 
a  ia  Royal. 


Calves'  Feet 
Si  la  Espagnofe. 


A  Gosse* 


Stewed 

Beef  and 

Roots. 


Neck  of 

Veal 

roasted. 


SECOND  COURSE. 
A  Pheasant. 


Artichoke 
Bottoms  fried. 


Venison  bashed 


Fowl 
a  la  Besbemell. 


Fish\         ~ 
Removed  with 

A  Chine  of  Mutton. 


Trafl|e8,iaa 
r  Napkin. 


A  Charlotte 


Smoked  Salmon 
in  a  Case, 


An  OmeJet 
Souffle. 


Two  mid  Ducks. 


NOVEMBER  23.    No.  328.    BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 

Soup  a  la  Flamondy 
Removed  with     '  < 
A  Neck  of  Mutton  braised^ 
glazedy  and  Tomata  Sauce* 

Fricandeao 

glazedt  and 

Sorrel  Sauce. 


A  Salmie  of 
Wild  Ducks. 


Breast  of         Pigeon 


YealRagoiit. 


Pie, 


Neck  of 
Pork. 


0\  Palates 

rolled,  and  a 

Ra^oQt. 


Cutlets  of 

Sweetbreads, 

with  line  Herbs, 

and  Sauce 

Piquant 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Six  Snipes. 


Fat  Livers, 
in  a  Case. 


Slewed  Celerj. 


Pen  d'Amours 

with  Currant 

Jtlly. 


Comp6te 

of 
Pippins. 


Rice 
Friitett. 


Removed  with 

Rtbs  pf  Beef  J  rolled. 


Spinach  and 
Croutons. 


TWRoMtfo. 


403 


NOVEMBER  24.    No.  329.    BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 

Soup  Cresse^j 

Removed  'with 

A  Haunch  of  Venison. 


• 

Tenderones  of 

Lamb  and 

Mushrooms. 

Snipes 
a  la  Tartar. 

Stewed 

Beef  and 

Roots. 

Three 
Cbickeos 
boiled,  and 

Sauce 
2  la  Reine. 

A  Bacon 
Chine 
and 
Greens. 

Petit  pat^. 


CutletsofMutton 

plain  broiled, 

and  Toraata 

Sauce. 


Removed  with 

A  Loin  of  Veal, 


SECOND  COURSE. 

Four  Woodcocks. 


Brocoli  aad 
White  Sauce. 


Cheese- 
cakes. 


A  Triae. 


Apple 
Fritters. 


Salsifie 
in  Sauce. 


Mushrooms, 
in  Boxes. 


A  Pheatant. 


NOVEMBER  25.    No.  330.   BILL  OF  FARE. 


^^-4. 


FIRST  COURSE. 
Soup  Julienj 

Removed  with 

A  Fillet  of  Veal. 


»odt  Saigneaux, 
td  Saoce  Hachis 


Matelot  of 
Tench. 


.  Raised 
*ie,  with 
/'euisou. 


A  Le|t  of 

J^amb 
roasted. 


A  Jogged 
Hare,  in  a 
raisad  Pie. 


wo  Partridges 
and  Savoys. 


Pigs*  Feet  and 
Ears. 


Fish^ 

Removed  with 

A  Chine  of  Mutton* 


SECOND  COURSE. 

Four  Plovers* 


Fondues, 
in  Cases. 


Artichoke 

Bottoms,  in 

Sauce. 


Gateau 


Jelly 


Millefleur.    an  Marbre. 


Apple  U 

Barberry 

Tart. 


Peths  fried. 


Escaloped 
Oysters. 


>Ttoo  Widgeons » 


404 
NOVEMBER  26.    No.  331. 


BILL  QF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Soup^ 
Removed  with 

A  Leg  of  Mutton^  and 


A  Fowl 
k  la  Beshemell. 


I 


Blatiqaet  of 

Veal  and 
Mushrooms. 


Call's  HtaU 
bashed  and 
.    grilled. 


A  Sucking 
Pig. 


Al^eck 

of 
Venison. 


A  Fricassee 
Qt  VrffiieMeBf 


Veal  OliTes. 


wiw  »  »■  I     I  in  I  » 


Fish, 

Removed  with 

I       Ribs  of  Beefiiroiiech 


SECOND  COURSE, 


Six  Snipes, 


Maccaroni. 


Stewed  Celarj. 


Orange 

Jelljr. 


Compdle  »f     IChaBnfl) 
Pippina.       |    Cake. 


Mushrooms 
broiled. 


I T    «  »» 


An  OnwIcL 


A  Hare. 


NOVEMBER^?-    No.  332.    BILL  OF  FARE. 


FUISX  ,CQUaSE., 

*  • 

Turnip  Soupy 

Hemoved'wtth 

Siezced  Berf  and  Harricot 
fioots. 


Lamb  Cntlets 
a  U  Italieone. 


■^"•■i"*^^^^"^^ 


Salmies  of 
Wild  Duck. 


i#  ■■  I   I  I  I       » 


A  Spare 
Bib  of 
Pork. 


1— ^ 


A  Tnrkey 
and  TVuffles. 


Tongue, 

garni^edf 

glased;  and 

Greens. 


i^— fW^»^ 


I  H  ■! 


Venison  Steaks 
5c  Tomata  Sauce. 


•*r 


Tripe,  fried 
in  Batter. 


Fish^ 

Kemored  with 

A  Chine  of  Muiion. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


A  Pheasants 


Ham  and  Eggs. 


Brocoli  mmI 
Italian  Saocc 


Rhenish  ' 
Cseam. 


Savoj 
Cake. 


Rattfie 
Paddiaf. 


Salsifiey  fried. 


Atiets  of 
Palatrs. 


f.r 


Two  wad  Ducks. 


•XT 


A 


405 


NOVEMBER  28.    No.  333.    BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE 


•    I 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Vermicelli  Soup^ 
ReiDOTed  with 

J  Haunch  of  Venison. 


Tenderones  of 
iTeal&Traffles. 


Petit  P&t6s. 


A  Goose. 


Poniet  a  i» 
Duchesse, 


Wdud  cocks 
a  la  Tartar. 


Six  Snipes* 


BrocoH  and 
Browii  Sauce. 


1.    'i      1 


Stewed  (Jysters 
and  Croutons. 


Ratifie 

Pnddingr. 


A  Trifle. 


A 

Charlmite. 


Fish, 

ReMOved  with 

Roast  Beef. 


iikt. 


Ham  and  Toast. 


Stewed  Celerj. 


Two  Rtthbih^ 


NOVISMBER  29.    Nt>.  3^4.    BILL  OF  PARE. 


FIRST  COUliSE. 
Soup  Santky 

Removed  with 

I  Ham  braised^  glazed,  and 
Greens* 


.A  Carrie  of 

Rabbit  and  a 
Rim  of  Rice. 


Sweetbreads 
lardedi  glazed, 
and  Sorrel 
Sauce. 


A  i'urke>  boiMd, 
and  Cflery  aild  * 
OjsJter  S«.uce. 


Duck  boned, 
»rced,  braised, 
and  Turnips. 


A  Rimt  with  a 
Salmie  of  Snipes 


Fishy 

Removed  with 
-jd-Chine  ef  MuOon* 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Three  Ted. 


I  U      I    I     I    » *« 


■^^^-t-t 


Brocoli 
a  la  Flamond. 


"Tat  Livers 
a  la  Brache. 


ij>-h< 


Apple  Pie 

with  a 
Costard. 


A  Wax  Basket 
of  Cray^fish,' 


Damsw 
Pie. 


Lobster 
an  ^ratin. 


Broiled 
filtishrooins. 


Three  Partridges. 


406 


NOVEMBER  SO.    No,  335.    BILL  OF  FARE 


FIRST  COURSEp 


Rerooved  with 

Brisket  of  Beef  stewed^ 
glazed^  and  Tomata  Sauce. 


A  Salmies  of 
Partridge. 


Risoles. 


A  Breast 

of  Veal 
Rago{lt. 


Raited*  Pie 
a  la  Fran9oise. 


A  Neck  of 

Venison 

braised  & 

Roots. 

1^4^ 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Petit  Pslt^s 


A  Soutiesof 
Beef  Kidnies, 


Three  Woodcocks. 


Escaloped 
O^stes. 


Spinach 
and  Crontom. 


Gooseberry 

Tart. 


Apple 
Fritters. 


Raapbenj 

Tart. 


I 


FISH, 
Removed  with 

Leg  of  Pork^  roasted. 


Artichoke 

Bottoms 

in  Sance. 


MaccarooL 


Too  fVOd  Ducks. 


DECEMBER  1.    No-  336.    BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 

Soup  and  Bouille. 

Removed  with 

A  Turkey  and  Chesnuts,  Sfc, 


A  raised  Pie, 

with  Mutton 

and  Potatoes. 


Compete  of 
Pigeons  and 
Mushrooms. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


ji  Pheasant. 


A  Chine 
of  Lamb. 


A  Haunch 
of  Venison. 


A.  Bacon 

Ghine, 

roasted. 


Two  Rabbits 

&  la  Portuguese, 

and  Truffles. 


A  Volev^nf , 
with  Ciiickens. 


FISH, 
Removed  with 

A  Sirloin  of  Beef. 


Beet  Root  and 
Sharp  Sance. 


Ham  and  £;t> 


Cederata 
Cream. 


''      '  an  Marbie. 


Rago&t  Mell^. 


Sahiiie  and 
Brown  Si 


A  Hare. 


4 


407 

DECEMBER  2.    No.  337.    BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 
Mutton  and  Brothy 

Removed  with 

A  Leg  of  Pork  d  la  Bohseau, 


Two  Chickens 
a  la  Reine. 


A  Civet  of 
Hare. 


Neok  of  Venison. 


Scorch  Collops, 
wkh  Trafflrs 
and  Morels. 


Six  Pigs' Tongues 

glazed,  and 

Greens. 


Fishy 

Removed  with 

A  Chine  of  Mutton* 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Two  Widgeons. 


Artichoke 
Bottohitf 
in  Saace. 


Spinaehy 
in  Hoxes. 


Gooseberr^ 

Tart. 


Rhenish 
Creatnr 


CH^ese- 
cakes. 


Oysters, 
in  Boxes. 


Fat  Livers 
a  la  Broche. 


Two  Widgeons. 


DECEMBER  3.     No.  338.     BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Flemish  Soup 

•  Removed  with 

X^g  of  Lamb  boiled^  Loin 
fried,  and  Spinach, 


A  Sou  ties  of 

Fowl  and 
Muahroomft. 


A  Fillet  of  Pork 

larded,  ciazed, 

and  Sofrel  Sauce. 


A  raised 

Pie  a  la 

'ranii^oise. 


A  Goose. 


A  rnised 
Pie  with 
Pigeons. 


wo  Sweetbreads 
rded.  vlazed,  & 
Toniata  Sai|ce. 


Fricassee  of 

Rabbits  and 

Onions. 


SECOND  COURSJE. 


Six  Snipes. 


Salsifie,  fried. 


Eggs  k  la  Poalet. 


•i 


4  Charlotte 


Jelly. 


Rajtifie 
Pudding. 


Fi>h, 

Removed  with  . 

Ribs  of  Beef^  rolled. 


Maccaroni. 


A  Pheasant. 


408 


1 


DECEMBER  4.   :No::889.    BILL  OF  FARE. 


flRST  COURSE. 

■ 

Mock  Turtle^ 

.  Removed  with 
A  Turkey^  with  Chesnuts  xmd\^ 
Sausages. 


!■■   ■<> 


Beef  Palates 

iotced  and 

rotted,  aiid  a 

RagoAt. 


Semels^and 
Piquant  Sauce. 


A  Chine 
of  Lamb. 


A  Neck  of 
Yeniaon. 


A  Sucking 

Pig. 


Neirt'sTofigtte 

in  Cutlets  and  ' 

BarbefiirB. 


Two  Partridges 
and  Stvojs. 


Fish, 

Bwniored  with 
AJjoinof  Veal. 


SECOND  CeURSE. 


Tvoh  Wild  Duck9. 


1 1 1  iiii  ■  I 


ii  I  ■«  II 


Red  Cabbage 
a  I'AUemauciv. 


Broiled 
Musbrooms. 


Bamsori 
Tourtc. 


Cliantilly 
Basket 


Apple  Fie. 


I 


Brocoll' 
a  la  Flamand. 


BeetjRoot  and 
Sharp  Sauce. 


Three  fVqpdeoeks. 


DECEMBER  5.    No.  340.    BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Soup  JuUeriy 

Kemuved  with 

^    A  Haunch  of  Venison. 

I    ■    -    -         -  **     ■   -       .... 


Snipes 
artar. 


Snip 
alaxa 


^roiled  Fowl  and 
Mushrooms. 


Pillet 
of  Veal. 


A  raised 

Pie,  with 

Purtridges. 


Tongue, 
•garnished 
and  glazed. 


j     Afatelot  of 
Rabbit. 


Rlutton  Cutlets 

^la'm  broiled, and 

Tomata  Sauce. 


Fish, 
Removed  i^ith 

A~Rump  qf  Bgef? j 


SECOND  COURSE. 

*  - 

JP'our  VVoodcocks. 


Spinach  and 
Croutons. 


'Xnnict. 


Gtager 
Souffle. 


Wax  Ba&ket 

with 

CrajHih. 


Gateaa 

Millefleii. 


Sliced  Brawn. 


Ham  and  Tout* 


Four  Plovers. 


409 
DECEMBERS.    No.34i.    BirX  OF  FARE. 


■  n^ 


FIRST  COURSE. 


A  Tureen  of  tlodge  Podge^ 

Removed  with  a 

Loin  of  real  a  la  BeshemelL 


TUreti  Ridges 
of  Fowl  larded, 
and  an  Emiiice. 


Petit  P^i&i, 


.Venwon  p^^ 

and  Koutf. 


A  Goose. 


Lamb  CiUlets 

and 
Sauce  Pi(|aant. 


Grenadines  of 

Duck  and 

OIjvcs. 


Fitk, 

Kemored  with 

J.  Chine  of  Mutton, 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Four  Plovers* 


Artichoke 
Bottents 
in  Satice. 


Brocoli. 


Ddmson 
P.e, 


Jelly 
Mdrbre. 


Apple  rttd 
Bari)erry 
'    Pie. 


Stewed  Celarjr. 


SitUific, 
in  Sauce. 


Hare. 


PETIT  PATES  OF  CHICKEN  AND  HAM. 


Mince  ham  and  cliickens,  an  equal  quantity  of  each; 
fuit  them 
1  few 


»in  into  hot  beshemell ;  squeeze  a  little  lennion  juice, 
drops  of  c-ialot  vinegar,  and  till  the  i)at6g« 


DECEMBER?.    N».34«.    BltJL  O^  FARB- 


«r 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Pea  Seupy 

Removed  with 

A  Fillet  of  Veal. 


A  Civet 
of  Hare. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


A  PheofianU 


Beerf  Steaks  and 
Oyster  Sauce.  I 


Fillets  of 
Sole  a  la 
Italieiine. 


.ATopf|ae»gar- 

ni»bed«  glazed » 

and  Greens. 


Two 
Gbickens 

ila 
Reine. 


Spinach  and 
Poached  Eggs. 


MusiuQOias. 


iPork  Cutlets  and 
iRober;Sauce. 


Teuderones  of 

l^amhiand 

Ifushrooms. 


Fish^ 
Removed  with 

A  Les  of  Mutton^  roasted.  \ 


Charlotte. 


j0Uy. 


i     ■< 


I>aiiol«s. 


]dacc»ioni. 


lEsoalopcd 


Two  Rabbits. 


DECEMBER  8.    No.  345.    BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Soup  a  la  Reine^ 

Removed  with 

A  Muunt]b43f  JKesdsatL. 


Pigs*  Feet  and 
Eari<. 


»■■  ■  II  I  ■     I.' 


Tenderones  of 
Veal  and 
TruiHes. 


SECOND  COURSE. 

Four  Partridges. 


A  Turkey 

i^esii 

&c. 


i^   ni     .    .         petit  .„.„wv^> 

Greens. 


Hum 
.braised  1 


•  !•«■■■• 


Harricot  of 
Mutton. 


'•f^r^—^-^rmr^"^ 


Risoles. 


Removed  with 

A  Sirloin  of  Beef. 


Ragodt  Mell6. 


■^■■^ 


Brocoli  and 
Italian  Saace. 


PasUy. 


ATrifie. 


i^lP  »    I     I  S^^^y^'^^-^F-^^ 


Putiy. 


m  I  I      < I   " 


Stewed  Celery. 


■.^^^.w- 


Foudoc. 


Txco  Ducks. 


,t»tmi^^mm,m^ 


411 


DECEMBER  9.    No.  344.    BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 
A  Tureen  «f  0»  Rumpt^ 

RemoTed  with 

A  Loin  of  Veal 
d  la  BeshemelL 


t  *    111 


Blaiiqoet  of 

Torkcjrand 

Moshroomt. 


Three 

Partridges 
ji'l8.Besheg]jeI[. 


I  JI.U-IJ- J  ■  ..■■    ^I-IJ- 


'wo  boiled 

I'owls,  and 

Celery 


A  Neck 

ftf 
Venison. 


A  Salt 

Bacon 

Chine,  and 


A  Timbiil  of 
Maeearoni* 


Moreau 
a  la  Crime* 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Threi  fjTpoficocki. 


Picked  Crab. 


lOmelet  Souffle. 


Small 

SavAj 

iCaket. 


Jellj 
au  Marbre. 


Mashroom 
Fhtten. 


Spinfich 
and  Croutons. 


pressed 
i^obster. 


MMHMMMMWtaa^. 


Removed  with 

jt  Chine  of  Mutton* 


Two  Widgeons. 


SMALL  SAVOY  CAKES, 

Are  made  in  the  same  manner  as  the  large  ones  (see 
^pendix);  bake  them  in  tartlet  pans;  butter,- floury  and 
IBT  them,  the  same  as  large  moulds ;  «  feW  minutes 
il  bake  them. 


T  2 


413 


DECEMBER  10,  ;  No.  S43.    BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Italian  Soup^ 

Kemoved  with 

A  Leg  of  Lamb  boiledy 
Loin  fritd. 


Htshed 
Venison, 


White  CoUops. 


A  raiser] 
Pie,  wiih 
Pigeons* 


A  Goose'. 


A  Fillet  of 
Veal. 


Fricassee  of 

Rabbit 
anil  Ouiuns. 


Salroie  of 
Widgeon, 


Rpinoved  with 

Roast  Beef. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Larks. 


Broeoli. 


Spinach  in 
Boxes. 


Cheeso' 
Cakes. . 


Blanc 
Mange. 


Orange 
TouTie. 


Mushrooms 
in  Boxes. 


Fat  Titers, 
a  la  Brocbe. 


A  Pheasant, 


'413 


DECEMBIiU  11-   No.  346.    BILt  OF  FARE, 


FIRST  COURSE. 

Soup  Cressey^ 

Removed  with 

'  A  Turkey  and  Truffles, 


Two 

Sweetbreads 

larded,  glased, 

and 
Sorrel  Sauce. 


Fillet  of  Pork 

glazed,  and 

Sauce  Rober. 


Brisket  of 

Stewed 

Beef  stewed 

Venison 

glazed,  and 

and 

Tomata 

Harricot 

Sauce. 

Uwolii. 

Neck  of 

Muiton 

braided, 

glased,  and 

a  Pur^e  ol 

Roots. 


Two 

Partridges 

&  la  Perigord. 


A  Fowl 

d  la  Dan  be, 

Urdedt  lilazed, 

and  ai)  Euiince. 


Fishy 

^Removed  with 

A  Loin  of  Feal. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Two  Widgeons* 


Beet  Root  and 
Sharp  Siiuce. 


Stewed 
Celery. 


Tx»o  Rabbits. 


PARTRIDGES  A  LA  PERIGORD. 

!Dra\v  in  the  legs  of  the  partridge  the  same  as  chicken 
r  boiling ;  fill  the  inside  with  good  farce  and  a  whole 
iffle^  tit'H  being  peeled^  but  iTOt  dressed;  and  finish  tht 
ne  as  at  page  77- 

T  3 


414 


IttCEMDER  I&  N6.S4?.   BILL  O^  TAtiB. 


Sc<^h  CttUops.  < 


FIRST  COURSE, 

Soup  SaniSf 

Removed  with 
A  Haunch  of  Venison. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


,  ,  Mutton  Cutlets 


tt  Tomilta  Sduee. 


Six  Snipes* 


AM. 


Truffles. 


A  Fondue. 


of  liSinb. 


A  Cliine       Fciif      teg  of  Pork 


VMS. 


alaBoisseau 


■  ■■ua  lim      It 


CoiBp6M  of 
Pigeons  and 
Mushrooms. 


lit  I-  III 


Poolet 
a  !a  I>ttch«sse. 


Fisbj 

.    Keraored  with 

Ribs  of  Beefy  rolUdr     \ 


Smafl 
Pastry. 


au  Marhre. 


Rice 
Written. 


-»*i 


1>  I 


Artichoke 
Bottoms,  fried. 


^•^mt^ 


Picrked  CnCb. 


A  Pheasant. 


DECEMBER  13.    N«.  S48.   BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIR&T  COURSE. 

Rice  Soup^ 

Removed  with 

A  Loin  of  VeaJ. 


Ox  Rom]^  and 

Savons* 


Votereni  «f 
Fish. 


-"T* 


. 


SECOND  COURSE. 
rFour  Partridges. 


^»«T*— fct  ■■  « 


H  ■        » 


A  Leg  of 

Lambboiloo 


ftia  Reine, 

garnished 

wkhR»oe»U 


Ham 


and  Sauce  ,    braised,    ;  Chick 


^lHxed,  and 
Greens. 


Two 


tens 


alaReiue 


A  Case,  #ith  « 
^  Civet  of  Uare. 


AFittetofPofk 

g taxed,  and 
Siuce  Rober, 


Fishj 

Removed  with 
A  Chine  of  Mtitton. 


Sscaioped 
Cyst^rtf. 


Safslfie. 


-^  "•^"  1'     '      -   -y    -----  n 


Compdttf  of 
Pippins. 


CbanriN; 
0ask<  t. 


Coropdte 
of  Pfenrs. 


■A^l^iAnMa 


Stewed  l^dive. 


Crajfi^ 


J  Hmre. 


4IS 


D£Ci:M^£R  14.   No.  d49t   BILL  Of  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Vermicelli  Soupy 

Removed  with 

A  Brisket' of  Beef y^  stewedy 

'  and  Roots* 


scooped  Potatoes 


Mdretca 
&  la  Cr^e. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


•  1 


Three  Wobtkodk*. 


Fried  Eggt. 


9ptti<(cn  and 
Croutous* 


N<ck  of 
VeiMen. 


Arais«dFie,f 
;  filled  with 
]*artridge». 


>  A  Leg  of 
L«inb  find 

T6RMI4A' 

Suoc9* 


Tenderones 

o£  Veal 
li  la  Poolet. 


Sheepi'  Bomps 
aad  Kidnies. 


JM- 


A  Ptondue. 


Apple  and 
Pie. 


Riea 
Fntxers. 


Brocoli 
a  la.  Jitalicnne. 


Fish^ 

Kemoved  witn 

J  FUlei  of  VeaL 


'two>Fowli» 


-  «/ 


416 


IJECEMBER  15.    No.  S50.    BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Giblet  Soup  a  la  Tortue, 

Removed  with 

A  Haunch  of  Venison. 


if'illetsof  Sarraon 
and  Capers. 


Petit  Vkxis. 


A  Torkejr 

boiled,  and 

Celerj  and 

Oyster 

Sauce. 


Chartreuse. 


A  Salt 
Bacoa 

Chine* 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Four  Partridges. 


Brawn. ' 


Mushrooms. 


/   , 


Lamb  Cutlets  and 
Sauce  Piquant. 


M ateiot  of 
Rabbit. 


Fi$h^ 

Removed  with 

Roast  Beef. 


Rati  fie 
Puddings. 


JeHy 
iu  Marbrc 


Gatcm 

Mdieao«i: 


Salstfie 
in  Sauce. 


Picked  Grab. 


Tw  Wild  Ducks. 


417 


DECEiMDEU  16.    No.  351.    BILL  OF  FAER. 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Soup  Sani4* 

Removed  with 

ui  Hani  braised^  glazed^ 

uid  Oreent. 


SECOxND  COUlil^E. 


Beef  Palates 
rolled ,  and  a 
,  Ragodc. 


Blnnquet  of 

Turkey 
and  TrufHes. 


CalvM?' 

bead 
haabed. 

Artd 
grilled. 


Two  boiled 

fowls,  and 

Cefery 

SuuCe. 


T»vo  Necks 
of  Lamb  a  la 
icheveaux  de 
frieze,Urded, 

and  Sauce 
Piquant. 


A  Souties  of 
Sweetbread. 


Compdte  of 
Pigeoni. 


Removed  with 

A  Fillet  of  VeaU 


A  Pheasant* 


"      Maccaroni. 


Ragodt  Me  116.  ' 


Brocoii 
a  la  Crdme. 


A  Hare. 


t4 


418 


DECEMBER  l?.    Nor  35^.   BILL  OF  FARE. 


«««»«i)hB>^pa 


■I  III      — « 


FIRST  COURSE. 


\ 


Tureen  of  Mutton  and  Broth 

Removed  with 

A  Leg  of  Pork  a  la  Boisseau* 


A  Dock 
a  ta  ItaJieiine. 


Sweetbreai^s 
.  larded,  and 
Sorrel  Saace. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Three  Teai. 


A  Fillet 
of  VeaJ. 


A  raMedPic> 
with  Mutton 
6l.  potatoes. 


A  Neck  of 

Veni&On, 

reaated? 


Pigeons  larded, 

and  Asparagus 

Peas, 


A  itoulard  of 

Mutton,  and 

Toroata  Sance, 


Ham  and' 
Toast. 


Spinacht 
in  Boxes. 


««••■ 


A  Charlotte      Jelij. 


Cake. 


Mosbrvomsy 
in  Boxes. 


Artichoke 
^Bottom,  fried. 


Fishy 

Removed  with 

Ribs  of  Beef  J  rolled* 


Four  Ploveri, 


\ 

% 


DECEMBER  18.    No^  353.    BILL  OP  FARK 


FIRST  COURSE. 

Soup  Cresseg^ 

Hernoted  witH 

StemdBeef  OttdShrricot 
R&oU% 


Petit  PSU4S. 


■**id»M««i«M4iMi 


SECOND  COtmSE. 


I    . 


J 

^ 
I 


Sis  Sniper* 


WliiMlii      II      t     »l     I      m>*<**^>'m,^»,-if<, 


Pork  Cutlets 

and  mubed 

Potatoes. 


Mvsliwomi. 


>*■*■ 


•*•  ^ 


SttwtdJSadiit, 


<Mtmmmtf»mAm0mmm^m^ 


J  . 


Ham, 

braised, 

glazed,  and 

Coilir. 


Three 
Chickens 

a' la 
Reine. 


A  Leg  of 

Lamb  and 

fomata 

Sauce. 


•^m^mmam^mt^mi^m^^tm 


^mm^ 


Veal  Olives  and 
Sance  Piquant. 


Riseles. 


Fisk, 

Remoi^d  with 
ji'  Chine  of  MuHen. 


Cederata 
Cream. 


i<  ■•« 


»r  iin~t  r  j^ifaM— < 


Gateau 
MUlefleuA 


JoHy. 


Mft4»_<ta>MiAwi^ 


Salsifie* 
iti  Sauce. 


i    11         ■    MiiW 


Maccaroni, 


1*1  I 


A  Bare, 


II 


i»n    I    I     ^tm^—^t**ta*i-*itm'l>lkMi 


420 

December  ig.  n©.  354.  bill  op  fare< 


flKSr  GOURSli. 

'  «   ' 

Soup  a  Uk  Reiney 

'Removed  with  FiSH,  removed  will 

A  Haunch  of  Venison. 


J 


Petit  Pa'^Se 


Fillet  of  Pork 
'  lardedi  glazed 
aad  Sauce  R(>b«r 


A  Ham  braised, 

glaxed#  and  , 
Green«. 


-TT-T-»- 


Small  Mattoii 
Pic», 


SECOND  ecu  USB. 


Four  Woodciock9* 


Fncandeau 

and  . 
Sorjel  Sauce. 


I  I{4ieiusk  Cream. 


Leg  of  Lpnib 

boiled,  and  Sauce 

a  la  Reine. 


Spinach » 
in  Boxes. 


. 


Soup,  ; 

removed 


w 


Pie,  with 

Vca!  and 

Ham,  &c. 


Soup, , 
removed 
with  Fish, 
remoyed 
(Ttth  a  raided 
Pie,  with 
Venison. 


A  TnTk^y 
boiled,  and 
Ouster  Sauce. 


:.    Two  Babbits 
a  la  Oporto, 
larded^  glazed. 
^TomataSaoce. 


Small  Mutton 
Pies. 


t 


Fillet  of  Veal. 


Apricot  Tartlets. 


Jeliy 
an  Marbrr. 


Fondues  in 
Caaet. 


■*— 


Mince  Piet. 


RagoAt  Mell4. 


Escalloped 
Ojsten. 


TweWe 
Larks. 


—i-^i 


Fillet  of  Beef 

larded,  glazed, 

and  Spanish 

Onions,  and  ditto 

Sauce. 


Petit  Vk\U. 


Anchovy  Toast, 


Mince  Pies. 


Giblei  Soup^  a  la  Tortue^ 

removed  wiih  FISH,  removed  witl- 

A  Sirloin  of  Beef.        I 


Fondues  in 
Cases. 


Orange  Jelly. 


MushroomC 


Barlierrj 
Tartleti. 


Spinach. 
in  Boxes. 


CedermtaCreaoL 


2'tto  PheasantSf 

one  larded. 


431 


DECEMBER  flO.    No,  355.   FILL  OF  FARJP. 


FIRST  COURSE. 


m    m      ^* 


Soup  a  la  Flamondj 

Removed  with  FISH, 
Rf  mored  with 

J  Haunch  of  Venison* 


Petit  P4l^s. 


Thrre  Chickens 
a  )&  Heine. 


Beef  Olive?  and 
scooped  Potatoes 


White  Collpps, 


SECOND  COURSE. 


■*"»^i^ 


Four  Partridges. 


"  Neck  of 
Venisou. 


A  Duck 
a  la  ItuUfnne. 


Soup, 

removed 

ivith  Fish, 

renioTcd 

with  a  Rump 

of  Beef  a 

la  Mantua. 


!  Frame.  ; 


Soup, 

rarooved 

with  Fish, 

removed 

with  a  Hani 

braised,  &cc. 

and  Greens. 


A  Oum  Paste 

Ba»k«t  of 

Meringues* 


French  Beans. 


A  Roulard  of 

Mutton  and 

Tomata  Sauce. 


Neat's  Tongue 
and  Greens. 


A  Bianquet  of 

Turkey  and 

TruflBes. 


Civet  of  Hare. 


Two  Fowls  and 
Celery  Sauce. 


Risoles, 
ill  Paste^ 


Soupj 

RemoTcd-with  FISH, 
Removed  with 

ji  Loin  of  Veal. 


Gooseberry  Tart. 


MaccaroDi. 


.11 


Saroy  Cake. 


Afpara£:us. 


Mince  Pies. 


Small  Oiuelets. 


V  Pheasant 


<  Frame.} 
I  I 


All  Omelet. 


Mince  Pies. 


AsparagBS. 


Savov  Cake. 


Truf&es. 


Apple  Tart.    , 


French  Beans. 


Basket  of 

Pastry. 


A  Hare* 


42<t 


BECEMBERei.    No.ssff.    BILL  OF  PARR 


FIRST  COURSE. 
Soup  a  la  Reine^ 

Removed  with  FLSH,  remoTed  with 

A  Rump  of  Beef  J 
d  la  Daube^  and  Cabbage. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Two  Pheasaniiy  one  larded. 


\  Blade-bone  of 

PorViiaBroche, 

and  maihed 

Potatoes. 


fwoSweetbreadi 
Urded,  glased,  & 
Asparagus  Peas. 


Fillets  of  Mutton 
aiid  Cucumber. 


Small  Motton 
Pies. 


Apple  Pie. 


tillet  of  Beef 

larded*  and 

Spanish  Sailce. 


Fricassee  of 
Chicken. 


Soup, re- 
moved with 
aMatelfttol    f"**^^ 

Tentfb,  re-     |Fnme.|, 
niaved  with    i,^.#i^i 

a  Fillet  of  ''^ 
^'    Veak 


Soup,  re 
moved  with 
a  large  Pike 

baked,  re- 
moved with 
a  Haanch  oi 
'  Venison, 


Fricassea  of 

Rabbit  and 

Onions» 


i>*«««MUM*i.a_«i 


A  Duck  boDed» 

forced,  lardedy^ 

glarodt  AAd 

CHives. 


Beef  Gallops. 


Spinach  and 
Crouton., 


Gatrau 

Milleflenr. 


.Small  Puddings. 


Smoked  Salinon 
in  a  Cast. 


French  Beans. 


Hf  ince  Pics. 


AFmadM. 


Twelve 
Larks. 


r 


«l  <     ■■    IfiMJU^j 


Petit  Pftt6s. 


L»mb  Cutlets  t 
lartled,  breast 
roiledy  glazedj  & 
Asparagus  Peas. 


VealOlives  and 
Sauce  Fiqnant. 


Mince  Pies. 


i^iAM>MaBMtda 


Asparagos. 


Gaieaa 

Miliefleur. 


Mock  Turtle^ 

Removed  w)th  FISH,  removed  with 

A  Chine  of  Mutton* 


Small  Foddings. 


Bffocoli. 


BadisottFSe. 


■*   ii 


Two  JViid  Bucks. 


433 

DECEMBER  fi«.    No.S57.    BlVLOVtAfLtL 


MhAiMMMiHriSidtaiiiM 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Soup  and  Bouilliey 

Reraored.with  FISH^ 
ReiDo«>ed  witl^ 

A  Haunch  of  Venison* 


SoBtiesof  Fowl 
and  MushrooBiStf 


• 


Soap,  re- 
moved with 

Fwh,  f e- 
moved  witb 

a  Leg  of 

Lamb 
ftUReine. 


A  Spare  Rib 
of  Pork. 


A  Salmies  of 

Partridge,  in  a 

Case. 


LamB  Cutlets  & 
Cuetiitiftefdatlce. 


Neck  of  Veal 
I  la  Besbtfmell. 


A  Civet  of  Hare 
ID  a  Case* 


}  Frame.  4 


Soap 
removed 

with  Fiih, 
removed 

with  three 
Chicken^ 

&  la  Reiner. 


«MahMflBW»MM>sww«A 


SECOND  COURSE. 


i«idk>ki^ 


Two  fVM  Duck$. 


A  Chantilly 
Basket. 


M«i8bteoiit&« 


Mince  Fies.    ' 


Ragoflt  MeU4. 


Jelly 


■M.*. 


Aspaingus. 


Cheese  Cakes. 


Maccaroiu, 


^m^amm^aa 


SalmiestffWild 
Duck»  in  aCase 


•^•^mmm^tmitm 


Tofig«ie, 

^rnisbed,  glased 

and  GreenSk 


Riaoles  fried 
iiirPaater 


i*«taiMa*MkMM 


Sftlniei  of 

Pheasant  in 

a  Case. 


■*•*« 


AGooatfr 


IMtoceavoni. 


Mk^^^ataMiArfllAdM.^.* 


Apricot  Tartlefa. 


^«<.4MMMMiMI». 


Skmties  of 


Soup  Cresse^y^ 

m#«ioved  «Kh  mw. 

Removed  with 

Roast  Beef* 


.•      1  f  M 


French  Beans. 


Italian  Cream. 


)  Rogo^  SCelle. 


i 


ta.itaa.rfi^ 


Mince  Pies. 


- 


Artichoke 
Bottoms. 


.Chantiily  Cake.. 

1 1     II  ■  i 


AHwe^ 


424 


fepeCMRER  33.    No.  359.    BILL  OF  FARR. 

'     -^-^..»— — ^— -^— ^— —  ^    — |g^ 


FIRST  COURSE. 

-*•  - 

Soup  a  la  Reine, 

Rtnioved  with  FlSil, 
Ksfiuoved  with 

-4  Haunch  of  Venison. 


I 


SECOxVD  COURSE. 


Charir^use. 


Tw«>  Chickens 
^  ia  Hetii«. 


Pricandeau 

glazed,  and 

Sorrel  Sauce. 


Timbali  of 
Mdccaroni. 


Four  Plovers, 


Partridges  and 
SaTo^s. 


Neck  of  Muttot) 

larded,  glaaed, 

and  Endive. 


-  *ii  *• 


A  Gutti  Paste 

Basket  ol  Pastry. 


Spinach  and 
Croutons. 


Orange  Toorie. 


A  Wax  Baska 
wiib  Prawm. 


French  Beans. 


Miiice  Pies. 


Sou  Pi  re- 
moved witb 

F»sh,  re- 
moved witb 

a  Bucon  ■ 
Chine,  and 

Greens. 


Mu8hrot)ms 
in  Boxes. 


Soup,  re- 
moved with 

Fish,  re- 
inovetl  withj\  Pheasant, 
a  FiJiet  of 
Veal. 


Ojratert 
in  Boxes. 


A  Filleted  beef 

larded,  glaaed* 

&.  Spanish  Sauce. 


Compdte  of 
Pigeons  and 
Itfualtrooins, 


A  Grenatte. 


Sweetbreads 
larded^  glazed,  & 
Asparagus  Peas 


A  Leg  of  Lamb 

boiled, and  Sauce 

i  la  Hcin«. 


A  Chartreuse. 


Three 
Teal. 


Oysters  ia 
Boxes, 


Mince  Pie». 


MuibiooiBs 
in  Boxea.. 


Apricot  Tmirte. 


AsperagBs. 


Uock  Turtle 

B«meved  #ith  FISH, 
I(^nio«ed  with 

A  Chine  of  Mutton, 


A  Wax  Basket 
with  Crawfish.  I 


Brocoli. 


Gam  Paste 

BaaketofPaaiij. 


two  Wild  Ducks. 


1 


435 
DECEMBER  24.    No.  359.    BILL  OF  FARE. 


FIRST  COURSE. 
Maccaroni  Soup^ 

Rorooved  with  FlS{f, 
Removed  with 

A  Ham  braised^  glazedj 
and  Greem. 

SECOND  COURSE. 

• 

Foitr  Woodcockt. 

Fillets  of  Salmon 
and  Capers. 

Pork  Cutlets 
and  Sauce  Rober 

Rhenish  Cream. 

Jellj  au  Marbre. 

Spinach  in 
Boxes. 

Fondues  in 
Cases. 

h.  Rump  of  Veal 
a  In  Daube,  and 

Neck  of 
Venison. 

Sorrel  Sauce. 

Gooseberry  Tart 

'Mince  Pies. 

i  Volerent,  with 

A  low  raised  Pie, 

with  Motton 

and  Potatoes. 

. 

a  Sutttiesof 
Rabbit. 

French  Beans. 

Brocoli. 

1 

Soyp*.  rcr 
Dored  with 

Fish,  re- 
•ored  with 
a  Chine  ol' 

Mutton. 

^Frame.J 
»            1 

Sottpt  re- 

inored  with 

Fish,  re- 

moired  with 

a  Fillet  uf 

Veal. 

.4  Pheasant. 

)  Frame.? 

S           \ 

Larks. 

« 

1 

A  small  raised 

Pie,  with 
Beefsteaks. 

?kt^  Good^veau. 

Stewed 
£ndire. 

Aspvagut. 

Mince  Pies. 

Uamson  Touftc. 

A  Hare  boned, 

forced,  braised, 

&c. 

A  Goose. 

^ 

Smoked  Salmon 
iq  a  Case. 

Moslirooms  in 
Boxes. 

* 

Risolcs. 

Malelot  of  Tench 
and  Eels. 

Orange  Jell^. 

Italian  Cream. 

Soup 
liumt 

E 

»  ana 

>vtd 
[.emuv 

loavt 

\Boi 

with  I 

ed  wi 

Uee 

lillie^ 

•ISH, 

th 

r. 

Hare. 

42« 
XnECCMBER  23.    No  360.    BItL  C»? 


FIRST  COURSE. 
Soup  Santij 

Removed  with  ftSB^  removed  with 
A  Turketfj  roasted. 


Three  Cbickei^ 
boiledy  and- Sauce 
a  la  Reine. 


Seroelfl  and 
Fbivrade  Sauce. 


Three  SwevC- 

breads  landed} 

glased,  aiid 

AsparagQs  Peas. 


■**• 


Beef  Collops 
A  laTbrtuer 
and  TrafBes. 


A  Fowl 

k  J»  Banbe 

larded,,  and 

Muihrooros. 


A  Leg  of  Lamb 

and 
.  Toroata  Sauce. 


Soop,  re* 
moved  with 

Fithj^  re- 
moved with 

a  Bacon 
Chine^ 

roasted. 


9oup»  re- 
moved with 

Fish,  re- 
moved will 
a  Haunch  of 

Yeniioii. 


A  Neat'a  Tongor 
.  gla«ed»  &C.  and 
Grtena. 


Two  Rabits  a  la 

Oporto  l»rdtfd, 

&  Sorrel  Sauce. 


A  Soutietof 
Mutton  and 
Cucumber. 


Three  Chickens 

and 
Celerjr  Sauce. 


OrenarKnes  and 
X^dive, 


SECOND  COURSE. 
Pour  Partridges. 


MMlAilMa^^kMaMkMta 


Caramel  1  Batkot 
witfe  Pastrj. 


Erocoli  with 
Brown  Sauce. 


Cheese  Cakesr 


•^m^ 


Spinaidi  and 
Croutons* 


Chantillj 
JDaaket* 


Artichokes  and 
White  SauM. 


Kiaec  Pica. 


French  Betas. 


«*i*a 


SixSttipes* 


i^^BM.^ 


r — J 

fPnaaa.1 

i       ! 


•^■—t 


Aspoftgui. 


Petit  Pat^s. 


Miuce  Pies. 


Ragout 
Meli6. 


GibUt  Soup  a  ia  Toriue^ 

Removed  witE  FISIf,  removed  with 

A  Sirloin  of  Beef, 


Vf  oa  R  till  v  v^aae. 


KedCabUge 
&  la  AJfcmand. 


ApVicot  Towte. 


Maakrooms 
broiled. 


A 


Carareell  Basket 
of  Meringiiea. 


Two  Guinea  Fomlsy  one 
Imrded. 


437 


BECEMBER^.  No.36h   BILL  OF  FARE. 


PlttSt  coxmsE. 

Soup  i  hL  Reku^ 

BetDoved  with  FISH, 
Itenioved  witir 

A  Haunch  &f  Venif&n* 


tatmhfyt)et»6c 
CacumberSaacet 


joored  with 

Fith,remoT« 

e'<f  with  a 

Hai»  llrais- 

ed»  glased  i> 


Neck  ofyeal 
a  la  Besheioell. 


«     I 


A  Somidi  of 
Plieassiit. 


Tenderones  of 
Veal  and  TroffieM 


Leg  •(  Fork 
4  hi  Boitsead. 


QuenaU 
a  la  ttaPienne. 


•*i«' 


f  Frama.  | 


:  8ovp»  re* 

iDorew'  with 

<«>i«»i«>««i£    rishf  f oiiiov* 

•d  with  a 

Tarkey  boil' 

d,&djster 

'  end  C^rry 

Sance. 


ASoari^ofRab 
brt  2c  MuihrooiDft 


Chine  of  lanib 
oc  Sauce  k  i^jvatti 


Patilet 
a  la  Dttchesae. 


Salmia  of 
Woodcocks. 


Britf&etofBeef 

ttewedf  and 
Harricot  Roots. 


Calf's  Feet 
aa  Gr&tin. 


Soup  ^antSy 
Removed  with  FISH, 

Removed,  with 
A  Sirloin  of  Beef* 


■•w 


§ECON&  COURSE. 


Six  QuwXs. 


Jelly  aa  Marbre; 


Stewed  Peas. 


■^—.iw..^ 


Mince  Pies. 


Ham  and 
poached  Itggs. 


A  Trifle. 


Asparagus. 


(jooseberr J  Tarf^ 


Atlets  of 
Ojstei^. 


Two 
Wo^dcocksi 


V 


4 


■•—4 


Three  T«alL 


Cray-fish 


ray-fish 
Gratin* 


Apple  aod 
.  Barberry  Tart. 


French  Beaila 
a  la  CrioM. 


Chantilly  Cake; 


Ragt»flt  Mtfi€, 


«*  »  1^ 


Bfmce  Pies; 


Brocoli  and 
Brown  Sauce. 


Italian  Cream. 


Fowr  Pariridgen 


^*Z8 


DECEMBER  til    No.  362.   BILL  OF  FARE. 

FIRST  COURSE.  SECOND  COUllSE. 

Soup^ 
Removed  with  ♦«  4J>H,  removed  with  t 
Rump  of  Beef  a  la  Mantua. 

— ""^■"— ^— ^— ^^^ ■ —  .^ 


Crockets. 


"T~5 


Neck  of  Veal 
a  la  !Be&hemeli. 


Three  Ridges 
of  Fowl  Jardtfd. 
and  an  Einince. 


Petit  PAie». 


Three  Chickens 
a  la  Reine. 


AS^Hre-rib  of 
Pork. 


Fillet  of  Beef 

larded,  glazed, 

h  Spanish  Sauce. 


one  iiirded. 


Gnm  Paste 
Baikkel  of  Pastrj 


Haunch  of 
Venison. 


SoHp,  re- 
moved with 
Fish,  remov 

•d  with  a 
Raised  Pie 
of  Venison. 


)  rnkme.f 


French  Beans. 


Aprieut  Tartlets. 


Chantill^Bukfti 


Soup,  re< 
moved  with 
Fish,  rem©  T.- 

ed  with  a 

Raised  Pi«3 

alaFran^oi* 


Ghme  of  Lamb.  I 


A  Duck  boned, 

forced,  l«rded, 

and  Olives. 


A  Goose. 


Ced<»ri»»«  Crea»n. 


Artichoke 

Bottoms  and 

Italian  Sauce. 


Asparagus. 


■I 


■I 


Mince  PSes.    ! 


Ra^redt       [ 


-t    I 


Jo  J  It  mn  Marhf* 


Three  Chickens 
Si  Ctler^  .Sauce. 


Prtit    Pk  ^9. 


Sweetbreads 

Inrded^  giaied, 

(Sc  AsparagosPe3^ 


N*ck  of  Mutton 

brntscd,  pl«zed, 

St  Tomate  Saucf . 


PisoJes. 


Three 

TeaJ. 


Orange  Jcilj.    [ 


Mushropaia. 


Mince  Pies. 


Asparagus. 


Rhenish 


'  1 


Stewed  Celerv. 


Mock  I'urtle^ 
Removed  with  FISH,  removed  with  I 

I A  Loin  of  Veal, 


Cbantal^  Cake. 


Wax  Basket 
of  Prawns. 


Hare, 


4d9. 


DECEMBER  28.    No.S63.     BILL  OF  FARE. 


f  IBS!  GUURSK. 

Smtpt 
emoved  with  ¥4SH,  removed  with 
J  Haunch  of  VenUen. 


Rlsolet. 


IThtte  CoUopt 
d  Muthrooms. 


ifo  Partridges 
tnd  Saroyt. 


I  Chartreuse. 


feck  of  Foal 

ta  BeshrnelT. 


Matelot 
•f  Tench. 


Ice  of  Mutt<Mi 
Pomata  Sauce. 


Petit  PAt^i. 


Calf's  Ears  forced, 
and  an  Boince. 


Two  Chickens 
ii  la  Heine. 


A  Timball 
of  Mfiocaroni. 


Haunch  of  Lamb 
and  Ciiriimbera. 


Morpau 
\  la  C'r£me. 


M  Oon»e. 


Sonp, 
lOved  vnxh 
i,  removed 
1  a  Rump 
f   Br?f 
Mantua, 
I  Spanish 
Jawce. 


S  Frame.  | 


8oup, 
remo?«d  with 
Fish,  removed 
with  a  Ham 
brai««d,  glar- 
ed, &  Cuulis. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


F9ur  fF^Hh^qki. 


Caramell  Basket 
of  Meringues. 


Freacli  Beans 
in  White  Sauce. 


Utnce  Pies. 


Ham  and  poached 

?*!!: 


eg  of  Pork 
la  Boisseau. 


lets  of  Sole 
a  Italienne. 


ne.ef  Ijamli', 


i  TimlKtIl 
AAaccarnni. 


?miC 


tens 
ia  bciue. 


Soutje  of 
etbrend  and 
ushrooTOs. 


tit  P&t^s. 


Neck  of  Venison 
stewed,  &  Hoots. 


Fillets  of  Saksion 
and  Capers. 


Brm»t  of  Vt;al 
Ragoftt. 


Chartreuse. 


Two  Partridges 
and  tJavov. 


r 


'  lendvrones  of 

Lamb  and 
^  Asparaf^us  Peas. 


Crorkets. 


Rice  Fritters. 


Artichoke  Bottome 
and  Saacf. 


Italian  Cream* 


Brawn  in  Aspic. 


Caffiniell  Basket 
of  Pastry. 


Asparaftts. 


Mince  lies. 


Ragoiit  Melld. 


Mushroom  Friiters 


BrocoH. 


J  elly  an  Wcrbre. 


Hart  Cake. 


Two 

Plteaeants, 

one  larded. 


4  Frame.  S 

}.•».•>••»  .All 


Two- 
Wild  J>ocka. 


Lobstej-  Cake. 


Orange  J  elly. 


Brecoii  &  &auce. 


Ragoftt  Mell^. 


Mince  Pies. 


Asparaetis. 


Caramell  Basket 
of  Pastry. 


'moved  with  F1«H,  Removed  with 
^/  S/rloin  of  Beef, 


Brawn  in  Asi>ir. 


Rhenidi  Cream. 


Ai  tichokf  Bottom; 
and  Sauce. 


Ham  and  peached 

Eggs. 


Mince  Pics. 


Fiencli  Beans. 


Caramell  Bask  t 
of  Maringues. 


Six  Partridgei, 


mi'^ 


43!» 


«9.  Na  364. '  BILT*  ©JF  f  ^RE. 


FUtCr  COURSE. 

Soup  a  im  ReinCf 
MBMvcd  with 

Fish, 

woyc^  with 

J  fftnmeh  of  Ftniicn, 


Small  Mntlov'Pitfl. 


mlct  of  B«ef  Ivd. 

fid.|lMtd»  &a|Mi>^ 

imii  SMice  MM 


tenb  Guttcu  and 
G«aiinfb»r  l«oc«. 


A  7h«»Mnt  ^ad  a  * 
Savoy. 


lUckAf  Bork. 


Soutkt  of  Bjtf* 
«tid  Ttuffloi. 


A  Loin  of  Veak 
^  la  Bcshemell. 


'SoQpt  fCllKIVCd 

iFitb,  removed  with 
a  Balaed  Pie  of 


vMHB'MPaMCQt 

apd  Goalie.    * 


ASotttlecof 
Babbit. 


.•Haoach  •«f  Lamb 

and  Tomata 

Sauce. 


TwoCbictentand 
Celery  Sauee. 


Semcic  and  Sanee 
Piquant. 


FneaQdcaa 
and  Sorrel  Sauoe. 


Petit  P&tis. 


petitPftt«s. 


ShottMorofljimb 
larded)  and 
Soml  .Simoc. 


■iii^»  ■'  iiJi*  ■  III ■ 
Sonels 

^bikaUeane. 


Tw».Gbickene 
^UXtine. 


Tniltey»Troigef. 


A  Souiite  af  Fowl 
and  MKubroomi. 


Rump  of  Beef 
^ta  Mantua. 


Soupt  lemofed 

mtb  nth,  removed 

arithaSsdsedPije 

ll  la  Amiens. 


Chine  of 
Mutton. 


A  Soutie*  of 
Wild  Dacks. 


JLSpare:^ 
of 
Pork.     • 


A  Pheaaant  and 
Cabbage. 


Lamb  Cutlets 
k  la  Italienne. 


itillet  of  Mutton 
and  Tomatt  Sauce. 


SmallifuttonPiet. 


Bemoved  with  FISH, 

lUmAvedjrith 
A  UirMn  •/ Bwf. 


■*" 


SECOND  CWBSC. 


S^  Fiwpron 


isrs. 


Cake. 


Small  <)imekia 
lb  nembh  Sauce. 


M«a 


GingferSojiiltee. 


.«»teFCd  Pea*. 


9^.9 


AmncotlWtlets. 

■  *     I    J  pj|i    ■      ■ 


Cwy^SBh^in  A»^c>. 


fMliveili 


jnjt 


BrocoH  -' 
with  •Sauce. 


Ekhteeen  .Lackc. 


French  Bean*. 


PoBdne 
in 


,  Italian 
SaUad. 


Mince  Plet. 


Aepaianm. 


Truffle  Pati. 


Atlete 
of  PabKet. 


ChantiUy  Basket. 


Qhiitotmy 


'^•^mf^^m 


"^1 


■  'm» 


A  Tiutte  fwL 


Cioadvesisi 


F^encii 
with 


^^eorPiirtridiw. 


BvocoliwMift 


ip^Caae. 


FUlm 


.Stewed 


ttotiSeKWT 


Snail 
li  Flemish 


Suvoy  Cakes. 


JS^rJkl  Sb^Mf  . 


BHWW— "aFSW!" 


iSfti 


431 
I>ECEMBER  30.    No.  SSH.    BILL  OF  7ARE. 


RRSTOOURSS. 

Btmovedwitli 
&tmoTt4with 


0ouUn  of  Fowl 
«ii^  MttthrDom*. 


^ 


of Jjunb  bGuaied 


ii  laitaiieont. 


JeefTrMftbUoc 
«nd  RooU. 


ACivitof 


A  Goote. 


1    I 


AScmtiesof  Sal* 


"••^ 


WBOomlwuliFul), 

removed  with  a 

Sucking  Kg. 


iofeau  k'k  Cr6me. 


A  .B«im  bruised, 
and  Creciu* 


and  OdIoim. 


Tbree  Partxidgos 
^Ja  Bepfaeipel. 

CrDck«&t. 


Two  CbickeiM 
&  la  Keinc. 


Lamb^s  Feet' 
and  Asparagus. 


I<ainb**Feet 
^  ^spar^gm  Peas. 


'  Two  ChifiktiU 
h.  la  Beiae. 


jn  Paste. 


Fitiet  of  PoPk 
and  Sober  Sa«oe. 


Fiicassee  of  Aabbit 
•BdOnkNM. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Fmr  Wo$ie0€ik9. 


Wax  then 
wHh  Collared  Eel. 


FrenchSeans. 


^Cheese  Cakes. 


•fiagoftt  MelM. 


Mushrooms 
in  Boxes. 


A  Fillet  of  Veal. 


A  Souties  of  Sole 
^  la  Julienne 


TemoT^withFifb, 

removed  with  a 
Haonch  of  Venison. 


A  Souties  of  Carp. 


A  Turkey 
and  L'btenntSt  &c. 


A  ClWt  "of 
Hare. 


ARuDvpofVeaUia 
Daube.j(Sorxel8auce 


.Quenels 
k  la  lialiei^ne. 


N««k  ot  Mutton 
braised,  aadEndive. 


White  jCollofn. 


SOUPy 

Removed  with  FISH, 
Removed  with  ^ 

A  Chine  of  Mutton. 


Cederata  Cream 
with  a  jjaedallJQn. 


JDzeatcilXobAter    . 
garaished  with  Aspic 


Akaond  Gu^ 
withiSBtam. 


Four  PattridjjEps. 


Sarioles. 


.Sliced  Jiraw9^r- 
ntofaed  with  Aspic 


Orange  Jetly 
Marbre. 


au 


Spinach  in  ifiox^. 


Ham  and  Toast. 


Cheese 'Cakes. 


Asppragqs. 


A  Wax  Baskel 
with  Cray-fish. 


Wax  Basket 

of  Prawns. 


Asparagus. 


Mince  Plis. 


Ham  and  Toast. 


S^nach 
•inlBoxes. 


leUyMaibx*. 


Aoucn  «liced».and 
garnbhedwith  Aspic 


Parloles. 


?Vp  WiU  Socks. 


Almond  Cups    ' 
with  Cream. 


Dressed  Lobster 
gatnishedwitfa  Aspiie 


Italiaiv  Cream 
with  a  M4?dalion. 


MttshroumsinJSox^ 


lUgwfttWcB^. 


•Cheese  Cakes. 


i'rench  Heaps.  ' 


AWjacjSliell 
with  cQllaied  ^I. 


i^i^^fmm 


A  Httre^ 


43t 
DECEMBER  SI.    No.  369;   BILL  OF  PARK 


riRST  COtRSE. 
$9Up  ii  la  t'lamBndy 

Removed  with 


A  •mall  Raised 

Pie  with  MyttoD 

and    Potatoes. 


Neck  of  Teal 
k  la  BeslMfnetl. 


BecfC«lIoi». 

Two  Partrids^ 
and  Savoyt. 


A  isalmie  of 
Wild  Diick. 


A  Spare-hli  of 
Pork. 


A  ChameuM, 


bainb*s  Feet  aitd 
*  Aspiiraicu*   Peas. 


A  Volerent 

with 

Coiloy* 


A  Fillet  of  Mutton 

glased,  and 

loniata  Sauce. 


Two  Chickeii* 
2i  la  Reine. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Tw9  FheasarUi* 


Basket  of 
Meringues* 


->*- 


Ailichoke  KotioDis 
in    $aucc. 


Blanquetof  Fowl 
and  Mushrootns. 


A  Turkey  and  ' 
Che«dutc,  &c. 


Cray-flsh  Pudding. 


edwith  hi^h, 
retnovert  with 
a  Ham  g'as- 

tdf  Ik  C^TVCns* 


^Fnune.f 


Soupy 

i<jiM)V4ed  with 

Fish,  Tf  moved 

with  a  Loin 

of  Veal. 


Lark  and  Reef 
Steak  I  lidding. 


Chine  of  Lamb 
and  Cucumber. 


bUnquut  of  Fowl, 


Two  Chickens 
boiled,  ^Cftery. 


Lamb's  FVet 
&  Asparagus  Peas. 


(illetfit  i'ork 

and 
Rober  8auce. 


PAt^  Goodeyeau. 


A  Cliartreuse. 


Beef  Stewed 
&  HanicotKoots. 


Woodcocks 
^  la  Tartar. 


A  Puck 
a  la  Italieone. 


Beef  CollopB. 


Two  Nerks  of 

I jimb horded,^  la 

Chevaux  de  Frieze. 


A  Mutton  and 
Poiatoe  Pie. 


f/are  youpy 

Removtd  with  PISH,  removed  with 

Hii/s  of  Beef. 


6«oe«beriy  Tart. 


Stewed  Peas. 


Stewed  Oysters. 


Chantilly  Cake. 


IHubed  Fowl 
gamislied,  Ike. 


Baakct  of  Psstry. 


Stewed  Gdciy. 


Mince  Pies. 


Aspangas. 


Maccaroni. 


ATH«e. 


Ham  Oikv, 
garniabed,  ftc. 


\ 


Kx  Snipes. 


4  Frame.! 
*  1 


Veal  Cake 
garuisheda  &c. 


Trifle. 


Maccamnl. 


Aspaiagus. 


Mince  Pi« 


Stewt-d  Celery. 


Basket 
of  Pastry. 


I  eg  fit  Lank    i 
8arni«lird.«EC   ' 


Chantilly  Cake. 


Httwed  Orsten. 


Fr*T»ch 


Apricot  ToBte* 


AnivhokeBottvU 


Basket 
of  Meringues. 


Four  Woodcock$» 


43S 

HARE  SOUP, . 

Cot  up  the  remains  of  a  hare  that  has  been  roasted  for 
a  former  dinner ;  put  a  few  slices  of  ham  into  a  stew-pan, 
then  the  faare^  sii^  whole  onions,  a  few  blades  of  mace, 
two  ({aarts  of  stock,  and  a  fagot  of  thyme  and  parsley ; 
«et  it  on  the  stove  to  simnler  very  slow  for  two  hours  or 
better;  thefn  stnun  it  off  and  pull  all  the  meat  from  the 
bones  and  put  it  into  the  mortar,  and  the  lean  ham  that 
"Was  boiled  with  it  ;  pound  it  very  fine,  and  then  put  it  into 
the  stew-pan,  and  the  liquor  that  was  strained  from  it;  add 
the  crqmb  of  two  French  rolls,  anc^  half  a  pint  of  red  port ; 
set  it  on  the  stove  to  simmer  very  .slow  for  half  an  hour, 
then  rub  it  through  the  tammy>  return  it  into  the  stew-pan, 
or  a  small  soup-pot,  to  keep  hot  till  wanted ;  season  it 
with  a  little  Cayenne  pepper  and  salt  if  required. 

BACON  CHINE  ROASTED. 

The  chine  should  be  sprinkled  with  salt  four  days  before 
it  i»  roasted ;  if  large  it  will  take  three  hours  to  roast;  send 
apple  sauce  in  the  boat :  all  pig  meat  should  be  Well  done. 

CRIMPED  COi)  AND  ITALIAN  SAUCK 

Boil  two  slices  of  crimped  cod ;  pull  the  middle  bone 
out,  and  take  the  outside  skin  off;  put  it  on  the  dish  with- 
out breakiugi  and  put  Italian  sauce  over  it ;  put  a  few 
drops  of  the  essence  of  anchovy,  and  a  few  drops  of  sha- 
lot  vinegar,  in  the  sauce ;  garnish  with  croutons  or  paste. 

HARE  CAKE. 

Bone  two  hares,  and  cut  them  in  forces  the  size  of  a 
dice ;  cut  about  two  pounds  of  lean  mutton  and  one  pound 
of  lean  ham ;  mix  them  all  together ;  season  it  with  pep- 
p^,  salt,  fine  spice,  and  Cayenne  pepper;  line  the  mould 

u 


4^, 

intended  for  the  cake  with  sheets  of  fat  bacon ;  lay  the 
bacon  on  double,  particularly  at  the  bottom;  put  six  yolks  of 
eggs  to  the  hare^  &c.  and  mix  the  eggs  well  with  it;  then 
put  a)l  into  the  mould,  and  cover  the  top  over  with  ht  ba- 
con cut  thick^  and  just  to  fit  the  top  of  the  mould;  put  it 
in  a  slow  oveti  for  about  three  hours ;  when  doncj  put  it 
to  cool  in  the  mould  it  was  baked  in ;  this  should  be  done 
a  day  before  wanted  ;  when  you  want  to  turn  it  out,  put 
the  mould  iiftto  hot  water  for  about  one  minute  ;  take  die 
bacon  off,  ind  ornament  it  as  your  fancy  directs.  When 
you  put  thd  cake  on  the  dish,  put  chopped  aspic  round  it. 

A  LOBSTER  CAKE. 

The  number  of  lobsters  wanted  depends  on  the  size  of  the 
mould ;  for  to  match  the  hare  cake,  it  will  take  about  six 
lobsters.  Cut  the  lobsters  in  small  pieces  ;  be  careful  to  put 
all  the  spawn  in  (the  lobsters  should  be  hens)  the  mortar 
with  the  lobsters  and  about  half  a  pound  of  butter,  two 
dozen  of  anchovies  washed  clean,  and  the  bones  taken  out; 
pound  the  lobsters  fine;  season  with  pepper^  salt,  fioe 
apice  and  Cayenne  pepper ;  put  the  yolks  of  twelve  ^gs 
in ;  mix  them  well  witli  the  lobsters ;  sheet  a  mould  with 
fat  bacon  and  put  the  lobster  in,  and  finish  in  all  respects 
the  same  as  the  hare  cake. 


FILLETS  OF  FOWL  IN  ASPIC. 

Put  a  little  aspic  in  a  mould ;  when  cold  ornament  the 
bottom  as  fancy  directs ;  put  a  little  aspic  in  to  cover  the 
work ;  when  cold,  put  a  little  more ;  when  that  is  cold, 
put  in  a  little  more ;  when  that  is  quite  cold>  put  the  fil- 
lets of  fowl  round  the  sides  of  tne  mould.  What  is 
meant  by  fillets  of  fowl,  are  slices  cut  from  the  breast 
the  long  way ;  then  put  a  little  aspic  in  to  set  them  to  the 
other  part  tliat  was  in  the  mould  before ;  when  that  is  coU 


■1 


435 

HIX  ap  the  mould  with  aspic ;  when  wanted^  turn  it  out  ui 
the  same  manner  as  jelly. 

CRAY-FISH  IN  ASPIC. 

Put  aspic  in  the  mouldy  so  as  to  be  about  a  quarter  of 
an  inch  thick ;  let  it  stand  until  quite  cold ;  ornament  the 
bettom  the  same  as  jelly  marbre ;  then  put  a  little  more 
aspic ;  when  that  is  cold  put  a  little  more  in  ;  and^  when 
that  is  cold^  put  the  cray-fish  in ;  lay  them  on  their  backs^ 
so  as  to  appear  swimming ;  put  a  little  aspic  in^  to  set  the 
cray-fish  to  Jhe  aspic  that  is  in  the  mould  ;  when  that  is 
quite  cold^  fill  the  mould  up  and  turn  it  out  as  other  jellies. 
For  Aspic^  see  page  l6l. 

SOUTIES  OF  CARP. 

Clean  two  carp  of  middling  size^  or  ono  large  one ; 
butter  a  soutie-pan^  and  sprinkle  it  with  chopped  shalots^ 
thyme,  parsley^  a  very  little  basil,  pepper  and  saltj  and  a 
little  Cayenne;  bone  the  carp^  and  cut  them  into  thia 
slices ;  flat  them,  and  put  them  on  the  soutie-pan ;  set 
them  on  a  slow  stove  for  a  few.  minutes,  then  turn  them 
and  let  them  stay  for  a  few  minutes  longer ;  then  put  them 
round  the  dish ;  scrape  the  herbs^  &c.  into  a  stew-pan ;  put 
a  little  coulis>  one  glass  of  port  wine^  and  a  little  auchovj 
essence  ;  give  it  a  boil  up  ;  squeze  half  a  lemon  in^  and 
add  a  little  dust  of  sugar ;  put  the  earp  round  the  dish^  a 
little  sauce  over  it^  and  the  remainder  m  the  middle. 

COLLARED  EEL. 

Bone  the  eel,  and  flat  it  well  with  the  flatter,  wask 
and  bone  six  anchovies^  and  put  theni,  in  the  mortar  with 
'  about  two  oupces  of  butter;  pound  theai;  when  done 
take  them  put  and  spread  them  on  the  eel;  sprinkle  a 
large  quantity  of  chopped  parsley ;  se^on  it  with  pepperj 
salt,  fine  spice^  atnd  a  littb  Cayenne;  roll  the  eel  up  very 

V  2 


:  486 

I 

I  .  •       .  •  • 

I       tigbtj  and  tie  k  up  in  a  clotb  as  tight  as  possible ;  thei 

I        put  it  in  a  stew-pan  with  a  quart  of  icater^  half  a  pint  of 

;        vinegar,  a  little  bay-salt,  some  mace,  and  whole  white  pep- 

I        per,  and  a  few  bay-leaves^  put  the  stew-pan  on  to  boil; 

It  should  boil  abput  one  hour :  if  a  very  large  one^  it  will 

take  longer ;  when  done^  take  the  eel  up  and  tie  it  quite 

tight ;  put  it  in  a  bason  and  pour  the  liquor  oyer  it ;  when 

quite  cold  take  the  ctodi  off. 

HAM  CAKE,  GARNISHED, 

Cut  the  remains  of  a  haja  that  has  been  left  from  a 
former  dinner  into  small  pieces,  the  fat  as  well  as  the  lean; 
put  it  into  the  mortar,  and  pound  it  very  fine ;  season  it 
with  a  little  Cayenne  pepper  and  a  little  fine  spice;  put  in 
about  half  a  pound  of  clarified  butter  ;  then  put  it  in  the 
mould,  and  put  the  mould  into  the  oven  for  about  half  an 
hour  or  better;  when  done  put  it  to  cool;  leave  it  in  die 
mould  (all  these  kind  of  things  should  be  done  the  day 
before  wanted) ;  when  you  want  it  dip  the  mould  in  hot 
water,  and  it  will  turn  out;  ornament  it  according  to  your 
fancy* 

LEG  OF  LAMB,  FORCED  AND  GARNISHED. 

Bone  the  lamb  and  fill  the  place  with  foftce-nieat;  put 
it  into  a  white  braise ;  when  done  put  it  into  a.pan  and  the 
braise  over  it ;  ornament  it  the  next  day  as*  fancy  directs. 

VEAL  CAKE. 

It  is  done  in  all  respects  the  same  as  a  ham  cake.  Cot 
part  of  a  cold  fillet,  or  loin  of  veal,,  in  small  pieces,  and 
put  it  in  the  mortar  and  pound  it  very  fine ;  put  one-third 
of  the  kkt  of  liam  to  the  veal ;  pound  it  until  it  ia  well 
mixed  ;  then  season  it  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  fine  spice; 
put  about  half  a  pound  of  clarified  butter  and  mis  it  all 
well  together ;  then  put  it  in  the  mould  and  finish  it  the 
same  as  the  ham  cake.  N.  B.  A*ll  potted  meats*  are  doae 
in  the  same  manner  as  the  ham  and  veal  cake* 


^ 
-H 


JFISH^ 


1#^#^'#<«N»^'«^ 


TURBOT. 

A  TURBOT  should  be  cat  a*cros9  the  back  dn  the 
under  side  to  prevent  its  breaking  while  on  the  fife;  it 
riiould  be  nibbed  AVith  a  lemon  and  satt^  and  kept  in  a  cotd 
place  until  wanted  to  pat  on;  it  should  be  puton  in  cold 
spring  vrater^and  salt  and  vinegar  in  the  water/ and  the  fish 
kettle  should  be  ne^nij  fall ;  as  sooft  as  the  turbot  begins  to 
boil^  put  cold  water  in  ta  stop  the  boiling :  and  if  it  is  a 
large  turbot  you  should  stop  the  boiling  twice ;  then  takt 
it  off  th^  fire^  for  no  fish  should  boil  up  strong. 

N.B.  Those  *who  live  0ear  the  ^ea-side;  sea^wateris 
the  best  for  all  fish* 

,      SALMON. 

Sahnon  requires  m<5re  boiling  than  turbot;  therefore  it 
may  boil  by  tfhe  side  of  the  stove  for  a  few  minutes. 
Criiaped  salmon  should  be  put  into  boiling  water,  and 
should  boil  very  slow. 

A  COD'S  HEAD,  EITHER  CRIMPED  OR- 

PLAIN. 

The  cod's  head  should  be  tied  up  very  tight  (when  in 
London,  aii  tish  is  got  ready  fof  dressing  by  thefishmoa- 
ger) ;  it^hoaid'be  put  on  in  cold  water^  and  put  a  large  ' 

y  3- 


438 

bandfiill  of  salt  in  the  water^  as  it  helps  to  make  it  firm. 
When  it  comes  to  a  boil  put  in  cold  water ;  serve  it  so 
twice ;  take  it  off  the  fire  and  set  it  by  die  side  of  the 
atove  t^  boil  slow  for  a  few  minutes.  Make  it  a  general 
mle  to  have  the  fish-kettle  nearly  TuH^  so  that  the  fish  may 
be  well  covered  with  water. 


CRIMPED  COD  IN  SLICES. 

Slices  of  crimped  cod  should  be  put  on  in  boiling  water, 

and  a  handful  of  salt  and  a  little  vinegar ;  when  the  fish  is 

•put  in^  it  will  of  course  stop  the  boiling  ;  when  it  begins  to 

boil  again  put  some  cold  water  in^  and  let  it  simmer  by  tht 

side  of  the  stove  for  a  few  minutes. 

SOLES  BOILED. 
The  same  as  crimped  codw 

JOHN  DOREY 

Is  reckoned  one  of  the  choicest  fish^  for  which  it  should 
be  paid  particular  care  in  dressing ;.  it  should  be  pat  on  in 
cold  spring  water,  with  a  little  salt  and  vinegar  in  the  water; 
when  it  begins  to  boil  put  in  some  cold  water,  and  when  it 
begins  to  boil  again  put  a  little  more  cold  spring  water  to 
it,  and  put  it  by  the  side  of  the  stove  to  simmer  for  a  few 
minutes. 

HADDOCKS,  WHITINGS,  AND  SMALL 

CODLINGS. 

They  are  all  taken  the  same  method  with  in  boiling; 
they  are  best  put  on  in  cold  spring-water  and  a  large 
handfull  of  salt ;  a  very  few  minutes  will  boil  them.  Whit<* 
ings  take  the  least  boiling  of  any  fish« 


-3; 


489 
A  BRILL 

f 

)s  dressed  in  all  respects  the  same  as  a  turboL 

MACKEREL  BOILED. 

Mack^el  should  be  put  ia  boiling  watetj  and  should 
boil  very  slow* 

SKAIT  BOILED. 

Skait  should  be  put  into  boiling  water^  aiid  a  little  salt ; 
it  takes  very  little  boiling. 

SOLES  FRIED. 

.  Dry  the  soles  in  a  clean  clotfi^  then  flour  and  egg  them 
over^  and  put  bread  crumbs  over  them  :  do  both  sides ;  fry 
them  either  in  lard  or  clarified  butter;  the  lard  should 
he  quite  hot  before  the  soles  are  put  in ;  you  will  know 
when  it  is  hot  by  its  stopping  boiling ;  then  put  in  die 
soles ;  they  should  be  turned,  and  fried  of  a  nice  gold 
colour;  when  taken  up  they  should  be  laid  on  a  wire  sieve 
to  keep  hot,  and  to  drain  the  fat  from  them. 

SOLES,  FILLETED  AND  FRIED, 

Are  done  the  same  way,  and  makes  a  nice  garnish  round 
boiled  fish,  and  are  likewise  handy  for  carving. 

SMELTS 
Are  a  goQ|d  garnish,  and  are  fried  in  the  same  manner  as 

WHITINGS 

Are  skinned  and  tamed  round ;  egg  and  bread  crumbed, 
and  fried  the  same. 


440 

SMALL  HADPOCK; 

The  same  as  whitings* 

SMALL  CODLINGS. 
The  same ;  they  are  cotumonly  called  skinners. 

FLOtJNDERS 

Are  fried  and  boiled  in  the  same  manner  as  soles. 

SKArr  FRIED. 

It  should  be  either  egg  and  breai}  cruipbed^  or  dipped 
in  batter ;  and  fried  the  same  as  any  other  fish. 

WHITINGS  BROILED. 

They  should  be  well  dried  in  a  cloth^  and  then  rolled 
well  in  flour ;  and  before  they  are  put  on  the  gridiron^  the 
bars  should  be  made  very  cie^n^  and  rubbed  with  a  bit  of 
fat  bacon  to  prevent  the  whitings  sticking  to  ^he  bars. 

SUCES  OF  COD  BROILED. 

Make  them  very  dry;  pepper  and  salt  diem^  dien  flour 
them^  and  put  them  on  the  gridiron  to  broil ;  when  dooe^ 
rub  a  bit  of  cold  {Gutter  over  ^^m^  ^d  9prii}kle  them 
with  a  little' pepper  and  salt. 

STURGEON  ROASTED. 

Put  it  on  the  lark-spit^  and  tie  it  on  the  roasting-spit) 
baste  it  well  with  butter ;  make  a  good  sauce  for  it  in  the 
foUo^inl  manner :  put  about  a  piiat  of  iQOoljs  into  a  slew- 
pan  aud  make  it  hot ;  then  put  in  a  glass  of  Madeira  wiMf 
a  little  anchovy  essence,  a  little  eavice,  and  a  little  Cayenne 
peppery  squeeze  half  a  lemon  in,  or  a  Seville  orange  wheo 
to  be  bad,  and  a  little  dust  of  sugar ;  when  tbeaturgaonii 
done  put  it  on  the  dish,  and  the  sauce  ot^  it. 


44T 

STURGEON  BROrLED; 

Cut  it  as  cutletff;  rub  the  bars  of  the  gridiron  Mrith  a^ 
)nt  q{  rbine  of  bacoa^  then  Wipe  the  bars  with  a  clean 
clotb>  and  rub  the  bars  again  witha  bitof  fat  bacon  ;  then 
put  on  the  sturgeon ;  pepper  and  salt  it ;  \vhen  the  under 
«de  is  brown  turn  it>  and  season  it  on  the  other  side ;  whefi 
done  dish  it  round  tbe  dish  Y  put  a  little  chopped  shalot 
kito  a  atew«pan^  a  litUe  chopped  mushroom^  and  a  few 
spoonsful  of  good  stock  ;  set  it  over  the  stove  to  simmer 
g'On^ff  put  about  half  an  ounce  of  butter  m  and  a  little 
jRour ;  it  should  not  be  near  so  thick  as  coulis ;  do  not 
pour  the  sauce  over  it.  but  put  it  in  the  middle  of  the 
dish.      ' 

STURGEON  PLAIN  BOILED, 

Is  done  the  same  as  turbot ;  only  it  will  take  more  boil^ 
mg  than  turbot ;  send  anchovy  sauce  in  a  boat. 

STURGEON  BAKED. 

Put  the  sturgeon  in  a  marinade  made  as  follows :  about 
balf  a  pint  of  vinegar,  half  a  pint  of  sherry  wine,  three 
Or  four  onions  cut  in  thin  slices,  a  few  sweet  herbs;  such 
as  orange  and  lemon  thyme,  a  little  basil,  sweet  marjoram^ 
parsley,  half  a  dozen  of  whole  shalots,  two  heads  of  celery 
after  being  trimmed,  cut  in  small  pieces ;  cut  the  skin  off 
the  sturgeon,  and  put  the  sturgeon  in  an  earthen  dish  and 
pour  the  marinade  over  it ;  then  put  the  skin  that  you  hate 
just  taken  off  oyer  the  sturgeon ;  this  should  be  done  the 
day  before  wanted^  if  you  can  have  the  sturgeon,  as  its  lying 
all  night  in  the  marinade  is  a  very^  great  improvement  to 
f  the  flavour  of  the  stutgeon ;  before  it  is  put  in  the  oven, 
put  about  a  pint  of  good  stock  in  the  dish,  and  cover  the 
sturgeon  over  with  fat  bacon,  and  the  skiu  of  the  sturgeon 
over  the  bacon ;  put  it  in  a  slow  oven  to  do  gently ;  the 
time  it  will  take  depends  on  the  size ;  when  done  pour  off 
the  liquor,  and  put  the  sturgeon  in  the  screen  to  keep  hot 

V  4 


44« 

until  wanted ;  skim  the  fat  off  the  liquor  the  stui^eon  was 
done  in;  put  about  an  ounce  and  a  half  of  butter  into  a 
stew-pan  j^  set  it  on  the  fire ;  when  melted^  put  flour  suffi- 
cient to  dry  it  up;  then  put  in  some  of  the  liquor  die 
sturgeon  was  done  in ;  keep  stirring  it  while  on  the  fire  ; 
when  that  is  well  mixed  with  the  butter  and  flour  put  in 
the  remainder >  and  let  it  boil  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour ; 
then  strain  it  through  a  tammy.  Return  it  into  the  stew- 
pan  ;  set  it  on  the  fire  to  make  hot;  season  it  with  Cayenne 
pepper  and  a  little  anchovy  essence ;  squeze  half  a  lemon 
in^  and  put  a  little  sugar  in ;  when  you  can  procure  a 
Seville  orange  use  it  instead  of  lemon;  put  the stui^eoa 
on  the  dish^  and  the  sauce  over  it. 

RED  MULLETS. 

~  They  should  be  folded  up  in  oiled  paper^  and  put  in  a  sod* 
tie*panwithaglassof  sherry  wine^  and  put  in  theoven ;  when 
done^  take  them  out^  and  pour  the  liquor  from  them  into  a  ba- 
son^ and  put  the  mullets  to  keep  hot  until  wanted ;  put  a  little 
bit  of  butter  into  a  stew-pan  ;  when  melted^  put  a  little 
'JBour  in^  as  much  as  will  dry  up  the  butter ;  stir  it  over  the 
fire ;  then  put  in  the  liquor  that  came  from  the  mullets ; 
add  as  much  stock  as  is  requisite  to  make  the  quantity 
wanted ;  add  a  little  anchovy  essence ;  send  the  mullets  to 
table  in  the  papers^  and  the  sotice  in  a  boat. 

PIPERS. 

Pipers  should  be  baked^  and  stufiing  put  in  them  ;  pat 
about  half  a  pint  of  stock  in  the  dish  they  are  to  be  baked 
in ;  when  done^  pour  the  liquor  from  them  into  a  bason  ; 
put  about  an  ounce  of  butter  into  a  stew-pan  ;  when 
melted^  put  as  much  flour  as  will  dry  it  up ;  then  put  in 
the  liquor  from  the  pipers^ first  skimming  it;  stir  it  till  it 
boils ;  then  put  a  little  essence  of  anchovies  in ;  send  the 
«auce  in  a  boat* 


443 


MACKEREL  A  LA  MAITRE  D'HOTEL. 

Boil  mackerel  lierbs^  and  chop  them  quite 'fioe^  and^ 
mix  about  an  ounce  of  butter  for  one  mackerel ;  mix  a 
little  pepper  and  salt;  then  put  it  in  the  belly  of  the 
mackerel ;  flour  them^  and  put  them  on  tlie  gridiron  to 
hxp^h  over  a  clear  fire ;  when  done^  take  them  off,  and 
send  the  mackerel  sauce  in  a  boat. 

A  MACKEREL,  SPLIT  AND  BROILED, 

Split  a  mackerel,  and  put  three  skewers  through  it,  to 
keep  it  flat ;  have  chopped  mackerel  herbs  boiled,  and 
chopped  fine ;  pepper  and  salt  the  mackerel ;  then  spread 
the  herbs  over  the  mackerel,  and  sprinkle  it  well  with 
white  pepper  and  salt ;  then  flour  it  well,  and  flour  the 
table,  and  lay  the  mackerel  on  the  flour,  and  make  as 
sauch  of  the  flour  stick  to  the  mackerel  as  you  can ;  by 
so  doing,  it  will  prevent  their  sticking  to  the  gridiron ; 
they  should  be  of  a  nice  J^rown ;  make  the  sauce  for  them 
as  follows :  chop  a  few  capers,  and  put  a  little  coulis  into 
a  stew-pan  ;  then  put  in  the  capers  .and  chopped  mackerel 
herbs;  season  it  with  Cayenne  pepper,  and  put  a  litt(e 
anchovy  iii^  send  tlie  sauce  in  a  boat. 

FILLETS  OF  MACKEREL. 

Fillet  two  mackerel,  and  cut  each  fillet  into  two 
pieces ;  put  about  an  ounce*  of  butter  into  a  stew-pan, 
and  some  chopped  mackerel  herbs^  that  have  been  boiled, 
about  two  spoonsfuU  ;.  put  the  fillets  of  mackerel  in> 
and  set  them  over  a  slow  stove,  to  simmer  very  gently  for 
about  ten  minutes;  then  take  them  out  with  a  small 
slice,  and  put  them  on  the  dish,  and  cover  over,  and  put 
the  dish  in  the  screen,  until  the  sauce  is  ready  ^  put  a 
little  flour  to  the  herbs,  and  stir  it  about  while  on  the 
fire ;  then  put  in  as  nwch  beshemell  as  will  be  suflicivat 
for  the  quantity  of  sauce  wanted ;  let  it  boil  slow  for  a 


444. 

minute  or  two ;  put  in  a  little  anchoyy  essence^  and  squeze 
a  littfe  limon-juice  in^  and  a  v«ry  little  dust  of  sugar ;  then 
put  it  ovgr  the  mackerel ;  garnish  with  croutons. 

DRIED  WHITINGS. 

They  are  split  down  the  hack^  and  the  back  bone  takea 
Dutj  and  salted  for  about  two  ^days ;  then  hung  up  in  the 
sun  to  dry;  they  are  frequently  used  for  breakfast  in 
Devonshire^  and  after  the  second  course  is  taken  away. 

DRIED  SALMON 

Should  be  cured  as  new  as  possible  4  they  should  be 
split  down  the  back>  and  salted  with  bay  salt,  pounded 
very  fine^  and  the  salmon  laid  one  on  another^  and  a 
board  laid  on  them^  and  a  weight  on  the  board;  the 
salmon  should  remain  in  salt  about  a  week^  and  then 
smoke  dry  it. 

RED  HERRINGS. 

Puli'out  the  gills  and  gut^  and  salt  them  with  .pounded 
bay-salt ;  they  should  lie  in  salt  for  about  four  or  five 
days ;  and  then  smoke  dry  tbem  the  same  as  salmon* 


■» ., 


»i^t^^m^^^*^^mm^mm^ 


SUPPER  AND  OTHER  DISHES^ 

AND  BBCIPB8  NOT   INCLUDED  IN   mS 
PRECEDING   C0t7BS£. 


«^<#<^#«>»#<r^^ 


COLLARED  BEEF. 

« 

xSONE  the  flat  ribs ;  sprinkle  the  meat  with  bay-salt^ 
saltpetre,  and  coarse  brown  sugar^  and  leave  it  so  three  days  ; 
then  make  about  a  pound  of  salt  hot  in  the  frying-pan^ 
and  rub  it  well  into  the  beef;  let  it  lie  in  salt  about  ten 
days  ;  wash  it  over  with  ihe  pickle  every  s^ORi  day,  and 
turn  it ;  put  a  few  bay-leaves  in  the  pickle,  and  spf  iokle 
the  beef  over  with  fine  spice,  about  three  or  four  days' 
before  it  is  boiled ;  before  it  is  tied  up  in  the  cloth  to 
boil,  beat  it  with  thcxheaviest  cleaver  you  have  got,  both 
for  the  sake  of  making  it  tender,  and  keeping  its  shape 
the  better* when  boiled;  it  should  be  boiled  until  quite 
tender ;  when  done,  wring  the  ends  of  the  qloth,  and  tie 
them  quite  tight;  then  set  it  in  a  press,  and  a  heavy 
weight  on  it ;  if  you  have  no  press,  put  it  on  a  dish, 
and  prop  it  up.  as  well  as  you  can,  and  put  a  we^ht 
on  it. 

BCEUF  DE  CHASSE. 

Rub  two  ounces  of  pounded  saltpetre^  and  about  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  coarse  n^oist  sugar,  well  into  ^ 
round  of  beef;  put  the  beef  into  a  large  pan,  that  will 

1*ust  hold  it ;  let  it  lie  so  for  two  days ;  then  pound  some 
lay-salt,  about  half  a  pound,  and  about  one  pound  of 
common  salt ;  make  them  hot  in  the  frying-pan,  and  qib 
them  well  into  the  beef;  and  put  the  beef  back  into  the  pan  { 
in  about  tliree  days  rub  a  little  more  salt  into  the  beef, 
imd  turn  it  every  second  day ;  when  it  has  been  in  salt 
^bout  one  week,  rub  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  cinnamon, 
cloves>  half  an  ounce  of  mace^  and  half  an  ounce  of  nut- 


megs,  all  pounded  very  fi^e  and  sifted,  into  the  beef;  it 
should  remain  in  salt  about  a  fortnight;  then  ske.ver  it 
up  very  tight^  and  bind  it  round  with  a  broad  fillet ;  either 
bake  k,  or  braise  it  in  a  braisJng*pan^  that  will  just  hold 
it ;  put  water  sufficient  to  cover  it^  and  about  one  dozen 
of  onions,  and  six  heads  of  celery,  a  lal-ge  fagot  of 
thyme,  parsley,  basil,  knotted  and  sweet  marjoram,  and 
about  tM'o  pounds  of  beef  suet,  cut  fine,  put  over  the 
beef ;  then  put  the  beef  over  the  fire^  to  boil  very  slow 
for  about  six  hours ;  put  .a  heavy  weight  on  the  lid  of  the 
braising'-pan^  otherwise  the  beef  will  raise  the  cover  off 
when  it  begins  to  swell ;  it  will  take  equal  time  in  the 
toven;  when  done,  take  the  braising-pan  off  the  fire,  and  set 
St  by  to  cool  in  the  liquor ;  be  careAdi  that  the  braisiif 
pan  be  well  tigned ;  if  it  is  baked,  it  should  be  put  in  a 
deeped  pan^  and  covered  over  with  a  thick  paste^  made 
vi'ith  the  coarsest  Hour  and  water. 


A  GOOSE  AND  TORKEY  PIE.  ^ 

By  adding  Game,  such  as  Partridges,  If  ares-,  Pheasants, 
S^c.  it  is  called  a  Christmas  Pie. 

Bone  two  geese,  two  lurkies ;  season  the  inside  with 
teixed  pepper  and  salt,  a  little  fine  spice,  and  Cayenne 
pepper,  and  piit  them  by  for  a  day  or  two ;  then  draw  the 
geese  one  within  the  other,  and  the  turkies  the  same ;  put 
some  good  farce  in  the  geese  and  turkies,  a  piece  of  the 
prime  of  a  Westphalia  ham,  and  about  a  dozen  of  raw 
truffles  in  the  turkies  ;  chop  the  bones  of  the  turkies  and 
geese ;  put  about  two  pounds  of  lean  ham,  cut  in  slices^ 
and  lay  them  in  the  bottom  of  the  braismg-pan;  then  put 
in  the  bones,  and  a  knuckle  of  veal,  and  a  quart  of  stock, 
into  the  braising  pan  ;  then  make  the  tai  kies  and  geese 
into  a  proper  shape,  and  put  them  *  into  the  braising- i;an, 
and  put  it  on  the  fire,  to  simmer  gently  for  about  an  Lour; 
then  take  them  out,  and  put  thei:i  on  a  dish  to  cool ;  fill 
the  braising*pan  up  with  best  stock :  when  it  begins  to 
boil^  take  it  off  the  fire^  and  set  it  by  the  side^  to  boil  very 


447 

^w  for  about  three  hours ;  then  strain  it  off^  and  fill  it* 
up  ag^in  with  second  stock,  and  let  it  boil  for  about  four 
}r  five  hours ;  then  strain  it  off ;  what  \^'as  strained  oiF 
irst  is  for  the  aspic,  and  boiled  down  low^  to  fill  up  the 
|)ie.  \vhen  taken  out  of  the  oven ;  when  the  turkies  and 
;eese  are  cold,  raise  the  pie ;  put  in  slices  from  a  fillet  of 
'eal,  or  nimp  steaks,  in  the  bottom  of  the  pie ;  season 
bem  well  with  Cayenne  pepper  and. salt;  put  some 
'arceon  the  steaks;  then  put  in  the  geese  and  turkies^ 
tnd  put  farce  all  round  the  sides,  and  a  few  trufiles  be- 
ween  the  turkies  and  geese^  and  put  farce  on  them,  and 
iheets  of  bacon  ov^r  all;  then  cover  the  pie  in,  and 
)rnament  it  as  your  fancy  directs ;  it  should  be  finished 
he  day  before  it  is  wanted  to  be  baked :  observe ,  to  orna- 
Dent  it  strong ;  for,  if  done  fine^  it  will  not  look  wellj  by 
teing  so  long  in  the  oven :  the  best  oven  for  it  is  after  the 
>read  is  drawn  out;  and  should  be  watched  to  see  when 
t  begins  to  boil ;  it  will  take  about  four  hours  after  it  has 
egan  to  boil ;  paper  it  well,  that  it  may  not  be  too  high 
oloured ;  when  done,  take  it  out  of  the  oven^  and  fill  it 
p  with  first  stock,  reduced  to  about  half  glaze.  This 
ie  will  take  twenty-four  hours  to  get  thoroughly  coldj 
ierefore  you  must  prepare  accordingly ;  it  ought  to  be 
egau  four  days,  at  least,  before  wanted.  Before  the  pie  is 
mi  to  table^  there  should  be  chopped  aspect  put  over 
le  turkey  ;  first,  take  the  sheet  of  bacon  off — this  is  the 
sneral  rule,  but  not  the  rule  I  either  follow  or  recom- 
lend,  for  this  reason— by  taking  the  bacon  off  the  geese, 
c.  &c.  you  let  the  air  into  the  pie,  and  then  the  aspic 
ill  get  sour  and  mouldy  in  three  or  four  days ;  by  filling 
le  pie  up^  as  above-mentioned,  it  will  keep  good  for 

mouth  or  two ;  the  pie  should  be  filled  up  to  the- 
p;  as  it  will  soak  down,  very  much:  it  should  be  kept 
led,  so  as  to  cover  the  meat. 

N.  B.  Small  pies,  for  ball  suppers,  should  have  the* 
pic  put  over  them,  before  they  are  sent  to  table ;  in 
ery  other  respect,  all  cold  pies  should  be  made  in  this 
anner,  only  varying  as  to  differec^  meats,  &c.     When 


44* 

JOM  wtnt  to  makie  a  Christinas  pie>  add  game  of  idl  aofii^ 
boned  and  finished  the  same  as  the  turkey.  i 

A  SUCKING  PIG,  COLLARED. 

Split  the  pig  down  the  belly,  and  bone  it ;  season  it 
the  same  as  small  collars,  only  add  some  chopped  sage ; 
in  all  other  respects  finish  it  the   same    as  the   small 

fcoUara*  ^  .         ' 

SMALL  COLLARS. 

They  are  made  of  the  feet  and  ears  of  large  pigs,  that 
have  been  scalded  (hot  singed)  f  the  feet  should  be  cut 
above  the  first  joint,  then  boned,  and  seasoned  with  pepper 
and  salt,  and  a  little  fine  spice  and  saltpetre;  the  ears 
seasoned  in  the  same  way ;  leave  them  in  that  state  four 
or  five  days ;  then  roll  up  a  foot,  and  two  ears,  and  tie 
them  up  very  tight  and  put  them  in  cloths,  provided  for 
the  purpose ;  boil  them  in  a  good  brown  braise  ;  let  there 
be  plenty  of  onions,  thyme^  parsley,  marjoramj  sage, 
celery,  and  carrots;  the  collars  should  boil  until  quite 
tender,  and,  when  done,  the  cloths  tied  tight,  then  put'  to 
cool ;  when  cold,  take  the  cloths  off  them,  and  send  them 
to  table  either  in  slices,  or  whole,  ornamented;  they  both! 

eat  and  look  as  well  as  brawn.  i 

I 
I 

CALFS   HEAD  COLLARED,  IN  IMITATION 

OF  BRAWN. 

The  calf  s  head  should  be  scalded,  and  should  be  as 
"white  as  possible  ^  bone  four  feet,  and  season  them  with 
salt,  Cayenne  «pepper,  and  fiqe  spice ;  bone  the  calfs 
head,  and  season^  it.  (he  saini^  as  the  feet ;  put  all  on  a 
dish,  and  turn  them  every  day,  and  rub  them  over  with  s 
little  saltpetre  and  bay-salt ;  they  should  remain  in  that 
state  for  about  one  week,  if  in  winter,  but  not  so  long  in 
summer;  when  ready  for  dressing,  cut  fat  and  lean  ham, 
or  gammon  of  bacen^  in  long  square  pieces^  about  the 


imtm  «}ee  as  U  used  for  daubiiig;  beat  tfie  li^  and 
feet  with  the  beef-st^gk  jflattsr;  lay  the  ham^  first  lead^ 
and  then  6att,  aH  over  the  headj  then  the  calfs  feet 
over  the  ham ;  jth^y  likewise  should  be  iBatted ;  season 
thein  by  sprinkling  them  over  with  fine  spice^  salt^  and 
Cayenne  pepper;  roll  it  up  tight^  and  pnt^  it  in  a  doth^ 
and  finish  it  in  all  resp^cln  the  same  as  collared  beef ;  at 
ought  to  be  well  boiled, 

COLLARED  PIG'S  HEAD.     , 

A  bacon  hog's  head  is  the  best  for  this  use ;  it  should 
be  boned  and  rubbed  with  saltpetre^  and  laid  on  a  dish  f^r 
two  days  ;  then  make  some  salt  hot  in  the  frying-pan^  aiid 
about  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  coarse  moist  sugar^  and 
rub  it  all  on  the  head;  it  should  be  in*  salt  about  three 
weeks^  and  beat  with  a  heavy  cleaver  before  k  is  tied  up  ; 
finish  exactly  the  same  way  as  collared  beef. 

COLD  PARTRIDGE  PIE. 

«Boae  the  partridges^  the  nuniber  according  to  the  $ize 
of  the  pie  wanted ;  make  good  farce,  and  fill  the  par- 
tridges with  it;  put  a  whole  raw  truIHe^  that  has  been 
peeled,  in  each  partridge ;  raise  the  pie ;  when  done^  lay 
a  few  slices  of  undressed  veal  in  the  bottom  of  the  pie^ 
and  then  season  it,  and  put  a. layer  of  farce  ;  then  put  in 
the  partridges,  and  four  raw  truffles  to  efich  partridge,  aixi 
i;over  the  partridges  well  over  with  farce;  and  finish  the 
pie  as  the  goose  and  turkey  pie :  cover  the  bottom  of  a 
stew-pan  with  lean  ham,  and  put  in  the  bones  and  giblets 
belonging  to  the  partridges,  and  ar^  other  trimmings  of 
poultry  ;  put  in  a  dozen  shalots,  a  few  bay-leaves,  a  little 
mace,  a  fagot  of  thyme  and  parsley ;  put  in  about  half-  a 
pint  of  very  good  stock,  and  set  it  on  the  stove  to  simmer 
slow  for  an  hour ;  then  put  in  as  much  good  stock  as  will 
fill  up  the  stew-pan,  and  let  it  boil  very  slow  for  three 
hours,  so  as  to  get  all  the  goodness  from  the  bones.  Sec. ; 
remember  that  it  should  boil  very  slow^  otherwise  it  will 


'430 

f  waste,  and  there  will  not  be  a  sufficient  quantity  to  fill  up 
,  the  pie ;  when  strained  off^  put  it  into  a  stew-pan^  and 

reduce  it  to  about  half  the  *  quantity ;  then  put  in  about 
^balf  a  pint  of  Madeira^  and  put  it  by  till' wanted;  whea 

the  pie  is  baked^  and  out  of  the  oven  for  half  an  hour, 
.  then  fill  the  pie  up^  but  do  not  take  any  of  the  fat  off;  it 
.will  want  filling  up  t^  or  three  tinies^  as  it  will  soak  in. 

GALENTINE. 

Bone  a  breast  of  veal^  and  beat  it  well  with  a  beary 
cleav^r^  to  make  it  roll  up  the  'better ;  then  spread  it  oo 
the  tabie^  and  brush  the  inside  over  with  egg ;  put  plentjr 
on  them ;'  season  it  well  with  pepper^  salt,  fine  spice^  and 
Cayenne  pepper;  then  sprinkle  it  well  with  chopped 
shalots,  thyme^  and  parsley  (there  should  be  three  times 
as  much  parsley  as  shalot);  Cut  lean  and  fat  bam^  or 
gammon  of  bacon^  in  pieces  as  long  as  the  veal  is  broad^ 
and  about  a' quarter  of  an  inch  square;  lay  a  piece  of 
lean,  and  then  a  piece  of  fat;  sprinkle  it  over  with 
chopped  mushrooms  (truffl^s^  if  to  be  had),  parsleyi 
*thyme,  xtnd  shalot;  then  roll  it  up  tight,  and  put  it  in  a 
'  cloth,  and  tie  the  ends  quite ,  tight,  and  boil  it  in  a  brown 
braise,  until  quite  tender ;  then  take  it  up^  and  put  it  on 
a  pewter  dish^  and  put  another  dish  over  it^  and  a  heavy 
weight  on  it,  to  press  it  fiat ;  it  should  be  done  two  days 
before  wanted ;  it  is  generally  used  for  ball  suppers. 

N.  B.  A  breast  of  mutton  may  be  done  the  same  way^ 
and  will  answer  the  same  purpose, 

PARTRIDGES  OR  PHEASANTS, 

Preserved  for  Entries  and  Pies,  for  Dinners  and  largt 
Entertainments,  when  Game  is  out  of  Season. 

Those  for  pies  should  be  boned  and  filled  with  good 
farce,  and  two  or  three  raw  truffles  put  in  each  bird  or 
pheasant.    Lay  the  bottom  of  the  stew-pan  intended  for 


461 

ike  l^rds  with  slices  of  lean  ham ;  then  pnt  in  the'  boisis 
o£>the  partridges^  and  the  trimmings  of  anj  other  poultry  6r 
game  that  may  be  about ;  a  few  onions^  a  fagot  of  thyme^ 
a  few  shalots^  a  few  blades  of  mace^  and  a  pint  of  the 
best  stock;  put  the  stew-pan  on  a  stow  stove  to  simmer 
gently  until  the  stock  is  quite  reduced ;  then  put  in  the 
birds  and  cover  them  over  with  bacon^  and  put  abouta 
pint  of  stocky  or  as  much  as  will  cover  the  bones ;  cover 
the  partridges  over  with  a  sheet  of  writing  paper  Cut  to 
the  size  of  the  stew-pan;  put  the  stew-pan  over  a  slow 
stove  to  simmer  gently  for  an  hour,  or  until  the  birds  are 
sufficiently  tender  (they  should  not  be  done  too  much^  for 
if  they  break  they  will  not  look  well  when  put  in  the  pies) ; 
take  them  up  and  put  them  in  oval  potting-pots ;  then  fill  the 
stew-pan  up  with  the  best  stock  and  let  it  boil  very  gently 
For  three  hours ;  then  strain  it  off  and  boil  it  down  nearly 
to  a  glaze ;  then  pour  it  over  the  partridges ;  then  clarify 
the  fat  that  was  skimmed  off  the  liquid^  and  the  fat  from 
any  other  braise  that  may  be  at  band;  pour  it  over  the  par- 
tridges while  quite  hot ;  the  fat  should  be  at  least  one  inch 
deep,  so  that  the  birds  are  entirely  covered. 

Pheasants  are  done  in  the  same  manner  for  pies;  those 
that  are  intended  to  be  served  up  hot  for  the  first  course^ 
either  with  cabbage  or  truffles^  should  not  be  boned^  but 
filled  with  farce,  and  a  truffle  or  too  put  in  the  inside ;  the; 
legs  should  be  drawn  in  in  the  same  manner  as  a  chicken  for 
boiling :  when  you  want  to  make  a  pie  of  either  partri'dges 
or  pheasants^  lay  slices  of  undressed  veal  at  the  bottom  of 
the  pie ;  then  put  in  a  layer  of  farce ;  first  season  the  veal 
with  pepper  and  salt ;  then  put  in  the  partridges  or  phea- 
sants, and  cover  them  over  with  good  farce  and  sheets  of 
^at  bacon,  or  the  fat  of  a  cutting  ham ;  which  is  what  I 
generally  use  for  all  things  that  require  to  be  covered  with 
^at ;  in  the  first  place  it  has  a  finer  flavour  than  fat  bacon; 
md^  in  the  nest  place,  fat  of  ham  cannot  be  used  in  any 
>ther  way,  therefore  it  would  be  wasted  if  not  so  used ;  as 
ibove-mentioned^  it  answers  two  good  purposes:  which 
ure^  by  giving  a  better  flavotu-^  £)nd  by  being  economical. 


453 

mUA  ougbt  to  be  eonBidered  by  aS  cooks.  When  &•  fk 
h  baked>  and  has  been  out  of  the  oven  about  half  an  hoor^ 
£U  it  up  with  the  glaze  that  was  about  the  partridges  sr 
pheasants ;  in  every  other  respect  finish  as  all  cold  raised 
pies  for  ball  suppers^  &c.  &c. 

The  partridges  or  pheasants  that  are  intended  for  e«tr6es 
should  be  warmed  by  the  side  of  a  slow  stove ;  the  tanee 
is  to  be  made  from  part  of  the  glaze'that  the  birds  were  io: 
l^raise  the  cabbage  in  a  brown  braise,  or  with  a  haaij  or  any 
thing  else  of  that  kind. 

SAUSAGES 

Are  generally  made  from  the  trimmings  of  the  hsns 
and  different  parts  of  the  pig ;  the  fat  and  lean  should  be 
of  a|i  equal  quantity ;  it  should  be  first  cut  fine  with  a 
knife  (be  careful  that  all  the  sinews  are  taken  out),  then 
finish  chopping  with  a  cfaopping-kuife  ;  when  very  fine 
season  it  with  pepper  and  salt^  a  little  fine  spice,  and  some 
chopped  ^age :  the  sage  should  be  chopped  particularly 
fine ;  when  all  well  mixed^  put  it  .in  skins  or  pots :  if  in 
pots  it  should  be  pressed  down  very  tight,  and  a  little  pep- 
per and  salt  sprinkled  over  the  top;  the  pots  are  the 
handiest  for  family  use,  as  it  will  keep  longer;  when 
wanteo^  roll  theim  up  and  fry  them  in  clarified  butter.  . 

TURTLE. 

.  The  one  that  I  am  about  giving  directions  for  dressing, 
^was  one  hundredweight;  I  mention  every  particular  to 
enable  a  young  beginner  to  go  through  the  whole  process, 
so  as  to  give  satisfaction  to  his  or  her  employer :  which  if 
.  strictly  attended  to,  cannot  fail.  Tie  a  cord  to  the  hind 
fins  to  hang  it  up ;  then  fasten  another  to  the  fore  fiu«,  so 
as  to  prevent  them  from  being  troublesome  to  the  persoa 
who  cuts  off  the  head ;.  this  should  be  done  the  ev<>niiig 
before  it  is  to  be  dressed.  Lay  the  turtle  on  the  chopping- 
block  on  the  back  shell ;  then  loose  the  white  shell  roonl 


453 

the  edge  by  cuttiiig  it ;  then  raise  the  «M1  off  clean  from 
the  flesh ;  next^  take  out  the  gall  with  great  care ;  then  cut 
the  fore  fins  off;  all  the  flesh  wiH  come  with  them ;  then 
cut  the  hind  fins  off;  take  the  liver  a&  whole  as  you  can 
from  the  entrails^  likewise  the  heart  and  kidnies:  then  cut 
the  eiltrails  from  the  back-bone  and  put  them  in  a  bucket; 
wash  the  sheils  in  several  waters  to  clean  them  from  the 
bloody  and  turn  them  down  to  drain ;  in  the  mean  time 
cut  the  fins  from  the  lean  meat,  then  cut  the*  white  shell 
into  about  twelve  pieces ;  then  turn  up  the  back  sheH  and 
take  all  the  fat  from  it  (take  it  out  the  same  as  if  you  were 
skinning  any  thing)  and  put  it  into  ar  stew-pan.    Saw  a  rim^ 
of  the  back  shell  about  six  inchesr  deep  (a  strong  lock-saw 
is  the  best  for  this  purpose)^  cut  it  in  about  a  dozen  pieces^ 
Set  a  large  turbot-kettle  on  the  fire  about  half  full  of  wa- 
ter ;  when  it  b^ins  to  boil  take   it  off.  the  fire^  and  set  it 
by  the  side  to  keep  it  simmering;  dip  the  fins  in  one  at  a 
time ;  let  them  lay  in  about  a  minute  or  two ;  then  take  them 
oQt  and  peel  the  outside  skiQ>  off;  be  very  particular  to  take 
it' all  off;  when  the  fins  are  done>  then  put  iii  the  head  and 
peel  that  the  same  as  the  fins;  then  put  in  the  white  shell 
and  peel  tliat;  and^  as  you  peel  thcm>  throw  them  into  a 
tub  of  cold  wafer,  the  fins  and  head  the  sftrae ;  then  put  in 
the  pieces  of  the  back  shell  and  peel  them  the  same,  and 
be  very  particular  in'  taking  all  the  outside  peel  off  ^the 
shell;  then  put  the  shell  into  a  fish-^kettle  that  will  just 
hold  it;  put  in  about  two  dozen  of  onions,  and  a  large 
fagot  of  turtle  herbs;  then  put  as  much  water  as  will 
b^ely  cover  the  shell ;  then  set  it  over  the  stove ;  when  it 
comes  to  a  boil  take  it  off  the  trivet  and  set  it  by  the  side  of 
the  stove  to  simnler  quite  slow.  Until  it  becomes  quite  ten-* 
ddi*,  and  the  bones  slip  out  quite  easy :  thefbre  fins  should 
be  chopped  in  about  four  pieces^  and  the  hind  fins  in  two; 
put  them  in  a  stew-'pan  that  w4il  just  hpjd  them,  and  follow 
the  same  rule  ab  the  shell;  when- tendei^, take  them  up  and 
draw  all'  the  bones  out,  and  the  shell  the  sfttne^  and  put 
them  on  separate  dishes ;  stirain  the  li^^rs  off  and  put 
them  both  into  one  pan;  whil^  the  fins^  and  shell  are  boil* 


454 

ing,'  divide  the  lean  meat  for  entrees :  such  as  for  fncan-'.i 
deau^  grenadines^  and  co1Ioj>s ;  for  roasting,  as  sweetbreads;  i 
boiling),  as  chickens ;  to  mince^  for  p^t^s^  for  semels,  or  1 
steaks ;  then  put  about  three  pounds  of  lean  haai  into  a  1 
soup-pot)  and  all  the  lean  meat  that  is  to  spare  from  tbe  j 
entrees ;  three  old  fowls  and  a  nuckle  of  veal,  a  large  fagot 
of  turtle  herbS)  about  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  mace  tied 
up  in  the  fagot^  a  dozen  of  onions^  half  a  pound  of  fresh 
butter^  and  a  bottle  of  Madeira  wine ;  set  the  pot  on  the 
stove  to  draw  down ;  be  careful  in  not  having  too  fierce  a 
fire ;  when  nearly  down^  fill  the  pot  up  with  tbe  best 
stock  ;  when  it  begins  to  boii,  take  it  off  the  fire  and  put 
it.by  tbe  side  of  the  stove  to  boil  very  slow  for  two  hours ; 
then  strain  it  off ;  pick  out  what  lean  meat  you  want  for 
tbe  tureenS)  and  put  it  into  a  stew-pan^  with  a  little  of  tbe 
stock  to  keep  it  hot ;  while  the  shell  and  fins  are  boiling, 
^et  a  person  to  scour  and  scald  the  entrails ;  it  is  requisite 
that  you  should  be  extraordinarily  particular  in  seeing  that 
they  are  properly  cleaned ;  then  cut  .them  in  pieces^  about 
two  inches  long ;  put  them  on  to  blanch  in  cold  water ; 
when  they  begin  to  boil,  take  them  off,  and  wash  them  in 
several  waters ;  then  put  them  into  a  stew-pan^  and  put 
as  much  stock  as  will  cover  them^  and  put  slices  of  fat 
bacon  over  them^  and  white  paper^  cut  to  the  size  of  tbt 
stew-paU)  over  all^  and  about  a  quart  of  the  very  best 
stock)  a  few  onions^  and  a  fagot  of  turtle  herbs^  and  cover 
them  over  with  sheets  of  bacon,  and  over  that  white 
paper,  cut  to  the  size  of  the  stew-pan ;  set  the  stew-pan 
to  simmer  very  slow>  until  they  are  quite  tender ;  the  liver 
is  best  as  a  souties,  the  heart  and  the  kidnies  in  the  middle 
of  the  dish)  and  the  liver  round  the  dish;  the  head  be- 
longs to  the  fins.  While  the  turtle  is  doing,  chop  the 
ttirtle  herbs ;  when  all  is  ready,  put  two  pounds  of  tbe 
best  fresh  butter  into  a  large  stew-pan,  or  a  drawing-pan ; 
put  in  a  pint  of  good  stock,  a  pound  of  the  prime  part  of 
a  Westphalia,  or  Yorkshire  ham,  cut  very  fine,  into  a  stew* 
pan,  some  chopped  mushrooms  (trnfBes,  when  to  be  had), 
«halot^  parsley  (double  tb^  quantity  of  any  other  herb). 


4^5 

ftweet  and  knotted  marjoram^  ^  lemon  aiid  orange  ttiyme^ 
common. tliyme^  basil  (about  half  as  much  as  any  of  the 

'  othei'  herbs)^  two  Spanish  onions>  if  to  be  had^  otherwise 
tMTO  or  three  common  onions ;  se^  the  stew-pan  over  the 
fire  to  simmer  for  an  hour  and  a  half  ^  then  put.  in  as 
much  floi^r  as  will  dry  up  the  butter;  keep  stirring  it  over 
the  fire  to  take  off  the  rawness  of  the  flour ;  then  fill  the 
stew-pan  up  with  the  turtle  stocky  by  putting  in  a  little  at 
a  time,  and  keep  stirring  all  the  while^  on  the  fire ;  add 
four  or  five  quarts  of  best  stock,  or  as  much  as  you  think 
will  be  wanted^  and  one  bottle  of  Madeira ;  let  it  boil  a 
few  minutes ;  then  rub  it  through  the  tammy ;  return  it 
into  the  soup-pot,  and  put  in  the  callipee  and  callipash, 
cut  in  pieces  about  two  inches  square,  or  thereabouts ; 
put  the  fins  into  another  soup-pot,  and  some  of  the  turtle 
80up  with  them ;  put  force-meat  and  egg-balls  to  both  ; 
the  green  fat  should  be  boiled  by  itself,  in  best  stock,  and 
about  half  a  pint  of  Madeira ;  when  done,  cut  it  in  small 
pieces,  and  put  it  to  the  callipee  and  callipash ;  season 
the  soup  with  Cayenne  pepper,  and  a  little  fine  spice ;  be 
sparing  in  using  Cayenne  pepper  (it  is  easier  for  the  com^* 
pany  to  add  a  little ;  when  too  hot,  they  cannot  alter  it) ; 
squeze  four  lemons,  and  three  Seville  oranges  (when  to  be 
had)  into  a  bason,  and  put  the  Cayenne  and  fine  spice  to 
it;  add  a  little  sugar,  a  pint  of  Madeira,  and  a  little  salt^ 
if  wanted ;  put  three  parts  to  the  soup,  and  the  other  to 
the  fia« ;  this  should  not  be  put  in  until  a  few  minutes 
before  dishing  time.  If  the  back  shell  is  sent  to  table^ 
put  a  rim  of  paste  round  it  (the  same  kind  of  paste  as 
the  raised  pies  are  made  with)  ;  ornament  it  as  your  fancy 
directs ;  the  hind  fins  and  the  head  should  be  formed  in 
paste^  so  as  to  give  it  the  likeness  of  a  turtle ;  put  a  little 
good  stock,  and  a  little  Madeira,  in  the  shell,  before  it  is 
put  in  the  oven ;  when  sent  to  table,  fill  it  the  same  as  a 

k  tureen  ;  if  you  send  any  of  the  lean  meat  to  table  in  the 

f  tureens,  keep  it  hot  in  a  stew-pan  by  itself;  when  the 
tureensi  are  filliqg,  put  the  lean  meat  in  ;  for  H  the  lean 

1  Hieat  is  boiled  with  the  turtle^  it  is  apt  to  boil  to  pieces^ 


466 

and  spoil  the  look  of  the  turtle;  if  the  turtk  is  for  t 
maigre  daj^  use  neilber  foM^I^  veal^  or  bam ;  but  none  of 
the  lean  meat  can  be  spared  for  loade  diahes^  a9  it  mil  idl 
be  wanted  for  tbe  soup ;  aud  it  IHceMnse  req^es  neafly 
double  die  qiumtity  of  tiartle  kerbs. ' 

A  DEVONSHIRE;  SQUAB  PIE. 

Cover  the  bottom  of  the  dish  with  mutton  chops^  cot 
from^  tbe  loin;  Cut  tire  bone  out^  and  part  of  t^e  fat ; 
seasoa  it  with  pepper  and  salt;  then  cover  the  muttcm 
with  apples  and  cucumber,"  an  equal  quantity ;  then  cover 
them  over  with  mutton  chops,  and  season  them  as  before  ; 
cover  the  mutton  over  with  apples  and  cucumber;  Aeo 
lay  mutton  over  them,  and  season  it;  put  a  little  good 
gravy  in,  and  then  cover  the  dish  over  with  puff  paste; 
and  finish  it  as  all  other  meat  pies. 

A  MUTTON  AND  POTATOE  PIE^ 

Baked  in  a  MoM,  the  same  as  h  Timball. 

Bail  some  potatoes  ;  they  should  be  of  the  mealy  kind  ; 
masb  them^  and  rub  them  through  a  hair-sieve  ;  then  mix 
three  eggs,  warm  about  two  ounces  of  butter^  and  mix 
all  up ;  put  a  little  salt  in  ;  then  tine  the  mould  (the  saitte 
a&for  a  timball^  with  paste;  first  butter  the  mould ;  tbeft 
put  in  some  bread  crumbs^  aUd  shake  them  about  Ike 
mould,  to  make  as  many  stick  to  the  butter  as  you  cam) ; 
sprinkle  a  little  pepper^  salt^  chopped  shalot^  parsley^  mi 
a  little  thyme,  on  the  bottoms ;  then  put  in  as  mnch 
mutton  as  will  cover  the  bottom;  then  sea^n .as  before^ 
and  put  more  mutton,  and  season  every  layer ;  cov^r  it 
over  with  tbe  potatoes^  and  e^  it  well  over ;  thiett  puit  it 
in<  the  oven  to  bake;  when  dbne^  tarn  it  out>  and  put 
some  good  gravy  iii  the  dish« 

TO  CURE  BACON  AND  HAM& 

Lay  the  bac6n^hbg  on  the  blocks  back^  upwlu^s ;  firtt 
cut  the  head  off;  then  a  cbine  out^  all  the  y^y  dcjtvmi 


457 

liex^  cul  out  die  hams ;  then  the  ispare-^ribsr  and  griskiiis^ 

take  the   blade-bones  from    the    flitches;    spriukle   the 

griskins^  spare-ribs^  and  blade-bones^  with  salt^  and  hang 

theni  up  until  wanted ;  pound  half  a  pound  of  saltpetre^ 

one  pound*  of  bay-salt^  and  half  a  pound  of  salt  prunelle, 

veiy  fine^  and  divide  it  into  four  parts ;  then  rub  the  hams 

and  flitches   on  the  under-side;  lay  the  flitches  on  th« 

1>ench^  or  in  a  tub  for  the  piifpose^  and  the  hams  on  the 

flitches^  rind  side  downwards;  the  choppers  should  have 

about  an  ounce  of  saltpetre^  and  a  quarter  of  a  pound 

bf   bay-salt^  both   pounded  very  fine^   and   rubbed    on 

them;  then  lay   them   on   the  flitches;  when  they  have 

lain  about  three  days^  put  four  pounds  of  salt^  and^  one  of 

bay-salt^  and  one  pound  of.  coarse  sugar^  into   a  large 

frying-pan^  to  make  ho|^  and  rub  an  equal  quantity  on  each 

ham  and  each  flitch^  and  lay  them  on  the  bench  as  before  ; 

the  hams  are  best  in  a  tub  ;  there  is  no  occasion  to  make 

any  brine,  as  they  will  make  brine  enough ;  lay  them  on 

the  rind  side ;  be  sure  and  put  as  much  salt  as  you  can 

where  the  hock -is  cut  -off;  and  likewise   take  out  any 

kernels  that  can  be  got  at^  and  cut  out  all  the  veins  ;  rub 

about  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  salt  on  each  chopper^  and 

put  them  in  a  pan^  or  small  tub ;  .salt  the  feet  and  e^rs, 

and  pult  them  with -the  choppers;  turn  the  hams  once  u 

.week^  and  rub  some  salt  oii  the  rind  ;  and  likewise  change 

the  bacon^  by  putting  the  top  flitch  at  the  bottom^  and 

rub  a  little  salt  on ;  put  a  pan  under  the  spout  of  the 

bench^  to  catch  the  brine ;  the  hams  should  lay  about  a 

month  or  five  weeks  in  sait>  before .  they  are  hung  up  to 

.dry  ;  they  should  be  hung  up  in  a  chimney,  where  there 

is  a  constant  fire  ;  and  they  should  be  hung  up  bjgb  in  the 

chimney^  as  t\ie  slower  they  dry  the  better ;  they  will  take 

about  three  weeks  to  dry ;  when  you  hang  the  bacoQ  up^ 

tie  a  string  very  tight  about  the  hock ;  it  is  better  than  to 

make  a  hole  in  the  flitch  ;  when  dry,  pack  it  up  in  a.  chest 

for  dhe  purpose ;  put  either  malt  dust^  or  dry  wheat  ^traw^ 

at  the  bottom  of  the  chest,  and  put  some  between  each 

X 


i^MM 


458 

ditch ;  die  hams  should  be  papered  ttp>  and  hui^  up  in  a 
di;  place ;  by  getting  damp^  they  are  apt  to  spoU. 

6LAZE  FOR  LARD{NGS,  &c. 

4 

t 

Let  the  stock  that  is  intended  for  this  use  be  as  clear  as 
possible,  and  of  a  pale  colour ;  if  the  stock  is  not  clear^  it 
should  be  cleared  with  eggs  and  run  through  the  bag;  then 
put  it  Si  the  fire  to  boil  down  to  a  glaze ;  you  will  know 
when  the  glaze  is  boiled  enough  by  its  hanging  to  tke 
spoon;  when  done>  put  it  into  your  glaze-kettle;  whM 
wanted^  put  the  ketde  into  hot-water  until  hot  for  use. 


ii 


VEaETABLES. 


^>#'#i#v»y#i#(r#N#v»^ 


HARRICOT  BEANS. 

Jl  UT  the  beans  on  to  boil ;  when  they  b^n  to  boil| 
take  them  off^  and  put  them  into  cold  water^  and  take 
off  the  outside  skin,  and  then  put  them  on  to  boil  in 
tome  gpod  stock;  when  boiled  down,  put  some  coulis  to 
thenu 

ENDIVE. 

Take  some  ^hite  endive,  what  is  generally  called 
blanched ;  put  it  into  a  stew-pan  of  cold  water ;  let  it 
come  to  a  boil ;  then  take  it  off,  and  pi^t  it  into  cold 
water  for  an  hour,  as  it  will  help  to  take  the  bittemew 
from  It ;  take  it  out  of  the  water,  and  squeeze  it  quite  dry  ; 
if,  for  a  second-course  dish,  leave  it  whole,  and  lay  it  long- 
Ways  in  a  ttew-pan,  with  sufficient  stock  to  cover  it ;  set  the 


i 


43» 

8tew*paR  Ott  the  stove  to-  matx^r,  until  it  is  nearly  re- 
duced ;  then  add  either  coulis  or  beshemell ;  if  it  is  to  be 
put  under  any  thin^  for  first  course^  it  should  be  chopped ; 
It  is  put  under  ft  neck  or  a  leg  of  mutton  r(Msted>  larded 
Bxeats^  &c. 

POTATOES- 

By  mentioning  thene^  it  may  a^ear  to  many  Ihat  I  d# 
it  to  add  to  the  number  of  pages^  but  quite  the  contrary; 
there  certainly  is  an  art  in  boiling  this  most  valuable  of  ail 
veg)&tables :  the  size  of  the  sauce*pan  muliM:  depend  on  th# 
quantity  of  potatoes  wanted ;  the  saucepan  should  be 
filled  with  potatoes^  and  then  barely  covered  with  water; 
put  a  little  salt  in  the  water ;  when  the  potatoes  come  to 
a  boil^  put  a  little  cold  water  in^  just  to  stop  the  boiling ; 
when  the  potatoes  begin  to  cracky  strain  the  water  from 
them ;  and  if  they  are  not  thoroughly  done^  by  letting  them 
stand  on  the  trivet^  over  a  slow  fire^  the  steam  wil)  do 
them,  and  make  them  dry  and  mealy. 

N.  B.  Potatoes  should  never  be  peeled  before  they  are 
boUed^  and  sent  to  table  as  hot  as  possible^ 

A  PURIEE  OF  POTATOES. 

The  potatoes  should  be  cut  in  slices,  and  put  into  ^ 
stew-pan,  with  two  ounces  of  butter,  and  half  a  pint  of 
best  stock,  and  put  it  on  a  slow  stove ;  when  done,  they 
should  be  rubbed  through  the  tammy;  and  put  a  little 
beshemell  to  them. 

N.  B.  The  potatoes,,  for  this  purpose,  should  be  of  the 
mtdiy  kind. 

1>ARSNIPS  AND  QARROTS. 

Neither  parsnips  or  carrots  should  be  scraped  before 
they  arc  boiled,  but  peeled  after  they  are  bbited ;  by  so 
4oiBg  they  look  Beat  and  clean. 


460 


GREENS. 

The  water  should  boil  quite  strong  for  b11  kinds  of 
greens^  before  they  are  put  in ;  put  salt  in  the  water^  and 
put  the  greens  in^  and  make  them  boil  as  quick  as  possi- 
ble, and  keep  them  boiling  quite  strong  until  thej  ar« 
done. 

GARDEN  BEANS. 

Garden  beans,  while  young,  should  be  sent  to  table  with 
the  white  skin  on ;  but  when  they  become  old,  the  skin 
should  be  peeled  off,  after  they  are  boiled;  by  so  doing, 
they  eat  like  young  beans^  and  look  neat :  send  parsley 
and  butter  in  a  boat. 


PEAS  PLAIN  BOILED. 

The  water  should  boil  quite  strong ;  put  salt  in  the  wa- 
ter^ and  about  an  ounce  of  loaf  i^ugar  to  a  quart  of  peas; 
tie  a  little  mint  up  in  a  bunch,  and  boil  it  with  the  ^as ; 
when  the  peas  are  done,  strain  them  into  a  hair  sieve ;  they 
should  be  drained  quite  dry,  and  the  mint  chopped  and  put 
on  the  sides  of  the  dish. 


FRENCH  BfeANS. 

Cut  them  long- Ways,  and  put  them  In  wben  the  waiter 
boils ;  put  a  little  salt  in  the  water;  when  done  strain  them 
off  through  a  hair  sieve;  be  particular  in  baying  them 
drained  dry, 

CAULIFLOWER. 

The^cauliflower  is  sometimes  boiled  whole>  andat  otber 
times  broke  in  pieces,  according  to  what  it  is  wanted 


461 

J 

for;  the  water  should  boil  before  it  is  put  in ;  and  put  sakr> 
in  the  water.    For  brocoli  follow  the  same  rule. 


ARTICHOKE  BOTTOMS. 

Cut  the  leaves  from  the  artichokes  within  an  inch  of 
the  bottom,  by  way  of  taking  up  less  room  in  what  they 
are  boiled  in ;  when  done  sufficiently  for  the^  choke  to  pull 
€»ut,  take  them  up  and  pull  out  the  choke,  and  trim  the  un- 
der part  of  the  bottoms,  and  put  them  on  earthen  dishes 
to  dry,  either  in  a  slow  oven  or  a  hot  closet ;  the  slower 
they  are  dried  the  better ;  when  quite  dry,  put  them  in  pa- 
per bags  and  hang  them  up  in  a  dry  place;  they  will  keep 
for  several  years ;  when  they  are  wanted^  put  them  in  warm 
water  to  soften  them. 


SOUR  CROUT 

Is  generally  made  about  Michaelmas,  that  being  th« 
time  the  cabbages  for  that  purpose  are  in  high  perfec- 
tion.    Cut  the  outside  leaves  off  three  or  four  deep ;  then 
cut  the  cabbages  in  quarters,  and  then  in  tliin  slices,  and 
sprinkle  them  well  with  salt ;  put  the  cabbage  into  a  tub 
for  that  purpose ;  put  in  a  layer  of  juniper  berries,  and 
then  cabbage,  and  so  on,  until  the  tub  is  quite  full  (the 
size  of  the  tub  depends  on  ^he  quantity  that  is  wanted) ; 
then  put  a  lead  weight,  cast  to  the  size  of  the  top  of 
the  tub,  and  a  ring  in  it,  to  lift  it  in  and  out  by;  it 
should  be  at  least  one  hundred  weight ;  for  the  heavier  the 
better  it  will  press  the  water  from  the  cabbage ;  as  the 
water  rises  above  the  weight,  pour  it  off,  without  taking 
off  the  weight ;  it  should  be  made  at  leasH  three  months 
before  it  is  used ;  when  any  is  wanted  for  use,  wash  it  ia 
several  warm  waters,  and  pick  out  the  juniper  berries  :  it 
is  generally  dressed  as  follows — put  sour  crout  into  a  stew- 
pan^  with  a  pint  of  stocky  and  a  pint  of  hock^  or  vin  de> 

X  3 


462 

grave,  and  a  piece  of  piclcled  pork^  on  the  top ;  put  it  on 
a  slow  stove  to  stew^  at  least  five  hours;  take  the  pork 
out,  when  well  done^  but  the  sour  crout  should  remiuQ 
on ;  and,  if  the  liquor  should  be  boiled  away^  put  a  litti» 
more;  when  done^  put  it  on  the  dish^  and  the  pork  on 
it ;  it  may  be  put  under  many  other  meats^  such  as  ox 
cheeky  stewed  beef^  ox  and  sheeps'  rumps^  roulard  of  veal 
ft  mutton^  &c« 


SUPPLEMENT, 


• 

ixLY  original  idea  in  composing  this  part^  and  the  sug*, 
gestions  of  the  friends  to  ^hom  I  am  indebted  for  the  hint^ 
led  me  at  first  to  suppose  it  would  extend  to  a  considerable 
length ;  but  on  a  more  mature  reflection^  and  on  looking 
over  my  work  again^  T   found  that  I  had  interspersed  a 
number  of  dishes  in  the  course  of  the  former  part,  the 
economy  of  which  would  render  them  very  useful  to  even 
the   smallest  families;  while  I  had^  nevertheless^  endea- 
voured also,  by  little  savoury  additions,  to  render  them 
tasty,  and  not  unsuitable  for  families  whose  opulence  in* 
duced  them  to  go  to  a  greater  expense  in  the  furnishing  of 
their  tables.     Sensible,  also,  that  the  pains  I  have  taken  ia 
compiling  my  Index  will  lead  every  careful  reader  to  the 
finding  them  out  easily  in  the  bo€|y  of  the  book,  I  have 
confined  myself  more  particularly  in  the  present  instance 
to  a  new  set  of  receipts  for  gravies,  sauces,,  and  a  few  eco- 
nomical dishes,  together  with  a  copious  set  of  bills  of  fare 
for  private  families,  of  which  most  of  the  dishes  have  been 
already  described*     This  I  consider  also  a  more  useful  and 
beneficial  mode,  as  the  hints  and  ideas  thrown  out  by  my 
bills  of  fare  will  be  amply  sufficient  for  any  judicious  cookj 
or  head  of  a  family,  and  who  might  perhaps,  indeed,  con* 
sider  it  an  insult  to  their  understanding,  if  I  descended  ^^o^ 
much  into  the  minuliae;  as  surely  every  person,  who  has 
had  any  experience,  will  know  quite  sufficiently  how  to  sup- 
ply, by  a  more  economical  article,  any  ingredient  wbick 
they  may  deem  too  expensive  in  any  of  my  previous  receipts ; 
but  for  which,  I  trust,  they  will  not  find  much  necessity ; 


4G4 

as  I  hare  throughout  borne  in  view,  the  interest  of  my 
readers,  while  I  endeavoured  also  to  purvey  what  should 
be  agreeable  to  their  palates. 

It  may  not  be^^unnecessary  here  to  remsurk^  that,  if  T 
have  taken  no  nptice  of  a  variety  of  receipts  intended  only 
for  donaestic  purposes^  it  is  because  I  do  not '  consider 
such  at  all  relevant  to  a  Book  of  Cookery;  and  as  a 
divided  attention  too  often  fails  of  producing  good  effect 
in  any  part  of  the  original  intentions,  I  trust  by  confining 
myself  to  the  real  purport  of  my  work  I  shall  have  more 
amply  fulfilled  my  duty  to  my  reader  and  the  public,  iii 
endeavouring  to  present  them  with  the  most  useful  and 
complete  culinary  system,  than  by  adding  a  number  of  ar- 
ticles of  which  I  could  at  most  have  but  a  superficisd 
knowledge. 


ADDITIONAL  RECEIPTS 

THE  MOST  ECONOMICAL  PRINCIPLE. 


ti#^^«sr#^s«  ♦^^r****^ 


GRAVIES  FOR   SOUPS   AND   SAUCES. 

A.  LEG  or  a  shin  of  beef  is  the  best  part  to  make  gravy- 
soup,  or  for  sauces.  Cut  the  meat  m  thin  slices^  an^ 
chop  the  bone  ia  several  pieces ;  put  a  little  water  in  the 
pot  or  sauce-pan ;  then  put  in  the  meat  and  bones,  four 
or  five  onions,  a  few  leeks,  a  bunch  of  thyme  and  parsley, 
(he  trimmings  of  three  or  four  heads  of  celery,  two 
carrots,  and  two  turnips,  and  a  little  salt;  set  the  pot 
•ver  the  fire  on  the  trivet ;  let  it  boil  slow  until  all 


4(fe 

€ke  liquor  is  boiled  a^ay>  and  the  meat  at  the  bottom  is 
thrown  (which  you  will  know  by  the  smell) ;  iill  the  pot  up 
M'ith  cold  water ;  and  when  it  begins  t%.boil  skim  it^  and 
put.  a  little  cold  water  to  make  the  skum  rise  again  ;  then 
stir  it  well  up  from  the  bottom  with  a  slice  or  spoon^  and 
put  a  little  more  cold  water  ;  it  should  boil  very  slow  for 
about  four  hoursj  then  strain  it  off  and  put  the  pot  over 
the  fire  again ;  fill  it  half  full  with  water^  and  let  it  boil 
slow  for  two  or  three  hours^  then  strain  it  off;,  it  will 
do  for  gravy  or  any  other  use  it  may  be  wanted  for.. 

N,B.  The  quantity  of  meat^,  and  the  size  of  the  pot^ 
must  depend  on  the  quantity  of  gravy  wanted.  A  pound 
of  meat  >vill  make  a  quart  of  good  soup  by  following 
the  above  methods 

BROWN  SAUCE. 

Put  about  an  ounce  of  butter  into  a  small  stew^pan^and 
net  it  over  the  fire  to  melt  ;•  let  it  get  quite  brown ;  theh 
put  in  a  table  spoopful  of  flour ;  stir  it  round  with  a  spoon ; 
ivhen  well  mixed^  put  in  a  pint  of  gravy  a  little  at  a  time; 
add  about  two  spoonsful  of  mushroom  catsup  and  one  of 
M^alnut ;  let  it  boil  a  few  minutes  ;  then  strain  it  through  a 
hair-sieve  for  use,. 

N.  B.  Wlien  you  want  white  sauce  follow  the  same 
method^  only  leave  out  the  eatsup^  and  do  not  let  the 
butter  get  brown  ;  instead  of  apint  use  half  a  pint  of  stocky 
and  half  a  pint  of  cream. 

GRAVY  SOUP- 

For  two  q«art8>  which   is  the  proper  quantity  for  a  tu- 

r€ene,cut  half  a  carrot,  half  a  turnip,  two  heads  of  celery^ 

one  large  onion,  and  one  leek,  into  small  dice ;  put  them. 

.  in  a  stew-pan  or  sauce-pan,  and  about  half  a  pint  of  gravy  ; 

put  the  cover  on,  and  set  it  over  a  slow  fire  to  stew  very 

\low  u^itil  the  liquor  is  boiled  nearly  all'  away  5  then  fill  it* 

x4      '    - 


466 

lip  with  gravy  and  let  it  boil  a  few  nuQutes ;  then  set  It  hj 
till  wanted. 

GIBLET  SOUP. 

For  one  tureene>  one  set  of  giblets  is  sufficient ;  scdd 
the  giblets  very  clean^  and  singe  the  pinions  over  a  t;lear 
fire,  or  with  paper ;  cut  each  pinion  in  four  pieces^  and  ths 
neck  in  about  six  ;  sptit  the  head ;  cut  the  beak  oiF  and 
throw  it  away^  it  being  never  used ;  cut  each  foot  in  diree ; 
split  the  heart ;  ciit  the  gizard  in  about  eight  pieces  and 
the  liver  in  two ;  put  all  into  a  sauce-pan  that  'wiU  hold 
about  three  quarts ;  fill  it  up  with  cold  water ;  set  it  over 
the  fire ;  when  it  begins  to  boil  pour  the  water  off,  and 
wash  the  giblets  severid  times ;  then  put  them  into  the 
saucepan  and  about  half  a  pint  of  water^  and  set  them  on 
the  fire  to  stew  until  the  water  is  all  boiled  away ;  then  put 
in  one  quart  of  gravy  and  one  qqart  of  water>  and  set  it 
over  a  slow  fire  to  boil  tintil  the  giblets  are  quite  tender; 
wUile  tbey  are  boiling,  put  a  quarter  ^f  .a  pound  of  petal 
barlev  on  to  boil  for  a  few  minutes ;  then  strain  the  «waler 
from  it^  and  put  the  barjey  to  dici  giblets  to  hoii  ibr  aboat  a 
quarter  of  au  hour^  o^  i^it^  the  giblets  are  quite  tender; 
akim  the  fat  ^quite  clean  off;  before  it  is  served  i^  add  a 
little  salt. 

PEA  SOUP  AND  PICKLED  PORK. 

Put  a  pint  of  split  peas  into  a  $tew-pan ;  slice  in  four 
or  five  onions^  four  heads  of  celery^  a  little  mint,  -  a  quarr 
(er  of  a  pound  of  fresh  butter^  two  quarts  of  water^  and 
a  piece  of  pickled  pork  ;  it  should  be  either  the  hand  or  a 
piece  of  the  belly^  about  two  pounds  ;  put  it  on  the  fire  to 
boil  slow  until  the  peas  are  boiled  sufficient  to  rub  through 
a  hair-sieve ;  take  the  pork  out  and  coyer  it  up  till  wanted; 
rub  the  soup  through  when  done ;  put  it  back  into  the  stew 
pan  to  keep  hot  till  wanted;  put  the  pork  iu  the  tureenej 
then  the  soup 

N.B.     When    pea    soup    is    sent  up  without   the 
pork^   cut  some  cruiipb  of    bread  into  mce;  fry  tham 


i 


l^own  ;  then  put  them  in  the  tui^ene  and  the  soup  over 
them. 

ONION  SOUR 

Slice  8i;Kor  eight  large  onions,  and  put  them  in  a  stew- 
pan  or  sauce-pan  that  >¥in  hold  about  three  quarts;  p^ 
a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter,  crumbs  of  bread  i^irfhcient 
to  thkken  it^  and  about  three  pints  of  gravy  and  one  of 
water ;  set  it  on  the  fire  to  boil  very  slow  for  three  hours, 
then  rub  it  through  a  hairnsieve  ;  add  a  little  salt ;  if  for 
maigre,  put  no  gravy  m. 

HASTY  MUTTON. 

.  Put  half  a  pint  of  water  into  a  stew-pan  or  sauce-pan ; 
Aen  cut  a  small  leg  of  mutton  into  slices ;  cover  the  bot- 
tom of  the  stew-pan  with  it  ;■  then  put  an  onion  cut  in 
alices^  ahead  of  celery  cut  fine^  and  slices  of  carrot,  tur- 
nip, and  the  crust  of  a  loaf  cut  in  slices  6ver  the  roots; 
^en  put  a  layer  of  mutton  over  the  bread,  and  sprinkle  it 
with  salt ;  then  put  roots,  bread,  &c.  over  that,  and  so  on 
until  all  is  in  ;  then  cover  it  down  very  close,  and  put  it 
over  a  slow  stove  for  about  fifteen  minutes ;  then  fill  up  the 
stew-pan  with  hot  water  and  make  it  boil  as  quick  as  you 
can ;  when  it  boils,  set  it  by  the  side  of  the  fire  to  boil  slow 
for  a  quarter  of  an  hour ;  skim  the  fat  off  before  you  put 
k  in  the  tureene ;  add  silittle  salt  if  wanted. 

SOUP  AND  BOUILLIE         .      • 

Is  done  as  folloM^s  :  get  a  piece  of  the  brisket  of  beef; 
about  three  pounds  are  sufficient  for  a  tureene;  take  the  bone 
out  and  tie  the  beef  up  with  pajck-thread ;  then  put  it  into^ 
a  stew-pan  with  the  bones  j  add  a  bunch  of  thyme  aiid 
parsley,  a  little  all-spice^  and  a  Httle  whole  black  pepper ; 
put  in  a  quart  of  water,  five  or  six  onions,  some  trimmings 
ef  celery^  a  carrot  and  a  turnip ;  put  it  on  a  slow  fire  to 


i*/. 


46S 

stew  for  two  bours^  or  until  tbe  liquor  is  alt  boiled  away^ , 
and  the  meat  begins  to  stick  to  the  bottom  of  the  stew-pan  ^ , 
then  put  about  two  quarts  of  hot  water  to  it  and  make  it 
boil  as  soon  as  you  can^  but  it  should  boil  very  slow  until  the 
beef  is  nearly  tender  enough ;  then  take  it  up  and  strain  the 
liquor  through  a  hair-sieve ;  skim  all  the  fat  off  quite  cleaa  ; 
have  some  turnips^  carrots^  md  celery  cut  in  dice;  about . 
two  dozen  of  small  onions  peeled,  without  cutting  the  root ; . 
put  the  beef  into  the  stew-pan  with  the  roots.^  and  about, 
half  a  pint  of  the  liquor  belonging  to  it,  set  it  od  a  sloyr 
£re  to  stew  gently  until  the  liquor  is  all  boiled  away ;  theii< 
put  in  the  remainder  of  the  liquor  and  a  pint  of  water  ;; 
let  it  boil  very  gently  until  the  beef  is   quite  tender ;  put 
the  beef  on  a  dish  by  itself,  and  the  soup  in  a  tureene  ;  skim 
the  fat  clean  off  and  add  a  little  salt. 
]N,.B,  Sprinkle  tlie  beef  over  witli  chopped  parsley. 

A  TUREENE  OF  MUTTON  AND  BROTH.    . 

Cut  two  scrags  of  mutton  into  pieces  like  chops;  put 
them  in  a  stew-pan  that  will  hold  about  three  quarts  ;  cut 
one  large  carrot,  or  two  small  ones.  Into  dice,  and  one, 
turnip  the  same ;  two  heads  of  celery,  and  two  large  onions 
cut  fine  and  put  all  over  the  mutton,  and  sprinkle  a  little 
salt  over  them ;  put  in  a  pint  of  water,  and  put  it  on  a  slow 
fire  to  simmer  gently  until  all  the  liquor  is  boiled  away ; 
then  put  in  two  quarts  of  hot  water,  and  skim  all  the  fat 
off ;  set  it  by  the  side  of  the  fire  to  boil  quite  slow,  and, 
as  the  scum  rises,  skim  it  off;  when  boiled  enough,  set  it 
by  till  wanted. 

IRISH  STEW. 

^  _  r 

Cut  the  mutton  intended  for  the  stew  into  chops  j^ 
chop  one  large  onion  very  fine  ;  peel  the  .potatoes  and  cut 
them  in  two  ;  put  the  chops  in  the  stew-pan,  and  sprinkle, 
them  over  with  pepper  and  salt  and  the  chopped  onion  j 
Aen  cover  the  meat  over  with  the  potatoes ;  then  put  chops 
ever  them  and  season  a«  before^  a^d   put  potatoes  and. 


469 

spritikie  them  over  with  pepper,  salt^  and  an'  onion;  put 
about  half  a  pint  of  water  in  the  stew-pan>  and  set  it  over 
a  slow  fire  to  simmer  gently  until  the  potatoes  are  done  i 
put  the  meat  round  the  dish  and  the  potatoes  in  the  middle> 
and  the  liquor  over  them  ;  skim  the  fat  off  first, 

BOILED  DUCKS  AND  ONION  SAUCE. 

Draw  the  legs  of  the  ducks  in  the  same  as  a  fowl  for 
boiling ;  they  will  take  about  twenty  minutes  boiling :  make 
the  sauce  as  follows— for  two  ducks^  boil  eight  large 
onions  and  chop  them  fine  ;  then  put  them  into  a  stew- 
pan  and  a  table  spoonful  of  fiour^  and  mix  it  .well  with  the 
onions ;  then  put  in  about  two  ounces  of  butter  and  about 
a  gill  of  cream  ;  set  it  on  the  fire  and  keep  stirring  it  un- 
til it  boils  for  about  two  minutes  ;  put  the  ducks  on  the 
dish  and  the  sauce  over  them. 

BEEF  STEAKS  AND  ONIONS. 

The  steaks  for  this  purpose  should  be  fVied^  and  nicelj 
seasoned  with  pepper  and  salt :  when  the  steaks  are  don^, 
then  put  in  the  sliced  onions  and  fry  them  of  a  nice  brown  ; 
put  the  steaks  on  the  dish  and  the  onions  ov^r  them ;  put  a 
little  mushroom  catsup  and  a  little  gravy  in  the  frying-pan; 
first  put  a  little  dust  of  ilour  sufficient  to  make  it  thick  ;  let 
it  boil  about  one  minute  and  pour  it  over  the  steaks. 

BUBBLE  AND  SQUEAK 

Is  made  from  the  remains  of  boiled  salt  beefleft  from  a 
former  dinner.  *Cut  the  beef  in  neat  slices  and  put  it  be- 
tween two  plates  till  wanted  ;  if  there  is  any  cabbage  left' 
from  the  last  dinner  it  will  answer  the  purpose ;  it  should 
be  squeezed  very  dry^  and  then  chopped  very  fine  ;  put  a 
little  clean  dripping  into  the  frying-pan  ;  when  hot^  put  in 
the  beef;  sprinkle  it  with  a  very  little  pepper,  and  fry  it  of 
a  nice  brown  ;  season  both  sides  ;  when  the  beef  is  doncj 
take  it  up  and  put  it  to  keep  hot  while  the  cabbage  is  frying; 


470 

the  cabbage  should  felcept  slirring  about  while  over  thefts; 
it  should  bellied  until  all  the  fat  is  dried  up :  put  the  cab^ 
bage  on  the  middle  of  the  di^h  and  the  beef  round  it. 

HASHED  BEEF  AND  BROILED  BONES. 

Take  roast  beef  left  from  a  former  dinner ;  cut  the 
meat  in  as  neat  pieces  as  the  beef  will  admit ;  the  bones 
that  are  intended  for  broilifig  should  be  cut  shorty  so  as  to 
look  neat  on  tlie  dififh ;  and  likey^ise  they  should  tiot  be 
stripped  very  bare  of  the  meat ;  score  them^  liien  pepper 
and  salt  them^  and  broil  them  over  a  clear  fire ;  put  thcf^^ 
trimmii^  of  the  bones  and  meat  into  a  stew*pan  or  sauce* 
pan,  with  two  onions  and  a  pint  of  water ;  set  it  on  to  boil 
slow  for  an  hour ;  be  careftil  not  to  let  it  boil  fast ;  when 
boiled  enough  strain  it  into  a  basin  ;  then  put  about  hdlf  » 
spoonful  of  flour  over  the  meat  with  a  drudging-box^  then 
put  the  meat  into  a  stew-pan  and  pour  in  the  liquor  the  i 
bones  were  boiled  in,  and  toss  it  up  by  way  of  mixing  the  ' 
flour  and  liquor  :  set  it  on  the  stovejust  to  boil  sufliciently 
to  take  the  rawness  of  the  flour  off;  put  in  about  a  table 
spoonful  of  wabnit  and  the  same  of  mushroom  catsup;  cut 
two  gerkins  in^  and  season  it  with  a  little  pepper  and  saltf 
put  the  hash  on  the  dish  firsts  and  the  bones  on  the  hash. 

N.  B.  No  meat  that  is  hashed  should  boil  more  than  » 
muiute. 

HASHED  MUTTON  AND  BROILED  BLADE- 

BONE. 

Follow  the  same  method  as  hashed  .beef  aad  broile^F 
bones,  and  a  shoulder  of  lamb  the  same. 

BREAST  OF  MUTTON  BROILEDv 

Cut  the  bone  off,  and  take  the  skin  off  the  thin  em! 
and  put  it  into  a  stew-pan  with  a  pint  of  water>  and 
two  or  three  onions^  a  bunch  of  thyme  and  parsley^  a  head 
of  celery  cut  in  pieces^  half  a  turnip  and  half  a  carrot  cut 


-471 

in  dice ;  set  iti>n  the  fire  to  siewvery  ^low  toatil  ihe  bonw 
mil  puli  out ;  then  take  it  up ;  pull  tbe  bones  out  and  put 
them  into  the  stew-pan  and  a  pint  and  a  half  of  hot  wa- 
ter^ then  put  it  on  to  boil  for  half  an  hour;  skim  the  fat 
e£f  and  send  it  up  in  a  tureene.  Score  the  breast  of  mutton 
mnd  pepper  and  salt  it ;  put  it  on  to  broil  over  a  clear  fire; 
it  4slMuild  be  broiled  of  a  nice  brx>wn^  >ai)d  very  eiisp  ;  chop 
a  little  shalot  and  put  it  on  the  dish^  aed  tabout  an  ounce  <^ 
butter^  and  a  little  mushroom  and  walnut  catsup ;  rub  a 
litk  bit  of  cold  butter  over  the  mutton  after  it  is  foroiled^ 
then  put  the  mutton  on  the  dish. 

A  SHOULDER  OF  MUTTON  ROASTED,  AND 

SMALL  ONIONS. 

A  shoulder  of  mutton  will  take  about  an.  hour  and  a 
half  to  roast,  supposing  it  to  be  about  six  pounds  weight ; 
peel  about  three  dozen  of  small  onions,  and  put  them  on 
to  boil,  in  a  little  ^ravy ;  when  boiled  suiBcient  (but  be 
careful  that  they  do  not  break),  put  the  onions  round  the 
dish  J  then  the  gravy,  and  then  the  mutton :  at  other  times 
send  onipn  sauce  in  a  boat. 

A  LEG  OF  MUTTON  BOILED,  AND  TURNIPS. 

A  leg  of  mutton,  of  about  seven  pounds,  will  take 
about  three  hours  boilings  as  boiled  meat  should  be  well 
done ;  mash  the  turnips ;  first  squeze  them  very  dry  ;  put 
them  into  a  sauce-pan,  about  an  ounce  of  butter,  and 
about  half  a  gill  of  cream,  a  little  white  pepper,  and 
salt ;  make  them  quite  hot ;  put  them  round  the  dish,  and 
the  mutton  in  the  middle;  garnish  with  carrot;  send 
caper  sauce  in  a  boat.  Caper  sauce  is  made  as  follows : — 
chop  the  capers,  put  them  in  a  butter-boat,  and  put  melted 
Ecflter  to  diam. 

N.B.  A  neck  of  mutton  boiled,  will  take  about  an 
hour  andalialf  ^  the  chine  bone  sihouU  always  be  sawed 


.  ■  -       • 

off,  to  make  tt  easy  to  carve.  It  should  be  tbe  'study  of 
the  cook  to  make  whatever  joint  goes  to  the  table^  easy 
for  carving. 

A  SPRING  OF  PORK  ROLLED. 

A  spring  of  pork  means  the  hand  and  breast ;  it  should 
be  bonedj  and  sprinkled  well  with  sage  and  onions^ 
chopped  very  fine,  and  mixed  with  pepper  and  salt ;-  then 
rolled  round  lilce  a  collar,  and  fastened  together  with  a 
skewer ;  then  put  it  on  the  spit,  and  put  it  dbwn  to  roast*; 
when  it  has  been  about  five  minutes  at  the  fire,  score  it  ^ 
it  will  take  about  an  hour  and  a  half  to  roast. 

N.  B.  AH  joints  of  pork  that  are  roasted  should  be 
scored. 

A  LEG  OF  PORK  ROASTED, 

Will  take  about  two  hours  and  a  half;  if  a  very  larga 
one,  it  will,  of  course,  take  longer.  If  you  wish  to  stuijE 
it  with  sage  and  onions,  it  should  be  put  in  at  the  knuckle;, 
and  to  all  rodst  pork  send  up  apple,  sauce... 

NECK  OF  PORK  ROASTED^ 

A  neck  of  pork  will  take  about  one  hour  and  a  half  to* 
roast ;  there  is  part  of  the  blade-bone  generally  left  in  by  " 
the  butcher,  which,  the  cook,  should  make  it  a  rule  to  take 
out  before  it  is  put  on  the  spit ;  and  put  chopped  sage 
and  onions  where  the  bone,  is  taken  out.^ 

A  LEG  OF  PORK  BOILED,  AND  PEAS 

PUDDING. 

The  leg  of  pork  should  be  about  one  week  in  sdf>. 
before  it  is  in  order  for  boiling ;  the  time  it  will  take  to 
boil  must  depend  on  the  size.    (Vhe  cook»should  make  it 


■  111111"         'JTi 


■^ 


478 

an  .invariable  iiik>  that  pork,  either,  boiled  or  roasted) 
should  be  rather  over  than  under  done,  and  veal  the  same.) 
Xhe  peas  pudding  is  made  as  follows : — wash  a  pint  of 
splits  peas  ^  then  put  the;m  in  a  clean  cloth,  and  tie  themi 
up;  leave  plenty  of  room  for  the  peas  to  swell;  when 
boiled  enough,  take  them  up,  untie  the  cloth,  put  the  peas 
into  a  basin,  and  bruise  them  with  the  back  of  a  wooden 
spoon ;  then  put  in.  about  two  ounces  of  butter,  and  two 
eggs;  mix  them  with  the  peas;  return  them  into  the 
cloth,  and  put  it  to  boil  for  about  half  an  hour;  when 
the  pork  is  done,  take  it  up,  and  put  it  on  the  dish,  the 
rind  side  upwards  ;  put  greens  round  the  dish,  and  garnish 
>vith  carrots;  put  the  peas  pudding  on  another  dish,  and 
|Mit  a  little  melted  butter  over  it* 

A  PIG'S  HEAD  ROASTED, 

Split  the  head,  chop  off  the  nostril  bones,  take  out  tht 
brains,  and  put  them  in  water ;  take  the  tongue  out  whole, 
and  salt  it;  put  a  skewer  across  the  head,  and  put  the 
spit  under  the  skewers ;  it  will  take  about  an  hour  to 
roast.  Make  the  sauce  as  follows : — put  the  brains  on 
to  boil,  and  scfew  leaves  of  sage  with  them ;  when  done, 
chop  them  very  fine,  and  an  egg  (boiled  hard)  with  them ; 
put  them  into  a  small  sauce-pan,  and  a  little  gravy  and 
n)elted  butter ;  put  the  sauce  on  the  dish,  and  then  th# 
head. 

PORK  CHOPS.         , 

A  loin  of  pork  is  generally  cut  up  in  chops, and  broiled; 
they  should  be  broiled  oyer  a  very  clear  fire ;  put  mashed 
potatoes  on  the  dish,  and  the  chops  on  the  potatoes. 

BOILkD  TRIPE  AND  ONIONS. 

/The"«:.ipe  should  be  cut  in  pieces,  about  two  iuchef 

"^square  ;  peel  as  many  onions  as  is  wanted,  and  put  them 

^d  the  tripe  into  a  sauce^pan,  and  as  jnuch  water  as  vnll 


\ 


474 

•over  the  tripe ;  put  in  a  little  milk^  and  a  little  salt ;  Htm 
Bet  it  on  to  boil^  until  the  onions  are  well  done ;  onions 
cannot  be  boiled  too  much ;  for  the  more  they  are  boiled 
in  reason,  the  milder  they  are  :  it  should  be  sent  to  table 
in  a  tureene. 


FRICASSEE  OF  TRIPE,  AND  ONION  SAUCE. 

The  tripe  should  not  be  more-  than  half  the  size,  for 
this  purpose,  to  that  which  goes  up  in  a  tureene ;  the  oniao 
sauce  is  made  the  same  way  as  for  boiled  ducks ,'  boil  the 
tripe  the  same  way  as  for  a  tureene ;  when  the  tripe  u 
taken  up,  lay  it  on  a  clean  clothe  to  drain  the  liquor  from 
it ;  then  put  it  on  the  dish,  and  the  onion  sauce  over  it. 


TRIPE  FRIED  IN  BATTER. 

Make  the  batter  thicker  than  for  a  pudding,  cut  the  tripe 
the  same  as  for  a  fricassee;  have  some  hot  drippings 
put  the  tripe  in  the  batter,  and  take  it  out  one  piece  at  a 
time,  with  either  a  fork  or  a  skewer,  and  put  it  into  the 
liot  dripping,  or  lard,  whichever  is  most  convenient  (for 
my  part,  i  should  prefer  dripping) ;  fry  it  of  a  nice  brown; 
when  done,  put  it  on  the  back  of  a  sieve,  to  drain  the  fat 
from  it;  then  fry  some  parsley,  that  has  been  picked  and 
dried  before  the  fire ;  put  the  tripe  round  the  dish,  and 
the  parsley  in  the  middle. 

A  NEAT'S  FOOT  FRIED, 

Commonly  called  a  Cotsfs  Heel. 

The  cow's  heels  are,  in  general,  boi      .  ^  ■. 

^t  one  into  hot  water,  to  soften  it ;  ta'»v'   ar: 
bones  out  as  you  cati ;  cut  it  in  neat  pi  >. 
the  same  as  ined  tripe. 


*7^ 


A  COW'S  HEEL  STEWED,  &c. 

Put  the  cow's  heel  into  hot  water,  «o  as  to  pull  all  the 
bones  out,  and  cut  it  into  square  pieces,  as  large'as  it  will 
admit  of;  put  it  into  a  stew-pan,  with  about  one  pint  of 
good  gravy,  and  set  it  over  a  slow  fire  to  stew  for  abbut 
lialf  an  hour ;  then  take  it  o£f ;  then  put  a  bit  of  butter 
into  a  stew-pan  to  melt,  and  get  brown ;  then  put  as  much 
flour  as  will  dry  it  up ;  dien  put  gravy  sufficient  to  make 
it  of  a  nice  thickness ;  add  one  glass  of  sherry  wine ; 
season  it  with  a  little  Cayenne  pepper  and  salt,  and  about 
half  a  tea  spoonful  of  soy ;  put  a  few  egg  baUs,  and  forced 
Hieat  balls. 

HARRICOT  OF  MUTTON. 

Cut  the  chops  rather  thicker  than  for  broiling ;  season 
,  them  on  both  sides  with  pepper  and  salt ;  fry  them  of  a 

^ce  .brown  on  both  sides^  but  not  thorough ;  put  them 

in  a  stew-'*">  with  a  pnliot  %n»ty ;  tiarc  s\>.taw  v»«.x^w««ir% 

turnips  ut  in  dice,  and  put  them  to  the  mutton,  and  a  few 

small  .iiions ;  set  the  stew-pan  on  the  stove  to  simmer, 

unt'Hhe  roots  are  done,  but  not  broke;  then  take  the 

«tw-pan  from  the  fire;  put  about  one  ounce  of  butter 

tfito  a  stew-pan  to  rodt,  and  get  brown ;  then  put  in  ^flour 

to  dry  up  the  butter ;  keep  stirring  it  over  the  fire ;  then 

^ur  in  the  gravy  from  the  chops  and  roots;  add  a  little 

walnut  and  mushroom  catsup ;  put  the  chops  round  the 

dish,  and  the  roots  in  the  middle. 

VEAL  CUTLETS. 

Cut  the  cutlets  from  the  leg,  and  flat  them  with  the 
chopper ;  then  cut  half  as  many  slices  of  streaky  bacon, 
about  two  or  three  inches  long;  fry  the  bacon  of  a  nice 
brown ;  then  put  it  into  a  stew-pan ;  pour  nearly  all  the 
fat  that  comes  from  the  bacon  out  of  the  frying-pan  on  a 


4?«- 

plate;  then  put  ia  the  veal  cutlets^  and  fry  them  of  a  nice 
brown  on  both  sides ;  then  put  them  to  the  bacon  ;  dust 
some  flour  in  the  frying-pan^  and  put  about  half  a  pint  of 
gravy^  and.  a  little  mushroom  and  walnut  catsup  ;  let  it 
boil  a  minute  or  two ;  keep  stirring  it  about  with  a  spoon ; 
then  strain  it  through  a  hair-sieve  into  the  stew-pan^  that 
has  the  veal  and  bacon ;  squeze  a  little  lemon-juice^  and 
season  it  with  a  little  white  pepper* 

VEAL  CUTLETS,  WITH  BREAD  CRUMBS,  &c. 

Cut  the  cutlets  from  the  leg^  and  flat  them  ;  then  chop 
a  little  thyme  and  parsley  very  fine,  and  mix  them  with 
bread  crumbs^  and  a  little  pepper  and  salt ;  then  break  an 
^gg^  and  beat  it  up ;  then  dip  the  cutlets  in  ^one  at  a 
time),  and  roll  them  in  the  bread  crumbs;  fiake  as  many 
stick  to  them  as  you  c^,  on  both  sides ;  fry  four  slices  of 
bacoji;  when  done^  take  them  op^  put  in  the  veal  cutlets^ 
and  fry  them  of  a  nice  brown;  when  done^  put  them 
round  the  dish^  and  a  little  brown  sauce  i^^  the  middle: 

FRIED  RABBIT. 

Cut  the  rabbit  up^^  and  flour  it  well ;  put  a  litde  clea 
dripping  into  the  frying-pan  ;  when  hot,  put  in  the  rabbity 
and  fry  it  of  a  nice  brown  ;  put  about  an  ounce  of  butter 
on  a  dish,  a  little  chopped  shalot,  and  n  little  catsups 
then  the  rabbit. 

A  MUTTON  PIE,  WITH  OR  WITHOUT 

POTATOES. 

Cut  the  chops  either  from  the  neck  or  loin ;  fiat  the 
chops,  and  trim  some  of  the  fat  off* ;  put  a  little  gravy  in 
the  dish ;  then  put  in  as  many  chops  as  will  cover  the 
bottom  of  the  dish  ;  season  them  with  pepper  and  salt ; 
then  cover  the  chops  over  with  potatoes^  cut  in  half,  and 


477 

ipritikle  a  little  pepper  and  salt  t)ver  thetn ;  then  cover  the 
potatoes  over  with  cbops^  and  season  them^  and  then 
potatoes^  and  so  on^  till  the  dish  is  as  full  as  wanted; 
QOver.it  over  with  family  paste^  and  egg  the  paste  over* 
AU  meat  pies  should  be  ^ged  over^ 

BEEF  STEAK  PIE. 

^  <3at  the 'Steaks  father  thinner  than  for  broiling;  season 
them  with  pepper  and  salt ;  put  a  little  gravy  in  the  (fish  ; 
then  put  in  the  beef  steaks^  and  a  little  more  gravy ;  cover 
the  dish  with  family  paste.  It  will  take  rather  more  than 
^n  hour  to  bake. 

MARROW  BONES. 

Scrape  all  the  meat  £i:om  the  shoulder  bones^  or  the  leg 
1)ones  ;  saw  them  acroasj  and  trim  th^  ends^  so  as  to' make 
tbenoL  stand  upon  the  dish  ;  put  a  bit  of  paste^  made  with: 
Aour  and  wateo  over  the  top  of  each  bone^  to  prevent  the 
marrow  from  boiling  out ;  tie  them  up  in  a  cloth^  and  put 
them  on  to  bpil^  send  dry  toast  up  with  the  bones,    • 

VEAL  PIE. 
Follow  the  same  method  as  a  beef  steak  pie. 

MUTTON  CHOPS. 

'  The  chops  should  be  cut  either  from  the  neck  or  loin  ; 

tfim  some  of  the  fat  off;  flat  them^  and  broil  them  over  a 

dear  fire;  season  them  with  pepper  and  salt;  make  the 

,~  dish  very  hot ;  make  it  a  rule  never  to  put  gravy  either  to 

I  beef  steak  or  mutton  chopiS ;  th^y  should  be  sent  to  table 

.   as  hot  as  possible^  and  covered  over:  there  is  not  any  part 

of  cookery  requires  more  attention  than  steaks  and  chops 

!   of  all  kinds. 


47S 
POTATOE  I^UDDING. 


'  Mash  the  potatoes  very  fine^  and  put 
oC  butter^  and  a  little  salt  in  them ;  butter  a.  hnin, 
flour  it;  then  put  in  the  potatoes ;.  press  them  domr^  Umv 
turn  the  basin  upside  down^  and  the  potatoes  will  come 
out  (it  should  not  be  turned  out  on  the  dish  it  is  to  go  to 
table  on) ;  beat  upan  e^,  and  put  it  over  it  with  a  paste 
brush ;  then  flow  it  with  the  dnidging^^boK ;  and^  eithor 
put  it  in  the  oven  to  bcown^  or  before  the  fire. 

N.  B.  Small.onesy  turned  out  of  a  tea-cup^  look  verf 
well^  hy  way  of  a  change. 

A  VEGETABLE  PUDDING. 

Boil  a  savoy  cabbage^  and  squeeze  it  as  dry  as  possible 
in  a  clean  rubber ;  then  chop  it  very  fine^  and  put  it  into 
a  stew^pan^  and  about  an  ounce  of  butter^  and  a  little 
pepper  and  salt ;  set  it  over  the  fire;  keep  stirring  it  untS 
quite  hot ;  then  put  it  on  a  plate  to  cool : — boil  two  car* 
rots^  bat  do  not  scrape  them ;  when  boiled^  cut  them  in 
^piarters^  and  shape  them  round  with  a  knife : — mash  some 
potatoes  very  fine^  make  them  very  good^  and  put  them  to 
cool : — boil  some  spinach^  and  squeeze  it  very  dry  ;  chop  it 
very  fine;  put  it  into  a  stew-pan,  about  an  ounce  of 
butter^  a  Utde  cream^  pepper  and  salt ;  stir  it  about  until 
quite  hot^  and  dry ;  then,  put  it  oa  a  plats;  to  cool :— -then 
mash  some  turnips ;  the  turnips  should  be  squeezed  veiy 
dry ;  the  best  way  is  to  put  dieuL  in  a  clean  clothj  and 
squeeze  the  water  out;  thfen  put  them  into  a  sauce-pao^ 
with  about  two  ounces  of  butter^  a  little  white  pepper, 
and  salt ;  put  thein  over  a  slow  fire ;  keep  stirring  them 
while  on  the  fire ;  then  put  them  to  cool : — boil  four  heads 
of  nice  greens;  then  squeeze  the  water  well  from  them, 
and.  leave  them  their  full  length : — butter  an  oval>  or  round 
mould  (called  a  crocant  mould) ;  at  each  end  put  carrots, 
then  potatoes,  next  greens,  then  turnips,  next  carrots,  then 
oabbagej  tfien  spinach,  and  then  potatoes  ;  they  should  all 


479 

l>e  laid  longways  down  the  mould ;  make  a  star  lA  the 
bottom  of  the  mold^  with  carrots^  cut  in  the  shape  of 
leaves  ;  fill  the  middle  up  with  mashed  potatoes  ;  put  it 
in  the  oven  (or  a  stew-pan^  with  water  to'come  up  about 
three  parts  of  the  mould)  about  half  an  hour  before  it  is 
i^anted  i  (the  oven  is  best^  as  the  vegetables  bind  together 
better)  be  very  particular  about  buttering  the  mould  $ 
make  as  much  butter  stick  to  it  as  you  can.  To  make  it 
easier  understood^  I  have  given  the  following  plan  of  the 
siethod  of  putthig  the  vegetables  into  the  mould. 

]^f  •  B.  The  vegetables  should  be  rolled  in  the  shape  of 
a  sausage^  put  quite  close  to  each  other ;  when  done,  turn 
it  out ;  it  is  a  handsome  dish  for  the  middle^  or  two  of 
them  for  flanks. 


:^ 

1 

'  ** 

""""^ 

a* 

O 

« 

H 

2" 

0) 

g 

3 

^ 

p 

•s 

• 
D 

cr 

A 

• 

« 

• 

< 

'• 

1 

? 


Carrots. 


Carrots. 


? 


•s 


\ 


BILLS  OF  FARE 

FOR  THE  WHOLE  YEAR, 
On  the  preceding  Principle. 


JANUARY. 

DINNER   FOR   TWELVE, 

In  One  Course ^  and  Removes* 


Soup, 

Kemoved  with 
A  Roasted  Turkey^ 


Spiaacb, 


Sauce-boat  with  Gravjr. 


Mashed  Potatoei. 


Saace-boat  with  Fifth  Saoce. 


Tongue  and  Greens. 


Dressed  Sallad, 


Two  boiled  Fowls, 
and  Celerjr  Saoce. 


Saoceoboat  with  melted  Butter. 


Whole  Potatoes. 


Saoce-boat  with  Celery  Sance. 


Brocoli. 


Fishy 

Removed  with 

Roast  Beef. 


B«moTe  the  TURKEY  with 

Two  Wild  Ducks. 

Remove  the  BOATS  with 

Mince  Pies — Apple  Pie — Jelly — and  Blanc  Mange* 

Remove  the  BEEF  with 

A  Hare. 


4S1< 


JANUARY. 

0INNER    FOR    SIXTEEN^ 

In  One  Course^  and  Removes. 


Fishy 
A  Homy  and  Greens. 


i 


Oj«t*r  Patties. 


i  I  ii 


Vegetables. 


^  Breast  of  Veal 

steveed,  and 

White  Sauce. 


Vegetablrs. 


Search  Collops. 


Boat. 


Boat. 


Muck  Turtle  Soup, 
,  removed  with 
Marrow  Bones. 


Boat. 


i^tWK^ 


Boat. 


'*•^^• 


Harricot  of  Mutton. 


Vegetables. 


Boiled  Turkej, 

aud 
Ouster  Sauce. 


Vegetables. 


Small 
Beef  Steak  Pie. 


Fishy 

Removed  with      ' 

A  Saddle  of  Mutton. 


Remove   the  HAM  with 

Three  Partridges. 

Remove  the  four  BOATS  with 

,  Mince  Pies — a  Marrow  Pudding-^  small  Moulds  of 
Orange  Jellif-^and  Custards^  in  Cups. 

Remove  the  MOCK  TURTLE  with 

A  Charlotte. 
Remove  th«  SADDLE  of  MUTTON  with 

rVild  Ducks. 


j 


>> 


482 
FEBRtJARY. 


BINHER   FOR   TWENTY 

• 

Soup^ 
Removed  with  a  Loin  of  FeaL 

Stewed  Eels. 

Sauce-bcat. 

Con^  of  Rabbit. 

Tongae  and  Greens. 

-      Fish. 

Shoulder  of  Lamb 
larded,  &  Sorrel  Saoce 

Vegetable*. 

Saace«boat 

Vegetables. 

Neck  of  Mutton 
boiled,  and  Caper 
Sauce  over  it. 

A  raised  Pie, 

with 

Pigeons. 

Three 

boiled  Chickens, 

and  White  Sauce. 

Vegetables. 

Sauce-boat.-. 

Vegetables. 

Frieandeau  andl^vei 

Fish. 

Stewsd  Beef  &  Root» 

Pork  Chops  and 
mashed  Potatoes. 

Sauce-boat. 

Veal  Patties. 

Soup^ 
Removed  with  a  Haunch  of.  Mutton, 

SECOND  COURSE. 

two  mid  Ducks. 

Tartlets. 

Costards,  ia  Cups. 

Mince  Pies* 

Escaloped  Ousters. 

Fried  Potatoes. 

Damson  Pie. 

Brocoli. 

Stetred  Mushrooms.  1 

Two  Rabbits 
roasted. 

Jellj  and  Cream  in 
Glasses,  on  a  Stand. 

Woodcocks. 

1          Maccaroni. 

Apple  Pie. 

Spinach. 

.  An  Omelet. 

Lobster  an  Gratin. 

Custards,  in  Cups. 

Ml  !ce  Pies. 

- • 

Tartlets. 

ji  Hare, 


■»■>>■ 


mmmmmr^'^mm^ 


.••- 


i 


FEBRUARY.— j)tKNER  foe  forty. 

In  One  Course^  and  Removes. 


Fishy  removed  with  a  Ham, 
Removed  with  Two  Wild  Ducks. 


Chicken  Patties. 


Jelly. 


Vegctftbles. 


Comp6te  of  Pigeons. 


Damson  Pie. 


Scorch  Collops. 


Vegetables. 


Fish, 

removed  with  a 

Bacon  Chine»  &c. 


Vegetabltt. 


Harricot  of  Matton. 


Two  Sweetbreads 
larded,  and 
Sorrel  Sauce. 


Apple  Pie. 


Vegetables. 


Bianc  Mange. 


Oyster  Patties. 


Two  Sauce-boats. 


Fillet  of  Veal. 


Soup, 
removed  with  a  Hare. 


Two  boiled  Fowls, 
and  Oyster  Saoce. 


Two  3auce-boats. 


A  Leg  of  Lamb 
roasted. 


Soap, 

removed  with 

Kibs  of  Lamb. 


A  Round  of 
Beef,  &c. 


Soupl 
removed  with 
Two  Rabbits. 


A  Turkey  roasted. 


Two  Sauce-boats. 


Two  boiled  Fowls, 
and  Celery  Sauce. 


Soup, 
removed  with  a  Hare. 


Leg  of  Purk  roasted. 


Two  Sauce-boats. 


Patties  of  Oysters. 


Blanc  Mange. 


Vegetables. 


8  Sweetbreads  lairded, 
and  Sorrel  Sauce* 


Apple  Pie. 


Harricot  of  Mutton. 


Vegetables. 


Fish, 

removed  with  a 

Tongue  and  Greens. 


Vegetables. 


Scorch  Collops. 


Cempdte  of  Pigeons. 


Gooseberry  Pie. 


Vegetables. 


Jelly. 


Chicken  Patties. 


Fish,  removed  with  a  Chine  of  Mutton, 
Removed  with  Two  Wild  Ducks. 

Y  2 


1 

[ 


484 
MARCH. 

DINNER    FOB   TEN. 


FIRST  COURSE. 

- 

Soupy 

Removed  with 

Steued  Brisket  of  Beefj  and  Roots. 

Veal  Cutlets. 

Boats. 

\ 

Vegetables. " 

. 

Tongue 
and  Greens. 

Marrow  Bones. 

1 
Two  boiled  Fowls, 
aad  Celerj  Sauce. 

• 

Laver. 

Boats. 

Stewed  Beef  Steaks. 

Fishy 

KemoTed  with 

A  Leg'  of  Mutton. 

SECOND  COORSE. 

Tuo  Wild  Ducks. 

Maccaroni. 

Spinach. 

Muffin  Pudding. 

« 

• 

Brocoli. 

Escaloped  Oysters. 



T 

WO  Ral 

fbits, 

i 

^  roasU 

!d. 

485 

MARCH. 

DINNER   FOR    EiaHT. 


r 


FIRST  COURSE. 


A  Leg  of  Lamb  boiled^ 
Loin  friedj  and  Spinach. 


Sauce*  boat. 


Vegetables. 


White  Collops. 


Fish. 


Fricassee  of  Chicken. 


Vegetables. 


S&uce-boiit. 


Soupy 

Kemoved  with 

Roast  Beef, 


SECOND  COURSE- 


A  Roast  Fowl, 


Brocoli. 


Faneakes. 


Omelet. 


^■ip 


Three  Pigeons, 


Y  $ 


480 

APRIL. 

BINNER   FOR   FOURTEEN', 


1 

■ 

1 

FIRST  COURSE. 

1 

Fish, 

Kemovcd  with 

A  Fillet  of  Veal. 

Ox  Rumps  and 
Cabbage. 

1 

• 

i 

Breast  of  Lamb  grilled 
and  Sharp  Sauce. 

Sance-boats. 

S 

Vegetables. 

« 

Vegetables. 

■ 

^  Neck  of  Pork 
roasted. 

Ham 
and  Greens. 

Hashed 
CalPs  Head. 

, 

^^— , 

„ —  Vcgelahles. 

Vegetables. 

Sauce-boats.  ' 

Corrie  of  Rabbit. 

Tripe, 
fried  in  Batter. 

A  Saddle  of  Mutton. 

s: 

ECOND  C0UR5 

E. 

Two  Ducklings. 

• 

Laver. 

Lobster. 

Asparagus. 

\ 

Pastry. 

Trifle, 

Pastrj. 

t 

New  Potatoes. 

Prawns. 

Stewed  Ojstera. 

Pigeons, 

487 
APRIL. 


DINNBB    FOR   TEN. 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Stewed  Tench* 


Harrieot  of 

MllttOD. 


Vegetables. 


Two  Chickens, 
Partlej^  and  Butter. 


Sauce-boat. 


Pidgeon  Pie. 


Saoce-boat. 


Pig'tf  Face  and 
Greens, 


Vegetables. 


Scorch  Collops. 


Roast  Beef, 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Sweetbreadi  roasted. 


Omelet. 


Asparagus. 


Cauliflower. 


■«  ■■  <mm 


Maccaroni. 


Two  Rabbits* 


488 
MAY. 


:»INNBa   FOR  TEN. 


• 

■ 

F 

A. 

lioin 

IRST  COURSE. 

Hemoved  with                                                    I 

Leg  of  Lamb  boiled^ 
;  Fried^  and  Spinach. 

Vegetables. 

Sauce-boat. 

Vegetables. 

\ 

.      Sallad. 

Pig*s  Chopper, 
and  Greens. 

Mock  Turtle. 

Two  Chickens  boii«d, 
and  White  Sauce. 

Sailad. 

Vegetables. 

Sauce-boat. 

Vegetables. 

Roast  Beef. 

• 

SECONE 
A  Gn 

)  COURS 

R 

*,en  Goose* 

< 

^          Maccaroni. 

New  Potatoes. 

Marrow  Padding. 

« 

Asparagus. 

• 

Omelet.                  v 

i 

« 

I 

W  Rdi 

bbits 

roast 

ed. 

MAY.— DINNER   FOB   EIGHT. 


FIRST  COUHSE. 

Stewed  Beef  and  Roots. 

_  _  * 

Sauce-boat.  | 


New  Potatoes. 


Tongii€ 

i  and  Greens. 

Fi«h.                1 

Pigeon  Pie. 

Brocoli. 

1    1 

Sauce-boat. 

A  Filiet  of  Veal. 

f 

SECOND  COURSE. 

1 

Two  Ducklings, 

Saoce-boat. 

» 

Aspftragus. 

■         •                            .    » 

I       Gooseberry  Tart,     1 

Spinach. 

1    i 

Sauce-boat. 

Two  Chickens* 

MAY.— DINNER    FOR    SIX, 


FIRST  COURSE. 

Soup. 


Sauce. 


Potatoes.  I  Sauce. 


Fish. 


SECOND  COURSE. 
Two  Fowls  boiledy  and  Celery  Sauce, 


Sauce-b^)at,  I         i 


New  Potatoes. 


Gooseberry  Tart.       I      Bacon  aod  Greens.  Custards,  in  Cups. 


Spinach.  I  Sauce-boat. 


A  small  Leg  of  Mutton. 
y4 


490 
JUNE. 


DINNER  TOR    TWELVR, 


FIRST  COURSE. 

- 

Soupf 

Removed  with 

^  A  Breast  of  Feal^  ragoued» 

Fricance  of  Chicken. 

Patties. 

Vegetables. 

Beef  Steak  Pie. 

Yegetableti 

- 

Tripe,  fried  in  Batter. 

€nrrie  of  Rabbit. 

* 

Fish^ 

Removed  wrth 

A  Saddle  of  Mutton. 

SECOND  C 

OURSE. 

A  Green 

Goote. 

Maccaroni. 

Peas. 

Jelljr. 

Carrant  Fie^ 

Blanc  Maoge. 

• 

« 

Spinach. 

Omelet. 

J  Shoulder  of  Lamb. 

491 
JUNE. 


DINNER   FOB    EIGHTEEN, 

In  One  Course,    and  Removes. 


Ham  and  Beansm 


. 

■ 

9 

Patties. 

Ox  Romps  end 
Cabbage. 

Vegetables. 

G€K>osebcrrj  Tart. 

Vegetables. 

Veal  Cutlets  with 
Bread  Crumbs. 

- 

Soup. 

Two  boiled  Chickens 
&  Parsley  &  Batter. 

Sauce-boat.. 

•    Jtll^. 

Sauce-boat. 

Fish. 

Fillet  of  Veal. 

Fish. 

Sauce-boat. 

Jellj. 

Sauce-boat. 

Two  boiled  Chickens 

and 

White  Sauce. 

Soup. 

Harricot 

of 
Mutton. 

VegeUbles. 

Currant  Tart. 

Vegetables. 

Veal  Olives. 

- 

Patties. 

A  Sirloin  of  Beef. 

- 

J. 

• 

il 

Rei 

WO 

ove  the  Two  FISHES 

^ore^quarter  of  Lc 

DOve  the  Two  SOUPS 

A  Ghreen  Goose. 

Removed  with 

Dishes  of  Green 

wit 

iml 

wit] 

Pe 

h 

h 

* 
as. 

tmt> 


49% 


JUNE- 


DIKNER   FQR    EIGHT. 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Fishy 

^  Removed  with 

A  Breast  of  Veal  stewed^  and  Peas. 


Sauce-boat. 


Pig's  Chopper. 


Vegetables. 


Sal  lad. 


Vegetables. 


Two  bciledChickemi 

and  I 

Parslc  and  Bto*tcr. 


Sauce-  bo:it. 


Soup^ 
Kemoved  with 

A  Leg  of  Lamb  roahted,  ♦ 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Two  Dacldings* 


Cauliflower. 


Gooseberrj  Tart 


Pea». 


Roast  Pigeons, 


4d3 


JULY. 


■^ 


mN^ER    FOR   TWELVE, 

In  One  Course^  and  Removes* 


Fish, 

Removed  with 

A  Haunch  of  Venison, 

,    Stewed  Cow-heel. 

• 

Mutton  Cutlets 
&  Cucumber  Sauce. 

Vegetables. 

- 

Sauce-boat. 

^ 

Vegetables. 

Boiled  Chickens. 

Sallftd. 

Bacon  aad  Beans. 

^      Custards. 

Sauce-boat. 

Currant  Tart. 

Soup, 

Leg  of  Muttou 

boilecK 

end  Turnips. 

Soup. 

€h>o»ebeTry  Tart. 

Sauce-boat. 

Custard*. 

Tongue  and  Greeni. 

Saliud. 

Boiled  Chickens. 

Veg<^tables. 

Sauce-  boat. 

* 

Vegetables. 

Breast  of  Lamb 
grille  dy  Mid  5>piBacb.. 

Scorch  Collops. 

Fish, 
Removed  with 
[                                 Ribs  of  Beef^  rolled. 

A  Gre 

The  ] 

Tm 

)€n 
'A 

ro.SOUPS  removed  w 

Goose  and  Five 
7  of  MUTTON  remoi 

f  Marrow  Pudding 

ith 
Pi 

red 

geone^ 

with                   ' 

494 


JULY. 


DINNER   FOB    EIOHT> 

In  One  Course,  and  Removes. 


1 

Soupj 

Removed  with 

A  Leg  of  Lamb  boiled. 
Loin  fried,   and  Spinach* 

Vegetables. 

Vegetables. 

« 

• 

Sael  Pudding. 

Codling  Tart. 

Fish,  removed  with 

Etch-bone  of  Beef 

boiled,  and  Cabbage. 

Currant 

and 

Raspberry  Tait. 

. 

?      Suet  Pudding. 

• 

Vegetables. 

Veceiables. 

A  Loin  of  VeaL 

'RemoT^.the  Top,  Bottom,  and  Middle,  with 

Tzioo  Ducklings,  Jelly,  and  Two  Rabbits  rooited. 

,-c.    .».-  ■> 


495 


JULY. 


•X 


A. PLAIN    DINNER   FOE   SIXTEEN^ 

In  One  Course, 


A  Sucking  Pig* 

1 

Sauce-boat. 

Saace-boat. 

Breast  of  Matton 
rolled  and  roasted. 

N 

Currant  Tarti 

- 

• 
Stewed  Eels. 

V 

Vegetables. 

Raspberry  Cream 
in  Cups. 

Vegetables. 

A  Tongue  and 

mashed  Turnips, 

garnUhed  with  Carrat. 

A  Pigeon  Pie. 

Two  boiled  CJiicken* 
with  White  Sauce,  gar- 
nishedwitbCauliflower 

V 

Vegetables. 

Gooseberry  Cream 
in  Cups. 

Tegetables. 

*m 

•^ 

Fried  Rabbit  and 
Brown  Sauce. 

Apple  Tart. 

Two  Sweetbreads 
roasted. 

1 

Sauce-boat. 

- 

Sauce-boat 

Leg  of  Mutton  roasted. 

AUGUST.— DINNEB   FOR   TIN. 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Rsmttved  with 

A  Calf^s  Headj  hashed  and 
grilled. 


Venison 
Fry. 


Vegetable 
Pudding. 


Lansb 

Cotlelsand 

Cucumbtr 

Sauce. 


Sance- 
boat. 


Currie  of 
Rabbit. 


Removed  with 
Ilibt  of  Beef  rolled. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Ttqo  Turkey  Poults. 


Maccarooi. 


Peas. 


■ 


Pastry. 


Pastry. 


Two  Ducklings. 


AUGUST. — A  PLAIN  DINNER  FOR  TWELVE, 

In  One 'Course. 


Fish^ 

Removed  with 

A  Haunch  of  Venison. 

Almond  Cream. 

1 

Currant  and 
Raspberry  T«rt. 

. 

Sauce-boat. 

Vegetables. 

Vegetablei. 

' 

A  boiled  Neck  of 
Mutton  and  Capers. 

Ham  and  Beans, 

Two  boiled  Fowls 
and  Celery  Saoce. 

/ 

Vegetables. 

Vegetables. 

Sauce-boat. 

Apple  Tart. 

Jelly. 

• 

A  Fillet  of  Veal' 

AUGUST. 

DINNER  FOR  EIGHT* 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Soup* 

Kemcved  with 

A  Breast  of  Veal  Ragoited. 


Vegctablca, 


Sauce-boat 


Mtw 


SaQce«boat. 


Vegetables. 


Fishy 

Removed  with 

A  Leg  of  Lamb  rdasied. 


.  S^ECOND  COURSE. 


Four  Pigeons, 


.^-M. 


Picked  Crab. 


.MnBMMMrti 


■w  «%-— 


■^^p^ 


Peas. 


Ripe  Apricot  Tart. 


French  Bieans. 


Prawns. 


Shoulder  of  House  Lamb. 


498 
SEPTEMBER. 

s 

DINNSR   FOR   TWENTY, 

In  One  Course,  and  Removes^ 


( 


Mock  Turtle^ 

Removed  with 

A  Haunch  of  Feniion* 

Wh«le  Potatoes. 

' 

Plumb  Tart. 

French  Beans* 

Tongae  and  Greens. 

Trifle. 

* 

Two  Chickens  boiled, 
and  White  Saaceu 

A  Turkey  roasted. 

Apple  Tart 
with  Custard. 

Two  Breasts  of  Lamb 
grilled^  and  Spinach, 

Fish,  removed  with 

a  Brisket  of  Beef 

stewed,  and  Roots. 

A  Raised  Pie. 

• 

Fish,  removed  with 
a  Fillet  of  VeaL 

Fork  Chops  and 
mashed  Potatoes. 

Currant  and 
Raspberry  Tart. 

ALeg  of  Lamb  roasted, 
&  Cucumber  Sauce. 

■ 

Two  Rabbits  boiled, 
and  Onion  Saace. 

Jcllj. 

Pig's  Chopper 
and  Beans. 

, 

Mashed  Turnips 

garnished  with 

Ciarrot. 

Plumb  Tart. 

Cattliflowar. 

Soupy 
Removed  with 

,      A  Sirloin  of  Beef. 

Remova  the  VENISON  with 

Partridges. 

Remove  the  BEEF  with 

A  Hare. 

Remove  the  STEWED  BEEF  with 

Green  Peas. 
Remove  the  FILLET  of  VEAL  with 
French  Beans. 

499 

SEPTEMBER. 

DINNEB   FOR  EIGHT. 


"tr 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Fiih. 


■  ■■Ill  nil      11         II 

Sauce-boat. 


Sauce-boat. 


Vegetables. 


Soup, 


SECOND  COURSE. 


A  Neck  of  Venison* 


Patties. 


Two  Chickens  boiled. 


Voge  tables. 


Small  Ham  and  Beans. 


Vegetables, 


Two  Sweetbreads  larded* 
and  Sorrel  Sauce. 


Lamb  Cutlets 
and  Cucumber  Sauce. 


Ro<i8t  Beef. 


THIRD  COURSE. 


Partridges. 


Cauliflower. 


Ratifle  Pudding. 


French  Beans. 


I 


A  Hare. 


Peas. 


Omelet. 


MaMPiaa^a^ 


506 


SEPTEMBER. 

BINKBR   rOB  SIGHT. 


FIRST  COURSE. 


A  Goose* 


Scorcli  CoHops. 


Vegetabie'B. 


Soup. 


Vegetables. 


Beef  Olives. 


A  Chine  of  Mutton. 


SECOxVD  COURSE. 


Partridges^ 


French  Beans. 


Escaloped 
Oysters 


Pastry.  1 


Maccaroni; 


Pigeons, 


OCTOBER, 

DINNElt   FOR    SIX, 


» 

In  One  Course. 

A  Turkey  boiled^ 
and  Oyster  and  Cekry  Sauce* 

Vegetables. 

Cheesecakes. 

1 

Vegetables. 

^ 



Sauce. 

Tongue  and  Greens. 

Sauce. 

Vegetables. 

Tartlets* 

Vegetables. 

Neck  of  Venison, 

OCTOBER. 


DINNER  FOK  FOUR. 


FIRST  COURSE. 


Fish* 


Sauce-boat* 


Patties. 
■  \ 


Fetataes. 


Small  Leg  of  Mutton. 


Caaliflower, 


SECOND  COURSE. 


'Partridges, 


Castard  Pudding. 


Saace>boat. 


Escaloped  Ousters. 


OCTOBER. 

DINNER   FOR   EIGHT^ 

In  One  Course* 


Goose. 

Harricot 

of 
Mutton. 

' 

Apple  5»e. 

Two  Rkbbits  boifed, 

'  and 

Onion  Saace.^ 

Vcgetableg. 

Tongue  and  Greens. 

Vegetables. 

- 

Two  chickeiw  boiled. 

Castard  in  Caps. 

• 

Pork  Chiips 

and 

maihed  Potatoes. 

j  .                                    Loin  of  VeaL 

503 
NOVEMBER. 


lilNNER  FOR  TEN. 


FjRST  COURSE. 
Soup^ 

Unmoved  with 

A  Ham  and  Greens, 


P.etit  pates. 


Turkey  roasted,  and 
Sausages. 


Two  Sweetbreads 
larded. 


VegetablM. 


I 


Raised  Pie  filled 
with  Pigeons. 


Carrie  of  Sabbit. 


Boiled-Chickens. 


Vegetables. 


Lamb  Cutlets  and 
Cacamber  Sauce. 


^  Fish^ 

Removed  with 

A  Saddle  of  Mutton. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


Partridges. 


Spinach. 


£scaloped  Ojatera. 


Tartlets. 


Trifle. 


Cbeesecakea. 


Omelet. 


Stewed  Mushrooms* 


Two  Wild  Ducks. 


509 


NOVEMBER. 

DIHNSS   FOB  FOUBVSBK, 

In  One  Course^  and  Removes. 


A  Turkey  boiledy  and 
Oyster  Sauce. 

Stewed  Pigeons, 

Uarricot'of 
Mutton. 

Sauce-boat. 

¥-^ 

Gooseberry  Pie, 

» 

Vegetables. 

A  Leg  of  Lamby 
roasted. 

A  Tongue, 
and  Greens. 

A  Spare  Bib  of 
Pork. 

1 

.     Vegetables. 

Apple  Pie. 

- 

Sauce-boat. 

• 

Veal  Olires. 

Ox  Rumps 
and  Cabbages. 

Roast  Beef. 


Remore  the  Top  with 

Partridges* 

Remore  the  Bottom  with 

ji  Hare^ 


^04 

NOVEMBER, 

OINNEB   FOB  TEK, 

In  One  Course. 


A  Leg  of  Pork  boiled^ 
and  Greens. 

Vegetsbles. 

Blanc  Mange. 

Beef  Steak 
Pudding. 

• 

/ 

• 
CalPs  Head 

hashed, 
and  broiled. 

A  Ooose. 

Two  broiled  Fowls, 
and 
Mosh  rooms. 

« 

Peas  Padding. 

Apple  Pie. 

a 

VegeUbleo.        , 

A  Chine  of  Mutton* 

DECEMBER. 

DINNER   FOR   £I6HT> 

In  One  Course. 


Leg  of  Lamb  boiled^          y 
Loin  fried^  and  Spinach. 

Vegetables. 

Mince  Pies. 

Vegetables. 

•  Pork  Chops  and 
raashed  Potatoes. 

Mock  Turtle. 

Harricol  of 
Motton. 

% 

Laver.            , 

Apple  Pic. 

Vegetables. 

Ribs  of  Beef^  rolled.    ^ 

I 

J 


Vegetables. 


Neck  •( 
Venison. 


Vegetable*. 


■ 

DECEMBER. 

DINNEE   FOB  TEN, 

In  One  Course, 


A  Turketfy  roasted. 


Mince  Piet. 


Plumb 
Puddiog. 


Mince  Pies. 


Vegetables. 


Salt  Bacon  Cbhie, 
aod  Greens.  , 


Vegaiables. 


A  Sirloin  of  Beef. 


'.*■  •» 


DECEMBER. 

DINNfiH    FOR  TWELVE, 

In  One  Course, 


t  nim  i» 


Fishj 
Kerooved  with 

A  Haunch  of  Fenison. 


^ 


ttw^^'*— 


Apple  Pie. 


Two  boiled  Fowls, 
Mid  Celery  Sauce. 


Raspberrj  Cream. 


Sauce-boat. 


Vegetable 
Pudding. 


Sauce-boat. 


Jellj. 


Salt  Bacon  Chine, 
Bwd-  Of  eras* 


Cheese  Cakes. 


Soup^ 
Bemoved  with 

A  Fillet  of  Veal. 


■at-**^  ■   '^■px 


506 


DECEMBER. 

DINNER   FOR   TWENTY, 

In  One  Course* 


Fish, 

Removed  with 

jt  HauneKof  Venison, 


CustardA, 
in  C«ps. 


" 


Two  boiled  Rabbits, 
and  Odioii  Sauce. 


Plumb  Pudding. 


A  Bacon 

Spare  Rib. 


Mince  Pies. 


: 


A  Tongue, 
and  Greens. 


Small  Moulds  of 
Jelly. 


Vegetables. 


Saace-boat. 


Ham 
and  Greens. 


Sauce-boat. 


Vegetables. 


Fishy  • 

Removed  with 

Roast  Beef. 


Small  Moulds  of 
Jelly. 


Neck  of  MuttoDy 
and  Capers. 


Mince  Pies. 


A  Turkey, 
roasted. 


Plamb  Pudding. 


Two  boiled 
Chickens. 


Custards, 
in  Cups* 


Bieraove  the  Top,  Botton,  and  Flanks,  with 

Four  Partridges — 7\eo  Pheasants — One  Hare — and 

Two  Wild  Ducks. 


PASTRY,  CONFECTIONARY, 


<r^#^#4^#sr^^'#Nr^<^#'4r 


DIRECTIONS  TO  MAKE  ALL  KINPS  OF 

PASTRY. 


PUFF  PASTE 

XS   made  as  follows: — Put  three-quarters  of  a  pound 
of  flour  on  the  paste-board ;  make  a  hole  in  the  middle^ 
and  break   an   egg   in;  put  a   little   water;    be    careful 
not  to  put  too  much  at  first;  mix  it  up  rat&er  stifl";  then 
work  it  up  well  with  the  heel  of  your  hand,  until  it  be- 
comes quite  pliable^  so  that  it  will  draw  in  strings ;  then 
take  a  pound  of  butter^  and   work  with  your  hand   (in 
winter^  but  in  summer  you  should  not  touch  it  with  your 
hand)^  until  it  becomes  quite  tough ;  roll  out  the  paste 
rather  thick^  and  put  all  the  butter  in  at  once,  and  fold  it 
up  quite  even ;  then  roll  it  out  again,  and  fold  it  up  in 
regular  folds ;  repeat   this  once   more ;  then  fold  it  up 
again,  and  roll  it  out  for  use ;  be  careful  to  let  it  be  all  of 
a  thickness,  otherwise  it  will  not  bake  upright,  but  fall  on 
one  side  in  the  oven  :  if  for  patties^  it  should  be  about  a 
quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  cut  out  with  cutters,  according 
to  your  own  fancy  ;  put  them  on  a  baking  sheet ;  brush 
them  over  with  an  egg,  beat  up ;  be  careful  not  to  let  the 
egg  touch  the  sides ;  then  take  a  paste-CMtter^  about  three 
sizes  smaller  than  what  you  cut  the  pattiea  out  with,  and 
cut  them  in  the  middle,  about  half  way  through ;  put 
them  immediately  in  a  quick  oven  ;  be  particularly  atten- 
tive to  the  oven,  as  they  will  not  take  many  minutes  in 

z  2 


SOS 

baking;  if  the  oven  is  too  hot^  put  ps^er  over-tkeni 
to  keep  them  from  being  too  high*  coloured ;  when  done, 
take  off  the  tops^  scoop  out  the  soft  paste  from  the  inside^ 
and  put  them  on  paper^  to  soak  the  butter  from  them ; 
they  should  not  be  filled  many  minutes  before  the  dinner 
leaves  the  kitchen. 

N.  B.  This  sort  of  paste  is  used  for  all  kinds  of  tart- 
lets^ and  what  is  called  small  pastry.  Meat  pies,  made  in 
dishes,  volevents,  patties,  goodeveausy  and  paste  for  garnish- 
ing :  the  trimmings  will  answer  for  garnishing.  All  meat 
pies  should  be  egged  over. 

ANOTHER  WAY  TO  MAKE  PUFF  PASTE, 

Particularly  in  hoHVeather. 

Cut  the  butter  in  three  equal  parts ;  have  flour  of  sin 
equal  weight ;  roll  the  butter  in  the  flour^  by  way  of  drying 
up  any  moisture  that  may  be  in  the  butter ;  then  make  a 
hole  in  the  nrddle  of  tt>e  flour,  break  an  egg  in,  aud  put 
as  much  water  as  will  barely  wet  it ;  work  the  paste  well, 
until  it  is  quite  toughs  then  roll  it  out,  and  put  in  one 
third  of  the  butter ;  then  fold  it  up^  roll  it  out  again,  and 
put  in  another  part  of  die  butter ;  roll  it  out,  and  fold  it 
up ;  then  roll  it  out  again,  and  put  in  the  remainder  of  the 
butter ;  then  roll  it  out,  fold  it  up,  aud  it  is  readj  for  use* 

TART  PASTE, 
Commonly  called  S/.ort  Paste. 

To  one  pound  of  flour,  rub  in  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
buttery  make  a  hole  in  the  middle ;  put  in  a  little  water,  and 
two  yolks  and  one  white  of  an  egg  ;  put  the  other  white 
on  a  plate,  to  beat  up^  and  put  over  the  tart,  when  finished ; 
work  it  up  to  a  proper  stiffness,  and  roll  it  out  for  use. 

N .  13.  There  should  be  about  two  table  spoonsful  of 
sugar  in  the  paste,  when  for  tarts,  or  any  thing  sweet. 
This  i»  the  proper  kind  of  paste  for  meat  puddin;;s,  only 
Jeave  out  the  sugar. 


509 
COMMON  PASTE,  FOR  FAMILY  MES,  &c. 

To  one  pound  and  a  half  of  flour^  break  in  half  a  pound 
of  butter ;  wet  it  with  water,  work  it  up,  and  then  roll  it 
out  twice  ;  the  second  time  for  use.  There  is  no  occasion 
for  weighing  the  flour  for  this  use,  as  it  is  of  no  conse- 
quence \vhelher  there  is  an  ounce  under  or  over.  Young 
beginners  had  better  weigh  the  flour  and  butter  for  this, 
puff  pastej  and  tart  paste,  until  thej  get  used  to  their 
business. 

HOT  PASTE,  FOR  RAISED  PIES,  &c. 

To  one  pint  of  water,  put  two  ounces  of  butter  ;  set  it 

on  the  fire  to  boil ;  take  what  flour  you  think  is  requisite  ; 

break  two  eggs  into  it,  and  when  the  butter  and  water 

boils,  stir  in  the  flour,  with  a  spoon,  so  as  to  mix  the 

egg  with  the  liquid ;  then  work  it  up  well ;  it  should  be  , 

worked  until  quite  smooth  and  stifl* ;  then  put  it  into  a 

stew-pan,  before  the  fire,  to  sweat  for  about  ten  minutes ; 

when  it  has  got  soft,  work  more  flour  in  it ;  then  raise 

your  pie  to  any  shape  you  please ;  it  is  (he  better  way  to 

raise  your  pie  and  finish  it  for  baking  the  day  before  it 

is  wanted,  as  it  will  stand  the  oven  better,  particularly  if 

it  is  a  large  one ;  but,  as  for  small  ones,  or  cases,  they 

may  be  made,  and  baked  directly.   As  for  garnishing,  your 

fancy  must  direct  you. 

BEST  SORT  OF  PLUMB  PUDDING. 

One  pound  of  raisins,  stoned ;  one  pound  of  currants, 
well  washed  and  picked ;  a  pound  of  suet,  chopped  very 
fine ;  about  a  pound  of  flour,  and  as  many  bread  crumbs  ^ 
a  little  fine  spice,  and  an  ounce  of  preserved  lemon-peel ; 
the  same  quantity  of  orange- peel  and  citron  ;  about  half  a 
nutmeg,  grated ;  and  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  moist  sugar ; 
mix  all  well  together;  then  break  in  seven  eggs,  stir  it 
well  up,  add  about  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  milk^  and  a  giU 

z  3 


510 

of  brandy ;  mix  all  well  together ;  if  it  should  want  a 
little  more  milk^  put  it  iii^  but  be  careful  that  you  do  not 
wet  it  much;  let  it  be  stiff  enough  for  the  spoon  to 
stand  upright^  otherwise  the  fruit  will  settle  at  the  bottom, 
which  will  spoil  the  look  of  it;  it  will  take  four  hours  to 
boil. 

A  FAMILY  PLUMB  PUDDING. 

It  is  made  the  same  way  as  the  best  sort>  but  not  so 
Tich,  the  lemon  and  orange  peel,  and  citron  left  out^  and 
use  all  flour  instead  of  bread  crumbs^  by  which  means  it 
will  take  an  hour  longer  boiling. 

A  MARiiOW  PUDDING. 

Boil  a  pint  of  milk  ;  put  a  little  cinnamon,  and  the  peel 
of  a  lemon  in  it ;  let  it  boil  for  about  ten  minutes,  to  get  out 
uU  the  flavour  of  the  cinnamon  and  lemon  peel;  strain  it 
into  a  basin,  and  put  it  to  cool ;  break  six  eggs  into  a 
basin  (leave  out  two  whitea) ;  beat  them  up  ;  then  add 
the  mijk,  and  a  little  brandy  and  nutmeg ;  put  puff  paste 
round  the  rim  of  the  dish  thati^ou  intend  to  bake  the 
pudding  in ;  butter  the  bottom  ;  theu  cut  the  crust  off 
tiiree  I^rench. rolls,  and  cut  the  crumb  in  slices  ;  put  a. few 
currants,"  and  a  piece  of  marrow ;  then  cover  that  with 
the  rolls ;  put  curran)^  and  marrow  cut  in  thin  slices 
over  the  slices  of  roll,  and  repeat  it,  until  the  dish  is  quite 
full ;  about  a  quarter  of  an  hour  before  you  put  it  in  the 
oven  pour  some  of  the  custard  over  it,  and  the  re- 
mainder just  before  jou  put  it  in  the  oven;  it  will  take 
about  half  an  hour  to  bake. 

N.  B.  Bread  and  butter  pudding  is  made  the  same  way, 
only  using  butter  instead  of  marrow.  Put  sugar  sufficient 
V>  sweeten  it. 

A  WHOLE  RICE  PUDDING, 

Either  baked  or  bailed. 

A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  rice  will  make  about  a  quart 
mt  puddiog ;  wash  the  rice  in  sevecal  waters ;  then  put  it 


511 

on  to  boil  in  a  quart  of  milk ;  put  a*  little  l^mon-peel^  and 
a  little  cinnamon ;  let^  it  boil^  until  nearly  all  the  milk  bas 
boiled  away,  or  soaked  into  the  rice;  then  tak^  it  from  the 
fire^  and  put  about  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter  ;  put 
it  into  a  basin^  and  break  in  six  eggs^  ^nd  mix  all  welV 
together ;  put  sugar  sufficient  to  sweeten  it^  and  a  little 
brandy  and  nutmeg;  put  puff  paste jroand, the  rim  of  the 

dish,  and  butter  the  bottom  ;  it  will  take  half  an  hour  to 

bake.     If  for  boiling,  butter  the  basin^  and  tie  a  cloth 

Qver  it. 

N.,B»  A  little  saffron,  boiled  in  the   rice,  gives  it  a 

pretty  colour.     The  saffron  should  be  tied  up  in  a  pie<j« 

of  muslin* 

A  GROUND  RICE  PUDDING, 

Either  baked  or  boiled. 

This  is  made  the  same  way  as  the  whole  rice,  except 
in  one  point ;  which  is — wbe^you  put  the  rice  and  the 
milk  on  the  fire,  it  must  be  stirred  all  the  time  it  is  on, 
to  keep  it  from  sticking  to  the  bottom  of  the  sauce-pan  f 
if  baked,  put  puff  paste  round  the  rim  of  the  dish,  and 
butter  the  bottom;  if  for  boiling,  butter  the  basin.  Wine 
i^auce  is  generally  sent  to  table  over  all  sweet  boiled 
puddings. 

VERMICELU  PUDDING, 

Either  baked  or  boiled. 

Boil  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  vermicelli  in  a  quart  of 
milk,  until  it  has  soaked  it  .all  up ;  then  put  it  into  d 
basin,  with  about  two  ounces  of  butter;  break  in  six 
eggs  (leaving  out  two  of  the  whites)  into  a  basin ;  add  a 
little  brandy  and  sugar  to  them ;  beat  them  up,  and  mix 
them  with  the  vermicelli :  it  may  be  either  baked  or 
boiled ;  if  baked,  put  puff  paste  round  the  dish.  , 

N*  B.  Boil  a  little  cinnamon,  lemon-peel,  and  grated 
nutmeg,  in  a  little  milk^  when  it  has  boiled  about  five 


5J2 

ininutes^  then  strain  it  throij^gh  a  tamxny-sieve  to  the  ver* 
micelli;  if  the  nutmeg  be  grated  in  the  puddiug^  it 
ipviily  when  boiled,  appear  like  dirt ;  by  boiling  it  io  the 
milky  and  straining  it^  it  gives  it  the  flavour^  which  is  all 
that  is  wanted. 

A  TAPIOCA  pudding; 

Either  baked  or  boiled. 

Put  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  tapioca  into  a  stew-pan  ; 
fill  it  up  with  cold  water,  and  set  it  on  a  stove^  to  boil  for 
a  few  minutes ;  then  stain  it  off^  return  it  into  the  stew* 
pan^  put  a  pint  of  new  milk  into  it,  and  set  on  the  fire, 
to  boil  very  slow^  until  the  tapioca  has  soaked  up  all  the 
milk ;  then  put  it  into  a  basin  to  cool,  with  two  ounces 
of  butter ;  break  six  eggs  into  a  basin^  leaving  out  two  of 
the  whites ;  beat  them  up ;  sweeten  it  with  moist  sug^r  ; 
add  a  glass  of  brandy^  and  j|ttte  a  little  nutmeg  in. 

A  BREAD  PUDDING, 

Either  baked  or  boiled. 

Boil  a  quart  of  milk  ;  put  in  the  peel  of  a  lemon,  and 
a  little  cinnamon ;  let  it  boil  about  five  minutes,  by  way 
of  giving  it  the  flavour  of  the  lemou  and  cinnamon  ;  put 
the  crumbs  of  four  French  rolls  into  a  basin,  and  pour  the 
boiling  milk  over  them ;  then  cover  the  basin  over  with 
a  plate ;  break  six  eggs  into  another  basin ;  beat  them  up, 
and  sweeten  them  with  moist  sugar ;  grate  a  little  nutnaeg 
in,  and  put  a  small  glass  of  brandy  in. 

A  SAGO  PUDDING, 

Either  baked  or  boiled. 

Boil  four  ounces  of  sago  in  water  a  few  minutes  ;  then 
strain  it  off,  put  it  into  a  quart  of  new  milk,  and  boil  it 


Qntil  teader;  boil  lemon-peel  and  cinnamon  in  a  little- 
milk  ;  \ihen  it  has  boiled  long  enough^  to  get  the  flavour 
out^  strain  it  to  the  sago,  and  put  the  sago  in  a  basin ; 
when  about  half  cold^  break  in  six  eggs>  and  beat  them. 
up  ;  sweeten  it  with  moist  sugar ;  add  a  little  brandy  at)4 
nutmeg. 

A  SAVOY  PUDDING, 

Either  baked  or  boiled. 

This  is  made  in  all  respects  as  a  bread  pudding  ;  only 
use  sponge  biscuits,  or  Savoy  cake,  instead  of  Frenck, 
rolls,  or  breads 

A  CUSTARD  PUDDING,, 

Either  baked  ar  boiled.. 

Put  a  quart  of  new  milk  into  a  stew-pan,  the  peel  of  a' 

femon^  a  little  cinnamon,  half  a  nutmeg  grated^  and  a  ft\r 

bitter  almonds ;  set  the  stew-pan  on.  the  fire ;  it  should 

boil,  at  least,  a  quarter  of  an  h^r  ;  then  strain  it  through 

a  tammy  sieve  into  a  basin,  and  put  it  to  get  cold ;  break 

eight  eggs  into  a  basin,,  leave  out  four  of  the  whites ;  put 

about  a  table  spoonful  of  flour  to  the  eggs^  beat  them  up, 

and  put  a  little  of  the  milk  to  them ;  sweeten  it  with  lump 

sugar,  and  put  a  ^lass  of  brandy  in  ;  then  strain  it  through 

a  hair  sieve,  to  the  remainder  of  the  milk  ;  if  to  be  baked, 

,  cover  the  inside  of  the  dish   with  thin  puff  paste  (first 

butter  the  dish)  ;  egg  round  the  rim  of  the  dish,  and  put 

puff  paste  round  the  rim  ;  then  put  in  the  custard ;  it  will 

take  about  twenty  minutes  to  bake.     If  for  boiling,  butter 

tlie  basin,  and  wet  the  cloth  you  tie  over  it,  and  flour  it 

well,  as  it  will  prevent  the  water  from  getting  into  the 

pudding,  and  the  custard  from  running  out,  when  first  put 

in  the  sauce-pan. 

N.B,  Garnish  with  red  currant  jelly;  first  pour  wine 
sauce  over  it  and  then  the  jelly  ;^— currant  jelly  made  just 
i^arni  and  poured^over  it  looks  very  well. 


su 

SMALL  CURD  PUDDINGS,  BAKED. 

Get  some  cheese  curd,  sind  put  it  on  a  sieve,  to  drain 
the  whey  from  it ;  put  a  plate  over  it^  aiid  a  weight  on  the 
plate ;  when  quite  dry,  rub  it  through  a  hair-sieve ;  put 
about  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter  to  about  oue  pound 
of  cheese  curd,  and  rub  it  through  tlie  sieve,  with  the 
curd;  piit  it  into  a  basin,  about  two  OGtnces  of  sweet 
almonds,  pounded  very  fine,  and  about  half  an  ounce  of 
bitter  almonds ;  put  sifted  lump  sugar  in  to  sweeten  it; 
grate  about  half  a  nutmeg  in;  then  break  in  ten  eggs, 
leaving  out  five  of  the  whites ;  beat  them  well  up  ;  tficn 
butter  the  mould  very  thick  ;  put  the  butter  on  with  a 
paste-brush ;  make  as  much  stick  to  them  as  you  can ; 
then  put  in  some  bread  crumbs,  and  make  as  many  stick 
to  the  moulds  as  you  can  ;  then  fill  the '  moulds,  and  put 
them  in  the  oven  to  bake ; .  when  done,  turn  them  out,  and 
pour  wine  sauce  over  them ;  the  same  preparation  will  do 
for  a  large  mould,  Jf  you  want  to  mak'e  a  similar  one.    . 

N*B.  Crumble  six  sponge  biscuits,  or  an  equal  quantity 
of  stale  Savoy  cake,  or  flFencb  roll,  if  the  latter  is  not. 
convenient. 

A  SUET  PUDDING, 

Either  baked  or  boiled » 

Chop  the  suet  very  fine ;  put  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
suet  to  about  one  pound  of  flour;  put  the  flour  and  suet 
into  a  basin,  about  a  tea  spoonful  of  salt,  and  a  little  ground 
ginger ;  mix  all  very  well  together ;  then  break  in  four 
eggs,  and  stir  them  up  with  the  flour,  &c. ;  then  put  as 
much  new  milk  as  will  bring  it  to  a  proper  thickness,  [t 
sliould  not  be  quite  so  thick  as  a  plumb  pudding. 

SUET  DUMPLINGS. 

Rub  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  fine  chopped  suet  in  one 
pound  of  flour;  make  a  hole  in  the  middle,  and  break  in 
one  egg  ;  put  as  much  milk  as  will  be  sufiicient  to  makt 


515 

it  into  a>  stiff  paste;  then  work  it  up^  and  make  the 
dumplings :  the  water  should  boil  before  the  dumplings 
are  put  in. 

APPLE  PUDDING. 

Make  short  paste^  and  roll  it  out^  about  twice  as  thick 
^s  for  tarts ;  wet  the  pudding  cloth,  and  put  the  cloth  in 
a  sieve,  about  t,he  same  size  as  the  pudding  is  to  be  ;  peel 
the  apples^  and  cut  them  in  quarters  ;  cut  out  the  cores ; 
then  roll  the  paste  as  round  as  you  can  ;  flour  the  cloth^ 
and  put  the  paste  in  the  cloth  that  is  in  the  sieve ;  then 
put  in  the  apples  ;  wet  the  inside  of  the  paste^  and  gather 
it  up^  30  as  to  make  it  stick  together ;  then  tie  the  cloth  up 
tight^  and  put  it  in  to  boil ;  keep  the  water  boiling  all  the 
while  it  is  on  the  fire ;  when  done^  take  it  up^  and  turn 
it  out  of  the  cloth ;  cut  a  round  piece  off  the  top ;  put 
about  two  ounces  of  butter^  and  a  sufficiency  of  moist 
augar  to  sweeten  it.^  grate  a  little  nutmeg  in. 

GOOSEBERRY  AND  GIJRRANT  PUDDINGS. 

They  are  made,  in  the  same  manner  as  thc^  appl& 
Bidding, 

A  YORKSHIRE  PUDDING. 

To  about  one  pound  of  flour^  break  in  four  eggs ;  beat* 
ftem  well  up,  and  add  one  pint  of  milk;  mix  all  well  up^ 
and  put  a  little  salt  in ;  butter  the  bottom  of  a  dish^  or  a 
tin  bottom  of  a  Dutch  oven  ;  put  the  batter  iu^  and  put 
it  under  the  meat;  when  brown  at  the  top^  turn  it: 
sprinkle  the  meat  with  salt^  which  will  help  to  season  th« 
pudding. 


SlfS 


J)mECTIONS  TO  MJKE  JLL  KINDS  OP 

CONFECTIONARY. 


SAVOY  CAKES. 

I 

To  one  pound  of  fine  sifted  sogar^  put  the  yolks  of  tea 
eggs  (put  the  whites  in  a  separate  pan^  and  set  it^  if  io 
3unimer^  in  cold  water :  if  you  have  any  ice  convenient^ 
set  the  pan  on  the  ice^  for  the  colder  the  eggs  are  the  bet- 
ter they  will  beat  up)^  beat  the  yolks  and  sugar  up  well 
¥^ith  a  wooden  spoon  for  twenty  minutes^  then  put  in  the 
rind  of  a  lemon  grated ;  beat  up  the  whites  with  a  whisk 
until  they  become  quite  stiffs  and  as  white  as  snow.  Stir 
them  into  the  batter  by  a  little  at  a  time;  when  all  is  in> 
then  add  three  quarters  of,  a  pound  of  flour  that  has  been 
dried  before  the  fire ;  then  put  it  in  the  molds^  and  then 
in  a  slack  oven  to  bake  :  the  mould  should  be  prepared 
before  you  begin  the  cake  in  the  following  manner-^have 
some  clarified  butter  nearly  ^sold^  and  butter  the  mould  with 
it ;  do  it  with  a  small  brush  (what  the  painters  call  a  tool)^ 
and  work  it  on  the  mould  until  it  looks  like  cream ;  mix 
about  three  ounces  of  fine  sugar  to  one  ounce  of  flour ; 
then  throw  it  all  into  one  mould  and  shake  it  about  well ; 
then  turn  it  into  another  mouldy  and  turn  the  mould  that 
has  been  floured^  &c*  upside  down,  and  knock  the  mould 
upon  the  table^  so  as  to  leave  no  more  sugar^  &c.  than 
sticks  to  the  mould ;  be  very  careful  with  the  mould,  for 
there  is  as  much  art  in  preparing  the  mould  as  there  is  in 
mixing  the  cake :  when  for  second  course,  or  suppers,  they 
should  be  ornamented  with  gum  paste. 

The  outsides  of  the  cakes. should  be  of  a  very  nice 
brown. 

CARAMELL  SUGAR. 

Put  one  pound  of  good  lump  sugar  into  a  small  sugar- 
pan,  one  pint  of  water,  and  the  white  and  shell  of  an  egg; 


Slf 

put  the  pan  on  the  stove^  and  keep  whisking  it  until  it 
boils ;  it  should  boil  a  few  nunutes  ^  then  take  it  off  and 
strain  it  through  the  tammy  into  a  basin ;  then  return  it 
into  the  sugar-pan  aud  set  it  on  the  stove  to  boil  (rather 
brisk  than  slow),  until  it  will  spin;  the  way  to  know  ^vhen 
the  sugar  is  fit  for  use^  is  to^dip  a  spoon  into  the  sugar 
and  then  into  cold  water ;  if  the  sugar  becomes  crisp  in 
the  water  it  will  do ;  if  for  a  basket  or  a  crokant  cover^  oil 
the  mould  very  little^  and  spin  the  sugar  on  about  an  hour 
before  wanted ;  tliis  sugar  will  answer  for  setting  up  cfaan- 
tillies* 

PREPARATION  FOR  WAX  BASKETS, 

And  other  Ornaments. 

To  one  pound  of  wax  put  one  pound  of  spermaceti^ 
and  one  ounce  of  flake-white^  mixed  up  with  half  the 
quantity  of  lard^  and  melt  it  all  together ;  have  the  moulds 
that  are  iuiended  for  use  ready ;  they  should  be  remarkably 
clean  in  the  inside  that  the  wax  may  not  be  discoloured ; 
oil  the  moulds,  by  dipping  a  clean  cloth  in  the  oil  and  wip- 
ing (he  moulds  over  with  it;  mind  that  the  wax  is  not  too 
hot  when  you  begin  to  cast :  if  it  is^  it  will  be  troublesome 
to  get  out;  they  are  generally  painted  in  oil  colours^  or 
may  be  ornamented  wilh  coloured  wax  or  gum  paste. 

ALMOND  PASTE 

For  Second  Course^  or  Suppers, 

Take  one  pound  of  Jordan  and  four  ounces  of  bitter 
almouds;, blanch  them  and  make  them  as  dry  as  possible ; 
rub  liiem  in  a  cloth  and  set  them  before  the  fire  for  a  few 
minutes ;  then  put  them  in  the  m^rtar^  and  pound  them 
fine  enough  to  go  through  the  tammy  ;  beat  up  the  whites 
of  two  eggs  and  put  them  in  the  mortar  by  a  little  at  a 
time  while  pounding ;  when  quite  fioe^  rub  them  through 
the  tammy ;  when  done^  put  them  in  a  small  preserviug-pan^ 
$iud  put  it  on  a  hlow  stove;  stir  in  a  pound  of  very  tiuc;  sifted 
treble-refined  sugar^  or  as  much  as  will  bring  it  to  a  paste 
consistence ;  theu   take  it  out  of  the  preserving-pan  and 


518 

t 

put  it  between  two  plates  to  sweat ;  when  cold  work  it  up, , 
and  make  it  into  what  shapes  you  please. 

MERINGUES. 

Beat  up  the  whites  of  four  eggs  with  half  a  pound  of 
double-refined  sugar^  pounded  and  sifted  through    a  lawn 
sieve ;  beat  it  up  with  a  silver  spoon  until  it  becomes  thick 
like  paste;  put  a  tea  spoonful  of  cederata  in^  or  a  lemoa 
grated ;  put  a  sheet  of  large  writing  paper  on  a    baking- 
sheet^  and  drop  the  batter  on ;  make  it  of  an  oval  shape 
as  near  as  you  can  ;  the  oven  should  be  very  slow^  and  a 
few^minutes  will  do  theni ;  when  done  take  them  off  the 
paper  by  running  a  thin  knife  under  them^  but  very  gently 
for  fear  of  breaking  them ;  put  a  little  sweetmeat  on  each 
and  stick' two  together  with   a  little  gum.     They' answer 
for  caramel  or  gum  paste  baskets^  for  desert  or  suppers. 

13UM  PASTE  FOR  ORNAMENTSv 

Put  as  much  gum  dragon  as  you  think  proper  in  a^ 
8weetmeat-poty  and  put  as  much  warm  water  as  will  oover 
it ;  then  tie  paper  over  it  and  let  it  remain  so  for  five  or 
six  hours  ;  then  take  it  out  of  the  pot  and  turn  it  upside 
down,  and   put  as  much  more  water  to  it  and  cover  it 
over,  and  let  it  remain  so  all  night,^  then  strain  it  through  a. 
cloth  ;  when  done^  put  it  in  the  mortar  with  a  little  treble- 
refined  Uimp  sugar^ pounded  andsitted  through  a  drum  sieve 
that  has  a  Cyprus  lawn  bottom  ;  it  should  be  pounded  for 
half  an  hour  ;  when  it  has   beeii  pounded  enough  it  will 
draw  into  strings ;  put  a  little  hair  powder  in  before  yoa 
take  it  out  of  ihe' mortar;  when  taken  out  of  the  mortar, 
work  it  up  witli  treble-refined  sugar  sifted  as  before-men- 
tioned, and  one-third  of  hair  powder :  you  may  make  as 
many  colours  as  you  please. 

GINGERBREAD  IN  CAKES  OR  NUTS. 

To  one  pound  of  treacle  add  the  following  articles : 
half  a  pound  of  flour,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter 
rubbed  well  into  the  fiour^  an  ounce  of  ground  ginger^  a 


519^ 

<^arter  of  a  pound   of  moist  sugar;  cut  one  ounce  6f 
citron^  one  of   dried  lemon  peel^  one  of  dried  orange 
peel^  into  very  small  pieces;  grate  all  the  peel  of  a  lemon 
^aud  a  Seville  orange  when  to  be  had) ;  rub  them  all  with 
the  flour  and  butter ;  then  make  a  hole  in  the  middle  of 
the  flour  and  put  the  treacle  in  ;  scrape  all  out  of  the  pan 
with  a  spoon ;  it  should  be  mixed  with  two  spoons ;  when' 
well  mixed  prepare  the   baking  sheets  in  the  following 
manner  (sheet  iron  ones  are  the  best  for  this  purpose) :  . 
make  the  sheets  v^ry  clean^  then  put  them  in  an  oven  t& 
\varm ;  then  dip  a  paste  brush  into  warm  clarified  butter^ 
and  brush  the  sheets  lightly  over  ;  when  the  sheets  are  quite' 
cold  drop  the  gingerbread  on^  each  drop  about  the  size  of 
half  a  crown ;  put  them  in  regular  rows  and  equal  dis« 
tances^  that  they  should  not  run  one  into  another  ;  about  a 
tea  spoonful  will   be  quite  sufficient ;  they  will  take  a  very 
few  minutes  to  bake  them  :  the  oven  should  be  about  the 
heat  after  the  drawing  of  bread;  when  taken  out  of  the 
oven^  put  them  to  become  cold  before  they  are  taken  off  the 
-tsheel;  if  you  want  to  make  nuts,  use  only  half,  and  put 
half  a  pound  of  flour  to  the  other  half^  and  mix  it  with 
your  hand ;  make  it  into  nuts  and  bake  them  in  the  same . 
manner  as  the  cakes. 

N.B.  When  baked,  the  gingerbread  should  be  put  either 
in  covered  glasses  or  covered  yellow  jars,  and  kept  in  a  dry 
place ;  by  no  doing  it  will  keep  crisp  for  several  weeks, 

A  RICH  PLUMB  CAKE. 

Take  one  pound  of  flour,  one  -pound  of  sifted  sugar, 
two  pounds  and  a  half  of  currants,  washed,  picked,  and 
dried;  two  ounces  of  citron,  two  ounces  of  dried  orange 
and  twQ  ounces  of  lemon  peel,  all  cut  very  fine ;  a  quarter 
of  a  pound  of  sweet  almonds,  cut  in  quarters  the  long 
way ;  a  tea  spoonful  of  fine  spice ;  mix  all  those  with  the 
flour,  sugar,  &c.;  rub  them  together  with  your  hand 
till  they  are  all  well  mixed ;  then  put  one  pound  of  butter 
into  a  wooden  bowl:  if  in  winter  put  it  before  the  fire  to 
soften;  in  summer   there  will  not  be  any  occasion ;  beat 


5SS 

LEMON  CAKE 

Is  made  the  same  as  the  sponge  biscuit^  only  grate  in  two 
lemons  ifistead  of  one^  and  bake  it  in  a  large  mould  :  but- 
ter the  mouldy  and  dust  it  with  flour  and  sugar  mixed  ;  the 
'  oven  should  be  quicker  than  for  a  Savoy  cake.  Savoy  drops 
.  are  made  of  this  mixture^  about  a  tea  spoonful  in  each 
drop ;  sift  a  little  sugar  over  them  before  they  are  put  in 
the  oven. 

SHREWSBURY  CAKES. 

To  one  pound  of  flour  rub  in  six  ounces  of  butter^  four 
ounces  of  currants^  four  ounces  t)f  sifted  lump  sugar;  wet 
it  with  new  milk ;  be  careful  not  to  make  it  too  wet^  as  it 
would  oblige  you  to  use  more  flour  and  make  the  cake  not 
so  rich  of  the  butter ;  roll  them  out  rather  thick^  and  cot 
them  out  with  a  cutter  for  the  purpose ;  flour  the  bakii^ 
sheet  before  they  are  put  on :  the  oven  should  not  be  veiy 
hot. 

BATH  BUNS. 

Rub  half  a  poun(](  of  butter  in  a  pound  and  a  half  of 
flour^  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  sifted  lump  sugar^  and  half 
an  ounce  of  carraway  seeds  :  the  flour^  &c.  should  be  in 
a  wooden  bowl ;  break  four  eggs  into  a  basin^  leave  out 
one  white  ;  beat  the  eggs  up ;  then  add  four  spoonsful  of  • 
£Ood  yeasty  and  half  a  pint  of  warm  milk ;  make  a  hole 
in  the  middle  and  strain  the  milk^  &c.  to  the  flour;  vtir  it 
about  with  a  spoon^  so  as  'to  mix  about  one-third  of  ihe 
flour  with  the   milk,  &c. ;  then  cover  it  over  with  a  pitce 
of  flannel^  and  set  it  before  the  fire  to  prove   for  about 
half  an  hour ;  then  mix  all  up  and  cover  it  over  until  the 
oven  is  ready ;  then  make  up  the  buns  to  the  proper  size 
and  put  them  on  a  baking   sheet ;  beat  up  au  egg  and 
.  brush  them  over;  then  put  some  carraway  sugar  plumbs  of 
the  second  size^  cover  them  over^  and  put  )hem  before  the 
fire  for  about  a  quarter  of  an  hour>  then  put  them  in  th« 
oven:  they  will  not  take  many  minutes. 


SEED  BUNS 

Are  made  tbe  same  as  tbe  Bath  buns^  with  this  differ- 
ence in  finishing :  beat  up  the  white  of  an  egg  and  brush 
thein  over,  and  sift  a  little  sugar  over  them  instead  of 
caraways. 

PLAIN  BUNS. 

Put  a  pound  of  flour  into  a  wooden  bowl ;  br<»ak  two 
egs  into  a  basin  and  bea^  them  up ;  put  half  a  pint  of  milk 
on  to  make  hot>  and  put  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter 
iu  ;  when  melted  put  it  to  the  eggsf^  and  about  three 
spopnsful  of  yeast ;'  mix  one-third  of  the  flour  and  cover 
tbe  bowl  over^  and  put  it  before  the  fire  to  prove  for  about 
half  an  horn*;  then  make  up  the  buns  and  put  them  on  a 
baking  sheet  and  cover  them  over,  and  set  them  before  the 
fire  for  about  a  quartet  of  an  hour,  then  put  them  in  the 
oven ;  when  about  half  done,  brush  them  over  witli  egg 
and  milk  beat  up. 

SMALL  TEA  CAKES; 

Rub  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter  into  one  pound  of 
flour ;  mix  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  sifted  sugar,  and  wet 
it  with  water  ;•  when  made  up  divide  it  in  equal  pieties;  put 
one  ounce  of  caraway  seeds  in  one  piece  and  leave  the 
other  plain ;  roll  them  very  thin,  and  cut  them  out  with  a 
round  paste  cutter ;  flour  the  baking  sheet  befbre  you  put 
tbem^n  ;'  they  should  be  baked  in  a  slow  oven,  and  of  a 
light  Srown. 

N  B.  They  should  be  kept  in  a  dry  place,  either  in  a 
covered  glass  or  a  covered .  pan :  small  cakes  of  all  de- 
scriptions should  be  kept  this  way^ 

ITALIAN  RUSKS. 

Cut  a  savoy  or  a  lemon  cake  into  slices,  and  divide  each 
slice  into  two;  put  tliem  on  a  baking  sheet  and  put  them 
'  in  a  slow  oven  to  get  of  a  nice  tn'owh  and  quite  hard. 


6U 

MACAROONS. 

Blaoch  one  pound  of  Jordan  almonds^  and  pound  tbem 
miite  fine :  instead  of  water  to  moisten  while  ponnding, 
the  whites  of  four  eggs  beat  up^  and  put  half  a  pound  oi 
sifted  sugar  to  them ;  when  done>  take  it  out  of  the  mor 
tar  and  put  them  on  a  plate ;  spread  a  baking  sheet  wi 
wafer-paper  J  and  put  about  -a  tea  spoonful  in  each  drop; 
then  put  tbem  in  regular  rows^  and  sift  sugar  over   thei 
before   they  are  put  in  the  oven ;  thej  do  not  -require 
quick  oven ;  when  done  take  thekn   out^  and  let  them  n 
main  on  the  sheets  until  quite  cold^  then  put  them  either  i 
a  covered  glass  or  pan. 

RATAFIES. 

They  are  made  in  all  respects  the  same  as  macaroonsi 
only  use  bitter  almonds  instead  of  sweety  and  put  the  same 
weight  of  sugar  as  of  almonds ;  they  should  be  dropped  on 
wafer-paper;  put  in  two  whites  of  e^s  while  pounding; 
put  a  tea  spoonful  in  each  drop ;  do  not  sift  any  sugar  over 
them. 

WAFERS. 

Put  half  a  pound  of  flower  and  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
sifted  sugar  into  a  basin ;  break  in  two  eggs  and  mix  them 
with  the  flour  and  sugar^  then  put  in  half  a  pint  of  cream ; 
when  well  mixed  put  in  a  little  orange-flower  water ;  when 
you  want  them  red^  put  a  few  drops  of  drawn  cochineal ; 
and^  to  make  them  yellow^  a  little  saffron  tea;  maA  the 
irons  hot ;  th^n  put  a  bit  of  butter  in  a  piece  of  clean  « 
linen  and  tie  it  up;  rub  both  sides  of  the  irons;  have  a 
clear  stove^put  the  irons  on^and  turn  them  once  or  twice ; 
then  take  them  off  and  take  out  the  wafers  while  hot^  you 
can  make  them  into  what  shape  you  please  # 

'  RASPBERRY  JAM. 

The  raspberries  should  be  gathered  in  a  <fry  day^  other* 
wise  they  loose  their  flavour^  and  if  ncft  used  soon  they 


«2a 

get  mouldy ;  to  one  quart  of  raspberries  put  one  peiind  of 
lump  sugar  (the  sugar  should  be  broken  in  the  niortar  be- 
fore put  to  the  raspberries) ;  put  the  sugar  and  raspl)erries 
into  a  preserviug-pan^  and  put  it  on  a  slow  stove  to  draw 
the  juioe ;  M'hen  the  juice  is  drawn  out>  put  it  on  a  quicker 
one  to  b6il  for  twenty  uiinutes ;  keep  stirring  it  while  on 
the  fire  with  a  copper  spoon^  or  a  iong^bandled  silver 
spoon ;  when  done>  put  it  iuto  pots^  next  day  put  sifted 
fitagar  on  the  top^  and  writing  -paper  on  that^  and  cover 
them  over  with  a  wet  bladder :  next  day  tie  paper  over 
tliem. 

RASPBERRY  JELLY. 

Pick  the  raspberries  the  same  as  for  jam^and  put  one 
pound  of  sifted  lump  sugar  to  one  quart  of  raspberries; 
put  both  ioto  a  preserving-pan ,  put  it  over  a  slow  stove, 
to  draw  the  juice^  and  let  it  simmer  very  slow^  for  near  an 
liour  ;  then  strain  it  through  a  hair-sieve;  return  the  juice 
into  the  preserving-pan,  and  set  it  over  a  quick  j^tove,  to 
boil  for  hfteen  minutes,  or  until  it  becomes  a  jelly;  then 
put  it  into  pots,  qr  glasses  4  next  day  cover  it  over,  as 
before-mentioned.  It  will  be  found  very  useful  for  ice- 
l:ream,  for  cream  for  second  courses,  suppers,  and  many 
other  uses.  Tlie  raspberries  will  do  to  mix  with  currants^ 
Sot  tarts,  puddings.  Sec.  &c. 

BARBERRIES 
For  Deserts,  or  Second  Course  Pastry^ 

^  I'bey  should  not  be  pulled  until  quite  ripe ;  if  for 
^serts,  tie  several  bunches  together,  so  as  to  make  them 
]ook  like  a  large  bunch  of  grapes;  weigh  the  barberries 
4igainst  an  equal  quantity  of  sugar  (the  sugar  should  be 
broke  in  the  mortar  biit  not  sifted);  then  put  them  both 
into  a  preserving-pan,  ^nd  \mt  it  on  a  slow  9tove  to  draw 
the  juice  from  the  barberries ;  when  the  juice  is  drawn  out, 
put  the  pan  oh  a  quicker  fire  to  boil  for  about  twenty 
minutes;  then  take  |he  bunches  up  with  a  slice  and  lay  them 


52« 

9D  a  hair^tieve :  die  sieiw  should  be  put  on  a  dish  to  catd 
the  syrup  that  will  drain  froon  the  barberries  ;  when  the; 
are  quite  dry,  lay  them  in  oval  pots ;  put  what  syrup  hi 
drained  from  them  into  the  preserving^pan ;  then  put  th 
pan  on  a  quick  stove  to  boil  for  about  ten  minuted,  or  until  i 
comes  to  a  jelly,  which  you  will  know  by  dropping  a  little  oi 
a  plate;  when  done,  pat  it  over  the  barberries ;  next  dq 
cover  them  over  the  same  as  raspberry  jam. 

N.B.  The^  barberries  hx  the  kitchen  use  should  be 
stripped  from  the  stalks :  in  all  other  respects  do  them  tk 
same  as  the  bunches. 

BARBERRY  JELLY. 

Pick  the  barberries  from  the  stalks,  and  weigh  tfaem 
against  an  equal  quantity  of  lump  sugar ;  put  both  into 
the  preserving-pan ;  put  it  on  a  slow  stove,  and  let  t 
simmer  for  an  hour;  then  strain  the  juice  through  a  hair- 
sieve  ;  return  the  juice  into  the  pan,  and  put  it  on  a  quick 
stove,  to  boil  for  about  twenty  minutes,  or  until  it  becomes 
a  jelly,  which  will  be  known  by  dropping  a  little  on  the 
bottom  of  one  of  the  sweetmeat  pots  ;  when  done,  put  it 
into  the  pots,  and  turn  it  over,  as  before-mentioned. 

N.B.  It  will  be  found  very  useful  in  ail  families  tft 
have  barberries  by  them,  as  they  will  answef  every  purpon 
equal  to  the  tamarinds ;  indeed  they  have  a  much  find 
acid  belonging  to  them. 

APRICOT  JAM.  ^ 

Peel  the  apricots  very  tibin,  cut  them  in  quarters  (tab 
care  of  the  stones),  weigh  them,  and  weigh  three-quartoi 
as  much  sugar — that  is,  to  one  pound  of  apricots,  put  thre^ 
quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar ;  put  a  pint  of  water  it 
each  pound  of  sugar  into  the  preserviug-pan,  and  set  il 
on  the  stove  to  boil  quick ;  as  the  scum  rises,  skim  it  off; 
you  will  know  when  it  has  boiled  enough,  by  its  hangiii| 
to  the  spoon ;  then  put  in  the  apricots,  and  let  them  boi 
ibr  fifteen  minutes;  keep  stirring them^  either  withasilvei 


^  a  copper  spoop^  while  on  the  fire;  when  done,  put 
them  in  pots^  and  tie  them  up  the  same  as  the  raspberry 
|am.     - 

APRICOTS,  WHOLE. 

Pare  them  very  thin  and  even ;  split  them  on  one  side^ 
so  as  to  take  out  the  stones,  without  dividing  the  apricots ; 
^eigh  the  apricots,  add  half  their  weight  of  sugar,  and  one 
pint  of  water  to  a  pound  of  sugar;  put  the  sugar  and 
water  into  the  preserving-pan,  and  put  it  on  to  boil ;  skioi 
it  clean,  as  the  scum  rises ;  it  should  boil  until  the  sugar 
hangs  to  the  spoon ;  then  put  in  the  apricots,  and  let  them 
simmer  very  gently  for  about  ten  minutes ;  then  take  them 
up  v(rith  a  small  slice,  and  lay  them  on  a  hair-sieve  to 
drain ;  put  a  dish  under  the  sieve,  to  catch  the  syrup  that 
may  drain  from  them ;  wnen  drained,  lay  them  in  the 
pots  ;  put  the  syrup  drained  from  them  in  the  preserving- 
pan,  and  put  it  on  the  fire,  to  reduce   to  the  quantity 
wanted  to  cover  the  apricots ;  next  day,  tie  them  over  the 
same  as  raspberry  jam* 

APRICOTS,  IN  BRANDY. 

Make  a  very  weak  syrup,  at  the  rate  of  half  a  pound  of 

sugar  to  two  quarts  of  water;  boil  it  for  half  an  hour, 

and  be  careful  to  skim  it  very  clean;  take  it  on  the  fire, 

and  put  the  apricots  in,  one  at  a  time,  for  fear  of  bruising 

-them ;  then  put  them,  on  a  very  slow  fire,  to  simmer  very 

gently  for  about  five  minutes;  get  a  bunch  of  feathers, 

wet  them  in  the  syrup,  and  turn  the  apricots  with  them ; 

a  spoon,  or  any  thing  of  that  sort,  would  bruise,  or  crac]^ 

their  skins,  which  would  spoil  the  look  of  them,  for  they 

look  nearly  as  well  as  when  fresh  gathered ;  when  done, 

take  them  up,  one  at  a  time,  with  a  slice,  and  lay  them  on 

a  clean  cloth  to  dry,  and  so^k  up  any  syrup  that  they  may 

discharge;  have  white  brandy,  either  in  glass  or  earthen 

jars  (glass  is  preferable) ;  fill  the  jars  half  full  with  white 

brandy,  and  put  the  apricots  in,  one  at  a  time;  put  a 


598 

quarter  of  a  pound  of  white  sugar-candj^  pounded^  to 
quart  of  brandy. 

N.  B.  Do  not  put  any  of  the  syrup  with  the  apricots, 
their  being  sweet  is  of  no  consequence,  as  there  is  always 
sugar  on  the  talde  with  the  desert  |  the  apricota  should  ba 
of  the  finest  growth  and  colour. 

PEACHES,  IN  BRANDY. 

Follow  the  same  rules  as  for  apricots^  without  fte 
amaliest  deviation. 

NECTARINES,  IN  BRANDY. 

They  are  done  in  tlie  same  manner  as  tlie  apricots. 

GREEN  GAGE  PLUMBS,  &c.  IN  BRANDY. 

They  are  done  in  the  same  manner  as  the  apricota. 

CHERRIES,  IN  BRANDY. 

Morella  cherries  are  the  proper  ones  for  this  purpose : 
cut  half  the  stalk  off,  put  them  in  a  glass  or  a  jar^  and 
lialf  a '  pound  of  white  siigar^candy,  pounded,  aod  about 
a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  cloves,'  to  each  quart  of  whita 
brandy ;  a  few  apricot  or  peach  kernels  (or  bitter  almonds, 
blanched)  will  give  the  liquor  a  pleasant  flayonr ;  put  a 
piece  of  wet  bladder  over  the  jar,  or  glass ;  and  the  next 
day  put  paper  ever  the  bladder. 

RED  CURRANT  JELLY. 

Pick  the  currants  from  the  stalks,  and  put  them  into  a 
broad  pan,  similar  to  a  milk-^nin ;  to  about  four  quarts  of 
currants,  put  about  one  pound  of  sifted  lump  sugar ;  put 
it  to  them  the  day  before  you  make  the  jelly  (by  puttii^ 
the  sugar  to  the  currants  it  draws  the  juice  out);  put  the 
currants  into -a  preserving-pan,  over  a  verj  slow  fire,  iv 


529 

« 

nmnier  gently  for  about  twenty  minutes;  the  slower  they 
sifnmer^  the  better  they  will  discharge  the  juipe ;  when 
you  think  it  is  all  dischargedt  strain  it  through  a  hair« 
sieves  and  theii  through  a  jeHy->bag>  while  quite  hot^  as  it 
inrill  run  tiirough  the  faster ;  to  each  quart  ofjuice  put  one 
pound  of  lump  sugar,  pounded;  put  it  in  a  preservings 
pan^  and  set  the  pan  over  a  quick  stove^  to  boil  for  twenty 
mifiates ;  when  done^  put  it  into  either  pots  or  glasses^ 
and  cover  it  over^  the  same  as  othejr  sweetmeats. 

BLACK  CURRANT  JELLY. 

This  is  made  the  same  as  the  red ;  instead  of  one  potmd 
of  sugar  to  a  quarts  put  only  half  a  pound. 

ELDER  ROB 

Is  made  from  the  elderberries^  and  finished  the  same  a» 
black  currant  jelly.  It  is  a  good  thing  for  cQughs  and 
colds. 

PRESERVED  ORANGES,  WHOLE. 

Cut  out  the  tops  of  the  oranges  (where  the  stalk« 
grow)  big  enough  for  a  tea*spoon  to  go  in;  scoop  the 
puip  out ;  put  the  oranges  in  spring  water ;  let  ibem 
remain  in  three  or  four  daiys ;  change  the  water  every  day; 
strain  the  juice  and  put  it  by  till  wanted ;  put  the  oranges 
on  to  boily  and  when  they  come  to  a  boil  take  them  off  and 
change  tl^e  water^  and  put  them  on  again;  boil  them  until 
tender,  but  not  so  as  to  lose  their  shape ;  for  half  a  dozen 
of  oranges,  make  a  syrup  as  follows :  put  two  quarts  of  the 
water  the  oranges  were  lasrt  boiled  in,  and  four  pounds  of 
single  refined  sugar,  into  a  preserving-pan  ;  set  it  over  the 
fire  to  boil ;  if  any  scum  rises  skim  it  off;  when  the  sugar 
hangs  to  the  spoon,  then  put  in  the  oranges  and  the  juice ; 
put  the  pan  oyer  the  stove  to  boil  stow  for  about  ten 
mmutes ;  then  take  them  up  with  a  slice  and  put  them  in  a 

A  K 


-  580 

large  bftsin^  pour  the  sytvip^  over  tbemj  aad  set  tiiein  by 
tiH  next  day ;  then  put  them  on  again  tQ  bioii  very  slow  for 
about  a  quarter  of  an  hour;  then  take  them. up  mlha 
spooa  that  has  holes  hi  ity~-*it  is  called  a  cullender^apooa; 
lay  the  oranges  On  the  back  of  a  sieve  t<^;draia;  mind  ta 
have  a  dish  under  the  sieve  to  catch  the  syrup ;  put  what 
drsdns  from  the  oranges  into  the  preserving^pao,  and  set 
the  pan  over  the  fire  to  boil  the  syrup  a  little  loxver  ^  put 
the  oranges  into  aglass  or  yellow  jar^  and  pour- the ^ynip 
over  them  (if  you  put  them  in  a  glass  jar  you  should  let  the 
syrup  cooly  otherwise  you  would  break  the  jar) ;  next  day 
cover  them  over^ 

N.B,  Lemons  are  done  exactly  the  same  way:  TIk 
month  of  march  is  the  best  time  for  Seville  orapges* 

PRESERVED  ORANGES  IN  SLICES. 

Cut  the  oranges  in  slices^  and  put  them  in  water  the 
sameasthe  whole;-  die  sKcev^shnaki  be  abo«l  s^qmrter^f 
an  incb  iBakk  4  finish  them  the  same  as  the  wbole  cwng^gii 

APPLE  JELLY. 

*  • 

The  aprple^  should  be  gathered  when  foil  growti,  but 
not  the  least  ripe ;  k  is  immateria)  what  sort  tlkey>iii\e;^  .cot 
then)  in  quarters  or  sliiHis  without  peetii^^  (o>  a  peck  of 
apples  put  four  quarts  of  water  f  put  them  in  a  stenK^paii 
and  set  them-  on  to  boil  for  four  houra;  they  shouI4  not 
boilfa^t;  strain  the  liquor  from  the  ^pplesy  mlpiaitliy 
to  settle  till  nextdi^y  $  Uien  strain  it  tbioiigh  « tammj^aiere 
into  a  preaerviiig-'paOy  and  to  each  quart  of  Uqiii4|piit,« 
pound  and  4  half  of  lumpsugari  put  it  over  Ibe  atoye  to 
boil  qiiick:  as  t^e  seum  rise^take  it  off,;  it  shquUoboil 
twenty  minutes-;  tbcui  put  them  into  pots^  and.  the  o»nt  day 
paper  them  over. 

i>RIED  APPLES. 

file  steqpe  pippin  is  a  very  good  apphi  for  llii^^M/  but 
there  are  se^^at  other  sorts  willanawer  theptofpoie  very 


581 

« 

^iretT;  f  prefer  did  first-^ineiitioned  sort;  tbejr  sbould  to 
free  from  UeniUies^  and  not  ov&  ripe ;  put  them  on  iMik* 
ing'fibeettf^  and  put  them  in  a  slow  oven,  that  hts  been 
heated  and  used  in  the  course  of  the  d^y ;  let  them  stlig^ 
all  nif^t;  itiht  tbeim  oiit  in  die  moriiing;  and  set  diem  Irf 
till  next  evening,  and  put  them  in  the  oven  as  before;  they 
should  be  put  in  three  times^  or  until  the  inside  is  quite 
soft;  then  pinch  tliem  between  your  finger  and  thumb  by 
way  of  making  them  flat ;  lay  them  regularly  on  a  board  for 
the  purpose,  and  put  a  boaril  of  the  same  srbse  over  tfaetn». 
and  a  weight  heavy  enough  to  press  th^la  nearly  flat^  bm 
not  lo  burst  them* 

Nh«B.  The  slower  tbe^  ar^  dried  the  toligher  the  skins 
wiU  g^t^  and  bear  more  pressii^  without  bursting* 

DAMSON  CHEESE 

Is  made  from  the  symp  of  the' damsons  by  boiKng  it 
down  very  slow^  so  as  to  becenBUe  a  thick  substiAfice ;  it  is 
very  apt  to  bum  if  not  paid  particular  attention  to  by  stir- 
ring it  fre^piently;  then  put  it  in  round  or  oval  pots,  the 
shallower  the  better,  as  it  will  be  more  handy  for  cutting 
out;  crack  the  stones  and  take  the^emel^  out,  add  bbinea 
them  the  same  as  almoi^,  and  put  it  in  the  pots  while  the 
cheese  is  hot. 

N.B.  The  kernels  should  be  prepared  the  day  before. 

nAMSONS  FOR  WES,  TAR-TS,  &c. 

The  damsonn  should  be  quite  ripe>  and  gathered  on  a 
dry  day;  pull  the  stalks  out  and  put  them  injurs)  fill 
the  jars  better  than  three  parts  full,  and  put  moist  sugar 
at  the  rate  of  one  pound  to  three  pounds  of  damsons; 
cover  the  jars  over  with  paste  made  of  course  flour  and 
W9ilar  ^  put  them  in  a  very '  slow  ovea  die  iMt  thing  in  the 
eiKMig,  aooP  let  them  sts^  in  all  nighty  take  them  out 
neit  nKM'aiiig  and  strain  the  syrup  from  them-  through  a 
bttr-sieve ;  let  the  damsons  remain  io  the  siev^  to  drain  % 

A  A  £ 


53d 

put  the  syrup  into  a  preserving-pan^  and  put  it  09  the  dre 
to  tKnl  for  about  ten  minutes ;  return  tbe  damsons  into  tbe 
jars^  and  put  syrup  sufficient  to  cover  theni ;  the  next  day 
put  clarified  mutton  suet^  about  one  inch  deep,  over 
them;  the  fat  should  be  very  hotj  the  day  following  tie 
paper  over  them. 

BOTTLED  GOOSEBERRIES. 

.  The  gooseberries  for  this  purpose  should  be  of  <he 
hairy  kind  and  full  grown,  but  not  ripe;  th^riiouldbe 
gathered  of  a  dry  day;  top  and  tail  Ihem,  put  them  in 
gooseberry  bottie^  and  put  the  bottles  into  a  fii3i-kettle ; 
put  a  little  hay  in,  fill  the  kettle  up  as  full  as  it  will  hold, 
and  put  it  over  the  stove  to  boil ;  when  the  gooseberries 
change  colour  all  through » take  them  out  and  set  tliem  by 
till  next  day;  then  fill  up  the  bottles  (as  they  generally 
shrink)  by  emptying  sorpe  of  them  to  fill  up  the  rest;  cork 
them  very  tight  aiKi  cement  diem  over.     .     . 

T50TTLED  CURRANTS  WHILE  GREEN. 
They  are  done  the  same  as  the  gooseberries. 

BOTTLED  DAMSONS. 

Fill  the  bottles  as  full  as  you  can,  tic  a  bladder  over  them^ 
and  put  the  bottles  either  into  the  oven  to  bake  or  into  a 
fish-kettl6  to  boil,  until  the  damsons  are  quite  hot  through, 
M'hich  you  will  know  by  their  shrinking ;  when  done  put 
them  in  the  cellar. 

«  * 

APRICOT  ICE. 

Mix  half  a  pound  of  apricot  jam  in  a  quart  of  cr^m  ; 
when  well  mixed  put  a  little  more  sugar^  if  wanted,  and  a 
small  glass  of  ratifie  ;  rub  it  through  the  tammy  ^  then  put 
it  into  the  freezing-pot  and  put  that  into  the  ice  tub ;  it 


533 

should  be  in  the  ice  tub  balf  an  hour  before  you  begin  to 
work  it ;  the  ice  for  freezing  should  be  pounded  into  small 
pieces,  and  salt  mixed  with  it;  work  the  freezing-pot 
well  round  until  it  sticks  to  the  sides;  then  scrape  it  off 
with  the  slio^  for  that  purpose,  and  go  on  working  it  round 
in  the  ice  until  it  is  all  froze,  and  become  a  thick  body ; 
tlien  leave  it  covered  over  in  the  ice  for  half  an  hour ;  .theh 
take  it  out  and  fill  the  moulds;  put  writing  paper  at  the 
top  and  bottom  of  the  mould,  by  way  of  keeping  the 
ice  from  sticking  to  the  lid;  bury  the  moulds  in  the  iee; 
when  wanted>  have  a  pan  of  cold  water  and  wash  the 
moulds  all  over,  which  will  make  the  ice  turn  out  smooth : 
the  turning,  out  of  the  ice  should  be  left  to  the  last  minute. 

rAberry  ice. 

If  in  summer,  rub  three  pint  of  raspberries  through  a 
tammy,  and  put  one  quart  of  cream ;  sweeten  it  with 
sifted  lump  sugar;  finish  the  same  as  the  apricot  ice.  When 
fresh  raspberries  are  over,  use  raspberry  jam  and  raspberry 
jelly,  which  will  make  it  as  rich  as  the  fresh  raspberries  : 
just  warm  them  and  rub  them  through  the  tammy* 

STRAWBERRY  ICE. 
Strawberry  ice  is  made  the  same  as  the  raspberry. 

BARBERRY  ICE. 

Mix  half  a  pint  of  barberry  jelly,  just  warmed,  with  a 
pint  and  a  half  of  cream  ;  make  it  palatable  by  putting  a 
little  more  sugar,  if  wanted,  and  a  glass  of  ratifie. 

BARBERRY  WATER  ICE. 

Warm  a  pint  and  a  half  of  barberry  jelly :  make  it  up 
a  quart  with  water  that  has  boiled  and  become  cold  ;  add  a 
little  sugar  and  a  glass  of  brandy,  and  finish  as  other  ices. 

*-    AA  8 


594 

t 

ORANG  ICE. 

Tamriie  one  quart :  squeeze  twelve  Obitifl  oranges; 
peel  six  of  tbem  very  thin,  and  boii  k  in  a  pint  of  water; 
It  should  boil  for  about  ten  minutes ;  i/vhen  cold  strain  it 
into  a  ba^n^  and  sttain  the  orange  juice  likevi'ise ;  mis 
them  and  sweeten  it ;  it  should  be  rich  of  the  sugar ;  put  a 
glass  of  rattfie  in^  and  finish  the  same  as  other  ic^s. 

N.B.  Lemon  ice  b  made  the  same  way.  AH  water 
ices  should  be  made  rich  with  fruit  and  sugar. 

BROWN  BREAD  ICE. 

Boil  about  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  the  crumb  of  a 
brown  loaf  in  a  quart  of  cream  j^|j^en  boiled  put  it  to 
cbol;  when  cold,'  rub  it  through  The  tammy,  sweeten  it, 
and  add  a  glass  of  brandy  or  ralifie* 

PINE  APPLE  IGE. 

Slice  a  small  pine  apple  and  put  it  inip  a  f^nm^rvrngr 
pan,  and  half  a  pound  of  lump  s\ig»T  and  three  pints  of 
water ;  set  it  over  the  stove  to  boil  very  slow  for  an  hour; 
then  strain  it  off  and  put  a  glass  of  Nqyeau  in,  and  finish 
as  all  other  ices. 

PEACH  AND  NECTARINE  ICE.  ' 

Cut  six  peaches  in  pieces,  and  put  one  quart  of  water 
into  a  preserving  pan  and  half  a  pound  of  siigar ;  set  it 
-  on  the  stove  to  boil  very  riow  for  twenty  minutes;  break 
the  stones  and  bruise  the  kernels,  and  put  them  in ;  when 
boiled  enough  strain  it  off,  and  if  it  wants  any  more  sugar 
put  it  in^  and  a  glass  of  ratifie;  finish  as  all  other  ices. 

NECTARINE  ICE* 

This  Is  made  in  the  same  manner  as  the  peachy  witiioat 
the  smallest  deviation. 


6»5 

RASPBERRY  AND  STRAWBERRY  WATE» 
0  iC£. 

Hub  three  pints  of  jraqiberries  ilirough  a  tammy ;  add 
a  pint  of  water  to  them^  which  will  enable  jou  to  get  them 
better  through  it ;  if  there  is  «ot  a  quarts  make  it  up  with 
water ;  sweeten  it  with  sifted  sugar^  and  finish  as  all  other 
ices*    For  Strawberries^  follow  ihe  same  directions. 

LEMONADE. 

To  make  one  quarts  peel  six  lemons  very  tlun,  so  as  not 
to  have  any  of  th«  white  part  to  what  you  peel  off;  pat 
the  peel  into  three  pints  of  water^  and  put  it  in  a  sittaU 
ftfesendng  pan^  with  one  pound  of  sugar ;  pot  k  on  the 
stove^  to4ioil  very  slow  for  one  hour ;  in  -the  mean  tkne^ 
aqueeae  the  leraoHs^  and  strain  the  juice  into  a  jug ;  when 
the  lemoD-peel  has  b(»led  the  time  intended^  strain  it  Into 
the  jug  that  has  the  lemon-juice  in;  if  it  sbouid  not  1^ 
BweeC  enough^  add  what  sugar  is  sufficient;  when  ooki^ 
put  it  into  a  xkicanter ;  and>  in  summer,  put  the  decanter 
m  ice. 

Nk  B.  Owmgoade  is  made  the  same  way,  withoiit  ttiy 
deflation ;  use  half  Seville  onmgesi  whea  to  be  bad. 

ORGEAT. 

To  make  one  quart,  blanch  a  quarter  of  a  pouad  of 
Jordan,  and  half  an  ounce  of  bitter,  almonds ;  put  them 
in  a  mortar,  and  pound  them  ^eryfine ;  add  a  few  spoons* 
full  of  spring  water  to  them,  while  pounding ;  when  very* 
.  fiae,  rub  thenft  through  the  tammy,  and  put  a  titUe  water 
iq,  as  it  will  make  them  go  through  the  easier;  a 
tammy-eieve  will  do  as  well  as  a  temn^y ;  whon  rubbed 
through,  put  eifted  sugar  to  sw«etea  them,  immI  a  quart 
of  water,  |l)y  a  Utile  yst  a  tiivie ;  then  put  it  into  n  decanter 
for  use* 


636 


DIRECTIONS  TO  MAKE  ALL  KINDS  OF 


PICKLES. 


GIRKINS. 

Put  them  in  ajar ;  then  fill  it  up  with  salt  and  water; 
if  convenient,  put  them  where  the  sun  will  shine  on  thenij 
otherwise  at  a  small  distance  from  the  fire,  for  three  or 
four  days,  till  tbey  begin  to  look  yellow.;  then,  pour  the 
salt  and  water  from  them ;  put  as  much  yinegar^  aa  yoo 
think  will  cover  them,  .on  to  boil ;  when  it  haa  boiled,  pat 
it  over  the  ^^irkins,  widi  vine  ieaves  oyer  them ;  scuff  a 
clean  cloth  into  the  mouth  of  the  jar,  and  let  tbeoi  stand 
till  nearly  cold ;  then  pour  the  vinegar  off,  boil  it  i^^a, 
pour  it  over  the  girkins,  and  repeat .  it  once  more ;  boil  a 
quarter  of  an  ounce  of  mace,  one  ounce.of  white  pepper^ 
two  ounces  of  gioger>.one  ounce,  of  long  pepper»  and  one 
ounce  of  bay  salt,  in  two  quarts  of  vinegar ;  it  should  boil 
about  a  quarter  of  an  hour ;  about  three  minutes  before 
it  is  taken  off  the  fire^  put.  in  about  two  dp^n  shalots ; 
poiir  thj^  vinegar^  that  greened  the  girkins,  from  them,  and 
put.the%ot  vin^ar  and  spice  in  its  place;  when  quite 
cold,  cover  the  jar  with  a  bladder ;  and  the  next  day  put 
leather  over  tliat. 

PICKLED  WALNUTS. 

When  the  walnuts  are  foil  grown,  and  wiH  admit  a  pin 
to  go  through  them  with  ease,  they  are  in  good  order  for 
pickling :  put  them  in  a  strong  brine  of  salt  and  water ; 
they  should  remain  in  the  pickle  about  eight  days,  so  at 
to  get  all  the  bitter  out;  the  pickle  should  be  chalked 
two  or  three  times,  to  make  them  a  good  black ;  pat 
them  on  the  back  of  a  large  sieve,  leave  them  in  the  sun. 


537 

and  they  will  get  black  enough  in  the  coutse  of  the  day ; 
b6il  as  much  vinegar  as  will  cover  them  well ;  put  abcyt 
two  ounces  of  bay-salt  to  a  gallon  of  vinegar ;  when  it 
has  boiled  about  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  put  it  over  the. 
walnuts,  and  stop  the  jar  down  very  close,  by  stuffing  a» 
clean  rubber  into  the  mouth  of  the  jar :  for  one  hundred 
of  walnuts^  take  two  ounces  of  whole  white  pepper,  two. 
ounces  of  white  mustard-seed,  four  ounces,  of  whole, 
ginger^  a  stick  of  horseradish^  schiped  clean,  and  cut  in 
slices ;  two  ounces  of  allspice,  two  ounces  of  long  pepper,,, 
one  ounce  of  mace,  and  a  few  bay-leaves ;  boil  all  these. 
in  a  quart  of  vinegar,  for  about  half  an  hour;,  about  five 
minutes  before  you  takd^em  from. the  fire,  put  a.  quarter, 
of  a  pound  of  shalots,  and  two  cloves  of  garlic  in  ;^  when* 
cold>  put  them  to  the  walnuts  ;  first  pour  off  some  of  the: 
vinegar  from  them,  least  it  shotild  not  hold  the  vinegar  audi 
Bpice  ;  tie  them  over  first  with  a  bladder^  and  afterwards^ 
with  leather.. 

PICKLED  onions; 

Small  button  onions  (those  which  are  called^isilver  onions)) 
are  the  best ;:  put  them  in  hot  ji^ater,  toniake  them;  peel, 
easy ;  there  should  be  three  skins  taken  off,  but.  be  very.' 
careful  not  to  cut  the  root ;  put  th^m.in.salt  and  water,  as 
you. peel  them>  in  which-  they  should  remain<  one  day;  if 
intended  to  be  very,  white,  put  distilled' vinegar  into  a  stew- 
pan,  sufiicient  to  hold  the  onions,,  and: a,  little-  bay-salt;, 
when  the  vinegar  boils,,  put  in  the  onions,  and  let  them 
mmmer.  very,  slow  for  a  few  minutes  f.  then  take  them  out;. 
tey  them  on  a  clean  cloth,  with  another  over  them^  and 
if  any  of  the  skins   are  cracked'  take  them  off,  as  the 
beauty  of  the  onions  consistSNin  having  Ihem  of  a  good' 
colour,  and  quite  free  from ^  blemish  ;  boil  a  little  white- 
pepper  whole,  and  a. little  mace,  in  the  vtgeg$ir  the  oniony. 

'■     were  done  in  ;. it.  should  boil  abotit  ten  minutes;  when ^ 
quii^cold^  put  theL  onions  in  a  jar,,  and  the  vinegar  and: 

L^    epice  over  them ;  when  perfectly  cold,  tie  them  over  with. 

'K  a  bladder,  and. leather.  * 

^     ,  •       A  A  4: 


53S 

RED  CABBAGfi* 

Cut  die  red  cabbage  in  quarters  ;  take  out  the  stalk  and 
outside  leaves ;  shred  it  fiae^  salt  it,  and  put  it  on  the  bot« 
tern  of  a  hair-sieve  (a  torn-sieve  is  best);  put  it  out 
in  the  san  for  tvcb  days ;  fheh  put  en  vinegtir  (a  suflSdent 
quantity  for  the  cabbie  you  have  done)  to  boil ;  put  in 
an  ounce  of  bay-salt  to  a  quart  of  vinegar^  one  eunee  of 
ginger^  one  ounce  of  allspic^e^  one  ounce  of  black  pepper, 
and  a  fiiw  chillies  bruised ;  it  should  boil  for  about  half 
an  hour ;  put  the  cabbage  in  the  jar^  and, ^  hen  tbe  vine- 
gar' ifl  quite  coM^  put  it  over  the  cabbage ;  then  tie  a 
bladder  over  it ;  and,  \i4ien  it  is  dry,  pot  white  ieather 
overit*^ 

FRENCH  BCANB. 

They  are  done  in  the  same  manner  as  the  girkins. 

PICCALILLI. 

Tliis  con^ist^  of  all  kinds  of  pickles  n)i}(ed>  and.  pat 
into  one,  large  jsu: — j^iki^^  ^sliced  ^cucumbers,  button 
onions^  cauliflower  broke  in  pieces,  salted  and  put  on  a 
large  hair-sieve  in  the  sun  to  dry  for  tliree  days;  then! 
scald  it  in  vinegar  for  three  or  fouf^  nunuti^s^  or  less ;  when 
coldt,  put  it  to  the  other  pickles.  ,  Large  white  cabbage,  cu^ 
in  quarters,  with  the  outside  leaves  taken  oiST;  then  cut 
it  iine,  salt  it,  and  put  it  in  the  $uii  to  dry  for  three  or  fourj 
d^ys ;  then  scald  it  in  vinegar,  the  same  as  the  cauliflower. 
Carrots,  three  parts  boiled  in  vinegar,  and  a  little  bay-i 
«alt ;  cut  them  in  shapes  with  a  pa3te  cutter^  or  as  faiicjF 
directs.  Frenich  beans,  rock  Bajnphire,  reddish  pod^A  andl 
nasturchions,  all  gp  through  the  same  process  aa  girkius,. 
Capsicums*  ^o  one  gallon  of  vinegar  put  four  ounces  of 
ginger  bruised,  two  ounces  of  whole  white  pepper j  tWQ> 
ounces  of  allspice,  half  an  ounce  of  chillies,  bruised,  four 
ounces  of  turme^ick,  one  pound  of  the  best  mustard^  l^atf! 
a  pound  of  shsdots,  one  ounce  of  garlic^  and  half  a  pound 


i 


"C 


539 

^  tey-^fah ;  the  vinegar,  spice,  and  other  ingrediiBnts, 
except  the  mustard,  must  boil  half  an  hour;  then  strain  it 
into  a  pan  *;  put  the  mustard  into  a  large  basin,  and  put 
a  little  vinegar  to  it ;  first  mix  it  quite  fine,  and  free  from 
lumps,  then  put  more,  and  so  on  ;  when  well  mixed,  put 
it  to  tb«  ^unegarjuat  «rtrakied  off^  when  quite  cold,  put 
the  pickles  into  a  large  pan,  and  the  liquor  over  them ; 
thea  «dr  lliem  up,  so  as  to  mk  them  aH;  theit  pot  them 
iatt)  a  jar,  vnd  tie  vtiooti  over  ^rst  wiA  Madder,  and  'after« 
naiiib  tvifth  lenther. 

N  B.  The  capsicums  want  no  preparation. 

PICKLED  MUSHROOMS,  WHITE. 

The  mushrooms  that  are  best  for  pickling  are  the  natu-* 
ral  ones;  the  size  are  commonly  called  buttons;  they 
should  be  done  as  soon  as  possible  after  being  gathered  ; 
and  the  earlier  they  are  gathered  in  the  morning,  the 
whiter  they  will  be  when  pickled ;  first  have  a  basin  ot 
milk  and  water,  then  a  piece  of  fine  flannel,  and  a  little 
salt;  cut  off  the  root  and  what  rough  edges  they  may^ 
have ;  put  a  little  salt  on  the  flannel,  and  rub  the  mush* 
rooms  on  it  to  clean  them,  and  put  them  in  the  milk  and 
water ;  when  done,  pour  the  milk  and  water  from  them, 
put  them  on  a  clean  cloth,  and  put  another  over  them,  by 
way  of  soaking  all  the  milk  and  water  from  them ;  then 
put  them  into  a  very  clean,  or  a  new  tin  stew-pan ;  put 
a  little  salt  (about  half  an  ounc^)  <o  a  quart  of  mush- 
rooms, and  about  half  an  ounce  of  white  \^  hole  pepper ; 
a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  mace  will  do  for  two  quarts  of 
mushrooms ;  set  them  on  a  slow  stove,  to  simmer  gently 
for  about  ten  minutes ;  then  take  them  up  with  a  slice,  so 
as  not  to  take  up  any  of  the  liquor ;  cover  the  mushrooms 
over  with  a  cloth  ;  reduce  the  liquor  to  one-half,  and  then 
put  in  as  much  distilled  vinegar  to  the  liquor  of  the  mush- 
rooms as  you  think  will  be  sufiicient  to  cover  them,  when 
put  into  bottles ;  the  vinegar  should  boil  about  five  mi- 
nutes; then  put  it  over  the  mushrooms;  next  day  put 


^40 

the  mushrooms  in  bottles ;  cork  the  bottles  very  tight^  and 
cement  them  over. 

N.  B.  The  bottles  should  have  wide  mouths^  the  same 
as  for  gooseberries. 

■ 

PICKLED  MUSHROOMS,  BROWN. 

* 

If  they  are  larger  than  those  for  vf^hite^  all  the  better ; 
they  should  be  cleaned  the  same  way^  and  finished  in  the 
same  manner,  only  using  white  wine  vio^ar  instead  of 
distiUed.  .        . 


J 


DESERTSii  f 


X  HE  amall  variety  of  different  dishes  wliick  come 
under  this  head^  allows  but  little  scope  m  point  of 
chaoge^  and  reqijures  not  so  much  head-apiece  as  taste ; 
the  great  art  consisting  principally  in  laying  out  a  table 
MFith  a  skilful  fancy^  of  introducing  the  same  articles  in 
different  directions,  so  as  to  please  the  eye,  and  give  that 
variegated  appearance  to  the  whole^  as  wouM^^  at- £rst 
sights  lead  the  guest  to  imagine  a  greater  imiltiplieity  of 
dainties  than  really  existed. 

In  seasons^  when  fruits  cannot  be  procured  in  ^eat 
variety^  the  bill  of  fare  may  be  greatly  tind  elegantly  ex- 
tended^ by  a  judicious  selection  of  articles  of  confectionary 
and  sweetmeats^  occasionally  interspersed,  not  too  closely 
or  profusely  introduced,  but  with  a  tasty  sparii^^ness, 
which  will  assist  even  to  give  effect  to  the  whole,  in  the 
absence  of  more  desirable  plates  of  natural  productions* 

Under  these  impressions— admitting^,  as  tbey  W0uld> 
such  a  variety  of  combinations,  the  Author  has  confined 
himself  to  a  plain  selection  of  the  principal  articles  in 
season  in  each  month,  merely  to  give  a  good  general  idea 
ef  laying  out  a  table  for  deserts^  leaving  to  the  house- 
keeper to  vary,  and  increase  or  diminish^  according  to  her 
taste;  or  the  extent  of  her  company. 


543 


A  D^ERt  FOR  Ji/»jtMRY. 


Pr€t9r9cd  -Xiv^ngesm 


>■<     <  ■ i<t>i      I ! 


L«mon  Chips. 

mill  1 1    »<iiiii  it      itfcti 


^-^ 


.  ,    /Bineai^, 


f 


r  »    * 


Apples. 


it'  - 


ii«l      1  ^^— ^W»"^^"^P>«WW»— ^iW*- 


Savo^  Cakes, 


^  ..  ;  .^^     1  ■  ^     .J  J  , ..  .  .^  . .  ^ 


QnoenlhigAs 

.  in  Swop. 


l^pibs*  Biscuit: 


>«T*'****""^'^^«**w***~^i»' 


Muscadells 
mi  Ahniimils. 


Miiscadeils 
and  Almonds. 


kApa. 


Sponge  Biseaito. 


■    '   ■  ■"!   ^i^HH*'***'^*^— 


n<H    M><iHlHn*Mi'iii    ^ 


f^a^     . 


I 


■■  I  1 —  ^'1 


ill  S^rup. 


ft  »■ 


A}>pi<5*, 


i!)ried  Apricots. 


Bisfuit^ 


Orange  Chips. 


Portugal  Grapes, 


rta^MMMlMMMM 


fl43r 


A  DESERT  FOB  FEBRUARY. 


t  ^  *■  ■»  HI'  «  <    »H  W  ■  111     I 


Ffeserved  Fine>  Apples* 


Plain   Biscaits. 


tt^^m^.^^m^t^mdmm^m,i^ 


tfcachea.ip  Branrij^  - 


■  >i  -»'>»^w>*T» 


China  Oranges. 


Sugar  in  a  Tureene. 


▼■ 


Brandjr  Ctierries. 


Italian  Rusks. 


Daiusio  Cheese^ 


Plum  Cake  iced. 


l)anuoa  Cheese. 


dogsr  in  a  Toreene. 


Italian  Rusks. 


^«N 


i^WiW^ 


£iAud^  Cberxie^ 


'Vr^'-"' *      Mnwi'* 


China  Oranges. 


.  Apricots  in  Brandy. 


Miied  Biscnits. 


Preserved  Cucumbers* 


0     ■      » 


A  DESERT  FOR  MARCH. 


China  Oranges, 


Small  Bitcaiu. 


Preserved 
Straw  berriei. 


Mixed  Cakes. 


PreserTed  Ginger. 


Meringoes, 


Pranels. 


Roasted  Chef  uuts. 


Sugar  in  a  Tureen. 


French  Olives. 


SaTo^  Cake. 


French  Olivet. 


Sugar  in  a  Tureen. 


Roasted  Chcanota. 


French  PlaBi. 


MeriBguca. 


West  India 
Sweetiaeata. 


Miaed  Cakes. 


Preserved  Apricots. 


Small  Biscuits. 


Nonpareils. 


545 


A  DESERT  FOR  APRIL. 


Peaches  in  'Bi'andy. 


«  ^ 


MMM^aiaiMni*! 


ikitmi' 


nhmmmm 


III        I  ■» I 


Qoeen  Cakes. 


Gtmb  Gages. 


OraBges. 


tfm^mmm^iimmtmmtm 


^t^mmi^m^l^m^^mkm 


Damson  Cheese. 


Wafers. 


Sogar. 


Strawberries. 


Pine  Apple. 


Sttavberrics. 


I 


Ccttpnu 


Mixed  Gakas. 


rihMMHriB 


wm^ 


k*.i*> 


Apples, 


^mmm^mm     !■    ifcti  ■«  < 


PreserTed  Apricots.  ^ 


Qaeen  Cakes* 


Nectarwes  in  Brandy. 


MMMte 


••  , 


540 


A  VESBsar  mm  way. 


RfUfpberry,  Ice, 


i 


^      Qnfn  G«k>i. 


PreaerTed 


rtAXMMUHta^iV^ 


ApricoUin  Braadj. 


rf**MtM^p<MMii 


«  ■■** 


Lemuo  Cakes, 


Brandy.>r.hftrrifii 


Naples'  Biscuits. 


Grapes. 


I   lli  I    •    in  I 


Orao^s. 


Sugar  in  a  Tureene* 


firaprs. 


Oli  res* 


111  I    wf    "    ■        ■»■ 


Naplas*  BiMMJiai 


Brandy  Cberrics. 


■««M^ii«aM*i 


,      Green  Gages. 


Queeu  Cakes. 


•W^"«I^^W^ 


Mixed  Biacmts. 


-♦— *- 


Apticot  Ice. 


Jl  IDESERT  FOR  JUNE. 


-♦— H 


»       < 


WilWrlce. 


Italian  Rasks. 


Strawberies. 


Sponge  Cakes. 


Sagar. 


<>..  >■•  fc  ■!>  <'iin 


Melon. 


Crean. 


Ice  Cream. 


Mixed  Cakes. 


Strawberries. 


Biscoits. 


><H7 


A  BSSKKTVPOR  iVlX. 


Eim4fpk» 

S4i»wJbcicU»* 

1 
1 

• 

■ 

i 

1  ! 

» 
1 

\ 

t 

* 

1 

i 

j 

1 

i 

1 

\ 
j 

IU«pjb«riies. 

- 

s 

Si^ar* 

Biscuits. 

i 

• 

j 

Piunis. 

Grapes. 

White  Currants.^ 

1 

( 

Italian  Rusks. 

Cream. 

*           - 

Mixed  Cakes. 

...-'. 

i                                        > 

Cherries. 

Melon, 

Cberriti, 



\ 

XAbImr  •Anabte' 

i           Cream. 

- 

.    -                     -    ■ 

1 

1 

; 

1 

Reel  Currants. 

Plums. 

Grapes. 

1 

i 

1 

SimU^^  Cakes. 

Sujar. 

-■ 

-  i#            •          .       •             ... 

19il  SVf  UVl  I  It^Ve 

Peaches. 

04S 


A  DESERT  FOR  AUGUST. 


Bitcnits. 


Goosebeixiet. 


Nectarines. 


Sftvoj  Cake. 


Peaches 


Strawberrift. 


Miicd  eakes. 


Ice  Cream, 


Sugar. 


Melon. 


Cream. 


Grapet. 


Cream. 


Melon. 


Sugar. 


Mixed  CalEca. 


Cherries* 


Peacbea. 


SaTojr  Cakea» 


Currants. 


filfCIMtiL 


L. 


Ice  Cream. 


■i  I  ^1 


549 


A  DESEflT  FOR  J5EPTEM5ER. 


Ice*.                                            j 

Goos^l^rries. 

^ 

Filberts.  ' 

/ 

Curranti* 

: 

•  ' 

Cream. 

*•  «^ 

Mixed  Cakes. 

Sponge  Biiopiti. 

Melon. 

« 

Sreen  Gage  Plambs. 

...       .         .— .,  . 

Cherriei.   • 

Sugar. 

/ 

u 

1 
t 

• 

iSw* 

Peaclici. 

1 

^  Pine  Apple. 

AppJcij^ 

> 

^ 

•M«     •*»    *••»•• 

« 

Sugar* 

Orkans  Ploms. 

Cbfrnes. 

Melon. 

' 

Mixed  Cakes. 

Sponge  Cakes. 

Cream. 

. 

- 

Carrantf. 

Filbert!. 

Gooseberries. 

Ice* 

SOBt. 


s  ssBSEsevwyB.-  acrossiL 


r 


^  m  »■ 


Idi^. 


* 


•*5gf*. 


4-^ 


AIM    •♦•* 


Filberts. 


NcrctAtinef. 


j        Wutnuts. 


Grkp6i. 


t'     » 


I 


MixedCalef. 


.:.•.     T' 


"Saroy  Cale.' 


Mixed  Cakes. 


Gh«¥¥i««. 


«.»-■  < 


WWol*. 


Pcudtei; 


I  • 


*te 


Fitb«f&. 


BfftiII>eiTiek. 


I     *■ 


■ti    >■ 


I  I  < 


551 
A  DftSfittf  Foil  ttoVfi*f«fell. 


fRoast«A'CtiMnata. 


I 


Savoy  Cak«. 


\    Mixed  Cakes. 


Peart. 


•¥m 


■*fitiAMIhaii4haitf 


Aimondi  ind 
Muscadelis. 


I*     II'H      1'^ 


M«i}ii|^i«- 


-^'mM 


Quec;o4)rops. 


Nuts. 


( 


Pine  Apple. 


T. 


Brandj  Cherrits. 


^.1  \fi\  HI  m 


i  Brandj^  ChUri^s. 


■t^->4b 


W^Mmtflf* 


;    Lemon  props. 


"»  ■■« 


Meringocs. 


Moscadells. 


!        ■JIM ■!    U\\ I 


ApplejL 


.  .  I 


Hixed.C«ke«. 


^scoits. 


Roasted  Chesnnts. 


Preserved  Oranges. 


45» 

A  D^Ei^T  FO^<  I]^CEMBER.    ■ 


{ 


Peaches  in  Brandy* 


SpoDge  Q»kf  i. 


Gieen  Gtget, 
Id  Sjrip. 


tm^r^fum'^V^^'. 


Prunells. 


Boasted  Cbnaamt.* 


Dried  Apricots. 


Freterved 
SumwbtrtictfT 


Biscaitf. 


Nats. 


Brandy  Cherries. 


•^m^^ 


1  I    '} 


...  _•  „ 


Brandy  Cherries. 


'Wa»n(ila,i 


Biscuits, 


1  ■  t 


Pine  jdpple* 


. 


Preserved 
Strawberries 


Dried  Apricots. 


Hoastcd  Chcsnnta. 


.at^^tmtm 


French  Plams. 


in  Syr4i|>» 


Sponge  CalieSi 


TABLKS 


OP 


ARTICLES  IN  SEASON. 


THE  WINTER  MONTHS. 


DECEMBER — ^JAKUAEY-— FEBRUARr^ 


#^^s»<##ir»#* 


Crimped  cod. 

Salmon. 

Scate* 

Haddocks. 

Smcltf. 

Plaice. 

BriUs. 


JduttOD, 


Whitings. 

Flounders* 

Tnrbots  (cather  scarce). 

Soles. 

Herrings. 

SfHVtS. 

Carp. 

Buicher^s  Mcat^ 


I  Vesl. 
I  Pork. 


Tench, 
Eels. 
Lobsters. 
\  Crabs. 
Cray-fish. 
Prawns, 
Oysters. 


Hoase  "LnmK 
Doe  Venison. 


Turkic. 
Geese, 

IDncks. 

Fowls. 
Chickens, 
Gninea  Fowls. 
Pea  ditto. 
Bastards. 
Larks. 


Poultry. 

Capons. 
Hikbbits. 
Hares. 
Partridges. 
Black  Game. 
Pheasants  (until  Fe- 
bruary}. 
Q  rouse. 


Wild  Dueks, 

Tfai. 

Widgeons. 

PioTeri,  gray  and  greea. 

Ducklings*  the  latter  end 

of  January. 
Grc^n  Geese,  tli9  begin* 

wg  of  F^broAfjf* 


Forced  Mashrooms, 
■  Aspara^QS,  the 

latterend  of  Deoem- 

ber. 
I  French  BeaDs» 


ditto. 


Cacumberi  ,do. 


Greens. 
Spinach. 
Savoj  Cabbage. 
Red  ditto. 


Apples,  of  all  kinds. 
Pears,  ditto. 
Medlars. 


554 

V  Vegetables. 

White  Cabbage. 

Turnips. 

Carrots. 

OnioDs. 

Leeks. 

Shalots. 

Chevrill. 

Parsnips. 

Potatoes^ 

Celerjf. 


Fruit. 


Chesnuts. 
Walnats. 


Cordoons. 
SaUifie. 

Small  Salfad^  .. 
Endive. 
Beet  Root. 
Paraleyi 
Thyme.' 
Sorrel. 

New  Potatoes,  forced  k 
February.         ^ 


Grapes* 

Nuts. 


THE  SPRING  MONTHS, 


NARCH — APRIL — MAY. 


Salmon,     pUin 

calved. 
Soles. 
Tarbots. 
Whitings. 
Smelts. 
Crimped  Cod. 
Plain  ditto. 
Flounders. 
Plaice. 
Crimped  Scute. 


Beef 
llnttn. 


Dockhnss. 
Green  Geese. 
F^wli. 


and 


^^^■^.^^^^*-»- 


FUh. 


Haddocks. 

liarrelled  &  Salt  Cod. 

Cods'  Tongues  and 
Sounds. 

Crabs. 

Oysters. 

Lobsters. 

Cmy-iish. 

April  and  May  the 
same  as  ihe  above» 
with  the  addition  of 

Butcker^s  Meat. 


IPork,  until  May. 
Roasting  Figs. 

Poultry, 

Chtekens. 
Spring  ditto. 
Tuducs. 


Thames  Salmon. 
Ux bridge  Trout. 
Sturgeon. 
Mackerel. 
Red  Mullets. 
Pipers. 
Garnets. 
Prawns. 


I  Veal. 


Pigeons. 
Squabs,  ditto. 
Rabbits. 


ST>5 


Uslnea  Fowjl. 
[Papons. 

Poulard,  with  Ei^gs. 
RagoAts.  [i.  e.  Covkn** 
combs,  i'^ggSi  $CG.] 


4pples« 
Nats. 


preens. 
Sprouts, 
rumip  Tops. 
Forced  Asparagus, 
Hod  Cabbage. 
N«w  Potatoes. 
Mushroo!us» 
Small  Sdllad. 
£odive. 
Beet  Root. 
Sorrel^ 


Plover  Egg8« 
VViid  Ducks. 
Woodcocks, 
fiasterlings. 


Fruit. 

Chesnuti. 

Portugal    QrapcSy  for 
deserts. 

Vegetables* 

CherTiH. 

Leeks. 

Spring  Onions. 

Uaddishes. 

Celery. 

Turnips. 

Carrots. 

Onions. 

Spinach. 

Sea  Kale. 

French  Beans,  forced. 


Lfvecets,  m  April  and 
May,  (lie  '  aaiae  as 
above. 


China  Oranges. 
Seville  ditto,    for  pf^ 
serving. 


Afrii  prodocM 

Young  Turnips. 

Carrots. 

Spring  Cabbages. 

Natural  Asparagnt. 

Mat  prod  aces 

Green  GooseberriJes,  f'lr 

Tarts. 
Rhubarb,  for  ditto. 
And  all  kinds  oi  Vege- 

tajbles  for  kitchen  usp* 


THE  SUMMER  MONTHS. 


JUNE — JULY — AUGUST. 


N 


Aug  VST. 


Beef. 
Mutton. 


Greta  Geese. 

Dacklings. 

pigeons. 

K;ibbit8. 
l«everets 
Turkey  Pualts. 


Butcker*s  Meat. 

VeaU 

House  Lamb. 
Grass  ditto. 

PouUry. 

Powls. 

Chickens. 

Giblets  for  Soap,  &c. 

Capons. 

Ragoiits. 

Quails. 

B  B^ 


Sackini;  Pigs, 

'Back  VenisQu  in  July^ 


Jntr  and  AvevsT 
the  same. 

Grouse  the  latter  eqd  •£ 

August. 
Ruffs  and  Reves. 


656 


\ 


Beans. 
Tuniipt. 

Cnuliflower. 
Salladft  of  all  sorty. 


Juiri. 
Strawberriea. 
Cherries. 


Vegetables^ 

Cabbage. 
Asparagus. 
Qreens. 

AH  kinds  of  Herbs  for 
Kitcbeoase. 


Fruit* 

> 

Hot-boase  fruits. 
July  and  August  tbe 


^nerries.  '  .  „«€  as  abpTc.  with 

Cnrranu.Red&White.  I       .  ^  ^aaWu«x  nf 


Cjooseberrisflt 


I 


the  additioD  of 


GrceiiApricotsf«rTarts  i  KectariBcs 


OmoiM. 

ShaloCs* 

Spinach. 

Celery. 

Codlings  for  Tarts. 


Peadiea. 

Apricots. 

Grapes. 

Id  tbestf  Months 

serve  all  kindsofF^rwt 

for  Winter 


AUTUMN. 

SEFTEMBBR — OCTOBEB — MOVEMBS^. 


**i#>#^#** 


Beef. 
Mutton. 
Veal. 

House  Lamb. 
Pork. 


Cod. 
WlaiiiJlgs. 

Soles. 
Haddocks. 

»r)Hs. 

Scale. 
Fioundars; 


Butcher^s  Meat. 

Septsmsbh. 

Buck  Tenison  all  tbia 
Month.  ^ 

Roasthig  Pigs. 

Fish. 

I  Doreya. 

Torbot  iotae  time. 

Sfilmon. 

Herrings. 

Crahs. 

Lobsters. 

Oysters. 

Prawns, 


At  the  latter  and  of  ibii 
Month  begin  to  kill 
Bacon  Hogs. 

Doe  Venison  comes  ii 
Season. 


Cray-fisfa. 

Eels. 
Carp. 
Tench. 

NOYBHBBS. 

Pickled   SturgeoB  aai 
Braw9« 


557 


n 


Tarkies* 
Geeae* 

LargeFowIt  k  Ciipons. 

Chickens. 

Pigeons. 

Rabbits. 

Partridge*. 


Sb»timbbii. 

Peas  till  the  Middle  of 

this  Month. 
French  bestit,  ditto. 
Savoj  Cabbages. 
Red  Cabbages. 
Turnips. 
Carrots. 
Celery. 

A(i  kind  of  Herbs. 
Onions, 


Poultry* 

> 

Qaaits. 
Wild  TMku 
TmJ. 
Widgeons. 

OCTOBBS* 

Pheaaants. 
Doiterels. 

Vegttabtei* 

Lcfkt. 

Shalots. 

GarHck. 

Mushrooms  from  the 
Field,  for  Catsup, 
Pickling^  and  Kit- 
chen ase,  during  this 
Morith. 

Artichokes. 

Cardoons. 

Beet  Root. 


Plovers. 

Snipes. 

Woodcocks. 

Wood  Figeona. 

Hares. 

Grouse* 

Black  Game* 


Tomatti  known  better 
by  the  Name  of  Lovo 
Apples. 

Greens. 

Cucumbers  and  Girkins' 
for  Pickling. 

White  Cabbages  for  do. 

Cauliti«wer  for  ditto. 

Truffles. 

Morels. 


B  «  5 


^ 


INDEX. 


A  l.A  HEINE  Sauce % 

A  lent  and  Sauce    •.•••••;••..     19 

Almond  Paste  ', 517 

Alraondf,  Cheesecakes  of  . . .  ^  318 

Amiens  Pie ,,,.     96 

Anchovy  and  Batter  •  •  «^ . .  • .     26 

Toast 117 

Apple  Fritters  .,;... 128 

Apple  and  Barberry  Toutte..   1S7 
—  JrJly    530 

■  '  ■   ■  Pie,  with  Costard  • .  • . .  150 
'  ■    -     Pine, Ice ....  534 

Podding 515 

App!e9|  ^ried  •••.» 530 

^^pricot  Toarte 50.  ,358 

■  ■  (green)  Tart  .......  253 

(pipe)  Tart... 329 

•-— *— Jaas..»««» 526 

Ice 532 

A pricots,  whole   .., 527 

— ^ in  Brandy   .  • ib. 

Artichoke  Bottoms 92. 461 

_- alltalienn«   84 

Asparaguf 37 

• »— Soup    .,...: 265 

■    '    Soup^lear 261 

Aspick  of  Brawn 176 

*■  Cray-fish  in 435 

■  ■  Fillets  of  Fowl  in  ....  434 

Allets  of  O^'sters 188 

.  Palates *^66 

B. 

Bacon  and  Ham,  to  cure   • .  •  •  456 

■  Chine,  roasted 433 

BakedPike S31 


Barberry  Ice &jS 

■■  Water  Icti •  •••  ib, 

Jelly    526 

Barberries ••••  525 

Basket  of  Pastry 60 

Bath  Bans    . . .  r • .  •  •  5fS 

BeefwCoIlops    127 

—  Kidney   «16 

Olives 75 

— —  Olives  and  scooped  Pota- 
toes   ...  121 

Palates,  as  Cutlets ....  81,  S13 

Palates,  rolkd   •  •     S5 

Ribs  of •  •*•     58 

—  Fillet  ©f,  larded,  &c. ....     th. 

--i—  Steak  Pie    .4^7 

Steak  Pie,  raised    102 

Steak  Pie,  in  a  Disk  .    .  .  S32 

> — ~  Steak  Pudding •••  409 

Steaks ••••  153 

Steaks  and  Onions 469 

BeetUoot    155 

HiLL»  OF  Fare •  27,  tl  tfq. 

Black  Currant  Jeliy    529 

Blade  Boueof  Pork  and  mushed 

Potatoes 590 

Bianc  Mange  , • . .  •  106 

Blanquet  of    Fowl    and   Cu- 
cumber   308 

^ Pea   Fowl,  Vole- 

vent  of  a •  181 

!-— Poulard  and  Mush- 
rooms         89 

— f —Veal 114 

Boeul  <^ie  Chasse 445 

Boiled  Ducks  and  Onion  Sauce  46^ 


550 


Boiled  Fowl,  Cellerjr  andO^iter 
Sauce    •  •. 47 

■  Tripe  and  Onions    ....  47S 
Bottled  Currants,  while  green     532 

■  Damson  . .  w   .......      if*. 

■    '■     Gooseberries  •  • . .v . •      t^. 

Boots    Sangeaux    with  Sauce 

Hacbis 198 

Braise,  white • IS 

■  brown ib. 

pdrj 13 

Brawn r.* 46 

~- Aspickof*... ••  176 

Bread  Pudding 512 

Breast  of  Fowl  larded,  and  an 

'  Bmince     143 

'  Fowl    larded.  Legs 

forced,  and  Asparagus  Peas  .244 

■  Lamb  grilled •     81 

■  Lamb   braised,   and 
Spinach    198 

■  Mutton  broiled  ^ . . .  470 

■  Veal  roasted 82 

>-  Veal  a  ia  Flamond       65 
: VeaUl'Italienne..   1«7 

■  ■    •  ^1.       Veal  ragouted  whole    33 

■  ■              Veal    and    Rarigot 
Sauce   '.^ 95 

?riH 439 

Brisket  ol  BeeC  stewed,  and 

Spanish  Onions   .•     44 

;  •Broiled  Fowl  and  Mushrooms     183 

■  Salmon  and  Capers   . .   178 

Broth,  Chicken 14 

■■      "  ~  plain  Mutton ••     15 

Brown  Braise .' It 

Bread  Ice 5S4 

■  ^     ■  Cellery  Saace 34 

Sauce 465 

Babble  and'Sqneak    469 

•      C. 

CkVts,  Savo^  . », 516 

■  Gingerbread,  or  Nuts  51 8 
. Rich%ro 519 

PoundUake 520 

■  Icing  for ib. 

Queen 521 

Plain i6. 


Page 

Cakes,  Sponge  Biscuits 521 

—  Lemon     ....  • 5^9 

— ^  Shrewsbury    tfr. 

Small  Tea 523 

Calf^s  Head  collared,  in  imita- 
tion of  Brawn 448 

Calvesi'Ears. 98 

— — — •  Feet  and  Spanish  Sauce     S4r 

—  Feet  and  Asparagus  Peas  19% 
Feetau  Gratin,  and  Spa- 
nish Sauce    206 

— —  Head  hashe4.an.d  grUled   SO 

Liver  and  Bacon   ....  157 

Capilutade    18^ 

.  of  Ducklings    • . .  •  196 

.  of  Partridge     ....  154 

^.of  Rabbit 193 

Capon   1^4 

Cararaell  Sugar    516 

Cardoons 163 

Carp,  baked     SlS 

Carrot  Sauce   f««.>.^«>     1^ 

Soup 166 

Casserole  au  Kis,  with  Giblets     135 

Cauliflower 52.  460 

— —  a  la  Flamend   ....  135 

Cederata  Cream • .     7^ 

Ccilery,  jtewed   160 

Chantilly  Basket 103 

' of  Wafers..   3:i8 

Cake   116 

Charlotte 12$ 

Chartreuse 103 

— — —  of  Roots  and  Sau- 
sages, and  Ragout  Meli6  . .   237 
Cheesecakes  of  Alm9nds    ....  318 
■  Cheesecurd  and 

Almonds   >...     71 

Cherries  in  Brandy   528 

Chervil  Sauce    20 

Chicken  Panade 14 

'  and  Tarragon   • 45 

Chickens  a  la  Reine   .  •  •  • .  ^ . .     8a( 

• .(two),  one  larded  • .   161 

China  Oraiige  Jelly      i07 

Chine  of  Lamb  and  Cucumber 

Sauce   77 

■  Lamb  larded ,and  Cher» 
▼il  Sauce  ..••••  ^••«^»...  187 

r 


1S60 


CShine  erf  Fori  roasted  ,..•••'  St 

CiT«t  of  Fawn t8b 

■—     ■  ■  ■  Haie 62 

Cocks -combt,  ngont  of. 188 

Cod's  Head..... 437 

CodltngTarts  ••• , SSI 

*— —  Toorte.^..... 338 

Coffee  Cream,  in  Caps 79 

*  ■  ■  In  Almond  Cops  129 

Cold  Partridge  Pie 449 

Cold  Pieces ,,  329 

CollaredBeef 445 

■  -  Eei    435 

■  -  Pig'sHead   44f 

CoI^ops,  white,  and  Cacumbcrs    48 

• ofTiirtle    333 

Common  Paste    .•.••.. 509 

Comp6te  of  Pears •    V9 

■  Golden  Pippins . .     ib. 
— — — —  Pigeons  and  Truffles  151 

CONPXCTIONART 5l6 

CGT!^ .'... 10 

Cow's  Heel  stewed  ....••....  475 

Crab,  dresf>  hot  or  cold 118 

'Cranberry  Toorte    S38 

Cray-fish  an  Oratin... 16t 

•     ■   in  Aspic 435 

-Sottp   ••••  168 

Pudding  ...i 186 

Crimped  Cod  in  Slices    438 

■I  —  and  Italian  Sauce  433 

Crokets 91 

Cucumber,  forced  .v Sl2 

• — 7.- Sauce 23 

Curd  Podding;i,  small,  baked      514 
Currant  Pudding*********** •    tb* 

■.Tart $87 

.. Tourte    * 98 

Custard  Podding 513 

Cutlets  of  Sahnon  and  Caper 

Sauce    ^-•*  121 

* — —  Sweetbreads  and  Pi* 

quau4  Sauce.  .*•*  * *  171 

., : — Turtle, larded  *...  336 

Damsoo  Cheese *  531 

>.        '—Tourte   ••**••% 98 

DamsMlt^  Piesyflie**  •  ..*«••  531 


Baridfes   99 

Daubed  Fowls,  and  Saoce  a  fm 

Italienne ..'.••••  SST 

DiaEKTS  *. •  A41 

Devonshire  ^qnob  Pi» 496 

Dinner  for  1^  (Jan.)  oneConrae, 

and  Removes •  480 

■■   ■  16  (Jan.)    . .ditto. .   481 

40  (Feb.) 

■      ■  ■■    '  18  (June) 

12  (Juljr) 

8  (July) 


•  •  ditto.. 
.  •  ditto.  • 
• .  dittow  • 
.  •  ditto.  • 


489 

491 
493 
494 

495 
496 
498 
609 
504 
i5. 
505 
509 
506 
20  (Feb.)  two  Courses 489 


16  (July)   ..ditto.* 

13  (Aog.)  .. ditto. • 
SO  (Sept.)  ..ditto.. 

14  (Nov.)  ^.. ditto*. 
10 (Nov.)  .. ditto* • 

8  (Dec.)  ..ditto*. 
10  (Dcc.^  ..ditto*. 
12  (Dec.)  ..ditto.. 
20  (Dec.)  . .  ditto* . 


10  (Mar.)  ..ditto..   484 

8  (Mar.)  ..ditto*.  485 

' 14  (April)  ..ditto..   486 

'     10  (April)  . .  ditto.  •   487 
10  (May)   ..ditto..  489 

8  (May)  ..ditto..   484 

■  6  (May)  ..ditto..    Ift. 
12'(Jone)  ..ditto..  490 

8  (June)  ..ditto..   499 

■  10  (Aug.)  ..ditto*.  496 

— —    8 (Aug.)  ..ditto..  497 

8  (Sept.)  ..ditto,.  500 

4  (Oct.)    ..ditto.,  501 

10  (Nov.)  ..ditto..   509 

■  8  (September)  three 
Courses    • 499 

Drest  Crab,  ttot  or  cold 118 

. — -  Lobster,  hot  or  cold  . . « .  118 

Dried  Apples 530 

'   ■  Salmon 444 

Whitings 444 

Dry  Braise  ....* •*     19 

Duck  a  la  Daabe,  litded  , . . .  I6f 


Dud^s  &  la  Daobe 44 

.  farced  and  braised  ....     64 

Dacklings    189 

Dun  Birds    71 

v4 


961 


Page 

PutcbSallad    •• 231 

'  ■"     ■  fiance    •••*«•••••••••     t6 

£. 
Self  tpiiclicooked  ..••.•••••  3^5 

£Bg  Balls 17 

Eggs,  fried SOS 

*— alaPouiet S25 

— -*41aTrip 72 

£lderBob  629 

EndiTC 458 

fiKalopedOytters  •••••.•••    60 

P. 
Family  Plum  Padding  •••••.  510 

Jkrce 16»65 

Pawn*  roasted  whole,  and  Che* 
vreuilSauce..*..  •••••••••  S84 

Fillet  of  Beef,  larded.  Ice. ...    58 

■  ■  I  Veal  ^ 164 


Pork*  lardedt  and  Bo- 


berSaace    •••••••«••••••    67 

VtfaUlaBethemeU..  IM 


Fowl  a  la  Danbe  lardet)  #«•••• 

■  emanenced 

and  ganiisbed  with  Aspio  •. 
— ^  &  la  Ducfaeste«  ••••••••• 

— *-  and  Moshrooms  broiled*  • 
Fowls,  boiled,  and  Beshemell 
and  Oyster  Sauce 


French  Beans.  •••.••••••  .39. 

Fricandeaa  and  Sorrel  Sance.  • 
— — ^  of  Fowl  and  Endive 
——— Turtle    ........ 

Fricanee  of  Chicken  •«••.... 

Rabbit 

Rabbit,  with  Mush* 


SS8 

174 
4S 

18S 
54 
56 

460 
55 
66 

356 
77 

lit 


cponii  • S4t 


Saoce 
Fried  £ggs  • 
Fried  Rabbit 


Tripe,  and  Onion 


474 
203 
476 


O. 


fillets  of  Fowl^  larded,  and  To-         | 
mataSanoe 101 

»■   ■       '■  Fowl  larded,  and  an 
Emince ..••••••••••  124 

i  ■  Fowl,  in  Aspic 434 


-  Hare  larded,   and  a 


Por^  of  the  saow 187 

■      IMackcrel 44S 

■I -  Mutton  and  Cncnmber    89 

Fillet  ef  Mutton,  and  Harricot 

Beans 56 

Filleto  of  Rabbit 103 

*—-  S«)le  &  ritaiienne ....  83 
■■  Torbot,  with  Sauce  i 

ritali«nne    121 

Whiting    116 

FfiB 437 

' Pi«,inaDbh.« 189 

Flappers. 357 

Flemish  Sauce  ••• 21 

*  Soup  ••• 153 

Flounden    ,••••••  •.••••.^,  440 

forced  Meat,  hot 16 

cold    17 

Fowl  a  la  Beshemell 145 

«•— >alaPattbe «»    29 


Galentme.*, 459 

Garden  Beans .. .' 460 

Oateau  Millefieur • .  •  •    85 

General  Stock   ••    10 

GibletSoup  251,468 

— — — —  alaTortne 35 

Gingerbread 518 

Glase,  for  larding 458 

Goose    4^ 

andTnrkeyPie    446 

Gooseberry  Cream    271 

Pie   178 

' Pudding    514 

-  Tarts    60.114 

Gravies    for    Soufb    ^kd 

Sauces    44^4 

Gravjr  Soup. 465 

Green  Apricot  Tart 253 

■  Gage    Plums,    &c.    in 

Brandy    «....•••.••  528 

-Goose.. •••...• 176 

PeaSoup  ..•..••.•••  275 

Greens * 460 

Grenade   •••.•••...••  llS 

Grenadines  of  Dock •  358 

andEudiv 124 

of  Veal 102 

Ground  Rice  Padding  ••».'••  511 


S6St 


Pftgc 

Grorie  ..«.•.••«...,•..•...  137 

— —  braised,  and  Cabbsge    3f  6 
■  ■  foaited    «•••« ._     ib. 


It. 


Ktle  (Sea) 


91 


Guioea  Fowl«  lavded  •...•...  195 
GomPa^te 516 

H. 

Haddocks.  • 438 

Ham 329 

■  ■  ■     braised    ,.  46 

v-*"— Cake,  garnished 436 

■  and  poached  Eggs 125 

Pie  ...'.. 96 

——Potted 36 

——and Toast 107 

Bare..... 52 

»        phoned  and  larded 368 

—  .Cake 433 

——Civet  of...... fa 

potted 40 

Soap 438 

^arricot  Beans    ...;.••.,•••  458 
»■  -ofBeef ;••...  167 

■  ■   '    "   '. '■  Mutton  .......55.475' 

Ii«shed    Beef  and     Woiled 

Bones. . . : , .  .209.  470 

■'"'■        Lamb,  and  Blade  Bone 

broiled •......•.•  194 

Hutton,  and    broiled 


L. 


Blade  Bone... .....;.'.. ..^  470 

Tt^nisoii  .' •.  301 


Hasty  Mutton  .  • 467 

Haunch  of  Doe  Venison  ..«••.     gS 

■  Lamb,  larded   ....     42 

■  Mutton 205 

Hodge  Podge '.  •  127 

HotPaste 509 

I. 

Iceing 520 

^'ny... 69 

.JcHyStock  15 

Irish.Slew    ...^ 468 

Italiaii  Rusk^...». 523 

■  Sallads .  337 

■*"         Soup 54 

John  Dorey  •••..•«.•«.  .■.    .  ■  438 
Judged  Hjire  <.»••..<•# 391 


LambCutlets  grazed,  and  Saace 

alaReine    ....«.•....•..   911 
— — -^  larded*   and  the 

Breast  rolied —  •  ,  .  •    133 

■     and  Sptnacb*..,    9€9 

■  ■  Toroarfa  Saace  131 

^—  Leg- of,  and  Cuc«mber»       59 

'—•' —  Leg  of,  boiled.  Loin  fried      63 

Ribs  of 114 

Shoulder  of  • 52,  182 

Sfaoalder  of,   and  Sorrel 

Sance  • 145 

Lamb's  Feet,  with   Asparagus 

Peas, ^.^ 9* 

'   '      '  "  Head  4  la  Rayal    ....  296 

■  ■   ■  ■  Heart  audSweetbreMb  lf4 

Lark 39 

Leg  of  .Lamb,  aad  Cacumbert    59 

■  '  ■    ■    Lamb  boiled,  Lois  fried, 
and  Spinach. , ...  ^^. 63, 105 

Lamb  forced,  and  gar- 


nished ..'••.• 435 

—^T Mutton  boiled,  andTor- 

Jaipa • 471 

Pork  a  la  Boisseaa.  •  •  •     88 

—  Pork  boiled,  and  Greeoa  144 
■■         Pork  boiled,  and  Peaa 

Padding 47f 

Pork  roasted  .  • tft. 


Legs  of  Fowl  au  Gratin ]  39 

Lemonade    ..•••. 535 

Leveret '. S9S 

larded t98 

Lirers,  fat,  in  Cases    51 

.■.  of  Poultry  a  la  Broch     131 

Lobster......... 71 

"'■       1   au  Gratin  .••.•...•.     92 

— — r  Caka 434 

— —  drest, hot or.cold  ....   118 
—  P&tes    . .*.... •••137.248 

«  Sapce. atS 

Loin,  of  .Lamb    braised,    and      % 

stewed  Cellery    , . , .     34 

■■     ■■  ■  Veal 90 

.     J     Ve^l  a  Ja  Besbcmeii . .     45 


563 


Maccaroni o9 

Pie 1»4 

Soup * 171 

Macaroons  . .  ..*•.......•••  bU4i 

Mackerel  a  la  Man  re  D'Ho- 

Ul   257,  443 

Sauce •  •  •     86 

■  split  and  broiled.   .  •     ib, 

boiled 439 

MamteooD  Cutlets  . .  / 104 

Marrow  Boneii 477 

■     ■  ■  Pudding 510 

Matclot  of  Carp  and  Eels. . . .  242 

of  Eels 66 

..QfKabbils    276 

■  of  Teuch 116 

Meagre  Stock  ••• 16 

Meringoes    •-« 518 

Mince  Pies 38 

minced  and  broiled  Turkcj  •  •   153 

MockXurtle 57 

Moreaa  i  la  Crenie  .  • •     143 

MorcU 247 

Muiliroom  Fritters ..........  9^3 

Hu&liroonas  broiled •  •  •  •  107 

-»~  in  Boxes 159 

— — —  stcwcl 51 

Mutton  and  Broth  with  Roots  150 

China  of. 60 

Chops 477 

■■  ■        Cutlets    larded,     and 

Husbrouros 244 

Cutlets  plain   broiled. 


and Tojuata  Sauce  ••••  .•••  159 
Fdlet  oC>  and  Uarricot 


Beans • 56 

' "          Harricot  of 55 

■  ■■      Leg  of 160 

n Pie  .:..* 456.476 

—— bud  Potato*:  Pie 74 

'    '       Pies,  small  raised   ....  54 

-1 — -Tea 14 

•  n" 

Neal*^  Foot  fried . . .  •• 474 

-*-»-~.Toiigae  and  B»rberrie$  .  81 


Page 

Neat's  Tongue  in  Cotlets,  and 

stewed  Greens 251 

Neck  of  Lamb  a  la'Chevaux  de 

Frixe 88 

of  Mutton  a  la  Jardinier  HOB 

— — — — —   boiled,    and 

Turnips •  • .     90 

'  '    I       I  roasted  ....  155 

'  larded,  and 

Carrot  Peas 64 

- — '  with  a  Pur^e 


of  Potatoes 31 

-— -  of  Pork  roasted  ...  .55.  47t 

—  of  Veal 77 

braised,  &Saace 


alaReine 89 

.  roasted    158 

a  la  Beshemel    67 


of  Venison  ...•••..  75i  299 
-  stewed,  and 


Harrlcot  Sauce..  •••.•••••■<  48 

Nectarine  Ice «. 534 

Nectarines  in  Brandy.  ••.••••  528. 

New  Potatoes  *..• •••••  21^ 


Omelet........ 71 

Omelets,  small 227 

Onion  Sauce 23 

Soup 467 

Onions,  pickled    ..••  537 

Orange  Ice  .....•....•••.*.  534 

Souffle*... 135. 

Tonrte 52 

Oranges  preserved  whole  ....  529 

Orgeat    535. 

Ox  Cheek  aud  Harricot  Sauco  67 . 

—  Rumps • 33, 

Tureen  of 245 

OjfSter  Sauce • 25 

Ousters,  Atletsof 188 

I  ■          escaioped •  •  60 

— —— fried  in  Batter 143, 

— —  pickled •  •  85. 

'            stewed   177^ 

•-: Petit  Pai^s  of Ill 

i-Voleveutof X99.. 


M4 


p 

l^mcftWt ••...;4.  165 

Parmipt  tnd  Carrots 459 

Paste,  Puff . . . .  ^ 507»d08 

——-Tart i*. 

'  Common •  •  509 

■  "'  ■•  Hot  ••••«•••••••••»•    ib, 

Pa(6  doodereaa 74 

Ptetridgo, Capitotade of  ••••  154 
■*■■  ■■  Pie,  hot 66 

■  Soup  ♦  * *.  147 

Partrtdget ...96.  450 

*"-^   ■'    ■■  and  Cabbage 59 

■  '    '       I  i  la  Besheroel  .  •  •  •  380 

■  ■■  a  la  Perigord    •  •  •  •  413 

Pastbt    507 

Plite  a  la  Francois 78 

Peachlce 534 

Peaches  in  Brandy 5^8 

Peas 269 

Peas  plain  boiled 460 

PeaSoQp  •«•••• 139 

«%  and  pickled  Pork  ..  466 

Perch  plain  boiled  .••.* 231 

Petit  Pftt^B  of  Mutton   125 

■  of    Chicken     and 
Ham-.... ; 111.  409 

■  -of  Oysters Itl 

.                  o/  Sweetbread    .  •  ih* 

Pen  d'Aiiioors •• 224 

Pheasants ^..52.  450 

Piccalilli 538 

Pickled  Oysters  ...... .^ 85 

Sehnon   309 

■  Gerkins 536 

«^          Walnuts tfr. 

-^ Onions 537 

-——— Red  Cabbage....  <...  538 

■  French  Beans    t6. 

i-  ■'   ■ '  Mushrooms,  white. .  • .  539 

■    ■»  brown  . . .  540 

PiCKLCS •••• 536 

Pic,  Minca *..    3d 

— r~  hot  Woodcock    65 

I  I  '  Partridge    66 

--«-  Matton  and  Potatoe  ....     74 

— —  Gooderean t^. 

•-—  Ham..... 96 

•—-^Amiens    • ••    i&. 


Fie,  raised  Beef-steak lOS 

^-««  raised,,  with  Pigeons  *  • . .  110 

— ~  Maccaroni  r 194 

•— ^  Pigeon,  in  a  Dish 155 

-'—  Veal,  in  a  Dish  •  •  •  .155.  477 
^>-  Apple,  with  Costard  ••..  159 

Lamb,  in  a  Dish 159 

— •  Tmffle.hot 175 

VealKidney ih. 

-— <-  Gooseberry .•••   ••••...  178 

— ~  Fish,  inaDish 189 

— — «  Raised,  with  a  Tongae  •  •  21S 

Beef  Steak,  in  a  Dish  292.477 

—1*  Rhubarb 246 

•— —  Raised,  with  Giblets  •  •  •  •  265 
— .-  saiail  Raised,  with  Pigeons  325 

— *•  Goose  and  Turkey 446 

--^  cold  Partridge   « 449 

•—  Derottshire  Squab 4S6 

— •  Mutton  and  Potatoe  456.  476 
— -  hot  Paste  for  Raised  ••••  509 
— —  comtnon  Paste  for  Family    i5. 

Pigeon  Pie  in  a  Dish .^-  155 

Pigeons  roasted * ttS 

■  larded,   glascd»    and 

Mushrooms • •  108 

'  larded,  and  a  Rftjgodt 

of  Cocli*s  Combs 259 

■  ■ >Tirobailof 176 

■  ■     ■    >  ^  la  Crattpaodine»  and 
Piquant  Sauce • 179 

Pig'sChopper SlO 

Feet  and  Rars 74 

Headroastcd 473 

Pine  Apple  Ice    534 

Pipers 442 

Piquant  Sauce...  •.••••.••..     18- 

Piths'auGraUn    ••.••     70 

Plain  Buns 523 

Cake 521 

Plorers.......**..«i 98 

Eggs   215 

Plum  Cake,  rich 5l9 

-* -—  Pudding,  best  sort  of  . .  509 

Family 510 

Poached  £ggs  ic  Piquant  Sauce  IM 

■  and  Toast  ....  2^ 
Foi?rade Sauce  ..••.•....••  18 
Pork  Catleti  and  Rtber  Saace  169 


fi6o 


Page 

f^orlc  Chops 473 

-    ■  and  mashed  Potatoei  133 

l*otatoe  Pudding    • . . .  478 

Potatoes • 459 

PotUd  Ham .••     36 

^ Hare , 40 

Poulard  with  Eggs 206 

PouodCake 520 

Preparation  for  Wax  Baskets 

&c. .^ 517 

Preserved  OrangeS|  whole.. •*  529 

Puddings,  Ratafie 140 

best  sort  of  Plum  ..  509 

l^amily  Plum 510 

Marrow  •.,•••...•     ib, 
whole  Rice   ••••..     ib. 

ground  Rice 511 

VerBicelli ib. 

Tapioca...., 512 

Bread»«....... •••     i&« 

Sago    »*. 

Craj.fifh   186 

Sbtoj 513 

Custard ib, 

small  Cord 514 

Suet    «     t^. 

Apple •  515 

Gooseberry  &  Car- 

ih. 

Yorkshire  •••.,<••     ib, 

PttffPaate    JnOT,  50% 

P^r^e  of  Potatoes  .,.-• 459 

of  Root*   , S83 


- 

rant 

Fsge 

Raised  Pie  with  Giblets  ......  S^ 

.  with  Pigeons    •  • .  •  110 

■    with  a  Toague  •  • .  •  212 

Raspberry  Cream   .••..     70 

.■  Ice.. (•.••...»•••  533 

•-  Water  Ice 5$$ 

■»'  Jam  ............  5S4 

Jelly 529 

Ratafie  Pudding 140 

Ratafies    «•■•«. «t(...« .-»< . .  524 
Ravigotflbuce...  •••••••«...     21 

Red  Currant  Jelly  .......  A .  528 

Herring? ;....,..  444 

w-  Mullet, * ^9 

Rlienish Cire^m 91 

Rhubarb  Pie 246 

Tart>» •••••  253 

Ribsof  B«ef « 5S 

roIM    ........  333 

^ Lamb ,  114.221 

RiceFritter* U7 

". —  Soufl9e  •,«•,,..•...«••  190 

Soup..... 131 

-  with  » Chicken...  t  163 

RichPlumCake ...•  519 

Ridgei  of  Fowls,  larded 366 

Rim^lade  of  Smelts.  •«.••«...  207 

Ripe  Aprico.t  Tart «...  329 

Ripol« ...     87 

^■1  ■  ■'»■  fried  HI  Pa«te 263 

Rober  S^nce  • .  • 24 

Roulard  of  JHuUoi}  •••...«••«     69 
.     ■  ".I  ro«ffted»aad 

French  Beaos fif$ 

.  .1   ■  -■■*'»*  Pork,  roasted f  •  •  •     89 


Qoftils  ..... 
Queen  Qakes 
— ~  Drops 
Quenels  of  Fowl 


..*^.....ff..* 


327 
521 

ib. 
256 


Savce 


••  Sdmoot  with  Caper 


83 


-  Ve^lt  «nd  ^oab- 


R. 


Il^bbir,  Fric^siee  of    .,...«•  Ill 

Rabbit*. 40 

■i^    I        4  la  Portugaeae ..«.,.  82 

■■     .        Currie  of    •..,  49 

■L    .1        and  Qnioi)s    106 

l^oltMell^ ^.  38 

'  of  QoqI*8  Comhs   • . « #  188 

- 9f  Svre«tbr(94  •»•»«»  266 


»   I' 


roomv • • 47 

Round  of  Beef  and  (xreeoa. .  233 

Royal  SftQce  ••• 20 

Ruffs  aud  Reeves  ,,,, 331 

Rump  of  Beef  a  h  Paabe.  an4 

Cabbfige  «, 76 

■ a  ia  Mantua.  •  •  102 


Vet^I  a  ia  Paube,  & 


Sorrel  Sauct:     ...•• «•  .11^ 

Sago  Pudding   51? 

I$«lmie  of  Wild  Pucl^a. « $9 


566 


SalmFe  of  Woa^cocks 197 

Salmon 437 

■  smoked   60 

■  and  Caper*,  brpiled  . .   178 

Salsifie ^ 84 

fried 103 

SattChiiie 67 

{^ance  Piquant. 18 

—  Poirrade ih. 

.  Carrot .  * .  • ^  ib. 

■  »  Hachig«. . »«««■»»•».»»     ib. 

—  Aiiemande  . ." 19 

^  Italian,  white ib. 

'    !■■■».-  brown  ••....••     ib. 
Shalot SO 

■  »  Sorrel «•••     ib, 

— — <>  C4iervil « ib. 

■  Royal  .•....• ib. 

Flemish -  21 

■  Ravigott   . .  .^ •     ib. 

'  Tomato ib, 

Onion; 2!^.  469 

..  Spanish ib, 

alaReinc 23 

■  Cucumher. .  • .  • •     ib, 

•  brown  Celery 24 

■  Rofaer- '.•     ib. 

'■  Harricot  Roots ib. 

•< -<  -■■  brown    ■  •  •     ••'•••••••   465 

■  Tonrnay  ahd  Besheroell     11 

■  .    ■■  for  bake«}  Mflckerel ....     26 

II  for     crifpped     Salmon, 

baked  or  broiled *•     96 

Sausages 452 

■  «and  red  Cabbage,  stewed  t67 
Savoy  Cakes 60.  516 

■  small ...  ..••••.  411 
■■  Pudding   513 

Scorch  Colk>ps 90 

. of  Turtle 333 

SeaKail r.     91. 

SeedBons 523 

SemellsofCarp 81 

m  and  Piquant  Sauce. . .  •  101 

.>  of  Farce,  and  Piquant 

Sauce 17$ 

Scrpent'of  Mutton. 368 

Shalot  Sauce 20 

8beep*s  Rumps  &  Kidnies 77 


SheepS  Rumps  &  Kidntes  with 

Rice 319 

Shoulder  of  Lamb»  and   Sorrel 

Sauco   ..•• 145 

'■ '  forced  and 

larded 6$ 

— — —  Mutton  roast«d,  & 

small  Onions    ..•• 471 

Shrewsbury  Cakes  •••••••....  522 

Shrimp  Sauce  ..i..... f^ 

Sirloin  of  Beef.  ..^ 34 

Scato  boiled 439 

fried 44Q 

Slices  of  Cod  broiled  • ib. 

Small  Codlings 438.440 

Collars 448 

Haddock ,  440 

— — —  Omelets 2f7 

— — -  raised  Pie  with  Pigeons.  323 

— — '  Tea  Cakes 523 

Smells 439 

Smoked  Salmon 60 

S'.tles  boiled : .  438 

«- —  filleted  and  fried 439 

Sorrel  Sauce... % SO 

Souffle  of  Apples  and  Rice. . . .   140 

——Ginger 139 

Soup  a  la  Flamond    « 42 

— — Vermiceili,wiiite  or  brown     49 

Italian 54 

and  Bouillie. 69.  467 

~~""^  CMUie. ...........  _  •..     79 

Ore  ssey 87 

Julian 98.  180 

Rice 131 

Pea 139.466 

Partridge 147 

Flemish  .-. 153 

Carrot. 166 

•^ Turnip 167 

Cray-fish 168 

— --  Maccaroni 171 

Giblet S51.  466 

• Asparagus 265 

»  ■  «» clear 261 

Green  Pea ,  275 

--^Hare 433 

Gravy 465 

*— —  OnioO 467 


567 


%    Page 
Soup  a  la  Reine ^7 

Soups  AKD  Savcks 9 

Sour  Crout  .....,.., 461 

Soutie  of  Liver  of  Turtle  ....  :i36 

Carp    435 

■  Hare 94 

■  ■       MuttoR  and  Cucuni« 

bers- ».••••.. 78 

■  Pheasant 97 

■  Sweetbread    ib. 

•   "  Salmon  and  Capers  965 

■  Sole 91 

— —  Veal  and  Gucambers  110 

■  '  Whitings    94 

Spanish  Fritters   138 

■  Sauce 22 

Spinach  and  Eggs   85 

•■               in  Boxes 148 

Spring  Chickens S50 

Spring  of  Pork,  rolled    472 

Sponge  Biscuits,  or  Cakes  •  • .  •  5^1 

Si  e  wed  Bee r  Steaks    218 

■  Cellery    160 

'  Ousters   177 

— —  Partridges  and  Traffics     76 

Stock-Pot 9 

Strawberry  Ice    533 

— —  Water  Ice  • ih. 

Sturgeon,  baked 441 

broiled    441 

'  roasted    ...   ...*.,  440 

plain,  boiled   ......   441 

Sacking  Pig 102 

—  —  collared    448 

Suet  Dumplings  ••,....    ....  514 

—  Podding 514 

Supper  Dishes 445 

Supper  for  Five  Hundred....  340 
Sweetbread,  Petit  Pat^s  of. . . .  Ill 
Sweetbreadr,  larded    •  124 

■  larded,    and    an 

Emince.. 133 

—  roasted 225 

•— -  a  la  Reine,  and 

garnished 291 

■  &  Asparagus  Pea»  186 

T. 
Tapioca  Podding. •••••••••••  512 


Page 
Tart  Paste    •» •• 608 

Tartlets 84 

Tea,  Motion 14 

Beef      t*. 

Teal 39 

Tenderones  of  Lamb  a  laPoulef     62 

■  Veal 43 

VcalalaPouIet    98 

■  Veal  and  stewed 

Peas 27d 

Timball     of     Maccarbui    and 

Chickens 101 

'       of  Pigeons -176 

Tomata  Sauce ..,.     ^1 

ToBgue,  glased 57 

Tons;ue  and  Tornipt   97 

Trifle ., 37 

Tripe,  fried  in  Batter 474 

—- ofTurtIe,andOnionSauce  336 

Truffle  Pie,  hot    i7o 

Truffles .  .^. 154 

Tarbot •.•.....,,.  437 

— —  Volevent  of    137 

Turkey,  larded    325 

Poults,  two,  one  larded  249 

— — -  and  Truffles    32 

— -—  boiled,  and  Oyster  Sauce  94 
^  with  Chesnuts  and  Sau- 
sages      75 

minced,  and  broiled  . .    153 

Tureen  of   Calves'  Feet    and 

Asparagus  Peas 192 

— —•  Lamb*8  Tails 173 

'  Oi  Rumps    245 

— — —  Mutton  and  Broth    468 

Turnip  Soup 157 

Turtle   452 

roasted    ss3 

'  braised  white,  to  look 

like  Chicken ij^ 

while  Collops  of 333 

Scorch  Collops  of  ... .     ifr. 

■  Soutie  of,  Lirer  of,  and 

Onion  Sauce    ^q 

■  Tripe  of,  &  Onion  Sauce    ib» 

V. 
Veal,  Breast  of,  i  la  Flamond       6S 
Cake 45g 


908 


Veal  Catlets  ,..•.,.,•   ....  47j» 

«  wilk  Bread  Crumbf  476 

mm      ^d  Ham  Cutlets 195 

—  Kidney  Pi^ ^  175 

■^ — .Fillet  of 164 

— >—  Fillet  ofj  i  la  Flamond.  •     54 

■  ■       Neck  oft  roaated •  158 

•— — '  Fie«  ia  a  Dish   155 

Pie «. 477 

Vbostablxs # 458 

Vegetable  Padding 478 

VenisQoFry $94 

■  ■ .         Steaks«  plain,  broiled     345 
Vermicelli  Soiip*  white  or  brown  49 

Pudding f..  511 

Voleveot,    with  Chicks  and 
Sweetbread....  ••• ••  t%9 

..  QfEci f  x$r 


Volereut  of  Fish    ..^t ?l 

Qysttn 191 

■ ■      Titfbot  ..IS 

W. 

Waferf  •• 58 

WhiteBraise    i 

— Collops  of  Turtle. S3 

— -~  CoUops  and  Coconbert     4 

Whitings    • 438.43 

Whitings,  broiled     44 

Whole  Rice  Podding 51 

WtldDucks i 

Woodcock  Pie,  hot •  •  •    < 

Woodcocks  a  U  Tartiur  ..••••  11 


Y. 

Yorksbiro  ppdding 


r 


i 


II  ■      iT I  .-•  Ill  II  '   tfi  ■  '  II  ■  i[    i-ra-i  I    ■  r    '    •       " 

Frimed  by  Joyce  Cold,  ie9»  Shoe-lane^  FlQeU•Oce^  LoiMioak 


It 


4t 


.V 


