American  Indian  Corn 

150  Ways 
To  Prepare  and  Cook  It 

Charles  J.  Murphy 


Class  ___T.iJiC_i__ 

Ronlr  .  M  ^^  A4  g 

&EPgM]f?_ 


COPyRIGHT  DEPOSm 


American 

Indian   Corn 

(Maize) 

A  Cheap,  Wholesome,  and  Nutritious  Food 
150  Ways  to  Prepare  and  Cook  It 


By 

Charles  J.  Murphy 

Formerly  Commissioner  for  the  State  of  Nebraska 


Revised  and  Edited  with  the  Addition  of  Many  New  Recipes 
and  a  Foreword  by 

Jeannette  Young  Norton 

Author  of  "Mrs.  Norton's  Cook-Book,"  etc. 


G.  P,  Putnam's  Sons 

New  York  and  London 

Zbc   1f:n(cfterbocfter    ipresa 

1917 


^■^ 


^'^^ 


Copyright,  1917 

BY 

CHARLES  J.    MURPHY 


SEP' --8  1917 


'Cbe  ftnfcbetbocfsev  f)ve0d,  mew  I^ovfc 


^'i'^QQSS 


EDITOR'S  FOREWORD 

Millions  of  people  in  America  are  earnestly 
seeking  a  way  to  ''do  their  bit'*  toward  win- 
,ning  the  war.  Here  is  a  simple  solution  of  the 
problem:  eat  corn  bread!  This  is  an  in- 
itial step  toward  efficient  food  conser- 
vation. 

In  1890,  Congress  sent  a  commission  abroad 
to  introduce  and  promote  the  use  of  Indian 
corn  in  foreign  domestic  economy.  An  ''In- 
dian Com  Kitchen''  was  established  in  Paris 
by  the  commission,  which  did  much  to  popu- 
larize the  grain;  but  adoption  was  slow  and  its 
use  did  not  becom^e  general. 

In  191 7,  Congress  sent  out  another  com 
message,  this  time  to  the  American  people. 
This  message  urged  the  use  of  corn  meal — 
converted  into  some  of  the  palatable  old- 
fashioned  dishes — on  our  tables  at  least  once  a 
day,  to  release  most  of  our  wheat  crop  for  the 
sustenance  of  the  Allied  armies. 

It  is  with  the  purpose  of  transmitting  this 
second   Congressional  appeal  in  a  practical 

iii 


iv  Editor's  Foreword 

way  to  American  housewives  that  the  revision 
of  this  book  has  been  undertaken. 

Visiting  foreign  war  commissions  recently 
announced  that  England,  France,  and  Italy 
would  need  560,000,000  bushels  of  grain  **to 
meet  the  conditions  to  be  met  before  the  next 
harvest/'  Each  and  every  household  can 
help  meet  this  need — a  need  which  will  exist 
for  years — ^by  eating  corn  meal  instead  of 
wheat.  The  Food  Administrator  of  the 
United  States  says:  "If  we  continue  our 
normal  rate  of  exportation  of  breadstuffs 
until  the  end  of  this  year  (19 17),  our  Allies 
will  be  reduced  to  58  per  cent,  of  their  food 
requirements.  We  must  give  them  another 
25  per  cent,  or  the  war  may  be  lost.  That 
means  that  we  must  send  them  an  additional 
100,000,000  bushels  of  wheat  over  our  normal 
shipments.  We  must  do  it  even  if  we  take 
it  off  our  own  tables. " 

If  a  complete  substitution  of  corn  and  other 
cereals  could  be  made  in  America,  it  would 
increase  our  exportable  surplus  of  wheat  150,- 
000,000  bushels.  The  temperance  wave  now 
sweeping  this  country  will  mean  another 
appreciable  release  of  available  grain. 

Europe  is  at  sea  on  the  corn  food  question, 
and  as  they  would  not  learn  to  use  it  when 
they  had  an  opportunity,  and  as  there  is  no 


Editor's  Foreword  v 

time  now  for  national  classes  of  instruction, 
it  is  obvious  that  they  must  have  our  wheat, 
while  we  must  use  our  corn. 

This  is  no  sacrifice,  though  we  may  feel  that 
it  is  one;  for  this  valuable  food  has  been 
neglected  in  recent  years,  a  deplorable  fact 
in  food  economy. 

Modern  milling  has  removed  much  of  the 
oil  from  the  meal  and  floiir  so  that  they  are 
not  a  heating  food,  even  in  summer,  as  they 
were  formerly  considered,  and  nothing  but 
good  health  can  follow  their  free  use. 

It  is  said  on  good  authority  that  America 
supplies  two-thirds  of  the  com  crop  of  the 
world,  and  that  there  are  seven  hundred 
varieties,  including  black,  white,  red,  blue, 
and  yellow,  among  which  the  dent,  flint,  soft 
maize,  sweet,  and  pop  com  are  best  known. 

After  the  Boer  War  the  African  natives  were 
spurred  by  business  depression  to  raising  large 
corn  crops,  which  were  marketed  principally 
in  England,  while  the  South  American  people 
have  been  putting  forth  efforts  to  introduce 
their  kafir  corn  to  America,  which  is  like  carry- 
ing coals  to  Newcastle,  for  we  have  already 
enough  and  to  spare. 

Corn  is  America's  biggest  crop,  and  I  appeal 
to  my  sister  women  to  rise  to  a  loyal  patriotism 
and  use  it  in  every  way  available.     Our  repu- 


vi  Editor's  Foreword 

tatlon  as  housewives  and  mothers  is  at  stake. 
We  are  known  all  over  the  world  as  the  raost 
extravagant  nation;  are  we  to  add  to  this  the 
opprobrium  of  being  the  most  selfish?  We 
can  easily  spare  all  of  otir  wheat,  with  the 
rich  cornfields  back  of  us,  without  feeling  it 
a  sacrifice,  for  the  wheat  will  go  to  feed  not 
only  otir  foreign  brothers,  but  your  boys  and 
mine. 

Having  revised  the  recipes  originally  used 
in  this  excellent  work  on  American  Indian 
Corn,  I  have  also  added  many  new  ones,  which 
the  housewife  may  use  for  breakfast,  luncheon, 
and  dinner  dishes  inclusive,  and  among  them 
she  will  find  several  excellent  meat  substitutes. 

The  data  on  corn  gathered,  and  herein  pre- 
sented by  the  distinguished  author,  will  be 
found  well  worth  careful  perusal,  and  quite  as 
valuable  to-day  as  they  were  thirty  years  ago 
when  first  presented. 

A  word  to  the  American  housewife  on  buy- 
ing corn  meal  may  not  come  amiss  from  one 
who  has  had  wide  experience  in  its  purchase 
and  use.  It  is  best  to  buy  the  meal  in  bulk, 
by  the  pound  rather  than  in  package  goods, 
for  then  one  may  see  that  it  is  fresh  and  free 
running  and  not  run  the  risk  of  buying  a 
heated,  webby,  and  bitter  product,  which  may 
have  already  germinated  the  destructive  wee- 


Editor*s  Foreword 


Vll 


vil.  This  Is  the  right  way  to  buy  and  sell 
corn  meal,  and  if  the  housewife  insists,  it 
will  be  bought  and  sold  in  this  way.  If 
bought  in  small  quantities,  as  needed,  there 
will  be  no  danger  of  these  bad  conditions  oc- 
curring in  the  home  pantry. 

Eat  corn  meal,  suggest  it  to  others,  and 
teach  them  how  to  use  it,  and  send  your  share 
of  wheat  with  a  cheery  blessing  to  ''some- 
where in  Europe, "  is  the  advice  of, 

Yours  sincerely, 
Jeannette  Young  Norton. 


INTRODUCTION 

Though  much  has  been  written  on  Indian 
corn,  or  maizes  it  has  been  my  endeavor  in 
this  treatise  to  give,  in  concise  and  siimmary 
form,  a  complete  description,  with  the  various 
uses,  of  our  great  National  grain.  The  need 
of  a  work  of  this  kind  has  long  been  felt,  and 
I  think  the  present  an  opportune  time  for  its 
publication.  The  American  Indian  Com  Ex- 
hibit has  roused  the  interest  of  the  people 
in  this  country  to  a  great  degree,  as  to  the 
adaptability  of  otir  immense  stirplus  of  In- 
dian corn  as  a  means  of  supplying  wholly, 
or  in  great  part,  the  demand  for  cheap  and 
wholesome  breadstuff s.         * 

My  exhibit,  the  first  of  a  series  which  will 
be  given  throughout  the  United  Kingdom  and 
Europe,  is  intended  to  dissipate  and  remove 
the  ignorance  and  prejudice  against  Indian 
com  which  now  prevail.  My  method  of 
attacking  the  citadel  is  as  follows:  To  cook 
the  food  in  presence  of  the  public,  serve  it  to 
them  at  nominal  prices,  distribute  literature 

ix 


X  Introduction 

in  all  languages,  giving  fiill  information,  price 
as  compared  with  wheat,  oatmeal,  and  other 
breadsttiffs,  mode  of  preparation,  and  cook- 
ing formulas.  A  few  attacks  of  this  nature 
will  make  the  stronghold  yield,  and  the  cap- 
tives otir  joyful  prisoners. 

To  foreigners  who  know  not  of  the  vast  extent 
of  our  corn  crop,  and  are  ignorant  of  its  vir- 
tues as  himian  food,  this  book  will  come  as  a 
revelation,  and  many  Americans  will,  I  fancy, 
find  much  herein  that  will  be  new  to  them  re- 
specting this  prolific  grain — the  product  of 
our  incomparable  soil  and  climate,  and  the 
source  of  so  much  wealth  and  power  to  the 
nation.  But  if  the  only  result  of  my  endeavors 
be  to  cause  a  quicker  flow  of  patriotic  feeling 
in  the  breasts  of  my  countrymen,  I  will  be 
amply  repaid  for  the  time  and  labor  I  have 
freely  given,  without  fee  or  reward. 

It  has  often  been  wondered  that  Indian  com 
in  its  many  forms  is  so  little  known  in  the 
United  Kingdom.  Except  for  the  feeding  of 
animals,  Scotchmen  are  not  familiar  with  the 
great  variety  of  wholesome,  appetizing,  and 
palatable  dishes  that  are  found  on  the  tables 
of  the  rich  and  poor  in  every  section  of  the 
United  States.  This  is  not  surprising,  how- 
ever, as  hitherto  no  attempt  has  been  made 
to  enlighten  the  people  of  these  isles  as  to  the 


Introduction  xi 

merits  and  cheapness  of  what  might  be  called 
America's  national  food.  Thejmmense  bene- 
fit that  will  restilt  to  the  two  coimtries  by  a 
removal  of  this  ignorance  will  be  readily  ap- 
parent when  it  is  considered  that  Indian  corn 
makes  a  good  substitute  for  wheat  at  less  than 
one-half  the  price.  It  will  be  a  glorious  day 
for  American  farmers  and  the  British  people 
when,  instead  of  burning  the  corn  for  fuel  on 
Western  prairies,  this  delicious  food  is  served 
on  the  tables  of  all  classes  in  these  isles  with 
saving  to  health  and  pocket.  He  who  will 
hasten  this  day  is  doing  missionary  work  of  a 
most  practical  character,  and  it  is  my  aim  to 
be  the  hximble  forerunner  in  the  beneficent 
undertaking. 

A  perusal  of  the  following  pages  will  show 
the  interest  and  commendation  my  efforts 
have  excited  here  and  in  my  own  country. 
I  have  to  thank  the  Scottish  press  for  their 
appreciation  of  the  vast  importance  and  sig- 
nificance of  this  movement,  and  to  the  promi- 
nent citizens  of  Edinburgh  who  have  favored 
me  with  their  indorsement,  and  to  the  people 
in  general,  I  return  my  grateful  acknowledg- 
ments. 

I  wish  to  give  full  and  grateful  credit  to 
ex- Governor  Furnas,  of  Nebraska;  Mrs.  Mary 
S.  Scott,  wife  of  ex-Lieutenant-Govemor  of 


xii  Introduction 

Iowa,  John  Scott,  an  old  comrade  of  mine 
in  the  Mexican  War;  and  Orange  Judd,  Esq., 
editor  of  the  Prairie  Farmer,  from  whose  ex- 
cellent works  on  Indian  Corn  I  have  quoted 
much  valuable  matter. 

C.  J.   M. 


Contents 


PAGE 

iii 


Editor's  Foreword 

Introduction       .         .         .         .         .         .  "    ix 

American  Indian  Corn        .         .         .         .         i 

Recipes  for  Corn  Dishes  Old  and  New    .       28 
Hominy  Dishes    .         .         .         .         .         -37 

Corn  Breads  and  Muffins.         ...       45 

Waffles,  Pancakes,  Fritters,  and  Dumplings      69 
Pop-corn  Dishes.         .         .         .         .         -73 

Green  Corn  Cookery  .         .         ,         -76 

Desserts     .         .         .         .         .         .         .92 

General  Remarks  on  Indian  Corn       .         .     106 


xm 


American  Indian  Corn' 

ITo  endeavor  to  provide  cheap  and  nutri- 
tious food  for  the  toiling  millions  of  Europe, 
is  certainly  a  work  of  the  highest  and  most 
practical  importance. 

To  the  traveled  man  it  reqmres  but  little 
observation  to  see  what  little  variety  of  food 
there  is  to  choose  from.  The  white  bread 
for  the  rich  man  in  Germany,  Belgium,  and 
other  European  countries,  black  bread  for  the 
peasant,  man  and  beast  sharing  alike,  are  the 
two  single  varieties  of  breadstuifs  used  by 
the  people  on  the  Continent. 

What  has  often  been  said  of  man's  oppor- 
tunity if  taken  at  the  flood,  and  surely  lead- 
ing to  fortune,  will  apply  with  equal  force 
and  application  to  nations.  That  the  United 
States  of  America   can  supply  the  demand 

^Lecture  delivered  by  Charles  j.  Murphy  before  the  National 
Agricultural  Society  at  the  International  Congress  of  Millers,  held 
in  Paris,  August  1889. 

I 


2  American  Indian  Corn 

for  cheap  wholesome  breadstuff s  no  one  will 
deny.  That  the  fitting  opportunity  has  ar- 
rived at  Paris  to  demonstrate  this,  you  will 
with  me  agree. 

This  great  International  Exposition  there- 
fore enables  us  to  give  practical  illustra- 
tion of  what  can  be  done  with  our  great 
staple. 

In  relation  to  the  value  of  Indian  corn  as 
human  food  and  for  other  useful  purposes,  if 
you  will  favor  me  with  your  attention,  I  shall 
proceed  to  place  facts  and  figures  before  you, 
which  may  prove  of  interest. 

ORIGIN 

Zthis  wonderful  product,  which  has  conferred 
such  substantial  benefits  on  the  world,  strange 
to  say,  is  of  unknown  origin — ^wrapped  in 
mystery,  or  at  least  not  definitely  fixed.  A 
learned  author,  after  much  thought  and  in- 
vestigation, concluded  with  the  expression: 
^'Like  that  of  wheat  and  barley,  its  origin  is 
lost  in  the  twilight  of  antiquity. " 

It  was  first  cultivated  in  the  United  States 
by  the  English,  on  the  James  River,  Virginia, 
in  1608,  the  seed  of  which  was  obtained  from 
the  Indians,  who  claimed  to  be  the  originators. 


American  Indian  Corn  3 

or  first  discoverers  of  the  plant — ^receiving  it 
direct  from  the  hands  of  the  Creator.  School- 
craft gives  their  mythological  history  of  it: 
"A  yoting  man  went  out  into  the  woods  to 
fast,  at  that  period  of  life  when  youth  is  ex- 
changed for  manhood.  He  built  a  lodge  of 
boughs  in  a  secluded  place,  and  painted  his 
face  a  somber  hue.  By  day  he  amused  him- 
self in  walking  about,  looking  at  the  various 
shrubs  and  wild  plants,  and  at  night  lay  down 
in  his  bower,  through  which,  being  open,  he 
could  look  up  into  the  sky.  He  sought  a 
gift  from  the  Master  of  Life,  and  he  hoped  it 
would  be  something  to  benefit  his  race.  On  the 
third  day  he  became  too  weak  to  leave  the 
lodge,  and  as  he  lay  gazing  upwards,  he  saw  a 
spirit  come  down  in  the  shape  of  a  beautiful 
young  man,  dressed  in  green,  and  having  green 
plumes  on  his  head,  who  told  him  to  arise  and 
wrestle  with  him,  as  this  was  the  only  way  in 
which  he  could  obtain  his  wishes.  He  did 
so,  and  found  his  strength  renewed  by  the 
effort.  The  visit  and  the  trial  of  wrestling 
were  repeated  for  four  days,  the  youth  feeling 
at  each  trial  that,  although  his  bodily  strength 
declined,  a  moral  and  supernatural  energy 
was  imparted,  which  promised  him  the  final 
victory.  On  the  third  day  his  celestial  visitor 
spoke  to  him;  'To-morrow,'  said  he,  *will  be 


4  American  Indian  Corn 

the  seventh  day  of  yoiir  fast,  and  the  last  time 
I  shall  wrestle  with  you.  You  will  triumph 
over  me,  and  gain  your  wishes.  As  soon  as 
you  have  thrown  me  down,  strip  off  my  clothes 
and  bury  me  on  the  spot  in  soft  fresh  earth. 
When  you  have  done  this,  leave  me,  but  come 
occasionally  to  visit  the  place,  to  keep  the 
weeds  from  growing.  Once  or  twice  cover  me 
with  fresh  earth.*  He  then  departed,  but 
returned  the  next  day,  and,  as  he  had  predicted 
was  thrown  down.  The  young  man  punc- 
tually obeyed  his  instructions  in  every  parti- 
cular, and  soon  had  the  pleasure  of  seeing  the 
green  plumes  of  his  sky  visitor  shooting  up 
through  the  ground.  He  carefully  weeded  the 
earth,  and  kept  it  fresh  and  soft,  and  in  due 
time  was  gratified  by  beholding  the  matured 
plant,  bending  with  its  golden  fruit,  and 
gracefully  waving  its  green  leaves  and  yellow 
tassel  in  the  wind.  He  then  invited  his 
parents  to  the  spot  to  behold  the  new  plant. 
'It  is  Mondamin, *  replied  his  father;  "it 
is  the  Spirit's  grain.'  They  immediately 
prepared  a  feast,  and  invited  their  friends 
to  partake  of  it,  and  thus  originated  Indian 
Corn." 

Longfellow,  in  his  beautiful  verse,   "Hia- 
watha,'' refers  to  this  legend: 


American  Indian  Corn  5 

All  around  the  happ}^  village, 
Stood  the  maize  fields  green  and  shining, 
Waved  the  green  plumes  of  Mondamin ; 
Waved  his  soft  and  sunny  tresses. 
Filling  all  the  land  with  plenty. 

Before  the  summer  ended, 
Stood  the  maize  in  all  its  beauty, 
With  its  shining  robes  about  it ; 
With  its  long  soft  yellow  tresses; 
And  in  rapture  Hiawatha 
Cried  aloud — "it  is  Mondamin"! 
Yes,  the  friend  of  man,  Mondamin. 

Whatever  the  origin  of  corn  may  have  been, 
whether  with  the  Indians  of  North  America, 
or  ''on  the  slopes  of  the  Andes,  or  in  the  fertile 
valleys  of  the  mountains  of  China,"  modem 
botanists  and  naturalists  are  agreed  that  the 
origin  was  of  the  species  %ea  tunica — clothed 
corn.  That  is,  each  kernel  was  enveloped  in 
a  separate  tunic  or  husk,  similar  to  grains  of 
wheat  in  the  head.  Descending  frojn  this 
type,  species,  classes,  and  varieties  have 
become  almost  innumerable,  each  country, 
climate,  soil,  situation,  and  parallel  having 
those  suited  to  the  eirctmistances.  No  plant 
accepts  the  modifications  of  soil,  climate,  and 
conditions  so  readily  and  quickly  as  corn. 
No  other  succeeds  so  well  from  the  equator 
to  say  50°  north  and  south  latitude.     None  is 


6  American  Indian  Corn 

so  easily  preserved  through  all  seasons,  and  for 
such  length  of  time.  It  is  called  both  'Hhe 
poor  man's  crop"  and  "the  lazy  man's  crop/' 
because,  particularly,  it  can  be  left  standing  in 
the  field  almost  from  one  year's  end  to  another, 
not  requiring  to  be  garnered  at  any  specific 
period.  This  mode  of  caring  for  a  corn  crop, 
however,  is  not  presented  in  the  form  of  a 
recommendation,  by  any  means,  but  simply 
as  showing  a  characteristic.  In  any  event,  it 
is  the  crop  for  the  million. 

SPECIES  AND   VALUE 

^here  are  at  least  five  distinct  races  of 
species  of  corn:  dent,  flint,  sweet,  pop,  and 
soft.  These  divisions  are  plainly  marked, 
and  easily  distinguished  by  inspection  of 
either,  or  both,  ears  and  kernels.  The  number 
of  what  may  be  properly  termed  varieties  are 
unlimited  almost,  the  names  principally  local, 
few  only  having  become  of  general  use.  White 
dent,  yellow  dent,  Yankee  flint,  calico,  bloody 
butcher,  late  sugar,  early  sugar,  red  pop, 
white  pop,  squaw,  Chester  County,  or  Penn- 
sylvania mammoth,  and  others  that  might  be 
named,  are  known  in  almost  all  sections.  In 
the  collection  on  exhibition  at  New  Orleans, 
there  were  seventy-five  distinct  varieties  grown 


American  Indian  Corn  7 

in  Nebraska.  There  are  different  types  of 
growth  under  each  of  the  principal  divisions 
named,  showing  distinct  characteristics,  and 
which  invariably  produce  ears  true  to  their 
type,  when  kept  free  from  others ;  such  as  pure 
white,  pure  yellow,  pure  red,  regular  mixtures, 
eight  rowed,  and  other  numbered  rows.  The 
Indians  have,  by  close  attention,  succeeded  in 
opening  a  marked  com  of  precise  and  exact 
mixtures  of  different  colored  grains  on  the 
same  ear,  each  band  having  its  peculiar  mix- 
ture. For  instance,  one  band  has  all  red  and 
white  grains,  another  all  pure  black,  and  so 
on,  with  various  distinctions,  said  to  have 
originated  as  a  means  of  detecting  theft  by 
one  band  from  another.  All  may  be  simplified 
under  these  heads,  viz. :  dent,  flint,  etc.,  species; 
yellow,  white,  etc.,  classes;  large,  medium,  and 
small  types. 

After  all,  nomenclature  is  of  secondary 
importance  when  compared  with  a  standard 
of  excellence.  The  first  prime  point  in  an  ear 
of  corn  is  its  nutritive  substance.  It  should 
show  a  proper  proportion  of  protein,  carbo- 
hydrates,  and  fat.  It  is  generally  considered 
that  the  flint  and  sugar  varieties  show  a  higher 
nutritive  ratio  than  the  dents.  The  latter 
however,  are  in  more  general  use  commercially, 
and  therefore  regarded  as  the  standards. 


8  American  Indian  Corn 

Pop  corn  is  another  distinct  species  of  which 
the  varieties  are  many ;  when  gradually  heated 
the  oil  in  the  kernels  becomes  converted  into 
gas,  which  by  its  explosion  produces  the  pheno- 
menon called  ''popping." 

Examine  the  inside  of  a  grain  through  a  mi- 
croscope, first  cutting  the  grain  in  the  raiddle. 
May  we  not  well  call  every  kernel  of  corn  a 
great  starch  box,  each  one  with  thousands  of 
little  boxes  inside  of  a  larger  one.  And  then 
what  a  vast  number!  Why,  a  single  ounce 
of  average  dent  corn  contains  eighty  good 
kernels,  so  the  pound  must  have  1280  kernels, 
and  a  single  bushel  of  com  (56  lbs.)  will  count 
out  at  least  twenty  thousand  of  these  wonder- 
ful starch  boxes,  or  kernels, — to  say  nothing 
of  the  innttmerable  interior  boxes  or  starch 
cells.  Who  can  write  down  figures  enough  to 
enumerate  the  kernels  or  starch  boxes  sup- 
plied in  the  2,225,000,000  bushels  of  corn 
grown  in  our  country  (1888)?  You  cannot 
think  of  one  million,  yet  the  starch  boxes 
would  reach  one  hundred  and  twelve  millions 
of  millions,  or  one  hundred  and  twelve  trillions, 
112,000,000,000  kernels,  or  seventy -seven 
thousand  such  starch  boxes  for  every  man, 
woman,  and  child  on  the  whole  surface  of  the 
earth. 
.  And  yet  we  have  not  said  anything  about  the 


American  Indian  Corn  9 

wonderftJ  structure  and  uses  of  the  lower  in- 
side of  our  kernel  of  corn;  of  the  germ  that 
starts  into  growth  to  produce  a  new  com  stalk; 
of  how  it  is  surrounded  and  protected ;  or  how, 
as  it  grows,  it  feeds  upon  the  starch  and  other 
food  stored  up  in  the  box  or  kernel. 

I  make  bold  to  assert  the  belief  that  among 
all  the  factors  of  culture  in  the  United  States, 
corn  takes  precedence  in  the  scale  of  crops 
as  best  adapted  to  more  soils,  climates,  and 
conditions ;  is  used  for  more  purposes;  furnishes 
more  nutritive  food  for  man  and  beast;  has 
more  commercial,  cultural,  and  economic 
value;  gives  more  grain  to  the  acre  than  any 
other  cereal ;  more  fodder  than  any  other  of  the 
grasses;  puts  our  beef  in  prime  order;  fattens 
our  pork ;  is  the  basis  of  our  butter  and  cheese 
supply ;  furnishes  immense  manufacturing  ma- 
terial; has  twice  the  value  of  cotton;  worth 
fifty  per  cent,  more  than  wheat;  its  influence 
on  the  prosperity  and  wealth  of  the  United 
States  is  greater  than  that  of  any  other  cul- 
tivated plant;  and  to  the  transportation  com- 
panies, has  ''millions  in  it."  The  belief  has 
been  expressed  that  had  not  the  Pilgrim 
Fathers  discovered  this  golden  grain  the  first 
winter  they  landed  on  our  shores,  this  ''land 
of  the  free  and  home  of  the  brave"  would 
to-day  be  an  "unsolved  problem."     But  why 


10  American  Indian  Corn 

extend?     Its  uses  and  value  are  endless  and 
incalculable. 

In  round  numbers,  the  corn  crop  of  the 
United  States  for  1885  is  put  down  at  two 
billions  of  bushels,  a  gain  of  near  ten  per  cent, 
on  1884.  In  the  corn  acreage  of  the  entire 
country  there  was  a  gain  of  six  per  cent.  In 
the  twelve  leading  corn  States,  seven  per  cent. ; 
four  per  cent,  in  the  South,  and  one  per  cent, 
in  the  New  England  States. 

OUR  MOST  IMPORTANT  CROP 

Undian  corn  is  held  in  small  esteem,  because 
it  is  grown  so  easily  and  so  abundantly  in 
almost  all  climates  and  locations,  and  on  a 
greater  variety  of  soils  than  any  other  leading 
crop.  We  find  it  flourishing  on  the  borders  of 
the  realm  where  the  sun  unlocks  the  soil  from 
the  grasp  of  the  ice  king  but  a  few  days  in 
summer — scarcely  a  quarter  of  each  year. 
And  it  grows  with  increasing  luxuriance  as  we 
descend  toward  the  tropics.  It  reaches  its 
greatest  perfection  in  what  is  appropriately 
termed  the  ''Corn  Belt,"  embraced  in  the 
States  of  Illinois  and  those  lying  eastward 
and  westward  of  this  commonwealth.  As 
food  for  man  and  beast  no  other  crop  in  our 
country  approaches  corn.     Pound  for  poimd 


American  Indian  Corn  n 

and  bushel  for  bushel,  it  supplies  as  much 
nutriment  as  wheat  itself,  though,  on  account 
of  its  abundance,  costing  considerably  less 
than  one  half  as  much.  Corn,  taking  a 
series  of  years  together,  is  far  more  certain 
than  wheat. 

We  have  seen  the  Indians  gathering  their 
winter  supplies  on  the  upper  Missotm,  where 
the  fev/  days  in  which  there  was  no  frost 
scarcely  allowed  their  Rhea  corn  to  get  a  foot 
above  the  surface.  But  as  if  determined  to 
do  its  best,  it  then  sends  out  its  bunches  of 
ears  and  perfects  the  kernels. 

Of  the  magnitude  of  the  com  crop,  very  few 
persons  have  any  real  conception.  We  talk 
glibly  of  millions,  and  even  billions,  yet  the 
human  mind  is  little  able  to  com.prehend  a 
single  million  in  detail.  Last  year,  the  as- 
certained crop  was  two  thousand  million  of 
bushels;  and  no  doubt  the  average  annual 
product  of  corn  in  our  country  will  soon  reach 
over  two  billion  bushels,  or  two  thousand  sepa- 
rate millions.  Yet  a  single  million,  loaded 
into  railway  cars,  five  hundred  bushels  in  each, 
would  require  two  thousand  such  cars,  and 
make  up  a  continuous  train,  eight  miles 
long.  To  aid  the  reader's  conception,  I  quote, 
a  few  lines,  from  the  annual  address  at  the 
Nebraska  State  Fair  last  year,  by  the  editor 


12  American  Indian  Corn 

of  the  Prairie  Farmer.  Referring  to  the 
six-State  ''Corn  Patch/'  embracing  Indiana, 
Illinois,  Iowa,  Missouri,  Kansas,  and  Nebraska, 
the  com  product  of  which  the  previous  year 
(1884)  was  1,090,351,000  bushels,  he  said: 
''The  aggregate  population  producing  this 
crop  was  just  about  ten  millions,  or  109  bushels 
for  every  man,  woman,  or  child,  the  inhabitants 
of  both  cities  and  villages  being  included. 
For  a  practical  purpose,  as  you  will  see  further 
on,  I  want  you  to  get  some  idea  of  the  vastness 
of  this  corn  crop  you  are  growing.  To  say  a 
thousand  and  ninety  million  bushels  does  not 
tell  the  story  plainly  enough.  Let  us  load  it 
upon  wagons.  One  can  think  of  ten  bushels 
thus  loaded  with  the  team  and  driver  taking  it 
to  market.  Start  off  one  team  eastward,  allow- 
ing thirty  feet  in  road  for  wagon,  team,  and 
a  little  headway.  Start  another  team  follow- 
ing, with  forty  bushels  more,  and  then  another, 
and  another,  the  forward  team  headed  for 
New  York,  and  the  others  following  on,  until 
our  corn  crop  of  last  year  in  this  one  six- 
State  patch  is  all  loaded  up.  Where  do  you 
think  the  forward  team  would  be  when  the 
last  load  is  on?  Down  in  Ohio?  In  Pennsyl- 
vania? In  New  York?  Out  in  the  Atlantic? 
Over  in  Europe?  Away  in  Asia?  Over  in 
Japan?     Into  the  Pacific  Ocean?     Stretching 


American  Indian  Corn  13 

still  across  the  broad  surface  of  that,  on  to 
San  Francisco?  Across  CaHfornia?  [Follow 
in  the  mind,  eastward,  the  string  of  wagons 
taking  thirty  feet  each,  with  forty  bushels  each 
of  good  shelled  corn.] — It  would  stretch 
over  all  the  distances  we  have  named.  The 
head  of  the  line  would  come  across  California 
and  down  from  the  Rocky  Moimtains — a 
string  of  such  teams  clear  aroimd  the  world, 
and  when  the  head  of  the  line  got  to  us,  not  one 
bushel  out  of  six  would  yet  be  on  the  wagons ; 
this  one  year's  crop,  in  only  this  six-State 
patch  would  fill  six  rows  of  such  wagon  loads 
clear  around  the  world,  with  about  four  thou- 
sand miles  of  wagon  loads  more  still  to  get  into 
line !  The  line  of  wagons  would  stretch  away 
in  a  straight  line  154,879  miles!  Or,  this  one 
year's  crop  would  fill  over  forty-four  continu- 
ous lines  of  wagon  loads,  from  Boston  to  San 
Francisco ! — Once  more :  You  have  seen  over  a 
dozen  such  wagon  loads,  or  five  hundred 
bushels,  emptied  into  a  single  freight  car,  only 
forty  feet  long,  including  its  platforms.  Let 
us  see  what  otir  last  year's  com  (in  these  six 
States  only)  would  do  if  thus  loaded  in  five 
hundred  bushel  lots,  and  the  freight  cars 
started  off  on  the  railway  track,  one  after 
another.  The  freight  train  would  stretch  out 
and  out  to  New  York,  across  the  Atlantic, 


14  American  Indian  Corn 

across  Europe,  and  nearly  across  Asia,  before 
the  last  car  was  on  the  track.  The  cars 
would  form  four  continuous  freight  trains 
from  New  York  to  San  Francisco — clear 
across  our  whole  country — ^with  a  train  2500 
miles  long  left  over !  Think  over  these  wagon 
loads  again;  more  than  six  lines  of  these 
around  the  world;  these  freight-car  loads; 
over  four  and  one  half  trains  from  the  Atlantic 
to  the  Pacific !  All  this  corn  from  our  central 
six-State  corn  patch.  But  while  these  figiires 
are  wonderful,  they  teach  a  lesson  of  vast 
importance  to  you,  and  I  have  given  these 
striking  illustrations  to  fix  your  attention  upon 
the  practical  lesson.  Suppose  you  and  all  the 
others  had  simply  grown  eleven  stalks,  or 
eleven  ears  where  you  grew  ten — only  one 
ear  more  in  all  the  hills  that  furnished  ten  ears. 
What  would  have  been  the  result?  It  would 
have  given  an  extra  string  of  forty-bushel 
wagon  loads,  reaching  from  here  to  the  At- 
lantic, across  the  Atlantic,  across  Europe,  and 
nearly  across  Asia.  It  would  have  given  four 
and  one  half  extra  strings  of  wagon  loads  from 
San  Francisco  to  Boston.  It  wotild  have  filled 
extra  freight  cars  enough,  each  holding  five 
hundred  bushels,  to  have  made  up  a  freight 
train  from  the  Missouri  River  to  New  York 
City.     At  the  average  price  in  Chicago,  this 


American  Indian  Corn  15 

extra  one  car  in  each  ten  woiild  have  turned 
in  forty-four  milHons  cash.  At  a  Httle  less 
than  twenty-four  cents  per  bushel  this  extra 
ear  for  each  ten  grown  would  have  equaled  in 
cash  value  a  full  half  of  the  entire  farm  pro- 
ducts of  Nebraska,  live  stock  included." 

So  heavily  loaded  a  train  travels  slowly,  and 
would  require  a  whole  year  to  pass  through 
Chicago.  For  hours  the  express  train  whirls 
past  a  green  ocean  of  corn,  wherein  not  a  hill 
is  missing.  Its  towering  stalks  would  afford 
secure  ambush  for  an  army  of  1,000,000  of 
men,  mounted  and  foot,  artillery,  ambulances, 
mule  trains,  and  stragglers. 

The  present  price  of  corn  is  very  low,  and  if 
the  life  is  to  be  pounded  out  of  it,  and  no  relief 
comes,  the  farmers  must  let  their  lands  return 
to  grass,  and  their  only  hope  lies  in  an  in- 
creased export  demand.  According  to  the 
State  Agricultural  report  of  1888  Iowa 
is  the  banner  State  for  corn,  last  year  having 
raised  on  7,797,090  acres  a  total  product  of 
321,629,961  bushels.  The  average  price  paid 
is  only  twenty-three  cents  per  bushel;  com- 
mercial value  of  crop  $93,974,891.  This  is 
almost  equal  to  the  value  of  all  the  gold,  silver, 
and  lead  mined  in  the  United  States  in  1886, 
which  was  $87,535,000.  It  is  almost  a  larger 
sum  than  all  the  railroads  in  the  United  States 


i6  American  Indian  Corn 

paid  in  dividends  on  stocks  in  that  year.  It  is 
$8,000,000  more  than  the  total  net  earnings  of 
all  the  National  banks  of  America,  and  is 
considerably  more  than  the  total  dividends 
paid  by  those  banks  in  1887.  It  gives  to  every 
man,  woman,  and  child  in  the  State,  after  re- 
serving seed  for  eight  million  acres,  nearly 
twelve  thousand  bushels  or  six  tons  of  corn. 

An  increase  of  only  five  cents  a  bushel  on 
last  year's  (1888)  crop  would  amount  to 
nearly  $100,000,000. 

OUR  GREAT  CORN  STATES 

■f 

3from  the  official  returns  of  the  Iowa  Agri- 
cultural Society,  the  yield  of  the  corn  States 
was  as  follows : 

Acres  Bushels 

Iowa 7,797,090  321,629,961 

Illinois. 7,047,813  277,726,451 

Indiana 3,419,377  128,436,284 

Kansas. 5,574,465  168,755,087 

Missouri 6,447,168  210,822,394 

Nebraska.. 2,604,216  84,126,352 

Ohio 1,460,082  90,423,821 

Total  for  the  seven  States 1,281,920,350 

Of  this,  our  greatest  crop,  we  export  to  all 
the  world  about  only  four  per  cent,  of  our  whole 
production.       All  the  other  cereals  bow  alle- 


American  Indian  Corn  17 

giance  to  corn.  Had  the  soil  of  North  America 
refused  to  yield  corn,  the  progress  of  Western 
civilization  would  be  retarded  a  half  century. 
Corn  has  built  more  miles  of  railroad,  erected 
more  buildings,  clothed  and  fed  more  people 
than  any  other  product  of  American  soil. 
Corn  built  Chicago,  and  when  Chicago  was 
reduced  to  ashes,  rebuilt  her.  With  a  ■  pro- 
phetic appreciation  of  a  possible  ultimate  ex- 
istence in  liquid  form,  it  does  not  like  water. 
If  the  soil  be  wet  and  cold,  it  turns  yellow  with 
spleen,  and  dies  untimely. 

The  principal  European  countries  favor  the 
importation  of  corn,  as  there  are  no  duties 
levied  on  it  in  the  United  Kingdom,  Germany, 
France,  Holland,  Belgium,  Norway,  Sweden, 
etc. 

I  doubt  if  the  projectors  of  either  of  the 
canals  across  the  Isthmus  in  Central  America 
ever  considered,  that  if  one  is  ever  finished, 
a  great  part  of  the  freight  going  to  the  Pacific 
would  be  composed  of  American  corn.  I  have 
lately  investigated  this  matter,  and  I  find  that 
com  can  be  landed  on  the  coast  of  China  in 
thirty  days  from  New  Orleans  by  steam,  and 
can  be  sold,  considering  the  present  price  of 
com  at  home,  for  half  the  price  of  rice,  which,  as 
everybody  knows,  is  the  principal  food  of  the 
Chinese,  and  when  they  find  this  out,  it  won't 


i8  American  Indian  Corn 

take  the  Chinaman  long  to  learn  how  to  cook 
it.  I  know  the  habits  of  these  Chinese  well; 
I  was  a  merchant  in  Shanghai  some  years  ago, 
and  these  people  are  so  poor  they  will  eat 
anything  that  will  sustain  life,  cheapness 
being  the  first  consideration.  Then  just  think 
the  quantity  they  would  take  when  once 
introduced,  when  we  consider  that  the  popu- 
lation of  that  vast  country  is  nearly  four 
hundred  million  people. 

Our  corn  crop  gathered  in  1889  is  the  largest 
the  country  ever  produced,  estimated  at  over 
two  billions,  two  hundred  and  fifty  million 
bushels  of  fifty-six  pounds  each  were  raised 
on  nearly  eighty  million  acres  of  the  finest 
land  in  the  world,  and  the  crop  will  bring  us 
in  nearly  seven  hundred  million  dollars. 

Our  school  teachers  are  now  by  law  required 
to  teach  many  abstract  things  that  we  scarcely 
heard  of  in  our  young  days.  How  would  it 
seem  to  have  them  teach  the  various  uses  of 
corn  to  the  rising  generation?  It  would  be 
something  tangible  that  the  youthful  mind 
could  grasp,  and  would  relieve  and  rest  the 
faculties  after  laboring  with  anatomy,  physi- 
ology, and  the  like,  besides  preparing  the 
rising  generation  for  using,  advocating,  and 
recommending  this  our  greatest  staple  crop, 
and  when  lessons  are  given  jn  cooking,  sup-. 


American  Indian  Corn  19 

pose  a  palatable  corn  dodger  be  given  pre- 
cedence. 

My  plan  included  a  Corn  Palace  and  the 
illustrations  of  the  various  foods  made  from 
corn,  in  order  to  enlighten  the  world  as  far 
as  practicable  on  the  subject  of  Indian  corn 
as  food.  It  would  have  been  prepared  and 
cooked  in  presence  of  the  multitude,  and  dis- 
tributed free  in  its  most  appetizing  forms. 
How  important  such  an  enterprise  would  be 
when  given  before  the  representatives  of 
millions  of  people  to  whom  such  uses  of  the 
grain  are  unknown,  and  to  whom  the  only 
available  argument  is  by  means  of  ocular 
demonstration,  and  by  the  application  of  the 
old  adage  that  '^the  proof  of  the  pudding  is 
in  the  eating.**  Considering  the  extremely 
low  price  at  which  corn  can  be  laid  down  at  a 
foreign  port  as  compared  with  wheat,  it  would 
very  likely  find  its  way  into  hundreds  of  thou- 
sands of  households,  both  on  the  Continent 
and  in  the  United  Kingdom,  where  wheat 
bread  is  a  luxury,  and  rye  bread  and  oatmeal 
the  common  food  of  the  peasant,  the  farmer, 
and  the  poorer  class  of  mechanics. 

When  its  preparation  for  the  palate  of  the 
epiciu-e  is  understood,  it  would  be  in  demand 
for  the  tables  of  the  wealthy,  and  when  re- 
presentatives of   royalty  come  to  taste  this 


20  American  Indian  Corn 

most  palatable  and  nutritious  food,  it  may 
become  the  fashion  to  rear  the  young  princes 
on  the  grainy  in  which  case  we  would  need  to 
greatly  increase  the  acreage  to  supply  the  demand 
for  exportation. 

With  the  greater  familiarity  with  the  mul- 
tiple uses  to  which  corn  may  be  applied  as  a 
food,  both  in  the  United  States  and  in  Europe, 
may  grow  a  steady  demand  that  will  in  a  few 
years  take  all  the  surplus  we  can  spare,  to- 
gether with  that  produced  in  the  few  corn  belts 
in  other  parts  of  the  world;  and  it  is  of  the 
greatest  importance  to  the  agriculturist  of  the 
United  States,  to  whom  additional  outlets  for 
their  products,  particularly  that  of  corn,  are 
absolutely  necessary. 

Of  the  two  billions  of  bushels  crop  of  1885, 
18,927,982  bushels  were  used  for  distillation; 
a  bushel  of  corn  when  converted  into  whisky 
represents  seventeen  quarts  of  this  liquid  fire. 

An  English  agricultural  writer  and  lecturer 
on  bread-making  at  the  Polytechnic  Institute 
(I  quote  from  his  article  in  a  London  journal) , 
says:  ''We  are  familiar  with  maize  in  a  whole 
form  chiefly  for  cattle-feeding  purposes,  but 
the  substance  generally  sold  as  corn  flour  is 
also  the  starch  of  maize  specially  prepared. 
Maize,  or  as  it  is  generally  called,  Indian  corn, 
is  a  most  productive  grain;  its  nutritive  value 


American  Indian  Corn  21 

compared  with  wheat  is  high.  It  is  unsuit- 
able for  baking  into  large  or  thick  loaves  on 
account  of  the  difficulty  of  thoroughly  cooking 
the  interior  parts.  In  the  Western  States  of 
America  it  is  prepared  in  the  form  of  cakes, 
like  thick  oaten  cakes,  and  cooked  before  the 
fire  or  in  an  oven,  these  'buckwheat^  cakes,  as 
they  are  called,  are  best  eaten  hot  with  butter 
and  milk.    This  food  is  really  very  nourishing.  * ' 

I  merely  instance  this  writer  in  order  to 
show  the  foreigners'  ignorance  of  this  valuable 
food,  although  the  lecturer  admits  its  great 
merits  as  a  wholesome  and  nutritive  grain  for 
human  consumption. 

Our  annual  surplus  of  corn  is  enormous,  and 
it  is  a  very  pertinent  and  a  very  important 
question  to  find  a  market  for  the  largest  part 
of  the  surplus.  We  manage,  indeed,  to  get  rid 
of  it  annually  in  various  ways,  in  feeding  cattle 
and  hogs,  as  a  part  of  the  food  of  our  people, 
in  the  making  of  glucose,  which  manufacture  is 
of  late  years  assuming  enormous  proportions; 
we  also  use  immense  quantities  in  the  manu- 
facture of  beer,  starch,  and  whisky,  and  in  pre- 
parations sold  as  table  delicacies.  The  latest 
discovery  has  been  the  production  of  oil  from 
the  germ,  and  two  manufactories  are  now 
turning  out  considerable  quantities,  which 
meet  with  a  ready  sale.     The  canning  of  sweet 


22  American  Indian  Corn 

green,  corn  is  also  increasing  enormously. 
Of  considerable  importance  is  the  use  of  com 
fodder  for  domestic  animals,  for  besides  the 
extensive  use  of  grain  there  is  the  utilization 
of  the  juicy  stalks  and  leaves,  and  now  that 
ensilage  is  coming  into  much  favor,  the  con- 
sumption of  cow  corn  has  become  very  large. 
Perhaps  the  most  singular  use  to  which  com 
has  been  put  is  that  of  fuel,  as  has  sometimes 
happened  in  the  treeless  regions  of  the  West. 
It  has  been  burned  and  found  a  thoroughly 
good  substitute  for  wood  or  coal. 

Every  part  is  utilized,  even  to  the  husks, 
which  are  used  by  paper-makers  as  a  material 
for  pulp;  by  upholsterers  as  filling  for  mat- 
tresses and  the  like ;  by  the  orange  growers  of 
Southern  Europe  for  packing  their  fruit;  by 
the  South  Americans  as  cigarette  wrappers, 
and  is  much  used  for  a  kind  of  coarse  door  mat. 
But  enough  has  been  said  to  make  it  plain 
that  corn  must  rank  among  the  most  useftil 
plants  known  to  man. 

So  large  is  the  supply  that  it  can  only  be 
absorbed  at  home  by  putting  down  the  price 
to  the  lowest  figures.  The  average  price  paid 
officially,  given  in  the  Agricultural  Biireau  re- 
port (1890),  was  only  twenty -three  cents  per 
bushel,  a  price  which  is  entirely  unremunera- 
tive  to  our  farmers. 


American  Indian  Corn  23 

My  ambition  is  to  teach  the  people  of  the 
world  how  simiptuously  they  can  live  on  this 
comparatively  unknown  grain  that  contains  as 
much  actual  nourishment  as  the  best  wheaten 
flour,  oatmeal,  or  any  other  farinaceous  food. 
In  the  extent  and  variety  of  its  forms  and  uses, 
few  plants  will  bear  comparison  with  maize. 
The  plant  itself  is  the  most  beautiful  of  all 
the  cereals,  and  a  field  of  it  in  full  growth  is  at 
once  lovely  and  impressive.  The  long,  grace- 
fully tapering  dark  green  leaves  are  sur- 
mounted by  bright  straw-colored  blossoms, 
and  as  they  wave  and  rustle  in  the  breeze,  the 
sight  is  charming  to  the  eye.  From  the  stalk 
grow  the  ears,  which  nestle  among  the  leaves, 
being  further  protected  by  a  sheathing  of  many 
folds,  from  which  depend  silken  tassels  called 
''corn  silk." 

Indian  corn  meal,  com  starch,  hominy,  pop 
and  sweet  corn,  mahogany-colored  loaves  of 
Boston  brown  bread,  Indian  pones,  golden 
Johnny  cakes,  corn  mush,  Indian  pudding, 
corn  dodgers,  green  corn  pudding,  com  griddle 
cakes,  corn-meal,  crimipets,  corn  waffles  and 
gophers,  croquettes,  and  corn  fritters,  canned 
com  and  succotash,  pinole,  samp,  corn  grits, 
cereal  flakes,  and  numerous  other  com  pre- 
parations are  produced  which  are  as  pleasing 
to  the  eye  as  they  are  grateful  to  the  palate. 


24  American  Indian  Corn 

From  this  food  the  hard-working  active 
man  can  draw  health  to  meet  the  drain  upon 
his  nervous  system,  and  his  muscle  for  every 
effort.  Corn  furnishes  more  material  for  hard 
work  than  any  other  known  grain.  It  is  rich 
in  food  for  muscle  and  brain.  It  secures 
health  and  strength,  with  economy  and 
pleasure  in  the  eating. 

As  an  article  of  himian  consumption,  com 
is  the  chief  bread  food  of  many  tropical  and 
semi-tropical  countries;  it  is  to  the  Mexican 
what  rice  is  to  the  Chinaman. 

Corn,  in  the  shape  of  pinole,  is  now  served 
out  as  a  ration  in  the  Mexican  army,  and  from 
late  discoveries  among  the  aborigines  of  Ari- 
zona, the  process  has  been  discovered  whereby 
baked  corn  bread  can  be  preserved  sweet  and 
in  good  condition  for  a  year  and  more,  and  one 
of  the  objects  of  my  mission  in  Europe  is  to 
endeavor  to  introduce  the  use  of  corn  food 
into  the  armies  of  Europe,  which  would  cause 
a  saving  of  a  fabulous  amotmt  of  money 
annually. 

In  the  early  history  of  Egypt,  Greece,  and 
Rome,  com  was  extensively  used,  and  the 
highest  intellectual,  as  well  as  physical  achieve- 
ments of  those  days  were  accomplished  under 
a  regimen  of  corn. 

Com   stands  peerless   in   rank  araong  the 


American  Indian  Corn  25 

cereal  products  of  the  earth.  Its  hygienic, 
culinary,  and  scientific  excellence  is  not  siiffi- 
ciently  known,  as  comfort,  health,  and  pros- 
perity are  so  dependent  on  what  we  eat  and 
drink  that  corn  is  the  best  adapted,  for  not 
only  producing  a  healthy  and  strong  body  and 
mind,  but  also  for  preserving  both  in  that 
condition. 

Piso  and  other  Spanish  doctors  have  writ- 
ten treatises  on  the  medicinal  virtues  of  this 
grain.  It  was  the  only  bread  used  in  America 
by  the  Spaniards  for  many  years  after  its 
discovery. 

The  toiling  millions  on  the  continent  con- 
tinue to  eat  their  bitter  black  bread,  or  sjpend 
more  than  they  can  afford  for  wheaten  loaves, 
while  the  value  and  palatableness  of  com  re- 
main almost  unknown  to  them. 

The  capacity  of  corn,  as  a  food,  has  not 
begun  to  be  appreciated  even  in  the  United 
States.  The  preparation  of  corn  may  be 
infinitely  more  varied  than  that  of  wheat. 
Americans  have  never  taken  a  proper  pride 
in  this  great  native  cereal  Indian  corn.  Nearly 
every  other  country  has  its  special  food  pro- 
duct, which  it  claims  as  its  own  distinctively, 
whether  native  to  the  soil  or  not,  and  vaunts 
its  merits  until  it  becomes  inseparably  as- 
sociated in  each  case  with  the  national  idea. 


26  American  Indian  Corn 

Ireland  has  given  its  name  to  the  potato,  al- 
though that  tuber  is  of  American  origin. 

Scotland  does  not  boast  of  its  oat  crop,  but 
Scotch  oat  cakes  are  the  people's  pride. 

Germans  dote  on  their  rye  bread;  entire 
races  in  Asia  exist  on  rice,  and  are  happy. 

With  numerous  preparations  of  corn,  white 
as  snow,  yellow  as  gold,  fine  as  wheat  flour, 
ground  or  in  dainty  flakes,  some  unreasonable 
Americans  prefer  to  irritate  their  interior  with 
indigestible  oat  meal  or  tasteless  rice,  and  in 
place  of  the  com  bread,  that  made  their 
pioneer  ancestors  robust  and  vigorous,  they 
consume  the  sticky  rye  and  dainty  but  less 
nourishing  wheaten  loaves.  From  a  hygienic 
standpoint,  however,  if  for  no  other,  it  would 
be  well  for  them  to  become  acquainted  with 
the  culinary  possibilities  of  Indian  com. 

I  can  personally  speak  of  the  sustaining 
power  of  Indian  corn,  for  in  the  early  days  of 
our  war  of  the  rebellion  I  was  a  prisoner  of 
war  in  Richmond,  being  captured  at  the  battle 
of  Bull  Run.  I  was  fortimate  enough  to  be 
one  of  the  first  three  oflicers  who  escaped  from 
that  prison;  my  companions  were  General 
Wm.  H.  Raynor,  now  of  Toledo,  Ohio,  and 
Colonel  Jno.  R.  Hurd,  now  of  Syracuse, 
Kansas.  We  were  eleven  days  reaching  the 
Potomac  River,  and  during  all  that  long  and 


American  Indian  Corn  27 

dreary  tramp  through  the  woods  and  swamps 
of  Virginia,  subject  to  intense  excitement,  we 
had  nothing  to  eat  but  raw  corn,  gathered  at 
long  intervals,  which  fortified  us  in  our  race 
for  liberty. 

The  great  difficulty  of  introducing  corn  for 
table  use  in  Europe  is  the  ignorance  that 
prevails  as  to  the  proper  methods  of  cooking  it. 
In  the  rough  way  it  has  ordinarily  been  tried 
it  has  not  been  foimd  palatable.  Before  it  can, 
therefore,  be  introduced  on  European  tables 
and  its  merits  appreciated,  there  must  be  ex- 
plicit instructions  given  in  its  preparation. 

Charles  J.  Murphy. 


Recipes  for  Corn  Dishes  Old  and 

New 

CORN-MEAL  MUSH  OR  **HASTY 
PUDDING" 

(Take  one  quart  of  fresh  yellow  com  meal 
and  wet  it  thoroughly  with  a  pint  of  cold 
water.  Put  three  pints  of  water  into  an 
iron  pot  and  add  to  it  one  tablespoon  of  salt 
and  a  teaspoon  of  butter.  'WTien  the  water 
boils  add  the  corn-meal  mixture,  stirring  until 
it  is  smooth  and  well  mixed,  then  set  back  to 
boil  slowly  for  an  hotir  and  a  half.  Serve  hot 
with  sugar  and  cream  or  with  butter  and  syrup. 
The  mush  may  also  be  turned  into  a  wet  mold 
to  cool  and  set  for  frying.  The  old  name  of 
*' hasty  pudding"  was  given  the  mush  when 
It  was  boiled  for  a  hasty  meal,  in  fifteen 
minutes,  a  fact  which  caused  the  underdone 
meal  to  disagree  with  those  who  ate  the  mush. 

BAKED   MUSH 

fIDake  the  mush  for  baking  the  same  as  in 

28 


American  Indian  Corn  29 

the  preceding  recipe,  boiling  it  only  half  as 
long.  Tiirn  the  mush  into  a  shallow  buttered 
pan,  brush  over  with  butter,  and  bake  for  two 
hours  in  a  moderate  oven,  or  until  it  is  well 
browned  on  top.  Serve  hot  with  sugar  and 
cream,  syrup,  or  a  good  cheese  sauce. 

POLENTA 

(A  ritalienne) 

IThis  is  another  way  of  baking  the  mush. 
In  America,  where  the  polenta  meal  is  difficult 
to  procure,  com  meal  is  substituted.  Put  a 
quart  of  milk  in  a  saucepan  and  bring  it  to 
boiling  point,  then  sift  in  very  slowly  enough 
corn  meal  to  make  a  thick  porridge,  stir 
continually,  and  when  it  is  smooth  add  an 
ounce  of  Parmesan  cheese,  then  turn  the 
mixture  into  a  buttered  mold  and  bake  for 
twenty  minutes.  This  is  served  with  the  roast 
or  as  a  luncheon  dish.  Another  way  to  make 
the  dish,  perhaps  more  modern,  is  to  make  the 
mixture  the  same  as  for  mush,  then  turn  it 
into  a  wet  mold  to  set  and  harden.  When 
cold  it  is  cut  into  blocks  and  placed  in  a 
buttered  pudding  dish,  or  square  pan,  the 
blocks  being  set  apart  and  in  layers,  with 
Parmesan  cheese  sprinkled  thickly  between 
and  on  top,  then  baked  imtil  it  is  a  good  brown. 


30  American  Indian  Corn 

BAKED  VEGETABLE  MUSH 

flDake  the  mush  the  same  as  for  the  pre- 
ceding dish.  When  cold  cut  in  thin  sUces,  lay 
in  a  buttered  baking  dish,  dust  with  cheese, 
then  cover  with  a  layer  of  boiled  and  sliced 
carrots,  turnips,  white  potatoes,  and  minced 
onions.  Season  and  arrange  in  layers  imtil 
the  dish  is  full.  Bake  for  one  hour;  serve  as 
a  luncheon  dish,  with  a  smooth  tomato  sauce. 

BAKED  BERRY  MUSH 

flDake  the  mush  as  at  first  directed  and 
when  thoroughly  cooked  add  to  it  a  quart 
of  well-washed  and  picked-over  blueberries, 
and  a  cup  of  sugar,  then  turn  into  the  mold 
to  set.  Serve  with  crean^  and  sugar  for  a 
children's  luncheon  dish. 

FRIED  MUSH 

flDake  in  the  usual  way,  then  turn  into  a 
wet  mold  and  let  stand  to  cool  and  harden. 
Cut  in  meditmi  slices,  three  inches  long,  and 
fry  in  hot  fat.  When  a  delicate  brown  drain 
and  pile  on  a  hot  platter.  Serve  maple 
syrup  or  melted  butter  firmed  with  sugar  and 
flavored  with  a  little  lemon  jmce. 


American  Indian  Corn  31 

CRUMBED  FRIED   MUSH 

IKHhen  the  cold  mush  is  sliced,  roll  the 
slices  in  beaten  egg  then  in  fine  cracker  dust, 
fry  in  hot  fat.  This  may  be  served  with  a 
sweet  sauce  or  with  a  smooth  well-seasoned 
tomato  sauce. 

CROQUETTES  OF  MUSH 

flDake  one  quart  of  mush  and  when  it  is  cool 
add  a  heaping  tablespoon  of  butter,  a  half 
teaspoon  of  salt,  and  beat  In  two  eggs.  Mix 
thoroughly  and  when  cold  take  a  spoonful  at 
a  time,  roll  on  a  floured  board  and  shape 
into  croquettes  three  inches  long.  Dust  with 
pepper  and  salt  and  lay  on  a  floured  plate. 
When  ready  fry  in  deep  fat,  drain,  and  serve 
in  a  napkin  garnished  with  parsley.  To- 
mato sauce,  or  a  shrimp  sauce,  is  good  with 
the  croquettes. 

CORN-MEAL  FISH  CAKES 

fIDake  one  pound  of  corn-meal  mush  and 
when  cooked  add  to  it  a  piece  of  butter  the 
size  of  an  egg,  a  half  teaspoon  of  salt,  a  salt- 
spoon  of  pepper,  and  a  teaspoon  of  sugar. 
Take  two  pounds  of  cold  boiled  codfish;  skin, 


32  American  Indian  Corn 

bone,  and  flake  it  fine.  When  the  com  meal 
is  cool  enough  work  the  fish  in,  and  if  it  is  too 
stiff  add  a  little  cream.  Form  into  fish  cakes, 
dust  them  with  flour,  and  lay  on  a  floured  plate. 
A  beaten  egg  may  be  added  but  it  is  not  neces- 
sary. If  salt  dry  codfish  is  used  then  soak  it 
thoroughly,  and  let  it  simmer  at  the  back  of  the 
stove  for  an  hour  before  freeing  from  skin  and 
bone  and  flaking.  Fry  in  pork  fat  and  serve 
with  a  little  piece  of  fried  pork  on  top  of  each 
cake. 

PORK  SCRAPPLE 

Clean  thoroughly  and  boil  two  split  hogs* 
heads,  hocks,  and  feet;  boil  until  the  meat 
leaves  the  bones;  as  the  meat  cools,  take  out 
all  bones  and  when  cold  remove  the  grease. 
Remove  grease  from  the  water  they  were 
boiled  in.  Cut  the  meat  into  small  pieces 
and  return  it  to  the  liquor,  season  well,  and 
when  it  boils  stir  in  enough  of  a  mixture  of  one 
third  floitr  and  two  thirds  com  meal  to  thicken 
to  the  consistency  of  mush.  Stir  evenly  and 
boil  for  ten  minutes,  then  turn  into  a  wet  mold. 
When  cold  and  set,  slice  in  mediiun  slices  and 
fry  in  hot  fat  using  a  steel  or  iron  frying  pan. 
Drain  and  serve  hot  garnished  with  fried  apple 
rings. 


American  Indian  Corn  33 

BEEF   SCRAPPLE 

Select  a  three-pound  piece  of  bottom  round, 
plunge  it  into  boiling  water  and  boil  until 
tender ;  put  a  cheesecloth  bag  filled  with  soup 
herbs  and  vegetables  in  to  boil  with  the  meat 
for  flavoring  which  may  be  easily  withdrawn 
when  the  meat  is  done.  Take  the  meat  from 
the  liquor,  add  the  seasoning,  and  thicken 
with  a  pint  of  corn  meal  wet  with  a  little  water 
to  the  consistency  of  mush.  Cook  until  the 
meal  is  done,  then  add  the  meat  carefully 
minced,  cook  fifteen  minutes  longer,  then  turn 
into  a  long  loaf  pan,  that  has  been  wet  with 
cold  water,  to  firm.  When  needed  slice  and 
fry. 

CORN  MEAL  AND  CHICKEN  SAUSAGE 

CSiake  one  quart  of  corn-meal  mush.    Select 

one  short  plump  chicken  weighing  about  three 

and  a  half  poimds.     Clean  thoroughly  and  boil 

until  it  begins  to  be  tender.     Add  a  savory 

bouquet  of  herbs  and  a  bud  of  garlic  to  the  water 

as  it  boils.   When  cool  enough  to  handle  remove 

the  bones  and  chop  the  meat  very  fine.     Chop 

and  free  from  fiber  a  quarter  pound  of  suet,  add 

to  the  meat,  season  with  pepper,  salt,  a  little 

gage,  and  a  teaspoon  of  sugar.    Add  a  gener- 
3 


34  American  Indian  Corn 

ous  lump  of  butter  to  the  mush  and  mix  all 
together.  Mold  into  sausages,  roll  in  flour, 
and  fry  in  hot  pork  fat.  Or  soak  a  pig's  caul 
in  cold  water,  cut  it,  and  cover  the  sausages. 

CORN  MEAL  FOR  BREADING 

3for  breading  cutlets,  chops,  fish,  oysters,  or 
the  various  croquettes,  use  two  parts  corn  meal 
to  one  part  flour ;  dip  the  article  in  beaten  egg 
then  in  the  meal  mixture,  shaking  off  all  that 
does  not  adhere;  dust  with  pepper  and  salt 
and  fry  in  hot  fat. 

CORN-MEAL  GRUEL 

IFnto  one  pint  of  boiling  water  put  a  half 
teaspoon  of  salt.  Mix  two  tablespoons  of  sifted 
meal  with  cold  water  enough  to  make  a  smooth 
batter,  then  stir  It  into  the  hot  water.  Boil 
one  hour,  stirring  carefully.  If  too  thick  thin 
it  with  a  little  hot  milk.  This  is  very  delicate 
and  a  useful  beverage  for  the  invalid  tray 

VEGETARIAN  ROAST 

fBiake  one  pint  of  corn-meal  mush.  Drain 
and  mash  one  quart  of  freshly  cooked  peas, 
chop  very  fine  and  add  one  onion  and  one 


American  Indian  Corn  35 

green  pepper,  grind  a  half  cup  of  walnuts,  and 
mash  two  potatoes  smooth,  mix  all  together 
and  add  to  the  mush.  Season  with  a  good-sized 
lump  of  butter,  pepper,  salt,  and  a  few  drops 
of  kitchen  bouquet.  Mix  and  turn  into  a 
buttered  oblong  baking  pan  and  bake  for  an 
hour.  Turn  out  onto  a  hot  platter  and  serve 
with  brown  mushroom  sauce  or  tomato  sauce. 
This  is  an  excellent  meat  substitute. 

INDIAN  PEMMICAN 

H  famous  food  carried  by  Indians  when 
on  the  warpath,  all  tribes  following  the  same 
general  formula  in  the  making.  Dried  venison 
meat  pulverized,  boiled  and  chopped  vege- 
tables, including  wild  onions,  plenty  of  beans, 
wild  cherries,  crushed  stones  and  all,  and 
ground  com  meal — the  mass  being  cemented 
together  with  bear's  grease.  When  cold  and 
firm  it  was  sliced  down  like  bologna  and  was  a 
complete  meal,  a  balanced  ration. 

CORNLETTES 

pour  a  thin  layer  of  boiled  mush  into  a  but- 
tered shallow  pan,  cover  it  with  a  layer  of  cold 
boiled  fresh  ham  chopped  fine,  highly  seasoned, 
and  moistened  with  tart  apple  sauce  enough 


36  American  Indian  Corn 

to  make  a  spreading  paste.  Dot  with  lumps 
of  butter,  pour  on  another  layer  of  mush, 
and  set  aside  to  cool.  When  cool  cut  in  three- 
inch  squares,  lay  on  a  shallow  baking  pan, 
greased,  dust  with  grated  cheese,  and  put  in 
the  oven  long  enough  to  heat  and  brown  the 
cheese;  serve,  with  a  rich  brown  sauce,  for  a 
luncheon  or  dinner  dish. 


Hominy  Dishes 
COARSE  HOMINY 

IKHash  and  soak  overnight  one  cup  of  coarse 
hominy.  In  the  morning  boil  it  in  plenty  of 
water,  well  covered,  until  tender,  then  remove 
the  cover  and  let  the  water  evaporate.  Watch, 
and  stir  often  so  that  it  does  not  burn.  Stir 
in  a  heaping  tablespoon  of  butter  before  serv- 
ing. Hominy  requires  long,  slow,  and  steady 
cooking. 

FINE  HOMINY 

XKHash  and  soak,  overnight,  one  cup  of  fine 
hominy.  In  the  morning  drain  and  put  into 
a  double  boiler  with  two  and  a  half  cups  of 
milk,  cover,  and  boil  steadily  for  one  hour. 
Remove  cover  and  add  a  half  teaspoon  of 
salt  and  a  little  more  milk  if  it  seems  to  be 
boiling  too  dry.  The  hominy  may  be  served 
with  cream  and  sugar  for  a  breakfast  cereal, 
or  with  meat  in  place  of  rice.     It  may  also  be 

37 


38  American  Indian  Corn 

molded  and  cooled  to  serve  with  cream  and 
sugar,  or  crushed  fresh  fruit,  for  the  nursery 
luncheon. 


FRIED  COARSE  HOMINY 

ITake  a  cup,  or  more  if  needed,  of  cold  boiled 
hominy  and  place  it  in  a  pan  with  a  generous 
lump  of  butter.  When  the  hominy  is  hot 
and  begins  to  fry  keep  stirring  it  with  a  fork 
until  it  browns  lightly  then  turn  onto  a  hot 
dish.  Serve  with  sausages  or  pork  chops. 
If  this  is  to  be  served  by  itself  for  a  luncheon 
dish  then  add  to  it  a  cup  of  the  filling  pre- 
pared for  Spanish  omelettes  which  comes 
already  prepared  in  bottles.  If  it  is  not  at 
hand  then  saute  in  a  little  butter,  a  chopped 
onion,  pepper,  a  tomato,  and  a  few  chives, 
and  add,  when  they  are  done,  to  the  hominy. 
Season  with  pepper,  salt,  and  two  tablespoons 
of  olive  oil. 

FRIED  FINE  HOMINY 

Cut  the  molded  hominy  in  slices  and  fry 
the  same  as  mush.  Serve  with  sugar  and 
cream,  crushed  fruit  sauce,  or  a  brown  sauce, 
if  it  is  to  be  used  as  a  vegetable  dish. 


American  Indian  Corn  39 

BAKED   HOMINY 

^ake  one  cup  of  coarse  hominy  and  stir  into 
it  a  tablespoon  of  melted  butter,  a  saltspoon  of 
salt,  a  teaspoon  of  sugar,  two  beaten  fresh 
egg  yolks,  and  two  cups  of  milk,  added  slowly. 
When  the  mixture  is  smooth  add  the  stiffly 
beaten  egg  whites,  bake  a  delicate  brown  in 
a  buttered  pudding  dish.  Serve  with  roast 
pork. 

HOMINY  DATE  MOLD 

©oil  one  and  a  half  cups  of  hominy  until 
thoroughly  done,  add  a  teaspoon  of  salt,  and  a 
tablespoon  of  sugar.  Just  before  turning  into 
a  wet  mold  add  a  tablespoon  of  butter.  When 
cold  cut  in  quarter-inch  slices  and  lay  up  on  a 
buttered  baking  pan  in  alternate  layers  with 
pitted  and  halved  dates,  bread  crumbs,  pepper, 
salt,  grated  cheese,  and  butter ;  turn  over  all  a 
quarter  cup  of  cream  and  cook  in  the  oven 
covered  for  twenty  minutes  and  then  uncover 
and  delicately  brown.  Serve  plain  or  with  a 
good  creamy  cheese  sauce.  This  is  made  by  the 
addition  of  a  half  cup  of  grated  cheese  to  two 
cups  of  cream  sauce,  add  the  juice  of  an  onion, 
paprika,  a  level  teaspoon  of  sugar,  and  a  tea- 
spoon of  chopped  tarragon  leaves. 


40  American  Indian  Corn 

HOMINY  CROQUETTES 

Mlork  to  a  smooth  paste  one  large  cup  of 
cold,  fine,  boiled  hominy,  one  tablespoon  of 
soft  butter,  and  a  half  cup  of  rich  milk.  Warm 
the  mixture,  then  add  a  teaspoon  of  sugar  and 
the  yolks  of  two  eggs.  Stir  over  the  fire  until 
it  thickens,  then  set  aside  to  cool.  When  cold, 
flour  the  hands  and  form  it  into  oblong  balls 
and  dip  into  the  white  of  the  eggj  to  which  have 
been  added  a  tablespoon  of  water  and  a  pinch 
of  salt ;  roll  in  fine  crumbs  and  fry  in  hot  oil  or 
fat.  Drain,  and  serve  on  a  hot  platter  with 
any  sauce  liked. 

HOMINY  MUFFINS 

!Beat  two  cups  of  cold,  boiled,  fine  hominy 
smooth,  add  three  cups  of  sweet  milk,  yolks  of 
three  eggs,  well  beaten,  a  quarter  cup  of  melted 
butter,  two  teaspoons  of  salt,  two  tablespoons 
of  sugar,  two  teaspoons  of  baking  powder 
sifted  with  a  cup  and  a  half  of  flour.  Mix 
thoroughly,  then  add  the  beaten  whites  of  the 
eggs,  pour  into  greased  iron  gem  pans,  and 
bake. 

HOMINY  WAFFLES 

tTake  one  cup  of  warm,  fine  hominy  and 
add  to  it  one  cup  of  milk,  a  half  teaspoon  of 


American  Indian  Corn  41 

salt,  two  beaten  eggs,  one  teavSpoon  of  baking 
powder,  and  enough  flour  to  make  a  thin 
batter.  Bake  in  a  hot  well -greased  waffle  iron. 
Serve  with  fresh  butter  and  hot  honey. 

HOMINY  FRITTERS 

flDake  a  smooth  fritter  batter  of  one  pint 
of  cold,  boiled,  fine  hominy,  a  half  cup  of  cream, 
two  tablespoons  of  cornstarch  dissolved  in  a 
little  bit  of  milk,  two  well-beaten  eggs,  a  tea- 
spoon of  baking  powder  mixed  in  a  tablespoon 
of  flour  and  a  saltspoon  of  salt.  If  the  hominy 
is  freshly  cooked  and  still  warm  it  will  mix 
more  readily;  if  cold  it  can  be  warmed  by 
standing  a  few  minutes  in  boiling  water,  then 
drain  it  and  mash  smooth  before  mixing  it 
with  the  other  ingredients. 

HOMINY  PUDDING 

3Boil  three  quarters  of  a  cup  of  fine  hominy 
in  a  pint  and  a  half  of  rich  milk.  Beat  two 
eggs  and  add  to  them  a  cup  of  sugar,  a  tea- 
spoon of  rose  extract,  and  a  tablespoon  of 
melted  butter.  Pour  in  the  hominy,  stir  well, 
turn  into  a  buttered  pudding  dish  and  bake 
in  a  hot  oven  twenty  minutes. 


42  American  Indian  Corn 

MADEIRA  MILHO 

Soak  nine  ounces  of  fine  hominy  overnight. 
In  the  morning  drain  and  put  in  a  saucepan 
with  three  pints  of  clear  water;  stir  until  it 
boils,  then  add  a  level  teaspoon  of  salt  and 
two  ounces  of  beef  drippings.  Boil,  stirring 
often,  for  one  hour.  Eat  like  porridge,  with 
butter  and  sugar  or  honey  and  cream. 

HAM  HOMINY  FRITTERS 

flDix  two  cups  of  cold,  boiled  hominy  with 
two  beaten  eggs,  a  half  cup  of  milk,  a  salt- 
spoon  of  salt,  a  teaspoon  of  baking  powder 
added  to  a  cup  and  a  half  of  flour,  and  a  half 
cup  of  cold  boiled  ham  chopped,  fine.  Beat 
well  and  drop  by  spoonfuls  into  hot  fat. 
Drain,  and  serve  in  a  napkin  garnished  with 
parsley  and  lemon  quarters.  A  teaspoon  of 
sugar  in  the  batter  is  an  addition  to  the  flavor, 
and  aids  in  browning  the  fritters. 

SAMP 

ZEhis  is  com  that  has  been  prepared  by 
being  boiled  in  lye,  or  wood  ashes,  to  remove  the 
outer  skin ;  it  is  then  thoroughly  washed  before 
cooking.     It  is  used  almost  the  same  as  rice, 


American  Indian  Corn  43 

though  it  reqtdres  longer  cooking  and  is  very 
hearty.  The  Indians  added  it  to  their  veni- 
son stew,  cooked  it  in  maple  syrup,  or  made 
it  into  a  thin  gruel  for  a  nourishing  drink. 
They  also  mixed  it  with  meal  made  of  parched 
com  and  cooked  it  in  water  and  a  little  maple 
syrup  for  a  sort  of  coffee. 


1917  War  Coffee 

fBMx  together,  thoroughly  rubbing  with  the 
hands  until  the  mixture  resembles  soft  brown 
sugar,  two  quarts  of  bran,  one  quart  of  corn 
meal,  and  a  large  cup  of  molasses.  Spread  the 
mixture  in  a  large  dripping  pan,  brown  it  in  a 
slow  oven,  stirring  it  often  with  a  long -handled 
spoon  until  it  is  a  rich  seal  brown.  Do  not 
let  it  scorch  or  birrn.  When  done,  put  in  jars 
like  regular  coffee.  In  making  the  coffee  allow 
two  tablespoonfuls  to  one  and  a  half  cups 
of  clear  water  to  a  person.  Boil  the  coffee 
well  and  serve  hot  milk  or  cream  with  it. 
For  those  who  have  corn  in  their  garden  they 
may  dry  the  corn  in  the  oven  carefully,  shuck 
and  grind  it  in  a  coffee  mill  very  easily. 

PINOLE 

(The  Mexican  Indians  roasted  corn,  then 
ground  it  into  coarse  meal  which  they  mixed 
with  sugar  and  spices,  then  stirred  in  water 
enough  to  make  it  like  a  gruel.  It  was  a  fav- 
orite and  nutritious  drink. 

44 


Corn  Breads  and  Mufl&ns 

CORN  BREAD 

Two  cups  Indian,  one  cup  wheat, 
One  cup  sour  milk,  one  cup  sweet, 
One  good  egg  that  well  you  beat. 
Half  cup  molasses,  too; 
Half  cup  sugar  add  thereto, 
With  one  spoon  of  butter  new. 
Salt  and  soda  each  a  teaspoon; 
Mix  up  quick  and  bake  it  soon. 
Then  you'll  have  corn  bread  complete, 
Best  of  all  corn  bread  you  meet. 
It  will  make  your  boy's  eyes  shine. 
If  he's  like  that  boy  of  mine. 
If  you  have  a  dozen  boys 
To  increase  your  household  joys, 
Double  then  this  rule  I  should, 
And  you'll  have  two  corn  cakes  good. 
When  you've  nothing  else  for  tea 
This  the  very  thing  will  be. 
All  the  men  that  I  have  seen 
Say  it  is  of  all  cakes  queen. 
Good  enough  for  any  king. 
That  a  husband  home  can  bring. 
Warming  up  the  human  stove, 
45 


46  American  Indian  Corn 

Cheering  up  the  hearts  you  love; 

And  only  Tyndall  can  explain 

The  links  between  corn  bread  and  brain. 

Get  a  husband  what  he  likes 

And  save  a  hundred  household  strikes. 

Old  Rhymes. 


Government  War  Bread  1917 

®ne  fourth  whole  wheat  flotir,  one  fourth 
rye  flour,  one  fourth  white  flour,  one  fourth 
corn  meal,  a  tablespoon  of  salt,  a  yeast  cake 
dissolved  in  cold  water,  and  enough  tepid 
water  to  make  a  meditmi  dough,  not  too  soft. 
Knead  thoroughly,  let  rise  until  light,  put  in 
greased  pans,  and  let  rise  to  fill  the  pans 
three  quarters  full,  then  bake  in  a  steady 
oven  from  forty  minutes  to  an  hour.  Try 
with  a  broom  splint. 

A  second  formula  calls  for  one  third  wheat 
flour,  one  third  whole  wheat  flour,  and  one 
third  com  meal  and  rye  flour  mixed.  Salt, 
yeast,  and  water  as  for  first  formula. 

CORN  LOAF  BREAD 

Hdd  to  one  quart  of  flour  two  teaspoons  of 
baking  powder,  a  teaspoon  of  salt,  and  a  quart 
of  com  meal.  Mix  thoroughly,  then  add  the 
yolks  of  two  eggs  beaten  light,  two  table- 
spoons of  molasses  mixed  in  a  quart  of  sweet 

47 


48  American  Indian  Corn 

milk,  and  last  of  all  fold  in  the  beaten  egg 
whites.  Pour  into  a  buttered  bread  pan  and 
bake  thirty  to  forty  minutes  in  an  even  oven. 

QUICK  CORN  BREAD 

flDix  two  heaping  cups  of  corn  meal  with 
one  cup  of  flour,  one  teaspoon  of  baking 
powder,  one  tablespoon  of  sugar,  and  one 
teaspoon  of  salt.  Beat  three  egg  yolks  and 
add  to  two  and  a  half  cups  of  milk,  mix  well, 
and  add  a  tablespoon  of  melted  butter  and  the 
beaten  egg  whites.  Bake  in  buttered  mold 
and  serve  hot. 

NEW  ORLEANS  RECIPE 

Sift  together  one  and  a  half  pints  of  corn 
meal,  a  half  pint  of  flour,  a  tablespoon  of 
sugar,  a  teaspoon  of  salt,  and  two  heaping 
tablespoons  of  baking  powder.  Add  two  beat- 
en eggs,  one  and  a  quarter  pints  of  milk,  and 
a  tablespoon  of  melted  lard.  Mix  to  a  meditim 
batter,  pour  into  a  square  shallow  pan,  and 
bake  for  thirty  minutes  in  a  brisk  oven. 

SOUR  MILK  CORN  BREAD 

fIDix  two  teaspoons  of  salt  with  two  cups  of 
corn  meal.     Dissolve  a  teaspoon  of   bi-car- 


American  Indian  Corn  49 

bonate  of  soda  m  a  quart  of  sotir  milk,  add 
two  beaten  eggs  and  a  tablespoon  of  melted 
lard,  beat  all  together,  and  add  enough  corn 
meal  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Beat  very 
thoroughly  and  turn  into  a  buttered  baking 
pan.     Bake  thirty  minutes. 

RICE   CORN  BREAD 

fIDix  two  cups  of  com  meal  and  one  cup  of 
freshly  boiled  rice.  Add  two  level  teaspoons 
of  salt  and  one  of  sugar.  Dissolve  one 
teaspoon  of  bi-carbonate  of  soda  in  a  quart  of 
sour  milk,  pour  in  enough  of  the  milk  to  make 
a  stiff  batter,  add  two  beaten  eggs,  then  the 
rest  of  the  milk.  Beat  thoroughly  and  then 
add  a  tablespoon  of  melted  butter.  Bake  in 
a  shallow  buttered  pan  as  soon  as  it  is  mixed ; 
do  not  let  it  stand. 

SCALDED   MEAL  BREAD 

Hdd  to  one  pint  of  boiling  water  a  teaspoon 
of  salt  and  a  heaping  tablespoon  of  butter, 
lard,  good  beef  drippings,  or  chicken  fat.  A 
reputable  butter  substitute  also  may  be  used. 
Pour  the  boiling  mixture  into  one  pint  of  corn 
meal  to  scald  it,  then  set  it  aside  to  cool. 
Beat  two  eggs  and  add  them  to  a  pint  of  sweet 
milk ;  stir  into  the  cool  batter  and  turn  into  a 


50  American  Indian  Corn 

shallow  well  greased  pan.  Bake  in  a  hot 
oven  thirty-five  minutes.  It  is  a  good  idea  to 
warm  the  pan  before  turning  in  the  mixture, 
especially  in  cold  weather. 

INDIAN  ASH   CAKE 

flDake  a  soft  dough  of  one  quart  of  scalded 
corn  meal,  a  teaspoon  of  salt,  a  tablespoon 
of  melted  fat,  and  cold  water.  Mold  the 
dough  into  oblong  cakes  and  lay,  wrapped  in 
cabbage  or  grape  leaves,  on  hot  ashes,  or  imder 
a  gas  flame.  When  done  strip  off  the  leaves 
and  eat  the  cake  hot  with  fresh  butter. 

SOUTHERN  HOECAKE 

Bn  early  days  this  bread,  made  the  same 
as  ash  cake,  was  baked  on  a  clean,  hot,  hoe 
blade,  or  on  a  damp  shingle  before  a  hot  open 
fire. 

STEAMED   CORN  BREAD 

flDix  three  cups  of  corn  meal  with  three  cups 
of  wheat  flour,  a  teaspoon  of  salt,  and  two 
teaspoons  of  baking  powder.  Pour  in  a 
quart  of  sweet  milk  and  a  cup  of  warm  mo- 
lasses. Mix  well  and  pour  into  a  buttered 
mold,  then  steam  for  four  hours.  The  mold 
should  be  only  three  quarters  full,  to  allow 
for  swelling,  and  covered  tightly. 


American  Indian  Corn  51 

INDIAN  JOURNEY   CAKE 

ZChe  natives  made  this  cake  of  an  equal 
quantity  of  wild  rice  and  pounded  corn  meal, 
flavored  with  salt,  and  mixed  with  water.  It 
was  shaped  into  oblong  balls  and  baked  in 
the  hot  embers.  It  was  carried  on  journeys,  or 
in  war  times,  hence  the  name,  and  was 
considered  very  nourishing.  It  was  the  fore- 
runner of  the  now  familiar  ''Johnny'*  cake. 

y    NEW  ENGLAND  JOHNNY   CAKE 

^ift  together  one  pint  of  corn  meal,  one 
pint  of  wheat  flour,  two  teaspoons  of  baking 
powder,  a  half  teaspoon  of  salt,  and  a  half  cup 
of  sugar.  Work  in  a  tablespoon  of  lard,  add 
three  beaten  eggs,  and  a  pint  and  a  quarter 
of  milk.  Pour  into  shallow  buttered  pans 
and  bake  forty-five  minutes. 

INDIAN  NOCAKE 

3for  this  delicacy  the  natives  used  parched 
corn,  pounded  to  meal,  with  salt,  a  little 
maple  sugar  melted,  and  enough  water  to  make 
a  dough.  The  cakes  were  shaped  and  then 
baked  like  ash  cakes.  Made  by  the  Dakota 
Indians. 


52  American  Indian  Corn 

MASSACHUSETTS  INDIAN  CAKE 

fIDix  three  cups  of  corn  meal,  one  cup  of 
flour,  and  a  teaspoon  of  salt.  Dissolve  one 
teaspoon  of  soda  in  a  cup  of  sour  milk,  add 
this  with  a  cup  of  tepid  molasses  and  mix 
thoroughly.  Turn  into  a  moderately  heated 
Dutch  oven  (the  old-fashioned  way)  or  into 
a  shallow  buttered  pan  to  bake. 

PIKI  BREAD 

C^he  Hopi  Indians  are  expert  in  the  making 
of  parchment  bread.  A  batter  of  corn  meal 
and  water  is  made  and  seasoned  with  salt. 
It  is  thrown  by  a  dexterous  motion  of  the  hand 
onto  a  superheated  stone  and  cooked  quickly, 
without  turning,  like  a  thin  pancake,  and  is 
then  rolled  like  parchment,  or  packed  like  figs, 
one  piece  overlapping  the  other.  The  bread 
keeps  for  years;  made  of  black,  red,  yellow, 
or  white  corn  it  keeps  the  color,  the  white 
often  being  dyed  green  or  a  deep  orange  with 
vegetable  dyes. 

SPONGE  CORN  CAKE 

Bring  one  quart  of  milk  to  boiling  point 
and  pour  it  on  one  pint  of  com  meal ;  add  a 
lump  of    butter  and  a  heaping  teaspoon  of 


American  Indian  Corn  53 

salt.  Set  the  mixt tire  away  overnight ;  in  the 
morning  beat  Hght,  add  two  beaten  eggs,  and 
pour  the  nuxture  into  buttered  earthen  plates. 
Bake  thirty  minutes. 

RAISIN   CORN  BREAD 

flDix  twelve  ounces  of  seeded  and  coarsely 
chopped  raisins  with  three  cups  of  corn  meal, 
one  and  a  half  cups  of  rye  flour,  one  and  a 
half  cups  of  white  flour,  a  teaspoon  of  salt,  and 
three  heaping  teaspoons  of  baking  powder. 
Mix  and  add  a  cup  of  molasses  and  enough 
milk  to  make  the  dough  soft.  Pour  into  a  well- 
buttered  mold,  cover,  and  steam  steadily  for 
full  three  hours.  Do  not  fill  the  mold  full 
but  leave  room  for  swelling.     Serve  hot. 

CORN  PONE 

2)issolve  two  teaspoons  of  salt  in  a  quart 
of  water,  stir  into  it  enough  corn  meal  to  make 
a  stiff  dough.  Mold  the  dough  into  cakes  the 
size  and  shape  of  fish  cakes.  Lay  the  cakes  in 
a  Dutch  oven,  or  buttered  baking  pan,  and 
bake  thirty  minutes.  Separate  the  cakes  so 
they  do  not  touch  one  another  so  they  may 
brown  on  all  sides. 

Worcester   derives   the   name   pone   from 


54  American  Indian  Corn 

paiime,  which  he  states  is  an  Indian  word; 
Webster's  spelling  is  "pone"  from  the  Latin 
"  ponnes  "  referring  to  its  roundish  shape,  but  it 
is  more  probable  that  its  derivation  is  from 
the  method  of  making  it  between  the  palms 
of  the  hands,  hence  ''palm  bread,"  "patim 
bread,"  "pone  bread,"  paimi  being  a  well 
known  corruption  of  palm. 

VIRGINIA  CORN  BREAD 

Cream  together  two  tablespoons  of p  but- 
ter and  two  tablespoons  of  sugar.  Mix  one 
cup  of  flour,  a  heaping  cup  of  corn  meal,  a 
half  teaspoon  of  salt,  and  two  heaping  table- 
spoons of  baking  powder.  Add  the  beaten 
yolks  of  two  eggs  to  the  butter  mixture,  then 
add  the  dry  ingredients  with  a  cup  of  sweet 
milk.  Beat  all  thoroughly,  then  add  the 
beaten  egg  whites.  Pour  into  a  well-buttered, 
lightly  floured,  baking  pan,  and  bake  in  a  hot 
oven  full  fifteen  minutes.  Break  in  pieces 
and  serve  hot.  Cutting  with  a  knife  makes  it 
heavy  and  soggy. 

IRISH  CORN  BREAD 

flDake  a  batter  of  a  cup  of  corn  meal  and 
water,  when  it  boils  add  a  level  teaspoon  of 
salt,  boil  a  half  hoiir.     Cool,  and  then  add  a 


American  Indian  Corn  55 

quarter  yeast  cake  dissolved  in  water  and  as 
much  flour  as  there  is  meal.  Let  rise,  then 
bake  in  a  buttered  pan.  If  desired  a  little 
sugar  may  be  added. 

BOSTON  BROWN   BREAD 

Sift  one  pint  of  corn  meal,  a  half  pint  of 
rye  flour,  a  half  pint  of  wheat  flour,  a  teaspoon 
of  salt,  a  tablespoon  of  brown  sugar,  and  two 
teaspoons  of  baking  powder  together.  Have 
ready  two  good-sized  potatoes  boiled,  mashed, 
and  thinned  a  little  with  water ;  when  cold  add 
to  the  other  ingredients  and  mix  to  a  batter. 
Pour  into  a  well-buttered  mold,  cover,  and  put 
in  a  kettle  of  hot  water.  Let  it  boil  one  full 
hour,  then  remove  the  cover  and  put  in  the 
oven.  Bake  about  three  quarters  of  an  hour 
if  the  oven  is  hot,  longer  if  it  is  only  medium. 
There  are  several  ways  of  making  the  bread, 
the  old  way  being  to  bake  it  all  night  with  the 
celebrated  beans,  but  this  recipe  is  the  simplest 
for  home  use. 

BANNOCKS 

Scald  two  cups  of  corn  meal  with  just 
enough  boiling  water  to  moisten  it,  cover,  and 
let  stand  a  half  hour.  Add  four  beaten  eggs, 
two  cups  of  milk,  a  teaspoon  of  salt,  two  table- 


56  American  Indian  Corn 

spoons  of  melted  butter,  a  cup  of  flour,  and  a 
teaspoon  of  baking  powder.  Bake  in  greased 
shallow  pans  in  a  hot  oven. 


SLAPPERS 

Ipotir  on  slowly  enough  boiling  water  to 
make  a  thin  batter  of  two  cups  of  com  meal, 
a  half  teaspoon  of  salt,  and  two  tablespoons  of 
butter.  Cover  and  let  stand  overnight.  In 
the  morning  add  three  beaten  eggs,  one  cup  of 
milk,  and  a  cup  of  flour  in  which  two  teaspoons 
of  baking  powder  have  been  mixed.  Beat  well 
and  drop  by  spoonfuls  onto  a  hot  greased  grid- 
dle. Brown  on  both  sides  like  a  thick  pancake. 
These  are  Southern  favorites. 

CORN  MUSH  BREAD 

flDix  with  one  quart  of  hot  corn-meal  mush, 
one  quart  of  wheat  flour  and  one  quart  of 
graham  flour.  When  cool  add  one  quart  of 
raised  bread  sponge,  a  half  cup  of  molasses,  a 
teaspoon  of  salt,  and  a  half  teaspoon  of  baking 
powder.  Mix  well  and  add  a  little  flour  in 
kneading  the  dough,  shape  into  brick-shaped 
loaves,  let  rise  in  the  pans,  and  bake  from  an 
hour  to  an  hour  and  a  half. 


American  Indian  Corn  57 

CUSTARD   CORN  BREAD 

3Beat  a  quarter  cup  of  sugar  with  two  eggs. 
Sift  a  quarter  cup  of  flour,  a  teaspoon  of  salt, 
and  a  teaspoon  of  soda  into  one  and  a  third  cups 
of  com  meal.  Mix  all  together.  Melt  two 
heaping  tablespoons  of  butter  in  a  deep  baking 
pan,  using  plenty  around  the  sides.  Pour 
in  the  batter,  then  add  without  stirring  a  cup 
of  cream;  bake  twenty  to  thirty  minutes. 
When  cooked  there  will  be  a  layer  of  custard 
on  top  or  through  the  center  of  the  cake. 

VIRGINIA  SPOON  BREAD 

!85eat  the  yolks  of  six  eggs  with  a  tablespoon 
of  sugar,  a  teaspoon  of  salt,  a  half  cup  of  boiled 
cracked  wheat,  a  cup  of  sifted  com  meal,  two 
teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  three  cups  of 
sweet  milk  and  one  of  buttermilk.  Beat  the 
egg  whites  stiff  and  fold  in  last.  Melt  three 
tablespoons  of  butter  in  a  baking  dish  and 
pour  in  the  batter.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 
This  is  a  very  delicate  bread  and  is  served  with 
a  spoon  from  the  pan  it  is  cooked  in,  not  cut 
with  a  knife. 

HEALTH  BREAD 

Soak  one  pint  of  corn  meal  in  a  pint  of  sour 


58  American  Indian  Corn 

milk  for  two  hours;  if  it  takes  up  all  the  milk 
add  a  little  more.  Stir  in,  when  ready  to  bake, 
a  teaspoon  of  salt,  a  tablespoon  of  vege- 
table or  olive  oil,  and  a  level  teaspoon  of  bi- 
carbonate of  soda  dissolved  in  a  little  hot 
water.  Beat  well  and  sift  in  enough  whole 
wheat  flotir  to  thicken  slightly.  Pour  in 
shallow  buttered  pan  and  bake  forty  minutes 
in  a  brisk  oven. 

PRIZE  HEALTH  BREAD 

fIDix  two  level  cups  of  health  bran,  one  cup 
of  corn  meal,  one  cup  of  cream  of  wheat,  and 
one  cup  of  flour,  sifted,  with  two  level  tea- 
spoons of  baking  powder,  and  a  half  teaspoon 
of  salt.  Mix  one  cup  of  New  Orleans  molasses 
with  three  cups  of  rich  milk ;  beat  all  into  a 
smooth  batter,  and  cook  in  a  well-greased 
mold,  steaming,  well  covered,  for  eight  hours. 
The  weight  of  the  loaf  when  done  is  three  and 
a  half  pounds. 

CORN-MEAL  SCONES 

Sift  together  one  quart  of  fine  com  meal, 
two  teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  a  half  tea- 
spoon of  salt,  and  a  teaspoon  of  sugar.  Rub 
in  a  heaping  tablespoon  of  flotir,  two  beaten 
eggs,  almost  a  full  pint  of  milk,  and  enough 


American  Indian  Corn  59 

flour  to  make  a  kneading  dough.  Put  on  a 
floured  board,  knead  lightly,  roll  out  with  a 
pin  an  eighth  of  an  inch  thick,  and  after  cutting 
into  three-inch  squares  fold  over  three  cornered 
and  bake  on  a  hot  greased  griddle,  browning  on 
both  sides.  If  the  scones  are  not  careftilly 
cooked  they  are  uninviting  and  raw  tasting;  to 
avoid  this  many  cooks  scald  the  meal  with  the 
milk  heated  to  boiling  point  and  after  it  has 
cooled  off  add  the  rest  of  the  ingredients. 

APPLE  JOHNNY  CAKE 

fDix  two  cups  of  yellow  com  meal  with  half 
a  cup  of  sugar,  a  saltspoon  of  salt,  and  a 
teaspoon  of  cream  of  tartar.  Dissolve  a  half 
teaspoon  of  bi-carbonate  of  soda  in  a  cup  and 
a  half  of  milk,  stir  in  three  tart  apples  pared, 
cored,  and  chopped  fine.  Beat  well  and  bake 
in  a  well-buttered  shallow  pan  for  thirty-five 
minutes. 

CAMP  CORN  BREAD 

fIDix  two  cups  of  corn  meal,  two  cups  of 
flour,  a  teaspoon  of  salt,  two  heaping  teaspoons 
of  baking  powder,  a  teaspoon  of  sugar,  two 
tablespoons  of  shortening,  two  tablespoons  of 
egg  powder,  a  half  cup  of  condensed  or  evapo- 
rated milk,  and  one  and  a  half  cups  of  water. 


6o  American  Indian  Corn 

Beat  well,  pour  in  a  well -greased  pan,  and  bake 
for  forty-five  minutes.  When  serving  break 
the  bread  or  cut  with  a  hot  sharp  knife. 

CORN  SOUP  STICKS 

SBeat  together  one  cup  of  com  meal,  three 
quarters  of  a  cup  of  flour,  three  teaspoons  of 
baking  powder,  and  a  half  teaspoon  of  salt. 
Mix  with  a  half  cup  of  hot,  boiled,  fine  hominy, 
a  quarter  cup  of  soft  butter,  one  cup  of  milk, 
and  one  egg.  Beat  all  with  the  dry  ingredi- 
ents and  bake  in  buttered  bread  stick  pans 
twenty  minutes. 

RICE   CORN  BREAD 

Jpour  one  cup  of  freshly  boiled  rice  over  two 
cups  of  sifted  white  corn  meal,  add  a  table- 
spoon of  soft  butter,  three  beaten  eggs,  a  tea- 
spoon of  salt,  and  milk  enough  to  make  a 
stiff  batter.  Beat  well  and  turn  into  shallow 
buttered  pans  to  bake  in  a  qtiick  oven. 

CRACKLING  BREAD 

pour  enough  boiling  water  over  a  quart  of 
yellow  com  meal  to  moisten  it,  add  two  tea- 
spoons of  salt,  and  set  aside  to  cool.     When 


American  Indian  Corn  6i 

cool  enough  to  handle,  mix  in  a  pint  of  crack- 
lings (crumbs  left  after  trying  out  leaf  lard), 
and  shape  into  oblong  cakes.  Bake  in  lightly 
buttered  pans  for  twenty-five  minutes.  This 
makes  a  rich  breakfast  or  limcheon  cake  on  a 
cold  day. 

COLONIAL    RYE    AND    INDLA.N    BREAD 

Scald  two  quarts  of  corn  meal  with  just 
enough  boiling  water  to  moisten  it,  but  not 
make  a  batter.  Cover  and  let  it  stand  and 
cool.  Add  two  teaspoons  of  salt,  one  teaspoon 
of  soda,  an  yeast  cake  dissolved  in  a  little  cold 
water,  and  a  half  cup  of  molasses.  Pour  in 
alternately  a  quart  of  rye  flour  and  warm 
water  to  make  a  dough  heavy  to  stir  with  a 
spoon.  Let  rise  overnight,  put  in  deep  bread 
pan  in  the  morning,  let  stand  thirty  minutes, 
then  bake  four  hours  in  a  medium  oven. 

STEAMED  BOSTON  BROWN  BREAD 

fIDix  two  cups  of  corn  meal,  one  cup  of  rye 
meal,  one  cup  of  wheat  flour,  a  saltspoon  of 
salt,  and  two  heaping  teaspoons  of  baking 
powder.  Add  a  cup  and  a  half  of  warm 
molasses,  a  teaspoon  of  soda  dissolved  in  a 
little  water,  and  a  quart  of  sweet  milk.     Beat 


62  ''American  Indian  Corn 

all  thoroughly,  pour  into  a  greased  mold,  and 
steam  in  boiling  water,  well  covered,  for  fotir 
hours. 

SWEET  BROWN  BREAD 

fiDix  one  quart  of  rye  flour,  two  quarts  of 
com  meal,  one  pint  of  Graham  flotir,  and  a 
teaspoon  of  salt  together.  Add  a  half  pint  of 
potato  yeast,  a  half  cup  of  molasses,  and  a 
half  cup  of  seeded  raisins.  Mix  with  warm 
water  to  as  stiff  a  dough  as  can  be  handled  with 
a  spoon.  Let  rise  six  hours,  and  bake  in  but- 
tered bread  tins  five  hours,  or  six,  if  oven  is 
slow. 

CORN-MEAL  GINGER  BREAD 

3i6eat  to  a  cream  one  cup  of  butter,  one  cup 
of  brown  sugar,  one  tablespoon  of  ground 
ginger,  one  teaspoon  of  cinnamon,  and  the 
grated  rind  of  an  orange.  Mix  two  cups  each 
of  com  meal  and  flour,  add  half  the  flour,  and 
three  beaten  eggs.  Stir  in  gradually  three  gills 
of  molasses  and  a  quarter  cup  of  milk.  Then 
add  three  more  beaten  eggs  and  the  rest  of  the 
flour,  beat  thoroughly,  and  add  a  teaspoon  of 
soda  dissolved  in  hot  water.  Pour  into  but- 
tered pans  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for 
an  hour. 


American  Indian  Corn  63 

INDIAN  MEAL  DOUGHNUTS 

)otir  three  quarters  of  a  cup  of  boiling  milk 
over  one  and  a  half  cups  of  fine  corn  meal,  stir, 
and  allow  it  to  cool.  Add  a  half  cup  of  soft 
butter,  three  quarters  of  a  cup  of  sugar,  a 
teaspoon  of  cinnamon,  a  half  of  a  grated  nut- 
meg, two  beaten  eggs,  and  a  cup  of  flour  in 
which  there  are  two  teaspoons  of  baking 
powder.  Work  the  dough  smooth,  roll  on 
the  board  three  quarters  of  an  inch  thick,  and 
fry  in  hot  lard.     Dust  with  powdered  sugar. 

APPLE   CORN  BREAD 

flDix  together  two  cups  of  white  corn  meal, 
two  tablespoons  of  sugar,  a  half  teaspoon  of 
salt,  a  teaspoon  of  cream  of  tartar,  and  a 
teaspoon  of  bi-carbonate  of  soda.  Add  one 
and  a  half  cups  of  milk ;  beat  well  and  pour  into 
a  shallow  buttered  pan.  Have  ready  three 
tart  apples,  pared  and  sliced  thin;  arrange 
them  as  for  baker's  apple  cake;  dust  with  two 
tablespoons  of  sugar  blended  with  a  teaspoon 
of  cinnamon.     Bake  for  thirty-five  minutes. 

NEW  ENGLAND  PUMPKIN  CORN  BREAD 

fHMx  two  and  a  half  quarts  of  corn  flour 
with  one  and  a  half  quarts  of  wheat  flour,  two 


64  American  Indian  Corn 

teaspoons  of  salt,  two  tablespoons  of  sugar,  a 
tablespoon  of  soft  butter,  a  pint  of  stewed  and 
mashed  pumpkin,  an  yeast  cake  dissolved  in 
cold  water,  and  enough  lukewarm  water 
added  slowly  to  make  a  kneading  dough. 
Turn  onto  the  board,  knead  well,  and  set  to 
rise.  When  light,  mold  into  loaves  and  put 
into  greased  pans,  and  when  dough  has  risen 
until  they  are  three  quarters  full,  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven.  In  the  South  this  same 
recipe  is  used  with  mashed  sweet  potato  in- 
stead of  the  pumpkin. 

CORN  AND  GLUTEN  BREAD 

flDix  three  quarters  of  a  cup  of  gluten  flour, 
three  teaspoons  of  salt,  one  tablespoon  of 
sugar,  two  tablespoons  of  soft  butter,  and  half 
an  yeast  cake  dissolved  in  a  quarter  cup  of  luke- 
warm water.  Have  ready  two  and  a  half  cups 
of  corn  meal  that  has  been  warmed  then 
scalded  in  one  and  a  half  cups  of  boiling 
water  and  cooled.  Mix  all  together  thor- 
oughly and  ttu'n,  after  kneading,  into  a  greased 
bread  pan;  when  risen  until  the  pan  is  fully 
three  quarters  filled,  bake  in  a  steady  oven. 

ZUNI  AND  WESTERN  APACHE  BREAD 

flDix  one  cup  of  white  meal  with  one  cup  of 


American  Indian  Corn  65 

yellow  meal,  one  teaspoon  of  salt  and  a  salt 
spoon  (level)  of  red  pepper,  one  cup  of  chopped 
butter,  or  half  cup  of  bacon  grease,  and  one 
cup  of  water.  Mold  into  small  rolls  like 
sausages ;  roll  them  in  greased  paper,  and  bake 
one  hour.  The  Indians  roll  them  in  com 
husks  and  they  are  nicer  done  in  that  way. 

SAVORY  CORN  BISCUIT 

n^um  one  cup  of  yellow  com  meal  onto  a 
shallow  pan  and  brown  carefully  in  the  oven, 
stirring  and  watching  carefully  that  it  does  not 
burn.  Take  three  quarters  of  a  cup  of  peanut 
butter  and  add  to  it  three  quarters  of  a  cup  of 
boiling  water,  stir  smooth,  add  two  tea- 
spoons of  salt  and  a  half  cup  of  hot  cream. 
Turn  into  the  meal,  mix,  half  fill  buttered 
muffin  pans,  and  bake.  Or  drop  from  the 
spoon  onto  a  shallow  greased  pan  and  make 
into  small  cakes. 

CORN-MEAL  ENVELOPE  ROLLS" 

Sift  together  one  and  a  half  cups  of  wheat 
flour  and  three  quarters  of  a  cup  of  corn  meal. 
Add  a  teaspoon  of  salt,  three  teaspoons  of 
baking  powder,  and  rub  in  two  tablespoons  of 
butter.  Add  a  half  cup  of  milk  and  as  much 
more  as  seems  necessary  to  make  a  soft  dough. 


66  American  Indian  Com 

Roll  out  on  a  floured  board,  cut  with  a  round 
cutter,  and  fold  envelope  fashion;  bake  in  a 
quick  oven  in  a  greased  shallow  pan. 

.BEATEN   CORN  BREAD 

TKHork  one  heaping  tablespoon  of  butter  into 
a  cup  of  corn  meal,  a  cup  of  flour,  two  tea- 
spoons of  sugar,  and  a  teaspoon  of  salt.  Add 
enough  water  to  moisten  but  not  to  wet  it 
enough  to  make  it  crtimble.  Spread  on  a 
floured  board  and  beat  with  a  masher  for 
twenty  minutes,  folding  it  over  often.  Roll 
out  a  half -inch  thick,  cut  in  rounds,  prick  with 
a  fork  and  bake  in  greased  shallow  pan. 

ST.   CHARLES   CORN   MUFFINS 

pour  one  cup  of  boiling  water  over  two  cups 
of  white  corn  meal  and  stir  so  all  is  scalded. 
Cool  slightly,  then  add  a  heaping  tablespoon 
of  butter,  a  saltspoon  of  salt,  two  beaten  eggs, 
a  cup  of  sweet  milk,  and  a  teaspoon  of  baking 
powder.  Pour  into  hot,  greased,  iron  gem 
pans,  and  bake  twenty  minutes.  This  is  a 
thin  batter  muffin. 

RING  MUFFINS 

®ne  cup  of  corn  flour,  a  half  cup  of  wheat 
flour  into  which  sift  a  teaspoon  of  salt  and 


American  Indiein  Corn  67 

the  same  amount  of  baking  powder,  and  one 
tablespoon  of  sugar.  Beat  in  the  yolks  of 
two  eggs,  a  cup  and  a  half  of  milk,  and  a 
heaping  teaspoon  of  lard.  Mix  smoothly  and 
add  the  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs.  Cook  in 
buttered  muffin  rings  on  a  hot  greased  griddle ; 
ttirn  with  a  slice  to  brown  both  sides. 

CORN-MEAL  CRUMPETS 

Scald  one  quart  of  corn  meal  with  one 
quart  of  boiled  milk,  let  stand  until  it  is  luke- 
warm. Stir  in  a  tablespoon  each  of  lard  and 
butter,  two  tablespoons  of  sugar,  a  saltspoon 
of  salt,  and  an  yeast  cake  dissolved  in  cold 
water.  Beat  smooth,  poiir  in  buttered  muf- 
fin rings  set  on  buttered  pan,  and  bake  fif- 
teen minutes. 

CORN   CRISPETS 

pour  one  cup  of  boiling  water  over  seven 
eighths  of  a  cup  of  corn  meal,  two  and  a  half 
tablespoons  of  butter,  and  a  half  teaspoon  of 
salt.  Mix  and  spread  on  a  buttered  pan  an 
eighth  of  an  inch  thick;  bake  and  cut  into 
three-inch  squares.     Serve  at  once. 

CREOLE   CAKES 

IP  our  one  pint  of  scalding  milk  over  as  much 


68  American  Indian  Corn 

corn  meal  as  it  will  wet,  let  it  cool,  then  add 
two  beaten  eggs,  a  saltspoon  of  salt,  a  teaspoon 
of  saleratus,  and  a  pint  of  milk.  Bake  in 
small  pans. 

"POOR  MAN'S"   CORN  GEMS 

Stir  one  pint  each  of  corn  meal  and  flonr, 
one  teaspoon  of  salt,  and  two  teaspoons  of 
baking  powder  into  a  third  of  a  pint  each  of 
milk  and  water.  Mix  to  a  smooth,  firm  batter 
and  turn  into  greased  cold  gem  pans.  Bake 
fifteen  minutes  in  a  brisk  oven. 

ROYAL   CORN   MUFFINS 

Sift  together  one  pint  each  of  corn  meal  and 
flonr,  a  tablespoon  of  sugar,  a  teaspoon  of  salt, 
and  three  teaspoons  of  baking  powder.  Beat 
in  two  eggs  and  a  pint  of  milk,  mix  smooth, 
and  pour  into  cold  buttered  muffin  pans,  filling 
them  three  quarters  full .  Bake  fifteen  minutes 
in  a  hot  oven.  A  half  cup  of  chopped  ber- 
ries may  be  added,  in  season,  to  these  muffins, 
or  chopped  dates,  raisins,  or  stewed  prunes,  in 
winter,  added  are  very  appetizing. 


Waffles,     Pancakes,    Fritters,    and 
Dumplings 

CORN  AND  WHEAT  WAFFLES 

fIDix  two  and  a  half  cups  of  wheat  flotir,  a 
half  cup  of  sifted  com  meal,  a  teaspoon  of 
baking  powder,  and  a  teaspoon  of  salt  together. 
Make  a  well  in  the  center  and  pour  in  a  heaping 
tablespoon  of  melted  butter,  two  eggs  beaten 
very  light,  and  two  cups  of  rich  milk,  stirring 
steadily  as  the  liquid  is  poured  in.  Beat  to  a 
smooth  batter.  Heat  and  grease  the  waffle 
irons  and  fill  them  three  quarters  full  of  the 
batter.  Cook  over  a  clear  brisk  fire.  Serve 
with  fresh  butter  and  powdered  sugar. 

IOWA  WAFFLES 

iPour  one  and  a  half  pints  of  boiling  watea: 
into  a  pint  of  corn  meal  and  cook  like  mush 
for  a  half  hour,  adding  a  heaping  tablespoon 
of  butter  and  a  teaspoon  of  salt.    When  done, 

69 


70  American  Indian  Com 

set  aside  to  cool.  Beat  four  eggs,  whites  and 
yolks  separately;  beat  into  the  mush  a  tea- 
spoon of  baking  powder,  then  the  egg  yolks. 
Add  slowly  two  thirds  of  a  pint  of  milk,  sifting 
in,  slowly,  a  pint  of  flour.  Last  of  all  add  the 
whipped  egg  whites  and  cook  in  the  hot  greased 
wafHe  irons  at  once. 

CORN  MEAL  AND   RICE  WAFFLES 

flDix  together  a  half  cup  of  com  meal,  a  half 
cup  of  flour,  a  cup  of  cold  boiled  rice,  a  tea- 
spoon of  salt,  half  a  teaspoon  of  baking 
powder,  a  tablespoon  of  melted  butter,  two 
beaten  eggs,  and  a  pint  of  milk.  Beat  well 
and  bake  in  well-greased  hot  waffle  irons. 

GRIDDLE   CAKES  WITHOUT  EGGS 

®ne  pint  of  corn  meal,  four  tablespoons  of 
flour,  one  level  teaspoon  of  salt,  and  a  teaspoon 
of  soft  butter.  Beat  well,  and  cook  the  cakes 
on  a  hot  greased  griddle. 

CORN-MEAL  FRITTERS 

!fSeat  with  two  cups  of  corn  meal  a  table- 
spoon of  soft  butter,  a  tablespoon  of  sugar,  and 
a  teaspoon  of  salt.     Add  the  beaten  yolks  of 


American  Indian  Com  71 

four  eggs,  three  cups  of  milk,  and  a  half  cup  of 
flour  with  a  half  teaspoon  of  baking  powder. 
Mix  thoroughly,  then  fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten 
egg  whites.  Drop  by  the  spoonful  into  hot 
fat  and  fry  a  golden  brown;  drain  on  coarse 
brown,  or  blotting  paper.  Serve  in  a  napkin 
dusted  with  powdered  sugar.  Crushed  fresh 
fruit  juice,  maple  syrup  and  chopped  nut  sauce, 
vanilla  syrup  sauce,  or  hard  sauce,  may  be 
served  with  the  fritters.  A  half  cup  of  chopped 
fresh  berries,  a  shredded  pineapple,  or  a 
grated  apple  added  to  the  batter  is  always 
good. 


INDIAN  DUMPLINGS 

tThe  dumplings  were  used  by  the  Indians  in 
a  venison  stew.  Take  a  pint  of  com  meal  and 
pour  over  it  a  half  pint  of  boiling  water,  or  a 
little  bit  more  if  it  swells  too  dry.  While  hot, 
mold  into  dimiplings,  dipping  the  hands  in 
cold  water  every  minute  to  keep  from  burn- 
ing the  flesh.  Drop  the  dumplings  in  the 
boiling  stew  and  cook  fifteen  minutes  closely 
covered.  Lift  with  a  skimmer  before  dishing 
the  rest  of  the  stew.  The  Indians  speared 
them  from  the  pot  with  forked  sticks,  cut  for 
the  purpose,  in  place  of  forks, 


72  American  Indian  Com 

RAISED  GRIDDLE  CAKES 

Scald  one  cup  of  white  corn  meal  with 
one  pint  of  boiling  water,  add  two  cups  of 
flour  while  warm,  one  tablespoon  of  brown 
sugar,  two  cups  of  milk,  and  an  yeast  cake  dis- 
solved in  a  little  cold  water.  Let  rise  over- 
night. In  the  morning  add  two  beaten  eggs, 
a  teaspoon  of  salt,  the  same  quantity  of  baking 
powder,  and  if  too  thin  add  a  little  more  meal 
or  flour.  Beat  well  and  cook  on  well-greased 
griddle. 

QUICK  CORN  GRIDDLE  CAKES 

Scald  one  pint  of  com  meal  with  one  pint 
of  water;  let  stand,  and  when  cool  add  three 
beaten  eggs,  a  saltspoon  of  salt,  a  teaspoon  of 
sugar,  and  five  teaspoons  of  cold  milk.  Cook 
on  hot  greased  griddle. 

CORN-MEAL  FLAPJACKS 

.  flDake  a  sponge  of  two  cups  of  com  meal 
scalded  with  one  quart  of  boiling  milk,  adding 
a  teaspoon  of  sugar,  and  a  tablespoon  of  butter. 
Let  stand  overnight.  In  the  morning  add 
the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  a  scant  cup  of  flour,  a 
teaspoon  each  of  salt  and  baking  powder,  and 


American  Indiein  Com  73 

last  of  all  the  beaten  whites  of  two  eggs.  Cook 
on  well-greased  hot  griddle,  making  the  cakes 
larger  around  than  the  ordinary  pancakes. 

KENTUCKY  CORN  DODGERS 

/ 

Scald  with  enough  water  to  leave  a  mold- 
ing dough,  one  quart  of  corn  meal,  one  salt- 
spoon  of  salt,  and  one  teaspoon  of  sugar.  Let 
stand  to  swell  and  get  cool  enough  to  handle. 
Stir  in  a  teaspoon  of  soft  butter  and  mold 
into  small  oval  cakes.  Have  a  hot  griddle 
well  greased  and  cook  the  little  cakes,  browning 
them  on  both  sides.  As  the  cakes  are  nearly 
an  inch  thick  they  must  cook  rather  slowly  to 
get  well  cooked  and  done  all  through. 

POP-CORN  BALLS 

pop  the  com  in  the  usual  way,  throwing 
out  all  unpopped  kernels  or  grannies.  Put 
into  a  stew  pan  a  pound  of  sugar  and  two 
thirds  of  a  pint  of  cold  water;  boil  until  it 
makes  a  soft  ball  when  a  little  is  dropped  in  cold 
water,  then  take  from  the  fire  and  add  eight 
tablespoons  of  gum-arabic  solution,  which 
should  be  of  the  consistency  of  molasses. 
Place  the  com  in  a  good-sized  pan  and  pour 
the  mixture  over  it,  stir  with  a  spoon,  imtil 


74  American  Indian  Com 

well  mixed,  then  with  floured  hands  form  into 
balls.  Pop-corn  is  eaten  plain,  salted,  with 
hot  butter  turned  over  it,  or  sprinkled  with 
a  light  sugar  syrup. 

CANDIED  POP-CORN 

put  in  a  saucepan  three  tablespoons  of 
water,  one  tablespoon  of  btitter,  and  one  cup 
of  confectioner's  sugar.  Boil  until  it  begins 
to  brittle  in  cold  water,  then  stir  in  three 
quarts  of  popped  corn  and  stir  briskly  until 
the  candy  syrup  is  all  over  the  corn.  Take 
from  the  stove  and  stir  until  cool  and  the 
corns  are  crystallized  and  separate. 

CORN  PRALINES 

ZThese  are  made  by  taking  a  vanilla  syrup, 
just  before  it  brittles  in  cold  water,  and  stir- 
ring into  it  freshly  popped  corn  and  stirring 
briskly  when  the  syrup  begins  to  grain,  then 
throwing  the  corn  into  a  sifter  to  shake  off  the 
loose  sugar. 

PARCHED   CORN 

ZThis  is  made  of  corn  that  is  browned  in  a 
pan  on  top  of  the  stove  and  salted  slightly. 


American  Indian  Com  75 

Indians  considered  it  very  noxirishing  and 
carried  it  on  long  jotirneys.  Children  are 
very  fond  of  it,  for  it  tastes  like  salted  nuts. 

SALAD  DRESSING 

fIDix  a  quarter  cup  of  corn  oil  with  a  salt- 
spoon  of  salt,  a  saltspoon  of  white  pepper,  a 
half  saltspoon  of  mignonette  pepper,  a  salt- 
spoon  of  sugar,  and  three  tablespoons  of  tar- 
ragon vinegar.  Beat  until  blended  thoroughly 
and  it  is  ready  for  use.  For  mayonnaise  it  is 
wise  to  add  a  little  olive  oil  to  the  corn  oil 
which  is  dark  in  color  and  rather  heavy  for  a 
fine  dressing.  The  oil,  imtil  recently,  was  used 
only  as  a  cheapening  agent  for  other  oils. 

Glucose,  another  com  product,  comes  in 
convenient  form  for  household  use  and  many 
cooks  use  it  to  help  sweeten  in  place  of  sugar, 
especially  in  ice  cream  and  in  preserve  making. 


Green  Corn  Cookery 

GREEN  CORN  SOUP 

Cut  with  a  sharp  knife  corn  kernels  from 
fresh  ears  to  make  one  pint,  throw  the  cobs 
into  enough  cold  water  to  cover  them,  and 
cook  thirty  minutes.  Strain  and  add  to  water 
which  should  be  boiling,  the  com  pulp,  and 
cook  fifteen  minutes,  then  add  one  pint  of 
milk,  a  teaspoon  of  salt,  a  saltspoon  of  pepper, 
a  teaspoon  of  sugar,  and  thicken  with  a 
tablespoon  of  butter  rubbed  to  a  cream  with  a 
heaping  teaspoon  of  flour.  Boil  up  and  serve 
at  once.  Toasted  bread  squares  are  usually 
served  with  the  soup. 

CORN  PUREE 

(3rate  the  com  from  twelve  large  ears. 
Put  the  cobs  in  enough  water  to  cover  them, 
with  one  chopped  onion  and  a  blade  of  mace. 
Cook  twenty  minutes  then  strain  and  set  aside. 
Rub  together  one  ounce  of  butter  and  two 

76 


American  Indian  Com  77 

tablespoons  of  fiotir,  add  to  this  one  quart  of 
chicken  broth  that  has  had  all  fat  removed. 
Cook  five  minutes,  then  add  a  teaspoon  of  salt, 
a  saltspoon  of  pepper,  and  the  com  water. 
Boil  ten  minutes,  pass  through  a  puree  sieve, 
and  serve  hot.  The  puree  may  also  be  made 
by  using  milk  or  cream  instead  of  the  chicken 
broth. 

CORN  CHOWDER 

Cut  com  from  enough  cobs,  say  a  dozen  and 
a  half  ears,  to  yield  three  pints.  Boil  the  cobs 
for  twenty  minutes,  in  water  enough  to  cover 
them,  then  strain.  Slice  a  quarter  pound  of 
fat,  salt  pork,  and  lay  on  the  bottom  of  the 
chowder  kettle;  cook  gently  for  five  minutes. 
Put  in  a  layer  of  thinly  sliced  onion,  a  layer  of 
sliced  potatoes,  a  layer  of  com,  butter,  pep- 
per, salt,  two  teaspoons  of  sugar,  and  then  in 
layers  onions,  potatoes,  corn,  and  seasoning. 
Add  a  pint  of  the  corn  water  and  a  pint  of  rich 
milk.  Mix  three  tablespoons  of  flour  with  a 
little  cream  and  tiirn  in  last.  Cook  gently, 
after  it  begins  to  boil,  for  thirty  minutes,  then 
add  five  broken  pilot  crackers,  that  have  been 
wet  with  milk;  cook  fifteen  minutes  longer, 
and  if  the  chowder  seems  too  dry  as  it  cooks 
add  a  little  more  of  the  corn  water.     If  liked 


78  American  Indian  Com 

a  cup  of  stewed  tomatoes  may  be  added  or  two 
layers  of  sliced  fresh  ones  may  be  tucked  in, 
but  the  true  chowder  is  better  without  them. 
The  chowder  may  be  made  of  canned  com  when 
fresh  is  out  of  season. 

SUCCOTASH  SOUP 

Cut  the  corn  from  a  dozen  and  a  half  ears 
of  com  and  set  aside.  Put  the  cobs  into  a 
kettle  with  three  potmds  of  lean  veal,  a  sliced 
onion,  and  a  stalk  of  celery.  Boil  imtil  the 
meat  is  tender,  then  remove  it  and  strain  the 
liquor.  Put  in  the  com  and  a  pint  of  shelled 
lima  beans.  Cook  for  a  half  hour,  then  add 
a  quart  of  rich,  hot  milk,  a  little  sugar,  pepper 
and  salt  to  taste,  and  thicken  slightly  with  a 
little  butter  and  flour  rubbed  to  a  smooth 
paste.  For  the  meat,  which  must  be  kept  hot, 
make  a  rich  brown  sauce  and  slice  the  meat 
into  it ;  serve  on  a  hot  platter  with  a  border 
of  boiled  samp.  This  makes  an  economical 
dinner.  Potatoes  may  be  added  to  meat 
gravy  if  desired. 

CANNED  CORN  SOUP 

ITake  a  large  can  of  any  good  brand  of  sweet 
com  and  put  into  a  saucepan  with  a  quart  of 


American  Indian  Com  79 

boiling  water,  a  stalk  of  celery,  and  a  grated 
onion.  Boil  for  an  hour,  put  through  a  puree 
sieve,  and  add  a  pint  of  hot  rich  milk,  pepper, 
salt,  a  teaspoon  of  sugar,  and  a  lump  of  butter; 
beat  two  eggs  light  and  add  to  a  cup  of 
cream,  and  pour  in  at  the  last  minute;  blend 
thoroughly  and  serve  with  toasted  croutons 
fried  in  hot  fat. 

BOILED   CORN 

Select  as  many  ears  of  ripe  tender  com  as 
are  needed;  husk  it  and  remove  the  silk  care- 
fully, and  plimge  it  into  boiling  water  to  cook 
twenty  minutes.  Do  not  add  salt  for  it 
toughens  the  com.  Lift  the  com  and  serve 
in  a  napkin. 

ROAST  CORN 

IKHhen  not  convenient  to  roast  com  before 
the  camp  fire,  boil  as  directed  above,  then  lay 
the  ears  on  the  gridiron  over  a  steady  fire, 
turning  them  with  a  long  steel  fork  as  they 
roast,  which  they  do  very  quickly;  brush  over 
with  butter,  sprinkle  with  salt,  and  serve  at 
once. 

STEWED   CORN 

Cut  the  corn  from  a  dozen  ears,  add  a  pint 
of  water,  a  half  pint  of  milk,  and  put  in  a 


8o  American  Indian  Com 

double  boiler  to  cook.  Cook  twenty  minutes, 
uncovered,  then  add  a  tablespoon  of  butter 
rolled  in  flour,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  two 
teaspoons  of  sugar,  and,  just  at  serving,  a  little 
cream.  Canned  corn  may  be  cooked  in  the 
same  way  only  it  need  not  cook  quite  as  long. 

SUCCOTASH 

Cut  the  com  from  fifteen  ears  of  tender  com. 
Cut  one  medium  slice  of  pickled  pork  into 
cubes,  fry  it  in  a  large  steel  frying  pan  until 
the  cubes  are  a  delicate  brown,  then  put  in  the 
corn  and  a  pint  of  milk ;  boil  gently  for  twenty 
minutes.  Add  a  teaspoon  of  salt,  a  salt- 
spoon  of  pepper,  a  tablespoon  of  sugar,  and  a 
quart  of  fresh  young  lima  beans  that  have 
been  boiled  m  fair  water  until  tender  and 
carefully  drained.  Add  a  tablespoon  of  butter 
that  has  been  worked  to  a  paste  with  two  tea- 
spoons of  flour.  Blend  and  serve  hot.  This 
old  Indian  dish  was  probably  served  originally 
without  the  seasoning  or  thickening  that  is 
used  by  modern  cooks. 

GREEN  CORN  PUDDING 

^  JIhis  dish  is  for  the  meat  course  or  for  a 
luncheon  dish.  Grate  the  com  from  twelve 
ears,  add  four  beaten  eggs,  two  tablespoons 


AmericsLn  IndiEin  Com  8i 

of  melted  butter,  one  tablespoon  of  sugar,  a 
saltspoon  of  salt  and  pepper  each,  and  three 
cups  of  sweet  milk.  Blend  well  and  turn  into 
a  buttered  pudding  dish,  sprinkle  a  few  very 
fine  bread  crumbs,  with  a  little  grated  cheese, 
over  the  top,  and  bake  for  about  an  hour  de- 
pending on  the  heat  of  the  oven. 

CORN  OYSTERS 

fH5ix  one  pint  of  grated  com  with  a  table- 
spoon of  melted  butter,  three  tablespoons  of 
milk,  three  beaten  eggs,  a  teaspoon  of  salt,  a 
saltspoon  of  pepper,  and  a  teaspoon  of  sugar. 
Mix  well  and  blend  in  three  tablespoons  of 
flour,  drop  by  spoonfuls  in  a  frying  pan  with 
hot  lard  two  inches  deep.  Hold  the  spoon 
close  to  the  fat  when  dropping  the  batter  to 
make  the  oyster  a  better  shape.  Drain  them 
and  serve  garnished  with  parsley  and  lemon 
quarters. 

CORN  FRITTERS 

(5rate  the  com  from  twelve  ears.  Make  a 
batter  of  a  half  cup  of  flotir,  sifted,  with  a  tea- 
spoon of  baking  powder,  a  teaspoon  of  salt,  a 
tablespoon  of  butter,  and  fotir  beaten  eggs. 
Add  the  com,  blend  carefully,  and  drop  by 
spoonfuls  into  hot  fat.  Drain  the  fritters, 
dust  with  powdered  sugar,  and  serve  in  a 


82  American  Indisoi  Com 

napkin.     If  for  a  vegetable  omit  the  sugar 
and  dust  with  pepper  and  salt. 

CORN  BAKED   WITH  TOMATOES 

Cut  from  the  cob  with  a  sharp  knife,  first 
slitting  the  kernels  lengthways,  then  scraping 
them  down  with  the  back  of  the  knife  to  press 
out  the  pulp.  Use  enough  corn  to  make  one 
quart  of  ptJp.  Add  fotir  sliced  tomatoes. 
Butter  a  deep  baking  dish  and  put  in  a  layer 
of  corn,  then  a  layer  of  tomato,  a  tablespoon 
of  bread  crtimbs;  dust  with  pepper  and  salt, 
a  teaspoon  of  sugar,  and  dot  with  butter.  Pro- 
ceed in  this  way  until  the  materials  are  used ; 
turn  over  the  juice  of  an  onion  and  a  small  cup 
of  cream.  Bake  in  a  medium  oven  for  thirty- 
five  minutes. 

CORN  OMELETTE 

flDake  a  good  omelette  batter  the  usual  way, 
using  four  eggs.  Cut  the  com  from  three  ears 
that  have  been  boiled  fresh,  or  left  over.  Add 
com  to  the  batter  and  cook  the  omelette  in  the 
usual  way  in  a  hot  buttered  omelette  pan. 

/  CORN  WAFFLES 

(Brate  com  enough  to  make  one  pint ;  add 
to  it  the  beaten  yolks  of  six  eggs,  one  cup  of 


American  Indian  Com  83 

cream,  one  cup  of  sifted  flour,  and  a  teaspoon 
of  salt.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  stiff  and 
fold  them  in.  Cook  in  hot  well-greased  waffle 
irons  and  serve  at  once. 

ONIA  TEI  DA 

tlhis  was  an  old  Indian  dish  and  is  interest- 
ing, for  it  was  the  forenmner  of  the  Mexican 
hot  tomales.  It  was  made  by  the  Zuiii  and 
Western  Apache  tribes.  Scrape  the  corn 
kernels  from  a  dozen  ears  of  fresh  tender  com, 
put  it  in  a  mortar  and  pound  it  to  a  milky 
paste;  add  pepper  and  salt,  the  juice  of  four 
wild  onions,  and  make  into  small  cakes, 
wrapping  each  in  corn  husks  and  tying  them. 
Drop  into  boiling  water  and  cook  forty-five 
minutes;  drain,  remove  the  wrappings,  and 
serve  with  a  little  bacon  grease  poured  over 
them  and  a  piece  of  fried  bacon  on  top  of 
each.  These  cakes  can  be  made  to-day  just 
as  well  and  be  quite  as  tasty  with  the  corn  rtm 
through  the  chopping  machine,  and  a  grated 
cultivated  onion  used  to  take  the  place  of  the 
wild  variety. 

DRIED   CORN 

]for  drying,  cut  the  corn  from  the  cobs  and 
spread  on  wooden  plates ;  place  before  an  elec- 
tric fan  and  dry  as  quickly  as  possible.     The 


84  American  Indieun  Com 

old  slow  method  of  sun  or  oven  drying  was 
often  unsuccessful  because  it  was  slow  and  the 
com  milk  often  soured  before  the  drying  was 
done,  so  it  was  not  good.  When  dry  it  may  be 
stored  in  paper  bags  or  in  tight  boxes.  When 
ready  to  use,  the  corn  should  be  soaked  for 
twelve  hours  or  longer  before  being  cooked. 
Cook  it  in  any  of  the  given  ways,  only  cook  a 
little  longer  than  the  fresh  corn.  There  are 
several  home  dryers  to  be  had  if  electricity  is 
not  available. 

CORN  CONSERVED  ^ON  THE  COB 

tChis  is  an  old-fashioned  recipe  for  what  was 
known  as  ''processed"  corn.  Remove  the 
husks  and  silk  from  a  basket  of  com.  Put 
the  corn,  and  a  large  stone  jar  or  crock  full 
of  water,  in  a  tight  wooden  box.  Now,  in  an 
earthen  dish  place  some  sulphur  and  set  it 
afire,  close  the  box  tight,  and  let  all  smoke  for 
eight  hours.  Open  the  box,  turn  the  charred 
sulphur  over,  and  light  it  again,  closing  the 
box  overnight.  Take  the  corn  and  immerse 
it  in  the  jar  of  water,  light  some  fresh  sulphur, 
and  let  stand  another  twelve  hours,  then  cork 
the  jar,  or  cover  it  tightly.  When  ready  for 
the  com  soak  it  twelve  hours,  turning  off  the 
water  two  or  three  times,  then  boil  it  the  same 


American  Indian  Com  85 

as  fresh  corn.  The  old-fashioned  way  of  can- 
ning corn  is  as  good  to-day  as  it  used  to  be. 
Cut  com  from  the  cobs,  add  a  little  salt,  and  a 
little  water  if  it  is  too  thick,  stew  until  tender, 
and  can  hot  in  pint  jars.  Any  of  the  new 
methods,  however,  will  be  successful  if  the  di- 
rections are  followed.  Government  bulletins 
give  all  methods  and  will  be  sent  on  request. 

Farmer's  Bulletin  841  issued  by  U.  S.  Dept. 
of  Agriculture  in  191 7  says:  ''  Cook  young  and 
tender  com  ir^  boiling  water  for  two  to  five 
minutes  to  set  the  milk,  then  with  a  sharp 
knife  cut  the  kernels  from  the  cob,  spread  on 
plates,  or  trays,  thickly,  and  place  to  dry. 
The  yield  is  a  pound  of  dried  com  per  dozen 
ears  on  an  average." 

In  cutting  com  for  drying,  or  canning,  care 
must  be  taken  to  cut  down  half  of  the  kernel 
with  the  sharp  knife,  then  with  the  back  of  the 
knife  scrape  down  the  kernels  and  milk.  This 
removes  danger  of  getting  pieces  of  cob  into 
the  product. 

STEAMED   CORN 

TKHhen  corn  is  steamed  the  husks  are  left  on 
the  ears  as  it  is  done  in  a  clam  bake.  But  if 
preferred  it  may  be  husked,  and  after  remov- 
ing the  silk  it  may  be  wrapped  in  a  cheese- 


86  American  Indian  Corn 

cloth  kitchen  binder  and  then  put  into  the 
steamer. 

FRIED   CORN 

Cut  com  enough  from  the  cobs  of  freshly 
boiled  corn  to  make  two  and  a  half  cups.  Add 
a  level  teaspoon  of  salt,  a  saltspoon  of  pepper, 
a  teaspoon  of  sugar,  and  the  juice  of  an  onion. 
Heat  in  a  frying  pan  enough  olive  oil  to  thinly 
cover  the  bottom.  Pour  in  the  com,  add  to  it 
the  beaten  yolk  of  one  egg  in  a  quarter  cup  of 
cream.  Stir  briskly,  do  not  cover,  and  brown 
evenly;  serve  with  steak. 

DEVILED   CORN 

XKHork  to  a  cream  a  half  cup  of  flour  and  a 
quarter  cup  of  soft  fresh  butter.  When 
smooth  turn  over  it  one  and  a  half  cups  of  hot 
milk,  and  let  come  to  boiling  point;  add  a 
quarter  teaspoon  of  paprika,  a  level  teaspoon 
of  mustard,  three  teaspoons  of  Worcestershire 
sauce,  a  quarter  cup  of  bread  crumbs,  one 
beaten  eggj  one  and  a  half  teaspoons  of  salt, 
and  two  cups  of  corn  cut  fresh  from  the  cob. 
Pour  into  a  buttered  pudding  dish ;  after  well 
mixing,  dust  the  top  with  powdered  crumbs, 
pepper,  salt,  and  a  little  grated  cheese ;  dot  with 
little  lumps  of  butter  and  bake. 


American  Indian  Com  87 

CORN  SALADS 

Cut  enough  boiled  com  from  the  cobs  to 
make  one  cup,  add  it  to  one  cup  of  boiled  rice; 
add  a  saltspoon  of  salt,  a  half  saltspoon  of 
pepper,  juice  of  an  onion,  and  set  aside  to  cool. 
Add  a  cup  of  chopped  celery,  a  half  cup  of 
tartare  sauce,  and  lay  on  lettuce  leaves 
garnished  with  pimento  olives. 

SALAD  HORTENSE 

Cut  the  com  from  six  cold  boiled  ears 
and  add  to  it  one  cup  of  chopped  celery,  one 
finely  chopped  onion,  and  a  green  pepper,  fold 
in  Russian  mayonnaise  and  fill  large  tomatoes 
well  hollowed  out  with  the  mixture.  Place 
the  tomatoes  on  lettuce  leaves  and  garnish 
with  tiny  ears  of  French  maize. 

JELLIED,  CORN  SALAD 

Unto  two  cups  of  highly  seasoned  tomato 
stock  put  two  cups  of  cold  boiled  com  cut 
from  the  cobs.  Dissolve  two  tablespoons  of 
gelatine  powder  in  a  little  warm  water  and 
when  melted  strain  into  the  corn  mixture. 
Pour  into  individual  com  molds.  Unmold 
on  lettuce  leaves,  mask  with  mayonnaise,  and 


88  American  Indian  Com 

garnish  with  olive  curls  buttered  with  Anchovy 
paste. 

CORN  SANDWICHES 

^ake  one  cup  of  corn  cut  from  the  freshly- 
boiled  cobs,  add  to  it  a  small  can  of  Pate  de 
Foie  Gras,  mix  to  a  paste,  add  a  dash  of 
paprika,  a  tablespoon  of  chutney  syrup  and  a 
saltspoon  of  salt.  Lay  upon  whole  wheat 
rounds  lightly  buttered  with  fresh  butter. 

CORN  AND   CLAM  FRITTERS 

Steam  open  a  dozen  medium-sized  soft 
clams,  take  from  the  shell,  and  chop  coarsely. 
Cut  enough  young  and  tender  com  from  the 
cob  to  make  one  cupful.  Mix  a  good  fritter 
batter  using  one  cup  of  flour,  a  level  teaspoon 
of  baking  powder,  a  pinch  of  salt,  a  saltspoon 
of  sugar,  two  beaten  eggs,  a  half  cup  of  milk, 
and  a  half  cup  of  the  clam  juice.  Beat  well, 
adding  the  corn  and  clams.  Fry  in  deep  hot 
fat,  drain,  and  serve  with  tartare  sauce. 

GREEN  CORN  PIE 

Cut  the  com  from  three  freshly,  boiled  ears, 
add  one  cup  of  milk,  one  half  cup  of  sifted 
flour,  one  teaspoon  of  soft  butter,  a  tablespoon 


American  Indian  Com  89 

of  sugar,  a  half  teaspoon  of  salt,  a  dash  of 
pepper,  and  two  eggs,  the  whites  and  the 
yolks  beaten  separately.  Mix  thoroughly  and 
turn  into  a  pie  plate  lined  with  tender  pastry ; 
put  on  top  crust  and  bake. 

KENTUCKY  GREEN  ^CORN  PUDDING 

®ne  pint  of  com  cut  from  the  cob,  a  salt- 
spoon  of  salt,  a  tablespoon  of  butter,  yolks 
of  three  eggs  beaten  with  half  a  pint  of  milk. 
Mix  thoroughly  and  bake  in  well-buttered 
pan  until  set  in  the  middle. 

CORN  EN  CASSEROLE 

parboil,  blanch  and  dice  a  large  pair  of 
sweetbreads,  dip  them  in  melted  butter,  then 
in  fine  crumbs,  pepper,  salt  and  grated  cheese 
mixed,  lay  them  in  a  casserole  with  alternate 
layers  of  green  corn  cut  from  the  cob  carefully 
scraped  so  as  to  get  all  of  the  milk  with  it. 
Dot  with  Itimps  of  butter,  add  the  juice  of  an 
onion,  a  half  cup  of  honey,  and  a  small  cup 
of  cream  in  which  one  egg  has  been  beaten. 
Sprinkle  with  a  tablespoon  of  flour,  cover  and 
cook  for  an  hour  and  a  half  in  an  even  oven. 

GREEN  CORN  CUSTARD 

(Brate  corn  from  six  large  ears.     Add  to  it 


90  American  Indian  Com 

a  cup  of  heavy  cream,  a  saltspoon  of  pepper,  a 
half  teaspoon  of  salt,  two  teaspoons  of  sugar, 
a  tablespoon  of  honey,  a  tablespoon  of  melted 
butter,  and  three  well-beaten  eggs.  Pour  in 
a  buttered  mold,  cover,  set  In  a  pan  of  water, 
and  bake  one  hour  or  until  set  like  a  custard. 
Serve  with  a  hard  or  whipped  cream  sauce. 
The  custard  may  be  chilled  before  serving  if 
desired. 

CORN  SOUFFLE 

Cut  enough  young  and  tender  corn  from 
the  cobs  to  make  one  cup.  Beat  in  three 
fresh  eggs,  a  saltspoon  of  pepper,  a  half  tea- 
spoon of  salt,  and  a  teaspoon  of  sugar.  Pour  in 
buttered  souffle  dishes  and  bake  for  ten  min- 
utes in  a  good  brisk  oven.     Serve  immediately. 

CORN  CHILO 

put  through  a  chopper  a  pound  of  beef 
(round  steak  having  a  little  fat  will  do),  one 
onion,  and  a  pepper  with  seed  cone  removed. 
Fry  for  a  few  minutes  in  a  little  tomato  paste 
and  olive  oil,  then  add  two  tablespoons  of 
chopped  ripe  olives,  a  tablespoon  of  chopped 
seeded  raisins,  and  seasoning.  Spread  in 
a  buttered  pudding  mold ;  slice  over  it  two 
cold  boiled  eggs,  a  few  slices  of  cold  boiled 


American  Indian  Com  91 

chicken,  four  sliced  trufHes,  and  a  tablespoon 
of  minced  chives.  Grate  the  com  from  six 
large  ears,  fry  it  in  hot  fat,  stirring  steadily 
until  it  is  a  delicate  brown.  Add  a  level  table- 
spoon of  sugar,  beaten  with  the  yolks  of  three 
eggs,  the  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs  and  a  little 
cream  to  the  com,  then  spread  it  over  the 
pudding -dish  mixture;  bake  a  half  hour,  dust 
with  powdered  sugar.  Bake  long  enough  to 
brown  lightly. 


Desserts 

BAKED  INDIAN  PUDDING 

Bring  one  quart  of  milk  to  boiling  point; 
add  a  cup  of  corn  meal  that  has  been  wet  up 
with  a  little  bit  of  water;  boil,  tightly  covered, 
for  an  hour;  cool  a  little,  then  add  a  small  cup 
of  butter,  a  cup  of  molasses,  a  saltspoon  of  salt, 
grated  juice  and  rind  of  a  lemon,  and  last  of 
all  six  well-beaten  eggs.  Pour  into  a  buttered 
pudding  dish  and  bake  for  thirty-five  minutes. 
Two  of  the  egg  whites  may  be  kept  out  and 
beaten  with  four  teaspoons  of  powdered  sugar 
to  a  stiff  froth  and  spread  as  a  meringue  on  top 
when  the  pudding  is  baked.  Put  in  the  oven 
one  minute  or  so  to  brown  the  meringue. 
Whipped  cream,  or  crushed  fresh  fruit,  may 
be  served  with  the  pudding. 

INDIAN  SUET  PUDDING 

Ibeat  to  boiling  a  pint  and  a  half  of  milk, 

and  sift  into  it  two  small  cups  of  com  meal; 

stir  briskly  tmtil  it  thickens ;  then  cool  with  a 

92 


American  Indian  Com  93 

pint  and  a  half  of  milk,  and  add  three  beaten 
eggs,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  beef  suet  chopped 
fine,  four  tablespoons  of  sugar,  a  cup  of  mo- 
lasses, a  saltspoon  of  salt,  and  a  pound  of  large 
seeded  raisins.  Mix  thoroughly  and  turn  into 
a  deep,  lightly  buttered  pudding  dish  and 
bake  for  two  and  a  half  to  three  hours  accord- 
ing to  the  heat  of  the  oven. 

BOILED   CORN-MEAL  PUDDING 

JiSoil  two  tablespoons  of  sugar  in  two  cups 
of  boiling  water,  two  minutes;  then  sift  in  two 
cups  of  white  corn  meal  and  boil  like  mush 
for  five  minutes.  Add  one  cup  of  suet  chopped 
very  fine,  one  even  teaspoon  of  salt,  and  one 
teaspoon  of  groimd  ginger;  beat  well  and  pour 
into  a  floured  pudding  bag  and  boil  five 
hours.  Dish  and  serve  with  hard  sauce 
made  of  a  cup  of  sugar  and  a  half  cup  of 
butter  creamed  together,  two  egg  whites 
stiffly  beaten,  a  dash  of  grated  nutmeg,  a 
tablespoon  of  brandy,  or  a  teaspoon  of  vanilla 
flavoring. 

FRUIT  PUDDING 

fIDake  the  same  as  for  the  plain  boiled  pud- 
ding, only  add  a  pint  of  well-washed  blueberries, 


94  American  Indian  Corn 

strawberries,  blackberries,  or  stoned  cherries. 
Peaches  are  also  good,  as  are  big  blue  pltitns, 
stoned.  For  the  frmt  puddings  use  the  Rocky 
Mountain  sauce.  This  is  made  of  a  cup  of 
sugar  and  three  quarters  of  a  cup  of  butter 
creamed  together ;  add  a  beaten  eggy  a  grating 
of  nutmeg,  a  half  gill  of  brandy  or  sherry. 
Set  the  bowl  over  the  tea-kettle  and  stir  until 
all  the  ingredients  are  incorporated  in  a  smooth 
sauce.  A  plate  should  be  put  in  the  bottom  of 
the  kettle  for  the  boiled  pudding  to  rest  on. 
If  the  hot  pudding  is  taken  from  the  boiling 
water  and  put  under  cold  water  for  just  a 
minute  it  will  turn  out  of  the  bag  without 
breaking.  The  water  should  be  boiling  when 
the  pudding  goes  in  and  kept  boiling  every 
minute  it  is  cooking. 

NEW    ENGLAND    BOILED    DINNER 
PUDDING 

flDix  in  one  quart  of  milk  three  cups  of  com 
meal  and  a  teaspoon  of  salt.  Beat  well  and 
pour  in  a  floured  pudding  bag,  tying  loosely  to 
leave  room  for  swelling.  Boil  with  the  meat 
for  four  hours;  the  vegetables  are  added  the 
last  half  hour,  and  when  done  the  pudding  is 
colored  red.  Serve  witn  maple  syrup  with 
chopped  walnuts  in  it. 


American  Indisin  Com  95 

CANADA  CREAM 

Ibeat  one  quart  of  light  cream  hot,  add  three 
tablespoons  of  cornstarch  blended  with  a  little 
cool  cream,  sugar  to  taste,  and  allow  the  mix- 
ture to  boil  five  minutes,  stirring  constantly. 
Add  three  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites,  boil  up 
once,  and  take  from  the  stove.  When  slightly 
cool  drop  the  cream  by  spoonfuls  on  top  of 
chopped  and  sweetened  fresh  fruit  and  chill 
before  serving.  The  cream  may  be  served 
plain  also,  then  a  tea^oonof  vanilla  or  almond 
flavoring  should  be  added  before  chilling.  " 

POP-CORN  PUDDING 

ZThis  is  a  very  old  pudding  originated  by 
our  pilgrim  ancestors.  Dissolve  one  and  a  half 
ounces  of  gelatine  in  two  cups  of  hot  water; 
add  a  cup  of  sugar,  two  cups  of  milk,  a  heaping 
cup  of  chopped  pop-corn,  and  a  pinch  of  salt. 
Cook  for  ^ve  minutes,  then  add  the  strained 
juice  of  three  oranges,  beaten  whites  of  three 
^gg^y  ^  gill  of  cream,  and  a  tablespoon  of  ginger 
syrup.  Set  aside  to  cool,  in  a  wet  mold. 
Serve  whipped  cream  with  the  pudding. 

BLANC  MANGE 

thicken  a  quart  of  sweet  rich  milk  with 


96  American  Indian  Com 

four  tablespoons  of  cornstarch  rubbed  smooth 
with  a  little  of  the  milk.  Add  a  saltspoon 
of  salt  and  a  half  cup  of  sugar.  Heat  to  boil- 
ing point ;  stir  briskly  as  it  thickens,  care  being 
taken  not  to  scorch  the  mixture.  Take  from 
the  fire,  add  a  teaspoon  of  vanilla  flavoring, 
and  turn  into  a  mold.  Chill,  and  serve  with 
whipped  cream,  or  a  melted  jelly  sauce. 
Crushed  and  sweetened  fresh  fruit  in  season 
is  good  to  use  with  the  pudding. 

CORNSTARCH  CAKE 

iBeat  to  a  cream  two  cups  of  sugar  and  a  half 
cup  of  butter;  sift  together  two  cups  of  pastry 
flour,  one  small  cup  of  cornstarch,  and  two 
teaspoons  of  baking  powder.  Mix  all  with  the 
butter  and  sugar,  blending  with  a  cup  of  sweet 
milk;  last  of  all  fold  in  the  beaten  whites  of 
six  eggs,  and  a  teaspoon  of  lemon  flavoring. 
Bake  in  a  lightly  buttered  chimney  pan  and 
frost  with  lemon  frosting.  It  may  be  used 
also  as  layer  cake  with  a  delicate  filling. 

CORNSTARCH    CUSTARD,    FROZEN 

Scald  one  quart  of  rich  milk.  Blend  two 
teaspoons  of  cornstarch  in  a  little  cool  milk, 
turn  into  the  hot  milk  and  thicken,  covering 
it  and  allowing  it  to  cook  for  ten  minutes. 


Americsin  Indiein  Com  97 

Beat  two  eggs  with  three  tablespoons  of  sugar, 
stir  into  the  custard  and  let  stand  five  minutes, 
then  strain  all  into  the  freezer.  When  cool 
and  beginning  to  set,  add  two  teaspoons  of 
vanilla  and  freeze  hard.  Sometimes  called 
**  cotintry  ice  cream. " 

PILGRIM  PUDDING 

JSeat  together  a  cup  of  com  meal,  a  cup  of 
maple  syrup,  a  heaping  tablespoon  of  butter, 
and  a  salt  spoon  of  salt.  Pour  over  a  quart 
of  boiling  milk  and  let  stand  to  cool  a  few 
minutes,  then  add  a  quart  of  rich  milk  and 
three  beaten  eggs.  Pour  into  a  three-quart 
greased  pudding  mold,  cover,  and  bake  all 
day,  uncovering  to  brown  the  last  few  minutes. 
Serve  with   an  old-fashioned   cream  sauce. 

Sauce.  One  pint  of  milk,  a  pinch  of  salt,  a 
teaspoon  of  butter,  a  half  cup  of  sugar,  two 
teaspoons  of  cornstarch,  and  the  yolk  of  one 
egg.  Blend,  boil  up  to  thicken,  and  serve 
hot. 

CORN  PRUNE  MOLD 

Stew  one  half  pound  of  large  pnmes  imtil 
done  but  not  broken;  sweeten  and  stand  to 
cool.     When  cool  remove  the  stones  carefully 


98  AmericsLn  Indian  Com 

and  slip  blanched  almonds  into  the  prunes  in 
their  places.  Have  ready  a  quart  of  corn-meal 
mush,  not  made  too  thick  and  sweetened  with 
a  half  cup  of  sugar;  beat  in  a  Itmip  of  butter 
and  stir  in  evenly  the  prunes;  pour  in  a  wet 
mold  and  set  aside  to  cool  and  harden. 
When  ready  serve  with  any  good  cold  pud- 
ding sauce,  or  put  the  pudding  into  a  steamer 
and  steam  twenty  minutes  before  serving. 
Use  a  hard  sauce  or  a  boiled  sauce  with  the 
pudding. 

CORN  GINGER  PUDDING 

TKllet  one  scant  cup  of  corn  meal  in  enough 
cold  water  to  make  a  paste,  let  stand  ten 
minutes.  Add  a  saltspoon  of  salt,  a  half  tea- 
spoon of  ground  ginger,  one  teaspoon  of  cin- 
namon, a  cup  of  molasses,  and  a  cup  of  finely 
chopped  suet. '  Turn  into  a  baking  dish,  well 
buttered;  turn  over  the  top  two  cups  of  milk 
and  one  of  water  without  stirring  and  bake 
for  four  hours. 

MAIZENA   CAKE 

flDix  three  ounces  of  maizena  with  foiu: 
ounces  of  flour,  one  teaspoon  of  baking  powder, 
three  ounces  of  butter,  five  tablespoons  of 


American  Indian  Com  99 

sugar,  and  three  quarters  of  a  cup  of  milk. 
Flavor  with  rose  water;  beat  in  whites  of  three 
eggs  whipped  to  a  stiff  froth.  Bake,  turn  out 
and  lay  up  with  cream,  soft  icing,  or  a  layer  of 
fresh  fruit  and  whipped  cream. 

MAIZENA  BAVARIAN   CREAM 

ZThe  maizena  is  a  fine  com  fiotir.  Take  one 
cup  of  milk,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  three  ounces  of 
sugar  and  put  in  a  saucepan.  When  it  boils 
stir  in  three  ounces  of  maizena,  the  yolks  of 
three  eggs  beaten  in  a  half  cup  of  milk.  Stir, 
and  add  a  teaspoon  of  vanilla  and  a  few  drops 
of  almond  flavoring,  pour  into  a  wet  mold  and 
chill.  Take  the  whites  of  the  eggs  and  beat 
them  stiff  with  a  little  powdered  sugar,  add  to 
a  half  cup  of  cream,  use  a  few  drops  of  flavor- 
ing, and  serve  as  sauce  with  the  pudding. 

CORN-MEAL  CAKE  PUDDING 

pare  and  slice  six  large  or  twelve  small 
apples.  To  one  quart  of  milk,  add  one  quart 
of  com  meal,  a  teaspoon  of  salt,  four  table- 
spoons of  chopped  suet,  a  cup  of  molasses,  and 
a  teaspoon  of  soda  dissolved  in  a  little  hot 
water.  Pour  all  into  a  greased  mold  and 
steam  for  four  hours.  Unmold  and  serve 
with  good  hard  or  brandy  sauce. 


loo  American  Indian  Com 

DRIED  APPLE  CORN  PUDDING 

Scald  with  a  pint  of  milk  two  cups  of 
Indian  meal,  and  when  slightly  cool  add  a 
cup  of  sifted  flour,  a  half  cup  of  suet  chopped 
fine,  a  saltspoon  of  salt,  and  two  cups  of  dried 
apples  that  have  been  soaked  in  water  until 
swelled  then  mixed  with  a  half  gill  of  molasses. 
Tie  in  a  floured  pudding  bag  and  boil  or  steam 
for  five  hours.  Serve  a  sweetened  and  flav- 
ored drawn-butter  sauce  with  the  pudding. 

TAPIOCA    AND    INDIAN    PUDDING 

Soak  a  half  cup  of  tapioca  overnight;  in 
the  morning  scald  it  with  three  quarters  of  a 
quart  of  milk;  add  four  tablespoons  of  corn 
mieal,  wet  in  the  rest  of  the  quart  of  milk,  a 
tablespoon  of  soft  butter,  and  boil  ten  min- 
utes. Cool,  and  add  a  pint  of  sliced  tart 
apples,  a  cup  of  sugar,  and  two  beaten  eggs. 
Beat  well  and  pour  into  a  greased  pudding 
mold.  Cover,  and  bake  two  hours,  then 
remove  the  cover  and  bake  an  hour  more. 
Serve  with  a  good  boiled  sweet  chocolate  sauce. 

VIRGINIA  HOMINY  PUDDING 

XPtllash  four  tablespoons  of  hominy,  and  boil 


American  Indisoi  Com  loi 

with  water  to  cover,  and  a  saltspoon  of  salt. 
Cook  in  a  double  boiler.  When  done  add  a 
quart  of  hot  milk;  cook  until  the  hominy  is 
tender.  Take  from  the  fire  and  add  a  gener- 
ous Itmip  of  butter,  eight  tablespoons  of  sugar, 
a  grated  lemon  rind,  and  fotir  beaten  egg  yolks. 
Pour  into  buttered  baking  dish  and  bake  until 
set,  then  ttirn  over  the  beaten  whites  of  the 
eggs  beaten  with  sugar  and  the  juice  of  the 
lemon.  Return  to  the  oven  and  bake  imtil 
the  top  is  a  delicate  brown. 

MOCK  CANTALOUPE  PUDDING 

JSring  one  pint  of  milk  to  boiling  point  with 
a  cup  of  sugar.  Add  two  tablespoons  of  corn- 
starch that  has  been  mixed  with  a  quarter 
pint  of  milk.  Add  a  saltspoon  of  salt  and  cook 
for  five  minutes.  Add  three  beaten  egg  yolks, 
cook  two  minutes,  then  set  off  the  fire  and  add 
the  three  beaten  egg  whites,  cook  one  minute, 
stirring  constantly.  Lightly  butter  a  melon 
mold,  sprinkle  it  with  the  grated  rind  of  a 
lemon,  pour  in  the  pudding,  and  set  away  to 
cool  and  then  to  chill.  Serve  with  a  lemon 
sauce  made  of  a  cup  of  sugar,  a  half  cup  of 
water,  a  teaspoon  of  butter,  and  the  jtiice  of 
a  lemon.  Boil  for  five  minutes  then  cool 
before  serving. 


102  American  Indiein  Com 

CORN  SHORT  CAKE 

_  Select  any  of  the  recipes  for  quick  corn 
teead  and  pour  the  batter  into  two  buttered 
layer-cake  pans,  quarter  full  only,  and  bake. 
Turn  out,  butter,  and  lay  up  the  usual  way 
with  berries  that  have  been  cut  in  half  and 
allowed  to  stand  covered  with  sugar,  cut-up 
peaches,  shredded  pineapple,  or  dainty  stewed 
fruit.  Serve  hot  and  fresh  with  a  bowl  of 
whipped  cream  or  a  little  hard  sauce. 

NURSERY  PUDDING 

Beat  three  eggs  into  a  quart  of  milk,  add  a 
cup  of  sugar,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  three  table- 
spoons of  cornstarch  blended  with  a  little  bit 
of  milk.  Put  in  a  teaspoon  of  flavoring  and 
boil  in  a  double  boiler  until  thickened  or  bake 
in  a  lightly  buttered  dish.     Serve  hot  or  cold. 

CORN  ROYAL  SANDWICHES 

35ake  a  quick  corn  bread  after  any  of  the 
recipes  offered  and  when  it  is  cold  split  it  with 
a  sharp  knife  and  spread  with  currant  jelly  or 
orange  marmalade ;  cover,  and  cut  in  squares, 
dust  with  powdered  sugar  and  pile  sandwich 
fashion  on  a  plate.    Serve  as  soon  as  made. 


Americeui  Indian  Com  103 

CORN  PUFFS 

^ake  freshly  baked  corn  muffins  and  with  a 
teaspoon  take  out  some  of  the  center  and  fill 
with  the  following  cream.  Take  a  quarter 
pound  of  fresh  butter  and  cream  it  with  four 
ounces  of  confectioner's  sugar ;  add  a  level  tea- 
spoon of  cornstarch  and  a  teaspoon  of  coffee 
essence.  Fill  the  muffins  and  cover  the  out- 
side. When  the  muffins  are  served  put  a 
spoon  of  whipped  cream  on  top  of  each  with 
a  candied  cherry  in  the  center. ' 

CARAMEL  CORNSTARCH  PUDDING 

fDake  a  caramel  by  melting  a  half  cup  of 
granulated  sugar  in  an  iron  frying  pan,  watch- 
ing careftilly  that  it  does  not  burn.  When 
melted  and  a  good  color  add  a  half  cup  of 
boiling  water,  stirring  until  all  is  blended. 
Heat  in  a  double  boiler  a  pint  of  milk,  add  a 
half  cup  of  the  caramel.  Mix  a  heaping  table- 
spoon of  sugar,  a  quarter  teaspoon  of  salt,  four 
tablespoons  of  cornstarch,  with  two  table- 
spoons of  water.  Turn  the  hot  caramel  milk 
into  the  cornstarch  mixture,  blend  all,  and 
pour  back  into  the  double  boiler  to  cook  for 
forty-five  minutes,  stirring  often.  Pour  into 
small  wet  molds  and  set  away  to  cool  and 
chiU.    Unmold  and  serve  with  whipped  cream. 


104  American  Indiaun  Com 

CRACKERS 

Sift  together  one  and  a  half  pints  of  flour, 
a  half  pint  of  cornstarch,  a  half  teaspoon  of 
salt,  a  tablespoon  of  sugar,  and  a  teaspoon  of 
baking  powder.  Rub  in  a  tablespoon  of  lard, 
add  a  half  pint  of  milk,  and  mix  to  a  smooth 
dough.  Flour  the  molding  board,  turn  out 
the  dough,  knead  It  lightly  until  perfectly- 
smooth,  set  aside  covered  for  ten  minutes,  then 
roll  it  out  very  thin,  cut  in  rounds,  and  prick 
them  with  a  sharp  fork.  Lay  upon  buttered 
shallow  tins,  wash  over  with  milk,  and  bake 
seven  or  eight  minutes.  Store  in  a  tin  box  in  a 
dry  place  until  used.  Sprinkled  with  grated 
cheese  and  heated  in  the  oven  the  crackers  are 
good  to  use  with  the  salad  course. 

JERSEY  CORN-MEAL  PUDDING 

Stir  three  quarters  of  a  cup  of  corn  meal 
into  a  pint  of  milk  and  cook  until  it  boils, 
stirring  constantly.  Add  a  pint  of  cold  milk, 
take  from  the  fire,  stir  in  a  cup  and  a  half  of 
sugar,  a  level  teaspoon  of  salt,  three  beaten 
eggs,  a  tablespoon  of  molasses,  a  dozen  large 
seeded  raisins,  and  a  tablespoon  and  a  half 
of  finely  chopped  suet.  Pour  in  a  buttered 
baking  dish  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
one  hour. 


American  Indian  Corn     ^         105 

CORN  TUTTI  FRUTTI 

fIDake  one  quart  of  mush  in  the  usual  way. 
When  done  add  a  cup  of  sugar,  a  heaping 
tablespoon  of  butter,  one  cup  of  ground  nut 
meats,  a  half  cup  of  chopped  raisins,  and  a 
dessert  spoon  of  vanilla  flavoring.  Beat  well 
and  turn  into  a  deep  serving  dish.  Make  a 
pineapple  jelly  of  one  ripe  pineapple  chopped 
and  cooked  with  three  cups  of  water  for  half 
an  hour,  then  add  one  and  a  quarter  ounces 
of  gelatine  powder  dissolved  in  a  cup  of  hot 
water,  small  cup  of  sugar,  juice  and  rind  of  a 
lemon,  beaten  white  and  crushed  shell  of  an 
egg.  Boil  up  once,  strain,  and  add  a  cup  of 
chopped  fresh  fruit  drained  when  cool,  turn 
over  the  mush  and  put  in  a  cold  place  to  set. 
Serve  whipped  cream  with  the  chilled  dainty. 


GENERAL  REMARKS  ON  INDIAN  CORN. 

By  Charles  J.  Murphy 

*'If  the  women  of  the  present  day  would  learn  anew 
the  processes  of  cooking  corn  bread,  it  would  become 
fashionable,  the  family  would  be  more  healthy,  and 
there  would  be  great  satisfaction  in  ministering  to  the 
better  appetite  and  condition  it  would  bring  to  each 
member  of  the  family. " — C.  F.  Clarkson. 

Ut  has  been  said,  perhaps  trtily,  that  a  well- 
to-do  French  family  would  live  on  what  many 
an  American  and  English  family  in  the  same 
sphere  of  life  annually  wastes.  In  such  a  case 
there  is  little  doubt  that  the  more  economical 
is  the  better  living  of  the  .two.  To  make  the 
best  of  what  we  have  is  one  of  the  sciences  not 
taught  in  the  schools,  and  is  unknown  in 
many  households  in  our  land  of  plenty.  I 
write  in  the  interest  of  good  living  as  well 
as  mere  economy  in  expenses, — ^meaning  by 
good  living  not  only  the  preparation  of  palat- 
able food,  but  also  food  conducive  to  health, 
comfort,  and  length  of  days. 

The  most  abundant  food  product  of  America 

1 06 


American  Indian  Com  107 

is  Indian  corn.  In  the  State  of  Iowa  alone 
there  were  over  300,000,000  bushels  raised  in 
1888.  The  crop  of  the  entire  country  was 
over  two  thousand  millions  of  bushels  in  the 
same  year.  This  crop  in  Iowa  would  average 
to  each  man,  woman,  and  child  in  the  State 
about  six  tons — or  enough  to  furnish  bread 
for  forty  millions  of  population.  When  we 
consider  that  this  vast  amount  of  food  is 
produced  upon  less  than  one  fourth  of  the 
acreage  within  her  boundaries,  and  under  very 
primitive  forms  of  culture,  it  is  seen  that  the 
amount  may  be  doubled,  and  that  the  real 
bread-producing  capacity  of  the  State  is  suffi- 
cient for  eighty  millions  of  people. 

■  To  bring  the  attention  of  housewives, 
economists,  and  philanthropists  to  the  possi- 
bilities presented  in  this  immense  food  supply 
is  well  worthy  our  best  endeavors.  It  is 
commended  to  their  attention  as  offering 
variety  easily  obtained,  toothsome  dishes  on 
short  notice,  and  a  diet,  when  discreetly  com- 
bined and  varied  with  other  foods,  that  is 
eminently  suited  to  most  climates  and  con- 
ditions. That  the  judicious  use  of  it  will  add 
to  the  comfort  and  health  of  the  well-to-do  is 
no  less  true  than  that  the  knowledge  of  its 
proper  use  may  be  a  boon  to  such  as  wish  to 
exercise  due  economy. 


io8  American  Indian  Corn 

It  has  been  said  that  dyspepsia  kills  more 
people  than  spirits.  It  is  certainly  true  that 
the  constitution  and  the  character  are  being 
undermined  by  this  insidious  foe.  This  is  not 
so  much  the  result  of  over-feeding  and  hasty 
eating  as  from  the  character  of  the  food  con- 
sumed. Dyspepsia  is  the  bane  of  those  whose 
bread  must  be  of  the  superfine  order,  and  who 
despise  foods  that  are  not  expensive. 

Horace  Mann  said  in  his  lectures  to  young 
men  nearly  half  a  century  ago:  *^No  glutton 
or  dyspeptic  can  stand  up  alongside  a  man 
with  a  sound  stomach.  '*  The  first  organ  that 
Nature  made  for  a  living  creature  was  a 
stomach.  The  first  lesson  of  education  is  how 
to  eat.  It  is  the  most  important  as  well  as  the 
first.  If  proper  habits  of  eating  are  formed  by 
the  young,  and  the  principles  that  underlie 
the  science  of  nutrition  are  understood  by 
them,  they  can  then  be  more  safely  entrusted 
to  the  college,  which  is  generally  the  paradise 
of  ignorance  and  stupidity  in  all  matters  per- 
taining to  the  stomach.  Brains  are  supposed 
by  the  schoolmen  to  be  alone  worthy  of  con- 
sideration. To  give  head  culture  is  the  object 
of  the  college,  and  the  course  of  nutriment  is 
so  much  neglected  that  good  head  work 
becomes  impossible.  An  active  mind  is  the 
aim,  whether  or  no  the  body  be  sound — ^and 


American  Indian  Com  109 

on  this  principle  the  schools  often  ruin  the 
best  brains,  while  the  coarser  fellows,  with 
sound  stomachs,  first  reach  the  goal  of  success. 

The  possession  of  a  good  digestive  organ  is 
more  important  than  that  of  good  eyes,  good 
ears,  a  large  brain;  for  these  all  depend  for 
their  health  upon  the  nerves  of  nutrition;  and 
if  not  properly  supplied  the  organs  lose  their 
power  of  acting,  and  become  of  little  force. 
There  can  be  neither  clear  vision,  good  hear- 
ing, nor  sound  mental  perception,  long  con- 
tinued, except  through  that  nutrition  which 
comes  from  properly  digested  food.  Nine 
tenths  of  the  work  of  the  schools  is  wasted 
because  of  indigestion.  The  dyspeptic  stom- 
ach renders  useless  the  finest  brain. 

Is  it  necessary  to  follow  this  subject  into 
the  realm  of  morals  and  piety?  Fretfulness, 
moroseness,  irritability,  animalism,  brutality, 
all  may  plead  excuse  in  a  foul  stomach. 
These  fill  homes  with  sorrow,  and  from  these 
come  the  so-called  greater  crimes  and  misfor- 
tunes which  people  oiu:  prisons  and  our  hos- 
pitals. 

Writers  by  the  score  can  be  quoted  to  show 
how  cheap  food  vitally  affects  the  well-being 
of  the  people.  Andrew  Carnegie,  the  eminent 
American  financier  and  philanthropist,  says, 
in  his   book,    Triumphant  Democracy:    ''The 


no  American  Indisoi  Com 

close  relation  which  exists  between  poverty 
and  crime  has  received  verification  and  re- 
peated emphasis.  It  has  been  shown  that  a 
rise  in  the  price  of  breadstiiffs  is  attended  by 
an  increase  of  robberies  —  cheap  food^  on  the 
other  hand,  is  accompanied  by  a  diminution  of 
crime,  and  scientific  principle  is  thus  added  to 
sentiment  in  the  song  of  The  English  Roast 
Beef— 

"The  man  that's  well  fed,  Sir, 
Can  never  do  ill." 

The  necessity  of  the  hour  is  to  find  and  apply 
a  preventive  rather  than  a  cure.  The  latter 
is  often  difficult  where  the  former  may  be 
easy.  If  it  be  true  that  Nature  makes  no 
mistakes,  may  it  not  be  that  in  the  free  use  of 
the  most  abundant  food  she  has  provided  is  to 
be  found  the  panacea  for  the  many  ills  growing 
out  of  indigestion?  It  is  not  reasonable  to 
expect  that  all  will  accept  this  thought  kindly. 
The  haughty  Syrian  refused  to  wash  in  the 
waters  of  the  himible  Jordan,  and  preferred 
to  live  in  his  uncleanness  rather  than  demean 
himsfelf  before  his  fellows.  His  life  ended 
thousands  of  years  ago,  but  his  race  is  not 
extinct. 

Maize  is  used  in  a  few  other  countries  as  a 
porridge,  or  pudding,  and  in  this  condition  is 


American  Indian  Com  in 

eaten  alone  or  with  meat,  syrup,  milk,  or  other 
agreeable  foods.  In  Ireland  such  a  dish  is 
known  as  stir-about,  and  in  Italy  as  polenta. 

In  tropical  coimtries  maize  grows  to  a  great 
height,  and  three  crops  may  be  produced  in  a 
year.  I  have  seen  this  on  the  Rio  Grande 
River  in  Mexico,  in  Southern  California,  and 
in  South  Africa.  I  have  witnessed  two  crops 
a  year  gathered  in  the  interior  of  China,  and 
saw  it  grow  luxuriantly  on  the  island  of  Juan 
Fernandez  in  the  South  Atlantic  Ocean.  In 
high  latitudes  varieties  that  mature  in  fifty 
days  are  grown,  and  the  stalks  are  not  more 
than  thirty  inches  high.  The  variations  in 
the  plant  as  well  as  the  grain  are  many.  The 
sweet  varieties,  and  notably  those  with 
wrinkled  kernels,  form  a  deUcious  food  when 
boiled  as  whole  ears,  and  make  a  part  of 
numerous  dishes  when  cut  from  the  cob  and 
combined  with  other  vegetables  and  meats. 
The  green  ears  roasted  on  the  hearth,  or  by  the 
burning  heaps  in  the  old-time  clearing,  or 
cooked  by  being  buried  in  the  hot  embers  and 
ashes,  made  many  of  the  long  remembered 
and  toothsome  feasts  of  the  pioneers  of  the 
forest. 

When  in  this  unripe  condition,  otir  grand- 
mothers cut  the  grains  from  the  cob  and  dried 
them  by  the  fijre  or  in  the  sun.     Tablecloths 


112  American  Indisin  Com 

were  spread  upon  the  roofs  of  the  cabin; 
platforms  were  extemporized  from  rough 
boards;  pans  were  brought  into  use,  and 
during  the  brief  season  of  drying  the  thrifty 
housewife  spared  not,  but  laid  up  stores  for  the 
winter.  This  was  a  custom  derived  from  the 
aborigines  from  whose  tripod  hung  the  pot  of 
half -dried  meat  mingled  with  corn,  and  kept 
the  gaimt  wolf  from  the  wigwam. 

Their  penned  corn,  shelled  and  parched, 
often  appeased  the  htmger  of  the  savage,  as 
well  as  that  of  the  white  man  who  was  upon  his 
retreating  steps.  When  mills  for  grinding  were 
distant  some  days'  journey,  and  the  route  was 
over  the  trackless  waste,  and  the  storm  was  in 
the  air,  many  a  family  on  the  Western  prairie 
has  lived  on  parched  corn  until  a  supply  of 
other  food  coiild  be  had. 

The  hominy  mortar  is  now  only  a  tradition. 
To  our  grandfathers  and  more  remote  an- 
cestors it  was  a  beautiful  reality.  In  its  most 
substantial  and  effective  form  it  was  made  by 
excavating  a  large  and  deep  bowl  in  the  top 
of  an  oaken  stump.  The  finishing  touches 
were  made  by  fire,  and  when  with  great  pa- 
tience it  was  smoothly  finished  it  was  a  work 
of  art.  The  pestle  to  this  huge  mortar  was  of 
hard  wood,  rounded  on  the  end,  sometimes 
tipped  with  an   iron  wedge,  and  suspended 


AmericELti  Indian  Com  115 

from  a  spring-pole  over  the  mortar.  By- 
means  of  this  implement  the  hulls  were  beaten 
and  worn  from  the  flinty  grains  which  were 
more  or  less  broken  in  the  process,  and  the 
resiiltant  product  was  called  hominy.  The 
word  is  a  corruption  of  the  Indian  name  for 
parched  corn.  In  this  form  it  was  boiled  in 
water,  and  dressed  with  milk  or  cream,  and 
seasoned  to  the  taste. 

So  popular  and  so  palatable  was  this  dish 
that  in  some  parts  of  Indiana,  and  Kentucky 
its  use  was  not  abandoned  for  many  years 
after  the  grinding  process  supplanted  it  by  a 
saving  of  the  labor  and  care  in  its  prepara- 
tion. In  the  latter  State  its  manufacture  by 
aged  negroes  was  not  uncommon  forty  years 
ago,  and,  possibly,  is  not  to-day.  Hand- 
made hominy  was  bought  as  a  luxury  after 
the  grinding  mills  made  the  cheaper  article 
a  common  food. 

Another  dish  called  hominy  was  made  by 
eating  the  hulls  from  the  grain  with  a  strong 
lye  of  wood  ashes.  It  was  also  cal  ed  hulled 
com — and  was  boiled  in  water  till  thoroughly 
cooked.  It  was  eaten  with  milk,  or  heated  in 
a  frying  pan  with  butter,  or  grease  from  the 
fried  pork,  and  was  a  favorite  breakfast  dish. 
This  kind  of  hominy  was  especially  popular 
with  the  early  settlers  in  Pennsylvania,  and  is 


114  American  Indian  Com 

still  a  favored  dish  among  their  descendants. 
In  countries  where  coal  is  the  leading  fuel,  the 
hulls  may  be  taken  off  by  using  potash. 

In  these  forms  and  in  that  of  breads  made 
from  corn  ground  on  the  primitive  mills  of  the 
remote  settlements,  this  grain,  with  pork,  lard, 
and  bacon,  was  the  basis  of  the  common  food 
of  the  people,  and  in  the  unstinted  hospitality 
of  those  times  everybody  was  invited  to  par- 
take of  *'hog  and  hominy"  wherever  they 
might  happen  to  be  at  the  hour  for  meals. 
This  was  the  pioneer  grain,  and  the  principal 
food  of  the  pioneer.  It  cost  little  for  labor 
and  less  for  seed,  and  in  the  absence  of  means 
of  transportation  the  market  price  was  merely 
nominal  when  it  was  abundant.  Hogs  were 
raised  in  half  or  wholly  wild  state,  and  fattened 
upon  the  must.  Cattle  ran  on  the  range  in 
summer,  and  a  trifle  of  hay  or  the  cane-brake 
put  them  through  the  winter.  Milk,  meat,  and 
eggs  were  the  proper  supplement  to  the  nu- 
trient  elements  in  the  corn,  and  on  these  foods 
there  was  grown  a  race  never  surpassed  in 
health  and  vigor  in  all  the  world's  history .j' 

MUSH  AND  MILK 

Hmong  the  earliest  and  most  poptilar  dishes 
following  the  introduction  of  mills  was  pud- 


American  Indian  Com  115 

ding,  or  "mush'*  from  corn  meal.  In  its 
simplest  form  it  was  made  by  stirring  the  meal 
into  boiling  water,  seasoning  with  salt,  and 
keeping  the  pot  at  a  boiling  heat  until  ^e 
pudding  was  done  to  the  taste.  This  dish  with 
milk  often  made  the  evening  meal.  The  family 
would  surround  the  table,  each  with  a  bowl, 
porringer,  or  tin  cup,  into  which  milk  was 
poured,  and  each  with  a  spoon  helped  himself 
from  the  great  dish  of  pudding  in  the  center. 
A  large  spoonful  of  the  pudding  was  placed 
in  the  milk  in  each  individual  porringer,  and 
eaten  by  the  possessor  at  his  pleastire.  In 
some  cases  the  mush  was  eaten  with  butter 
instead  of  milk.  Some  preferred  it  with  mo- 
lasses. In  the  time  of  making  maple  sugar  or 
syrup  the  yoimg  folks  had  a  faculty  for  mak- 
ing a  combination  of  these  elements — often 
surreptitiously — ^that  was  highly  satisfactory. 
The  customary  method  of  serving  left-over 
mush  for  breakfast  was  in  the  fonn  of  "fried 
mush,'*  a  dish  happily  not  yet  forgotten  and 
never  despised  in  the  cuisine  of  the  most 
fashionable  families  and  hotels  of  the  present 
day. 

BREADS 

!f6ut  the  primitive  breads  made  from  com 
meal  were  not  to  be  despised.     These,  with  the 


ii6  American  Indian  Com 

great  open  fire-place,  the  huge  crane,  the 
grotesque  irons,  the  blazing  logs,  the  beds  of 
embers,  coals,  and  hot  ashes,  and  the  jamb  on 
which  our  grandmothers  whetted  the  knife 
with  which  the  smoked  ham  was  cut  for  the 
frying  pan,  have  all  disappeared.  They  re- 
main only  in  the  memories  of  the  aged, 
savory  and  sweet  smelling,  and  suggestive  of 
joys  that  are  past. 

Of  these  our  grandmothers  have  described 
with  enthusiasm  the  corn-dodger.  ■  In  its 
best  estate  it  was  a  carefidly  mixed  and  sea- 
soned dough  made  from  corn  meal  and  water, 
wrapped  in  wet  corn-husks,  pressed  into  a 
fiat  form,  and  baked  in  the  hot  coals  and  ashes. 
These  cakes  were  brought  to  the  table  directly 
from  the  glowing  hearth,  broken  (not  cut), 
and  eaten  with  butter  or  hot  gravy  from  fried 
ham.  In  later  days  there  was  a  counterfeit 
of  the  same  name,  baked  in  iron  skillets,  but 
without  the  flavor  of  hickory  ashes,-  and  did 
not  belong  to  the  same  family. 

The  ''johnny-cake"  and  hoe-cake  are  of  the 
same  era  as  the  ash-cake,  or  "dodger,"  and 
were  baked  before  the  fire,  rather  than  in  the 
coals.  The  hoe-cake  is  supposed  to  have 
taken  its  name  from  the  dough  having  been 
spread  upon  a  hoe  near  the  fire  till  baked. 
The  johnny-cake  was  made  by  spreading  the 


American  Indian  Corn  117 

dough  rather  thinly  upon  a  board  (commonly 
a  split  clap-board,  or  ''shake/'  made  for 
roofing  the  cabin) ,  and  placing  the  same  upon 
the  hearth,  so  arranging  it  that  the  heat 
would  bake  it  rapidly  without  biirning  it. 
But  these  breads  passed  out  of  fashion  as 
cast-iron  griddles,  skillets,  and  ovens  came 
into  use. 

With  these  came  the  more  elaborate  cakes 
and  loaves  into  which  milk  and  eggs  entered, 
some  of  which  were  called  ''pones, ''  corrupted 
from  the  "paune*'  of  the  Indians.  Some  of 
these  breads  have  a  degree  of  popularity  even 
at  the  present  day. 

HOW  TO   GRIND 

^he  importance  of  the  manner  of  grinding 
com  for  human  food  is  not  generally  under- 
stood. The  steam-mill  with  its  huge  burr 
mill-stones,  in  the  hands  of  a  miller  whose 
ambition  is  quantity,  and  who  knows  nothing 
of  quality,  cuts  and  bums  all  the  life  out  of  the 
meal,  and  leaves  it  a  heavy,  dead  mass.  The 
cook  may  use  all  the  customary  appliances 
for  making  light  and  palatable  bread,  but  all 
in  vain.  The  small  millstones  that  were 
driven  by  horse-power,  the  capacity  of  which 
was  about  three  bushels  per  hour,  and  through 


ii8  American  Indian  Corn 

which  the  meal  came  cool  and  lively,  with  a 
''grain"  perceptible  to  the  touch,  when 
manipulated  by  a  miller  who  knew  exactly  the 
desired  quality,  gave  results  quite  satisfactory. 
Next  to  this  the  old  country  custom-mill, 
driven  by  water,  made  the  best  meal.  This 
fact  is  of  prime  importance, 

QUALITY 

^here  are  also  great  differences  in  the  quali- 
ties of  the  corn  from  which  meal  for  family 
use  is  made.  Without  entering  upon  a  dis- 
cussion of  the  endless  varieties  of  corn,  and 
of  their  constituents,  it  may  simply  be  said 
that  bright,  clean,  white  flint  corn  ought  to 
satisfy  the  most  fastidious.  It  may  also  be 
mentioned  that  it  should  be  as  fresh  from  the 
mill  as  may  be  practicable.  If  allowed  to 
mass  together  for  a  few  weeks,  even  though  it 
may  not  heat,  it  loses  its  quality. 

The  farmer  who  grinds  for  his  live  stock, 
may  often  select  with  a  sieve,  from  corn  of 
good  quality,  ground  at  home,  better  meal 
for  his  table  than  he  can  get  at  the  mills  and 
stores.  It  is  hoped  that  this  hint  may  not  be 
lost  on  the  wife  of  the  farmer  who  has  a  feed 
mill.  To  make  this  entirely  certain,  every 
farmer  who  has  such  a  mill  would  do  well  to 


American  Indian  Com  119 

plant  sufficient  white  flint  corn  to  supply  his 
own  table,  and  have  some  to  spare  for  his  less 
fortunate  neighbors. 

HYGIENE 

ZChe  use  of  Indian  com  as  human  food  has 
been  so  greatly  diminished  within  the  past 
forty  years  as  to  demand  an  explanation.  Is 
it  because  it  has  been  supplanted  by  foods  that 
are  more  healthful  or  more  palatable?  Is  it 
because  of  any  necessary  difficulty  in  its 
manipulation?  Can  it  be  that  it  has  simply 
fallen  into  disuse  because  it  is  so  abundant  and 
so  cheap  as  to  become  tmfashionable?  All  of 
these  propositions  except  the  last  may  un- 
hesitatingly be  answered  in  the  negative. 

Its  healthful  character  may  be  argued  both 
from  its  inherent  qualities  and  its  history  as 
a  food.  When  properly  prepared  it  is  highly 
nutritious,  especially  in  the  winter,  and  is,  of 
itself,  a  preventive  and  cure  of  that  worst  foe 
to  the  health  of  those  engaged  in  sedentary 
occupations,  namely  constipation.  This  is 
probably  not  due  to  any  peculiar  element 
which  it  contains,  but  most  likely  to  its 
mechanical  properties,  by  which  it  stimtilates 
the  peristaltic  action  of  the  alimentary  canal. 
However  that  may  be  the  fact  remains;  and 


120  American  Indian  Com 

it  is  not  possible  to  assert  with  confidence  that 
a  liberal  use  of  the  various  foods  prepared  from 
corn  meal  would  not  very  greatly  ameliorate 
the  condition  of  many  who  are  sufferers  from 
the  too  constant  use  of  fine  flour  and  other 
too  highly  concentrated  foods.  Many  experi- 
ments within  my  knowledge  are  strong  proofs 
to  me  that  in  many  cases  foods  from  Indian 
corn  are  worthy  of  a  fair  trial  for  health  alone. 

It  is  stated  upon  good  authority  that  the 
use  of  com  meal  as  a  food  once  each  day  for 
five  months  has  been  known  to  cure  an  obstin- 
ate case  of  dyspepsia.  The  reasonableness  of 
this  statement  is  enhanced  by  the  fact  that 
this  disease  was  scarcely  known  in  America 
fifty  years  ago ;  and  when  it  is  considered  that 
the  inordinate  use  of  hog  products  was  more  or 
less  frequent  at  that  time,  is  it  not  reasonable 
to  suppose  that  Indian  corn  measurably 
prevented  unfortunate  results  from  the  other- 
wise gross  diet  of  that  period? 

Reader,  remember  that  what  is  put  forth  is 
in  the  interest  of  better  as  well  as  cheaper 
food.  If  any  one  shall  pass  it  by  with  a  sneer 
because  it  treats  of  the  possibilities  of  a  food 
that  is  within  the  reach  of  the  poor  as  well  as 
the  rich,  let  such  an  one  reject  also  the  fresh 
air  and  every  other  universal  blessing.  But, 
let  it  be  remembered  that  while  Indian  com  is 


American  Indian  Corn  121 

so  plentiful  and  cheap,  and  that  waste  is  the 
rule  rather  than  the  exception,  yet  there  is  no 
excellence  even  in  the  foods  prepared  there- 
from, unless  care  and  wisdom  unite  in  the  se- 
lection of  the  material  and  in  its  manipulation. 

Having  with  some  care  investigated  this 
subject,  I  conclude  it  is  the  duty  of  each  one  to 
live  up  to  his  privileges.  If  it  has  been  given 
to  us  to  have  better  methods  than  the  savages 
who  once  claimed  our  fair  land,  or  even  better 
methods  than  were  possible  to  the  pioneer 
settlers,  we  shall  only  prove  ourselves  worthy 
of  the  better  methods  by  exemplifying  them 
in  our  lives,  and  teaching  them  to  others  who 
know  not  of  them.  If  we  live  up  to  our 
privileges  we  shall  be  far  from  treating  God's 
most  abundant  gifts  with  scorn. 

Nature  makes  no  mistakes.  She  provides 
a  diet  suited  to  every  climate.  The  Green- 
lander  has  his  blubber;  the  inhabitant  of  the 
torrid  zone  has  his  fruits,  while  the  Southern 
Briton  in  his  milder  environment  takes  his 
grass  at  the  second  remove  in  the  form  of 
beef.  The  American  has  been  bounteously 
provided  for.  His  fields  wave  with  grass;  his 
cribs  are  bursting  with  corn;  the  cattle  on  a 
thousand  hills  are  his ;  and  he  may  take  his  corn 
in  the  ear,  in  the  grain,  from  the  hands  of  the 
miller  and  the  cook ;  or  he  may  have  it  at  the 


122  American  Indian  Com 

second  remove  in  savory  roast  or  stew  of  cc«ii- 
fed  beef,  or  corn-fed  mutton,  or  corn-fed 
pork  or  bacon,  and  not  foolishly  flout  a  wise 
Providence. 

But  while  Indian  com  is  a  standard  and 
necessary  food,  in  its  crude  forms,  as  well  as  in 
those  of  bread  and  porridge,  it  has,  in  its 
finest  flours,  and  in  certain  forms  of  cornstarch 
been  introduced,  and  is  used  in  the  preparation 
of  dessert  puddings  and  blanc  mange,  for 
which  it  seems  better  fitted  than  the  flour  or 
wheat.  Thus  millions  find  nutriment,  and 
other  millions  agreeable  variety,  and  even 
luxury,  in  the  various  preparations  of  Indian 
corn. 

FRESH  MEAL 

fIDeal  as  well  as  flour  is  liable  to  lose  its  best 
quality  by  want  of  care,  or  the  mere  lapse  of 
time.  Dampness  may  be  absorbed  from  what 
seems  to  be  a  dry  atmosphere.  Heat  and 
moisture  very  rapidly  affect  even  com  in  the 
ear,  or  shelled,  but  much  more  rapidly  when 
ground. 

Insects  seem  to  be  attracted  by  the  sweet 
scent  of  freshly  ground  meal,  and  to  have  an 
instinct  to  deposit  their  eggs  therein.  Its 
almost  imperceptible  fermentation  produces 


American  Indian  Com  123 

heat  that  soon  starts  them  Into  life,  and  the 
quality  of  the  meal  Is  destroyed  long  before 
there  Is  any  visible  mold,  or  other  unfavorable 
sign  apparent  to  the  common  observer.  But 
the  Intelligent  cook,  by  sight,  or  touch,  or 
smell,  will  detect  age  in  the  meal,  and  turn  it 
to  another  destination  than  the  human  stom- 
ach. Good  bread,  or  any  other  preparation 
from  Indian  meal  for  the  food  of  man,  can 
only  be  made  from  freshly  groimd  com,  and 
from  that  which  has  been  grotmd  upon  a 
mill  adapted  to  that  pinpose.  Of  late  years 
this  obstacle  to  its  use  has  been  very  much 
overcome  by  kiln-drying  the  meal.  By  this 
means  the  moisture  Is  dried  out  of  It,  and  it 
can  be  shipped  long  distances  and  kept  a 
considerable  while  without  the  slightest  de- 
terioration. Great  quantities  of  kiln-dried 
meal  is  sent  to  the  West  Indies  annually,  one 
firm  in  Ohio  alone  sending  there  fifteen  thou- 
sand barrels  a  year. 

SOUTHERN  CORN 

ZThere  are  many  varieties  of  com.  They 
show  under  analysis  their  elements  in  different 
proportions.  Some  of  these  are  better  suited 
than  others  to  table  uses.  The  savage  In- 
dians raised  the  sorts  that  were  most  palatable 


124  American  Indian  Corn 

under  their  simple  modes  of  cooking.  The 
Southern  planter  grows  the  white  flint  corn 
for  his  table,  and  the  larger,  softer,  yellow 
corn  for  his  mules,  pigs,  and  poultry.  The 
Northern  farmer,  with  equal  knowledge  of 
quality,  and  more  careful  of  details,  should,  by 
selection,  be  able  to  use  the  best  variety  for 
every  purpose,  with  results  of  great  impor- 
tance to  our  interests  in  the  matter  of  food 
supply. 

These  are  facts  that  should  be  widely  known. 
Under  changed  conditions  in  the  South  there 
is  possibility  of  danger  that  some  of  the  cus- 
toms of  the  early  days  that  are  worth  preserva- 
tion may  become  obsolete; — and,  among 
others,  the  making  of  the  very  best  foods  from 
Indian  corn  may  finally  be  numbered  among 
the  lost  arts. 

ANALYSIS 

^he  elements  of  which  Indian  com  is  com- 
posed, in  the  proportions  in  which  they  are 
combined  in  the  best  varieties,  do  not  seem  to 
be  equally  suited  as  a  food  to  all  conditions. 
Being  carbonaceous  and  nitrogenous, — fat- 
forming  as  well  as  muscle-forming, — ^it  is  a 
better  food  in  winter  than  in  summer.  For  the 
same  reason  it  has  its  complementary  foods, 


American  Indian  Com  125 

which,  as  far  as  practicable,  shotild  be  eaten 
with  it.  These  are  the  albtiminoid  foods,  such 
as  eggs,  milk,  peas,  beans,  lean  meats,  etc. 

COMPOSITION   OF  CORN  MEAL 

Water 14.5 

Nutrients 85.5 

100 

Nutrients  consisting  of  Protein 9.1 

Fats 3.8 

Carbohydrates 71. 

Minerals 1.6 

"85^ 

A  comparison  of  the  calories  and  potential 
energy  of  com  meal  with  that  of  wheat  and 
potatoes  gives  the  following  figures  for  i 
pound  of  each  of  the  articles  mentioned  as 
follows : 

Corn  Meal 1650 

Wheat 1660 

Potatoes 395 

The  above  figtures  are  taken  from  tables  in 
a  work  on  human  dietary,  issued  in  1889,  by 
United  States  Surgeon- General  John  S.  Bil- 
lings of  Washington,  a  graduate  of  both  Edin- 
burgh and  Harvard  Colleges. 


126  American  Indian  Com 

Note. — The  composition  of  maize,  as  given 
by  Pa  YEN,  is  as  follows: 

Starch 67.55 

Gluten  or  zea 12.50 

Dextrine  or  gum 4.00 

Fatty  matter 8.80 

Cellulose 5.90 

Salts  or  ashes 1.25 

It  is  no  doubt  from  the  excess  of  oily  matter, 
which,  as  seen  above,  is  about  nine  pounds  in 
every  one  hundred,  that  the  meal  is  so  prone 
to  change  by  its  attracting  oxygen  from  the 
atmosphere.  This  explains  what  is  said  else- 
where as  to  the  difficulties  that  svirround 
its  preservation  on  sea  voyages  and  when 
stored  in  hot  or  damp  climates. 


INDEX 

PAGES 

Apple  Johnnycake ...     59 

Ash  Cake 50 

Bannocks 55 

Bavarian  Cream 99 

Beef  Scrapple 33 

Biscuit 65 

Blanc  Mange 95 

Brown  Bread 55»  61,  62 

Canada  Cream 95 

Chicken  Sausage 33 

Chowder 77 

Clams 88 

Coffee 44 

Com  Bread..45,  47,  48,  49»  50,  52,  53,  54,  56,  57,  58,  59.  60-66 

Com  Chilo 90 

Corniettes 35 

Com  Meal  for  Breading 34 

Cornstarch 96, 103 

Crackers 104 

Crackling  Com  Bread 60 

Creole  Cakes 67 

Crispets 67 

Crumpets 67 

Custard 89 

Desserts 93 

Dodgers 73 

Doughnuts 63 

Dried  Corn 83 

Dumplings 71 

Fish  Cakes 31 

Flapjacks 72 

Fritters 70,  81,  88 

Frozen  Custards 96 

Fmit 93 

Gems 68 

Gingerbread 62 

Gluten  Com  Bread 64 

Green  Com  Cookery 76-93 

Griddlecakes 70,  72 

Gruel 34 

127 


128  Index 

PAGES 

Ham  Muffins .^ 42 

Hasty  Pudding 28 

Hoe  Cake 50 

Hominy 37-41 

Indian  Nocake 51 

Johnnycake 51 

Joumeycake 51 

Madeira  Milho 42 

Maizena  Cake 99 

Massachusetts  Indian  Cake 52 

Mock  Cantaloupe loi 

Muffins 66,  68 

Mush 28,  30,  31 

Omelette 82 

Onia  Tei  Da 83 

Oysters 81 

Parched  Corn 74 

Pemmican 35 

Pie 88 

Pinole 44 

Polenta 29 

Pone 53 

Popcorn 73,74,95 

Pork  Scrapple 32 

Pralines 74 

Prune  Mold 98 

Pudding 80,  89, 93-95, 97-105 

Puffs 103 

Pumpkin  Corn  Bread 63 

Pur6e 76 

Rice 60 

Rolls 65 

Salad 87 

Salad  Dressing 75 

Samp 42 

Sandwiches 88,  103 

Scones 58 

Scrapple 32,  33 

Shortcake 102 

Slappers 56 

Souffle 90 

Soup 76,  78 

Soup  Sticks 60 

Succotash 78,  80 

Tapioca 100 

Tutti  Frutti 105 

Vegetarian  Roast 34 

Waffles 69,  70,  82 


Ji  Selection  from  the 
■  Catalogue  of 

C.  P.  PUTNAM'S  SONS 


Complete  Catalogue  ^ent 
on  application 


Mrs.  Norton's  Cook 
Book 


By 

Mrs.  J.  Y.  Norton 

;  ^,    $250 

A  collection  of  hundreds  of  original  recipes, 
all  tested  and  many  prize  winners,  some  of 
which  have  been  reproduced  from  the  press, 
that  stands  as  the  result  of  twenty  years  of 
cooking  experience  and  fifteen  years  of  writ- 
ing on  household  topics.  In  the  book  are 
features  never  before  included  in  any  cook 
book — the  making  of  canapes  and  relishes, 
for  instance,  and  garnishes,  and  many  sorts  of 
new  things, — something  really  new,  indeed,  in 
almost  every  chapter,  and  ever  practical. 
The  recipes  are  exact,  the  quantities  are  all 
given, — the  time  of  cooking,  and  the  season- 
ableness  and  appropriateness  of  the  dishes. 
The  book  will  lie  open  without  a  weight,  an 
item  which  every  housewife  will  appreciate. 


G.  P.  Putnam's  Sons 

New  York  London 


Hints  on  Vegetable 

i 

By 

Mae  Savell  Croy 

12°,    $i.So  net.    By  mail,  $i.6o 

A  complete  guide  for  the  amateur 
gardener,  containing  many  hints  for  the 
old-timer  as  welL  In  this  volume  the 
author  has  included  instructions  with 
regard  to  all  the  vegetables  commonly- 
supplied  to  the  markets.  Each  plant  is 
treated  individually  with  regard  to  soil, 
condition,  transplanting  and  thinning, 
cultivation,  watering,  insects  and  how 
to  get  rid  of  them,  together  with  recipes 
for  a  number  of  effective  spraying  solu- 
tions. The  vegetables  are  listed  alpha- 
betically, numbering  69  in  all,  and  in 
addition  there  are  chapters  devoted  to 
fruits,  large  and  small.  Suggestions  are 
given  on  how  to  care  for  the  trees  and 
vines  and  how  to  produce  the  largest 
fruits  and  berries  with  the  finest  flavors. 
The  author  even  touches  upon  nut  trees 
and  the  advantages  in  planting  them. 

G.  P.  Putnam's  Sons 

New  York  London 


1000  Things  a  Mother 
Should  Know 

By 
Mae  Savell  Croy 

Author  of  "  1000  Shorter  Ways  Around  the  House,**  etc 

12^     Price,  $1,50 

Information  is  given  regarding  tiny  babies 
and  growing  children:  their  clothes,  their 
care,  their  food,  their  training,  and  their  en- 
tertainment. The  book  embraces  everything 
from  the  prenatal  precautions  to  be  observed 
by  the  prospective  mother  to  the  rearing  of 
the  child  to  a  healthy  adolescence.  Not  only 
are  the  bodily  needs  intelligently  specified,  but 
the  character-building  influences  that  should 
surround  the  child  are  conveyed  in  the  excel- 
lent suggestions  offered.  Health  rules  and 
medical  care,  hygiene  and  sick-room  sugges- 
tions, are  a  valuable  supplement  to  the  chap- 
ters dealing  with  the  treatment  of  the  child 
when  in  health.  Arranged  under  appropriate 
headings  and  comprehensively  indexed. 


G.  P.  Putnam's  Sons 

New  York  London 


1000  Shorter  Ways 
Around  the  House 

A  Handbook  of  the  Home,  Its  Building^  Its 
Furnishing^  Its  Management 

By 

Mae  Savell  Croy 

12®.      $1.50 

"Indispensable  to  the  good  housekeeper. 
Its  concise,  useful  information,  covering  every 
phase  of  the  internal  regime,  is  arranged  under 
appropriate  headings  which,  even  without  the 
aid  of  the  comprehensive  index  that  is  sup- 
plied, guide  the  reader  to  the  facts  he  seeks. 
The  book  embraces  everything  from  the  erec- 
tion and  furnishing  of  the  home  to  its  main- 
tenance, according  to  the  highest  standards  of 
comfort,  cleanliness,  and  order.  For  every 
problem  and  emergency  the  author  offers  a 
solution." — Omaha  Bee* 

G.  P.  Putnam's  Sons 

New  York  London 


LIBRARY  OF  CONGRESS 


0  014  637  104  8 


