Google 


This  is  a  digital  copy  of  a  book  that  was  preserved  for  generations  on  Hbrary  shelves  before  it  was  carefully  scanned  by  Google  as  part  of  a  project 

to  make  the  world's  books  discoverable  online. 

It  has  survived  long  enough  for  the  copyright  to  expire  and  the  book  to  enter  the  public  domain.  A  public  domain  book  is  one  that  was  never  subject 

to  copyright  or  whose  legal  copyright  term  has  expired.  Whether  a  book  is  in  the  public  domain  may  vary  country  to  country.  Public  domain  books 

are  our  gateways  to  the  past,  representing  a  wealth  of  history,  culture  and  knowledge  that's  often  difficult  to  discover. 

Marks,  notations  and  other  maiginalia  present  in  the  original  volume  will  appear  in  this  file  -  a  reminder  of  this  book's  long  journey  from  the 

publisher  to  a  library  and  finally  to  you. 

Usage  guidelines 

Google  is  proud  to  partner  with  libraries  to  digitize  public  domain  materials  and  make  them  widely  accessible.  Public  domain  books  belong  to  the 
public  and  we  are  merely  their  custodians.  Nevertheless,  this  work  is  expensive,  so  in  order  to  keep  providing  this  resource,  we  liave  taken  steps  to 
prevent  abuse  by  commercial  parties,  including  placing  technical  restrictions  on  automated  querying. 
We  also  ask  that  you: 

+  Make  non-commercial  use  of  the  files  We  designed  Google  Book  Search  for  use  by  individuals,  and  we  request  that  you  use  these  files  for 
personal,  non-commercial  purposes. 

+  Refrain  fivm  automated  querying  Do  not  send  automated  queries  of  any  sort  to  Google's  system:  If  you  are  conducting  research  on  machine 
translation,  optical  character  recognition  or  other  areas  where  access  to  a  large  amount  of  text  is  helpful,  please  contact  us.  We  encourage  the 
use  of  public  domain  materials  for  these  purposes  and  may  be  able  to  help. 

+  Maintain  attributionTht  GoogXt  "watermark"  you  see  on  each  file  is  essential  for  informing  people  about  this  project  and  helping  them  find 
additional  materials  through  Google  Book  Search.  Please  do  not  remove  it. 

+  Keep  it  legal  Whatever  your  use,  remember  that  you  are  responsible  for  ensuring  that  what  you  are  doing  is  legal.  Do  not  assume  that  just 
because  we  believe  a  book  is  in  the  public  domain  for  users  in  the  United  States,  that  the  work  is  also  in  the  public  domain  for  users  in  other 
countries.  Whether  a  book  is  still  in  copyright  varies  from  country  to  country,  and  we  can't  offer  guidance  on  whether  any  specific  use  of 
any  specific  book  is  allowed.  Please  do  not  assume  that  a  book's  appearance  in  Google  Book  Search  means  it  can  be  used  in  any  manner 
anywhere  in  the  world.  Copyright  infringement  liabili^  can  be  quite  severe. 

About  Google  Book  Search 

Google's  mission  is  to  organize  the  world's  information  and  to  make  it  universally  accessible  and  useful.   Google  Book  Search  helps  readers 
discover  the  world's  books  while  helping  authors  and  publishers  reach  new  audiences.  You  can  search  through  the  full  text  of  this  book  on  the  web 

at|http  :  //books  .  google  .  com/| 


'J 


^ 


u^^ 


iV 


r  .  •.. 


V 


^ 


4 


^»  " 


wWV 


V 


\ 


I 


\ 


li 


Ii^n 


fvowXi&T^utt . 


I 


X^^tkfe^,^ 


JojJSE^^fTfil^' 


\    \ 


.<  • 


I 


%A.  -> 


.i 


MODERN  SYSTEM 

OF 

DOMESTIC  COOKERY; 

OR,  THB 

BoussxianPBBpV  auzsBi 

ABRANGED  ON  THE  MOST  ECONOMICAL  PLAN 

FOB 
€ONTAIMIKG 


The  nott  approved  directions  for 
Pvrchaniigy  Preserving,  and 
Cooking  Botcher's  Meat,  Fish, 
Poultry,  and  Game. 

The  best  mode  of  Trassfaig  and 
Carving. 

The  art  of  composing  the  most 
simple  and  moat  hi^ly  finished 
Brcrtha,   Gravies,  Soaps,    and 


The  mysteries  of  Potting  and  Pick- 
Img. 

The  art  €i  making   all  sorts   of 
Confectionary  and  Pastry. 

An  improved  mettiod  of  making 
British  Wines  and  Cordials. 

Instractions  for  Brevring  and  Bak- 
ing. 

And,   Observations  on   CnUnary 
Poisons. 


A  COMPLETE 


•v,^ 


FAMILY  physician; 

AND 

mSTRUCnONS  to  FBMALS  SBRVANTS  in  BVBRY  SITUAnON, 

Sbowfaif  the  belt  metlioda  of  pctAinntiiK  thdr  variou  dotlei. 

THB  WHOLB  BEING  THB  RESULT  OF  ACTUAL  EXPERIMENTS. 


By  m.  ;^adcliffe. 

TO  WHICH  ABI  ADDED, 

AS  AN  APPENDIX, 

SOME  VALUABLE  INSTRUCTIONS  ON  THE  MATlAGBMENT 
OF  THE  KITCHEN  AND  FRUIT  GARDENS.  ' 


PRINTED   AMD  PUBLISHED  BY  J.  GLEAVS. 

No.  191,  Deaoagate. 


1823. 


I 


1  ♦.' 


n 
717 


\ 


1 


.    * 


PREFACE. 


CXMyKERY,  like  every  other  art,  has  been 
moving  forward  to  perfection  by  slow  degrees ; 
and  yet  daily  improvements  are  still  making,  as 
must  be  the  case  in  every  art  depending  upon 
fancy  and  taste.  In. the  production  of  the  pre- 
sent work  the  Editor  has  endeavoured  to  render 
it  reaDy  and  universally  useful ;  and  that  it  may 
be  so,  care  has  been  taken  to  insert  no  dish 
which  has  not  been  proved,  and  every  attention 
has  been  paid  in  directing  the  proportions  of 
each  ingredient  in  the  different  compositions,  not 
merely  to.make  them  inviting  to  the  appetite,  but 
agreeable  and  useful  to  the  stomach, — nourishing 
without  being  inflammatory,  and  savoury  without 
being  surfeiting.  At  the  same  time  the  Editor 
has  studied  to  describe  his  receipts  in  so  plain 
and  intelligible  a  manner,  that  they  may  be  as 
easily  understood  in  the  kitchen,  as  he  trusts 
they  will  be  relished  in  the  dining  room. 

Although  this  work  will  be  found  of  general 
utility  to  all  families  not  keeping  men-cooks,  yet 
it  is  hoped,  by  the  multiplicity  and  varied  nature 
of  the  receipts,  it  will  be  rendered  particularly 
serviceable  to  all  hotel  and  inn-keepers,  who 
will  readily  discover  ample  funds  of  refreshment, 
in  the -different  departments  of  culinary  science. 


IV.  PREFACE. 

Many  receipts  will  be  found  for  articles,  which 
being  in  daily  use,  the  mode  of  preparing  them 
may  be  supposed  too  well  known  to  require  a 
place  in  a  cookery  book ;  yet  as  we  rarely  meet 
with  butter  properly  melted,  good  toast  and 
water,  or  well-made  coffee,  &c.  there  is  no  apo- 
logy offered  for  minuteness  on  these  points. 

The  Editor  is  indeed  confident  that  no  book 
.  of  the  same  kind  ever  contained  a  more  truly 
valuable  and  complete  System-  of  Domestic 
Cookery.  Health,  economy,  and  elegance,  con- 
stitute its  leading  principles.  The  whole  has 
been  revised  by  an  experienced  cook  of  much 
celebrity,  and  who  has  communicated  several 
modem  improvements. 

Preceding  the  culinary  department  the  editor 
has  affixed  some  valuable  observations  on  domestic 
management y  the  importance  and  utility  of  which 
vrill  be  readily  acknowledged  by  the  judicious 
mistress  and  housekeeper. 

The  Art  of  Carving  is  a  necessary  branch  of 
information.  It  not  only  enables  a  woman  to  do 
the  honours  of  the  table,  but  makes  a  consider- 
able difference  in  the  consumption  of  a  family. 
In  the  following  sheets  the  proper  mode  of  carv- 
ing each  joint,  fowl  or  fish,  with  neatness  and 
dexterity,  is  clearly  pointed  out,  and  illustrated 
by  suitable  engravings, — ^an  attention  to  which 
will  greatly  facilitate  the  acquisition  of  this  use- 
ful and  elegant  art. 

The  Directions  for  Marketing  contain  much 
useful  information  respecting  the  quality  of  dif- 
ferent articles  of  provision ;  and  BiUs  of  Fare 


PREFACE.  V. 

are  giyen  in  sufficient  variety  to  enable  the  cook 
to  diversify  the  table  throughout  the  year. 

The  mode  of  covering  and  decorating  the  table 
is  a  matter  of  considerable  concern^  and  one 
that  admits  of  much  taste  and  judgment.  The 
instructions  on  this  head  Will  be  found  of  real 
use  to  the  young  ajid  inexperienced  housekeeper. 

The  respective  branches  of  Pastry  and  Ciw- 
fectionarjfy  with  the  best  methods  of  Potting^ 
Pickling  J  Preserving  y  &c.  are  given  in  the  clear- 
est and  most  intelligible  manner. 

The  instructions  for  Brewing  Malt  Liquor 
have  been  communicated  by  a  skilful  and  expe- 
rienced brewer,  and  are  adapted  to  families  in 
various  circumstances. 

The  mode  of  making  choice  British  Wines  hte 
lately  become  an  object  of  attention,  siilce 
foreign  wines  became  so  extremely  expensive. 
The  Editor,  having  had  much  experience  in  this 
l^epartment,  is  enabled  to  give  directions  that 
will  qualify  the  thrifty  female  to  excel  in  making 
and  managing  these  elegant  luxuries  of  life. 
Numerous  excellent  receipts  are  also  given  for 
making  compound^  imperial^  and  highly  Jlavoured 
Cordials  and  Liqveurs, 

The  articles  which  relate  to  Family  Medicine 
have  been  inserted  under  the  recommendation 
of  an  eminent  Physician.  They  will  tend  to 
explode  many  old,  absurd,  and  fatal  errors ;  to 
destroy  confidence  in  pernicious  nostrums ;  and 
to  teach  the  properest  mode  of  preserving  health. 
The  directions  given  in  case  of  accidents,  which 
demand  immediate  assistance,  ought  to  be  pos- 
sessed by  every  family. 


VI.  PKErACE. 


The  advice  to  fenude  servants  is  adapted  to  all 
the  vajrious  situationar  which  they  can  occirpy, 
and  contaiQB  such  valuable  information  as  may 
qualify  them  to  dkcharge  the  duties  of  their 
situations  with  credit  to  themselves,  and  satis- 
faction to  their  employers. 

The  Editor  has  appended  to  the  work  sbme 
usefVir  instructions  on  Gardening ,  in  which'  will 
be  fouud  a  concise  and  clear  sketch  of  the 
management  of  such:  articles  in  th6  vegetable 
system  as,  by  proper  atteiition,  may  be  had  in 
succession  from  the  month  of  January  to  that  of 
December. 

In  conclusion,  it  remains  only  to  be  stated,  that 
a  copiauLS  Index  is  annexed,  which,  it  is  hoped, 
will  be  perfectly  clear  and  useful  to  every  tmder- 
standing,  and  by  which  the  reader  may  imme- 
diiEttely  i^^r  to  any  article  in  the  book. 


CONTENTS. 


Pag€ 
Introduction , 

Observations  on  Domestic  Management 1 

Directions /or  Carving 13 

Directions  for  Trussing ...» 22 

Of  Marketing , 28 

Ohservatums  on  keeping  and  dressing  Meat 38 

Beef 44 

Veal 60 

Venison..... ...« 03 

Turtle  07 

Pwrk 103 

Mutton 127 

Lamb 140 

Fish  140 

Poultry  and  Game  108 

Broths,  SoupSf  Gravies,  and  Sauces 226 

Savoury  Pies  and  Patties 307 

Puddings 327 

Pancakes  and  Fritters 351 

Vegetables 356 

Salads   373 

Pastry  and  Confectionary 377 

Pleasant  and  Relishing  Dishes  466 

Pickles 481 

Bread,  Tsa-Cakes,  S^e 401 

Home  Brewery 502 

British  Wines,  Cordials,  fyc. 516 

Bills  of  Fare,  Family  Dinners,  Sfc 544 

Culinary  Poisons 553 

Family  Physician • 550 

Advice  to  Female  Servants 502 

Poultry  Yard 647 

Meansof  Destroying  Noxious  Insects,  Sfc 653 

On  Letting  and  Hiring  Houses  and  Lodgings 658 


!     . 


OBSERVATIONS 


1 


{ 
Oft  *  X    a" 


DOMESTIC  MANAGEMENT* 


/ 

Ik  the  variety  of  acquirements  which  adorn  the  feiiiale  sex^ 
domestic  occupations  stand  the  most  conspicuous,  atid  are  the 
most  useful.  A  well  arranj,red  and  steadily  conducted  system 
of  domestic  management  is  the  foundation  of  alt  the  comfort 
and  welfare  of  social  life,  and  of  private  families  in  particular; 
and^  where  this  is  wanting,  no  family  can  be  truly  respectable 
and  happy. 

It  is  a  cause  of  regret,-  that  in  general  females,  whose 
famHies  move  in  the  higher  circles  of  life,  frequently  despise 
fiunily  arrangements,  their  whole  time  and  attention  being 
absorbed  by  mere  ornamental  accomplishments  On  the  othet 
hand,  those  belonging  to  the  lower  classes  of  society  are  ei^ 
couraged  to  devote  themselves  to  those  high  and  polished 
branches  of  education  which  are  utterly  inconsistent  with  the 
circumstances  of  their  families.  This  error,  so  plainly  percept 
tible  in  the  common  occurrences  of  life,  is  productive  of  much 
human  misery. 

In  domestic  management,  as  ni  education^  so  much  depends 
upon  the  particular  circumstances  of  each  individual  case,  that 
it  is  impossible  to  point  out  a  system  which  can  be  generally 
applicable.  The  most  that  can  be  done  is  to  suggest  some 
leading  principles,  and  point  out  certain  errors  to  be  avoided^ 
for  the  assistance  of  the  inexperienced,  on  their  entering  upon 
tlus Important  department  of  female  life. 

To    persons  who   possess   contracted    incomes,   a  proper 
attention  to  domestic  concerns  will  prove   highly  beneficial^ 
1  B  ' 


Z  DOMBSTIC  COOKERT. 

thereby  enabling  them  to  support  a  neat,  nay,  even  an  ele- 
gant appearance,  reflecting  honour  on  themselves,  and  causing' 
satisfaction  to  their  fainilies. 

Females  should  be  early  taught  to  prefer  the  society  of  their 
homes,  to  engage  themselves  in  domestic  duties^  and  to  avoid 
every  species  or  idle  vanity,  to  which  thousands  of  them  owe 
their  ruin ;  and,  above  all  things,  to  consider  their  parents  as 
their  best  friends,,  who  are  interested  only  in  their  welfare :  then 
indeed  we  might  hope  to  see  all  as  it  should  be,  and  to  have 
daily  evidence  of  real  comfort  and  happiness.  Were  females 
thus  instructed,  they  would  soon  learn  to  discriminate  between 
the  solid  enjoyments  of  domestic  peace,  and  the  fleeting  phaii« 
loms  of  delusive  pleasure. 

It  is  natural  to  imagine,  that  when  a  female  marries,  -she 
does  so  from  a  principle  of  love.  It  must  surely,  therefore,  be 
admitted  that  her  duties  then  become  most  seriously  important, 
)>ecause  her  station. is  more  responsible  than  it  previously  was.. 
She  will  then  have  to  superintend  the  affairs  of  the  man  with 
whose  destiny  she  has  united  her  own ;  the  domestic  part  of 
which  falls  particularly  within  the  sphere  of  her  management, 
.and  the  duties  of  which  she  ought  actively  to  execute,  as  far  as 
is  consistent  with  prudent  economy  ;  without  which  even  prince- 
ly fortunes  must  fail :  in  which  case,  her  husband  will  soon 
discover  her  knerits,  and  place  a  proper  value  on  the  treasure  he 
possesses. 

One  family  mast  not  be  governed  in  its  management  by 
what  another  family  may  do.  Each  one  best  knows  its  owu 
resources,  and  should  consult  them  alone.  What  might  be 
meanness  in  one,  might  be  extravagance  in  another ;  consequent- 
ly there  cao^beno  standard  of  reference  but  that  of  individual 
prudence.  The  most  fatal  of  all  things  to  private  families,  is 
to  indulge  an  ambition  of  making  an  appearance  above  their 
fortunes,  professionSr  or  business,  whatever  these  may  be. 
Their  expenses  oi^ht  to  be  so  restricted  within  their  means,  as 
to  make  them  easy  and  independent.  More  evils  may  be  traced 
^to  a  thoughtless  ambition  of  appearing  above  our  situation 
than  the  idle  vanity  that  prompts  it  ever  pauses  to  reflect  on. 

The  next  point  both  for  comfort  and  respectability,  is,  that 
all  the  hooseboU  economy  shotdd  be  uniform,  not  displaying  a 
parade  of  show  in  one  things  and  a  total  want  of  comfort  fa 


ON  DOMESTIC  MANAGEMENT.  3 

laotber.  Besides  the  contemptible  appearance  that  this  must 
have  to  every  person  of  good  sense,  it  is  productive  of  conse- 
qoences,  not  only  of  present,  but  of  future  injury  to  a  family^ 
Out  are  too  often  irreparable. 

In  great  cities  in  particular,  how  common  is  it  that,  for  the 
▼anity  of  having  a  showy  drawing-room  to  receive  company, 
the  family  are  confined  to  a  close  back  room,  where  they  have 
scarcely  either  air  or  light,  the  want  of  which  must  materially 
prejudice  their  health.  Another  fruit  of  evil  is  the  seeing 
more  company,  and  in  a  more  expensive  manner,  than  is  com* 
patible  with  the  general  convenience  of  the  family,  introducing 
with  it  ao  expense  in  dresi>,  and  a  dissipation  of  time^  from 
which  it  suffers  in  various  ways. 

A  fundamental  error  in  domestic  life,  of  very  serious  extent, 
as  it  involves  the  health  •  f  the  whole  family,  arises  from  the 
mistaken  notions  of  the  mistress  of  the  house  upon  the  subjects 
of  diet  and  cookery. 

It  is  very  common  for  persons  to  have  theories  of  thewhol^ 
someness  and  unwholesomeness  of  diet ;  but  these  are  seldom 
founded  upon  a  real  knowledge  of  the  nature  of  the  food,  or  of 
the  beat  manner  of  preparing  it,  but  on  the  vague  authority  of 
some  family  receipts  or  traditions,  which  often  prove  very 
fallacious  guides.  While  many  more  have  no  thought  on  tbc 
subject,  but  of  indulging  their  appetites. 

It  should  be  the  serious  reflection  of  every  mistress  of  a 
family,  that  the  li^alth  of  it,  in  all  its  branches,  depends  in  a 
great  measure  upon  her  judgment  in  diet  and  cookery ;  but 
pre-eminently  that  of  her  children,  from  their  tender  natures* 
This  more  especially  requires  attention  in  great  cities,  to  coun- 
teract as  much  ks  possible  the  want  of  purity  in  the  air,  and 
the  restraints  from  free  exercise.     She  will  then,  no  doubt,  both  J 

from  duty  and  inclination,  make  it  her  business  to  inform  herself  ^ 

upon  these  subjects,  diat  she  may  fultil  this  charge  so  peculiarly  ' 

belonging  to  the  female  sex,  with  the  affectionate  duty  due  to  her 
husband,  children,  and  domestics,  that  as  a  wife,  mother,  and 
mistress  of  a  family,  they  have  a  right  to  expect  fVom  her. 

The  leading  consideration  about  food  ought  always  t«  be  its 
whelesomeness.  Cookery  may  produce  sayonry  and  pretty- 
looking  dishes  without  their  possessing  any  of  the  qualities  of 
food.    It  is  at  the  same  time  both  a  serious  and  Indicrous  reflec* 


4  DOMESTIC   COOKERY. 

tion,  that  it  should  be  thought  to  do  honour  to  our  friencls  and 
ourselves  to  set  out  a  table  where  indij^estion  and  the  whole 
catalogue  of  human  diseases  lie  lurking  in  almost  every  dish. 
Yet  this  is  both  done,  and  taken  as  a  compliment. 

The  domestic  arrangements  of  a  family  belonging  entirely 
to  the  female,  the  table,  of  course,  becomes  entitled  to  no 
email  share  of  her  attention  in  respect  to  its  expenditure,  ap- 
pearance, and  general  supplies. 

Taste  and  judgment  are  highly  requisite  in  this  department^ 
because  the  credit  of  keeping  a  good  and  respectable  table 
depends  not  (as  of  old,)  on  the  vast  quantity  of  articles  with 
which  it  is  covered,  but  the  neatness,  propriety,  and  cleanliness^ 
in  which  the  whole  is  served  up,  which  alone  can  confer  real 
credit  on  her  who  directs  the  preparation. 

Dinner  parties  are  very  expensive,  and  certainly  fall  very 
heavy  on  persons  whose  incomes  are  moderate ;  such  [persons, 
therefore^  should  n^  support  a  custom  productive  of  unpleasant 
ponsequences,  by  lending  it  the  sanction  of  their  example. 
•But  if  it  is  found  requisite  occasionally  to  give  dinners,  it 
-should  be  done  in  a  liberal  and  genteel  manner,  otherwise  it  is 
iar  better  to  decline  it  altogether. 

A  certain  degree  of  caution  is  requisite  in  providing  even 
a  family  dinner,  as  a  casual  visitor  may  unexpectedly  enter, 
whose  company  cannot  be  avoided ;  and  every  man  feels  his  Con- 
sequence hurt,  should  such  a  visitor  chance  to  drop  in  to  a  dinner 
not  sufficiently  good  ch:  abundant :  a  table  should  therefore  be 
furnished  according  to  the  income  and  rank  of  its  master :  thus 
I  would  not  have  a  tradesman  emulate  the  expenditure  and 
appearance  of  a  noble,  nor  a  noble  of  royalty.  A  good  plain 
dinner,,  of  which  there  should  be  sufficient,  with  clean  linen 
and  decent  attendance^  will  obviate  every  difficulty ;  and  the 
entrance  of  an  unexpected  visitor  will  occasion  no  additional 
trouble,  and  all  uneasy  sensations  on  account  of  the  appearance 
of  the  dinner  will  be  banished  from  the  breasts  of  the  master  and 
mistress,  by  which  harmony  and  enjoyment  will  of  course  ensue* 

This  mode  of  providing  a  table  may  be  extended  to  every 
class  of  society,  where  each  individual  should  have  a  table  pro- 
vided according  to  the  fortune  which  must  pay  for  it ;  and  such 
am  arrangement  will  meet  with  the  respect  and  approbation  of 
all  serious  persons* 


ON  DOMESTIC  MANAGBMENT.  li 

Ctrving  also,  though  seldom  attended  to,  merits  attention ; 
for,  without  a  due  knowledge  of  it,  the  honours  of  a  table  can- 
not be  performed  with  propriety,  or  without  considerable  pain. 
It  also  makes  a  great  difference  in  the  daily  consumption  of  a 
fiunily.  I  therefore  recommend  my  readers  to  study  this  use* 
fal  branch  of  domestic  knowledge,  which  can  be  attained  only 
by  constant  practice,  as  written  instructions  can  merely  point 
out  the  way  which  practice  must  render  perfect,  and  without 
which  no  person  can  preside  with  honour  at  the  head  of  a 
table. 

Where  there  are  young  persons  in  a  family,  it  would  greatly 
improve  them,  were  they  made  to  take  the  head  of  the  table^ 
under  the  superintendance  of  their  parents,  by  whose  salutary 
Sections  they  would  soon  discharge  the  duty  thus  throwii 
opon  them  with  equal  ease  and  grace,  and  learn  more  in 
dne  month's  practical  employment,  than  they  would  in  twelve 
months'  observation.  This  would  also  prepare  them  to  dis- 
efaarge  their  duties  in  a  proper  manner  when  they  become  mis* 
tresses  themselves.  For  my  own  part,  I  can  imagine  nothing 
more  disagreeable  than  to  behold  a  person  at  the  head  of 
a  Well-furnished  table,  presiding  only  to  haggle  and  spoil  the 
finest  articles  of  provision;  by  which  great  waste  is  occasioned, 
and,  we  may  add,  some  disgust,  because  many  delicate  persons, 
when  helped  in  a  clumsy  manner,  absolutely  loathe  the  provi- 
sions, however  good,  thus  set  before  them.  The  directions 
for  carvitig  immediately  following  these  observations,  with  the 
illustrative  plates  annexed,  will  be  found  extremely  useful  to 
the  inexperienced  carver. 

Every  lady  who  fills  the  situation  of  a  mistress  of  a  family, 
will,  I  am  confident,  upon  mature  reflection,  be  convinced, 
that  much  depends  on  the  vigilance  of  her  conduct,  as  far  as 
respects  good  management  and  domestic  economy ;  the  most 
trifling  events  should  claim  her  notice,  for  the  keen  eye  of  a 
superior  can  alone  restrain  servants  and  dependants  within 
proper  bounds,  and  prevent  that  waste  which  would  otherwise 
ensue.  No  female  should  ever  harbour  a  moment*s  doubt 
respecting  her  power  to  conduct  and  manage  a  family,  even 
if  previously  unused  to  it,  as  many  of  her  senior-  friends 
will  freely  give  her  their  advice;  and  a  short  practical  ex« 
)9erience  uriil   soon  render  her  able  to   estimate   the   best 


I 


•  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

node  of  management,  and  aUo  teach  her  how  to  keep  her 
family  expenditure  agreeable  to  her  income,  and  how  -to  lay 
out  her  money  to  the  greatest  advantage.  Where  persona 
depend  for  their  support  and  comfort  on  the  skill  and  active 
exertions  of  a  father,  much  also  depends  on  the  mother,  who, 
should  ahe  be  a  bad  manager,  will  soon  undo  all  that  her  hus- 
band has  done ;  but  should  she  understand  her  duties,  pros- 
perity will  smile  upon  the  family,  and  perhaps  fortune  may  be 
ultimately  secured. 

Persons  who  possess  the  means,  should  always  pay  for  every 
article  in  ready  money,  the  benefit  of  which  they  will  very 
soon  experience;  and  tradesmen  \%ill  be  careful  to  supply  such 
valuable  customers  with  the  betit  of  their  goods.  They  are  also 
willing  to  sell  their  goods  cheaper  for  money  than  on  credit, 
consequently,  by  properly  attending  to  this  circumstance,  a 
considerable  saving  may  be  made  in  the  course  of  a  year.  I 
would  also  recommeod  my  readers  never  to  change  their  trades- 
people without  some  serious  cause  of  offence,  as,  after  dealing 
some  time  with  a  tradesman,  he  considers  you  a  valuable  cus- 
tomer, obeys  your  orders  with  punctual  attention,  and  invaria- 
bly serves  you  with  the  best  goods  he  can  procure,  with  the 
▼lew  of  securing  your  future  support,  and  a  recommendation  of 
hid  shop  to  your  friends. 

A  person  of  moderate  income  should  make  every  purchase 
herself;  and  to  do  this  well,  she  should  make  herself  acquaint- 
ed with  the  best  articles,  and  the  relative  value  of  each,  by 
which  she  will  occasionally  make  one  pound  go  as  far  as  many 
less  active  and  experienced  persons  would  two.  Although  1  dp 
not  intend  by  the  above  to  advocate  the  cause  of  bargains,  which 
generally  in  the  end  prove  losses  ;  on  the  contrary,  I  recommen4 
whatever  maybe  purchased  to  be  of  the  best  quality,  which,  yoi^ 
may  rely  on  it,  will  go  farthest.  Stated  rules  cannot  be  fully 
given,  as  rank,  fortune,  and  habit,  must  determine  many  points; 
however,  attentive  inspection  can  be  no  disgrace  even  to  the 
most  elevated  or  wealthy.  One  great  advantage  resulting  froo^ 
this  elose  attention  is,  that  servants  will  soon  discover  that  such 
a  mistress  must  not  be  trifled  with,  and  will  consequently  re- 
spect, {ear,  and  serve  her,  better  than  they  otherwise  would  do. 

Waste  of  every  description  should  be  cautiously  avoided  ; 
notliing  can  be  more  criminal,  when  we  reflect  that  ther^  are 


ON  DOMBSTIC  MANAGEMENT.  9 

thoasands  of  our  fellow-creatures  dying  from  want,  whiles  by 
the  bounty  of  Providence,  we  have  the  full  enjoyment  of  every 
good  thing.  Wastefulneas,  thereibre,  should  never  be  tolerated 
in  any  of  the  necessaries  of  life.  Every  respectable  family,  by 
proper  attention,  may  do  much  good  to  their  poor  neighbours, 
witboot  injury  to  themselves,  by  properly  preparing  the  offal 
of  their  houses,  and  distributing  it  to  such  as  are  in  want ;  this 
would  be  affording  much  actual  relief  at  the  ezpenoe  of  little 
more  than,  trouble. 

Regularity  should  be  punctually  observed  in  all  families,  as 
by  keeping  good  hours  much  time  is  gained.  By  breakfasting 
early  in  the  morning,  servants  have  a  fair  day  before  them ;  and 
they  should,  when  convenient,  be  suffered  to  retire  to  rest  at 
an  early  hour,  by  which  meant  they  will  not  be  late  on  the 
foHowiDg  morning. 

This  method  will  also  render  less  servants  necessary.  I  am 
sensible  that  many  of  my  fair  readers  may  imagine  this  to  be  of 
little  consequence,  but  I  can  assure  them  thai  they  will  ultimate- 
ly find,  that  regular  and  early  houra  in  a  family  is  of  serious 
importance  to  every  branch  of  it,  as  far  as  relates  to  comfort ; 
and  it  should  be  remembered  that  servants  have  feelings  equally 
with  ourselves. 

What  an  active  person  may  perform  in  the  course  of  one 
year  by  punctual  attendance  to  regular  hours,  and  a  persevering 
industry,  mould,  if  calculated,  astonish  a  common  observer  by 
its  extent  and  utility.  In  respect  to  servants,  a  mistress  should 
be  extremely  careful  whom  she  hires,  and  be  particular  in  pro- 
curing a  good  character  from  the  persons  with  whom  they  have 
previously  resided.  It  is  also  the  solemn  duty  of  a  mistress  to 
be  just  in  givinir  a  character  to  such  servants  as  leave  her^ 
because  a  servant's  whole  dependance  rc^ts  entirely  on  the  pos« 
session' of  a  good  character;  destitute  of  which,  inevitable  ruin 
must  Mlow.  This  is  a  duty,  the  breach  of  which  nothing  can 
extenuate ;  fbr  by  giving  an*  undeaerved  bad  character  to  a  good 
servant,  through  caprice,  eternal  infiimy  must  be  reflected  on 
the  person  who  does  so.  Faithful,  honejft  servants  should  be 
treated  with  renpect  and  kindness  ;  and  when  an  occahion  offers, 
they  should  be  duly  rewarded,  which  will  create  emulation  in 
ethers ;  but  never  UMum  kept  than  sufficient* 


fl 

t 

V 


BOMESTIG  COOKSRY. 


It  18  priident  and  ecsanonical  to  have  a  6uffi«leni  qtf aatitjr  of 
household  articles  and  culinary  ulensik.  The  stock  should  in« 
Yariably  be  well  kepi  up ;  and  to  do  this  efiectually  requitea 
tome  consideratioii. 

Much  time  will  also  be  saved,  if  etery  article  is  kept  km  lie 
prbper  place,  clean.  And  remember  every  thing  should  he 
mended  the  moment  it  is  ii^ured,  and  never  mpplfed  to  anf  cikoF 
MH  than  that  far  which  it  was  omginaUy  designed:  by  whiflii 
mode  of  management  any  thing  will  last  much  longer  thaa  it 
otherwise  would  do. 

Never  pay  even  the  smallesk  btt),  without  having  a  reeeipl 
for  the  sum,  or  yon  will  frequendy  have  to  pay  the  eaoie  biU 
twice.  You  should  weigh  every  artide»  su^  as  meat»,  breads 
groceries,  &c.  when  sent  home,  before  the  person  who  brii^ 
them,  that  in  case  their  weight  should  be  short  (which  fre* 
queiitly  happens,)  he  may  return  the  goods,  and  vouch  for  the 
truth  of  the  circumstance. 

In  a  well  regulated  family^  every  article  should  be  kept  m 
constant  readiness,  such  as  broken  sugar,  pounded  spices,  &Cp 
by  which  much  trouble  will  be  prevented  when  such  articles  art 
wanted  for  immediate  use.  Servants  should  also  be  required  t» 
pay  the  same  attention  in  waiting  on  the  family,  when  alone,  em 
they  do  when  there  is  company :  this  will  soon  become  a  regular 
habit,  and  visitors  will  occasion  but  little  additional  trouble. 

When  noonings  or  suppers  arfe  served,  care  should, be  taken 
to  have  such  things  in  readiness  as  Ore  proper  for  either  :  •# 
change  of  which  may  be  agreeable,  and  if  duly/managed,  will 
be  attended  with  little  expense  and  much  convenience. 

A  ticket  should  be  exchanged  by  the  copk  for  every  loaf  of 
bread,  which  when  returned  will  show  the  number  id  be  paid 
for;  as  tallies  may  be  altered,  unless  one  is  kept  by  each  party. 

Those  who  are  served  with  birewers  beer,  or  any  other 
articles  not  paid  for  weekly  or  on  delivery,  should  keep  a  hool^ 
for  entoring  the  dates ;  which  will  not  only  serve  to  prevent 
overcharges,  but  will  show  the  whole  year's  consumption  at  one 

view. 

An  inventory  of  furniture,  lirien,  and  china,  aboold  be 
kept,  and  the  things  examined  by  it  twice  a  y/Hir,  ce  oftener 
if  there  be  a  change  of  servanU ;  into  each  of  whose  care  th^ 
articles  used  by  him  or  her  should  be  intruBted,  with  a  list,  as 


1 


OK  DOfliSOTfO  BIASAOSMBNT.  •. 

b  dam  wMi  fbrtp.  Tkh«li  of  pvlshmnt,  with  the  fanfly. 
niat»  nsoibOTedt  and  apeeifyng  what  bed  it  beloogi  to»  BhouW 
bt  tewed  on  eeeh  feather-bed,  beftoler^  pBlaer,  and  btanket* 
Knives,  forkt»  onl  henseKilotksy  ece  ofteD  deficieot;  tlwee 
accidents  might  be  obviated,  if  an  article  at  the  head  08  mf^tf 
lilt  required  tie  fonnee  afaoald  be  yrddaced  whofe  ok  broken, 
and  tiM  mocked  fart  of  the  Hnen,  though  ail  tbe  othcre  ehouki 
bevorn  out.  The  nidiieeneiH  to  take  eane  pf  gii^a  la  in  aame* 
mtasnre  veaeored^  bj  the  iaareaoid.  price  given  fiur  okl  ffint- 
gli88.--*Thooe  who  wish  §m  trifl&diBbea,  bfit)ter<4tai)dfl^  &0. 
at  a  lower  ehaege  d^n  ent-glessy  any  boy  fcheoi  made  in  mmiMe^ 
of  which  there  is  great  variety  that  look  extremely  well,  i£  wptt 
plieed  nenr  tfaw  looie.  beautiful  artidea. 

Thopiioeofstarehdependeiipenthatof  fldnij;  tlie  heafe  wtiE 
hsef^  goodi  in  a  dry  mmat  soewi  te^ootne  yean ;  tIpereAte  whoa 
bfftnd  la  chea^^it  ma^  he  tx>ught  eo  adhnaotag^  amd  cod^eied 
close. 

SooAH.  being  aw  frtide  of  eoniideraUe  expenee  in  all 
families,  the  purchase  demands  particular  atteatien*  Ths: 
cheapest  does  not  go  «o  lar  '^  (^t  uioee  tdhied-;  ai^^-  tbece  ia 
a  difeeeiioe  even  in  ehe  ij^gveo  of  «weetnefs.  The  white 
sheuld  be.  ohoaea  thai  is  dese,  heaift,  and  dhiningi  '  Thft^aft* 
sort  of  brown  has  a  bright  gravelly  look,,  and  it  is/  often  to  faft 
beeghl  pwre  aa  impoited*  East  IncKa  qugaia  era  inet*  fbnthe 
pMs,  bttt  nel;  ao  strange  eonaoquendy  iinftt  fisr  winea  attk 
sweetmeaaa,  .hmt  do  wail  foe  oomnioa  purposes^  if  good  off  theic 
kind.  To  prepare  white  sugar,  pounded^  seUin^  it  with  m 
bqMlle,  and  atf ttegv  wartea  leas  than  a.  mortar. 

Caind^  Made  in  cool  wfatber-  ore  beat;  and  whew  tbeic 
pnee^  asidthaitof  toiq^  whiab  rise  and  fidl  tagether,  is  likely: 
to  bo  higher,  it  wttl  he.  prudme  to  faiy  in  the  atock  cf  boA» 
IWr  iHforaaati^  the  ehai^dkr  can  al  wnya  give.  Tb^  are  fanltar 
tm  beeping-  eigfa|  on  tea  nuxitba,  and  will  not  iagnre  for  tmn 
years,  if  properly  placed  in  the  cool;  and  there  ase  §mm 
artiele»  that  better  deserve  eare^  in  buying/ and  alloeviqg  a  due 
quantity  of,  noeerding  to  the  aiaenf  the  faaaily* 

Paper,  by  keeping,  improves  in  quality:  and  if  boogfaA 
\j  half  or  whole,  eoame  flreoa  huige  deiden,  will  bf  aaueh 
chsaper  than  pnvcdMed  by  the-quiee.  llie  higl|  prioe  of  thin 
article  atngr  ho  aeoenatvl  for  by  the  nddilnnal  dutiea,  and 

1  C 


10  J    BOMfiSTIC  COOKERY. 


a    larger  cobsunption,    basides   the   monopoly   of  rags:. of 
the  latter  it  is  said  there   is  some  scarcity,    whidi  might  . 
be  obviated  if  aa  order  were  given    to  a  servant  in  ^very 
family  to  keep  a  bag  to  receive  all  the  waste  bits  from  cuttings 
oaty  &c. 

Vegetables  will  keep  best  on  a  stone  floor>  if  the  air  be  ex« 
duded. — Meat  in  a  cold  dry.  place.— 'Sugar  and  sweetmeats 
require  a  dry  place ;  so  does  salt.— -Candies  cold^  but  not  damp. 
-•-Dried  meats,  hams,  &c.  the  same. — All  sorts  of  seeds  for 
puddings,  saloop,  rice,  Ac.  should .  be  dose  covered,  to 
preserve  from  insects ;  but  that  will  not  prevent  it,  if  long 
kqpt. 

Bread  is  so  heavy  an  article  of  expense,  that  all  waste . 
should  be  guarded  ajy^ainst;  and  having  it  cut  in  the  room  will 
tend  mudi  to  prevent  it.     Since  the  scardty  in  1795  and  J  800, ' 
that  plan  has  been  much  adopted.    It  should  not  be  cut  until 
a  day  old.    Earthen  pans  and  covers  keep  it  best. 

Straw  to  lay  aipples  on  should  be  quite  dry,  to  prevent  a 
musty  tastOi 

Laige  peara  should  be  tied  up  by  the  stalk. 

Basil,  savory,  or  knotted  marjoram,  or  London  thyme, 
to  be  used  when  herbs  art  ordered ;  but  with  discretion,  ae 
liiey  are  very  pungent. 

The  best  means  to  preserve  blankets  from  moths  is  to  fold 
and  lay  them  und^  the  feather-beds  that  are  in  use ;  and  they 
should  be  shaken  occasionally.  When  soiled,  they  should  be 
washed,  not  scoured. 

Soda,  by  softening  the  water,  saves  a  great  deal  of  soap, 
it  should  be  mdted  in  a  large  jug  of  water,  some  of  whidi 
pour  into. the  tubs  and  boiler;  and  when  the  lather  becomes 
weak,  add  more.  The  liew  improvement  in  sof^  soap  is»  if 
properly  used,  a  saving  of  near  half  in  quantity  ;  and  though 
samething.dearer  than  the  hard,  reduces  the  price  of  washing 
coBsiderablyk  . 

Many  good  laundresses  advise  soaping  linen  in  warm  water 
the  night  previous  to  washing,  as  fadUtating  the  operation  with 
kJM  friction. 

Soap  should  be  cut  with  a  wire  or  twine,  in  pieces  that  will' 
make  a  long-sqiijire,  when  first, bvought  in,  and  kept  out  of  the 
sir  two  or  three  weeks;  for  if  it  dry  quidc^  it  will  crack,  «n4 


ON   in>MBSTIC  MANAOSMEKT.  11 


when  mti,  hrtkk.  Tot  it  on  a  abelf,  leaving  a  space  between, 
and  let  it  grow  hard  gfwdaally..  Thoa^  it  wiH  save  a  Ml  tfaifd 
in  the  oontimiption. 

Some  of  the  lemons  and  orangea  used  for  .  joice  should  be 
pared  first  to  preserve  the  peel  dry  ;  some  should  be  halved, 
and  when  sqQeesedy  the  palp  cot  out,  and  the  ootaides  'dried 
for  grating.  If  for  boiling  in  any  liqaid^  the  first  way  is  besti 
When  these  fruits  are  cheap,  a  proper  quantity  should  be 
bought  and  prepared  as  above  directed,  especially  by  those 
who  live  in  the  country,  where  they  cannot  always  be  had ; 
and  they  are  perpetually  wanted  in  cookery. 

V^n  whites  of  eggs  are  used  for  jelly,  or  other  purposes^ 
contrive  to  have  pnddmg,  custard,  &c.  to  employ  the  y<dka 
also.  Should  you  not  want  them  for  several  hodn,  beat  them 
up  with  a  little  water,  and  put  them  in  a  oool  place,  or  they 
will  be  hardened  and  useleas.  It  was  a  mistake  of  old,  to 
think  that  the  whites  made  cakes  and  puddings  heavy  j  on  the 
contrary,  if  beaten  long  and  separately,  they  contribnta 
greatly  to  give  lightness,  are  an  advantage  to  paste,  and  make 
a  pretty  dish  beaten  with  fruit,  to  set  in  cream,  &c. 

If  copper  ntensils  be  used  in  the  kitchen,  the  cook  should 
he  charged  to  be  very  carelnl  not  to  let  the  tin  be  robbed  ofi^ 
and  to  have  them  fresh  done  when  the  least  defect  appears 
and  never  to  pot  by  any  soup,  gravy,  Ac.  in  them,  or  any 
othier  metal  utensil ;  stone  and  earthen  vessels  should  be  pro<^ 
vided  for  those  purposes,  as  likewise  pletity  of  common  dishes^ 
that  the  tabl^set  may  not  be  used  to  put  by  cold  meat. 

Tin  vessels,  if  kept  damp,  soon  rust,  which  causes  holes. 
Fenders^  and  tin  linings  of  flower-pots,  &a  should  be  painted 
eveiy  year  or  two. 

Vegetables  soon  toor,  and  eorrode  metals  and  glased  red 
ware,  by  whidi:a  fllxoDg  poison  is  produced.  Some.years  ago^ 
the  deatii  of  several  gentlemen  was  occasioned  at  Sak-ktU,  by 
theooqk  sending  a  ragout  to  the  table,  whiah  she  had  kept 
frototthe  preceding  day  in  a  copper  vessel  badly  tinned. 

Vinegar,  by  its  acidity,  does  the  same,  the  glaaing  being 
i4.  lead  or  arsisBic. 

To  coiA  Uqnors  in  hot  weather,  dip  a  doth  in  cold  water, 
and  wrap  it  round  the  bottle  two  or  three  times,  then  place  it 
in  the  snn;  renew  the  process  onoe.or  twice* 


If  BOHBrAv  coosmnr. 

The  bett  ivay  of  vcalding  ^mn,'  or  boiling  inmefs^t,  inia  m 
•tone  jar  on  a  hoi  irob  bea#tfa  ;  or  l^y  psiting  the  Te8tel:iDto  a 
eaocepan  of  water,  called  a  water-batb. 

If  cbocolii(e«  cdfiee^  jdly»  gmiel^  bark,  tftc.  be  auileffcid  to 
boil  orer^.tlieBtiiength  isioBt         - 

The  cook  Bhobld  be  aioodraged  tp  be  cureAil  -a£  ooale  tod 
dnders  :  for  <the  kitter  tlwue  is  a  new  contmranoe  totift,  wtth- 
oiit  diiperting  the  daat  of  the  aafaes,  by  meaai  of  a  covered  tilt 
bvclBet. 

Small  OMil  wetted  fnalceB^he  ation^^  fire  for  the  back, 'but 
most  remain  ontoudred  ontil  it  >eake.  CinderB,  Ugb%  «wet» 
give  a  great  degvee  of  beat,  tod  aiw  better  than  coal  fiir  fur- 
■acea,  inming-stoiroBy  and  o^ens. 

Yhe  cookehoukl  be  oharged  to  tike  care  of  jelly-bage,  tafiea 
lor  the-colkred'thingB,'  &e.  u'hidi,if  not  perfectly  acakled^  and 
kept'dry,  give  an 'unpleasant' flavour  when  noat  u^ed. 

Gold  w«tar  tinrowa  on  cast  iioa,  when  hot,  >wf II  caute  it  to 
cracft. 

in  eoBcUlsion  we  beg  loafve  to  offer  a  few  4>b8ervadons  lor 
the  use  of  hoMekafirt  in  piatitular.' 

A  g^od  beusekstper  it  kivaluabie ;  bat  the  vavions  and  im- 
p^ftaat  dtttidB  of  ker  atatibn  require  suck'  a  bembinaeida  of 
goaU^es^  that  vely  lew  arerfbdnd  to«aiccl  in  efwyipavlicukr, 

A  housekeeper  uoght  4x>  be  inliaiateiy  abcpBainMd  witk  tba 
duties  of  BoNraBts  of  every  degree.  Sbeouirkt  to  tiemiidp 
inn,  and  vigilant.  She  sbeukipesiess-a-eompetept'kmiwfedgef 
of  figures,  wtthoot 'i^bieb  €^»ean  acaroely  kec^«  lialisfiietoi^ 
ecoount ;  imd  ahbbkl,  akovse  all  things,  have  proper  'ideas  of 
mrder.  Thoee  Who  ure  iguorant  of  tftie  Means  c^  viainsgtfig^ 
must  not  only  waste  many  useful  things,  but  also  cause,  cooob 
Aagrin  tb'tliehr  master  or  mistress'l)^  tkeir^gceat  irregularity. 
They  are  idwaya  in  a  4bi>8t}e,  and  aitwiqrain  oonliiddn;  sbeir 
MaFf^rs-geC  fafied,  and  tkey  dwn  lose  n  all  pMper>oeiatBBiid 
^er  the  other /Servants.  Thetfeeegoiiig  instruoiioiiB  '^iil  W 
found  exl»mdy  useful  to  ho««€|boepers,'aiKl  mtyte  read  #Mi 
edv«iftt4ge:ky  their  mietnessos. 

We  earnestly  advise  all  housekeepeirs  to  aet  With  sodh  pro* 
datevrabd^gHMrity,  as^uify  enaure  cbe  reepcot <|f  itHe  seevanta 
ehder  tkeaJL;  ^  to  baue  <as  leSir  p^le  ecAMog  lAfr  ehim 
when  the  family  is  akoetit  laa^pMsUde,  usiU  might  Meoe  Am^ 


Qttor  iettmilt  U»  Idbe  tepmpet  libertiM.  WbM  strangers 
eo««  OB  a  VMi,  let  them  be4re4ted  wkktht  eeine  retpMt  •»  it 
dbown  Item  by  their  lorJ  and  kdy«  l«et  it4lto  he  thiMr  oaa** 
Hanistiidf,  however  kboriovi^  lo  to  up  iAlhememiiig  befora 
inj  of  the  eervMls,  and  let  4hcm  nc^er  go  to  bed  ttntil  thfgr 
hwe  aetii  Ihe  doon  mtad  windows  fMopetly  telened.  bi  r«- 
pwvii^  lk9  aeFfaDtB  let.it  he  done  mkh  lenderneee^  end  nevw 
eiaggerate  their  faults.  Hotremer,  m  •Ibe  seomrity  of  tUm  hoow 
ilspmds  on  the  oervsniB  keeping  good  hovvs,  it  >is  propAr  to 
ceapkfli  of  «his  fiuik,  when  Beithmr  advioe  not  veproof  has 
hod  snj  efisct.  la  the  ohoiee  of  new  ser?etit»  let  them  hi 
ssUsmeiy  csiitioiier  and  inquire  atridlir  ints  tiieir  ohovastMr. 

If  the-bousskeeper  attend  to  these  rides*  all  ittipropev  wMMr 
nil!  be  avoided,  the  honour  and  iafteveet  of  her  Piaster  ^rJM  km 
puslectsd,  ate  will  beoome  an  eiample  to^heyonnger  Beswante» 
the  family  to  which  she  is  atteched  will  be  peepceted>  and -she 
mttestabliBh  bar  #wn  nepntatbn  on  a  firm  and  Isetinf  >bsels. 


DIRECTIONS  foil  CARVING. 

CAVING  Is  an  atlalliment  -so  elssentlal  to  the  CbnYenience 
tfnd  ceiiif<aft  of  social  life,  psrtiiularly  in  females  of  every 
rank,  that  some  directions  cannot  but  prove  acceptable.  These 
directions  will,  however,  be  concisely  plain.  Utility  is  the 
sole  object  of  tbem,  and  this  consideration  must  limit  their 
application  to  suob  articles,  as  ase  genersUy  found  nfQu  .the 
tables  of  most  families  of  respecttbiliiy* 

C«rnx}ig  has  of  late  devol^Acd  chiefly  Dpon  geiitlemen.;  rbnt^ 
wh^er  the  task  of  hcjping.iiie  compaqy  rests  with  the  master 
or  mistress,  4»ire  should  be  taken  that  theeeat  of  tbe.cwrverbe 
sufficiently  high  to  command  the  table,  jsoas  to  reiwicr  xisipg 
nnuecesss^.  Itwill  always  410  advissble  to.  have  a  ^ood  steel 
placed  upon  the  table  by  the  side  of  the  carver^  unless  whece 
there  are  servants  constantly  in  attendance,  when  it  will  bOjpro* 
per  to  have  it  on  the  side-taUe. 


14  BOM^TIC  COOKERY. 

The  carving-knife  shoald  be  light,  yet  of  a  tufltfeiit 
and.  the   edge  very  keen.      In  using  it,   no  great  personal 
strength  is  requisite,  as  constant  practice  will  render  it  an 
easy  task  to  carve  the  most  diificiilt  articles^Mnore  depending  o».  ^  ^ 
address  than  force ;  bat,  in  order  to  prevent  trouble,  ^e  fWpf-'  ^V 
of  mutton,  yeal»  lamb,  &c.  should  be  divided  by  the  bOtxj||j||P^ 
when  they  may  be  easily  cut  through,  and  fine  slices  of  meat 
taken  off  from  between  eVery  two  bones. 

As  fish  is  always  served  before  meat,  and  meat  before 
poultry,  we  fliiall  trsat  of  the  respective  articles  in  that  order.- 
In  helping  fish,  be  careful  not  to  break  the  flakes ;  which  in 
cold  and  very  fresh  salmon  are  large,  and  contribute  much  to 
the  beauty  of  its  appearance.  On  this  account  a  'fish-knife, 
not  being  sharp,  divides  H  best*  Help  a  part^of  the  roe,  milt, 
or  liver,  to  ea^  persoi^  The  beads  of  carp,  part  of  those 
of  cod  and  salfnon,  sounds  of  cod,  and  fins  oif  turbot,  are 
likewise  esteemed  niceties,  and  are  to  be  attended  to  aceord* 
iBgly. 

Of  butcher's  meat  the  more  fleshy  joints  are  to  be  cut  in 
thin  smooth  slices,  neatly  done ;  and  in  joints  of  beef  and 
mutton,  the  knife  should  always  be  passed  down  the  bone  by 
those  who  wish  to  carve  with  propriety,  and  great  attention 
should  be  paid  to  help  every  person  to  a  portion  of  the  best 
parts. 

Observe  tha^  in  cutting  up  any  wild  fowl,  dude,  goose, 
or  turkey,  for  a  large  party,  if  you  cut  the  slices  dowii./ronil- 
pinion  to  pinion,  without  m^ng  wings,  there  wiU  be  a.,gi^ii^ 
nijpnber  of  prime  pieces. 

FISH. 

CoJTs  Heotf.— This  shonld  be  cut  with  a  spoon  or  fish 
trowel ;  the  parts  about  the  back-bone,  or  the  shoulders,  are 
the  best  and  most  firm ;  take  off  a  piece  quite  down  to  the 
bone,  in  the  direction  a,  b,  c,  d,  potting  in  the  spoon  at  «,  r, 
and  with  each  slice  of  fish  give  a  piece  of  the  sound,  whidi  ties 
underneath  the  back-bone  and  lines  it,  the  meat  of  which  is 
thin,  and  a  little  darker  coloured  than  the  body  of  the  fish 
itself;  tiiis  may  be  got  by  passing  a  spocm  undemeatha  in  the 
direction  if,/. 


MtUldm-ffMtUm^ 


«. 


/. 


l>IRBCTION8  FOR  CASVIK6.  l6 

.  SUboN.— Of  boiled  salmon  there  is  one  ptrt  more  fat  and 
rich  than  the  other*  The  belly-part  Is  the  fiitter  of  the  two, 
iBd  it  is  castomary  to  give  to  those  who  like  both,  a  thin  slice 
of  each ;  for  the  one,  cut  it  out  of  the  beliy-part,  the  other  out 
of  the  back. 

ilftfcAroTf/.— Slit  the  fish  along  the  back  with  a  knife,  and 
tike  off  one  whole  side,  but  not  too  near  the  head,  as  the  meat 
about  the  gills  is  generally  black,  aind  iU-flavoured.  It  is  usual 
to  ask  whether  a  hard  or  soft  roe  be  preferred. 

5(9&s.— These  are  generally  sent  to  table  two  ways,  some 
fried,  others  boiled:  they  are  to  be  cut  right  through  the 
middle,  bone  and  all,  and  a*  piece  of  the  fish,  perhaps  a  third 
or  fourth  part,  according  to  its  sise,  given  to  each.  The  same 
may  be  done  with  many  other  fish,  cutting  them  across,  the 
same  way  aa  mackarel. 

Tkrbot, — The  fish-knife,  or  trowel,  is  to  be  entered  in  the 
eentret  or  middle,  over  the  back-bone,  and  a  piece  of  the  fish, 
as  much  aa  will  lie  on  the  trowel,  to  be  taken  off  on  one  side 
close  to  the  bones.  The  thickest  part  of  the  fish  is  always  most . 
sateemed,  but  not  too  near  the  head  or  tail ;  and  when  the 
meat  on  one  side  is  removed  close  to  the  bones,  the  whole  back« 
bone  is  to  be  raised  with  the  knife  and  fork,  and  the  under  side 
is  then  to  be  9erved« 

La^sfer.— As  this  is  seldom  sent  to  table  whole,  it  is  only 
necessary  to  say  that  the  tail  is  reckoned  the  prime  part,  and 
next  to  that  the  daws. 

jEWs.— Eels  are  cut  into  pieces  through  the  bone,  and  the 
ttickest  part  is  esteemed  the  best. 

MEAT. 

jlitch  hone  of  Beef. -^  An  the  outside  of  this  joint  is  alwaya. 
ifflpaited  in  its  flavour,  from  the  water  in  which  it  is  boiled  a 
thick  slice  must  be  cut  off  the  whole  length  of  the  jointy  be- 
ginning at  a,  and  catting  it  all  the  way  even,  and  through  the 
mMe  anr&ce,  ftom  tf  to  5.  The  soft  fiit,  which  resembles 
marrow,  lies  on  the  back,  below  the  letter  c,  and  the  firm  fiit. 
must  be  cut  in  thin  horizontal  slices  at  the  point  d ;  bat  as 
some  like  the  soft,  and  some  the  firm  fiit,  it  is  necessary  to  ask 
which  is  preferred.  The  upper  part,  as  it  is  here  placed  on  the 
dish^  is  the  fullest  of  gravy ;  but  there  are  some  who  prefer 


1<  .  i>oiimiiTic  coeKiRY; 

»  8llc«  from  th^  im^  8td#.  The  uk^wt  tint  keep»llM'  meat 
properly  togetiM*  mken  botUf^-  i$  «h«wn  in  the  plate  at  4U 
Tiki*  should  be  djt$mn  out  beibf  e  it  is  served  op ;  or  if  it  be 
neeeseavy  te  le^vie  |ht  dsewev  iti>  it  sboold  be  e  silver  one. 

Sirloin  of  Beef  may  be  begun  either  at  the  end,  or  by  cutting 
iiita  tbe  aaiddle.  K  is  ueual  i»  inquire  whether  the  outside  or 
the  Histde  ie  pPiHirred.  For  the  outside  the  slice  sheuUI  be 
oet  down  to  the  bones ;  aiMk  the  aanoe  wttli  e^ery  foklowing 
helping.  Slice  the  inside  liliewkie^  end  gi^ae  with  elMEb  piece 
aeeseof  the  soft  fht. 

Brinllwt  of  Jiief^.^Thta  part  is^ always  boiled^  mk4  is^  te  be 
out  lile*  \0Hg  way,  quit^  dovm  te  the  bone,  alter  ha? iiig  out  o9 
the  outside,  &t  irst  cut,  whksh  ywoL  mimi  ne^er  help  any  oii» 
te,  uitlesa  lAiey  dtsiie  it,  whioh  is  seldpei  the  case.  The  (ht 
cut  with  this  slice  is  a  firm  grisly  fat ;  bue  a  ac»ftev  iht  nay  be 
jeune  uKiee^HaaM^* 

Rmmd,  op  Buttoek  af  ii>«e^:-- This  vequiree  no  print  te 
point  out  4lew  k  shouUI  be  carved.  A  thiek  alice  shoeld  be  out 
off  aU  pound  the  buttock  ;  and,  thue  cut  Into,  thin  slicea  OMiy 
be  cut  ll'eiDtlie  te|^:  but  ae  It  Is  a  dish  thai  is  frequency 
biengbt  to  the  table  eold,  a  secelid  <iayv  It  sheuki  idwaya  be  eet 
oafNisoiue  aire  evoit. 

Fillet  of  VeaL — In  an  ox  this  part  is  round  ef  beef.  Aek 
wihelher  the  browfr  outside  be  liked,  otherwise  help  the  next 
rfioe.  The  bene  ie  take»e»t,  and  the  meat  tied  eleee*  beft>re 
dressing ;  which  make  the  fillet  very  solid.  It  shoekl  be  eut 
th^,  and  very"  smooth  •—A  stwffiHg^is  pat  Into  the  Hap,  wbich 
completely  covers  it,  you  must  eut  €leep^  inte  thi»,  and  help  e 
thin  slice,  as  likewise  of  fat.  From  carelessness  in  not  covering 
the  latter  with  paper,  it  is  sonietitoes  dried  up,  to  the  great  dis- 
appoiatmeat  eC  the  caraai^ 

Bpomt  of  rimk^-Jdv^  part^  whieb  U  eaUad  the  brlakety  ia 
thiekeil,  a^vd  has  giJtM^a ;  pat  yeur  kniHb  about  foav  ioahee 
iVem  t^edgee^  thia,  aad  cat  thaeugh  it,  whioh  wiilr  aeparat^ 
the  r&e  from  the'  bri^at.  Ask  wMbb  i»  ehoaen^  and  bel)p» 
aooopdhig^y. 

^tdf'O'  Aa^  baa  a  great-diet^  ei"  meat  upon  it,  if  prepevly 
muai^ed'.  CM  sHcea  ftem oto-d,  letCSngldie  kwib  gaokm  te 
thebone»  Pmtheieaby  part^  a|tha  neek^nd^,  there  Keathe 
throabaweHbrtaid,  ^i^  you  ahoiiid htf pa attee  of  ftana  r  te 


t  DIRECTIONS  FOR  CARVING.  17 

d  with  the  other  part.  Many  like  the  eye,  which  you  miist  cut 
oot  with  the  point  of  your  knife^  and  divide  in  two.  If 
the  jaw*bone  be  taken  o€^  there  will  be  (bond  some  fine  lean. . 
Under  the  head  is  the  palate,  which  is  esteemed  a  nicety :  the 
lady  of  the  house  should  be  acquainted  with  all  things  that  are 
thought  so,  that  she  may  distribute  them  among  her  guests. 

Shoulder  of  Mutton. — This  is  a  very  good  joint,  and  by 
many  preferred  to  the  leg;  it  being  very  full  of  gravy,  if 
properly  roasted,  and  produces  many  nice  bits.  The  figure 
represents  it  as  laid  in  the  dish  with  its  back  uppermost. 
When  it  is  first  cut,  it  should  be  ia^he  hollow  part  of  ip,  m 
the  direction  of  a,  b,  and  the  knife  should  be  passed  deep  to 
the  bone.  The  prime  part  of  the  fat  lies  on  the  outer  edge, 
and  is  to  be  cut  out  in  thin  slices  in  the  direction  e.  If  many 
are  at  table,  and  the  hollow  part  cut  in  the  line  a,  b,  is 
eaten,  some  very  good  and  delicate  slices  may  be  cut  out  on 
each  side  of  the  ridge  of  the  blade  bone,  in  the  direction  e,  d. 
The  line  between  these  two  dotted  lines,  is  that  in  the  direction 
of  which  the  edge  or  ridge  of  the  blade-bone  lies,  and  cannot 
be  cut  across. 

Leg  of  Mutton. — A  leg  of  wether  mutton  (which  is  the  best 
flavoured)  may  be  known  by  a  round  lump  of  fat  at  the  edge 
of  the  broadest  part,  as  at  a.  The  best  part  is  in  the  midway 
St  b,  between  the  knuckle  and  further  end.  Begin  to  help 
there,  by  cutting  thin  deep  slices  to  c.  If  the  outside  is  no^ 
fat  enough,  help  some  from  the  side  of  the  broad  end  in  slices 
from  e  to  /.  This  part  is  not  juicy ;  but  many  prei^  the 
knuckle,  which  in  fine  mutton  wiU  be  very  tender  though  dry. 
There  are  very  fine  slices  on  the  back  of  the  leg :  turn  it  up, 
and  cut  the  broad  end;  .not  in  the  direction  yon  did  the  other 
side,  but  longways.  To  cut  out  the  aramp^bone,  take  hold  of 
the  shank  with  yourjleft  hand,  and  cut  down  to  the  thigh4ione 
at  if ;  than  pass  the  knife  under  the  cramp-bone  in  the  direction 

A  Fore-quarter  of  Lamb.  Separate  the  shoulder  fVora  the 
scoven  (which  is  the  breast  and  ribs,)  by  passing  the  knifis 
under  the  direction  of  ./i,  b,  c,  d;  keeping  it  towards  you  hori- 
zontally to  prevent  cutting  the  meat  too  much  off  the  boner* 
If  grass*lamb,  the  shoulder  being  large,  put  it  into  another 
dish.  Squeeze  the  juice  of  half  a  Seville  orange,  or  lemon^  on 
I  D 


18  BOlfEBXIC  COOlCERT. 

ifae  Other  fMUfty  And  sprinkle  a  little  ealt  aad  pepper.  Thei^ 
veparate  the  gristly  put  from  the  ribs,  in  the  line,  e,  c ;  add. 
help  either  from  that,  or  from  the  ribe,  as  may  be  chi^seiw 

Haumch  of  Venuam.-^Cni  down  to  the  hone  in  the  line  a,  d^ 
e»  to  let  out  the  gravy  :  then  torn  the  broad  end  of  the  haunck 
toward  yon,  put  in  the  knife  at  4,  and  cut  as  deep  as  you  can 
to  the  end  of  the  hausdi  d  r  then  help  in  Ibni  dices,  observing 
to  give  some  fat  to  each  person. .  There  ia  more  fat  (which  i^ 
a  favodrite  part)  on  the  left  side  of  c  and  d  than  on  the  other  ; 
and  those  who  help  mast  take  care  to  proportion  it,  as  likewise 
the  gravy>  according  to  the  naniber  of  the  company. 

Bauneh  of  Mviton  is  the  leg  and  part  of  the  loin,  cut  so  as 
jk>  resemble  hsmnch  of  venison,  and  is  to  be  helped  at  table  i» 
the  same  manner. 

Saddle  (f  Mntton. — Cut  long  thin  slioesifrom  the  tail  to  the 
end,  bC^nning  close  to  the  back-bone.  If  n  large  joint,  th^ 
dice  Bsay  be  divided.     Cut  some  fat  from  the  sides. 

Tottgue.^^A  tongue  must  be  cut  across,  in  the  line  a,  Iv 
«nd  a  slice  taken  from  thenoe.  The  most  tender  and  juicy 
slices  will  be  about  the  middle,  or  between  the  line  a,  h^  and 
the  root.  For  the  fiit  aod  kernel  with  it,  cut  iiff  a  slice  of  root 
on  the  right  of  the  letter  b  at  the  bottom. 

jBRsm  may  be  cnt  three  ways;  the  common  method  is  to 
begii^in  the  middle,  by  long  slices  from  a  to  ft^,  from  the  centre 
throagh  the  thick  fat.  This  beings  to  the  prime  at  first ; 
which  is  likewise  aeoomplished  by  catting  a  small  round  hole 
•on  the  tep  of  the  ham  aeai  e,  and  with  a  sharp  knife  enlarging 
that  by  cutting  successive  thin  circles  :  this  preserves  the  gravy^ 
,aiid  fceoM  the  meet  moist. 

The  last  iM  most  savin^'^vay  is  to  begin  at  the  hock-'cncl 
(which  maiiy  4we  meat  fiind  ol)  And  proceed  onwards. 

Ham  that  is  used  for  pies,  should  be  cut  from  the  under 
iside^  first  taking  off  a  thi<:k  sUee. 

Leg  of  Porft.— 'This  joint,  whether  boiled  or  roasted,  is 
oea%  ip  to  tMo  aa  a  legof  mutton  roasted,  and  cut  op  in  the 
same  manner.  The  close  firm  flesh  aboiit  the  knuckk  nljj 
.tnany  esteemed  the  best.       \  *  ^       ■ 

SWikhig  Pfg.— -The  cook  usually,  divides  the  body  before 
it  is  sent  to  tabl^  and  gamishas  the  dish  with  the  jibwaand  ears. 


a^ttrjeiMiltUim,. 


BIRBCrtOMS  FOR  CARVIHO*  M 

'  Hie  fint  tluog  it,  to  sepsnile  «  ihoulikr  frdoi  the  earcase 
«&  oo€  tide.  Hid  thtea  tkt  leg  aecoediiig  to  the  difeoden  giveo 
bj  the  dotted  line,  «,  *,  e.  The  ribt  arethen  ta  be  divkWL 
into  about  two  bdpinga ;  and  an  ear  or  jaw  fHiewDted  with 
then,  end  plenty  of  saooe.  The  jointa  naj  either  be  divided 
inte  two  each,  or  pieces  tnayiie  cot  from  them.  The  ribs  «• 
eateemcd  the&eatpart;  botaome  people  prefo  the  neak-eod* 
between  the  aheoldera. 


POULTRY  AND  AAMB. 

Geos&^^nt  off  the  apron  in  ^e  circular  line  c,  b,  e,  and 
ponr  into  the  body  a  g|aaa  of  Port  wine,  and  a  large  tei^apoon* 
fbl  of  mnatard,  irst  miied  at  the  aadebeard*  Tom  the  nedc-* 
end  of  the  gooee  toward  yon»  and  cut  the  whole  breatt  in  long 
iHoaa  from  one  wing  to  another ;  but  only  remove  them  aa  yoa 
help  each  person,  unleaa  the  ooaapany  ia  an  large  aa  to  require 
the  legs  aiao.  Thia  way  givea  more  prime  bita  than  by  making 
wings.  Take  off  the  leg,  by  putting  the  fork  into  the  email 
end  of  sthe  bone,  pressing  it  to  the  body,  and  having  passed 
the  knife  at  tf,  turn  the  leg  back,  and  tf  a  young  bird,  it  wiH 
easily  aeparate.  To  take  off  the  wing,  put  yoor  fiork  into  the 
aeadl  end  of  the  pinmn,  and  press  it  cloie  to  the  body  ;  then 
pnt  in  the  knife  at  mi  and  liivide  the  jeintp  taking  it  down  in 
the  direction  d,  e.  JHotfaang  but  practice  will  enable  people  tQ 
hit  the  joint  exactly  at  the  first  trial.  When  the  leg  and  wing 
of  one  side  are  done,  go  on  to  the  othei* ;  but  it  is  not  eiken 
necessary  to  cut  np  the  whole  goose,  unless  the  compaaiy  be 
▼eiy  laiJge.  The  bestparts  of  a  goose  are  the  breast  slices,  the 
fleshy  part  of  the  wing,  which  may  be  divided  from  the  pinion ; 
the  thigh  bone,  which  may  be  easily  divided  in  the  joint  ftom 
the  legbaoebrdrumetadc;  the  pinion,  and  nest  the  side  bones. 
For  those  who  like  sage  and  onion  draw  it  out  with  a  qpomi 
firom  the  body,  at  the  place  where  the  apron  is  taken  from,  and 
«Bix  it  with  the  gravy,  which  should  ftrst  be  poured  fipom  the 
boat  into  the  body  of  the  goose,  befoxte  any  one  be  helped. 
The  nraip  is  a  nice  piece  to  those  -who  like  it ;  and  the-cMease 
is  by  some  prs0vred  to  other  parts,  as  being  more  juicy  and 
aaeee  savoury.  Of  a  gtum  g—H  the  most  ddicate  paid  are 
thebrcaati  and  the  griitfesKt  the  lower  part  of  it. 


• 


!M^  .     DOMESTIC  COOICERY. 

A  FowL-^K  boiled  fowl's  legs  a^  bent  liiwArds,  and  tucked 
into  the  belly  ;  but  before  it  is  served,  the  skewers  are  to  be 
removed.  Lay  the  fowl  on  your  plate,,  and  place  the  joints,  as 
you  cut,'  on  the  dish.  Take  the  wing  off  in  the  direetionof  «, 
to  6,  only  dividing  the  joint  with  your  knife;  and  then  with 
your  fork  lift  up  the  pinion,  and  draw  the  wings  towards  the 
legs,  and  the  muscles  will  separate  in  a  more  complete  form 
than  if  cut.  Slip  the  knife  between  the  leg  and  body,  and  cut 
to  the  bone ;  then  with  the  fork  turn  the  leg  back,  and  the 
joint  will  give  way,  if  the  bird  is  not  old.  When  the  four 
quarters  are  thus  removed,  take  off  the  merrythought  from  a, 
ami  the  neck-bones;  these  last  by  putting  in  the  knifo  at  c, 
and  pressing  it  under  the  long  .broad  part  of  the  bone  in  the 
line  Ct  b;  then  lift  it  up,  and  break  it  off  from  the  part  that 
sticks  ta  the  breast.  The  next  thing  is  to  divide  the  breast 
from  the  carcase,  by  cutting  through  the  tender  ribs  close  to 
the  breast,  quite  down  to  the  taiL  Then  lay  the  back  upwards, 
put  your  knife  into  the  bone  half-way  from  the  neck  to  the 
rump,  and  on  raising  the  lower  end  it  will  separate  readily. 
Turn  the  rump  from  you,  and  very  neatly  take  off  /the  two 
sidesmen,  and  the  whole  will  be  done.  As  each  part  is  taken 
off,  it  should  l«  turned  neatly  on  the  dish ;  and  care  should  be 
taken  that  what  is  left  geies  properly  from  table.  The  breast 
and  wings  are  thought  the  best  parts ;  but  the  legs  are  mo«t 
juicy  in  young  fowls.  After  all,  more  advantage  will  be  gain- 
ed by  observing  those  who  carve  well,  and  a  little  practice, 
than  by  any  written  directions  whatever. 

A  Pkea9aHt*'^The  bird  in  the  annofed  engraving  is  as 

trussed  for  the  spit,  with  its  head  under  one  of  its  wings. 

When  the  skewers  are  drawn  out,  and  the  bird  served,  the 

following  is  the  way  to  carve  it:  Fix  yoiir  fork  in  the  centre 

of  the  breast ;  slice  it  down  in  the.  line  a,  b  ;  take  off  the  leg 

on  one  side  of  the  dotted  line  6,  d ;  then  cut  off  the  wing  on 

the  same  side  in  the  line  c,  .<f.    Separate  the  leg  and  wing  on 

the  other  skle^  and  then  cut  off  the  slices  of  breast  yon  divided 

.before.     Be  careful  how  you  take  off  the  wings,  for  if  you 

ahould  cut  too  near  the  neck,  aa  atg*,  you  will  hit  on  the 

neck-bone,  from  which  the  .wing  must  be  separated.    Cut  off 

.'the  merrythought  in  the  line/,  gr,  by  passing  the  knifa  under 

it  towards  the  nec)L.    Cut  the  Qther  parts  as  in  a  fowl*    The 


BIRBCTIONB  FOR  CARVING.  21 

Ifttutf  wings,  and  merrythoiight,  are  ike  most  esteemed ;  but 
the  kg  has  a  higher  flavoar. 

TWAi^r.— -Roasted  or  boikd,  a  turkey  is  trvssed  and  sent 
up  to  tabk  Uke  a  fowl,  and  cut  up  in  every  respeet  like  a 
phsBsaat  The  best  parts  are  die  white  ones,  the  breast, 
wingi,  and  neck-bones.  Merrytfaoa|^  it  has  none ;  the  neck 
is  taken  away,  and  the  hollow  part  under  the  Iweast  stoicd 
with  ferosd  neat,  which  is  to  be  cat  in  thin  slices  in  the  direo* 
tisD  tnua  the  ramp  to  the  neck,  and  a  slice  given  with  eadi 
piece  of  turkey.  It  is  csastomary  not  to  cut  up  more  than  the 
braHt  of  this  bird ;  and,  if  any  more  be  wanted,  to  belp  with 
ODS  of  the  wings. 

Perlru(g«.««The  partridge  is  here  represented  as  just  taken 
fioom  the  spit ;  but  before  it  is  served  up  the  skewers  must  be 
withdrawn.  It  is  cut  up  in  the  same  way  as  a  fowl.  The 
wings  must  be  cut  o€  in  the  line  tf ,  h,  and  the  merrythought 
in  the  line  c,  if  .  The  prime  parts  of  a  partridge  are  the  wings, 
breast,  and  merrythought ;  but  the  bird  being  small,  die  two 
latter  are  not  <rften  divided.  The  wing  is  considered  as  the 
best,  and  the  tip  of  it  esteemed  the  most  delieate  morsel  ef  the 
whole. 

P^geims.— Cut  them  in  half,  either  from  top  to  bottom  or 
across.  The  lower  part  is  generally  thought  the  best ;  but 
the  direst  way  is  to  cut  from  the  neck  to  a,  rather  than  from  c 
to  b,  by  a,  which  is  the  most  fashionable.  The  figure  repre- 
sents the  back  of  the  pigeon ;  and  the  direction  of  the  knife  is 
in  the  line  c,  h,  by  a,  if  done  the  last  way. 

Dmek  or  MaUard. — First  raise  the  pinions  and  lege,  but 
do  not  cut  them  off;  then  raise  the  merrythought  from  the 
breast,  and  laoe  it  down  both  sides  with  yonr  knife. 

W^odeoek,  Pttur,  Smipe,  cr  Cwrkw.^^Tlub  legs  and  wings 
must  be  raised  in  the  manner  of  a  fowl,  epening'tfae  head  for 
the  brains. 

Clrcne.-*  After  the  legs  are  unMded,  cut  off  the  winge ;  take 
them  up,  and  sauce  them  with  powdered  ginger,  vinegar,  salt, 
-and.  mustard. 

ll8re.-^The  best  way  of  cutting  it  up  is,  to  put  the  point 

•  of  the  knife  under  the  shoulder  at  a,  md  so  eut  sli  the  way 

down  ta  the  rump,  on  one  side  of  the  baek-bone,  in  the  line  a, 

i.    Do  the  same  an  the  other  sid^  so  that  the  iriiok  hsore  will 


22  1>OME8TtC  COOKEHY. 

fas  divided  into  'three  fparte.  'Cut  the  back  into  four«  wU^' 
with  the  legs  is  the  part  most  esteemed.  The  shoulder  must 
be  out  off  in  •'cifcvlar  line,  as  c,  d,  e:  laj  the  pieces  neatly  on 
the  diih  as  yo«  eat  them ;  and  then  help  the  company,  giving 
seme  puddhig  and  gmvy  te  every  person.  This  way  can  only 
be  practised  when  the  hare  is  young  :  if  oM,  don't  divide  it 
down,  which  will  require  a  strong  asm;  but  put  the  knife 
between -die  leg  and  faacfc,  and  give  it  a  little  torn  inwards  at 
(he  joint;  whiehyou  must  endeavour  to  hit»  and  not  to  break 
byiforoe«  When  both  legs  are  taken  off,  Uiere  is  a  fine  collop 
on  eadi  side. of  the. back;  then  divide  the  back  into  as  many 
pieces  as  yon  please,  and  take  off  the  shoulders,  which  aee  by 
•many  prcrferred,  and  are  called  the  8portsman*s  pieces.  When 
every  one  is  helped,  cut  off  the  head ;  put  your  knife  between 
the  upper  and  lower  jaw,  and  divide  them,  which  wiU  enable 
you: 'to  lay  die  upper  flat  on  your  plate  ;  then  put  the.  point  of 
Ae  k«ife  into  fSat  centre,  and  cat  the  head  into  two.  The  ean 
and  brains  maybe  then  helped  to  those  who  choose  them. 

Oarve  HMnU  as  directed  the  latter  way  &r  hare ;  cutting 
the  baok  into  tivo  pieces,  wluch  with  the  legfs  an  the  prime* 


DIRECTIONS  FOR  TRUSSING. 

j[*HOUGH  die  LoDdon  poultensn  traes  every  thing  befbw 
they  sand  it  home,  yet  it'  is  ahaekttely  necessary  that  every 
cecdL  should Jmow  howto  |»erfann  this  business  properly,  as  it 
frequently  happens  that  families  take  their  cooks  wi^  them 
into  the  eouaitry,  where  they  see  obliged  to  draw  and  truss  all 
kiada  of  pouUiy  and  game  ihemsrives.  Let  them  therefore 
be  careful  to  attend  to  this  general  rule ;  take  care  that  all  Che 
■tubs eisejperfeotly  removed;  and  when  they  draw  any  kind  of 
peutery  or  game,  Aey  must  be  very  particahurnot  tobreak  the 
.ga&,  bcosnse  .it  will  gisie  tke  bkd.st  bitter  and  diaagieeahie 
:  Anronr,  #hiah  nflithsip  ^nshing  ner  itiping  sriU  be  4dble .  t» 


TRiraarffC. 


E^'/frJOmtafiMan 


ft':-        i-'-ii  ■ 


DIRB0TIO198.  VOS  TRVSSfNG. 


TImb  tnoMT  wiU  bs  nmtMialif  anisted  by  %  rdieiea^i 
to  the  ttmcicd  pliMit,  in  wlitdi  tke  |Hoper  fimfr  cT  eaeh  figme* 
ifll  be  found  opfMttly  delineated.    We  diatt  »mi»  proceed  wilb 
ptfticnlar  intlniCliana. 

3Wbfy<.*-MKkett  yen  have  properly  pidted  your  tutkey. 
Weak  the  kgi^boneclese  to  the  lbet»  and  draw  cut  the  ttringft 
frfln  die  tfaigb^  for  *  which  pnrpoee  you  mutt  pet  it  en  a  hoek 
fnnnwd  i^awai  the  eralL  €at  eflT  the  neck  doee  to  the  beek  ; 
hat  be  earefal  t»  leave  the  erop-tkin  auffieienliy  long  Do  tuni 
•Tcr  the  back.  Then  proceed  to  take  ont  the  crop,  and  looeen 
the  liver  and  gut  at  the  threat  end  with  your  anddle  finger. 
ThenoBt  off  the  vent,  and  teke  out  the  got.  With  n  eiiooked 
Bharp-pointed  iron  puU  ont  the  gicsard,  and  the  liver  wilLeooQ 
ibOow.  Be  oire&J,  however,  not  to  break  the  galL  With 
avetdeth  wiipeoBtthe  inaidepeifeetly  denn.  With  a  laqge 
knife  out  the  bma^ibii—  tfamugh  oa  each  aide  doie  to  tht 
bKk»  and  dnnr  the  legs  okae  te  the  crop.  Then  put  a  doth 
Ml  the  breaat,  and  heat  the  high>  hone  down  with  a  aoBiii^« 
|NU  titt  it  Uea  fiat.  Iff  the  tndLey  ia  tu  be  troaaad  ttm  boiling, 
cat  the  bga  off;  then  put  yenr  aaiddle  finger  into  the  insiAe^ 
niae  die  akin  of  the  l^;s,  and  pnt  themr  under  the  aprou  cf 
the  tuakey.  Put  a.  akewcr  in  the  joant  of  the  wii^g  and  the 
Middle  jont  ef  the  leg,  4BBd  run  it  through  the  body  and  the 
ether  lq|  and  wing.  The  Hver  and  gioaard  aauat  be  pQ%  in  tBe 
pmiena;  but  tataa  care  firat  to  open  the  ginaidl  and  take  out 
^  filth  ttoA  gaE  of  the  liver*  Then  torn  the  email  end 
ef  die  pinion  on  the  badk,  and  tie  a  packthread  over  th.e  «nde 
af  the  lege  to  iaeep  Aeenhi'thdr  placea.  If  tte  turkey  ia  to 
henaated,  leave  the  l^ga  en^  put  a  dcewer  in  the  joint  ef  the 
wing,  tudL  the  lega  doae  up»  and  put  the  akewer  through  the 
■MkUr  of  the  leg  and  body.  On  t)ie  ether  aide  put  aaether 
dMwer  in  the  anudl  part  of  the  leg.  Put  it  doae  on  the 
aetaide  of  the  aideamkn,  and  put  the  ekewer  thMui^  and  the 
■one  en  the  ether  aide.  Put  the  liver  and  giaaatd  between  the 
pkuooB,  and  turn  the  point  of  the  pinion  en  Che  back.  Thef^ 
pe^  doae  above  the  pisnona^  another  akewer  through  the  bod|r 
ef  die  turkey. 

TuriLoy  polu  muat  be  truaaed  in  the  ftUowing  nmuner  i 
Itfce  the  neek  finn  the  head  and  bedy^  but  do  net  seoaoeetW 
utkaktik    They  aw  drawn  in  the  -aane  nuumev  as  a  tadugr^ 


24  DOMESTIC  cookery/ 

Pot  a  skewer  through  the  joint  of  the  pinion,-  tuck  the  legs 
•close,  run  the  skewer  throu^  the  middle  of  the  leg,  through 
the  body,  and  so  on  the  other  side.  Cut  off  the  under  pert  of 
the  bill,  twist  the  skin  of  the  neck  round,  and  put  the  head  on 
the  point  of  the  skewer,  with  the  bill  end  forwin^s.  Another 
skewer  must  be  put  in  the  sidesman,  and  the  legs  placed  be- 
tween the  sidesman  and  apron  on  each  side.  Pass  the  skewer 
through  all,  and  cot  off  the  toe-nails.  It  is  very  common  to 
lard  them  on  the  breast.  The  liver  and  gizzard  may  or  may 
not  be  used,  as  you  like. 

Gffe^.—: Having  picked  and  stubbed  your  goose  clean,  cot 
the  feet  off  at  the  joint,  and  the  pinion  off  at  the  first  joint. 
Then  cut  off  the  neck  close  to  the  back ;  but  leave  the  skin  of 
the  neck  long  enough  to  turn  over  the  back.  Pull  out  the 
4;hroat,  and  tie  a  knot  at  the  end.  With  your  middle  finger 
loosen  the  liver  and  other  matters  at  the  breast  end,  and  cut  it 
open  between  the  vent  and  the  rump.  Having  done  this,  draw 
out  all  the  entrails,  excepting  the  soal.  Wipe  it  out  clean  with 
a  wet  doth,  and  beat  the  breast>bone  flat  with  a  roliing-pin« 
Pot  a  skewer  into  the  wing,  and  draw  the  legs,  close  up.  Pot 
a  skewer  through  the  middle  of  the  leg,  and  through-  the 
body,  Md  the  same  on  the  other  side.  Put  another  skewer  in 
the  small  of  the  leg,  tuck  it  dose  down  to  the  sidesman,  run 
it  through,  and  do  the  same  on  the  other,  side.  Cut  off  the 
end  of  the  Tent,  and  make  a  hole  large  enough  for  the  passage 
of  the  rump,  as  it  holds  the  seasoning  much,  better  by  that 

means. 

DtfrA:^.— Dueks  are  trussed  in  <he  same  manner  as  geese, 
excepting  *tbat  the  feet  are  left  on  the  ducks,  and  are  tamed 
close  to  the  legs. 

/bie2f.— They  must  fir$t  be  picked  very  dean,  and  the  neck 
cut  off  dose  to  the  back.  Then  take  out  the  crop,  and  witK 
your  middle  finger  loosen  the  liver  and  other  matters.  Cut  off 
the  vent,  draw  it  clean,  and  beat  the  breast»bone  fiat,  with  a 
rdling-pin.  If  your  fowl  is  to  be  boiled,  cut  off  the  nails  of 
the  fieet,  and  tudr  them  down  close  to  the  leg.  Pot  your  finger 
into  the  inside,  and  raise  the  skin  of  the  1^^ ;  then  cut  a  hde 
in  the  top  of  the  skin,  and  put  the  1^  under.  Put  a  ske#er 
in  the  first  joint  of  the  pinion,  bring  the  middle  of  the  leg 
close  to  h,  pot  the  skewer  through  the  middle  of  the  leg»  and 


HIBICTIOHA    POX   TSU88INO. 


*N^  tiw  iMrfy.    I>o  tiM  SMM  on  the  oUkt  mk.    ife^ 
flpcMd  the  gisaid»  tekc  o«t  the  filth,  and  the  gall  Mt  of  the 
liMr.    Pirt  the  ginud  end  the  liver  in  the  puMons,  and  tnm 
tke  poiat  en  the  back.    Remember  to  tie  a  string  over  the  topa 
ef  tbe  lege,  to  keq>  them  in  their  proper  place.    If  your  fawl 
ii-to  be  roaatedy  put  a  akewer  in  the  fint  joint  of  the  pinion^ 
•ad  fanig  ^  middle  of  the  leg  olooe  to  it.    Pot  the  akewer 
tkoagh  the  middle  of  the  leg,  and  throngh  the  body,  and  do 
tbemaMOB  the  other  side.    Pat  another  skewer  in  the  smaH 
sf  die  leg,  and  thnHigh  the  ludesman.     Do  the  same  on  the 
edwrade..    Putanother  skewer  throogh  the  skin  of  the  feet. 
ToB  flwat  not  loigat  that  the  nails  ai«  to  be  out  off. 

•  CUrhrns.**  These  mnst  be  picked  and  dratwn  in  the  saaw 
naaaer  as  fowls.    If  the  chickens  are  to  be  boiled,  cat  off  the 
mih,  give  the  sinews  a  nick  on  each  side  of  the  joint,  put  the 
ftdia  at  the  vent,  and  then  put  in  the  rump.    Draw  the  skin 
tight,  ever    the   lega,   put  a  skewer  in  the  first  joint  of  the 
liiaMa,  and- bring  the  middle  of  the  leg  close.    Pat  the  skewer 
tkivagh  the  mkklle  of  the  legs,  and  throngh  the  body,  and  do 
tk  saiae  on  the  other  side.    Clean  the  gissard,  and  take  ont 
ikegaH  in  the  liver ;  put  them  into  the  pinions^  and  turn  the 
pMHsontlie  back.    U  your  cbiokensare  to  be  roasted,  cat  off 
tk  feet,  pat  a  skewer  in  the  first  joint  of  the  pinions,  and 
fansg  the  middle  of  the  leg  close.    Ron  the  akewer  through 
the  mkktte  <»f  the  leg,  and  through  the  body,  and  do  the  same 
n  the  other  aide.    Put  another  skewer  into  the  sidesman,  pat 
the  legs  between  the   apron  an<|  the  sidesman,  and  run  the 
dwwer  through.    Having  cleaned  the  liver  and  giasard,  put 
than  hi  the  pinionB,  tarn  the  pobts  on  the  back  and  over  the 
■ttk,  and  pull  the  breast  shin. 

WM  Fmoi.^The  directions  we  are  giving  will  answer  fer 
sD  hinds  of  wild  fowl  in  general.  Havmg  picked  them  clean, 
est  off  the  neek  close  to  the  back,  and  with  your  middle  finger 
hosdi'the  liv*er  and  guts  next  the  breast.  Cut  off  the  piniona 
it  dirftti  joiqit,  then  cut  a  slit  between  the  vent  and  the  mmp» 
umI  draw  them  clean.  Clean  them  properly  with  the  long 
fatthera  on  the  wing,  cut  off  the  nails,  and  torn  the  feet  close 
to  die  legn.  Put  a  skewier  mto  the  pinions,  pull  the  legs  dose 
ts  die  breast,  and- run  the  skewer  thfongh  the  kB**  ^^f  ^^ 
I  ■ 


M  JKIMBSTIC    COOILART. 

vfkffedttier.'^ioA.     First  out  off  tlie  vent,  iMrid    thueii  put  ^ 

.P^ctJii.— *  Yon  .mast  fimt  piok  ibesn,  and  4aiil  off  the  Mek 
.<io^  to  ike  hiMBk.  Then  take  ont  the  cc9p>  cvt  off  the  vtm, 
.mmi  draw  but.the  guts  aii4  gi^aoaid,  but  l^ve  in  the  liver,  fir 
^srpigeoD  baa  no.gall.  If  your  pigeaua  are  to.  be  roasled*  ciil 
off  the  toea»  cut.a  alit  ia  one  of.  the  legi,  and  pat  the  other 
•thnongh.  it.  CNraw  the  leg  tight  tlo  the  pinion,  put  a  akewer 
jihnmgfa  .thci  piniona,  lega,  and  body,  and  ivith  the  handle  of 
«  knife  faredL  the  JHfiast  Ant.  Oeaa  die  gizaaid,  pat  it  in  one 
of  the  pittioiiSy  and  tuni  the  point  on  the  back.  If  .yoo  intend 
to  make  a  pileof  theni»  you  linnet  eut  the  feet  off  at  the  jgini 
inm  the  kgi^  and  dtick  them  in  the  aidea  close  to  the  piniona. 
If  th^  aoe  to  be  stewed  or  boiled*  they  tnust  he  done  in  the 
name  manner. 

W4fodeocks  and  &iijpc«.^Theae  biida  ^re  very  tender  to 
picky  eSpeoiaMy  if  they  be  not  quite  freah.  They  mast  there* 
fore  be  handled  as  little  as  posatbie,  for  even  the  heat  of  the 
luiad  will  sometimes  putt  off  the  skin,  when  the  beauty  ef 
your  bird  will  be  destroyed.  When  you  have  pidied  thaat 
eleaB»  ctit  the  pinions  off  at  the  first  joint,  and  with  the  lianAa 
of  rkoife  beat  the  breast-bOne  iiat.  Turn  tiie  legs  olaae  In 
the  thighs,  and  tie  tbem  together  at  the  joints.  Put  the 
ikif^  close  to  the  pinions,  .put  a  skewer  into  the  pinion,  and 
run  it  throi^  the  thighs,  body,  and  the  other  pinion.  Skin 
the  bead,  turn  it,  take  out  the  eyes,  and  put  the  head  on  the 
point  of  the  skewer  with  the^  bill  close  to  the  breaat.  Wood* 
eocks,  snipes,  or  plovers,  are  trussed  in  the  same  manner,  bnt 
must  never  be  drawn. 

Lark$^  Wfuai-ears,  4r^.— When  you  have  picked  them 
dean,  cut  off  tiieir  heads,  and  the  pinions  at  the  6ret  joint. 
]feat  the  breast'bone  flat  with  the  handle  of  a  knife,  turn  the 
ftet  dose  to  the  legs,  and  put  one  into  the  other.  Draw  ont 
ihe  giz»iid,  aad  run  a  afcewer  thmmgh  the  middle  of  the 
bfdks  of  as  many  as  you  mMB  to  dresst  Th^  must  be  tiei 
IP  tihe  spit.  / 

JRkfOsmUs  :9md  Parifulgf9,'^Pkk  them  very  dean,  «»t  a 
alit  at  the  back. of  the  neck,  take  out  the  crop,  sand  JiooifesL'tba 
Ktnr  and  gut  next  the  breast  with  your  fore-finger;  then  cut-off 
the  vent,  and  draw  them.     Cut  off  the  pinion  at  the  first  |oint, 


DIRBCYtONS   roil    TRV^StNG.  ttf 

•ad  wipe  ovi  the  inside  with  the  pioioii  you  have  cut  off;  for 
ym  never  need  pick  these  birds  beyond  the  first  joint  of  the 
pinioa.  Wth  a  rolling-pin  beat  the  breast-bone  flat,  pat  a 
Aewer  in  the  pinion,  and  bring  the  middle  of  the  legs  close. 
Then  run  the  skewer  through  the  legs,  body,  and  the  other 
pinkn ;  bring  the  head,  and  put  it  oa  the  end  of  the  skewer, 
the  bill  ftontbg  the  breast.  Put  another  skewer  into  the  sides- 
nna,  and  put  the  legs  dose  on  each  side  the  apron,  and  then 
nu  the  skewer  through  all.  You  must  leave  the  beautiful 
feaChers  on  the  head  of  the  cock  pheasant,  and  put  paiper  t# 
pftntBt  the  bad  eifebts  of  the  fire.  You  must  also  save  the 
long  feathers  in  the  tafl  to  stidc  in  the  rump  when  roasted.  In 
the  same  manner  are  trussed  all  kinds  of  moor-gfame.  If  they 
lie  to  be  boiled,  put  the  legs  in  the  manner  as  in  trussing  a 
ibfrt  for  boffling. 

iKfrft.-*-Having  cut  off  the  four  legs  at  the  first  joint, 
tiU  Ae  skin  of  the  back,  and  draw  it  over  the  hind  l^gs. 
Leave  the  tail  whole,  draiAr  the  skin  over  the  back,  and  slip 
ant  Ihe  fore  legd.  Cut  the  skin  off  the  neck  and  head ;  but 
tAe  care  to  leave  the  ears  on,  and  mind  to  skin  them.  Tak^' 
out  the  Bveir,  Kghts,  Stc.  but  be  sure  to  take  the  gut  out  of  the 
fint  Cut  the  sinews  that  lie  under  the  hind  legs,  bring  thiem 
■ptotfie  forelegs,  put  a  skewer  through  the  hind  teg,  then 
flhrougfa^the  fbre  leg  under  the  joint,  run  it  through  the  body, 
and  do  Hbe  same  on  the  other  side.  Put  another  skewer 
thntaqglli  the  thick  part  of  the  hind  legs  and  body,  put  the  head  j 

Iwhvean  the  shoulders,  and  run  a  skewer  through  to  keep  it  in  ^* 

iti  place.     Put  a  skewer  in  each  ear  to  make  them  stand  erect^' 
and  ti^  a  string  round  the  middle  of  the  body  over  the  legs  U> 
lai^  flieiD  in  tbfeir  plaee.    You  may  truss  a  young  faWn  in  the 
tafl^iaAn)ier,  only  mind  to  cut  off  th^  ears. 

JIfaMffa.— *ttabbits  are  to  be  cased  in  the  same  manner  as 
haica,  oinly  dfanerve  to  cut  off  the  ears  close  to  the  head.  Cut 
tbt  i^ait  opi^;  and  slit  the  legs  about  an  inch  upon  each  side 
dkf  rtttip.  iXake  the  hind  legs  lie  flat,  and  bring  the  ends 
to  the  fore  l€^.  Put  a  skewer  in  the  hind  leg,  then  in  the 
kfitlkg^M  through  the  body.  Bring  the  head' round,  and 
pnV* it  ^ili^ 'skewer,  tf  you  want  to  roast  tw<>  tog^her,  truss 
tKin'  AVftff  Ibiigth.  vrith  six  skewers  through  them  both,  so^ 
thkttfiey  mkybrfproJ>crly  fastened  on  the  spit. 


2tt  1>OM«STlC   COOKSB¥. 


OP  MARKETING. 


•  t 


j[T  is  requisite,  in  the  first  place,  to  know  the  different  parf^^ 
those  animals  which  are  brought  into  our  markets,  ready 
slaughtered,  and  generally  denominated  butcher's  memt. 

The  ox,  or  cotr,  when  killed,  is  called  keefy  in  which  tlie 
fore-quarter  consists  of  the  haunch,  which  includes  the  c|od» 
inanrow-bone,  shin,  and  the  sticking-piece,  which  is  the  neck- 
end.  The  next  is  the  leg  of  mutton-piece,  which  has  part  of 
the  blade-bone ;  then  the  chuck,  the  .  brisket,  the  fore-ribs, 
and  middle  rib,  which  is  called  the  chuck-rib.  The  hind 
quarter  contains  the  sirloin. and  rump,  the  thin  and  thick  flank, 
the  veiny-piece,  and  the  isch,  aitch,  or  ash-bone,  buttock,  and 
leg.  These  are  the  principal  parts  of  the  carcase,  besides 
••which  are  the  head,  tongue,  and  palate.  The  entrails  are, 
the  sweetbreads,  kidneys,  skirts,  and  tripe ;  of  the  latter  of 
which  there  are  three  sorts,  the  double,  the  roll,  and  the  i^ed 
tripe.  Beef  is  never  out  of  season  all  the  year  round,  though 
for  salting  £nd  hangiag  it  is  best  from  Michaelmas  to  Lady^ 
day. 

In  a  sheep,  the  fore-quarter  contains  the  neck,  breaal,  and 
shoulder;  and  the  hind-quarter,  the  leg  and  loin.  The  two 
loins  together  are  called  a  saddle  of  mutton,  which  is  jesteem-. 
ed  as  a  fine  dish  when  the  meat  is  small  and  fat.  .  Two  necks 
together  form  the  chine.  Besides  these,  are  the  head  and 
pluck,  which  includes  the  liver,  lights,  heart,  sweetfiR»Rds, 
and  melt.  Mutton  is  b  season  from  the  middle  of  Augiost  till 
May. 

In  a  calf,  the  fore-quarter  consists  of  the  shoulder,  neck, 
and  breast ;  and  the  hind-quarter  is  the  leg  which  contains  the 
knuckle,  the  fillet,  and  the  loin.  The  head  and  inwards  are 
called  the   plud( ;  in    Staffordshire,    the  culfs  race;  and   in. 


OF   MARKBTIIVG.  W 

Laacuhire*  thtmudcaif;  it  oonsiato  of  the  heart,  liver,  lights, 
ait,  and  melt,  aad  what  is  called  the  skirts ;  the  throat  sweet- 
biead,  and  die  wind-pipe  sweetbread.  Veal,  from  its  speedy 
decay  in  hot  or  dose  weather,  is  generally  allowed  to  be  best 
Iran  Chjnstmas  to  June. 

The  fore-quarter  of  a  i0mb  eonsistsof  a  shoulder,  neck,  and 
breast,  together.  The  hind-quarter  is  the  leg  and  loin..  The 
head  and  pluck  consists  of  the  liver,  lights,  heart,  nut,  and 
Bidt;  as  also  the  fry,  which  \a  formed  of  the  sweetbread, 
lamb-stones,  and  skirts,  with  some  of  the  liver.  Lamb  n^ay 
be  had  at  all  times  in  the  year ;  but  it  is  particularly  in  high 
tttaon  at  Christmas,  when  it  is  considered  as  one  of  the  greatest 
presents  that  can  be  made  from  any  person  in  London  to 
another  residing  in  the  country. 

Grtn-iamb  comes  in  about  April  or  May,  according  to  the 
aature  of  the  weather  at  that  season  of  the  year.  In  general 
it  holds  good  to  the  middle  of  August. 

FenUon^ '  if  buck,  comes  in  season  in  May,  and  ^ntinues 
10  tin  November ;  and  if  doe,  its  season  is  from  Michaelmas  to 
Candlemas. . 

In  a  kogf  the  fore-quarter  is  the  fore-leg  and  spring ;  and, 
if  it  is  a  large  hog,  you  hiay  cut  off  a  spare-rib.  The  hind- 
quarter  is  only  the  leg  and  loin.  The  inwards  form  what  is 
called  the  haslet,  which  consists  of  the  liver,  crow,  kidney, 
and  skirts.  Besides  these  there  are  chitterlins,  or  guts,  the 
asaller  parts  of  which  are  cleansed  for  sausages  and  black- 
puddings. 

What  is  called  a  b€e4m  hog  is  cut  differently,  on  account  of 
making  hams,  bacon,  and  pickled  pork.  Here  you  have  fine 
tpare^ribs,  chines,  and  griskins,  and  fat  for  hog*s  lard.  The 
liver  and  crow  are  much  admired  fried  with  bacon. 

The  proper  season  for  pork  commences  about  Bartholomew- 
tide,  and  lasts  all  the  winter.  When  the  summer  beginp,  it 
^ws  flabby,  and  is  therefore  not  used  except  by  those  who 
are  particularly  attadied  to  that  kind  of  animal  provision. 

Hams  and  bacon  aie  never  out  of  season  when  careAifiy 
cared. 

We  shall  eonclade  this  'department  widi  the  foliowing  lise- 
fcl  illastratiicMis  of  the  marketing  plate. 


M 


lK»MBfTfC   COORBKY 


MARKETING  PLATE. 


Quarter. 

1  Sirimn. 

2  Rump. 

8  Aiteh  bone. 

4  Battodc. 

5  Mouse  buttock. 

6  Veiny  piece. 

7  Thick  flank. 

8  Thin  flatfk. 

9  Leg. 


1  Loin,  best  end. 
S  Loin,  diump  end. 
8  Fillet. 
4  Hind  knuckle. 
8  Fare  knuckle. 


BBBP. 

Fore  Quarier, 

10  Fore  rib ;  6  ribs. 

11  Middle  rib ;  4  ribs. 

12  diuc^;  dribs. 

18  Shoulder,  or  leg  of  inat- 
ton  piece. 

14  Brisket. 

15  Clod. 

16  Neck,  or  sticking  piece. 

17  Shin. 

VBAL. 

6  Neck,  best  end. 

7  Neck,  scrag  end. 

8  Blade  bone. 

9  Breast,  best  end. . 
W  ftreaat,  brisket  cad. 


¥BNISON. 

1  Haonch. 

2  Neck. 

8  Shoulder. 
4  Breast. 

tURTLB. 


1  The  spare-rib. 

2  Hand. 

3  BeUy,  or  spring. 


1  Leg. 

2  Loin,  best  end. 

§  Lois,  chump  end. 
4  Neck,  best  end. 
i  Neck,  scrag  end. 


4  Foreldin. 

6  Hind  loin. 
«  Leg. 

MUTTON. 

5  fihoyldbr. 

7  Breast. 

A  eMne  is  two  niteb. 
A  midh  is  two  knns. 


«F  MARKETlNa.  H 

TO   CHOOSE  MEATS. 

Beef.^lf  the  flesh  of  ox-beef  is  young  it  will  have  a  fine 
smooth  open  grain*  be  of  a  good  red,  and  feel  tender.  The  fat 
ihoiild  lodi  white  rather  than  yellow,  for  when  that  is  of  a 
deep  colour,  the  meat  is  seldom  good  ;  beef  fed  by  oilcakes  is 
is  general  so,  and  the  flesh  is  flabby.  The  grain  of  cow-beef 
u  closer,  and  the  fat  whiter^  than  that  of  ox-beef;  but  the  lean 
is  not  of  so  bright  a  red.  The  grain  of  bull-beef  is  closer  still» 
die  fat  hard  and  skinny,  the  lean  of  a  deep  red,  and  a  stronger 
scent.  Ox-beef  is  the  reverse.  It  is  the  richest  and 
largest ;  but  in  small  families,  and  to  some  tastes,  heifer-beef 
is  better  if  finely  fed.  In  old  meat  there  is  a  streak  of  horn  in 
flke  ribs  of  beef:  the  harder  this  b,  the  older ;.  and  the  flesh  is 
sot  finely  flavoured. 

Ffo/.— The  flesh  of  a  bull-calf  is  the  firmest,  but  not  so 
white.  The  fillet  of  a  cow-calf  is  generally  preferred  for  the 
adder.  The  whitest  is  not  the  most  juicy,  having  been  made 
so  by  irequent  bleeding,  and  having  had  whiting  to  lick. 
Choose  the  meat  of  which  the  kidney  is  well  covered  with  thick 
white  fat.  If  the  bloody  vein  in  the  shoulder  looks  blue,  or 
of  a  bright  red,  it  is  newly  killed  ;  but  any  other  colour  shows 
H  stale.  The  other  palts  should  be  dry  and  white ;  if  clammy 
or  spotted,  the  meat  is  stale  and  bad.  The  kidney  turns  first 
is  the  loin,  and  the  ^uet  will  not  then  be  firm.  The  head,  if 
new  and  sweet,  must  have  the  eyes  plump  and  lively  ;  bat  if 
they  are  sunk  or  wrinkled,  it  is  not  good.  This  rule  also 
applies  to  the  head  of  a  sheep  or  lamb. 

Vtnimm.-^li  the  fat  be  clear,  bright,  and  thick,  and  the 
cleft  part  smooth  and  close,  it  is  young ;  but  if  the  cleik  is 
wide  and  rough,  it  is  old.  To  judge  of  its  sweetness,  nm  a 
very  shatp  nanow  knife  into  the  shoulder  or  haunch,  and  you 
wjU  know  by  the  soent.  Few  people  like  it  when  it  has  much 
of  (he  hmd'gcn*. 

Port. -r-Pinch  the  lean,  and  if  youqg  it  will  break.  If  the 
rU  is  tough,  thick,  aad  cannot  be  easily  impressed  by  the 
fitafo;  it  ia  old.  A  thin  vind  is  a  merit  in  all  pork.  When 
fresh,  thn  flesh  will  be  snuiolli  and  cool ;  if  dammy,  it  is  tainted. 
Wbii  b  oallad  nwasly  poik  ia  very  unwholesome ;  and  may  be 
ktown  by  the  iiat  4seing  Aill  of  kernels,  which  in  good  pock  is 
sever  the  case.     Posrk  led  at  stiH^houses  does  not  answer  f<fr 


19  BOMS6TIC   COOKJUKT. 

curing  mky  way,  the  fat  being  spongy.     Dairy-fed  pork  is  the 
best. 

Aftf/f on.— Choose  this  by  the  fineness  of  its  grain^  good 
folour,  and  firm  white  fat.  It  is  not  the  better  for  being 
young ;  if  of  a  good  breed,  and  well  fed,  it  is  better  for  age ; 
but  this  only  holds  with  wether-mutton :  the  flesh  of  the  ewe 
is  paler,  and  the  texture  finer.  Ram  mutton  b  very,  strong* 
flavoured,  the  flesh  is  of  a  deep  red,  and  the  fat  spongy. 

Lamb.  -  Observe  the  neck  of  a  fore  quarter :  if  the  i«in .  is 
bluish,  it  is  fresh ;  if  it  has  a  green  or  yellow  cast,  it  is  stale. 
In  the  hind  quarter,  if  there  is  a  faint  smell  under  the  .kidney, 
and  the  knudile  is  limp,  the  meat  is  stale.  If  the  eyes  ane 
sunk,  the  head  is  not  fresh.  Grass  lamb  comes  into  season  in 
April  or  May,  and  continues  till  August.  House  lamb  may 
be  had  in  great  towns  almost  all  the  year,  but  is  in  the  higfiest 
perfection  in  December  and  January. 

Bacon.— If  the  rind  is  thin,  the  fat  firm,  and  of  a  red  tiiig^, 
the  lean  tender,  of  a  good  colour,  and  adhering  to  the  bone, 
you  may  conclude  it  good,  and  not  old.  If  there  are  yellow 
Streaks  in  it,  it  is  going,  if  not  already  rusty. 

H4?m«.— Stick  a  sharp  knife  under  the  bone ;  if  it  comes 
out  with  a  pleasant  smell,  the  ham  is  good ;  but  if  tbe  knife  is 
daubed  and  has  a  bad  scent,  do  not  buy  it.  Hams  short  in  the 
hock  are  best,  and  long-legged  pigs  are  not  to  be  chosen  for  any 
preparations  of  pork. 

Brawn.  r-The  horny  part  of  young  brawn  will  feel  mode- 
rately tender,  and  the  flavour  will  be  better ;  the  rind  of  old 
will  be  hard. 

s  • 

TO   CHOOSE  FISH. 

Salmon.^K  new,  the  ^h  is  of  a  fine  red,  (the  gills  paiti*  * 
eolarlly)  the  scales  bright,  and  the  whole  Ash  stiflT.  Whan  jsst 
killed,  there  is  a  whiteness  between  the  flakes,  wtiieli  gives  ■ 
great  firmness ;  by  keeping,  Ihis  melts  down,  and  the  HA  is 
mo^rich.  The  Thames  sslmon  bears  the  highest  prii:fe;'tftnt 
cftttgbl  in  the  Severn  is  next  in  goodness,  and  is  even  pi<efaY«d 
hyi$ome.    Small  heads,  and  thick  in  the  neck,  are  best* 

.  Turiot^  if  good,  should  be  thick,  and  the  bdly  of  a  yellow- 
isli  white ;  if  of  a  bluish  cast,  or  thin,  they  ire  imd.  '  Thty 
a«r  m,  season  the  greatest  p4rt  of  the  sumnsr.     . 


•       f?^.— Th^  gilla  sfiotiW   be  Ter>-  red:  the 'fist  shouM  Ifc 
Very  thick  at  the  neck,  the  flesh  white  anrf  firm,  and  tlie  eyei 
'fh»h.     When  flabby  they  are  not  gooA,     They  are  in  season 
ftbin  the  beginning:  of  December  til!  ifit  end  of  April. 

Skdte.—lf  good,  they  are  very  white  and  thick.     If  ttk) 
-flresk,  they  eat  tough,  but  must  not  Ibe  kept  above  two  days. 

Hrrringt.—lf  good,  their  ^ils  are  of  a  ^ne  red,  and  djfe 
«yes  bright ;  as  is  likewise  the  whole  f^sh,  which  must  be  stltf 
'and  firm. 

Sprats  —Choose  by  the  saine  rules  as  herring?.  ' 

&fei.— If  good,  tRey  are  thick,  and  thfe  belly  is  of  acrcanl 

colour ;  if  thre  is  of  a  bhiish  cast  and  flabbv:  they  are  n6t  fresh'. 

They  arc  in  the  market  almost  the  whole  year,  but  arfe  in  thb 

lligfaest  perfection  about  midsummer. 

fl^Mtings. — The  firmness  of  the  body  and  fins  is  to  bfe 
looked  to,  as  in  herrings :  their  high  seasoh  is  durmg  the  firA 
t&ree  months  of  the  year,  but  they  may  be  had  a  great  par( 
rfh. 

MackareL^Choo^e  as  whitings.  Their  season  is  May^ 
Jrnie,  and  July.  They  Are  so  tender  a  fish  that  they  carry  and 
keep' Worse  than  any  other. 

Pike, — For  freshness  observe  the  above  remarks.  The  best 
are  taken  in  rivefs:  they  are  a  very  dry  fish,  and  are  mucK 
indebted  to  stufling  and  sauce. 

Cmf  live  some  time  out  of  water,  attd  may  therefore  get 
Wasted ;  it  i*  best  to  kill  them  as  soon  as  caught,  to  prevent 
tk&.    The  same  sign  of  firesimess  attend  them  as  other  fish. 

7>«cA.— They  are  a  fine-flavoured    fresh-water  fish',   and 
Aotdd  be  kilted  and  drcs^d  as  s6ob  as  caught.     Wheh  'they 
are  to  be  bought,  examine  whether  the  gills  are  red  aAd  hai^ 
f5  open,  the'  eyes  bright,  and  the  body  stiff.     The  tench*  Ibaa 
a  sHmy  matter  about  it,  the  clearness  and  brightness  of  whidK  ^ 
^bem  freshness.    The  season  is  July,  August,  and  Septenlbei*: ' 
P^rrA.— Take  the  general  rules  given  to  distinguish   th^"^ 
fireflliness  of  other  fish.     They  are  not  so  delicate  as  carp*  and 
lettcb. 

JIW/W*.— The  sea  are-  preferred  td  the  fiver  mullets,  and 
the  red  to  the  grey.  *  They  should  be  very  firm ;  theif  seiEtsdi 
is  /logust!  _      *  ..       . 

Gudgeim$.--i!bey  are  ehosen  by  the  s«me  -iMeV  it  XfOi^t^ 
3  F 


a4  DOM&STIC   COOK&ftT. 

Adh.    They  ate  laken  in  runnini;  atrefunB ;  come  in  about  iiiid«^ 
summer,  and  are  in  season  five  or  six  months. 

5torg*eofif.-When  good,  they  must  have  a  fine  blue  in  tli^e 
veins  and  gristle :  the  flesh  should  be  perfectly  white,  and  cut 
without  crumbling. 

Smelts,  if  good,  have  a  fine  silvery  hue,  are  very  firm^  and 
have  a  refreshing  smell  like  cucumbers  newly  cut.  They  ave 
caught  in  the  Thames  and  some  other  large  rivers. 

£f/«.— There  b  a  greater  difference  in  the  goodness  of  ^eeb 
than  of  any  other  fish.  Those  taken  in  great  floods  are  gene- 
rally good,  but  in  ponds  they  have  usually  a  strong  rank 
flavour.  EiLcept  the  middle  of  summer,  they  are  always  ia 
season. 

LoMeri.-^K  they  have  not  been  long  taken,  the  dawv 
will  have  a  strong  motion  when  you  put  your  finger  on  the 
eyes  and  press  them.  The  heaviest  are  the  best,  and  it  ki 
preferable  to  boil  them  at  home.  When  you  buy  them  ready 
boiled,  try  whether  their  tails  are  stiff,  and  pull  up  with  a 
spring;  otherwise. that  part  will  be  flabby*  The  coek-lobater 
is  known  by  the  narrow  back  part  of  his  tail,  and  the  two 
uppermost  fins  within  it  are  stiff  and  hard ;  but  those  of  the 
hen  her  soft,  and  the  tail  broader.  The  mak,  though  gene* 
rally  smaller,  has  the  highest  flavour,  the  flesh  is  firmer,  and 
the  colour  when  boiled  is  a  deeper  red. 

Cradf .— The  heaviest  are  best,  and  those  of  a  middling  sijee 
are  sweetest.  If  light  they  are  watery ;  when  in  perfection  th^ 
joints  of  the  legs  are  stiff,  and  the  body  has  a  very  agreeable 
smell.    The  eyes  look  dead  and  loose  when  stale* 

Prawns  and  Shrimps.--yfhea  fresh  they  have  a  sweet 
flavour,  are  firm  and  stiff,  and  the  c(4our  is  bright, 

C^^lcrs.— There  are  several  kinds.  When  alive  and  strong 
the  shell  closes  on  the  knife.  They  should  be  eaten  as 
soon  as  opened,  the  flavour  becoming  poor  otherwise.  The 
rock-oyster  is  largest,  but  usually  has  a  coarse  flavour  if  eaten 
iraw. 

Plates  and  Flounders. — They  should  be  thick,  firm^  aad 

have  their  eyes  bright.     They  very  soon  become  flabby  and 

bad.    They  are  both  sea  and  river  fish.    The  plaice  is  beat 

when  the  body  has  a  bluish  cast.    They  are  in  season  from 

.  Janvaij:  to  Msjrdi«  and  from  July  to  September* 


f>r    MARKETINGS. 


TO  CHOOSE  POAJLTBY    A1«D   GAME. 

A  TwriBty  Caek.-^U  younig^  he  has  a  smooth  black  leg,  Mkb 
« liiort  spur.  The  eyes  full  and  bright,  if  ftesh,  and  the  fetl 
JHf^  iad  moist  If  atale,  the  eyes  will  be  sunkt  vni  the 
ftetdiry. 

Hnt'Twrkof  is  known  by  the  saaie  niles^  but  if  old,  hsr 
k|i  will  he  led  and  rough. 

(vttK.— The  hill  and  feet  of  a  young  one  will  be  yellow* 
sad  there  will  be  bat  few  hairs  upon]]them ;  if  old,  they  will 
ht  nd;  if  fcesh«  the  fiaet  will  be  pliable ;  if  stale«  dry  and 
stiff.  Geese  are  called  green  till  three  or  four  months  old* 
Gitttt  gsese  should  be  scalded;  a  stubble  goose  should  be 
picked  dry. 

Dttdbu*— Choose  them  by  the  same  rules,  -of  having  supplt 
fat,  and  by  their  being  hard  and  thick  on  the  breast  and  beUy, 
The  feet  of  a  taoM  duck  ave  thaok,  aad  inclining  to  dusky 
yeUow ;  a  wild  one  has  the  feet  reddish,  and  smaller  than  tbi; 
tuae.  They  should  be  picked  diy.  Ducklings  must  bfi 
Rsldcd. 

Pigeoms  shoukl  be  loery  fresh;  wben  they  look  flabby  about 
1W  rtat,  and  this  part  is  discoloured,  they  are  stale.  Thci 
kd  should  be  supple ;  if  old,  the  feet  are  harsh«  The  tame 
sees  ase  larger  than  the  wild,  and  are  thought  best  by  some 
penous.;  they  should  be  fat  and  tender;  but  many  are  deceived 
IB  thor  siae^  becanscA  full  erop  is  as  Ivrfpt  as  .the  whole  body, 
of  a  small  pigeon. 

The  wood<-pige<m  is  large,  and  the  flesh  dark-oolonred;  if 
jmperiy  kept,  and  not  over-roasted«  the  flavour  is  equal  to  teaL 
P/(0«crs. -^Choose  those  that  feel  hard  at  the  vent,  which 
shows  they  are  fat.  In  other  respects^  choose  .them  by  tliof 
fame  marks  as  odier  fowl.  When  stale,  the  feet  are  dry. 
They  will  keep  sweet  a  long  time.  There  are  three  sorts :  the 
grey,  green,  and  bastard  plover  or  lapwing. 

Tke  fufltfrtf.— This  dainty  bird  is  chooai  in  the  same 
wumer  as  the  turkey. 

The  BeMtkcock  and  Hen^  when  joung,  hai«  smooth  legs 
sad  Mils,  which  become  rough  when  old.  You  may  judge  of 
their  freshness  in  the  same  manner  as  y  ju  do  with  the  phea^ 
sent. 


-f0  Daj^C^TIC   COOKlifRY. 

The  Wheat  ear. -This  delicate  bird  in  fpwh,  if  it  hat  a 
limber  foot  and  fat  rump  ;  othen^'ise  it  is  stale. 

The  Woodcock,  if  stale,  will  be  dry-footed  faiid  if  bad,  its 
hose  wiU  be  snotty,  and  the  tiiroat  iho6risb  and  muddy ;  but 
If  new  and  fat,  it  wfll  be  Kmber-fobted/tfaick  and  haisd. 

•  A  Capon  is  known  by  a  ^drt  fttt#  pale  cowb,  a  thick  tmtip 
and  belly,  and  a  fat  vein  on  the  side  of  the  breast :  when  yDtitif . 
Ih^  spurs  win  be  short  and  blnnt,  atid^the  legs  smooth ;  akd  if 
fresh,  the  vent  will  be  close  and  hard ;  bnt  if  sfeiAe,-  iaose", 
which  laiit  remark,  may  be  applied  to  cot^ks  ttkA  liens. 

A  Cook,  when  ;>'oniing,   has  short  anddtiblkd  spu***  ani#  If 
fresh,  his  vem  will  be  hard  and  dose.     Uul  y^u  isbiMiM  lit 
particular  in  observing  the  spurs,  iks  the  hi'asrket  pedplc-  tm^ 
gently  scrape  tlem,  to  glvethem  the  iippearanee of  |f6ui% cocks'. 

A  Hen  is  old,  if  her  legs  and  comb  be  rough ;  hnt  ytang; 
1^  they  are  sinootii,  Vbu  may  also  judge  of  heffreshfte^  by 
the  vent,  in  the  same  nianner  as  the  cock.     ^ '      *    «i      ■  « 

A  Snipe  is  chosen  in  the  same  manner  as  !fie  Woodcock'; 
btti  the  snipe,  when  f*esh,  !s  ftrt  lA'fhe  ^de'un^  the  •'tmttgj 
ted  feels  thick  in  flie  venf.  '  .    ^  .'-./♦  i      . 

Teal  and  Widgeon  are  suppl^footed  when  fresh ;  btft  are 
Ary-footed  when  stale.  ■  If  fat,  tlicy  are  thick  and  Ward  on  the 
Miy ;  am!  Iteft,  If  thin  and  soft. 

tiare and  Levirei. -^Iftht  claw!< afe -blunt  and  ruffged,  the 
ters  dry  and  tough,  and  the  haundi  thick,  ttte  ^lare  is  oH ;  but 
If  the  daws  are  smooth  arid  i^haTp,  the  ears  easily  tear,  and  the 
dd%  in  the  lip  is*  tiot  wuA  spfead,  it  is  N'onng.  •  ff  fresh  dnd 
newly  killed,  the  body  will  be  stiff,  and  the  flesh  pale.  But  ttk^ 
keep  a  good  while  by  proper  rare ;  and  at^  best  wheh  rather 
beginning  to  turn,  if  the  inside  is  preserved"  from*  bein^  musty." 
T*o  know  a  rca!  leveret,  you  shonlrl  look  f«r  a  khob'  or  stnall 
(one  near  the  foot  oh  its  fore  leg ;  if  tfiere  is  none,  it  is  a  hare. 

KXbbit.-^lf  it  be  old,  it  has  long  rough  clawS,  and  grev 
hairs  ftitcrmited' with  its  Wool*;  hut  when  Jounjr,  the  wool  and 
claws  are  smooth.  If  stale,  it  is  supple,  and  the  Iksh  bluish, 
Mth  akind  6f  slime  among  it ;  birt  if  frfesh,  it  will  bo  Miff,  and 
the  flesh  white  and  dry.  * 

Partridges, -^They  arc  in  sensort  in  autumn,  ft*  young, 
the  bill  Is  of  a  dark  colour,  and  the  legs  yellowish  ;  if  fihesh, 
ffae  ^nt  will    b6  firtn  :  this  part  will  look  greenish,  if  stale. 


PkeuMti. — The  cock-bird  is  accounted  best,  except  when 
the  hen  is  with  egg.  If  young,  he  has  short,  blunt,  or  round 
sfHirs;  but  if  old,  they  are  long  and  sharp. 

.  ■       ■  /  4  '  •  '  '   ' 

TO    CHOOSE    BUTTER. 

Put  a  knife  into  the  butter  if  salt,  and  smell  it  when  drawn 
wt ;  if  there  is  any  thing  tascid  or  unpleasant,,  it  is  bad. 
Being  made  at  different  times,  the  layers  in  casks  will  varj[ 
pertly:  and  fou  will  dbt  eisiLy  come  at  thie> goodness,  but  bf 
KBhoDping  the  ensk,  and  trying  it  between  the  stav«b.  FreA 
hMff  onght  to  maiM  kke  a  nosegay,  and  be  of  an-^cinai  «<ikNif 
illlriiigh ;  if  sour  in  sneU,  it  hnsiiot  b^n  si^oieotly  wasii^ 
d;  if  viioy  and  o|>en,  it  in  ^nbMy  mi%^  ^th  staler  or  nnf 


TO.  CBOOM.  CHjfcBSUK. 

OlMerve  the  cont «l  theeheeM^ bttfdire  f ou  potc^Meit ;  Ibr 
if  Jl  fe  ^M/^mMt  a  rongh  aAd  mggtd  cont,  4yr<lry  <at  top,  ^ou 
mtf^Vftti  m§Jkd*\iMe  wnona  mndi  nnt^  id  it.  if  ,h  Ibe  iMiit/ 
ipoigv, «r fdlM holte,  Aere k reano*to taapectit  is  muiggii^v 
Whtnevtr  yon  fieteme  WHy  ptfrMMd  plness  «l  the  oataidey  ftiet 
ntwter  piniie  ^en  «o  the  hottfom ;  -for,  thxwgh  the  bM  in  tkk^ 
cBsl  mi^  be  i>ut  smaU,  iht  porislied'part  within  may  be  tbn- 
>ifaifaln. 

Rot  A0  iMxfe  md  of  Hie  egg  to  your  tonglie;  if  it  iMi' 
vtihsiliinnbVi'  *itt  osw^aidl  «ggd,  the^  is  a  smdl  cKvMon' 
rf  the  skin  Mm  the  AeUj  'wfasah.ia  Med  Midi  air,  aivd  i§  ^^ 
ttptible  to   the   eye   at   the  end.     In   looking  thUM^  tH^M' 
againsttile  rati  «r  a  dindlei  if  iiesh,  eggb  mHH  be  prtliy  cl^r. 
If  IbejrnkalDathey'atenotfir^sb.      :     • 

Eggs  may  be  hqngbt  cheapest  whtntKe  fa«nto  fh«t  biigiiittf 
lay  in  the  spring  before  they  sit;    in    Lent  and  Easter  ttilb^- 
bMooie  4ear«    Thdy'  mfxy  be  pveselvni  Atesh  by  dippAig  tfiem 
in  baling  itat&r  and  instantly  ^  taking  |;h<«i  4»ut,  or  hf  (^H^ ' 
the  tUelfct  nither  nf  whidi  wayh  in  to  pyefv^nt  the  aif>  pA^tff*< 
through  it ;  or  kept  on  shelves  with  small  holes  to  receive  4M(§  ^ 
ioeM,  nasd;  be  tamed  emery  other  day ;  csrcloee^fMiek^  in  a 
keg,  find  faopffixred  yMt^  sCtt>ttg'ifBie«wat(0r .- 


M  m>MBSTlC   CObKBRt. 


OBSERVATIONS  ON  KEEPING  AND  DRESSING 

MEAT. 

f 

ON    KBBPINO   MBAT. 

In  evejry  sort  of  provisions,  the  best  of  the  kind  goes 
fiurdiest,.  it  cuts  out  with  most  advaatege,  uid  affoids  fluost 
Bouriabbaeiit.  Round  of  beef,  fiUet  <^  veal,  and  hg  of  nnt-' 
ton,  are  joints  that  bear  a  higher  price;  hut  as  they  ha^ 
more  solid  meat,  they  deserve  the  prefeeeBce.  It  is  worth 
notice,  however,  that  those  joints  which  are  inftrior,  may. 
be  dressed  as  palatably;  and  being  cheaper,  they  ought  to 
be  bought  in  turn ;  for,  when  they  are  wdghed  vrtth  the  i^iae 
pieces,  it  makes  the  price  of  these  cooie  lower. 

Ill  loins  of  meat,  the  long  pipe  that  runs  bytfaebOBeflhoiiid 
be  taken  dut,  as  it  is  apt  to  taint ;  as  also  the  ktraeb  of  beef. 
Bumps  and  aitch-bones  of  beef  are  often  bruised  by  the  blows 
the  drovers  give  the  beasts,  and  the  part  that  has  been  stra^k 
always  taints ;  therefore  do  not  purchase  these  joints  if  bruised.  - 

The  butcher  should  take  out  the  kemela  in  the  neck 
pieces,  where  the  shoulder-dod  is  taken  off,  two  from  each 
round  of  beef;  one  in  the  middle,  which  is  called  the  pope*s 
eye;  the. other  from  the  flap:  there  is  also  one  in  the  thick 
^j^udi,  in  the  middle  of  the  fat.  If  these  aie  not  takea  out, 
enpecially  in  the  summer,  salt  will  be  of  no  uie  for  keeping  the 
meat  sweet*  There  is  another  kernel  between  the  romp  and 
the  ^gebone. 

As  the  butdwrs  seldom  attend  to  this  matter,  the  cook 
should  take  out  the  kernels ;  and  then  rub  the  salt  wdl  into 
such  beef  as  is  for  boiling,  and  slightly  sprinkle  that  wbidi 
is  for  roasting. 

The  flesh  of  cattle  that  ate  killed  v^en  not  perfectly 
cleared  of  food  soon  spoils.  They  should  fast  twenty-four 
hours  in  winter,  and  double  that  lime  in  summer,  before  being 
killed. 

The  shank-bones  of  mutton  shouhi  be  saved ;  and,  after 
soaking  and  bruising,  may  be  added  to  give  richness  to  gra* 


fc.- .- 


ON    KKEFIKO   AND   DRBftSlN«   MKAT.  » 

vtM  or  soups.    They  aie  also  partkularly  nourishing  to  sick 
pcnoBs. 

\V1ken  sirloins  of  beef,  or  loins  of  veal  or  matton,  come  in, 
psrt  of  the  suet  may  be  cut  off  for  puddings,  or  to  clarify. 

Meat  and  vegetables  that  the  frost  have  touched,  should  be 
tosked  in  cold  water  two  or  three  hours  before  used,  or  mof« 
if  they  are  much  ioed.  Putting  them  into  hot  water,  or  to  th^ 
fire  till  thawed,  makes  it  impossible  for  any  heat  to  dress  them 
prapoly  afterwards. 

In  warm  weather,  meat  should  be  examined  well  when  it 
cones  in ;  and  if  flies  have  touched  it,  the  part  must  he  cut 
of,  and  then  well  washed.  In  the  height  of  summer,  it  is  a 
voy  safe  way  to  let  meat  that  is  to  be  salted  lie  an  hour  m 
npf  oM  water,  rubfaiag  well  any  part  likely  to  have  been 
fiy-bkwn ;  then  wipe  it  quite  dry,  and  have  salt  ready»  and 
nb  it  tboroagkly  in  every  part,  throwing  a  handful  over  it 
betides.  Turn  it  every  day,  and  rub  the  pidde  in,  which  wilt 
■ske  it  ready  for  the  taUe  in  thsee  or  foinr  days.  If  to  be 
iwy  much  corned,  wrap  it  in  a  well-flonrad  cloth,  after  rub- 
Uig  it  with  salt.  This  last  method  will  com  fiesk  beef  fit  for 
tk.taUe  the  day  it  comes  in,  but  it  must  be  put  into  the  pot 
vitta  the  water  boils. 

If  the  weather  permit,  meat  eats  much  better  for  hanging 
t«D  or  three  days  befane  it  is  salted. 

When  beef  or  pork  is -salted  for  imraediato  eating,  the  piece 
dMMid  not  wrigk  more  tfaaa  five  or  six  pounds.  It  must  b^ 
thorooghfy  salted,  jnst  befoee  it  is  pat  into  the  pot,  aiMl  fokM 
ipckMe  in  a -coarse  cloth  well  fioured.  By  bemg  mum  f  mi  in 
UUng  water,  and  boiling  as  long  as  any  other  salt  beef  of  the 
same  size,  it  will  be  as  salt  as  if  done  four  or  five  days.' 

Great  atlentioD  is  requisite  in  salting  meat:  and  in  the 
eoantry,  where  large  quantities  are  ourad,  this  ia  of  particular 
iaportanoe.  Beef  and  pork  sheoM  he  well  sprinkled,  nnd  m 
few  hours  afterwards  hung  to  drain,  before  it  is  rubbed  with 
the  salt ;  which  method,  by  cleansing  the  meat  from  the  bk)od, 
•ervesto  keep  it  from  tasting  strong.  Ushould  be  turned  eveiy^ 
^y;  and  if  wanted  soon,  should  be  nibbed  as  often.  A 
>«lting  tab  or  lead  may  be  used,  and  a  cover  to  fit  ckMO. 
These  who  use  a  good  deal  of  salt  meat  will  find  it  answer 
«dl  to  boil  vp  the  pickle,  skim  it|  and  ^hen  cold,  pour  it  ^orsf 


>- 
• 


/ 


I 


<*)  1>6MBfttlC  tOOKKllV.  '  • 

«Mit  Ihat  has  b«en  spri^kfed  &Ad  drained.  Salt  is  ^  m^c6  iii' 
creased  in  price,  from  the  heavy  duties^  as  to  require  ^reA 
iOM  in  usillf  it  i  aftcJ  the  brine  ought  not  to  be  thrown  away, 
as  is  the  predice  of  some,  afte^  once  using 

•  Vhe  ^Btet  m  trhlch  meat  has  been  boiled  mukes  an  excel- 
kftt  sMp  for  the' poor,  by  adding  to  it  tegctables,  oatmeal,  or 
ptas; 

RottRted  beef  holies,  or  shank^boires  of  Tiart,  mak^  fine 
peas-soap;  and  should  be  boiled  with  the' peas  the  day  before 
^1^,  tWat  the  fkt  ma^  be  taken  oft. 

hi  some  femilies  great  Ibss  is  sustained  by  the  spoiRflg-  of 
IMtiU  Th^  be^t  Way  to  keqy  ithat  is  to  brf  eatcti  unsafted  is; 
tH  Mbre  dk^*t<Kl,  to  <e*aitiiii^  ?t  weR,  wif)^  it  every  day;  iitid 
pitt  MtA^  pi^W  of 'charieoal'oVer  fl.  Tf-  m<$at  isbn^ught  ftoin 
4f  distance  in  wartm  wefttherj  .rtfe  butcher  "^ould  be  ottieredto 
^Vfer'it  elose,  and  bring  it  early  iri  the  morning;  but  even'tfaten, 
ITU  is  kept  Oh  the  roa<f  whil^  he  serves  the  cufvt^mcrs  who  fhe 
tmLfCBt  to  lihn,  it  will  'b«  vefy  likely  to  hk  fly-blo#n.  TItis 
happens^  <)^ett  hi  the  country. 

Wash  all  meat  before  yon  dress  it:*  if  for  boiKiig,  llie 
^ol^ur  will  be  bett^  fbr  soaking ;  but  if  ^r  roastiii^,dry  il 

ON    BOIUNQ* 

The  boiler  and  utensils  skodid  be  kept  dcfieatiily  timxu 

Puithe  mu»  into  eidd  nn^r,  wAd  flour  it^  widL  Ant.  Meat 
Miltcl  qnidL  will  be  hord'p  but  care  mut  be  takes  tktt  m 
laiiag  stow,  it'doca  sot  ^lop^ortbe  meitt  will  be -uiidadiaie* 
if  thft-BlMfli  iikcf^t  ia,  ttteiwnter  will hti  lesacn  oibgIi ;.  tliere*- 
tee  when  ytta  wish  it  to  boil  away,  take  oflT  the  oover  of  the 
soap-pot* 

Partbmlar  ^ara  nuwt  be  taken  tfaut  the  pot  is  wall  aidaUaed 
llii^  noaienft'it  hoib,  otherwise  the  tedaess  moll  be  diap^raed) 
aivirthe-niaaii.  The  more  soaps  or  broth  ase  skimmed,  the 
hotter  and*  deaoer  tkey  Will  be. 

VegeiaUes  should  not  be  dressed  with  the  inaat,  except 
OBRnrots  or  pftsanepa  with  boiled  beef» 

An  to  the  leaftli  of  tikne  laqiitr^  liar  boilmg,  tht  aizf  »of 
thajoiot  mast  direct;  as  alaa  the  regular  though  alow  pxo^ 
gnm^k  makes ;  for  if  the  4oak,  When  tiU:  to  Under  the  oopV  ' 
per  fvbm  bqilihg^qawl:/  iHv  \t  ttDp  fcoia  bqibng  up  alaU^  thw 


6N   KBEPINO   and  <0RBSSIlfO   M^AT.  4t 

wttl  time  will  not  be  ittflicietit,  and  the  meat 'will  be  under* 

Weigh  the  meat ;  and  allow  for  all  solid  joints  a  quarter  of 
an  hour  for  every  pound,  and  some  minutes  (from  ten  to  twenty) 
over,  according  as  the  family  like  it  done. 

In  boiling  veal  some  choose  to  put  in  milk  to  make  it 
wkite ;  but,  in  general,  it  is  preferred  without,  for  if  the  water 
ksppens  to  be  the  least  hard,  it  curdles  the  milk,  and  gives 
the  veal «  brown  yellow  cast,  and  often  hangs  in  lumps  about 
the  piece.  Oatmeal  will  do  the  same ;  but  by  dusting  the  veal, 
aad  putting  it  into  the  water  when  cold,  you  may  prevent  the 
fculness  of  the  water  from  hanging  upon  it.  A  leg  of  veal  of 
twelve  pounds  weight  will  require  three  hours  and  a  half  boil- 
isg :  the  slower  it  boils  the  whiter  and  plumper  it  will  be.  A 
ham  of  twenty  pounds  will  take  four  hours  and  a  half,  and 
others  in  proportion.  A  tongue,  if  dry,  takes  four  hours  slow 
bnlhig,  after  soaking ;  a  tongue  out  of  pickle,  from  two  hours 
aad  a  half  to  three  hours,  or  more  if  very  large ;  it  must  be 
judged  by  feeling  whether  it  is  very  tender. 

A  leg  of  pork,  or  of  lamb,  takes  the  allowance  of  twenty 
nimntes  above  a  quarter  of  an  hour  to  a  pound, 

ON    ROASTING. 

For  roasting,  your  fire  should  be  regulated  according  to  the 
thing  to  be  dressed  :  if  very  little  or  thin,  then  you  should 
have  a  pretty  brisk  fire,  that  it  may  be  done  quickly  and. nice* 
ly ;  if  a  large  joint,  take  care  that  a  large  fire  is  laid  on  to  cake, 
and  kept  constantly  fre.e  from  ashes  at  the  bottom :  and  you 
must  observe  that  the  fire  should  never  be  stirred  more  than 
once  during  the  time  of  roasting,  on  which  occasion  the  meat 
and  spit  should  be  removed  to  a  greater  distance. 

Beef  of  ten  pounds  will  take  above  two  hours  and  a 
half;  twenty  pounds  will  take  three  hours  and  three  quarters, 
A  neck  of  mutton  will  take  an  hour  and  a  half,  if  kept  at  a 
Ipraper  distance.  A  chine  of  pork,  two  hours.  Obser\'e,  that 
in  frosty  weather  al>  kinds  of  meat  require  more  time  in  dress«> 
ittg.  The  meat  should  be  put  at  a  good  distance  from  the  fire, 
tad  brought  giradually  nearer  when  the  inner  part  becomes  hot» 
which  will  prevent  its  being  scorched  while  yet  raw.  Meat 
ihaaVji  be  much  basted ;  and,  when  nearly  4one,  floured  to 

t  Q 


m^U^  H  look '  frothed*  Vei^l  and  mutlon  tluould  h%ve  a  UMe 
paper  put  over  the  fat  to  preserve  it.  If  not  fat  enough  to 
^low  for  basUng»  a  little  gpod  dripping  anawem  as  well  as 

hitler. 

The  cook  should  be  cai!eful  not  to  run  the  spit  through  the 

heat,  p^MTts ;  and.  should  obierve  that  it  be  Well  deaned  before 

and  at  the  time  of  serving,  or  a  black  stab  appears  oa  the 

meat*    In  many  joints  the  spit  will  pass  into  the  bones,  aad 

run  along  them  for  awne  distance,  so  aa  not  to  iiynre  the  prime 

ai  the  meat ;  mid  the  cook  should  have  leaden  skewera  to  Imu- 

lance  it  with ;  for  want  of  which,  ignomnt  servants  are  often 

troubled  at  the  time  of  serving    In  roasting  meal;  it  is  a  very 

lp)od  way  to  put  a  little  salt  and  water  into  the  dri|q»ingv-paii, 

imd  baste  for  a  little  while  with  this,  before  umng  its  own  hi 

on  dripping.    When  dry,  dust  it  with  ikiur^  and  baste  as  usuaL 

Salting  meat  before  it  is  put  to  roast  draws  out  the  gravy :  it 

,  should  only  be.  sprinkled  when  almost  done.    Time,  distance, 

hfurting  often,  and  a  dear  fire  of  a  proper  sise  for  what  is  le- 

quired,  are  the  first   articles  of  a  good  cook's   attention   in 

roa^tifig..    Old  meats  do  not.require  so  much  ditfssing  as  young ; 

not  that  they  are  sooner  done,  Iwt  they  can  be  eaten  with,  the 

gravy  more  in.    A  piece  of  writing-paper  should  be  twisted 

round  the  bone  at  the  knuckle  of  a  leg  or  shoulder  of  lamb, 

mutton,   or  venison,  when  roasted,  befinre  they  are  served. 

The  best  way  to  keep  meat  hot  is  to  take  it  up  when  done, 

though  tiie  company  may  not  be  come ;  set  the  dish  over  a  pan 

of  hoilingL  water,  put  a  deep  cover  over  it  so  as  not  to  touch  the 

meat,  and  then  throw  a  cloth  over  that»    This- way  will  not  dry 

up  tiie  gravy* 

ON   BAKING. 

a 

Baking  is  one  of  the  che^»est,  and  most  convenient  ways  of 
dressing  a  dinner  in  small  families ;  and  it  may  truly  be  said, 
that  the  oven  is  often  the  only  kitchen  a  poor  man  has,  if  he 
wishes  to  eiyoy  a  joint  of  meat  at  h<mie  with  his  family.  It  is 
not  intended  to  deny  the  superior  excellence  of  roastii^ ;  but 
son^e  joints  when  baked  so  nearly  approach  to  ths  same  when 
roasteds  that  they  have  been  earned  to  the  taUe^  and  eaten  as 
such  with  great  satisfactian* 


ON  KBE^iffo  Ahi^  iiumn»o  meat.  m 

Legs  and  loins  of  pork,  legs  of  mutton,  filkts  of  veal,  and 
many  other  joints,  will  bake  to  great  advantage  if  the  meat  be 
good,  that  is,  well  fed)  and  rather  inclined  to  be  fat ;  if  the 
meat  be  poor,  no  baker  can  give  satisfaction. 

Hie  time  each  article  should  take  in  baking  depends  much 
«peD  the  0tete  of  the  oven,  and  the  bak^  is  oonsUtered  a 
sufficient  judge»  If  diey  mte  settt  to  him  in  time,  he  must  be 
very  neglectful,  if  they  are  not  ready  at  the  time  they  are 
'Mlei^.  Thfe  only  thing  to  be  observed  pi^ious  to  this  node 
4teoAtry  is,  to  have  the  pan,  or  whatever  vessel  you  send  yo«r 
ppovifcions  in  to  tiie  oten,  perfectly  dean,  so  that  the  article 
yOH  have  so  CsxtfviAy  prepared,  may  not  be  injured  from  neg' 
feet  in  deliiiiin6»s. 

ON   BROILING   AND   PRYING» 

Bdbre  you  lay  y6iir  meat  on  the  gndiroo,  be  careAtl  tlM 
70ur  fir^  he  very  elear :  the  kind  «f  citfder  termed  coke  makes 
Ae  best  fire  for  broiUtf^.  Let  your  gridiron  be  very  efean^ 
and  Irh^n  heatcfd  by  the  fire,  rub  the  bars  vnA  dean  nmtton 
saec:  Ms  wUI  bolh  prevent  Hie  meat  fnm  being  diseoftonreii, 
and  hinder  it  from  stickbg.  Timi  yonr  meat  qniddy  while 
MiiA;^  and  have  a  dish,  placed  on  a  ehafingdish  of  hot  cods, 
toput  your  meat  in  as  hatwi  it  is  i^sady,  imd  caifry  H  hot  and 
oorered  to  table.  Observe  never  to  baste  any  thing  on  the  grid* 
iron,  because  that  may  be  tttt  means  of  burning  it,  and 
mMkg  ft  4fii^y. 

Be  oareM  altfayft  to  hee^  your  frying-pan  dem,  tod 
SOS  that  ft  Is  prc^lrly  tinned.  Whon  you  Ay  any  sort  if 
M,  fyvt  cfry  Aem  in  a  doth,  and  then  flour  them«  What 
Jim  winh  fried  things  to  look  9»  wdl  as  possible,  do  them 
Mee  over  wiA  egg  and  emmbs.  Bread  that  is  not  state 
MRi(|^  t»  grate  qnke  fine  H/tXI  not  lo6k  well.  Hie  fat  yon  "fry 
ia  must  dways  be  boiling  hbt  the  moment  the  meat,  fidi,  &C4 
are  put  in,  and  kept  so  till  finished :  a  smdl  quantity  never 
fries  wdl.  Butter  is  not  so  good  for  the  purpose,  as  it  is  apt 
io  Irtfrn  and  blacken  fish,  and  make  them  soft.  When  you 
have  filed  your  fidi,  lay  them  in  a  dish  or  hair  sieve  to  drain, 
before  you  send  them  up  to  table. 


44  bOMMTfC  C06Kt|lY< 


BEEF. 

To  $ali  Beef  red:  which  is  extremely  good  to  eat  freoh  from 

the  Pickle,  or  to  hang  to  dry. 

C/HOOSE  a  piece  of  beef  with  as  little  bone  as  you  can,  (the 
flank  is  most  proper,)  sprinkle  it,  and  let  it  drain  a  day ;  thea 
rub  it  with  common  salt,  (to  which  you  may  add  a  little  of  the 
coarsest  sugar,)  saltpetre,  and  bay-salt,  but  only  a  small  pro- 
portion of  the  saltpetre,  and  you  may  add  a  few  grains  of 
cochineal,  all  in  fine  powder.  Rub  the  pickle  every  day  into 
the  meat  for  a  week,  then  only  turn  it :  in  eight  days  it  will  be 
excellent :  in  sixteen,  drain  it  from  the  pickle ;  and  let  it  be 
•moked  at  the  oven-mouth  when  heated  with  wood,  or  send  it 
to  the  baker's.     A  few  days  will  smoke  it. 

It  eats  well,  if  boiled  tender,  with  greens  or  carrots.  If 
to  be  grated  as  Dutch,  then  cut  a  lean  bit,  boil  it  till  extremely 
tender,  and  while  hot  put  it  under  a  press.  When  cold  fold 
it  in  a  sheet  of  paper,  and  it  will  keep  in  a  dry  place  two  or 
three  mcmths,  ready  for  serving  on  bread  and  butter. 

The  Dutch  way  to  salt  Beef* 

Take  a  lean  piece  of  beef;  rub  it  well  with  treacle  or  brown 
Migar,  and  turn  it  often.  In  three  days  wipe  it,  and  salt  it 
with  common  salt  and  saltpetre  beaten  fine ;  rub  these  well  in» 
and  turn  it  every  day  for  a  fortnight.  Roll  it  tight  in  a  coarse 
cloth,  and  press  it  under  a  large  weight ;  hang  it  to  dry  in  a 
WQod-smoke,  but  turn  it .  upside  down  every  day.  When 
boiled  in  pump  water,  and  pressed,  it  will  grate  or  cut  into 
•hivers,  like  Dutch  beef. 

Beef  a-ta-mode. 

Though  what  are  called  a-la*mode  beef-shops  swarm  in  the 
metropolis,  there  is  not  perhaps  one  place  under  that  denomina* 
tion  in  London  where  the  real  beef  a-la-mode  is  sold.  What 
passes  under  this  name  in  England  is  nothing  more  than  the 
coarsest  pieces  of  beef  stewed  into  a  sort  of  seasoned  soap^  not 


It  id  Superior  to  those  of  ox-cheek,  or  leg  of  beef/  aad  fie-* 
qiently  by  no  means  so  good.  The  real  a-la^mode  beef  can 
ooly  be  made  acooiding  to  the  instructions  given  in  this  and  the 
foQowing  receipt. 

The  moet  proper  parts  for  this  purpose  are  a  small  buttock, 
a  kg  of  mutton  piece,  a  clod,  or  part  of  a  large  bullock. 

Cut  into  long  slices  some  fat  bacon,  but  quite  free  from  yel- 
low ;  let  each  bit  be  near  an  inch  thick :  dip  them  into  vinegar, 
and  then  into  a  seasoning  ready  prepared  of  salt,  black  pepper, 
allspice,  and  a  clove,  all  in  fine  powder,  with  parsley,  chives, 
thyme,  savory,  and  knotted  marjoram,  shted  aa  small  as 
possible,  and  well  mixed.  With  a  sharp  knife  make  holes  deep 
enough  to  let  in  the  larding  ;  then  rub  the  beef  over  with  the 
Beasoning,  and  bind  it  up  tight  with  tape.  Set  it  in  a  well- 
thmed  pot  over  a  fire,  or  rather  stove :  three  or  four  onions  mutt 
be  fried  brown,  and  put  to  the  beef,  with  two  or  three  carrots, 
one  turnip,  a  head  or  two  of  celer}%  and  a  small  quantity  of 
water ;  let  it  simmer  gently  ten  or  twelve  hours,  or  till  extreme^ 
h  tender,  turning  the  meat  twice. 

Put  the  gravy  into  a  pan,  remove  the  fat,  keep  the  beef 
covered,  then  put  them  together,  and  add  a  glass  of  port  wine. 
Take  oflT  the  tape,  and  serve  with  the  vegetables  ;  or  you  may 
strain  them  off,  and  send  them  up  cut  into  dice  for  garnish. 
Onions  roasted,  and  then  stewed  with  the  gravy,  are  a  great 
hnprovement.  A  tea-cupful  of  vinegar  should  be  stewed  with 
the  beef. 

Jbeef  a^a-^mode,  another  way* 

Take  about  eleven  pounds  of  the  mouse-buttock,  or  clod 
of  beef,  or  a  Made  bone,  or  the  sticking-piece,  or  the  like 
weight  of  the  breast  of  veal ;  cut  it  into  pieces  of  three  or  four 
mmces  each  ;  put  two  or  three  ounces  of  beef  drippings,  and 
a  couple  of  large  onions,  into  a  large  deep  stew-pan ;  as  socm 
as  it  is  quite  hot,  flour  the  meat,  put  it  into  the  stew-pan,  keep 
stirring  it  with  a  wooden  spoon  :  when  it  has  been  on  abont 
ten  minutes,  dredge  it  with '  flour,  and  keep  doing  so  till  yon 
have  stirred  in  as  much  as  you  think  will  thicken  it,  then  cover 
H  with  boiling  water,  (it  will  take  about  a  gallon)  adding  it 
by  degrees,  and  stirring  it  together ;  skim  it  when  it  boils,  and 
^  pot  in  one  drachm  of  ground  black  pepper,  two  of  all- 


% 


W  DOMESTFC!  COOKBttY. 

Bpke,  uid  iom  hay  kafea :  set  ike  pan  by  the  side  «f  tlie  6m^ 
m  at  a/flifltattiee  ov«r  it,  and  let  k  stew  wtry  nUmfyiox  abwU 
lltfee  4i(Mm ;  ifliea  jon  find  the  neat  safiieien%  "tender^  pot 
it  into  a  tureen,  and  it  is  ready  for  table. 

To  the  above  dish  many  cooks  add  chanpiglions ;  bat  as 
thc^se  are  almost  always  decayed,  aad  ofifcen  of  deletmous  qaa-' 
lity»  they  are  better  left  oat,  and  iidecd  the  bay  leases  de- 
serve the  same  prohibition. 

Beef  a- la- Roy ai. 

Take  all  the  bones  oat  of  a  brisket  of  beef,  and  make  boles 
in  it  about  an  inch  from  each  otibier.  FiU  one  hole  with  fat 
baeofi,  a  see^nd  with  chopped  parsley,  aad  a  third  with  chop-' 
ped  oysters.  Season  these  stuffings  with  pe{q[>er,  salt,  and  nut-« 
«SK«  When  the  beef  is  completely  staffed,  ]put  it  into  a  pan^ 
paMr  upon  it  a  pint  of  wine  boiling  hot,  dredge  it  well  with 
lour,  and  send  it  to  the  oven.  Let  it  remain  there  three  hours^ 
aad  when  it  is  taken  oat,  Aita  off  all  the  lat,  pat  the  meat 
into  your  dish^  and  strain  the  gravy  over  it.  Garnish  with 
pieUes* 

Beef  a-h-^Dauh^  , 

Take  arump  of  beef,  and  cut  out  the  bone>  or  a  part  of 
tbaleg  of  mutton  pieoe,  t»r  the  mouse-buttock  ;  out  some  fat 
bacon  into  slices  as  long  as  the  beef  is  thiek,  and  about  a 
quarter  of  an  inch  square*  Take  four  blades  of  mace^  double 
that  number  of  cloves,  a  little  all-spioe,  and  half  a  nutm^ 
grated  fine.  Chop  a  good  handfiil  of  parsley,  and  some  sweet* 
Heifis  of  all  sorts,  very  fine,  aid  season  with  aak  and  fmffpfx* 
Rttll  th^  baoon  mthese,  and  then  take  a  laige  larding  paa»  ^joA, 
witb  it  thmit  the  baoon  through  the  beef.  Having  dona  tUa^ 
]liit  it  into  «  stew-pan,  with  a  quantity  «f  brown  gravy 
aafieient  to  ^over  it.  Chop  thiee  Uades  of  garlic  veiy  fine, 
sad  put  in  some  fresh  mushrooms,  two  large  onions,  and  a 
dovot.  fitew  it  gently  for  six  iMMirs,  than  take  it  oat,  stsain 
off  the  goavy,  and  Alii  off  the  lit.  Put  your  meat  and  gravy 
infto'theiMn  again,  aid  «dd  to  it  a  gill  of  white  wine;  let  it 
stew  fenlly  tat  half  an  hour  more,  and  then  add  some  artichoke 
battoms,  mords  and  trdHes,  some  oysters,  and  a  spoonfiri  of 
vinegar.  Then  piat  the  meat  into  a  soup  dish,  and  pour  the 
sauce  over  it. 


BMP.  49 

Take  a  aim  fkot-otimB  beef;  lard  it  with  hwam  aeaaon^ 
^  wMi  pepper,  aait;  dbivee,  uaoei  and  albqpioe.  Put  it  into 
a  ateW'pan  withr  a^piat  of  bveth,  a  glaM  of  nhite  wine,  a  bno^ 
die  ef  parsley^  all  afMrtaof  aweet  lierbi^  a  dove  of  gailic,  a 
«halot  or  two,  four  dovea^  pepper  and  aait.  When  the  meat  ia 
beiNane tesdep,  cover  it  eloaa:  akim  the  aanoe  well,  and  alvain 
it:  set  k  on  the  fiie»  and  let  it  boil  till  it  is  mdueed  to  a  glaoe; 
Gkw the  larded-side  with,  thia,  and  sevpe  the  meat  en  sonel- 


Beef  BwiUU,  or  FreA  Be^  BoiktL 

TUa  noiple  biii  most  useful  artide  seems  little  uadentoed 
ia  la^avd,  wm  by  our  best  eeeh^.  Because  the  name  haa 
oiippatjBd  in  France,  though  the  manner  ia  adopted  all  over 
die  oaatinettt,  a  abgular  noticm  has  heae  generally  prevailed^ 
that  beef  bouilliey  literally  meaning  boiled  beef,  is  in  fact  beef 
sever  boiled  at  all ;  but  merely  stewed  down  till  it  parts  with 
il9  eatire  juices^  and  eaten  when  thna  rendered  desAitute  of 
nmskmenty  accompanied  by  the  soup,  wiuch  coataiaa  all  the 
Sooibess  of  the  meat.  This  ia  an  tasqiHxrtant  error,  which  it 
«dl  beoomea  us  caaefiiUy  to  eradicate^  By  a  strange  infiitua^ 
im$  «»  aee  kd  in  this  country,  amid  aU  our  boasted  attach- 
neat  to  the  fleah  of  the  ox^  into  a  ridiadous  idea»  that,bccanse 
BMsted  fteah  beef  and  beiled  satt  beef  am  both  exedknt  food, 
nil  beef  roasted  being  bad,  freah  beef  boiled  Bsaat.  necessarily 
be  bad  also..  Owing  entirely  to  this  fatal. ahanrd^y,  do  onr 
poor,  in  particular,  sustain  an  incalculable  loss  of  the  most 
nooii^ing^  salubrious,  and  least  expensive,  flesh  fbod.  Were 
(besaiallbilS'Of  fipesh  beef,  whieh  thepoevosn  alone  purehase^ 
inrteadof  being  bunt  to  a  eoiden  agridMvan,  ordiied  up  in  an 
svea,  dreased  after  Ae  same  mttinev  as  theHbeef  bouiffie  of 
hiace,  Ilsly,  Germany,  Swed4#-.]>eMnafk>  and  Roasta,  &o« 
tbey  woiddafliMd  faar  Bsore  than^^^Hible  the  nourishment  which 
it  new  comaioikljr  obtained  from  them.  Beef  bouiUie,  we  shall 
taiee  the  liberty  to  deftie,  is  not  satt  boUed  beef ,  but  fresh 
bsif  boiM.  This,  in  Eaglaad  at  least,  ia  a  very  neceasavy 
daimclioa,  and  we  are  desivoos  ibcoibly  to^impfess-it  on  opr 
easstsy,  wheie  we  do  not  wish  ever  to  see  meat  banished 
leetmn  the  richsat  soups,  good  and  sahtasy  aathey  undaubt^ 


48  »OMl|TIC   eOOKBRT. 

edly  are  when  followed  by  a  moderate  portion  of  solid  flesh* 
The  plain  method  of  boiling  fresh  be^f^  called  beef  bouillie,  b 
•imply  this«<-Boil  slowly  the  thick  end  of  a  brisket,  or. any 
other  piece  or  pieces  of  good  fresh  beef,  tying  it  round  with 
packthread,  or  the  pieces  closely  together,  for ,  the  purpose  of 
not  only  securely  keeping  in  the  gravy,  but  occasioning  the 
meat  to  cut  up  firmly,  should  any  of  it  remain  to  be  eaten 
cold.  It  is  to  be  well  covered  with  water,  have  a  moderate 
quantity  of  salt  thrown  in  when  it  begins  to  boil,  be  well  sea- 
soned, and  have  fresh  boiling  water  added  as  the  former  boila 
away.  A  faggot  of  sweet  herbs  may  at  any  time  be  put  in ; 
but  the  carrots,  turnips,  onions,  celery,  or  any  other  vegetables 
made  choice  of,  should  not  be  added  till  within  the  last  hour 
of  the  time  the  whole  is  wanted  to  be  served  up,  when  it  is 
to  be  also  finally  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper,  &c.  The  time, 
of  course,  must  be  proportioned  to  the  magnitude  of  the  meat ; 
which,  however*,  must  .continue  slowly  boiling  till  it  becomes 
quite  tender ;  this,  for  about  six  pounds,  will  not  be  less  than 
three  hours.  When  done,  it  may  be  served  up  in  the  middle 
of  the  soup  and  vegetables ;  or  the  soup  in  a  separate  tureen, 
and  the  meat  in  a  dish  surrounded  with  vegetables,  and  strewed 
over  with  sprigs  of  parsley.  This  beef,  which  is  excellent  hot, 
is-  at  least  equally'  good  cold ;  and,  in  general,  preferred  even 
to  cold  salt  beef  by  almost  all  palates.  It  wants  only  a  fair  trial 
in  England ;  where  the  necessity  of  salted  provisions  for  sea- 
serviee  is  considered  by  foreigners  as  having  in  some  degiea 
vitiated  the  public  taste  with  regard  to  boiled  beef. 

Cold  Beef  bouillie  a-la-Maitre  d'HoteL 

Though  beef  bouillie  may  be  eaten  cold,  either  with  picUes. 
salad,  onions,  horse-radish,  boiled  vegetables,  &c.  or  with 
vinegar  and  mustard  onlys^  short,  exactly  like  other  cold 
boiled  beef;  a  very  favourit^Bfty  of  eating  it,  on  many  parts 
of  the  continent,  is  by  prepSig  it  what  the  French  call  a-la- 
maltre  d^hotel ;  or,  after  the  manner  of  the  master  of  the  hotels 
inn,  or  other  house  of  public  entertainment,  for  his  own  gene- 
ral table.  The  following  is  the  mode  in  which  it  b  thus  served 
up.  The  beef  being  perfectly  cold,  and  it  will  be  by  no  means 
worse  for  having  been  dressed  a  day  or  two  before,  provided 
the  flavour  has  not  been  lowered  with  making  top  large  % 


HEKP. '  49 

^luthy  at  sMlp,  eiit  it  on  a  tresdier,  in  tlioes'^  of  Dcarly  Ktall* 
IB  Im^  thick,  aad  aix>ut  three  fingers  in  breadth,  with  ht  in 
proportion  to  the  lean,  and  lay  on  a  dish  as  mnch  as  may  be 
TttftMl/t  for  tffee  ooeasion :  then  mix  weH  together,  in  a  bMon, 
ehopped  onion  or  thalots,  pepper,  salt,  mnstaid,  egg,  oil, 
▼iiMgtf,  See.  exactly  as  for  a  salad ;  poor  this  mixture  over  the 
beef  bonilie,  and  serve  ii  up  garnished  with  water-cresses  or 
tcraped  horse-radish. 

Beef  Hmm$. 

Cnt  the  leg  of  beef  like  a  ham ;  and  if  the  piece  weigh 
fourteen  pounds,  you  may  mix  a  pound  of  s^t,  a  pound  of 
brown  sugar,  an  ounce  of  saltpetre,  and  an  ounce  oi  bay  salt. 
Pst  tfa^  into  the  meat,  turn  and  baste  it  every  day»  and  let  it 
he  a  month  in  the  pickle.  Then  take  it  out,  roll  it  in  bran, 
end  smoke  it.  Afterwards  hang  it  in  a  dry  place,  and  cut  off 
pieees  to  boil,  or  broil  it  with  poached  eggs. 

To  Miew  a  Rump  of  Beef 

Wash  the  beef  well ;  and  season  it  high  with  pepper,  Cay- 
enne, salt,  albpice,  three  cloves,  and  a  blade  of  mace,  all 
ftKly  po^deied.  Bind  it  up  tight,  and  lay  it  into  a  pot  ^that 
will  just  hold  it.  Fry  three  large  onions  sliced,  aad  put  them 
to  it,  with  three  carrots,  two  turnips,  a  shalot,  four  cloves,  a 
bbdaof  mace,  and  smne  celery.  Cover  the  meat  with  good 
•becf*hrotfa,  or  weak  gravy.  Simmer  it  as  gently  as  possible 
forseveral  hoars,  tili  quite  tender.  Clear  off  the  fiU;  and  add 
to  the  giAvy  half  a  pint  of  port  ;wine,  a  glass  of  vinegar,  and 
^  large  spoonful  of  catsup ;  simmer  half  an  hour,  and  serve  in 
•sdee^idish :  add  half  a  pikit  of  table  beer.  The  herbs  to  be 
^■edsfaonld  be  buniet,  taxragon,.  parskey,  thyme,  basil^  suvovy, 
M^oram,  pennyroyal^  knotte^uurjoram,  and  some  chives  if 
yon  ean  get  them ;  btt  obeerve^B  proportion  the  quantities  to 
the  pungency  of  the  several  so^B  let  there  be  a  good  handiid 
all  together. 

Garnish  with  carrots  and  turnips,  or  pi^es  of  different 
colovTs,  cnt  small,  and  laid  in  litde  heaps  separate ;  chopped 
panley>  dii¥es,  beet-root,  Ste^.  If,  when  done,  the.gra^y  is 
toonn^i  to  ffll  the  dish,  take  only  apart  to  seanon  for  serving; 
but  ^  ites  waler  the  better ;  and  to  laefeMe  the  riohiiei^ 
%  H     . 


r 


$0  t>OMKSTIC   CKKOKERY. 

iddd  a  '£ew  betf  bobes.  and.  sMatkn  of  itonttoa  io  sUnwiin^  .  A 
spooBfnl  or  two  of  nadc  mustttrd  is  a  jpr^  im|Hrove]»epjt  to 
ihe  gravy* 

lliinp  rotttUd  in  ^oelknt :  bitt  :iA  Ihe-^o^fy  it  k  gcvie- 
iaiiy  sold  ndhole  with  the  akofebone»  or  oiut  acvp^^Jifstead  of 
toighthwiaa  as  in  Londkui,  wheve  one  pieoe  is  for  boilipgj  asd 
the  rump  Hevt  stewing  or  toasting.  Tb^  niu|4  be  atlSeoded  tq, 
the  whole  being  too  large  to  dress  together* 

To  stew  a  Rump  if  9^  another  way. 

Let  the  piece  be  paniy  voantMi,  then  Uiy  it  in  a  pot  with 
fbur  pints  of  wtater,  some,  salt,  a  giU  of  vin^ar,  three  feMj^- 
■spoonftds  of  catsup^  a  bunch  of  sweet  heiiK,  onions^  cikMed, 
and  cayenne ;  cover  it  close,  and  let  ft  sinuter  till  tender ; 
when  enough,  lay  it  hi  a  deep  dish  over  liot  water,  and  eorer 
H  dose ;  then  skim  the  gravy  well,  and  add  picklad  aixiahioons 
and  a  spoonful  of  soy,  thiekeii  with  floor  and  tetter,  wanp 
the  whole,  and  pour  jt  over  the  meat^  and  serve  with  force- 
.  meat  balls. 

i  To  hake  a  Rmp  of  9uf. 

OaX  out  the  bone  quite  dean^  then  beat  the  flesh  well 
<with  a  rOHkig-pin,  and  Isard  it  with  i  piede  of  baixNi. 
^Season  yoilr  bacon  with  pepper,  salt,  and  dov^;  and  faud 
'oci'oss  the  meat»  thict  it  may  oot  handsomer.  Season  tiie 
meat  ^wi^  p^pp^,  ^tt,  and  doves ;  put  it  inte  an  ead^n 
'fcA.  Wl^;dli  file  broken  bonea,  half  a  pound  of  buttnr,  aoaw 
ftitiy  leaves,  whole  pepper,  one  or  two  ahaloAs,  and  aome  .Meet 
%erbs.  Let  the  top  o^  the  pan  be  covered  quite  dose,  tften 
^t  it  thto  the  ovOn,  «nd  it  Will  be  doiie  m  about  ats  hoara. 
«Wfa¥n  en6ng1l,'ifiki|R  off  the  fct  dean,  putthe  meat  into  a diab, 
^dd  serve  it  lip-  with  a  gMj^ragout  cif  nuflhioqms^  tnifflca, 
f^itfemeat-bldlS' ted  y^s^Begga.  Let  tixe  gravy  which 
(eo^^&es  from  tH^e^^f  be  acflf,  nieely  seasoned  to  those  tn^^ 
gredients. 

^  To  itew  a  ij^-  of  Be^. 

.  i  With  a  shacfl^  knife  cut  off  all  the  meaty  leaving  the 
gristly  pflht  fitat .  to  the  bone :  si^w  the  bone  into  sevenU 
^■flcuii».  and.  put  thfiil  with  three-^fens  of  wal^r,  six  onionj^, 
four    carrots,  sweet  herbs,   h)rp  leeks,   a  little  allspice^^  salt. 


mt  U^  ^eplNsr,  IaIo  %»  iron  p«t  to  blew  thftr  the  fitt* 
ail  ifl^ :  IS  Ae  moniiiig  skua  off  the  hi,  and  bvrum^ 
«i^  lAtt  neat  inio  nUces^  fry  .it  a  aioe  hro«m  vitfi  a  pait 
if  the  ft^  thu»  duttiaed;  the  remainder  iriU  roakie  good  |^ 
ornflt.  bi  the  aaUMf  pmik  fry  six  Iturge  .oaioiui ;  pat  theaeaiul  the 
^iefti  fff  meat,  together  with  a  quart  of  table*beer,  Into  the  pot 
irilk  the  Uqvor  of  ih^e  boaea,  adding  movt  oaEons,  carrots, 
turnips,  &c. :  let  the  whole  atew  gently  ei^  hoara;  takenip 
the  meat,  and  strain  the  liquor  over  it. 

T0k0keaLegofBeef. 

Cut  the  biaat  off  a  leg  of  beef,  and  break  the  bones^ 
pot  it  iBto  an  earthen  pan,  ulth  two  onions  and  a  baiidle 
of  sweet  herbs,  and  season  it  ^tih  a  spoonful  of  •  whole 
pepper,  and  a  few  cloves  and  blades  of  inace.  Cover  it 
with  water,  and  having  tied  the  pot  down  close  with  brown 
paper,  put  it  into  the  oven  to  bake.  As  soon  as  it  is  enough, 
tike  it  out  and  strain  it  liirough  a  sieve,  and  pick  out  all 
Ae  fat  and  sinews,  putting  them  into  a  saucepan,  with  a 
little  gravy,  and  a  piece  of  butter  rolled'  in  ^our.  Set  the 
saucepan  on  the  fire,  shake  it  often,  4tnd  when  it  is  tho- 
roogfaly  hot,  pour  it  into  the  dish,  and  send  it  to  table.  Ox 
cheek  maj  be  done  in  the  same  manner ;  and  if  you.  should 
ihiok  it  too  strong,  you  may  weaken  it  by  pouring  in  a  sufficient 
quantity  of  hot  water ;  but  cold  water  will  spoil  it. 

To  %M  a  fiimmd  4f  Berf. 

This  shoold  be  carefully  salted,  and  wet  with  the  pidrle 
■for  mij^t  or  ten  days.  Hie  bone  should  be  cut  out  first, 
tnd  the  beef  skewered  and  tied  up  to  make  it  quite  round. 
It  may  be  stuped  witli  parsley,  if  approved ;  in  which  ca^fe 
the  holes  to  admM^  the  parsl^uaust  be  made  with  a  sharp- 
pointed  knife,  and  the  parsley  ^Bsely  cut,  and  stuffed  in,(ight. 
As  soon  as  it  boils  it  should  beilimmed,  and  afterwards  kept 
boiling  very  gently. 

A  R&Mnd  of  BttJ  JuTctd. 

Knb  your  meat  first  with  common  salt,  then  a  fitt|e  bay-salt, 
Bome  salt-petre,  and  coarse  sugar.  Let  it  lay  a  full  we^k  in 
this  pickle,   turning  it  every  day.     On  the  day  it  is  to  be 


b2  DOMESTIC   COOKERY. 

dressed,  wash  and  dry  it,  lard  it  a  little,  and  make  holes,  wfaklr 
fill  with  bread  crumbs,  marrow,  or  suet,  parsley,  grated  tenooK 
peel,  sweet-herbs,  pepper,  salt,  nutmeg,  and  the  yolk  of  nn 
egg,  made  into  stuffing.  Bake  it  with  a  little  water  and  some 
small  beer,  whole  pepper,  and  an  onion.  When  it  comes- front 
the  oven,  skim  the  fat  dean  off,  put  the  meat  into  a  dish, 
and  poor  the  liquor  over  it.  When  cold,  it  makes  a  handsome 
aide*board  dish  for  a  large  company. 

To  roast  Ribs  of  Beef. 

Spit,  and  lay  the  beef  before  a  brisk  iBre,  baste  with  salt 
and  water  twenty  minutes ;  then  dry  and  flour  it,  and  fasten 
seme  clean  buttered  paper  over  the  side  of  the  meat,  and  let  it 
remain  there  till  the  meat  is  enough. 

To  roast  Ribs  of  Beef  stuffed. 

Make  a  stuffing  as  for  fillet  of  veal,  bone  the  beef,  put  the 
stuffing  into  the  middle  of  it,  roll  it  up,  and  bind  it  very  tig^t* 
Let  it  roast  gently  about  two  hours  and  a  half;  or  if  very  thick, 
three  hours  will  do  it  sufficiently.  Ser\e  it  up  with  a  brown 
sauce,  of  either  celery  or  oysters. 

To  stew  a  Brisket  of  Beef 

Rub  the  brisket  with  common  salt  and  saltpetre,  let  it  lay 
four  or  five  days,  then  lard  it  with  fat  bacon,  and  lay  it  in  a 
stew-pan  with  a  quart  of  water,  a  pint  of  strong  beer,  some 
sweet  herbs,  eight  ounces  of  butter,  three  sBalots,  some  grated 
nutmeg  and  pepper,  cover  it  dose,  and  stew  it  over  a  slow 
fire,  for  fi\e  or  six  hours ;  thea  strain  the  liquor,  and  thicken 
with  burnt  butter;  lay  the  beef  in  a  large  dish,  and  pour  it 
over ;  garnish  with  sliced  lemon,  and  then  serve  it  up. 

To  stew  a  Brisket  of  Beef  another  way^ 

Put  the  part  which  has  the  hard  fat  into  a  stew-pot  with  a 
small  quantity  of  water:  let  it  boil  up,  and  then  skim  it  care- 
fully ;  add  carrots,  turnips,  onions,  celery,  and  a  few  pepper- 
corns. Stew  it  extremely  tender ;  then  take  out  the  flat  bones, 
and  remove  all  the  fat  from  the  soup.  £ither  serve  that  and 
the  meat  in  a  tureen ;  or  the  soup  alone,  and  the  meat  on  a 
dish,  garnished  with  some  vegetables.     The  following  sauce  is 


BREF.  W 

feMdi  admtfed»  served  wHh  the  beef  :-^Take  half  a  pint  of  the 
MMp,  and  mm  it  with  a  spoonful  of  caUap,  a  glasa  of  port 
wae,  a  tea-spoonful  of  made  mustard,  a  little  flour,  a  bit  of 
Imtter,  and  salt :  boil  all  together  a  few  minutes,  then  pour  it 
round  the  meat.  Chop  capers,  walnuts,  red  eabbage,  pickled 
cucomben,  and  chives  or  parsley,  small,  and  put  in  separate 
heaps  over  it. 

To  press  Beef. 

Salt  a  bit  of  brisket,  the  thin  part  of  the  flank ,  or  the  tops 
of  the  ribs,  with  salt  and  saltpetre,  five  days ;  then  boil  it  gently 
tiU  extremely  tender :  put  it  under  a  great  weight,  or  in  a 
diecse-press,  till  perfectly  cold. 

It  eats  excellently  cold,   and  for  sandwiches. 

•     « 

To  make  Hunters'  Beef. 
The  genuine  method  of  curing  this  famous  beef,  hitherto 
confined  to  a  few  private  funilies,  chiefly  at  Brighthelmstone^ 
asd  in  the  neighbouring  country,  is  as  follows ; — Take  a  fine 
louid  of  beef,  of  about  twenty-five  pounds  weight,  for  exam- 
ple; let  it  lie  in  spring-water  two  hours;  then  drain  it,  and 
rub  in  well  two  or  three  ounces  of  saltpetre,  according  as  Uie 
nlting  may  be  required.     It  is  thus  to  remain   twenty-four 
hoars;  during  which  period,  the  saltpetre  must  be  three  or  four 
times  well  nibbed  in.    Then  add  a  pound  of  common  salt ; 
a  tittk  moie,  or  less,  aa  the  degree  of  saltness  may  be  desired : 
this,  also,  is  to  be  well  rubbed  in  thiee  or  four  times  durinf^. 
the  next  twenty*lbur  hours ;  after  which  are  to  be  added,  a 
4|iiaiter  of  a  pound  of  ground  allspice,  two  ounces  of  ground 
white  pqvper,  and  one  ounce  of  finely  powdered  long  pepper, 
hi  the  brine  thus  made,  let  the  berf  remain  ten  days;  rub- 
bing it  well  twice  a  day  during  that  time,  and  turning  it  once 
daily.  -  It  is  tfa^n  to  be  taken  out,  washed  in  spring  water,  and 
piand  on  a  stand,  in  a  deep  pan,;  large  enough  to  contain  the 
beef,  with  a  space  of  about  two  inches  left  all  round.     In  this 
pan  must  be  poured  about  two  quarts  of  water,  to  cover  the 
bottom  to  some  depth.     A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  beef  suet, 
chopped  very  small;  is  next  to  be  strewed  over  the  top  of  the 
beef,  which  riiould  rather  be  under  the  level  of  the  brim  of  the 
pas ;  then  make  a  thin  crust  of  flour  and  water  to  cover  the 


M  DOMESTIC   COO>KBRY. 

put,  jRit  it  istb  an  e^n  ivot  tfHougfa  for  bread,  anil  tNike  it  fair' 
kooiB.  When  taken  from  tite  oven,  and  the  oru«it  ttmoimfA, 
pour  over  Mwe  of  thft  li<}aor  m  which  it  ivas  baked,  td  ofeny 
<li'  ^  sfdde,  'pepper,  and  duet.  Then  put  it  by  «iil  cold,  nAeti 
ifc  may  foe  served  op.  The  iiquor  should  be  earelalty  s«V8d, 
as  it  lyili  be  fbiind-  an  enoellctnt  sufostitnte  for  gravy  in  made 
dishes,  and  will  keep  a  great  length  of  time.  The  ^icklci  fi41l 
also  serve  for  tongues,  ^c.  Before  piitting  this  beef  into  the 
oven,  it  should  be  tied  tightly  round  with  tape  or  packthread, 
to  preserve  its  form. 

Ah  e^ceUeni  nukde  of  dfeuing  Bte/'. 

Hang  three  ribs  three  or  four  days;  take  out'^e  bonea 
from  the  whole>  length,  sprinkle  the  meat  with  salt,  roll  it 
tight,  and  roast  it.  Nothing  can  look  nicer.  The  above  done 
with  spices,  &c.  and  baked  as  hunters'  beef,  is  excellent. 

Anhe  umy  of  dremng  mmdardame  Beif» 
Chop  the  meat  small,  with  some  salt,  pepper,  and  oniona, 
to  wtiidi  add   some  rich  gravy;  widi  this  mixture  fiM  some 
sanoers  or  moulds  three  parts  full,  and  fill  them  up  with  well 
mashed  potatoes.     Brown  them  before  the  fire. 

* 

To  collar  Beef. 

,  €h«Me  the  thin  end  of  the  fiaak  of  fine  meliiMr  barf,  Imt 
not  too  iai ;  lay  it  into  a  dish  with  salt  and  Hdtpetre»  turn  and 
i^  it  every  day  for  a  week,  and  keepiteool.  Thea  take  .out. 
eveiy  bone  and  gnatk,  remove  the  akin  of  the  imnde  part,  and- 
^ovc*  it  thick  with  the  following  seasoning  cut  small  i  a  lai|^ 
faandfai  of  parley,  the  same  of  sage,  some  d^aie,  mmjotaniy 
and  pennyroyal,  pepper,  and  allspioe.  Roll  tiie  meat  up 
aatighA  as  possible,  and  bind  it;  then  boil  it  gently  foraewn 
^  eight  faouis.  A  dodi  must  be  put  round  bcfoie  the  tape. 
Pat  the  beef  nnder  a  good  weight  while  hot,  without  nndoing 
it :  the  shape  will  then  be  oved.  Part  of  abreast  of  veal  rolled 
in  with  the  beef,  looka  and  eats  very  well. 

.  CoUatJkf  Buf  toasted. 
Take  out  the  inside  meat  from  a  suloin  of  fa^ief,  sprinkle  at 
with  vinegar,  .and  let  it  hang  till  the  next  day •    iPrq>aDe  % 
stuffing  as  for  hare,  put  this  at  one  end  of  the  meat,  roll  the 


»KBP. 


ten  DiOMlilb  bkld  H  v4ry  tiote,  aad  toa^l  it  g&itf y  for  aii  bwr 
•ad  dnse ^(«ijrten»  or  «  litUeHMre  ov  lesa^  pi»|H>rtioiiBd  to  tbt 
Ihkknow.  Senre  it  ap  witit  gravy  the  sme  «8  for  iwr^,  and 
with  OBimitjeUy. 

To  ^ot7  Beef 'Steaks. 

It  is  remarkable,  that  this  very  commoa  artide  of  wl^ole-^ 
some  British  food,  and  which  every  persoo  is  suppo^  capaUk 
of  dressmg,  is  neverthelescf  seldom  served  up  in  any  degree  of 
perfection.  The  following  instructions,  it  is  presumed,  will 
in  future  prevent  liie  ^nerftl'  veproacb  of  what  may  be  de- 
Btaibaled  simple  -cookery,  so  far  as  rdatea  to  a  beef-steak. 
Fioai  a  Aie  ox  rump^  let  eaob.  rt»ak  be  out  three^quattos  of 
sa  iach  thick.  Be  careful  the  fire  is  very  dear,  and  the  grid* 
tma  perfectly  clean.  When  the  gridiron  is  hot,  lay  on  the 
9tcab,  and  broil  them  tiU  they  just  begin  to  brown,  aeawMd 
with  a  little  pepper  and  salt.  Then  turn  them ;  and,  when 
the  other  side  is  brown,  but  not  mote  than  half  done^  lay 
them  on  a  hot  dish  before  the  fire,  with  a  slice  of  butter  be- 
tween every  two  steaks,  and  a  little  more  seasbning  of  pepper 
aal  teh.  Let  thenk  nsmian  in  this  state  two  or  three  minutes ; 
and,  aundng  or  shredding  a  shalot  as  fine  as  possible,  add 
two  tpoonfiil  of  good  gravy,  with  a  little  ciltsup.  Put  the 
ste^  again  oa  the  fire,  after  having  drained  them  of  tbeif 
Snty,  and  keep  tutning  them  till  they  are  sufficiently  done. 
Place  them,  then  on 'the  diiAi,  add  the  gravy  i^h  the  shalot, 
Ik.  t»  them,  garvMi  with  horse-radish  finely  scraped,  and 
serve  them  up  as  hot  as  possible.  Where  the  taste  of  shalots 
or  catsup  is  not  approved,  either  or  both  may  be  omitted. 

The  MnflM>ii  w^  of  frying  Betf-SUakt. 

Fry  yoar  steaks  in  butter  a  good  brown ;  then  put  in  ha}f 
t  pint  of  watar,  an  onion  sltood,  a  spoonful  of  wvdnut  catsup; 
afitde  caper  liqaor,  pepper,  and  salt ;  cover  them  close  witfa 
a  dish,,  and  let  them  stew  gently;  when,  they  are  enough/ 
thicken  the  gravy  with  flour  and  butter,  and  serve  them  up. 

To  fry  Beef'Sieahi  mhoiker  way. 
Cut  yoar  steaks  about  half  an  inch  tbii^k ;  putthem  into  a 
iie«4pia,  witli  a^ood  lump  of  b.ntt«r;  4et  them^over  a  v«ry 


U  DOMESTIC   COOKERY. 

•low  fire ;  keep  turning  them  till  the  butter  is  beooiae  u  thick 
white  gravy;  pour  it  into  a  buain,  and  poar  more  batter  to 
titem ;  when  they  are  almost  enough^  pour  all  the  gravy  iato 
your  basin,  and  put  more  butter  into  your  •  pan ;  fry  them  a 
light  brown  over  a  quick  fire ;  take  them  out  of  the  pan ;  put 
them  in  a  hot  pewtei^  dish  ;  slice  a  shalot  among  them ;  put  a 
little  in  your  gravy  that  was  drawn  from  them,  and  pour  it 
hot  upon  them:  this  is  a  very  good  way  of  dressing  beef- 
steaks.    Half  a  pound  of  butter  will  dress  a  large  dish. 

Beef'Steaks  and  OntoiM. 

The  steaks  for  this  purpose  should  be  fried,  and  nicely 
seasoned  with  pepper  and  salt :  when  the  steaks  are  done,  dien 
put  in  the  sliced  onions,  and  fry  them  a  nice  brown ;  put  the 
•teaks  on  the  dish,  and  the  onions  over  them ;  put  a^little  mush- 
room catsup  and  a  little  gravy  in  the  frying-pan;  first  put  a 
Utile  dust  of  fiour  sufficient  to  make  it  thick ;  let  it  boil  about 
one  minute,  and  pour  it  over  the  steaks. 

Beef' Steaks  and  Oyster  Sauce. 

.  .  Strain  off  the  liquor  from  the  oysters,  and  throw  them 
into  cold  water  to  take  off  the  grit,  while  you  simmer  the 
liquor  with  a  bit  of  mace  and  lemon  peel ;  then  put  the  oyslew 
in,  stew  them  a  few  minutes,  and  a  little  er^iam  if  you  have  it, 
and  some  butter  rubbed  in  a  bit  of  flour ;  let  them  boil  uponoe; 
and  have  rump-ste«J(s,  well  seasolied  and  breiled,  ready  for 
throwing  the  oyster-sauoe  over,  the  ownient .  you  ace .  (o 
serve. 

Staffordshire  Beef* Steaks. 

Beat  them  out  a  little  with  «  roHing-pin,  flour,  and  season ; 
then  fry  with.sliqed  cmion  of  a  light  brown;  lay  the  steaks  Into 
a  stew-pan,  a^d  pour  as  much  boiling  water  over  them  as  will 
serve  for  sauce ;.  stew  them  very  gently  half  an  hour,  and  add 
a  spoonfuLof  catsup,  or  walnut-liquor,  befoii^9g|||^||n:e. 

■ 

Italian  Beef-Steaks. 

Cut  a  fine  laige  steak  fiK>m  a  romp  that  has  been  well  hung, 
or  it  will  do  firom  ^ny  tender  part :  beat  it,  and  season  with 
pepper,  salt,  and  onion ;  lay  it  in  an  iron  stew-pan  that  has  a 
cover  to  fit  quite  dose,   and  set   it  by  the  side  of  the  fiie 


tidiout  water.  Take  care  it  doea  not  bum,  but  it  uust'have 
a  strong  beat ;  in  two  or  three  hoars  it  will  be  quite  tender, 
and  then  serve  with  its  own  gravy. 

To  stew  Be^-SteahiB. 

m 

Half  broil  them,  and  lay  them  in  a  stew-pan,  season  agree- 
able  to  taste,  add  enough  of  strong  gravy  to  cover  them,  and 
a  bit  of  butter  rolled  in  floury  let  them  stew  half  an  hour,  then 
tkrow  in  the  beaten  yolks  oi  two  egg8>  and  stir  the  whole  ten' 
minutes;  then  serve  it  ufif. 

i 

Beef'SieaJfs  rolled: 

Take  the  steaks,  and  after  beatbg  them  to  make  them; 
tender,  pot  upon  them  any  quantity  of  high'*seasohed  force- 
meat, then  roll  them  up,  and  secure  their  form  tgr  skewering. 
Fry  them  in  mutton  drippings,  till  they  become  of  adeUcate. 
brown,  when  they  should  be  taken  from  the  fat  in  which  they 
^d  been  fried,  and  put  into  a  stew-pan,  with  some  good 
r^vy,  a  spoonful  of  red  wine,  and  some  catsup.  Wlien 
sufficiently  stewed,  serve  them  up  with  the  gravy  and  a  few' 
pickled  mushrooms. 

Beef  CoUops. 

Take  a  large  rump  steak,  or  any  piece  of  beef  that  is  tender, 
and  cut  it  into  pieces  pf  the  size  and  thickn^  of  a  crown 
piece,  or  larger.  Hack  them  a  little  with  a  knife,  then  flour 
them,  and  having  melted  a  little  butter  in  your  stew-pan,  put 
in  yoor  oollops,  and  fry  tbem  quick  f<^  about  two  tniniites. 
Then  put  in  'a  pint  of  gravy,  a  bit  of  butter  rolled  in  ilour, 
ttd  seasflb  it  with  pepper  and  salt.  Cut  fouir  pickled  cneum*' 
bees  into  thin  slices,  a  few  capers,  half  a  walnut,  >and  a  little 
snion  shred  fine.  Put  these  into  the  pan,  and  having  stowed 
the  whole  together  about  five  minutes,  put  them  all  hot  wi» 
yoor  dish,  and^Bond  them  to  table  garnished  with,  lemon. . 

Bfef  Palates. 

Simmer  theifi  in  water  several  hours.,  till  they  IriU  peel; 
then  cut  the  palates  into  slices,  pr  leave  them  whole,  as  yoa 
choose;  and  stew  them  in  a  rich  gravy  till  as  tender  as  poa^ 
sible.    Before  you  serve,  season  them  with  cayenne,  salt,  and 


5$  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

catoup.    If  the  glraTj  was  drawn  clear,  add  also  some  buttar 
and  floor. 

If  to  be  served  white,  boil  them  in  milk,  and  ^tew  them  in . 
a  fricassee-saace  ;  adding  cream^  butter,  flour,  and  mushroom- 
powder,  and  a  little  pounded  mace. 

To  roast  a  Sirloin  of  Beef  witk  the  Inside  minced. 
When  the  beef  is  about  three  parts  roasted,  uke  out  the . 
meat  fnmi  the  under  side,  mince  it  nicely^  season  it  with  pepper 
and  salt,  and  some  shalot  chopped  very  small.  Against  the 
beef  is  done  enough,  heat  this  with  gravy  just  suffiqient  to 
moisten  it.  Dish  up  the  beef  with  the  upper  side  downwards, 
put  the  mince  in  the  inside,  strew  it  with  bread-crumbs  ready 
prepared,  have  a  salamander  hot  to  brown  them  over  of  a  fine 
colour,  and  then  serve  up  the  beef  with  scraped  horseradish 
laid  round  it. 

To  dress  the  Inside  of  a  cold  Sirloin  of  Beef. 

Cut  out  all  the  meat,  and  a  little  fat,  into  pieces  as  thick  as 
your  finger,  and  two  inches  long :  dredge  it  with  flour :  and 
fry  in  butter,  of  a  nice  brown:  drain  the  butter  from  the  meat, 
and  toss  it  up  in  a  rich  gravy,  seasoned  with  pepper,  salt, 
anchovy,  and  shalot.  Do  not  let  it  boil  on  any  account.  Be- 
fore  you  serve  add  two  spoonful  of  vinegar.  Garnish  with 
crimpled  parsley. 

Another  ufay. 

Roast  a  sirloin  of  beef,  and  when  it  is  done,  take  it  off  the 
spit,  carefully  raise  the  skin,  and  draw  it  off.  Then  cut  out 
the  lean  part  of  the  beef,  but  observe  not  to  touch  either  the 
ends  or  sides.  Hash  the  meat  in  the  following  manner :  cut  it 
into  pieces  about  the  size  of  a  crown  piece,  put  half  a  pint 
of  gravy  into  a  stew-pan,  an  onion  chopped  fine,  two  ^xx>n« 
ful  of  catsup,  some  pepper  and  salt,  six  small  pickled  cucum- 
bers cut  in  thin  slices,  and  the  gravy  that  comes  from  the  beef 
with  a  little  butter  rolled  in  flour.  Put  in  the  meat,  and  shake 
it  up  for  five  minutes.  Then  put  it  on  the  sirloins,  draw  the 
skin  carefully  over,  and  send  it  to  table.  Garnish  with  lemon 
and  pickles. 


BBBP.  ^ 

The  Inride  of  a  Sirhin  0/  Beef  farced. 

Lift  pp  the  fat  o£  the  inside,  cat  out  the  meat  quite  dose 

to  the  bone,  and  chop  it  small.     Take  a  pound  of  suet,  and 

.chop  that  small;  then  put  to  them  some  crumbs  of  bread, 

a  little  lemon  peel,  thyme,  pepper,  and  salt,  half  a  nutmeg 

grated,  and  two  shalots  chopped  6ne.     Mix  all  together  with  a 

'gUn  of  red  wine,  and  then  put  the  meat  into  the  place  you 

took  it  from ;  cover  it  with  the  skin  and  fat,  skewer  it  down 

irith  fine  skewers,  and  cover  it  with  paper.     The  paper  must 

not  be  taken  off  till  the  meat  is  put  en  the  dish,  and  your  meat 

'must  be  spitted  before  you  take  out  the  inside.    Just  before  the 

meat  is  done,  take  a-  quarter  of  a  pint  of  red  wine,  and  two 

shalots  shred  small,  boil  them,  and  pour  it  into  the  dish,  vith 

the  gravy  that  comes  from  the  meat.     Send  it  hot  to  table,  and 

garnish  with  lemon. 

The  inside  of  a  rump  of  beef  forced  must  be  done  nearly 
in  the  same  manner,  only  lift  up  the  outside  skin,  take  the 
middle  of  the  meat,  and  proceed  as  before  directed.  Put  it 
into  the  same  place,  and  skewer  it  down  close. 

Beef  Kidneys* 

Cut  them  in  thin  slices,  and  set  them  over  the  fire,  with  a 
bit  of  butter,  salt,  pepper,  parsley,  onions,  and  a  small  clove 
of  garlic ;  the  whole  shred  small :  when  done,  take  them  off 
the  fire,  but  do  not  let  them  lie  long,  as  they  will  become 
tough.    Add  a  few  drops  of  vinegar  and  a  little  cullis. 

Hung  Beef 

Hang  your  beef  till  it  begins  to  turn,  Aen  wipe  it  with  • 
dean  cloth,  and  salt  it  with  a  pound  of  bay  salt,  a  quarter  of 
a  pound  of  saltpetre,  and  half  a  pound  of  coarse  sugar ;  let  it 
remain  six  weeks  in  this  pickle,  observing  to  turn  it  every  day; 
then  dry  it. 

Frieaeoee  of  cold  Rotut  Beef 

Cut  Che  beef  into  very  thin  slices,  shred  a  handful  of 
parsley  very  small,  cut  an  onion  into  quarters,  and  put  all 
together  into  a  stew*pan,  with  a  piece  of  butter  and  some 
strong  broth :  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  simmer  very 
gently  a  quarter  of  an  hour;  then  mix  into  it  the  yolks  of  two 


dd  DOMBSTCO  C0OKERY. 

eggs,  a  glate  of  port  wine,,  .abd  a  spoonful  of  Vinegar ;  stir 
it  quick,  rub  the  dish  with  ahalot,  and  turn  the  fricaaaee 
into  it.         , 

To  dress  cold  Beef  that  has  not  been  done  enough,  calk4  Beef 

Olives. 

Cut  slices  half  an  inch  thick,  and  four  inches  square ;  lay 
on  them  a  forcemeat  of  crumbs  of  bread,  shalot,  a  little  suet^ 
or  fat,  pepper,  •  and  salt.  Roll  them,  and  fasten  with  m  small 
skewer :  pot  them  into  a  stew-pan  with  some  gravy  made  of 
the  l^f  bones,  or  the  gravy  of  the  meat,  and  a  spoonful  or 
two  of  water,  and  stew  them  till  tender.     Fresh  meat  will  do. 

To  dress  the  same,  called  Sanders, 

Mince  beef  or  muaon  small,  with  onion,  pepper,  and 
salt;  add  a  little. gravy,  put  it  into  scallop>shells,  or  saucers, 
making  them  three  parts  full,  and  fill  them  up  with  potatoes^ 
mashed  with  a  little  cream;  put  a  bit  of  butter  on  the  top, 
and  brown  them  in  an  oven,  or  before  the  fire,  or  with  a  sala- 
mander. 

To  dress  the  same,  called  Cecils.. 
Mince  any  kind  of  meat,  crumbs  of  bread,  a  good  deal  of 
onion,  some  anchovies,  lemon  peel,  salt,  nutmeg,  chopped 
parsley,  pepper,  and  a  bit  of  butter  warm,  and  mix  these 
over  a  fire  for  a  few  minutes ;  when  cool  eoouffh,  make  them 
up  into  balls  of  the  size  and  shape  of  a  turkey's  egg,  with  an 
egg ;  sprinkle  them  with  fin6  crumbs,  and  then  fry  them  of  a 
•yellow  brown,  and  serve  with  gravjr  a^  before  directed  for  beef«* 
olives* 

To  pot  Beef. 

Take  four  pounds  of  beef,  free  from  skin,  or  sinews, 
and  rub  it  over  with  a  composition  of  sugar,  salt,  and  salt- 
petre, about  half  an  ounce  of  each  to  the  quantity  of  beef. 
In  that  stBte,  let  it  He  for  twenty-four  or  forty-eijght  hours, 
turning  it  over  three  or  four  times.  Then  put  it  into  an  oven 
with  a  little  chopped  suet,  and  aboot  half  a  pint  of  water. 
When  sufficiently  stewed,  drain  the  fiit  and  grsry  from  the 
meat,  and  pound  it  in  a  marble  mortar  till  it  bectnn^  perfectly 


ADOoth,  adding  to  it  loiiie  Ci3i^ifek  White  pepper^  salt,  a  little 
founded  maoe^  a  little  of  the  dear  gravy,,  and  about  half  a 
poand  of  butter  melted  to  an  oil,  and  added  gradually  during 
the  beating.  When  reduced  to  an  uniform  and  smooth  con« 
nstcnoe^  put  it  into  pots,  and  covrr  with  meked  butter.*— When 
the.sroiBadi  requires  solid  animal  food,  .and  is  deprived  of  the 
inistance  of  mastication,  this  kind  of  potted   meat  may  be 

as  being  restorative,  and  easy  of  digestion. 


.>  I  H ) It u^ t  t  r ^  i 


To  pot  Beef  another  way. 

Take  two  pounds  of  lean  beef,  rub  it  with  saltpetre,  and 
let  it  lie  one  night ;  theoi  salt  with  common  salt,  and  cover  it 
with  water  four  days  in  a  woall  pan. .  J^ty  it  with  a  cloth,  and 
seam  with  black  pepper ;  lay  it  into  as  small  a  pan  as  will 
hold  it,  cover  it  with  coarse  paste,  and  bake  it  five  hours  in  a 
very  oool  oven.     Put  no  liquor  in. 

When  cold,  pick  out  the  strings  and  fat;  beat  the  meat 
Toy  fine  with  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  fine  bueter  just  warm, 
hot  not  oiled,  and  as  much  of  the  gravy  as  will  make  it  into  a 
piste :  put  it  into  very  small  pots,  and  cover  them  with  melted 
batter. 

To  pot  Beef  another  way. 

Take  beef  that  has  been  dressed,  eitlier  boiled  or.  roasted  ; 
beat  it  in  a  mortar  with  some  pepper,  salt,  a  few  cloves,  grated 
nutmeg,  and  a  little  fine  butter  just  warm. 

This  eats  as  well  as  the  former,  but  the  colour  is  not 
so  fine.  It  is  a  good  way  for  naiikg  the  remains  of  a  large 
joint 

To  mince  Beef. 

Shred  the  underdone  part  fine,  with  some  of  the  fat ;  put 
it  into  a  small  stew-pan,  with  some  onion  or  shalot»  (a  very 
little  will  do,)  a  little  water,  pepper,  and  salt:  boil  it  till  the 
onion  is  quite  soft .  then  put  some  of  the  gravy  of  the  meat  to 
it,  and  the  mince.  You  must  not  let  it  boil.  Have  a  small, 
hot  dish  with  sippets  of  bread  ready,  and  pour  the  mince 
uito  It,  but  first  mix  a  lar^e  spoonful  of  vinegar  with  it :  if 
*halot-vinegar  is  used,  there  will  be  no  need  of  the  onion  nor 
the  raw  sfaalot. 


03  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

To  hash  Beef. 

Do  it  the  same  as  in  the  last  receipt ;  only  the  meat  is  to  be 
in  slices,  and  you  may  add  a  spoonful  of  walnut  liquor  or  catsup. 

No  meat  that  is  hashed  should  boil  more  than  a  minute, 
for  it  is  owing  to  boiling  hashes  or  minces^  that  they  get  hard. 
All  sorts  of  8tews^  or  meat  dressed  a  second  time,  should  be 
only  simmered ;  and  this  last  only  hot  through. 

Haeked  Buf  and  broiled  Bones. 
Take  roast  beef  left  from  a  former  dinner ;  cut  the  meat  in 
as  neat  pieces  as  the  beef  will  admit ;  the  bones  that  are  intend* 
ed  for  broiling  should  be  cut  short,  so  as  to  look  neat  on  the 
dish;  and  likewise  they  should  not  be  stripped  very  bare  of 
the  meat ;  score  them,  then  pepper  and  salt  them,  and  brou 
them  over  a  clear  fire ;  put  the  trimming  of  the  bones  and  meat 
into  a  stew-pan  or  sauce-pan^  with  two  onions  and  a  pint  of 
water  ;  set  it  on  to  boil  slow  for  an  hour ;  be  carefiil  not  to  let 
it  boil  fast ;  when  boiled  enough  strain  it  into  a  basm;  then 
put  about  half  a  spoonful  of  flour  over  the  meat  with  a  dredg- 
ing-box,  then  put  the  meat  into  a  stew-pan,  and  pour  in  the 
liquor  the  bones  were  boiled  in,  and  toss  it  up  by  way  ot 
mixing  the  flour  and  liquor :  set  it  on  the  stove  just  to  boil 
sufficiently  to  take  the  rawness  of  the  flour  off;  put  in  about  a 
table-spoonful  of  walnut,  and  the  same  of  mushroom  catsup; 
cut  two  gerkins  in,  and  season  it  with  a  little  pepper  and  salt; 
put  the  hash  on  the  dish  first,  and  the  bones  on  the  hash. 


Beef. 

Take  a  brisket  of  beef,  and  afWr  mixing  half  a  pound  of 
coarse  sugar^  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  saltpetre,  two  ounces 
of  bay  salt,  and  a  pound  of  common  salt,  rub  the  mixture 
well  into  the  beef;  then  put  it  into  an  earthen  pan,  and  turn 
it  every  day.  Let  the  meat  remain  in  this  pickle  for  the  space 
of  a  fortnight,*  when  it  may  be  boiled  and  sent  up  to  the  table 
with  savoys,  or  other  greens.  When  cold  and  cut  into  slices, 
It  eats  well  with  poivrade  sauce. 

Trembling  Beef. 
Take  a  brisket  of  beef,  and  boil  it  gently  for  the  space 
of  five  or  six  hours,  or  till  made  very  tender.    Season  uie 


inter  widi  salt,  some  allspice,  two  onuMit,  two  tamipSy  ahd 
one  currot.  Put  a  piece  of  butter  into  a  stew  pan,  and 
when  melted,  put  in  two  spoonsful  of  flour,  taking  care 
to  keep  it  stirring  till  it  become  quite  smooth.  Then  put  in  a 
quart  of  gravy,  a  spoonful  of  catsup,  some  turnips  and  carrots 
cut  into  small  pieces.  Stew  till  the  roots  are  become  tender, 
and  season  with  pepper  and  salt  Skim  off  the  fat,  and  when 
the  beef  k  put  into  the  dish,  pour  the  sauce  over  it. 

Red  Beef  far  Slices. 

Take  a  piece  of  thin  flank  of  beef,  and  cut  off  the  skin ; 
thai  rub  it  well  with  a  mixture  made  with  two  pounds  of 
oommon  salt,  two  ounces  of  bay  salt,  two  ounces  of  saltpetre, 
and  half  a  pound  of  moist  sugar,  pounded  in  a  marble 
mortar.  Put  it  into  an  earthen  pan,  and  turn  and  rub  it 
every  day  for  seven  or  eight  days ;  then  take  it  out  of  the 
brine,  wipe  it,  strew  over  it  pounded  mace,  cloves,  pepper, 
s  little  allspice,  and  plenty  of  chopped  parsley,  and  a  few 
iblots.  Then  roll  it  up,  biqd  it  round  with  a  tape,  boil  it  till 
tender,  press  it,  and  when  it  is  cold  cut  it  into  slices,  and  gar* 
lUBh  it  with  pickled  barberries,  fresh  parsley,  <Hrany  other  gar** 
niah,  as  approved. 

RolUd  Buf  that  equals  Hare. 

Take  the  inside  of  a  large  sirloin,  soak  it  in  a  glass  of  port 
wine,  and  a  glass  of  vinegar  .mixed,  for  forty-eight  hours ;  have 
ready  a  very  fine  stuffing,  ,and  bind  it  up  tight  Roast  it  on  a 
lisnging-spit ;  and  baste  it  with  a  glass  of  port  wine,  the  same 
quantity  of  vinegar,  and  a  tea-spoonful  of  pounded  alls{Hce« 
Larding  it  improves  the  look  and  flavour:  serve  with  a 
rich  gravy  in  the  dish;  currant- jelly  and  melted  butter,  in 
tureens. 

To  make  a  Porcupine  of  the  flat  Ribs  of  Beef. 

Bone  the  flat  ribs,  and  beat  it  half  an  hour  with  a  paste- pin  ; 
thea  rub  it  over  with  the  yolks  of  eggs ;  strew  over  it  bread- 
crumbs, parsley,  leeks,  sweet  marjoram,  lemon  peel  shred  fine, 
nutmeg,  pepper,  and  salt ;  roll  it  up  very  dose,  and  bind  it  hard ; 
lard  it  across  with  bacon,  then  a  row  of  cold  boiled  tongue,  a 
third  row  of  pickled  cucumbers,  a  fourth  row  of  lemon  peel ; 


^ 


64  DOMESTIC  CObkSRY. 

cb  it  over  in  r^mi  an  above  tUI  it  ia  larded  all  round ;  it  will' 
look  like  red,  groen^  white,  and  yellow  dices;  thenslplH.  and 
pot  it  in  a  dieep  pot  with  a  pint  of  water;  lay  over  a  caill'  ot 
vteal,  to  keep  it  frdm  Boorching;  tie  it  down  with  strong  paper, 
and  send  it  to  the  oven :  whbn  it  comes  out  skim  off  the  ftit^ 
aAd  strain  your  gravy  into  a  saucepan ;  add  to  it  two  spoona- 
fdl  of  red  D^ine,  the  same  of  browning,  one  of  mushroom 
catsup,  and  half  a  lemon ;  Ihicktn  it  with  a  lump  of  butter 
rolled  in  flour ;  dish  up  the  meat,  and  pour  the  gravy  on  the 
dish;  lay  round  forcemeat  balls;  garnish  with  horse-radish, 
and  serve  it  up. ' 

To  make  a  mock  Hare  cf  Beast's  Heart  ' 

Wash  a  large  beast* s  heart  clean,  and  cut  off  the  deaf 
ears,  and  stuff  It  with  some  forcemeat  as  you  do  a  hare  r 
lay  a  caul  ci  veal,  or  paper  over  the  top,  td  keep  in  the 
stuffing;  roast  it  either  in  a  cradle*spit  or  a  hanging  one; 
it  wiU  take  an  hour  and  a  half'  before  a  good  Ave ;  baste  it 
with  red  wine;  when  roasted  take  the  wine  out  of  the  drip- 
ping-pan, and  skim  off  the  fiit,  and  add  a  glass  more  wine  ; 
when  it  is  hot  put  in  some  lumps  of  red  currant  jelly,  and 
pour  it  in  the  dish ;  serve  it  up,  and  send  inred  currant  jelly 
cut  in  slices  on  a  saucer*. 

Bead's  Heart  iarisd. 

Take  a  good  beast's  heart,  stuff  it  as  before,  and  lard  it  alt 
over  with  little  bits  of  bacon  ;  dust  it  with  flour,  and  cover  it 
with  paper,  to  keep  it  from  being  too  dry,  and  send  it  to  the 
oven ;  when  baked,  put  the  heart  on  your  dish ;  take  off  th<5 
fiit,  and  strain  the  gravy  through  a  hair  sieve ;  put  it  in  a 
saucepan,  with  orie  spoonful  of  red  wine,  the  same  of  brown- 
ing, and  one  of  lemon  pickle,  half  an  ounce  of  moreis,  one 
anchovy  cut  small,  a  little  beaten  mace  ;  thicken  it  with  flour 
and  butter,  pour  it  hot  on  your  heart,  and  serve  it  up :  gar- 
nish with  barberries. 

To  take  a  Bmlloek's  Heart. 
Take  some  crumbs  of  bread,  chopped  suet,  (or  a  bit  of 
butter)  parsley  chopped,  sweet  marjoram,  lemon-peel  grated, 
peppery  salt,  and  nutmeg,  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg;  mix  diese 


tiln^R  Wg^Otet,  itair  tte  h^M  Ivkh  ft,  <«tld  send  it  tb  tli% 
ovfeh  WfaM  ^ev  fiterv^  ft  ti)»  #ith  g^Vy,  liA^tlled  bdtl'er, 
and  currant  jelly  in  boats.  The  same  toethods  ar^  tb  bCvUi^ 
whether  you  bake  or  roast  it;  hut  if  care  is  taken,  baking  it 
is  the  best  way,  as.  it  will  be  more  regularly  done  than  it  can 
be  by  raAstirtg. 

To  roast  Ton^  and  Udder. 

Aftdr  dining  the  1x>ngae  Well,  saft  ft  ^&i  coimnon  «alt 
kad  talqietHe  three  kla^s ;  tlien  hdti  U,  and  Ifleewtse  a  fine  youtig 
niinet  wiA  MAt  M  to  li,  ^\  tol^afbly  tifender ;  th^n  tie  the 
thick  pat^  (ff  iM^  to  th6  thih  p^rt  bf  the  cAhet,  ^nd  toa^  the 
tongue  and  udder  together. 

Serve  them  with  good  gravy,  and  currant  jelly  sauce.  A 
fe^  cloves  should  be  studk  in  the  udder.  This  is  ah  excellent 
dish. 

Some  people  like  lieftts*  tongues  cured  with  tlie  root,  in 
which  case  they  lo6k  much  larger ;  biit  othenMse  the  root  roust 
he  cut  off  close  to  the  gullet,  next  to  the  tongue,  but  without 
bking  away  the  fat  under  the  tongue.  The  root  roust  be 
soaked  iri  salt  and  water,  and  extreroeljr  well  cleaned,  before 
it  is  dressed ;  and  the  tongue  should  be  laid  in  salt  for  a  day 
and  a  night  before  pickled. 

.  To  fickle  Tongues  far  boiling. 

Cut  o^  the  root,  but  leave  a  little  of  tlie  kernel  and  fat« 
Sprinkle  some  6alt,  and  let  it  drain  from  the  slime  till  next 
day :  then  for  each  tongue  mix  a  large  spoonful  of  common  salt;^ 
the  same  of  coarse  sugar,  and  about  half  as  much  of  saltpetre; 
rub  it  well  in,  and  do  so  evei  y  day.  In  a  week  add  another 
heaped  spoonful  of  salt.  If  rubbed  every  day,  a  tongue  will 
he  ready  in  a  fortnight ;  but  if  only  turned  in  the  pickle  daily^ 
it  will  keep  four  op  five  weeks  without  being  too  salt. 

When  you  dry  tongues  write  the  date  da  a  parchment,  and 
tie  it  ou.    Smoke  them>  \>r  dry  them  plain,  if  ^oa  like  best. 

To  pickle  Tongues  for  boiling  another  way> 

Clean  as  above ;  for  two  tongues  allow  an  ounce  of  saltpetrei 
ttid  an  ounce  of  sal-prunella  ;  rub  them  Well.  In  two  days 
<^  well  rubbiogx  cover  them  with  common  saltj  turn  Ihem 

8  K 


66  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

every  day  for  three  weeks^  then  dry  them,  and  rob  over  them 
bran,  and  smoke  them.  In  ten  days  they  will  be  fit  to  eat. 
Keep  in  a  cool  c)ry  place. 

To  boil  a  Tongue. 

If  your  tongue  be  a  dry  one^  steep  it  in  water  all  night, 
then  boil  it  three  hours ;  if  you  would  have  it  eat  hot,  stick  it 
with  cloves  ;  rub.  it  over  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg ;  strew  over 
it  bread  crumbs ;  bast6  it  with  butter ;  set  it  before  the  fire  till 
it  is  a  light  brown ;  when  you  dish  it  up,  pour  a  little  brown 
gravy,  or  red  wine  sauce ;  lay  slices  of  currant  jelly  round  it. 

N.  B,  If  it  be  a  pickled  one,  only  wash  it  out  of  water. 

To  stew  a  Tongue. 

Salt  a  tongue  with  saltpetre  and  common  salt  for  a  week, 
turning  it  every  day.  Boil  it  tender  enough  to  peel :  when 
done,  stew  it  in  a  moderately  strong  gravy  ;  season  with  soy, 
mushroom  catsup,  Cayenne,  pounded  cloves,  and  salt  if  neces« 
sary. 

Serve  with  truffles,  morels,  and  mushrooms.  In  both  this 
receipt  and  the  next,  the  roots  must  be  taken  off  the  tongues 
before  salting,  but  some  fat  left. 

An  excellent  way  of  doing  Tongues  to  eat  cold. 

Season  with  common  salt,  and  saltpetre,  brown  sugar,  a 
little  bay-salt,  pepper,  cloves,  mace,  and  allspice,  in  fine  pow- 
der^ for  a  fortnight:  then  take  away  the  pickle,  put  the 
tongue  into  a  small  pan,  and  lay  some  butter  on  it ;  cover  it 
with  brown  crust,  and  bake  slowly  till  so  tender  that  a  straw 
would  go  through  it 

The  thin  part  of  tongues,  when  hung  up  to  dry,  grates 
like  hung  beef,  and  also  makes  a  fine  addition  to  the  flavour  ot 
omelets. 

Stewed  Ox-cheek,  plain. 
Soak  and  cleanse  a  fine  cheek  the  day  before  it  is  to  be 
eaten ;  put  it  into  a  stew-pot  that  will  cover  close,  with  three 
quarts  of  water ;  simmer  it  after  it  has  first  boiled  up  and  been 
well  skimmed.  In  two  hours  put  plenty  of  carrots,  leeks,  two 
or  three  turnips,  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  some  whole  pepper, 
and  four  ounces  of  allspice.    Skim  it  often ;  when  the  meat  is 


tender,  take  it  out ;  let  the  soap  get  cold,  take  off  the  cake  of 
At,  and  terve  the  soup  sej^arate  or  with  the  meat. 

It  should  be  of  a  fine  brown ;  which  might  be  .  done  by 
buint  sugar,  or  bj  frying  tome  onions  quite  brown  with  flour, 
and  simmering  them  with  it.     This  last  way  improves  the- 
flavour  of  all  soups  and  gravies  of  the  brown  kind. 

If  vegetables  are  not  approved  in  the  soup,  they  may  be 
taken  out,  and  a  small  roll  be  toasted,  or  bread  fried  and 
added.  Celery  is  a  great  addition,  and  should  always  be 
served.  Where  it  is  not  to  be  got,  the  seed  of  it  gives  quite 
as  good  a  flavour,  boiled  in,  and  strained  off. 

To  dre$B  an  Ox-chtek  another  way. 

Soak  half  a  head  three  hours,  and  dean  it  with  plenty  of 
water.  Take  the  meat  off  the  bones,  and  put  it  into  a  pan  with 
a  large  onion,  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  some  bruised  allspice, 
pepper,  and  salt. 

Lay  the  bones  on  the  top ;  pour  on  two  or  three  quarts  of 
water,  and  cover  the  pan  close  with  brown  paper,  or  a  dish 
that  will  fit  close.  Let  it  stand  eight  or  ten  hours  in  a  slow 
oven ;  or  simmer  it  by  the  side  of  the  fire,  or  on  a  hot  hearth. 
When  done  tender,  put  the  meat  into  a  clean  pan,  aiid  let  it 
get  cold.  Take  the  cake  of  fat  off,  and  warm  the  head  in 
pieces  in  the  soup.     Put  what  vegetables  you  choose. 

Ox-jttty  or  CoW'Fieeli, 
May  be  dressed  in  various  ways,  and  are  very  nutritious  in  all. 

Boil  them;  and  serve  in  a  napkin,  with  melted  butter, 
mustard,  and  a  large  spoonful  of  vinegar. 

Or  broil  them  very  tender,  and  serve  them  as  a  brown  fri- 
cassee :  the  liquor  will  do  to  make  jelly  sweet  or  relishing,  and 
likewise  to  give  richness  to  soups  or  gravies. 

Or  cut  them  into  four  parts,  dip  them  into  an  egg,  and 
then  flour  and  fry  them  ;  and  fry  onions  (if  you  like  them)  to 
serve  round.     Sauce  as  above. 

■ 

Or  bake  them  as  for  mock-turtle. 

Marrow-hone$. 

Cover  the  top  with  floured  cloth ;  boil  them,  and  serve  with 

dry  toast. 


W  DOMEST.K  (TQOKERT. 

May  be  served  in  a  tureen,  6tewe4  wk^h  milk  and  onion  till 
t^der.    Melted  butter  foe  sauee. 

Or  stew  the  thin  part,  cut  into  bite,  m  gravy:  thicken 
with  ioor  and  butter,  and  add  alitde  oatanp. 

Or  fricassee  it  with  wlute  sauce. 

To  frj^  Tripe  in  Batter. 

Cut  tjifff  tripe,  being  firi^t. nicely  prepared,  into  small  pieces;, 
^P.tbein.  into  a  smooth  light  batter,  a94  fry  them  in  boiling 
pork  lard  of  a  finf9  light  bro\i^.  Tripe  is  very  nice  rubbed 
with  yolk  of  eggs,  strewed  with  bread  crumbs  and  chopped 
parsley,  and  then  fued.  Fried  onions  may  be  served  with  it 
eit)iev  way  if  ag^eeabl^. 

To  fry  Trife  another  way. 
Make  the  batter  thicker  than  for  a  pudding,  cut  the  tripe 
tjie  sa.mc^  as  for  a. fricassee;  bave  spn^e  hot  dripping;  put  the 
tripe  in  the  batter,  and  ta)ce  it  out,  one  piece  at  a  time,  with 
either  a  fork  or  a  skewer,  and  put  it  into  tjie  hot  dripping,  or 
laj:d,  whichever  i?  most  convenient  (for  my  part,  I  should  pre- 
fer dripping;)  fry  it  of  a  nice  brown;  when  done,  put  it  on 
the  back  of  a  sieve,  to  drain  the  fat  from  it ;  then  fry  some 
parsley,  that,  has  been  picked  apd  dried  before  the  fire ;  pat 
the  tripe  round  the  dish,  and  the  parsley  in  the  middle. 

Boiled  Tripe  and  Onions. 
The  tripe  should  be  cut  in  pieces,  about  two  inches  square; 
peel  as  many  onions  as'  are  wanteds  and  put  them  and  the  tripe 
into  a  sauce-pan,  and  as  much  water  as  will  cover  the  tripe; 
put  in  a  little  milk,  and  a  little  salt ;  then  set  it  on  to  boil, 
until  the  onions  are  well  done ;  onions  cannot  be  boiled  too 
much ;  for  the  moi:e  they  are  boiled  in  reason,  the  milder  they 
are :  it  should  be  sept  to  ts^ble  ii)  a  tureen. 

Fricassee  of  Tripe,  and  Onion  Sauce. 

The  tripe  should  not  be  more  than  half  the  size,  for  this 

purpose,  to  that  which  goes  up  in  a  tureen ;  the  onion  sauce 

is  made  in  the  same  way  as  for  boiled  ducks ;  boil  the  tripe  the 

same  way  as  for  a  tureen ;  when  the  tripe  ia  taken  up,  lay  it 


on  a  dean  cloth,  to  draio  tfie  Uquor  from  il ;  then  pot  it  on  the 
4Jfb»  afiA  the  9IW0Q,  wioe  ovei?  iu 

Soused  Trife. 

Boi]  tb^  tPfipe,  but  not  quite  tend^ ;  then  pu^  it  into  salt 
9jid  water^  which  m^st  be  cbapged  ev^ry  day  till  it  is  all  used. 
Wbea  jou  dress  the  tri|^,  cjip  it  into  batter  of  flour  and  eggs, 
^  ffy  it  of  i|,gqo4  brown. 

Bubble  and  Squeak 

Is  made  from  the  wt^if^.  of  boiled  a^  beef  leftr  from  a 
fomer  (}ini9^r»  Cut.  tb^  beef  in  neat  sli^^j^  and  put  it  between 
two  plat(98.  tiU  wanted ;  If  there  is  any  cabbage  left  from  the 
lasldjiyajer  it  will  answer  the  purpose;  it  should  be  squeezed 
vcfy  dry,,  and  then  chQpped  very  fine;  put  a  little  clean  drip* 
piog  into  the  frying-pa|i.:  when  hot,  put.  in  the  beef ;  sprinkle 
it  with  a  very  little  pepper^  and  fry  it  of  a  nice  brown ;  season 
bolb  sides ;  when  the  beef  is  done^  take  ijt  up  and  put  it  to  keep 
bet  while  the  cabbage  is  frying :  the  cabbage  should  be  kept 
stiniog  aboqt  while  ove^  the  fire ;  it  should  be  fried  until  all 
the  fill  is  dried  up :  p>it  the  cabbage  on  the  middle  of  the  dish, 
*  «k|  the  beef  r4lind  it 


VEAL. 

To  keep  Veal  ' 

The  part  that  frsi  Uims  bad  of  &  leg  of  veal,  is  wbere  the 
udikr  it  shewered  b^fc ;  therefore  the  skewer  should  be  taken 
ottt»  and  both  that  and  the  port  under  it  wiped  every  day,  by 
wUch  v^9p»  it.  nill  keep  good  three  or  four  days  in  hot. 
wenber.  Take  care  to  cut  out  the  pipe  that  runs  along  the 
chine  of  a  loin  of  veal^  as  you  do  of  beef,  to  hinder  it  from 
tainting.  The  skirt  of  the  breast  of  veal  must  likewise 
be  taken  off;  and  the  inside  of  the  breast  wiped  and  scraped, 
nd  sprinkled  with- » little  salt. 


TO  DOMESTIC  CaOKBRT. 

To  rooit  a  Leg  of  Feal. 

The  fillet  must  be  cut  large  or  sniall,  as  best  suits  the  num- 
ber of  your  company.  Take  out.  the  bone,  fill  the  space  with 
a  fine  stuffing,  and  let  it  be  skewered  quite  round ;  and  send 
the  large  side  uppermost.  When  half  roasted,  if  not  before, 
put  a  paper  over  the  fat ;  and  take  care  to  allow  a  suflScient 
time,  and  put  it  a  good  distance  from  the  fire,  as  the  meat  is 
very  solid :  serve  witir  melted  butter  poured  over  it.  Some  of 
tbis  joint  may  be  potted. 

*  « 

T^disguise  a  Ltg  of  Veal. 

Lard  the  top^de'  of  a  leg  of  veal  in  rows  with  bacon,  and 
stuff  it  well  with  forcemeat  made  of  oysters ;  then  put  it  into 
a  large  sauce-pan,  with  as  much  water  as  will  cover  it ;  put  on 
a  close  lid,  to  keep  the  steam  in  ;  stew  it  gently  till  quite  ten- 
der ;  then  take  it  up,  and  boil  down  the  gravy  in  the  pan  to  a 
quart ;  skim  off  the  fat,  and  add  half  a  lemon,  a  spoonful  of 
mxishroom  catsup,  a  little  lemon  pickle,  the  crumbs  of  half  a 
permy-loaf  grated  exceedingly  fine ;  boil  it  in  your  gravy  till  it 
looks  thick;  then  add  half  a  pint  of  oysters;  if  not  thick 
enough,  roll  a  lump  of  butter  in  fiour  and  put  it  in,  with  half 
a  pint  of  good  cream,  and  the  yolks  of  three  eggs ;  shake  your 
sauce  over  the  fire,  but  do  not  let  it  boil  after  the  eggs  are  in, 
lest  it  curdle  ;  put  your  veal  in  a  deep  dish,  and  pour  the  sauce 
over  it ;  garnish  with  crisped  parsley  and  fried  oysters.  It  is 
an  excellent  dish  for  the  top  of  a  large  table. 

Veid  Hams, 

Cut  a  leg  of  veal  in  the  shape  of  a  ham.  Take  half  a 
pound  of  bay  salt,  two  ounces  of  saltpetre,  and  a  pound  of 
common  salt.  Mix  them  all  well  together,  with  an  ounce  of 
beaten  juniper  berries,  and  rub  the  ham  well  with  them.  Lay 
it  in  a  tray  with  the  skinny  side  downwards,  baste  it  every  day 
with  the  pickle  for  a  fortnight,  and  then  hang  it  in  a  wood- 
smoke  for  a  fortnight  longer.  When  you  dress  it,  you  may 
boil  it,  or  parboil  and  roast  it.  It  will  eat  exceedingly  pleasant 
either  way. 

To  Boil  a  Knuckle  of  Veal 
The  following  is  a  very  good  method  of  dressing  a  knuckle 
of  veal.— Boil  with  th^  veal  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  rioe,  a 


VBAL.  71 

blade  of  maoe,  and  a  few  sweet  herbs :  when  the  knudde  ia 
sofficientlj  done  for  eatings  take  it  out,  and  boil  in  the  liquor 
a  quarter  oi  a  pound  of  vermicelli;  adding,  afterward^  half  a 
pint  of  cream,  a  little  fresh  butter,  with  burnt  flour,  and  same 
fried  onions.  The  liquor,  or  sauce,  may  be  served  up  either 
•epsrately  or  with  the  meat 

« 

To  Ragout  a  Knuckle  of  Veal. 

Cut  a  knnckle  of  veal  into  slices  about  half  an  inch  thick ; 
pepper,  salt,  and  flour  them ;  fry  them  a  light  brown ;  put  the 
trimmings  into  a  stew-pan,  with  the  bone  broke  in  several 
places ;  an  onion  sliced,  a  head  of  celery,  a  banch  of  sweet 
herbs,  and  two  blades  of  bruised  mace:  pour  in  warm  water 
enough  to  cover  them  about  an  inch :  cover  the  pot  dose,  and 
let  it  stew  Tery  gently  for  a  couple  of  hours :  strain  it,  and  then 
thicken  it  with  flour  and  butter ;  put  in  a  spoonful  of  catsup, 
a  glass  of  wine,  and  juice  of  half  a  lemon ;  give  it  a  boil  up, 
ami  strain  into  a  clean  stew-pan :  put  in  the  meat,  make  it  hot, 
and  serve  up. 

If  celery  is  not  to  be  had,  use  a  carrot  instead,  or  flavour 
it  with  celery  seed*. 

To  etew  a  Knuckle  of  Veal. 

As  few  people  are  fond  of  boiled  veal,  it  may  be  well  to 
leave  the  knuckle  small,  and  take  off  some  cutlets  or  collops 
before  it  be  dressed ;  and  as  the  knuckle  will  keep  longer  than 
the  fillet,  it  is  best  not  to  cut  off  the  slices  till  wanted.  Break 
the  bones  to  make  it  take  less  room ;  wash  it  well ;  and  put  it 
into  a  sauce-pan  with  three  onions,  a  blade  of  mace  or  two,  and 
a  few  pepper-corns ;  cover  it  with  water,  and  simmer  it  till 
quite  ready.  In  the  mean  time  some  macaroni  should  be  boiled 
with  it  if  approved,  or  rice,  or  a  little  rice  flour,  to  give  it  a 
small  degree  of  thickness :  but  do  not  put  too  much.  '  Before 
it  is  served,  add  half  a  pint  of  milk  and  cream,  and  let  it  come 
up  either  with  or  without  the  meat. 

To  stew  a  Knuckle  of  Veal  another  way. 

Lay  at  the  bottom  of  your  saucepan  four  wooden  skewers 
cross-ways,  then  put  in  the  veal,  with  two  or  three  blades  of 
macei  a  little  whole  pepper,  a  piece  of  thyme,  a  small  onion. 


n  "    DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

a  cruil  of  breldy  attd  two  quitftB  of  wait€ir»  Covei'  k  d6wn 
dose,  nake  it  boti^  and  then  ofiily  let  it  Mintner  for  tl^o  iMfors. 
When  enough,  take  it  u)>,  put  it  into  your  «diflh^  and  slt^il  Ih^ 
Hqiior  owr  it     Garnish  with  leibMik 

» 

To  fry  a  Knuckle  of  Veol. 

Fry  the  knuckle  with  sliced  onion  and  butter  to  a  good 
brown ;  and  have  rtody  p^to,  letluofe,  dnioH,  and  a  cucumber 
or  tWb^  «te#ed  ita  a  smaU  qnanftity  of  Water^  an  hronr  j  thto  «idd 
tbrae  to  the  yeal ;  and  atew  it  till  the  meat  it  ibendel*  efriongh  to 
tety  but  i^ot  6vefdooe»  Thrdw  in  p^por^  nlt>  and  a  bit  of 
ahred  itAxki,  aad  serve  all  together. 

Shotdder  of  Veal. 

Cut  off  the  knuckle,  for  a  stew  or  gtBMy.  Roast  the  ollnr 
part  for  stuffing :  you  may  lard  it.     S^ve  witfti  tneked  butter. 

The  blade-bone,  with  a  good  deal  ^  meat  left  on,  eats  ex« 
tremely  well  with  mushroom  or  oyster  sauce;,  or  mtisbroeai 
catsup  in  butter. 

To  roast  a  "Neck  of  VedL. 
Saw  off  the  chine  bone^  and  strip  the  meat  from  the  ends 
of  the  ribs ;  chop  off  about  an  inch  of  the  rib  bones,  put  it  on 
a  lark  spit,  and  tie  it  on  the  apit ;  butter  and  salt  it,  put  double 
paper  over  it,  and  tie  the  paper  on ;  keep  it  well  basted  while  at 
the  &re :  put  gravy  and  butter  under  the  veal  when  dished. 

Neck  of  Veal  a-la-Royale, 
Cut  off  the  scrag  end  and  part  of  the  chine-bone,  to  make 
it  lie  flat  in  the  dish ;  then  diop  a  few  mushrooms,  shalots»  a 
little  parsley  and  thyme,  all  very  fine,  with  pepper  and  salt ; 
cut  middle-sized  lards  of  bacon,  and  roll  them  in  the  herbs, 
&c.  and  lard  the  lean  part  of  the  neck :  pat  it  in  a  stew-psn, 
with  some  lean  bacon  or  shank  of  hami  and  the  chine-bone  and 
scrag  cut  in  pieces,  with  three  or  four  csrrots>  onions,  a  head 
of  celery,  and  a  little  beaten  mace ;  pour  in  as  much  water  as 
will  cover  the  pan  Very  closer  and  let  it  stew  abwiy  for  two  or 
three  hours,  till  tender ;  then  strain  half  a  pmt  of  the  liquor 
out  of  the  pan,  through  a  fine  sieve ;  set  it  over  a  stove^  and  let 
it  boil ;  keep  stirring  it  till  it  is  dry  at  the  boltooii   and  of  a 


VEAL.  W 

food  farown ;  be  sure  you  do,  not  let  it  born ;  then  add  more 
of  the  liquor  strained  free  from  fat,  and  keep  stirring  it  till  it 
becomes  a  fine  thick  brown  glase;  then  take  the  veal  out  of  the 
stew-pan,  and  wipe  it  clean,  and  pot  the  larded  side  down 
upon  the  glase ;  set  it  orer  a  gentle  fire  five  or  six  minutes  to 
take  theglase;  then  lay  it  in  the  dish  with  the  glazed  side  up, 
and  put  into  the  same  stew-pan  as  much  flour. as.  will  lie  on  a 
sixpence ;  stnr  it  about  well,  and  add  some  of  the  braise-liquor^ 
if  any  be  left  ;  letit  boil  till  it  is  of  a  proper  thickness ;  steain  it, 
and  pour  it  in  the  bottom  of  the  dish;  squeeze  in  a  little  juice 
sf  lemon,  and  serve  it  op. 

Neck  of  Feal  a^la-Braise. 

Lard  the  best  end  with  bacon  rolled  in  parsley  chopped 
fine,  salt,  pepper,  and  nutmeg :  put  it  into  a  tosslir,  and  cover 
it  with  water.  Put  to  it  the  scrag-end,  a  little  lean  bacon  or 
bam,  an  onion,  two  carrots,  two  heads  of  celery;  and  about 
a  glass  of  Madeira  wine.  Stew  it  quick  two  hours,  or  til]  it  is 
tender,  but  not  too  much.  Strain  off  the  liquor :  mix  a  little 
flour  and  butter  in  a  stew-pan  till  brown,  and  lay  the  veal  in 
Ibis,  the  upper  side  to  the  bottom  of  the  pan.  Let  it  be  over 
tbe  fire  till  it  gets  coloured :  then  lay  it  into  the  dish  ;  stir  some 
of  tbe  liquor  in,  and  boil  it  up;  skim  it  nicely,  and  squeeze 
orange  or  lemon-juice  into  it. 

Neek  of  Veal  larded. 

Take  off  the  under  bone  of  a  neck  of  veal,  leave  only  a 
part  of  the  long  bones  on  ;  trim  it  neatly,  lard  it,  and  roast  it 
gently  with  a  veal  caul  over  it.  Ten  minutes  before  it  is  done 
take  off  the  caill,  and  let  the  veal  be  of  a  very  light  colour. 
Wben  it  is  to  be  served  op  put  under  it  some  sorrel  sauce, 
celery  heads,  or  asparagus  tops,  or  serve  it  with  mushroom 
nuce. 

To  stew  a  Neck  of  FetU. 

Lard  it  with,  large  pieces  of  bacon  rolled  in  pepper,  and 
salt,  shalots,  and  spices.  Put  it  into  your  stew-pan  with  about 
three  pints  of  broth,  two  onions,  a  laurel  leaf,  and  a  little 
hrandy.    Let  it  sunmer  gently  till  it  is  tender,  then  put  it  into 

S  L 


^4  DOMEST)^  CbOKERT. 

ydvct  6hh,  uice  th6  scam  cleAn  d<^  &te  tiqtioip/  ittfd  tb«n  pMr 
it  on  tfas  itteflt. 

To  rM$i  «  Ft7/i;«  «/  Tirii/. 

Put  some  aoaimon  sttifflng  in  the  flAp,  eut  tfa*  flank  fiicoe 
<»ut,  as  it  will  make  it  more  routid  to  skewer  np,  pnt  it  on  ihe 
fipit,  butter  it  well,  sprinkle  salt  on  it,  put  two  aheeti  of  white 
kitchen  pap^r  o^er  it,  and  tie  it  on  with  twine ;  two  hours  wiH 
roast  it ;  put  g^avy  and  hotter  in  the  dish.  When  the  pilper  is 
taken  off  the  veal,  flour  it  well  to  make  it  of  a  nice  brown : 
just  before  it  is  taken  up,  baste  it  with  butter,  and  flour  and 
salt  it. 

To  otew  a  Fillet  of  Veal. 

Take  the  fillet  of  a  cow-calf,  stuff  it  well  under  the  udder, 
«nd  at  the  bone*end  quite  through  to  the  shank.  Put  it  into 
ihe  oten,  with  a  fmi  of  water  under  it,  till  it  is  of  a  fine 
brdWO  ;  then  put  it  into  a  stew-pan,  with  three  pints  of  gravy. 
SteW  it  till  it  is  tender,  and  then  put  a  few  morels,  truffles,  a 
(tea«>speonfiil  of  lemon-pickle,  a  large  one  of  browning,  one  of 
catsup,  and  a  little  cayenne  pepper.  Thicken  it  with;a  lump 
of  butter  roUed  in  flour.  Take  out  your  veal,  and  pnt  it  into 
a  di^ ;  then  straiti  the  gravy,  pour  it  over,  and  lay  round 
forcemeat  balls.    Garnish  with  sliced  lemon  and  pickles. 

Filkt  of  Veal  with  CoUops. 

Take  a  small  fillet  of  veal,  and  cut  what  collops  you  want ; 
Aen  take  the  udder,  and  fill  it  with  forcemeat ;  roll  it  rounds 
tie  it  with  packthread  across^  and  roast  it.  LfSy  your  collops 
in  the  dish,  and  lay  your  ndder  in  the  middle.  Garnish  with 
lemon. 

BreaH  of  Veal. 

Before  roasted,  if  large,  the  two  ends  may  be  taken  off 
and  firied  to  stew,  or  the  whole -may  be  roasted.  Butter  should 
be  poured  over  it. 

If  any  be  left,  cut  the  pieces  into  handsome  sizes ;  put 
them  into  a  stew-pan,  and  pour  some  broth  over  it;  or  if  you 
have  no  broth,  a  little  water  will  do :  add  a  bunch  of  herbs,  a 
blade  or  two  of  mace,  some  pepper,  and  an  anchovy ;  stew  till 
the  meat  is  tender;  thicken  with  butter  and  flour;  and  add  a 


liide  catsup;  otHw  iffhok  breast  may  be  eUvfed,  after  cutti^jp 
0t  tbe  two  eni\%. 

Serve  tbe  sweetbread  whole  upon  it,  which  may  either  b^ 
atffwfd  or  parbo^aii  ar^l  thtm  covered  with  crui»b9>  bfirbs^ 
pepper,  and  salt,  and  browned  in  a  Dutch  oven* 

If  jou  have  a  few  mushrooms,  truffles,  and  morels,  'stew 
them  with  it,  and  terve. 

A  boikd  bmMt  of  yeal^  smotb^ed  with  onion^aiauce,  ia  an 
^ififiUeot  diah,  if  not  old  nor  too  Sat, 

To  ragout  a  Sreast  of  Veal, 

Half-roast  a  breast  of  veal ;  then  bone  it,  and  put  it  in  a 
tossing-pan,  with  a  quart  of  veal  gravy,  one  ounce  of  morels, 
the  same  of  truffles ;  «(tew  it  tiU  tender>  fnd  just  before  you 
thicken  the  gr^vy  piit  in  a  few  pysters,  pickled  poushri^ms, 
and  pickled  cucumbessj  cut  in  small  square  pieces,  the  yolks 
of  four  eggs. boiled  hard;  cut  your  sweetbread  in  slices,  and 
£ry  it  a  l^ht  brown ;  dish  up  your  veal,  and  pour  the  gravy 
hot  over  it;  lay  your  sweetbread  rounds  truffles,  morels,  and  e^s 
upon  it ;  garnish  with  pickled  barberries.  This  is  proper  i^ 
either  tiqp  or  side  for  dinner,  or  bottom  for  supper. 

To  ragout  a  Breast  of  Veat  another  way. 

Take  off  tfie  under  bone,  and  cut  the  breast  in  half,  length- 
ways ;  divide  it  into  handsome  pieces,  not  too  large  to  help  at 
•nee :  put  about  two  ounces  of  butter  into  a  frying-pan,  and 
£7  die  veal  till  it  is  a  light  brown,  then  put  it  iuto  a  stew-pan 
with  veal  broth,  or  as  much  boiling  water  as  will  cover  it,  a 
bundle  of  sweet  marjoram,  common  or  lemon  thyme,  and 
parsley,  with  four  cloves,  or  a  couple  of  bkdes  of  pounded 
mace,  three  young  onions,  or  one  old  one,  a  roll  of  lemoni-peel, 
a  dosen  corns  of  allspice  bruised,  and  a  tea^spoonful  of  salt ; 
cover  it  dose,  and  let  it  all  simmer  very  gently  till  the  veal  is 
tender,  t.  e.  for  about  an  hour  and  a  half;  if  it  is  very  thick, 
two  hovrs ;  then  strain  off  as  much  (about  a  quart)  of  the 
giayy,  .as  you  think  you  will  want,  into  a  basin  ;  set  the  stew^ 
pan,  with  the  meat,  &c.  in  it,  by  the  fire  to  ke^  Jbot.  To 
thioken  the  ^avy  you  have  taken  out,  put  an  ounce  and  a  half 
lof  butter  into  a  dean  stew-pan ;  when  it  is  melted,  stir  in  as 
much  flour  as  it  will  take,  add  the  gravy  by  degrees,  aeason  it 


76  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

with  salt»  let  it  boil  ten  minutes,  skim  it  well,  and  season  it 
with  two  table-spoonful  of  white  wine,  one  of  mushroom  cat« 
iBup,  and  the  same  of  lemon  juice  ;  give  it  a  boil  up,  and  it  is 
ready :  now  put  the  veal  into  a  ragout  dish,  and  strain  the 
gravy  through  a  fine  sieve  to  it 

To  stew  a  Breast  of  Veai. 

Put  a  breast  of  veal  into  the  stew-pan/  with  a  little  broth, 
a  glass  of  white  wine,  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  a  few  mush- 
rooms, two  or  three  onions,  with  some  pepper  and  salt.  Stew 
it  over  a  gentle  fire  till  it  is  tender ;  and  when  done,  strain  and 
scum  the  sauce.    Garnish  with  forcemeat  balls. 

To  roll  a  Breast  of  Veal. 

*  Bone  it,  take  off  the  thick  skin  and  gristle,  and  beat  the 
meat  with  a  rolling-pin.  Season  it  with  herbs  chopped  very 
fine,  mixed  with  salt,  pepper,  and  mace.  Lay  some  thick 
slices  of  fine  ham ;  or  roll  it  into  two  or  three  calves'  tongues 
of  a  fine  red,  boiled  first  an  hour  or  two,  and  skinned.  Bind 
it  up  tight  in  a  cloth,  and  tape  it.  Set  it  over  the  fire  to  sim- 
mer, in  a  small  quantity  of  water,  till  it  is  quite  tender :  this 
will  take  some  hours.  Lay  it  on  the  dresser,  with  a  board  and 
weight  on  it  till  quite  cold. 

Pigs'  or  calves'  feet  boiled,  and  taken  from  the  bones,  may 
be  put  in,  or  round  it.  The  different  colours  laid  in  layers 
look  well  when  cut:  and  you  may  put  in  yolks  of  eggs  boiI« 
ed,  beet-root,  grated  ham,  and  chopped  parsley,  in  different 
parts. 

Porcupine  of  a  Breast  of  Veal. 

Take  a  fine  large  breast  of  veal,  bone  it,  and  rub  it  over 
with  the  yolks  of  two  eggs.  Spread  it  on  a  table,  and  lay 
over  it  a  little  bacon  cut  as  thin  as  possible,  a  handful  of  parsley 
shred  fine,  the  yolks  of  i^ve  hard  boiled  eggs  chopped  small^ 
a  little  lemon  peel  cut  fine,  the  crumbs  of  a  penny  loaf  steeped 
in  cream,  and  season  to  your  taste  with  salt,  pepper,  and  nut- 
meg. Roll  the  breast  of  veal  close,  and  skewer  it  up.  Then 
cut  some  fat  bacon,  the  lean  of  bam  that  has  been  a  little 
boiled,  and  pickled  cucumbers,  about  two  inches  long.  Lard 
the  veal  with  this  in  rows,  first  ham,  then  bacon,  and  then 


VBAt.  ,  77 

eoeumbars,  till  you  htve  larded  every  pflort  of  it.  Pat  it  into 
a  deep  earthen  pot,  with  a  pint  of  water,  oorer  it  dose,  and 
•et  it  in  a  alow  oven  for  two  hours.  When  it  comes  llrom  the 
oven,  skim  off  the  fiit»  and  strain  the  gravy  through  a  sieve 
into  a  stew-pan.  Put  into  it  a  glass  of  white  wine,  a  little 
lemon-pickle  and  caper  liquor,  and  a  spoonful  of  mushroom 
catsnp.  Thicken  it  with  a  little  butter  rolled  in  fiour,  lay  your 
porcupine  on  the  dish,  and  pour  your  sauce  over  it.  Have 
ready  a  roll  of  forcemeat  nuide  thus :  take  the  crumb  of  a 
penny  loaf,  half  a  pound  of  beef  suet  shred  fine,  the  yolks  of 
four  eggs,  and  a  few  chopped  oysters.  Mix  these  well  toge- 
ther, and  season  it  to  your  taste  with  cayenne  pepper,  salt,  and 
nutmeg.  Spread  it  on  a  veal  caul,  and  having-  rolled  it  up 
dose  like  a  coloured  ed,  bind  it  in  a  doth,  and  boil  it  an  hour. 
This  done,  cut  it  into  four  slices,  lay  one  at  each  end,  and  the 
others  on  the  sides.  Have  ready  your  sweetbread  cut  in  slices 
and  fried,  and  lay  them  round  it  with  a  few  mushrooms.  This 
nukes  a  grand  bottom  dish  at  that  time  of  the  year  when  game 
is  not  to  be  had. 

Pillow  of  Veal. 

Having  half  roasted  a  neck  or  breast  of  veal,  cut  it  int6 
six  pieces,  and  season  it  with  white  pepper,  salt,  and  nutmeg. 
Take  a  pound  of  rice,  put  to  it  a  quart  of  stock,  some  mace, 
snd  a  little  salt  Do  it  over  a  stove,  or  very  dow  fire,  till  it 
IB  thick;  but  butter  the  bottom  of  the  pan  or  dish  you  do  it 
in.  Beat  up  the  yolks  of  six  eggs,  and  stir  them  into  it. 
Then  take  up  a  little  round  deep  dish,  butter  it,  and  lay  some 
of  the  rice  at  the  bottom.  Then  lay  the  veal  on  a  round  heap, 
and  cover  it  all  over  with  rice.  Wash  it  over  with  the  yolks  of 
eggs,  and  bake  it  an  hour  and  a  half.  Then  open  the  top, 
and  pour  in  a  pint  of  rich  good  gravy. 

Saoowry  Dish  of  Veai. 

Having  cut  large  collops  out  of  a  leg  of  veal,  spread  these 
abroad  on  a  dresser,  hack  them  with  the  back  of  a  knife,  and 
dip  them  into  the  yolks  of  eggs.  Season  with  salt,  mace,  nut« 
meg,  and  pepper,  beaten  fine.  Make  forcemeat  with  some  of 
yonr  ved,  beef  suet,  oysters  chopped,  sweet  herbs  shred  fine, 
snd  kitchen  pepper :  strew  all  these  over  your  collops,  roll  and 


W  DOMESTIC  C0OKBRT. 

tie  them  up,  put  them  on  akewere^  tie  theta  to  a  tpit,  $ad  raaeK 
thecou  To  the  reat  of  your  forcemeat  add.a  raw  egg  or  twoj 
aad  loU  them  in  balk  and  fry  them*  Put  then  into  yow  dish^ 
with  your  meat  whoi  r<iii«ted»  and  make  die  aauoe  with  strong 
filoek,  an  anchovy,  an  eiehalot»  a  Uttte  white  wioe^  and  some 
apice.  Let  it  Jttev.  a^d  thicken  it  wttii  4  piece  of  butter 
tolled  in  flour.  Pour  ti^  aauce  into  the  disb>  lay  the  meat  to^ 
and  serve. 

Loin  rf  Veal  en  Epigram. 

Roaeta  loin  of  v^al  pnipc^ly  i&s  eatii^c,  then  take  it  upt» 
and  carefully  cut  off  the  ekin  fimtu  the  hack  part  without 
htreaking  it.  Cut  out  the  lean  part,  but  leave  Uie  ends  whole, 
to  contain  the  IbUowing  mincenifeat:  mioee  all  the  veal  very 
fine  with  Ihe  kidney  part,  put  it  into  a  little  gravy,  enongfa  to 
BKUsten  it  with  the  gravy  that  comes  from  the  loin.  Put  in  a 
little  pepper  and  salt,  some  lemon-peel  shred  fine,  the  yolks  of 
three  eggi^  and  a  bpoonful  of  cyiteup.  Thicken  ii  with  a  little 
butter  rolled  in  flour.  Give  it  a  shake  or  two  over  the  £ie, 
put  it  into  the  loin,  and  pull  the  skin  gently  over  it.  If  the 
akin  should  not  quite  oovter  k,  give  Che  part  wanting  a  brown 
with  a  hot  iron,  or  put  it  into  an  oven  for  about  a  quarter 
of  an  hour.  Send  it  up  hot,  and  garnish  with  lemon  and  bar« 
berries. 

Chump  of  Veal  a-hrDauhe. 

Cut  off  the  chump  end  of  the  loin  ;  take  out  the  edge-bone; 
stuff  the  hollow  with  good  forcemeat,  tie  it  up  tight^  and  lay  it 
in  a  stew-pan,  with  the  bone  you  took  out,  a  little  fijjggot  of 
herbs,  an  anchovy,  two  blades  of  mace,  a  few  white  peppers, 
and  a  pint  of  good  veal  broth.  Cover  the  veal  with  slices  of 
fat  bacon,  and  lay  a  sheet  of  white  paper  over  it.  Cover  the 
pan  close,  simmer  it  two  hoars,  then  take  out  the  bacon,  and 
glaze  the  veal. — Sei^e  it  on  mushrooms,  or  with  sorrel«sauce, 
or  what  else  you  please. 

Veal-rolh  of  either  cold  Meat  or  fresh. 

Cut  diin  slices ;  and  spread  on  them  a  fine  seasoning  of  a 
very  few  crumbs,  a  little  chopped  bacon  or  scraped  ham,  and 
a  little  suet,  parsley,  and  ahalot,  (xxr,  instead  of  the  paisley 


rtAt.  W 

and  shalot,  scnne  fresh  iMiAroomi  stewed  and  minced^)  pepper, 
mit,  and  aanali  piece  of  pounded  maoe. 

This  stuffing  maj  either  fill  up  the  roll  like  a  sausage,  or 
be  nilkd  with  the  meat.  In  either  case  tie  it  up  very  tight^ 
•nd  stew  very  slowly  in  a  gravy,  and  a  glass  of  dieny. 

Serve  it  when  tender,  after  skimming  it  nicely. 

To  make  an  excellent  Ragout  of  cold  Veal. 

Eitfaar  a  neck,  loin,  or  fillet  of  veal,  will  furnish  this  ex* 
ceUent  ragout,  with  a  very  little  expense  or  trouble. 

Cut  the  veal  into  haftds^me  cntl^ ;  put  a  piece  of  butter, 
or  rlean  dripping,  into  a  frying-pan ;  as  soon  as  it  ia  hot,  flour, 
«id  firy  the  veal  of  a  light  brown :  take  it  oat,  and  if  you 
bsrc  no  gravy  ready,  put  m  pint  of  boiling  water  into  the  fry- 
iag-pan,  give  it  a  boil  for  a  minute,  and  strain  it  into  a  basin, 
while  yott  make  some  thickening  in  the  following  manner  :--» 
Pot  about  an  ounce  of  butter  into  a  stew-pan ;  as  soon  as  it 
Boelts,  mix  with  it  as  much  flour  as  will  dry  it  up ;  stir  it  over 
the  fire  for  a  few  minutes,  and  gradually  add  to  it  the  gravy 
you  made  in  the  frying-pan ;  let  them  simmer  together  for  ten 
numites,  (till  thoroughly  incorporated ;)  season  it  with  pepper, 
aak,  and  a  little  mace,  and  a  wine  glass  of  mushroom  catsup^ 
or  wine ;  strain  it  through  a  tammis  to  the  meat ;  and  stew  very 
gently  till  the  meat  is  thoroughly  warmed.  If  you  have  any 
ready  boiled  bacon,  cut  it  in  slices,  and  put  it  in  to  warm  with 

Veal  Florendine. 

Mince  a  fine  kidney  or  two  of  veal,  with  the  surrounding 
£it ;  chop  parsley  and  other  fresh  herbs,  a  large  apple  or  two, 
some  candied  orange  peel,  and  two  or  three  hard  yolks  of  eggs, 
^oite  small;  then  add  a  handful  of  nicely-pickled  currants; 
two  or  three  grated  biscuits,  or  some  crumbs  of  bread ;  a  little 
beaten  mace,  cloves,  nutmeg,  and  sugar;  with  a  glass  of 
numntain  wine,  and  as  much  orange-flower  water.  Mix  the 
whole  well  tqgether,  lay  a  sheet  of  puff'-paste  at  the  bottom 
and  round  a  dish,  put  in  the  mixed  meat,  and  lay  over  it  a  cut- 
paste  lid  garnished  round  the  edge.  Bake  it  in  a  slack  oven ; 
and  serve  it  up  quite  hot,  with  sugar  scraped  over  the  top. 


tfe  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

narricoof  Veal.  * 

iTake  ttie  best  end  oi"  a  small' neck;  cut  the"  bones  short, 
but  leave  It  whole ;  then  put' it  into  a  stew-pan  lust  covered 
with  brown  gravy :  and  when  it  is  nearly  done,  have  reaay  a 
pint  of  boiled  peas,  six  cucumbers  pared  ancf 'sliceill  ^aftcflwo 
cabbage-lettuces  cut  into  ^9^t^,(|^^  ^wed  m  a  little  ^ood 

bTRth t,  pii,t.  t^S».tei5^&^53lA^^ti5fitfc??LffW^^^ 
When.the.yeayf. i;j  %,{i\A^  P^fir.tjhe.  m!^  ,ft?^  XW^f^H 
qyeut,  i^^^ay  the^uce ^iX^iovf^^^^  imHh  ,.3;>gu, 

5'  J,;.4  ..\,k  .'  '.,  •  oi  ;>  '^-^y :  v^'  I  .>'».UT;iiiT  ^xaBK  oifi  ni  iB^d  be*. 
J  ,     ,  ,       To  mtnce  VeaL  .  ,    , 

lti>.CJufe^P?ld  ysftl^{};fipp  ns,5p5si|^le,^  bi^t,%n<jt  c|p,iSu^Hfo 

take  care  not  to  let  it  IjQil  j  apd,i¥|d,  ^  .Ijft.o^  ^j^^fj  ^J,,^  ^^ 
flour.     Put  sippets  of  thin  toasted  bread,  cut  into  a  three- 
cornered  shape,  round  thfttfMiD  \'^  ^\ 

1^  .»:>       U  y^.U   :- v'^  };.!:  ^,^       ■     i    m'{  .":  -.1  tfj  u,:.' ,    'm\\  ll)^ 

Put  jftailt^  o.fl«!^9qil9  wk*,  half,  %K^t/ifc|paxH>  j*  WS*  PttBRTi 
And  sah,  .H  ^Uc^i  of»  lempji,.  a  gpod^  j^ao^i  of  bifUV,  fi^lflfi^'iiRl 
floqiV  «  teMSPO^rt  rf  teww  pipklft  wA  «!la^  ttSPR^fttj^; 
tr^m.  Kwp.#«Wng:k  flw  A§ A?^  iffl^f  bi^;. Jij^hi  diW^j 
of  bnad reador. ii^ ibp ^iiafciWi tbfin,p^jHr^tl|a F()^%<««gt||f990 
Gtotiiah  wkksiiMdlfqfpOii  .  if,/  :  ,  ,:.  j.  :m  .,  ;.  j^j  .qij^ijii 
•'-■•■■      '     •     ^'  '  -  -"'i'^  '•  '■•  •  *   ''  »i''  7  .*  •!  .:  •  v*^  n.'.lr  ^  noofj;;  ^ 

Cold  fillet  makes  the  fin^i'^Qo^tirDal;;  ;<iM  ^^o.  4xMyu^/i|t. 
as  follows : 

Season  a  large  slic^ VHh^  *l!!l6t^Sbft^e  it  is  dressed  with 

ihio'ft'^dttrri^-1^  thoC'Wf^l'hicitfJiift^  holdf  it^'  filfitt'Iup  -Wftk 
^^yt^/ajWr^abf'it  tlM^'hcAiWr  th«h  pbiAid  it  qtnie.«iMliifa  is 
morUtr/kiAl'idd^d^KttaMtt  ipaillilvill&^n^y  tbarwA^KiiftM- 
tb  ftinT)dutiahii^,'»lM#*flVtWn«o6ii;>:otk6rwi6e;'  oiily  a  liAfe- 
Huttei'  Jtin^iS^ltM:  "lH^tttidoa^,  «(Mrit«^eff  tfttH  Mttm^^r, 


>f 


FmiI  mom  eald  Yad  or  irhite  of  cUebeiiy  Miadaed  «« 
directed  b  tlie  iMt  article,  and  put  layers  of  k  with  hjam 
of  has,  pounded,  or  ratliar  ybred;  pnaa  each  dowi^  and 
CO? cr  kHA  >ntttr. 


•  ) 


To  nMitAfe  Pea/«. 

Boo,  Ab,  and  cut  a  dried  tongne  as  tfdn  as  poasiUe/and 
kat  it  well  witk  near  a  poiiad  of  batter,  and  n  littk  beaten 
naoe,  till  it  is  like  a  paste.  Ha?e  ready  sone  veal  sttfwed, 
asd  beat  in  the  sane  manner.  Then  pot  some  veal  into  potting-^ 
pots,  and  thin  some  tongue  in  lamps  over  the  veal.  Do  not  lay 
myonr  tongiie  in  any  form,  bat  lei  it  be  in  kimps,  and  it  wilt 
tkescnl like  maible.  Fill yottr  pat npdose  nfidi  veal,  press 
k  very  hard  down,  and  pour  olarifiad  butter  «ver  it  Semei^ 
ber  to  keep  it  in  a  dry  plajce,  and  when  yim  send  itloflable, 
«it  it  iiOo  slioes.    Garnish  ft  with  pkrsfaj^  f 


VealCuilet$. 

Cat  the  cntlets  from  tiie  leg,  and  flat  them  with  the  chop'. 
per;  thee  cut  half  as  many  slices  of  streaky  ba4;Q|i,  abonf  two 
Of  tivee  inches  long,  fry  the  hficon  of  a  nice  brown ;  then.pnjt 
k  isto  a  stew-pan ;  poar  nearly  all  the  fitt  that  pomeii  from  the 
Ucqa  ont  of  the  frying-pan,  on  a  plate ;  than  pnt  in  the  veal 
cstieti,  and  fry  them  of  a  nice  brown  on  both  sides ;  then  f^^ 
tkm  to  the  booon ;  dust  some  fioar  in  Ijh^  fiy ing-pan^  and  put 
diost  half  a  pint  of  gravy,  and  a  little  mushroom. and,  wa|^j|t 
oteap ;  let  it  boil  a  minute  or  two ;  keep  stirring  it  about  ,with 
t  ipoon ;  then  strain  it  through  a  bairraieya  into  the  stew-pi^ 
tlist  has  the  veal  and  bacon ;  squeeze  a  little  lemon-jiiicei  and 
MuoB  it  with  a  little  white  papper. 

n  fry  Feet  Cmtleh. 

Cat  your  veal  into  slices  of  a  moderate'tfiickni^,  dtp  ihem 
io  the  yolk  of  eggs  beat '  up  finf ,  and  strew  pver  thcfin'  cromM 
of  bread,  a  few  sweet  herbs,  soqie  lemon  peel;' and  a  lltUe 
grated  nutmeg.  Then  put  them  into  yoiir  pan,  ahd^firy  thenk 
with  fresh  butter.  While  tbey  are  frying,  make  k  HMe  good 
ithvfi  and  when  the  meat  is  done,  takeit  odt,  and  lay  it  hi  U 
diih  before  the  fire.  Shake  a  littk  flour  iM6  At  pan,  and  atif 


it  round;  put^tti^Vlt^'grttiry,  wHll  AMjilttf^^cf  alembii;  siif 
( fch^  «bdb4ir^U  itbfcftbiSri  and  poii  ii  «?et  Ubf  «wtkit4«  OiVnish 
ijfiivih'diUI'^ilhdittd  ktoiM    :  t 

Veal  Cutteti  btrded^ 

•  «  •  f  ,         *      / 

Cut  the  best  end  of  a  neck  of  veal  into  chops^  leaving  only 
ft  pftrt  of  \hA  long  bonl^V>tKen  hlHl^  >¥lanch»  and  stew  them  t 
ftnd.MiBi<  thqr  irft  to  he. sifted  up,  dfala  end  drj  t^emj 
rphceltheai  mnhad  pftaidlsbr  ted.  put  grMHAfUiip  Sftujce^  «r 
,t>hite  tntirfimiia  4aiing» in  thfelmiddtt*;     • 

^.•:  ••  •     1    ...  .;      .  flHH^tM  Jl^aifUcnon.  ,. ,.  . , ;  ,.,  ^ 

:'.  /  CiAsliceaaUutlhM  4«arMri|.of  tollwiViitlli(;A>.hefAtii«lft 
f«»tl%  atelliiii^pin^  4ild,Mi4hAm  ott.ttoth  i6fim  i^ttb  ^gg.ii.411^ 
4ktm  into  H  seusniiig  of  IbneiMl  lonuabs;  ftUM^d  Aylvm^  |u»otr 
MdJU^j^rim^  ptf^peiv  sidi,  laod  a  Ultle  iittt|p«g  gratfd  {  tMt 
put  them  into  papisr^ Mdedko^reiv  Aad  hfioA  t)k9m'A:^.k^tih^ 
ft  boat}  melted  buttei^,  with  a  littte  mushroom  catsup. 


«  t 


'  tit,  j(MP^  «Li^  ftbov^  tMHry  theifti»  lay  thM  i«Co  h  tttstii 
^mlA  k^p  theni  hot  t  dred^  a  liMe  fldor,  add  p>ut  a  bit  df  bUtet 
ttttd  th^  pAtk  \  btoWtf  it; then  pour  a  liW^  boiliilg  w&te^  hib>  i^ 
Uud  bbifqiiibk:  season  wMb  pepper,  salt,  attd  talMipV  Mi4 
\J<yu* oVef thetii/ '    •  '-     '  '"; 

'  •  Ot^  pr^poM  to  brfore;  «EmT  "dress  the-^^ttets  hi  a  HwtA 
i>^eA  i  jioiir  6)^it  them  m^eed  'buitet  kAi  mushtbdms. '   ■ 
'  '   t)r»  pepper,  salt,  and'' brbB' them,  espetlalfy  neck 
^fhey  af^  exceltent  with  hetbs. 


« ■ «    « 


Mince  the  meat,  extreiftf^y  small,,  wid  set  it  over  the  Hr^ 
,lf]|h  ^^letape  tsf  lMij(^isti  ^  l>^^e  pepper  and  salt,  and  a  ^ttle 
,i;fifan^^  a,few  minutes;  then  put  it  into  the  scallop-shells. 
Md  fill  ^em  with  crumbs  of  bread>  over  which  put  some  )>its 
f^  bfttt^er^  and  browte  them  before  the  fire» 
^  .fit^r  veal  or  chicken  looks  and  cits  well,  prepared  in  tbis 
pvr,,M^  lightly,  covered  with  crumbs  of  breads  fried ';  or 
H^ssfQ  BMijy.  be  p^^  ,00.19  Utile  heaps.  ^ 


A' 


VSAU  93 

TolumkriBl. 

C«t  yow  vmI  m  tliin  Topnd  fllicet,  tbefitteof  Utf  aeiiMn); 
pot  them  ioto  a  9aucep«n,  with  a  Iktle  grtt^y  anA  iMfton  -yie»l» 
cat  eiceedingiy  fine,  and  a  tea-spoonful  of  lemon  pickle ;  put  it 
oTer  the  fire,  and  thicken  it  with  flour  and  butter;  when  it 
botb  pat  in  yjoiir  veal;  Just  before'you  diah  it  tip,  put  in  a  spoon* 
fid  of  creani ;  kj  aippett  JEound  your  dish,  aod  aerve  ifup. 

Fricanieau  ^f  FeaL 

Cut  a  laige  piece  from  die  fiit  side  of  the  kg,  abo«t  nSne 
indies  lang^  and  half  as  thick  and  broad ;  beat  it  with  tho 
KoifagrpBi ;  take  ofl^  the  skin,  and  trim  off  the  rough  edgee. 
Lirdtlie  top  and  sides ;  and  cover  it  with  let  bacon,  and  the» 
vidi  white  paper.  Lay  it  into  the  stew>-pan  widi  any  pieces 
of  andressed  veal  or  mutton,  fimr  onions,  a  caitot  sliced,  a 
%got  of  sweet  herbs,  four  blades  of  mace,  four  bay  leaves,  a 
pint  of  good  veal  or  mutton  broth,  and  four  or  five  ounces  'of 
ksD  ham-  or  gmuimon.'  Giver  the  pan  close,  add  let  it  Itew 
liovly  three  hours ;  then  take  up  the  meat,  remove  all  the  fat 
from  the  gravy,  and  boil  it  quick  to  a  glaae.  Keep  the  fricai^ 
deau  gitite  hot,  and  then  glaze  it ;  and  serve  it  with  tfa^  remain^ 
der  of  the  glaze  in  the  dish,  and  sorrel  sauce  in  a  sauce  tureen. 

« Jl  ake&per,  tui  egfutify  geeif >  Firic9fuis^»i  of  VeflL 
With  a  sharp  knife,  cut  the  lean  part  of  a  large  seek  firom 
die  best  ^d,  scooping  it  firum  tiie  bones  the  length  of  your 
hand,  and'  prepare  it  ha  tiie  same  way  as  id  the  last  jreceipt ; 
(Me  or  lour  bones  only  will  be  necessary,  and  they  wtU  malce 
&gmvy :  bat  if  the  prifne  pait  of  the  legis  cot  off,  it  spoila 
die  whole. 


I 


Veal  Olives.  \ 

Cot  half  a  dozen  sUcee  off  a  fillet  of  veal,  half  an  nich 
thiek,  and  as  k>ng  end  squtfe  ae  you  can ;  4at  them  with  a 
chopper,  and  rnb  ^em  over  with  an  egg  that  has  Iwen  beat>oii 
i  pU^ ;  cut  some  fat  haoon  asthin  as  poseiUe,  fthe»  saneaiae  aa 
the  veal,  lay  it  on  the  veal,  and  rub  it  with  alittle  of  the  egg; 
make  rtittle  ved  ibrcemesit,  aiid  spread  it  rety  Hikk  over  the  j 

bacon ;  roH  up  the  olives  tight,  rtfb  them  wM'the  egg,-  and 
then  roll  them  in  fine  bread  crumbs;  put  them  on  a  hak  spit. 


84  DOMESTIC  COfOKERT. 

and  roast  them  at  a  brisk  fire;  they  will  take  three  qaarters  of 
an  hour.  Serve  with  brown  gravy^  in  which  boil  some  mush- 
rooms^ pickled^  or  fresh.     Garnish  with  balls,  fried. 

Veal  Cake. 

Boil  six  or  eight  ^gs  hard ;  cut  the  yolks  in  two,  and  lay 
some  of  the  pieces  in  the  bottom  of  the  pot ;  shake  in  a  little 
chopped  parsley,  some  slices  of  veal  and  ham,  add  then  eggs 
again ;  shaking  in  after  each  some  chopped  parsley,  with  pepper 
and  salt,  till  the  pot  is  fiiU.  Then  put  in  water  enough  to  c6ver 
it,  and  lay  on  it  about  an  ounce  of  butter;  tie  it  over  with  a 
double  paper,  and  bake  it  about  an  hour.  Then  press  it  doae 
together  with  a  spoon,  and  let  it  stand  till  cold. 

It  may  be  put  into  a  small  mould ;  and  then- it  will  torn  out 
beautifully  for  a  supper  or  side  dish. 

Veal  Sausages, 

Chop  equal  quantities  of  lean  veal  and  fat  bacon,  a  handful 
of  sage,  a  little  salt  and  pepper,  and  a  few  anchovies.  Beat 
all  in  a  mortar ;  and  when  used  roll  and  fry  it,  and  serve  it  with 
fried  sippets,  or  on  stewed  vegetables,  or  on  white  coUops. 

Scotch  CoUops. 

Cut  veal  into  thin  bits  about  three  inches  over,  and  rather 
round ;  beat  with  a  rolling-pin,  and  grate  a  little  nutmeg  over 
them ;  dip  into  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  and  fry  them  in  a  little 
butter  of  a  fine  brown:  pour  the  butter  off,  and  have  ready 
warm  to  pour  upon  them ;  half  a  pint  of  gravy,  a  little  bit  of 
butter  rubbed  into  a  little  fiour,  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  two  large 
spoonfuls  of  cream,  and  a  bit  of  salt.  Do  not  boil  the  sauce, 
but  stir  it  till  of  a  fine  thickness  to  serve  with  the  coUops. 

Veal  CoUops. 

Cut  long  thin  coUops;  beat  them  well;  and  lay  on  them  « 
bit  of  thin  bacon  of  the  same  size,  and  spread  forcemeat  on 
that,  seasoned  high,  and  also  a  little  garlic  and  cayenne.  Roll 
them  up  tight,  about  the  siae  of  two  fingers,  but  not  more  than 
two  or  three  inches  long ;  put  a  very  small  skewer  to  fasten 
each  firmly;  rub  egg  over;  fry  them  of  a  fine  brown,  and 
pour  a  rich  brown  gravy  over. 


V£At.  85 

To  dress  Coliaps  quick. 

Cttt  ihem  as  thin  as  paper  with  a  vety  sharp  knife,  and  in 
imall  bits.  Throw  the  skin,  and  any  odd  bits  of  the  veal, 
into  a  little  water,  with  a  dust  of  pepper  and  salt ;  set  theift  on 
the  fire  while  jou  beat  the  coUops ;  and  dip  them  into  a  season- 
ing of  herbs,  bread,  pepper,  salt,  and  a  scrape  of  nutmeg, 
bat  first  wet  them  in  tgg.  Then  put  a  bit  of  butter  into  a  fry- 
ing-pau,  and  give  the  collops  a  very  quick  fry  ;  for  as  they  are 
80  thin,  two  minutes  will  do  them  on  both  sides ;  put  them 
into  a  hot  dish  before  the  fire ;  then  strain  and  thicken  the 
S^^j  pve  it  a  boil  in  the  frying-pan,  and  pour  it  over  the 
coUops.     A  little  catsup  is  an  improvement 

Or,  fry  them  in  butter,  only  seasoned  with  salt  and  pep« 
per ;  then  simmer  them  in  gravy,  either  white  or  brown,  with 
bits  of  bacon  served  with  them. 

If  white,  add  lemon  peel  and  mace,  and  some  cream. 

To  dress  Scotch  CoUops  white. 

Cut  them  oflT  the  thick  part  of  a  leg  of  veal,  the  size  and 
thickness  of  a  crown  piece ;  put  a  lump  of  butter  into  a  tossing- 
pan,  and  set  it  over  a  slow  fire;  or  it  will  discolour  your  col- 
lops :  before  the  pan  is  hot,  lay  the  collops  in,  and  keep  turn- 
ing them  over  till  you  see  the  butter  is  turned  to  a  thick  white 
gravy ;  put  your  collops  and  gravy  in  a  pot,  and  set  them 
upon  the  hearth  to  keep  warm ;  put  cold  butter  again  into  your 
pan  every  time  you  fill  it,  and  fry  them  as  above,  and  so  con- 
tinue till  you  have  finished;  when  you  have  firied  them,  pour 
your  gravy  from  them  into  your  pan,  with  a  tea-spoonful  of 
lemon  pickle,  mushroom  catsup,  caper  liquor,  beaten  mace, 
cayenne  pepper,  and  salt ;  thicken  with  flour  and  butter ;  when 
it  has  boiled  five  minutes,  put  in  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  well  beat 
and  mixed,  with  a  tea-spoonful  of  rich  cream;  keep  shaking 
your  pan  over  the  fire  till  your  gravy  looks  of  a  fine  thickness, 
then  put  in  your  collops  and  shake  them ;  when  they  are  quite 
hot,  put  them  on  your  dish,  with  forcemeat  balls ;  strew  over 
them  pickled  mushrooms.     Garnish  with  barberries  and  kid- 
ney-beans. 

To  dress  Scotch  CoUops  broum. 

Cut  your  collops  the  same  way  as  the  white  ones,  but  browB  « 
your  butter  before  you  lay  in  your  collops;  firy  them  over  a 


9*  DOMESTIC  CPOKERT. 

quick  fire ;  shake  and  turn,  them,  and  i»ep  on  them  a  fine 
froth;  when thejjr  are  ft^ight,brown«  pat  them  into  »  pQt>  and 
fry  them  as  the  white  ones ;  when  you  have  fried  them  all 
brown,  pour  all  the  gravy  from  them  into  a  dean  tossing-pan^ 
with  half  a  pint  of  the  gravy  made  of  the  bones  and  bits  yax^ 
cut  the  coUops  off,  two  tea-spoonful  of  jeinon  pickle,  a  large 
one  of  catsup,  the  same  of  browning,  half  ai)  ounce  of  morels* 
Ealf  a  lemon,  a  little  anchovy,  cayenne  and  salt  te  ypur  taste; 
thicken  it  with  flour  and  butter;  let  it  boil  five  or  six  minutes; 
then  put  in  your  collops,  and  shake  them  over  the  fire ;  if  they 
boQ,  it  will  make  them  hard:  when  they  have  simmered  a  little, 
take  them  out  with  an  egg-spoon;  and  lay  them  on  yotft  dlbh ; 
strain  your  gravy,  and  pour  it  hot  on  them,  lay  ovei^  them 
forcemeat  balls,  and  little  slices  of  bacon  curled  round  a  sjcewer 
and  boiled ;  throw  a  few  mushrooms  over.  Garnish  with  lemon 
and  barberries,  and  serve  them  up. 

« 

To  drett  Scotch  Coilops  tie  Frenjch.wa^. 

Take  a  leg  of  veal,  and  cut  your  coilops  pretty  thick,  five 
or  six  indies  long,  and  three  inches'  broad ;  rub  them  over  with 
the  yolk  of  an  egg;  put  pepper  and  salt;  and  grate  a  little  nut- 
meg on  them,  and  a  little  shred  parsley;  lay  them  on  an 
earthen  dish,  and  set  them  before  the  fire ;  baste  them  wiUi 
butter,  and  let  them  be  a  fine  brown ;  then  turn  them  on  Che 
pther  side,  and  rub  them  As  above ;  baste  and  brown  it  thi6 
same  way ;  when  they  are  thoroughly  enough,  make  a  good 
brown  gravy  with  truffles  and  morels ;  dish  up  your  coilops,  lay  ' 
truffles  and  morels,  and  the  yolks  of  hard  boiled  eggs  over  ' 
them.     Garnish  with  cri^  parsley  and  lemon. 

To  boil  Calfs  Head. 

'  Clean  it  very  nicely>  and  soak  it  in  water,  that  it  may  look 
very  white ;  take  out  the  tongue  to  sal(,  and  the  brains  to  make 
a  little  dish.  Boil  the  head  extremely  tender ;  then  strew  it 
over  with  crumbs  and  ehopped  parsley,  and  brown  them; 
qr,  if  liked  better,  leave  one  side  plain.  Bacon  and  greens  are 
to  be  served  to  eat  with  it.  ' 

The  brains  must  be  boiled ;  and  then  mixed  with  melted 
butter,  scalded  sage  chopped,  pepper,  and  salt. 

K  any  of  the  head  is  left,  it  may  be  bashed  neat  xlagr*  and 
a  StfW  slioas  nf  bacan  just  wanned  and  pot  rouad. 


ColAcd^s  fc«w^«««  veil  if  g<iM» 

A  CJ^t  Head,  otu  htif  boiled,  ami  the  otker  kiAei. 

Qeuse  the. bead,  parboil  one  balf,  rub  it  o?er  tbe  bead  with 
a  feather  dipt  ia  the  beaten  yolk  of  an  egg.  Strew  over  it  a 
aeaiooiqg  of  pepper>  aalt,  tl^me,  paraley  chopped  small,  sbred 
lenM  jMel»  gAted  bread«  and  a  little  nutmeg ;  stick  bits  of 
bottdr  ovfr  it,  and  send  it  to  tbe  pven.  Boil  the  other  half 
in  a  white  cloth*  and  serve  them  both  in  one  dish*  Boil  the 
bninaiA  a. piece  of  ctean  c^oth»  with  a  very  Uttle  parsley,  andf 
a  leaf  or  two  of  sage.*  When  tb^y  are  boiled^  chop  them  small^ 
tnd  warm  them  up  in  a  sauce-pan,  with  a  bit  of  butter,  and  9t, 
little  pepper  and  salt.  Lay  the  tongue,  boiled  and  peeled,  in 
tbe  middle  of  a  smaftdiah^.ipA  tiM  btHilks  round  it ;  have  in 
^^miiftf  diabi.lHicoih  apd  pjckled  pork  ;i  m^  in  a  third*  gjptens 
iMicanrato  •'  .    •  i  .      .  „.,  ; .. . 

When  hftlf  boiledj  cut  off  the  meat  in  slices,  half  put  inch 
lUck,  and  two  or  three  inches  loqg :  brown  some  butter,  dour* 
ud  sliced  oni^n,  and  throw  in  the  slices  with  some  good  gravy* 
tniBcs,  and*  morels;  |tve  it  one  boil,  skim  it  well,  and  set  it  in 
a  Boderate  beat  to  simmef  till  very  tender.    . 

Season  witK  pepper,  salt»  and  cayenne>  at  first ;  and,  ten 
temates  'beforet  serving,  throw  in.  some  shred  parsley,  and  a 
Vtfy  small  bit  of  tarragon  and  knotted  marjoram  cut  as  fine  as 
|KABibk(  just  befor#iFoUaew^^  add  ilNI'squeexe  of  a  lemon. 
FefeGcfMWtbalUi^  ^  ItiijU oC  bacqa rolled fojond* 

OiV  bojl;the  :b€9Ml.al|Qo^t«aoiigbf  and  ^ko  tbe  meat  of  thi^ 
^  aide  aewMy  off  the  bone  with  ;a  sharp  knife ;  lay  this  into  a 
^paaB  dii^»  vaah  it  over  with  th6*  yolks  of  two  egga,  and  cover 
it  with  crtiohs*  a. ffiw  herbs  nicely  shred,  a  little  pepper  and. 
mlji^ited  a  grate  of  nutm^,  all  miiLcd  together  fiisL  Set  the . 
disk  before  the  fire,  #id  keep  tuning  it  now  and  then>  that  aU^ 
puts  of  tho  bead  may  be  eqpally  brown*  In  the  mean  tipnoii 
dice  the  remainder  of  the  head  and  the  toagfjie,  but  firsipji^e| 
the  toagooj;  .put  a  pint  of  gopd  gravy  into  a  pao^  fi(it^  an 
tNuon,  a  small  bunch  of  lierbs,  (consisting  of  parsley,  basil, 
savory,  tarragon,  knotted  mirjoimdi,  and  a  little  thyme,)  a 
Kttfe  sOtiaid  ciiftnvMv  aJriiiytetiiagl^MOfJlfevry,  lMid,a.little 
«!ili9r'liqmr.    Bail  tkii  foe  a  tfei^  ttirfUlM  tad  jt^trM^fi  11901^ 


aa  DOMESTIC  COOKBRT. 

the  meat,  which  should  be  dreAged  Witi  fllMM  iloiir.  Add 
some  fiANahroonit  either  frenh  or  pi^kled^  a  few  triilBet  wmI 
morels,  and  two  spoonsful  of  catsup;  then  beat  up  half  IIm 
brains,  and  put  this  to  the  rest,  with  a  bit  of  butter  and  flow* 
Simmer  the  whole. 

Beat  the  other  part  of  the  brains  with  shrad  lemon  ped»  a 
fiitle  nutmeg  anc|  mace,  some  parsley  shred,  and  an  e^,  Tlieft 
fry  it  In  littl^  cakes  of  a  beAutiful  yellow  brown.  Di^  some 
Qysters  into  the  yoke  of  an  egg,  and  do  the  same ;  and  also 
some  relishing  forcem^t  bidls,  made  as  for  ikkick  turtle* 
Garnish  with  these,  and  small  bits  of  baoon  jost  made  Iiot 
before  the  fire. 

V    >        :  Calf^9  Htai  fricMititi.  .  ; 

'  Clean  and  half-boil  half  a  head ;  tnt  the  riieat  into  snudi  Sili^; 
and  put  it  into  a  tosser,  with  a  little  gravy  made  of  die  l>eiien» 
some  of  the  water  it  was  boiled  ifi,  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs^ 
a|i  onion,,  and  a  blade  of  mace.  If  you  have  any  young  cock- 
rels  in  the  house,  use  the  cockscombs,  but  first  boil  them'  ten- 
der, and  blanch  them ;  or  a  ime^tbread  will  do  as  well.  Season 
die  gravy  mth  a  little  pepper,  ntitmeg,  and  salt ;  rub  dowir 
some  flour  and  butter,  and  giVe  all  a  boil  togethei*; 'then  tale 
out  the  herba  and  obion,  an^  add  %  little  cup  of  cream,  but  do 
not  boil'  it  in. 

Serve  with  smaO  bits  of  bacon  rolled  round,  and  btllk* 

* 

7b  eoHwr  Cutfw  Feaib 

Scald  the  skin  off  a  fine  head,  dean  it  nicely,  and  take'  out 
ihe  brains.  Boil  it  tender  enough  to  remove  thelMmes:  then 
have  ready  a  good  quantity  of  chopped  parsley,  mliee,  nntm^, 
salt,  <uid  white  pepper,  mixed  well :  season  It  high' with  these  r 
lay  the  parsley  in  a  thick  layer,  then  a  quantity  of  thick  altoesi 
*oY  fine  ham,  of  beautiful*coloured  tongue  skinned,  and  the» 
the  yolks  of  six  nice  yellow  eggs  stuck  here  and  there  abetit. 
Roll  the  head  quite  close,  and  tie  tt  up  as  tight  aa  yon  ean% 
Boil-  it,  and  them'lay  a  weight  on  it.  ' 

A  cloth  must  be  put  under  the  tape,  as  for  oAer  collars^ 

M0€k  Tmrtk. 
Bcmpeak  a  oalfs  head  with  the  dun  on,  eat  it  ia  half,  and 
flean  il  wdl:  than  haU-baa  H,  take  all  ttie  meat  off  in  s<|iiafe 


VBA&.'  *  89 


<9refnUv,  and  then.  p«t  in  the, head;  miH^'mW PlM^ai 
int  wine,  and   snmiiBr  it  till  the  meat  is  quite  tender. 


as 
two 
and 


rnKmnils  of  niunirooRf'tittsup^  andoite  or  soy.     Sq 
-imui^toai.  vJfhh   !iij£fti  ^.  tJMi: .ni I JK-I  ^.u^r  ..  i  •   ,    ^ 
me  jiHoe  of  a  lemon  jnto  tire.tareen.  and  poDf^  uie  soup  Upo* 

Mock  TwiHi  ptfur  uiaw^. 

ilf a  heap^  withqu^the  skjn  at  above:  when 

8  a  sauoB^ 
la  Benson*- 

w  wim  fried  onions,  n^bs,"  inace,  "and 'pepper.*^  \fkye*V^^j 
tVOOT.rareepx-palates  boiled  so  tender  as  toblancn/  drid  Ait 

.smdl  pieces  1,  to,  which  a  cow-heei, '  UKewisis^  eat  into 

*'<r.^^    F*'*^*'*  "riJjw  ^y .    ..    .'     'iv*  ^'^    '' •    •  ii'^L'^  ^  'i 
usees,  IS  a,  irreat  improvement.     Bro'wn  some  Duttef;  Hour, 
't*i)b  iTyi  ; Ti^r,  »  «u    ,*,   r      •   ,:  ••■  ».•  ;    j*"-    -  ,w«  iv    *       •  ^  *« 

and  onion,  nod  pour  the  sravy  to 'if;  then  add  the  metatis  i 
aooiQe,  and  ateW.     Half  a  nint  of  sherry »  afi   anchovy, 
spoonfuls  of  walnut  catsup,  tne  sam^  of  mushroom  catsup, 
soiQfi  cboppeil  herbs^as  before.  ,''* 

(^,  put  into  a  pan  a  knuckle  of  veal,  (wo  fihc  cow  neeiB, 
two  onions,  a  few\>«]^e9>'|fC|>ii{ip^\lfrnes  of  allspice,  nsace, 

.;ffMiJ.»^^iflff  .^f.^  JfiQ{<}Hn^Ir;  ,9W,;fee  iP^t.-ntf  f^et  into 

some;  and  serve  witft  ^«r^,^m!iii9r¥^}H^\fi:f\Hfmf^ 

This  is  a  very  easy  way,  and  the  disn  is  excellent. 
Or,  Slew  a  pound  aAl  «IaI!f^oll^cra|[^  of  mutton,  with  Arom 
%e«|rii|t#iif*iWtv*ta<ifuiu^l  tbm^ant  t^ie.iifroid^.'Witha 

4  N 


90*  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

liier  till  you  can  get  off  tfie  mekt  from  the  bones  in  prbpef  bit*/ 
Set  it  on  again  with  the  broth,  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  Madeira 
wine  or  sherry,  a  large  onion,  half  a  tea-spoonful  of  Cayenne 
pepper,  a  bit  of  lemon  peel,  two  anchovies,  some  sweet  herbs^ 
eighteen  oysters  cut  into' pieces  and  then  chopped  fine,  a  tea-* 
spoonful  of  salt,  a  little  nutmeg,  and  the  liquor  of  the  oysters ; 
cover  it  tight,  and  simmer  three  quarters  of  an  hour.  Serve 
with  forcemeat  balls,  and  hard  eggs  in  the  tureen. 

An  excellent  and  very  cheap  mock  turtle  may  be  made  of 
two  or  three  cow  heels  baked,  with  two  pounds  and  a  half  of 
gravy  beef,  herbs,  &c.  as  above,  with  cow  heels  and  veal. 

Lister's  mock  mock  ^Turtle. 
Line  the  bottom  of  a  stew-pan  that  will  hold'five  pints,  with 
an  ounce  of  nice  bacon,  or  ham,  a  pound  and  a  half  of  lean 
gravy  beef,  a  cow  heel,  the  inner  rind  of  a  quarter  of  a  carrot, 
a  sprig  of  lemon-thyme,  winter  savory,  three  times  the  qaan« 
tity  of  parsley,  a  few  green  leaves  of  sweet  basil,  and  two 
ahalots :  make  a  bundle  of  these,  and  tie  up  in  it  a  couple  of 
blades  of  mace;  put  in  a  large  onion,  with  four  cloves  stuck  in 
it,  twelve  corns  of  allspice,  the  same  of  black  pepper;  pour 
on  these  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  cold  water,  cover  your  stew- 
pan,  and  set  it  on  a  slow  fire  to  boil  gently  for  a  quarter  oi  an 
hour;  then,  for  fear  your  meat  should  catch,  take  off  the 
cover,  and  watch  it ;  and  when  it  has  got  a  good  brown  colour, 
fill  up  your  stew-pan  with  boiling  water,  and  let  it  simmer  very 
gently  for  two  hours ;  if  you  wish  to  have  the  full  benefit  of 
your  meat,,  only  stew  it  till  it  is  just  tender,  and  cut  it  mto 
mouthfuls,  and  put  it  into  your  soup.  Put  a  table^spoonful  of 
thickening  into  a  two  quart  stew-pan,  pour  to  it  a  ladleful  of 
your  gravy,  and  stir  it  quick  till  it  is  well  mixed,  pour  it  back 
into  the  stew-pan  where  your  gravy  is,  and  let  it  simmer  gently 
for  half  an  hour  longer,  then  strain  it  through  a  tammis  into  a 
gallon  stew-pan :  cut  the  cow  heel  into  pieces  about  an  inch 
square,  squeeze  through  a  sieve  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  a  table- 
spoonful  of  plain  browning,  the  same  of  mushroom  catsup,  ft 
tea-spaonful  of  salt,  half  a  tea-spoonful  of  ground  black  pepper^ 
as  ihuch  grated  nutmeg  as  will  lie  on  a  sixpence,  and  a  glass  of 
Madeira  or  sherry  wine ;  let  it  all  simmer  together  for  about 
half  ta  hour. 


VEAL.  &l 

To  dress  a  Midcalf*> 

Take  a  calf's  heart,  stuff  it  with  g6od  forcemeat,  and  send 
It  to  the  oven  in  an  earthen  dish,  with  a  little  water  under  it ; 
lay  batter  over  it,  and  dredge  it  with  flour;  boil  half  the  liver 
and  all  the  lights  together  half  an  hour,  then  chop  them  small, 
and  pat  them  in  a  tossing-pan,  with  a  pint  of  gravy,  one 
spooofal  of  lemon  pickle,  and  one  of  catsup ;  squeeze  in  half 
a  lemon,  pepper,  and  salt ;  thicken  with  a  gopd  piece  of  but- 
ter rolled  in  flour;  when  you  dish  it  up,  pour  the  minced 
meit  in  the  bottom,  and  have  ready  fried  a  fine  brown,  the 
other  half  of  the  liver  cut  in  thin  slices,  and  little  bits  of 
bacon ;  set  the  heart  in  the  middle,  and  lay  the  liver  and  bacon 
over  the  minced  meat,  and  serve  it  up. 

Calfs  Liter* 

Slice  it,  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  broil  nicely ;  rub 
a  bit  of  cold  butter  on  it,  and  serve  hot 

To  roast  Calf's  Liver. 

Wash,  and  wipe  it ;  then  cut  a  long  hole  in  it,  and  stuff 
it  with  crumbs  of  bread,  chopped  anchovy,  herbs,  a  good 
deal  of  fat  bacon,  onion,  salt,  pepper,  a  bit  of  butter,  and  an 
egg;  sew  the  liver  up ;  then  lard  it,  or  wrap  it  in  a  veal  caul, 
and  roast  it. 

Serve  with  good  brown  gravy,  and  currant  jelly. 

To  fry  Calfs  Liver  and  Bacon, 

Cut  the  liver  into  moderately  thin  slices,  and  fry  it  of  a  . 
nice  brown.     Then  fry  some  thin  slices  of  bacon,  lay  them 
upon  the  liver,  and  %erve  up  the  dish  with  a  little  gravy  added 
to  it,  and  crisped  parsley  laid  round  or  scattered  over  it. 

To  dress  the  Ldver  and  Lights. 

Half-boil  an  equal  quantity  of  each,  then  cut  them  m  a 
middling  sized  mince,  put  to  it  a  spoonful  or  two  of  the  water 
that  boiled  it,  a  bit  of  butter,  flour,  salt,  and  pepper :  simmer 
ten  minutes,  and  serve  hot 

To  roast  a  Calfs  Heart. 
Having  made  a  forcemeat  of  grated  bread,  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  beef  suet  chopped  small,  a  little  parsley,  sweet 


M  DOMESTIC  CPOKERY. 

maijoram,  and  lemon  pec^l^  mixed  up  with  a  little  white  pepper^ 
salt,  nutmeg, .  and  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  fill  the  heart  i^'iih  it, 
and  lay  a  veal  caul  over  the  stuflSng,  or  a  sheet  of  writing 
paper,  to  keep  it  in  its  place,  and  keep  turning  it  till  it  ii 
thoroughly  roasted.  Serve  with  good  gravy  under  it. 
N.B.  A  bullock's  heart  is  done  in  the  same  manner. 

To  fry  Calf  8  Brains. 

Cut  the  brains  into  four  pieces,  and  soak  them  in  broth 
and  white  wine,  with  two  slices  of  lemon  put  into  it,  a  little 
pepper  and  salt,  thyme,  laurel,  cloves,  parsley,  and  shalots. 
When  they  have  remained  in  this  about  half  an  hour,  take  them 
out  and  soak  them  in  batter  made  of  white  wine,  a  little  oil, 
and  a  little  salt,  and  fry  them  of  a  fine  colour.  You  may  like- 
wise strew  over  them  crui|ib9  of  bread  mixed  with  the  yolks 
of  egg^.  Serve  them  up  with  plain  melted  butt^,  and  garnish 
with  parsley. 

To  fricassee  Calps  Feet. 

Boil  your  feet ;  take  out  the  bones,  and  cut  the  meat  in  thin 
slices,  put  it  into  a  tossing-pan,  with  half  a  pint  of  good 
gravy  ;  boil  them  a  little,  and  then  put  in  a  few  morels,  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  lemon  pickle,  a  little  mushroom  powder,  or  pickled 
mushrooms,  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  boiled  hard,  and  a  little 
salt;  thicken  with  a  little  butter  rolled  in  flour  ;  mix  the  yolk 
of  an  egg  with  a  tea-cupful  of  good  cream,  and  half  a  nutmeg 
grated ;  put  it  in,  and  shak^  it  over  the  fire,  but  do  not  let  it 
boil,  it  will  curdle  the  milk.  Garnish  with  lemon  and  curled 
parsley. 

Stoeeihreads.       * 

Half-boil  them,  and  stew  them  in  a  white  gravy ;  add  creamy 
flour,  butter,  nutmeg,  salt,  and  white  pepper. 

Or  do  them  in  .brown  sauce  seasoned. 

Or  parboil  them,  and  then  cover  them  with  crumbs,  herbs, 
and  seasoning,  and  brown  them  in  a  Dutch  oven.  Serve  with 
butter,  and  mushroom  catsup,  or  gravy. 

To  roast  Sweetbreads. 
Parboil  two  large  ones ;  when  cold,  lard  them  with  b^con, 
and  roast  them  in  a  Dutch  oven.    For  ^auce,  plain  butter  and 
mushroom  catsup. 


VSMISOK.  (Btt 

Su^^bre^d  Ragout* 
CuttliiDl  Aaat  the  sise  of  a  w«liiut«  wash  wd  try  then^ 
tbenlry  dievi  pf  «  fip«  brpw^;  ipQurtoArsm.  a  gdaflgf«rjr» 
aeafloned  with  salt,  pepper,  allspice,  and  either  mushroaaaa,  or 
mushroom  catsup :  strain,  and  thicken  with  butter  and  a  little 
flour.    Yo«  may  add  truttes^  moiBls,  and  ■Mislirodmd, 

Kitlneyg. 

Chop  veal  kidney,  and  some  of  the  fiit  j  likewue  a  littik 
leek  or  onion,  pepper,  and  salt;  roll  it  np  wUb  aa  egg  into 
halls;,  and  fry  them* 


VENISON. 

To  keep  Venison. 

Venison  is  reckoned  the  choicest  meat. in  use,  and  is 
sftener  spoUed  than  any  other.  The  eooks  generally  get  the 
blane,  but  the  fault  lies  mostly  witih  tlie  pavk->keeper,  for  want 
of  preeaation  in  killing  them.  This  ought  to  be  done  as  soosi 
SB  it  is  day -light,  when  it  could  be  effected  immediately ;  fisv 
the  backs  always  herding  together,  and  when  first  they  ani 
loused,  standing  to  look  about  them,  the  keeper  being  ready 
on  the  spot,  would  be  enabled  to  take  a  sore  aim.  It  is  tmpos« 
aible  for  meat  to  keep  that  is  hunted  for  three,  four,  and  very 
often  five  hours,  which  is  too  often  the  case. 

The  haunch  is  the  finest  joint.  The  keeper  should  bring 
it  in  as  early  in  the  morning  after  killing  as  pos^ble.  There 
is  a  kernel  in  the  fat  the  same  as  a  leg  of  mutton,  that  should 
be  taken  ottt,  and  the  part  wiped  very  dry,  and  a  little  ground 
pepper  and  ginger  rubbed  on' the  inside,  which  will  keep  tht 
ffies  from  it ;  it  is  the  best  keeping  meat  of  any,  particularly 
if  what  is  mentioned  be  strictly  attended  to. 

The  neok  is  the  next  best  joint,  which  requires  nothing 
bot  wiping  it  well  with  a  clean  dry  doth. 

The  shoulder  and  breast  are  generally  used  in  two  or  Are* 
i«y«  Smp  a  pas^. 


04  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

The  keeper  in  general  draws  the  shoulder^  which  is  sure 
to  spoil  the  neck.  The  shoulder  should  not  be  taken  off  until 
quite  cold,  you  may  then  raise  it  the  same  as  a  shoulder  of 
mutton* 

I 

To  roast  a  HmiKch,  Neck,  or  Shoulder  of  Venison. . 

A  haunch  of  buck  will  take  three  hours  and  a  half,  or  three 
quarters,  roasting :  doe,  only  three  hours  and  a  quarter. 
Venison  should  be  rather  under  than  over  done. 

Spread  a  sheet  of  white  paper  with  butter,  and  put  it  over 
the  fat,  first  sprinkling  it  with  a  little  salt;  then  lay  a  coarse 
paste  on -strong  paper,  and  cover  the  venison  ;  tie  it  with  fine 
packthread,  and  set  it  a  distance  from  the  fire,  which  must  be 
a  good  one.  Baste  it  often ;  ten  minutes  before  serving  take 
off  the  paste,  draw  the  meat  nearer  the  fire,  and  baste  it.  with 
butter  and  a  good  deal  of  fiour,  to  make  it  froth  up  well. 

Grav\  for  it  should  be  put  into  a  boat,  and  not  into  the  dish, 
(unless  there  is  none  in  the  venison,)  and  made  thus :  Cut  off 
the  fat  from  two  or  three  pounds  of  a  loin  of  old  mutton,  and 
set  in  steaks  on  a  gridiron  for  a  few  minutes  just  to  brown  one 
side ;  put  them  into  a  sauce-pan  with  a  quart  of  water,  cover 
quite  close  for  an  hour,  and  simmer  it  gently ;  then  uncover  it, 
and  stew  till  the  gravy  is  reduced  to  a  pint.  Season  with  salt 
only.  Currant  jelly  sauce  must  be  served  in  a  boat,  which 
make  thus :  beat  some  currant  jelly  and  a  spoonful  or  two  of 
port  wine,  and  set  it  over  the  fire  till  melted.  Where  jelly 
runs  short,  put  more  wine,  and  a  few  lumps  of  sugar  to  the 
jelly,  and  melt  as  above.    Serve  with  French  beans. 

To  boil  a  Haunch  or  Neck  of  Venison. 

Having  let  it  lie  in  salt  for  a  week,  boil  it  in  a  doth  well 
floured ;  and  allow  a  quarter  of  an  hour*s  boiling  for  every 
pound  it  weighs.  For  sauce,  you  may  boil  some  cauliflowers, 
pulled  into  little  sprigs,  in  milk  and  water,  with  some  fine 
white  cabbage,  and  some  turnips  cut  in  dice ;  add  some  beet* 
root  cut  into  narrow  pieces,  about  an  inch  and  a  half  long,  and 
half  an  inch  thick.  Lay  a  sprig  of  cauliflower,  and  some  of 
the  turnips  mashed  with  some  cream  and  a  little  butter.  Let 
your  cabbage  be  boiled,  and  then  beat  in  a  sauce-pan  with  a 
apiece  of  butter  and  salt.    Lay  that  next  the  cauliflower,  then 


VEKISONr  95 

the  turnips^  then  the  cabbage,  and  so  on  till  the  dish  be  full. 
Place  the  beet-root  here  and  there,  according  to  your  taste. 
Have  a  little  melted  butter.  This  is  a  very  fine  dish,  and  looks 
very  pretty. 

The  haunch  or  neck,  thus  dressed,  eats  well  the  next  day 
hashed  with  gravy  and  sweet  sauce. 

To  stew  a  Shoulder  of  Venison. 

Let  the  meat  hang  till  you  judge  proper  to  dress  it;  then 
take  out  the  bone,  beat  the  meat  with  a  roUin^-pin,  lay  some 
slices  of  mutton  fat  that  have  lain  a  few  hours  in  a  little  port 
wine  fmong  it,  sprinkle  a  little  pepper  and  allspice  over  it  in 
fine  powder,  roll  it  up  tight,  and  tie  it.  Set  it  in  a  stew-pan 
that  will  only  just  hold  it,  with  some  mutton  or  beef  gravy 
not  strong,  half  a  pint  of  port  wine^  and  some  pepper  and  allr 
spice.  Simmer  it  close  covered,  and  as  slow  as  you  can,  for 
three  or  four  hours.  When  quite  tender,  take  off  the  tape, 
set  the  meat  on  a  dish,  and  strain  the  gravy  over  it.  Serve 
with  currant  jelly  sauce. 

This  is  the  best  way  to  dress  this  joint,  unless  it  is  very  fat, 
and  then  it  should  be  roasted.  The  bone  should  be  stewed 
with  it. 

To  fry  Venison. 

Bone  your  venison,  if  it  be  either  the  neck  or  breast ;  but 
if  it  be  the  shoulder,  the  meat  must  be  cut  off  the  bone  in 
slices.  Make  some  gravy  with  the  bones ;  then  take  the  meat 
and  fry  it  of  a  light  brown ;  take  it  up,  keep  it  hot  before  the 
fire.  Put  some  flour  to  the  butter  in  the  pan,  and  keep  stirring 
it  till  it  be  quite  thick  and  brown.  Take  care  it  does  not  bum. 
Stir  in  half  a  pound  of  fine  sugar  beat  to  powder,  put  in  the 
gravy  that  came  from  the  bones,  and  some  red  wine.  Make  it 
the  thickness  of  a  fine  cream ;  squeeze  in  the  juice  of  a  lemon» 
warm  the  venison  in  it,  put  it  in  a  dish,  and  pour  the  sauce 
over  it. 

Venison  Steaks,  plain  broiled. 

Cut  the  chops  from  the  fat  end  of  the  neck  ;  triui  them  the 
same  as  mutton  chops,  except  cutting  away  the  fat,  as  that  is 
reckoned  the  most  fiivourite  part;  do  not  put  them  on  the  grid* 


M  DOMBSTlC  COOKERY. 

iron  unttf  ottier  paits  of  (tie  dinner  is  dished  np ;  season  th^m 
^ith  wliite  pepper  and  salt;  have  the  dish  very  hot;  keej^ 
some  back  to  send  up  a  second  time ;  pttt  no  gravy  im  the  dish. 

To  hi^k  button. 

Slice  it  and  warm  it  with  its  own  grayy,  or  sonie  witJiout 
seasoning.  It  should  only  be  warmed  through,  not  boiled.  If 
there  is  no  fat  leJf^,  cut  some  slices  o^  mutton  fat,  set  it  on  the 
fire  with  a  little  port  wine  and  sugar,  simmer  till  dry  ;  then 
put  to  the  hash,  and  it  will  eat  as  well  as  the  fat  of  the  veni- 
son* 

To  pot  Venison. 

Rub  the  venison  with  vinegar,  if  stale,  and  let  it  lie  an 
hour ;  dry  it  with  a  cloth,  and  rub  it  all  over  with  red  wine  ; 
season  with  pepper,  salt,  and  beaten  mace,  and  put  it  on  an 
earthen  dish:  pour  over  it  half  a  pint  of  red  wine,  and  a 
pound  of  butter,  and  set  in  the  oven.  If  a  shoulder,  put  a 
coarse  paste  over  it,  and  bake  it  all  night  in  a  brown  bread 
oven.  When  it  comes  out,  pick  it  clean  from  the  bones,  and 
beat  it  in  a  marble  mortar,  with  the  fat  from  the  gravy.  If  not 
sufficiently  seasoned,  add  more  seasoning  and  clarified  butter, 
and  keep  beating  it  till  it  is  a  fine  paste.  Then  press  it  hard 
down  into  the  pots,  and  pour  clarified  butter  over  it. 

To  dress  a  Faum. 

A  fawn,  like  a  sucking  pig,  should  be  dressed  almost  as 
soon  as  killed.  When  very  yoUng.  it  is  trussed,  stuffed,  and 
spitted  the  same  way  as  a  hare.  But  they  are  better  eating 
when  of  the  size  of  a  house  lamb ;  and  are  then  roasted  in  quar- 
ters; the  hind  quarter  is  most  esteemed. 

They  must  be  put  down  to  a  very  quick  fire,  and  either 
basted  all  the  time  they  are  roasting,  or  be  covered  with  sheets 
of  fat  bacon :  when  done,  baste  it  with  butter,  and  dredge  it 
with  a  little  salt  and  flour,  till  you  make  a  nice  froth  on  it. 


TURTLE.  n 


TURTLE. 

^f  the  Turtle. 

1  HIS  fine  araphibioas  animal,  the  Testudo  Midas  of  Litinaeusy 
ftod  called  in  England  the  common  or  giant  turtle,  wliich  is  a 
native  of  the  West  Indies  and  South  America,  is  said  some- 
times to  attain  the  enormous  siae  of  three  yards  in  length,  and 
two  in  breadth,  weighing  from  five  to  eight  hundred  pounds. 
The  female  digs  holes  in  the  sand,  where  she  annually  deposits 
more  than  a  thousand  eggs;  on  which  she  broods  during  the 
night,  though  the  young  are  chiefly  hatched  by  the  sun.  Many 
of  these  eggs,  however,  become  a  prey  to  ravenous  birds,  ^c^ 
Turtles  are  Commonly  t^en,  while  on  land,  by  turning  them 
on  their  backs ;  or,  wheii  in  the  water,  pursuing  them  in 
boats,  and  killing  them  with  a  sort  of  spear  similar  to  what  is 
employed  for  harpooning  whales.  They  are  thus  hunted,  in 
both  their  elements,  chiefly  for  the  sake  of  their  highly-esteem- 
^  flesh,  which  certainly  constitutes  one  of  the  richest  and 
most  delicious  foods  in  nature. 

Genvifu  West-India  Method  of  Dressing  a  Turtle. 

Take  the  turtle  out  o£  the  water  the  night  before  it  is 
meant  to  be  dressed,  and  leave  it  on  its  back ;  next  mornings 
cat  off*  its  head,  and  hang  it  up  by  the  hind  (ins  for  all  the 
blood  to  drain  out.  This  being  accomplished,  cut  out  the  cal« 
lipee,  or  belly,  quite  round,  with  as  much  of  the  meat  to  it 
te  possible,  and  raise  it  up ;  it  must  then  be  thrown  into  spring 
^ster  and  salt.  The  bowels  and  lungs  being  now  cut  away,* 
^d  the  latter  washed  very  clean  fi-om  the  blood ;  the  former, 
^ith  the  maw,  being  slit  open,*  and  likewise  completely 
cleansed,  are  to  be  boiled  till  tender  in  a  large  pot  of  water.^ 
Then  take  off  the  inside  skin,  cut  it  in  pieces  of  two  or  three 
inches  long.  In  the  mean  while,  having  prepared  a  good  veal 
broth,  or  stock,  by  stewing  a  very  large  knuckle  of  veal  in 
^vee  gallcms  of  water,  with  turnips,  onions,  carrots,  celery, 
dnd  two  or  three  bundles  of  sweet  herbs,  till  half  the  liquid  is 
tasted,  carefully  scumming  all  the  time,  and  straining  it  ofl'^ 
F>t  the  fins  in^  a  8t0w*pan,  and  cover  them  witb  some  of  thi* 

4  o 


M  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

veal  stock :  adding  an  onion,  and  sweet  herbs  of  all  sorts,  tbe 
whole  chopped  fine  ;  with  half  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  each  of 
beaten  mace  and  cloves,  and  half  a  pounded  or  grated  nutm^. 
When  these  iiave  gently  stewed  till  tender,  they  are  to  be  taken 
out ;  and,  a  pint  of  Madeira  wine  being  poured  into  the  liquid, 
it  is  to  continue  sirtimering  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour.  The 
whites  of  six  eggs  beihg  now  beaten  up  with  the  juice  of  two 
lemons,  the  h'quor  is  to  be  added ;  and  the  whole  boiled  up, 
run  through  a  flannel  bag,  and  again  fnade  hot :  when  tbe  fins, 
having  been  washed  very  clean,  are  to  be  once  more  put  in. 
A  bit  of  butter  being  melted  at  the  bottom  of  a  stew-pan,  the 
white  meat,  or  callipee,  is  to  be  gently  dressed  till  nearly  ten* 
der.  The  lungs  aiid  heart  are  to  be  covered  with  veal  stock; 
additional  onion,  herbs,  and  spice ;  these,  as  well  as  the  fins, 
are  to  be  stewed  till  tender.  Take  out  the  lungs,  strain  the 
liquor  ofi^,  thicken  it,  and  put  in  a  bottle  of  Madeira,  with  a 
high  seasoning  of  salt  and  Cayenne  pepper.  Put  in  the  lungs 
and  white  meat,  and  stew  them  up  gently  for  a  quarter  of  an 
hour.  Make  some  forcemeat  balls  of  the  white  meat  of  the 
turtle,  instead  of  veal,  as  for  Scotch  coUops.  If  the  tiirtle 
have  any  eggs^  scald  them:  if  not,  take  twelve  large  yblks  of 
eggs,  made  into  egg  balls.  Have  the  callipash,  or  deep  sh^U, 
done  round  the  edges  with  paste ;  season  it,' on  the  inside,  wiA 
Cayenne  {Pepper,  salt,  and  a  little  Madeira  wine;  bake  it  half 
an  hour ;  and  then  put  in  the  lungs,  with  the  white  mekt, 
forcemeat,  and  eggs,  and  bake  it  another  half  hour.  Take 
the  bones,  and  tluree  quarts  of  the  veal  broth,  with  an  oniDil», 
a  bundle  of  sweet  herbs,  and  two  blades  of  beaten  maoe;  stew 
it  half  an  hour,  strain  it  through  a  sieve,  thicken  it  with  fiour 
and  butter,  add  half  a  pint  of  Madeira,  stew  it  half  an  hoar, 
and  season  it  to  palate  with  salt  and  Cayenne  pepper :  this  is 
the  true  turtle  soup.  Put  a  knife  between  the  meat  and  shell 
af  the  callipee,  and  fill  it  full  of  forcemeat;  season  it  all  over 
with  salt  and  Cayenne  peeper,  sweet  herbs,  a  shalot  chopped 
fine,  and  add  a  little  Madeira ;  put  a  paste  round  the  edge, 
and  bake  it  an  hour  and  a  half.  Take  the  entrails  and  piaw,' 
put  them  in  a  stew-pan  with  a  little  veal  broth  or  stock,  a 
bundle  of  sweet  herbs,  and  two  blades  of  finely-beaten  mace ; 
^hicken  with  a  little  butter  rolled  in  flour ;  stew  them  gently, 
for  half  an  hour ;  season  with  Cayenne  pepper  and  salt^  beat 


ijBpa.leason  ^illi  tlie  yo^ks  of  two  eggs, and  half  a. pint  of 
^•cream ;  put  it  in»  and  keep  stirring  it  one  way  till  it  boils  up. 
The  turtle,  being  thus  coi)[}|>letely  dressed,  is  to  be  sent  to 
table  in  the  following,  manner— ^t(  the  top,  the  callipee  or 
belly;  in  the  mid()le,  the  soup;  eoi  the  two,  sides  of  the  soup, 
.'the  fricassee  jtnd   the   fii|s ;  and,  at  the  bottom,   callipasb, 
.  -or  the  delicate  green  faU    The  fins,  if  put  by,  ii\  the  liquor,  are 
esteemed  excellent  eating  when  cold.     Though  this  process 
may  appear  somewhat  t^ious  and  even  conplicated,  ^t  is  to  be 
(Considered,  tliat  it  includes  the  entire  preparation  of  all  the 
^various  parls  of  a  large  animal;  pf  one,  too,,  on  which,  froqi 
its  superior  nature,  f^&tra)Drdinary  attentions  are  thought  to  be 
not  unworthily^  bestowed.  .The  aboye  is  the  general  method  of 
^dressing  JLurtl^  in  the  West  Indies ;  where,  certainly,  iliej^fi 
Js  themost  experiefice* 

Capital  Engtisk  M^hoi  of  dressing  a  Turtle. 

Though  turtles  are«  in  England,  almost  confined  to  grai)d 
;public  dinners,  and  coasequently  seldom  wanted  to  be  dress^ 
.in  private  families,  instances  are  kn^wn  to  have  sometime 
tKxurred,  where  persons,  receiving  turtles  as  presents  from 
friends  abroad,  have  been  constrained  to.  sell .  them  to  tavern- 
keepers,  for  whatever  trifle  they  might  thipk  proper  to  give, 
1  rather  than  inc{ir  the  extravagant  charge  required  by  profes- 
.^ional  cooks,  and  being  uninformed  how  to  dre^s  a  turtle  them- 
selves.   Indeed,  there  are  no  vast.nun)iber,  even  of  profession- 
al cooks  who  will   not  derive  additional  knowledge  from  fi 
.j)eru8al  of  the  following  instructions  for, dressing  and  serving 
up,  in  a  most  capitjri  style,  this  grand  oiyect  of  culinary  art ; 
called,  spmetiipes,  .by  co.oks,»  though  npt  very  classically,  the 
t^lng  of  fish!    The.  flesh  of  this  amphibious  animal,  for  we 
^an  scarc^y  venture  to  denominate  it  a  fish,  is  very  deservedly 
esteemed*;  particularly  the  belly,  or. under  part,  which  js  of  a 
.  delicate  white  cplofir  resembling  veal^  and  called  thet^allipee ; 
except,  indeedf.by  the.  genuine  amateur  of  epicurisni ;  to  whom 
the' delicious  green  fat,  or  callipash,  is.;5till  dearer  than  even 
'  the  callipee.    To  dress,  in  the  best  manner,  a  turtle  t)f  from 
sixty  to  seventy  pounds  weight,  the  size  in  which  they  arc 
iQost  generally  sent  as  presents  to  England,  these  familiar 
iustructious  will  .be  found  to  suffice,— Either  haDg-upt|ie  tur- 


tpO  DOMESTIC   CnoKERY. 

tie  by  tTie  hintl  fios  over  night,  aqd.cut  off  its  \\twi)  as  direcMI 
b^  tlie  West  India  JDethoU^.and  whicb  is  probably  the  hertr^ 
or,  put  a  wQigbt  on  tb^baokof  the  ^nlmaj  8tiffieie«t  to  make  .it 
extend  itself,  and  ioimediatety  cut  off  the  head  and  fins,    Jtt 
the  former  case\  the  aniToal  having  bled  freely,  abd  being  ttoW 
quite  dead^  and  deprived  only  of  its  headi  cut  the  belly  stMll 
clean  off,  sever  Jlie  fins  at  the  joints,  take  away  the  ivhole  cf 
the  white  meat,  and  put  it  into  spring  water.    Draw,  oleaos^* 
and  wash  all  the  entrails;  scald  the  fins,  the  hea4»  and  the 
belly  shell ;  and  saw  the  shell  all  rocuid  aboat^two  inches  dee|/» 
scald  it,  and  clit  it  in  pieces  :  put  the  shell,  with  tbeiibs  and 
head,  into  apot,  covering  them  with  veal  broth  or  sljoek^  abd  add* 
iug  shatots,  thyme^  savory,  marjoram,  parsle^^asmiall.quaiitBtjr 
of  basil,  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  e&chof  cloves  and  mac^j  andfailii^ 
meg ;  the  herbs  all  chopped  or  minced,  and  tlie.  spieea  ^ountf- 
cd,  verf  finf.  .After  stewing  them  till  tendec*  ^ak^  =  4>ut  tbe 
meat)  and  strain  the  liquor  through  a  sieve*     Ctit  the  fins,ii| 
two  or  three  pieces;  take  alt  the  brawn,  as  this  ment  i^  cabled, 
fromthe  bones  and  cut  it  in  pieces  about  two  inches  equar#; 
and,  if  there  be  a  real  green  fat,  cut  that  also  in  pieeea.  iMelt 
jsonie  butter  at  the  bottom  of  a  stew  pan,  put  it  film  Uriule 
meat,  and  siran^er  it  gently  over  &  slow  Are  tilt  tbre^  purUt 
done :  take  it  out  of  tlie  liquor,  and  cot  it  in  pie4^s  «^Qntl}|» 
f)igness  of  a  goose*s  egg.    In  the  mean  time,  cover  the  bowela^ 
fungs,  heart,  &c.  with  veal  stock  or  broth,  adding  herbn  'and 
spices  as  before,  and  stew  them  till  tender.    The  iif\'er  f^u^t-Be 
'boiled'  atways.  by  itself;  being  often  bitter,  potwithstandia^ 
every  precaution^  and  uot  tending  to  improve  the  ooromrof  Ite 
other  entrailq,  which  should  be  kept  a^  white  as  possible.!  •  TM 
entrails  being  all  don^e,  taken  up,  and  cut  m  pieces^,  fitmia^itf 
the  liquor  through  a  sieve.     Melt  a  pound  of  butter  in  a  large 
stew-pan,  big  enough  to ' hold  the  ftieati  gradual!^ birring  in 
half  a  ^ound  of  flopr,  till*  they  aYe  tfmeothly  nnitecH;  tbe^  put 
in  the  liquor,  and  keep  stirring  the  whole  till  thoroughly  in- 
corporated.    Shonld  it  prove  at  aUlitmpy,dt>miret  be  parsed 
through  a  sieve. .  In  the  different  sor|^of  meats' are  to  be  intro- 
duced a  great  number  of  forcemeat  balk,  av  well  as  egf  bcill%, 
and  even  the  turtle's  eggs,  fifhonld  there  be  any.    1V>  the  whofe 
must  be  added  three  pints  of  Madeira  wine^  a  high  seasoning 
of  long  and  Cayenne  peppers,  with  salt,  and  the  jnitiftrof  i^ 


ttrRTLK.  *  1«1 

ttmfieat  lemons.    The  <!c^p  shell  shodld  be  baled,  whether 

fined  or  not,  at  the  same  ime^,  but  if  not,  the  meat  must  be 

flther  bMwned  iri  the  bten  or  ^*th  a  hbt  ironl     T^e'sheTl  or 

iHellr  being  tbns  fiHed,  the  rest  is  tobe  tfer^ed  upmtureen^I 

In  tiUuigU(^  the  shells  and  tur^ns,  a  littfe  f^t'sboufd  always  1^ 

pkioed  at  tbfe  bottom,  the  li^an  in  the  cfenfre,  and  egg  and 

forcemeat-baits  with  part  6f  the  entrails  on  th^  fop.  '  Wfeere, 

fwm  the  Tftst  quantity  of  green  fkt,  or  fbr  any  other  reason,  a 

gtftnd  calKpttsh'is  required  to  be  separately  served  up,  the 

kpgt  sbeU  shonM  havfe  an  omamented  rtifsed  crost  covefino-, 

pasted  roiiAdi  lAe  sides  as  well  as  on  the  top,  glazed  with  eo-g, 

iiiiAklked>ri»  wMdi  It'  should  be  plaiced  with  the  soup,  eg^ 

Wb,Mft(^lf  like  the  meat  itathe  tureeiis.  '  A  cattipee,  too,  may 

besepanitl!ty9ehred  npin  a  siihilar  grand  style,  by  first  scaldl- 

ilig'afew'pMnds  of  th^  under  part,  tben  takfng  out  the  shout- 

ft^,<ttiid  Wen  sttffBn^the  cavity  with  its  own  highly  seasoned 

hrcHaedi ;  sfcwiirgf'it  5n  good  gravy  or  stock,  With  a' pint  of 

Madeira, 'fhe'jniee  of  a letnon,  some  sweet  herbs,  shatots^  a 

ck>f eof  gaifte-,  soriie  spices,  Cayenni^  peppei*,  and  salt  When 

Hesriy  dofie  pot  the!  meat  into  dnoflhcr  steW-p'an,  with  some  olf 

tbe^boikd  cntmUs'and  egg  bdlls,-'  adding  a  little  thickening 

•f'flour'akid  butter  to  the  liquor,  boil  it  up  a'littTe,  strain  it  in^ 

dd^  «W?w  the'  %hote  till  the  meat  is  tender,  and  the  liquor 

B^Hy<  Vended  \o  a  jelly.     It  may  then  be  served  iip  either  iii 

MmUmAP  lihell,  ot  a  deep  disK,   ortiaftien tally  pasted  round^ 

eoif^f^  and  bak^d,  exactly  in  the  S^ame  manner  as'the  callipash ' 

lAde«il,'Smne  'bf  the  ablest  qooks  prefer  a  dish  to  (he  shell 

Mr  botii' callipash  and  callipee.     CustonV  however,  leads  the 

<f  kure-t^  lexpect  part  of  his  principal  treat  in  its  own  shell  • 

MKMigll/certainljr,  4t  is  often  badly  baked. 


J 


.;  Though  the  foii3|^o«af^  instruettons  contain  the  ia6it  grand 
«id:fii«faiosabietBt^le  of  dressing  aM  serving  a  turtle,  the 
foilowini^  olddreeeipti  fitoiti  a'  vahiable  manuscript  collection, 
fenaesly  beloDglngttor  theCoutftess  Dowager  of -Shaftesbury, 
■myt  serve  to  assist  tbl»e  who  wootd  wish  to  dress  it  well  with- 
dBftaoy'Vimecessary  parade,  trouble,  or  expence— Put  a  weight 
of  any  sort  on  the  bach  of  tb^  turtle,  just  enough  to  make  it 
oteiid  itsclfi   and  unmcdiately  out  off  the  head  and  fina. 


i02  DOMltStlC  GOOKl^ltf . 

» 

')Vhefl it  hasil>led  .freely,  and  is  quite  clead,  scale  it  tiU  ibe 
outside  skin  is  all  cotue  off ;  and  then,  cutting  the  turtle  opea 
.all  round  where  the  upper  i^nd  lower  shells  join^  reserve  the 
f'deep  part)  which  is  the  uppermost,  for  baking  the  rest  of 
the  turtle  as  soon  as  it  is  properly  prepared.     In  ordler  to  do 
<this»  first  make  a  very  savoury  forcemeat,  with  scraped  veal, 
anchovies,  long  or  white  peppe^^  mace,  nutmegs  salt.  smaS 
.x>nions.  >l^a!rslc^,  street  maljorata).  yoiks  of  eggS)  and  grated 
f lemon  peel.  These  tespCK^tive  ingredients  are  to  be  proportioa* 
•«d  to  thetasti^^  the  party,  and  the  wh^le  quantity  must  be 
:^egulated  bytfae'size  of  the  turtle.    Part  of  theliver^  lights 
»x>rlung»i  «»1  W^eils.  of  the  turtle  when  properly  cleansed 
.land  scalded* '4Bre  to:  be  moety  minced  and; incorporated  amoBg 
ftbe  above  articles,  in  making  Iheforcemeirt  with  as  much  goo{d 
itnountaiuv^^rinFeas  will  r«:ider  it  palataUe  and  lielp  the  gravy, 
^hen  stifft  the  fish  that  cleaves  to  tlie  deep  shell  with  some  of 
Ahe  forcemeat,  and  make  the  rest  of  h  into  long  ^and  rouQ4 
.  Bavoury  balls,  tsdtingxsare  that  they  ateffar  more  higMy  season- 
»«d  than  forcemeat  jui*gener9l.  Make  a  paste  cf(  flout  and  water, 
and  put  it  ovettbe-'shell.  las  well  as  toAhe  hoUow  part  whic^ 
.the  throat  of  the  tinimal«>occupied^  to  keep  in  the  gravy  while 
it  Is  stewing  in  the  oveq-;  as  it  must  do,  for  two  hours  or  more. 
according  totheisiase  of  the  turtle.    Before  sending  it  to  ha 
baked.  A  little  clear  veal  botth  nPMt  be  put  in^  the  better  to 
i^raw  the  gravy  out  of  Ure  turtle.    All  this  being  done,  cut 
the  soft  part  of  the  turtle  s  shell,  with  th&  flesh  whiph  belongs 
to  it.  into  handsome  pieces,  and  ptew  them  over  a  clear  cbar-> 
.  coal  fire,  with  some  of  the  fins,  liver,  and  bowels ;  and  season 
them  high,  as  before  directed.    When,  they  are  stewed  quite 
slender,  and  the  other  pariof< the  turtle  is  returned ^ from  the 
oven,  mil  them  all  together  into  the  deep  shell ;  and.  garnish- 
X  ingthe  dvdb  wdth  the  £ns.  batd  yoiks  of.  eggs,  forcemeat  balls. 
:  and  small  patties  made  with  some  of  the  forcenteat.  send  it  to 
'table.    If  the  liquor  be  not  quite  rich  enough  on  coming  fnna 
.  the  oven^  addaufficient  Indian  soy  to  suit  the  palate,  j  ust  before 
serving  It  up.    This  receipt,  with  the  best  West  Indian,  and 
English  methods^  will  together  enable  any  person,  who  pos- 
sesses a  tolerable  skill  in  cookery,  to  dress  a  turtle  of  any  mag^ 
.  I^itude.  either,  in  the  plaineiit  or  wost  c«ipital  style. 


PORK. 

Preliminary  Observations.  '  "    •    . 

•  '     '  •     ♦  <  I 

Hogs  are  kept  to  a  larger  size  than/  porkenii  and  tote  aibo 
differendy  cut  up.  The  chine  cr  .baqk-bdne  n  cnt  down  ooeach 
tide,  the  whole  length,  and  is  a  primr  pan  either  boiled  or 
roasted. 

The  tides  of  the  hog  are  made  into  haeon,  and  the  inside' 
it  cut  out  with  very  littte  meat  to  die  bone.  On  eadh  side  there 
i8alsi^'q»re«rib;'Which  is  MuaUy  divided  into  lvo>  one 
tweel'bone  and  a  blade*bone.  The  baoon  it  the  whole  oottide, 
and  contains  a  fore-leg  and  a  ham^  or  the  hind^eg ;  but  if  left 
with  the  bacon,  it  is  odled  a  gaoMiion.  There  are  a]s4»  gvisN 
kintt  Hog's  lard  is  the  inner  fat  of  the  baeon-faog.  PiriJed 
pork  is  made  of  the  flesh  of  the  bogj  at>  well  as  baeen.    -^      ( 

Porkers  are  not  to  old  as -hogs;  their  flesh  is  whiter- and 
leit  rich,  bel  it  is  not  so  tender.  It  is  divided  intafbnr  ^uluv 
teitw  Tbe  fore*qnarter  has  the  spring  or  foie-leg,  the  tee- 
kxie  or  neck, '  the  ^Mure-rib  and  griskin.  The  hind  has  tbe  leg 
and'theloiii.  Pigs'  feet  make  various  good  dishes^  and  should 
becut  off  before  the  legs  are  cured.  Observe  the  same  of  the 
ears.  The  bacon*hog  is  sometimes  scalded  to  take  off  the  haif , 
and  sometimes  singed.    The  porker  is  always  scalded. 

Porki^ould  be  kept  well  wiped,  and  the  parts  that  are  in- 
tended for  roasting  should  always  be  sprinkled  with  salt,  before 
they  ate  pat  -  down.  The  difference  that  this  makes  in  die 
tavottr  is  surprising. 

N.  B.  In  cooking  povk,  take  particulav  cdre  it  be  done 
enough ;  ether  useate  underdone  ave  unpltesaAt,'  but  pork  is 
sbtolately  intea^aMr. 

Tor^a^ajjeg^  Pork, 

Choose  a  small  legof  fine  young'  perk:*  cut  a  slit  in  tbe 
knuckle  with  a  sharp  knife  ;  and  fiU  the  space  with  a^e  and 
onion  chopped,  and  a  little  pepper  and'tak.  iWhea  half-Jdenb, 
score  the  skin  in  slices,  but  do  not  cut  deeper  than  the  outer 
rind. 

Apple^sauee  and  potatoes  should  be  served  to  eat  with  it. 


i04  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

Leg  of  Park  roasted  without  the  Skin,  called  Mock  Goose* 

Parboil  it,  take  off  the  skin,  and  then  put  it  down  to  roast; 
baste  it  with  butter,  and  make  a  savoury  powder  of  finely 
minced,  or  dried  ^nd  powdered  aage,  ground  black  pepper, 
salt,  and  some  bread  crumbs,  rubbed  together  through  a  cul« 
lender :  you  may  add  to  this  a  little  very  finely  minced  oni^n  ; 
sprittkle  it  with  this  when  it  is  almost  roasted  ;  put  half  a  pint 
of  made  gravy  into  the  dish,  and  goose  stuffing  under  the 
knuckle  skin,  or  garnish  the  dish  with  balls  of  it  fried  ot 
boiled. 

To  bail  a  Leg  of  Pork. 

Salt  it  eight  or  ten  days :  when  it  is  to  be  dressed,  let  it  lie 
half  an  hour  in  cold  water  to  make  it  white :  weigh  it,  and 
allow  a  quarter  of  an  hour  for  every  pound,  and  half  an  hour 
over,  from  the  time  it  boils  up:  skim  it  as  soon  as  it  boils,  and 
frequently  after.  Allow  water  enough.  Save  some  of  it  to 
make  peas  soup.  Some  boil  it  in  a  very  nice  doth,  floured ; 
which  gives  tlie  pork  a  very  delicate  look.  It  should  be  small 
and  of  a  fine  grain. 

Serve  peas-pudding  and  turnips  with  it. 

To  boil  a  Leg  of  Pork  another  way. 

When  you  cook  a  leg,  wash  and  scrape  it  as  dean  as  po8« 
sible ;  take  care  it  does  not  boil  fast ;  if  it  does,  the  knuckle 
will  brefJc  to  pieces  before  the  thick  part  of  the  meat  is  warm 
through :  a  leg  of  seven  pounds  takes  nearly  three  hours  very 
slow  simmering.  Skim  your  pot  very  carefully,  and  when  you 
take  the  meat  out  of  the  boiler,  scrape  it  dean. 

Some  cooks,  when  pork  is  boiled,  score  it  in  diamonds,  and 
take  out  every  other  square,  and  thus  present  a  retainer  to  the 
eye  to  plead  for  them  to  the  palate ;  a  leg  of  nice  pork,  nicely 
salted,  and  nicely  boiled,  is  as  favourite  a  cold  relish  as  cold 
ham,  especially  if,  instead  of  cutting  into  the  middle  when 
hot,  and  so  letting  out  its  juices,  you  cut  it  at  th^  knuckle. 

Observe. — If  it  is  not  done  enough,  nothing  is  more  dis« 
agreeable ;  if  too  much,  it  not  only  loses  its  colour  fmd  flavour^ 
but  its  substances  become  sofl,  like  a  jelly. 


YOtLK.  106 

Linn  and  Neck  if  Park. 

Roast  these  joints.  Cut  the  skin  of  the  loin  across,  at  dis- 
tances of  half  an  inch,  with  a  sharp  penknife. 

To  roa$t  a  collared  Neck  of  Pork. 

Let  the  meat  be  boned,  then  strew  the  inside  pretty  wdl 
with  bread  crumbs^  chopped  sage^  a  very  little  beaten  allspice, 
some  pepper  and  salt,  all  mixed  together.  Roll  it  np  very 
clo8e,%ind  it  tight,  and  roast  it  gently.  An  hour  and  a  half, 
or  a  little  more,  according  to  the  thickness,  will  roast  it 
enough. 

A  loin  of  pork  with  the  fat  and  kidney  taken  out  and 
boned,  and  a  spring  of  pork  boned,  are  very  nice  dressed  in 
the  lame  way.  . 

Shoulders  and  Breatii  of  Pork. 

Pat  them  into  pickle,  or  salt  the  shoulder  as  a  leg :  when 
re7  nice,  they  may  be  roasted. 

Spring  or  Forehand  of  Pork. 

Cat  out  the  bone ;  sprinkle  salt,  pepper,  and  dried  eage, 
over  the  inside ;  bat  first  warm  a  little  butter  to  baste  it,  and 
then  flour  it;  roll  the  pork  tight,  and  tie  it;  then  z^oaat  by  a 
hanging  ja^.     About  two  hours  will  do  it. 

A  Chine  of  Pork. 

If  this  piece  be  parted  down  the  back-bone,  so  asto  have 
hot  one  side,  a  good  fire  will  roast  it  in  two  hours ;  if  not 
parted,  three  hours. 

N.  B.  Chines  are  usually  salted  and  boiled. 

Spare-Rib. 

There  is  generally  so  little  meat  on  a  8pare»rib»  that  if  yoa 
have  a  large  fierce  fire,  it  will  be  burnt  before  it  is  warm 
thnragh;  joint  it  nicely,  and  crack  the  ribs  across  as  yba  do 
ribs  of  lamb. 

When  you  put  it  down  to  roast,  lay  the  tbidL  end  nearest 
to  the  fire ;  doat  on  some  flour,  and  baste  it  with  a  little  but- 
ter; dry  a  doMn  sage  leaves,  and  rub  them  through  a  hair 
neve,  and  put  them  into  the  top  of  a  pepper-box,  and  about  a 

4  » 


quarter  of  an  hour  b^CMre  the  nMlkdotie;  baste  it  with  batter^ 
and  dust  in  the  polverised  aage. 

Make  it  a  general  .rule  never  to  pour  gravy  over  any  thinnf 
that  IS  roasted ;  by  so  doings  the  dredging^  &c.  is  washed  off, 
and  it  eats  inai{^id* 

Some  people  carve  «  qMire«rib  by  cutting  out  in  slices  the 
thick  part  at  the  bottom  of  the  bones:  when  this  meat  is  cut 
away,  the  bones  may  be  easily  separated^  and  are  esteemed 
very  sweet  picking.  S^ 

Park  GrUkin. 

This  is  usually  very  hard;  the  best  way  to  prevent  which, 
14  to  put  it  into  as  ipuch  cold  water  as  will  cover  it,  and  let  it 
boil  up ;  then  instantly  take  it  off,  and  put  it  into  a  Dutch 
oven ;  a  very  few  minutes  will  do  it.  Remember  to  rub  but- 
ted over  it,  and  flout  i^  before  you  put  it  to  the  fire. 

Blade^bone  qf  Park* 

'  This  piece  is  taken  from  the  bacon-hog;  the  less  meat  left 

on  it,  in  moderation,  the  belter.     It  is  to  be  broiled ;  and  when 

just  done,  piffiered  and  salted.    Put  to  it  a  piece  of  batter, 

and  a  tea#«poQirfiil  of  mustard;  attd  serve  it  covered,  qoidi^. 

This  is  a  Somersetshire  dish. 

•  •  • 

To  dr€89  Park  as  Lamb. 

For  this  purpose  take  a  yisnng  pig  of  four  or  five  months 
old;  cut  up  the  forb-^uarlef  for  reasti^g  as  you  do  lasnb,  and 
trass  the  shank  close.  The  other  parts  will  make  delicaie 
pidcled  pork;  or  steaks,  pies,  &c. 

To  broil  Park  Steaks. 

Cut  your  steaks  off  the  neek  or  loin,  about  half  an  inch 
tfuek«  When  your  gridiron  is  heC;  rub  it  with  fireA  suev  Isy 
on  your  steaks,  and  keep  tturning  them  as  quieh  as  possible:  if 
3^  do  not  take  great  save,  the  fat  that  drops  from  them  iaie 
the  fire  will  smoke  and  spoil  them  ;  but  this  may  be  in  S  g^eat 
ssessuse  .prsvented,  fay  placing  your  geidiras  on  aslsiil*  When 
thiey  sre  enough,  pat  a  ittfe  good  giwry  to  them;  sad  m 
si«ter  ia  five  then  an  sgreesUe  flsspoar,  «lMw<o««r  a  link  99ga 
ibtsd  *«ery  fi^Sb    Xhe  only  ssoce  is  mnstanL 


»  piekk  P9rk. 
Hflt^  and  pound  fine,  €imt  ounors  «f  «a)tpetie,  «  pound  cf 
Mttve  sugary  «n  oanceof  «al-pninel»  and  a  IHde  conmdn  «iit  s 
flprMk  the  poi4c  with  «dt,  and  drain  it  tw«nty^in^  houn : 
then  nilMnth  Aeabove ;  fiack  tbe  ptecea  tight  In  attniA  deep 
tab,  filling  up  the  spaces  with  common  salt  PUce  large  peb- 
bles on  the  porky  to  prevent  St  from  swimming  in  the  pickle 
wbiefa  tfaesdt  i«^  produce.  If  kept  from  air,  ft  w31  centtntte 
WjW^jbr  trwo  years* 


To  flMir  Smu^€0* 

duip  4ft  «nd  lean  pofktofeCher;  aeaaon.it  widi  sage,  pep*- 
per,  and  salt,  and  you  may  add  two  or.tibee  beniea  «f  «tt«- 
^ce :  half  fill  hog's  guts  that  have  been  soaked  and  made  ex- 
tremely dean ;  or  theineatisniybe  kept  in  a  very  small  pan 
ckielif  wavered;  and  so  loHed  and  dusted  with  «  very  little 
iearheftm  4t  m  Med.  They  mnat  be  pricked  wilh  a  feiii 
bdbie«key  «re  4n6sedy  *at  tikej  will  bmnt. 

6tfpre  en^ifowedTed  cabbage;  or  toash  potatoes  put  m  « 
faai,  troiaqi  whk  asdaoiandery  and  ganiidh  wilih  ithedbove. 

Ih  mmke  Sammgm  mioAer  nmiff. 

3Wae  Ate  gmertHy  tbade  from  tlie  trimmings  t^  the  haaae 
ud  different  parts  of  the  pig  ;  the  Alt  and  kan  aliould  be  <£ 
ail  equal  quantity ;  it  should  be  first  cut  fine  with*  a  knife,  and 
ill  the  sinews  carefully  i^en  out,  liien  finish  chopping  with  a 
dnpping  iBRilb;  wim  .verjr  fine,  aeaaon  it  with  pepper  and 
Mk,  tt  lillle  (fine  apsoe^  and  a«me'Choppediage:  the  sage  aboald 
be  dtopped  fMWtiDulaiiy  fine:  wben  adl  are  weM  miiied,  put  the 
Mat  in  akins<«hr  pcM:  if  in  pels  ft  should  be  pvessed  down  very 
tight,  and  a  little  pepper  and  salt  sprinkled  overtiietop;  the  pole 
are  the  handiest  for  family  use,  as  it  will  keep  longer;  when 
wanted,  roll  them  up  and  fry 'them  in  clarified  butter. 

A%  tmuUmt  Sm»mge4o^aa  wU. 

<Beaaon  ikt  ^«nd  kan  pevk  wi|h  aome  salt,  aaltpettfe,  'blaek 
fKpper,'asd»allBpfoe,  all  in  fine  powd«r,  «nd  v«b  into  the  meat ; 
the  sixth  day  fiat  <it«nall;  and  nm  with  it  some  ^led  shalot 
^t  gatific,  wAnewi possible.  ilaiy«  'ready  ^n  oX'-gut  that  ^bas 
l>een  scoured,  salted,  and  soaked  well,  and  fill  it  with  th^ 


108  DOMESTIC  COOKBRT. 

above  stuffing ;  tie  up  the  ends,  and  hang  it  to  smoke  as  yon 
would  hams^  but  first  wrap  it  in  a  fold  or  two  of  old  an^slin. 
It  must  be  high-dried  Some  eat  it  without  boiling,  but  others 
like  it  boiled  first  The  skin  should  be  tied  in  difierent  places, 
so  as  to  make  each  link  about  eight  or  nine  inches  long.' 

To  fry  Sausages, 

Cut  them  in  single  links,  and  fry  them  in  ftesh  butter ; 
then  take  a  slice  of  bread,  and  fry  it  a  good  brown  in  the  but- 
ter  you  fried  the  sausages  in,  and  lay  it  in  the  bottom  of  your 
dish ;  put  the  sausages  on  the  toast,  in  four  parte,  and  lay 
poached  eggs  betwixt  them ;  pour  a  little  good  melted  butter 
round  them^  and  serve  them  up. 

Bologna  Sausages. 

Take  a  pound  of  beef  suet,  a  pound  of  pork,  a  pound  of 
bacon,  fat  and  lean  together,  and  the  same  quantity  of  beef 
and  veal.  Cut  them  small,  and  chop  them  fine.  Take  a  small 
handful  of  sage,  pick  off  the  leaves,  and  chop  them  fine  with 
a  few  sweet  herbs.  Season  pretty  high  with  pepper  and  salt 
Take  a  large  gut  well  cleaned,  and  fill  it  Set  on  a  saucepan 
of  water,  and  when  it  boils,  pu)  it  in,  having  first  pricked  the 
gut  to  prevent  ite  bursting.  Boil  it  gently  an  hour,  and  then 
lay  it  on  clean  straw  to  dry. 

Oxfin^d  Sausages. 

Chop  a  pound  and  a  half  of  pork,  and  the  same  of  veal, 
cleared  of  skin  and  sinews  ;  add  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of 
beef-suet;  mince  and  mix  them ;  steep  the^crumbs  of  a  penny 
loaf  in  water,  and  mix  it  with  the  meat,  with  also  a  litde  dried 
sage,  pepper,  and  salt. 

SavalMfs. 

Take  three  pounds  of  young  pork,  free  from  bone  and 
skin ;  salt  it  with  one  ounce  of  saltpetre,  and  a  pound  of  com- 
mon salt,  for  two  days:  chop  it  fine,  put  in  three  tea-spoonfuls 
of  pepper,  a  dozen  sage  leaves  chopped  fine,  and  a  pound  of 
grated  bread ;  mix  it  well,  fill  the  guts^^lnd  bake  them  half 
an  hour  in  a  slack  oven:  they  are  good  eidier  hot  er  cold. 


PORIt.  109 

To  itMa  Sucking  Pig. 

The  moment  the  pig  is  killed^  put  it  into  cold  water  for  a 
few  minotes;  then  rub  it  over  with  a  little  resin  beaten  ex- 
tremely amaU,  and  pot  it  into  a  pail  of  scalding  water  half  a 
minute ;  take  it  out»  lay  it  on  a  table^  and  pull  off  the  hair  aa 
quickly  as  poaaible ;  if  any  part  does  not  come  off,  put  it  in 
again.  When  quite  clean,  waah  it  wdl  with  warm  water,  and 
then  in  two  or  three  cold  waters,  that  no  flavour  of  the  redn 
may  remain.  Takeoff  all  the  feet  at  the  first  joint;  make  a 
dit  down  the  belly,  and  take  out  the  entrails:  put  the  liver, 
heart,  and  lights,  to  the  feet  Wash  the  pig  well  in  cold  water, 
dry  it  thoroughly,  and  fold  it  in  a  wet  cloth  to  keep  it  firom 
the  air. 

To  rooit  a  Sucking  Pig. 

If  you  can  get  it  wlken  just  killed,  this  is  of  great  advan- 
tage. Let  it  be  scalded,  which  the  dealers  usually  do ;  then 
put  some  sage,  crumbs  of  bread,  salt,  and  pepper  into  the  belly, 
and  sew  it  up.  Observe  to  skewer  the  legs  back,  or  the  under 
part  will  not  crisp. 

Lay  it  to  a  brisk  fire  till  thoroughly  dry ;  then  have  ready 
some  butter  in  a  dry  cloth,  and  rub  the  pig  with  it  in  every 
part.  Dredge  as  much  flour  over  it  as  will  possibly  lie,  and 
do  not  touch  it  again  till  ready  to  serve ;  then  scrape  off  the 
floor  very  carefully  with  a  blunt  knife,  rub  it  well  with  the  but- 
tered doth,  and  take  off  the  head  while  at  the  fire ;  also  take 
out  the  brains,  and  mix  them  with  the  gravy  that  comes  from 
the  pig.  Then  take  it  up ;  and  without  withdrawing  the  spit, 
cot  it  down  the  back  and  belly,  lay  it  into  the  dish,  and  diop 
die  sage  and  bread  quickly  as  fine  as  you  can,  and  mix  them 
with  a  large  quantity  of  fine  melted  butter  that  has  very  litde 
flour.  Put  the  sauce  into  the  dish  after  the  pig  has  been  split 
down  the  back,  and  garnished  with  the  ears  and  the  two  jaws ; 
take  off  the  upper  part  of  the  head  down  to  the  SDout. 

In  Devonsiure  it  is  served  whole,  if  very  small ;  the  head 
only  being  cut  off  to  garnish  as  above. 

Curious  method  of  roasting  a  Pig. 

The  pig  is  not  to  be  scalded ;  but,  being  drawn  and  washed, 
must  be  spitted  with  the  hair  on,  and  put  to  the  fire,  yet  not  so 


^ 


\ 


tV9  DOMBSXICriEOOKBRY. 


as  to  scorch.  When  itts  dMifc  H  fiiMir  r^asted^  and  the  skin 
appears  blistered  from  tke  flMh«  Ihe  teir  And  afcio  is  to  be 
pulled  dean  awajr  with  the  kaiid>  leaving  aU,  the  fiit  and  flash 
perf(^ybare.  Than,  withaknif^,  lbs fleik is  ta be  secMehad 
or  scored  down  to  the  bonsai  said  aacsedittgly  wvll  basted  witfs 
fiiesh  butter  and  cream  yar|r  noderately  wailli»  and  dnedgedl 
plentifttily  with  fine  bread  cmmbs,  awtaaiai  sugar,  and  aalt» 
asixed  h|^  together.  Thus  baaUugan  4i«dgpng,  and  dredging 
an  bastings  must  be  ix>Bstantly  iqipUed*  in  timis,  till  the  en* 
tire  ^esK.ia  oovei^  a  fuM  inch  ditept  wheii^  Ihe  meat  being 
fa\\y  romted^  the  pig  is  «a  be  wnrved  ^  mhdd.  With  the  nsnel 
sauce  for  a|fig  roasted  ia  the  coalman  way.  In  a  ?iarf  aM 
manuscript  collection,  this  is  stated  to  be  a  peculiarly  ddaoiaoflB 
as  well  as  curious  dish. 


Tb  bdit  u  SmMi^ 

Lay  yaair  pig  tnid  adnii  w«ll  butuered,  fhyar  it  aft  ^m&t, 
rub  aofloe  b«tter>0R  the  fsg,  ssid  aand  it  to  tbe  oiMm.  Whan 
yakilhinkitiaibmtigh,  tsiseityAlt^  nib«t«>7ter  wj«b  abMtewid 
doth,  and  put  it  into  the  oven  again  till  it  is<dry  {  tlien  take  ft 
asrti,  lay  it  in  a  dish,  and  cot  it  tap.  Sknn  «iF  tlus  Ikt  >fitim  the 
dish  tt  ms  baked  in,  and  some  good  gr«ry  wiH  vemaHi  at  Mi« 
bottom.  Pat  this  ta  aKtlle  ynml  Ifrsvy,  w4th  a  piaoe  ^  baffiber 
railed  in 'Boor,  ami  bmllt  np  ivieh  dib  bmias,*  Aim  poulr  4t 
kita  a  dish,  mid  mik  it  weR  with  the  ^age  that  eames  -oift  ^ 
tfate  focfiy  of  tke  pig«  ^9ervie  It  wp  kdt  Ho  trfiAfe  wMi  a^le-saowe 
andtxmstnd, 

To^lhtr  a  Smthhtg  Pig. 

Bone  ymm  pig,  smd  than  ir^  ft  M  aver  with  -pitippffe  mid 
mlt  baamn  fine,  ai^isage  Invfns^  atid  c(i»rM:  teitis  ehapped 
smiil.  aaU  it  np  Kght,  -and  AjmA  it  with  afille^  FUl  fv» 
bailer  withveft  water,  >pttt  in  a  bonck  of  9weet  tierba,  a  few 
pepper-catio,  a4)kMie'or  two  of  mabe,  eight  mr  tan  <:loves,  a 
fcandfol  of  Shit,  and  a  pint  <ff  vinegar.  When  it'boitB,  ^  in 
your  pig,  and  let  it  boil  J^Mi  is  tender.  Then  trfie  it  uf»,  and 
when  it  is  almost  cold,  bind  it  over  again,  put  it  into  an 
earthen  pot,  and  pour  the  liquor  your  pig  was  boiled  in  upon 
it.    Be  ctutf ul^  eovmr  it  cleee  down  sA^r  you  cut  mrf  tbr  use. 


/ 


L0|the  M  b^il  t9l the j  i|r« pnM jr  tender;  biA  t«ke  up  the 
hiait,  livery  ml  M^l^,  whev  tMp  l^ve  boiM  tm  tmvm, 

and  ihi94  tfimi  r«&ber  aoidl,  Talo  out  ib#  ft#t^  M  q>Ut 
tb«i  j  tbidKen  your  gr«vy  ivitb  Aour  iMid  buttfr>  f^  piM;  il» 
ypfv  iMDO^meKlt  •  little  macf*  •  fVoe  of  lem»n«  «  Uttl«  ifi)|» 
and  give  it.  |i  gratle  Ml  L%y  nppeta  roii(i4  the  4Mb  ^ 
pour  in  your  mincemeat,  and  in  the  centre  the  pettitoes. 

.  To  4f^e9$  PfttUw  m^h$r  t^^* 
Utmg  foalded  twp  or  three  seta  oi  fast,  and  the  pliidu, 
life  tibem  iip»  and  put  tbem  inta  a  atew-pen,  with  hidf  a  pint 
of  mm&r,  twa  eschalbta,  a  little  pardey  and  aage^  nU  ^^A 
fine;  eeaaaa  with  a  falack  of  naoe,  a  little  grated  nutmeg, 
lAile  pepper,  aad  salt ;  when  Aey  ave  neatly  dene>  and  the 
liquor  oenanmed,  minee  the  pluek,  and  edd  to  il;  the  feet  whh 
a  wUte  eoolit^  two  tea-epoopfkla  dt  leaion  piekie,  a  taUq- 
ifwenfiil  ef  white  wine,  and  seaaon  with  cayeme  and  «ilt: 
die  whole  tiii  lender>  end  serve  with  sippets  round  theu. 


Jo  mh0  ex^ftkut  MffM  ^  0k  lh^$  H$^, 
fi^  Ae  head,  take  out  the  hrahw,  and  ent  off.  Ae  cara ; 
than  speieUe  il  wi|h eoflUHm  salt  foreday,  anddseKnit:  aak 
it  well  with  oemnsoo  salt  and  sakpistvv  three  days,  then  lay  the 
silt  aiid  liead  into  a  Msall  qeantity  of  water  if/t  two  days. 
W^ft,  oMd  bed  it  till  «U  the  fooneewfll  eoae  ont;  remove 
Ihim,  afid  ehop  the  head  as  quick  as  possible ;  hot  first  sidn  the 
tongue,  and  take  the  skin  carefully  off  the  head,  to  put  under 
and  over.  Season  with  pepper,  salt,  and  ft  little  mace  or  all- 
spice berries.  Put  the  skin  into  a  small  pan,  press  the  cut 
head  in,  and  put  the  other  skin  over ;  press  it  down.  When 
osU,  it  win  tern  out,  end  make  a  kfnd  of  brawn.  If  too  fat, 
JMM  may  put  a  few  bits  of  lean  pork  to  be  prepared  the  same 
way.  Add  ealt  and  vinegar,  and  boil  these  with  some  of  the 
hiiaaff  Ibr  a  pidde  *to  keep  it  in. 

Zh  rHui  P9^b§r'9  JKed. 

Choose  a  fine  young  head,  clean  it  well,  and  put  bread 
and  sage  as  for  a  pig ;  sew  it  up  tight,  and  on  |i  string  or 
hanging  Jack  roast  it  as  a  pig,  and  serve  with  (he  ^me  oauce. 


113  BOMBSTIC  COOKBRT. 


To  frepare  Pig'k  Chedc  /or 

Cut  off  the  skiout,  aod  clean  the  head ;  divide  it,  and  take 
out  the  eyes  and  Inrains;  sprinkle  the  head  with  salt,  and  let 
it  drain  twenty-four  hours.  Salt  it  with  common  salt  and  salt- 
'petre :  let  it  lie  eight  or  ten  days  if  to  be  dressed  without  stew- 
ing with  peas^  but  less  if  to  be  dressed  with  peas ;  and  it  must 
be  washed  first,  and  then  simmered  till  it  is  tender. 

To  cottar  Pigs  Head. 

Scour  the  head  and  ears  nicely :  take  off  tlie  hair  and  snout, 
and  take  out  the  eyes  and  the  brain;  lay  it  into  water  one 
night ;  then  drain,  salt  it  extremely  well  with  common  salt  and 
saltpetre,  and  let  it  lie  five  days.  :  Boil  it  enough  to  take  out 
the  bones;  then  lay  it  on  a  dresser,  turning  the  thick  end  of 
one  side  of  the  head  towards-Ae  thin  end  of  the  other,  to  make 
the  roll  of  equal  size ;  sprinkle  it  well  with  salt  and  white  pep- 
per, and  roll  it  with  the  ears;  and  if  youmpprove,  put  the 
pig's  feet  round  the  outside  when  boned,  or  the  thin  parts  of 
two  cow-heels.  Put  it  into  a  cloth,  bind  with  a  broad  tape, 
and  boil  it  till  quite  tender;  then  put  a  good  weight  upon  it, 
and  do  not  take  off  the  covering  tUl  cold.  If  you  choose  it  to 
be  more  like  brawn,  salt  it  longer,  and  let  the  proportion  of 
saltpetre  be  greater,  and  put  in  also  some  pieces  of  lean  pork; 
and  then  cover  it  with  cow-heel  to  look  like  the  horn. 

This  may  be  kept  either  in  or  out  of  pickle,  of  salt  and 
water  boiled,  with  vinegar ;  and  is  a  very  convenient  thing  to 
have  in  the  house.  If  likely  to  spoil,  slice  and  fry  it  either 
with  or  without  batter.     " 

To  dry  Hog'^  Cheek. 

Cut  out  the  snout,  remove  the  brains,  and  split  the  head, 
taking  off  the  upper  bone,  to  make  the  chawl  a  good  shape: 
rub  it  well  with  salt ;  next  day  take  away  the  brine,  and  salt  it 
again  the  following  day ;  cover  the  head  with  half  an  ounce  of 
saltpetre,  two  ounces  of  bay  salt,  a  little  of  common  salt,  and 
four  ounces  of  coarse  sugar.  Let  the  head  be  often  turned ; 
after  ten  days,  smoke  it  for  a  week  like  bacon. 

To  force  Hog's  Ears. 
Parboil  two  pair  of  ears,  or  take  some  that  have  been 
soused :  make  a  forcemeat  of  an  anchovy,  some  sage,  parsley. 


PORK.  113 

&  qnarler  of  a  pouiid  of  suet  chopped,  bread  crumbs,  pepper, 
and  osly  a  little  salt.  Mix  all  these  with  the  yolks  of  two  eggs ; 
raise  the  skin  of  the  upper  side  of  the  ears,  and  stuff  them 
with  the  above.  Fry  the  ears  in  fresh  butter,  of  a  fine  colour ; 
then  pour  away  the  fat,  and  drain  them :  make  ready  half  a 
pint  of  rich  gravy,  with  a  glass  of  fine  sherry,  three  tea- 
spoonfiils  of  made  mustard,  a  little  bit  of  flour  and  butter,  a 
small  onion  whole,  and  a  little  pepper  or  cayenne.  Put  this 
with  the  ears  into  a  stew-pan,  and  cover  it  close  ;  stew  it  gently 
for  half  an  hour,  shaking  the  pan  often.  When  done  enough, 
take  oat  the  onion,  place  the  ears  carefully  in  a  dish,  and 
poor  the  sauce  over  them.  If  a  larger  dish  is  wanted,  the  meat 
from  two  teet  may  be  added  to  the  above. 

To  dress  Pig's  Feet  and  Ears,      , 

Clean  and  scald  the  feet  and  ears,  divide  the  feet  down  the 
niddle,  tie  them  together,  put  them  into  a  sauce-pan  with 
water  enough  to  cover  them  well ;  when-  they  boil,  skim  them 
dean,  add  some  pepper,  mace,  allspice,  salt,  two  or  three 
onions,  and  a  little  thyme.  Stew  them  till  tender,  and  set 
them  by.  The  next  day  clear  them  from  fat,  and  shake  the 
feet  (untying  them  first)  a  little  over  the  fire,  with  a  little  of 
the  liquor  they  were  boiled  in,  some  chopped  parsley  and 
shalots,  and  a  little  lemon  juice.  Then  rub  the  feet  over  with 
yolk  of  egg  and  bread  crumbs,  and  brown  them  with  a  sala- 
mander. Slice  the  ears  into. long  narrow  slips,  stew  them  a 
few  minutes  in  some  good  gravy,  and  serve  them  up  with  the 
feet  upon  them. 

To  dress  Pig's  Feet  and  Ears  another  waif. 

Clean  the  feet  and  ears  carefully,  and  soak  them  some 
hours,  and  boil  them  tender  ;  then  take  them  out ;  boil  some 
vinegar  and  a  little  salt  with  some  of  the  water,  and  when  cold 
put  it  over  them.  When  they  are  to  be  dressed,  dry  them,  cut 
the  feet  in  two,  and  slice  the  ears ;  fry,  and  serve  with  butter, 
nnstard,  and  vinegar.  They  may  be  either  done  in  batter, 
or  only  floured. 

Pig's  Feet  and  Ears  fricasseed. 

Put  no  vinegar  into  the;  pickle,  if  to  be  dressed  with  crcaui. 
Tut  the  feet  and  ears  into  neat  bits,  and   boil  them  in  a  little 

4  Q 


J 


114  DOMESTIC    CDOKKRY. 

milk ;  th^n  pour  that  from  them,  and  siinmer  m  a  Htlle  Teal 
bfDth,  with  a  bit  x>f  onioD^  nmce,  and  lemon  peel.  Before 
you  serve,  add  a  little  cveam,  flour,  butter,  and  lalt. 

Jelly  of  Pig's  Feet  and  Ears. 

r 

Clean  and  prepare  aa  in  the  last  article,  then  boil,  them  in  a 
very  small  quantity,  of  water  j.ill  every  bone  can  be  taken  out ; 
throw  in  half  a  handful  of  chopped  sage,  the  same  of  pairsley, 
and  a  seasoning  of  pepper,  salt»  and  mace  in  fine  powder; 
simmer  till  the  herbs  are  scalded,  then  pour  the  whole  into  a 
melon  form. 

Pig'i  HarsUt. 

Wash  and  dry  some  liver,  sweetbreads,  and  fat  and  lean 
biits  of  pork,  beating  the  latter  with  a  rolling-pin  to  make  it 
tiender :  season  with  pepper,  salt,  sage,  and  a  little  onion  shred 
ftne ;  when  mixed,  put  all  into  a  caul,  and  fasten  it  up  tight 
^tih  a  needle  and  thread.  Roast  it  on  a  hanging  jack,  or  by 
a  string.  ' 

Serve  with  a  sauce  of  port  wine  and  water,  and  mustard, 
just  boiled  up,  aftd  put  into  a  dish. 

Mock  Brawn. 

Take  the  belly^piece  of  a  fine  young  porker,  rub  it  well 
with  saltpetre,  let  it  remain  thus  two  or  three  days,  wash  it 
clean,  and  boil  it  till  nearly  enough;  then  take  three  aeats^ 
feet,  boil  them  tender,  take  out  all  the  bones,  and  roll  the  feet 
and  belly-pieoe  together  as  closely  as  possible.  Bind  the  whole 
vecy  tight  with  a  stiong  doth  and  coarse-  tape ;.  in  which  let  it 
hotl  till  quite 'tender,  and  then  hang  it  up  without  removing 
tfai^  string  or  cloth.  It  is  afterward  to  be  kept  in  a  aoasing 
pickle,  nuide  as  directed  in  the  ne^it  article.  Some  pecsons,  in 
making  mock  brawn,  use  a  pig*s  head,  which  they  seaddn  and 
\m\  with  the  belly-piece ;  tiien,  cutting  the  meat  from  the 
bones,  introduce  it  blended  with  the  pieces  of  neats*  feet :  bat 
this  method,  however  ingenious,  requires  much  more  trouble 
in  pressing  and  keeping  the  brawn  together ;  and  has,'  afler 
all,  little  or  no  advantage  in  taste,  wjien  the  former  is  properly 
managed. 


pork:  114 

S^we  foi'  Brawn,  PigfT  fteads.  Feet,  Sfc. 

Boil  a  quart  of  oatmeal^  a  quarter  ^f  a  peck  of  bran^  a  sprig 
or  two  of  rosemary,  a  sprig  of  bay,  and  half  a  pound  of  salt^ 
in  two  gallons  and  a  half  of  water,  for  about  h^f  an  hour; 
then  strain  the  liquor  through  a  sieve  ;  add  f^  little  vinegar ; 
and,  when  colcl,  it  is. fit  for  immediate  use.  Should  this  sous- 
ing  liquor  be  required  for  brawn,  &c.  which  is  wished  to  be 
kept  good  all  the  year,  by  putting  into  it  a  pint  of  spirits  of 
wine  <Mr  gpod  brandy,  for  every  six  quarts  of  the  liquor,  it 
will  admirably  p^swei  the  purpose,  without  imparting  to  the 
brawn  any  brandy  taste,  T^is  is  a  valuable  secret  for  pre^ 
serving  all  sorts  of  souses  and  pickling  liquors,  though  much 
too  dear  for  common  use.  At  sea,  and  where  spirits  are  cheap, 
this  secret  is^  well  worth  knowing. 

«  * 

Black,  or  Hog's  Puddings. 

* 

Though  hog's  puddings  are  generally  so  ill  manufactured 
for  sale  in  London,  as  to  form  a  food  by  no  means  very  inviting, 
they  are  excellent  eating  whto  properly  made.  We  often  meet 
with  them  at  the  houses  of  farmers  and  country  gentlemen  in 
diSmat  parts  of  the  united  kingdom.  They  are,  as  may  be 
supposed  of  so,  general  an  article,,  made  in  a  great  variety  of 
ways ;  from  which,  however,  we  shall  select  only  such  as  we 
consider  to  be  the  best^  commencing  with  what  is  the  most 
conuDOD^  yet  prpb^^bly  nqt  the  worst.  Boil  a  quantity  of  what 
are  catted  grits,  or  grots,  in  sufficient  WAter  for  about  half  an 
hour,  and.piit  them  into  a  tub  or  pan :  on.  killing  the  hc^^  save 
two  tpiafts  of  the  blood,  which  must  be  continually  stirred  til) 
it  beqmfjs  ;quHe  cold ;  then  mix  and  stir  well  together  the  blood 
and  g^ts, .  apd  sef^sofi  them  with  a  taUe-spoonful  of  salt,  some 
ponpded  allspice,  a  good  quantity  of  pennyroyal,  a  little 
thyne^  winlc^r  savory,  and  sweet  marjoram,  all  finely  shred. 
The  skins,  or  gpts,  having  been  in  the  mean  time  properly 
deioped,  ai^(:ed»  and  soaked^  some  of  the  leaf  or  flair  of  the 
hog  b  next  litay  to  be  ^t  into  very  small  dice,  and  plentifully 
mi^with.  the  other  ingredients,  at  proper  distances,  as  the 
whok  are  $lled  iB.  Tie  them  in  links  when  only  three  parts 
fnU,  and  put  them  in  boiling  wat^ ;  pricking  them  as  they 
swell,  to  prevent  their  bursting.  Boil  them  gently  for  alKMrt 
tt  hour,  and  then  put  them  on  straw,  or  olean  doths,  to  drata 


116  DOMESTIC    COOKERY. 

and  dry;  after  which  they  may  be  hung  up  for  use,  and  will 
keep  good  a  considerable  time. 

Soine,  who  are  desirous  of  producing  them  in  a  superior 
style/ make  them  as  follows:— They  soak  all  the  preceding 
night,  before  killing  the  hog, '  about  a  quart  of  grits,  in  as 
much  boiling  hot  milk  ;  putting  in  a  tolerable  quantity  of  pen- 
nyroyal, with  some  savory,  thyme,  pepper,  mace,  nutmeg, 
and  a  few  cloves,  finely  powdered.  These  being  mixed  with 
a  quart  of  the  blood  which  has  been  stirred  well  with  salt  till 
quite  cold,  are  filled  into  the  skins  with  some  of  the  diced  fat, 
and  boiled  in  the  same'  manner  as  already  directed.  These 
methods  are  occasionally  diversified^  by  adding  crumbs  of  bread 
soaked  in  milk  or  water,  a  small  quantity  of  finely  shred  leeks, 
beef  suet,  beaten  eggs,  <^c.  according  to  peculiar  fancy,  local 
partialities,  or  immediate  convenience.  Before  using  black 
puddings,  whether  broiled  or  dressed  in  a  Dutch  oven,  they 
should  be  scalded  for  a  few  minutes,  and  afterwards  wiped 
drv. 

French  Hog's  Puddings. 

In  France,  where  hog's  puddings  are  in  far  higher  estima- 
tion than  with  us,  they  are  usually  made  in  the  following 
simple  manner :  Boil  a  few  onions,  cut  small,  in  a  little  water, 
with  some  of  the  fat  or  flair;  when  the  water  has  entirely 
boiled  away,  cut  some  fresh  flair  into  small  dice,  and  put  it 
in  the  stew-pan  to  the  onions,  with  the  blood  of  the  hog,  and 
a  fourth  part  as  much  cream,  seasoned  with  salt  and  spices  to 
palate.  Stir  the  whole  well  together,  and  fill  the  skins  with 
them,  by  means  of  a  shallow  funnel,  the  tube  of  which  is 
adapted  to  the  size  of  the  gut,  which  is  first  cut  into  the  pro- 
posed length  of  the  puddings ;  for,  in  France,  they  are  not 
made  up  in  links,  being  actually  sold  by  measure.  The  ends 
being  properly  tied,  with  due  care,  not  to  endanger  their 
bursting  by  being  over-filled,  th^y  are  put  into  hot  water ;  and, 
having  boiled  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  one  of  them  is  taken 
up  with  a  skimmer,  and  pricked  with  a  pin ;  when,  if  blood 
does  not  come  out,  but  the  fat  only,  it  is  a  satisfactory  proof 
that  they  are  enough  done.  They  must  then  be  set  to  cool ; 
and,  l)efore  they  are  served  up,  they  must  be  broiled  ott  a 
gridiron. 


PORK.  117 

White  Hog's  Puddings. 

Wben  the  akins  have  been  soaked  and  cleaned  as  before 
I,  rinse  and  soak  them  all  night  in  rose-water,  and  put 
into  them  the  following  filling :  mix  half  a  pound  of  blanched 
almonds  cut  into  seven  or  eight  bits,  with  a  pound  of  grated 
bread,  two  pounds  of  marrow  or  suet,  a  pound,  of  currants, 
some  beaten  cinnamon,  cloves,  mace,  and  nutmeg,  a  quart  of 
cream,  the  yolks  of  six  and  whites  of  two  eggs,  a  little  orange- 
flower  water,  a  little  fine.  Lisbon  sugar,  and  some  lemon  peel  and 
citron  sliced,  and  half  fill  the  skins.  To  know  whether  sweet 
enough,  warm  a  little  in  a  panikin.  In  boiling,  much  care 
must  be  taken  to  prevent  the  puddings  from  bursting.  Prick 
them  with  a  small  fork  as  they  rise,  and  boil  them  in  milk  and 
water.     Lay  them  in  a  table-cloth  till  cold. 

Hog's  Puddings,  with  Cuirants, 

Four  pounds  of  beef  suet  shred  fine,  three  pounds  of 
grated  bread,  and  two  pounds  of  currants  picked  and  washed  . 
cloves,  mace,  and  cinnamon,  of  each  a  quarter  of  an  ounce 
finely  beaten ;  salt,  a  pound  and  a  half  of  sugar,  a  pint  of 
wme,  a  quart  of  cream,  a  little  rose-water,  and  twenty  eggs 
well  beaten,  with  half  the  whites.  Mix  all  together,  fill  clean 
guts  half  full,  boil  them  a  little,  and  prick  them  as  they  boil. 
Take  them  up  on  dean  cloths,  and  then  lay  them  on  a  dish. 

Hog^s  Puddings,  with  Almonds, 

Chop  one  pound  of  beef  marrow,  and  half  a  pound  of 
sweet  almonds  blanched;  beat  them  fine  with  a  little  orange 
flower,  or  rose-water,  half  a  pound  of  grated  bread,  half  a 
pound  of  currants,  washed  and  picked,  a  quarter  of  a  pound 
of  fine  sugar,  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  each  of  mace,  nut- 
meg, and  cinnamon;  and  half  a  pint  of  wine.  Mix  all  toge- 
ther with  half  a  pint  of  cream,  and  the  yolks  of  four  eggs : 
iiil  the  guts  half  full,  tie  them  up,  and  boil  them  a  quarter  of 
an  hour. 

• 

Hog's  Lard. 

This  useful  article  should  be  carefully  melted  in  ajar  put 
into  a  kettle  of  water  and  boiled  :  run  it  into  bladders  that  haVe 
been  extremely  well  cleaned.     The  smaller  they  are  the  better 


IIB  DOMESTIC    COOKERY. 

the  lard  keeps ;  as,  after  the  air  ttaches  it,  it  becomes  rank. 
Put  in  a  sprig  of  roiseinary  when. melting. 

This  l^ing  a  most. useful  article  for  frying  fishy  it  should  be 
prepared  with  care.     Mixed  with  butter,  it  makesi  fine  cmai. 

To  cure  Hams. 

Hang  them  a  day  or  two ;  then.  sivrinUe  tbem  wjjbb  ^  UMm 

salt,  and  drain  them  another  day;  pound  an  ounce  and.a.helf 

pf  saltpetre^,  the  same  quantity  ot  bayr^U,  half  anou^ec^of 

sal-prunel,   apd  a  pound  of  jthe  Qoarsest  sugar.     Mix  tbeae 

well ;  and  rub  them  into  each  ham,  every  day  fotfouf  (b^ys^ 

and  turn  it.     If  a  small  one,  turn  it  every  day  for..threP:wefifca ; 

if  a  large  one,  a  week  longer;  bi|t  do  n^t  Jrub  afiei^  four  dayii. 

Before  you  dry  it,  drain  and  cover  with  bran.    Smoke  it^jten 

days. 

♦ 
To  cure  Hamn  other  tpayf^  .  . 

Cho<^se  the  l^  of  a  hog  that  is  bX  and  we^-;f<^;ihMK> 
it  dA  alcove ;  if  large,  put  ;ta  it  a  pound  of  bfiynsalt,  fmsm 
ounces  of  saltp^tt^  .a  pound  of  the  ooarpest  9ugar«.  and  n 
handful  of  .cominoii  salt,  all  in  fine  powder^  and  rub  it  ,lh0;f 
it>ughly.  .  Lay  the  rind  downwards,  and  cover:  the  fleshy  parta 
with  the  sal^  Ba^te  it  .as  often  as  yon  can  liriA.ihe  pickle; 
the  more  the  better.  Keep  it  four  week9»  ttoiing  it  evejry  itay^ 
Drain  it,  and  throw  bran  oyer  it ;  then  hang  it  in  a  chimney 
where  wood  is  btimt^  and  ium  it  some  times  for  ten  days. 

Qr :  h^g  the  h^im,  and  sprinkle  it  wilh  salt  a»  above ; 
then  rub  it.  every  day  v^ith  the  6>Uowi^,  in  fine  powder :  haW 
a  pQUfid  of  common  salt^  the.  same  quitntity  of  bay-^t,  two 
puaces  of  saltpetre,  and  two  ounces  of  black.. pepper »  mixed 
with  a  pound  .and  a  half:of  treacle. .  Turn  it,vtwtce  a  day  is 
the  pvckle,  for  .thnee  weeks.  Lay  it  into  a  pail  of  water  for 
one  night,  wipe  it  quite  dry,  and  smoke  it  two  ot  three  weeks* 

Another  way,  that  gives  the  Ham  a  highftawmr. 

When  the  weather  vnll  permit,  hang  the  ham  three  days ;  mix 
an  ounce  of  saltpetre  with  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  bay-salt,  the 
•ame  quantity  of  conunon  salt,  and  also  of  coarsfe  M^r j  aiid  a 
quaiit  fii  stioBg  beer ;  boil  them  together,  aadpour  thekn  iiiunedfri 
alely  upon  :the  ham ;  turn  it  twice  .a  day  in  the  piekle  Ibr  threii 


I 

PORK.  119 

w^Am,  An  ounce  of  Uack  pepper,  and  the  sane  quftntily  ef 
aUspiee,  in  fine  powder^  udded  to  the  above,  will  give  ^tiUT 
aMMtf  flavonr.  Cover  itvlrith  briin.when  wiped  ;  and  smoke  it 
(rtln  thiee  to  fonr  weeks,  as  you  approve :  the  latter  wiU  miake 
it  harder,  and  five  it  oMNre  of  the  flai^r  of  Westphalia. '  Sew 
hams  in  hessinga  (that  is,  coarse  wrappers,)  if  to  be  .teokhd 
wheie  there  40  a  strong  fire. 

4 

A  method  of  giving  the  Bam  a  $tUl  higher  fiMtour. 

Sprinkle  the  ham  with  salt,  after  it  has  hung  two  or  three 
days ;  kt  it  drain  ;  make  a  pickk  of  a  quart  of  strong  bcor, 
half  a  pound  of  treade,  an  ounce  of  coriander-seeds,  -  two 
oenees  of  Juniper-bdrries,  an  ounce  of  pepper,  the  same 
qadntity  of  allapi6e,  an  ounce  of  saltpetre,  half 'an  ounce  of 
Si^imnel,  a  haiidfnl  id  common  salt,  and  a  head  of  shalot, 
all  fjdunded  or  cut  fine.  Boil  these  all  together  a  few  minutes, 
and  pour  them  over  the  ham:  this  quandty  is  for  one  of  >  ten 
pmrnda.  ituband  ttim  it  every  day  for  a  ibrtnight ;' thevi 
sewdt  up  in  a  thin  linen  bag,  and  smoke  it  three  iveeks.  Take 
coe  to- drain  it  from  the  pickle,  Bnd  rub  it  in  bran,  befib&re 
(hying. 

BmckmghmMhin  method  of  kUUng  and  curii^,Q..B§t<fn  ffog. 

in:  Bnckinghamshirev  Where  the  fiesh  of  the  hog  affoids 
shaost  the  only  animal  food  of  that  numerous  class  of  people 
idu>  are  employed  in  agricultural  affairs,  it  is  weD  they  have' 
in  geaeral  such   excellent  bacon.     The  time  of  killing  Ihe- 
ahanal  hog,  which  the  smallest  village  fiunilies,  above  actual* 
iadigenoe,  contrive  to  fatten  for  bacon,  is  soon  after  Biichael- 
mmtL    Men,  called  iiog  butdiers,  undertake  this  business,  which 
they  perform  by  cutting,'  with  a  large  kiiife,  the  throat  of  the' 
anmail ;  when  the  blood  is  caught,  anid  stirred  with  'salt,  for 
Uadc  puddings.     Some  straw  being  then  spread  on  the  ground, 
by  way  of  bed,  the  hog,  when  quite  dead,  is  there  stretched 
at  full  length,  and  completdy  covered  over  with  a  quantity  of 
fiesh  sthlw.    This  is  kindled  into  a  blaze,  and  when  snficient 
stiaw  has  beeu  consumed  to  sweal,  or  rather  singe,  as  it  is 
there  called,  the  upper  side  of  the  hog,  that  is  completely  to 
bom  the!  hair  or  bristles,  the  butcher  scrapes  off  all  the  burnt' 
psMvwilii  his  knifev  wipes  the  browned  dtin  quite  clean  with; 


I 

120  DOMESTIC  COOKSSY. 

fltraw,  and  tens  tlie  ho^  on  tiie  other  ade.    IWm,  iMsptaf 
orer  note  utraw,  that  side  also  is  mged  attd  seraffted  a  the 
same  Banner.     Afierthis,  the  hoj^  bham^iip,  and'theei 
and  internal  parts  are  all  taken  out ;  and,  ai  every  part  of 
nseful  ereatore  is  eataUe,  die  boweb  or  elilttei  lings  nie  eaie- 
hBy  cleansed,  and  the  small  ones  knotted  np,  like  a  sort  of 
thong,  for  boiling.     The  carcase  being  thns  deaied  and  oold, 
and  the  hocks  severed,  the  hog  is  placed  on  the  chopping  stool, 
with  its  back  upward ;  and,  in  this  state,  the  head  is  first 
taken  off,  and  achiae  cot  oat  the  fidl  lengthrof  the  back.    Tbit 
hams  are  next  separated ;  after  diem, '  the  spaie^ribs  and  grin- 
kins  ;  and,  lastly,  the  blade  bones  from  die  two  iitdies  or 
sides,  with  as  much  lean  meat  as  can  foe  fairly  taken  sway. 
This  may  be  denominated  the  complete  catdng  np  and  dis- 
posal of  a  bacon  hog.     The  various  internal  parts,  with  tiie 
spare-ribs,  and  other  lean  meat  in  general,  as  well  as  the  blaidc* 
puddings,  are  in  part  consumed  by  the  owner's  family ;  and  the 
rest,  being  usually  much  the  largest  part,  is  sold  to  different 
neighbours.     The  dimes,  head,  tongue,  and  hocks,  are  wdl 
salted ;  all  the  other  parts  of  what  is  termed  the  hog  meat  are 
eaten  fresh,  being  merely  sprinkled  with  salt  on  hanging  them 
up  for  immediate  use.     The  grand  article,  that  of  the  bacon, 
one  or  both  flitches  of  which  are  generally  kept  by  the  family, 
now  occupies  their  chief  attention.     The  hams,  too,  are  some- 
times kept  and  cured,  bbt  they  are  oftener  disposed  of  green 
by  small  or  humble  families.     When  kept,  however,  they  are; 
with  the  bacon,  thus  cured :.— Having  finely  powdered  about 
half  a  pound  of  saltpetre,  rub  well  over  both  hams  with  eqnal 
quantities  of  half  the  saltpetre,  laying  each  on  a  dish,  .with  the 
rinds  or   back  of    the  ham  downward;   and,    over  the  two 
flitches,  rub  an  equal  division  of  the  remaining  quarter  of  a' 
pound  of  saltpetre,  paying  particular  attention  to  the  parts 
where  the  hocks  are  cut  oflT,  and  leave  them  on  the  salting  form. 
Next  morning,  heat  first  three  or  four  pounds  of  salt,  with 
about  a  pound  of  moist  sugar,  in  a  frying-pan  ;  and,  when  quite 
hot,  rub  it  equally  over  both  hams,  and  put  them,  with  their 
rind  side  downward,  in  the  salting-pan  or  tub,  without  any 
other  brine ;  as  they  will  of  themselves  make  a  suflicient  quan- 
tity, especially  if  two  pounds  of  salt  be  used  *for  each  ham. 
Then,  for  the  two  flitches,  heat  six  or  sevcii  pounds  of  salt. 


FORK.  Itl 

with  ft  pomd  of  ■agar,  to  tkt  maaner  ai  for  the  haoM,  aad 
TJife  then  abo  oqaally  idl  over^  while  Ike  mixed*  laUiaBd  *agar 
19  as  hot  aa  it  oaa  potMbly  be  borne  bj  thehaad*    Thsa  bciag 
thMoggfaly  tfone^  place  o«e  of  the  iitchea.  over  the  otber»  aad 
set  a  paa  to  catch  the  briae  as  it  nuis«    Both  die  haau  aad 
baeoft  should  reaiaia  at  least  a  oioath  iartie  salt,  aad  be  nih^ 
bed  ofcr  with  the  briae,  aad  taraed  oaceor  ofteaer  every 
weel[;  the  under  flitdi  of  the  liacoa  beiagy  each  time,  plaeed 
at  the  top.      As  Buckiaghamshire  Is,  in  generals  a  woedy 
eoutry,  aad  the  chimney  places  are  extmiely  wide,  both  the 
bacon  and  hams,  when  eaoagh  salted,  can  convenient^  be 
hiiag,  by  strings  t%htly  tied  roaad  the  hocks,  sufficiently  near 
a  eoastaat  wood  fire  to  be  well,  though  gradaally  dried,  witb- 
oat  being  what  may  be  denominated  poisoned  wkh  smoke.  Ta 
thin  cirenmstaace,  and  the  solid  feed  of  the  anfanab,  cooHttody 
fcttened  with  peas,  as  well  as  often  bred  in  habits  of  obtaining^ 
in  Ae  woods  and  on  the  commons,  beech  mast,  acorns,  Ao. 
may  be  ascribed  much  of  the  distinguished'  sweetness  and 
solidity  of  Buckinghamshire  bacon ;  little  of  which,  howevdr^ 
finds  its  way  to  the  London  market,  bemg  gladly  consumed  at 
home.    Even  where  the  chunney  comers  are  not  wide  enough, 
the  bacon  rack  alone,  which  is  seen  dependmg  from  the  ceiling 
of  every  kitchen,  will  often  saSce  to  dry  a  flitch  or  two  of 
bacoB ;  particularly  as  they  do  not  vrant  it  tamted  by  smoke„ 
but  only  dried  by  the  salutary  heat  of  their  pleasant  wood 
firfes* 

To  CMtif  Bam  the  Tarktkhre  Wi^ 

Beat  them  well ;  mix  together  half  a  peck  of  salt,  tfuee 
ounces  of  saltpetre,  half  an  ounce  of  salpmnella,  and  five 
pounds  of  coarse  salt  Rub  vrell  with  this ;  pat  them  into  a 
krge  pan  or  pickling-tab,  and  lay  what  remaias  on  the  top. 
Let  them  lie  three  days,  and  thea  hang  diem  up.  Put  as  much 
water  to  it  as  wiH  cover  die  hams,  adding  salt  till  it  will  bear 
an  egg,  then  boU  and  strain  it.  The  next  morning  put  in  the 
hams,  and  press  them  down  sa  that  diey  may  be  covered. 
When  they  hate  lain  a  fortnight,  mb  them  well  with  bran, 
aad  dry  them.  Three  middle*siaed  hams  may  be  done  with 
-  these  tnglediaits,  so  that  if  you  do  only  one;  you  must  pio- 
portion  the  quantity  of  each  article. 
5  R 


Its  DOMESTJ^  (;()OKBRY. 

Cuve  ttro  Manui  in  Ike  foUovmg  Aiamler:  battr  4w»-^««i:c^ 
Df  ndpniiieUa %mtk, . rttb il «dl tor iaad  let ftkenik 4veBl(y»£Mr 
I1M19.  Take batf^a p6ini  «f  bfe^r  aall»  a.qiwrlcr  ef  af»9«Ml 
M  YMMUDOA  ialt^  ak  oimoeoC  aaltpetfley  kealea  fine»  and  half  <» 
-pomnl  of  409M  augar^  RaballlkeieweUia^aadWAtbenilke 
two  or  thrte  days*  .Then take  conowtt  «klt»  and  iiake#  t tfiwl^ 
lbriae»  wiftk  two  gaJHoaa  of  wiAeri  and.  half  u  fiaiiiid  kA  btovm 
fi^^.  Boilitwett,  wbea  eoU  skhnit^  pM^ki  therkaiiia».aAd 
isra  tkeqi  every  tWo  ar  ifafoe  dajs,  for  Aree'^fedK^.  Uai^ 
'Aenl  op  tn  adiiiiiiiey,  aad  amoke  theai>apaU.a  daf  df  l^i«!P  wilti 
lione  littcf «  Afiterwarda  let  tkara  kaiig  for  a  we^  oa  t)»e  aide 
-of  Ike  kitAen  ckfani^j^  aad  tbea  laki^  dteai  d<MffB« .  Keep  tii^pi 
«dry> -in  a  large  boK»  «daeifed  witk  brkn.  Thty  wiU  Ita^p.-^o^ 
fti  thiB  ata^  for  m  yatefi  thoagb  they  ttay  be  aaedia  a  monlb^r 

Genuine  Westphalia  Hams. 

Wba^ver  may  be  aaid,  tbrpugl^  weakneas  or  prejudice*  it 

^^taonoti  with  trutbi  bedeniedi  that  the  Westphalia  bam8»  made 

.  fr^m  the  vild  boar>  have  a  richneas  aod  flavour  which  cannot 

,  be  ow>pletety  imparled  to  the  flerfi  of  the  fioest  aad  fatteat 

boga«    Many  of  theae,  however*  ar^  certainly  imported  and 

.aold:af  if  they  were  genuine;  aad» ,  though  eaceUent*   froni 

.  being  ourfd  in  the  aam#  ivay«  are  no.  better  than,  aiid  aom^e- 

.  tiw^a  pot  nearly  ao.  good  aair  pur  bee^  English  hama  mig^t 

easily  be,  if  managed  in  a  similar  way.    The  following,  we 

are  assured,   is  the  true  mode  of  curing  the  Westphalian 

hams,  whethcAr  made  with  the  iviM  bkav  or  a  Sue  common  hog : 

'  w^Hatfaig' covered  the  ham  with  dry  salt  ^r.-aday  «^d  night, 

take  a  qnarter  of  a  pisck  each  of  bUy  a^d  tba  fiufst  i:omnpn 

'  aalt^  a'  poand  each  of  Mltpetre  and  moist  sugaf*  a  ^M^rter  of  a 

'panad  each  of  aal  prutaella  and  pounded  Juniper^berriea,  and 

.  an  oaaee  of  soohoiiecl  up  ta  a  rag.    Boil  all  these  iogredie^ta 

'  wall  iagetklsr,  and,  when  Ike  liquor  is.QoU».  put  it  into  tjie 

ham,  wq>ed  cleaa  from  the  salt.  4md  blood*  and  let  it  x^ipi|in 

.  well  eovered  by  tfan  bribe^  for  nearly  a  month,  ^uipning  it  at 

.  least  twice  a  waek  during  that  tifte»    Then*  wiping  it  vrith 

-  dirytrfoths,  mix  together  some  potanded  p^pperi  aalt  awl  brap ; 

mbtlMinfrst  mto  the  tevtties;  aad  then  a)l  over  the  hipii, 

and  hang  it  on  the  side  oi  aehitf^ney  ^ere  wood  only  is  burnt. 


^  Hm  of  fdnigaiioiF^  wdiyvf  If  9WPlMt  hT  oMmnl^ 
from  three  1^  tta  DMUhl^  aoMdiag  Icr  tteHifeofthe  meat, 
^oaMly  of  «9ioke  t^  wjbiob  U 19  i^flEiected^ 


To  hoitHam$. 

If  long.  h«D|;,  p«t  the  hain  ipio  water  a  pigM;  and  let  it 
lie  eithe^ina  hole  dqg  in  the  eai^^  or  on  damp  stones  sprin- 
kkd  withtwMef ,  two  or  three  days,  to  mellow ;  covering  it 
witli,^l|eav3rtiibr  to  kc^p  vermin  from  it.  Wash  well,  and 
pal  it  iota  a.bqiler  with  plenty  of  water;  )kX  it  simmer  foun 
fiv«x  OS  SIX  houns,  aeco^tiing  to  the  si«e.  When  donie  enough^ 
if  befcvre  the  time  of  serviogi  coyer  it  with  a  clean  cloth 
dovUfd^  and  k^ep  thp  dish  hot  over  boiling  wat^rl  Take  off 
ijut  ak^y  ai^  strew  raspings  over  the  ham*  Garnish  with 
cvEol*  Presence  th^  skin  as  ifrhole  as  possible,  to  keep  over 
|he  haqn  when  cold>  which. will  present  it^  drying. 

To  roast  a  Ham. 

Tal^e  off  the  skin,  and  lay  your  ham  in  lukewarm  water 
f^r,twp  op  three  hours.  Then  put  it  into  a  pan,  pour  upon  it 
a  bottle  of  white  wine,  and  let  it  steep  for  ten  or  twelve  minutes. 
When  spitted,  put  sheets  of  paper  over  the  fat  side,  pour  th<< 
wine  in  whicli  it  Wa*  so^^d  ii^to  th(S  drinpiag^pan,  and  b^ste  it 
^l  the  tiipe  it  is  roasting.  When  roasted  enough,  pall  off  the 
ywf^p  and  dredge  it  well  with  cri|inbled  bread  and  parsley 
dired  fine*-  Make  the  fire  brisk,  ,and  brown  it.  If  you  serve 
it  hoty  gam^hit  with  raspings  of  bcpid ;  but  if  cold^  serve  it 
widk  parsley.  ^ 

To  pot  Itams.  ' 

Cut  the  prime  of  a  Westphalia  ham,  (or  any  that  you  may 
^vel]^  the  larder  fro|n  a  late  dinner)  nearly  as  much  fat  as 
l^m;  ,.p0un4  it  in  the  n^ortar  until  very  fine,  put  a  little  fine' 
9pice  to  it)  and  season  it  with  Cayenne  pepper;  pound  a  tittle 
Qiore  by  way  of  mixing  the  seasoning  and  spice,  then  put  it 
isto  pots  proper  for  the  purpose:  clarify  a  sufficient  quantity 
ff  butter*  jpour  it  over  the  hanr,  and  put  the  pot  into  a  slow 
^ven,.  let  it  soak  for  half  an  hour;  then  take  it  out,  and  when 
ijfpki,  fin  ti^e  pots  up  with  clarified  butter,  and  send  it  up  in 
the  pots,  except  at  particular  tiroes,  then  turn  it  out,  aod  gar- 
fiish  it  with  chopped  aspick,  &c. 


194  DOMESTIC  COOKBRT. 

A  Pkkkfm^  Him§,  nngm$p  mt  Be^  ilM  wafl^  kftp  ftr 
yemnt  if  i&ikd  mnd  Mmmtd  imeuiamMlfy* 

To  two  gallons  of  ppring-water  pat  two  poniids  qf  eoafscr 
■agar,  two  pounds  of  bay-salt,  and  two-poands  and  a  half  of 
coinnion  salt»  and  half  a  pound  of  saltpetre,  in  a  deep  earthen, 
glased  pan  that  will  hold  four  gallons,  and  with  a  cover  that 
will  fit  cl^se.    Keep  the  beef  or  hams  as  long  as  they  will  bear, 
before  yon  put  them  into  the  pickle ;  and  sprinkle  them  with 
coarse  sugar  in  a  pan,  firom  which  they  must  drain.    Rub  the 
hams,  &c.  well  with  the  pickle,  and  pack  them  in  close ;  put- 
ting as  much  as  the  pan  will  hold,  so  that  the  pickle  may^ 
coyer  them.    The  pickle  is  not  to  be  boiled  at  first.    A  small 
ham  may  lie  fourteen  days,  a  large  one  three  weeks,*  a  tongue 
twelve  days,  and  beef  in  proportion  to  its  size.    They  witt  eat 
well  out  of  the  pickle  without  drying.    When  they  are  to  be 
dried,  let  each  piece  be  drained  over  the  pan ;  and  when  it 
will  drop  no  longer,  take  a  clean  sponge  and  dry  it  thorough* 
ly.    Six  or  eight  hours  will  smoke  them,  and  there  should,  be 
only  a  little  saw-dust  and  wet  straw  burnt  to  do  this ;  but  If 
put  into  a  baker's  chimney,  sew  them  in  a  coarse  cloth,  and 
hang  them  a  week^ 

A  Piekkfar  the  Pre»ervaiion  of  Park,  TangtuM,  tfc. 

To  four  gallons  of  water  put  a  pound  of  Muscavedo  sugars- 
four  ounces  of  saltpetre,  six  pounds  of  bay  or  common  salt. 
Put  the  whole  into  a  pot,  or  kettle,  and  let  it  boil,  taking  care 
to  remove  the  scum  a6  it  rises.     Take  the  vessel  from  the  fire 
when  no  more  scum  rises,  and  let  the  liquor  stand  ttU  it 
become  cold ;  then  put  the  meat  intended  to  be  preserved, 
into  the  vessel  appropriated  for  keeping  it,  and  pour  upon  it 
^e  preserving  liquor,  covering  the  meat,  in  which  condition  it 
must  be  kept.    Meat  preserved  in  this  manner  has  been  taken 
put  of  the  pickle  after  lying  in  it  for  the  space  of  ten  weeks, 
and  been  found  as  good  as  if  it  hitd  not  been  salted  above  three 
days,  and.  at  the  same  time  as  tender  as  could  be  desired.  The 
pickle  sifter  the  second  boiling  will  keep  good  fortwelve  months. 
*-This  is  an  excellent  pickle  for  curing  hams,  tongues,  and 
beef  intended  for  drying.    Observe,  when  the  meat  is  taken 
oiit  of  the  pickle  for  drying,  to  wipe  it  clean  and  dry,  and  theft 
to  put  it  into  paper  bags,  to  be  hung  up  in  a  dry  place* 


PORK.  125 

Excellent  Baeen, 

Divide  the  liog,  tad  take  the  chine  ont ;  it  b  eommotr  to 
the  spare-ribs,  but  the  bacon  will  be  preserved  be^t^ 
from  being  rusty  if  they  are  left  in.  Stdt  the  bacon  six  days*: 
then  drain  it  from  the  first  pickle  r  mix  as  much  salt  as  you 
jud|:e  proper  with  eight  ounces  of  bay-salt,  three  ounces  of 
saltpetre,  and  a  pound  of  coarse  sugar,  to  each  hog,  1>ut  first 
cut  off  the  hams.  Rub  the  salts  well  in,  and  turn  it  every  day 
for  a  month*  Drain  and  smoke  it  a  few  days ;  or  dry  without^ . 
by  banging  in  the  kitchen,  not  near  the  fire. 

Simeruishire  Bacon. 

This  greatly  esteemed  bacon  is  cured  in  the  following  man- 
ner, daring  dther  of  the  last  three  months  in  the  year.— On 
killng  a  hog,  the  sides  or  flitches  are  first  placed  in  large 
wooden  tfoughs,  and  sprinkled  all  over  with  bay-salt.  Being 
left  in  this  state,  to  drain  alvay  the  blood  and  superfluous . 
juices,  for  twenty-'four  hours,  they  are  next  taken  out,  and 
wiped  very  dry.  Some  fresh  bay-salt  is  now  well  heated  in  a 
bigefrying^'pan;  and,  the  troughs  having  in  the  mean  time 
beesi  well  cleansed  from  the  first  drainings^  and  the  flitches  re- 
placed, thie  hot  bay-salt  b  rubbed  over  the  meat,  till  it  has  ab. 
Borbed  a  suflicient  quantity.  During  four  successive  days,  this 
friction  is  every  morning  repeated;  the  sides  being  turned  only 
twice,  or  every  other  day.  If  the  flitches  are  large,  as  is 
generally  the  case,  they  should  be  kept  three  weeks  in  brine  • 
beii^  turned  ten  times  during  that  period,  and  afterwards  tho- 
xDugUy  dried  in  the  usual  manner  without  smoke.  Unless  the 
bacon  be  managed  strictly  according  to  these  directions,  it  will 
B€¥er  possess  a  flavour  equal  to  Somersetshire  bacon  properly 
cared,  nor  even  continue  long  in  a  sweet  state. 

The  m&nner  of  curing  Wiltshire  Bacon. 

Sprinkle  ^ach  flitch  with  salt,  and  let  the  blood  drain  off 
for  twenty-four  hours ;  then  mix  a  pound  and  a  half  of  coarse 
aogar,  the  same  quantity  of  bay-salt,  not  quite  so  much  as 
half  a  pound  of  saltpetre,  and  a  pound  of  common  salt;  and 
mb  this  well  on  the  bacon,  turning  it  every  day  for  a  month  : 
then  hang  it  to  dry,  and  afterwards  smoke  it  ten  days«  This 
quantity  of  salts  is  suflicient  for  the  whole  hog. 


ISO  DOMESTIC   COOKERY. 

Tin  manner  &f  curing;  W€$iphalia  Bacon, 

Having  ebeseo  a  ftae  side  of  pork,  make  the  Ibllowing  pic- 
kle :  take  a  gaHoa  of  pmnp-waier,  a  quarter  of  a  peek  of  bay- 
salty  tke  same  quantity  of  wirite  salt,  a'poand  of  petre  salt,  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  saHpetre,  a  pound  of  coarse  sngar,  and 
an  ounce  of  soclio  tied  up  in  a  rag.  Bo9  all  these  well  toge- 
ther, and  let  it  stand  t9!  cold.  Then  put  is  the  pork,  let  ft 
Iie'iA  this  pickle  for  a  fortnight,  take  it  Out,  and  dry  it  over  sair 
dust  smoke.  This  pickle  w31  answer  rerj  weH  for  tongues ; 
but  in  that  case,  the  tongues  must  first  fie  six  or  eight  hours 
in  pump-water,  to  take  out  the  sliminess ;  and  when  they  have 
lain  a  proper  time  in  the  pickle,  dry  them  as  pork. 


To  hoU  Bacon. 

The  boiling  of  b&eon  is  a  very  simple  subject  to  comment 
upon,  but  our  main  object  is  to  teach  common  cooks  the  art 
of  dresshig  common  food,  in  the  best  nmnner :  Bacon  is  sometimes 
as  salt  as  salt  can  make  it ;  therefore,  before  it  is  boiled,  it  must 
be  soaked  in  virarm  water  for  an  hour  or  two,  changing  the  wa- 
ter once ;  then  pare  off  the  rusty  and  smoked  port,  trim  it  nice- 
ly on  the  underside,  and  scrape  the  rind  as  clean  as  possibfe. 

To  fry  E^g9  and  Baeon^ 

Lay  some  slices  of  fine  streaked  bacon  (not  more  than  a 
quarter  of  an  inch  thick)  in  a  clean  dish,  and  toast  them  be- 
fore the  fire  in  a  cheese-toaster,  turning  them  when  the  upper 
side  is  browned.  First  ask  those  who  are  to  eat  the  bacon,  if 
they  wish  it  much  or  little  done,  that  is,  curled  and  c^risp,  or 
mellow  and  soft ;  if  the  latter,  parboil  it  first. 

Dripping,  or  lard,  is  better  than  butter  to  fry  eggs  in. 

Be  sure  the  frying-pan  is  quite  clean :  when  the  fkt  is  hot, 
break  two  or  three  eggs  into  it ;  .do  not  turn  them>.,but,  while 
they  are  frying,  keep  pouring  some  of  the  fat  over  them  with 
a  spoon :  when  the  yolk  just  begins  to  look  white,  which  it 
will  in  about  a  couple  of  minutes,  they  are  enough.  The  white 
jnust  not  lose  its  transparency,  but  the  yolk  be  seen'  blushing 
through  it :  if  they  are  done  nicely,  they  will  look  as  white 
and  delicate  as  if  they  had  been  poached,  take  them  up  with  a 
tin  slice,  drain  the  fat  from  them,  trim  them  neatly,  and  send . 
them  up  with  the  bacon  round  them. 


MUTT019.  127 


MUTTON. 

« 

Obierwihni  mi  cuiiing  mUt  ire$Mig  Mntt9n: 

1.  ARE  away  the  pipe  that  runs  along  the  bone  of  the  inside 
of  ft  chine  of  mutton ;  and  if  to  be  kept  a  long  time,  rub  the 
part  close  round  the  tail  with  salt,  after  first  cutting  out  the 
kernel  The  kernel  in  the  fat  on  the  thick  part  of  the  !eg 
dioald  be  taken  out  by  the  butcher,  for  it  taints  first  there. 
The  chine  and  rib-bones  should  be  wiped  every  day;  and  the 
bloody  part  of  the  neck  be  cut  off,  to  preserve  it.  The  brisket 
changes  first  ita  the  breast;  and  if  it  is  to  be  kept,  it  is  best  to 
ruh  it  with  a  little  salt,  should  the  weather  be  hot  For  roast- 
ing, mutton  should  hang  as  long  as  it  will  keep,  the  hind- 
qaorter  especially,  but  not  so  long  as  to  taint ;  for  whatever 
iuhion  may  authorize,  putrid  juices  ought  not  to  be  taken 
into  the  stomach.  For  boiling,  it  will  not  look  of  a  good 
coiowr  if  it  has  hung  long* 

Great  care  should  be  taken  to  preserve  by  .paper  the  fiit  of 
what  is  roasted. 

To  boil  m  Leg  of  Mutton. 

Cut  off  the  shank  bone,  and  trim  the  knuckle ;  th^  put  it 
into  warm  water  for  ten  minntes,  Wash  ft  clean,  cover  it  with 
cold  water,  and  let  It  simmer  very  gently,  anfd  skim  it 
carefully.  A  leg  of  nine  pounds  will  take  two  and  a  half  or 
three  hours,  if  you  like  it  thoroughly  done,  especially  in  very 
cold  weather.    Serve  with  caper-sauce  and  vegetables. 


Lig  of  Mutton  wUh  CmUJlMero  amd  SpinMck. 

Cut  a  leg  of  mutton  venison  fashion,  and  boil  it  in  a  doth ; 
hoil  three  or  four  cauliflowers  in  milkand  water,  pull  them  into 
"pngB,  and  stew  them  with  butter,  pepper,  salt,  and  a  little 
nSXk ;  stew  some  spinach  in  a  sauoe-pan ;  put  to  i^e  spinach  a 
quaHer  of  «t  ptnl  of  gravy,  a  piece  of  butter,  and  floar. 
When  it  iB^lioo|b,  put  the  nntton  in  the  middle,  tiK  apinach 
»Hfliid  it>  luid  the  cauliflower  over  all.    The  butter  the  cawli- 


](28  POMBSTIC  COOKBRY. 

flower  was  stewed  in  mast  be  poured  over  it,  and  it  mast  be 
melted  like  a  smooth  creanu 

To  raasi  a  Leg  of  Mutton. 

A  leg  of  eight  pounds  weight  will  take  about  two  boors : 
let  it  be  well  basted,  and  frothed.  Serve  with  onion  or  cur* 
rant  jelly  sauce. 


To  dreu  a  Leg  of  Mutton  to  eat  like 

Gret  the  largest  and  fattest  leg  of  mutton  you  can,  cat 
out  like  a  haunch  of  venison,  as  soon  as  it  is  killed,  whilst  it 
is  warm,  it  will  eat  the  tenderer;  take  out  the  bloody  vein ; 
stick  it  in  several  places  in  the  under-side  with  a  sharp-pointed 
knife;  pour  over  it  a  bottle  of  red  wine;  turn  it  in  the  wine 
four  or  five  times  a  day  for  ^ye  days,  then  dry  it  exceedingly 
well  with  a  clean  cloth ;  hang  it  up  in  the  air  with  the  thick 
end  uppermost  for  five  days;  dry  it  night  and  momiog 
to  keep  it'  from  being  damp,  or  growing  musty ;  wh«n  you 
roast  it,  cover  it  with  paper  and  paste,  as  you  do  venison ; 
serve  it  up  with  venison  sauce.  It  will  take  four  hours  roasting. 

To  force  a  Leg  of  Mutton.  * 

Raise  the  skin,  and  take  out  the  lean  part  of  the  mutton ; 
chop  it  exceedingly  fine,  with  one  anchovy :  shred  a  bundle 
of  sweet  herbs,  grate  a  penny  loaf,  half  a  lemon,  nutmeg, 
pepper,  and  salt  to  your  taste;  make  them  into  a  forcemeat 
with  three  eggs  an,d  a  large  glass  of  red  wine ;  fill  up  the  skin 
with  the  forcenieat,  but  leave  the  bone  and  shank  in  their  place, 
and  it  will  appear  like  a  whole  leg ;  lay  it  on  an  earthen  dish, 
with  a  pint  of  red  wine  under  it,  and  send  it  to  the  oven ;  it 
will  take  two  hours  and  a  half;  when  it  comes  out,  take  qS 
all  the  fat,  strain  the  gravy  over  the  mutton,  lay  round  it  hard 
yolks  of  eggs,  and  pickled  mashrooms.  Garnish  with  pickks, 
and  serve  it  up. 

To  drees  a  Baunoh  of  Mutton. 

Keep  it  as  long  as  it  can  be  preserved  sweet  by  the  different 
modes :  let  it  be  washed  vrith  warm  milk  and  water,  or  vine- 
gar, if  necessary;  but  when  to  be  dressed,  observe  to  wash  it 
well,  lest  the  outside  should  have  a  bad  flavour  from 


MVTTON.  •  %3fi 

Put  a  paste  of  coane  floar  or  ^;roog  paper^  tod  fold  tke  bavncb 
in  ;  set  it  a  great  distance  from  the  $re^  and  nBow  proportion* 
%Ue  time  for  the  paste ;  do  not  take  it  off  till  about  thirfy-five 
or  forty  minutes  before  serving,  and  then  baste  it  continually. 
Bring  the  haunch  nearer  to  the  fire  before  you  take  off  the 
paste,  and  froth  it  up  as  you  would  renison. 

A  gravy  must  be  made  of  a  pound  and  a  half  of  loin  of 
old  mutton,  simmered  in  a  pint  of  water  to  half/  and  no 
seasoning  but  salt:  brown  it  with  a  little  burnt  sugar, 
and  send  it  up  in  the  dish ;  but  there  should  be  a  good  deal  of 
gravy  in  the  meat ;  for  though  long  at  the  fire^  the  distance 
and  covering  will  prevent  its  running  out. 

Serye  with  piirrant-jj^ly  sfuice. 

To  aiho  Mmtou. 

Cut  slices  out  of  the  middle  part  of  a  teg  of  mutton :  season 
them  with  white  pepper  and  salt,  and  put  them  into  a  ntew-pan; 
cover  the  steaks  with  water  and  a  Ifttle  gravy,  and  add  some 
onions  sliced.  Let  the  stew-pan  be  covered  close,  and  when 
one  side  of  the  b teaks  is  done  enough,  let  them  be  turned; 
thet  a  little  butter,  rolled  in  flour,  should  be  added.  If 
stewed  beyond  twenty  minutes,  the  meat  will  become  hardw 
— This  is  a  very  good  dish  for  a  private  family  where  a  little 
economy  is  necessary.  Beef  may  be  dressed  in  the  same 
simple  way.  Shalot,  garlic,  or  catsup,  maybe  added,  as  the 
family  may  think  proper. 

Neck  of  MuHon^ 

This  joint  is  particularly  useful,  as  many  dishes  may  be 
made  of  it ;  but  it  is  not  advantageous  for  the  family.  The 
bones  should  be  cut  short,  which  the  butchers  will  not  do  un- 
less particularly  desired. 

u  The  best  end  of  the  neck  may  be  boiled,  atad  served  with 
turnips ;  or  roasted ;  or  dressed  in  steaks,  in  pies,  or  harrico* 
The  scrags  may  be  stewed  in  broth ;  or  with  a  small  quantity 
of  water,  some  small  onions,  a  few  pepper  coma  and  a  little 
rice,  and  served  together. 

When  a  neck  is  to  be  boiled  to  look  particularly  nice,  saw 
down  the  chine  bone,  strip  the  ribs  lialf-way  down,  and  chop 
off  the  ends  of  the  bones  about  four  inches.    The  skin  should 

6  S 


130  DOMESTIC   COOKERY. 

not  be  taken  off  till  boiled,  and  then  the  fat  will  look  the  whiter. 
Wben  thete  is  more  fat  to  the  neck  or  loin  of  mutton  than  it  is 
agreeable  to  eat  with  the  lean,  it  makes  an  uncon&monly  good 
0uet-pudding,  or  crust  for  a  meat  pie,  if  cut  very  fine. 

Toroait  a  Shoulder  of  Mutton. 

A  shoulder  of  seven  pounds  weight  will  take  an  hour  aod 
a  half:  put  the  spit  in  close  to  the  shank  bone,  and  run  it 
along,  the  blade  bone.     Serve  with  onion  sauce* 

N.  B.  The  blade  bone  is  a  favourite  luncheon  or  supper 
relish,  scored^  peppered  and  salted,  and  broiled,  or  done  in  a 
Dutch  oven. 

A  Shoulder  of  Mutton  called  Hen  and  Chickeni. 

Half  roast  a  shoulder,  then  take  it  up,  and  cut  off  the  blade 
at  the  first,  joint,  ^and  both  the  flaps,  to  make  the  blade 
round  ;  score  the  blade  round  in  diamonds,  throw  a  little  pep- 
per and  salt  over  it,  and  set  it  in  a  tin  oven  to  broil.  Cut  the 
flaps  and  meat  off  the  shank  in  thin  slices,  and  put  the  gravy 
that  came  out  of  the  mutton  into  a  $tew-pan,  with  a  little  good 
gravy,  two  spoonfuls  of  walnut  catsup,  one  of  browning,  a 
Jittle  Cayenne  pepper,  and  one  or  two  shalots.  When  your 
meat  is  tender,  thicken  it  with  flour  aud  butter,  put  it  into  the 
dish  with  the  gravy,  and  lay  the  blade  on  the  top.  Garnish 
with  green  pickles. 

Shoulder  of  Mutton  en  Epigram, 

Roast  a  shoulder  of  mutton  till  it  is  nearly  enough,  then 
carefully  take  off  the  skin  about  the  thickness  of  a  crown 
piece,  .and  also  the  shapk  bone  at  the  end.  Season  both  the 
skin  and  shank-bone  with  pepper,  salt,  a  little  lemon  peel  cut 
small,  and  a  few  sweet  herbs  and  crumbs  of  bread :  lay  this  on 
tibe  gridiron  till  it  is  of  a  fine  brown ;  and  in  the  meantime, 
take  the  rest  of  the  meat,  and  cut  it  like  a  hash,  in  pieces 
about  the  bigness  of  a  shilling.  Save  the  gravy  and  put  to  it, 
with  a  few  spoonfuls  of  strong  gravy,  a  little  nutmeg,  half  an 
onion  cut  fine,  a  small  bundle  of  herbs,  a  little  pepper  and 
salt,  some  gherkins  cut  very  small,  a  few  mushrooms,  two  or 
three  truiBes  cut  small,  two  spoonfuls  of  wine,  and  a  little 
flour  dredged  into  it.    Let  all  these  stew  together  verv  slowly 


MUTTON.  181 

for  Bve  or  six  minutes,  but  be  careful  it  does  not  boil.  Take 
out  tbe  sweet  herbs,  lay  the  hash  in  the  dish,  and  the  broiled 
opon  it.     Garnish  with  pickles. 

To  boU  a  SK&uider  iff  Mutton  with  OyBter: 

Hang  it  some  days,  then  salt  it  well  for  two  days  ;  bone  it, 
and  sprinkle  it  with  pepper,  and  a  bit  of  mace  pounded  :  lay 
Bome. oysters  over  it,  and  roll  the  meat  up  tight,  and  tie  it. 
Ste^  it  in  a  small  quantity  of  water,  with  an  oni«n  and  a  few 
pepper-corns,  till  quite  tender. 

Have  ready  a  little  good  gravy,  and  some  oysters  stewed 
io  it :  thicken  this  with  flour  and  butter,  and  pour  over  the 
mutton  when  the  tape  is  taken  oflF.  Tbe  stew-pan  should  be 
kept  close  covered. 

To  roast  a  Saddle  of  Mutto^, 

Let  it  be  well  ke]lt  first.  Raise  tbe  skin,  and  then  skewer 
it  ott  again  ;  take  it  off  a  quarter  of  an  hour  before  serving, 
sprinkle  it  with  some  salt,  baste  it,  and  dredge  it  well  with 
flour.  Tbe  ramp  should  be  split,  and  skewered  back  on  each 
side.  The  joint  may  be  large  or  small  according  to  the  com* 
paof :  it  is  the  most  elegant  if  the  latter. '  Being  broad,  it 
requires  a  high  and  strong  fire. 

FtUet  of  Mutton  braised. 

Take  off  the  chump  end  of  the  loin,  butter  some  paper, 
and  put  overit,  and  then  paste  it  as  for  venison ;  roast  it  two 
hours.  Do  not  let  it  be  the  least  brown.  Have  ready  some 
French  beans  boiled,  and  drained  on  a  sieve;  and  while  the 
nratton  is  being  glazed,  give  them  one  heat  up  in  gravy,  and 
lay  them  on  the  dish  with  the  meat  over  them. 

Fillet  of  Mutton  with  Cucumbers. 

Take  the  best  end  of  a  neck  of  mutton,  cut  off  the  under 
bone,  leaving  the  long  ones  on  ;  then  trim  it  neatly,  lard  it,  let 
it  remain  plain,  roast  it  gently,  and  serve  it  up  with  cucum- 
bers or  sorrel  sauce  under  it. 

HanHco  of  Mutton, 

Take  off  some  of  the  fat,  and  cut  the  middle  or  best  end  of 
the  neck  into  rather  thin  steaks  ;  flour  and  fry  them  in  thtir  own 


Ida  DOMESTIC   COOKERY. 

fat  of  a  fine  light  brown,  but  not  enough  for  eating.  Tiien 
put  them  into  a  dish  while  you  fry  the  carrots,  turnips,  and 
onions ;  the  carrots  and  turnips  in  dice,  the  onions  sliced  :  but 
they  must  only  be  wanned,  not  browned,  or  you  need  not  fry 
them.  Then  lay  the  steaks  at  the  bottom  of  a  stew-pan,  the 
vegetables  over  them,  and  pour  as  much  boiling  water  as  will 
just  cover  them :  give  one  boil,  skim  well,  and  then  set  the 
pan  on  the  ,side  of  the  Cure  to  simmer  gently  till  tender.  In* 
three  or  fouv  hours  skim  them :  and  add  pepper,-  salt,  and  a 
spoonful  of  catsup. 

To  ragout  Mutton, 

Cut  some  thin  slices,  the  right  way  of  the  g^ain,  off  a  fine 
leg  of  mutton,  and  pare  off  all  the  skin  and  fat.  Then  put  a 
piece  of  butter  into  your  stew-pan,^and  shake  some  flour  over 
it :  add  to  these  two  or  three  slices  of  lemon,  with  half  an 
onion:  cut  Vei^  small,  a  baaoh  of  sweet  iierbs^  and  a  blade  of 
mace»  Puty^ur  m^at  with  these,  into  the  pan,  stir  them  to- 
getbctfy  foe  five  or  six>  minutes^  and  then  pnt  in  half  a  pint  of 
gravy ,r  with  itn  Bschovy  minoed  smaU,  and  a  fHeee  of  bittter 
rolled  10  flour.  Stir  the  whole  well  t<^ether,  and  when  it  has 
^ewi^d  about  ten  minutes,  dish  it  up,  and  serve  it  to  taUe. 
Garnish  with  pickles  and  sliced  lemon. 

T4  ka^h  Mutton. 

Cut  thin  slices  of .  dressed  mn  tton,  fat  and  lean ;  flour  them ; 
have  ready:  a  littlie  onion  boiled  in  two  or  three  spoonfuls  «f 
water;  add  to  it  a  little  gravy  and  the  meat  seasoned,  and 
nak^  it  hot^  but  notto  boil.  Serve  in  a  covered  dish.  Instead 
af  .opioui  a  clove,  a  spoonful  of  currant-jelly,  and  half  a  glass 
of  port  wine,  will  give  an  agreeable  flavour  of  venison,  if  the 
meat  be  fine. 

Pickled  cucumber,  or  walnut,  cut  small,  warm  in  it  for- 
change. 

Jb  dresM  Mutton  the  Turkish  waif. 

Having  cut  your  meat  into  thin  slices,  wash  it  in  vinegar, 

and  put  it  into  a  pot  or  sauce-pan  that  has  a  close  cover  to  it. 

Put  in   some  rice,  whole  pepper,   and  three  or  four  whole 

onions.     Let  all  these  stew  together,  skimming  it  frequentlyt 


MUTTOM.  133 

Wlies  eoongh,  take  out  the  onions,  and  season  with  salt  to 
yo«r  palate.  Lay  the  matton  in  the  dish,  and  ponr  the  rioe 
and  liqaor  over  it. 

To  dresi  «  Br^ofl  •/  Muticn. 

Cat  off  the  superfluous  fiity  and  roast  and  serve  the  meat 
with  stewed  cucumbers ;  or  to  eat  cold^  cover  with  choppe4 
parsley.  Or  half- boil,  and  then  grill  before  the  fire ;  in  which 
case  cover  it  with  crumbs  and  herbs,  and  serve  with  capes 
sauce.  Or  if  boned,  take  off  a  good  deal  of  the  fiati  and 
cover  it  with  bread,  herbs,  and  seaseniag ;  then  roll  and  boil ; 
and  serve  with  chopped  walnuts,  or  capers  and  butter. 

To  collar  a  brea$t  0/  Mutton, 
Bone  your  mutton,  aud  rub  it  over  with  the  yolk  of  an 
egg ;  then  grate  over  it  a  httle  lemoa  peel,  and  a  nutmeg,  with 
a  little  pepper  and  salt ;  then  chop  small  oil€(  tea-cupful  of  pa* 
pers,  two  anchovies ;  shred  fine  a  handful  of  parsley,  a  few 
sweet  herbs  ;  mix  them  with  the  crumbs  of  a  penny  loaf,  and 
strew  it  over  your  routtou,  and  roil  it  up  tight ;  boil  it  two 
hours;  then  take  it  up,  and  put  it  into  a  pickle  made  as  for 
calf's  head. 

To griU aBreoit of  Mutton. 

Score  a  breast  of  mutton  in  diamonds,  and  rub  it  over 
with  the  yolk  of  an  egg ;  then  strew  on  a  few  bread  crumbs 
and  shred  parsley ;  put  it  in  a  Dutch  oven  to  broil:  baate  it 
with  fresh  butter:  pour  in  the  dish  good  (saper  sauce,  and 
serve  it  up. 

To  roast  a  Loin  0/  Mutton. 

It  will  take  from  an  hour  and  a  half  to  an  hour  and  three 
quarters  to  roast  a  loin. 

Spit  it  on  a  skewer  or  lark-spit,  and  tie  that  on  the  common 
spit,  and  do  not  spoil  the  meat  by  running  the  spit  through  the 
prime  part  of  it. 

Common  cooks  very  seldom  brown  the  ends  of  necks  and 
loins ;  to  have  this  done  nicely,  let  the  fire  be  a  few  inches 
longer  at  each  end^  than  the  joint  that  is  roasting,  and  occasion* 
ally  place  the  spit  slanting,  so  that  each  end  may  get  sufficient 


134  DOMESTIC   COOKERY. 

fire  ;  otherwise,  after  the  meat  is  done,  you  must  take  it  up, 
and  put  the  ends  before  the  fire.  The  most  elegant  way  of 
carving  this,  is  to  cut  it  lengthwise  as  you  do  a  saddle. 

To  rotta  Loin  of  Mutton, 

Hang  the  mutton  till  tender ;  bone  it,  and  lay  a  seasoning 
of  pepper,  allspice,  mace,  nntmeg,  and  a  few  cloves,  all  in 
fine  powder,  over  it.  Next  day  prepare  a  stuffing  as  for  hare ; 
beat  the  meat,  and  cover  it  with  the|stuffing  ;  roll  it  up  tight, 
and  tie  it.  Half-bake  it  in  a  slow  oven  ;  let  it  grow  cold ;  take 
off  the  fat,  and  put  the  gravy  into  a  stew-pan  ;  flour  the  meat, 
and  put  it  in  likewise ;  stew  it  till  almost  ready ;  and  add  a 
glass  of  port  wine,  some  catsup,  an  anchovy,  and  a  little 
lemon  pickle,  half  an  hoiir  before  serving :  serve  it  in  the 
gravy,  and  with  jelly  sauce.  A  few  fresh  mushrooms  are  a 
great  improvement ;  but  if  to  eat  like  bare,  do  not  use  these, 
nor  the  lemon  pickle. 

To  roaU  a  collared  Loin  of  Mutton. 

Take  off  the  fat  from  the  upper  side,  and  the  meat  from 
the  under  side  of  a  loin  of  mutton ;  bone  it ;  season  it  with 
pepper  and  salt,  and  some  shalot  or  sweet  herbs,  chopped  very 
small.  Let  it  be  rolled  up  very  tight,  well  tied  round,  and 
roasted  gently.  About  an  hour  and  three  quarters  will  do  it. 
While  this  is  roasting,  half*boil  the  meat  taken  from  the  under 
side,  then  mince  it  small,  put  it  into  half  a  pint  of  gravy,  and 
against  the  mutton  is  ready,  heat  this,  and  pour  it  into  the 
tlish  when  it  is  served  up. 

To  »tew  a  Loin  of  Mutton, 
Bone  a  loin  of  aged  mutton,  taking  off  the  skin,  and  the 
inside  fat.  Then  stew  it  in  gravy  till  it  becomes  a  good  brown. 
Put  into  the  stew-pan,  with  the  mutton,  two  anchovies,  and 
half  a  clove  of  garlic.  Stew  moderately  till  the  meat  becomes 
tender.  Half  an  hour  before  taking  up,  add  a  few  spoonfuls 
of  port  wine,  and  some  catsup.  Skim  off  the  fat,  and  thicken 
the  sauce  with  butter  and  flour. — if  well  dressed,  this  is  a  good 
looking  dish,  and  in  general  is  approved  of.  It  eats  very  well 
with  venison  sauce. 


MUTTON.  136 

Muiion  Ham. 

Take  a.  hind-quarter  of  muttoD,  cut  it  like  a  ham,  and  rub 
it  well  with  an  ounce  of  saltpetre,  a  pound  of  coarse  sugar, 
and  a  pound  of  common  salt,  mixed  well  together.  Lay  it  in 
adeepiah  tray  with  the  skin  downward,  and  baste  it  with  the 
pickle  every  day  for  a  fortnight.  Then  roll  it  in  saw -dust,  and 
hang  it  in  a  wood-smoke  for  a  fortnight  Then  boil  it,  and 
hang  it  up  in  a  dry  place.  You  may  dress  it  whole,  or  cut 
slices  off,  and  broil  them,  which  will  eat  well,  and  have  an  ex- 
cellent flavour. 

Mutton  CoUaps. 

Take  a  loin  of  mutton  that  has  been  well  hung ;  and  cut 
from  the  part  next  the  leg  some  collops  very  thin«  Take  out 
the  sinews.  Season  the  collops  with  salt,  pepper,  and  mace ; 
and  strew  over  them  shred  parsley,  thyme,  and  two  or  three 
shalots :  fry  them  in  butter  till  half  done ;  add  half  a  pint  of 
gravy,  a  little  juice  of  lemon,  and  a  piece  of  butter  rubbed  in 
flour;  and  simmer  the  whole  very  gently  five  minutes.  They 
should  be  served  immediately,  or  they  will  be  hard. 

Mutton  Cutlets  plain  broiled. 

Cut  the  cutlets  either  from  a  neck  or  loin,  trim  them  neat, 
broil  them  over  the  stove  of  a  nice  brOwn  on  both  sides,  and 
season  them  with  white  pepper  and  salt :  the  dish  should  be 
quite  hot  before  the  cutlets  are  put  on  it,  put  them  round  the 
dish,  and  some  sauce  in  the  middle. 

# 

Mutton  Chops  dressed  in  the  Portuguese  Fashion. 

The  chops  are  to  be  first  about  half  fried  with  sUci^  onion 
or  shalots,  a  bay  leaf  or  two,  some  chopped  parsley,  salt,  and 
pepper ;  forcemeat  then  being' placed  or  spread  on  a  piece  of 
writing  paper  for  each  chop,  it  is  put  in,  covered  with  more 
forcemeat,  and  twisted  closely  up ;  a  hole  being  lei  t  for  the 
end  of  the  bone  to  pass  through.  In  this  state,  it  is  broiled 
on  a  gentle  fire,  and  served  up  either  with  sauce  Robert  or  a 
little  good  gravy. 

To  broil  Mutton  Steaks. 

Cst  your  steaks  about  half  an  inch  thick ;  and  if  it  be  the 
loin,  take  off  the  skin  with  a  part  of  the  fat.    When  your  grid- 


1S6  D0ME$TIC   COOKERY. 

iron  is  hot,  rub  it  with  'fredi  iu«t»  lay  on  your  steaks,  and 
keep  teroing  them  as  quick  as  ipoesible :  if  you  dp  sot  take 
great  care,  the  fat  that  drops  trom  them  into  the  fire  will  smokie 
and  spo3  them  ;  but  this  may  be  in  a^eat  meaaore  preigented, 
by  pkcing  your  gndiron  on  a  slant.  When  enough,  put  them 
into  s  hot  dish,  rub  them  well  with  butter,  slice  a  shalot  very 
flrin  into  a  spoonful  of  water,  and  pour  it  on  them,  with  a 
apoouful  of  catsup.  Serve  them  up  hot,  witli  scraped  horse- 
radish  and  pickles. 

■ 

To  fry  Mutton  Steaks, 

Mix  a  little  chopped  parsley,  thyme,  and  lemon  peel,  with 
a  spoonful  or  two  of  fine  bread  crumbs,  a  little  grated  nutmeg, 
some  pepper  and  salt.  Take '  some  steaks  from  a  neck  or  loin 
of  mutton,  cut  ofF'mostof  thelat,  beat  them  well,  rub  them 
with  yolk  of  egg,  and  strew  thevb.  pretty  tliick  with  the  bread 
and  herbs.  Fry  diem  of  a  nice  brown,  and  serve  them  up  with 
crisped  parsley  in  the  dish. 

Veal  is  Ycry  nice  done  in  the  same  manner. 

To  atew  Mutton  Steaks, 

Take  some  steaks  off  the  best  end  of  a  loin  of  mutton,  or 
some  slices  out  of  the  middle  part  of  a  leg.  Season  them  with 
pepper  and  sidt,  lay  them  into  a  stew-^pan  with  some  sliced 
onion,  and  cover  them  with  water  and  a  little  gravy.  'When 
done  on  one  side,  turn  the  steaks  on  the  other,  andthicken  the 
gravy  at  the  same  time  with  some  flouc  and  butter.  A  little 
shalot,  or  catsup,  or  both  may  be  added  at  pleasure.  Twenty 
or  twenty-five  minutes  will  stew  them  enough.  Long  stewing 
makes  meat  hard. 

• 
Steaks  of  MtUton,  or  Lamb,  andCuoumbers* 

Quarter  cucumbers,  aad  lay  them  into  a  deep  dish,  sprinkle 
them  with  salt,  and  pour  vinegar  over  them.  Fry  the  chops 
of  a  fine  brown,  and  put  them  into  a  stew-pan ;  drain  the 
cucumbers,  and  put  over  the  steaks ;  add  some  sliced  onionsi 
pepper,- and  salt ;  pour  hot  water  or  weak  broth  on  them ;  stew 
and  skim  well. 


r!k 


HVTTON*  lai 

MuUtn  Si€0k$  Maintmon. 

WM'frj,  «tew  them  while  hot,  wHh  herbs,  crumbs,  sod 
Masoning ;  put  them  m  paper  immadiiitely,  and  Anish  <m  tb« 
gridiron.  Be  careful  the  paper  does  oot  catch :  rub  a  bit  of 
butter  on  it  first  to  prevent  that. 

To  main  Rtuck  Si0aki  ef  m  Vi^  tf  MtUtam. 
Let  your  matton  be  vcfry  good  and  large,  and  cot  off  most 
part  of  the  fet  of  the  neck,  and  tflen  e«t  the  steaks  two  inches 
thick  I  make  a  large  hole  through  the  middle  of  the  fleshy 
part  of  every  steak  with  a  penknife,  and  stuff  it  wilh  fierce-' 
meat  made  of  bread  crumbs,  beef  suet,  a  little  nutmeg,  pep- 
per and  salt,  mixed  up  with  tiie  yoke  of  an  egg ;  whea  they 
are  staffed,  wrap  them  in  writing  paper,  and  pat  them  in 
a  Dutch  oven;  set  them .  before  the  fire  to  broil;  (h^  wiH 
take  near  an  hour ;  put  a  little  brown  gravy  in  your  dish,  and 
lenre  them  up  ip  the  papers* 

Rnb  the  chops  over  with  pepper,  salt,  nutmeg,  and  a  litUe 
pusley.  Ron  each  in  hsif  a  sheet  of  white  paper,  well  but- 
tered within-Me,  and  dose  the  two  ends.  Boil  some  hog^s 
lard,  or  beef  dripping,  in  a  stew  pan,  and  pot  the  steaks  in  it. 
Frf  diem  of  a  fine  brown,  then  take  them  out,  and  let  the  fat 
thoron^ly  drain  from  them.  Lay  them  in  your  dish,  and 
lerve  them  op  with  good  gravy  in  a  sance-boat.  Garnish  with 
horse-radish  and  fried  parsley. 

Mutton  Rump$  a-la-Braisi. 

Boil  six  mutton  rumps  for  fifteep  minutes  in  prater,  then 
take  thein  out,  and  cut  them  into  two,  and  put  them  into  a 
stew-pan,  with  half  a  pint  of  good  gravy,  a  giH  of  white  wine» 
an  osion  stock  with  cloves,  and  a  little  salt  and  Cayenne  pepper. 
Cover  them  close,  and  stew  them  till  they  are  tender.  Take 
them  and  the  onion  out,  and  thicken  the  gravy  with  a  little 
butter  rolled  in  flour,  a  spoonful  of  brownings  and  the  juice  of 
half  a  lemon.  Boil  it  -np  till  it  is  smooth,  but  qot  too  thick. 
Then  put  in  your  rumps,  give  them  a  shake  or  two,  and  dish 
them  up  hot.  Garnish  with  horse-radish  and  beet  root.  For 
variety,  you  otay  leave  the  rumps  whole,  and  lard  six  kidoeya 


138  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

on  one  side,  and  do  them  the  sanie  fts  the  rumps^  only  not  boil 
theni^  and  pot  the  rumps  in  the  middle  of  the  dish,  and  kid- 
neys round  them,  with  the  sauce  OTer  all. 

Mutton  Sausages. 

Take  a  pound  of  the  rawest  part  of  a  leg  of  mutton  that 
has  been  either  roasted  or  boiled ;  chop  it  extremely  small,  and 
season  it  with  pepperi  salt,  mace>  and  nutmeg ;  add  to  it  six 
ounces  of  beef  suet,  some  sweet  herbs,  two  anchovies,  and  a 
pint  of  oysters,  all  chopped  very  small ;  a  quarter  of  a  pound 
of  grated  biread,  some  of  the  anchovy  liquor,  and  the  yolks 
and  whites  of  two  eggs  well  beaten.  Put  it  all,  when  well  mix- 
ed, into  a  little  pot,  and  use  it  by  rolling  it  into  balls  or  sau- 
sage-shape and  frying.  If  approved,  a  little  shalot  may  be 
added,  or  garlic,  which  is  a  great  improvement. 

To  drea  Mutton  Rumps  and  Kidneys, 

Bone  four  rumps,  (or  more  properly  called  tails)  fill  them 
with  forced  meat,  and  put  them  in  a  stew-pan  with  about  half 
a  pint  of  best  stock  :  split  six  kidneys,  and  put  them  in  a  stew- 
pan,  cover  them  over  with  bacon ;  put  them  on  a  slow  stove  to 
simmer  gently  for  about  two  hours.  When  done  take  the 
rumps  up  and  glaze  them ;  put  the  kidneys  into  uiother  stew- 
pan  ;  strain  the  liquor  they  were  done  in,  skim  the  fat  from  it, 
and  reduce  it  to  a  glaze ;  then  add  some  coulis,  make  it  hot, 
squeeze  a  lemon  in  it,  and  put  a  little  Cayenne  pepper ;  put  it 
to  the  kidneys :  put  the  kidneys  round  the  dish,  the  sauce  over 
them,  and  the  rumps  in  the  middle.  Garnish  with  paste  or 
croutons. 

To  drtss  Mutton  Rumps  and  Kidneys,  with  Rice. 

Stew  six  rumps  in  some  good  mutton  gravy  half  an  hour ; 
then  take  them  up,  and  let  them  stand  to  cool.  Clear  the  gravy 
from  the  fat ;  and  put  into  it  four  ounces  of  boiled  rice,  an 
onion  stuck  with  cloves,  and  a  blade  of  mape;  boil  them  till 
the  rice  is  thick.  Wash  the  rumps  with  yolks  of  eggs  well 
beaten,  and  strew  over  them  crumbs  of  bread,  a  little  pepper 
and  salt,  chopped  parsley  and  thyme,  and  grated  lemon  peel. 
Fry  in  butter  of  a  fine  brown.  While  the  rumps  are  stewing; 
lard  the  kidneys,  and  put  them  to  roast  in  a  Dutch  oven*  When 


MUTTON.  laO 

the  romps  are  fried,  the  grease  must  be  drained  before  they 
we  pat  oa  the  dish ;  and  the  pan  being  cleared  likewise  from 
the  &ty  warm  the  rice  in  it.  Lay  the  latter  on  the  dish ;  the 
rumps  put  round  on  the  rice,  the  narrow  ends  towards  the 
middle^  and  the  kidneys  between.  Garnish  with  hard  eggs 
cat  in  half,  the  white  being  left  on ;  or  with  different  coloured 
pickjea. 

Mutton  kebobbfd. 

Take  all  the  fat  out  of  a  loin  of  mutton,  and  that  on  the 
ontside  also  if  too  fat/and  remove  the  skin.  Joint  it  at  every 
bone :  mix  a  small  nutmeg  grated  with  a  little  salt  and  pepper, 
crumbs  and  herbs ;  dip  the  steaks  into  the  yolks  of  three  eggs, 
aod  sprinkle  the  above  mixture  all  over  them.  Then  place  the 
steaks  together  as  they  were  before  they  were  cut  asunder,  tie 
them,  and  fietsten  them  on  a  small  spit.  Roast  them  at  a  quick 
fire ;  set  a  dish  under^  and  baste  them  with  a  good  piece  of 
hotter  and  the  liquor  that  comes  from  the  meat;  but  throw 
some  more  of  the  above  seasoning  over.  When  done  enough, 
take  it  up,  and  lay  it  in  a  dish ;  have  half  a  pint  of  good  gravy 
ready  besides  that  in  the  dish ;  and  put  into  it  two  spoonfuls  of 
catsup,  and  rub  dowi»a  tea>epooaful  of  floiijr  with  it ;  give  this 
a  boil,  and  poor  it  over  the  mutton, .  but  first  skim  off  the  fat 
well*    Mind  to  keep  the  meat  hot  till  the  gravy  is  quite  ready. 

An  excellent  Hotch-potch. 

Stew  peas,  lettuce,  and  onions,  in  a  very  little  water  with 
a  beef  or  ham-bone. .  While  these  are  doing,  fry  «ome  mutton 
or  lamb  steaks  seasoned,  of  a  nice  brown  3  three  quarters  of 
an  hour  before  dinner,  put  the  steaks  into  a  stew-pan,  and 
the  vegetables  over  them ;  stew  them,  and  serve  all  together 
in  a  tureen. 

Or :  knuckle  of  veal,  and  scrag  of  mutton,  stewed  with 
vegetables  as  above ;  to  both  add  a  bit  of  butter  rolled  in 
flour. 

China  Chilo. 

Mince  a  pint  bason  of  undressed  neck  of  mutton,  or  leg, 
and  some  of  the  fat ;  put  two  onions^  a  lettuce,  a  pint  of  green 
p^asy  a  tea- spoonful  of  salt,  a  tea-spoonful  of  pepper,  four 


140  DOMESTIC   COOKERY. 

^poonftils  of  water»  and  two  or  ihree^ociiices  of  ctafifi^  butter, 
into  a  stew-pati  closely  covered  ;  simmer  two  hours,  and  serve 
In  th6  middle  of  a  dish  of  boiled  dry  rice.  If  cayenne  ifl  ap- 
proved, add  a  little. 

To  dre$8  ShetpU  Trotien. 

'  Boil  them  in  water,  and  then  put  them  into  a  steW'-pat 
with  a  glass  of  white  wine*  half  a  pint  of  broth,  as  much 
coulis,  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  with  salt,  whole  pepper^  and 
mace.  Stew  them  by  a  slow  fire  till  the  sauce  is  reduced,  then 
take  out  the  hetbs,  and  serve  them  upon  a  grattan. — Bheep'^ 
trotters  may  be  served  with  a  ragout  of  cucumbers. 


LAMB. 


Legaf  Lamb  h^kd^  und  Loin  fritd* 

Out  your  leg  from  the  loin,  and  boil  it  three  quarters  of  an 
hour.  Cut  the  loin  in  handsome  steaks,  beat  them  with  a 
cleavfr,  and  fry  *tb^m  a  good  brown.  Than  sftw  them  a  little 
in  strong  gravy*  fut  your  leg  on  the  dish,  and  lay  your  steaks 
.round  it*  J^our  on  your  gravy,  lay  round  lumps  of  staved 
spinach  and  crisped  parsley  on  every  steak.  Send  it  to  table 
with  gooseberry  sauce  in  a  boat,  and  garnish  with  lemon. 

To  roast  a  Leg  of  Lamb. 

This  joipt  must  be  roasted  with  a  quick  clear  fire.  Baste  it 
as  soon  as  you  lay  it  down,  sprinkle  on  a  little  salt,  and  when 
near  done  dredge  it  with  flour<  It  will  take  an  hour  and  for- 
ty minutes  to  roast  it  well. 

ft 

Leg  of  Lamb  and  Cucumbers. . 
Put  the  leg  on  a  spit,  butter  and  salt  it,  then  paper  it 
and  tie  it  on.    When  done  take  it  up  and  glaze  it :  put  the 
sauce  on  the  dish,  and  then  the  lamb. 


I 

1 

i 

( 


LAJllft.  '  141 

To^rMMl a  F&n-puartir  of  Lamb. 

koMt  it  either  whole,  or  in  sepata«e  purte.  If  left  fe  be 
eoU,  topped  parsley  should  be  sprinkled  over  it.  The  aeclc 
and  breast  together  are  called  a  scoven. 

^^  •  » 

A  Fare-ipun-ier  of  Houu  LtmA. 

A  small  fore-quarter  of  house  lamb  will  take  an  hour  and 

alialf  roasting;  a  leg  three  quarters  of  an  hour.     When  it  is 

doDe^  and  put  into  the  dish,  cut  off  the  shoulder,  and  pepper 

and  salt  the  ribs.    Serve  it  up  with  salad,  brocoli,  potatoes, 

or  mint  sauce.  * 

»  # 

A  Quarter  of  Lamb  forced. 

Take  a  large  leg  of  lamb,  cut  a  long  slit  ou  the  baok  side^ 

and  take  out  the  meat ;  but  be  careful  you  do  pot  deface  th^ 

other  side.    Then  chop  the  meiU  small  with  marrow,  half  a 

pound  of  beef  suet,   some  oysters^   an  anchovy  washed^  an 

onion,  some  sweet  herbs,  a  little  lemon  peel,  and  some  beaten 

mace  and  nuteeg*    Beat  4U  these  together  in  a  mortar,  stuff 

1f»  the  kg  ia  tk«  shape  it  was  before,  sew  it  i^  and  nib  it 

all  over  with  iJhe  y^lka  oi  HP^-  beataii;   spit  i^   flour  it 

aU  over,  lay  it  to  the  fire,   and  baste  it  with  batter*      An 

hoar  will  loast  it.    In  the  v^SMntim^t  tut  the  loin  iato  steaks^ 

season    them  with   pepper,   salt,   and   nutmegs   lemoa  peel 

cat  fine,  and  a  few  herbs.      Fry  them  in  fresh  butter  of  a 

fine  brown,  then  pour  out  all  the  butted,  put  ia  a  quarter  of  a 

pmt  of  white  wine,  shake  it  abeaC,  aad  then  add  hdtf  a  pkft  of 

siroag  gvftvy,  whereia  good  spice  has  been  boiled,  a  quarter  of 

a  pint  of  oysters^  muA  the  liqaoor,  some  maahroomat  mi  b 

spoonlbl  of  the  pidde,  a  piece  of  batter  sailed  in  flour,  and 

Iha  yoik-of  an  egg  beat  fine ;  stir  all  these  togethar  tiU  thick, 

then  lay  your  leg  of  lamb  in  the  dish,  and  the  loin  ronnd 

it.    Pour  the  sauce  over  them,  and  garnbh  with  lemon. 

Bireagiaf.LamhamdCucmmiera* 

Cut  off  the  chine  bone  from  the  breast,  and  aet  it  on  to  stew 
with  a  pint  of  gravy.  'When  the  bones  would  draw  out,  put 
it  on  the  gridiron  to  griU ;  and  then  lay  it  ia  a  dish  on  cncam-- 
bers  nicely  stewed; 


14Jk  DOMBSriC  COOKBRY. 

To  foa§i  a  ShauUkr  of  lamb. 

A  ahonUer  of  lamb  will  take  about  three  quarters  of  an 
hour  to  roast ;  finish  it,  and  put  good  gravy  in  the  dish,  and 
then  the  lamb ;  send  mint  sauce  in  a  boat. 

Shoulder  of  Lambforcedt  foUh  Sorrel  Sauce. 

Bone  a  shoulder  of  lamb,  and  fill  it  up  with  iforcemeat ; 
braise  it  two  hours  over  a  slow  stove.  Take  it  up,  glaze  it ; 
or  it  may  be  glazed  only,  and  not  braised.  Serve  with  sorrel 
sauce  under  the  Iamb. 

Shoulder  of  Lamb  grilled. 

Having  roasted  the  shoulder  till  three  parts  done,  take  it 
up,  and  with,  a  sharp  knife  score  it  in  small  diamonds,  season- 
ing with  pepper  and  salt,  or  if  intended  to  be  highly  seasoned, 
with  cayenne ;  broil  of  a  nice  brown,  and  serve  with  a  good 
coulis  under  it,  to  which  add  two  spoonfuls  of  catsup,  a  little 
lemon  juice  and  butter,  and  place  over  thin  slices  of  lemon. 

Shoulder  of  Ldtmb,  and  Sorrel  Same. 

Take  the  blade  bone  out,  and  fill  up  the  place  with  forced 
meat ;  sew  it  up  and  put  it  into  -a  braise,  and  pat  it  on  the 
stove  to  simmer  quite  slow :  when  done  glaze  it,  put  the  sorrel 
sauce  on  the  dish,  and  the  lamb  on  it:  garnish  with  either 
paste  or  croutons. 

To  fry  a  Loin  or  Neck  of  Lamb. 

Having  cut  your  lamb  into  chops,  rub  both  sides  of  them 

with  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  and  sprinkle  some  grated  bread  over 

them,  mixed  with  a  little  parsley,  thyme,  marjoram,  winter 

savory;  and  a  little .  lemon  peel,  all  chopped  very  fine.    Fry 

in  butter  till  of  a  nice  light  brown,  and  garnish  with  fried 

parsley; 

•  .  . 

To  roast  Rib$  of  Lamb. 

Saw  the  chine  bone  off,  and  cut  Che  chine  bone  from  the 
breast,  skin  it,  cut  the  scrag  off,  crack  the  ribs  across  the  mid- 
dle, put  skewers  cross-ways,  and  put  the  spit  under  the  skew- 
ers ;  it  will  take  half  an  hour  to  roast ;  baste  it  with  butter 
several  times ;  just  before  you  take  it  up,  baste,  flour,  and 


LAMB.  14d 

tall  it;  put  gravy  fai  the  dish:  garnish  with  water-cressea : 
sead  mint  sauce  in  a  boat. 

To  Ml  Grass  Lamb. 

Whatever  the  number  of  pounds  is  that  the  joint  weighs, 
80  many  quarters  of  an  hour  must  it  boil.  When  done,  serve 
it  up  with  spinach,  carrots,  cabbage,  or  broeoli. 

Lamib  Steaks* 

Fry  them  of  a  beautiful  brown;  when  served,  throw  over 
tfaem  a  good  quantity  of  crumbs  of  bread  fried,  and  crimped 
parsley. 

Mutton  or  lamb  steaks,  seasoned  and  broiled  in  buttered 
papers,  either  with  crumbs  and  herbs,  or  without,  are  a 
genteel  dish,  and  eat  well. 

Sauce  for  them,  called  sauce  Robertj  will  be  found  in  the 
list  of  Sau$es. 

Lamb  Chsps. 

Cut  a  neck  of  lamb  neatly  into  chops,  and  rub  them  over 
with  egg  yolk ;  then  strew  over  them  some  bread  crumbs,  mix- 
ed with  a  little  clove,  mace,  white  pepper,  and  salt.  Fry  to 
a  nice  brown,  and  place  the  chops  regularly  round  a  dish, 
leaving  an  opening  in  the  middle,  to  be  filled  with  stewed 
spinach,  cucumber,  or  sorrel. 

Hause-lamb  Sieaks,  whiie* 

Stew  them  in  milk  and  water  till  very  tender,  with  a  bit  of 
lemon  peel,  a  little  salt,  some  pepper,  and  mace.  Have  ready 
some  veal  gravy,  and  put  the  steaks  into  it ;  mix  some  mush- 
room powder,  a  cup  of  cream^  and  the  least  bit  of  flour ; 
shake  the  steaks  in  this  liquor,  stir  it,  and  let  it  get  quite  hot* 
Jost  before  you  take  it  up,  put  in  a  few  white  mushrooms* 
This  is  a  good  substitute  when  poultry  is  very  dear. 

Hatue-lamh  Steaks,  troum* 

Season  them  with  pepper,  salt,  nutmeg,  grated  lemon  p^el, 
and  chopped  parsley ;  but'  dip  them  first  into  egg :  fry  them 
quick.  Thicken  some  good  gravy  with  a  bit  of  flour  and 
butter;  and  add  to  it  a  spoonful  of  port  wine,   and  some 


•V 


144  DOMESTIC  GOaKERY. 

9y 9tera ;  boil  it  iipi,  ajid  then  pat  in  the  steaks  wann ;  let  theai 
heat  up,  and  serve.  You  may  add  palatesi  ballflj  or  eggsb  if 
you  like. 

Lamb  Cutletg  with  Spinach* 

t 

Cut  the  steaks  from  the  loios  and  fry  them ;  the  spinaeh  us 
to  be  stewed  and  put  into  the  dish  first,  and  then  the  euUetA 
round  it. 

Lamb  Cutlets,  toith  Cucumber  Sauce. 

Cut  the  chine  off  a  neck  of  lamb>  cut  it  into  cutlets,  and 
trim  them  neatly :  into  a  stew-pan  put  three  ounces  of  butter^ 
pepper,  saltj  chopped  eschalots^  thyme,  parsley^  and  lemon 
iuice :  melt  the  butter,  and  put  in  the  cutlets  till  three  parts 
done :  take  them  up,  and  when  nearly  cool«  brush  them  over 
^rith  yolk  of  egg, .  sprinkle  with  grated  bread,  and  fry  in 
boiling  lard :  drain  off  the  fat,  and  serve  with  cucumber  sauce 
in  the  middle  of  the  dish. 

Veal  and  mutton  cutlets  may  be  dressed  in  the  same  manner. 

Lamb  Cutkts,  with  mashed  Potatoes* 

Proceed  exactly  as  already  directed  for  encumbers^  instead 
pf  which  place  mashed  potatoes  in  the  middle  of  the  dish. 

LamVs  Fry, 

Serve  it  fried  of  a  beautiful  colour,  and  with  It  good  deal 
of  dried  or  fried  parsley  over  it 

Lamb*s  Head. 

Wash  the  head  very  clean,  take  the  black  part  from  the 
eyes,  and  the  gall  from  the  liver.  Lay  the  head  in  warm  water  i 
boil  the  lights,  heart,  and  part  of  the  liver.  Chop  and  flour 
them>  and  toss  them  up  in  a  sauce-pan  with  some  gravy,  cat- 
sup, and  a  little  pepper,  salt,  lemon  jnioe,  and  a  spoonful  of 
cream.  Boil  the  head  very  white,  lay  it  in  the  middle  of  the 
dish,  and  the  minoe»meat  connd  it*  Place  the  other  parts  of 
0t  liver  fried,  with  some  very  small  bits  of  bacoa  on  the 
ninoe*meat|  and  the  brains  fried  in  little  cakes,  and  laid  on  the 
rim  of  the  dish,  with  some  crisped  parsley  put  between.  Pour 
a  little  melted  butter  over  the  head,  and  garnish  with  leoK>n. 


V 


LAMB.  144 

Lam¥$  Head,  another  wof- 

BoQ  the  head  and  plttck  tender,  but  do  not  let  the  liver  \m 
loo  much  done.  Hack  the  head  cross  and  cross,  grate  some 
notmeg  over  it,  and  lay  it  in  a  dish  before  a  good  fire.  Grate 
8ome  crumbs  of  bread,  some  sweet  herbs  nibbed,  a  little  lemon 
peel  chopped  fine,  a  ver^  little  pepper  and  salt,  and  baste  it 
with  a  little  butter ;  throw  a  little  floor  over  it,  baste  and  dredge 
it.  Take  half  the  liver,  the  heart,  li^ts  and  tongue,  chop 
them  small,  with  about  a  gill  of  gravj  or  water.  8hake  some 
iiour  over  the  meat,  stir  it  together,  put  in  the  gravy  or  water, 
a  good  piece  of  butter  rolled  in  a  little  fiour,  a  little  pepper  and 
salt,  and  what  runs  from  the  head  in  the  dish.  Simmer  all 
together  a  few  minutes,  and  add  half  a  spoonful  of  vinegar ; 
poor  it  into  the  dish,  lay  the  head  in  the  middle  of  the  mince-» 
neat,  have  ready  the  other  half  of  the  liver  cut  thin  with  some 
slices  of  bacon  broiled,  and  lay  romid  the  head.  Garnish  with 
kmon. 

Lamb's  Head  and  Hinge,  . 

Boil  the  head  by  itself  till  it  is  teAder.  Boil  the  liver  and 
lights  till  they  are  nearly  done  enough,  then  mince  them. 
Take  about  half  a  pint  of  the  liquor  they  were  boiled  in ; 
thicken  it  with  a  little  butter  and  flour,  add  a  little  catsup,  a 
little  vinegar,  salt  and  pepper.  Put  in  the  brains  and .  the 
minoe,  and  let  it  stew  a  short  time.  While  this  is  doing,  rub 
the  head,  which  should  be  parted  in  two,  with  yolk  of  egg, 
strew  it  with  bread  crumbs  and  chopped  parsley ;  and  brown 
it  with  a  salamander,  or  in  a  Dutch  oven.  Then  serve  it  up 
with  the  mince  poured  round  it.  The  heart  may  be  seasoned 
and  broiled  if  preferred,  instead  of  mincing  it. 

Lamb'i  Head  minced. 
Chop  the  head  in  halves,  and  blanch  it  with  the  liver^ 
heart,  and  lights:  clean  the  brains  in  warm  water,  dip  them  in 
yolk  of  ^g,  grated  bread,  and  chopped  parsley,  seasoned  with 
white  pepper  and  salt;  and  whilst  the  head  is  blanching,  fry 
them  in  boiling  lard,  and  drain.  Chop  the  heart,  &c.  and  add 
a  little  parsley  and  lemon*peel,  chopped  very  fine,  seasoned 
with  white  pepper  and  salt ;  stew  in  some  coulis  till  tender. 
Wash  the  head  over  with  yolk  of  egg,  strew  over  grated  breads 
6  u 


14i  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

seasoned  with  white  pep^r  and  stdt,  and  btke  gently  till  very 
lender.     Serve  up^  having  browned  the  head  with  a  salamander, 
put  the  mince  uqder  it^  and  the  brains  round  it,  with  rashers, 
of  bvoiled  bacon. 

To  stew  Lamb's  Head. 

In  order  to  stew  a  lamb's  head,  wash  and  pick  it  very  clean. 
]Lay  it  in  water  for  an  hour^  take  out  the  brains,  and  with  a 
^harp  knifii  carefully  extract  the  bones  and  the  tongue ;  but 
be  careful  to  avoid  breaking  the  meat.  Then  take  out  the 
eyes.  Take  two  pounds  of  veal  and  two  pounds  of  beef 
suet,  a  very  little  thyme,  a  good  piece  of  lemon  peel  minced, 
part  of  a  nutmeg  grated,  and  two  anchovies.  Having  chop- 
ped all  these  well  together,  grate  two  stale  rc^ls,  and  mix  all 
with  the  yolks  of  four  eg^.  Save  enough  of  this  meat  to 
make  about  twenty  balls^  Take  half  a  pint  of  fresh  mush- 
rooms, clean  peeled  and  washed,  the  yolks  of  six  eggs  chop^ 
ped,  half  a  pint  of  oysters  clean  washed,  or  pickled  cockles. 
Mix  all  together ;  btxt  first  stew  your  oystets,  and  put  to  them 
two  quai^ts  <if  grSfvy,.  with  a  blade  or  two  of  mabe.  Tie  the 
head  with  packthread,  cover  it  close,  and  let  it  stew  two  hours. 
While  thii  is  doing,  beat  up  the  brains  with  some  lemon  ped 
eut  fine,  a  Httle  chopped  parsley,  a  little  grated  nutmeg,  and 
tbe  yolk  of  an  egg.  Fry  the  brains  in  little  cakes,  in  boiling 
dripping,  and  fry  the  balls,  and  keep  them  both  hot^  Take 
half  atn  onnce  of  truffles  and  morels,  and  strain  the  gravy  the 
bead  was  stewed  in.  Put  to  it  the  truffles  and  morels,  and  a 
few  mushrooms,  and  boil  all  together ;  then  put  in  the  rest  of 
the  brains  that  are  not  fried,  and  stew  them  together  for  a 
minute  or  two.  Pour  this  over  the  head,  lay  the  fried  brains 
and  balls  round  it,  and  garnish  with  lemon. 

Lamb's  Sweetbreads. 

Blanch  them,  and  pnt  them  a  little  while  into  ocHA  wtLter. 
Then  pot  ttiem  into  a  stew-pan,  with  a  ladlefal  of  broth,  some 
pepper  and  salt,  a  small  bunch  of  stoaU  onions,  and  a  blade  of 
tnstce ;  stir  in  a  bit  of  butter  and  fioui-,  and  stew  half  an  boor. 
Have  ready  two  or  three  eggs  well  beaten  in  cream,  with  a 
little  minced  parsley,  and  a  few  grates  of  nutmeg.  Put  in 
some  boiled  asparagus  tops  to  the  other  things.    Do  not  let  it 


t^ter  Ihc^  crettm  is  ia ;  but  niake  k  h^>  and  Mir  k  well  nil 
the  while.  Take  great  care  it  does  not  cardie.  Ycfting  Frenoh 
beans  or  peas  may  be  added^  first  boiled  of  a  beautiful  colour. 

Haahed  Lamb  and  broiled  Bladetlfanei 

Cat  the  blade4>one  from  (he  shoulder  of  lamb,  leaving  a 
little  meat  upon  k ;  score,  pepper,  and  salt  it  *  put  it  on  a  tavt* 
dish;  poor  over  it  a  little  oiled  butter,  end  put  it  into  the  oven 
to  warm  through :  cut  the  other  part  of  the  meat  into  neat 
otAlofM ;  put  a  little .  coulis  saUce  into  a  stew-pan ;  make  k 
hot,  and  add  a  little  mushroom  catsup,  and  half  a  spoonful  of 
eschalot  vinegar :  put  in  the  collops,  set  them  by  the  side  of  a 
stove  to  get  hot,  but  do  not  let  them  boil :  take  the  blade-bone 
<>ot  of  the  oven  ;  put  it  on  a  gridiron  to  brown,  and  put  the 
hoidi  on  the  dish,  and  the  bUide^bone  on  the  middle  of 
the  dish. 

Fricasseed  Lambstones, 

Skin  and  wash,  then  dry  and  flour  them  ;  fry  of  a  beauti- 
ful brown,  in  hog's  lard.  Lay  them  on  a  sieve  before  the  fir^ 
till  you  have  made  the  following  sauce :  Thicken  almost  half  k 
pint  of  veal-gravy,  with  a  bit  of  flour  and  butter,  and  then 
add  to  it  a  slice  of  leiltion,  a  large  spoonful  of  mushroom  cat- 
sap,  a  tea-spoonful  6f  lemon-pickle,  a  grate  of  nutmeg,  and 
the  yolk  of  an  egg  btoten  well. in  two  large  spoonfuls  of  thick 
cream.  Put  this  over  the  fire,'  and  stir  it  well  till  it  is  hot, 
and  looks  white:  but  do  not  let  it  boil,  or  it  will  curdle.  Then 
put  in  the  fry,  and  shake  it  about  nciar  the  fire  for  a  minute  bt 
two.    Serve  in  a  very  hot  dish  and  cover. 

FricasBee  of  LaiiibHones  and  Sweetbreads. 
Have  ready  some  lambstones  blanched,  parboiled,  and 
sliced.  Flour  two  or  three  sweetbreads :  if  very  thick,  cut 
them  in  two.  Fry  all  together,  with  a  few  large  oysters,  of 
a  fine  yellow  brown.  Pour  the  butter  off;  and  add  a  pint  of 
good  gravy,  some  asparagus  tops  about  an  inch  long,  a  little 
nutmeg,  pepper  and  salt,  two  shalots  shred  fine,  and  a  gJass  of 
white  wine.  Simmer  ten  minutes ;  then  put  a  little  of  the 
gravy  to  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  well  beaaten,  and  by  degrees 


148  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

mix  the  whole.     Turn  the  gravy  back  into  the  pan«  and  stir  it 
till  of  a  fine  thickness  without  boiling.     Garnish  with  lemon. 

Lambs'  Rumps  and  Ear$,  brown. 

Scald  an  equal  number  of  each  very  clean';  take  a  pint 
of  veal  stock,  in  which  braise  them  till  half  done :  take  up 
the  rumps^  and  having  brushed  them  over  with  yolk  of  egg, 
etrew  with  grated  bread,  and  broil  gently :  stew  the  ears  till 
the  liquor  is  nearly  reduced,  and  having  now  added  coulis, 
stew  till  tender,  and  serve  with  the  rumps  round  the  ears  and 
sauce. 

Lambs'  Rumps  and  Ears,  white. 

Proceed  as  above  directed;  and  when  they  are  tender, 
end  the  liquor  is  nearly  reduced,  add  a  leason  of  eggs,  and 
serve. 

Lamb's  Bits. 

Skin  the  stones,  and  split  them ;  then  lay  them  on  a  dry 

doth  with  the  sweetbreads  and  the  liver,  and  dredge  them  well 

with  flour.     Fry  them  in  lard  or  butter  till  they  are  of  a  light 

brown,  and  then  lay  them  in  a  sieve  to  drain.     Fry  a  good 

quantity  of  parsley,  lay  your  bits  on  the  dish,   the  parsley 

in  lumps  over  them,  and  pour  round  them  melted  butter. 

.  • 

Lambs"  Feet,  with  Asparagus  Peas. 

It  will  take  twelve  lambs'  feet  to  make  a  dish ;  they  are 
scalded  by  the  butcher ;  take  the  worm  from  between  the  hoof 
first,  then  loosen  the  skin  and  gristle  from  the  shank  bone,  then 
put  them  on  in  cold  water,  let  them  boil  until  the  shank  bone 
'will  draw  out  without  breaking  the  skin,  then  put  them  into  a 
stew-pan,  peel  two  lemons,  cut  them  in.  slices,  and  put  them 
over  die  lambs  feet  to  keep  them  white,  add  about  half  a  pint 
of  good  stock,  cover  the  feet  over  with  slices  of  bacon,  and 
paper  over  that ;  set  the  stew-pan  on  the  stove  to  simmer  very 
gently  for  half  an  hour,  or  until  they  are  quite  tender ;  when 
done  put  them  aside  till  wanted :  put  the  asparagus  peas  into 
a  stew-pan  with  a  little  stock,  put  it  on  the  stove  to  boil  till 
reduced  nearly  to  a  glaze,  add  a  little  beshemell,  and  a*  little 
cream  if  not  white  enough ;  take  the  lambs'  feet  up,  and  lay  them 


^      m^J^t 


FISH.  149 

OD  A  dean  doth,  then  put  them  ronnd  the  diah^  put  a  little 
besbemell  over  the  feet»  and  the  asparagus  peas  in  the  middle: 
garnish  either  with  paste  or  croutons* 

j§  very  nice  Di$h. 

Take  the  best  end  of  a  neck  of  lamb,  cut  it  into  steaks, 
nd  chop  each  bone  so  short  as  to  make  the  steaks  almost  round. 
£ggf  And  strew  with  crumbs,  herbs,  and  seasoning ;  fry  them 
of  the  finest  brown;  mash  some  potatoes  with  a  little  butter 
sad  cream,  and  put  them  into  the  middle  of  the  dish  raised 
high.  Then  place  the  edge  of  one  steak  on  'another  with  the 
naall  bone  upward,  all  round  the  potatoes. 

N.  B.  Directions  for  making  pies  of  the  different  meats  are 
given  under  the  general  head  of  iavaury  pies. 


FISH. 

Obiervati&ni  an  dretting  Fi$h. 

There  is  no  branch  of  cookery  that  requires  greater  ninety 
than  the  dressing  of  fish,  and  at  the  same  time  none  for  which 
so  little  instruction  can  be  given.  In  the  boiling  of  fish  a 
minute  or  two  only  makes  a  material  difference.  Done  to  a 
moment,  it  will  come  to  table  in  its  best  state ;  if  this  point  be 
at  ail  exceeded  it  will  be  breaking  to  pieces,  the  pure  flavour 
ahnoflt  gone,  and  the  fish,  consequently,  rendered  indifferent 
food,  if  not  absolutely  spoiled  as  such.  While,  on  the  other 
hand,  if  it  be  underdone,  it  is  uneatable. 

A  quick  observation  and  constant  practice  are  the  only 
means  of  instruction  to  be  relied  on,  to  dress  fish  thoroughly- 
well.  Whatever  is  said  here,  therefore,  upon  this  subject, 
must  be  considered  as  mere  outline,  not  at  all  as  meant  for 
defined  rules.  Such,  to  be  of  real  use,  must  be  too  tediously 
minute,  either  for  a  writer  to  undertake,  or  a  reader  to  look 
over.    The  variations  of  size  and  kinds  of  fish  are  so  nume* 


150  BOMESTiC  COOKERY. 

toad,  axid  msike  so  essentiftl  a  difference,  where  the  time  must 
be  computed  to  a -moment,  that  positive  directions  mast  be  end- 
less, or  they  could  not  be  appUcable. 

The  best  way  of  dressing  fish,  and  the  wholesomest 
manner  of  eating  it,  is  to  broil  it ;  the  next  best,  to  boil  it; 
9nd  'ftying  it,  the  worst. 

:If  the  fishmonger  does  not  dean  the  fish,  it  is  seldom  vec^ 
nicely  done ;  but  those  in  great  towns  wash  it  beyond  what  la 
necessary  for  cleaning,  and  by  perpetual  watering  diminiah  the 
liavoiir.  Those  who  know  how  to  purchase  fish  msy,  by 
taking  more  at  a  time  than  ihey  want  for  one 'day,  often  get  it 
cheap :  and  such  kinds  as  will  pot  or  pickle,  or  keep  by  being 
sprinkled  with  salt  and  hung  up,  or  by  being  fried  will  serve  for 
stewing  the  next  day,  may  then  be  bought  with  advantage. 

Fresh- water  fish  has  oflen  a  muddy,  smell  and  taste,  to  take 
off  which,  soak  it  in  strong  salt  and  water  after  it  is  nicely 
cleaned ;  or  if  of  a  size  to  bear  it,  scald  it  in  the  same ;  then 
dry  and  dress  it. 

When  fish  is  to  be  fried  or  broiled,  it  must  be  wrapped  in 
a  nice  sofl  cloth  after  it  is  w.ell  .cleaned  and  washed. — When 
perfectly  dry,  wet  with  an  egg,  if  for  frying,  and  sprinkle  the 
finest  crumbs  of  bread  over  it ;  if  done  a  second  time  with  the 
egg  and  bread,,  the  fish  will  look  much  better :  then  having 
a  thick-bottomed  frying-pan  on  the  fire,  with  a  large  quantity 
df  lard  or  dripping  boiling  hot,  plunge  the  fish  into  it,  and  let 
^t'fry  middlingly  quick,  till  the  colour  is  of  a  fine  brown  yel- 
low, and  it  is  judged  ready.     If  it  is   done  enough  before  it 
^las  (Vbtained- a  proper  degree  of  colour,  the  cook  should  draw 
'the  pan  to  the  side  of  the  fire;  carefully  take  it  up,  and  either 
place  it  on  a  large  sieve  turned  upwards,  and '  to   be  kept  for 
4hat  purpose  only,  or  on  the  under  side  of  a  dish  to  drain ;  and 
'if  Wanted  very  nice,  a  sheet  of  cap  paper  must  be  put  to  re- 
ceive the  fish,  which -should  look  a  beantifur  colour,  and  all 
the  crumbs  appear  distinct ;  the  fish  being  free  from  all  grease. 
The  same  dripping,  with  a  little  fresh,  will  serve  a  second  time. 
•Butter  gives  a  bad  colour ;  oil  fries  of  the   finest  colour  for 
those  who  will  allow  of  the  expense. 

•If  fish  is  to  be  broiled,  it  must  be  seasoned,  fioured,  and  put 
on  a  gridiron  that  is  very  clean  ;  which,  when  hot,  should  be 
Tubbed  with  a  bit  of  suet,  to  prevent  the  fish  from  sticking. 


It  mast  be  l^oiled  on  a  very  dear  fire^  that  it  may  not  taste 
ODoky ;  and  not  too  near,  that  it  amy  not  be  scorched. 

Garnish  with  a  friage  of  curled  raw  parsley,  or  parsley 
firied^  which  must  be  thus  done:  When  washed  and  picked,, 
throw  It  again  into  clean  water ;  when  the  lard  or  dripping 
boils,  throw  the  parsley  into  it  inmediately  Crovr  the  water^  and 
ilKtaatly  ill  will  be  green  and  crisp,  and  must  be  taken  up  with 
a  slice ;  this  may  be  dooe  after  the  fish  is  fried. 

When  fish  is  to  be  boiled,  though  all  epiaiona  agree  about 
putting  it  into  a  fish-kettle,  there  are  greet  dissensions  as  to  thst 
state  the  water  should  be  in  when  the  fish  is  put  into  it.  Cold, 
warm,  and  boiling,  have  «U  their  several  advocates.  The 
natafe  of  fish,  w4iich  is  phlegmatic  and  watery,  makes  it  re- 
qaire  eondoisiiig  rather  than  dilating,  and  thus  the  lying  sa 
maeh  longer  in  water,  as  if  must  do  when  put  into  cold  watcr^ 
IS  anfavourable  to  it.  Neither  for  large  fish  does  it  seem 
advisable  to  put  it  into  boiling  water,  as  this  will  have  too 
Middcsn  an  effect  upon  the  outside  before  the  inside  can  be  at 
all  affected.  For  these  reasons  therefore,  the  warm  water 
seems  favourable,  but  for  small  fish,  which  will  be  heated 
through  immediately,  the  boilfaig  water  will  be  preferable. 
All  this  is  suggested,  partly  from  practice,  and  portly  iheoreti« 
c^ly  aoBongst  the  contending  ofHnions  upon  the  subject^  andt 
must  abide  the  decision  of  those  who  are  not  so  bigoted  to  their 
own  notions  as  to  refuse  the  trying  any  fair  experiment,  Th» 
writer  will  readily  enter  into  recognisance  to  adopt  the  cokl 
water  system  when  it  shall  be  sufficiently  proved  to  have  the 
advantage  of  the  others.  A  good  deal  of  salt,  and  occasion- 
ally a  little  vinegar  put  into  the  water,  assists  to  give  firmness 
to  fish ;  but  cod,  whiting,  and  haddock,  are  far  better  if  a  little 
salted,  and  kept  a  day ;  and  if  not  very  hot  weather  they  will 
be  good  two  days. 

Fish  should  be  taken  out  of  the  water  the  moment  it  is  done 
enough.  It  may  be  kept  hot  by  setting  it  upon  the  |^te  o£ 
the  fish-kettle,  over  the  water,  covered  with  a  cloth*  Thia 
will  be  a  disadvantage  to  it,  as  it  will  be  every  moment  getting 
vapid,  but  not  so  great  a  one  as  lying  in  the  water.  Keeping 
it  back  in  the  doing,  as  is  sometimes  practised,  when  the  din- 
ner is  not  likely  to  be  punctually  served  up,  is  a  process  that 
will  always  injure  fish. 


152  DOMESTIC  COOKEKT. 

A  cook  must  make  herself  well  acquainted  with  die  time 
her  fish-kettle  will  require  to  boil  at  a  proper  distance  over  a 
steady  fire,  and  she  may  then  soon  be  an  adept  at  dressing  her 
fish  against  a  given  time ;  nor  must  she  be  blamed  if  this  time 
is  not  attended  to^  and  the  fish  suffers  for  it  first,  and  then 
the  stomachs  of  the  eaters  of  it. 

When  well  done,  and  with  very  good  sauce,  fish  is  more 
attended  to  than  almost  any  other  dish.  The  liver  and  roe 
should  be  placed  on  the  dish,  so  that  the  lady  may  see  them, 
and  help  a  part  to  every  one. 

To  keep  TurhoL 

This  excellent  fish  is  in  season  the  greatest  part  of  the 
I  summer :  when  good,  it  is  at  once  firm  and  tender,  and  abounds 
with  rich  gelatinous  nutriment.  Being  drawn,  and  washed 
clean,  if  it  be  quite  fresh,  by  rubbing  it  lightly  with  salt,  and 
keeping  it  in  a  cold  place,  you  may  in  moderate  weather  pre* 
serve  it  for  a  couple  of  days,  and  it  will  be  in  as  high  perfec* 
tbn  as  at  first. 

ToboilTurhoL 

An  hour  or  two  before  it  is  wanted  to  be  dressed,  soak  it  in 
spring  water  with  more  or  less  salt;  and  if,  at  any  time,  it  should 
not  be  perfectly  sweet,  shift  the  water  five  or  six  times,  and 
put  a  larger  quantity  of  salt  than  usual  in  the  mouth  and  belly. 
The  turbot  kettle  being  of  a  proper  size,  put  the  fish  on  the 
plate,  cover  it  well  with  cold  water,  set  it  over  a  gentle  fire,  add 
a  handful  of  salt  and  half  a  gill  of  vinegar,  carefully  take  off 
the  scum  as  it  rises,  and  preserve  in  every  way  the  delicacy  of 
its  colour  from  injury.  When  it  boils  up,  put  in  a  little  cold 
water,  and  take  out  some  of  die  hot:  then,  almost  immediate- 
ly, add  more  cold  water ;  and,  on  its  again  boiling,  if  it  be 
not  very  large,  take  it  off  the  fire:  for  it  is  a  general  rule,  that 
.  fish  should  never  be  suffered  to  boil  strongly  up.  Boiled  tur- 
bot is  occasionally  served  up  with  many  different  sauces ;  but, 
in  general,  lobster  is  preferred  to  all  others.  This,  therefore, 
in  one  tureen,  with  anchovy  butter,  and  plain  butter,  in  two 
ediers,  is  now  the  usual  style.  A  very  good  lobster  sauce,  for 
this  purpose,  is  readily  made,  by  melting  plenty  of  fresh  but* 
ter,  bruising  into  it  the  spawn  of  one  or  two  lobsters,  with  the 


Ottt  cot  ttn^,  atid  a  spoonful  or  t#D  of  anchovy  liquor,  and 
jast  boiling  it  up.  Th6  pttyper  garnish  fur  a  turbot  ie  sprigs  of 
curled  parsley,  sliced  lemon,  and  scraped  horseradish,  altera 
natel)  placed  round  the  dish.  Sometimes,  however,  it  is  dish- 
ed up,  surrounded  only  with  nicely-Med  smelts. 

To  bake  Turbot. 

Ic  is   but  seldom    that    turbot    is    now    baked,    being 
femid  so  very  e&cellent  when  boiled  in  the  foregoing  sim- 
ple manner ;    fVom  which  the  old  System  of  sweet  herbs, 
^ine,  &t.  is  entirely  dis6ird^,  as  interfering  with  the  natural 
flavour.    The  following  is  the  best  method  of  baking  it.     But< 
ter  the  inside  of  the  dish  which  is  to  contain  it,  and  sprinkle 
it  all  over  with  a  miztui^  of  beaten  pepper,  grated  nutmeg, 
finely  chopped  parsley,  and  a  litde'salt;  then,  pouring  in  A 
pint  of  mountain  wine,  and  having  cut  off  the  head  and  tail  of 
the  turbot,  lay  it  in  the  dish,  give  it  a  good  sprinkling  of  the 
tnaie  sort  of  nlixture  as  the  bottom  and  sides  of  the  dish  before 
Tcceirecl,  and  pour  over  it  another  pint  of  wine.     Stick  small 
bits  of  butter  all  over  the  fish ;  dredge  a  very  little  flour,  and 
strew  plentifdlly  crumbs  of  bread.     When  baked  of  a  fin6 
brswn,  lay  it  on  the  dish  ih  which  it  is  to  be  served  up;  stir  the 
sanoe  in  the  bakihg  dish  all  together ;  pour  it  into  a  saucepan, 
and  shAkfe  in  a  little  flour;  add  a  piece  of  buttfer,  and  tw6 
spoonfuls  of  soy  ot  tetsup,  when  it  boils ;  ahd,  on  its  agaifi 
boilitig,  pour  it  into  a  tureen,  and  serve  it  up.     Thfe  dish  may 
be  garnished  with  scraped  radish  and  slices  of  lemon. 

To  fry  Turbot. 

Having  properly  cleansed  your  Bsh  (which  in  this  mode  of 
dressing  roust  be  small)  and  thoroughly  dried  it,  strew  on  some 
floor,  and  ptit  it  into  youir  pan,  with  a  sufficient  quantity  of 
hot  lard  to  cover  it.  When  it  is  firifed  nice  and  brown,  take  it 
earefully  our,  and  thoroughly  drain  the  fat  from  it.  Ih  the 
meantime  dean  the  pan,  put  into  it  as  much  claret  and  whitb 
win^  as  will  neaHy  cov^tthe  fish,  with  an  anchovy,  salt,  nut- 
meg, and  k  little  ginger.  Put  in  the  turbot,  and  let  it  remaiii 
in  the  liquiir  till  it  is  half  Wasted ;  then  take  it  out,  and  put  in 
a  piece  of  butter  rolled  in  flour,  and  a  minced  lemon.  l,et 
them  suoitner  legtAet  tifl  of  a  proper  thickness,  theti  rub  a  hot 

6  X 


164  DOMESTIC  COOKBRT. 


dish  with  a  piece  of  shalot,  lay  the  iarbot  in  the  dish,  pour 
over  the  sauoe^  and  serve  it  up.  You  may  likewise  add  plaon 
melted  butter  in  a  bason. 

To  boil  Salmon. 
Put  on  a  fish-kettle^  with  'spring  water  enough  to  well 
cover  the  salmon  }ou  are  going  to  dress^  or  the  salmon  will 
neither  look  nor  taste  well :  (boil  the  liver  in  a  separate  sauce- 
pan.) When  the  Winter  boils,  put  in  a  handful  of  salt,  take 
off  tlie  scum  as  soon  as  it  rises^  have  the  fish  well  washed^  put 
it  in,  and  if  it  is  thick,  let  it  boil  very  gently  about  a  quarter 
of  an  hour  to  a  pound  of  fish ;  but  practice  only  can  perfect 
the  cook  in  dressing  salmon ;  a  quarter  of  a  split  salmon  will 
take  almost  as  long  boiling  as  half  a  one.  Serve  witl^  lobster^ 
shrimp,  or  anchovy  sauce. 

To  dress  a  wh^le  Salmon  for  a  large  Company. 

When  the  salmon  is  scalded  and  gutted,  take  off  the  head 
and  tail^  cut  the  body  through  into  slices  an  inch  and  a  half 
thick,  and  throw  them  into  alarge  pan  of  pump  water.  When 
they  are  all  put  in,  sprinkle  a  handful  of  bay-salt  upon  the 
water^  stir  it  'about,  and  then  take  out  the  fish.  Set  on  a  huge 
deep  stew-pan,  boil  the  head  and  tail,  but  do  not  split  thehead^ 
and  put  in  some  salt.  When  they  have  boiled  ten  minutes^ 
skim  the  water  very  clean,  and  put  in  the  slices.  When  they 
are  boiled  enough,  take  them  out,  lay  the  head  and  tail  in  a 
dish,  and  the  slices  round.  Serve  it  up  with  plain  melted  but- 
ter aMd  anchovy-sauce.  Garnish  with  horseradish,  mixed  with 
the  slices. 

To  broil  fresh  Salmon. 

Cut  some  slices  from  a  fresh  salmon,  and  wipe  them  dean 
and  dry  ;  then  melt  some  butter  smooth  and  fine,  with  a  little 
flour  and  basket  salt  Put  the  pieces  of  salmon  into  it,  and 
roll  them  aboiit,  that  they  may  be  covered  all  over  with  butter. 
Then  lay  them  on  a  nice  clean  gridiron,  and  broil  them  over  a 
clear  but  slow  fire.  While  the  salmon  is  broiling,  make  your 
sauce  thus :  take  two  anchovies,  wash,  bone,  and  cut  them 
into  small  pieces,  and  cut  a  leek  into  three  or  four  long 
pieces.    Set  on  a  sauce-pan  with  some  butter  and  a  little 


FISH.  16^ 

tour,  pat  in  the  anchovies  and  leek,  with  some  capers  cut 
flnall^  some  pepper  and  salt,  and  a  little  nutmeg;  add  to  them ' 
tome  warm  water,  and  two  spoonfuls  of  vinegar^  shaking  the 
suice-pan  t)ll  it  boils;  and  then  keep  it  on  the  simmer  till  joa 
tre  ready  foir  it.  When  the  salmon  ia  done  on  one  side,  turn  it 
OD  the  other  till  it  is  quite  enough  ;  then  take  the  leek  out  of 
the  sauce,  poor  it  into  adish,  and  lay  the  broiled  salmon  upon 
it    Garnish  with  lemons  cut  in  quarters. 


f  TV  hroil  drMt  SBiuuntm 

Lay  your  dried  salmon  in  soak  for  two  or  three  hours,  then 
ky  it  on  the  gridiron,  and  shake  over  it  a  little  pepper.  It 
will  tike  but  a  short  tiiHe,  and  when  done  serve  it  up  with, 
melted  butter. 

An  exeeOent  Dish  of  dried  Sdlmem* 

Poll  some  into  flakes ;  have  ready  some  eggs  boiled  hard, 
and  diopped  large ;  put  both  into  half  a  pint  of  thin  cream, 
and  two  or  three  oanoes  of  butter  rubbed  with  ateS'-spoonful  of 
flour;  skim  it,  and  stir  it  till  boiling  hot;'  make  a  wall  of 
mashed  potatoes  round  the  inner  edge  of  a  dish,  and  pour  the 
shove  iuto  it 

To  hake  Salmon. 

Take  a  piece  of  salmon,  of  five  or  six  pounds  weight,  (or 
larger  aoccwding  to  your  company)  and  cut  it  into  slices  about 
an  inch  thick,  after  which,  make  a  forcemeat-thus :  Take  some' 
of  the  flesh  of  the  salmon,  and  the  same  quantity  of  the  meat 
of  an  eel,  with  a  few  mushrooms.  Season  it  with  pepper, 
salt,  nutmeg,  and  cloves,  and  beat  all  together  till  it  is  very 
ime.  Boil  the  crumb  of  a  roll  in  milk,  and  beat  it  up  with' 
four  eggs  till  it  is  thick ;  then  let  it  cool,  add  four  more  raw 
^gs  to  it,  and  mix  the  whole  well  -together.  Take  the  skin 
irom  the  salmon,  and  lay  the  slites  ixi  a 'dish;  Cover  every 
slioe  with  the  forcem^t,  pour  .some  mielied  hiitter  over  them, 
with  a  few  o'umbs  of  bread,'  and  pltfc^  ousters  round  the  dish. 
Pat  it  into  the  oven,  and  when  it  is 'of  a  fine  browh,  pbur  over 
a  little  melted  butter,  with  some,  redwine  boiled  in  it;  and  the 
juice  of  a  lemon,  and  serve  it  up  hot  to  table. 


/^ 


Iiii6.  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

Take  a  larg9  pieee,  toale  and  wipe,  but  don't  if  ash  it :  salt 
iMry  well,  let  it  lie  till  the  salt  is  melted  and  drained  from  it, 
t^i^  season  with  beaten  maoe,  dor  eg,  and  whole  pepper :  lay 
in  a  ibw  bay  leavee,  put  it  close  into  a  pan,  cover  it  over  with 
butter,  and  bake  it;'  when  well  done,  drain  It  from  the  gravy, 
put  U  into  the  pota  to  keep,  and  when  cold  cover  it  with  clari- 
fied butter.     In  this  manner  you  may  do  any  firm  fiah* 

ft 

f  TaM^  a  »de  of  salmon^  cut  off  the  tail,  then  waah  the 
ifsh^  part  well,  and  dry  it  with  a  eloth^  Bub  it  over  with  the 
yolH^  of.egg^  und  make  some  forcemeat  with  what  you  cut 
off  at  the  tail  end.  Take  off  the  skin  and  put  to  it  some  par*. 
boiled  oysters,  a  tail  or  two  of  lobsters,  the  yolks  of  three  or 
four  eggs  boiled  hard,  siK  anchovies,  a  handful  of  sweet  herbs 
c)^opp^  smaH,  a  little  salt,  doves,  mace,  nutmeg,  pepper, 
tfiA  grated  bread.  Work  all  these  well  together,  with  yolks  of 
qgg4>  lay  it  over  the  fleshy  part,  and  strew  on  it  a  little  pepper 
4nd  ^U.  Then  rpll  it  up  into  a  collar,  and  bind  it  with  broad 
^tP*.  Bo^ittipi^ati^i', , salt,  v^nd  vinegar;  b^it  let  th^  liquor 
boil  before  you  put  it  in,  and  throw  in  a  bunch  of  ^weet-sherhs,* 
with  some  sliced  ginger  and  nqtmeg.  Let  it  boil  geritly  near 
two  hours,  and  then  take  it  up.  Put  it  into  a  pan,  and  when 
t))e  pickle  is  cold>  put  it  to  yout  salmon,  and  let  it  lay  id  it' till 
wan^.  If  ypu  c^ver  it  with  clarified  butter,  it  will  keep  «[ 
eoniE^derahle  ti;ne. 

To  dry  Sahnon. 

Cut  the  fish  4own,  take  out  the  inside  and  roe.  Uttb.tbe 
yhqle  with  coKiqion  9alt  after  scsling  it .;  let  it  hang  twenty- 
fyixr  hours  to  draii^  Pound  three  or  four  ounces  of  saltpetre> 
iiccording  to  the  si^  of  the  fish,  two  ounces  of  bay  salt,  and 
two  oun^^  of  goar^  ipugar ;  rub  the^»  when  mixed  well,  into 
the  si^lipon,  and  lay  it  on  %  large  dish  or  tray  two  days,  then 
rub  it  wfll  with  common  salt,  and  in  twenty -four  ho^ra  more 
if  will  be  fit  to  dry ;  wipe  it  well  after  draining.  Hang  it  either 
in  a  wopd  (shimney,  or  in  a  dry  place ;  keeping  it  open  with 
two  small  sticks^ 


Dried  aalmon  10  eatm  broi1f4  in  p^per,  and  oidy  jn*!  w«rin« 
^  trough ;  tgg  aftqce  mid  oiiub^d  poUtpes  mib  it ;  or  it  tmy 
Ipe  boiMU  ^liKciaUy  the  bii  next  th^  bend* 

To  pickle  Salman, 

After  scaling  and  cleaning,  split  the 'salmon,  and  divide  it 

into  mich  pieces  as  you  choose^  lay  it  in  the  kettle  to  fill  the 

bottom^  and  as  much  water  as  will  cover  it ;  to  three  quarts 

puf  a  pint  of  vinegar,  a  handful  of  salt,  twelve  bay  leaves, 

six  blades  of  mace,  and  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  black  pepper. 

When  the  salmon  is  boiled  enough,  drain  it  and  put  it  on  a 

dean  cloth,  then  put  more  salmon  into  the  kettle,  and  pour 

the  liquor  npon  it,  and  so  on  till  all  is  done.     After  this,  if 

&e  pickle  be  not  smartly  flavoured  with  the  vinegar  and  salt, 

luid  more,  and  boil  it  quick  three  quarters  of  an  hour.     When 

all  is  cold,  pack  the  fish  \p  sopnething  deep,  and  let  ^there  be 

enough  of  pickle  to  plentifully  cover.     Preserve  it  from  the 

air.    The  liquor  must  be  drained  iVom  the  fish,  and  occasion- 

aUy  boiled  and  skimmed. 

Aierdien  Method  of  piokKng  Sahnon. 

Boil  salmon,  as  if  intended  immediately  ibr  the  table,  in 
water  mixed  "with  a  good  quantity  of  cbmmon  salt,  then  lay  it 
to  drain,  till  cold,  in  the  open  air.  Afterwards  put  it  in  a 
close  cask  or  pot,  with  a  gal)pn  of  vitiegar  to  thirty  pounds  of 
salmon,  and  half  the  <fUaiitity  of  water  in  which  the  fish  was 
boiled.  Great  care  must  be  used  m  taking  off  the  scum  as  it 
rises,  during  the  whole  time  the  salmon  is 'boiling,  whidi 
should  on  no  account  be  overdone. 

^  ToboilCo*, 

Wash  and  clean  the  fish,  and  rub  a  little  salt  ih  the  inside 
of  it;  (if  the  weather  is  very  cold,  a  larg^  cod  is  the  better  for 
being  kept  a  day :)  put  plenty  of  water  in  your  fish-kettle,  so 
ftatthe  fish  may  be  well  covered;  put  in  a  large  handful  of 
salt:  and  when' -it  is  dissolved,  put  in  your  fish;  a  very  small 
fish  will  require  from  fifteen  to  twenty  o^inutes,  af^er  the  water 
boils ;  large  ones  about  half  an  hour.  Drain  it  on  the  fish  plate; 
mh  it  with  a  gailiish  of  the  roe,  liver^  chiiterlings,  &c. 


158  DOMESTIC  COOKERr« 

The  sounds,  the  jelly  parts  about  die  jowl^  the  palate,  and 
the  tongue,  are  highly  esteemed  by  piscivorous  epicures.  The 
carver's  reputation  depends  much  on  his  equitable  distribution 
of  them. 

To  boU  Slices  of  Cod. 

Half  an  hour  before  you  dress  them,  put  them  into  cold 
spring  water  with  some  salt  in  it.  Lfay  them  at  the  boltom  of 
a  fish-kettle,  with  as  much*  cold  spring  water  as  will  cover 
them,  and  some  salt ;  set  it  on  a  quick  fire,  and  when  it  boils> 
skim  it,  and  set  it  on  one  side  of  the  fire  to  boil  very  gently, 
for  ab()ut  ten  minute^  according  to  its  size  and  thickness. 
Garnish  with  scraped  horseradish,  slices  of  lemon,  and  a  slice 
oi  the  liver  on  one  side,  and  chitterlings  on  the  other.  Serve 
with  oyster  sauce  and  plain  butter.  • 

To  broil  Cod. 

Cut  the  cod  into  slices  about  two  inches  thick,  and  dry  and 
flour  them  well.  Make  a  good  clear  fire,  rub  the  gridiron  with 
a  piece  of  chalk,  and  set  it  high  finpm  the  fire.  Then  put  in 
your  slices  of  Ash,  turn  them  often,  and  let  them  brown  till 
they  are  of  a  fine  brown  colour.  Great  care  must  be  taken  in 
turning  them  that  they  dp  not  break.  When  done  serve  them 
up  with  lobster  and  shrimp  sauce. 

To  stew  Cod.  ^ 

Cut  some  slices  of  cod,  as  for  boiling,  and  season  them  with* 
grated  nutmeg,  pepper,  salt,  and  sweet  herbs.  Put  them  into  a 
stew-pan  with  half  a  pint  of  white  wine,  and  a  quarter  of  a  pint 
of  water.  Cover  them  close,  and  let  them  simmer  for  five  or  six 
minutes.  Then  squeeae  in  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  and  add  a  few 
oysters  with  their  liquor  strained,  a  piece  of  butter  rolled  in 
flour,  and  a  Uade  or  two  of  mace.  Let  them  stew  very  gently, 
and  frequently  shake  the  pan  to  prevent  its  burning.  When 
the  fish  is  done,  take  out  the  onion  and  sweet-herbs^  lay  the 
cod  in  a  warm  dish,  and  strain  the  sauce  over  it. 

ToboUCod^sHead. 

Take  out  the  gills  and  the  blood,  wash  the  whole  *  very 
dean,  rub  over  it  a  little  salt,  and  a  glass  of  alegar,  and 


FISH.  itt 


kj  on  your  fish-plate.    When  the  water  boQs,  thi^w  in  a  good 

handful  of  salt,    with  a  glaaa  of  alegar.    Then  pat  in  the 

fish,  and  let  it  boil  gendy  half  an  hour  (if  it  is  a  large  one  threa 

4]aarters.)    Take  it  up  very  carefully,  and  strip  the  skin  dean 

off,  aet  it  before  a  brisk  fire»  dredge  it  all  over  with  ilottr.  and 

biste  it  well  with  butter.    When  the  fioth  begins  to  rise,  throw 

o?er  itsome  fine  bread  crumbs,  and  continue  basting  it,  to  make 

it  fiDth  well.    When  it  is  of  a  fine  light  brown,  dish  it  up,  and 

garnish  it  with  lemon  cut  in  slices,  scraped  horseradish,  baiw 

berries,  a  few  small  fish  fried  and  laid  round  it,  or  fried  oysters. 

Cut  the  roe  and  liver  in  sUceSy  and  lay  it  over  a  little  of  the 

lumpy  part  of  the  lobster  out  of  the  sauce,  which  you  must 

make  as  follows:  Take  a  good  lobster,  and  stick  a  skewer  in 

the  vent  of  the  tail,  to  keep  out  the  water.    Throw  into  the 

water  a  handful  of  salt,  and  when  it  boils  put  in  the  lobster, 

which  will  be  done  in  half  an  hour.    If  it  has  spawn,  pick 

them  off,  and  pound  them  very  fine  in  the  mortar.     Put  them 

into  half  a  pound  of  good  melted  butter ;  then  take  the  meat 

out  of  your  lobster,  break  it  in  bits,  and  put  that  in  likewise* 

with  a  large  spoonful  of  lemon  pickle,  the  same  of  walnut  cat* 

sop,  a  slice  of  lemon,  one  or  two  slices  of  horseradish,  and  a 

small  quantity  of  beaten  mace ;  season  it  to  your  taste  with  sail 

and  Cayenne  pepper.    Boil  them  one  minute,  then  take  out 

the  horseradish  and  lemon,  pour  it  into  your  sauce*boat,  and 

serve  it  up  with  your  fish.    If  lobsters  cannot  be  procured,  you 

may  make  use  of  oysters.or  shrimps  the  same  way;  and  if  you 

eannot  get  any  kind  of  shell  fish,  you  may  then  add  to  the  buU 

ter  two  anchovies  cut  small,  a  spoonful  of  walnut  liquor,  and 

an  onion  stuck  with  cloves. 

To  hake  Cod's  Head. 

When  it  is  thoroughly  cleansed  and  washed,  lay  it  in  the 
dish,  which  you  must  first  rub  round  with  butter.  Put  in  a 
bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  an  onion  stuck  with  cloves,  three  or  four 
blades  of  mace,  some  black  and  white  pepper,  a  notm^ 
bruised,  a  little  lemon  peel,  a  piece  of  hcnrseradish,  and  a  quart 
of  water.  Dust  the  head  with  flour,  grate  a  little  nutmeg 
over  it,  stick  bits  of  butter  on  various  parts,  and  sprinkle 
raspings  all  over  it,  and  send  it  to  the  oven.  When  done,  take 
the  head  out  of  the  dish,  and  put  it  into  that  it  is  to  be  served 


IM  DOMESTIC  COOKBRT. 

ip  in.  iet  Ae  disb  ^vei^  tioillAg  water,  ftttd  cor&t  it  do6#  t<> 
pivvent  ks  g«€tiilg  cdld.  In  tbe  ttieali  titnii,  as  tixpedttiously 
tt'ydu  oin>  pour  all  the  liqilor  out  of  the  dish  in  iivhich  it  if^a» 
bdced  ii)to  a  s&uce-pati,  aiid  let  it  bdil  thVee  or  fbur  minutes  ; 
Aon  tftraih  i%  txid  put  to  it  a  gill  Of  red  WiAe^  two  spoohfultf 
of  eal8itp>  a  pitit  of  shfifnpA,  bblf  a  pint  of  oysters,  a  spooti-^ 
fbl  of  mushroom  pickle,  aild  a  quartern  of  butte)^  rolled  iii 
Aour.  Stir  dl  well  together,  and  let  it  boil  till  it  is  thick  ; 
tfien  straiti  it,  and  pou)^  it  into  the  dish.  Have  readj  some ' 
tOUsted  ht«ad  cut  Ihiree  comer  ways,  and  fried  trisp.  Sti^k 
some  pieces  of  toast  about  the  h^ad  And  mouth,  add  lay  tjiii 
teikidinder  round  the  head.  Oartiish  your  dish  with  crisped 
parsley,  lemon  notched,  and  scrkped  horseradish.  This 
ttldhod  is  equally  good  folr  roastinif. 

To  dr€$i  a  Cod's  Jhil. 

The  tail  Of  a  cod  cut  in  fillets,  or  slices,  and  fried,  miikes  A 
gpood  dish,  and  generally  to  be  bought  at  a  very  reasonable 
rate:  if  boiled,  it  is  soft  and  watery.  The  skull  and  tail  of  k 
cod  i^  a  fkvourite  and  excellent  Scotch  dish,  stewed  and  served 
«ip  with  anchovy  or  oyster  sauce,  with  the  liquor  it  is  bofled  in, 
in  a  tureen. 

Crimp  Cod. 

T$ke  n  g^lon  of  sprihg  water,  put  it  into  ft  sauce-paft 
ever  the  fire,  and  thi^w  ih  a  handful  of  salt.  Boil  it  uf» 
sevefal  times,  and  keep  it  dean  scummed.  When  it  is  well 
dear^  from  the  scum,  take  a  niiddling  sised  cod,  as  fresh  as 
possible,  and  put  it  into  some  fresh  pump  water.  Let  it  li^ 
a  few  minutes,  and  then  cut  it  into  slices  about  two  inches 
thick.  Throw  these  into  the  boiling  brine,  and  let  them 
bdil  briskly  a  tew  miuutes.  Then  take  the  slices  out  With  great 
aste  that  they  may  not  break,  and  put  them  on  a  sieve  to  drain. 
When  they  are  weU  dried,  flour  them,  and  lay  them  at  a  dis- 
iftnce  upon  a  very  good  fire  to  broil.  Wheft  enough^  serve 
them  up  With  lobster,  shrimp,  or  oyster  sauce. 

To  boil  Cod  Somtub. 
Soak  them  in  warm  water  half  an  hour,  then  scrape  and 
elean;  and  if  to  be  dressed  winie,  boil  them  in  iMBk  and 


■;  when  tender,  serve  them  in  a  napkin,  with  egg  sauce. 
The  mlA  nrasft  not  be  itiiieh;  soaked  oiit»  luileflft  fbr  &ica«M- 

749  biril  Cod-wtuuU  to  look  like  Chickens. 

Bott  ytmr  eoandii  WeU>  but  be  careful  thejr  ave  not  done  too 
Wick  Tidtelh^m  up,  and  )et  Iheib  stand  tiU  th^  am  <|«iita 
cold.  Then  nud^e  a  forcemeat  of  chopped  oy8(c»8»  crumbs  of 
bread,  a  lump  of  butter,  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  nutmeg,  pep- 
per, and  salt,  and  till  ybtir  sounds  with  Jt.  Skewer  them  in 
Aeibspeof  a9bicke%'  and  lardtbemdolirq  eaoh  side,  aa  you 
weald ehidnHis«  Aist.tham; .well  with  floi^r,  ^d  put  thetn 
brfm  the  live  i|i  a  iSQ<.>avie0  ^'roast*  .  Bsste  them  well  with' 
belter^, ahd  when  eoeiifK* :potir ♦q  them  oyster  sauee»  and  far«f 
lish  with  bwrberries.  rTbift  is  A  i>i^tty  side  dish  for  a.  hii^ 
tihle ;  onvery.fMropeirin  tfae^itne  of  Lent. 

To  fricauee  'Cod'W%nds> 

Having  properly  cleaned  them,  cut  them  into  smaU  pieces, 
boil  them  in  milk  alkd  Waiter,  and  set  them  to  drain. 
Tbsn  put  Ifaen  kilo  aiciieah^iieeffKin,  and  seasoft  them  with 
Wucn.  mace,'  grated  nutmeg,  and  a  little  pef^r  and  saU» 
Add  to  th^kn  a  cupfAli  of  'cream,  with  a  gik>4  piece  of  butter 
rolled  in  flour,  and  keep  shaking  the' wbel^.uU  it  is  thoroughly 
^  snd  of  a  gded  tiiickaess.  Th^n  {iQur  all.  into  your  dish, 
nd  MTvfe  itfip,  with^itslieed  kmon  for  giirnish. 

•  To.  broil  Cod-sounda. . 

Scald  in  hot  water,  rub  w^ll  with  salt,  pull  off  the  dirty 
Am,  Slid  put  them  to-liinmer  till  tendts:  take  them  out,  flour, 
and  hfoil  While  this  is  b^ng  done,  season  a  little  brown 
gnvy  with  pejiper,  sah;  a  te»«sp<ieDfi|l  of  soy,  and  a  little 
kuiiterd:-^ve  it  a  boil  with  a  hit  of  floHr  and  butter,  ao4 
pour  it  over  the  sounds. 

Cod-'oound*  lUgbui. 

Prepene  as  ahev^ :  ,tlieil  stfe^  them  in  white  gravy  seasened, 
eresm,  butter,  and  a  little  bit  ef  iBeur  tfdded  before,  you  serve, 
gently  boiiing  up.  A  bk  of  len^en  peel,  nutiiieg,  liod  the  kasl 
potmdbd  maoei  ahtfuld^ve  the  flavoitr. 


Idt  DOMESTIC  C0OK1&RY. 

Currie  of  Cad* 

This  sboald  be  made  cyf  sliced  ood>  that  has  eithdr  been 
crimped  or  sprinkled  a  dtky,  to  make  it  firm.  Fry  it  of  a  fine 
brown  with  onions ;  and  stew  it  with  a  good  white  gravy,  a 
little  currie  powder,  a  bit  of  butter  and  floar,  three  or  four 
dpotonfhls  of  rich  cream^  salt,  and  cayenne^  if  the  powder  be 
not  hot  enough. 

.  ^  To  dress  Salt  Cod. 

Souk  and  clean  the  piece  you  mean  to  dress,  then  lay  it  all 
night  in  water,  with  a  glass  of  vioegalr.  Boil  it  enough,  then 
break  it  into  flakes  on  the  dish ;  pour  over  it  parsnips  boiled, 
beaten  in  a  mortar,  and  then  boil  up  with  cream  and  a  iarge 
piece  of  butter  rubbed  with  a  bit  of  flour.  It  may  be  served 
as  above,  with  egg  sauce  instead  of  the  parsnip,  and  the  root 
sent  up  whole :  or  the  fish  may  be  boiled  and  sent  up  without 
flaking,  and  sauces*  as  above. 

.To  boil  Sturg6»H»  . 

Hiiving  deaned  a  sturgeon  w«ll,  boil  it  ini  as  uudi  liquor  as 
will  just  cover  it ;  add  two  or  three  bits  of  lemon  peel,  some 
whole  pepper,  a  stick  of  horseradish,  and  a  pint  of  vinegar  to 
every  half  gallon  of  water. 

When,  done,  garnish  the  dish  with  fried  oysters,  sliced 
lemon,  and  horseradish,  and  serve  it  up  with  .melted  butter, 
with  cavear  dissolved  in  it ;  or  with  anchovy  sauce ;  and  with 
the  body  of  a  crab  in  the  butter,  and  a  little  lemon  juice* 

'To  roast  Sturgeon. 

Put  it  on  a  lark*spit,  then  tie  it  on  a  large  spit;  baste  it 
constantly  with  butter,  and  serve  with  a  good  gravy,  an  an- 
chovy, a  squeeze  of  Seville  orange  or>  lem<H],  and  a  glass  of 
sherry. 

To  roast  Sturgeon^  another  Uiay. 
Put  a  piece  of  butter,  rolled  in  flour,  into  a  stew-pan  with 
fbur  cloves,  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  two  onions,  some  pe^ptf 
and  salt,  half  a  pint  of  w  ater,  and  a  glass  of  vinegar.  Stir  it 
over  the  fire  till  hot;  then  let  it  become  lukewarm,  and  steep 
the  fish  in  it  an  hour  or  two.    Butter  a  paper  well,  tiait  round, 


iciiovy 


FISH.  163 

letting  the  spit  rtm  throiigh/    Senre  with 


To  hroil  Siwrgeonp 

Cat  it  a0  CQtieli ;  rob  the  bars  of  the  gridiron  with  a  bit 
of  rfaine  of  bacon,  then  wipe  the  bars  with  a  clean  cloth,  and 
rub  th(  bars  again  with  a  bit  of  fiit  bacon ;  then  put  on 
the  sturgeon  ;  pefqaer  and  salt  it ;  when  the  underside  is  brown 
torn  it,  and  season  it  on  the  other  side ;  when  done  dish  it 
immd  tlie  dish ;  pat  a  little  chopped  shalot  into  a  stew-pan^  a 
little  chopped  mushroom,  and  a  few  spoonfuls  of  good  stock ; 
let  it  over  the  atove  to  simmer  gentlj,  pot  about  half  an  ounce 
of  batter  in  and  a  little  floor ;  it  should  not  be  near  so  thick  as 
ooolis;  do  not  pour  the  sauce  over  it,  but  put  it  ia  the  middle 
of  the  dish. 

*  To  bake  Sturgeon. 

Pat  the  stuigeon  in  a  marinade  made  as  follows:  about 
balf  a  pint  of  vinegar,  half  a  pint  of  sherry  wine,  three  or 
four  onions  cut  in  thin   slices,  a  few  eweet  herbs,  such  as 
oruge  and  lemon  thyme,  a  little  basil,  sweet  marjoram,  par- 
dey,  half  a  di^sen  of  whole  shalots,  two  heads  of  celery  after 
bdng  trimmed,  cut  in  small  pieces ;  cut  the  skin  off  the  stur- 
geon, and  put  the  sturgeon  in  an  earthen  dish,  and   pour  the 
marinade  over  it;  then  put  the  skin. that  you  have  just  taken 
off  over  tlie  sturgeon  ;  this  should  be  done  the  day  before  want- 
ed, if  you  can  have  the  sturgeon,  as  its  lying  all  night  in  the 
marinade  ia  a  very  great  improvement  to  the  flavour  of  the 
fi&h;  before  it  is  put  in  the  oven,  put  about  a  pint  of  good 
stock  in  the  dish,  and  cover  the  sturgeon  over  with  fat  bacon, 
and  place  the  skin  ofthe  sturgeon  over  the  bacon ;  put  it  in  a  slow 
oven  to  do  gently ;  the  time  it  will  take  depends  on  the  size ; 
when  done  pour  off  the  liquor,  and  put  the  sturgeon  in  the 
screen  to  keep  hot  until  wanted ;  skim  the  fat  off  the  liquor 
it  was  done  in ;  .  put  about  an^  ounce  an^  a  half  of  butter 
into  a  stew-pan;    set   it'    on    the   fire;    when  melted,    put 
flour  sufficient  to  dry  it  up ;  then  put  in  some  of  the  liquor  the 
sturgeon  was  done  in ;  ke^.st^mg  it  while  on  the  fire ;  when 
that  is  well  mixed  ifith  the  butter  and  flour  put  in  the  remain- 
der,andiet  it  boll  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour;  then  strain  it  through 


Ii4  DOMESTIC  CeOKBRY. 

ft  tstamy.  Return  it  into  the  stew^^tn;  set  it  on  the  fiie 
to  make  hot;  season  it  with  Cayenne  pefqierand  a  litlte  anoboYjr 
essence ;  squeeze  half  a  lemon  iu^  and  put  a  little  sugar  in  ; 
when  you  can  procure  a  Seville  oranfpe  use  it  instead  of  lemon ; 
pnk  the  sturgeon  on  the  diah^  and -the  aance  e^^  it^ 

To  pickk  Sturgtom, 

Cut  your  sturgeon  into  what  size  or  pieces  you 'please ;  wash 
it  well,  and  tie  it  with  mats ;  to  every  three  quarts  of  water  put 
a  quart  of  old  strong  beer,  a  handfhl  of  bay<>salt,  and  double 
the  quantity  of  common  salt,  one  ounce  of  ginger,  two  ounces 
of  black  pepper,  one  ounce  of  ^yes,  and  one  of  Jamaica 
pepper;  boil  it  tiH  it  will  leave  the  bone,  then  take  it  up ;  the 
Aext  day  put  in  a. quart  of  strong  alegar^'  and  a  little  salt;, 
tie  it  down  with  strong  paper,  and  keep  it  for  use.  I^o  not  pat 
your  sturgeon  in  till  the  water  boils. 

An  excellent  imitation  of  piiklei  Sturgeon. 

4 

Take  a  fine  large  turkey,  but  not  old;  pick  it  very  nicely, 
singe,  and  make  it  extremely  dean  :  bone  and  wash  it,  and  tie 
it  across  and  across  with  a  bit  of  mat  string  washed  dean.  Put 
into  a  nice  tin  sauce-pan  a  quart  of  water,  a  quart  of  vinegar, 
a  quart  of  white  (but  not  sweet)  wine,  and  a  very  large  handfiil 
of  salt ;  boil  and  skim  it  well,  then  boil  the  turkey.  When 
done  enough^  tighten  tFib  strings,  and  lay  upon  it  a  dish  widi 
a  weight  of  two  pounds  over  it. 

Boil  the  liquor  half  an  houV ;  and  when  botii  ore  cold,  pot 
the  turkey  into  it.  This  will  keep  some  .months,  and  eats  more 
delicately  than  sturgeon :  vinegar,  oil,  and  sugar,  are  usually 
eaten  with  it.  If  more  vinegar  or  salt  should  be  wanted,  add 
when  cold.     Send  fennel  over  it  to  table. 


I 


Thornbach  and  Skate. 


These  should  be  hung  one  day  at  least  before  they  are  dressed  ; 
and  may.be  served  eith^  boiled^  or  fried 'in  crumbs,  being 
first  dipped  iA  egg. 


•  :;  ' 


Crimp  Skah.      *  '' 


Boil  afid  ffend  tli^se  up  in  a  napkin ;  or  fry  as  above*. 


nfiK.'  MA 


These  should  likemse  be  bung  up  one  day  at  least.  They 
■Miy  be  broiled  br  fried ;  &t,i£  a,  tolerable  size,  the  middle 
■lay  be  boiled,  and  the  fins  fVied.  They  ahoald  be  dipped  in 
^g,  and'  covered  with  crumbs. 


To  hail  Carp. 

When  you  kill  your  carp,  teve  all  the  UiMid,  and  have  ready 
aome  nice  gravy,  made  of  beef  and  muttoti,  seasoned  with  pep* 
per,  salt,  mace,  and  bnion.  -Before  yon  put  in  your  fish,  strain 
it  off,  and  boll  your  carp  before  you  put  it  into  the  gravy. 
SetHoiladew  fire  about  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  and  thicken  the 
sauce  with  a  large  piece  of  butter  rolled  in  flour ;  or  you  may 
make  your  sauce  thus :  take  the  liver  of  the  carp  dean  from  the 
giltt^  three  ancfiovies,  a  little  parsley,  tfaymei  and  an  onion. 
Chop  thes^  small  together,  and  take  half  a  pint  of  Rhetiish 
wine,  four  spdofrfuls  -of  -nnegar,  and  the  blood  of  the  carp. 
When  all  thelM^'are  stewed  gently  together,  put  4t  te  the<carp> 
whsdi.  TtmUt  first  'Me  boil«d  in  water  with  a  little  salt  and  a  pmt 
df  Wine;  but'  takef'edte  not  to  do  it.  too  much  after  the  carp  it 
pM  into  the  sauce.' 

To  fry  Carp. 

1 1  Atar  hftviqg  deaaaed  your  fish, ,  lay  them  in  a  dotb  to  dry,. 
iimi  flonr  them,  put  ihem  into  the  pan  and  firy  theteiof  a  light* 
btown.  Take  'aone  ctosts  of  bread,'  cut  then  thnBe^^Dcner: 
ways,,  and  fty  them-  with  iihe  rdt»  of  the  fish* .  When<  your  -fish 
are  nicely  fried,  lay  them  on  a  coarse  d^th  to  drain,  and  pre- 
pare anchovy  sauce  with  the  juice  of  a  lemon.  Lay  your  carp 
in  the  dish,  with  the  roes  en  each  side,  arid  gandsh  with  the 
fried  crust,  and  slices  of  lemoa. 

.  !  I>^Am  Cmp  wUh  UHk  Dr&uUt  or  Egpendf. 

Tdcoia  bniiee.of  middling  sised  carps,  and  bleed  them  into 
arlittfe  dasel.or  redporf^  stirriog  the  wine  all  tbe/^ime  to  pre* 
vsoUvMdliag,  Whsu  ttua.  fi#h .  are  cleansed  and  scalded^  (but 
QOtdiakbM).  ptit(them  inlo  ii  isiew-pan,  with  as  oauch  water  a% 
WiUL  QDpev  lhim« :  Tbrolv  in  si  bandful  of  salt»  some  whole  pep^ 
pHEV/a  binidirof  ii^vfeet  berbl;  a  Isi^e  onion,  a  little  horseradish 
and  JemioQi  fied^. witb  seme  wMler wiae  ir«A«gar«  avvl  stefw  tb^ea 


106  DOMSSTIC  COOKBBT. 

dowly  till  enough.  TheD^  taking  them  up,  and  setdng  a  ocnrer 
over  them,  to  some  of  the  liquor  in  which  they  were  stewed, 
add  two  anchovies,  a  little  whole  pepper,  powdered  mmce, 
borseradiah,  lemon  peel,  and  a  small  onion,  for  sauce.  Boil 
these  till  the  anchovies  are  dissolved,  and  then  put  in  the  blood 
and  red  wine,  with  two  spoonfuls  of*  good  gravy.  Let  them 
boil  up,  then  strain  the  liquid,  and,  thickening  it  with  a  bit  of 
flour  and  butter,  *  pour  the  sauce  over  the  carp.  Gamisb  the 
dish  with  slices  of  lemon,  fried  sippets  of  bread,  and  a  few 
barberries.  A  little  ale  or  beer,  with  a  small  quanti^  of 
grated  gingerbread,  and  any  thing  to  colour,  if  required,  may 
be  substituted  for  the  red  wine.    This  is  often  done  in  Germany. 

To  bake  Carp. 

Clean  a  brace  of  carp  well,  then  take  an  earthen  pan,  but* 
ter  it  a  little,  and  lay  your  carp  in,  season  them  with  dovee, 
Qutmeg,  mace;  black  and  white  pepper,  a  bundle  of  sweet 
herbs,'  an  onion,  an  anchovy,  and  pour  in  a  bottle  of  white 
wine ;  bake  them  an  hour  in  a  hot  oven.  When  flone,  take 
them  carefully  up,  and  lay  them  in  a  dish :  set  it  over  hot 
water  to  keep  them  warm,  and  cover  them  close.  Then  pour 
the  liquor  in  which  they  were  baked  into  a  sauce-pan,  boil  it  a 
few  minutes,  then  strain  it,  and  add  half  a  pound  of  butter 
rdled  In  flour :  let  it  boil,  and  keep  it  stirring.  Squeeie  in 
the  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  and  put  in  what  salt  you  requite ; 
pour  the  sauce  over  the  fish,  lay  the  roes  round,  and  garnish 
with  lemon;  but  be  careful  to  skim  all  the  fiit  off  the  liquor. 

7b  pet  Carp. 

Cut  off  the  head  and  tail,  take  out  the  bones,  and  cleanse 
it  well,  and  then  do  it  exactly  the  same  as  salmon. 


German  Method  of  making  three  Dishee  of  a  Singk  Carp. 

The  economical  Germans  frequently  make  three  excellent 
dishes,  a  soap,  a  stew,  and  a  fry,  with  a  single  carp  of  about 
three  pounds  weight.  This  is  effected  then  in  tbe  Mlowing 
way :  Take  a  live  carp,  either  hard  <k  soft  roed,  and  Ueed'it 
into  a  stew  pan :  then  scale  it  well,  and  carefully  take  out  and 
preserve  the  entrails,!  without  breaking  the  gall ;  -^ioh,  with 
the  bitter  parts  adjoining,  must  be  separated  imniedvitely  from 


VI8B«  167 

the  rest.    Eroy  futher  pirt'of  tbe  carp,  like  the  intedtiiied  of 

a  pig;  which  it  more  memblM  in  form  thm  «aj  other  fredi 

water  fiah,  ia  convertible  to  excellent  food.    Having  opened  the 

maw,  and  thoroughly  waahed  it,  cat  the  roe  in  piecea,  and  put 

it  with  aU  the  rest  of  the  entraUa  for  the  aoop  or  first  dish, 

Thia  soup  ia  either  made  widi.the^  addkion.of  gravj  or  stroiig 

meat.bitikh,  aooampanied-  by  heiiis. and  apices,  well  Reasoned,' 

and  thickened  with  floiir ;  or,  when  itttended  aa  «  mwigre  dish, 

with  that  of  a  strong  broth  of  any  other  fish  passed  through 

the  sieve,  a  bundle  of  sweet  •  herbs,  and  a  aeasoning  of  fine 

apioes,  ice.    For  the  second  diah-^  or  ^|ewV  havmg  slit  up  the  carp 

on  one  nde'ofithe.lMok  bone,  thimigh  the  head,  and  quite 

dpwn  to  the  tail,  cot  off  tbe  head  with  a  good  ahooldery  take 

the  krgeat  hdf  of  the  body,  cositaining  the  back  bone,  and 

divide  it  intoUurqepieoaa;  whieh,  with  its  portion  of  the  heady 

are  to  be  put  to  the  blood  in  the  stew-pan,  where  they  are 

dressed  in  any  of  the  nomeroua  modes  of  stewing  this  favou- 

lite  fiah:'freqiientiy,  by  potting  in  a|^88.or  two  of  good 

wine,  or  twice  the  quantifty  of  ale>.  wiA  a  little  .grated  ginger^ 

bread,'  and  sometimea  only  a  small  quantity  of  vinegar,  adding 

sweet  herbs,  spices,  and  seasoning  to  palate.    When  serving 

up  this  dish,  it  is  not  unusual  to  add  a  little  lemon  or  lime 

juice*     For  the  fry,  or  third  dish,  the  remaining  half  of  the 

head  and  body,  divided  aa  for  the  stew,  is  well  dredged  with 

floor,  and  fried  brown  and  crisp  in  oil  or  clarified   batter. 

Thus,  particularly  if  a  few  savoury  forcemeat  balls,  composed 

in  the  Usual  manner,  .with  tiie  fish  which  makes  the  broth  or 

gravy;  be  boiled  in  the  aoup,  there  ia  a  first  dish  imitating,  in 

miniature, .  the  richest  turtle  soup ;  a  second  dish,  in  the  stew, 

may  easily  be  made  equally  palatable,  on  a  small  scale;  and, 

lastly,  a. most  delicate  third  dish,  in  the  fine  firy.  which  com* 

pletes  this  curious  German  cookery  of  a  single  carp. 

Detteuie  White  Sauce  for  Cnrp. 

r 

Take  half  a'  pint  of  cream,  an  onion^  or  a  few  shalots,  a 
Utde  lemon  peel,  and  three  anchovies.  After  boiling  them  up 
together,  put  in  three  ounces  of  butter,  with  the  yolks  of  three 
eggs,  and  a  little  elder  or  white  wine  vin^ar,  according  to 
palate,  stirring  it  continually  while  over  the  fire,  to  prevent 


Ms  DOMBSTI0  COOKERY. 


,<f 


turdliilf.  ^  ThU.  iatite  is  prefiferM;  by  laitiy  peabns^'to  that 
auuk  with  redport,  or  evto  withi<klaMfe^ 

<  ,  1  ■  .  •  ,        I        •  •      < 

Put  them  into  coU  wiHer^  bdk  tfatoiaaMAiUg^y  and  senas 
with  mcltrd  ,^u(ter  and  soy:  Beroh  -itrea  mMt  delioate  HA. 
Tbey  OM^ibeeitheriii^  or  stewedy  but  in  jtswiiig  tfaty  do  not 
prederve  8o  gaod  al  flavoiufi ' 

:  ;•.  •  — '  o  v^-  '. '  .■     '^  ■ 

'  Pot  your  fish  into: the  |^afteV'W&eh.il''lMnU,  wfthaokie  olf, 
an  onibti  cut  in  fllicelB^  onoepai^teyj  dad  aa  much  milk  as  will 
tulm  the.  water.  Whan  the  fish  is'daough  pat 'it:  into  a  io«p« 
dish, .  andi  poor  a  titde  of  the  waferrwidrllte'^iiskr^  tead  viiioiis 
ohrer  it«    Serivo'it  «p  withi  meUodlnitjter-andpaiiday  in  a  fkialL  < 


!.»::•    f 


Split  the  £sh  along  the- badur,  apd' d- aia^  tlia  dekh  fimkn  tbe 
bone:  then  out  the  .sftfo^  aohisS^atthehoad  aftid'  tail;  stripiit 
clean  off,,  and  take  oat  tfae^fabnst  Having  tKiffi  prelMred'theni 
for  frying,  take  one  of  them,  and  miilce:  the  flesh  Tttry  soiatt^ 
with  raushroomSy  chives,  and  pardeyijcfaopped  6nex  a  little 
sah,  p^lftper^  beaten  mads,  .liutmleg,  and  afew  iavoilkty  hevbs. 
Mix  these  well  toeethar^  then  pound  tftem  in  a  mortar,,  and 
crumbs  of  breiid  soaked  hi  cream,  the:yoiksof  thoe^orfmirjQggs^ 
and  a  piece  f if  butter ;.  atid  .w<kh  tkisi  compdaitioD  stuiT  yovtr 
fishk  Put  clarifihl  buttfer  inlis  ydar  pan,  set  it  .over  the  Srei 
and  wfaeniitlia  hot  strew  some  ffour  on  yoor  fifths  and  put  them 
in- one  bj  ohe.i  When  they  have  fried;  >tiil  they  are.  ofui'nitie 
tarown  colour,  take  theQi*  up,  and  kythem  in  a  coacse  doth 
befoce  ihe:fire/'to  kedphoL  Thonpour  all  tb^&t  out  pf  die 
pan,  put  in  a  qoarter  of.  a  pound  of  bnitsr,  and  shake  inisom^ 
flour.  Keep  it  stirring  with  a  spoon  liU  the  butter  is  a  little 
brown,  and  then  pui  in  half  a  pitit  a£  white  Ivine.  Stir  them 
together,  and  put  in  half  a  pint  of  boiling  water,  an  onion 
shred  with  cloves,  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs»  and  two  blades  of 
mace.  Cover  these  close,  and  let  them  stew  as  gently  asyou 
can  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  then  strain  off  the  liquor,  and  put 
them  into  the  pan  again,  adding  two  spoonfuls  of  catsup,  an 
ounce  of  truffles  or  morels  boiled  tender  in  half  a  pint  of 


FISH.  ie9 

water,  a  few  mitthraoins,  «nd  half  a  pint  of  oysters,  waahed 
deui  in  their  own  tiqaor  When  your  sauce  is  properly  heated, 
and  haa  a  good  flavour,  put  in  your  tench,  and  let  them  lay  in 
it  till  they  are  thoroughly  hot ;  then  take  them  out,  lay  them  in 
your  diahy  and  pour  the  sauce  over  them.  Garnish  with  sliced 
lemon. 

To  boil  Trout. 

BoQ  them  in  vinegar,  water,  and  salt,  with  a  piece  of 
boneradish:  and  serve  them  up  with  anchovy  sauce  and  plain 

batter. 

To  fry  Trout. 

Scale,  gut,  and  well  wash ;  then  dry  them,  and  lay  them 
Kparately  on  a  board  before  the  fire,  after  dusting  some  flour 
over  them.  Fry  them  of  a  fine  colour  with  firesh  dripping ; 
serve  with  crimp  parsley,  and  plain  butter. 

Perch  and  tench  may  be  done  the  same  way. 

'  To  hroil  Trout. 

When  yon  have  properly  cleansed  jrour  fish,  and  made  it 
thoroughly  dry  with  a  cloth,  tie  it  round  with  packthread  from 
head  to  tail,  in  order  to  preserve  its  shape  entire.  Then  melt 
some  butter,  with  a  good  deal  of  basket  salt,  and  pour  it  all 
over  the  trout  till  it  is  perfectly  covered :  after  lying  in  it  a 
minule  or  two,  take  it  out,  and  put  it  on  the  gridiron  over  a 
dear  fire,  that  it  may  do  gradually.  For  sauce,  wash  and 
bone  an  anchovy,  and  cut  it  very  small;  chop  a  large  spoon- 
ful of  capers ;  melt  some  butter,  with  a  little  flour,  pepper, 
salt,  and  nutmeg,  and  put  it  into  the  anchovy  and  capers^  with 
half  a  spoonful  of  vinegar.  When  the  trout  is  done,  lay  it  in 
a  warn]  dish,  pour  your  sauce  boiling  Kot  over  it,  and  send  it 
to  table. 

• 
To  stew  TVout. 

Select  a  large  trout,  clean  it  well,  and  place  it  in  a  pan  with 
gravy  and  white  wine ;  then  take  two  eggs  buttered,  some  nut- 
m^  salt,  and  pepper,  lemon  peel,  a  little  thyme,  and  some 
grated  bread,  miz,them  together,  and  put  in  the  belly  of  the 
trout,  then  suffer  it  to  stew  a  quarter  of  an  hour ;  then  put  in 

7  z 


ITO  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

a»  piece  of  bpttet  in  the  iaace ;  seevm  ir  ho^  and  gimiah  widv 
lemon  alioed. 

Trcmt  a^ia^  Getuwnse. 
Clean  the  fish  very  well ;  pot  it  into  your  stew-pan,  adding* 
half  Champaigne  and  half  Moselle,  or  Rhenish,  or  sherry 
wine.  Season  it  with  pepper,  salt,  an  onion,  a  few  cloves 
stuck  in  it,  and  a  small  bunch  of  parsley  and  thyme :  put  in  it 
a'Crust  <tf  French  bread;  set  it  on  a  quick  fire.  When  the 
fi^h  is  done,  take  the  bread  out,  bruise  it,  and  then  thicken  the 
sauce ;  add  fiour  and  a  little  butter,  and  let  *  it  boil  up.  See- 
that  your  sauce  is  of  a  proper  thickness.  Lay  your  fish  on  the 
dish,  and  pour  the  sauce  over  it.  Serve  it  with  sliced  lemon 
and  fried  bread; 

To  pot  Tnmt,  Perck,  or  Tmch. 

Scale  and  dean  the  fi^h,  cut  off  the  head,  tail,  and  fins, 
take  out  the  bones,  season  the  same,  and  bake  and  pot  it  aa 
directed  for  salmon. 

To  boil  Mackerel 

This  fish  loses  its  life,  as  soon  as  it  leaves  the  sea,  and  the 
fresher  it  is  the  better. 

Wash  and  clean  them  thoroughly,  put  them  into  cold  water 
with  a  handful  of  salt  in  it ;  let  them  rather  simmer,  than  |;>oiI ; 
a  small  mackerel  will  be  enough  in  about  a  quarter  of  an  hour: 
when  the  eye  starts  and  the  tail  splits,  they  are  done ;  do  not 
let  them  stand'  in  the  water  a  moment  afler  ;  they  are  so  deli- 
cate that  the  heat  of  the  water  will  break  them. 

This  fish  in  London  is  rarely  fresh  enough  to  appear  at  table 
in  perfection ;  and  either  the  mackerel  is  boiled  too  much,  or 
the  roe  too  little.  The  best  way  is  to  open  a  slit  opposite  the 
middle  of  the  roe,  you  can  then  clean  it  properly  ;  this  will 
allow  the  water  access,  and  the  roe  will  then  be  done  as  soon 
as  the  fish,  which  it.seldom  is  otherwise.  Garnish,  them  witb 
pats  of  minced  fennel. 

The  common  notion  is,  that  mackerel  are  in  the  best  oon- 
dition  when  fullest  of  roe ;  however,  the  fish  at  that  time  is 
only  valuable  for  its  roe,  the  meat  of  it  has  scarcely  any  flavour. 


FISS.  171 

Tkt  roe  of  4ie  iMle  6sh  is  soft  Mte  the  brma  of  a  cel^ 
tbat  of  the  fenale  k  foil  of  nudl  eggs,  and  called  hard  roe. 

To  brM  MsckfTtL 

Cksn  a  fine  larfe  mackerpl.  ^ipe  it  oo  a  dry  oloCh,  »)d 
cat  a  long  slit  down  the  h«ck ;  la\  it  on  a  clesn  gridiron,  over 
a  rery  dear  ^low  fire;  when  it  is  done  on  one  side  torn  it;  be 
carefiil  thit  it  does  not  burn ;  send  it  up  with  fennel,  saooe  { 
mix  well  toother  a  little  finely  minced  fennel  and  parsley, 
seasoned  with  a  little  pepper  and  salt,  a  bit  of  fresh  butter,  and 
when  the  mackevel  are  ready  for'  the  table,  pat  eeme  of  this 
imo  each  fish. 

To  kake  Maekenl. 

Cat  off  their  heads,  open  them,  and  take  out  the  roes,  and 
dean  them  thoroughly ;  rub  them  on  the  inside  with  a  littte 
pepper  and  salt,  put  the  roes  in  a^^n ;  season  them  (with  a 
mixture  of  powdered  allspice,  black  pepper  and  salt  .well  rub* 
bed  together,}  and  lay  them  close  in  a  baking  pan,  cover  them 
with  equal  quantities  of  cold  vinegar  and  water,  tie  them  down 
with  strong  white  piper  doubled  and  bake  them  for  an  hour 
ina  abw  oven.    1  hey  will  keep  for  a  fortnight. 

To  pipkk  MackareL 

Procure  them  as  fresh  as  possible,  split  them  open,  take  off 

the  beads,  and  trim  off  all  the  thin  part  of  the  belly,  pat  then 

into  salt  and  wster  ibr  oi^e  hour,  drain  and  wipe  your  fish^.aod 

put  them  into  jars  or  ciisks.  with  the  following  preparatioM, 

which  (is  enough  for  Ihtee  di>aen  roackareL     Take  eah  and  bay 

aalt,  one  pounid  each,  saltpetre  and  lump  sugar,  two  ounces 

each;  gctndaod  pound )the  salt,  &a  well  together,  put  the  fiek 

into  jars  or  casks,  wiith  a  layer  of  the  preparation  at  the  bot« 

torn,  then  a  layer  of  mackerel  with  the  skin  side  downwards, 

8o  continue  alternately  till  the  cask  or  jar  is  full;  press  it  down, 

and  cover  it  dose.     In  about  three  months  they  will  be  fit 

•Ibri 


Piekkd  Mfackerel,  ^olhd  Coveaph. 
Clean  laind  divKle  them  ;  then  cut  each. aide  iiito  tfaree,  or, 
leaving  them iindiMided,.iCutie«di  eHkiinib  fine  or  six  pieoes. 


172  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

To  six  large  mackerely  take  near  an  ounce  of  pepper,  two  nut^ 
megs,  a  little  mace,  four  cloves,  aiid  a  handful  of  salt,  all  in 
the  fine&t  powder ;  mix,  and  making  holes  in  each  bit  of  fish, 
thrust  the  seasoning  into  them,  rub  each  piece  with  some  of  it  ; 
then  fry  them  brown  in  oil ;  let  them  stand  till  cold,  then  put 
them  into  a  stone  jar,  and  cover  with  vinegar ;  if  to  keep  long, 
pour  oil  on  the  top.  Thus  done,  they  may  be  preserved  for 
months. 

Red  Mullet. 

Clean  them,  but  leave  the  inside ;  enclose  them  in  oiled 
paper,  and  having  placed  them  in  a  small  dish,  bake  them 
gently ;  an  excellent  sauce  may  be  made  of  the  liquor  that 
comes  from  the  fish,  by  adding  a  little  essence  of  anchovy,  a 
glass  of  sherry,  and  a  piece  of  butter  rolled  in  flour ;  give  it  a 
boil,  and  serve  it  in  a  butter  tureen.  The  fish  must  be  served 
in  the  paper  xBases. 

N.  B.  Mullets  are  boiled  and  broiled  the  same  as  salmon. 

To  boil  Pike. 

When  you  have  taken  out  the  gills  and  guts,  and  thorough- 
ly washed  it,  make  a  good  forcemeat  of  chopped  oysters,  the 
crumbs  of  half  a  penny  loaf,  a  little  lemon  peel  shred  fine» 
a  lump  of  butter,  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  a  few  sweet  herbs, 
and  season  them  to  your  taste  with  salt,  pepper,  and  nutm^. 
Mix  all  these  well  together,  and  put  them  into  the  belly  of  the 
fish,  which  must  be  sewed  up,  and  skewered  round.  Boil  it 
in  hard  water  with  a  little  salt,  and  a  tea-cup  full  of  vinegar 
put  into  the  pan.  As  soon  as  the  water  boils  put  in  the  fish, 
(but  not  before)  and  if  it  is  of  a  middling  size^  it  will  be  done 
in  half  an  hour.  Serve  it  up  with  oyster-sau  e  in  a  boat» 
having  first  poured  a  little  on  the  fish.  Garnish  with  pickled 
barberries. 

To  bake  Pike. 

Clean  and  scale  them  well ;  open  as  near  the  throat  as  can- 
venient,  and  use  the  following  stuffing :  grated  bread,  ancho- 
vies, herbs,  salt,  suet,  oysters,   mace,  pepper,  four  yolks  of 
eggs,  and,  if  it  can  be  procured,  half  a  pint  of  cream ;  mix  it 
over  the  fire  tiU  it  ia  sufficiently  thick,  then  put  it  into  the  fiab. 


FI8H.  173 

and  sew  it  careftilly  up;  then  put  some  small  bita  ef  butter 
•fer  the  fish,  and  bake  it;  serve  it  up  with  gravy,  butter,  and 
anchovy. 

To  stew  Pike. 

Make  a  browning  with  butter  and  fiour,  and  put  it  into 
your  stew-pan  with  a  pint  of  red  wine,  a  faggot,  four  cloves, 
a  doaen  of  small  onions  half  boiled,  with  some  pepper  and 
salt.  Cut  your  pike  into  pieces,  put  it  in,  and  let  it  stew  very 
gently.  When  done,  take  it  out,  and  add  to  the  sauce  two 
anchovies  and  a  spoonful  of  capers  chopped  fine.  Boil  it  for  a 
minute  or  two,,  and  then  pour  it  over  the  fish.  Garnish  with 
bread  nicely  fried,  and  cut  three-corner  ways. 

To  pot  Pike. 

When  you  have  well  scaled  your  fish,  cut  off  the  head, 
^lit  it  down  the  back,  and  take  out  the  bone.— Then  strew 
over  the  inside  some  bay-salt  and  pepper,  roll  it  up,  and  lay  it 
in  your  pot  Cover  it  close,  and  let  it  bake  an  hour.  Then 
take  it  out,  and  lay  it  on  a  coarse  cloth  to  drain.  When  it  is 
cold,  put  it  into  ^our  pot,  and  cover  it  with  clarified  butter. 

To  boil  Haddock. 

Wash  it  well,  and  put  it  on  to  boil ;  a  haddock  of  three 
pounds  will  take  about  ten  minutes  afler*the  water  boils. 

Haddocks  salted  a  day  or  two,  and  eaten  with  egg  sauce,  are 
a  very  good  article.  Haddocks  cut  iu  fillets,  fried,  eat  very 
fine.  Or  if  small,  very  well  broiled,  or  baked,  with  a  pud^ 
ding  in  their  belly,  and  some  good  gravy. 

Findham  Haddocks. 

Let  the  fish  be  well  cleaned  and  laid  in  salt  for  two  hours ; 
let  the  water  drain  from  them.  They  may  be  split  or  not ; 
they  are  then  to  be  hung  in  a  dry  situation  for  a  day  or  two, 
or  a  week  or  two,  if  you  please :  when  broiled,  they  have  all 
the  flavour  of  the  Findhom  haddock,  and  will  keep  sweet  for 
a  long  time. 

Scotch  fooy  of  dressing  Haddocks. 
A  haddock  is  quite  like  a  different  fish  in  London  and 
Edinbo^h,  which  arises  chiefly  from  the  manner  ia  which  they 


tn  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

ate  trealtd ;  n  haddock  afaould  never  appeiir  at  ^ttkHe  wilii  its 
heed  and  Akin  on.  For  '.boilkig,  they  an  ail  :tbe  belter  fat 
lying  a  night  in  salt ;  of  course  they  do  not  take  so  .'long  to 
boil  without  the  akin,  and  r^uire  to  be  well  skimmed  to  pre- 
serve the  colour.  After  lying  in  salt  for  a  night,  if  you  hang 
them  up  fbr  a  day  or  two,  they  are  very  good  broiled  and 
eerved  with  cold  ibutterl  For  frying,  they  should  be  split  and 
boned  very  icarefuUy,  and  divided  into  convenient  pieces  if  too 
large  to  halve  merely ;  egg  and  crnrab  them,  and  fry  in  a  good 
deal  of  lard.  They  resemble  soles  when  dressed  in  this  man- 
ner. There  is  another  very  delicate  mode  of  dres«iing  them ; 
you  split  the  fish,  nib  it  well  with  butter,  and  do  it  before  the 
fire  in  the  Dutch* oven. 

To  dry  Haddocks. 

Choose  them  of  two  or  three  pounds  weight :  take  out  the 
gills,  eyes,  and  entrails,  and  remove  the  blood  from  .the  back- 
bone. Wipe  them  dry,  and  put  some  salt  into  the  bodies  and 
eyes.  Lay  them  on  a  board  for  a  night ;  then  hang  them  up 
in  a  dry  place,  and  after  three  or  four  days  they  will  be  fit  to 
eat ;  skin  and  rub  them  with  egg^  and  strew  crumbs  over  them. 
Lay  them  before  the  fire,  and  baste  ^ith  butter  until  brown 
enough.     Serve  with  egg  sauce. 

Whitings 

Are  skinned  and  turned  round;  eigg  and  bread  crumb- 
ed, and  fried.  Whitings,  if  large,  are  excellent  ^ried  as 
haddocks,  and  it  will  prove  an  accommodation  in  the  country 
where  there  is  no  regular  supply  of  fish. 

To  broil  Whitings. 

They  ahould  be  well  dried  in  a  cloth,  and  then  rolled  wcfl 
in  flour;  and  before  they  4ire  put  on  the  gridiron,  (he  bars 
ahould  be  made  vei^  deaq,  and  rubbed  with  a  bit.of  fat'baoop 
to  prevent  the  whitings  sticking  to  the  barp. 

Stuffing  for  Pike,  Haddock,  and  small  Cod. 

Take  an  equal  quantx^  of  fat  bacon,  beef  suet,  and  fresh 
batter,  aome  savory,  tl»ynie,  and  parsley,  a  few  leaves  of 
aveet  jMirjoraeou  two  aiieboties»  iMkitoaie  salt»  nnP^*  '^ 


9ISB.  VfS^ 

natmeg;  to  thk^  add  cfainbs^  Bkd  ak  egg  taliind.     Oysters 
added  t6  the  Above- wiU  bea  eoaaideraUeimpVovcmtat. 

To.  dress  Pipers, 
Bml>  OP  bake  them  witb  a-  pudding  well  aeacoiled.    If 
baktKl,  put  a  large  cup  of  rich  brotii  into  the  diah  ;  and  when 
done,  take  thiit«  soive  es^eoce  of  afichovy,  and  a  squeeze  of 
lemoQ^  and  boil  them  up  tjog^ther  fyr  sauce. 

To  boil  Soles, 

A  fine  fresh  tftfck  sole  is  aknoat  a^  good  eating  as  a  turbot. 

Wafth  attd  clean  it  ntctly ;  put  it  into  a  fifth-kettle  with  a 
haudfol  of  salt)  and  as  much  cold  water  as  will  corev  it;  set 
it  on  the  side^  of  the  fire^  take  off  the  aeum  aa  it  rises,  and  let  it 
boil  gently ;  about  ive  minutes^  (s.oeording  to  its  sisse)  will  b^ 
loi^  enough,  unless  it  be^vevt  lal^e.  Sikild'it  up  on  a  fisb<^' 
drainer^  gamisked  wiilh  sUoes^cf  lemon  and  sprigs  of  cutied" 
parsley,  OP  nicely 'ft^ed  stti^u,  or  oyetersi 

Slices  of  lemon  «ire' a  uttiveMally  aooeptable  gmtiish,  wiili' 
either  (Med  or  broil^f  Ash ;  a  fifew-  spHgs  of  cribp  parsley  niay 
be  added,  i^yoo  wish  to  make  it  l6^  very  smart';  and  parsley^ 
dr  ftnnel^md  butter j'  are  eKo^ledt^saucesi 

llofrySsks. 
TaMeoiFtheskini  fu(>  the  fish  over  with  the  yolk^of  aneggv 
and  strew  on  some  crumbs  of  bread.  Fry  them  in  hog*s  lard 
over  a  brisk  fire;  till  they  are  of  a*  fine  light  brown.  Then 
take  tbenff  tip,  drain  them,  purtheffi  into  your  dish,  and  perve 
thetn  up  with  plain  melted^  biittier  in-a  bosft*  Garniih- witht 
green  pickles* 

To  fry  Soles  antthtt  m^' 
Take  two  or  threes  soles^  divide  tliem  fVolii  the  buelo-bene, 
and  take  off  the  head,  fins,-  and  tail.  Sprinklei:he  inside  with' 
salt,  roll  them  tip  tight  f^om-the  tiaiiUend  upwiardsj  and'fiisten' 
with  small  skewers.  If- large  dr  middling,  put  half  a  ii^  in 
each  roll ;  small  do  not  answer.  Dip  them  into  yolks  of  eggs^ 
and  cover  them  with  crimibs:  Do  the  egg  over  them  again, 
and  then  put  taidre  crumbs;  and>iVy  them  a*beautifbleeloar 
ill  krd»  ce  to  fhst-day -in  olarified  bottfen 


170  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

To  8tew  Soles,  Fhunders,  Plaice. 

These  three  different  species  of  fish  must  be  stewed  in  one 
and  the  same  manner.  Half  fry  them  in  butter  till  of  a  fine 
brown ;  then  take  them  up,  put  to  your  butter  a  quart  off 
water^  three  anohovies,  and  an  onion  sliced.  Put  your  fish  in 
again;  and  stew  it  gently  half  an  hour.  Take  out  the  fish, 
squeeze  in  a  lemon,  and  thicken  the  sauce  with  butter  and 
flour ;  having  given  it  a  boil,  strain  it  through  a  sieve  over  the 
fish,  and  serve  up  with  oyster  or  shrimp  sauce. 

Soles  in  the  Portuguese  wenf^. 

Take  one  large,  or  two  small :  if  large,  cnt  the  fish  in  two: 
if  small,  they  need  only  be  split.  The  bones  being  taken  out, 
put  the  fish  into  a  pan  with  a  bit  of  butter  and  some  lemon* 
juice,  give  it  a  fry,  then  lay  the  fish  on  a  dish,  and  spread  a 
forcemeat  over  each  piece>  and  roll  it  round,  fastening  the  roll 
with  a  few  small  skewers.  Lay  the  rolls  into  a  small  earthen 
pan,  beat  an  egg  and  wet  them,  theu  strew  crumbs  over ; 
and  put  the  remainder  of  the  egg,  with  a  little  meat  gnvy, 
a  spoopfVil  of  caper  liquor,  an  anchovy  chopped  fine,  and  some 
parsley  chopped,  into  the  bottom  of  the  pan;  cover  it  doee, 
and  bake  till  the  fish  are  done  enough  in  a  slow  oven.  Thai 
place  the  rolls  in  the  dish  for  serving,  and  cover  it  to  keep  them 
hot  till  the.  gravy  baked  is  skimmed;  if  not  enough,  a  little 

fresh,  flavoul'ed  as  above,  must  be  prepared  and  added  to  it 

• 

Portuguese  Stuffing  for  Soles  baked. 

•Pound  cold  beef,  muttcm,  or  veal,  a  little ;  then  add  some 
fat  bacon  that  has  been  lightly  fried,  cut  small,  and  some  onions, 
a  little  garlic  or  shalot,  some  parsley,  anchovy,  pepper,  salt, 
and  nutmeg ;  pound  all  fine  with  a  few  crumbs,  and  bind  it 
with  two  or  three  yolks  of  eggs. 

The  heluls  of  the  fish  are  to  be  left  on  one  side  of  the  split 
part,  and  kept  on  the  outer,  side  of  the  roll ;  and  when  served, 
the  heads  are  to  be  turned  towards  each  other  in  the  dish« 

Garnish  with  fried  or  dried  parsley. 

To  boil  Flounders,  Plaice,  and  Dabs. 

As  the  simiUrity  of  these  fish  is  so  great,  the  method  of. 
dressing  either  must  be  the  same.    First  cat  off  the  fins,  nick 


FlIH.  177 

the  bipwb  sidle  tfnder  the  head/  and  take  oat  the  guti  Thea 
drj  them  with  a  clotfa^  and  boil  them  in  salt  and  water.  Sertp 
them  ap  with  shrimp,  cockle,  or  musde  sauoe,  and  garnish 
with  red  cabbage. 

To  dress  a  largt  Plaice* 

Keep  it  a  day  s|»rinkled  with  salt,  after  which  wash  and. 
wipe  it  dry,  wet  it  orer  with  egg^  and  cover  wkh  crumbs  of 
Vread.  When  yoar  lard,  to  which  must  be  added  two  tabk 
spodBfUs  of  vinegar,  isrboiling  hot,  lay  the  fish  in  it,  and  ftjr 
itof  afinecoknur;  when  enough,  drain  it  from  the  fat,  and 
senre  with  fried  parsley  and  anchovy  sance. 

To  fry  Smelts. 

They  should  not  be  washed  more  than  is  necessary  to  clean- 
them.  Dry  theqft  in  a  cloth ;  tlien  b'ghtly  flour  them,  but  shake 
it  oiT.  Dip  them  into  plenty  of  egg,  then  into  bread  crumbs, 
grsted  fine,  and  plunge  them  uito  a  good  pan  of  boiling  lard ; 
let  them  continue  gently  boiling,  and  a  few  minutes  will 
mske  them  a  bright  yellow  broWn.  Tidce  care  not  to  tak^  oiT 
the  light  roughness  of  the  crumbs,  or  their  beauty  will  be  lost.' 

To  pickle  Smelts. 

At  that  time  of  the  year  when  imelts  are  seasonably 
shandant,  take  a  quarter  of  a  peck,  of  them,  and  wash, 
clesn,  and  gut  them.  Take  half  an  ounce  of  pepper,  the- 
same  quantity  of  nutmegs,  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  mace, 
half  an  ounce  of  saltpetre,'  and  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
•ommon  salt.  Beat  all  Very  fine,  and  lay  yotnr  snielts  in  t6ws 
in  a  jar.  Between  every  layer  of  smelts  strew  the  seasoning,* 
with  four  or  five  bay  lelives.  Then  boil  some  red  wine,  and- 
poarover  them  a  soffident  quantity  to  cover  them.  Cover  them 
^th  a  plate,  and  when  cold,  stop  them  down  dose,  and  put 
them  by  for  use.    A  few  makara  very  pretty  supper. 

To  boil  John  Dorey. 

This  is  reckoned  one  of  tfie  choicest  fish,  for  which  it  should 
be  paid  particulsj*  care  iii  dressing ;  it  should  be  put  on  in  cold 
spring  water,  with  a  little  salt  and  vinegar  in  the  water;  whea 
it  b^ns  to  boil  put  in  some  cold  water,  and  when  it  begins  to 

7  Sa 


17B  DOMfiSTXC  COOKERY. 

l^il  again  put  a  little  more  opld  spring  water  to  it,  and  put  it 
by  the  side  of  the  stove  to  simmer  for  a  few  minutes. 

Ready  Method  of  roasting  Eeb. 

Having  skinned  and  washed  some  of  the  finest  large  eels, 
Cut  them  in  three,  four,  or  five  pieces,  according  to  their  respec- 
tive sizes.  Make  a  seasoning  of  grated  nuttneg  beaten  white, 
or  long  pepper,  and  salt ;  with  a  little  thyme,  sage,  and  lemofli 
peel,  ail  well  beaten  or  shred,  and  mixed  plentifully  with 
crumbs  of  bread.  Strew  this  well  on  the  eels,  stick  them 
across  on  skewers  to  the  spit,  baste  them  continually,  and  let 
them  roast  till  they  begm  to  crack  and  appear  white  at  the 
bone.  When  taken  up,  send  them  to  table  with  melted 
butter  and  lemon  juice;  which  will  make  the  best  sauce  thej 
can  have,  as  the  sauce  gives  them  an  iitoomparable  relish. 
Eels  may  be  also  fried  or  broiledj  thus  seasoned,  with  a  rery 
good  effect. 

To  boil  Eth. 

After  skinning,  gutting,  and  properly  washing  them,  cot 
off  their  heads,  dry  them,  and  twist  them  round  on  your  fish 
plate.  Boil  them  in  salt  and  water,  and  serve  them  up  with 
melted  butter  and  parsley.  If  you  only  boil  them  in  such  a 
quantity  of  water  as  will  just  cover  them,  the  liqtuHr  will  be 
exceeding  good,  and  very  beneficial  to  weak  or  consumptive 
constitutions. 

To  fry  Eih. 

Skia  and  gut  them,  and  wash  them  weD  in  cold  water ; 
cut  them  in  pieces  four  inches  long,  season  them  with  pepper 
atad  salt,  beat  an  egg  well  on  a  plate,  dip  them  in  the  egg,  and 
then  in  fine  bread  cruntbs ;  fry  them  in  fresh  clean  lard,  drain 
them  well  from  the  fat:  Garnish  with  crisp  parsley ;  for  aadoe, 
plain  and  melted  butter,  sharpened  with  lemoa  juice,  or  par* 
sley  and  butter. 

Spitehcocked  Eeb. 
This  the  French  cooks  call  the  English  way  of  dressing  eels. 
Take  two  middling-siaed  silver  eels,  leave  the  sldn  on,  scour 
them  with  salt,  and  wash  them,  cut  off  the  heads,  slit  them 


Fisd.  JTO 

••  the  baD^  nde,  and  take  oat  the  bone  and'  ^ta,'  and  wash 
and  wipe  tbein  rucdy,  then  cut  them  into  piece*  abovt  three 
indies  long,  and  wipe  them  quite  dry,  pnt  two  onnoea  of  bM> 
ter  into  a  tte«-p«n,  wiA  b  little  minced  panley,  tbjnne,  cage, 
pefiper,  and  aalt,  apd  a  verj  Utde  diopped  ahalot ;  aet  the  aUw* 
pan  over  the  fin;  when  the  butter  ii  melted,'  atir  the  ingredi> 
CBta  tagetb»,  and  take  it  off  the  fire,  mix  th«  ytUcM  of  twp 
cgga  with  them,  and  dip  the  eel  in,  a  piece  at  a  time,  and  then 
Toll  them  in  bread  crumbs,  making  aa  much  stick  to  them  os 
fsacan;  thenmba  giidirao  witbabitof  met,  set  it  high  over 
a  very  dear  firr,  and  broil  your  eels  of  *  fine  criq>  brown :  dish 
thwD  with  crisp  parsley,  and  send  np  plain  batter  in  a  boat, 
and  anduv;  and  batter. 

Sdme  Uke-them  better  with  the  akin  offj  it  is  Tery  apt  to 
afeid  delicate  stmiachs. 

T«  bake  £eh. 
Cot  off  tfa«r  heads,  gut  them,  and  take  oat  the  blood  from 
the  bone  aa  dean  as  pouible.  Moke  a  forcemeat  of  .^rimpa  or 
oysters  chopped  amaU,  half  a  penny  loa*  crumbled,  «  little 
lemmi  ped  shred  fine,  the  ydks  of  two  eggs,  and  a  little  salt* 
pepper,  and  nutmeg.  Put  this  into  the  bellies  of  the  fi^,  sew 
them  up,  and  turn  them  round  on. the  diah.  Put  flour  and  b«tt 
ler  over  them,  pour  a  little  water  into  the*  diah,  v>d  bake  them 
in  a  moderate  oven.  Whe^  done,  .take  the  gravy  from  under 
them,  and  skim  off  the  At,  strain  it  throtigh  a  hair  tieve,  and 
add  one  tea-speoiifiil  of  lemon  pickle,  two  of  browning^  a  large 
ipoonfal  of  walnitt  catsup,  *  glasi  of  white  wine,  an  aSchovy; 
and  a  slice  of  lemon.  Let  it  boil  ten  miaetei,  and  thicken  it 
with  butter  and  floor.   Garaiih  with  lemon  and  crisped  Jiaraley. 

.  To  pot  Eeh. 
Take  a  \argt  eel,  and  when  yon  have  skinned,  washed 
dean,  and  thoroughly  dried  it  with  a  doth,  cat  it  iqto  pieces 
about  four  inches  long.  Seaam  them  with  a  little  beaten  macs 
and  nutmeg,  p^per,  aalt,  and  a  little  lal  prundla  beat  fine. 
Lay  theln  in  a  pan,  and  )}our  a«  mudh  darified  bntter  over 
them  aa  will  covet"  tlum.  Bake  them  half  an  hour  in  a  quidt 
oven;  but  the  liae  of  your  eels  must  be  the  general  rule  to 
determine  what'  time  they  will  take  baking.    Take  tbem  out 


..^<S. 


180  BOMESXIC  teoOKERt. 


'With  a  fork,  and  lay  theih  oo  ataaane'  cbdi.to  dr^itk^  Wihna 
they  ana  ^uite  cold,  season. them  again  with  the  like  3e«kminf^ 
•and  lay  them  dose  in  the  pot.  Then  take  off  the  .butler  thc^ 
.were  baked  in.  clear  froin  the  gravy  of  the  fish,  and  set  it  in 
•a  dish  before:the  fire.  When  it  is  melted,  pour  the  batter  over 
them,  and  put  them  by  for  use.  You  may  bone  y6us  eela,  if 
yon  choose;  but  in  that  case  you  most  pot  m-no  fitl  pruDeUa.  > 

•       '       ..         » 
Excellent  collared  Eeb. 

The  largest  and  ^lest  eels  should  be  selected  for  ^Ilaring^ 
each  making  a  separate  piece  or  collar;  and;  b^ng  weQ  deans.* 
(id,  and  either  skinned  qr  not,  aeoording  to  the  preference  of 
the  party,  each  being  carefully  boned,  and  kid  as  .fiat,  as  po»» 
a2ble,with.  the  inside  upward.  Ai  miatam  of  pavsley,  shalot, 
thyme,  marjoram,  and  savory,  all  chopped  .Tery.small,  with.« 
very  little  finely  beaten  pepper,  mace,  doves,  nutmeg,  allspice, 
mushroom  powder,  lemon  peel,  and  salt,  is  to  be  plentifully 
rubbed  in  and  strewed  over,  the  inside  of  !the  'eol;u&Ber. which 
it  is  to  be  tightly  rolledup,  arid  bound  fast  vith^tape.  In  the 
mean  time,  having  ooiled  the  head,  bones,  &b.  of  the  eds  in 
sidt  and  water,  with  a  bit  of  lemon  peel,  a  few  bay  leases,  audi 
aaffident  pepper,  put  the  collars  in  the  strained  liquor;  with 
the  addition  of  some  vinegar,:  and  let  them  aimtiier  in  a  stew« 
pan  over  the  fire*  till  they  tar^  sufficiently  done.  Jake  the  oolrf 
krs  out>  skim  die  fiit  off  Ae  li^or,'and  boil  it  down  to « 
toeng  jelly,'  ahd  ddier  pour  it  on.them  wh«ithey  are  odd; 
after  taking  off  the  iape  and  trimming  their  ends,  or  wipe 
tliem'dry,  and  serve  them  up  with  the  chopped  jdly  roand 
thenu  Some  sprigs  of  parsley,  lemob  peel,  or-  bnmdias  of 
b^berries,  inay  be  put  on  their  top$,  and  slkes  of  lemon  placed 
round  the  dish,  if  they  are  served  up  whole ;  but,  when  sent  to 
table  only  in  slices,  a  garnish  of  parsley  will  be  quite  sufficient. 
In  cdlaring  eels  for  common  fiMDoily  use^  which  are  not  only 
•acdlent,  but  highly  nourishing  food,  little  more  is  necotsar^r 
Aan  plenty  of  parsley,  a  few  sweet  herbs,  some  pounded  all« 
spice,  and  commoTi  salt  and'  pepper.  *  On  the  :o4ier  hand,  some 
even  put  wine  mto  die  jelly ;  which  they  also  jdear  widi  whitea 
of  eggs,  and  pass  thi:x>ugh  a  bag  or  tamis  dMh.  CoBared  cda, 
done  dther  way,  will  keep  for  a  considerable  length  of  time, 
ind  are  therefore  very  Convenient  as  well  aa  ddldous. 


F19II.  191 

When  yon  cat  them  open  to  dean  them,  be  careful  to  tare 
the  bloody  and  wash  them  thoroughly  dean  in  warm  water. 
Fiy  Aem  m  dean  dripping,  and  when  nearly  enough, '  put  ont 
tilie  fiU,  put  a  little  white  wine,  and  give  the  pan  a  ihake  iroond. 
Tlirow  a  little  pepper,  with  some  sweet  herbs,  a  few  capers,  a 
piece  of  batter  rolled  in  flour,  and  the  blood  you  saved  firom 
the  fish.  Cover  the  pan  close,  and  shake  it  citea.  When  they 
are  enough,  take  them  out,  strain  the  sauce,  put  it  into  the  pan 
again,  and  give  it  a  quick  boil.  Squeeze  in  the  juice  of  a 
lemon,  stir  all  together,  and  when  it  is  just  upon^  the  boil, 
poor  it  over  the  fish,  and  serve  it  up.  Gamiib  wiA  sliced 
Jcmon. 

Having  skinned,  gutted,  and  thoroughly  washed  your  fish, 
season  them  with  salt„*  pepper,  a  little  lemon  ped  shred  fine. 
Bade,  doves,  and  nutm^.  Put  «odie  'thitf  a^ees  ^f  buttaf  Into 
jmm  atew-pan,  and  having  rolled  yodi*  fish  'imind,  pat  IlieHi  in,' 
wiA  half  a  piqt  of  good  gravy,  a  gffl  «f  whHe  wine,  a'4bttnch' 
af  'asaijMVBi^'  winter  savory,  thym^,  and  an  tmito  dlioeQ.  €iet 
Aem  slew  over  a  gentle  fire,  aad.l8eep  turning  tiMem  till '  Aisy 
are  tender.  liien  take  l^m  out,  attd  pot  mmA^^  bM^ 
saoee.  ffaickeB  it  wMi  the  yolk  of  an  ^egg'teat  t«ry  fine,  «t 
a  piece  of  batter  rolled  in  flour.  Wtien  it  -  boils,  pc^ir  it  oVier . 
the  fish,  and  serve  them  to  table. 


ToMew  TUmfnyi  as  ai 

After  deaning  the  fish  carefully,  reiaove  the  tarlHage* 
which  nina  down  iitie  book,  and  season  widi  a  small  quantity - 
of  doves,  maee,  nutmeg,'  pepper,  and  allspice;  pat  it  Into  a 
small  8tew*pot,  with  very  stnmg  beef  gravy,  port,  tmd  an 
equal  quantity  of  Madeira  or  sherry.  It  must  be  covered  dose ;  * 
stew  till  tender,  then  take  oat  Ae  lamprey  andkeepKot,  whil<^ 
you  boil  up  the  liquor  with  two  or  three  anchcme^  diopped, 
and  some  flour  and  butter ;  strain  the  gravy  through  a  sieve, 
and  add  lemon  juice  and  some  made  mustard.  Serve  with 
sippets  of  bread,  and  horseradish. 

£els,  done  the  same  way,  are  a  good  deal  like  the  lamprey^ 
When  there  is  spawn,  it  most  be  ftUd  and  put  round. 


18t  DOMESTIC  COOEEST. 

Obterre.  Cider  will  do  in  conunoo  jnstetd  oC  while  wine. 

FlotaiJert, 
Let  them  be  robbed  with  salt  inside  uid  out,  and  )ie  two 
houn  to  give  them  some  firmness.     Dip  them  into  egg,    cover 
with  cnimba,  and  £17  them. 

Wala-  Soucky. 
Stciw  two  or  three  flounders,  some  parsley  le&ves  and  rootl^ 
thirty  peppercorns,  and  a  quart  of  water,  till  the  fish  are  bmled 
to  pieces  :  pulp  them  through  a  sieve.  Set  over  the  fire  the 
pulped  fish,  fhe  liquor  that  boiled  them,  some  perch,  tench,  or 
floanders,  and  tome  fmfa  leaves  and  roots  of  parsley ;  simmer 
all  till  done  enough,  then  serve  in  a  deep  dish.  Slicesor  l>read 
and  butter  arc  to  be  sent  to  table,  to  eat  with  the  souchy. 

To  boil  Herringt. 
Scale,  gut,  and  wash  them,  then  dry  diem  thoroughly  in  a 
cloth,  aqd  rub  them  over  with  a  little  salt  and  vinegar^  Skew- 
er their  tails  in  thar  mouths,  and  lay  them  on  your  D^^late. 
When  tiie  wattf  boils,  put  them  ■  in,  md  about  tea  or  twdve 
minutes  will  do  them.  After  you  have  Ukta  them  up,  let  them 
drain  properly,  and  then  turn  their  beads  into  the  middle  of  the 
dish.  Serve  them  up  with  melted  batter  and  parley,  hkI 
ganush  with  scraped  hvrsersdish. 

To  broil  Haringt. 
Scsle,  gat,'  and  cut  off  their  heads;  wash  (hem  dean,  and 
dry  tbem  in  a  cloth ;  then  dust  them  well  with  flour,  and  brml 
them.  Take  the  heads,  mash  them,  and  bml  them  in  small 
beer  or  ale,  with  a  tittle  whole  pepper  and  onion.  When  it  ia 
bailed  a  quarter  o(  an  hour  strain  it  off,  thicken  it  with  butter 
and  flour,  and  a  good  de4l  of  mustard.  Lay  ihe  herringi, 
when  done,  in  a  pUte  or  dish,  pour  the  sauce  into  a  i>oat,  and 
serve  them  up. 

To  fry  Haringi. 
First  scrape  off  all  the  scales,  then  wash  tbem,  dry  them 
veil  in  a  cloth,  and  dredge  them  with  flour.     Fry  them  in  but- 
ter over  a  brisk  fire,  and  when  done,   set  their  tails  up  ont 


FISH.  188 

9guDst  another  in  the  middle  of  the  dish*  Fry  a  Uvge  band-* 
ful  of  parsley  crisp,  take  it  oat  before  it  loses  its  ooloor ;  lay  it 
lound  the  fish^  and  serve  them  up  with  melted  butter^  parsley^ 
and  mustard. 

To  hake  Herrings* 

Scale,  wash,  and  dry  them  well  in  a  cloth,  then  lay  them 
OD  a  board,  and  take  a  little  black  pepper,  a  few  cloves,  and 
plenty  of  salt;  mix  them  together,  and  rub  the  fish  all  over 
with  iL  Lay  tbem  straight  in  a  pot,  cover  thtm  over  with 
vinegar,  pat  in  a  few  bay  leaves,  tie  a  strong  paper  over  the 
top,  and  bake  them  in  a  moderate  oven.  They  may  be  eat 
ddier  hot  or  cold ;  and  if  you  use  the  best  vinegar^  they  will 
keep  good  for  two  or  three  months. 

Sprats  may  be  done  in  the  same  manner,  and  either  of  them 
will  furnish  an  occasional  and  pleasing  relish. 

To  pot  Herrings, 

'  Cat  off  the  heads  of  vour  herrings,  and  put  them  into  an 
earthen  pot  Lay  them,  close,  and  between  every  layer  of 
herrings  strew  some  salt,  but  not  too  much.  Put  in  doves, 
mace,  whole  pepper,  and  a  nutmeg  out  in  pieces.  Fill  up  the 
pot  with  vinegar,  water,  and  A  quarter  of  a  pint  of  white  wine. 
Cover  it  with  brown  paper,  tie  it  down  dose,  and  bake  them 
in  an  oven  with  brown  bread.  As  soon  as  they  are  cold,  put 
them  into  your  pots,  tie  them  dose  with  paper,  and  set  them  by 
for  use. 

To  smoke  Herrings. 

Clean,  and  lay  them  in  salt  and  a  little  saltpetre  one  night ; 
then  hang  them  on  a  stick,  through  the  eyes,  in  a  row.  Have 
an  old  cask,  in  which  put  some  sawdust,  and  in  the 
it  a  heater  red  hot;  fix  the  stick  over  the  smoke,  and 
let  then  remain  twenty-four  hours. 

To  dress  Red  Herrings* 

Choose  those  that  are  larg^  and  moist,  cut  them  open,  and 
pour  some  boiling  small  beer  over  them  to  soak  half  an  hour ; 
dniiii  ihem  dty,  and  make  them  just  hot  through  before  the 
fire,  then  rub  some  cold  batter  over  them  and  s^ve.    Egg 


IIA  DOMESTIC  COOKEBY. 

eggs,  aikd  mubid  pDtilbea,'  sbMd  be  sent 


Sprats. 

These,  when  cleaned,  should  be  fastened  in  rows  by  a 
skewer  run  through  the  heads,  and  then  broiled,  and  served 
hot. 

To  boil  Lobsters. 

Buy  dieae  alsire:  the  lobster  merchants  sometimes  keep  themr 
lilL  they  are  starved,  before  they  boil  them ;  Ihey  »re  tbenr 
wetoy,  and  have  not  half  their  flavour.  Choose  those  that 
infr.-Ml  ^f  motion,  whidt  ia  .the  index  i>(  their,  freshness. 
Those  of  the.  middle  sise  are  the  beat.  Never  take  them  when 
the:il)dl  ia  inerusted,  which  ia  a  sign  they  are  old.  The  male 
lobster  is  preferred  to  eat,  and  the  female  (on  account  of  the 
^SS^)  ^  nudce  sauce  of.  The  hen  lobster  is  distinguished  by 
having  a  broader  tail  than  the  male,  and  less  daws. 

Set  on  a  pot,  with  water  salted  in  the  proportidki  of  a  table- 
spoonful  cf.  salt  to  a  qnart  of  water:  when  the  water  boils,  pot 
it  in,  and  ktep  it  boiling  briskly  from  half  an  hour  to  an  hour, 
acoordingto  ita  siae;  wipe  all  the  scum  off  it,  and  rub  the 
didl.  with  a  very  little  butter  or  aweet  oil ;  break  off  the  great 
daws,  crack  them  carefully  in  each  Joint,  so  that  they  may 
noirbe  shattered,  and  yet  come  to  pieces  easily;  cut  die  tail 
down  the  middle,,  and  sendup  the  body  whole. 

These  fish  come  in  about  April,  and  continue  plentiful  till 
the  oyster  season  returns;  after  that  time  they  begin  to  spawn, 
and  seldom  open  solid*. 

To  roast  Lobsters. 

When  you  have  half-boiled  your  lobster  take  it  out  of  the 
water,  rub  it  well  with  butter,  and  lay  it  before  the  fire ;  con* 
tinue  basting  it  with  butter  till  it  has  a  fine  froth,  and  the  ahdla 
look  of  a  dark  brown.  Then  put  it  into  your  dish,  and  serve 
it  up  with  plain  mdted  butter  in  a  sauce-boat. 

To  pot  Lobsters. 

Half  boil  theiki,  pick  out  tfie  meat,  cut  it  into  tmaU  bits, 
season  with  mace,  white  pepper,  nutmegr  and  salt,  pfeaa  dose 


L.  . 


nsm  r  186 

into  a  pot,  andcover  with  butter ;  bake  half  an  hour ;  put  the 
spawn  in.  When  cold,  take  the  lobster  out,  and  put  it  intQ 
the  pots  with  a  little  of  the  butter.  Beat  the  other  butter  in  a 
mortar  with  some  of  the  spawn  ;  then  mix  that  coloured  butter 
with  as  ranch  as  will  be  sufficient  to  cover  the  pata»  and  strain 
it    Cayenne  may  be  added^  if  approved. 

An^tktr  Wmf  to  pot  Lobsterif  4».  at  Wopd's  Hotel. 

.  Take  out  the  meat  as  whole  as  you  can :  split  the  tail,  and 
remove  the  gut ;  if  the  inside  be  hot  watery,  add  that.  Season 
with  maccr  nutmeg,  white  pepper,  salt»  and  a  dove  or  two,  ia 
the  finest  powder.  Lay  a  little  fine  butter  at  the  bottom  of  the 
pan,  and  the  lobster  smooth  over  it,  with  bay-leaves  between  ; 
cover  it  with  butter,  and  bake  gently.  >  When  done,  pour  the 
whqle  on  the  bottom  of  a  aieve,  and  with  a  fork  lay  the  pieces 
into  potting-pots,  some  of  each  sort,  with  the  seasoning  aboift 
it  When  cold,  pour  clarified  butter  over,  but  not  hot  It 
will  be  good  next  day ;  or  highly  seasoned,  and  thick-covered 
with  butter,  will. keep  some  time. 

Potted  lobster  may  be  used  cold,  or  as  a  fricassee,  with  a 
creun-sance :  it  then  looks  very  nicely,  and  eats  excellehtly, 
etpectalljT'  if  there  is  spawn. 

To  stew  Lobsters. 

Pick  the  lobster,  put  the  berries  into  a  dish  that  has  a  lamp, 
and  rub  them  down  with  a  bit  of  butter,  two  spoonfuls  of  any 
sort  of  gravy,  one  of  soy,  or  walnut  catsup,  a  little  salt  and 
cayenne,  and  a  spoonful  of 'port ;  stew  the  lobster  cut  into  bits 
with  the  gravy  as  above. 

Buttered  Lobsters. 

Pick  the  meat  out,  cut  it,  and  warm  with  a  little  weak 
brown,  gravy,  nutmeg,  salt,  pepper,  and  butter,  with  a  little 
flour.     If  done  white,  a  little  white  gravy  and  cream. 

Currie  of  Lobsters  or  Prawns. 

Take  them  from  the  shells,  and  lay  into  a  pan,  with  a  small 
piece  of  mace,  three  or  four  spoonfuls  of  veal  gravy,  and  four 
of  cream :  rob  smooth  one  or  two  tea-spoonfuls  of  currie-pow« 
7  2b 


186  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

derj,  a  tea-spoonful  of  flour^  and  an  ounce  of  butter ;  simmer 

kn  hour :  squeeze  half  a  lemon  in,  and  add  salt 

»  •  ■  • 

* 

To  dress  Crab,  hot. 
Pick  a  crab ;  put  all  into  a  stew-pan  with  about  an  ounce  of 
butter,  and  a  little  anchovy  essence,  a  tea-spoonful  of  mustard, 
two  table-spoonfuls  of  oil,  the  same  of  vinegar,  one  of  elder 
vinegar,  one  of  Chilly  vinegar,  and  a  handful  of  bread  crumbs ; 
mix  all  together  well  with  a  spoon,  put  it  all  into  the  shell,  put 
bread  crumbs  orer  it,  drop  some  darified  butter  over  it,  and 
put  it  in  the  oven ;  if  the  oven  does  not  brown  it  suffident, 
brown  it  with  the  salamander. 

To  dress  Crab,  cold. 

Pick  the  crab,  and  put  what  fish  is  in  the  inside  on  a  plate 
by  itself,  and  what  comes  from  the  daws  on  another  plate  ; 
add  to  what  came  from  the  inside  of  the  crab  a  few  bread 
.'crumbs,  Cayenne  pepper,  a  little  essence  of  anchovy,  two 
table-spoonfuls  of  vinegar,  a  little  clarified  butter,  and  a 
^spoonful  of  elder  vinegar ;  mix  all  wdl  together;  dean  the 
I  shell  well  out ;  put  the  drest  part  of  the  crab  in  one  end  of  the 
ahell,  and  what  is  picked  from  th^  daws  in  the  other ;  the 
spawn  of  the  crab  should  be  pounded  in  a  mortar,  rubbed 
through  a  sieve,  and  put  over  the  crab  in  diamonds :  if  there 
be  no -spawn  in  the  crab,  the  spawn  of  lobster  will  do:  put 
parsley  neatly  picked  round  the  fish,  and  make  a  ring  of  the 

small  claws  to  go  round  the  dish,  and  parsley  between  the  ring 

.  and  the  shell. 
« 

To  hitter  Praums  or  Shrimps. 
Take  them  out  of  the  shells ;  and  warm  them  with  a  little 
good  gravy,   a  bit  of  butter  and  flour,  a  scrape  of  nu^^, 
salt,  and  pepper  ,*  simmer  a  minute  or  two,  and  serve  with  sip* 
pets ;  or  with  a  cream  sauce,  instead  of  brown. 

Prawns  and  Cray-Jish  in  Jelly,  a  beautiful  Dish. 
Make  a  savoury  fish  jelly,  and  put  some  into  the  bottom  of 
a  deep  small  dish ;  when  cold,  lay  the  cray-fish  with  their  back 
downwards,  and  pour  more  jelly  over  them.    Turn  out  when 
cold. 


yi&H.  •  18? 

To.$i€W  Prmtms,  Shrimpt,  or  Cray-fah. 

Take  about  two  quarts  of  either  of  these  fish,  and  pick  out 
thetaik.  Put  the  bodies  into  your  stew-pan,  with  about  a 
pint  of  white  wine  (or  water  with  a  spoonful  of  vinegar)  and 
a  bkde  of  mace.  -  Stew  these  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour,-  thea 
stir  them  together,  and  strain  them.  .  Having  done  this,  wash; 
out  your  pan,  and  put  into  it  the  strained  liquor  and  tails*. 
Gnte  into  it  a  small  nutmeg,  put  in  a  little  salt,  a  quarter  of  a^ 
pound  of  butter  rolled  in  flour,  and  shake  it  all  together.  Cut 
a  thin  slice  of  bread  round  a  quartern  loaf,  toast  it  brown  on^ 
both  sides,  cut  it  into  six  pieces,  lay  it  close  together  in  the 
bottom  of  your  dish,  pour  your  fish  and  sauce  hot  over  .it,  and 
send  it  hot  to  table.  If  cray-fish,  garnish  the  dish  with  som^ 
of  their  biggest  claws  laid  thick  round. 

To  pot  Prawns,  Shrimps,  or  Cray-fish. 

Bofl  them  in  water  with  plenty  of  salt  in  it.  When  you, 
have  picked  them,  powder  them  with  a  little  beaten  mace,  or 
grated  nutmeg,  or  allspice,  and  pepper,  and  salt ;  add  a  little 
cold  butter,  and  pound  all  well  together  in  a  marble  mortar  till 
of  the  consistence  of  paste.  Put  it  into  pots  covered  with 
clarified  butter,  and  cover  them  over  with  wetted  bladder^- 

To  feed  Oysters. 

Some  piscivorous  gowrmands  think  that, oysters  are  not  best* 
when  quite  fresh  from  their  beds,  and  that  their  flavour  is  too 
brackish  and  harsh,  and  is  much  ameliorated  by  giving  them  a 
feed.  To  de  which,  cover  them  with  dean  water,  with  a  pint 
of  salt  to  about  two  gallons;  (nothing  else,  no  oatmeal,  flour, 
nor  any  other  trumpery ;)  this  will  cleanse  them  from  the  mud 
and  sand,  &c.  of  the  bed ;  after  they  have  lain  in  it  twelve 
hours,  change  it  for  fresh  salt  and  water,  and  in  twelve  hours 
more  they  will  be  in  prime  order  for  the  mouth,  and  remain  so. 
two  or  three  days.  At  the  time  of  high  water,  you  may  see  them 
open  their  shells,  in  expectation  of  receiving  their  usual  food. 
This  process  of  feeding  oysters,  is  only  employed  when  a  great 
many  come  up  together. 

The  real  Colchester,  or  Pyfleet  barrelled  oysters,  that  are 
packed  at  the  beds,  are  better  without  being  pui  iu  water; 
they  are  carefully  and  tightly  packed,  and  must  not  be  dis* 


1B8  DOMESTIC  CdOKERT. 

turbed  till  wanted  for  table :  these,  ih'  irioderate  weather,  will 
keep  good  for  a  week  or  ten  days.  If  an  oyster'  open^  his 
mouth  in  the  barrel,  he  dies  immediately.  In  order,  therefore, 
to  preserve  the  lives  of  barrelled  oysters,  put  a  heavy  %ei^t 
On  the  wooden  top  of  the  barrel,  which  is  to  be  placed  on  the 
tfurfaoe  of  the  oysters.  This  is  to  be  effected  by  removing  the 
first  hoop,  the  staves  will  then  spread  and  stand  erect;  making 
tL  wide  opening  for  the  head  of  the  barrel  to  fall  down  closely 
on  the  remaining  fish,  keeping  them  close  together.  The 
oysters  which  are  commonly  sold  as  barrelled  oysters,  are  merely 
the  smallest  natives,  selected  from  the  stock,  and  put  into  the 
tub  when  ordered ;  and  instead  of  being  of  superior  quali^, 
ire  often  very  inferior. 

Common  people  are  indiffiBrent  about  the  manner  of  opening 
oysters,  and  the  time  of  eating  them  after  they  are  opened  ; 
nothing,  however,  is  more  important,  in  the  enlightened  eyes 
of  the  experienced  oyster  eater.  Those  who  wish  to  enjoy 
ihis  delicious  restorative  in  its  utmost  perfection,  must  eat  it  the 
mometit  it  is  opened,  with  its  own  gravy  in  the  under  shell : 
if  not  eateh  while  absolutely  alive,  its  flavour  and  spirit  are 
Ibst  The  true  lover  of  an  oyster,  will  have  soitie  regard  for 
the  feelings  of  his  little  favourite,  and  will  never  abandon  it  to 
the  mercy  of  a  bungling  operator,  but  will  open  it  himself 
and  contrive  to  detach  the  fish  from  the  shell  so  dexterously, 
that  the  oyster  is  hardly  conscious  he  has  been  ejected  from  his 
lodging,  till  he  feels  the  teeth  of  the  piscivorous  g&umutnd 
tickling  him  to  death. 

To  fry  OyMteri, 

The  largest  oysters  you  can  get  should  be  chosen  for  frying. 
When  you  have  pronerly  cleaned  and  rinsed  them,  strew 
over  them  a  little  grated  nutmeg,  a  blade  of  mace  pounded,  a 
spoonful  of  flour,  and  a  little  salt.  Dip  your  oysters  singly 
into  this,  and  fry  them  in  hog's  lard  till  they  are  of  a  nice 
brown  colour.  Then  take  them  out  of  the  pan^  pour  them 
into  your  dish,  and  pour  over  them  a  little  melted  butter,  with 
crumbs  of  bread  mixed. 


FISH^  180 

To  fiicaaee  (haters* 

Pdt  a  little  batter  into  your  stew-pan,  with  a  slice  of  hsm, 
a  ^BLfCgat  of  parslej  and  sweet  herbs^  and  an  onion  stuck  with 
two  cloves.  Let  them  stew  over  a  slow  fire  a  few  minutes,  and 
then  add  a  little  flour,  some  good  broth,  and  a  piece  of  lemon 
peel ;  then  put  in  your  oysters,  and  let  theok  simmer  till  they 
are  ^oiroaie^y  hot.  Thicken  with  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  a 
little  cream  ^  and  a  bit  of  good  butter,  take  out  the  ham,  fag- 
got, oinion^  and  lemon  peel,  and  add  the  squeeze  of  a  lemon. 
Give  the  whole  a  shake  in  the  pan,  and  when  it  simmers  put  it 
into  your  dish,  and  serve  it  up. 

To  ragout  OyUert. 

When  the  oysters  are  opened,  save  as  much  of  the  liquor 

as  you  can,  and  strain  it  through  a  sieve ;  wash  your  oysters 

clean  in  warm  water,  and  then  make  a  batter  as  follows  :  Beat 

up  the  yolks. of  two  eggs  with  half  a  nutmeg  grated,  cut  a 

little  lemon  peel  small,   a  good  deal  of  parsley,  and  add  a 

spoonful    of  the  juice  of  spinach,   two   spoonfuls   of  cream 

or  milk,  and  beat  the  whole  up  with  flour  till   it  is  a  thick 

batter.     Having  prepared  this,  put  a  piece  of  fresh  butter 

into    a    stew-pan,    and    when    it  is    thoroughly    |iot,     dip 

your  oysters  one  by  one  into  the  batter,  then  roll  them  in 

crumbs  of  bread  grated  fine,  and  fry  them  quick  and  brown; 

which  done,  take  them  out  of  the  pan,  and  set  them  before  the 

fire.     Have  ready  a  quart  of  chesnuts,  shelled  and   skinned, 

snd  firy  them  in  the  batter.     When  enough,  take  them  up, 

pour  the  fat  out  of  the  pan,  shake  a  little  flour  all  over  the 

psn,  and  rub  a  piece  of  butter  all  round  with  a  spoon.     Then 

put  in  the  oyster  liquor,  three  or  four  blades  of  mace,  the 

chesnuts,  and  half  a  pint  of  white  wine.     Let  them  boil,  and 

have  ready  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  beat  up,  with  four  spoonfuls 

of  cream.     Stir  all  well  together,  and  when  it  is  thick  and  fine, 

lay  the  oysters  in  the  dish,  and  pour  the  ragout  over  them. 

Garnish  with  chesnuts  and  lemon. 

To  scollop  Oysters, 

Stew  the  oysters  slowly  in  their  own  liquor  for  two  or  three 
minutes ;  take  them  out  with  a  spoon,  and  beard  them,  and 
slum  the  liquor ;  pat  a  bit  of  butter  into  a  stew-pan,  and  when 


100  DOMESTIC  COOKBRY. 

it  is  melted^   add  as  much   fine  bread  crambs  as  will  dry 
it  up,  then  put  to  it  the  oyster  liquor^  and  give  it  a  boil  up  ; 
put  the  oysters  into  scollop  shells  that  you  have  buttered^  and 
strewed  with  bread  crumbs,  then  a  layer  of  oysters,  then  of 
bread  crumbs,  and  then  some  more  oysters;  moisten  it  with  the 
ojster  liquor,  cover  them  with  bread  crumbs^  put  about  half  a 
dozen  little  bits  of  butter  on  the  top  of  each,  ai&d  brown  them 
'  in  a  Dutch  oven.    Essence  of  anchovy,  catsup,  cayenne,  grated 
lemon  peel,  maoe,  and  other  spices,  &c.  are  added  by  those 
who  prefer  piquance  to  the  genuine  flavour  of  the  oyster.    Cold 
fish  may  be  re-dressed  the  same  way. 

Small  scollop  shells,  or  saucers  that  hold  about  half  a  dozen 
oysters,  are  the  most  convenient. 

To  stew  Oysters. 

Lai'g^  oysters  will  do  for  stewing,  and  by  some  are  pre- 
a  fierred ;  iMit  we  love  the  plump,  juicy  natives.    Stew  a  eouple 
d£  dozens  of  these  in  their  own  liquor ;  when  they  are  coming 
to  a  boil,  skim  well,  take  them  up  and  beard  them ;  strain  the 
liquor  through  a  tamis  sieve,  and  lay  the  oysters  on  a  dish. 
Put  an  ounce  of  butter  into  a  stew-pan ;  when  it  is  melted,  put 
to  it  as  much  flour  as  will  dry  it  up,  the  liquor  of  the  oystiers, 
and  three  table-spoonfuls  of  milk  or  cream,  and  a  little  white 
pepper  and  salt ;  to  this  some  cooks  add  a  little  catsup,  or  fine- 
ly chopped  parsley,  grated  lemon  peel,  and  juice ;  let  it  boil 
up  for  a  couple  of  minutes,  till  it  is  smooth,  then  take  it  off 
the  fire,  put  in  the  oysters,  and  let  them  get  warm ;  (they 
must  not  themselves  be  boiled,  or  they  will  become  hard ;) 
line  the  bottom  and  sides  of  a  hash-dish  with  bread  sippets, 
and  pour  your  oysters  and  sauce  into  it. 

Oyster  Loaves. 

Make  a  hole  in  the  top  of  some  little  round  loaves,  and  take 
out  all  the  crumb.  Put  some  oysters  into  a  stew-pan,  with  the 
oyster  liquor,  and  the  crumbs  that  were  taken  out  of  the  loaves, 
and  a  large  piece  of  butter ;  stew  them  together  five  or  six 
minutes,  then  put  in  a  spoonful  of  good  cream,  then  fill  your 
loaves.  Lay  a  bit  of  crust  carefully  on  the  top  of  each,  and 
put  them  in  the  oven  to  crisp. 


b 


\ 


nsH.  191 

Stewed  Ogetere  in  Frtndi  Rolls. 

Take  any  quantity  of  oysters^  and  wash  them  in  thar  own 
liqaor.  Then,  straining  it,  put  it  in  again  with  them^  and  add 
a  litde  salt,  ground  pepper,  beaten  maoe,  and  grated  nutm^. 
Let  them  stew  a  little  together,  and  thidcen  them  np  with  a 
great  deal  of  bntter.  In  the  mean  time,  cut  the  tops  off  a  few 
French  rolls,  and  take  out  suffident  crumb  to  admit  some  of 
the  oysters,  which  must  be  filled  in  boiling  hot,  and  set  over  a 
stove;,  or  cfaaffing-dish  of  coals,  till  they  are  quite  hot  through; 
iilling  them  up  with  more  liquor,  or  some  hot  gravy,  as  the 
ftrmer  sosJls  in.  When  they  are  sufficiently  moistened,  serve 
Ibeok  Qp  m  the  manner  of  puddings. 

To  pickle  OjfMtere. 

There  are  many  ways  of  pickling  oysters,  some  of  them 

very  troablesome  and  expensive.     The  following  is,  perhaps, 

the  beat  method  ever  yet  published,  and  certainly  as  siai^  and  « 

cheap  as  any  of  them.     Put  the  oysters  into  a  8tew*pa%  dust 

over  die  beards  a  little  fine  Lisbon  sugar,  pour  in  their  own 

liquor  well  strained  or  filtered,  and  put  them  on  a  gentle  fire 

for  five  minntes  without  suffering  them  to  boil.     Then  pour  off 

the  liquor  into  another  stew-pan ;  and,  adding  to  it  double  the 

.  quantity  of  good  vinegar,  with  some  catsup,  Cayenne  pepper* 

lemon  peel,  and  salt^  boil  the  whole  well  together,  for  a  quarter 

ot  an  hour.     In  the  mean  time,  having  given  the  beards  of 

the  oysters  another  dusting  of  sugar,  finely  pounded  with  an 

equal  quantity  of  salt,  and  placed  them  one  by  one  carefully 

in  a  jar ;  when  both  are  quite  cold,  pour  the  strained  pickling 

liquor  oyer  them,  and  keep  them  closely  from  the  air  with  blad* 

der  and  leather.     Some,  on  account  of  the  general  toughness 

of  the  beards,  cut  them  off  before  they  are  deposited  in  the 

jv;  but,  when  well  managed  as  above  directed,  they  will  not 

have  that  in  quality.      Pickled  oysters  should  be  served  up 

placed  in  rows,  on  a  dish  garnished  vrith  thin  slices  of  lemon. 

To  pickle  Oysters  another  Way- 

Open  the  number  you  intend  to  pickle,  put  them  into  Sl 

ssuce-pan  with  their  own  liquor  for  ten  minutes,  simmer  them 

^ery  gently ;  then  put  them  into  a  jar,  one  by  one,  that  none 

of  the  grit  may  stick  to  them,  and  cover  them  when  cold  with 


Jlii^ 


IM  BOMBSTtC  COOKERY. 

the  pickle  thus  made:  Boil  the  liquor  with  a  bit  of  mace,  lemon 
peel,  and  black  peppers^  and  to  every  hundred  put  two  apoon« 
fttls  of  the  best  undistilled  viqegar. 

They  sho^ild  be  kept  in  small  jars,  and  tied  dose  with  blad- 
der, £pr  the  air  will  spoil  them* 

To  stew  flfmcles^ 

Wash  them  very  cleaa  in  several  waters^  then  pnt  them 
into  a  stew*pan,  and  cover  them  dose.  Let  them  stew  till  the 
ahells  open^  and  dien  pick  out  the  fish  clean^  one  by  one. 
Look  und&t  the  ton^e  to  see  if  there  be  a  crab,  and  if  you 
find  one,  throw  that  muscle  away.  You  will  likewise  find  a 
little  tough  article  under  the  tongue,  which  you  must  pick  off. 
Having  thus  properly  deansed  them,  put  them  into  a  sauce* 
pan,  and  to  a  quart  of  muscles,  put  half  a  pint  of  die  liquor 
strained  through  a  sieved  add  a  few  blades  of  mace,  a  Hsall 
•  -.piece  of  butter  rolled  in  fiour,  and  let  them  stew  gently.  Lay 
flome  toasted  bread  in  the  dish,  and  when  the  muscles  are  done, 
pour  them  on  it,  and  serve  them  up. 

To  ragout  Muscles. 

'  Put  your  muscles  into  a  sauce-pan,  and  let  tliem  stew  till 
they  are  open.  Then  take  them  out  of  the  shells,  and  save  the 
liquor.  Put  into  your  stew-pan  a  bit  of  butter,  a  few  mush- 
rooms chopped^  a  little  parsley  and  grated  lemon  peel.  Stir 
these  together,  and  then  put  in  some  gravy,  with  pepper  and 
salt;  thicken  it  with  a  little  flour,  boil  it  up,  put  in  the  mus- 
cles with  their  liquor,  and  let  them  be  hot ;  then  pour  them 
into  your  dish,  and  serve  them  up.  There  are  some  musdes 
of  a  pernidous  quality,  to  know  which,  when  you  stew  them, 
put  a  half-crown  into  the  sauce-pan,  and  if  it  is  discoloured, 
the  muscles  are  not  wholesome. 

N.  B.  Directions  for  making  fish  pies  will  be  given  under 
the  head  Saoouty  Pies. 


POULTRY  AND  GAMS.  IW 


POULTRY  AND  GAME. 

Directions  far  dressing  Poultry  and  Game, 

All  poultry  should  be  very  carefully  picked,  every  plug  re« 
moved,  and  the  hair  nicely  singed  with  white  paper.  In 
dressing  wild  fowl,  be  careful  to  keep  a  clear  brisk  fire.  Let 
^m  be  done  of  a  fine  yellow  brown,  but  leave  the  gravy  in : 
the  fine  flavour  is  lost  if  done  too  much.  Tame  fowls  require 
more  roasting,  and  are  longer  in  heating  through  than  others. 
AH  sorts  should  be  continually  basted  ;  that  they  may  be  served 
with  a  froth,  and  appear  of  a  fine  colour. 

A  large  fowl  will  take  three  quarters  of  an  hour ;  a  mid- 
dling one  half  an  hour ;  and  a  very  small  one,  or  a  chicken^ 
twenty  minutes.  A  capon  will  take  from  half  an  hour  to 
thirty-five  minutes;  a  goose,  an  hour;  wild  ducks,  a  quarter 
of  an  hour ;  pheasants,  twenty  minutes ;  a  small  turkey  stuffed, 
an  hour  and  a  quarter ;  turkey-poults,  twenty  minutes ;  grouse, 
a  quarter  of  an  hour;  quails,  ten  minutes;  and  partridges, 
from  twenty  to  twenty-five  minutes.  A  hare  will  take  near  an 
hour,  and  the  hind  part  requires  most  heat :  but  in  all  cases 
you  must  be  guided  in  time  by  the  manner  your  family  ap- 
prove of  them,  as  some  persons  eat  game  scarcely  warmed, 
and  others  as  well  done  as  tame  fowls. 

Ducks  and  geese  require  a  brisk  fire,  and  quick  turning. 
Hares  and  rabbits  must  be  well  attended  to  ;  and  the  extremi- 
ties brought  to  the  quick  part  of  the  fire,  to  be  done  equally 
with  the  backs ;  and  in  order  to  prevent  their  appearing  bloody 
at  the  neck  when  ^ey  are  cut  up,  cut  the  neck  skin,  when 
they  are  half  roasted,  and  let  out  the  blood. 

POULTRY. 

To  boil  Turkey. 

Turkeys  (especially  large  ones)  should  not  be  dressed  till 
they  have  been  killed  three  or  four  days  at  least ;  in  cold  wea- 
ther, six  or  eight ;  or  they  will  neither  be  white,  nor  tender. 
7  2c 


W^t  dOMSSTIC  COOKUtYtf 

Before  they  are  dressed,  turkeys,  and  large  fowls,  should  have 
the  strings  or  sinews  of  the  thighs  drawn  out 

Make  a  stuffing  of  bread,  herbs,  salt,  pepper,  nutmeg, 
lemon-peel,  a  few  oysters  or  an  anchovy,  a  bit  of  butter,  some 
suet  and  an  egg :  put  this  into  the  crop,  and  fasten  up  the  skin. 
Make  a  good  and  clear  fire ;  set  on  a  clean  pot,  widi  pure 
and  clean  water,  enough  to  well  cover  the  turkey ;  the  slower 
it  boiIs>  the  whiter  and  plumper  it  will  be.  When  there  rises 
any  scum,  remove  it ;  the  common  method  (of  some  who  are 
more  nice  than  wise)  is  to  wrap  them  up  in  a  cloth,  to  prevent 
the  scum  attaching  to  them ;  which,  if  it  does,  by  your  neg- 
lecting to  skim  the  pot,  there  is  no  getting  it  off  afterwards, 
and  the  poulterer  is  blamed  for  the  fault  of  the  cook.  If  there 
be  water  enough,  and  it  is  attentively  scummed,  the  turkey 
will  both  look  and  eat  much  better  this  way,  than  when  it  has 
been  covered  up  in  the  cleanest  cloth ;  and  the  colour  and 
flavour  will  be  preserved  in  the  most  delicnte  perfection.  A 
small  turkey  will  take  an  hour  and  a  half,  a  large  one  two  '^ 
hours  or  more.  Have  ready  a  fine  oyster-sauce  made  rich  with 
butter,  a  little  cream,  and  a  spoonful  of  soy,  if  approved,  and 
pour  it  over  the  bird;  or  liver  and  lemon-saUce.  Hen-birds 
are  best  for  boiling,  and  should  be  young. 

To  roast  Turkey. 

Let  them  be  carefully  picked,  &c.  and  break  the  breastbone 
(to  make  them  look  plump)  twist  up  a  sheet  of  clean  writing 
paper,  light  it,  and  thoroughly  singe  the  turkey  all  over, 
turning  it  about  over  the  flame.  Turkeys  have  a  much  better 
appeanince,  if,  instead  of  trussing  them  with  the  legs  close 
together,  and  the  feet  cut  ofl^  the  legs  are  extended  on  each 
side  of  the  bird,  and  the  toes  only  cut  off,  with  a  skewer 
through  each  foot,  to  keep  them  at  a  proper  distance.  Be 
careful,  when  you  draw  it,  to  preserve  the  liver,  and  not  to 
break  the  gall  bag,  as  no  washing  will  take  off  the  bitter  taste 
it  gives,  where  it  once  touches. 

For  stuffing,  mince  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  beef  suet, 
(beef  marrow  is  better,)  the  same  weight  of  bread  crumbs, 
two  drams  of  parsley  leaves,  a  dram  and  a  half  of  sweet  mar- 
joram  (or  lemon  thyme,)  and  the  s«ne  of  grated  lemon  peel, 
an  onion  or  eschalot,  chopped  as   fine  as  possible^  a  little 


f 


POVXTRY  AND  6AMB«  186 

gnted  lintnieg,  pepper/  aad  silk:  pound  these  fliaroiiffaly'to« 
getfaer  witb  the  yolk  and  white  of  two  eggs,  and  stuff  it  under 
the  breast,  where  the  eraw  was  taken  out^  and  make  some  inta 
bsHs,  and  boil  or  fry  them,  and  lay  them  round  the  dish ;  they 
sre  handy  to  help,  and  you  can  then  reserve  some  of  the  inside 
'  stuffing  to  fat  with  the  cold  turkey. 

Score  the  giJEsard,  dip  it  into  the  yolk  of  an  egg  or  melted 
batter,  and  sprinkle  it  with  salt  and  a  few  grains  of  cayenne ; 
put  it  under  one  pinion,'  and  the  liver  under  the  other ;  cover 
the  liver  with  buttered  piqper,  to  prevent  it  from  getting  har« 
dened  or  burnt. 

Prepare  A  nice  dear  brii^L  fire,  and  when  you  first  put  a  turii 
key  down  lo  roast,  dre^e  it  with  flour,  then  put  about  an  ounce 
^sf  .butter  into  a  basting  ladle,  and  as  it  melts  baste  the  bird 
therewith.  Keep  it  at  a  distance  from  the  fire  for  the  first  half 
hour,  that  it  may  warm  gradually,  then  put  it  nearer,  and  when 
it  18  plumped  up,  and  the  steam  draws  in  towards  the  fire,  it  is 
nearly  enough ;  then  dredge  it  lightly  with  flour,  and  put  a  bit 
ef  butter  into  your  basting  ladle,  and  as  it  melts,  baste  the 
turkey  with  it;-  this  will  raise  a  finer  froth  than  can  be  pro- 
duced by  using  the  fat  out  of  the  pan.  A  very  lar^^e  turkey 
will  require  about  three  hours,  to  roast  it  thoroughly ;  a  mid- 
dling sized  one,  of  eight  or  ten  pounds  (which  is  far  nicer  eat- 
ing than  the  very  large  one,)  about  two  hours ;  a  small  one  may 
be  done  in  an  hour  and  a  half.  Turkey  podlts  are  of  varioua 
sizes,  and  will  take  about  an  hour  and  a  half:  they  should  be 
trussed  with  their  legs  twisted  under  like  a  duck,  ^nd  the  head 
under  the  wing  like  a  pheasant. 

Fried  pork  sausages  are  a  very  savoury  and  favourite  ac- 
companiment to  either  roasted,  or  boiled  poultry.  A  turkey^ 
thus  garnished,  is  called,  an  Alderman  in  chains.  Sausage 
meat  is  sometimes  used  as  stufiing,  instead  of  ike  ordinary 
fopeemeat. 

Pulied  Turkey. 
Skin  a  cold  turkey ;  take  off  the  fillets  from  the  tfri^ast^ 
and  put  them  into  a  stew-pan  with  the  rest  c(£  the  white  meat 
and  wings,  side  bones,  and  merry-thought,  with  k  pidt  of 
broth,  a  large  blade  of  mace  pounded, '«  shabt  minoed  fine, 
the  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  and  a  roll  of ,  the  peel»  aqme  sali^ 


/ 


109  DOmSTIC  COOKERY. 

9iid  a  few  grains  of  cayenne;  thicken  it  witii  floor  and  butter; 
and  let  it  simmer  for  two  or  three  minutes,  till  the  meat  is 
warm.  In  the  meantime  score  the  legs  and  rump,  powder 
them  with  pepper  and  salt^  broil  them  nicely  brown,  and 
lay  them  on,  or  round  your  pulled  turkey.  Three  table-8pooa<« 
fuls  of  good  cream,  or  the  yolks  of  as  many  eggs,  will  be  a 
great  improvement  to  it. 

To  stew  Turkey. 
Take  a  fine  turkey,  bone  it,  and  put  into  the  carcase  a 
ragout  composed  of  large  livers,  mushrooms,  and  streaked 
bacon,  all  cut  in  small  dice,  and  mingled  with  salt,  fine  spices, 
and  shred  parsley  and  onions.  Sew  the  turkey  up,  but  take 
care  to  shape  it  nicely ;  then  put  a  thin  slice  of  bacon  upon  the 
breast,  and  wrap  it  in  a  doth.  Stew  it  in  a  pot,  but  not  too 
large  a  one^  with  good  broth,  a  glass  of  white  wine,  and  a 
bunch  of  sweet  herbs ;  when  it  is  done,  strain  the  liquor  the 
turkey  was  done  in  into  a  stew-pan,  after  having  taken  off  the 
fat ;  reduce  it  to  a  sauce,  adding  a  spoonful  of  coulis ;  then  un- 
wrap your  turkey,  take  off  the  bacon,  dry  away  the  grease^ 
and  serve  it  up  with  the  sauce. 

To  hash  Turkey. 

Cut  the  flesh  into  pieces,  and  take  off  all  the  skin,  otfaeir« 
wise  it  will  give  the  gravy  a  greasy  disagreeable  taste.  Pot 
it  into  a  stew-pan  with  a  pint  of  gravy,  a  tea-spoonful  of 
lemon  pickle,  a  slice  of  the  end  of  a  lemao,  and  a  little  beaten 
mace.  Let  it  boil  about  six  or  seven  minutes,  and  then  put  it 
into  your  dish.  Thicken  your  gravy  with  flour  and  butter, 
mix  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  with  a  spoonful  of  thick  cream,  put 
it  into  your  gravy,  and  shake  it  over  the  fire  till  it  is  quite  hot, 
but  do  nok  let  it  boil;  then  strain  it,  and  pour  it  over  your 
turkey.  .  Lay  sippets  round,  serve  it  up,  and  garnish  with 
lemon  and  parsley.  • 


To  dres8  dres$ed  Turkey,  Goose,  Fowl,  Duck,  Pigeon,  or 

Rabbit. 

Cut  them  in  quarters,  beat  up  an  egg  or  two  (according  to 
the  quantity  you  dress)  with  a  little  grated  nutm^,  and  pepper 
and  salt,  some  paifslgr  minced  fine,  and  a  few  crumbs  of  bread; 


POULTRY  AND  OAMB.  197 

niz  these  well  together^  and  cover  the  fowl,  &c.  with  this 
better;  broil  them,  or  put  them  into  a  Dutch  oven,  or  have 
ready  some  dripping  hot  in  a  pan,  in  which  fry  them  a  light 
brown  colour ;  thicken  a  little  gravy  with  some  flour,  put  a 
large  spoonful  of  catsup  to  it,  lay  the  fry  in  a  dish,  and  pour 
the  sauce  round  it.  You  may  garnish  with  slices  of  lemon  and 
toasted  bread. 


Ragouts  of  Poultfy,  Game,  Pigeons,  Rabbits,  Sfc, 

Half  roast  it,  then  stew  it  whole,  or  divide  it  into  joints 
and  pieces  proper  to  help  at  table,  and  put  it  into  a  stew-pan, 
with  a  pint  and  a  half  of  broth,  or  as  much  water,  with  any 
trimmings  or  parings  of  meat  you  have,  one  large  onion  with 
cloves  stock  in  it,  twelve  berries  of  allspice,  the  same  of  black 
pepper,  and  a  roll  of  lemon  peel ;  when  it  boils,  scum  it  very 
clean,  let  it  simmer  very  gently  for  about  au  hour  and ,  a 
quarter,  if  a  duck  or  fowl,— longer  if  a  larger  bhrd ;  then  strain 
off  the  liquor,  and  leave  the  ducks  by  the  fire  to  keep  liot ; 
scum  the  fiit  off.  Put  into  a  clean  stew-pan  two  onnces  of  but* 
ter,  when  it  is  hot,  stir  in  as  much  flour  as  will  make  k  of  a 
stiff  paste,  add  the  liquor  by  degrees,  let  it  boil  up,  put  in  a 
glass  of  port  wine  and  a  little  lemon  juice,  and  simmer  it  ten 
minutes ;  put  the  ducks,  &c.  into  the  dish,  and  strain  the  sauce 
through  a  fine  sieve  over  them.  Garnish  with  sippets  of  toast- 
ed, or  fneA  bread. 

M  the  poultry  is  only  half  roasted,  and  stewed  only  till 
just  nicely  tender,  this  will  be  an  acceptable  bonne  bouche  to 
those  who  are  fond  of  made  dishes.  The  flavour  may  be 
varied  by  adding  catsup,  curry  powder,  or  any  of  the  flavour- 
ed vinegars. 

This  is  an  easy  prepared  side  dish,  especially  when  you 
have  a  large  dinner  to  dress;  and  coming  to  table  rea^  carved, 
saves  a  deal  of  time  and  trouble ;  it  is,  therefore,  an  excellent 
way  of  serving  poultry,  &c.  for  a  large  par^. 

7b  boil  Fowls. 

For  boiling,  choose  those  that  are  not  black  legged.  After 
having  drawn  your  fowls,  which  you  must  be  particularly 
careful  in  doing,  cut  off  the  head,  neck,  and  legs*  Skewer 
them  with  the  ends  of  their  legs  in  their  bodies,  and  tie  them 


198  DOMBSTIC  COOKBRT* 

roand  with  a  string.  Singe  and  dust  them  wdl  with  tour, 
put  them  into  cold  water,  cover  the  kettle  dose,  aild  set  it  ocl 
the  fire ;  but  take  it  off  as  soon  as  the  scum  begins  to  rise. 
Cover  them  close  again,  and  let  them  boil  gently  twenty 
minutes;  then  take  them  off,  and  the  heat  of  the  water  will  do 
them  sufficiently*  Melted  butter  with  parsley  shred  fine  is 
the  usual  sauce ;  but  you  may  serve  them  up  with  ojrster^ 
lemon,  liver,  or  celery  sauce.  If  for  dinner,  ham,  tongue, 
or  bacon,  is  usually  served  to  eat  with  them ;  as  likewise 
greens. 

To  boil  Fowl*  with  Rice* 

Stew  the  fowl  very  slowly  in  some  dear  mutton -broth  wdl 
skimmed;  and  seasoned  with  onion,  mace,  p^pe^,  and  salt. 
About  half  an  hour  before  it  is  ready,  put  in  a  quarter  of  a 
pint  of  rice  well  washed  and  soaked.  Simmer  till  tender ; 
then  strain  it  fVom  the  broth,  and  put  the  rice  on  a  sieve  before 
the  fire.  Keep  the  fowl  hot,  lay  it  on  the  middle  of  the  dish, 
and  the  rice  round  it  without  the  broth.  The  broth  will  be 
▼ery  nice  to  eat  as  such  ;  but  the  less  liquor  the  fowl  is  done 
with  the  better.     Gravy,  or  parsley  and  butter,  for  sauce. 

« 

To  roast  Fowls  or  Capon*. 

They  must  be  killed  a  couple  of  days  in  moderate,  and 
more  in  cold  weather,  before  they  are  dressed,  or  they  will  eat 
tough :  a  good  criterion  of  the  ripeness  of  poultry  for  the  spit 
is  the  ease  with  which  you  can  then  pull  out  the  feathers];  and 
when  a  fowl  is  plucked,  leave  a  few  to  help  you  to  ascertain 
this.  Manage  them  exactly  in  the  same  manner,  and  send 
them  up  with  the  same  sauces  as  a  turkey,  only  they  require 
proportionably  less  time  at  the  fire :  viz.  a  full-grown  five-toed 
fowl,  abDut  an  hour  and  a  quarter ;  a  moderate  sized  one,  an 
hour ;  and  a  chicken  from  thirty  to  forty  minutes. 

Here  also,  pork  sausages  fried  are  in  general  a  favourite 
accompaniment,  or  turkey  stuffing ;  put  in  plenty  of  it,  so  as 
to  plump  out  the  fowl,  which  must  be  tied  closely  (both  at  the 
neck  and  rump,)  to  keep  in  the  stuffing. 

Some  cooks  put  the  liver  of  the  fowl  into  this  forcemeat, 
and  others  rub  it  up  with  flour  and  butter,  to  thicken,  and 
give  flavour  to  the  gravy. 


POVLTRT  AKD  GAMS.  190 

When  the  bird  la  sliiied  'and  truued,  score  the  giszard 
vhdy,  dip  it  into  tpelted  battef^  let  it  dndn,  and  then  season 
it  with  Cayenne  and  salt^  put  it  imder  otie  pinion,  and  the  liver 
vnder  the  other :  V>  prevent  it  getting  hardened  or  scorched, 
cover  it  with  double  papet  buttered. 

Take  care  that  your  roasted  poultry  b|  well  browned ;  it  is 
as  itidispensabloj  that  roasted  poultry  should  have  a  rich  brown 
complexion,  as  boiled  poultry  should  have  a  delicate  white  one. 

To  broil  Fowls. 

We  can  only  recommend  this  method  of  dressing,  when  the 
fire  is  not  good  enough  for  roasting. 

Pick  and  truss  your  fowl  the  sftttie  as  for  boiling,  cut  it  open 

down  the  back,  wipe  the  ibside  dean  with  a  cloth,  season  it 

with  a  little  pepper  and  salt,  have  a  clear  fire,  and  set  the  grid- 

iicm  at  a  good  distance  over  it,  lay  the  chicken  on  with  the 

inside  towards  the  fire ;  (you  may  egglt,  and  strew  some  grated 

bread  oyer  it)  and  broil  it.  till  it  is  a  fine  brown :  take  care  the 

flsihy  side  is  not  butnt.     Lay  it  on  a  hot  dish,  pickled  mush-* 

I  rooms,  or  mushroom  sauce,  thrown  over  it,  or  parsley  and 

f  butter,  or   melted   butter  flavoured   with  mushroom   catsup. 

Garnish  it  with  slices  of  lemon,  and  the  liver  and  gizzard,  slit 

and  notched^  and  seasoned  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  broiled 

f  nicely  brown,  and  some  jslices  of  lemon. 

To  broil  Fowh  another  waif. 

Cut  a  large  fowl  ints^  four  quarters^  put  them  on  a  bird- 
spit,  and  tie  that  on  another  spit,  and  half-roast ;  oir  half-roast 
the  whole  fowl,  and  finish  eiiher  on  the  gridiron,  which  wiU 
make  it  less  dry  than  if  wholly  broiled.  The  fowl  that  is  not 
cut  before  roasted,  must  be  split  down  the  back  after. 

To  hash  Fowls, 

Cut  up  your  fowl  as  for  eating,  then  put  it  into  a  stew* 
pan  with  half  a  pint  of  gravy,  a  tea^spoonful  of  lemon  pickle, 
a  little  catsup,  and  a  slice  of  lemon.  Thicken  it  with  flour  and 
hotter  ;  and  just  before  you  dish  it  up,  put  in  a  spoonful  of 
good  cream.  Lay  sippets  in  the  dish,  and  pour  the  hash  over 
them. 


900  DOMESTIC  COOCBRT. 

l}avenp&rt  Fcwh* 

Hang  young  fowls  anight;  take  the  liven,  hearts,  and 
tenderest  parts  of  the  gisaards,  shred  Very  small,  with  half  a 
handful  of  young  dary,  an  anchovy  to  each  fowl,  an  onioo^ 
and  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  boiled  hard,  with  pepper,  salt,  and 
mace,  to  your  taste,  ^tuff  the  fowls  with  this,  and  sew  up  the 
vents  and  necks  quite  dose,  that  the  water  may  not  get  in. 
Boil  them  in  salt  and  water  till  almost  done :  then  drain  themi^ 
and  put  them  into  a  stew-pan  with  butter  enough  to  brown 
them.  Serve  them  with  fine  melted  butter,  and  a  spoonful  of 
catsup,  of  either  sort,  in  the  dish, 

A  nice  way  to  dress  a  Fowl  far  a  small  Dish. 

Bone,  singe,  and  wash  a  young  fowl :  make  a  forcemeat  of  - 
four  ounces  of  veal,  two  ounces  of  scraped  lean  of  ham,  two 
ounces  of  fat  bacon,  two  hard  yolks  of  eggs,  a  few  sweet  herbs 
chopped,  two  ounces  of  beef-suet,  a  tea^spoonful  of  lemon 
peel  minced  quite  fine,  an  anchovy,  salt,  pepper,  and  a  very 
little  cayenne.  Beat  all  in  a  mortar,  with  a  tea-cupful  of 
crumbs,  and  the  yolks  and  whites  of  three  eggs.  Stuff  the 
inside  of  the  fowl,  and  draw  the  legs  and  wings  inwards ;  tie 
the  neck  and  rump  dose.  Stew  the  fowl  in  a  white  gravy  ; 
when  it  is  done  through  and  tender,  add  a  large  cupful  of 
cream,  and  a  bit  of  butter  and  flour ;  give  it  one  boil,  and 
serve ;  the  last  thing,  add  the  squeeze  of  a  lemon. 

To  force  Fowls, 

Take  a  large  fewl,  pick  it  clean,  draw  it,  cot  it  down  the 
back,  and  take  the  skin  off  the  whole ;  cut  the  flesh  from  the 
bones,  and  chop  it  with  half  a  pint  of  oysters,  one  ounce  of 
beef  marrow,  and  a  little  pepper  and  salt.  Mix  it  up  with 
cream ;  then  lay  the  meat  on  the  bones,  draw  the  skin  over  it, 
and  sew  up  the  back.  Cut  large  thin  slices  of  bacon,  lay  them 
on  the  breast  of  your  fowl,  and  tie  them  on  with  packthread  in 
diamonds.  It  will  take  an  hour  roasting  by  a  moderate  fire. 
Make  a  good  brown  gravy  sauce,  pour  it  into  your  dish,  take 
the  bacon  off.  Jay  in  your  fowl,  and  serve  it  up.  Garnish  with 
pickles,  mushrooms,  or  oysters.  It  is  proper  for  a  side-dish  at 
dinner^  or  top-dish  for  supper. 


POULTRY  AND  GAME.  iOl 

To  braise  Fowls/ 
Trass  your  fowl  as  for  boilings  with  the  legs  in  the  body ; 
then  lay  over  it  a  layer  of  fat  bacon  cut  in  thin  slices,  wrap  it 
round  in  beet  leaves,  then  in  a  caul  of  veal,  and  put  it  into  a 
large  sauce-pan  with  three  pints  of  w.ater,  a  glass  of  Madeira 
wine,  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  two  dr  three  blades  of  niace»- 
and  half  a  lemon ;  stew  it  till  it  is  quite  tender,  then  take  it  up 
and  skim  off  the  &t;  make  your  gravy. pretty  thick  with  flour 
and  butter,  strain  it  through  a  hair  sieve,  and  put  to  it  a  pint 
of  oysters  and  a  tea- cupful  of  thick  cream ;  keep  shaking  your 
pan  over  the  fire,  and  when  it  has  simmered  a  short  time,  serve 
up  your  fowl  with  the  bacon,  beet  leaves,  and  caul  on,  and 
pour  your  sauce  hot  upon  it.  Garnish  with  barberries  and  red 
beet  root. 

To  boil  Chickens. 

After  you  have  drawn  them,  lay  them  in  skimmed  milk 
for  two  hours,  and  truss  them.  When  you  have  properly 
singed,  and  dusted  them  with  flour,  cover  them  close  in  cold 
water,  and  set  them  over  a  slow  fire.  Having  taken  off  the 
scum,  and  boiled  them  slowly  five  or  six  minutes,  take  them- 
off  the  fire,  and  keep  them  close  covered  for  half  an  hour  in  the 
water,  which  will  do  them  sufliciently,  and  make  them  plump 
and  white.  Before  you  dish  them,  det  them  on  the  fire  to 
heat ;  then  drain  them,  and  pour  over  them  white  sauce,  which 
you  must  have  made  ready  in  the  following  manner: 

Take  the  heads  and  necks  of  the  chickens,-  with  a  small  bit 
of  scrag  of  veal,  or  any  scraps  of  mutton  you'  may  have  by 
you,  and  put  them  into  a  sauce-pan,  with  a  blade  or  two  of 
mace,  and  a  few  black  pepper-corns,  an  anchovy,  a  head  of 
celery,  a  slice  of  the  end  of  a  lemon,  ahd  a  bunch  of  sweet 
herbs.  Put  to  these  a  quart  of  water,  cover  it  close,  and  let 
it  boil  till  it  is  reduced  to  half  a  pint.  Then  strain  it,  and 
thicken  it  with  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter  mixed  with  flour, 
and  boil  it  five  or  six  minutes.  Then  put  in  two  spoonfuls  o£ 
mushrooms,  and  mix  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  with  a  tea-cupfut  * 
of  cream,  and  a  little  nutmeg  grated.  Put  in  your  sauce, 
and  keep  shaking  it  over  the  fire  till  it  is  near  boiling  ;  then 
pour  it  into  your  boats,  and  serve  it  up  with  your  chickens. 
8  2d 


Terooit  Chkkms. 

P^t  them  down  to  n  goo^L  fire,  and  ainn^a  daa^  «nd  baste 
Ihem  with  butter.  Wh^n  they  are  enough^  froth  tbeni»  and 
Uy  them  in  ypur.dish.  Serve  then^  up  with  parsley  and  batter 
poured  ov^r  tfaem»  and  griivy  and  mushroom  sauce  in  boats. 
A  large  chicken  will  take  h«lf  an  hour,  a  small  ene  twenty 
mnqtes. 

7b  broil  Chickens. 

Split  your  chickens  down  the  back,  season  them  with  pep- 
per and  salt,  and  lay  them  on  the  gridiron  over  a  clear  fire^ 
and  at  a  great  distance.  Let  the  insides  continue  next  the  fire 
^  they  are  nearly  half  done ;  then  turn  them,  taking  care  that 
the  fleshy  sides  do  not  burn,  and  let  them  broil  till  they  are  of 
a  fine  brown.  Have  ready  good  gravy  sauce,  with  some  mush- 
rooms,  and  garnish  them  with  lemon  and  the  livers  broiled ; 
the  giezards  out,  sUshod,  and  broiled,  with  pepper  and  salt. 

To  fry  Chickens, 

Cut  your  chickens  into  quarters,  and  rub  ihem  with  the 
yolk  of  an  egg ;  then  strew  on  some  crumbs  of  bread,  with 
pepper,  salt,  grated  nutmeg,  and  lemon-peel,  and  chopped 
parsley.  Fry  them  in  butter,  and  when  done,  put  them  into 
your  dish  before  the  fire.  For  sauce,  thicken  some  gravy  with 
a  little  flour,  and  put  into  it  a  small  quantity  of  Cayenne  pep- 
per, some  mushroom  powder  or  catsup,  and  a  little  lemoi^ 
^uice.  When  it  is  properly  heated,  pour  it  over  the  chickens, 
and  serve  it  up. 

To  stew.  Chickens. 

Half-boil  them  in  as  much  water  as  will  just  cover  them, 
then  take  them  out,  cut  them  up,  and  take  out  the  breast  bones. 
Put  them  into  your  stew-pan  with  the  liquor,  and  add  a  blade 
of  miice,  ancl  a  little  salt  Cover  the  pan  dose,  and  set  it  over 
a  slow  fire.  Let  it  stew  till  the  chickens  are  enough,  then  put 
the  whole  into  your  dish,  and  serve  it  to  table. 

To  kiuk  CUekens. 
Cut  a  cold  chicken  into  pieces,  and  if  you  have  no  gravy; 
make  a  little  with  the  long  bones,  onion,  spioe,  Ac    Hour 
the  chicken,  and  put  into  the  gnvy,  with  white  pepper,  aslt. 


nutmegs,  and  grated  lemon.  When  k  boik^  atir  in  an  egg,  and 
mis:  it  with  a  little  cream*  As  soon  as  it  is  thoroughly  hot, 
•queesse  in  a  little  lemoti  jnioe,  thm  pttt  the  whole,  into  a  dish> 
stxe^H^  over  it  some  crumbs  of  bread,  broWn  them  With  a  sAla» 
xnandcr,  and  then  serve  it  up  hot  to  table. 

To  fiicas9U  Chickens* 

Boil  ratber  more  AaA  half,  in  a  small  quantity  of  water : 

let    them  cool ;  then  cut  up;   and  pint  to  simitier  in  a  little 

f^vy  made  of  the  liquor  they  are  boiled  in,  and  a  bit  df 

veal  or  mutton,  onion,  mace,  ai^d  lemon  peel,    some  white 

pepper,  and'a.imnoh  pf  sweet  ^cHm^     When   quite  tender^ 

keep  them  hot  while  you  thicken  the  sauce  in  the  following 

manner :  strain  it  off,  and  put  it  back  into  the  sauce-pan  with  a 

little  salt,  a  scrapie  of  nutmegs  end  a  bit  of  flour  and  butter ; 

f(lve  it  one  boil ;  and  when  yon  are  going  to  serve,  beat  up  the 

yolk  of  an  egg,  add  half  a  pint  of  oream,  aad  stir  them  over 

tbe  ire,  but  do  not  let  it  boil.     It  will  be  quite  as  good  wkh- 

Ottttheegg. 

The  gravy  may  be  made  (without  any  other  meat)  of  the 

necks,  feet»  small  wing-bones,  giasards*  and  liven ;  which  are 

ealled  the  trimmings  of  the  fbwb. 

To  puU  Ckickem. 

Takeoff  the  skin,  and  puJl  the  Assh  off  tibe  bone  of  a  cold 
fowl,  in  as  large  pieces  as  you  can :  dredge  it  with  flour,  and 
fry  it  of  a  nice  brown  in  butter.  Drain  the  butter  from  it ; 
and  then  simmer  the  iesh  in  a  good  gravy,  well  seasoned,  ana 
thiekeocd  with  a  littie  fioosr  and  butter.  Add  the  Juice  of  half 
aleilion. 

741^  j^M  Chickens  another  way. 

Cutoff  the  legs  ahd  the  whole  back  of  a  dressed  chicken ;  if 
VHider^one  the  better.  Pull  all  the  white  part  into  little  flakes 
free  from  skin ;  toss  it  Up  with  a  little  cream  thickened  with  a 
piece  of  bntter  miaLed  with  flour,  half  a  blade  of  maoe  in  pow- 
der, white  pepper,  salt,  and  a  squeese  of  lemon.  Cat  off  the 
neck-end  cf  Uie  chicken ;  sod  Inwil  the  hadt  and  sidesmen  in 
otie  piece»  end  the  two  legs  seasoned*  Put  the  hash  in  thie 
middle,  with  the  back  on  it,  and  the  two  legs  at  the  end. 


904  BOMESTIC  COOKSRY. 

Chicken  Currie, 

Cut  up  the  chickens  raw,  slice  onions^  and  fry  both  in  but- 
ter with  great  care,  of  a  fine  light  brown;  or  if  you  use 
chickens  that  have  been  dressed^  fry  only  the  onions.     Lay  the 

4 

joints,  cut  into  two  or  three  pieces  each/  into  a  stew-pan, 
with  a  veal  or  mutton  gravy,  and  a  clove  or  two  of  garlic. 
Simmer  till  the  chicken  is  quite  tender.  Half  an  hour  before 
you  serve  it,  rub  smooth  a  spoonful  or  two  of  currie  powder, 
a  spoonful  of  flour,  and  an  ounce  of  butter ;  and  add  this,  with 
four  large  spoonfuls  of  cream,  to  the  stew;  Salt  to  your  taste^ 
When  serving,  squeeze  in  a  little  lemon. 

S^ces  of  underdone  veal^  or  rabbit,  turkey,  &c  make  ex- 
cellent currie. 

Another,  mare  easily  made. 

Cut  up  a  chicken  or  young  rabbit ;  if  chicken,  take  off  the 
skin.  Roll  each  piece  in  a  mixture  of  a  large  spoonful  of  flour, 
•  and  half  an  ounce  of  currie  powder.  Slice  two  or  three  onions  ; 
and  fry  them  in  butter,  of  a  light  brown ;  then  add  the  meat, 
■and  fry  all  together  till  the  meat  begins  to  brown.  Put  it  all 
into  a  stew-pan,  and  pour  boiling  water  enough  just  to  cover 
it  Simmer  very  gently  two  or  three  hours.  If  too  thicks 
put  more  water  half  an  hour  before  serving. 

If  the  meat  has  been  dressed  before,  a  little  broth  will  be 
better  than  water :  but  the  currie  is  richer  when  made  of  fresh 
meat 

To  braise  Chickens* 

Bone  them,  and  filLthem  with  forcemeat  Lay  the  bones^ 
and  any  other  poultry  trimmings,  into  a  stew-pan, .  and  the 
chickens  on  them.  Put  to  them  a  few  onions,  a  faggot  of 
herbs,  three  blades  of  mace,  a  pint  of  stock,  and  a  glass  or 
two  of  sherry.  Cover  the  diickens  with  slices  of  baoon,  and 
then  white  paper ;  cover  the  whole  close,  and  put  them  on  a 
alow  stove  for  two  hours.  Then  take  them  up,  strain  the  braise, 
and  skim  off  the  fat  carefully ;  set  it  on  to  boil  very  quick  to  a 
glaze,  and  do  the  chickens  over  with  it  with  a  brush. 

Serve  with  a  brown  fricassee  of  mushrooms.  Before  glaz- 
ing, put  the  chicken  into  an  oven  for  a  few  minutes,  to  give  a 
little  colour. 


tOVVTKr  AND  GAMS.  205 

To  Ml  Ducki. 

When  7<m  have  scalded  and  drawn  your  ducks,  let  them 
remain  a  few  minutes  in  warm  water,  then  take  them  out,  put 
diem  into  an  earthen  pan,  and  pour  a  pint  of  boiling  milk  over 
them.  Let  them  lie  in  it  two  or  three  hours,  and  when  you 
take  them  out,  dredge  them  well  with  flour ;  put  them  hito 
cold  water,  and  cover  them  up.  Having  boiled  slowly  about 
twenty  minutes,  take  them  out,  and  smother  them  with  onion 
tauc& 

To  rooit  Duck. 

Mind  your  duck  is  well  cleaned,  and  wiped  out  with  a  clean 
doth.  For  the  stuffing  take  an  ounce  of  onion,  and  half  an 
«once  of  green  sage,  chop  them  very  fine,  and  mix  them  with 
two  ounces,  i.  e.  about  a  breakfafrt-cupful  of  bread  crumbs,  a 
very  little  black  pepper  and  salt,  and  the  yolk  of  an  egg  to  bind 
it;  mix  these  thoroughly  together,  and  put  into  the  duck. 
Another  stuffing,  may .  be  made  by  chopping  very  fine  about 
two  ounces  of  onion,  of  green  sage  leaves  about  an 
ounce,  (both  unboiled,)  four  ounces  of  bread  crumbs,  the  yolk 
and  white  of  an  egg,  and  a  little  pepper  and  salt ;  some  add  to 
this  a  minced  apple.  From  half  to  three  quarters  of  an  hour 
will  be  enough  to  roast  it,  according  to  the  size :  contrive  to 
have  the  feet  delicately  crisp,  as  some  people  are  very  fond  of 
them :  to  do  this  nicely,  you  must  have  a  sharp  fire.  Serve 
with  a  fine  gravy,  or  sage  and  onion  sauce. 

To  stew  Ducks, 

Half-roast  a  duck :  put  it  into  a  stew-pan  with  a  pint  of 
beef  gravy^  a  few  leaves  of  sage  and  mint  cut  small,  pepper 
and  salt,  and  a  small  bit  of  onion  shred  as  fine  as  possible. 
Simmer  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  and  skim  clean  ;  then  add  near 
a  quart  of  green  peas.  Cover  close,  and  simmer  near  half  an 
hour  l<Niger  Put  in  a  piece  of  butter  and  a  little  flour,  and 
give  it  one  boil ;  then  serve  in  one  dish. 

To  stew  Duck  with  green  Peas. 

Put  into  your  stew-pan  a  piece  of  fresh  butter,  and  set  it 
OQ  the  fire ;  then  put  in  you  duck,  and  turn  it  in  the  pan  two 
•r  three  minutes:  takeout  the  fat^  but  let  the  duck  remain. 


J 


2M  I^OMLKSTtC  COOKERS. 

Put  to  it  a  'pint  of  good  gftivy»  a  pint  of  peas^  two  lettuces 
cut  small,  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs>  and  a  little  pepper  and 
salt.    Covet  them  dose^  and  let  them  stew  for  half  an  hour^ 
now  and  then  shaking  the  paik.     When  they  are  jost  done, 
grate  in  a  little  nutmegs  with  a  smaQ  quantity  of  beaten  mace, 
and  thicken  it  either  with  a  piece  of  butter  rolled  in  flour,   at 
the  yolk  of  ah  egg  beat  up  with  two  or  three  spoonfula   of 
cream.    Shake  it  aU  together  for  two  or  three  minutes,  then 
take  out  the  sweet  herbs,  lay  the  duck  in  the  dish,  and  poor 
the  sauce  over  it     Garnish  with  boiled  mint  chopped  very 
fine. 

To  ha9h  Dtkks. 

Cut  a  coid  duck  into  joints ;  and  warm  it,  without  boilings, 
in  gmry,  and  a  glass  of  port  wine. 

Dressed  Ducks,  or  Geese,  hashed. 

Cut  an  onion  Into  small  dice ;  put  it  into  a  stew-patt  wilft  a 
bit  of  butter;  fry  it,  bat  do  not  let  it  get  any  colour :  put  as 
much  boiling  water  into  the  stew-pan  as  will  make  aa«Mse  for 
the  hash ;  thicken  it  with  a  little  flour,  cut  op  the  duck,  and 
put  it  into  the  sauce  to  warm ;  do  not  let  it  boil ;  season  it  with 
pepper,  salt,  and  catsup. 

The  legs  of  geese,  &c.  broiled,  and  laid  on  a  bed  of  $pfit 
sauce^  are  sent  up  for  luncheon  or  supper. 

To  boil  a  Goose. 

Singe  a  goose,  and  pour  over  it  a  quart  of  boiling  milk* 
l,et  It  continue  in  the  milk  all  night,  then  take  it  out,  and  dry 
it  well  with  a  cloth.  Cut  an  onion  very  small  with  some  sage, 
Qut  them  into  the  goose,  sew  it  up  at  the  neck  and  vent,  and 
hang  it  up  by  the  legs  till  the  next  day ;  then  pat  it  into  a  pot 
of  cold  water,  cover  it  close,  and  let  it  boil  gently  tor  an  hour. 
Serve  it  up  with  onion  sauce.  > 

To  roast  a  Goose. 

When  a  goose  is  well  picked,  singed,  and  cleaned,  make 
the  stuffing  with  about  two  ounces  of  onion,  and  half  as  much 
green  sage,  chopped  very  fine.  If  you  think  the  flavour  of 
raw  onions  too  strong,  cut  them  in  slices,  and  lay  thetn  in 


^iri.T&T  AHD  GAMBt  tOT 


• 


ooM  wator  fir  n  eonf^e  of  hour^,  or  add  as  mudi  a|»pk  or 
polaUie  as  yoo  have  of  dnion.  To  thia  add  four  ounces,  t .  e,  about 
a  kfge  breakfiut-oupfiil  of  «tale  bread  crumbs,  aul  a  very  little 
pepper  and  aalt^  'aome  cooks  add  half  the  liver,  parboiling  it 
fint,)  and  the  yolk  of  an  egg  oc  two,  and  incorporating  the 
vhole  well  together,  stuff  the  goose;  do  not  quite  fill  it,  but 
kive  a  little  room  for  the  stuffing  to  swell.  Spit  it,  tie  it  on  the 
9pit  at  both  ends,  to  prevent  its  swinging  round,  and  to  keep 
the  stuffing  from  oomitig  out.  From  an  hour  and  a  half  to  two 
hoars  will  roast  a  fine  full-grown  goose.  Send  up  gravy,  and 
^le  sauce  with  it. 

The  goose  at  Michaelmaa,  is  as  famous,  in  the  anouths  of 
the  million,  as  the  minced  pie  at  Christaias ;  but,  for  those  who 
est  with  delicacy,  it  is  by  that  time  too  full  grown.  The  true 
period,  when  the  goose  is  in  its  highest  perfection,  is  when  it 
has  jast  acquired  its  full  growth,  and  not  begun  to  harden. 
If  the  Midsummer  goose  is  insipid,  the  Michaelmas  goose  ia 
lank;  the  fine  time,  is  between  both;  firom  the  first  week  in 
A  July,  to  the  second  in  September. 

To  roast  a  green  Gocu, 

Geese  are  called  gveen,  till  they  are  about  lour  montha  old 
The  oply  difference  between  roasting  these,  and  a  full  grown 
goose,  consists  in  seasoning  it  with  pepper  and  salt,  instead  of 
ssge  and  onion,  and  roasting  it  far  forty  or  fifty  minntea 
only.    Serve  with  gooseberry  sauce. 

This  is  one  of  the  least  desirable  of  those  insipid  pre* 
mature  productions,  which  are  esteemed 


To  ragoui  a  Goose. 
Skin  your  goose,  dip  it  into  boiling  water,  and  break  the 
breast^bone,  so  that  it  may  lay  quite  fiat.  Season  it  with  peppec 
and  salt,  anda  little  mace  beaten  to  powder;  lard  it,  aiad  then 
flour  it  all  over.  Having  done  this,  take  about  a  pound  of  beef 
8aet|  and  put  into  your  stew-pan ;  and  when  melted,  boiling 
hot,  put  in  the  goose.  As  soon  as  you  find  the  goose  brown 
all  over,  put  in  a  quart  of  beef  gravy  boiling  hot,  a  bundi  of 
sweet  herlis,  and  a  blade  of  mace,  a  few  cloves,  some  whole 
pepper,  two  or  three  small  onions,  and  a  bay  leaf.  Cover  the 
Ifsn  quite  doaiew  and  let  it  stew  gently  over  a  slow  fixe.    Jf  the 


^08  DOMBSTIC  COOKBRY. 

goo9e  18  small,  it  will  be  done  in  an  boar ;  but  if  large,  an  hour 
and  a  half.     Make  a  ragout   for  it  in  the  following  manner  : 
Cut  some  tu  :iip8  and  carrots  into  small  pieces,  with  three  or 
four  onions  sliced ;  boil  all  enough  ;  put  them,  with  half  a  pint 
of  rich  beef  gravy,  into  a  sauce* pan,  with  some  pepper,   salt, 
and  a  pieoe  of  butter  rolled  in  flour.     Let  them  stew  about  a 
quarter  of  an  hour.     When  the  goose  is  done,  take  it  out   of* 
the  stew-pan,  drain  the  liquor  it  was  stewed  in  well  from   it, 
put  it  into  a  diA,  and  pour  the  ragout  over  it. 
t 

« 

To  stew  Gihkti. 

Af^er  having  thoroughly  cleaned  your  giblets  in  scalding 
"water,  put  them  into  a  sauce-pan,  just  cover  them  with  cold 
water,  and  set  them  on  the  fire ;  when  they  boil,  take  off  tlie 
scum,  and  put  in  an  onion,  three  cloves,  or  two  blades  of  maoe, 
a  few  berries  of  black  pepper,  the  same  of  allspice,  and  half 
a  teo^spoonful  of  salt ;  cover  the  stew-pan  close,  and  let  it  sim- 
.  mer  till  the  giblets  are  quite  tender ;  this  will  take  from  one  hour 
and  a  half,  to  two  and  a  half,  according  to  the  age  of  the  gib- 
lets :  the  pinions  will  be  done  first,  and  must  then  be  taken  out, 
and  put  in  again  to  warm  when  the  gizzards  are  done :  watch 
them  that  they  da  not  get  too  much  done.    Take  them  out,  and 
thicken  the  sauce  with  flour  and  butter;  let  it  boil  half  an  hour, 
or  till  there  is  just  enough  to  eat  with  the  giblets ;  and  then 
strain  it  through  a  tamis  into  a  clean  stew-pan;  cut  the  giblets 
into  mouthfuls,  put  them  into  the  sauce,  with  the  juice  of  half 
a  lemon,  a  table-qpobnful  of  mushroom  catsup;  pour  the  whole 
into  a  soup  dish,  with  sippets  of  bread  at  the  bottom* 

Pigeana. 

Pigeons  may  be  dressed  in  so  many  ways,  that  they  are 
very  useful.    The  good  flavour  of  them  depends  very  much  on     i 
their  being  cropped  and  drawn  as  soon  as  killed.     No  other     > 
bird  requires  so  much  washing. 

Pigeons  left  from  dinner  the  day  before  may  be  stewed,  or 
made  into  a  pie  ;  in  either  case,  care  must  be  taken  not  to  over- 
do  them,  which  will  make  them  stringy.  Tbey  need  only  be 
heated  up  in  gravy  made  ready ;  and  forcemeat  balls  may  be 
fried  and  added,  instead  of  putting  a  stufling  into  them.  If 
for  a  pie,  let  beef-steaks  be  stewed  in  a  little  water,  and  pnft 


B09LTET  AKO  GAME*  800 

«Qld  vater  aadfer  theoi^  and  cover  cacb  pigeoD  wiA  «  piim  of 
&t  hsooQ^  to  keep  them  mout. 


ToboU 

When  yoa  draw  jour  pigeoiw,  be  caiefiil  t9  take  eat 
the  craw  as  dean  as  possible.  Wash  them  in  several  waters^ 
and  having  cut  off  the  pmions,  torn  their  legs  under  their 
wiiiga.  Let  them  boil  very  dowly  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  and 
they  will  be  snQciently  done.  Dish  them  up,  and  pour  over 
them  good  melted  hotter;  lay  round  the  dish  a  little  .fafoooU| 
snd  serve  them  up  with  melted  butter  and  paraley  in  boata. 
Jbugy  shottkl  be  boUed  by  themsdvea,  and  may  be  ^aten  with 
baeon,  greens^  q^inach»  or  aqMuragus* 

To  romt  Pigt^n^. 

When  the  pigeons  are  ready  for  imsfingy  if  youaie  desired 
tp  stuff  tbenv  <^^^  wome  green  parsley  very  fine»  the  liver^ 
and  «  bit  of  butter  together,  with  a  little  p€|^»er  aqd  salt»  and 
fill  th9  belly  of  each  bifd  with  it.  They  will  be  enough  in 
about  twenty  or  thirty  minutes :  send  up  parsley  and  butter  in 
die  dish  under  them,  and  «ome  in  a  boat,  and  garnish  with 
crisp  paraley,  or  ftied  faiead  crumba.  A  little  melted  hatter 
nay  be  pnt  into  the  dish  with  them,  and  the  gravy  that  runa 
6am  them  will  mix  with  it  into  fine  sauce. 

Pigeons  iare  in  the  greatest  perffection  fVom  Midenmrner  to 
Michaelmas ;  Aeie  is  then  the  most  plentiful  and  best  fbod  fcv 
thetp ;  and  Aeir  finest  growth,  is  just  when  they  are  fuU 
finthered.  When  they  are  in  the  pen^ftathers,  thegr  aie  flabby  | 
when  they  are  fuQ  grown,  and  have  flown  soma  time,  they  are 
loagh.  Game  and  poultry  are  best  when  Ihey  have  just  done 
gfowing,  t.  e.  as  soon  as  Nature  has  perftcted  her  work. 

When  pigeons  are  fire^h,  they  have  their  foU  relish ;  hut  it 
goes  entirely  off  with  a  very  little  keeping ;  nor  ia  it  any  way 
so  well  preserved,  as  by  roasting  them:  when  they  are  put  into 
a  pie,  they  'are  generally  baked  to  rags,  and  taste  more  of  pep« 

per  and  sak  than  any  thing  ^'*^- 

• 

To  IfffoU  Pig^aws, 

To  be  worth  the  teouUe  of  picking,  they  must  be  tvell 
gniwn>  and  well  ttd. 

8  2  c 


2L0  '  BOM'ESTIC  COOKERY. 

Clean  them  well,  and  pepper  and  salt  them ;  broQ  them  ovei^ 
a  clear  slow  fire ;  turn  them  often^  and  put  a  little  butter  on 
them:  when  they  are  done,  pour  over  them,  either  stewed  or 
pickled  mushrooms,  or  catsup  and  melted  butter. 
Garnish  with  fried  bread  crumbs,  or  sippets. 

To  hroU  Pigeons  another  way.  ^ 

When  the  pigeons  are  trussed  as  for  boiling,  flat  themt  with 
a  cleaver,  taking  care  not  to  break  the  skin  of  the  backs,  or 
breasts ;  season  them  with  pepper  and  salt,  a  little  bit  of  but- 
ter, and  a  tea-spoonful  of  water,  and  tie  them  close  at  botb 

• 

ends ;  so  when  they  are  brought  to  table,  they  bring  their 
sauce  with  them.  Egg  and  dredge  them  well  with  grated 
bread  (mixed  with  spice  and  sweet  herbs,  if  you  please,)  then 
lay  them  on  the  gridiron,  and  turn  them  frequently :  if  your 
fire  is  not  very  dear,  lay  them  on  a  sheet  of  paper  well  but- 
tered, to  keep  them  from  getting  smoked.  They  are  much 
better  broiled  whole. 

Serve  with  the  same  sauce  as  in  the  preceding  receipt. 

To  stew  Pigeons. 
Take  care  that  they  are  quite  fresh,  and  carefully  cropped, 
drawn,  and  washed ;  then  soak  them  half  an  hour.  In  the 
mean  time,  cut  a  hard  white  cabbage  in  slices  (as  if  for  pick* 
ling,)  into  water :  drain  it,  and  then  boil  it  in  milk  and  water; 
drain  it  again,  and  lay  some  of  it  at  the  bottom  of  a  stew-pan. 
Put  the  pigeons  upon  it,  but  first  season  them  well  with  pep« 
per  and  salt;  and  cover  them  with  the  remainder  of  the  cab- 
bage. Add  a  little  broth,  and  stew  gently  till  the  pigeons  are 
tender ;  then  put  among  them  two  or  three  spoonfuls  of  cream^ 
and  a  piece  of  butter  and  fiour,  for  thickening.  After  a  boil  or 
two,  serve  the  birds  in  the  middle,  and  the  cabbage  placed 
round  them. 

Pigeons  in  a  Hole. 

Pick,  draw,  and  wash  four  young  pigeons,  stick  their  legs 
in  their  bellies  as  you  do  boiled  pigeons^  and  season  them  with 
pepper,  salt,  and  beaten  mace.  Put  into  the  belly  of  each 
pigeon  a  lump  of  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut.  Lay  your 
pigeons  in  a  pie  dish^  pour  over  them  a  batter  made  of  three 


POULTRY  AND  GAME.  211 

9gg^  two  qpoonfals  of  flour,  and  half  a  pint  of  good  milk* 
Bake  tbem  in  a  moderate  oven,  and  serve  them  to  table  in  the 
sunediah. 

To  jug  Pigeons^ 
Pluck  and  draw  six  pigeons,  wash  them  clean,  and  dry 
them  with  a  doth  ;  season  them  with  beaten  mace,  white  pep- 
per, and  salt.  Pat  them  into  a  jug  with  half  a  pound  of  but- 
ter upon  them..  Stop  up  the  jug  close. with  a  doth,  that  no 
steam  Can  get  out;  then  set  on  a  kettle  of  boiling  water,  and 
let  it  boil  ah  hour  and  a  half.  Then  take  out  your  pigeons, 
put  the  gravy  that  is  come  from  .them  into  a  pan,  and  add  to  it 
a  spoonful  of  wine,  one  of  catsup,  a  slice  of  lemon,  half  an 
anchovy  chopped,  and  a  bundle  of  sweet  herbs.  Boil  it  a  little, 
and  then  thicken  it  with  a  piece  of  biitter  rolled  in  flour :  lay 
yoar  pigeons  in  the  dish,  and  strain  your  gravy  over  them. 
Garnish  with  parsley  and  red  cabbage. — This  makes  a  very 
pretty  side  or  comer  dish. 

To  pot  Pigeons, 

Let  them  be  quite  fresh ;  clean  them  carefully,  and  season 
diem  with  salt  and  pepper :  lay  them  dose  in  a  small  deep  pan; 
fi>r  the  smaller  the  surface,  and  the  closer  they  are  packed,  the 
less  butter  will  be  wanted.  Cover  them  with  butter,  then  with 
very  thick  paper  tied  down,  and  bake  them.  When  cold,  put 
them  dry  into  pots  that  will  hold. two  or  three  in  each ;  and 
pour  butter  over  them,  using  that  which  was  baked  as  part. 
Observe  that  the  butter  should  be  pretty  thick  over  them,  if 
they  are  to  be  kept.  If  pigeops  were  boned,  and  then  put  in 
an  oval  form  into  the  pot,  they  would  lie  closer,  and  require 
less  butter.  They  may  be  stuffed  with  a  fine  forcemeat  made 
with  veal,  bacon,  &c.  and  then  they  will  eat  excellently.  If 
a  high  flavour  is  approved  of,  add. mace,  allspice,  and  a  little 
cayenne,  before  baking. 

To  pickle  Pigeons, 

Bone  them ;  turn  the  inside  out,  and  lard  it.  Season  with 
a  little  allspice  and  salt,  in  fine  powder ;  then  turn  them  again, 
and  tie  the  neck  and  rump  with  thread.  Put  them  into  boil- 
ing water :  let  them  boil  a  minute  or  two  to  plump :  take  them 


9&  BOMteStiG  tOOVHSHt. 

out,  iind  dty  Ih^m  well ;  then  put  ihem  boiling  hot  Mto  ibe 
pfckle>  wbich  must  be  made  of  eqtud  quanUtiee  of  whke  l^iae 
and  white  Wine  vinegar^  with  white  pepper  and  allspice^  sliised- 
ginger,  and  nutmeg,  and  two  or  three  bay-leaves.  When  it 
boils  up,  put  the  pigeons  in.  If  they  are  small,  a  quarter  of 
on  hour  will  do  Uiem  ;  but  they  will  take  twenty  minutes  if 
larg^.  Then  take  them  out,  wipe  them,  axid  let  them.  toclL 
When  the  pickle  is  cold,  take  the  Iktoff  fkom  it,  and  put  them  m 
again.  Keep  them  in  a  stone  jar,  tied  down  with  a  Madder  ie 
kedp  out  the  air. 

Instead  of  litfding,  put  into  some  a  stuffing  made  of  htofd 
jpolks  of  eggs  and  marrow,  in  equd  quantities,  witb  sweet 
herbs,  pepper,  salt,  andtea'ce. 

Pigetms  in  Jelfy. 

Save  some  of  the  fiquor  in  whidi  a  knuckle  of  yeal  has 
been  bojM :  or  boil  a  ealPs  or  a  neat's  foot;  put  the  brdth  into 
a  pan  with  a  blade  of  mace,  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  some 
white  pepper,  lemon  peel,  a  slice  of  lean  bacon,  and  the 
pigeons.  Bake  them,  and  let  thtai  stand  to  be  cold.  Season 
them  as  you  like,  t>elbre  baking.  When  donie,  take  diem  out 
of  the  liquor,  cover  them  dose  to  preserve  the  oolour,  and 
deartihe  jellyliy  boiling  with  the  whites  of  two  eggs;  flien 
strain  it  through  a  ^ck  cloth  dipped  in  boiling  water,  and  put 
into  a  sieve.  The  ikt  must  be  perfectly  removed,  before  it  be 
cleared.    Put  the  jelly  over  and  round  them  rough. 

Tkemme,  e  hemUifid  Di$h. 

Pick  two  veiy  nice  pigeons ;  and  make  them  look  as  well 
as  possible  by  singeiiig,  washing,  and  cleaning  the  heads  well. 
Leave  the  heads  and  the  feet  on,  but  the  nails  must  be  clipped 
diose  to  the  claws.  Roast  them  of  a  very  nice  brown;  and 
when  done,  pat  a  little  sprig  of  myrtle  into  the  bill  of  each* 
Have  ready  a  savoury  jelly,  as  before,  and  with  it  hal&fill  a 
bowl  of  such  a  size  as  shall  be  proper  to  turn  down  on  the  dish 
you  mean  it  to  be  served  in.  When  the  jelly  and  the  birds  are 
cold,  see  that  no  gravy  hang^  to  the  birds,  and  tiien  lay  them 
upside  down  in  die  jelly.  Befiire  the  rest  df  it  begins  to  eet, 
potnr  it  over  the  birds,  so  as  to  be  three  inches  above  the  feet 
lUs  dioidd  begone  fidl  twuty >fag  hems  before  iMving. 


TMhtKir  Aim  oAii<.  213 

TfciB  diili  luto  a  v^iy  handaoine  sppesnoioe  in  Ae  micldle 
M&ge  ^  «  MRSoad  QDurse ;  ^r^  ulien  safred  with  the  jdlj 
roughed  Ua^e^  ttnakesft  side'^r  comer  tlnng^  ils  sbe  being 
then  less.  The  head  ^eald  he  kept  up  «  if  alive,  by  tying 
the  neck  wiXb.  some  duead,  and  the  legs  bent  as  if  the  pigeon 
lit  npon  them. 

These  delicate  Htde  birds  are  in  high  season  in  November. 
When  they  are  picked^  gutted,  and  cleaned,  truss  them; 
bnuh  titem  with  the  yolk  of  an  togg,  and  then  roll  them  in 
bread  crtinibs ;  spit  them  ^n  a  lark  spit,  and  tie  that  on  to  a 
larger  spit,  ten  or  tifteen  minutes  at  a  quick  fire  will  be  enough  ; 
haste  them  with  iVesh  butter  while  tiiey  are  roasting,  and  sprin- 
kle them  with  br^ad  crumbs  till  they  are  well  covered  widi 


Far  ihe  sance,  fry  some  grated  bread  in  clarified  butter,  and 
set  it  to  drain  before  the  fire,  thaft  it  may  harden :  serve  the 
cramba  under  the  larks  when  you  dish  &em,  and  garnish  them 
with  alices  of  lemon. 

Wheat-ears  are  dressed  in  the  same  way  as  larks, 

eAME. 

Directions  far  hoping  Game^ 

If  birds  are  over«kept,  their  legs  will  be  dry«  their  eyes 
madh  sunk,  and  the  vent  will  become  s<^  and  somewhat  dis- 
coloiued.  The  first  place  to  ascertain  if  thc^  are  beginning  to 
be  Ugh,  is  the  inside  of  their  bills,  where  it  is  notaniss  to  put 
some  hether  strnw,  or  spicc^  if  you  want  to  keep  them  for  any 
length  of  time.  Birds  that  have  fidleii  into  the  water,  or  have 
not  had  time  to  get  cold,  should  not  be  packed  like  others,  but 
sent  openly,  and  dressed  as  soon  as  possible. 

Sportsmen  are  often  heartily  abused  by  their  acquaintance, 
for  sending  ibem  tough  and  good-for-nothing  game,  while 
probably  the  blame  should,  in  many  instances,  rest  with  them- 
selves, or  their  pudding-headed  cook,  who,  may  be,  dresses  an 
old, pheasant  or  hare  the  very  day  after  it  was  killed !  or  per- 
haps, while  engrossed  in  a  story  or  argument,  leaves  it  to  roast 
away,  tiU  there  remains  neither  juice  nor  flavour. 


214  POMESTIC  COOKBRY* 

All  game  should  be  kept  till  properly  tender,  and  oug^ht  not 
to  be  thrown  away  even  when  it  has  been  kept  a  very  lon^  time  ; 
for  when  it  seems  to  be  spoiled,  it  may  often  be  made  fit  for 
eating,  by  nicely  cleaning  it,  and  washing  with  vinegar   and 
water.     If  there  is  danger  of  birds  not  keeping,  draw,  crop, 
and  pick  them ;  then  wash  in  two  or  three  waters,  and  rub 
them  with  salt.     Have  ready  a  large  sauce-pan  of   boiling 
water,  and  plunge  them  into  it  one  by  one ;  drawing  them  up 
and  down  by  the  legs,  that  the  water  may  pass  through  them. 
Let  them  stay  five  or  six  minutes  in ;  then  hang  them  up  in  a 
cold  place.     When  drained,  pepper  and  salt  the  insides  well. 
Before  roasting,  wash  them  well.     The  most  delicate    birds, 
even  grouse,  may  be  preserved  thus.     Those  that  live  by  suc- 
tion cannot  be  done  this  way,  as  they  are  never  drawn ;  and 
perhaps  the  heat  might  make  them  worse,  as  the  water  could 
not  pass  through  them ;  but  they  bear  being  high.     Lumps  of 
charcoal  put  about  birds  and  meat  will  preserve  them  fbom 
taint,  and  restore  what  is  spoiling. 

Old  pheasants  may  be  distinguished  by  the  length  and 
sharpness  of  their  spurs,  which  in  the  yoonger  ones  are  short 
and  blunt. 

Old  partridges  are  known  during  the  early  part  of  the 
season,  by  their  legs  being  of  a  pale  blue,  instead  of  a  yellow- 
ish brown :  so  that  when  a  Londoner  receives  his  brace  of  blue- 
legged  birds  in  September,  he  should  immediately  snap  their 
legs  and  draw  out  the  sinews,  by  meant  of  pulling  off  the  feet, 
instead  of  leaving  them  to  torment  him,  like  so  many  strings, 
when  he  would  be  wishing  to  enjoy  his  repast.  This  remedy 
to  make  tlie  legs  tender,  removes  the  objection  to  old  birds, 
provided  the  weather  will  admit  of  their  being  sufficiently 
kept ;  and  indeed  they  are  then  often  preferable,  from  having  a 
higher  flavour. 

To  boil  Pheasants. 
These  must  be  boiled  in  plenty  of  water.  If  it  be  a  soaall 
one,  half  an  hour  will  be  sufficient ;  but  if  a  large  one,  three 
quarters.  For  sauce,  stew  some  heads  of  celery  cut  very 
fine,  thickened  with  cream,  and  a  small  piece  of  butter  rolled 
in  flour^  and  season  with  salt  to  your  palate.    When  your  bird 


POULTRY  AND  GAMB.  2l5 

k  done,  pour  the  sauce  over  it,  and  garnish  the  dish  with  thin 
slices  of  lemon. 

To  roast  Pheasants* 

This  bird  requires  a  smart  fire,  but  not  a  fierce  one.  Thirty 
minntes  will  roast  a  young  bird  ;  and  forty  or  fifty  a  full  grown 
{feasant.  Pick  and  draw  it,  cut  a  slit  in  the  back  of  the 
neck,  and  take  out  the  craw,  but  don't  cut  the  head  off;  wipe 
the  inside  of  the  bird  with  a  dean  cloth,  twist  the  legs  close 
to  the  body,  leave  the  feet  on,  but  cut  the  toes  off;  don't  turn 
the  head  under  the  wing,  but  truss  it  like  a  fowl :  it  is  much 
easier  to  carve:  baste  it,  butter  and  froth  it,  and  prepare  sauce 
for  it,  made  as  follows. 

Put  a  small  teapcupful  of  bread-crumbs  into  a  stew-pan, 
poor  on  it  as  much  milk  as  it  will  soak  up,  and  a  little  more ; 
cv,  instead  of  the  milk,  take  the  giblets,  head,  neck,  and  legs, 
&c.  of  the  poultry,  &c.  and  stew  them,  and  moisten  the  bread 
with  this  liquor ;  put  it  on  the  fire  with  a  middling  sized  onion, 
and  a  dozen  berries  of  pepper  or  allspice,  or  a  little  mace ;  let 
it  boil,  then  sdr  it  well,  and  let  it  simmer  till  it  is  quite  stiff,  and 
then  put  to  it  about  two  table-spoonfuls  of  cream  or  melted 
butter,  or  a  little  good  broth ;  take  out  the  onion  and  pepper, 
and  it  is  ready. 

We  believe  that  the  rarity  of  this  bird  is  its  best  recommen- 
dation; and  the  character  given  it  by  an  ingenious  French 
author,  is  just  as  good  as  it  deserves.  "Its  flesh  is  naturally 
tough,  and  owes  all  its  tenderness  and  succulence  to  the  long 
time  it  is  kept,  before  it  is  cooked."  Therefore  suspend  it  by 
one  of  the  long  tail-feathers,  and  the  pheasant's  falling  from  it, 
is  the  criterion  of  its  ripeness  and  readiness  for  the  spit. 

« 

Mock  Pheasant, 

If  you  have  only  one  pheasant,  and  wish  for  a  companion  for 
it,  get  a  fine  young  fowl,  of  as  Dear  as  may  be  the  same  size  as 
the  bird  to  be  matched,  and  make  game  of  it  by  trussing  it  like 
the  pheasant,  and  dressing  it  according  to  the  above  directions* 
Few  persons  will  discover  the  pheasant  from  the  fowl,  especi' 
allj  if  the  latter  has  been  kept  four  or  five  days. 

The  peculiar  flavour  of  the  pheasant  (like  that  of  other 
game)  is  principally  acquired  by  long  keeping. 


A 


216  IKXMBSTIC  COOKERY^ 

To  st€w  Pkeuumtg, 

Put  into  yoar  stew-pan^  with  the  pheasant,  aa  maoh  veal 
broth  as  will  covef  it,  and  let  it  stew  till  there  is  just  liquor 
enough  left  for  sauce.  Then  «c«m  it,  and  put  in  artichoke 
bottofu  parboiled,  a  little  beaten  mace,  a  glass  of  wine,  and 
some  pepper  and  salt.  If  it  is  not  sufficiently  siihstanrial, 
thicken  it  with  a  piece  of  butter  rolled  in  flour,  and  sqaeese  ia 
a  little  lemon  juice.  Then  take  up  the  phaasant>  pourthe  sance 
over  it,  and  put  force-meat  balls  into  the  dish« 

To  boil  PmrMdget. 

Boil  them  quick  in  a  good  deal  of  water^  and  fifteen  mimitca 
*will  be  sufficient.    For  sauce,  take  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  crcaam, 
andahitof  fresh  butter  about  the  size  of  a  walnut.   Stir  it  one 
way  till  it  is  melted,  and  then  poor  it  over  the  birds. 

To  roa$t  Partridges* 

Partridges  are  cleaned  and  trussed  in  the  same  manner  as  a 
pheasant,  (but  the  ridiculous  custom  of  tucking  the  1^^  into 
each  other,  makes  them  very  troublesome  to  carve ;)  the  breast 
is  so  plump,  it  will  require  almost  as  much  roasting :  serve  them 
up  with  the  same  sauce  as  directed  for  pheasants. 

If  you  wish  to  preserve  them  longer  than  you  think  they 
will  keep  good  undressed,  half  roast  them,  they  will  keep  two 
(ff  three  days  longer,  or  make  a  pie  of  them* 

To  stew  Partridges, 

Truss  your  partridges  in  the  same  manner  as  &r  roast* 
ing,  stuff  the  craws,  .and  lard  them  down  each  side  of  the 
breast ;  then  roU  a  lump  of  butter  in  pepper,  salt,  and  beaten 
mace,  and  put  into  the  bellies.  Sew  up  the  vents,  and  then 
put  them  into  a  stew«pan,  with  a  quart  of  good  gravy,  s 
spoonful  of  Madeira  wine,  the  same  of  catsup,  a  tea-^Kxmful 
of  lemon  pickle,  half  the  quantity  of  mushroom  powder,  one 
anchovy,  half  a  lemon,  and  a  sprig  of  sweet  marjoram.  Cover 
the  pan  close,  and  stew  them  half  an  hour ;  then  take  them  out, 
and  thicken  the  gravy.  Boil  it  a  little,  and  pour  it  over  the 
partridges^  and  lay  round  them  artichoke  bottoms  boiled  and 
cut  in  quarters,  and  the  yolks  of  four  hard  eggs.  Wood- 
cocks may  be  stewed  in  the  same  manner. 


( 


VACrLTKT  AUD  GAMXi  Si9 


To  pat 

Clefln  tliem  nicely ;  and  season  with  mace,  allspice,  white 
pepper,  and  salt,  in  fine  powder.  Rab  every  part  well ;  then 
hjr  die  breast  downwards  in  a  pan,  and  pack  the  birds  as  close 
as  yea  poasibfy^  can.  But  a  good  deal  of  batter  on  them ; 
then  cover  the  pan  wit6  a  coarse  floor-paste,  and  a  paper  over, 
tie  it  close,  and  bake.  When  cold,  put  the  birds  into  pots, 
and  cover  them  with  batter 

A  tetf  ehettp  icfttgf  of  potting  Anmb< 

IVepare  them  as  directed  in  the  last  receipt ;  and  when 
baked  and  grown  cold,  cut  them  into  proper  pieces  fbr  helping, 
pack  them  dose  into  a  large  potting  pan,  and  (if  possible)  leave 
no  spaces  to  receive  the  butter.  Cover  them  with  butter,  and 
one-third  part  less  will  be  wanted  than  when  the  Inrds  are 
done  whole.  The  butter  that  has  covered  potted  things  will 
serve  for  bastitig,  or  for  paste  for  meat  pies. 

To  clarify  butter  for  potted  things,  put  it  into  a  sauce-boat, 
and  set  that  over  the  fire  in  a  stew-pan  that  has  a  little  wi^er 
in.  When  melted,  take  care  not  to  pour  the  milky  parts  over 
the  potted  things :  they  will  sink  to  the  bottom. 

To  roaot  Black  Cock,  Moor  Gnme,  mid  Grome* 

These  are  all  to  be  roasted  like  partridges :  the  .black  cock 
inU  take  as  much  time  as  a  pheasant,  and  moor  game  nnd 
grouse  as  the  partridge.  Send  op  with  them  currant  jelly,^ 
and  fried  bread  crumbs. 

..  To  pot  Moot  dame. 

Pick,  singe,  and  wash  the  birds  nicely :  then  dry  them ; 
and  season,  inside  and  out,  pretty  high,  with  pepper,  mace, 
nutmeg,  allspice,  and  salt.  Pack  them  in  as  small  a  pot  as 
win  hold  them,  cover  dietdi  with  butter,  and  bake  in  a  very 
alow  oven.  When  cold,  take  off  the  butter,  dry  them  from 
the  gravy,  and  put  one  bird  into  each  pot,  which  should  just 
fit  Add  as  much  more  butter  as  will  cover  them,  but  take 
care  that  it  does  not  oil.  The  best  way  to  melt  it  is,  by  warm- 
ing it  in  a  basin  set  in  a  bowl  of  hot  water. 
6  2  F 


tlS  BOMB8TIC  COOKKRT. 

To  roast  Wild  Fowl 

The.  flavour  is  ))e8t  preserved  without  rtuflSng.  Put 
pepper^  salt,  and  a  piece  of  butter^  into  each.  Wild  fowl 
require  much  less  dressing  than  tame :  they  should  be  served 
of  a  fine  colour,  and  well  frothed  up*  A  rich  brown  gravy 
should  be  sent  in  the  dish :  and  when  the  breast  is  cut  into 

< 

slices,  before  taking  off  the  bone,  a  squeeze  of  lemon,  with 
pepper  and  salt,  is  a  great  improvement  to  the  flavour.  To 
take  off  the  fishy  taste  which  wild  fowl  sometimes  have,  pot 
an  onion,  salt,  and  hot  water,  into  the  dripping-pan,  and  baate 
them  for  the  first  ten  minutes  with  this ;  then  take  away  the 
pan,  and  baste  constantly  with  butter. 

To  roast  Wild  Du6k$. 

For  roasting  a  wild  duck,  you  must  have  a  dear  brisk  fire^ 
and  a  hot  spit ;  it  must  be  browned  upon  the  outside,  without 
being  sodden  within.  To  have  it  well  firothed,  and  full  of 
gravy,  is  the  nicety.  Prepare  the  fire,  by  stirring  and  raking 
it  just  before  the  bird  is  laid  down,  and  fifteen  or  twenty 
minutes  will  do  it  in  the  fashionable  way ;  but  if  you  like  it  a 
little  more  done,  allow  it  a  few  minutes  longer :  if  it  is  too 
much,  it  will  lose  its  flavour.  Put  a  good  gravy  upon  them, 
and  serve  with  shalot  sauce. 

To  roast  Widgeons,  Teal,  and  Dun-birds. 

They  are  dressed  exactly  as  the  wild  duck ;  only  that  less 
time  is  requisite  for  a  widgeon,  and  still  less  for  a  teal. 

To  boil  Woodcocks  or  Snipes. 

Snipes,  or  woodcocks  must  be  boiled  in  good  strong  broth, 
or  beef  gravy,  which  you  must  make  as  follows:  Cut  a  pound 
of  lean  beef  into  small  pieces,  and  put  it  into  four  quarts  of 
water,  with  an  onion,  a  bundle  of  sweet  herbs,  a  blade  or  two 
of  mace,  six  doves,  and  some  whole  pepper.  Cover  it  dose, 
let  it  boil  till  it  is  half  wasted,  then  strain  it  off,  and  put  the 
gravy  into  a  sauce-pan,  with  salt  enough  to  season  it.  Draw 
the  birds  clean,  but  take  particular  care  of  the  guts.  Put  the 
birds  into  the  gravy,  cover  them  close,  and  ten  minutes  will 
boil  them.  In  the  meantime  cut  the  guts  and  liver  small,  then 
take  a  littie  of  the  gravy  the  birds  are  boiling  in,  and  stew  the 


F01JLTRT  AND  OAM]if.  2ltf 

gnts  in  it  with  a  Uade  of  mace.  Take  about  as  much  of  the 
cmmb  of  bread  as  the  inside  of  a  roU^  and  rub  or  grate  it  very 
mudl,  into  a  dean  cloth ;  then  put  into  a  pan  with  some  but- 
ter»  and  fiy  it  till  crisp,  and  of  a  fine  light  brown  colour* 
When  your  birds  are  ready,  take  about  half  a  pint  of  the. 
liquor  they  were  boiled  in,  and  add  to  the  guts  two  spoonfuls 
of  red  wine,  and  a  piece  of  butter  about  the  size  of  a  walnut, 
rolled  in  flour.  Set  them  on  the  fire,  and  shake  your  sauce- 
psn  often,  (but  by  no  means  stir  it  with  a  spoon)  till  the  but-i 
ter  is  melted :  then  put  in  the  fried  crumbs,  give  the  sauce-pan 
another  shake,  take  up  your  birds,  lay  them  in  the  dish,  and 
pour  your  sauce  over  them.     Garnish  with  sliced  lemon. 

To  roast  Woodcocks. 

Woodcocks  should  not  be  drawn.  Truss  their  legs  dose  to 
the  body,  and  run  an  iron  skewer  through  each  thigh,  close  to 
the  body,  and  tie  them  on  a  small  bird-spit ;  put  them  to  roast 
St  a  dear  fire ;  cut  as  many  slices  of  bread  as  you  have  bivds, 
toast  or  fry  them  a  delicate  brown,  and  lay  them  in  the  drip- 
ping-pan under  the  birds,  to  catch  the  trail ;  baste  them  with 
batter,  and  firoth  them  with  fiour  ;  lay  the  toast  on  a  hot  dish, 
and  the  birds  on  the  toast;  pour  some  good  beef  gravy  into  the 
dish,  and  send  some  iip  in  a  boat :  twenty  or  thirty  minutes 
will  roast  them.     Garnish  with  slices  of  lemon. 

Some  epicures  like  this  bird  very  much  underdone,  and 
direct,  that  a  woodcock  should  be  just  introduced  to  the  cook^ 
for  her  to  show  it  the  fire,  and  then  send  it  up  to  table. 

To  roast  Stkipes. 

These  diflhr  little  from  woodcocks,  unless  in  size ;  they  are 
to  be  dressed  in  the  same  way,  but  require  about  &ve  minutes 
less  time  to  roast  them. 

To  roast  Quails. 

These  birds  keep  good  several  days.  Roast  them  without 
drawing,  and  serve  on  toast.  Butter  only  should  be  eaten  with 
them,  as  gravy  takes  off  firom  the  fine  flavour.  The  thigh  and 
back  are  esteemed  the  most. 


)aa  90MBST1C  CQOKUIT. 

7b  roast  Ri^wtd  lUant. 
These  are  puticukrly  foftnd  in  linodlnsfail^  md  the  i^  oF 
Ely,  and  are  very  delicate  birds.    They  must  be  trtused   like 
the  woodcbek,  bat  ncA  dressed  wkh  Ihe  guts.     When  done, 
serVe  liiem  Up  widi  gravy  fltnd  bread  sauce,  and  gamiali  the 
didh  urith  erisp  cnudbs  <>f  bread. 

T«  tfreat  Phfotts. 

Itoaft  the  green  ones  in  the  same  way  as  directed  for  quails^ 
ivithout  drawing ;  and  serve  on  a  toast.  Grey  plovers  may  be 
either  roasted,  or  stewed  with  gravy,  herbs,  and  spice. 

Pidvers'  eggs  are  a  nice  and  fashionable  dish.  Boil  them  ten 
minutes,  and  serve  either  hot  or  cold  on  a  napkin* 

Oftolana. 

These  delicate  birds,  though  much  smaller  than  Ae  lark, 
form  one  of  the  richest  and  most  favourite  repasts  of  luxurious 
epicures.     It  might  easily  be  shut  up  in  the  tgg  of  a  common 
fowl,  and  dt*e8sed  either  with  water  or  amid  the  ashes ;  but  it  ia 
generally  referred  to  the  spit,  as  a  roast  of  die  highest  estnna« 
tion  in  every  part  of  Europe.     Hiey  are  roasted  at  Paris,  as 
well  as  Italy,  in  the  same  manner  as  quails ;  being  spitted  side 
by  side,  each  wrapped  in  a  vine  leaf,  with  a  thin  slice  of  (he 
£it  of  bacon  on  the  breast,  and  basted  with  a  litde  melted 
bacon.     They  are  served  up  widi  a  garnish  of  fried  crumbs  of 
breads  and  the  juice  of  a  Seville  orange.    Ortolans  thus  oon« 
stitute  an  extremely  delicibus  viand,  so  highly  relished  by  many 
persons  as  to  be  thought  the  most  exquisite  of  all  species  of 
game.      Certainly,  wheti  ihe  birds  are  young,  and  skilfully 
dressed,  the  flesh  is  wonderfully  light  and  lander ;  it  is  adtnit- 
(ed,  however,  to  have  morn  of  delicacy  than  of  flavour,  but  thai 
it  is  yet  too  luscious  for  much  to  be  eaten*    Tew  penDns;,  what 
these  birds  are  full  fed,  wish  to  eat  more  than  two  of  them. 
They  are  seldom  to  be  had  in  LondMi  at  a  lower  price  than  half 
a  guinea  each. 


end  Pea  FwdL 
Theseeat  much  like  pheasants^  and  are  dmssed  in  the  same 
way. 


POULTRY  ANI>  OAlCS«  tSi 

mie  fiAt  points  of  coMid^fatioh  «te,  fl6^  #14  ii  Ae  luif 6  F 
aiMi  'hinr  l«ng  hai  it  ben  kiB«d1  Wli«d  ifcKHig,  it  to^Mf  of 
dttgc  Mtiun,  and  mrjr  iK>«risbiMg;  wken  old,  Uae  c«titMi3r  te 
fl^nary  napeot  Taaacfelftiinliie  i^/^kantinie  the  first  JAm 
the  fore-ifeot;  yom  ^U  indn^aiAl  kiMih,  tfik  ia  a  leV€t«t» 
wiuflh  disapfeara  as  it  gnyirs  Mtrr :  Aefi  'exaniitie  tte  Mrs ;  if 
they  tear  easily,  it  will  eat  tender ;  if  they  -are  tough,  so  irfll 
be  the  bare,  which  we  advise  you  to  make  into  soup,  or  stew ; 
o  T  jug  it. 

if  ^Moperly  talieii  oare  c^,  batfas  will  keep  a  giNeat  tine;  and 

efen  wfaeo  the  odok  jfatKiiea  them  past 'eating,  may  he  in  the 

Ittgliett  fieefection ;  MMch  if  eaten  "M^heii  ftesh-kilM  they  «m 

HOC    As  cfoej^  met  aauiAy  piiniched  hi  the  ield,  %he  coMc  <c«i« 

not  prevent  this ;  but  the  hare  keeps  longer,  and  eats  inudi 

bettflT,  if  not  ripened  Sbt  four  or  five  days,  or  aooording  to  the 


If  pameliad,  as  se<Hi  as  the  hare  eomes  In,  it  shocdd  lie 
wiped  quite  dry,  the  he«t  and  liver  taken  out,  and  the  fiver 
scalded  to  keep  for  the  stuffing.  Rep^t  this  wiping  every  day ; 
mix  pepper  and  ginger,  vndTub  on  the  inside,  and  put  a  large 
ftiece  of  ohatooid  into  it.  If  Ihe  spioe  is  applied  eai4y,  it  will 
prevBiit  ifcat  ^musty  tatfte^  wMdi  long  keepk^  in  the  damp 
ocoasiam,  and  mbkh  dm>  affscu  the  ^tufBng. 

An  4M  have  ahouM  be  k-ept  as  long  as  possible,  if  to  be 
raiaiML    Jtinattalao  he  well  soaked. 

7%  roMt  Bare. 

Aftar  It  is  tinned,  let  it  be  extremely  well  waslied,  and 
Ihen  soaked  an  hour  or  two  in'  water ;  and  if  old,  lard  it ;  which 
will  make  it  tender,  as  also  will  letting  it  lie  in  vinegar.  If, 
however,  it  is  put  into  vinegar,  it  should  l)e  exceedingly  well 
Washed  in  water  afterwards.  For  stuffing  use  the  liver,  an 
aoehovy,  eome  fat  bacon,  a  litde  suet,  herb^,  pepper,  salt, 
nutmeg,  a'lfttle  onion,  crumbs  of  bread,  and  an  egg  to  bind  it 
sfi.  Pm  ^is  stuffing  into  the  belly,  and  then  sew  it  up.  iSome 
erder  k  to  be  well  basted  with  milk>  till  half  done,  and  after- 
Wards  witii  butter ;  others  recommend  small  beer  for  basdng ; 
bvt  we  beSeve  dripping  is  better  than  any  ttui^. 


Ih22  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

If  the  blood  has  settled  m  the  neck,  soaking  the  part  in 
wann  wifter,  atid  potting  it  to  the  fire  ii^mi,  will  remote  it ; 
especially  if  you  also  nick  the  skin  here  and  there  with  a  small 
knife  to  let  it  out  The  hare  should  be  kept  at  a  distance  from 
the  fire  at  first.  Serve  with  a  fine  fix)th,  rich  gravy*  mdted 
butter,  and  currant  jelly  sauce;  the  gravy  in  the  dish. 

The  ears  must  be  nicely  cleaned  and  singed.  They  are 
reckoned  a  dainty. 

Mock  Sore, 

Cut  out  the  fillety  that  is,  the  inside  lean  of  a  sirloin  of 
beef;  leaving  the  fat,  to  roast  with  the  jmnt.  Prepare  some 
nice  stuffing,  as  directed  for  a  hare.  Put  this  on  the  beef,  and 
roQ  it  up  with  the  tape,  put  a  skewer  through  it,  and  tie  that 
on  a  spit. 

If  the  beef  is  of  a  prime  quality,  has  .been  kept  tiU 
thoroughly  tender,  and  yon  serve  with  it  the,  accompaniments 
that  usually  attend  roast  hare,  the  most  fastidious  palate  will 
have  no  reason  to  regret  that  the  game  season  is  over. 

7b  juf^  Hare. 

Let  the  hare  hang  a  few  days ;  and,  when  skinned,  do  not 
wash  it,  but  wipe  where  necessary  with  a  dean  cloth.  Cut  it 
into  pieces,  season  it  high,  and  put  it  in  a  stone  jar,  or  a  jug, 
with  half  a  pound  of  ham,  or  fine  bacon,  &t  and  lean  together, 
aiz  shalots,  two  onions,  and  some  thyme^  parsley,  savory, 
marjoram,  lemon  peel,  mace»  cloves^  and  nutmeg.  Let  the 
whole  of  the  meat  be  stewed  with  these  well-mixed  ingredients, 
pour  over  it  half  a  pint  of  red  wine,  squeeae  in  the  juice  of 
a  Seville  orange,  stop  the  vessel  close  down  with  a  bladder  or 
leather,  and  brown  paper,  and  carefully  place  it  in  a  pot  of  boil« 
ing  water,  deep  enough  to  dress  the  meat,  but  not  so  high  as 
for  any  of  the  water  to  boil  into  it.  In  this  situation  the  jar 
or  jug  is  to  remain  three  or  four  hours,  the  water  being  kept 
<m  the  boil  all  that  time,  and  more  added  as  it  boils  away.  Then, 
taking  out  the  hare,  strain  the  liquor,  skim  off  the  €bX,  a^ 
thicken  it  up  for  sauce  with  a  little  butter  and  flour.  If,  in  the 
mean  time,  the  hare  should  at  all  cool,  put  it  again  into  the 
jug,  with  the  thickened  gravy,  and  set  it  in  the  pot  of  boilii^ 
water  tDl  quite  hot,  but  by  no  means  suffer  it  to  boil.    Serve  it 


I 


I 


I 


i 


rOCLTET  AND  OAJtB.  288 


vp  «8  hot  as  poaiibie,  gamnhed  with  alioes  of  lemon  and  cm^ 
lant  jellj.  The  krger  pieces  of  hire  are  aometiince  larded 
with  booon.  It  ia  obTioua  that  the  name  of  jogged  hare  ia 
doiFod  from  its  being  dioa  dressed  in  a  jug  or  pitcher. 

To  jug  Hare  miotker  wmf. 

A  madi  easier^  quicker^  and  more  certain  way  of  pro^ 
ceeding;  than  the  foregoing,  ia  the  following:  Prepare  tlie 
hare  the  aame  aa  for  jugging,  put  it  into  a  stew-pan,  with  a  few 
sweet  hevfos,  half  a  dosen  cloves,  the  same  of  allspice  and 
Unck  pepper,  two  large  omonay  and  a  roll  of  lemon  peel : 
cover  it  with  water;  when  it  boUs,  scum  it  dean,  and  let  it 
simmer  gently  till  tender,  (about  two  hours,)  then  take  it  up 
with  a  aMoe,  set  it  by  the  fire  to  keep  hot  whfle  you  thicken  the 
gravy  ;  take  three  ounces  of  butter,  and  some  flour,  rub  to- 
gether, put  in  the  gravy,  stir  it  well,  and  let  it  boil  about  ten 
minutes,  strain  it  through  a  sieve,  over  the  hare,  and  it  ia 
ready. 

Hodge-Podged  Hare. 
This  name,  which  generally  signifies,  in  culinary  language, 
a  sort  of  jumble  or  confusion  of  ingredients,  is  a  corruption  of 
the  old  compound  word  hotch-potch.  A  hodge-podged  hare 
is  dressed  in  a  jar  or  jug  exactly  after  the  manner  of  jugging: 
only  that  it  is  cut  into  small  pieces,  less  spiced,  and  has  neither 
ham,  baoon,  nor  wine;  but,  instead  of  these  articles,  a  lettuce, 
cucumbers,  turnips,  and  celery.  It  is  chiefly  calculated  for 
dressing  a  very  old  hare ;  which  is  usually  suffered  to  remain 
five  hours'surrounded  bjr  the  boiling  water. 

To  hash  Hare. 

Cut  up  the  hare  into  pieces,  fit  to  help  at  table,  and  divide 
the  joints  of  the  legs  and  shoulders,  and  set  them  by  ready. 
Put  the  trimmings  and  gravy  you  have  left,  with  half  a  pint 
of  water,  (there  should  be  a  pint  of  liquor,)  and  a  table-apoonf 
ful  of  currant  jelly,  into  a  dean  stew-pan,  and  let  it  boil 
gently  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  then  strain  it  through  a  sieve 
into  a  basin,  and  pour  it  back  into  the  stew-pan ;  now  flour 
the  hare,  put  it  into  the  gravy,  and  let  it  simmer  very  gently 
mi  the  hare  is  warm,  (about  twenty  minutes,)  cut  the  stuffing 


into  Men,  bsiA  pot  it  iift»  tlie  bash  to  get  warn,  aB<mt  timi 
ttilmites  before  you  sei^e  it;  cttvide  the  bead,  and  laj  oo*  hatf 
on  ea^  aida  die  diA. 

To  (rot/  Hare, 

The  jiavour  of  broiled  bare  is  particalarly  fine ;  tbe  lego 
must  be  seasoned  first,  and  broiled  in  the  usual  manner.  Rub 
with  cold  butter,  and  serve  very  hot  The  other  parts^  wanned 
#ith  gravy,  and  a  little  stuffing,  itiay  be  served  separately. 

To  pot  Hare. 
For  this  purpose  an  old  one  does  well.  After  seasoning  it, 
bake  it  with  butter.  When  cold,  take  the  mea,!  firom  the  boHOii, 
and  beat  it  in  a  mortar.  If  not  high  enough,  add  salt,  mace^ 
|)epper,  and  a  piece  of  the  finest  fresh  butter  melted  in  a  spoon- 
ful or  two  of  the  gravy  that  came  from  the  hare.  ^  When  well 
mixed,  put  it  into  small  pots,  and  cover  with  butter.  The  leg« 
and  back  should  be  baked  at  the  bottom  of  the  jar,  to  keep 
them  moist,  and  the  bones  be  put  over  them. 

To  roast  a  Leveret, 

In  general^  a  leveret,  or  young  hate,  iaa(y  be  dressed  Uko 
«  hare  that  is  full  grown.  Having  stuffied  it  iu  the  usual  man- 
ner, with  the  liver  chopped  up,  spit  it,  and  put  it  down  |o  Iho 
fire;  and  while  it  is  roastii^,  alternately  dredge  it  with  fiour, 
and  baste  it  well  with  warm  milk,  till  it  be  three  parts  done, 
and  there  is  a  good  crust  formed:  then  finidi  it  with  two  or 
three  ounces  of  fresh  butter  put  into  the  dripping-pan ;  and 
serve  it  up,  with  gravy  and  melted  butter  over,  and  melted 
currant  jelly  in  a  sauce  Hureen. 

To  roati  Ratbit. 

If  youf  fire  is  dear  and  sharp,  thirty  minutes  wiH  roast  4 
yo«mf»  and  forty  a  fiill  grown  rabbit  When  you  lay  it  down, 
tiasfte  it  with  butter,  and  dredge  it  lightly  and  oarafuliy  witih 
flow,  Aat  yon  may  have  it  frothy,  and  of  a  fine  light  brown. 
While  tbe  rabbit  is  toasting,  boil  its  liver  witb  sqbm  parsley ; 
wlwn  tander,  diop  them  together,  and  put  half  the  mixture 
into  aome  melted  butter,  reserving  the  other  half  fiw  gaznial^ 


I 


POVhVKY  AHI>  OAMt.  225 

ttvided  into  Httle  Mllockt.    Cut  oflP^  the  hc^l  and  lay  half  on 
ocfa  side  of  the  diah«    Serve  with  the  aame  sauce  aa  for  bare. 

A  large,  well  grown,  (bat  yoong)  warren  rabbit,  kept  some' 
lone  after  it  hn  been  lulled^*  and  rohsted  with  a  stuffing  in  ita 
belly,  eata  very  like  a  hare,  to  thenature  of  which  it  approadiea. 

It  18  nice  nonrishing  food  when  young,  but  hard  and  unwhole- 

tome  when  old. 

»  *  • 

TohiU  Rkbhit. 

Truss  your  rabbits  short,  lay  them  in  a  basin  of  warm 
water  for  ten  minutes;  then  put  them  into  plenty  of  water, 
and  boil  them  about  half  an  hour ;  if  large  ones,\hree  quarters; 
it  very  otd,  an  hour :  smother  them  with  plenty  of  white  onion 
sauce;  mince  the  liver,  arid  lay  it  round  the  dish,  or  make 
liver  sauce,  and  send  it  up  in  a  boat. 

Itjwill  save  much  trouble  to  the  carver,  if  the  rabbits  be 
cut  up  in  the  kitchen,  into  pieces  fit  to  help  at  table,  and  the 
head  divided^  and  one  half  laid  at  each  end.  Lay  slices  of 
lemon,  and  the  liVer  chopped  very  finely,  on  the  sides  of  the 
dish. 

To  fry  Rabbit. 

Cut  the  rabbit  up,  and  flour  it  well ;  put  a  little  clean  drip- 
pTng  into  the  frying-pan;  when  hot,  put  in  the  rabbit,  and  fry 
it  of  a  nice  brown  ;  put  about  an  ounce  of  butter  on  a  dish,  a 
little  chopped  sbalot,  and  a  little  catsup ;  then  the  rabbit. 

To  fricassee  Rabbits,  white. 

'  To  fricassee  rabbits  white,  you  must  cut  them  up  as  for 
eating,  and  then  put  them  into  a  stew-pan,  with  a  pint  of  veal 
gravy,  a  little  beaten  mace,  a  slice  of  lemon,  an  anchovy,  a 
tea-spoonful  of  lemon  pickle,  a  little  Cayenne  pepper,  and 
salt.  Let  them  stew  over  a  gentle  fire  till  they  *are  enough; 
then  take  them  out»  and  lay  them  in  your  dish.  Thicken  the 
gravy  with  butter  and  flour;  then  strain  it,  and  add  the  yolka 
of  two  eggs,  mixed  with  a  gill  of  thick  cream^  and  a  little 
grated  nutmeg.  Stir  these  well  together,  and  when  it  begina 
to  simmer,  poor  it  quite  hot  over  your  rabbita,  and  serve  them 
to  table. 

8  2  G 


^26  DOMRSTIC  COOKBRY. 

To  fricassee  RaibbiUp  brown. 

.  Cut  them  into  pieces  as  before  directed,  and  fry  them  io 
batter  of  a  light  brown.  Then  put  them  into  a  stew-pan,  with 
a  pint  of  water,  a  slice  of  lemon,  an  anchovy,  a  large  spoon- 
ful of  browning,  the  same  of  catsup,  a  tea-spoonful  of  leoMHi 
pickle,  and  a  little  Cayenne  pepper  and  salt.  Stew  them  over 
a  slow  fire  till  they  are  enough ;  then  thicken  your  gravy  with 
butter  and  flour,  and  strain  it.  Dish  up  your  rabbits,  and 
pour  the  gravy  over  them.     Garnish  with  sliced  lemon. 

To  pot  Rabbits. 

Cut  up  two  or  three  young,  but  full  grown  ones,  and  take 
the  leg-bones  off  at  the  thigh ;  pack  them  as  closely  as  possible 
in  a  small  pan,  after  seasoning  them  with  pepper,  maoe, 
cayenne,  salt,  and  allspice,  all  in  very  fine  powder.  Make  the 
top  as  smooth  as  you  can.  Keep  out  the  heads  and  the  car- 
cases, but  take  off  the  meat  about  the  neck.  Pat  a  good  deal 
of  butter,  and  bake  the  whole  gently.  Keep  it  two  days  in 
the  pan ;  then  shift  it  into  small  pots,  adding  batter.  The 
livers  also  should  be  added,  as  they  eat  well. 

To  blanch  Rabbit,  Fowls,  Sfc. 

.  This  is  to  set  it  on  the  fire  in  a  small  quantity  of  cold  water, 
and  let  it  boil :  as  soon  as  it  boils,  it  b  to  be  taken  out,  and  put 
into  cold  water  for  a  few  minutes. 


BROTHS,  SOUPS,  GRAVIES,  AND  SAUCES. 

General  Observations  and  Directions* 

ri/HE  cook  must  pay  continual  attention  to  the  condition  of 
her  stew-pans  and  soup-kettles,  &c.  which  should  be  <>T^^■t^^t^ed 
every  time  they  are  used.  Their  covers  also  must  be  kept  per- 
fectly clean,  and  well  tinned;  and  the  stew-pans  not  only  on  the 
inside,  but  about  a  couple  of  inches  on  the  outside :  many  mis- 
chiefs arise  firom  their  getting  out  of  repair ;  and  if  not  kept 


BROTHS,  SOUPS,  ORAYIB8,  AND  SAUCES.  227 

nieely  tinned,  all  your  good  work  will  be  in  vain ;  the  broths 
azul  soups  will  look  green  and  dirty,  taste  bitter  and  poisonous, 
and  will  be  spoiled  both  for  the  eye  and  palate. 

Xak.e  care  to  be  properly  provided  with  sieves  and  tammts 
clodiSy    spoons,  and  ladles :  make  it  a  rule,  without  an  except 
tion^  never  to  use  them  till  they  are  well  cleaned  and  thorough- 
ly dried,  nor  any  stew-pans,  &c.  without  first  washing  them 
oat  with  boiling  water,  and  rubbing  them  well  with  a  dry 
doth  and  a  little  bran,  to  dean  them  from  grease,  sand,  &c* 
or  any  bad  smell  they  may  have  got  since  they  were  last  used. 
Never  put  by  any  soup,  gravy,  &c.  in  a  metal  utensil ;  in 
which »  never  keep  any  thing  longer  than  is  absolutely  neces- 
sary for  the  purposes  of  cookery ;  the  acid,  vegetables,  and  (at, 
Arc  employed  in  making  them,  are  capable  of  dissolving  them ; 
therefore  stone  or  earthen  vessels  should  be  used  for  this 
parpose. 

Stew-pans  and  sauce-pans  should  be  always  bright  on  the 
npper  rim,  where  the  fire  does  not  bum  them :  but  to  scour 
thetn  all  over,  is  not  only  giving  the  cook  needless  trouble,  but 
wearing  out  the  vessels. 

Lean  juicy  beef,  mutton,  or  veal,  form  the  basis  of  broth : 
procure  those  pieces  which  afford  the  most  and  the  richest 
succulence,  and  as  fresh  killed  as  possible. 

In  general,  it  has  been  considered  the  best  economy  to  use 
the  cheapest  and  most  inferior  meats  for  soup,  &c.  and  to  boil 
it  down  till  it  is  entirely  destroyed,  and  hardly  worth  putting 
into  the  hog-tub.  This  is  a  false  frugality.  Buy  good  pieces  of 
meat,  and  only  stew  them  till  they  are  done  enough  to  be  eaten. 
Stale  meat  will  make  your  broth  grouty  and  bad  tasted,  and 
fat  meat  is  only  wasted.  This  only  applies  to  those  broths 
which  are  required  to  be  perfectly  clear.  Immediately  follow*- 
ing  these  observations,  will  be  given  Dr.  Kitchiner'a  receipt  to 
make  a  cheap  and  highly  nutritious  barley  broth,  by  which  it 
wil\  appear  that  fat  and  clarified  drippings  may  be  so  combined 
with  vegetable  mucilage,  as  to  afford,  at  the  small  cost  of  one 
penny  per  quart,  a  nourishing  and  palatable  soup,  fully 
adequate  to  satisfy  appetite,  and  support  strength :  this  will 
open  a  new  source  to  thos^  benevolent  housekeepers,  who  are 
disposed  to  relieve  'IHe  poor,  ^nd '  will  show  the  industrious 
classes  htow  much  tnejr  have  it  'in  their  power  to  assist  them* 


>- 


f2B  .     DOMESTIC  CQOKERY. 

^IveSy  and  rescue  .tfiem  from  b^n^  objepts  of  charity  €|epeiul- 
ent  on  the  precarious  boupty  of  others,  by  teaching  them  how 
they  may  obtain  a  cheap,  abundant,  salubrious,  and  agreeable 
aliment  for  themselves  and  families. 

This  soup  has  the  advantage  of  being  very  easily  and  very 
soon  roade^  with  no  more  fuel  than  is  necessary  to  warm  a 
room :  those  who  have  not  tasted  it,  cannot  imagine  what  a 
salubrious,  savoury,  and  satisfying  meal  is  produced  by  the 
Judicious  combination  of  cheap  homely  ingrec^ients. 

The  art  of  composing  a  ridi  spup  is  so  to  proportion  th^ 
/several  ingredients  one  ta  another,  that  no  particular  taste  be 
stronger  than  thi^  rest;  but  to  produce  such  a  fine  harmonious 
relish,  that  the  whole  is  delightful,  this  requires  that  judicious 
combination  of  the  materials  which  constitutes  the  chef-d'auvr^ 
4>f  ci^linafy  science. 

In  the  first  place,  take  care  that  the  roots  and  herbs  be 
perfectly  well  cleaned;  proportion  the  water  to  the  quantity 
of  meat,  and  othe^  ingredients,  generally  a  pound  of  meat  tp 
H  quai't  of  water,  for  soups;  and  double  that  quantity  for 
gravies.  If  they  stew  gently,  little  more  water  need  be  put 
in'  at  first,  than  is  expected  at  the  end ;  for  when  the  pot  is 
covered  quite  close,  and  the  fire  gentle,  very  little  is  wasted. 

Gentle  stewing  is  incomparably  the  best, — the  meat  is  mor^ 
tender,  and  the  soup  better  flavoured. 

It  is  of  the  first  importance,  that  the  cover  of  a  soup  ket- 
tle should  fit  very  close,  or  the  broth  will  evaporate  before  you 
are  aware  of  it  The  most  essential  parts  are  soon  evaporated 
J[>y  quick,  boiling,  without  any  benefit,  except  to  fiitten  the  for* 
tunate  cook  who  inhales  them. 

It  is  not  only  the  fibres  of  the  meat  which  nourish  us,  but 
jtbc  juices  they  contain;  and  these  are  not  only  extracted,  but 
exhaled,  if  it  be  boiled  fast  in  an  open  vessel :  a  succulent  soup 
can  never  be  made  but  in  a  well  closed  vessel,  which  preserves 
)he  nutritive  parts  by  preventing  their  dissipation.  This  is 
a  &ct  of  which  every  intelligent  person  will  soon  perceive  th0 
impprtance. 

Place  your  soup-pot  over  a  moderate  fire,  which  will  make 
the  water  hot,  without  causing  it  to  boil,  for  at  least  half  an 
hoiir  ;  if  the  water  boils  immediately,  it  will  not  penetrate  the 
meat,  and  cleanse  it  from  the  clotted  blood,  and  other  matters 


BBOTH8«  SPIFFS,  G|lAyiES>  AN D  SAUCES. 

>rludi  ought togooff  i^^cum;  ^hetioeail  will  be  liaidtfned aU 
pver  by  violent  heat,  will  ^hrii^k  up  as  if  it  was  acotdbtd,  and 
give  hardly  any  gravy ;  on  the  contrary^  by  keeping  the  waler 
a  certain  time  heating  without  boiling,  the  meat  swells^  becomes 
tender,  its  fibres  are  dilated,  end  it  yields  a  quantity  of  scum, 
which  .mui^t  be  taken  off  as  soon  as  it  appears. 

It  is  not  till  after  a  good  half  hoiir's  hot  infbsion,  that  we 
nay  mend  the  fire,  and  make  the  pot  boU:  still  continue  to  re* 
move  the  scum,  and  when  no  more  appears,  put  in  the  vege- 
tables^ &c.  and  a  little  salt.  These  viU  cause  more  scum  to 
rise,  which  must  be  taken  off  immediivtely ;  then  cover  the  pot 
very  closely,  and  place  it  at  a  proper  distance  ^m  th^  fire« 
where  it  wiU  boil  very  gently  fmd  equally,  and  by  tio  xi\$ans 
fast 

By  quick  and  strong  bpiling,  the  volatile  and  .finest  patta 
of  the  ingredients  are  eyapairated,  and  fly  off  with  the  steam, 
aad  the  coarser  parts  are  rend^ed  soluble ;  so  you  lose  the  good, 
and  get  the  bad. 

Soups  will  generally  take  from  three  to  six  houts. 
Prepare  your  b|rotbs  and  soups  the  evening  before  you  want 
them.  This  will  give  you  more  time  to  attend  to  the  rest  of 
your  dinner  the  next  day;  ^ud  when  the  soup  is  cold,  the  fat 
may  be  much  more  easily  and  completely  removed  from  the 
surface  of  it.  When  you  decant  it,  take  cai'e  not  to  disturb  the 
settlings  at  the  bottom  of  the  vessel,  which  .are  so  fine,  that 
they  will  escape  through  a  sieve,  or  even  through  a  tammis, 
which  is  the  best  strainer — the  soups  appear  smoother  and  finer— 
and  it  is  much  easier  cleaned  than  any  sieve..  If  you  strain  it 
while  it  is  i^t,  pass  it  through  a  dean  tammis  or  napkin  previa* 
ously  soaked  in  cold  water ;  the  coldness  of  this  will  coagu<« 
late  the  fat,  and  only  suffer  the  pure  broth  to  pass  through. 

Clear  soups  must  be  perfectly  transparent,  thickened  soups 
about  the  consistence  of  rich  cream ;  and  remember  that  thick^i 
ened  soups  require  nearly  doable  the  quantity  of  seasoning* 
The  piquance  of  spice,  &c.  is  blunted  by  the  flour  and  butter ;  so 
they  are  less  salubrious,  without  being  more  savoury,  from 
the  additional  quantity  of  spice,  &c.  that  is  smuggled  into  the 
stomach. 

To  thicken  and  give  body  to  soups  and  sauces,  there  are 
various  miiterials  used.    Clarified  butter  is  best  fin*  this  puv* 


230  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

pose ;  but  if  you  have  none  ready,  put  some  firesh  butter  into 
a  stew-pan  over  a  slow  dear  6re ;  when  it  is  melted,  add  fine 
flour  sufficient  to  make  it  the  thickness  of  paste;  stir  it  well 
together  with  a  wooden  spoon  for  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes, 
till  it  is  quite  smooth,  and  the  colour  of  a  guinea :  this  must  be 
done  very  gradually  and  patiently ;  if  you  put  it  over  too  fierce 
a  fire  to  hurry  it,  it  will  become  bitter  and  empyreumatic;  pour 
it  into  an  earthen  pan,  and  keep  it  for  use.  -  It  will  keep  good 
a  fortnight  in  summer,  and  longer  in  winter.  A  large  spoon- 
ful will  generally  be  enough  to  thicken  a  quart  of  gravy.  Be 
particularly  attentive  in  making  of  it ;  if  it  gets  any  burnt 
smell  or  taste,  it  will  spoil  every  thing  it  is  put  into.  When 
cold,  it  should  be  thick  enough  to  cut  out  with  a  knife,  like  a 
solid  paste.  It  is  a  very  essential  article  in  the  kitchen,  and  is 
the  basis  of  consistency  in  roost  made  dishes,  soups,  sauces, 
and  ragouts  :  if  the  gravies,  &c.  are  too  thin,  add  this  thicken- 
ing, more  or  less,  according  to  the  consistence  you  would  wish 
them  to  have.  It  must  be  gradually  mixed  with  the  soup,  till 
thoroughly  incorporated  with  it ;  and  it  should  have,  at  least, 
half  an  hour's  gentle  simmering  after :  if  it  is  at  all  himpy, 
pass  it  through  a  tammis  or  a  fine  sievew 

To  their  very  rich  gravies,  &c.  the  French  add  the  white 
meat  of  partridges,  pigeons,  or  fowls,  pounded  to  a  pulp, 
and  rubbed  through  a  sieve.  A  piece  of  beef,  which  has  been 
boiled  to  make  broth,  pounded  in  the  like  manner,  with  a  bit 
of  butter  and  flour,  and  gradually  incorporated  with  the  gravy 
or  soup,  will  be  found  a  satisfactory  substitute  for  these  more 
expensive  articles. 

If  soup  is  too  thin  or  too  weak,  take  off  the  cover  of  your 
soup-pot,  and  let  it  boil  till  some  of  the  watery  part  of  it  has 
evaporated  ;  or  else,  add  some  of  the  thickening  we  have  before 
mentioned ;  and  have  at  hand  some  plain  browning.  This  sim- 
ple preparation  is  much  better  than  any  of  the  compounds  bear- 
ing that  name,  as  it  colours  sauce  or.  soup,  without  much  inter- 
fering with  its  flavour,  and  is  a  much  better  way  of  colouring 
them  than  burning  the  surface  of  the  meat. 

When  soups  and  gravies  are  kept  from  day  to  day,  in  hot 
weather,  they  should  be  warmed  up  every  day,  and  put  into 
fresh  scalded  tureens,  or  pans,  and  placed  in  a  cool  cellar ;  in 
temperate  weather,  every  other  day  nay  be  enough. 


BROTHS,  9017F9,  ORAVIBB,  AMD  SAUCES.  231 

Let  your  sauces  each  display  a  decided  character;  send  up 
jour  plain  sauces  (oyster,  lobster,  &c)  as  pure  as  possible ; 
they  should  only  taste  of  the  materiak  firom  which  they  take 
their  name. 

The  imagination  of  most  cooks  is  so  incessantly  on  the 
hunt  for  a  relish,  that  they  seem  to  think  they  cannot 
make  sauce  sufficiently  savoury,  without  putting  into  it  every 
thing  that  ever  was  eaten ;  and  supposing  every  addition  must 
be  an  improvement,  they  frequently  overpower  the  natural 
flavour  of  their  plain  sauces,  by  overloading  them  with  salt 
and  spices,  &c.  But,  remember,  these  will  be  deteriorated  by 
any  addition,  save  only  just  salt  enough  to  awaken  the  palate. 

On  the  contrary,  of  compound  sauces,  the  ingredients 
should  be  so  nicely  proportioned,  that  no  one  be  predominant ; 
so  that,  firom  the  equal  union  of  the  combined  flavours,  such  a 
fine  mellow  mixture  is  produced,  whose  very  novelty  cannot 
fiul  of  being  acceptable  to  the  persevering  gauntumd,  if  it  has 
not  pretensions  to  a  permanent  place  at  his  table. 

Why  have  we  dove  and  allspice,  or  mace  and  nutmeg,  in  the 
same  sauce  1  or  marjoram,  thyme,  and  savory  1  or  onions,  leeks, 
eshalots  and  garlic  ?  One  will  very  well  supply  the  place  of  the 
other,  and  the  frugal  cook  may  save  something  considerable  by 
attending  to  this,  to  the  advantage  of  her  employers,  and  her 
own  time  and  trouble. 

Send  your  sauces  to  table  as  hot  as  possible.  Nothing 
need  be  more  unsightly,  than  the  surface  of  a  sauce  in  a  frosen 
state,  or  garnished  with  grease  on  the  top ;  the  best  way  to  get 
rid  of  this,  is  to  pass  it  through  a  tammis  or  napkin  previ« 
ously  soaked  in  cold  water,  the  coldness  of  the  napkin  will 
coagulate  the  fat^  and  only  suffer  the  pure  gravy  to  pass 
through:  if  any  particles  of  fat  remain,  take  them  off  by 
applying  filtering  paper,  as  blotting  paper  is  applied  to  ink. 

Let  your  sauces  boil  up  after  you  put  in  wine,  anchovy,  or 
thickening,  that  their  flavours  may  be  well  blended  witii  the 
other  ingredients;  and  keep  in  mind,  that  the  ckef -Venture  of 
cookery,  is  to  entertain  the  mouth  without  offending  the  sto- 
mach. The  cook*s  judgment  must  direct  her  to  lessen  or  in- 
crease either  of  the  ingredients,  according  to  the  taste  of  those 
she  works  for,  and  will  always  be  on  the  akrt  to  ascertain  what 
ass  she.fitvourite  accompaniments  desired  with  eadi  dish. 


232-  DOMBSTtC  COiOltSltTk 

<  A  clesr  jdijr  of  eow-heete  if  very  usefal  to  keep  in  the 
bpfue^  being  a|^peaCinft(nr6v«tiien't  to  iroaps  and  gravies.  TniC>^. 
flei  itnd<morel^  thicken  Maps  dttd  ftauees/  and  give  them  a  fine 
flavour.  Wash  half  an  ounce  of  each  carefully,  tb^tt  sininier' 
them ' »  few  miniites'ln  lifter;  Paid  addfthdii  with  the  liquor, 
Uf  boil  inthe'  bokcb,  &e  tilt  ttoder.  * 

W«  hope  Mft  hare  notir  put  tfae^dHAMott  cook  into  pbsse^on ' 
of  the  whole  attansoi  sOup  making;  &c.  without  muchtrou*- 
blertd  hers^lf^  orexpen^  t6^  her  eiiftployers ;  and  that  it  wiH  not* 
be  eaid,  in  ftfture,  thkt  an'  EtigltrtimiAn  oidy  knbwft  how-to  make 
soup  in' his  stomach,  by  shilling  down  a  large  quantity  of'ale, 
or  porter,  to  quench  the  thirst  occlisioned  by  the  meat  he  eats : 
J6h%  BuU  may  now  make  hts  soup  "see^nikm  artem,  and  'save 
his  principal  viscera  a  gi%at'<9eal  of  trouble; 

I  conclude  these  remai^cs  With  obkrving^  that  some  per<^ 
sons  imagine  that  sotip  tends  to  relax  the  stomach  :  so  far  from 
being  pnejadicial,  we  consider  the  moderate  use  of  such  liquid 
nourishment  to-  be  highly  sahitary.  Does  not  our  food  and 
drink^'  even  though  c6td,  become  in  a  few 'minutes  a  kind  oF 
w«in  soup  in  the  stomach?  and,  therefore,  soup,  if  not  eaten 
t^O  hot,'  or' in  t6o  great  a  quantity,  and  of  proper  quality,  is 
attended'withgrdftt  advantages/ espieci^ly  to  those  who  drink* 
but  Utde. 

Warm  fluids,  in  the  form  of  soup,  unite  with  oui' juices  much 
sooner^  imd- better,  thttn  those  thaf  are  c6ld  and  raw ;  on  this 
account '  re^tdratTve  sdup  is  the  best  food  for  those  who  are ' 
enfeebled  by  disease  br  dissipation,  and  for  old  people,  whose 
teeth  and  'digestive  organs  are  impaired. 

After  catching  cold,  in  nervous  headachs^  colics^  indiges- 
tions, and'different  kinds  of  cramps  and  spksms  in  the  stomach, 
warm  broth  is  of  excellent  service. ' 

VROTHS  AKD  SCHT'PS. 

Dr»  Kitchinefs  Receipt  to  make  Barley  Bf^th, 

.  Put  four  ounces  of  Scotch  barley,  (previously  wash.ed  in 
Qpld  water)  and- four  ounces  of  sliced  onions,  into  five  quarto 
of  water ;  boil  gently  for  one  hour,  and  pour  it  into  a  pan ; 
then  put  into  the  sauce-pan  from  one  to  two  ounces  of  dean 
beef  or  mutton  drippings,  clarified  or  melted  suet ;  or  two  or 


BROTHS,  SOUPS,  aRAYIJBS,  AND  SAUCB8.  939 


I 


tjate  mametM  <£  Ux  hwum  tnuMMd;  when  melltd,  iAt  in|4  it 
fiiBroiiDoesof  oatpiMMlj  r«b  these  together  CiU  yMmekea  paste^ 
(if  this  be  properly  uMiieged,  the  wh^le^of  the.  fat  «riUtM)inbiiMi 
with  the  .barley  broth,  and  not  a  particle  iqppaar  60  the  Inr^ 
6oe  to  ofoid  the  iqest  delicate  stmach,)  now  add  the  btfrley 
broth,  at  first  a  spoonful  at  a  time,  then  the  rest  by  d^grees^ 
stirring  it  well  together  tf  U  it  faoilk  .To  season  it,  ■  put  a  dram 
of  finely  pounded  celery,  or  enesascedi  (er  half «  dram  of  eaeh,) 
and  a  quarter  of  a  Aram  ef  finely  pounded  cayenne,  or  a>  dnna 
and  a  half  of  groand  black  pepper,  or  allspice,  into  a  tea*cupy 
and  mix  it  op  with  a  little  of  the  soup,  and  then  pour  it  into 
the  vest,  stir  it  thoroughly  together,  let  it  simmer  gently  a 
quarter  of  an  hour  longer,  season  it  with  salt,  and  it  is  ready; 

The  flavour  may  be  vari^  by  doubling  the  portion  of 
onions,  or  adding  a  djove  ol  gariic  or  eschalot,  and  leaving  oat 
the  celery  seed. 

It  will  be  much  improved,  if,  instosd  of  water,,  it  be  mad* 
with  the  liquor  ineat  has  been  boiled  in:  at  tripe,  eow«heel,an4 
cook  shops,  this  may  be  had  for  little  or  nothing. 

If  the  generally  received  opinion  be  true,  that,  animal  and 
v<q;etable  foods  afford  nourtahment  in  ptoportion  to  the  quan- 
tity of  oi\,  jelly,  and  mucilage,  that  can  be  extracted  finNntheoi, 
this  soup  has  strong  daims  to  the  attention  of  rational  eoono* 
mists. 

Btrf  Bvtk. 

YTash  a  leg  or  a  shin  of  beef  very  dean,  cnek  the  bone,  in 
two  or  three  places,  (this  yon  should  desire  the  butoher  to  do 
for  you,)  add  thereto  any  trimmings  .yo«i  have  of  meat,  game, 
or  poultry,  (l«f,  heads,  necks,  gisaards,  feet,  drc.)  and  doveir 
them  with  cold  water;  watch  and  stir  it  up  will  firom  the 
bottom,  and  the  moment  it  b^ns  to  simmer,  skim  it  care«^ 
fnlly ;  your  beoth  must  be  perfectly  dear  and  limpid ;  then 
add  some  cold  water,  to  make  the  remaining  scum  riie,  and' 
skim  it  again;  when  the  scum  has  done  rising,  and  the 
snrfiice  of  the  broth  is  quite  dmr,  put  in  one  moderate* 
[  aiaed  carrot,  a  head  of  celery,  two  turnips,  and  two  onions. 

It  should  not  have-any  taste  of  sweet  herbs,  spice,  or  garlic, 
&c  Either  of  these  flavours  can  easily  be  added  immediately 
after,  if  desired.'  -^Cover  it  dose,  set  it  by  the  side  of  the  tpte^ 

f.  9  «H 


2S4  DOMESTIC  COOKBAT. 

and  kt  it  simmer  very  gently  (so  as  not  to  waste  the  brodi)  for 
four  or  five  hours,  or  more,  according  to  the  weight  of  the 
neat :  straift  it  dmmgh  a  sieve  into  a  dean  and  dry  stone  pan^ 
«id  set  it  in  the  cx>ldest  place  you  have. 

This  is  the  foundation  for  all  sorts  of  soups  and  sauces, 
brown  or  white. 

Stew  no  longer  than  the  meat  is  thoroughly  done  to  eat, 
and  you  will  obtain  excellent  brodi/ without  depriving  the 
meat  of  its  nutritious  succnlenpe:  to  boil  it  to  ri^s,  as  is  the 
common  practice,  will  not  enrich  your  broths,  but  make  them 
thick  and  grouty. 

The  meat,  when  gently  stewed  for  only  four  or  five  hours 
till  it  is  just  tender,  remains  abundantly  sapid  and  nourishing, 
and  will  afford  a  relishing  and  wholesome  meal  for  half  a  dozen 
people ;  or  when  yon  have  strained  off  the  broth,  cover  the 
meat  again  with  water,  and  let  it  go  on  boiling  for  four  hours 
longer,  and  make  what  smne  cooks  call  second  iiock:  it  will 
produce  some  very  good  glaze,  or  portaUe  soup* 

* 

Veal  Broth. 

Stew  a  knuckle  of  veal  in  about  a  gallon  of  water,  put  in 
two  ounces  of  rice  or  vermicelli,  a  little  salt,  and  a  blade  of 
mace*  When  the  meat  is  thoroughly  boiled,  and  the  liqufH* 
fieduced  to  about  one  half,  it  will  be  very  good,  and  fit  for  use. 

Mutton  Broth* 

Take  two  pounds  of  scrag  of  mutton ;  to  take  the  blood  out, 
'  put  it  into  a  stew-pan,  and  cover  it  with  cold  water;  when  the 
water  becomes  milk  warm,  pour  it  off,  skim  it  well,  then  put 
it  in  again,  with  four  or  five  pints  of  water,  a  te^-spoonflil 
oi  salt,  a  taUe-spoonful  of  best  grits,  and  an  onion ;  set  it  on 
%  slow  fire,  and  whep  you  have  taken  all  the  scum  off,  put  in 
two  ix  three  turnips,  let  it  simmer  very  slowly  for  two  hours, 
and  strain  it  through  a  clean  sieve. 

You  may  thicken  it,  by  boiling  widi  it  a  little  oatmeal, 
Dce,  Scotch,,  or  pearl  barley. 

Scotch  Mutton  Broth*f 

Soak  a  nedc  of  mutton  in  water  Ibr  an  hour ;  out  dff  die 
f^ng,  and  put  it  into  a  steWf  pot  with  two  quarts  of  water. 


BROTHS,  SOUPS,  ORAVIBS,  AND  SAUCES.  386 

As  soon  as  it  boils,  skim  it  well,  and  then  simmer  it  an  hour 
tnd  a  half;  then  take  the  best  end  of  the  mutton,  cut  it  into 
pieoes,  (two  bones  in  each,)  take  some  of  the  fat  oil,  and  pot  as 
many  as  you  think  proper :  skim  the  moment  the  fresh  meat 
boils  up,  and  every  quarter  6£  an  hour  afterwards.  Have 
ready  four  or  five  carrots,  the  same  number  of  turnips,  and 
duee  onions,  all  cut,  but  not  small;  and  put  them  in  soon 
enoQf  h  to  get  quite  tender :  add  four  large  spoonfuls  of  Scotch 
barley,  first  wetted  with  cold  water.  The  meat  should  stew 
three  hours.  Salt  to  taste,  and  serve  all  together.  Twenty 
minutes  before  serving,  put  in  some  chopped  parsley.  It  is  an 
excdlent  winter  dish. 

Scotch  Barley  Broth* 

Wash  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  Scotch  barley  in  a  little 
eold  water,  put  it  in  a  soup  pot,  with  a  shin  or  leg  of  beef,  or 
a  knuckle  of  veal  of  about  ten  pounds  weight,  sawed  into  four 
pieces,  (tell  the  butcher  to  do  this  for  you,)  cover  it  well  with 
cold  water,  set  it  on  the  fire;  when  it  boils,  skim  it  veiy 
clean>  and  put  in  two  onions  of  about  three  ounces  weight 
each,  set  it  by  the  side  of  the  fire  to  simuier  very  gently  about 
two  hours ;  then  skim  all  the  fat  clean  ofi^,  and  put  in  two  heads 
of  celery,  and  a  large  turnip  cut  into  small  squares;  season  it 
with  salt,  and  let  it  boil  an  hour  and  a  half  longer,  and  it  is 
ready:  takeout  the  meat  (carefully  with  a  slice,  and  cover  it 
up,  and  set  it  by  the  fire  to  keep  warm :)  and  scum  the  broth 
well  before  you  put  it  in  the  tureen. 

If  it  is-  made  the  evening  before  the  soup  is  wanted,  and 
suffered  tp  stand  till  it  is  cold,  much  fat  may  be  removed  from 
the  surface  of  the  soup,  which  is,  when  clarified,  used  for  all 
the  purposes  that  drippings  are  applied  to. 

Chicken  Broth.  ^ 

Skin  a  large  old  fowl,  cut  off  the  fiit,  break  the  fowl  to 
pieces,  and  put  it  into  two  quarts  of  water,  with  a  good  crust 
of.  bread,  and  a  blade  of  mace.  Let  it  boil  gently  five  or  six 
hours:  then  pour  off  all  the  liquor,  put  a  quart  more  boiling 
water  to  it,  and  cover  it  close;  let  it  boil  softly  till  it  is  good, 
then  strain  it  off,  and  season  it  with  a  little  salt.  In  the  mean- 
time boil  a  chieken,  and  save  the  liquor ;  and  when  the  flesh  is 


286  DOMESTIC  COOKBRT. 

eat,  take  the  bones,  break  them,  and  put  them  in  the  liquor 
in  which  you  boiled  the  chicken,  with  a  blade  of  mace,  and  a 
cruH  of  bread.  When  the  juice  of  the  bones  is  extracted^, 
strain  it  off,  mix  it  with  the  other  liquoc,  and  send  it  ta  tahlej 

Spring  Br0th, 

Take  a  crust  of  breads  and  about  a  quarter  of  a  pound  a^ 
&esh  butter ;  put  them  into  a  soup-pot,  or  stew*pan,  with  » 
good  quantity  ef  herbs,  a&  beat,  sorrel,  dienri!,  lettuce,  leeks, 
and  piirslain,  all  washed  dean,  and  coarsely  dbopped.  Put  ta 
them  a  quart  of  waterr-aud  let  them  stew  till  it  is  reduced  to 
one  half,  when  it  will  be  fit  for  use.  This  is  an  excellent  puri* 
fier  of  the  blood. 

Knuckle  cf  Fm/,  or  Shin  or  Leg  of  Buf,  Soup. 

A  knuckle  of  veal,  of  six  pounds  weight,  will  make  a 
Isige  tureen  of  excellent  soup,  and  is  thus  easily  prepared  :• 
Cut  half  a  pound  of  bacon  into  slices  about  half  an  inch  thick,, 
lay  it  at  the  bottom  of  a  soup  kettle,  or  de^  stew-pan,  and  on 
this  place  the  knuckle  of  veal,  having  first  chopped  the  bone  in 
two  or  three  places ;  furnish  it  with  two  carrots,,  two  turnips,  a^ 
head  of  celery,  two  large  onions,  with  two  or  three  doves 
stuck  in  one  of  them,  adoxen  eoms  of  black,  and  the  same>of 
Jamaica  pepper,  and  a  good  bundle  of  lemon  thyme,  winter 
savory,  and  parsley.    Just  cover  the  meat  with  cold  water, 
and  set  it  over  a  quick  fire  till  it  boils;  having  skimmed  it  weU, 
remove  your  soup  kettle  to  the  side  of  the  fire,  let  it  stew  very 
0mtly  till  it  is  quite  tender,  t.  f.  about  four  houn;  then  take 
out  the  bacon  ahd  veal,  strain  the  soup,  and  set  it  by  in  a 
^  cool  place  till  you  want  it,  when  you  must  take  off  the  fiit 
from  the  surface  of  your  liquor,  and  decant  it  (keeping  back- 
the  settlings  at  the  lMBp°^)  into  a  dean  pan. 

If  you  like  a  thiclened  soup,  put  tiiree  table-spoonfuls  of 
the  &t  you  have  taken  off  the  soup  into  a  small  stew-pan,  and 
mix  it  with  'four  table-spoonfuls  Qf  flour,  pour  a  ladlefid  of 
soup  to  it,  and  mix  it  with  the  rest  by  degvees,  and  boii  it* 
up  till  it  is  smooth.  Cut  the  meat  and  gristle  of  the  knucUe 
and  bacon  into  mouthfuls,  and  put  them  into  the  soup^  and  let 
them  get  warm. 

You  may  make  this  more  savoury  by  adding  catsup. 


BROTHS*  80UP9>  ORAYIBS^  AND  SAUCES.  d8T 

Ckar  GrM^  Skmg. 

Cat  hdf  «  pound  of  ham  into  slices,  and  lay  them  at  the 
bottom  of  a  large  stew-pan,  or  stock-pot,  with  two  or  three^ 
poonds  of  lean  beef,  and  as  mudi  veal;  break  the  bones,  and 
laj  them  on  the  meat,  take  off  the  outer  skin  of  two  harge 
<niioB8,  and  two  turnips;  wash,  dean,  and  cut  into  pieces  a 
doupleof  large  carrots,  and  two  heads  of  celery;  and  put  in 
three  dores  and  a  large  bladie  of  mace :  cover  the  stew-pan 
dose,  and  set  it  over  a  smart  fire;  when  the  meat  begins  to 
itdA  to  the  bottom  of  the  stew-pan,  turn  it;  and  when  there 
ii  a  nioe  lMY>wn  glase  at  the  bottom  of  the  stew-pan,  cover  the 
neat  with  hot  water:  watch  it,iiind  when  it  is  coming  to  a 
boil,  put  in  half  a  pint  of  cold  water,  take  off  the  scum,  then 
put  in  half  a  pint  more  cold  water,  and  skim  it  again,  and  con- 
tinue to  do  so  till  no  more  scum  rises.  Now  set  it  on  one  side 
of  die  fire,  to  boil  gently  for  about  four  hours;  strain  it  through 
a  clean  tammis,  or  napkin,  (do  not  squeese  it,  or  the  soup 
will  be  thick,)  into  a  clean  stone  pan,  let  it  remain  till  it  is 
cold,  and  then  remove  all  the  fat ;  when  you  decant  it,  be  care> 
fid  not  to  disturb  the  settlings  at  the  bottom  of  the  pan. 

The  broth  should  be  of  a  fine  amber  colour,  and  as  dearas 
radc  water;  if  it  is  not  so  bright  9B  you  wish  it,  put  it  into  a 
stew-puB ;  break  two  whites  and  shells  of  eggs  into  a  basin, 
beat  them  wdl  togedier,  put  them  into  the  soup,  set  it  on  a 
quick  fire,  and  stir  it  widi  a  whisk  tilt  it  boils;  then  set  it  on 
one  side  of  the  fire,  to  settle  for  ten  minutes,  run  it  through  a 
fine  napkin  into  a  basin,  and  it  is  ready.  However,  if  your 
broth  be  carefblly  skimmed,  &c.  according  to  the  directions 
above  given,  it  will  be  clear  enough  without  clarifying,  which 
process  impairs  the  fiavpur  of  it,  in  a  higher  proportion  than  it 
improves  its  appearance. 

ft 

Scotch  Soup,  or  Winter  Hoteh  Patch. 

Take  the  best  end  of  a  neck  or  loin  of  muttonj^  cut  it  into 
neat  chops,  cut  four  carrots  and  as  many  turnips  into  slices, 
put  on  four  quarts  of  water  with  half  the  carrots  and  turnips, 
and  a  whole  one  of  each,  with  a  pound  of  dried  green  peas, 
which  must  be  put  to  soak  the  night  before,  let  it  boil  two. 
hours,  then  take  out  the  whole  carrot  and  turnip,  bruise  and 
return  them  ;  put  in  the  meat,  and  the  rest  of  die  carrot  and' 


^38  DOMESTIC  COOKBRY. 

turnip,  9ome  pepper  and  salt,  and  boil  slowly  three  qaarters  of 
an  hour ;  a  short  time  before  serving  add  an  onion  cut  smiall, 
and  a  head  of  celery. 

An  exctUent  Soup. 

Take  a  8crag>  or  knuckle  of  veal,  slices  of  undressed  gam-* 
mon  of  bacon,  onions,  mace,  and  a  small  quantity  of  water  ; 
simmer  till  very  strong ;  and  lower  it  with  a  good  beef-faroth 
made  the  day  before,  and  stewed  till  the  meat  is  done  to  rags* 
Add  cream,  vermicelli,  and  almonds,  as  will  be  directed  in  th« 
next  receipt,  ^ndaroll. 

4 

An  excellent  white  Soup. 

Take  a  scrag  of  mutton,  a  knuckle  of  veal,  after  cutting  off 
as  much  meat  as  will  make  collops,  two  or  three  shank-bones 
of  mutton  nicely  cleaned,  and  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  very  fine 
undrest  lean  gammon  of  bacon,  with  a  bundi  of  sweet  herbs, 
a  piece  of  fresh  lemon  peel,  two  or  three  onions,  three  blades 
of  mace,  and  a  dessert-spoonful  of  white  pepper ;  boil  all  in. 
three  quarts  of  water,  till  the  meat  fidls  quite  to  pieces.  Next 
day  take  off  the  fat,  clear  the  jdly  from  the  sediment,  and  put 
it  into  a  sauce-pan  of  the  nicest  tin.  If  macaroni  is  used,  it 
should  be  added  soon  enough  to  get  perfectly  tender,  after 
soaking  in  cold  water.  Vermicelli  may  be  added  after'  the 
thickening,  as  it  requires  less  time  to  do.  ,Have  ready  the 
thickening,  which  is  to  be  made  as  follows : 

Blanch  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  sweet  almonds,  and  beat 
them  to  a  paste  in  a  marble  mortar,  with  a  spoonful  of  water  to 
prevent  their  oiling ;  mince  a  large  slice  of  drest  veal  or  diicken, 
and  beat  it  with  a  piece  of  stale  white  bread ;  add  all  this  to  a 
pint  of  thick  cream,  a  bit  of  thick  lemon  peel,  and  a  blade  of 
mace,  in  the  finest  powder.  Boil  it  a  few  minutes ;  add  to  it 
a  pint  of  soup,  and  strain  and  pulp  it  through  a  coarse  sieve: 
this  thickening  is  then  fit  for  putting  to  the  rest^  which  should 
boil  for  half  an  hour  afterwards. 

A  plainer  white  Soup. 

Two  or  three  pints  of  soup  may  be  made  of  a  small  knuc- 
kle of  veal,  with  seasoning  as  directed  in  the  last  article ;  and 
both  served  together,  with  the  addition  of  a  quarter  of  a  pint 


BROTHS,  BOVn,  GRAVISS,  AND  SAUCS8.  2d9 

e£  good  milk.    Two  tpoonftils  of  creain^  and  a  littie  groand 
tiee,  will  give  it  a  proper  thickness. 

■ 

Samp  Maiffre  AugUii,  mr  Broth  wHkout  Mrtfl. 

Boil  a  small  quantttj  of  catsup  in  a  very  thin  gruel,  with 
a  few  strewed  leaves  of  parslej,  and  a  little  salt.  By  this 
method  alone,  it  is  said,  an  ingenioas  cook  long  deceived  a 
whole  family,  who  were  all  fond  of  weak  mutton  broth.  The 
&ct  is,  that  the  mushroom,  more  than  any  other  vegetable 
aabstance,  perhaps,  approaches  the  nature  and  flavour  of  whole* 
some  animal  flesh.  Walnut  liquor,  which  is  frequently  sub* 
stiiuted  iix  catsiip,  will  by  no  means  answer  this  purpose. 

« 

Flemish  Soup. 

Fed  and  slice  twelve  potatoes,  and  about  half  a  dozeii 
oQiona  ;  and  cut  dx  or  eight  heads  of  celery  into  small  pieces'. 
Pat  diem  into  a  stew-pan  with  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  but- 
ter, and  somewhat  less  than  a  pint  of  water,  and  let  it  boil  very 
alowly,  for  an  hour,  ovef  a  stove.  Fill  the  stew-pan  up  with 
▼cal  stock,  or  good  broth  or  gravy ;  and  having  boiled  it  till 
the  potatoes  are  dissolved,  rub  it  through  a  sieve,  add  a  pint  of 
cream,  and  keep  it  hot  in  a  small  soup  pot  till  served  up.  In* 
deed  all  white  soups  should  be  warmed  by  putting  the  soup  pot 
into  boiling  water.  This  is  a  good  maigre  soup,  only  by  8ub« 
stitnting  more  water  for  the  stock  or  gravy. 

Carrot  Saup» 

Scrape  and  wash  half  a  dozen  large  carrots,  peel  off  the  red 
outside  (which  is  the  only  part  that  should  be  used  for  this 
soup;)  put  It  into  a  gallon  stew-pan,  with  one  head  of  celery", 
and  an  onion,  cut  into  thin  pieces ;  take  two  quarts  of  beef, 
veal,  or  mutton  broth,  or  if  you  have  an^  cold  roast  beef 
bones,  (or  liquor,  in  which  mutton  or  beef  has  been  boiled,) 
yoo  may  make  very  good  broth  for  this  soup:  when  you  have 
put  the  broth  to  the  roots,  coVer  the  stew*pan  close,  and  set  it 
on  a  slow  stove  for  two  hours  and  a  half,  when  the  carrots  will 
be  soft  enough,  (some  cooks  put  in  a  tea-cupfnrof  bread- 
crumbs,)  boil  for  two  or  three  minutes,  rub  it  through  a  tarn- 
flois,  or  hair  sieve,  with  a  wooden  spoon,  and  add  as  much 
broth  as  will  make  it  a  proper  thickness,  i  •  e.  almost  as  thick  a* 


MO  1»OM  SSTIG  -COOKBRY* 

peaasoup:  pat  it  into  a  de«n  steir^pan,  make  it  liot,  aeaioii  it 
with  a  little  salt,  and  send  it  up  with  aome  toaated  bread,. <ntl 
into  pieces,  half  an  inch  square.  Some  pat  it  into  the  soap  ; 
bat  the  best  waj  is  to  send  it  up  on  a  |i3ate,  as  a  side-didi. 

TtiTJit^  Soup. 

Take  off  a  knuckle  of  veal  all  the  meat  that  can  be  made 
into  cutlets.  Sec,  and  set  the  remainder  on  to  stew  with  m» 
onion,  a  bunch,  of  herbs,  a  blade  of  mace,  and  five  pints  of 
water;  cover  it  close;  and  let  it  do  on  a  slow  fire,  fear  or 
fiye  hours  at  least.  Strain  it,  and  set  it  bj  till  nei^t  day  ;  then 
take  the  fiit  and  sediment  from  it,  and  simmer  it  with  tumipa 
cut  into  small  dice  till  tender,  seasoning  it  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Before  serving,  rub  down  lialf  a  i|ioonlul  of  fiour  with  half  a 
pint  of  good  cream,  and  the  sise  of  a  walnut  of  bntter. 
Let  a  small  roll  simmer  in  the  aoup  till  wet  through,  and 
serve  this  with  it.    It  should  be  as  thick  as  middling  creanu- 

Ceiery  Soup, 

Split  half  a  doaen  heads  of  celery  into  slips  about  two  indies 
long,  wash  them  well,  lay  them  on  a  hair  sieve  to  drain,  and 
put  them  into  three  quarts  of  a  clear  gravy  soap,  in  a  galloQ 
soup  pot;  set  it  by  the  side  of  the  fire,  to  stew  very  gently  tiU 
the  celery  is, tender ;  (this  will  take  abont  an  hoar»)  If  any 
scum  rises,  take  it  off,  season  with  a  little  salt. 

When  celery  cannot  be  procured,  half  a  dram  of  the  seed« 
pounded  fine,  which  may  be  considered  as  the  essence  of 
celery*  (costs  only  one-third  of  a  farthing,  and  can  be  had  at 
any  season,}  put  in  a  quarter  of  an  hour  before  the  soup  ia 
done,  will  give  as  much  flavour  to  half  a  gallon  of  aoup,  as 
two  heads  of  celery,  weighing  seven  ounces,  and  costing  fUL 

Maigre,  or  Vegetable  Gravy  Soup* 
Put  in  a  gallon  stew-pan  three  ounces  of  butter,  set  it  over 
a  slow  fire:  while  it  is  melting,  slice  four  ounces  of  onion; 
cut  in  small  pieces,  one  turnip,  one  carrot,  and  one  head  of 
cdery,  ptfl  them  in  the  stew-pan,  cover  it  close,  let  it  fry  till 
they  are  browned ;  this  irill  take  about  twenty-five  minatea : 
have  ready  in  a  sauce-pan  a  pint  of  peas,  with  four  quarts  of 
water;  when  the  roots  in  the  stew-pan  are  quite  biown,  and 


BROTHS,  SOtJM,  ORATllt,  AND  SAUCES.  Ml 

Ae-peas  oone  to  a  boil,  pat  the  peas  and  water  to'  them,  pat  it 
cm  the  fire,  when  it  boils,  scum  it  clean,  and  put  in  a  crust  of 
bread  about  aa  big  as  the  top  of  a  two-penny  loaf,  twenty-four 
berries  of  aUspice,  the  same  of  blade  pepper,  and  two  blades 
of  maee;  cover  it  cloae;  let*itamnier  gently  for  one  hour  and 
h  hd£i  then  set  it  from  the  fire  for  ten  minutes, .  then  pour  it 
eff  very  gently  (so  as  not  to  disturb  the  sediment  at  the  bot« 
torn  of  the  sfeew-pan)  into  a  large  basin,  let  it  stttid  (about  two 
Immts)  till'it  k  quite  dear.:  while  this  is  doing,  shred  one  largo 
turnip,  the  red  part  of  a  laige  carrot,  three  ounces  of  onion 
minced,  and  one  large  head  of  celery  cut  into  small  bits ;  put 
the  turnips  and  carrots  on  the  fire  in  cold  water,  let  them  boil 
five  minutes,  then  dram  them  on  a  sieve;  then  pour  off  the 
wrap  dear  into  a  stew-pan,  put  in  the  roots,  put  the  soup  on 
Ae  fire,  let  it  simmer  gently  till-  tbe  herbs  are  tender,  from 
thirty  to  forty  minutes,  seas^Mi  it  with  ealt  and  a  little  cayeBoe, 
fl&ditisready« 

Yon  may  add  a  table^poonful  of  mushroom  eatsop* 

Vigttakk  Saup9  motftcr  jtwy. 

Fed' and  sMce  six  large  onions,- six  potatoes,' sije  carrots^  and 
fbor  turnips ;  fry  them  in  half  a  pound  of  butter,  and  pour  o» 
them  four  quarts  of  boiling  water.  Toast  a  crust  ^  bread  as 
brown  and  hard  as  possible,  but  do  not  bum  it ;  put  that,  some 
eelery,  sweet  herbs,  white  pepper,  and  sak»  to  the  above ; 
slew  it  all  gently  four  hours,  then  strain  it  throo^  a  coarse 
doth:  have  ready  sliced  carrot,  celery^  and  a  little  turnips  and 
add  to  your  liking :  and  stew  them  tender  in  the  soup.    If  ap* 

proved,  you  may  add  an  anchovy,  and  a  spoonful  of -catsup. 

• 

SpinackSomp* 

Shred  two  handfuls  of  spinach^  a  turnip^  two  onions,  a  head 
of  odery,  two  carrots,  and  a  little  thyme  and  parsley.  Put  all 
Itato  a  stew-pot,  with  a  bit  of  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut,  and- 
a  pint  of  broth,  or  the  water  in  which  meat  has  been  boiled; 
stew  till  the  vegetables  are  quite  tender ;  work  them  through  a 
coarse  cloth  or  sieve  with  a  spoon ;  then  to  the  pulp  of  the 
vegetables,  and  liquor,  put  a  quart  of  fresh  water,  pepper,  and 
•alt,  and  boil  all  together.  Have  ready  some  suet  dumplings; 
Ae  site  of  a  wdnut;  and  before  yon  put  the  soup  into  the  luieen, 
9  Si 


t 


249  DOMBSTIO  COOKBRT* 

put  them  into  it.    The  suet  must  not  be  dired  too  fine:  aad 
take  care  thltt  it  i$  quite  fresh. 

Scotch  Jjcek  Soup. 

Put  the  water  that  haa.boiled  a  leg  of  mutton  into  a  stew- 
pot,  with  a  quantity  of  chopped  leeks,  aod  pef^per  4nd  salt ; 
shntoer  them  an  hour ;  then  mix  some  oatmeal  with  a  little  cold 
water  quite  tanooth^  pour  it  into  the  soup,  set  it  on  a  slow  part 
of  the  fire,  and  let  it  simmer  gently;  but  take  care  that  ttdoe« 
not  burn  to  the  bottom. 

,.  Peas  Soup. 

'  The. common. way. of  maUog  pebs  soup^is,  to  a  quart  of 
split  peas  pat  three  quarts  of:  Cold  soft  water,  not  more,  with 
half  a. pound  of  bacon,  (not  very  £it,)  or  roast  beef  bones,  or 
four  anchovies :  or  instead  of  the  water,  three  quarts  of  the 
liquor  in  which  beef»  mutton,  pork,  or  poultry,  has  been 
boiled,  .tasting  it  first,  to  make  sure  it  is  not  too  salt.    . 

If  the  liquor  is  very  salt,  the  peas  will  never  boil  tender. 
Therefore,  when  yon  miake  peas  soup  with  the  liquor  in  which 
ialted  pork  or  beef  has  been  boiled,  tie  np  the  peas  in  a  doth, 
and  IxhI  them  first  for  an  hour  in  soft  water. 

Wash  two  hei^  of  celery,  cut  it,  and  put  it  in,  with  two 
onions  peeled,  and  a  sprig  of  savory,  or  sweet  maijoram,  or 
lemon  thyfipe;  set  it  on  the  trivet,  and  let  it  simmer  very 
gently  over  a  slow  fire,  sirring  it  every  quarter  of  an  hour  (to 
keep  the  peas  from  sticking  to  and  burning  at  the  bottom  of 
the  souprpot,)  till  the  peas  are  tender^  which  will  be  in  about 
three  hours.  Some  cooks  now  slice  a  head  of  celery,  and  half 
an  ounce  of  onions,  and  fry  them  in  a  little  butter,  and  put 
them  into  the  soup,  till  they  are  lightly  browned,  then  work 
the  whole  *  through  a  coarse  hair  sieve,  or  (what  is  better) 
through  a  tammis,  with  the  back  of  a  wooden  spoon :  put  it 
into  f  clean  stew-pan^  with  half  a  tea*spoonful  of  ground  black 
pepper,  let  it  boil  again  for  ten  minutes,  and  if  aoy  fat  arises, 
skim  it  off. 

Send  up  on  a  plate,  toasted  bread  cut  into  little  pieces  a 
quarter  of  an  inch  square,  or  cut  a  slice  of  bread  (that  has 
been  baked  two  days)  into  dice  not  more  than  half  an 
inch  square :  put  half  a  pound  of  clean  drippings  or  lard  into 


^ 


BROTHS,  hOVtS,  0BAVIE8,  AND  SAUCES.  lM 

aoi  iron  (Vying-pftii;  when  it  it  Jiot^  fry  the  bread;  talie  car« 

mUL  turn  it  about  witb  a  fljioe,  or  by  shaking  <lf  the  pan.  sa  it 

ia  firying,  that  it  inay-be  oi)  each  side  of  a  ddicate  li^t'  brown  j 

take  it  up  witb  a-fiab^tlice,  gad  ky  it  «»  a  iheelf  of  ^per,  Ui 

4Wmi  tbe&t:  becareAf}  that  thSs  is  done  nicely:  send  ttieaa 

«p  ifli  one  side  disb^and;driediandpo«dtwd  minior  s^ror^f  o^ 

reet  ouDJbniBl,  Ac;'in  anMhen  .  ,        •    ;  :  .  . 

The  mbtt'  eaoiloniieal  'nietliod'  of  making  peoi  soup,  is.tii 

the  bones'of  «  joint  of  roast  beef/  and  pot  tbeui  into  ther 

Hqaor  in  whidi  motion/  bee^  pork,  or  poultry,  has  been  boU- 

cd^  and  proceed  as  above.     A  hock,  or  shank  bone' of.  ham,  m 

bam  bone,  the  root  of  a  tongue,  or  a  red  or  pickled  herring, 

are  favourite  additions -with  some  cooks ;  others  send  up  rice, 

<nr  yemiicelli,  with  peas  ioup. 

> 
Green  Peas  Soup. 

There  are  many  methods  of  making  soup  with  green  peas;' 
but  most  of  them  are  combinations  <^  so  many  articles,  and 
have  so  little  of  the  pea  flavour,  that  they  seem  scarcely  en- 
titled to  this  distinguishing  name.  Those  who  approve  the 
ri«di4r  and  more  eoaftplex  modes,  may  stew  peas  in  their  favour** 
ite  soup  of  any  kind,  and  thus  readily  obtain  dieir  wish.  The 
blowing,  however,  will  be  found  an  ezoelient,  plain,  and 
unezpensive  family  method :  Having  shelled  half  a  peck  of 
fine  green  peas,  boil  the  well^washed  shells,  till  very  sof^  in 
three  quarts  of  water,  with  an  oiiion,  some  pepper  and  aiU 
spice,  a  bunch  of  mint  and  other  herbs,  and  another  of  part 
sley,  and  strain  off  the  liquor :  t^en  boil  the  peas  in  a  quart  at 
water,  with  a  little  sugar ;  and,  beating  the  strained  liquor, 
add  that  also.  In  the  mean  time,  haviihg  chopped  all  the  par* 
dey  and  green  herbs  small,  and  fried  them  with  a  quarter  of 
a  pound  of  butter,  and  a  little  flour  and  salt,  add  them  to  the 
soup,  with  another  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter  rolled  in  flour; 
let  them  boil  three  quarters  of  an  hour,  season  to  palate^  and 
serve  it  up  in  a  tureen,  with  thin  slices  or  sippets  of  bread, 
dried  before  the  fire,  but  not  toasted  or  browned,  placed  on  a 
plate.  French  roll  is  still  better  than  bread.  If  a  fine  colour 
b^  desired,  add  half  a  pint  of  spinach  juice  just  before.taking 
|be  soup ;  but  it  must  not  be  afterward  suffered  to  boil. 


M4  ]>OMBBTIC  eOOSJUlT. 

'    .Greiu  Peas  Satgf,'  miktmi  Afccl. 

T«ke|aqteiBt  of  graen  pe&a^'>  0^^  ^^^  ^f^  a.pint  of  Ibe 
yoongttt*  boil  theni  '^epkoMy,  rtnd  put  ibem.jn  the  soup  wkem 
it  ia  fiois^ed^)  pdt  tbcn  oh  in'  tioHing  ir«ter>  .boB  tlwiiiitoiider,' 
aodthm  pour  bff^the^inter  and  ieetit'bjtonakdth^ 
put  th0  peaa  tnio.  a  «ioi?Ur,  aadikmiid  Ithom  feo  a  ttaaslL  .  Tbcii 
put  them  in  two  quarts  of  the  waler  foar  BoiM-  the  peat  in, 
atir  all  well -togetii^,  let'l*  bbil  :np  fair  about  ifiveffrinutefl,  and 
then  rub  it  tluough  a  hidr  fame  or  tnoiiiiia.  ^  Jf  the'  paaa  mte 
good,  it  will  be  as  dnck' and  fine  a. vegetable  aoq>  a»  need  bci 
aent  to  table. 

White  Peas  Soup. 

Take  four  or  five  pounds  of  lean  beef,  abd  'pvit  it  into  -six 
quarts  of  water,  with  a  little  salt  When  it  boils,  skim  it 
clean,  and  put  in  tw4>  carfott,'  three  whole  onions,  a  little 
thyme,  and  tWo  heads  of  otkry.  Wben .  joa  have  dene  Chia^ 
put  in  three  quarts  4if  peasi,  and  bofl  them  with  the  meat  till 
the  latter  is  quite  tend^ :  tshen*  atKatii  the  soup  thtfeiigh  a  hair 
aiere,  at  the  same  tisAe  tubbii^  the  pulp  of  tha  fleas  ao  as  to 
extraet  all  theiK  virtue*  Split  the  ooss^ettoeea intoftwr.  ^jpn* 
ters  each,  and  cut  them  about  fimr  inches  iorlef^gth,  with«  litde 
mint  shred  small:  then  put  half  a  piDund  of  butler  in  a  afcew-» 
pan  that  w31  kfold  youJr  soup,  md  tput  the  lettuce  and  mint  inin 
the  butter,  with  a  leek  dioM  very  thin.  St^  them  a-quarter 
of  ail  iurar,  shaking  them  ibout  nAtn  ;*aad'albr  adding  a  liitb 
of  thi!  sonp,  stew  them  a  q^uuterof  aniianrlon^c  then  put 
In  your  soup,  and  as  muoh  thick  craam  as  ivill^make  it  white: 
keep  stirring  it  till  it  boila,  £ry  a  French  roll  inbiltter  a  little 
crisp,  put  it  in  the  bottom  of  the  tttreen>  poor  the  soup  over, 
ind  serve  it  up»  « 

Peas  Soup  and  Pickled  Park. 

A  oonpleof  pounds  of  the  belly  part  of  pidilad  pask  wjU 
make  very  good  brotli  for  peas  soup,  if  the  pork  bend  tao^t; 
if  it  has  been  in  salt  more  than  two  days,  it  limtft  be  laid  in 
water  the  night  before  it  is  used. 

Put  on  the  ingredients  as  diincfced  finTipeas  soiqp^  in  three 
quarts  of  water;  boil  gently  for  two  hours,  then-  put  in  the 
porki  and  boil  very  gently  till  it  is  enough  tn  eat ;  this  will 


BROTHS,  90VF8^  0AAVW9)  AMI^  SAUCBd.  Ml: 

to it0  thickooifl'j  ^^ idwe^^ath llMipodk dMD^ia boliratHr, 
it iqi-ia « 4i9hj  oveut itrJAlt  a»«ittiful^  BBd  |Nit  it.inte 
fioiip  in  the  tureen. 


PUdm  Pau  Soup. 

Taaquart^ipUt«pfMw«Pd  (Pdl^nde.of  .odtff^  <«idfip<Mt 
cpoks  would  -put  a  hrfg^  ^iM<m»>.  pui  thoeeiiuvtB  of  iMwch,  or 
soft  water;  letthem  $iBuu«cq|it]^9il.a.tiJar^t^«mflead^ 
lor  three  houra»  (stirring  up  every  quarter  of  an  hour  to  pre- 
vent the  peaa  burning  at  die  bottom  of  f)ie  soup  kettle:  if  the 
water  boils  away^  and  the  soiip  gets  too  thick,  addw^mie  boil- 
ixig  water  to  it;)  when  they  are -well  softepedy.work  thent. 
through  a  coarse  sieve,  and  then  throogb  a  fin^  «ieve«or  a  tam- 
mia;  wash  out  your  stew-pan,  and  tb^  return  the  soup  into  it, 
and  give  it  a  boil  up;  take  off  any  scum  that  couM  ap».  and- 
it  is  ready.  Prepare  fried  bread  and  dried  joipt,,  and.,  send; 
tfaem  up  with  it  on  two  side  dishes. 

This  is  an  excellent  faniily  80up>  |Hroduced  with  very  Htde 
trouble  or  expense. 

Asparagus  Soup. 

This  is  made  with  the  points  of  asparagus,  in  the  same 
manner  as  the  green  peas  soup  is  with  peas ;  let  half  the 
asparagna  be  rubbed  through  a  sieve,  and  the  other  cut  in 
pieces  a^bout  an  inch  long,  and  boiled  till  dpne  enough,  and 
sent  up  in  the  soup ;  to  make  two  quarts,  there  must  be  a  pint 
of  heads  to  thicken  it,  and  half  a  pint  cut  in :  take  care  to  pre*, 
serve  these  green  and  a.  little  crisp.  This  soup  is  sometimes 
made  by  adding  the  asparagus  heads  to  common  peas  soup. 
Some  cooks  fry  half  an  ounce  of  onion  in  a  little  butter,  and 
rub  it  through  a  sieve,  and  add  it  with  the  other  ingredients  ; 
the  kaut  gout  of  the  onion  will  entirely  overcome  the  delicate 
flavour  of  the  asparagus,  and  we  protest  against  all  such  com« 
binations. 

Onion  Soup. 

Take  eight  or  ten  large  Spanish  onions,  and  boil  them  in 
milk  and  water  till  they  become  quite  soft,  changing  your  milk 
and  water  three  times  while  the  onions  are  boiling.    When 


Ml  '  '1>01iBBTIC  COOKERY. 

thejr  are  quite  soft  nh  them*  fl^oagh  a  hair  neri.  Gtit  an  old 
cock  into  pieces,  and  boil  it  iar  gravy,  with  one  blade  of 
maoe.  Then  strain  it,  and  having  poared  the  gravy  on  the 
pulp  of  the  onions,  boil  it  gently,  with  the  crumb  of  a  stale 
penny  loaf  grated  into  half  a  pint  of  cream,  and  season  it  to 
your  taste  with  salt  and  Cayenne  pepper.  When  you  serve  it 
iqp>  gnte  a  crust  of  brown  bread  round  the  edge  of  IKe  dish. 
It  will  contribute  ufaeh  to  the  delicacy  of  the  flavour,  if  you' 
add  a  little  stewed  sphuusfa,  or  a  few  heads  of  asparagus. 

•  »  -  •  »     •       - 

WhHe  Ottton  SSrap. 

'  Boil,  or  rather  stew,  over  a  gentle  fire,  in  two  quarts  of 
strong  broth,  four  or  five  large  onions,  peeled  and  chopped 
small.  Then  slice  a  French  roll,  and  putting  about  half  of  it 
in  the  broth,  and  the  rest  at  the  bottom  of  the  soup'  dish,  beat 
up  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  with  half  a  pint  of  cream,  and  stir 
llhem  wdl  in  to  prevent  the  soup  fVom  curdling.  "When  the 
eggs  are  well  incorporated,  and  sufficiently  done,  pour  the 
whole  over  the  slices  of  French  roll  in  the  soup  dish,  and  serve 
it  up  garnished  with  small  boiled  onions.'  This  is  a  very 
agreeable  and  salutary  soup ;  particularly  excellent  for  all  vale- 
tudinarians afflicted  with  the  stone  or  gravel,  gout,  rheuma- 
tism, or  asthma. 

MilkSeup. 

Boil  a  pint  of  milk  with  a  little  salt,  and  if  you  please 
sugar  ;  arrange  some  sliced  bread  in  a  dish,  pour  over  part  of 
your  milk  to  soak  it,  and  keep  it  hot  upon  your  stove,  taking 
care  that  it  does  not  burn.  When  you  are  ready  to  serve  your 
soup,  beat  up  the  yolks  of  five  or  six  eggs,  and  add  them  to  the 
rest  of  the  milk.  Stir  it  over  the  fire  till  it  thickens,  and  then 
take  it  off  for  fear  it  should  curdle. 

Milk  Soup,  with  Onions, 

Take  a  dozen  of  onions,  and  set  them  over  a  stove  till 
they  are  done,  without  being  coloured.  Then  boil  some  milk, 
add  to  it  the  onions,  and  season  it  with  salt  alone.  Put  some 
button  onions  to  scald,  then  pass  them  in  l^uttf  r,  and  when  ten* 
der  add  it  to  the  soup,  and  serve  it  up. 


BROTHS,  SOUPS,  GRAVIES,  AND  SAUCBS.  M7 

'    Rke  Soup, 

Put  a  poand  of  rice  and  a  little  cinnamon  into  two  quaite 
€if  water.  Cover  it  close^  and  let  it  simmer  very  gently  tilk 
die  riee  is  quite  tender.  Take  out  the  cinnamon,  then  sweeten 
it  to  your  palate ;  grate  into  it  half  a  nutmeg,  and  let  it 
sUHid  fill  it  is  cold.  Th^n  beat  up  the  yolks  of  three  ^gs^ 
with  half  a  pint  of  white  wine ;  mix  them  well  tog^her,  and 
stir  them  into  the  rice.  Set  the  whole  over  a  slow  fire,  and 
fceep  stirring  it  all  the  time,  lest  it  should  curdle^  When  it  is 
of  a  good  thickness,  and  boils,  take  it  up,  and  keep  stirring  it 
till  you  pour  it  into  your  dish. 

VafnkilK  Souf^ 

Take  a  knuckle  of  veal  and  a  scrag  of  mutton,  from  each 
c^  which  cut  the  flesh  into  small  pieces  about  the  sise  of  wal* 
nuts,  and  mix  them  together,  with  five  or  six  thin  slices  of 
lean  ham.     Put  into  the  bottom  of  your  pan  about  four  ounces 
of  butter,  and  then  your  meat;  to  ndiich  add  three  or  fout 
blades  of  mace,  two  or  three  carrots,  two  parsnips,  two  largo 
onions;  with  a  clove  stuck  on  both  sides  of  each,  cut  in  four  or 
five  heads  of  celery-  washed  clean,  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs^ 
ei^t  or  ten  morels,  and  an  anchovy.     When  your  articles  are 
thus  prepared  and  mixed  together  in  the  pan,  cover  it  very 
doee,  and  set  it  over  a  slow  fire,  without  any  water,  till  the 
gravy  is  drawn  out  of  the  meat.     When  this  is  done,  pour  it 
out  iiito  a  pot  or  large  basin ;  then  let  the  meat  brown,  (taking 
care  that  it  does  not  bum,)  and  put  into  the  sauce-pan  four 
quarts  of  water.     LiCt  the  whole  boil  gently  till  it  is  wasted  to 
three  pints,  then  strain  it,  and  mix  with  it  the  first  gravy  drawn 
from  the  meat.    Set  it  on  the  fire,  and  add  two  ounces  of  ver- 
micelli, a  nice  head  of  celery  cut  small,  Cayenne  pepper  and 
salt  to  your  taste^  and  let  the  whole  boil  about  six  minutes. 
Lay  a  small  French  roll  in  the  soup  dish,  pour  the  soup  upon 
itr  strew  some  of  the  vermicelli  on  the  sui^ce,  and  then  'serve 
it  to  table. 

> 

Goose  or  Duck  Gihht  Spup. 

Scald  and  pick  very  clean  a  couple,  sets  of  goose,  or  four 
of  duck  giblets,  (the  fresher  the  better,)  wash  them  well  iH 
warm  water,  in  two  or  three  waters ;  cut  olT  the  noses  and 


ft49  DOUBSTIC  COOKBRT. 

split  the  heads,  divide  the  gissards  and  liecka  into  moathfols. 
If  the  gtseardi  are  ncpt  cut  iiito  pieoe^  before  they  arto  done 
enough,  the  rest  of  tlie  meat,  &c.  will  be  done^  too  much  ; 
and  knives  and  foriu  ka»t  no  business  ia  m  soup  phte.   'Cisadt; 
the  bones  of.  the  Ic^,  pat  them  into  a  8liew-^[taiiy  oofver  them^ 
withcdid  wMer:  when  they  boil,  take  off .thescum  aait  riaesr 
then  put  in  a  bundle  of  herbs,  sudi  as  kman:  thyme^  winter 
saifory,  or  marjoraoii  about  three  sprigs  of  «ieh,  and  doubfe 
the  quantity  of  parsley,  twenty  berrisa  of  albpioej  the  s$m# 
of  bhM^  pepper,-— tie,  then  all  «p  in  a  muslin  bag,  and  set  them 
to  stew  very  gently,  till  the  gizzards  are  tender ;  this  will  take  " 
firom  an  hour  and  a  half,  to  two  hours,  according  to  the  size 
and  age  of  the  giblets :  take  them  up  with  a  skimmer,  or  a 
spoon  fun  of  holes,  put  them  into  the  tureen,  and  cdiver  down 
dose,  to  keep  wavm  till  the  soup  is  ready* 

To  thicken  the  soup,  melt  an  ounce  and  a  half  of  batter 
in  a  dean  stew-pm,  stir  in  as  mudi  floor  bb  will  make  it  into  • 
paste  s  then  pour  to  it  by  d^rees  a  ladL^fulof  the  giblet  liquory 
add  theik  remainder  by  degrees,  let  it  boil  about  ten  minatesy 
stirring  it  all  the  while,  for  fear  it  should  boni,-*-skim  i^  anci 
strain  it  through  a  fine  sieve  into  abasm  ;>  wash  o«t  the  stew** 
pan,  then  return  the  soup  into  it,  and  seamm  it  with  a  i^ass  oC 
wine,  a  tabk-spoenful  of  mushroom  catsups  and  a  little  ealt; 
let  it  have  one  boil  up^  and  then  put  the  giblets  in  to  get  hot/ 
andthe'80ttp>isteady.  • 

Fowls  or  turkeys-  heads  msike,good  and*  cheap  soup,  in  the 
same  manner. 


;e  Smip* 

Take  two  old  ^partridges;  ritin  them;  and  cut  them  into 
pieces,  witb'thfte  or  Ibur  slices  of  ham,  a  stick  of  celery,  and 
three  lai^  onions  cut  into  slices*  Fry  them  all  in  butter  till 
brown^  but  take  care  not  to  burn  them«  Then  put  them  into 
a  stew*pan>  with  five  pints  of  boiling  water,  a  few  pepper- 
corns, a  shank  or  two  of  mutton,  and  a  litde  salt.  Stew  it 
gendy  two  hours ;  then  strain  it  through  a  sieve,  and  put  it 
again  into  a  stew-pan,  with  some  stewed  cel^y  and  fried  bread; 
when  it  is  near  boilings  skim  it,  pour  it  into  a  toreen,  and  serve 
il  up  hot 


BROTHSy  SOUPS,  GRAVIES,  AND  SAUCB9.  249 

Hare  or  Rabbit  Soup, 

Cat  a  large  hare  or  rabbit  into  pieces,  and  put  it  into  an  earth- 
en mug,  with  three  blades  of  mace,  two  large  onions,  a  little  salt, 
a  red  herring,  half  a  dozen  large  morels,  a  pint  of  red  wine,  and 
three  quarts  of  water.  Bake  it  three  hours  in  a  quick  oven»  and 
then  strain  the  liquor  into  a  stew-pan.  Have  ready  boiled  four 
ounces  of  French  barley,  and  put  in ;  just  scald  the  liver,  and 
rub  it  through  a  sieve  with  a  wooden  spoon ;  put  it  into  the 
soup,  set  it  over  the  fire,  but  do  not  let  it  boiL  Keep  it  stir- 
ring till  it  is  on  the  brink  of  boiling,  and  then  take  it  oC 
Put  some  crisped  bread  into  your  tureen,  and  pour  the  soup 
into  it.  This  is  a  most  delicious  rich  soup,  and  calculated  for 
large  entertainments.  If  any  other  kind  of  soup  is  provided^ 
this  should  be  placed  at  the  bottom  of  the  table. 

Gume  Saup» 

In  the  game  season,  it  is  easy  for  a  cook  to  give  her  master 
a  very  good  soup  at  a  very  little  expense,  by  taking  .all  tbe 
meat  off  the  breasts  of  any  cold  birds  which  have  be«i  left  the 
preceding  day,  and  pounding  it  in  a  mortar,  and  beating  to 
pieces  the  legs  and  bones,  and  boiling  them  in  some  broth  for 
an  hoUir.  Boil  six  turnips,  mash  them,  and  strain  them  through 
a  tammis  doth  with  the  meat  that  haa  been  pounded  in  a  mortar ; 
strain  your  broth,  and  put  a  little  of  it  at  a  time  into  the  tam- 
mis, to  help  you  to  strain  all  of  it  through.  Put  your  soup- 
kettle  near  the  fire,  but  do  not  let  it  boil :  when  ready  to  dish 
your,  dinner,  have  six  yolks  of  eggs  mixed  with  half  a  pint  of 
cream,  strain  through  a  sieve,  put  your  soup  on  the  fire,  and 
as  it  is  coming  to  a  boil,  put  in  the  eggs,  and  stir  well  with  a 
wooden  spoon ;  do  not  let  it  boil,  or  it  will  curdle. 

Macaroni  Soup. 

Boil  a  pound  of  the  best  macaroni  in  a  quart  of  good 
stock  til]  quite  tender ;  then  take  out  half,  and  put  it  into 
another  stew-pot.  To  the  remainder  add  some  more  stock, 
and  boil  it  till  you  can  pulp  all  the  macaroni  through  a  fine 
sieve*  :;3S|i6^add  together  that,  the  two  liquors,  a  pint  or 
mfireiof  Jmm  trailing,  h^^  themaoironi  that  was  first  taken 
#ttt,  and  hflf,,a  pound  of  grated  Parflieaail  cheese;  make  it 


ifid  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

hot,  but  do  not  let  it  boil*    Serve  it  with  the  crust  of  a  French 
roll  cut  into  the  size  of  a  shilling. 

Soup  and  BouillL 

The  beat  parts  for  this  purpose,  are  the  leg  or  shin,  or  the 
piece  of  the  middle  of  a  brisket  of  beef,  of  about  seven  or  eight 
pounds  weight ;  la j  it  on  a  fish  drainer,  or  when  you  take  it 
up,  put  a  slice  under  it,  which  will  enable  you  to  place  it  on 
the  di«h  entire  ;  piH  it  into  a  soup-pot  or  deep  stew-pan,  with 
cold  water  enough  to  cover  it,  and  a  quart  over,  set  it  on  a 
quick  fire  to  get  the  scum  up,  which  remove  as  it  rises ;  the^i 
put  in  two  carrots,  two  turnips,  two  leeks,  or  two  large  oniops, 
two  heads  ot  criery,  two  or.  three  cloves,  and  a  faggot  of 
parsley  ancl  sweet  herbs ;  set  the  pot  by  the  side  of  the  fire  to 
simmer  very  gently,  till  the  meat  is  just  tender  enough  to  eat ; 
this  will  require  about  four  or  five  hpurs. 

Put  a  large  carrot,  a  turnip,  a  large  onion,  and  a  head  or 
two  of  celery,  into  the  soup  whole, — take  them  out  as  soon  as 
they  are  done  enough,  lay  them  on  a  dish  till  they  are  cold, 
then  cut  them  into  small  squares :  when  the  beef  is  done,  take 
it  out  carefully,  strain  the  soup  through  a  hair  sieve  into  a 
dean  stew-pan,  take  off  the  fat,  and  put  the  vegetables  that 
are  cut  into  the  soup,  the  flavour  of  which  you  may  heighten, 
by  adding  a  table-spoonful  of  mushroom  catsup. 

If  a  thickened  soup  is  preferred,  take  four  large  table- 
spoonfuls  of  the  clear  &t  from  the  top  of  the  pot,  and  four 
spoonfuls  of  flour :  mix  it  smooth  together,  then  by  degrees 
stir  it  well  into  the  soup,  which  simmer  for  ten  minutes  lobger 
at  least;  skim  it  well,  and  pass  it  through  a  tammis,  or  fine 
sieve,  and  add  the  vegetables  and  seasoning  the  same  as  direct- 
ed in  the  clear  soup. 

Og  HeadSoup^ 

This  should  be  pre|Hired  the  day  before  it  is  to  be  eaten,  as 
you  cannot  cut  the  meat  off  the  head  into  neat  mouthfuls  unless 
it  is  cold :  therefore  the  day  before  you  want  this  soup,  put 
half  an  ox  cheek  into  a  tub  of  cold  water  to  soak  for  a  coii^le 
of  hours,  then  break  the  bones  that  have  not  been  broken  at  the 
butcher's,  and.  wash  it  very  w^L  in  warm  water  ;  put  it  into  a 
pot,  and  cover  it  with  cold  water;  when  it  boils,  skim  it  very 


BROTHS,  mvn,  «BAVR9»  AND  SAUCBS.     SSI 


dam^  luAl  Aea  pat  in  bhe  head  iof  oderjr/  a  coaple  of  carrbts, 
m  tdntiip,  two  large  onimi^  two  dozen  beiges  of  black  peppery 
tiK'same  iof  alkptce,  and  a  bundle  of  sweet  herbs,  such  as 
ittaijornn,  leinon  ttt^me,  SBTory,  and  a  hai^dfal  of  parslty ; 
ccifet  the  wadf^hfoi  tlose,  and  set  it  on  a  slow  fire  i  take  off  the 
^imn,  yMdtk  will  riie  wlien  it  is  coming  to  a  botl,  arid  set  it 
Ity^e  fir^siife  to  stew  Very  gently  for  about  three  hours  t  take 
out  the  head^  lay  it  oii  A  dish,  poor  the  soup  through  a  fine 
sieve  into  a  stone-ware  pan,  tod  set  it  and  the  head  by  in  a 
cool  place  till  the  next  day ;  then  cut  the  meat  into  neat  mouth- 
fttls,  skim,  and  strain  off  ^e  broth ;  put  two  quarts  of  it  and 
die  meHt  into  a  dean  stew-pan,  let  it  simmer  very  gently  for 
half  an  hoar  Ibnger,  and  it  is  ready.  If  you  wish  it  thicken* 
ed,  (which  we  do  not  recoihmend,)  put  two  ounces  of  butter 
into  a  stew-pan;  when  it  is  melted,  throw  ir  as  much  flour  as 
will  dry  it  up ;  when  they  are  well  miied  together,  and 
browned  by  degrees,  poar  to  diis  your  Boop,  and  stir  it  well 
t<^^her,  let  it  sifnmer  for  half  an  hour  longer,  strain  it 
dnough  a  hair  Aeve  into  a  clean  stew-pan,  and  put  io  it  the 
meSt  of  the-Head ;  let  it  stew  half  an  hour  longer,  and  season 
It  with  Cayenne  pe[iper,  salt,  and  a  glass  ol*  good  wine,  or  iC 
td^e-spoonfitl  of  bnmdy. 

OxTailStngf. 

Two  tai}%  crating  about  seveiupence  ^cfa,  will  mslke  a 
tureen  of  soup ;  (desire  the  butcher  to  divide  them  at  the 
joints,)  lay  tlientf  to  soak  in  Warm  water,  whil^  you  get  ready 
the  vegetables. 

Put  intd  a  gallon  stew-^n,  eight  cloves,  two  or  three 
Anions,  half  a  dram  of  allspice,  and  the  same  of  black  pepper^ 
and  the  tails ;  cover  tliem  with  cold  water ;  skim  it  carefully; 
when  and  Ss  long  as  you  see  any  scum  rise ;  then  cover  the  pot 
as  close  as  posatbte,  and  set  it  on  the  side  of  the  fire  to  keep 
gently  alttimtttng  tiil  the  meat  becomes  tender,  and  will  leave 
die  btfhes  Easily,  blecaase  it  is  to  be  eaten.with  a  spoon ;  this 
will  reitjnire  aboat  two  hours;  mind  it  is  not  done  too  milch: 
When  perfectly  tender,  take  out  the  meat,  (which  s6nie  cobks 
cut  off  the  bones,  in  neat  mouthfuls,  which  is  the  best  way  of 
tarfhig  It,')  skim  the  broth,  and  strain  it  through  a  sieve.  If 
yba  ilndSir  a  tlkickciied  soup;  pikt  floor  and  bcUter,  as  diredBd 


352  DOMESTIC  COOKBRY. 

in  the  preceding  receipt^  or  pat  two  table-spoonfuls  of  the  ht 
you  have  taicen  off  the  broth  into  a  dean  stew-pan^  with  aa 
innch  flour  as  will  make  it  into  a  paste;  set  this  over  the  fire^ 
and  stir  them  well  together,  then  pour  in  the  broth  by  degteea, 
stirring  it  and  mixing  it  with  the  thickening ;  let  it  simmer  for 
another  half  hour,  and  when  you  have  well  skimmed  it,  and  it 
is  quite  smooth,  then  strain  it  throiugh  a  tammia  into  a  dean 
stew-pan,  put  in  the  meat,  with  a  table-spoonful  of  mush« 
voom  catsup,  a  glass  of  wine,  and  season  it  with  salt. 

Ox  Heel  Soup. 

This  must  be  made  the  day  before  it  is  eaten.  Procure  an 
ox  heel  undressed,  or  only  scalded,  (not  one  that  has  been 
already  boiled,  as  they  are  at  the  tripe  shops,  till  almost  all  the 
gelatinous  parts  are  extracted,  and  two  that  have  been  boiled 
as  they  usually  are  at  the  tripe  shops. 

Cut  the  meat  off  the  boiled  heels  into  neat  mouthfuls,  and 
set  it  by  on  a  plate ;  put  the  trimmings  and  bones  into  a  stew- 
pan,,  with  three  quarts  of  water,  and  the  unboiled  heel  cut 
into  quarters ;  furnish  a  stew-pan  with  two  onions  and  two 
turnips  pared  and  sliced,  pare  off  the  red  part  of  a  couple  of 
large  carrots,  add  a  couple  of  eschalots  cut  in  half,  a  bunch  of 
savory,  or  lemon  thyme,  and  double  the  quantity  of  parsley  ; 
set  this  over  or  by  the  side  of  a  slow  steady  fire,  and  keep  it 
dosely  covered  and  simmering  very  gently  (or  the  soup  liquor 
wiU  evaporate,)  for  at  least  seven  hours ;  during  which,  take 
care  to  remove  the  fat  and  scum  that  will  rise  to  the  sur&ce  of 
the  soup,  which  must  be  kept  as  clean  as  possible. 

Now  strain  the  liquor  through  a  sieve,  and  put  two  ounces 
of  butter  into  a  clean  stew-pan ;  when  it  is  mdted,  stir  into  it 
as  much  flour  as  will  make  it  a  stiff  paste,  add  to  it  by 
degrees  the  soup  liquor,  give  it  a  boil  up,  strain  it  through  a 
sieve,  and  put  in  the  peel  of  a  lemon  pared  as  thin  as  possible, 
and  a  couple  of  bay-leaves,  and  the  meat  of  the  boiled  beds  ; 
let  it  go  on  simmering  for  half  an  hour  longer,  t.  e.  till  the 
meat  is  tmder.  Put  in  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  a  glass  of  wine, 
and  a  table-spoonful  of  mushroom  catsup,  and  the  soup  ia 
ready  for  the  tureen. 

Those  who  are  disposed  to  make  this  a  more  substantial 
£sh,  may  iqtftduce  a  ooupte  of  sets  of  goose  or  duck  gibletsji 
pr  ox  tails,  or  a  pound  of  ved  cutlets^  cut  into  mouthfuls. 


kiROTHS,  80UP8,  6RAVIB8,  AND  SAUCES.  263 

Calf$  Hegd  Soup. 
Warii  the  head  as  dean  as  possible,  which  yoo  will  the 
more  easily  do  by  strewing  a  little  salt  on  it  to  take  out  the 
dime.  After  it  is  thoroughly  cleansed,  put  it  into  your  stew* 
pan,  with  a  proper  quantity  of  water,  and  throw  in  a  bunch 
of  sweet  herbs,  an  onion  stuck  with  cloves,  Ave  or  six  blades 
€>f  nuce,  a^d  some  pearl  barley.  When  it  has  stewed  till  it  is 
tender,  put  in  some  stewed  celery.  Season  it  with  pepper, 
poor  the  soup  into  your  dish,  place  the  head  in  the  middle,  and 
serre  it  to  table. 

Hessian  Soup  and  Ragoui. 

Clean  the  root  of  a  neat's  tongue  very  nicely,  and  half  an 
oz*s  head,  with  salt  and  water,  and  soak  them  afterwards  in 
water  only.  Then  stew  them  in  five  or  six  quarts  of  water, 
till  tolerably  tender.  Let  the  soup  stand  to  be  cold ;  take  off 
the  fat,  which  will  make  good  paste  for  hot  meat>pies,  or  will 
do  to  baste.  Put  to  the  soup  a  pint  of  split  peas,  or  a  quart  of 
whole  ones,  twelve  carrots,  six  turnips,  six  potatoes,  six  large 
onions,  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  and  two  heads  of  celery. 
Simmer  them  without  the  meat,  till  the  vegetables  are  done 
enough  to  pulp  with  the  peas  through  a  sieve ;  and  the  soup 
will  dien  be  about  the  thickness  of  cream.  Season  it  with  pep- 
per, salt,  mace,  allspice,  a  clove  or  two.  and  a  little  cayenne, 
all  in  fine  powder.  If  the  peas  are  bad,  the  soup  may  not  be 
thick  enough ;  then  boil  in  it  a  slice  of  roll,  and  put  it  through 
the  colander ;  or  add  a  little  rice  fiour,  mixing  it  by  degrees. 

For  the  ragout,  cut  the  nicest  part  of  the  head,  the  ker« 
nels,  and  part  of  the  fat  of  the  root  of  the  tongue,  into  small 
thick  pieces.  Rub  these  with  some  of  the  above  seasoning,  as* 
you  put  them  into  a  quart  of  the  liquor,  kept  out  for  that  pur- 
pose before  the  vegetables  were  added ;  flour  well,  and  simmer 
them  till  nicely  tender.  Then  put  a  little  mushroom  and  wal« 
nut  catsup,  a  little  soy,  a  glass  of  port  wine,  and  a  tea-spoon- 
ful  of  made  mustard ;  and  boil  all  up  together  before  served. 
If  for  company,  small  eggs  and  forcemeat  baUs. 

This  way  furnishes  an  excellent  soup  and  a  ragout  at  a 
small  expense,  and  they  are  not  common.  The  other  part  will 
warm  for  the  family. 


IM  BOUfBSTIC  COOKCRT. 

PortMe  Souff  or  Ghze, 

Dtekt  the  biitdier  to  break  the  bones  of  a  1<^  om  shih  of 
beef^  of  ten  pounds  weight,  (the  fi'esher  kilkd  the  better^)^ 
pat  it  into  a  Miip  pot  that  will  well  hold  it ;  just  cover  it  with 
oohl  water,  vnd  set  it  on  liie  fire  to  heat  gradually  till  it  nearly 
boils,  (tins  Aould  be  at  least  sin  hour ;)  skim  ft  attentiydy 
while  any  scom  rises,  poyr  in  a  litdeoold  water^  to  throw  dp 
die  scum  that  aiay  remain,  let  it  come  to  a  boil  again,  and  agaiii 
ddm  it  corefofiy :  when  no  more  scorn  rises>  And  the  broth 
appears  clear,  (put  in  neither  roots,  nor  herbs,  ik6r  salt,)  let  it 
boil  for  eight  or  ten  hours,  and  then  strain  it  through  a  hair 
sieve  into  a  brown  stone  pan  ;  set  die  broth  where  it  will  cool 
quickly ;  put  the  meat  into  a  sieve,  and  let  it  drain.    Next  day 
vemove  every  particle  o£  f^  from  the  top  of  it,  and  pour  it 
through  a  tammis,  or  fine  sieve,  as  quietly  as  possible,  into  a 
Vtew-pan,  taking  ctfe  not  to  let  any  of  the  settlings  at  the  bot« 
tom  of  the  stone  pan  go  into  the  stew-pan,  wh^ch  should  be 
of  thick  copper,  perfectly  well  tinned ;  add  a    |uarter  of  an 
ounce  of  whole  black  pepper  to  it,  let  it  boil  briskly,  with  the 
stew-pan  uncovered,  on  a  quick  fire :  if  any  scum  rises,  take 
it  off  with  a  skimmer ;  when  it  begins  to  thicken,  and  is  re« 
duced  to  about  a  quart,  put  it  into  a  smaller  stew-pan ;  set  it 
over  a  gentle  fire,  till  it  is  reduced  to  the  thickness  of  a  very 
thick  syrup ;  take  care  that  it  does  not  bum ;  a  moment's  inatr 
tention  now  will  lose  you  all  your  labour,  and  the  soup  will  be 
Spoiled.    Take  a  little  of  it  out  in  a  spoon,  and  let  it  cool ;  if  it 
sets  into  strong  jelly,  it  is  done  enough ;  if  it  does  not,  boil  it  a 
litUe  longer,  till  it  does :  have  ready  some  little  pots,  such  as 
ere  used  for  potted  meats,  about  an  inch  and  a  half  deep,  taking 
eare   that  they    are  quite  dry;   we    recommend   it   to    be 
kept  in  these  pots,    if  it  is  for  home  consumption,— (the 
less  it  is  reduced,  the  better  is  the  flavour  of  the  soup) — if  it  be 
suffidently  concentrated  to  ke^  for  six  months.    If  yo«  wish  to 
preserve  it  longer,  put  it  into  such  bladders  as  are  used  for 
German  sausages;  or  if  you  prefer  it  in  the  form  of  cakes,  poor 
it  into  a  dish  about  a  quarter  of  an  inch  deep  ;  when  it  is  ook^ 
turn  it  out  and  l^eigh  the  cake,  and  divide  it  with  a  paste-cutter 
into  piecesof  half  anounce  or  an  ounce  each:  place  them  in  a  warm 
room,  and  turn  them  frequently  till  they  are  thoroughly  dried  ; 
this  will  take  a  week  or  ten  days ;  turn  them  twice  a  day . 


BBOTH8,  80I7P8»  GJUYIM,  AND  0AUCBS.  SS& 

wbcB  w«IL  tAi€UQe4t  8114  ^Rt  in  a  ^17  place,  thqr  may  be 
preaeiyed:  for.  aewpc^  yean  ia  ai^y  cUmate, 

If,  aftfr  9^y€9!)d  days'  drying,  it  does  not  become  so  hard  aa 
yo«  wi4t>>.pat:  it  iotp  a  8tewrpai|«  or  a  milkrboilarf  till  it  ia 
evajp«|fat^:  to  thf}.cscNW8t^i¥s^  you  wjsb ;  or^  aejt  the  ppts  in  a 
cool  ov^u.  or  in  a  che^fae  toaat^,  at.  a  ooiiaidevabla  diftanoa 
&^  the  fire;  this  i^  the  only,  s^ffe  way  of  redueing.it  very 
madly  without  the.  risk,  oi^  its  biviuqg»  acid  aqqoirifig  an  ej;^ 
tKfmply,disagreeabl<5  acrid,  flavojui^  ^c«  This  pprtaUe.  soup  ia 
a  aiQ^, convenient  art^cl^  in  cookery,,  espeoiajily  in  small  iam^ 
lies^  wbf^  it  will  s^ve  a  gre^  deal  of .  tivnft  aiid  ttoiiUe.  It  ia 
a)sa  ecano^ciica^  fiirno  mprpwiU;  be.n^dted  tbflu^  is  wanted: 
sp..thera  is  no  waste.  j  * 

Colouring  for  5<mps  or  Gtavki. 

Pot  four  ounceis  of  luinp  sngp^  a  gill  of  watsr>  and  half 
an  oupce  of  the  finest  butter,  iQtQ  a  small  tosser,  aod  set  i% 
over  a  gentle  fire.  Stir  it  with  a  wooden  spoon,  till  ofa  bright 
brown.  Then  add  half  a  jynt  of  water ;  boil,  skim,  and  when 
cold,  bottle  and  cork  it  close.  Add  to  soup  or  gravy  aa  nmcb 
ef  this  as  will  give  a.prpp^r  cploor, 

A  clear  hrown  Stock  far  Qraicy-Souf  or  Gravy. 

Put  a  knuckle  of  veal,  a  pound  of  lean  beef^  and  a  ponnd 
of  the  lean  of  a  gammon  of  bacpn,  all  sliced,  into  a  stew-pan 
with  two  or  three  scraped  carrots,  two  onions,  two  turnips, 
two  beads  of  celery  sliced,  and  two  quarts  of  water.  Stew  the 
meat  quite  tender,  but  do  not  let  it  brown*  When  thus 
prepared,  it  will  serve  either  for  soup,  or  brown  or  white 
gravy ;  if  -for  brown  g^vy,  put  in  some  of  the  above  colour- 
ing, and  boil  a  few  minutes. 

T0  cbu^fyyBroth  or  Qram^ 

Pot  oa  the- broth  ip  a  dean  ttew«pan,  break  the  white  and 
diettof  aa  ^g,  beat  them^  together,  put  them  into  the  broth, 
stir  It  wi4fc  a  whia|c ;  when-  it  has  boiled  a  few  miniites>  sInM 
it  through  a  tammis  or  anapkin^ 

Eel  ^09^., 

To  make  a  tureenful,  take  a  couple  of  middling-siaed 
•nioiiiy  cut  them  in  half,  and  cross  your  knife  over  them  two 


S5d  BOMBSTIC  COOKBRY. 

or  three  times ;  put  two  ounces  of  butter  into  a  stew-pnn  j' 
when  it  is  melted,  put  in  the  onions^  stir  them  about  till  they: 
are  lightly  browned, — cut  into  pieces  three  pounds  of  unskinned 
eels,  put  them  into  your  stew-pan,  and  shake  them  over  the 
fire  for  five  minutes ;  then  add  three  quarts  of  boiling  water, 
and  when  they  come  to  a  boil,  take  the  scum  off  very  dean, 
then  put  in  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  the  green  leaves  (not 
dried)  of  winter  savory,  the  same  of  lemon  thyme,  and  twice 
the  quantity  of  parsley,  two  drams  of  allspice,  the  same  of 
black  pepper,— cover  it  dose,  and  let  it  boil  gently  for  two 
hours,  then  strain  it  off,  and  skim  it  very  clean.  To  thicken 
it,  put  three  ounces  of  butter  into  a  dean  stew-pan;  when  it 
is  melted,  stir  in  as  nikuch  flour  as  will  make  it  of  a  stiff  paste^ 
then  add  the  liquor  by  degrees,  let  it  simmer  for  ten  muiuteSy 
and  pass  it  through  a  sieve,  then  put  your  soup  on  in  a  deaa 
stew-pan,  and  have  ready  some  little  square  pieces  of  fish  firied 
of  a  nice  light  brown, — either  eds,  soles,  plaice,  or  skate  will 
do;  the  fried  fish  should  be  added  about  ten  minutes 
before  the  soup  is  served  up.  Forcemeat  balls  are  8ome« 
times  added. 

Excellent  fish  soups  may  be  made  with  a  cod's  skull,  or 
skate,  or  flounders,  &c.  boiled  in  no  more  water  than  will  just 
cover  them,  aod  the  liquor  thickened  with  oatmeal,  &c. 

Cray  Fish  Soup. 

This  soup  is  sometimes  made  with  beeC  or  veal  bratli,  or 
with  fish,  in  the  following  manner. 

Take  flounders,  eds,  gudgeons,  &c.  and  set  them  on  la 
boil  in  cold  water;  when  it  is  pretty  nigh  boiling,  scum  it  well, 
and  to  three  quarts  put  in  a  couple  of  onions^  and  as  many  car« 
rots  cut  to  pieces,  some  parsley,  a  dosen  berries  of  black  and 
Jamaica  pepper,  and  about  half  a  hundred  cray  fish ;  take  off 
the  smdl  daws,  and  shells  of  the  tails,  pound  them  fine,  and 
boil  them  with  the  broth  about  an  hour ;  strain  off,  and  bteak 
in  some  crusts  of  bread  to  thicken  it,  and  if  you  can  get  it,  the 
spawn  of  a  lobster,  pound  it,  and  put  to  the  soup^  letit  aini* 
mer  very  gently  for  a  couple  of  minutes,  put  in  your  cray  fisk 
to  get  hot,  and  the  soup  is  ready. 


BllOTHS,  SOUPS,  6RAVIES9  AND  SAUCBS.  267 

Lobiter  S&up. 

Yoa  must  haye  three  fine  lively  young  h«n  lobsters,  and  boil 
tbem ;  when  cold,  split  the  tails^  take  out  the  fish,  crack  the 
claws,  and  cut  the  meat  into  monthfula :  take  out  the  coral,  and 
soft  part  of  the  body,  bruise  part  of  the  coral  in  a  mortar,  pick 
out  the  fish  from  thechiues,  beat  part  of  it  with  the  coral,  and 
with  this  make  forcemeat  balls,  finely  flavoured  with  mace  or 
nutm^,  a  little  grated  lemon-peel,  anchovy  and  cqrenne; 
pound  these  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg. 

Have  three  quarts  of  veal  broth :  bruise  the  small  legs  and 
the  chine,  and  put  them  into  it,  to  boil  fbr  twenty  minutes, 
then  strain  it ;  and  then  to  thicken  it,  take  the  live  spawn  and, 
braise  it  in  a  mortar  with  a  Kttle  butter  and  flour,  rub  it  through 
a  sieve,  and  add  it  to  the  soup  with  the  meat  of  the  lobsters, 
and  the  remaining  coral ;  let  it  simmer  very  gently  for  ten 
minutes ;  do  not  let  it  boil,  or  its  fine  red  colour  will  immedi- 
ately fade ;  turn  it  into  a  tureen,  add  the  juice  of  a  good 
lemon,  and.  a  little  essence  of  anchovy. 

Oyster  Soup, 

Take  a  pound  of  skate,  four  or  five  flounders,  and  two  eels ; 
cut  |ihem  into  pieces,  just  cover  them  with  water,  atid  season 
with  mace,  an  onion  stuck  with  cloves,  a  head  of  celery,  two 
parsley  roots  sliced,  some  pepper  and  salt,  and  a  bunch  of 
sweet  herbs.  Cover  them  doMm  close,  and  after  they  have 
simmered  about  an  hour  and  a  half,  strain  the  liquor  clear  fiff, 
and  pot  it  into  a  dean  sauce-pan.  In  the  mean  time  take  a 
quart  of  oysters  bearded,  and  beat  them  in  a  mortar  with  the 
yolks  of  six  eggs  boiled  hard.  Season  it  with  pepper,  salt, 
and  grated  nutmeg;  and  when  the  liquor  boils  put  all  into  it. 
Let  the  whole  boil  till  it  becomes  of  the  thickness  of  cream, 
then  take  it  off,  poor  it  into  your  tureen,  and  serve  it  to  table. 

Oyster  Mouth  Soup, 

Make  a  rich  mutton  broth,  with  two  large  onions,  three 
blades  of  maoe,  and  black  pepper.  When  strained,  pour  it  on 
a  hundred  and  fifty  oysters,  without  the  beards,  and  a  bit  of 
butter  rolled  in  flour.    Simmer  gently  a  quarter  of  an  hour, 

■ 

and  serve. 

10  «L 


268  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

ORAYIES  AND  SAUCES. 

'    Excelltnt  keeping  Grany. 

•  Bum  an  oance  of  butter  in  a  frying-pan ;  always  takinif 
care  to  do  it  at  such  a  proper  distance  from  the  fire,  that  while 
the  flour  is  strewing  into  the  butter^  it  may  become  brown, 
but  not  black.  Puf  to  it  two  pounds  of  coarse  lean  beef,  a 
quart  of  water,  half  a  pint  of  either  red  or  white  wine,  three 
anchovies,  two  shalots^  a  little  white  pepper,  a  few  clovea, 
and  a  bit  of  mace,  with  three  or  four  mushrooms  or  pickled 
walnuts.  After  letting  the  whole  stew  gently  about  an  hour, 
at  may  be  strained  for  use ;  it  will  keep  several  days>  and  is 
pvoper  for  any  savoury  dish. 

« 

Beef  Grmnf. 

Cover  the  bottom  of  a  stew-pan,  that  is  well  tinned  and 
quite  clean,  wish  a  slice  of  good  ham,  or  lean  bacoD^  four  or 
five  pounds  of  gravy  beef  cut  into  half  pound  pieces,  a  carrot, 
an  onion  with  two  cloves  stuck  in  it,  and  a  head  of  celery  ; 
put  a  pint  of  broth  or  water  to  it,  cover  it  close^  and  set  it 
over  a  moderate  fire  till  the  water  is  reduced  to  as  little  as  will 
just  save  the  ingredients  from  burning;  then  turn  it  all  about, 
and  let  it  brown  slightly  and  equally  all  over ;  then  put  in  three 
quarts  of  boiling  water  when  it  boils  up,  skim  it  carefully,  and 
wipe  off  with  a  dean  cloth  what  sticks  round  the  edge  and 
inside  of  the  stew-pan,  that  your  gravy  may  be  delicatety  clean 
and^lear.  A  great  deal  of  care  is  to  be  taken  to  watch  the 
time  of  putting  in  the  water;  if  it  is  poured  in  too  soon,  the 
gravy  will  not  have  its  true  flavour  and  colour ;  and  if  it  be  let 
alone  till  the  meat  sticks  to  the  pan,  it  will  get  a  burnt  taste. 
Set  the  gravy  by  the  side  of  a  fire,  where  it  will  stew  gently 
(to  keep  it  clear,  and  that  it  may  not  be  reduced  too  much)  fijr 
about  four  hoars :  if  it  has  not  boiled  too  fast,  there  should  be 
two  quarts  of  good  gravy ;  strain  through  a  silk  or  tammis 
sieve ;  take  very  particular  care  to  skim  it -well,  and  set  it  in  a 
cold  place. 

Strong  Savaunf  Qrmnf. 

Take  a  stew«pan  that  will  hold  four  quarts,  lay  a  slice  or 
two  of  ham  or  bacon  (about  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick)  at  the 


•BROTHS,  SOUPS,  GRAVIES,  AND  SA17CB8.  259 

bottom,  (undressed  is  the  best,)  and  two  pounds  of  beef,  or 
▼eal,  a  carrot,  a  large  onion,  with  four  cloves  stuck  in  it,  one 
head  of  celery,  a  bundle  of  parsley,  lemon  thyme,  and  savory, 
about  as  big  round  as  your  little  6nger  when  tied  close,  a  few' 
leaves  of  sweet  basil,  (one  bay  leaf,  and  a  shalot,  if  you  like 
it,)  a  piece  of  lemon  peel,  and  a  dozen  corns  of  allspice ;  pour 
on  this  half  a  pint  of  water,  cover  it  close,  and  let  it  simmer 
gently  on  a  slow  6re  for  half  an  hour,  in  which  time  it  will  be 
almost  dry ;  watch  it  very  carefully,  and  let  it  catch  a  nice 
brown  colour;  turn  the  meat,]&c.  let  it  brown  on  all  sides ;  add 
three  pints  of  boiling  water,  and  boil  for  a  couple  of  hours.  It 
ia  now  rich  gravy. 

CuOis,  or  thickened  Gravy. 

To  a  quart  of  gravy,  put  a  table-spoonful  of  thickening, 
or  from  one  to  two  table-spoonfuls  of  flour,  according  to  the 
thickness  you  wish  the  gravy  to  be,  into  a  basin,  with  a  ladle- 
fttl  of  the  gravy ;  stir  it  quick ;  add  the  rest  by  degrees,  till  it 
is  all  well  mixed ;  then  pour  it  back  into  a  stew-pan,  and  leave 
it  by  the  side  of  the  fire  to  simmer  for  half  an  hour  longer, 
that  the  thickening  may  thoroughly  incorporate  with  the  gravy„ 
the  stew-pan  being  only  half  covered,  stirring  it  every  now 
and  then.  A  sort  of  scum  will  gather  on  the  top,  which  it  is 
best  not  to  take  off  till  you  are  ready  to  strain  it  through  a  tam- 
mis ;  the  best  way  of  using  which  is  for  two  people  to  twist  it 
contrary  ways :  this  is  a  much  better  way  of  straining  than 
through  a  sieve,  and  refines  it  much  more  completely. 

Take  care  it  is  neither  too  pale  nor  too  dark  a  colour :  if  it 
is  not  thick  enough,  let  it  stew  longer,  till  it  is  reduced  to  the 
desired  thickness ;  or  add  a  bit  of  glaze  or  portable  soup  to  it : 
if  it  is  too  thick,  you  may  easily  thin  it  with  a  spoonful  or  twa 
of  warm  broth,  or  water.  When  your  sauce  is  done,  stir  it  in 
the  basin  you  put  it  into  once  or  twice,  while  it  is  cooling. 

Gravy  far  Roast  Meat, 

Most  joints  will  afford  sufficient  trimmii^,  &c.  to  make  half 
a  pint  of  plain  gravy,  which  you  may  colour  with  a  few  drops 
of  browning ;  for  those  that  do  not,  about  half  an  hour  before 
you  think  the  meat  will  be  done,  mix  a  salt- spoonful  of  salt» 
with  a  full  quarter  pint  of  boiling  water ;  drop  this  by  degrees 


20Q  ©0.MB8TIC  qqoK^liT. 

on  the  brown  parts  of  the  joint ;  set  a  dish  under  to  catch  it^ 
(the  meat  will  soon  brown  again  j)  set  it  by ;  as  it  cools,  the 
fat  will  settle  on  the  surface ;  when  the  meat  is  ready ,  remove 
this,  and  warm  i^  the  gravy,  and  pour  it  into  the  dish. 

The  common  method  is, .  when  the  meat  is  in  the  dish  yoa 
intend  to  send  it  up  in,  to  inix  half  a  tea-spoonful  of  salt  in 
a  quarter  pint  of  boiling  water,  and  to  drop  some  of  this  over 
the  corners  and  underside  of  the  meat,  and  to  pour  the  rest 
thrqu|^  the  hole  the  spit  came  out  of,  -  and  some  pierce  the  in- 
ferior parts  of  the  joint  with  a  sharp  skew^. 

Gravy  for  bailed  Meat. 

You  may  make  this  with  parings  and  trimmings,  or  pour 
from  a  quarter  to  half  a  pint  of -the  liquor  in  w^ich  the  meat  was 
boiled,  into  the.  dish  with  it,  and  pierce  the  inferior  past  of 
the  joint  with  a  sharp  skewer. 

Feal  Gravy. 

About  three  pounds  of  the  nut  of  the  leg  of  veal,  cut  into 
half  pound  slices,  with  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  ham  in  small 
dice;  proceed  as  directed  for  the  beef  gravy,  but  watch  the, 
time  of  putting  in  the  water ;  if  this  is  poured  in  too  soon,  the 
ffravy  will  not  have  its  true  flavour ;  if  it  be  let  alone  till  the 
meat  sticks  too  much  to  the  pan^  it  will  catch  too  brown  a 
colour. 

A  Gravy  without  Meat* 

Put  k  glass  of  small  beer,  a  glass  of  water,  some  pe^^r, 
salt,  lemon  peel  grated,  a  bruised  clove  or  two,  and  a  spoon- 
ful of  walnut  pickle^  or  mushroom  catsup,  into  a  basin.  Slice 
an  onion,  flour  and  fry  it  in  a  piece  of  butter  till  it  is  brown. 
Then  turn  all  the  above  into  a  small  tosser  with  the  onion,  and 
simmer  it  covered  twenty  minutes.  Strain  it  off  for  use^  and. 
when  cold  take  off  the  &t. 

A  rich  Gravy  ^ 

Cut  beef  into  thin  slices,  according  to  the  quantity  want-, 
ed  ;  slice  onions  thin,  and  flour  both  ;  fry  them  of  a  light  pale 
brown,  but  don't  on  any  account  suffer  them  to  get  black  :  put 
them  into  a  stew-pan^  pour  boiling  water  on  the  browning  in 


BROTHS,  SOUP8»  ORAVIBS,  ANP  SAUCBS.  dflTL 

tbe  fiyiDg«p«i»  boil  it  up,  aod  pour  on  the  meat;  Pot  to  it  b 
boBch  of  panley,  tbyme^  fOid  flavory,  a  smaJI  bit  of  knotted 
naijoram,  the  same  of  taragon,  aonie  mace,  bcrrtetof  allapioe^ 
whole  black  peppers,  a  clove  or  two,  and  a  bit^if  ham/or  gua^' 
mon  of  bacon.  Simmer  till  you  have  extracted  all  the  juices 
of  the  meat ;  and  be  sure  to  akioft  t|^  Biowent  it  boils,  and 
often  after.  If  for  a  hare,  or  stewed  &h,  anchovy  shoold'  be 
added. 

Mutton  Gravy,  for  Vfnison  or  Hare. 

The  best  gravy  for  venison  is  that  made  with,  the  trinb* 
mings  of  the  joiot:  if  this  is  aU  used,  and  ywi  have  no  un-* 
dressed  venison,  cut  a  scxag  0f  mutton  in  pieoes,  broil  it  a 
little  brown,  then  put  it  into  a  dean  stew-pan,  with  a  quart  of 
boiling  water,  cover  it  close^  and  let  it.  simmer  gendy  for  an 
bonr:  now  uncover  the  stew-pan^  and  let  it  reduce  to  three  > 
quarters  of  a  pint,  pour  it  through  a  hair  sieve,  take  the  fiit 
off,  and  send  it  up  in  a  boat  It  is  only  to  he  seasoned  with  a. 
little  salt,  that  it  may  not  overpower  the  natural  flavour  of  the 
meat.     You  may  colour  it  with  a  very  little  of  btbwning. 

Graioy  far  a  Fowl  when  there  is  no  Meat  to  make  it  of* 

Wash  the  feet  nicely,  and  cut  them  and  the  neck  small; . 
simmer  them  with  a  little  bread  browned,  a  slice  of  onion,  a 
bit  of  parsley  and  thyme,  some  pepper  and  salt,  and  the  liver 
a^- gizzard,  in  a  quarter  ^f  a  pint  of  water,  till  half  wasted. 
Take  out  the  liver,  bruise  it,  and  strain  the  liquor  to  it  Then 
thicken  it  with  flour  and  butter,  and  add  a  tea-spoonful  of 
mushroom  catsup,  and  it  will  be  very  good. 

Gravy  to  make  Mutton  eat  like  Veni$on, 

Pick  a  very  stale  woodcock  or  snipe,  cut  it  to  pieces  (but  > 
first  take  out  the  bag  fttim  the  entraila>)  and  simmer  with  as". 
much  unseasoned  meatpgravy  as  you  wilLwaot.  Stnun  it>  and'i' 
serve  in  the  dish. 

Strang  Phh  Graay. 

Skin  two  or  three  eels,  or  some  flounders ;  gut  and:  wash 
them  very  clean ;  cut  them  into  small  pieces,  and  put  them  intn 
a.sance^pan.    Cover  them  with  water^  and  add  a  little  crust  of 


2W2'  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

bread  toasted  brown/ two  blades  of  mace,  some  whole  pepper^ 
sweet  herbs,  a  piece  of  lemon  peel,  an  anchovj  or  two,  and  a 
tea^poonfdl  of  horse-radish.  Cover  close,  and  'simmer ;  add 
a  bit  of  batter  and  flour,  and  boil  with  the  above. 

Savamy  Jel^y  to  put  over  cold  Pies, . 

Make  it  of  a  small  bare  knuckle  of  leg  of  shoulder  of  veal, ' 
or  a  piece  of  scrag  of  that  or  mutton ;  or,  if  the  pie  be  of  fowl 
or  rabbit,  the  carcases,  necks,  and  heads,  added  to  any  piece 
of  meat,  will  be  sufficient,  observing  to  give  consistence  by 
cow-heel  or  shanks  of  mutton.  Put  the  meat,  a  slice  of  lean 
ham  or  bacon,  a  fj^got  of  different  herbs,  two  Uades  of  mace, 
an  onion  or  two,  a  small  bit  of  lemon  peel,  and  a  tea-spoonful 
of  Jamaica  pepper  bruised,  and  the  same  of  whole  pepper,  and 
three  pints  of  water,  in  a  stew-pot  that  shuts  very  close.  As 
soon  as  *\  boils,  skim  it  wdl^  and  let  it  simmer  very  slowly  till 
quite  strong ;  strain  itj  and  when  cold  take  off  the  fat  with  a 
spoon  first,  and  then,  to  remove  every  particle  of  grease,  lay 
a  dean  piece  of  cap  or  blotting  paper  on  it.  When  cold,  if 
not  dear,  boil  it  a  few  minutes  with  the  whites  of  two  eggs, 
(but  don't  add  the  sediment,)  and  pour  it  through  a  nice  sieve, 
with  a  napkin  in  it,  which  has  been  dipped  in  boiling  water,  to 
prevent  waste. 

Jelly  to  cover  cold  Fish. 

Clean  a  maid»  and  put  it  into  three  quarts  of  water,  with  a 
calf's  foot,  or  cow-heel,  a  stick  of  horse-radish,  an  onion,  three 
blades  of  mace,  some  white  pepper,  a  piece  of  lemon  peel,  and 
a  good  slice  of  lean  gammon.  Stew  until  it  will  jelly ;  strain 
it  off:  when  cold  remove  every  bit  of  fat ;  take  it  up  from  the 
sediment,  and  boil  it  with  a  glass  of  sherry,  the  whites  of  four 
or  five  eggs,  and  a  piece  of  lemon.  Boil  without  stirring ;  and 
after  a  few  minutes,  set  it  by  to  stand  half  an  hour,  and  strain 
it  through  a  bag,  or  sieve,  with  a  cloth  in  it.  Cover  the  fish 
with  it  when  cold. 

Melted  Butter. 

Melted  butter  is  so  simple  and  easy  to  prepare,  it  is  a  mat- 
ter of  general  surprise,  that  what  is  done  so  often,  in  every 
English  kitchen,  is  so  seldom  done  right    Foreigners  may 


BROTHS,  SOUPS^  GRAVIB8,  AND  8AVCES.  90S 

veil  say,  that  although  we  have  only  oneiani^  for  TegetaUes* 
tish,  fowl,  flesh,  &c.  we  hardly  ever  make  that  good.  It 
is  spoiled  Dine  times  out  of  ten,  more  from  idleness,  than  from 
Ignorance, — and  rather  because  the  cook  won't  than  because  she 
can't  do  it,  which  can  only  be  the  case  whan  housdieepers  will 
not  allow  butter  to  do  it  with. 

Good  melted  butter  cannot  be  made  with  mere  flqur  and 
water ;  there  must  be  a  full  and  proper  proportion  of  butter. 
As  it  must  be.  always  on  the  table,  .and  is  the  foundation  of 
almost  all  our  English  sauces,  we  have  written  a  receipt, 
which  if  the  cook  will  carefully  observe,  she  will  constantly* 
succeed  in  giving  satisfaction. 

Keep  a  pint  8tew*pan  for  this  purpose  only. 

Cut  two  ounces  of  butter,  into  little  bits,.  Aat  it  may  melt  i 

more  easOy,  and  mix  more  readily ;  put  it  into  the  stew*pan  with 
a  large  tea-spoonful  of  flour^.  and  two  table-spoonfttls  of  milk. 
When  thoroughly  mi^ed,  add  six  table-spoonfula  of  water; 
hold  it  over  the  &re,  and  sliake  it  round  every  minute,  (all  the  • 
while  the  same  way,)  till  it  just  begins  to; simmer,  then  let  it 
stand  quietly  and  boil  up.  It  should  be  of  the  thickness  of 
good  cream. 

This  is  the  best  ^way  of  preparing  melted  batter :  milk 
mixes  with  the  butter  much  more  easily  and  more  intimately 
than  water  alone  can  be  made  to  do.  This  is  of  a  proper  thick* 
ness  to  be  mixed  at  table  with  flavouring  essences,  anchovy, 
mushroom,  or  cavice,  &c.  If  made  merely  to  pour  over  vege-» 
tables,  add  a  little  more  milk  to  it.  If  the  butter  oils,  put  a  ' 
spoonful  of  cold  water  to  it,  and  stir  it  with  a  spoon ;  if  it  is 
very  much  oiled,  it  miist  be  poured  backwards  and  forwards 
from  the  stew-pan  to  the  -sauce-boat  till  it  is  right  again. 

Melted  butter  made  to  be  mixed  with  flavouring .  essences, . 
catsups,  &c.  should  be  of  the  thickness  of  light  batter,  that  • 
it  may  adhere  to  the  fish,  &a 

Clarified  Byfter,    .   . 

Put  the  butter  in  a  nice  dean  stew-pan,  over  a  very  clear 
slow  fire,  watch  it,  and  when  it  is  melted  carefully  skim  off  the 
buttermilk,  &c.  which  will  swim  on  the  top ;  let  it  stand  a 
■\inttte  or  two,  for  the  impurities  to  sink  to  the  bottom ;  then 


i64  '  -      DOMESTIC  COOKBKY. 

pour  the  clear  batt^  tlnough  a  sieve,  into  a  dean  baBin^  kavid^ 
the  sedimenf  at  the  bottom  Of  the  stew-pan. 

Butter  thus  purified,  will  be  as  sweet  as  marrow ;  a  very- 
useful  covering  for  potted  meats,  &c.  and  fbr  frying  fish,  equal 
to  the  finest  Florence  oil,  fer  which  purpose  it  is  commonly  used 
by  Catholics,  and  those  whose  religious  tenets  will  not  allow 
them  to  eat  viands  fried  in  animal  oil. 

German  Method  of  cUwifying  and  prtiernng  Fresh  Butter. 

..  A  valuable  article,  the  original  communication  of  an  ingeni* 
o«8  tcavdler,  who  resided  many  years  in  Germany.     'The 
peculiar  advantage  of  clarified  butter,*  says  this  gentleman, 
'though  but  little  known  in  England,  is  unequalled  for  moat 
culinary  purposes,  fiir  frying,  and  for  general  use  in  long  sea- 
voyages,  where  no  fresh  butter  is  to  be  had.     Indeed  this  puri- 
fied butter  is  equal  to  the  best  virgih  oik  of  Florence,  Aix,  or 
Lucca,  for  trying  in  perfection.     At  Viennia,  and  in  many 
other  paru  of  Germany,  it  i*  sold  in  all  the  shops.    The  best 
is  purified  at  the  dairies,  during  the  cheapest  season,  mnd  sent 
tb  market  in  barrels  and  tubs ;  it  U  then  clarified.    Set  a  large 
clean  tinned  copper  vessel  on  a  trivet,  over  a  charcoal  fire ;  and 
put  in  the  new  butter,  before  it  has  taken  any  ill  taste,  but  not 
in  large  portions  at  a  time.    With  the  quantity  of  about  fifty 
pounds,  add  a  large  onion,  peded^aud  cut  crossway.    The 
whole  must  be  chmdy  watched,  and  kept  skimming  the  mo- 
ment it  begins  to  boil ;  and  the  fire  then  slackened,  that  it  may 
only  simmer  for  five  minutes ;  after  which,  if  it  cannot  be  sud- 
denly removed,  the  fire  t6  be  immediately  extinguished.     The 
omon  then  taken  out,  the  butter  to  be  left  standing  till  every 
impurity  sinks  to  die  bottom ;  as  all  that  has  not  risen  to  the 
skimmer  never  fritk  doing.    Large  tin  canisters,  stone  jars, 
or  wooden  veeseb  niade  air-tight,  holding  about  fifty  pounds 
each,  should  receive  the  liquid  butter,  and  be  kept  closely 
oovered  up  for  use.    This  butter  should  be  constantly  taken 
out  as  it  is  waiAed,  with  a  wooden  spoon ;  neither  the  hand, 
nor  any  metal,  ever  auftred  to  tooeh  it»* 

Burnt  Butter, 

Put  two  ounces  of  ftiesh  butler  into  a  small  l^ing^pan; 
when  it  becomes  a  dark  brown  colour,  add  to  it  a  table-spoon- 


BROTHS,  &OVPS»  6RATIB8,  iIND  SAUCES.  WS 

fill  9Ad  A  half  of  gobd  Tinegar,  and  a  fittle  pepp^  and  aalt.-f— 
This  is  used  as  sauce  for  boiled  fish,  or  poached  e|^.. 

Oiled  Butter. 

Put  two  ounces  of  fresh  butter  into  a  sauce-pan,  set  it  at  a 
dGstance  from  the  fire,  so  that  it  may  melt  gradually,  till  it 
comes  to  an  oil,  and  pour  it  off  quietly  from  the  dregs. 

This  will  supply  the  place  of  olive  oil,  and  by  some  is  pre« 
itierred  to  it,  either  for  salads,  or  frying. 

Parsley  and  Butter^ 

Wash  some  parsley  very  clean,  and  pick  it  carefully  leaf  by 
leaf;  put  a  tea-spoonful  of  salt  into  half  a  pint  of  boiling  water> 
boil  the  parsley  about  ten  minutes,  drain  it  on  a  sieve,  mince  i^ 
quite  fine,  and  then  bruise  it  to  a  pulp. 

The  delicacy  and  excellence  of  this  elegant  and  innocent 
relish,  depends  upon  the  parsley  being  minced  very  fine ;  put 
it  into  a  sauce-boat,  and  mix  with  it  by  degrees  about  half  a 
pint  of  good  melted  butter,  only  do  not  put  so  much  flour  to 
it,  as  the  parsley  will  add  to  its  thickness :  never  pour  parsley 
and  butter  over  boiled  Aings,  biit  ^nd  it  up  in  a  b6at. 

Qodwherty  Saute. 

Top  and  tail  them  close,  with  a  p^Eu^  of  st^issars,  and  scald 
Half  a  pfnt  of  gfeeh  gooseberries,  drain  them  on  a  hair  sieve, 
and  ^ut  Aetn  hito  half  a  pint  of  melted  butter. 

SomVad^  grated  ginger  and  lemoti  peel;  and  the  Frehcfi, 
lAinced  fennel ;  others  send  up  ihe  goosebeirrieis  whole,  6t  masli- 
ed,  wi(£out  an^  butter,  &c. 

*  •         -  • 

Apple  Sauce. 

Pare  and  core  thre^  ^ood  sized  baking  apples,  put  them 
hiU^ti  HfellAifmeA  pkn^s^^i^pBXi,  wi^h  tw6  t^le-spoonfuls  of 
cM  #ak^ ;  covei  th<l  saiM£-|Mm  cb^;  and  set  if  e^  a  triv^ 
dv^  a  sWv^  fire^i  e<«]^l«  df  h^s  before  dinner,-  sbttl^  a^i^tes 
will  take  a  long  time  stewing,  otfteril  #ill  be  resfcly  in  a?  ^iu 
ter  of  an  hour :  when  the  apples  are  done  enough,  pour  off  the 
water,  let  them  stand  a  fbw  mittu^es  to  get  dry ;  then  beat 
thbtii  lip  ^i^H  a'  fef^k,  ^h  a  bit?  ^  butter  aboiit  as  %  aai  a  nut- 
Md'4l  tiSH^Ipoi^^  of  pdwd^i^  mgKh 
10  Sm 


t 


266  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

Some  add  lemon  peel^  grated,  or  minced  fine.;  others  boil  s^ 
bit  with  the-apples. 

Fennel  and  Butter  for  Mackerel,  S^c. 

This  is  prepared  in  the  same  manner  as  parsley  and  batter, 
described  before. 

For  mackerel  sauce,  or  boiled  soles^  &c.  some  people  take 
equal  parts  of  fennel  and  parsley ;  others  add  a  sprig  of  mint^ 
or  a  couple  of  young  onions  minced  very  fine. 

Mackerel  Roe  Sauce. 

Boil  the  roes  of  mackerel,  (soft  roes  are  best,)  bruise  them 
with  a  spoon  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  beat  up  with  a  very  little 
pepper  and  salt,  and  some  fennel  and  parsley  boiled  and  chop- 
ped very  fine,  mixed  with  almost  half  a  pint  of  thin  melted 
butter. 

Mushroom  catsup,  walnut  pickle,  or  soy,  may  be  added. 

Egg  Sauce. 

This  agreeable  accompaniment  to  roasted  poultry,  or  salted 
fish,  is  made  by  putting  three  eggs  into  boiling  water,  and 
boiling  them  for  about  twelve  minutes,  when  they  will  be  hard : 
put  them  into  cold  water  till  you  want  them.  This  will  make 
the  yolks  firmer,  and  prevent  their  surface  turning  black,  and 
you  can  cut  them  much  neater :  use  only  two  of  the  whites  ; 
cut  the  whites  into  small  dice,  the  yolks  into  bits  about  a  quar.* 
ter  of  an  inch  square,  put  them  into  a  sauce-boat,  pour  to  them 
half  a  pint  of  melted  burter,  and  stir  them  together.  The 
melted  batter  for  egg  sauce  should  be  made  rather  thin. 

Plum  Pudding  Sauce. 

A  glass  of  sherry,  half  a  glass  of  brandy,  and  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  pounded  lump  sugar,  (a  very  little  grated  lemon 
peel  is  sometimes  added,)  in  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  thick  melted 
batter :  grate  nutmeg  on  the  top. 

Anchovy  Sauce. 
Pound  three  anchovies  in  a  mortar  with  a  little  bit  of  but- 
ter, rub  it  through  fL  double  hair  sieve  with  the  back  of  a  wood* 


BBOTHS,  SOUPS,  GRAVIES,  AND  SAUCES.  SM7 

cn  spoon,  and  stir  it  into  almost  half  a  pint  of  melted  butter.' 
To  this  many  cooks  add  lemon  juice  and  cayenne. 

Keep  your  anchovies  well  covered.  First  tie  down  your  jar 
"with  bladder  moistened  with  vinegar,  and  then  wiped  dry, — tie 
leather  ^er  that :  when  you  open  a  jar,  moisten  the  bladder, 
and  it  will  oorae  off  easily  :  as  soon  as  you  have  taken  out  the 
fish,  replace  the  coverings,— 'the  air  soon  rusts  and  spoils  an- 
chovies. 

Garlic  Sauce, 

Pound  two  cloves  of  garlic  with  a  piece  of  fresh  butter 
about  as  big  as  a  nutmeg:  rub  it  through  a  double  hair  sieve, 
and  stir  it  into  half  a  pint  of  melted  butter,  or  beef  gravy. 

Lemon  Sauce, 

Pare  a  lemon,  and  cut  it  into  slices  twice  as  thick  as  a  half- 
crown  piece ;  divide  these  into  dice,  and  put  them  into  a  quar- 
ter of  a  pint  of  melted  butter. 

Some  cooks  mince  a  bit  of  the  lemou  peel  (pared  very  thin) 
very  fine,  and  add  it  to  the  above. 

Caper  Sauce, 

To  make  a  quarter  pint,  take  a  table-spoonful  of  capers, 
and  two  tea-spoonfuls  of  -  vinegar. 

The  present  fashion  of  cutting  capers,  is  to  mince  one- 
third  of  them  very  fine,  and  divide  the  others  in  half;  put  them 
into  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  melted  butter,  or  good  thickened 
gravy ;  stir  them  the  same  way  as  you  did  the  melted  butter,  or 

it  will  oil. 

Some  boil,  and  mince  fine  a  few  leaves  of  parsley,  or  cher- 
vil, and  add  these  to  the  sauce;  others  tlie  juice  of  half  a 
Seville  orange,  or  lemon. 

*  Keep  the  caper  bottle  very  closely  corked,  and  do  not.  use 
any  of  the  caper  liquor;  if  the  capers  are  not  well  covered  with 
it,  they  will  immediately  spoil.  It  is  an  excellent  ingredi- 
ent in  hashes,  8tc,  The  Dutch  use  it  as  a  fish  sauce,  mixing 
it  with  melted  butter. 

Mock  Caper  Sauce. 

Cut  some  pickled  green  peas,  French  beans,  gherkins,  or 
nasturtiums,  into  bits  the  size  of  capers ;  put  them  into  half  a 


Mtt  DOMESTIC  COOKBBT. 

piQtof  meltf d  butter,  with  two  tea-spooiifuk  of  lemaa  |aioe^ 
or  nice  yinegar. 

Oyiter  Sftifce^ 

.     Choose  plump  and  juicy  natives  for  tibi$  purpose;  dibn't  take 
them  out  of  their  shell  till  jou  put -them  into  the  stew*pan. 

To  ipake  good  03r8ter  aauce  for  half  a  dozen  hearty  Mi- 
eaters,  you  cannot  have  less  than  three  or  four  dozen  oysteTSu 
Save  their  liquor,  strain  it,  and  put  it  and  them  into  a  stew* 
pan  ;  as  soon  as  they  boil,  and  the  fish  plump,  take  them  oflT 
Ae  fi*e,  and  pour  the  contents  of  the  stew-pari  ittta  a  sieve 
over  a  dear  basin,  wash  the  stew-pan*  out  with  hot  water,  and 
put  into  it  the  strained  liquor,  with  abo^t  an  equal  qtiantity  oT 
mUk,  and  about  two  ounces  and  a  half  of  butter,  with  whidi 
you  have  well  rubbed  a  large  table-spoonful  of  flour ;  give  it  a 
boil  up,  and  pour  it  tlirough  a  sieve  into  a  basin,  (that  the 
sauce  may  be  quite  smooth,)  and  then  back  again  into  tfce  sauce<^ 
pan ;  now  shave  the  oysters,  and  put  in  only  the  soft  paft  of 
them,  .(if  they  are  very  large  cut  them  !n  half,)  and  set  them 
by  the  side  of  the  fire  to  keep  hot :  if  they  boil  after,  they  will 
become  hard. 

If  you  have  not  liquor  enough,  add  a  little  melted  butter, 
or  cream,  or  milk  beat  up  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  (this  must 
not  be  put  in  till  the  sauce  is  done.)  Some  barbarous  cooks  add 
pepper,  or  mace,  the  juice  or  peel  of  a  lemon,  horseradish, 
essence  of  anchovy,  cayenne,  &c. 

It  will  very  much  heighten  the  flavour  of  this  sauce,  to 
pound  the  soft  part  of  half  a  dozen  (unboiled)  oysters,  rub  it 
through  a  hair  sieve,  and  then  atir  it  into  the  sauce. .  This  essence 
of  oyster  (and  for  some  palates  a  few  grains  of  cayenne)  is  the 
only  addition  we  recommend. 

Preserved  Oysters,  or  Oyster  Powder, 

Open  the  oysters  carefully,  so  as  not  to  cut  them  except  in 
dividing  the  gristle  which  attaches  the  shells ;  put  diem  into  a 
mortar,  and  when  you  have  got  as  many  as  you  can  convenient- 
ly pound  at  once,  add  about  two  drams  of  salt  to  a  dozen  oysters; 
pound  them,  and  rub  them  thfough  the  back  of  a  hair  sieve, 
and  put  them  into  a  mortar  again,  with  as  much  flour  (which 
has  been  previously  thoroughly  dried)  as  will  make  them  into  a 


BROTHS,  SeVVI,  aBAVXlS,'AND  SAUCES.  29d 

foB  it  vmt  severiil  tines,  and  ljfidy»  Sonr  it  and 
voll  it  out  the  thickness  of  a  half  trawt^,  afd  divide  i| 
pieces  about  an  inch  square,  lay  them  In  si  Dutch  ^yfim 
Aey  will  dry  so.geittly  aa  not  Co  get  bwrptf ;  tutn  tbfl« 
evoy  half  hour,  and  when  the^r  begin  Uk  dry,  cnaroble  ihtrac 
iSbtey  will  take  $hoiat  foar  hours  to  dFy,-r-fthe^  poUnd  thens  fine^ 
silt  them  and  put  into  bottles,  and  seal  them  aT«% 

To  make  ludf  a  pint  of  sauoe,  put  one  ooi|ce  flf  btttt«r  in^ 
a  atew-pan,  with  three  drams  of  oyster  powder,  and  si^  ilablfK 
spoonfuls  of  milk ;  set  it  on  a  slow  fire,  stir  it  till  it  boil«,  ap4 
season  it  with  salt* 

This  powder,  if  made  widi  plump  juicy  natiyQS>  i^iH 
abound  with  the  Aivour  of  the  fish ;  and  if  doariy  oarfced,  and 
kept  in  a  dry  place,  will  remain  ^ood  for  ^aiae  time.  •  ^ 

This  extract  is  a  welcome  sucqedaneua  whili^  oyat^r^  ^^^ 
cut  of  season;  and  in  such  inland  parts  as  seldosa  l^va  APy^  is 
a  Taluable  addition  to  the  list  of  fish  sauces :  it  is  eq[uaBy  gAO^ 
with  boiled  fi>wl,  or  rump  steaky— «and  sprinkled  on  baead  0A 
butter  mdLes  a  veiy  good  sandwich,  and  is  eapeoiaUy  w«Kt|iy 
ihe  notice  of  ceuntry  housekeepers,  and  as  a  store  sauce  for 
the  ariny  and  navy. 

Shrimp  SaufiCs 
Shell  a  pint  of  shrimps,  pidc  them  clean,  w^.tbem,  and 
put  them  into  half  a  pint  of  good  melted  butter. 

'  Same  stew  the  heads  an^  shells  of  the  shrimps,  (with  or 
without  a  Made  of  bruised  n^ace,)  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour, 
and  strain  off  the  liquor  to  mekthe  butter  with,  and  add  a  IM^ 
lemon  juice,  cayenne,  and  essence  of  anchovy,  or  soy,  cavioe» 
&c.  but  the  flavour  of  the  shrimp  is  so  delicate,  it  will  be 
overcome  by  any  of  those  additions. 

JLobgter  Sauce. 

You  must  have  a  hen  lobster,  on  account  of  the  live  spawn ; 
some  fishmongers  have  a  cruel  custpm  of  tearing  this  firom  the 
fish,  before  they  are  boiled  ;  lift  up  the  tail  of  the  lobster,  and 
see  that  it  has  not  been  robbed  of  its  ^gs ;  the  goodness  of 
yomr  sauce  depends  upon  its  having  a  full  share  of  the  spawn 
in  it,  to  which  it  owes  not  merely  its  brilliant  red  colour,  but 
tfae.finest  part  of  its  flay  our. 


276  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

To  be  8ure  the  lobster  is  fresh^  get  a  live  one  if  yoa  eav^ 
and  boil  it :  pick  out  the  spawn  anii  the  red  coral  into  a  mor« 
tar,  add  to  it  half  an  ounce  of  butter,  pound  it  quite  smooth, 
and  rub  it  through  a  hair  sieve  with  the  back  of  a  wooden 
spoon ;  cut  the  meat  of  the  lobster  into  small  squares,  or  pull  it  to 
pieces  with  a  fork,  put  the  pounded  spawn  into  as  much  melted 
butter  as  you  think  will  do,  and  stir  it  together  till  it  is  thorough- 
ly mixed ;  now  put  to  it  the  meat  of  the  lobster,  and  warm  it 
on  the  tire ;  take  care  it  does  not  boil,  which  will  spoil  its  com- 
plexion, and  its  brilliant  red  colour  will  immediately  fade. 

The  above  is  a  very  easy  and  excellent  manner  of  making 
this  sauce. 

Some  use  strong  beef  or  veal  gravy  instead  of  melted  but- 
ter, adding  anchovy,  cayenne,  catsup,  cavice,  Iraion  juice  or 
pickle,  or  wine,  &c. 

Save  a  little  of  the  inside  red  coral  spawn,  and  rub  it 
through  a  sieve  (without  butter:)  it  is  a  very  ornamental  gar- 
nish to  sprinkle  over  fish ;  and  if  the  skin  is  broken,  (which 
will  sometimes  happen  to  the  most  careful  cook,  when  there  is 
a  large  dinner  to  dress,  and  many  other  things  to  attend  to,) 
you  will  find  it  a  convenient  and  elegant  veil,  to  conceal  yoor 
misfortune  from  the  prying  eyes  of  piscivorous  gourmaiuU. 

Various  methods  have  been  tried  to  preserve  lobsters,  and 
lobster  spawn,  for  a  store  sauce.  The  live  spawn  may  be  kept 
some  time  in  strong  salt  and  water,  or  in  an  ice-house.  The 
following  process  might,  perhaps,  preserve  it  longer:— Put  it 
into  a  sauce-pan  of  boiling  water,  with  a  large  spoonful  of  salt 
in  it,  and  let  it  boil  quick  for  five  minutes ;  then  drain  it  on  a 
hair  sieve,  spread  it  out  thin  on  a  plate,  and  set  it  in  a  Dutdi 
oven  till  it  is  thoroughly  dried,  grind  it  in  a  clean  mill, 
and  packit  closely  in  well-stopped  bottles. 

Sauce,  for  Lobtt^f  tfc. 

Bruise  the  yolks  of  two  hard  boiled  c^gs  with  the  back  of 
a  wooden  spoon,  or  rather  pound  them  in  a  mortar,  with  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  water,  and  the  soft  inside  and  the  spawn  of  the 
lobster,  rub  them  quite  smooth,  with  a  tea^spoonful  of  made 
mustard,  two  table-spoonfuls  of  salad  oil,  and  five  of  vinegar ; 
season  it  with  a  very  little  Cayenne  pepper  and  some  salt. 

To  this,  elder  or  tarragon  vinegar,  or  anchovy  essence,  is 
occasionally  added. 


BR0THS/80UPS,  GRAVIES,  AND  SAUCES.  271 

Liver  and  Parsley  Sauce, 

Wash  the  liver  (it  must  be  perfectly  fresh)  of  a  fowl  or 
rabbit,  and  boil  it  five  minutes  in  five  table -spoonfuls  of  water  ; 
chop  it  fine ;  or  pound  or  bruise  it  in  a  small  quantity  of  the 
fiquor  it  was  boiled  in,  and  rub  it  through  a  sieve :  wash  about 
one-third  the  bulk  of  parsley  leaves,  put  them  on  to  boil  in  a  little 
boilin^^  water,  with  a  tea> spoonful  of  salt  in  it ;  lay  it  on  a  hair 
sieve  to  drain,  and  mince  it  very  fine ;  mix  it  with  the  liver, 
and  put  it  into  a  quarter  pint  of  melted  butter,  and  warm  it 
up  ;  do  not  let  it  boil. 

Lemon  and  Liver  Sauce. 

Pare  off  the  rind  o£  a  lemon,  or  of  a  Seville  orange,  as  thin 
as  possible,  so  as  not  to  cut  off  any  of  the  white  with  it ;  now 
cat  off  all  the  white,  and  cut  the  lemon  into  slices,  about  as 
thick  as  a  couple  of  half-crowns ;  pick  out  the  pips,  and  divide 
the  slices  into  small  squares ;  add  these,  and  a  little  of  the 
peel  minced  very  fine,  to  the  liver,  prepared  as  directed  above, 
and  put  them  into  the  melted  butter,  and  warm  them  together, 
but  do  not  let  them  boil. 

Some  cooks,  instead  of  pounding,  mince  the  liver  very  fine 
(with  half  as  much  bacon,)  and  leave  out  the  parsley  ;  others 
add  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  and  some  of  the  peel  grated, 
or  a  tea-spoonful  of  tarragon  or  Chili  vinegar^  a  table-spoon- 
ful of  white  wine,  or  a  little  beaten  mace  or  nutmeg,  or  all- 
spice: if  you  wish  it  a  little  more  lively  on  the  palate,  pound 
a  shalot,  or  a  few  leaves  of  tarragon  or  basil,  with  anchovy  or 
catsup,  or  cayenne. 

Fish  Sauce. 

Two  wine  glasses  of  port,  and  two  of  walnut  pickle  ;  four 
of  mushroom  catsup ;  half  a  dozen  anchovies  pounded,  the 
like  number  of  eschalots  sliced  and  pounded ;  a  table-spoon- 
ful of  soy,  and  half  a  dram  of  Cayenne  pepper :  let  them  sim- 
mer gently  for  ten  minutes,  strain  it,  and  when  cold,  put  it 
into  bottles,  well  corked  and  sealed  over :  it  will  keep  for  a 
considerable  time. 

This  is  commonly,  called  QtftV«  Sauce. 


972  DOMBSTIC  GOOKEEY. 

Lher  Sauce  for  Fish. 
Boil  the  liver  of  the  fish,  and  pound  it  in  a  mortar  with  « 
little  flour  ;  8tir  it  into  some  broth^  or  some  of  the  liquor  the 
fish  was  boiled  in,  or  melted  butter,  parsley,  and  a  few  grains 
of  cayenne,-— a  little  essence  of  anchovy,  or  soy,  or  catsup  ; 
give  it  a  boil  up,  and  rub  it  through  a  sieve :  you  may  add  a 
little  lemon  juice,  or  l^non  cut  in  dice. 

Celery  Sauce,  white. 

Pick  and  wash  two  heads  of  nice  white  cel^,  cut  it  into 
pieces  about  an  inch  long ;  stew  it  in  a  pint  of  water,  and  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  till  the  celery  is  tender.  So  much  depends 
upon  the  age  of  the  celery,  we  cannot  give  any  precise  time  for 
this.  Ypung  fresh-gathered  celery  will  be  enough  in  three 
quartei^s  of  an  hour ;  old  wilt  sometimes  take  twice  as  lon^. 
Roll  an  ounce  o^  butter  with  a  table-rspoonful  of  flour;  add 
this  to  half  a  pint  of  cream,  and  give  it  a  boil  up. 

Celery  Sauce,  Pitr^e,  fdr  hailed  Turkey,  Veal,  Fowls,  S^c. 

Cut  small  half  a  dozen  heads  of  nice  white  celery,  that  is 
quite  clean,  and  two  onions  sliced ;  put  in  a  two  quart  stew- 
pan,  with  a  smalt  lump  of  butter ;  sweat  them  over  a  slow  fire 
till  quite  tender,  then  put  in  two  spoonfuls  of  flour,  half  a 
|ttnt  of  water  (or  beef  or  veal  btoth,)  salt  and  pepper,  and  a 
little  cream  or  milk ;  boil  it  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  and  pass 
it  through  a  fine  bair  sieve  with  the  back  of  a  spoon. 

If  you  wish  for  celery  sauce,  when  celery  is  not  in  season, 
a  qu^ter  of  a  dram  of  celery  seed,  or  a  little  essence  of  celery, 
will  impregnate  half  a  pint  of  sauce  with  a  sufficient  portion  of 
the  flavour  of  the  vegetable. 

Green,  0r  Sorrel  Sauce* 

Wash  and  clean  a  large  ponrifet  of 'sorrel,  put  it  into  a  stew- 
pan  thai  wHl  just  hold  it,  with  a  bit  of  butter  the  size  of  an 
egg,  tovet  it  close,  set  it  ovek*  a  sldw  fIVe  $o/it  a  quarter  of  an 
h6ur,  pass  the  sorrel  witli  the  back  of  a  "v^ckiden  ^poon  tihrougfa  a 
hair  sieve,  seadon  T^ith  pepper,  salt,  and  a  small  pinch  of 
powdered  sugar,  make  it  hot,  and  serve  up  under  lamb,  ^i^,- 
sweetbreads,  &c.  &c.  Cayexine,  nutmeg,And  lekiion  jutcei-  are 
sometimes  added. 


BROTHS,  SOXTPS,  ORAVISS,  AND  8AI7CB8,  27S^ 

Tamatat  or  Love-appk  Sduce. 

Have  twelve  or  fifteen  tomatas,  ripe  and  red ;  take  off  the 
stalk ;  cat  them  in  half;  squeeze  them  enough  to  ''get  all 
the  water  and  seeds  out :  put  them  into  a  8tew-pan»  with  a  cap« 
aicum,  and  two  or  three  table-spoonfuls  of  beef  gravy ;  set 
them  on  a  slow  stove  for  an  hour^  or  till  properly  melted;  then 
rub  them  through  a  tammis  into  a  dean  stew-pan,  with  a  little 
white  pepper  and  salt,  and  let  them  simmer  together,  a  few 
ininntes. 

To  the  above  the  French  cooks  add  an  onion  or  eschalot^  a 
clove  or  two,  or  a  little  tarragon  vinegar, 

Moek  Tamata  Sauce, 

The  only  difference  between  this  and  genuine  We-apple 
sauce,  is  the  substitu^ng  the  pulp  of  apple  for  that  ot  tomata, 
colouring  it  with  turmeric,  and  communicating  an  acid  flavour 
to  it  by  vinegar. 

•  ■ 

Shalot  Sauce. 

Take  four  shalots,  and  make  it  in  the  same  manner  as  gar- 
lic sauce. 

Or,  you  may  make  this  sauce  more  extemporaneously,  by 
patting  two  table-spoonfuls  of  shalot  wine,  and  a  sprinkling  of 
pqpper  and  salt,  into  (almost)  half  a  pint  of  thick  melted  butter. 

This  is  an  excellent  sauce  for  chops,  or  steaks.  Many  ire 
very  fond  of  it  with  roasted  or  boiled  meat,  poultry,  &G. 

Shalot  Sauce,  far  haikd  Mutton. 

This  is  a  very  frequent  and  satisfactory  substitute  for 
caper  sauce. 

Mince  four  shalots  very  fine,  and  put  them  into  a  small 
sauce-pan,  with  almost  half  a  pint  of  the  liquor  the  mutton  was 
boiled  in;  let  them  boil  up  for  five  minutes;  then  put  in  a 
table-spoonful  of  vinegtf »  a  qaarter  tea-spoonful  of  pepper,  a 
little  salt,  and  a  bit  of  butter  (as  big  as  a  walnut)  rolled  in 
floor ;  shake  together,  till  it  boils.  ^ 

Some  cooks  add  a  little  fipely  diopped  parsley. 

Young  Onion  Sauce. 

Peel  a  pint  of  button  onions,  and  put  them  in  water  till  you 
want  to  put  them  on  to  boil;  put  them  in  a  stew-pan^  with  a 
10  2n 


274  DOMESTIC  COOKRRT. 

quart  of  cold  water ;  let  them  boil  till  tender ;  they  will  take 
(according  to  their  size  and  age)  from  half  an  hour  to  an  hour. 
You  may  put  them  into  half  a  pint  of  melted  batter. 

Onion  Sauce, 

Those  who  like  the  full  flavour  of  onions,  only  cut  off  the 
Mrings  and  tops  (without  peeling  off  an^  of  the  skins,)  put 
them  into  salt  and  water,  and  let  them  lie  an  hour ;  then  wash 
them,  put  them  into  a  kettle  with  plenty  of  wiater,  and  boil 
them,  till  they  are  tender :  now  skin  them,  pass  them  through 
k  colander,  and  mix  a  little  melted  butter  with  them. 

Some  mix  the  pulp  of  apples,  or  turnips,  with  the  onions  ; 

others  add  mustard  to  tfaetti^ 

,  •  •        »  1 

White  Onion  Sauce, 

The  following  is  a  more  mild  and  delicate  preparation: — 
Take  half  a  dozen  of  the  largest  and  whitest  onions,  (the 
Spanish  are  the  mildest,  but  these  can  only  be  had  from 
August  to  December.)  peel  thetn,  arid  cut  them  in  half,  and 
lay  them  in  a  pan  of  spring  water  for  a  quftrCer  of  an  hour, 
and  then  boil  th^.-m  tender,  which  will  sometimes  take  an  hour; 
drain^  them  well  on  a  hair  sieve,  lay  theOi  on  the  chopping* 
board  and  qhop  and  bruise  them^  put  them  into  a  clean  sauce* 
pan,  with  some  butter  and  flour,  half  a  tea-spoonfdl  of  8alt« 
and  some  cr^wli,  or  good  milk;  stir  it  till  it  boils;  then  rub 
the  whole  through  a  taminis  or  sieve,  adding  cream  or  milk^ 
to  make  it  the  consistence  you  wish. 

This  is  the  usual  sauce  for  boiled  rabbits,  mutton,  or  tripe. 
There  must  be  plenty  of  it ;  the  usual  expresmn  signifies  as 
much,  for  we  say,  smother  them  with  it. 

Brown  Onion  Sauce,  or  Onion  Qravg. 

Peel  and  slice  the  otuons  (some  put  in  aa  equal  quantity  of 
cucumber  or  ctlery )  into  a  quart  stew-pan,  with  an  ounce  of 
butter ;  set  it  on  a  sl<>w  fire,  and  turn  the  onion  about  till  it  is 
very  lightly  browned ;  now  gradually  stir  in  half  an  ounce  of 
flour  ;  add  a  little  broth,  and  a  little  pepper  and  salt;  boil  it  up 
for  a  few  minutes,  add  a  table-spoonful  of  claret,  or  Port  wine, 
s.\u\  t.)e  same  of  mushroom  catsup,  ^you  mav  sharpen  it  with  a 
little  lemon  juice  or  vinegar)  and  mb  it  through  a  tammis,  or 
fine  sieve. 


BROTHS,  ireVPSy  C^AVlBft,  Af^D  SAUOSiS.  196 

If  this  sauce  is  £ot  steaks,  JBhr«d  an  ounce  of  onions,  fry 
dirm  a  niar  brown,  and  put  them  I9  the  sauce  jqvi  have  rubbed 
dsroagh  a  tamioais;  or  spme  v^ryamaU  round  young  silver 
button  oniops,  peeled. and  boiled  tcndeir,  and  put  in  whole  when 
your  sauee  is  doae^  wilLbe  ah  acceptable  addition. 

Spanish  or  Pofti^g^l  Onion  ^^n^f  • 
Thcae  exo^ent  large  and  mild  onions  make  admitable 
9HU(ie ;  as  well  as  being  fi  n^o^t  delicions  food  when  roasted^  an4 
eateo  only  with  pepper,  salt,  and  butter.  The  foUowing  is 
-one  of  the  best  methods  of  preparing  them  for  sanoe.  After 
-xnaating  tbem  till  they  are  somewhat  more  than  half  ^cmm^ 
"pee)  them,  and  Add  some  good  thicken^  gravy  or  ooulis; 
iaeasoit  them  with  salt  and  Cayenne  pepper ;  and,  adding  a  gb^s 
^  aed  Poit,  a  small  quantity  of  powdered  loaf  sugar,  aod 
4he  juice  of  half  a  lempn  for  four  large  onions,  boil  them  till 

tender,  mash  them  up  with  a  little  butter,  and  send  them  to 
^ble  as  sauce  for  whatever  dish  may  be  thought  f^vopeir.    These 

onions  are  not  only  very  delicious,  but  they  are  psirticularly 

salubrious  and  nourishing. 

• 

Sage  and  Onion,  or  Goote-v^f^ng  Same* 
Chop  very  fine  an  ounce  of  onion,  and  half  an  ounce  of 
green  sage  leaves,  put  them  into  a  stew-pan  with  four  spoon- 
ibis  of  water,  simmer  gently  for  tkn  minutes,  then  put  in  a  tea^ 
•poonfbl  of  pepper  and  salt,  and  one  oiinea  of  (ine  bread- 
crumbs ;  mix  well  together ;  then  pour  to  it  li  quarter  of  a  ptnit 
of  (broth,  oir  gravy,  or)  melted  butter,  stir  well  together,  and 
jimmar  it  a  fbw  minutes  longer. 

This  is  a  very  relishing  sauce  for  roast  pdrk,  gees^  or 

ducks ;  or  green  peas  on  maigre  Hays. 

« 

Green  Mint  Smt6€*  .   .. 

Wash  half  a  handful  of  nice  young  ^^di-gathpred  gresn 
mint,  (to  this  some  add  one-third  the  quantity  of  parsley,) 
pick  the  leaves  from  the  stalks,  mince  them  very  fine,  and  put 
them  into  a  sauce-boat;  with  a  tea^spoonful  of  moist  sugar,  and 
four  table-spoonfuls  of  vinegar/ 

This  is  the  usual  accoi^panim^t  to  hot  lamb;  and  an 
equally  agreeable  relish  with  cold  lamb. 


Sr9  DOMESTIC  OOOKBKT. 

Muiktoam  Sauee. 

Piok  and  peel  half  a  pint  of  mashrooms  (tfae.«naller  th^ 
better,)  wash  them  very  clean,  and  put  them  into  a  sauce-pan 
with  half  a  pint  of  veal  gravy  or  milk,  a  little  pepper  and 
salt,  and  an.  ounce  of  butter  rubbed  with  a  taUe'apoonfnl  of 
flour,  stir  them  together,  and  set  them  over  a  gentle  fire,  to 
stew  slowly  till  tender ;  skim  and  strain  it 

It  will  be  a  great  improvement  to  this,  to  add  to  them  the 
jttice  of  half  a  dozen  mushrooms,  prepared  the  day  before,  by 
aprinkling  them  with  salt,  the  same  as  when  you  make  catsup. 

Much  as  we  love  the  flavour  of  mushrooms,  we  must  enter 
ioor  protest  against  their  being  eaten  in  substance,  when  the 
morbid  effects  they  produce  too  often  prove  them  worthy  of  the 
appellations  Seneca  gave  them,  '' Voluptuous  poison, — lethal 
luxury,"  &c.  And  we  caution  those  who  cannot  refrain  fiona 
indulging  their  palate  with  the  seducing  relish  of  this  deceitful 
.fungus,  to  masticate  it  diligently. 

We  do  not  believe  that  mushrooms  are  nutritive;  every  one 

knows  they  are  often  dangerously  indigestible;  therefore  the 

rational  epicure  will  be  content  with  exti'acting  the  flavour  from 

them,  which  is  obtained  in  the  utmost  perfection  by  the  pro« 

cess  of  making  catsup. 

•  .     ■ 

Poor  Mam's  Smiee* 

■  ■  >  . 

Pick  a  handful  of  parsley  leaves  from  the. stalks,  mince 
them  very  fine,  strew  over  a  little  salt ;  dured  fine  half  a  dozen 
young  green  onions,  add  these  to  the  parsley,  and  put  them 
into  a  sauoe-boat,  with  three  table-spoonfuls  of  oil,  and  five  of 
vinegar;  add  some  ground  black  pepper  and  salt ;  stir  together, 
and  send  it  up.  Pickled  French  beans  or  gherkins,  cut  fine, 
may  be  added,  or  a  little  grated  horseradish. 

This  sauce  is  in  much  esteem  in  France,  where  people  of 
taste,  weary  of  rich  dishes,  to  obtain  the  charm  of  variety, 
occasionally  order  the  fiue  of  the  peasant. 

The  Spaniard's  Garlic  Gravy. 

Slice  a  pounded  a  half  of  veal,  or  beef,  pepper  and  salt 
it,  lay  it  in  a  stew-pan  with  a  couple  of  carrots  split,  and  four 
cloves  of  garlic  sliced,  a  quarter  pound  of  sliced  ham,  and  a 
large  spoonful  of  water ;  set  the  sfe^w-pan  over  a  gentle  fire. 


BBOTHS»  80irPS»  OEATIBS,  ▲IfD  8AUCE8.  STT 

and  "watdi  when  the  mett  begins  to  stick  to  the  pan ;  when  it 
does,  tnm  it,  and  let  it  be  very  well  browned,  (bat  take  cM'e  it  ia 
not  at  all  burnt;)  then  dredge  it  with  fiour^  and  pour  in  a  quart 
'9i£  l>roth»  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  a  couple  of  cloves  bruised, 
and.  alioe  in  a  lemon ;  set  it  on  again,  and  let  it  simmer  gently 
for  an  hour  and  a  half  longer ;  then  take  off  the  fat,  and  strain 
the  gravy  from  the  ingredients,  by  pouring  it  through  a  nxp* 
kin,  straining,  and  pressing  it  very  hard. 

Those  lAio  love  garlic,  will  find  it  an  extremely  rich  relish. 

Sauce  far  haHed-TVipe,  Calfs^ad,  or  Caw-heel. 

Garlic  vinegar,  a  table-spoonful;  of  mustard,  brown  sugar^ 
and  black  pepper,  a  tea-spoonful  each ;  stirred  into  half  a  pint 
of  oiled  melted  ]|y tter. 

Sauee  Piquante. 

^  Pound  a  table-spoonfiii  of  capers,  and  one  of  minced  part' 
aley,  as  fine  as  possible ;  then  add  the  yolks  of  three  hard  eggs, 
rub  them  well  together  with  a  table-spoonful  of  mustard;  bone 
six  anchovies,  and  pound  them,  rub  them  through  a  hair  sieve^ 
and  mix  with  two  table-spoonfuls  of  oil,  one  of  vinegar,  one 
of  shalot  ditto,  and  a  few  grains  of  Cayenne  pepper ;  rub  all 
these  well  together  in  a  mortar,  till  thoroughly  incorporated^ 
then  stir  them  into  half  a  pint  of  gravy,  or  melted  butter,  and 
pat  the  whole  through  a  sieve. 

Qerman  HaneradUh  Sauee. 

This  fiunous  sauce,  so  relishing  to  eat  with  roast  or  boiled 
beef.  See.  hot  as  well  as  cold,  is  thus  made:— Take  a  large 
stick  of  horseradish,  quite  fresh  out  of  the  ground;  and,' 
after  washing  and  scraping  it  clean,  and  cutting  away  the  ends 
with  aU  impurities,  grate  it  fine  and  smooth,  on  a  trencher,  by 
means  of  a  large  and  sharp  round  grater :  then,  putting  it  into 
a  sauce-boat  or  tureen  with  a  cover,  add  two  lumps  of  sugar, 
three  table-spoonfuls  of  boiling  broth,  or  even  water,  two  spoon^ 
fuls  of  the  best  vinegar,  and  a  little  salt.  Mix  them  well  toge« 
ther,  till  the  sugar  be  entirely  dissolved  and  completely  incor* 
porated.  This  sauce,  though  immediately  fit  to  eat,  will 
remain  good  two  or  three  weeks,  provided  it  be  kept  closely 
covered. 


ttB  BOMUTTC  COOKERY* 

Sauce  a-Ia  Ravigote. 

Put  a  gill  of  good  broth  or  soup  int;o  a  stew-pan«  witb  half 
a  spoonful  of  yiuegar,  a  little  salt  and  whole  pepper^  and  a  bit 
of  butter  about  the  si^e  of  a  walnut  ipixed  with  flour ;  ^l^en^ 
having  scalded  some  tarra^n,  chervil^  pimpernel,  and  gardeii 
cresses^  £6r  a  minute^  in  boiling  w^ter^  squeeze  them  well^ 
mince  them  very  small,  put  them  into  thq  sauce,  thic|ien  it 
oyer  the  fire,  and  serve  it  up  with  any  dish  that  m^  be  thought 
proper.  Ravigote,  in  French,  signifies  to  enliven  or  revive  ; 
8o  that  it8  inteptipn  may  be  psu^lly  judged  by  the  pame  it 
bears. 

Sauce  a-la  Poivrade. 

Put  into  a  stew-pan  a  piece  of  butter  ab(mt  the  size  of  an 
egg,  with  two  or  three.  fAk^i  OQioiM)  carrots,  and  parsnips,  a 
clove '  of  garU^:,^  twQ  ^balots,  j(wq  cloves,  a  laurel  leaf,  and 
some  thyme  and  basil :  4«t  tjie  wholfi  be  placed  over  t(^e  fire  ti^ 
it  begins  to  brown»  iind  then  put  i^  a  gooil  piuply  of  flou^ 
i|^j;;(j^ed  with  agla3S  pf  re<^  wine^  about  a^  much  water^  «Dd  « 
^pqonful  of  yinegAT,  Wheip  it  l^^s  bpil/9d  half  fn  hf>^T,  sUm 
if^  9o4  pass  it  through  a  siev^^  jpeAsun  well  ^frith  diyfeune  <hc 
long  pepper,  and  s^lt;  ffi4  feryp  It  up  ipith  whatever  it  may 
fee)9i  to  Auit,  Poivritde,  li|«r^}y«  is  f,  sauce  qppiposed  of  pepr 
per  and  vinegar  ;  but  it  more  pa|rtici(liMrly  iojiplies  faeiog  well 
peppered  or  highly  seasoned. 

/SoMce  a-l*  Ualienne- 
Put  twQ  }arge  9pe»nfu)s  of  swec^  oil  into  t^  jstrw-pm^  9om$ 
muflhrooins  cut  sno^ll,  a.bonch  of  parsley,  tome  aaaUiQ08>  half 
f  la^0l  leafy  a  clov«  of  garlio,  and  two  i^love^.  Put  th# 
^hole  4KI  the  fire,  Md  «dd  a  pinch  of  flour  ooiogled  with  ivfaite 
IFii^e,  a  lU^le  broth .  9r  cotilia,  suit,  And  whole  pepper ;  let 
them  boil  half  im  hpur,  skim  off  the  fat,  take  out  the  herbs, 
(fO,  wA  qerve  it  up.  If  too  thin,  pot  in  a  little  flour,  and  a 
spoopful  or  two  of  juice  of  onions.  This  is  a  French  aance  after 
the  ttaUm  Planner,  aa  the  name  expresses.  The  lulians,  in^ 
4ei^,  /are  qitUe  9$  famous  fi>r  numeroi^s  sauces  as  the  French 
themselves. 


BROTHS,  S91TF9,  ORAVIB9,  AND  SAUCES.  179 

Cheffeuii  Smiee. 

This  sauce,  like  its  name,  is  probably  of  French  origin, 
beiA^  tided  fbt  the  ehevr^uil,  6r  roebuck.  It  is  thus  made :— 
Put  a  small  piece  of  btrtt^r  into  a  sfew-pan,  with  some  chop« 
ped  parsley,  sha)ots,  thyme,  mushrooms,  and  a  few  spoonfuls 
df  gravy  or  brown  stock ;  aftef  slowly  simmering  them  for 
almbst  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  add  a  sufficient  quantity  of  flour 
to  imbibe  all  the  butter,  and  continue  stirring  it  a  few  minutes 
longer  over  the  fire.  Then  put  to  it  a  pint  of  stock ;  stir  it  well, 
till  it  has  boiled  a  little  together ;  and,  taking  it  off  the  fire, 
squeeze  in  some  lemon  juice,  and  add  a  tea-spoonful  of  sifted 
loaf  sugar  and  a  small  quantity  of  pepper  and  salt,  to  give  it  a 
tskcdre  piquant  flavoiir. 

FHed  Parslaf, 

Let  it  be  nicely  picked  and  washed,  then  put  into  a 
doth,  and  swung  backwards  and  forwards  till  it  is  perfectly 
dry ;  put  it  into  a  pan  of  hot  fat,  fry  it  quick,  and  have  a  slice 
ready  to  take  it  out  the  moment  it  is  crisp,  (in  another  moment 
it  will  be  spoilt ;)  put  it  on  a  sieve,  or  coarse  ck)th,  before  the 
fire  to  drain. 

Crisp  Parsley. 

Pick  and  wash  young  parsley,  shake  it  in  a  dry  cloth  to 
drain  the  water  from  it;  spread  it  on  a  sheet  of  dean  paper,  in 
a  Dutch  oven  before  the  fire,  and  turn  it  frequently  until  it  is 
quite  crisp.  This  is  a  much  more  easy  way  of  preparing  it 
than  frying  it,  which  is  not  seldom/ ill  done. 

It  \&  a  very  pretty  garnish  for  lamb  chops,  fiah^  &c. 

FrUd  Bread  Sippets. 
Cut  a  slice  of  bread  about  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick, 
divide  it  with  a  sharp  knife  into  pieces  two  inches  square; 
shape  these  into  triangles  or  crosses :  put  some  very  dean  fat 
into  an  iron  frying-pan ;  when  it  is  hot,  put  in  the  sippets,  and 
fry  them  a  delicate  light  brown;  take  them  up  with  a  fish  slice,  . 
•od  drain  them  well  from  fat,  turning  them  occasionally;  this  will 
take  a  quarter  of  an  hour.     Keep  the  pan  at  such  a  distance . 
femi  the  fire,  that  the  fSa  may  be  hot  enough  to  brown  with* 


280  DOMESTIC  COOXSRT. 

oat  burning;  this  is  a  requisite  precaution  in  trying  delicate 
thin  things. 

These  are  a  pretty  garnish^  and  very  welcome  accompani* 
ment  and  improvement  to  the  finest  made  dishes :  they  majr 
also  be  sent  up  with  peas  and  other  soups  ;  but  when  intended 
for  soups,  the  bread  must  be  cut  into  bitSy  about  half  an  inch 
^uare.  If  they  are  not  done  very  delicately  clean  and  dry, 
they  are  uneatable. 

Fried  Bread  Crumbs. 

Rub  brea4  (which  has  been  baked  two  days)  through  a  wire 
aieve^  or  colander ;  or  you  may  rub  them  in  a  doth  till  they 
are  as  fine  as  if  they  had  been  grated,  and  sifted ;  put  them 
ioto  a  stew-pan  with  a  couple  of  ounces  of  butter,  place  it  over 
a  moderate  fire>  and  stir  them  about  with  a  wooden  spoon  till 
they  are  the  colour  of  a  guinea ;  spread  them  on  a  sieve,  and 
let  them  stand  ten  minutes  to  drain,  turning  them  frequently. 

Fried  crumbs  are  sent  up  with  roasted  sweetbreads,  or 
larks,  pheasants,  partridges,  woodcocks,  and  grouse,  or  moor 
game,  especially  if  they  have  been  kept  long  enough. 

Rice  Sauce, 

Speep  a  quarter  pound  of  rice  in  a  pint  of  milk,  with 
onion,  pepper,  &c.  When  the  rice  is  quite  tender  (take  out 
the  spice,)  rub  it  through  a  sieve  into  a  dean  stew-pan ;  if 
too  thick,  put  a  little  milk  or  cream  to  it. 

This  is  a  very  delicate  white  sauce ;  and  at  elegant  tables, 
is  firequently  served  instead  of  bread  sauce. 

Brouming. 

This  article  is  very  convenient  to  colour  those  soups  or 
sauces,  of  which  it  is  supposed  their  deep  brown  complexion 
denotes  the  strength  and  savouriness  of  the  composition. 
•    Put  half  a  pound  of  pounded  lump  sugar,  and  a  table* 
spoonful  of  water,  into  a  clean  iron  sauce-pan ;  set  it  over  a 
slow  fire,  and  keep  stirring  it  with  a  wooden  spoon  till  it  be- 
comes a  bright  brown  colour,  and  begins  to  smoke;  then  add  to 
it  an  ounce  of  salt,  and  dilate  it  by  degrees  with  water,  till  it 
is  the  thickness  of  soy;  let  it  boil,  take  oflf  the  scum,  and  ' 
strain  the  liquor  into  bottles,  which  must  be  well  stopped :  if  * 


BROTHS,  80I7VS,  GRAVIES,  AND  SAUCES.  281 

709  have  not  any  of  this  by  you,  and  you  wish  to  darken  the 
colour  of  your  sauces,  pound  a  tea-spoonful  of  lump  sugar, 
and  put  into  an  iron  spoon,  with  as  much  water  as  will  dissolve 
it ;  hold  it  over  a  quick  fire  till  it  becomes  of  a  very  dark 
brown  colour ;  mix  it  with  the  soup,  &c.  while  it  is  hot. 

Most  of  the  preparations  under  this  title  are  a  medley  of 
burnt  butter,  spices,  catsup,  wine,  &c. .  We  recommend  the 
rational  epicure  to  be  content  with  the  natural  colour  of  soups 
and  sauces,  which,  to  a  well  educated  palate,  are  much  more 
agreeable,  without  any  of  these  emp3rreumatic  additions :  how- 
ever they  may  please  the  eye,  they  plague  the  Aomach  most 
grievously. 

Some  cooks  calcine  bones,  till  they  are  as  black  as  a  coal, 
and  throw  them  hissing  hot  into  the  stew- pan,  to  give  a  brown 
Colour  to  their  broths.  These  ingredients,  under  the  appear* 
ance  of  a  nourishing  gravy,  envelope  our  food  with  stimulating 
acid  and  corrosive  poison. 

Rous  or  thickening,  if  not  made  very  carefully,  produces 
exactly  the  same  effect ;  and  th<^  juices  of  beef,  or  veal,  burnt 
over  a  hot  fire,  to  give  a  rich  colour  to  soup  or  sauces,  grievous- 
ly  offend  the  stomach,  and  create  the  most  distressing  indiges^ 
tions. 

The  judicious  cook  will  refuse  the  help  of  these  incendiary 
articles ;  which  ignorance  or  quackery  only  employ,  not  only 
at  the  expense  of  the  credit  of  the  cook,  but  the  health  of  her 
employers. 

Wow  Wow  Sauce  for  Stewed  or  BouiUi  Beef. 

Chop  some  parsley  leaves  very  finely,  quarter  two  or  three 
pickled  cucumbers,  or  walnuts,  and  divide  them  into  small 
squares,  and  set  them  by  ready  ;  put  into  a  sauce-pan  a  bit  of 
butter  as  big  as  an  egg  ;  when  it  is  melted,  stir  to  it  a  table- 
spoonful  of  fine  flour,  and  about  half  a  pint  of  the  broth  in 
which  the  beef  was  boiled ;  add  a  table-spoonful  of  vinegar, 
the  like  quantity  of  mushroom  catsup,  or  Port  wine,  or  both, 
and  a  tea- spoonful  of  made  mustard ;  let  it  simmer  together  till 
it  is  as'  thick  as  you  wish  it,  put  in  the  parsley  and  pickles  to 
get  warm,  and  pour  it  over  the  beef,— or  rather  send  it  up  in  a 
sauce  tureen. 

10  2o 


^8i  DOMESTIC  COOKSHT* 

Bttf  Gravjf  Samite,  or  Brawn  Sauce  for  Ragouts,  (Simie, 

Poultry,  Mth,  fye. 

Furnish  a  thick  and  well-tinned  stew-pan  with  i^  thin  slice 
of  fat  ham  or  bacon^  or  an  ounce  of  butter,  and  a  middling 
jBized  onion ;  on  this  lay  a  pound  of  nice  juicy  gravy  beef^ 
(as  the  object  in  making  gravy  is  to  extract  the  nutritious  sue* 
culence  of  the  meat,  it  must  be  beaten  to  comminute  the  con* 
taining  vessels,  and  scored  to  augment  the  surface  to  the  action 
of  the  water,)  cover  the  stew-pan,  and  set  it  on  a  slow  fire ; 
when  the  meat  begins  to  brown,  turn  it  about,  and  let  it  get 
slightly  browned,  (but  take  care  it  is  not  at  all  burnt :)  then 
pour  in  a  pint  and  a  half  of  boiling  water ;  set  the  pan  on  the 
fire ;  when  it  boils,  carefully  catch  the  scum,  and  then  put  in 
a  crust  of  bread  toasted  brown,  (don*t  bum  it)  a  sprig  of  win* 
ter  savory,  or  lemon  thjnne  and  parsley,  a  roll  of  thin  cut 
lemon  peel,  a  dozen  berries  of  allspice,  and  a  dozen  ef  bkck 
pepper ;  cover  the  stew**pan  dose,  and  let  it  stew  very  gently 
for  about  two  hours,  then  strain  it  through  a  sieve  into  a  basio* 
Now,  if  you  wish  to  thicken  it,  set  a  clean  stew-pan  over  a 
slow  fire,  with  about  an  ounce  of  butter  in  it ;  when  it  is  melt- 
ed, dredge  to  it  (by  degrees)  as  much  flour  as  will  dry  it  up» 
stirring  them  well  together ;  when  thoroughly  mixed,  poor  in 
a  little  of  the  gravy,  stir  it  well  together,  and  add  the  remain* 
der  by  degrees :  set  it  over  the  fire ;  let  it  simmer  gently  for 
fiSfleen  or  twenty  minutes  longer,  and  skim  off  the  fat,  &c.  as 
it  rises ;  when  it  is  about  as  thick  as  cream,  squeeze  it  through 
a  tammis,  or  fine  sieve,  and  you  will  have  a  fine  rich 
brown  saoee,  at  a  very  moderate  expense,  and  without  much 
trouble. 

If  you  wish  to  make  it  still  more  relishing,-*>if  it  is  for 
poultry,  yon  may  pound  the  liVer  with  a  bit  of  butter,  rub  it 
through  a  sieve,  and  stir  it  into  the  sauee  when  yon  put  in  the 
thickening.  For  a  ragout,  or  game,  add  at  the  same  time  a 
tlible-spoonful  of  mushroom  catsup,  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon» 
gtid  h  roll  6f  the  rind  par^  thin,  a  table- ^K>onful  of  port,  or 
cfther  wine,  (claret  is  t>est,)  add  a  few  grains  of  Cayenne  pep- 
per ;  or  use  double  the  quantity  of  meat,  or  add  a  bit  of  glaae, 
or  portable  Soup. 


BROTHS^  SOVVSf  GRAVIBS,  AUTD  SAUCES.  ^^d 

Orange  Grmvy  Sauce,  for  Wild  Ducks,   Widgeon,   Teal,  S^c. 

S^t  on  a  sauce-pan  with  half  a  pint  of  veal  gravy,  add  tP 
it  half  a  dozen  leaves  of  basils  a  small  paion^  and  a  roll  of 
orange  or  lemon  peel,  and  let  it  boil  up  for  a  few  minutes,  and 
strain  it  off.  Put  to  the  deur  gravy  the  juice  of  a  Seville 
orange^  or  lemon^  half  atea-tpoonfWl  of  salt,  the  same  of  pep- 
per, and.  a  glass  of  red  wine;  send  it  up  hot  Eschalot  and 
Cayenne  may  be  added*  This  is  an  excellent  sauce  for  all  kin4B 
of  wild  water  fowl. 

The  common  way  of  gashing  the  breast,  and  squeezing  in 
an  orange,  cools  and  hardens  the  flesh,  and  compels  every  one 
to  eat  duck  that  way ;  some  people  like  wild  fowl  very  little 
done,  and  without  any  sauce. 

Gravies  should  always  be  sent  up  in  a  boat ;  they  keep  hot 
longer ;  and  it  leaves  it  to  the  choice  of  the  company  to  pai;- 
take  it  or  not. 

Bonne  Bouche,  for  Goose,  Duck,  or  Roast  Pork. . 

Mix  a  tea-spoonful  of  made  mustard,  a  salt-spoonful  qf 
salty  and  a  few  grains  of  cayenne,  in  a  large  wine-glassful  qf 
claret,  or  Port  wine ;  pour  it  into  the  goose  by  a  slit  in  the 
apron,  just  before  serving  up ;  or,  as  all  the  company  may  not 
like  it,  stir  it  into  a  quarter  <^  a  pint  of  thick  melted  butter,  at 
thickened  g^vj,  and  send  it  up  in  a  boat. 

JRfihert  Sauce  for  Steaks,  Roast  Pork,  or  Geese,  Sfc, 

Put  nn  ounce  of  butter  into  a  pint  stew-pan ;  when  it  is 
melted,  add  to  it  half  an  ounce  of  onion  minced  very  fiae: 
turn  it  with  a  wooden  spoon,  till  it  takes  a  l^bt  brown  colour, 
then  stir  in  a  table-spoonful  of  flour,  a  tabl^spoonful  c^ 
mushroom  catsup,  (with  or  wiUniut  the  She  ^aotity  of  Port 
wine,)  half  a  pint  of  broth,  or  water,  and  a  quarter  oi  m  tea- 
spoonful  of  pepper,  the  same  of  salt;  give  theoj-a  boil,  then 
add  a  tea-spoonful  of  mustard,  and  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon, 
or  one  or  two  tea-spoon^ls  of  vinegar,'  or  basil. 

The  French  call  thia&ittce  Robert,  (firom  the  name  of  the 
cook  who  invented  it,)  and  are  very,  fond  of  it  with  many 
things. 


284  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

BefUon  Sauce, 

Grate  some. horseradish,  or  scrape  it  very  fine.  Add  to  it 
a  little  made  mustard,  some  pounded  white  sugar,  and  four 
large  spoonfuls  of  vinegar.  Serve  it  up  in  a  saucer :  this  i» 
good  with  hot  or.  cold  roast  beef. 

Turtle  Sauce. 

Put  into  your  stew-pan  a  pint  of  beef  gravy  thickened, 
a  wine-glass  of  Madeira,  the  juice  and  peel  of  half  a  lemon, 
a  few  leaves  of  basil,  an  eschalot  quartered,  a  few  grains  of 
Cayenne  pepper,  or  curry  powder,  and  a  little  essence  of  an- 
chovy  ;  let  them  simmer  together  for  five  minutes,  and  strain 
through  a  tammis ;  you  may  introduce  a  dozen  turtle  force- 
meat balls.  &c.  . 

This  is  the  sauce  for  boiled  or  hashed  cairahead^  stewed 
veal,  or  any  dish  you  dress  turtle  fashion. 

Wine  Sauce,  for  Veniwn  or  Hare, 

A  quarter  of  a  pint  of  claret  or  Port  wine,  the  same  quan- 
tity of  plain  unflavoured  mutton  gravy,  and  a  table-spooilful  of 
currant  jelly ;  let  it  just  boil  up,  and  send  it  to  table  in  a 
sauce-boat. 

Sharp  Sauce  for  Venigou. 

Put  into  a  silver,  or  very  clean  and  well-tinned  sauoe-pan, 
half  a  pint  of  the  best  white  wine  vinegar,  and  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  loaf-sugar  pouuded ;  set  it  over  the  fire,  and  let  it 
simmer  gently  :  skim  it  carefully,  pour  it  through  a  tammis  ot 
fine  sieved  and  send  it  up  in  a  basin. 

Some  people  like  this  better  than  the  sweet  wine  sauces; 

Swui  Sauce  far  Venison  or  Hare. 

Pat  some  currant  jelly  into  a  stew-pan ;  when  it  is  melted, 
pour  it  into  a  sauce-boat.  Many  send  it  to  table  withoat 
melting. 

This  is  a  more  salubrious  relish  than  either  spice  or  salt, 
and  when  the  palate  protests  against  animal  food  unless  its 
flavour  be  masked:  currant  jelly  is  a  good  accompaniment  tft 
roasted  or  hashed  meats. 


r 


BROTHS^  4M>t7P8,  GRAVIES,  AND  SAUCBS.  286 

Old  Sauce  for  Venison. 

An  old  favourite  sauce  for  venison  ia  still  occasionally  made 
in  the  following  manner :  Simmer^  in  a  pint  of  red  wine,  half 
a  pound  of  powdered  sugar,  and  a  stick  of  cinnamon,  till  the 
liquor  becomes  tolerably  thick,  but  without  boiling ;  then  cut 
some  bread  into  dice,  soften  it  in  water,  put  it  into  the  sauce, 
take  out  the  cinnamon,  and  boil  the  rest  up  together.  Some- 
times, the  bread  is  at  first  boiled  with  the  wine  and  the  spice  till 
quite  smooth,  and  the  sugar  only  introduced  on  taking  out  the 
cinnamon  ;  when  it  is  boiled  up,  and  beaten  into  what  is  called 
the  old  pap  sauce  for  venison. 

Cheap  Ham  Stock  for  Grame$  and  Sauces. 

Take  a  ham  bone,  when  nearly  done  with ;  pick  oat  all  the 
bits  of  meat  which  are  not  rusty,  whether  fat  or  lean  ;  smash 
the  bone  to  pieces^  beat  the  meat  with  a  rolling-pin,  and  put 
the  whole  into  a  sauce- pan,  over  a  slow  fire,  with  about  a  quar« 
ter  of  a  pint  of  broth  or  gravy.  Stir  it  well  continually,  to 
prevent  it  sticking  to  the  bottom  ;  and,  when  it  has  been  on 
some  time,  add  a  small  quantity  of  sweet  herbs,  a  little  pep- 
per, and  half  a  pint  of  beef  gravy :  then  cover  it  up,  and  let 
it  continue  gently  to  stew  till  the  herbs  give  it  a  good  flavour. 
It  is  then  to  be  strained  off,  and  carefully  kept  to  improve  rich 
gravy,  or  sauces  of  almost  every  description  ;  being,  in  fact, 
a  sort  of  essence  of  ham,  though  thus  easily  and  cheaply  ob- 
tained. 

Grill  Sauce. 

To  half  a  pint  of  beef  gravy^  add  an  ounce  of  fresh  butter, 
and  a  table-spoonful  of  flour,  previously  well  rubbed  together, 
the  same  of  mushroom,  or  walnut  catsup,  two  tea-spoonfuls  of 
lemon  juice,  one  of  made  mustard,  one  of  minced  capers, 
half  a  one  of  black  pepper,  a  quarter  of  the  rind  of  a  lemon, 
grated  very  thin,  a  tea-spoonful  of  essence  of  anchovies,  and 
a  little  shalot  wine,  or  a  very  small  piece  of  minced  shalot, 
and  a  little  Chili  vinegar,  or  a  few  grains  of  cayenne ;  simmer 
together  &r  a  few  minutes,  and  pour  a  little  of  it  over  the  grill, 
and  send  up  the  rest  in  a  sauce  tureen. 


88$  DOMESTIC  COOKBftY. 

Sauce  a^Ia  Tartars 

Potwd  in  a  mortar  three  hard  yolks  of  egg%,  put  them  into 
abasin^  and  add  half  a  table- spoonful  of  made  mustard^  and 
a  little  pepper  and  salt ;  pour  to  it  by  degrees,  stirring  it  fast 
all  the  while,  about  two  wine-glassfuls  of  salad  oil;  stir  it  to* 
gether  till  it  comes  to  a  good  thickness. 

A  little  tarragon  or  chervil  minced  very  finely,  and  a  little 
vinegar,  may  be  added. 

Sauce  for  Steaks,  or  Chops,  Cutlets,  Sfc. 

Take  your  chops  out  of  the  frying-pan ;  for  a  pound  of 
meat,  keep  a  table-spoonful  of  the  fat  in  the  pan,  or  put  in 
about  an  ounce  of  butter ;  put  to  it  as  much  flour  as  will  make  it 
a  paste,  rub  it  well  together  over  the  fire  till  they  are  a  little 
brown,  then  add  as  much  boiling  water  as  wiH  reduce  it  to  the 
thickness  of  good  cream,  and  a  table-spoonful  of  mushroom, 
or  walnut  catsup,  or  browning :  let  it  boil  together  a  few  mi- 
nutes, and  pour  it  through  a  sieve  to  the  steaks,  &c. 

Sauci  for  Hashes  of  Mutton,  or  Beef 

Chop  the  bones  and  fragments  of  the  joint,  &c  and  put 
them  into  a  stew-pan,  and  cover  them  with  boiling  water,  six 
berries  of  black  pepper,  the  same  of  allspice,  a  small  bundle 
of  parsley,  half  a  head  of  celery  cut  in  pieces,  and  a  small 
sprig  of  savory,  or  lemon  thyme,  or  sweet  marjoram ;  cover 
up,  and  let  it  simmer  gently  for  half  an  hour. 

Slice  half  an  ounce  of  onion,  and  put  it  into  a  stew-pan 
with  an  ounce  of  butter,  fry  it  over  a  sharp  fire  for  about  a 
couple  of  minutes,  till  it  takes  a  little  colour ;  then  stir  in  as 
much  flour  as  will  make  it  a  stiff  paste,  and  by  degrees  mix 
with  it  the  gravy  you  have  made  from  the  bones,  &c.  Let  it^ 
boil  very  gently  for  about  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  till  it  is  the 
consistence  of  thick  cream ;  strain  it  through  a  tammis  or  sieve 
into  a  basin ;  put  it  back  into  the  stew-pan.  To  season  it,  cut 
in  a  few  pickled  onions,  or  walnuts,  or  a  couple  of  gherkins, 
and  a  table-spoonful  of  mushroom  catsup,  or  walnut,  or  other 
pickle  liquor,  or  some  capers  and  caper  liquor,  or  a  table- 
spoonful  of  ale,  or  a  little  shalot,  or  tarragon  vinegar ;  cover 
the  bottom  of  the  dish  with  sippets  of  bread,  (that  they  may 


BEOTHS,  SOtJ»S,  6AAV1B9,  AW  SAVCB8.  tfft 

beeoiBie  Mvoury  retervom  tif  grasvy,)  ipliich  Mitt^  toait  «fid 
cat  into  triangles.  You  may  garnish  it  with  6ntd  bi^ad  iUfq^lelts. 
T6  ha^  nest  in  pafe^dm^,  it  should  be  hoi.  kk  «hM  firavy 
(mly  jufit  long  enough  %9  get  propetty  #am  tltt^ough.  If  mtty 
of  tbe  gravy  that  was  sent  up  with,  or  ran  froitt  the  jo^  when 
it  was  roasted,  be  left»  it  wdl  be  a  great  iin(irovement  to  the 
hash. 

Sauce  f&r  Hashed  or  Minced  Veal. 

Take  tihe  bonea  of  cold  rasM;  or  boiled  veal,  dredge  diem 
well  with  floar,  and  put  them  into  a  stew-pan,  witha  paiiit  aad 
a  half  of  broth  or  water,  a  small  onion,  a  little  grated  or 
finely  ninced  lenieii  peel,  or  Ae  pad  6t  a  quarter  o#  a  sbm^ 
l^noti,  pared  as  thin  ss  ^^ossbk,  half  A  teo'^poonfui  a£  salt, 
and  a  bkde ^of  pouaded  mace;  te  thidun  it,  rdb  a  table-spoon-* 
f«d  of  flour  into  half  «n  otacc  of  butter ;  stir  it  into  tiie  broths 
and  sM  it  essx  the  fce^  abdkt  it  bofl  very  gently  finr  idiout  half 
an  hoi»r«  strimi  thtough  a  taannn  nr  siev«,  and  it  is  vaidy  to 
piittotbe¥ea)«to  wiffm  up^  whiehis4obedoDeby  pUoingtha 
slsw-piinl^t4e  side  of  the  fire.  Sqiieese  in  half  alemoD,aiid 
oover  the  bottom  of  «be  dish  with  toasted  bread  sippets  cut  into 
triangles,  atidganush  the  disk  wkh  dices  of  turn  or  bacon. 

Bechamel,  commonly  oaUed  Whke  Semce. 

Cut  in  aquace  pieces,  half  an  inch  thick)  two  poonds  of  lean 
veal,  half  a  pound  of  lean  ham ;  melt  in  a  atow-pan  two  ovncea 
of  butter ;  when  melted,  let  the  whole  simmer  until  it  is  ready 
to  catch  at  the  bottom,  (it  requires  great  attention,  as  if  it  hap- 
pen to  ctleh  at  the  bottom  of  the  stetr-pHH,  it  will  spoH  the 
look  of  yo«r  sauce,)  then  add  to  it  three  tslUe-spobnfuls  of  fi^ur  ; 
when  well  ouxed,  add  to  it  three  piMs  of  broth  or  water,-^pour 
a  Uttlaata  time,  that  the  tlMfiei^g  be  smooth,  sltir  h  until  it 
boil,  put  the  stew-pan  onljhe  corner  sf  the  Move  t5  boil  gently 
for  two  hours,  season  it  with  four  cloves,  one  onion,  twelve 
peppercams,  a  blade  df  mai^e,  a  few  mw(brooms,  and  a  ftgot 
made  of  par^y,  a  sprig  of  ^yme,  and  a  bay  leaf.  Let  the 
sanbe  reduce  toa  qnsB%  skfknthie  ftt  off,  and  strain  it  through 
a  tammis  doth. 

To  make  a  beehataHel  sauce,  add  to  aqn^t  of  the  above  a 
piat  of  good  CFeaBi,«'-«lir  it  Mtil  it  is  reduced  to  a  good  thiek- 


28S  DORBSTIC  COOKBBT. 

ness ;  afew  muahrooms  give  a-good  flavour  to  that  saiioe ;  straiil 
it  tbrough  a  tamnris  cloth. 

Bechamel  implies  a  thick  white  sauce/  approaching  to  a 
batter,  and  takes  its  name  from  a  wealthy  French  marqui^ 
famous  for  his  patronage  of  les  Ojficiera  dt  Bouche,  who  have 
immortalised  him,  by  calling  by  his  name  this  delicate  com* 
position. 

Most  of  the  French  sauces  take  their  name  from  the  per- 
son  whose  palate  they  first  pleased,  as  a-ld  Maintenon ;  or  from 
some  famous  cook  who  invented  them,  as  Sauce  Robert,— a^la 
Motttizeur,  &c. 

A  more  Economical  Method  of  making  a  Pint  of  White  Sauce* 

Put  equal  parts  of  broth  and  milk  into  a  stew-pan  with  an 
enioB  and  a  blade  of  mace, — set  on  the  fire  to  boil  ten  minutes, 
have  ready  and  rub  tqgether  on  a  plate  an  ounce  of  flour  and 
butter,  put  it  into  the  stew-pan,  stir  it  well  till  it  boils  op, 
then  stand  it  near  the  fire  or  stove,  stirring  it  every  now  and 
then  tin  it  becomes  quite  smooth,  then  strain  it  through  a  sieve 
into  a  basin,  put  it  back  into  the  stew-pan,  season  it  with  salt 
and  the  juice  c£  a  small  lemon,  beat  up  the  yolks  of  two 
eggs  well  with  about  three  table-spoonfuls  of  milk,  strain  it 
through  a  sieve  into  your  sauce,  stir  it  well,  and  keep  it  near 
the  fire ;  but  be  sure  and  do  not  let  it  boil,  fior  it  will  curdle. 

This  is  a  convenient  veil  for  boiled  fowls,  Slc,  whose  com- 
plexions are  not  inviting! 

*  i 

Muiturd. 

Mix  (by  degrees,  by  rubbing  together  in  a  mortar)  the  best 
Durham  flour  of  mustard  with  cold  water,  in  which  scraped 
horseradish  has  been  boiled  ;  rub  it  well  together  till  it  is  per- 
fectly smooth ;  it  will  keep  in  a  stone  jar  dosely  stopped,  for 
a  fortnight ;  only  put  as  much  into  the  mustard  pot  as  will  be 
used  in  a  day  or  two. 

The  ready  made  mustard,  prepared  at  the  oil  shops,  is  mix- 
ed with  about  one-fourth  part  salt :  this  is  done  to  preserve  it,* 
if  it  is  to  be  kept  long ;  otherwise,  by  all  means  omit  it     The 
best  way  of  eating  salt  is  in  substance. 

We  believe  mustard  is  the  best  of  all  the  stimulants  that  are 
employed  to  give  energy  to  the  digestive  organs.    Some  opii«* 


BROTHS^  80UP8»  ORAVIBS^  AND  SAUCES.  280 

lent  epJcuEes  mix  it  witk  therry  or  Madeira  wine^  or  distilled 
orflavoiured  vinegar,  instead  of  horseradish  water. 

Mmtard'in  a  Minute, 

Mix  very  gradually,  and  rub  together  in  a  mortar,  an  ounce 
of  flour  of  mustard,  with  three  table-spoonfuls  of  milk,  (cream 
is  better,)  half  a  tea-spoonful  of  salt,  and  the  same  of  sugar  ; 
mb  them  well  together  till  quite  smooth.  Mustard  made  in 
this  manner  is  not  at  all  bitter,  and  is  therefore  instantly  ready 
for  Uie  table. 

It  has  been  said  that  flour  of  mustard  is  sometimes  adulte- 
rated with  common  flour,  &c. 

Keeping  Mugtard. 

Dissolve  three  ounces  of  salt  in  a  quart  of  boiling  water, 
and  pour  it  hot  upon  two  ounces  of  scraped  horseradish ;  close- 
ly cover  down  the  jar,  and  let  it  stand  twenty-four  hours : 
strain,  and  mix  it  by  degrees  with  the  best  Durham  flour  of 
mastaid,  beat  well  together  till  quite  smooth  and  of  the  pro- 
per thickness;  put  into  a  wide-mouthed  bottle,  and  stop  it 
elosely. 

Cayenne  Pepper. 

Foreign  Cayenne  pepper  is  an  indiscriminate  mixture  of  the 
powder  of  the  dried  pods  of  many  species  of  capsicums,  espe- 
cially of  the  bird  pepper,  which  is  the  hottest  of  all.  As  it 
comes  to  ns  from  the  West  Indies,  it  changes  the  infusion  of 
tumioleto  a  beautiful  green,  probably  owing  to  the  salt  which 
is  always  added  to  it,  and  the  red  oxide  of  lead,  with  whidi  it 
is  said  to  be  adulterated. 

The  Indian  cayenne  is  prepared  in  a  very  careless  manner^ 
and  often  looks  as  if  the  pods  had  lain  till  they  were  decayed^ 
before  they  were  dried ;  this  accounts  for  the  dirty  brown  ap* 
pearance  it  commonly  has.  If  properly  dried  as  soon  as  gather* 
ed,  it  will  be  of  a  clear  red  colour.  To  give  it  the  complexion 
of  that  made  with  good  fresh-gathered  capsicums  or  chilies, 
some  amatto,  or  other  vegetable  red  colouring  matter,  is 
pomided  with  it,  adulterated  with  red  lead. 

When  cayenne  is  pounded,  it  is  mixed  with  a  considerable 
portion  of  salt»  to  prevent  iU  flying  up  and  hurting  the  eyes : 
II  Sp 


290  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

this  might  be  avoided  by  grinding  it  in  a  mill.  Which  may 
easily  be  made  close  enough^  especially  if  it  be  passed  through 
a  second  time^  and  then  sifted  through  a  fine  drum-headed 
sieve,  to  produce  as  fine  a  powder  as  can  be  obtained  by 
pounding.  However,  our  English  chilies  may  be  pounded  in  a 
deep  mortar  without  any  danger. 

Capsicums  and  chilies  are  rtpe  and  red,  and  in  finest  con- 
dition, during  September  and  October ;  they  may  be  purchased 
at  herb  shops,  the  former  for  about  five,  the  bitter  for  two 
shOlings  per  hundred. 

The  flavour  of  the  chilies  is  very  superior  to  that  of  the 
capsicums,  and  will  be  good  in  proportion  as  they  are  dried  as 
soon  as  possible,  taking  care  they  are  not  burnt. 

Take  away  the  stalks,  and  put  the  pods  into  a  colander ;  set 
it  before  the  fire ;  they  will  take  full  twelve  hours  to  dry ;  then 
put  them  into  a  mortar,  with  one-fourth  .their  weight  of  salt, 
and  pound  them  and  rub  them  till  they  are  as  fine  as  possible, 
and  put  them  into  a  well-stopped  bottle. 

We  advise  those  who  are  fond  of  cayenne,  not  to  think  it 
too  much  trouble  to  make  it  of  English  chilies ;  there  is  no  other 
way  of  being  sure  it  is  genuine,  and  they  will  obtain  a  pepper 

of  much  finer  flavour,  without  half  the  heat  of  the  foreign.    A 

« 

hundred  large  chilies,  costing  only  two  shillings,  will  produce 
you  about  two  ounces  of  cayenne, — so  it  is  as  cheap  as  the  CQm<« 
monest  cayenne. 

Eiseneeof  Cayenne. 

Put  half  an  ounce  of  Cavenne  pepper  into  half  a  pint  of 
wine  or  brandy ;  let  it  steep  a  fortnight,  and  then  pour  off  the 
dear  liquor.  This  article  is  very  convenient  for  the  extempow 
seasoning  and  finishing  of  soups  and  sauces,  its  flavour  being 
instantly  and  equally  diffused. 

SaU. 

Common  salt  sl^ould  be  prepared  for  the  table  by  drying 
it  in  a  Dutch  oven  before  the  fire :  then  put  it  on  a  dean  paper, 
and  roU  it  with  a  rolling-pin.  If  you  pound  it  in  a  mortar  till  it 
is  quite  fine,  it  will  look  as  well  as  basket  salt,  ^alden  salt  i^ 
8ti}l  more  piq^nU. 


BROTHS,  S0t7t»S,  GRAVIES,  AND  SAUCES.  291 

Basket  Sidt. 

This  fine  and  delicftte  article  is  chiefly  made  from  the  salt 
springs  in  Cheshire,  and  difTers  from  the  common  brine  salt, 
(asually  called  sea  salt,)  not  only  in  its  whiteness  and  purity, 
bat  in  the  fineness  of  its  grain.  Some  families  entertain  pre- 
judices against  basket  salt,  notwithstanding  its  superior  delicacy, 
from  an  idea,  which  does  not  appear  warranted,  that  pernicious 
articles  are  used  in  its  preparation:  it  may  therefore  be  pro- 
per to  mention,  that  by  dissolving  common  salt,  again  evapo- 
rating into  dryness,  and  then  reducing  it  to  powder  in  a  mor- 
tar,  a  salt  nearly  equal  to  basket  salt  may  be  obtained,  fine  and 
of  a  good  colour,  and  well  adapted  to  the  use  of  the  table. 

Forcemeat  Stuffings. 

Forcemeat  is  now  considered  an  indispensable  accompani- 
ment to  most  made  dishes,  and  when  composed  with  good  taste, 
gives  additional  spirit  and  relish  to  even  that  Sovereign  of 
SavcwrinesSj  turtle  soup.  It  is  also  sent  up  in  patties,  and  for 
stuffing  pf  veal,  ganie,  poultry,  &c. 

The  ingredients  should  be  so  proportioned,  that  no  one 
flavour  predominates.  Instead  of  giving  the  same  stuffing  for 
veal,,  hare,  &c.  with  a  little  contrivance  you  may  make  as 
great  a  variety  as  you  have  dishes. 

I  have  given  receipts  fbr  some  of  the  most  favourite  com- 
positions, and  a  table  of  materials,  a  glance  at  which  will 
enable  the  ingenious  cook  to  make  an  infinite  variety  of  com- 
binations :  the  first  column  containing  the  spirit,  the  second  the 
substance  of  them. 

The  poignancy  of  forcemeat  should  be  proportioned  to  the 
savouriness  of  the  viands,  to  which  it  is  intended  to  give  an 
additional  sest.  Some  dishes  require  a  very  delicately  flavoured 
forcemeat;  for  others  it  must  be  full  and  high  seasoned.  What 
would  be  piqnante  in  a  turkey,  would  be  insipid  with  turtle. 

Tastes  are  so  different,  and  the  praise  the  cook  receives 
will  depend  so  much  on  her  pleasing  the  palate  of  those  she 
works  for,  that  all  her  sagacity  must  be  on  the  alert,  to  pro- 
duce the  flavours  to  which  her  employers  are  partial. 

Most  people  have  an  acquired  and  peculiar  taste  in  stuffings, 
&&  imd  what  exactly  pleases  one,  seldom  is  precisely  what 
another  considers  the  most  agreeable.    Custom  is  all  in  all,  in 


292 


DOMESTIC  COOKEET. 


matters  of  taste ;  it  ia  not  that  one  person  is  naturally  fond  of 
this  or  that,  and  another  naturally  averse  to  it,  but  that  one  ia 
used  to  it^  and  anotheir  is  not. 

The  consistency  of  forcemeats  is  rather  a  difficult  thng  to 
manage ;  they  are  almost  always  either  too  light  or  too  heavjr. 

Take  care  to  pound  it  till  perfbctly  smooth,  and  that  all  the 
ingredients  are  thoroughly  incoiporated. 

Forcemeat  balls  must  not  be  larger  than  a  small  nutmeg :  if 
they  are  for  brown  sauce,  flour  them  and  fry  tiiem;'  if  £at 
white,  put  them  into  boiling  water,  and  boil  them  for  three 
minutes :  the  latter  are  by  far  the  most  delieate. 

Forcemeat,  if  not  of  snfficimit  stiffness,  -fiiUs  to  pieces,  •and 
makes  soup,  &c.  grouty  and  very  unsightly. 

Sweetbreads  and  tongues  are  the  &vottrite  materials  for 
forcemeat. 


Materials  used  far  Forcemeat. 


SPIRIT. 


Thyme 

Sweet  Marjoram 

Summer  and  Winter 

Savory 
Sage 
Tarragon 
BasU 
Bay-leaf 

Truffles  and  Mords 
Onions 
Leeks 
Garlic 
Oysters 
Anchovy 
Dressed  Tongue 
Black,  or  White  Pepper 
Allspice 
Cayenne 


I 


9 


SUBSTANCES. 

Flour 

Crumbs  of  Bread 

Parsley 

Spinach 

Boiled  Onion 

Mashed  Potatoes 

Yolks  of  hard  Eggs 

Mutton 

Beef 

Veal  Suet,  or  Marrow 

Calf's  Udder,  or  Brains 

Parboiled  Sweetbread 

Veal  minced  and  poundei 

Potted  Meats. 


BROTHS,  SOUPS,  GBAVtES,  AND  SAUCB9.  ^M 

Simfimg  far  Veal,  Roast  Turkey,  Fowl,  Sfc. 

Mince  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  beef  suet,  (beef  marrow  is 
better,)  the  same  weight  of  bread  crumbs,  two  drams  of  par- 
sley leaves,  a  dram  and  a  half  of  sweet  marjoram,  (or  lemon 
thyme,)  and  the  same  of  grated  lemon  peel,  and  onion  or  es- 
chalot chopped  as  fine  as  possible,  a  little  grated  nutmeg,  pep- 
per, and  salt :  pound  thoroughly  together  with  the  yolk  and 
white  of  two  eggs,  and  secure  it  in  the  veal  with  a  skewer,  or 
sew  it  in  with  a  bit  of  thread. 

Make  some  of  It  into  balls  or  sausages,  flour  them,  and  boil 
or  fVy  them ;  and  send  them  up  as  a  garnish^  or  in  a  side  dish, 
with  roast  poultry,  veal,  or  cutlets,  &c. 

This  is  about  the  quantity  for  a  turkey  poult ;  a  very  large 
turkey  will  take  nearly  twice  as  much.  To  the  above  may  be 
added  an  ounce  of  dressed  ham,^6r  use  equal  parts  of  the  above 
stuffing,  and  pork  sausage  meat,  pounded  well  together. 

Feat  Forcemeat, 

Of  undressed  lean  veal  (after  yon  have  scraped  it  quite 
fine,  and  free  from  skin  and  sinews,)  two  ounces,  the  same 
quantity  of  (beef  or  veal)  suet,  and  the  same  of  bread  crumbs; 
chop  fine  two  drams  of  parsley,  one  of  lemon  peel,  one  of 
sweet  herbs,  one  of  onion,  and  half  a  dram  of  mace,  or  all- 
spice, (beaten  to  fine  powder ;)  pound  all  together  in  a  mortar, 
break  into  it  the  yolk  and  white  of  an  ^g :  rub  it  all  up  well 
together,  and  season  it  with  a  little  pepper  and  salt. 

This  may  be  made  more  savoury  by  the  addition  of  cold 
boiled  pickled  tongue,  andiovy,  eschalot,  cayenne,  or  carry 
powder,  &c. 

€ho$e  or  Duck  Shjfing. 

Chop  very  fine  about  two  ounces  of  onion,  of  green  asge 
leaves  about  an  ounce,  (both  unboiled,)  four  ounces  of  bread 
crumbs,  the  yolk  and  white  of  an  egg,  and  a  little  pepper  and 
salt ;  some  add  to  this  a  mmoMl  apple* 

Stuffing  for  Hare. 

Two  euDces  of  beef  suet  chopped  fine,  three  ounces  of  fine 
breadcrumbs;  parsley,  a  dram;  shalot,  half  a  dram;  a  dram 
of  marjoram,   lemon  tbyme>  or  winter  savory;  a  dnm  of 


ftD4  DOMESTIC  COOKSRY. 

grated  lemon  peel,  half  a  dram  of  nutmeg,  and  the  same  of 
pepper  and  salt :  mix  these  with  the  white  and  yolk  of  an  egg ; 
do  not  make  it  thin ;  it  most  be  of  a  cohesive  consistence ;  if 
your  stuffing  is  not  stiff  enough,  it  will  be  good  for  nothing  ; 
put  it  in  the  hare,  and  sew  it  up. 

If  the  liver  is  quite  sound,  you  may  parboil  it,  and  minoe 
it  very  fine,  and  add  it  to  the  above* 

Forcemeat  Balls  for  Turtle,  Mock  Turtle,  or  Made  Dishes. 

Pound  some  veal  in  a  marble  mortar,  rub  it  through  a 
'sieve  with  as  much  of  the  udder  as  you  have  veal,  or  about  a 
third  the  quantity  of  butter;— pot  some  bread  crumbs  into  a 
stew-pan,  moisten  them  with  milk,  add  a  little  chopped  par- 
sley and  shalot,  rub  them  well  together  in  a  mortar  till  they 
form  a  smooth  paste;  put  it  through  a  sieve,  and  when  cold, 
pound,  and  mix  all  together,  with  the  yolks  of  three  ^ggs 
boiled  hard ;  season  it  with  salt,  pepper,  and  curry  powder, 
or  cayenne ;  add  to  it  the  yolks  of  two  raw  eggs,  rub  it  well 
.together,  and  make  small  balls ;  ten  minutes  before  your  soap 
is  tesAj,  put  them  in. 

Egg  Balls. 

Boil  four  eggs  for  ten  minutes,  and  put  them  into  cold 
water;  when  they  are  quite  cold,  put  the  yolks  into  a  mortar 
with  the  yolk  of  a  raw  egg,  a  tea^spoonful  of  flour,  same  of 
chopped  parsley,  as  much  salt  as  will  lie  on  a  shilling,  and  a 
little  black  pepper,  or  cayenne,  rub  them  well  together,  roll 
them  into  small  balls,  (as  they  swell  in  boiling,}— boil  them  a 
couple  of  minutes. 

Curry  Balls,  for  Moek  Turtle,  Veal,  Poultry,  tf  M^de  Dishes. 

These  are  made  with  bread  crumbs,  the  yolk  of  ao  egg 
boiled  hard,  and  a  bit  of  fresh  butter  about  half  as  big,  beaten 
together  in  a  mortar,  and  seasoned  with  curry  powder.  Make 
and  prepare  small  balls,  as  directed  for  ^g  balls. 

Fish  Forcemeat. 
Take  two  ounces  of  either  turbot,  sole,  lobster,  shrimps, 
or  oysters,  ftee  fiom  skin ;  put  it  in  a  mortar,  with  two  ounces 
of  ftesh  butter,  one  ounce  of  bread  crumbs^  the  yolk  of  two 


BROTHS,  SOUPS,  GRAVIES,  AND  SAUCBS.  295 

eggs  boiled  hard,  and  a  little  eschalot,  grated  lemon  peel,  and 
IHffsley,  minced  very  fine ;  then  pound  it  well  till  it  is  tho- 
roughly mixed  and  quite  smooth;  season  it  with  salt  and 
cayenne  to  your  taste,  break  in  the  yolk  and  white  of  one  egg^ 
rub  it  well  together,  and  it  is  ready  for  use.  Oysters  par- 
boiled and  minced  fine,  and  an  anchovy,  may  be  added. 

Orange  or  Letnon  Peel,  to  mup  with  Stuffing. 

Peel  a  Seville  orange,  or  lemon,  very  thin,  taking  off  only 
the  fine  yellow  rind,  (without  any  of  the  white,)  pound  it  in  9 
mortar  with  a  bit  of  lump  sugar,  rub  it  well  with  the  peel,  by 
degrees  add  a  little  of  the  forcemeat  it  is  to  be  mixed  with ; 
when  it  is  well  ground  and  blended  with  this,  mix  it  with  the 
whole :  there  is  no  other  way  of  incorporating  it  so  well. 

Forcemeats,  &c.  are  frequently  spoiled  by  the  insufficient 
mixing  of  the  ingredients. 

Clouted  or  Clotted  Cream, 

The  milk  which  is  put  into  the  pans  one  morning  stands 
till  the  next ;  then  put  the  pan  on  a  hot  hearth,  (or  in  a  copper 
tray,  half  full  of  water,— put  this  over  a  stove ;)  in  from  ten  to 
twenty  minutes,  according  to  the  quantity  of  the  milk  and  the 
^ize  of  the  pan,  it  will  be  enough,— the  sign  of  which  is,  that 
bladders  rise  on  its  surface ;  this  denotes  that  it  is  neai^  boiling, 
which  it  must  by  no  means  do ;  and  it  must  be  instantly  remov- 
ed from  the  fire,  and  placed  in  the  dairy  till  the  next  morning, 
when  the  fine  cream  is  thrown  up,  and  is  ready  for  the  table, 
or  for  butter,  into  which  it  is  soon  converted  by  stirring  it  with 
the  hand. 

Roipherry  Vinegar. 

The  best  way  to  make  this  is  to  pour  three  pints  of  the 
best  white  wine  vinegar  on  a  pint  and  a  half  of  fresh  gathered 
red  raspberries  in  a  stone  jar,  or  china  bowl,  (neither  glazed 
earthenware,  nor  any  metallic  vessel,  must  be  used ;)  the  next 
day  strain  the  liquor  over  a  like  quantity  of  fresh  ra^berries ; 
and  the  day  following  do  the  same.  Then  drain  off  the  liquor 
without  pressing,  and  pass  it  through  a  jelly  bag,  (previously 
wetted  with  plain  vinegar)  into  a  stone  jar,  with  a  pound  of 
poiinded  lump  sugar  to  each  pint.    Wh^  the  sugar  is  dissolved. 


296  BOMBSTIC  COOKERY. 

stir  it  upj  cover  down  the  jar^  and  set  it  in  m  sauoe-pan  of 
water,  and  keep  it  boiling  for  an  hour,  taking  off  the  acum ; 
add  to  each  pint  a  glass  of  brandy,  and  bottle  it :  mixed  in 
about  eight  parts  of  water,  it  is  a  very  refreshing  and  delight- 
ful summer  drink.  An  excellent  cooling  beverage  to  ^asoage 
thirst  in  ardent  fevers,  colds,  and  inflammatory  complaints^ 
&C.  and  is  agreeable  to  most  palates. 

Sjfrup  of  Ltwum$, 

The  best  season  for  lemons  is  from  November  to  March. 
Put  a  pint  of  fresh  lemon  juice  to  a  pound  and  three  quarters 
of  lump  sugar ;  dissolve  it  by  a  gentle  heat,  scum  it  till  the 
surface  is  quite  clear,-- <add  an  ounce  of  thin  cut  lemon  peel ;  let 
them  simmer  (very  gently)  together  for  a  few  minutes,  and 
run  it  through  a  flannel.  When  cold,  bottle  ancl  cork  it  dose* 
ly,  and  keep  it  in  a  cool  place. 

Orange  Sj^mp^  for  Pwnehcr  Pudding*. 

Squeeze  the  oranges,  and  strain  the  juice  from  the  pulp 
into  a  large  pot:  boil  it  up  with  a  pound  and  a  half  of  fine 
sugar  to  each  pint  of  juice ;  skim  it  well,  let  it  stand  till  cold, 
and  then  bottle  it,  and  cork  it  well. 

This  makes  a  fine,  soft,  mellow- flavoured  punch ;  and, 
added  to  melted  butter,  u  a  good  relish  to  puddings. 

Sifmp  of  Orange^  or  Lemon  Peel. 

Of  fresh  onter  raid  of  Seville  or  lemon  peel,  three  ounces, 
apothecaries'  weight ;  boiling  water,  a  pint  and  a  half;  infuse 
them  for  a  night  in  a  close  vessel ;  then  strain  the  liquor;  let  it 
stand  to  settle ;  and  having  poured  it  off  clear  from  the  sedi« 
ment,  dissolve  in  it  two  pounds  of  double  refined  loaf  sugar, 
.  and  make  it  into  a  syrup  with  a  gentle  heat 

In  making  this  syrup,  if  .the  sugar  be  dissolved  in  the  in- 
.fusion  with  as  gentle  a  heat  as  possible,  to  prevent  the  exhala- 
tion of  the  volatile  parts  of  the  peel,  this  syrup  will  poesesa  a 
l^reat  share  of  the  fine  flavour  of  the  orange,  or  lemon-ped. 

Tarragon  Vinegar, 
This  is  a  very  agreeable  addition  to  soups,  and  to  mix  rous- 
,tanL     Fill  a  wide-mouthed  bottle  with  fresh-gathered  tarn;- 


BROTHS,  SOtJPS,  GRAVIBS,  AND  SAUCES.  297 

g<m  leavesi  t.  f.  between  midsummer  and  Michaelmas,  (wliich 
should  be  (fathered  on  a  dry  day,  just  before  it  flowers,) 
and  pickle  leaves  off  the  stalks,  and  dry  them  a  little  before 
the  fire ;  cover  them  with  the  best  vinegar,  let  them  steep  four- 
teen  dayt,  then  slmin  through  a  flannel  jelly  bag  till  it  is  €ne, 
then  pour  it  into  half-pint  bottles ;  cork  thefn  careftiUy,  and 
•keep  them  in  a  dry  place. 

You  may  prepare  elder  flowers  and  herbs  in  the  same 
manner ;  elder  and  tarragon  are  those  in  most  general  use  in 
this  country. 

Our  neighbours,  the  French,  prepare  vinegars  flavoured 
with  celery,  cucumbers,  capsicums^  garlic,  eschalot^  onion, 
capers,  chervil^  cress  seed,  bumet,  trufiles,  Seville  orange  peel, 
ginger,  &c.  in  short,  they  impregnate  them  with  almost  evej^ 
herb,  fruit,  flower,  and  spice  separately^  and  in  innumerable 
combinations. 

Basil  Vinegar,  or  Wine, 

Sweet  basO  is  in  full  perfection  about  the  middle  of  August. 
Pill  a  wide-mouthed  botUe  with  the  fresh  green  leaves  of  baail^ 
(these  give  much  finer  and  more  flavour  than  the  dried,)  and 
cover  them  with  vinegar,  or  wine,  and  let  them  steep  for  ten 
days;  if  you  wish  a  very  strong  essence,  strain  the  liquor,  put 
it  on  some  fresh  leaves,  and  let  them  steep  fourteen  days  more. 
This  is  8  very  agreeable  addition  to.  sauces  and  soups. 

It  is  a  secret  the  makers  of  mock  turtle  may  thank  us  for 
telling;  a  table-spoonful,  put  in  when  the  soup  is  finished,  will 
impr^rnate  a  tureen  of  soup  with  the  basil  and  acid  flavours, 
at  a  very  small  cost,  when  fre^  basil  and  lemons  are  extrava- 
gantly dear. 

The  flavour  of  the  other  sweet  and  savoury  herbs,  celery, 
icd,  may  be  procured,  and  preserved  in  the  same  manner,  by 
infbsing  them  in  wine  or  vinegar. 

Cresi  Vinegar. 

Dry  and  pound  half  an  ounce  of  cress  seed,  (such  as  is 
sown  in  the  garden  with  mustard,)  pour  upon  it  a  quart  of  tha- 
best  vinegar,  let  it  steep  ten  days,  shaking  it  up  every  day. 

This  is  very  strongly  flavoured  with  cress  and  for  salads ; 
and  cold  meats,  &c.  it  is  a  great  favourite  with  many.     The 
11  2q 


298  DOMESTIC  COOKBRY. 

quart  of  sauce  costs  only  a  half-penny  more  than  the  vinegar. 
Celery  vinegar  is  made  in  the  same  manner. 

Green  Mint  Vinegar 

Is  made  precisely  in  the  same  manner,  and  with  the  same 
proportions,  as  the  foregoing. 

In  the  early  season  of  housed-lamb,  grtsen  mint  is  8om»- 
times  not  to  be  got ;  the  above  is  then  a  welcome  substitate* 

Burnet  or  Cucumber  Vinegar. 

This  is  made  in  precisely  the  same  manner  as  cress  vinegar. 
The  flavour  of  bumet  resembles  cucumber  so  exactly,  that 
when  infused  in  vmegar,  the  nicest  palate  would  pronounce  it 
to  be  cucumber. 

This  is  a  very  favourite  relish  with  cold  meat,  salads,  &c. 
Burnet  is  in  best  season  from  midsummer  to  Michaebnas. 

Horseradish  Vinegar, 

Horseradish  is  in  the  highest  perfection  about  November. 

Pour  1^  quart  of  best  vinegar  on  three  ounces  of  scraped 
horseradish,  an  ounce  of  minced  eschalot,  and  one  dram  of 
cayenne ;  let  it  stand  a  week,  and  you  will  have  an  excellent 
relish  for  cold  beef,  salads,  &c.  costing  scarcely  any  thing. 

A  portion  of  black  pepper  and  mustard,  celery  or  cress* 
seed,  may  be  added  to  the  above. 

Garlic  Vinegar. 

Garlic  is  ready  for  this  purpose  from  midsummer,  to 
Michaelmas. 

Peel  and  chop  two  ounces  of  garlic,  pour  on  them  a  quart 
of  white-wine  vinegar,  stop  the  jar  close,  and  let  it  steep  ten 
days,  shaking  it  well  every  day ;  then  pour  off  the  clear  liquoc 
iuto  small  bottles. 

The  cook  must  be  carelul  not  to  use  too  much  of  this :  a  few 
drops  of  it  will  give  a  pint  of  gravy  a  sufficient  smack  of  the 
garlic:  the  flavour  of  which,  when  slight,  and  well  blended, 
is  one  of  the  finest  we  have ;  when  used  in  excess,  it  is  the 
most  offensive. 


r 


«■ 


BROTHS,  SOUPd,  ORAYIBS,  AND  SAUCES.  209 

•  The  best  way  to  use  garlic  is  to  send  up  some  of  this  vine- 
gar in  a  cruet,  and  let  the  company  flavour  their  own  sauce  as 
tfiey  like. 

Etehalot  Vinegar, 

Eschalot  vinegar  is  made  in  the  same  manner  as  the  above^ 
and  the  cook  should  never  be  without  one  of  these  useful  auxi- 

« 

liaries;  they  cost  scarcely  any  thing  but  the  little  trouble  of 
makings  and  will  save  a  great  deal  of  trouble  in  flavouring 
soups  and  sauces  with  a  taste  of  onion. 

Eschalots  are  in  high  perfection  during  July,  August,  and 
September. 

Eschalot  Wine. 

Peel,  mince^  and  pound  in  a  mortar,  three  ounces  of  escha- 
lots, and  infuse  them  in  a  pint  of  sherry  for  ten  days ;  then 
pour  off  the  clear  liquor  on  three  ounces  more  shalots,  and  let 
the  wine  stand  on  them  ten  days  longer. 

This  is  rather  the  most  expensive,  but  infinitely  the  most 
elegant  preparation  of  eschalot,  and  imparts  the  onion  flavour 
to  soups  and  sauces,  for  chops,  steaks,  or  boiled  meats,  hashes, 
&c.  more  agreeably  than  any :  it  does  not  leave  any  unpleasant 
taste  in  the  mouth,  or  to  the  breath, — nor  repeat,  as  almost  all 
the  other  preparations  of  garlic,  onion,  &c.  do. 

An  ounce  of  scraped  horseradish  may  be  added  to  the 
above,  and  a  little  thin  cut  lemon  peel. 

Camp  Finegar. 
Slice  a  large  head  of  garlic,  and  put  it  into  a  wide-mouthed 
bottle,  with  half  an  ounce  of  cayenne,  two  tea-spoonfuls  of 
soy,  two  of  walnut  catsup,  four  anchovies  chopped,  a  pint  of 
vinegar,  and  enough  cochineal  to  give  it  the  colour  of  laven- 
der drops.  Let  it  stand  six  week  ;  then  strain  it  off  quite  clear, 
and  keep  it  in  small  bottles  sealed  up. 

Chili  or  Cayenne  Wine.  • 

Pound  ^nd  steep  fitly  fresh  red  chilies»  or  a  quarter  of  an 
ounce  of  Cayenne  pepper,  in  half  a  pint  of  brandy,  white 
wine,  or  claret,  for  fourteen  days. 


300  DOMBSTIC  COOKERY. 

This  is  a  hmne  houche  for  the  lovers  of  cayenne,  of  whidi 
it  takes  up  a  larger  proportion  of  its  flavour  than  of  its  fire.: 
which  being  instantly  diffused,  it  is  a  very  useful  auxiliary  t^  v 

warm  and  finish  soups  and  sauces,  &c.  : 

Essence  of  Lemon  Peel. 

Wash  and  brush  dean  the  lemons ;  let  them  get  perfectly 
dry :  take  a  lump  of  loaf  sugar,  and  rub  them  till  all  the  yd- 
low  rind  is  taken  up  by  Ihe  sugar ;  scrape  off  the  surface  of  tb^  ^ 

sugar  into  a  preserving  pot,  and  press  it  hard  down ;  cover  it 
very  dose,  and  it  will  keep  for  some .  time.  In  the  same  way 
you  may  get  the  essence  of  Seville  orange  peel. 

This  method  of  procuring  and  preserving  the  flavour  of 
lemon  peel,  by  making  tjfn  Oko^sactharum,  is  far  superior  to 
the  common  practice  of  paring  off  the  rind,  or  grating  it,  and 
pounding,  or  mixing  that  with  sugar:  by  this  process,  yon 
obtain  the  whole  of  the  fine,  fragrant,  essential  oil,  in  which  is 
contained  the  flavour. 

Essence  of  AUsptee. 

Take  a  dram  of  the  oil  of  pimento,  and  mix  it  by  degrees 
with  two  ounces  of  strong  spirit  of  wine.  A  few  drops  will 
give  the  flavour  of  allspice  to  a  pint  of  gravy,  or  mulled  wine. 

Tincture  of  Lemon  Peel. 

A  very  easy  and  economical  way  of  obtaining  and  pr^ 
serving  the  flavour  of  lemon  peel,  is  to  fill  a  wide-moudied 
pint  bottle  half  full  of  brandy,  rum,  or  proof  spirit ;  and 
when  you  use  a  lemon,  pare  the  rind  off  very  thin,  and  put  it 
into  the  brandy,  &c.— in  a  fortnight,  it  will  impregnate  the 
spirit  with  the  flavour  very  strongly. 

Essence  of  Anchovy. 

Put  into  a  marble  morUr  ten  or  twelve  fine  mellow  ancho- 
vies, that  have  been  well  pickled,  and  pound  them  to  a  pulp. 
Put  this  into  a  clean  well  tinned  sauce-pan,  then  put  a  table- 
spoonful  of  cold  water  into  the  mortar,  shake  it  round,  and 
pour  it  to  the  pounded  anchovies.  Set  them  by  the  side  of  a 
slow  fire,  frequently  stirring  them  together  till  they  are  melted, 
which  they  will  be  in  the  course  of  five  minutes.    Now  stir  in 


BROTHS,  SOVFS,  ORAVIBS,  ANI^  SAUCES.  001 

m  quarter  of  a  <lrain  of  good  cayenne,  and  let  it  remain  by  the 
fire  a  few  minutes  longer.  Rub  it  through  a  hair  sievsi 
:with  the-  jiia^k  of  a  wooden^  spoon,  and  keep  it  stopped  very 
closdy :  if  the  air  gets  to  it,  it  b  spoiled  directly,  fiaaence  of 
anchovy  is  made  sometimes  with  sherry,  or  madeira,  instead 
of  water,  or  with  the  addition  of  mushroom  catsup. 

Anchovy  Paste. 

Pound  them  in  a  mortar,  rub  the  pulp  through  a  fine  sieve, 
pot  it,  cover  it  with. clarified  butter,  and  keep  it  in  a  cool  place.' 
The  paste  may  also  be  made  by  rubbing  the  essence  with  as 
much  flour  as  will  make  a  paste ;  but  this  is  only  intended  for 
inunediate  use,  #nd  will  not  keep.  This  is  aometimes  made 
atlfler  and  hotter,  by  the  addition  of  a  little  flour  of  mustard^ 
a  pickled  walnut,  spice,  or  cayenne. 

Anchovy  Powder, 

Pound  the  fish  in  a  mortar,  rub  them  through  a  sieve,  mak^ 
them  into  a  paste  with  dried  flour,  roll  it  into  thin  cakes,  and 
dry  them  in  a  Dutch  oven  before  a  slow*  fire.  To  this  may  be 
added  a  small  portion  of  cayenne,  grated  lemon  peel,  and  citric 
acid.  Pounded  to  a  fine  powder,  and  put  into  a  well^stopped 
bottle,  it  will  keep  for  years.  It  is  a  very  savoury  relish^ 
sprinkled  on  bread  and  butter  for  a  sandwich. 

Essence  of  Celery, 

Steep  in  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  brandy,  or  proof  spirit, 
half  an  ounce  of  celery  seed  bruised,  and  let  it  sund  a  fort- 
night. A  few  drops  will  immediately  flavour  a  pint  of  broth, 
and  are  an  excellent  addition  to  peas,  and  other  soups. 

Essence  of  Ginger. 

Grate  three  ounces  of  ginger,  and  an  ounce  of  thin  lemon 
peel,  into  a  quart  of  brandy,  or  proof  spirit,  and  let  it  stand 
for  ten  days,  shaking  it  up  each  day.  If  ginger  is  taken  to 
produce  an  immediate  effect,  to  warm  the  stomach,  or  dispel 
flatulence,  this  will  be  found  the  best  preparation. 

Essence  of  Oysters, 

Take  fine  fresh  Milton  oysters,  wash  them  in  their  own 
liquor,  skim  it,  and  pound  them  in  a  marble  mortar.    To  a 


■*■*— — WP^x—  — w^^^^^^^^i^^Mi^^—i^^— ^^^^^^"^^^ 


902  ^  lK>li^E8tlC  COOKBRT. 

pint  of  oysters  add  a  pint  of  sherry^  boil  them  up^  and  add  ah 
oance  of  salt^  two  drams  of  pounded  mace,  and  one  of  cay- 
enne. Let  it  just  boil  up  again,  sJEim  it,  a^  rub  it  through 
a  sieve.  When  cold,  bottle  and  cork  it  wel*  and  seal  it  down; 
This  composition  very  agreeably  heightens  the  flavour  of  white 
sauces,  and  white  made  dishes.  If  a  glass  of  brandy  be  added 
to  the  essence,  it  will  keep  a  considerable  time  longer  than 
oysters  are  out  of  season. 

ReUihfor  Chaps^  Spe. 

Pound  fine  an  ounce  of  black  p^per,  and  half  an  ounce  of 
allspice,  with  an  ounce  of  salt,  and  half  an  ounce  of  scraped 
horseradish,  and  the  same  of  eschalot  peeled  and  quartered ; 
put  these  ingredients  into  a  pint  of  mushroom  catsup,  or  wal-i 
nut  pickle,  and  let  them  steep  for  a  fbrtnight,  and  then  strain  it. 

A  tea-spoonful  or  two  of  this  is  generally  an  acceptable 
addition,  mixed  with  the  gravy  usually  sent  up  for  (hops  and 
steaks ;  or  added  to  thick  melted  butter. 

Walnut  Catsup. 

Take  six  half  sieves  of  green  walnut  shells,  put  them  into 
a  tub,  mix  them  up  well  with  common  salt,  from  two  to  three 
pounds,  let  them  stand  for  six  days,  frequently  beating  and 
mashing  them  ;  by  this  time  the  shells  become  soft  and  palpy> 
then  by  banking  it  up  on  one  side  of  th^  tub,  and  at  the  same 
time  by  raising  the  tub  on  that  side,  the  liquor  w31  drain  clear 
off  to  the  other ;  then  take  that  liquor  out :  the  mashing  and 
banking  up  may  be  repeated  as  often  as  liquor  is  found.  The 
quantity  will  be  about  six  quarts.  When  done,  let  it  be  sim- 
mered in  an  iron  bailer  as  long  as  any  scum  arises ;  then  bruise  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  .ginger,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  allspice, 
two  ounces  of  long  pepper,  two  ounces  of  cloves,  with  the 
above  ingredients,  let  it  slowly  boil  for  half  an  hour :  when 
bottled,  let  an  equal  quantity  of  the  spice  go  into  each  bqi^e  ; 
when  corked,  let  the  bottles  be  filled  quite  up :  cork  ijiem 
tight,  seal  them  over,  and  put  into  a  cool  and  dry  place  for  one 
year  before  it  is  used. 

Mushroom  Catsup. 

If  you  love  good  catsup,  make  it  yourself,  after  the  follow- 
ing directions,  and  you  will  have  a  delicious  relish  for  made 
dishes,  ragouts,  soups,  sauces  or  hashes. 


BROTHS,  SOUPS,  GRAVIES^  AND  SAUCBS.  909 

MaBhroom  gravy  approaches  the  nature  and  flavour  of  meat 
l^ravy  more  than  any  vegetable  juice  ;  and  is  the  most  super* 
lative  substitute  for  it,  in  mqagre  soups  and  extempore  gravies, 
the  chemistry  of  tf*e  kitchen  has  yet  contrived  to  agreeably 
awaken  the  palate,  and  encourage  the  appetite. 

A  couple  of  quarts  of  double  catsup,  made  accordii^  to  the 
following  receipt,  will  save  you  some  score  pounds  of  meat, 
besides  a  vast  deal  of  time  and  trouble,  as  it  will  furnish,  in  a 
few  minutes,  as  good  sauce  as  can  bo  made  for  either  fish>  flesh, 
or  fowl. 

We  believe  the  following,  is  the  best  way  of  extracting  and 
preparing  the  essence  of  musliropms,  so  as  to  procure  and  pre- 
serve their  flavour  for  a  considerable  length  of  time. 

Look  out  for  mushrooms  from  the  beginning  of  September. 

Take  care  they  are  the  right  sort,  and  fresh  gathered.*    Full- 

)  I  grown  flaps  are  to  b^  preferred.     Put  a  layer  of  these  at  the 

{bottom  of  a  deep  earthen  pan,  and  sprinkle  them  with  salt, 

\  \  then  another  layer  of  mushrooms,  and  some  more  salt  on  them, 

and  80  on  alternately  salt  and  mushrooms ;  let  them  remain  two 

1  or  three  hours,  by  which  time  the  salt  will  have  penetrated  the 

mushrooms,  and  rendered  them  easy  to  break;  then  pound 

them  in  a  mortar,  or  mash  them  well  with  your  hands,  and  let 

them  remain  for  a  couple  of  days,  not  longer,  stirring  them 

up,  and  mashing  them  well  each  day ;  then  pour  them  into  a 

stone  jar,  and  to  each  %Hart  add  an  ounce  of  whole  black  pep* 

per ;  stop  the  jar  very  close,  and  set  it  in  a  stew-pan  of  boiling 

water,  and  keep  it  boiling  for  two  hours  at  least.     Take  out 

the  jar,  and  pour  the  juice  clear  from  the  settlings  through  a 

hair  sieve  (without  squeezing  the  mushrooms)  into  a.  clean 

stew-pan  ;  let  it  boil  very  gently  for  half  an  hour.    Those  who 

are  for  superlative  catsup,  will  continue  the'  boiling  till  the 

mushroom  juioe  is  reduced  to  half  the  quantity :  it  may  then 

be  called  double  cat-sup  or  dog-aup. 

There  are  several  advantages  attending  this  concentration ; 
it  will  keep  much  better,  and  only  half  the  quantity  he  re- 
quired; so  you  can  flavour  sauce,  &c.  without  thinning  it. 
Neither  is  this  an  extravagant  way  of  making  it,  for  merely  the 
aqueous  part  is  evaporated.  Skim  it  well,  and  pour  it  into  a 
clean  dry  jar,  or  jug;  cover  it  close,  and  let  it  stand  in  a  cool 
place  till,  next  day,  then  pour  it  off  as  gently  as  possible,  (so  as 


I 


804  OOME&TIC  COOKERY. 

not  to  disturb  the  settlings  at  the  bottom  of  the  jug,)  through 
aUmmis,  or  thick  flannel  bag,  till  it  is  perfectly  clear;  add  a 
table-spoonful  of  good  brandy  to  each  pint  of  catsup,  and  let 
it  stand  as  before;  a  fresh  sediment  will  be  deposited,  from 
which  the  catsup  is  to  be  quietly  poured  off,  and  bottled  in 
pints  or  half  pints,  which  have  been  washed  with  brandy  or 
^irie.    It  is  best  to  keep  it  in  such  quantities  as  are  soon  used. 

Take  especial  care  that  it  is  closely  corked,  and  sealed  down, 
or  dipped  in  bottle  cement. 

If  kept  in  a  cool,  dry  place,  it  may  be  preserved  for  a  long 
time ;  but  if  it  foe  badly  corked,  and  kept  in  a  damp  place,  it 
will  soon  spoil.  Examine  it  from  time  to  time,  by  placing  a 
strong  light  behind  the  neck  of  the  bottle,  and  if  any  peilide 
appears  about  it,  boil  it  up  again  with  a  few  peppercorns. 

A  table-spoonful  of  double  catsup  wiU  impregnate  half  a 
pint  of  sauce  with  ^e  full  flavour  of^  mushroom,  in  much 
greater  perfection  than  either  piddled  or  powder  of  mush- 
rooms. ^ 

QuinUssence  of  Mushrooms. 

This  delicate  relish  is  made  by  sprinkling  a  Httle  salt  over 
either 'flap  or  button  mushrooms;  three  hours  after,  mash  them; 
next  day  strain  off  the  liquor  that  will  flow  from  them,  put  it 
into  a  stew-pan,  and  boil  it  till  it  is  reduced  to  half. 

It  will  not  keep  long,  but  is  preferable  to  any  of  the  cat- 
sups, which  in  order  to  preserve  them,  must  have  spices,  &e. 
which  overpowers  the  flavour  of  the  mushrooms. 

An  artificial  mushroom  bed  will  supply  this  all  the  year 
round. 

To  dry  MuAroouu. 

Wipe  them  dean ;  and  of  the  large  take  out  the  brown^ 
and  peel  off  the  skin.  Lay  them  on  a  paper  to  dry  in  a  cool 
oven,  and  keep  them  in  paper  bags,  in  a  dry  place.  When 
used  simmer  them  in  the  gravy,  and  they  will  swell  to  near 
their  former  axe;  to  simmer  them  In  their  own  liquor  till  it 
dry  up  into  them,  shaking  the  pan,  then  drying  on  tin  plates, 
is  a  good  way,  with  spice  or  not,  before  made  into  powder. 

Tie  down  with  bladder;  and  keep  in  a  dry  place,  or  ia 
paper. 


f 


BROTHS,  aOVPty  G1tAVI»B>  AVD  SAUCES.  806 

Muihroam  P&wdtr. 

#       •  Wksh  half  a  peck  of  large  mushrooms  while  quite  fresh;^ 

and  free  them  from  grit  and  dirt  wilih  flannel ;  scrape  out  the 
black  part  clean,  and  do  not  use  any  that  are  worm-eaten  ;  put 
them  into  a  stew-pan  over  the  fire  without  water,  with  two 
large  onions,  some  cloves^  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  mace,  and 
two  spoonfhls  of  white  pepper,  aD  in  powder;  simmer  and 
shake  them  till  all  the  liquor  he  dried  up,  but  be  careful  the^ 
don't  bum.  Lay  them  on  tins  or  sieves  in  a  slow  oven  till  they 
are  dry  enough  to  beat  to  powder,  dien  put  the  powder  in 
small  bottles,  corked,  and  tied  closely,  and  keep  in  a  dry 
place. 

A  tea 'Spoonful  will  give  a  very  fine  flavour  to  any  soup  oi 
gravy,  or  any  sauce ;  and  ii  is  to  be  added  just  before  servings 
snd  prie  boil  gfVen  to  it  after  it  h  put  in. 


^ 


MkeeOemi  Cat»Up  which  will  keep  go^d  mare  than  Twenty 
M  Years, 

Take  two  gallbns  of  stale  strong  beer,  or  ale,  Ihe  stfonge^r 
and  staler  the  bettef ;  a  pound  of  anchovies,  washed  and  cleans- 
ed from  the  guts ;  half  an  ounce  eadi  of  mace  and  elopes ;  a 
quarter  of  an  o«nee  of  pepper ;  six  Isfrge  races  of  ginger ;  a 
^Mrand  of  4)doti ;  and  two  quarts,  or  more,  of  iap  mush- 
reomSy  well  rubbed  and  picked.  Boil  all  these  over  a  slow  fire 
biw  hotnr ;  then  strsin  the  liquor  through  a  fknnel  bag,  and  \H 
it  stand  till  quite  cold,  when  it  must  be  bottled  and  stopped 
i^ery  el>ise,  witb  cork  and  bkddet,  or  leather. 

One  spoonful  of  tins  fine  catsup  to  a  pint  of  melted  bofv 
ter,  gives  soeh  admirable  taste  and  colour,  as  a  fish-sauce, 
that  is  by  many  pei'sons  preferred  even  to  the  best  Indiafk 
aoy.  ■     ■•         •  V--" 

Oyster  Catsup. 

Take  fine  fresh  Milton  oyster?;  wash  them  in  their  own 
liqaeir,  skim  it,  pound  them  in  a  miaiblemortsir;  to  a  pint  of 
ejrste^  add  a  pint  ef  sherry,  boil  them  tip,  and  add  an  onnoa 
of  salt,  two  drams  of  pounded  mace^  and  otae  of  cayenne;  let 
it  jost  boil  up  agahi,  skhn  it,  and  rob  thrdugh  a  sieve;  and 
wHea  cold,  bottle  it,  itmi  cotk  it  well>  and  seal  it  down,  h  is 
the  belt  itmy  to  i(»mtA  the  silt  and  spioes,  8tc^  with  the  oystsvs^ 
11  2k 


i 


\ 


d06  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

This  compogidon.  very  agreeably  heightens  the  flavour  of 
white  sauces,  and  white  made  dishes ;  and  if  you  add  a  glass 
of  brandy  to  it,  it  will  keep  good  for  a  considerable  time  longer 
than  oysters  are  out  of  season  in  England. 

4 

Cockle  and  Muscle  Catsup* 

These  catsups  may  be  made  by  treating  them  in  the  same 
way  as  the  oysters  in  the  preceding  receipt. 

Potato  Starch. 

Peel  and  wash  a  pound  of  full  grown  potatoes,  grate  them 
on  a  bread  grater  into  a  deep  dish,  containing  a  quart  of  clear 
water;  stir  it  well  up,  and  then  pour  it  through  a  hair  sieve, 
and  leave  it  ten  minutes  to  settle,  till  the  water  is  quite  dear : 
then  pour  off  the  water,  and  put  a  quart  of  fresh  water  to  it, 
stir  it  up,  let  it  settle,  and  repeat  this  till  the  water  is  ^nite 
dear ;  you  will  at  last  find  a  fine' white  powder  at  the  bottom  of 
the  vessel.  (The  criterion  of  this  process  being  completed,  is 
•the  purity  of  the  water  that  comes  from  it  after  stirring  it  up.) 
Lay  this  on  a  sheet  of  paper  in  a  hair  sieve  to  dry,  either  in  the 
sun,  or  before  the  fire,  and  it  is  ready  for  use,  and  in  a  well 
stopped  bottle  will  keep  good  for  many  months. 

If  this  be  well  made,  half  an  ounce  (t.  e.  a  table-spomi- 
ful)  of  it  mixed  with  two  table-spoonfuls  of  cold  water,  and 
atiiTed  into  a  soup  or  sauce,  just  before  you  take  it  up,  will 
thicken  a  pint,  of  it  to  the  consistence  of  cream. 

This  preparation  much  resembles,  the  Indian  arrow  root» 
and  is  a  good  substitute  for  it ;  it  gives  a  fulness  on  the  palate 
;to  gravies  and  sauces  at  hardly  any  expense,  and  by  some  is 
:used  to  thicken. melted  butter  instead  of  flour. 

As  it  is  perfectly  tasteless,  it  will  not  alter  the  flavour  of 
the  most  delicate  broth,  &c. 

Savoury  .Ragout  Powder. 

Take  of  salt,  an  ounce ;  mustard,  half  an  ounce ;  allspice,  b. 
quarter  of  an  ounce ;  black  pepper  ground,  and  lemon  peel  grat« 
ed,  (or  of  pounded  and  sifled  fine,)  half  an  ounce  eadi ;  ginger, 
and  nutmeg  grated,  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  each ;  cayenne  pepper, 
two  drams.  Pound  them  patiently,  and  pass  them  through  a 
fine  hair  sieve ;  bottle  them  for  use.    The  above  articles  will 


SAYOtlftT  PtfiS  AND  PATtlES.  tlCff 

pound  etsier,  and  finer,  if  they  are  dried  first  in  a  Dutdi 
^rea  before  a  very  gentle  fire,  at  a  good  distance  from  it:  if 
you  give  them  much  heat,  the  fine  flavour  of  them  will  be 
presently  evaporated,  and  they  will  soon  get  a  strong  empy« 
veumatic  taste.  Infused  in  a  quart  of  vinegar  or  wine,'  they 
shake  a  savoury  relish  for  soups,  sauces;  &c. 

The  spices  in  a  ragout  are  indispensable  to  give  it  a  flavour;- 
but  not  a  predominant  one ;  their  presence  should  be  rather 
supposed  than  perceived ;  they  are  the  invisible  spirit  of  good 
cookery :  indeed,  a  cook  without  spice  would  be  as  much  at 
a  loss  as  a  confectioner  without  sugar:  a  happy  mixture  of 
them,  and  proportion  to  each  other,  and  the  other  ingredients, 
is  the  ckef-d'ceuvre  of  a  first-rate  cook. 

Pea  Powder. 

Pound  together  in  a  marble  mortar  half  an  ounce  each  of 
dried  mint  and  sage,  a  dram  of  celery  seed,  and  a  quarter 
dram,  of  Cayenne  pepper ;  rub  them  through  a  fine  sieve.  This 
gives  a  very  savoury  relish  to  peas  soup,  and  to  water  gruel, 
which,  by  its  help,  if  the  eater  of  it  has  not  the  most  lively 
imagination,  he  may  fancy  he  is  sipping  good  peas  soup. 

A  dram  of  allspice,  or  black  pepper,  may  be  pounded  with 
the  above,  as  an  addition,  or  instead  of  the  cayenne. 


SAVOURY  PIES  AND  PATTIES. 

Observations  on  Savoury  Pies  and  Patties. 

There  are  few  articles  of  cookery  more  generally  liked  than 
relishing  pies  and  patties,  if  properly  made ;  and  they  may  be 
made  so  of  a  vast  variety  of  things. 

There  are  several  things  necessary  to  be  particularly  observe 
ed  by  the  cook,  in  order  that  her  labours  and  ingenuity  under 
this  head  mav  be  brouffht  to  their  proper  degree  of  perfection. 


Qm  very  mat^ruil  jconsiderAtion  vitut  be^  that  the  heft  pC  4ikm 
Qvea  i#  iytlj  proportionec)  to  thj^  nature  of  the  arti<de.  to  be 
1^^,  Lig^t  past^  irequircus  a  moderate  OYen ;  if  it  is  to9 
quicl^^  the  crust  cannot  ris^j  and  will  thereibre  be  bum^ ;  twd 
if  too  slow,  it  will  be^  spddened,  and  want  that  delicate  light 
brown  it  ought  to  have.  Raised  pies  must  have  a  quick  ovepj 
and  be  well  closed  up^  or  they  will  sink  in  their  sides,  and  lose 
their  proper  shape.  .  . 

Particular  care  is  also  requisite  in  respect  to  seasoning,  which 
niu^  be  always  done  without  any  fixed  rules,  agreeable  to  tb^ 
^te  of  the  maker.  When  pies  are  intended  to  be  eat^n  oc^d, 
the  use  of  su^t  must  be  avoided.  Forcemeat  is  a  wondairfiil 
improvement  to  all  meat  pies. 

As  respects  the  managing  of  savoury  patties  little  need  be 
said,  except  that  they  nfill  require  a  quick  oven.  Twenty 
minutes  will  in  general  be  found  sufficient  to  bake  thenu  If 
you  pour  in  gravy  after  the  patties  are  taken  out  of  the  oven, 
^e  careful  not  to  put  in  too  much,  lest  it  should  run  out  at  the 
sides,  and  spoil  their  appearance. 

SAVOURY  PIES. 

Paste  for  Meat  or  Savoury  Pies, 

Sift  two  pounds  of  fine  flour  to  one  and  a  half  of  good  salt 
butter,  break  it  into  small  pieces,  and  wash  it  well  in  cold 
water ;  rub  gently  together  the  butter  and  flour,  and  mix  it  up 
with  the  yolks  of  three  eggs,  beat  together  with  a  spoon,  and 
nearly  a  pint  of  spring  water ;  roll  it  out,  and  double  it  in 
folds  three  time?,  and  it  is  ready. 

Raised  Pies, 

Put  two  pounds  and  a  half  of  flour  on  the  paste-board,  and 
put  on  the  fire  in  a  sauce-pan  three  quarters  of  a  pint  of  water, 
and  half  a  pouna  of  good  lard  ;  when  the  water  boils,  make  a 
hole  in  the  middle  of  the  flour,  pour  in  the  water  by  degreea, 
gently  mixing  the  flour  with  it  with  a  spopn  ;  and  when  it  is 
well  mixed,  then  knead  it  with  your  hands  till  it  becomes  stiff; 
dredge  a  little  floar  to  prevent  it  sticking  to  the  board,  or  yoa 
cannot  make  it  look  smooth :  do  not  roll  it  with  the  rollings 
pin,  but  roll  it  with  your  hands  about  the  thickne^  of  a  quart 


SAVOjDR¥  FtB8  AN d  PATTIES.  tOS 


fglti  €n|i|i«tq«)(  ptoMt,  laaving  a  little  for  ftbe  o^ittB;  put 
aoe  b«od  in  ihe  mvUle,  and  keep  Uie  other  doae  on  the  oat* 
m4»  tyi  you  bave  worked  it  eitWr  in  an  oval  or  a  round  shape  f 
have  your  meat  rea<)y  wt,  and  aiaicwed  with  pepper  and  aalt: 
if  pork,  cut  it  la  small  slices ;  the  griskin  is  the  best  for  pas- 
ties. If  you  use  mutton^  cvft  it  in  very  neat  cutlets^  and  put 
^bem  in  the  pies  as  you  make  thfm :  roll  ontithe  cov^acs  wit^  the 
xolling-pin  jgst  the  size  of  the  pie,  wef  it  r9and-  the  ^A§^,  pi^ 
^  on  the  pie»  and  pre^s  it  together  with  yfigr  thumb  fu^  fin^^ 
and  then  cut  ^t  all  round  with  a  pair  of  fpi^si^rs  qoi(e  ^vcn»  tmi 
pincti  th^m  inside  apd  out,  and  bak^  then^  aiji  })^  t^^  a  }i4ff 

Rump  Steak  PU. 

Cot  three  pounds  of  r^opp  steaks  (ftiaX  hi^y^  b^a  kept  UU 
tender,)  into  pieces  lialf  as  big  as  your  hand,  trim  off  idl  the 
skin,  sinews,  and  every  p^rt  w^cb  {14s  not  indisputable  pre- 
tensions to  be  eaten,  and  beat  them  with  a  chopper.  Chop  veiy 
fine  half  a  dozen  eschalots,  and  mix  them  with  half  an  ounce 
of  pepper  and  salt  mixed,  strew  some  of  the  mixture  at  the 
bottom  of  the  dish,  then  a  layer  of  steak,  then  some  more  of 
the  mixture,  and  so  on  till  the  dish  is  full ;  add  half  a  gill  of 
mushroom  catsup,  and  the  same  quantity  of  gravy,  or  red  wine, 
cover  it  with  paste,  made  as  directed  for  meat  pies,  and  bake 
it  two  hours. 

Large  oysters,  parboiled,  bearded,  and  laid  alternately 
with  the  steaks,  their  liquor  reduced  and  substituted  instead  of 
the  catsup  and  wine,  will  be  a  variety. 

Btef  Steak  Pie  the  tuual  waif. 

Take  some  rump  steaks,  and  beat  them  with  a  rolling-pin, 
then  season  them  with  pepper  and  salt  to  your  palate.    Mdce  a 
good  crust,  lay  in  your  steaks,  and  then  pour  in  as  much  water 
as  will  fill  the  dish.     Put  on  the  crust,  send  it  to  the  oven,  and 
let  it  be  well  baked. 

Mutton  Pie, 

Cut  steaks  ftom  a  neck  or  loin  of  mutton  that  has  hung  ; 
beat  them,  and  remove  some  of  the  'fat     Season  with  salty 
pepper,  and  a  little  onion ;  put  a  little  water  at  the  bottom  oT 
the  dish,  and  a  little  paste  on  the  edge;  then  cover  with  a 


310  DOMESTIC   COO&fiftY. 

modeiatdy  thick  paste.  Or  raise  smail  ptes,  and 
eadi  bone  in  two  to  shorten  it^  season,  and  cover  it  over» 
pinching  the  edge.  When  they  come  out,  pour  into  each  a 
spoonful  of  gravy  made  of  a  bit  of  mutton. 

VealPU. 

Take  some  of  the  middle,  or  scrag  of  a  small  neck ;  season 
it ;  and  either  put  to  it,  or  not,  a  few  slices  of  lean  bacon  or 
ham.  If  it  is  wanted  of  a  high  relish,  add  mace,  cayenne,  and 
nutmeg,  to  the  salt  and  pepper ;  and  also  forcemeat  and  eggs  ; 
and  if  you  choose,  add  truffles,  morels,  mushrooms,  sweets 
breads  cut  into  small  bits,  and  cocks*-combs  blanched,  if  liked. 
Have  a  rich  gravy  ready,  to  pour  in  after  baking.  It  will  be 
very  good  without  any  of  the  latter  additions. 

j§  rich  Veal  Pie. 

Cut  steaks  from  a  neck  or  breast  of  veal ;  season  them  with 
pepper,  salt,  nutmeg,  and  a  very  little  clove  in  powder. 
Slice  jtwo  sweetbreads,  and  season  them  in  the  same  manner* 
Lay  a  puff  paste  on  the  ledge  of  the  dish  ;  then  put  the  meat, 
yolks  of  hard  eggs,  the  sweetbreads,  and  some  oysters,  up  to 
the  top  of  the  dish.  Lay  over  the  whole  some  very  thin  slices 
of  ham,  and  fill  up  the  dish  with  water ;  cover  ;  and  when  it 
is  taken  out  of  the  oven,  pour  in  at  the  top,  through  a  funnel, 
a  few  spoonfuls  of  good  veal  gravy,  and  some  cream  to  fill  up; 
but  first  boil  it  up  with  a  tea-spoonful  of  flour.  Truffles,  &c.  if 
approved. 

Veal  and  Parsley  Pie, 

Cut  some  slices  firom  the  leg  or  neck  of  veal ;  if  the 
leg,  from  about  the  knuckle.  Season  them,  with  salt ;  scald 
some  parsley  that  is  picked  from  the  stems,  and  squeeze  it  dry; 
cut  it  a  little,  and  lay  it  at  the  bottom  of  the  dish ;  then  put  the 
meat,  and  so  on,  in  kyers.  Fill  the  dish  with  new  milk,  but 
not  so  high  as  to  touch  the  crust.  Cover  it;  and  when  baked, 
pour  out  a  little  of  the  milk,  and  put  in  half  a  pint  of  good 
scalded  cream. 

Chicken  may  be  cut  up,  skinned^  and  made  in  tbe  same 
way. 


8AVOUET  PIBS  AND  PATTIBS.  811 

FadandHtrnPie. 

Take  two  pounds  of  veal  cuttet,  cut  them  in  middling^Bized 
pieces,  and  season  with  pepper  and  a  very  little  salt;  likewise 
one  of  raw  or  dressed  ham  cut  in  slices :  lay  it  alternately  in 
tibe  dishy  and  put  some  forced  or  sausage  meat  at  the  top,  with 
some  stewed  button  mushrooms,  and  the  jctts,  of  three  eggs 
boiled  hard,  and  a  gill  of  water,  and  proceed  as  with  rump 
steak  pie. 

The  best  end  of  a  neck  is  a  fine  part  for  a  pie,  cut  into 
chops,  and  the  chine  bone  taken  away. 

Feal  Olive  Pie. 

Cut  some  thin  slices  from  a  fillet  of  veal,  rub  them  over 
with  the  yolks  of  eggs,  and  strew  on  them  a  few  crumbs  of 
bread ;  shred  a  little  lemon  peel  very  fine,  and  put  it  on  them^ 
with  a  little  grated  nutmeg,  pepper,  and  salt ;  roll  them  up 
very  tight,  and  lay  them  in  a  pewter  dish ;  pour  over  them 
half  a  pint  of  good  gravy,  put  half  a  pound  of  butter  over  it, 
xnake  a  light  paste,  and  lay  it  round  the  dish.  Roll  the  lid  hiilf . 
an  inch  thick,  and  lay  it  on. 

Lamh  Pie. 

Make  it  of  the  loin,  neck,  or  breast ;  the  breast  of  house- 
lamb  is  one  of  the  most  delicate  things  that  can  be  eaten.  It 
should  be  very  lightly  seasoned  with  pepper  and  salt ;  the  bone 
taken  out,  but  not  the  gristles ;  and  a  small  quantity  of  jelly- 
gravy  be  put  in  hot ;  but  the  pie  should  not  be  cut  till  cold. 
Put  two  spoonfuls  of  water  before  baking. 

Grass-lamb  makes  an  excellent  pie,  and  may  either  be  boned 
or  net, — but  not  to  bone  it  is  perhaps  the  best.  Season  with 
only  pepper  and  salt;  put  two  spoonfuls  of  water  before 
bakii^,  and  as  much  gravy  when  it  comes  from  the  oven. 

Meat  pies  being  fat,  it  is  best  to  let  out  the  gravy  on  one 
side,  and  put  it  in  again  by  a  funnel,  at  the  centre,  and  a  little 
may  be  added. 

Raised  Lamh  Pies, 
Bone  a  loin  of  lamb,  cut  into  cutlets,  trim  them  very  nicely, 
and  lay  them  in  the  bottom  of  a  stew  or  frying-pan,  with  a^ 
ounce  of  butter,  a  tea-spoonful  of  lemon  juice,  and  some  pepper 


813  imMEsnc  eoosERT. 

and  salt ;  put  them  over  i  fire>  aihl  tiim  ihem^  and  put  them  to 
eool;  then  raise  four  or  five  small  pi^s'  with  pastey  abc^jit  the 
size  of  a  tea-eu|ij  put  some  veal  forcemeat  at  the  bottom,  and 
the  cutlets  upon  it;  roll  out  the  top  an  eighth  of  an  ineh  thick, 
dose  and  pinch  the  edges,  bake  them  half  an  houtj  and  when 
d<Mie,  take  off  tibe  U^^  and  pour  in  some  good  birown  sauce. 

Excellent  raised  Pork  Pies. 

Raise  cbmman  bdled  criist  ioto  either  around  or  oval  fi>rmy 
as  you  choose;  have  readj  the  triodtaitag  lind  small  bhs  of  pork 
cut  off  when  a  hog  is  killed ;  and  if  these  are  not  enough,  take 
the  meat  off  a  sweet  borie.  Beat  it  well  with  a  rolling-pin ; 
season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  keep  the  fat  and  lean  sdpak'ate. 
Put  it  in  layers,  quite  elose  up  to  the  top ;  ky  on  the  lid ; 
cut  the  edge  smooth  rodnd,  and  pinch  it ;  bake  it  in  a  slo# 
•oaking  oven,  as  the  meat  is  very  solid.  Directions  for  raising 
the  crust  have  been  given  before.  The  pork  mxy  bd  piit  into 
a  common  dish,  with  a  very  plain  crust ;  and  be  quite  as  good* 
Observe  to  put  no  bone  oi  water  into  pork  pie ;  the  otrtside 
of  the  pieces  will  be  hard,  unless  they  are  cut  small  and  firesaed 
dose. 

Raised  Ham  Pie. 

Soak  four  or  five  hours  a  small  ham,  wash  and  scrape  H 
Well,  cut  off  the  knuckle,  and  boil  it  for  half  an  hour,  then 
take  it  up  and  trim  it  very  neatly :  take  off  the  rind,  and  put  it 
into  an  oval  stelv-pan,  with  a  pint  of  tnadeira  or  sherty,  and 
enough  veal  stock  to  cover  it.  Let  it  stew  for  two  hours,  olr 
till  tktte  parts  done ;  take  it  out,  And  set  it  ifx  a  cold  piAce ; 
then  raise  a  crust,  as  in  the  following  receipt,  large  enough  to 
ireceive  it ;  put  in  the  ham,  and  round  it  the  veal  forcemeat : 
cover  and  otnament ;  it  will  take  about  one  hour  and  a  half*  to 
bake  it)  a  slow  oven :  when  done,  take  off  the  cover,  glaze  the 
top,  lind  poisr  rodnd  the  following  sauce,  viz.  Take  the  liqaoir 
the  ham  was  stewed  in,  skim  it  free  from  fat,  thicken  with  a 
little  flour  and  butter  mixed  together,  a  few  drops  of  brown- 
ing, and  some  Cayenne  pepper. 

The  aboVe  is  A  good  way  of  dressing  a  small  ham,  and  has 
a  good  efi^  odd  for  a  siipp^r. 


SAVOURY  PIB8  AMD  PATTIB8.  .         313 

RMi$ed  French  Pie* 

Mike  about  two  pounds  of  flour  into  a  paste,  as  directed 
fat  raised  pies;  knead  it  well,  and  into  the 'shape  of  a  ball; 
press  your  thumb  into  the  centre,  and  work  it  by  degrees  into 
Any  shape  (oval  or  round  is  the  most  general,)  till  about  Rve 
inches  high ;  put  it  on  a  sheet  of  paper,  and  fill  it  with  coarse 
flour  or  bran;  roll  out  a  covering  for  it  about  the  same  thick* 
ness  as  the  sides ;  cement  its  sides  with  the  yolk  of  egg ;  cut 
the  edges  quite  evto,  and  pinch  it  round  with  the  finger  and 
thumb ;  yolk  of  egg  it^over  with  a  paste  brush,  and  ornament  it 
in  any  way  as  fimcy  may  direct,  with  the  same  kind  of  paste. 
Bake  it  of  a  fine  brown  colour,  in  a  slowoven;  and  when  done, 
.cut  out  the  top,  remove  the  flour  or  bran,  brush  it  quite  dean, 
and  fill  it  up  with  a  firicassee  of  chicken,  rabbit,  or  any  other 
aUrfe  most  convenient.    Send  it  to  table  with  a  napkin  under. 

•  •  • 

Calf'i  Heoji  Pie. 

Stew  a  knudLle  €i  veal  till  fit  for  eating,  with  two  onions, 
a  few  isinglass  shavings,  a  bunch  of  herbs,  a  blade  of  mace, 
and  a  few  pepper-corns,  in  three  pints  of  wiater.-  Keep  the 
brodi  for  the  pie.  Take  off  a  bit  of  the  meat  for  the  balb,  and  let 
the  other  be  eaten ;  but  simmerthe  bones  in  the  broth  till  it  is  very 
good.  Half-boil  the  head,  and  cut  it  into  square  bits ;  put  a 
layer  of  ham  at  the  bottom;  then  some  head— -first  fat,  then 
lean — with  balls  and  hard  eggs  cut  in  half,  and  so  on  till  the 
dish  be  fall:  but  be  particularly  careful  not  to  place  the  pieces 
dose,  or  the  pie  will.be  too  solid,  and  there  will  be.no  space 
for  the  jelly.  The  meat  must  be  first  pretty  well  seasoned  with 
pepper  and  salt,  and  a  scrape  or  two  'of  nutmeg.  Put  a  little 
water  and  a  little  gravy  into  the  dish,  and  cover  it  with  a  tole- 
nbly  thick  crust ;  bake  it  in  a  slow  oven,  and  when  done,  pour 
intoJt  as  much  gravy  as  it  can  possibly  hold,  4md  do  not  cut  it 
till  perfectly  cold ;  in  doing  which,  observe  to  use  a  very  sharp 
knife,  and  first  cut  out  a  large  bit,  going  down  to  the 
bottom  of  the  dish ;  and  when  done  thus,  thinner  sliceg  can  be 
cut :  the  different  colours  and  the  dear  jdly  have  a  beautiful 
marbled  appearance. 

A  small  pie  may  be  made  to  eat  hot,  which,  with  high 
seasoning,  oysters,  mushrooms,  truffles,  morels,  &c.  has  a  very 
good  appearance.  ^ 

II  Ss  ^ 


dI4  BOHBITIC  CDOKBRIC. 

The  cold  pie  will  keepnuunjrdhjfBB*  Slices  make  a  pret^ 
$ide  diah. 

bwtfad  of  isinglassy  use  acalf '9.foD(t  or  a  eow-h0el»  if  Ui» 
jeUj  ia  net  likeij  to  be  atiff  enough. 

The  pickled  tongues  of  formof  caWea'  beada  may  ba  eiiiiii^ 
to  vaiy  the  colour^  iastead  o(,  or  besidea^baoii 

• 

Bake  an  ox  ohcek,  uritfa  seasoniDg^  &o.  inr  the  usual  way^ 
Init  it  must  not  be  too-  much  done.  It  fpuy  stand  all  night  m 
the  oven>  and  will  then,  be  ready  for  next  day.  Make  a  fine 
pntf  paste,  with;  the  aides  and  top  very  thick ;  and  line  widi'it 
a  deep  dish,  capable  of  containing  a  great  quantity  of  gravy. 
Take  off  all  the  flesh,,  kernels,  and  fiit  of  the  head,  with  the 
palate,  and  ciU  them  into  pieces  as  if  for  a- hash;  lay  th«a 
into  the  dish,  and  throw  over  the  meat  an  ounce  of  truffles  and 
morels,  the  yolks  of  six  hard  eggs,  a  gill  of  fresh  or  pickled 
muahroems,  and  plenty  of  forcemeat  balls.  Seaaon  to  palate, 
with  pepper  and  salt ;  and  fill  thepie  with  the  gravy  in  which 
the  cheek  was  baked.  Indeed,  if  it  were  properly  seasoned 
en  putting  it  into  the  oven-  very  little  more  will  be  required; 
Close  it  up  with  a  cr«6t;  set  the  pie  in  the  oven,  and,  when 
the  top  is  well  baked,  the  whole  will  be  suffloently  done^  A 
fow  artichoke  bottoms,  or  tops  of  asparagus,  are  sometimeepetin 
with  the  mushrooms,  &c.  and  thought  to  improve  the  flavour; 
but  it  is  vny  good,  and  sufficiency  ridi,  without  them,  and 
tiiey  are  not  always  at  hand>  or  in  season. 

Caifi  Feet  Pie. 

Boil  your  calf 's  feet  in  three  quarts  of  water,  with  three  or 
four  blades  of  mace,  and  let  them  boil  gently  till  it  is  reduced 
to  about  a  pint  and  a  half.  Then  take  out  the  feet,  strain  the 
liquor,  and  make  a  good  crust  Cover  your  dish,  then  take 
the  fl^sh  from  the  bones,  and  pat  half  into  it.  Strew  over  it 
half  a  pound  of  currants  clean  washed  and  picked,  and  half  a 
pound  of  ndsins  stoned.  Then  lay  on  tiie  rest  of  your  meats, 
akim  the  liquor  they  were  boiled  in,  sweeten  it  to  your  taste, 
and  put  in  half  a  pint  of  white  wine.  Then  pour  all  into  the 
dish,  put  on^  your  Ud,  and  bake  it  an  hour  and  a  half. 


8AVQVRT  PIB8  AN0  PATTIES.  316 

StffeMnad  Pie. 

Lay  a  puff  pft0te  half  an  inch  thick  at  the  bottom  of  a  deep 
didi,  and  put  a  ibrceoieat  romid  the  sides.  Cut  some  sweet- 
iMpeadb  ki  pieces,  three  or  four,  according  to  the  size  llhe  pie  ift 
intended  to  be  made ;  lay  tnem  in  first,  -then  some  aitrchoke 
bottoms,  cut  hito  four  pieces  each,-  then  some  cock*s  comba^ 
a  few  truffles  and  morels,  some  aspara^s  tops,  and  fresK 
nuskroeim,  yoMcs  of  eg§^  boiled  hard,  and  forcemeat  balls; 
season  with  pepper  and  salt.  Almost  fill  the  pie  with  water, 
eover  it,  and  ^a%e  H.  two  hours.  When  it  comes  from  the 
«veQ,  poar  in  teme  ridfi  veal  gravy,  thidsened  with  a  very  Htde 
cream  and  flour. 

Take  a  neck,  shouVder,  or  breast  of  venison,  that  has  not 
iMing  too  long,  bone  them,  and  trim  off  all  the  skin,  and  cut 
it  into  pieces  two  vncfaes  square,  and  put  them  into  a  stew-x>an 
Wtdi  three  giU«  of  Port  wine,  two  onions,  or  a  Yew  eschalots 
slioed,  tome  pepper,  salt,  three  blades  of  mace,  about  a  dozen 
afi^ioe,  and  enough  veal  broth  to  cover  it ;  put  it  over  a  slow 
fitte,  and  let  it  stew  tiM  lihree  parts  dene :  put  iiie  trimmings 
JMto  iMMirtier  sauee-pan,  cover  it  with  water,  and  set  it  on  a 
fire.  Tflfee  out  the  pieces  you  Intend  for  die  pasty,  and  put 
fbem  into  a  deep  dish  with  a  little  of  their  Kquor,  and  set  it  by 
to  cool ;  then  add  the  remainder  of  the  liquor  to  the  bones  and 
tHmmings,  and  boil  it  till  the  pasty  is  ready ;  then  cover  the 
pasty  with  a  good  paste,  made  as  directed  for  raised  pies. 
Ornament  the  top,  and  bake  it  for  two  hours  in  a  slow  oven ; 
and  before  it  is  sent  to  table  poor  in  a  sauce  made  with  the 
gravy  the  venison  was  stewed  in,  strained  and  skimmed  free 
from  fat;  some  pepper,  salt,  half  a  gill  of  port,  the  juice  of 
half  a  lemon,  and  a  little  flour  and  butter  to  thicken  it. 

To  make  a  P^ty  of  Bnf  inr  MutUn  to  eat  as  tvett  as  Vmison* 

Bone  k  small  rump  or  a  piece  of  sirloin  of  beef,  or  a  fat 
loin  of  mutton,  after  ^nging  several  days.  Beat  it  very  well 
with  a  rolling  pin ;  then  rub  ten  pounds  of  meat  with  four 
ounces  of  sugar,  and  pour  over  it  a  glass  of  port,  and  the  same 
of  vinegtfr.  Ltft  it  lie  Ave  days  and  nights,  wash  and  wipe  the 
aeat  very  ilry>  ttid  aeusoii  It  very  high  with  pepper,  Jamaica 


I 


316  DOMESTIC  COOKERY* 

pepper,  nutmeg,  and  salt.  Lay  it  in  your  didb,  and  to  ten 
pounds  put  one  pound  or  near  of  butter,  spreading  it  over  the 
meat.  Put  a  crust  round  the  edges,  and  cover  with  a  thiek  one, 
or  it  will  be  overdone  before  the  meat-  be  soaked ;  it  must  be 
done  in  a  slow  oven. 

Set  the  bones  ih  a  pan  in  the  oven,  with  no  more  water 
than  will  cover  them,  aiid  one  glass  of  port,  a  little  pepper 
and  salt,  that  you  may  have  a  little  rich  gravy  to  add  to  the 
pasty  when  drawn. 

Sugar  gives  a  greater  shortness  and  better  flavour  to  meats 
than  salt,  too  great  a  quantity  of  which  hardens;  and  it  is  quite 
as  great  a  preservative. 

Dartmouth  Pie. 

• 

This  curious  pie,  formerly  of  great  fame,  is  thus  made  :— 
Chop  or  mince  small  on  a  chopping  board,  two  pounds  of  the 
lean  part  of  a  1^,  of  mutton,  with  one  pound  of  beef  suet  ; 
keeping  them  constantly  stirred  up  from  the  board,  to  prevent 
the  minute  particles  from  sticking. .  Add^  a  pound  of  well- 
cleansed  currants,  sifl  over  three  ounces  of  powdered  loaf 
sugar,  grate  some  nutmeg,  and  season  with  a  little  salt.  The 
whole,  being  well  mixed,  is  to  be  put  into  a  paste  composed 
of  two  parts  purified  beef  suet,  and  one  part  fresh  butter; 
both  melted,  mixed  in  the  water  which  is  to  make  the  crust  or 
paste,  then  boiled  up  together,  poured  into  the  excavated  centre 
of  the  sided  flour,  kneaded  up,  and  rolled  out  in  the  usual  way 
for  lining  and  covering  the  dish. 

Squab  Pie. 

Cover  your  dish  with  a  good  crust,  and  put  at  the  bottom 
of  it  ;a  layer  of  sliced  pippins,  and  then  a  layer  oi  mutton 
steaks,  cut  from  the  loin,  well  seasoned  with  pepper  and  salt. 
Then  put  another  layer  of  pippins,  peel  some  onions,  slice 
them  thin,  and  put  a  layer  of  them  over  the  pippins :  then- put 
a  layer  of  mutton,  and  then  pippins  and  onions.  Pour  in  a 
pint  of  water,  dose  up  the  pie,  and  send  it  to  the  oven. 

Eel  Pie. 
Take  eels  about  half  a  pound  each ;  skin,  wash,  and  trim 
Off  the  fin  with  a  pair  of  scissarsii  cat  them  into  pieces  thiee 


SATOtTRY  PIBft  ANP  PATTIES.  817 

inches  long,  season  them  ivith  pepper  and  salt,  aftd  fill  jour 
dish,  leaving  out  the  heads  and  tails.  Add  a  gill  of  water  or 
Teal  broth,  cover  it  with  paste,  rub  it  over  with  a  paste  brush 
dipped  in  yolk  of  egg^  ornament  it  with  some  of  the  same 
paste,  bake  it  an  hour,  and  when  done,  make  a  hole  in  the' 
<:entre>  and  pour  in  the  following  sauce  through  a  funnel : 
«— The  trimmings  boiled  in  half  a  pint  of  veal  stock,  seasoned 
"with  pepper  and  salt,  a  table-spoonful  of  lemon  juice,  and 
thickened  with  flour  and  water,  strained  through  a  fine  sieve : 
add  it  boiling  hot  « 

Cod  Pie. 

Take  a  piece  of  the  middle  of  a  small  cod,  and  salt  it  well 
one  night ;  next  day  wash  it ;  season  with  pepper,  salt,  and  a 
very  little  nutmeg,  mixed;  place  in  a  dish,  and  put  some 
butter  on  it,  and^a  little  good  broth  of  any  kind  into  the  dish. 

Cover  it  with  a  crust ;  and  when  done,  add  a  sauce  of  a 
spoonful  of  broth,  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  cream,  a  little  flour 
and  butter,  a  grate  of  lemon  and  nutmeg,  and  give  it  one  boiL 
Oysters  may  be  added. 

Parsley  picked  and  put  in,  may  be  used  instead  of  oysters. 

Salmon  Pie. 

When  you  have  made  a  good  crust,  take  a  piece  of  fresh 
salmon,  well  cleansed,  and  season  it  with  salt,  mace,  and  nut« 
m^.  Put  a  piece  of  butter  at  the  bottom  of  your  dish,  and 
then  lay  in  the  salmon.  Melt  butter  in  proportion  to  the  size 
of  your  pie,  and  then  take  a  lobster,  boil  it,  pick  out  all  the 
flesh,  chop  it  small,  bruise  the  body,  and  mix  it  well  v^ith  the 
butter.  Pour  it  over  your  salmon,  put  on  the  lid,  and  let  it  be 
well  baked. 

Turhot  Pie. 

First  parboil  your  turbot,  and  then  season  it  with  a  b*ttle 
pepper,  salt,  cloves^  nutmeg,  and  sweet  herbs  cut  fine.  When 
you  have  made  your  paste,  lay  the  turbot  in  your  dish,  with 
some  yolks  of  eggs,  and  a  whole  onion,  which  must  be  takea 
out  when  the  pie  is  baked.  Lay  a  great  deal  of  fresh  butter 
at  the  top^  put  on  the  lid,  and  send  it  to  the  oven. 


918  >M>MEATX€  €OOK«ity« 

Sok  Pie. 

Split  some  «6le8  l^om  the  bone,  and  cut  tlie  fins  close; 
season  with  a  liiixture  of  salt,  pepper,  a  little  nutmeg  and 
pounded  mace,  and  put  them  in  layers,  with  oysters.  They 
eat  excellently.  A  pair  of  middling-sized  ones  will  do,  and 
half  a  hundred  of  oysters.  Put  in  the  dish  the  oyster  liquor, 
two  or  thnee  spoonfuls  of  broth,  and  some  butter.  When  the 
pie  comes  home^  pour  in  a  cupful  of  thick  cream* 

Flounder  Pie. 

Gut  your  flounders,  wash  them  dean,  and  then  dry  them 
well  in  a  cloth.  Give  them  a  gentle  boil,  and  then  cut  the  flesh 
clean  from  die  bones,  lay  a  good  crust  over  the  dish,  put  a  little 
fresh  butter  at  the  bottom,  and  on  that  the  fish.  Season  with 
pepper  and  salt  to  your  taste.  Boil  the  bones  in  the  water  the 
fish  was  boiled  in,  with  a  small  piece  of  horseradish,  a  little 
parsley,  a  \nt  of  lemon  peel,  and  a  crust  of  bread.  Boil  it  till 
there  is  just  enough  liquor  for  the  pie,  then  strain  it,  and  pour 
it  over  the  fish.  Put  on  Ae  lid,  and  send  it  to  a  moderate 
heated  oven. 

Carp  Pie. 

Scrape  off  the  scales,  and  then  gut  and  wash  a  large  carp 
cilean.  Take  an  eel,  atid  boil  it  till  it  is  almost  tender ;  pick 
off  all  the  meat,  and  mince  it  fine,  with  an  equal  quantity  of 
crumbs  of  bread,  a  few  sweet  herbs,  lemon  peel  cut  fine,  a 
little  pepper  and  salt,  and  grated  nutmeg ;  an  anchovy,  half  a 
pint  Of  oysters  parboiled  wnd  chopped  fine,  and  the  yolks  o{ 
diree  hard  eg^s  cut  small.  Roll  it  up  with  a  quarter  of  a  pound 
of  butter,  and  fill  the  belly  of  the  carp.  Make  a  good  crust, 
cover  the  dish,  and  lay  in  your  fish.  Save  the  liquor  you 
boiled  your  eel  in,  put  into  it  the  eel  bones,  and  boil  them  with 
a  little  mace,  whole  pepper,  an  onion^  some  sweet  herbs,  and 
an  anchovy.  Boil  it  till  reduced  to  about  half  a  pint,  then 
Strain  it,  and  add  to  it  about  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  white  wine, 
and  a  piece  of  butter  about  the  size  of  a  hen's  egg  mixed  in  a 
Very  little  flour.  Boil  it  up,  and  poor  it  into  your  pie.  Put 
on  the  lid^  and  bake  it  an  hour  in  a  quick  oven. 


BAVOUSr  Vras:  AVD  FA9TIBS.  Ki^ 

Tench,  Piti 

'  JPat  »la3Ftr  of  batter  at  the  bottom  9f  your  dish,,  and  grate 
in  sovie  nutmeg;  with  pepper,  salt,  and  mace:  tben  hf  in 
jBour  tench,  cover  them  with  some  batterer  and  pour  in  some 
red  wine  with  a  little  water.  Tben  put  on  the  hd,  and  when 
it  Qomes  from  the  oven,  pour  in  melted  butter  mixed  with  some 
good  rich  gravj. 

ti'out  Pie, 

Take  a  brace  of  trout,  and  lard  them  with  eels ;  raise  the  crust, 
and  put  a  layer  of  fresh  butter  at  the  bottom.  Then  make  a 
forcemeat  of  trout,  mushrooms,  truffles,  morels,  chives,  and  fresh 
batter.  Season  them  with  salt,  pepper,  and  spice ;  mix  these 
ap  with  the  yolks  of  two  eggs ;  stufi*  the  trout  with  it,  lay  them 
in  the  dish,  cover  them  with  butter,  put  on  the  lid,  and  send 
it  to  the  oven.  Have  some  good  fish  gravy  ready,  and  when 
the  pie  is  done,  raise  the  crust,  and  pour  it  in. 

Herring  Pie, 

Hmvng  scaled;  gutted,  and  washed  your  herrings  clean; 
cut  off  their  heads,  fins,  and  tails.  Make,  a- good  crust,  cover 
your  dish,  and  season  your  herrings  with  beaten  mace,  pepper, 
and  salt.  Put  a  little  butter  in  the  ftottom  of  your  dish,  and 
Ibed  the;  herringsii  OVer  thear  put  some  apples  and  onions 
alioed  vary  thin.  Put  aotns  butter  on  the  top,,  then  pour  in  a 
littl*  wUer,  Uiy  onthrlid,  send  it  to  the  tnren,  and  let  it  be 
celibated. 

Lobster  Pie. 

Boil,  two  lobsters*  or  thr^e  small,  take  out  the  tails,  cat 
thamintwo,  take  out  the  gut,  cut  each  in  four  pieoea  lusd  lay 
in  a  small  dish,  then  put  in  the  meat  of  the  claws,  and  that 
you  have  picked  out  of  the  body ;  pick  off  the  funy^  parts  from 
the^  latter,  and  take^out  the  lady;  the  spawp,  beat  in  a 
mortar ;  likewise  all  the  shells :  set  them  on  to  stew  with  soaia 
water,  two  or  three  spoonfuls  of  vinegar,  pepper,  salt,  and 
8ome,pounded  mace ;  » large  piece,  of  butter,  rolled  in  fiouiv 
must  be  added  when  the  goodness  of  the  shells  is  obtained :  give 
a  boil  or  two,  and  pour  into  the  dish  strained ;  strew  some 
crumbs,  and  put  a  paste  over  all ;  bake  slowly,  but  only  till  the 
paste  be  done. 


920  DOMESTIC  COOKBRT. 

A  remarkably  fine  Fish  Pie. 

Boil  two  pounds  of  small  eels ;  having  cut  the  fins  ffuite 
dose,  pick  the  flesh  off,  and  throw  the  bones  into  the  liquor 
with  a  little  mace,  pepper,  salt,  and  a  slice  of  onion ;  boil  till 
quite  rich,  and  strain  it.  Make  forcemeat  of  the  fleshy  an 
anchovy,  parsley,  lemon  peel,  salt,  pepper,  and  crumbs,  and 
four  ounces  of  butter  warmed,  and  lay  it  at  the  bottom  of  the 
dish.  Take  the  flesh  of  soles,  small  cod,  or  dressed  turbot, 
and  lay  them  on  the  forcemeat,  having  rubbed  it  with  salt  and 
pepper :  pour  the  gravy  over  and  bake. 

Observe  to  take  off  the  skin  and  fins^  if  cod  or  soles. 

Pilchard  and  Leek  Pie. 

Clean  and  skin  the  white  part  of  some  large  leeks ;  scald  in 
milk  and  water,  and  put  them  in  layers  into  a  dish,— and  be- 
tween the  layers,  two  or  three  salted  pilchards  which  have  been 
soaked  for  some  hours  the  day  before.  Cover  the  whole  with  a 
good  plaia.  crust.  When  the  pie  is  taken  out  of  the  oven^  lift 
up  the  side  crust  with  a  knife,  and  empty  out  all  the  liquor ; 
then  pour  in  half  a  pint  of  scalded  cream. 

Chicken  Pie. 

Cat  up  two  young  fowls,  season  with  white  pepper,  salt,  a 
little  mace,  and  nutmeg,  all  in  the  finest  pow.der;  likewise  « 
little  cayenne.  Put  the  chicken,  slices  of  ham,  or  fresh  gam- 
mon of  bacon,  foroemeat-baUs,  and  hard  eggs,  by  turns,  in 
layers.  If  it  is  to  be  baked  in  a  dishj  put  in  a  little  water ;  but 
none  if  in  a  raised  crust  By  the  time  it  returns  from  the  oven, 
have  ready  a  gravy  of  knuckle  of  veal,  or  a  bit  of  the  scrag, 
with  some  shank  bones  of  mutton,  seasoned  with  herbs^ 
onion,  mace,  and  white  pepper.  If  it  is  to  be  eaten  hot,  you 
may  add  truffles,  morels^  miushrooms,  &c.  but  not  if  to  be 
eaten  cold.  If  it  is  made  in  a  dish,  put^  much  gravy  as  will 
fill  it;  but  in  a  raised  crust,  the  gravy  must  be  nicely  strained, 
and  then  put  in  cold  as  jelly.  To  make  the  jelly  dear,  you 
may  give  it  a  boil  with  the  whites  of  two  eggs,  after  taking 
away  the  meat,  and  then  run  it  through  a  fine  lawn  sieve. 


SATOVRY  9ltM  ANB  VATtlUB.  ttt 

AfMtOmiPU. 

Quattei^  ybur  gbdse,  sifeasBn  ft  well  witb  pe)pper  tu^d  salt^ 
and  Uy  ik  in  a  failed  crosk.  (Cut  half  a  {bond  bf  bbtter  inld 
]iiecci9«  ^ttd  put  it  in  Cerent  plaices  oik  the  top ;  tfi^  lay  oti 
'the  lid^  lind  MkA  ft  tb  an  oven  moderatet^  heati^. 

Ahbtfiet  udbhod  bt  AkkBg  a  goose  ^ie.  with  Vnateriid  im^ 
proYbnehts/is  thttsi  l*ale  k  goose  and  k  Wl»  bbne  theih, 
imd  seatoh  ttieth  nf^ll ;  put  a  JPoroemeait  into  fiib  fbwl^  and  theii 
(mt  the  foirl  intb  the  gUose.  Lay  these  iti  a  rased  crusty  and 
fill  the  di^et^  With  a  littte  forbettieat  JPut  half  a  pbahd  6t 
DUtter  oh  ttie  top  cut  into  pieces^  cover  it,  send  it  to  the.  oven, 
and  let  it  be  well  baked.  This  pie  may  be  batien  either  h<%  or 
cold,  and  makes  a  pretty  siderdish  for  supper. 

Green  Qoose  Pie. 

Bone  tiKTO  youn^  irf  Isen  gebse,  of  a  good  siiee ;  but  first  take 
away  every  j[>ltig,  ana  siiige  them  nicely.  Wash  theb  dean  ; 
and  season  tUeiii  faig-h  with  salt,  pepper,  mace,  and  allspice, 
rut  one  ihside  the  btner  ;  and  press  them  as  close  aS  you  can, 
drawing  ihe  legs  inwards.  Pui  a  good  deal  of  batter  over  them, 
and  hiisA  them  either  With  or  without  crust ;  if  the  latter,  a 
cover  to  the  dish  must  fit  close  to  keej[i  iti  dife  steam*  tt  wilt 
keep  Ibng. 

DwkPie. 

Sddtt  two  ducks,  ahd  mkke  thto  tery  deaii :  then  but  off 
the  feet,  the  pinions,  necks,  and  heads ;  take  oht  the  gifeiUird^ 
livers,  and  hearts,  pick  all  clean,  and  scald  them.  Pick  out  the 
fat  of  the  inside,  lay  a  good  pilfF-paste  cfust  alt  over  the  dish, 
seftMn  the  ddcks,  both  iiiside  and  oiit,  with  pepper  and  salt, 
and  lay  thetn  ifi  dib  disfi  with  the  giblets  at  each  end  properly 
se^oired.  Pdt  in  its  tnuch  v^ater  as  will  tiearly  fill  the  pie,  lay 
km  Ihe  Ctiist,  liUd  1^  it  be  Well  baked. 

Qibkt  Pie. 

Clefttl  Wen,  and  hcUf  stew  t^o  or  three  set^of  godse  giblets; 
cut  th^  leg  'tti  tWo)  tiie  wiiig  &fid  tieck  into  three,  and  the  giz- 
faikl  into  ibflr  pluses ;  ^se^ve  the  liquor,  tod  set  the  gibleta 
trf  till  cold;  6«hfet#}se  tifle  heat  of  the  giblets  will  spoil  the 
pisb  yott  cot er  ^  pie  wkh :  then  season  the  whole  with  blacle 

12  2t 


382  DOllBSTIC  COOKERY. 

pepper  and  salt,  and  put  them  into  a  deep  dish ;  cover  it  with 
paste,  rub  it  over  with  the  yolk  of  egg,  ornament  and  bake  it 
an  hour  and  a  half  in  a  moderate  oven :  in  the  meantime  take 
the  liquor  the  giblets  were  stewed  in,  skim  it  free  from  fat,  put 
it  over  a  fire  in  a  dean  stew-pan,  thicken  it  a  little  with  flour 
and  butter,  or  flour  and  water,  season  it  with  pepper  and  salt, 
and  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  add  a  few  drops  of  browning, 
strain  it  through  a  fine  sieve,  and  when  you  t^e  the  pie  from 
the  oven,  pour  some  of  this  into  it  through  a  funnel.  Some 
lay  in  the  bottom  c£  the  dish  a  moderately  thick  rump  steak : 
if  you  have  any  cold  game  or  poultry,  cut  it  in  pieces,  and 
add  it  to  the  above.  , 

Pigeon  or  Lark  Pie* 

Truss  half  a  dozen  fine  large  pigeons  as  for  stewing,  season 
them  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  fill  them  with  veal  stuffing,  or 
some  parsley  chopped  very  fine,  and  a  little  pepper,  salt,  and 
three  ounces  of  butter  mixed  together :  lay  at  the  bottom  of  the 
dish  a  rump  steak  of  about  a  pound  weight,  cut  into  pieces  and 
trimmed  neatly,  seasoned  and  beat  out  with  a  chopper ;  on  it 
lay  the  pigeons,  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  boiled  hard,  and  a  gill 
of  broth  or  water ;  wet  the  edge  of  the  dish,  and  cover  it  over 

ft 

with  puff-paste,  wash  it  over  with  yolk  of  egg,  and  ornament 
it  with  leaves  of  paste,  and  the  feet  of  the  pigeons ;  bake  it  an 
hour  and  ahalf  in  a  moderate  heated  oven:  before  it  is  sent  to 
table  make  an  aperture  in  the  top,  and  pour  in  aome  good 
gravy  quite  hot. 

Partridge  Pie. 

Take  two  brace  of  partridges,  and  dress  them  in  the  same 
manner  as  you  do  a  fowl  for  boiling.  Put  some  shalots  into  a 
marble  mortar,  with  some  parsley  cut  small,  the  liver  of  the 
partridges,  and  twice  the  quantity  of  bacon.  Beat  these  well 
together,  and  season  them  with  pepper,  salt,  and  a  blade  or 
two  of  mace.  Whte  these  are  all  pounded  to  a  paste,  add  to 
them  some  fresh  mushrooms.  .  Raise  the  crust  for  the  pie,  and 
cover  the  bottom  of  it  with  the  seasoning;  then  lay  in  the 
partridges,*  but  no  stuffing  in  them ;  put  the  remainder  of  the 
seasoning  about  the  sides,  and  between  the  partridges.  Mia: 
together  some  pepper  and  )alt,  a  little  maee«  some  shalota 


SAVOURY  PIES  AND  PATTIES. 

sliiecl  fine,  fresh  mnshrooins,  and  a  little  bacon  b^t  fine  in  a 
mortar.  Strew  this  over  the  partridges^  and  lay  on  some  thin 
slices  of  bacon.  Then  put  on  the  lid»  and  send  it  to  the  oven» 
and  two  hours  will  bake  it.  When  it  is  done,  remove  the  lid, 
take  out  the  slices  of  bac6n^ '  and  scum  off  the  fat.  Put  in  a 
pint  of  rich  veal  gravy^  squeese  in  the  juice  of  an  orange>  and 
send  ithot  to  table. 

Hare  Pie. 

•  Cut  your  hare  into  pieces,  and  seasoii  it  well  with  pepper^ 
fMdty  nutmeg,  and  mace ;  then  put  it  into  a  jug  with  hdf  a 
pound  of  butter,  dose  it  up,  set  it  in  a  oopper  of  boiling 
Water,  and  make  a  rich  forcemeat  with  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
scraped  bacon,  two  onions,  a  glass  of  red  wine,  the  crumbs  of 
a  two-penny  loaf,  a  little  winter  savory,  the  liver  cut  small, 
and  a  little  nutmeg.  Season  it  high  with  pepper  an4  salt,  mix 
it  well  up  with  the  yolks  of  three  eggs,  raisie  the  pie,  and  lay 
the  forcemeat  in  the  bottom  of  the  dish.  Then  put  in  the  hare, 
with  the  gravy  that  came  out  of  it ;  lay  on  the  M,  and  send  it 
to  the  oven.    An  hour  and  a  half  will  bake  it. 

Rabbit  Pie. 
Cut  a  couple  of  young  rabbits  into  quarters ;  then  take  a 
garter  of  a  pound  of  bacon,  and  bruise  it  to  pieces  in  a  marble 
mortar,  with  the  livers,  some  pepper,  salt,  a  little  mace,  some 
parsley  cut  snudl,  some  chives,  and  a  few  leaves  of  sweet^basil. 
When  these  are  all  beaten  fine,  make  the  paste,  and  cover  the 
bottom  of  the  pie  with  the  seasoning.  Then  put  in  the  rabbits, 
pound  some  more  bacon  in  a  mortar,  and  with  it  some  fresh 
butter.  Cover  the  rabbits  with  this,  and  lay  over  it  some  thin 
ilices  of  bacon ;  put  on  the  Ud,  and  send  it  to  the  oven. 
It  will  take  two  hours  baking.  When  it  is  done,  remove  the 
lid,  take  out  the  bacon,  and  skim  off  t!ie  fiit.  If  there  is  not 
gravy  enough  in  the  pie,  pour  in  some  rich  mutton  or  veal 
gravy  boiling  hot. 

V^etabh  Pie. 

Scald  and  blanch  some  broad  beans ;  cut  young  carrots, 

turnips,  artichoke  bottoms,  mushrooms,  peas,  onions,  lettuce, 

parsley,  celery,  or  any  of  them  you  have ;  make  the  whole 

into  a  nice  stew,  with  soaie  good  veal  gravy.    Bake  a  croat 


824  DOMESTIC  COOXEST. 

•ver  a  dUh,  with  a  little  lining  roand  the  edge^  anda  cttp  ioni^ 
«d  op  to  kerp  it  from  sinking.  When  baked,  oimbbl  the  lid^ 
snd  pour  in  the  stew. 

Pardey  Pie* 

.  \ag  ^  &▼!»  or  H  few  bones  of  ^e  B|cng.of  veal,  seasoned^ 
into  a  dish ;  scald  a  colander-fuU  of  picked  pendey  in  milk. ; 
season  it ;  and  add  to  the  fc':7l  or  meat,  with  a  tea^cupfol  of 
any  sort  of  good  broth,  oi^  week  gravy.  When  it  is  baked, 
poor  iqto  it  a  quarter  of  apmtof  cream  scalded,  with  the  size 
of  a.  walnut  of  butter,  and  a  bit  of  Hour,  Shake  it  loiuid,  te 
mix  with  the  gi'avy  alseady  in. 

Lett^oes,  white  mustard  leaTSs,  or  qpiaach^  may  be  added 
So  the  pardey,  and  scalded  be&re  put  id. 

T^mtjp  Pit. 

Season  mutton  chopa  with  sa^  i^d  pqipfT*  reierving  the 
ends  of  tbp  neck  bones,  to  lay  over  tl^  turnips,  which  n^ust  bo 
icot  iiM;o  small  dice,  mfA  put  on  t|)^  sMftks. 

Put  two  or  th]*ee  g«pd  qpaonA4s  of  milk  ip,  Yoif  migradd 
sliced  onion.    Cover  with  a  crust. 

P9ia/to  Pif. 

Skia  some  potatoes,  and  cut  M^^PO  va^o  slices ;  s^ai9i|.thm : 
andalso  some  mutton,  bee&  pork,  ei|v  vraL  Put  ligr^psof  theaofi 
and  rf  the  meat. 

An  Herb  Pie. 

Pick  two  hand&ils  of  parsley  from  the  stems,  half  the  quan- 
tity of  q[>inach,  two  lettuces,  some  mustard  and  cress,  a  few 
leaves  of  bprage,  and  white  beet  ^aves;  wash  and  boil  them  a 
Ihtle;  then  drain,  and  press  out  the  water:  cut  them  small: 
mix,  and  lay  them  in  a  dish^  sprinkle  with  soo^e  salt;  mix  a 
ba^er  of  flour,  two  e|;g8  w,ell  beaten,  a  pint  qf  cream,  and 
half  a  pint  of  milk,  and  pour  it  on  the  herbs;  coy^r.with  a 
good  crust,  and  bake. 

SAVOURY  PATTISS. 

Puff  Paste  for  Patties. 

To  a  pound  and.aqtiiirti^^  of  taft^  flour  ruU  gsi^l^  in  witji 
the  hand  hslf  apovnct  ajT.  ^n^  b^ij^,  vm  ujr  with  t^  a  pint 


SAvovmr  vixs  ani^  i^attibs.  986 

of  spring  water ;  knead  k  weB,  and  aet  it  by  for  a  quarter  of 
^n  Wkt  I  then  TfiO,  «t  Dut  ^io;  lay  i«  it,  iq amall  pieces,  three 
^mvtecs  of  n  pound  mm  oC  baiter,  thnotr  on  it .  a  iittle  flour» 
doable  it  up  in  folds,  aod  roll  it  oat  thin  three  tiQiesy  and  set  it 
by  for  about  an  hour  in  a  cold  place. 

Fried  Patties. 

Mince  a  bit  of  cold  veal^  and  six  oysters;  mix  with  a  ftw 
ipruipbs  of  bread/  salt,  pepper^  nutmeg,  and  a  very  small  bit 
of  lemoia-peel ;  add  the  liquor  of  the  oysters ;  warm  all  in  a 
tosser,  but  do  not  boil ;  let  it  go  cold ;  have  ready  a  good  putf 
paste^  roll  thin^  and  cut  it  in  round  or  square  bits ;  put  some 
of  the  above  be(w,cf  n  tw.9  of  thfn%  twi^  the  edges  to  keep  in 
fhe  gwvy>  ^nd  frj^.  th^ijOf  pf  *  fine  brown. 

This  is  a  v^y  |;Qpd  tjtiiqg;  and  baked,  is  a  fashionable  dish. 

Waffi  al}  pa^^ief^oif^  w'lik  ^gg  befpre  baking. 

Beef  Patties. 

Shred  under-done  dressed  beef  with  a  little  fiit;  season  with 
{>epper,  salt,  and  a  little  sbalot  or  onion.  Make  a  plain  paste, 
tfA  it  this^  and  cut  in  shapfe  Mka  an  apple  puff;  ^  it  with 
mince,  pinch  tiie  edges^  atid  fej  them  of  a  nice  brown.  The 
jMste  should  be  made  with  a  amall  quratity  of  lmtter>  e^^  a&d 
milk. 

Veal  and 'Bam  Fattks. 
Chop  about  Al  oukices  of  ready  dressed  lean  Ted>  and 
three  ounces  of  ham,  very  small ;  put  it  into  a  steW-paH  with 
an  ounce  of  butter  rolled  in  flour,  half  a  gill  of  cream,  half  a 
giU  of  real  stock,  a  litde  grated  nutmeg  and  lemon  peel,  some 
Cayenne  pepper  and  salt,  a  spoonful  dt  essence  of  ham  and 
lemon  juice,  and  stir  it  over  the  fire  some  tiniie,  taking  care  it 
does  not  bum. 

Cftidten  atUl  Ham  Paitits. 

Use  the  white  meat  from  the  breast  of  chickens  or  fbwlr^ 
and  proceed  as  in  the  last  receipts 


326  DOMESTIC  COOKBRT. 

Turkey  Paities. 

Mince  some  of  the  white  part,  and  with  grated  lemon^ 
notmegy  salt,  a  very  little  white  pepper,  cream^  and  a  very- 
little  bit  of  batter  warmed^  fill  the  patties. 

Sweet  Pattiee, 

Chop  the  meat  of  a  boiled  calf's  foot,  of  which  you  use  the 
liquor  for  jelly^  two  apples,  one  ounce  of  orange  and  lemon 
peel  candied,  and  some  fresh  peel  and  juice;  mix  with  them 
half  a  nutmeg  grated,  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  a  spoonful  of 
■brandy,  and  four  ounces  of  currants  washed  and  dried. 

Bake  in  small  pattepans. 

Pattiee  resembling  Mince  Pies, 

Chop  the  kidney  and  fat  of  cold  veal,  apple,  orange,  and 
lemon  peel  candied,  and  fresh  currants,  a  little  wine,  two  or 
three  cloves,  a  little  brandy,  and  a  bit  of  sugar.  Bake  as 
before. 

Oyster  Patties. 

Roll  out  puff  past^  a  quarter  of  an  inch,  thick,  cut  it  into 
aquares  with  a  kni&,  sheet,  eight  or  ten  pattepans,  put  upon 
each  a  bit  of  bread  the  siaeof  half  a  itralnut;  roll  out  another 
byer  of  paste  of  the  same  thickness,  cut  it  as  above,  wet  the 
edge  of  the  bottom  paste,  and  put  on  the  top,  pare  them  round 
to  the  pan,  and  notch  them  abouta  dosen  times  with  the  back  of 
the  knife,  rub  them  lightly  with  yolk  of  egg,  bake  them  in  a  hot 
oven  about  a  quarter  of  an  hour :  when  done,  take  a  thin  slice 
off  the  top,  then  with  a  small  knife  or  spoon  take  out  the  bread 
and  the  inside  paste,  leaving  the  outside  quite  entire ;  then  par- 
boU  two  dosen  of  lai^  oysters,  strain  them  from  their  liquor, 
wash,  beard,  and  cut  them  into  four,  put  them  into  a  stew-pan 
:with  an  ouQce  of  butter  rolled  in  flour,  half  a  gill  of  good 
cream,  a  little  grated  lemon  peel,  the  oyster  liquor,  free  from 
eediment,  reduced  by  boiling  to  one  half,  some  Cayenne  pepper, 
salt,  and  a  tea-spoonful  of  lemon  juice ;  stir  it  over  a  fire  five 
minutes,  and  fill  the  patties. 

f 

Lobster  Patties. 
Prepare  the  patties  as  in  the  last  receipt.    Take  a  hen  lob- 
ster already  boiled ;  pick  the  meat  from  the  tail  and  claws,  and 


PUDDINGS.  827 

cbop  it  fine;*  put  it  into  a  stew-pan,  with  a  little  of  the  inside 
qpawn  pounded  in  a  mortar  till  quite  smooth,  with  an  ounce  of 
fi«Bh  hatter,  half  a  gill  of  cream,  and  half  a  gill  of  veal  con« 
aomm^,  Cayenne  pepper,  and  aak,  a  tea-spoonful  of  essence  of 
anchpvy,  the  same  of  lemon  juice,  and  a  taUe-spoonful  of 
flour  and  water,  and  stew  it  five  minutes. . 


PUDDINGS. 

Ob$ervatian$  en  Puddings. 

JLHE  quality  of  the  various  articles  employed  in  the  com* 
position  of  puddings  varies  so  much,  that  two  puddings, 
made  exactly  according  to  the  same  receipt,  will  he  so 
different,  one  would  hardly  suppose  they  were  made  by  the 
same  person,  and  certainly  not  with  precisely  the  same  quan« 
tides  of  the  (apparently)  same  ingredients.  Flour  fresh 
grounds-pure  new  milk— fresh  laid  eggs  afresh  butter — fresh 
suet,  &c.  will  make  a  very  different  composition,  than  when 
kept  till  each  article  is  half  spoiled. 

Plum  puddingSy  when  boiled,  if  hung  up  in  a  cool  place 
in  the  doth  they  are  boiled  in,  will  keep  good  some^  months : 
when  wanted,  take  them  out  of  the  doth,  and  put  them  into 
a  dean  cloth,  and  as  soon  as  warmed  through,  they  are  ready. 

In  oomposiT^  these  receipts,  the  quantities  of  eggs,  butter, 
&c.  are  considerably  less  than  is  ordered  in  other  cookery  books ; 
but  quite  sufficient  for  the^urpose  of  making  the  puddings 
light  and  wholesome,  we  have  diminished  the  expense,  with- 
out  impoverishing  the  preparations,  and  the  rational  epicure 
will  be  as  well  pleased  with  them — as  the  rational  economist. 

MUkf  in  its  genuine  state,  varies  considerably  in  the  quan- 
tity of  cream  it  will  throw  up,— depending  probably  on  the 
material  with  which  the  cow  is  fed.  The  cow  that  gives  the 
most  milk  does  not  dways  produce  the  most  cream.  London 
cream,  we  are  told,  is  sometimes  adulterated  with  milk,  thick« 
ened  with  potatoe  starch,  apd  tinged  with  turmeric. 


%m  DOMESTIC  COOKBRT. 

J^gi  vftry  dditiiidenMy  m  mm  hi  the  ftiUi^iqa^  n^pu^  ti« 
ineaii  the fiill«.Med  hm%egg;  if  ^uinire  only piillfac'*  eggs;  mub 
two  for  en^.  Biuik  4^gB  «>De  by  oiHe  into  A  bafliii,  tt\d  tlot  idl 
iMo  tte  i]b#l  tofcdier,  beeail^  then,  if  ywt  «ae«t  with  ft  iMd 
<tee,  <iM  will  8^  all  tbe  rM :  dMiii  thient  dutoisgb  a  tf^Te  to 
ta^e  out  the  treddles. 

Eggs  may  be  preserved  for  twelve  months  in  a  sweet  and 
palatable  state  by  boiling  them  for  one  minute,  and  when  want- 
ed for  use  let  them  be  boiled  in  the  usual  manner.  The  white 
may  be  a  little  tougher  than  a  new  laid  egg^  but  the  yolk  will 
show  no  difference.  Snow  and  small  beer  have  been  recom- 
mended by  spme  economists  KS  tdktiftlible  substitutes  for  eggs : 
they  will  no  more  answer  this  purpose  than  as  substitutes  for 

sugar  or  brandy. 

Butter  varies  AviSi  in  qtidllty.     Salt  but^  may  be  washed 

from  the  salt,  and  then  it  will  make  very  good  pastry. 

Lard  varies  extremely  from  the  time  it  is  kept  &c.  When 
you  purchase  it,  have  the  bladder  Gnt>  and  ascertain  that  |t  be 
sweet  and  good. 

Beef'Suet  is  the  best,  then  mutton  and  veal :  when  this  is 
used  in  very  hot  weather,  while  you  chop  it,  dredge  it  lightly 
with  a  little  flour. 

BeeJ-marraw  is  excellent  for  most  of  the  purposes  for  which 
suet  is  employed. 

Currants,  previous  to  putting  them  into  the  pudding, 
should  be  plumped;  this  is  done  by  pouring  some  boiling 
water  upon  tiiem :  wash  them  well,  and  then  lay  them  on  a  - 
sieve  or  doth  before  the  fire,— -pick  them  clean  from  the  stones; 
this  not  only  makes  them  look  better,  but  deanses  them  free 
^rom  all  dirt 

.  Raisins,  figs,  dried  cherries,  candied  orange  and  lemoa 
ped,  dtron,  and  preserves  of  all  kinds, —fresh  fruits,  goose^ 
berries,;currants,  plums,  damsons,  &c.  are  added  to  batter  and 
suet  puddings,  or  enclosed  in  the  cru«t  ordered  for  apple  dum- 
plingSt  and  make  all  the  various  puddings  called  by  those  names. 

Batter  Pudding  must  be  quite  smooth  and  free  from  lumps; 
to  insure  this,  first  mix  the  flour  with  a  little  milk,  add  the 
remainder  by  degrees,  and  then  the  other  ingredients.     If  it  is 
a  plain pndcUoi^,  put  it  through  a  hair  sieve;  this  will  take  out 
all  lumps  effectually.    Batter  puddings  should  be  tied  op  tight ; 


PUDDINGS.  329 

"Sf  boiled  in  a  mould,  batter  it  first— if  baked»  also  butter  the 
{»an. 

Be  sure  the  water  boils  before  you  put  in  the  pudding.  Set 
your  stew-pan  on  a  trivet  over  the  fire,  and  keep  it  steadily 
boiling  all  the  time :  if  set  upon  the  fire,  the  pudding  often 
bums. 

Be  scrupulously  careful  that  your  pudding  cloth  is  perfectly 
sweet  and  clean :  wash  it  without  any  soap,  unless  very  greasy, 
then  rinse  it  thoroughly  in  dean  water  after.  Immediately 
before  you  use  it  dip  it  in  boiling  water,  squeese  it -dry,  and 
dredge  it  with  flour. 

If  your  fire  is  very  fierce,  mind  and  stir  the  puddings  every 
now  and  then  to  keep  them  from  sticking  to  the  bottom  of  the 
aauoe-pan ;  if  in  a  mould  this  care  is  not  so  much  required,  but 
keep  plenty  of  water  in  the  sauce-pan. 

When  puddings  are  boiled  in  a  cloth,  it  should  be  just 
dipped  in  a  basin  of  cold  wKter,  before  you  untie  the  pudding 
doth,  as  that  will  prevent  it  from  sticking ;  but  when  boiled 
in  a  mould,  if  it  is  well  buttered,  they  will  turn  out  without. 
Custard  or  bread  puddings  require  to  stand  Are  minutes  before 
they  are  turned  out.  They  should  always  be  boiled  in  a  mould 
or  cups. 

Keep  your  paste-board,  rolling-pins,  cutters,  and  tins,  very 
dean:  the  least  dust  on  the  tins  and  cutters,  or  the  least  hard 
paste  on  the  rolling-pin,  will  spoil  the  whole  of  your  labour. 

Paste  far  BdUd  Puddin/^s. 

PidE  and  chop  very  fine  half  a  pound  of  beef  suet,  add  tp 
it  one  pound  and  a  quarter  of  flour  and  a  little  salt;  mix  it  with 
half  a  pint  of  milk  or  water,  and  beat  it  wdl  with  the  rolling- 
pin  to  incorporate  the  suet  with  the  flour. 

Beef  Steak  Pudding. 

'  Get  rump  steaks,  not  too  thick,  beat  them  with  a  chopper, 
cut  them  into  pieces  about  half  the  siae  of  your  hand,  and 
trim  off  all  the  skin,  sinews,  &e,  have  ready  an  onion  peeled  and 
chopped  fine,  likewise  some  potatoes  peded  and  cut  into  slices, 
a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick ;  rub  the  inside  of  a  basin  or  an  oval 
plain  mould  with  butter,  sheet  it  with  paste  as  directed  in  the 
foregoing  receipt;  season  the  steaks  with  pepper,  salt,  and  a 
12  2u 


930  BOMBSTIC  COOKERY. 

IHtle  grated  tfiutitieg ;  put  in  a  layer  of  steak,  then  another  of 
potatoes,  and  so  on  till  it  is  fvl\,  occasionally  throwing  in  part 
of  the  chopped  onions ;  add  to  it  half  a  gill  of  mushroom  cat- 
sup, a  table-spoonful  of  lemon  pickle,  and  half  a  gill  of  water 
9r  veal  broth ;  roll  out  a  top»  and  dose  it  well  to  prev^t  the 
water  getting  in ;  rinse  a  clean  cloth  in  hot  water,  sprinkle  a 
little  flour  over  it,  and  tie  up  the  j[>udding;  have  ready  a  large 
pot  of  water  boiling,  put  it  in,  and  boil  it  two  hours  and  m 
half;  take  it  up,  remove  the  ckAh,  turn  it  downwards  in  a  deep 
dish,  and  wh^n  wanted  take  away  the  basin  or  mould* 


Baked  Beef  Steak 

Make  a  batter  of  milk,  two  eggs,  and  flour;  or,  whidi  ia 
much  better,  potatoes  boiled  and  mashed  through  a  colander  ; 
lay  a  little  of  it  at  the  bottom  of  the  dish ;  then  put  in  the 
steaks  prepared  as  above,  and  very  well  seasoned ;  pour  the 
remainder  of  the  batter  over  them  *  and  bake  it. 

Steak  or  Kidney  Pudding, 

^  If  kidney,  spUt  and  soak  it,  and  season  that  or  the  meat. 
Make  a  paste  of  suet,  flour,  and  milk ;  toU  it,  and  line  a  baaia 
with  some ;  put  the  kidney  or  steaks  in,  cover  with  paste,  and 
pinch  round  the  edge.  Cover  With  a  doth,  and  boil  a  con- 
siderable time. 

•  * 

Mutton  Pudding. 

Season  with  salt;  pef^per,  and  a  bit  of  onion;  lay  one  layer 
qf  steaks  at  the  bottom  of  the  disk ;  and  pour  a  batter  of 
potatoes  boiled  and  pressed  through  a  colander,  and  mixed  with, 
milk  and  an  egg,  over  them ;  then  putting  the  rest  of  the 
steaks  and  batter,  bak^  it. 

Batter  with  flour,  instead  of  potatoes,  eats  well,  but  re- 
quires more  egg,  and  is  not  so  good. 

Or:  cut  slices  off  a  1^  thitt  has  been  under-done,  and  put 
them  into  a  basin  lined  with  a  fine  abet  crust.  Season  with 
pepper,  salt,  and  findy  shred  onioii  or  shalot. 

Baked  Beef  or  Mutton  Potato  Pudding. 

.    This  econonical  article  is  thus  made-^Boil  a  sufficient  quan- 
tity of  well-pared  mealy  potatoes  tifl  they  are  so  thoroughly 


clone  as  to  be  ready  to  cmirable  iti  pieces ;  drain  them  well  in  a 
colander  or  sieve ;  |dck  out  ever j  speck,  impnriiyi  or  hard- 
ness ;  and  mash  them  as  fine  and  smooth  $»  possible.  Make 
them  up  into  a  tbickish  batter,  with  an  egg  or  two  and  milk  s 
and,  placing  a  layer  of  the  steaks  or  chops,  well  seasoned 
with  fiialt  and  pepper,  at  the  bottom  of  a  baking  dish,  cover 
them  w  ith  e  layer  of  batter ;  and  so,  alternately,  till  the  dish 
be  filled,  taking  care  to  have  batter  at  the  top.  The  dish 
should  be  first  well  buttered,  to  prevent  sticking  or  burning ; 
and.  in  that  case,  the  bottoqi  as  well  as  the  top  may  consist  of 
potato  batter.  The  pudding,  when  properly  baked,  will  be  of 
a  fine  brown  colour. 

« 

Calf  8  Foot  Pudding. 

Mince  .very  fine  a-  pound  -of  calves*  feet,  first  taking  out  the 
£it  and  brown.  Then  take  a  pound  and  a  half  of  su^  pick 
off  all  the  skin,  and  shred  it  small.  Take  six  eggs,  ^11  the 
yolks,  and  but  half  the  whites,  and  beat  them  well.  Then 
take  the  crumb  of  a  half-penny  roll  grated,  a  pound  of  cur- 
rants clean  picked.^nd  washed,  and  rubbed  in  a  cloth,  as  much 
milk  as  will  moisten  it  with  the  eggs,  a  handful  of  flour,  and  a 
little  salt,  nutmeg,  and  sugar,  to  season  it  to  your  taste.  Boil 
it  four  hours;  then  take  it  up,  lay  it  in  your  dish,  and  pour 
melted  butter  over  it.  If  you  put  white  wine  and  sugar  into 
the  butter  it  will  be  a  pleasing  addition. 

Yorkshire  Pudding  under  Roast  Meat^  the  Gipsies'  way. 

This  pudding  is  an  especially  excellent  accompaniment  to  a 
sirloin  of  beef,  loin  of  veal,  or  any  fat  and  juicy  joint 

Six  table-spoonfuls  of  flour,  three  eggs,  a  tea-spoonful  of 
salt,  and  a  pint  c^  milk  ;  so  as  to  make  a  middling  stiff  batter^ 
a  little  stiffer  than  you  would  for  pancakes ;  beat  it  up  well, 
and  take  care  it  is  not  lumpy.  Put  a  dish  under  the  meat,  and 
let  the  drippings  drop  into  it  till  it  is  quite  hot  and  well 
greased ;  then  pour  in  the  batter.  When  the  upper  surface  is 
brown  and  set,  turn  it,  that  both  sides  may  be  brown  alike ;  if 
yovL  wish  it  to  cut  firm,  and  the  pudding  an  inch  thick,  it  wil^ 
take  two  hours  at  a  good  fire. 

The  true  Yorkshire  pudding  is  about  half  an  inch  thick 
when  done;  but  it  is  the  fi»faion  in  Lond<m  to  make  them  full 
twice  that  thickness. 


832  DOMESTIC  COOlCESY. 

MyPniding. 

Beat  up  the  yolks  and  whites  of  three  eggs,  strain  them 
through  a  sieve,  (to  keep  out  the  treddles,)  and  gradnally  add 
to  them  about  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  milk ;  stir  these  well 
together.  Rub  together  in  a  mortar  two  ounces  of  moist  sugar, 
and  as  much  grated  nutmeg  as  will  lie  on  a  sixpence ;  stir  these 
into  the  eggs  and  milk ;  then  put  in  four  ounces  of  flour,  and 
beat  it  into  a  smooth  batter ;  by  degrees  stir  into  it  seven  ounces 
of  suet,  (minced  as  fine  as  possible^)  and  three  ounces  of  bread 
crumbs  ;  mix  all  thoroughly  together  at  least  half  an  hour  be- 
fore you  put  the  pudding  into  the  pot ;  put  it  into  an  earthen- 
ware pudding  mould,  that  you  have  well  buttered,  tie  a  pudding 
cloth  over  it  very  tight^  put  it  into  boUing  water^  and  boil  it 
three  hours. 

Put  one  good  plum  into  it,  and  an  arch  cook  says,  you  may 
then  tell  the  economist  that  you  have  made  a  good  plum  pud- 
ding— without  plums :  this  would  be  what  school-boys  call  a  Mile 
Stone  Pudding,  u  e.  a  mile  between  one  plum  and  another. 

Half  a  pound  of  Muscatel  raisins  cut  in  half,  and  added  to 
the  above,  will  make  a  most  admirable  plum*  pudding:  a  little 
grated  lemon  peel  may  be  added.  A  table-spoonful  of  cream 
will  also  give  it  a  rich  brown  colour. 

If  the  wat^r  ceases  to  boil,  the  pudding  will  become  bfevy, 
and  be  spoiled ;  if  properly  managed,  this  and  the  following 
will  be  as  fine  puddings  of  the  kind  as  art  can  produce.  Pud- 
dings are  best  when  mixed  an  hour  or  two  before  they  are 
boiled ;  the  various  ingredients  by  that  means  amalgamate,  and 
the  whole  becomes  richer  and  fuller  of  flavour,  especially  if  the 
various  ingredients  be  thoroughly  well  stirred  together. 

This  pudding  may  be  baked  in  an  oven,  or  under  meat,  the 
same  as  Yorkshire  pudding.  If  you  make  it  the  same,  add  half 
a  pint  of  milk  more :  it  should  be  above  an  inch  and  a  quarter 
in  thickness,  and  will  take  full  two  hours.  It  requires  careful 
watching,  for  if  the  top  gets  burned,  an  empyreumadc  flavour 
will  pervade  the  whole  of  the  pudding. — Or  butter  some 
saucers,  and  fill  them  with  puddings  and  set  them  in  a  Dutch 
oven :  they  will  take  about  an  hour. 

A  Fat  Pudding. 
Break  five  eggs  in  a  basiu,  beat  them  up  with  a  tea-spoon- 
ful of  sugar  and  a  table-spoonful  of  flour,  beat  it  quite  smooth. 


PUDDINOf.  839 

then  pat  to  it  a  pound  of  raisins,  and  a  pbund  of  suet, — ^it  must 
not  be  chopped  very  fine.  Butter  a  mould  well,  put  in  the  pud- 
ding, tie  a  cloth  over  it  tight,  and  boil  it  five  hours. 

N.  B.  This  is  very  rich,  and  is  commonly  called  a  marrow 
padding. 

Suet  Pudding  or  Dumplings* 

Chop  six  ounces  of  suet  very  fine,  put  it  in  a  basin  with  six 
ounces  of  flour,  two  ounces  of  bread  crumbs,  and  a  tea-spoon- 
ful of  salt— stir  it  all  well  together ;  beat  two  eggs  on  a  plate, 
add  to  them  six  table-spoonfuls  of  milk,  put  it  by  degrees  into 
the  basin,  and  stir  it  all  well  together;  divide  it  into  six 
dumplings,  and  tie  them  separate,  previously  dressing  the  cloth 
lightly  with  flour.     Boil  them  one  hour. 

This  is  very  good  the  next  day  fried.  The  above  will  make 
a  good  pudding,  boiled  two  hours  in  an  earthenware  mould, 
with  the  addition  of  one  more  egg,  a  little  more  milk,  and  two 
ounces  of  suet'. 

The  most  economical  way  of  making  suet  dumplings,  is  to 
boil  them  without  a  cloth  in  a  pot  with  beef,  or  mutton ;  no 
eggs  are  theil  wanted,  and  the  dumplings  are  quite  as  hght 
without.  Roll  them  in  flour  before  you  put  them  into  the  pot ; 
add  six  ounces  of  currants,  washed  and  picked,  and  you  have 
currant  pudding, — or  divided  into  six  parts,  currant  dumpling. 
A  little  sugar  will  improve  them. 

Veal  Suet  Pudding. 

Cut  the  crumbs  of  a  three-penny  loaf  into  slices ;  bcnl  and 
sweeten  two  quarts  of  new  milk,  and  pour  over  it.  When 
soaked,  pour  out  a  little  of  the  milk ;  and  mix  with  six  eggs 
well  beaten,  and  half  a  nutmeg.  Lay  the  slices  of  bread  into 
a  dish ;  with  layers  of  currants,  and  veal  suet  shred,  a  pound 
of  each.  Butter  the  dish  well,  and  hake ;  or  you  may  boil  it  in 
a  basin,  if  you  prefer  it.  - 

Batter  Pudding  with  Meat. 

Make  a  batter  with  flour,  milk,  and  eggs ;  pour  a  little  into 
Ihe  bottom  of  a  pudflbg-dish ;  then  put  seasoned  meat  of  any 
kind  into  it,  and  a  little  shred  onion ;  pour  the  remainder  of 
the  batter  over^  and  bake  ia  a  «low  ovep. 


334  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

Some  like  a  loin  of  mutton  baked  in  b»tteri  beiag 
cleared  of  mo«t  of  the  fat 

Potato  Pudding  with  Meat. 

Boil  the  potatoes  till  fit  to  mash ;  rub  through  a  poUnder^ 
and  make  into  a  thick  batter  with  milk  and  two  egg%.  Lay- 
some  seasoned  steaks  in  a  dish,  then  8o6ie  batter ;  and  over  the 
laBt  layer  pour  the  remainder  of  the  baiter.    Bake  a  fine  brOwn. 


"i 


.  Ptase  Pudding, 

Put  a  quart  of  split  peas  ii>lo  a  dean  doth ;  do  not  tie  them 
ap  too  olose^  but  leave  a  little  roorti  for  them  ta  swdl ;  put 
them  to  boil  m  oold  water  do  wly,  till  they  are  tender  :  if  theyv 
are  good  peas,  they  will  be  boiled,  enough  in  about  two  hours 
and  a  half.  Aiib  thetn  through  a  sieve  into  a  deep  dish*  adding 
to  them  an  egg  or  two,  on  ounce  of  butter,  and  son^  P^PP^v 
and  salt;  beat  them  wdl  together  for.  about  ten  minutes,  when 
these  ingredients  are  well  incorporated  together ;  then  floor  the 
doth  well,  put  the  puddil^^  in,  and  tie  it  up  as  tight  as  possible, 
and  boil  it  an  hovr  longer. 

To  increaae  ibe  bulk,  and  diminish  the  expense  of  this  pud*? 
ding,  the  ecooonpicd  housekeeper  who  ha^  a  large  family  t^ 
feed,  may  now  add  two  pounds  of  potatoes  that  have  been 
boiled  aiid.weU  .mashed..  To. many,  this  mixture  is  more 
agreeable  than  pease  pudding  done.  ... 

This  pudding  is  as  good  with  boiled  beef,  as  it  is  with  boil« 
ed  pork  ;  and  why  not  with  roasted  pork  ?  It  is  also  a  very 
good  accompatidment  to  cold  pork,  or  cold  beef. 

• 
New  College  Puddings. 

Grate  the  crumbs  of  a  stde  two-penny  loaf,  and  put  to  il 
about  the  same  weight  of  finely  shred  beef  suet,  a  grated  nnt« 
meg,  a  littte  salt,  and  two  ounces  of  nicely  picked  currants  i 
then  beat  a  few  eggs  in  a  little  mountain  wine  and  sugar :  mix. 
all  together ;  knead  it  into  a  stiff  paste ;  and,  afler  letting  it 
stan<l  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  make  it  up  into  the  form  and  size 
of  turkey's  eggs,  but  somewhat  flatter.  Over  a  clear  fire,  in  a 
chafiing*dish  or  stovo,  put  a  pound  of  fresh  butter  in  a  dish  ; 
isub  it  about  the  dish  till  melted,  then  put  in  the  puddings,  and 
cover  them  up.    They  must^  however,  be  frequently  turned^ 


PUBDIKGS.  935 

%31  all  appew  bnywn  dike ;  and,  when  quite  enough,  are  to  be 
■efved  up  hot,  for  a  side  dish,  with  grated  sugar  over  them. 
TEese  puddings,  which  first  obtained  their  name,  as  well  as  their 
ce&abrity,  at  the  university  of  Oxford,  are  very  generally  ad- 
mired. 

DeHdouM  Orange  Pudding, 

Gtale  the  rinds  of  two  Seville. oranges ;  and  bett  them  in  a 
marbie  mortar,  with  half  a  pound  of  fine  fresh  butter,  the 
same  quantity  of  loaf  sugar,  and  the  yolks  Of  sixteen  eggs, 
till  the  whole  mass  becomes  of  an  even  colour :  then  pour  it 
into  a  baking  dish  lined  with  puff  paste. 

Orange  Pudding  another  way. 

Bather  more  than  two  table-spoonfuls  of  the  orange  pastes 
nixed  with  six  eggs,  four  ounces  of  •  togar,  and  four  ounces  of 
butter,  melted,  will  make  a  good  sized  pudding,  with  a  paste 
at  the  bottom  of  the  dish.    Bake  twenty  minutes. 

An  excellent  Lemon  Pudding. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  four  >egg9 ;  add  Ibur  ounces  of  white 
flogar,  the  rind  of  a  lemon  being  rubbed  with  some  lamps  of  it 
to  take  the  essence ;  then  pe^,  and  beat  it  in  a  mortar  with  the 
juice  of  a  large  lemon,  and  mix  all  with  four  or  five  ounces  of 
butter  warmed.  Put  a  crust  into  a  fallow  dish,  nick  the  edges, 
and  |mt  the  above  into  it.  When  served,  turn  the  pudding  out 
of  tfas  dish. 

Dutch  Baked  Pudding. 

Take  two  pounds  of  fiour,  one  pound  of  butter  melted  in 
half  a  pint  of  milk,  and  a  pound  of  picked  currants,  eight 
aggs,  and  a  little  grated  loaf  sugar.  Mix  the  whole  together, 
with  two  spoonfuls  of  yeast,  and  let  It  stand  an  hour  to  rise. 
An  hour  will  bake  it  in  a  hot  oven. 

Dutch  Rid  Pudding. 

Soak  four  ounces  of  rioe  in  warm  water  half  an  hour ; 
drain  the  latter  fVom  it,  and  throw  it  into  a  stew-pan,  with  half 
a  pint  of  milk,  half  a  stick  of  cinnamon,  and  eimmer  till  ten- 
der.   When  cold,  add  fovr  whole  eggs  well  beaten,  two  ounces 


9M  DOMBSTIC  COOKERY* 

of  batter  melted  in  a  tea-cupful  of  creain;  and  put  thfM 
ounces  of  sugar,  a  quarter  of  a  nutmeg,  and  a  good  piece  of 
lemoD  peel. 

Put  a  light  puff  paste  in  a  mould  or  dish,  or  grated  tops 
and  bottoms,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Rice  Puddings  baked  or  hoikd. 

Wash  in  cold  water,  and  pick  very  dean  six  ounces  of  rice, 
put  it  in  a  quart  stew-pan  three  parts  filled  with  cold  water, 
set  it  on  the  fire,  let  it  boil  five  minutes ;  pour  away  the  water, 
and  put  in  one  quart  of  milk,  a  roll  of  lemon  peel,  and  a  bit 
of  cinnamon.  Let  it  boil  gently  till  the  rice  is  quite  tender,  it 
will  take  at  least  one  hour  and  a  quarter :  be  careful  to  stir  it 
every  five  minutes,  take  it  off  the  fire,  and  stir  in  an  ounce 
and  a  half  of  fresh  butter;  and  beat  up  three leggs  on  a  plate, 
a  salt-spoonful  of  nutmeg,  two  ounces  of  sugar,  ptit  it  into  the 
pudding,  and  stir  it  till  it  is  quite  smooth.  Line  a  pie-dish  big 
enough  to  hold  it  with  puff  paste,  notch  it  round  the  edge,  put 
in  your  pudding,  and  bake  it  three  quarters  of  an  hour :  this 
will  be  a  nice  firm  pudding. 

If  you  like  it  to  eat  more  like  custard,  add  one  more  egg, 
and  half  a  pint  more  milk;  it  will  be  better  a  little  thinner 
when  boiled ;  one  hour  will  boil  it.  If  you  like  it  in  little  pud* 
dings,  batter  small  tea-cups,  and  either  bake  or  boil  them :  half 
an  hour  will  do  either.  You  may  vary  the  pudding  by  putting 
in  candied  lemon  or  orange  peel,  minced  very  fine, — or  dried 
cherries,— or  three  ounces  of  currants, — or  raisins,— or  apples 
minced  fine. 

If  the  puddings  are  baked  or  boiled,  serve  them  with  white 
wine  sauce,  or  butter  and  sugar. 

Grimnd  Rice  Pudding. 

Put  four  ounces  of  ground  rice  into  a  stew-pan,  and  by 
degrees  stir  in  a  pint  and  a  half  of  milk ;  set  it  on  the  fire,  widi . 
a  roll  of  lemon,  and  a  bit  of  cinnamon ;  keep  stirring  it  till  it 
boils ;  beat  it  to  a  smooth  batter,  then  set  it  on  the  trivet, 
where  it  will  simmer  gently  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour;  then 
beat  three  eggs  on  a  plate,  stir  them  into  the  pudding  with  two 
ounces  of  sugar,  and  twp  drams  of  nutmeg;  take  out  the 
lemon  peel  and  cinnamon,  stir  it  aU  well  together,  line  a 


PUDDINGS.  887 

)iie  dish  with  diin  puff  paste  big  enough  to  hold  iti  or  butter 
the  dish  well,  and  bake  it  half  an  hour.  If  boiled,  it  will  take 
one  hour  in  a  mould  well  buttered— three  ounces  of  currants 
may  be  added. 

Plain  Rice  Pudding. 

Wash  and  pick  some  rice ;  throw  among  it  some  pimento 
findj  pounded,  but  not  much ;  tie  the  rice  in  a  doth,  and 
leare  plentj  of  room  for  it  to  swell.  Boil  it  in  a  quantity  of 
water  for  an  hour  or  two.  When  done,  eat  it  with  butter  and 
sugar,  or  milk.     Put  lemon  peel  if  you  please. 

It  is  very  good  without  spice,  and  eaten  with  salt  and  butter. 

J  Ge&rge  Pudding. 

Boil  very  tender  a  handful  of  whole  rice  in  a  small  quantity 
of  milk,  with' a  large  piece  of  lemon  peel.  Let  it  drain;  then 
mix  with  it  a  dozen  of  good  sized  apples,  boiled  to  pulp  as  dry 
as  possible ;  add  a  glass  of  white  wine,  the  yolks  of  five  eggs^ 
two  ounces  of  orange  and  citron  cut  thin  ;  m^dce  it  pretty  sweet. 
'Line  a  mould  or  basin  with  a  very  good  paste :  beat  the  6ve 
whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  very  strong  froth,  and  mix  with  the 
other  ingredients  ;  fill  the  mould,  and  bake  it  of  a  fine  brown 
(Xilour.  Serve  it  with  the  bottom  upward,  with  the  following 
sauce : — two  glasses  of  Wine,  a  spoonful  of  sugar,  the  yolks  of 
two  eggs,  and  a  bit  of  butter  as  large  as  a  walnut ;  simmer 
without  boiling,  and  pour  to  and  from  the  sauce*pan,  till  of  a 
proper  thickness ;  and  put  in  the  dish.  ' 

Duke  of  Buckingham's  Pudding. 

Take  a  pound  of  finely  shred  suet,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
raisins  stoned  and  chopped,  two  eggs,  with  a  little  nutmeg  and 
giuger,  and  sugar  to  the  palate:  tie  it  dose;  boil  it  four  hours; 
and  serve  it  up  with  melted  butter,  mountain  wine,  and  sugar. 

Pancake  Pudding. 

Take  a  quart  of  milk,  four  eggs '  and  two  large  spoonfuls 
of  flour,  with  a  little  salt  and  grated  ginger.  Beat  them  up 
into  a  good  smooth  batter ;  and  put  it  into  a  buttered  baking 
dish.  When  it  comes  out  of  the  oven,  pour  over  it  some  melt* 
ed  butter.  This  is  a  very  cheap  and  acceptable  puddings  beii^ 
1%  ix 


aaS  DOMESTIC  COOKBRT. 

•  •  • 

le8»  offenaire  to  the-  stomach  than  even  the  beai  fried  pa«« 
cakes. 

Fine  Carrot  Pudding. 

Grate  half  a  pound  of  the  sweetest  and  most  delicate  raw 
carroty  and  doable  th^  quHfltity  of  white  bread ;  mix  eight 
beaten  yolks  and  four  whites  of  egg^  with  half  a  pint  of  new 
milk ;  and  melt  half  a  pound  of  fresh  butter^  with  half  a  pint 
t>f  white  wine,  three  spoonfuls  of  orange-flower  water,  a 
grated  nutmegi  and  sugar  to  palate.  Stir  the  whole  well  to- 
gether; and,  if  too  thick,  add  more  milk,  till  it  be  of  a 
moderate  consistency*  Lay  a  puff  paste  all  over  the  dish,  and 
bake  it  an  hour.  Serve  it  up  with  sugar  grated  over.  This 
fine  pudding  is  easily  made  stiO  more  delicious  by  using  Naples 
biscuit  and  cream  instead  of  bread  and  new  milk,  and  putting 
in  a  glass  of  ratafia  with  the  orange-flower  water.  On  account 
of  its  beautiful  colour,  this  pudding  is  often  sent  to  table, 
turned  out  of  the  crust  bottom  upward, .  having  a  little  fine 
sugar  grated  over  it.  S6me,  too,  boil  the  carroty  and  scald  the 
cream,  but  neither  is  necessary ;  and,  by  boiling,  much  of  the 
aaocharine  quality  of  the  carrot  is  always  unavoidably  lost. 

Delicious  Macaroon  Custard  Pudding. 

Fill  the  bottom  of  the  baking  dish  with  macaroons,  and 
toak  them  well  in  white  wine :  then  pour  over  the  top  of  them 
a  rich  custard,  made  with  twenty  eggs,  a  pint  and  a  half  of 
cream,  and  a  pint  of  new  milk ;  adding  as  omaments.whatever 
sweetmeats  best  please  the  fancy.     Great  care  most  be  taken      ^ 
with  the  bakiiig,  as  it  requires  very  little  doing.     The  dish  it   J 
sometimes  Hned  with  puff  paste.    This  is  a  truly  deUcioutf.  * 
podding. 

Good  Custard  Pudding  for  boiling. 

Take  a  pint  of  cream,  mix  two  or  three  spoonfuls  of  it  with 
a  spoonful  of  fine  Bov^r^  and  boil  the  remainder ;  when  it  has 
boiled,  take  it  off  the  fire,  and  stir  well  into  it  the  cold  ci!«am 
which  had  been  mixed  with  the  flour.  While  the  whole  ia 
cooling,  beat  up  five  yolks  of  eggs,  with  two  whites,  stirring 
in  a  little  salt,  some  grated  nutmeg,  a  small  glass  of  while 
winci  and  sugar  to  palate.    Butter  a  wooden  bowl;  pour  the 


PUDDINGS. 

tmstard  into  it ;  and,  tyin^  a  doth  over,  let  it  boil  half  an  hour. 
Vfhm  done,  mitift  the  doth,  torn  the  podding  into  a  ditl|»  and 
poor  over  it  meked  batter;  eitber  (riain,  or  mixed  witba  littltf 
«ango-flowcv  water,  sugar,  and  a  tpoonful  of  white  wb«»  M 
iaoet  oonvcnient  or  agreeable. 

Curious  Noddy  Puddingi. 

Beat  blanched  almonds  very  fine,  adding  a  spoonful  or  two 
of  damask  rose-water  or  cream ;  strain  the  whole  through  a 
aieve,  boil  it,  and  let  it  stand  to  cool.  Then  thicken  it  with 
beaten  eggs,  sw^ten  with  fine  loaf  sugar  dissolved  in  rose* 
water,  and  tie  it  up  in  9everal  little  bags.  Boil  them  half  an 
hour  in  a  skillet  of  water ;  and  melt  butter  with  rose-water  and 
sugar  for  the  sauce.  When  made  of  several  different  colours, 
as  was  formerly  the  fashion,  they  are  said  to  have  a  very  pretty 
appearance.  This  is  easily  effected,  by  means  of  spinadi  juice, 
aaffron,  beet,  &c. 

MUUt  Pudding. 

This  agreeable  padding  is  easily  made,  and  scarcely  any 
thing  can  be  cheaper, — Wash  half  a  pound  of  millet  seed,  and 
put  it  in  a  dish  spread  over  with  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  batter : 
add  some  sugar  and  shred  lemon  peel,  with  a  little  beaten  all« 
spice,  cinnamon,  grated  nutmeg,  or  even  ginger ;  and,  pour- 
ing over  the  whole  three  pints  of  milk,  bake  it  in  a  moderate 
oven.  In  this  plain  way,  it  is  very  good;  it  may,  however, 
be  made  richer,  with  eggs,  spices,  &c.  in  the  same  manner  aa 
i  rice,  and  has  a  peculiarly  pleasing  flavour. 

JB^kHsd  QooHherrjf  Pudding. 

Stew  gooseberries  over  a  slow  fire  till  they  are  as  tender  aa 
possible,  and  then  pulp  them  through  a  hair  sieve.  Beat  up 
five  or  six  eggs,  strain  them  to  about  a  quart  of  the  gooseberry 
pulp  when  cold,  and  mix  up  both  with  crumbs  of  bread  or 
Naples  biscuits,  plenty  of  sugar,  and  a  little  grated  orange  or 
lemon  ped  and  nutmeg,  with  some  rose  or  orange-flower  water. 
Line  the  dish  with  paste,  pour  in  the  firoit,  Ac.  place  a  rim  of 
paste  round,  and  let  it  be  moderately  baked. 


840  DOMEflTIC  COOKEAY. 

Delkate  Mugiu  Pudding* 

Boily  in  a  pint  of  milk^  a  bit  of  lemon  peeU  and  a  leaf  of 
laurel  or  a  little  cinnamon,  with  sugar  also  to  fMdate«  about 
eight  or  ten  minutes.  Having  put  three  of  the  best  niuffins  ii> 
a  large  basin,  strain  over  them  the  hot  milk ;  and^  when  quite 
cold,  mash  them  well  with  a  wooden  spoon.  Then  pounding 
about  an  ounce  of  blanched  almonds,  mix  them  well  in 
.with  about  a  quarter  of  a  .pound  of  any  dry  preserved  fruit, 
such  as  apricots,  cherries,  or  plums,— a  little  grated  nut« 
meg,  three  beaten  eggs,  and  a  couple  of  table-spoonfuls  each 
of  brandy  and  orange-flower,  and  bake  it  with  puff  paste  round 
the  dish,  or  boil  it  tied  up  in  a  basin.  In  either  way  it  will 
prove  delicious .  It  may  be  made  plainer,  and  very  good,  by 
obvious  omissions,  and  substituiing  nicely  picked  currants  for 
dry  sweetmeats.  Muffins,  indeed,  make  a  very  agreeable  and 
delicate  pudding,  without  the  insertion  of  any  fruit  at  all. 

Cotti^  Potato  Phun  Pudding. 

Boil,  peel,  and  mash,  two  pounds  of  potatoes ;  and  beat 
them  up  well  into  a  smooth  batter,  with  a  pint  of  milk,  and  a 
couple  or  three  beaten  eggs ;  adding  two  ounces  each  of  moist 
sugar,  and  Denia  or  Malaga  raisins.  Bake  it  three  quarters  of 
an  Kour  in  a  moderately  heated  oven.  By  merely  leaving  out 
the  plums,  it  makes  a  good  plain  cottage  pudding. 

An  excellent  plain  Potato  Pudding, 

Take  eight  ounces  of  boiled  potatoes,  two  ounces  of  butter, 
the  yolks  and  whites  of  two  eggs,  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  cream, 
one  spoonful  of  white  wine,  a  morsel  of  salt,  the  juice  and 
rind  of  a  l^mon  ;  beat  all  to  froth ;  sugar  to  taste.  A  crust  or 
not,  as  you  like.  Bake  it.  If  wanted  richer,  put  three  ounces 
more  butter,  sweetmeats  and  almonds,  and  anoth^  egg. 

Save-all  Pudding. 

Put  any  scraps  of  bread  into  a  clean  sauce*pan ;  to  about  a 
pound,  put  a  pint  of  milk.  Set  it  on  the  trivet  till  it  boils ;  beat 
it  up  quite  smooth ;  then  break  in  three  eggs,  three  ounces  of 
sugar,  with  a  little  nutm^,  ginger,  or  allspice,  and  stir  it  all 
well  together  Butter  a  dish  big  enough  to  hold  it,  put  in  the 
pudding,  and  have  ready  two  ounces  of  suet  chopped  very  fine  i 


:puddin6s.  341 

tttrew  it  over  the  top  of  the  pudding,  and  bake  it  three  quarters 
of  an  hoar.    Four  ounces  of  currants  will  make  it  much  better. 

Batter  Pudding,  baked  or  boiled. 

Break  three  eggs  in  a  basin  with  as  much  salt  as  will  lie  on 
a  sixpence,  beat  them  well  togethcf ,  and  then  add  four  ounces 
of  flour— beat  it  into  a  smooth  batter,  and  by  degrees  add  half 
a  pint  of  milk :  have  your  sauce-pan  ready  boiling,  and  butter 
an  earthen  mould  well,  put  the  pudding  in,  and  tie  it  tight 
over  with  a  pudding  cbth,  and  boil  it  one  hour  and  a  quarter* 
Or,  put  it  in  a  dish  that  you  have  well  buttered,  and  bake  it 
three  quarters  of  an  hour. 

Currants  washed  and  picked 'clean,  or  raisins  stoned,  are 
good  in  this  pudding,  and  it  is  then  called  a  black  cap :  or,  add 
loaf  sugar,  and  a  little  nutmeg  and  ginger  without  the  firuit;  it 
is  very  good  that  way.-*Serve  it  with  wine  sauce. 

Rich  Plum  Pudding. 

Even  the  roast  beef  of  old  England  is  scarcely  more 
fiunous  than  its  plum  padding ;  but  this,  being  more  of  a 
knanufacture,  is  prepared  in  so  many  different  ways,  as  some* 
Umes  to  be  a  very  delicious  and  sometimes  a  very  indifferent 
dish«  Perhaps,  the  very  best  way  of  making  a  r»ch  pknu'^d- 
ding  is  this  which  we  are  about  to  give  —Having  carefuUj 
stoned  a  pound  of  the  best  jar  raisins,  well  washed  and  pick- 
ed, the  same  quantity  of  fine  and  newest  currants,  chopped  or 
minced  small,  a  pound  of  the  freshest  beef  suet,  and  blanched 
and  pounded  two  ounces  of  almonds ;  mix  them  in  a  pound 
each  of  sifted  flour  and  grated  bread  crumbs:  adding  two 
ounces  each  of  candied  citron,  orange  and  lemon  peel,  half  a 
iprated  nutmeg,  a  blade  or  two  of  beaten  mace,,  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  powdered  loaf  sugar,  and  a  very  little  salt.  Then 
moisten  the  whole  with  ten  beaten  eggs,  a\>out  half  a  pint 
of  cream,  a  glass  or  two  of  mountain  wine,  and  half  a  gill  of 
brandy,  to  make  it  of  a  good  consistency ;  but  it  must  by  no 
means  be  thin,  as  the  fruit  would  then  settle  at  the  bottom. 
Being  thus  made,  it  may  either  be  put  into  a  dish  or  mouldy 
and  well  baked;  or,  as  is  more  generally  the  case,  carefully  tied 
up  in  a  cloth,  boiled  at  least  four  hours,  and  served  up  with 
melted  butter  in  mountain  wine,  and  scraped  sugar  over  it 
This  is  a  most  delicious  pudding* 


842  DOMESTIC  COOKBRY. 

Good  Fwmhf  Plum  Pudding. 

Mix  Iialf  a  pound  each  of  Malaga  raisins  and  currants ;  a 
pound  each  of  0oiir»  grated  bread,  and  chopped  suet ;  and  a 
little  pounded  allspice,  a  quarter  of  i|  pouiid  of  moist  sugar,  and 
some  salt.  Moisten  it  with  ^  beaten  egg  and  milk,  with  or  with- 
out aglass  of  white  wine  or  brandy,  and  a  little  grated  nutmeg^ ; 
and  boil  or  babe  it  in  the  same  manner  as  the  richest  pluno. 
pudding.    This  will  generally  prove  a  very  acceptable  pudding. 

Apple  Pudding  boiled. 

Chop  four  ounces  of  beef  suet  very  fine,  or  two  ounces  of 
butter,  lard,  or  dripping,  but  the  suet  makes  the  best  and 
lightest  crust ;  put  it  on  the  paste  board,  with  eight  ounces  of 
flour,  and  a  salt-spoonful  of  salt ;  mix  it  well  together  with 
your  hands,  and  then  put  it  all  of  a  heap,  and  make  a  hole  in 
the  middle ;  break  one  egg  in  it,  stir  it  well  together  with  your 
finger,  and  by  degrees  infuse  as  much  water  as  will  make  it  of 
a  stiff  paste:  roll  it  out  two  or  thrpe  times  with  the  roUing-piD^ 
and  then  roll  it  large  enough  to  receive  thirteen  ounces  of 
apples.    It  will  look  neater  if  boiled  in  a  basin,  well  buttered^ 
than  when  boiled  in  a  pudding  doth  well  floured :  boil  it  an 
hoar  and  three  quarters,— but  the  surest  way  is  to  stew  the 
apples  first  in  u  stew-pan,  with  a  wine-glassful  of  water,  and 
then  one  hour  will  boil  it.    Some  people  like  it  flavoured  with 
cloves  and  lemon  peel,  and  sweeten  it  with  two  ounces  of  sugar* 
Gooseberries,  currants,  and  raspberries,  cherries,  damsons, 
and  various  plums  and  fruits,  are  made  into  puddings  with  the 
same  crust  directed  for  apple  puddings. 

Boston  Apple  Pudding. 

Peel  one  dof  en  and  a  half  of  good  apples,  take  out  the 
cores,  cut  them  small,  put  into  a  stew-pan  Uiat  will  just  hold 
them,  with  a  little  water,  a  little  cinnamon,  two  cloves,  and 
the  peel  of  a  lemon ;  stew  over  a  slow  fire  till  quite  soft,  then 
sweeten  with  moist  sugar,  and  pass  it  through  a  hair  sieve ;  add 
to  it  the  yolks  of  four  ^gs  and  o^ne  white,  a  quarter  of  a  pound 
of  good  butter,  half  a  nutmeg,  the  peel  of  a  lemon  grated, 
and  the  juice  of  one  lemon ;  beat  all  well  together ;  line  the 
inside  of  a  pie-dish  with  good  puff  paste,  put  in  the  pudding, 
and  bake  half  an  hour. 


PUDBINGS.  348 

.  AfpU  Dumplings. 
Make  paste  tbe  tome.  M  for  apfile  pudding;  divide  ii  into 
as  many  pie<»0  as  yea  want  dumplingSy  .pe^l  .the  apples  and 
core  iheta,  then  roll  out  your  paste  large  eOOliglb  and  put  in 
the  apples ;  dose  i%  all  round,  and  tjio  them  in  pudding  clotfas 
very  tight  >-K>ne  hoar  Will  boil  them^-^and  wh#li  yjom  take  them 
-up,  jnst  dip  thein  in  cold  vafter^  a)nd  put  them  in  a  cup  tbe 
•ice  of  the  dumpling  While  you  untie  Ihem^  and  they  will  turn 
tout  without  breaking. 

Nottingham  Puddings 

Feel  six  good  apples^  takeout  the  core  with  the  point  of  a 
small  knife,  or  aU  apple  corer,  if  yoU  hatoone ;  but  be  sura  to 
leave  Ae  apples  whole !  fill  up  where  you  took  the  core  Upoia 
with  angary  plate  them  in  a  pie-dish^  and  pour  over  them  a 
niee  light  batter,-^and  bake  an  hour  in  a  moderate  oven» 

« 

Bread  Pudding. 

Take  the  crumbs  of  a  penny  loaf^  cut  it  into  very  thin 
slices^  put  it  into  a  quart  of  mUk^  and  set  it  over  a  chaffing* 
dish  of  coab  tili  the  blread  has  soaked'  up  all  the  milk.  Then 
pat  in  a  piece  of  butter^  Itir  it  round,  and  let  it  stadd  till  it  is 
cold;  or  you  may  boil  your  milk,  and  pour  it  over  the  bread> 
and  coyer  it  up  dose,  which  will  equally  answer  the  same  puri> 
pose.  Then  take  the  yolks  of  six  eggs,  the  whites  of  three, 
and  beat  them  up  with  a  little  rose-water  and  nutmeg,  and  a 
little  salt  and  sugar.  Mix  all  well  together,  and  put  it  into 
your  cloth  •  tie  it  loose  to  give  it  room  to  swell,  and  boil  it  an 
honr«  When  done,  put  it  into  your  dish,  pour  melted  butter 
over,  and  serve  it  to  table. 

A  mare  expensive  Bread  Pudding* 

Cut  thin  all  tbe  crumbs  of  a  stale  penny  loaf,  and  pni 
it  inta  a  quart  of  cream,  set  it  over  a  slow  fire  till  it  is 
scalding  hoi,  and  then  let  it  stand  till  it  is  cold.  Beat  up  the 
bread  and  cream  well  together,  and  grate  in  some  nutmeg. 
Xake  twelve  bitter  almonds,  boil  them  in  two  spoonfuls  of 
water,  pour  the  water  to  the  creamy  stir  it  in  with  a  b'ttJe  salt, 
«nd  sweeten  it  to  your  taste.  Blanch  the  almonds  in  a  mortar^ 
with  two  spoonfuls  of  xose  or  nrakige-flower  water,  till  they  axa 


344  DOMIfiSTIC  COOKERY. 

a  fine  paste ;  then  mix  them  by  degrees  with  the  cream.  Tak« 
the  yolks  o^  eight  ^gs,  and  the  whites  of  four,  beat  them  up 
well,  put  them  into  the  cream  likewifiie,  and  mix  the  whole 
well  together.  Dip  your  cloth  into  warm  water,  and  floar  I^ 
well,  before  yon  put  in  the  pudding;  tie  it  loose,  and  let  it 
boil  an  hour.  Take  care  the  water  boils  when  you  put  it  in, 
and  that  it  keeps  so  all  the  time.  When  it  is  enough,  tqm  it 
into  your  dish  Melt  some  butter,  and  put  in  it  two  or  three 
spoonfuls  of  white  wine  or  sack ;  give  it  a  boil,  and  pour  it 
over  your  pudding.  Then  strew  a  good  deal  of  fine  sugar  over 
your  pudding  and  dish,  and  send  it  hot  to  table.  Instead  of  a 
cloth,  you  may  boil  it  in  a  bowl  or  basin,  which  is  indeed  the 
better  way  of  the  two.  '  In  l^is  case,  when  it  is  enough,  take 
it  up  in  the  basin,  and  let  it  stand  a  minute  or  two  to  cool ; 
ihen  untie  the  string,  wrap  the  cloth  round  the  basin,  lay 
your  dish  over  it,  and  turn  the  pudding  out ;  then  take  off  the 
basin  and  cloth  with  great  care,  otherwise  a  light  pudding  will 
be  subject  to  break  in  turning  out 

Brawn  Bread  Pudding. 

Half  a  pound  of  stale  brown  bread  grated,  ditto  of  cnr« 
rants,  ditto  of  shred  suet,  sugar  and  nutmeg ;  mix  with  four 
eggs,  a  spoonful  of  brandy,  and  two  spoonfuls  of  cream ;  boil 
in  ^  cloth  or  baain  that  exactly  holds  it,  three  or  four  hours. 

Little  Bread  PuddingB. 

Steep  the  crumbs  of  a  penny  loaf,  grated,  in  about  a  pint 
«f  warm  milk;  when  soaked,  beat  six  eggs,  whites  and 
yolksi  and  mix  with  the  bread,  and  two  ounces  of  butter  warm* 
ed,  sugar,  orange-flower  water,  a  spoonful  of  brandy^  a  little 
nutmeg,  and  a  tea-cupful  of  cream.  Beat  all  well,  and  bake 
in  tea-cups  buttered.  If  currants  are  chosen,  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  is  sufficient;  if  not,  they  are  good  without:  or  you  may 
put  orange  or  lemon  candy.     Serve  with  pudding  sauce. 

Puddings  in  haste. 

Shred  suet,  and  put  with  grated  bread,  a  few  currants,  the 
yolks  of  four  eggs  and  the  whites  of  two,  some  grated  lemon 
peel  and  ginger.  Mix ;  and  make  into  little  balls  about  the  sLee 
and  shape  of  an  egg,  with  a  little  flour. 


^UBDIMOS*     ''-  MS 

•Hftve  ready  n  akiUet  of  boiling  watcr^  attd  dnwir  tfieiii  faL 
Twenty  minutes  will  l>oil  them;  but  tliey  will  riit  tolfaetxip 
when  done.—- Serve  with  pudding  sauce. 

Ahmmd  Pmdding. 

Beat  half  a  pound  of  sweet  and  a  few  bitter  almonds  with  M 
spoonful  of  w^r ;  then  mix  four  ounces  of  butter,'  four  eggs^ 
two  spoonf^  of  cream,  warm  with  the  butter,  one  of  brandy^ 
a  Gttle  nutmeg,  and  iugar  to  taste.  Butter  some  cupb,  half-filly* 
and  bake  the  puddiogs.    Serve  wiith  liutter^  Inne,  and  sugar. 

Baked  Ahnond  PwUing. 

Beat  fine  four  ounces  of  almonds,,  four  or  five  bitter  ditto, 
with  a.  little  wine,  yolks  of  six  eggs,  peel  of  two  lemons 
gmted,  six  ounces  of  butter^  near  a  quart  of  cream,  and  juice 
of  one  lemon.  When  well  .mixed,  bake  it  half  an  hour,  with 
paste  round  the  dish. 

Small  Almond  Pudding. 

Pound  eight  ounces  of  almonds,  and  a  few  bitter,  with  a 
qpoonftti  of  water;  mix  with  four  ounces  of  butter  warmed, 
four  yolks -and  two  whites  of  eggs,  sugar  to  taste,  two  spoon- 
fuls of  cream,  and  one  of  brandy ;  mix  well,  and  bake  in  little 
cups  buttered.     Serve  with  padding  sauce. 

•i 
Sago  Pudding. 

Soil  a  pint  juid  a  half  of  new  milk>  with  four  spoonfuls,  of 
sago  nicely  washed  and  incke4>  lempn  p^el,  cinnamon,  ai|di 
nutmeg ;  sweeten  to  taste ;  then  mix  four  eggs,  put  a  paste 
round  the  dish,,  and  bake  slowly. 

Bread  and  Butter  Pudding. 

Youmust  have  a  dish  that  will  hold  a  quart  s-^wash  .and 
pick  two  ounces  of  currants,  strew  a  few  at  the  bottom  of  the 
dish,  cut  about  four  layers  of  very  thin  bread  and  butter,  and 
between  each  layer  of  bread  and  butter  strew  some  Qirrants; 
then  break  four  eggs  in  a  basin,  leaving  out  one  white,  beat 
them  well,  and  add  four  ounces  of  sugar  and  a  dram  of  nut* 
meg,  stir  it  well  together  with  a  pint  of  new  milk,  pour  UnMr 
13  2y 


946  BOMSSTI.C  .COOKERY. 

^ut.  fen  mittuCes  b^ve  you  pat  it  in  the  bven.     It  will  take 
thrae  quartets  ^  an,  hour  to  b«ke. 

A  wry  fine  Amber  Pudding. 

Pat  a  pound  of  buttar  into  a  sauce-pan^  with  three  quarters 
«f  ;a  pound  of  loaf  sugar  finely  powdered ;  melt  the  buttcsr,  and 
mix  well  with  it ;  then  add  the  yolks  of  fifteen  eggs  well 
beaten,  and  as  much  fi'esh  candied  orange  as  will  add  colottr 
and  flavour  to  it»  being  first  beaten  to  a  fine  paste.  Line  the 
aish  with  paste  for  taming  out ;  and  when  filled  inth  the 
aboTe,  lay  a  crust  over,  as  you  would  a  pie,  and  bake  it  in  a- 
slow  oven.— It  is  as  good  cold  as  hot. 

Oatmeal  Pudding. 

Pour  a  quart  of  boiling  milk  over  a  pint  of  the  best  fine  oat* 
meal :  let  it  soak  all  night ;  next  day  beat  two  eggs,  and  mix 
a  little  salt ;  butter  a  basin  that  will  just  hold  it;  cover  it  tight 
with  a  floured  doth,  and  boil  it  an  hour  and  a  half.  Eat 
it  with  cold  butter  and  salt. 

When  cold,  slice  and  toast  it,  and  eat  it  as  oat»cake  buttered. 

Ldght  or  German  Puddings  or  P^ffs. 
Melt  three  ounces  of  butter  in  a  pint  of  cream ;  let  it  stand 
till  nearly  cold ;  then  mix  two  ounces  of  fine  flour,  and '  two 
ounces  of  sugar,  four  yolks  and  two  whites  of.  eggs,  and  a 
little  rose  or  orange  flower  water.  Bake  in  little  cups  buttered, 
half  an  hour.  They  should  be  serveci  the  moment  they  are 
done,  and  only  when  going  to  be  eaten,  or  they  will  not  be 
light.  Turn  out  (^  the  cups,  and  serve  with  white  wine  and 
sugar. 

» • 
Nelson  Pudding. 

Put  into  a  Dutch  oven  six  small  cakes  called  Nelson  balls, 
or  rice  cakes  made  in  small  tea*cups.  .When  quite. hot,  pour 
over  them  boiling  melted  butter,  white  wine,  and  sugar;  and 
serve. 

E^e's  Pudding. 
Grate  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  bread;  mix  it  with  the 
same  quantity  of  shred  suet,  ^the  same  of  apples,  and  also  of 


PUDDINGfi. 


'^ 


cuntnts;  mix  with  these  the  whole  of  four  tggB,  and  the  rind 
*  of  half  a  lemon  shred  fine.    Put  it  into  a  ahap^  boil  three 
hours ;  and  serve  with  pudding  sauce,  the  juice  of  half  a  lein«i, 
and  a  little  nutmeg. 

Quaking  Pmidmg^ 

Scald  a  quart  of  cream ;  when  almost  cold  put  to  it  four 

eggs  well  beaten,  a  spoonful  and  a  hal^  of  flour,  some  nutmegs 

'  and  su^;  tie  it  dose  in  a  butlered  doth ;  boil  it  an  hour; 

aiid  torn  it  out  with  care,  lest  it  shoold  crack.    Melted'buttar, 

m  Utile  wine,  and  sugar.  :     .     . 

TVansparent  Pudding. 

Beat  eight  eggs  very  well ;  put  them  into  a  stew-pan,,  with 
half  a  pound  of  sugar  pouiided  fine,  the  same  quantity  of  but- 
ter, and  some  nutmeg  grated.  Set  it  on  the  fire,  and  keep 
stirring  it  till  it  thickens.  Then  set  it  into  a  basin  to  cool ;  p^t 
a  ridi  pofl^  paste  round  the  edge  of  the  dish ;  pour  in  your  p^d* 
ding,  and  bake  it  in  a  moderate  oven.  It  will  cut  light  and 
dear.     You  may  add  candied  orange  and  dtron,  if  you  like 

Macaroni  Pudding. 

Simmer  an  ounce  or  two  of  the  pipe  sort,  in  a  pint  of  mil£, 
and  a  bit  of  lemon  and  dnnamon,  till  tender;  put  it  into  a^isR, 
with  milk,  two  or  three  eggs,  but  only  pne  white;  sugar,  nut- 
meg, a  spoonful  of  peach  water,  and  half  a  glass  of  raisin 
wine.     Bake  with  a  paste  round  the  edges. 

A  layer  of  orange-marmalade,  or  raspberry  jam,  in  a  maca- 
roni pudding,  fordiange,  is  a  great  improvement;  in  which 
case  oinit  the  almond  water,  or  ratafia,  which  you  would  otiier- 

wise  flavour  it  with. 

I         -  » 

An  exeeHeni  Apricot  Puddings* 

Halve  twelve  large  apricots,  give  them  a  scald  till  they  are 
soft ;  mean  time  pour  on  the  grated  crumbs  of  a  penny  loaf, 
a  pint  of  boiling  cream ;  when  half  cold,  four  ounces  of  sugar, 
the  yolks  of  four  beaten  eggs,  and  a  glass  of  white  wine. 
Pound  the  apricots  in  a  mortar,  with  some  or  all  of  the.. ker- 
nels ;  mix  then  the  firuit  and  other  ingredients  together ;  put  a 
paste  round  a  diafti,  and  bake  the  pudding  half  an  hour. 


94B  DOMjUTIC  COOKBRT. 

.  A  Green-hcan  Pvddi»g- 

Boil  food  bitfiehold  beaYi8;1>eat  tb^A  in  a  mortar,  with  ^v^eiy 
little'pet»pelrlttid  talt,  tome  cream,'  lud  the  yolk  of  an  egg.  A 
little  spinach  juice  will  give  a  finer  cdour,  but  it  H  as  good 
without.  Boil  it  in  a  basin  that  will  just  hold  it,  an  hour;  and 
pour  parsley  and  butter  oVer.    Serve  bacon  to  eat  with  it. 

Shelf ord  Pudding. 

Mix  three  qa^atan  of  a  pontid  <»f  cmraots  or  raisins,  one 
pound  of 'suet,  qine  poiitid  of  flour,  six  eggs,  a  Uttlegoed  milk; 
tome  lemon-peel,  a  little  salt.  Boil  it  in  a  melon-ehaiie.  aiz 
hours. 


0. 


Brandy  Pudding. 

Line  4  moold  with  jar-raisins  stoned,  or  dried  cherries, 
then  with  thin  8llcei|  of  French  roll,  n'ex^  to  which  put  ratafias, 

.  or  macaroqns;  th^^  the  fruit,  rolls,  and  cakes,  in  succession, 
until  the  mould  be  full ;  sprinkling  ia^  at  times  two  glassea  of 

:  brandy.;  Beat  four  egg|,  yolks  and  wlfites ;  put  to  a  pint  of 
milji  or  oream^  %^y  sweetened,  half  a  nutmeg,-  and  tl|be 
rind  of  half  a  lemon  finely  grated.  Let  the*  liquid  sink  into 
the  solid  part :  then  flour  a  doth,  tie  it  tight  over,  and  boil 
one^hour ;  keep  the  mould  the  right  side  pp.  Serve  with  pud- 
sauce. 


'0 


Buttermilk  Pudding* 

Warm  three  quarts  of  new  milk ;  tpm  it  with  a  quart  of 
.battermilk;  drain  the  curd  through  a  sieve ;  when  dry,  pound 
it  ma  marliile  mortar,  with  near  half  a  pound  of  sugar,  a  lemon 
boiled  tender,  the  crumbs  of  a  roll  grated,  a  nutmeg  grated^ 
six  bitter  almonds,  four  ounces  of  warm  butter,  a  tea-eupful 
of  good  cream,  the  yolks  of  five  and  whites  of  three  eggs,  a 
glass  of  sweet  wine,  and  diliio  of  brandy.   - 

When  well  incorporated;  bake  in  small  oixg%  or  bowk  well 
battered;  if  the  bottom  be  not  brown,  use  a  salamander;  but 
serve  as  quick  aapossible,  and' with  pudding  sauce. 

Curd  Puddingi,  w  Pvff$. 
Turn  two  quarts  of  milk,  to  curd,  press  the  whey  from  Hi 
fji^tbrongh  a  sieve,  and  mix  four  onncea  of  butter,   the 


y  PCP0INO8.  .  849 

crumba  of  a  penny  loaf^  tmo  apoonfab  ofctetan,  «nd  half  a 
nutmegs  a  small  quantity  of  sugar,  and  two  spoonfuls  of  white 
"wine.  Butter  little  cups^  or  small  pattepaus,  and  fill  them 
three  parts.  Orange-flower  water  is  an  improvement.  Bake 
them  with  cure.    Serve  with  sweet  sauce  in  a  boat 

Boiled  Curd  Puddmg. 

Bab  the  curd  of  two  galkos  of  nnUiweU  dnined  through 

a  sieve.    Mix  it  with  six  eggsy  a^Jittle  CBesm,  two  ^oonfuls  of 

>  ennge-flawer  wtter,  half  antttoi^^  floar4ind  cruiabs  of  bread 

.  eadi  three  speonfols,  carrsots  and  raisins  half  a  poond'of  each. 

Boil  an  hour-in « thick  wsU-flooredeloCh. 


Pippin 

mm  MM 

''  Coddle  six  pippins  in  vine  leaves  covert  with  water^  very 
'gehtly^  that  the  inside  b^  done  without  breaking  the  skinfl. 
When'softy  skin,  and  with  a  tea-spoon  take  the  pulp  from  the 
core.  '  Press  it  through  a  colander;  add  two  spoonfuls  (df 
^^nrange^flower  water,  three  eggs  beaten,  a  glass  o€  raisin  ^ne^ 
a  pint  of  scalded  cream,  sugar  and  nutmeg  to  taste.  '  Lay  a  thin 
puff  paste  at  the  bottom  and  sides  of  the  dish ;  shred  very  thin 
lemon-peel  as  fine  as  possible,  and  put  it  into  the  dish ;  like- 
wise lemon,  orange,  aiid  citron^  in  small  slices,  but  not  so-tMi 
as  to  dissolve  in  the  baking. 

^       .  A  quick-made  Pudding, 

.  piaar  and' suet  half  4  pound  eacbi  four.ei^p^,  a.qifarter  of 
a  pint  of  new  milk,  a  little  mace  and  nutmeg,  a  quarter  of  a 
pound pf  raisins,  ditto  of  currants;  mix  well,  and  boil  three 
quarters  of  an  hour  with  the  cover  -of  th^pot  on,  or  it  will 
require  longer. 

A  Welsh  Pudding. 

Itet  half  a  pound  of  fine  butter  melt  gently,  beat  with  it 
the  yolks  of  eight  and  whites  of  ibur  eggs,  mix  in  six  ounces 
of  loaf' sugar,,  and  the  riad  of  a  lemon  grated.  Put  a  paste 
intea  dish  foi!  turning  oiit,.  and.  pour  the4dbove  in,;. and. nicely 
bake  it.         :     . 


350  '  DOMESTIC  COOKERT. 

Yeoit  or  Stffolk  Dumplings. 

Make  a  very  light  dough  with  jrea8t>  as  for  breads  but  with 
milk  instead  of  water,  and  put  salt.  Let  it  rise  an  hour  before 
the  fire. 

Twenty  minutes  before  you  are  to  serve,  have  ready  a  Targe 
stew-pan  of  boiling  water ;  make  the  dough  into  balls,  the  sixe 
of  a  middling  apple ;  throw  them  in,  and  boil  twenty  minutes. 
If  you  doubt  when  done  enough,  stick  a  dean  fork  inia  one, 
and  if  it  come  out  dear,  it  is  done. 

The  way  to  eat  them  is,  to  tear  them  apart  on  the  top  with 
.two  forks,  for  they  become  heavy  by  their  own  steam.  Eat 
immediately  with  meat,  ot  sugar  and  butter,  or  salt. 

Spring  Fruit  Pudding. 

Peel  and  well  wash  four  dozen  sticks  of  rhubarb,  put  into 
a  stew-pan  with  the  pudding,  a  lemon,  a  little  cinnamon,  and 
as  much  moist  sugar  as  will  make  it  quite  sweet,  .set  it  over  a 
fire,  and  reduce  it  to  a  marmalade,  pass  through  a  hair  sieves 
and  proceed  as  directed  for  the  Boston  apple  pudding,  leaving 
out  the  lemon  juice,  as  the  rhubarb  will  be  found  suffidently 
add  of  itself. 

Thnsey  Pudding. 

Put  as  much  boiling  cream  to  four  Naples  biscuits  grated 
as  will  wet  them,  beat  them  with  the  yolks  of  four  eggs.  Have 
ready  a  few  chopped  tansey  leaves,  with  as  much  spinach  as  will 
make  it  pretty  green.  Be  careful  not  to  put  too  much  tansey 
in,  beiUiuse  it  wUl  make  it  bitter.  Mix  all  together  when  the 
cream  is  cold,  with  a  little  sugar,  and  set  it  over  a  slow  fire 
till  it  grows  thick ;  then  take  it  oiF^  and' when  cold,  put  it  in  a 
doth,  well  buttered  and  floured ;  tie  it  up  close,  and  let  it 
boil  three  quarters  of  an  hour ;  then  take  it  up  in  a  basin,  and 
let  it  stand  one  quarter ;  then  turn  it  carefully  out,  and  put 
white  wine  sauce  round  it* 

Herb  Pudding. 

Steep  a  quart  of  grits  in  warm  water  half  an  hour,  and 
then  ciit  a  pound  of  hog^s  hurd  into  little  biu.  Take  of  spinadi, 
beets,  parsley,  and  leeks,  a  handful  of  each:  three  large 
gnions  chopped  small^  and  three  sage  leaves  cut  very  fine.  Put 


PAlfCAKSft  .AND  FRITTSR8.  361; 

in  a  litth.Mlt,  i9|x  all  well  togetb^^  an^  tie  it  dote.    It  will 

■ 

rei|aiie  to-be  taken  up  while  boiling,  .in  order  to  loosen  the 


A  Charlotte. 

Cat  aa  many  very  thih  sliees  of  white  bread  as  will  cover 
bottom  and  line  the  sides  of  a  bakingrdisb,  but  first  rub  it 
duck  with  butter.  .  Put  apples  in  thin  jUces  into  the  dish,  in 
Isjersy  till  foU^  strewing  sugar  between,  and  bits  of  butter. 
In  the  mean  time,  soak  as  many  thin  slices  of  bread  as  wiU. 
cover  the  whole,  in  warm  milk,  over  which  lay  a  plate,  and  a 
weight  to  keep  the  bread  close  on  the  apples.  Bake  slowly 
three  hours.  To  a  middfing^siaed  dish  use  half  a  pound  of 
bolter  in  the  wholf . 


V 


PANCAKES  AND  FRITTERS. 


an  ^aneake$  and  FfitUn, 

JLHE  principal. things  to  be  observed,  of  a  general  nature,  in 
dressing  these  artides  is,  th^t  your  pan  be  thoroughly  clean, — 
that  yon  6ry  them  in  nice  sweet  laid,  or  fresh  butter,  of  a 
light  brown  colour, — and  th^t  the  g^rease  is  thoroughly  drained 
firem  them  before  you  carry  them  to  table. 

Pancakes. 

Beat  six  or  eight  ^^  well  together,  leaving  out  half  the 
whites,  and  stir  them  into  a  quart  of  milk.  Mix  your  flour 
first  with  a  little  of  the  milk,  and  then  add  the  rest  by  degrees. 
Put  in  two  spoonfuls  of  beaten  ginger,  and  a  little  salt,  and 
stir  all  well  together.  Put  a  piece  of  butter  into  your  stew- 
pan,  and  then  pour  in  a  ladleful  of  batter,  which  will  make  a 
psncake,  moving  the  pan  round,  that  the  batter  may  spread  all 
over  it.  Shake  the  pan,  and  when  you  think  one  side  is  enough, 
turn  it ;  and  when  both  sides  are  done,  lay  it  in  a  dish  betore 


352'  0OMI^TIC  OOOKBHir.      ^ 

the  fire;  atid  in  Xke  Wanner  do  the  re^t/  B^fi)Jhe  yratake  d»iii*' 
out  of  tBe  pan,  raise  it « little^  that  tKey  mqr  dinu^  and  be^' 
quite  clear  of  grease.  When  you  send  them  to  table,  strew  si~ 
little  sugar  over  them. 

Rke- Pmneak^9^: 

*  • 

:   ^Boil  half  a  pound  ef  rioe  toia  jelly,*tn  a  nuaU  quantity  off 
water;  whencold^  n^itwith  apisft  <^f  cream,  eightcf^s^  a 
bk  of  salt,  and  nutmeg;  stir  in  e^ht. ounces  4»f . buttei» -josb 
Inarmed,  and  add  as  mudi  flour  »  will  make  iliie  batter  thick 
enough.    Fry  in  as  little  lard  or  dripping  as  fKwaible. 


'     Irish  Pmmomku*       • 

Beat  eight  yolks  and  four  whites  of  ^^-s^  strain  thsm  h 
a  pint  of  cream,  put  a  grated  nutmeg,  and  sugar  to  your  taste ; 
set  three  ounces  of  fresh  butter  on  the  fire,  sdr  it,  and  as  it 
warms  pour  it  to  the  cream,  which  should  be  warm  when  tbe 
eggs  are  put  to  it :  then  mix  smooth  almost  half  a  pint  of  flour.. 
Fry  the  pancakes  very  thin ;  the  first  with  a  bit  of  butter,  but 
not  the  others.    Senre  severaltin  oneanothsr* 

NeuhEngland  Pancakes. 
Mix  a  pfait'oftcresm,  five  spooonfolr  of  fiiie  flour,  seven 
yolks  and  four  whites  of  eggs,  and  a  very  little  salt;  firy  tfa^m 
very  thin  in  firesh  biitt^r,  and  between  eadi  strew  sugar  and 
dqnamon.    Send  up  six  or  eight  at  once. 

Pink'Cohured  Pancakes. 

Pancakes  of  a  beautiful  pink  colour  are  easily  made  by  die 
following  simple  process.— Boil,  till  tender,  a  large  beet  root, 
and  then  bruise  it  in  a  marble  mortar ;  put  to  it  the  yolks  of  four 
eggs^  two  spoonfuls  of  flour,  three  of  cream,  half  a  grated 
nutmeg,  sugar  to  pf^te,  and  a  glass  of  brandy.  Mix  them 
well  together,,  fry  them  carefully,  and  serve  th^m  up  with  « 
garnish  of  green  sweetmeats.  Fritters  may  be  made  of  diflte- 
ent  colours  in  a  similar  way. 

Fritters. 

Make  them  of  any  of  the  batters  directed  for  pancakes,  by 
dropping  a  small  quantity  into  the  pan ;  or  make  the  plainer 


PANCAKBS  ANB  FRITTSR5.  868 

•oTt,  and  put  paxed  apples,  sliced  andooredj,  into  the.batter«  aii4 
fry  some  of  it  with  each  slice.  Currants, .  or  sliced  lemon  as 
thin  as  paper,  make  an  agreeable  change.— Fritters  for  com- 
pany should  be  served  on  a  folded  napkin  in  the  dish.  Any 
sort  o£  sweetmeat,  or  ripe  firuit,  may  be-  made  into  fritters. 

Potato  Fritters, 

Boil  two  large  potatoes,  scrape  them  fine ; .  beat  fovs  yolks 
and  three  whites  of  eggs,  and  add  to  the  above  one  large 
spoonful  of  cream,  another  of  sweet  wine,  a  squeeze  of  lemon, 
and  a  little  nutmeg.  Beat  this  batter  half  an  hour  at  least  It 
will  be  extremely  light.  Put  a  good  quantity  of  fine  lard  in  a 
stew-pan,  and  drop  a  spoonful  of  the  batter  at  a  time  into  it. 
Fry  them ;  and  serve  as  a  sauce,  a  glass  of  white  wine,  the 
juice  of  a  lemon,  one  dessert-spoonful  of  peach-leaf  or  almond- 
water,  and  some  white  sugar,  warmed  together:  not. to  be 
served  in  the  dish. 

Parsnip  Fritters, 

Boil,  peel,  and  grate,  or  scrape  to  a  pulp,  two  large  par- 
snips ;  beat  them  up  with  four  yolks  and  two  whites  of  eggs, 
two  spoonfuls  each  of  cream  and  white  wine,  and  a  little  grated 
nutmeg.  Beat  them  together  for  nearly  an  hour,  till  the  bat* 
ter  becomes  very  light ;  then  fry  it  in  the  usual  manner  of  frit* 
ters,  with  a  great  quantity  of  lard ;  and  serve  them  up  either 
with  lemon  or  orange  juice  and  sugar,  or  with  melted  butter, 
sugar,  and  white  wine. 

Custard  Fritters. 

Beat  up  the  yolks  of  eight  eggs  with  one  spoonful  of  fiour, 
half  a  nutmeg,  a  little  salt,  and  a  glass  of  brandy ;  add  a  pint 
of  cream,  sweeten  it,  and  bake  it  in  a  small  dish.  When  cold, 
cat  it  into  quarters,  and  dip  them  in  a  batter  made  of  half  a  pint 
of  cream,  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  milk,  four  eggs,  a  little  flour, 
and  a  little  ginger  grated.  Fry  them  in  a  good  lard  or  drip- 
ping, and  when  done  strew  over  them  some  grated  sugar. 

Apple  Fritters. 
Take  some  of  the  largest  apples  you  can  get ;  pare  and  core 
them,  and  then  cut  them  into  round  slices.    Take  half  a  pint 
IS  2  z 


854  OOMBSTIC  COOKBRT. 

of  ale  and  twoeggs,  and  beat  in  as  mttch  flour  at  wiU  make  it 
rather  thicker  than  a  common  pudding,  with  nutmeg  and  sugar 
to  3r6ur  tast^.  f^erit  atand  three  or  four  minutes  to  rise.  Dip 
^ar  sKces  of  apple  into  the  batter,  fry  them  crisp,  and  serve 
them  up  with  sugar  grated  over' them,  iand^wine  sauce  in  a  bcHit. 

VTatar  Fritieri. 

Take  five  or  ox  spoonfuls  of  flour,  a  litfle  salt,  a  quart  of 
water,  eight  eggs  well  beat'  up,  a'  glass  'df  brandy,  and  mix 
them  all  well  together^  The  longer  they  are  made  befiwe 
dressed,  the  better.  Just  before  you  da  them,  melt  half  a 
pound  (of  butter,  and  beat  Vi  t^O  in.    Fry  them  in  hc^'s  lard. 

'■''•'  Rke FriHeri.   •  •  -'^s 

Boil  a'quak'ter  of  a  pound'  of  ti6e  in  inilk  till  it  is  pretty 
ihick;  then  mix'  it  with  a*  pibt  6t  ctesm,  fohr  eggs,  some 
sugar,  cinnamon,  and  nutmeg,  six  ounces  of  currants  washed 
and  picked,  a  little  salt,  and  as.  much  flour  as  will  make  it  a 
thick  batter.  Fry  theiln  in  little  cakes  iti  boiling  lard,  and  when 
done,  send  them  up  with  whit^  sdgar  aiid  butter. 

Chicken  Frittetw. 

Put  on  a  stew-pan  with  some  new  milk,  and  as  much  flour 
of  rice  as  will  be  necessary  to  make  it  of  a  tolerable  thickness. 
Beat  three  or  four  eggs,  the  yolks  and  whites  together,  and 
mix  them  well  with  the  rice  and  milk.  Add  to  them  a  pint  of 
rich  cream,  set  it  over  a  stove,  and  stir'^t  ivell.  Put  in  some 
powdered  sugar,  some  candied  lemon  peel  cut  small,  and  some 
fiesh  grated  lemon  peel.  Take  all  the  white  meat  from  a 
hMSted  chicken,  ^ull  it  into  sidaH  shredl,  put  it  to  the  rest  of 
the  ingredients,  and  stir' it  all  together.  Then  take  it  ofl*,  and 
It  will  be  a  very  rich  paste:  Roll  it  out,  cut  it  into  small  fiit* 
ters,  and  fry  them  in  boiling  lard;  Strew  the  bottom  of  tiie 
dish  with  sugar  fitiely  powdcAred.  Putin  the  fritters,  and  shake 
iome  sugar  over  then.    "^  '  ^  ^ 

Oraimge  FritUn. 

Take  five  or  six  swe^t  iirii^ges,  *pare  off  the  outside  as  thin 
as  possible,  and  cut  them  in  quarters ;  take  out  die  seeds  and 
6oil  the  oranges  with  a  little  sugar;  make  a  paste  with  sone 


wbilewiiie,  floor,  a  qpooofiil  txf  jBrefh,))atte^  m^ltjMl,  vul  a[ 
little  sah;  mix  it  neitlier  too  thick  nor  too  thin ;  it  shoold  rope 
In  poaring  from  the  spoon.    Dip  the  quarters  of  your  orange 
into  Aw  patte,  and  fry  tb^pi  in  bpg.>  l^d  till  they  are  of  a  li|^t 
brown.    Serve  them.fflased  with  fine  ^ngn  and  a  salanuinder. 


J  .  Strmtieny  Hitters. 

Make  a  batter  with  flour,  a  spoonfal  of  eweet  oiU  another 
of  white  wine,  a  little  raaped  lemon  peel,  and  the  whitei  of 
two  or  three  eggs;  make  it  pretty  soft,  just  fit  to  drop  with^ar 
spoon.  Mix  some  large  strawberries  with  it,  and  drop  them 
with  a  spoon  into  tha  hot  fritters.  Whsn  of  a  good  colour' 
take  them  out,  and  drain  them  on  a  deye.  When  done,  strew 
■one  sugar  over  them,  or  glace' them  and  send  them  to  table. 

Aujpkrfy  Fiitter$* 

Grate  the  crumbs  of  a  French  roll,  or  two  Naples  biscuitfli, 
and  put  to  it  a  pint  of  boiling  cream.  When  cold,  add  to  it 
the  yolks  of  four  eggs  wdl  beat  up.  Mix  all  well  together 
with  some  raspberry  juice;  drop  them  into  a  pan  of  boiling 
lard  in  very  small  quantities.  When  done  slick  them  with 
blanched  almonda  slioed. 

• 

Currant  Fritters. 

Take  half  a  pint  of  ale  that  is  noi^  bitter,  and  stir  into  it  as 
much  flour  as  will  make  it  pretty  thick  with  a  few  currauts. 
Beat  it  up  quick,  have  the  lard  boiling,  and  put  a  large  spoon* 
ful  at  a  time  into  the  pan. 

Get^num  Fritters. 

Take  some  well  tasted  cri^p  apples,  pare,  .quarter,,  and^re 
them ;  take  the  pore  quite  out,  and  cut  them  into  round  nieoea; 
Put  into  a  stew-pan  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  French  bran()j(,  «. 
table-apoonful  of  fine  sugar  pounded,  and  a  little  cinnaippn.^ 
Put  the  apples  into  this  liquor,  and  set  them  over  a  gentle  fire^^ 
stirring  them  often,  but  not  to  break  them.  Set  on  a  fitew-pan 
with  some  lard.  When  it  boils  drain  the  apples,  dip  them  in 
some  fine  flour,  and  put  them  into  the  pan.  Strew  soMie  sugar 
over  the  dish,  and  set  it  on  the  fire;  lay  in  the  fritters,  strew 


366  '     DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

little  ragar  over  them,  and  glaze  them  over  with  a  red  hot 
salamander. 

Almond  fraze. 

'  Steep  a  pound  of  Jordan  almonds  blanched  in  a  pint  of 
cream»  ten  yolks  of  eggs,  and  four  whites.  Then  take  out  the 
almonds,  and  pound  them  fine  in  a  mortar ;  mix  them  again  in 
the  cream  and  eggs,  and  put  in  some  sugar  and  grated  white 
bread.  Stir  them  all  togetlier,  put  some  fresh  butter  into  the 
pan,  and  as  soon  as  it  is  hot,  pour  in  the  batter,  stirring  it  in  the 
pan  till  it  is  of  a  good  thickness.  When  enough,  turn  it  into  a 
dish,  and  throw  some  sugar  over  it. 

Backings. 

Mix  three  ounces  of  buck-wheat  flour,  with  a  tea-cupful 
of  warm  milk,  and  a  spoonful  of  yeast;  let  it  rise  before  the 
fire  about  an  hour;  then  mix  four  eggs  well  beaten,  and 
as  much  milk  as  will  make  the  batter  the  usual  thickness  fat 
pancakes,  and  firjr  them  the  same. 


VEGETABLES. 

dburvoHons  on  dressing  FegctaUes. 

▼  E6ETABLES  are,  generally  speaking,  a  wholesome  diet, 
but  become  very  prejudicial  if  not  properly  dressed. 

The  principal  object  of  the  cook  is,  that  they  shodd 
look  well,  and  it  is  certainly  very  desirable  they  should  do 
wo,  as  nicety  is  not  only  pleasing  to  the  eye,  but  essential 
with  regard  to  preserving  the  best  qualities  of  every  thing. 
The  true  criterion  of  their  beauty  is  their  suitabili^  for  the 
purpose  intended.  Let  them  be  carefully  adapted  to  this,  by 
being  neither  under  nor  overdone,  and  they  will  not  fail  to 
please  both  a  correct  eye  and  taste,  as  well  as  to  constitute  a 
wholesome  species  of  diet. 


YEOBTABLBS*  867 

A  most  pernicious  practice  in  the  dressing  of  vegetables  ii 
often  adopted  by  oooks^  of  putting  copper  in  with  them,  in 
the  form  of  halfpence.  They  probably  never  reflect  on  these 
being  copper^  but  only  use  them  as  endowed,  they  know  not 
bow^  with  the  quality  of  giving  a  green  colour.  This  is  a  lasy 
way  of  sparing  their  own  pains ;  for^  if  put  into  boiling  water 
with  some  salt  in  it,  and  boiled  up  directly,  they  will  be  as 
beautifully  green  as  the  most  fastidious  person  can  require.  A 
little  pearUash  might  be  safely  used  on  such  an  occasion,  and 
with  equal  effect.  And  in  the  instance  of  all  the  cabbage 
species,  with  some  further  advantage  from  its  alkaline  proper- 
ties,  being  a  corrector  of  acidity. 

In  the  English  manner  of  dressing  vegetables,  the  genuine 
jnices  and  flavour  of  them  are  very  much  lost  in  the  qitantity 
of  water  necessary  to  this  mode  of  cookery,  and  the  length 
of  time  they  must  be  kept  in  it  to  make  them  digestible. 
Whereas,  in  the  general  manner  of  dressing  them,  practised  by 
the  French,  the  juices  and  flavour  are  retained,  by  dressing 
^em  principally  in  their  own  juices,  or  with  only  such  a  quan- 
tity of  water,  or  other  liquid,  as  is  to  remain  a  part  of  the 
preparation.  And  as  they  always  cook  them  thoroughly,  they 
are  so  far  fr^  losing  the  recommendation  of  being  digestible, 
that  they  bate  even  the  advantage  of  being  more  so. 

Vegetables  forced  out  of  their  proper  season  are  never  to 
be  recommended,  as  they  always  fall  short  of  the  true  flavour 
Und  qualities  of  the  same  things  in  their  proper  season.  To 
instance  only  in  the  case  of  asparagus,  how  infinitely  inferior 
is  forced  asparagus  to  that  cultivated  in  its  due  season,  when 
nature  gives  it  growth  and  vigour.  The  never  acquiring  their 
fiiU  natural  qualities  makes  vegetables  liable  to  the  same  objec- 
tions, as  when  they  are  destroyed  by  bad  cookery. 
■  The  vegetable  kingdom  aflbrds  no  food  more  wholesome, 
more  easily  procured,  easily  prepared,  or  less  expensive,  than 
die  potato ;  yet  although  this  most  useful  vegetable  is  dressed 
almost  every  day,  in  almost  every  family, — for  one  plate  of 
potatoes  that  comes  to  table  as  it  should,  ten  are  spoiled. 

From  being  little  used  at  our  tables,  vegetables  have  been 
Kttle  noticed  in  our  cookery  books,  and  thus  one  means  has 
been  lost  of  acquiring  them  more  attention.  The  compiler  of 
the  present  work  has  been  therefore  induced  to  treat  this  sub- 


368  DOMB8T<€  COOKEET. 

ject  more  at  large,  with  a  view  both  to  the  introducing  a  greater 
variety  into  oar  methods  of  using  then),  and  a  fmer  use  of  them. 
at  our  tables,  than  the  general  customs  of  this  country  encou*- 
rage.    We  might  profit  greatly  by  this,  from  the  double  advao* 
tage  of  lesaemng  the  expense  of  our  tables,  and  promotion 
our  enjoyment  oC.hi^Ith,.  ... 

In  the  dressing  of  vegetables  nothing  more  is  requisite  than 
a  strict  attention  to  the  following  observations. 

Vegetables  should  be  always  ifs  freshly  gathered  as  possible. 

Where  they  conpqt  l^e  obtained  quite  freshj  it  will  revive 
them  greatly  to  let^  them  lie  a  good  while  in  cold  spring  water. 

They  should  neither  be  so  young  as  not  to  have  acquired 
their  good  qualities^  nor  so  old  as  tq  be  losing  them. 

Great  nicety  should  always  be  observed  in  trimming  pwajr 
all  the  offal  parts,  and  in  washing  them  well  from  insects  and  dirt.  ^ 

Some  salt  put  into  the  water  they  lie  in  to  cleanse,  will, 
assist  very  much  in  clearing  t^iem  from  insects. 

All  the  utensils  used  in  the  dressing  of  vegetables  should  be 
extremely  clean  and  nice ;  and  if  any  copper  vessel  is  ever  used 
for  the  purpose,  the  greatest  attention  must  be  paid  to  its  being 
well  tinned. 

The  scum  which  arises  from  vegetables  as  they  boil  should 
be  carefully  taken  off,  as  deanliness  is  essential  both  to  their 
looking  and  eating  well. 

The  lid  of  the  saucepan  should  always  be  taken  off  when 
they  boil,  to  give  access  to  the  air,  even  if  it  is  not  otherwise- 
thought  necessary. 

•        « 

To  choose  and  keep  Potatoee,  .  . 

Be  careful  in  your  choice  of  potatoes ;  no  vegetable  varies  . 
so  much  in  colour,  sise,  tlhape,  consistepoe,and  flavour.  The 
reddish  coloured  are  better  than  the  whiter  but  the  yellowish 
looking  ones  are  the  best  Choose  those  of  a  moderate  aise^ 
free  from  blemishes,  and  fresh,  and  buy  them,  in  the  mould ;. 
they  must  not  be  wetted  till  they  are  cleaned  to  be  cooked. 
Protect  them  from  the  air  and  frost  by  laying  them  in  heaps  in 
a  cellar,  covering  them  with  mats,  or  burying  them  in  sand  or 
earth.  The  action  of  fr^st  is  most  destructive ;  if  it  be  con- 
siderable, the  life  of  die  vegetable  is  destroyed,  and  the  potato 
speedily  rots. 


TBGSTABLBS*  9M 

T0  baii  PotBioei. 

Waili  theniy  bat  do  not  pare  or  cut  them  unless  they  are 
very  large,— fill  a  sauce-pan  half  full  of  potatoes  of  an  equal 
sise^  or  the  smdl  ones  wUl  be  done  to  pieebs  before  the  large 
ones  are  boiled  enough.  Put  to  them  as  much-  cold  water  as 
will  cover  them  about  an  inch:  they  ire  sooner  boiled^  and 
more  savoury  than  when  drowned  in  water.  Most  boiled 
things  are  spoiled  by  having  too  little  water^'  but  potatoes  are 
ofteh  spoiled  by  too  much :  they  must  merdy  be  covered,  and 
A  littie  allowed  for  waste  in  boiling,  so  that  they  may  be  just 
covered  at  the  finish. 

Sec  them  on  a  moderate  fire  till  they  boil,  then  take  them 

fifi;  and  set  them  by  the  side  of  the  fire  to  simmer  slowly  till 

tltey.  are  soft  enough  to  admit  a  fork,  (place  no  dependence  on 

the  usosl  test  of  their  skin  cracking,  which,  if  they  are  boiled 

last»  will  happen  to  some  potatoes  when  they  are  not  half  done^ 

and  the  inside  is  quite  hard,) — then  pour  the  water  ofi;  (if  you 

let  the  potatoes  remain  in  the  water  a  moment  after  they  are 

done  en<Hsgh,  they  will  beiSoifeie  waxy  and  watery,}  uncover  the 

^sau^pan,  and  set  it  at  such  a  distance  frctm  tbe  fire  as  will 

secure  it  from  burning;  their  superfluous  moisture  will  evi^po- 

rate,  and  the  potatoes  will  be  perfectly  dry  and  mealy.     You 

may  aflerwards  place  a  napkin,  folded  up  to  the  suse  of  the 

sauce-pan''-s  diameterj,  over  the  potatoes,  to  keep  them  hot  and 

mealy  till  wanted. 

This  method  of  managing  potatoes  is  in  every  respect  equal 
to  steaming  them ;  and  they  are  dressed  in  half  the  time. 

To  $team  PotMioe$. 

The  potatoes  must  be  well  washed,  but  not  pared,  and 
put  into  the  steamer  when  the  water  boils.  Moderate  sised 
potatoes  Will  require  three-quarters  of  an  hour  to  do  them  pro- 
perly. They  should  be  taken  up  as  soon  as  they  are  done 
enough,  or  they  will  become  watery.  Peel  them  or  not  at 
pleasure. 

Potatoes  baihd  and  broiied. 

Bml  your  potatoes  as  before  directedi  and  put  them  on  a 
gridiron  over  a  very  clear  and  brisk  fife  ;•- turn  them  till  they 
are  brown  all  over,  and  send  them  up  dry,  with  mehecl  butter 
in  a  cup. 


960  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

CeU  Potatoes  fried. 

Put  a  bit  of  clean  dripping  into  a  frying-pan ;  when  it  is 
nelted,  slice  in  your  potatoes  with  a  little  pepper  and  salt,  put 
them  on  the  fire,  keep  stirring  them ;  when  they  are  quite  hot» 
they  are  ready. 

This  is  a  very  good  way  of  re-dressing  potatoes. 

Potatoes  fried  in  Slices  or  Shavings* 

Peel  large  potatoes ;  slice  them  about  a  quarter  of  an  inch 
thick,  or  cat  them  in  shavings  round  and  round  as  you  would 
peel  a  lemon ;  dry  them  well  in  a  clean  cloth,  and  fry  them  in 
lard  or  dripping.  Take  care  that  your  fat  and  frying-pan  are 
quite  clean ;  put  it  on  a  quick  fire,  watch  it,  and  as  soon  as  the 
lard  boils,  and  is  still,  put  in  the  slices  of  potato,  and  keep 
moving  them  till  they  are  crisp ;  take  them  up  and  lay  them  to 
drain  on  a  sieve;  send  them  up  with  a  very  little  salt  sprinkled 
ovex'  thetn. 

Potatoes  Jried  whole. 

When  nearly  boiled  enough,  put  them  into  a  stew-pan  with 
a  bit  of  butter,  or  some  nice  clean  beef  drippings ;  shake  them 
about  often  (for  fear  of  burning  them,)  till  they  are  brown  and 
crisp :  drain  them  from  the  fat. 

It  will  be  an  elegant  improvement  to  this  and  the  fore- 
going receipt,  previous  to  frying  the  potatoes,  to  fiour  them 
and  dip  them  in  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  and  then  roll  them  in  fine 
sifted  bread  crumbs;  they  will  then  deserve  to  be  called 
potatoes  full  dressed. 

Potatoes  mashed. 

When  your  potatoes  are  thoroughly  boiled,  drain  dry,  and 
pidK  out  every  speck,  &c.  and  while  hot,  rub  them  through  a 
colander  into  a  dean  stew-pan :  to  a  pound  of  potatoes  put 
about  half  an  ounce  of  butter,  and  a  table-spoonful  of  milk: 
do  not  make  them  too  moist ;  mix  them  well  together. 

After  lady-day,  when  the  potatoes  are  getting  old  and 
specky,  and  in  frosty  weather,,  this  is  the  best  way  of  dressing 
them.  Yott  may.  put  them  into  shapes,  egg  them  with  the  yolk 
•f  ^ggf  and  brown  them  very  slightly  before  a  slow  fire. 


Ml 

PotatoH  moihei  with  Oniant. 

"Prapire  mm^  hmJu&A  on&oAs,  by  potting  them  Hhrough  a 
feieve,  «ud  mix  tiiem  wkh  potatoes.  In  proportioning  tM 
onion^tatliepolitoes,  you  wiH  be  guided  by  your  widi  to  hare 
more  or  leas  of  their  flavour. 

PoMeet  ttcMoped. 

Mash  potatoes  ae  before  directed;  then  butter  some  nic^ 
dean  scollop  shells^  or  pattepans,  put  in  your  potatoes,  mak^ 
them  8mi>oth  at  the  top,  cross  a  knife  over  them,  strew  a  few 
fine  bread  crumbs  on  them,  sprinkle  them  with  a  paste  bruslSi 
with  a  few  drops  of  melted  butter,  and  theii  set  them  iti'  a 
Dutch  oven ;  when  they  are  browned  on  the  top,  take  them 
carefully  out  of  the  shells,  and  brown  the  other  side. 

Colcannon. 

Boil  potatoes  and  greens,  or  spihage,  separately.  Mash  the 
potatoes,  squeeze  the  greens  dry,  chop  them  quite  fine,  and 
mix  them  with  the  potatoes  with  a  little  butter^  pepper,  and  salt. 
Put  it  into  a  mould,  greasing  it  well  first;  let  it  stand  in  a  hot 
oven  for  ten  minutes. 

To  roast  Potatoes. 

W«sh  and  dry  your  potatoes  (all  of  a  siae,)  and  put  them  in 
a  tin  Dutch  oven,  or  cheese  toaster ;  take  care  not  to  put  them 
too  ns^  the  fire,  or  they  will  get  burnt  on  the  outside  before 
they  are  warmed  through.  Large  potatoes  will  require  twp 
hours  to  roast  them.  To  save  time  and  trouble,  some  cooks 
half  boil  them  first. 

This  is  one  of  the  best  opportunities  the  bidcer  has  to  rival 

the  cook. 

Potatoes  roasted  under  Meat. 
Half  boil  large  potatoes,  drain  the  water  from  them,  and 
t)nt  them  into  an  earthen  dish,  or  small  tin  pan,  under  meat 
that  is  roasting,  and  baste  them  with  some  of  the  dripping; 
when  they  are  browned  on  one  side,  torn  them  and  brows  the 
dther.  Send  them  up  round  the  meat,  cw  in  a  small  dish. 
IS  8  A 


%9li  BOMBSTIC  COOKBRT* 

Potato  Balls. 

Mix  mashed  potatow  with  the  yolk  of  an  tf^,  foU  theni 
into  ballsj  flour  them,  or  egg  and  bread  cnunb  thenij  and  fiy 
them  in  dean  drippinga,  or  brown  them  in  a  Dutch  oven. 

Potato  Snow. 
The  potatoes  must  be  free  from  spots,  ancL  the  whitest  yoa 
^  em  pick  out ;  putthem.on  in  cold  water;  when  they  begin  to 
crack,  strain  the  water  from  them,  and  pat  them  into  a  detfi 
stew-pan  by  the  side  of.  the  fire  till  they  are  quite  dry  and  £U1 
to  pieces ;  rub  them  through  a  wire  sieve  on  the  dish  they  are 
to  be  sent  up  in,  and  do  not  disturb  them  afterwards. 

To  dr€$$  New  Potatoes. 

The  best  way  to  clean  new  potatoes  is  to  rub  them  with  • 
coarse  doth  or  a  flannel,  or  scrubbiqg  brush.  Boil  them  as 
directed  in  the  first  receipt.  New  potatoes  are  poor,  watery^ 
and  insipid,  till  they  are  full  two  inches  diameter.  They  are 
hardly  worth  the  trouble  of  boiling  before  midsummer  day. 

Some  cooks  prepare  sauces  to  pour  over  potatoes,  nlade 
with  butter,  salt,  and  pepper,  or  gravy,  or  mdted  butter  and 
catsup,  or  stew  the  potatoes  in  ale,  or  water  seasoned  with  pep* 
per  and  salt;  or  bake  them  with  herrings,  or  sprats,  mixed 
with  layers  of  potatoes,  seasoned  with  pepper,  salt,  sweet 
herbs,  vinegar,  and  water;  or  cut  mutton  or  beef  into  slices; 
and  lay  thtai  in  a  stew-pan,  and  on  them  potatoes  and  spicev, 
then  another  layer  of  the  meat  alternately,  pouring  in  a  litde 
water,  covering  it  up  very  dose,  and  stewing  slowly. 

Jerusalem  Artkhakes. . 

These  are  boiled  and  di^ssed  in  the  various  ways  we  have 
just  before  directed  for  potatoes.  They  should  be  covered  widi 
thick  melted  butter,  or  a  nice  white  or  brown  sauce. 

CMhage. 

Pick  cabbages  very  dean,  and  wash  them  thorong^y,  then 
look  them  over  careAilly  i^gain ;  quarter  them  if  they  are  very 
'  large.    Put  them  into  a  aaoee-pan  with  plenty  of  boiling  water ; 

if  any  scum  rises,  take  it  off,  put  a  large  spoonful  of  salt  into 
tlie  sance-pan,  and  boil  th^  till  the  atalksiEed  tender.    A 


! 


f 


YXOBTABLlBfl.  MS 

yaoxkg  cMngp  will  take  about  twenty  ndnntes,  or  half  an 
lioiir ;  wheii  full  grown,  near  an  hour:  see  that  ^btiBy  are  well 
covered  with  water  all  the  timey  and  that  no  smoke  or  dirt 
ariaes  from  stirring  the  fire.  With  carefal  managementi  they 
ynil  look  as  beautiful  when  dressed,  as  they  did  when  growing* 
Seme  cooks  say,  that  it  will  much  ameliorate  the  flavour  of 
striHig  old  cabbages  to  boil  them  in  two  waters ;  t*  e.  when 
they  are  half  done,  to  take  them  out,  and  put  them  directly 
into  another  sauee>pan  of  boiling  water,  instead  of  continuing 
them  in  the  water  into  which  they  were  first  pat« 

These  are  boiled  in  the  same  manner  as  ciMMge;  quarter 
them  when  yon  send  them  to  table. 

V 

Spraui9  and  Young  Oreen$. 

The  receipt  we  have  written  for  cabbages  will  answer  as 
wdl  for  sprouts,  only  they  will  be  boiled  enough  in  fifteen  or 
twen^  minutes. 

Spinage. 

Spinage  should  be  picked  a  leaf  at  a  time,  and  washed  in 
three  or  four  waters ;  when  perfectly  dean,  lay  it  on  a  sieve, 
or  colander,  to  drain  the  water  from  it.  ^ 

Put  a  sauce«pan  on  the  fire,  three  parts  filled  with  water, 
and  large  enough  for  the  spinage  to  float  in  it;  put  a  small 
handful  of  salt  in  it,  let  it  boO,  skim  it/  and  then  put  in  the 
^inage;  make  it  boil  as  quick  as  possible,  till  quite  tender, 
pressing  the  spinage  down  frequently,  that  it  may  be  done 
equally ;  it  will  be  enough  in  about  ten  minutes,  if  boiled  in 
plenty  of  water;  if  the  spinage  is  a  little  old,  give  it  a  tew 
minutes  longer.  When  done,  strain  it  on  the  back  of  a  sievoj, 
aqueeze  it  dry  with  a  plate,  or  between  two  trenchers,  chop  it 
fine>  and  put  it  into  a  stew-pan  with  a  bit  of  butter  and  a  little 
salt;  a  Httle  cream  is  a  great  improvement,  or,  instead  of 
either,  some  rich  gravy.  Spread  it  in  a  dish,  and  score  it  into 
squares  of  proper  size  to  help  at  table. 

Grated  nutmeg,  or  mace,  and  a  little  lemon  juice,  is  a 
fiivourite  addition  with  some  cooks,  and  is  added  when  yon  stir 


•i 


8M  DOMBSTtC  .COOKERT. 

t  up  in  tiie  fltervr-pan  -wkk  the  butter  garnislied.    Spim^  h 
fivquentl^  acnred  wiA  poadied  eggs  with  fried  bread. 


Aiparagus* 

Set  a  sftew-pan  with  plenty  of  water  in  it  on  die  fire ;  8pnn« 
kle a  handful  of  salt  iu  it^  let  it  boil,  and  skim  it;  then  put  in 
your  asparagus^  prepared  thas :— -Scrape  all  the  stalks  tiH  diey 
are  perfectly  clean,  throw  them  into  a  pan  of  cold  water  as  ycm 
•crape  them ;  when  they  are  all  done,  tie  them  up  in  little 
bundles,  of  about  a  quarter  hundred  each,  witfi  bass,  if  ycm 
can  get  it,  or  tape ;  string  cuts  them  to  pieces :  Cut  off  the 
stalks  at  the  bottom,  that  they  may  be  all  of  a  leng^th,  leaving 
only  just  enough  to  serve  as  a  handle  for  the  green  part ;  when 
they  are  tender  at  the  stalk,  wfaidi  wHl  be  from  twentj  to 
thirty  minutes,  they  are  done  enough.  Great  care  must  be 
taken  to  watch  the  eiiict  time  of  tbeir  beooming  tender ;  take 
ihem  up  jpst  at  that  iuataoty  and  they  will  have  their  true 
flavour  and  colour ;  a  minute  or  two  more  boiling  destroys  botb« 

While  the  asparagus  is  boiling,  toast  a  round  of  a  quartern 
loaf,  about  half  an  inch  thick,  brown  it  delicately  on  both 
sides,  dip  it  lightly  in  the  liquor  .the  asparagus  was  boiled  in, 
and  lay  it  in  the  middle  of  a  dish :  melt  some  butter,  then  lay 
In  the  asparagus  upon  the  toast,  which  must  project  beyond 
the  asparagu^,  that  the  company  may  see  there  is  a  toast. 

Pour  no  butter  over  them,  but  send  some  up  in  a  boat,  or 
[serve  with  white  sauce. 

Asparagus  Peas. 

■  The  be9t.  method  of  preparing  what  are  called  asparagus 
,peas  is  as  follows.  Scrape  and  cut  some  of  the  small  or  sprue 
^ssparagus,  as  far  as  the  green  part  extends  from  the  heads,  into 
bits  the  size  of  peas.  Put  a  pint  of  these  asparagus  peas  in  a 
'stew-pan  to  a  little  boiling  water  and  salt;  and,  when  nearly 
done,  strain  off  the  liquor,  boil  it  down  till  reduced  to  less  than 
half  a  pint,  and  add  about  two  ounces  of  fresh  butter,  a  small 
quantity  of  powdered  loaf  sugar,  and  flour  and  milk  to  len- 
der  it  of  a  proper  consistence.  Make  toasts  of  French  bread 
well  buttered,  put  them  at  the  bottom  of  the  dish,  and  pout 
in  the  aspajngus  peas  well  mixed  with  the  sauce. 


TEOETABUS.  AM 

SiuKak. 

The  best  6ea  kale  is  that  whidi  grows  wild  in  the  coaise 
sand  on  the  sea  coast;  and  which^  in  some  parts  of  tfaecountry, 
the  labouring  poor  assist  tQ  blei^ch^  by  hoeing  up  the  sand 
round  the  plants,  and  cutting  them,  when  thus  improved,  for 
sale.  The  ste  kale  is  tied  up  in  bundles  like  asparagus,  and 
cxMnmonly  dressed  in  the  same  manner ;  being  served  up  placed 
on  a  Coast  at  the  bottom  of  the  di^,  with  a  litde  melted  hotter 
or  ridi  gravy  poured  over.  Sea  kale  being  a  fashionable  vege« 
table,  has  become  an  object  of  inland  horticulture,  though  it 
Beem*  to  require  both  sea  air  and  sea  soil. 

Cauliflower. 

Qhoose  those  that  are  close  and  .white,  and  of  the  middle 
me ;  tjcirn  off  the  ou(sid^  leavep,  cut  the  stalk  o^*  flat  at  thQ 
bottom^  let  them  lie  in  salt  and  water  an  hour  befoije  yo.u  bpil 
Aero. 

Pui  them  into  boiling  w^ter  with  a  l^andful  of  aalt  in  i% 
akim  id  well,  and  let  it  boil  slowly  till  done,  which  a  small  pne 
will  .be  ill  fiftepn»  a  lai^e  '^ne  in  about  twenty  minutes.  Take 
it  up  the  mp^ent  it  is  epojagh;  a  minute  or  two  longer  boil- 
jngwiUfpoilit. 

Cold  cauliflowers,  and  French  beans^  c^rrpjts  and  ti^rnips, 
^iled  ao  as  tp.  eat  father  crisp,  are  sometimes  dressed  as  a  salad. 

Set  a  pan  of  .elean  cold  .wader  on  the  table,  and«  sauce-pait 
en  Mie  fire  with  plenty  of  water,  and  a  handfiil  of  salt  la  it. 

Broooli  is  prepared  by«tripping  off  <ail  ^  side  shoots, 
leaving  the  top ;  peel  off  the  skin  of  the  stalk  with  a  knife, 
cut  it  dose  off  at  the  bqttoiD,  and  put  it  into  the  pan  /o(  cM 
water.  When- the  wnter  in  the  stew.pan  boils,  and  the  broooli 
is  I'eady,  put  it  in,  let  it  boil  briskly  till  the  stalks  feel  tender, 
from  ten  to  twenty  minutes ;  take  it  up  with  a  slice,  that  you 
may  not  break  it  ;^let  k  drun,  and  serve  vp. 

If  some  4f  thie  heads  of  brocoli  are  much  bigjger  than  the 
otfaen,  put  thena  on  to  boil  first,  so  that  the^  may  ^et  all  4ope 
tpgether. 


966  DOMESTIC  COOKBRT* 

It  makes  a  nice  Bupper  diah  served  upon  a  toaat^  like 
aqraragus.  It  is  a  very  delicate  vegetable,  and  you  must  take 
it  up  the  moment  it  is  done,  and  send  it  to  table  hot. 

Advantages  of  baking  instead  of  boiling  Beet  Roots* 

The  beet-root  too  forcibly  intrudes  itself  on  the  improved 
sagacity  of  mankind  to  be  entirely  neglected,  as  a  source  oC 
cheap  and  salubrious  food.     In  speaking  of  the  beet-root  gene- 
lally,  the  red  beet-root  is  to  be  considered  as  alone  designa- 
ted; and  we  are  about  to  offer  a  few  hints  for  bringing  ita 
modest  and  humble  merits  into  a  little  more  deserved  esti« 
nation.     Every  observant  person  must  have  noticed,  that  slices 
of  raw  beet-root  are  commonly  sold  in  London  to  accompany 
salad;  which,  of  course,    serve  merely*  as  garnish,  without 
being  at  all  more  eatable  than  a  slice  of  undressed  carrot :  and 
though  it  is  true  enough  there  are  few  families  who  do  not  well 
know  that  beet-root  should  be  dressed  for  salad,  it  is,  by  many, 
considered  as  too  much  trouble  for  the  small  quantity  wanted, 
and  by  all  who  do  dress  it,  it  is  universally  boiled.     The  rich 
saccharine  juice  of  the  beet-root  is  thus,  in  a  great  degree, 
lost,  and  the  root  itself  rendered,  at  once,  less  nutritious  by  the 
adventitious  watery  weakness  which  it  is  made  to  imbibe,  aa 
well  as  by  parting  with  the  native  gelatinous  syrup,  of  which 
it  is  thus  forcibly  deprived.     It  is,  therefore,  most  strongly 
recommended  to  adopt  the  mode  of  baking  beet-roots,  instead 
of  boihng  them,  for  general  use ;  when  they  will,  unquestion* 
ably,  be  found  to  afford  a  very  delicious  ftnd  most  wholesome 
jfood.    This  is  not  offered  as  an  untried  novelty :  beet-roots  are 
very  universally  baked  all  over  the  continent  of  Europe ;  and, 
in  Italy  particularly,  they  are  carried  about,  warm  from  the 
oven,  twice  a  day,  like  hot  loaves,  &c.  in  London.    They  are 
there  purchased  by  all  ranks  of  people,  and  afford  to  many 
thousands,  with  bread  and  a  little  salt  only,  a  very  satis&ctorjr 
meal. 

To  Boil  Red  Beet  Roots. 
In  boiling  beet-roots,  it  is  to  be  observed ;  they  are  dress- 
ed in  the  same  wayas  parsnips,  only  neither  scraped  nor  cut 
till  after  they  are  boiled :  they  will  take  from  an  hour  and  a  half 
to  three  hours  in  boiliDg»  according  to  their  size,— to  be  sent  to 


VBOSTAK.BS.  907 

itltAt  with  ndt  tA,  boiled  beef,  &c.  When  youngs  large,  and 
jsiqr,  it  is  a  very  good  variety,  an  excellent  garnish,  and  easily 
oonverted  into  a  very  cheap  and  pleasant  pickle. 

Parsnips  are  to  be  cooked  jast  in  the  same  manner  as  eir- 
rots;  they  require  more  or  less  time  according  to  their  sis^ 
therefiire  match  them  in  siae,  and  you  must  try  them,  by 
thrusting  a  fork  into  them  as  they  are  in  the  waters  when  that 
goeseasSy  through,  they  are  done  enough ;  boil  them  from  an 
hour  to  two  hours,  according  to  their  siae  and  freshness. 

Fumips  are  sometimes  sent  up  mashed  in  the  same  way  tm 
tamips,  and  some  cooks  quarter  them  before  they  boil  them, 

« 

Carrots* 

Let  them  be  well  washed  and  brushed,  not  scraped;  av 
hour  is  enough  for  young  spring  csrrots;  grown  csrrots  must 
be  cot  in  half,  and  will  take  from  an  hour  and  a  half  to  two 
hours  and  a  half.  When  done,  rub  off  the  peels  with  a  dean 
coarse  doth,  and  slice  them  in  two  or  four,  according  to  their 
aise.  The  best  way  to  try  if  they  are  done  enough,  is  to 
pierce  them  with  a  fork. 

Many  people  are  food  of  cold  carrot  with  cold  beef. 

T\irmp$. 

Fed  off  half  an  in^  of  ^  stringy  outside ;  full-grown 
turnips  will  take  about  an  hour  and  a  half  gentle  boiling ;  if 
you  slice  them,  which  most  people  do,  they  will  be  done 
sooner ;  try  them  with  a  fork,— when  tender  take  them  up,  and 
lay  them  on  a  sieve  till  the  water  is  thoroughly  drained  from 
them :  send  them  up  whole ;  do  not  slice  them. 

To  Teiy  young  turnips  leave  about  two  inches  of  the  green 
Cop. 

To  mash  1\imip$. 

When  they  are  boiled  quite  tender,  squeeze  them  as  diy 
as  possible  between  two  trendiers,  put  them  into  a  sauce- pan, 
mash  them  with  a  wooden  spoon,  and  rub  them  through  a 
colander ;  add  a  little  bit  of  butter,  keep  stirring  them  tiU  the 


dOd  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

butt^  is  mdted  and  well  mixed  with  theiii»  and  dbey  aie  read^ 
for  table. 


T^mtp  Tops, 

Turnip  tops  are  the  shoots  which  grow  out  (in  the  spring) 
6F  the  old  turnip  roots.  Pat  them  into  odd  water  an  tiour 
before  they  are  dressed ;  the  more  water  the^  are  boiled  in,  the 
better  they  will  look ;— »if  boiled  in  a  small  quantity  of  water, 
they  will  taste  Utter; — when  the  water  boils^  put  in  a  smaH 
faandftil  of  salt^  and  then  your  vegetables ;  if  frefih  and  yonng> 
they  will  be  done  in  abont  twenty  minutes;  drain  them  on  th^ 
bade  of  a  sieve. 

To  boil  Beans. 

It  is  best  not  to  shell  beans  tiD  just  before  they  are  wanted 
for  dressing.  They  require  boiling  in  a  good  deal  of  water, 
and  must  be  put  in  when  it  boils,  with  some  salt,  and  a  bunch 
of  parsley.  Boil  them  up  directly,  and  keep  them  boiling  very 
quick.  They  must  be  done  extremely  well.  To  taste  dne  is 
the  surest  way  of  knowing  when  they  are  done  enough.  DrAih 
them  off,  garnish  the  dish  with  the  parsley  chopped,  and  serve 
them  up  with  a  tureen  of  melted  butter. 

French  Beans. 

Cut  off  the  stalk  end  first,  and  then  turn  to  the  point  and 
atrip  off  the  strings.  If  not  quite  Greah,  have  a  bowl  of  spring 
water,  with  a  little  salt  dissolved  in  it,  standing  before  you, 
and  as  the  beans  are  cleaned  and  stringed,  throw  them  in : — 
when  all  are  done,  put  them  on  the  fire,  in  boiling  water,  with 
some  salt  in  it;  when  they  have  boiled  fifteen  or  twenty 
minutes,  take  one  out  and  taste  it ;  as  soon  as  they  are  tender, 
take  them  up,  throw  them  in  a  colander  or  sifeve  to  drain«  To 
send  up  the  beans  whole  is  much  the  best  method  when  they 
are  thus  young,  and  their  delicate  flavour  and  colour  are  much 
better  preserved.  When  a  little  more  grown,  they  must  be  cut 
across  in  two,  after  stringing ;  and  for  common  tables,  they  are 
split,  and  divided  across ;  but  those  who  are  nice,  never  have 
them  at  such  a  growth  as  to  require  splitting.  When  they  are 
iarg^,  thf  y  look  very  pretty  cut  into  lozenges. 


VBOBTABLES.  {169 

« 

4_  _  4 

Green  Pea$. 

*  Young  gveen  peas,  well  drtpaed^  are  one  of  tlM  iaopt  deH- 
«ieu9  delicacies  of  the  vegetable  kingdom.  Tb^  muit  be 
y  oang ;  it  is  equally  indispensable  that  tl^  be  fresh  galherecl^ 
and  ocN^ed  as  soon  as  they  are  shelled^  for  they  socm  lose  both 
their  colour  and  sweetness. 

If  yoo  wish  to  ftast  upon  peas  in  perfieedoti^  yod  most  have 
them  gatiiered  the  same  day  they  are  dressed,  and  put  0a  to 
boil  widiih  half  an  boor  after  they  are  shelled.  Pass  tfate 
diroogh  a  riddle^  t •  f «  a  eoarse  sieve,  wtnA  is  made  for  the  pur- 
pose ai  sepfliratin^  them.  This  precaution  is  necessary,  lor  large 
akid  smaU  peas  cannot  be  boiled  togeflier,  as  the  former  will 
tske  more  time  than  the  latter. 

For  a  peck  of  peas,  set*  oh  a  sauce-pan  with  a  gallon  of 
#ater  in  it ;  when  itlieils,  put  in  your  peas  with  a  table-sptNm- 
fkii  of  salt;  skim  it  well,  keep  them  boiUng  quick  fram  twenty 
to  thirty  oiinntes,  aeooordii^  to  their  age  and  siae.  The  best  way 
to  judge  of  ibmx  being  done  enough,  and  indeed  the  only  Way 
lo  make  sore  of  cooking  them  to,  and  not  beyond  tlie  point  of 
perfadon  ;  or,  as  p^»»c^iters  say,  'of  boiling  them  to  a  bubble/ 
is  16  tAe  them  imt  witfi  a  spoon,  and  taste  them.  When  they 
aee^nongh,  drain  them  on  a  hair  sieve.  If  yon  like  them  but- 
tered, put  them  inlioa  pie  dirii,  divide  some  butter  into  small 
bits,  aaid  lay  dliem  on  the  peas;  put  another  dish  over  them, 
imd  turh  theth  over  and  over;  .this  iHll  melt  dm  butter  duidugli 
diem.  But  as  all.people  do  not  like  buttered  pe&%  you  had 
better  send  them  to  table  plain,  as  th^  eome  oujt  of  the  sauce- 
pim,  widi  melted  butter,  in  a  saiice  tureen.  It  is  usuid  to  boil 
some  mint  with  the  peas ;  but  if  you  wish  to  garnish  die  peaa 
with  mint,  boil  a  fbw  sprigs  in  asanee-pan  by  tliemeelvea. 

A  peck  of  young  peas  will  not  yield  nNnre  tlwn  eneligh  fbr 
a  couple  of  hearty  pea-eaters,^iwhen  the  pods  are  llaU,  it  may 
serve  for  threew 

Never  think  of  purchasing  peas  ready  shelled,  for  the 
cogent  reasons  ass^ned  in  the  first  part  of  this  rectipt. 

To  stew  Green  Peas. 

To  a  quart  of  peas  add  a  qaart  of  gravy,  two  or.  three 
lumps  of  sugar,  some  pepper  and  salt.    Stew  them  gendy  fill 
14  SB 


370  DOMESTIC  COOKKRT. 

the  peas  are  quite  tender;  and  if  the  gravy  is  not  sufficiently 
thick^  add  a  piece  of  butter  rolled  in  flour. 
*     If  the  peas  are  old,  h^lf  boil  them  first  in  hard  Wateif 
before  the j  are  stewed.    Whether  for  young  or  old  peas,  tkie 
gravy  must  be  strong. 

i  •  * 

To  stew  Green  Pea$  a  mild  way. 
Put  a  pint  of  young  peas  into  a  stew-pan. '  with  very  little 
water,  and  two  young  lettuces^  cut  small.  Stew  them  gently 
till  the  peas  are  tender,  dien  add  four  spoonfuls  of  cream,  « 
lump  of  sugar,  and  the  yolks  of  two  eggs.  Stir  the  whole 
together  oyer  the  fice  for. a  short. time,  but  do  not  allow  it  to 
boil.    A  little  salt  should  be  added  before  serving  up  the  stew. 

•  Cuamber  stewed. 

Peel  and  cut  cucumbers  in  quarters,  take  out  the  seeds,  and 
lay  them  on  a  cloth  to  drain  off  the  water:  when  they  are  'dry, 
flour  and  fry  them  in  fresh  butter  ;  let  the  butter  be  quite  hot 
before  you  put  in  the  cucumbers ;  fry  them  till  they  are  brown, 
Aen  take  them  out  with  an  egg  slice,  imd  lay  them  on  a  sieve 
to  drain  the  fat  from  them:  (some  cooks  fry  sliced  onions  or 
some  small  button  onions  with  them  till  th^  are  a  delicate  light 
brown  colour,  drain  them  from  the  fat,  and)  then  put  them 
into  a  8tew*pan,  with  as  much  gravy  as  will  cover  them ;  stew 
alowly  till  they  are  tender ;  take  out  the  cucumbers  with  a  slice, 
thicken  the  gravy  with  flour  and  butter,  give  it  a  boil  up, 
season  it  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  put  in  the  cucudibers ;  as 
soon  as  diey  are  warm,  they  are  ready. 

The  above  rubbed  through  a  tammis  or  fine  sieve,  will  be 
entitled  to  be  called  a  cuewnber  sauce.  This  is  a  very  favourite 
sauce  with  lamb  or  mutton  cutlets,  stewed  rump  steaks,  &c. 
When  made  for  the  latter,  a  third  part  of  sliced  onion  is  some- 
times fried  with  the  cucumber. 

.  Artiekokes. 

Soak  them  in  cold  water,  wash  them  well,  then  put  them 
into  plenty  of  boiling  water,  with  a  handful  of  salt,  and  let  them* 
boil  gently  till  they  are  tender,  which  will  take  an  hoartuid  a 
half,  or  two  hours;  the  surest  way  to  know  when  they  tre 
done  enough,  is  to  draw  eut  a  l^f ;  trim  them  end  drain  them 


VEGETABLES.  371 

«ti  a  sieve ;  and  send  up  melted  butter  with  them,  which  aome 
put  into  small  cups,  so  that  each  guest  may  have  one. 

Stewed  Onions. 

The  large  Portugal  onions  are  the  best ;  take  off  the  top 
soats  of  half  a  dozen  of  these,  » taking  care  not  to  cot  off  the 
tops  or  tails  too  near,  or  the  onions  will  go  to  pieces ;)  and  put 
them  into  a.  stew-pan  broad  enough  to  hold  them,  without  lay- 
ing them  atop  ot  one  another,  and  just  cover  them  with  good 
broth. 

Put  them  over  a  slow  fire,  and  let  them  simmer  about  two 
hours :  when  you  dish  them,  turn  them  upside  down,  and  pour 
the  sauce  over. 

To  stew  Sorrel  for  Frieandeau  and  roast  Meat. 

Wash  the  sorrel ;  and  put  it  into  a  silver  vessel,  or  stone 
jar,  with  no  more  water  than  hangs  to  the  leaves.  Simmer  it 
as  slow  as  you  can ;  and  when  done  enough,  put  a  bit  of  butter, 
and  beat  it  welL 

Fryinf^  Herbs,  as  dressed  in  Staffordshire. 

Clean  and  drain  a  good  quantity  of  spinage  leaves,  two 
large  handfols  of  parsley,  and  a  handful  of  green  onions. 
Chop  the  parsley  and  onions,  and  sprinkle  them  among  the 
spinage.  Set  them  all  on  to  stew  with  some  salt,  and  a  bit  of 
batter  the  size  of  a  walnut :  shake  the  pan  when  it  begins  to 
grow  warm,  and  let  it  be  closely  covered  over  a  slow  stove  till 
done  enough.  It  is  served  with  slices  of  broiled  calves^  liver, 
tmall  rashers  of  bacon,  and  ^gs  fried ;  the  latter  on  the  herbs^ 
•the  other  in  a  separate  dish. 

To  preserve  several  Vegetables  to  eat  in  the  Winter. 

For  French  beans,  pick  them  yoang,  and  throw  into  a  little 
wooden  keg  a  layer  of  them  three  inches  deep ;  then  sprinkle  them 
with  salt,  put  another  layer  of  beans,  and  do  the  same  as  high  as 
yOQ  think  proper,  alternately  with  salt,  but  not  too  much  of 
this.  Lay  over  thcfta  a  plate,  or  cover  of  wood,  that  will  go 
into  the  keg,  and  put  a.  heavy  stone  on  it.  A  pickle  wilf  rise 
from  the  beans  and  salt    If  they  are  too  salt,  the  Making  and 


372  DOMESTIC  CODKfiRT. 

boiling  wil  no^  be  sufficient  to  make  them  pleasant  to  the  taft^ 
When  they  are  to  be  eaten,  cat,  soak,  and  boil  them  as  if  freab. 

Carrots,  Parsnepa,  and  Beet-roots,  should  be  kept  in 
layers  of  dry  sand  for  winter  use;  and  neither  they  nor 
potatoes  should  be  cleared  from  the  earth.  Potatoes  should  be 
carefully  kept  from  frost. 

Sfore-onions  keep  best  hung  up  in  a  dry  cold  room. 

Artichoke  bottoms,  slowly  dried,  should  be  kept  in  paper 
bags;  and  truffles,  moreb,  lemon-peel,  &c.  in  a  dry  place^ 
ticketed. 

Small  close  cabbages,  laid  on  a  stone  floor  before  the  frost 
sets  in,  will  blanch  and  be  very  fine,  after  many  weeks'  keeping. 

To  dry  Sweet  and  Savowy  Herbs. 

All  Yegetables  ar^  in  the  highest  sU^te  of  perfection,  and 
fullest  of  juice  and  flavour,  just  before  they  begin  to  flower: 
the  first  and  last  crop  have  neither  the  fine  flavour  nor  the  per- 
fume of  those  which  are  gathered  in  the  height  of  the  season; 
that  is,  when  the  greater  part  of  the  crop  of  each  species  is  ripe. 

Take  care  they  are  gathered  on  a  dry  day,  by  which  means 
they  will  have  a  better  colour  when  dried.    Cleanse  your  herbs 
well  from  dirt  and  dust,  cut  off  the  roots,  separate  the  bunches 
into  smaller  ones,  and  dry  them  by  the  beat  of  a  stove,  or  in  a 
Dutch  oven  before  a  common  fire,  in  such  quantities  at  a  time, 
%h|it  the  process  may  be  speedily  finished,  t.e.  kill 'em  quick, 
says  a  great  botanist.    By  this  means  their  flavour  will  be  best 
preserved.    There  can  be  no  doubt  of  the  propriety  of  drying 
herbs,  &c.  hastily,  by  the  aid  of  artificial  heat  rather  than  by 
the  heat  of  the  sun.    In  the  application  of  artificial  heat,  the 
only  caution  requisite  is  to  avoid  burning ;  and  of  this,  a  suf- 
ficient test  is  afforded  by  the  preservation  of  the  colour.     The 
common  custom  is,  when  they  are  perfectly  dried,  to  put  them 
into  paper  bags,  and  lay  them  on  a  dielf  in  the  kitchen, 
exposed  ta  all  the  fumes,  steam,  and  smoke,  ttc  thus  they 
soon  lose  their  flavour.     The  beat  way  to  preserve  the  flavour 
of  aromatic  plants,  is  to  pick  off  the.  leaves  as  soon  as  they  are 
dried,  and  to  pound  them  and  put  them  through  a  hair  sieve, 
and  keep  them  in  well  stopped  bottles. 

Basil  is  in  the  best  state  for  drying  firom  the  middle  of 
Augusi,  i|n4  three  wed(s  after.  ' 


SALADS.  ^73 

fnotted  M^wgm,  fifoni  tbe  l)e{inniQg  of  July,  ||^d 
4armg  the  same. 

•  •  •  ' 

Winter  and  Summer  S^v^>  t^<^  latter  end  of  July,  ^4 
th?pfigbout  ^uguat. 

Tkjfme,  Ltmon  Thymt^  and  Oning^  Thjfm,  during  Jupe 
and  July. 

3Jini,  lat^  end  pf  June,  and  during  July, 

'^<V^j  Augii8t  and  Septeaiber, 

Tamtget^,  juqe,  July,  and  August. 

Chervil^  Mny,  June,  ai>dJu]y. 

Burnett  June,  4u|y,  ^nd  Aufa^t. 

Po^ffty,  Fennel^  Elder  Flowern»  wd  Orange  floH^frs^ 
during  Mi|y,  June,  and  July. 

He^bs  nicely  drie^  i^e  a  very  acceptable  substitute  whei^ 
^resb  one^  cannot  be  gpt,— but,  however  carefully  dried^  the 
^▼ouiT  and  fragrance  of  the  fresh  herbs  is  incomparably  finer^ 


SALADS. 

Obiervation9  on  Sata^, 

Salads  are  proper  to  be  eaten  at  all  times  and  seasons  of  the 
year^  and  ore  particularly  to  be  recommended  from  the  begin- 
ning of  February  to  the  middle  or  end  of  June.  They  are  in 
greater  perfection^  aiid  cpnseqvieptly  more  powerful,  during 
thb  period  than  at  other  se^ons,  in  cleansing,  opening  obstruc- 
tions, and  sweetening  and  purifying  the  blood,  fox  the  fre« 
quent^  eating  of  herbs  prevents  that  pernicious  and  almost 
general  disease  the  scurvy,  apd  aU  windy  humours  which  offend 
the  stomach. 

Then  again  from  the  mid<)le  of  September  till  December, 
and  indeed  all  the  winter,  if  the  weather  be  mild  ^nd  open,  all 
green  l^erbs  are  welcome  to  the  stom^,  and  very  wbol^sopae. 
For  though  herbs  ][i^ve  not  so  much  vigour,  nor.  are  so  opening 
and  cleaiifW£k  ^  ^^  winter  as  ia  tl^^  spring,  yet  all  sucl^ 
mAf!{  ^  8F9^«  ^^  contwue  fresh  and  (fTecn»  retaia  also  their 


374  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

tnie  natural  virtues  and  qualities ;  and  being  eaten  as  salad?, 
and  seasoned  as  they  ouj^ht,  have  in  a  degree  the  same 
operations  as  at  other  seasons  of  the  year. 

It  is  a  necessary  consequence  of  cold  weather,  that  the  heat 
of  the  body  is  driven  more  inward  than  in  warm  weather^  as 
the  cold  of  the  atmosphere  repels  it  from  the  surface.     Hence 
arises  a  great  iippttite  for  solid^   strong,   fat,  and  succulent 
foods,  and  strong  drinks,  which,  where  discretion,  order^  and 
temperance  are  wanting,  lays  the  foundation  for  diseases  that 
commonly  show  themselves  in  the  summer  following.      The 
frequent  eating  of  herbs  and  sahids  in  the  winter  will,  in  a  great 
measure,  prevent  these  ill  effects;  for  notwithstanding  a  preju- 
dice that  is  too  common  against  eating  herbs  in  the  winter^  a 
salad  ^ell  ordered  and  seasoned,  if  the  weather  prove  mild  and 
open,  is  as  exhilarating,  (being  eaten  only  with   good    well 
made  bread)  and  will  warm  the  stomach  as  much,  as  two  or 
three  glasses  of  wine,  and  is  far  more  pleasant  and  natural. 
The  one  produces  an  effect  in  unison  with  all  the  operations  of 
the  human  frame,  which  thus  go  on  in  their  regular  course ; 
the  other  stimulates  them  for  the  moment  to  a  hurried  unnatu- 
ral action,  which  is  soon  over,  and  succeeded  by  cold  languor. 
There  is  a  much  greater  excellency  in  all   green  herbs  in  the 
winter  than  most  people  imagine.     They  are  particularly  salu-i 
tary  for  old  persons,  and  such  as  are  subject  to  stoppages  or 
shortness  of  breath,  who,  instead  of  an  onion,  may  use  a  clove 
of  garlic  in  their  salads,  which  is  one  of  the  best  wa^s  of  eat- 
ing it,  and  it  will  open,  cheer,  and  warm  the  stomach,  which 
gives  a  general' animation  to  the  whole  system. 

Onions  both  young  and  full  grown,  shalots,  garlic,  and 
chives,  are  all  used  as  seasonings  to  salads ;  and  red  beet*root 
boiled,  and  cold,  is  often  sliced  into  them. 

Salad  is  a  very  compound  dish  with  our  neighbours  th6 
French,  who  always  add  to  their  salad  mixtures,  black  pepper, 
and  sometimes  savoury  spices.  The  Italians  mince  the  white 
meat  of  chickens  into  this  sauce  The  Dutch,  cold  boiled  tur- 
bot,  or  lobster ;  or  add  to  it  a  spoonful  of  grated  Parmesan  or 
old  Cheshire.*  cheese,  or  mince  very  fine  a  little  tarragon,  or 
chervil,  bumet,  or  young  onion,  celery,  or  pickled  gherkins, 
&c.  Joan  Cromwell's  grand  salad  was  composed  of  equal 
parts  of  almonds,  raisins^  capers^  pickled  cucumbers,  shrimps, 
and  boiled  turnips. 


SALADS.  375 

-  The  wholesomest  way  of  eating  salads  is  with  bread  only, 
in  preference  to  either  bread  and  butter,  bread  and  cheese,  or 
bread  and  meat,  though  any  of  these  may  be  eaten  with  it, 
'wrhen  the  salad  is  seasoned  only  with  salt  and  vinegar. 

fialads  of  all  kinds  should  be  very  fresh,  or,  if  not  to  be 
procared  thua,  should  be  well  refreshed  in  cold  spring  water. 

They  should  be  very  carefully  washed  and  picked,  and 
drained  quite  dry  in  a  clean  cloth. 

In  dressing  small  herbs,  or  lettuce,  it  is  best  to  arrange  then^ 
properly  picked  and  cut,  in  the  salad  dish ;  then  to  mix  the 
aauce  in  something  else,  and  pour  it  to  the  salad  down  the 
side  of  the  dish,  so  as  to  let  it  run  to  the  bottom,  and  not  to 
stir  it  up  till  used  at  table.  .  This  preserves  the  crispnesa  of  the 
salad. 

With  celery  and  endive  the  sauce  should  be  poured  upon 
them,  and  the  whole  well  stirred  together  to  mix  it  equally. 

Lettuce,  endive,  and  celery,  may  be  eaten  with  salt  only ; 
and  if  well  chewed,  which  all  salads  should  be,  often  agree 
better  than  when  mixed  with  seasonings. 

If  mustard  in  salad  sauces  occasions  sickness,  or  otherwise 
disagrees,  Cayenne  pepper  will  often  prove  an  excellent  sub* 
stitute  for  it. 

Salad  Mixture. 

If  the  herbs  be  young,— fresh  gathered, — trimmed  neatly, 
and  drained  dry,  and  the  aauce  maker  ponders  patiently  over 
the  following  directions,  he  cannot  fail  obtaining  the  fame  of 
being  a  very  accomplished  salad-dresser. 

Boil  a  couple  of  eggs  for  twelve  minutes,  and  put  them  in 
a  basin  of  cold  water  for  a  few  minutes;  the  yolks  must  be 
quite  cold  and  hard,  or  they  will  not  incorporate  with  the  in* 
gredients.  Rub  them  through  a  sieve  with  a  wooden  spoon^ 
and  mix  them  with  a  table-spoonful  of  water,  or  fine  double 
cream ;  then  add  two  table-spoonfuls  of  oil  or  melted  butter ; 
when  these  are  well  mixed,  add  by  degrees  a  tea-spoonful  of 
jalt,  or  powdered  lump  sugar,  and  the  same  of  made  mustard; 
when  these  are  smoothly  united,  add  very  gradually  three 
table-spoonfuls  of  vinegar,  rub  it  with  the  other  ingredients 
till  thoroughly  incorporated  with  them ;  cut  up  the  white  of 
the  egg,  and  garnish  the  top  of  the  salad  with  it.    Let  the 


I 


37^  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

sauc^  remain  at  th^  bottbm  of  the  b'owl^  sXki  do  hb't  stir  tip  the 
stUtA  till  it  Id  tb  hk  eaten.  We  recomtnend  the  eaters  to  be 
i^indfiA  df  the  duty  of  madtidttiofi^^ without  the  due  perform- 
ance of  which^  all  tttid^es6ed  vegetables  are  troubleaomd  tosd^ 
pany  fbr  the  pfindpd  visd^'ra,  a^d  some  are  ereh  dafigefously 
indlg^tibk. 

Bailid  Salad. 

This  is  best  compounded  of  boiled  or  baked  onions,  (iT 
Portugal  the  bettdr^)  some  baked,  beet-root,  cauliflower  or  bro- 
coil,  and  boiled  celery  and  French  beans,  or  any  of  these 
articles,  with  the  common  salad  dressing ;  added  to  this»  to 
give  it  an  ^ticing  appearance,  and  to  give  some  of  the  orisp- 
ness  and  freshness  so  pleasant  in  salad,  a  small  quantity  of  raw 
endive,  or  lettuce  and  chervil,  or  bumet,  strewed  on  the  top  : 
this  is  by  far  more  wholesome  than  the  raw  salad,  and  is  much 
^aten  when  put  on  the  table. 

'the  above  sauce  is  equally  good  with  cold  meat,  cold  ^sh, 
or  for  cucumbers,  celory,  radishes,  &c.  and  all  the  other  vege« 
tables  that  are  sent  to  table  undressed.  To  the  above,  a  little 
IQinced  onion  is  generally  an  acceptable  addition. 

Jjobstar  Sahdi. 

Prepare  a  salad  in  the  usual  manner,  then  diop  the  red 
part  of  a  lobster  and  mix  with  it^  the  odour  of  whieh  pie- 
f«ents  a  striking  contrast  to  the  vegetables. 

Substitute  for  Oil  in  Salads. 

Melt  good  butter  thick,  ssoA  pour  it  upon  the  aabd,  in  <he 
same  proportion  as  oil.  Or  ttte  somis  swe^  tfatdL  creiBtai  in  the 
same  manner  and  proportion. 

Nothing  is  better  for  ther  purpose  of  seivtoniiig  sakids  IhaB 
oil ;  but  as  some  persons  do  noc  like  it,  and  Hxviy  dfaers  can- 
not get  it,  especially  at  this  Cini6,  either  of  tlie  above  are  a  vi^y 
good  substitute  for  it^  and  botii  eat  and  Idbk  v^ell  m  aalaOs. 
The  cream  is  the  most  to  be  reeommekided  of  the  two. 


FASTHT  Alt  D  COITFSCTION ARY.  «T7 


PASTRY  AND  CONFECTIONARY. 


ObsertationB  on  Pastry  and  ConfetHMiny* 

In  the  first  pl«ce  it  will  be  necessary  toobsenre^  thjit  things 
used  for  pastl'y  or  cakes  should  not  be  used  for  any  other  pur-i 
pose.  Your  flour  for  puff  paste  or  cakes  must  be  carefuUy 
db'ied  before  the  fire  previous  to  being  used,  for  if  damp,  it 
wiU  make  the  paste  heavy.  Receipts  for  making  various  sorts 
€i£  pastes  and  crusts  are  given  at  the  end  of  these  observations. 

In  using  butter  for  puff  paste,  you  should  take  the  greatest 
care  to  previously  work  it  well  on  the  paste-bosrd  or  slab,  to  get 
OHt  all  the  water  and  butter-milk,  which  very  often  remains  in» 
When  yon  hav6  worked  it  well  with  a  clean  knife,  dab  it  over 
with  a  soft  doA,  and  it  is  then  ready  to  lay  on  your  paste :  da 
not  make  your  paste  over  stiff  before  you  put  in  your  butter. 

For  those  who  do  not  understand  making  puff  paste,  it  is 
by  ftx  the  best  way  to  work  the  butter  in  at  two  separate  times* 
Divide  it  in  half-*-«nd  break  ihe  half  in  little  bits,  and  cover 
your  paste  all  over;  dredge  it  lightly  with'  flour — then  fold 
it  over  each  side  and  ends,  roll  it  out  quite  thin,  and  then  put 
in  the  rest  of  the  butter'— ifold  it,  and  roll  it  ilgain.  Remem- 
ber always  to  roll  puff  paste  firoin  you.  The  best  made  paste, 
if  not  properly  baked,  will  not  do  the  cook  any  cfedit.         . 

The  wholesomest  manner  of  making  fruit  pies  is  thus :  make 
some  good  wheaten  flour  into  a  paiste,  with  a  little  leaven  or 
yeiast^  in  the  manner  of  bread,  and  milk,  or  milk  and  water 
msde  as  warm^  as  new  mUk.  Let  the  apples,  or  other  £ruit,  be 
fteU  rip^,  and  mix  no  other  ingredient  with  them,  unless  it  is  a 
fe#  cataway  seeds,  Which  are  very  good,  and  agreeable  to  moat 
stomachs.  The  yolk  of  an  ef^g  may  be  added  in  making  the 
paste. 

.The  best  manner  of  makidg  up  firults  in  paste  is  thst  of 

pasties,  or,  as  dicy  are  sometimes  called,  turnovers.    Which*- 

ever  way  they  are  made  they  should  not  be  baked  in  a  close 

oten,  bat  with  the  door  open,  or  al  le«9t  qot  so  close  but  that 

14  3c  . 


37d  .  DOMESTIC  COOKEltTi 

some  air  may  pass^  to  preserve  them  from  the  bad  effects  that 
always  ensue  when  the  air  is  quite  exdaded  in  cookery. 

We  now  shall  speak  of  tarts  and  pmffs  of  the  smaller  kin<l« 
If  you  make  nse  of  tin  patties  to  bake  in,  butter  them,  atid. 
put  a  little  crust  all  over  them,  otherwise  you  cannot  take  them 
out :  but  if  you  bake  them  in  glass  or  china,  you  then  need 
use  only  ap  u{q^  crust,  as  you  will  not  then*  want  tOvtak#them 
out  when  you  send  them  to  table.     Lay  fine  su/par  at  the  bot-* 
torn,  then  your  cherries,  plants,  or  whatever  sort  you  may  want 
to  put  in  ihem,  and  put  sugar  at  the  top.    Then  put  on  your 
lid,  and  bake  them  in  a  slack  oven.    Mince  pies  must  be  baked 
in  tin  patties,  because  of  taking  them  out,  and  puff  paste  ia 
best  for  them.   Apples  and  pears,  intended  to  be  put  into  tart^ 
must  be  pared,  cUt  into  quarters,  and  cored.    Cut  the  quarters 
across  again,  set  them  on  a  sauce^n  with  as  much  water  as  will 
barely  cover  them,  and  let  them  simmer  on  a  slow  fire  just  till 
the  fruit  be  tender.  Put  a  good  piece  of  lemon  peel  into  the  water 
with  the  firuit,  and  then  have  your  patties  ready.  Lay  fine  sugar  at 
the  bottom,  then  your  fruit,  and  a  little  sugar  at  top.    Pour  over 
each  tart  a  tea-spoonful  of  lemon  juice,  and  three  tea-spoonfuls  of 
the  liquor  they  were  boiled  in;  then  put  on  your  lid,  and  bake 
them  in  a  slack  oveH.    Apricot  tarts  may  be  made  the  sam^ 
excepting  that  you  must  not  pat  in  any  lemon  juice.    When 
j^ou  make  tarts  of  preserved  fruits,  lay  in  yoor  ^uit,  and  put 
J   a  very  thin  crust  at  top.     Let  them  be  baked  but  a  little  while ; 
and  if  you  would  have  them  very  nice,  have  a  large  patty,  the 
size  of  your  intended  tart.    Make  your  sugar  crust,  roll  it  as 
thin  as  a  halfpenny,  then  butter  your  patty  and  cover  it.    Shape 
your  upper  CTast  on  a  hollow  thing  made  on  purpose,  the  shape 
of  your  patty,  and  mark  it  with  a  marking*  iron  £ot  that  pur- 
pose, in  what  shape  you  please,  that  it  may  be  hollow  and  opeu 
to  show  the  fruit  through  it.    Then  bake  your  crust  in  a  very 
alack  oven,  that  you  may  not  discolour  it,  and  have  .it  crisp* 
When  the  crust  is  cold,  very  carefully  take  it  out,  and  fill  it 
with  what  firuit  you  please.    Then  lay  on  the  lid,  and  yoor 
business  wilTbe  done. 

Tarts  that  are  iced  should  be  baked  fai  a  slow  oven,  or  the 
idng  will  become  brown  before  the  paste  is  properly  baked. 

Those  who  use  irdtt  ovens  do  not  always  succeed^  baking 
puff  paste,  Iruit  pies,  &c.     Puff  paste  is  often  spoiled  %f 


PASTRY  AND  CONFECTIOHTART.  379 

waking  it  after  fruit  pies,  in  an  iron  oven.  Tins  may  be  easily 
.avoided  by  putting  two  or  three  bricks  that  are  quite  even  into 
the  oven  before  it  is  first  set  to  get  hot.  This  will  not 
only  prevent  the  syrup  from  boiling  out  of  the  pies,  but 
also  prevent  a  very  disagreeable  smell  in  the  kitchen  and  house, 
'  smd  almost  answer  the  same  purpose  as  a  brick  oven. 

Before  you  begin  to  make  any  cake,  take  care  that  all  your 
ingredients  are  ready  to  your  hand.  Beat  up  your  eggs  wel^ 
said  then  do  not  leave  them  to  go  about  any  thing  else  tiD  your 
cake  is  finished,  as  the  eggs,  by  standing  unmixed,  will 
require  beating  again,  which  will  contribute  to  make  the  cake 
heavy.  If  batter  is  put  into  the  cake?,  be  sure  to  beat  it  to  a 
•fine  cream  before  sugar  is  added,  otherwise  it  will  require 
double  the  beating,  and  Met  all  will  not  answer  the  purpose 
-so  well.  Cakes  made  with  rice,  seeds;  or  plums,  are  besC 
baked  in  wooden  garths;  for  when  baked  either  in  pots  or  tins, 
the  outside  of  the  cakes  will  be  burned,  and  will  besides  be  so 
much  confined,  that  the  heat  cannot  penetrate  into  the  middle 
of  the  cake,  which  will  prevent  it  Irom  rising.  All  kinds  of 
cakes  must  be  baked  in  a  good  oven,  heated  according  to  the 
•eize  of  the  cake. 

The  greatest  eare  must  be  taken  in  the  making  of  euHard$ 
that  your  tossing-pan  is  well-tinned;  mnd  always  remember  to 
put  a  spoonful  of  water  into  your  pan,  to  prevent  your  ingre- 
'dients  sticking  to  the  bottom  of  it  Ckeesecakes  must  not  be 
made  long  before  they  are  put  into  the  oven,  particularly 
almond  or  lemon  cheesecakes,  as  standing  long  will  make  them 
grow  oily,  and  give  them  a  disagreeable  appearance.  They 
should  always  be  baked  in  ovens  of  a  moderate  heat;  for  if  the 
oven  be  too  hot,  it  will  bum  them,  and  spoil  their  beauty^ 
and  too  slack  an  oven  will  make  them  look  Mack  and  heavy« 
This  is  a  matter,  however,  for  which  no  precise  rules  can  be 
given,  and  can  be  learned  only  by  cautious  prance  and  the 
nicest  observations. 

Preserves,  if  not  too  rich,  moderately  eaten  with  bread  may 
be  occasionally  indulged  in  i  but  to  bake  them  in  tarts  carriea 
the  preparation  of  them  beyond  the  proper  extent.  In 
making  syrups  for  preserves,  take  care  to  pound  ytmr  sugar, 
and  let -it  dissolve  in  the  syrup  before  you  set  it  on  the 
fire,  as  it  will  make  the  scum  rise  well,  and  your  syrup  wiQ 


ffSO  DOMESTIC  CPPK^RX* 

be  of  a  better  colour.    It  b  «  gre^  fault  to  boil  any  kind  at 
pjrups  or  jellies  too  high^  as  it  loakep  them  dark  and  cloudy. 
"if^rpt  keep  green  sweetpieats  longer  in  the  first  syrup   th«ix 
directfifl,  as  it  will  sppil  tl^eir  jcolour ;  and  the  same  precauti<m 
uriU  be  necessary  in  the  preservipg  oranges  and  lemons.     When 
you  preserve  cherries^  damsons,  or  any\  other  sort  of  stone- 
fruits^  put  over  them  mutton  suet  rendered^  to  keep  out  the 
air  ;  for  if  any  ajr  gets  to  them>  it  will  give  them  a  sour  taste^ 
and  spoil  the  whole.    Wpt  s'^eetmeats  n^ust  be  kept  in  a  dry 
find  c(x>l  place ;  for  a  damp  place  will  mould  fhem^  and  a  hat 
place  will  d^»riye  thfm  of  dieir  virtue.     It  is  a  good  method 
;to  dip  writifig-paper  into  brfindy,  apd  lay  it  close  to  the 
meats.     They  should  b^  tied  w^ll  down  with  white 
4nd  two  folds  of  cap-paper,  to  keep/outthe  air,  as  nothlo|f  cau 
be  a  greater  fault  tb^  leaving  the  pots  open,  or  tying  thorn 
dovrn  carelessly. 

Before  you  proceed  to  drsf  and  cmdy  any  kind  of  fruity  let 
it  be  first  preserved,  and  so  dried  in  a  stove  or  before  the  fire^ 
that  all  the  syrup  n^y  be  totally  extracted.  When  you  hav^ 
boiled  y>onr  sugar  to  tl^e  candy. bright,  dip  in  the  fruit,  and  lay 
them  in  dishes  in  your  stove  to  dry;  then  put  them  into  boxe^ 
^nd  keep  them  in  a  place  where  th^  cannot  receive  injury 
.eithet  &om  heat  or  damp. 

Having  thus  gone  through  our  prelioMnary  hints  on  the 
various  branches  of  pastry  and  confectionary,  we  shall  now  pro- 
ceed to  particulars.  The  whole  of  the  receipts  are  written  with 
great  pare  and  oondsenessiy  and  classed  under  distinct  heads. 


PASTES  AND  CRUSTS. 


Rich  Pi^  Paste. 

Weigh  an  equal  quantity  of  butter  with  as  much  fine  flour 
as  you  judge  necessary  ;  mix  a  little  of  the  former  with  the 
latter,  and  wet  it  with  as  little  water  as  will  make  it  into  a  stiff 
paste.  HoU  it  out,  and  put  all  the  butter  over  it  in  slices, 
turn  in  the  ends,  and  roll  it  thin :  do  this  twice,  and  touch  it 
no  more  than  can  be  avoided.  The  butter  may  be  added  at 
twice;,  and  to  those  who  are  not  accustomed  to  make  paste,  it 
loay  be  better  to  do  so. 


^ 


PASTJ^y  AKO  <:OKFBCTIONARY.  981  j 

A  kis  ri€h  Pa»U. 

Weigh  t  pound  of  flour,  and  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter^ 
mb  them  together^  and  mix  them  into  a  paste  with  a  little  water^ 
and  an- egg  well  beaten---of  the  former  as  little  as  will  suffice, 
«r  the  paste  will  be  tough.    Roll  and  fold  it  three  or  four  timess 

Rub  extremely  fine  in  one  pound  of  dried  flour,  six  ounces 
of  butter,  and  a  spoonful  of  white  sugar;  work  up  the  whole 
into  a  stiflT  paste  with  as  little  hot  water  as  possible. 

A  gootf  Paste  far  large  Pies, 

Take  a  peck  of  flour^  and  put  to  it  three  eggs ;  then  put  in 
half  a  pound  of  suet,  and  a  pound  and  a  half  of  butter  and 
tuet,  and  as  much  of  the  liquor  as  will  make  it  a  good  light 
crust     Work  it  up  well,  and  roll  it  out. 

Paste  for  Tarts.  j 

Put  an  ounce  of  loaf  sugar  beat  and  sifted  to  one  pound  of 
fine  ^our.  Make  it  into  a  stiff  paste  with  a  gill  o£  boiling  cream^ 
and  three  ounces  of  butter.    Work  it  well,  and  roll  it  very  thin. 

Paste  for  stringing  Tartlets,  Sfc. 

Ifiix  with  your  hands  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  flpur,  ^n  \ 

ounce  of  fresh  butter,  and  a  little  cold  water :  rub  it  well 
between  the  board  and  your  band  till  it  begins  to  string ;  cut  it 
into  small  pieces,  roll  it  out  and  draw  it  into  fine  strings,  lay 
them  across  your  tartlets  in  any  device  you  please,  and  bake 
them  immediately.  J 

! 

Rice  Paste  for  Tarts*  j 

Boil  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  ground  rice  in  the  smallest 
quantity  of  water :  strain  fVom  it  all  the  moisture  as  well  as  you 
can ;  beat  it  in  a  mortar  with  half  an  ounce  of  butter,  and  one. 
egg  well  beaten,  and  it  will  make  an  excellent  paste  for  tarts,  &c* 

Short  Crust. 

Put  six  ounces  of  butter  to  eight  of  flour,  and  work  them 
well  together ;  then  mix  it  up  with  as  little  water  as  possible, 
so  as  to  have  it  a  stiffish  paste ;  then  roll  it  out  thin  fpr  use. 
Or.  yon  may  make  an  eiicelleitl  short  crust  thus :«- 


2B2  I^OlCBStlC  COOKBRT. 

Make  two  ounces  of  white  sagar,  pounded  and  Bifted,  quite 
dry  :  thenr  mix  it  with  a  pound  of  floor  weLl  dried ;  rub  into  it 
three  ounces  of  buttei;^  so  fine  as  not  to  be  seen.  Into  some 
cream  put  the  yolks  oi  two  ^gs  beaten,  and  mix  the  above 
into  a  smooth  paste ;  roll  it  thin,  and  bake  it  in  a  moderate  o?eii. 

Paste  far  Custards* 

To  half  a  pound  of  flour,  put  six  ounces  of  butter,  the 
yolks  of  two  ^gs,  and  three  spoonfuls  of  cream.  Mix  theni 
together,  and  let  them  stand  a  quarter  of  an  hour ;  then  work 
it  up  and  down,  and  roll  it  out  very  thin. 

to  he  forticuUtrbf  nice* 

m 

IDty  a  pound  of  the  finest  floor,  mix  it  with  three  ounces  of 
refined  sugar ;  then  work  half  a  pound  of  butter  with  your 
•hand  till  it  come  to  froth;  put^the  flour  into  it  by  degrees,  and 
work  into  it,  well  beaten  and  strained,  the  yolks  of  thre^  and 
whites  of  two  eggs.  If  too  limber,  put  some  flour  and  sugar» 
to  make  it  fit  to  roll.  Line  your  pattepans,  and  filL  A  little 
above  fifteen  minutes  will  bake  them.  Against  they  come  out^ 
have  ready  some  refined  sugar  beat  up  with  the  white  of  an  egg» 
as  thick  as  you  can ;  ice  them  all  over,  set  them  in  the  ovten  ti> 
harden,  and  serve  cold.    Use  fresh  butter. 

Salt  butter  will  make  a  very  fine  flaky  crust ;  but  if  for 
mince  pies,  or  any  sweet  things,  should  be  washed. 

FRUIT  PIES,  TARTS,  AND  PUFFS. 

Apple  Pie. 

Tak^  eight  russetings,  or  lemon  pippin  apples ;  pare,  core^ 
and  cut  not  smaller  than  quarters ;  place  them  as  close  as  pos- 
sible together  into  a  pie-dish,  with  four  cloves ;  rub  together 
in  a  mortar  some  lemon  peel,  with  four  ounces  of  good  moist 
sugar,  and,  if  agreeable,  add  some  quince  jam.  Cover  it  with 
puff*  paste— bake  it  an  hour  and  a  quarter.  (Generally  eaten 
warm.) 

Apple  Tart  Creamed. 

Use  green  codlings  in  preference  to  any  other  apple,  and 
proceldas  in  the  last  receipt    When  the  pie  is  done,  col  006 


PA8TBT  AND  CONVSCTIOK ART.  388 

tlie  whole  of  the  centre,  leaving  the  edgeu ;  when  cold,  poar 
«m  the  apple  Bome  rich  boiled  custard,  and  place  round  it  Bome 
mnall  leaves  of  puff  paate  of  a  light  colour. 

Ripe  Frwit  Tarts. 
Cooieberries^  damsons,  Movello  cherries,  currants  mixed 
with  raspberries,  plums,  green  gages,  white  plums,  &c.  should 
be  quite  iresh,  picked  and  washed.  Lay  them  io  the  dish  with 
the  centre  highest,  and  about  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  moist  or 
loaf  sugar,  pounded  to  a  quart  of  fruit  (but  if  quite  ripe  they 
wUl  not  require  so  much ;)  add  a  little  water— rub  the  edges  of 
the  dish  with  the  yoHc  (^  egg— cover  it  with  tart  paste,  about 
half  an  inch  .thick,  Fren  your  thumb  round  the  rim,  and 
close  it  well ;  --pare  it  round  with  a  knife,  make  a  hole  in  the 
sides  below  the  rim»— bake  it  in  a  moderate  heated  oven ;  and 
ten  minutes  before  it  is  done,  take  it  out  and  ice  it,  and  return 
it  to  the  oven  to  diy. 

Rich  Gooseberry  Pie  or  Tart. 

Butter  and  flour  the  dish  or  tart  pan,  to  prevent  the  crust 
«f  the  pie  or  tart  from  sticking  when  baked  ;  then  line  it  with  a 
sheet  of  puff  paste,  and  put  in  the  gooseberries,  well  mixed 
and  topped  with  sngar,  but  do  not  add  any  water.  Cover  it 
in  with  puff  paste  brushed  over  with  the  white  of  an  egg,  sift 
on  it  a  little  fine  sugar,  and  let  it  be  well  but  not  too  much 
baked.  On  coming  from  the  oven,  having  ready  a  proper 
quantity  of  prepared  cream,  cut  open  the  top  of  the  pie  or 
tart  to  introduce  it,  and  serve  up  in  the  usual  style.  Indeed, 
goofseberries  always  bake  greener  with  an  open  than  a  close  top^^ 
and  in  a  quick  oven ;  if  they  are  wanted  to  be  red^  they  should 
be  baked  slowly,  and  have  a  close  covering. 

Tartlets,  such  as  are  made  at  the  Pastry  Cooks. 

Roll  out  puff  paste  of  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick^  cut  it 
into  pieces,  and  sheet  pans  about  the  size  of  a  crown  piece, 
pare  them  round  with  a  knife,  and  put  a  smaU  quantity  of 
apricot,  damson,  raspberry,  strawberry,  apple,  marmalade^ 
or  any  other  kind  of  jam  in  the  centre :  take  paste,  and  string 
them  jprossways ;  bake  them  from  six  to  ten  minutes  in  a  quidc 
oven^  they  should  he  of  a  very  light  brown  colour. 


^ 
i 


r 


to4  BOMB8TIC  COOKBKT. 

Fnneh  Tori  of  fre$erv€d  FrmU. 

Cover  a  flat  dish  or  totirte  pan  with  tArt  pttte,  abditi.an 
eighth  of  an  inch  thick ;  roll  out  pufT  pastfe,  half  an  indi  thidc, 
cut  it  out  in  strips  an  inch  wide,  wet  the  tart  paste^  and  lay  it 
neatly  roond  the  pan  by  Way  of  a  tim ;  fill  the  centre  with  jam 
or  marmalade  of  any  kind,  ornament  it  with  -small  le^tt^  of 
puff  paste,  bake  it  half  an  hour,  and  sAid  it  to  table  oM. 

^The  above  may  be  filled  before  tht  puff  paste  is  laid  Oil, 
neatly  strung  with  paste,  and  tbe  rim  pot  over  after. 

The  most  gfeneral  Way  of  sendii^  totLttta  to  table  is  with  « 
croquante  of  paste,  or  a  caramel  of  sp6n  sug^/  put  ohrer  aftet 
it  is  baked. 

Crmhrry  Tsrt. 

Take  Swedish,  American,  or  Russian  cranberries,  pick  and 
wash  them  in  several  waters,  put  them  into  a  dish,  with  the 
juice  of  half  a  lemon,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  liibist  or  pound- 
ed loaf  sugar>  to  a  quart  of  cranberries.  Cover  it  with  puff 
pr  tart  paste,  and  bake  it  three  quarters  6f  an  hour.  If  tart 
paste  is  used,  draw  it  from  the  6^€tt  Bre  tninutes  before  it  ia 
done,  and  ice  it;  then  return  it  to  the  oven,  and  send  it  to  tabte 
cold. 

ARnee  Pfe#. 

Sheet  wilih  tart  paste  half  a  dozen  of  ttlk  pans  of  any  size 
you  please ;.,  fill  them  with  mince  meat,  and  cover  with  puff 
paste,  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thiak ;  trim  tound  the  edges  with  A 
knife,  make  an  aperture  at  the  top  with  a  fork,  bake  them  in 
a  moderate  heated  oven,  and  send  them  to  table  hot,  fhrse 
removiug  the  tin. 

Some  throw  a  little  sifted  loaf  sugar  over. 

The  best  mince  meat  is  made  as  follows :— Two  pounds 
of  beef  suet,  picked  and  chopped  fine;  two  pounds  of 
apple,  pared,  Cored,  and  ditto;  three  poUiidil  of  cummts, 
washed  and  picked;  one  pound  of  raisins,  stoned  and  chopped 
fine ;  one  pound  of  good  moist  sugar ;  half  a  pound  of  eit>tm» 
cut  into  thin  slices ;  one  pound  of  candied  lemon  ilnd  orange  peel, 
cut  as  ditto ;  two  pounds  of  ready  dressed  roast  beef,  f^  horn 
skin  and  gristle,  and  chopped  fine;  two  nutmegs,  grated  ;  one 
ounce  of  salt,  one  of  ground*  ginger;   half  an  ounce  of 


PA8T|I,Y  ANA  GO)«FEGTIOKX1Ct»^ 

coriander  seeds ;  half  an  ounce  of  allspice ;  half  an  ounce  of  — -  - J 

cloves ;  tjl-  grpund  fine :  the  juice  of  six  lemon3,  and  their 
xinds  grated ;  half  a  pint  of  brandy,  and  a  pint  of  sweet  wine.. 
Bfix  the  suet^  apple^  currants,  nieat^  plums^  and  sweetaieatfl> 
'well  together  in  a  large  pan^  and  strew  in  the  spice  hy  degrees; 
mix  the  sugar,  lemon  juice,  wine,  and  brandy,  and  pour  it  toi, 
the  other  ingredients,  and  stir  it  well  together.  Set  it  by  in. 
close  covered  pans  in  ^  eo}d  place :  when  wanted*,  stir  it  up 
from  the  bottom^  and  add  half  a  glass  of  brandy  to  the  quantity 
you  want 

N.  B.  The  same  weight  of  tripe  is  frequently  substituted 
for  the  meat,  and  sometimes  the  yolks  of  eggs  boiled  hard. 

The  lean  side  of  a  butto^rk,  thoroughly  roastedj^  is  gene-^ 
rallv  chosen  for  mince  meat. 

* 

Another  method  of  making  Mince  Pie9. 

Shred  three  pounds  of  meat  very  fine,  and  chop  it  as  small 
«8  possible ;  take  two  pounds  of  raisins  stoned  and  chopped 
Tery  fine,  the  same  quantity  of  currants,  nicely  picked,  wash* 
ed,  rubbed,  and  dried  at  the  fire.  Pare  half  a  hundred  fina 
pippins,  core  them,  and  chop  them  small ;  take  half  a  pound 
of  fine  sugar,  and  pound  it  fine;  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  mace, 
a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  cloves,  and  two  large  nutmegs,  all 
beat  fine ;  put  them  all  into  a  large  pan,  and  mhc  them  well 
together  with  half  a  pint  of  brandy,  and  half  a  pint  of  sack ; 
pat  it  down  close  in  a  stone  pot,  and  it  will  keep  good  three  o» 
four  months.     When  you  make  your  pies,  take  a  little  dish,  • 

Bomewhat  larger  than  a  soup-^plate,  lay  a  very  Uitn  crust  all 
over  it ;  lay  a  thin  layer  of  meat,  and  then  a  layer  of  citron 
cut  very  thin,  then  a  layer  of  mince  meat,  and  a  layer  of 
orange  peel  cut  thin ;  over  that  a  little  meat ;  squeeze  half  the 
juice  of  a  fine  Seville  orange  or  lemon,  lay  oa  your  crust,  and 
bake  it  nicely.  These  pies  eat  very  fine  cold.  If  you  make 
them  in  little  patties,  mix  your  meats  and  sweettneats  acccMrd* 
ingly.  If  you  choose  meat  in  your  pies,  parboil  a  neat's  tongue, 
peel  it,  and  chop  the  me&t  as  fine  as  possible,  and  mix  with  the 
rest :  or  two  pounds  of  the  inside  of  a  sirloin  of  beef  boiled* 
But  when  you  use  meat,  the  quantity  of  fruit  must  be 
doubled. 

14  Sd 


386  DOMESTIC  COOkERY* 

Lemon  Mince  Pies, 

Squeeze  a  large  lemon,  boil  the  outside  till  tender  enough 
to  beat  to  a  inash,  add  to  it  three  large  apples  chopped,  and 
four  ounces  of  suet,  half  a  pound  of  currants,  four  ounces  or 
sugar;  put  the  juice  of  the  lemon,  and  candied  fruit,  as  for 
other  pies.     Make  a  short  crust,  and  fill  the  pattepans  as  usuaL 

Egg  Mince  Pies* 

Boil  six  eggB  hard,  shred  them  small ;  shred  double  the  quan-» 
tity  of  suet:  then  put  currants  washed  and  picked,  one  pound^- 
or  more  if  the  eggs  were  large  ;  the  peel  of  one  lemon  shred 
very  fine,  and  the  juice,  six  spoonfuls  of  sweet  wine,  mace> 
nutmeg,  sugar,  a  very  little  salt;  orange,  lemon^'and  citron, 
candied.     Make  a  light  paste  for  them. 

« 

Orange  and  Lemon  Tarts. 

Take  six  large  oranges  or  lemons,  rub  them  well  with  salt, 
and  put  them  into  water,  with  a  handful  of  salt  in  it,  for  two 
days.  Then  change  them  every  day  with  fresh  water,  without 
salt,  for  a  fortnight  .  Boil  them  till  they  are  tender,  and  then 
cut  them  into  half-quarters  comer  ways  as  thin  as  possible. 
Take  six  pippins  pared^  cored,  and  quartered,  and  put  them 
into  a  pint  of  water.  Let  them  boil  till  they  break,  then  piit 
the  liquor  to  your  oranges  or  lemons,  half  the  pulp  of  the  pip* 
pins  well  broken,  and  a  pound  of  sugar.  Boil  these  together 
a  quarter  of  an  hour,'  then  put  it  into  a  pot;  and  squeeze  into 
it  either  the  juice  of  an  orange  or  lemon,  according  to  which 
of  the  tarts  you  intend  to  make.  Two  spoonfuls  will  be  suf- 
ficient to  give  a  proper  flavour  to  your  tart  Put  fine  puff 
paste,  and  very  thin,  into  your  pattepans,  which  must  be 
small  and  shaUow.  Before  you  put  your  tarts  into  the  oven, 
take  a  feather  or  brush,  and  rub  them  over  with  melted  butter, 
then  sift  some  double  refined  sugar  over  them,  which  will  form 
a  pretty  icing,  and  make  them  have  a  pleasing  effect  on  the  eye. 

Artichoke  Pie. 

Boil  twelve  artichokes,  break  off  the  leaves  and  chokes, 
and  take  the  bottoms  clear  from  the  stalks.  Make  a  good  puff 
paste  crust,  and  lay  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  fresh  batter  all  over 
the  bottom  of  your  pie.    Then  ky  a  row  of  artichokes,  strew 


iPASTfiT  AND  CONFECTIONARY.  387 

ft  little  pepper,  salt,  and  beaten  mace  over  them;  then  another 
row ;  strew  the  rest  of  your  spice  over  them,  and  put  in  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  more  butter  cut  in  little  bits.  Take  half 
■n  ounce  of  truffles  and  morels,  and  boil  them  in  a  quarter  of 
a  pint  of  water.  Pour  the  water  into  the  pie^  cut  the  truffles 
and  morels  very  small,  and  throw  them  all  over  the  pie.  Pour 
in  a  gill  of  white  wine,  cover  your  pie,'  and  bake  it.  When 
the  crust  is  done,  the  pie  will  be  enough. 

Fermicelli  Pie. 

Season  four  pigeons.with  a  little  pepper  and  salt,  stuff  them 
with  a  piece  of  butter,  a  few  crumbs  of  bread,  and  a  little 
parsley  cut  small ;  butter  a  deep  earthen  dish  well,  and  then 
cover  the  bottom  of  it  with  two  ounces  of  vermicelli.  .  Make 
a  puff  paste,  roll  it  pretty  thick,  and  lay  it  on  the  dish;  then 
lay  in  the  pigeons,  the  breasts  downwards,  put  a  thick  lid  on  the 
pie/  bake  it  in  a  moderate  oven.  When  itis  enough,  take  a  dish 
proper  for  it  to  be  sent  to  table  in,  and  turn  the  pie  on  it  The 
vermicelli  will  be  then  on  the  top,  and  have  a  pleasing  effect. 

Pippin  Tarts. 

•  Pare  thin  two  Seville  or  China  oranges,  boil  the  peel  tender^ 
and  shred  it  fine ;  pare  and  core  twenty  apples,  put  them  in  a 
stew-pan,  and  as  little  water  as  possible ;  when. half-done,  add 
half  a  pound  of  sugar,  the  orange-peel  and  juice ;  boil  till 
pretty  thick.  When  cold,  put  it  in  a  shallow  dish,  or  patte* 
pans  lined  with  paste,  to  tnm  out,  and  be  eaten  cold. 

.  Piime  Tart. 

Give  prunes  a  scald,  take  out  the  stones  and  break  them ; 
put  the  kernels  into  a  little  cranberry-juice,  with  the  prunes 
and  sugar ;  simmer;  and  when  cold,  make  a  tart  of  the  sweet- 
meat. 

Rhubarb  Tart. 

Cut  the  stalkrin  lengths  of  four  or  five  inches,  and  take  off 
the  thin  skin.  If  you  have  a  hot  hearth,  lay  them  in  a  dish, 
and  put  over  a  thin  S3rrup  of  sug^  and  water,  cover  with 
another  dish,  and  let  it  simmer  very  slowly  an  hour,  .or  do  them 
in  a  block-tin  sauce-pan.  When  the  rhubarb  is  cold,  make  it 
into  a  tart*   When  tender^  the  baking  the  crust  will  be  sufficient* 


y 


il8i^  DdMJeSTic  cbektRV. 

itfrertt  Peas  Thtf. 
Bdil  CGfindf  yontig  gr&eh  )f>eas  a  very  ^oH:  tirite ;  Aen  ^l  M 
them  a  Ihtle  salt,  widi  some  grated  loaf  sugtlr,  fresh  butter^ 
Ahd  saffrbn.     Enclose  them  witii  a  fihe  puff  |)ast6^  bake    if 
l^ently^  and  serve  it  up  with  sugar  scraped  t)ver. 

r 

Il^$pbttihf  Tart  Ufith  Cream. 

Roll  out  some  thin*  puff  paste,  and  lay  it  iti  a  patte|Mni  ot 
what  size  you  choose ;  put  in  raspberries ;  strew  over  them  fine 
sugar ;  cover  with  a  thiii  licl,  and  then  bake.  Cut  it  open,  and 
have  ready  the  following  mixture  warm :  half  a  (iint  of  cream, 
the  yolks  of  two  or  three  eggs  well  beaten,  and  a  little  sugar  f 
tod  when  this  is  added  to  the  tart,  teturn  it  td  the  oveti  for  Are 
or  six  minutes. 

Transparent  Tarts. 

Take  a  pound  of  6ne  weU  dried  and  sifted  floor;  tjben  bent 
in  egg  till  it  becomes  quite  thin,  melt  three-quarters  of  a 
pound  of  clarified  fresh  butter  to  mix  with  the  egg  as  soon  as 
it  is  sufficiently  cool,  pour  the  whole  into  the  centre  of  the 
flour,  and  make  up  the  paste.  Roll  it  extremely  thin ;  make 
np'the  tarttf;  and>  when  setting  them  in  the  oven,  wet  them 
over  widi  a  very  little  water,  and  grate  a  small  quantity  of  fine 
Sugar  on  them.  If  they  are  baked  lightly  they  will,  it  is  said^ 
be  very  fine  indeed. 

Almond  Tarts. 

•      ■  ,     ■ 

Having  blanched  some  almonds,  beat  them  very  fine  in  a 
mortar,  with  a  little  whit6  wine  and  some  sugar,  (a  pound  of 
sugar  to  a  pound  of  almonds)  some  grated  bread,  a  little  nut- 
meg, some  cream,  imd  the  juice  of  spinage  to  colour  the 
almonds  green.  Bake  it  in  a  gentle  oven;  and  idien  it  is  done, 
thicken  it  with  candied  orange  or  citron. 

JChocotate  Tarts. 

Rasp  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  chocolate,  a  stidL  of 
chmamon,  add  some  fi'esh  lemon  peel  grated,  a  little  salt, 
and  some  sugar  t  take  two  spoonftals  of  fine  flour,  and  the 
yolks  of  six  eggs  well  beaten,  and  mixed  with  some  milk. 
Fm  aU  these  mto  a  stew-pati|  and  let  them  be  a  little  aret  the 


PASTRY  AND  CONFEOTIOHART.  980 

ttfe:  add  a  little  lemdn  peel  cat  small,  and  let  it  stand  to  hb 
o(Ad.  Beat  up  the  whites  of  eggs  enough  to  cover  it^  and  pat 
it  in  puff  paste.  When  it  is  baked,  sift  some  sugar  over  it,  and 
glaze  it  with  a  salamander. 

Apple  Pvff^s. 

Pare  the  iruit,  and  either  stew  them  in  a  stone  jar  on  a  hot 
hearth^  or  bake  them.  When  cold,  mix  the  pulp  of  the  apple 
with  sugar  and  leknon  peel  shred  fine,  taking  as  little  of  the 
apple  juice  as  you  can;  Bake  them  in  thin  paste,  in  a  quick 
oven ;  a  quarter  of  an  hour  will  do  them,  if  small.  Orange 
or  quince  marmalade  is  'a  great  improvement.  Cinnamon 
pounded,  or  orange  flower  water,  in  change. 

Lemon  Puffs. 

Beat  and  sift  a  pound  and  a  quarter  of  double  refined  sugar; 
grate  the  rind  of  two  large  lemons,  and  mix  it  well  with 
the  sugar;  then  beat  the  whites  of  three  new-laid  eggs  a 
great  while,  add  them  to  the  sugar  and  peel,  and  beat  it  for 
an  hour ;  make  it  up  in  any  shape  you  please,  and  bake  it  on 
paper  put  on  tin-plates,  in  a  moderate  oven.  Do  not  removo 
the  paper  till  cold.    Oiling  the  paper  will  make  it  come  off  with 


Sugar  Pufft. 

Beat  up  the  whites  of  ten  eggs  till  they  rise  to  a  high  frothy 
and  then  put  them  into  a  marble  mortar,  with  as  much  double 
refined  sugar  as  will  make  it  thick.  Then  rub  it  well  round 
the  mortar,  put  in  a  few  caraway  seeds,  and  take  a  sheet  of 
wafers,  and  lay  it  on  as  broad  as  a  sixpence,  and  as  high  as  you 
can.  Put  them  into  a  moderately  heated  oven  for  about  a  quar- 
ter of  an  hour,  and  they  will  have  a  very  white  and  delicate 
appearance. 

I^all  Puffs  of  Preserved  Fruit. 

.  Roll  oat  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  good  puff  paste,  and 
cut  it  into  pieces  four  inches  square ;  lay  a  small  quantity  of 
any  kind  of  jam  on  each— double  them  over,  and  cut  them  into 
square,  triangle,  or  with  a  tin  cutter,  half  moona— lay  them 


390  0OMS8T1C  COOKBRY. 

with  paper  on  a  baking  plate— ice  them,  and  bake  them  about 
twenty  minutes^  taking  care  not  to  colour  the  icing. 

Almond  Pnffs. 

Take  two  ounces  of  eweet  almonds,  blanch  them,  and  beat 
them  very  fine  with  orange  flower  water.  Beat  up  the  whites 
of  three  eggs  to  a  very  high  froth,  and  then  strew  in  a  litde 
sifted  sugar.  Mix  your  almonds  with  the  sugar  and  eggs,  and 
then  add  some  sugar  till  it  is  as  thick  as  paste.  Lay  it  in  cakea, 
and  hake  them  in  a  slack  oven  on  paper. 

Chocolate  Puffs, 

Beat  and  sif\;  half  a  pound  of  double-refined  sugar,  scrape 
into  it  an  ounce  of  chocolate  very  fine,  and  mix  them  together. 
Beat  up  the  white  of  an  egg  to  a  very  high  froth,  and  strew 
into  it  your  sugar  and  chocolate.  Keep  beating  it  till  it  is  as 
thick  as  paste,  then  sugar  your  paper,  drop  them  on  about  the 
size  of  a  sixpence,  and  bake  them  in  a  very  slow  oven. 

Curd  Puffs. 

Put  a  little  rennet  into  two  quarts  of  milk,  and  when  it  is 
broken,  put  it  into  a  coarse  cloth  to  drain.  Then  rub  the 
curd  through  a  hair  sieve,  and  put  to  it  four  ounces  of  butter^ 
ten  ounces  of  bread,  half  a  nutmeg,  a  lemon  peel  grated,  and 
a  spoonful  of  wine.  Sweeten  with  sugar  to  your  taste,  rub 
your  cups  with  butter,  and  put  them  into  the  oven  for  about 
half  an  hour. 

Excellent  Ught  Puffs. 

Mix  two  spoonfuls  of  flour,  a  little  grated  lemon  peel,  some 
nutmeg,  half  a  spoonful  of  brandy,  a  little  loaf  sugar,  and  one 
egg ;  then  fry  it  enough,  but  not  brown ;  beat  it  in  a  mortar 
with  five  eggs,  whites  and  yolks ;  put  a  quantity  of  lard  in  a 
frying-pan,  and  when  quite  hot,  drop  a  dessert-spoonful  of 
batter  at  a  time :  turn  as  they  brown.  Serve  them  immediately 
with  sweet  sauce. 

Wafers, 
Take  a  spoonful  of  orange  flower  water,  two  spoonfuls  of 
flour,  two  of  sugar^  and  the  same  of  milk.    Beat  them  well 


PASTRY  AND  CONFECTIONARY.  BQi 

txqfether  for  half  an  hour;  then  make  your  wafer  tongs  hot, 
and  pour  a  little  of  your  batter  in  to  cover  your  irons.  Bake 
them  on  a  stove  fire^  and  as  they  are  baking,  roll  them  round 
a  stick  like  a  spigot  When  they  are  cold^  they  will  be  Very 
crisp^  and  are  proper  to  be  ate  either  with  jellies  or  tea. 

Jcing  far  Fruit  Tarts,  Pt^s,  or  Pastry. 

Beat  up  in  a  half  pint  mug  the  white  of  two  eggs  to  a  solid 
froth ;  lay  some  on  the  middle  pf  the  pie  with  a  paste  brush, 
— sift  over  plenty  of  pounded  sugar^  and  press  it  down  with 
the  hand^— wash  out  the  brushy  and  splash  by  degrees  with' 
irater  till  the  sugar  is  dissolved^  and  put  it  in  the  oven  for  ten 
minutes,  and  serve  it  up  cold. 

Rich  Cream  for  Fruit  Pies  or  Tarts. 

Boil  a  bit  of  lemon  or  Se?ille  orange  peel,  a  little  cinnamon| 
two  laurel  leaves,  a  dozen  coriander  seeds,  two  or  three  cloves, 
a  blade  of  mace,  and  a  pint  of  new  milk ;  and,  having  ready 
In  another  stew-pan  the  yolks  of  three  eggs,  beaten  up  with  a 
little  good  milk  and  half  a  spoonful  of  fine  flour,  strain  and  stir 
the  hot  milk  in,  set  it  over  the  fire,  instantly  begin  whisking 
it  to  a  thick  cream  consistence,  and  immediately  take  it  off 
again.  As  it  gets  a  little  cool,  stir  in  a  table-spoonful  of  rose 
or  orange  flower  water ;  or,  if  higher  perfume  be  required,  a 
little  syrup  of  dove-gilliflowers,  and  a  few  drops  of  essence  of 
ambergris.  This  rich  cream  is  particularly  agreeable  with 
pies  or  tarts  of  green  gooseberries,  codlings,  or  currants.  It 
may  be  made  in  a  plain  manner,  very  good,  with  lemon  peel, 
cinnamon,  and  laurel  leaves  only,  boiled  in  milk,  and  a  single 
egg  beat  up  with  a  spoonful  of  rice  Hour.  Fruit  pies  with 
cream  should  always  be  covered,  like  tarts,  with  puff  paste ; 
and^  when  served  up,  have  their  tops  cut  round  and  taken  off, 
for  the  purpose  of  depositing  either  of  the  above  creams  on  the 
fruit :  after  which,  the  top  may  be  replaced,  either  whole  or  in 
quarters,  or  small  leaves  of  ornamental  baked  puff  paste  be 
laid  all  round. . 


9M  POMESTIC  COOKIRY* 

SUGARS  AND  COLOURS. 

'ne  pr€p4iratiau  of  Sugan  and  Odours* 

To  prepare  sugars  properly  is  a  material  .point  in  the  basin«a« 
of  confectionary;  and  as  some  rules  are  undoubtedly  necessary^ 
in  a  work  of  this  kind,  we  shall  first  explain  the  process  of 
clarifying  sugar,  which  must  be  done  in  the  following  manner: 

Break  the  white  of  an  egg  into  your  preserving-pan,  put 
to  it  four  quarts  of  water,  and  beat  it  up  to  a  froth  with  ^ 
^hisk.  Then  put  in  twelve  pounds  of  sugar,  mix  all  toge- 
ther^ and  set  it  over  the  fire.  .When  it  boils  put  in  a  little  col4 
ivater,  and  in  this  manner  proceed  as  many  times  as  may  be 
necessary,  till  the  scum  appears  thick  on  the  top.  Jhen  re« 
move  it  from  the  fire,  and  when  it  is  settled  take  off  the  scum^ 
and  pass  it  through  a  straining-bag.  If  the  sugar  should  not 
appear  very  fine,  give  it  another  boil  before  you  strain  it.  This 
IS  the  first  operation,  having  done  which  you  may  proceed  to 
^arify  your  sugar  to  either  of  the  following  degrees. 

1.  Smooth  or  Candy  Sugar,— After  having  gone  through 
the  first  prdtess,  as  before  directed,  put  what  quantity  you 
may  have  occasion  for  over  the  fire,  and  let  it  boil  till  it  is 
smooth.  This  you  may  know  by  dipping  your  skimmer  into 
^he  sugar,  and  then  touching  it  between  your  fore-finger  and 
thumb,  and  immediately  on  opening  them,  you  will  observe  a 
small  thread  drawn  between^  which  will  immediately  break, 
^d  remain  on  a  drop  on  your  thumb,  which  will  be  a  sign  of 
its  being  in  some  degree  of  smoothness.  Then  give  it  another 
boiling,  and  it  will  draw  into  a  larger  string,  when  it  will  have 
acquired  the  first  degree ;  from  whence  we  proceed  to, 

2.  Bloom  Sugar ' — In  this  degree  of  refining  sugar,  you 
must  boil  it  longer  than  in  the  former  process,  and  then  dip 
your  skimmer  in,  shaking  off  what  sugar  you  can  into  the 
pan :  then  blow  with  your  mouth  strongly  through  the  holes, 
and  if  certain  bladders,  or  bubbles,  go  through,  it  will  be  a 
proof  that  it  has  acquired  the  second  degree. 

3.  Feathered  Sugar. — To  prove  this  degree,  dip  the  skim- 
mer into  the  sugar  when  it  has  boiled  longer  than  in  the  former 
degrees.  When  you  have  so  done,  first  shake  it  over  the  pan, 
then  give  it  a  sudden  flirt  behind  you,  and  if  it  is  enough,  the 
augax  will  fly  off  like  feathers. 


PASTRY  AND  CONFBCTIOKART.  MS 

4.  Craekhd  S^gm*, ^^fMl  your  sugar  longer  thsn  in  the  pre* 
ceding  decree ;  then  dip  a  stick  into  it,  and  iwimediately  pAt  it 
into  a  pan  of  cold  water,  which  you  must  have  by  you  foir  that 
purpose.  Dra:w  dF  the  sugar  that  hangs  to  the  stick  hito  the 
water,  and  if  it  becomes  hard,  ^nd  snaps,  it  has  ao^uired  the 
proper  degree ;  but  if  otherwise,  you  must  boil  it  again  till  it 
answers  that  trial.  Be  p^bticularly  careful  that  the  wat^r  you 
use  for  this  purpose  is  perfectly  cold,  otherwise  you  will  be 
greatly  deceived. 

5.  Carmel  Sugar. — To  obtain  the  last  degree,  your  sugar 
must  boil  longer  than  in  either  of  the  former  operations.  Yoii 
must  prove  it  by  dipping  a  stick,  first  into  the  sugar,  and  then 
Into  Cold  water ;  but  this  you  must  obsei^e,  that  when  it  comes 
to  the  carmel  height,  it  will,  the  moment  if  touches  the  Water, 
snap  like  glass,  which  is  the  highest  and  l^et  degree  of  refining 
so^r*  When  you  boil  this,  take  care  that  you¥  fite  is  not  too 
fierce,  lest  it  should,  by  flaming  up  the  sides  of  the  pan,  cause 
the  sagstf  to  bum,  discolour  it,  and  thereby  destroy  all  your 
labour. 

Having  thus  described  the  various  degrees  of  refining  sugar, 
we  shall  now  point  out  the  method  of  preparing  those  colours 
with  which  they  may  be  tinged,  according  to  the  fancy,  and 
the  different  purposes,  for  which  they  are  to  be  used. 

Red  Colaur, —To  make  this  colour,  boil  an  ounce  of  cochi- 
neal in  half  a  pint  of  water,  for  above  five  minutes ;  then  add 
half  an  ounce  of  cream  of  tartar,  and  half  an  ounce  of  pounded 
alum,  and  boil  the  whole  on  a  slow  fire  about  as  long  again. 
In  order  to  know  if  it  is  done,  dip  a  pen  into  it,  write  on  white 
paper,  and  if  it  shows  the  colour  clear,  it  is  sufficient.  Then 
take  it  off  the  fire,  add  two  ounces  of  sugar,  and  let  it  settle. 
Pour  it  clear  off,  and  keep  it  in  a  bottle  well  stopped  for  use. 

Blue  Colour.— 'This  colour  is  only  for  present  use,  and  must 
be  made  thus :  Put  a  little  warrti  water  into  a  plate,  and  rub  an 
indigo  stone  ih  it  till  the  colour  is  come  to  the  tint  you  would 
have  it.     The  more  you  rub  it,  the  highei*  the  colour  will  be. 

Yelhw  Colour. —This  is  done  by  pouring  a  little  water  into 
A  plate,  and  rubbing  it  with  a  bit  of  gamboge.  It  may  also  be 
Aime  with  yellow  lily  thus :  Take  the  heart  of  the  flower,  infuse 
the  colour  with  milk-warm  water,  and  preserve  it  in  a  bottle 
well  stopped. 

14  5'  E         ' 


994  .  QOVEStlC  COOKERY* 

€hrten  Cohmr. — Trim  the  leaves  of  Bome  apinage^  boil  them 
about  half  a  minote  in  a  little  water^  then  strain  it  dear  ofij 
and  it  will  be  fit  for  use. 

Any  alteration  may  be  made  in  these  coldurs,  by  mixing  to 
what  shade  you  think  foroper ;  but  on  these  occasions  taste  and 
fancy  must  be  your  guide. 

Detices  in  Sngar.-rSteep  gum-tragacanth  in  rose  water, 
and  with  some  double  refined  sugar  make  it  into  a  paste. 
Colour  it  to  your  &icy^  and  make  up  your  device  in  such  forms 
as  you  may  think  proper.  You  may  have  moulds  made  in 
various  shapes  for  this  purpose,  and  your  devices  will  be  pretty 
ornaments  placed  on  the  top  of  iced  cakes. 

Suf^ar  of  Rosea  in  various  Ftgtfre«.— Chip  off  the  while 
part  of  some  rose  buds,  and  dry  them  in  the  sun.  Pound  an 
ounce  of  them  very  fine ;  then  take  a  pound  of  loaf  sugar, 
wet  it  in  some  rose  water,  and  boil  it  to  a  candy  height ;  then 
put  in  your  powder  of  roses,  and  the  juice  of  a  lemon.  Ifix 
all  well  together,  then  put  it  on  a  pie  plate,  and  cut  it  into 
lozenges,  or  make  it  into  any  kind  of  shapes  or  figures  your 
fancy  may  draw.  If  you  want  to  use  them  as  omaments  for 
a  dessert,  you  may  gild  or  colour  them  to  your  taste. 

CAKK8,  BISCUITS,  AMD  BUNS. 

A  common  Cake. 
Ma  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  flour  with  half  a  pound 
of  butter,  four  ounces  of  sugar,  four  eggs,  half  an  ounce  of 
caraways,  and  a  gUss  of  raisin  wine.    Beat  it  well,  and  bake 
in  a  quidc  oven.     Fine  Lisbon  sugar  will  do. 

A  very  good  common  Cake. 
Rub  eight  ounces  of  butter  in  two  pounds  of  dried  flour; 
mix  it  with  three  spoonfuls  of  yeast  that  is  not  bitter,  to  a  paste. 
Let  it  rise  an  hour  and  a  half;  then  mix  in  the  yolks  and  whites 
of  four  eggs  beaten  apart,  one  pound  of  sugar^  some  milk  to 
make  it  a  proper  thickness  (about  a  pint  will  be  sufficient,)  a 
gkss  of  sweet  wine,  the  rind  of  a  lemon,  and  a  tea-apoonful 
of  ginger.  Add  either  a  pound  of  currants,  or  some  cam- 
ways,  and  beat  well. 


FA8TRT  AKI>  CONFECTIONARY.  806 

A  very  fine  Cake, 

Wash  two  pounds  and  a  half  o(  fresh  batter  in  water  first, 
an3,  then  in  rose-water ;  beat  the  butter  to  a  cream ;  beat  twenty 
qgpgs,  yolks  and  whites  separately,  half  an  hour  each.  Have  ready 
two  pounds  and  a  half  of  the  finest  flour,  well  dried,  and  kept 
hot,  likewise  a  pound  and  a  half  of  su^ar  pounded  and  sifted, 
one  ounce  of  spice  in  finest  powder,  three  pounds  of  currants 
nicely  cleaned  and  dry,  half  a  pound  of  almonds  blanched,  and 
three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  sweetmeats  cut  not  too  thin.  Let 
all  be  kept  by  the  fire,  mix  all  the  dry  ingredients;  pour  the 
^gg^  strained  to  the  butter ;  mix  half  a  pint  of  sweet  wine  with 
a  large  glass  of  brandy,  pour  it  to  the  butter  and  eggs,  mix 
well,  then  have  all  the  dry  things  put  in  by  degrees ;  beat  them 
very  thoroughly ;  you  can  hardly  do  it  too  much.  Having 
half  a  poand  of  stoned  jar*raisins  chopped  as  fine  as  possible, 
mix  them  carefully,  so  that  there  shall  be  no  lumps,  and  add  a 
teaF>capftil  of  orange-flower  water.  Beat  the  ingredients  toge- 
ther a  full  hour  at  least.  Have  a  hoop  well  buttered,  or,  if 
yaa,  have  none,  a  tin  or  copper  cake-pan;  take  a  white  paper, 
doubled  and  buttered^  and  put  in  the  pan  round  the  edge ;  if  the 
eake  battisr,  fill  it  more  than  three  parts,  for  space  should  be 
aUowed  for  rising.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven.  It  will  require  three 
hours. 

Flat  Cakes,  that  will  keep  long  in  the  Home  good. 
Mix  two  pounds  of  flour,  one  pound  of  sugar,  and  otte 
ounce  of  caraways,  with  four  or  ^^e  «ggs,  and  a  few  spoonfuls 
of  wat^r,  to  make  a  stiflf  paste ;  roll  it  thin,  and  cut  it  into  any 
shape.  Bake  on  tins  lightly  floured.  While  baking,  boil  a 
pound  of  sugar  in  a  pint  of  water  to  a  thin  syrup ;  while  both 
are  hot,  dip  each  cake  into  it,  and  put  themr  on  tins  into  the 
oven  to  dry  for  a  short  time;  and  when  the  oven  is  cooler  still, 
return  them  th^e  again,  and  let  them  stay  four  or  five  hours. 

LAttU  white  Cakee. 

Dry  half  a  pound  qf  flour,  rub  into  it  a  very  little  pounded 
sugar,  one  ounce  of  butter,  one  egg,  a  few  cartways,  and 
as  much  milk  and  water  as  to  make  a  paste;  roll  it  thin,  and 
cut  it  with  the  top  of  a  canister  or  glass.  Bake  fifteen  minutea 
en  tin  plates. 


306  DOMESTIC  €OPK£RT' 

Little  short  Cakes, 

Rub  into  a  pound  of  dried  flour  four  ounces  of  butter,  four 
ounces  of  white  powder  sugar,  one  egg,  and  a  spoonful  or  trwa 
of  thin  cream  to  make  it  into  a  paste.  When  mixed,  put  cur- 
rants into  one  half,  and  caraways  into  the  rest.  Cut  them  as 
before,  and  bake  on  tins. 

Derby  or  Short  Cakes. 

Rub  in  wit|i  the  hand  one  pound  of  butter  into  two  pounds 
of  sifted  ^our ;  put  one  pound  of  currants,  one  pound  of  good 
moist  sugar^  apd  onp  eg^ ;  miy  all  together  with  half  a  pint  of 
pilk,-r-roll  it  out  thin,  and  cut  them  into  round  cake$  with  a 
cutter  ;  lay  theip  ou  a  clean  baling  plate,  and  put  them  iptp 
a  middling  heated  oyen,  for  about  five  minutes. 

4  vfTM  rich  Twelfth  C^ke. 

Pat  into  seven  pounds  of  fine  Hour  two  pomids  and  a  liaif 
of  fresh  butter,  and  seven  pounds  of  nicely  picked  and  daans- 
ed  currants ;  with  two  krga  natm^s,  half  an  oahoe  of  maoe, 
and  a  quarter  of  an  ^ennce  of  cloves,  and  a  pound  of  loaf 
sugar,  all  finely  beaten  and  grated  ;  sixteen  eggi,  leaving  out 
four  whites ;  and  a  pint  and  a  half  of  the  best  yeast.  Waim  as 
much  cream  as  will  wet  this  mass,  and  pour  mountain  wine  to 
make  it  as  thick  as  batter ;  beat,  grossly,  a  pound  of  almonds 
mixed  with  mountain  and  orange-flower  water,  and  put  in  a 
pound  iqid  a  half  of  candied  orange,  lemon,  and  citron  peeK 
Mix  the  whole  well  together ;  and  put  the  cake  into  a  hoop, 
with  paste  under  it,  to  save  the  bottom  while  it  is  baking. 

The  fdlowing  is  a  fine  iceing  for  a  twelfUi  cake : — Take  the 
whites  of  five  eggs,  whipped  up  to  a  froth,  and  put  to  them 
a  pound  of  doable  refined  sugar  powdered  and  sifted,  and 
three  spoonfuls  of  orange-fiower  wat^.  Beat  it  up  all  the 
time  the  cake  is  in  the  oven;  and,  the  moment  it  comes 
out,  ice  over  the  top  with  the  spoon.  Some  also  put  into  the 
iceing  a  grain  of  ambergris,  bat  that  perfume  is  too  powerful 
for  many  tastes.  A  little  lemon  juice- is  often  used  instead  of 
the  orange-flower  water. 


PASTBY  AN 9  COVPBCTIONART.  387 

Briin  9r  Weddmg  Cake. 

Tbe  only  difference  uaiudly  made  io  this  and  the  foregoing 
ceke  13,  the  additi<Hi  of  one  pound  of  rainns,  stoned  end  mixed 
vith  the  other  fruit. 

ne  Countess  of  RutUfnd's  famous  Banbwry  Bride  Cake. 

This  celebrated  cake,  the  method  d  making  which  has  been 
preserved  nearly  two  centuries,  as  a  bride->cahe  of  the  very  first 
order,  was  first  made,  under  the  countess's  directions,  on  the 
marriage  of  her  daughter.   Lady  Chaworth.     The  genuine 
receipt  is  as  follows :  --Take  a  peck  of  the  finest  fiour ;  half  an 
ounce  each -of  beaten  and  sifted  mace^  nutmg^,  and  cinna- 
mon ;  two  pounds  of  fresh  butter ;  ten  yolks  and  six  whites  of 
eggs ;  and  somewhat  more  than  a  pint  of  good  ale  yeast    Bei^ 
the  eggs  weU;  strain  them,  with  the  yeast  and  a  little  warm 
water,  into  the  flour ;  and  add  the  butter  cold,  broken  into 
small  bits.    The  iivater  ^ith  w]ych  th^  paste  is  kneaded  must  be 
scalding  hot;  and,  on  being  thus  well  worked  together,  it  is  to 
be  set  to  rise  near  the  fire,  covered  by  a  warm  cloth,  for  about 
a  quarter  of  au  hour.     This  being  done^  ten  pounda  of  picked 
and  cleansed  currents  are  to  be  prepared  with  a  little  musk  and 
ambergris  dissolved  in  rose  water.    The  currants  must  be  made 
very  dry,  otherwise  they  will  render  the  cake  heavy ;  and  finely 
powdered  loaf  sugar  is  to  be  strewed  among  them,  fully  sufii- 
cient  for  supplying  all  tlie  natural  sweetness  of  which  they  have 
been  deprived  by  the  water  wherein  they  were  washed.     The 
paste  being  now  all  broken  into  small  pieces,  the  currants  are 
to  be  added  in  alternate  layers,  a  layer  of  paste  and  a  layer  of 
currants,  till  the  whole  are  well  mingled,  but  without  breaking 
the  currants.    A  piece  of  paste,  afrer  it  has  risen  io  a  warm  doth 
before  the  fire,  must  be  taken  out,  before  putting  in  the  <»ir- 
rants,  to  cover  the  top  of  the  cake,  as  well  as  for  the  bottom. 
Both  the  paste  for  the  top  and  bottom  must  be  rolled  rather 
thin,  and  wetted  with  rose* water ;  but  it  may  be  closed  either 
at  the  bottom,  on  the  side,  or  in  the  middle,  as  it  shall  seem 
best.     Prick  the  top  and  sides  with  a  small  long  pin ;  and, 
when  the  cake  is  ready  to  go  into  the  oven.  Cut  it  with  a  knife, 
in  the  midst  of  tbe  side,  an  inch  deep  all  round ;  and,  if  it  b^ 
of  the  size  thus  directed,  it  must  stand  two  hours  in  a  brisk 
oven. 


9M  DOMESTIC  COOKKRT. 

Plmn  Pound  Cake. 

Beat  one  pound  of  batter  to  a  cream,  and  work  it  well  to« 
gether  with  one  pound  of  sifted  sugar,  till  quite  smooth;  beat 
up  nine  eggs,  and  put  them  by  degrees  to  the  batter,  and  beat 
them  for  twenty  minutes ;  mix  in  lightly  one  pound  of  flour  ; 
put  the  whole  into  a  hoop,  cased  with  paper,  on  a  baking  plate, 
and  bake  it  about  one  hour  in  a  moderate  oven. 

An  ounce  of  caraway  sc^eds  added  to  the  above,  will  make 
what  is  termed  a  Rich  Seed  Cake. 

Plwn  Pound  Cake. 

Make  a  cake  as  in  the  foregoing  receipt,  and  when  yoa 
have  beat  it,  mix  in  lightly  half  a  pound  of  currants,  two 
ounces  of  orange,  and  two  ounces  of  candied  lemon  peel  cot 
small,  and  half  a  nutmeg  grated. 

V^  g^>^  common  Phtm  Cakes. 
Mix  five  ounces  of  butter  in  three  pounds  of  dry  flour,  and 
&ve  ounces  of  fine  Lisbon  sugar;  add  six  ounces  of.currants^ 
washed  and  dried,  and  some  pimento,  finely  powdered.  Pot 
three  spoonfuls  of  yeast  into  a  Winchester  pint  of  new  milk 
warmed,  and  mix  into  a  light  dough  with  the  above.  Make  it 
into  twelve  cakes,  and  bake  on  a  floured  tin  half  an  hour. 

lAttk  Plum  Cakee  to  keep  long. 

Dry  one  pound  of  flour,  and  mix  with  six  ounces  of  finely 
pounded  sugar ;  beat  six  ounces  of  butter  to  a  cream,  and  add 
to  three  eggs,  well  beaten,  half  a  pound  of  currants  washed^ 
and  nicely  dried,  and  the  flour  and  sugar ;  beat  all  for  some 
time,  then  dredge  flour  on  tin  phtes,  and  drop  the  batter  on 
them  the  size  of  a  walnut.  If  properly  mixed,  it  will  be  IT  stiff 
paste.    Bake  in  a  brisk  oven. 

Common  Seed  Cake. 
Sift  two  and  a  half  pounds  of  flour,  with  half  a  poun^'V 
good  Lisbon  or  loaf  sugar,  pounded  into  a  pan  or  bowl, — make 
a  cavity  in  the  centre,  and  pour  in  half  a  pint  of  lakewanb 
milk,  and  a  table-spoonful  of  thick  yeast, — ^mix  the  milk  and 
yeast  with  enough  flour  to  make  it  as  thick  as  cream  (this  is 


I.' 

•I 


PA8TBT  AMD  CONFECTIONARY. 

caUad  aetting  a  sponge,)  let  it  by  in  a  warm  place  fiir  one  hour 
—in  the  mean  time,  melt  to  an  oil  half  a  pound  of  fireah  bnttrry 
and  add  it  to  the  other  ingredients,  with  one  ounce  of  caraway 
seeds,  and  enough  of  milk  to  make  it  of  a  middling  stiffness ; 
—line  a  hoop  with  paper,  well  rubbed  over  with  butter— put  in 
the  mixture— set  it  some  time  to  prove  in  a  stove,  or  before  the 
fire,  and  bake  it  on  a  plate  about  an  hour,  in  rather  a  hot  oven. 
"When  done,  rub  the  top  over  with  a  paste  brush  dipped  in 
milk. 

A  cheap  Seed  Cake. 

Mixaquarter  of  apeckof  flour  with  half  apoundof  sugar^ 
a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  allspice,  and  a  little  ginger ;  melt  three 
quarters  of  a  pound  of  butter,  with  half  a  pint  of  milk :  when 
juat  warm,  put  to  it  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  yeast,  and  work  up 
to  a  good  dough.  Let  it  stand  bdTore  the  fire  a  few  minntea 
befinreit  goes  to  the  oven;  add  seeds  or  cuirants,  and  bake  an 
hour  and  a  half. 

dnmnmi  Bread  Cakee. 

Take  the  quantity  of  a  quartern  loaf  from  the  dough,  when 
inaking  white  bread,  and  knead  well  into  it  two  ounces  of  but- 
ter, two  of  Lisbon  sugar,  and  eight  of  currants.  Warm  the 
butter  in  a  tea-cupful  of  good  milk. 

By  the  addition  of  an  ounce  of  butter  or  sugar,  or  an  egg 
or  two,  you  may  make  the  cake  the  better.  A  tea-cupful  of 
raw  cream  improves  it  much.  It  is  best  to  bake  it  in  a  pan 
rather  than  as  a  loaf,  the  outside  being  less  hard. 

Queen  Cfikee. 
Jl'ake  a  pound  each  of  dried  and  sifted  flour,  beaten  and 
aifted  loaf  sugar,  and  fine  fresh  butter  washed  in  rose  or  orange- 
flower  water.  Four  the  water  firom  the  butter ;  squeeae  it  well 
in  the  hand;  and  work  it,  by  very  small  bits  at  a  tune,  with 
teir  the  flour  and  six  yolks  but  only  four  whites  of  eggs, 
beaten  wdl  together,  and  mixed  with  the  butter.  Then  work 
in  the  rest  of  the  flour  and  the  sugar ;  adding  three  spoonfUa 
of  orange-flower  water,  a  little  beaten  mace,  and  a  pound  of 
nicely  picked  and  dried  currants.    The  pans  must  be  well 


t 


40Q  DOMESTIC  OOOKERT. 

battered,  tilled  hatf  fall,  have  a  Kttk  doaUe  refined  ngar 
sifts^  orer,  and  be  set  in  ■  qaick  oVen. 

Am!  ^remhay  Cuket. 
TAe>  s  pound  of  flowr,  tbree-quarten  of  «  poond  of  butter, 
five  ounces^  of  fnwdered  loaf  sngW,  a  dram  of  beaten  dnaa- 
mon,  nvd  two  eggs.  Mix  it  alt  cold  ;  breaking  the  butter  in 
pieces  with  tiie  hand,  and  working  the  whole  into  *  light  paste. 
Then  roll  it  out  thin  enough  for  an  ounce  weiglit  of  theposte 
to  make  a  cake  as  large  as  the  top  of  a  breakfast-cup  or  basin, 
with  which  it  may  be  cot  into  shapes.  The  papers  on  which 
tbecakea  are  lakt  mast  be  buttered  aU  over.  At  Shrewsbury, 
tke  Cakes,  wben  Dwde,  are  marked  at  the  top  with  a  new  Urgv- 
loothed  horn  comb.  Tfaey  are  then  put  into  a  quick  bat  net 
too  hot  oven,  »  they  are  veiy  a^  to  bum;  and  are  baked 
almoita«&$taatliey  ctmbeput  in  with  a  slice.  AatfaeyriteiQ 
the  oven,  they  maat  be  pricked  with  a  bodkin.  It  is  neeesdnry 
to  be  very  quick,  that  they  may  neither  bum  nor  look  brown. 
If  they  are  but  just  hard,  it  is  quite  sufficient.  Particular 
caution  must  be  used  in  drawii^  them  out  of  the  oven,  as  well 
as  in  taking  them  off  the  paper;  they  being  extremely  brittle, 
and  soon  broken  to  pieces.  The  above  quantity  of  paste,  made 
into  large  and  very  thin  cakes,  makes  two  dozen ;  but  some  cut 
them  with  wine  glasses,  and  make  them  a  little  thicker.  A 
blade  or  two  of  beaten  mace,  may  be  put  in  with  the  cinnamon, 
and  also  a  little  rose  or  orange-flower  water. 

Tunbridge  Cakei. 
Rub  six  ounces  of  butter  quite  fine  into  a  pound  of  flour, 
then  mix  six  ounces  of  sugar,  beat  and  strain  two  eggs,  and 
make  with  the  above  into  a  paste.  Holl  it  very  thin,  and  cut 
with  the  top  of  a  g'Vags;  prick  fltenf  with  a  fork,  and  cover  with 
l:Brawi^g,  or  wa^  with  ttie  White  of  axi  flgg,  and  dust  a  little 
vAAXK  sugur  over. 

Mix  ten  ounces  of  gronnd  rice,  three  ounces  of  flour,  eight 

ounces  of  pounded  sogar ;  then  sift  by  dl^ees  into  right  yolh 

d  m  whites  of  e^s,  and  Hhe  peel'  of  a  lemon  sbtetl  so  line  that 

is  quite  msshed ;  mix  the  wftole  well  in  b  tin  sCew-paA'  ovtfr 


PASTRY  AND  OONFBCTIOyARY.  401 

ft  very  slow  fire  with  a  wl^isk^  then  put  iiimmeduteiy  iaio  th» 
oven  in  the  same^  and  bake  forty  nunutea. 

Genuine  Bristol  Cakis. 

The  following,  we  are  assured^  is  the  true  method  of 
making  tl^e  celebrated  Bristol  cakes. — Mix  half  a  pound  of  the 
finest  sifled  wheat  flour  with  a  quarter  of  a  pound  each  of 
pounded  and  sifted  loaf  sugar  and  fresh  butter^  and  four  yolks 
with  two  whites  of  eggs.  l^Iaving  well  united  the  whole  togpe* 
ther  in  a  bowl  or  pan, — which  is  usually  done,  at  Bristol,  with 
the  hand  only --add  half  a  pound  of  nicely  picked  currants^ 
and  stir  them  well  also  in  the  mixture.  Haying,  in  the  mean 
time,  rubbed  over  a  large  piate  of  tin  with  butter,  drop  on  it 
the  mixture  for  forming  each  cake,  from  a  taUe-spoon,  and  set 
it  in  a  brisk  oven,  taking  great  care  that  they  do  not  remain 
long  enough  to  bum. 

Portugal  Cakes. 

Take  a  pound  each  of  the  finest  dried  and  sifted  flour,  pon- 
dered and  sifted  loaf  sugar,  and  the  best  fresh  butter.  Mix 
them  up,  with  the  hand,  to  a  very  fine  batter ;  and,  adding 
two  table-spoonfuls  each  of  rose-water  and  white  wine,  half  a 
pound  of  washed  and  nicely  picked  Currants,  and  a  little  beaten 
mace,  whisk  up  the  yolks  often  eggs  with  the  whites  of  six,  incor- 
porate the  whole  well  together,  butter  the  tin  hoops  or  moulds, 
fill  them  little  more  than  half  full,  sifl  a  little  sugar  over  each 
eake,  and  bake  them  in  a  brisk  oven.  If  the  currants  are 
omitted,  as  is  often  done,  they  will  keep  good  half  a  year.  A 
superior  sort  is  sometimes  made,  by  substituting  a  pound  of 
blanched  almonds  beaten  up  with  rose-water  for  the  pound  df 
flour. 

Heart  Cakes, 

These  are  made  exactly  in  the  same  way  as  the  Portugal 
cikes,  either  with  or  without  currants ;  the  sole  difference  con- 
sisting in  the  size  and  shape  of  the  moulds,  which  are  only  to 
be  about  half  filled.     The  wine  may  be  omitted  in  either. 

Fiju  Ginger  Cakes  /or  Cold  Weather. 
Btf^k  three  eggs  in  a  basin ;  beat  U)em  well,  and  add  half 
a  pint  of  «ream,  which  must  also  be  well  beaten  with  them, 
15  8  F 


402  DOMESTIC  (^OOKBRT. 

and  the  whole  put  into  a  sance-pan  over  the  fire,  to  be  stirred 
till  it  gets  warm.  Then  add  a  pound  of  butter,  with  halF  a 
pound  of  loaf  sugar,  and  two  ounces  and  a  half  of  ginger, 
both  powdered  ;  carefully  stirring  the  different  ingredients  to- 
gether, over  a  very  moderate  fire,  just  to  melt  all  the  butter. 
This  being  done,  pour  it  in  the  central  cavity  of  two  pounda 
of  fine  flour,  and  make  up  a  good  paste.  Roll  it  out,  without 
any  flour  beneath,  on  the  dresser,  of  whatever  thickness  may- 
be thought  proper,  and  cut  the  cakes  to  shape  with  the  top  of  a 
small  basin  or  large  breakfast  cup.  They  are  usually  made 
about  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  laid  on  three  papers,  and 
baked  in  a  hot  oven.  These  cakes  are  not  only  very  pleasant 
to  the  palate,  particularly  in  the  winter,  but  really  serviceable 
to  a  cold  stomach. 

Ftne  French  Macaroons. 

Beat  finely,  in  a  marble  mortar,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
blanched  almonds^  with  four  spoonfuls  of  orange-flower  water, 
and  whisking  to  a  froth  the  whites  of  four  eggs,  mix  that  and 
a  pound  of  sifled  loaf  sugar  to  such  a  fine  paste  as  will  drop 
well  from  the  ^)oon ;  then  put  a  sheet  or  two  of  wafer  paper 
on  the  tin,  and  drop  on  it  at  proper  distances  the  little  cakes, 
in  the  usual  small  oval  forms.  They  must  be  baked  in  a  brisk 
oven,  very  brown  and  crisp,  but  with  the  greatest  possible  care 
not  to  bum  them. 

Common  Macaroons. 

Pound,  but  not  very  finely,  six  ounces  of  blanched  almonds, 
and  mix  them  with  half  a  giU  of  water  and  the  whisked  whites 
of  two  or  three  eggs.  Then  add  six  ounces  of  Lisbon  sugar, 
make  the  whole  up  into  a  proper  paste,  drop  them  with  a  spoon 
on  wafer  paper  laid  over  the  baking  wire,  and  sift  a  little  sugar 
on  them.  As  these  macaroons  are  to  be  eaten  moist,  they  .must 
only  be  baked  till  they  are  of  a  fine  broivn  colour.  When  dones, 
the  wafer  paper  at  the  bottom  and  sides  of  each  cake  is  to  be 
left  on,  and  the  rest  carefully  cut  away. 

Raspberry  Cakes. 
With  the  fruit  which  is  used  for  making  vinegar,  excellent 
rupberry  cakes  are  readily  made  up,  by  mixing  the  fruit  left 


PASTRY  AN]>  COMFBCTIOITART.  409 

with  somewliAt  more  than  its  own  weight  of  powdered  loaf 
sugar,  forming  it  into  small  round  cake9,  sifting  a  little  pow- 
dered anipir  on  the  top  of  eacfa>  and  drying  them  sufficiently  in 
an  oven  or  stove* 

An  Aknpnd  Cak€» 

Take  a  pound  and  a  quarter  of  flour,  make  a  hole  in  the 
middle,  put  in  a  piece  of  butter  half  the  size  of  a  hen^s  egg, 
four  eggs  well  beaten,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  sugar  powdered, 
fine,  six  ounces  of  almonds  blanched  and  .beat  with  orange--' 
flower  water,  and  a  little  salt.  Mix  "the  whole  well  together, 
gbue  it  over  \vith  the  yolk  of  egg,  and  bake  it  on  a  tin  well 
battered. 

Currant  Cakes. 

Dry  well  before  the  fire  a  pound  and  a  half  of  fine  flour, 
take  a  pound  of  butter,  half  a  pound  of  fine  loaf  sugar  well 
beaten  and  sifted,  four  yolks  of  eggs,  four  spoonfuls  of  rose- 
water,  the  same  of  sack,  a  little  mace,  and  a  nutmeg  grated* 
Beat  the  eggs  well,  and  put  them  to  the  rose-water  and  sack. 
Then  put  to  them  the  sugar  and  butter.  Work  them  all  to- 
gether,  strew  in  the  currants  and  flour,  having  taken  care  to 
have  them  ready  warmed  for  mixing.  Make  six  or  eight 
cakes  of  them  ;  but  mind  to  bake  them  of  a  fine  brown,  and 
pretty  crisp. 

Savoy  Cak€,  &r  Sponge  Cake  in  u  Mould. 

Take  nine  eggs,  their  weight  of  sugar,  and  six  of.  flour, 
some  grated  lemon,  or  a  few  drops  of  essence  of  lemon,  and 
half  a  gill  of  orange-flower  water,— work  them  as  in  the  last 
receipt ;— *pnt  in  the  orange-flower  water  when  you  take  it  from 
the  lire;— be  very  careful  the  mould  is  quite  dry;  rub  it  aU 
over  the  insid^with  butter,— put  soom  pounded  sugar  round 
the  mould  upon  the  butter,  and  shake  it  well  to  get  it  out  of 
the  crevices :-— tie  a  slip  of  paper  round  the  mould,  fill,  it  three 
parts  full  with  the  mi^tore,  and  bake  it  one  hour  in  a  alack 
oven ; — when  dont,  let  it  stand  for  a  few  minutes,  and  take  il 
from  the  mould,  which  may  be  done  by  shaking  it  a  little» 


I 

J 


Katafia  Cakes, 

Take  half  a  pound  of  sweet  almonds/ the  same  Quantity  of 
bitter;  blanch  and  beat  them  fine  in  orange,  tbde^'^vr  clear 
water,  to  keep  them  from  oiling ;  pound  and  sift  a  pound  cyf 
fine  sugar ;  mix  it  with  your  almonds ;  have  ready,  very  well 
beat,  the  whites  of  four  eggs;  mix  them  lightly  with  the 
i^onds  and  sugar ;  put  it  in  a  preserving  pai^,  and  set  them 
in  a  moderate  fire  ;  keep  stirring  it  quiok  one  way  until  it  is 
pretty  hot ;  when  it  is  a  little  cool,  roll  it  in  small  rolls>  and 
cut  it  in  thin  cakes ;  dip  your  hands  in  ilour  and  shake  them  on 
it ;  give  them  each  a  light  tap  with  your  finger ;  put  them  on 
sugar  papers,  and  sift  a  little  fine  sugar  over  them  just  as  jou 
are  putting  them  into  a  slow  oven. 

Diet  Bread  Cake, 

Boil,  in  half  a  pint  of  water,  one  pound  and  a  half  of  lump 
fifugar,--have  ready  one  pint  of  eggs,  three  parts  yolks,  in  a 
pan  ;  pour  in  the  sugar,  and  whisk  it  quick  till  cold,  or  about 
a  quarter  of  an  hour ;  then  stir  in  two  pounds  of  sifted  fiour, 
(lase  the  insides  of  square  tins  with  white  paper,  fill  them  three 
parts  full,  sift  a  little  sugar  over,  and  bake  it  in  a  warm  oven, 
and  while  hot  remove  them  from  the  moulds.    . 

Crack-nuts. 

Mix  eight  ounces  of  flour,  and  eight  ounces  of  sugar ;  melt 
four  ounces  of  butter  in  two  spoonfuls  of  raisin  wine:  then, 
with  four  eggs  beaten  and  strained,  make  into  a  paste ;  add 
caraways,  roll  out  is' thin  as  paper,  cat  with  the  top  of  a  glass, 
wash  with  the  white  of  an  egg,  and  dust  sugar  over. 

bkof  Wight  Crqeknels. 
Thisrifieculiar  Idnd  of  cakes  is  said  to  have  originated  in  the 
Isle  of  Wight,  whkh  still  preserves  its  reputation  for  them. 
They  ase  made,  in  sevetal  difi)erent  ways,  of  which  the  follow- 
ing^ is  certainly  one  of  the  very  best. — Sift  a  quart  of  the  finest 
dry  floUr ;  and  beating  up  the  yeUcs  of  four  eggs,  with  a  littk 
grated  nutmeg,  some  powdered  loaf  suga^r^  and  half  a  gill  of 
orttige-flower  o^fose-water,  |»eur  it  into  the  floor,  staA  make  np 
a  stiff  paste.  Then  mix,  and  roll  in,  by  slow  degrtes,  a 
pound  of  butter;   and,   when  thoroughly  united  in  a  soft 


PASTRY  iAND  CONFECTIONARY.  40** 

flexible  pMe,  and  r6tl^  ottt  to  a  pfo^  thickness^  which  k 
albbut  the  ti^ird  pari  of  aii  inch,  cut  it  ^to  roimd  cracknel 
shapes,  thFOW  them  into  boiling  water^  and  let  them  oontinae 
to  boil  in  it  till  they  swim  on  the  surface.  They  must  then  be 
taken  out,  and  plunged  in  cold  water  to  harden ;  afler  which, 
tbey  ait  to  be  slowly  dried,  washed  oyer  with  well  beaten' whites 
fl€  eggs,  and  bsdced  on  fin  plates,  in  an  oven  sufficiently  brisk ' 
to  make  them  crisp,  bnt  not  by  any  means  high-coloured. 

Excellent  faraway  KUin^i  W%ig$y  Bmna,  or  Cakes. 

Rub  half  a  pound  of  new  butter,  fresh  from- the  chnm,  in 
.  two  quarts  of  fine  dried  and  sifted  flour ;  then  adding  a  quarter 
of  a  pound  of  caraway  comfits,  beat  up  two  yolks  of  eggB, 
thiee  tablep-spoonfuls  of  ale  yeast,  widi  a  little  ealt,  and  put 
liiem  also  to  the  flour;  adding  a  pint'or  more  of  new  milk,  and 
Etii>riiig  the  whole  tdgedier  a^if  ivfteiid^  fora  shigle  large  cake. 
The  paste  must  be  equally  weH  wbtkej,  and  beat  till  it  learea 
the  'hand ;  when  it  should '  be  set  befbi^  the  fire,  to  rise,  'for 
libout  half  an  hour.  In  the  mean  time,  having  ready  a  quarter 
of  a  pound  of  finely  powdered  and  sifted  loaf  sugar,  roll  pieces 
of  the  paste  well  among  it,  make  theot  up  in  the  shape  of  either 
whigs  or  buns,  place  them  on  tins,  dust « little  ^gar  over  them, 
and  set  them  in  the  oven.  They  may  be  teten  hot  or  cold ; 
apd  are  esteemed  very  good,  when  toasted,  for  tea.  The 
whigs  or  buns  are  sometimes  made  with  plain  caraway  seeds, 
instead  of  comfits :  and,  sometimes,  the  paste  thus  formed  is 
made  into  a  single  seed  cike,  foi:  which  it  is  equally  well  adapt- 
ed, whether  with  comfits  or  plain  caraway  seeds. 

Barhadaet  JumbMs. 

Beat  very  light  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  and  the  whites  of 
eight,  with  a  spoonftrt  of  rose-water,  and  dust*  in  a  pound  of 
treble^refined  sugar,  then  put  in  three  quarters  cf  a  pound  of 
the  best  fine  flour ;  stir  it  lightly  in,  grease  your  tin  sheets,  and 
drop  them  in  the  shape  of  a  macaroon,  and  bake  them  nicely. 

Biscuit  Drops, 

Beat  well  together  in  ia  pan  one  pound  of  sifted  sugar  with 
cigltkt  eggs  for  twenty  minutes ;  then  add  a  quarter  of  an  ounce 
of  caraway  seed,  and  one)  pound  and  a  quarter  of  flour ;— lay 


406  JOOfifBSTIC  COOKBRY. 

wafer  paper  on  a  baking  plate, — put  the  mixture  into  a  biseuic 
funnel,  and  drop  it  out  on  the  paper  about  the  aise  of  half  m, 
crown^  sift  sugar  over,  and  bake  them  in  a  hot  oven. 

j4  Biscuit  Cake. 

One  pound  of  flour,  five  eggs,  well  beaten  and  atramed* 
eight  ounces  of  sugar,  a  little  rose  or  orange-flower  water;  beat 
the  whole  thoroughly,  and  bake  one  hour. 

American  Pot- Ash  Cakes  or  Biscuits. 

This  curious  article,  though  at  present  unknown  in  England, 
will  probably  become  as  common  here,  after  a  fair  trial,  as  it 
has  long  been  in  America.  Pot-ash  cake  or  biscuit  is,  indeed,  both 
easily  a^d  cheaply  made,  and  agreeable,  wholesome,  and  even 
nutritious,  when  it  is  made ;   the  method  of  doing  which   is 
simply  as  follows. — Take  a  pound  of  flour,  and  mix  with  it 
a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter :  then,  having  dissolved  and 
well  stirred  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  sugar  in  half  a  pint  of 
milk;  and  made  a  solution  of  about  half  a  tea-spoonful  of  salt 
of  tartar,  crystal  of  soda,  or  any  other  purified  pot-ash,  in  half 
a  tea-cupful  of  coki  water ;  pour  them,  also,  among  the  flour, 
work  up  the  paste  to  a  good  consistence,  roll  it  out,  and  form 
it  into  cakes  or  biscuits.     The  lightness  of  these  cakes  depend- 
ing much  on  the  expedition  with  which  they  are  baked,  they 
should  be  set  in  a  brisk  oven. 

Ginger  Cakes. 

With  four  pounds  of  flour,  mix  four  ounces  of  ginger, 
powdered  very  fine ;  heap  them  in  a  dish,  and  make  a  hole  in 
the  middle  :  then  beat  six  eggs  and  put  them  into  a  sauce-pan, 
with  a  pint  of  cream,  two  pounds  of  butter,  and  a  pound  of 
powdered  sugar.  Stir  them  tctgether  over  a  slow  fire  till  the 
butter  is  entirely  melted,  and  then  pour  it  to  the  flour  and  gin- 
ger. Make  it  up  into  a  paste,  and  roll  it  out  till  it  is  about  a 
quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  then  cut  it  into  cakes  with  the  top  of 
a  cup  or  glass.     They  must  be  baked  in  a  very  hot  oven. 

Gingerbread. 

Mix  with  two  pounds  of  flour,  half  a  pound  of  treacle,  three 
quarters  of  an  ounce  of  caraways,  one  ounce  of  ginger  finely 


PASTRY  AND  CONFECTIONARY.  407 

lifted^  and  eight  oanoes  of  butter.  Roll  the  paste  into  what 
form  yoa  please,  and  bake  on  tins,  after  having  worked  it  very 
much,  and  kept  it  to  rise. 

Another  sort. — To  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  treacle  beat 
one  egg  strained ;  mix  four  ounces  of  brown  sugar,  half  an 
ounce  of  ginger  sifted ;  of  cloves,  mace,  allspice,  and  nutmeg, 
a  quarter  of  an  ounce,  beaten  as  fine  as  possible ;  coriander  and 
caraway  seeds,  each  a  quarter  of  an  ounce :  melt  one  pound 
of  butter,  and  mix  with  the  above ;  and  add  as  much  flour  as 
will  knead  into  a  pretty  stiff  paste ;  then  roll  it  out,  and  cut 
into  cakes.  Bake  on  tin  plates  in  a  quick  oven.  A  little  time 
will  bake  them.— Of  some,  drops  may  be  made. 

A  good  plain  sort  of  Gingerbread- 
Mix  three  pounds  of  flour  with  half  a  pound  of  butter,  four 
ounces  of  brown  ^ugar,  half  an  ounce  of  pounded  ginger;  then 
make  into  a  paste  with  one  pound  and  a  quarter  of  treacle  warm. 

-Gingerbread  wiihoui  Butter. 

Mix  two  pounds  of  treacle ;  of  orange,  lemon,  and  citron 
and  candied  ginger,  each  four  ounc^,  all  thinly  sliced;  one 
ounce  of  coriander  seeds,  one  ounce  of  caraways,  and  one 
ounce  of  beaten  ginger,  in  as  much  flour  as  will  make  a  soft 
paste ;  lay  it  in  cakes  on  tin  plates,  and  bake  it  in  a  quick  oven. 
Keep  it  dry  in  a  covered  earthen  vessel,  and  it  will  be  good  for 
some  months. 

Best  Dutch  Gingerbread. 

Take  four  pounds  of  flour,  and  mix  with  it  two  ounces  and 
a  half  of  beaten  ginger.  Then  rub  in  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
butter ;  and  add  two  ounces  of  caraway  seeds,  two  ounces  of 
dried  orange  peel  rubbed  to  powder,  a  few  bruised  coriander 
seeds,  a  little  candied  citron,  and  two  eggs.  Make  the  whole 
into  a  stiff  paste  with  two  pounds  and  a  quarter  of  treacle ; 
beat  it  very  well  with  a  rolling  pin,  and  make  it  up  into  thirty 
cakes.  Prick  them  with  a  fork ;  butter  papers,  three  double, 
one  white  and  two  brown,  to  place  them  on ;  wash  them  over 
with  the  white  of  an  egg ;  and  put  them  into  a  very  moderately 
heated  oven  for  three  quarters  of  an  hour.  In  a  country  like 
Holland,  where  the  success  of  a  lover  with  his  mistress  is  said. 


{106  DOMBfiTIC  COOKBRY. 

by  a  late  celebrated  tourist,  to  depend  on  the  quantity  of  gin-^ 
gerbread  which  he  carries  in  his  ppck^t^  thi^  may  be  supposec} 
to  form  no  inconsiderable  article  of  manufacture. 

Orange  Gingerbread. 

Sift  two  pounds  and  a  quarter  of  fine  flour,  and  ^d.  to  it 
a  pound  and  three  quarters  of  treacle^  six  ounces  of  candied 
orange  peel  cut  small,  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  moist  augar# 
one  ounce  of  ground  ginger^  and  one  ounce  of  .allspice :  melt 
to  an  oil  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  butter,*— mix  the  whole 
well  together,  and  lay  it  by  for  twelve  hovrs^r-roll  It  out  with 
as  Uttle  flour  a9  possible  about  half  an  in/ch  thick,  cut  it  into 
pieces  three  inches  long  and  two  wide, — mark  them  in  the  form 
of  chequers  vridi  the  back  of  a  knife,  put  them  on  a  bakings 
plate  about  a  quarter  of  an  inch  apart, — rub  them  over  with  a 
brush  dipped  into  the  yolk  of  an  egg  beat  up  with  a  tea^upful 
of  milk,  bake  it  in  a  cool  oven  about  a  quarter  of  ^xi  hour ; — 
when  done,  wash  them  slightly  over  again,— divide  the  pieces 
•with  a  knife,  (as  in  baking  they  will  run  together.) 

Gifigeyir^ad  Nuts. 

To  two  pounds  of  sifted  i9our,  put  two  pounds  oi  treacle, 
three  quarters  of  a .  pound  of  moist  sugar^  half  a  pound  of 
candied  orange  peel  cut  small,  one  ounce  and  a  half  of  ground 
ginge^j  one  ounce  of  ground  allspic^,  earay^aySj  and  oorianders 
mixed,  and  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  butter  oiled;  mix  all 
well  together,  and  set  it  by  some  time,— then  roll  it  out  in 
pieces  about  the  siae  ef  a  small  walnut,— lay  them  in  rows  on 
H  baking  plat^,  press  them  fiat  with  the  hand,  and  bake  them 
in  a  slow  oven  about  ten  minutes. 

Rich  Sweetmeat  Gingerh'ead  Nuts, 
Put  a  pound  of  good  treacle  in  a  basin,  and  pour  over  it  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  clarified  butter,  or  fresh  butter  melted  so 
as  not  to  oil.  Stir  the  whole  well,  while  mixing ;  and  then 
add  an  ounce  each  of  candied  orange  peel,  and  candied  ange^ 
lica,  a  quarter  of  an  ouncje  of  preserved  lemon  peel,  all  cnjb 
into  very  minute  pieces,  but  not  bruised  or  pounded ;  with  half 
an  ounce  of  pounded  coriander  seeds,  and  half  an  oiince  of 
whole  caraway  seeds.   Having  mixed  them  thoroughly  together. 


PASTET  AND  CONFECTIONARY.  409 

break  in  an  egg,,  and  work  tke  whole  up  with  as  mach  flour  as 
may  be  nec^aary  to  form  a  fine  paste ;  which  is  to  be  made 
into  nuts  of  any  siae,  put  on  the  bare  tin  plate^  and  set  in  rather 
abriakoyen. 

Ratafia  Drop  Biscuits, 

These  macaroons^  or  dr<^  biscuits^  may  be  made  either  like 
the  French  or  common  macaroons ;  by  only  substituting,  for 
half  the  quantity  of  sweet  blanched  ahnonds,  an  equal  quantity 
of  bitter  ones.  Tt  is  likewise  not  uncommon,  by  way  of  dis- 
tinction, to  make  them  of  a  round,  and  more  elevated  form 
than  the  flat  and  oval  shape  of  the  macaroons  properly  so  call* 
ed.  Other  drop  biscuits  may  readily  be  piade,  by  similar  and 
obvious  substitutions  of  the  requisite  articles. 

Best  Naples  Biscuits. 

Put  a  pound  of  the  best  Lisbon  sugar  into  half  a  pint  of 
water,  with  a  small  wine-glassful  of  orange-flower  water,  and  boil 
them  till  the  sugar  is  entirely  melted.  Break  eight  eggs,  whisk 
them  well  together,  and  pour  the  syrup  boiling  hot  on  the  eggs ; 
whiskiiy  all  the  while  of  pouring  it  in,  and  till  the  mixture 
becomes  quite  cold.  Then  lightly  mix  with  a  pound  of  fine 
sifted  floor,  and  put  three  sheets  of  paper  on  the  baking  plate ; 
make  the  edges  of  one  sheet  stand  up  nearly  two  inches  high, 
pour  into  it  the  batter,  sift  some  powdered  loaf  sugar  over  the 
top,  and  set  it  in  the  oven,  where  it  must  be  closely  attended,  or 
it  will  soon  bum  at  the.  top.  Wheii  carefully  baked,  let  it 
stand  till  cold  in  the  paper ;  afterwards  wet  the  bottom  of  the 
paper,  till  it  comes  easily  off.  The  biscuits  may  then  be  cut 
into  whatever  siae  is  most  agreeable.  Indeed,  if  it  should  be^ 
preferred,  the  batter  may  be  at  first  filled  into  small  tins,  and 
so  baked  separately ;  but  this  is  seldom  done. 

Excellent  Biscuits  far  Cordials. 

Take  the  weight  of  five  eggs  in  sugar,  and  the  same  in 
floor :  put  the  sugar  into  a  pan,  with  the  fresh  peel  of  a  lemon 
shred  fine ;  some  crisped  orange-flowers,  shred  fine  also ;  and 
the  yolks  of  five  eg^  Beat  them  together,  till  the  sugar  is 
well  mingled  with  the  eggs;  then  stir  in  the  flour,  and  beat  the 
whole  together:  beat  the  whites  of  the  five  eggs  kept  apart, 
15  9  a 


410  DOMESTIC  COOKBRY. 

till  they  rise  in  froth,  and  then  mingle  them  with  the  BOgar  and 
floar.  Have  ready  some  white  paper  made  into  the  form  o£ 
small  trenches,  each  about  the  depth  and  length  of  a  finger, 
rub  them  with  hot  butter,  and  then  put  two  spoonfuls  of  bis- 
cuit into  each  trench ;  throw  some  powder  sugar  over,  and  set 
them  in  a  mild  oven.  When  they  are  done  of  a  good  colour^ 
take  them  out  of  the  papers,  and  put  them  on  a  sieve,  in  a  dry 
place,  till  there  is  occasion  to  use  them. 

Fine  Light  Bigeuits. 

Put  the  yolks  of  Rve  eggs  into  a  pan,  with  a  few  crisped 
orange-flowers  and  the  peel  of  a  lemon,  both  shred  very  fine  ; 
add  also,  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  fine  loaf  sugar,  and 
beat  them  together  till  the  sugar  be  dissolved  and  well  mingled 
with  the  eggs.  Then  beat  the  whites  of  ten  eggs ;  and,  well 
frothed,  mix  it  with  the  sugar.  Stir  in  lightly,  by  degrees,  dz 
ounces  of  flour,  and  put  the  biscuits,  in  an  oblong  form,  on  some 
white  paper ;  sift  a  little  fine  sugar  over,  and  bake  them  in  an 
oven  moderately  heated.  These  biscuits,  when  properly  made, 
and  carefully  baked,  are  not  only  very  rich,  but  truly  delicious. 
It  is  easy,  by  varying  the  kind  of  sweetmeats,  or  addii^g  others, 
to  suit  every  palate. 

Chocolate  Biscuits, 

Break  six  eggs,  and  put  the  yolks  of  four  info  one  pan,  and 
the  whites  of  the  whole  six  into  another ;  add  to  the  yolks,  an 
ounce  and  a  half  of  diocolate,  bruised  very  fine,  with  six 
ounces  of  fine  sugar.  Beat  the  whole  well  together ;  and  then 
put  in  the  whites  of  six  eggs  whipped  to  a  firoth.  When  they 
are  well  mingled,  stir  in  by  little  and  little  six  ounces  of  flour, 
and  put  the  biscuits  on  white  paper,  or  in  small  paper  moulds, 
buttered ;  throw  over  a  little  fine  sugar ;  and  bake  them  in  an 
oven  moderately  heated. 

Sweet  and  Bitter  Aknond  Biscuits, 
They  are  of  two  sorts.  To  make  the  former,  take  a  quarter 
of  a  pound  of  sweet  almonds,  blanch  and  pound  them  fine  in  a 
mortar,  sprinkling  them  from  time  to  time  with  a  little  fine 
sugar;  then  beat  them  a  quarter  of  an  hour  with  an  ounce  of 
flour,  the  yolks  of  three  ^gs,  and  four  ounc^  of  fine  sugar. 


PASTRY  AND  CONFECTIONARY.  411 

adding  afterwards  the  whites  of  four  e^gs  whipped  to  a  froth. 
Have  ready  some  paper  moulds^  raade  like  boxes,  about  the 
length  of  two  fingers  square ;  butter  them  within,  and  put  in 
the  biscuits,  throwing  over  them  equal  quantities  of  flour  and 
powdered  sugar:  bake  them  in  a  cool  oven;  and,  when  done 
oC  a  good  colour,  take  them  out  of  the  papers.  Bitter  almond 
biscuits  are  made  in  the  same  manner ;  with  this  difference  onlj; 
that  to  every  two  ounces  of  bitter  almonds  must  be  added  afi 
ounce  of  sweet  almonds. 

Best  Savoy  Biscuits. 

Beat  up  twelve  eggs,  leaving  out  half  the  whites,  with  a 
small  whisk;  putting  in  two  or  three  spoonfuls  of  rose  or 
orange-flower  water,  with  a  pound  of  double^refined  powdered 
and  sifted  sugar,  while  whisking,  them.  When  the  whole  ap- 
pears as  thick  and  white  as  cream,  take  a  pound  and  two  ounces 
of  the  finest  and  driest  sifted  flour,  and  mix  it  in  with  a 
wooden  spoon.  Then  make  up  the  batter  into  long  cakes,  sift 
some  sugar  over  them,  and  put  them  into  a  coolish  oven,  or 
they  will  be  very  apt  to  scorch.  Common  Savoy  biscuits  are 
made  by  putting  in  the  whole  of  the  eggs,  and  leaving  out  the 
rose  or  orange-flower  water.  The  manner  of  forming  them  into 
shapes  of  about  four  inches  long,  and  half  an  inch  wide,  is  by 
pulling  along,  on  wafer  paper,  a  spoonful  of  batter  with  a  tea- 
spoon ;  pressing  down  the  batter,  at  the  same  time,  with  a 
finger.  They  must  be  well  watched,  while  baking ;  and,  when 
enough,  be  carefully  cut  off  while  hot. 

Delicate  Sponge  Biscuits* 

Break  the  whites  of  six  eggs  in  one  pan,  and  the  yolks  of 
them  in  another.  Beat  up  the  yolks  with  six  ounces  of  powder* 
ed  loaf  sugar,  and  a  very  little  orange-flower  water,  with  a 
wooden  spoon,  till  the  mass  blows  up  in  wind  bladders.  Whisk 
the  whites  excessively ;  and,  with  a  large  spoon,  lightly  put 
them  to  the  yolks  and  sugar,  stirring  ihe  latter  as  little  as  pos- 
sible, consistently  with  the  necessity  of  properly  uniting  them 
together.  Then  mix  well  with  the  whole  &ve  ounces  of  fine 
flour ;  and  put  the  batter  thus  made  into  tin  moulds  thoroughly 
buttered,  or  they  will  stick  too  fast  to  be  removed  when  baked. 
Before  setting  them  in  the  oven^  sift  over  the  tops  a  little  pow^ 


4li  DOMESTIC  COOKBRT. 

dered  sug:ar^  to  give  them  a  delicate  ice.  They  must  be  baked 
in  a  moderately  heated  oven  ;  and,  when  done,  taken  from  ihe 
tins  while  hot,  or  they  will  be  leas  readily  gotten  out. 

Plain  Bune. 

To  four  pounds  of  sifted  flour,  put  one  pound  of  g^ood 
moist  sugar,— -make  a  cavity  in  the  centre,  and  stir  in  a  gill  of 
good  yeast,  a  pint  of  lukewarm  milk,  with'  enough  of  th6  flour 
to  make  it  the  thickness  of  cream,— cover  it  over,  and  let  it  lie 
two  hours, ^ then  melt  to  an  oil  (but  not  hot)  one  pound  of 
butter,—- stir  it  into  the  other  ingredients,  with  enough  warm 
milk  to  make  it  a  soft  paste; — throw  a  little  flour  over,  and  let 
them  lie  ah  hour,— have  ready  a  baking  platter  rubbed  over  with 
butter, — mould  with  the  hand  the  dough  into  buns  about  the 
size  of  a  large  egg, — ^lay  them  in  rows  full  three  inched  apart, 
set  them  in  a  warm  place  for  half  an  hour,  or  till  they  have 
risen  to  double  their  size,-^bake  them  in  a  hot  oven  of  a  good 
colour,  and  wash  them  over  with  a  brush  dipped  into  milk  when 
drawn  f^om  the  oven« 

Richer  Bmu. 

Mix  one  pound  and  a  half  of  dried  flour  with  half  a  poutid 
of  sugar ;  melt  a  pound  and  two  ounces  of  butter  in  a  little 
warm  water ;  add  six  spoonfuls  of  rose-water ;  and  knead  the 
above  into  a  light  dough,  with  half  a  pmt  of  yeast ;  then  miy 
five  ounces  of  caraway  comfits  in,  and  put  some  on  them. 

Seed  Buns. 

Take  two  pounds  of  plain  bun  dough,  as  directed  for  plain 
butis>  and  mix  in  one  ounce  of  caraway  seeds, — butter  the 
insides  of  small  tart-JMins, — mould  the  dough  into  buns,  and 
put  one  in  each  pan, --set  them  to  rise  in  a  warm  place,  and 
when  sufficiently  proved,  ioe  them  with  the  white  of  an  egg 
beat  to  a  froth,  and  laid  on  with  a  paste-bru  A,  some  pounded 
sugar  upon 'that,  and  dissolve  it  with  water  splashed  fix>m  the 
brush: — bake  them  in  a  warm  oven  about  ten  minutes. 

Excellent  Bath  Bun$. 
Take  two  pounds  of  fine  flour,  a  pint  of  ale  yeast,  with 
a  glass  of  mountain  wine  and  a  little  orange-flower  water,  and 


FASTKT  ANd  COMPBCTIONARY.  4l8 

thre^  beaten  eggs ;  knead  the  whole  togetlier  vrith  some  warm 
cream,  a  little  nutmeg,  and  a  very  little  salt.  Lay  it  before  the 
fire  till  it  rises  very  light ;  and  then  knead  in  a  pound  of  fi^esh 
butter,  and  a  pound  of  large  round  caraway  or  Scotch  coinnts. 
Make  them  up  in  the  usual  form  of  buns,  or  any  other  sha^e 
or  size,  and  bake  them  on  floured  papers,  in  a  quick  oven. 
These  buns  are  truly  excellent ;  and,  by  leaving  out  the  com- 
fits, and  substituting  milk  for  the  cream,  and  mountain  wine, 
&c«  a  very  good,  cheap,  and  common  bun  may  be  easily  made, 

CHEESECAKES  AND  CUSTARDS. 

Excellent  Cheesecakes, 

Put  to  half  a  gallon  of  new  milk  about  the  third  part  of 
a  gill  of  rennet ;  and  set  it  near  the  fire,  to  hasten  its  turning. 
Drain  the  curd  thoroughly  from  the  whey,  put  it  on  the  badk 
of  a  sieve,  mix  into  it  at  least  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  fresh, 
butter,  and  rub  it  through  with  the  back  of  a  spoon  into  a 
basin  beneath.  Add  powdered  loaf  sugar  to  palate,  with  half 
an  ounce  of  sweet  and  half  a  dozen  bitter  blanched  and  pound- 
ed almonds,  a  little  candied  citron  and  orange  peel  in  small 
and  thin  slices,  half  a  fresh  lemon  peel  grated,  a  few  washed 
and  picked  currants,  and  a  small  glass  of  brandy.  Beat  up 
three  yolks  of  eggs ;  put  them  to  the  mixture ;  and^  having 
sheeted  the  pans  with  a  paste  composed  of  a  quarter  of  a  pound 
of  sifted  flour,  and  two  ounces  each  of  powdered  loaf  sugar 
and  fresh  butter,  then  lightly  mixed  with  cold  spring  water, 
and  rolled  out  of  a  proper  thickness,  fill  in  the  preparation,  set 
the  cheesecakes  in  a  brisk  oven,  and  bake  them  about  ten 
minutes. 

^  plainer  sort  of  Cheesecakes. 

Turn  three  quarts  of  milk  to  curd,  break  it,  and  drain  the 
whey  :  when  dry,  break  it  in  a  pan,  with  two  ounces  of  butter, 
tiU  perfectly  smooth ;  put  to  it  a  pint  and  a  half  of  thin  cream, 
or  good  milk,  and  add  sugar,  cinnamon>  nutmeg,  and  three 
ounces  of  currants. 

Lemon  Cheesecakes. 

Grate  the  rind  of  three,  and  take  the  juice  of  two  lemons, 
and  mix  them  with  three  sponge  biscuits,  six  ounces  of  fresh 


414 '  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

butter,  four  ounces  of  sifted  sugar,  a  little  grated  nutmeg,  and 
pounded  cinnamon,  half  a  gill  of  cream,  and  three  eggs  well 
beaten,  work  them  with  the  hand,  and  (ill  the  pans,  which 
must  be  sheeted  as  in  the  last  receipt  but  one  with  puff  paste, 
and  lay  two  or  three  slices  of  candied  leoKm  peel,  cut  thin, 
upon  the  top. 

Orange  Cheesecakes. 

To  be  made  in  the  same  waj,  omitting  the  lemons,  and 
lising  oranges  instead. 

Bread  Cheesecakes. 

Slice  a  penny  loaf  as  thin  as  possible,  then  pour  on  it  a  pint 
of  boiling  cream,  and  let  it  stand  two  hours.  Then  take  eight 
eggs,  half  a  pound  of  butter,  and  a  nutmeg  grated.  Beat  them 
well  together,  and  mix  them  into  the  cream  and  bread,  with 
half  a  pound  of  currants  well  washed  and  dried,  and  a  spoon- 
ful of  white  wine  or  brandy.  Bake  them  in  pattepans,  or 
raised  crust. 

Almond  Cheesecakes. 

Blanch  si!^  ounces  of  sweet  and  half  an  ounce  of  bitter 
almonds;  list  them  lie  half  an  hour  in  a  drying  stove,  or  before 
the  fire ;  pound  them  very  fine  in  a  mortar,  with  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  rose  or  orange  fiower-water,  to  prevent  them  finom 
oiling;  put  into  a  stew-pan  half  a  pound  of  fresh  butter,  put 
it  in  a  warm  place,  and  cream  it  very  smooth  with  the  hand, 
and  add  it  to  the  almonds,  with  six  ounces  of  sifted  loaf  sugar, 
a  little  grated  lemon  peel,  some  good  cream,  four  eggs, — rub  all 
well  together  with  the  pestle ;  cover  a  pattepan  with  puff  paste, 
fill  in  the  mixture,  ornament  it  with  slices  of  candied  lemon 

ft 

ped  and  almonds  split,  and  bake  it  half  an  hour  in  a  brisk  oven. 

Good  Potato  Cheesecakes, 

Beat  three  ounces  of  lemon  peel,  with  six  ounces  of  sugar, 
in  a  marble  mortar;  then  add  half  a  pound  of  nicely  1>oiled 
and  mashed  mealy  potatoes,  beating  the  whole  up  together  with 
six  ounces  of  butter  melted  in  cream,  and  mixing  two  ounces  of ' 
picked  and  dean  currants.  When  cold,  put  crust  in  pattepana ; 
fill  them  a  litde  more  than  half  full;  sift  over  them  a  little 


PASTRY  AND  CONFECTIONARY.  415 

double  refined  sugar ;  and  bake  them  f<Mr  about  half  an  hour  in 
a  quick  oven. 

DeUeate  Rice  Cheueeaket. 

Bail  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  rice  in  about  three  pints  of 
milk^  till  it  becomes  quite  tender;  then  put  in  four  eggs  well 
beaten,  half  a  pound  of  butter,  half  a  pint  of  cream^  six  ounces 
of  sugar,  and  a  little  rose-water,  with  some  grated  nutmeg, 
and  a  small  quantity  of  powdered  cinnamon.  Beat  the  whole 
together,  put  it  into  proper  raised  crusts  for  cheesecakes,  and 
bake  them  on  tin.  A  few  cleanly  picked  currants  may  be 
blended  with  the  other  ingredients,  and  some  also  put  in  a  glass 
of  brandy. 

Plain  Custards^ 

Put  a  quart  of  good  cream  over  a  slow  fire,  with  a  little 
cinnamon,  and  four  ounces  of  sugar.  When  it  has  boiled, 
take  it  off  the  fire,  beat  the  yolks  of  eight  eggs,  and  pat  to 
them  a  spoonful  of  orange-flower  water,  to  prevent  the  cream 
from  cracking.  Stir  them  in  by  degrees  as  your  cream  cools, 
put  the  pan  over  a  very  slow  fire,  stir  it  carefully  one  way  till  it 
is  almost  boiling,  and  then  pour  it  into  cups. 

Or  you  may  make  them  in  this  manner :— Take  a  quart  of 
new  milk,  sweeten  to  your  taste,  beat  qp  well  the  yolks  of 
eight  eggs  and  the  whites  of  four.  Stir  them  into  the  milk, 
and  bake  it  in  china  basins.  Or  put  them  into  a  china  dish, 
and  pour  boiling  water  round  them,  till  the  water  is  better  than 
half  way  up  their  sides :  but  take  care  tlie  water  does  not  boil 
too  fast,  lest  it  should  get  into  your  cups,  /and  spoil  your 
custards. 

Rich  Cuiiard. 

Boil  a  pint  of  milk  with  lemon  peel  and  cinnamon ;  mix  a 
pint  of  cream,  and  the  yolks  of  five  eggs  well  beaten;  when 
the  mil]L  tastes  of  the  seasoning,  sweeten  it  enough  for  the 
whole;  pour  it  into  the  cream,  stirring  it  well ;  then  giye  the 
custard  a  simmer  till  of  a  proper  thickness.  Do  not  let  it  boil ; 
stir  the  whole  time  one  way ;  season  as  above.  If  to  be  ex- 
tremely rich,  put  no  milk,  but  a  quart  of  cream  to  the  eggs. 


416  DQU  B8TIO  CI^OKBBT. 

CAeop  and  excettn^t  Cuitards. 

Boil  in  a  quart  of  milk  a  little  lemon  peel,  a  nnall  stick  oT 
cinnamon,  and  a  couple  of  laurel  leaves,  sweetened  with  a  fewr 
lumps  of  sugar ;  and,  rubbing  down  smoothly  two  table-spooii- 
fuls  of  rice  flour  in  a  small  basin  of  cold  milk,  mix  it  with  the 
beaten  yolk  of  a  single  egg.  Then  take  a  basin  of  the  boiling' 
milk ;  and,  well  mixing  it  with  the  contents  of  the  other  basin, 
pour  the  whole  into  the  remainder  of  the  boiling  milk,  and  keep 
stirring  it  all  one  way  till  it  begins  to  thicken  and  is  about  to 
boil.  It  must  then  be  instantly  taken  off,  and  put  into  a  pan  ; 
stirred  a  little  together ;  and  may  be  served  up,  either  together 
in  a  dish,  or  in  custard  cups,  to  be  eaten  hot  or  cold. 

Baked  Custard. 

Boil  in  a  pint  of  milk  a  few  coriander  seeds,  a  little  cin- 
namon,  and  lemon  peel;  sweeten  with  four  ounces  of  loaf  90g9t, 
and  mix  with  a  pint  of  cold  milk ;  beat  well  eight  eggs  for  ten 
minutes,  and  add  the  other  ingredients,  pour  it  from  one  ptai 
into  anodier  six  or  eight  times,  strain  it  through  a  sieve,  let  it 
stand  some  time,  skim  off  the  froth  from  the  top,  fill  it  in 
earthen  cups,  and  bake  them  immediately  in  a  hot  oven  to  give 
them  a  good  colour :  about  ten  minutes  will  do  them.       ' 

Bailed  Custard. 

Boil  in  a  pint  of  rnilk^  five  minutes,  lemon  peel,  corianders, 
and  cinnamon,  a  spiall  quantity  of  each,  half  a  dozen  of  bitter 
almonds  blanched  and  pounded,  and  four  ounces  of  loaf 
siigar :  mix  it  with  a  pint  of  cream,  the  yolks  of  ten  egg9, 
and  the  whites  of  six  well  beaten ;  pass  it  through  a  hair  sieve» 
stir  it  with  a  whisk  over  a  slow  fire  till  it  begins  to  thicken, 
remove  it  from  the  fire,  and  continue  to  stir  it  till  nearly  cold: 
add  two  table- spoonfuls  of  brandy,  fill  the  cups  or  glasses,  and 
grate  nutmeg  over. 

Almond  Custard. 

Blanch  and  beat  four  ounces  of  almonds  fine,  with  a  spoon-^ 
ful  of  water ;  beat  a  pint  of  cream  with  two  spoonMs  of  rose- 
water,  and  put  them  to  the  yolks  of  four  eggs,  and  as  much 
sugar  as  will  make  it  pretty  sweet;  then  add  the  almonds; 


PASTRY  AND  COKFECTIONABY.  41T 

9tir  it  all  over  a  slow  fire  till  it  is  of  a  proper  thickness^  but 
don't  boil.     Pour  it  into  cups. 

Lemon  Cus€ard$* 

Takie  half  a  pound  of  double  refined  aogar;  this  jiiic^  of 
Xwo  lemons,  the  rind  of  one  pared  very  thin,  the  inner  rind  oF 
one  boiled  vecy  tender,  and  rubbed  through  a  neve,  and  a  pini 
of  white  wine.  Let  them  boil  for  some  time,  then  take  out 
the  peeU  and  a  little  of  the  liquor^  and  set  it  to  cool.  Pour 
the  rest  into  the  dish,  you  intend  for  it,  beat  four  yolks  and  two 
iwhites  of  eg;gs,  and  mix  them  with  your  cool  liquor.  Strain 
them  into  your  dish,  stir  them  well  together,  and  set  them  on 
a  slow  fire  in  boilipg  water.  When  it  is  enough,  grate  the  rind 
of  a  lemon  on  the  top,  and  brown  it  over  with  a  hot  salaman- 
der.    This  may  be  eaten  either  hot  or  cold. 

Orange  Custards. 

Boil  very  tender  the  rind  of  half  a  Seville  orange,  and 
then  beat  it  in  a  mortar  till  it  is  very  fine.  Put  to  it  a  spoonful 
of  the  best  brandy,  the  juice  of  a  Seville  orange,  four  ounces 
of  Ipaf  sugar,  and  the  yolks  of  four  eggs.  Beat  them  all 
well  together  for  ten  minutes,  and  then  pour  in  by  degrees  a 
pint  of  boiling  cream.  Keep  beating  them  till  they  are  cold, 
then  put  them  in  custard  cups,  and  set  them  in  a  dish  of  hot 
water.  Let  them  stand  till  they  are  set,  then  take  them  out, 
and  stick  preserved  orange  on  the  top.  These,  like  the  former^ 
may  be  served  up  either  hot  or  cold. 

Rice  Custards. 

Put  a  blade  of  mace  and  a  quartered  nutmeg  into  a  quart 
of  cream  ;  boil  it,  then  strain  it,  and  add  to  it  some  whole  rice 
boiled,  and  a  little  brandy.  Sweeten  it  to  your  palate,  stir  it 
over  the  fire  till  it  thickens,  and  serve  it  up  in  cups,  or  a  dish. 
It  may  be  used  either  hot  or  cold. 

Beest  Custards. 

Set  a  pint  of  beest  over  the  fire,  with  a  little  cinnamon,  and 

three  bay  leaves,  and  let  it  be  boiling  hot.     Then  take  it  off, 

and  have  ready  mixed  a  spoonful  of  flour,  and  the  same  of 

thick  cream.     Pour  the  hot  beest  upon  it  by  degrees,  mix  it 

15  3h 


418  DOMESTIC  COOKBBT. 

^ell  tx^geiher,  and  sweeten  it  to  yoar  taste.    Xou  may  bake  it 
either  in  crust  or  cups. 

Gootebernf  Custard. 

Boil'  three  pints '  of  gooseberries  till  tender,  rub  diem 
through  a  hair  aieve,  and  beat  up  with  the  pulp  the  yolks  at 
five  eggs  and  the  whites  of  two;  adding  sugar  to  palate,  and 
two  table*spoonfuls  of  rose  or  orange-flower  water.  When 
thoroughly  mixed,  set  it  over  the  fire,  stirring  it  continually 
one  way  till  it  be  the  proper  consistency  for  a  custard.  It  must 
on  no  aooount  be  suffered  to  boil. 

CBBAM6,  JAMS,  AND  ICES. 

An  txeelknt  Cream. 

To  make  an  excellent  cream,  boil  half  a  pint  of  cream  and 
half  a  pint  of  milk  with  two  bay  leaves,  a  bit  of  lemon  peel^ 
a  few  almonds  beaten  to  paste,  with  a  drop  of  water,  a  litde 
sugar,  orange-flower  water,  and  a  tea-spoonful  of  flour  rubbed 
down  with  a  little  cold  milk.  When  the  cream  is  cold,  add  a 
little  lemon  juice,  and  serve  it  up  in  cups  or  lemonade  glasses. 
— For  a  superior  article,  whip  up  three  quarters  of  a  pint  of  very 
rich  cream  to  a  strong  froth,  with  some  finely-scraped  lemon- 
peel,  a  squeeze  of  the  juice,  half  a  glass  of  sweet  wine,  and 
sugar  to  make  it  pleasant,  but  not  too  sweet.  Lay  it  on  a 
sieve  or  in  a  form,  next  day  put  it  on  a  dish,  and  ornament  it 
with  very  light  puff  paste,  biscuits,  made  in  tin  shapes  the 
length  of  a  finger,  and  about  two  thick.  Fine  sugar  may  be 
sifted  over,  or  it  may  be  glazed  with  a  little  isinglass.  ^  Maca* 
roons  may  be  used  to  line  the  edges  of  the  dish. 


Burnt 

'  Boil  e  pint  of  cream  with  a  stick  of  cinnamon,  and  some 
lemon-peel ;  take  it  off  the  fire,  and  pour  it  very  slowly  into 
the  yolks  of  four  eggs,  stirring  till  half-cold;  sweeten,  and 
take  out  the  spice,  Sec;  pour  it  into  the  dish;  when  cold, 
strew  white  pounded  sugar  over,  and  brown  it  with  a  sala- 
mander. 

Or  thus : — Make  a  rich  custard  without  sugar,  boiling 
lemon-peel  in  it.  When  cold  sift  a  good  deal  of  sugar  over  the 
whole,  and  brown  the  top  with  a  salamander. 


PASTRY  AND  COUFSCTIONARY.  419 

Sack  Cream. 

Boil  a  pint  of  iraw  cream,  the  yolk  of  an  egg  well  beaten^ 
two  or  three  spoonfuls  of  white  wine,  sugar,  and  lemon-peel ; 
stir  it  over  a  gentle  fire  till  it  be  as  thick  as  rich  cream,  and 
afterwards  till  cold :  then  serve  it  in  glasses,  with  long  pieces 
of  dry  toast 

Brandy  Cream, 

Boil  two  dozen  of  almonds  blanched,  and  pounded  bitter 
almonds,,  in  a  little  milk.  When  cold,  add  to  it  the  yolks  of 
five  eggs  beaten  well  in  a  little  cream ;  sweeten,  and  put  to 
it  two  glasses  of  the  best  brandy ;  and  when  well  mixed,  pour 
to  it  a  quart  of  thin  cream :  set  it  over  the  fire,  but  don't  let  it 
boil ;  stir  cme  way  till  it  thickens,  then  pour  into  cups,  or  low 
glasses. 

When  cold  it  will  be  ready.  A  ratafia-drop  may  be  put  in 
each  if  you  choose  it.  -  If  you  widi  it  to  keep,  scald  the  cream 
previously.  • 

Ratafia  Cream, 

^Boil  three  or  four  laurel,  peach,  or  nectarine  leaves,  in  a 
full  pint  of  cream;  strain  it;  aiid  when  cold,  add  the  yolks  of 
thoree  eggs  beaten  and  strained,  sugar,  and  a  large  spoonful  of 
brandy  stirred  quick  into  it  Scald  till  thick,  stirring  it  all  the 
time. 

*  •  >  ' 

Or  make  it  thus:— Mix  half  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  ratafia^ 
the  same  quantity  of  mountain  wine,  the  juice  of  two  or  three 
lemons,  a  pint  of  rich  cream,  and  as  much  sugar  as  will  make 
it  pleasantly-flavoured*  Beat  it  with  a  whisk,  and  put  it  into 
glasses.    This  cream  will  keep  eight  or  ten  days. 

Lemon  Cream. 

Put  a  quart  of  cream,  with  the  yellow  rind  of  a  lemon,  in 
a  saucepan,  over  a  moderate  fire,  and  keep  it  well  stirred  till  it 
gels  new.  milk  warm.  Then,  having  well-  sweetened  the  pulp 
and  juice  of  .three  lemons,  so  as  to  overpower  their  add  and 
prevent  its  turning  the  creaaci,  add  half  a  gill  of  orange-flower 
water,  and  six  whites  with  two  yolks  of  beaten  eggs :  put  them 
to  the  warm  cream ;  and  stir  the  whole  as  much  as  possible,  till 


420  0OUB8T1C  COOKSRT. 

it  begins  to  thicken;  when^  takiiig'  it  instantly  off  the  fire« 
strain  it  into  a  dish  or  glasses,  and  let  it  stand  to  be  served  up 
cold. 

YeUow  Lemon  Cream,  wUh&iU  Cream. 

Pare  four  lemons  very  thin  into  twelve  large  spoonfuls  of 
water,  and  squeeze  the  juice  on  seven  ounces  of  finely-pounded 
sugar ;  beat  the  yolks  of  nine  eggs  well ;  add  the  peels  and 
juice  beaten  together  for  some  time ;  then  strain  it  through  a 
flannel  into  a  silver  or  very  nice  block-tin  saucepan ;  set  it  over 
a  gentle  fire,  and  stir  it  one  way  till  pretty  thidt,  and  scalding- 
hot;  but  not  boiling,  or  it  will  curdle.  Pour  it  into  je&y- 
glasses.  A  few  lumps  of  sugar  should  be  rubbed  hard  on  the 
lemons  before  they  are  pared,  or  after,  as  the  peel  will  be  so 
thin  as  not  to  take  all  the  essence,  and  the  sugar  will  attract  it, 
and  give  a  better  colour  and  flavour. 

«  • 

White  Lemon  Cream. 

This  is  made  the  same  as  the  above ;  only  pat  the  whites  of 
the  eggs  in  lieu  of  the  yolks,  whisking  it  extremely  well  to 
froth. 

ExeeUent  (hange  Cream* 

Boil  the  rind  of  a  Seville  orange  very  tender;  beat  it  fine  in 
a  mortar;  put  to  it  a  spoonful  of  the  best  brandy,  the  juice  of 
a  Seville  orange,  four  ounces  of  loaf  sugar,  and  the  yolks  of 
four  eggs;  beat  all  together  for  ten  minutes;  then  by  gentle 
degtecB,  pour  in  a  pint  of  boiling  cream ;  beat  till  cold ;  put 
into  custard  cups  set  into  a  deep  dish  of  boiling  water,  and 
let  them  stand  till  cold  agun.  Put  at  the  top  small  strips 
of  orange  paring  cut  thin,  or  preserved  chips. 

Imperial  Cteam. 
Boil  a  quart  of  cream  with  the  diin  rind  of  a  lemon,  then 
stir  it  till  nearly  ooM;  have  ready  in  a  diah  or  bowl  that  yon  are 
to  serve  in,  the  juice  of  three  lemons  strained  with  as  modi 
sugar  as  will  sweeten  the  cream ;  whidi  pour  into  a  dish  from 
a  large  tearpot,  lu^ding  it  high,  and  moving  it  about  to  mix 
with  the  juice.  It  should  be  made  at  least  six  hours  before  it 
be  served,  and  will  be  still  better  if  a  day. 


PASTRY  AMO  CONFECTIONARY.  421' 


Cremn. 

Beat  fbor  ounces  of  sweet  almonds,  and  a  few  bitter,  in  a 
UKMrtar,  with  a  tea-spoonful  of  water  to  prevent  oiling,  both 
having  been  blanched.  Put  the  paste  to  a  quart  of  cream,  and 
add  ihe  juice  of  three  lemons  sweetened;  beat  it  up  with  a 
wldak  to  a  froth,  which  take  off  on  the  shallow  part  of  a  sieve; 
fill  g^lasses  with  some  of  the  liquor  and  the  froUi. 

Snow  Cream. 

Put  to  a  quart  of  cream  the  whites  of  three  eggs  well  beat- 
en, lour  spoonfuls  of  sweet  wine,  sugar  to  your  taste,  and  a 
bit  of  lemon-peel ;  whip  it  to  a  fVoth,  remove  the  peel,  and 
serve  in  a  dish. 


ScMed  pr  CUmted 

In  the  west  of  England,  and  partieularlj  in  Devonshire^ 
scalded  cream,  vulgarly  cidled  clouted. or  clotted  cr^m,  is  in 
very  general  use.  It  is,  in  fact,  a  most  delicate  and  delicious 
article,  for  tea^  coffee,  chocolate,  fVult,  fruit^pies,  &;c.  gene- 
rally considered  not  cnily  as  superior  to  comtnon  cream,  but  to 
battler,  and  in  some  cases  preferred  even  before  custard.  The 
method  of  preparing  it  is  excessively  simple.  The  new  milk 
is  set  in  shallow  pans,  commonly  of  brass,  small  at  the  top. 
These  pans,  whidi  stand  on  three  legs,  like  a  skillet,  are 
placed  next  day  over  a  very  slow  fire ;  and,  when  the  cream  is 
soffidenily  scalded,  a  romid  mark  appears  on  the  surface  of  the 
cream,  the  exact  size  of  the  bottom  of  the  pen,  which  mark 
is  in  Devonshire  calkd  the  ring.  As  soon  as  that  is  seen,  the 
cream  most  be  imrnadiately  taken  from  the  fire.  In  moderate^ 
ly  cool  weather,  it  will  keep  good  seven!  days ;  and,  being  of 
a  solid  substance,  is  sometimes  sent  even  to  London  in  tin 
boxes  or  earthen  jars. 

CqfeeCrmm. 

Boil  an  ouiioe  of  coffee  berries,  twenty-five  coriander  seeds^ 
half  a  stick  of  cinnamon,  a  bit  of  Seville  orange-peel,  and  a 
little  loaf-sugar,  In  a  pint  of  good  cream,  for  nearly  a  quarter 
of  an  hour,  in  the  mean  time,  having  beat  up  the  whites  of 
four  or  ^ye  eggs,  strain  to  them  the  warm  liquid,  put  all  over 
the  fire,  keep  whisking  it  till  it  thickens,  and  then  pour  it 


422  DOMB8TIC  COOKSRT. 

■ 

into  a  dish,  or  separate  cape  or  glasses,  and  serve  it  up  oclA, 
with  any  favourite  biscuits.  Some  prepare  an  agreeable  coffee 
cream,  by  making  a  gill  of  very  strong  and  clear  coffee^  and  « 
pint  of  rich  calfVfoot  jelly;  which  they  mix  together  while 
both  are  hot,  adding  a  pint  of  good  cream  with  loaf  or  Lisbon 
sugar  to  suit  the  palate.  As  this  will  be  jelly,  though  it  should 
not  be  stiff,  it  is  as  much  entitled  to  be  called  coffee  jelly  as 
coffee  cream. 

Chocolate  Cream*. 

Boil  an  ounce  of  the  best  scraped  chocolate  in  a  pint  of 
rich  cream  and  a  pint  of  good  miUc,  with  a  quarter  of  a  pouxKl 
of  loaf  sugar.  When  milled  quite  smooth,  take  it  off  the  fire; 
and,  while  it  cools,  whisk  up  the  whites  of  six  or  eight  egg% 
pour  it  into  glasses,  take  up  tl^e  froth  of  the  eggs  with  a  spoon, 
lay  it  on  sieves,  than  put  it  in  the  glasses,  so  as  for  aome  of  it 
to  rise  tbove  the  cream^  and  thus  serve  it  up. 

CodUn  Cream* 

Pare  and  core  twenty  good  codlins ;  beat  them  in  a  mortar, 
with  a  pint  of  cream ;  strain  it  into  a  dish ;  and  put  sugar, 
bread-crumbs,  and  a  glass  of  wine  to  it.    Stir  it  wdh 


Ice  (Vcoflis  of  StrmoberrUs  and  other  Fruits. 

Pick  the  Btalks  from  a  pdtde  of  fteth  strawberries;  force 
them  through  a  deve  into  a  basin  by  means  of  a  wooden  spoon; 
add  a  quarter  of  apound  of  powdered  leaf  sugar  and  «  pint  of 
creim,  and  mix  them  well  together.  .Put  the  whole  into  a 
freezing  pot ;  and,  covering  it  over,  set  it  in  a  pafl,  and  sur- 
round it  entirely  with  iceii  Strew,  on  the  ioe^  jdenty  of  salt, 
aud  keep  turning  round  the  pot  for  about  ten  minutes ;  then, 
opening  it,  scrape  it  from  the  sides,  again  cover  it  up,  and 
continue  turning  it  till  the  cream  become  like  butter.  Next 
put  it  in  the  moulds;  and  place  them  in  a  pail  covered  witfi  ice 
and  salt,  for  considerably  uKtfe  than  half  an  hour,  till  die 
waiter  mounts  near  the  top  of  the  pail :  then  dip  the  mould  into  \ 

water,  turn  out  the  ice  cream  on  a  plat^,  and  aend  it  to  t4ble» 
Care  must  be  taken  to  use  a  very  sufficient  quantity  of  ealt, 
without  which  it  will  not  freeae.  When  the  fresh  .fruit  is  not 
to  be  had,  two  table>spoonfais  of  strawberry  jam,  with  a  pint 


J 


FASTET  AND  CaNPBCTIOKART,  42S 

of  cfeam,  the  juice  of  s  lemon,  end  a  liUe  eocfaiiieil  to  im- 
prove the  coloqr,  may  beineied  Uufoogh  a  neve,  frosen,  and 
■erved  up,  exactly  in  the  same  manner.  Barberry,  cherry, 
currant,  and  even  barberry  ice  creams,  may  also  be  made  pre- 
csiaely  m  the  same  way,  with  obvious  proportiomngs  of  the 
acids  and  sugar  to  the  respective  fruits. 

4 

liaUam  Cram. 

Rub  on  a  lump  of  sugar  the  rind  a£  a  lemon,  and  scrape  it 
off  with  a  knife  into  a  deep  dish,  or  china  bowl,  and  add  half 
a  gill  of  brandy,  two  ounces  and  a  half  of  sifted  sugar,  the 
jaioe'of  a  lemon,  and  a  pint  of  double  cream,  and  beat  it  up 
well  with  a  clean  wlmk^in  the  mean  time  boil  an  ounce  of 
iainglass  in  a  gill  of  water  till  quite  dissolved,  strain  it  to  the 
other  ingredients,  beat  it  some  time,  and  fill  your  mould,  and 
when  coM  and  set  well,  turn  it  out  on  a  dish. 

N.B.  The  abcye  may  be  flavoured  with  any  kind  of  liquor, 
raspberry,  strawberry,  or  other  fruiu,  coloured  with  prepared 
cochineal,  and  named  to  correspond  with  the  flavour  given. 

Spinaeh  Cream. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  eight  eggs  with  a  wooden  spoon  or  a 
whisk  ;  sweeten  them  a  good  deal ;  and  put  to  them  a  stick  of 
cinnamon,  a  pint  of  rich  cream,  three  quarters  of  a  pint  of  new 
milk ;  stir  it  well ;  then  add  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  spinach- 
juice ;  set  it  over  a  gentle  stove,  and  stir  it  one  way  constantly 
tiU  it  is  as  thick  as  a  hasty  pudding.  Put  into  a  custard-dish 
flome  Naples  biscuits,  or  preserved  orange,  in  long  slices,  and 
pour  the  mixture  over  them.  It  is  to  be  eaten  cold ;  and  is  a 
dish  either  for  supper,  or  for  a  second  course. 

PiHachio  Cream. 

Blanch  four  ounces  of  pistachio  nuts ;  beat  them  fine  irith  a 
little  rose  water,  and  add  the  paste  to  a  pint  of  cream ;  sweeten ; 
let  it  just  boil,  and  put  it  into  glasses. 

SpemUh  Ciream* 

Take  three  spoonfiils  of  flour  of  rice  sifted  very  fine,  the 
yolks  of  three  eggs,  three  spoonfuls  of  water,  and  two  of 
orange-flower  water.    Then  put  to  them  one  pint  of  cream. 


424  BOME8T1C  COOUBBT. 

and  set  it  upon  a  good  fire:  ke^  starring  it  till  it  is  of  a  proper 
thicknets,  and  then  pour  it  info  cups. 

Steeple  Cream* 

Take  five  ounces  of  hartshorn  and  two  ounoea  of  isinfliiao» 
and  put  them  into  a  stone  bottle ;  fill  it  up  with  fair  water  to 
the  neck ;  put  in  a  small  quantity  of  gum-arabic  and  gum- 
dragon  ;  then  tie  up  the  ho^  very  dose,  and  set  it  into  a  pot 
of  water^  with  hay  ;at  the  bottom.  When  it  has  stood  six 
hours,  take  it  out,  and  let  it  stand  an  hour  before  ycfu  <^>en  it ; 
then  strain  it^  and  it  will  be  a  strong  jelly.  Take  a  pound 
of  blanched  almonds,  beat  them  very  fine,  mix  it  with  a  pint 
of  thick  cream,  and  let  it  stand  a  little ;  then  strain  it  oni^  and 
mix  it  with  a  pound  of  jelly ;  set  it  over  the  fire  till  it  ia 
scalding  hot,  and  sweeten  it  to  your  taste  if^ith  double  refined 
sugar.  Then  take  it  off,  put  in  a  little  ambe^,  and  poar  it 
into  small  high  gallipots.  When  it  is  cold,  turn  them,  and  lay 
cold  cream  about  them  in  heaps.  Be  careful  it  does  not  hoSl 
when  you  put  in  the  cream. 

Barley  Cream. 

Take  a  small  quantity  of  pearl  barley,  boil  it  in  milk  and 
water  till  it  is  tender,  and  then  strain  off  the  liquor.  Put  your 
barley  into  a  quart  of  cream,  and  let  it  boil  a  little.  Take  the 
whites  of  five  eggs,  and  the  yolk  of  one,  and  beat  them  up 
with  a  spoonful'  of  fine  flour,  and  two  spoonfuls  of  orange- 
flower  water.  Then  take  the  cream  off  the  fire,  mix  in  the 
eggs  by  degrees,  and  set  it  over  the  fire  again  to  thicken. 
Sweeten  it  to  your  taste^  and  pour  it  into  basins  for  use. 

A  Froth  to  set  on  Cream,  Custard,  or  Trifle,  which  looks  and 

eats  well. 

Sweeten  half  a  pound  of  the  pulp  of  damsons,  or  any  other 
sort  of  scalded  fruit,  put  to  it  the  whites  of  four  eggs  beaten, 
and  beat  the  pulp  with  them  until  it  will  stand  as  high  aa  you 
choose;  and  being  put  on  the  cream,  &c.  with  a  spoon,  it  will 
take  any  form ;  it  should  be  rough,  to  imitate  a  rock. 

Raspberry  Jam. 

After  properly  picking  any  quantity  of  ripe  raspberries, 
maflh  them  fine  with  a  long  wooden  spaddLe  or  spatula ;  and. 


PASTRY  AND  CONFECTIONARY.  425 

with  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  powdered  loaf  sugar  dis- 
solved in  half  a  pint  of  water  for  every  pound  of  raspberries,  boil 
them  about  half  an  hour,  stirring;  the  whole  well  together,  so 
as  to  mix  them  thoroughly,  and  prevent  any  burning  at  the 
bottom.  When  the  jam  is  sufficiently  done,  put  it  up  in  a  pan 
or  pots;  siflting  a  little  powdered  loaf  sugar  over  the  jam,  be- 
fore it  be  closely  covered  up. 

fklidous  Apricot  Jam. 

Pare^  and  cut  in  halves,  ripe  but  not  over-ripe  apricots ; 
then,  taking  out  and  cracking  the  stones,  blanch  and  well 
bruise  the  kernels.  Boil  together  the  parings,  crushed  stones, 
and  skins,  in  double  the  small  proportion  of  water  which  may 
be  required  for  boiling  the  quantity  of  fruit,  as  it  will  be 
necessary  to  reduce  it  about  one  half  in  boiling.  This  being 
done,  to  a  pound  of  apricots  put  a  gill  of  the  strained  liquor 
thus  obtained,  with  a  pound  of  sifted  loaf  sugar,  and  the 
pounded  kernels.  Set  it  over  a  brisk  iire,  and  stir  the  mix- 
ture well  together  till  the  fruit  be  thoroughly  mashed,  and  the 
whole  of  a  good  consistence,  but  by  no  means  very  stiiF.  After 
pouring  it  off,  and  letting  it  stand  covered  till  quite  cold,  put 
it  up  in  the  pot  or  pan^  sift  a  little  sugar  over,  and  place  a 
piece  of  writing  paper  dipped  in  brandy  on  the  top  ,<  then  cloee 
it  up,  and  keep  it  for  use.  This  is  a  most  delicious  article,  and 
full  as  salntary  and  nourishing  as  it  is  agreeable.  In-  exactly 
the  same  manner  may  be  made  peach  jam,  neclftrine  jam, 
green-gage  jam,  &c.  all  of  them  admirably  delicate,  whole- 
some, and  corrective. 

Chtrry  Jam. 

To  twelve  pounds  of  Kentish  or  duke  cherries,  when  ripe, 
weigh  one  pound  of  sugar ;  break  the  stones  of  part,  and 
blanch  them  ;  then  put  them  to  the  fruit  and  sugar,  and  boil 
all  gently  till  the  jam  comes  clear  from  the  pan.  Pour  it  into 
China  plates  to  come  up  dry  to  table.  Keep  in  boxes  with 
white  paper  between. 

Currant  Jam,  black,  red,  or  white, 

>  > 

Let  the  fruit  be  very  ripe,  pick  it  clean  from  the  stalks, 
bruise  it,  and  to  every  pound  pot  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of 
loaf  sugar ;  stir  it  well,  and  boil  half  an  hour. 

16  "      3i 


4*20^  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

Godsehefry  Jam. 

Cut  and  pick  out  the  seeds  of  fine  large  green  gooseberries^ 
gathered  when  they  are  full  grown^  but  not  ripe.  Put  them 
into  a  pan  of  water,  green  them,  and  put  them  into  a  sieve  to 
draih.  Then  beat  them  in  a  marble  mortar,  with  their  weight 
in  sugar.  Take  a  quart  of  gooseberries,  boil  them  to  a  mash 
in  a  quart  of  water,  squeeze  them,  and  to  ever^  pint  ot  liquor 
put  a  pound  of  fine  loaf  sugKr.  Then  boil  and  skim  it^  put  in 
your  green  gooseberries,  and  having  boiled  them  till  they  are 
very  thick,  clear,  and  oi  a  pretty  green,   pat  them  into  g^lasses. 

Gooseberry  Jam  for  Tarts » 

Put  twelve  pouncb  of  the  red  hairy  gooseberries,  when  ripe 
and  gathered  in  dry  weather,  into  a  preserving-pan,  with  a 
pint  of  <;urrant-juioe,  drawn  a$  for  jelly ;  let  them  boil  pretty 
quick,  and  beat  them  yriih  the  spoon ;  when  they  begin  to 
break/  put  to  them  9ix  pounds  of  pure  white  Lisbon  sugar,  and 
simmier  slowly  to  a  jam»  It  requires  long  boiling,  or  will  not 
ke^p ;  but  is  an  exoeUent  and  l-easonable  thing  for  tarts  or  puffi. 
Look  at  it  in  two  or  three  days,  and  if  the  syrup  and  fruit 
separate,  the  whole  must  be  boiled  longer.  Be  carefal  it  does 
net  bum  to  the  bottoai. 

To  prepare  lee  for  Iceingi*, 

G^t  a  f6w  f)oiincU  of  icfe,  breilk  it  altnost  to  powder,  throw 
a  large  handful  and  a  half  of  salt  among  it*  You  must  pre- 
pare it  in  a  part  of  the  house  where  as  little  of  the  warm  air 
comes  as  you  can  possibly  contrive.  The  ice  and  salt  being  in 
a  bucket,  put  your  cream  into  an  ice-pot,  and  cover  it ;  im- 
mense it  in  the  ice,  Hud  draw  that  round  the  pot^  so  as  to  touch 
6very  possible  t>srt.  In  a  few  minuted  ptit  a  spatula  or  spoon 
Iti,  aild  stilr  it  well,  removing  the  partd  that  ice  ronnd  the  edges 
to  the  centre.  If  the  ice-cream,  or  water,  be  in  a  form,,  shut 
the  bottom  elose^  and  move  the  whole  in  the  Ice,  as  yoii  can- 
not use  a  spoon  to  that  without  dangei*  of  Waste.  •  there 
should  be  holes  in  the  bucket,  to  let  off  the  ice  9fi  it  thaws. 

N.B.  When  any  fluid  tends  towards  cold,  the  moving  it 
quickly  accelerates  the  cold ;  tind  likewise,  when  any  fluid  is 
trading  to  heat^  stirring  it  will  fiicilitatfe  its  boiling. 


J 

f  PASTUX  AND  CONfWTIOiHART.  407 


I 


lee  Watere. 

Rab  some  fine  sugar  on  lemon  or  orange^  to  give  the  colour 
and  flavour,  then  squeese  the  juice  at  either  on  its  respective 
pod;  add  water  and  sugar  to  uttke .a five  sh«srhet>  Aftd  staraiti  it 
bafeore  itbe  pul  ipto  the  ice-pot  If  oraoge^  4ibe  greater  pro- 
pprtio9  should  he  of  the  China  juioe,  and  .00I7  a.littfe  si 
Seville^  iuid  a  eou^lbit  of  the  peel  grated  b^  the  sugar. 

Stra»)ierry  IVater  lee* 

Pick  the  8t44l^»  fivm  a  pottle  0f  altravberrias^  and  fnsess' 
them  thrfl^^h  «  f  iev^  iipito  a  basin*  TJmb.  add  a  funt  and  m  half 
of  waiter,  with  jaialf  a  pound  of  powdered  loaf  sugar;  and, 
after  well  mixing  them,  pass  the  whojb  Uurough  a  sieve,  freeze 
it  rich,  put  it  in  |he  moulds,  end  serve  it  up.  If  ioetf  are  not 
thick  and  smooth  like  butter,  th^  oMist  l^ve  a  little  syrup 
added,  and  be  again  frozen,  before  tbey  go  into  the  moulda. 
When  strewberries  are  not  in  seikson,  p^ut  two  iable-spoonfnls 
of  strawberry  jam  into  the  basin ;  and  add  the  juice  of  a  large 
kmpn,  udth  a  piut  and  a  half  of  water,  and  a  little  cochineal  : 
ihen,  straining  it  through  js  sieve  whieh  will  suffer  no  aeeds  to 
pass,  freeze  it,  and  serve  it  up,  in  the  usual  way.  Red,  white, 
^nd  black  currants,  us  w4ll  as  raspberries,  Ac.  may  be  water 
iped  after  the  sapie  methods  with  the  respective  jams  or  firesh 
ftuits- 

Bunch  of  Grapes  Water  Ice. 

Pour  a  pint  of  beilic^  water  over  .two  or  three  handfuls  of 
clary  or  elder  flowers,  cover  .them  up  dose,  and  let  them  stand 
to  infuse  till  quite  cold.  Then,  draining  off  all  the  liquor, 
pour  it  on  about  six  ounces  of  powdered  loaf  sugar,  and 
squeeze  in  the  juice.of  two  or  three  lemops.  Strain. through  a 
sieve,  freeze  it,  and  fiU  ^jth  it  the  mouldy  or  shape,  of  a 
bunch  of  grapes.  Cover  the  closed  mould  with  paper;  and 
let  it^tand  at  least  an  hour  in  .the  ice  and  salt  before  it  .be  turn- 
fid  out.  Other  shapes  may  be  thus  filled,  with  ices  flavoured 
like  the  fruits  represented. 

Brown  Bread  Ice, 

Orate  .as  £ne  as  possible  stale  brown  bread,  soak  a  small 
proportion  in  cream  two  or  three  hour§,  sweeten  and  ice  it* 


428-  DOMESTIC  COOKBRY. 

JBLLIKS,  SYLLABUBS^  AND  FLUMMERY. 

Calws' Feet  Jelfy. 

.  Take  four  calves'  feet,  (not  those  which  are  sold  at  tripe 
shops^  which  have  been  boiled  till  almost  all  the  gelatine  is 
extracted,  but  buy  them  at  the  butcher's;)  slit  them  in 
two,  take  away  the  fat  from  between  the  daws,  wash  them 
well  in  lukewarm  water,  then  put  them  into  a  large  stew-pan, 
and  cover  them  with  water ;  when  the  liquor  boils,  skim  it  well, 
and  let  it  boil  gently  six  or  seven  hours,  that  it  may  be  reduced 
to  about  two  quarts;  then  strain  it  through  a  sieve,  and  skim 
all  the  oily  substance  which  is  on  the  surface  of  the  liquor. 

If  you  are  not  in  a  hurry,  it  is  better  to  boil  the  calves'  feet 
the  day  before  you  make  the  jelly,  as  when  the  liquor  is  cold, 
the  oily  part  being  at  the  top,  and  the  other  being  firm,  with 
pieces  of  kitchen  paper  applied  to  it,  you  may  remove  every 
particle  of  the  oily  substance,  without  wasting  any  of  the 
liquor. 

Put  the  liquor  in  a  stew-pan  to  melt,  with  a  pound  of 
lump  sugar,  the  peel  of  two  lemons,  the  juice  of  six,  six 
whites  of  eggs  and  shells  beat  together,  and  a  bottle  of  sherry 
or  madeira;  whisk  the  whole  together  till  it  is  on  the  boil, 
then  put  it  on  the  side  of  the  stove,  and  let  it  simmer  a  quarter 
of  an  hour ;  strain  it  through  a  jelly-bag ;  what  is  strained 
first  must  be  poured  into  the  bag  again,  until  it  is  as  bright  and 
BB  clear  as  rock  water ;  then  put  the  jelly  in  moulds,  to  be  cold 
and  firm ;  if  the  weather  is  too  warm,  it  requires  some  ice. 
When  it  is  required  to  be  very  stiff,  half  an  ounce  of  isinglass 
may  be  added  when  the  wine  is  put  in. 

It  may  be  flavoured  by  the  juice  of  various  fruits,  &c.  and 
spices,  &c.  and  coloured  with  saffron,  cochineal,  red  beet 
juice,  spinach  juice,  claret,  &c.  and  is  sometimes  made  with 
cherry  brandy. 

Ten  shank  bones  of  mutton,  which  may  be  bought  for  two- 
pence halfpenny,  will  give  as  much  jelly  as  a  calf's  foot,  which 
costs  a  shilling. 

Hartshorn  JtUy, 

Boil  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  hartshorn  shavings  in  three 
pints  of  water,  over  a  moderate  fire ;  till,  on  taking  a  little  6f 


PASTRY  AND  CONFECTIONARY.  429 

it  out  to  cool,  it  hangs  on  the  spoon  as  a  jelly.     Then  take  it 

off*,  strain  it  while  hot  into  a  saucepan^  with  half  a  pint  of  old 

liock^  and  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  powdered  loaf  sugar;  and 

beating  up  the  whites  of  two  or  three  eggs  to  a  frothy  put  it 

into  the  jelly ;  stir  the  whole  well  together,  and  pour  it  a  little 

from  one  vessel  to  another^  that  it  may  the  more  perfectly 

unite.     Let  it  now  boil  two  or  three  minutes,  and  then  put  in 

the  joioe  of  onti  large  lemon  or  two  small  ones  ;  and,  boiling 

it   up  a  minute  or  two  longer,  when  it  will  be  finely  curdled 

and  of  a  pure  white  in  colour,  place  a  good  swanskin  jelly 

bag  over  a  pan  or  basin,  and  run  it  through  three  or  four  times, 

till  it  looks  as- clear  as  crystal.     Put  a  clean  China  basin  now 

beneath  the  bag ;  -and,  having  clean  jelly   glasses  ready,  half 

fill  them  from  the  basin  as  the  jelly  once  more  runs  through : 

then  throw  some  thin  rind  of  lemon  and  a  little  Seville  orange 

peel  into  the  basin ;  and,  when  the  jelly  has  all  passed  through, 

fill  up  the  rest  of  the  glasses,  and  the  jelly  will  look  of  a  fine 

amber  colour.     This  is  considered  as  the  best  method,  when 

required  to  be  peculiarly  clear  and  delicate :  but  it  may  be  done 

by  merely  boiling  the  rinds  of  a  lemon  and  a  China  orange,  at 

first,  with  the  hartshorn  shavings  and  water ;  adding  the  juice 

of  both  lemon  and  orange  when  the  strained  liquor  is  cold ;  then 

boiling  the  whole  up  with  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  sugar,  and 

the  frothed  whites  of  eggs,  without  stirring ;  and  straining  it 

through  a  jelly  bag  into  a  pan  or  basin,  from  which  the  glasses 

are  at  once  filled  with  a  spoon. 

Apple  Jelly. 

Pare,  quarter,  and  core,  any  quantity  of  the  finest  baking 
or  boiling  apples ;  and,  covering  them  well  with  water,  let 
them  boil  till  they  completely  mash.  When  the  whole  is  of  a 
good  consistence,  but  not  too  thick,  pour  it  into  a  sieve,  and 
set  it  to  drain  over  a  pan.  In  the  mean  time,  get  ready,  in 
another  pan,  a  good  syrup,  made  by  boiling  the  rinds,  sound 
cores,  &c.  in  water;  then  straining  it,  and  boiling  up  the 
usual  quantity  of  sugar  for  making  it  sufficiently  rich.  Of 
this  syrup,  take  as  much  in  quantity  as  the  apple  juice  which 
comes  through  the  sieve ;  and,  boiling  it  up  to  a  considerable 
degree  of  height,  but  not  nearly  carimel,  add  the  jelly,  and 
let  them  boil  together  about  eight  or  ten  minutes.  .  This  jelly 


400  POMJOSTIC  COOKRRT. 

is  frequently  poured  hot  over  richer  fruiis,  &c,  to  assist  19  pra« 
florvi«g  them;  hut>  wben  there  is  sugtur  sifted  over,  and  toan- 
dy  paper,  it  can  scaicdy  ever  be  necessary.  Apple  j^Uy^ 
which  should  itself^  like  all  otber  fruit  jellies,  be  kept  xu>veced. 
ii;i  tibe  same^uanner,  .is  a  very  usp&d  and  josost  wbolesoioe  arti- 
cle in  all  families. 

(Sreem  or  Rfid  Gooseberry  JcUyp 

Ttie  preparation  of  gooseberry  jelly  is  somewfaat  similar  to 
that  of  apples,  it  being  thus  made*^Boil  a  fuart  of  picked 
gooseberries,  either  red  or  green,  b»t  not  oy^-ripe,  in  as  much 
waterp  tiU  they  mash  into  a  tolerableoonsistence :  then  dra^i  all 
the  juioe  from  them,*  through  a  sieve  or  flannel  jelly  bag  ;  and, 
having  boiled  np  as  much  conunou  syrup  as  there  is  of  goooe- 
berry  juke,  to  a  height  similar  to  that  above  directed  for  the 
apple  jelly,  boil  them  together  ior  about  ten  minutei^  akiin- 
niing  the  mixture^U  the  time,  when  a  fine  jelly  will  be  formed, 
which  may  be  kept  lor  used  at  pleasure. 

Red,  White,  md  Black  Cwrramt  JeiUes. 

These  reepectiveliyfnoat  useful  famHy  jellies  are  all  n^ade 
precisely  a&er  the  ^anie  snanner ;  only  that  some  put  a  some- 
what larger,  and  •others  a  aomewbat  less  poitioB  of  ai^gar,  to'the 
ved  aa.d  the  white  than  to  the  bkok  curraote.  The  distinction, 
however,  is  of  no  real  oanseqiieQee.  Each  may  be  made  in 
the  following  ipanner— Pick  from  their  atalks  any  quantity  of 
either  red,  white,  or  black  currants,  and  put  them  into  a  pre- 
serving pan,  or  saucepan,  over  a  good  fire ;  and  when  they  are 
mashed  oompletely,  widiout  boiling,  run  theur  liquor  through 
a  flannel  bag.  To  a  pint  cff  juice  add  nearly  a  pound  of  sifted 
loaf-sugar ;  and,  letting  it  boil  quick,  skim  it  clean,  and  re- 
duce  it  40  a  proper  stifihess.  This  is  always  easily  ascertained, 
by  putting  a  small  quantity  in  a  China,  cup  or  saucer,  and  setting 
it  in  cold  water.  When  it  Je  thus  perceived  to  be  a  fine  jelly, 
pnt  it  up  in  pots  or  glasses ;  and  having  let  it  stand  at  least 
twenty-feur  hours,  to  get  entirely  cold,  sift  over  it  a  little  pow<> 
deved  sugar,  cover  the  top  with  a  piece  of  writing  paper  cut 
to  the  exact  siae  and  dipped  in  ibrandy,  and  afterwards  close 
and  fill  it  up  in  the  usual  way.  Many  persons,  in  mating  i»d- 
cuifant  jelly,  use  a  third  partof  white  cuirants.    Thfe  :use«,  as* 


PASTRY  AND  CONFSCTIOITART.  491 

Tpr^]]  a>  thepieatantnett  of  currant  yMies,  of  the  different  8ort9> 
medidnallj  and  otherwise^  are  sufficiently  known. 

Rice  Jetfy. 

This  is  one  of  the  best  and  most  nourishing  preparations  of 
rice,  particularly  fof  valetudinarians.  It  is  thus  made*— Boil  A 
quarter  of  a  pdund  of  rice  flour^  with  half  a  pound  of  loaf- 
sugar  in  a  quart  of  water^  till  the  whole  becomes  one  umfotm 
gelatinous  mass  ;  then  strain  off  the  jelly^  and  let  it  stand  to 
cool.  If^  of  this  lights  nutritious^  and  salubrious  food,  a  little 
be  frequently  eaten^  it  will  be  found  very  beneficial  to  all 
weakly  and  infirm  constitutions. 

Orange  Jelly. 

Grate  the  rind  of  two  Seville  and  two  China  oranges,  and 
two  lemons;  squeeze  the  juioa  of  three  of  each,  and  strain, 
and  add  the  juice  of  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  lump  sugar,  and 
a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  water,  and  boil  till  it  almost  candies. 
Have  ready  a  quart  of  isinglass  jelly  made  with  two  ounces ; 
put  to  it  the  syrup,  and  boil  it  once  up ;  strain  off  the 
jelly,  and  let  it  stand  to  settle  before  it  is  put  into  the  mould. 

Fruit  in  Jelly. 

Put  into  a  basin  lialf  a  pint  of  dear  calf's  feet  jelly,  and 
when  it  is  set  and  stiff,  lay  in  three  fine  peaches,  and  a  bunch 
of  grapes  with  the  stalk  upwards.  Put  over  them  a  few  vine 
leaves,  and  then  fill  up  your  bowl  with  jelly.  Let  it  stand  till 
the  next  day,  and  then  set  your  basin  to  the  brim  in  hot  water. 
When  you  perceive  it  gives  way  from  the  basin,  lay  your  dish 
over  it»  torn  your  jelly  carefully  out,  and  serve  it  to  table. 

Smnmry  Jelfy* 

Take  some  thin  slices  of  lean  veal  and  ham,  and  put  them 
into  a  stew-pan,  with  a  carrot  or  turnip,  and  two  or  three 
onions.  Cover  it,  and  let  it  sweat  on  a  slow  fire  till  it  is  of  a 
deep  brown  colour.  Then  put  to  it  a  quart  of  very  clear 
broth,  some  whole  pepper,  maoe,  a  little  isinglass,  and  salt  to 
your  palate.  Boil  it  ten  minnles,  then  strain  it,  skim  off  all 
th6  &t,  and  put  to  ft  tke  wUles  of  llnree  eggs.    Then  rim  it 


482  BOMJ|6TIC  COOKERY. 

several  times  through  a  jelly-bag  till  it  is  perfectly  dear,  and 
pour  it  into  your  glasses. 

Apple  Jelly  far  preserving  Sweetmeats. 

This  useful  article^  for  covering  rich  sweetmeatSj  and  other 
purposes,  is  very  easily  made :  in  summer,  with  codlina ;  in 
autumn,  with  rennets  or  winter  pippins. — Pare,  quarter,  and 
core,  apples  of  either  description,  or  almost  any  other,  and 
put  them  into  a  stew-pan  with  water  barely  sufficient  to  cover 
them.  When  the  fruit  is  boiled  to  a  pap,  add  a  quart  of  water, 
boil  it  half  an  hour  longer,  run  it  hot  through  a  flannel  ba^, 
put  it  up  in  a  jar,  and  keep  it  covered  for  use.  A  little  lemon 
peel  boiled  with  the  apples,  and  a  pound  of  powdered  loaf- 
sugar  added  to  each  pint  of  the  pulp,  and  boiled  up,  will  make 
a  very  good  apple  jelly  for  the  table,  or  to  eat  with  cream. 

Blanumge  or  Blanc-Mange. 

Boil,  till  melted,  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  finely  shred 
isinglass  in  a  pint  of  milk.     Pound  two  ounces  of  blanched 
sweet  almonds,  and  six  or  eight  bitter  ones,  very  fine ;  mix- 
ing in  a  little  orange*flower  water,  and  a  small  quantity  of 
mace,  cinnamon,  nutmeg,  and  sugar.     Strain  the  isinglass  and 
milk  into  the  almonds,  &c.  then  let  them  boil  up  together, 
pass  the  whole  through  a  sieve,  and  fill  it  into  the  moulds  pre- 
pared to  receive  it,  whence  it  is  not  to  be  removed  till  quite 
cold.     Blamange  may  thus  be  made  in  any  shape ;  and,  from 
its  nourishing  quality,  should  never  be  absent  from  a  genteel 
table,  especially  where  any  of  the  family  or  visitors  have  the 
smallest  tendency  to  a  decline.     Indeed,  though  so  great  a 
delicacy,  it  may  be  considered  as  a  most  powerful  medicine  for 
consumptive  habits ;  and  if  the  almonds,  &c.  be  reduced  or 
emitted,  it  may  be  made  with  far  less  expense  than  most  medi- 
cal preparations  can  be  procured.     Even  isinglass  alone,  boiled 
in  milk,  and  sweetened  with  a  little  sugar,  if  freely  eaten  for 
a  short  time,  is  found  extremely  beneficial  to  weakly  constitu- 
tions. 

Jaun  Mange. 

Take  three  quarters  of  an  ounce  of  isinglass  and  half  a  pint  of 
water  boiled  together  till  the  isinglass  is  just  dissolved,  then  put 


/^ 


PASTRY  hSCb  CONVBCTIONARY.  48t 

inthedndaad  jttioeof  alein<m,  half  a{unt-cif  moiintidli  wine, 
aad  sugar  to  your  palate ;  after  it  is  all  IxriW  together,  let  it 
si:and  till  almost  cold,  dnen  add  four  yolks  of  qrgs«  Put  it 
again  on  the  fire,  till  it  almost  boils;  then  strain  it  .through  a 
fine  lawn  sieve,  and  keep  stirring  it  till  cold . 

Put  a  pint  of  cider  and  a  bottle  of  strong  beer  into  a  large 
bowl,  grate  in  a  smalt  nutmeg)  and  sweeten  it  to  your  taste. 
Then  milk  from  the  oow  as  muck  milk  as  "will  make  a  stnmg 
froth.  Let  it  stsnd  an  hoUr,  and  then  strew  over  it  a  few  cur- 
rants well  washed,  picked,  and  plumed  before  the  fire;  and  it 
will  be  fit  fbr  use. 

Royal  London  Syllahuib^ 

Put  a  bottle  of  red.  port,  a  pint  of  Madei^m,  sherry,  or  fine 
old  mquutain,  and  half  a  pint  oi  brandy,  into  a  large  bo;wl, 
with  grated  nutmeg  and  plenty  of  loaf  sugar ;  then  mUk  into 
it  at  lea^  two  quarts,  and  grate  over  it  some  more  nutmeg. 
Good  wine  syllabub  is  commonly  made,  in  London,  with  either 
red  or  white  wine  alone ;  it  is,  hQwever,  •  sonpetimes  half  and 
half.  Red  wine  is  chiefly  preferred,  on  account  of  its.  agreea- 
able  colour. 

'  '  Good  and  cheap  Staffordshire  SyUabui. 
This  is  a  very  pleasant,  as  well  as  a  very  qheap  met}iod  of 
making  syllabub.  Milk  into  a  bowl,  on  a  quart  of  ci4er ;  mix- 
ed with  a  glass  or  two  of  good  brandy,  and  some  sugar  and 
nn^eg :  or,  if  a  cow  be  npt  at  hand,  warm  some  Ipopd  milk, 
and  pour  it,  from  a  considerable  height,  thi^oug^  the  spoilt  of 
a  tea-pot,  into  a  bowl,  the  top  of  wh^oh .  m^y  thus  be  almost 
equally  well  frothed.  In  summer, .  this  is  not  a  bad  beverage, 
even  without  the  brandy  or  spice;  as  it  is  ofl(en  drank  in  many 
retired  parts  of  the  country,  some  of  them  within  thirty  miles 
of  the  metropolis. 

Devonshire  SyUabuh. 

In  Devonshire,  and' the  adjacent  counties  famous  for  clouted 
or  scalded  creign,  their  richest  syllabubs  are  usjially  made  in  the 
following  manner— Put  a  pint  of  red  port  and  a  pint  of  any 

16  3  k 


4M  DOMESTIC  COOKBRT* 

white  ynne,  in  a  Urge  China  bowl,  with  sagar  to  pakte,  and 
milk  it  nearly  full ;  in  about  a  quarter  of  an  hour^  cover  it  witli 
scalded  cream,  grate  over  it  a  nutmeg,  scatter  a  little  pounded 
mace  and  cinnamon^  and  give  it  a  rich  sprinkling  with  those 
minute  coloured  comfits  called  nonpareib. 

Fine  whuked  or  whipped  SyUdlmh. 

Take  a  quart  of  cream,  a  pint  of  mountain  wine,  the  jnice 
of  a  lai^e  lemon,  and  one  Seville  or  two  China  oranges,  with  m 
large  glass  or  more  of  brandy,  a  gill  of  orange-flower  water, 
and  powdered  loaf-sugar  to  palate.  Whisk  or  whip  it  up  well ; 
and,  as  the  froth  rises,  take  it  off  with  a  spoon,  and  lay  it  on 
an  inverted  sieve  to  drain.  If  it  should  not  rise  well,  add  the 
whites  of  a  couple  of  eggs.  When  sufficiently  whipped,  put  a 
few  spoonfhls  of  the  liquid  into  the  syllabub  glasses,  grate  in  a 
little  nutmeg,  and  fill  up  high  with  the  froth.  It  may  be  made 
of  colour,  either  with  a  little  cochineal,  or  by  using  red  port 
wine  instead  of  mountain ;  but  this  is  seldom  done.  A  com- 
mon sort,  however,  is  made  in  some  parts  of  the  country  chiefly 
with  new  milk,  cider,  orange  or  lemon  juice,  and  sugar  and 
nutmeg,  which  they  colour  either  green,  red,  or  yellow,  by 
means  of  spinach  juice,  cochineal,  or  saffron. 

Eoerlasting  whipped  Sylldbuh. 

Take  a  quart  of  cream,  half  a  pint  of  old  hock,  half  a 
pint  of  sack,  three  lemons,  and  a  pound  of  double-refined 
sugar.  Having  beat  and  sifted  the  sugar,  and  put  it  to  the 
cream,  grate  off  the  yelbw  rind  from  the  lemons,  and  the  rind 
of  a  Seville  orange,  or  some  preserved  essence,  to  improve  the 
flavour :  add  them  also,  and  squeeze  the  juice  of  the  three 
lemons  into  the  wine,  with  aJitUe  orange-flower  water.  These 
being  mixed  with  the  cream,  beat  the  whole  together  for  half 
an  hour  with  a  whisk,  and  fill  into  the  glasses  with  a  spoon. 
It  will  keep  good  a  fortnight,  and  is  even  better  three  or  four 
days  old  than  when  fresh  made.  On  these  accounts,  it  is 
called  the  Everlasting  Whipped  Syllabub. 

Spanish  SyOabuh.  * 

In  two  quarts  of  new  milk,  put  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
blanehed  and  finely^beaten  almonds,  a  gill  of  lemon  juice, -half 


PASTRY  AND  CONFECTIONARY.  436 

a  gill  of  rose  w«ter,  half  a  pint  each  of  the  jnioea  of  straw* 
berries  and  raspberries,  a  pint  of  Canary  or  fine  old  mountain 
wine^  and  a  pound  of  powdered  loaf-sugar;  mix  the  whole  wett 
together,  and  whisk  it  up  till  it  froths  and  becomes  of  a  pleas« 
ing  colour,  when  it  will  be  found  very  delicious. 

Lemon  Syllabub** 

Take  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  loaf-sugar,  and  rub  upon  the 
outer  rinds  of  two  lemoms,  tiU  you  have  got  all  the  essence 
out  of  them.  Then  put  the  sugar  into  a  pint  of  cream,  and 
the  same  quantity  of  white  wine.  Squeese  in  the  juioe  'of 
both  lemons^  and  let  it  stand  for  two  hours.  Then  mill  it  with 
a  chocolate  mill  to  raise  the  froth,  and  take  it  off  with  a  ^oon 
as  it  rises,  or  it  will  make  it  heavy.  Lay  it  upon  a  hair  sieve 
to  drain,  then  fill  your  glasses  with  the  remainder,  and  lay  on 
the  froth  as  high  as  you  can.  Let  them  stand  all  nighty  and 
they  will  be  fit  for  use. 

Commim  Fhtmmcfy. 

Good  common  flummery  is  thus  made — Put  some  of  the  finest 
and  whitest  oatmeal  into  a  broad  and  deep  pan,  cover  it  with 
water,  jtir  it  well,  and  let  it  stand  twelve  hours;  then  pour  off  the 
water  clear,  and  put  on  fresh,  to  be  stirred  and  remain  the 
same  time,  and  be  in  like  manner  poured  off.  Then  stir  in  a 
little  fresh,  immediately  strain  the  oatmeal  through  a  coarse 
hair  sieve,  and  boil  it  till  very  thick,  keeping  it  well  stirred 
.  all  the  time.  As  soon  as  it  comes  of  a  proper  consistency,  pour 
it  out ;  and,  when  cold,  turn  it  into  plates,  and  eat  it  with 
either  wine,  dder,  beer,  milk,  or  cream  and  sugar.  Small 
whole  oatmeal,  as  it  is  called,  or  rather  grits  once  cut,  does 
better  than  common  oatmeal;  and  a  little  loaf-sugar,  dis" 
solved  in  rose  or  orange-flower  water,  and  mixed  with^the  warm 
flummery  while  straining,  makes  no  unpleasant  addition. 

Dutch  Flummery* 

Boil  an  ounce  of  isinglass  in  half  a.pint  of  water  till  it  is  dU 
dissolved,  adding  a  lemon-peel  while  it  is  boiling.  Then  beat 
up  three  yolks  of  eggs,  with  half  a  pint  of  white  wine,  and 
put  this  mixture  to  the  melted  isinglass,  with  lemon  juice  and 
sugar  to  palate.    Mix  the  whole  well  together,  boil  it  up  a 


4M  DOMESTIC  COOKERY« 

Iktlei  strain  it  throogh  a  lawn  sieve,  stir  it  till  near  cold,  ncid 
then  put  it  into  a  melon  shape.  This  ia  sometimes  called  DiitcA 
blamabge. 

French  Fbrnniery. 
Beat  half  an  ounce  of  isinglass  as  fine  as  possible ;  boil  it 
gently  for  about  a  qualrter  of  an  hour,  in  a  pint  of  creani, 
carefttUj.  stirring  it  all  the  .  time ;  and  then,  taking  it  di  the 
%sey  sweeten  it  with  some  fine  powdered  loaf-sugar,  add  m 
Very  little  rose  and  orange-flower  water,  strain  the  whole 
through  a  sieve>  stir  it  till  lialf  eold,  and  put -it  into  a  baain  or 
mould.  When  quite  cold,  turn  it  into  a  dish,  and  gamiah  with 
currant  jelly. 

Bice  Fkmimery. 
£pil.with.  a  ^pint  of  new  inilk,  a  bit  of  lemon  peel,  and 
cinnamon  ;  mix  with  a  little  cold  milk  as  much  rice-flour  as  wfll 
make  the  whole  of  a  good  consistence,  sweeten,  and  add  a 
spoonful  of  peach-waCtr,  Kx  a  bitter  almond  •  beaten ;  boil  it, 
observitig  it  ;do  n<^  bum.;  pour  it  into  a  shape  or  prnt-bisin, 
taking  out  the  spice.  When  cold,  turn  the  flumaaaery  into  a 
dish,. and  serve  with  creain,  milk,  or  custard  round :  or  put  a 
•tea-cupful,  of  cream  into  half  a  -pint  of  new  milk,-  a  glass  of 
.white  wine,  half  a  l^oon  squeezed,  and  sugar. 

Sokmon's  Temgk  in  Fhamury. 

Take  a  quart  of  stiff  flummery,  and  divide  it  into  three 
parts.  Make  one  part  a  pretty  Khick  coldidi*  with  a  Wt&it  cochi- 
neal bruised  fine,  and  steeped  in  Fren<i!i  brandy.  Scrape  an 
'  ounce  of  chocolate  very  fine,  dissolve  it  in  a  little  strong  cofl)^, 
and  mix  it  with  'ainother  part  of  your  flummery,  td  make  it  a 
iight  stone  colour.  The  last  part  must  be  ii^^hite.  Then  wM 
your  temple-mould,  and  fit  it  in  a  pot  to  stand  even.  Fill  the 
top  of  the  temple  with  red  flummery  for  t&e  steps,  and  the 
four  points  with  white.  Then  fill  it  op  with  chocolate  flum« 
mei^i  and  let  it  stand  till  the  next  day.  Then  looien  it  round 
with  a  pin,  and .  shake  it  loose  very  gently ;  but  do  not  dip 
your  mould  in  warm  water,  as  that  will  take  off  the  gloss,  and 
qpoil  the  colour.  When  you  turn  it  out,  stick  a  small  sprig  of 
flowers  down  ftom  the  tap  of  every  point,  winch  will  iidt  cmly 


r 
t 


PASTflY  AND  CONFECTIO^TARY.  437 

9tretigtfaen  it,  but  give  it  a  pretty  appearance.    Lay  round  it 
roek  Candy  aweetoieaU. 

A  Hedgehog. 

Take  two  pounds  of  blanched  almonda  and  beat,  them  well 
ii^  a  mqrtar^  with  a  little  canary  and  orange-flower  water  to 
keep  them  from  oiling.  Work  them  into  a  stiff  paate^  and  then 
beat  in  the  yolks  of  twelve,  and  the  whites  of  seven  eggs* 
Pat  to  it  a  pint  of  cream,  sweeten  it  to  your  taste,  and  set  it  on 
a  clear  fire.  Keep  it  constantly  stirring  till  it  is  thick  enough 
to  make  into  the  form  of  a  hedgehog.  Then  stick  it  fuU  of 
blanched  iilmonds^  slit  and  stuck  up  like  the  bristles  of  a  hedge- 
hog, and  then  pat  it  into  a  dish.  Take  a  pint  of  cream^  and 
.the  yolks  of  four  eggs  beat  up,  and  sweeten  it  to  your  palate. 
Stir  the  whole  together  over  a  slow  fire  till  it  is  quite  hot,  and 
then  poor  it  into  the  dish  round  the  hedgehog,  and  let  it  stand 
till  it  is  cold,  when  its  form  wiH  have  a  pleasing  effect 

VABIO0S  SWEET  DI8HB8  AND  SWEETMEATS. 

A  grand  TriJU. 

The  trifle  being  generally  considered  as  an  article  to  be  pre* 
pared  with  the  utmost  delicacy  of  taste  as  well  as  of  appear- 
ance, is  judged  worthy  of  particular  attention.'  The  glass  in 
which  it  is  served  up  should  be  beautifully  formed  as  well  as 
cut,  and  sufiidently  large  and  elevated  to  convey  an  idea  of 
grandeur.— At  the  bottom  of  this  elegant  depository  of  light  and 
airy  delicacies,  put  a  layer  of  fine  sponge  or  Savoy  biscuits ; 
over  them,  another  of  ratafias;  and  a  third,  of  maoHroons: 
strewing,  between  each  two  layers,  and  onthetopof'thcUst^^a 
mixture  of  blanched  and  pounded  almonds;  with  candid 
citron,  orange  peel,  and  ptne*apple  chips,  cut  small,  afad  a 
tittle  finely-beaten  mace  and  nutmeg.  Four  half  a  ptnt  or  more 
of  sherry,  Lisbon,  or  fine  old  mountain  wine,  over  the  cakes, 
according  to  the  quantity  which  they  may  be  fbund  ciipable  of 
imbibing ;  and,  in  the  mean  time,  prepare  a  custard  to  oover 
them,  in  the  following  manner— Boil  a  quart  of  milk  and 
cream,  in  equal  quantities,  with  a  iitde  lemon  peel,  some  cin- 
namon,  three  leavcb  of  laurel,  and  twa  or  three  ounces  of 
sugar,  fctr  about  twenty  minutes;  and,  while  it  cools,  beat 
weB  up  die  yolks  of  sik  or  eight  eggs,,  and  twa  qMionfuls  of 


436  BOMS8TIC  COOKBRY. 

rice  floor.    Then^  gradually  miung  the  milk,  a  little  at  a  time, 
veil  stirring  it  all  the  while,  and  afterwards  straining  it  into  n. 
stew-pan  through  a  hair  sieve,  place  it  over  the  fire,  and  con- 
tinue stirring  till  it  comes  to  a  boil,  when  it  must  instantly  be 
taken  off,  and  be  set  to  cool.    On  its  getting  about  half  cold, 
add  half  a  gill  of  Frendi  brandy ;  with  the  same  qi|antity  of 
noyeau,  ratafia,  or  other  delicate  liquor.     The  custard  being 
thus  made,  and  cold,  is  to  be  put  on  the  cakes ;  and,  over  lliat, 
some  apricot  and  raspberry  jam,  with  a  little  currant  jefly. 
Then,  as  a  grand  covering  for  the  whole,  whisk  to  perfect  firoth 
a  pint  of  cream,  with  the  white  of  an  egg,  a  couple  of  lumps 
of  sugar  rubbed  on  a  lemon  or  Seville  orange,  and  a  glass  or 
two  of  white  wine ;  skimming  off  the  firoth,  from  time  to'  time, 
with  a  pierced  spoon,  and  depositing  it  at  the  top  of  an  invert- 
ed sieve  placed  on  a  dish,  to  preserve  the  drainings,  that  they 
may  be  returned  and  whipped  up.     When  the  whole  is  tho- 
roughly whipped,  heap  it  as  high  as  possible  over  the  custard, 
&C.  and,  to  crown  the   whole,  sprinkle  or  garnish  the  top 
plentifully  with  those  minute  coloured  comfits,  called  harlequin 
seeds  or  nonpareils.     This,  it  is  presumed,  will  not  fail  to  be 
considered  as  a  grand  trifle.     It  is  easy,  by  retiendiing,  more 
or  less,  these  articles,  to  form  a  very  good  trifle,  on  this  plan, 
adapted  to  all  tastes,  circumstances,  and  occasions. 

Gooaeberty  or  AfpU  Trifle. 

Scald  such  a  quantity  of  either  of  these  fruits,  as,  when 
pulped  through  a  sieve,  will  make  a  thick  layer  at  the 
bottom  of  your  dish:  if  of  apples,  mix  the  rind  of  half  a 
lemon  grated  fine;  and  to  both  as  much  sugar  as  will  be 
pleasant* 

Mix  half  a  pint  of  milk,  half  a  pint  of  cream,  and  the 
yolk  of  an  egg ;  give  it  a  scald  over  the  fire,  and  stir  it  all  the 
time ;  do  not  let  it  boil ;  add  a  little  sugar  only,  and  let  it  grow 
cold.  Lay  it  over  the  apples  with  a  spogn;  and  then  put  on  it 
a  whip  made  the  day  before,  as  for  other  trifle. 

Devotuhire  Junket. 

This  Devonshire  dish,  which  is  little  else  than  curds  and 
whey,  enriched  with  the  fiivourite  scalded  cream,  is  thus  made 
«-*Pttt  into  a  bowl  any  quantity  of  new  milk  warm  as  firom  the 


PASTRY  AND  CONFBCTIOKARY.  489 

cefw,  and  tnni  it  with  rennet ;  then  add  some  scalded  cream, 
with  sugar  and  pounded  cinnamon  on  the  top/  and  serve  it  up 
without  breaking  or  disturbing  the  curd.  It  is,  also,  some- 
times sprinkled  over  with  small  harlequin  comfits. 

Snow  BaUi. 

Pare  as  many  apples  as  you  wish  to  have  snow -balls ;  and, 

aoooping  out  the  cores,  put  a  little  very  finely-shred  lemon 

rind,  about  half  a  clove,  or  a  morsel  of  cinnamon  or  mace, 

snd  a  bit  of  sugar,  in  the  place.    Then,  having  washed  with 

water,  and  soaked  in  milk,  rice  sufficient  to  cover  ihem,  put  into 

as  many  thin  cloths  as  there  are  apples,  enough  rice  completely 

to  surround  each,  tie  them  all  up  separately,  and  set  them  over 

the  fire  in  a  pot  of  cold  water.     They  will  require  to  be  kept 

boiling  somewhat  more  than  an  hour;    and  must  be  gently 

tamed  into  the  dish,  to  prevent  breaking  the  rice,  when  they 

will  appear  literally  as  white  as  snow.    They  may  be  served  up 

with  a  good  quantity  of  very  sweet  sauce,  composed  of  sugar 

and  butter,  a  little  grated  nutmeg,  beaten  cinnamon,  and  a 

glass  of  white  wine ;  or  with  plenty  of  sugar  and  melted  butter 

only.    These  snow  balls  have  a  very  pretty  appearance  at  table, 

and  may  be  made  extremely  cheap. 

Caraway  Comfits. 

In  order  to  fiuslitate  the  making  of  comfits,  a  confectioner's 
copper  preserving-pan  should  be  provided,  with  two  handles^ 
and  proper*  rings  or  pieces  of  iron  at  each  side,  for  the  admis- 
sion of  hooks  fastened  at  the  ends  of  a  cord.  This  cord,  or 
rope,  being  put  round  a  pulley  fixed  to  a  beam,  and  the  hooks 
thus  connected  with  the  pan,  it  swings  at  the  slightest  touch, 
and  enables  the  operation  to  be  more  readily  performed.  With 
a  little  management,  however,  such  shifts  may  be  made,  with 
other  culinary  vessels,  as  will  nearly  as  well  answer  the  pur- 
pose. The ''pan,  then,  being  in  readiness,  and  the  caraway 
seeds  cleansed  or  sifted,  so  as  to  be  entirely  free  from  dust, 
some  common  syrup  must  be  boiled  in  a  sauce-pan,  for  about  a 
quarter  of  an  hour;  and  then  have  the  finest  ifhite  starch, 
just  dissolved  or  softened  in  cold  water,  mixed  with  it.  In  the 
mean  time,  some  gum  arable,  dissolved  likewise  in  water,  must 
be  made  slightly  wann  in  another  sauce-pan;  and  the  pan. 


440  DOMBSTtC  COOKBKT«     ^ 

slang  as  dttscsribed;  or  as'  nealy  similar  as  can  be  oaatavmi,  is 
t^  have  a  charcoal  (iee  beneath  it,  placed  at  the'  bottom  c£  & 
large  tub^  so  as  to  receive  but  a  gentle  beat  When  all  is 
ready,  and  the  bottom. of  the  8winging«pan'  just  warm^ 
the  caraway  seeds  are  to  be  put  in,  a  ladleful  of  the  gum 
water  immediately  added,  and  the  seeds  briskly  stirred  and 
rubbed  with  the  haiids  till  they  feel  dry;  a  ladleful  of 
the  starch  syrup  is  then  to.  be  thrown  in,  and  stirred  in  tbe 
same  manner  till  dry.  This  process  must  be  more  or  less  re* 
peated>  according  to  the  size  or  goodness  of  the  comfits;  and, 
indeed,  the  proportions  of  sugar  and  starch  will  be  governed 
by  these  objects.  In  very  common  comfits,  there  is  scarcely 
any  sugar  in  the  first  coatings,  and  not  much  in  the  last;  the 
best  comfits,  on  the  contrary,  have  but  little  starch  even  at 
first,  and  the  syrup  is  boiled  higher  for  the  last  coats.  The 
gum  only  may  be  used  for  three  or  fo^ir  coatings,  and  then  the 
starch  and  sugar.  After  seven  or  ught  coatings  and  dpryings, 
they  are  to  be  set  in  the  stove;  and,  next  day,  nndergo  alike 
process.  This  is  to  be  daily  pursued,  till  they  are  of  the  re* 
quisite  size ;  which,  for  the  largest  and  best  sorts,  is  some- 
timea  repeated  fiye  qv  six  paocessive  days,  but  the  common 
caraway  comfits  may  easily  be  finished  at  once. 

Scotch  Comfits, 

These,  which  mi^  be  considered  as  among  the  largest  and 
best  sorts  pf  caraway  comfits,  must  not  only  be  gradually  and 
well  coated  with  rich  syrup,  but  should  have  a  quantity  of  rose 
or  orange-flower  water  introduced  both  with  the  starch  and  gum 
solutions. 

Cardamom  Comfits,  commonly  called  Sugar  Plums, 

.  Pick  out  all  the  clean  seeds  firom  the  husk^,  in  which  they 
are  comn^only  bought  at  tlfe  d^'ug^ist's  shops^  ajft^r  brea^ung 
the  skins  by  a  slight  heat  in,  the  ^vien^  or  over  a^stove;  then 
put  them  in  the  swinging  pan^  as  prepared  fo^  caraway  com- 
fits, and  proceed  in  the  same  way.  These  arq  usually  ^one  wit|i 
^uch  starch,  and  very  little  sugar-  ThjD  for^  pf  thp  seed 
makes  these  round,  in  the  same  manner  as  that  of  the  eacavay 
rend^s  the  others  obbng.  ... 


PASTUT  AND  CONFECTION  ART.  441 

Sarlejf  Sugar* 

Pat  some  common  or  clarified  syrup  into  a  saaoe-pan  with  a 
ifMrat,  such  as  for  melting  butter^  if  little  is  wanting  to  be 
made,  and  boil  it  till  it  comes  to  what  ia  called  carimel,  care- 
fully taking  off  whaterer  scum  may  arise ;  and,  having  pre- 
pared a  marble  stone^  either  with  hotter  or  6il,  jnst  sufficiently 
to  prevent  sticking,  pour  the  syrup  gently  along  the  marble, 
in  long  sticks  of  whatever  thickness  may  be  desired ;  twist  it, 
while  hot,  at  each  end,  and  let  it  remain  till  cold,  when  it  will 
be  fit  for  immediate  use.  The  rasped  rind  of  lemon,  boiled 
up  in  the  syrup,  gives  a  very  agreeable  flavour  to  barley-sugar ; 
and,  indeed^  the  best  is  commonly  so  prepared. 

Barley  Sugar  Drops. 

These  are  to  be  made  as  the  last  receipt.  Have  ready,  by 
the  time  the  sugar  is  boiled  sufficiently,  a  large  sheet  of  paper, 
with  a  smooth  layer  of  sifted  loaf-sugar  on  it; — pot  the  boiled 
sugar  into  a  ladle  that  has  a  fine  lip : — ^pour  it  out,  in  drops 
not  larger  than  a  shilling,  on  to  the  sifled  sugar ;  when  cold, 
fold  them  up  separately  in  white  paper. 

N.B.  Some  use  an  oiled  marble  slab  instead  of  the  sifted 
sugar. 

Ginger  Drops. 

These  drops  may  be  made  in  the  following  easy  manner : — 
Beat  in  a  marble  mortar  an  ounce  of  the  best  candied  orange- 
peel,  with  a  little  loaf-sugar,  and,  when  it  becomes  a  smooth 
'  paste,  add  half  a  pound  of  loaf-sugar,  and  half  an  ounce  of  the 
best  powdered  ging^.  Then,  with  a  little  water  to  dissolve 
the  sugar,  boil  the  whole  to  a  candy,  and  drop  it  off  from 
the  point  of  a  knife  on  writing  paper,  in  small  round  drops 
about  the  size  of  a  silver  two-pence.  When  quite  cold,  they 
wfll  come  off  the  paper,  and  are  to  be  kept  in  papered  boxes. 
Among  other  *good  qualities  of  ginger,  it  is  said  to  be  beneficial 
in  dinfness  of  sight. 

Peppermint  Drops. 

The  best  peppermint-drops  are  made  by  sifting  finely- 
powdered  loaf-sugar  into  lemon  juice  sufficient  to  make  it  of  a 
16  3l 


442  '  OOMfidflC  GOdKBRY. 

proper  consistence ;  then^  gently  drying  it  over  the  fire  for  a 
few  minutes,  and  stirring  in  about  fifteen  drops  of  oil  of  pep- 
permint for  each  ounce  of  sugar,  dropping  them  from  the  point 
of  a  knife,  like  the  finger-drops  in  the  precedin^^  article. 
Some»  instead  of  using  lemon-juice,  or  any  heat,  merely  mix 
up  the  sugar  and  oil  of  peppermint  with  the  whites  of  6gg8 ; 
beating  the  whole  well  together,  dropping  it  on  white  paper, 
and  drying  the  drops  gradually  at  a  distance  from  the  fire. 

Lemon  Drops, 

Grate  three  large  lemons,  with  a  large  piece  of  double- 
refined  sugar ;  then  scrape  the  sugar  into  a  plate,  add  half  a 
tea-spoonful  of  flour,  mix  well,  and  beat  it  into  a  light  paste 
with  the  white  of  an  egg.  Drop  it  upon  a  white  paper>  and 
put  them  into  a  moderate  oven  on  a  tin  plate. 

Ratafia  Drops. 

Blanch  and  beat  in  a  mortar  four  ounces  of  bitter,  and  two 
ounces  of  sweet  almonds,  with  a  little  of  a  pound  of  sugar 
sifted,  and  add  the  remainder  of  the  sugar,  and  the  whites  of 
two  eggs,  making  a  paste ;  of  which  put  little  balls,  the  size 
of  a  nutmeg,  on  wafer-paper,  and  bake  gently  on  tin  plates. 

Excellent  Gooseberry  Fool. 

Put  a  quart  of  green  gooseberries  into  a  stone  jar,  with  a 
little  Lisbon  or  powdered  loaf-sugar,  and  a  gill  of  water; 
place  the  jar  on  a  warm  stove,  or  in  a  sauce-pan  of  water 
over  the  fire.  When  the  fruit  is  quite  tender,  press  it  through 
a  colander  or  a  hair  sieve ;  and,  adding  sufficient  sugar^  let  it 
remain  till  it  gets  cold.  In  the  mean  time,  put  a  pint  of  cream 
or  new  milk  into  a  stew-pan,  with  a  little  rind  of  lemon,  half 
a  dozen  cloves^  a  stick  of  cinn&mon,  a  small  pinch  each  of 
coriander  and  angelica  seeds,  and  some  sugar ;  and  beat  the 
yolks  of  four  eggs  with  a  little  flour  and  water,  strain  to  them 
the  milk,  whisk  it  well  over  a  fire  to  prevent  curdliog>  and 
before  it  begins  to  boil  set  the  pan  which  contains  it  in  cold 
water,  stir  the  cream  well  for  two  or  three  minutes,  and  let  it 
stand  to  cool.  When  this  also  is  quite  cold,  mix  the  gootieher- 
ries  and  prepai'ed  cream  gradually  together ;  and,  adding  « 
little  grated  nutmeg,  trith  more  sugar  if  necessary,  serve  itop- 


PASTRY  AND  COMFBCTIONARV.  44^ 

A  very  good  gooseberry  fool  may  be  made  by  simply  preparing 
and  pulping  the  gooseberries  as  before ;  and  then  beating  jup 
the  yolk,  of  an  egg  with  a  little  sugar  aod  grated  nutmeg, 
stirred  gently  into  a  quart  of  boiled  milk,  over  a  slow  fire,  till 
it  begins  to  simmer,  taking  it  off,  adding  the  gooseberries  by 
degrees,  and  serving  it  up  when  cold.  A  sort  of  gooseberry 
fool,  made  by  merely  scalding  gooseberries  in  water  mixed  with 
treacle,  and  leaving  them  whole  in  the  syrup,  is  commonly 
sold,  daring  the  season,  in  the  streets  of  London ;  which  is 
much  relished  by  children,  and  by  no  means  either  unwhole- 
some or  unpalatable,  when  neatly  and  fairly  prepared. 

Apple  Fool. 

Stew  apples  as  directed  for  gooseberries,  and  then  peel  and 
pulp  thctfa.     Prepare  the  milk,  &c.  and  mix  as  before. 

Orange  Fool. 

Mix  the  juice  of  three  Seville  oranges,  three  eggs  well 
beaten,  and  a  pint  of  cream,  a  little  nutmeg  and  cinnainoQ, 
and  sweeten  to  your  taste  Set  the  whole  over  a  slow  fire,  and 
stir  it  till  it  becomes  as  thick  as  good  melted  butter,  but  it  must 
not  be  boiled ;  then  'pour  it  into  a  dish  for  eating  cold. 

Red  and  iVhite  Burnt  Almonds  or  Prawlongs. 

What,  in  England,  we  call  simply  burnt  almonds,  though 

covered  with  coatings  of  sugar,  the  French  distinguish  by  the 

s|»pellation  of  amandes  a-la-praline;  from  whence  has  arisen 

the  name  of  prawlings,  or  prawlongs,  as  most  other  articles  of 

this  sort  are  denominated  by  our  confectioners.    Burnt  almonds> 

or  rather  almond  prawlongs,  are  thus  prepared— >Sift  the  dust 

from  some  of  the  best  Jordan  almonds ;  and  rub  them  well  inn 

doth,  to  clean  them  properly,  though  they  are  not  to  be  scalded 

or  blanched ;  then  put  them  into  a  preserving-pan,  or  stew-pan, 

either  with  some  syrup,  or  their  weight  in  sugar,  and  a  little 

water.     Keep  them  on  the  fire,  continually  stirring  them  till 

they  erackle  and   fly  about,  and  the  sugar  begins  to  colour; 

then,  taking  them  off,  stir  them  gently  about  to  collect  the 

sugar,  put. them  on  a  sieve,   separate  from  each  other  those 

which  stick  together,  and  leave  them  about  two  hours  to  dry 

in  the  stove,  the  sun,  or  any  moderate  heat    After  this,  as 


444  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

they  should  always  have  two  coats  of  sugar,  prepare  amother 
pan  of  boiling  syrup^  put  them  in  again,  and  give  a  second 
coating  in  the  same  manner  as  the  first.  This  mode'  produces 
them  white ;  but,  in  order  to  make  red  burnt  almonds^  or  red 
ahnond  prawlongs,  mix  about  a  tea-cupful  of  water  with  suffi- 
cient cochineal  to  produce  a  good  red ;  and  putting  in  half  of 
it  with  the  first  boiling  syrup,  and  the  other  half,  adding  a 
little  more  cochineal,  with  that  for  the  last  coating,  they  will  be 
of  a  beautiful  and  lively  rosaceous  or  deep  crimson  colour. 

Pistachio  and. Filbert  Prawhngg,  Sfv.  Red  and  White. 

Pistachio  prawlongs,  both  red  and  white,  are  made  with 
pistachio  nut  kernels,  exactly  in  the  same  manner  as  the  red 
and  white  burnt  almonds  or  prawlongs.  Filbert  prawlongs, 
though  so  called,  are  seldom  made  with  any  thing  bat  Barce- 
lona nuts,  the  kernels  of  which  are  roasted  on  tin  or  copper 
sheets,  &c.  in  an  oven :  after  which,  they  are  treated  in  all 
respects  the  same,  for  both  colours,  as  the  other  prawlongs. 
Filberts,  of  course,  or  even  our  own  hazel  nuts,  might  easily 
be  done  in  the  like  manner. 

Orange  and  Lemon  Prawlongs. 

Cut  away  all  the  white  from  either  lemons;  or  Seville  or  China 
oranges,  the  process  being  precisely  the  same  for  each,  and  cot 
them  into  regular  pieces  of  about  three  quarters  of  an  inch 
in- length,  and  the  eighth  part  of  an  inch  in  width ;  and,  having 
a  proper  quantity  of  syrup  boiled  nearly  to  carimel  height,  stir 
in  the  bits  of  peel,  keeping  them  as  much  as  possible  separate, 
with  a  long  wooden  spoon,  off  the  fire,  till  they  become  quite 
cold.  Shake  them  in  a  iarge  sieve,  to  drain  through  any 
sugar  which  may  not  adhere,  and  keep  them  dry  in  papered 
boxes.  Orange -flowers,  and  many  other  articles,  may  be 
managed  in  a  similar  way. 

White-SUgared  Almonds. 
These  almonds  differ  from  the  prawlongs,  in  being  blanch- 
ed before  they  are  coated;  they  are  put  into  the  boiling 
syrup  for  a  moment  only  before  the  sugar  begins  to  change  its 
colour,  and  stirred  continually  as  long  as  it  sticks  to  the  pan. 
Should  it  cool  too  soon,  it  may  be  again  put  on  the  fire«  and 


PASTRY  AJND  CONFECTIONARY.  446 

have  the  almonds  rolled  in  it  es  before.  Sugared  slmoads  are 
seldom  coloured ;  but  it  is  easily  effected,  in  the  same  manner 
as  prawlongs,  comfiu,  &c.  Nuts,  or  filberts,  may  also  be 
sugared  after  the  above  method,  being  first  blanched. 

Raspberry  Postillay  an  elegant  Confection  made  in  Russia* 

This  sort  of  confection,  called  in  Russia  postilla,  or  postil« 
lar,  is  extremely  delicate,  and  there  most  highly  esteemed. 
Hitherto,  like  numerous  other  articles  in  this  collection,  it  has 
been  quite  unknown  in  England.  It  is,  however,  made  by  a 
▼ery  simple  process,  in  the  following  manner— Put  raspberries 
in  an  earthen  baking-pan  or  pot,  and  let  it  stand  all  night  in  a 
moderately- heated  oven.  -Mash  the  fruit  next  day,  prea|  it 
through  a  sieve,  add  about  a  quarter  of  the  quantity  of  honey, 
and  set  it  in  the  oven  for  another  night. 

Apple  Postilla. 

Bake  codlins,  or  any  other  sour  apples,  but  without  burn- 
ing them ;  pulp  them  through  a  sieve  into  a  bowl  or  pan, 
and  beat  them  with  a  wooden  spaddle  fbr  four  hours ;  then, 
adding  as  much  honey  as  will  sufficiently  sweeten  the  quantity 
of  fruit,  beat  it  at  least  four  hours  longer :  it  is  reckoned,  the 
longer  beaten  the  better.  Pour  on  a  cloth  spread  over  a  tray, 
a  thin  layer  of  the  mixture ;  and  bake  it  in  a  slow  oveu,  with 
bits  of  wood  placed  beneath  the  tray.  Tf  found,  on  taking  it 
out,  to  be  not  enough  baked  on  one  side,  set  it  again  in  the 
oven ;  and  when  quite  done,  turn  it,  place  on  it  a  fresh  layer 
of  the  mixture,  and  proceed  with  it  in  the  like  manner  till  the 
whole  be  properly  baked.  Apple  postilla  is  also  made  by  peel- 
ing the  apples  and  taking  out  the  cor^  after  they  are  baked, 
mixing  sugar  to  palate,  and  beating  it  up  with  a  wooden  spoon 
or  spaddle  till  all  is  of  a  froth ;  then  putting  it  into  trays,  and 
baking  it  for  two  hours  in  an  oven  moderately  hot.  After 
which,  another  layer  of  the  beaten  apples  is  added,  and 
powdered  loaf-sugar  spread  over.  It  may  be  either  in  thick  or 
thin  pieces.  Sometimes,  a  still  finer  sort  is  made,  by  beating 
yolks  of  eggs  to  a  froth,  and  then  mixing  it  with  the  a|>ple 
juice.  The  grand  point,  in  these  Russian  preparations,  is  that 
ef  long  perseverance  in  whipping  or  beating  up  the  fruits,  &c. 


446  OOMSSTIC  COOK^BY. 

Frosted  Codiins  und  Cretm. 

Boil  gently  some  fine  large  oodlins  in  spring  water,  with  m 
▼erj  little  roche  d<im ;  and  when  they  becxnae  wnnewbat  more 
than  haif  done,  peel  off  their  outside  skin,  rub  them  over  with 
oiled  butter,  and  sift  fine  loaf-sugar  plentifully  over  them. 
Place  them  on  a  tin  plate ;  let  it  stand  in  a  slow  oven  till  the 
sugar  on  the  codllns  has  a  frost»like  sparkling  appearance  ;  and 
serve  them  up  when  cold,  surrounded  with  finely  perfumed  tart 
cream.  If  a  dozen  or  more  codlins  thus  prepared  are  put  into 
a  trifle  glass,  having  a  fiower  or  other  pleasing  ornament  stuck 
on  the  top  of  each  codlin,  they  form  a  very  elegant  as  well  as 
excellent  dish  for  the  most  fashionable  tables. 

Curds  and  Cream, 

Put  three  or  four  pints  of  milk  into  a  pan  a  little  warm, 
and  then  add  rennet  or  gallino.  When  the  curd  is  come,  lade 
it  with  a  saucer  into  an  earthen  shape,  perforated,  of  any  form 
you  please.  Fill  it  up  as  the  whey  drains  off,  without  break- 
ing or  pressing  the  curd.  If  turned  only  two  hours  before 
wanted,  it  is  very  light ;  but  those  who  like  it  harder,  may 
have  it  so,  by  making  it  earlier,  and  squeezing  it.  Cream, 
milk,  or  a  whip  of  cream,  sugar,  wine,  and  lemon,  to  be  put 
in  the  dish,  or  into  a  glass  bowl,  to  serve  with  the  curd. 

A  Curd  Star. 

Set  a  quart  of  new  milk  upon  the  fire  with  two  or  three 
blades  of  mace ;  and  when  ready  to  boil,  put  to  it  the  yolks 
and  whites  of  nine  eg^s  well  beaten,  and  as  much  salt  as  will 
He  upon  a  small  knife*s  point.  Let  it  boil  till  the  whey  is  clear ; 
then  drain  it  in  a  thin  cloth,  or  hair  sieve;  season  it  with 
sugar,  and  a  little  cinnamon,  rose-water,  orange-fiower  water, 
or  white  wine,  to  your  taste ;  and  put  into  a  star  form,  or 
any  other.  Let  it  stand  some  hours  before  you  turn  it  into  a 
dish ;  then  put  round  it  thick  cream  or  custard. 

Lent  Potatoes. 

Beat  three  or  four  ounces  of  almonds,  and  three  or  four  bit* 
ter,  when  blanched,  putting  a  little  orange-fiower  water  to 
prevent  oiling ;  add  eight  ounces  of  butter,  four  eggs  well 
beaten  and  strained,  half  a  glass  of  raisin  wine,  and  sugar  to 


PA8TRV  AHD  COlTFBCTIOikARY.  44^ 

yeartMte.  B^at  tQ  well  till  quite  nnooth,  and  grate  in  three 
&mv€j  faiBeliitS;  Make  balls  of  the  above  with  a  little  fldnr, 
Hie  else  of  a  diestiut  i  threw  theiii  itito  a  atew^^pan  of  boiling 
lardy  and  boil  them  of  a  beaotifhl  yellow  brown.  Drain  them 
on  a  sieve. 

Serve  sweet  sance  in  a  boat,  to  eat  with  them. 

To  $uU  Codlmg. 

Wrap  each  ia  a  vin^leaf,  and  pack  them  close  in  a  nice 
saoee^pan ;  and  when  falL  poor  as  maeb  water  as  will  cover 
them.  Set  it  over  a  gentle  fire,  and  let  them  simmer  slowly 
till  done  enough  to  take  the  thai  Ain  off  when  cold.  Fkme 
them  in  a  dish,  with,  or  without  milk,  cream^  or  costard;  if 
the  latter^  there  should  be  no  racaia.  Dost  fine  sugar  over  thfe 
apples. 

StewedHblAm  Pippim. 

Sodop  out  the  core,  pare  them  very  thin;  aild  ai  jwl  do  it, 
throw  iMm  in  water,  ^or  every  pound  of  ftmi^  ms^e*  half  a 
pound  of  single-reftned  sug«r  iolo  sympr  with  apint  of  watery 
when  skihnmi^,  put  the  pippAris  k\^  and  stew  tQl  clears  Chen 
grate  lemon  «>ver,  and  serve  iti  the  tyrup.  Be  careful  asC 
to  let  them  break. 

They  are  an  elegant  and  good  dish  for  a  comer  or  dessert 

Blackcaps. 

The  best  black  caps  are  made  in  Che  feUowing  manafff-r- 
Take  the  finest  and  largest  bakii^  w  boiling  affiles ;  mid  eath 
ting  them  in  two,  but  without  paring  them,  extract  the  cores: 
then  pound  together  a  few  cloves,  with  loaf-sugar  and  grated 
lemon-peel,  wid  fill  up  the  space  which  the  core  has  occupied 
with  this  mixture  :  lay  each  half,  thus  closely  stuffed,  with  the 
flat  part  downward,  in  a  baking-dish ;  add  some  water,  in 
which  cinnamon  and  sugar  have  been  for  a  long  time  boiled 
toother ;  set  them  in  a  mdderate  oven,  taking  care  not  to  bake 
too  mudit  and*  when  done,  and  cold,  serve  them  up  with 
their  own  liquor  poured  over  them,  and  caravay  oemfits  in 
small  saucers.  They  are  sometimes  dressed  in  a  stew-pan 
closely  covered  up,  over  a  slow  fire,  instead  of  in  an  oven ;  the 
tops  being  afterwards  bhuiked  with  a  salamander :  they  are. 


448  DOMESTIC  COOKBBY. 

also,,  o&jen  served  up  with  the  comfits,  which  are  confidered  ma 
an  oid-fashioned  aoocmipaninient.  We  are  of  opinion,  however, 
that. they  have  been  too  inconsiderately  discarded,  smd  had 
better  be  i^n  taken  into  favour. 

Stewed  Pears, 

Pare  and  halve,  or  quarter,  large  pears,  according'  to  their 
size;  throw  them  into  water,  as  the  skin  is  taken  off,  before 
tiiey  are  divided,  to  prevent  their  turning  bbck.  Pack  them 
round  a  block)*tin  stew-pan,  and  sprinkle  as  much  angar  over 
as  will  make  them  pretty  sweet,  and  add  lemon-peel,  a  clove 
or  two,  and  some  allspice  cracked ;  just  cover  them  with  water, 
and  pat  in  some  red  liquor.  Cover  them  close,  and  stew 
three  or  four  hours ;  when  tender,  take  them  out,  and  poor 
the  liquor  from  them. 

Baked  Peon. 

These  ne^  not  be  of  a  fine  sort;  but  some  taste  better  than 
others,  and  often  those.that  are  least  fit  to  eat  raw.  Wipe,  but 
do  not  pare,  and  lay  them  on  tin-plates,  and  bake  them  in  a 
dow  oven.  When  enough  to.  bear  it,  flatten  th^m  widi  a  silver 
spoon.  When  done  through,  put  them  on  a  dish«  They 
should  be  baked  three  or  four  times,  and  very  gen  tly. 

Wine  Roll 

Soak  a  penny  French  roll  in  raisin  wine  till  it  will  hold  no 
more ;  put  it  in  the  dish,  and  pour  round  it  a  custard,  or  cream, 
sugar,  and  lemon-juice.    Just  before  it  is  served,  sprinkle  over 
it  some  nonpareil  comfits;  or  stick  a  few  blanched  sUt  almonds  . 
into  it. 

Sponge  biscuits  may  be  used  instead  of  the  roll. 


of  Frmt. 

To  the  pulp  of  any  scalded  fruit,  put  an  equal  weight  of 
sugar  sifted,  beat  it  two  hours,  then  put  it  into  little  white 
paper  forms,  dry  in  a  cool  oven,  tiim  the  next  day,  and  in 
two  or  three  days  box  them. 


PASTRY  AND  CONFBCTtONART*  449 

PRBSBRTXS. 

Presened  Peaches,  Apricot$,  Nectarines,  Plums,  MareUa 

Cherries,  Spc,  in  Brandy, 

Having  procared  the  peaches,  apricots,  nectarines,  or 
plams,  intended  to  be  preserved  in  brandy,  which  should  be 
quite  firee  from  spots,  and  not.  too  ripe,  cover  them  over  with 
paper,  and^^put  them  in  a  vessel  over  a  slow  fire;  when  they 
have  simmered  till  they  are  become  soft,  take  them  out,  put 
them  in  cloths  four  or  five  times  double,  and  cover  them  close- 
ly up.  In  the  mean  time,  being  prepared  with  a  proper  quan- 
tity of  French  brandy,  which  should  be  uncoloured,  rf  it  can 
be  so  obtained,  and  having  five  ounces  of  powdered  loaf-sugar 
dissolved  in  every  pint,  put  the  fruit  into  glasses,  fill  them  up . 
with  the  brandy  and  sugar,  and  close  them  up  with  bladder  and 
leather  coverings.  The  smaller  fruits,  such  as  Morella  cherries, , 
&C.  are  not  to  be  boiled,  but  put  in  either  fresh  from  the  tree, 
or  as  preserved  wet  with  sugar.  As  the  fruits  imbibe  a  con- 
siderable quantity  of  liquor,  fresh  brandy  and  sugar  must  be 
frequently  added  to  keep  the  glasses  filled  up. 

Curious  and  simple  manner  of  keeping  Apricots,  Peaches,  Nec^ 
tarines,  Phans,  S^c.  and  even  Figs,  fresh  all  the  Tear. 

Beat  well  up  together  equal  quantities  of  honey  and  com-^ 
mon  water,  pour  it  into  an  earthen  vessel,  put  in  the  fruits  all 
fireshly  gathered,  and  cover  them  up  quite  close.  When  any 
of  the  fruit  is  taken  out,  wash  it  in  cold  water,  and  it  is  fit  for 
immediate  use. 

Wei  Sugar-preserved  Fhtits  in  Brandy. 

Take  preserved  Mogul  plums,  green  gages,  grapes,  or  any 
ether  fruits  which  have  been  preserved  wet  in  sugar ;  and  after 
draining  the  syrup  from  them,  put  them  in  the  glasses,  and 
fill  them  up  with  brandy  in  which  sngar»  irfter  the  rate  of  three 
ounces  for  every  pint,  has  been  previousljr  dissolved :  then  keep 
thm  closely  covered  up,  in  the  same  maimer  as  the  other 
brandy 


Manner  of  preserving  the  deUcums  dried  Pears  of  Rheims. 

By  this  admirable  method  the  richest  and  most  perishable 
pears  may  be  preserved  for  as  long  a  time  as  those  which  ir 
16  Sm 


4M  I>OMBSTIC  COOEBRY. 

their  natural  state  are  called  the  best  keepers,  but  which  are 
commonly  hard  and  austere.  Though  our  pears,  in  genera), 
do  not  equal  those  of  France,  we  have  some  which  are  truljr 
excellent ;  and  if  the  best  wei-e  preserved  in  the  following 
irimmer,  they  might  fall  very  little  short,  perhaps,  even  of  the 
fltanous  dried  peats  of  Rheims  itself,  and  would  keep  any  length 
of  time.  Peel  thepeArs,  cut  the  stalks  short,  throw  them  into 
cold  water^  and  boil  them  tHl  they  feel  soft  to  the  finger ;  then 
take  them  out  with  a  skimmer,  and  put  them  again  into  cold 
water.  When  they  have  been  taken  out  and  drained,  to  half 
ahuiidred  of  pears  put  a  pound  of  loaf-sugar  dissolved  in  two 
quans  of  water,  and  let  them  soak  a  couple  of  hours.  Then 
place  them  on  wires,  with  their  stalks  inward  ;  and  keep  them 
•di  hight  in  an  oven  after  the  bread  has  been  drawn,  or  a  similar 
state  of  moderate  heat  Next  day,  again  soak  the  pears  in 
the  sugar  and  water,  and  a  second  nfght  keep  them  in  the  oven. 
This  process  must  be  repeated  four  times ;  taking  care  to  let 
them  remain  in  the  oven,  the  last  time,  till  they  are  perfectly 
dHed :  when,  being  kept  in  a  sufficiently  dry  place,  they  will 
remain  good  for  several  years. 

Best  method  of  bottling  Gooseberries  and  other  Fmita/or 

keeping. 

The  gooseberries,  when  a  little  more  than  half  grown,  jnust 
be  gathered  on  a  fine  dry  day ;  and,  being  headed  and  tailed, 
without  having  their  skins  injured,  or  receiving  any  bruises, 
are  to  be  put  into  the  proper  wide-mouthed  glass  bottles, 
shaking  them  gently  d6wn  till  each  bottle  is  completely  full. 
Having  gently  corked  the  bottles  with  new  and  sound  corks, 
set  them  in  a  moderate  oven,  let  them  renudn  till  they  aite  well 
heated  through,  beat  the  corks  in  tight,  cut  off  the  topa,  luem 
them  up  close,  and  keep  them  in  a  dry  and  cool  plaoe>  Dam- 
spns,.  plums/  cherries,  currants.  &c.  may  be  pres^ved  in  the 
same  manner,  without  sugar ;  but  neither  of  them  muat  be 
gathered  in  damp  weather,  or  have  their  skins  ftt  all  broken, 
as  they  would  in  such  cases  soon  become  mouldy.  Spine  bury 
the  bottles  in  the  earth ;  but  in  any  cool  and  dry  place,  they  A 
will  keep  good  the  whole  year.  " 


PASTRY  AND  COKFBCTIOMARY.  461 

Fine  Wet  and  Dry  Sweetmeat  in  the  farm  of  Hope. 

After  catting  or  splitting  in  quarters  some  of  the  finest 
green  gooseberries,  but  without  entirely  dividing  them,  and 
having  carefully  taken  out  all  their  seeds^  run  a  needleful  of 
white  thready  knotted   at  the  end,  through  the  end  of  one  of 
the  split  gooseberries :  then   string  another  gooseberry  in  the 
same  manner,  letting  part  of  it  enter  the  first ;  and  so  pro- 
ceed with  others,  till  there  are  enough  to  compose  the  form  of 
fine  groen  'hops,  which   usually  takes  about  seven  or  eight 
gooB«*berne6,   according  to  their  size.     A   sufficient  number 
beinft  thus  made,  and  the  thread  of  each  well  fastened  at  the 
end,  they  are  to  be  put  into  cold  water,  scalded,  and  left  about 
three  days  tii  their  own  liquor^  till  they  begin  to  ferment ;  when 
tiiey   must  be  put  into  fresh  water  with  a  little  dugar^  and 
again  heated,  but  by  no  means  boiled.      Being  thus  greened^ 
droit!  from  them  all  the  liquor,  and  place  them  regularly  in  an 
earthen  pan ;  then,  boiling  up  some  thin  syrup,  or  makirtg  it 
with  the  last  liquor  and  a  proper  quantity  of  loaf-sugar,  pour  it 
over  the  gooseberry  hops.     Boil  up  the  syrup  daily  in  this 
manner,  and  continue  to  pour  it  hot  over  them,  for  a  week ; 
and  then,  putting  them  up  in  an  earthen  pan  covered,  keep 
them  for  use.     They  may  be  eaten  wet  from  the  syrup  ;  but 
have  a  more  pleasing  appearance  when  they  are  prepared  dry 
as  f<^owfl — I>ain  all  the  syrup  from  them,  place  them  on  the 
bettom  of  a  wire  sieve,  dust  some   sifted  su^ar  over   them 
through  a  bag  or  cloth,  and  put  the  sieve  into  a  stove.     Let 
them  remain  till  they  are  quite  dry,  which  will  be  in  three  or 
four  days  ;  turning  them,  in  the  mean  time,  and  changing  the 
sieve  once  eveiy  day      Then,  lining  a  box  neatly  with  paper, 
put  them  in  ;  placing  a  bit  of  writing-paper  over  evpry  layer 
ef'tbefniit. 

Grean,  or  Red  Gaateberriee  preserved  Wet. 

Scald, 'but do  not  boil,  the  finest  and  largest  picked  goose- 
btnies,;  then  pat  them  into  a  pan,  and  let  them  remain  three 
days  in  their  own  liquor.    Having  now  drained  the  liquor  from 
them,  put  them  into  aiaother  pan  with  a  little  sugar,  as  describ- 
r  ed  in  die  fovegoing  artiele,  and  proceed  exactly  in  the  same 

manher..thrcmghout  the  remaining  process  for  wet  preserving 
g(HNd)eny  hops.    They  may,  also,  be  dried  in  a  similar  way; 


462  DOMESTIC  COOKSET. 

but  tlu8  U  seldom  or  never  done.  Pat  them  up  in  pots 
fully  covered^  and  keep  them  firee  from  damp.  If  red  goose* 
berries  be  used,  the  colour  may  require  heightening  with  codii* 
neal ;  or,  if  amber,  with  saffron. 


Red  or  White  Cmranis  presertfed  whok,  in  Bumches,  Wet 

Dry. 

Pick,  with  a  pin,  all  the  stones  or  seedsout  of  some  of  the 
finest  and  largest  currants  in  bunches,  with  as  little  laceration 
of  the  skin  as  possible.  Bind  half  a  dosen  of  these  bundtes^ 
with  thread,  to  a  bit  of  stick  about  two  inches  long,  and  lay 
them  on  an  inverted  sieve.  In  the  mean  time,  having  a  good 
syrup  over  the  fire,  when  it  has  boiled  a  quarter  of  an  hoar 
put  in  a  few  bunches,  not  more  than  suflkient  to  cover  the  bot- 
tom of  the  preserving-pan,  let  diem  have  half  a  dosen  boilt, 
and  take  off*  the  scum  with  stiff  paper.  Then  put  them  into 
pots,  which  must  previously  be  well  dried;  and,  where  quite 
convenient,  pour  over  the  fruit  some  apple,  or  other  jeSly.  If 
wanted  to  be  afterwards  dried,  take  out  some  of  the  bunchee, 
and  place  them  in  a  stew-pan,  or  preserving-pan,  over  the  fire 
to  warm ;  then  draining  from  them  all  the  syrup,  lay  them  oa 
a  wire  sieve,  dust  some  sifted  sugar  over  them  through  a  cloth, 
and  place  the  sieve  in  a  stove.  The  sieve  must  be  changed^ 
and  the  bunches  turned,  every  day ;  and,  when  they  have  stood 
three  or  four  days,  and  are  become  quite  dry,  they  are  to  be 
put  into  papered  boxes  like  other  dried  sweetmeats. 

Preserved  Strawberries. 

Get  the  largest  and  finest  strawberries,  fresh  gathered  in 
very  dry  weather,  and  when  there  has  been  no  rain  for  at  least 
two  preceding  days ;  leave  their  stalks  on,  and  lay  them  sepa- 
rately on  an  earthen  or  china  dish.  Having  lufted  twice  their 
weight  of  double-refined  sugar  over  them,  bruise  a  few  of  the 
over-ripe  berries,  and  put  them  in  a  basin,  with  their  weight  of 
sifted  sugar.  Cover  the  basin,  and  set  it  in  a  stew-pan  of 
boiling  water,  till  the  juice  comes  out  and  thickens ;  then  strain 
it  through  muslin  into  a  preserving-pan,  boil  it  up,  skim  it 
carefully,  and  let  it  stand  to  cooL  Put  the  whole  strawberries 
into  the  syrup,  and  set  them  over  the  stove  tiU  they  get  a  little 
warm ;  then  take  them  off  to  coolj  and  again  beat  thm  a  little 


PASTRY  AND  CONVBCTIOKARY.  463 

■Mure.  This  must  be  repetted  sevend  times,  till  tfaey  become 
quite  clear :  the  hottest  degree  however  must  not  amount  to  a 
boil.  If  at  all  likely  to  break,  they  must  instantly  be  taken 
fipom  the  fire.  When  quite  cold,  put  them  into  pots  or  glasses; 
and,  if  intended  for  long  keeping,  pour  a  little  apple  jelly  oyer 
them.  They  eat  deliciously,  served  with  thin  cream  in  glasses^ 
either  iced  or  plain.  Strawberries  may  likewise  be  excellently 
preserved,  so  as  to  retain  tbrir  full  flavour,  by  putting  them, 
when  fresh  gathered,  into  a  gooseberry  bottle,  strewed  with 
nfted  loaf-sugar ;  and  filled  up  with  Madeira,  sherry,  or  fine 
old  mountain  wine. 

Green  Gaget  freserved  in  Symp. 

Take  the  gages  when  nearly  ripe,  cut  the  stalks  about  half 
an  inch  from  the  fruit,  ^put  them  into  cold  water  with  a  lump 
of  alum  about  the  size  of  a  walnut ;— set  them  on  a  slow  fire 
tin  they  come  to  a  simmer.  Take  them  from  the  fire,  and  put 
them  into  cold  water ; — drain,  and  pack  them  close  into  a  pre- 
serving-pan, pour  over  them  enough  clarified  sugar  to  cover 
them,— simmer  them  two  or  three  minutes  ;— set  them  by  in 
an  earthen  pan  till  next  day,  when  drain  the  gages,  and  boil 
the  syrup  with  more  sugar  till  quite  thick,— put  in  the  gages 
and  simmer  them  three  minutes  more,  and  repeat  it  for  two 
days,-— when  b^il  clarified  sugar  to  a  blow,  place  the  gages  into 
glasses^  and  pour  the  syrup  over;  and  when  cold,  tie  over  a 
bladder,  and  upon  that  a  leather:  and  should  you  want  any  for 
drying,  drain  and  dry  them  on  a  wire  sieve  in  a  stove  or  slow 
oven. 

Ajfrieo/U  or  egg  plums  may  be  done  in  the  same  way. 

Preterved  Dmntans. 

Put  your  damsons  into  a  skillet  over  the  fire  with  as  much 
water  as  will  cover  thetn.  When  they  have  boiled,  and  the 
liquor  is  pretty  strong,  strain  it  out,  and  add  to  every  pound 
of  damsons  wiped  clean,  a  pound  of  single  refined  sugar.  Put 
one  third  of  your  sugar  into  the  liquor,  set  it  over  the  fire, 
and  when  it  simmers  put  in  the  damsons.  Let  them  have  one 
good  boil,  then  take  them  off,  and  cover  them  up  dose  for 
half  an  hour.  Then  set  them  on  again,  and  let  them  simmer 
ever  the  fiie  after  turning  them.   Then  take  them  out,  put  them 


454  DOIiBSTIC  GOOKKRY* 

iBio  a  ba^in,  stff  w  all  the  sugar  that  was  l«ft  on  l)heiD»  and  poor 
the  hot  liqu<nr  o^rer  them.  Cover  them  up,  kt  diem  stand  tiU 
the  next  day,  and  then  boil  them  up  again  till  they  are  enough* 
Then  take  them  up,  and  put  them  into  pots;  boil  the  liquor 
till  it  jellies,  and  iirhefi  it  is  almost  cold,  pout  it  on  them. 
Cover  them  with  paper^  tie  them  close,  and  set  them  in  a  dry 
place. 

Tq  hup  Oranges  or  Lemons  for  Puddings, 

When  you  squeeze  the  fruit,  throw  the  outside  in  water, 
without  the  pulp;  let  them  remain  in  the  same  afortaiglit, 
adding  no  more ;  boil  them  tlierein  till  tender,  strain  it  from 
them,  and  when  they  are  tolerably  dry,  throw  them  into  any 
jar  of  candy  you  may  have  remaining  from  old  sweetmeats;  or, 
if  you  have  none,  boil  a  small  quantity  of  syrup  of  common 
loaf-'Sugar  and  water,  and  put  over  them ;  in  a  week  or  tea 
days  boil  them  gently  in  it  till  they  look  clear,  and  that  they 
may  be  covered  with  it  in  the  jar.  You  may  cut  each  half  of 
the  fruit  in  two,  and  they  will  oocupy  smaU  space. 

To  preserve  Jgrgntn/el  Pears  most  beautifuUym 

Pare  them  very  thin,  and  simmer  in  a  thin  syrup ;  let  them 
lie  a  day  or  two.  Make  the  syrup  richer,  and  simmer  again; 
and  repeat  this  till  they  ate  clear ;  then  drain,  and  dry  them  in 
Ae  sun  or  a  cool  oven  a  very  little  time.  They  may  be  kept  in 
i^fTup,  and  dried  as  wanted,  which  makes  them  more  moist  and 
rich. 

To  keep  Currants. 

'  The  bottles  being  perfectly  clean  and  dry,  let  the  currants 
be  cut  from  the  large  stalks  with  the  smallest  bit  of  stalk  to 
each,  that  the  fruit  not  being  wounded,  no  moisture  may  be 
anioi^  them.  It  is  necessary  to  gather  them  when  the  weather 
is  quite  dry ;  and  if  the  servant  can  be  depended  upon,  it  is 
best  to  cut  them  under  the  trees,  and  let  them  drop  gently  into 
the  bottles. 

To  keep  Gooseberries. 

Before  they  become  too  large,  let  tliem  be  gathered,  and 
take  care  not  to  cut  them  in  taking  off  the  stalks  and  huds. 


PASTRT  AND  CONFBCTIOIVART.  46^ 

Fill  wide^nKKMbtd  bottles  j  put  the  ciMrks  loosely  in,  atid  set 
tbe  bottles  up  to  the  nedc  in  wmter  in  a  boiler.  When  the  fruit 
looks  scalded,  take  them  out ;  and  when  perfectly  cold,  cork 
oloBe,  aad  rosin  the.  top.  Dig  a  trenich  m  a  part  of  the  garden 
lesut  used^  sufficiently  deep  for  all  the  bottles  to  stand,  and  let 
the  earth  be  thrown  over,  to  cover  them  a  foot  and  a  half. 
When  a  frost  comes  on,  a  little  fresh  litter  from  the  stable  will 
prevent  the  ground  from  hardening  so  that  the  fruit  cannot  be 
dug  up.  Or,  scald  as  above;  when  cold>  fiU  the  bottles  with 
oold  water»  cork  them,  and  keep  tbem  in  a  damp  or  dry  place; 
they  will  not  be  spoiled* 

To  keep  Daauotu  for  Winter  Pies. 

Put  them  in  small  stone  jars,  or  wide-mouthed  bottles ;  set 
lliem  up  to  their  necks  in  a  boiler  of  cold  water,  and  lighting  a 
fire  under,  scald  them.     Next  day,  when  perfectly  cold,  fill 

» 

up  with  spring  water;  cover  them. 

DRYING  AND  CANDYING. 

Dried  Cherries. 

Take  large  Kentish  cherries,  not  too  ripe, — pick  off  tha< 
stalks,  and  take  out  the  stones  with  a  quill,  cut  nearly  as  for  a 
pen  ;  to  three  pounds  of  which,  take  three  pounds  or  pints  of 
clarified  sugar, — boil  it  to  the  degree  of  bloum  ;-— put  in  the) 
cherries,  give  them  a  boil,  and  bet  them  by  in  an  earthen  psa. 
till  next  day,  when  strain  the  syrup,— *add  more  sugar,  and 
boil  it  of  a  good  consistence;  put  the  cherries  in,  and  boil 
them  five  minutes,  and  set  thetn  by  another  day  :--^repeal  the 
boiling  two  more  days,  and  wheu  wanted,  drain  tbem  some  time«i 
and  lay  them  on  wire  sieves  to  dry  in  a  stove,  or  nearly  c6ld 
oven. 

Dried  Apricots* 

Take  as  many  apricots  as  will  amount  to  about  a  pound 
weight,  pare  and  stone  them,  and  then  put  them  into  a  pre- 
serving-pan. Pound  and  sift  half  a  pound  of  dnoble  re&ed 
sugar,  strew  a  little  among  them,  and  lay  the  rest  over  them*. 
When  they  have  been  twenty^our  hours  in  this  state,  turn  them 
three  or  Sow  tinea  in  the  syrup,  and  then  boil  them  pretty 


4M  DOMESTIC  COOK£BT« 

quick  till  they  look  defer.  When  they  are  cold,  take  them  out, 
and  lay  them  on  glasses.  Then  put  them  into  a  stove;,  and 
turn  them  the  first  day  every  half  hourj  the  second  day  every 
hour,  and  so  on  till  they  are  perfectly  dry.  Put  them  into 
boxes  ooveredj  and  set  them  by  lor  use. 

Dried  Peaeh^i* 

Pare  and  stone  some  of  the  finest  peaches  you  can  get  • 
then  put  them  ihto  a  sauce-pan  of  boiling  water,  let  them  boil 
till  they  are  tender,  and  then  lay  them  on  a  sieve  to  drain.  Put 
them  again  into  the  same  sauce-pan,  and  cover  them  with  their 
own  weight  in  sugar.  Let  them  lie  two  or  three  hours,  and 
then  boil  them  till  they  are  dear,  and  the  syrup  pretty  thick. 
Cover  them  dose,  and  let  them  stand  all  night ;  scald  them 
well,  and  then  take  them  off  to  cool.  When  they  are  quite 
odd,  set  them  on  again  till  they  are  thoroughly  hot,  and  cob« 
tinue  this  for  three  or  four  days.  Then  lay  them  oa  plates, 
and  turn  them  every  day  till  they  are  quite  dry. 

Green  Gt^e  Pbim$  dried. 

Make  a  thin  syrup  of  half  a  pound  of  single-refined  sugar, 
skim  it  wdl,  slit  a  pound  of  plums  down  the  seam,  and  put 
them  into  the  syrup.  Keep  them  scalding  hot  till  they  are  ten* 
der,  and  take  osre  they  are  well  covered  with  syrup,  or  they 
will  lose  their  colour.  Let  them  stand  all  night,  and  then  make 
a  rich  syrup  thus :  To  a  pound  of  double-refined  sugar  put  two 
spoonfuls  of  water,  skim  it  wdl,  and  boil  it  dmost  to  a  candy. 
When  it  is  cold,  drain  your  plums  out  of  the  first  syrup,  and 
put  them  into  the  thick  sjrrup;  but  be  careful  to  let  the  syrup 
cover  them.  Set  them  on  the  fire  to  scdd  till  they  look  dear, 
and  then  put  them  into  a  cbiiia  bowl.  When  they  liave  stood 
a  week,  take  them  out,  and  lay  them  on  china  dishes. 
Then  put  them  into  a  stove,  and  turn  them  once  a  day  till  they 
are  dry. 

Dried  Damtons, 

Gather  yoer  damsons  when  they  are  full  ripe,  spread  them 
on  a  coarse  doth,  and  set  them  in  a  very  cod  oven.  Let  them 
stand  a  day  or  two,  and  if  they  are  not  then  properly  dried, 
put  them  in  for  a  day  or  two  longer.    Then  take  them  out,  lay 


PASTRY  AND  CONFECTIONARY.  467 

tlieiii  in  a  dry  place,  and  they  will  eat  like  fteth  plums^  though 
evea  in  the  midat  of  winter* 

Dried  Applei, 

Put  them  in  a  cool  oven  six  or  seven  times,  and  flatten  them 
by  degrees,  and  gently,  when  soft  enough  to  bear  it.  If  the 
oven  be  too  hot  they  will  waste ;  and  at  first  it  should  be  very 
oool. 

The  biflin,  the  minshul  ctab,  or  any  tart  apples,  are  the 
sorts  for  drying. 

To  candy  any  sort  of  FruiL 

When  finished  in  the  syrup,  put  a  layer  into  a  new  sieve, 
and  dip  it  suddenly  into  hot  water,  to  take  off  the  syrup  that 
hangs  about  it;  put  it  on  a  napkin  before  the  fire  to  drain,  and 
then  do  some  more  in  the  sieve.  Have  ready-sifted  double  re- 
lined  sugar,  which  siit  over  the  fruit  on  all  sides  till  quite 
white.  Set  it  on  the  shallow  end  of  sieves  in  a  lighdy-warm 
oven,  and  turn  it  two  or  three  times.  It  must  not  be  cold  till 
dry.     Watch  it  carefully,  and  it  will  be  beautiful. 

Lemon  and  Orange  PeeU  candied. 

Cut  your  lemons  or  oranges  long-ways,  take  out  all  the 
pulp,  and  put  the  rinds  into  a  pretty  strong  salt  and  hard  water 
for  six  days.  Then  boil  them  in  a  large  quantity  of  spring 
water  till  they  are  tender.  Take  them  out,  and  lay  them  on  a 
hair  sieve  to  drain.  Then  make  a  thin  syrup  of  fine  loaf* 
sugar,  a  pound  to  a  quart  of  water.  Put  in  your  peels,  and 
boil  them  half  an  hour,  or  till  they  look  clear;  and  have  ready 
a  thick  syrup,  made  of  fine  loaf-sugar,  with  as  much  water  as 
will  dissolve  it  Put  in  your  peels,  and  boil  themrover  a  slow 
fire  till  you  see  the  syrup  candy  about  the  pan  and  peels. 
Then  take  them  out,  and  grate  fine  sugar  all  over  them.  Lay. 
them  on  a  hair  sieve  to  drain,  and  set  them  in  a  stove,  or  be- 
fore the  fire  to  dry. 

Orange  and  Lemon  Chips. 

Pare  quite  thin  as  many  oranges  or  lemons  as  may  be  re- 
quired, leaving  very  little  white  on  the  peel ;  and,  as  the  rinds 
17  Sn 


458  BOICESTIC  COOKBHY. 

are  paredoff,  throw  them  into  spring  water.     Boil  ihem  in  tbfs 
water  till  they  are  tender ;  still  pouring  in  fV^h  water,  as  the 
former  boils  away.     Then  make  a  thin  syrup,  with  part  of  the 
water  they  were  boiled  in ;  and,  when  made,  add  the  rinds^ 
lettuig  them  just  boil  thereiD.     They  are  then  to  be  taken  oSF, 
and  suffered  io  remain  in  this  83rrap  three  or  four  days :  after 
which,  they  must  be  again  boiled  in  it,  tili  the  syrup  begins  to 
draw  in  threads  between  the  fingers;  when  they  must  immedi- 
ately be  ^ken  off  the  fire/  and  drained  in  a  colander.    A  few 
only  must  be  taken  out  at  a  time ;  because,  if  they  cool  too 
fast,  it  will  be  difficult  to  get  the  syrup  from  them :  this,  how* 
ever,  is  best  done/  by  passing  every  piece  of  peel  through  the 
fingers,  and  laying  them  all  singly  on  a  wire  sieve,  with  the 
rind  uppermost.     The  sieve  may  be  set  in  a  stove,  or  befi»re 
the  fire,  if  the  weather  be  not  warm ;  but,  in  summer,  the 
8un  is  sufficiently  hot  to  dry  them.     About  three  pounds  of 
sugar  will  make  syrup  enough  for  the  peels  of  twenty-five 
large  Seville  oranges. 

Candied  Ginger. 

Take  an  ounce  of  race  ginger  grated  fine,  a  pound  of  loaf- 
sugar  beat  fin^,  tod  put  them  into  a  preserving-pan  with  as 
much  water  as^  will  dissolve  the  sugar.  Stir  them  well  together 
over  a  very  slow  fire  till  the  sugar  begins  to  boil.  Then  stir  in 
another  pound  of  sugar  beat  fine,  and  keep  stirring  it  till  i| 
grows  thick.  Then  take  it  off  the  fire,  and  drop  it  in  cakes 
upon  earthen  dishes.  Set  them  in  a  warm  place  to  dry^  and 
they  will  be  hard  and  brittle,  and  look  white. 

Candied  Horehound, 

I^et  your  horehound  be  boiled  in  water  till  the  juice  be 
quite  extracted.  Tal^e  your  sugar,  and^  boil  it  up  to  a  fisather ; 
then  add  your  juice  to  die  sugar/  an4  let  it  boil  till  it  ia  again 
the  same  height.  Stir  it  with  a  spoon  against  the  sides  of  your 
sugar-pan,  till  it  begins  to  grow  thick ;  then  poor  it  out  into  a 
paper  case  that  is  dusted  with  fine  sugar,  and  cut  it  into  squares. 
You  may  dry  the  horehound,  and  put  it  into  the  sugar  finely 
powdered  and  sifted. 


PASTRY  AND  CONFECTIONARY.  AM 

Candied.  AhiMmd  Cake f  or  Qattau  Noga, 

Take  iOkne  fine  powder  sugar,  put  it  into  joar  stew-pan, 
stir  it  over  the  fire  till  the  sugar  is  nearly  dissolved ;  have 
veadj  half  a  pound  of  almcrnds  sliced  and  pardied.  Pat  them 
into  the  sugar  you  have  over  the  fire,  and  keep  stirring  them 
-wa^l  about  till  your  afanonds  are  a  nice  brown;  take  a  jelly* 
VKHild  or  stew-pan,  oil  it  well,  and  put  your  almonds  into  it ; 
keep  tbem  well  up  to  the  sides,  and  when  cold,  you  may  turn 
it  oat  to  cover  a  burnt  cream  or  boiled  custard ;  or  it  may  be 
served  up  just  as  it  is.  Sometimes  they  are  ornamented  Uko 
Savoy  cakes,  and  look  very  handsome. 

Candied  Rhubarb  Cakes. 

Take  an  ounce  of  rhubarb  in  powder,  an  outice  of  fine 
powder  ginger,  eighteen  ounces  of  sugar,  three  drops  of  oil 
of  peppermint ;  boil  ybur  sugar  up  to  a  feather,  then  mix  all 
tke  ingredients,  stirring  them  till  it  begins  to  grain.  Have 
ready  a  square  paper  case  sugared  with  fine  powder  sugar: 
when  cold  cut  them  in  square  pieces. 

Apple  Marmalade. 

Scald  apples  till  they  will  pulp  from  the  core  :  then  take  an 
equal  weight  of  sujfar  in  large  lump;;,  just  dip  them  in  water, 
and  boiling  it  till  it  can  be  well  skimmed,  and  is  a  thick  syrup, 
put  to  it  the  pulp,  and  simmer  it  on  a  quick  fire  a  quarter  of 
an  hour.  Grate  a  little  lemon  peel  before  boiled,  but  if  too 
much  it  will  be  bitter. 

Orange  Marmalade. 

Rasp  the  oranges,  cut  out  the  pulp,  then  boil  the  rinds  very 
tender,  and  beat  fine  in  a  marble  mortar.  Boil  three  pounds  of 
loaf-sugar  in  a  pint  of  water,  skim  it,  and  add  a  pound  of  the 
rind ;  boil  fast  till  the  syrup  is  very  thick,  but  stir  it  carefully ; 
then  put  a  pint  of  the  pulp  and  juice,  the  seeds  having  been 
removed,  and  a  pint  of  apple-liquor ;  boil  all  gently  until  well 
jellied,  which  it  will  be  in  about  half  an  hour.  Put  it  into 
small  pots. 

Lemon  marmalade  do  in  the  same  way ;  they  are  very,  good 
and  elegant  sweetmeats.  %W 


4M  DOMESTIC  COOtt^RY^ 

TYoHSpareut  MarmalaA. 

Cut  the  palest  Seville  oranges  in  quarters,  take  the  pulp  oat, 
and  put  it  in  a  basin,  pick  out  the  seeds  and  skins.  Let  tlicf 
outsides  soak  in  water  with  a  little  salt  all  nigh t»  then  boil  them 
in  a  good  quantity  of  spring  watet*  till  tender ;  drain,  and  cut 
them  in  verj  thin  slices,  and  put  them  to  the  pulp ;  and  to  every 
poundy  a  pound  and  a  half  of  double-refined  sugar  beaten  fine  ; 
boil  them  together  twenty  minutes,  but  be  careful  not  to  break 
the  slices.  If  not  quite  clear,  simmer  five  or  six  ministes 
longer.  It  must  bestirred  all  the  time  very  gently.  When 
cold,  put  it  into  glasses. 

Damson  Cheese ,  and  refined  Damson  Cheeses  or  Biscuits. 

Though  it  might  be  difficult  to  maintain  the  propriety  of 
these  names  for  such  articles,  they  are  both  very  agreeable  deli- 
cacies, and  are  thus  easily; and  by  no  means  expensively  pre- 
pared :— Bake  any  quantity  of  fine  picked  and  clean  ripe  dam- 
sons, in  a  deep  earthen  pan  or  jar,  covered  over  with  paper, 
till  they  are  quite  soft,  in  a  slow  oven ;  and,  rubbing  them, 
while  hot,  through  a  colander,  put  the  juice  and  pulp  into  a 
stew-pan,  with  powdered  loaf-sogar  to  palate,  and  boil  them 
at  least  two  hours  and  a  half  over  a  gentle  fire,  frequently 
stirring  the  mass  till  it  becomes  quite  thick  and  stifi*.  In  the 
mean  time,  having  cracked  and  blanched,  or  rather  skinned  the 
kernels  of  the  damsons,  stir  them  also  in,  about  five  minutea 
before  taking  it  off,  and  put  the  whole  into  moulds  or  cups. 
After  letting  it  stand  twenty-four  hours,  dip  in  brandy  pieces 
of  writing  paper  cut  of  a  proper  si2e  to  cover  the  tops  of  the 
damson  cheeses,  place  the  paper  over,  and  keep  them  in  a  dry 
place.  Damson  cheese  thus  made  will  continue -good  some 
years ;  and,  in  the  same  way,  cheese  may  also  be  prepared  with 
pihims,  bullaces,  &c.  If  made  up  in  very  small  moulds,  and 
not  intended  for  long  keeping,  there  will  be  no  necessity  for 
the  brandied  paper  to  cover  them.  A  superior  or  refined  sort 
of  damson  cheeses,  sometimes  called  fresh  damson  biscuits, 
so  that  these  damsons  have  the  names  both  of  cheese  and  bread, 
without  partaking  of  the  nature  of  either,  is  made  in  the  fol- 
lowing manner :— The  damsons,  being  baked  thoroughly,  are 
flnt  Ipt  be  skinned  and  stoned  ;  then  forced  through  a  sieve  by 
txiistik  of  a  spoon ;  and  two  pounds  of  sifted  loaf-sugar,  with 


PASTRY  AMD  CONFECTIONARY.  461 

Ae  addition  of  two  whisked  whites  of  eggs  for  every  pound  of 
tliis  damson  jam,  well  mixed  up  with  it.  Then,  folding  up 
-writing  paper  into  small  boxes,  called  by  the  confectioners 
coffins,  the  mixture  is  to  be  deposited  therein  as  smoothly  and 
finely  as  possible.  These  dieeses  or  biscuits  are  then  to  be 
placed  in  a  stove,  or  other  moderately  warm  situation,  for 

about  a  week,  or  till  sufficiently  dry ;  when,  the  paper  being 
torn  from  them,  they  are  to  be  kept  in  proper  boxes>  lined  with 

paper,  like  other  dried  sweetmeats  f<Nr  use. 

Apricots,  peaches,  and  even  barberries.  See.  are  thus  made 

into  what  are  called  biscuits  of  the  re^pecdve  fresh  fruits; 

only,  of  course,  adding  more  or  less  sugar,  with  other  slight 

but  obvious  deviations  in  preparing  the  different  sorts. 

Compote  of  Apples. 

Take  a  dozen  a£  golden  pippins,  pare  them  nicely,  and  take 
the  core  out  with  a  small  penknife ;  put  them  into  some  water, 
and  let  them  be  well  scalded ;  then  take  a  little  c^  the  water 
with  some  sugar,  and  a  few  apples  which  may  be  sliced  into  it, 
and  let  the  whole  boil  till  it  comes  to  a  syrup :  then  pour  it  over 
your  pippins,  and  garnish  them  with  dried  cherries  and  lemon- 
peel  cut  fine.  You  must  take  care  that  your  pippins  are  not 
split. 

Compote  of  Pears. 

Let  what  quantity  of  pears  you  wish  be  nicely  scalded 
till  sod,  then  take  them  out,  pare  them,  and  throw  them  into 
cold  water  to  harden ;  take  some  sugar,  cinnamon,  red  wine, 
and  cloves,  and  put  your  pears*  into  it ;  let  them  gently  boil 
till  a  syrap :  you  may  add  some  cochineal  to  give  them  a  fine 
colour. 

Raspberry  Paste. 

Mash  a  quart  of  raspberries,  strain  one  half,  and  put  the 
juice  to  the  other  half.  Boil  them  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  put  to 
them  a  pint  of  red  currant  juice,  and  let  them  boil  all  together  till 
your  raspberries  are  enough.  Then  put  a  pound  and  a  half  of 
double-refined  sugar  into  a  p4n/  with  as  much  water  as  will  dis- 
solve it,  and  boil  it  to  a  sugar  effm.  Put  in  your  raspberrtes 
and  juice,  give  them  a  scald,  anJl^ur  it  into  glasses  or  platA^' 


4M  DOMESTIC  GOOKBRT. 

Then  put  them  into  a  stove,  and  iamtlieiii  at  times  till  they 
thoroughlj  dry. 

Currtmt  PaUe. 

Carvant  paste  may  be  either  red  or  white,  acoordftig  to  the 
oalour  of  the  currants  you  use.  Strip  your  currants,  put  a 
Uttk  juice  to  them  to  keep  them  from  homing,  boil  them  well, 
flnd  mb  them  through  a  hair  sieve.  Then  boil  it  a  quarter  of 
an  hour,  and  to  a  pint  of  juice,  put  a  pound  and  a  half  of 
donble^refiniMl  ^gar,  pounded  and  sifted.  Shake  in  your 
Sttg^r,  and  when  it  is  meked,  pour  it  on  plates.  Dry  it  in  the 
same  manner  as  the  raspberry  paste,  and  turn  it  into  any  form 
you  like  best* 

Gooseberry  Paste, 
Takesoiiae  full  grown  red  gooseberries,  just  on  the  turn  for 
rip^hig,  cut  them  in  halves,  and  pick  out  all  the  seeds.  Have 
veady  a  pint  of  currant  juice,  and  boil  your  gooseberries  in  it 
till  they  are  tender.  Put  a  pound  and  a  half  of  double-refined 
sugar  into  your  pan,  with  as  much  water  as  will  dissolve  it, 
anjl  boil  it  to  sugar  again.  Then  put  all  together,  and  make  it 
scalding  hot,  but  do  not  let  it  boil.  Pour  it  into  your  plates  or 
glasses,  and  dry  it  as  before  directed. 

ORNAMENTS  IN  CONFECTIONARY. 

Ornamental  decorations  in  confectionary  have  a  very  pleas- 
ing effect  on  the  sight,  and  are  calculated  principally  to  embel- 
lish grand  entertainments.  As  the  variety  of  these  articles  is 
endless,  and  depends  entirely  on  the  ingenuity  of  the  artist, 
we  have  given  only  a  few  receipts,  by  way  of  illustration. 

An  elegant  Hen's  Nest. 

Pour  over  an  ounce  of  finely-shred  isinglass,  boiling  water 
barely  enough  to  cover  it ;  and,  in  ^ve  minutes,  pouring  off  the 
water,  boil  the  isinglass  in  a  gill  each  of  cream  and  new  milk, 
with  a  couple  of  spoonfuls  of  rose-water  and  as  much  sifted 
sugar.  Strain  it  through  a.  sieve,  and  keep  stirring  it  till  it 
stiffens.  When  it  gets  nearly  cold,  take  off  the  top,  and  leave 
^  sediment,  which  will  fill  seven  or  eight  egg  shells.     In  the 


PASTAT  AND  CONFECTIONARY.  4M 

mean  time,  having  \A<mn  out  the  onttents  of  so  many  eg^, 
by  the  sfnalkfit  holes  possible,  and  washed  the  shells  perfectly 
dean,  fill  them  up  with  this  blamange,  and  set  them  first  in 
salt  to  stiffen,  and  afterward  in  cold  water,  till  they  are  hard 
enough  to  peel.  Then  lay  them  in  a  basin,  with  a  qaantity  of 
lemon-peel  cut  so  as  to  resemble  straw  ;  pour  next  day  some 
dear  jelly  almost  cold  over  the  blamange  eggs ;  and,  on  the 
jdly's  becoming  quite  stiff,  tarn  the  whole  out  into  a  dish,  and 
serve  up  the  hen's  nest  complete. 

Rich  ChantUfy  Basket. 

In  a  dish  shaped  like  a  basket,  stick  around  small  ratafia 
cakes,  or  drops,  with  darified  syrup  boiled  to  a  carimel  height* 
Then  put  at  the  bottom  pieces  of  sponge  biscuit,  blanched 
almonds,  and  small  macaroons,  with  apricot  jam,  or  other 
sweetmeat;  and,  over  these,  a  good  covering  of  tart  cream  or 
thin  custard,  and  a  whipped  cream  froth  at  top,  with  a  light 
crinkling  of  rose  leaves  or  coloured  nonpareil  comfits.  By 
cutting  ratafia  cakes  into  squares,  and  dipping  them  in  carimd 
to  make  them  adhere,  sometimes  an  elevation  is  raised  several 
stories  high. 

A  Dish  of  Snow, 

Take  twdve  large  apples^  and  put  them  into  a  sauoe^pan 
with  cdd  water.  Set  them  over  a  slow  fire^  and  when  they 
are  soft,  pour  them  into  a  hair  sieve;  take  off  the  skins,  and 
pat  the  pulp  into  a  basin.  Then  beat  the  whites  of  twelve 
eggs  to  a  very  strong  froth ;  beat  and  sift  half  a  pound  of 
double-refined  sugar,  and  strew  it  into  the  eggs.  Work  .up  the 
pulp  of  your  apples  to  a  strong  froth,  then  beat  them  all  toge^ 
ther  till  they  are  like  a  stiff  snow.  Lay  it  upon  a  china  dish» 
and  heap  it  up  as  high  as  you  can.  Set  round  it  green. knota 
of  paste,  in  imitation  of  Chinese  ndls^  and  stick  a  sprig  of 
myrtle  in  the  middle  of  the  dish. 

Floating  Island. 

Take  a  soup-dish  of  sise  proportioned  to  what  you  intend  to 
make :  but  a  deep  glass  set  on  a  china  dish  wiU  answer  the  pur- 
pose better.  Take  a  quart  of  the  thickest  cream  you  can  get, 
and  make  it  pretty  sweet  with  fine  sugar.    Pour  in  a  gill  of 


464  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

sack^  grate  in  the  yellow  rind  of  a  lemon,  and  mill  the  cream 
till  it  18  of  a  thick  froth ;  then  carefully  pour  the  thin  from  the 
froth  into  a  dish.     Cut  a  French  roll,  or  as  many  as  yoa  want, 
as  thin  as  you  can,  and  put  a  layer  of  it  as  light  as  possible  on 
the  cream,  then  a  layer  o£  currant  jeUy,  then  a  very  thin  layer 
of  roll,  then  hartshorn  jelly,  then  French  roll,  and  over  that 
whip  your  froth  which  you  saved  off  the  cream,  well  nulled  up, 
and  lay  it  on  the  top  as  high  as  you  can  heap  it.     Ornament  the 
rim  of  your  dish  with  figures,  fruits,  or  sweetmeats,  ^s  you 
please.    This  looks  very  pretty  on  the  middle  of  a  table,  widi 
candles  round  it;  and  you  may  make  it  of  as  many  different 
colours  as  you  fancy,   according  to  what  jellies,  jams,  or 
sweetmeats  you  have. 

Chinete  Tempk  or  Obelisk*  ' 

Take  an  ounce  of  fine  sugar,  half  an  ounce  of  butter,  and 
four  ounces  of  fine  flour.    Boil  the  sugar  and  butter  in  a  little 
water,  and  when  it  is  cold,  beat  up  an  egg,  and  put  it  to  the 
water,  sugar,  and  butter.     Mix  it  with  the  flour,  and  make  it 
into  a  very  stiff  paste :  then  roll  it  as  thin  as  possible,  haves 
set  of  tins  in  the  form  of  a  temple,  and  put   the  paste  upon 
them.     Cut  it  in  what  form  you  please  upon  the  separate  parts 
of  your  tins,  keeping  them  separate  till  baked  ;  but  take  care 
to  have  the  paste  exactly  the  size  of  the  tins.     When  you.  have 
cut  all  these  parts,  bake  them  in  a  slow  oven,  and  when  cold, 
take  them  out  of  the  tins,  and  join  the  parts  with  strong  isinglass 
and  water  with  a  camel's  hair  brush.    Set  them  one  upon  the 
other,  as  the  forms  of  the  tin  moulds  will  direct  you.     If  you 
cut  it  nmiHy,  and  the  paste  is  rolled  very  thin,  it  will  be  s 
beautiful  comer  for  a  large  table.     If  you  have  obdisk  moulds, 
you  may  make  them  the  same  way  for  an  opposite  comer.    Be 
careful  to  make  the  pillars  stronger  than  the  top,  that  they 
BSay  not  be  crushed  by  their  weight. 


PLEASANT  AND  BBU8HINO  ]>I8HB8.  4tt 


PLEASANT  AND  RELISHING  DISHES. 

Omelettes,  and  various  ways  of  dressing  Eggs. 

A  HERE  is  no  dish  which  in  this  country  may  be  considered 
•s  coming  under  the  denomination  of  a  made  dish  of  the  second 
order,  which  is  so  generally  eaten,  if  good,  as  an  omelette ; 
and  no  one  is  so  often  badly  dressed :  it  is  a  very  faithfhl  assist- 
ant  in  the  construction  of  a  dinner. 

When  you  are  taken  by  surprise,  and  wish  to  make  an  ap« 
pearanee  beyond  what  is  provided  for  the  every  day  dinner,  a 
Uttle  portable  soup  melted  down,  and  some  zest,  and  a  few 
Tegetables,  will  make  a  good  broth— a  pot  of  stewed  veal 
wanned  up, — an  omelette,— and  some  apple  or  lemon  frit* 
ten,  can  all  be  got  ready  at  ten  minutes  notice,  and 
with  the  original  foundation  of  a  leg  of  mutton,  or  a  piece  of 
beef,  will  make  up  a  very  good  dinner  when  taken  by  surprise 
in  the  country. 

The  great  merit  of  an  omelette  is,  that  it  should  not  be 
greasy,  burnt,  nor  too  much  done :  if  too  much  of  the  whites 
of  the  ^;gs  are  left  in,  no  art  can  prevent  its  being  hard,  if  it 
is  done.  To  dress  the  omelette,  the  £re  should  not  be  too  hot, 
as  it  is  an  object  to  have  the  whole  substance  heated,  without 
much  browning  the  outside. 

One  of  the  great  errors  in  the  cooking  an  omelette  is  that  it 

is  too  thin,  consequently  instead  of  feeling  full  and  moist  in 

the  mouth,  the  substance  presented  ia  little  better  than  a  piece 

of  fried  leather :  to  get  the  omelette  thick  is  one  of  the  great 

objects.    With  respect  to  the  flavours  to  be  introduced,  these 

are  infinite:  that  which  is  most  common,  however,  is  the  beat, 

via.  finely  chopped  parsley,  and  chives  ar  qtubns,  or  eschalots 

— however,  <me  made.cf  a  mixture  of  taira^oQ,  durvil,  and 

parsley,  is  a  very  delicate  variety;  omitting  or  adding  the 

onion  or  ddytB,    Of  the  meat  flavours,  the  veal  kidney  is  the 

most  delicate,  and  is  the  most  admired  by  our  neighbours  the 

French:  this  should  be  cut  in  dice,  and  should  be  dressed 

(boiled)  before  it  is  added*    In  the  same  manner  bam  and  an- 

17  '  So 


466  DOMBSItIC  ClOOlLlSBT. 

chovies,  shred  small,  or  tongue,  will  make  a  very  delicately 
flavoured  dish. 

The  objection  to  an  omelette  is  that  it  is  too  rich,  whid& 
makes  it  advisable  to  eat  but  a  amall  quantity.  An  addition  of 
some  finely  mashed  potatoes,  about  two  table -spoonfuls  to  an 
omelette  of  siz  eggs,  will  much  lighten  it. 

Omelettes  are  often  served  with  a  rich  gravy;  but,  as  a 
gjenend  principle,  no  substance  which  has  been  fried  should  be 
served  in  gravy,  but  accompanied  by  it :  —or  what  ought  to  eat 
dry  and  crisp,  becomes  soddened  imd  flat. 
^  In  the  compoundijig  the  gravy  great  care  should  be  taken 
that  the  flavour  does  not  overcome  that  .of  the  omelette,  a  thing 
t^o  little  attended  to«  A  fine  gravy,  with  a  flavouring  of  sveet 
herbs  and  onions,  we  think  the  beat :  some  add  a  few  drops  a£ 
tiprfgon  vinegar ;  but  this  is  to  be  done  only  with  gueat  caOre. 
(gravies  to  omelettes  are  in  general^thickened ;  tl^ia  should  never 
be  done  with  flour :  potato  stanch,  or  arrow  root»  is  .the  beat. 

Omelettes  should  be  fried  in  a  small  frying-pan  made  for 
thut  purpose,  with  a  small  quantity  of  butter.  The  omelett^'e 
great  merit  is  to  be  thick,  so  a?  net  to  taste  of  the  outside ; 
therefore  use  only  half  the  number  of  whites  that  you  do  yolki 
qf  eggs.  Every  care  must  be  taken  in  frying,  even  at  the  risk 
of  not  having  it  quite  set  in.  the  middle.  An  omelette^  which 
has  so  much  vogue  abroad,  here  is  in  general  a  thin  douUed 
up  piece  of  leather,  and  harder  than  soft  leather  sometimes. 
The  fiict  is^  that  as  much  care  must  be  bestowed  on  the  frying, 
as  should  be  taken  in  poaching  an  e^; 

The  foUowizig  are  the  best  reoeipts  for  preparing  this  favour- 
ite dish. 

CiMimoft  Omeletie. 

Beat  up  a  batter  with  six  eggs,  a  table-spoonful'  of  flour, 
and  a  little  nilk ;  adding  a  good  deal  erf  chc^ptfd  parsley,  A 
finely  ahred  ahalot,  and  a  very  little  pofiiided  long  pepp^i 
grated  nutmeg,  and  salt.  Warm  some  fine  dripf^g  or  clarifi- 
ed butter  in  a  small  frying-pan:  pohr  into  it  the  batter;  aiid, 
when,  the  iiiider  side  is  of  a  fine  yellow  (Mrown,  mm  it,  and  do 
the  other  the  same.  It  should  be  eaten  quiie  hot.  Sbiiie  pUC 
in  a  little  ^naped  lean  of  ham,  or  gfated  idngiie;  bikt  iftis,  ai 
it  waaa  dish  contriTed purpbaely  for  frisi  diKfir,  tvdirtcdy  eon* 


PLEASANT  A;ND  RBLlS^lN^b. DISHES.  ^Of 

trary  to  the  original  intention.  If  the  omelette  should  be  diffi- 
cult to  torn^  it  may  be  taken  out  when  one  side  is  thoroughly 
cbme,  and  have  the  other  heated  browned  with  a  salamander  or 
hot  flat  iron,  and  be  served  up  with  sprigs  of  curled  parsley 
stuck  in  it. 

Friari  Omelette. 

Boil  b  detslen  fee  large  apples  iii  the  same  manner  as  for 
sauce,  sti)r  in  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter,  and  sugar  it  t6 
palate ;  and^  ^hen  it  is  cold,  add  fimr  eggs  well  beaten  up. 
Then  take  a  deep  baking  dish,  butter  the  bottom  and  sides 
well,  thickly  strew  crumbs  of  bread  so  as  to  stick  all  ovelr  the 
bottom^  put  in  the  apple  and  egg  mixture,  and  strew  crumbi 
plentifully  over  the  top.  When  baked,  turn  it  oiit  into  another 
dish,  Aud  grate  sugar  over  it. 

To  poach  Eggs. 

The  cook  who  wishes  to  display  her  skill  in  poaching,  must 
endeavour  to  procure  eggs  that  have  been  laid  a  couple  of  days  ; 
those  that  are  quite  new  laid  are  so  milky,  (hat  take  all  the 
care  you  can,  your  cooking  of  them  will  seldom  procure  you 
the  praise  of  being  a  prime  poacher ; — ^you  must  have  fresh 
eggs,  or  it  is  equally  impossible. 

The  beauty  of  a  poached  egg,  is  for  the  yolk  to  be  seen 
blushing  through  the  white, — which  should  only  be  just  suffi- 
ciently hardened,  to  form  a  transparent  veil  for  the  egg. 

Have  some  boiling  water,  in  a  tea-kettle, — pass  as  much  of 
it  through  a  clean  doth  as  will  half  fill  a  stew-pan,  break  the 
egg  into  a  cup,  and  when  the  water  boils,  remove  the  stew- 
pan  from  the  stove,  and  gently  slip  the  tgg  into  it ;  it  must 
stand  till  the  white  is  set ;  then  put  it  over  a  very  moderate 
fire,  and  as  soon  as  the  water  boils,  the  egg  is  ready ;  take  it 
up  with  a  slice,  and  neatly  round  off  the  ragged  edges  of  the 
white,— send  them  up  on  a  toast,  wiih  or  without  butter ;  or 
without  a  toast,  garnished  with  streaked  bacon,  nicely  firied, 
or  slices  of  broiled  beef  or  mutton. 

The  bread  should  be  a  little  larger  than  the  egg^  and  about 
a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick  :  only  just  give  it  a  yellow  colour : 
— if  you  toast  it  brown,  it  will  get  a  bitter  flavour: — or 
moisten  it  by  pouring  a  little  hot  water  on  it;  some  sprinkle  it 
with  a  few  drops  of  vinegar>— «r  of  essence  of  anchovy. 


'       J 


40^  ]>OMBBtlC  COOKBRT. 

To  hoil  JSggB  to  eat  in  the  Shell,  or  for  Salads. 

The  fresher  laid  the  better.  Pot  .them  into  boiling  water; 
if  yoa  like  the  white  just  set,  about  two  minutes  boiling  is 
enough ;  a  new  laid  egg  will  take  a  little  more.  If  you  wish 
the  yolk  to  be  aet»  it  will  take  three,— and  to  boil  it  hard  for  a 
salad,  ten  minutes. 

1  Hie.  lightest  mode  of  preparing  eggs  fbr  the  table«  is  to 
boil  them  only  as  long  as  is  necessary  to  coagulate  slightly  tihe 
greater  part  of  the  white,  withoiit.depriving  the  yolk  of  its 
fluidity. 

A  new  laid  egg  will  require  boiling  longer  than  a  stale  one 
by  half  a  minute. 

Tin  machines  for  boiling  eggB  on  the  breaklkst  table  are 
sold  by  the  ironmongers,  which  perform  the  process  very 
r^ularly : — in  four  minutes  the  white  is  just  set. 

We  again  remark  what  we  before  stated  in  our  obsffvations 
on  puddings,  that  eggs  may  be  preserved  for  twelve  months,  in 
a  sweet  and  palatable  state  for  eating  in  the  shell,  or  using  for 
salads,  by  boiling  them  for  one  minute ;  and  when  wanted  for 
use  let  them  be  boiled  in  the  usual  manner :  the  white  may  be 
a  little  tougher  than  a  new  laid  egg,  but  the  yolk  will  show  no 
difference. 

JEgg*  poached  with  Sauce  of  minced  Ham, 
Poach  the  eggs  as  before  directed,  and  take  two  or  three 
slices  of  boiled  ham,  mince  it  fine  with  a  gherkin,  a  morsel  of 
onion,  a  little  parsley,  pepper,  and  salt ;  stew  all  together  a 
quarter  of  an  hour;  serve  up  your  sauce  about  half  boiling; 
put  the  eggs  in  a  dish,  squeeze  over  the  juice  of  half  a  Seville 
orange,  or  lemon,  and  pour  the  sauce  over  them. 

Fried  Eggo  and  minced  Ham  or  Bacon. 
Choose  some  very  fine  baoon,  streaked  with  a  good  deal  of 
lean ,-  cut  this  into  very  thin  slices,  and  afterwards  into  small 
square  pieces ;  throw  them  into  a  stew-pan,  and  set  it  over  a 
gentle  fire,  that  they  may  lose  some  of  their  &t.  When  u 
much  as  will  freely  come  is  thus  melted  from  them,  lay  them 
on  a  warm  dish.  Put  into  a  stew-pan  a  ladlefui  of  melted 
bacon  or  lard ;  set  it  on  a  stove ;  put  in  about  a  dosen  of  die 
small  pieces  of  the  bacon,  then  stoop  the  stew*pa&  and  break 


TUBABAVr  AH D  RBLISRINO  DI8HB9.  4W 

in  an  egg.  Manage  this  Carefully,  and  the  egg  will  presently 
be  done:  it  will  be  rery  roimd,  and  the  little  dice  of  bacon 
will  stick  to  it  all  over,  so  that  it  will  make  a  very  pretty 
appearance.  Take  care  the  yolks  do  not  harden ;  when  the 
^gg  is  thus  done,  lay  it  carefully  in  a  warm  dish,  and  do  the 
ethers. 

Toast  and  Cheue,  or  Welsh  RaUrit. 

Cat  a  slice  of  bread  about  half  an'  inch  thick,  pare  off  the 
crusty  and  toast  it  very  slightly  on  both  sides,  so  as  just  to 
brown  it,  widiout  making  it  hard,  or  burning  it. 

Cut  a  slice  of  cheese,  (good  fiit  mellow  Cheshire  dieese»  er 
double  Gloster^  is  better  than  poor,  thin  single  Gloster,)  a 
quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  not  so  big  as  the  bread  by  half  an 
inch  on  each  side ;— pare  off  the  rind, — cut  out  all  the  specks 
and  rotten  parts,  and  lay  it  on  the  toasted  bread  in  a  cheese- 
toaster; — carefully  watch  it,  that  it  does  not  bum,  and  stir  it 
with  a  spoon,  to  prevent  a  pellicle  forming  on  the  surface. 
Have  ready  good  mustard,  pepper,  and  salt. 

If  you  observe  the  directions  here  given,  the  cheese  wiU 
eat  mellow,  and  will  be  uniformly  done,  and  the  bread  crisp 
and  soft,  and  will  well  deserve  its  ancient  appellation  of  a 
"  Rare  Bit." 

One  would  think  not£iing  can  be  easier,  than  to  prepare  a 
Wdsh  Rabbit  ;^^yet,  not  only  in  private  families,  but  at  ta« 
vems^  it  is  very  seldom  sent  to  table  in  perfecUon. 

Buttered  Toast  and  Cheese. 

Prepare  a  round  of  toast ;— butter  it:  grate  over  it  good 
Cheshire  cheese  about  half  the  thickness  of  the  toast^  and  give 
it  a  brown. 

Pousided  Cheese. 

Cut  a  pound  of  good  mellow  chedder,  Cheshire,  or  North 
Wiltshire  cheese  into  thin  bits ;  add  to  it  two,  and  if  the  cheese 
is  dry,  three  ounces  of  Aresh  butter;  pound  and  rub  them  well 
together  in  a  mortar  till  it  is  quite  smooth. 

When  cheese  is  dry,  and  for  those  whose  digestion  is  feeble, 
this  is  the  best  way  of  eating  it;  and  spread  on  bread,  it  makes 
an  excellent  luncheon  or  supper. 


\ 


490  BOM  WW?  ppoigs^y. 

To  mak^SenerteUhire  fuxxDentir^  botl  a  quart  of  fine  wbes^ 
and  add  by  degree!  two  qiiaitS'of  new  milk%  Pick  and  wash 
fear  ounces  of  currants^  atir  them  in  the  j^y>  and  boil  then 
together  till  all  is  done.  Beat  the  yalk's  of  three  ^^s,  and  li 
little  nutmeg,  with  two  or  three  spoonfuls  of  milk^  and  add  ta 
the  boiling.  Sweeten  the  whole,  and  serve  it  in  a  deep  disfa^ 
either  warm  or  cold. 

>  • 

A  pretty  Stgfper  Dish. 

Boil  a  tea-capful  of  rice,  .having  first  washed  it  in  milk  .till 
lender; '6tri|in  off  the  milk»  Uy  the  rice  in  little  heaps  on  a 
di^h,  strew  Oy^  the>n  some  finely  powdered  su^ur  and  cinna- 
mqp^  and  put  wantt  wine  and  a  little  butter  into  the  dish. 

Savoury  Rice. 

Wash  and  pick  aone  rice,  stew  ii  very  gently  in  a  small 
quantity  of  veal  «r  rich  m«tton  broth,  with  an  onion,  a  blade 
of  mace,  pepper,  and  itAL  When  swelled,  but  not  boiled  to 
mash,  dry  it  on  the  shallot  end  of  a  sieve  before  the  fire,  and 
either  serve  it  dry,  or  .put  it  in  the  middle  of  a  dish,  and  pour 
the  gravy  round,  having  healed  it* 

Buttered  Rice. 

Wash  and  pick  some  rice,  drain,  and  put  it  with  some  new 
milk,  enough  just  to  swell  it,  over  the  fire;  when  tender,  pour 
off  the  milk,  and  add  a  bit  of  butter,  a  little  sugar  and  pound- 
ed cinnamon.     Shake  it,  that  it  do  not  bum,  and  serve. 

Macaroni. 

The  usual  mode  of  dressing  it  in  this  country  is  by  adding 
a  white  sauce,  and  Parmesan  or  Cheshire  cheese,  and  burning 
it.  But  this  makes  a  dish  which  ia  proverbially  unwholesome : 
but  its  bad  qualities  arise  from  the  oiled  and  burnt  cheese,  and 
the  half-dressed  flour  and  butter  put  in  the  white  sauce. 

Maoaroni  plain  boiled^  and  some  rich  stock  or  portable 
soup  added  to  it  quite  hot,  will  be  found  a  delidons  dish,  bb^ 
Yttj  wholesome.  Or  boil  macaroni  as  directed  in  the  rrceipt 
for  the  pudding»  and  serve  it  quite  hot,  inja  d^p  tpnre^; 
and  let  each  guest  add  grated  Panneian  and  oolil  biitt^r,  or 


PLEASANT  AND  ItBLISHiNO  DISHES.  471 

qSlM  butter  serred  hot,  and  it  is  excellent ;  this  is  the  most 
eonmon  hsiian  mode  of  dressing  it  Macaroni,  with  cream, 
sugar,  and  cinnamon,  or  a  little  varicelli  added  to  the  cream, 
makes  a  Very  nice  sweet  dish. 

EnglUk  wmf  0/  dremng  Maeainmi. 

Pat  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  macaroni  into  a  stew-pan  with 
a  pint  of  milk,  er  broth,  or  water;  let  it  boil  gently  till  it  is 
tender,  and  then  put  in  an  ounce  of  grated  cheese,  a  bit  of 
butter  about  as  big  as  a  wafaiut,  more  or  less,  as  yonr  cheese  is 
fat  or  poor,  and  a  tea*spoonful  of  salt ;  mix  it  well  together, 
and  put  it  on  a  dish — and  itrew  over  it  two  ounces  of  grated 
Parmesan  or  Cheshire  cheese~-and  give  it  a  light  brown  in  a 
Dutch  oven.— Or  put  all  the  cheese  into  the  macaroni,  and  put 
bread  crumbs  over  the  top. 

Macaroni  is  very  good  put  into  a  thick  sauce,  with  some 
sbreds  of  dressed  ham^  or  in  a  curry  sauce.  Riband  macaroni 
is  best  for  these  dishes,  and  should  not  be  done  so  much. 

Stewed  Macanmi. 

This  favourite  dish  is  thus  prepared— Having  a  sufficient 
quantity  of  brown  stock,  or  good  beef  gravy,  with  a  relish  of 
ham,  boil  in  it  half  a  peund  of  macaroni ;  and,  when  about 
three  parts  done,  strain  it  off,  and  add  a  gill  of  new  milk  with 
another  of  cream,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  each  of  grated  Par- 
mesan cheese  and  fresh  butter,  and  Cayenne  pepper  and  salt  to 
palate.  Stir  the  whole  together  over .  a  good  fire  for  a  fbw 
minutes,  slightly  cover  it  with  grated  Parmesan,  smooth  the 
surface  of  the  macaroni,  brown  the  top  with  a  red  hot  iron, 
and  send  it  immediately  to  table. 

Anchovy  Toast. 

Bone  and  skin  six  or  eight  anchovies;  pound  them  to 
a  mass  with  an  ounce  of  fine  butter  till  the  colour  is  equal,  and 
then  spread  it  on  toast  or  rusks. 

SandwicluB^ 

Properly  prepared,  are  an  elegant  and  convenient  luncheon 
or  supper, — ^but  have  got  out  of  fashion  from  the  bad  man- 
ner in  which  they  are  commonly  made:  to  cut  the  bread  neat- 


^ 


47S  bOMKSTIG  COOKBRY. 

Ij  with  a  sharp  knife^  seems  to  be  considered  the  only  essentia]^ 
and  the  lining  is  composed  of  any  offid  odds  and  ends  diat 
cannot  be  sent  to  table  in  any  otl^  fonn. 

Whatever  is  used  must  be  carefully  trimmed  from  every  bit 
of  skin,  gristle,  &c. — ^and  nothing  introduced  but  what  you 
are  absolutely  certain  will  be  acceptable  to  the  mouth. 

The  materials  for  making  sandwiches  are  various.  The  fol- 
lowing are  those  chiefly  used:  Cold  meat  or  poultry,  potted 
lobster  or  shrimp,  grated  tongue,  anchovy,  German  sautsge, 
cold  pork  sausage,  and  grated  ham  or  beef. 

Barley  Water. 

Take  a  couple  of  ounces  of  peari  barley,  wash  it  dean  with 
cold  water,  put  it  into  half  a  pint  of  boiling  water,  and  let  it 
boil  for  five  minutes ;  pour  off  this  water,  and  add  to  it  two 
quarts  of  boiling  water ;  boil  it  to  two  pints,  and  strain  it. 
This  is  simple  barley  water.  To  a  quart  of  the  above  is  fre- 
quently added-^Two  ounoea  of  figs  sliced,  the  same  c^  raisins 
stoned,  half  an  ounce  of  liquorice  sliced  and  bruised,  and  a 
pint  of  water.     Boil  till  it  is  reduced  to  a  quart,  and  strain. 

These  drinks  are  intended  to  assuage  thirst  in  ardent 
fevers,  and  inflammatory  disorders,  for  whidi  plenty  of  mild 
diluting  liquor  is  one  of  the  prindpal  remedies; —and  if  not 
suggested  by  the  medical  attendant,  is  frequently  demanded  by 
honest  instinct,  in  terms  too  plain  to  be  mbunderstood.  Th^ 
atonuich  sympathizes  with  every  fibre  of  the  human  frame,  and 
no  part  of  it  can  be  distressed,  without  in  some  degree  ofiendiog 
the  stomach :  —therefore  it  is  of  the  utmost  importance  to  soothe 
this  grand  organ,  by  rendering  every  thing  we  offer  to  it  ss 
elegant  and  agreeable  as  the  nature  of  the  case  will  admit  cS' 
The  barley  drink  prepared  according  to  the  second  receipt^ 
will  t>e  received  widi  pleasure  by  the  most  delicate  palate. 

Wh^y. 

Make  a  pint  of  milk  boil,— put  to  it  a  glass  or  two  of  white 
wine— put  it  on  the  fire  till  it  jiist  boils  again— then  set  it  on 
one  side  till  the  curd  has  settled-— pour  off  the  dear  whey^  9^ 
sweeten  it  as  you  like.  ^ 

Cider  is  often  substituted  for  wine,  or  half  the  quantity  o^ 
vinegar  that  we  have  ordered  wine. 


PLBASAHT  AK0  ttBljlflHINO  l>ISttE8.  47^^ 

When  there  is  no  fire  in  a  sick  roem,  this  may  be  put  hot 
iota  a  bottk,  and  p«t  between  the  bed  and  mattress— it  will 
keep  warm  several  hours. 

GrueL 

A#k  those,  who  ane  to  eat  it,  if  thejr  like  it  tfiick  or  thin;, 
if  the  Utt^*  mix  well  together  hy  degrees,  in  a  pint  basin, 
one  table-spoonful  of  oatmeal,  with  three  of  cold  water  ;-~if 
the  former,  use  tWo  spoonfuls. 

Have  ready  in  a  stew-pan  a  pint  of  boiling  water  or  milk, 
— pour  this  by  degrees  to  the  oatmeal  you  have  mixed, — return 
it  inw  the  4tew-paa,— set  it  on  the  lire,— and  let  k  boil  for  five 
aoiaates, — stiffing  it  all  the  time  to  prevent  th«  oatmeal  firom 
bumiBg  at  the  hMom  of  the  stew-paii>-^fld&iai  and  strain  it 
through  a  hair  sieve. 

Plain  gruel,  such  as  is  directed  above,  is  one  of  the  best 
breakfasts  and  suppers  that  we  can  recommend  to  the  rational 
epicure— is  the  most  oemfoting  sdother  of  ah  irritable  stomach 
that  we  know — and  pattioularly  acceptable  to  it  after  a  bard 
day's  work  of  intemperate  feasting'^when  the  additi<)n  of  half 
an  ounce  of  butter,  and  a  tea-spoonful  of  Epsom  salt,  will  give 
it  an  aperient  quality,  which  will  assist  the  prinaipal  viscera  to 
get  rid  of  their  burden^ 

Dr.  Franklin's  favourite  breakfast  was  a  good  basin  of  warm 
gme\,  in  which  there  was  a  small  slice  of  butter  wiUi  toasted 
bread  and  nutmeg.  The  expense  of  this  he  reckoned  at  thret 
half-pence. 

■ 

SiffpetSy  Uihen  the  Stomach  will  not  receive  Meat^ 

On  an  extremely  hot  plate  put  two  or  three  sippets  of  bread, 
and  pour  over  them  some  gravy  from  beef,  mutton,  or  veal,  if 
there  is  no  butter  in  the  dish.     Sprinkle  a  little  salt  over. 

Panada,  made  in  five  minutes. 

Set  a  little  water  on  the  fire  with  a  glass  of  white  wine,  somd 
sugar,  and  a  sonspe  cf  nutmeg  and  lemon-peel ;  meanwbOe 
grate  some  crumbs,  of  br^ad.  t^he  moment  the  mixture  boils 
up,  keeping  it  still  on  the  fire,  put  the  crumbs  in,  and  let  it 
bcHl  as  fast  as  it  can.  When  of  a  proper  thickness  just  to 
drink,  take  it  off. 

17  S  p 


476  DOMESTIC  COOKBRY. 

fill  it  up  with  cold  spring  w«ter,  mid  pour  it  through  a  fine 
tieve. 

This  is  a  pleasant  and  ezcelleat  beverage^  grateful  to  the 
stomach,  and  deserves  a  constant  place  by  the  bpdside. 

To  muU  Wime. 

Boil  some  spice  in  a  little  water  tiU  the  flavour  is  gained, 
then  add  an  e^ual  quantity  of  port,  some  sugar  and  nutmcig  ; 
boil  together,  and  serve  with  toast. 

Or  it  may  be  made  of  good  British  wine*. 

Flip. 

Keep,  grated  ginger  and  nutmeg  with  a  little  fine  dried 
lemon  peel  rubbed  together  in  a  mortar. 

To  make  a  quart  of  flip:— Put  the  ale  on  the  firq  to  warm, 
and  beat  up  three  or  four  eggs  with  four  ounces  of  moist 
Bugar,  a  tea-spoonfiil  of  grated  nutmeg  or  ginger,  and  a  quar« 
tern  of  good  old  rum  or  brandy.  When  the  a)e  is  near  to  boil, 
put  it  into  one  pitcher,  and  the  rum  and  egg%  (&o*  iotoanvther; 
turn  it  from  one  pitcher  to  another  till  it  is  as  .smooth  aa 
cveam. 

Lemon  Woter,  a  delightful  Think. 

Put  two  slices  of  lemon  thinly  pared  into  a  tea-pot,  a  little 
bit  of  the  peel^  and  a  bit  of  sugar*  or  a  huge  apoonflil  of  csu 
pillaire  ;  pour  in  a  pint  of  boiling  water,  and  atop  it  dose  two 
hours. 

Orangeade,  or  Ltmonai^. 

Squeeze  th^ juice:,  pour  boiling  water  on  a  lidie  of  the 
peel,  and  coyer  close.  Boil  water  and  sugar  to  a  thin  symp, 
,  and  skim  it  When  all  are  cold,  mix  the  juice,  the  infissioQ, 
and  the  syrup,  with  as  much  more  water  as  will  make  a  rich 
sherbet ;  strain  through  .a  jeUyibag.  Or  squeeae  the  juice, 
and  strain  it,  and  add  water  and  capillaire* 

Otgeat. 

This,  agreeable  and  delicate  beverage  is,  in  strictness;,  the 

.purest  barley  water,  but  generally  nothing  more  than  common 

,   apring  water,  mixed  with  more  or  less  orgeat  i^rup,  a^^wiihiy 


PLBASAIgT  AND  ftEU»HlNO  PISHES.  477 

to  palate.  Indaedlj  Orgeat  fyrop  is  not  nmch  Ufied  in  England ; 
hat,  instead  jof  it,  en  extemporaneous  emuUion  of  almonds, 
with  a  little  orange-flower  water,  and  a  quantily  of  powdcu^ 
loaf-SMgar  in  cold  ^ring  water.  Sometimes,  tpo,  4aailk  is/mgyp^ 
dboed,  with  cinnamon ;  and,  not  unfrequcntly,  even  J  ^jj^  ^ 
but  then,  certainly,  it  is  no  longer  tbe  cooling  «9d|,e  suffered 
OTgeat,  however  it  maj  be  piefemd  for  paiticu^j^^  j^  ^  y^y 

efficiently  aug« 
King  WaUam'$  Aie  Pwtfke,  and  adopting. 
Possets,  tibongh  long  highly  esteemejf  water  on  the  ooffee 
need ;  thai  which  is  preeerined  is  saifiem  till  next  day,  to  be 
fiivourite  of  the  sovereign  whose  n^d  cream,  too,  idstead  of 
made:— Take  a  quart  of  cream,  iifference  in  drinking  coffee, 
rie ;  then  well  beat  up  feegether  ^*  pure,  seems  of  less  import* 
whites  of  fmr,  and  put  theoiihe  superiority  of  fine  Lisbon 
some  nutmeg  in  it,  sweeten  ^tol  the  use  of  pounded  sugar* 
fim,  and  keep  stirring  it  all 
before  it  boils,  take  it  off, 
it  up  quite  hot.  Method  of  making  Coffee. 

r.  Eton,  m  his  Survey  of  the  Turkish 

o  be  good,  must  either  be  ground  to 

Thisi8<5ertainly  aiP<>^d«^  or  pounded,  as  is  done  by  the 

William  might  here^rtar  with  a  heavy  pestle.    They  put  the 

macy.    This  posset.^**^  l^  <>ver  a  very  slow  fire,  shaking  it 

end  beat  quite  sm^™*  ^^  b^ins  to  send  forth  a  fragrant 

patting  in  a  little'*  another  coffee-pot,  they  pour  on  it  boiling 

fWxn  oiling.    T*^*^' »"  ''^c^  the  grounds  of  the  last  made 

it  well  with  do'^^^>  and  set  to  become  clear ;  holding  it  a 

at  the  same  th  ^^  ^®'  till  there  is  a  white  scum  like  froth 

let  them  ako'^"*  *>y  ^7  means  suffering  it  to  boil,  but  only 

mix  them  tV  **  "  ^^^"^  poured,  two  or  three  times,  from  one 

Pope^s  posa^**'^'  ^^  t^*"  ^^^  becomes  dear ;  they  often, 

tik  it  quite  thick.     Some,  to  make  it  clear  sooner, 

«i  spoonful  of  cold  water,  or  lay  a  cloih  dipped  in 

BoilsorJ^^^P^^^^'^P^^- 
take  it  off  ^  _-  .    i-  ^  ^    .    « 

pour  it  out,\    ^'*^^'^"*^  ^-^  ^^^^^  **•  France. 
and  serve  it^^^^''^  ^  ^^^^  excellent  coffee,  in  France,  roast 

it  is  used:  they  even  say,  that  it  should  be 
t  infused,,  and  drunk,    in   the  space  of  two 


^•7*  DOMESTIC  COOKBItr. 

Variaut  Ways  of  making  Tol. 
^        I.  The  Japanese  reduce  their  tea  to  a  fine  powder  by 
unding  it,— they  put  certain  portions  of  this  into  a  tea-cup, 
itomaCboiling  -w^ater  upon  it,  and  stir  it  up,  and  drink  it  as  soon 

nol  eno^S^' 

♦be  tea  into  a  kettle  with  cold  water, — cover  it  close. 
Boil  80ine>e,  ^^^^  -make  it  all  but  boil :  when  you  see  a  sort 
{hen  add  an  equ*>n  the  surface,  take  it  from  the  fire;  when  the 
boil  together,  and  a-dy. 

Or  it  may  be  maOA-e  yoa  wish  to  have  tea  ready  for  drinking 

^old  water  as  you  wish  to  make  tea— 

y  clear  liquor,  and  when  you  wish  to 

Kcaep.  grated  ginger  anc^ 

lemon  peel  rubbed  together  in  ^uu^e  by  making  a  tincture  of  tea, 

To  make  a  quart  of  flip:— Pn  it,  and  let  it  stand  twenty 

and    beat  up  three  or  four  eggb>  more  than  is  necessary  to  fill 

Bogar,  a  tea-spoonAil  of  grated  nut^up  up  with  hot  water  from 

tern  of  good  old  rum  or  brandy,     ^be  always  hot  and  equally 

put  it  into  one  juteher,  and  the  rum  an^i  will  be  found  enough  for 

torn  it  fi'om  one  pitcher  to  another  ^  to  tlie  present  mode  of 

cream*  Iten  used. 

\.  D.  1664,  told  Mr. 
Lemon  Water,  a  deUghtJul  ^  pjnt  of  water,  and 

Put  two  slioes  of  lemon  thinly  pared  in^gg,  and  beat  them 
bit  of  the  peel^  and  a  bit  of  sugar,  or  a  lai^or  the  tea,  and  stir 
piUaire  ;  pour  in  a  pint  of  beiliog  water,  an(hat  we  let  the  hot 
hours.  whiph  makes  it 

the  water  must 
Orangeadct  or  Lemonadih      the  '  Mimtre 

Squeeze  th^jaiee;.  pour  boiling  water  on  iritual  part  of 
peel,  an4  cover  close.    Boil  water  and  sugar  to  ^t  be  about  a 
^  and  skim  it     When  all  are  cold,  mix  die  juice, . 

and  the  syrup,  with  as  much  more  water  as  will  Hrp  a  more 
sherbet ;  s^am  through  a  jeUy«ilM|g.      Or  squeei 
and  strain  it,  and  add  water  and  capUlair^. 

Orgeat.  ^ffee  in  Eng- 

This,  agreeable  and  delicate  beverage  is,  in  pint,  with  an 

{purest  \>9jAey  water,  but  generally  nothing  morfboiling  water, 

.   spring  water,  mixed  with  more  or  lacs  orgeat  i^tt,  and  return^ 


PLEASAHT  AND  RBLI8HIMG  DISHES.  479 

mg,  m  little  of  the  coffee,  two  or  three  times ;  then  putting  in 
two  or  three  small  shreds  of  isinglass,  gentlj  dissolved  in  a  cup« 
fal  of  boiling  water,  boiling  the  whole  five  minutes  longer,  and 
lastly,  keeping  the  coffee-pot  dose  by  the  fire  ten  minutes  more 
to  ctear.  Some  also  put  in,  with  the  coffee,  a  small  bit  of 
▼jmilla,  which  gives  a  fine  flavour ;  but  it  must  not  be  suffered 
to  predominate.  Thus  made,  though  it  be  too  weak,  it  is  very 
pleasant.  The  strength,  perhaps,  might  be  sufficiently  aug< 
mented  by  pounding  the  coffee,  like  the  Turks,  and  adopting, 
with  them,  the  method  of  pouring  boiling  water  on  the  coffee 
grounds  left,  and  letting  it  stand  on  them  till  next  day,  to  be 
used  instead  of  common  water.  Good  cream,  too,  instead  of 
very  middling  milk,  makes  a  vast  difference  in  drinking  coffee, 
J^owever  prepared.  The  sugar,  if  pure,  seems  of  less  import* 
aooe,  though  some  insist  on  the  superiority  of  fine  Lisbon 
sugar,  while  others  highly  extol  the  use  oi  pounded  sugar- 
candy. 

Best  JitrkUh  Method  of  making  Coffee. 

It  is  observed  by  Blr.  Eton,  in  his  Survey  of  the  Turiitsh 
Empire,  that  coffee,  to  be  good,  must  either  be  ground  to 
an  almost  impalpable  powder,  or  pounded,  as  is  done  by  the 
Turks,  in  an  iron  mortar  with  a  heavy  pestle.  They  put  the 
coffee  quite  dry  into  the  pot,  over  a  very  slow  fire,  shaking  it 
often,  till  it  gets  warm,  and  b^ins  to  send  forth  a  fragrant 
smell.  Then,  from  another  coffee-pot,  they  pour  on  it  boiling 
water^  or  rather,  water  in  which  the  grounds  of  the  last  made 
ooflSse  bad  been  boiled,  and  set  to  become  clear ;  holding  it  a 
little  longer  over  the  fire,  till  there  is  a  white  scum  like  froth 
on  its  top^  without  by  any  means  suffering  it  to  boil,  but  only 
gently  to  rise.  It  is  then  poured,  two  or  three  times,  firom  one 
pot  into  the  other,  and  thus  soon  becomes  dear ;  they  of^en, 
however,  drink  it  quite  thick.  Some,  to  make  it  clear  sooner, 
either  put  in  a  spoonful  of  cold  water,  or  lay  a  cloih  dipped  in 
cold  water  on  the  top  of  the  pot. 

Management  of  Coffee  in  France. 

Those  who  wish  to  have  excellent  coffee,  in  France,  roast 
it  every  day  as  it  is  used:  they  even  say,  that  it  should  be 
roasted,  ground,  infused,,  and  drunk,    in  the  space  of  two 


I 


I, 


40^  DOMBStlC  COOKBKY* 

koars;  and  asfeit  thait,  if  lh«s«  ptoenaeB  be  longer  icr  void 
ceediof  «aoh  otliar^  the  coffee  loeei  miioli  of  that  volatile  spirit 
whfich  conetitutes  all  its  agreeable  flavour.  The  q^afttity  cooi^ 
tamfy  oted  is  an  ounee  to  five  ce]>8  of  spring  water,  to  pro* 
d«ce  four  of  good  and  dear  coffee.  I  a  the  mean  thne,  it  ie  usual 
la  throw  their  colfee  grMAds  into  a  vessel,  boil  thein  half  an 
hoar,  and  leave  tfaeoi  to  settle:  this  infision  soweil  serves  fetf 
a.  thsrd  part  of  the  coflbe  in  powder,  that  in  a^coflee  jpot  of  four-* 
teen  cups  of  .pure  spring  water,  which  shoukl  have  three 
eunoos  to  be  good,  two  ounces  with  this  infbsion  will  be  of 
e^wl  airength  and  goodneis.  The  opeMaon  of  boiling  the 
gvotmdfris  perfonned>  •  in  large  eolee  houses,  five  dr  sfai  times 
Qver^  4My»  Tfiis  is  the  common  way  of  makilig  cellee  throiqh^ 
out  Frenee,  •  where  it  is  generally  drunk  with  sugar  and  creani ; 
while^  at  different  coffee  housesi  and  in  perticnlar  ftnulies^ 
vansHe,  isuiftaBi,  and  other^ngredisnirts,  are  a£io  intrsduced  as 
they  have  lately  been  in  England.  The  French,  beside  briaak* 
fasting  often  on  coffee,  usually  drink  two  cups  about  half  an 
hour  after  dnnaer ;  to  hasten  digestion,-  or  abate  the  fumes  of 
wine,  and  liqteivswhen  they  banns  been  tskckr  to  exceed' the 
bounds  of  neeesihy^ 

Those  who  use  much  of  this  arttde  will  find  the  fi)Howfai|f 
mode  of  j^rrepsring  it  both  useftd  and  economksd  :-^ 

Cut  a  cake  of  chocolate  in  vefy  small  Mts-;  put  a  pint  of 
%ater  into  ^e  pdt,  and  when  it  boils/  put  in  the  ^bove;  mfll  H 
off  the  fire  until  quite  mel'ted,  ^Aen  on  a  gentle  fire  till  It  ttoil  i 
pour  it  hito  a  basiiV,  and  it  will  keep  in  a  cool' place  e^t  or  tenf 
days,  or  more.  When  wanted,  put  a  spoonful-  or  t'vt^  hito  teOk^ 
boii  it  with  suga^,  and  ttriH  it  wdl. 

This,  if  not  madethide,  is  a  very  good  breakfrA- or  supper. 

CMnmm  Caeo,  or  Cacao  S^eB» 

This  artide,  which  is  merely  the  parctied  shell  of  the  cacao^ 
coarsely  ground  or  pounded,  partakes  slightly  of  the  flavour 
and  salubrity  of  the  nut ;  which  it  imparts  by  long  decoction 
in  water,  aT)d  thus  makes  a  very  cheap,  agreeable,  and  whole-, 
some  breakfast,  when  drank  willi  moist  sugar  and  new  milk. 


PICKLES.  481 


PICKLES. 

Preliminary  Ohiervaiiaiu. 

J;  ICKLES  well  chewed,  and  eaten  in  Hiodcrationy  are  not 
iMid,  as  vehicles  for  taking  a  certain  portion  of  vinegar,  which 
is  useful  on  many  occasions,  as  resisting  putrefaction,  assisting 
digestion,  and  removing  obstructions,  and  thus  counteracting 
gross  foods.  But  an  immoderate  use  of  vinegar  is  very  inju- 
rious to  all  constitutions,  and  there  are  some  that  cannot  bear 
it  at  all. 

The  simplest  kinds  of  pickles  are  the  safest  When  spices 
are  too  profusely  used  in  them,  or  too  many  kinds  mixed  toge- 
ther, they  tend  to  counteract  the  benefits  of  the  vinegar. 

The  pickle  made  to  preserve  cucumbers,  &c  is  generally 
8o  strongly  impregnated  with  garlic,  mustard,  and  spice.  Sec, 
that  the  original  flavour  of  the  vegetables  is  quite  overpowered ; 
and  if  the  eater  shuts  his  eyes,  his  lingual  nerves  will  be  pus- 
sled  to  inform  him  whether  he  is  munching  an  onion  or  a 
cucumber,  &c.  and  nothing  can  be  more  absurd  than  to  pickle 
plums,  peaches,  apricots,  currants,  grapes,  &c 

The  strongest  vinegar  must  be  used  for  pickling : — it  must 
not  be  boiled,  or  the  strength  of  the  vin^^  and  spices  will 
be  evaporated.  By  parboiling  the  pickles  in  brine,  they  will 
be  ready  in  half  the  time  they  are  when  done  in  the  usual  man- 
ner,—of  soaking  them  in  cold  salt  and  water  for  syx.  or  eight 
days.  When  taken  out  of  the  hot  brine,  let  them  get  cold,  and 
quite  dry,  before  you  put  them  into  the  pickle.  To  assist  the 
preservation  of  pickles,  a  portion  of  salt  is  added ;  and  for  the 
same  purpose,  and  to  give  flavour,  long  pepper,  black  pep- 
per, white  pepper,  allspice,  ginger,  cloves,  mace,  garlic, 
mustard,  horseradish,   shalots,  and  capsicum. 

The  following  is  the  best  method  of  preparing  the  pickle, 
and  requires  less  care  than  any  other  way.  -—Bruise  in  a  mortar 
three  or  four  ounces  of  the  above  ingredients ;  put  them  into 
a  stone  jar  with  a  quart  of  the  strongest  vinegar;  stop  the  jar 
closely  with  a  bung,  cover  that  with  a  bladder  soaked  with 

1»    .  3q 


49}  DOBiBSTIC  COOKERY. 

pickle,  set  it  on  a  trivet  by  the  side  of  the  fire  for  three  day§, 
well  shaking  it  ap  at  least  three  times  in  the  day.  By  pounding 
the  spice,  half  the  quantity  is  enough ;  and  the  jar  being  well 
closed,  and  the  infusion  being  made  with  a  mild  beat,  there 
is  no  loss  by  evaporation. 

To  enable  the  articles  pickled  to  more  easily  and  speedily 
imbibe  the  flavour  of  the  pickle  ■  they  are  immersed  in,  pre- 
viously to  p(xuring  it  on  them  run  a  larding-fMn  through  tbeot 
in  several  places. 

Pickles  should  be  kept  in  a  dry  place,  in  unglazed  earthen- 
ware, or  glass  jars.  The  latter  are  preferable^,  as  you  can, 
without  opening  them,  observe  whether  they  want  filling  up : 
they  must  be  car^^fully  stopped  with  well  fitting  bun^s,  and  tied 
over  as  closely  as  possible  with  a  bladder  wetted  with  the  pickie» 

Jars  should  not  be  more  than  three  parts  filled  with  the 
articles  pickled^  which  should  be  covered  with  liquor  at  least 
two  inches  above  their  surface ;  for  the  liquor  wastes,  and  all 
of  the  articles  pickled,  that  are  not  covered,  are  soott  spoiled. 
A  wooden  spoon,  full  of  holes,  should  be  tied  round  each  jar,  to 
take  them  out  with. 

If  you  wish  to  have  gherkins,  &c.  very  green,  this  may 
be  easily  accomplished  by  keeping  them  in  vinegar,  suffici^tly 
hot,  till  they  become  so.  Tf  you  wish  cauliflowers,  onions,  &c.. 
to  be  white,  use  distilled  vinegar  for  them. 

To  entirely  prevent  the  mischief  arising  from  the  actjeo  of 
the  acid  upon  the  metallic  utensils  usually  employed  to  prepare 
pickles,  the  whole  of  the  process  is  directed  to  be  perfbnned 
in  unglazed  stone  jars. 

I  Walnuts, 

Scald  slightly,  to  facilitate  rubbing  off  the  fir$t  skin,  a 
hundred  of  fine  large  Frencl/ walnuts^  about  the  beginning  of 
July,  before  they  have  a  hard  shell,  which  is  easily  asoditained 
by  the  common  method  of  trying  them  with  a  pin.  Put  tbfsn 
in  a  strong  cold  brine,  shift  them  into,  new  the  third  and  sixth 
days,  and  take  them  out  and  dry  them  on  the  ninth  or  tenth. 
Then  take  an  ounce  each  of  long  pepper,  black  pepper,  ginger* 
and  allspice  ;  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  cloves  ;  a  few  blades  of 
mace;  and  a  table-spoonful  of  must^S  seed  :  and  having 
bruised  the  whole  together,  put  into  a  glass: 4iir  unglaaed  stone 


^-^ 


PICKLlSS.  '  483 

jar,  a  layer  of  Walntita,  strew  them  well  over  with  the  mixture, 
and  proceed  iii  the  same  manner  with  the  rest,  titt  all  are 
oorered.  Then^  boiling  three  quarts  of  white  wine  vinegar^ 
with  some  sliced  horseradish  and  ginger,  pour  it  hot  over  thft 
walnuts,  and  cover  them  up  close.  Repeat  the  boiling  of  the 
vinegar^  and  pouring  it  hot  over,  three  or  four  days>  always 
keeping  the  pickle  'closely  covered ;  and  adding,  at  the  last 
boiling,  a  few  cloves  of  garlic,  or  some  sfaalots,  let  them  stand 
at  least  four  or  five  months,  when  they  will  be  excellent. '  This 
liquor,  too,  proves  an  admirable  walnut  catsup  for  fisb>  &c. 

Gherkins  or  young  CuC9fmbers^ 

The  best  method  of  pickling  the  smallest  young  cucumbers, 
commonly  called  gherkin,'  differs  little  fitom  that  of  preparing 
cbdlin  mangoes,  &c.  They  should,  after  lying  for  two  or  three 
days  in  a  strong  brine,  be  wiped  dry,  and  put  into  stone  jars) 
Then,  boiling,  for  ten  minn^,  a  sufficient  quantity  of  goad 
oommoD  vinegar  to  eover  them^  with  plenty  of  ginger,  blaek 
peppei*,  and  allspice;  a  few  clove$;  a  little  mace;  soote  slteed 
hecseradish^  peeled  onions,  and  shabts,  and  a  email  quantity 
of  garlte ;  pour  die  liqupr  hot  over  the  gherkins,  cover  each 
jar  with  vin^  or  cabbage  leavee  and  a  plate;  und  set  them  near 
the  fire^  or  in  some  other  warm  situation ;  next  day  drain  the 
vin^^  from  ihtm,  boil  it,  and  again  pour  it  hot  over  them 
and  fresh  vine  leavea;  and,  if  not  then  suiBciently  green,  re- 
peat the  same  process  a  third  time.  When  quite  cc4d,  tie  them 
down  dose^  covered  with  bladder  and  leather. 

Cucnmbirt  and  OnUnu  in  SHces*  ^ 

Slice  large  peeled-  enions,  and  uupered  ducumbers,  and 
well  sprinkle  them  over  with  sah^  on  tlie  following  day,  draiA 
off  the  brine  gradually  for  some  hours,  and  put  them  in  a  stone 
JBV.  In^the  mean- time  boil  sliced-  horse-radish,  whitest  gingo*, 
whole  white  >pe]^>er,  and  allspioe,  with  a  litde  mace,  in  good 
common  vinegar ;  pour  it  hot  over  them,  and  keep  them  cover- 
ed in  a  warm^  situation.  The  slices  of  cucumbers  should  be 
tolerably  thick,  those  of  the  onions  somewhat  thinner.  The 
vinegar  mutt  be  rebelled  daBy,  two  or  three  times,  and  again 
poured  hot  over;  after  whicb^  the  jar  is  to  be  eUmed  fn  the 
-iMual  way. 


484  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

■  French  BeanSy  Nasturtiums,  See » 

These,  and  moet  other  small  vegetable  substancefl,  particu* 
larly  such  as  are  green,  may  be  pickled  in  the  same  -^wj  as 
gherkins ;  care  being  taken  to  use  only  fresh  articles  gathered 
in  dry  weather,  at  the  proper  season  and  stage  of  their  growth. 
Vine  leaves,  where  convenient,  may  be  infused  in  the  pickle; 
to  improve  their  green  colour.  If,  however,  the  vegetables  are 
naturally  of  a  good  green,  and  the  vinegar  is  well  boiled  in  a 
copper  or  brass  vessel  thoroughly  cleaned,  it  will  seldom  be 
necessary ;  and,  in  this,  there  is  no  danger :  but  vinegar  must 
never  be  suffered  to  remain,  after  boiling,  in  any  copper  or  brass 
vessel  whatever. 

Bttt  Roots. 

Boil  gently  till  they  are  full  three  parts  done  (this  will  take 
from  an  hour  and  a  half  to  two  and  a  half,)  then  take  them 
out,  and  when  a  little  cooled,  peel  them,  and  cut  them  in 
slices  about  half  an  inch  thick.  Have  ready  a  pickle  for  it^ 
made  by  adding  to  each  quart  of  vinegar,  aa  ounce  of  black 
pepper,  half  an  ounce  of  gjinger  pounded,  same  of  salt,  and 
of  horseradish  cut  in  thin  slices,  and  you  may  warm  it  if  yon 
like,  with  a  few  capsicums,  or  a  little  cayenne  ;-*^ttt  these  iDr 
gredients  into  a  jar,  stop  it  close,  and  let  them  steep  three 
days  on  a  trivet  by  the  side  of  the  fire— *then,  when  cold,  pour 
the  dear  liquor  on  the  beet  root,  which  have  previously  ar- 
ranged in  a  jar. 

Red  Cabbage. 

Slice  it  into  a  colander,  and  sprinkle  each  layer  with  salt; 
let  it  drain  two  days,  then  put  it  into  a  jar,  and  pour  boiling 
vinegar  enough  to  cover,  and  put  a  few  slices  af  red  beet-root. 
Observe  to  choose  the  purple  red  cabbage.  Those  who  like  the 
flavour  of  spice  will  boil  it  with  the  vinegar.  Cauliflower  col 
in  branches,  and  thrown  in  after  being  salted^  will  look  of  a 
beautiftd  red. 


Smatt 

The  sinSll  round  onions,  when  delicately  dear  and  wbiio, 
msike  A  pleasing  and  excellent  pickle,  commonly  called  button-   % 
cmions.    The  IbUowing  is  the  best  methed  of  pickling  them :— 


f 


PICKLES.  485 


Peel  the  finest  and  whitest  small  round-headed  onione,  gene- 
rally most  plentiful  in  the  month  c^  September^  and  boil  thett, 
with  plenty  of  salt^  in  a  quantity  of  milk  and  water  ;  as  soon 
as  they  boll  up,  and  look  a  little  clear  on  the  outside,  take  them 
instantly  up  with  a  slice,  lay  them  when  cold  and  wiped  dry 
into  a  jar,  or  rather  wide-mouthed  glass  bottles,  or  small 
glasses,  as  they  lose  their  white  colour  on  the  slightest  exposure 
to  the  air  afler  being  pickled.  In  the  mean  time,  having  bail- 
ed some  of  the  best  white  wine  or  doable-distilled  vinegar  in  a 
atone  jar,  with  a  little  sliced  horseradish,  whitest  ginger,  and 
white  pepper,  by  putting  it  in  a  vessel  of  boiling  water,  pour 
the  liquid,  when  a  little  cooled,  over  the  onions;  and  cover 
them,  as  soon  as  quite  cold,  with  bladder  and  leather.  If 
double-distilled  vinegar  be  used,  it  will  greatly  contribute  to 
preserve. them  white;  but  it  must  not,  on  any  account,  be 
boiled  in  metal. 

Cauliflowers  or  BrocoU. 

Choqse  those  that  are  hard,  yet  sufficiently  ripe— cut  away 
the  leaves  and  stalks. 

Set  on  a  stew-pan  half  full  of  water^  salted  in  proportion 
of  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  salt  to  a  quart  of  water— throw  in 
the  cauliflower,  let  it  heat  gradually ;  when  it  boils  take  it  up 
with  a  spoon  full  of  holes,  and  spread  them  on  a  cloth  to  dry 
before  the  fire,  for  twenty-four  hours  at  least.  When  quite  dry, 
put  them,  piece  by  piece,  into  jars  or  glass  tie-overs,  and 
cover  them  with  the  pickle  we  have  directed  for  beet  root 
Nasturtiums  are  excellent  prepared  as  above. 

Lemons. 

This  receipt  for  pickling  lemons  we  can  confidently  recom- 
mend. It  is  tiie  communication  of  a  lady,  and  has  never  before 
been  published. 

Grate  off  the  outside  rind  of  the  lemons ;  rub  them  well 
with  salt;  afterwards  put  them  in  salt  and  water  made  very 
strong  for  nine  or  ten  days,  taking  them  out  and  rubbing  them 
separately  with  salt  every  day  during  that  time ;  then  take  them 
out,  and  dry  them  in  a  coarse  doth.  Make  a  pickle  of  vinegar, 
^ginger,  mace,  pepper,  &c.  boiled  together,  and  put  in  the 
lemons ;  let  them  just  simmer  over  the  fire,  and  add  a  amall 


fuantily  of  tunneric.     Put  them  in  jars^  and  when  odol  tie 
.  liieDi  down* 

Mushrooms. 

Buttons  must  be  robbed  with  a  bit  of  flannel  and  sak ;  and 
fitnn  the  larger,  take  out  the  red  inside ;  ibr  when  they  are 
black  they  will  not  do,  being  too  old.  Throw  a  little  salt  oyer» 
and  put  them  into  a  stew-pan  with  some  mace  and  pepper ;  tfa 
the  liquor  eomes  out,  shake  diem  wdl,  and  keep  them  over  a 
gentle  fire  till  all  of  it  be  dried  into  them  again ;  then  put  as 
nuch  tinegar  into  the  pan  as  wfll  cover,  them,  give  it  one 
worm,,  and  turn  all  into  a  glass  or  stone  jar.  They  will  keep 
twoyeais,  and  are  delicious. 

Swedish  Method  of  pickling^  Potato  Apples, 

The  apples  produced  in  such  abundance  on  potato  stalks 
are  generally  suffered,  in  England,  to  rot  on  the  ground.  In 
Sweden,  these  apples  are  collected  while  in  a  green  and  hard 
State,  well  rinsed  in  cold  water,  soak^  for  fofty-eight  hours 
in  a  strong  filtrated  brine,  drained  half  a  dtey  in  a  colander^ 
and  then  boiled  in  vinegar  with  spices  till  they  acquire  some 
degree  of  transparen<^,  or  clearness,  without  beooming  too 
toft.  Thus  prepared,  they  are  said  to  atford  a  more  palatable 
pickle  than  either*  olives  or  cucumbers.  Those,  however,  who 
relish  the  peculiar  flavour  of  the  olive,  will  probably  protest 
against  any  such  preference  in  the  taste,  and  may  even  contend 
for  the  at  least  equal  salubrity  of  their  favourite  fruit.  They 
are,  indeed,  wed  worth  pickfing,  if  they  even  equal  the  cueum- 
b«>r ;  which,  eaten  in  moderation,  is  less  insalubrioos  than 
generally  imagined. 

Sorhstries. 

This  fruit,  on  account  of  its  beautiful  appearance  for  gar- 
nish, is  preserved,  pickled,  ^c.  in  a  variety  of  ways.  It  may 
be,  and  often  is,  so  powerful  is  its  natund  add,  pickled  in 
bunches,  with  strong  salt  and  water  only ;  whidi,  howev^, 
should  be  timely  changed,  whenever  it  appears  scummed  over. 
This  both  tastes  and  looks  well,  and  will  keep  a  considerable 
time.  Where  persons  are  particularly  curious,  it  is  pickled  in% 
the  following  manner,  whidi  may  be  oonsidersd  as  the  best: 


PICKLES.  489 

-^Boil  iOme  of  the  wortfl  and  single  berrieiy  in  sidt  aiKl  water ; 
then  straining  off  the  juiee^  which  must  be  of  a  good  colour, 
9^  to  every  gill  a  quart  of  vinegar,  with  an  ounce  of  salt,  a 
qnartier  of  a  pound  of  loaf-aogar,  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  po  w* 
ckred  and  sifted  ginger,  and  a  little  sUced  horseradish.  In  the. 
mean  time,  put  bunches  of  the  finest  barberries  into  the  jar,  and 
poor  the  strained  pickle  boiling  hoi  over  them.  When  it  ia 
quite  cold,  add  sufficient  bruised  cochineal  to  heighten  the 
colour,  and  tie  the  whole  up  close. 

Samphire, 

Samphire;*  sometimes  called  rock  or  sea  samphire,  is  a  perennial 
plant  which  grows  on  the  British  ooast,  among  gravel  and  rocks, 
and  flowers  in  the  month  of  August.  For  culinary  pur- 
poses, it  is  much  esteemed  as  a  wholesome  as  well  as  i^eeable 
pickle ;  for  which  purpose,  it  is  generally  considered  to  be  at 
the  height  of  its  goodness  in  the  month  of  May«  The  follow* 
ing  method  of  pickling  samphire  in  the  best  manner  is  chiefly 
adopted:— Soak  some  of  the  freshest  and  clearest  green  sam- 
phive,  in  salt  and  water,  for  two  days:  then  take  it  out;  and 
bml  it,  well  covered  up,  in  plenty  of  vin^par,  over  a  alow  fire, 
till  it  be  just  green  and  crisp ;  not  soft  or  tender,  by  which  it 
would  be  spoiled.  Then  p«t  it  up  in  a  jar,  and  keep  it  tied 
daf¥m,  well  oovered  with  bladder  and  leather. 

Some  prefer  this,  which  as  the  old  Dover  ivceipt  :-*^To  a  gal- 
Ion  of  vinegar  and  two  quarts  of  water,  take  two  large  handfuls' 
ef  salt;  and,  having  pickedand  washed  the  samphire  intended  for 
pickling,  put  it  into  this  liquid,  pa^te  up  die  vessel  which  contains 
the  whole,  and  set  it  over  a  moderate  fire,  withoiit  boiling, 'for 
half  an  hour  only*  Let  it  not  be  opened,  till  quite  oc^d ;  and  then 
put  it  into  a  jar  with  the  same  liquor,  and  fresh  vinegar,  water, 
and  salt,  to  be  kept  for  use.  The  moat  common  mode  is,  to 
put  it  in  a  very  strong  brine  of  salt  and  water,  or  sea* water 
•nly,  which  will  keep  it  good  all  the  year ;  and  throwing  it  into 
vinegar,  as  wanted,  a  little  before  sending  it  to  table.  Though 
samphire  be  generally  thought  best  for  pickling  in  May,  it  is  also 
reckoned  very  good  about  Michaelmas. 

EUerBuds. 

^     Having  procured  elder  buds,  gathered  when  they  are  about 
the  size  of  hop  buds,  put  them  into  strong  salt  and  water  for 


489  DOMSftTIC  COOKBRT. 

nine  days,  and  stir  them  two  or  three  times  a  day*  Tlien  pat 
them  into  a  pan^  cover  them  with  vine-leatres^  and  pour  on 
them  the  water  they  came  oat  of.  Set  them  over  a  slow  lire 
till  they  are  quite  green,  and  then  make  a  pickle  for  them 
of  vinegar,  a  little  maoe^  a  few  shalots,  and  some  ginger 
sliced.  Boil  them  two  or  three  minutes,  and  pour  it  upon  the 
buds.     Tie  them  down,  and  keep  them  in  a  dry  place  for  use. 

Elder  Shoots. 

Put  the  elder  shoots,  which  must  be  gathered  when  they 
are  of  the  thickness  of  a  pipe  shank,  into  salt  and  water  all 
night.  Then  put  them  into  stone  jars  in  layers,  and  between 
every  layer  strew  a  little  mustard-seed,  scraped  horseradish, 
a  few  shalots,  a  little  white  beet-root,  and  a  cauliflower  pulled 
into  small  pieces.  Then  pour  boiling  vinegar  upon  them,  and 
scald  them  three  times.  Keep  in  a  dry  place,  with  a  leather 
tied  over  them. 

ArHchokes. 

Take  young  artl^Vkes  as  soon  as  they  aie  formed,  and 
boil  them  for  two  bflthree  minutes  in  strong  salt  and  water. 
Lay  them  upon  a  hair  sieve  to  drain,  and  when  oold»  pat  them 
into  narrow-topped  jars :  take  as  much  white-wine  vinegar  as 
will  cover  the  artidiokes.  Boil  them  with  a  blade  or  two  of 
mace,  a  few  slices  of  ginger,  and  a  nutmeg  cut  thin.  Poar  it 
on  them  while  it  is  hot,  and  tie  them  do^^  ^loae. 

Artichoke  Bottoms. 

Boil  the  artidiokes  till  the  leaves  can  be  pulled  off;  take 
off  the  chokes,  and  cut  them  from  the  stalk ;  bat  take  great 
care  not  to  let  the  knife  touch  the  top.  Throw  them  into  salt 
and  water  for  an  hour,  take  them  out,  and  lay  them  on  a  doth 
to  drain.  As  soon  as  they  are  dry  put  them  into  large  wide- 
mouthed  glasses,  with  a  little  mace  and  sliced  nutmeg  betwes^^ 
and  (ill  them  either  with  distilled  vinegar,  or  sagar- vinegar  snd 
spring- water.  Cover  them  with  mutton  fiit  fried,  and  tie  them 
down  with  a  leather  and  a  bladder. 

Indian  Bamboo  imitated. 
About  the  beginning  or  middle  of  May,  take  the  middle  of 
the  stalks  of  the  yoang  shoots  of  eUer,  for  the  taps  of  the 

/ 


i 


PICKLES.  480 

shoots  sre  not  worth  doing.  Peel  off  the  outside  rind,  and  lay 
them  all  night  in  a  strong  brine  of  salt  and  beer.  Dry  them 
singly  in  a  doth,  and  in  the  meantime  make  a  pickle  of  an 
equal  quantity  of  gooseberry  vin^ar  and  wine  vinegar.  To 
every  quart  of  pickle  put  an  ounce  of  long  pq^per,  the  same 
quantity  of  sliced  ginger,  a  few  corns  of  Jamaica  pepper,  and 
a  little  mace.*  Boil  it»  and  pour  it  hot  upon  the  shoots.  Stop 
the  jar  close,  and  set  it  by  the  fire-side  for  twenty^bur  hoursi^ 
taking  care  to  stir  it  frequently. 

Radish  Pod$. 

Put  the  radish  pods,  which  mutt  be  gathered  when  they  are 
quite  young,  into  salt  and  water  all  night ;  boil  the  salt  and 
water  they  were  laid  in,  poor  it  upon  the  pods,  and  cover 
the  jar  dose  to  keep  in  the  steam.  When  it  is  nearly  cold, 
make  it  boiling  hot,  and  pour  it  on  again,  and  keep  doing  so 
till  the  pods  are  quite  green.  Then  pat  them  into  a  sieve  to 
drain,  and  mi^e  a  pickle  for  them  of  white- wine  vinegar, 
with  a  little  mace,  ginger,  long  poypsr,  and  horseriidish. 
Pour  it  boUing  hot  upon  the  pods,  and  when  it  is  almost 
odd,  make  the  vinegar  twice  as  hot  as  before,  and  poor  it 
npon  them.  Tie  them  down  with  a  bladder,  and  put  them  by 
fi>r  use. 

M^on  Mangoes, 

There  is  a  particular  sort  for  this  purpose,  which  the  gar- 
deners know.  Cut  a  square  small  piece  out  of  one  side,  and 
through  that  take  out  the  seeds,  and  mix  with  them  mustard^ 
seeds  and  shred  garlic;  stuff  the  melon  as  full  as  the  space  will 
allow,  and  replace  the  square  piece.  Bind  it  up  with  a  small 
new  packthread.  Boil  a  good  quantity  of  vinegar,  to  allow  for 
wasting,  with  peppers,  salt,  ginger,  and  pour  boiling  hot  over 
the  mangoes  four  successive  days;  the  last,  put  flour  of  mus- 
tard, and  scraped  horseradish,  into  the  vinegar  just  as  it  boils 
up.  Stop  dose.  Observe  that  there  is  plenty  of  vinegar.  All 
pickles  are  spoiled  if  not  well  covered.  Mangoes  should  be 
done  soon  after  they  are  gathered.  Large  cucumbers,  called 
green  turley,  prepared  as  mangoes,  are  excellent,  and  come 
sooner  into  eating. 

18  5  R 

« 

S 


4M  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

Mafk^  the  greater  number  d  times  Iwiliiig  Yfiiegwr  i»  pour- 
ed over  either  sort,  th»  somier  it  wiU  be  ready. 

■ 

B$8i  India  Pkkk. 

Tike  half  n  paaiid  of  ginger,  And  soften  It  by  soaldiig  k 
all  uight  in  water;  then  sorape  it,  cut  it  in  thin  alicee/  and  keep 
it  ready  in  a  pan  with  dry  salt*     At  the  same  time,  take  a 
qaarter  of  a  pound  of  garlie,  and  a  handfal  of  sbalots,  peel 
and  cut  them  in  pieces,  with  some  ^iced  beraeradisk,  and  let 
them  also  remain  in  salt  for  three  days.     Then  wash  and  again 
salt,  leaving  them  three  days  k>iiger  in  salt ;  after  which,  once 
uMive  wash  tbetn,  and  dry  thiMn  in  the  sun.     Having,  in  the 
i^eap  wbile«.  pieked  to  pieces  socae  fine  eauliflowen^  taken 
cfrliKy.as  lar.  as  the  wUte  ia  goad  wifluHit:  outting  tbremh 
the.  ifydim,  aftd  divided  i«to  quartera  or  nith^  halj&quattets^  tkt 
heait  of  a  white  cabbage,  with  any  other  propear  articles  intend* 
ed.  to  be  first  pickled^  let  them  Kkeirise  lie  three  daya,  cevtred 
with  plenty  oC  salt  in  a  pan„  aqueene  oot  aU  the  water,  and  dry 
them  IreU,  in  the  sup»    Put  all  these  IngcediaBte  into  a  stoot 
j^  with  two  ouneaii  of  mustard^aeed,   half  an  biince  of 
bruieed  tormerie^  aod  a  little  eayenne  and  whole  long  pepp^* 
l^he^i  boil  two  quarts  <^  good  vioefar,  and  pD«r  it  hot  intetbe 
jar^  covering  it  up  till  next  day ;  when  the  vinegar  is  to  be 
poured  off,  boiled,  and  returned  again  hot  on  the  pickles.   This 
may  be  repeated  with  advantage,  even  ^  third  time,  on  the  day 
fqUowing.    The  jar  being  illed,  is  to'  be  kept  closely  covered 
up  with  bladder  and  white  leather,  and  kept  in  a  dry  pl>c^ 
To  the  pickle  thus  made,  may  be  added,  at  pleaaure,  and  as 
they  come  in  season,  wbcR  duly  piepared  by  aalting  and  diy- 
iog,  pickling  melons  peeled  thin  and  cut  intp  the  form  of  In- 
dian mangoes,  radishes  aeraped  white  but  having  Aeir  green 
tops  left,  cueuoobers,  whole  French  beana*  ploms^  peacbe% 
apples,  and  anions  whole  or  diced  ;  in  shi^  almost  any  tbii^ 
except  walnuta,  red  cabbage,  dec.  which  would  too  greatly  in** 
teifere  with  tbe  taste  and  colour  of  this  most  serviceable  Ismily 
pickled    It  will  be  proper  to  kecy  the  jar  constantly  SUki  ^ 
fresh  pickles  or  vinegsr. 


BBBADy  TBA-CAKBS,  4rc  ^l 


BREAD,  TEA-CAKES,  6tt. 

Obtervatians  relative  to  Flour  and  Bread. 

AS  the  principal  food  of  great  numben,  and  a  part  of  the 
aultaumoa  of  all  peopfe,  ^orttiats  of  corn,  they  oti^ht  to  be 
•enaible  that  their  health  must  inevitably  be  injtired  by  bad 
€oni»  and  even  by  good  corn  ythkn  badly  prepared. 

The  best  flottr  is  often  made  into  bad  bread  by  not  letting 
it  riae  aufRciently,  by  not  kneading  it  well,  by  not  baking  it 
enottgfa*  and  by  keeping  it  too  long.  Misting  other  aubstancea 
with  the  flour  alao  injnrea  the  quality  of  bread  in  a  very  Migti 
degree* 

These  faults  h*ire  all  an  exeeediti^y  injuridns  effkt  6n  the 
people  who  eat  audi  bread,  but  the  injury  is  still  more  aeriOua 
to  children  and  weakly  persona.  .| 

The  mere  exposure  to  the  air  will  ev^jforite  and  deaden  aU 
flour,  though  the  grain  haa  never  passed  through  any  fermen- 
tation or  digestion ;  as  in  the  instance  of  the  flodr  of  wheat, 
which  is  the  strongest  and  of  the  best  subatance  of  any  othef. 
For  this  realon,  floiir  which  has  been  ground  fire  or  six  weeka, 
or  longer,  though  it  be  kept  cloae  in  aacka  or  barrels,  will  not 
nudce  ao  aneet  nor  ao  moist  pleasant  bread  aa  that  which  Is  new* 
ly  grottod. 

All  sorts  of  grain  kept  entire  wiR  remain  aornid  and  good 
Ibr  a  kmg  time  i  but  flour  will  in  a  comparatively  short  time 
corrupt  and  generate  worms.  This  all  people  shoald  consider, 
but  moria  especially  the  preparers  of  food. 

The  health  of  mankind  la  particulady  placed  in  the  handa 
ai  millora,  deolera  in  com  and  meal,  and  bakera,  from  gtahi 
bebig  the  most  eaaential  artide  of  attbaisteDoe.  Those  who 
acquit  themaelvea  honestly  in  these  various  vocations  deaerte 
their  profits,  and  tho  good^will  ti  their  fdlow  men ;  but  those 
who « betray  dio  confidence  r^t^osed  in  them,  especially  those 
who  withliold  grinn  Wh^  it  la  wanted,  or  who  corrupt  it  in  any 
way  when  it  la  brought  into  nae,  are  pre'«mineiitly  the  aeeret 
and  worst  enemies  of  mankind. 


4M  DOMESTIC  COOKKRT. 

Bread  made  with  leaven  is  preferable  for  general  use  to  that 
made  with  yeast,  for  the  sour  quality  of  leaven  is  more  agree- 
able to  the  ferment  of  the  stomach  than  yeast,  is  easier  of 
digestion,  and  more  cleansing ;  it  opens  the  vessels,  and  gives 
a  healthy  appetite ;  and  a  little  use  will  make  it  famUiar  and 
pleasant  to  the  eater.  But  this  bread  seldom  agrees  with  weak 
stomachs,  especially  such  as  are  liable  to  acidity  and  heart- 
bum* 

The  putting  much  salt  into  bread  is  injurious,  from  the 
change  it  occasions  in  bread  of  all  kinds*  For,  finding  no 
matter  liable  to  putrefaction  to  work  on,  it  seizes  the  good 
qualities^  and  by  its  active  property  alters  and  corrupts  them. 
Therefore,  when  bread  is  intended  to  be  kept  a  considerable 
time,  as  biscuits  which  ore  carried  to  sea,  and  the  like,  no  aak 
is  put  into  it*  Porridges,  as  they  are  eaten  immediatelj,  will 
admit  of  salt,  which  is  very  useful  in  various  instances. 

It  must  be  understood  that  br^d  is  not  so  substantial  and 
nourishing  as  flour,  when  prepared  in  porridges,  &c  with 
either  milk  or  water.  But  good  bread  is  an  excellent  food, 
proper  to  be  eaten  with  flesh  of  all  kinds,  butter,  cheese, 
herbs,  and  many  other  things,  insomuch  that  it  has,  for  its 
frequent  and  excellent  use,    been  deservedly  accounted  and 

called  THE  STAFF  OF  LIFE. 

Bread  should  not  be  baked  in  too  close  an  oven,  that  (he  air 
may  have  more  or  less  egress  and  regress.  But  the  best  way  is 
to  make  it  into  thin  cakes  and  bake  them  on  a  stone,  whidi 
many  in  the  north  of  England  use  for  that  purpose,  making  a 
wood  fire  under  it  This  sort  of  bread  is  sweeter,  of  a  more 
innocent  taste,  and  far  easier  of  digestion  than  bread  baked  the 
common  way  in  ovens. 

Oaten  cakes  are  often  preferable  to  those  made  of  wheaften 
flour,  as  they  tend  to  open  the  body,  and  are  rather  wanper  to 
cold  and  weak  stomachs.  Barley  is  not  so  nourishing,  and  re- 
quires more  preparation  to  render  it  digestible  than  the  other 
kinds  of  grain* 

Cakes,  biscuits,  bunns,  muffins^  crumpets,  and  small  bread, 
made  with  eggs,  butter,  or  sugar,  sometimes  do  not  i^grce  with 
delicate  persons.  Biscuits  made  without  either  leaven,  ycast» 
butter,  or  sugar,  are  more  difiicult  of  digestion  than  bread  when 
it  is  fermented. 


' 


BRBAD^  TBA-CAKES,  &C.  493 


Where  bread  b  fixed  to  a  standard  weight  and  price^  fitrada- 
leot  bakers  add  a  mixtare  of  alum  and  pearl-ash  to  it,  for  the  pur- 
poses of  hastening  its  risings  of  making  it  retain  its  moisture, 
and  hence  its  weight.  When  there  is  reason  to  suspect  that 
bread  is  adulterated  with  alum,  it  may  be  detected  thus:  cut 
about  a  pound  of  bread  into  an  earthen  vessel«  pour  upon  it  a 
quart  of  boiling  water,  and  let  it  stand,  till  odd.  Strain  the 
liquor  off  gently  through  a  piece  of  fine  linen,  boil  it  down  to 
about  a  wine-glass  full,  set  it  by  to  opol,  and  if  there  be  a 
mixture  of  alum,  the  crystals  of  it  will  appear. 

Four  of  the  following  aphorisms  ought  to  be  the  general 
rules  to  all  the  makers  of  bread ;  and  the  fifth,  the  practice  of 
aU  the  consumers  of  bread. 

1.  Bread  should  be  made  of  sound  clean  com,  newly 
ground,  and  not  contaminated  by  any  extraneous  mixtures. 

2.  To  be  leavened,  which  makes  it  light  of  digestion ;  and 
moderately  seasoned  with  salt. 

3.  Suffered  to  rise  for  several  hours,  and  well  wrought  and 
laboured  with  the  hands. 

4.  Well  baked,  net  too  much,  which  consumes  the  strength 
and  goodness  of  the  com ;  nor  too  little,  which  makes  it  heavy, 
clammy,  and  unwholesome. 

5.  Not  in  general  to  be  eaten  hot,  as  it  is  then  more  viscid, 
and  harder  of  digestion  than  when  cold.  Bread  is  in  its  best 
state  the  first  and  second  day  after  it  is  baked. 

BREAD. 

Unadulterated  EngUsh  Bread* 

Sift  a  peck  of  the  finest  wheat  flour  into  a  heap ;  and, 
making  a  small  cavity  in  the  centre,  strain  into  it  about  a  pint 
of  good  yeast,  mixed  with  the  same  quantity  of  moderatdy 
warm  water,  and  make  it  up  of  a  light  paste,  with  part  of  the 
flour.  Cover  up  this  dough,  set  it  before  the  fire  for  an  hour, 
to  prove  or  rise,  and  then  mix  the  whole  with  at  least  two 
quarts  of  water,  in  which  a  moderate  quantity  of  salt  has  been 
dissolved ;  knead  it  till  all  the  dough  is  of  a  good  stiffness,  and 
set  it  to  prove  for  another  hour.  It  must  now  agmn  be  well 
kneaded,  and  once  more  proved  for  an  hour,  when  it  will  be 
ready  to  form  into  loaves,  which  may  be  either  made  in  re|nilar 


494  '  DOMESTIC  COOKfiAT.  - 

moulds,  or  formed  by  h^trhw^g  twp  [f^oes  together ^  eitlier  of 
round  or  oblong  forms.  A  quArtern  loaf  wUl  require  about 
an  hour  and  a  half's  baking,  in  a  brisk  oven.  This  conunon 
process  is  less  understood  than  may  by  many  be  imagined  ;  and 
the  truth  is,  that  some  experience  ia  necesaary  to  make^  and 
properly  bake,  a  good  loaf  of  bread.  Af^  aU,  it  ia .  not  so 
white  as  bread  made  by  bakers,  who  often,  in  clefianoe  of  the 
law,  make  use  of  alum  for  the  purpose  of  whitening  their  bread; 
and,  it  is  to  be  feared,  too  often  use  this  and  other  dru^  for  a 
inuch  worse  purpose, — that  of  disguising  ingredienta  of  a  baser 
quality, .  if  not  even  of  a  pernicious  nature.  If  the  above  pro- 
cess be  duly  regarded,  any  person  may  soon  make  bread  as 
well  as  the  most  experienced  baker.  * 

Excellent  Family  Bread. 

Pat  a  quartern  of  flour  into  a  large  basin  with  tw^  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  salt, — make  a  hole  in  the  niiddle,i— thea  put  ia^ 
basin' four  table«spoonfuls  of  good  yeast,  stir  in  a  pint  of  milk 
lukewarm,  put  it  ii^be  hole  of  the  flour,  stir  it  just  to  make 
it  of  a  thin  batter,  men  strew  a  little  flour  over  the  tap,-:- then  , 
set  is  on  one  side  of  Ifke  ^,  and  cover  it  over ;  let  it  atand  till 
next  morning, — then  make  it  into  a  dough  ;--add  ha}f  a  pint 
more  of  warn  imtk,  knpad.i^.&r  ten  minutes,  and  then  set  it 
in  a  warm  plaee  l^y  tbs  fiira  'Ibi  one  h^iur  and  a  ha]f,«— then 
knead  it  again, .  and  it  ia  ready  either  iet  loaves  or  bricks  :— 
bake  them  from  one  hour  and  a  half  to  two  hours,  according 
to  the  size. 

¥hu  Frenek  Bread. 

In  France,  bread  is  made  of  many  diffisreat  descviptions, 
wUle  in*  England  are  scarcely  any  other  sorts  th«i  the  ctmiiion 
witeaten  or  white,  and  the  ordthaFy  household  or  brown  bread. 
French  bread  is,  indeed,  'to  be  had  in  London^  and  osber 
pepakNis  places,  wherd  there  are  eminent  bakers ;  but  its  ose 
ie  chiefly  eonflned  to  the  breakfast  table,  where  it  is  far  frsm 
general.  The  foHowing  is  one  of  the  best  meliiods  of  making 
it;— -Take  half  a  peck  of  the  finest  flour;  and,  having  well 
eifted  it  into  the  kneading-trough  from  a  centrical 'QiviSy,  nsto 
which  strain  about  half  a  pint  each*  of  warm  milk  and  the 
choieest  yeast,  mrxing  some  of  the  sun^onding'  flour  soi  av  tk> 


BRBAD,  TEA-0AKB8,  Ac.  495 

form  a  light  sponge.  Then,  dating  oovered  it  well  up  with  alitien 
and  a  flannel  ckth^  place  it  before  the  fire  to  rise  for  about  three 
quarters  of  an  hour ;  and,  having  warmed  a  phit  and  a  half  of 
mSlk  with  half  a  [NOt  of  water,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  fl^esh 
batter,  a  spobnM  of  powd^ed  loaf-sugar,  and  a  little  salt, 
knead  it  to  a  proper  oonsiMence,  and  place  it  again  over  the 
fire  as  before.  After  once  more  kneading  it,  and  placing  it  to 
rise,  form  the  dough  into  loaves,  bricks,  or  rolls,  of  any  shape 
M  aixe,  laj  them  on  tin  plates ;  set  them  before  the  fifS'  to  riaa 
§6r  dbout  twenty  minutes;  and,  having  baked  them  in  a  qui^ 
oven,  let  them  be  rtaped  while  hot.  Some  po'sona,  wiA  the 
butter,  &c.  put  in  an  egg,  leaving  out  half  the  white.  This  ' 
fine  French  bread  will  be  found  a  less  expensive  luxury  than 
may  edier  article  of  food  which  is  at  all  so  considered. 


The  Roftrend  Mr.  Hdggtfs  Et&mmmmd  Bread. 

lliis  economical  l>read  is  whoUy  made  with  wheat,  and  the 
respectable  contriver  deserves  great  praise  for  his  invention ; 
but,  it  is  to  be  feared,  the  invincible  pl^^dlces  of  the  poor 
against  brown  bread  will  always  prevent  tbem  from  sufficientfy 
receiving  the  benefit  of  this  gentleman's  benevolent  intentioiis* 
It  is  our  duty«  however,  to  assist  in  promulging  the  possibility* 
For  the  purpose  of  making  this  bread,  only  the  coarse 
bran  is  to  be  taken  from  the  wheat ;  and  tlie  aeeond  coat,  or 
polUurd,  giXMind  wi^  the  meal,  as  is  usual  for  whaateu  brtad. 
Five  pounds  of  this  bran  are  to  be  boiled  in  somewhat  more 
tfian  fbur  gallons  of  water;  to  order  tbat>  #hen  perfectly 
smooth,  three  gaSons  and  three  quarts  of  dear  bvan-waler 
may  be  poured  into,  and  ktieaded  up  with,  fifty-six  pounds  of 
the  brown  fiour,  adding  salt,  as  well  as  yeast;  ia  the  same  way 
as  for  other  bread.  When  the  dough  is  ready  to  bake,  the 
loaves  are  to  be  made  up,  and  baked  two  hours  and  a  half.  As 
fiour,  when  thus  made  up^  will  imbibe  three  quarts  more  of 
this  bran  liquor  than  of  eomrnon  water,  it  mdently  pvoducea 
net  oi^y  a  more  nutritiotts  and  substantial  fbod,  but  augmanta 
dne-fiftti  part  the  usual  quantity  ^  bitid ;  wbkfa  ferns  a  saving 
of  ne  less*  thaii  one  day  »  coosumptien  o»t  of  six.  Thiaeeoyioc 
mieid  bread,  wheit  tea  daye  old,  if  put  iAtu  theovcD  Ibr  twenty 
mfttuies^  YffBi  agaia  appear  qwte  new. 


EmeUent  Dut  Bread. 
Sift  a  pound  of  the  fioect  dour,  and  dry  it  well  hy  the  Are. 
Beat  up  eight  eggs,  Am-  m  abort  time ;  and  then,  adding  a  pound 
of  beaten  and  soft  loaf-angar,  bj  degrees,  oontiuue  bcAthig 
them  together  for  an  hour  and  a  halC  Then,  having  brfors 
takeo  the  Sour  ftom  the  fire,  strew  it  in  oold ;  with  half  aa 
ounce  i^  caraway  and  coriander  seeds,  mixed  together  and 
slightly  bmiaed.  The  beating,  in  the  meao  time,  moat  not 
cease,  or  be  at  all  disc<»tinued,  till  the  whole  is  put  into  the 
paper  mould  or  hoop,  and  set  in  a  qnick  but  not  too  hot  otoo. 
One  boar  will  be  quite  suffident  to  bake  it. 

HuMting  Bread, 
Mix  a  pound  and  a  half  of  fine  flour,  and  a  pound  <^  augar  ; 
then  add  caraway  and  coriander  seeds,  as  many  as  Toaj  be 
thought  proper,  with  six  ycdks  of  eggs  and  lour  of  the  whites 
beat  up  in  a  little  rose  water,  and  strained  into  the  flour.  After 
which,  put  iu  a  little  yeast,  to  make  the  dough  light ;  roll  it 
«nt  thin ;  and  cut  k  into  pieces  like  loseuges,  to  be  baked  oo 
botteied  papers  or  tin  sheets.  This  is  taken  from  a  valuaUe 
collection  of  manuscript  receipts. 

Riu  BrtMd. 

Steep  a  pound  of  whole  rice  in  water  till  It  is  quite  tender, 
pour  off  the  water,  and  put  the  rice  before  it  is  cold  to  ibui 
pounds  and  a  half  of  wheat  flour.  Add  the  usual  quantity 
of  yeast  (about  a  qoartff  of  a  pint,)  rather  more  than  the 
■aual  quanti^  of  salt,  and  as  mudi  luke-wann  water  as  will 
make  it  into  doogfa.  It  will  require  the  same  time  to  rise  as 
common  bread,  and  is  to  be  baked  in  the  same  manner. 

Potato  Bread. 
Weigh  half  a  pound  of  mealy  potatoea  after  they  are  bculed 
or  steamed,  and  rub  them  while  waim  into  a  pound  and  a  half 
of  fine  flour  dried  for  a  little  white  before  the  fire.  When  tbo- 
loogfaly  mixed,  put  in  a  spoonful  and  a  half  of  yeast,  a  little 
salt,  and  warm  milk  and  water  enough  to  work  it  into  a  dongh- 
Let  this  stand  before  the  fire  to  rise  for  an  hour  and  a  faslC 
then  make  it  into  a  loaf,  and  bake  it  in  a  moderatelf  brisk 


/ 


If  hJbBi  in  it  tin  the  crost  wiU  be  mare  delksle,  but  the 
teced  dries  sooner. 

Te  make  Feast. 

Tlucken  two  qtuurts  of  water  with  fine  flour,  aboat  three 
epoonfok ;  boil  half  en  honr,  sweeten  with  near  half  a  pound 
of  brown  sugar :  iHien  near  oold»  put  into  it  fbur  spoonfuls  of 
fresh  yeast  in  a  jog,  shake  it  well  together,  and  let  it  stand  one 
da^  to  fisrmeni  near  the  fire,  without  being  covered.  There 
will  be  a  thin  liquor  on  Ihe  top,  which  most  be  poured  off; 
shake  the  remainder,  and  cork  it  up  for  use.  Take  always  four 
spoonfuls  of  the  old  to  ferment  the  nf zt  quantity,  keeping  it 
always  in  succession. 

To  take  off  the  bitter  of  yeast,  put  bran  into  a  sieve,  and 
prar  it  through,  having  first  mixed  a  little  warm  water  with  it. 


Dr.  Hunier*$  InstrueHam  fw  mMng  PoMo  Yeasi. 

Boil  a  pound  of  mealy  potatoes  till  they  are  thoroughly 
done ;  then  skin  them,  mash  them  very  smdSth,  and  put  to  the 
mass  as  much  hot  water  as  will  make  it  of  the  consistency  of 
common  yeast ;  after  which,  run  it  through  a  colander,  adding 
two  ounces  of  brown  sugar ;  and,  when  only  just  warm,  stir 
in  two  table-spoonfuls  of  common  yeast.  Keep  the  mixture 
warm  till  it  has  done  fermenting,  and  in  twenty-four  hours  it 
will  be  fit  for  use.  The  pound  of  potatoes  makes  a  quart  of 
yeast,  which  will  keep  a  month  or  six  weeks.  The  bread  is 
recommended  by  Dr.  Hunter  to  be  laid  eight  or  ten  hours  be- 
fore baking ;  who  says  that  it  is  not,  when  made  with  this 
potato  yeast,  to  be  distinguished  from  that  made  with  yeast  pur « 
chased  of  the  brewer. 

«  ' 

To  preserve  Yeaet.^ 

When  you  have  plenty  of  yeast,  begin  to  save  it  in  the  fol« 
lowing  manner :— ^Whisk  it  until  it  becomes  thin,'  then  take  a 
new  lai^e  wooden  dish,  wash  it  very  nicely,  and  when  quite 
dry,  lay  a  layer  of  yeast  ov^  the  inside  with  a  soft  brush  ;  let 
it  dry,  then  put  another  layer  in  the  same  manner,  and  so  do 
until  you  have  a  sufficient  quantity,  observing  that,  each  coat 
dry  thoroughly  before  another  be    added.  ^  ft  may  be  put  on 

19  3  s 


tW  -  ttotminc  coorVBT. 

twftdrflutbincbet  thick.  aadwiU  keep  sentidmoudn!  lihmi 
to  be  used,  cut  a  piece  out ;  stir  it  in  warm  iMtnv 

If  to  be  used  for  brewing,  keep  it  by  dipping  large  hand- 
faU  of  birch  tied  togetbei't  and  when  dry,  repeat  the  dipping 
aaoe.  Yoti  may  thus  do  aB  many  as  you  please ;  bit  fake  ^re 
that  no  (luflt  comes  to  them,  or  the  vessel  in  iriiich  it  ha!)  been 
pnepared  oa  before.  When  the  wprt  ii  aet  to  work,  thivw  into 
it  «ne  of  iJiese  bunches,  and  it  wiU  do  as  wdf  oa  with  ftcab 
yeast;  but  if  mixed  with  a  amall  qnuititf  flrat,  and  tben 
^dded  to  the  whole,  it  will  work  eooiier. 

tSA-CAKM,  &c. 

FrauA  RbIU, 
.  Take  a  pint  and  a  half  tf  milk,  make  it  quite  warm,  htSt 
a  pint  of  atnall  beer  yeaat,  add  sufficient  flonr  to  make  it  as 
thick.  «•  batter,  put  it  into  a  pan, '  tover  it  ovc^,  md  keep  it 
Tarm ;  when  it  has  risen  aa  high  aa  it  wtll.  add  a  t^uarter  of  a 
pint  of  warm  water,  and  half  an  onnce  of  saltf^miz  tbeik 
well  together,— rub  into  a  little  flour  two  otmcet  of  bntter, 
then  make  yoiu-  dough,  not  quite  so  adff  aa  for  your  bned,  let 
it  stand  for  three  quarters  of  an  hour,  and  it  will  be  ready  to 
^nake  into  rolls,  &c.— let  tbem  stand  till  tbey  have  risea,  and 
bake  them  in  a  quick  oTcn. 

Faminu  Bath  R»iU  tsr  Caktt. 

In*  pint  of  milk  warm  twonuncesof  butter,  and  add  three 
qwoilifols  <S  table  beer  y«ast,  with  k  Very  small  quawiity  of 
saffron  boiled  in  a  cupful  of  milk,  and  a  littie  salt :  mix  it  well 
with  four  pounds  of  fine  dried  and  sifted  flour;  set  thepasit 
to  rise  for  about  half  an  hour;  knead  it  sufficiently;  and, 
making  it  up  into  twelte  or  fourteen  roUs  or  cakes  about  three 
iiidiea  thick",  bt^e  them  in  a  quick  oren.  They  sre  cbunDnly 
made  without  the  safiron,  but  kxdt  mudt  fietter  with  iL 

PtHato  Rofk. 


«DliuQd$r. '  Pot  a  quarter  of  ^  pint  of  warm  wat^r  tQ  a  quttriftr 
of  a  pint  4>f  ypasti  a4d  these  and  sopoae  gait  to  the  pptatqips^  apd 
ipaix  the  whole  up  with  the  flour.  If  it  works  up  to^.  stiff  a 
tittle  more  mift  must  be  abided.  .  Whsu  it  is  weU  knei(dsd»  se^ 
it  before  the  Ike  to  rise  for  half  an  hoor^  .then  work  it  up  into 
common  sized  roUs,  and  bake  tliem  half  an  hour  in  a  prettjK 
quick  oven. 

Salfjf  Lunn'i  Te^hCakes. 

Take  one  pint  of  milk  quite  wanta,  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of 
ihidc  small  beer:yeast,  put  them  into  a  pan  with  floor  anfllcient 
to  make  jt  as  thick  as  batter, — cover  it  over,  am}  let  k '  stand 
till  it  baa  risen  as  high  as  it  wiU^  i.  e.  about  two  homrs:  add 
iwo  ounces  of  lump  sugar,  dissolved  in  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of 
warm  miik,  (if  you  do  not  miod  the  expense,  the  cake  will  bf 
maeh  Ugbter,  if  instead  of  the  milk  you  put  •  foor  egigs,)  a 
quarter  of  .a  pound  of  butter  rubbed  into  .your  flcfcirvery  flnei, 
,  ip-tlsen  make  your  dough  the  same  as  -for  Freaefa  roUs,  &o. 
-*let  it  stand  half  an  hour,  then  make  up  your  cakes,  and  put 
them  on  tins;  -whan  they  have  sto^  to  rise,  bake  them  in  a 
quick  bven« 

Cave  slKmU  be  taken  never  to  put  your  yeast  to  water  or 
anflk  too  hot  or  too  cold,  as  either  extreme  will  destroy  the 
JBeNaentatien.  In  summ«  it  should  be  lukewarm,— in  winter 
<«  litde  warmer,«-«nd  in  very  ebid  weather,  warmer  still. 
Vhen  it  has  irst  risen,  if  you  tare  not  prepared,  it  will  n«t 
liurt  ^  stand  an  hoar, 

/        Muffins  and  Oumpe/i. 

In  ofd^  tb  bake  muffins  and  erumpets  properly,  a  i^de  is 
first  to  be  constructed  with  a  furnace,  as  if  intended  for  a  cop- 
per ;  but  having  a  piece  of  cast  iron  all  over  the  top,  resem- 
Hbting  the  bottom  of  a  at»pper  or  large  iron  pot;  and,  when 
wanted  £99  use,  a  eoal  fire  must  he  made  in  the  furnace 
beneath,  esaetly  in  the  same  manner  as  &r  heating  a  copper. 
The  regular  meSbed  of  preparing  most  excellent  muffins  is 
simply  as  IbUows  :-^Put  a  quarter  of  a  peck  of  the  finest  and 
wbitestftmr  into  the  kneading  trough,  and,  mixing  a  pint  and 
•a  half  of  wann  milk  and  water,  with  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of 
good  mild  ale  yeast,  and  a  little  salt,  stir  them  well  together 


600  BOMBSTtC  COOl^BBr. 

finr  a  qaatter  of  an  hour,  strain  the  liqueur  mto  the  floor^  mia; 
the  dou^h  as  high  as  possible,  and  set  it  for  an  hour  to  rise. 
Then  roll  it  up  with  the  hands,  pull  it  into  pieces  the  siae  of  a 
large  walnut,  roll  them  in  the  hand  tike  balls,  and  lay  a'flannel 
over  them  as  fkst  as  they  are  rolled  up,  carefully  keeping  all  the 
dough  closely  covered.  The  whole  dough  being  rolled  into 
balls,  those  first  done  will  be  nearly  ready  fat  baking,  which 
is  known  by  theur  spreading  out  into  the  right  form  formuffina. 
Lay  them  then  on  the  heated  plate,  and,  as  the  bottom  b^ins  to 
change  colour,  instantly  turn  them  on  the  other  side.  Great 
care  must  be  taken  to  prevent  their  burning ;  and,  if  the  mid« 
die  of  the  plate  be  too  hot,  a  brick  or  two  should  be  placed  ia 
the  centre  of  the  fire,,  to  slacken  the  heat  of  the  furnace.  A 
superior  sort  of  muffins  is  pretended  to  be  made  by  mixing  & 
pound  of  fipur  with  a  single  egg^  an  ounce  of  butter  mdited  in 
bfd£  a  pint  of  milk,  and  two  table*spoonfnls  of  yeast,  beat 
thorou^y  together,  set  two  or  three  hours  to  rise,  and  made 
up  and  baked  in  the  usual  way.  Crumpets  are  commonly 
made  with  a  thin  batter  of  flour,  milk,  and  water,  anda  very 
smiall  quantity  of  yeast  only,  poured  on  the  iron  hearth  like 
pancakes  into  a  frying-pan,  which  they  must  resemUe  both  in 
form  and  substance.  They  are  expeditiously  done  on  one  side, 
and  must  be  carefully .  turned  in  time  on  the  other.  Botk 
muffins  and  crumpets  are  very  agreeable  with  tea  or  ooffiBCE» 
.either  when  buttered  hot  as  soon  as  baked,  or  on  being  after- 
ward well  toasted  and  buttered ;  the  crumpets  are  buttered 
on  both  sides,  and  the  muffins  being  cut  round,  and  pulled 
open  in  two  when  toasted,  are  buttered  on  both  parts  in  the 
middle.  Children  are,  in  general,  fondest  of  crumpets ;  muf^ 
fins  are  alone  introduced  at  coffin-houses,  &e.  in  London* 

Fine  Yorkshire  Cakes. 

Mix  two  pounds  of.  flour  with  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  but- 
ter melted  in  a  pint  of  milk,  a  couple  ci  beaten  eggs,  and  three 
spoonfub  oi  good  yeast  Mingle,  the  whole  well  together ;  set 
ft  to  rise;  then  knead  it,  and  make  it  into  cakes  of  about  six 
inches  diameter.  They  are  to  be  baked  in  a  slow  ovoi,  but  let 
them  first  stand  on  tins  to  rise.  They  are  lighter  when  made 
without  butter,  but  eat  shorter  with  it.    Th^  are  either  but- 


BREAD,  TBA-CAKBS,  &C.  601 

tered  hot  out  of  the  oven,  or  cut  in  two  when  cold,  toasted 
toown,  and  battered  for  breakfint  or  afternoon  tea. 

''  Beat  seven  eggs  weU,  and  mix  with  half  a  pint  of  new 
milk,  in  which  have  been  melted  four  ounces  of  butter;  add 
to  it  a  qoarter  of  a  pint  of  yeast,  and  three  ounces  of  sugar, 
and  pat  them,  by  degrees,  into  as  much  floor  as  will  make  a 
■very  light  paste,  rather  likea batter,  and  let  it  rise  before  the 
fire  half  an  hour;  dien  add  some  more  flour,  to  make  it  a  little 
etifler,  but  not  stiff.  Work  it  well,  and  divide  it  into  small 
loaves,  or  cakes,  about  five  or  six  inches  wide,  and  flatten 
them.  When  baked,  and  cold,  slice  them  the  thickness  of 
rusks,  and  put  them  in  the  oven  to  brown  a  little. 

N.  B.  The  cakes,  when  first  baked,  eat  deliciously  buttered 
for  tea ;  or,  with  caraways,  to  eat  cold. 

Oat  Cake$. 

Sift  a  quarter  of  a  peck  of  fine  oatmeal ;  then  take  rather 
more  than  a  pint  of  milk-warm  water,  half  a  gill  of  mild  ale 
or  good  small  beer  yeast,  and  half  an  ounce  of  salt ;  stir  them 
well  together  fi)r  about  ten  minutes,  strain  the  whole  into  the 
oatmeal,  mix  the  dough  high  in  the  same  manner  as  for 
muffins,  and  let  it  remain  an  hour  to  rise.  Afterward,  roll  it 
up  witii  the  hand,  and  pull  it  into  pieces  about  the  sise  of  an 
egg;  roll  them  oot  with  a  rolling-pin  on  a  good  deal  <^  flour, 
cover  them  wtdi  flannel,  and  they  will  soon  rise  to  a  proper 
thickness.  Should  they,  however,  be  found  either  too  big 
or  too  little,  it  will  be  easy  to  roll  the  dough  accordingly. 
They  are  to  be  baked  on  an  iron  plate,  just  like  muffins. 
Toast  them  crisp  on  both  sides,  but  do  not  burn  them ;  then 
puD  them  open,  and  they  will  appear  like  a  honey-comb;  lay 
in  some  butter,  clap  the  two  pieces  again  together,  and  only 
osaa  kmfi»  for  the  purpose  of  afterward  cutting  them  into 
pieces.  This  is  the  best  method  of  preparing  muffins,  a&  weB, 
as  oat  cakes. 


M5|  90MJBSTIC  COOKERT 


•     T 


HOME  BREWERY. 

Inatmeticns  for  hremng  MM  lAquH*. 

Jl  HE  Irs^  thing  to  be  considered  is,  andoat>tedlyy.  tbe  hpng 
lirovided.  with  implementfl  proper  £9r  the  purpose;  And  of  thes^ 
the  popper  ^pejirs  to  be  the  first  object. 

Tbe  position  of  the  copper,  and  tbe  inanner  of  setting  i^ 
must  be  duly  considered,  as  much  depends  thereon^ 

An  inoonven^ence  too  frequently  Hound  in  c^pp^s  i^ 
their  being  mad9  too  exact  to  thi^r  intended  quantity ;  in 
consequence  of  which,  room  is  not  left  sufficient  to  boil  the 
liquor  in  with  any  degree  of  rapidity  or  safiety,  which  musit 
naturally  be  supposed  to  be  essential  points.  To  remedy  thia 
inconvenience,  let  your  cavpentef  pnepare  good  seasoned  pieces 
of  elm,  or  other  proper  wood,  and  shape  it  out  like  the 
felly  of  a  9iaggd  waggon- wheel,  but  only  half  its  thickness,  and 
then  join  thera  round  to  cprnpose  the  dimensions  of  the  cird^ 
of  the  cppper.  The  rim  of  th^  copper,  iffueh  g&^enii^ 
inrns  over  as  ^  bearing  at  ;the  top^  pay  he  beat  op,  and  tlmt 
|»art  nsaled  to  the  bottom  p«rt  of  the  wood^work,  bruahin^^ 
J^tween  the  wood  -work  and  tb^  oo|^r  a  cement  composed  of 
IbuUock's  blood  and  irbilJng)  mixed  ^nly  to  t^ie  thickness  qf 
common  whitewiish.  Thjs  cement  will  prarei^t  any  leak,  and 
lafiit  as  long  as  the  copper. 

This  work  is  of  great  support  and  ease  to  the  copper ;  aii4 
.by  this  mode  yoo  can  also  incfoase  itf  dimensiooa  from  three 
to  twelve  or  more  inches  in  the  wood*«reirk,  whieh  wiU  a4d 
considerably  to  your  guage,  especially  iq  large  oeppece. 
This  methodf  however,  is  reoomsnended  only  where  atop* 
draughts  are  made  use  of,  in  which  case  the*  wood  may  be 
applied  romcKi  with  great  safety ;  for  die  fires  of  those  never 
burn  so  furiously  that  the  least  damage  can  ensue.  For  tbe 
raising  of  other  coppers,  built  on  different  constructions,  brick, 
stone,  or  tarris  mortar,  may  be  used. 

The  next  to  be  considered  are  the  cooUriy  and  these  are 
things  of  no  small  consequence;  for,  if  they  are  not  properly 


I 


tAea  ciM  if,  the  liquor^  by  a  teemingly  secret  atid  ttiUM)- 
ciMiiitabkp  cuat,  will  attract  a  disagreeable  twang.  Thii  oft^ 
ytoeeedt  from  Wet  having  been  infiised  in  the  wood)  a^  it  ii 
lometiiKlea  apt  to  lodge  in  the  crevices  of  old  coolers,  and  erett 
iolto  tixem  to  such  a  diigi^e,  that  it  will  not  depart,  thongh 
many  washings  and  icaldiDgt  are  applied.  One  cause  inci- 
dental to  this  evil  is  peroiittin|r  women  to  wash  in  a  brew-house, 
which  ought  by  no  means  to  be  permitted,  where  any  ethe^ 
ODnveoieace  is  to  be  had;  for  nothing  can  be  more  hurtfal  thaa 
tlie  slops  of  soap-^uds. 

It  is  indi^nsaMy  necessary  that  the  coolers  be  Well 
Boonred  with  cold  water  two  or  three  times  ;  ocAd  Water  being 
DSore  proper  ^an  hot  to  effect  a  perfect  cleansing,  especially 
if  they  are  iik  a  bad  eondition  from  the  undiscovered  filth  that 
may  be  in  the  crevices.  The  application  of  hot  watier  will 
drive  the  infection  further;  or  if  your  drink  be  let  hit6  tb6 
coolers,  and  if  any  remain  in  the  crev^s,  as  befOre-mention- 
•d,  the  heat  will  collect  the  fonlness,  and  render  the  whole 
imwhtfleseme. 

Hopiness  ih  beer  Is  sometimes  produced  when  yon  mash 
with  water  exceedingly  hot.  This  is  liable  to  set  the  midt ; 
which  is  clogging  it  «p  t^  such  a  degree,  that  it  is  almost  impos* 
s3de  tA  get  it  to  run  off:  and  when  by  art  you  have  accomplishu 
ed  d>e  difficulty,  it  never  answers  your  wishes  in  point  of 
goosbiess. 

Be  paftieolarly  careful  that  the  maik^ub  be  kept  pei4<ectly 
dean:  nor  most  the  gnins  be  left  in  the  tub  any  longer  than 
the  day  afte^  brewing,  lest  it  should  soar  the  tub ;  for  if  there 
be  A  amir  smell  io  the  brew-hoUde  bc^vre  your  beer  is  tunned, 
it  will  be  apt  to  infect  your  liquor  and  wort& 

As  we  have  niow  pwperly  explained  the  preeautione  neces- 
•ibey  to  iie  taken  in  the  preparation  of  vessels,  we  shall  enter 
kito  a  coneae  detail  of  what  is  to  be  observed  in  the  course  ^ 
krewing* 

Hiving  yovr  ateniils  scalded,  yo«r  wiallt  gvoond,  your  cop« 
pet  boiliiig,  and  your  penataff  well  set,  you  iMust  then  pn>« 
dead  to  ^mai^  by  letting  a  suflldent  quavitity  of  billing  water 
into  yoaritib,  in  which  it  omst  stand  until  the  greater  {kart  of 
the  steam  is  gone  off,  «r  until  yon  mA  see  your  owfi  shadow 
in  it.    It  wiU  then  be  necessary  that  one  person  ahanld  poutr 


6M  B0HB8TIC  COOKBRT. 

the  nudt  gendy  in;  while  another  is  careAilly  tftirriogit;  for 
it  b  as  necessary  that  as  much  care  should  be  obeeryed  when 
Ae  mash  is  thin  as  when  it  is  thicks  This  being  effectnally 
and  WeU  dape,  and  having  a  sufficient  tesenre  of  raalt  to  cover 
the  masby  to  prevent  evaporation^  you  may  cover  your  tub 
with  sacks,  &c/  and  leave  your  malt  three  hours  to  steep. 

Previous  to  your  letting  the  mash  run^  yon  should  not  fail 
4o  be  prepared  with  a  pail  to  catch  the  first  flush,'  as  that  is 
generally  thickish;  and.  another  pail  being  applied  while  yoa 
return  the  first  on  the  mash,  and  so  on  tor  two  or  three  timesi, 
or  at  least  until  it  run  fine.  ■  By  this  time  your  copper  should 
be  boiling,  and  a  convenient  tub  placed  close  to  your  maali« 
tub ;  let  into  it  through  your  spout  half  the  quantity  of  boil- 
ing water  you  mean  to  use  for  drawing  off  yonr  best  wort. 
After  this,  you  must  instantly  turn  your  cock  to  fill  up  again, 
which  will  boil  in  due  time  with  cinders  or  coal-ashes.  During 
such  time,  you  most  stop  the  mash  with  this  hot  water  out  of 
the  convenient  tub,  in  moderate  quantities,  every  eight  or  ten 
minutes,  until  the  whole  is  consumed ;  then  letting  off  the  re« 
maining  quantity,  which  will  be  boiling  hot^  to  the  finishing 
purpose  for  strong  beer. 

You  must  then  fill  your  copper  quite  full,  so  as  to  boil 
quickly  for  the  second  mash,  whether  joa  intend  it  for  ale 
or  small  beer.  Being  thus  da  prepare4i  let  off  the  remaining 
quantity  of  water  into  the  tub,  as  you  did  for  the  strong  beer, 
stopped  up  as  before ;  but  if  you  would  have  small  beer 
besides,  you  must  judge  it  accordingly,  by  boiling  a  proper 
quantity  off  in  due  time,  and  letting  it  into  the  tub  as  before. 
It  is  better  to  avoid  the  latter  article,  that  you  may  entirely 
draw  out  the  strength  for  the  ale. 

Twenty*foar  bushiels  of  malt  will  tntkt  two  hogsheads  of 
*  as  good  strong  beer  as  any  in  Engbuid,  and  also  two  hogaheada 
of  very  pretty  ale,  but  the  malt  should  consist  of  equal  portions 
of  brown,  amber,  and  pale.  The  strong  beer  should  be  kept 
two  or  three  years,  and  the  ale  never  1^  than  one,  before 
tapped.  If  your  mash  be  only  for  one  hogshead,  it  should  be 
two  hours  in  runniog  off ;  if  for  two  hogshauU,  two  hooss  and 
a  half;  and  for  any  greater  quantity,  three  hours :  ior  there  ia 
BO  good  in  letting  it  be  too  long,  as  the  Whole  strength  is  ex- 
tracted by  the  frequent  stoppings* 


affecting  the  brain  for  two  or  three  dtya  aficr  intoxication. 
i^his  ia  the  effect  of  long  boiling ;  for  in  that  county  they  b<ut 
liquor  for  three  houre ;  and  what  is  atill  wone,  when  it  unka 
in  the  copper,  from  the  waste  in  boiling,  they  every  now  Mid 
then  add  a  little  fresh  wort,  which,  without  doubt,  must  tend 
to  several  stagnations,  productive  nf  several  impurities. 

Your  liquor  being  properly  boiled,  be  sure  to  traverse  a 
•mall  quantity  quite  over  all  the  coalers,  so  as  to  get  a  pn^er 
quanti^  cold  immediately  to  set  to  work;  but  if  the  airinesa 
of  your  brew-house  is  not  sufficient  to  expedite  a  quantity 
•oon,  you  must  traverse  a  second  quantity  over  the  coolera, 
and  then  let  it  into  shallow  tubs.  Put  these  into  any  passage 
where  there  ia  a  thorough  draught  of  air,  but  where  no  nin 
Ot  other  wet  can  get  communication  to  it.  Then  let  off  the 
quantity  of  two  baring  tubfula  from  the  first  over  the  aeomd 
«id  third  coolers,  which  may  be  soon  got  cold,  to  be  ready 
for  a  speedy  workings  and  then  the  remaining  part  that  is  in 
your  copper  may  be  quite  let  out  into  the  6rst  cooler.  In  the 
meantime,  mend  the  Gre,  and  also  attend  to  the  hops,  to  make 
a  clear  passage  through  the  atrainer.  Having  proceeded  thns 
far,  and  the  liquor  has  done  running,  be  sure  to  remember, 
when  you  have  got  four  or  five  pailfuli,  you  return  all  the 
bops  into  the  copper  for  the  ale. 

By  this  time,  the  small  quantity  of  liquor  traversed  over 
your  coolers  being  sufficiently  cooled,  you  must  now  proceed 
to  set  your  liquor  to  work.  Take  four  quartb  of  bann,  and 
divide  half  of  it  into  small  vessels,  such  as  clean  bowls, 
basins,  or  mugs,  adding  thereto  an  equal  quantity  of  wort, 
which  should  be  almost  cold.  As  soon  as  it  ferments  to  the 
top  of  .the  vessel,  put  it  inty  two  pails ;  and  when  that  woAm 
to  the  top,  put  ,one  into  a  baring  tub,  and  the  o\ha  into  ano- 
ther. ,  When  you  ha^e  half  a  baring  tubfiil  together,  yon  may 
put  the  like  quantity  to  each  of  ,dieai,  and  dien  cover  than 
overi  until  it  cornea  to  a  fine  caulifiower  head.  This  may  be 
perfectly  completed  in  three;  hours,  and  then  put  those  two 
quantities  into  the  working  guile.  You  may  now  add  as  mudi 
wort  as  you  have  got  ready,  for  yon  cannot  vrork  it  too  cold  in 
open  weather. 

If  you  brew  in  cold  Irosty  weather,  keep  the  brew-bouse 
warm,  but  never  add  hot  wort  to  keqi  lite  liquor  to  a  blood 


HOME  BRBWERT.  607 

heat,  that  bein^  a  bad  maxim ;  for  hot  wort  put  to  cold,  as  well 
aa  cold  to  hot,  is  so  intemperate  in  its  nature,  that  it  stagnates 
the  proper  operation  of  the  barm» 

You  most  be  careful  that  your  barm  be  not  from  foxed 
beer^  that  is,  beer  heated  by  ill  management  in  its  working; 
for  in  that  case  it  is  likely  to  carry  with  it  the  contagion.  If 
your  barm  be  flat^  and  you  cannot  procure  that  whieh  is  new» 
the  method  of  recovering  its  working  is,  by  putting  to  it  a 
pint  of  warm  sweet  wort  of  your  first  letting  off,  the  heat  to 
be  of  half  the  degree  of  milk  warm.  Then  give  your  mug 
that  contains  it  a  shake,  and  it  will  soon  gather  strength  and 
be  fit  for  use.  Half  a  pound  of  good  hops  is  sufficient  for  a 
bushel  of  malt  for  strong  beer,  to  keep  for  four  years^  twelve 
bushels  to  the  hogshead. 

We  come  now  to  the  last  and  most  simple  operation  in  the 
business  of  brewing,  whidi  is  the  tunning.  Your  casks  being 
perfectly  dean^  sweet,  and  dry,  and  set  on  the  stand  ready  to 
receive  the  liquor,  first  skim  off  the  top  barm,  then  proceed  to 
fill  your  casks  quite  full,  and  immediately  bung  and  peg  them 
dose.  Bore  a  hole  with  a  tap-borer,  near  the  summit  of 
the  stave«  at  the  same  distance  from  the  top  as  the  lower  tap- 
hole  is  from  the  bottom,  for  working  through  that  upper  hole, 
which  is  a  dean  and  more  effectual  method  than  working  it 
over  the  cask ;  for^  by  the  above  method,  being  so  closely  con- 
fined, it  soon  sets  itself  into  a  convulsive  motion  of  working, 
and  forces  itsdf  fine,  provided  you  attend  to  the  filling  of  your 
casks  five  or  six  times  a  day :  for  by  too  long  an  omission  it 
begins  to  settle,  and  afterwards  being  disturbed,  it  raises  a 
diarp  fermentation,  which  produces  an  incessant  working  of  a 
spurious  firoth,  that  may  continue  for  some  weeks,  and  a^er  all 
give  your  beer  a  crankish  taste,  which  proper  attention  might 
have  prevented. 

Having  thus  gone  through  the  principal  matters  in  the 
practical  part  of  brewing,  we  shall  now  proceed  to  instruct 
the  housekeeper  in  the  management  of  malt  liquors,  the  proper 
time  for  brewing,  and  shall  make  some  observations  on  the  dif- 
ferent qualities  of  water,  malt  and  hops.  ^ 

The  month  of  March  is  ''generally  considered  as  one  of  the 
prindpal  seasons  &r  brewing  malt  liquor  for  long  keeping ; 
and  the  reason  isi  because  the  air  at  that  time  of  the^year  is 


^a  DaMESTIC  COQKBBY. 

temperafSe,  and  contributes  to  the  good:  woifcing  aiid  fermen-^ 
tation  of  the  liqux)r»  which  principally  promotes  its  pre-< 
servation^  and  good  keeping.  Very  cold  as  well  as  very  hot 
Tfeatber,  prevents' the  free  fermentfttion  or  working  of  liquors'; 
sp  tbaty  if  you  brew  in  very  dold  ilreathisr,  u^eas  you  usd 
dognae.iiueans  to  warm  the  cellar  while  new  drink  is  warfcing, 
i^  will  never  clear  itself  in  the  tnamior  you  .would  wish  ;  -and 
the  same  misfortune  'will  arise  if,  in  vary  hot  weather,  the 
cellar  be  not  put  into  a  temperate  state.  The  consequence  of 
all  which  will  be,  that  such  driuk  will  be  muddy  and  aoor^ 
perhaps  beyond  all  recovery.  Such  ihia&itunes  often  hi^ 
pen,  even  in  th^  proper  season  for  brewing,  and  that  owing 
to  tbe^  badness  of  a  cellar ;  for  whdn  they  are  dug  in  springy 
grounds,  or  ai'e  subject  to  damps  in  wintert  the  iiquor  will 
ebill,  and  grow  flat  and  dead.  Where  eellars  are  of  this  nature, 
it  will  be  advisable  to  make  your  bt^wings  in  March,  rather 
than  in  October;  for  you  may  keep  such  cellars  temperate 
iu  summer,  but  cannot  warm  them  in  winter.  Thus  your  beer 
brewed  in  March  will  have  due  time  to  setde  and  adjust  itself 
before  the  cold  can  materially  injure  it. 

It  is  advisable  to  build  your  eellars  for  keeping  liquors  afber 
such  a  manner,  that  no  external  air  can  get  into  them ;  for 
the  variation  of  the  air  abroBd>  where  there  is  free  admission  of 
it  into  the  cellars,  would  cause  as  many  altercations  in  the 
liquor,  and  would  thereby  keep  it  in  so  nnsettled  a  state,  as 
to  render  it  unfit  for  drinking.  Some  people,  eutious  in  these 
matters,,  have  double  doors  to  their  cdlars,  with  a  view  that 
none  of  the  external  air  may  find  a  way  into  them,  and  are 
amply  repaid  for  their  care  and  expense  by  the  goodness  of 
their  liquor. 

To  speak  in  general,  the  best  water  is  river-water,  such  as 
is  soft,  and  has  partaken  of  the  air  and  sun ;  for  thia  easily 
insinuates  itself  into  the  malt,  and  extracts  its  virtues.  (M 
the  contrary,  hard  waters  astringe  and  bind  the  pores  of  the 
malt,  so  that  its  virtue  is  not  freely  communicated  to  the 
liquor.  It  is  a  rule  with  some,  that  all  water  that  wfll  mix 
with  soap  is  fit  for  brewing,  and  they  will  by  no  means  al}o« 
of  tcay  other ;  and  it  has  been  more  than  cmoe  experienced, 
that  where  the  same  quantity  of  malt  has  been  used  to  i|  barrel 
of  liver  water,  as  to  a  barrel  of  spring  water,  the  river  water 


.     IIOMB.BBEWBRT*:  £40 

biaewiiig^  Has  ezdaUed  die  Mmr  in  strength  ^kUbeiU  *§vt  4egrtB«9 
in  twelve  month^. .  it  must  1^  tibserved  lik^wiat,  tilat  the 
nud^t  WAS  not  onljr  the  tame  in  >qaahtity  fi»r  one  barrel  as  fw  the 
oAer^  but  was  the  same  m  qiialitj,  having  been  all  measareil 
^roaaoL  the  same  heap.  The  hops  were:  also  the  same,  both  in 
qafdifty  and  quantify,  >and  the  time  and  boiiin/^  equal  to  each* 
They  were  worked  in  the  same  mamiery  and  tunned  and  kept  ¥k 
the.  same  cellar.  Here  it  was  evident,  that  the  onlydif&renoe 
was.  in  the  water,  and  yet  one  barrel  was  f^orth  twoof  the 
other. 

If  water  happen  to  be  of  a  hard  nature,  H  may  ibe  soften* 
ed  by  exposing  it  to  the  air'and  sjoii,  aiid  putting  into  it  soi^e 
pieces  of  soft  chidk  to  infuse ;  or  when  th^  water  is  set  on  to 
boil,  in  order  to  be  poi^red  on  the  malt,  put  into  it  a  quantity 
a£  bean,  which  will  help  a  iittle  to  Mien  it. 

The  goodness  of  such  -drink  ais  is  brewed'for  keeping,  irt  a 
^reat  measure  depends  on  the  goodness  of  the  cellar  in  vhiek 
it  is  kept ;  fi>r  damp  cellars,  we  £nd  by  experience,  a¥<e  injun- 
<yo8  to  the  keeping  of  liquors,  as  well  as  destructive  to  the 
casks.  A  constant  temperate  air  digests  and  Softens  fmak 
liquors,  so  that  they  taste  quite  smooth  on  the  palate;  but  in 
cellars  which  are  unequsl,  by  letting  in  heats  and  eolda,  the 
liquor  is  subject  to  grow  stale  and  sharp. 

It  has  be^n  observed,  that  in  proportion  to  the  quantvty  of 
liquor  which  is  enclosed  in  one  cask,  so  will  it  be  to  a  longer  or 
ihorter  time  in  ripening.  A  vessel,  oontatning  two  hogsheada 
4>f  beer,  will  require  twice  as  much  time  to  perfect  itself  $$ 
one  of  a  hogshead ;  and  it  is  found  by  experience,  that  no 
vessel  should  be  used  for  strong  beer,  which  is  intended  to  be 
kept>  less  than  a  hogshead,  as  one  of  that  quantity,  if  it  be  fit 
to  draw  it  in  a  year,  has  body  enough  to  support  it  two,  three 
or  four  yean,  if  it  have  strength  of  malt  and  hops  in  it. 

One  great  piece  of  economy  is  the  good  management  of 
small  beer ;  for  if  that  be  not  good,  the  drinkers  of  it  will  be 
feeble  in  summer-time,  incapable  of  strong  work,  and  will  be 
very  subject  to  dtstempevs.  Besides,  when  the  beer  is  not 
good,  a  great  deal  will  be  thrown  away.  The  use  of  drink, 
as  well  as  meat,  is  to  noqrish  the  body ;  and  the  more  labomr 
there  is  upon  any  one,  the  more  substantial  should  be  the 
diet.    In  harvest4ime;|  the  ill  effects  of  bad  beer  among  the 


vorkt&ea  aK  viuble ;  and  In  great  funiliea,  wbere  tiut  aitieM 
haa  not  been  attended  to,  tbe  qiothecuiei  biUa  have  araoanted 
to  twice  08  nrach  ai  the  malt  would  have  come  to,  that  would 
have  kept  the  aertanta  in  atnngth  and  good  health.  Beudes, 
good  wholeaome  drink  is  seldom  thrown  away  hj  servanta. 
and  thua  the  sparing  of  a  little  malt  ends  in  the  low  of  the 
master.  Where  there  is  a  good  cellaring,  therefore,  it  is  ad- 
viaable  to  I»ew  a  stock  of  imall  beer  in  March  or  October,  or 
in  both  months,  to  keep  in  hogsheads,  if  ponible.  The  beer 
brewed  in  March  should  not  be  tapped  till  October,  nor  that 
brewed  in  October,  till  the  March  folbwing ;  having  this  r^ard 
to  the  quantity,  that  a  fiunilj,  of  the  same  number  of  working 
persona,  will  drink  a  third  more  in  summer  than  in  winter. 

One  thing  more  ia  to  be  mentioned,  respecting  the  preser- 
vation of  strong  beer,  and  that  is,  when  once  the  veascl  is 
broached,  r^ard  ou^t  to  be  had  to  the  time  in  which  it  will 
be  expended ;  for,  if  there  happen  to  be  a  quick  draught  fi>r  il^ 
dien  it  will  last  good  to  the  very  bottom  ;  but  if  there  be  likely 
•to  be  but  a  slow  draught,  then  do  not  draw  off  quite  half  be- 
.  fiire  you  bottle  it,  otherwise  your  beer  will  grow  flat,  dead,  or 
ooor.     This  is  observed  very  mnch  among  the  curious. 

We  shall  now  mention  two  or  three  particulars  relative 
to  malt,  which  may  help  those  who  are  unacquainted  with 
In«wing.  In  the  first  place,  tbe  general  distinction  between 
one  malt  and  another  is,  only  that  tbe  one  is  high  and  the  otheir 
low  dried.  That  whicfa  we  call  high  dried  will,  when  brewed, 
produce  a  liquor  of  a  deep  brown  colour ;  and  the  other,  which 
ia  the  low  dried,  will  produce  a  liquor  of  a  pale  colour.  The 
first  is  dried  in  sndi  a  manner  as  may  be  said  rather  to  be 
scorched  than  dried,  and  is  far  less  wholesome  than  tbe  pale 
malt.  It  has  also  been  experienced  that  brown  malt,  akhougfa 
it  be  well  brewed,  will  sooner  turn  sharp  than  the  pale  malt, 
if  that  be  fidrly  brewed. 

A  gentleman  of  good  experience  in  the  brewery  says,  that 
Ihe  brown  malt  nudces  tbe  best  drink  when  it  is  Ixewed  with  a 
coarse  river  water,  such  ai  that  of  tlw  Thames  about  Lmdon : 
and  that  likewise  being  brewed  with  audi  water,  it  makes  very 
food  ale ;  but  that  it  will  not  keep  above  six  months  without 
taming  stale,  and  a  little  sharp,  even  though  he  allows  four- 
teen bushels  to  ibe  hogdiead.    He  adds,  that  be  has  tried  thf 


. .    HOME  BRSWSRT*  Ml 

liigh-dried  malt  to  briew  beer  mth  for  keeping,  and  ^hopped  it 
accordingly ;  and  yet  he  could  never  brew  it  so  aa  to  drink  soft 
and  melloWy  like  that  brewed  with  pale  malt  There  is  an  acid 
quality  in  the  high-dried  malt,  which  occasions  that  distemper 
commonly  called  the  heart-burn  in  those  that  drink  of  the  ale 
or  beer  made  of  it. 

What  we  have  here  said  of  malt  is  meant  thai  made  of  bar* 
ley ;  for  wheat-malt»  pea^malt,  or  ithose  mixed  with  barley«malt, 
though  they  produce  a  high-coloured  Hqucnr,  will  keep  many 
years,  and  drink  soft  and  smooth,  yet  they  have  the  mum 
flavour. 

Some  people,  who  brew  with  highnlried  barley-malt,  put  a 
bag,  containing  about  three  pints  of  wheat,  into  every  hogs* 
head  of  liquor,  and  that  has  fined  it,  and  made  it  drink  mel- 
low. Others  have  put  about  three  pints  of  wheat*malt  into  a 
hogshead,  which  has  produced' the  same  effect  But  all  malt- 
liquors,  however  well  they  may  be  brewed,  may  be  now  dnd 
then  subject  to  ferment  in  the  cask,  and  consequently  turn  tiiick 
and  sour.  The  best  way  to  help  this,  and  bring  the  liquor  to 
itself,  is  to  open  the  bung  of  the  cask  for  two  or  three  dayai 
and,  if  that  does  not  stop  the  fermentation,  then  put  in  two 
or  three  pounds  of  oyster-shells,  washed,  burned,  and  theo 
beaten  to  fine  powder.  Stir  it  a  little,  and  it  wHl  presently 
aettle  the  liquor,  make  it  fine,  and  take  off  the  shaip  taste. 
As  soon  as  that  is  done,  draw  it  off  into  another  vessel,  and 
put  a  small  bag  of  wheat  or  wheat*malt  into  it,  ais  before 
directed,  or  in  proportion  to  the  size  of  the  vessel*  Sometimes 
such  fermentations  will  happen  in  liquor  bj^ehange  of  weather; 
if  it  be  in  a  bad.cellar,  and  will,  in  a  few  months^  fall  fine  of 
itself,  and  grow  mellow.    . 

High-dried  malt  should  not  be  used  in  brewing  till  it  haa 
beoi  ground  ten  days^  or  a  fortti^ht,  as  it  then  yields  much 
stronger  drink  than  the  same  quantity  of  malt  just  ground ;  but 
if  you  design  to  keep  malt  ground  some  time  before  you  use  it, 
you  must  take  care  to  keep  it  very  dry,  and  the  air  at  that  time 
must  also  be  dry.  As  for  pale  malt,  which  has  not  partaken  so 
much  of  the  fire,  it  must  not  remain  ground  above  a  week  befoTD 
you  use  it.  The  best  mode  of  using  malt,  is  to  tflike  equal 
portions  of  brown,  amber,  and  psle. 


51.S  IXOMKSTtC  COOKMIT. 

As  for  hops,  t&e  newest  are  modi  the  best,  thongik  Aey 
iriU  remain  verjp  good  two  years :  but  ailer  that  they  begin  to 
decay  and  lose  their  flaTour,  mil^e  9?^^  quantities  are  kept 
together,  in  trhieh  case  they  wiU  keep  much  longer  good  than 
kk  small  <^iAitie8«  These,  for  their  better  presenratioTi> 
should  be  kept  in  a  very  dry  place ;  though  the  dealers  m 
thefti  rather  choose  such  places  as  are  moderately  between  moist 
mfitd  dry,  that  they  may  not  lose  uxy  of  their  weight.  Notice 
must  here  be  tak^  of  a  method  which  has  been  used  to  etal^ 
deoeyed  kops^  and  to  make  them  recover  their  bitterness ;  an4 
this  is,  to  unbag  them,  and  sprinkle  them  with  aloes  and  water> 
which,  when  it  ha^  proved  a  bad  hop  year,  has  spoiled  great 
quantities  of  malt  liquor  about  London:  for  even  where  the 
Water,  the  malt,  the  brewer,  and  the  cellars,  are  eadi  good,  a 
bad  hop  will  spail  alU  Hence  it  is  evident,  that  every  one  of 
these  parttcoiars  should  be  well  ehosen  before  the  brewing  ik 
llet  aboiit>  or  else  you  must  expect  but  a  bad  account  of  your 
laboiur*  So  likewise  the  yeast  or  barm  which  you  work  yout' 
Kqvor  wkh  must  be  well  coBoidered,  or  a  good  brewing  may 
be  spoiled  by  that  alone. 

It  is  a  practice,  in  some  places  remote  from  town,  to  dip* 
«FhEakt  into  yeaet>  then  beat  it  well,  and  so  hang  up  the  wfaidu 
widr  tiw  yeast  in  them  to  dry :  and  if  there  be  no  brewing  till 
two  months  afterwards,  the  beating  and  stirring  one  of  these 
hew  whisks  in  new  wwt  will  raise  a  working  or  a  fermentation 
in<  it*  It  is  a  nde>  that  all  liquor  should  be  worked  well  in  tiie 
ton,  or  keel,  b^nre  it  be  put  into  the  vessel,  otherwise  it 
will  not  easiiy  gr&^  fine.  Some  follow  the  rule  of  beating 
down  the  yeast  pretty  ofben  whIQe  it  is  in  the  tun,  and  keep  it 
there  working  for  two  or  three  days,  observing  to  pot  it  inta 
the  tetoel  just  when  the  yeast  begins  to  &11.  This  liquor  is 
commonly  very  fine,  whereas  that  which  is  put  into  the  vesad 
i|tt]ckly  after  it  is  brew!ed>  will  not  be  fine  in  many  months. 

However  careful  you  may  have  been  in  attending  to  ail  the 
preoeding  partieulars,  yet,  if  the  caeks  be  not  in  good  order, 
still  the  brewing  may  foe  spoiled.  New  casks  are  a|jt  to  give 
liquor  a  bad  taste,  if  they  be  net  well  scalded  and  seasoned 
several  ditys  siiopesaively  befose  (hey  are  used.  As-  to  old 
casks,  if  they  stand  any  time  out  of  use,  they  are  apt  to  grow 
musty* 


There  now  renoams  little  more  to  be  said  conceniing  the 
management  of  malt  liquor,  hut  that  of  bottling  it.  The 
bottles  must  first  be  well  cleaned  and  dried ;  for  wet  bottles 
will  make  the  liquor  turn  mouldy,  or  mothery,  as  they  call  it ; 
and  by  wet  bottles  a  great  deal  of  good  beer  has  been  spoiled* 
Though  the  bottles  be  dean  and  dry»  yet  if  the  corks  be  not 
new  and  soimd,  the  liquor  will  be  still  liable  to  be  damaged ; 
lor,  if  the  air  can  get  into  the  bottles,  the  liquor  will  grow 
Satf  and  will  never  rise.  Many  who  flattered  themselves  that 
they  knew  how  to  be  saving,  by  using  old  corks  on  this  occa* 
sion,  have  spoiled  as  much  liquor  as  stood  them  in  four  or 
five  pounds^  only  fof  want  of  laying  out  three  or  four  shillings. 
If  bottles  are  oorked  as  they  should  be,  it  will  be  difficult  to 
pull  out  the  cork  without  a  screw :  and  to  be  sure  to  draw  the 
4»rk  without  breaking,  the  screw  ought  to  go  through  the  cork. 
And  then  the  air  must  necessarily  find  a  passage  where  the 
ficrew  has  passed,  and  therefore  the  cork  most  be  good  for 
nothing.  If  a  cork  has  once  been  in  a  bottle,  though  it  has 
j[iot  been  drawn  with  a  screw,  yet  that  cork  will  turn  musty 
as  soon  as  it  be  exposed  to  the  air,  and  will  communicate  its  ill 
»£avour  to  the  bottle  in  which  it  is  next  put,  and  spoil  the  liquor 
that  way.  In  the  choice  of  corks,  take  those  that  are  soft  and 
4Jear  from  specks. 

You  may  also  observe,  in  the  bottling  of  liquor,  that  the 
top  and  middle  of  the  hogshead  are  the  strongest^  and  will 
jM>oner  rise  in  the  bottles  than  the  bottom.  When  once  yoa 
begin  to  bottl^  a  vessel  of  any  liquor,  be  sure  not  to  leave  it 
till  ail  is  completed,  otherwise  it  will  have  different  tastes. 

If  ^'ou  find  that  a  vessel  of  liquor  begins  to  grow  flat  whikt 
it  is  in  common  draught,  bottle  it,  and  into  every  battle  put  a 
piece  of  loaf-sugar,  about  the  size  of  a  walnut,  which  wiU 
make  it  rise  and  come  to  itself;  and  to  forward  its  ripening, 
you  may  set  some  bottles  in  bay  in  a  warm  place ;  but  straw 
will  not  assist  its  ripening. 

Where  there  are  not  good  cellars,  holes  have  been  sunk  in 
the  ground,  and  large  oil  jars  put  into  them,  and  the  eactih 
•filled  dose  about  the  sides.  One  of  these  jars  may  hold  about 
a  dozen  quart  bottles;  and  will  keep  the  liquor  very  weU; 
but  the  tops  of  die  jars  must  be  kept  closely  covered  up.  In 
aeinter*time,  when  the  weatlier  is  £ros(y,  shut  ap  all  the  ligbti 

19  Sv 


or  windows  of  your  cellars,  and  cover  them  clow  with  hone' 
dung,  or  horse-litter ;  bat  it  is  much  better  to  have  no  lights 
oi  windows  at  all  to  any  cellar,  for  the  reasons  before  given. 

Should  you  have  an  opportunity  of  brewing  a  good  stock 
of  small  beer  in  March  and  October,  some  of  it  may  be  battled 
at  six  months'  end,  putting  into  every  bottle  a  lump  of  loaf- 
sugar.  This  will  be  a  very  refreshing  drink  in  the  summer. 
Or,  if  you  happen  to  brew  in  summer,  and  are  desirous  of 
brisk  small  beer,  as  soon  as  it  has  done  working,  bottle  it  m 
alxn'e  directed. 

Excellent  Spruce  Bear. 
The  salubrity  of  spruce  beer  it  universally  acknowledged ; 
and  notwithstanding  its  invincible  terebinthine  flavour,  fonm 
so  refreshing  and  lively  a  summer  drink,  that  it  begiot  to  be 
greatly  used  in  this  country.  It  is,  in  fact,  a  very  powerful 
antiscorbutic:  and  as  it  by  no  means  offends  the  weakest  sto> 
mach,  whatever  may  be  its  effect  on  the  palate,  it  is  highly 
entitled  to  our  attention.  Fn  situations  where  the  green  ahoots 
and  tops,  &e.  are  easily  obtained,  it  may  be  brewed  immedi" 
ately  from  them,  instead  of  from  the  extract ;  which,  how- 
ever, ia  by  no  means  to  be  commonly  effected  in  England, 
where  these  trees  are  not  remarkably  numerous,  and  are  always 
private  property.  The  regular  method  of  brewing  epruce  beer, 
a>  it  ia  at  pre«ent  in  the  best  manner  prepared,  and  so  highly 
admiied  for  its  excesatve  briskness,  is  as  follows: — Poor  eight 
gallons  of  cold  water  into  a  barrel ;  and  thei^  boiling  eight 
gallons  more,  put  that  in  also;  to  this,  add  twelve  pounds  of 
molaaBes,  with  about  half  a  pound  of  the  etsence  of  spruce ; 
and,  on  ita  getting  a  little  cooler,  half  a  pint  of  good  ale 
yeast.  The  whole  being  well  stirred,  or  rolled  in  the  barrd, 
must  be  left  with  the  bung  out  for  two  or  three  days ;  afta 
which,  the  liquor  may  be  immediately  bottled,  well  corked  up, 
and  packed  in  saw-dust  or  sand,  when  it  will  be  ripe  and  fit 
Ibr  drink  in  a  fortnight.  If  spruce  beer  be  made  immediately 
ftma  the  branches  or  conea,  they  are  required  to  be  boiled  foe 
two  hours  ;  after  which,  the  liquor  is  to  be  (trained  into  a  bar- 
id,  the  molasses  and  yeast  are  to  be  added  to  the  extract,  and 
to  be  in  all  respects  treated  after  the  same  man  ner.  Spruce 
beer  is  best  bottled  in  stone ;  and,  iaxa  its  volatile  nature,  the 


.  HOME  BRBWBRT.  616 

irhole  tboald  be  immediately  drank  wheii  the  bottle  is  once 
cpened. 

Treacle  Beer. 

'  Boil  two  quarts  of  water,  put  into  it  one  pound  of  treacle 
or  molasses,  stir  them  together  till  they  are  well  mixed  ;  then 
put  six  or  eight  quarts  of  cold  water  to  it»  and  about  a  tea- 
cup ftill  of  yeast  or  barm ;  put  it  up  in  a  clean  cask  or  steen, 
and  cover  it  over  with  a  coarse  cloth,  two  or  three  times  double. 
It  will  be  fit  to  drink  in  two  or  three  days. 

The  second  and  third  time  of  makings  the  bottom  of  the 
first  beer  will  do  instead  of  yeast. 

If  a  large  quantity  is  made,  or  intended  for  keeping,  put 
in  a  handful  of  hops,  and  another  of  malt,  for  it  to  feed  on ; 
and,  when  done  working,  stop  it  up  close. 

The  above  is  the  best  and  cheapest  way  of  making  treacle 
beer,  thongh  some  people  add  raisins,  bran,  wormwood,  spices, 
and  such  fruit,  &c.  as  are  in  season ;  but  that  is  just  as  may  be 
fancied. 

Indeed  many  pleasant,  cheap,  and  wholesome  drinks  may 
be  made  from  fruits,  &c.  if  they  are  bruised  and  boiled  in  water 
before  the  treacle  is  added. 


Dr,  StanehauH'i  manner  0/  making-  Treaeie 

The  following  easy  method  of  making  a  very  salutary 
beverage  to  be  used  at  meals,  far  superior  to  what  is  com- 
pionly  sold  as  table  beer,  was  nearly  half  a  century  ago  pub- 
lished by  the  celebrated  Dr.  Stonehouse  of  Northampton,  so 
respectfully  noticed  in  Hervey's  Meditations. — <'To  eight 
quarts  of  boiling  water,  put  one  pound  of  treacle,  a  quarter  of 
an  ounce  of  ginger,  and  two  bay  leaves.  Let  the  whole  boil 
for  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  then  cool  and  work  it  with  yeast,  the 
same  as  other  beer.  A  little  yeast  spread  on  a  piece  of  toasted 
bread,  and  put  into  the  liquid  before  it  is  quite  cold,  will  soon 
excite  a  fermentation ;  and,  when  it  has  ceased  working,  it  may 
be  bottled  or  barreled,  according  to  the  quantity  made,  for 
immedpte  use.  If  wanted  to  keep,  a  very  small  bit  of  gentian 
root,  with  or  without  a  little  lemon  or  orange  peel,  may  be 
boiled  in  the  liquid ;  which  will  not  only  render  it  better  for 
that  purpose,  but  give  it  a  taste  more  resembling  beer  brewed 
witb  malt  and  hops. 


518  ]>OMESTIC  COOKBRT* 

English  P&rt. 

Take  eight  gallons  of  good  port  ivine,  and  put  it  into  a  dean 
sixty-gallon  cask,  first  ftiraed  with  a  match:  add  to  it  forty 
gallons,  of  good  cider,  and  then  fill  the  hogshead  with  French 
brandy.  The  juice  of  elderberries  and  sloes  will  give  it  the  pro- 
per degree  of  roughness,  and  cochineal  will  communicate  to  it  a 
fine  brilliant  colour. 

N.  B.  Instead  of  cider,  use  turnip  juice  or  nusiii  cider  ; 
and  instead  of  French  brandy,  English  brandy. 

English  Mountain, 

First  pick  out  the  larger  stalks  of  your  Malaga  raisins,  then 
chop  the  raisins  small,  and  put  five  pounds  to  every  gallon  of 
cold  spring  water. — ^Let  them  remain  a  fortnight  or  more,  then 
squeeze  out  the  liquor,  and  put  it  into  a  clean  cask,  having 
been  previously  fumigated  with  a  match.  Let  it  remain  un- 
stopped till  the  hissing  or  fermentation  has  ceased ;  then  bung 
it  up,,  and  when  fine,  bottle  it  off*. 

English  Sack> 
To  every  quart  of  water  put  a  sprig  of  rue,  and  to  every 
gallon  a  handful  of  fiennel  roots ;  boil  these  half  an  hour,  then 
strain  it  out,  and  to  every  gallon  of  this  liquor  put  three 
pounds  of  honey :  after  which,  boil  it  two  hours,  skimming 
it  well,  and  when  cold  pour.it  off,  and  tun  it  into  a  clean  cask. 
K^ep  it  a  year  in  the  cask,  and  then  bottle  it  off. 

Admirable  Imitation  of  the  Rich  Cyprus  Wine. 

To  four  gallons  of  water  put  one  gallon  of  the  juice  of 
white  elder-berries,  expressed  gently,  and  passed  through  a 
sieve,  without  bruising  the  kernels  of  the  berries ;  then  add 
twenty  pounds  of  loaf-sugar,  and  three  quarters  of  an  ouuce  of 
cloves.  Let  the  whole4)oil  together  half  an  hour,  taking  off 
the  scum  as  it  rises ;  pour  it  into  a  tub  or  pan  to  cool,  and  fimnoit 
it  with  ale  yeast  cm  a  toast  for  three  days.  Afterward,  pat  it 
into  a  cask  that  will  just  hold  the  quantity,  with  a  pound  of 
4iplit  and  stoned  raisins  of  the  sun ,-  and,  whra  the  fermentation 
ceases,  add  five  pints  of  genuine  French  brandy.  It  must  gene* 
rally  remain  in  the  cask  till  about  the  b^inning  of  January, 


tt 


MM 


BRITISH  WINfis/cORDIALS,  &€.  519 

before  it  is  fine  enoogh  to  be  drawn  off,  when  it  will  so  resem- 
ble the  rich  wine  brought  from  Cyprus^  both  in  flavour  and 
colour,  as  to  deceive  even  the  best  judges. 

Rainn  Wine. 

Take  the  best  Malaga  raisins,  pick  off  the  large  stalks,  and 
have  your  water  ready  boiled.  When  cold,  measure  as  many 
gallons  as  you  design  to  make,  put  it  into  a  large  tub,  that 
you  may  have  room  to  stir  it.  To  every  gallon  of  water  put 
six  pounds  of  raisins,  and  let  it  stand  fourteen  days,  stirring  it 
twice  a  day.  When  you-  have  strained  it  off,  put .  it  into  your 
cask,  reserving  a  sufficient  quantity  to  keep  it  filled  as  the  liquor 
works  over,  which  it  will  often  do  for  two  months  or  more.  It 
must  not  be  flosed  till  the  hissing  or  fermentation  has  ceased. 

Currant  Wine, 

Take  four  gallons  of  currants,  not  too  ripe,  and  strip  them 
into  an  earthen  steen  with  a  cover  to  it ;  then  take  two  gallons 
and  a  half  of  water,  and  ^ve  pounds  and  a  half  of  sugar ; 
boil  the  sugar  and  water  together,  and  skim  it  well ;  then 
pour  it  boiling  on  the  currants,  and  let  it  stand  forty-eight 
hours ;  afterwards  strain  it  through  a  flannel  bag  into  the  vessel 
again^  and  let  it  stand  a  fortnight  to  settle :  then  bottle  it  off. 

Orange  Wine, 

9 

Take  thirty  pounds  of  new  Malaga  raisins,  pick  them  dean 
from  the  stalks,  and  chop  them  small.  Provide  yourself  twenty 
large  Seville  oranges,  ten  of  which  you  must  pare  as  thin  as 
for  preserving ;  then  boil  about  eight  gallons  of  soft  water  till 
a  tliird  part  be  consumed,  and  after  letting  it  cool  a  little,  pour 
five  gallons  of  it  upon  your  raisins  and  orange-peel ;  then  stir 
it  well,  and  cover  it  up.  When  co)d,  let  it  stand  five  days, 
itirring  it  once  or  twice  a  day.  Run  this  liquor  through  a  hair 
sieve,  and  with  a  wooden  spoon  press  the  pulp  as  dry  as  you 
can ;  then  put  it  into  a  clean  cask,  adding  the  rinds  of  the  other 
ten  oranges,  pared  as  thin  as  the  first.  The  day  before  you 
tun  it,  make  a  syrup  of  the  juice  of  the  whole  twenty  oranges 
with  a  pound  of  white  sugar.  Stir  them  well  together,  and 
dose  it  up :  let  it  stand  two  months  to  fine,  then  bottle  it  off. 
It  will  keep  three  years,  and  improve  in  keeping. 


i 


«aO  DOM18T1C  QOOKllRYt 

Lenum  WiHe, 

Take  six  large  leiii0Q«,  pttre  off  the  riDdtf,  cut  Uiem  gnA 
squeeze  out  the  juice^  i^  i^hioh  9teep  the  rinds,  adding  to  it  a 
quart  of  brandy,  and  letting  it  stand  in  an  earthen j)ot  close  stop- 
ped for  three  days ;  then-  squeeze  six  lemons  more,  and  to  the 
Juice  put  two  quarts  ^of  spring  water,  and  as  much  sugar  aft 
will  sweeten  the  whole;  then  boil  the  water^  sagar,  and 
lemons  together^  and  let  it  ^jtand  tiU  ecdd ;  to  whidi  add  a  qnatt 
of  white  wine  and  the  first  mentioned  lemons  and  brandy : 
mix  them  together,  and  str^  the  whole  throa^  a  linen  hag 
into  your  vessel;  ^en  let  it  stand  three  months,  and  bottle  it 
off;  taking  care  to  cork  and  wire  your  bottles  very  well.  Ke«p  it 
in  a  cool  place,  or  in  sand.  It  will  be  fit  to  drink  in  two  moBtha 
time.  f 

Qe00fiksrr^  Wine. 

To  eveiy  four  pounds  of  gooseberries  lake  a  poiipd  fgui  a 
quarter  of  sugar,  and  a  quart  of  spring  water ;  bruiife  the  her« 
ries,  9^4  let  Ijiem  li^  twenty-four  hotir«  in  the  water,  stirriii^ 
the^i  frequency ;  then  press  out  th^  liquor,  and  add  vov^  sugar 
to  It ;  afterwards  put  it  ii^to  a  dean  cask ;  md  when  the  fer* 
inentation  has  ceased  close  it  up,  and  let  it  stand  a  month;  thm 
raek  it  off  into  another  cask,  and  l^t  it  9t^d  five  or  six  wedu 
longer.  Bottle  it  off,  putting  a  lump  of  sugar  into  every 
bottle.  * 

Gooseberry  wii^e  thus  made,  and  carefg^y  preserved  two 
or  three  years,  becomes  little  inferior  to  muscadel,  or  other 
sweet  and  delicate  Italian  wines. 

Cowslip  Wine, 

Boil  twelve  pounds  of  loaf««si^gar,  with  the  juice  ^  six 
Seville  oranges,  and  the  whites  of  ttiree  or  fouCl|ggs  well  beaten, 
in  six  gallons  of  witter,  for  half  an  hour,  c^r^fuUy  si^uaaBiillg 
it  all  the  time.  In  the  mean  whUe,  put  a  peak  of  th?  finest 
and  freshest  picked  oowslip  flowers  intoati^bf  with  the  rinda 
of  two  of  the  oranges,  and  pouung  on  th6n^  the  boiling  syru(% 
stir  the  whole  up,,  and  leave  it  well  covered  to  infuse.  On  ita 
getting  nearly  pool,  spread  a  thin  toast  o£  bread  all  over  with 
good  yeast,  and.  put  it  into  th^  ml>>  tp  excite  a  feriQ«n|alioQ* 
After  it  has  worked  two  or  three  days,  strain  It-off;  hairiogifiv^ 


t 


!► 


> 


> 


BRITlftH  WINBS,  CORDIALS,  &C.  621 

•queezed  the  cowaUps  in  a  coarse  cloth,  to  press  out  all  the 
jnjce.  Having  tunned  it  up,  keep  the  bung  loose  for  a  few 
days ;  and  on  finding  the  wine  has  ceased  to  work,  which  is 
always  known  by  its  ceasing  to  hiss,  drive  the  bung  tight ;  let 
the  liquor  remain  undisturbed  for  about  three  months ;  and  then 
bottle  it  off,  either  for  present  or  future  use.  If,  on  tunning 
the  wine,  about  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  brandy  be  put  in  for  every 
gallon,  with  a  quarter,  of  a  gill  of.83rrup  of  citrons,  •  lemons, 
or  clove  gilliflowers,  it  will  make  a  fine  addition  to  its  strength 
and  flavour. 

EUer  Wine. 

To  five  gallons  of  water  put  five  quarts  of  ripe  elderberries^ 
picked  from  the  stalks;  let  them  boil  a  quarter  of  an  hour* 
then  strain  the  liquor  through  a  sieve,  and  put  it  into  your  pan 
again,  with  fourteen  pounds  of  raw  sugar ;  let  it  boil  half  an 
hour,  and  then  put  into  your  tub  three  pounds  of  raisins,  and 
pour  the  boiling  liquor  upon  them^  When  it  is  milk-warmj 
put  into  it  a  little  yeast,  and  let  it  work  three  days ; .  then  tun 
it,  and  put  five  gills  of  brandy  into  the  cask,  and  bottle  it  at 
Christmas. 

£2&r  Wine  another  Way.  • 

Take  spring  water,  and  1^  it  boil  half  an  hour ;  then  mea« 
sure  five  gallons,  and  kl  it  stand  to  cool.  Have  in  readiness 
twenty  pounds  of  raisins. of  the  sun,  well  picked  and  rubbed 
^  a  cloth ;  and  chop  them,  but  not  too  small ;  then  put  them 
into  the  water,  when  it  is  quite  cold,  and  let  them  stand  nine 
days,  stirring  them  three  or  four  times  a  day.  Procure  six 
pints  of  elderberries  fully  ripe,  which  must  be  infused  in  boil- 
ing wate^-  or  baked  three  hours  ia  an  oven  ;  then  strain  out  the 
raisins:  and  when  the  elder  liquor  is  cold,  mix  that  with  it, 
(but  the  best  way  is  to  boil  up  the  juice: to  a  syrup,)  and  add 
four  spoonfub  of  good  ale  yeast.  Stir  it  well  together,  and 
dien  tun  it  into  a  clean  cask,  and  let  it  stand  in  a  warm  place  tc 
ferment;  then  keep  it  for  five  or  six  months,  and  bottle  it  oS. 

r         •   Damson  Wine. 

Gather  tbf^; fruit  dry,  weigh  them,  and  bruise  them  witl 
your  hands :  i»ut  them  into  an  earthen  pot  with  a  fauset,  havini 
i9 


■ 


/ 


AM  t>6M B^TIC  CObKBRT. 

ft  wad  of  tttr«w  hefei*e  the  fiiuset ;  ahd  to  every  dght  poatids  of 
frait  ftdd  oAe  gnUon  of  water.  Beil  the  water;  &en  pour  it  upon 
your  fruit  flealdian  hot^  and  let  it  stand  two  days ;  afterwards 
draw  it  off*,  and  pat  k  into  a  dean  cask,  and  to  erery  gallon  of 
liquor  add  two  poiuida  and  a  half  of  sugar :  let  the  cask  be  fall, 
iad  the  lionger  it  stands  the  better.  It  wtll  keep  very  well  a 
year  in  the  cask ;  afterwards  battle  it  off.  The  small  damson  is 
the  best.  If  you  pot  a  small  lump  of  loaf-sugar  into  every 
bottle  it  will  be  mueh  improved. 

I 

Excellent  Red  or  Black  Cherry  Wine. 
Bruise  twenty-four  pounds  of  the  finest  ripe  cherries^ 
eithe)r1f<^  or  black,  first  faking  away  the  ^Ifcs  with  mj  Totten 
ortMripe  fruit;  and  after  pressing  out  th^  juiot,  and  eveii 
breaking  the  stbnes.and  crushte^  the  kernels,  let  the  whole  fer^ 
fnent  together  for  twelve  hours.  Then  run  flie  liquid  through 
k  large  flannel  jdly  bag  into  a  vessel  placed  beneath,  contain- 
ing a  pound  of  fine  powdered  loaf-sugar ;  forcing  also,  with  a 
ladle  or  the  bands,  as  much  as  possible  of  the  juice  Mih  the 
entire  mass  of  mashed  fruit  and  kernels.  When  ttte  sttgar-tt 
thoroughly  dissolved,  put  the  liquor  up  in  bottles,  fiHing  each 
above  half  up  the  neck,  or  within  nearly  an  inch  of  the  <xyrk. 
This  quiintity  of  good  cherries  will  generally  make  six  quart 
bottles  of  A  most  pleasant  and  sitobrious  wine'  without  dr^ ; 
of  a  fine  deep  red  cobur,  more  or  Ifts  bright,  according  id 
the  sort  of  cherries  used;  and  will  keep  well  conmderably 
longer  than  a  year,  if  deposited  in  a  cool  cellar.  Those  who 
are  fond  of  experiments,  may  fi&vour  with  ripe  godaebttrry 
juice  or  a  few  raspberries,  or  sharpen  with  tiie  juice  of  cur- 
rants, &C.  But  the  cherries  alone,  particularly  if  the  stones 
ars  broken  so  as  to  obtain  flavour  from  die  kernels,  will  produce 
A  wine  highly  agreeaMe  to  almost  every  palate,  ^is  wine  will 
be  fit  to  drink  ih'  two  or  three  months.  The  aauHl  proportion 
4sf  sugar  requisite  renders  this  one  of  die  cheapest,  as  wdl  as 
«ne  of  the  best,  of  all  our  British  wines.  It  may,  indeed, 
with  iittle'or  no  injury  to  the  colour,  be  made  widi  good  mmst 
sugar ;  and,  if  even  barreled,  instead  of  bottled,  will  draw 
dear  and  well  to  the  last  When  the  juice  is  first  pressed 
out,  in  making  cherry  wine,  the  mass  should  be  wrung  as  dry 
aH  posaible  in  a^napkin,  beibre  the  stones  axe  att^iipled  i»  be 


\ 


BRITISH  WINB8»  CORPIAI^*  &C.  ^6^ 

i)roken,  and  die  kernels  bruised;  whicfay  however^  being ^iftar^ 
wards  done,  either  in  a  press  between  boardsj  or- with  a  mailfly 
&c.  tlie  whole  is  to  be  returned  into  the  juice,  that  it  may  f^^ 
xaent  tog;ether.  This  rule  is  to  be  observed  by  makiiig  all  oth^ 
wines  firom  stoned  fruits,  where  the  flavour  of  the  kernel% 
either  in  the  whole  or  part,  is  any  way  desirable. 

Rasfbcrry  Wine. 

Pound  your  fruit,  and  strain  it  through  a  c^pth :  then,  boil 
as  much  water  as  there  is  juice,  and  when  cold><^ur  it  on  th^ 
dry  strained  fruit,  letting  it  stand  five  bqurs ;  after  which  strain 
it  again,  and  mix  it  with  the  juice.  To  every  gallon  of  this 
liquor  add  two  pounds  and  a  half  of  sugar  :  let  it  stand  in  an 
earthen  vessel  close  covered  for  a  week ;  then  tun  it  into  a  clean 
cask,  and  let  it  stand  veil  bunged  up,  a  month,  till  it  is  fine. 
Afterwards  bottle  it  off. 

» 

Quince  Wine. 

Take  your  quinces  when  they  are  fully  ripe,  and  wipe  off 
the  fur  very  dean ;  then  ^ke  out  the  ceres,  bruise  the  fruit  as 
you  do  apples  for  cider,  and  press  out  the  juice ;  to  every  gal- 
lon of  which  add  two  poui^dB  and  a  half  of  loaf-sugar,  stir- 
ring it  together  till  the  sugar  is  dissolved :  afterwards  put  it 
into  your  cask,  and  when  the  fermentation  is  over,  hung  it  up 
well.  Let  it  stand  till  ^rcb  before  you  bottle  it*  This  wine 
ynW.  improve  by  being  kej^t  two  or  three  years. 

Apricot  Wine. 

Take  eight  pounds  gf  ripe  apricots,  sUce  them  into  two 
gallons  of  spring  water,  and  add  five  pounds  of  powdered  loaf- 
sugar.  Boil  them  together  for  tome  time,  without  taking  off 
the  scum ;  then  skim  it  off,  as  it  continues  to^  rise,  and  put  it 
jn  a  dean  sieve  over  a  pan,  to  save  the  liquor  which'  comes 
from  it.  When  the  boiling  liquor  is  as  clear  as  it  can  be  mad^ 
f^om  the  dross  pf  the  sugar,  pouf  it  with  the  draining^  of  the 
sieve  hot  on  the  kernels  of  the  apricots  ;  which  must  be  put, 
with  the  stones,  into  a  pan  where  it  is  intended  the  wine 
should  be  left  to  cool.  Stir  it  well  together,  cover  it  dosely 
up  till  it  grows  quite  cool,  and  then  work  it  with  a  toast  and 
yeait.    In  two  or  three  days,  when  it  is  found  to  be  settled. 


.-<! 


-6ft4  bOMBSTIC  COOKERY. 

"fine  it  oflT  into  a  cask^  leai^ing  it  to  ferment  After  it  has  done 
workings  pour  in  a  bottle  of  old  hock,  mountain,'  or  sherry, 
and  stop  it  up  for  six  months ;  then,  if  very  fine,  bottle  it  off, 
and  keep  it  twelve  months.  This  is,  indeed,  a  most  delicious 
wine ;  and,  when  well  managed,  little  inferior  to  the  best  pro* 
ductions  of  the  grape. 

Mulberry  Wine, 

Gather  your  mulberries  when  they  are  ripe,  beat  them  in 
a  mortar,  and  to  every  quart  of  berries  put  a  quart  of  spring 
water.  When  you  put  them  into  the  tub  mix  them  very  well, 
and  let  them  stand  all  night ;  then  strain  them  dirough  a  sieve, 
and  to  every  gallon  of  liquor  put  three  pounds  of  sugar :  when 
your  sugar  is'  dissolved,  *  put  it  into  your  cask,  into  which  (if 
an  eight  gallons  one)  you  must  put  a  gill  of  finings.  Care 
must  be  taken  that  the  cask  be  not  too  full,  nor  bunged  too 
dose!  at  first.  Set  it  in  a  cold  place,  and  when  fine,  bot- 
tle it. 
•  ■  •  •       •  . 

Blackberry  Wine, 

Take  blackberries  when  they  are  fully  ripe,  bruise  them, 
and  put  to  every  quart  of  berries  a  quart  of  water,  mix  them 
well,  and  let  them  stand  all  night ;  then  strain  them  through  a 
sieve,  and  to  every  gallon  of  liquor  add  two  pounds  and  a  half 
of  sugar.  When  your  sugar  is  dissolved  put  it  into  your  cask ; 
to  every  twenty  gallons  of  which  add  a  glil  of  finings,  and  the 
next  day  bung  it  up.    In  two  months  bottle  it  off. 

•  •  •  ♦  . 

Ginger  Wine. 

Take  four  gallons  of  water,  and  ten  pounds  of  sugar ;  boil 
them  half  an  hour,  skimming  it  all  the  time :  when  the  liquor 
is  cold,  squeese'in  the  juice  of  three  lemons:  then  boil  the 
peels,  with  four  ounces  of  white  ginger,  in  two  quarts  of 
water,  one  hour;  when  cold,  put  it^  together  into  the  cask, 
with  a  little  barm,  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  isinglass,  four 
pounds  of  Malaga  raisins,  and  half  a  pint  of  brandy.  In  two  or 
three  days  close  it  up,  let  it  stand  two  months,  and  then  bot- 
tie  it  off. 


Birch  Wine. 

\  The  wine  made  of  the  sap  or  juice  of  the  birch  tree  was 

formerly  considered  as  a  sovereign  remedy  for  nephritic  com- 
plaints ;  andy  though  not  relied  on  by  modern  practice,  is  cer« 
tainly  a  rich  and  salutary  cordial  wine.  It  has,  also,  been  high- 
ly extolled,  and  that  by  medical  men,  for  its  virtues  in  con- 
sumptive and  scorbutic  cases.  The  season  for  obtaining  the 
birch  tree  sap  is  about  the  end  of  February,  when  the  buds 

^  first  swell ;  for,  if  it  be  delayed  till  the  leaves  open,  the  juice, 

which  should  be  thin  and  clear,  becomes  thick  and  discoloured. 
The  method  of  extracting  it  is,  by  boring  holes  in  the  body  of 
the  tree ;  and  putting  in  tubes,  or  fausets,  generally  made  with 
elder  divested  of  the  pith.  If  a  tree  be  large,  it  may  be  tap- 
ped in  four  or  five  places  at  once ;  so  as,  from  a  number  of 
trees,  to  collect  several  gallons  in  a  day.  The  lowest  place 
tapped  should  be  not  more  than  a  foot  from  the  ground  ;  and 
some,  who  think  this  sufficient,  recommend  it  to  be  on  the 
south-west  side  of  the  tree  ;  others,  however,  are  of  opinion 
that  the  sap  drawn  from  the  higher  parts  of  the  trunk,  and 
even  from  some  of  the  larger  branches,  is  generally  of  a  purer 
quality.  The  sap  may  be  kept  running  two  or  three  days, 
without  injury  to  the  trees ;  and,  these  holes  being  then  stop- 
ped with  pegs,  as  much  more  may  be  drawn  from  the  same 
places  next  year.  The  bottles  in  which  the  sap  is  received  as  it 
distils  from  the  trees,  if  there  be  not  sufficient  immediately  to 
commence  making  the  desired  quantity  of  wine,  must  be  cork- 
ed close,  and  even  resined  or  waxed,  to  prevent  its  fermenta- 
tion. The  common  process  in  Sussex,  one  of  the  first  counties 
in  the  united  kingdom  for  producing  excellent  birch  wine,  is 

*  merely  this:-^Boii  the  fresh  sap  as  long  as  any  scum  arises; 

1^  and,  to  every  gallon  of   liquor,   put  two  pounds  of  sugar. 

BotI  it  half  an  hour,  skimming  it  very  clean;  and,  when 
almost  cold,  ferment  it  with  a  little  yeast  spread  on  a  toast, 
and  let  it  remain  five  or  six  days  in  an  open  vessel ;  frequently 
stirring  it,  however,  durfltg  that  time.  Then,  taking  such  a 
cask  as  the  liquor  will  fill,  light  a  large  match  dipped  in  brim- 

r  stone ;  and,  having  pur^I^e  match  into  the  cask,  stop  up  the 

smoke  till  Ae  match  bf^tinguished  :  immediately  on  which, 
with  the  iilmost  posaitle  haste,  pour  in  a  pint  of  mountain, 
•Id  hoek,  or  any  otheri^ine,  the  flavour  of  which  may  be  most 


>M  1M>MB8TIC  COQKBRY. 

desirable,  as  it  will  be  loqiaited  to  that  aboat  to  be  pnt  into 
the  cask.  Rinse  it  well  with  the  wine  most  approved;  .then 
take  it  out,  pour  in  the  birch  wine,  and  stop  the  barrel  close* 
Let  it  so  remain  for  six  months  ;  after  which  time,  if  perfectly 
fine,  it  may  be  bottled  off  for  use.  This  is  simply  the  old 
Sussex  method ;  but  some  put  the  outer  rind  of  a  lemon  or 
Seville  orange  into  the  cask ;  and  others  add  also  a  few  cloves^ 
or  even  substitute  honey  for  sugar.  There  are  many  persons^ 
too,  .who  bottle  birch  wine  as  soon  as  the  yeast  has  settled, 
'without  ever  putting  i^  into  a  barrel.  Jt  is  not  uncommon^ 
however,  such  is  the  strength  of  this  liquor,  to  see  it  burst  the 
stone  bottles  in  which  it  is  usually  kept.  Some  of  the  faculty 
declare  this  to  be  excellent  for  the  stone,  and  to  wash  sore 
.mouths. 

Clary  Wine* 

Boil  nine  pounds  of  loaf-sugar  in  three  gallons  of  waCerj^ 
carefully  scumming  it  all  the  time ;  then  pour  it  hot  on  a  gal* 
Ion  of  the  tops  of  clary  when  in  blossom,  commonly  called 
dary  flowers,  cover  up  the  vessel  so  closely  that  no  steam  can 
escape,  and  let  the  infusion  stand  to  cool.  When  it  becomes 
only  about  the  warmth  of  new  milk,  stir  it  well  together;  and, 
spreading  a  toast  all  over  with  good  ale  yeast,  throw  it  into  the 
liquid,  and  leave  it  to  ferment.  After  it  has  worked  about  two 
4ays^  put  it  into  a  barrel,  with  all  die  flowers  of  the  clary  ; 
^nd  as  soon  as  it  ceases  to  hiss,  stop  it  up,  and  let  it  remain  ibr 
three  months.  At  the  end  of  that  time  rack  it  off  fine  into 
another  cask,  adding  a  pint  and  a  half  of  brandy  ;  and,  when 
it  has  thus  remained  closely  stopped  six  weeks  longer,  it  may 
be  bottled  or  drank.  This  excellent  wine  has  idl  the  true  vinous 
flavour  of  the  grap^ ;  and,  indeed  the  best  imitations,  of  most 
foreign  wines  fnay  be  improved  by  having  a  portion  oLmmy 
flowers  in  their  composition.  This  is  one  of  tbe  chief  ^^rets 
in  making  ^British  wines  truly  resemble  those  of  fbreigni  Ijgfn- 
tries. 


Barley  Wint^  or  Cherry  Beer. 

To  the  wort  produced  by  a  bushel  of  the  palest  malt,  aa 
soon  as  the  fermentation  a  little  declines,  add  an  ounce  of  yel- 
k>w  sandeia  id  powder^'  and  half  an  ounee  of  almond  cake* 


BRITISH  'WllfBS;'caRl)rAt8,  &C.  tf^jf 

Only  a  qaairter  part  of  the  asual  quantity  of  hops  most  be  used; 
m  the'  bibrrish  arooMtSc  and  a^miably  pQngent  taste  of  this 
d^ant  wood,  as' well  aa  its  pleasanl  tcent^  very  fiur  superior 
t0  eitlier  the  white  or  dieved  sandcirs,  will  be  communicated  to 
Ae  Kquor,  and  snttciently  assist  in  preserving  it.  Those  "pef* 
sens,  it  has  been  ingenidosly  tettiiAed,  who  may  marvel  at  this 
process  for  making  dierry  bear,  both  red  and  white,  without  a 
cherry  of  any  sort  in  either,  can  easily,  if  they  pleas^  flavour 
small  ale  or  worts,  one  with  black  and  the  other  with  white 
heart  cherries,  and  they  may  then  toon  be  convinced  that  nei- 
ther will  be  more  wholesome,  nor  nearly  so  agreeable,  as  those 
^dneh  fffeh^VTecammendec) :  and,  what  is  still  more  wonder* 
fbl,  the  liqneb  actually  .made  with  the  frmt  itself  will  be  fiofind 
to  possesr  mtidi  less  of  the  trvo.dieny  flavour.  In  a  similar 
way,  the  red,  being  assisted  with  lagwobd>  may  be  ma^a  cop* 
rant  beer;  gopseberty  beer*.  raq>berry  .beer^  eUtBrberry .  beer, 
&c.  of  the  different  colours,  :whidi  all.  dieee  ftiiits  possess* 
The  white,  however,  should  be 'sweetened  with  loaf*sugar. 
These  fruit  beers,  or  barley  wines,  tBt&hj  no  means  ill-adapted 
to  our  fiirnkte;  aAd  ought,  if  well  prepax^d^  and  sold  at 
moderate  prices,  Isssen  in  some  degree  the  alarming  and  most 
immoiElerate  use  of  .qpitifttous  liquors. 

To  improve  VUiatei  Wtkes. 

Take  a  pint  of  clarified  honey,  a  pmt  of  water,  ift  which 
faisios  of  the  Bun  have  been  well  steeped,  and-  tiutee  gills  of 
good  n^hite  wine  or  red  (acoording  to  the  colour  of  the  wine 
yott  wish  to  imprd^e>)  let  them  boil  over  a  flipw  fire,  dli  a  third 
part  ia  wasti^,  taking.off  the  scum  as  fast  as  it  rises ;  Aen  put 
it  very  hot  into  your  vitiated  wine,  letting  it  stand  with  the 
bun^out.  Afterwards  put  into  a  linen  bag  a  little  mace,  nut* 
meg  and  cloves, -aq^  }«t  it  hang  in  the  wine  by  a  string  for 
three  or  four  days.  By  this  method,  either  new  or  old  irines 
i|rill  not  only  be  fined,  but  much  improved  other  way$i  for  by 
;t  they  are  recovered  from  their  foulness  and  decay,  and  acquire 
an  agr^ble  smell  and  flavour.  They  may  be  still  further  im.i- 
proved,*  if,  after  taking  out  the  spice,  you  hang  in  its  place  a 
amallbagof  white  muatard-seed,  a  little  bruised.  The  wcHrk 
will  then  be  complete. 


528  DOMESTIC  COOKERT* 

To  restore  British  Whut  that  are  Pricked. 

Take  and  rack  your  wines  down  into  another  cask,  wbera 
the  lees  of  good  wines  are  fresh ;  then  take  a  pint  of  strong 
aqua  vitee,  and  scrape  half  a  pound  of  yellow  bees'  wax  into  ift» 
which  by  .heating  the  spirit  over  a  gentle  fire  will  melt:  after 
which  dip  a  piece  of  doth  into  it,  and  when  a  little  dry  set  it 
on  fire  with  a  brimstone  match,  put  it  into  the  bunghole«  and 
stop  it  up  dose. 

To  keep  Wines  from  twning  Sour. 

Boil  a  gallon  of  wine,  with  half  an  ounce  of  beaten  oyster 
shells,  or  crabs'  claws  burnt  into  powder,  to  every  ten  gallons 
of  your  wine ;  then  strain  out  the  liquor  through  a  sieve,  and 
when  cdd,  put  it  into  your  wine  of  the  same  sort,  and  it  will 
destroy  the  add  and  give  it  a  pleasant  taste. 

N,  B.  A  lump  <£  unslacked  lime  put  into  your  cask  will 
also  keep  wine  from  turning  sour. 

To  sweeten  Wines, 

In  thirty  gallons  of  wine  infuse  a  handful  of  the  flowers  of 
clary ;  then  add  a  pound  of  mustard^seed,  dry  ground,  put  it 
into  a  bag,  and  sink  it  to  the  bottom  of  the  cask. 

.    For  Wine  when  Ropy. 

Tap  your  cask  of  wine,  and  put  a  piece  of  coarse  linen 
doth  iipon  that  end  of  the  cock  which  goes  to  the  inside  of  the 
cask;  then  rack  it  into  a  dry  cask :  to  thirty  gallons  of  wine  pat 
in  five  ounces  of  powdered  alum.  Roll  and  shake  thetn  wdl 
together,  and  it  will  fine  down,  and  provlf  a  very  dear  and 
pleasant  wine.       , 


tt' 


Tq  sweeten  a  nmsty  Caski  - 

Take  some  dung  of  a  miUdng  cow,  when  it  is  freslddimd 
mix  it  with  a  quantity  of  warm  water,  so  as'JO'make  ii»^sufli* 
ciently  liquid  to  pass  readily  through  a  large  ^nnd ;  .^  pre* 
viously  dissolve  in  this  water  two  pounds  of  bay  sal^ 
pound  of  alum ;  then  put  the  whole  into  a  pot 
stirring  it  with  a  stick;  when  near  boiling  pour  iti 
cask,  then  bung  it  tight,  and  shake  it  weU  about  for 


BRiTlfiR  WIN1S8,  CORDIA1.9,  &C«  620 

'imnutS8,'and  leC  it  refnain  in  for  two  liourt ;  then  take  oat  the 
bung  to  let  the  vapour  out ;  after  which  put  in  your  bung 
again,  and  give  it  another  stirring;  at  the  end  of  two  hours 
more,  you  may  rinse  it  out  with  cold  water,  till  it  comes  out 
perfectly  dear :  then  hare  in  readiness  one  pound  of  bay  salt, 
^nd  a  qutfter  of  a  pound  of  alum  boiled  in  a  little  water.  Re- 
peat this  as  you  did  the  former,  and  when  emptied  it  n  ill  be  fit 
iat  use,  or  you  may  bung  it  up  for  keeping. 

Haw  4o  make  «  Match  to  match  Wines  with. 
Melt  some  brimstone,  and  dip  into  it  a  piece  of  coarse  linen 
cloth  ;  of  which,  when  cold,  take  a  piece  about  an  inch  broad 
and  five  inches  long,  and  set  fire  to  it,  putting  it  into  the  bung- 
bole,  with  one  end  listened  under  the  bung,  which  musi  be 
driven  in  very  tight :  let  it  remain  for  a  fisw  hours  before  yod 
remove  it  out. 

CORDIALS,  &c. 

Peppermint. 

for  twenty  gallons,  take  thirteen  oi  rectified  malt  spirit,' 
fifteen  pennyweights  of  the  oil  of  peppermint,  twelve  pounds- 
of  loaf-sugar,  one  pint  and  a  half  of  the  spirit  of  wine;  fill  it' 
op  with  water.  To  fine  your  liquor,  proceed  as  follows:--* 
Take  two  ounces  of  alum  and  a  little  wsiter ;  boil  it  for  half  an 
hour ;  then  put  to  it,  by  degrees,  ^>ne  ounce  of  salt  of  tartar  ; 
when  nearly  cold,  pour  it  into  your  cask,  and  stir  it  well  about 
with  your  staff  for  five  or  six  minutes.  It  must  not  be  stopped 
close  till  fine.  You  may  make  any  quantity  you  like,  by  re- 
ducing or  increasing  the  ingredients  proportionally. — To  pre-^* 
pare  the  ingredientfliyou  must  first  properly  kill  the  oils,  which 
must  be  done  by  beating  them  in  a  mortar  with  a  few  lumps  o^ 
loaf-sugar  and  a  little  salt  of  tartar,  till  they  are  well  mixed 
toge^er  ;  then  add  by  degrees  half  a  gill  of  the  spirit  of  wine, 
pound  and  rtib  the  same  well  together,  till  it  is  so  incorporated, 
that  thtfe  is  no  appearance  of  oil  left ;  then  put  it  into  a  cA 
with  tl^  rest  of  the  spirit  of  wine,  and  beat  the  whole  well 
togetht%With  a  stick.  Put  the  sugar  into  about  two  gallons  of 
water,  afid  take  the  scum  clean  off;  observing,  that  the  water 
, must  be  the  softest  you  can  get,  and  must  be  first  boiled,  and 
19  St 


630  DOMESTIC  COOKEBT. 

fltand  tiir  nearly  cold ;  then  mix  the  whole  together  in  your 

cask. 

Caraway, 

For  three  gallons,  take  seven  quarts  of  rectified  malt  spirit, 
tliree  pennyweights  of  the  oil  of  caraway,  two  ounces  cyf  cassia> 
two  pounds  of  loaf-sugar,  one  gill  of  spirit  of  wine^  and  fill 
up  with  water.  The  cassia  and  caraway  seeds  must  |>e  well 
pounded,  and  steeped  for  three  or  four  days  in  aquart  of  the 
spirit,  and  the  oil  must  be  killed  the  same  way  as  for  pepper* 
mint ;  fine  and  work  it  albO  the  same. 

Aniseed. 

For  three  gallons,  take  seven  quarts  of  rectified  malt  spirit^ 
five  pennyweights  .of  tiie  oil  of  aniseed,  one  pound  of  loaf* 
sugar,  one  gill  of  spirit  of  wine,  and  fill  up  with  water.  Fine 
this  with  alum  only,  but  kill  your  oil  as  before  mentioned. 

Prime  Irish  Usquebaugh, 

Put  into  a  large  glass  or  stone  boktle  three  pints  of  brandy ; 
half  an  ounefe  each  of  saffron,  liquorice,  jujubes,  and  raisins 
of  the  sun ;  and  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  each  of  coriander  seeds 
and  cinnamon.  Then  melt  a  pound  and  a  half  of  sugar  iix  a 
quart  of  water,  put  it  to  the  rest»  and  let .  the  whole  infuse 
three  weeks ;  after  which  time,  pour  off  the  dear  liquor.  This 
is  an  excellent  cordial,  and  ftiuch  esteemed  by  the  Parisians,  to 
whom  it  was  originally  introduced  by  a  celebrated  general  officer 
in  the  Irish  brigade. 

Choicest  Green  and  Yellow  Usqttebaugh. 

These  cordial  liquors  are  seldom  made  well  for  sale,  or  they 
would  be  in  much  higher  estimation.  The  be^'^way  of  |>re- 
paring  them  is  as  follows :  —Take  a  gallon  of  th|f  best  brandy, 
an  ounce  of  cinnamon,  half  an  ounce  each  of  mj|p9  and  cloves, 
a  quarter  of  an  ounce  each  of  nutmeg  and  ginge#,"and  the  rind 
af,|i  Seville  orange  ;  beat  the  whole  of  the  spices  in  a  mortar, 
and  infuse  them  in  the  brandy  for  eight  days.  Then  Ml  two 
ounces  of  slioed  and  bruised  stick  liquorice,  and  a  |[ftid  oi 
atoned  sun  or  jar  raisins,  in  three  pints  of  water,  till  redtteed 
to  half  the  quantity ;  and  straining  the  liquid,  dissolve  in  it 


BRITISH  WINES,  COHBIALS,  ScC.  &9il 

two  ooncet  of  powdered  loarsugar.  Mix  this,  in  aobther  ves- 
fld,  wiih  the  elear  infusion  of  the  brandy  aud  spices,  and  the 
usquebaugh  will  want  nothing  but  the  respective  colours.  To 
make  half  this  quantity  of  usquebaugh  green^  pound  sufficien 
spinach  to  produce  half  a  gill  of  juice;  mix  it  with  as  much 
water  ;  simmer  them  slowly  over  the  fire  for  ten  minutes ;  and^ 
when  cool,  add  this  green  decoction  to  colour  that  portion  of 
the  liquor :  for  the  other  half,  which  is  wanted  to  be  made 
yellow,  steep  half  an  ounce  of  saffron  in  brandy  or  white  wine, 
preas  it  through  a  sofllinen  bag,  and  add  it  to  the  remainder  of 

m 

the  liquor.  Pat  into  each  quantity  a  few  drops  of  warm  alum 
finings ;  shake  the  bottles  well  two  or  three  times  a  day,  for 
three  or  four  days,  carefully  giving  it  vent  each  time  ;  and,  in 
less  than  a  month,  these  excellent  stomachic'  cordials  will  be 
sufficiently  fine,  and  fit  for  use. 

French  Noyeau. 

This  delicious  cordial  liqueur,  generally  so  ill  indicated  in 
England,  is  made  witfi  the  greatest  ease,  when  the  right  method 
is  known,  where  the  best  qncoloured  brandy  is  obtainable ;  but 
it  will  not  be  sufficient  to  substitute  malt  spirit  for  French  bran- 
dy, nor  even  bitter  almonds  for  apricot  kernels.  The  genuine 
Paris  receipt  is  simgly  as  follows: — In  nine  quarts  of  white 
brandy,  with  a  quart  of  orange-flower  water,  adding  six 
ounces  of  loaf-sugar  for  each  quart  of  the  brandy,  infuse  for 
six  weeks  whatever  quantity  of  fresh  apricot  kernels  may  be 
judged  to  impart  the  most  approved  flavour.  The  sugar  must 
be  carefully  broken  into  bits,  and  dipped  into  an  equal  quan- 
tity of  common  water  the  moment  before  it  is  put  into  the  in- 
fusion. That  precaution  taken,  and  these  directions  exactly 
followed,  the  whole  is  to  be  filtered  through  a  flannel  or  cotton 
bag,  when  the  process  will  be  cpmplet^  for  producing  this 
charming  French  liqueur.  # 

0 

Clove  Cordial. 

For  three  gallons,  take  two  gallons  of  reetifSed  malt  spi^ 
halj^  pound  of  clove  pepper,  two  pennyweights  of  the  oil  of 
clove^  one  pint  of  elder  juice,  one  pound  and  a  half  of  loaf- 
su^r.'  Fill  up  with  water.  To  colour  it,  put  some  archil  in 
a  bag,  and  press  it  intd  the  spirit  till  it  becomes  a  deep  red. 


582  BDMBSTIC  COOKVRT. 

ttod  let  it  fine  of  itself.    If  yea  choose  it  white,  leave  oat  tfie 
elder  jaice  and  archil,  and  fine  it  the  same  wmy  as  peppenaiot. 

Cinnamon  CwdiaL 

For  three  gallons,  take  two  gallons  of  rectified  nsalt  spirit^, 
one  pennyweight  ioid  a  half  of  oil  of  cassia,  half  a  penny- 
weight of  the  oil  of  orange,  two  drops  of  the  oil  of  caraway, 
half  an  ounce  of  cinnamon ;  two  pounds  of  loaf«8ugar.  Coloar 
it  with  burnt  sugar,  and 'fine  it  with  a  little  isinglass. 

French  Ratafia,  or  incomparable  Cordial  Gin. 

This  fine  cordial  liquor  is  made  by  infusing,  in  nine  quarts 
of  brandy,  half  a  pound  of  the  choicest  juniper-berries,  twa 
ounces  a£  cinnamon,  two  drachms  of  mace,  a  drachm  of  cori-- 
ander  seeds,  and  a  dosen  cloves,  all  well  beaten  in  a  mortar ; 
to  which  must  be  added  four  pounds  and  a  half  of  sugar,  die* 
solved  oyer  the  fire  in  two  quarts  of  water.  The  syrup,  when 
made,  is  to  be  poured  hot  over  the  ingredients ;  and  the  vessel 
containing  them  being  closely  stopped,  exposed  for  six  weeks 
to  the  heat  of  the  sun,  and  the  liquid  then  passed  through  a 
cotton  or  flannel  filtering-bag,  the  process  will  be  complete,  and 
the  cordial  excellent. 

English  Common  and  Red  Ratafias. 

An  agreeable  common  ratafia  is  sometimes  made  in  England^ 
by  infusing  half  an  ounce  of  nutmeg,  half  a  pound  of  bitter 
almonds,  and  the  same  quantity  of  Lisbon  sugar,  with  4ialf  a 
grain  of  ambergrease,  in  two  quarts  of  clear  proof  spirit^;  pre- 
yiously  bruising  the  nutmeg  and  almonds,  and  well  pounding 
the  ambergrease  with  the  sugar  in  a  marble  mortar.  When  the 
whole  has  digested,  for  some  time,  in  a  warm  situation,  it  is 
filtered  through  a  bag,  yid  bottled  for  use.,>  Red  ratafias  are 
also  frequently  made  in  England,  chiefly  either  with  black 
cherries,  bitter  almonds,  spices,  uid  proof  p||irits,  only;  or 
jmtii  a  mixture  of  cherries,  gooseberries,  mulberries,  ijgd  rasp- 
Bmies,  besides  the  other  articles.  This  latter  is  ut 
tinguished  by  the  name  of  dry  or  sharp  ratafia ;  bi 
though  they  are  all  pleasant  cordials,  is  comparable 
foade  according  to  the  French  method* 


BRITISH  TVINKI^  COftIUALS»  Ac.  58S 

Maearoni  Carihd, 

This  favoarite  French  liqueur  is  veiy  little  known  in  l^ng* 
land.  The  secret  of  making  it  is,  even  in  France;  confined  to 
a  very  few  persona.  We  have,  however,  obtained  the  genuine 
receipt,  which  is  asfoHowsr-^Infase,  fbr  fborteendays,  in  nine 
pints  of  brandy,  one  pound  of  bitter  almonds,  with  a  stnaB 
quantity  of  Bohemian  or  Spanish  angelica  root  beaten  together  t 
shaking  frequently  the  vessel  which  contains  all  these  iiigre<B-» 
ents.  At  the  expiration  of  that  time,  place  the  whole  contents 
in  a  cucurbit ;  and,  distilling,  in  balneo  marice,  five  pints  of 
spirit  thus  impregnated  with  the  flavour  of  the  almonds  and 
angelica,  make  a  syrup  with  ^ve  pounds  of  sugar,  two  quarts 
of  eau-de-miHe-fleurs,  and  three  quarts  of  common  distilled 
water.  This  being  mixed  with  the  spirits,  add  thirty  drops  of 
the  essence  of  lemons ;  af\er  which,  filter  it  through  blotting* 
paper.  This  operation  is  readily  performed:  and  the  liquor, 
having  once  passed  through,  becomes  a  delicious  cordial,  of  the 
roost  brilliant  clearness ;  charming,  at  the  same  time,  both  the 
taste  and  sight. 

Qneen^s  CardiaL 

For  three  gallons,  take  seven  quarts  of  malt  spirit,  one 
pennyweight  and  a  half  of  the  oil  of  mint,  one  pennyweight 
of  the  oil  of  caraway,  one  ounce  of  coriander  seeds,  one  ounce 
of  caraway  seeds,  half  an  ounce  of  cassia,  a  quarter  of  an 
o«nce  of  mace,  one  pint  of  spirit  of  wine,  and  two  pounds  of 
loaf-sugar.     Fill  up  with  water. 

N.  B.  The  seeds,  cassia,  and  mace,  must  be  bruised,  and 
steeped  in  the  spirit  for  three  or  four  days,  and  well  sbaked 
twice  a  day.  The  oils  must  be  killed  as  for  peppermint.  Fine 
with  alum  only. 

•^  Princess  Cordial. 

For  three  gallons,  take  two  quarts  of  cherry  brandy,  one 

,  quart  of  raspberry  brandy,  one  quart  of  raisin  wine,*4ine  gal- 

mn  of  spirits,  six  pennyweights  of  the  acid  of  vitriol,  ten  drops 

of  the  oil  of  caraway,  ten  drops  of  the  essence  of  lemon,  half 

a  pint  of  the  spirit  of  wine,  and  one  pound  and  a  half  of  sugar* 

Fill  up  with  water.    Fine  it  with  alum  and  salt  of  tartar. 


£84  DOMESTIC  COOKEBT. 

Cherry  Brandy ^  called  in  France  Cherry  Ratafia. 

Stone  ft  quantity  of  the  finest  full  ripe  cherries,  mix  them 
);rith  a  few  raspberries,  bruise  them  well  together,  put  them 
into  a  proper  vessel,  and  let  them  remain  four  or  five  days ; 
being  careflil,  in  the  mean  time,  to  stir  and  press  them  well 
against  the  sides  of  the  vessel,  two  or  three  times  every  day, 
to  make  them  yield  all  the  rich  taste  of  the  fruit,  as  well  as 
impart  a  fine  colour.  Then,  finally  pressing  out  the  juice,  9B 
much  as  possible,  measure  it  into  a  stone  bottle ;  and,  to  every 
three  quarts  of  juice,  add  two  quarts  of  brandy.  For  each  five 
quarts  of  this  cherry  brandy,  there  must  be  three  pugils  or 
pinches  of  the  bruised  kernels  of  the  cherries,  and  a  quarter  of 
a  pound  of  fine  loaf-sugar.  The  whole  must  be  infused  in  the 
same  bottle,  with  a  pinch  of  coriander,  and  a  little  cinnamon ; 
and  be  well  shaken  every  day,  for  a  week  or  more :  after  which, 
strain  it  till  very  fine,  tlirough  a  cotton  or  flannel  bag ;  put  it 
into  well- corked  bottles,  and  then,  at  length,  deposit  it  in  the 
cellar,  to  be  kept  cool  for  use. 

Caraway  Brandy. 

Steep  an  ounce  of  caraway  seeds,  and  six  ounces  of  loaf« 
sugar,  in  a  quart  of  brandy ;  let  it  stand  nine  days,  then  draw 
it  ofi^  and  you  will  have  a  good  cordial. 

Orange  Brandy, 

Take  two  gallons  of  brandy^  eighteen  Seville  oranges,  two 
pounds  and  a  half  of  loaf-sugar,  and  one  pennyweight  of  the 
essence  of  lemons.  First  pare  the  oranges  very  thin,  and  steep 
tliem  in  the  brandy,  close  stopped  in  a  stone  bottle  twelve  days ; 
then  boil  the  sugar  in  three  quarts  of  water  for  an  hour,  skim 
it,  and  when  cold,  mix  it  with  the  brandy,  and  squeeze  the 
oranges  therein.  Then  strain  it  through  a  filtering  ijig,  and 
what  is  short  of  three  gallons  make  up  with  water. 

Raspbeiry  Brandy. 

Pick  fine  dry  fruit,  put  into  a  stone  jar,  and  the  jar  iit/^^ 
a  kettle  of  water,  or  on  a  hot  hearth,  till  the  juice  will  nf^ 
strain,  and  to  every  pint  add  half  a  pound  of  sugar ;  give  one 
boil,  and  skim  it ;  when  cold,  put  equal  quantities  of  juice  and 


BRITISH  WINBS,  CORDIALS,  &e.  635 

brandy,  shake  well,  and  bottle.    Some  people  prefer  it  stronger 
of  the  brandj. 

Imperiat  Nectar. 

For  three  gailons,  take  six  quarts  of  malt  spirit,  two  quarts 
of  raisin  wine^  two  ounces  of  peach  and  apricot  kernels,  one 
pennyweight  of  oil  oi  orange,  half  a  pennyweight  of  the  oil  of 
cloves,  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  mace,  two  large  nutmegs^ 
half  a  pint  of  spirit  of  wine,  and  two  pounds  of  loa&-«ugar. 
Fill  up  with  water. 

N.  B.  The  kernels,  mace,  and  nutmegs,  must  be  bruised 
in  a  mortar,  and  steeped  in  some  spirits  for  eight  or  ten  days. 
Colour  it  with  burnt  sugar,  of  a  fair  brown  colour,  and  let  it 
stand  to  fine  itself. 

Shi'ub,  as  made  in  the  West  Indies. 

Having  first  made  a  good  syrup  with  twelve  pounds  of  the 
best  moist  sugar,  they  add  three  quarts  of  lime  juice,  and  nine 
quarts  of  rum ;  mixing  them  well  together,  and  fining  the 
liquid  in  the  same  manner  as  wine.  A  few  pints  of  brandy^ 
with  proportionably  less  rum,  is  considered  as  an  improvement. 
In  England,  where  fresh  lime  juice  is  not  to  be  procured,  and 
where  moist  sugar  unadulterated  is  by  no  means  with  certainty 
always  obtainable  in  small  quantities,  lemon-juice  and  loaf- 
sugar  must  be  substituted  ;  though  both^  perhaps^  a{Ld  certainly 
the  former^  are  somewhat  inferior. 

Excellent  Brandy  and  Rum  $hrub. 

Put  a  quart  of  the  finest  French  brandy  into  a  large  bottle^ 
with  the  juice  of  two  large  lemons,  the  outer  rind  of  one,  and 
about  a  quarter  of  a  nutmeg.  Let  it  stand  three  days  closely 
corked  ;•  and  then  add  a  pint  and  a  half  of  old  mountain  wine, 
and  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  loaf-sugar.  Mix  them  well, 
and  strain  the  liquor  twice  through  a  flannel  bag ;  then  bottle  it 
for  use.  Incomparable  rum  shrub  may  be  made  nearly  in  the 
same  manner,  by  procuring  the  best  old  Jamaica  pine-apple 
rum,  and  substituting  it  for  the  brandy.  Both,  perhaps,  might; 
be  somewhat  improved  by  having  only  half  the  lemon-peel, 
and  the  same  quantity  of  Seville  orange  rind. 


Saa  DQMBSTSC  COOKE&T. 

Currant  Shrui*^ 

In  a  quart  of  rum  or  brandy,  put  three  quarters  of  a  pint 
of  the  strained  juice  of  red  or  white  currants,  and  the  rind  of 
half  a  Seville  orange,  with  a  litde  nutmeg.  When  it  has  stood 
aday  or  two,  closely  corked,  add  a  pint  of  white  wine,  with 
three  quarters  oi  a  pound  of  loaf<-sugar;  and  straining  it»  as 
jsoon  as  the  sugar  is  dissolved,  through  a  flannel  bag,  bottle  it 
for  use.  Red  currants  will  be  best  tor  the  brandy ;  and  white 
ones,  for  the  rum:  good  raisin  wine  may  be  used  instead  of 
mountain  or  sherry. 

Fine  English  Hollands,  and  ether  Cordial  Gins, 

By  the  following  easy  method,  an  excellent  imitation  may 
be  made  of  the  best  Hollands  gin  :— Take  a  lump  or  two  of 
sagar,  two  tea-spoonfuls  each  of  oils  of  juniper,  turpentine, 
and  almonds,  and  twenty  drops  of  oil  of  vitriol  j  and  rub  them 
in  a  marble  mortar,  with  about  half  a  gill  of  the  strongest 
spirits  of  wine,  such  as  will  bum  dry  in  a  silver  spoon,  intro* 
duced  by  a  little  at  a  time,  till  the  spirit  kills  or  overpowers  all 
the  oily  appearances.    Then  dissolve  half  a  pound  of  lump 
sugar  in  two  quarts  of  clear  water  which  has  been  boiled  or 
distilled;  and  having  procured  two  gallons  of  rectified  malt 
^irit,  or  rather  of  whiskey,  mix  it  first  with  the  combined  oils 
and  spirits  of  wine,  and  afterward  add  the  dissolved  sugar  and 
water.     After  stirring  the  whole  well  together,  put  in  a  tea« 
8(>oonful  of*  warm  alum  finings,  shake  the  whole  well  together, 
let  it  stand  steadily  to  settle  and  clear,  and  draw  it  off  or  bottle 
it  for  use.     If  the  spirits  be  good,  particularly  with  whiskey, 
and  the  whole  well  managed,  it  will  so  resemble  the  best  Hol- 
lands as  not  easily  to  be  distinguished  from  it.    Cordial  gins,  of 
different  flavours,  may  be  made  in  a  similar  way,  ntt>re  or  Ite 
lowered  with  boiled  or  distilled  water ;  but,  except  for.  the 
imitation  of  Hollands,  whiskey  is  not  to  be  used.    By  judicious 
combinations  of  dill  and  coriander  seed,  with  a  very  smairpro- 
portion  of  liquorice,  angelica  root,  caraway  seeds^  ginger,  and 
orange  or  lemon-peel,  and  a  quantity  of  juniper  berries  equal 
to  the  whole,  all  pounded  in  a  mortar,  boiled  in  a  close  ^^sel 
for  two  hours,  with  water  enough  to  extract  their  virtues, 
strained  off  when  cold,  and  sweetened  with  clarified  or  burnt 
sugar,  a  richness  of  flavour  may  be  acquired  far  beyond  that  of 


BRITISH  WINES,  CORDIALS,  &C.  6d7 

finy  known  gin,  without  the  use  of  pernicious  ingredients. 
The  additions  of  this  flavouring  liquid,  which  would  be  iuN 
proved  by  imssing  it  through  a  still,  and  with  which  may  be 
united  rose  and  orange-flower  water,  must  be  put  into  the 
spirits  previously  to  the  alum  finings. 

Brunntick  Mum. 

This  wholesome  and  restorative  drink,  long  so  famous  for 
its  effieacy,  seems  to  have  lost  much  of  its  medicinal  reputation 
since  it  has  been  manufactured  in  England  instead  of  being 
imported  from  the  place  where  it  probably  originated,  and  cer« 
tainl  J  attained  its  highest  degree  of  perfection*    The  genuine 
receipt,  however,  as  it  stands  recorded  in  the  town-house  of  • 
Brunswick,  is  as  follows  : — ^Take  sixty-three  gallons  of  dear 
"Water,  which  has  been  boiled  to  the  consumption  of  a  third 
part^  and  brew  it  according  to  art,  with  seven  bushels  of  wheat 
malt^  and  one  bushel  each  of  oatmeal  and  ground  beans. 
When  it  is  tunned,  the  hogshead  must  not  be  at  first  too  full ; 
and^,  on  its  beginning  to  work,  put  in  three  pounds  of  fir  and 
birch  tops,  three  handfuls  of  carduus  benedictus,  a  handful  or 
two  of  flowers  of  rosa,  a  handful  and  a  half  each  of  bumet, 
betony,  avens,  marjoram,  penny-royal,  and  mother  of  thyme; 
two  handfuU  or  more  of  elder  flowers ;  three  ounces  of  bruised 
Cardamoms,  and  an  ounce  of  bruised  barberries.     The  herbs 
and  seeds  must  not  be  put  into  the  cask  till  the  liquor  has  work- 
ed some  time ;  for,  after  they  are  added,  it  should  flow  over  as 
little  as  possible.     Fill  it  up,  at  last,  on  its  ceasing  to  ferment : 
and^  when  it  has  stopped,  put  in  ten  new-laid  eggs,  unbroken 
or  cracked,  stop  it  up  close^  and  at  the  end  of  two  years  it  will 
become  drinkable  and  pleasant.    In  order  to  make  or  brew 
good''''mum,  properly  so  called,  like  good  ale,  little  more  is 
necessary  than  to  substitute  wheat  malt  for  that  of  barley. 

Admirable  EngUih  Hypoeras. 

The  method  of  making  a  truly  admirable  English.hypocras, 
orhipppcras,  as  highly  recommended  for  it3  medibitial  virttf^s 
IB  easing  all  {palpitations  and  tremors  of  the  hiairt,  rempviiig' 
the  causes  of  fearful  apprehensions  as  Well  as  of  sudden  filets 
and  fltarUngs,  warming  a  cold  sUnnlich,'  and 'even  giving  rest  to 
wearied  limbs,  &c.  Is  as  follows;-^ Infuse,  for  a  few  hours,' in 
20  Sz 


dBS  «  DOMB8T1C  COOKERY. 

about  three  quarts  of  the  best  white  wine,  a  pound  and  a  half 
of  loaf'^sugar,  an  ounce  of  cinnamon,  two  or  three  tops  of 
sweet  marjoram,  and  a  little  long  pepper,  all  grossly  beaten  in 
a*  mortar.  Let  the  liquid  run  through  a  filtering  bag,  with  a 
grain  of  musk  ;  add  the  juice  of  a  Urge  lemon  ;  give  it  a  gen- 
tle heat  over  the  fire ;  pour  it  again  on  the  spices ;  and,  when 
it  has  stood  three  or  four  days,  strain  it  through  a  filtering  bag, 
and  bottle  It  for  use.  This  hypocras  is  strongly  recommended, 
not  only  as  a  most  exeelledt  and  generous  wine,  but  as  a  very 
qorious  cordial  to  refresh  and  enliven  the  spirits.  If  a  red 
colour  be  preferred,  the  hypocras  may  be  made  of  any  required 
hue,  by  substituting  red  fbr  white  wine ;  or  adding  juice  of 
elder  berries  or  mulberries,  syrup  of  dove-giUiflowers,  cochi- 
neal, &c. 

Ancient  British  Liquor,  called  Bragget. 

This  once  famous  old  British  liquor  is  still  made  by  a  few 
respectable  families,  diiefly  in  Wales ;  from  one  of  which,  we 
have  been  favoured  with  an  admirable  method  of  preparing  it. 
The  original  Welsh  name  is  bragod;  from  which  has  been 
formed  that  of  bragget  or  braggot,  for  it  is  found  both  ways  in 
the  few  old  dictionaries  and  other  books  where  it  occurs,  and 
simply  defined  as  a  drink  consisting  of  honey  and  spices. 
Were  this  correct,  it  could  only  be  considered  as  the  Welsh  appel- 
lation of  mead  or  metheglin ;  but,  according  to  our  informa- 
tion, bragget  implies  a  combination  of  malt  liquor,  with  honey 
and  spices,  the  best  method  of  preparing  which  is  as  follows : 
•r-Take  after  the  rate  of  a  gallon  of  water  to  a  pound  of  honey« 
and  stir  it  till  the  honey  be  melted.  Then,  adding  half  a  hand- 
ful each  of  rosemary  tops,  bay  leaves,  sweetUriar,  angelica, 
balm,  thyme,  .or  other  sweet  herbs,  with  half  an  ounce  of 
sliced  ginger,  and  a  little  nutmeg,  mace,  dnuamon,  and  a  few 
cloves,  boil  them  gently  together  for  nearly  half  an  hour; 
scumming  it  well,  till  it  looks  tolerably  clear.  In  the  mean 
time,  having  prepared  three  gallons  of  the  first  runnings  of 
strong  ale,  or  sweet  wort,  mix  the  two  liquids  quite  hot,  with 
all  the  herbs  and  spices ;  and,  stirring  them  together  for  some 
time  over  a  fire,  but  without  suffering  thepa  to  boil,  strain  off 
the  liquor,  and  set  it  to  cool.    When  it  becomes  only  the 


BRITI8H  WINES,  CORDIALS,  ScC.     ^  §09 

irannth  of  new  milk,  ferment, it  with  good  ale  yeast;  and, 
after  it  has  properly  worked,  tun  it  up,  and  hang  a  bag  of 
braised  spices  in  the  barrel,  where  it  is  to  remain  all  the  time  of 
drawing.  It  is  generally  drank  from  the  cask  ;  but  may  be 
bottled^  like  other  liquors,  any  time  after  it  has  entirely  ceased 
to  hiss  in  the  barrel.  A  weaker  sort  of  bragget  is  sometimes 
prepared  with  the  third  runnings  of  the  ale,  a  smaller  prol 
portion  of  honey,  and  the  strained  spices,  &c.  with  a  few  fresh 
herbs;  the  second  runnings,  in  that  case,  being  made,  the 
family  ale.  These  arrangements,  however,  and  other  obvious 
deviations,  are  made  according  to  the  taste  or  inclination  of  the 
respective  parties.  • 

Method  of  making  Alum  Finings  for  all  Sorts  of  Spirituous 

Compounds  and  Cordials. 

The  method  of  preparing  alum  water  for  the  purpose  of 
making  what  is  called  finings,  is  by  boiling  a  drachm  of  alum 
in  a  pint  of  water,  till  half  the  water  has  evaporated ;  and  put- 
ting in  the  cordial  liquor,  which  requires  fining,  after  the  rate 
of  only  half,  a  tea-spoonful,  made  of  the  warmth  of  new  milk, 
for  every  gallon.  This  small  quantity  will  not  be  found  at  all 
to  affect  the  liquor,  but  care  must  be  taken  never  to  exceed  that 
-proportion. 

Ginger  Pop. 

Take  fifteen  gallons  of  water  and  eight  ounces  of  ginger, 
boil  them  together  for  half  an  hour :  then  add  ten  pounds  of 
sugar,  having  been  previously  clarified.  Let  it  boil  a  few 
minutes,  and  take  off  the  scum.  Put  it  into  a  cooler,  and  let 
it  stand  till  new  milk-warm ;  then  cork  it,  putting  in  the  cask 
the  rinds  and  juice  of  fifteen  good  lemons,  half  an  ounce  of 
ismglas^  melted  in  half  a  pint  of  warm  water,  one  bottle  of 
brandy,  and  two  table-spoonfuls  of  good  yeast  Bung  up  the 
cask,  and  set  it  in  a  cool  cellar  for  ten  days.  When  you  msj 
bottle  it  offy  (straining  it  carefully.)  It  must  be  corked  with 
the  best  corks,  and  tied  or  wired  down.  Keep  it  ten  days  in  a 
«Dol  cellar,  when  it  will  be  fit  for  use. 


'640  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

BITTERS. 

Wine  Bitters. 
Take  one  ounce  of  gentian  roo^  one  ounce  of  the  yellow 
rind  of  fresh  lemons,  two  drachms  of  long  pepper,  one  quart 
of  white  wine ;  steep  them  for  six  days,  and  strain  it  through 
a  filtering  bag  or  cap-pi^r. 

Spirituoue  Bitters, 

Take  two  ounces  of  gentian  root,  one  ounce  of  Seville 

orange-peel,  dried,  half  an  ounce  of  lesser  cardamon  seeds  free 

from  the  husks,  and  one  quart  of  spirits.     Put  these  into  the 

spirits  to  steep  for  fourteen  days :  then  strain  it  through  some 

cap-paper. 

Ale  Bitters, 

Take  one  gallon  of  ale,  four  ounces  of  gentian  root,  and 
four  ounces  of  fresh  lemon-peel.  Let  those  steep  in  the  ale  for 
ten  days,  then  strain  it  through  a  bag,  and  bottle  and  cork  it 
for  use.    This  is  an  excellent  bitter  for  ale. 

A  verif  good  Bitter. 

Take  two  ounces  of  gentian  root,  half  an  ounce  of  Virginian 
snake-root,  half  a  drachm  of  cochineal,  and  one  quart  of  bran- 
dy. Let  these  steep  for  three  days ;  then  strain  them  through 
some  cap-paper,  and  bottle  it  up  for  use. 

N.  B.  This  is  a  very  good  bitter  for  the  stomach,  and  very 
proper  in  families. 

CIDER  ANn  PERRY. 

Best  Method  of  making  Cider. 

Cider,  strictly  speaking,  is  a  vinous  beverage,  prepared  by 
the  expression  and  fermentation  of  the  juice  of  apples  ;  when, 
however,  this  juice  is  mixed  with  that  of  pears,  crabs,  &c  it 
still  retains  the  general  appellation  of  dder.  From  the  very 
great  variety  in  apples,  and  the  different  degrees  of  flavour  in 
-fruit  of  the  same  species,  according  to  local  circumstances,  the 
state  of  maturity,  &c.  it  cannot  be  expected  that  all  the  ex* 
cellence  of  the  art  can  be  developed  and  concentrated  in  any 
single  description.     By  detailing,  however,  the  best  general 


BRITISH  WINBS9  CORDIALS,  &C.  541 

tmetioe  of  the  diief  cider  oountieSi  a  very  gocid  idea  will  not 
fail  to  be  afforded  those  who  may  possess  little  practical  skill  or 
experience  in  preparing  this  useful  and  agreeable  beverage* 
The  goodness  of  cider  will  always  greatly  depend  on  the  pro- 
per mixture,  or  rather  on  the  proper  separation,  of  the  sev&al 
fruits.    Those  which  have  their  rind  and  pulp  tinged  with  green, 
or  are  red  without  a  mixture  of  yellow,  which  last  colour  dis- 
.appears  in  the  first  stages  of  fermentation,  must  be  carefully 
set  apart  from  such  as  are  yellow,  or  yellow  intermixed  with 
red.     These  latter  kinds,  which  should  be  ripe  enough  to  fall 
from  the  tree  without  being  much  shaken,  are  alone  capable  of 
making  fine  cider ;  and  esch  kind  should  be  separately  collect- 
ed, and  kept  till  it  becomes  perfectly  mellow.     Prior  to  its 
being  ground,  every  heap  should  be  examined,  and  all  decayed 
or  green  fruit  carefully  taken  away ;  a  trifling  labour,  which 
the  excellence  of  the  liquor,  and  the  ease  with  which  too  great 
a  degree  of  fermentation  may  thus  be  prevented,  will  amply 
repay.     Each  kind  of  fruit  shoijd  be  separately  ground ;  or,  at 
least  be  mixed  with  such  only  as  becomes  ripe  precisely  at  the 
same  time ;  it  is  the  former  practice  which  produces  fine  ciders, 
of  different  flavours  and  degrees  of  strength,  from  the  same 
orchard.     The  fruit  should  be  ground,  as  nearly  as  possible  to 
a  uniform  mass,  in  which  the  rinds  and  kemeb  are  scarce  dis*, 
tinguishable.     When  the  apples'  are  thoroughly  ground,  the 
pulp  must  remain  twenty**four  hours  before  it  be  taken  to  the 
press.     Tf  they  were  properly  mellow,  a  large  quantity  of  pulp 
will  pass  through  the  hair  doth  in  which  it  is  expressed ;  and, 
as  this  will  be  thrown  off  in  the  first  stages  of  fermentation,  the 
casks  should  be  each  filled  about  a  gallon  short. 

To  make  it  work  kindly,  heat  a  little  honey,  three  whites 
of  eggs,  and  a  little  flour,  together ;  put  them  into  a  fine  rag, 
and  let  them  hang  down  by  a  string  to  the  middle  of  the  dder 
cask  ;  then  put  in  a  pint  of  new  ale  yeast  pretty  warm,  and  let 
it  purge  itself  from  dross  five  or  six  days ;  after  which,  draw 
it  off  from  the  lees  into  smaller  casks,  or  bottles,  as  you  have 
occasion.  If  you  bottle  it,  take  care  to  leave  the  liquor  an  inch 
short  of  the  corks,  lest  the  bottles  burst  by  the  fermentation. 
If  any  such  danger  exists,  you  may  perceive  it  by  the  hissing 
of  the  air  through  the  corks;  when  it  will  be  necessary  to  open 
them,  to  let  out  the  fermenting  air.    In  winter  cover  up  th6 


M2  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 


bottles  and  casks  warm ;  bat  in  sunimer  plac6  thein  in  as  oold  a 
pUce  as  yoa  can,  lest  the  heat  should  make  them  ferment  and 
Imrst  the  botdes,  or  the  liquor  became  musty*  That  it  may 
the  better  feed^  and  preserve  its  strength,  put  a  small  lump  of 
loaf-sugar  into  every  bottle. 

Ciderkin,  Perkm,  Purre,  or  Water  Cider. 

These  various  names  are,  in  different  parts  of  the  countxy, 
^iven  to  an  inferior  kind  of  liquor,  made  by  macerating  the 
'murk,  marc,  or  reduced  pulp,  of  the  apples,  absurdly  called 
^eese  pmnice,  from  which  the  cider  hits  been  expressed,  in  a 
small  quantity  of  water,  and  regrhadiqg  it  The  residue  of  three 
hc^pafaeads'of  cider  commonly  yields  about  one  of  this  liquor, 
which  may  be  kept  till  the  next  autumn.     It  is,  however, 
almost  immediately  fit  to  drink,  and  usually  supplies  Ae  place 
of  cider  in  farm-houses ;  except,  indeed,  during  harvest,  when 
the  labourers  are  always  indulged  with  the  stronger  liquor. 
Though  no  sort  of  attention  is  ever  paid  to  the  perkin,  as  it  is 
most  universally  called,  during  its  fermentation,  it  frequently 
continues  more  palatable  than  the  cider  of  the  same  fruit,  till 
near  the  end  of  the  following  summer.      It  should  seem,  that 
the  name  perkin  ought,  in  strictness,  to  be  confined  to  the 
smaller  sort  of  perry,  and  ciderkin  to  that  of  cider ;  though 
we  do  not  recollect  ever  to  have  seen  them  thus  classically  dis- 
tinguished.     Nor  is  there  any  known  definition  of  the  word 
purre ;  which  is  far  less  generally  used,  and  may  have  been 
originadly  a  mere  local  corrupdon  of  the  word  perry,  at  first 
intended  to  denote  a  weak  liquor  from  the  murk  of  the  com- 
bined {fruits.     The  name  of  water  cider  is  sufficiently  obvious. 
In  inany  i>arts,  these  weak  liquors  supply  the  place  of  small 
beer ;  and,  when  boiled,  after  pressure,  with  a  proper  quandty 
of  hops,  suffered  to  stand  till  cold,  and  tunned  next  day,  may 
be  kept  any  length  of  dme. 

Perrif, 

This  incomparable  Bridsh  beverage,  which  far  surpasses, 
in  its  approaches  to  genuine  wine,  all  our  other  liquors,  seems 
very  much  neglected,  and  apparendy  undervalued  in  the  gene- 
ral esdmadon.  Some  of  it,  however,  is  sufficiently  excellent 
to  be  often  sold  at  taverns,  inns,  &c.  as  the  best 


BRITISH  WINES,  CORDIALS,  ^C.  643 

where,  indeed,  it  is  then  overvalued.  More  perry,  there  seems 
maoh  reason  to  beUeve,  is  sold  in  England  under  the  name  of 
different  wtnes>  than  its  own ;  such  is  our  national  weakness^ 
with  regard  to  favourite  liquors,  &c*  It  is  remarkable  that^ 
though  every  variety  of  the  apple  which  possesses  colour  and 
richness  is  capable  of  making  fine  cider,  a  good  perry  pear  re- 
quires an  assemblage  of  qualities  rarely  found  in  the  same  fruit. 
The  juice  of  the  best  perry  pears  is  so  harsh  and  rough,  that 
even  hungry  swine  are  said  to  reject  them ;  yet,  though  the 
juice  of  these  pears,  when  the  fruit  is  attempted  to  be  eaten, 
occasions  a  long-continued  heat  and  irritation  in  the  tliroat,  by 
being  simply  pressed  from  the  pulp,  it  becomes  rich  and  sweet, 
without  more  roughness  than  is  found  agreeable  to  almost  every 
palate.  Pears,  when  full  ripe,  known  by  their  beguming  to 
&U,  are  ground  and  pressed  for  making  perry,  exactly  in  the 
same  manner  as  apples  for  cider ;  but  the  reduced  pulp  is  not 
usually  suffered  to  remain,  like  that  of  iipples,  any  time  un- 
pressed.  It  is,  therefore,  immediately  put  in  the  press,  be- 
tween several  layers  of  hair  cloths ;  the  liquor  being  received 
into  a  vat,  from  whence  it  is  removed  into  casks,  which  stand 
in  any  cool  place,  or  even  in  the  open  air,  with  their  bong- 
holes  open.  Tlie  management  of  the  liquor,  during  its  fer- 
mentation, is  similar  to  that  of  cider ;  but  perry  does  not  fur« 
nish  the  same  criterions  for  knowing  the  proper  moment  to  rack 
off.  Where  the  pears  have  been  regularly  ripe,  their  produce 
will  commonly  become  moderately  dear  and  quiet  in  a  few  days, 
and  it  must  then  be  drawn  off  from  its  grosser  lees.  Excessive 
fermentation  is  best  prevented  in  the  same  manner  as  dder ; 
and  the  liquor  is  rendered  bright  by  isinglaiBS,  which  cider  but 
seldom  requires,  though  perry  is  scarcely  ever  made  thorough* 
ly  dear  or  fit  for  the  bottle  without  it.  The  process  of  fining 
and  raddng  off  must  be  repeated,  exactly  in  the  same  manner^ 
till  the  required  degree  of  brightness  be  obtained.  The  bright- 
ness of  the  perry  being  now  secured,  its  after  management 
may  be  like  that  of  dder  :  though  it  does  not  well  bear  situSi* 
lions  exposed  to  much  change  of  temperature;  nor  can  its 
^tnie  merit,  like  that  of  dder,  be  judged  of  by  its  present 
state.  In  the  bottle,  however,  it  almost  always  retains  its 
HOod  qualities ;  and  in  that  situation  it  is  recommended  to  be 
constantly  put  at  the  conclusioa  of  the  first  succeeding  summer^ 


644  DOMESTIC  COOKSRY. 

proyided  it  then  remain  sound  and  perfect  Were  we  more  i^ 
timatelj  acquainted  with  this  excellent  liquor^  we  should,  per* 
haps,  less  frequently  be  induced  to  purchase  as  wine  what  we 
are  at  present  inclined  to  n^lect  as  perry* 


BILLS  OF  FARE,  FAMILY  DINNERS,  &c. 

BILLS  OF  FARE,  &C. 

Ust  of  Various  Ariickiin  Season  in  diffhrent  Montks. 

Meat, 

SeEF,  mutton,  and  vealj  are  in  season,  all  the  year ;  house* 
lamb,  in  January,  February,  Mardi,  November,  and  Decern* 
ber;  grass*lamb,  in  April,  May,  June,  July,  August,  Sep- 
tember, and  October;  pork,  in  January,  February,  March, 
September,  October,  November,  and  December;  budk-venison, 
in  June,  July,  August,  and  September;  and  do&- venison,  in 
October^  November,  and  December. 

Itsh. 

Jtfsiiuify.— Cod>  crawfish,  eels,  lampreys,  perdi^  tench, 
carp,  sturgeon,  skate,  thomback,  turbot,  plaice,  flounders, 
soles,  oysters,  prawns,  crabs,  lobsters,  smelts,  and  whitings. 

Fffenorjf.— Thomback,  tnrbot,  flounders,  plaice,  sturgeons, 
soles,  cod,  prawns,  oysters,  crabs,  lobsters,  smelt%  whitings, 
skate,  crawfish,  lampreys,  eels,  carp,  tench,  and  perch. 

ilfsrcA.— Tench,  carp,  mullets,  eels,  whitings^  mAt^  skate, 
thomback,  turbot^  lobsters,  flounders,  plaice,  prawns,  crawfish^ 
and  crabs. 

ApriL — Crawfish,  trout,  tendi,  chub,  carp,  mullet,  skate, 
soles,  turboty  salmon,  prawn,  lobsters,  crabs,  and  smelts* 

ilfjy.— Chub,  trout,  eels,  tendi,  carp,  smdts^  torbola^ 
soles,  salmon,  prawns,  crabs,  crawfish,  and  lobsters. 


BILLS  OF  FARE,  FAMILY  DINNERS,  &C.  646 

June, — Eels,  pike,  tench,  carp,  trout,  mackarel,  muUetB, 
turbot,  soles,  salmon,  smelts^  lobsters^  crawfish,  and  prawns. 

Jk/y. — Mackarel,  mullets,  haddocks,  cod,  flounders,  plaice, 
soles,  carp,  salmon,  skate,  thomback,  pike,  tench,  lobsters^  eels, 
crawfish,  and  prawns. 

August. — Thombacks,  skate,  plaice,  flounders,  haddocks, 
cod,  carp,  pike,  mackarel,  mullets,  oysters,  prawns,  crawfish, 
eels,  and  lobsters. 

September, — Thombacks,  plaice,  flounders,  haddocks,  cod, 

carp,  salmon,  smelts,  soles,  skate,  herrings,  oysters,  lobsters, 

pike,  and  tench. 

October. — Brills,  smelts,  bearbet,  holoberts,  dorees,  perch, 

tench,  carp,  pike,  herrings,  gudgeons,  oysters,  muscles,  cockles, 

lobsters,  and  salmon-trout. 

November. — Salmon,  bearbet,  holoberts,  dorees,  gurnets, 
tench,  pike,  carp,  smelts,  salmon,  herrings,  trout,  muscles, 
cockles,  gudgeons,  lobsters,  and  oysters. 

Decembet\ — Bearbet,  holoberts,  jiorees,  sturgeon,  gurnets, 
turbot,  carp,  soles,  codlings,  cod,  smelts,  oysters,  muscles, 
cockles,  eels,  and  gudgeons. 

Poultry  and  Game. 

JantMii^.— Pullets,  fowls,  chickens,  tame  pigeons,  capons, 
turkeys,  snipes,  woodcocks,  rabbits,  hares,  partridges,  and 
pheasants. 

February. — Fowls,  pullets,  capons,  turkeys,  chickens,  pi- 
geons, tame  rabbits,  hares,  snipes,  woodcocks,  partridges,  and 
pheasants. 

March. — Tame  rabbits,  pigeons,  ducklings,  chickens,  fowls, 
capons,  pullets,  and  turkeys. 

.    April — Chickens,  fowls,  pullets,  pigeons,  ducklings,  leve- 
rets; and  rabbits. 

May. — Chickens,  fowls,  pullets,  turkey  poults,  ducklings, 
green  geese,  leverets,  and  rabbits. 

June. — Green  geese,  chickens,  pullets,  fowls,  plovers,  tur- 
key-poults, ducklings,  wheat-ears,  leverets,  and  rabbits. 

Jtefy.-- Green  geese,  pigeons,  chickens,  fowls,  pullets,  duck  ^ 
Imgs,  jilucks,  turkey-poults,  leverets,  rabbits,  plovers,  wheat- 
rs. 
20  4  a 


549  BOMfiStiC  C06K%llir. 

Augusts — Turkey*poalt8,  gretengcliese,  chickens,  fowb^  poI- 
lets,  pigeons,  rabbits,  leverets,  ducldingB,  pftoft^ers,  wbeat-earft; 
and  wild  ducks. 

Stpianber, — Dabks/diickens,  fowls,  pullets,  turkejs,  geeee, 
larks,  pigeons,  teals,  rabbits,  hares,  and  partridge^. 

October* — Chickens,  fowls,  puUi^s,  pigeons,  turke)rft,  geese, 
snipes,  woodcbcks,  widgeons,  t^ls,  wild-ducks,  rabbits,  hares, 
larks,  dotterels,  partridges,  and  pheasants. 

iVbtfmfter.— Pigeons,  pullets;  chickens,  fowls,  turkeys, 
geese,  snipes,  wbodcocks,  widgeons,  teals,  wild-ducks,  rab-' 
bits,  hares,  dotterels,  partridges,  and  pheasants. 

iieemftfr.-- Fowls,  capons,  pirreons,  pullets,  turkeys,  geese, 
larks,  snipes,  woodcocks,  rabbits,  hares,  chickens,  dottef^, 
widgeons,  teals,  wild-ducks,  partridges,  atid  pheasants. 

« 
Fruits, 

JdLnuary, — Fears,  apples,  nuts,  almonds,  medlars,  services, 
and  grapes. 

February. — Pears,  apples,  and  grapes. 

March. — Pears,  apples,  and  forced  strawberries. 

April. — .\pples,  pears,  forced  cherries,  and  apricots  for 
tarts. 

May, — Pears,  apples,  strawberries,  melons,  green  apiiCDts, 
cherries,  goosebemes,  and  currants'  for  tarts. 

June,  —  Currants,  gooseberries,  strawberries,  cherri^, 
peaches,  pears,  apples,  at>ricdt8,  melonii,  grapes,  Aectarines, 
and  pine-apples. 

July. — Peaches,  cherries,  apples,  pears,  gooseberries,  apri- 
cots, plums,  nectarines,  melons,  raspberries',  strawberries,  ttid 
pine-apples. 

August. — Apples,  cherries,  ]fiTum8,  nectarines,'  peaches,  mul- 
berries, filberts,  figs,  grapes,  pears,  currants,  gooseberries, 
strawberries,  meloVis,  and  pine-fip|)les. 

September,— WalnutA,  grapes,  peat's;  applet,  {>lums,  peachas, 
lasaroles,  quinces,  medl^fTs,  haxeUnut^,  fitbdts,  inorello  cber* 
ries,  currants,  melons,  and  pine-apples. 

October.— Set  vices  f  medlars,  figs,  peaches,  grapes,  walnuts, 
black  and  White  bullaoe,  ^ars,  quinces,  filberts,  hatel-nats, 
and  apples. 


-XoitVber.-r-V^V*,  "Bplfi  bullae, .  walnuta,  buel-uuls, 
.  «ben)ii,ta,  niedl|Lr8>  peryicea,  and  grapes. 

J^MM^.— PearB,  apples,  niedlixs,  walnpt^,  /chesntita, 
services,  hazel-nuts,  and  grapes. 

^Mt^  and  Fegetfible4. 

/oKMsr^.— Spinach,  purple  and  white  broooli  sprontf,  cqle- 
.worta,  tavoys;  cabbage*,  celery,  endive,  diervi I,  sorrel,  psniley, 
beeta,  cwdoona,  tarragon,  turnips,  radish,  rape,  mustardr  cre*- 
eea,  lettuces,  hyasop,  pot-marjoram,  savory,  thyme,  cucumbers 
.  from  the  bot-hoi}sea,  mini,  akirrets,  acoraonera,  potatoes,  tar- 
.  nipt,  carrots,  parsnipa,  sage,  aaparagua,  Jeniaolem  artichokea, 
and  maahroonu. 

Febnary.^Colewmta,  u.vay»,  cabbages,  cresses,  lettmcea, 
cbard-beeta,  celery,  sorrel,  endive,  dietvil,  paraley ,  cardoona, 
puTjde  and  white  brocoU  sprouts,  raarjorani,  savory,  thjme, 
tanaej',  buraet,  mint,  tarragon,  turnips,,  radiilies,  rape  and 
muatard.  Also  may  be  had,  farced  radishes,  cucumbent.  kid- 
ney-beans, and  aq>ar«gue. 

March. — Spinach,  savoys,  cabbages,  borecole,  coleworts, 
ohalote,  garlic,  anions,  Jerusalem  artichokes,  parsnips,  tjimipa, 
carrota,  muatard,  cresses,  cbivea,  lettuces,  mushrooms,  tansey, 
endive,  celery,  fennel,  parsley,  beets,  cardoons,  foroooli,  kidney- 

-  beans,     cucumbers,     hyssop,    pot-marjoram,    winter   savory, 
thyme,  bumet,  mint,  tarragon,  turnips,  rape,  and  radishes. 

April. — Brocoti  sprouts,  colewprts,  chervil,  parsley,  fennel, 
Bpinacb,  radiahea,  tarragon,  bumet,  sorrel,  endive,  celery, 
young  onions,  lettuces,  thyme,  and  all  sorts.of  aalada  and  pot- 

-  h^bs. 

.  Afa^.— Spinach,  artichokes,  cauliflowers,    early  cabbages, 

radishes,   turnips,    carrots,    early  potatoes,    parslane,    sorrel, 

thyme,   mustard,    cresses,    lettuces,    fennel,    purslane,    mint, 

balm,  cucumber*,  tarragon,  aaparagns,    kidney-beans,  beans, 

;  peas,  and  all  sorts  of  junall  salad«  and  sayoury  berbs. 

June.— Peas,  .beans,  onions,  radit^s,  parsnips,  potatoes, 
.   tumips,  cauliflowers,  purslane,  paraley,  spinach,  lettuces,  cu. 
numbers,  .azticliokes,   l^iijaey.'^^^s,,  fisparagus,  rape,  cresses, 
thyme,  and  all  swt*  of  small:  ^lada  and  pgt-h^ba. 

Jmig. — Cauliflowers,  mushrooma,  salsify,  Bcorzoneni,  ro- 
cambole, garlic,  onions,  radishes,  potatoes,   turnips,  carrots, 


cresses,  lettuce,  purslAne,  sorrel,  chervil,  finocdiia,  endive, 
celery,  artichokes,  sprouts,  cabbages,  kidney-beans,  beans, 
peas,  mint,  balm,  thyme,  and  all  sorts  of  small  salads  and 
pot- herbs. 

■^■^-Mft.— Badishes,  potatoes,  turnips,  carrots,  peas,  salsify, 
scorzonera,  sbalots,  garlic,  onions,  endive,  celery,  beets, 
sprouts,  cauliflowers,  cabbages,  artichokes,  mushTooms,  beans, 
kidney -beans,  lettuce,  finochia,  parsley,  marjoram,  savory, 
thyme,  and  all  sorts  of  small  salads  and  sweet  herbs. 

SepUnbcr.— Beans,  peas,  salsify,  scorzonera,  garlic,  leeks, 
onions,  shalots,  potatoes,  turnips,  carrots,  parsley,  celery, 
endive,  cardoons,  cauliflowers,  sprouts,  cabbages,  artiditAes, 
mushrooms,  kidney- beans,  finochia,  chervil,  sorrel,  beets, 
lettuces,  and  all  sorts  of  small  salads  and  soup-herbs. 

October. — Salsify,  skirrets,  potatoes,  turnips,  parsnips, 
carrots,  artichokes,  cauliflowers,  sprouts,  cabbages,  finocbis, 
chervil,  cardoons,  endive,  celery,  rocambole,  garlic,  shalots, 
leeks,  scorzonera,  chard-beets,  thyme,  savory,  lettuce,  and 
all  sorts  of  young  salads  and  pot-herbs. 

Nimember. — Rocambale,  shalots,  leehs,  onions,  scoraonera, 
salsify,  skirrets,  potatoes,  parsnips,  turnips,  carrots,  parsley, 
cardoons,  chard-beets,  spinach,  coleworts,  sprouts,  savoys, 
caoUflowers,  cabbages,  Jerusalem  artichokes,  cresses,  endive, 
chervil,  lettuces,  and  all  sorts  of  small  salads  and  pot- 
herbs. 

Dtcember. — Turnips,  parsnips,  carrots,  purple  and  while 
brocoM,  savoys,  cabbages,  shalots,  onions,  leeks,  salsify,  scor- 
■onera,  skirrets,  potatoes,  parsley,  spinach,  beets,  endive, 
celery,  rocambole,  garlic,  forced  asparagus,  cardoons,  cres- 
ses, lettuces,  thyme,  and  all  sorts  of  small  salads  and  pot- 
herbs. 

FAHILY  DINNERS. 

As  we  have  given  engravings  of  the  mode  of  seMfag  oat  a 
Family  Dinner  for  each  month  in  the  year,  it  will  not  be 
necessary' to  repeat  these  diiectioqa.  The  following  roetbod 
of  placing  di»ht»  on  a  large  table,  and  which  may  be  vsmd 
at  pleasure,  includes  every  thing  worthy  of  notice  en  this 
subject. 


"r 


Fork       •' 


^^I'UU/iUy' 


Vftnitttmr 


ifjijj      ((RoastTiirhr^^ 


i 


'J 


v 


Q  /rau^c) 


.^^s, 

It  foil's    Jg 

0 

^B*^ 

% 

<d^p 

o 

^< 

1^  Mutton    J 

0 

,^p% 

^Salnwnjk 

^^k, 

0 

)  ^*H^ 

% 

■  ftiffrf «rA  or  Zfon&J 

,0 

- 

J 


0 


•«»:^ 


.S2Jia-e}m>f4^ 


«  ' 


Oc/e/r  i:^ 


BILLS  OF  FAKJB»  FAMILY  DINNERS,  &C. 


549 


Large  Tahh  covered.    \r 

■ 

Fish. 

• 

Fniit  Tart. 

One  Turkey,  or 
Two  Poults. 

• 

Blamange. 

lianioo. 
Mash  Tuniips, 

Mock  Turtle  Soup. 
Jerusalem  Artichokes 

* 

Sweetbreads 
larded. 
Stewed 

Carrots  thick 

fricasseed. 

Spinach. 

round. 

Crayfish. 
Ham  braised. 

Savoy  Cake. 

Macaroni  Pudding. 
Trifle. 

Dried  Salmon 
in  papers. 

Chickens. 

Casserole  of  Rice 
with  Giblets. 

French  Pie. 

Picked  Crab. 

Sea  Kale. 

Stewed  Celery. 
Apple  Pie  and  Custard. 

Young  Sprouts. 

Fricandeau. 
Jelly  Form. 

Rich  Whil«  Soap. 

* 

Ox  RunqM,  and 
Spanish  unions. 

Cheesecakes. 

Fish. 

/: 

(RewMve^Venisan,  or  Lain  of  Veal.) 

OKNERAL  REMARKS  ON  DINNERS. 


Things  used  at  first  Courses, 

Various  Sdttps.  Fish  dressed  many  ways.  Turtle.  Mock 
Turtle.  Boiled  Meats  and  stewed.  Tongue,  Ham.  Bacon. 
Chawls  of  Bacon,  Turkey  and  Fowls,  chiefly  boiled.  Rump, 
Sirloin,  and  Ribs  of  Beef  roasted.  Leg,  Saddle,  and  other 
roast  Mutton.  Roast  Fillet,  Loin,  Nedc«  Breast,  and  Shoulder 
of  Veal.  Legof  Laii4»«  Loin.  li«i«-quarter.  Chine.  Lamb's 
Head  and  Mince.  Muttcm  stufied  and  roasted.  Steaks,  van- 
ously  prepared.  Ragouts  and  Fdfeassees.  Meat  Pies  raised, 
and  in  Dishes.  Patties  of  Meat,  Fish,  and  Fowl.  Stewed 
Pigeone.     Venieon.     Leg  of  Pork^  Chine,  Loin,  Spare-rib. 


Rabbits.  Hare.  PuddingB,' boiladAqd  baked.  V^etibln, 
boiled  and  stewed.  Calf's  ^wd,  different  ways.  r%'s  Feet 
and  Ears,  different  viays.  .  In. large  dinners,  two  Soups  and 
two  dishes  of  Fish. 

Artickt  uted  for  atcond  Counet. 
Birds :  and  Game  of  all  sorts.  Shell-fish,  cold  and  potted. 
Collared  and  potted  Fish.  Pickled  ditto.  Po tied  Birds.  Ribt 
of' Lamb  roasted.  Brawn.  Vegetables  9tew«d  ortnMUce. 
French  Beans.  Peas.  Asparagus.  Cauliflower.  Fricassee. 
Pickled  Oysters.  Spinach,  aqd  Vtichohe-bottoms.  Slewed 
Celery.  Sea  Kale.  Fruit  Tarts.  Preserved  Fruit  Tarts. 
Pippins  stewed.  Cheesecakes,  various  sorts.  Sweet  Dishes; 
such  as  Creams,  Jellies,  and  all  the  finer  sorts  of  Puddings, 
Mince  Pies,  &c.  OmeLet.  Macaroni.  Oysters  in  Scalli^, 
stewed  or  pickled. 

Having  thus  named  the  sorts  of  things  i)sed  (or  the  two 
courses,  the  reader  will  think  of  xoany  others.  For  removes  of 
Soup  and  Fish,  one  or  two  joints  of  Meat  or  Fowl  are  secred; 
and  for  one  small  course,  tlie  article*  suited  to  tbe  second  inust 
makt  a  part.  Where  Vegetables  and  Fowls,  Sec.  are  twice 
dieued,  tbey  add  to  tbe  appearance  of  the  table  tbe  first  time ; 
three  sweet  things  may  fonn, tbe  rOMond  appearance  without 
.1.  greats'  ex^nse. 

In  some  houses,  one  dtBh'';at  a  time  is  sent  up  with  tbe 
vc^^etabtesi  or. sauces  |>raper;  t9  it,..snd  tbis  in.  succession  hot 
and  hot  In  others,  a  course  of  Soup  and  Fisb  ;  then  Meslt 
and  boiled  Fowls,  TuUiey,  &c.  -  Made  Dishes  and  Game 
follow  ;  and  lastly.  Sweet  Dishes  :  but  these  are  not  the  com- 
mon modes. 

It  is  worthjr  obMrrationhere,  tbat  cooamon  cookado  not 
.'think  of  tending  .up  such  articles  as  are  in  the  bouse^,  vnless 
.-ordered;  though,  by^  so,  doing,  Ae.additiou  of  a  ooltoed  .or 
-.  pickled. thing,.  Mme'Fritters,  frted- .Patties,  or  quick-llUKle 
Dumplings,  would  be  uieful.wbeQithNv.bappen  to^.be  Mi> 
'  drotol  wnitors ;  and  -at.  Jill  ^mes  it  ia  right  to  better  .tbe 
-  appearance  of.Cbe.tablfl.ntiier^tbaDletVthinga  qwil, below,  by 
.;  wbich  tbe  expence  of  ftfaisily.  iajBore  iucreaied.  than  can  be 
:  ftMly  imagined.  •  .Vegetables  are  put  on  tbe  sidettableiat.Iatg* 
.  dinjier^  aiilihewiaft causes,  and  soranta  bring' then  .round; 


©ESSEKT  won  WIPTTMIB. 


I'f'vrJK)  (|t  ■«•*« 


J>TB3aEK.T  "iPOK  SUMMiEK. 


BILLS  OF  FASIB,  FAMILY   DINNERS,  &C.  561 


bnt'idaK  ineonTeiiliMicesatteild  this  pfan ;  and  when  there  are 
not  rhaaj  ta  yirmt,  dtbf*  is  occaaiooed,  besides  •ihat  by  auk  ward** " 
ncssthe  do^es  of  the  company  may  be-  spoiled^     If  the  taUei' 
i»  aPa  de^sifle,  the  artioleS'BUiMled  to  will  iiofe-£ll  it  t6o  mnctirf. 

SUPPKRS. 

Hot  suppers  are  not  much  in  use  where  people- dine  very 
late.  When  required,  the  top  and  bottom,  or  either,  may  be 
Game.  Fowls*  Rabbit.  Boiled  Fish,  such  as  Soles,  or  M ac- 
karel.  Oysters  stewed  or  scalloped.  French  Beans.  Cauli- 
flower, or  Jerusalem  Artichokes,  in  white  Sauce.  Brocoli  with 
Eggs.  Stewed  Spinach  and  ditto.  Sweetbreads.  Small  Birds. 
Mudirooms.  ■  Potatoes;  Scallop,  &c.  Cutlets.  Roast  Onions. 
Sahnagundi.  Buttered  Eggs  on  Toast.  Cold  Neat's  Tongue. 
Ham.  Collared  Things.  Hunter *s  Beef  sliced.  Rusks 
battered,  with  Anchovies  on.  Grated  hung  Beef  with  butter, 
with  or  without  Rusks.  Grated  Cheese  round,  and  Butter 
dressed  in  the  middle  of  a  plate.  Radishes  ditto.  Custards  in 
glasses  with  Sippets.  Oysters  cold  or  pickled.  Potted  Meats. 
Fish.  Birds.  Cheese,  &c.  Good  plain  Cake  sliced.  Pies 
of  Birds  or  Fruit  Crabs«  Lobsters.  Prawns.  Crayfish. 
Fruits.  A  Sandwich  set  with  any  of  the  above  articles, 
placed  a  little  distance  from  each  other,  on  .the  table,  looks 
well  without  the  tray,  if  preferred. 

The  lighter  the  things,  the  better  they  appear,  and  glas8> 
inlemrixed  has  the  best  effect.  Jellies,  different  coloured 
things,,  and  flowers,  add  to  the  beauty  of  the  table.  An 
elegant  supper  may  be  served  at  a  small  expence  by  those 
who  Imow  how  to  make  trifles  that  are  in  the  house  form 
the  greatest  part  of  the  meal. 

DESSERTS. 

The  small  variety  of  different  dishes  which  come  und<^ 
this  head,  allows  but  little  scope  in  point  of  change,  and  re- 
quires not  so  much  head-piece  as  taste  ;  the  great  art  consisting 
principally  in  laying  out  a  table  with  a  skilful  fancy,  of  intro- 
ducing the  same  articles  in  different  directions,  so  as  to  please 
the  eye,  and  give  that  variegated  appearance  to  the  whole,  as 
would,  at  first  sight,  lead  the  guest  to  imagine  a  greater  muU 
tiplidtf  of  dainties  than  really  existed. 


In  seasoiu,  when  fruit  cannot  be  procured  in  great  vtriety, 
the  bill  of  fare  may  be  greatly  and  elegantly  extended,  by  a 
jndicioua  Beleetion  of  articles  of  confectionary  and  aweetoiate. 
occasionally  intcxsperted,  not  too-  ckMriy  or  profiiaely  intro* 
duced,  but  with  a  tasty  sparingneaa,  which  will  assist  even  tio 
give  effect  to  the  whole,  in  the  absence  of  more  deurable  plates 
of  natural  productions. 

niRECTtONB  POn  PLACING  DISHES  ON  THE  TABLE. 

Soup,  broth,  or  fish,  ahould  always  be  set  at  the  head  of 
the  table ;  if  none  of  these,  a  boiled  diah  goes  to  the  head ; 
where  there  is  both  boiled  and  roasted. 

If  but  one  principal  dish,  it  goes  to  the  head  of  the  table. 

If  three,  the  principal  one  to  the  head,  and  the  two  small- 
est to  stand  oppoute  each  other,  near  the  foot. 

If  four,  the  biggest  to  the  Head,  and  the  next  bluest  to 
the  foot,  and  the  two  smallest  dishes  on  the  sides. 

If  Eve,  you  are  to  put  the  smallest  in  the  middle,  the  other 
four  opposite. 

If  six,  you  are  to  put  the  top  and  bottom  as  before,  the 
two  small  ones  opposite  for  side  dishes. 

If  seven,  put  three  dishes  down  the  middle  of  the  table,  and 
four  others  opposite  to  each  other  round  the  centre  dish. 

If  eight,  put  four  dishes  down  the  middle,  and  the  remdo- 
ing  four  two  on  each  side,  at  equal  distances. 

If  nine  dishes,  put  them  in  three  equal  lines,  oburving  to 
put  the  proper  dishes  at  the  head  and  bottom  of  the  table. 

If  ten  dishes,  put  four  down  the  centre,  one  at  each  comer, 
and  one  on  each  side,  opposite  to  the  vacancy  between  tbe  two 
central  dishes ;  or  four  down  the  middle,  and  three  on  eadi 
side;  each  opposite  to  the  vacancy  of  the  middle  dishes. 

If  twelve  dishes,  place  them  in  three  rows  of  four  each  ;  or 
BIX  down  the  middle,  and  three  at  equal  distances  on  each  side. 

Nole.~l£  more  than  tbe  above  number  of  dishes  are  re- 
quired, the  manner  of  laying  them  on  the  table  must  in  a  great 
measure  depend  on  tbe  taste  of  the  dresser. 


llnYiUlK\ 


m 


III 


i;"''fr' 


CUUM ABY  POISON4.  643 


CULINARY  POISONS. 

Observations  on  Cu^naty  Poisons. 

JL  HOUGH  we  have  already^  in  different  parts  of  this  work, 
occasionally  reminded  the  housekeeper  and  cook  of  the  fatal 
consequences  attending  coppers  and  sauce-pans  not  being  pro- 
perly tinned,  yet  we  shall  here  enter  on  a  particular  inquiry 
into  the  nature  and  property  of  culinary  poisons,  for  the  infor- 
mation and  satisfaction  of  those  who  may  wish  to  have  a  more 
perfect  knowledge  of  such  important  matters. 

By  the  use  of  copper  vessels  for  dressing  our  food,  we  are 
daily  exposed  to  the  danger  of  poison ;  and  even  the  very  air 
of  a  kitchen,  abounding  with  oleaginous  and  saline  particles, 
disposes  those  vessels  to  solution  before  they  are  used.  Cop- 
per, when  handled,  yields  au  offensive  smell ;  and,  if  touched 
with  the  tongue,  has  a  sharp  pungent  taste,  and  even  excites 
a  nausea.  Verdigrease  is  nothing  but  a  solution  of  this  metal 
by  vegetable  acids ;  and  it  is  well  known,  that  a  very,  small 
quantity  of  this  solution  will  produce  colics,  vomitings,  into- 
lerable thirst,  universal  convulsions,  and  other  dangerous 
symptoms.  If  these  effects,  and  the  prodigious  divisibility  pf 
this  metal,  bp  considered,  there  can  be  no  doubt  of  its  being 
a  violent  and  subtle  poison.  Water,  by  standing  some  time 
in  a  copper  yessel,  becomes  impregnated  with  verdigrease,  as 
may  be  demonstrated  by  throwing  into  it  a  small  quantity  of 
any  volatile  alkali,  which  will  immediately  tinge  it  with  a  paler 
or  deeper  blue,  in  proportion  to  the  rust  contained  in  the 
water.  Vinegar,  apple-sauce,  greens,  oil,  grease,  butter,  and 
.almost  every  other  kind  of  food,  will  extract  the  verdigrease 
in  a  great  degree.  Some  people  imagine,  that  the  ill  effects  of 
copper  are  prevented  by  its  being  tinned,  which  indeed  is  the 
only  preventative  in  that  case ;  but  the  tin,  which  adheres  to 
the  copper,  is  so  extremely  thin,  that  it  is  soon  penetrated  by 
the  vordigreaae,  which  insinuates  itself  through  the  pores  of 
that  metal,  and  appears  green  upon  the  surface. 

20  4  b 


554  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

Verdigrease  is  one  of  the  most  violent  poisons  in  nature; 
and  yet|  rather  than  quit  an  old  custom,  the  greater  part  of 
mankind  are  content  to  swallow  some  of  this    poison  everj 
day.     Our  food  receives  its  quantity  of  poison  in  the  kitchen, 
by  the  use  of  copper  pans  and  dishes ;  the  brewer  mingles 
poison  in  your  beer,  by  boiling  it  in  copper ;  salt  is  distributed 
to  the  people. from  copper  scales  covered  with  verdigresse ; 
our  pickles  are  rendered  green  by  infusion  of  copper;  the 
pastry-cook  bakes  our  tarts  in  copper  pattepans;  but  con- 
fections and  syrups  have  greater  powers  of  destruction,  as 
they  are  set  over  a  fire  in  copper  vessels  which  have  not  been 
tinned,  and  the  verdigrease  is  plentifully  extracted  by  the  aci- 
dity of  the  composition.     After  all,  though  we  do  not  swallow 
death  in  a  single  dose,  yet  it  is  certain  that  a  quantity  of  poison, 
however  small,  which  is  repeated  with  every  meal,  must  pro- 
duce more  fatal  effects  than  is  generally  believed. 

Bell-metal  kettles  are  frequently  used  in  boiling  cucumbers 
for  pickling,  in  order  to  make  them  green ;  but  this  is  a  prac* 
tice  as  absurd  as  it  is  dangerous.  If  the  cucumbers  acquire 
any  additional  greenness  by  the  use  of  these  kettles^  they  can 
only  derive  it  from  the  copper,  of  which  they  are  made;  and 
\h\s  very  reason  ought  to  be  sufficient  to  overturn  so  dangerous 
a  practice. 

According  to  some  writers,  bell-metal  is  a  composition  of 
tin  and  copper,  or  pewter  and  copper,  in  the  proportion  of 
twenty  pounds  of  pewter,  or  twenty-three  pounds  of  tin,  to 
one  hundred  weight  of  copper.  According  to  others,  this 
metal  is  made  in  the  proportion  of  one  thousand  pounds  (^ 
copper  to  two  or  three  hundred  pounds  of  tin^  and  one  hun- 
dred and  fifty  pounds  of  brass.  Spoons  and^  other  kitdien 
utensils  are  frequently  made  of  a  mixed  metal,  odled  alchemy, 
or,  as  it  is  vulgarly  pronounced,  ochimy.  The  rust  of  this 
metal,  as  well  as  that  of  the  former,  is  highly  penucious. 

The  author  of  a  tract  entitled,  Serious  Reflections  attend- 
ing the  Use  of  Copper  Vessels,  published  in  London  in  1755, 
asserts,  that  the  great  frequency  of  palsies,  apoplexies,  mad- 
ness, and  all  the  frightful  train  of  nervous  disorders  which 
suddenly  attack  us,  without  our  being  able  to  account  for  ^ 
cause,  or  which  gradually  weaken  our  vital  faculties,  are  the 
pernicious  effects  of  this  poisonous  matter,  taken  into  the 


CULINARY  POISONS.  656 

body  insfltnsibl  J  with  onr  victuals,  and  thereby  intermixed  with 
our  blood  and  juices. 

However  this  may  be,  certain  it  is,  that  there  have  been  in- 
iramerable  instances  of  the  pemicious'oonsequences  of  eating 
food  dressed  in  copper  vessels  not  sufficiently  cleaned  from 
this  rust.  On  this  account  the  senate  of  Sweden,  about  the 
year  1755,  prohibited  copper  vessels,  and  ordered  that  no  ves« 
aelsy  except  such  as  were  made  of  iron,  should  be  used  in  their. 
fleets  and  armies.  But  if  copper  vessels  must  be  still  conti- 
nued, every  cook  and  good  housewife  should  be  particularly 
careful  in  keeping  them  dean  and  well  tinned,  and  should  suf- 
fer ^nothing  to  remain  in  them  longer  than  is  absolutely  neces- 
sary for  the  purposes  of  cookery. 

Lead  is  a  metal  easily  corroded,  especially  by  the  warm 
steams  of  acids,  such  as  vinegar,  cider,  lemon-juice,  Rhenish 
-wine^  &c.  and  this  solution,  or  salt  of  lead,  is  a  slow  and  in- 
sidyioas,  though  certain  poison.    The  glazing  of  all  our  com- 
vaon  brown  pottery  ware  is  either  lead  or  lead  ore ;  if  black,  it 
18  a  lead  ore,  with  a  small  proportion  of  manganese,  which  is  a 
species  of  iron  ore ;  if  yellow,  the  gluing  is  lead  ore,  and  ap- 
pears yellowish  by  having  some  pipe  or  white  clay  under  it. 
The  colour  Of  the  common  pottery  ware  is  red,  as.  the  vessels 
are  made  of  the  same  clay  as  common  bricks.    These  vessels 
are  so  porous^  that  they  are  penetrated  by  all  salts,  acid  or  alka- 
line, and  are  unfit  for  retaining  any  saline  substances.      They 
are  improper,  though  too  often  used,  for  preserving  sour  fruits 
or  pickles.    .  The  glazing  of  such  vessels  is  corroded  by  the 
vinegar :  for,  upon  evaporating  the  liquor,  a  quantity  of  the 
salt  of  lead  will  be  found  at  the  bottom.    A  sure  way  of  judg- 
ing  whether  the  vinegar  or  other  acid  have  dissolved  part  of 
the  glazing,  is  by  their  becoming  vapid,  or  losing  their  sharp- 
ness, and  acquiring  a  sweetish  taste  by  standing  in  them  for 
some  time;  in  which  case  the  contents  must  be  thrown  away  as 
pernicious. 

The  substance  of  the  pottery  ware,  commonly  called  Delft, 
the  best  being  made  at  Delft  in  Holland,  is  a  whitish  clay 
when  baked,  and  soft,  as  not  having  endured  a  great  heat  in 
baking.  The  glazing  is  a  composition  of  calcined  lead,  cal- 
cined tin,  sand,  some  coarse  alkaline  salt,  and  sandiver ;  which 
being  run  into  a  white  glass,  the  white  colour  being  owing  to 


656  DOMESTIC  CdOKBRT. 

the  tin^  is  afterwards  ground  in  a  mill,  then  mixed  with  wrater^ 
and  the  vessels,  after  being  baked  in  the  ftimaoe,  are  dipped 
into  it,  and  put  again  into  the  furnace ;  bjr  which  means,  with 
a  small  degree  of  heat,  tbe  white  glass  runs  upon  the  veaaek. 
This  glazing  is  exceedingly  soft,  and  easily  cracks.  What 
effects  acids  will  have  upon  it,  the  writer  of  thes^  obser- 
vations cannot  say ;  but  they  seem  to  be  improper  for  in- 
spissating the  juice  of  lemons^  oranges,  or  any  other  add 
fruits. 

The  most  proper  vessels  for  these  purposes  are  porcelain  or 
China  ware,  the  substances  of  them  being  of  so  dose  a  texture, 
that  no  valine  or  ether  liquor  can  penetrate  them;  Tlie  glazings 
which  is  likewise  made  of  the  substance  of  the  china,  is  so  firm 
and  closej  that  n^  salt  or  saline  substance  can  have  the  least 
effect  upon  it.  It  must,  however,  be  observed^  that  this  re- 
mark is  applicable  only  to  the  porcelain  made  in  China ;  for  some 
species  of  the  European  manufactory  are  certainly  glaaed  widi 
a  fine  glass  of  lead,  &c. 

The  stone  ware,  commonly  called  Staffordshire  ware^  is  the 
next  to  china.  The  substance  of  these  vessels  is  a  composi- 
tion of  black  flint,  and  a  strong  day,  that  bakes  white.  Their 
outsides  are  glazed,  by  throwing  into  the  furnace,  when  well 
heated,  common  or  sea  salt  decripitated,  the  steam  or  acid  of 
which  flying  among  the  vessels,  vitrifies  the  outsides  of  them, 
and  gives  them  the  glazing.  This  st6ne  ware  does  not  appear 
to  be  injured  or  affected  by  any  kinds  df  salts,  either  add  or 
alkaline,  or  by  any  liquors,  hot  or  cold.  These  are  tiieiefbre 
extremely  proper  for  all  common  u^es ;  but  th^  require  a  ckre^ 
f  ul  management)  as  they  are  more  apt  to  Crack  with  any  sudden 
heat,  than  china. 

Having  thus  considered  the  nature  of  copper  and  earthen 
utensils  for  the  use  of  the  kitchen,  we  shall  proceed  to  mskt 
some  few  remarks  on  the  poisonous  quaUties  of  muthrobms^ 
hemlock,  and  laurel. 

Mushrooms  have  been  long  used  in  sauces,  in  catiup,  and 
other  forms  of  cookery ;  they  were  highly  esteemed  by  the 
Romans,  as  they  are  at  present  by  the  French,  Italians,  and 
other  nations.  Pliny  exdaims  against  the  luxury  of  his 
countrymen  in  thisartide,  wonders  what  extraordinary  pleasure 
there  can  be  in  eating  such  dangerous  food.    The  ancient 


CULINARY  POISONS.  66? 

wtitm  on  thd  Materia  Medica  seem  to  agre#,  tbat  mushrooms 
•re  in  general  unwholesome ;  and  the  moderns,  Lemery,  Allen^ 
Qwcffnry^  Boerhaave,  Linndbus,  and  others;  concur  In  the 
sante  opinion.  There  are  nnmerotkl  instances  tm  record  of 
th^r  fatal  effects,  and  almost  all  authors  agree  that  they  are 
ftangfat  with  poison. 

The  common  eseiilent  kinds,  if  eaten  too  finely,  ft«quently 
firing  on  heart^boms,  sicknesses,  vomitings,  dianhosas,  dy* 
senteries,  and  other  dangerous  symptoms.  It  is  therefore  to 
be  wished,  that  they  were  banished  from  the  table ;  but,  if  th« 
palate  must  be  indulged  in  these  treacherous  gratifications,  or> 
as  SeUjeca. calls  them,  this  voluptuous  poison,  it  is  necessary 
that  those  who  are  employed  in  collecting  them  should  be 
extremely  cautious,  lest  they  should  collect  such  as  are  abso- 
lutely pernicious ;  which,  considering  to  whose  cafe  thsi  is 
gtenerally  committ^,  may,  and  undoubtedly  frequently  has 
happened.  The  eatable  mushrooms  at  first  appear  of  a  round* 
ish  form,  like  a  button ;  the  upper  part  and  the  stalk  are  V«lpy 
Ukin ;  the  under  part  is  of  a  livid  flesh  colour ;  but  the  fleshy 
part,  when  broken,  is  very  white.  When  these  toe  sufier^ 
to  remain  undisturbed,  they  will  grow  to  a  large  si^e^  and  ek-^ 
pand  themselves  almost  to  a  flatness,  and  the  r^  part  under-* 
neiith  will  change  to  a  dark  colour. 

Small  Hen^^ck,  though  it  seems  not  to  be  of  so  virulent  a 
nature  as  the  larger  hemlock,  yet  Boerhaave  places  it  among 
the  v^etable  poisons,  in  his  Institutes ;  atid  iii  his  History  of 
Plants  he  produces  an  instance  of  its  pernicious  efiects.  It  is 
dierefore  necessary  to  guard  against  it,  in  collecting  heii^s  fot 
salads  and  other  purposes.  Attend  therefore  to  the  ^oUowing 
description: 

The  first  leaves  are  divided  into  numerous  small  parts, 
which  are  of  a  pale  green,  oval,  pointed,  and  deeply  indent- 
ed. The  stalk  is  slender,  upright,  round,  striated,  and  about 
a  yard  high.  The  flowers  are  white  growing  at  the  tops 
of  the  branches  in  little  umbels.  It  is  an  annual  plant,  com- 
mon in  orchards  and  kitchen  gardens,  and  flowers  in  June 
and  July.  This  plant  has  been  often  mistaken  for  parsley,  and 
from  thence  it  has  received  the  name  of  fool's  parsley. 

The  water  distilled  from  the  leaves  of  the  common  laurel 
has  been  frequently  mixed  with  brandy,  and  other  spirituous 


568  DOMESTIC  COORBRT. 

liquors,  in  order  to  give  them  the  flayoiir  of  ratafia ;  and  the 
leaves  are  often  used  in  cookery,  to ,  oommunicate  the  same 
kind  of  taste  to  creams,  custards,  puddings,  and  some  sorts 
of  sweetmeats.  But  in  the  year  1728,  an  account  of  two 
women  dying  suddenly  in  Dublin,  after  drinking  some  of  the 
common  distilled  laurel  water,  gave  rise  to  several  ezperi« 
ments,  made  upon  dogs,  with  the  distilled  water,  and  with  the 
infusion  of  the  leaves  of  the  common  laurel,  communicated 
by  Dr.  Madden,  Physician  at  Dublin,  to  the  Royal  Society 
in  London ;  and  afterwards  repieated,  in  the  year  1731,  and 
confirmed  by  Dr.  Mortimer,  by  which  it  apptered,  that  both 
the  water  and  the  infusion  brought  on  convulsions^  I^lsy*  ^'^ 
death. 

The  laurel  of  the  ancients,  or  the  bm^,  is,  on  the  contrary, 
of  a  salutary  nature,  and  of  use  in  several  disorders ;  but 
the  common  laurel  is  a  plant  of  a  very  destructive  kind,  and, 
taken  in  a  large  quantity,  is  a  most  formidable  poison.  How* 
ever,  if  it  be  administered  with  proper  caution,  and  in  small 
proportion,  the  leaves  of  the  plant  are  generally  thought 
to  be  innocent;  and,  therefore,  for  kitchen  purposes,  9b 
the  flavouring  of  custards,  and  such  like,  the  use,  in  guard- 
ed and  common  moderation,  may  be  continued  in  perfisct 
safety.  The  bitter  parts  .of  the  plants,  in  which  all  the 
noxious  properties  are  supposed  to  reside,  are  determined 
to  be  the  same  in  quality,  and  not  sensibly  different  in  d^^iee, 
from  the  the  bitter  almond,  or  &om  the  kernels  of  any  <^ 
the  stoned  fruits.  Linnseus  says,  that  in  Holland,  an  infusion 
of  this  kind  of  laurel  is  used  -in  the  practice  of  the  healing 
art  Miller  also  says,  that  laurel  leaves  are  perfectly  innocoit. 
A  nice  attention,  however,  is  certainly  necessary  in  the  use  of 
them. 


FAMILY  PHYSICIAN.  659 


FAMILY  PHYSICIAN. 


FOR 

PRESERVING  HEALTH  AND  BEAUTY. 


Beauty  is  ac  oApring  of  health,  but  health  is  frequenUy 
destroyed  by  neglect  or  ignorance.  The  greater  number  of 
our  ft8hionia>le  complaints  and  frailties  might  be  easily  prevent- 
ed; particularly  nervous  diseases,  and  those  affections  of  the 
skin  known  by  the  names  of  en^tions,  discolomrations,  efflo. 
rescences,  scorbutic  tainU,  flrc  How  the  desirable  event  may 
be  accomplished  we  shall  now  endeavour  to  point  out. 

Of  Bathing. 

Much  as  we  hear  and  speak  of  bathing,  and  of  the  great 
attention  at  present  paid  to  cleanliness,  the  greater  number  if 
not  the  whole  of  our  feshionable  complaints^  originate  from  the 
want  of  care  and  proper  management  of  the  skin.  Through 
unpardonable  n^lect  in  the  earlier  part  of  life,  especially  at 
the  age  of  adolescence,  the  surface  of  the  body  is  so  unnaturally 
enervated  by  constant  re]azati<m,  that  it  oppresses,  and  as  it 
were,  confines  our  mental  and  bodily  faculties ;  promotes  the 
general  disposition  towards  the  complaints  above  alluded  to  - 
and,  if  not  counteracted  in  time,  must  produce  consequences 
still  more  alarming  and  deplorable. 

We  often  hear  people  complain,  that  their  skin  is  uneam^:  a 
complaint  but  too  prevalent  among  those  who  give  themselves 
little  trouble  to  inquire  into  its  origin.— The  skin  unites  in 
itself  three  very  essential  functions.  It  is  the  organ  of  the 
most  extensive  and  useful  sense,  that  of  timch;  it  is  the  con- 
ductor  of  perspiration,   the  principal  means  which  natura 


690  BOMPSTIC  GOOKJ^]|Y. 

employs  to  purify  our  fluids ;  and  through  the  most  admirable 
cnrgaiiizationy  the  skin  is  enabled  to  absorb  certain  salutary 
parts  of  the  surrounding  atmosphere,  and  to  guard  us  against 
the  influence  of  others  of  an  injurious  tendency.  For  this  pur- 
pose innumerable  nerves  and  vessels  are  dispersed  throughout 
the  skin.  It  has  been  proved  by-  accurate  calculations  made 
by  the  scale,  that  a  healthy  individual  daily  and  insensibly  per- 
spires upwards  of  three  pounds  weight  of  superfluous  and  hurt- 
ful humours. 

Bathing,  whether  in  warm  or  cold  water^  produces  the  noost 
salutary  efiect  pn  the  absorbent  vessels ;  which  would  otherwise 
reconduct  the  impurities  of  the  skin  through  the  pores,  to  the 
no  small  injury  of  health.  To  those  in  a  perfect  state  of  vigour, 
the  frequent  use  of  the  bath  is  less  necessary  than  to  the  infirm ; 
as  the  healthy  possess  a  greater  power  to  resitt  impurities^  by 
means  of  their  unimpaired  perspiration,  the  elasticity  of  tbcir 
minute  vessels,  and  the  due  consistence  of  thair  chrculating 
fluids.  The  case  is  very  difl*erent  with  the  infirm,  the  delicate, 
and  the  i^;ed.  In  these,  the  skwness  of  circulation,  the  vis- 
cidity or  clamminess  of  their  fluids,  the  constant  efibrta  of 
nature  to  propel  the  impurities  towards  the  skin,  comlmie  to 
render  the  frequent  washing  of  their  bodies  an  essential  requi- 
site to  their  existence.  ^ 

Th0  trtfrii,  that  is,  the  tepid  or  lukewarm  balb,  being 
about  the  temperature  of  the  blood,  between  96  and  9B  deg. 
of  Fahrenheit,  has  usually  been  considered  as  apt  to  weakep 
and  relax  the  body;  but  this  is  certainly  an  iUtfidunded  notion. 
Tt  is  so  fiyr  from  relaxing  the  tone  of  the  solids,  that  we  may 
justly  consider  it  as  one  of  the  most  powerful  and  universal 
restoratives  we  are  acquainted  with.  Instead  of  heating  the 
body,  it  has  a  cooling  effect;  it  diminishes  the  quickness  of 
the  pulse,  and  reduces  it  in  a  greater  proportion,  according  as 
the  pulse  has  been  more  quick  or  unnatural,  and  according  to 
the  length  of  time  this  bath  is  continued.  Hence,  the  t^id 
baths  are  of  eminent  service  where  the  body  has  been  over- 
heated, from  whatever  cause,  whether  after  fatigue  from  tra- 
velling or  severe  bodily  exercise,  or  after  violent  exertion  and 
perturbation  of  mind;  as  they  allay  the  tempestuous  and  irre- 
gular movements  in  the  body,  and  of  conseqaence  strengthen 
the  system  in  the  strictest  sense«    By  their  softening*  moisten- 


Family  physician.  661 

rag,  and '  tumefying  power,  they  greatly  contribute  to  the  for* 
mation  and  growth  of  the.  body  of  young  persons.  Thus  they 
are  of  smgnlar  benefit  to  those,  in  whom  we  perceive  a  ten- 
dency to  arrive  too  early  -at  the  consistence  of  a  settled  age ; 
ao  that  the  warm  bath  is  particularly  adapted  to  prolong  the 
state  of  youth,  and  to  retard  for  some  time  the  approach  of 
£ull  growth.— This  effect  the  tepid  baths  produce  in  a  manner 
exactly  alike,  in  the  coldest  as  well  as  in  the  hottest  climates. 

Bathing  in  rivers,  as  well  as  in  the  sea,  is  effectual  for  every 
purpose  of  cleaning  the  body  ;  it  washes  away  impurities  from 
the  surface,  opens  the  cutaneous  vessels  for  a  due  perspiration, 
and  increases  the  actiVity  of  the  circulation  of  the  blood.  For 
these  reas<His,  it  cannot  be  too  much  recommended,  not  only  to 
the  infirm  and  debilitated,  under  certain  restrictions,  but  like- 
wise to  the  healthy.  The  apprehensioa  of  bad  consequences 
from  the  coldness  of  the  water  is  in  reality  ill-founded;  for; 
besides  that  it  produces  a  strengtheniAg  effect  by  its  astringent 
property,  the  cold  setisation  of  itself  is  not  easily  hurtful.  Tl^ 
aame  precaution,  however,  is  requisite  in  the  use  of  the  cold 
as  in  the  tepid  bath ;  for  after  .having  overheated  the  body; 
especially  in  the  hot  days  of  summer,  it  may  prove  instantly 
fiital,  by  indadng  a  state  of  apoplexy.  Hence  the  plethoric, 
or  such  as  are  of  full  habit,  the  asthmatic,  and  all  those  wha 
perceive  a  great  determination  of  the  blood  to  die  head,  should 
be  very  circumspect  in  the  use  of  it. 

The  best  method  of  cold  bathing  is  in  the  sea  or  a  river. 
Where,  from  necessity,  it  is  done  in*  the  houses  the  shower 
bath  is  i:ecommended,  for  which  a  proper  apparatus  is  to  be 
had  at  the  tin-smith's.  Where  -the  savlBi^  or  expence  is  an 
object,  it  may  be  effectually  supplied  by  the  fc^lowing  esxj 
expedient: — Fill  a  common  watering  pan  with  cold  water,  let 
the  patient  sit  down  undressed  upon  a  stool,  which  may  be 
placed  in  a  large  tub ;  and  let  the  hair,  if  not  cut  short,  be- 
spread over  the  shoulders  as  loosely  as  possible;  then  pour 
the  water  from  the  pan  over  the  patient's  head,  face,  neck, 
shoulders,  and  all  paru  of  the  body  progressively  down  to  the. 
feet,  till  the  whole  has  been  thoroughly  iketted.  Now  let  Hie 
patient  be  rubbed  dry,  and  ttice  gentle  exercise,  until  the  sen- 
sation of  the  cold  be  succeeded  by  a  gentle  glow  all  over  .the 
body.  When  we  first  resort  to  this  kind  of  bath  it  may  bo* 
20  4  c 


■■ 


M2  J^OMASTIC  COOKERY. 

used  gieiilly>  and  witb  water  having  some  degree  of  wumOi,  wo 
as  not  to  make  the  shock  too  greiat ;  bi(t  as  the  patiebt  become* 
accttstomed  to  it^  the  degree  of  told  nay  be  lacreased^  the 
water  may  be  allowed  to  fall  ftom-a  greater  height*  ond  the 
holes  in  the  pan  loay  be  made  hirger>  so  aa  td  make  die  Aofwet 
heavier.  A  large  sponge  may>  io  some  me^suiey.be  sulMlitiifeed 
for  a  watering  pan. 

.  The  aaial  or  cir  .kfUk  is  n  kte  inventionr  the. effects  ai 
which  havfs  not  yet  been  saQeiently.  aseerlaiiied.  £iqperience 
informs  os^  that  by  exposing  .&^  lAk^d  body-  for  a  dnrt  tame 
to  in  agreeable  1  cool,  nay,  to  a  ooU  air,  we  petoeire  efieets 
somewhat  sinlRiir  to  those  produced  by  the  cold  bath;  porli^ 
culatly  that  of  a  pleasant  sensation,  of  heat  diffused  orer  the 
whole,  body,  after  hoYing  again  dreased.  There  is  little  daagcc 
ot  eafching  cold  upon  this  oOcasion  i  for  in  a  pleto  wiiere  ww 
already  fed  a  cartain  degree  of  cold  In  our  usual  dveasy  the 
sensation  of  cold  will  ndt  be  much  increased,  if  we  undretb 
altogether.-  It  may  also  be  temavked,  that  with'  the  »Mr 
body  naked  we  baye  mudi  less  to  Upprebeoi  firom  the  effects  ai 
cold,  than  by  exposing  ov  keeping  one  part  of  it  less  covcved 
than  another. 

Frequent  cutting  the  hair  is  of  advantage  to  the  eyes,,  the 
ears,  and  to  the  whole  body.  So  the  daily  washing  of  the 
bead  with  cold  water  is  an  eiteellent  remedy  i^gmaat  periodioal 
headachs.  In  coryzas,  or  defloetioos-of  the  humoura  fran  the 
head,  in  weak  eyes  and  the  like,  the  shaving. of  thct  head  not 
rarely  affords  immediate  relief  ^  while,  at  the  saaoe.time  it 
opens  the  pores  and  promoter  perspiration.  '  It  is  altogether  a 
mistaken  idea,  that  Mure  isadfmg«r  of  fatrhii^  fold  from. 
Ae  practice  of  washing  the  head  <x  leaving  it  exposed  to  die 
free  air,  after  having  been  washed*  Those  who  condemn  the 
washing  <xt  the  l^ead  deserve  no  attention;  for  the  mine  fre- 
4|aently  the  surfiu^  is  cleabed  of  icurvy  and  scdy  impurities, 
Ae  more  easy  and  comfortable  we  feel.  The  oAener  the  hair 
ia  eot»  die  more  quieUy  it  grows  again ;  and  thie.easy  opera- 
tion supplies  the placeof  aconstant  blister  or  artificial  iasue* 

On  impr4mng  and  beaui^ing  the  JSHi;. . 

A  moderate  desire  to  improve  and  beailtify  the  surface  of 
die  body  is  fiff  flrom  bemg  a  fiivokms  pursuit. '  The desireof 


»    M*   miV««^«^KX^» 


iMaatjr,  when  imt  inordinate,  may  prove  the  souree  of  many 
n4>taou8  and.  laudable  {nirsniti,  and  it  may  be  greatly  intrtru- 
mental  to.  the  preienratioa  of  healtli.  This  desire  is  often 
pnnroed  by  methods,  not  the  most  proper;  and  because  we 
Imrenot  a  just  knowledge  of.  beauty,  we  make  many  valuable 
eaoaificeSy  nut  only  of  things  rektiBg  to  health,  but  sometunes 
of  iifierittelf.  Instances  are  not  uncomnum,  of  young  persons 
attempting  to  Ueacfa  their  shins,  aiid  beautify  their  persons, 
bj  aieoiding  a  free  air,  ufliing'  a  mildtand  weakening  diet^  lohig 
fasting,  long  sleepiiig,  warming  their  beds,' &c.  but,  alas!  the 
conseqoence  did  not  answer  their  expectation,— -they  lost  both 
health  and- bloom  I^^Eadng  chaUc,  liviDking  vinegar,  wearing 
camphorated  diarms,  and  •  similar  destraetive  means  have  been 
rasorled  to,  by  other  more  daring  adventurers,  but  with  no 
better  snooess.  Those  last  mentioned  may  be  called  the  aitfior 
cosaie^ief :  others*  of  a  more  formidable  nature  are  unquestion* 
ikbly 'tile- nuMt  deleterious  substances  we  are  acquainted  with. 
ilfsrOHry  and  lead,  manufiustured  in  varioas  forms,  are  uiihap- 
pily  too  common  ingredients  in  many  of  our  modem  Cosmetics, 
whether  they  consist  of  Idtions,  creams,  powders,  paints,  or 
eiDftments.  Lead,  in  particular,  if 'Once  introduced  into  the 
iqrslem,  thou^  in  the  emallest  proportions,  cannot  be  removed 
b^  art,  and  never  fiuh  to  produce  the  most .  deplorable  egrets  ; 
such  as  palsy,  contraction  and  convulsion  of  the  limbs,  total 
Umtoess,  /i^eaknesB,  accompanied  by  the  most  excruciating 
odic  pains,  and  the  like*  Besides  these  more  obvious  effects, 
Ae  -frequent  external  use  of  1yd  and  mercury,  as^  cosmetics, 
oecasions  jctamps  in  evei^  part  of  the  body,  faintings,  nervous 
Weakness,  mtarrhs,  tubercles  in  the  lun^and  intestines,  which 
dccur  together  or  separately,  according  to  the  different  ctrcum- 
atanoes^:  till  at  length  a<  consumption,  either  pulmonary  or 
heetic>  doaes  tke  dreadful  soene. 

Beauty  ofithe  skin,  the  subject  under  consideration  at 
present,  is  but  another  term  for  a  sound  and  healthy  skin ;— a 
pBve  mirror  of  the  harmony  of  the  internal  parts  with  their 
aurfikoe,  or,  if  1  may  be  allowed  the  expression,  '  it  is  visible 
health.' 

The.  three  great  and  really  effectual  subHituiesfar  cosmetics 
arethefqlluwing:  Fimt,  due  attention  to  insensible  perspird^ 
Hon;  ^Sk  important  process  this,   by  which  nature,  if  duly 


^64  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

assisted,  will  Dot  tail  to  espel  all  acrimonions  or  ttBeles»particle«. 
The  next  circumstance  to  be  attended  to^  is  the  purity  of  tke 
fluids ;  this  depends  equaUy  on  a  fre^  penpiration,  and  oa  a 
vigorous  state  of  digestion.  The  third  requisite  to  a  har, 
healthful  complexion,  is  an  uniform  distribution  of  the  fluids  ; 
in  other  words,  a  free  and  unrestrained  citcutaiian  of  the  blood  ; 
as  the  very  purest  fluids,  when  pspfusely  determined  to  the 
face,  are  productive  of  disagreeable  consequences,  such  aa  ud« 
natural  redness,  flushings,  tumid  appearances,  &c.  of  which 
ladies  of  a  sedentary  life  are  so  apt  to  complain. 

To  these  three  general  observations  it  may  be  necessary  to 
subjoin  a  few  particular  injunctions,  relative  to  the  improve- 
ment of  the  skin^  as  connected  with  a  state  of  good  health. — 
Carefully  avoid  all  immoderate  and  violent  dancing,  as  the 
sudden  alternations  of  heat  and  cold,  not  only  impair  the  goieral 
state  of  the  skin,  but  are  likewise  of  the  greatest  detriment  to 
beauty.     Abstain  from  the  too  firequent  and  copious  use  of 
heating  liquors  of  every  kind,  particularly  pundi  and  strong 
wines.     Avoid,  farther,  every  excess  in  hot  drinks,  as  oofiee, 
chocolate,  tea,  particularly  the  lasC.     Tea  taken  hot,  and  in 
inunoderate  quantities,  not  only  has  a  tendency  to  weaken  the 
organs  of  digestion,  but  it  causes  fluctuations  and  congestions 
in  the  humours  of  the  face,  and  frequently  brings  on  a  degree 
of  debilitating  perspiration. 

To  such  females  as  are  determined  to  make  use  of  cosmUies^ 
instead  of  attending  to  the  more  effectual  means  to  preserve  the 
bloom  of  the  skin,  it  may  be  of  service  to  point  out  one  or 
two  external  applications,  in  order  to  prevent  them  flrom 
resorting  to  the  dax^rous  and  destructive  contrivances  of 
quacks.-TAccording  to  Dr.  Withering,  a  physician  of  great 
eminence  at  Birmingham,  an  infusion  of  horse-radish  in  milk, 
makes  one  of  the  safest  and  best  cosmetics.  Another  prepaia* 
tion  of  clearing  the  skin  of  pimples  and  recent  en^tumk,  if 
assisted  by  gentle  aperient  medicines,  is  the  fresh  expressed 
juice  of  house-leek,  mixed  with  an  equal  quantity  of  sweet 
milk  or  cream. — Yet  all  contrivances  whatever,,  to  answer  this 
purpose,  are  absurd  and  nugatory,  if  the  tmiNirif  state  of  the 
body  be  neglected,  or  looked  upon  as  specifics  of  themsekes. 
Such  things  do  not  exist  in  nature ;  and  we  might  as  well  try 
to  bleach  the  face  of  a  negro,  as  to  remove  any  scorbutic  or 


FAMILY    FBTSICIAH.  605 

other  jrupUom  ftom  the  faoe^  without  bestowing  proper  atten- 
tion to  the  whole  state  of  the  body^  and  particularly  the  fluids, 
&om  which  these  irregularities  derive  their  origin. 

Such  is  the  opinion  given  by  the  best  medical  writers  on  the 
means  of  preserving  and  improving  the  beauty  of  the  skin,  and 
which  we  recommend,  with  confidence,  to  the  adoption  of  our 
fair  readers. 


with  rttptet  to  the  Bodtf, 

Let  the  body,  and  particularly  the  joints,  be  frequently 
washed  with  pure  water ;  especially  in  summer,  when  the 
perspired  matter,  being  of  an  unctuous  clammy  natare, 
obstructs  the  excretion  by  the  pores.  The  face,  neck,  and 
hands,  being  most  exposed  to  the  air,  as  well  as  to  the*im- 
purities  of  dust  and  the  like,  ought  to  be  daily  washed,  both 
morning  and  evening.  Attention  should  also  be  paid  to  the 
ears,  by  cleaning  them  occasionally;  so  that  the  sense  of  hear- 
ing may  not  be  impaired  by  an  accumulation  of  wsz,  which 
from  its  acrid  nature  may  prove  unpleasant  as  well  as  injurious. 
The  whole  head  ought  to  be  frequently  washed  and  cleaned, 
as  it  perspires  very  much,  and  is  besides  exposed  to  dust  and 
other  particles  in  the  atmosphere,  even  though  no  powder  be 
used  upon  the  hair.  Washing  opens  the  pores,  while  die 
comb,  by  its  close  application  to  the  skin,  dissolves  the  viscid 
humours,  and  renders  them  fluid. 

To  rub  the  body  with  woollen  cloths,  or  with  soft  brushes, 
is  of  great  advantage,  by  gently  stimulating  the  fibres,  increas- 
ing the  circulation  of  the  fluids  to  the  external  parts,  and  pro- 
moting a  free  perspiration,  together  with  all  other  evacuations 
of  the  body.  Persons  of  a  delicate  habit,  of  a  sedAtary  life, 
and  those  who  are  liable  to  startings  of  the  tendons,  cramps, 
and  lameness,  may  effectually  relieve,  or  rather  prevent  these 
oomplaints,  by  causing  the  whole  body,  particularly  the  limbs, 
to  be  rubbed  every  morning  and  evening,  for  about  half  an 
hour,  with  rough  cloths  or  soft  brushes,  till  the  skin  becomes 
red.  This  friction  is  still  more  indispensable  to  the  aged  than 
to  the  young;  and  it  may  in  a  great  measure  produce  the 
salutary  effects  of  bodily  exercise. 

The  mouth  should  be  rinsed  every  morning,  after  dinner, 
and  at  night,  with  eold  water  ,*  but  in  winter  the  chill  should 


MO  .IK>MBmC  COOKBKY. 

be  taken  oC  The  fipeq[UBiit  wash^'of  'the.moiidi  in 
neqessaiy,  becftiue  the  vkcid  diio^  stud  mall  fuhidm  of  find 
which  settle  about  the  ioterstioes  of  the  teeth,  are  irasy  apt  to 
piitrify,  aiid>  if  ttot  remoived,  wiUimCeotiihe*breBlh»  and  gra- 
dually mjufe  thejieeth  tbensadrea.  Besides,  dnsr-diille  settdea 
on  the  tongue*  and  <y>ver8  tbe.papillfs  by  whidi  food 'is  tasted^ 
and  renders  the  palate  less  sensible. 

It  is  scarcely  necessary  to  observe,  that  the  nose  also  shoold 
not  be  overlooked, .  as  (by  n^iecKtiig  ^to  TODoove  the  secreted 
moisture  in  dae  time^  4l^  effects  ouiy  Ijeeonie'tMiublesonie  and 
detrimental  to  the  organs  <if  smell.  In  children,  the  nose 
ought  to  be  oocask>nally  washed;  it  having  been  found  that 
the.  unpleiasant  smdl  peculiar  to  some  infants  is  owing  to  the 
habitual  neglect  of  cleaning  that  otgan. 

The  tongue  should  be  deaaed  every  morning,  either  with 
a  small  piece  of  whalebone,  or  with  «.  sage-leaf.  These  loaves 
are  likewise  useful  for  polidiing  the  teeth.  To  dean  the 
throat,  we  should  gargle  it  with  fr^  water,  and  awallow  a 
mouthful  of  water  every  morning:  the  drinking,  however, 
must  not  be  attenqited  too  hastily;  but,  when  we  onceac- 
custom  ourselves  to  this  practi^,  wv  shall  find  it  attended  with 
advantage. 

.  It  is  necessary^  particularly  in  hot  weather,  to  wash  the  feet 
frequently;  as th^y  perspire  more,  and  are  mare  exposed  to 
dust  than  any  other  part  of  the  body.  The  water  should  fas 
warm^  but  not  too  much  so,  because  hot  water  thus  used 
idazes  the  fibres^  drives  the  bleed  upwards^  «nd' occasions 
headachs. 

Long  nails,  especiaUy  ae  they  w^re  in  fashion  some  years 
agO|  disfigure  the  bands,  and  prevent  the  feet  from  expanding 
properly :  but  the  nails  ought  not  to  be  cut  too  dose,  odierwise 
the  toea  wiU  beobstmcted  in  laying  bdd  of  the  ground^  and 
the  fingers  in  feeling.  They  may  also  be  easily  wounded; 
and  wounds  under,  the  nails  are  frequently  attended  with 
disagreeable  consequences,  on  account  of  the  many  nerves 
running  in  that  direction.  Too  long  nails  on  the  toes  are  apt 
to  grow  into  the  fiesh,  to  become  an  obstacle  in  walking,  and 
frequently  to  occadon  oonsiderable  pain. 


J 


FAMILY  IPHTSICIAN.  669 

On  the  Management  of  the  Teeth. 

The  principal  requisite  for  the  .preserv«tio)»  of  Ae  teeth 
18,  never  to  retire  tp  .  rest  without  having '  cleaned  them* 
Thus,  the  vicious  matter  of  food  collected  during  the  day, 
cannot  corrupt  the  teeth  in  the  night  The  toothache  now  so 
common,  is  indeed  frequently  owing  to  a  hoUow  state  of  the 
teeth ;  but  still  oftener  it  originates  in  a  want  of  cleanliness* 
The  cleaning  of  the  teeth,  however,  requires  precaution. 
What  is  called  tartar  of  ^  the  teeth  is  of  a  corrosive  nature,  and 
should  be  removed  with  the  greatest  care.  The  manner  in 
which  itinerant  dentists  usually  treat  the  teeth,  as  well  as  theiv 
powders,  tinctures,  and  other  dentrifices,  however  highly  puQed 
off  and  strongly  reconunended,  are  obviously  pernicious. 

If  there  be  too  much  tartar,  so  that  it  adheres  like  a  cement 
between  two  teeth,  it  being  iocautioualy  removed  will  deprive 
the  teeth  of  the  tartarous  cohesion,  and  consequently  of  theii; 
support;  and  from  the  constant  contact  of* the  tongue,  lips^ 
and  food,  they  will  be  shaken  and  loosened.  The  same  will 
l^pen,  should  the  tartar  be  allowed  to  eat  away  the  ^m 
from  the  root  of  the  tooth.  If  in  this  case  the  fonndatian  of 
the  tooth  be  injured,  such  a  tooth  will  necessarily  be  rendere4 
loose :  the  gums  will  be  able  no  loqger  to  keep  a  tooth,  which 
is  deprived  of  its  intermediate  cement. 

The  tartar  therefore  must  not  be  broken,  all  at  once^  with 
iron  or  glass  instruxqents;  but  may  be  gradually  scraped  away 
with  a  blunt  or  broad  cut  quill,  or  some  similar  substance  fnH« 
which  the  enamel  of  the  teeth  will  suffer  no  ixgury.  Most 
kind  of  dissolved  drops,  especially  those  sold  aa  specifics  for 
whitening  the  tejetb,  are  made  up  of  vitriolic  acid^  diluted  with 
some  distilled  waters.  They  are  of  no  iiervioe :  on  the  contrary, 
they  remove  the  enamel  with  the  tartar,  and  thus  ^oU  the 
teeth  for  ever.  The  common  tooth-brushes  are  liable  to  the 
same  objection. 

To  .prevent  the  tartar  from  settling  on  the  teeth,  they  ought 
to  be  kept  clean,  by  washing  them  every  morning  and  evening. 
An  equally  safe,  and  as  effectual  an  expedient,  for  removing 
the  tartar  is,  to  cover  th^  teeth  with  a  fine  powder  of  gmn 
tragacanth,  or  with  soft  wax,  and  thi}S  to  extract  the  tartar  at 
once,  tggjsther  with  this  covering. 


M8  DOMBBTIC  COOKBRT. 

In  scorbutic  affections  of  the  teeth  and  gums,  a  vegetaUe 
diet  consisting  chiefly  of  ripe  fruit  and  mucilaginous  vegeta- 
bles, will  be  fb^nd  the  best  correctives.  Beside  these,  a  fin« 
powder,  made  of  three  parts  of  double-refined  sugar,  and  one 
part  of  burnt  alum,  may  be  employed  with  advantage  for  the 
purpose  of  rubbing  them. — To  dissolve  and  wash  away  the 
superfluous,  sHmy,  and  unctuous' matters  which  produce  the 
tartar,  fresh  water  is  sufficient,  though  it  may  be  rendered  a 
little  more  acrid  by  the  admixture  of  a  small  quantity  of 
common  sah.— The  most  simple  dentifHoe  is  a  crust  of  bread 
hard  toasted,  and  reduced  to  a  fine  powder.  This  is  fuUy 
calculated  to  absorb  the  viscid,  oleagimms  particles,  and  to 
remove  the  stony  or  tartarous  matter.  The  bread,  however, 
should  not  be  roasted  too  black,  as  in  that  case  it  would  evolve 
an  acrid  alkaline  salt,  which  might  prove  hurtful.  A  still 
better  dentifrice  is  a  moderatdy  fine  powder  of  the  Peruvian 
bark,  particularly  of  the  genuine  red 'species,  which  strengthens 
the  gums,  without  inflaming  them. 

In  cleaning  the  teeth  we  ought  not  to  make  use  of  brushes 
or  spudges,  but  of  the  finger,  which  being  provided  with  the 
finest  papillary  vessels,  is  a  much  better  and  more  proper 
instrument,  and  precludes  the  necessity  of  resorting  to  artificial 
means.  Besicfos,  the  finger  has  the  advantage  of  being  soft, 
and  pliable,  and  of  feeling  any  immoderate  pressure  too  sensi- 
bly, to  permit  us  to  do  injury  to  the  teeth  or  gums :  hence  it 
is  an  ill  understood  delicacy  alone,  which  can  prevent  us  fi'om 
making  use  of  it,  instead  of  even  the  best  Parisian  tooth-brushes. 
For  cleaning  the  interstices  between  the  teedi,  we  should  not 
employ  pins  or  needles,  whether  made  of  gold,  silver,  or  steel; 
for  all  metsllic  substances  are  apt  to  canker  the  teeth.  If 
toothpicks  be  at  all  adviseable,  they  should  be  made  of  soft 
wood,  or  quills  cut  in  a  blunt  point.  To  answer  every  purpose 
of  toothpicks,  a  thick  and  soft  cotton  doth  should  be  used,  to 
rub  the  teeth  over  gently  after  every  meal:  but  if  people  have 
once  accustomed  themselves  to  regularly  picking  their  teeth, 
dien  indeed  the  cotton  firictiohs  may  perhaps  be  too  late. 

Lastly,  the  ckaning  and  brudiing  of  the  teeth,  however 
useful  and  necessary,  is  sufficient  to  prevent  the  settling  of 
the  tartar,  and  the  consequent  injury  to  the  teeth ;  for  the 
source  of  both  evils  does  not  exist  in  the  mouth,  but  really 


FAMILY  PHYSICIAN.  66^ 

proceeds  from  the  stomach,  and  a  corrupted  state  of  the  fluids. 
Hence  the  medical  treatment  of  the  teeth  requires  a  particular 
regimen  and  diet^  according  to  the  individual  case  of  every 
patient. 

On  the  Treatment  and  Preservation  of  the  Eyes^ 

There  is  no  part  of  the  body  that  is  more  essential  for 
constituting  personal  beauty,  or  that  cpntributeth  more  to  our 
comforts,  than  the  eye.  Hence  the  management  of  the  eyea 
deserves  the  care  and  attention  of  eyery  female  who  wishes  to 
preserve  her  beauty  and  usefulness. 

Those  who  are  natura^y  short-sigl^ted  are  entitled  to  expect 
an  improvement  of  vision  with  the  advancement  of  age;  for 
their  eyes  then  gradually  begin  to  lose  that  uncommon  round- 
ness which  produces  this  defect,  and  thus  to  arrive  at  a  greater 
enjoyment  of  the  view  of  the  beauties  of  nature.  Persons 
who  can  see  objects  distinctly  at  a  great  distance  only,  cannot, 
however,  be  considered  as  less  unfortunate ;  as  they  stand  iiv 
need  of  glasses,  merely  for  the  sake  of  better  distinguishing 
the  more  minute  objects. 

Short-sighted  people  ought  not  to  indulge  the  bad  habit  of 
using  one  eye  only :  and  they  should  endeavour  to  read  with 
the  book  held  at  some  distance  straight  before  them.  It  is  a 
CQn^latioo  in  many  diseases  of  the  eyes,  that  a  long-continued. 
"W^kpeids  is  seldom  the  fore-runner  of  tQtal  blindness.  This 
fa^l  .event  generally  happens  by  sudden  accidents,  and  is 
speedily  decide(l.— Adults  are  not  very  subject  to  external 
complaints  of  the  eye,  or  such  as  deprive  the  cornea  of  its, 
transparency.  Small  round  spots,  hovering  before  the  eyes 
like  strings  pf  hollow  little  globules  connected  with  one  another, 
are  defers  of  no  great  omsequence,  and  of  which  perhaps  no 
eye  is  completely  free. 

It  is  a -very  bad  pri^ctice  tP  ?ndei^vour  to  protect  weak  eyes- 
by  means  of  shades.  Darkness  or  sh^de  is  only  beneficial  tQ 
the  eyps,  when  they  are  unemployed,  when  the  obscurity  is 
natural,  consequently  ^very  where  ext^nd^d.  To  rest  a  little 
during  the  twilight  i)»  very  suitable  to  weak  eyes«  No  artificial 
darkness  during  the  d^^y  is  ever  so  ^niform,  but  that  the  eye 
mjust  ^xert  itself  at  one  time  more  than  at  another,  and  neces- 
sarily suffer  by  this  change.  Persons  with  weak  or  diseased 
21  4d 


eye*,  who  ipend  the  whole  dftf  in  an  apwtment  darkened  w'ltli 
green  cartaina,  much  iajnve  tbemselres  by  this  pemicioaB  prac- 
tice. It  is  &r  preferable  to  repair  to  dear  day-light  and  the 
freth  air,  and  to  direct  the  eye  to  a  dictant  proRpcct,  than  to 
confine  them  to  the  doie  aimosph»«  of  a  room,  and  to  the 
tight  of  near  objects. 

Lastly,  it  is  an  error,  that  weak  eyes,  when  employed  in 
minute  vision,  ought  to  have  a  faint  light :  by  this  practice 
they  are  certainly  still  niore  weakened.  Thus  green  spectacles 
are  very  hurtful  to  tome  eyes,  as  they  deprive  them  of  that 
light  which  t<  necetsary  to  distinct  vision. 

The  artificial  light  of  candles  and  lamps  is,  npon  the  whole, 
detrimental  to  weak  eyes.  The  study-lamps  with  large  roond 
Bcreens,  and  also  the  green  parchment  screen,  are  very  objec- 
tionable. The  best  and  most  proper  defence  of  weak  eyes 
by  candle-ligbt  is  a  flat  screen,  projecting  about  two  or  three 
inches  over  the  forehead  ;  or  even  a  round  bat,  with  a  brim  of 
a  proper  sice.  The  tandle  should  always  be  so  placed,  tbsC 
the  flame  be  neither  too  low,  nor  too  much  above  the  height  of 
the  eye.  But  gas-lights  are  superior  to  others,  as  thecolonrand 
ateadiness  of  the  light  are  soothing  to  the  eye. 

In  the  early  morning  we  should  not  too  much  exeit  the 
eyes  immediately  after  rising.  Hence  it  is  adviseable  to  re- 
move the  candle  to  some  distance  and  under  shade,  in  the  loty 
winter  mornings,  till  the  eye  be  gradually  accustomed  to  it. 
For  the  same  reaaoo,  the  window  shutters  ought  not  to  be 
suddenly  opened  in  very  clear  day-light.  This  imwMMliHtf 
change,  from  darkness  to  the  clearest  light,  occasions  s^tuible 
pain  even  to  the  strongest  eye. 

Every  exertion  of  the  eyes  is  most  hurtful  immediately  afW 
«  meal,  as  well  as  at  any  time  when  the  blood  is  in  great  agita- 
ticra. — In  the  dawn,  in  twilight,  and  in  moonshine,  we  ought 
not  toreador  write,  nor  to  direct  our  sight  attentiTel/ta  objects 
whether  near  or  distant. 

Those  who  bare  weak  eyes  should  carefully  avoid  stm^ 
fires  and  even  hot  rooms ;  for  heat  still  man  dries  the  eyes 
already  suffering  &am  want  of  moisture.  Indeed,  it  is  highly 
probable,  that  die  weakoesa  of  sight  and  eariy  Uindness,  so 
common  in  this  country,  are  in  a  great  measure  owiag  to  the 


FAMILY  PHYSICIAN.  671 

bad  custom  of  hastening  to  the  fireside,  whether  coming  from 
tile  cold  air,  or  from  the  dark  streets. 

If  it  becomes  necessary  to  let  the  ejes  rest,  we  should  bj 
no  means  press  the  eye-lids  too  closely  together,  which,  if  long 
continued,  is  very  hurtful.  As  a  protection  against  injury 
from  external  causes,  it  is  most  useful  to  wear  a  shade  at  such 
a  distance  as  may  allow  the  eye  free  motion,  and  not  keep  it  too 
warm.  The  green  veils  worn  by  ladies  are,  in  this  respect, 
well  calculated  to  prevent  the  dust  from  entering  the  eye,  as 
well  as  to  protect  it  against  the  cold  winds,  and  the  burning 
rays  of  the  sun. 

Of  all  the  remedies  for  preserving  weak  eyes,  (for  diseased 
eyes  require  professional  assistance)  bathing  them  in  pure  cold 
water  is  the  most  refreshing  and  strengthening.  But  this  ought 
not  to  be  done  above  three  or  four  times  a  day  ;  otherwise 
it  has  a  tendency  to  give  an  unnecessary  stimulus  to  the  eyes. 
Nor  should  it  be  done  immediately  after  rising  in  the  morning, 
but  only  when  the  moisture,  which  during  sleep  is  deposited 
even  in  the  soundest  eyes,  is  nearly  evaporated.  This  partial 
cold  bath  may  be  repeated  after  dinner  and  supper,  at  which 
times  the  eyes  stand  as  much  in  need  of  it  as  in  the  morning*^ 
Not  only  the  eyes,  but  also  the  brow,  the  region  behind  the 
ears,  sometimes  the  whole  head,  and  particularly  the  upper 
Up,  which  is  closely  connected  with  the  optic  nerves,  should 
be  bathed  or  washed  as  well  as  the  eyes.  In  the  morning, 
the  eye  ought  not  to  be  precipitately,  but  gradually  exposed 
to  the  water;  and  the  washing  should  be  expeditiously  per- 
formed, in  drying  or  wiping  the  eye,  we  should  proceed 
gently  and  carefully.  Immediately  after  washing,  we  should 
particularly  guard  against  any  rays  of  light,  as  well  as  every 
kind  of  exertion. 

A  large  piece  of  sponge,  which  contains  a  good  deal  of 
water,  so  that  it  may  not  too  soon  become  warm,  is  far  prefer- 
able in  these  partial  bathings,  to  the  warm  smooth  hand  or 
towel.  The  sponge  should  be  frequently  dipped  in  cold  water, 
and  occasionally  allowed  to  lie  for  a  few  moments  on  the  eye. 
with  the  head  bent  backwards,  while  the  eye  is  gently  moved 
and  a  little  opened  during  the  application  of  the  sponge. 

Smoking  tobacco,  and  taking  snuff,  are  injurious;  as  by 
practice  the  eye  is  too  mudi  stimulated.    The  state  of 


'57*2  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

the  weather  alio  greatly  inflaences  the  power  of  vision.  Per- 
sons troubled  with  weak  eyes  should  therefore  not  be  alarmed, 
ff  in  a  tempest  or  thunder-storm^  in  rainy,  ^^^£»7  weather,  their 
sight  be  less  acute.  Such  individuals  are  easily  affected  by 
standing  too  long  on  cold  or  damp  ground,  by  too  light  dress, 
and  particularly  by  too  thin  covering  of  the  legs  and  feet. 

Riding  on  horseback  is  beneficial  to  weak  eyes,  as  is  also 
walking  and  riding  in  carriages.  The  pirincipal  advantage  in 
all  these  exercises  is,  perhaps,  derived  from  employing  the  eye 
with  a  great  variety  of  objects,  none  of  which  occupies  our 
attention  too  long. 

Lastly,  persons  having  black  eye-lashes  generally  possess 
greater  powers  of  vision,  than  those  whose  eye-lashes  are  of  a 
light  colour  ;  because  the  former  affords  a  better  screen  for  the 
eye,  and  reflect  no  light  from  their  outside,  by  which  the  image 
on  the  retina  could  be  rendered  weaker  and  more  indistinct. 

As  our  instructions  are  directed  to  young  females  only, 
it  is  not  necessary  to  give  rules  respecting  the  choice  and  use 
of  eye-glasses.  These  ought  .^ways  to  be  used  with  caution, 
as  many  good  eyes  have  been  spoiled  by  the  use  of  improper 
<ones,  particularly  su(9li  as  have  strong  magnifying  powers. 

On  Patent  and  Quack  Medicines. 

Although  there  is  but  one  state  of  perfect  health,  yet  the 
deviations  from  it,  and  tlie  genera  and  species  of  diseases,  are 
almost  infinite.  It  will  hence,  without  difficulty,  be  understood, 
that  in  the  classes  of  medical  remedies  there  must  be  likewise 
a  great  variety,  and  even  some  of  them  of  opposite  tendencies. 
It  is  evident  from  these  premises,  that  an  universal  remedy,  or 
one  diat  possesses  healing  powers  for  the  cure  of  all  diseases, 
is  in  fact  a  nonentity,  the  existence  of  which  is  physically  im- 
possible ;  as  the  bare  idea  of  it  involves  a  direct  contradiction. 

Indeed,  the  belief  in  an  universal  remedy  appears  to  lose 
ground  every  day,'  even  among  the  vulgar,  and  has  been  long 
exploded  in  those  classes  of  society,  which  are  not  influenced 
by  prejudice,  and  not  tinctured  with  fanaticism.  It  is,  how- 
ever, sincerely  to  be  regretted,  that  we  are  still  inundated  with 
a  flood  of  advertisements  in  almost  every  paper ;  that  the  lower 
and  less  enlightened  classes  of  the  community  are  still  imposed 
upon  by  a  set  of  privileged  impostors,  who  frequently  puizle 


•r« 


FAMlLTf   PHYSICTAN.  6W 

the  intelligent  reader  to  decide^  whether  the  boldness  or  the 
industry  with  which  they  endeavour  to  establish  the  reputation 
of  their  respective  poisons^  be  the  most  prominent  featare  iik 
their  character. — It  was  justly  observed  by  the  sagacious  and 
'Comprehensive  Bacon,  '  that  a  reflecting  physician  is  not  direct- 
ed by  the  opinion  which  the  multitude  entertain  of  a  favourite 
remedy;  but  that  he  must  be  guided  by  a  sound  judgment^ 
and  consequently  he  is  led  to  make  very  important  distinc- 
tions between  those  things,  which  only  by  their  name  pass 
for  medical  remedies,  and  others  which  in  reality  possess  heal- 
ing powers.  ' ' ' 

This  quotation  indirectly  censures  the  conduct  of  certain 
medical  practitioners,  who  do  not  scruple  to  recommend  what 
are  vulgarly  called  patent   and    other  quack  medicines,    the 
composition  of  which  is  eareftdly  concealed  from  the  public. 
Having  acquired  their  Ill-merited  reputation  by  mere  chance, 
and  being  supported  by  the  most  refined  artifices  to  delude  the 
unwary,  we  are  unable  to  come  at  the  evidence  of  perhaps 
nine-tenths  of  those  who  have  experienced  their  fatal  effects, 
and  who  are  now  no  longer  in  a  situation  to  complain.     The 
transition  from  panaceas,  or  universal  remedies,  to  nostrums, 
or  specifics,  such,  for  instance,  as  are  pretended  to  cure  the 
same  disease  in  even/  patient,  is  easy  and  natural.      With  the 
latter  also,    impositions  of  a  dangerous  tendency  are  often 
practised.    It  will  probably  be  asked  here.  How  far  are  they 
practically  admissible,  and  in  what  cases  ate  they  wholly  un- 
availing ?     It  is  not  very  difficult  to  answer  this  question.     In 
those  diseases,  which  in  every  instance  depend  upon  the  same 
cause,  as  in  agues,  the  small  pox,  measles,  ^d  many  other 
contagions  distempers,  the  possibility  of  specifics,  in  a  limited 
sense,  may  be  rationally,   though  hypotheticatly,    admitted. 
But  in  other  maladies,  the  causes  of  which  depend  upon  a 
variety  of  concurrent  circumstances,  and  the  cure  of  which,  in 
different  individuals^  frequently  requires  very  opposite  reme- 
dies, as  in  the  diropsy,  the  various  species  of  colic,  the  almost 
infinite  variety  of  consumptions,  &c.  a  specific  remedy  is  an 
insolent  burlesque  upon  t!he  common  sense  of  mankind.   Those 
who  are  but  imperfectly  acquainted  with  the  various  causes 
from  which  the  same  disorder  originates  in  different  individuals, 
can  never  entertaiii  such  a  vulgar  an4  dangerous  notion.    They 


674  DOMESTIC  COOKBAY. 

will  easily  perceive,  how  mudi  depends  upon  asoeitaiiiing  witk 
precision  the  seat  and  cause  of  the  affection,  before  any  medi- 
cine can  be  prescribed  with  advantage  or  safety  ;'-even  life  and 
death,  says  a  medical  writer,  are  too  often  decided  by  the 
fi'st  steps  of  him,  who  offers  or  intrudes  his  advice  upon  a 
suffering  friend. 

The  following  instances  will  show  the  danger  attending  the 
precipitate  application  of  the  same  medicine  in  similar  disorders. 
— A  person  violently  troubled  with  the  colic  took  a  glass  of 
juniper  spirits,    commonly  called   Hollands,,  from  which   be 
received  almost  instantaneous  relief,  as  the  afi'ection  proceeded 
from  flatulency.    Another  person,  who  fooncf  Jiiniaelf  attacked 
with  similar  pains,  was  induced  by  the  example  of  his  friend 
to  try  the  same  expedient ;  he  took  it  without  hesitation,  and 
died  in  a  few  hours  after.     No  wonder  that  the  consequences 
here  were  fatal,  as  the  colic  in  the  latter  case  was  owing  .to  an 
inflammi^tion  in  the  intestines. — A  third  person  was  afflicted 
with  a  colic,  arising  from  poisonous  mushrooms  which  he  had 
inadvertently  swallowed ;  the  immediate  administration  of  an 
emetic,  and  after  it  some  diluted  vegetable  acid,  restored  him 
to  health.    A  fburth  person  had  an  attack  of  this  malady  from 
an  encysted  hernia,  or  an  inward  rupture.     The  emetic,  whidi 
relieved  the  former  patient,   necessarily  proved  &tal  to  the 
latter ;  for  it  burst  the  bag  of  enclosed  matter,  poured  the 
contents  within  the  cavities  of  the  abdomen,  and  thus  speedily 
terminated  his  existence. — Again,    another  had  by  mistake 
made  use  of  arsenic,  which  occasicmed  violent  pains,  not  unlike 
those  of  a  common  colic.    A  large  quantity  of  sweet  oil  takai 
internally  was  the  means  of  his  preservation;    whtfeas  the 
remedies  employed  in  the  other  cases  would  have  been  totally 
ineffectual.     Here  we  willingly  close  a  narrative,  the  recital 
of  which  cannot  but  excite  the  most  painful  sensatiois :   to 
lengthen  this  illustration  would  lead  us  too  far  beyond  our 
prescribed  limits;  since  cases  of  this  nature  happen  so  fre* 
quently,  that  it  would  be  easy  to  extend  the  account  of  them, 
by  a  long  catalogue  of  interesting  but  fktsX  accidents. 

What  is  more  natural  than  to  place  confidence  in  a  temeij, 
which  we  have  known  to  afford  relief  to  others  in  the  same  kind 
of  affection  >  The  patient  anxiously  inquires  after  a  peraao, 
who  has  been  afflicted  with  the  same  malady.     She  is  eager  to 


VAMIIiY  PBT8ICIAN.  575 

learn  the  remedy  that  has  been  used  with  saccefs.  Her  friend 
or  neighbour  imparts  to  her  the  wiahed-for  intelligence.  She 
is  determined  to  give  it  a  fair  trial,  and  takes  it  with  confidence. 
From  what  has  been  stated,  it  will  not  be  difficult  to  conceive, 
that  if  her  case  does  not  exactly  correspond  with  that  of  her 
friend,  any  chance  remedy  may  be  extremely  dangerous,  and 
even  fiital. 

One  of  the  most  unfortunate  circumstances  in  the  history  of 
such  medicines  is  the  insinuating  and  dangerous  method  by 
which  they  are  puffed  into  notice.  And  as  we  hear  little  of 
the  baneful  effects  which  they  daily  produce,  by  being  pro- 
miscuously applied,  people  attend  only  to  the  extraordinary 
mstances,  perhaps  not  one  in  fifty,  where  they  have  afforded  a 
temporary  or  apparent  relief.  It  is  well  known  that  the  more 
powerful  a  remedy  is,  the  more  permanent  and  dangerous  must 
be  its  effects  on  the  constitution ;  especially  if  it  be  introduced 
like  many  patent  medicines,  by  an  almost  indefinite  increase  of 
the  doses.— An  Italian  count,  uncommonly  fond  of  swallowing 
medicines,  found  at  length  that  he  could  take  no  more.  Pre- 
viously to  his  death,  he  ordered  the  following  inscription  to 
be  placed  on  his  tomb:  I  was  once  healthy ;  I  wished  to  be 
better  ; '  /  took  medicine,  and  died. 

A  popular  and  judicious  writer.  Dr.  Buchan,  makes  the 
following  curious  remark  on  the  subject  in  question:  'As 
matters  stand  at  present,*  says  he,  'it  is  easier  to  cheat  a  man 
out  of  his  life  than  of  a  shilling,  and  almost  impossible  either 
to  detect  or  punish  the  offender.  Notwithstanding  this,  people 
still  shut  their  eyes,  and  take  every  thing  upon  trust  that  is 
administered  by  any  pretender  to  medicine,  witho'Ut  daring  to 
ask  him  a  reason  for  any  part  of  his  conduct.  Implicit  fiuth, 
every  where  else  the  object  of  ridicule,  is  still  sacred  here.' 

Summary  of  the  preceding  Rukt. 

Having  warned  our  fair  readers  from  being  deluded  by  the 
impudent  and  ruinous  pretensions  of  quacks,  we  shall  now  give 
a  few  plain,  simple  precepts  whereby  health  may  be  secured. 
*  Our  preceding  remarks  on  diet,  cleanliness,  bathing,  &c.  in- 
clude almost  every  thing  of  importance  on  this  subject;  so  that 
what  follows  is,  properly  speaking,  only  a  recapitulation  of  the 
preceding  rules.     We  do  not  pretend   to  offer  remedies  for 


&79  D0>1BSTIC  COOKERY. 

every  disorder.  The  attempt  would  be  foolish  l^ld  pretump^ 
tuous ;  for  the  same  disorder  frequently  requires  a  different 
mode  of  treatment  according  to  the  age>  constitution^  and  other 
peculiarities  of  the  patient.  We  will^  however,  subjoin  a  few 
easy  directions  for  the  treatment  of  accidents  which  require 
immediate  aid,  t^nd  where  the  assistance  of  a  prqfessional  man 
cannot  be  obtained  in  proper  time. 

Moderation,  in  every  respect,  ought  to  be  the  first  and 
leading  maxim  of  those  who  wish  to  live  long  and  healkhjr. 
Both  extremes  in  the  most  opposite  things,  frequently  border 
on  each  other.  The  greatest  joy  may  occasion  the  most  sen* 
sible  pain ;  on  the  contrary,  moderate  pain  is  often  accompanied 
with  feelings  not  altogether  disagreeable.  The  highest  pleasure^ 
indeed,  is  closely  connected  with  aversion,  and  it  is  difficult  to 
avoid  the  latter  after  the  ei^oymcnt  of  the  former.  Hence 
prudence  enjoins  us,  to  opposp  the  progress  of  violent  sensa- 
tions and  affections,  before  they  have  attained  the  highest 
degree. 

Cleanliness  is  a  principal  duty  of  man,  and  an  unclean  or 
filthy  person  is  never  completely  healthy.  It  is  better  to  wash 
ourselves  ten  times  a  day,  than  to  allow  one  dirty  spot  to 
remain  on  the  skin.  On  a  place  where  impurities  are  suffered 
to  dog  the  pores,  not  only  insensible  perspiration,  but  likewise 
the  absorption  by  the  skin  is  entirely  suppressed ;  and  if  the 
whole  body  be,  as  it  were,  covered  with  a  varnish  formed  of 
perspired  matter,  it  is  impossible  that  a  person  in  such  a  statg 
can  possess  a  salubrious  blood,  or  enjoy  good  health. 

Many  diseases  originate  from  a  corrupted  atmosphere,  but 
a  still  greater  number  from  the  sudden  changes  of  the  otr. 
Hence  the  necessity  of  exposing  ourselves  daily  to  such 
changes,  and  of  renewing  the  air  in  the  house  and  apartments 
we  inhabit,  by  opening  the  doors  and  windows  every  clear 
morning,  or  during  the  day,  as  often  as  it  can  be  conveniently 
done.  Upon  the  whole,  to  encounter  cold  weather,  however 
intense,  has  the  effect  to  brace  the  fibres  of  the  system  in 
general,  and  is  attended  with  danger  only,  when  we  suddenly 
reinove  to  a  warmer  temperature.  For  tliis  reason,  it  is 
extremely  injudicious,  and  a  bad  compliment  paid  to  a  visitor, 
to  invite  him  to  the  fireside,  upon  his  first  entering  a  l^use  :— 
we  should  better  consult  his  healthy  by  x^onducUng  him  to  a 


FAHILT  PHYSICIAN.  671 

room,  or  to  some  distance  from  the  fire,  till  the  temperature 
of  his  body  be  more  approaching  that  of  the  apartment. 

Every  thing  calculated  to  remove  or  cure  diseases  may  also 
produce  them;  for,  whatever  has  a  tendency  to. accomplish 
useful  changes  in  the  body,  may,  under  different  and  opposite 
circumstances,  be  attended  with  the  contrary  effect*  Hence 
no  medidne  whatev^  ought  to  be  used  as  daily  food— a 
HiYoarite  practice  amongst  invalids  and  valetudinarians. 

WeaUy  individuals  ought  to  eat  frequently,  but  little  at  a 
tame :  the  number  of  meals  should  correbpond  with  the  want 
of  strength ;— rit  is  less  hurtful  to  a  debilitated  person,  to  eat 
a  few  mouthfuls  every  hour,  than  to  make  two  or  three  hearty 
meals  in  a  day. 

There  is  no  instance  on  record  of  any  person  having  injured 
Ins  health,  or  endangered  bis  life;  by  drinking  water  with  hia^ 
meals;  but  wine,  beer,  and  spiiats,  have  generated  a  much 
greats  number  and  diversity  of  patients, .  than  would  fill  all 
the  hospitals  in  the  world.  Such  are  (he  effects  of  intemperancei 
in  diet,  particularly  in  the  article  of  drink ;  for  neither  beer, 
wine,  nor  spirits,  are  of- themselves  hurtful,  if  used  with  mode- 
ration, and  in  a  proper  habit  of  body.-— It  is  a  vulgar  prejudice,, 
that  water  disagrees  with  many  constitutions,  and  does  not 
promote  digestion  as  well  as  wine,  beer,  or  spirit^;  on  thft 
contrary,  pure  water  is  greatly  preferable  to  all  brewed  ai^ 
distilled  liquors,  both  with  a  view  of  bracing  the  digestive 
organs,  and  preventing  complaints  which  arise  frmn  acrimony, 
QX  fubiess  pf  the  blood. 

It  is  an  observation  not  less  important  than  true,  that  by> 
attending  merely  to  a  proper  diet,  a  phlegmatic  habit  may 
frequently  be  changed  into  a  sanguine  one,  and  the  hypochon- 
driac may  be  so  far  converted  as  to  become  a  cheerful  and. 
contented  member  of  society. 

Witere  the  animal  functions  are  duly  performed,  the  secre* 
tions  gp  on  regularly ;  and  the  different  evacuations  so  exactly 
corr^pond  to  the  quantity  of  aliment  taken  in,  in  «  given  tiipetf 
that  the  body  is  found  to  return  di^ly  to  the  same  weight.  If 
any  particular  evacuation  happen  to  be  preternaturally  diminish-; 
e^y  some  other  evacuation  is  proportionally  augmented,  and 
the    equilibrium   is  commonly   preserved;     but    Qoi^tinue4 

^1  4e 


Sfd  ]K>MB»TIC  COOKKftt. 

,  irreiifularitiedy  in  these  important  funetians,  cantiot  bat  tenni* 
Date  in  disease. 


MODE  OF  TREATING  VARIOUS  ACCIOlHTS. 

Of  jBurnt • 

In  slight  burns  which  do  not  break  th^skin^  it  it  oistomarj 
to  hold  the  part  near  the  fire  for  a  competent  time^  to  mb  it 
with  salty  or  to  lay  a  compress  upon  it  dipped  in  brandj.  But 
when  the  bum  breaks  or  blisters  the  skin,  the  part  ought  to  be 
bathed  in  turpentine,  and  dressed  with  Tumer's.cerate. 

Of  Bruises, 

In  slight  bruiaes  it  will  be  sufficient  to  bathe  the  part  with 
warm  vinegar,  to  which  a  little  brandy  or  rum  may  be  added, 
and  to  keep  cloths  wet  with  this  mixture  constantly  applied  to 
it.  This  is  more  proper  than  rubbing  it  with  brandy,  spirits 
of  wine,  or  other  ardent  spirits,  which  are  oooraionly  used  in 
such  cases. — In  some  parts  of  the  coubtry  the  peasants  apply 
to  a  recent  bruise  a  cataplasm  of  fresh  oow-<lung;  with  very 
happy  eiFects. 

When  a  bruise  is  very  violent  the  consequences  may  be 
serious,  to  prevent  which,  surgical  aid  ought  to  be  procured  as 
soon  as  possible. 

Slight  Wounds. 

When  simple  wounds  bleed  much,  lint  dipped  m  vm^ar 
&r  spirits  of  turjpentine  may  be  pressed  upon  the  suHkce  Ibr  a 
f^w  minutes,  and  retained  by  a  moderatdy  tight  bandage ;  but 
if  the  blood  spirts  out  in  jets,  it  ^ows  that  an  arMy  is  wouttd^ 
ed,  and  it  must  be  held  very  firmly  until  a  aarjgeon  alrives. 
But  when  the  blood  seems  to  flow  equally  fh>m  every  part  of  a 
wound,  and  there  is  no  reason  therefore  to  suppose  that  any 
Considerable  vessel  is  wounded,  it  may  be  permitted  to  bleed 
while  the  dressings  are  preparii^.  The  edges  of  the  wound 
are  then  to  be  gently  pressed  together,  and  retained  by  straps 
of  sticking  plaster,  made  as  follows : 

Melt  three  ounces  of  dracyton  with  half  an  ouncie  oT  resin, 
and  when  cooled  to  about  ihe  thickness  of  treade  spread  it 
upon  a  piece  of  smooth  soft  linen.    This  may  remain  on  for 


J 


tbHt  or  four  days,  uhIms  the  sore  becomes  painAil,  or  the  mat- 
ter smelU  oflensive,  in  which  cose  the  straps  of  plaster  must  be 
taken  off^  the  parts  washed  clean  with  warm  water,  and  fresh 
slips  of  plaster  applied,  nicely  adjusted  to  keep  the  wound  to-» 
gether.  The  slips  must  be  laid  over  the  wound  crossways 
and  reach  several  inches  beyond  each  side  of  it,  in  order  to 
hold  the  parts  firmly  together.  By  keeping  the  limb  or  pait 
very  still,  abstaim'ng  fronp  strong  liquors,  taking  only  light 
mild  food,  and  keeping  the  bowels  open,  all  simple  wounds 
may  be  easily  healed  in  this  manner;  but  poultices,  greaay 
salves,  or  fiUiqg  the  Found  with  lint,  will  have  an  opposite 
fiffeot. 

Even  ragged  and  torn  wounds  may  be  drawn  together  an^ 
healed  by  sticking  plaster,  without  any  other  salves  or  medi- 
cines. 

A  broken  shin,  or  slight  ruffling  of  the  skin,  may  be  covered 
with  lint  dipped  in  equal  parts,  vinegar  and  brandy,  and  left 
io  stick  on  unless  the  place  inflames,  and  then  weak  goulard  is 
the  best  remedy. 

Common  cuts  may  be  kept  U>gcther  by  a  strip  of  the  above 
sticking  plaster,  or  with  only  a  piece  of  fine  linen  rag,  or  a 
thread  bound  round  them. 

The  rag  applied  next  to  a  cut,  or  wound  of  any  kind, 
should  be  always  of  white  linen ;  but  calico,  or  coloured  rags, 
will  do  quite  as  well  for  outward  bandages. 

Important  wounds  should  always  be  put  under  the  pare  of 
a  skilful  surgeon. 

Thortu,  Splinters,  S^c. 

To  run  prickles  or  thorns,  such  as  those  of  roses,  thistles, 
chesnuts,  &c.  or  little  splinters  of  wood,  bone,  &c.  into  the 
hands,  feet,  or  legs,  is  a  very  common  accident,  and  provided 
.any  such  substance  is  immediately  extracted,  is  seldom  attend- 
ed with  any  bad  consequences.  But  the  more  certainly  to  pre- 
vent any  such,  a  compress  of  linen  dipped  in  warm  water  may 
be  applied  to  the  part,  or  it  may  be  bathed  a  little  while  in 
warm  water. 

If  the  thorn  or  splinter  cannot  be  extracted  directly,  or  if 
any  part  of  it  be  left  in,  it  causes  an  inflammation>  and  nothing 
but  timely  precaution  will  prevent  its  coming  to  an  abscess. 


A  plaster  of  ehoemaker*8  wax  spread  upon  leather,  draws  these 
winds  remarkably  well.  When  it  is  known  that  any  part  of 
it  remains,  an  expert  surgeon  would  open  the  place  and  take  it 
out ;  but  if  it  is  unobserved,  as  will  sometimes  happen  when 
the  substance  is  very  small,  till  the  inflammation  b^fins,  and 
no  advice  can  be  at  once  procured,  the  steam  of  warm  water 
sliould  be  applied  to  it  at  first,  and  then  a  poultice  of  cramb  of 
bread  and  milk,  with  a  few  drops  of  Peruvian  balsam. 

It  is  absolutely  necessary  that  the  injured  part  should  be 
kept  in  the  easiest  posture,  and  as  still  as  possible. 

If  this  does  not  soon  succeed,  good  advice  must  be  applied 
to  without  delay,  as  an  accident  of  this  kind  neglected,  or  im- 
properly  treated,  may  be  the  occasion  of  losing  a  limb. 

In  this  and  all  cases  of  inflammfttioD>  a  forbearance  firom 
animal  food  and  fermented  liquors  is  always  advisable. 

Warts  and  Corns. 

Warts  may  be  safely  destroyed  by  tying  them  closely  reund 
the  bottom  with  a  silk  thread,  or  a  strong  flaxen  thread  waxed. 
Or  they  may  be  dried  away  by  some  moderately  corroding 
application,  such  as  the  milky  juice  of  fig  leaves,  of  clielidoai- 
um  (swallow  wort,)  or  of  spurge.  Warts  may  also  be  destroy- 
ed by  rubbing  them  with  the  inside  of  bean  shells.  But  these 
corrosives  can  only  be  procured  in  sumtner,  and  persona  who 
have  very  delicate  thin  skins  should  not  use  them,  as  they  may 
occasion  a  painful  swelling.  Instead  of  them  a  little  vinegar 
impregnated  with  as  much  salt  as  it  will  dissolve,  is  very 
proper.  A.  plaster  may  also  be  made  of  sal  ammoniac  and  some 
galbanum,  which  well  kneaded  together  and  applied,  seldom 
£uls  of  destroying  them. 

The  most  general  or  only  cause  of  corns  is  shoes  either  too 
bard  and  stiff,  or  too  small. 

The  cure  consists  in  softening  the  corns  by  repeated  washing 
and  soaking  the  feet  in  pretty  hot  water ;  then  cutting  the  com, 
when  softened,  with  a  sharp  penknife^  without  wounding  the 
flesh,  and  afterwards  applying  a  leaf  of  houseleek,  ground  ivy, 
or  purslain,  dipped  in  vinegar,  upon  the  place.  Or  instead  of 
these  leaves  they  may  be  dressed  every  day  with  a  plaster  of 
sipple  diacylon^  or  of  gum  ammoniacum  softened  in  vinegar. 


C\ 


FAMILY  PHTSICIiKN.  581 

The  increase  or  return  of  corns  can  only  be  prevented  by 
avoiding  the  cause  that  produces. them. 

Of  Disloeationt. 

Any  person  of  common  sense  and  resolution,  who  is  present 
'when  a  dislocation  happens,  may  often  be  of  more  service  to 
the  patient  than  the  most  expert  surgeon  can^  after  the  swelling 
and  inflammation  have  come  on.  When  these  are  present,  it 
is  difficult  to  know  the  state  of  the  joint,  and  dangerous  to 
attempt  a  reduction;  arid  by  waiting  till  they  are  gone  off,  the 
muscles  become  so  relaxed,  and  the  cavity  filled  up,  that  the 
bone  can  never  afterwards  be  retained  in  its  place. 

A  recent  dislocation  may  generally  be  reduced  by  extension 
alone,  which  must  always  be  greater  or  less,  according  to  the 
strength  of  the  muscles  which  move  the  joint,  the  age,  robust- 
ness, and  other  circumstances  of  the  patient.  All  that  is  neces- 
sary after  the  reduction  is  to  keep  the  part  easy,  and  to  apply 
to  it  cloths  dipped  in  vinegar,  or  camphorated  spirits  of  wine. 

Of  JBroken  Bones. 

We  would  advise  our  female  readers  always  to  recommend 
people  to  apply  to  an  expert  and  skilful  surgeon  when  such  an 
accident  occurs  ;  to  keep  the  patient  dry,  clean,  and  cool,  and 
to  raise  him  up  and  lay  him  down  with  great  gentleness. 

Of  Strains. 

Strains  are  often  attended  with  worse  consequences  than 
broken  bones.  The  reason  is  obvious ;  they  are  generally 
neglected.  Country  people  generally  immerse  a  strained  limb 
in  cold  water.  This  is  very  proper,  provided  it  be  done 
immediately,  and  not  kept  in  too  long.  But  the  custom  of 
keeping  the  part  immersed  in  cold  water  for  a  long  time,  is 
certainly  dangerous.  It  relaxes  instead  of  bracing  the  part« 
and  is  more  likely  to  produce  a  disease  than  remove  one. 

Wrapping  a  garter,  or  some  other  bandage,  pretty  tight 
about  the  strained  part,  is  likewise  of  use.  It  helps  to  restore 
the  proper  tone  of  the  vessels,  and  prevents  the  action  of  the 
parts  from  increasing  the  disease.  It  should  not,  however,  be 
applied  too  tight.    But  what  we  would  recommmd  above  aU 


*  ;• 


M9  POMBSTIC  COOftfiAT* 

thiogt  ift«ff«0.    It  18  more  to  be  depeod^d  on  than  may  tnedictDe, 
and  seldom  fafls  to  remove  tli.e  complaint. 

A  great  many  external  applications  are  recommended  far 
strains,  some  of  which  do  good,  and  others  hort  The  follow- 
ing are  soeh  as  may  be  used  with  the  greatest  safety,  tis. 
poultices  made  of  stale  beer,  or  vine;gar  and  oatmeal,  cam- 
phorated apirits  of  wine.  Mindererus's  spirit,  Tolatik  Uiu^ 
JDeat,  volatile  aromatic  spirit  diluted  with  a  double  qnanti^  of 
water,  and  the  oooHnon  fomentation,  with  the  additNNt  of 
brandy  or  Bpint  of  wine. 

Of  Ruptwes. 

Children  are  most  liable  to  this  disease,  occasioned  by  ex- 
cessive crying,  coughing,  vomiting,  or  the  like*  On  the  Bnt 
appearance  of  a  rupture  in  an  infant,  it  ought  to  be  laid  ufioa 
its  back,  with  its  head  very  low.  While  in  this  posture,  if  tlie 
gut  does  not  return  of  itself,  it  may  easily  be  put  up  by  gentle 
pressure.  After  it  is  returned,  a  piece  of  sticking  pbu^er  aoaj 
be  applied  over  the  part,  and  a  proper  truss  or  bandage  must 
be  constantly  worn  for  a  xxmsiderable  time.  The  method  of 
making  and  applying  these  rupture  bandages  for  children  ia 
pretty  well  known.  The  child  must,  as  far  as  possible,  be 
kept  from  crying,  and  from  all  violent  motion,  till  the  rupture 
is  quite  healed. 

Of  Substances  stopped  between  the  Mouth  and  St^nnaeh. 

Though  accidents  of  this  kind  are  vary  common,  and 
extremely  dangerous,  yet  they  are  generally  the  effect  of 
carelessness.  Children  should  be  taught  to  chew  the  food 
well,  and  to  put  nothing  into  their  mouths  which  it  would  be 
dangerous  fbr  them  to  swallow.  But  children  are  not  the 
only  persons  guilty  of  this  piece  of  imprudence.  Many  adults 
pot  pins,  nails,  and  other  sharp-pointed  substances,  in  their 
mouths,  upon  every  occasion,  and  some  even  sleep  with  the 
former  there  all  night  This  conduct  is  exceedingly  incautious, 
as  a  fit  of  coughing,  or  twenty  odier  accidents,  may  force  over 
the  substance  before  the  person  be  aware. 

When  any  substance  is  detained  in  the  gullet,  there  are  two 
ways  of  removing  it,  via.  either  by  extracting  it,  or  pushing  it 
down.    The  safest  and  most  certain  way  is  always  to  extractor 


WAUXLt  VBYSieiAN* 

drawhoot^  bat  Umu  notalw^^tlMeMBMtntaiaytherefora 

be  nwre  el^bl«  somtvtimw  to  tfaniit  it  down ;  etpeciaUy  wlieit 

the  obatructiag  body  is  of  sodi  a  lutore,  tbtt  there  is  no  danger 

firom  its  seceptioD  into  the  stomach.    The  substanoes  which 

nisy  be  poshed  down  without  danger  are,  all  common  noorish* 

ing  ones,  as  bread,  flesh,  fraits,  and  the  like*   All  indigestible 

bodies^  as  cork,  wood,  bones,  pieces  of  metal,  and  such  like, 

ought,  if  possible,  to  be  extracted,  especially  if  these  bodies  b# 

aharp-pointed,  as  pins,  needks,  fish  bones,  bits  of  glass,  &c. 

When  such  substances  have  not  passed  in  too  deep,  wa 

abould  endeaToor   to  extract   them  with  our  fingers,  which 

method  often  succeeds.      When   they  are  lower  we  should 

make  use  of  a  pair  of  nippers,  compasses,  or  of  a  pretty  strong 

ifon  frire»  bent  at  one  end,  and  introduced  in  the  flat  way. 

There  ahoiild  likewise  be  a  curve  at  the  end  it  is  held  by, 

which  should  alao  be  secured   by  a  string.     Flexible  rings 

made  of  wool,  thread,  ailk,  or  smaU  pack*thread,  waxed,  and 

tied  to  a  handle  of  whalebone  or  iron  wir^  will,  in  many  cases, 

be  found  of  considerate  advantage.      Where  tlie  substance 

has  stoppad  only  part  of  the  passage  of  the  gullet,  a  bit  of 

aponge  may  be  introduced,  after  which  a  few  drops  of  water, 

and  when  the  sponge  is  dilated  draw  it  up.     A  bit  of  tough 

meat  sometimes  answers  as  well,  and  is  much  safinr.     When  it 

is  proper  and  necessary  to  force  the  obstructing  body  down,  a 

piece  of  whalebone  or  wire  will  effect  this  purpose.      But  in 

every  such  case  the  assistance  of  a  8UTge<Hi  should  be  procured 

when  poesible. 

0/  drowned  PerMiu. 

Whenever  a  human  being  has  been  under  water,  and  is 
apparently  drowned,  we  should  always  endeavcmr  to  afibiti 
him  the  most  efectoal  relief,  and  never  to  give  ^im  up  as 
itrecove^ble  too  soon,  since  it  has  often  been  known,  that- 
nnitil  the  expiration  of  two  andsometimes  even  of  three  hoars, 
such  persims  have  exhibited  some  tokens  of  life. 

The  iirtention  which  should  be  pursued  is,  that  of  unloading 
the  hmgs  and  ^ain,  and  restoring  the  natural  warmth  and 
draitlaiitm,  &c.  Though  cold  was  by  no  means  the  caase  of 
tjie  pereon^s  death,  yet  it  will  prove  an  effectual  obstacle  to  his 
secovery.     For  this  xeaaen,  after  surippmg  him  rf  his  wet 


M4  BOM B8TI0  COOKBRT. 

clothes,  his  body  mnst  be  strongly  rubbed  for  a  considerable 
time  urith  ooarse  linen  doths,  as  wann  as  they  can  be  made; 
and  as  soon  as  a  well-heated  bed  can  be  got  ready,  he  may  be 
laid  in  it,  and  the  rubl>ing  should  be  continued.  Warm  ckiths 
ought  likewise  to  b^  frequently  applied  to  the  stomach  and 
bowels,  and  hot  bricks,  or  bottles  filled  with  warm  water,  to 
the  soles  of  his  feet.  Bleeding  in  th^  neck  will  also  be  of 
service* 

In  order  to  renew  the  breathing,  the  smoke  of  tobacco  may 
be  blown  into  the  lungs,  by  means  of  a  pipe  or  funnel.  The 
fume  of  tobacco  should  likewise  be  thrown  up  as  speedily  and 
plentifully  as  possible  into  the  intestines,  in  form  of  clyster. 

The  strongest  yolatiles  should  likewise  be  applied  to  the 
nose,  as  spirit  of  hartshorn,  sal  volatile  oleoium,  burnt  feathery 
and  such  like.  The  nose  may  likewise  be  tickled  with  a  leadier, 
and  the  powder  of  dried  marjoram,  tobacco,  or  rue,  blown  up 
the  nostrils.  The  temples  and  pit  of  the  stomach  may  be 
frequently  rubbed  with  warm  brandy  or  spirits  of  wine,  a 
few  drops  of  which  may  likewise  be  put  into  the  mouth  by 
means  of  a  feather.  Should  these  endeavours  prorct  unsuc- 
cessful, the  patient  may  be  put  into  a  warm  bath,  or  laid 
among  warm  ashe^  hot  dung,  sand,  or  such  like. 

As  soon  as  the  patient  discovers  any  motion,  he  may  take 
frequently  a  table-spoonful  of  the  oxymel  of  squills  diluted 
with  warm  water ;  or,  if  that  medicine  is  not  at  hand,  a  strong 
infusion  of  sage,  camomile  flowers,  ovcard»u$  henedietuSf 
sweetened  with  honey,  may  be  used  in  its  stead;  wh^re  no* 
thing  else  can  be  had,  some  warm  water,  with  the  addition  of 
a  little  common  salt,  should  be  given. 

We  are  by  no  means  to  discontinue  our  assistance  as  soon  as 
the  patients  discover  some  tokens  of  life,  since  they  somefcimQi 
expire  after  the  first  appearances  of  recovering.  The  waan 
and  stimulating  applications  are  still  to  be  continned,  and 
small  quantities  of  some  cordial  liquor  ought  frequently  to  be 
administered. 

The  durections  with  respect  to  persons  who  have  been 
strangled  are  so  nearly  the  same  with  those  lur  drowned 
people,  that  we  think  it  unnecessary  to  mention  them.  The 
general  intention  is  the  same,  via.  to  renew  the  eurcnlation, 
respiration,  &c,  which  must  b^  attempted  by  bleedings  Uowhig 


.FAMILY  PHY8l£lAN;  M5 

warm  «ir  into  die  lungs  and  artettihes,  aiidl  applying  warm 
aabttanees^  as  ashes,  sait^  or  snch  Hke,  to  the  whole  surface  of 
thebody. 

Suck  peisons  as  hav«  the  misfortune  to-be  deprived  of  the 
appearances  of  life  by  a  fiOl^  a  Uow>  or  the  like,  must  also  be 
treated  nearly  in  the  same  manner  as  diose  who  have  been  for 
some  time  under  water. 

» 

.  Of  namaus  yapamn* 

The  vapours  which  exhale  from  cfasfroeal;  and  from  wiiiey 
cider,  beer,  or  other  liquors  in  a  state  of-  ferraentatiGn,  contain 
something  poisonous  and  destructive  to  life.  The  vaponrr 
arising,  from  caves,  pits,  or  wells,  which  have  been  long  shut 
up,  are  also  dangerous.  -  When  any  person  has  exposed  him- 
self in  such  situations  as  to  lose  feeling  snd  understanding,  Ae 
fi^owing  means  must  be  used  for  their  recovery :  ' 

The  patient  should  be  exposed  to  a  very  pure,  firedi,  and 
open  air;  and  volatile  salts,  or  other  stimukting  substances, 
held  to  his  nose.  He  should  next  be  bled  in  the  arm,  or,  if 
that  does  not  succeed,  in  the  neck.  •  His  legs  ought  to  be  put 
into  warm  water,  and  well  rubbed.  As  soon  as  he  can  swallow, 
some  lemonade,  or  water  and  vinegar,  with  the  addition  of  a 
little  nitre,  may  be  given  him. 

Nor  are  sharp  clysters  by  any  means  to  be  neglected ;  these 
may  be  made  by  adding  to  the  common  clyster  syrup  of 
buckthoraand  tincture  of  senna,  of  each  two  ounces;  or,  in 
their  stead,  half  an  ounce  of  Venice  turpentine,  dissolved  in 
the  yolk  of  an  egg,  may  be  added.  Should  these  things  not 
be  at  hand,  two  or  three  laige  spoonfuls  of  common  salt  may 
be  put  into  the  clyster.  The  sam^  means,  if  necessary,  must 
be  used  to  keep  up  the  natural  warmth,  circulatioo^  &c.  as- 
were  recommended  in  the  former  article. 

Of  Intoxication, 

The  effects  of  intoxication  are  often  fatal.  As  it  is  often 
the  lot  of  wives,  daughters,  or  other  female  inmates,  to  assist 
relatives  in  this  dangerous  situation,  we  will  give  a  few  plain 
directions  for  their  conduct  in  this  affair. 

No  drunk  person  should  be  left  by  himself  till  his  dotJies 
have  been  loosened,  and  his  body  laid  in  such  a  posture  as  is 
21  4  F 


665  DOMfcBTie  COOftSAT. 


moat  fonhiMyle  Ibr  cdntiiiiiilig  the  vstod  diolilmt^  duchuguif 
the  coQtenU  of  th^  st^nuHih, .  te«  Thd  best  peetttre  for  dlf 
chaiging  the  contents  of  the  stomach  is  to  lay  the  person  vpoa 
hikbell^l  wh^  be  falls. Hsldep  he  tnay  be  laid  on  his  side, 
with  his  head  a  little  faised^  snd  p^Uiticahtf  osre  tnuat  be  tskcn 
that  his  beek  be  no  way  bent^  twisted,  or  have  any  thiogton 
tight  about  it.  ... 

The  excessive  d^^ee  of  thirsty  occasioned  by  drinking  strong 
liquors,  often  inducee  pe6|pl*  td  qamidi  it»  by  taking  what  ii 
hortfiU  I  ha¥e  knpwto  fatal  ouniequsM^Si  says  a.  msdkal 
^ter  of  great  qelebrity^  even  fVom  dfMuog  fredy  of  milk 
#ftcr  a  debanch  .of  wine  or  soiur  puileb;  these  aeid  lk)aor% 
together  with  the  heet^f  the  st<iinaeh,  having  ooagnhiled  tbe 
milk  in  such  a  manner  that  it  eoiild  never  be  digested*  Ti» 
aaftst  drink  afltef  a  debauch  is  ivater  with  a  toaet^  tea,  infali<itt 
of  balm,  sage,:  bM*l^  watef^  and  such  Hke*  If  the  pcrwo 
wants  to  vomiti  he  may  drink  a  wedc  itifuakm  of  otoiattuie 
flowers^  or  lakewarm  w^ittfr  and  oil;  but  in  this  cotiditMO 
vmniting  may  generally  be  excited  by  cmly  ticUiiig  th6  throat 
with  the  fing^  or  a  feather. 

On  the  following  day>  when  the  atonaeh  is  dissdvedi  th» 
patient  may  takea  mersel  of  b^ed  beef  weUealt«d^  orebitrf 
a  red  herring. 

J^ecti  of  CM. 

If  a  peHMi  be  leng  6)tp06ed  to  very  cold  ireather,  he  iiiflde 
r^ist  the  ificlinatidn  to  sloep,  ^hiA,  if  indulged  in,  may  pro^^ 
his  Issti  The  sudden  application  of  heat  is  likewise  dsngowui. 
Tht  parte  most  benumbed  with  cold  ought  either  to  be !»' 
inerfted  hi  teld  water,  or  rubbed  with  snow,  till  they  recover 
their  natuTAl  warmth  and  sensibility ;  after  which  ^e  persAi 
may  be  removed  into  en  apartment  a  little  warmer,  tod  may 
drink  some  cups  of  tea,  or  an  infusion  of  elder  flowers  sweetened 
with  honey. 

When  a  person  has  been  io  long  expoted  to  the  tM,  tbtt 
all  sppeftranees  of  life  are  gone.  It  will  be  necessary  to  rub  him 
all  over  with  enow  or  oold  water ;  or,  whit  will  snsWer  better, 
if  it  can  be  obtained,  to  immeree  them  in  a  bith  of  the  terjr 
eoldeet  wster. 


FAMILY  FHYSIOIAlf •  687 

Tb^  vbitbws,  kSiM,  dUUihuns^  and  dtbur  inflamiriationg  of 
the  extremities,  which  are  so  common  amengst  the  peasaaU  of 
fthiff  oaantry  m  the  eoU  muaa^  ami  diiefljr  oocasiaoed  by  their 
anAtot  Utenaitioiit  finom  m\d  to  heat.  Alter  they  h«re  been 
fifltpAMd  te  an  eitntme  4tginse  of  t^fM,  they  immediately  i^ply 
their  hasda  eiid  fast  to  the  fire.vor,  if  th^  ha^e  oBemam, 
plunge  them  into  warm  water,  by  which  means,  if  a  mortifica- 
tion does  not  happen,  ^  inflaiQmajtion  s^ldpigt^  £^\h  t^  ensue* 
Most  of  the  ill  consequences  from  this  quarter  might  be  easily 

Avoided,  by  only  observing  the  precautions  mentioned  above. 

» 

Qf  Fainting  Fits, 

When  a  person  jfcijits  from  a  f»lnw  Pf  Wopi  vJ.Qlent  ^^^ 
cia?,  drinjun^,  intense  §iyly  or  the  \i%e,  ]xe  shpuld  l^  inia^e 
to  $m$U  IP  some  vjq^^,  '  Pjs  templa?,  fojeh^  a^d  wristj, 
pught  ^p  thp  saii^e  ^gi^  tv  J^  M^ed  i|r|t!»  yip^V  ipixed  with 
an  eff^si  ^winti^y  gf  wapip  ^ya.lier  ;  ^d  tjirp  or  three  ^popnfuls 
pf  vm^aTj  W.th  ft)^r  pr  §y^  ^flji^es  af  191^^$^  water,  n^jr,  tf  fap 
can  f w^ajiov^  fee  P9jwc4  >ntQ  ii|  fflLWJth. 

^^Uj  fw^W^  ft^  prp<?s»d  |»ypb  gft^j^  ffon^  a  4efect  than 
f^SSft?  pf  Wqp4..  JPI^CI?  tliigy  ^e  very  jj^ady  to  happen  af tejr 
great  ey|w;.u?itign$  of  any  Knd ;  o??8jin|ite  watching ;  want  gt 
appetite,  or  such  likfi.  Jjj  these  sfi  alnopst  directly  ppposijte 
q?.¥JS?  J9  |haj  menjip^ftd  j^ff  jpufj  be  purs^wj. 

Th?  patienjshpmld  be  Jaid  in  feed,  an4  l^g  S^veijed,  should 
liave  his  legf,  thighs,  ffna^^  i^d  hi?  whole  body  f ubbed  sUong- 
Jy  wiUi  hot  A«ff»nej8-  JJungax;y  w%ter,  volatile  sak^,  or  strong 
9)mejjimg  herbs,  j|s  jrue^  .9^t^  9^  rpf^f  noar^  may  be  held  to  his 
p€^.  His  ffiffMth  5Wy  \fe  yff^  m^  a  litt^^e  rum  or  brandy ;  and 
if  he  can  swallow,  some  hot  wine,  jnixed  with  sugar  an4 
pii»ajjgipn,  whict  jia  m  WC«llent  cordis),  may  be  poure^  into 
his  mpvith.  A  9W»presf  of  flwJ»Bl  dipped'  jn  hpt  i^ine  pr 
hr$a^j,  mR9t  be  ap^jyied  Jp  the  pij  pf  .t^s  stogiacb^  and  wann 
i)rick9,  pr  boittles  filled  ?vith  >o^  watejr^  laid  to  the  feet. 

As  spq9  as  %  ftaSi.enJ  is  jrepovcred  a  little^  fee  should  t^^ke 
sgme  i^$WDj(f  ^9»f9J^  broth^  or  .*  litt^B  i>i^d  or  biscuit  soaked  in 
hot-spiced  wine.  To  prevent  the  return  of  the  fits,  he  ought 
tp  tjE*e  gfi^^  .i)ut  m  s^  m9fi\^esj  ^jsffe  li^ht,  yet  stretch* 
enin^  npjjiri^inafjftt^  as  Wi^^OT^^e  »rith  np^^  jin^ead  of  w^ter, 


588  .BOMB8TIC  COOKESY. 

t 

new'Iaid  eggs  lightly'  poached,  chocolate,  light  coast  meats, 
jellies,  and  such  like. 

In  swoonings  which  arise  from  nervous  disorders,  or  indeed 
in  fainting  fits  of  any  kind,  firesh  air  is  alwvys  of  the  greatest 
importance.  Hence  it  islii^ly  improper  to  crowd  croaBd  the 
.patient  to  his  assistance.,    This  is  cruel  and  dabgeroiis.      * 

OF  THE  IMPROVEMENT  OF  AIR  IN  DWELLING-HOUSES. 

,  A  house  built  on  a  rising  gtound,  on  a  healthy  soil,  in  an 
open  dry  country,  and  neither  exposed  to  the  greatest  d^^iee 
of  cold  in  winter,  nor  to  the  highest  point  of  heat  in  Bammer  ; 
*-such  a  house  may  be  said  to  stand  in  a  healthy  sitnatioD. 
'Hence  those  apartments  are  the  most  healthful  as  well  as 
comfortable  to  the  individual,  which  enjoy  a  pure  and  free 
circulation  of  air  in  summer,  and  the  cheering  rays  of  the  sun 
in  winter :  the  heat  of  summer  being  considerably'  tempered 
by  the  former,  and  the  severity  of  a  cold  winter  much  diated 
by  the  latter.  Further,  a  proper  siae  and  height  is  requisite 
to  constitute  a  healthful  apartment ;  for  low  rooms  a^  detri- 
mental to  health,  particularly  when  they  are  inhabited  by  large 
families,  and  when  they  are  seldom  aired,  or  rather,  whidi  is 
frequently  the  case,  when  every  access  of  air  is  carefully  ex- 
cluded by  close  shutters,  curtains,  screens,  &c. 

The  better  to  judge  of  the  salubrity  of  the  air  in  any  district, 
we  should  examine  the  properties  of  the  wells  and  springs ;  for 
air  and  water  both  absorb  the  saline  and  mineral  particles  of 
the  soil.  We  may  pretty  certainly  conclude,  that  a  countiy 
producing  good  water  is  provided  likewise  with  a  salubrious 
aur.  As  the  best  water  is  tasteless,  so  the  purest  air  is  free 
from  any  smell  whatever. 

The  most  certain  marks,  by  which  to  distinguish  whether 
the  air  be  damp  or  not,  are  the  following  :-^the  widls  or  tapestiy 
change  their  colour ;  bread  in  closets  acquires  a  mouldy  sor&oe ; 
spunges  in  the  rooms  retain  their,  moisture ;  loaf  sugar  turns 
soft ;  iron  rusts ;  brass  and  copper  acquire  a  green  colour  or 
verdigrease ;  and  wooden  furniture  moulders  and  crumbles  to 
pieces. 

Every  room  is  filled  with  three  difierent  eiraia  of  air:  I. 
the  lower  part  of  the  room  contains  the  beavieat  species  of  air, 

/ 


J 


.  TXUlhi  PHYSICIAN.  506 

• 

namely^  fixed  or  carbonic  acid  gas,  particularly  in  rooms 
aitaated  on  the.  groand-floor,  or  eren  under-gnmnd ;  2.  the 
middle  part  ci  the  room  is  filled  with  the  lighter  atmospheric 
air;  and  S.  the  uppermost  stratum  contains  the  lightest  or 
■ff%"ipi^^*^^^  air,  the*  most  corrupted  of  the  three,  in  cons^ 
quence  of  the  processM  it  has  undergone  by  respiration  and 
combustion.  In  lofty  apartments  this  contaminated  species  of 
air  ia  not  inspired  by  the  lungs;  because  the  middle  stratum, 
or  the  most  wholesome  of  the  three,  extends  to  a  height  above 
thatoi  a  man. 

The  windows  and  doors  of  sitting  and  bed-rooms,  when  it 
can  be  done  oonventently,  ought  to  be  left  open  for  a  certain 
space  of.  time,  every  day.  This,  however,  requires  to  be  done 
at  the  proper  time,  neidier  too  early  in  the  morning,  nor  whetf 
it  grows  dark  in  the  evening,  during,  the  vernal  and  autumnal 
months ;  nor.  at  the  time  when  th^  horizon  i»  overspread  with 
a.  thick  fog.  The  windows  shouU  be  opened,  when  the  air  is 
pure  and .  serene ;  or  in  general,  when  there  is  less  danger  to 
be  appiehended  from  the  extiemal  air-  than  from  that  within. 
Sometimes  it  may  be  proper  to  nnke  use  of  what  is  called 
pumping  the  room,  or  moving  the  door  backward  and  forward 
for  some  minutes  together;  but  in  spring  and  autumn  our 
sitting-rooms,  and  even  in  winter  our  bed-rooms,  ought  to  btf 
thoroughly  perflated  every  dear  day,  by  currents  of  fresh  air, 
for  a  ccmsiderable  time. 

In  the  hot  days  of  summer,  the  windows  may  be  opened 
early  in  the  morning  and  in  the  evening,  in  order  to  oool  and 
to  refresh  the  heated  air  of  the  room  by  that  f^om  without 
It  is,  however,  not  safe  (and  has  sometimes  pioved  fiital)  to 
leave  the  windows  of  a  bed*room  open  at  night  during  the 
summer  months,  as  there  is  no  sinall  hazard  of  checking 
perspiration  by  the  cool  night  air*;  the  susceptibility  of  the 
pores  being  then  very  much  increased  by  the  heat  of  the  day, 
and  the  warmth  of  lihelE>ed.  Booms  which  we  inhabit  in  the 
day-time  may  be  safely  left  (fien  during  the  night. — In  sum« 
mer-houses,  or  such  as  are  surrounded  with  plants  and  trees;; 
it  will  be  proper  not  to  open  the  windows  of  bed  or  other 
WxiOB  till  scBie  time  after  sun^rise,  and  to  shut  them  at  sun- 
set: they  require  also  to.be.  opened  later  and  shut  sooner,  when 
it  is  haay,  tfaa&  in  serene  weather. 


ifemr  jfirmb  ftoits  (pol^owmi^  kt  n dwMi^^if^ofxa,  exfond to 
ik»  ffs  4€  Ae  $va$^  Ukmgmg;  hsmmMx,  to  iwiove  Chaoi  m 
4MBM l2)i6 MW  vitlidimip«>  TUi  nethod ai «xpo«iiig  pittf, 
«r  tf in  the  hfmniH»  #f  te»8  vkh  gwftt  liHoes,  in  iqp«HBMate» 
Wf  iMWie « iMnefiefid  uiAmuqo  m  vitondintriiw,  and  puti^ 

generated,  and  introduced  very  gradiially  into  the  langs. 
.    IdWge  iMm  urith  Iskifk  fiiUage«iM«ld  not  be  fikuwd  very 
MNT  lie  wJudMr^  of  «  jiouae ;  Ar>  iMNNdee  tii«t  they  «lMtmct 
iteMeMof  dliyiiglHenlfrcsihdir^  a^d  luive  duw  « tcnden^ 

toiwg^^ht  «a  fcy  n»  wieapairiMieaeBae.  Tweaylenlod 
at  tiw  iiatiwiie  of  dght  <or  toKfe«de  &aia  die  heus^  do  net 
9l^lie«^ltoji^JflMi»i>f  «ir$  llMyfC«iaBtflnegretobted)|eet 
to  tfc^^fVf  iiod  iWMiPt  ihe  top  iMufc  vecempMnded,  iMCh  e» 
MiMiuii  ^  ilMtr  tosiitMt  flhade  lo  nwinur   aw^  <iie  aiiatjiiv 

f9riWbi1»pi»^iiey<eoikil«tfaig  ^^  ^^ 

Axidlf  e|«afe)uig*  weeughtnat  toaitia  tiwToeea  vhcqi  we 
dine,  or  lake  wtudb,  mitil  it  he  eieed  i^aia.  It  k«e  lass 
irthgtkhyio  alaaf  in  «  Daem  arhere  a  4)MMtilf  <»f  gircen  ,^«l« 
iiiM(ii;»  a<aiquaite»oi^notaitei^iad  tow^wutry  plan^a,  and 
particularly  by  those  who  deal  in  fruit,  ilrom  ita  ^nagraaoa  a 
tmtim  ef  kiMmmwMtf  gaetertoa— yirea,  v<^  aoo&  in^preg- 
Mtos  «the  aur*  ffanoa  AlMlea  4^  driatoly  habits  havia  (waa 
haeawa  to  &jiit»  «a  aypnaaehiag  a  place  arheee  a  few  ^oinoes 
WffB$  ihipt*  fl^r  iiheisaeae  ireaaoa  atonmema  aod  tMHteriea  aie 
fMlrcMM^  iinirhalesenM^  if  fMndem  ef  all  ^oiadM,  itnimri  aa 
wfi  jaa  ^v^gatahk^  are  hcf*  an  them$  ^speci^My  4ai,  eaadieaf, 
fidu  fle^  MUA,  arh^thix  ^nor,  Mfed,  «r  aaaatM,  feetiy,  aa4 
Ihilike. 

^  thefwapiBedjBMtteriif  ehe  akimialepoaitod  luit,  soiki 
iitim  iihottM  imrv  fceawfered  |o  non^  anyitigae  ia  ahpd^ 
mm  or^ttiilgir^qn. 

jif  fio^iaUl€^  ^aeaboaid  jMt  ak  theou^gh  tfae4igr»a«aoBft 
inirhiph  #^  hfn»  .4ept ;  as  ^ihe  laeddothes,  and  ipaitiaohdy 
&alber:b^,  insffixipmif  ^aatoRitfa  (flie  eadudakiipa  C^  have 
imbibed  during  the  night;  aeMMraaitanffiaiaat  Arfniffi^f 


WAUlhT  PHttlCiAN.  M 

ihi  air  of  the  Mom,  thai  ifc  iMbMbovinrtowdl  Medind] 

Ttit  vfl^owr  of  ck4rco^  prodvOw^  ptrticnlaiflj  in  dos 
apsitaie9to#  duigerotoft  and  Ihqiimtlj  jGrtil  tffdtfti.  Wtthitii 
itoniag^  drestiog  ib%  kdr  witk  gteaay  eurhog  ixcfna,  bandh 
hnfMily  lf«q0«Dt  whittwittliiDg  of  tho  wdb^.aU  aatotMe  tfa 
^  of  o  room  wilb  hurtful^  damp,  aUd  atolplmrio  vapottn 
Ffotas  tho  rhaoga  whioh  oil  add  ouidles,  in  a  state  of  eomtai 
lioiH  pvodueoiH  the  ookmr  of  a  white  wall  add  white  eultailia 
wemaf  infinr,  that  thialMditaammiiaCaliopeiialrateintOith 
human  body ;  and  if  so^  must  materiallj  affect  it. 

It  further  deserves  to  be  remarked,  that  all  damp  vapoun 
are  pr^udicial,  although  thev  should  not  in  themselves  have  i 
tendency  to  corrupt  the  air«  Hence  the  keeping  of  wet  lineU; 
or  even  wet  clothesi^  umbrellas,  and  the  like,  in  dwelling-rooms^ 
should  by  all  means  be  avoided. 

ON  AIR  AND  WEATHER. 

Damp  or  moist  air  suddenly  relaxes  and  debilitetes;  it 
occasions  a  slowness  in  the  ciicuktion  of  tile  fluids,  which 
gives  rise  to  stagnations ;  it  impedes  both  the  circulation  o( 
blood  and  the  secretion  of  homonnr,  by  checking  the  insensible 
perspiration.  If  the  moisture  of  the  air  increases,  we  eEperi- 
ence  aik  unacoountable  torpor  and  eimiM;  with  the  loss  of 
energy  we  lose  our  gaiety,  and  the  mind  is  depressed  with  the 
body.  Moisture,  by  diminishing  perspirationi  produoas  dis* 
orders  of  the  throat,  the  breast,  and  the  abdomen* 

Dr^  and  cool  air,  from  its  possessing  a  due  dcyreo  of 
elasticity,  promotes  in  an  extraordinary  degree  the  serenity 
and  alertness  of  the  mind  and  body.  But  a  dry  and  very 
cold  air  generates  inflammatory  diseases.  Diy  and  hot  air 
affecte  us  like  heal,  and  enervates  the  body.  Bat  a  dry  airji 
which  is  not  too  warm,  is  both  agreeable  and  healthy. 

Great  and  sudden  changes  from  a  warm  to  a  ooldi  or  from 
a  light  to  a  heavy  air,  are  highly  injurious  ta  valetudinariaiia 
as  well  as  to  the  healthy.  A  moden^tely  heavy  and  elastic  air 
is  the  most  pleasant  and  salutary  to  the  human  body. 

Among  the  different  tctnds  the  long  continued  north  utind 
is  comparatively  the  most  wholesome.  The  south  wind  weakeot 
and  relaxes'the  body.    The  morning  wind  is  very  drying ;  but 


692  OOMBBTIC  CdOKBRY. 

evening  winds  are  cool  and  moiirt^  being  genentiy  abcompiaiied 
with  rain  and  changeable  weather. 

Of  the.foiir  9e4i$&M  of  the  yeiur,  the  auitann  is  the  most 
unhealthy.  Too  light  a  dna^  and  too  diin  stockings,  are  not 
adviaeable  at  this  season.  The  tjfiting  seoion  is,  in  general^ 
the  safest  and  most  hesikby.  Spring,  and  the  beginning  of 
$itmmer,'  are  most  salutary  to  children  and  young  persons; 
while  the  summer,  and  the  beginning  of  tficliiiMt/  agree  best 
with  theiqied.  The  latter  end  of.  autumn,  and  the  amcoeeding 
winter,  are  commonly  the  most  healthy  seasons  to  persons  of  a 
middle  age. 


ADVICE 

,  •  .    .      .     , 

TO 

FEMALE  SERVANTS 


Observations  adapted  to  Femak  Servants  general^. 

'Ji.  HIS  advice  is  addressed  to  female  servants  in  general,  as 
it  is  calculated  to  promote  the  utility  and  happiness  of  servants 
in  every  station.  Even  mistresses  may  find  in  it  some  useful 
hints  not  unworthy  of  their  attention. 

One  of  the  greatest  and  most  advantageous  qualifications  in 
all  servants  (but  particularly  females)  is  that  of  preserving  a 
good  temper,  and  endeavouring  to  the  utmost  of  their  abilities 
to  give  universal  satisfaction.     Possessed  with  a  strong  desire  ot 
pleasing,  you  will  seldom  fail  of  doing  it.     A  corresponding 
good  temper  will  be  charmed  with  your  readiness,  and  a  bad 
one  disarmed  of  great  [part  of  its  harshness ;  and  though  you 
may  be  somewhat  deficient  at  first  in  executing  the  business  in 
which  you  are  employed,  yet  when  they  see  it  is  not  occasion- 
ed by  obstinacy  or  indolence,  they  wiU  rather  instruct  you  in 
what  they  find  you  ignorant,  tfum  be  angry  that  you  are  so. 


JkDTieE  TO  F9MALB  SntTANTS.  €M 

On  Jbe  contrary,  though,  yon  iaay  diidmrge  your  busineM  with 
die  greateit  propriety,  yet,  if  yqo  iqppear  carelewor  kidkFerent 
whether  31011  pleaae  or  not,  your  Mrvkps  will  l^Me  grMt  part  of 
Ihehr  merit  If  you  are  fearibl  of  offendingi  you  can  ecaroely 
ofiend  at  all  ^  beeause  that  very  fearfulneas  la  an  indication  of 
your  retpect  ier  those  you  serve,  and  intinatee  a  denre  ef 
deservinf  their  approbation.  In  short,  a  -good  temper  ia  the 
moBt  Valuable  of  female  qualifications,  and  will  inftiUibly  con« 
duct  its  podtessors,  with  ease  and  tranquillity,- through  every 
stag»of  life. 

Be  carelul  to  avoid  talebearing,  for  ikBt  is  a  vice  of  the 
most  pernicious  nature,  and  generally,  in  the  end,  turns  to  the 
disadvantage  of  those  who  practise  it  Many  things,  if  heard 
from  the  month*  that  first  speaks  theni,  would  be  wholly  inof* 
fiensive ; .  bujt  they  carry  a  different  meaning  when  repeated  by 
another.  Those  who  cannot  help  telling  all  they  hear,  are 
very  apt  (at  least  are  supposed  by  those  who  know  them)  to 
tdl  more  than  they  hear.  Nether  ought  you  to  interfere  with 
what  is  not  prc^rly  your  province ;  do  your  duty,  and  leave 
ethers  to  take  cure  of  theirs :  by  this  means  you  will  preserve 
peace,  and  acquire  the  love  of  all  your  ielloW'Servants,  without 
running  any  danger  of  disobliging  your  master  and  mistress, 
who,  however  they  may  appear  to  countenance  die  tales  you 
bring,  will  not,  in  their  hearts,  approve  of  your  Conduct 

Let  an  attachment  to  the  words  of  trudi  be  ever  impressed 
on  your  minds.  If  at  any  time  you  are  accused  of  a  fault 
which  you  are  eonsdous  of  having  committed,  never  attempt 
to  screen  it  with  a  falsehood  :  for  the  last  fault  is  an  addition 
to  the  former,  and  renders  It  more  inexcusable.  To  acknow 
ledg^  you  have  been  to  blame  is  the  surest  way  both  to  merit 
and  obtain  fiirgiveness ;  and  it  will  establish  an  opinion  that 
you  will  be  careful  to  avoid  the  like  trespass  for  the  future. 

Humility  and  a  modest  deportment  should  be  also  observed, 
as  they  are  not  only  becoming,  but  useful  qualifications  in  all 
servants.  If  your  mistress  should  be  angry  with  you  (even 
without  a  cause)  never  pretend  to  argue  die  case  with  her; 
but  give  he^ a  'soft  answer,*  for  that,  as  Solomon  says,  *puts 
away  wradi.'  If  she  is  a  discreet  woman  she  will  reflect,  after 
her  passion  is  over,  and  use  you  the  more  kindly ;  whereas  if 
you  endeavour  to  defend  yourself  by  sharp  and  pert  replies,  it 
22  4o 


5M..  '  SOJHESTIC  CQOKEEY. 

n^ill  give  her  a  real  occaaon  of  ofence,  jiutify  her  31  httmomv 
and  make  her  mdre  severelj  resent  the  like  in  futare. 

Above  all   things,   preserve  a  strict  atteDti<»i  to  hones^. 
Let  no  temptation  whatever  prevail  on  you  to  part  with  tliit 
inestimable  jewel.    To  cheat  or  defiraud  any  one  is  base  and 
wicked;'  but,  where  breach  of  trust  is  added,  the  crime  is 
infinitely  inareased.      ft  has  been  a  maxim  with  many,    to 
suppose  themselves  entitled   to  what  is  generally  called  tlie 
market  penny ;  but  this  is  an  ill-judged  an4  dishonest  notion* 
To  purloin  or  secret  any  part  of  what  is  put  into  your  hands, 
in  order  to  be  lain  out  to  the  best  advantage,  is  as  evident  a 
theft  as  if  yo)i  took  the  money  out  of  the  pockets  of  those  who 
intrust  you ;  and  in  doing  this  you  are  guiky  of  a  douUe 
wrong,  first,  to  your  master  or  mistress  who  sends  you  to 
market,  by  making  them  pay  more  than  they  ought ;  and  to 
the  tradesman  from  whom  you  buy,  by  making  him .  spgetat 
as  guilty  ot  imposition  in  exacting  a  greater  price  than  the 
coomipdity  is  worth.    Imagine  not,  that,  by  taking  pains  to 
find  out  where  you  can,  buy  cheapest,  you  are  entitled  to  the 
overplus  you  must  have  given  in  another  place ;  for  this  b  no 
more  than  your  duty,  and  the  time  it  takes  to  search  oat  the 
best  bargains  is  the  property  of  those  in  whose  service  you  are 
engaged.     To  obtain  the  character  of  a  good  market-woman 
is  certainly  a  valuable  acquisition,  and  far  superior  to  those 
pitiful  advantages,  which  cannot  be  continued  k>ng  without  a 
disgraceful  discovery.     You  can  live  with  very  few  who  will 
not  examine  into  the  market  prices ;  they  will  inquire  of  those 
who,  buy  for  themselves ;  and  as  some  people  have  a  foolidi 
way  of  boasting  of  the  bargains  they  make,  those  who  pretend 
to  buy  the  cheapest  wOl  be  the  most  readily  believed;  so  that, 
do  the  best  you  can,  you  will  be  able  to  give  but  very  indifteiw 
ent  satisfaction.     Buy,  therefore,  for  your  master  or  mistress 
as  you  would  for  {yourself ;  and  whatey|r.  money  remains, 
immediately  on  your  return  deliver  it  to  the  owner. 

Be  not  generous  at  the  expence  of  your  master  aiid  nustres^s 
property,  and  your  own  honesty.  Give .  not  any  thing  away 
without  thieir  consent.  Whai  you  find  there  is  any  thing  to 
spare,  and  that  it  is  in  danger  of  being  qwiled  if  «kept  longer, 
it  is  commendable  in  you  to  ask  leave  .to  dispose  .of  it  ^i^le  fit 
for  use.    If  such  permission  is  refiised,  yon  have  nothing  te 


ADVICS  TO  FBHALE  SERVANTS.  596 

•aswflr  im  on  that  aooonnt;  but  yoa  must  not  give  away  the 
least  morsel  without  the  approbation  of  those  to  whom  it 
belongs.  Be  careful  also  not  to  make  any  waste,  for  that  is  a 
crime  of  a  much  deeper  die  than  is  imagined  by  those  who  are 
guilty  of  it ;  and  seldom  goes  without  its  punishment,  by  th^ 
severe  want  of  that  which  they  have  so  lavishly  destroyed. 

Never  speak  in  a  disrespectful  'manner  of  your  master  or 
mistress,  nor  listen  to  any  idle  stories  related  by  others  to  their 
prejudice.  Always  vindicate  their  reputations  from  any  open 
aspersions  or  malicious  insinuations.  Mention  not  their  names 
in  a  familiar  manner  yourself,  nor  suffer  others  to  speak  of 
them  with  contempt.  As  far  as  you  can^  magnify  their  virtues; 
and  what  failings  they  may  have,  shadow  them  over  as  much 
as  possible.  When  this  is  known,  it  will  not  only  endear  you 
to  them,  but  also  gain  the  esteem  of  those  who  hear  you 
talk ;  for  though  many  people  have  the  ill  nature  to  be  pleased 
with  picking  out  what  they  can  to  the  prejudice  of  their  neigh* 
hours,  yet  none  in  their  hearts  approve  of  the  person  who 
makes  the  r^ort.  It  is  natural,  at  the  same  time  we  love  the 
treason,  to  hate  the  traitor. 

Avoid,  as  much  as  possible,  entering  into  any  dispute  or 
quarrels  with  your  fellow-servants.  Let  not  every  trifle  ruffle 
you,  or  occasion  you .  to  treat  them  with  grating  reflections, 
even  though  they  should  be  the  first  aggressors.  It  is  better 
to  put  up  with. a  small  affront,  than  by  returning  it,  provoke 
yet.  more,  and  raise  a  disturbance  in  the  family.  When 
quarrels  in  the  kitchen  are  loud  enough  to  be  heard  in  the 
parlour,  both  parties  are  blamed,  and  it  is  not  always  that  the 
innocent  person  finds  the  most  protection.  . 

If  you  live  in  a  considerable  famUy,  where  there  are  many 
men«servants,  you  must  be  very  circumspect  in  your  behaviour 
to  them.  As  they  have  in  general  little  to  do,  they  are  for  the 
most  part  saucy  and  pert  where  they  dare,  and  are  apt  to  take 
liberties  on  the  least  encouragement.  You  must  therefore 
carry  yourself  at  a  distance  towards  them,  though  not  with 
a  proud  or  prudish  air.  You  must  neither  look  as  if  you 
thought  yourself  above  them,  nor  seem  as  if  you  imagined 
every  word  they  spoke  intended  as  a  design  upon  you.  No : 
the  one  would  make  them  hate  and  affront  you ;  and  the  other 
would  be  turned  into  ridicule.    On   the  contrary,  you  must 


609  ]>OMESTiC  COOKBRY. 

behave  with  a  civility,  mixed  with  serieafiness;  but  on  ne 
account  whatever  suffer  your  civility  to  adimt  of  too  great 
Similiarities. 

If  yptt  live  in  a  tradesBMBTa  fiduily,  wh«r^  thare  are  appren* 
iices^  your  conduct  to  than  muat  be  of  a  differebt  nature. 
If  there  be  more  thali  one,  the- oldest  must  be  treated  with 
the  most  respect ;  but  at  the  same  time  you  must  not  bdbave 
to  the  others  in  a  haughty  or  imperious  manner.  You  most 
remember  that  they  are  servants  oidy  to  become  ntasten, 
and  should  therefore  be  treated  not  only  with  civility  bat 
kindness.  It  may  in  time  be  in  their  powor  to  recompence 
any  little  favoiir  you  do  them^  such  aa  mending  their  linen, 
or  other  offioes  of  that  kind^  when  you  have  a  leisure  hour; 
but  this  good*natute  must  not  proceed  too  fiff  as  they  advenes 
in  years^  lest  the  vanity  of  youth  diouM  make  them  imagine 
you  have  other  motives  for  it,  to  prevent  which,  yoit  mnil 
behave  with  an  open  civiMty  intermixed  with  a  modest  sn^ 
serious  reserve. 

Whenever  you  have  an  opportunity  attend  public  wofBliip^ 
and  spend  not  the  sabbath-day  in  mer^  idle  gossipiog  simI 
wandering  about;  or  is  loose  talk  and  behavlottr.  Yet  yoa 
must  not,  under  pretence  of  keefung  this  day  holy,  refuse  to 
do  any  necessisry  work ;  such  as  making  fires  and  beds,  dnm- 
ing  victuals  for  the  family;  milking  cows;  feeding  csltl^  or 
any  work  of  necessity  or  mercy.  '  TIse  sabbath  was  made  for 
dMu,*  says  our  Saviour,  'not  man  for  die  sabbath.'  ItwsB 
made  to  do  g^ood  to  men ;  not  lio  afflict  or  punish  theou  b^ 
deprive  them  of  any  real  comfort.  But  above  ail  neglect  not 
private  prayer,  and  read  the  Bibl^  diligently. 


J 


ADVICB  TO  nSMALB  SBRTANT8.  Wt 


INSTRUCTIONS  TO  HOUSEKEEPERS. 

K  HE  bosineas  of  the  housekeeper  u  of  great  inportanoe,  9$ 
shehas^  in  a  manner,  all  the  hpuaehold  affairs  to  superintend,  the 
maid-servants  to  look  after^  and  to  direct  in  their  proper  busi- 
ness. However  virtuous  some  young  people  may  seem  in  the 
discharge  of  their  duty,  yet  certainly  it  ia  most  prudent  to 
commit  the  care  of  a  house  to  a  woman  of  age  and  experience, 
well  acquainted  with  the  worlds  and  who  has  either  kept  house 
herself^  or  been  l<Mig  in  the  service  of  others.  If  such  a  one 
be  a  grave,  sober,  virtuous  person,  she  is  the  most  fit  to  be 
nuule  choice  of;  and  whatever  be  the  character  of  her  mistress, 
she  will  gain  her  approbation  at  the  last.  The  servants  will 
treat  her  with  more  respect  than  they  would  a  giddy,  thought* 
less  person  ;  and  the  more  assiduous  she  is,  and  faithful  in  the 
trust  committed  to  her^  the  more  sure  she  will  be  of  a  pkee  on 
any  future  occasion. 

In  our  observations  on  domestic  management  we  have  treat- 
ed copiously  on  the  different  duties  of  housekeepers.  Any 
thing  further  on  this  subject  is  therefore  rendered  unnecesswy. 


INSTRUCTIONS  TO  THE  LADY'S  MAID. 

No  one  ought  to  pretend  to  be  properly  qualified  to  fill  the 
office  of  lady's  woman,  unless  her  education  has  been  tolerably 
good ;  for  being  obliged  to  be  neair  her  lady,  tJie  is  often  re- 
quired to  read,  and  to  do  some  fine  piecea  of  needle-work. 
It  is  her  duty  to  study  her  lady's  temper,  to  answer  civilly, 
and  always  to  evince  the  most  ready  compliance  with  the  orders 
Ae  receives ;  she  ought  also  on  all  occasions  to  defend  her 
lady^s  character,  to  avoid  repeating  what  may  have  been  com- 
nlunicated  in  a  moment  of  frankness,  and  not  to  do'  any  thing 
that  has  die  least  appearance  of  countenancing  an  intrigue. 

The  ptoper  tnellibd|  of  perfortning  the  general  business  of 
her  stiition^  may  be  mt^uli^d  by  attending  to  the  following 


68S  DOMESTIC  COOKBRT. 

approved  methods  of  washing  laces,  masUns,  gauzes,  owb- 
brics,  also  of  cleaning  gold  apd  silver  laces,  stuffs,  &c.  whidi 
articles  are  usually  under  the  lady-maid's  care. 

It  is  often  necessary  that  a  lady's  maid  should  possess  some 
knowledge  of  hair  dressing,  which  may  be  easily  acquired  by 
a  little  experience,  taste,  and  observation.  But  in  all  cases  an 
acquaintance  with  the  art  of  perfumery  is  desirable  ;  we  have 
therefore  annexed  some  approved  receipts,  which  will  be  found 
to  contain  almost  every  thing  of  value  on  this  subject. 

To  wash  Lace. 

Take  your  lace  and  soap  it  well  with  soft  soap,  after  which 
take  a  piece  of  plain  deal  board,  sew  a  piece  of  doth  on  it  very 
tight,  an^roU  your  lace  very  smooth  round  it  After  this  sew 
another  piece  of  doth  over  it,  and  put  it  into  a  clean  b(Mler  of 
water,  and  set  it  on  the  fire  till  the  water  is  scalding  hot ;  then 
shake  out  the  lace,  put  it  into  a  pan,  and  pour  the  water  on 
it.  MThen  you  have  done  this,  rest  one  end  of  the  board  on 
the  dresser  or  table,  and  with  the  other  rub  it  well  with  a  hard 
brush,  dipping  it  at  the  same  time  into  water,  and  pressing 
your  hand  downwards  with  the  brush  to  squeeze  out  the  soap 
and  dirt.  You  must  repeat  this  in  a  second  kettle  of  water, 
pressing  it  with  the  brush  as  before;  and  when  you  have  got 
the  dirt  all  out,  take  some  clean  water,  put  some  blue  into  it, 
and  let  it  boil  well :  after  which  make  some  good  starch,  give 
the  lace  a  gentle  boil  in  it,  and  then  squeeze  it .  well  oat. 
When  you  have  done  this,  hang  the  board  up  till  the  laoe  be 
thoroughly  dry,  and  then  take  off  the  cloth.  Then  pat  the 
laoe  between  some  clean  sheets  of  paper,  and  lay  a  heavy 
weight  on  it  all  night.  Take  off  the  weight  in  the  momiDg, 
and  your  lace  will  look  as  well  as  when  it  was  new. 

To  wash  Blond  Lace,  Muslin,  or  Gauze. 

The  same  method  for  one  of  these  will  do  for  the  whole. 
They  must  be  washed  in  three  different  waters,  each  of  which 
must  be  tolerably  warm  and  well  lathered.  When  yoa  have 
done  this,  rinse  them  wdl  in  good  blue  water,  then  hang  them 
up,  and  when  they  are  dry  let  them  be  well  stardied  and  hoiig 
up  sgain.  After  this  is  done,  put  half  an  ounce  of  yfinglaw 
into  three  pints  of  water/ and  let  it  boil  till  it  be  reduced  to 


ADYICB  TO  FBMALE  8BRTANTS.  ,       690 

one ;  then  dip  the  lace  or  gau2e  into  it,  squeeze  it  out  well^ 
and  then  iron  it.     Remember  that  the  starch  you  use  be  made 
thoroughly  stiff,  and  let  it  be  well  blued.     The  sooner  you 
iron  them  after  wiaishing  the  better,  more  espedally  the  gauzes. 
You  must  also  observe,  that  after  your  muslins  have  been 
boiled  in  two  lathers,  you  must  then  beat  up  a  third  very 
strong  and  well  blued ;  then  wash  them  out,  rinse  and  starch 
as  above,  hang  them  up  to  dry,  and  then  iron  th^.    They 
must  not  be  squeezed,   but  patted  between  the  hands :  lace 
will  always  look  best  by  being  ironed  on  the  wrong  side.     It 
will  not  be  amiss  if,  after  you  have  starched  your  muslins  and 
lace  very  stiff,  and  they  are  quite  dry,  you  throw  them  into  a 
little  cold  pump  water,  then  squeeze  them  well  out,  clap  them, 
wring  them  well,  and  iron  them.     This  will  help  to  make  them 
look  much  clearer,  and  little  inferior  to  new. 

To  wa$h  Cmnbries. 

Let  them  be  well  soaped,  and  then  washed  in  water  pretty 
warm ;  then  repeat  the  soapbg,  and  wash  them  with  the  water 
quite  hot.  When  you  have  done  this,  mix  some  soap  and 
blue  together,  rub  it  on  the  clothes,  lay  them  in  a  tub  or 
triller,  and  pour  some  boiling  hot  water  on  them.  Let  them 
lay  in  this  situation  for  about  two  hours,  then  wash  them  well 
out,  and  rinse  them  in  pump  water  well  blued.  When  you 
iron  them  be  careful  to  do  it  the  right  way,  as  you  will  other- 
wise be  subject  either,  to  singe  or  fray  them. — It  is  necessary 
to  observe,  that  whenever  you  boil  any  small  things,  you  first 
mix  your  soap  and  Uue  well  together,  and  then  pour  it  into 
the  water  to  boil  the  clothes.  This  will  keep  the  blue  from 
settling,  and  makes  die  clothes  perfecdy  dean  and  white. 

To  ckan  Gold  or  Siher  Lace,  Stuffs,  tfc. 

Take  a  three-penny  stale  loaf,  rub  the  crumb  of  it  well  be« 
tween  your  hands  till  it  is  quite  fine,  then  put  about  a  quarter 
of  an  ounce  of  powder  blue  to  it,  and  mix  the  whole  well 
together;  lay  it  plentifully  on  the  gold  and  silver,  and  rub  it 
wrell  with  your  hands,  and  it  will  soon  become  bright.  When 
this  is  done,  take  a  piece  of  dean  flannel  and  dust  the  crumbs 
well  off;  then  take  a  piece  of  crimson  velvet,  rub  it  gently, 
and  it  will  look  as  wdl  as  when  new. 


T0  preierve  Siltfer  and  Gold  from  Tarnishing. 

First  of  all  observe  never  to  put  gold  or  silver  into  a  box 
that  is  made  of  deal,  as  that  wood  is  very  prejudicial  to  it. 
After  at  is  used  fold  it  up  in  fine  India  paper,  over  which 
wrap  9ome  fine  wfaited  brown  paper  thoroughly  dry ;  th^n  fold 
the  whole  in  a  piece  of  green  baoze  well  aired,  and  put  them  in 
your  trunk,  in  whidi  you  should  always  keep  some  paper  well 
stained  with  saffron. 

RECEIPTS  IN  PERFUMERY. 

Pomade  dMne. 

Clear  a  pound  and  a  half  of  beef  manrow  from  the  stniiga 
and  bone,  put  it  into  an  earthen  pan,  or  ves^  of  firtah  water 
from  the  spring,  and  change  the  wal»r  night  and  moming  §m 
ten  days ;  then  steep  it  in  rose  water  twenty-four  hours ;  and 
drain  it  in  a  doth  till  quite  dry.  Take  an  ounce  of  each  of  the 
fbllowiog  articles,  namely,  atomx,  gum-benjamih,  odariferona 
cyprjess-powder^  or  of  Flo)rem:e ;  bpJf  an  ounce  of  omiuHn«0» 
two  ^rachms  of  i^loyesy  and  two  draduna  of  nutmeg,  all  finely 
ppiYflsred ;  mif  |Jiq«|  ^th  the  laanow  above,  prepared ;  tfaen 
put  nil  the  ingreilient^  imko  a  pewter  pot,  that  haU^  three  pints; 
m^]^e  a  paste,  of  wbit^  of  isgg  and  lioOff^  and  lay  it  upmi  a  pieoe 
of  xag.  Over  th^f;  ^uiat  be  anotl^r  piece  of  linen  to  cover,  the 
top  of  ^e  pot  veqr  (4Q9ely»  that  none  of  .tiie  steam  may  evapo- 
rate. Put;|ihe  pot  JQto  a  liii;ge  cof^per  pot,  with  water,  ebserv- 
uig .to kee^ it iK^a4y»  (hftitmay  not  reachto  tba  oovenngof 
the  pQt  tlvpl  i^^i^  the,  mmg^m. .  As  the  water  shrinks^  add 
ipore,  boiling  hoi;  for  it  must  boil  fomr  hoars  without  ceaaiiy 
a  moment,  jStrain  jtbe  oiatviept.lhrQug&  a.  linen  dotti  into 
small  i>ot8,  and  when  cold  cover  them.  Don't  touch  it  with 
any  thing  bi^t  silver.    Itiriil  Vl^p.iqaiiy  yiears* 

A  fine .  pomfitum  may  be  ma(te>y  pottfpg  I^lf  a  g^nnd  of 
fresh  marrow,  prepared  as  al>ove,  fff^i  two  oiinp^  of  hog*8  lard, 
on  the  ingredients;  an4  then  pboexving  the  saf^e  pco^esa  as 
above. 

To  make  soft  Pomatum, 

r        1.,    >       . 

Beat  half  a  pound  of  unsalted  fresh  lard  in  co^qnoniratcr  ; 
then  soak  and  beat  it  in  two  rose  waters,  drain  it,  «id  beat  it 


ADVICE  TO  FEMALE  SERVANTS.  CR)! 

withtwo  spoonfbls  of  brandy ;  let  it  drain  from  this ;  add  to 
it  some  essence  of  lemon,  and  keep  it  in  small  pots. 

Hard  Pomatum, 

Prepare  equal  quantities  of  beeif  marrow  and  mutton  suet  as 
before,  using  the  brandy  to  preserveit,  and  adcfing  the  scent ; 
tiien  pour  it  into  moulds,  or  if  you  have  none,  into  phials  of 
^the  sixe  roa  choose  the  rolls  to  be  of.  When  cold,  break  the 
bottles,  clear  away  the  glass  carefully,  and  put  paper  round  the 
rolls. 

.  Pot  Pourri, 

Put  into  a  large  China  jar  the  following  ingredients  in  layers, 
with  bay-salt  strewed  between  the  layers;  two  pecks  of  damask 
roses,  part  in  buds  and  part  blown ;  violets,  orange  flowers, 
and  jasmine,  a  handful  of  each  ;  orris-root  sliced,  benjamin  and 
atorax  two  ounces  of  each ;  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  musk ; 
a  quarter  of  a  poiind  of  angelica-root  sliced;  a  quart  of  the  red 
parts  of  clove-gillifiowers  ;  two  handfuls  of  lavender  flowers  ; 
half  a  handful  of  rosemary  flowers ;  bay  and  laurel  leaves,  half 
a  handful  of  each  ;  three  Seville  oranges,  stuck  as  full  of  cloves 
as  possible,  dried  in  a  cool  oven,  and  pounded ;  half  a  hand- 
ful of  knotted  marjoram;  and  two  handfuls  of  balm  of  Gitead 
dried.  Cover  all  quite  close.  When  the  pot  is  uncovered,  the 
perfume  is  very  fine. 

Poite  for  chopped  Hands,  and  which  will  preserve  them  smooth 

by  constant  Use. 

Mix  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  unsalted  hog's  lard,  which  has 
been  washed  in  common'  aiid  then  rose  water,  with  the  yolks 
of  two  new-laid  eggs,  and  a  large  spoonful  of  honey.  *  Add  as 
much  fine  oatmeal,  or  almond  paste,  as  will  work  into  a  paste. 

For  chopped  Laps, 

Put  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  gum-benjamin,  storax,  and 
spemiaceti,  two-pennyworth  of  alkanet  root,  a  large  juicy 
apple  chopped,  a  bunch  of  black  grapes  bruised,  a  quarter  of 
a  pound  of  unsaltedt^butter,  and  two  ounces  of  bees'  wax,  into 
a  new  tin  sauce-pan.  Simmer  gently  till  the  wax,  &c.  are 
«2  4h 


6jM  .  DOMBSTIG  OOOKEJEtY. 

^ssolved^  and  then  strain  it  through  a  linen.  Wh^i  cdd 
melt  it  again,  and  pour  it  into  small  pots  or  boxes ;  or^,  if  to 
make  cakes,  use  the  bottom  of  tea-cups. 

Hungary  Water. 

To  one  pint  of  highly  rectified  sjfurits  of  wine,  put  an  oooee 
of  oil  of  rosemary,  and  two,  drachms  of  essence  of  ambergrease; 
ahake'  the  bottle  well  several  times,  then  let  the  cork  remain 
out  twentyffour  hours.  After  a  month,  dmring  which  time 
shake  it  daily,  put  the  water  into  small  bottles. 

'  Hon^  Water. 

Take  a  pint  of  spirit  as  above,  and  three  dradiinsof  essetice 
of  ambergrease;  shake  them  well  daily. 

Lavender  Water. 

Take  a  pint  o£  spirit  as  above,  essential  oil  of  lavoider  one 
ounce,  essence  of  ambergrease  two  drachms ;  put  all  into  a  quart 
bottle,  and  shake  it  extremely  well. 

Essence  of  Flowers. 

Sekct  a  quantity  of  the  petals  of  any  flowers  whidi  have  an 
agreeable  fri^rance,  lay  them  in  an  earthen  vessel,  and  sprinkle 
a  little  fine  salt  upon  them :  then  dip  some  cotton  into  the  best 
Florence  oil,  and  lay  it  thin  upon  the  flowers,  continuing  a 
layer  of  flowers  and  a  layer  of  cotton  till  the  vessel  is  full.  It 
is  then  to  be  cleansed  down  with  a  bladder,  and  exposed  to  the 
heat  of  the  sun ;  in  about  a  fortnight  a  fragrant  oil  may  be 
squeezed  away  from  the  whole  mass,  which  will  yield  a  rich 
perfume. 

&sence  of  Lavender. 

Take  the  blossoms  from  the  stalks  in  warm  weather,  and 
qpread  them  in  the  shade  for  twenty-four  hours  on  a  linen 
doth,  then  bruise  and  put  them  into  warm  water,  and  leave 
them  closely  covered  in  a  still  four  or  five  hours  near  the 
fire.  After  this,  the  blossoms  may  be  distilled  in  the  usual 
way. 


ADYiOE  t6  Female  seayants.  'OW 

Milk  of  Roies. 

Mix  an  ounce  of  oil  of  almonds  with  a  pint  of  rose  water; 
and  then  add  ten  drops  of  the  oil  of  tartar. 

Rose  Water, 

When  the  roses  are  full  blown^  pick  off  the  leaves  carefully, 
and  allow  a  peck  of  them  to  a  quart  of  water.  Put  them  into 
a  cold  still  over  a  slow  fire,  and  distil  it  very  gradually :  bottle 
the  water,  and  cork  it  up  in  two  or  three  days. 

Wash. 

An  infusion  of  horse-radish  in  milk  makes  one  of  the  atfesi 
and  best  washes  for  the  skin ;  or  the  fresh  juice  of  house-leek, 
mixed  with  an  equal  quantity  of  new  milk  or  cream.  Honey 
water  made  rather  thick,  so  as  to  form  a  kind  of  varnish  on 
the  tkin,  is  a  useful  application  in  frosty  weather,  when  the 
skin  is  liable  to  be  chipped ;  and  if  it  occasions  any  irritsition 
or  uneasiness,  a  little  fine  flour  or  pure  hair  powder  should  be 
dusted'  on  the  hands  or  face.  •  A  more  elegant  wash  may  be^ 
made  of  four  ounces  of  potash,  four  of  rose  water,  two  ounces 
of  brandy,  and  two  of  lemon-juice,  mixed  in  two  quarts  of 
water.  A  spoonful  or  two  of  this  mixture  put  into'the  basin^ 
will  scent  and  soften  the  waters  intended  to  be  used. 

•  •  • 

An  excellent  Water  to  prevent  Hair  from  faUing  off,  and  to 

thicken  it.  "   *  '. 

Put  four  pounds  of  unadulterated  honey  into  a  still,  witB 
twelve  handfuls  of  the  tendrils  of  vines,  and  the  same  quantity 
df  roseiAary-tops.  Distil  as  cool  and  slowly  as  possible.  Th^ 
liquor  may  be  allowed  to  drop  till  it  begins  to  taste  sour. 


INSTRUCTIONS  TO  CHAMBERMAIDS. 

X  HE  chambermaid's  first  consideration  must  be  to  attend 
properly  to  the  oare  and  management  of  her  mistresses  clothes; 
for  as  it  is  alwa^^s  uncertain  at  what  time  she  may  want  tfaiem, 
so  it  is  essentially  necessary  they  should  be  ever  in  readiness.' 


uieiT  proper  pioctn ;  190  uuu,  11  you  bhuuiu  <je  luuuiy  -~"" 
upon  for  either.  It  wUl  be  more  convenient  to  you,  and  more 
pleasing  to  your  miatiess.  Be  particularly  careful  to  preserve 
the  linen  clean  and  nice,  and  be  tare  alwayt  to  let  it  be  wdl 
aired. 

When  your  nuitreaa  haa  undressed,  examine  all  her  clotbea 
with  great  niceness,  and  if  you  discover  any  spots  on  them,  let 
tbem  be  immediately  taken  out;. after  which  fold  them  up 
carefully,  and  put  them  in  their  proper  places. 

In  order  to  make  the  chambermaid  complete  mistress  of  the 
character  she  assumes,  we  shall  here  add  a  number  of  useful 
receipts,  which,  if  properly  attended  toi,  will  enable  her  to 
discharge  her  office  with  satisfaction  to  her  mistress,  and 
reputation  to  herself. 

To  take  Spots  out  of  Silk. 
Scrape  a  piece  of  chalk  very  fine,  lay  aome  of  it  on  the  spot, 
and  rub  it  gently,  and  you  will  soon  £nd  it  disappear.  Bat 
the  most  effectual  application  is  spirits  of  turpentine  ;  for  thia, 
be  the  spots  ever  so  numerous,  will  infallibly  take  them  ouL 
If  the  first  application  should  not  entirely  effect  it,  the  seccnd 
Wdl.     ' 

TocUanSUktof  aUSorti. 
After  yon  have  thoroughly  taken  out  the  spots,  take  about 
a  peck  of  bran,  dry-it  well  by  the  fire,  then  spread  your  silks 
on  a  convenient  place,  and  rub  them  well  with  the  bran  while 
it  is  warm ;  after  which  shake  it  well  off,  and  rub  them  with  a 
piece  of  clean,  soft,  dry  doth. 

If  the  silks  be  flowered,  take  the  crumb  of  a  stale  three- 
penny loaf,  mix  it  with  about  a  qiurter  of  an  ounce  of  powdor 
blue,  cmmble  them  well  together,  rub  it  gently  over  the  nlk 
with  your  hands,  and  then  with  a  piece  of  clean  doth,  as  for 
plain  silks. 

To  ftff)»  SiUu  Jnm  Stt^iting  in  Wathiitg. 
Wtna  some  rain  water  in  a  sauce-pan  till  it  be  pret^  hot, 
then  put  into  it  a^e  Castile  soap,  and  dissolve  it  welL    Take 
it  off  llw  fin,  and  when  it  is  almost  cold  sprinkle  into  it  a  small 


/ 

< 


\ 


ADYICB  TO  PSMALB  SSRVAKTS.  606 

quantity  of  fuller's  earthy  and  then  scour  your  silks  with  it 
Don't  let  them  be  on  heapsj  but  spread  them,  and  dap  them 
between  dry  cloths,  and  they  will  be  as  fresh  as  i^hen  new. 

To  take  Spots  out  of  Linen, 

There  are  several  methods  of  taking  spots  out  of  linen ;  but 
.  the  most  effectual  are  the  following.  Take  some  juice  of  sorrel, 
heat  it  well  over  the  fire,  and  dip  the  parts  affected  into  it; 
then  rub  it  gently,  and  the  spots  will  vanish.  If  it  be  .  sum- 
mer time,  and  the  sun  very  powerful,  soap  the  places  where 
the  spots  are,  and  hang  it  in  the  sun,  and  when  it  is  dry  the 
spots  will  be  gone.  Or,  rub  some  salt  and  vinegar  well  on 
them,  after  which  squeeze  it  well  out,  and  then  let  it  dry 
gently  by  the  fire.  If  the  linen  be  stained  with  paint,  rub 
some  butter  over  the  spot,  hang  it  in  the  sun  to  dry,  then  wash 
it  well,  and  it  will  all  come  out. 

To  take  Spots  out  of  Crimson  Velvet* 

Take  some  very  strong  aqua  vitas,  and  rub  it  well  on  the 
parts  where  the  spots  are,  and  then  take  the  white  of  a  new 
laid  egg,  spread  it  over  the  aqua  vitae,  and  put  it  in  the  sun  to 
dry.  When  this  is  done,  wash  it  in  clean  water,  and  wring  it 
thoroughly  dry.  You  need  not  be  afraid,  as  it  will  not  do  the 
least  injury  to  the  colour. 

To  take  Spots  out  of  St^ffs,  or  Cloth. 

Take  some  of  the  clearest  and  whitest  fuller's  earth  you  can 
meet  with,  let  it  be  well  dried  by  the  fire,  after  which  pound 
it  in  a  mortar  till  it  be  very  fine;  then  mix  some  spirits  of 
turpentine  with  it,  and  form  it  into  round  balls,  which  you 
may  keep  by  you  to  use  as  occasion  shall  require.  Take  a 
piece  of  one  of  these  balls,  put  it  into  a  cup  or  pan,  mix  a  little 
boiling  water  with  it,  and  lay  it  on  the  parts  that  are  spotted. 
When  it  is  dry,  rub  it  with  a  little  hard  brush,  and  when  the 
spots  are  out,  take  a  clean  bit  of  cloth,  and  rub  it  gently  till 
y  ou  have  taken  the  fuller's  earth  out  also. 

To  take  Spots  out  of  Scarlet. 

Take  the  juice  of  the  herb  called  laneria  (which  may  be 
had  at  any  apothecary's)  and  lay  it  on  the  spotted  part :  let  it 


> 


006  DOMESTIC  eOOKERY*      ' 

t»ntmue  there  ahout  iSbt^  boars,*  and  tken  wash  It  in  warm 
water.  If  it  should  not  answer  yoiir  ezpdctaliotis  the  iirst  time, 
repeat  it,  adding  a  litHe  soap  to  the  juice,  and  it  wiB  efectuUy 
take  it  out 

•  '  TQit^ke  Spots  out  of  Cktk  in  Grain* 
'  Take  of  rpdie-olttm  water,  tartar  of  tonnes,  and  white  soip, 
about  thr«e  ounces  each,  and  make^^  themintii  &  toe  powdff- 
Pm  the  a]uinwatia>  into  an  earthen  pipkin  <m  the  fire,*ao(l 
when  it  begins  to  sipnner,  take  two  ox-galls,  and  stir  ibmi» 
with  a  stick;  and  by  degrees  the  powders.  Let  it  boil  tOiitbe 
reduced  to  about  one-third,  and  then  wash  the  spots  with  it 
three  or  four  times,  drying  it  between  each ;  after  which  with 
it  in  clean  water,  and  the  spots  wiU  be  entirely  eradicated. 

To  take  out  Grea$e,  or  Oify  Spots. 
Take  a  quart  of  clear  soft  water,  about  four  ounces  of 
alumen  fecis  T>umt,  two  scruples  of  camphor  aftd  the  giU  of 
ail  ox  J  fnix  all  together,  put  it  into  a  pan  or  pipkin  qvert 
slow  fire,  and  let  it  simmer  till  it  be  reduced  to  about  half  the 
quantity :  then  strain  iU  and  use  it  when  it  is  abouf  lukewaroL 
Wet  the  cloth  on  both  sides  where  tibe  spots  ^xe,  then  wai 
them,  with  cold  .irater,  .and  the  spots  will  disappear. 

To  take  Spots  of  Ink  or  Wine  out  of  Cloth,  or  Unen. 

Take  the  jiaooof  lejQpns,  and  rub  it  well  on  Ae  spots,  and 
when  it  is  dry,  wash  it  in  warm  water.  Repeat  this  a  second 
time,  and  the  spots  will  disappear.  If  it  be  linen,  pat  sods^ 
boiling  water  into  a  pewter  pot,  take  that  part  that  has  the 
spot,  and  hold  it  tight  round  the  p^t,  then  rub  it  hard  with 
lemon  juice,  and  it  will  take  the  spot  quite  out  Or  if  you 
take  a  little  essential  salt  of  lemons,  and  put  a  little  over  the 
jpu^  ^ned,  with  a  tea-spoon,  while  over  the  boiling  water, 
it  iviU  effectually  take  out  spots  of  ink,  iron-moulds,  &c.  Be 
careful  not  to  let  this  touch  any  thing  coloured,  as  it  viO 
destroy  the  colour. 

To  take  out  all  Sorts  qf  Spots  or  Stains  from  the  Hands,  ^c. 
Take  a  small  quantity  of  bay-salt,  mix  it  with  some  Isdoo 
juice,  wash  the!  parts  that  are  stained,  and  let  them  dry  gradu- 
ally. Repeat  it  some  time  after,  and  the  stains  will  be  quite 
gone.  ^ 


ABVICB  TO  FSH AI4R  SBRYANTS..  00? 


Tottike  Iran  MoMsma  i^  LHlien. 

Take  some  sorrel,  bruise  ir  well  In  a  ttiOfCar»  squeeze  it 
through  a  cloth,  bottle  it,  and  keep  it  for  use.  Take  a  little 
of  the  above  juice  in  a  tin  saude^paii,  and  boil  it  over  a  lamp ; 
as  it  boils  dip  the  iron-mould  into  it ;  db  not  rub,  bat  duly 
squeeze  it.  When  you  find  the  iron  mould  is- out,  throw  it 
into  cold  water. 

To  make  Linen  White  that  is  turned  Yellauf. 

Take  two  quarts  of  milk,  heat  it  over  the  fire,  and  scrape 
into  it  half  a  pound  of  cake  soap.  When  the  soap  is  thoroughly 
dissolved,  put  the  linen  in,  and  when  they  have  boiled  flat 
some  time,  take  them  out,  put  them  into  a  lather  of  hot  water, 
and  wash  them  out. 

To  keep  Linen  not  need  from  receiving  any  Damage. 

When  you  have  washed  and  well  dried  it,  fbld  it  up,  arid 
scatter  in  the  finding  the  powder  of  cedar-wood,  or  ci^dar 
gfound  small,  having  first  perfumed  your  chest  with  storax; 
by  which  means  not  only  dampness  is  prevented,  but  wcnms, 
moths,  &c. 

The  heU  Method  of  Whitening  any  Sort  of  Cloth. 

PiMt,  let  your  doth  be  well  bucked,  then  sprei^  it  on  the 
grass,  and  sprinkle  it  with  alum  water.  Let  it  continue  in  ibh 
situation  for  three  or  four  days;  then  buck  it  again  with  soap 
and  fuller's  earth,  and  use  it  as  before ;  by  which  means  it  will 
not  only  grow  white,  but  swell  in  iU  substance. 

To  ekan  Hangittge  and  Tapeetry  that  hate  faded. 
First,  beat  the  dust  out  of  them  as  clean  as  possible,  then 
rub  them  well  over  with  a  dry  brush,  and  make  a  good  lathed 
of  Castile  or  cake  soap,  and  tub  them  well  over  with  a  hard 
brush ;  then  teke  some  fiiir  water,  and  with  it  wash  off  the 
fl'oth,  and  niake  a  water  with  alum,  i(nd  Wash  them  dver  with 
it,  and  you  will  find,  when  dry,  most  of  th6  colburs  restored  in 
a  Aorttime ;  and  those  that  are  yet  too  fiunt,  you  must  assist 
by  a  pencil -dipped  in  proper  colour.  It  will  not  be  amiss  if 
you  rub  over  the  whole  piece.  In  th^  i$sme  manner,  with  water 


.V 


608  DOMESTIC;  COOKERY. 

colours  mixed  with  weak  gum  water^  and  it  will  cause  it, 
done,  to  look  at  a  distance  Uke.new. 

To  clean  Ribban$> 

First,  sprinkle  them  moderately  with  a  little  dean  water, 
and  then  lay  them  on  a  carpet  or  clean  doth  at  full  iNreadth, 
and  having  made  a  thin  lather  of  Castile  soap,  rub  them  gently 
with  a  brush,  or  fine  wooUeo  cloth.  Then  take  some  water, 
mix  with  it  a  little  alum  and  white  tartar,  and  rub  them  well 
with  it.  This  will  make  them  not  only  clean,  but  the  ecdour 
will  be  fixed  from  fu^her  fading.  You  must  dry  them  in  the 
shade,  and  smooth  them  with  a  glass  slick-stone. 

•  # 

To  wash  Silk  Stockings.  . 

These  must  not  be  laid  in  soak  before  washing,  as  it  will 
entirely  destroy  their  colour.  They  must  be  washed  in  cold 
water  with  two  lathers,  the  latter  of  whidi  must  be  well  blued. 
They  must  not  be  rinsed,  but  turn  them  often,  then  press 
them,  and  when  they  are  thoroughly  dry,  put  them  up  for  use. 

To  wash  Silk  Handkerchiefs. 

These  must  also  be  first  waslied  in  cdd  water ;  and  the 
second  lather  must  be  only  lukewarm.  After  the  second 
washing,  rinse  them  in  cold  water,  dry  them  gently,  and  then 
fold  them  up. 

To  wash  black  and  whiie  Sarsenets. 

First,  lay  them  smooth  on  a  board  or  carpet,  spreading  a 
little  soap  over  the  dirty  place ;  then  make  a  lather  with  Cas* 
tile  soap,  and  having  an  indifferently  fine  brush,  dip  it  therein, 
and  rub  over  the  silks  the  right  way, .  viz.  longways,  and 
repeat  this  till  you  find  that  side  is  sufficiently  scoured  ;  then 
turn  the  other,  and  use  it  in  the  same  manner ;  after  whidi 
put  it  into  dean  water  scalding  hot.  When  it  has  been  in  this 
some  time,  mix  a  small  quantity  of  gum  arabic  in  some  cold 
water,  and  rinse  thejn  well ;  then  take  them  out  and  fold  them, 
clapping  or  pressing  out  the  water  with  your  hands  on  a  cnpet 
that  is  dry ;  when  you  find  the  water  pretty  well  out.  in  esse  of 
the  white,  yon  must  have  some  brimstone  ready  to  smokc^  or 


« 


ADVICB  TO  FSMALS  8BKTANTS.  000 

dry  it  over^  till  it  be  ready  for  smoothing,  which  must  be  done 
on  the  right  side  with  ^n  iron  moderately  hot. 

The  best  Method  of  making  and  using  Starch. 

■  * 

Take  such  a  quantity  of  starch  as  you  think  proportionable 
to  the  things  you  have  to  use  it  for^  just  moisten  it  with  a  little 
water,  and  then  mix  a  small  quantity  of  powder  bUie  with  it^ 
af^r  which  put  it  into  about  half  a  pint  of  water,  and  stir  it 
well  together.  Hare  about  a  quart  of  water  boiling  on  the 
fire,  and  when  your  starch  and  blue  is  sufficiently  stirred  up, 
put  it  into  the  water  as  it  boils.  Let  it  boil  for  about  a  quarter 
of  an  hour,  and  be  sure  to  keep  it  stirring  all  the  while.  The. 
more  it  is  stirred  the  stifier  it  will  be,  and  your  linen  will  look 
the  better. 

Those  things  you  woul4  have  most  stiffened  must  be  dipped 
in  first ;  you  must  not  mb  the  starch  too  strong,  you  may 
weaken  it  by  the  addition  of  a  little  water ;  and  before  yOu 
nse  it  be  sure  to  let  it  be  well  strained. 

You  should  always  boil  your  starch  in  a  copper  vessel,  be* 
cause  as  it  requires  a  deal  of  boiling,  tin  is  very  apt  to  make  it 
burn  too. 

There  are  various  things  which  different  people  mix  with 
their  starch,  such  as  alum,  gum  arabic,  and  tallow;  but  ifyou 
do  put  any  thing  in»  let  it  be  a  little  isinglass,  for  that  is  by  far 
the  best.  About  an  ounce  to  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  starch 
will  be  sufficient. 

To  wash  Thread  and  Cotton  Stockings, 

Both  these  must  have  two  lathers  and  a  boil,  and  the  water 
must  be  well  blued.  When  this  is  done,  wash  them  out  of  the 
boil,  after,  which  fold  them  up  very  smooth  without  rinsing, 
and  press  them  under  a  weight  for  about  half  an  hour :  then 
hang  them  up,  and  wlien  they  are  thoroughly  dry,  roll  them 
up  without  ironing,  and  they  will  look  lUi  well  as  when  new. 

Worsted  stockings  must  be  washed  in  two  lathers  till  they 
are  quite  clean,  but  do  not  put  any  soap  on  them :  when  you 
have  done  this,  rinse  them  well,  hang  them  up,  and  as  soon  as 
ihey  are  dry,  fold  them  up  for  use. 
fS  '  41 


610  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

To  wash  Naek  SUk*. 
Warm  a  little  «maU  beer,  and  mix  it  with  ink,  then  waah* 
the  dlk  in  it|  and  it  will  have  a  fine  black  colour. 

To  uHuk  9carkt  CloakM. 

,  Take  a  little  iuUer'a  earth,  and  boil  it  in  water;  when  yoa 
take  it  ofi^,  let  it  stand  till  it  is  only  lukewarm ;  then  wash  the 
doiiks  in  it,  and  when  they  are  clean,  rinse  them  in  ocdd  pump 
water. 

> 

To  dean  Silk  Furniture. 

Brush  it  dean  until  all  the  spoto  are  taken  out,  at  least  so 
many  as  will  come  out  by  the  brush ;  then  take  as  much  bran 
as  the  size  of  the  cloth  requires,  and  when  it  has  been  properly 
dried  before  the  fire,  put  to  it  an  ounce  of  powder  bine,  and 
lay  the  clodi  on  a  proper  place ;  rub  them  till  they  are  dean, 
and  then  hang  them  up  to  dry  ;  when  properly  dried  let  them 
be  brushed  three  different  times,  and  they  wiU  look  as  wdl  as 
at  first. 

To  clean  Damask  Curtains^  and  other  Sorts  of   Worsted 

Furniture, 

Take  some  dry  fuller's  earth  of  the  whitest  sort  you  caa 
procure  ;*  when  it  is  well  dried  before  the  fire,  pour  boiling 
water  upon  it,  until  it  is  quite  soft ;  then  put  to  it  two  penny- 
worth of  the  spirits  of  turpentine,  and  when  they  are  all  pro- 
perly mixed,  lay  your  curtains  or  other  cloths  on  a  large  square 
table,  and  rub  it  upon  them  as  hard  as  yon  can,  remembering 
always  to  rub  them  first  on  the  inside,  and  then  on  the  oat; 
rub  every  place  over,  and  then  hang  them  up  on  a  line,  either 
in  the  air  or  before  the  fire :  when  they  are  quite  dry,  bruA 
them  with  a  hard  brush,  and  then  with  two  softer  <»iea,  and 
the  curtains  will  look  extremely  wdl. 

To  wash  fine  Muslins. 

Let  the  muslins  be  folded  into  four,  and  put  into  dean 
water,  not  very  hot,  otherwise  they  are  apt  to  be  yellow ;  and 
when  you  have  strained  the  water  through  a  fine  doth,  take  a 
piece  of  the  fin^  soap  and  beat  it  to  a  lather  with  a  stick 


ADVICE  TO  FEMALE  SERVANTS.  Oil 

turned  very  smiootfa ;  for  ii^  the  stick  is  of  soft  wood,  or  has  any 
flaws  about  it,  some  splinters  will  be  apt  to  remam  in  the  water. 
Tlien  put  in  the  muslins,  and  wash  them  one  by  one,  then  let 
them  lie  in  the  water  for  Ihe  dirt  to  soak  out  When  you 
take  them  out,  wash  them  in  milk- warm  water,  and  squeei« 
them  as  hard  as  possible,  lest  any  of  the  dirt  should  be  left  in ; 
then  shake  them,  and  lay  them  into  an  earthen  dish.  Let  them 
lie  there  till  you  have  made  a  seicond !  lather  in  the  same  man- 
ner as  the  first,  only  that  the  water  must  be.more  hot  than  the 
first,  but  not  boiling,  otherwise  it  will  injure  them. .  Put  a 
little  water  to  as  much  powder  blue  as  is  necessary,  and  then 
pour  it  into  scalding  water,  stirring  it  about  until  it  appear 
blue;  then  make  a  lather  in  the  same  manner  as  before,  and 
when  you  have  put  in  your  muslins,  let  them  be  covered  over 
with  a  fine  dean  doth.  It  will  be  better  that  they  stand  all 
night  in  the  water,  and  in  the  momitig  let  the  blue  be  washed 
clean  out ;  then  lay  them  in  cold  pump  water  till  you  stardi 
them. 

To  rinse  MtuKns-befmrepouitarch  them. 

Take  a  cup  of  powder  blue,  and  mix  it  with  some  pump 
water  in  a  dean  pan ;  when  you  have  shaken  it  about  for  some 
time  till  it  be  properly  mixeid,  then  put  to  it  a  cup  more  of  cold 
pump  water,  and  squeeze  your  muslins  through  it  one  by  one, 
never  putting  more  than  one  in  at  a  time,  otherwise  you  will 
be  apt  to  spoil  them  by  giving  them  a  yellowish  colour.  If 
the  remains  of  the  blue  settle  upon  them,  rub  them  in  the  water 
with  your  hand  very  slightly ;  but  if  any  of  them  appear  yeU 
low,  you  must  put  more  blue  to  the  water,  as  the  only  means 
of  making  them  change  their  colour.  When  you  have  rinsed 
them  dean  let  them  be  squeezed  ah  hard  as  they  can  bear, 
without  hurting  them,  because  unless  the  water  is  quite  out, 
they  will  never  take  the  starch  so  well.  Let  your  hands  be 
very  dry  when  you  pull  them  out,  and  then  let  them  be  laid 
on  a  fine  dry  doth,  by  which  you  will  be  icble  to  see  whether 
any  wet  is  left  in  them. 


•  To  starch  fine 

Take  a  dean  skillet,  and  put  in  it  a  pint  of.  pump  water, 
mixed  with  a  quarter  pf.  a  pound  of  starch,  and  keep  it  over  a 


take  it  off,  and  when  it  Iiaa  atood  about  a  minute.  Let  it  be 
poured  into  a  dean  earthen  diafa,  and  covered  up  widi  m.  dell 
plate  ontiL  it  be  cold ;  then  mix  a  haodfiil  of  it  witii  half  as 
much  blue,  and  t^e  ycnx  mnalin,  qiKad  it  ont  doable,  ao 
«■  to  lay  the  starch  upm  it,  but  do  not  let  it  be  too  thick.  Ls^ 
it  first  orer  the  one  side  and  then  the  other,  but  do  not  let  it 
be  opened  out,  because  it  will  soak  through  sufficiently  to  an- 
swer the  end.  Let  it  be  laid  on  the  finest  muslins  first,  md 
afterwsrda  on  those  that  are  tUcker,  fiw  thatwhidi  is  laid  upon 
the  fine  ones  will  serve  to  do  the  others,  and  most  aorta  of 
eoacser  clothe*  made  of  muslin  may  be  done  with  the  ssne 
itarcb.  When  ifou  have  done  starching  them,  let  them  be  Uid 
in  a  dnn  earthen  dish,  and  keep  pressing  diem  till  the  starch 
begms  to  |tick  to  yonr  hands.  Then  wring  it  ont  of  tbeo), 
and  when  you  have  wiped  them  with  a  dean  dry  dioth,  opoi 
them  oat  and  mb  ths^.goitly. 

To  clap  MtuUfu  before  they  are  ironed. 
After  you  have  c^iened  tham  rub  them  through  yonr  hands, 
tmd  then  dap  them  together,  holding  them  by  the  ends  in  your 
bands,  until,  they  are  hard ;  but  if  you  perceive  any  wet  or 
itarch  upon  your  hands,  then  wa^  them,  and  keep  them  as 
dry  as  possible,  otherwise  the  muslin  will  never  look  well.  Yo« 
must  pull  them  with  your  hands  both  ways,  whidi  is  the  best 
method  that  can  be  used  to  prevent  fraying ;  and  when  they 
are  dry  enough,  spread  them  out,  and  hold  ihem  between  you 
and  the  light,  by  which  you  will  see  whether  any  of  the  starch 
remsiDs  in  them.  The  best  way  to  know  if  any  of  the  sUidi 
remains  in  them,  is  to  look  through  an^  see  if  any  thing  shines^ 
which,  if  itdoes,  itisstardi,  and  you  must  mb  it  again  with 
your  hands.  If  none  is  left,  they  will  fly  asunder  when  you 
cUp  them,  but  they  must  be  clapped  as  fast  as  possible,  lest 
they  become  too  soft,  wid  lose  their  colour.  It  is  also  necessary 
to  observe  that  they  must  not  be  capped  singly,  otherwise 
they  will  fnj  and  tesr  ;  but  always  keep  two  or  three  in  your 
hand,  and  the  colour  will  be  much  better. 

TAe  proper  Method  of  iroHing  MmmUmm. 
When  you  have  clapped  the  muslins  and  dried  them  at  wdl 
as  yon  can,  puU  them  out  double  on  a  very  imootli  bond. 


ADVIOB  TO  FBMALB  ftSRTANTS.  tl9 

laying  abont  five  or  nc  en  eccfadtker.  Then  heat  yeur  iron 
md  pnt  it  into  the  bos,  •nd'when  tfa«  box  is  properly  heafed, 
tike  thatwhieh  k  lowest,  became  it  frill  be  more  dry  than  the 
others,  by  which  method  yon  will  not  only  prevent  them  fhmi 
fhiying,  hot  also  make  them  look  extMndiy  well.  Phdn  mas* 
lins  most  be  done  npen  a  wodkn  doth  very  soft  and  dean, 
but  coarse  ones  may  be  done  on  a  doth  that  is  more  damp  than 
the  other,  or  npon  the  onder  side  of  that  first  used. 

To  SidTCh  JjSWtiS* 

They  mast  we  washed  and  rinsed  in  the  same  manner  as 
maslins,  and  the  starch  must  be  as  thin  as  possible.  When 
yon  have  dipped  them  in  it,  take  them  oat  and  squeese  them 
hard,  in  order  to  force  out  the  wet,  and  then  dry  them  with 
a  fine  doth.  Take  cave  that  they  be  dappeif  properly  between 
yoor  hands,  otherwise  they  will  be  apt  to  receive  damage. 
When  you  have  folded  them  up,  put  them  into  a  dean  pan, 
bat  do  not  touch  them  with  any  wet,  otherwise  they  will  not 
look  so  well.  Let  the  cloth  upon  which  you  iron  them  be  dean 
and  smooth,  but  take  great  care  that  the  iron  be  not  too  hot, 
becaase  it  spdls  the  colours,  and  gives  them  a  ydlowish  ap- 
pearance. The  starch  must  be  made  for  the  purpose,  iot  that 
Used  for  muslin  will  not  be  proper,  but  rather  do  the  lawns  an 
hijary. 


INSTRUCTIONS  TO  HOUSEMAIDS. 

The  business  of  the  housemaid  is  to  look  after  and  keep 
the  ftimiture  clean,  in  the  execution  of  which  she  is  to  take 
her  instructions  from  the  housekeeper;  and  if  she  would  wish 
to  acquire  reputation  she  must  be  industrious  and  deanly. 

Eveijr  morning  her  first  business  must  be,  in  summer,  to 
rub  the  stoves  and  fire  irons  with  scouring  paper,  and  to  dean 
the  hearths.  In  winter,  she  must  first  rake  out  the  ashes^  and 
sweep  the  grate  very  dean ;  she  must  then  clean  the  irons, 
which,  if  the  common  sort,  may  be  done  by  rubbing  them. 


614  DOMESTIC- COOKIRT* 

first  with  a  rag  dipped  in  vinegar  and  tbe  ■ahes*  then  with  an 
oily  rag,  and  after  that  with  soouriog  paper«  rottOHrtcoe,  «r 
white  brick.  If  there  be  fine  steel  stovei  and  teders^  they 
should  be  first  rubbed  with  oil,  then  with  emery » till  clear  and 
bright^  and  next  with  scouring  paper*  This  is  also  an  excdlent 
paper  to  rub  irons  with  that  are  not  in  CQQstaot  use,  evcsy  two 
or  three  days,  as  it  will  take  off  any  spots  they  may  have  got 
in  that  time.  When  she  has  thus  prepared  the  stoye,  she  may 
light  the  fire,  and  wash  the  hearth  and  chimney-piece.  If  the 
latter  be  marble,  washing  it  once  a  week  is  sufficient,  whidi 
should  be  done  with  a  piece  of  flannel  dipped  in  a  lather  of 
hot  water  and  soap.  The  hearth  ought  to  be  cleaned  every 
morning.  Hearths  and  chimney-sides  of  steel  must  be  cleaned 
in  the  same  mannec4B  ^^^  ^^^1  stoves. 

After  the  fire-pfasM^  the  housemaid's  nixt  business  is  to  dean 
the  locks  of  the  doors.  In  doing  this  she  must  have  a  piece 
of  pasteboard  for  each,  with  a  hole  cut  in  it  just  big  enon^ 
for  slipping  over  the  lock,  to  preserve  the  doors,  to  .which  the 
same  side  of  the  pasteboard  should  always  be  applied,  finr 
the  dirty  side  .would  spoil  them.  The  locks  may  be  cleaned 
by  rubbing  them  with  an  oily  rag,  and  next  with  rotten-stoBe 
or  white  brick ;  but  she  must  be  very  careful  not  to  let  any 
of  the  two  last  get  into  the  key-hole.  Lacko^  locks  want 
no  other  cleaning  but  rubbing  with  a  piece  of  dean  leather  or 
woollen  doth ;  for  oil,  or  any  thing  damp,  hurts  their  odour. 

The  housemaid's  next  attention  should  be  to  thecarpets^ 
which  she  may  sweep  with  a  common  broom,  or  brush  with  a 
whisk  broom,  and  then  fold  them  back ;  after  which  she  ought 
to  sweep  the  room,  having  first  strewed  it  with  sand  pr^ty 
damp.  But,  before  she  sweeps  the  rooms,  she  should  brush 
and  clean  the  window  curtains,  and  with  a  broom  sweep  the 
windows,  and  behind  the  shutters.  She  must  not  apply  a 
brush  or  broom  to  any  pictures  or  frames^  but  only  blow  the 
dust  off  with  a  pair  of  bellows ;  though  she  may  now  and  then 
dust  them  with  a  very  soft  duster,  or  piece  of  flannel;  and 
she  should  also  blow  off  the  dust  ftom  the  wainscot>  china, 
and  stucco  work.  .  . 

When  she  has  swept  the  room,  and  taken  up  the  dust,  her 
next  business  is,  to  rub  the  wainscot  from  the  top  .to  the  bottom 
with  a  duster,  and  do  the  same  to  the  windows.    She  must 


ADVICB  TO  VSMAtB  SBRVANT8.  615  . 

thai  sweep  the  stain,  after  which  die  must  dust  the  wainscot 
and  bidusters  directly^  and  also  the  tops  4)f  the  doors. 

As  soon  as  the  fiunily  is  up,  the  housemaid  should  set  open 
the  windows  of  the  bed-chaml)ers»  and  uncover  the  beds  to 
aweelen  and  air  them,  which  will  be  a;  great  help  against  bugs 
and  fleas.  In  making  the.  beds,  she  should  begin  with  that 
first  aired,  taking  off  the  several  things  singly,  and  laying 
them  on  two  chairs^  .  without  letting  -them  touch  the  floor. 
She  should  shake  the  beds  well  every  day,  and  if  there  be  a 
mattress,  let  her  turn  it  at  least  once  a  week.  The  cleaning 
of  the  head  of  the  bed,  the  valances,  and  curtains,  with  a 
brush  or  whisk,  is  not  to  be  omitted ;  neither  should  she  forget 
to  sweep  clean  behind  and  under  the  bedsteads. 

Having  said  thus  much  with  respect  «» the  business  of  the 
housemaid,  we  shall  «ow  give  directiooa  ifor  the  method  of 
.executing  other  matters  that  come  under  her  province. 

To  preterve  Iran  from  Rn$t 

Dissolve  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  camphire  and  half  a  pound 
of  hog's  lard  together  over  a  very  slow  fire,  and  taking  off  the 
scum,  mix  as  much  black-lead  as  will  bring  them  to  an  iron 
colour.  Spread  this  composition  over  the  steel  and  iron  stoves, 
as  also  the  fire-irons.  Let  it  lie  on  them  for  twenty-four  hours, 
after  which  rub  them  with  a  dry  linen  doth,  and  they  will 
keep  without  rust  for  six  months. 

To  take  Rust  out  of  Steel. 
Cover  with  sweet  oil  well  rubbed  on  it;  in  forty-eight  hours 
use  unslacked  lime,  powdered  irery  thin.    Rub  it  till  the  rust 
disappears. 

^" 

w 

To  take  the  black  jiff  hright  Bars  of  polished  Stoves,  in  a  few 

Minutes. 

Boil  slowly  one  pound  of  soft  soap  in  two  quarts  of  water 
to  one.  Of  this  jelly  take  three  or  four  spooilfuls,  and  mix  to 
a  consistence  with  emery.  Rub  the  bars  well  with  the  mixture 
on  a  bit  of  broad  doth ;  when  the  dirt  is  removed,  wipe  them 
dean,  and  polish  with  glass,  not  sand  paper. 


•M  DOMLBSTIC.  COOKERY. 

To  clean  Bet^ks  of  Free$tomt. 

First,  Boonr  ikem  dem  with  cold  w«ter>  tMsp,  and  uaSd, 
then  take  two-pennyworth  of  black-lead^  and  a  quarter  of  a 
{loiind  of  coarse  brown  sugar ;  which,  being  well  mixed,  pat 
into  half  a  pint  of  small  beer>  and  set  on  a  6re,  stirring  the 
whole  with  a  stick  till  well  boiled.  Then  with  \  littte  brush 
black  the  sides  and  bottooH  of  the  heakh  at  least'  twice  over: 
and  next  day,  when  ihejr  are  quite  dry,  rob  them  wetll  with  a 
hard  brush,  and  if  they  be  smooth,  anA  not  broke,  they  wiH 
Ipok  like  steel.  ■  The  bottom  on  which  the  grate  stands '  w9 
require  more  firequent  repetition,  as  the  blacking  wears  9ocio€t 
off  than  on  the  sides,  which  will  keep  bright  for  some  weAv, 
or  perhaps  months* 

*'E$i  clem  Brick  HemMt. 

Mix  -some  milk  with  brickdust,  and  lay  it  upon  a  coarab 
woollen  cloth,  thra  take  it  and  rub  the  hearth,  and  it  will  have 
a  fine  appearance; 

To  clean  Marble  Chimney-ptecee,  Spc. 

Take  a  bullock's  gall,  a  gill  of  soap-lees,  half  a  giU  of  tur- 
pentine, and  make  it  ii|to  a  paste  with  pipe-^^y ;  then  apply 
it  to  the  marble,  and  let  it  dry  a  day  or  two;  then  nib  it 
off;  and  if  not  clean  apply  it  a  second  or  third  time,  until  it 
thoroughly  succeeds. 

To  blacken  theTronts  of  Stone  Chhnney-pieces. 

Mix  some  oil  variiiah,  with  lamp-black,  and  a  little  spstits 
of  tuzpenti|ie>  with  which  make  it  of  the  consistence  of  pfdnt. 
Wash  the  stone  with  soap  and  water  quite  clean ;  then  sponge 
it  with  clear  water ;  when  quite  dry,  brush  it  twice  over  with 
the  colour,  letting  it  dry  between  the  times. 

7%e  best  Way  to  clean  a  Room. 

Rub  both  the  brush  and  mop  with  the  grain,  that  is,  with 
the  length  of  the  board,  and  not  across  the  breadth,  neither  let 
the  boards  be  wet  too.  .much,  because  it  soaks  in  and  hurtf 
tbero.  Rub  them  hard  with  fine  dry  sand,  and  take  care  noj^ 
to  wet  too  much  of  the  room  at  one  time;  and  the  sooner  yon 


ADVICE  TO  FBMALB  SBRVANTS.  617 

have  done  it  the  better.  When  too  much  water  is  thrown  cm 
the  boards,  it  takes  up  more  time  to  clean  it  than  if  a  small 
part  was  wetted  at  once,  and  the  boards- will  always  look  more 
black  and  spongy.  When  you  intend  to  dry«rub  it,  let  it  first 
be  quite  dry,  and  then  take  a  doth  and  rub  it  clean,  throwing 
over  it  some  fine  sand,  and  sweep  it  as  clean  as  possible.  Let 
the  skirting  boards  be  rubbed  with  a  piece  of  oily  flannel,  and 
they  will  look  as  if  newly  painted ;  but  no  part  of  the  floor, 
for  that  will  spoil  it.  Neither  fuller's  earth  nor  common  saitd 
ought  to  be  used,  as  they  are  sure  to  make  some  impressiota. 

To  clean  Paint. 

Never  use  a  cloth ;  take  off  the  dust  with  a  little  long*haired 
brush,  after  blowing  off  the  loose  parts  with  the  bellows* 
With  care,  paint  will  look  well  for  a  long  time.  When  soiled^ 
dip  a  sponge  or  bit  of  flannel  into  soda  and  water,  and  wash  it 
off  quickly,  and  dry  it  immediately,  or  tlie  strength  of  the  soda 
will  eat  off  the  colour. 

When  wainscot  is  scoured,  it  should  be  done  from  the  top 
downwards ;  the  suds  should  be  prevented  rom  ruuniog  as 
much  as  possible,  or  it  will  make  marks  that  cannot  be  got  oat. 
One  person  should  dry  with  soft  linen  cloths  as  fast  as  the  other 
has  scoured  off  the  dirt,  and  washed  the  soda  off. 

To  clean  Stairt, 

Stairs  are  to  be  cleaned  in  the  same  manner  as  rooms,  only 
it  is  necessary  to  observe,  that  if  you  keep  your  face  always 
to  the  ascent,  they  will  have  a  much  better  appearance,  and 
you  will  be  more  able  to  do  them  soon  and  well.  Let  the 
haircloth  be  swept  once  every  day,  and  once  a  week  taken  up, 
and  the  dust  shaken  out  of  it ;  then  scour  them  down,  and 
when  diy,  lay  the  cloth  on  again.  When  the  stairs  are  of 
atone,  let  them  be  scoured  with  sand  and  water,  but  boards 
must  be  rubbed  with  a  piece  of  oily  flannel,  and  they  will  look 

if  newly  painted. 


To  clean  Windows.     - 

To  do  this  properly,  there  must  be  two  persons,  one  without 
and  another  within ;  rub  them  over  with  a  thick  damp  cloth, 
and  then  with  a  dry  one;  and  if  any  spots  remain,  do  them 

3S  4  k 


I 


618  DOMESTIC  COOKBRY. 

over  with  whiting,  and  when  they  are  clean  and'dry  iImj  wiU 
look  extfemely  w^ll. 

Ta  ketp  SMr§,  Tabka,  und  Boards pttan^  and  of  a  kwmik 

Cohut,  wUkout  WoMmg* 
Take  a  few  handiiilsof  l>alm^  tansey^  and  mint,  and  strew 
them  on  the  floor  or  tahle  afler  you  have  swept  them  dean; 
then  take  a  long  hard  brushy  and  rub  the  greens  against  tbe 
boards  till  Uiey  appear  bright ;  then  sweep  off  the  greens,  and 
the  floor  will  look  like  mahogany,  without  any  washing,  and 
the  room  will  have  a  fine  smell.  These  herbs  are  best,  and 
where  they  cannot  be  had,  you  may  use  fennel  or  any  thing 
green,  and  the  rooms  will  not  only  look  fine  and  brown,  but 
also  have  a  fragrant  smell. 

To  clean  Stone  Stairs,  Halls,  Sfc. 
Boil  together  half  apint«ach^  of  size  and  stone-blue  water, 
with  two  table-spoonfuls  of  whitings  and  two  cakes  of  pipe- 
i6aaker*s  clay,  in  about  two  quarts  of  water.  Wash  the  stones 
over  with  a  ffatinel  wetted  with  the  mixture  ;  and,  when  drji 
rub  them  with  a  flannel  and  a  brush.  Some  recommend  beer, 
but  water  is  preferable. 

To  clean  Oil^cloths  that  are  laid  on  Floon* 
The  best  method  of  keeping  these  in  proper  order  Vk,  to 
dry-rub  them  every  day>  because  it  not  only  keeps  them  dein, 
but  also  preserves  them  belter  than  any  thing  that  can  be 
mentioned,  for  when  mops  are  used  they  soon  wear  out.  Once 
every  week  let  them  be  turned  upside  down;  and  onoe  eveiy 
month  let  them  be  rubbed  over  with  railk^  and  hung  out  to 
dry;  then  let  them  be  rubbed  over  widi  a  clodi^  add  they  wiB 
look  as  well  as  at  the  first. 

To  clean  Floor-cloths. 
Sweep  and  clean  the  floor-cloths  with  a  broom  and  damp 
flannel,  in  the  usual  nuinner ;  then  wet  them  alL,over  with 
milk,  and  rub  them  till  bright  with  a  dry  doth.  They  will 
thus  look  as  well  as  if  they  were  rubbed  with  a  waxed  flannel, 
without  being  so  slippery,  or  so  soon  clogged  with  dust  or  dirt. 


ADVICB  TO  VBMALB  88RVANTS.  tiM 

Those  floor-cloths  dbimli  be  chosen  which  are  painted  on 
Stk^  ctolb ;  that  are  wdl  covered  with  colour,  and  in  which  the 
flf>wers  do  nol  rise  much  above  the  ground,  .as  thej  wear  out 
first  The  durability  of.  the  doth  depencb  greatly  on  thea^ 
things,  )>i|t  move,  particularly  on  the  time  that  it  has  been 
painted,  aiaid  the  goodness  of  the  cobura.  If  tfiey  have  net 
been  allowed  a  sufficient  time  for  beeointng  perfectly  dry,  a 
very  little  use  will  injure  them.  As  they  are  very  expensive, 
great  care  is  necessary  in  preserving  them  from  injuries. 

It  answers  very  well  to  keep  them,  some  time  before  they 
ore  used,  in  a  dry  spare  room.  When  they  are  taken  up  for 
the  winter,  they  should  be  rolled  round  a  carpet  roller :  the 
edges  should  not  be  turned  in  too  close,  or  it  will  crack  the 
paint. 

.  Old  carpets  answer  very  well  painted;  they  should  be 
seasoned  some  months  before  they  are  laid  down.  The  width 
Aay  are  wished  to  be  of,  should  be  specified  when  they  are  sent 
to'the  painters; 

To  clean  Carpets. 

Take  up  the  carpet,  and  let  it  be  well  beaten,  then  laid 
down,  and  brushed  on  both  sides  with  a  hand-brush ;  turn  it 
the  right  side  upwards,  and  scour  it  with  gall  and  soap  and 
water  very  clean,  and  dry  it  with  linen  cloths.  Then  lay  it  on 
the  gtass,  or  hang  it  up  to  dry. 

To  dust  Carphts  and  Floors. 

Sprinkle  tea-leaves,  then  sweep  carefully.  Carpets  should 
not  be  Bwept  frequently  with  a  whisk  brush,  as  it  wears  them 
very  fast;  about  once  a  week  is  sufficient;  at  other  times  use 
tea-leaves  and  a  hair  brush. 

To  clean  Chairs. 

Drop  some  linseed  oil  upon  a  woollen  rag,  and  rub  the  chairs 
Willi  it,  imd  then  rub  them  hard  with  a  dry  cloth  until  they 
iqpfpear  bright ;  then  rub  some  yellow  wax  on  a  hard  brush, 
and  brush  them  all  over;  then  take  a- rough  woollen*  cloth,  and 
again  nib  tihem';  and  they  will  look  as  well  as  when  new. 


1 
€20  DOMESTIC  COOKBRY. 

ToelecnTiMes. 

WheD  you  have  rubbed  them  hard  with  a  doth,'  mix 
brick  with  linseed  oil,  and  rub  them  over  as  hard  aa  yoa  cm. 
Until  they  are  quite  dean ;  then  rub  aome  yellow  wax  on  a 
hard  brush,  and  brush  them  till  they  are  so  dean  that  you 
may  see  your  face  in  them ;  then  rub  them  with  a  flannd  doth, 
and  they  will  have  a  fine  appearance. 

An  useful  Receipt  to  take  Spots  out  of  Boards  and  large  TMes- 

Make  some  lye  of  wood  ashes,  and  mix  it  with  a  few  galls, 
•then  put  it  on  the  spots  the  evening  before  you  intend  to  dean 
them.  In  the  morning  rub  the  boards  hard  with  a  brush,  and 
if  it  is  a  floor  you  must  do  it  on  your  knees.  Let  it  be  with 
the  grain,  and  take  some  fine  sand  at  the  second  soouiiiq^; 
when  they  are  dry,  take  a  coarse  woollen  cloth,  and  rub  diem 
clean,  until  you  see  no  spots  remaining.  When  you  have 
brought  them  to  a  right  colour,  and  can  distinguish  the  grain, 
then  wash  them  with  cold  water  and  sand.  Hot  water  mual 
not  be  used,  as  it  opens  the  grain  of  the  boards,  and  hard 
water  always  spoils  the  colour. 

To  poUsk  Mahogany  Tables,  ^c. 

Take  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  the  finest  white  soap,  grate 
it  small,  and  put  it  into  a  new  glazed  earthen  vessel,  with  a  pint 
of  water ;  hold  it  over  the  fire  till  the  soap  is  dissolved ;  then 
add  the  same  quantity  of  bleached  wax  cut  into  small  pieces, 
and  three  ounces  of  common  lyax ;  as  soon  as  the  whole  ia  in- 
corporated, it  is  fit  for  use. 

Wh^  you  use  it;,  clean  the  table  well,  dip  abit  of  flannd  in 
the  varnish  while  warm,  and  nib  it  on  the  table;  let  it  stand  a 
qonuter  of  an  hour,  then  apply  die  hard  brush  in  all  directioni, 
and  finish  with  a  bit  of  dean  dry  flannel.  This  will  prodim  a 
gloss  like  a  mirror.  > 

To  take  Ink  Stains  out  of  Mahogsmj/. 
Put  a  few  drops  of  spirit  of  sea^t,  or  oil  of  vitriol,  in  a 
tea-spoonful  of  water:  touch  the  stain  or  qpot  with  a  feather; 
and,  on  the  ink's  disappearing  rub  it  over  immediatdj  with  a 
rag  wetted  in  cold  water,  or  there  will  be  a  white  marie  which 
win  not  be  easily  effaced. 


ADVICE  TO  VBMALE  SERVANTS.  §21 

To  give  a  fine  Colour  to  Mahogany* 

'  Ink  and  other  stains  being  removed^  wash  the  fumitore  with 
vinegar^  and  then  nib  it  all  over  with  a  red  mixture  made  in 
the  following  manner  :^Put  into  it  a  pint  of  cold-drawn  linseed 
oil^  four  penny  weMh  of  alkanet  root,  and  two  of  rose-pink ; 
stir  them  well  together  in  an  earthen  vessel,  and  let  them  re- 
main all  nighty,  when  the  mixture^  being  again  well  stirred, 
will  be  immediately  fit  for  use.  After  it  has  been  left  an  hour 
on  the  furniture,  it  may  be  rubbed  off  with  linen  cloths  till 
briB^t;  it  will  soon  have  a  beantifiil  colour  as  well  as  a  glossy 
appearance. 

To  clean  old  Pictures. 

Take  two  ounces  of  borax,  and  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of 
Soman  vitriol^  beat  them  together  till  they  are  very  small,  then 
let  thein  be  sifted  through  a  fine  lawn  sieve:  when  you  have 
rubbed  the  dust  off  the  picture,  then  lay  it  flat  on  the  ground^ 
and  throw  some  of  the  powder  over  the  canvas ;  dip  a  brush  in 
water,  and  mb  the  picture  over  carefully  until  it  is  quite  dean* 
Take  no  more  water  than  will  wet  the  powder,  and  when  you 
find  the  picture  begins  to  appear  clean,  wash  off  the  dust  with 
ft  wet  brush,  and  set  it  up  to  dry  in  a  place  not  too  much 
exposed  to  the  sun.  Then  take  a  litde  linseed  oil,  and  when 
the  picture  begins  to  be  dry,  rub  it  over  with  a  feather  dipped 
in  the  oil.  Don't  let  them  dry  too  soon,  for  the  longer  they 
stand  they  will  have  the  more  transparent  colour. 

To  clean  and  freeerve  Qildiug. 

It  is  quite  impossible  to  prevent  the  flies  from  staining  the 
gilding  without  oovering  it;  before  which,  blow  off  the  light 
dust,  and  let  a  feather  or  clean  brush  pass  over  it:  then  with 
strips  of  paper  cover  the  frames  of  your  glasses,  and  do  not 
reni^ve  it  till  the  flies  are  gone. 

linen  takes  off  the  gilding,  and  deadens  its  brightness :  it 
should  therefore  never  be  used  to  it. 

Some  means  should  be  used  to  destroy  the  fltes,  as  they 
injure  finrnitore  of  every  kind,  as  well  as  the  paper.  Bottles 
httig  i^ut  with  sugar  and  vinegar,  or  beer,  will  attract  them. 
Or,  fly-waSsr,  pm  into  the  bottom  of  a  saucer,  should  be  used. 


Bemove  Ay-^taintr.Q^.Migr.odiev.aflll^  fegfa  dlM|i  ng;  iben 
potiih  widi  wteUta-.cbth  and  powder-Uneb 

,  , ,  .  J#  $lfia»Paf0r  Hanging^. 
Gat  A  quaBtern  lod^.  tieo  dajs  old^  iola  eight  lMiilf-*qiiarUi3ii 
0lf>w  off  tlw  dttst  with  a  pair  of  beUawa:  begin  with  oneof 
the  pieces  at  die  tap  of  the  tbom  ^  hoftd  the  cniil  in  yamr  fcaod^ 
and.vipe  lighdy  doivmarard  mkk  the  cnunli,  about  half  a.  yaad 
«t  each  stroke^  tiU.  the  tipper  part  of  the  hangtiiga  la  compli^tdy 
cleaned  all  round.  Then  go  round  again^  with  the  like  aieaph 
ing  stroke  downward;  always  commencing  each  sacoeasive 
course  a  little  higher  th«i  the  jipper  atvoJke  had  extended,  till 
the  bottom  be  finifihed*  This,  if  carefully  done^  will  fmi^i^tly 
make  very  old  paper  look  almost  equal  to  new.  Great  cantien 
must  be  used  not  to  rub.the  papftr  bar4^  nor  to  attempt  ctean- 
^  it  the  cross  or  horizontal  way^  ^l^  dirty  part  of  the  braa^ 
,:^o^  must  be  each  time  cut  away^  and  the  pieces  renewed  aa 
^aasitin  ^t  all  necessary. 

• 

Cnmble  fona  bella  of  good  whitings  two  penny  wovth  eioh 
of  apirita  of  wine  and  ciniphire,  apirita  of  hartshorn,  and  spirits 
of  turpentine.  Sbnse  aaa  half  an  ponce  of  quickaihrer,  but  Ifaia 
ia«Dnaidered  to-  have  a  bad  effeet  on  the  plate,  and. gives  it  a 
britdeness  which  fendcea^i^  liable  to  be  broken*  If,  however, 
it  is  used,  it  should  be  put  into  a  phial,  with  about  half  the 
turpendne,  and  ahakcn^t^lhv^quickailver  he  killed;  then  mix 
«U  the  ingae^ieats  t^ettier^  Bf^  th^  whc4a  is  fit  for  use.  ^  The 
qoiekulyar  and  a  Hide  turpentine  should  be  first  beaten  up 
irithaakew^inaiiirge:Ci>pftj  titt  ^  jthickas  aalve;  and,  after 
it  is.diuA.BAadiV  -suff^ed  to  griow  dry,  a.li^  of  it  beii|g  wetted 
widi  water  when  used.  This  luiiitttre  should  be  rtlbbed  cy  the 
ylatie  w^  s^  leadier  ;  irlli^h  i;ftu4t  be  caisefbUy  kcyt,  as  it  gets 
the  better  for  use. 

.    Tqmwt  mi  taka  Status, oml  of  SibtrPkU^  ife. 

Steep  the  plate  iu  soi^lees  for  the  space  of  ibnr  hooss  ^ 
then  rub  it  over  with  wfaidng^  iret  whh  vinsgfu-,  so  that  it  may 


tile  wl»tiaf»  tad  fma  ttovfnr  'wiUI  (fry  boM,  tod  t&e  spots  wtn 
mA  ^ilgr  dis^a^^ear,  but  it  will  look  eaoceadiagly  bngbL 

PlMte  PowAar. 

* 

Wltttiagpfloperly  parified  fimn  aand,  applied  wet,  attd  ndi- 
bed  till  difi  iBKaie  cf  tiie  e»te»t,  safest,  and  oerttinly  cheiqmt, 
<if  all  pkle'  powdeh^s ;  jewflllers  and  gitvemntths;  ftr  trifling 
aftides,  feMam  Uie  any  tiiif^  ciae.  If,  however,  the  plate  foe 
bailed  a  Ikifle  in  water,  witfa  an  ounce  of  calcined  faaruhorn  ia 
powder  to  idioiit  tfaiBe  fiintB  of  water,  then  drained  over  die 
teasel  in  wHidi  it  ww  boiled,  and  dried  hy  the  &e,  it  will  look 
better.  Sodie  aofl  linen  rags  shooid  be  boikd  in  the  Kqaid  till 
they  have  whoiljr  imbibed  it,  and  these  rags  will,  when  dry, 
not  only  help  to  «lean  the  plate,  which  mufit  afterwards  be 
rubbcid  :faright  with  leather,  hot  also  clean  bxMB  locks,  finger 
plates,  &c. 

Tq  ckan  Block^in  Dhlht&nerM,  Pdttmt  Pewter,  t^e. 
Where  the  polish  is  gone  off,  first  rub  the  artide  «ver  Ae 
outside  with  a  little  aweet  oil,  on  a  piece  of  soft  linen  doth ; 
then  clear  it  off  with  dry  whiting,  quite  free  from  sanc^  on 
finen  cloths,  whidi  witl  make  them  look  as  well  as  when  new« 
nie'insides  should  be  rubbed  with  rags  moistened  in  wet 
wfaSting,  but  without  oil.  Always  wiping  these  articles  dry, 
tHieh  brought  from  table,  and  keeping  them  free  from  steam 
or  other  damp,'  greaily  lessens  the  trouble  of  deaning  them. 
Where  these  cautions  are  disregarded  long,  particularly  with 
regard  to  tin,  the  articles  soon  get  beyond  the  power  of  being 
ever  restored  to  their  original  brightness. 


INSTRUCTIONS  TO  LAUNDRY-MAIDS. 

As  the  lavndryimaid  is  the  person  -to  whom  ikte  care  of  the 
linen  is  oommitted,  it  ia  moat  common  for  her  to  be  brought 
up  to  it ;  but  yet  any  young  wt>nan  of  tdlerable  dblKties  may 


824  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

ioon  learn  it,  bb  all  women  are  more  or  less  aoqaainted  wiik 
washing.  Where  linen  is  either  badly  washed,  or  not  properly 
got  up,  it  soon  wears;  and  one  bad  washing  does  more  hurt 
than  ten  times  using  it.  See  that  every  part  of  the  linen  be 
mended  properly  before  you  begin  to  wash,  and  when  washed, 
let  it  be  done  upas  soon  as  possible,  otherwise  it  will  be  apt  to 
assume  a  bad  colour,  so  that  your  mistress  will  certainly  com- 
plain. Be  extremely  regular  in  your  stated  days  for  washings 
and  never  take  a  woman  to  assist  you  without  leave  from  year 
mistress.  Let  all  your  tubs  and  other  vesseb  be  kept  clean, 
and  never  waste  soap  or  any  other  materials,  but  use  them  with 
the  same  frugality  as  if  they  had  been  purchased  by  yourself. 
It  is  the  practice  in  many  parts  of  England,  for  the  laundry- 
maids  to  rise  very  early,  and  moat  certainly  on  the  washing  day 
it  is  best,  because,  they  will  have  the  work  over  before  the 
evening ;  but  on  the  other  days  they  may  enjoy  equal  indal* 
gence  with  their  fellow-servants. 

Having  said  thus  much  relative  to  the  laundry-nuud,  we 
shall  now  lay  down  such  further  directions  as  may  easily  asost 
her  in  ^e  executioti  of  her  budness.  , 

To  prepare  l,inen  far  Washing, 

First  look  the  linen  carefully  ov^,  and  then  mend  erery 
place  where  you  find  it  torn,  otherwise  if  it  is  washed  the  r^its 
will  be  much  worse  than  before.  When  that  is  done,  let  ft 
be  carefully  folded  up,  and  put  into  a  bag,  to  prevent  its 
gathering,  more  dirt,  for  the  cleaner  it  is  kept,  the  mere  easily 
it  will  wash,  and  also  be  the  better  for  the  linen ;  for  as  much 
has  been  lost  *by  the  carelessness  of  servants,  or  bad  laundiy- 
maids,  as  by  wearing. 

C&nceming  the  Water. 

Do  not  wash  with  any  sort  of  water,  unless  it  has  stood  two 
or  three  days,  for  when  ifewly  taken  in,  it  is  always  thick  and 
muddy;  if  it  is  from  a  stream  that  has  a  muddy  bottom,  ft 
will  be  better  to  let  it  stand  four  days. 

Concerning  Soap. 

New  made  soap  always  spoils  the  linen,  theiefiire  make 
choice  of  the  oldest  you  can  get,  as  it  will  be  of  much '  moie 
servfoe,  and  make  Ae  dothei  look  better. 


ADVICE  TO  FEMALB  SERVANTS.  626 

Sdda^  by  softening  the  water,  saves  a  great  deal  of  soap, 
ft  should  be  melted  in  a  large  jug  of  water,  some  of  which 
pottr  into  the  tubs  and  boiler ;  and  when  the  lather  becomes 
weak,  add  more.  The  new  improvement  in.  soft  soap  is,  if 
properly  used,  a  saving  of  near  half  in  quantity ;  and  though 
something  dearer  than  die  -hard,  reduces  iSie  price  of  washing 
consuta^bly. 

Many  good  laundresses  advise  seafMng  linen  in  warm  v/wMt 
the  night  previous  to  washing,  as  facilitating  the  operatioil 
with  less  fiiction. 

Soap  sho«ild  be  aat  widi  a  wire  or  twine.  In  pieces  that  will 
make  a  long  sqoaM,  when  lirst  brought  in,  and  kept  oilt  of  liie 
mir  two  or  duree  weeks ;  for  if  it  dry  quick,  ii  wUl  crack,  and 
when  wet,  bveak.  Put  it  on  a  shetf,  leaving  a  spice  between, 
and  let  it  grow  hard  gradually.  Thns  it  will  save  a  Aill  third 
in  the  consumption. 

Direction  eonceming  W4igking. 
Wfato  you  have  cleaned  your  copper,  fill  it  to  heat,  and 
wbaa  you  have  aorted  your  idflihef  properly,  let  ibiem  be 
rubbed  over  with  soap,  taking  care  to  put  most  on  the  dirty 
places,  and  then  wash  the  finest  first.  Let  not  the  water  be 
too  hot.  When  you  have  washed  the  fine  linen,  take  it  out 
and  lay  it  on  a  fdean  place ;  then  wash  the  coarse,  which  will 
take  a  good  deed  mare  washing  than  i(he  other;  then  soap  the 
Im^n  over  again,  and  kt  it  be  washed  a  second  time  in  water 
more  hot  than  the  form^. 

To  bail  Linen. 

As  soon  as  you  have  put  the  water  on,  mix  with  it  some 
stone  blue,  and  when  you  have  soaped  the  linen,  let  it  bp  put 
in  to  boil ;  when  it  has  boiled  ten  or  fifteen  mimrtes,  according 
to  the  n«ture  of  the  linen,  for  that  which  is  coarse  will  tabe 
mueh  B)ore  tham  the  fine,  then  pat  the  water  with  the  linen 
into  the  tub,  and  let  it  stand  till  it  is  cold  enough  for  you  to 
hold  your  hand  in  it ;  then  wash  the  linen  quite  clean,  taking 
care  n^t  Uf  kave  any  pieeea  of  spap  upon  it,  for  if  you  do  it 
will  look  greasy.  As  soon  as  you  have  washed  the  different 
pieces,  let  them  be  thrown  into  clear  pump- water,  mixed  with 
stone  blue,  then  rinse  it  perfectly  clean,  and  when  you  have 
23  4l 


&26  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

wrung  it^  hang  up  the  different  pieces  of  linen  at  a  moderate 
distaqce  from  each  other;  and  when  they  are  dry,  fold  them 
carefully  up  until  they  are  ironed^  which  must  be  as  soon  sui 
you  conveniently  can. 

Directions  for  Ironing. 

If  you  use  flat-irons^  be  sure  to  rub  them  smooth  against  a 
mat,  until  they  are  very  bri^t,  and  then  rub  them  with  a 
smooth  flannel,  which  must  be  done  every  time  they  come  to 
the  fire.  It  will  be  better  for  the  linen,  that  you  use  the  iron 
as  hot  as  you  can,  only  take  care  to  try  it  on  a  rag,  lest  it 
damage  the  lindn.  Sprinkle  a  few  drops  of  water  upon  the 
linen  before  you  begin  to  iron,  always  taking  care  to  put  more 
water  to  the  fine  than  the  coarse.  The  water  makes  it  more 
pliable  in  ironing,  and  more  stiff  afterwards. 

To  take  Stains  made  by  Fruit  out  of  Unen. 

Take  some  freah  butter,  and  rub  it  over  all  the  stains,  then 
put  it  into  a  tub,  and  pour  upon  it  scalding  milk  ;  when  it  is 
cold,  let  the  stains  be  washed  with  the  milk  until  they  are 
perfectly  out. 

To  take  out  Spots  made  hy  Ink. 

Put  the  stained  places  in  vin^ar  mixed  with  suet,  where  it 
must  be  all  night;  wash  it  in  the  mor&ing  in  the  vin^ar,  and 
you  will  see  the  spots  become  more  dull  and  faint ;  then,  put 
more  vinegar  to  it,  and  when  it  has  laid  another  night,  let  it 
be  washed  in  the  same  manner,  and  the  spots  will  infidlibly 
vanish* 

To  take  out  the  Mildew. 

Mix  soft  soap  with  starch  powdered^  half  as  much  salt,  and 
the  juiceof  a  lemon;  lay  it  on  the  part  on  both  sides  with  a 
painter's  brush.  Let  it  lie  on  the  grass  day  and  night  till  the 
stain  comes  out 

To  make  Flannels  keep  their  Colour  and  not  shrink. 

Put  them  into  a  pail,  and  pour  boiling  water  on,  ktting 
them  lie  till  cold,  the  first  time  of  washing. 


ADVICB  TO  FEMALE  SERVANTS.  627 


INSTRUCTIONS  TO  COOK-MAIDS. 

X  HE  knowledge  of  cookery  is  essentially  necessary  to  every 
'woman,  unless  her  station  in  life '  is  of  very  elevated  rank. 
She  who  undertakes  to  be  cook  in  a  family  ought  to  be  well 
acquainted  with  the  qualities  of  provisions  in  general^  and  also 
of  the  most  proper  methods  used  in  dressing  them,  which  is 
first  acquired  by  attending  to  proper  directions  laid  down  for 
that  purpose,  and  then  the  reducing  of  those  to  practice.  The 
importance  of  a  good  kitcken-doctress,  or  cook,  is  clearly  illus- 
trated by  the  following  interesting  observations,  fr6m  the  pen 
of  a  celebrated  physician. 

'  The  stomach/  says  Dr.  Hunter,  '  is  the  chief  org^n  of  the 
human  system,  upon  the  state  of  which  all  the  powers  and 
feelings  of  the  individual  depend.  The  stomach  is  the  kitchen 
that  prepareb  our  discordant  food,  and  which,  after  due  mace- 
ration,  it  delivers  over,  by  a  certain  undulatory  motion,  to  the 
ihtestines,  when  it  receives  a  further  concoction.  Being  now 
reduced  into  a  white  balmy  fluid,  it  is  sucked  up  by  a  set  of 
small  vessels,  called  lacteals,  and  carried  to  the  thoracic  duct. 
This  duct  runs  up  the  back  bone,  and  is  in  length  about 
sixteen  inches,  but  in  diameter  it  hardly  exceeds  a  crow-quill. 
Through  this  small  tube  the  greater  part  of  what  is  taken  in 
at  Ae  mouth  passes,  and  is  discharged  into  the  left  subclavian 
vein,  when  mixing  with  the  general  mass  of  blood  it  becomes 
blood  itself.' 

A  cook-maid  ought  to  keep  herself  neat  and  clean,  be  care- 
fbl  in  attending  to  her  business, '  and  never  intrust  any  person 
with  doing  part  of  her  work  unless  in  her  presence,  that  she 
may  see  that  things  are  properly  conducted ;  for  when  any  sort 
of  victuals  is  spoiled,  the  cook  is  sure  to  be  blamed.  She  knows 
how  victuals  are  dressed  when  she  sees  them  done,  but  she 
cannot  answer  for  what  is  dressed  out  of  her  sight.  She 
ought  also  to  take  great  care  of  the  meat,  and  never  encourage 
people  to  come  after  her ;  nor  give  any  away  unless  she  .first 
obtain  the  consent  of  her  lady  or  housekeeper.  It  is  a  sort  of 
theft  to  give  that  away  which  is  not  her  own ;  but  if  she  attend 


0*28  SK>MBSTIC  COOKBRY. 

to  the  above  rules  she  will  acquire  the  good-will  of  all  who 
know  her,  and  on  every  future  occasion  have  an  unblemished 
character  from  her  lady. 


DIRECTIONS  TO  KITCHEN-MAIDS. 

JSy  whatever  means  either  man  or  woman  procures  a  Uveli- 
hood,  if  it  is  but  in  an  honest  way,  they  ought  not  to  be  treat- 
ed with  contempt :  for  we  are  all  as  so  many  links  of  the  same 
chain ;  every  one  contributes  to  the  support  of  his  neighbour  ; 
and  the  woman  who  does  the  most  servile  work  in  a  family,  is 
entitled  to  respect  in  proportion  as  her  service  is  labarionsL 
Let  the  young  woman,  therefore,  who  is  obliged  to  submit  to 
that  drudgery^  be  content  with  the  station  in  which  ProvideDce 
has  placed  her,  without  repining,  always  remembering  that 
humility  is  the  road  to  preferment,  and  the  more  submissive 
she  is  in  a  low  station,  the  better  she  will  be  qualified  for  aa 
devated  one. 

As  the  scullery-maid's  busiqess  is  to  keep  the  different  rooms, 
such  as  kitchen,  paptry,  wash-house,  &c.  dean,  so  it  ia  her 
duty  to  take  great  care  that  nothing  be  lost  from  them^  nor 
any  stranger  admitted ;  for  if  things  be  lost  the  blame  wiU 
naturally  fall  on  her,  although  she  may  be  innocent.  Let  her 
take  great  care  that  all  the  dishes  and  other  things  committed  to 
her  care  be  kept  in  proper  order,  so  that  when  the  cook  or 
any  of  the  servants  want  them,  they  may  always  be  deap,  and 
ready  for  immediate  use. 

She  must  also  be  very  careful  of  her  coppers  and  brass  veaels. 
These,  immediately  after  use,  should  be  filled  with  water^ 
(which  prevents  the  tinning  from  coming  off)  and  afterwards 
wiped  and  dried ;  for  if  they  be  pot,  they  gather^  as  well  when 
empty  as  when  fat  is  left  in  them,  a  green  substance,  which  is 
rank  poison,  or  at  least  causes  terrible  and  lasting  di9pppden, 
especially  to  those  who  eat  first  what  is  dressed  in  then. 


ADVICB  TO  V9MAIM  8BRVANTS. 


Qcqpper  and  bri^  flpoooe^  especially  thoae  called  white  mctat 
spoons,  ahould  also  be  takeif  particiilar  care  of;  for  they  gathes 
a  greenish  poison,  and  n<»lhing  abpiild  at  any  rate  be  warmed 
ia  tiwm  over  a  fire«  Srolhs  and  soups  should  not  be  left  longer 
standing  in  Ae  porridge-pot,  than  while  dinner  is  taking  ap» 
Fixed  cej^^s  should  hard  the  fire  drawn  from  under  tbem  as 
soon  as  they  are  used,  and  scoured  with  a  brush  and  sand 
whilst  boll.  The  «uitsides  of  tinned  coppetf  utensib  should  be 
also  sqottBSd  with  a  bmsh  and  sand ;  but  not  the  insides,  for 
the  sand  will  take  off  the  tin,  from  whidi  any  specks  may  be 
removed  by  scraping  with  the  nails.  The  dressers  should  be 
scrubbed  with  water  and  soap,  or  wood  ashes,  either  of  them 
being  preferable  to  sand  or  fuller's  earth,  on  account  of  their 
grittiness ;  and  it  should.be  a  constant  maxim  not  to  throw  the 
dirty  waters  down  the  sewen,  if  it  can  be  conveniently  carried 
into  the  street;  for  it  ia  very  apt  to  stop  the  drains,  and  cause 
a  disagreeable  smell. 

Wh^i  the  kitchen-maid  has  finidied  her  work  for  the  day^* 
let  her  be  sure  to  make  herself  clean,  but  never  attempt  ta 
dress  above  her  station,  nor  refuse  her  assistance  to  any  of  Ae 
othtt  servants. 


DIRECTIONS  TO  NURSERY-MAIDS. 

JuLTHOUGH  wehavcj  for  the  sake  of  connexion  and  con- 
veniency,  placed  the  nursery-maid  after  those  engaged  in  house- 
hold work,  yet  the  dignity  of  her  situation  ought  to  rank  her 
very  high  in  the  esteem  of  her  employers.  Indeed,  the  nursing 
and  rearing  of  children  is  a  business  of  tbe  highest  importance, 
as  their  future  health  and  happiness  essentially  depend  on  the 
judgment  and  attention  of  their  nurses.  You  must  therefore 
consider  well  the  nature  of  the  charge  committed  to  your 
care,  and  always  act  with  such  caution,  fidelity,  and  tendemeaa^ 
as  may  secure  the  approbation  of  your  own  conscience,  and  the 


1130  DOMESTIC  COOKBRT. 

lasting  esteem  of  those,  whose  minds  first  received  impressions 
of  virtue  and  gratitude  from  your  judicious  instructions. 

Nurses  from  ignorance  are  frequently  betrayed  into  a  variety 
of  fiital  mistakes,  which  we  shall  endeavour  to  point  out  This 
important  isubject  ought  to  be  carefully  studied  by  all  oonsd- 
entious  nurses,  as  we  are  sure  it  will  be  perused  with  pleasure 
by  eveiy  tender  and  radohal  mother.     - 

Nurses  should  be  endowed  with  such  a  portion  of  good 
sense,  as  may  render  them  capable  of  profiting  by  observation 
and  experience.  Some  dangerous,  though  well-meaning  crea- 
tures, follow  implicitly  the  example  and  transmitted  custmns  of 
their  great-grandmothers,  and  firmly  believe  that  certain  herbs, 
roots,  and  drugs,  possess  strange  unaccountable  powers,  and 
that  some  superstitious  practices  and  ceremonies  will  infallibly 
produce  the  most  miraculous  effects.  Those  nurses  who 
unfortunately  give  credit  to  these  traditional  prejudices,  keep 
dosing  poor  iufants  with  drugs  upon  every  trifling  occsision, 
and  place  more  reliance  upon  some  pernicious  nostrum,  than 
on  their  best  endeavours.  These  medicines  do  mischief  twenty 
times  for  once  they  do  good  ;  and  ought  never  to  be  adminis- 
tered secretly,  and  without  the  order  of  the  parents  or  of  a 
r^fular  physician. 

It  is  absolutely  necessary  to  have  the  nursery  lofty  and 
spacious,  dry  rather  than  warm,  and  exposed  to  the  sun's 
morning  rays.  The  upper  sash  in  fine  weather  ought  always 
to  be  let  down,  to  admit  fresh  air.  In  almost  all  cases  a  child, 
when  above  a  month  old,  should  every  day  be  carried  from  the 
nursery  into  greeu  fields  and  upon  sunny  eminences.  There 
he  will  drink,  as  it  were,  the  vital  stream  pure  from  its  source; 
he  will  draw  in  at  every  breath  fresh  supplies  of  strength  and 
alacrity ;  while  the  bracing  action  of  the  air  on  the  surfiice  of 
his  body,  will  give  the  degree  of  firmness  unattainable  by  any 
other  means. 

In  the  course  of  a  few  months,  the  state  of  the  weather  need 
not  be  mudi  regarded ;  and  its  unfavourable  changes,  unless  the 
heat  or  cold  be  intense,  must  not  operate  as  a  check  ou  those 
daily  excursions  from  the  nursery.  Our  climate  is  very  fickle; 
and  we  shall  suffer  much  from  its  rapid  variations,  if  we  are 
not  fireely  exposed  to  them  in  early  life ;  do  not  therefore  sacri- 


ADVICE  TO  FEMALE  SERVANTS.  ^1 

ficethe  fiitture  safety  and  comfort  of  the  grown  man^  to  mis- 
taken  tenderness  for  the  infant.  If  the  child  be  accustomed 
firbm  the  cradle  to  go  out  in  all  weathers^  he  will  have  nothing 
to  fear  from  the  bleak  north  or  the  sultry  souths  but  will  bear 
every  change  of  season^  of  climate^  and  of  atmosphere,  not  only 
without  danger,  but  without  pain  or' inconvenience. 

The  nurse  or  child's  maid  must,  however,  be  careful  to  keep 
the  children  in  motion  whDe  abroad,  and  not  to  allow  them  to 
sit  or  lie  on  the  dtfmp  ground.  When  they  return,  if  the 
weather  be  cold,  they  should  be  encouraged  to  jump  and  run 
about ;  but  on  no  account  should  they  be  suffered  to  run  to  the 
fire,  a  practice  very  hurtful  in  many  respects. 

A  child's  maid,  or  a  nurse,  must  be  careful  never  to  bathe 
a  child  when  cold,  but  rather  when  it  feels  above  its  usual 
warmth.  Bathing  immediately  after  a  meal,  or  with  a  full 
stomach,  is  highly  improper  ;  nor  is  it  adviseable,  in  rough 
weather,  to  carry  a  child  into  the  open  air  too  soon  after 
bathing.  The  most  proper  time  for  using  the  bath  is  in  the 
evening,  when  the  child  can  be  removed  to  bed,  as  soon  as  he 
IS  completely  dried.  If  immersion  in  the  bath  be  quickly  fol- 
lowed by  a  glow  all  over  the  body,  and  a  perceptible  liveliness 
in  the  child,  we  may  be  sure  that  the  water  has  not  been  too 
cold  for  his  constitution,  and  that  we  have  proceeded  with  due 
care.  But  should  it  produce  chilliness,  evident  languor,  and 
depression,  we  must  make  the  water  a  little  wanner  next  time, 
and  not  venture  upon  the  cold  bath  till  we  are  encouraged  by 
more  favourable  appearances. 

All  the  benefit  of  the  bath  depends  upon  the  first  shock,  and 
the  reaction  of  the  system.  In  order  to  prevent  a  sudden  and 
strong  determination  of  the  blood  to  the  head,  it  is  always 
adviseable  to  dip  the  child  with  this  part  foremost,  and  to 
be  as  expeditious  as  possible  in  washing  away  all  impurities. 
The  whole  process  should  be  accompanied  with  lively  singing. 
It  is  of  fiir  greater  importance  than  most  people  may  be  aware 
of,  to  associate  in  early  life  the  idea  of  pleasure  and  cheerful- 
ness with  so  salutary  an  operation. 

During  the  use  of  the  lukewarm  bath,  the  whole  body  is  to 
be  immersed  in  it  every  night  as  well  as  morning.  But,  when 
recourse  is  had  to  cold  bathing,  it  must  be  used  in  the  manner 
above  prescribed  in  the  morning  only.    At  night,  it  will  be 


iSS»  DOMESTIC  COOXEET. 

enoDgh  to  vask  the  lamtr  patts ;  and  even  for  lUk^utf09eM 
littk  warm  vater  may  bf  added  to  Ae  'oold  in  mweie  weflther. 
Every  danger  wUl  dnis  he  aToided ;  every  benefit  will  be 
aecared^  aod  the  babit  <of  perional  doanliBeas,  being  rendcral 
faottUar  in  duklhood,  will  he  retaiiied  tbrongfa  life,  and  yM 
contribute  yfixy  much  to  ita  duratiait  and  enjoyinent* 

Dr.  Bucfaan  taya^  *  Grown  persona  have  often  experienoed 
At  fatal  oonseqoeneea  of  too  kng  a  stay  in  the  water.  Whii 
then  must  the  e&cts  of  a  seoond  and  third  dip  be  upon  die 
tender  and  delicate  frame  of  an  infant,  whoae  vital  power  is 
pnopovtionably  fe^ile  f  Besides  the  ri^L  of  extinguishing  Ibe 
faint  sparks  df  life,  an  accumulation  of  humours  in  the  headj 
aiagnations  of  the  blood  in  other  patti,  and  convulsion  fits,  are 
very  l&ely  to  take  place.  But  though  none  of  these  melan- 
choly drcomatances  should  happen  at  the  moment,  a  atoppage 
of  gDowth,  and  a  pnnineas  of  habit,  must  certainly  lotlow  so 
ioconsideEate  an  abuse  of  the  vary  means  best  calculated,  under 
proper  management,  to  promote  health,  expansion,  and  v%oor.' 

It  is  no  part  of  a  nurse  or  child-maid's  duty  to  atsisi  naiun 
mAriuging-  thehodtf  to  a  proper  shape.  The  lijnbs  require 
Ibe  utmost  fiwedom  of  motion  and  expantion  ;  and  there  is  no 
fear  they  will  grow  sweak  or  crooked  fbr  want  of  proper  hand- 
«9es.  Tight  pvei^Qve  always  weidcens,  and  may  sometimes 
aaapend,  with  deadly  a  Act,  the  action  of  4he  h^eart,  the  lung?, 
and  aU  the  vital  orgalia ;  it  inipedes  the  circulation  of  the  blood, 
and  the  equal  xHstribntion  of  noari^ment  to  the  diflerent  parts 
of  the  body :  it  distorts  the  pliant  bones,  cramps  the  muscular 
l^owe^s,  prevebts  growth,  and  rienders  the  whole  frame  equally 
totkki  and  joai^wpen.  Henoe  the  neeesnty  of  dressing  childfen 
lightly,  simply,  and  Idoaaly,  a  mode  which  must  be  approved 
.<if  by  ev^  judioiaua  parent.  You  must  idso  keep  their  heads 
.cool  amd  unfincun^red,  and  their  feet  dean,  dry,  and  warm. 

In  feeding  d&ilditen  beaure  not  to^cran  them  with  uunatursl 
mixtMrei.  No  Apices  «r  wane  diould  at  any  time  be  mixed 
with  their  €ood  or  drink ;  nor  ihoold  their  food  ever  be  made 
sweeter,  or  given  hotter,  than  their  molher'a  milk.  Some 
ignorant  nursea  act  difierently,  in  order  to  make  a  diiid's  meat 
what  they  call  palatable  and  nourishing,  but  whidi  is  sore  to 
vitiate  his  natural  taste,  to  inflame  hia  Mood,  and  to  fill  his 
atomach  with  slime  and  luiidities. 


'O    'J 


that  18  put  into  their  hands  up  to  their  mouths.  Give  them  on 
such  ocpasiotis  crusts  of  bread,  pieces  of  biscuit^  dried  fruits, 
or  fresh  liqoorice-root,  which  they  may  suck  and  chew.  Corals^ 
glass,  and  the  like  hard  bodies,  are  very  improper,  as  they  will 
either  bruise  the  ^ums  and  cause  an  inflammation,  or  make 
tihem  hard  and  callous  by  continual  rubbing,  so  as  to  render 
the  cutting  of  the  teeth  still  more  difficult,  and  the  pain  more 
acute  and  lasting. 

Nurses  have  frequently  some  power  to  give  '  directions 
respecting  the  food  of  the  children  under  their  care.  In  that 
case  you  ought  not  to  confine  them  to  one  particular  sort  of 
fix>d*  The  bill  of  fare  may  be  gradually  enlarged  with  the 
child's  growth,  provided  always  that  it  consists  of  an  innocent 
variety.  He  may  have  bread  and  milk  at  one  time,  bread 
pudding  at  another,  and  bread  sliced  in  broth,  or  in  the  gravy 
of  roast  meat,  diluted  with  water,  now  and  then,  till  at  length 
his  teeth  being  properly  grown,  and  fit  to  chew  meat  itself,  he 
may  be  allowed  a  little  of  it  at  dinner,  with  a  due  proportion 
of  bread  and  of  wholesome  vegetables.  But  all  spices  or 
seasoning,  all  sorts  of  pastry,  butter  in  every  form,  unripe  fruit, 
and  fermented  liquors  are  the  unfittest  and  heaviest  food  which 
can  be  given  to  children.  You  need  not  be  apprehensive  of 
giving  too  much  animal  food  to  the  children  as  they  grow  up, 
for  the  error  lies  gtfierally  the  contrary  way.  You  must  be 
careful  to  feed  your  charge  at  stated  and  regular  periods; 
.  perhaps  three  times  a  day  is  sufficient.  Feeding  children  at 
night  makes  them  fat  and  bloated.  Never  give  them  tta :  for 
this  shrub,  formed  in  an  abstract,  has  been  known  to  kill  in 
the  quantity  of  a  few  grains.  Dr.  Reece  relates,  that  tea 
brokers,  from  being  obliged  to  smell  the  boxes  containing  this 
herb,  generally  fall  victims  to  apoplexy ;  and  Dr.  Beddoes,  by 
a  variety  of  experiments,  found  its  efiects  equally  fatal  on  small 
animals.  How  powerfully  then  must  this  plant  afiect  the 
irritable  habit  of  children  ?  You  may,  however,  allow  them 
any  kind  of  mellow  fruit,  either  raw,  stewed,  or  baked ;  rool% 
of  all  sorts,  and  all  the  produce  of  the  kitchen  garden. .  *  Tht«e 
things,'  says  Dr.  Buchan,  'are  wholesome  and  gopd  for  them, 
notwithstanding  the  idle  notbn  of  their  being  windy,  which 
they  are  onfy  to  very  debauched  stomachs ;  and  so  is  milk : 
2r,  4  m 


6S4  POMSSTIC  COOKBRT. 

but  no  man's  blood  wants  the  cleansing,  refimbiog  power  of 
milk  more  than  he  whose  stomach,  used  to  inflammatory  things 
of  high  relish,  will  not  bear  the  first  chill  of  it.  To  diiAdreo, 
i|ll  this  kind  of  food,  taken  in  moderation,  is  perfectly  grateful 
and  salutary. 

Nurses  ought  to  avoid  tossing  infants  on  high,  or  rapidly 
ianomg  them,  as  it  is  called,  before  their  little  limbs  have 
aome  degree  of  firmness.  A  great  deal  of  the  spine  is  gristly, 
and  the  breast  entirely  so.  Consider  then  what  may  be  the 
effect  of  the  grasp  or  strong  pressure  of  the  hands  against 
tjiose  places,  in  order  to  prevent  the  child  from  falling.  As 
he  advances  in  i^e,  his  bones  acquire  solidity,  and  his  wbsle 
body  becomes  able  to  endure  a  little  shock.  Brisk,  livdy,  and 
frequent  exercise,  will  then  be  of  the  greatest  service  to  him; 
and  you  run  no  xisk  of  laying  the  foundationa  of  any  disettt, 
or  of  destroying  any  part  of  that  admirable  symmetry  in  the 
human  frame,  on  which  health  and  beauty  alike  depend.  Dr. 
Armstrong  recommends  rubbing  with  the  hand  as  the  most 
useful  exercise  for  very  young  infants.  '  It  cannot,'  he  says, 
'  be  too  often  repeated,  or  oontimied  too  long  at  a  tim^  They 
should  be  well  rubbed  all  over,  before  the  fire,  twice  a  day  at 
least,  that  is,  morning  and  evening,  when  they  ave  dressed  and 
undressed  ;  and  the  rubbing  should  be  repeated  from  the  loins 
downwards,  every  time  they  are  turned  dry,  vnless  they  have 
a  pin*gtng,  when  it  might  fatigue  them  too  much  to  have  it 
done  so  often.  There  is  notiiing  that  infanfev  in  general  seen 
more  delighted  with  than  this  exercise,  and  it  were  to  be 
wished,  that  the  nurses  would  indulge  them  more  in  it' 

Nothing  can  be  more  ridiculous  than  die  numerous  oontri- 
yances  to  teach  children  to  walk.  Let  them  roll  freely  on  the 
dry  grass,  and  when  ip  the  nvrsery,  upon  the  carpet  They 
are  too  near  the  ground  and  too  light  to  hurt  themselves  by 
falling.  Besides,  the  oftener  they  fall,  the  sooner  they  will 
learn,  when  down,  to  get  up  again :  and  the  only  way  to  make 
them  sure-footed,  is  to  accustom  them  betimes  to  trust  BKireto 
the  proper  management  of  their  own  legs,  than  to  anyartificisl 
support 

Nurses  are  too  apt,  for  their  t>wn  ease,  or  to  gain  time  for 
other  concerns,  to  cherish  the  sleepy  disposition  of  iniknts,  and 
.to  incKaae  it  by  various  things  of  a  stupe&ctive  quality.    All 


▲DVIOS  TO  FEMALB  SSRVANTS.  QSft 

fti^6.6]Ctreinely  pernicioiis.  Opiates  under  &e  name  of 
<ardial«  or  earminativefl^  or  in  any  shape  or  form  whatever^ 
«^hght  net  to  be  adminutered  to  a  child  in  health.  The  only 
composing  means,  which  art  may  at  any  time  be  allowed  to 
easploy,  aire  gentle  inotiod  aiid  soft  luUabies.  The  c«ts<now  in 
lashioo  are  exceUast^  Feathers  have  a  most  relaxing  tendency* 
Hane-hsir  CMsbions  and  mattresses  are  far  preferable ;  but  soft 
bifan  for  i^hfldven's  beds  aad  pillows  ore  better  than  either.  A 
child's  bed  should  niot  be  surrounded  with  close  curtains*  so  as 
to  obstruct  the.  free  comilittnieation  of  air,  or  to  rcTerberate  tfa^ 
exhalations  fh>m  his  lungs  and  body.  Green  window-blinds  in 
the  sle^ii^  rocwi  wSU  answer  the  same  purpose.  Care  should 
al$o  be  taken  not  to  eaqpese  infants  eithier  in  bed  or  out  of  bed 
|o  an  oblique  light,  or  they,  will  become  squint-eyed.  They 
abonld  b^  kept  faoing  it,  when  up,  and  exactly  the  rever8e> 
when  laid  down  to  rest. 

There  is  not  any  notion  which  is  more  difficult  to  root  out^ 
than  that  children  abound  with  ill  humours,  and  thai  these  can 
be  carried  off  only  by  purging  medietnes.  If  a  spot  appear  on 
the  skin,  the  child  must  have  his  guts  scoured  out,  to  mak« 
the  offensive  pimple  vanish.  They  little  know,  and  can  hardly 
be  made  to  conceive  that  all  purgatives^  however  mild  in  their 
operatim,  throw  the  stomach  into  immediate  disorder,  weaken 
its  digestive  powers,  vitiate  the  juices  designed  for  the  solution 
of  the  ik)od,  and  thus  prevent  the  due  preparation  of  the  chyle 
:whence  the  blood  is  formed.  This  is  the  sure  way  to  generate 
noxious  humours,  instead  of  expelling  them ;  and  to  taint  or 
impoverish  the  vital  stream,  instead  of  purifying  it.' 

A  medical  writer  <^  high  repute  says,  that  'a  timely  change 
in  the  diet  and  manner  of  life  may  prevent  many  dangerous 
dtsoirders.  The  first  tendency  to  disease  may  be  observed  in  a 
phikPs  breath.  It  is  not  enough  the  oreath  be  inoffensive :  it 
should  be  fresh  and  fragrant  like  a  nos^^y  of  fresh  flowers, 
or  a  pail  of  new  milk  from  a  young  cow  that  feeds  upon  the 
sweetest  grass  of  the  spring ;  and  this  as  well  at  first  waking 
in. the  morning,  as  all  day  long.  It  is  always  so  with  children 
that  are  in  perfect  delicate  health.  As  soon,  therefore,  as  a 
child's  breath  is  found  to  be  either  hot,  or  strong,  or  sour, 
we  may  be  assured  that  digestion  and  surfeit  have  fouled  and 
disturbed  the  blood,  and  now  is  the  time  to  apply  a  proper 


636  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

remedy^  and  prevent  a  traiti  of  impending  eviU.  Let  the  diild 
be  restrained  in  his  food ;  eat  less ;  live  upon  milk  or  thin  broth 
for  a  day  or  two ;  and  be  carried^  or  walk  if  he  is  able>  a  little 
more  than  usual  in  the  open  air. 

*  In  this  case  a  certain  fine  insipid  powder,  called  muignema 
alba,  is  recommended,  which,  at  the  same  time  itconectsand 
sweetens  all  sourness  rather  more  effectually  than  the  testa- 
ceous powders,  is  likewise  a  lenient  purgative,  and  keeps  tbe 
body  gently  open ;  not  that  physic  should  be  made  familiar ; 
but  one  dose  administered  now,  wOuld  prevent  the  necessitf  of 
a  great  many  that  might  afterwards  be  prescribed  with  much 
less  good  effect.  If  this  first  symptom  of  approadiing  illoen 
be  overlooked,  the  ehild,  who,  if  it  was  healthy,  would  lie  qaiet 
as  a  log  all  night,  will  have  disturbed  terrifying  dreams;  will 
be  talking,  starting,  kicking,  and  tumbling  about ;  or  smiliog 
and  laughing,  as  is  common  with  very  young  chfldren  when 
they  are  griped ;  mid  the  nurses  say  they  see  and  converse  with 
angels.  After  this  will  follow  loss  of  appetite  and  complexion, 
check  of  growth,  decay  of  strength,  cough,  consumption,  or 
else  colics,  gripes,  worms,  fits,  &c.  diseases  that  require  all  the 
skill  of  a  good  physician ;  and  happy  for  them,  if  the  utmost  be 
can  employ  will  restore  them. to  any  degree  of  lasting  health/ 

Children  are  often  lamed  and  maimed,  and  even  lose  their 
lives,  from  the  carelessness  or  ignorance  of  nurses.  When  a 
child's  clothes  catch  fire,  the  nurse  distracted  by  the  ftightfol 
scene,  and  the  cries  of  the  sufferer,  rushes  to  tear  them  off. 
But,  before  this^  can  be  effected,  the  mischief  is  done.  The 
attempt,  therefofg  should  never  be  made.  The  dothing, 
instead  of  being  torn  off,  ought  to  be  pressed  close  to  the  body, 
and  whatever  is  at  hand  wrapped  over  it,  so  as  to  exclude  the 
lur,  upon  which  the  blaze  will  go  out.  It  is  the  action  of  the 
air  that  keeps  it  alive,  and  increases  its  vehemence.  A  caipet> 
a  tablecloth,  a  blanket,  any  close  wrapper,  will  instantly  ex- 
tinguish it 

It  is  adviseable  to  have  children  taught  very  early  to  dread 
the  fire ;  and  the  best  way  of  impressing  their  minds  with  the 
danger  of  coming  too  near  it,  is  to  suffer  them  to  bom  their 
iingers  slightly,  yet  so  as  to  give  them  some  pain.  This  would 
have  more  effect  than  a  thousand  admonitions. 


ADVICB  TO  FBMALB  SERVANTS.  637 

Great  care  should  be  taken  that  nothing  that  is  hot  be  left 
within  a  child's  reach ;  otherwise  he  will  be  apt  to  pull  it  over 
iiim ;  in  which  case,  before  the  clothes  can  be  got  off,  he  may 
be  scalded  to  death.  Children  are  also  apt  to  carry  every  thing 
to  the  month ;  and  a  very  small  quantity  of  any  liquid  boil- 
ing hot,  will  occasion  death,  if  taken  into  the  stomach. 

It  would  be  tedious  to  enumerate  all  the  dangers  to  which 
cbildren  are  exposed,  but  a  good  nurse  will  foresee  and  provide 
against  the  most  common,  and  she  will  never  so  far  neglect  her 
doty,  as  to  permit  them  to  wander  alone  without  her  careful 
protection* 

A  nurse  should  alwajv  speak  truth  to  children,  always  per- 
form her  promise  to  them,  and  never  terrify  them  with  idle 
fears.  She  should  never  teach  them  to  resent  injuries,  or  to 
be  proud  of  their  clothes.  She  should  never  be  churlish,  nor 
too  fond,  but  always  treat  them  with  that  cheerfulness  and 
kindness,  which  they  will  soon  learn  to  imitate. 


DIRECTIONS  TO  DAIRY-MAIDS. 

• 

JL  HE  business  of  the  dairy-maid  is  of  the  most  beneficial 
nature,  as  by  her  knowledge  and  industry  we  ai^  furnished  with 
several  of  the  most  pleasant  and  essential  articles  of  food. 
We  shall  therefore  give  such  directions  as  may  enable,  the 
inexperienced  to  become  proper  proficients  in  so  valuable  an 
employment. 

ON  THE  MANAGEMENT  OF  THE  DAIRYi  COWS,  &C. 

The  greatest  possible  attention  must  be  paid  to  great  clean- 
liness in  a  dairy.  If  a  pump  can  be  fixed  in  the  place,  or  a 
stream  of  water  conveyed  through  it,  it  will  tend  to  preserve  a 
continued  freshness  and  purity  of  the  air.  The  floor  should  be 
neatly  paved  with  red  brick  or  smooth  stone,  and  laid  with  a 
proper  descent,  so  that  no  water  may  stagnate :  it  should  be 


flM  DOMESTIC  COOKBftY. 

yUrell  washed  eveiy  da\%  and  eold  water  diMira  over  ever]^|MiTt 
of  it  Tery  often,  and  all  the  atenaik,  sheUs,  and  dressers,  kqit 
vith  the  strictest  regard  to  cleanliness*  Neither  the  cheese 
and  rennetj  nor  the  cheese-press,  mdst'  be  suffered  io  ccMitract 
any  taint ;  nor  should  the  churns  be  scalded  in  the  dairy,  as 
the  steam  arising  from  hot  watei*  tends  greatly  to  injure  the 
milk.  There  should  be  shutters  to  keep  out  the  san  and  hot 
air.     Meat  hung  in  a  dairy  iivill  spoil  milk. 

The  utensils  of  the  dairy  shoilld  all  be  nsade  of  wood :  lead, 
topper,  and  brass  are  poisonous,  and  east  iron  gives  a  dis* 
agreeable  taste  to  the  productions  of  the  dairy.  MUk-hmiM  ia 
particular  should  be  utt^ly  abolished,  ahd  terthen  pans  well 
glased  used  in  tneir  stead.  Sour  milk  has  a  conpodiog  ten- 
deney ;  and  the  well  known  effects  of  the  poison  of  lead  are 
bodily  debility,  palsy,  and  death !  The  beat  of  all  aailk-vessds 
are  flat  wooden  trays,  about  three  inches  deep,  and  wideenougii 
to  contain  a  full  gallon  of  milk.  These  may  be  kept  pecftctly 
dean  with  good  care,  and  washing  and  scalding  them  well  with 
salt  and  water. 

When  the  milk  is  brought  into  the  dairy,  it  should  be 
strained  and  emptied  into '  clean  pans  immediately  in  winter, 
but  not  till  cool  in  summer.  White  ware  is  preferable,  as  the 
red  is  porous,  and  cannot  be  so  thoroughly  scalded. 

Cows  should  be  carefully  treated ;  if  their  teats  are  sore, 
they  should  be  soaked  in  warm  water  twice  a  day,  and  either 
be  dressed  with  soft  ointment,  or  done  with  spirits  and  water. 
If  the  former,  great  cleanliness  is  necessary.  The  milk,  at 
these  times,  should  be  given  to  the  pigs. 

The  eows  should  be  milked  at  a  regular  and  early  hour,  and 
the  udders  emptied,  or  the  quantity  wfll  decrease.  The  qoality 
of  milk  depends  on  many  causes ;  as  the  goodness,  breed,  and 
health  of  the  cow,  the  pasture,  the  length  of  time  from  <^vuig, 
the  having  plenty  of  clean  water  in  the  field  she  feeds  in,  &c. 
A  change  of  pastufe  will  tend  to  ii^crease  it.  People  who 
attend  properly  to  the  dairy  will  feed  the  cows  particularly 
well  two  or  three  weeks  before  they  calve,  which  makes  the 
milk  more  abundant  after.  In  gentlemen's  dairies  more  at- 
tention is  paid  to  the  size  and  beauty  of  the  cowa  than  to  their 
produce,  which  dairy-maids  look  most  to. 


ADVICE  TO  FBMALE  SERVANTS.  '  Mtf 

Foraoaking  diee§e  the  cows  should  calve  from  Lady^lay  to 
May*  that  thelarg«  quantity  of  milk  maj  come  into  use  about 
ttke  mane  time :  but  in  gentlemen's  families  one  or  two  should 
calve  in  August  or  September  for  a  supply  in  winter.  In  good 
paatiires,  jtfae  average  produce  of  a  dairy  is  about  three  gallons 
a  da|r  eadi  cow,  from  Lady^-day  to  Michaelmas^  and  from 
thence  to  Christmas  one  gallon  a  day.  Cows  will  be  profitable 
milkers  to  fourteen  or  fifteen  years  of  age^  if  a  proper  breed. 

When  a  calf  is  to  be  reared,  it  should  be  taken  from  the 
co'w  in  a  week  at  farthest^  or  it  will  cause  grieat  trouble  in 
rearing,  because  it  will  be  difficult  tb  make  it  take  milk  in 
a  pan.  Take  it  from  the  cow  in  the  morning,  and  keep  iC 
without  food  till  Ae  next  morning ;  md  then,  being  hungry^ 
It  will  drink  without  difficulty.  Skimmed  milk  and  fresh 
Vrh^y,  just  as  warm  as  new  miUc,  should  be  given  twice  a  day 
in  such  quantity  as  is  required*  If  milk  runs  short,  smooth 
gruel  mixed  with  milk  will  do.  At  first  let  the  calf  be  out 
onlj  by  day,  and  feed  it  pight  and  morning. 

OBSERVATIONS  RESPECTING  CHEESE. 

This  well  known  article  differs  according  to  the  pasture  in 
which  the  cows  feed.  Various  modes  of  preparing  may  effect 
a  great  deal ;  and  it  will  be  bad  or  good  of  its  kind,  by  being 
in  unskilful  hands  or  the  contrary ;  but  much  will  still  depend 
on  the  former  circumstance.  The  same  land  rarely  makes 
very  fine  butter,  and  remarkably  fine  cheese;  yet  due  care 
may  give  one  pretty  good,  where  the  oth^  excels  in  quality. 
When  one  is  not  as  fine  as  the  other,  attention  and  change  of 
method  may  amend  the  inferior. 

Cheese  made  on  the  same  ground,  of  new,  skimmed,  or 
mixed  milk,  will  differ  greatly  not  in  richness  only,  but  also  in 
taste.  Those  who  direct  a  dairy  in  a  gentlmnan's  fiimily  should 
eonaider  in  what  way  it  can  be  mani^d  to  the  best  advantage. 
Even  with  lew  cows,  cheeses  of  value  xnsy  be  made  from  a 
tolerable  pasture,  by  taking  the  wh(^  of  two  meals  of  milk, 
and  proportioning  tb^  thickn^M  of  the  vaf  to  the  quantity, 
rather  than  having  a  wide  and  flat  one,  as  the  former  will  be 
morp  mellow*  Xhe  fiddition  of  a  pound  of  fresh  made  butter, 
of  a  good  quality,  will  cause  the  clieese  iQade  on  poor  land  to 
be  of  a  very  different  quality  from  that  usually  produced  by  it. 


040  DOMK8TIC  COOKERY. 

A  few  cheeses  thus  made,  when  the  weather  b  not  extrane- 
ly  hotj  and  when  the  cows  are  in  full  feed,  will  be  very  advan- 
tageous  for  the  use  of  .the  parlour.  Cheese  for  common  fimiiij 
use  will  be  very  well  produced  by  two  meals  of  skim,  and  one 
of  new  milk ;  or  in  good  land,  by^  skim  milk  only.  Butter 
likewiae  should  be  made,  and  potted  down  for  winter  use,  bat 
not  to  interfere  with  the  cheese  as  above,  which  will  not  take 
much  time. 

To  prepare  Rennet  to  turn  the  Milk. 

Take  out  the  stomach  of  a  calf  as  soon  as  killed,  and  scour 
it  inside  and  out  with  salt,  after  it  is  cleaned  of  the  curd  always 
found  in  it.  Let  it  drain  a  few  hours;  then  sew  it  up  with 
two  good  handfuls  of  salt  in  it,  or  stretch  it  on  a  stick  wdl 
salted ;  or  keep  it  in  the  salt  wet,  and  soak  a  bit,  which  wiH 
do  over  and  over  by  fresh  water. 

To  make  Cheese. 

Put  the  milk  into  a  large  tub,  warming  a  part  till  it  is  of  a 
degree  of  heat  quite  equal  to  new ;  if  too  hot  the  cheese  will 
be  tough.  Put  as  much  rennet  as  will  turn  it,  and  cover  it 
over.  .  Let  it  stand  till  completely  turned ;  then  strike  the 
curd  down  several  times  with  the  skimming  dish,  and  let  it 
separate,  still  covering  it.  There  are  two  modes  of  breaking 
die  curd ;  and  there  will  be  a  difierence  in  the  taste  of  the 
cheese,  according  as  either  is  observed ;  one  is  to  gather  It  with 
the  hands  very  gently  towards  the  side  of  the  tub,  letting  the 
whey  pass  through  the  fingers  till  it  Is  cleared,  and  lading  It  off 
as  it  collects.  The  other  is,  to  get  the  whey  from  it  by  eariy 
breaking  the  curd ;  the  last  method  deprives  it  of  many  of  its 
oily  particles,  and  is  therefore  less  proper. 

'  Put  the  vat  or  ladder  over  the  tub,  and  fiU  it  with  curd  by 
the  skimmer :  press  the  curd  close  with  your  hand,  and  add 
more  as  it  sinks:  and  it  must  be  finally  left  two  inches  above 
the  edge.  Before  the  vat  is  filled,  the  cheese-cloth  must  be 
laid  at  the  bottom ;  and  when  full,  drawn  smooth  over  on  all 
sides. 

There  are  two  modes  of  saltuig  cheese :  one  by  mixing  it  m 
the  curd  while  in  the  tub  after  the  whey  Is  out ;  and  the  other 


ADVICE  TO  VBMALE  SSRYANTS.  ^41 


by  paUing  it  In  the  vt^  jAd  ^afamliling  the  mud  all  to  pieces 
with  it»  after  the  first  squeeung  with  the  hands  has  dried  it. 
The  first  method  «p|ie|u>8'be3t  on  smne  acoounts,  but  not  on 
wM,  and  thcrefoee  the. custom  pf  ^tfae  eenntry  must  dlreet.  .  Put 
e  bdord  undlBr  and  eif  erithe  virty  and  place  &t  in  rtfae  press  :  in 
tito  honrs  turn  it  nat»  and  put  a  fireshchecsfr^oth  ;  press  it 
again  fat  eight  or  .liineJiotttfs^  then  salt  it  all  onrer^  and  turn  it 
i^ain  ID'  the  vat^  arid»  let  it  stand  in  the  press  fonrteen  or  six.<« 
teoa  hours ;  .observing  .to  put  the  ehcesea  last  made  undenhost* 
Before  putting  them  the  last  time  into  the  vat,  pare  the  edgea 
if  thej  do  not  look  smooth.  The  vat  should  have  holes  at  the 
aides  and  at  the  botUMi  to  let  all  the  wbey^pass  through.  Put 
en  cleln  boaede,  and  change  and  soald  tfiem* 

BeH  Method  9f  making  S4i^  ^Cheese^ 

Take  iAie  tops  of  yoang  red  sage ;  and,  having  pressed  the 
jotee  firen  them  bj  beating  in  a  mortar,  do  the  aame  .with  the 
leaves  ef  spinach,  and  then  mix  the  two  juices  together.  After 
putting  the  rennet  to  the  milfc,  ponr  in  some  ef  jhis  juiee, 
eegnlatiqig  the  qnanti^  by  the  degree  of  colour  and  <taste  it  ia 
intended  to  give  ehe  obeese.  As  the  curd  ai^pears,  break  it 
gentljr,  and  in  an  equal  manner;  then,  emptying  it  into  a 
eheeee  vat,  let  it  be  .a  IMtle  pressed,  in  or^ler  to  make  it  eat 
melKrw.  Having  stood  for  aboat  seven  hours,  salt  and  tarn  it 
daily  fiar  four  or  ^je  wveka,  when  it  will  be  fit  for  the  table* 
Theapinacii,  besides  impiMvittg  the  flavour  and  correcting  the 
bitterness  of  the  sage,  will  give  it  a  much  mo^e  pileaamg  oolonr 
than  can.be  obtained  firom  aage  alone. 

(U9€$$i€t$kkre  Green  Ckeese. 

The  mediod  of  making  sage  cheese  in  Olooesterrfnre,  there 
constantly  esUed  green -Aesec,  is  as  ibllews  :-->Fer  a  cheese  of 
ten  or  twelve  pounds  weigbt,  aboat  -two'hiaidfuls  of  sage,  and 
one  of  marigold  leaves  and  parsley,  are  bruised,  and  steeped 
all  night  in  milk.  On  the' fblld wing  day^  the  greened  milk  is 
•trained  off,  and  mixed  wilfa'aboot  a  third  part  of  the  quantity 
to  he  rtm :  the  green  and  the  white  milks  are  then  run  eepasaie- 
ly ;  the  two  curds  being  kept  carefully  apart,  till  both  40*0  ready 
for  vetting.  Tiie  peculiar  mode  of  mixing  them,  depends 
entirely  on  the  fancy  of  the  maker  ;  some  crumble  the  two 


042  DOMESTIC  COOKBRT. 

togdiher,  mixing  them  evenly  and  intimately ;  otiien  break  the 
green  curd  into  irregular  fragments^  or  cut  it  out  in  regular 
figures  with  tins  constructed  for  die  purpose.  In  vatdng  it, 
the  fragments  or  figures  are  placed  on  the  outsides;  the 
bottom  of  the  vat  being  first  set  with  them,  and  crumbliog 
the  white  of  the  yellowed  curd  among  them.  As  the  vat  fills, 
others  are  placed  at  the  edges,  and  the  remainder  is  added  flush 
with  the  top.  The  after-tteatmoit,  of  course,  is  exactly 
similar  to  tiiat  of  plain  cheeses,  as  described  in  the  two  pre- 
ceding articles. 

DeHcate  Cream  Ckeese. 

Take  to  every  quart  of  new  milk  a  gill  of  cream,  make  tbe 
mixture  slightly  warm,  and  put  into  it  as  little  rennet  as  miy 
be  necessary  just  to  turn  it.  The  curd  being  come,  to  use  the 
language  of  the  dairy,  lay  a  cloth  on  the  vat  or  .«ieadd,  fdiidi 
may  be  the  bottom  of  a  sieve,  but  should  be  'the  exact  aiae  of 
the  intended  cheese ;  then,  cutting  out  the  curd  with  a  akkn- 
ming  dish,  fill  up*  the  mould,  turn  the  doth  over  it,  and  leave 
it  to  drain.  As  the  curd  drains  and  settles,  keep  filling  in  moR 
with  a  gentle  pressure,  till  all  the  whey  is  out,  and  there  it 
sufficient  substance  for  the  cheese.  It  must  be  then  tomed  isto 
a  dry  cloth,  and  pressed  witii  a  moderate  weight,  not  exceed- 
ing two  pounds.  At  night  it  is  to  be  turned  into  a  dean  doth; 
and,  tbe  next  morning,  very  slightly  qpxinkled  with  fine  tth: 
after  which,  if  suffidentiy  dry,  it  may  be  laid  on  a  bedof  feh 
nettie,  strawberry  or  ash  leaves ;  oovored  over  with  more ;  and, 
being  shifted  and  turned  twice  a  day,  having  the  leaves  ooo- 
sionally  renewed,  will  in  less  than  a  fortnight  be  suffidentiy 
ripened  for  eating.  If  expedition  be  desirable,  the  maturity 
of  the  chieese  may  be  considei^ably  hastened  by  keeping  it  in  a 
warm  place,  between  two  pewter  dishes,  and  giving  it  a  fresh 
bed  and  covering  of  leaves  every  day. 

Net  Ckteu. 

There  are  considerable  quantities  of  net  cheeses  made  in 
North  Wiltshire;  which  are  prepared^  in  all  respects,  eicq^t 
pressing,  like  the  other  best  cheeses.  It  is  a  remarkable  dr- 
cumstanoe,  and  highly  deserving  of  attention,  that  tbeae  net 
cheeses  are  never  dther  hoven  or  eyed,  defects  fiequently  itivxA 


ADVIOX  TO  FEMALE  SERVANTS. 

in  all  die  oAmt  sorts.    It  is,  in  &ct,  no  uncommon  circum* 
•tanoey  for  the  same  maker  to  form,  out  of  one  oowl  of  curd, 
pressed  cheeses  which  heave,  and  net  cheeses  which  are  per- 
fectly «lose.    There  seems,  therefore,  but  little  occasion  to  look 
farther  for  a  cause.     In  making  net  cheeses,    the  curd   is 
aqneesed  as  closely  and  tightly  as  possible  into  the  nets  by  hand, 
l>ut  receives  no  other  compression;  in  other  cheeses,  the  curd 
is  subjected  to  the  powers  of  a  press :  and  it  has  not  failed  to 
be  noticed  that,  the  heavier  the  press,  the  greater  is  the  pro- 
pensity of  the  cheeses  to  heaving,  as  well  as  that  a  similar 
effect  is  produced  by  overfilling  the  vats.     The  natural  infer- 
ence is,  that  an  instrument  of  pressure  as  nearly  as  possible  on 
the  principle  of  that  of  the  hand,  with  powers  suited  to  the 
size  of  the  largest  cheese,  would  in  like  manner  render  cheeses 
of,  any  form  or  magnitude  invariably  close ;  if,  indeed,  there 
should  not  also  be  a  necessity  of  having  the  mould  or  vat  so 
ooostructed  as  to  leave  the  sides  of  the  cheese  seme  degree  of 
freedom  like  the  meshes  of  a  net. 

To  make  Cheeu  taund. 

Wash  in  warm  whey,  when  you  have  any,  and  wipe  it  once 
a  month,  and  keep  it  on  a  rack.  If  you  want  to  ripen  it,  a 
damp  cellar  will  bring  it  forward.  When  a  whole  cheese  is 
cut,  the  larger  quantity  should  bespread  with  butter  inside, 
and  the  outside  wiped,  to  preserve  it.  To  keep  those  in  daily 
use  moist,  let  a  dean  cloth  be  rung  out  from  cold  water,  and 
wrapped  round  them  when  carried  from  table.  Dry  cheese 
may  be  used  to  advantage  to  grate  for  serving  with  macaroni, 
creating  without.  These  observations  are  made  with  a  view 
to  make  the  above  articles  less  expensive,  as  in  most  families 
where  much  is  used  there  is  waste. 

OBSERVATIONS  RESPECTING  BUTTER. 

There  is  no  one  article  of  family  consumption  more  in  use, 
of  greater  variety  in  goodness,  or  that  is  of  more  consequence 
to  have  of  a  superior  quality  than  this,  and  the  economising  of 
which  is  more  necessary.  The  sweetness  of  butter  is  not 
affected  by  the  cream  being  turned,  of  which  it  is  made. 
When  cows  are  in  turnips,  or  eat  cabbages,  the  taste  is  very 


64A  l^Otf  E9TIC  COOKBBT« 

duagf^aUe;  and  the  frifowibg  ways  hwB  heea  IrMwidk 
^vantage  to  obviate  it, 

Wheo  the  milk  is  strained  into  Ihfe  pana»  put  to  eVory  ax 
gallons  one  gallon^  of  boiliog  water.  Or  disaoWe  one  onnce  of 
nitre  ina  pint  of  spring  water,  and*  put  a  quarter  of  a  pint  to 
every  fifteen  gallons  of  milk.  Or  when  you  chum^  keep  back 
a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  the  spur  crean,  and  put  it  into  a  wril 
scalded  pot,  into  which  you  are  to  gather  the  next  oeam ;  stir 
that  well,  and  do  so  with  every  fresh  additien. 

Tp  make  ButUr* 

'During  summer,    skim   the  milk  when  the  sun  baa  not 
heated  the  dairy;   at  that  sieason  it  Aoald  stand  fat  butter 
twentyi-fb^r   hours  without   skiuuning,    and   fb#ty«^ii^t  in 
winter.     Depodit  the  eream-pot  in  a  very  cold  cdlar  i^Hnre  a 
free  air  is  admitted,  if  your  dairy  is  not  JDore  sa     if  you 
cannot  ohura  daily,  change  it  into  soaMed  freafa  pots;  but 
never  omit  churning  twice  a  week*     If  possibfe  put  the  ohum 
into  a  thorough  air ;  and  if  not  a  barrel  one,  set  it  into  a 
tub  of  water  two  fe^  deep,  which  will  give  firmness  to  the 
butter.     When  the  bolter  is  come,  pour  oif  the  ba^er-milk, 
and  put  the  butter  into*  a  fresh  scalded  pan,  or^ube-whidi 
have  afterwards  be^n  in  cold  water«     Po^r  water  on  it»  aod  let 
it  lie  to  acquire  some  hardness  beforeyou  work  it ;  tben  dia^gi 
the  water,  and  beat  it'  with  fiat  boards  so  periectly  that  not  the 
least  taste  of  the  butter-^milk  remain,  and  thatthe  water,  which 
must  be  often  changed,  shall  be  quite  dear  in  colour.     Thai 
work  some  salt  into  it,,  weigh  and  make  it  into  forma ;  throw 
them   into  cold  water,  in  an  earthen  pan  suad  cover  of  the 
queen's  ware.     Yqu  will  then  have  veiy  nice  and  cool  butter  is 
the  hottest  weather.      It  requires  miose  wofking  ki  hot  than  in 
cold  weather ;  but  in  neither  should  be  left  with  a  particle  of 
butter-milk,  or  a  sour  taste,  as  is  sometimes  done. 

DuUh  Methdd  of  mining  Buttet. 
The  following  method  of  making  butter  is  practised  in 
Holland  with  such  advantage  that  it  seems  highly  entitled  to 
general  consideration:— After  the  Dutch  have  ttiilked  t&ea 
co^s,  they  leave  the  milk  to  get  entirety  cold  befo»e  it  be  put 
in  the  pans.    When  it  is  there  placed,  they  da  not  6o#er  it  (o 


-    ADVICB  TO  FBMAIiB  8SBVANT8.  W6 

MMrid;fcrtlMare«n  to  riBQ  awe  than  about  four  kiiDi^  Tho)r 
W^m  8tir  it  togetftwr,  in  otder  to  combine  nore  intinmfteljr  AiO 
milkfBBd  tbe  ereiin^  end  contbue  lihiie  to  do  at  leest  two  tft 
tbiee  timee  a  daj*  If  it  be  in  this  ma&ner  agitated,  as  oooib 
aionaUy  happens,  till  the  whole  be  quite  tkick^  the  butter  thai 
obtained  is  the  more  highly  esteemed.  As  soon,  however,  as 
it  acquires  the  usual  consistency,  it  k  churned,  commonly  about 
Mi  hdvr,  till  tbe  butter  bc^gina  to  form.  Cold  water  is  then 
added,  proportidned  to  the  quaatity  of  milk,  for  the  purpose 
o£  laoilitattBg  tbe  separation  of  the  flaid  party  called  tbe  butter- 
milk. The  butter  being  properly  come,  it  is  taken  from  the 
chvzxi,  and  repeatedly  washed  and  kneaded  in  fresh  water,  till 
the  batter-miik  being  all  oKpreseed,  it' no  longer  receiver  any 
tinge  of  white*  By  this  sisaple  mode,  not  only  far  move  bolter 
is  obtaitied  ftom  the  same  quantity  of  milk  than  in  any  otber 
known  way,  but  the  butter  itself  is  actually  firmer,  sweeter, 
and  continues  longer  fresh,  than  the  generality  of  butter  made 
in  England,  while*  the  buttef-tnilk  is  prodigiously  more  agree- 
Mb  to  the  pftkate.  By  this  and  other  econediieid  espedients, 
tbe  Dutch  are  enabled  to  supply  us  with  the  batter  wbiob  we 
might  make  in  suflieient  quantities  for  outselres^ 


Te  i^e$ert€  Butter. 

Tidte  two  psirts  of  the  best  canHnon  salt,  dne  piurt  gMd 
lea^sosar,  and  ode  part  saltpetre ;  beat  tbeni,wett  together. 
To  siztem  ounoes  of  butter  thoronghly  deansed  Atnos  tbe  ifedlk, 
put  one  ouBcq  of  Ais  cooqieBitioa;  work  it  well,  afld  pot  dowli 
when  become  firm  and  cold.  « 

The  butter  thus  preserved  is  the  better  for  keeping,  and 
should  not  be  used  under  a  month.  This  article  should  be  kept 
from  the  air,  and  is  best  in  pots  of  the  best  glazed  earth,  that 
will  hold  from  ten  to  fourteen  pounds  each. 

To  preserve  Butter  far  IVinter,  the  best  Way. 
When  the  butter  has  been  prepared  as  above  directed,  take 
two  parts  of  the  best  common  salt,  one  part  of  good  loaf-sugar, 
and  one  part  of  saltpetre,  beaten  and  blended  well  together. 
Of  this  composition  put  one  ounce  to  sixteen  ounces  of  butter, 
and  work  it  well  together  in  a  mass.  Press  it  into  the  pans 
after  the  butter  is  become  cool ;  for  friction,  though  it  be  not 


64C  OOMBSTIC  COOKBRT. 


touched  by  die  hands/  will  aoftai  it.  The  pms  should  hold 
•ten  or  twelve  pounds  each.  On  the  top  put  sooie  salt ;  and 
when  that  is  turned  to  biine^  if  not  enough  to  cover  the  butter 
.entirely)  add  some  salt  and  water.  It  requires  only  then  to  be 
covered  from  the  dust 

Buttermilk. 

Bttttermilky  if  made  of  sweet  cream,  is  a  delicii>iu  and  BMnt 
wholesome  food.  Those  who  can  relish  soor  buttermilk  find  it 
still  more  light;  and  it  is  reckoned  more  beneficial  in  con- 
sumptive cases. 

Buttermilk^  if  not  very  sour,  is  also  as  good  as  cream  to 
eat  with  fruit,  if  sweetened  with  white  sugar,  and  mixed  widi 
a  very  little  milk.  It  likewise  does  equally  for  cakes  and  noe- 
puddings,  and  of  course  it  is  economical  to  chum  before  the 
cream  is  too  stale  for  any  thing  but  to  feed  pigs. 

To  keep  Milk  and  Cream* 

In  hot  weather,  when  it  is  difficult  to  preserve  milk  fifom 
becoming  sour,  and  spoiling  the  cream,  it  may  be  kept  perfectly 
sweet  by  scalding  the  new  milk  very  gently  without  boilings 
and  setting  it  by  in  the  earthen  dish  or  pan  that  it  is  done  in. 
This  method  is  pursued  in  Devonshire ;  and  for  batter,  and 
eatbg,  would  equally  anawer  in  small  quantities  for  cofie,  tea, 
.&c.  Cream  ^eady  skimmed  may  be  kept  twenty-fimr  honrs 
if  scalded  without  sugar ;  and  by  adding  to  it  as  much  pow- 
dered lump^ugar  as  shall  make  it  pretty  sweety  will  be  good 
two  days,  keeping  it  in  a  tool  plaoe. 


FOULTRT-YARD.  MT 


N 


POULTRYYARD. 


MANAOSMBNT  OF  FOWLS. 

J[N  order  to  have  fine  fowls,  it  is  necessary  to  choose  a  good 
breed,  and  have  proper  care  taken  of  them.  People  differ  in 
their  opinions  of  which  is  best.  The  black  are  very  juicy ;  but 
do  not  answer  so  well  for  boiling,  as  their  legs  partake  of  their 
colour.  They  should  be  fed  as  nearly  as  possible  It  the  same 
hour  and  place.  Potatoes  boiled,  unskinned,  in  a  little  water, 
and  then  cut,  and  either  wet  with  skimmed  ipilk  or  not,  form 
one  of  the  best  foods.  Turkeys  and  fowls  thrive  amazingly  on 
them.     The  milk  must  not  be  sour. 

The  best  age  for  setting  a  hen  is  from  two  to  five  years  ; 
and  you  should  remark  which  hens  make  the  best  brooders, 
and  keep  those  to  laying  which  are  giddy  and  careless  of  their 
young.  In  justice  to  the  animal  creation,  however,  it  must  be 
observed,  there  are  but  few  instances  of  bad  parents  for  the 
time  their  nursing  is  necessary. 

Hens  sit  twenty  days.  Convenient  places  should  be  pro* 
vided  for  their  laying,  as  those  will  be  proper  ibr  sitting 
likewise.  If  the  hen-house  is  not  secured  from  vermin,  the 
eggs  wfll  be  sucked. 

Those  hens  are  usually  preferred  which  have  tufts  of  feathers 
on  their  heads  ^  those  that  crow  are  not  looked  upon  as  profit- 
able. Some  fine  young  fowls  should  be  reared  every  year,  to 
keep  up  a  stock  of  good  breeders;  and  by  this  attention,  and 
removing  bad  layers  and  careless  nurses,  you  will  have  a 
chance  of  a  good  stock. 

Let  the  hens  lay  some  time  before  you  set  them,  which 
should  be  done  firom  the  end  of  February  to  the  beginning  of 
May.  Wiiile  hens  are  laying/  feed  them  well,  and  sometimes 
with  oats. 

Broods  of  chickens  are  hatched  all  through  the  summer,  but 
those  that  come  out  very  late,  require  much  time  till  they  have 
gained  some  strength. 


64t  DOMBSTIG  CEOOKBBT* 

^^  eggs  of  any  other  sort  are  put  nnder  a  hen  with  some  of 
her  own,  observe  to  add  her  own  as  many  days  after  the  others 
as  there  is  a  difference  in  the  length  of  their  sitting.  A  tarkey 
and  duck  sit  thirty  days.  Choose  large  dear  eggs  to  put  her 
upon,  and  such  a  number  as  she  can  properly  cover.  If  very 
large  eggs^  there  are  sometimes  two  yolks,  and  of  course  neither 
will  be  productive.  .  T^  or  twdye  41^  W^  enough. 

A  hen-house  should  be  large  and  high,  and  should  be  fire- 
fWWtly '^alMll^  9ul:,  or  tti^  vermin  ^  9»wW  mi)i  i|ic«fai^gnei«ij. 
Bfit  hens  m^at  pot  he  disturbed  white  sitting ;  lor  |f  fqgfatn^^ 
they  sflipwetii ioe9  f<mfik9  their  iiest.  Wurmwo^d  fa4  lie  ahwM 
be  planted  plentifully  $bQ)i%  thehr  boufeai  Ji)oil  a^pne  of  the 
former,  aTi4  sprinkle  it  about  t^ft  floor  V  i^hich  should  be  of 
smoo|h  earth,  not  pav^ed*  The  windows  ,<of  the  house  ahoold 
be  open  to  the  ri^JDg  >son,  and  |i  hole  mmt  be  laft  at  the  floor^ 
to  let  the  smaller  fowl^  go  in  j  the  i^rger  may  i>e  let  in  a«d  out 
by  opening  the  door.  Ther^  should  be>  a  small  slidiiig  hoard 
to  shut  dowQ  wb^  the  fowla  are  gone  to  rpost ;  whkfa  would 
prevent  tibe  amaU  beasts  of  pcf y  from  oommitjtiiig  ravage  and 
a  go^  strong  4opr  ^T^  lock  vkf^  possibly,  in  some  iBeaswe» 
pr^f^Di  ^e  ikspr^edfttigus  ^  human  enaa^ie** 

When  «90Wi  tS  thi».  chicken^  i^re  hajiched  k>qg, before  the 
others,  it  may  be  necessary  to  keep  them  in  a  basket  of  wool 
till  tha  oUmii  cofue  Ibrlib.  Theiday  a^r  tb^y  are  balohed, 
gjvfi  ibei9  8««»e  cruQibs  of  M§h?M  bv^ad,  a^A  small,  oar  ivdier 
«»ck«4  m^  9^9^tAi»m^»  A»  aOQn  us  th^y.hfwe  gained  a 
little  strength,  feed  them  with  curd,  cbeese-paiiogs  cot  small, 
or  any  soft  fiMi4  biuK  Ml^i^Kiisi^ ;  an^  give  them  dean  water 
twiee  a  day.  Kfwp  Jhe  heii  und#V  a  jien  till  the  yowg  have 
strength  $Q  foUow  ker  sl^oiilr  wJUdk  wiU  be  in  two  «r  three 
weeks.;  aiHl  be  lUre^o  feed  hm  wolk 

Tb^  fl}0d  Qf  ^wls  fii^  g^>09  ipto  their  or^p,  which  softens 
it ;  and  then  passes  into  the  gizzard,  whiqb  by  constant  firictien 
maosrates  it ;  and  4his  is  ihdliiMed  by  smaU  aones,  whieh  are 
generally  iound  there,  and  which  help  to  digest  the  food. 

If  a  sitting  han  is  tasoabled  with  yerasia*  let  her  be  well 
washed  with  a  decoction  of  white  lupins.  The  pip  in  fowls  is 
occasioned  hy  drinking  dirty  water>  or  takiqg  £ldiy  food.  A 
white  thin  scale  on  the  tongue  is  the  symptom.  Pall  the  scale 
off  with  your  nail,  and  rub  the  tongue  with  some  salt;  and  the 
complaint  will  be  removed. 


.toUltTKYrTARDw  (ftt9 


k  ttdWBK  veil  tb'pay  uimB  hay  eiB|ilo}re4  in  the.&rm  ov 
tttatik^  ao  piuch  A  score  >foribefggs-  Itt.bxxDgt  in.  It  will  bf 
him  i^^eratt  Ab^  to  «jwe  iheoi  fcombdiog  fitfJoiiied,  xibicli 
Uttbndy  but  mie  ^  Im' situation  con  pfeveht. 

&t  «iae  01^  liie  fite  iqtii  iriumteed  milk^  only  as  much  «i 
«n|l  8orve4nie  df^:  Let  it  boil  lill  the  riqp  ii  quite  swelled 
out;  *^u.|pagr4idd  .a .tear-epeonfol  or  two  of  i[ngar,  but  it  will 
^  well  /withoiit.  F^ed  .theui  ^hree  times  a  daj,  in  common 
iMnSj  filing  tham^pnly  «8  «inch  as  will  giute  ^fill  4heqi  at  once. 
When  you  put  fresh,  let  the  pans  be  set  in  water^  that  nd 
#oumeas  may  lie  conveyed  to  the.fowis,  ^astbat  pseTents  them 
tfvooL  ^fattqpangw  Give  |{iem  clean  wateii,  or  t^e  milk  of  the 
jrice,  ^.drinfc;  but  ibit  le»>wet  4he  laitt^  is  when  perfectly 
«oaked,  the  better.  By  this  method-  thctflesh  will  have  a  clear 
orhitdness  whiahao  other  food  gives ;  and  when  it  ie  considereid 
imw^far^i  pound  of  nee  will  go,,  ^ad  }iow  muth  time  is  saved 
by  this  mode,  it  will  be  found  to  be  as  cheap  as  b^rleynneal, 
or  more  so.  The  pan  should  be  daily  cleaned,  and  no  food 
given  for  sixteen  hours  before  poultry  be  killed. 

'  •  Gceae. 

Geese  require  Httle  expense^  as  they*  chieAy  support  1hem«- 
fERfelves  OR  commons  or  in  lanes,  whefe  they  can  get  water.  The 
largest  are  esteemed  best,  as  also  are  the  white  and  grey.  -^Thb 
f>ied  aad  dark  coloured  are  not  so  good.  Thirty  days  are  g^ie- 
Mdly  the  time  the  goose  sita,  but  in  warm  weather  she  will  some- 
times hatch  sooner.  Give  them  plenty  of  food,  such  as  sdalded 
4>ran4md  light  oats ;  and  as  soon  as  the  goslins  are  hatched,  keep 
them  housed,  for  eight  or  ten  days,  and  feed  them  with  barley 
^tneal,  bran,  cuids,  Ac.  For  green  geese,  be^  to  iatten  them 
at  six  or  seven  weeks  old,  and  feed  them  as  above.  Stubble- 
^^eese.  require  no  fattening  if  th^  have  the  run  of  good 

'fields. 

•  •  ■ 

Ducks* 

Dudes  generally  begin  to  lay  in  the  month  of  February. 
'Their  eggs  should  be  daily  taken  away  from  them,  till  they 
•eem  inclined  to  sit;  then  leave  them  and  see  that  there  are 
24  -40 


050  DOUfiSTlC  COOKEftT^ 

enough.  They  reqone  no  attention  while  ritthig»  except  to 
give  them  food  «t  the  time  they  come  out  to  seek  it ;  end  there 
should  be  water  placed  at  a  moderate  diatanoe  from  them,  tfiat 
their  eggs  may  not  foe  spoiled  by  their  long  absence  in  seeking 
it.  Twelve  or  thirteen  eggs  are  enough ;  in  an  early  season  it 
is  best  to  set  tbem  undfer  a  hen ;  and  then  they  can  be  kept 
from  water  till  they  have  a  little  istrength  td  bear  it,  whi(&  in  very 
cold  weather  they  cannot  do  so  well*  They  should  be  put 
under  cover,  especially  in  a  wet  season ;  for  though  water  is 
the  natural  element  of  ducks,  yet  they  are  apt  to  be  killed  by 
ihe  cramp  before  ihey  are  coVered  witb  feathers  to  de&nd 
them. 

Ducks  should  be  accustomed  to  feed  and  rest  at  one  place. 
which  would  prevent  their  straggling  too  fer  to  lay.  Places 
near  the  water  to  lay  in  ar^  advantageous ;  and  those  might  be 
small  wooden  houscfs,  with  a  partition  in  the  middle^  and  a 
door  at  each  end.  They  eat  any  thing;  and  when  to  be 
fattened,  must  have  plenty,  however  coarse^  and  in  tfiree 
weeks  they  will  be  fiit. 

Turkeys. 

Turkeys  are  Very  tender  when  young.  As  so6n  as  hatched 
put  three  peppercorns  down  their  throat  Great  care  is  neces- 
sary to  their  wdl-foeing,  because  the  hen  is  so  careless  that  she 
will  walk  about  with  one  chick,  and  leave  the  remainder,  or 
even  tread  upon  and  kill  them.  Turkeys  are  violent  esters,  aud 
jaittst  therefore  be  left  to  take  charge  of  themselves  in  general, 
except  one  good  feed  a  day.  The  hen  sits  twen^-five  or 
thirty  days ;  and  the  young  opes  must  be  kept  warm,  as  the 
least  cold  or  damp  kills  them.  They  must  be  fed  often;  and 
at  a  distance  from  the  hen,  which  will  eat  every  thing  from 
them.  Tbey  should  have  curds,  green  cheese  parmga  cut 
emiill,  and  bread  and  milk  with  chopped  wormwood  in  it ;  and 
.their  drink  milk  and  waur,  but  not  left  ta  be  sour.  All  young 
fowls  are  a  prey  for  vermin,  therefore  they  should  be  kept  in  a 
safe  place  where  none  can  come ;  weasels,  stoats,  ferrets,  &c 
creep  in  at  very  small  crevices. 

Let  the  hen  be  under  a  coop,  in  a  warm  place  exposed  to 
the  sun,  for  the  first  three  or  four  weeks ;  and  the  young  shodd 
not  be  sufifered  to  go  out  in  the  dew  at  morning  or  evening. 


<• 


POULTRY -YARD.   '  JB51 

Twehre  eggs  «re  tnough  to  put  under  a  turkey ;  and.  when 
she  is  about  to  1ay»  lock  her  up  till  she  has  laid  every  morning. 
They  usually  begin  to  lay  in  March,  uid  sit  in  April.  Feed 
them  near  the  hen-house ;  and  giye  them  a  little  meat  in  the 
evening,  to  accustom  them  to  roosting  there.  Fatten  them 
with  sodden  oats  or  barley  for  the  first  fortnight,  and  the  last 
fortnight  give  them  as  above,  and  rice  svrelled  with  warm  milk 
over  the  fire  twice  a  day.  The  flesh  will  be  beautifully  whitis 
and  fine  flavoured.  The  common  way  is  to  cram  them,  but 
th^  are  so  ravenous  that  it  seems  unnecessary,  if  they  are  not 
suffered  to  go  fiur  from  home,  which  makes  them  poor. 

Pea  Fowl. 

Feed  them  as  you  do  turkeys.  They  are  so  shy  that  they 
are  seldom  found  for  some  days  after  hatching :  and  it  is  very 
wrong  to  pursue  them,  as  many  ignorant  people  do,  in  the  idea 
of  bringing  them  home ;  for  it  only  causes  the  hen  to  carry  the 
young  ones  through  dangerous  places,  and,  by  hurrying,  she 
treads  upon  them.  The  cock  kills  all  the  young  chickens  he 
can  get  at,  by  one  blow  bn  the  centre  of  the  head  with  his  bill; 
and  he  does  the  saiiie  by  his  own  brood  before  the  feathers  of 
the  crown  come  out.  Nature  therefore  impels  the  hen  to  keep 
them  out  of  his  way  till  the  feathers  vise. 

Guinea  Hens. 

Chiinea  hens  lay  a  great  number  of  eggs ;  and  if  you  can 
discover  the  nest  it  is  best'  to  put  them  under  common  hens, 
which  are  better  nurses.  They  require  great  warmth,  quiet, 
and  careful  feeding,  with  rice  swelled  with  milk,  or  bread 
aoidced  in  it.  Put  two  peppercorns  down  their  throat  when 
first  hatched. 

Pigeons* 

They  bring  two  young  ones  at  a  time ;  and  breed  every 
month,  if  well  looked  after,  and  plentifully  fed.  They  should 
be  kept  very  clean,  and  the  bottom  of  the  dove>cot  be  strewed 
with  sand .  once  a  month  at  least.  Tares  and  white  peas  are 
their  proper  food.  They  should  have  plenty  of  fresh  water 
in  their  house.  Starlingf  an^^  other  hints  are  apt  to  come 
among  them,  and  suck  the  eggs.    Vermin  likewise  are  their. 


I 

J 


OSS  BOVESTie  COOKBRT. 

great  cbemieff^  knd  desb^y  them.'  Cfbserve  not  tq  hm  feo# 
large  a  propoiticm  of  cock  bhrdff ;  for  thby  afe  qoantisMM, 
^d  will  sooA  iinn  the  dove-cot. 

Pfgdom  ark  ftnd  of  Mt,  and  it  keepe  IImiii  in*  hddth;  Lijr 
a  large  h^ap  of  clay  near  the  hoalei  and  let  the  salt  brint  thi> 
soay  be  done  wiih  in  the  faibiiy  be  poured'  npoii  it. 

Bay  salt  and  cunimin-aeedft  nrixed  h  a  uniY^tlsal  rediedf  (w 
Ae  diseases  of  fnge6nk.  Th^  backs  and  breasts  lov  AoniAiaRi 
ieabby ;  in  whioh  dase^  tahe  a  quarter  of  a  ptoml  of  biy-stitt 
Und  as  much  common  salt ;  a  pound  of  iehneUscftds^  a  potnidof 
dill-seedy  as  much  cuniminyseed^  and  an  oiiboe'  of  aaifcfOdi} 
mix  all  with  a  little  wheaten  flour^  and  some  fine  worked  claj; 
when  all  are  well  beaten  to^iftther,  p^t  it  into  two  earthen  pots, 
and  btekie  thlsm  in  the  oven.  When  dbld,  pot  th^  oo  the 
table  m  the  dove*cot;  the  pigeons  will  eUt  itv  itod  <haf  bi 
cored* 

■ 

Rabbits. 

The  wild  ones  have  tbe  finest  flavottr,  uakss  great  ore  is 
taken  to  keep  the  tame  delieatdy  dean.  The  tame  one  briogi 
Ibrth  every  mdnth^  aud  moat  be  alkrw>edte  go  with  the  bsdb 
as  sdon  as  she  hafe  kindled.  The  sweetest  hay>  oatS)  beaosj 
sow-thistle,  parsley,  caprdt-topa^  c4>bi^e-leavee>  and  buB}  inA 
and  fresh,  should  be  given  to  them.  If  not  very  well  attended, 
their  stench  will  destroy  .tkeUselves,  itnd  be  very  unwholesome 
to  all  who  live  near  them.;  but  attention  wiU  prevent  tlm 
inconvenience. 

Feathers. 
In  towns,  poultry  being  usually  s<^d  tieady^pieked,  li>0 
feathers,  which  may  occasionally  come  in  small  quantities,  v% 
neglected ;  but  orders  should  be  given  to  pn^  them  into  a  tob 
free  from  damp,  and  as  th^  dry  to  change  tbem  into  ptp^ 
bags,  d  few  in  each;  they  should  hang  in  a  diy  kftcb^to 
toeason ;  fresh  ones  should  not  be  added  to  those  in  pv%  ^^"^ 
or  they  will  occa&ioa  a  musty  smdl,  but  ihey  sbodd  go  Anwi^ 
the  same  process.  In  a  few  months  they  will  be  fit  to  add  to 
beds,  or  to  make  pillows,  withoat  the  usual  mdde  of  diyii*! 
them  in  acool  oven,  which  may  be  pursued  if  thqr  tfrew^tea 
i>efor€  Ave  or  six  months* 


MEANS  OF  DE8TR0TI90  NO»OV8  INSECTS,  &C.     fU 


MEANS  OF  DEgTROYINO  NOXIOUS  INSECTS,  Sto. 

'IJIVILIZATION  and  the  arts  having  made  the  desert  ta 
blossom  as  the  rose^  Have  alse  delivered  u%  from  the  power 
of  ravenous  beasts;  but  we  are  etill  liable  to  be  attacked  by  a 
more  numerooa  though  less  powerful  host  of  enemTes,  who 
commit  their  depredations  on  the  animal  and  vegetable  kingw 
doms,  and  thereby  destroy  many  of  the  comforts  of  human  life. 
Dwelling  houses  are  continaally  exposed  to  the  invasion  of 
insects^  reptiles,  and  other  kinds  of  vermin,  whose  uses  la 
creation  we  have  either  not  discovered,  or  whose  exterminatioi^ 
is  left  to  the  power  and  wisdom  of  man  to  accomplish.  Jt 
doeMl  not  become  us  to  be  prodigal  of  life  in  any  form,  nor 
wantonly  to  seek  its  destruction;  but  when  any  species  of 
l^nimftlg  become  reidly  noxious,  the  good  of  creation  requirea 
that  they  should  be  destroyed. 

BeetkM. 

To  destroy  beetles  that  are  troublesome  in  the  house,  pttt 
some  small  lumps  of  quick  lime  info  the  chinks  or  holes  of  the 
vrsil  frots  whence  tfacy  issue,  <Mr  seattet  it  on  the  ground*  Or 
ttt  kught,  hiy  a  little  treade  on  a  piece  of  wood,  and  float  it  in 
B  psn  ef  water :  beel^a  are  so  fond  of  treads  that  they  w^  be 
drowned  in  attempting  to  get  at  it.  The  common  black  beette 
may  be  also  extirpated  by  placing  a  hedge-hog  in  the  room 
during  the  summer  nights ;  or  by  placing  a  bundle  of  pea  straw 
aear  Uieir. holes,  imd  afterwards  burning  it  when  the  beetles 
-faa?e  crept  into  it* 

• 

Bugs* 

A  strong  solution  of  vitriol  will  effectoaSy  destroy  this  Und 
ef  Termin.  Dip  a  sponf^  or  brush  into  the  sdstion,  and  rub 
tt4m  tbe  bed  or  fvmituire  wliere  they  harbour,  and  it  will  de^ 
stroy  both  them  and  their  mts.  If  any  bags  appear  after  otoe 
sMoag  ity  the  apptkaition  mttst  be  repealled,  and  some  of  the 
ttHxtvre  pouted  into  the  joints  and  boles  of  the  Mbteed  «id 


654.  DOMESTIC  COOKBKT* 

headboard.  Beds  that  have  mach  wood  work  require  to  be 
taken  down  and  well  examined  before  they  can  be  thoroughly 
cleared  of'^ese  vermin^  and  the  mixture  should  be  rubbed 
int^afTthe  joints  and  creyices  with  a  painter^s  brudi.'  It  should 
,^  -Also  be  applied  to  the  walls  of  the  room  to  insure  success;  apd 
if  mixed  with  a  little  lime,  will  give  it  a  lively  yellow^  Thr 
boiling  of  any  kind  of  wood  work  or  new  furniture  in  an  iron 
caldron^  with  a  solution  of  vitriol^  will  prevent  the  breecUng 
of  bugs,  and  preserve  it  from  rottenness  and  decay. 

If  this  does  not  completly  succeed,  take  half  a  pint  of  the 
highest  rectiSed  spirits  of  wine,  and  half  a  pint  of  spirits  of 
turpentine ;  dissolve  in  this  mixture  half  an  ounce  of  camphir^ 
and  shake  them  well  togedier.  Dust  the  bed  or  the  fumitore, 
dip  a  sponge  or  brush  into  the  mixture,  wet  them  all  over, 
and  pout  some  of  the  liquor  into  the  holes  and  crevices.  If 
any  should  afterwards  appear,  wet  the  lacings  of  the  beds,  the 
fcldings  of  the  curtains  near  the  rings,  aiid  other  parts  where 
it  is  at  all  likely  the  bugs  may  nestle  and  breed,  and  it  will 
effectually  destroy  them.  The  smell  of  this  mixture  is  not  un* 
wholesome,  and  may  be  applied  to  the  finest  damask  bed  with- 
out any  fear  of  soiling  it.  It  should  be  well  shaked  together, 
but  never  used  by  candle-light^  for  fear  of  its  taking  fire. 

Cricket^. 

The  fume  of  charcoal  will  driv^  them  away ;  or  a  little  white 
arsenic  mixed  with  a  roasted  apple,  or  snuff,  and  put  into  th« 
holes  and  cracks  whese  the  crickets  are,  wiU  effectually  deatioj 
them. 

Fkoi. 

Want  of  cleanliness  remarkably  contributes  to  the  produc- 
tion of  these  troublesome  insects.  The  females  deposit  their 
eggs  in  damp  and  filthy  places,  within  the  crevices  of  boards 
'  and  on  rubbish,  whence  they  emerge  ii>  the  form  of  fleas  in 
about  a  month.  Cleanliness  and  frequent  sprinkling  of  the 
room  with  a  simple  decoction  of  wormwood,  will  soon  exter- 
minate the  whole  breed  of  these  disagreeable  vermin ;  and  the 
belt  remedy  to  expel  them  fieom  bed-dothes  is  a  bag  filled  with 
drv  moss,  the  odour  of  whidi  is  to  them  extremdy  ofleosive. 
Fumigittion  with  brimstone,  or  the  firesh  leaves  of  pennyaftgdl 


.yU. 


I 


m 


MbANS  of  DSSTHOYINO  MOXIOUa  insects,  &Cs     6Q$ 

sewed  in  a  bag»  and  laid  in  the  bed,  will  also  have  the  dteaired 
effect* 

DogI  and  cats  may  be  effectually  secured  from  the  persecu' 
tions  of  these  vermhif  by  occasionally  anointiag  their  skin  with 
sweet  oil,  or  oil  of  turpentine,  or  by  rubbing  into  their  coats 
iMHoe  Scotch  snuff;  but  if  there  be  any  manginess,  or  the  skin 
be  broken^  the  latter  will  be  very  painfuL 

Flies. 

If  a  room  be  swarming  with  these  noisome  insects,  the 
most  ready  way  of  expelling  them  is  to  fumigate  the  apart- 
ments with  the  dried  leaves  of  the  gourd.  If  the  window  be 
opened,  the  smoke  will  instantly  send  them  out;  or  if  the 
room  be  close,  it  will  suffocate  them ;  but  in  the  latter  case,  no 
person  should  remain  within  doors,  as  the  fume  is  apt  to  occasion 
the  head-ach.  Another  way  is  to  dissolve  two  drachms  of  the 
extract  of  quassia  in  half  a  pint  of  boiling  water;  and  adding 
a  little  sugar  or  syrup,  agur  the  mixture  on  plates.  The  flies 
are  extremely  partial  to  tm  enticing  food,  and  it  never  fails  to 
destroy  them.  Camphire  plaoed  near  any  kind  of  food  will 
protect  it  from  the  flies. 

Uce. 

Want  of  cleanliness,  immoderate  warmth,  violent  perspira^ 
tion,  and  a  corrupted  state  of  the  fluids,  tend  to  promote  the 
generation  of  this  kind  of  vermin.  The  most  simple  remedy 
is  the  seed  of  parsley  reduced  to  a  fine  powder,  and  rubbed  to 
the  roots  of  the  hair,  or  to  rub  the  parts  affected  with  garlic 
and  mustard.  To  clean  the  heads  of  children  take  half  an 
ounce  of  honey,  half  an  ounce  of  sulphur,  an  ounce  of  vine- 
gar, and  two  ounces  of  sweet  oil ;  mix  the  whole  together  into 
a  liniment  and  rub  a  little  of  it  on  the  head  repeatedly.  The 
clothes-louse  may  be  destroyed  by  fumigating  the  articles  of 
,  dress  with  the  vapour  of  sulphur. 

Mice. 

The  poisonous  substances  generally  prepared  for  the  de- 
struction of  these  animals  are  attended  with  danger,  and  the 
use  of  them  ought  not  therefore  to  be  encouraged.  Besides 
the  Common  trsps,  jlmited  wilh  cheese^  th^  following  remedy 


4B8  B0lfiMriC430OllCCRT» 

Mil  betfouttd  bmbsttfe  and  clBcaeioMe.  Take n £ew htiMt 
of  wheaten  floor^  or  malt  meal,  knead  it  into  a  doughy  and 
ift  it  grow<aaiir  in  a  watm  plattf:  mix  wfth  iC  oone  fine  iron 
£liiigB»  fovm  the  ^wiiole  into  «Mdl>baU09  and  piit4faem  into  die 
iioles  'tequented  by  the  mioe.  On  ^eating  tkis  preparation, 
tbejr  Jdre  anevitably  killed.  'Cats,  oivls>  or  hedfe-kogs,  irouUi 
be  highly  useful  in  places  ii|ftirted'With  mice. . 

An  effectual  mouse^trap  may  be  made  in  the  following  man- 
ner. Take  a  plain  four-square  trencher,  and  put  into  the  two 
Mntaary  c»rBtt8:gf  it-A  kurge  pin  or  piece  of  Jk:ratttng  aeedle ; 
.  4iien  take  tfroirtioks  about  a  yard  loiig,  and  lay  them  on  libe 
dbreaser,  .with  ;a  notdh  cut  at  each  end  of  the  stick,  piscing 
Ike  tfrofiiDa  mt  the  notches,  soithat  one  comer  of  the  tsendier 
anayjfae  akoiit  an  inch  on  :tbe  dresser  or  shelf  that  the  nici 
JKune  io.  The  opposite,  oomer  «nust  be  baited  with  some  but* 
ta  SBd< oatmeal  -plasSeied  on  the  trencher;  and  when  the  mice 
Yon lowaods thebutter,  it  will  tip  tham  into  a glfced esrtiiea 
tiMssel  'fiill  ^  4iV!ater,  which  should  be  placed  undemeidi  fiif 
dhat  puspose.  To  prevent  'the  trencher  horn  tipping  overaa 
jas.'toilose  lis  kalaaoip,  itjmayibe  ia^tened  to  thediesserwitha 
a  thread  and  a  little  sealing  wax,  to  restore  it  4o  its. proper 
position. 

•jlPkoHgh  principally  solestiBig  .chaese,  thene  ave>8evanl  ipe* 
\<fias.af  tkas  inasct  breeding  tn  ioiir,  and  other  eatables,  asd 
aiccBaknttng  ooo^idembleinjiu'y.  The  «iO(St*ciiBptiial  method  d 
flxpriling'ilhesajLs  .to  place  a;few:nutm^8  in  tkeaack  or^bio  cod« 
Gaining  the:  flour,  the  jodeur  of  iwkieh.is  insupportable' to  mites; 
4ad '  diey  walLquicIely  be  cemoTod,  withoot  the  meal  aoqainng 
doiy  nnphauat  flaxranr.  Thiokboaaches  ef  the  hlac  ar eUir 
4aae  paeled-and  put  into  iheliour,  9^&1  have  the  aame  sAmI 
'i^uaatities  oaf  the  hq^st  siaed  ants,  -acattefad  about  disess- 
rooms  and  granaries,  would  presently  devpor  ^  4he  mH^ 
without  doing  any  injury. 

Dae  0f  jliesnost  speedy  remedies  Cmt  their  oamplelesBte^ 
aBUMtion  is  tbeamellof  tuepentixie,  wheibcr.itjjbebf  aprinkliqg 
it  aoH0iMcn4ttttfs»  or  fleeing  ahaeta  ef  ^mmmt  aaeistened  witfc 


MEAlf  S  OP  DESTRaYlNG  NOXIOUS  |N8BCTS|  ScC.     46T 

it  between  pieces  of  clodi.  Tt  is  remarkable  that  moths  are 
never  known  to  infest  wool  anvashed,  or  in  its  natural  state, 
but  always  abandon  the  place  where  such  raw  material  is  kept. 
This^  or  shavings  of  the  cedar,  small  slips  of  Russia  leather, 
or  bits  of  camphire^  laid  in  boxes  or  drawers  where  furs  or 
woollen  clothes  are  kept>  will  eflectually  preserve  them  from 
the  ravages  of  the  moth,  and  other  insects. 

Rats. 

The  means  of  destroying  these  offensive  vermin  are  too  nu- 
merous for  detail.  Dried  sponge  cut  in  small  pieces,  and  fried 
or  dipped  io  hopey,  will  distend  their  intestines,  and  effectually 
destroy  them.  The  addition  of  a  little  oil  of  rhodium  will 
tempt  them  to  eat  it.  Bird-lime  laid  in  their  |iaunts  will  stioh 
to  their  fur,  and  become  so  troublesome  as  to  cause  them  td 
tear  themselves  to  pieces  in  order  to  get  it  off.  A  mixture  of 
malt  dual  with  ^  little  butter,  and  a  drop  or  two  of  the  oil  of 
aniseeds,  made  into  balls,  will  entice  them  into  a  rat*trap. 
If  a  live  rat  were  caught,  and  well  anointed  with  a  mixture  of 
tar  and  train  oil,  and  afterwards  set  at  liberty,  the  offensive 
smell  of  this  preparation  would  compel  him  to  traverse  all  the 
holes  of  his  compsnions  with  the  most  distressing  axsxiety,  and 
caase  them  all  to  disappear. 

Spiders, 

These  industrious  insects  are  generally  loathed  and  destroy- 
ed, Uiough  tbe^  ate  extremely  ^ieful  in  reducing  the  number 
of  flies,  and  serve  as  a  very  accurate  barometer  £ar  the  wfathel'* 
When  they  are  toUlly  inactive,  it -is  a  certain  sign  that  rain,  will 
shortly  follow.;  but  if  they  continue. to  spin  duni^  a  shoMqrft 
it  indicates  that  this  rain  will  soon  be  over,  and  that  csikd.und 
fine  weather  will  succeed.    If  the  woadier.be  about  to  ^haidge^ 
and  become  wet  or  windy,  the  spider  will  make  ibe  supp^i^g 
of  his  web  very  short ;  but  if  the  threads  be  extend^  to^eo 
unusoal ,  langth,  the  weather  will  caaclfiu^  seveife  fbif  ttfn  or 
twelve  day  a  or  more,  luxiordiqg  to  the  length  yf  Che  threads 
which  support  the  web,  ,  «  • 

24  4  p 


. '  • »' 


^68  DOMESTIC  COOKERY* 


ON  LETTING  AND  HIRING  HOUSES  AND 

LODGINGS. 

JL  HE  proper  and  regular  way  of  making  a  distress  for  rent  in  * 
arrear  is  to  go  upon  the  premises  for  which  the  rent  it  due, 
and  take  hold  of  some  piece  of  forniture,  or  other  articles 
there,  and  say,  (if  the  distress  be  made  by  the  landlord  him*- 
self,)  '  I  seize  this  chair  (or  other  thing,  as  the  CEue  may  be)  in 
the  name  of  all  the  goods  and  effects  on  these  premises,  for 
the  sum  of  20L  being  half  a  year's  rent  due  to  meat  Lady-day 
last/  (Ok*  if  the  distress  be  made  by  some  person  empowered 
1)y  the  landlord)  say,  '  for  the  sum  of  ^01:  due  to  James  JoneSj 
e^q.  the  landlord  of  these  premises,  at  Lady-day  last,  by  virtue 
df  an  authority  from  the  said  James  Jones,  to  me  given  for 
that  purpose.' 

Houses  taken  by  the  year,  at  will,  require  half  a  year's 
notice  to  quit,  which  should  expire  at  the  time  the  year,  or 
half-year,  expires. 

Lodgings  taken  by  the  week  require  a  week's  notice  to  quit ; 
if  taken  by  the  month,  a  month's  notice ;  if  by  the  quarter, 
then  a  quarter's  notice ;  and  if  by  the  year,  then  half  a  year's 
notice  will  be  requisite. 

By  the  4  G.  II.  c.  S8.  'If  any  tenant  Ibr  life  or  years,  or 
other  person  who  shall  come  into  possession  by,  iVom,  or  under 
him,  shall  wilfully  liold  the  pmnises  after  die  determination  of 
the  term,  and  after  demand  made,  and  notice  in  writing  given 
for  delivering  the  possesabn  thereof,  he  shall  for  the  term  of 
gndk  detention,  pay  after  the  rate  of  deubk  the  jftar}^  vaitu 
theveof ;  to  be  recovered  by  action  of  debt  in  any  cesft  of 
rtooi'd.' 

And  by  the  11  G.  H.  e.  19.  s.  IS.-  *  If  any  tenant,  hmng 
IJdwer  to  deterniine  his  lease,  shall  give  notice  of  his  intention 
to  quit  the  premises  at  a  time  mentioned  in  such  n<itiee,  shall 
pot  accordingly  deliver  up  the  possession  at  the  time  in  such 
notiee  contained,  he,  his  cncecutora,  or  administrators,  shall 
from  thenceforward  pay  double  rent  for  such  time  as  he  con* 


ON  POV4B9  AMD  LOBOl^OS.  ^9 

iinuM  in  fqasemaa;  to  be  repoymd  ia  likp  maDnervatlie 
nDgle  rent*' 

Every  man  of  common  right  must  support  his  house«  so  that 
it  may  not  be  an  annoyance  to  another.  By  the  11  G.  II.  Cf 
19.  a  tenant  may  not  lawfully  remove  goods  from  a  house 
before  his  rent  be  paid,  without  leave  of  his  landlord.  Tbp 
law  allows  a  landlord  to  enter  a  house  to  view  repairs  ;  but  if 
he  breaks  the  house^  >>r  continues  there  all  night,  he  is  a  tres- 
passerj  and  the  law  will  judge  that  he  entered  it  for  that  purv 
pose.  And  in  case  of  two  exectttipn8>  there  must  not  be  two 
years'  r^t  paid  to  the  landlord ;  for  the  intent  of  this  act  wi^s 
to  reserve  to  the  landlord  only  the  rent  for  one  year,  and  it  was 
his  fault  if  be  let  it  run  more  in  arrear.  The  distress  for  rent 
must  be  for  rent  in  arrear ;  therefore  it  piust  not  be  made  the 
same  day  on  which  the  rent,  becomes  due,  for  if  the  rent  be 
paid  at  any  time  during  that  day,  whilst  a  m^n  can  see  to  count' 
it,  the  payment  is  good. 

Landlords  may  dispose  of  goods  or  chattels  within  thirty 
days  after  their  removal,  unless  such  goods -be  6ona^/e.  sold. 
When  such  goods  are- fraudulently  concealed,  tl^e  tenant  shall 
forfeit  double  their  valu^;  or  where  complaint  is  made,  the 
offender,  when  his  goods  will  not  pay  this  penalty,  shall  be 
committed  to  the  house  of  correction  for  six  months.  The 
landlord,  assisted  by  a  constable,  may  break  open  a  door  in 
the  day  time,  in  order  to  seize  goods,  which  he  suspects  are 
foncealcd. 

» 
Notice  fra$$  4  Laudht^d  to  a  Ten^mt  to  ^k  Hous^and  Premises,, 

Sir, 

I  hereby  give  you  notice  to  quit,  on  or  before 

Midsi;mmer-day  next,  the  house  and  garden  you  hold  of  me  at 

the  rent  of  twenty-five  pounds  per  ani^um.    Dated  the  10th 

day  of  March,  1823. 

Yours,  &C. 

.  William  Dean, 

Landlord  of  the  said  house  and  premises. 

To  Mr,  Daniel  Kenyon,  Manchester, 

N.  B.  The  notice  or  warning  to  quit  must  be  in  writing,  and 
directed  to  the  tenant  who  ia  in  possession  of  the  ptefliises. 


M*  BOMEftTlC  COOEBRT. 

Phtiee  frem  a  Ltmdhrd  to  a  Tenant  to  fuit  Apmrtmenti. 
Sir, 

I  hereby  give  70a  notice  to  quit  and  deliver  up,  on 
or  before  the  25th  day  of  December  next,  the  apartments  which 
you  now  hold  of  me  in  this  house.  Witness  my  hand  this  iSth 
day  of  December,  1822. 

John  HignetU 
To  Mr.  William  Newton. 

* 

Notice  from  a  Landlord  to  a  Tenant,  either  to  quit  the  Farm 
'  and  PremiteM,  or  pay  double  Rent.    Sec.  4,  Geo.  II.  c.  2&. 

Sir, 

I  hereby  give  you  notice  to  quit  and  deliver  up, 
on  or  before  the  ^th  of  January  next,  the  house,  farm,  lands, 
and  tenement,  which  you  now  hold  of  me,  situate  in  Uzbridge, 
in  the  county  of  Middlesex ;  iii  default  whereof  I  shall  require 
for  the  same  the  net  yearly  rent  of  one  hundred  pounds  (being 
double  the  present  yearly  rent  thereof)  for  all  the  time  which 
you  shall  hereafter  continue  poslsession.  Dated  this  4th  day  of 
October,  1822. 

James  Nixon,  landlord  of  the  said  premises. 
To  Mr.  John  Smith. 

Notice  from  a  Tenant  to  a  Landlord  to  qnit  Apartments. 

Sir, 

I  hereby  give  you  notice,  that  on  the  2dth  day  of 
December  next,  I  shall  quit  and  deliver  up  the  apartments  1 
now  hold  of  you  in  this  hott9e.  Witness  my  band  this  ]D(h 
day  of  September,  1922. 

John  Johnsoa 
To  Mr.  miliam  Smith. 


FINIS, 


KITCSBV  AM^  MOIT  OAEDBMS.  Ml 


.  V  . 


APPENDIX, 


•MAKA&BMENT  OF  KITCHEN  AND  FRUIT  GARDENS. 

* 

jThOUGH  the  management  of  tbfi  kkidieft  and  fruit  garden 
is  npt  tp  tm  ^^sidercid  as  die  direct  pronnce  of  the  house- 
kfiieper,  yet^aa  tb^ir pK^uctiona  $rt  90  eaaential  in  a  fiEonily*  by 
their  gr^  addi|i(^  to  «pokerj?«  it  caopot  be  thteight  improper 
for  the  principals  of  that  family  to  be  informed  of  the  neees- 
^iry  «t^^  thaft  Hl^Nlld  be  taken  iq  order  to  fuit^ish  the  Uhle  with 
aU^a^rtf  9f;plaols  and  roQtl^  .according  ta  tfaeu:  respective 
seasons. 

.  :TJ)i^|pnui4 point  ID  gardeniiig  is  to.  prepare  the  land  by  a 
fallow  for  a  future  crop.  In  the  latter  end  of  the  year»  or  im- 
mediately after  the  fruit  is  gathered,  the  soil  should  immedi- 
ately be  turned  up,  that  the  wee^  may  be  destroyed,  and  that 
th^  exbaitsted  e^r^may  saMitata  itself  with  nitre,  &e/  from 
the  atmosphere.  iMfiny  UWfb  their  ground  during  the  winter 
eitbfff  in  ridg^Sj  or  in  little.  rwn4.  beap$.  And  our  judgment 
is«  l^t  whateyer  mawiresare  pntx>n  the  faeds«  Aey  should  be 
jipr^  b^fo|i;e  t^i^  ^09ls  ^t  in,  that  thj&y  may  dissolve  by  the 
action  of  the  atmosphere*;  Mad  that  the  xains  may  wash  their 
virtues  into  tbs  ;86il.  Lime  has  a  fine  effect  in  correcting  the 
acids  of  decayed  vegetables ;  sand  will  relieye  an  excess  of  clay, 
and  clay  will  assist  a  sandy  soil  to  hold  the  rains  till  the  plants 
imbibe  more  of  its  moisture.  The  strongest  soil  we  are  able 
to  produce  consists  of  3  parts  sand,  3  parts  clay,  and  2  parts 
chalk.  But  in  all  qises,  the  soil  of  a  garden  should  be  deep, 
for  all  s^culent  plants  require  a  rich  and  deep  loam,  that  they 
may  acquire  perfection. 

The  monthly  instructions  of  this  book  will  be  found  tpo 
early  for  the  north  of  England :  therefore,  in  aU  ca^es,  we  should 
see  the  weeds  begin  to  grow  before  we  put  in  our  I^ger  crop| 
2  J  4  p» 


962  DOMESTIC  COOKBRT. 

of  beiiu,  peaSy  &c.  The  gardens  on  the  hills  reqaiie  shdter 
from  the  north  east  ^inds^  and  they  are  usually  ten  days  later 
than  gardens  on  the  plain. 

JANUARY, 

Kitchen  Garden* 

Throw  some  new  dung  in  a  heap  to  heat,  that  it  may  be 
ready  to  make  hot^beds  both  for  the  early  cucumbers  and  me* 
Ions  in  this  part  of  the  grdund^  and  for  raising  seeds  of  aDQiuk 
in  the  flower  gardeii. 

Dig  up  the  ground  that  is  to  be  sown  with  the  spring  cropi» 
that  it  may  lay  and  mellow. 

Nurse  the  cauliflower  plants  kept  under  glasses,  esxefiiDy 
ahut  out  the  frost,  but  the  middle  of  milder  days  let  in  a  littki 
air ;  pick  up  the  dead  leaves,  and  gather  up  the  mould  sboot 
the  stalks.  ^ 

Make  a  slight  hot  bed  in  the  open  ground  for  young  edid- 
log,  ^and.  place  hoops  over  it,  that  it  may  be  covered  in  vay 
hard  weather. 

Plant  out  endive  for  seed  into  warm  borders,  earth  and 
blanch  cdery. 

Fruit  Qarden.' 

Fittit  trees,  whether  in  orchards,  or  espaliers,  or  againflt 
walls,  defnand  the  same  general  management 

Cut  but  dead  wood  and  irregular  brandies,  clean  the  stanpi 
and  boughs  from  the  moss  with  an  hollow  iron ;  and  repair  es- 
pidiers,'  fastening  the  stakes  and  poles  with  nails  and  wire,  sad 
tying  the  shoots  down  with  twigs  of  osier. 

Place  stakes  by  new  planted  trees;  and  cut  grafb  to  be 
ready,  lay  them  in  the  earth  under  a  warm  wall. 

FEBRUABY. 

Kitchen  Garden. 

Dig  and  level  beds  for  sowing  radishes,  onions,  carrots, 
parsnips,  and  Dutch  lettuce;  leeks  and  spinage  should  be  aown 
now,  also  beets,  celery,  sorrel,  and  marigolds,  with  any  other 
of  the  liardy  kinds* 

Makeup  the  hot-beds  for  early  cucumbers,  and  sow  caiiU- 
Aowerseei)  and  some  others. 


KITCHSN  ANB  PRVIT  GARDENS.  609 

Plant' beans ^knd  sow  peas:  the  best  Wfly'm  those  uaefiil 
things  is  to  sow  a  new  crop  every  fortnight/  that  if  one  Qucceeds 
and  another  ikils^  as  will  oiten  be  the  case,  there  may  still  be 
a  constant  supply*  at  the  doe  season,  lor  the  table.  Plant  kid^' 
ney  beans  upon  a  hot-bed  for  an  early  crop.  '  The  dwarf,  whk^ 
Aid  Battersea  bean*  are  the  best  sorts.  They  mnst  have  ahr  in 
the  iniddle  of  mild  days  when'  they  are  up,  and  once  in  two 
days  they  must  be  gently  watered. 

Transplant  cabbages*  plsint  out  Silesia  and^cos  lettnoe  firom 
die  beds  where  they  grow  in  winter;  and  plant  potatoes  and 
Jernsalem  % rtichokes. ' 

Fruit  Garden^ 

Most  kinds  of  trees  may  now  be  pruned ;  though  it  often 
may  be  better  done  in  autumn:  whatever  has  been  omitted  at 
Aat  season  must  be  done  how,  the  hafdiest  kinds  being  [woned 
first;  and  sadi  as  are  more  tender*  at  the  latter  end  of  the  month, 
Ahen  diere  will  be  little  danger  of  :their  sufieriog  from  the 
frosts*  in  the  wonnded  part. 

Tranaplant  fruit  trees  to  places  where  they  are  wanted ; 
opening  a  large  hole*  settling  the  earth  carefully  about  their 
roots*  and  nailing  them  to  the  wall*  or  fiutening  them  up  to 
strong  stakes.  Nail  up  the  tender  trees  with  care*  and  uncover 
the  fig-trees  by  degrees  which  were  protected  from  frosts  by 
mats* 

Sow  the  kernels  of  apples  and  pears*  and  the  stones  of 
plums  fiir  stocks:  keep  off  birds  that  eat  the  buds  of  firuit  trees. 

MARCH. 

Kiiehen  Omrden. 

Sow  in  the  beds  of  the  kitchen  garden  some  carrots,  and 
also  the  large  peas*  rouhcevals  and  grey. 

In  better  ground  sow  cabbages  and  savoys*  also  carrots  and 
parsnips  for  a  second  crop*  and  towards  the  end  of  the  month 
put  in  beans  and  peas. 

Sow  parsley  and  plant  mint. 

Sow  cos  and  imperial  lettuce;  and  transplant  the  finer 
kinds. 

In  the  beginning  of  the  month  sow  Dutch  parsley  ^'^  ^^ 
roots. 


mt  DOMESTIC  COOKERT.  ' 

Tbe  last  week  take  adtanfsge  of  tiine«  dr  di«  dry'dsys^  tod 
make  aaparagiis  beds. 

Clear  up  the  artichoke  rdots,  slip  efF  the  weakest,  ahd 
plant  Aem  out  for  a  new  ^rop,  leaving  four  from  eadi  good  roel 
to  bear  ;  and  frorii  the  weaker^  two. 

Dig  op  a  warm  border*  and  aehnr  tome  French  beaaH;  M 
Ihem  have  a  dry  aoii^  and  give  thoii  no  watelt.tiil  they  kpfur^ 

Fruit  Gmrden. 

The  gnAs  which  were  cot  off  early/  and  laid  in  ibe  gnmod 
to  be  ready  for  use,  are  now  to  be  brought  into  aeririee;  ibott 
of  the  earliest  kinds  are  to  be  used  first,  and  the  apple  last  of 
all. 

ThiiB  done,  let  the  gardener  look  to  the  siod»  that  «rae 
inoculated  last  year,  and  tak^  off  their  heads.  A  hand'4  brfesdth 
should  be  left  on  the  above  place :  this  holds  the  bud  seeore  bf 
tying  to  it,  atid  the  nap  rises  mdre  fireely  fvr  ita  mwrlAingiit 
The  ftuit  ttea  that  were  planted  last  Odtoblsr  tiivst  be  heaiUd; 
and  they  should  be  cut  down  to  almost  feiir  eyes.  Some  kaf ^ 
<Aily  three,  but  ibur  is  inndi  better,  the  sap  rising'  thm  fitiely. 

APIULi 

Kiteheik  O^rOiHi 

•Plsnt  Ffehcli  beans,  dttd  ch6bse  fdr  tKifth  ^Vifffi' border. 
Plant  cuttings  of  sage,  and  other  aromatic  plants.  Sow  mafH0- 
'  fkt  pfeas,  dtid  |Sk<lt  som^  b^tl^  fbt*  a  lati^  ct^.       '  '-   ' 

Sow  thyme,  ^Weet-ttli^jb^m,  lind  sdVblry. 

Prepare  dung  for  making  ridges  to  receive  the  cucumber  or 
melon  plants  designed  for  beH  or  hand  glasses. 

Sow  young  salading  onis^  in  teh  days :  and  sow  some  cos 
and  Silesia  lettuces. 

The  seeds  of  all  kinds  being  in  the  ground^  lo^k  to  the 
growing  crops,  dear  away  the  w^ds  every  where  aipong  fbeia, 
and  dig  up  the  earth  between  the  rows  ^f  beans,,  pess,  sad  all 
other  kinds  that  are  planted  at  distances.  Tfais;giyestlie0i  s 
strong  growth,  and  brings  them  miie]i  ^ooner.tp  perfec|ioii  tbm 
can  be  done  by  any  other  method.  ^  .    ,  v 

Draw  up  the  mould  to  the  stalks  of  the  cabbages  and  00- 
.  flowjsr  plants;  and  in  cold  njgbts  cover  the  glasses  f^vef  the 
early  cucumbers  and  melons. 


KITCHBN  AND  FRVIT  GARDENS. 

thiit  GarAh. 

I/mIl  to  the  fruit  trees  against  the  walls  and  espaliers :  take 
off  all  foreright  shoots,  an^  train  such  as  rise  kindly. 

I'hin  apricots  upon  the  tre^s,  for  there' are  usually  many 
more  than  can  ripen. 

Water  new  planted  trees.  * 

Plant  cuttings  of  yine8>  and  locrft  ovtsr  the  grown  ones :  nip 
off  improper  sheets:  when  two  rise  from  the  same  eye,  always 
take  off  the  weakest. 

Weed  strawheny  beds,  cut  off  the  strings,  stir  the  earth  be- 
tween them ;  and  once  in  three  days  water  them. 

Dig  up  the  earth  in  the  borders  near  fruit  trees ;  never 
plant  any  large  kind  of  flowers  or  kitchen  thpgs  upon  them : 
And  it  is  better  if  nothing  be  sown  or  planted  on  these  borders ; 
they  all  starve  the  fruit 

MAY. 

•  * 

W«l^r  ohoe  in  two  days  tie  pH»,  beiitis,  and  oA^  Uf^i 
growing  piinb. 

DMiroy  Hie  weeds  tti  all  parts  <»f  the  giHmhd,  dtld  dig  up  ibk 
earth  between  the  rows,  and  about  the  stems  of  all  large  kinds. 

Sow  small  salad  once  vH  istn  days,  as  in  the  former  month, 
bnd  U^  the.  sane  time  teheiM  a  Wiurm  bbrder  aiid  soine  partfain ; 
sow  alsf»  endive^  and  plant  beans  and  p^as  ibr  a  very  large 
crop,  and.  Fi^nch  beans  to  soeeeed  the  otherk.  The  gredt  car4 
in  these  kinds  is  to  have  their  products  fresh  and  yooag 
throughout  the  season. 

Choose  a  moist  day,  and  an  hour  before  sun>>8eC  phoil  mit 
some  savoys,  eubbages,  and  red  cabbages,  draw  the  terth  bare- 
fllUy  up  to  their  sterns^  and  give  them  a  fe#  careful  wateHngs^ 

Fruit  Garden. 

If  any  fresh  shoots  have  sprouted  upon  the  fruit  trees  in  es- 
paliers, or  against  walls,  nifir^em  off,  and  train  the  proper  ones 
to  the  wall  or  poles,  at  due  distances,  and  in  a  regular  manner. 

Look  over  vines,  and  stop  every  shoot  that  has  fruit  upon  it, 
to  three  eyes  beyond  the  fruit.  Then  train  the  bt^atich^s  regu- 
larly to  the  wall,  and  let  stkch  as  are  d^gn^  for  next  year's 


WS  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

fruiting  grow  some  time  longer;  their  leaves  will  give  a  proper 
shade  to  the  fruit. 

Water  the  new-planted  trees^  and  keep  the  borders  about 
the  old  ones  clear ;  and  finally  pick  off  snails  and  other  vmnin. 

JUNE. 

Kitchen  €karden. 

Transplant  the  cauliflower  plants  sown  in  May :  give  them 
a  rich  bed  and  frequent  waterings. 

'     Plant  out  thyme,  and  other  savoury  plants  sown  before,  and 
in  the  same  manner  shade  and  water  them. 

Take  the  advantage  of  some  cloudy  weather  to  sow  tumips ; 
and  if  there  be  no  showers,  water  the  ground  once  in  two  dsjs. 

Sow;  broooli  upon  b  rich  warm  border^  and  plant  out  celery 
fivr  blanching.  This  must  be  planted  in  trenches  a  foot  and  a 
half  deep,  and  the  plants  must  be  set  half  a  foot  asunder  ^ 
the  rows. 

Endive  should  also  be  planted  out  for  blanching ;  bat  in 
this  the  plants  should  be  set  15  indies  asunder,  and  at  the  same 
time  some  endive  seed  must  be  sown  for  a  second  crop.  Pick 
up  snails ;  and  in  the  damp  evenings  kill  the  naked  alugs. 

Frmt  Garden. 

Repeat  the  taking  off  of  forerig^t  shoots  upon  wsll  and 
e^Hdier  trees,  whidi  we  directed  last  month.  Train  proper 
brandies  to  their  sitoatJons,  where  they  are  wanted;  once  again 
thin  the  wall  fruit ;  leave  nectarines  at  four  inches  distance,  snd 
the  peadies  at  five,  none  nearer;  the  fruit  will  be  finer,  and 
the  trees  stronger  for  die  next  year. 

Inoculate  the  a^icots,  and  choose  for  this  operati<0  < 
cloudy  evening.  Water  new  planted  trees,  and  pi<^  up  soaib 
and  vermin. 

JULY. 

Kitchen  Garden. 

Sow  a  crop  of  French  beans  to  come  in  late,  when  they  will 
be  very  acceptable. 

Clear  all  the  ground  from  weeds. 


KITCHXN  AND  FRUIT  OARDBN8.  W7 

Dig  between  the  rows  of  beaoe  and  peas,  mow  the  ground 
also  about  the  artichokes  among  the  cabbage  kind. 

Water  the  crops  in  dry  weather. 

Spinage  seed  will  be  ready  fiir  gathering  now,  as  also  that  of 
the  Welsh  onicm,  and  some  cthars:  take  them  carefully  oiT, 
and  dry  them  in  the  shade. 

Take  up  large  onions,  and  spread  them  upon  mats,  to  drj 
for  the  winter. 

Clear  away  the  stalks  of  beans  and  peas  that  have  done 
bearing^ 

Watch  the  melons  as  th^  ripen,  and  give  them  very  little 
wator.     Water  cucumbers  more  freely. 

Frtdt  Garden. 

Inoculate  peaches  and  nectarines. 

Take  off  all  foreright  shoots  in  the  espalier  and  wall  fruit 
trees. 

Hang  phials  of  honey  and  water  upon  the  fruit  trees,  and 
look  carefully  for  snails.  Keep  the  borders  where  the  fruit 
trees  stand  dear  from  weeds,  and  stir  the  earth  about  them. 
This  will  greatly  assist  the  fruit  in  ripening. 

Look  to  the  fruit  trees  that  have  been  grafted  and  budded 
the  last  season.  See  that  there  are  no  shoots  from  the  stocks. 
Whenever  they  rise  take  them  off,  for  they  will  rob  the  intended 
growth  of  its  nourishment. 

Look  carefully  to  the  new  planted  trees ;  water  them  often  ; 
and  whatever  shoots  they  properly  make,  &sten  to  the  wall,  or 
espalier. 

Repeat  the  care  of  the  vines,  take  off  improper  shoots,  and 
nail  any  that  are  loose  to  the  wall.  Let  no  weeds  rise  in  the 
ground  about  them,  fbr  they  will  exhaust  the  nourishment, 
and  impoverish  the  fruit. 


AUGUST. 

Kitchen  Garden. 

Sow  some  spinage  upon  a  rich  border,  and  on  such  another 
sow  onions.  Those  two  crops  will  live  through  the  winter, 
unless  very  severe,  and  be  valuable  in  the  spring. 

The  second  week  in  August  sow  cabbage  seed  of  the  early 
kinds ;  and  the  wedL  after  sow  cauliflower  seed,     »rbe  pUnts 


MB  f>OMSSTI0  eOOKBBT. 


to  pe  aimed  up  updcr  bfU^aiwciiip  tli»t  wialer.  Some  of 
these  may  afao  bey^atured  ki  a  vsevy  mM  defended  ntuitieD 
open.  The  last  week  of  this  nlOBlh  ^w  iiiio|lier  erop  to  snpply 
theplMsaf  th^Bein  oaieof  jnoeidentst  fiir  if  theaeaaonbevery 
.'terefe,  they  may  be  kbt;  and  if  veqr  mitd,  th^  will  run  to 
seed  in  spring.  These  last  crops  miMt  be  defended  by  a  hat- 
red fi'aine,  and  th^  mil  4itaa4  ouC  and  supply  4*fiaencieB. 

Sow  lettuces,  the  cabbage  and  brown  Dutoh  kinds, '  la  i 
•wahn  and  well  sheltered  piece  «ffrouad« 

« Transplant  some  of  the  lettuces  sown  earlier^  in  warm  and 
wen  ahekeradboBd^rs. 

Take  up  garlic,  and  spread  k  on  a  mat  to  harden;  in 
the  same  iQanner  take  up  onions  and  rocambole  ;  and,  at  tbe 
latter  end  of  the  month/  shalots.  ^ 

4 

fruii  Garden. 

Watch  the  fruit  on  your  wall*trees,  and  keep  off  devouren, 
of  whidi  there  are  numberless  kinds  now  swarming  about  diem. 
49hoot  birds,  pick  up  snails,  and  hang  bottles  of  sweet  Water 
far  ffies  and  wasps. 

Fasten  loose  branches,  and  gather  the  fruit  carefully  as  it 
npens. 

Once  more  go  round  the  vines,  and  pull  off  those  traitin|^ 
immcfaes  so  very  luxuriantly  produced  at  this  time ;  see  that 
the  fruit  is  not  shaded  by  loose  brandies,  ,and  keep  the  borders 
clear  of  weeds.  Hits  tends  more  than  is  imagined  towards  ibf 
n^ell^ripening  of  the  fruit      •      .        • 

SlCPTElfBER. 

.  ■         •  ' 

Kitchen  Gar(ie^» 

Sow  lettuces  of  various  kinds,  Silept^,  Go^  /md  Unkeb,  and 
when  they  come  up  shelter  them  carefully.  The  commoa 
practice  is  to  shelter  them  under  hand-glasses.  But  they  wUl 
thrive  much  better,  by  placing  beb^d  them  a  reed  hedge 
sloping  three  feet  forward,  (foVK  the  top  of  which  a  mat 
may  be  let  down  in  severe  weather,  and  tal^  up  aran  in 
mftd. 

Make  up  fresh  warm  beds  with  the  dung  that  has  lain  a 
month  in  the  heap.      Plant  the  spawq^  of  mushroofns  in  these 


KITCHBX  AND  FRmT  GARDENS.  609 

htda,  upon  pasture  mould,  the  same  tfaey  were  found  io^  and 
raise  the  top  of  the  bed  to  a  ridge^  to  throw  off  wet 

Look  to  the  turnip  beds,  and  thinihein  f  leave  the  turnips  at 
six  inches  distance.  ' 

Weed  the  spinage,  onions,  and  other  new-sown  plants. 

Transplant  sage,  lavender,  and  sweet  plants.  Earth  up 
oelery  as  it  grows  up  in  height. 

Sow  young  salading  upon  warm  and  well-sheltered  borders. 

Clean  asparagus  beds  in  this  manner :  cut  doim  the  stalks, 
and  pare  the  earth  off  the  surface  of  the  alleys,  throw  this  upon 
the  beds  half  an  inch  thick,  and  sprinkle  over  it  a  little  dung 
from  an  old  melon  bed. 

Dig  up  the  ground  where  summer  crops  have  ripened,  and 
lay  it  in  ridges  for  the  winter.  These  should  be  disposed  east 
and  west,  and  turned  once  in  two  months ;  they  have  thus  the 
advantage  of  a  fidlow. 

Plant  some  beans,  and  sow  some  peas  on  warm  and  well- 
sheltered  borders,  to  stand  out  the  winter. 

Fruit  Garden, 

The  fruit  must  now  be  gathered  with  care  every  day,  and  the 
best  time  is  an  hour  after  sun  rise.  Then  it  should  be  laid  in  a 
cool  place  till  used.  Such  as  is  gathered  in  the  middle  of 
the  day  is  always  flabby. 

Keep  birds  from  the  grapes,  for  as  they  now  begin  to  ripen, 
they  will  be  in  continual  danger 

Transplant  gooseberries  and  currants,  and  plant  straw* 
berries  and  raspberries:  they  will  be  rooted  before  winter,  and 
flourish  the  succeeding  season. 

OCTOBER. 

Kitchen  Garden, 

Plant  out  the  cauliflower  plants  where  they  are  to  be  shel* 
tered ;  and  it  will  be  proper  to  plant  two  for  each  glass,  where 
that  method  is  used,  for  fear  of  one  failing. 

Sow  another  crop  of  peas,  and  plant  more  beans  :  choose 
for  these  a  dry  spot,  and  well  sheltered  from  the  cold  winds  of 
winter. 

Transplant  the  lettuces  sown  last  month,  where  they  can 
be  defended  by  the  reed  hedge,  or  under  walls. 
25  4  0* 


679  POME&TI9  CpO|^B|tT. 

TraiMplaat  c^ba^e  plaate  4p4  ooteworts  'wheie  l|iey  are  to 
remain. 

Tj^e  great  care  of  the  cauliflpwer  plants  sowq  early  in 
summer :  they  now  begin  to  show  their  heads,  so  brj^  in  the 
leaves  upon  them  to  kej^  off  the  sun  and  rain,  it  wiU  both  har- 
den and  whiten  them. 

■  FVuft  Garden* 

Prime  the  peach  i^id  aectarine  trees  and  the  vines.  This 
is  a  very  useful  practice,  for  it  strengthens  the  buds  (or  qpring. 

Cut  gxapes  for  preserving,  with  a.  joint  of  the  vine  to  each 
bunch. 

Gather  fruits  for  winter  keeping  ^they  ripep.  Transpbuit 
all  garden  trees  for  flowering ;  ptunf  curn^nt^bushafl^  9^4  P^' 
serve  the  stones  qf  the  fruit  for  sowing. 

.    Kitehem  Gtwden. 

Weed  the  crops  of  spinage,  and  such  other  kinds  as  were 
sown  late ;  for  the  wild  growth  will  else  smother  and  starve  the 
crop. 

Dig  up  a  border  under  a  warm  wall,  and  sow  some  carrots 
for  spring ;  sow  radishes  in  such  another'  place,  and  see  the 
ground  be  well  and  deep  dug  for  both.  Tom  the  inould  that 
was  trenched  and  laid  up  for  fallowing ;  this  destroys  weeds, 
and  prepare&the  soil  to  be  enriched  by  the  air.' 

l^epare  some  hot-beds  for  salading ;  cover  them  five  indies 
with  mould,  and  sow  upon  them  some  lettuces,  and  the  com- 
mon small  salading,  mustard,  rape,  cresses,  and  radish. 

Plant  another  crop  of  beans,  and  sow  more  peas  for  a  suc- 
cession. 

Trench  the  ground  between  the  artichokes,  and  throw  a 
thick  ridge  of  earth  over  tibe  roots.  This  wiil  pseserve  them 
from  the  frost,  and  prevent  their  shotting  at  ao  improper 
time. 

Make  a  hot-bed  for  forcing  asparagos. 

Take  up  carrots  and  parsnips,  and  lay  then^  ia  sand  to  be 
ready  for  use.  Give  air  at  tiroes  to  the  plants  under  the  ksnd- 
l^aases  and  in  hot^beds,  or  they  will  suffer  as  mibc^  by  want 
of  that,  as  they  would  have  dpoe  by.  tfae.froit 


KITCHBK  AHP  FBUIT  «ABDBNS.  ni) 

Fruit  Garden, 

Take  ap  aU  trees  planted  for  standards,  or  the  winds  will 
rock  them  at  the  bottom,  and  the  frost  will  be  let  in  and 
destroy  them. 

Throw  a  good  quantity  of  pea  straw  about  them,  and  lay 
on  it  a  good  quantity  of  brick-bats,  or  pebbles,  to  keep  it 
fast ;  this  will  mellow  the  ground,  and  keep  out  the  frost. 

Continue  to  prune  wall-fruit  trees,  and  prune  at  this  time 
also  the  apple  and  pear  kinds.  Pull  off  the  late  fruit  of  figs, 
as  it  would  decay  and  rot  the  branches. 

DECEMBER. 

Kiteken  Gmrdm* 

Plaot  cabbages  And  aavoys  for  seed.  This  is  to  be  done 
with  graal  care*  THig  up  a  dry  {lorder,  and  break  the  mould 
very  well;  then  take  up  some  of  the  stoutest  ^otihagi^  jmd 
savoy  plants ;  hang  them  up  by  the  stalks  five  days,  and  then 
plant  them  half  way  of  the  stalks  into  the  ground,  draw  up  a 
good  quantity  of  the  mould  about  the  part  of  the  stalk  that  is 
out  of  the  ground,  and  make  it  into  a  kind  of  hill  round  each ; 
then  leave  them  to  nature. 

Sow  another  crop  of  peas,  and  plant  another  parcel  of 
beans,  to  take  their  diance  iot  suoceediBg  ^  other. 

Make  another  hot-bed  for  asparagus,  to  yield  a  supply 
when  the  former  is  exhausted.  Continue  to  earth  up  celery, 
and  cover  some  endive  with  a  good  quantity  of  pea-straw,  as 
it  is  growing,  that  you  may  take  up  when  wanted,  which 
otherwise  the  frost  will,  prev^irt* 

FinUGm-den. 

The  fruit-tree  business  of  this  month  is  principally  the  same 
as  in  the  last ;  that  is,  if  open  weather,  to  prepare  ground 
where  necessary,  to  ]^nl  with  919^  kind  of  fruit  trees  as  may 
be  wanted,  or  intended  for  planting  this,  or  the  two  following 
months  when  the  weather  admits;  but  for  fear  of  severe  frost, 
it  is  advisable  to  finish  the  principal  planting  early  in  the 
month,  all  however  that  is  intended  before  Christmas ;  and  as 
to  pruning,  it  may  be  continued  ^t  any  timip  when  convenient^ 
all  this  month. 


^ 


€12  DOMESTIC  COOKBRY. 

Standard-tree  plantings  may  be  forwarded  now  in  all  sorts  of 
open  weather,  as  apples,  pears,  plums,  cherries,  median, 
quinces,  mulberries,  almonds,  walnuts,  both  in  gardens  and 
orchards,  from  twenty  or  thirty  to  forty  or  fifty  feet  distance. 

Wall  tree  pruning  may  be  forwarded  in  peaches,  dcc- 
tarincs,  apricots,  pears,  plums,  cherries,  and  vines;  and  ac- 
cording as  each  tree  is  pruned,  nail  the  branches  horizoiitaUy 
to  the  wall,  four,  five,  or  six  inches  distance,  in  regular  order. 

Gooseberries  and  currants  may  be  planted  at  any  time  this 
month  in  open  weather,  having  them  with  dean  stems  and 
full  heads,  bearing  next  year,  &c.  and  either  planted  in  a  single 
range  round  the  quarters,  &c.  of  a  kitchen  garden,  lii  or 
eight  feet  distance,  or  in  wide  cross  ranges,  to  divide  the 
ground  into  breaks,  from  twenty  to  forty  feet  wide. 

Espalier  tree  planUng  may  be  performed  in  apples,  pan, 
fifteen  or  twenty  feet,  plums,  cherries,  quinces^  medlars,  fif- 
teen feet  distance. 


DIRECTIONS  FOR  PLACING  THE  PLATES. 


Frontispiece  to  face  vignette 
Vignette  to  face  frontispiece 

Carving.    Plate  1.    Cod's  head Page    14 

Carving.    Plate  3.    Htm  18 

Tmssing  -. SS 

Marketing  plate SO 

Family  dinners  for  January  and  Febniary  MS 

March  and  April  548 

May  and  Jane  S48 

July  and  Angnst 548 

September  Se  October.  548 

Novembor  4k  December  548 

Dessert  for  Winter  and  Summer 551 

*^*  Tlie  binder  will  observe,  that  the  aApendiz,   cempriiiitt  <iM 
■latMigement  of  the  kitchen  and  firnit  gardens,  is  intenoed  to  precede  the 

Index, 


INDEX. 


A 

anil  weather,  on Pe^e  501 

of  the  improvement  of,  in 

.  dweUinfohomes 688 

Ale,  China,  to  make 516 

{MMMt,  k^Wtlttam't  477 

Allapice,  eiucnceof  ...••• 800 

Almond  cake  candied,  w  gatean 

Noga..^ 450 

frase • 890 

8,  burnt,  red  and  wUte.^  448 

white-sagared  444 

Anebovy,  euence  of 300 

paste  301 

powder 301 

toast 471 

Aniseed  *••....* r...  580 

Apple  ibol  ««.««...«,,.< 443 

Apples,  dried. .«..# ,  457 

Apricots,  dried ^....  455 

to  keep,  fresh  all  the 

year  ,.,  440 

Arrowroot  ..*..»» ««. 475 

Artichokes 370 

Jenisaletn 309 

Articles^  list  of  variouf^,  in  season 

in  different  months.. 544 

Asparagns    364 

peas 364 

B 

Bacon,  excellent  • 133 

Somersetshire 125 

manner  of  curing  in  Wilt- 
shire   '. 125 

to  boil 126 

Westphalia  126 

Barl^  soger 441 

drops 441 

Barley  water ^,..  472 

Bar»,  bright,  of  polished  stoves, 

to  take  tfie  black  off ....;  615 

Bathiog,  of  ..V 659 

Beans>  to  boil 368 

Frenohw«« ,.....: 368 

Bechamel,  or  white  saoce...^ 287 

Beef  to  salt  red  ««■  .«..•. 44 

Botch  way  to  salt....«« 44 

ft4»-niode  ..«•« 44 

another  way 45 

a-la-royal  ....» » '  ii 


Beef,iHo8nde«ttof. :....Pag«  411 

booillie,  o^  fresh  beef  boiled   47 
cold,  bouilHe  a-la-maitre  d' 

hotel .» ;;.    48 

hams  .• 40 

rmnp  of,  to  stew ,.    491 

another  way    60 

rump  of,  to  luke  5(1 

leg  of,  to  stew  v 60 

round  of,  to  boil  • 51 

leg  of,  to  bake 61 

round  of,  forced  51 

ribsof,  to  roast 59 

ribso^  stuffed,  to  roast...    52 

brisket  of,  to  stew 4 62 

another  way    52 

to  press • 58 

hunter's,  to  make 68 

ejKcellent  mode  of  dressing    64 
a  nice  way  of  dressing  un- 
derdone      54 

to  collar  ...••*,.  ....•.••*. 54 

collar  o^  roasted i 54 

ste^Sy  to  broil .'    55 

common  way  of  frying    55 
to  fty*  another  way. ..    5& 

and  onions  56 

and  oyster  sauce   ...•    66 

Staffordshire  • -    .56 

Italian  \,^„ 66 

to  stew 67 

rolled    67 

coUops  .1..,,, 5T 

pAlates ^ «....    6(7 

sirloin  of,  to  roast  with  the 

inside  minced ,.    5.8 

sirloin,  the  inside  of  a,  cold, 

to  dress 58 

sirloin,the  inside  of  a,fbr ced    60 

kidneys  .«. * 50 

hang  ...» ;    60 

fricassee  of  cold  roast. .....    60 

«lives 60 

senders  • 6ti 

cecils  ..w...    6> 

to  pot M...    60 

^thetway  6V 

to  mince .....«, 61 

to  hash ....••—    ^'^ 

hMhed,  and  b^:\V:A\>tf«**-  ^ 
traabling  ,,7^*^  ^IT*-  -   ^ 


INDEX. 


Beef  family Page  63 

red,  for  slioea 68 

rolled,  that  eqaals  hare  ...    63 
porcupine,  to  nake  of  th^ 

flat  ribs  of ...m..*'.    6S 

Beer,  cherry 6t6 

excellent  sprace 614 

treacl| 61& 

Dr.  Stonehoiue's- 
manner  of  making  61S 
Beetroots,  advantages  of  baking, 

instead  of  boiling  t66 

red,  to  boil .. .- 866 

Beetles,  to  destroy   658 

Billsof  fare ^ 644 

Birds,  a  cheap  way  of  potting...  917 

small,  to  roast •  SIS 

Biscuitdrops  • 405 

cake «.... 406 

Ameriicanpo^4ish'>^....  406 

Btscnitf,  ratafia  drop...:..i ..'.  409 

^  best  Naples. M 409 

excellent,  for  cordials..  400 

fine  light 410 

chocolate 410 

sweet  and  bitter  almond  410 

best  Savoy  ;.  411 

)>est  delicate  sponge....  411 

Offrait 448 

Bitters,  wine 640 

spirituoi|s..... 640 

m '»  640 

very  good  .M 640 

Black  caps  '. 447 

Black  cock,  to  roast  217 

Blamange  or  bianc-mange 488 

Blond  lace,  to  wash  .:.... 698 

Boards,  to  keep  clean,  and  of  a 
brown  coloiir,  without  washing  618i 
and  iarge  tables,  to  take 

.  spots  oi(t  of  ..;^ 620 

Bockings »....;. :.....  866 

Body,  cleanlmesswith  respect  to 

the 665 

Bonne  boache,  for  goose,  dnck, 

or  roast  pork  888 

Bragget,  an  ancient  British  liqnor  688 
Brandy,  cherry,  or  cheriy  ratafia  634 

caraway  684 

orange  684 

raspberry 634 

teread  cmmbs,  fried 280 

observations  relative  to...  491 
nnadoiterated  English  ...  498 

.    excellent  family •••...  404 

•jftoe  French. «.•  494 

ner.  Mr.  Hagget*s  econo- 
mical   495 

itttdiet 496 

, 496 

M....%. 490 


Bread,  rice Page4M 

Brewing,  instmctions  for. MS 

Brocoli S6S 

Broken  bones 681 

Brotfay  barley,  Dr.  Kitchiner's  re- 
ceipt to  make. SSS 

beef   ^ 8SS 

Teal 8S4 

mutton M 

Scotch  mutton 234 

Scotch  barley tU 

ohlcken 2S( 

spring S36 

without  meat  ttO 

to  cUrify SB 

Broths,  observations  on  SM 

Browning ., »» 

Braises,  of „ m 

Bubble  and  squeak ^ 69 

Bugs,  to  destroy..... 6SS 

Buns,  excellent  caraway  comfits  405 

plain ^411 

richer 4U 

seed 411 

excellent  Bath...............  41) 

Burns,  of S*8 

Batter,  to  choosy .;...  V 

melted ..«* 

clari^ed S63i 

fresh,  Oerman  method  of 
clarifying  ibpreservuig  964 

burnt »4 

oUed ttt 

parsley  and    86Si 

fennel  and,  fbr  mackarel  V6 
observations  reapecting.  04S 

to  make  .•.. 644 

Dutch  method  of  makhig  644 

to  preserve    6tf 

to  preserve  for  Winter...  64S 
AOuermux  ...................  .m«.*  ^^m 

q 

Cabbage  : 80 

Cake,  a  common...... i^ 

very  good  common S9j 

very  one  l» 

^ery  rich  tweUth S9 

bride  or  weddiqc  .*.......  397 

the  Conntesa  of  JNtUandy 
famous  Banbury  bride.^  ^ 

plain  pound  308 

plum  pound ^ 

common  .seed   398 

cheap  M^ed 399 

rice 409 

almond 403 

Savoy » or  sponge  in  mould  403 

diet  bread 404 

.    biscuit 496 

Cake*,  flat,  th^t  keep  kmgin  the 

hoQse  good  •••. •••  SM 


INDEX. 


M 


C«kefl>  litfle  white Page  805 

little  short S95 

Derby,  or  short 396 

Tenr  ^ ood  common  plmn  308 
little  plnm,  to  keep  long  308 

common  bread 309 

qneen 390 

rich  Shrewsbury  400 

^Hmbridce 400 

fename  Bristol 401 
^ortngal 401 

heart  401 

fine  ginger,  for  cold  wea- 
ther   401 

fine  French  macaroons...  402 

common  macaroons 409! 

raspberry ....« 409 

currant  .i..  ..  403 

ratafia 404 

excellent  caraway  comfits  405 

American  pot  ash 400 

fHtger 406 

nmoiis  Bath 49S 

'  Sally  Limn's  tea 490 

•fine  Yorkshire 500 

•    ont t 501 

Cair«  Irter  ..- 01 

to  roast 91 

•    and  bacon,  to  fry  ...    91 
•  and  lights,  to  dress..    01 

-  heart,  to  roast 91 

head,  to  boil 86 

one  half  boiled  and 
the  otlier  baked    87 

to  hash 87 

fricasseed 88 

to  collar 88 

brains,  to  fry 99 

fikt,  to  fricassee 99 

Cambrics  to  wash  699 

C^poKs,  to  roast 198 

Caraway  530 

Carp'y  to  boil  165 

to  fry 165 

to  stew  with  Kttle  trouble 

'  •    or  expense  165 

to  hake 166 

'   to  pot    166 

'  single  one,  to  make  tliree 

didiesof  166 

Carpets,  t&clean  619 

to  dost 619 

Carrots ; 367 

Canning,  directiom  for 13 

fish  •....;...4 14 

meat 15 

poultry  and  game  19 

Cask  musty,  to  sweeten 528 

Catsup^  walnut • 302 

mushroom  302 

oyster %..........  305 


Catsup,  tiiat  will  keep  good  more 

than  twenty  years 308 

cockle  and  muscle 306 

Caudle 474 

cold ^  474 

rice 4T4 

Caulifiower '..  S63 

Cayenne  pepper 289 

essence  of. 290 

Celery,  essence  of 301 

Chairs,  to  clean  019 

Chambermaids,  Instructions  to  .  60S 

Champagne,  English 517 

Chantilly  basket,  a  rich 463 

Charlotte 351 

Cherries,  dried 455 

Cheese,  to  choose 37 

damson,  or  refined  dam« 
son  cheeses  or  biscoits .  460 

and  toast  buttered 469 

pounded 469 

observations  respecting...  630 

tomake 640 

sage,  to  make 641 

Olocestershire  green 641 

delicate  cream 649 

net 649 

tomake  sound 643 

Cheesecakes,  excellent 413 

a  plainer  sort  of 413 

lemon 413 

orange 414 

bread  414 

almond. 414 

food  potato 414 
elicatericck 415 

Chicken  currie% 206 

another  way 204 

Chickens  to  boil 201 

to  broil 209 

to  fry 209 

to  roast.. ..«•.., 209 

to  hash  ^.., 209 

to  stew «  2Qt 

to  fricassee 203 

to  pull 203 

another  way 203 

to  braise 204 

to  fatten  in  four  or  five 

days   649 

Chinmey-pieces,  marble,  to  clean  616 
stone«  to  blacken 
the  fh)iits  of  ...  616 

China  ale,  to  make 516 

China  chito 139 

Chinese  temple,  or  obelisk 464 

Chocolate 480 

Cider,  best  method  of  making...  540 
Ciderkin,  perkin,  purre,  or  water 

cider .^      ,,,., *  459 

Claret,  finglish  .    * *^* 


664 


*• 


I>P£X. 


Cloaks^  scarlet,  to  wash  ...Page  6]0 

Cloth,  to  take  spots  out  of. C05 

in  gralu,  to  take  spots  out 

of 006 

to  take  out  grease  or  oily 

spots,  in 606 

.    to   take  spots  of  ink  or 

wine  oat  of 60G 

best  method  of  whitening  GOT 
Cocoj  tdmmon,  or  cacao  shell ...  480 

Ced/to  boit ^  157 

slices  of,  to  boil 1S8 

to  broil 158 

to  stew 158 

crimp Z60 

•oondSfto  boil, «....  100 

to  boil,  to  look  like 

chicken  ICl 

to  fricassee............  161 

to  broil 101 

ragout  «...  161 

currie  of 162 

salt,  to  dress 162 

Cod's  head,  to  boll 158 

to  bake  ,..  150 

Uil,  to  dress  160 

Co41ins  and  cream 446 

to  scald 447 

(Toffe'e^^nglish  modes  of  making  478 
'  best  Turkish  method  of 

making 470 

management  of,  in  France  470 

Colcannon  '• S61 

Cold;  effects  of 686 

Colouring  for  soups  or  gravies...  255 

Colours,  the  preparation  of 302 

Comfits,  caraway  ..^ «.  439 

Scotch 440 

Cardamon,  commonly 
called  sugar  plums.     440 

Compote  of  apples 461 

of  pears 461 

Compounds  and  cordials,to  make 

.^  alum  finings  for 580 

Contectionary,   observations  on  377 

ornaments  in  ...  462 

Cook-maidsy  instructions  to 627 

i^ordial^  clove,.........* 631 

cinnamon 682 

gin,  or  French  ratafia...  632 

macaroni ^ 588 

queen's 63i 

J'rifice's  688 

gins,  or  fine  English 

Hotlands 636 

Cordtab,  observations  on 616 

Corns  and  warts,  to  cure 580 

Cows,  on  the  management  of ...  637 

Crab«,to  dress  hot, ,  186 

cold v««  186 

Cfwkncj^pB  of  Wight  .: iH 


Crack-nuts ...•,•••••  ...Pajc404 

Cra>'fish  in  jelly 1^ 

to  stew 187 

to  pot 187 

Cream,  clouted  or  clotted 295 

rich,  for  fruit  pics  or  tarts  S91 

an  excellent 418 

burnt.. 418 

sack 419 

brandy 4l9 

ratafia , 419 

lemon. ...i 419 

yellow  leinon,  without 

cream    ^ 420 

white  lemon 420 

excellent  orange.........  420 

imperial 420 

almond  ..!..... 421 

snow 421 

scalded,  or  clouted 421 

coffee  421 

chocolate 422 

codtin 428 

ice,  of  strawberries,  or 

other  fruits 422 

Italian  , 42$ 

spinach ••«.••.. ^  42S 

SiStacuio  •«.  M«. •.••*......  ^*' 
panish « 423 

steeple 424 

barley •» 484 

and  milk,   to  keep......  646 

Crickets,  to  destroy  ...^ 654 

Crumpets 499 

Crust,  short 381 

very  line,  for  orange  cheese- 
cakes, or  sweetmeats...  382 

Cncmnberj  stewed...". 370 

Calinary  poisons,  observations  on  55S 

Cnllis^  or  thickened  gravv 269 

Curd  star ..,...;.; 1 446 

Curds  and  cream 446 

Cnrrants,  to  keep 451 

Carry  balls  for  mock  turtle,  veal, 
poultry,  and  made  dishes......  201 

Cttrtain«,  damask,  to  clean 610 

Costards,  plain • 415 

rich 415 

cheap  and  excellent...  416 

baked 416 

boiled  ....••.••••MM.««M»  416 

almond 416 

lemoji.... ..M  417 

orange  ••••...••..•.....•.  417 

rice 417 

becst 417 

gooseberry ..» ^  418 

D 

Dabs,  to  boil ^ 176 

Pairy ,  on  the  manageiBttDt  of .Uie  037 
Pairy-maidsi  direSioat  t»  -*•••  627 


INDEX. 


66& 


DaOMon  cheese  - Page  460 

DamMnu,  to  keep/or  winter  pies  455 

dried 466 

Desserts  .^ 551 

Binners,  family 548 

geDeral  remarks  on  ...  549 

Dish,  a  lery  nice 149 

a  pretty  supper  470 

•  covers,  block-tin,  to  clean  623 
Dishes,  directions  for  placing  on 

the  table 552 

Dislocations,  of 581 

Domestic  management,  observa- 
tion on 1 

Drowned  persons 588 

Dock,  dressed,  to  dress 196 

Dncks,  to  boil    ; 905 

*  to  roast  205 

to  stew  , 205 

with  green  peas  205 

.    to  hash  206 

dressed,  hashed  206 

management  of.I.'. 649 

Domplings,  saet SS8 

apple •    848 

yeast,  or  Suffolk 850 

Dnn  birds,  to  roast  218 

E 
Eels,  ready  method  of  roasting.  178 

to  boa  178 

tofiy 178 

Spitchcocked 178 

to  bake  179 

to  pot  179 

excellent  collared  180 

sauce 266 

Egg  balls. 294 

Eggs,  to  choose  and  preserve...    87 

and  bacon,  to  fry 126 

to  poach... 407 

to  boil,  to  eBi  in  the  shell, 

orforsalads 468 

poached    with  sauce    of 

minced  ham 468 

fried,  and  minced  ham  or 

bacon    468 

Eyes,  on  the  treatment  and  pre- 
servation of  the  569 

F 

Fawn,  to  dress  96 

Feathers,  management  of  652 

Fennel  and  butter  for  mackerel.  266 
Figs,  to  keep  fresh  all  the  year.  449 
Finings,  alom,for  spirituous  com- 

pouids  and  cordials  589 

Fish,  to  choose  82 

observations  on  dressing..  149 

Fits,  of  iWnting 587 

Flannels,  to  make,  keep  their 

colour,  and  not  shrink  626 

Fleas,  to  destroy   654 

24  4q 


Plies,  to  destroy Page  655 

FUp  476 

Floatmg  island  46S 

Floor-cloths,  to  clean 618 

Floors,  to  dust  619 

Flounders,  to  stew 176 

to  boil.....7. 176 

to  fry ^  182 

Flour  and  bread,   observations 

relative  to 491 

Flowers,  essence  of 602 

Flummery,  common 485 

Dutch   485 

French 436 

rice 436 

Solomon's  temple  in..  436 

Forcement  stuffings  291 

veal  298 

balls  for  turtle,  mode 

turtle,or  made  dishes  294 

iish 294 

Fowl,  dressed,  to  dress 196 

Fowls,  to  boil 19T 

to  boil,  with  rice  106 

to  roast  198 

to  broil  iin 

another  way^ l99 

to  hash 199 

Davenport 200 

a  nice  way  to  dres8,for  a 

small  dish  / 200 

to  force  200 

to  braise 201 

to  blanch  226 

management  of 047 

to  fatten,  in  four  or  hve 

days 649 

Fraze,  almond Z50 

Fritters,  observations  on 351 

to  make  352 

potato 358 

parsnip 358 

custard 353 

apple 358 

water   354 

rice  354 

chicken S(>4 

orange  354 

strawberiy  355 

raspberry 355 

currant 355 

German    355 

Frontigniac,  English 517 

Froth,  to  set  on  cream,  custard 
or  trifle,  which  looks  and  eats 

well  424 

Fruit,  any  sort  of,  to  candy 457 

Fruit  in  jelly  431 

Fry  big  herbs,  as  dressed  in  Staf- 

fordshiie  371 

Furmety..... 47e 


i 


<w 


WPlSi. 


Farnitare,  silk,  to  clean...  Page  610 

worsted,to  clean 610 

G 

Game,  to  cboose..... 85 

directions  for  dreftsing  . .  103 

ragotitsof. ^...•..  107 

directioins  for  keeping  .  •  213 

Gateannoga 450 

Ganze,  to  wash ,  606 

Geese,  dressed,  bashed    206 

management  of 640 

Giblets,  to  stew 208 

Gilding,  to  clean  and  preserve..  621 

Ginger,  essence  of. 301 

cakes 406 

drops 441 

candied 458 

Gingerbread    406 

a  plain  good  sort  of  407 

without  hotter 407 

best  Dutch 407 

orange 408 

nuts 40S 

rich  sweetmeat,nat8  408 
Gold  and  silver,  to  preserve  from 

tarnishing : 600 

Goose, dressed, to dre«s ... .'  ...  106 

to  boil 206 

to  roast 206 

green,  to  roast  ........  207 

to  ragout 207 

Gooseberries  and  other  fruits,  to 

bottle  for  keeping 450 

to  keep 454 

Gooseberry  fool 442 

Gravies,  observations  on     .....  226 

colouring  for 255 

Gravy,  to  clarify.. 255 

excellent  keeping  ....  258 

beef 258 

strong  savoury 258 

thickened,  or  cullis . . .    250 
for  roast  meat ...  ....  250 

for  boiled  meat 260 

veal 260 

without  meat 260 

a  rich 260 

mutton,  for  venison  or 

hare 261 

for  a  fowl  when  there  is 

no  meat  to  make  it  of  261 
to  make  mutton  eat  like 

venison 261 

strong  fish 261 

onion,  brown  274 

the  Spaniard's  garlic . .  276 

Grouse,  to  roast 217 

Gruel •-••  473 

Guinea  fowl   220 

hens,  management  of  . .  651 


H 

Haddocks^  to  hbii ^Afe  17S 

nndhom .    17S 

Haddocks,Scotchwayof  dresfiiig  179 

todry 174 

Halls,  to  clean. ..••  «•••  61S 

Ham,  to  cure  ...  •  ....,••.•  110 

other  ways 118 

that  gives  a  high  flavour..  IIS 
that  gives  a  still  higher 

flavour 119 

to  cure,  the  Torksbire  way  191 

New  England 122 

genuine  Westphalia  ,...  12S 

to  boil   19s 

to  roast 1^ 

to  pot 1^ 

Handkerchiefs,  silk,  to  wash..  608 
Hands,  chopped,  paste  for....  601 
tib  take  spots  or  stains 

from ^•...  606 

Hangmgs,  faded,  to  clean   .  • . .  607 

paper,  to  clean 6t9 

Hare,  to  roast. «    2ii 

mock ,...., 

to  jug   . 

another  wiO^-»**«^ 
hodge-podged 

to  hash •....••^.. 

to  broil  .•..,...•• ...... 

topot ...*,.... 

Hares,  or 921 

Health  and  beauty,  rules  for  pre- 
serving   ....  559 

Heart,  beast's,  to  make  a  mock 

bare  of •....• 64 

beast's  larded ^ 

bullock's,  to  bake  « Q4 

Hearth  of  freestone,  to  clean  .-616 

brick,  to  clean 616 

Hedffehog,  to  make  a 437 

Hen  s  nest,  an  elegant  •  •  • 462 

Herbs,  frying,  as  dressed  in  Staf- 

tbrdshire ,..*...  371 

sweet  and  savoury^  to /dry  372 

Herrings,  to  boil m 

tobroU  «...  i{|2 

to  fry  ....vr. 182 

•  to  bake   ig3 

topot ,.  193 


toamoke m 

red,  to  dress i83 

Hos,  Buckinghamshire  method 

of  kiUinff  and  ciiring i|o 

Hog's  head,  to  make  exoeUeat 

meat  of m 

cheek,  todry 112 

ears,  to  force «..  US 

lard  ...., 117 

Hollands,  fine  English,  and  other 
cordial  gins 536 


«. 


IND£:X. 


667 


AorehMidd,'  cindied. , . : .  .^age  458 

Hotck«potch 139 

House  rambyfore-qnarter  of. . . .  141 
steaks,  white  ....  14S 

brown 143 

Housekeepers^  instructions  to. .  59t 
Housemaidr,  instructions  to. . . .  613 
Houses j  on  iettinff  and  liiring...  698 
Hypocras,  admirable  English  •  •  537 
J  • 

Jam,  raspberr^" 424 

delicious  aprieot 486 

cherry  425 

currant,  htack,  fed,  or  White  425 

gooseberry 426 

for  tarts 426 

Jannmaiige ^••*  432 

Ice,  to  prepare  for  icings 426 

waters 227 

strawberry  water 427 

bunch  of  grapes,  water,  • . .  427 
brown  bread  . . : 427 

Icmg-  fbr  firnit  tatts,  puffs,  or 

EMtry     3®1 
y,  savoury,  to  piit  over  cold 

pies 262 

to  cover  cold  fish    262 

calves' feet  ..., 428 

hartshorn * 428 

apple 429 

green  or  red  gooseberry  .  .  430 
red,  white,  &  black  currant  430 

rice    481 

orange 431 

frttitin 431 

savoury 431 

apple,  for  preserving  sweet- 
meats     ..,..  482 

Insects,  noxious,  to  destroy. . . .  653 

Intoxication,  of 685 

John  Dorey,  to  boll  177 

Iroui  to  preserve,  from  rust. , . .  615 

Ironinff,  directions  for 626 

Jumbdb,  Barbadoed 405 

Junket,  Devonshire 438 

K 
Khchen -maids,  directions  to .. .  628 

Li 

Lace,  to  wash *  698 

gold  or  silver,  to  clean  ....  599 
Lady's-maid,  instructions  to  . .  597 
Lambjleg  of  boiled,  and  loin  fried  1 40 

to  roast.. 140 

and  cuenmbers 140 

fore-quarter  of,  to  roast . .  141 

quarter  of,  forced 141 

breast  of,  atnd  cucumbers  141 
shoulder  of,  to. roast  ....  142 
forced,    with 

sorrel  sauce  142 
gnlled 142 


Lamb,  shoulder  of^&  sorrel  sauce  142 
*  loin  or  neck  of,  to  fry   . .  142 

-  ribs'Of,  to  roast 142 

grassy  to  boil 143 

steaks   : 143 

chops 143 

cutlets,  with  spinach ....  144 
with  cucumber 

sauce  144 

'  Mth  mashed  po- 

tatoes 144 

hashed,  and  broiled  blade 

bone 147 

Lamb*s  fry 144 

head;. 145 

another  way 145 

-      and  hinge.. 145 

minced 145 

to  stew 146 

sweetbreads 146 

rumps  and  ears,  brown. .  148 

white  . .  148 

bfts    148 

feet,  witli  asparagus  peas  148 

Lambstoues,.  fricasseed 147 

ami  sweetbreads, 
fricassee  of  ....     147 

Lampreys,  to  fry 181 

to  stew 181 

-     to  stew  as  at  Worcester.  181 

Laarks,  to  roast 213 

Lavender,  essence  of, 602 

Laundry-maids,  instructions  to..  623 

Lawns,- 1^  starch. .- 613 

Lemon  chips    457 

drops 442 

>  peelyto  mix  with  stuffing.  295 

• "  essence  of 300 

tinctnreof 300 

candied 467 

water,  a  delightful  drink  476 
Lemonade,  or  orangeade  ......  476 

Lemons,  to  keep,  for  puddings . .  464 

Lent  potatoes  ; . . ; 446' 

Leveret,  to- roost 224 

Lice^  ta  destroy 655 

Lin^,  to  take  spots  out  of  ....  695 

'  ofittkorwine 
■     •  ontof. ...  606 

of  iron  moulds 
out  of  . . . .  607 
stains  made  by  fruit 

out  of 626 

ink  spots  out  of . .  626 
the  mildew  out  of  626 
to  make  white,  that  b  tam- 
ed yellow 0bf 

not  'Used,  to  keep  from 

damage  007 

to  prepare  for  washing  . .  624 
to  Doil 625 


668 


IND£X. 


Lips,  chopped Page  601 

Lobsters,  to  boil 184 

to  roast 184 

to  pot 184 

as  at  Wood's  ho- 
tel   185 

to  stew 185 

buttered. .  185 

Carrie  of 185 

Looking-glasses,  to  dean 022 

M 

Macaroni ..;...  470 

English  way  of  dressing  471 

stewed 471 

Macaroons,  common 403 

fine  Trench 408 

Mackerel,  to  boil  170 

to  bake - 171 

to  broil 171 

to  pickle  171 

pickled,calledcaveah  171 

roe  sance ; 966 

Mahogany , to  take  inkstains  out  of  620 
to  give  a  fine  colour  to  621 

Maids,  to  dress  165 

Malt  liquor  yinsti'uctions  for  brew- 
ing  502 

Management,    observations  on 

domestic  » •.      1 

Marketing,  of. 28 

Marmalade^  apple 459 

orange    450 

transparent   ,  460 

Marrow-bones 67 

Match,  to  match  wines  with  .  ••  529 
Meat,  observations  on  keeping 

,  «nd  dressing  ».. 88 

on  boillDg 40 

on  roasting.   • 41 

on  baking : ^42 

on  broiling  and  frying ....     4S 

Meats,  to  choose   ...  31 

Medicines,  on  patent  and  quack  572 

Melted  butter 262 

Mice,  to  destroy..... •^m  655 

Midcalf,  to  dress  a Oi 

Milk,  ground  rice 475 

rice  and  sago 475 

and  cream,  to  keep  ....  646 

Mites,  to  destroy 656 

Mock  brawn   114 

Mocktnrtle 88 

other  ways •     89 

^      mock  turtle,  Lister's. ..  •     90 

pheasant « •  • .  215 

hare 222 

Moor  game,  to  roast 217 

topot 217 

Moths,  to  destroy  ..••.'.......  656 

Mountain,  English ^.,.  518 

Mvftns  and  crumpets,  to  make  499 


Mullet,  red....« Page  172 

Miun,  Brunswick 537 

Muscle  catsup S06 

Muscles,  to  ragout..* 198 

tostew 192 

Mushroom  catsup  308 

powder 305 

Mushrooms,  to  dry.. 304 

quintessence  of....  304 

Muslin,  to  wash 598 

Muslins,  fine,  to  wash 610 

to  rinse,  before  being 

starched  611 

fine,  to  starch  611 

to  clap  before  ironed  ..  618 
proper  method  of  iron- 
ing   618 

Mustard   888 

keeping  - 889 

in  a  minute 8S9 

Mutton,  observations  on  cutting 

and  d/essiuff 187 

leg  of,  to  boil ...  187 

with  cauliflowers 

and  spinach ...  187 
to  roast  ..^......^  188 

to  dress,  to  eat 
like  venison ...  188 

to  force 188 

a  haunch  of,  to  dress...  188 

*0   SCeW   ■  a  •  a  ....»•.•.••    ...     1" 

neck  of 189 

shoulder  of,  to  roast ...  130 
called  hen  and 
cbickens ....  130 

en  epigram  ...  130 
to    boil   with 
oysters ......  131 

saddle  of,  to  roast......  131 

fillet  of,  braised 131 

with  cucumbers  131 

harrico  of .^. 131 

to  ragout .*. 138 

to  hash 138 

to  dress  the  Turkish  way  138 

breast  of,  to  dress 133 

to  collar 133 

to  grill  133 

V      loin  of,  to  roast  133 

torpU  134 

tostew 134 

collared,  to  roast  134 

ham  135 

collops' 135 

cutlets,  plain  broiled...  135 
chops,  dressed  Portu- 
guese fashion  ....;....  135 

in  disguise  137 

steaks,  to  broil  ....•...•  ]S5 
xo  i>y  »«•*  .....a  law 
to  stew  116 


INDEX. 


Mntton  steaks,  or  lamb  steaks, 

&  encumbers  136 
Main  tenon ......  1S7 

to  make  French  steaks 

of  a  neck  of. 187 

rumps  a-la-braise   1S7 

sausages     138 

mmps&kidneys  to  dress  138 
with  rice  138 

kebobbed 139 

N 

Nectar,  imperial 535 

Nectarines,  to  keep,  fresh  all  the 

year  449 

Noyeau,  French 531 

Nursery-maids,  directions  to 629 

O 

Oat  cakes 601 

Oil-cloths,  to  dean 618 

Oiled  batter 265 

Omelettes,  and  various  ways  of 

dressing  eggs  466 

common 466 

friars 467 

Onions,  stewed  371 

Orange  peel,  to  mix,  with  stuf- 
fing    295 

fool 443 

peels,  candied 457 

chips 457 

Orangeade,  or  lemonade 476 

Oranges,  to  keep,  for  puddings  454 

Orgeat 476 

Ortolans   220 

Ox-cheek,  stewed,  plain 66 

to  dress  another  way.    67 

feet,  or  cow  heels 67 

Oyster  catsup 305 

Oysters,  essence  of 301 

to  feed 187 

tofiry 188 

to  fncifssee 189 

to  ragout 189 

to  scollop 189 

to  stew 190 

loaves 190 

stewed,  in  French  rolls  191 

to  pickle 191 

another  way  191 
preserved^or  oyster  pow- 
der   268 

P 

Paint,  to  clean 617 

Panado,  made  in  ^ve  minntes  •«.  473 

chicken 474 

Pancakes. 361 

observations  on  351 

nee     ...••.•«.•.•.••..•••  sox 

Irish 352 

New  England 352 

pink  coloured 852 


Parsley  aad  better Page  265 

crisp.. 279 

tried  '.. 279 

Parsnips  ...... 367 

Partridges,  to  boil « 216 

to  roast  216 

to  stew  216 

to  pot  217 

Paste  for  meat,  or  savoury  pies  308 

puff,  for  patties 824 

for  boiled  puddings 829 

rich  puff 380 

a  less  rich , 881 

a  good,  for  large  pies 381 

for  tarts 881 

for  stringing  tartlets 381 

rich,  for  tarts 381 

for  custards...... 382 

raspberry 461 

currant « 462 

gooseberry 402 

For  chopped  hands 601 

Pastry  and  confectionary,  obser- 
vations on 377 

Pasty,  venison 815 

beef  or  mutton,  to  eat  as 

well  as  venison 315 

Patties,  savoury,  observations  on  307 

beef 826 

chicken  and  ham 325 

fried 325 

veal  and  ham  325 

lobster ,.  sae 

oyster $26 

resembling  mince  pies..  326 

sweet  326 

turkey  390 

Peafowl,  to  dress 220 

management  o€ 651 

Pea  powder 307 

Peaches,  to  keep  fresh  all  the 

year  449 

dried 45^ 

Pean,  stewed .., 44s 

baked 449 

Peas,  green 309 

to  stew 869 

to  stew,  a  mild  way  370 

Pepper,  Cayenne 289 

Peppermint 529 

„     ^      ,    <>roP»  441 

Perch  and  tench ]68 

to  boil 168 

to  fry...... 169 

to  pot    ..'. »...  170 

Perkin 542 

Perry    , 542 

Persons,  drowned,  of  533 

Pettitoes,  or  young  pig's  feet,  to 

dress ,.,.; ..  111 

Pewter,  patent,  to  cU&^** ^^^ 


iflasM 


tf*i 


fr« 


m0&5t. 


FbeuantSi  to  boil Page  914 

to  roast  « 216 

mock  ....;. 215 

to  stew  i.i 216 

Pickle  for  fasms^   toAj^es,   oi" 

beef,  that  will  keep  ror  years, 

-   If  boiled  and  skimmed  occa- 

aionaUv. 124 

Pickle  for  the  presenratiob  of 

pork,  tongues,  &c. ...  124 

PiekleSy  obsenratSons  en  481 

-      wataiats.... 482 

cucumbers  and  onions 

insHces 48S 

gherkins,  or  young  cu- 
cumbers     • •  48S 

beetroots 484 

French  beans,  nastorti* 

urns,  Sec 484 

red  cabbage 484 

small  onions 484 

cauHftmers,  or  brocoli  485 

lemons 485 

mushrooms  486 

potato  apples,  the  Swe- 
dish method 486 

barberries    486 

samphire  48f 

elder  buds    487 

elder  shoots 488 

artichokes 488 

artichoke  bottoms  488 

Indian  bamboo  imitated  488 

radish  pods 489 

toeloR  mioigoes 480 

beet  India 490 

Pietureo,- -irfd^  todean ,.  621 

Pie,  romp  steak .. 909 

beeftteak,  the  usual  way  300 

UNltiOD  .....v.- 80^ 

▼eal ^ SI* 

rioiiveal  SIO 

veal -and  parsley 310 

veal  and  ham  311 

▼ealolWe 311 

lamb 8U 

raised  lamb .' 311 

pork 312 

ham 3i2 

•      French S13 

oair»head  , ^   313 

ox  ch^ek- 314 

calf  feet  314 

aweetbread 315 

Dartmouth  .; 316 

sffoab....^^:: ••.; 316 

eel 316 

cod 317 

salmon  .^... 31f 

tnrbot ...'......;...- 317 

sole   ^ *.....«•  918 


Pie,  flottdder  Page  31§ 

carp  S18 

tench 319 

trout 519 

herring 319 

lobster  .319 

fine  fish. 820 

pilchard  and  leek  320 

chicken , ^.....  SiO 

pfaun  goose  321 

green  goose 331 

duck 321 

giblet    321 

pigeon  or  lark 328 

-  partridge 322 

bare 323 

rabbit  32$ 

▼egetaUe 323 

parsley 324 

turmp   824 

potato 324 

as  herb... 824 

i^ple 388 

ricn  gooseberry  388 

mince..  ..• 381 

another  way 3M 

lemon  mince     386 

-  egg  mince    386 

artidioke 386 

vermtcelK 387 

Pies^  patties,  savoury,  obaervt- 

tiolls  on ; 367 

raised a 368 

Pig,  socking,  to  scald 1<^ 

curious  method  of  roastiog  166 

tucking,  to  roast 169 

to  bake IW 

to  coUar. lt« 

Pigeon,  dressed,  to  dress IM 

Pigeons,  racouts  of  197 

to  dress... .;.. 268 

toboU  269 

toroast 269 

to  broil 269 

another  way 216 

to  stew 216 

in  a  hole  «» 

to  jug  211 

to  pot   «H 

Co  pickle «l» 

in  jelly «« 

a  beaotifttl  dish  212 

management  of ^^ 

Pig's  cheek,  to  prepare  for  boil- 

inr  i ^^ 

bead,  to  collar .*• 1'^ 

feet  and  ears,  to  dress HJ 

another  way  113 

IMcasseed...  H' 

jeBy  of H* 

harslet  1" 


•> 


II^DEX. 


671 


Pike,  to  boil  ; Page  172 

to  bake 172 

to  stew 173 

to  pot    173 

Pipers,  to  dress 175 

Pippins,  golden,  stewed 447 

Plaice,  to  stew  176 

to  boil..;. 176 

a  large,  to  dress   177 

Plate,  to  dean 022 

silver,  to  acotir,  and  take 

stains  out  of. 622 

powder C23 

Plovers,  to  dress....     2:20 

Plnms,  to  keep'ifreshall  the  year  449 

green  gage,  dried 456 

Poisons,  culinary,  observations  on  6.)3 

JPofliade,  divine  600 

Pomatum,  soft,  to  make  bard...  600 

Pop,  ginger..  ...-. 539 

Pork,  observations  on  103 

leg  of,  to  boil ;...  104 

another  way  104 

loin  and  neck  of 105 

collared  neck  of,  to  roast  105 
shonlclers  and  breasts  of .  106 

spring  or  forehand  of. 105 

chineof. 105 

spare-rib  105 

griskin-- 106 

blade  bone  of 106 

to  dress  as  lamb 106 

steaks  to  broil .106 

to  pickle 107 

Poller's  head,  to  roast    Ill 

Porridge,  milk  474 

French  milk 474 

Fort,  EngHsfa 618 

Posset,  ale   477 

pope's 477 

wine..-.. 477 

Postilla,  apple  446 

raspberry,    an'  elegant 
confertion,  made  in 

Russia  445 

Potpourri-  601 

Potato  starch    306 

Potatoes,  to  choose  and  keep  ...  358 

to  boil 850 

boiled  and  broiled  ...  369 

cold,  fried.'. 360 

to  steam   359 

fried  in  slices  or  shav- 
ings      360 

frtea  whole 360 

'  mashed 360 

with  onions...  861 

escaUoped    361 

to  roast 361 

roasted,  nnder  medt  361 

balls 362 

snow 362 

25  4  R 


Potatoes,  new,  to  dress  ...Page  362 

Poultry  and  game,  to  choose  ...     35 

directious  for  dressing  193 

ragouts  of i^ 

Prawlongs,  red  and  white   443 

pistacAio  and  filbert, 

red  and  white 444 

orange  and  lemon...  444 

Prawns,  currieof i^s 

to  batter  ig^ 

in  jelly igo 

to  stew 187 

to  pot    ,  ...  187 

Preserves,     peaches,    apricots, 
nectarines,   plums,    Morella 

cherries,  &c.  in  brandy 449 

wet  sugar,  preserved 

<»  fruits  in  brandy  .     449 

delicious  dried  pears 

of  Rlieims 449 

fine  wet   and   dried 
sweetoieats  in  the 

form  of  hops  461 

green  or  red  goose- 
berries, wet  451 

red  or  white  currants, 
whole  id  bunches, 

wet  or  dry  452 

strawberries..., 452 

green  gages  in  syrup.  453 

damsons 453 

Jarganel  pears  .....'  454 

Pudding,  beefsteak 329 

baked  ......  33O 

steak  or  kidney  339 

Wiitton 330 

beef,  or  mutton,  pota- 
to, baked 339 

calTs  foot ,....;,...  331 

York8hire,under  roast 
meat,   the  gipsies' 
way  331 

«y, 332 

*tat 332 

suet,,  or  dumpling  ...  333 

veal  suet 333 

batter,  with  meat  ...  338 

potato,  with  meat  ...  334 

P«as  334 

new  college 334 

delicious  orange 335 

orange,  another  way.  836 

excellent  lemon  835 

Dutchbaked    335 

Duteh  rice    .   335 

rice,  baked  or  boiled  336 

gr<>utidrice 336 

plain  rice ^37 

George 33T 

duke  of  BacV^uig^wm'ft  837 

Paticako  ^W 

fi»»^^W ^^* 


■( 


67d 


INDEX. 


PnddiDgy  macaroon  castard ftS8 

custard,  for  boiling  ...  3S8 

curious  noddy S30 

millet SSO 

gooseberry,  baked  ...  SS9 

delicate  muffin 840 

cottage,  potato  plum.  S40 . 
excellent  plain  potato  340 

save  aU S40 

batter,baked  or  boiled  341 

rich  plum 341 

good  family  plum 342 

apple,  boiled  342 

Boston  apple  342 

Nottingham 343 

bread 343 

more  expensiire  bread  343 

brown  bread 344 

little  bread  344 

in  haste...., 344 

almond 345 

baked 346 

small  almond  345 

sago  345 

bread  and  butter 845 

very  fine  amber  346 

oatmeal 346 

light  or  German 346 

Nelson 346 

Eve's 346 

quaking • 347 

transparent 347 

macaroni  347 

excellent  apricot 347 

green  bean  348 

shelford 1 348 

brandy 348 

buttermilk 348 

curd  348 

cord,  boiled 349 

pippin  340. 

quick  made 349 

welsh 349 

spring  fruit 350 

tansey  350 

herb : 850 

Puddings,  black,  or  hoes' 115 

French  hoE^  115 

white  hoffs^ 117 

bogs'  with  currants...  117 
almonds..    117 

observations  on  327 

Puffs,  light  or  German 840 

curd  348 

apple 380 

lemon 380 

sugar 889 

small,  of  preserved  fruit  389 

«ahnond 890 

chocolate  v. 390 

cufd  390 

excellent  lig^t 390 


Purrle   \ 

Q 

Qtiails,  to  dress •....  219 

R 

Rabbit,  dressed,  to  dress 196 

ragouts  of. 197 

to  roast 224 

to  boil  

to  fry 

to  fricassee,  white 

brown......  226 

to  pot 226 

to  blanch 226 

Rabbits,  management  of 652 

Ragont  powder  * 306 

Ratafia  drops  442 

French,  or  incomparable 

cordial  gin  532 

English  common,  and  red 

.  cherry  532 

Rats,  to  destroy 657 

Reeves,  to  roast 220 

Relish  for  chops 302 

Rennet,  to  prepare,  to  turn  die 

milk  610 

Rhubarb  cakes,  candied  459 

Ribbons,  to  clean  608 

Rice,  savoury 47O 

buttered.... 470 

milk  175 

Rolls,  French |98 

or  cakes,  famous  Bath....  496 

potato , 496 

Room,  best  way  to  clean  a  616 

Roses,  milk  of <9S 

Ruffs,  to  roast. ».. 211 

Raptures,  of....??. 58t 

Rusks    ..w 511 

*^   8 

Sack,  English'* 5I8 

Sago 475 

Salad  mixture S75 

boiled S76 

lobster  876 

substiti||e  for  oil  ui 876 

Salads,  observations  on 37s 

Salmon,  to  boil  154 

a  whole,  to  dress,  for 
a  large  company  ....  154 

fresh,  to  broil 154 

dried,  to  broil 155 

dried,  an  excellent  disk 

of 155 

to  bake 155 

to  pot   156 

tocoUar 156 

todiy    156 

TO  piCKIC    ...........•...•••  15l 

Aberdeen   method    of 

pickling  U7 

Salt 290 

basket  39i 


k 


INBBX. 


673 


Smndwiches Page  471 

tSarsenetSy  black  and  white,  to 

wash ../. 006 

Savaloys  lS8 

Savoys  » S68 

Saace^  delicate  white,  for  carp.  167 

apple 266 

mackerel  roe  •...* S66 

-     egg    •^...•. .866 

•  plam  pudding »• S66 

anchovy !...  266 

{garlic 267 
emon 267 

•    caper 267 

nock  caper 267 

oyster   268 

shrimp  269 

lobster  269 

for  lobster  270 

fiver  and  parsley 370 

lemon  and  liver  271 

fish 271 

liver,  for  fish  272 

celeiy,  pur6e,  for  boiled 
-torkey,  veal,  fowls.  Sec,  272 

green,  or  sorrel  •  272 

tomata,  or  love  apple 27S 

mocktomata 27S 

shalot  27S 

for  boiled  mutton...  273 

yoang  onion 273 

#nion 274 

white  onion 274 

brown  onion^or  onion  gravy  274 
Spanish, or  Portugal  onion  276 
sage  and  onion,  or  goose 

stuffing 276 

green  mint  276 

mushroom 276 

poor  man's   ^  276 

tor  boiled  tripe,calf  s  head, 

or  cow's  heel  277 

piquante  277 

German  horse-nedish 277 

a-la-ravigote    278 

a-la-poivrade   .^...  278 

a-ritaiienne 278 

chevrenil  .279 

rice  280 

wow  wow,  for  stewed,  or 

booiUi,  beef 281 

beef  gravy  ,or  brown  sauce, 
for  ra||[outs',  game,  poul- 
try, mh,  Sec 282 

oranse   gravy^    for   wild 

ducks,mgeons,tea1,&c.  283 
Robert,  for  steaks,  roast 
pork,  or  geese,  Sec,  ...  283 

Benton .'. 284 

turtle ^..^...  284 

wine,  for  venison,  oFbare  284 
sharp,  for  venison  ..*. 284 


Sittce,  sweet,  for  venison  or  hare  284 

old,  for  venison  286 

grill 286 

a-la-tarUre  286 

for  steaks,  or  chops,  &c...  286 
for  hashes  of  mutton,  or 

beef  286 

for  hashed  or  minced  veal  287 

white,  or  bechamel 287 

white,  a  more  economical 
method    of   making   a 

pint  of 288 

Sauces,  observations-  on  226 

Sausage^  107 

another  way....; 107 

to  eat  cold   .v v 107 

to  fry 108 

Bologna  108 

Oxford 108 

mutton  108 

veal   *....« 84 

Scarlet,  to  take  spots  out  of. 606 

Sea  kale    866 

Servants,  female,  general  obser- 
vations, adapted  to  699 

Sheep's  trotters,  to  dress 140 

Shrimps,to  butter 186 

to  stew 187 

to  pot 187 

Shrub,  as  made  in  the  West  In- 
dies     1 636 

excellent  brandy  and  rum  636 

currant 636 

Silk,  to  take  spots  out  of 604 

furniture,  to  clean  610 

SUks,  to  clean 604 

to  keep,  from  staining  in 

washing  404 

black,  to  wash 610 

Silver  and  gold,to  preserve,  from 

tarnishing. i......i ; 600 

Sippets,  fried  bread  ..« 279 

when  the  stomach  wiU 

not  receive  meat 473 

Skate 164 

crirap....««; 164 

Skin,  on  improving  and  beauti- 
fying the  669 

Smelts,  to  fry 177 

topiokle 177 

Snipes,  to  boil 918 

to  roast  919 

Snowballs 439 

a  dish  of 463 

Soap,  concerning    624 

Soles,  to  boil 176 

tofi^ « 175 

another  tray 176 

to  stew 176 

to  dress  ii^  ^^i?oTt»15^^*^ 

way  ,,^^         1^ 

Solomon's  templ^^'o'  •*  ioio*^**^ 


...  iMI 


674 


INDEX. 


Sorrel,  to  stew,  for  fncandean  & 

.  roast  meat 371 

Soup,  knuckle  of  veal,  or  shin, 

or  leg  of  beef 2S6 

clear  gravy 2S7 

Scotch,  or  winter  hotch 

potch 257 

an  excellent ,..    238 

white  238 

a  plainer  white 238 

maigre  Anglois,  or  broth 

without  meat  239 

Flemish 239 

carrot  239 

turnip 240 

^C3djr        •••••*«•••••■•«••••■■•••     ^*aV 

maigre,  or  vegetable  gravy  240 
vegetable,  anotiier  way...  241 

spinach 241 

Scotch  leek  242 

peas  242 

greei^peas  243 

without  meat.  244 

white  peas 244 

peas,  and  pickled  pork ...  244 

plain  peas 245 

asparagus 245 

onion 245 

white  onion 246 

milk  246 

with  onions 246 

rice 247 

vermicelli 247 

goose  or  duck  giblet 247 

partridge 248 

hare  or  ra|>bit 249 

game 249 

macaroni  , 249 

and  bouilli    250 

ox  head 250 

oxtail *  251 

ox  heel 252 

calf's  head    253 

Hessian,  and  ragout 253 

portable,  or  glaze  254 

eel , 255 

crayfish 256 

lobster 257 

oyster  257 

oyster  mouth    257 

Soups,  observations  on 226 

Souse  for  brawn,  pig's  heads,  &c.  115 

Spiders^  to  destroy......... 657 

Spinach.. v  363 

Splinters,  thorns,  .&c.  of 570 

^rats    ..  ,..,..•, 184 

Sprouts  Md  yooiig  greens    363 

Spruce  wee... 514 

wStairs,.  to  qaan 617 

to  keep  clean,  and  of  a     . 
V.         brownish  colour,  witliout 
\^     washing 618 

>  \- 


Stairs,  stone,  to  clean Page  (18 

Starch,  potato..  .^ 301 

best  method  of  makiag 

and  using 60 

Stee>f  to  take  mst  oat  of fiU 

i^tock,  c^ear  brown,  for  graty  or 

soup  ^ 

cheap  ham,  for  gravies  and 

sauces  3^ 

StockuigSy  silk,  to  dean eos 

cotton  and  thread,  to 

wash 60 

Strains,  of. '..».  ^ 

Stuffs,  to  clean  ^ 

to  take  spots  out  of. SOi 

Stuffing,  for  pike,  haddock,  and 

small  cod 171 

Portuguese,  for  baked 

soles 17^ 

for  veal,  roast  twkey, 

fowl,  dec »S 

ffoose,  or  dock ^ 

for  hajre *" 

Stuffings,  forcemeat  ^^ 

Sturgeon,  to  boil ^ 

to  roast ^.. ^ 

another  way  1^ 

to  broil .* ^ 

to  bake  ..y...»» ••  "^ 

to  pickle  ^ 

imitatioii  of  pickled..  1^ 
Substances  stopped  between  Uie 

mouth  and  stomach,   of  —•••  ^ 
Sugars  and  colours,  tliie  prepara- 
tion of  ,.» • 

Suppers , J51 

Sweetbreads  * 

to  roaAt ^ 

ragout ' 

Syllabub,  common ^ 

royal  London  •••  ^ 

Staffordshire    ^ 

Devonshire  ...; ^ 

fine  whisked  or  whipped  4M 

everlasting  whipped ..  ^^ 

Spanish •«? 

lemon  •** 

Syrup  of  lemons ^ 

orange,  for  punch  or 

puddings ^ 

orange,  or  lemon  pee)  iS^ 

Tables,  to  keep,  clean,  and  of 

a   brownish    cohKir, 

withontwasbmg.**^*  ^^ 

to  clean ^^ 

large,  to  take  spots  oat 

of J2 

mahogany,  to  polisb  ..  ^ 

Tapistry,  faded,  to  clean J^ 

Tart,  apple,  creamed  ^ 

ripe  fruit  '^ 


4 


.  i 


