>  m 


•ss<  o> : ::<*>  :•:♦>;: ' <s» : >»> '      <❖>  •:❖>  <♦>  x*>  ♦:♦>  -a*  *<♦>.;     .  <♦>  <♦> /, 


.Anson  Count?  (Took  !ftook 


SELECTED  RECIPES 
PROVEN  MERIT 


SPONSORED  BY 


THE  LADIES  AID  SOCIETY 


OF 


FIRST  BAPTIST  CHURCH 


WADESBORO,  N.  C. 


DEDICATED 


To  The 


Efficient  Homemakers 


Of 


Anson  County 


1  I 
%  \ 


FOREWORD 


We  cake  pleasure  in  offering  to  the  public  the  Anson 
County  Cook  Book.  These  recipes  are  not  original,  but 
have  been  tried  and  tested  by  women  of  our  community 
so  well  known  that  their  signatures  insure  the  excellence 
of  their  recipes. 

Everybody  eats,  and  everybody  should  enjoy  eating, 
but  not  everybody  knows  how  to  prepare  the  viands  of 
the  dailv  menu  so  as  to  insure  perfection  of  that  enjoy- 
ment, and — "The  happiness  of  man — the  hungry  sinner 
since  Eve  ate  the  apple,  much  depends  on  dinner."  A 
public  benefactor,  then,  is  that  one  who  shall  provide 
for  you  a  helpful  manual  on  cookery. 

We  trust,  therefore,  that  this  book  will  appeal  to  the 
public;  may  it  prove  the  young  wife's  refuge  in  times  of 
stress  and  perplexity,  and  to  the  experienced  home- 
keeper,  a  reminder  of  her  past  achievements.  We  wish 
to  thank  all  who  so  kindly  aided  by  contributing  recipes, 
and  we  recommend  to  you  the  advertisers  whose  interest 
and  support  made  this  book  possible. 

Very  truly  yours, 

Mrs.  T.  L.  Caudle,  Chairman 

Mrs.  Shelley  Rose 

Mrs.  E.  A.  Allen 

Mrs.  H.  B.  Covington 


REBECCA 
WASHINGTON 

The  range  with  the  Wonderful  Oven. 

BUILT  FOR  YOUR  KITCHEN, 

The  Rebecca  Washington  Range 
will  begin  paying  for  itself  the  day 
L  is  installed  in  your  kitchen.  No 
o.hc-r  range  is  quice  as  economical  in 
iu  ^1  consumption. 

In  the  Rebecca  Washington  Range 
you  will  find  included  all  the  features  that  make  for  convenience  in 
cooking,  combined  with  beauty  in  design.  It  is  modern  in  every  detail 
and  is  built  for  convenient  cooking. 


BETTY  WASHINGTON 

Th3  Range  with  the  Triporfe  Damper. 
BUILT  FOR  YOUR  KITCHEN. 


The  Betty  Washington  Range  is  a  small ir 
size  companion  range  to  the  Rebecca,  and 
is  designed  particularly  for  those  homes 
where  a  range  as  large  as  the  Rebecca  is 
mt  needed. 

7n  th^  Betty  Washington  Range  we  have 
included  all  the  features  of  the  Rebecca,  excepting  the  size. 

Manufactured  by 

GRAY  &  DUDLEY  COMPANY 

Established  1862 
NASHVILLE,  TENN. 

Sold  by 

ROSE-GATHINGS  COMPANY 

WADESBORO,  N.  C. 


Oable  of  Contents 


Page 

Soups   3 

Fish  and  Oysters  __________________________  11 

Meats  and  Croquettes   23 

Sauces  for  Meats  and  Fish  ________  ______  31 

Poultry   35 

Eggs  and  Cheese   43 

Vegetables   49 

Breads  -   59 

Salads  and  Salad  Dressings   71 

Sandwiches   84 

Pies   87 

Puddings   93 

Ices  and  Frozen  Creams   99 

Cakes   103 

Small  Cakes   112 

Icings  and  Fillings   116 

Candy   118 

Pickles   121 

Preserves   126 

Beverages   128 


MILK  FROM  HOLSTEIN  COWS  For  the  Baby. 
MILK  FROM  JERSEY  COWS  For  the  Family 

All  cows  tested  tubercular  free 
H.   H.  LEE 

SUNNY  SIDE  DAIRIES 

Phone  935-A 

m.'mm/^m::mm:m^  m  ^:'-^m::m^m^:^^'mm'mm:mm:mm'm^. 
am  mm  mm  mm  mm  s«  mm  mm  sane  mm  :c*c  mm.  'mm-  'mm.  'mm.  m& 

BANK  OF  L1LESVILLE 

LILESVILLE,  N.  C. 

It  is  dangerous  to  carry  money  on  your 
person. 

Deposit  your  money  with  us  and  carry  a 
check  book. 

We  pay  Interest  on  Time  Deposits. 


We  especially  want  the  accounts  of  Farmers. 

We  want  an  account  from  every  farmer  in  and 
around  Lilesville.  Our  interests  are  the  same. 

THANK  YOU! 

m  <♦>  ss-  as  m  m  m  m  m  m  m  m  wmmt  tmmm 

FLOWERS  FOR  ALL  OCCASIONS  ' 

Wedding  Flowers  a  Specialty 
HAMLET  FLORAL  CO. 

126  Hamlet  Ave.  Phone  183 

Hamlet,  N.  C. 


FOR  SHORTENING,  FRYING,  SALAD  DRESSING   USE  WESSON  OIL 


Soups 

CLEAR  TOMATO  SOUP 

1  quart  canned  tomatoes  1  teaspoon  celery  salt 

1  slice  onicn  2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter 

1  bay  leaf  Salt  and  cayenne  to  taste 

Add  ingredients  to  1  pint  water,  bring  to  a  boil,  press  through  a  sieve, 
return  to  fire,  add  2  teaspoons  corn  starch  moistened  in  cold  water.  Cook 
until  transparent. — Mrs.  T.  L.  Caudle. 

CELERY  SOUP 

1  cup  celery  (chopped)  1  pt.  milk 

3  cups  chicken  stock  1  tablespoon  flour 

%  cup  water 

Cook  stock  and  celery,  thicken  with  flour  and  water.  Heat  milk  and  pour 
into  above  mixture.  Put  butter,  pepper,  and  salt  in  bowl  and  strain  soup 
over  this. — Mrs.  L.  J.  Huntley. 

SOUP  SUPREME 

Stock  of  one  hen,  skimming  grease  from  top.  Breast  of  chicken  cut  fine. 
One  cup  almonds  ground  and  added.    Lastly,  one  cup  cream.  (Tested.) 

PEA  PUREE 

1  quart  milk  3  tablespoons  Melrose  flour 

3  tablespoons  butter  1  cup  peas 

Melt  butter,  add  flour,  mix  to  smooth  paste.  Add  milk  slowly  and  let  come 
to  boiling  point.  Add  peas,  which  have  been  put  through  colander.  Season 
with  salt  and  pepper  and  serve  with  croutons. — Mrs.  H.  B.  Covington. 

MOCK  BISQUE  SOUP 

Stew  a  can  of  tomatoes  and  strain:  add  pinch  of  soda  to  remove  acidity; 
in  another  pan  boil  3  pints  milk,  thickened  with  a  tablespoon  cornstarch  or 
flour  previously  mixed  with  a  little  cold  milk.  Add  a  lump  of  butter  the  size 
of  an  egg.  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste;  mix  with  tomatoes;  let  all  come  to  a 
boil  and  serve. — Mrs.  A.  D.  Griffin. 

BOUILLON 

To  three  lbs.  raw  beef,  chopped  fine,  add  3  quarts  cold  water.  Let  barely 
warm  for  first  hour.  Then  increase  heat  and  gently  simmer  for  six  hours. 
Turn  into  earthen  vessel,  salt  to  taste,  and  let  cool.  Then  skim  off  all  fat, 
squeeze  meat  hard  as  you  remove  it  from  liquor.  Return  liquid  to  fire,  boil 
a  few  minutes  and  strain.  Should  be  a  clear  amber  color.  Serve  hot  in 
cups. — Mamie  Ingram  Pate. 


THE  NATIONAL 
HOTEL 

Remodeled  and  Newly  Painted. 
Steam  Heat,  Hot  and  Cold  Water. 


HOME  COOKING 


Private  and  Connecting  Baths 
American  and  European  Plan. 

The  Best  Dinner  on  Highway  No.  20. 


WADESBORO,  N.  C 


FOR  SHORTENING,  FRYING,  SALAD  DRESSING  USE  WESSON  OIL 


potato  sour 


4  potatoes  1  pint  milk 

1  tablespoon  butter  1  tablespoon  flour 

1  teaspoon  chopped  onion  2  egg  yolks 

Cook  butter,  flour,  and  onion;  stir  into  this  mixture  one  pint  of  hot  milk, 
add  the  whole  of  4  potatoes  (white  or  sweet),  which  have  been  boiled  and 
mashed.  Rub  all  through  a  strainer.  After  seasoning  to  taste  with  salt  and 
pepper,  put  over  fire  again.  More  hot  milk  or  water  may  be  added  to  thin 
if  necessary.  Immediately  before  serving  stir  in  beaten  yolks  of  two 
eggs. — Mrs.  Paul  Overton. 

LOUISIANA  GUMBO  (SOUP) 


1  chicken  4  pieces  celery 

1  qt.  okra  2  cans  tomatoes  (small  size) 

1  onion  1  medium  size  slice  ham,  raw 

Cut  chicken  as  for  frying,  sear  in  butter  and  lard  mixed,  about  1  tablespoon 
of  each.    Chop  okra  and  fry  with  the  celery  and  onion.    Fry  ham,  cut  in 
^mall  pieces.    Mix  all  of  the  above,  add  3  qts.  boiling  water  and  cook  slowly 
3  Ms  hours.  (Tested.) 


CREAM  OF  CORN  SOUP 


1  can  corn  XA  teaspoon  celery  salt 

2  cups  boiling  water  V2  teaspoon  onion  juice 

1  teaspoon  salt  2V2  tablespoons  cornstarch 

2  cups  milk  1  cup  whipped  cream. 

Rub  corn  through  sieve  into  saucepan.  Add  water,  salt  celery  salt, 
and  white  pepper  to  taste.  Blend  together  cornstarch  and  butter,  gradually 
add  milk  and  cook  all  ingredients  in  pan  for  5  minutes,  stirring  constantly. 
Add  whipped  cream  just  before  serving. — Mrs.  B.  F.  Bray. 


VEGETABLE  SOUP 

3  pts.  beef  stock  1  medium  size  onion 

3  cups  finely  chopped  cabbage  1  cup  butter  beans 

3  cups  finely  chopped  celery  1  can  corn 

3  cups  finely  chopped  carrots  2  tablespoons  Melrose  flour 

Put  stock  on  and  let  get  thoroughly  heated.  Add  to  this  cabbage.  Lei 
this  cook  several  minutes,  then  add  vegetables.  When  these  are  tender 
thicken  and  take  off  stove. — Miss  Bessie  Plunkett. 


9 


L.  I).  ROBINSON  R.  S.  PRUETTE 

I  .  L.  CAUDLE  T.  L.  CAUDLE,  JR. 

ROBINSON,  CAUDLE  &  PRUETTE 

Attorneys  at  Law 

Wadesboro,  N.  C. 

Phone  51 


makes  Milk  into 

Delicious  Desserts 

which  ^re  health-building  and  enjoyed  by  the  whole  family. 
Junket  is  sold  in  two  forms.  Junket  in  powder  form  is  sweetened 
and  flavored.  Junket  tablets  ar3  unflavored  and  unsweetened. 

Ask  your  grocer  for  Flavored  Junket — in  case  he  has  none  in 
stock,  write  to  us  sending  his  name  and  address  and  we  will  be 
glad  to  send  you  one  of  our  delightful  Junket  Recips  Books  free. 


"The  Junket  Folks,' '  Little  Falls,  N.  Y. 

6  Tempting  Flavors 

Vanilla  Chocolate  Lemon 

Orange  Raspberry  Coffee 

Takes  but  one  minute  to  make! 


THE  FINISHING  TOUCH 

Put  the  finishing  touches  on  your  recipes  by  using  on 
Silverware,  China  and  Cut  Glass. 

W.  C.  MANGUM.  J  EWELER 


FOR  SHORTENING,  FRYING,  SALAD  DRESSING  USE  WESSON  OIL 


jFisl)  an6  Outers 

ESCALLOPPED  OYSTERS 

Rinse  in  ice-cold  water  a  qt.  of  oysters.  Cover  bottom  of  deep  pan  with 
cracker  crumbs,  then  layer  of  oysters,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper.  Slice 
butter  and  cover  them.  Continue  alternate  layers  of  crackers  and  oysters 
with  a  generous  supply  of  butter,  until  pan  is  two  thirds  full.  Crackers  last 
with  butter.  Fill  pan  nearly  full  of  sweet  milk  and  bake  in  moderate  hot 
oven  for  35  or  40  minutes.    Serve  while  hot. — Mrs.  Hattie  Covington. 

PANNED  OYSTERS 

Put  2  tablespoons  of  butter  into  a  very  hot  baking  pan,  then  put  in  well 
drained  oysters  and  cook  in  oven  until  brown.  Have  toast  ready  and  soften 
with  liquor  from  pan,  place  three  or  four  oysters  on  each  piece  of  toast. 
Sprinkle  with  parsley  chopped  fine. — Mrs.  T.  L.  Caudle. 

PIGS  IN  BLANKET 

Season  large  oysters  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  fasten  around  each  one  a 
strip  of  breakfast  bacon.  Skewer  with  tooth  pick,  cook  in  hot  blazer  until 
bacon  is  crisp.   Garnish  with  sliced  lemon  and  parsley. — Mrs.  H.  B.  Covington. 

OYSTER  SOUP 

1  pint  oysters  1  tablespoon  Melrose  flour 

1  qt.  milk  Butter  size  of  an  egg. 

Bring  milk  to  boiling  point,  add  oysters,  cook  until  they  curl,  and  lastly, 
add  previously  blended  flour,  butter,  salt,  red  and  black  pepper  to  taste. 
Little  chopped  celery  is  an  improvement. — Shelley  Horne  Rose. 

FRIED  OYSTERS 

Wash  and  drain  oysters.  Roll  each  in  cracker  crumbs,  then  in  egg 
seasoned  with  pepper  and  salt.  Then  again  in  crumbs.  Place  them  in  a 
wire  basket  and  immerse  in  smoking  fat.  When  they  are  light  amber  color 
drain  and  serve  immediately.    Garnish  with  parsley. 

Oyster  Cocktail  Sauce 

One-third  cup  tomato  catsup  1  tablespoon  Worchestershire  sauce 

3  drops  tabasco  sauce  1  tablespoon  lemon  juice 

1  tablespoon  horesradish  1  tablespoon  chopped  celery 

Salt  to  taste. 

— Miss  Elizabeth  Hor«" 


11 


& |  WHOLE  "I) 


Delicious 
Dishes 

I    ....  easily 
made, 


Shredded  Wheal  Dishes 


M 


ANY  dainty,  wholesome,  appetizing  dishes  can  be  quickly 
prepared  with  Shredded  Wheat  Biscuit.  Patty  shells,  for 
example,  can  be  quickly  and  easily  made  with  Shredded  Wheat 
Biscuits  without  wasting  a  shred.  Simply  crush  in  the  top  of  a 
Biscuit  with  the  bowl  of  a  spoon,  fill  the  patty  shell  or  basket  with 
berries,  sliced  bananas,  or  other  fruits,  or  with  creamed  vegetables 
or  creamed  meats.  Eaten  as  a  breakfast  food  with  milk  or  cream 
it  is  deliciously  nourishing  and  satisfying. 

Send  for  our  new  booklet  which  tells  you  how 
to  make  many  delicious  Shredded  Wheat  dishes. 


THE  SHREDDED  WHEAT  COMPANY,  NIAGARA  FALLS,  N.  Y. 
Oakland,  Cal.    Niagara  Falls,  Canada   Welwyn  Garden  City,  Eng. 


FOR  SHORTENING,  FRYING,  SALAD  DRESSING  USE  WESSON  OIL 


OYSTER  COCKTAILS 

Select  fine  oysters.  Pick  and  wash.  Cut  grape  fruit  halves,  remove  pulp 
and  fill  with  crushed  ice.  In  the  center  place  half  a  lemon  with  pulp  removed 
and  fill  with  the  following;  dressing: 

1  tablespoon  tomato  catsup  1  teaspoon  lemon  juice 

1  teaspoon  Worcestershire  sauce         5  drops  tabasco  sauce. 

Place  oysters  on  ice  around  sauce.  — Mrs.  H.  B.  Covington. 


ROASTED  OYSTERS 

Wash  shells  well  with  brush  in  cold  water  and  place  in  pan  with  deep  half 
of  shell  down.  Put  in  hot  oven  and  bake  until  shell  opens.  Remove  top  shell 
so  as  not  to  lose  liquor.  Arrange  on  plates  and  put  a  little  melted  butter  with 
pepper,  salt  and  lemon  juice  on  each  one.  If  roasted  too  long  oysters  will  be 
tough. — Mrs.  R.  S.  Pruette. 

CREAMED  OYSTERS 

1  dcz.  oysters  1  tablespoon  Melrose  flour 

1  tablsspoon  butter  1  cup  milk  or  cream 

Yolks  2  eggs  Salt,  cayenne 

Scald  1  dozen  oysters  in  their  liquor  and  drain.  Melt  1  tablespoon  butter 
in  a  sauce  pan,  add  1  tablespoon  Melrose  flour  and  cook  but  not  brown;  then 
add  1  cup  of  milk  or  cream  and  stir  until  smooth.  Season  with  salt  and 
cayenne  pepper  and  remove  frcm  fire.  When  cooled  add  beaten  yolks  of  2 
eggs,  stirring  vigorously;  place  again  on  fire  and  stir  until  thickened,  then 
add  oysters.  Serve  immediately.  This  mixture  should  be  highly  seasoned, 
V2  oysters  and  V2  mushrooms  can  be  used. — Mrs.  R.  L.  Hamilton,  Oxford,  N.  C. 

PICKLED  OYSTERS 

Select  large  oysters,  scald  and  rinse  them,  and  cover  with  boiling  salted 
water.    Measure  liquor  left  from  oysters,  and  to  every  pint  add: 
1  quart  vinegar  1  tablespoon  black  pepper 

1  tablespoon  cloves  1    teaspoon  mace 

Heat  liquor,  vinegar  and  spices  to  boiling  point.  Add  oystetrs,  allow  to 
boil  several  minutes,    Serve  ice  cold. — Mrs.  H.  B.  Covington. 

SHREDDED  WHEAT  OYSTER,  MEAT  OR  VEGETABLE  PATTIES 

Cut  oblong  cavity  in  top  of  biscuit,  remove  top  carefully  and  remove  all 
inside  shreds,  forming  a  shell.  Spinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  put  small 
pieces  of  butter  in  bottom,  and  fill  with  drained,  pickled  and  washed  oysters. 
Replace  top  of  biscuit  over  oysters,  then  bits  of  butter  on  top.  Place  in 
covered  pan  and  bake  in  moderate  oven.  Pour  oyster  liquor  or  cream  over 
it.    Shell  fish,  vegetables,  or  meats  may  also  be  used. 


13 


J.  H.  BENNETT,  M.  D. 

32  E.  Wade  St. 

Wadesboro,  N.  C. 

Office  Phone  50  Res.  Phone  146 


BETTER  MEATS 
FOR  LESS. 


WHITE'S  MARKET 

Wadesboro,  N.  C. 

PHONE  233-J 
:♦>  <♦>  <♦>  <♦>  •:♦>•  «fw«o».*w«88"®'  <«•  mm. 

QUALITY  — QUALITY 

From  Start  to  Finish. 

The  Best  in  Spices  and  Extracts. 

That's  What  You  Always  Get  Here. 

FOX  &  LYON  DRUG  STORE 

PI  [ONE  81  WADESBORO,  N.  C. 

mmmmmmmmmm  <m.  m  m  m  m  «  mmmm^mmm 

COME  TO 

HEADQUARTERS 

Shelf  and  heavy  hardware.  "Duco"  house  and  imple- 
ment paints  and  oils.  McCormick-Deering  machinery 
and  farm  implements.  Building  material  and  Geo.  E. 
Xissen  wagons. 

ALLEN  HARDWARE  CO. 

Phone  28 


FOR  SHORTENING,  FRYING,  SALAD  DRESSING  USE  WESSON  OIL 


BAKED  SPANISH  MACKEREL 

2  fish  (weighing  about  2  lbs.  each)      Butter,  size  of  an  egg 

2  thin  strips  bacon  Red  pepper. 

Remove  head  and  fins  from  fish.  Salt  to  taste.  Place  in  pan,  lay  bacon 
on  fish.  Add  about  1  cup  boiling-  water,  butter  and  pepper.  Bake  until 
done. — Mrs.  J.  A.  Leak. 

BAKED  FISH  NO.  1 

Prepare  fish  and  lay  in  a  greased  baking  pan  on  a  thin  wire  rack  (this  is 
to  remove  fish  without  breaking  when  done)  sprinkle  salt,  pepper,  and  flour 
over  the  fish,  add  1  tablespoon  minced  onion,  four  tablespoons  catchup, 
three  or  four  slices  of  lemon,  or  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  three  tablespoons 
liquor  that  forms  in  bottom  of  pan,  frequently,  adding  more  water  if 
necessary.  Remove  fish  to  hot  platter,  pour  the  liquor  over  and  garnish 
with  parsley. — Mrs.  Rosalind  A.  Redfearn. 

PLANKED  SHAD 

3  pound  shad  Salt  and  pepper  Butter 

Dress  shad  and  lay  skin  side  down  on  a  buttered  oak  plank,  one  inch  thick 
and  a  little  longer  and  wider  than  the  fish.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper 
and  brush  over  with  melted  butter.  Bake  25  minutes  in  hot  oven.  Remove 
from  oven  and  spread  with  butter.  Garnish  with  parsley  and  lemon.  Send 
to  table  on  plank. — Mrs.  K.  M.  Hardison. 

BAKED  SHAD 

Wash  and  wipe  a  large  shad.  Make  a  stuffing  of  fine  bread  crumbs  mixed 
with  melted  butter,  a  little  minced  onion.  Pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Fill 
the  fish  with  this  and  sew  it  up.  Lay  in  a  baking  pan  and  pour  over  it  a 
cupful  of  salted  boiling  water  in  which  two  tablespoons  butter  have  been 
melted.  Sprinkle  the  fish  with  flour  and  bake  in  a  steady  oven.  Baste  with 
the  drippings  every  ten  minutes.  At  the  end  of  three-quarters  of  an  hour 
try  the  fish  with  a  fork  to  see  if  it  is  done.  It  should  be  very  tender. 
Transfer  carefully  to  a  hot  platter,  cut  and  remove  the  strings.  Keep  the 
fish,  hot  while  you  make  the  sauce.  Set  on  top  of  range  the  pan  in  which 
fish  has  been  baked.  Thicken  the  fish  drippings  with  two  tablespoonfuls 
browned  flour  moistened  with  cold  wrater.  Stir  until  smooth,  then  add  a 
cupful  of  boiling  water,  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  a  tablespoonful  of  good  table 
sauce,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  good  kitchen  bouquet.  Unless  the  sauce  is 
perfectly  smooth,  strain  through  a  wire  sieve.  Pour  into  a  heated  gravy- 
boat.— Mrs.  Ben  R.  Wall. 


15 


1 


ROYAL 
CLEANERS 

J.  C.  Brittingham,  Owner 


HAMLET,  N.  C. 

Phone  200  i 

i 


i  = 


I 


BRANCH  PLANTS 

Wadesboro,  N.  C,  Phone  395 

Rockingham,  N.  C,  Phone  300 

Laurinburg,  N.  C,  Phone  2 1 4 


ASK  FOR  AND  USE  MELROSE  FLOUR 


FISH  CUTLETS 


Two  lbs.  red  snappers  boiled  in  cleai  salt  water  until  tender.  When  cold, 
pick  from  water  and  wash  thoroughly.  To  this  add  a  cream  sauce  made  of 
one  tablespoon  butter,  three  tablespoons  flour,  and  one  cup  sweet  milk. 
Season  with  salt  and  cayenne  pepper  If  this  is  too  stiff,  a  little  more  milk 
may  be  added,  to  make  the  right  consistency  to  shape  into  cutlets  with  the 
hands.  After  these  are  chilled,  roll  in  egg  and  bread  crumbs  and  fry  in  deep 
fat.  Sauce 

Use  regular  Wesson  oil  mayonnaise,  to  which  chopped  onions,  capers  and 
olives  have  been  added.    Serves  12  people. — Mrs.  J.  D.  Leak. 

FISH  CUSTARD 

V2  lb.  Haddock  1  egg 

1  dessert  spoon  flour — Melrose  1  teacup  milk 

1  teaspoonful  butter  Pepper  and  salt  to  taste. 

Cut  fish  into  pieces  and  place  in  baking  dish,  sprinkle  with  pepper  and 
salt.  Mix  flour,  milk,  egg  well  beaten  and  melted  butter,  pour  this  mixture 
over  fish.    Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  35  minutes. — Mrs.  J.  F.  Hamaker. 


SALMON  CROQUETTES  WITH  TOMATO  SAUCE 

1  can  of  pink  salmon  Tomato  sauce 

3  thick  slices  of  bread  1  can  of  tomato  soup 

3  tablespoonfuls  of  Melrose  flour  1  tablespoonful  of  Fugar 

Salt,  pepper,  dash  of  celery  salt  V±  teaspoonful  of  ground  cloves 

Take  out  bones  and  skin  and  a  bit  of  juice  from  the  salmon.  Crumble  the 
bread  very  fine,  add  seasoning  and  mix  thoroughly.  Add  flour,  and  form 
into  small  round  or  oblong  croquettes.  Put  enough  fat  into  an  iron  frying 
pan  to  cover  the  bottom  well,  let  it  get  very  hot,  then  fry  the  croquettes, 
turning  them  several  times  until  evenly  browned.  If  they  are  cooked  quickly 
they  will  not  be  at  all  greasy. 

For  the  tomato  sauce,  do  not  dilute  the  soup  but  add  the  sugar  and  cloves, 
heat  together  and  serve  over  the  croquettes. — Mrs.  Rosalind  A.  Redfearn. 

SALMON  LOAF 


1  can  salmon  4  eggs 

4  tablespoons  butter  1  teaspoon  prepared  mustard 

1  cup  bread  crumbs  1  teaspoon  salt 

V2  teaspoon  pepper  2  teaspoons  chopped  parsley 

Chop  salmon,  add  melted  butter,  bread  crumbs,  well  beaten  eggs,  and 
seasonings.  Pour  into  greased  molds  and  steam  1  hour.  Turn  out  on  platter, 
garnish  with  vermicelli,  if  desired,  and  serve  with  white  sauce.  Servings,  six. 
Serve  with  white  sauce. — JWrs.  N.  E.  Hughes,  Peachland,  N.  C. 


17 


Inside  a  steel  casing  behind  the  coils, 
there  is  sealed  every  bit  of  mechanism  of 
this  remarkable  refrigerator.  You  never 
see  it  —  never  have  to  oil  it.  Automati- 
cally, quietly,  it  manufactures  your  ice  and 
gives  you  perfect  refrigeration. 

Designed,  built  and  guaranteed 
by  General  Electric  Company. 

F.  A.  LITTLE 

WADES BORO,  N.  C. 


ASK  FOR  AND  USE  MELROSE  FLOUR 


SALMON  MOLD 


3  eggs 

2  tablespoons  butter 
1  can  salmon 


V2  cup  bread  crumbs 

Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

2  tablespoons  Worcestershire  sauce 


Remove  skin,  bones  and  oil  from  fish  and  rub  to  a  paste.  Add  egg.s, 
crumbs,  sauce,  salt,  pepper  and  butter.  Mix  well,  place  in  buttered  mold, 
cover  and  steam  one  hour,  or  bake  in  casserole  30  minutes.  Serve  with 
egg  sauce. 

egg  sauce.  Egg  Sauce 

V2  teaspoon  Worcestershire  sauce        1  tablespoon  butter 
1  tablespoon  flour  1  cup  milk 

1  egg  Salt,  pepper  and  chopped  parsley 

Melt  butter,  add  flour  and  stir  2  minutes  over  fire.    Add  milk,  boil 

3  minutes,  stirring  often.    Add  beaten  egg  and  seasoning  to  taste.  Pour 

over  salmon  mold. — Mrs.  R.  B.  Hardison. 


SALMON  CROQUETTES 


1  large  can  salmon  2  heaping  tablespoons  flour 

1<?  teacup  cream  of  whole  milk  1  teaspoon  chopped  parsley 

Juice  of  1  lemon  1  heaping  teaspoon  butter 

1  heaping  teaspoon  butter 

Mix  cream,  flcur  and  butter  and  boil  to  a  thick  paste.  Add  to  salmon; 
make  into  croquettes,  roll  in  egg  and  bread  crumbs  and  fry  in  deep  fat  to  a 
delicate  brown. — Mrs.  E.  A.  Allen. 


LOBSTER  NEWBURG 


2  cups  of  lobster  (diced)  3  egg  yolks 

1  cup  cream  6  tablespoons  sherry 

V\  teaspoon  salt  Pepper  to  taste 

Cook  lobster  a  few  minutes  in  butter.  Add  salt,  pepper  and  sherry. 
Remove  from  fire  and  add  egg  yolks  beaten  with  cream.  Stir  carefully 
over  fire  until  free  from  the  raw  egg.    Serve  on  toast  or  with  saltines. 

— Mrs.  H.  B.  Covington. 


LOBSTER  CHOPS 

1  can  lobster,  cut  fine,  season  with  pepper  and  salt.  Put  1  pint  cream 
or  very  rich  milk  on  fire.  When  hot,  stir  in  yolk  of  two  well-beaten  eggs. 
Add  butter  size  of  an  egg  and  1  heaping  teaspoonful  flour,  first  stirred 
smooth  in  a  little  milk.  Cook  until  creamy.  Stir  in  lobster,  remove  from 
fire,  and,  when  cold,  form  into  chops,  dip  in  egg  and  cracker  dust  and  fry  in 
butter.    Serve  with  mayonnaise,  with  a  little  caper  sauce  added. 

— Mrs.  Geo.  Scott,  \  a. 


19 


*  J.  T.  SAUNDERS    &    CO.  g 

$                        Lilesville,  N.  C.  I 

$  STAPLE  AND  FANCY  GROCERIES 

^       COUNTRY  PRODUCE  BOUGHT  AND  SOLD.  ^ 

We  give  your  more  cash  for  your  stuff  and  more  stuff 

$                                     for  your  cash.  || 

i  * 

*  $ 

|      H.  H.  McLendon                      B.  M.  Covington  ^ 

|            McLENDON  &  COVINGTON  § 

$               Attorneys  and  Counsellors  at  Law  § 

Covington  Building  C 

I  Wadesboro,  N.  C. 

I                                       Phone  61  $ 

i  * 

I        UP-TO  DATE  PLUMBING  | 

Heating  &  Repairing.  | 

ANSON  PLUMBING  AND  HEATING  I 

|                        COMPANY  $ 

i                        Wadesboro,  N.  C.  I 

$                             Phone  1 56  | 

.^^»  ,'A,>.  VMV  VSiK  ''-MIR' ■  ■'iW %«KS  *JBK* W/'<J!IKi''  'Wtf^msl! 

»*     v^»*    W  v^»'    \^»*    \*»*    %*<*    \3V    *^,«  %^  \SV 


§      others  know  our  service  I 

I  DO  YOU? 

GASOLINE  —  OIL  —  TIRES  —  ACCESSORIES 

|  -  TEXACO  PRODUCTS  —  | 

|    CENTRAL  SERVICE  STATION  I 

%  WADESBORO  I 


ASK  FOR  AND  USE  MELROSE  FLOUR 


CATFISH  STEW 
(To  Serve  25  Persons) 

3  lbs.  dressed  catfish  1  lb.  onions 

2  large  cans  tomatoes  1  lb.  butter 

1,  14-oz.  bottle,  catsup  1  gal.  water 

%  bottle  Worcestershire  sauce  2  boxes  crackers,  crushed 

Erippings  from  1  lb.  fat  bacon  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

Cook  chopped  onion  in  water  until  tender.  Add  bacon  fat,  tomatoes  and 
ether  ingredients,  then  add  fish  and  cook  for  30  minutes.  Lastly  add 
crackers  and  serve  hot. — McLean  B.  Loath,  Rockingham,  N.  C,  May  1928. 


21 


EVERY  40  SECONDS— 

of  every  working  day  somebody  buys  a  Buick  —  Year 
after  year  it  wins  twice  as  many  buyers  as  any  other 
fine  car. 


J5uy  your  Buick  with  the  knowledge  that  the  overwhelming 

majority  of  America's  fine  car  buyers  are  making  the  same  wise 

selection  and  enjoying  the  same  wonderful  satisfaction. 

This  most  brilliant  of  fine  cars  enjoys  two-to-one  leadership  in 

its  field  and  has  maintained  its  leadership,  not  for  a  week  or  a 

month,  but   year  in   and   year  out   since  the  early  days  of  the 

industry. 

The  minute  you  sec  Buick  you'll  know  one  reason  for  its  popular- 
ity— it  excels  in  beauty.  The  minute  you  drive  it  you'll  discover 
a  further  reason — it  excels  in  vihrationless  performance.  And 
when  you  compare  values,  you'll  have  the  full  story — for  nowhere 
is  there  a  car  so  fine  and  dependable  at  a  price  so  remarkably 
low. 

The  judgment  of  America  is  mighty  good  judgment  to  bank  on. 
And  America,  by  a  two-to-one  vote,  tells  you  to  buy  a  Buick. 

All  Buick  models  have  Love  joy  Hydraulic  shock 
absorbers,  front  and  rear,  as  standard  equipment 

All  prices  f.  o.  b.  Flint,  Mich.    The  G.  M.  A.  C.  finance  plan,  the 
most  desira':le.  is  available. 

HUNTLEY  AND  MARTIN 

WADESBORO,  N.  C. 


ASK  FOR  AND  USE  MELROSE  FLOUR 


Mleats  and  Croquettes 

VEAL  BIRDS 

Prepare  small  boneless  pieces  of  veal  as  for  steak,  beating  until  tender. 
Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  lay  on  slices  of  bacon  and  roll,  fasten  with 
toothpicks,  roll  in  flour  and  fry  in  pan  of  hot  fat.  Brown  quickly.  Pour  off 
part  of  fat,  add  water  to  cover,  place  lid  on  pans  and  cook  slowly  for  an  hour. 

— Mrs.  Myrtle  Bridges. 

LIVER  (SPANISH  STYLE) 

Place  in  a  baking  dish  a  layer  of  sliced  onions,  then  slices  of  liver  cut 
thin  and  rolled  in  flour,  on  liver  a  layer  of  onions,  a  medium-sized  tomato 
sliced,  two  small  green  peppers  chopped  fine  and  salt  and  pepper  to  season. 
Two  or  three  slices  of  breakfast  bacon  may  be  added.  Cover  with  boiling 
water  and  bake  in  moderate  even  until  thoroughly  done,  adding  water  if 
necessary. — Miss  Fairfid  Montsalvadge,  Memphis,  Tenn. 

RICE  AND  DRIED  BEEF 

2  eggs  V4,  lb.  dried  beef 

1  cup  sweet  milk  2  tablespoons  butter 

1  teaspoon  Royal  baking  powder  1  cup  left-over  rice 

Cut  beef  fine,  fry  in  butter,  and  mix  with  other  ingredients,  except  baking 
powder,  which  should  be  added  last.  Beat  well,  put  in  pan  and  bake  until 
light  brown. — Mary  Allen  Huntley. 

CROWN  OF  LAMB 

Place  crown  of  lamb  in  a  baking  pan,  dust  with  Melrose  flour  and  pepper, 
sear  in  a  hot  oven  and  then  add  1  cup  of  water,  1  teaspoon  salt,  and  bake 
in  quick  oven  for  1  hour,  basting  3  or  4  times.  When  done,  place  on  large 
round  platter  and  fill  crown  with  richly  seasoned  hot  green  peas  and  serve. 

Mrs.  T.  L.  Caudle. 

HAM  CROQUETTES 

Use  twice  as  much  mashed  potato  as  grated  ham.  Add  one  well-beaten 
egg.  Season  with  cayenne;  shape,  roll  in  bread  crumbs,  in  egg,  then  in 
bread  crumbs  again,  and  fry  a  golden  brown. — Mrs.  Ted  Coggeshall. 

BREADED  VEAL  CUTLETS 

Trim    and    cut    cutlet    into    individual    servings.     Season  with  salt  and 
nepper.     Dip  into  egg  batter  (1  egg,  %   cup  milk)  and  then  into  sifted 
bread  crumbs.    Fry  in  deep  fat.    Drain  and  serve  with: 
MAITRE  D'HOTEL  SAUCE.    See  recipe  on  page  25. 

23 


FLORAL  DESIGNS 

AND  CUT  FLOWERS 

FURNISHED  OX  SHORT  NOTICE 
Phone  129 

MISS  ANNIE  E.  KNOTTS 

WADKSBORO,  N.  C. 


THE  BANK  OF  WADESBORO 

Bids  for  Your  Business  with 

Capital  and  Surplus  Over  $  300,000.00 

Resources  Over   1,700,000.00 

We  Act  as  Executors  of  Estates. 

We  Pay  4  per  cent  Interest  on  Savings  Accounts. 
Ladies'  Accounts  Specially  Solicited. 

Consult  Us  on  Your  Financial  Problems. 

L.  D.  Robinson,  President 
H.  B.  Allen,  V.  President 
Adam  Loekhart,  Cashier 
T.  P.  Caraway,  Asst.  Cashier. 


Belk's  Department 
Store 

THE  HOUSE  OF  BETTER  VALUES 
WADESBORO,  N.  C. 


ASK  FOR  AND  USE  MELROSE  FLOUR 


BEEF  CASSEROLE 

Cut  IV2  pounds  of  round  steak  into  small  pieces,  dredge  in  Melrose 
flour  and  fry  with  one  large  onion  and  one  large  green  pepper  (minced) 
from  which  the  seeds  have  been  removed,  cook  until  brown.  Boil  one  cup 
of  rice  for  15  minutes,  now  put  a  layer  of  beef,  then  a  layer  of  rice,  then 
a  layer  of  canned  tomato.  Repeat  until  the  casserole  is  full,  finishing  with 
rice.  Now  pour  the  thickened  gravy  from  the  beef  over  all,  cover  and  bake 
for  an  hour.    Mashed  potatoes  may  be  used  instead  of  rice. 

— Mrs.  R.  L.  Hardison. 

Maitre  D'Hotel  Sauce 

6  tablespoons  butter  3  teaspoons  lemon  juice 

Dash  salt  and  pepper  3  teaspoons  chopped  parsley 

Mix  together  with  spoon  (do  not  melt)  and  gradually  work  in  lemon  juice. 

— Elizabeth  Allen. 

SWEET  BREADS 

Soak  in  cold  water  about  an  hour,  then  boil  in  salted  water  about  twenty 
minutes,  or  until  done.  Throw  them  into  cold  water  again  for  a  few 
minutes;  just  before  time  to  serve,  cut  them  in  even  size  pieces;  sprinkle 
with  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Dip  in  egg  and  bread  crumbs  and  fry  in 
boiling  lard;  drain  on  brown  paper.    Serve  with  green  peas.  (Tested.) 

CHICKEN  CROQUETTES 

1  pint  chicken  chopped  fine  1  tablespoonful  chopped  parsley 

V2  pint  milk  1  teaspoon  salt 

1  large  tablespoon  butter  Black  and  cayenne  pepper  to  taste 

2  tablespoonfuls  flour — Melrose 

Heat  the  milk,  melt  the  butter  and  stir  into  it  the  flour.  Put  this  into 
the  hot  milk,  stirring  until  very  thick.  Take  from  fire  and  add  chicken  and 
seasoning.  Beat  until  thoroughly  mixed.  When  cold  form  into  croquettes 
Dip  first  into  bread  crumbs,  then  into  beaten  egg  seasoned  with  pepp<  r  ^nd 
salt,  then  back  into  bread  crumbs.    Fry  in  deep  fat  till  golden  brown. 

—Mrs.  R.  W.  Allen. 

BROCHETTE  OF  CHICKEN  LIVERS 

The  chicken  livers  are  cooked  in  salted  water,  and,  when  tender,  sprinkled 
with  paprika  and  white  pepper.  Half  or  whole  livers  are  wrapped  in  strips 
of  bacon  and  broiled  in  an  oven  (not  under  the  flame)  until  the  bacon  is 
crisp.  The  brochettes  are  then  placed  on  thin  triangles  of  buttered  toast 
and  garnished  with  sliced  lemon  and  sprigs  of  parsley  or  water  cress. 

Mrs.  T.  L.  Caudle. 


25 


mm^mmmmm  m  m  <♦>  <♦>      '•:♦>  ■<«>  ■  •sb--:^:^x^kx#>:^>c5« 


MEALS 


I  rii  r\L 


|  Pleasing  to  the  Taste. 

OLD  DUTCH  TEA  ROOM 

CORNER  WADE  AN D  WASHINGTON  STS. 
$  WADESBORO,  N.  C. 


<♦>  ♦:♦>  <♦>  <♦>  <o*  »  w  m  wi»»:w»««« 
•:♦>  m  •»>       «  <♦>  m  <❖> 


EVERYTHING  THE  BEST  i 


%      Our  One  Aim — to  Always  Sell  the  Best  of  Everything.  % 

EQUALITY"  % 
%  CHASE  &  SANBORN  Tea  and  Coffee. 

*  J.   E.  GRAY  &  SON 


V 


PHONE  95  -  96.  % 


*mmmmmt  m  m  m  m  m  m  mmmfmmmmm^ 
DR.  JAMES  M.  COVINGTON  1 


No.  41  Cor.  Washington  and  Wade  Sts. 

v  P 

i  Office  Phone  :  3  ;  Residence  :  3-A  & 

$  <? 

$  Wadesboro,  North  Carolina 

<♦>  <♦>  <❖>  <❖>•.<❖>.. «  <♦>  . m  m  m< mm 'mm 'mm mm m%  -mm mm >t 

s  mmm  <♦>  -<♦><♦>  n  m  m  «>•  «  wmmMmmmmmmmmm  < 
1 

|  B.  C.   MOORE  &  SONS 

Dry  Goods  —  Shoes  —  Ladies'  Wear 
'$          Notions  —  Clothing  —  Men's  Wear 

$  Buy  from  Moore  and  Save  More. 

Wadesboro,  N.  C. 

I 


  FOR  STYLE  AND  COMFORT  DRIVE  AN  ESSEX  OR  HUDSON   


SWISS  STEAK 


2  pounds  round  steak  (2  or  3  inches      lA  cup  flour 

thick)  1  medium  size  onion 

Salt  steak  and  beat  flour  well  into  it.  Brown  quickly  on  both  sides  in 
hot  fat.  Add  water,  cover  tightly  and  steam  until  very  tender.  More 
water  may  be  added  if  necessary.  When  about  half  done,  add  chopped 
onion.    Tomato  may  be  substituted,  or  both  used. — Mrs.  F.  G.  Fetfeer. 


MEAT  LOAF  NO.  1 


1  lb.  fresh  pork 
1  weiner 

1  cup  grated  carrots 

1  cup  bread  crumbs 

2  lbs.  round  steak  or  veal 


1  medium  sized  onion 

2  level  teaspoons  salt 
V2  teaspoon  pepper 
Dash  cayenne  pepper 

V2  can  tomato  soup  (if  you  wish) 


Bake  about  an  hour. — Mrs.  E.  A.  Allen. 


MEAT  LOAF  NO.  2 


2  pounds  round  steak  1  tablespoon  chopped  parsley 

V2  pound  fresh  pork  1  cup  bread  crumbs 

1  teaspoon  salt  1  egg 

14  teaspoon  pepper  1  cup  sweet  milk 

4  hard-boiled  eggs  Strips  of  bacon 

Put  meat  through  food  chopper.  Add  seasonings,  bread  crumbs,  well 
beaten  egg  and  milk.  Mix  thoroughly,  place  in  greased  roaster,  with  boiled 
eggs  in  center  and  form  loaf.  Put  strips  of  bacon  on  top  and  bake  about 
1  hour,  using  1  tablespoon  butter  melted  in  1  cup  boiling  water  to  baste 
with.    When  done,  garnish  with  strips  of  pimiento  and  sprigs  of  parsley. 

—Mrs.  J.  P.  McRae. 


POT  ROAST 

Select  a  four  to  five  pound  round,  rump,  or  chuck  beef.  Wash  and  wipe 
with  dry  cloth.  Rub  well  with  flour  to  which  salt  and  pepper  have  been 
added.  If  there  is  a  piece  of  fat  with  the  beef,  fry  it  out  in  the  bottom  of 
the  pot  (an  iron  pot  is  best).  If  there  is  no  fat,  put  in  three  tablespoons 
of  lard  or  other  fat,  and  sear  the  meat  on  all  sides.  Add  one  cup  of  boiling 
water,  cover  tightly  and  simmer  gently. 

Do  not  let  the  water  cook  entirely  away,  but  keep  adding  a  little  at  the 
time.  Cook  until  meat  is  tender,  from  two  to  three  hours  at  the  least, 
remove  meat  from  pot  and  sprinkle  a  little  more  flour  and  add  enough 
water  to  make  gravy;  usually  a  half  cup  of  water  is  sufficient. 

If  you  like  onions,  slice  the  onions  and  add  to  the  roast  about  half  an 
hour  before  taking  up.  Be  sure  to  have  a  bowl  of  nice  flaky  rice  to  go  with 
the  gravy,  or  a  dish  of  mashed  potatoes. — Mrs.  Rosalind  A.  Redfearn. 


21 


^    L-G.ATKlNSOt*  \^ 

Real  Estate  and  Insurance 

,  SURETY  BONDS  , 

WADCSBORO,  IN.  C.  X, 


ROSS  DRUG  CO.,  Ansonville,  N.  C. 

F.  L.  0 shorn,  Mgr. 
DRUGS  AND  TOILET  ARTICLES. 


J.  F.  ROSS  CO.,  Ansonville,  N.  G 

GROCERIES  &  FERTILIZERS, 
GOODRICH  TIRES  &  TUBES. 


O.  E.  ROSS,  Ansonville,  N.  C. 

DRY  GOODS  —  NOTIONS  —  SHOES, 
EVERYTHING  TO  WEAR. 


WE  SELL  EVERYTHING 

USUALLY  SOLD  IN  A  FIRST  CLASS 
DRUG  STORE. 

Also  we  carry  a  complete  line  of  Candy  for  that  Special 
Occasion.    Ice  (  ream,  too. 

PARSONS  DRUG  STORE 


FOR  STYLE  AND  COMFORT  DRIVE  AN  ESSEX  OR  HUDSON   


MINUTE  STEAK 

Cut  some  fine  steaks  barely  %  in.  thick  from  porterhouse  or  rib  roast. 
Remove  all  skin  and  sinews.  Heat  iron  frying-  pan  until  glowing  hot,  rub 
with  piece  of  raw  fat.  Salt  and  pan  broil  over  a  very  hot  fire  for  2  min.  on 
each  side.  Previously  stir  one  tablespoonful  butter  until  creamy,  add  some 
chopped  (very  fine)  parsley  and  a  few  drops  of  onion  juice.  Place  steaks 
in  a  nice  row  on  platter,  pour  off  some  of  fat  from  pan.  Put  in  one 
tablespoonful  of  water  and  while  this  boils,  brush  steak  with  the  prepared 
butter.  Place  them  for  one  moment  in  a  hot  oven,  pour  gravy  from  pan 
around  them.  Garnish  with  scraped  horseradish  on  a  lettuce  leaf.  Can 
garnish  also  with  any  desired  potatoes  or  with  fried  rings  of  onions.  A 1 1 
garnishings  must  be  ready  when  the  steaks  arc  done  as  they  must  be 
served  immediately  and  very  hot. — Mrs.  Adele  Rheinstein. 

JELLIED  TONGUE  MOLD 

1  pound    cold    boiled    or    canned     1  large  sour  or  dill  pickle 

tongue  1  tablespoonful  prepared  mustard 

2  hard  cooked  eggs  3  tablespoonfuls  prepared  mayon- 
2   tablespoonfuls   granulated   gela-  naise 

tine  2  tablespoonfuls  cold  water 

i  tablespoonful  mustard  pickle  2  cupfuls  hot  water 

Add  the  tongue  chopped  coarsely  to  the  eggs,  pickle,  and  mustard  pickle 
chopped.  Add  the  mustard  and  mayonnaise.  Meanwhile  soak  the  gelatine 
in  the  cold  water  for  five  minutes  and  dissolve  it  in  the  hot  water.  Cool, 
and  when  the  gelatine  begins  to  stiffen,  stir  into  it  the  tongue  mixture  and 
pour  all  into  a  cold,  wet  mold.  Let  harden  in  a  cold  place  and  serve 
garnished  with  parsley  or  lettuce.  If  just  a  sandwich  filling  is  desired, 
omit  the  gelatine  mixture. — Mrs.  Francis  E.  Liles. 

BEEF  LOAF  (OF  COLD  BEEF) 

Soak  one  tablespoon  of  gelatine  in  half  cup  of  cold  water  10  minutes 
Then  heat  a  quarter  of  a  cup  of  well-seasoned  stewed  tomatoes,  or  canned 
tomato  pulp  to  boiling  point  and  pour  over  gelatine,  stirring  well  until 
gelatine  is  dissolved.  Make  ready  two  cups  of  chopped  and  seasoned  meat 
mixed  with  one  tablespoon  of  lemon  juice  and  one  small  sour  pickle  minced 
fine.  Stir  tomato  into  meat  mixture  and  mould  in  earthen  dish.  Let  stand 
in  mold  until  jelly  is  stiff.    Serve  cold.— Mrs.  S.  R.  Moore. 

TO  BOIL  A  HAM 

Let  the  ham  soak  in  cold  water  all  night,  if  desired.  To  boil,  put  in  cold 
water,  skin  side  down.  After  water  comes  to  boiling  point,  lower  tempera- 
ture, letting  ham  cook  slowly  until  done.  It  will  take  about  20  or  25  minutes 
to  the  pound.  (One  cup  vinegar  left  from  peach  pickles  may  be  added  to 
water  in  which  ham  is  boiled.)  Leave  ham  in  water  until  cool.  Skin, 
sprinkle  over  with  bread  crumbs,  brown  sugar  an  l  black  pepper,  stick 
with  cloves  and  put  in  moderate  oven  for  a  few  minutes  to  brown. 

— Mrs.  L.  J.  Huntlev. 


29 


Some  folks  say  Wesson  Oil  is  best 
for  salad  dressings.  Others  say  it's 
best  for  shortenings.  And  others 
say  it's  best  for  frying. 

They  must  all  be  right — for  many- 
good  cooks  say  Wesson  Oil  is  best 
for  all  three  uses. 

A  fine  salad  oil,  like  Wesson  Oil, 
makes  things  taste  as  good  as  they 
can  taste. 


FOR  STYLE  AND  COMFORT  DRIVE  AN  ESSEX  OR  HUDSON   


Sauczs  .for  Mleats  an6  JHsl) 


THICK  WHITE  SAUCE  FOR  CROQUETTES 

Put  two  and  a  half  tablespoons  of  butter  in  a  saucepan  until  melted.  Add 
cne-third  cup  of  flour,  one-fourth  teaspoon  pepper.  When  thiis  is  well 
blended,  add  one  cup  milk,  then  stir  until  smooth  and  thick. 

BROWN  SAUCE 

Melt  three  tablespoons  butter.  Add  three  tablespoons  flour,  one  cup  brown 
stock,  one-fourth  teaspoon  salt  and  pepper,  a  few  drops  of  onion  juice.  Be 
careful  to  let  the  butter  and  flour  brown,  not  burn,  before  adding  other 
ingredients. 

TOMATO  SAUCE 

Put  together  in  saucepan  one-half  can  tomatoes,  one-half  onion,  one 
teaspoon  parsley.  Cook  twenty  minutes,  then  rub  through  sieve.  Melt  two 
tablespoons  butter  in  another  pan.  Add  two  tablespoons  flour  until  smooth 
Add  the  tomato  juice  slowly,  stirring  constantly.  Cook  five  minutes.  Then 
add  salt  and  pepper  and  a  pinch  of  soda. 

MINT  SAUCE 

Three  tablespoons  of  finely  chopped  mint  leaves,  two  tablespoons  of  sugar. 
Cover  with  six  tablespoons  of  vinegar.  Let  stand  an  hour.  Squeeze  and 
strain.    Serve  with  lamb. 

SAUCE  FOR  FISH 

To  two  yolks  of  eggs,  add  one  tablespoon  of  flour.  Beat  well.  Add  one 
cup  milk.  Stir  until  it  boils.  Add  one  tablespoon  butter,  one  tablespoon 
vinegar,  salt,  pepper  and  a  pinch  of  mustard. 

HOLLANDAISE  SAUCE 

%  cup  butter  2  egg  yolks 

V2  cup  boiling  water  1  tablespoon  lemon  juice. 

Wash  butter.  Divide  in  three  pieces.  Put  one  piece  in  double  boiler  with 
boiling  water,  well  beaten  egg  yolks  and  lemon  juice.  Stir  constantly  until 
butter  is  melted.  Add  second  piece  of  butter  and  as  mixture  thickens  add 
third  piece.    Season  with  salt  and  pepper. — Mrs.  T.  L.  Caudle. 


RUTH  ANN  McCOLLUM,  R.  N. 

Private  Duty  Nursing 

will  answer  calls  at  anson  sanatorium 
Phone  14- J 


If  it  is  insurable,  we  write  it. 

If  it  is  bondable,  we  execute  the  bonds. 

If  it  is  salable,  we  sell  it. 

It  you  are  interested  in  any  form  of  insurance  or  anv 
form  of  fidelity  bonds,  or  if  you  have  any  real  estate  to 
sell  it  will  pay  you  to  see  us. 

ANSON  REAL  ESTATE 
&  INSURANCE  COMPANY 

' ' I NS UR A NC  E  H E ADQ U ART ERS, " 

Wadesboro,  N.  C. 


DR.  J.  E.  HART 

5  N.  Green  St. 
Wadesboro,  N.  C. 

Phone  182 


FOR  STYLE  AND  COMFORT  DRIVE  AN  ESSEX  OR  HUDSON   


SAUCES  FOR  FISH  AND  MEATS 

Appropriate  Sauces  for  serving  with: 


Roast  beef — 

Tomato  catsup 

Grated  horse-radish 
Roast  lamb — 

Mint  sauce. 
Roast  pork — 

Apple  sauce. 
Roast  turkey — 

Cranberry  or  celery 

Plum  or  grape  sauce. 
Roast  chicken — 

Currant  jelly 
Boiled  turkey — 

Oyster  sauce. 


Broiled  steak — 

Mushrooms — fried  onions. 
Pigeon  pie — 

Mushroom  sauce. 
Roast  goose — 

Apple  sauce. 
Fried  salmon — 

Egg  sauce. 
Broiled  mackerel — 

Stewed  gooseberries. 
Boiled  or  baked  fish — 

White  cream  sauce 

Drawn  butter  sauce. 

(Tested.) 


33 


1     GASOLINE    ACCESSORIES  OIL  | 

|  Good  Service  Plus  % 

^  Good  Gulf  Products.  ,% 

DIXIE  SERVICE  STATION  t 

 :  and  :   & 


WADESBORO  SERVICE  STATION  | 


H.  B.  ALLEN  &  CO. 

QUALITY  AND  STYLE  CLOTHIERS 
For  Men,  Young  A  fen,  Boys.    Shoes  and  Hosiery  for 
The  Whole  F  amily. 

H.  B.  ALLEN  &  CO. 


LYON'S  FEED  &  SEED  STORE 

DAIRY,  POULTRY,  HOG  AND  ALL  KINDS  OF 
FEED.  FIELD  AND  GARDEN  SEED  OF  EVERY 
DESCRIPTION. 

Old  Lyric  Theatre  Stand.  Phone  380 

Wadeshoro,  N.  C. 


YOU'LL  GET  ONLY  THE  BEST  * 


at  ::  


PENDER'S 

Wadesboro,  N.  C. 


 FOR  STYLE  AND  COMFORT  DRIVE  AN  ESSEX  OR  HUDSON   


;pouitn> 

SOUTHERN  FRIED  CHICKEN 

Unjoint  fat  young  chicken,  weighing  about  two  pounds.  Salt,  roll  in 
flour  and  fry  to  golden  brown  in  deep  fat.  When  nearly  done,  add  butter 
size  of  an  egg.  Take  up  chicken,  add  flour  to  fat,  let  brown  and  add  one  cup 
of  boiling  water.  Stir  uritil  thick  and  smooth.  Garnish  chicken  wilh 
parsley. — Mrs.  John  Dunlap. 

SUPERIOR  CHICKEN 

Boil  hen  until  tender,  and  dice.  To  one  hen,  one  bunch  of  celery  chopped 
and  cooked  separately  in  salt  water.  Then  into  long,  flat  baking  dish 
place  layer  of  hard-boiled  eggs,  then  layer  of  chicken,  cooked  celery,  and 
almonds,  cut  lengthwise.  Cover  this  with  cream  dressing  well  seasoned, 
and  bake.    Serve  hot  in  same  dish.  (Tested.) 

ROAST  TURKEY 

Pick  and  dress  with  care.  Wash  in  several  waters.  A  teaspoon  soda 
added  to  one  water  will  take  away  any  acidity.  Rub  with  salt — 2  table 
spoons  for  a  large  turkey.  Let  stand  one  or  more  days  before  cooking. 
When  ready  to  cook,  place  in  roaster  with  five  cups  hot  water.  Baste  the 
turkey  often,  turning  it  occasionally.  When  pierced  with  a  fork  and  the 
liquid  runs  clear,  the  turkey  is  done. — Mrs.  Henry  Little. 

Dressing  For  Baked  Chicken  or  Turkey 

3  cups  bread  crumbs  1  cup  cold  hominy  or  muffin 

XA  spoon  Royal  baking  powder 

Pour  over  this  sufficient  stock  to  soften.  Three  beaten  eggs,  small  onion, 
fresh  celery  chopped,  or  celery  seed,  and  pinch  of  sage.  If  not  rich  enough, 
add  butter,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  If  bread  is  heavy,  put  pinch  of  soda 
in  little  boiling  water  and  stir  in  dressing. — Mrs.  Henry  Little. 

MARBLED  CHICKEN 

Cook  a  beef  tongue  very  tender.  Remove  the  skin  and  cut  in  half-inch 
dice.  Boil  a  chicken  until  meat  will  drop  from  bone.  Remove  fat  and  skin, 
and,  when  cold,  chop  fine.  Hard  boil  2  or  4  eggs  and  cut  in  thin  slices. 
Season  meat  with  salt  and  pepper  and  enough  parsley  to  make  2  tablespoon- 
fuls.  To  one  pint  of  hot  stock  from  chicken,  add  one-third  package  of 
gelatine  which  has  been  soaked  in  one-third  cup  cold  water.  Dissolve, 
season,  and  drain  through  cheese-cloth.  When  gelatine  is  cold,  pour  a  thin 
layer  in  bottom  of  a  wet  mold.  Fill  mold  with  alternate  layers  of  chicken, 
tongue  and  eggs,  sprinkling  each  layer  with  the  parsley.  Pour  over  this 
just  enough  of  the  gelatine  mixture  to  moisten.  When  cold  and  firm,  slice 
and  garnish  with  parsley. — Mrs.  G.  S.  Ledbetter. 


MORVEN  DRUG  CO.  | 

I 

wants  your  trade  and  will  treat  you  right. 

Registered  Druggist.  | 
Morven,  N.  C.  f. 


\ 
Is 


Org  of  the  Carol'naV  Pre*  Test  Furniture  Stores. 
We  Cordially  Invite  You  to  Visit  Us. 


INCORPORATE  D 

M  P  ANY 

GOOD  FURNITURE  SINCE  19 O 6 


Wadesboro 


North  Carolina 


H.  P.  TAYLOR 

Attorney  at  Law 
Wadesboro,  N.  C. 

Residence  Phone  192  Office  Phone  89 


n 


COOK  WITH  COAL — COOL  WITH  ICE — \Y  ADESBORO  ICE  &  FUEL  CO. 


CHICKEN  A  LA  K  INC 


4  tablespoons  butter 

2  tablespoons  flour 
%  cup  chicken  stock 

3  tablespoons  canned  pimiento 


1  cup  boiled  chicken 

%  cup  thin  cream 

V2  can  sauted  mushroom  cups 

3  tablespoons  chopped  green  pepper 


Put  two  tablespoons  butter  in  sauce  pan,  add  flour  and  stir  until  well 
blended.  Then  add  gradually  the  stock  and  cream.  Bring  to  boiling  point 
and  add  remainder  of  butter,  mushroom,  and  pimiento.  Bring  to  a  boil 
again  and  add  egg  yolk,  slightly  beaten.    Add  chicken  and  serve  on  toast. 

— Miss  Pat  Barringer  Coxe. 


CHICKEN  A  LA  KING 


2  tablespoons  butter 
1  can  mushrooms 

Y2  teaspoon  salt 

3  cups  cooked  chicken  (chopped) 
3  egg  yolks 

1  tablespoon  lemon  juice 


1  green  pepper  (chopped) 

2  tablespoons  Melrose  flour 
2  cups  rich  milk 

M  cup  butter 

1  teaspoon  onion  juice 

Vz  teaspoon  paprika 


Melt  the  two  tablespoons  butter.  Cut  pepper  and  cook  until  tender  in 
small  amount  of  water.  Add  flour,  butter,  and  mushrooms,  salt  and  pepper, 
and  cook  until  it  froths.  Add  milk  and  let  come  to  a  boil.  Then  add 
chicken,  cover  and  let  stand  to  become  hot.  Cream  V±  cup  butter,  beat  egg 
yolks  into  it,  add  onion  juice,  lemon  juice,  and  paprika.  Then  stir  into 
first  mixture  and  continue  stirring  until  egg  is  set.    Serve  in  pastry  shells. 

— Mrs.  Frank  Bennett. 


CHICKEN  PIE 

Cut  a  young  tender  chicken  in  pieces. 

Place  in  kettle  and  add  enough  water  to  cover.  Add  one  small  slice  of 
bacon,  put  cover  on  kettle  and  let  simmer  slowly  until  chicken  is  tender, 
adding  a  little  more  water  if  needed.  Make  a  gravy  of  the  stock,  usinu 
2  tablespoons  full  of  Melrose  flour  for  each  cup  of  stock.  Use  for  th? 
crust  a  good  pie  pasts,  rolled  thicker  than  for  fruit  pies.  Line  the  sides 
of  a  deep  baking  dish  with  crust,  invert  in  the  middle  a  small  cup  or 
ramekin;  put  in  part  of  chicken,  season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  a  generous 
amount  of  butter,  and  a  few  pieces  of  pastry  cut  in  strips,  as  in  stewed 
chicken;  then  add  the  rest  of  the  chicken  and  season  again.  Put  in  the  dish 
2  cups  of  gravy  made  from  the  broth  in  which  the  chicken  was  cooked  and 
cover  top  with  a  crust.  The  cup  will  hold  the  crust.  Make  perforation? 
in  the  crust  with  a  fork.  Bake  1  hour  until  crust  is  done.  When  serving, 
after  cutting  the  first  slice,  slip  the  knife  under  the  ramekin  and  release 
the  gravy. — Mrs.  T.  L.  Caudle. 


37 


COOK  WITH  CO  A I — COOL  WITH  ICE — WA  DESBORO  ICE  &  Fl  EL  CO. 


CHICKEN  TLM BALES 


2  tablespoons  butter 

V4  cup  stale  bread  crumbs 

Two-thirds  cup  milk 

Salt  and 


1  cup  chopped  cooked  chicken 
V2  tablespoon  chopped  parsley 

2  eggs 
pepper 


Melt  butter,  add  crumbs  and  milk,  cook  five  minutes,  stirring  constantly, 
add  chicken,  parsley  and  egg  slightly  beaten,  season,  salt  and  pepper,  turn 
into  buttered  molds,  having  them  two-thirds  full.  Set  in  pan  hot  water. 
Cover  with  lid  and  bake  twenty  minutes;  serve  with  cream  sauce. 

— Mrs.  C.  S.  Brasington. 


CASSEROLE  CHICKEN 


Make  a  dressing  of  rich  corn  bread  crumbled,  seasoned  liberally  with 
chopped  onion,  sage,  butter,  salt  and  pepper.  Spread  in  the  bottom  of  a 
shallow  casserole.  Joint  a  small  frying-size  chicken,  season  with  salt  and 
pepper,  dip  in  hot  fat  and  roll  in  flour.  Lay  on  top  of  dressing,  covei 
tightly  and  cook  until  tender.    Remove  cover  and  let  brown. 

—Mrs.  Elliott  Boswell,  Va. 


CURRIED  CHICKEN 


1  cup  milk  2  tablespoons  Melrose  flour 

3  tablespoons  butter  6  drops  onion  juice 

1  cup  chicken  stock  2  cups  diced  chicken 

x/±  teaspoon  salt  Few  pinches  of  curry 


Make  regular  cream  sauce  with  butter,  flour,  milk  and  stock.  Season 
with  curry,  salt  and  pepper.    Pour  over  chicken  and  serve  on  toast. 

— Mrs.  H.  B.  Covington. 


SMOTHERED  CHICKEN 


Select  young  chicken  from  2  to  4  pounds.  Dress  and  split  open  down 
back.  Spread  chicken  out  flat  and  season  with  salt,  pepper,  dredge  lightly 
with  flour.  Place  chicken  in  pan,  with  skin  side  up.  Lay  two  or  three 
slices  of  bacon  over  each,  add  1  cup  boiling  water  and  cover  tightly.  When 
chicken  is  about  half  done,  squeeze  juice  of  V2  lemon,  or  1  teaspoon  of 
vinegar,  over  each  fowl. 

Baste  occasionally  with  liquid  in  pan.  If  water  should  cook  out,  replace 
until  about  samg'  amount.  At  the  last,  remove  cover  from  pan  and  let 
chicken  brown  nicely.  Remove  to  platter,  garnish  with  sliced  lemon  and 
parsley.  Add  V2  cup  of  milk  in  which  1  teaspoon  of  flour  has  been  blended 
to  the  gravy,  let  boil  up  once  and  then  remove  from  fire. 

— Mrs.  Rosalind  A.  Redfearn. 


39 


KITCHEN  WARE 

Our  Kitchen  Ware  in  the  Very  ALUMINUM  and 
I  N  AM  EL  will  delight  the  housewife.  It  is  Quality 
H' arc  that  sells  at  a  Moderate  Price. 

STANBACK  -  GRAY  HDWE.  CO. 

RELIABLE  HARDWARE. 


Achcraft's  Dep't  Store 

WADESBOKO,  N.  C. 


QUALITY  FIRST 


Then  an  Attractive  Price 


WE  AIM  TO  PLEASE 


ANSON  BUILDING  &  LOAN 
ASSOCIATION 

ORGANIZED  18S9  31  EAST  WADE  STREET 

Wadesboro,  N.  C. 

T.  A.  Marshall,  Pres.  J.  A.  Hardison,  Sr.,  Vice-Pres. 

1  aul  J.  Kiker,  Sec.  &  Treas. 
DIRECTORS: 
Dr.  C.  I.  Allen,    C.  S.  Brasington,    B.  E.  Bennett, 
W.  L.  Marshall,    H.  H.  McLendon,    R.  B.  Medley 
S.  S.  Shepherd,    H.  H.  Hardison. 
las.  A.  Hardison,  Sr.,    G.  W.  Huntley,    T.  A.  Marshall 


COOK  WITH  CO  A I — COOL  WITH  ICE — WADESBORO  [CE  &  FUEL  CO. 


CHICKEN  MOUSSE 


6  cupfuls  of  chopped  cooked  chicken 
2  cupfuls  of  cream,  whipped 
4  cupfuls  of  hot  chicken  stock 
6   tablespoonfuls   of  gelatine  (not 
acid) 

1  cupful  of  chopped  cooked  celery 


1  cupful  of  chopped  cooked  green 
pepper 

3  tablespoonfuls  chopped  pimientoes 
8  teaspoonfuls  of  salt 
%  teaspoonful  of  pepper 
1  cupful  of  cold  water 


Cook  two  five-pound  hens  until  the  meat  is  very  tender.  Chop  the 
meat,  which  will  be  approximately  six  cupfuls.  Reserve  the  hot  stock. 
Soak  the  gelatine  in  the  cold  watei-  for  five  minutes,  add  the  boiling  chicken 
stock  and  stir  until  the  gelatine  is  dissolved.  Chill  together.  Pour  into 
a  mold,  preferably  an  oblong  or  square  one,  and  chill  on  ice  three  to  four 
hours.  It  is  very  attractive  if  individual  molds  are  used.  Serve  on  a 
lettuce  leaf  garnished  with  the  yolk  of  hard-cooked  egg  mashed  through 
sieve.    May  be  served  with  or  without  mayonnaise. 

— Mrs.  Rosalind  A.  Redfearn. 


BARBECUED  CHICKEN 


1  2-lb  chicken  M  lb.  butter 

1  cup  vinegar  y2  cup  water 

Split  chicken  down  back,  sprinkle  with  salt.  Add  water,  butter,  vinegar 
and  hi  pod  red  pepper  broken  up.  Cook  in  oven  until  done,  basting  fre- 
quently with  liquid  made  of  water,  butter,  and  a  little  vinegar.  Serve  with 
brown  sauce. — Mrs.  Daisy  B.  Parsons,  Norwood,  N.  C. 


STEWED    CHICKEN    (SPANISH  STYLE) 


Joint  grown  chicken,  salt  and  pepper  it.  Cut  up  a  small  piece  of  salt 
pork  into  little  squares  and  put  in  pot  to  brown.  Put  in  chicken  and  stir, 
cover  and  let  siimmer.  Cut  up  onion  and  tomato  and  when  the  water  drie? 
out  brown  chicken  in  the  onion  and  tomato,  adding  lard.  Add  a  sprinkle 
of  flour  and  enough  water  to  cover  chicken  and  let  cook  until  tender. 
Beef  may  be  stewed  in  same  way. — Mrs.  T.  A.  Marshall. 


41 


U.  B.  Blalock,  President  W.  L.  Teal,  Sec'y-Treas.  and  Mgr. 

J.  A.  Eller,  Shop  Supt. 

BLALOCK  MOTOR  SALES 
COMPANY 

SINCE  1908  —  AUTHORIZED  DEALER 
LINCOLN    :  :  FORD   :  :  FORDSOX 
CARS— TRUCKS— TRACTORS 
\Y  A  D  E  S  B  ()  R  O,  X.  C. 


:4*c<<»  <♦>       <«>  •»>  xcx:*^  <■■-  <f.  c  -so  ->s>>  "•a*  *s 


1 

FUEL 

"8 
1 

i 

raj 

COAL  and  WOOD 

i 

Quick  Delivery 

| 

Phone  48 

1 

W.  N.  JEANS 

i 

i 

Wadesboro,  N.  C. 

&  »  v»  <♦>  >x 

BANK  OF  MORVEN  f 

MORVEN,  N.  C. 

T.  V.  Hardison,  Pres  M.  L.  I  lam,  Cashier  i 
(j.  A.  Martin,  V-Pres.     H.  G.  Huntley,  Asst.  Cashier. 


The  Bank  of  Morven  is  now  a  quarter  of  a  century  ol<i 
and  the  personnel  of  its  management  is  practically  the 
same  as  in  1903.  Looking  back  over  these  twenty-five 
years  we  like  to  believe  we  have  done  our  part  towards 
the  progress  and  prosperity  of  our  country  and  the  com- 
munity. We  are  grateful  to  every  depositor  and  friend  $j 
$       for  the  support  they  have  given  us  in  establishing  this 

&  record. 
$ 

fi  $ 
§  M.  L.  HAM,  Cashier.  1 

$  | 
;       ♦:♦>  •:♦>  •:❖>  •:♦>       m  <♦>  >:«  <♦>  <<g* •:♦>  *:♦>**>-.:. 


COOK  WITH  COAL — COOL  W  ITH  ICE— WADESBORO  LCE  &  FUEL  CO. 


BLUSHING  BUNNY 


1  cup  cheese,  diced 
Vi  teaspoon  mustard 
1  cup  canned  tomato  soup 
Red  pepper  to  taste 


1  tablespoon  butter  • 
XA  teaspoon  salt 

2  eggs 
Toast. 


Place  cheese,  butter,  mustard,  salt  and  pepper  in  double  boiler.  Stir  until 
the  cheese  is  melted,  add  egg  yolks  and  soup,  and  cook  until  smooth.  Do  not 
allow  mixture  to  boil.    Serve  on  toast. — Mrs.  H.  B.  Covington. 


CHEESE  BALLS 


IV2  cups  grated  cheese  %  teaspoon  salt 

3  egg  whites  Dash  of  cayenne- pepper. 

Mix  salt,  pepper  and  cheese  thoroughly  together  then  add  egg  whites 
beaten  stiff.  Shape  in  small  balls,  roll  in  cracker  dust,  fry  in  deep  fat  and 
drain  on  brown  paper.    Serve  with  birds  or  boiled  chicken. 

—Mrs.  C.  T.  Pate,  Purvis. 

WELSH  RABBIT 

x4.  lb.  grated  cheese  V2  teaspoon  salt 

M  cup  cream  or  milk  2  teaspoons  butter    .  . 

V2  teaspoon  mustard  1  egg  A  little  cayenne  pepper 

Put  cheese,  milk  and  butter  in  double  boiler.  Add  mustard,  salt  and  pepper 
to  well  beaten  egg.  When  cheese  is  melted,  stir  this  mixture  into  it  and 
cook  until  it  thickens.    Serve  on  dry  toast. — Mrs.  Jas.  S.  Webb. 

SHIRRED  EGGS 

Have  the  egg  shirrers  or  earthenware  baking  dish  heated.  Allow  about 
one\  tablespoon  butter  to  each  egg  and  melt  in  dishes.  Break  eggs  into 
melted  butter  and  season  to  taste.  ...  Cook  in  moderate  oven  until  eggs  are 
set  and  serve  in  same  dishes.  Chopped  parsley  or  cheese  may  be  sprinkled 
over  eggs  before  cooking. — Mrs.  F.  M.  Little. 

BAKED  EGGS  NO.  1 

Mix  bread  or  cracker  crumbs,  seasoned  with  butter,  salt,  pepper  and  sage 
as  for  stuffing.  Add  to  this,  one  cup  chopped  chicken,  or  other  kind  of  meat, 
and  a  pinch  Royal  baking  powder.  Fill  buttered  muffin  tins  half  full  of  this 
mixture,  break  an  egg  on  top  of  each.  Bake  until  done.  Serve  hot.  Sprinkle 
top  of  eggs  with  salt  and  pepper. — Mrs.  Thos  G.  Wall. 


43 


THIS  BOOK  IS  A  GEM  FOR  THE  HOUSEKEEPER 

BUT,  WITHOUT  A  GOOD  COOK  STOVE,  IT  IS  USELESS. 

We  can  supply  it  in  the  COPPER  CLAD  RANGE  which  has  no 
equal  either  in  construction  or  design.    We  also  carry  a  full  line 
of  the  celebrated  NEW  PERFECTION  Oil  Cook  Stoves  and  Ovens. 
See  our  quality  line  of  Aluminum,  Copper,  Enamel,  Cast  and 
Steel  and  fine  cooking  wares — and  last  but  not  least  let  us  call 
your  attention  to  our  complete  line  of  Paints,  Varnishes,  Stains 
and  Quick  Driers.    We  can  supply  you  with  anything  in  this  line, 
as  we  devote  a  large  space  in  our  store  to  display  these  lines. 
MARSH-JONES      HARDWARE     CO.,  Inc. 
General  Hardware  and  Builders'  Supplies, 
Wadesboro,  N.  C. 


BRASWELL'S  MARKET 

NATIVE  AND  WESTERN  MEATS 

Groceries  and  Country  Produce 
PHONE  NO.  223 
Wadesboro,  N.  C. 


I  * 

*  DRY  GOODS  A  Store  Where  | 

NOTIONS  You'll  Like  to  Trade.  # 

i  BED  WEAR  4 

|  TABLE  LINENS 

I  piece  goods 

$  hosiery  | 

g    millinery    ready-to-wear 

WADESBORO  DRY  GOODS  CO. 

•  $ 

k  ym:  ::<♦>:  :w:  >se<  :^as<  >zs<  ymz  -$m.  ym  :m<  >m.  :m<  -m<  :m*:  >m.  >mc  >m.  >x 


BUTTERCUP 

ICE  CREAM 

Special  Attention  Given  Party  Orders 

BUTTERCUP  ICE  CREAM  CO. 

  Hamlet,  N.  C. 


COOK  WITH  COAL — COOL  WITH  ICE— WADESBORO  ICE  &  FUEL  CO. 


CHEESE  SOUFFLE 

2  tablespoons  butter  One  third  teaspoon  salt 

2  tablespoons  flour  Two-thirds  cup  grated  cheese 
V2  cup  scalded  milk               2  eggs     Few  grains  cayenne  pepper 

Melt  the  butter,  add  flour,  and  when  thoroughly  blended,  add  gradually 
the  scalded  milk,  stirring  constantly  until  smooth  and  thickened.  Then  add 
seasoning  and  cheese,  remove  from  fire  and  add  the  well  beaten  egg  yolk/; 
cool  and  fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten  whites.  Pour  in  buttered  baking  dish  and 
bake  30  minutes.    Serve  immediately. — Mrs.  Sam  S.  Steele. 

BAKED  EGGS  NO.  2 

4  hard  boiled  eggs  Bread  crumbs 

1  cup  grated  cheese  Cream  sauce. 

Slice  eggs  and  place  flat  in  baking  dish.  Pour  over  them,  medium  cream 
sauce,  to  which  has  been  added  the  grated  cheese.  Sprinkle  with  buttered 
bread  crumbs  and  brown. — Mrs.  H.  B.  Covington. 

ALIBI  EGGS 

1  tablespoon  butter  1  tablespoon  mixed  mustard 

1  tablespoon  Worcestershire  sauce      i  teaspoon  salt 

3  tablespoons  tomato  catsup  Pinch  of  red  pepper 

Let  ingredients  come  to  a  boil,  then  put  in  eggs.    Serve  on  toast. 

— Mrs.  Geo.  Scott,  Burkeville,  Va. 

SPANISH  OMELET 

4  eggs  1  small  onion 

1  large  tomato  Bash  pepper 

1  green  pepper  V2  teaspoon  salt 

Broil  about  four  strips  of  breakfast  bacon.  When  done,  remove  and  add 
chopped  onion,  pepper  and  tomato  and  let  cook  until  tender.  Beat  eggs  to- 
gether with  salt  and  pepper,  pour  over  vegetables,  scramble  all  together 
and  serve  very  hot. — Mrs.  C.  H.  Sutherland. 

CREAMED    POTATO    AND  EGGS 

Here  is  a  delicious  way  to  use  cold  creamed  potatoes.  Place  in  buttered 
llat  baking  dish  (pyrex  pie  plate  excellent),  make  indentations  large  enough 
to  hold  an  egg.  Break  a  fresh  egg  into  each  little  nest.  Sprinkle  with  ^alt, 
pepper  and  a  little  butter  and  bake  until  eggs  set.    Serve  in  dish  cooked  in. 

— ftlarv  Allen  Huntley. 


'15 


" 


**^»* 


HUDSON  SUPER-SIX 


LONG,  low  roof  lines  and  wide  low 
windows  with  decorated  reveals  give 
a  pleasant  slenderness  to  the  lines  of 
Hudson  Super-Six  Sedan  behind  the 
long  impressive  Hudson  hood.  The 
body  is  finished  in  two  pleasing  tones  of  brown,  the  deep 
tones  of  the  upper  body  being  pleasantly  relieved  by 
light-colored  window  reveals  and  red  striping.  Within, 
the  exterior  richness  of  this  model  is  reflected  in  mohair 
and  wool  upholstering,  a  warm  brown  being  used  for 
the  body  linings,  while  the  same  background  with  a  red 
figured  pattern  is  used  on  the  seats. 

Seat  cushions  are  form-fitting,  wide  and  comfortable. 
The  front  seat,  of  the  davenport  type,  is  adjustable  fore 
and  aft  to  fit  the  individual  driver. 

Wide  windows  of  oblong  shape  and  deep  reveals, 
lighter  than  the  body  color,  add  a  custom  touch  to  the 
exterior.  Rear  doors  are  of  unusual  width. 


THE  ESSEX 


| 
I 

la® 


MORE  than  half  a  million  people  have 
purchased  Essex  cars  in  the  past  three 
years.  That  fact  alone  establishes  Essex 
value  in  the  minds  of  careful  automobile 
owners  and  buyers. 

Now  a  new  Essex  is  ready  for  the  road.   In  easily 


measurable  qualities,  in  size,  in  fine  appearance  and 
appointment,  in  comfort  and  superlative  Super-Six  per- 
formance it  rises  again,  head  and  shoulders  above  the 
best  six-cylinder  value  that  even  Essex  has  offered  in 
other  years. 

HUDSON- ESSEX  SALES  | 

Wadesboro,  N.  C.  I 


—  Fill  Your  Larder  With  Richelieu—  Ferndale — Batavia  Food   Products  — 


SCRAMBLED  EGGS  (SPANISH  STYLE) 


V2  small  onion 

V2  pint  canned  tomatoes 

3  eggs 


V2  teaspoon  salt 
V2  teaspoon  pepper 
Butter 


Slice  the  onion  and  fry  in  butter.  Add  tomatoes  and  seasoning.  Cook 
about  five  minutes.  Drop  eggs  into  this  mixture,  stir  and  cook  slowly  until 
eggs  are  firm  as  desired.  Ground  beef  or  chopped  peppers  may  be  added 
to  this. — Mrs.  W.  L.  Marshall. 


Warm  the  biscuit  in  the  oven  to  restore  crispness;  don't  burn;  pour 
hot  milk  over  it,  dipping  the  milK  over  it  until  the  shreds  are  swollen; 
then  pour  a  little  cream  over  the  top  of  the  biscuit.  Or  serve  with  cold 
milk  or  cream,  according  to  individual  taste. 


Make  a  thin  white  sauce  with  butter  and  Melrose  flour,  milk  and  seasoning. 
Separate  yolks  from  white  of  eggs,  chop  whites  finely  and  add  them  to 
sauce.  Cut  four  slices  of  toast  in  halves  lengthwise,  arrange  on  platter 
and  pour  over  sauce.  Force  the  yolks  through  a  potato  ricer  or  strainer, 
sprinkling  over  the  top.  Garnish  with  parsley  and  remaining  toast  cut 
in  points. — Mrs,  R.  S.  Pruette. 


SHREDDED  WHEAT  BISCUIT  FOR  BREAKFAST 


EGGS  A  LA  GOLDENROD 


3  hard-boiled  eggs 

1  tablespoon  butter 

1  tablespoon  Melrose  flour 

1  cup  milk 


V2  teaspoon  salt 
V2  teaspoon  pepper 
5  slices  of  toast 
Parsley 


47 


$  Texaco  Products  I 

$  FISK  TIRES  | 

$  Car  Washing  a  Specialty  |5 

|  WADE  SERVICE  STATION  | 

§  A.  R.  DEAN,  Mgr.  | 

|l  Corner  Washington  St.  and  Highway  20. 

:  •»>  •se-rx^xxc.i  :.<♦>       ♦«>>•♦:❖>  •<♦>  •:♦>  •:♦>  ♦:♦>  *  w  *  * 


WHEN  YOU  EAT 

AWAY  FROM  HOME 
Try 

AMERICAN  CAFE 

Wadesboro,  N.  C. 


mam  ^MOi  <«♦  mmmmmmmmmmmmmmimmm  mam 

i     For  Good  Groceries  $ 

AND  GOOD  SERVICE,  TRY 


J.  S.  Teal,  Jr. 

Wadesboro,  N  C. 


<♦>  <♦>  <♦>  <♦>  <♦>  ♦:♦>  «>  •<♦>  $w  ^x^xi^s^x^:x^x^:x^^. 

ONLY  RELIABLE,  SKILLED  1 

CONTRACTORS  I 

$      Are  eligible  to  obtain  State  License,  and  belong  to  the  $ 

^       Associated  General  Contractors  of  America.  || 

So  let  us  do  your  worrying  and  building.  t? 

SULLIVAN  &  McQUAGE  | 

I  GENERAL  CONTRACTORS 


I  Tel.  No.  308  Wadesboro,  N.  C. 


/a\  .v.   .«^».  .*!?"».  vmv  '  .fasv  ■ -i«5»»'  •-i'M^v'i<MK*v- 

«.V>     %W»  *W»  v^-»      <.▼/    Vfc»*  W    \5%*  \^»* 


—  Fill  Your  Larder  With  Richelieu— Ferndale — Batavia  Food   Products  — 


Vegetables 

CREAMED  VEGETABLES 

Vegetables  are  appetizing  when  served  with  cream  sauce.  Carrots,  peas 
potatoes,  celery,  cabbage  and  cauliflower  may  be  used  in  this  way. 

White  Sauce 

1  tablespoon  butter  One-ninth  teaspoon  salt 

1  tablespoon  flour  %  cup  milk 

Melt  butter,  add  flour  and  salt.  Mix  well,  then  add  milk,  stirring 
constantly.    Cook  two  minutes. 

Cauliflower 

Prepare  cauliflower  and  cut  into  medium  sized  pieces.  Drop  into  boiling 
water,  slightly  salted,  and  cook  until  tender,  about  20  to  25  minutes.  Take 
up,  drain,  and  add  white  sauce.    Serve  hot. 

Cabbage 

Look  over  and  chop  cabbage  into  small  pieces,  cook  in  very  little  water, 
slightly  salted,  until  tender.  Take  up,  drain  and  cover  with  white  sauce. 
Serve  hot. — Mrs.  Rosalind  A.  Redfearn. 

ESCALLOPPED  CABBAGE 

Prepare  as  above.  To  two  cups  of  cooked  cabbage  add  %  tablespoon  of 
paprika,  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  %  cup  bread  crumbs,  1  cup  white  sauce. 
Mix  well,  put  in  buttered  baking  dish,  cover  with  buttered  crumbs,  bake 
in  moderate  oven  until  brown. — Mrs.  Rosalind  A.  Redfearn. 

ASPARAGUS 

Scrape  the  stalks  and  let  stand  in  cold  water  for  V2  hour.  Put  into 
raited  boiling  water  and  cook  about  20  minutes  or  until  tender  but  not 
limp.    Serve  on  buttered  toast  with  melted  butter  or  Hollandaise  sauce. 

—Mrs.  T.  L.  Caudle. 

SPINACH 

Look  over  the  spinach,  wash  in  4  waters,  take  off  stalks  and  boil  in  a  sauce- 
pan without  water  for  thirty  minutes,  covering  closely.  Drain  and  cut  with 
a  knife  while  draining;  season  with  pepper,  salt  and  a  little  butter,  and 
slice  2  hard-boiled  eggs  over  the  top.  Serve  hot.  Or,  put  spinach  through 
colander,  mix  with  a  good  cream  sauce  and  put  2  hard-boiled  eggs,  which 
have  been  put  through  a  potato  ricer,  on  top,  and  serve. — Mrs.  R.  S.  Pruette. 


49 


Royal  contains  no  alum  —  leaves  no  bitter  taste! 


—  Fill  Your  Larder  With  Richelieu — Ferndale — Batavia  Food  Products  — 


STUFFED  SQUASH 

Scoop  out  inside  of  6  medium  sized  squashes,  saving  shells  to  be  stuffed. 
Boil  inside  until  tender  in  salt  water,  drain  and  add  bread  crumbs,  salt, 
pepper  and  1  minced  onion.  Stuff  shells  with  mixture,  sprinkle  with  bread 
crumbs  and  put  slice  of  bacon  on  each.  Bake  in  quick  oven  until  brown. 
Hard-boiled  eggs  or  mincer  ham  may  be  added. — Mrs.  E.  A.  Allen. 

STUFFED  ONIONS 

G  medium  sized  Bermuda  onions  x/2  cup  chopped  ham 

11  cup  chopped  green  peppers  1/2  cup  bread  crumbs 
Two-thirds  cup  milk                            y2  teaspoon  salt 

1  tablespoon  fat  Pepper 
Buttered  bread  crumbs 

Skin  and  cut  a  slice  from  top  of  each  onion.  Parboil  the  onions  until 
almost  tender,  then  drain  and  scoop  out  the  centers.  Chop  the  onion  that 
was  removed  and  combine  with  ham,  peppers,  and  bread  crumbs.  Add 
seasonings,  and  refill  onion  cups.  Place  in  a  baking  dish,  cover  with  buttered 
bread  crumbs,  add  the  milk  and  bake  until  tender. — Mrs.  T.  L.  Caudle. 

CORN  PUDDING 

Scrape  substance  from  12  ears  of  tender  green  corn,  add  4  eggs,  yolks 
and  whites  beaten  separately,  1  teaspoon  sugar,  1  teaspoon  Melrose  flour, 
blended  with  1  tablespoon  butter,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  1  pint  milk. 
Bake  from  to  %  hour.  May  substitute  1  can  corn  and  use  V2  other 
ingredients,  if  desired. — Miss  Annie  Frost,  Mt.  Carmel,  Pa. 

CORN  A  LA  MEXICAN 

1  cup  of  corn  (fresh  or  canned)  V±  cup  grated  cheese 

2  beaten  eggs  V2  chopped  green  pepper 
Vs  teaspoon  paprika  XA  teaspoon  salt 

Vii  cup  milk 

Mix  ingredients;  sprinkle  with  buttered  bread  crumbs.  Bake  in  moderate 
oven  until  thickened  as  a  custard. — Mrs.  Rosalind  A.  Redfearn. 

ENGLISH  ONIONS 

12  small  onions  %  cup  white  sauce 

3  tablespoons  cheese  V2  teaspoon  salt 

2  tablespoons  butter  V2  cup  bread  crumbs 

Parboil  the  onions  in  salted  water.  Drain.  Sprinkle  half  of  crumbs  in 
bottom  of  an  oiled  baking  dish.  Add  the  onions,  sprinkle  on  the  cheese 
and  then  the  remainder  of  the  bread  crumbs.  Dot  with  butter  and  pour 
a  thin  white  sauce  over  the  mixture.  Season  with  salt.  Brown  in  a  moderate 
oven.   This  is  very  good. — Mrs.  Rosalind  A.  Redfearn. 


51 


MAN'S 


Clothing  and  Gent's  Furnishings 

Stetson  Hats — Herman  Shoes 
Clothing-  of  Style  and  Quality 
We  invite  you  to  our  Store 

B  E  E  M  A  N  '  S  Wadesboro,  N, 


BANKING 

WE  ESPECIALLY  INVITE  THE 
ACCOUNTS  OF  THE 
HOUSEKEEPERS 

Budget  your  Household  Expenses  and 
give  Checks  in  Payment  of  all  accounts. 

FIRST  NATIONAL  BANK 

WADESBORO,  N.  C. 

Organized,  1894 
MEMBER  OF  FEDERAL  RESERVE  SYSTEM 

Conservative  —  Safe  —  Successful. 


Goodwin*  y  T  GRAVES 

j^le  BARBER  SHOP 

Are  Under  Fox  &  Lyon's 

Particular 


—  Fill  Your  Larder  With  Richelieu — Ferndale — Batavia  Food  Products  - 


POTATOES 


Peel  and  cut  potatoes  in  cubes.  Put  in  kettle  with  just  enough  water 
to  cook  them  for  20  minutes,  add  salt  to  taste.  The  water  should  dry  out 
and  leave  the  potatoes  crumbly,  bu';  in  whole  pieces.  Sprinkle  grated  cheese 
over  the  potatoes  in  the  kettle,  adi  white  sauce  almost  to  cover,  let  stand 
on  stove  till  cheese  melts  and  serve  at  once.    This  is  delicious. 

— Mrs.  Rosalind  A.  Redfearn. 


PARSLEY  POTATOES 


Cook  potatoes  and  dice,  adding  salt  and  pepper.  Make  rich  cream  sauce, 
put  potatoes  into  sauce  pan,  turning  gently  until  piping  hot,  add  finely 
chopped  parsley  last  thing  and  serve  at  once.    An  appetizing  supper  dish. 

—Mrs.  J.  D.  Homo. 


BAKED  TOMATOES 

To  1  quart  of  tomatoes  nut  1  cup  of  sugar,  2  biscuits  broken  into  small 
bits,  a  tablespoon  of  butter,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Bake  in  earthen  or 
pyrex  dish. 


STUFFED  TOMATOES 

1  doz.  large  tomatoes  1  teacup  stale  bread  crumbs 

1  lb.  cold  beef  2  eggs 

1  slice  boiled  ham  1  onion 

Salt  and  pepper 

Slice  off  ends  of  tomatoes,  scoop  out  seed  and  sprinkle  inside  wTith  salt 
and  pepper.  Mix  the  beef  and  ham,  chopped  fine,  the  bread  crumbs,  well- 
beaten  eggs,  fried  onion  (minced),  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Stuff 
tomatoes  and  bake  for  1  hour. — Mrs.  Ben  I.  Dunlap. 


GUMBO 

Cut  up  one  quart  of  okra,  add  1  quart  of  tomatoes,  1  small  minced  onion, 
2  tablespoons  of  Franklin  sugar,  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste.    Cook  slowly. — Mrs.  F.  M.  Little. 


STUFFED  PEPPERS 

G  green  peppers  2  tablespoons  butter 

2  cups  ground  ham  V2  teaspoon  pepper 

1  small  onion  2  cups  bread  crumbs 

2  teaspoons  salt  1  cup  milk 

Split  peppers  lengthwise  and  remove  seed.  Parboil  15  min.,  stuff  with 
the  filling  mixed  in  order  given.  Add  a  layer  of  bread  crumbs  and  small 
pieces  of  butter  on  top.    Put  in  oven  and  brown. 

— Mrs.  C.  N.  Ingram,  Darlington,  S.  C. 


53 


SAUER'S  VANILLA 


32  OTHER  FLAVORS  AND  COLORS 


superiority,  but  it  is  another  thing  to  back  those  claims  up  with 
facts. 

For  more  than  a  third  of  a  century  Sauer's  Flavoring  Extracts 
have  been  manufactured  and  sold  on  a  quality  basis.  Sauer's 
thirty-three  varieties  of  flavor  are  of  the  highest  quality  thirty- 
three  years  of  practical  experience  can  produce.  ; 

Sauer's  Vanilla  is  made  by  the  exclusive  Sauer  process  from  j 
only  the  choicest  of  selected  Vanilla  Beans.    The  beans  are  aged  ; 
before  using  and  the  Vanilla  is  aged  after  manufacture.    It  is 
approximately  two  years  from  the  time  the  beans  are  purchased 
until   Sauer's  Vanilla   is   marketed.     This  process  insures  the 
purchaser  a  true  full  flavor. 

Sauer's  Flavoring  Extracts  are  all  manufactured  Extra  Strong 
— many  of  them  have  for  many  years  been  double  and  tripla 
strength,  and  more,  according  to  the  goods.  i 

At  the  great  world  expositions  mentioned  in  this  booklet 
Sauer's  was  entered  in  competition  with  the  world's  best  manu- 
facturers and  the  verdict  rendered  by  competent  judges  who  were 
expert  in  determining  the  quality  of  flavoring  extracts.  In  every 
instance  the  House  of  Sauer  was  given  the  highest  award  on  the 
basis  of  Purity,  Strength,  and  Fine  Flavor.  : 

This  verdict,  rendered  in  open  competition  by  competent  judges, 
should   satisfactorily   settle   all   arguments   as  to   the   superior  i 
quality  of  Sauer's. 

In  specifying  Sauer's  when  ordering  flavoring  extracts  the 
purchaser  is  always  assured  the  very  best  that  money  can  buy — 
quality  of  an  established  fact,  not  an  idle  claim.    Every  package  j 
is  fully  guaranteed  to  give  full  flavoring  satisfaction.    The  name 
SAUER  is  a  guarantee  of  quality. 

Salter's  is  the  largest  selling  brand  in  the  United  States 


18  HIGHEST  GOLD  MEDAL  AWARDS 


THE  VERDICT 


HE  PROOF  of  the  pudding  is  in  the  eating*  thereof." 
The  only  true  test  of  quality  is  in  the  product  itself.  It 
is  an    easy  matter    to    make    unsupported    claims  of 


"The  Finest  on  the  American  Market 


—  Fill  Your  Larder  With  Richelieu — Ferndale —  Batavia  Food  Products  — 


STEAMED  RICE 

1  cup  rice  2    quarts  boiling  water  1  tablespoon  salt. 

Wash  and  pick  rice.  Drop  into  boiling  water  and  boil  unttil  tender.  Drain 
and  wash  in  cold  water.  Put  in  colander  and  steam  until  dry.  Do  not  cover 
while  steaming. — Mrs.  C.  C.  Green. 

FRIED  EGG  PLANT 

Slice  about  *4  inch  thick,  let  stand  in  salt  water  V2  hour,  dry  slices  with 
cloth,  roll  in  meal  and  fry  in  hot  fat.  Summer  squash  delicious  prepared  in 
similiar  manner. — Mrs.  T.  C.  Coxc. 

BAKED  EGG  PLANT 

Use  medium-sized  egg  plant  and  bake  until  tender.  Cut  in  halves 
(lengthwise).  Hollow  out  center  and  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  butter. 
Replace  in  hull,  sprinkle  top  with  bread  crumbs  and  bit  of  butter.  Place  in 
pan  with  little  water,  return  to  oven  and  brown. — Mrs.  Thomas  C.  Coxe. 

SPICED  SWEET  POTATOES 

Boil  small  potatoes.  Make  syrup  of  two  cups  sugar  to  one  cup  water.  Add 
lA:  cup  butter,  cinnamon,  spice,  and  cloves.  Let  come  to  a  boil.  Place 
potatoes  in  pan,  pour  syrup  over  them  and  bake. — Mrs.  Henry  Little. 

SW  EET  POTATOES  WITH  ORANGE 

Boil  and  quarter  good  potatoes.  Place  layer  in  casserole,  layer  brown 
sugar  and  butter,  and  several  round  slices  of  fresh  orange.  Continue 
process  until  dish  is  filled.    Then  add  sufficient  water  and  bake. 

—Shelley  Rose. 

IRISH  OR  SWEET  FRENCH  FRIED  POTATOES 

Wash  and  pare  small  potatoes,  mt  in  six  or  eight,  lengthwise  pieces  and 
soak  one  hour  in  cold  water.  Remove  from  water,  dry  between  towels  and 
fry  in  deep  fat.  Drain  on  brown  paper  and  sprinkle  with  salt.  The  fat 
should  not  be  too  hot,  as  the  potatoes  should  cook  as  well  as  brown. 

SARATOGA  CHIPS 

Slice  potatoes  very  thin  with  a  vegetable  slicer,  and  let  stand  in  cold  water. 
Dry  between  towels,  put  in  wire  basket  and  cook  in  very  hot  deep  fat  until 
a  delicate  brown.  Remove,  place  on  brown  paper  to  drain  and  sprinkle 
with  salt.  Do  not  have  too  many  slices  in  basket  at  once,  as  this  will  cool 
the  fat.— Mrs.  L.  B.  Dawson. 

55 


•<♦>  <♦>  <♦>  <♦>  tmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm^ 

I         DR.  J.  I.  LAWSON  1 

*                         DENTIST  1 

|                     Wadesboro,  N.  C.  I 
Office  Phone  207    Residence  Phone  33  1  L 

J  The  Heart  of  the  Home  I 

YOUR  KITCHEN  —  IS  IT  MODERNIZED? 

$      Your  kitchen  should  he  as  modernized  as  your  husband's  $ 

$      office.  >j 

There  are  many  inexpensive  conveniences  that  can  be 

^      placed  in  your  kitchen  and  they  will  prove  to  be  real  Sjj 

g      helps.  g 

GARBAGE  CANS  —  PACKAGE  RECEIVERS 

BUILT-IN  CABINETS  $ 

$         BREAKFAST  NOOKS  —  IRONING  BOARDS  I 


$       It  will  be  a  pleasure  to  give  you  literature,  prices  and  $ 

&      other  information  about  modernizing  your  kitchen.  || 

Call,  Telephone   or  Write.  I 

j  Bowman  Building  Supply  Co.  | 

$             Highway  No.  20  and  Stanback  Ferry  Roads  $j 

p                         Wadesboro,  North  Carolina.  v 

$  $ 

I  ; 
|                BARRINGTON  T.  HILL 

Attorney  at  Law  § 

I 

$                        Wadesboro,  N.  C.  $ 

$            Office  Phone  164-J              Home  Phone  164-L  $ 

'♦:♦>  <♦>  <♦>  <♦>  m  <♦>  Mm^wwsMnM^mMl 


The  Best  Range  for  Cooking  —  Betty  Washington  or  Rebecca  Washington 


DEVILED  SPAGHETTI 

3  tablespoons  butter  3  tablespoons  Melrose  flour 

1  tablespoon  chopped  onion  2  cups  milk 

1  tablespoon  chopped  green  pepper  1  can  deviled  ham,  or  minced  ham 

1  minced  small  clove  of  garlic  XA  teaspoon  Worcestershire  sauce 

V2  box  cooked  spaghetti  %  cup  grated  cheese. 

Melt  butter,  add  onion  and  green  pepper,  and  cook  for  a  few  minutes.  Add 
flour  and  blend  thoroughly.  Add  milk  slowly  and  cook  until  thickened, 
stirring  constantly.  Add  ham,  sauce,  and  salt  if  necessary.  Put  spaghetti 
in  a  baking  dish,  pour  the  sauce  over  it,  and  sprinkle  with  grated  cheese. 
Bake  slowly  until  cheese  is  melted.    Serves  eight. — Mrs.  R.  B.  Hardison. 

SPAGHETTI 

1  large  box  spaghetti  %  lb.  breakfast  bacon 

1  qt.  tomatoes  %  lb.  cream  cheese. 

1  onion  and  4  large  green  peppers. 

Sauce:    Cut  peppers  in  small  pieces,  add  tomatoes,  cook  slowly  30  minutes. 

Chop  onion  and  bacon  fine,  fry  until  light  brown,  and  add  grease  and  all 
to  the  tomatoes  and  peppers.  Salt  to  taste.  Dash  red  and  black  pepper. 
Cook  spaghetti  in  salt  water  30  minutes,  drain  and  wash  in  several  cold 
waters  to  avoid  sticking.  Add  to  tomato  sauce,  cook  slowly  10  minutes,  add 
cheese  cut  fine,  and  remove  from  stove  as  soon  as  it  melts.  Use  large  vessel 
and  cook  on  top  of  stove. — Mrs.  David  Browder. 

SWEET  POTATO  SURPRISE 

Delicious  with  fried  chicken  or  cold  meat  for  luncheon  or  dinner.  Can  be 
fried  any  time  and  reheated  in  the  oven  at  mealtime  or  even  the  next  day. 

2  cups  riced  sweet  potatoes  %  cup  crushed  corn  flakes 
1  egg  well  beaten                                8  marshmallows 

Dash  of  red  pepper  V2  teaspoon  salt 

Boil  and  peel  potatoes  and  put  through  ricer.  When  cool  add  egg,  salt  and 
pepper.  If  mixture  is  too  dry  add  a  little  sweet  milk.  Flour  hands  if 
necessary  and  form  into  8  round  balls  with  one  marshmallow  hidden  in  the 
center  of  each.  Roll  in  the  corn  or  bran  flakes  that  have  been  finely 
crushed  and  fry  in  hot  Crisco.    Fry  until  nicely  brown  and  drain  on  oil  paper. 

—Mrs.  R.  T.  B.  Little. 


57 


Phone  52 


Well  Kept 
Food 

There  is  one  thing 
that  will  keep  food, 
and  you  can  depend 
upon  it — Ice.  There 
is  nothing  to  get  out 
of  order,  break  down 
or  refuse  to  work 
about  ice.  It  does  the 
work  quietly  and  ef- 
ficiently. 


WADESBORO 

ICE  and  FUEL  CO. 

YOU  NEED  WHAT  WE  SELL 

SUMMER  and  WINTER. 


The  Best  Range  for  Cooking  — 


Betty  Washington  or  Kehecca  Washington 


breads 

BEATEN  BISCUIT 

IV2  pounds  Melrose  flour  2  teaspoons  salt 

8  oz.  lard  4  tablespoons  sugar 

V2  pound  liquid  (two-thirds  milk)       Pinch  of  Royal  baking  powder. 

Roll  until  dough  blisters.    Cut  in  small  biscuit  and  bake  in  moderate  oven. 

— Grace  Allen. 


SPOON  BREAD 


1  pint  sweet  milk  1  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  corn  meal  2  eggs 

Butter  size  of  an  egg. 

Make  mush  by  sprinkling  meal  in  hot  milk.  Let  cool,  add  eggs  and  butter, 
cook  in  oven  40  minutes. — Mrs.  Myrtle  Bridger. 


MEAL  MUFFINS 


1  pint  of  sifted  water  ground  meal     2  eggs 

1    pint  of  buttermilk  Salt  to  taste 

1  teaspoonful  of  soda  1  large  tablespoon  melted  lard 

Mix.    Add  soda  just  before  cooking  in  muffin  tins  in  hot  oven. 

—Mrs.  T.  L.  Caudle. 


CORN  BREAD  STICKS 


1  qt.  meal  Enough  water  to  make  batter  soft 
V2  cup  Melrose  flour  1  teaspoon  salt 

2  eggs  1  teaspoon  Royal  baking  powder 
1  cup  sour  milk  V2  teaspoon  soda 

V2  cup  shortening 

Sift  together  meal,  flour,  and  other  dry  ingredients.  Add  well  beaten 
eggs,  water,  milk,  and  melted  shortening  to  this  and  beat  thoroughly.  Pour 
in  well  greased  hot  irons  and  bake. — Miss  Pansy  Staton. 

NUT  BREAD 

1  cup  sugar  1  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  raisins  3  cups  flour 

3  teaspoons  Royal  baking  powder        1XA  cups  sweet  milk 

1  cup  black  walnut  or  pecan  meats. 

Mix  and  bake  in  moderate  oven  in  loaf. — Mrs.  W.  E.  Carpenter. 


59 


BANK  OF  PEACHLAND 

PEACHLAND,  N.  C. 

Your  banking  business  invited.  Careful  atten- 
tion to  wants  of  all  customers,  large  or  small. 

MAY  D.  RKDFERN,  President, 
H.  M.  BAUCOM,  Vice-President, 
J.  T.  BRITT,  Cashier. 


THE  HOUSEWIFE  AND  HER  HOME 

This  is  for  the  housewife.  She  spends  the  biggest  part  of  her 
time  in  the  home — and  making  it  a  cheerful  place  in  which  to 
live  is  one  of  her  greatest  pleasures. 

Bright,  cheery  homes  make  for  happiness  and  contentment. 
And  about  the  house  are  so  many  places  that  can  be  brightened 
up.  There's  the  cracked  piece  of  furniture,  the  marred,  the 
scuffed-up  floor,  the  dull  looking  kitchen  cabinet,  the  interior 
of  the  summer  kitchen — and  many  other  odds  and  ends. 

It's  a  simple  matter  to  brighten  up. 

SHERWIN  -  WILLIAMS 
PAINTS  &  VARNISHES 

Floor-Lac,  Enemeloid,  Family  Paint,  are  inexpensive  and  make 
a  surprising  difference  ir..  your  home. 

SOLD  BY 

STANBACK- GRAY  HARDWARE  CO, 


Everything 

Conveniently 

Arranged 


Your 


Selection. 


GROCERIES 
MEATS  FRUITS 
VEGETABLES 


Once  a  Customer  — 
Always  a  Customer. 


The  Best  Range  for  Cooking  —  Betty  Washington  or  Rebecca  Washington 


BOSTON  BROWN  BREAD 


V2  cup  brown  sugar  1  teaspoon  soda 

1  cup  sour  milk  %  teaspoon  salt 

2  tablespoons  molasses  1  cup  raisins 

%  cup  nuts. 


Sufficient  quantity  of  graham  and  white  flour  (using  twice  the  quantity 
of  graham)  to  make  dough  of  proper  consistency.  Bake  in  loaf  about  3 
hours. — Mary  Allen  Huntley. 


RUSK 

3  eggs  2  quarts  Melrose  flour 

2  cups  of  sugar  1  cup  of  butter  and  lard  mixed 

2  cups  of  sweet  milk  2  cakes  Fleischmann  yeast. 


Scald  the  milk.  Dissolve  yeast  in  V2  cup  of  tepid  water,  beat  eggs  light, 
add  1  cup  of  sugar,  then  cooled  milk  and  yeast,  then  flour.  Let  it  rise  at 
night  in  warm  place,  and  in  the  morning  add  to  the  sponge  1  cup  of  sugar, 
the  butter  and  lard  and  flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff  dough;  let  rise  again 
and  when  light  (doubled  in  bulk)  mould  and  bake  as  other  rolls. 

—Mrs.  T.  L.  Caudle. 


LUNCH  ROLLS 


1  cake  Fleischmann's  yeast  2  tablespoons  butter  (heaping) 

\\i  cup  milk  1  egg 

1  tablespoon  sugar  1  teaspoon  salt 

Flour  to  make  a  stiff  dough. 

Scald  milk,  add  sugar,  salt,  and  butter.  When  lukewarm,  add  yeast  cake 
dissolved  in  %  cup  water,  and  well  beaten  egg.  Pour  into  bowl,  and  add 
enough  flour  (about  3  cups)  to  make  a  sponge.  Set  in  warm  place,  and 
allow  to  rise  for  2  or  3  hours.  When  light,  add  enough  flour  that  dough  can 
be  kneaded.  Cut  and  fold  in  center,  place  one-half  inch  apart  in  well  greased 
pans.    When  double  their  bulk,  bake  in  hot  oven. — Mrs.  W.  L.  McKinnon. 

DENVER  BISCUITS 


1  pt.  sweet  milk  scalded  and  cooled 
1  yeast  cake  dissolved    in  V2  ?up 

water 
V2  cup  lard 
%  cup  sugar 


V2  cup  mashed  Irish  potatoes 
1  teaspoon  salt 
1  teaspoon  soda 

V2  teaspoon  Royal  baking  powder 
7  cups  flour. 


Mix  to  medium  soft  dough,  place  in  bowl,  grease  over  the  top.  Let  Ase 
until  doubled  in  bulk.  Knead  and  make  out  into  rolls.  Let  stand  from  1  to 
]  V2  hours  in  warm  place.  Bake  in  rather  hot  oven  about  fifteen  to  twenty 
minutes. — Mrs.  J.  H.  Mclver. 


61 


*  QUALITY  1 

Family  Washing  | 

I     ANSON  LAUNDRY  I 

|           Salisbury  St.  Wadesboro,  N.  C.  $ 

§                                 Phone  No.  159  | 

•:♦>  mmmmmmm^  <♦>  >:«<.<^:;^>d^ 

>           •:♦>  •:♦>  ♦:«*  •:♦>           •:♦>:                m  m  •»  -:^>  j 

#  $ 

I                              "CW*w  a/        South"  I 


5*5 

i 

ft 


The  Velvet  Kind 


ICE  CREAM 


The  De  Luxe  Pint  Package 
for  Dainty  Serving  —  at 
your  nearest  dealer.  Al- 
ways the  flavors  of  the 
moment.  Fancy  molds  and 
special  orders  on  shore 
notice. 

Southern  Dairies 

ALBEMARLE.  N.  C. 


v^-*  %S5V   %^»'  vVV  '^j>*    %^>*    V^o'  \SV   \*»*  %w/ 


THE  HUNTLEY  COMPANY  § 

The  Home  of  Good  Groceries  $ 

When  in  need  of  Groceries,  Phone  75  —  Quick  Ser  vice.  s$ 

We  arc  Exclusive  Dealers  for  White  Rose  Brand  goods.  k 

COFFEE  AND  TEA  | 

QUALITY  AND  SERVICE  IS  OUR  MOTTO 

Wadesboro,  N.  C.  | 


The  Best  Range  for  Cooking  —  Betty  Washington  or  Rebecca  Washington 


ROLLS 

1  cake  Fleischmann's  yeast  y2  cup  lard 

Vz  cup  sugar  1  y2  teaspoons  salt 

3  cups  lukewarm  water  6  cups  flour 

Dissolve  yeast  and  sugar  in  warm  water.  Let  stand  about  10  minutes. 
Sift  flour  and  salt  together,  add  lard,  knead  well  into  flour,  then  use  the 
liquid  to  make  soft  dough.  Knead  well  until  smooth,  put  dough  in  greased 
bowl  and  grease  dough  on  top  and  let  stand  in  cool  place  overnight,  then 
knead  down  and  put  in  warm  place  to  rise  again.  Make  out  rolls  2V&  hours 
before  time  to  cook.  Make  out  rolls,  put  in  greased  pans,  grease  on  top  and 
let  rise  to  twice  their  bulk.    Bake  in  moderate  oven.-  -  Mrs.  W.  H.  Carter. 

TEA  SCONES 

V2  pound  flour  2  teaspoons  butter 

1  tablespoon  Sultanas  2  teaspoons  Royal  baking  powder 

2  teaspoons  sugar  Sweet  milk  to  make  a  soft  dough 

Pinch  of  salt. 

Mix  flour,  sugar,  baking  powder,  salt,  rub  in  butter,  add  floured  raisins 
and  milk  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Roll,  shape  in  mounds  about  the  size  of 
saucer.  Divide  each  mound  into  four  sections  with  back  of  knife.  Bake  in 
hot  oven  about  10  minutes. — Mrs.  J.  F.  Hamaker. 

EVERLASTING  ROLLS 

1    qt.  sweet  milk  V2  cup  sugar.  1  cupful  lard 

Bring  to  boiling  point,  remove  from  fire,  when  lukewarm,  dissolve  in  it  1 
cake  commercial  yeast.  Sift  in  enough  flour  to  make  consistency  of  cake 
batter,  about  a  heaping  quart.  Put  in  warm  place  two  hours.  Then  sift  1 
tablespoonful  salt,  1  rounded  teaspoonful  soda,  1  heaping  teaspoonful  baking- 
powder.  Work  in  about  1  quart  of  flour  or  until  you  can  handle  the  dough. 
Shape  or  roll  and  cut  as  many  rolls  as  you  wish  for  that  meal.  Set  in  warm 
ptece  to  rise  two  hours  before  baking.  Put  remainder  of  dough  in  ice  box 
or  some  cool  place  as  it  will  keep  a  week  or  more. 

— Corinne  Horne  Leath,  Rockingham,  N.  C. 

SALT  RISING  BREAD 

Seven  tablespoons  sweet  milk  brought  to  boiling  point.  Stir  in  meal  to 
make  stiff  batter  overnight.    Next  morning  take, 

1  cup  sweet  milk  2  teaspoons  sugar 

1  cup  hot  water  %  teaspoon  salt 

Pinch  of  soda. 

Add  enough  flour  to  make  stiff  batter.  Then  add  meal  and  milk  scalded 
the  night  before.  Keep  same  temperature  until  it  rises.  Then  add  V6  tea- 
spoon salt.    Make  into  loaves,  let  rise  and  bake. — Mrs.  J.  M.  Wall. 


63 


GOOD  COOKS 

Can't  do  better  than  to  buy  their  Heavy 
and  Fancy  Groceries  From 
J.  L.  LITTLE  &  CO. 
Morven,  N.  C. 


Hardison  Brothers 
Company 

MORVEN,  N.  C. 

Cotton   -   -  Fertilizers 

GENERAL  MERCHANDISE 


Plumbing  &  Healing 

D.  C.  TARLTON 

Dealer  and  Contractor  in  High  Grade 
Plumbing  and  Heating. 
Phone  No.  I  58  Wadesboro,  N.  C. 


The  Best  Range  for  Cooking  —  Betty  Washington  or  Rebecca  Washington 

BIRTHDAY  BREAD 

Place  risen  bread  dough  in  pie  pan  about  V>  inch  thick.  With  fore  finger 
make  holes  in  dough  and  fill  with  following: 

1  cup  brown  sugar  1  teaspoon  cinnamon.  y2  cup  butter 

Cream  filling  thoroughly,  fill  holes,  and  set  aside  for  one  hour.  Bake  in 
moderate  oven  and  slice  as  pie. — Mrs.  Z.  V.  Walser,  Lexington,  N.  C. 

ROSE  GEMS 


1  egg 

1  cup  sweet  milk 

1  tablespoon  butter 

1  tablespoon  sugar 


2  cups  Melrose  flour 

3  cups  sweet  milk 

Mix  all  ingredients  and  beat  well, 
bake  quickly. — Miss  Alice  Little. 


Vz  teaspoon  salt 

One   and   two-thirds   cups  Melrose 
flour 

2  teaspoons  Royal  baking  powder 
— Shelley  Horne  Rose. 


Have  greased  muffin  rings  hot,  and 


FLOUR  MUFFINS 


4  well  beaten  eggs 
Pinch  of  salt. 


TWIN  MOUNTAIN  MUFFINS 

4  tablespoons  butter  1  egg 

1  teaspoon  sugar  V2  teaspoon  salt 

2  cups  Melrose  flour  3  teaspoons  Royal  baking  powder 

1  cup  milk. 

Melt  the  butter,  add  sugar  and  egg.  Sift  salt,  flour  and  baking  powder 
together  and  add  to  this.  Add  the  milk  and  beat  smooth.  Bake  in  greased 
tins  about  20  minutes. — Mrs.  G.  S.  Ledbetter. 

CREAM  MUFFINS 

IV2  cups  Melrose  flour  2  eggs 

One-third  teaspoon  salt  cup  melted  butter 

IV2  teaspoons  Royal  baking  powder       Two-thirds  cup  thin  cream 

1  teaspoon  sugar. 

Sift  together  the  flour,  sait,  baking  powder  and  sugar,  add  yolks  of  eggs, 
butter,  and  cream.  Beat  well,  then  fold  in  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  eggs.  Put 
in  greased  muffin  pans  and  bake  about  20  minutes  in  moderate  oven. 

— Grace  Allen. 


65 


r  *■  *►  f  f  r  *  *  *  f 


THE  VALUE 


M  of  a  good  recipe — that  value  insures  never-varying  satisfaction 

$  in  the  preparation  of  good  things  to  eat  and  their  wholesome,  & 

>^  healthful  enjoyment — always  is  enhanced  by  the  use  of  superior  w 

\  ingredients.  \ 

1  I 

>4  The  purity  and  uniformity  of  strength  of  spices  and  extracts—-  \ 

v  Y 

%  sweetness    and    flavor    of    syrups    and    molasses — dependable  \ 

A  qualities  of  baking  powders — fineness  of  texture  of  flours,  etc.,  m 

must  be  given  careful  consideration  if  desired  results  are  to  be  g 

<f  obtained.  \ 


RICHELIEU  I 
FERN DELL  &  BAT A VI A 

FOOD  PRODUCTS  | 

I 


^       are  packed  solely  on  a  quality  basis.    They  are  the  result  of  |fc 
more  than  fifty  years'  constant  endeavor  to  produce,  by  careful 
selection  and  scientific  methods,  a  complete  line  of  foods  which  O 


are  distinctly  superior.  x 

g 

Every  article  packed  under  these  brands  will  be  found  uniformly 

dependable  and  their  continued  use  will  bring  pleasure  to  the  \ 

most  discriminating  consumers.  & 

*   SPRAGUE,  WARNER  &  COMPANY  1 

I                              Chicago.  I 

&  a 


The  Last  Word  in  Refrigeration— GENERAL  ELECTRIC  REFRIGERATORS 


WAFFLES 

Wz  cups  Melrose  flour  iy2  cups  milk 

2  teaspoons  Royal  baking  powder         2  eggs 

V2  teaspoon  salt  y2  cup  melted  butter. 

Sift  dry  ingredients.  Add  milk  and  egg  yolks  beaten  together.  Beat  until 
smooth  and  add  butter  slowly.    Lastly,  add  stiffly  beaten  whites. 

—Mrs.  H.  G.  Clark. 

BREAD  OMELETS 

IV2  cups  bread  crumbs  y2  teaspoon  salt 

Y2  cup  boiling  water  4  eggs 

1  cup  sweet  milk  1  tablespoon  butter 

Black  pepper. 

Fry  like  batter  cakes,  only  roll  instead  of  turn.  Use  a  very  little  lard 
in  frying  pan. — Miss  Nancy  L.  Little. 

QUICK  SALLY  LUNN 

1  scant  cup  sugar  Salt  as  for  biscuits 

V2  cup  butter  or  Crisco  Flour  enough  to  make  consistence 

3  eggs  of  cake  batter — Melrose 

1  cup  milk  2  teaspoons  Royal  baking  powder 

Mix  cream,  sugar  a!hd  shortening.  Beat  in  eggs  one  at  the  time.  Then 
alternate  with  milk  and  flour  and  last  add  baking  powder — Royal.  Bake 
in  spout  pan.    Serve  hot  with  good  butter. — Mrs.  Elliot  Boswell. 

DELICIOUS  RISEN  SALLY  LUNN 

1  qt.  flour — Melrose  V2  cup  sugar 

2  eggs  beaten  light  Salt  as  for  biscuits 
V2  cup  butter  and  lard  mixed  1  yeast  cake. 

If  too  stiff,  use  a  little  milk.  Beat  in  a  bowl  and  set  aside  to  rise.  When 
risen,  beat  up  and  put   in  your  muffin  tins  and  let  rise  again  and  bake. 

—Mrs.  Elliot  Boswell. 

CHEESE  STRAWS 

3  oz.  grated  cheese  2  oz.  Melrose  flour 
2  oz.  butter  Yolk  of  one  egg. 

Mix  into  stiff  paste.  Add  salt  and  cayenne  pepper  to  taste.  Bake  in 
moderate  oven. — Mrs.  T.  C.  Coxe. 


67 


^se<  m&-  <♦> ' -mm.  mm  x«x  :<ox     :^x  mm  mm  mm  mm  sax     :  <*x  >»> : 


FRIGIDINE 

The  Cool  Method 
Plain  Shampoo  50c  —  6  Facial  Treatments  $5.00 

MRS.  R.  K.  PENNINGTON 


3  1 1  A forgan  St. 


Phone  31  J. 


■m      m  m  m.  m  ma  m>  m  m  xi  m  m.  m  mmmmm 


THE  BANK  OF  ANSON 


Our  institution  is  here  for  the  convenience  of  the  public 
at  large. 

Our  motto  is  Safety,  Service  and  Satisfaction. 

When  in  need  of  service  that  any  bank  gives,  come  to 
our  Bank. 

Your  patronage  certainly  will  be  appreciated. 


THE  BANK  OF  ANSON 


ANSONVILLE,  X.  C. 


3 


mm  -mm.  mm  mm;  mm  mm  x^x  mm  -mm.  mm  mm  mm  :xax  :m<  ,m<  mm 
•:♦>  mmmmm  m  m  %mmm  <*>  w^^^g. 

SOCIETY  BRAND  CLOTHES 
DOBBS  HATS, 
ENRO  SHIRTS, 
Preferred  by  many  men. 
You'll  always  find  a  lot  of  new 
x   and  interesting  things  in  men's 
wear  at 

BRASINGTON'S,  Inc., 
'The  Men's  Store." 

mcmm.mmmmm^mmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm^  <♦>•  m 


The  Lasl  Word  in  Refrigeration — GENERAL  ELECTRIC  REFRIGERATORS 


FRITTERS 


2  cupfuls  Melrose  flour  S  tablespoonfuls  sugar 

3  teaspoonfuls  Royal  baking  povvd-      V2  teaspoonful  salt 
er  2  eggs — separated 

4  tablespoonfuls  corn  starch  V2  cup  milk 

2  tablespoonfuls  butter 

Mix  flour,  baking  powder,  salt  and  sugar  and  sift  three  times.  Add 
beaten  yolk  and  milk  alternately  to  flour  mixture;  then  add  butter  and 
beat  until  smooth.  Finally,  fold  in  stiffly  beaten  egg  white.  Drop  by 
spoonfuls  into  plenty  of  hot,  but  not  smoking  fat.  Fry  golden  brown,  and 
lay  on  absorbent  paper. 

Use  this  batter  for  plain  fritters  and  for  fruit  and  sweet  fritters  of  all 
kinds.    In  using  vegetables  omit  the  sugar. — Mrs.  Henry  Little. 


COLD  BISCUIT  CAKES 


1  egg  beaten  light  1  teaspoon  sugar 

2  cups  milk  2  cups  Melrose  flour 

1  tablespoon  melted  lard  y2  cup  grated  bread  crumbs 

1  teaspoon  soda  xk  teaspoon  salt 

1  teaspoon  Royal  baking  powder. 


Mix  all  ingredients,  adding  bread  crumbs  last.  If  too  thick,  thin  with 
sweet  milk. — Miss  Anna  Boggan. 

BATTER  BREAD 

1  cup  yellow  or  white  corn  meal  2  eggs 

2  cu  :s  hot  sweet  milk  2  tablespoons  butter  or  substitute 
2  teaspoons  Royal  baking  powder       1  teaspoon  salt 

1  heaping  teaspoon  sugar  (may  be  omitted.) 

Pour  hot  milk  over  meal  and  salt,  let  stand  until  cold,  then  add  melted 
butter  and  well  beaten  eggs.  Sift  in  baking  powder,  mixing  it  thoroughly 
but  quickly.    Do  not  bake  too  quickly. — Mrs.  W.  N.  Jeans. 


69 


WADESBORO  PLUMBING 
&  HEATING  CO. 

A.  L.  TAYLOR,  Proprietor 

All  Orders  for  Plumbing  and  Heating  Promptly  Executed. 
Send  Us  Your  Orders — Work  Guaranteed — The  Best  Service. 

Office  Phone  178-J  Res.  Phone  167-J 


THE  BACKBONE 

—  THE  KEY  TO  HEALTH 

To  the  degree  that  the  vertebrae  (spinal  segments) 
of  your  backbone  have  become  out  of  alignment,  to 
that  degree  will  you  fail  to  realize  the  degree  of  health 
that  is  inherently  yours.  It  behooves  everyone  who  is 
not  enjoying  health  to  the  fullest  extent  to  have  a  Chiro- 
practor give  you  a  thorough  analysis  of  your  spine.  W e 
will  gladly  do  this  for  you  at  any  time  and  give  you  our 
candid  opinion  of  your  condition. 

DR.  A.  N.  SMITH 
Chiropractor 

Wadesboro,  N.  C. 


F.  E.  THOMAS 

Attorney  at  Law 

Wadesboro,  N.  C. 

Phone  267 


The  Last  Word  in  Refrigeration — GENERAL  ELECTRIC  REFRIGERATORS 


Salads  £jp  Salad  i>ressma,s 

JELLIED  CHICKEN 

Boil  chicken  until  tendsr  enough  to  drop  from  bone  and  has  1  pt.  extract 
left  in  kettle.  Leave  out  skin  and  giblets,  grind  meat  and  add  2  tablespoons 
lemon  juice,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  salt  and  peppsr  to  tar;te.  Pour 
boiling-  chicken  liquor  over  1  tablespoon  gelatine,  dissolved  in  V4  cup  cold 
water.  Pour  this  over  chicken  mixture  and  pour  in  mold  to  harden.  Slice 
and  serve  on  luttuce  with  mayonnaise. — Mrs.  Chas.  M.  Burns. 

STUFFED  TOMATO  SALAD 

Peel  and  hollow  out  with  sharp  knife,  sprinkle  with  salt  inside  and  out, 
turn  upside  down  on  platter  and  put  in  refrigerator  to  chill  while  draining. 
Stuff  with  either  minced  ham  or  crisped  bacon,  celery,  green  pepper,  stuffed 
olives  and  a  little  onion  juice  or  onion.  Cucumber  may  be  added  if  desired. 
Mix  with  a  little  mayonnaise  and  put  a  dab  of  mayonnaise  on  top  with  a 
sprinkle  of  paprika.    Serve  on  lettuce  leaf. — Mrs.  T.  L.  Caudle. 

POTATO  SALAD 

Three  cups  cold  diced  Irish  potatoes      %  cup  chopped  sweet  green  pep- 
V2  cup  chopped  celery  peis 
V2  cap  chopped  cucumber  pickles        V2  chopped'  onion 
Salt  and  cayenne  to  taste. 

Mixed  with  three  parts  cooked  French  dressing  and  1  part  mayonnaise 
dressing.  Top  with  dab  of  mayonnaise  and  serve  with  chilled  sliced  tomatoes 
on  crisp  lettuce  leaf. — Mrs.  T.  L.  Caudle. 

ASPARAGUS  SALAD 

Put  fresh  cooked  or  canned  asparagus  on  ice  until  cold.  Serve  on  lettuce 
with  mayonnaise  or  French  dressing. 

A  pretty  addition  is  to  slip  each  serving  through  a  ring  of  green  peppi  1 
and  add  a  long  strip  of  canned  pimiento  to  top. 

— Mrs.  Ted  Coggeshall,  Darlington,  S.  C. 

SHRIMP  SALAD 

2  cans  shrimp  12  small  chopped  pickles 

1  small  bottle  stuffed  olives  2  green  peppers,  chopped 

2  tablespoons  white  pickled  onions. 

Tomatoes  cut  in  quarters  served  on  each  plate. 

Cut  shrimp  into  small  pieces,  add  olives,  pickles,  onion  and  pepper.  Mix 
with  French  dressing  and  chill.  Serve  in  green  pepper  cups  or  on  lettuce, 
capped  with  mayonnaise.  Make  lobster  salad  same  way,  only  add  one  cup 
finely  chopped  celery. — Miss  Elizabeth  Home. 


71 


m$m  <♦>  mmmmmm.  m^mmmm.ym.mmmmmmm^:-mmym:mmmim 

*  i 


STO  G  N  E  R  '  S 


Ladies'  Work  a  Specialty. 

Phone  68-J  WADESBORO         201  W.  Wade 


|  The  Name  that  Stands  for  | 

I  GOOD  BARBERING.  I 

T  he  up-to-date  barber  shop  is  no  longer 

strictly  a  man's  shop.  It  requires  an  experi-  f 

|     enced  barber  to  produce  good  work.  | 

|  AT  STOGNER'S  1 

You  will  find  experienced  barbers  and  an 

|      up-to-date  shop — neat  and  cleanly.  | 

I  ALL  HAIR-CUTS  25c.  I 

I     STOGNER'S  1 


m 

I  I 

4 

:v: 
4 

$  * 

I  I 

«5  v 

I  I 
;  ^ 

8  <♦>."  mm  mm  -mm.  mm,  mmmmmmmm  mm  mmmm  mmmm  mmmmmmi 


The  Last  Word  in  Refrigeration— GENERAL  ELECTRIC  REFRIGERATORS 


POINSETTIA  SALAD 

Use  pimiento  for  the  petals,  strips  of  green  pepper  for  the  stems,  ami 
bits  of  cheese  mixed  with  mayonnaise  for  center.    Appropriate  for  Xmas. 

— Mrs.  W.  P.  Broome. 

STUFFED  CELERY  SALAD 

Hearts  of  celery  stuffed  with  creamed  Roquefort  cheese  and  nuts.  Serve 
on  crushed  ice. — Mrs.  J.  M.  Lytch. 

CHERRY  SALAD 

1  can  white  cherries  1  cup  nut  meats 

Seed  cherries  and  stuff  with  nuts.  Serve  on  crisp  lettuce  leaves  with 
mayonnaise  on  top. — Grace  Allen. 

FROZEN  CHEESE  SALAD 

1  pt.  cream  j  tablespoon  onion  juice 

3  pkgs.  cream  cheese  2  tablespoons  India  relish 

2  green  peppers  1  cup  nuts 

A  few  drops  of  Tabasco  and  Worcester  sauce.  Freeze.  Blend  cream 
and  cheese  and  add  other  ingredients, — Mrs.  Robert  Randolph  Simmons. 

COLD  SLAW 

One  egg  well  beaten  with  21/2  tablespoons  sugar  and  1  teaspoon  flour, 
two-thirds  cup  vinegar.  Put  on  and  cook  until  boiling,  stirring  constantly. 
When  cold,  stir  in  one-third  medium  stalk  of  celery  cut  fine,  and  V2  head 
shredded  cabbage. — Miss  Johnsie  Dunlap. 

DELICIOUS  SLAW 

1  small  white  cabbage  3  medium  red  peppers 

3  medium  green  peppers  1  large  onion 

Mayonnaise 

Cut  cabbage,  peppers  and  onion  in  strips  with  sharp  knife.  Mix  with 
mayonnaise  which  is  well  seasoned,  and  chill.— Mrs.  W.  J.  Gulledge. 

FROZEN  FRUIT  SALAD 

2  large  oranges  1  small  bottle  red  cherries 
V2  can  white  cherries  lb  almonds 

2  bananas  1  pt.  heavy  cream 

Chop  fruit  and  nuts.  Let  stand  in  French  dressing  3  hours,  drain  of  all 
juice,  mix  with  whipped  cream,  pack  in  ice  and  salt  and  let  stand  4  hours. 
Serve  with  mayonnaise.- — Mrs.  John  W.  Griggs. 


73 


ELIZABETH  GADDY,  R.  N. 

Private  Duty  Nursing 
will  answer  calls  at  anson  sanatorium 
Phone  14- J 


In  Readiness  to  Serve 

This  is  a  friendly  establishment  with  a  personnel  who 
always  hold  themselves  in  readiness  to  serve  you.  Skilled 
in  the  art  of  funeral  directing,  through  intelligent  study 
and  experience,  we  can  give  you  service  that  is  both 
tactful  and  efficient. 

You  may  entrust  us  with  all  details  of  the  funeral 
arrangements  with  the  assurance  that  everything  will 
be  given  our  personal  supervision.  This  relieves  rel- 
atives and  friends  of  trying  responsibilities  and  insures 
maximum  satisfaction. 

H.  H.  LEAVITT 

PHONE  88 
Wadesboro,  N.  C. 


M.   C.  LISK 

Attorney  at  Law 

Wadesboro,  N.  C. 

Phone  120-J 


'J 


The  Last  Word  in  Refrigeration— GENERAL  ELECTRIC  REFRIGERATORS 


OLD  FASHIONED  POTATO  SALAD 

10    large  Irish  potatoes  1  hard-boiled  eggs 

4  green  sweet  peppers  1  onion 

4  red  sweet  peppers  Mayonnaise 

Boil  potatoes  in  jackets  until  tender  enough  to  cube.  Cut  potatoes  and 
eggs  into  small  pieces.  Shave  or  grate  onion.  Use  enough  mayonnaise  to 
mix  well.    Serve  on  lettuce. — Mrs.  W.  J.  Gulledge. 

ASHEVILLE  SALAD 

1  can  tomato  soup  V2  cup  cold  water 
3  pkgs.  cream  cheese                           1  cup  mayonnaise 

2  tablespoons  gelatine  1V2  cups  chopped  celery 

Green  pepper  and  onions. 

Bring  tomato  soup  to  boiling  point  and  add  the  cream  cheese.  Stir  until 
smooth  then  add  gelatine  which  has  been  softened  in  cold  water.  When 
mixture  is  partly  cooked  add  the  mayonnaise  and  chopped  vegetables.  Nuts 
may  also  be  added.  Chill  in  one  large  mold  or  small  ones  and  serve  in  slices 
on  lettuce  garnished  with  olives  and  mayonnaise. — Mrs.  R.  E.  Little,  Jr. 


LETTUCE  ROLLS 

1  head  lettuce  V2  cup  chopped  nut  meats 

1  cupful  cottage  cheese  V2  cup  mayonnaise 

V2  cup  seedless  raisins,  chopped  Pinch  of  salt. 

Mix  all  ingredients  together,  use  larger  leaves  of  lettuce  to  spread  mixture 
on  and  roll  up  like  jelly  roll.  This  makes  about  twelve  rolls.  If  wished, 
these  may  be  garnished  with  nasturtium  blossoms. — Mrs.  Elliot  Boswell,  Va. 

PINEAPPLE  BAVARIAN  SALAD 

1  can  No.  2  crushed  pineapple  1  envelope  plain  gelatine 

1  cup  sugar  Juice  of  one  lemon. 

Boil  pineapple  and  sugar  together  for  five  minutes.    Dissolve  gelatine  in 
cup  of  cold  water,  add  one  cup  boiling  water,  juice  of  the  lemon,  and  pinch 
of  salt.    Add  pineapple,  and  when  the  mixture  begins  to  congeal,  add 
pint  cream,  not  whipped,  and  %  lb.  grated  cheese. — Mrs.  J.  W.  Massemore. 

FRUIT  SALAD  SPECIAL 

6  medium  sized  apples,  diced  1  large  can  pineapple,  drained 

1  cup  celery,  diced  V2  pound  chopped  dates 

2  tablespoons  mayonnaise  1  pint  raspberry  or  strawberry 
One-third  cup  chopped  nut  meats  Jell-0         V2  pint  whipped  cream 

V2  pint  whipped  cream. 
Mix  apples,  celery,  pineapple,  dates,  mayonnaise,  and  a  fourth  of  the 
whipped  cream.    Arrange  alternately  with  stiffened  gelatine  and  the  reast 
of  the  whipped  cream  in  a  salad  bowl.    Spread  cream  on  top  and  sprinkle 
with  nut  meats. — Mrs.  J.  H.  Tice. 


75 


v 


•«►>  <♦>'  <♦;♦  <♦>.  <♦>  •<♦>  <♦>  -<♦>  w\WTOw:wvw:w:aNgf 


Scoggins  Memorial  Art  Shop 

Largest  and  Most  Modern  Plant 
In  the  Carolinas. 

Charlotte  Marble  &  Granite  Works 

Cemetery  Gate 

West  Seventh  St.  and  Southern  R.  R. 

Charlotte,  N.  C. 

Phone  Hemlock  281 


USE  ROYAL  BAKING  POWDER  TO  OBTAIN  BEST  RESULTS   


TOMATO  JELLY  ASPIC 


1  envelope  unflavored  gelatine 
1  can  tomatoes 
Mj  onion 

1  teaspoon  celery  seed  or 
1  cup  chopped  celery 


2  tablespoons  Tarragon  vinegar 

1  bay  leaf 

2  cloves 

Dash  cayenne  and  allspice 
Sugar  to  taste. 


Add  V2  cup  cold  water  to  the  gelatine  and  set  aside  to  soften.  Cook  all 
ingredients  together  ten  minutes,  with  the  exception  of  the  gelatine  and 
vinegar.  Pour  into  molds  (which  have  been  rinsed  in  cold  water)  and  let 
stand  over  night.    Serve  in  nest  of  lettuce  leaves  with  mayonnaise. 

—Mrs.  C.  H.  Sutherland. 

GINGER  ALE  SALAD 

Soak  2  tablespoons  granulated  gelatine  in  2  tablespoons  cold  water,  and 
dissolve  in  one-third  cup  boiling  water.  Then  add  %  cup  lemon  juice,  2  cups 
sugar,  a  few  grains  salt  and  1  cup  ginger  ale.  Let  stand  until  mixture 
begins  to  set,  and  fold  in  one-third  cup  malaga  grapes,  skinned,  seeded  and 
cut  in  halves,  one-third  cup  celery,  cut  in  slices  crosswise,  one-third  cup  of 
apples  cut  fine,  2  tablespoons  Canton  ginger,  cut  in  small  pieces,  and  4 
tablespoons  canned  pineappla  cut  in  small  cubes.  Pour  in  mold,  chill  and 
turn  on  serving  dish  and  garnish  with  lettuce,  curled  celery,  and  cream 
mayonnaise  dressing. — Mrs.  E.  S.  Ashe. 

JEWEL  SALAD 

1  envelope  Knox  gelatine  M  cup  vinegar 

1  cup  cucumber  XA  cup  sugar 

1  cup  sliced  canned  pineapple  Two-thirds  cup  pineapple  syrup 

XA  cup  cold  water  1  tablespoon  vinegar 

XA  cup  boiling  water  1  tablespoon  lemon  juice 

Pinch  salt. 

Pare,  chop  and  drain  cucumber  and  pineapple.  Dissolve  gelatine  (which 
has  been  soaked  in  cold  water)  in  boiling  water.  Add  other  ingredients  and 
turn  into  mold. — Miss  Elizabeth  D.  Horne. 

MARION  CLUB  SALAD 

1  quart  cream  V2  lb.  blanched  almonds 

1  quart  mayonnaise  1  teaspoon  salt 

1  box  Knox  gelatine  1  can  Royal  Anne  cherries 

%  cup  sugar  2  cans  sliced  pineapple. 

Soak  each  envelope  of  gelatine  in  a  cup  of  pineapple  juice  5  minutes. 
Add  1  pint  boiling  water.  Add  sugar  and  put  in  cool  place.  Whip  cream 
stiff  and  place  on  ice.  Cut  pineapple  and  almonds  in  small  pieces,  and  seed 
cherries.  As  soon  as  gelatine  begins  to  congeal  add  in  the  following:  cream, 
mayonnaise,  cherries,  pineapple,  almonds  and  salt.  Serve  with  mayonnaise. 
Will  serve  twenty. — Mrs.  C.  S.  Brasington. 


77 


  USE  ROYAL  BAKING  POWDER  TO  OBTAIN  BEST  RESULTS 


C  H  E V  RO  L  ET 

BETTER  IN  EVERY  WAY 
BEAUTIFUL  AND  DEPENDABLE 
Why  not  have  a  Demonstration  Today? 

COOKE-CHEVROLET  CO, 

WADESBORO,  N.  C. 


FRUIT  SALAD  NO.  1 

1  can  sliced  pineapple  or  pear  Vz  lb  shelled  pecans 

1  lb.  white  grapes  V2  lb.  marshmallows 

Cut  up  pineapple,  grapes  (cherries  may  be  substituted)  and  marshmallows. 
Drain  off  juice  and  combine  with  the  following  dressing  3  hours  before 
serving: 

Dressing 

Juice  of  two  oranges  2  eggs 

Juice  of  two  lemons  2  tablespoons  corn  starch 

2  tablespoons  sugar. 

Mix  well  with  beaten  eggs  and  cook  carefully  (in  double  boiler)  until  it 
thickens.   When  cold  add  one  half  pint  of  cream  whipped. — Mrs.  W.  O.  Goode. 

FRUIT  SALAD  NO.  2 

1  can  peaches  or  apricots  1  package  gelatine 

1  can  pineapple  1  can  white  cherries 

Marsh  mallows. 

Place  in  large  pan,  1  layer  pineapple,  1  layer  peaches  or  apricots,  1  layer- 
white  cherries,  1  layer  chopped  marshmallows.  Pour  over  all  gelatine  made 
by  recipe  on  package,  only  using  fruit  juice  instead  of  water.  Leave  in  the 
refrigerator  until  congealed. 

Salad  Dressing 

1  cup  sweet  milk  V2  teaspoon  salt 

1  tablespoon  sugar  G  tablespoons  Wesson  oil 

1  tablespoon  Melrose  flour  M  cup  vinegar 

V2  tablespoon  mustard  3  egg  yolks. 

Beat  egg  yolks  and  Wesson  oil  as  for  mayonnaise,  add  all  other  ingredients 
except  vinegar,  set  on  stove,  stir  until  it  come  to  boiling  point.  Pour  m 
hot  vinegar,  stir  constantly,  and  let  boil  a  few  minutes.  Remove  from  fire 
and  set  aside.  Just  before  serving,  add  V2  cup  whipped  cream,  beat  until 
smooth.    When  put  on  fruit  salad,  shake  a  little  paprika  on  dressing. 

—Mrs.  G.  K.  Craig. 


7  s. 


  USE  ROYAL  BAKING  POWDER  TO  OBTAIN  BEST  RESULTS   


SALMON  SALAD 


V2  tablespoon  salt 

¥2  tablespoon  mustard 

1  tablespoon  sugar 

!4  tablespoon  Melrose  flour 

1  can  salmon 


1  egg 

%  cup  milk 
M  cup  vinegar 

V2   tablespoon   gelatine,  soaked  in 
%  cup  water 


Mix  dry  ingredients,  add  milk  and  egg.  Beat  slightly.  Put  over  hot 
water,  add  vinegar  slowly,  and  cook  until  thick  like  custard.  Add  soaked 
gelatine,  dissolve  and  then  add  salmon,  from  which  skin  and  bone  has  been 
removed.  Diced  celery  can  be  added  if  desired.  Mold,  and  serve  on  bed  of 
lettuce  leaves,  garnished  with  cucumber  and  tomato  sections. 

—Mrs.  H.  H.  Leavitt. 


CHICKEN  SALAD 


Dice  one  well  cooked  and  seasoned  hen.  Add  one-third  as  much  chopped 
celery  and  thoroughly  mix  with  French  dressing.  Let  chill.  Top  same  with 
mayonnaise  and  serve  on  crisp  lettuce  leaf. 

Cooked  French  Dressing  for  Chicken  Salad 

2  eggs  1  level  teaspoon  salt 

1    level  tablespoon  dry  mustard  V2  cup  vinegar 

1  heaping  tablespoon  sugar  1  cup  milk 

1  heaping  tablespoon  flour  Butter  size  of  an  egg. 

Thoroughly  mix  dry  ingredients,  beat  yolks  of  eggs  until  light  and  add 
vinegar.  Carefully  smooth  in  dry  ingredients  after  which  add  milk;  put  in 
double  boiler  and  let  thicken  to  the  consistency  of  boiled  custard.  Add  butter 
and  fold  in  the  whites  well  beaten.  Chill.  This  is  enough  dressing  for  a 
large  hen. — Mrs.  T.  L.  Caudle. 


DEVILED  EGGS 

Hard  boil  eggs,  cut  lengthwise  and  remove  yolks,  mix  with  highly  seasoned 
mayonnaise.  Sprinkle  halved  whites  with  salt,  refill  with  yolks,  and  place 
stuffed  olive  in  center.  Or,  season  yolks  with  melted  butter,  vinegar,  and  a 
pinch  of  mustard  and  celery  seed.    Ground  ham  added  makes  a  tasty  change 

— Mrs.  Walter  Rose. 


TOMATO  WITH  STUFFED  PEPPER  SALAD 

Remove  seed  from  3  medium  sized  green  peppers,  leaving  clean,  unbroken 
shells;  run  V2  pound  of  plain  cheese  and  XA  pound  of  pecan  meats  through 
meat  grinder.  Rub  smooth  with  enough  thick  cream  to  make  a  stiff  paste, 
season  well  with  salt  and  red  pepper  and  press  firmly  into  pepper  shells, 
filling  them  very  hightly.  Place  directly  on  ice  for  several  hours,  slice  and 
serve  on  lettuce  leaves  with  slices  of  tomatoes. — Mrs.  T.  L.  Caudle. 


79 


  USE  ROYAL  BAKING  POWDER  TO  OBTAIN  BEST  RESULTS  


PERFECTION  SALAD 


1  envelope  Knox  gelatine  1  pt.  boiling  water 

cup  cold  water  1  cup  finely  shredded  cabbage 

V2  cup  sugar  2  cups  celery,  cut  fine 

Y2  cup  vinegar  1  cup  chicken  or  boiled  ham,  diced 

Juice  of  1  lemon  XA  cup  green  peppers,  diced 

2  large  ripe  tomatoes  cut  in  slices. 

I 

Soak  the  gelatinev water  five  minutes;  add  vinegar,  lemon  juice,  boiling 
water,  salt  and  sugar.  Strain,  and  when  beginning  to  set,  add  other 
ingredients.  Turn  into  a  mold  and  chill.  Serve  on  lettuce  leaves  with 
mavonnaise. — Mrs.  T.  C.  Coxe. 


FROZEN  FRUIT  MAYONNAISE 


3  cupfuls  cream,  whipped 

2V2  cupfuls  mixed  fruits,  as  maras- 
chino cherries,  candied  pineapple, 
oranges,  sliced  peaches,  stoned 
cherries,  etc. 


1  cupful  mayonnaise 

1  teaspoonful  powdered  sugar 

1  teaspoonful   granulated  gelatine 

2  tablespoonfuls  cold  water 
Lettuce  hearts 


Cover  the  gelatine  with  the  cold  water  and  then  set  it  over  steam  to  melt. 
Beat  into  the  mayonnaise.  Combine  this  mixture  with  the  whipped  cream 
and  powdered  sugar,  stir  in  the  fruit,  and  pour  into  a  mold  which  has  bc-tr 
rinsed  with  cold  water,  Seal  carefully,  and  bury  in  equal  parts  of  ice  and 
salt  for  four  hours.    Serve  garnished  with  lettuce  hearts  or  parsley. 

—Mrs.  Francis  E.  Liles. 


CIIANTILLY  SALAD  DRESSING 


V2  cup  lemon  juice 
1  cup  pineapple  juice 
1  teaspoon  corn  starch 


1  cu^o  orange  juice 

Yolk  of  3  eggs 

1  teaspoon  vanilla. 


Cook  in  double  boiler  until  custard  thickness.  Add  vanilla  when  cool. 
Fold  in  1  pint  cream. — Mrs.  Frank  Bennett. 


MEXICAN  MAYONNAISE 


1  cup  water  1  tablespoon  Melrose  flour 

1  tablespoon  vinegar  2  egg  yolks 

Wesson  oil  or  olive  oil. 


Put  water  and  vinegar  on  to  boil,  Add  flour  and  cook  until  thick.  Add 
('gg"  yolks  well  beaten,  and  proceed  as  in  mayonnaise,  adding  oil,  sugar,  salt, 
cayenne  and  lemon  juice. — Mrs.  W.  H.  Reddish,  Morganton,  N.  C. 


80 


 USE  ROYAL  BAKING  POWDER  TO  OBTAIN  BEST  RESULTS   


CREOLE  SALAD  DRESSING 


V2  cupful  olive  oil 

5  tablespoons  vinegar 

V2  teaspoon  powdered  sugar 

1  teaspoon  salt 


V2  tablespoon  minced  parsley 

2  tablespoons  chopped  pimientoes 

3  tablespoons  chopped  peppers 
1  tablespoon  minced  onions 


Mix  thoroughly,  let  chill  and  shake  well  before  using.  A  mason  jar  is 
best  to  shake  in.  It's  good  with  asparagus,  tomatoes,  cucumbers,  lettuce  or 
romaine  salad.    Shake  dressing  until  thick.    It  will  keep  for  weeks  on  ice. 

—Mrs.  W.  T.  Rose. 


ROQUEFORT  DRESSING 


To  three  tablespoons  of  mayonnaise  dressing  all  three-fourths  cup  of 
mashed  Roquefort  cheese.    Season  highly  with  salt  and  cayenne. 

— Mrs.  C.  N.  Ingram,  Darlington,  S.  C. 


COOKED  DRESSING  FOR  SLAW,  OR  SALADS 


1  cup  of  milk 

2  eggs 

1  tablespoon  Melrose  flour 
1  tablespoon  sugar 


V2  tablespoon  mustard 
V2  tablespoon  salt 
Celery  seed,  onion  or  garlic 
3  tablespoons  Wesson  oil 


Scald  milk.    Beat  eggs  slightly;  add  dry  ingredients  and  oil,  then  slowly 


cook  in  the  milk,  beating  well. 


When  thick,  add  hot  vinegar  to  taste. 

—Mrs.  R.  E.  Little. 


DRESSING  FOR  FRUIT  SALAD 


Juice  from  1  large  can  pineapple  2  tablespoons  butter 

2  egg  yolks  1  rounded  tablespoon  Melrose  flour 

%  cup  sugar  Juice  of  1  lemon. 

Heat  pineapple  juice.  Mix  together  egg  yolks,  sugar,  butter,  flour  and 
lemon  juice.  Pour  hot  pineapple  juice  over  this,  then  fold  in  two  well-beaten 
egg  whites.  Cook  in  double  boiler  until  thick.  When  cold,  beat  into  this 
%  pint  whipped  cream. — Mrs.  Jas.  S.  Webb. 

MAYONNAISE 

1  teaspoon  mustard  Vs  teaspoon  pepper 

1  teaspoon  salt  Vs  teaspoon  peprika 

1  egg  yolk  4  tablespoons  'lemon  juice 

IV2  cups  Wesson  oil  Dash  of  cayenne. 

Mix  dry  ingredients,  add  the  egg  yolk  and  mix  well.  Add  the  oil,  a  very 
little  at  a  time  at  first,  and  beat  constantly.  When  an  emulsion  is  made  add 
the  oil  and  lemon  juice  alternately. 


81 


BUICK  CARS   LEAD,   YEAR   AFTER  YEAR 


CREAMY  SALAD  DRESSING 


Put  into  a  double  boiler,  4  lightly  beaten  eggs,  and  Vfc  cup  each  of  vinegar 
and  water.  Stir  over  the  fire  until  thick.  Then  add  Y2  cup  butter.  Mix 
together  1  teaspoon  each  of  dry  mustard  and  sugar  and  a  pinch  of  cayenne 
pepper.  Add  a  spoonful  of  the  cooked  dressing  to  these  seasonings  and  stir 
until  smooth.  Add  balance  of  dressing  and  thoroughly  mix.  Thin  with  milk 
or  cream  as  needed.    This  will  keep  for  weeks  if  kept  in  a  cool  place. 

— Mrs.  J.  D.  Maynard. 


SALAD  DRESSING 


2  eggs  1  tablespoon  sugar 

1  pt.  milk  1  teaspoon  mustard 

1  cup  vinegar  1  teaspoon  salt 

2  tablespoons  Melrose  flour. 

Make  a  paste  of  these  ingredients  by  adding  water,  then  stir  in  2  eggs. 
Add  this  to  a  pint  of  sweet  milk,  place  on  stove,  and  when  hot,  add  1  cup 
vinegar.  Stir  constantly  until  it  thickens.  Just  before  removing  from  fire, 
add  1  tablespoon  butter  or  Wesson  oil.    This  dressing  keeps  well. 

—Mrs.  R.  P.  Lyon. 

BOILED  SALAD  DRESSING 

4  tablespoons  melted  butter  Y2  cup  vinegar 

1  tablespoon  Melrose  flour  1  teaspoon  salt 

1  tablespoon  sugar  1  teaspoon  mustard 

1  cup  milk  2  eggs 

Dash  cayenne  pepper. 

Stir  butter  and  flour  together;  add  milk,  and  let  cook  in  double  boiler 
until  quite  thick.  Beat  egg  yolks  slightly;  add  salt,  pepper,  sugar,  mustard 
and  vinegar,  stir  into  the  thickened  mixture  and  cook  until  thick  like  cream'. 
Remove  from  heat  and  pour  into  egg  whites,  beaten  stiff,  stirring  constantly. 
This  keeps  for  some  time  in  a  cool  place. — Mrs.  John  Spencer,  Walltown. 

SALAD  DRESSING 

To  Use  The  Yolks  From  Angel  Food  Cake — Cooked  Dressing 

12  egg  yolks  1  lemon 

V2  cup  vinegar  2  teaspoons  salt 

XA  cup  water  2  teaspoons  sugar 

1  qt.  Wesson  oil  1  teaspoon  mustard 

Cayenne  to  taste 

Mix  vinegar  and  water;  heat;  add  well  beaten  egg  yolks  and  cook  in 
double  boiler  until  of  the  consistency  of  cream.  When  almost  cold,  beat  in 
a  portion  of  the  Wesson  oil,  then  the  lemon  juice  and  seasoning,  and 
remainder  of  oil,  beating  continuously.  This  will  keep  for  several  weeks  in 
the  refrigerator. — Mrs.  F.  M.  Little. 


82 


BUICK   CARS   LEAD,   YEAR   AFTER  YEAR 


SALAD  DRESSINGS 
Thousand  Island  Dressing 


1  cup  mayonnaise 

2  tablespoons  Chili  sauce 


1  tablespoon  chopped  onion 
1  tablespoon  chopped  pepper 


Cucumber  Sauce 


1  cup  mayonnaise 
1  cup  whipped  cream 


1  cup  mayonnaise 


1  cup  mayonnaise 


1  cup  cucumber 
diced  and  drained 

Dressing  Tartare 

V2  cup  minced  sweet  pickle 

California  Dressing 

x/4  cup  minced  ripe  olives 
%  cup  minced  green  olives. 


Russian  Dressing 


1  cup  mayonnaise 

x/4  cup  pimientoes,  chopped 


2  tablespoons  green  pepper 
2  tablespoons  catsup 


Manhattan  Dressing 


1  cup  mayonnaise 

1  hard  cooked  egg,  chopped  fine 


1  tablespoon  capers 

1  tablespoon  sweet  pickle. 

— Mrs.  Rosalind  A.  Redfearnr. 


Yolks  of  two  eggs 
1  cup  sugar 
Juice  two  lemons 


ORANGE  DRESSING 

Grated  rind  of  1  orange 
1  tablespoon  Melrose  flour 
1  cup  boiling  water 
1  tablespoon  butter. 


Beat  yolks  thoroughly,  add  sugar,  flour,  lemon  juice  and  grated  orange. 
Add  butter  to  boiling  water,  combine  and  cook  until  thick.  Add  whipped 
cream  when  ready  to  serve. — Mrs.  R.  0.  Crawley. 


HUICK  CARS  LEAD,   YEAR  AFTER  YEAR 


San6wicl)£s 

The  secret  of  good  sandwiches  depends  largely  on  the  dressing  used  to 
mix  ingredients.  For  almost  any  mixture,  use  a  good  cooked  dressing, 
which  can  be  kept  a  long  while  in  the  ice  box.  Some  mayonnaise  should 
be  added  unless  it  is  used  in  spreading  the  sandwich. 

SURPRISE  SANDWICHES 

Use  equal  quantities  of  orange  marmalade,  pecan  nuts  and  cream  cheese. 
Mix  thoroughly  and  spread  on  bread,  with  mayonnaise  or  butter. 

CREAMED  CHEESE  SANDWICH 

Grate  cheese,  mix  well  with  boiled  dressing.  Add  chopped  nut  meats. 
This  is  especially  good  made  up  with  graham  bread. 

APPLE  AND  PEANUT  BUTTER  SANDWICH 

Use  equal  amounts  of  peanut  batter  and  tart  apple  sauce.  Beat  into  a 
paste  and  spread  on  buttered  bread. 

HOT  SANDWICHES 

Cream  cheese  with  a  little  cream  and  red  pepper,  a  little  salt  and  melted 
butter.    Put  on  bread  and  toast  quickly. 

TONGUE  SANDWICHES 

Cook  tongue  until  tender.  When  done,  skin  and  put  through  food  chopper. 
Mix  with  green  peppers,  chopped,  or  chow  chow  pickle.  Mix  with  boiled 
dressing. 

RAISIN  AND  PEANUT  SANDWICH 

Grind  a  cup  of  raisins  with  some  peanuts,  add  a  little  cream  or  melted 
butter,  spread  on  bread  with  mayonnaise.  This  sandwich  is  good  on  brown 
bread. 

TOMATO  AND  NUT  SANDWICH 

Chop  3  medium  sized  tomatoes,  add  small  green  peppers,  chopped  fine, 
and  V'i  cup  chopped  nut  meats.  Mix  with  mayonnaise,  place  on  lettuce  leaf, 
and  lay  between  thin  slices  of  white  bread,  spread  with  mayonnaise. 

DEVILED  EGG  SANDWICH 

Mash  4  hard-boiled  eggs  fine  and  season  with  boiled  dressing,  celery 
see'd,  crisp  bacon,  or  ground  ham.  A  little  pickle  may  be  added.  Spread 
bread  with  mayonnaise  and  use  mixture  as  filling. 


84 


BUICK  CARS  LEAD,    Y BAR    AFTER  YEAR 


DATE  SANDWICHES 

V2  cup  dates  y2  cup  walnut  meats 

%  cup  cream  Butter 

Spread  wheat  bread  with  butter,  mix  other  ingredients  and  fill  with  the 
mixture. 

PIMIENTO  CHEESE  SANDWICHES 

1  can  pimiento  Boiled  dressing  or  mayonnaise 

1  cup  grated  cheese  Salt  to  taste 

Chop  pimiento  fine,  add  cheese,  and  enough  dressing  to  mix  well. 

CHICKEN  SALAD  SANDWICHES 

1  cup  boiled  chicken  1  hard-boiled  egg 

Two-thirds  cup  celery  Boiled  dressing  or  mayonnaise 

Cut  chicken,  celery  and  egg  fine.  Mix  with  the  dressing.  Season  with 
salt  and  pepper. 

EGG  SANDWICHES 

1  cup  grated  cheese  1  teaspoon  celery  seed 

3  hard-boiled  eggs  Little  onion  juice,  mayonnaise,  or 

Salt  to  taste  boiled  dressing 

Mix  ingredients  and  spread  between  thin  slices  of  bread. 

HAM  AND  CHICKEN  SANDWICH 

One-third  cup  butter  1  cup  cold  chicken 

1   cup   finely   chopped   cold   boiled      Dash  of  salt 
ham  Paprika 

Cream  butter,  add  ham  and  chicken,  then  salt  and  paprika.  Mix  with 
dressing  and  spread  on  bread. 

(Above  group  of  recipes  submitted  by  Mrs.  R.  P.  Lyon.) 

A  SWEET  SANDWICH 

Three  tablespoons  lemon  juice  to  4  tablespoons  peanut  butter,  V2  cup 
chopped  pecans,  and  V2  cup  seeded  raisins  chopped  fine.  Mix  with  mayonnaise 
and  spread. — Mrs.  Frank  Ccvington. 

85 


BUICK  CARS   LEAD,   YEAR   AFTER  YEAR 


SANDWICH  FILLING 

Rind  of  1  lemon  (grated)  1  cup  mayonnaise 

Juice  of  1  lemon  3  raw  egg 

1  cup  sugar  1  cup  raisins 

1  tablespoon  butter  1  cup  nuts 

Mix  and  boil  four  minutes. — Mrs.  Fred  Helms,  Albemarle,  N.  C. 

CLUB  SANDWICH 

i 

2  slices  of  bread  2  slices  white  chicken  meat 
2  crisp  lettuce  leaves  1  slice  tomato 

2  thin  slices  of  cucumber  pickle 

Between  slices  of  bread  on  which  these  have  been  placed,  put  a  liberal 
spreading  of  mayonnaise  dressing,  and  lay  the  chicken,  cucumber  and 
tomatoes.    Press  down  and  cut  through  diagonally  with  a  sharp  knife. 

— f^rs.  Bill  Coxe,  Darlington,  S.  C. 


8<; 


 CHARLOTTE  MARBLE  &  GRANITE  WORKS  —  MONUMENTS   


ORANGE  CUSTARD  (ORIGINAL) 

1  cup  sugar  1  tablespoon  corn  starch 

2  tablespoons  sugar  Juice  of  2  lemons 

2  tablespoons  cream  Juice  and  little  grated  rind  1  orange 

Mix  ingredients  thoroughly,  cook  in  double  boiler — spread  on  baked  crusts. 
Use  4  egg  whites  for  meringue,  allowing  4  tablespoons  sugar. 

—Mrs.  J.  D.  Leak. 

BROWN  SUGAR  TARTS 

3  cups  brown  sugar  5  eggs 

1  tablespoon  boiling  water  I  lemon,  grated  rind  and  juice 

Butter  size  of  walnut  1  small  nutmeg,  grated 

Bake  in  large  or  small  pans,  lined  with  pastry,  until  pastry  browns 
and  tart  thickens. — Mrs.  R.  E.  Little,  Zr. 

SWEET  POTATO  CUSTARD 

4  eggs  2  cups  sugar 

1  cup  sweet  milk  1  cup  butter 
IV2  cups  potatoes  Nutmeg. 

Mix  ingredients  and  bake.    Save  whites  of  two  eggs  for  meringue. 

— Mrs.  Virginia  Pickett. 

CARAMEL  CUSTARD 

2  cups  brown  sugar  5  eggs 

2  tablespoons  Melrose  flour  1V2  cups  milk  14  cup  butter 

Cream  butter  and  sugar  together  and  beat  until  smooth;  add  flour  then 
beat  in  one  whole  egg  and  three  yolks,  adding  each  separately;  add  milk 
and  mix  thoroughly.  Pour  into  pie  plates  lined  with  pastry  and  bake  a 
golden  brown. 

Meringue 

4  egg  whites  beaten  stiff,  add  8  tablespoons  sugar,  and  spread  on  top  of 
pie  and  bake. — Mrs.  C.  C.  Bennett. 

LIGHT  FLUFFY  MERINGUE 

When  making  meringue  for  pie  or  pudding,  add  half  an  egg  shell  of  cold 
water  for  each  white  of  egg  before  beating.  It  will  greatly  increase  the 
quantity  and  no  difference  in  quality  can  be  detected.  Just  before  any 
meringue  is  placed  in  oven,  beat  in  a  salt  spoon  of  Royal  baking  powder. 
This  prevents  its  falling  when  taken  from  oven. 

—Mrs.  A.  D.  Griffin,  Peachland,  N.  C. 

87 


 CHARLOTTE  MARBLE  &  GRANITE  WORKS  —  MONUMENTS  


CHOCOLATE  PIE 


3  cups  sugar 

4  eggs  (beaten  separately) 
2  cups  sweet  milk 
Two-thirds  cup  butter 


2  tablespoons  corn  starch 
One-third  cake  Baker's  chocolate 
1  teaspoon  Sauer's  vanilla  extract 
Vz  teaspoon  salt. 


Mix  all  ingredients  except  egg  whites,  and  cook  to  proper  consistency  in 
double  boiler.  Pour  in  previously  baked  crust  and  cover  with  meringue 
made  of  stiffly  beaten  whites  and  2  tablespoons  sugar  to  each  white.  Set 
in  oven  and  brown  slightly. — Mary  Allen  Huntley. 

COCOANUT  PIE  NO.  1 

3  eggs  Vs  teaspoon  salt 

Two-thirds  cup  sugar  Two  thirds  cup  of  cocoanui;  milk 

1  cup  grated  cocoanut  V2  teaspoon  Sauer's  vanilla 

Beat  eggs,  add  sugar,  salt,  cocoanut,  milk  and  vanilla,  pour  into  an 
unbaked  pie  crust  and  cook  in  a  moderate  oven. — Mrs.  H.  P.  Taylor. 

COCOANUT  PIE  NO.  2 

%  cup  sugar  2  tablespoons  Melrose  flour 

2  eggs  Butter  size  of  egg. 

Cream  ingredients  together  and  cook  in  double  boiler  until  thick.  Add 
1  cup  cocoanut  and  pour  into  previously  baked  crust.  Place  pecans  broken 
in  halves  cn  top.  Spread  with  meringue  made  of  the  whites  of  two  eggs 
and  two  tablespoons  sugar,  flavored  with  almond.    Set  in  oven  and  brown. 

— Mrs.  C.  H.  Leonard. 

MOLASSES  PIE 

1  cup  molasses  2  eggs 

Two-thirds  cup  sugar  2  teaspoons  Melrose  flour 

4  taMespoons  melted  butter  %  cup  nut  meats 

2  tablespoons  lemon  juice  or  vinegar. 

Mix  all  ingredients,  line  pie  pan  with  pastry  and  bake. 

— Mrs.  K.  W.  Ashcraft 

ORANGE  PIE 

%  cup  sugar  1  tablespoon  jbutter 

*  tablespoons  Melrose  flour  3  egg  yolks 

,    iup  orange  juice  Grated  rind  of  1  orange. 

Mix  grated  rind,  sugar,  and  flour  together;  add  beaten  egg  yolks,  orange 
juice  and  butter.  Cook  in  double  boiler  until  thick.  Pour  into  baked  r  ie 
oust  and  cover  with  meringue,  made  of  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites  and  2 
tablespoons  sugar.    Set  in  oven  and  brown. — Mrs.  B.  F.  Bray. 


88 


  CHARLOTTE  MARBLE  &  GRANITE  WORKS  — 


MONUMENTS   


RAISIN  PIE 


1  cup  chopped  raisins  2  tablespoons  Melrose  flour 

Vz  cup  sugar  2  tablespoons  butter 

Juice  and  grated  rind  %  lemon. 

Cover  raisins  and  sugar  with  water  and  let  boil  until  tender,  about  10 
minutes.  Thicken  with  flour,  moistened  with  cold  water.  Add  butter, 
lemon  juice,  and  a  little  of  the  grated  rind.  Fill  baked  crust  with  mixture, 
cover  with  meringue  and  set  in  oven  to  brown. — Mrs.  H.  E.  Allen. 


TRANSPARENT  PIE 


1  cup  butter  4  eggs 

2  cups  sugar  1  lemon,  juice  and  grated  rind 

Grated  nutmeg. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  drop  in  the  eggs,  unbeaten,  one  at  a  time, 
add  lemon  and  nutmeg.  Line  two  pie  pans  with  paste,  and  fill  with  the 
mixture.    Bake.    Serve  cold. — Mrs.  J.  D.  Home. 


ALLENTOWN  PIE 


Pare,  core  and  quarter  juicy  tart  apples.  Line  pie  pan  with  pastry,  and 
put  in  apples,  neatly  and  closely  together,  covering  with  1  cup  brown  sugar, 
into  which  has  been  mixed  a  little  cinnamon.  Drop  small  piece  of  butter 
over  top  and  add  a  little  water.  Do  not  cover  with  top  crust,  but  bake  in 
slow  oven  until  apples  are  tender.  If  the  crust  bakes  before  they  are 
tender,  cover  with  an  inverted  pan  to  hasten  the  cooking  of  the  fruit. 
Cover  with  whipped  cream. — Mrs.  McLean  Leath. 


JELLY  PIE 


6  eggs  1  Glass  jelly 

1  cup  sugar  V2  cup  butter 

2  teaspoons  corn  starch  V2  cup  water 


Beat  eggs  separately,  mix  all  ingredients,  folding  in  the  stiffly  beaten 
whites  last.    Cook  in  medium  hot  oven. — Mary  Allen  Huntley. 


APPLE  PIE 


3  large  apples  1  cup  sugar 

One-third  cup  water  2  tablespoons  butter. 

Peel  apples,  slice  thin,  put  on  crust  and  pour  the  sugar  over  them.  Add 
water   and  top  crust.    When  nearly  done,  glaze  with  butter. 

— Miss  Maude  Knotts. 


Sit 


  CHARLOTTE  MARBLE  &  GRANITE  WORKS  —  MONUMENTS 


BROWN  SUGAR  PIES 

Yolks  of  7  eggs  x/z  lb.  butter 

V2  lb.  each  brown  and  white  sugar       Flavor,  if  desired 

Beat  until  free  from  lumps.    Bake  in  pie  pans  lined  with  rich  pastry. 

—Mrs.  J.  L.  Little,  Morven,  N.  C. 

i 

CHESS  PIE 

2  cups  sugar  4  eggs 

1  cup  butter  1  teaspoon  Sauer's  lemon  extract 

Beat  eggs,  add  sugar,  melted  butter,  and  extract.  Put  in  pie  pan  lined 
with  pastry  and  bake. — Mrs.  W.  F.  McQueen. 

LEMON  PIE  WITH  MERINGUE 

1  tablespoon  corn  starch  3  eggs 

%  cup  sugar  Juice  of  1  lemon 

Pinch  of  salt  1  cup  water. 

• 

Mix  the  sugar  and  corn  starch,  add  yolks  of  eggs  and  one  white,  well 
beaten.  Add  the  lemon  juice  and  water.  Bake  in  pan  lined  with  rich  pie 
crust,  in  moderate  oven.  Make  meringue  of  2  whites,  beaten  stiffly,  and  Vn 
cup  powdered  sugar.    Put  in  oven  and  brown. — Mrs.  B.  E.  Bennett. 

LEMON  PIE 

3  eggs  3  tablespoons  hot  water 

Juice  and  rind  of  1  lemon  y2  cup  sugar  Pinch  of  salt 

Line  pie  pan  with  pastry  and  bake.  Put  filling  in  double  boiler  and  cook 
slowly  until  thick,  stirring  constantly.  Have  whites  of  eggs  beaten  stiff 
and  add  to  them  V2  cup  sugar.  Fold  into  the  cooked  mixture  and  put  in  pie 
shell.  Slip  into  oven  and  brown  on  top. — Mrs.  R.  B.  Boylin. 

BUTTER  SCOTCH  PIE 


1  cup  brown  sugar  2  egg  yolks 

2  tablespoons  Melrose  flour  (use  whites  for  meringue) 
2  tablespoons  butter                            1  cup  milk. 

Cream  butter,  sugar,  and  flour.  Mix  eggs  in  milk  and  heat  to  boiling 
point.  Remove  from  fire  and  pour  over  sugar,  butter  and  flour.  Mix  well 
and  let  boil  until  thick.  Pour  into  pastry  which  has  been  browned.  Beat 
the  whites  of  eggs,  sweeten  and  spread  over  top  of  pie.  Put  in  oven  and 
brown. — Mrs.  T.  C,  Coxe. 


90 


 CHARLOTTE  MARBLE  &  GRANITE  WORKS  —  MONUMENTS 


FOOLISH  PIE 


6  egg  whites  2  tablespoons  vinegar 

2  cups  sugar  1  teaspoon  Sauer's  vanilla 

Whipped  cream. 

-  Beat  egg  whites  five  minutes;  add  sugar  gradually;  beat  another  five 
minutes;  add  vinegar;  beat  another  five  minutes;  add  vanilla.  Bake  in 
buttered  pie  plates  in  slow  oven  until  pie  crust  is  crisp.  This  makes  two 
pies. 

Spread  whipped  cream  over  pie  crust  after  it  cools.  Sprinkle  fresh 
strawberries  over  cream,  or  any  fruit  desired. — Mrs.  Morgan  Sauls. 


BOSTON  CREAM  PIE 

1  pint  milk  1  cup  sugar 

2  eggs  y2  cup  Melrose  flour 

Put  milk  in  boiler  and  set  on  stove.  Break  eggs  in  bowl,  add  sugar  and 
flour,  beat  well,  and  stir  into  milk  just  as  it  begins  to  boil.  Add  1  tablespoon 
butter  and  cook  until  it  thickens.    Flavor  with  Sauer's  vanilla. 

Pastry 

3  eggs  iy2  cups  Melrose  flour 

1  cup  granulated  sugar  1  teaspoon  Royal  baking  powder 

2  tablespoons  cold  water. 


Beat  eggs  separately,  add  other  ingredients  and  bake  in  2  pie  tins.  When 
cool,  split  cakes,  making  two  layers  and  put  together  with  cream  filling. 

—Ethel  B.  Dunlap. 


CREAM  PIE 


3  eggs 

IV2  cups  sugar 

IV2  teaspoons  Royal  baking  powder 


V2  cup  cold  water 

One  and  two-thirds  cups  flour 

Sauer's  extract  (lemon  or  vanilla) 


Beat  eggs  and  sugar  10  minutes,  then  add  cold  water.  Add  flour  with 
baking  powder  sifted  into  it  3  times.    Bake  in  moderate  oven  . 

Filling 

IV2  cups  milk  1  cup  sugar 

2  eggs  V2  cup  butter 

2  tablespoons  corn  starch  Sauer's  vanilla  extract 

Heat  milk  slowly,  and  when  it  comes  to  a  boil,  add  sugar  and  butter. 
Dissolve  corn  starch  in  a  little  milk,  add  well  beaten  eggs,  and  add  slowly 
to  the  hot  milk.  When  the  mixture  has  thickened  sufficiently,  add  vanilla. 
Split  cake  and  spread  between  layers,  and  serve  with  whipped  cream  01 
chocolate  sauce. — Mrs.  W.  H.  Reddish,  Morganton,  N.  C. 


91 


SALAD  DRESSING 


—  USE  HENARD'S 


—  THERE'S   NONE  BETTER 


PINEAPPLE  PIE 

Mix  one  cup  sugar,  level  tablespoon  starch,  add  one  cup  boiling  water, 
three-fourths  cup  syrup  drained  from  can  of  crushed  pineapple.  Bring  to 
boiling  point  stirring  constantly;  cook  in  double  boiler  30  minutes.  Add 
two  beaten  egg  yolks,  cook  30  minutes  longer,  stirring  constantly. 
1  tablespoon  butter.  Add  %  cup  drained  crushed  pineapple,  juice  of 
lemon  then  pour  into  baked  crust  and  cover  with  meringue,  and  brown  over. 

—Mrs.  Ted  Coggeshall,  Darlington,  S.  C. 

PEACH  PIE 

%  can  peach  juice  6  tablespoons  butter 

%  cup  brown  sugar  3  tablespoons  Melrose  flour 

2  teaspoons  of  lemon  juice 

The  above  ingredients  to  be  made  into  a  sauce.  Line  pan  with  pie  pastry, 
cover  with  peaches,  bowl  side  up;  pour  sauce  over  this  and  use  strips  of 
pastry  for  top  crust.    Bake  in  moderate  oven. 

— Mrs.  Ted  Coggeshall,  Darlington,  S.  C. 

NEVER  FAIL  PIE  CRUST 

2  rounded  tablespoons  lard  Pinch  of  salt  1  cup  Melrose  flour 

Rub  together  until  well  blended,  add  enough  water  to  make  a  stiff  dough. 

_M-     T  Wall. 

CREAM  PUFFS 

One-half  cup  butter  melted  in  one  cup  hot  water;  put  in  pan  on  stove  to 
boil.  While  boiling,  stir  in  one  cup  Melrose  flour;  take  off  and  let  cool; 
when  cold,  stir  in  three  eggs,  one  ofter  the  other  without  beating.  Drop 
on  buttered  tins  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  twenty  to  thirty  minutes.  Cut 
off  tops  and  fill  with  cream  filling. 

Filling 

1  cup  milk  1  egg  V2  cup  sugar 

Thicken  with  corn  starch  and  flavor  with  Sauer's  vanilla. — Mrs.  T.  C.  Coxe. 


^2 


SALAD   DRESSING  —  USE   HENARDS  —  THERE'S   NONE  BETTER 


43u66ut3$ 

PRUNE  WHIP 

20  stewed  prunes  Whites  of  7  eggs 

V2  cup  black  walnut  meats  4  tablespoonfuls  sugar 

To  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites  add  sugar,  chopped  prunes  and  walnuts.  Bake 
in  water  bath  until  a  biscuit  brown.  Serve  with  a  custard  sauce  and  whipped 
cream. — Mrs.  H.  B.  Covington. 

FRUIT  CREAM 

2  cups  sliced  pineapple  1  cup  bananas 

2  cups  marshmallows  1  cup  heavy  cream 

Drain  pineapple  and  cut  in  cubes;  cut  marshmallows  in  four  pieces  and 
mix  lightly  with  pineapple.  Pour  pineapple  juice  over  diced  bananas  and 
let  stand.  Just  before  serving,  drain  then  add  to  pineapple  and  marsh- 
mallows; then  to  this  mixture  fold  in  stiffly  whipped  cream.  Garnish  with 
cherries  or  strawberries. — Mrs.  J.  T.  Austin. 

MAPLE  CHARLOTTE 

1  °«t     v"  1  pint  whipped  cream 

oyrup  %  teaspoon  salt 

pkg.  Knox  gelatine  Sauer's  vanilla  extract 

Dissolve  gelatine  in  cold  water,  then  add  enough  water  to  make  a  pint. 
Heat  syrup,  beat  egg,  and  mix.  When  mixture  gets  cold,  whip  the;  cream 
and  add  all  together.    Let  stand  over  night. — Mrs.  Annie  C.  Winburn. 

BANANA  NOISETTE 

V2  doz.  bananas  V2  cup  walnut  meats 

Grind  nut  meats  and  roll  bananas  in  this  with  a  little  brown  sugar  and 
nutmeg  flavor.  Put  a  little  butter  in  pan  and  bake  to  a  nice  brown,  then 
add  one -half  cup  cream  and  serve. — Mrs.  A.  D.  Griffin. 

CHARLOTTE  RUSSE 

V2  box  gelatine  1  pint  whipped  cream 

V2  pint  tepid  water  5  egg  whites 

Dissolve  gelatine  in  water,  strain  and  add  sugar  to  taste.  Add  whipped 
cream  and  fold  in  stiffly  beaten  eg  whites.  Add  V?.  cup  chopped  almonds. 
Flavor  to  taste.    Garnish  with  cherne...    Serves  eight. — Mrs.  R.  L.  Hardison. 


93 


SALAD   DRESSING  —  USE   HENARD'S  —  THERE'S   NONE  BETTER 


CHOCOLATE  BLANC-MANGE 

V2  box  gelatine  1  qt.  sweet  milk 

4  oz.  chocolate  1  cup  sugar 

Soak  gelatine  in  enough  cold  water  to  cover  it  until  dissolved.  Boil 
milk,  sugar  and  chocolate  five  minutes.  Add  gelatine  and  boil  five  minutes 
more,  stirring  constantly.  Flavor  with  Sauer's  vanilla  and  serve  with  pink 
colored  cream.    For  tea,  make  in  morning;  for  dinner,  night  before. 

— Mrs.  J.  M.  Covington 

MARSHMALLOW  DESSERT 

1  pound  marshmallows  1  bottle  maraschino  cherries 

2  cups  nut  meats  2  cups  whipped  cream 

Sau°r's  vanilla  extract 

Cut  marshmallows  into  small  pieces  and  pour  cherry  juice  over  them. 
.    Let  stand  over  night.    Then  add  whipped  cream,  nut  meats  and  cherries, 
cut  fine.    Put  into  refrigerator  until  ready  to  serve. 

—Mrs.  T.  R.  Troutman,  Polkton,  N.  C. 

SHREDDED  WHEAT  BISCUIT  WITH  STRAWBERRIES 

Prepare  strawberries  as  for  ordinary  serving.  Warm  biscuit  in  oven 
before  using.  Cut  or  crush  oblong  cavity  in  top  of  biscuit  to  form  basket. 
Fill  the  cavity  with  berries  and  serve  with  cream  or  milk.  Sweeten  to  taste. 
Peaches,  blackberries,  raspberries,  blueberries,  pineapples,  bananas,  «,nd 
other  fruit,  fresh  or  preserved,  can  bs  served  with  Shredded  Wh<?at 
Biscuit  in  the  same  way. 

LEMON  CREAM  (DELICIOUS) 

2  tablespoons  corn  starch  1M  cups  sugar 

Juice  and  rind  of  IV2  lemons  2V2  cups  boiling  water 

3  eggs 

Dissolve  the  corn  starch  in  a  little  water,  add  the  juice  and  rind  (grated) 
of  the  lemon,  the  sugar,  and  boiling  water.  Add  yolks  of  eggs,  well  beaten, 
and  cook  until  it  thickens.  Stir  constantly.  Remove  from  fire  and  fold 
in  whites  of  eggs,  beaten  stiffly.    Let  tcool  before  serving. — Hattie  Knotts. 

CRYSTALLIZED  APPLES 

Drop  whole  pared  and  cored  apples  into  boiling  syrup  made  of  sugar  and 
water,  colored  with  pink  vegetable  coloring.  When  thoroughly  done,  lift 
out  of  syrup  carefully  to  prevent  breaking  and  place  on  platter  to  cool. 
Fill  core  with  nuts  and  cap  with  a  marshmallow,  slightly  brown. 

— Mrs.  W.  O,  Spencer,  Winston,  N.  C. 


94 


SALAD   DRESSING  —  USE   HENARD'S  —  THERE'S   NONE  BETTER 


SHORT  CAKE 

During  fruit  season  there  is  nothing  better  than  a  good  short  cake. 
Beginning  with  strawberries,  one  may  next  use  dewberries,  blackberries, 
huckleberries,  soft  peaches,  and  even  sliced  apples  that  have  been  pre- 
viously cooked.    A  good  recipe  for  short  cake  is  as  follows: 


2  cupfuls  Melrose  flour 

1  teaspoon  salt 

4  to  G  tablespoons  fat 


4  teaspoons  Royal  baking  powder 

1  tablespoon  sugar 

%  cupful  milk  1  egg 


Sift  together  the  dry  ingredients,  then  rub  in  the  fat  with  the  finger 
tips  or  the  back  of  the  mixing  spoon  until  the  mixture  looks  flaky.  Pour 
in  the  milk  to  make  a  soft  dough  and  roll  on  a  floured  board.  Bake  in 
one  layer  for  a  large  short  cake  or  cut  with  a  biscuit  cutter  for  individual 
short  cakes.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven  for  from  12  to  15  minutes.  Split  in  two 
parts  and  put  one  quart  of  sweetened  fruit  between  the  layers  and  on  top. 
Serve  hot  or  cold  with  hard  sauce  or  whipped  cream.  Garnish  cream 
with  two  or  three  fresh  berries. 

Hard  sauce  is  made  as  follows: 

V2  cupful  butter  2  tablespoons  cream 

1  cupful  powdered  sugar  Sauer's  flavoring  to  taste 

Cream  the  butter  and  work  in  the  sugar  and  cream  alternately. 

— Mrs.  Rosalind  A.  Redfeam. 

BOILED  CUSTARD 

5  eggs  1  level  teaspoon  salt 

1  qt.  fresh  milk  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

5  heaping  tablespoons  sugar 

Bring  milk  to  scalding  point  without  boiling;  take  from  fire  and  pour 
slowly  into  well-beaten  yolks  of  eggs  with  which  have  been  creamed  salt 
and  sugar.  Replace  on  fire  in  double  boiler  and  stir  until  custard  coats 
the  spoon  and  is  smooth  and  creamy.  While  quite  hot,  fold  in  the  well- 
beaten  whites  and  add  vanilla.    Chill  before  using. — Mrs.  T.  L.  Caudle. 

CHOCOLATE  PUDDING 

2  cups  milk  2  eggs 

4  teaspoons  sugar  Vi  cup  chocolate 

V2  teaspoon  vanilla  IV2  teaspoons  flour,  dissolved 

Boil  milk  and  chocolate  together.  Beat  yolks  oi*  eggs  with  sugar.  Add 
flour  and  when  thoroughly  mixed,  stir  into  boiling  milk  and  chocolate. 
Cook  until  it  thickens,  stirring  constantly.  When  thickened,  add  vanilla. 
Put  into  pan,  cover  with  well-beaten  whites  of  eggs,  slightly  sweetened. 
Brown  in  oven. — Mrs.  T.  A.  Marshall. 


95 


SALAD   DRESSING  —  USE   HENARD'S  —  THERE'S   NONE  BETTER 


FRUIT  PUDDING 


1  qt.  canned  fruit  2  teaspoons  Royal  baking  powder 

1  pint  Meirose  flour  1  teaspoon  salt 

Place  fruit  (cherries,  blackberries,  peaches  or  damsons  especially  good) 
in  vessel  with  close  fitting  top.  Let  come  to  a  boil.  Put  flour,  baking 
powder,  and  salt  in  bowl.  Add  enough  cold  water  to  make  a  dough,  not 
too  stiff,  mixing  with  a  fork.  Take  cover  off  boiling  fruit,  drop  dough  into 
it,  placing  top  on  lightly  at  once.  Move  to  back  of  stove  where  it  can 
steam  slowly  for  35  minutes.  Do  not  remove  top  while  pudding  is  cooking. 
Serve  a  slice  of  pastry  with  2  or  3  tablespoons  of  the  fruit  and  juice,  topped 
with  hard  sauce  made  by  creaming  thoroughly  1V2  cups  sugar,  V2  cup 
butter,  and  thinning  with  2  tablespoons  cream.    Flavor  with  Sauer's  vanilla. 

— Mrs.  Ben  I.  Dunlap,  Ansonville,  N.  C. 


SWEET  POTATO  PUDDING 


2  eggs 

1  cup  sugar 

1  cup  grated  sweet  potato 
V2  cup  butter 

Allspice,  nutmeg  and  cinnamon  to 
batter;  mix  in  order  given  and  bake  in 


V2  cup  milk 

Pinch  of  soda 

1  tablespoon  Melrose  flour 

1  tablespoon  molasses 

taste.  Enough  milk  to  make  a  soft 
moderate  oven. — Mrs.  R.  S.  Pruette. 


SNOW  PUDDING 


2  tablespoonfuls  gelatine  1  teaspoon  Sauer's  vanilla 

Vi  cup  cold  water  1  cup  boiling  water 

1  cup  sugar         3  whites  of  eggs  1  cup  lemon  juice 

Beat  whites  of  eggs  light  and  when  jelly  begins  to  thicken,  add  to  it. 
Beat  until  smooth,  then  pour  in  mold. 


Sauce  for  Pudding 


Yolks  of  3  eggs  V2  teaspoon  Sauer's  vanilla 

Vs  teaspoon  salt  %  cup  sugar  1  pt.  hot  milk 

Stir  constantly  until  thick  like  boiled  custard. — Mrs.  E.  C.  Ingram. 


SW  EET  MEAT  PUDDING 

6  ozs.  butter  M>  lb.  sugar 

6  eggs  (beaten  separately)  1  nutmeg 

1  glass  jelly  A  little  lemon  juice 


Bake  in  rich  pie  crust  rolled  thin  in  cake  pans. — Miss  Nancy  L.  Little. 


—  SATISFACTORY  WORK   ALWAYS — STOGNER'S  BARKER  SHOP  — 


BANANA  PUDDING 


4  bananas  1  cup  sugar 

4  eggs  2  cups  sweet  milk 

18  or  20  vanilla  wafers  Butter  size  of  walnut 

2  tablespoons  corn  starch 

Cut  the  bananas  cross  ways  in  thin  slices;  put  alternate  layers  of  wafers 
and  bananas,  leaving  first  and  last  layers  of  the  wafers  until  the  pan  is 
full;  then  make  a  custard  of  the  milk,  corn  starch,  butter  and  yolks  of  the 
eggs,  adding  four  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar;  spread  over  the  top  and  put  <n 
oven  until  brown. — Mrs.  Fred  Wall. 


DATE  PUDDING 


1  pkg.  Dromedary  dates 
Vz  cup  sugar 

xk  teaspoon  Royal  baking  powder 
1  pinch  salt 

cup  walnuts  or  pecans 


1  teaspoon  Sauer's  vanilla  extract 

1  cup  brown  bread  crumbs  (toast- 
ed) 

2  eggs 

Enough  milk  for  medium  batter 


Chop  dates  and  nut  meats.  Beat  eggs  separately,  then  mix  all  ingredients. 
Bake  30  minutes.    Cut  in  squares.    Serve  hot  or  cold  with  whipped  cream. 

— Mrs.  E.  C.  Ingram. 


COTTAGE  PUDDING 

1  tablespoon  butter  %  cup  milk 

1  cup  sugar  2  eggs 

1  teaspoon  Royal  baking  powder  1 V2  cups  Melrose  flour 


Beat  butter,  sugar  and  yolk  of  eggs  together  until  light.  Add  milk  and 
then  flour.  Beat  well.  Add  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites  and  fold  in  care- 
fully. Lastly,  add  baking  powder  and  mix  well.  Pour  into  greased  cake 
pan  and  bake  in  moderate  oven  SA  of  an  hour.  Serve  hot  with  lemon  or 
chocolate  sauce.    Also  nice  for  strawberry  shortcake. — Mrs.  B.  G.  Covington. 


SCOTCH  DUOBAN  PUDDING 


%  pint  Melrose  flour  A  little  milk,  if  necessary 

2  ozs.  butter  V2  teaspoon  salt 

2  teaspoons  Royal  baking  powder  1  egg 

Jam  V2  teacup  sugar 

Rub  butter  into  flour  into  which  has  been  added  salt,  baking  powder  and 
sugar.  Add  egg  well  beaten;  make  into  a  stiff  dough  using  milk,  if  re- 
quired. Roll  out  dough  and  spread  thickly  with  jam.  Roll  like  jelly  roll 
and  put  into  a  buttered  baking  dish.  Pour  cup  milk  over  this  and  bake 
in  quick  oven.    Serve  with  any  pudding  sauce  or  cream. — Mrs.  J.  F.  Hamaker. 


97 


-  SATISFACTORY  WORK  ALWAYS— STOGNER'S  BARBER  SHOP  — 


BLACKBERRY  PUDDING 


3  eggs  (yolks  only)  V2  cup  blackberry  jam 

%  cup  butter  3  teaspoons  buttermilk 

IV2  cups  Melrose  flour  %  teaspoon  each  cinnamon  and  nut 

1  teaspoon  soda  meg 


Mix  as  you  would  a  cake;  bake  in  slow  oven,  and  use  whites  of  egg  for 
meringue.    Serve  hot  with  hard  sauce. — Mrs.  C.  C.  Bennett. 

ENGLISH  PLUM  PUDDING 


2  pounds  raisins 

2  pounds  currants 

V2  pound  citron 

V2  pound  almonds 

V2  pound  fine  bread  crumbs 

1  tablespoon  salt 
V2  teaspoon  cloves 

2  tablespoons  Royal  baking  powder 


3  lemons,  juice  and  grated  rind 

1  pound  butter 

1  pound  brown  sugar 

1  pound  sifted  flour 

I  large  cup  molasses 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

3  grated  nutmegs 

8  eggs     1    wineglass  rose  water 


Mix  the  flour,  bread  crumbs,  spices,  sugar  and  molasses,  then  add  the 
well-beaten  eggs,  next  the  butter  and  lemon  juice,  then  fruit.  Mix  well, 
add  baking  powder,  and  rose  water.    Steam  8  or  10  hours. 

— Mrs.  May  Rose  Thompson. 


CHESTNUT  PUDDING 


1  *gg 

4  heaping  mixing  spoonfuls  of 
chestnuts  previously  boiled  and 
chopped  fine 

4  spoonfuls  of  bread  cut  into  tiny 
cubes 


2  spoonfuls  of  cream  (canned  milk; 

or  enough  to  moisten  but  not  wet 

the  mixture 
1  scant  spoonful  sugar 
A  pinch  of  salt 
V2  teaspoon  vanilla 


Mix,  place  in  mold  and  steam  for  half  an  hour.  Serve  hot  with  custard 
sauce.    For  three  people. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Kanaga,  American  Legation,  Peking. 

ORANGE  MOUSSE 

1  envelope  Knox  gelatine  V2  pint  cream  or  more 

4  oranges  1  cup  cold  water 

1  lemon  y2  cup  hot  water 

1  cup  sugar 

Dissolve  gelatine  in  cold  water,  add  hot  water,  cool  and  add  juices  of 
oranges  and  lemon,  and  grated  rind  of  one  orange.  Add  sugar  and  when 
mixture  begins  to  congeal,  whip  into  stiffly  beaten  cream. 

— Mrs.  Herman  A.  Smith. 


98 


—  SATISFACTORY  WORK  ALWAYS— STOGNERS  BARBER  SHOP  — 


Dees  an6   fxozzxi  Creams 

STRAWBERRY  ICE  CREAM 

1  cup  milk  1  cup  cream 

2  cups  whipped  cream  %  cup  sugar 

1  pint  crushed,  sweetened  strawberries 

Scald  1  cup  cream,  milk  and  the  sugar.  When  cool,  add  whipped  cream. 
Freeze  to  soft  mush  and  add  berries.  Freeze  and  let  stand  several  hours  to 
ripen. — Mrs.  Harry  Covington. 

ICED  MELON 

Thoroughly  chill  a  watermelon.  Cut  and  remove  seeds  from  heart  and 
cut  solid  part  into  cubes.  Put  in  compotes  and  sprinkle  with  sugar  or 
cinnamon  as  desired. — Mrs.  H.  B.  Covington. 

LEMON  ICE  CREAM 

1  quart  milk  6  lemons 

1  pint  thick  cream  3  cups  sugar 

First  mix  juice  of  lemons  with  sugar  and  let  stand  while  you  chill  the 
milk;  whip  cream.  Add  juice  and  sugar  to  chilled  milk  and  after  this  begins 
to  freeze,  add  cream  and  finish  freezing. — Mrs.  W.  E.  White,  Louisburg,  N.  C. 

FRESH  LEMON  ICE  CREAM 

8  eggs  2  qts.  cream  (or  milk) 

9  lemons  (juice)  3  cups  sugar  or  sugar  to  taste 

Squeeze  juice  and  put  in  sugar  and  mix,  stirring  several  times.  Then  beat 
eggs  light.    Stir  in  slowly  lemon  syrup. — Mrs.  Elliot  Boswell. 

PEPPERMINT  ICE  CREAM 

12  sticks  peppermint  candy  1  qt.  cream 

Mash  candy  and  let  soak  over  night  in  enough  milk  to  dissolve  it.  Whip 
cream,  add  mint  and  freeze. 

FROZEN  APPLE  FLOAT 

Whites  of  3  eggs,  beaten  stiff  2  cups  sweetened  apple  sauce 

2  cups  stiffly  beaten  cream 

Mix,  flavor  and  freeze. — Mrs.  R.  E.  Little,  Jr. 


99 


—  SATISFACTORY  WORK  ALWAYS— STOGNERS  BARBER  SHOP  — 


BISQUE  ICE  CREAM 

1  qt.  heavy  cream  Yz  pound  sugar 

V2  pound  maccaroons  1  teaspoon  Sauer's  vanilla 

2  lady  fingers  1  teaspoon  caramel 

Use  only  stale  macaroons  and  lady  fingers,  and  run  through  meat  chopper. 
Put  half  quantity  cream  into  this,  beat,  add  sugar  and  stir  until  reaching 
boiling  point,  take  from  fire,  add  remaining  ingredients.  Freeze  and  let 
stand  three  hours  to  ripen. — Mrs.  McLean  B.  Leath. 

FROZEN  FRUIT 

1  doz  oranges — juice  1  can  pineapple 

1  can  peaches  1  can  peaches      8  bananas 

Put  through  mpat  chopper  or  mash  fine.  Sweeten  to  taste.  Pour  th'z 
into  your  freezer  and  whip  1  qt.  cream,  sweeten  to  teste  and  flavor  with 
Sauer's  vanilla.  Put  on  top  of  fruits  and  put  in  ice  cream  tub,  and  pacR 
well  using  plenty  of  salt.  Ycu  may  have  to  pack  several  times  as  it  depends 
upon  the  occasion.  When  ready  to  serve,  turn  the  whole  thing  out  on  ;i 
platter,  slice  and  serve.  Ideal  dessert  for  a  buffet  supper:  One-half  frozen 
fruit,  V2  whipped  cream  and  serve  a  slice  of  each. — Mrs.  Elliot  Boswell. 

MANHATTAN  PUDDING 

IV2  cups  orange  juice  IY2  cups  chopped  almonds 

XA  cup  lemon  juice  IV2  cups  powdered  sugar 

1  teaspoon  Sauer's  vanilla  1  pint  of  heavy  cream,  whipped 

Blanch  almonds  and  chop  fine.  Mix  fruit  juice  and  half  of  sugar.  Let 
dissolve.  Turn  mixture  into  cold  mold.  Whip  cream  and  add  rest  of  sugar, 
vanilla  and  chopped  almonds.  Pour  over  fruit  mixture,  filling  mold  to  top. 
Pack  in  equal  parts  of  ice  and  salt  and  let  stand  SV2  hours. 

—Mrs.  R.  E.  Little,  Jr. 

CHOCOLATE  ICE  CREAM 
1  qt.  full  milk  2  eggs 

1  qt.  of  cream  4  tablespoons  Melrose  flour 
IV2  cups  sugar  2  teaspoons  Sauer's  vanilla 

2  squares  of  bitter  chocolate,  Pinch  of  salt 
melted 

Mix  sugar  and  flour  together  dry,  wet  with  a  little  of  the  milk,  add  the 
eggs  and  melted  chocolate  and  mix  smooth.  Scald  the  milk  and  pour  over 
the  sugar  mixture.  Return  to  double  boiler  and  cook  until  it  coats  the  spoon. 
When  done  remove  from  fire.  Add  cream  while  hot,  let  get  cold.  Add  vanilla 
and  salt  and  freeze.  Four  eggs  may  be  used  and  no  flour,  if  preferred. 
Make  custard  of  egg  and  milk,  then  proceed  in  the  same  manner. 

—Mrs.  F.  W.  Hancock,  Sr.  Oxford,  N.  C. 


ICO 


—  SATISFACTORY  WORK  ALWAYS — STOGNER'S  BARBER  SHOP  — 


FROZEN  PUDDING 


1  can  grated  pineapple  (large)  1  cup  powdered  sugar 

IV2  pints  whipped  cream  %  cup  chopped  pecans  or  almonds 

Put  pineapple  in  mold,  add  cream  to  which  sugar  has  been  added,  and 
pecans.    Pack  in  ice  and  salt.    Let  stand  4  to  6  hours. — Mrs.  T.  C.  Coxe. 


CARAMEL  ICE  CREAM 


4  eggs  1  quart  milk 

1  cup  sifted  Melrose  flour  %  cup  sugar 

1  pound  sugar  2  quarts  cream 

Beat  eggs,  add  flour  and  beat  until  smooth.  Have  1  quart  milk  on  stove, 
to  which  %  cup  sugar  has  been  added.  When  milk  is  warm,  stir  in  egg  and 
flour  mixture,  and  cook  until  it  thickens  slightly.  Brown  1  pound  white 
sugar  in  a  hot  iron  skillet  and  add  to  the  milk  and  flour  mixture,  beating 
rapidly  to  keep  from  lumping.  Put  this  aside  to  cool.  When  ready  tc 
freeze,  add  the  cream.    This  makes  1  gallon. — Mrs.  J.  M.  Lytch. 


APRICOT  ICE  CREAM 


1  can  apricots  1  pkg.  Jell-0  ice  cream  powder 

1  large  can  Carnation  milk  1  pint  whipped  cream 

1  qt.  rich  cow's  milk  Sugar  to  taste 

Crush  apricots  very  fine  and  sweeten  to  taste.  Dissolve  ice  cream  powder 
in  a  little  milk,  then  add  remainder.  Mix  all  ingredients,  adding  last  the 
cream  whipped  stiff.  Freeze,  and  let  stand  an  hour  or  two  before  serving, 
to  improve  the  flavor.    This  makes  three  quarts  of  ice  cream. 

— Mrs.  J.  D.  Maynard. 


FROZEN  PUDDING 


9  eggs  V-2  gal.  whole  milk 

2  lbs.  sugar  1  qt.  cream 

V2  box  gelatine  2  lbs.  raisins 

1  lb.  citron  1  pt.  grated  pineapple 

Cream,  eggs  and  sugar;  soak  gelatine  in  one  cup  milk  five  minutes;  add 
to  gelatine  mixture  rest  of  milk  boiling  hot;  pour  over  eggs  and  sugar,  when 
cool  add  cream  (whipped).  When  nearly  frozen  add  fruits;  finish  freezing. 
This  amount  serves  about  25  people. — Mrs.  H.  B.  Covington. 

ORANGE  SHERBET 

8  to  12  oranges  3  lemons  1  can  grated  pineapple 

Sweeten  to  taste;  add  water  to  finish  %  gallon;  when  this  is  half  frozen, 
add  whites  of  six  egges  well  beaten  and  complete  freezing. — Johnsie  Dunlap. 


101 


THE  FINEST  ON  THE  AMERICAN  MARKET— SALTER'S  EXTRACTS 


ORANGE  ICE 

1  pint  of  sugar,  or  to  taste  1  qt.  orange  juice 

1  pint   boiling  water  3  lemons  (juice) 

Dissolve  sugar  in  boiling  water,  cool,  add  juices  of  oranges  and  lemons. 
Freeze  and  serve  with  whipped  cream. — Mrs.  Bill  Coxe,  Darlington,  S.  C 

PINEAPPLE  SHERBET  (DELICIOUS) 

1  envelope  Knox  gelatine  3  cups  sugar 

1  can  crushed  pineapple  (large)  Juice  of  4  lemons 

Proceed  as  for  lemon  jelly,  then  add  cold  water,  making  about  4  quarts, 
of  liquid.  Add  pineapple,  and  when  partly  frozen  add  1  quart  of  cream  and 
finish  freezing. — Mrs.  B.  G.  Covington. 

APRICOT  SHERBET 

1  small  can  of  apricots  IV2  cups  sugar 

Juice  of  3  lemons  3  cups  water 

Juice  of  2  oranges,  1  if  large 

Let  sugar  and  water  come  to  a  boil;  take  j^e  of  lemon,  orange  and 
apricots,  mix  all  together  and  freeze;  after  it  sA^ts  freezing,  add  V2  pint 
whipped  cream.  When  frozen,  remove  dasher  an<  wpack  for  few  hours.  This 
makes  two  quarts. — Mrs.  Sam  Smith. 

NESSELRODE  PUDDING 


1  cup  sugar 

3  egg  yolks 

V2  pint  cream 

1  teaspoon  Sauer's  vanilla 

XA  cup  water  (boiling) 


One-third  teaspoon  almond  extract 
1  cup  chopped  crystallized  fruits 
1  cup  chopped  almonds 
1  small  can  pineapple  (drained) 


Put  sugar  and  water  in  saucepan.  Let  dissolve  and  cook  slowly  for  5 
minutes.  Pour  this  into  well  beaten  eggs.  Stir  constantly  until  the  con- 
sistency of  cream.  Pour  into  bowl  and  beat  until  cold,  then  add  cream, 
almonds  and  flavoring.  Freeze,  stir  in  fruits,  and  pack.  This  is  improved 
by  adding  V2  pint  whipped  cream  when  half  frozen.  (Tested.) 

PINEAPPLE  MOUSSE 

1  teaspoon  Knox  gelatine  1  cup  scalded  pineapple  juice 

3  tablespoons  cold  water  %  cup  sugar 

1  tablespoon  lemon  juice  1  pint  heavy  cream 

Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water  5  minutes  and  dissolve  in  hot  pineapple  juice. 
Add  sugar  and  lemon  juice,  and  when  cool,  add  cream  beaten  stiff.  Beat 
mixture  until  stiff,  using  an  egg  beater.  Fill  wet  mold,  adjust  cover,  pack 
in  rock  salt  and  finely  crushed  ice,  using  equal  parts,  and  let  stand  four 
hours.  Turn  out  on  serving  dish  and  garnish  with  half  slices  of  canned 
pineapple  and  candied  cherries. — Mrs.  Henry  Little. 


102 


THE  FINEST  ON  THE  AMERICAN   MARKET— SAUERS  EXTRACTS 


(Takes 

SALLY  WHITE  CAKE  (FRUIT) 


1  lb.  butter  1  11).  almonds  shelled  and  blanched 

1  lb.  Melrose  flour  2  small  cocoanuts 

l\i  lbs.  sugar  1  nutmeg 

12  eggs  1  wineglass  grape  juice 

3  lbs.  citron  1  wineglass  mock  brandy 


Mix  and  bake  as  a  fruit  cake. — Mrs.  J.  D.  Horne. 


WHITE  FRUIT  CAKE 


1  doz.  whites  of  eggs 
1  lb.  sugar 
%  lb.  butter 
1  lb.  Melrose  flour 
1   teaspoon  Royal  baking  powder, 
little  more  than  level 


1  grated  cocoanut  (mix  with  a  little 
flour) 

1  lb.  chopped  blanched  almonds 
1  lb.  citron 

1  lb.  crystallized  pineapple 
1  lb.  crystallized  cherries 


Add  gradually  to  the  batter,  the  floured  cocoanut  first,  then  the  other 
fruits  and  nuts  previously  floured.    Bake  in  slow  oven  about  three  hours. 

—Mrs.  Sam  S.  Steele. 


FRUIT  CAKE 


1  lb  butter 

1  lb.  sugar 

1  lb.  Melrose  flour 

3  lbs.  raisins 

1  lb.  figs 

V2  lb.  citron  (homemade) 


8  eggs 

Y2  cup  molasses 
Soda  size  of  pea  dissolved  in 
lasses 

Nutmeg,  cinnamon  to  taste 


Cook  slowly  several  hours  until  done. — Mrs.  Paul  Kiker. 


FRUIT  CAKE 


1  lb  butter 

1  lb.  Melrose  flour 

1  lb.  sugar 
10  eggs 

2  lbs.  seedless  raisins 

1   heaping  teaspoon  Royal  bakin; 

powder 
4  teaspoons  cinnamon 


2  teaspoons  spice 
2  lbs.  dates 
IV2  lbs.  citron 

V2  lb.  pineapple  (crystallized) 
V2  lb.  cherries 

1  lb.  figs  (if  wanted) 

2  teaspoons  cloves 
V2  glass  grape  juice 


Bake  in  slow  oven  four  hours.    Flour  fruit. — Mrs.  E.  A.  Allen 


103 


THE  FINEST  ON  THE  AMERICAN  MARKET— SAUER'S  EXTRACTS 


DEVIL'S  FOOD  CAKE 


Part  1 

1  cup  brown  sugar,  sifted      1  cup  sweet  milk       V2  large  cake  chocolate 

Part  2 

%  cup  butter  3  cups  Melrose  flour 

2  cups  brown  sugar,  sifted  3  teaspoons  Royal  baking  powd':r 

3  large  eggs  1  teaspoon  Sauer's  vanilla 
1  cup  sweet  milk 


Reg.  form  of  mixing.  Put  together  with  white  icing. — Mrs.  H.  B.  Covington. 


BLACK  CHOCOLATE  CAKE 


One-third  cake  chocolate,  grated 

1  teaspoon  soda,  added 

V2  cup  boiling  water,  poured  on  and 

let  stand 
V2  cup  butter 

2  cups  brown  sugar,  creamed 


2  eggs 

2V2  cups  Melrose  flour 
V2  cup  buttermilk,  to  this  add  choc- 
olate mixture 

1  teaspoon  Sauer's  vanilla 

2  teaspoons  Royal  baking  powder 


Put  together  with  cooked  icing. — Mrs.  J.  M.  Austin. 

CHOCOLATE  CAKE 


1  cup  milk  2  cups  Melrose  flour 

1  cup  butter  •  1  cup  cocoa 

2  cups  sugar  4  eggs 

3  teaspoons  Royal  baking  powder 

Cream  butter  and  sugar  and  add  yolks  of  eggs.  Sift  flour,  cocoa  and 
baking  powder  all  together,  and  to  mixture  then  add  well  beaten  whites 
last.    Flavor  with  vanilla.    Fill  with  boiled  icing. — Mrs.  May  D.  Redfern. 

CHOCOLATE  NOUGAT 

V2  cup  sugar  2  cups  Melrose  flour 

V2  cup  milk  V2  cup  butter 

2  eggs  (yolks)  1  teaspoon  soda  dissolved in  1  table- 
V2  cake  little  chocolate  (cook  this  to         spoon  boiling  water 

smooth  paste  and  set  to  cool)  3  eggs  V2  cup  milk 

IV2  cups  sugar 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  milk  and  flour  sifted  3  times;  drop  in  eggs, 
one  at  time  while  mixing;  add  cooked  mixture  last  and  1  teaspoonful  vanilla. 
Bake  in  moderate  oven. 

Filling 

3  cups  of  sugar,  cook  until  it  spins  thread;  2  eggs,  whites,  well  beaten. 
Beat  sugar  with  whites,  then  add  XA  lb.  marshmallows.    Spread  between 

layers  and  on  top  and  sides. — Mrs.  C.  C.  Bennett. 


104 


THE  FINEST  ON  THE  AMERICAN    M  ARK  ET— SAUER'S   EXTRAC  TS 


CHOCOLATE  ROLL 


3  tablespoons  of  sugar  1  tablespoon  of  Melrose  flour 

2  tablespoons  of  cocoa  3  eggs  beaten  separately 

Add  yolks  to  dry  ingredients,  beat  well,  lastly  fold  in  well-beaten  whites, 
bake  in  a  flat  pan  5  to  10  minutes,  cool,  roll  as  a  jelly  roll,  using  V2  pint  of 
whipped  cream  for  filling,  then  pour  over  top  and  sides  a  frosting  made  of: 

1  square  of  chocolate     2  tablespoons  of  water     3  tablespoons  of  sugar 

— Rena  Ingram  Via. 


LAYER  CAKE  (SMALL) 


1  cup  sugar 
V2  cup  butter 
3  eggs 


2  cups  Melrose  flour 

2  teaspoons  Royal  baking  powder 

V2  cup  sweet  milk      Sauer's  vanilla 


Cream  butter  and  sugar.  Add  eggs  after  having  beaten  separately.  Mix 
thoroughly.  Add  milk.  Sift  flour  and  baking  powder  together.  Fold  in 
one  half  the  quantity  at  the  time.  Add  flavoring,  divide  into  three  layers 
and  bake  in  quick  oven. — Mrs.  W.  L.  Marshall. 

Chocolate  Filling 

V2  cup  bitter  chocolate  (grated)  V2  teaspoon  Sauer's  vanilla 

1  cup  sugar  2  teaspoons  Melrose  flour 

2  cups  sweet  milk 

Mix  chocolate,  sugar,  milk,  and  put  on  stove  to  boil.  Let  cook  until  choco- 
late dissolves,  stirring  occasionally.  Thicken  with  flour  dissolved  in  a  little 
water.  Cool  and  add  vanilla.  Spread  between  layers.  Sprinkle  on  top 
of  cake  with  pulverized  sugar. — Mrs.  W.  L.  Marshall. 


MY  MOTHER'S  WHITE  CAKE 


Whites  of  10  eggs  V2  teaspoon  soda 

1  cup  sweet  milk  1  cup  butter  3  cups  sugar 

4  cups  Melrose  flour  1  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar 

Cream  butter  and  sugar  until  very  light  and  foamy;  add  milk  and  flour 
after  sifting  powder  in  it,  a  small  quantity  at  time,  alternating  the  last  of 
the  flour  with  the  well-beaten  whites  of  eggs.  Add  1  teaspoon  of  vanilla 
just  before  pouring  into  loaf  pan.  Rise  slowly,  increasing  the  heat  gradually 
until  done. — Mrs.  W.  0.  Spencer,  Winston-Salem,  N.  C. 


FEATHER  CAKE 


1*4  cups  sugar 

%  cup  butter  V2  cup  water 

2V2  cups  Melrose  flour 


2  teaspoons  Royal  baking  powder 
4  eggs,  beaten  separately 
1  teaspoon  Sauer's  vanilla 

—Mrs.  Thos.  C.  Coxe. 


105 


THE  FINEST  ON  THE  AMERICAN  MARKET— SAUER'S  EXTRACTS 


PLAIN  SPONGE  CAKE 


3  eggs  1  cup  sugar       1  teaspoon  Royal  baking1  powder 

V2  cup  hot  water  One-third  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  sifted  Melrose  flour  Grated  rind  of  half  a  lemon 

Beat  the  eggs,  with  half  the  sugar,  until  they  thicken,  add  the  water  and 
the  remainder  of  the  sugar  and  beat  again.  Put  in  the  grated  lemon  rind, 
then  the  flour  sifted  with  the  salt  and  the  baking  powder,  folding  these  in 
as  gently  as  possible.  Bake  about  thirty  minutes  in  a  shallow  pan  that  has 
been  greased  and  floured. — Mrs.  George  E.  Burns. 


DATE  AND  NUT  CAKE 


1  cup  sugar  3  eggs 

1  pkg.  Dromedary  dates 
1  cup  nut  meats  (pecans) 


1  V2  cups  Melrose  flour 

IV2  teaspoons  Royal  baking  powder 

Few  grains  of  salt 


Beat  yolks  and  whites  of  eggs  separately,  adding  one-half  cup  sugar  to 
yolks  and  one-half  to  whites;  mix  the  two  and  add  other  ingredients.  Cook 
in  slow  oven.    When  cold,  cut  in  blocks  and  roll  in  powdered  sugar. 

— Mrs.  W.  E.  Carpenter. 


VELVET  CAKE 


1  lb.  Melrose  flour  1  cup  milk 

1  lb.  sugar  V2  lb.  butter       2    level    teaspoons    Royal  baking 

6  eggs  powder 

Cream  butter  and  sugar  together;  add  milk  and  flour  alternately.  Break 
eggs  in  one  at  the  time,  beating  one  minute  each  time.  Bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  IV2  hours. — Mrs.  M.  W.  Lee. 


WHITE  POUND  CAKE 


1  pound  sugar  V2  pound  butter       16  egg  whites 

1  pound  Melrose  flour  1  teaspoon  Royal  baking  powder 

Cream  butter  and  sugar.  Sift  flour  and  baking  powder  together  and  add 
gradually.    Lastly,  fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  eggs. 

— Mrs.  M.  L.  Ham,  Morven,  N.  C. 


WHITE  COCOANUT  CAKE 

8  eggs  (whites)  1  cup  sweet  milk 

3  cups  Melrose  flour  2  teaspoons  Royal  baking  powder 

2  cups  sugar  2  teaspoons  Sauer's  orange  extract 
1  cup  butter  V2  teaspoon  Sauer's  almond 

Icing 

3  cups  sugar  3  eggs  (whites)  V2  cup  boiling  water 
Usually  takes  about  two  cocoanuts  for  filling. — Harriet  Lavinia  Boggam 


106 


—  GOOD  MEALS  —  HOME  COOKING  —  THE  NATIONAL  HOTEL  — 


LANE  CAKE 


8  eggs  (whites)  S\i  cups  flour 

2  cups  sugar  1  cup  sweet  milk 

1  cup  butter  2  teaspoons  Royal  baking  powder 

Pineapple  Filling — to  be  used  with  Lane  Cake,  or  any  other  cake: 
Use  well-beaten  yolks  of  8  eggs  (drain  off  juices  of  can  of  grated  pine- 
apple) into  it  put  1%  cups  of  sugar  and  the  beaten  eggs.    Cook  in  a  double 
boiler  until  very  thick,  when  cool  add  grated  pineapple  and  spread  between 
cake. — Mrs.  Charlie  Gathings. 

MARBLE  CAKE 

6  eggs,  beaten  separately  2  cups  sugar 

1  cup  butter  3  cups  Melrose  flour 

1  cup  sweet  milk  1  teaspoon  Royal  baking  powder 

Cream  butter,  add  sugar,  then  milk;  sift  the  flour  and  baking  powder 
together,  then  add  to  other  ingredients.  Divide  the  batter  as  near  equally 
as  you  can  by  guess,  put  the  white  of  egg  in  one  part  and  the  yolks  in  the 
other,  then  drop  a  spoonful  in  baking  pan  alternately,  and  it  mixes  itself. 

—Mrs.  W.  A.  Smith. 


LADY  BALTIMORE  CAKE 


1  cup  butter 

2  cups  sugar 

3%  cups  Melrose  flour 
1  cup  sweet  milk 


0  eggs  (whites) 

2    level    teaspoons    Royal  baking- 
powder 

1  teaspoon  rose  water 


Icing 

Dissolve  3  cups  sugar  in  1  cup  boiling  water,  cook  until  it  spins  a  thread. 
Pour  over  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  3  eggs.  To  this  Icing,  add  1  cup  chopped 
raisins,  1  cup  chopped  pecans,  1  cup  finely  chopped  figs.  Ice  both  top  and 
sides  of  cake. — Mrs.  D.  D.  Coward. 


TILDEN  CAKE 


1  cup  butter 

2  cups  sugar 

2  teaspoons  Royal  baking  powder 
2  teaspoons  Sauer's  vanilla 


1  cup  sweet  milk 
SVz  cups  Melrose  flour 
6  eggs  (leaving  out  2  whites  for 
icing  and  filling) 

— Winifred  Caraway. 


ONE-TWO-THREE-FOUR  CAKE 

1  even  cup  butter  4  eggs  1  cup  sweet  milk 

2  cups  sugar  1  teaspoon  Royal  baking  powder 

3  cups  sifted  Melrose  flour 

— Mrs.  C.  S.  Brasington. 


107 


—  GOOD  MEALS  —  HOME  COOKING  —  THE  NATIONAL  HOTEL  — 


JAPANESE  FRUIT  CAKE 

6  eggs  1  teaspoon  Royal  baking  powder 

1  cup  butter  2  cups  finely  chopped  raisins 

2  cups  sugar  1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

1  cup  sweet  milk  1  teaspoon  allspice 

3  cups  Melrose  flour  1  teaspoon  cloves 

Flavor  with  Sauer's  vanilla.    Put  together  with  cocoanut  filling. 

Filling 

3  cups  sugar  (large  cups)  3  eggs  (whites) 

Cook  sugar  and  a  little  water  until  it  spins  a  heavy  thread  and  pour  on 
beaten  whites,  then  put  on  layers  with  cocoanut  between  and  all  around 
it.    It  takes  2  large  cocoanuts. — Fannie  Bennett. 

JAPANESE  CAKE 

One  cup  butter,  two  cups  sugar,  three  cups  Melrose  flcur,  si^tod  several 
times,  four  eggs,  one  cup  milk,  one  teaspoon  baking  powder  (Royal),  one 
teaspoon  lemon  juice.  Divide  batter  in  three  parts,  bake  two  layers  plain  and 
to  the  other  third  add  one  cup  seeded  raisins,  one  teaspoon  each  allspice, 
cinnamon  and  Sauer's  vanilla,  and  a  little  dark  molasses. 

Filling:  Use  any  good  cream  or  caramel  filling,  add  one  cup  grated  pine- 
apple (syrup  well  pressed  out). — Mrs.  A.  D.  Griffin. 

PLAIN  CAKE  WITH  NUT  AND  RAISIN  FILLING 

f>  eggs  1  cup  milk 

2  cups  sugar  4  cups  Melrose  flour 

1  cup  butter  2  teaspoons  Royal  baking  powder 

Flavor  with  Sauer's  vanilla.    Bake  in  pie  tins. 

Icing 

3  cups  sugar  1  cup  raisins 

3  eggs  (whites)  V2  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar 

1  cup  English  walnuts  1  teaspoon  corn  starch 

Flavor  with  Sauer's  vanilla.  Cook  sugar  and  a  little  water  until  it  spins 
a  heavy  thread,  then  add  corn  starch  and  cream  of  tartar,  and  then  the  nuts 
and  raisins. — Ethel  B.  Dunlap. 

PECAN  CAKE 

2  lbs.  raisins  1  lb.  Melrose  flour 
2  lbs.  pecans  (before  shelled)  1  nutmeg 

V2  lb.  butter  1  glass  grape  juice 

V2  doz.  eggs  1  tablespoon  cinnamon 

1  lb.  sugar  1  tablespoon  Royal  baking  powder 

Mix  as  fruit  cake  and  bake  slowly. — Mrs.  W.  K.  Boggan. 


108 


—  GOOD  MEALS  —  HOME  COOKING  —  THE  NATIONAL  HOTEL  — 


CREAM  CAKE 

2  cups  sugar  1  cup  milk 

2  heaping  cups  Melrose  flour  1  eggs 

Butter  twice  size  of  an  egg  2  teaspoons  Royal  baking  yowder 

Filling 

2  cups  milk.  2  tablespoons  corn  starch  beaten  with  little  milk,  and  stirred 
in  slowly  when  milk  comes  to  a  boil.  Cook  a  minute,  then  add  one  cu;j 
sugar,  small  piece  butter  and  stir  in  two  well-beaten  eggs.  Flavor  with 
Sauer's  vanilla. — Mrs.  Walter  Thomas  Rose. 

APPLE  SAUCE  CAKE 

1  cup  sugar  1  teaspoon  cloves 

%  cup  butter  2  eggs                1  teaspoon  nutmeg 

1  cup  apple  sauce  l%-2  cups  Melrose  flour 

1  teaspoon  soda  1  can  raisins 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon  1  can  nuts  chopped  fine 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  well-beaten  eggs.  Mix  soda  with  the  apples. 
Sift  spices  with  flour  and  add  together  with  raisins  and  nuts.  Makes  a 
stiff  mixture.  Can  be  cooked  in  a  loaf  or  in  layers,  and  put  together  with 
white  icing. — Mrs.  John  Spencer. 

ONE  EGG  CAKE 

2  cups  Melrose  flour  1  teaspoon  Royal  baking  pwoder 
1  cup  sugar                                        1  egg 

3  tablespoons  butter  Milk 

Sift  flour,  baking  powder  and  sugar  together.  Rub  in  shortening.  Break 
egg  in  cup,  add  enough  sweet  milk  to  fill  cup.  Add  to  dry  ingredients  and 
beat  well.    Flavor  with  Sauer's  vanilla.    Cook  in  layers  or  loaf. 

— Mrs.  R.  S.  Beeman. 

SPANISH  BUN 

V2  pound  butter  6  eggs 

1  pound  sugar  1  cup  sweet  milk  or  cream 

1  quart  Melrose  flour  2  teaspoons  cream  of  tartar 

Flavor  with  fresh  orange  extract.  One  teaspoon  soda  in  tiny  bit  of  milk 
or  tepid  water  last  thing.  Bake  one  inch  thickness  in  two  biscuit  pans. 
Use  boiled  icing,  made  of  3  cups  sugar,  3  egg  whites,  %  cup  water.  Flavor 
with  Sauer's  vanilla.  Original  recipe  brought  from  Nashville,  Tenn,  in  1882, 
by  the  late  Mrs.  R.  T.  Bennett.    Supplied  by  her  daughter,  Mrs.  J.  D.  Leak. 


109 


—  GOOD  MEALS  —  HOME  COOKING  —  THE  NATIONAL  HOTEL  — 


BLACKBERRY  JAM  CAKE 


One  and  two-thirds  cups  granulated 
sugar 

Two-thirds  cup  butter 
1  cup  jam 
Vz  cup  nuts 

Two-thirds  cup  sour  milk 


1  heaping  teaspoon  soda 
1  nutmeg 

IV2  teaspoons  mixed  spices 
4  eggs 

1  cup  raisins 

3  cups  Melrose  flour 


Bake  in  loaf  or  layers.  Use  boiled  icing  or  cream  filling. — Bessie  Covington. 


BLACKBERRY  CAKE 


1  cup  butter  1  cup  sugar 

1  cup  blackberry  jam 

2  teaspoons  Royal  baking  powder 
4  eggs 


2  cups  flour  (Melrose) 
V2  cup  warm  water 
1  teaspoon  each  spice,  cloves,  nut- 
meg and  cinnamon 


Mix  all  ingredients  in  the  usual  manner  and  bake  in  three  layers.  Use 
either  caramel  or  cream  filling. — Mrs.  Bob  Beeman. 


UPSIDE-DOWN  CAKE 


First  Mixture:  Second  Mixture: 

3  tablespoons  butter  1  cup  sugar 

1  cup  brown  sugar  t2  cups  self  rising  flour — Melrose 

1  cup  nuts  2  eggs 

1  cup  diced  pineapple  V2  cup  milk 

1  cup  dates  1  cup  cherries  %  cup  butter 


Put  ingredients  of  first  mixture  into  iron  skillet — melting  butter  and 
blending  well  with  brown  sugar  before  adding  nuts  and  fruits,  which  should 
be  spread  in  even  layers  one  upon  another.  Make  a  batter  of  ingredients 
of  second  mixture  and  pour  over  the  first.  Bake  25  minutes  in  a  moderate 
oven  (350  degrees).    Serve  with  whipped  cream,  if  desired. 

—Mrs.  J.  F.  Spencer. 

MOLASSES  CAKE 


2  eggs  2  cups  full  Melrose  flour 

%  cup  sugar  1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

%  cup  molasses  1  teaspoon  Sauer's  vanilla 

%  cup  butter  1  square  chocolate 

%  cup  butter  milk  1  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  milk 


Bake  in  slow  oven. — Mrs.  W.  K.  Boggan. 

110 


—  GOOD  MEALS  —  HOME  COOKING  —  THE  NATIONAL  HOTEL  - 


WHIPPED  CREAM  C  AKE 


5  eggs  well  beaten  2  rounded  teaspoons  Royal  baking 

1  tumbler  sugar  powder 

1  tumbler  of  flour -  Melrose  1  teaspoon  Sauer's  vanilla 

Beat  eggs  well;  add  sugar  slowly,  then  add  flour.    Bake  in  3  layers. 

Filling 

1  pint  cream  1  small  bottle  Maraschino  cherries, 

J/4  lb.  almonds  chopped  fine  chopped  fine- 

Whip  cream  and  add  cherries  and  nuts,  spread  between  layers,  on  top  and 
sides. — Mrs.  E.  A.  Allen. 


SOFT  GINGER  BREAD 


x/2  cup  sugar 

a2  cup  butter 

1  cup  black  molasses 

1  teaspoon  each  ginger,  cinnamon 


Vz  teaspoon  cloves 

1  teaspoon  soda,  dissolved  in  %  cup 

boiling  water 
2x/2  cups  Melrose  flour 


Add  2  well-beaten  eggs  last  of  all.  Bake  in  pie  pans;  serve  hot  for  dinner. 
This  is  excellent. — Mrs.  W.  P.  Parsons. 


OLD  TIME  POUND  CAKE 


1  lb.  sugar  1  lb.  Melrose  flour 

I  lb.  butter  12  eggs  (whites)       8  eggs  (yolks) 

Sift  flour  four  times.  Cream  flour  and  butter  together,  then  add  sugar 
and  cream  all  together  good.  Add  egg  whites  that  have  been  well  beaten, 
then  add  yolks  of  eggs  that  have  been  beaten  until  lemon  color.  Flavor  to 
taste. — Mrs.  L.  S.  Hart. 

POUND  CAKE 

1  To.  butter  1  scant  cup  sweet  milk 

1  lb.  Melrose  flour  1  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar 

1  lb.  sugar  11  eggs  V2  teaspoon  soda 

Sift  flour  with  cream  of  tartar  and  soda;  cream  sugar  and  butter,  mix 
yolks  (well  beaten),  add  milk,  add  flour  with  cream  of  tartar  well  mixed  in 
it;  fold  in  whites.    Bake  in  a  moderate  oven.    Flavor  to  taste. 

— Miss  Annie  Knotts. 

AUNT  TINNIE  DUNLAP  S  SPONGE  CAKE 

10  eggs  Weight  of  eggs  in  sugar      %  weight  of  eggs  in  flour 

Separate  eggs,  add  sugar  gradually  to  yolks,  and  cream  until  light  and 
fluffy.  Add  flour,  then  beat  whites  thoroughly  and  add  last.  Bake  in 
medium  oven. — Miss  Johnsie  Dunlap. 


Ill 


Royal  Cleaners — Branches:     Wadesboro,  Rockingham,  Laurinburg,  Hamlet 


CARAMEL  CAKE 

4  eggs  3  cups  Melrose  flour 

2  cups  sugar  1  cup  water 

Two-thirds  cup  Wesson  oil  1  teaspoon  Sauer's  vanilla 

Mix  in  Universal  cake  mixer  in  order  given,  turning  continuously  until 
smooth.    Bake  in  two  layers  in  oiled  paper  tins. 

Caramel  Filling 

4  cups  Franklin  brown  sugar  1  cup  butter 

1  cup  sweet  or  Carnation  milk  Teaspoon  Sauer's  vanilla 

Let  sugar  and  milk  come  to  boiling  point  over  hot  burner,  stirring  vigor- 
ously all  the  time.  Let  boil  5  mins.  without  stirring.  Remove  from  fire 
and  let  cool,  then  beat  until  it  is  of  the  right  consistency,  stirring  in  th^ 
butter  which  has  been  melted;  add  vanilla.  (If  filling  is  not  sufficiently 
brown,  add  enough  chocolate  to  make  it  so.) — Mrs.  T.  L.  Caudle. 

Small  (Takes 


ALMOND  CAKES 


Two-thirds  pound  butter 
V2  pound  sugar 
1  pound  flour 


Va  pound  almonds 

1  whole  egg  and  yolk  of  another 

Sauer's  lemon  extract 


Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  eggs  and  flavoring,  then  the  flour,  worked  in 
with  a  knife,  using  the  hands  at  the  last  to  make  the  dough  pliable.  Take 
about  one-fourth  of  the  dough  at  a  time,  roll  very  thin  and  cut  into  strips, 
about  four  inches  long,  one  and  one-half  inches  wide  and  place  in  biscuit  pan. 
Brush  over  with  the  remaining  egg  white,  slightly  beaten,  and  cover  with 
the  almonds,  chopped  and  mixed  with  sugar.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  until 
uniformly  brown. — Mrs.  Jas.  A.  Hardison. 

CORN  STARCH  CAKES 

%  lb.  butter  6  eggs    1  pkg.  corn  starch 

%  lb,  sugar,  heavy  weight  1  tablespoon  Sauer's  vanilla 

Elbow  grease,  patty  pans. — Mrs.  R.  E.  Little. 

SOUTHERN  TEAS 

4  eggs  4  cups  Melrose  flour,  or  more  to 

2  cups  sugar     1  cup  butter  make  a  soft  dough 

1  even  teaspoon  soda  1  teaspoon  Sauer's  vanilla 

Roll  thin  and  cut  with  biscuit-cutter.  Sprinkle  a  little  sugar  on  top.  Nice 
with  cinnamon  too.    Delicious  with  tea  or  hot  chocolate. — Mrs.  W.  A.  Smith. 


112 


Royal  Cleaners — Branches:    Wadesboro,  Rockingham,  Lanrinburg,  Hamlet 


DOUGHNUTS 


2  eggs 

1  cup  sugar 

V2  eup  butter 


%  cup  buttermilk  (or  soured) 
1  teaspoon  soda 

Melrose  flour  sufficient  for  dough 


Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  well  beaten  eggs  and  milk.  Sift  soda  into 
flour,  using  sufficient  flour  to  make  soft  dough  when  added  to  sugar,  butter 
and  eggs.  Roll  out  and  cut  into  any  desired  shape.  Cook  in  deep  fat  in  a  fry- 
ing basket,  turning  constantly.  Drain  on  absorbent  paper;  when  cold  dusi 
with  powdered  sugar. — Mrs.  J.  B.  Ingram. 


-FRIDAY  CAKES 


2  eggs    1  cup  sugar  Cinnamon,  Salt 

1  cup  sweet  milk  4  cups  Melrose  flour  (if  plain,  use  2 

1  tablespoon  shortening  teaspoons  Royal  baking  powder) 

Gradually  work  in  enough  flour  to  roll  out  on  board.  Cut  with  doughnut 
cutter,  fry  in  hot  lard,  deep  enough  for  cake  to  swim.  Test  hot  lard  by  a 
small  bit  of  dough,  it  must  immediately  come  to  top  and  underside  begin  to 
brown,  turn  over.    When  cool,  sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar. 

— Mrs.  Claude  Porter. 


OAT    MEAL  COOKIES 


2  cups  rolled  oats  1  scant  teaspoon  soda 

2  cups  Melrose  flour  4  tablespoons  butter  milk 

1  cup  sugar  1  heaping  teaspoon  cinnamon 

1  cup  butter  I  pinch  of  salt 

1  cup  raisins     2  eggs  V2  teaspoon  Sauer's  vanilla 


Cream  butter  and  sugar;  add  beaten  eggs  and  milk,  then  all  dry  ingredients 
and  drop  with  a  spoon  on  a  greased  pan,  bake  in  moderate  oven. 

— Mrs.  George  Dunlap. 


DEVIL'S  FOOD  WAFFLES. 

%  cup  butter,  creamed  with  1  cup      IV2  cups  flour 

sugar  2  teaspoons  of  baking  powder 

2  well  beaten  eggs    V2  cup  milk  Pinch  of  salt 


Beat  the  batter  hard.  Melt  two  squares  of  chocolate,  and  pour  this  into  the 
batter  with  1  teaspoonful  vanilla  and  a  pinch  of  cinnamon.  Bake  in  your 
electric  iron  and  serve  at  once  with  whipped  cream.  Flavored  and  sweetened, 
or  with  chocolate  sauce  or  sprinkled  with  powdered  sugar  and  cinnamon 
mixed  together.  They  are  also  delicious  made  into  marshmallow  sandwich' s 
for  tea.    Just  put  two  together  hot  with  fresh  marshmallows  between. 

— Miss  Helen  Leath. 


113 


Royal  Cleaners — Branches:     Wadesboro,  Rockingham,  Laurinburg,  Hamlet 


SNOOKUM  COOKIES 


2  eggs 

1  cup  sugar 

V2  cup  butter 

1  cup  finely  chopped  nuts 


V2  cup  milk 
2  cups  flour 

1  teaspoon  Royal  baking  powder 
1  teaspoon  vanilla 


Do  not  use  more  than  scant  tablespoon  of  batter  to  each  cake,  and  place 
one  or  two  raisins  on  top.    Allow  space  as  they  spread. — Mrs.  M.  B.  Leath. 


DATE  ROCKS 


2  cups  sugar 

1  cup  butter 

4  eggs    2  boxes  dates 

V2  lb.  English  walnut  meats 


2  teaspoons  cinnamon 

V2  teaspoon  soda 

V2  teaspoon  cream  of  tarter 

4  cups  Melrose  flour 


Sift  dry  ingredients  together,  cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  well  beaten 
eggs.  Cut  dates  in  quarters  and  nuts  in  small  pieces;  add  flour,  dates  and 
nuts.  Drop  with  a  teaspoon  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  No  water  or  milk 
required. —  Mrs.  Jas.  A.  Leak. 


GINGER  SNAPS 


1  cup  sugar 
1  cup  molasses 
1  cup  butter 


1  teaspoon  ginger 
1  tablespoon  vinegar 
1  teaspoon  soda 


Mix  sugar,  molasses  and  butter;  add  vinegar  and  ginger.  Sift  four  cuns 
Melrose  flour  with  soda;  add  mixed  ingredients  to  flour,  making  a  stiff  dough. 
Cut  into  shape  and  bake  in  moderate  hot  oven. — Mrs.  J.  W.  Thomas. 


PLUNKETTS 


1  cup  butter 
1  cup  sugar 


6  eggs 


V2  cup  Melrose  flour 


%  cup  of  corn  starch 

2  teaspoons  Royal  baking  powder 

1  teaspoon  Sauar's  vanilla 


Cream  butter,  add  sugar,  beating  until  foamy.  Beat  whites  of  eggs  until 
dry,  and  yolks  until  light  colored,  and  thick;  pour  yolks  over  whites,  cut  and 
fold  together.  Sift  twice  together  the  flour,  corn  starch  and  baking  powder. 
Add  the  beaten  eggs  to  butter  and  sugar  gradually,  then  add  dry  ingredients 
and  the  vanilla.    Bake  in  individual   tins,  buttered.    Ice  as  desired. 

— Mrs.  Frank  E.  Covington, 

"BESS  TEACAKE" 

3  3ggs  well  beaten  1  cup  shortening 

cups  sugar  Q^s.  Melrose  flour 

teaspoons  Royal  baking  powder         %  teaspoon  salt 
2  tablespoons  milk  or  orange  juice. 

Roll  the  dough  very  thin  and  cut.  Sprinkle  with  cinnamon  and  sugar. 
Bake  quickly.— Mrs.  U.  B.  Blalock,  Raleigh,  N.  C. 


Royal  Cleaners — Branches:     \\  adesboro,   Rockingham,   Laurinburg,  Hamlet 


RUSSIAN  ROCKS 


3  eggs 

1  cup  butter 

IV2  cups  sugar    3*/2  cups  flour 
V2  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  2  tea- 
spoons water 


1  cup  raisins,  chopped  fine 
1  cup  nuts,  chopped  fine 
V'i  teaspoon  cinnamon 
x/2  teaspoon  cloves 
V2  teaspoon  nutmeg 


Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  well  beaten  eggs,  flour,  nuts,  spices  and  soda. 
Drop  small  portions,  well  spaced  on  buttered  pan  and  bake  in  moderate  oven. 

— Mrs.  J.  B.  Ingram. 

DROPPED  COOKIES 


V2  cup  butter 

1  cup  sugar 

2  eggs 

V2  cup  milk 

1  teaspoon  ground  cinnamon 


V2  cup  molasses 

1  cup  raisins 

3  cups  Melrose  flour 

2  teaspoons  Royal  baking  powder 
V2  teaspoon  ground  cloves 


Beat  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream.  Add  the  well  beaten  eggs,  then  the 
milk,  molasses  and  raisins,  lastly,  dry  ingredients,  well  sifted  together.  Drop 
small  spoonfuls  on  greased  pans,  some  distance  apart.  Bake  in  moderate  ovea 
about  ten  minutes. — Mrs.  H.  B.  Allen.  , 

"MOTHER   HARMAN'S"   ICE  BOX  COOKIES 


3  eggs,  well  beaten 

1  cup  white  sugar 

1  cup  brown  sugar    1  cup  butter 

1  teaspoon  Sauer's  vanilla 

Nutmeg  to  taste 


1  level  teaspoon  soda  in  tablespoon 

hot  water 
6  Mi  cups  Melrose  flour 
1  cup  raisins 
1  cup  chopped  nuts 


Make  in  two  long  rolls  and  keep  in  ice  box  over  night,  slice  and  bake  in 
moderate  oven. — Mrs.  V.  Harman,  Wadesboro  and  Lynchburg. 

FRUIT  JUMBLES 


1  cup  butter 
3  eggs 

2  cups  chopped  raisins 

Work  in  flour  to  rolling  consistencv 


1  teaspoon  soda 

2  tablespoons  butter  milk 
All  kinds  of  spices 

cut  out  and  bake  in  moderate  oven. 

— Johnsie  Dunlan. 


DATE  BARS 


volks 


2  whole  eggs  or  4 
1  cup  sugar 

3  tablespoons  boiling  water 


1  package  dates  , (chopped)  ' 
1  cup  black  walnuts  or  pecans 
2V2  teaspoons  Royal  baking  pov 
1  teaspoon  Sauer's  vanilla 

Beat  eggs  and  sugar  until  creamy,  then  add  water,  dates,  nuts,  and  fjour. 
Cook  about  twenty  minutes.    When  cool,  cut  in  bars  and,  roll  in  sugari*Jr 

—Mrs.  Earl  \WiVfcirtm. 


Royal  Cleaners — Branches:     Wadesboro,  Rockingham,  Laurinburg,  Hamlet 


Hcin^s  and  JilUn^s 


CHOCOLATE  FILLING 

2  cups  of  brown  sugar  XA  teaspoon  of  soda 

1  cup  of  white  sugar  1  cup  of  sweet  milk 
Butter  the  size  of  an  egg                     2  squares  of  chocolate 

Cook  until  it  forms  soft  ball  when  dropped  in  cold  water. — Mrs.  T.  C.  Coxe. 

CREAM  FILLING 

Mix  XA  cup  corn  starch  and  1  cup  of  sugar;  add  yolks  of  2  eggs,  slightly 
beaten;  2  cups  scalded  milk  and  1  teaspoon  butter.  Cook  in  double  boiler  20 
minutes,  stirring  constantly.  Cool.  Add  one-third  teaspoon  salt,  xk  teaspoon 
each  of  vanilla  and  lemon  extract.    Use  as  filling  for  cake  or  pastry. 

— Bessie  Covington. 

LEMON  JELLY  FILLING 

Vz  cup  of  butter  8  eggs  (yolks) 

2  cups  of  sugar  2  small  lemons,  grated  rind  &  juke 

Put  all  in  pan  over  slow  fire  and  cook  until  thick,  stirring  all  the  time.  Pour 
all  into  a  jar  and  cover  until  wanted,  as  it  will  keep  several  weeks. 

—Mrs.  W.  A.  Smith. 

MOCHA  FILLING  AND  FROSTING 

6  tablespoons  of  butter  4  tablespoons  dry  cocoa 

2  cups  of  confectioner's  sugar  3  tablespoons  liquid  coffee 

1  teaspoon  Sauer's  vanilla  extract. 

Beat  butter  to  a  cream,  adding  one  cup  of  sugar,  then  sift  and  add  the 
cocoa.  Beat  well.  Put  in  the  coffee  and  remaining  sugar,  then  the  vanilia. 
Spread  between  layers  and  on  ton  of  layer  cake. — Mrs.  J.  W.  Morris. 


BOILED  ICING 

Vs  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar  3  cups  sugar 

3  egg  whites  1  cup  boiling  water 

Put  sugar,  water,  and  cream  of  tartar  in  stew  pan  and  cover.  Cook  until 
syrup  spins  a  good  thread.  Cool  slightly  and  pour  over  stiffly  beaten  whites. 
Beat  until  right  consistency  to  spread  on  cake. — Mrs.  H.  B.  Covington. 


116 


 FOR  STYLE  AND  COMFORT  DRIVE  AN  ESSEX  OK  HUDSON   


COCO  \ NTT  ICING 


3  cups  of  white  sugar 
3  eggs  (whites) 


1  cup  of  boiling  water 

3  tablespoons  of  white  Karo 


Dissolve  sugar  in  water  before  starting  to  boil,  then  when  syrup  starts  boil- 
ing, begin  beating  eggs.  As  soon  as  eggs  begin  to  rise,  begin  adding  boiling 
syrup,  a  few  spoonfuls  at  a  time,  beating  all  the  time  until  you  have  used 
about  half  the  syru ~,  then  let  last  half  cook  until  it  threads,  then  pour  all  ill 
slowly.  Add  one  teaspoon  Sauer's  vanilla.  If  icing  gets  too  stiff  before  us- 
ing, add  a  little  hot  water.    Always  use  two  cocoanuts  for  a  four  layer  cake. 

— Mrs.  Francis  P.  Boylin. 


IDEAL  FROSTING 


2V2  cups  of  sugar 

x/2  cup  of  light  corn  syrup 

V2  cup  of  water 

2  eggs  (whites) 


tract 

a/2  teaspoon  of  Sauer's  vanilla 
M  teaspoon  of  salt 


Mix  the  sugar,  corn  syrup  and  water;  cook  without  stirring  to  238  F. 
(thread);  pour  in  a  thin  stream  over  the  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites,  beating 
continuously.  When  the  mixture  begins  to  cool,  add  the  salt  and  the  extracts; 
beat  until  it  is  thick  enough  to  hold  its  shape,  otherwise  it  will  not  stay  on 
the  cake. — Mrs.  J.  F.  Lowrance. 

CHOCOLATE  FUDGE  ICING 


3V2  cups  granulated  sugar 
IV2  cups  sweet  milk 
14  lb.  butter 


One-fifth  lb.  chocolate 
1  teaspoon  Sauer's  vanilla 
Whites  of  2  eggs 


Boil  the  sugar,  milk,  butter  and  chocolate  together  until  it  will  form  a 
ball  when  dropped  in  cold  water.  Remove  from  fire  and  pour  slowly  over 
the  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites,  beating  constantly  until  the  right  consistency 
to  spread  on  cakes.    This  makes  enough  for  4  layers. — Mrs.  McLean  B.  Leath. 

FRUIT  FILLING  FOR  CAKES 


2  cups  sugar 

3  tablespoons  Melrose  flour 


cup  water 


3  eggs 


Three  large  bananas,  one  can  grated  pineapple  or  two  cups  grated  cocoa- 
nut  can  be  used.  Flavor  with  one  teaspoon  lemon  juice  or  Sauer's  vanilla 
extract.  Boil  sugar  and  water  until  it  spins  a  thread.  Pour  over  tha 
fruit,  flour  and  eggs  well  mixed.  Return  to  the  stove  ana  cook  for  several 
minutes.    Stir  to  keep  from  burning.    When  filling  cools,  spread  on  cake. 

—Mrs.  T.  R.  Troutmnn. 


117 


FOR  SHORTENING,  FRYING,  SALAD  DRESSING  USE  WESSON  OIL 


v) 


FUDGE 


2  cups  sugar  Butter  size  of  an  egg 

Y2  cup  cocoa  1  teaspoon  Sauer's  vanilla 

1  cup  milk  Dash  cinnamon 

Mix  sugar,  cocoa  and  milk  and  let  cook  until  it  comes  to  a  boil,  add  butter 
and  let  cook  until  a  few  drops  in  water  makes  a-  hard  ball.  Remove  from 
fire,  add  vanilla  and  cinnamon.  Let  cool,  beat  and  pour  into  a  buttered 
dish.    Slice  when  cold. — Mrs.  C.  H.  Sutherland. 

COCOANUT  DELIGHT 

3  cups  sugar  Vs  lb.  butter 
1  medium  sized  cocoanut                       3A  cup  milk 

Cook  ingredients  until  a  soft  ball  is  formed  in  cold  water.    Beat  until 

creamy  and  pour  in  greased  pan.  Cut  in  squares  when  cold. — Grace  Allen. 

CHOCOLATE  FUDGE  DIVINE 

1  lb.  brown  sugar  1  cup  sweet  milk 

hi  lb.  butter  %  cake  chocolate  (large) 

3  cups  nut  meats  2  teaspoons  Sauer's  vanilla 

Cook  sugar,  milk,  butter  and  chocolate  together  until  a  soft  ball  forms  in 
cold  water.  Remove  from  fire,  add  nuts  and  vanilla  and  beat  until  creamy. 
Drop  in  balls. 

DIVINITY  FUDGE 

4  cups  of  sugar  %  cup  of  Karo 
V2  cup  of  water  (hot)                           2  egg  whites 

Cook  sugar,  karo  and  water  in  -a  shallow  pot  until  the  syrup  forms  a  firm 
ball  in  cold  water.  Pour  over  well-beaten  whites,  stirring  constantly.  Beac 
until  it  drops  from  the  spoon  in  balls.    Nuts  may  be  used  if  desired. 

CHOCOLATE  FUDGE 

2  cups  brown  sugar  1  small  can  Carnation  milk 
1  cup  white  sugar                                Butter  size  of  an  egg 

Ct»ok  sugar  and  milk  together  until  it  forms  a  soft  ball  when  dropped  int.:> 
cold  water,  then  add  butter.  Let  cool  about  5  minutes,  then  beat  well  until 
cool  enough  to  pour  into  dish.  Flavor  with  Sauer's  vanilla  while  hot.  if 
liked,  shelled  pecans  may  be  added. — Mrs.  W.  H.  Carter. 


118 


FOR  SHORTENING,  PRYING,  SALAD  DRESSING   USE  WESSON  Oil. 


y        TWO  MINUTE  FUDGE 

4  cups  of  white  Lugar  3  tablespoons  of  -ocoa  1  cup  of  milk. 

Mix  and  let  come  to  an  all-over  boil  and  boil  for  2  minutes.  Pour  in 
platter  in  which  has  been  chopped  XA  pound  butter.  Let  cool,  beat  and  drop  on 
buttered  surface. — Mrs.  C.  N.  Ingram,  Darlington,  N.  C. 


CANDIED  GRAPE  FRUIT  PEEL 


Soak  the  rinds  of  2  grape  fruits,  which  have  been  cut  into  strips,  over 
night  in  cold  aAer.  Drain  and  cook  in  boiling  water  30  minutes.  Drain 
again  and  coo  ±or  15  minutes  longer  in  boiling  water.  Finally,  drain  off 
all  water  and  add  2  cups  sugar  to  the  grapefruit,  which  will  form  a  syrup. 
Stir  this  frequently  and  boil  until  the  syrup  has  almost  cooked  away.  Remove 
from  stove  and  roll  in  granulated  sugar. — Miss  Elizabeth  D.  Horne. 

TAFFY  CANDY 

2  cups  sugar  %  cup  water  J4  cup  vinegar 

Boil  all  together  until  it  forms  a  hard  ball  when  dropped  in  cold  water. 
Pour  in  buttered  dish  until  cool  enough  to  pull. — Mrs.  J.  W.  Morris. 


KISSES 


G  whites  of  eggs  3  teaspoons  vinegar 

2  cups  sugar  1  tablespoon  Sauer's  vanilla 

Beat  eggs  stiff,  add  sugar  gradually,  then  vinegar  and  vanilla.  Bake  1 
hour  in  muffin  tins  over  water.  Cut  off  tops,  fill  center  with  ice  creair), 
whipped  cream  or  custard.    Replace  tops. 

CARAMEL  CANDY 

4V2  cups  brown  sugar  V2  cup  Karo 

1  cup  milk      1  cup  nut  meats  1  heaping  tablespoon  butter 

Mix  and  cook  until  it  forms  a  good  soft  ball  in  cold  water.  Set  in  pan 
of  cold  water  until  almost  cool,  without  stirring.  Then  beat  until  creamy  and 
thick.    Add  nuts  and  pour  into  greased  platter;  cut  in  squares  when  cold. 

— Elizabeth  Allen. 

PULLED  CREAM  MINTS 

3  cups  sugar  Water  to  dissolve  sugar  3  tablespoons  butter 

Boil  rapidly  until  done  enough  to  spin  a  thread.  Turn  out  on  marble  slab, 
flavor  with  a  few  drops  oil  of  mint.  Pull  until  stiff,  pull  out  on  table  and 
cut  in  pieces  with  shears.    When  hard,  put  in  closely  covered  jar  to  cream. 

—Mrs.  T.  J.  Fetxer. 


119 


FOR  SHORTENING,  FRYING,  SALAD  DRESSING  USE  WESSON  OIL 


COCOANUT  CANDY 

6  cups  sugar  2  cups  water 

Three  eggs  Pinch  salt 

Mix  well,  boil  without  stirring  until  spins  heavy  thread.  Add  to  whites 
three  eggs,  1  tablespoon  sugar,  XA  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar,  6  drops  glycerine. 
Pour  syrup  over  eggs;  beat  until  almost  cold.  Add  one  fresh  cocoanut,  or 
can,  one  teaspoon  Sauer's  vanilla.    Pour  on  buttered  dish,  cool  and  cut. 

— Miss  Bessie  Dockery. 

PATIENCE 

2  cups  sugar  xh  cup  nuts  (chopped  fine) 

1  cup  milk  1  teaspoon  Sauer's  vanilla 

1  tablespoon  butter  1  cup  sugar 

Melt  the  one  cup  of  sugar  in  a  frying  pan,  over  strong  heat,  stirring  con 
stantly  until  a  rich  golden  syrup  is  obtained.  In  the  meantime,  put  the  two 
cups  of  sugar,  milk  and  butter  in  a  saucepan  over  fire  and  cook  slowly, 
stirring  occasionally.  When  the  syrup  is  ready  (golden  brown)  pour  slowly 
into  the  other  mixture,  which  should  have  come  to  a  boil.  Cook  to  soft  ball 
stage.  Remove  from  fire,  add  nuts  and  vanilla,  beat  until  creamy  and  pour 
in  well-greased  pan.    Mark  in  squares  when  almost  cool. 

— Mrs.  Fred  Helms,  Albemarle,  N.  C. 

SALTED  ALMONDS 

xk  pound  almonds  Salt  to  taste  1  tablespoon  butter 

Shell,  blanch  and  dry  the  almonds.  Heat  butter,  add  almonds  and  cook  to 
a  delicate  brown.  Stir  constantly  to  keep  from  burning.  Drain  almonds, 
dry  on  soft  paper  and  sprinkle  with  salt. — Mrs.  B.  F.  Bray. 


120 


  FOR  STYLE  AND  COMFORT  DRIVE  AN  ESSEX  OR  HUDSON   


Jpickles 

ICED  TOM  ATO  PICK LE — DELICIOI  S 

Into  two  gallons  water  put  one  quart  slacked  lime  and  fill  vessel  with 
large  green  tomatoes,  peeled  and  sliced.  Let  this  stand  24  hours,  weigh 
and  for  each  7  lbs.  tomatoes  boil  together  4%  lbs.  sugar,  V2  gallon  vinegar, 
cloves,  cinnamon  and  allspice.  Pour  over  tomatoes  and  let  stand  24  hours, 
then  boil  all  together  20  minutes.    Does  not  need  sealing  and  keeps  well. 

— Mrs.  John  Griggs. 


HYDEN  SALAD 

1  gal.  or  6  lbs.  cabbage  1  pint  onions 

Mj  gal  green  tomatoes  %  cup  green  peppers 


Chop  all  vegetables,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  let  stand  1  hour.  Squeeze  out 
water  and  let  come  to  a  boil  in  3  pints  vinegar,  2  lbs.  sugar,  lightly  spiced 
with  cloves,  spices  and  cinnamon.    Put  in  jars  and  seal. — Mrs.  W.  C.  Huntley. 


SLICED  GREEN  TOMATO  PICKLES 


8  lbs.  green  tomatoes,  slices  V2  inch  thick 


Soak  for  12  hours  in^  gal.  cold  water  and  2  handfuls  of  lime.  Wash  and 
scak  for  12  hours  in  clear  water,  then  12  hours  in  a  strong  alum  water  or 
enough  alum  in  water  to  taste.  Boil  for  V2  hour  in  plain  water.  Then  boil 
fruit  in  a  strong  ginger  tea.  Cook  until  the  ginger  is  well  into  the  fruit. 
Drain  the  fruit  and  put  into  crock,  pour  over  the  fruit  a  heavy  syrup  made  of: 
1  lb.  sugar  to  each  lb.  tomatoes        1  oz.  whole  mace  3  pts.  water 

The  next  morning  add  IV2  pints  of  vinegar  to  each  8  lbs.  of  tomatoes. 
Cook  until  brittle. — Mrs.  Robert  Randolph  Simmons,  Rockingham,  N.  C. 

DELICIOUS  CHOPPED  PICKLE 

1  doz.  medium  cucumber  pickles  8  ounces  mustard 

2  large  cabbages  3  cups  Melrose  flour 

1  qt.  green  tomatoes  2  tablespoons  celery  seed 

2  onions  2  bunches  celery  2  teaspoons  turmeric 
2  doz.  bell  peppers  %  lb.  butter 

G  qts.  vinegar  15  cups  sugar 

Put  all  vegetables  through  meat  chopper,  using  coarse  blades,  then  pour 
3  qts.  boiling  water  and  1  cup  salt  over  vegetables;  let  stand  over  night. 
Make  a  paste  of  flour,  mustard  and  3  qts.  vinegar;  boil  15  minutes;  add  this 
to  the  remainder  of  vinegar,  then  add  to  vegetables,  spices  and  sugar.  Cook 
for  half  an  hour,  and  just  before  removing  from  fire,  add  butter.  (Delight- 
ful.)— Mrs.  Robert  Randolph  Simmons,  Rockingham,  N.  C. 


121 


ASK  FOR  AND  USE  MELROSE  FLOUR 


RIPE  TOMATO  SWEET  PICKLE 

6  lbs.  tomatoes  4  inches  stick  cinnamon 

3  lbs.  sugar  1  teaspoon  whole  mace 

1  teaspoon  cloves  1  quart  vinegar 

Mix  all  together  and  boil  until  tender,  stirring  constantly.  Cut  up  tomatoes 
after  peeling.    Cook  slowly. — Mrs.  E.  N.  Baker. 

CHOW  CHOW  NO.  1 

1  gal.  green  tomatoes  1  lb.  sugar  (brown) 

1  large  cabbage  1  cup  white  sugar 

1  pt.  onions  }fa  oz.  white  mustard  seed 

5  bell  peppers       4  pts.  vinegar  V2  oz.  celery  seed 

1  tablespoon  turmeric  1  tablespoon  ground  mustard 

Put  through  food  chopper  tomatoes,  cabbage,  onions  and -peppers.  Put: 
bowl  under  chopper  and  use  juice  from  vegetables.  Mix  all  ingredients, 
sprinkle  freely  with  salt,  cook  one  hour  and  seal  hot. 

•   — Mrs.  Ben  I.  Dunlap,  Ansonville,  N.  C. 


CHOW  CHOW  NO.  2 


1  good  sized  cabbage  chopped  fine       V2  as  much  green  tomato,  chopped 
1  pt.  chopped  onion  fine 

Sprinkle  well  with  salt  and  allow  to  stand  several  hours.    Drain  and  add: 

1  tablespoon  celery  seed,  beaten  \xk  lbs.  brown  sugar 

7  tablespoons  ground  mustard  5  cents  worth  of  turmeric 

%  cup  Melrose  flour  3  pts.  vinegar 

Mix  well  and  cook  about  15  minutes. — Mrs.  W.  L.  Little. 

TOMATO  PICKLE 

Into  2  gals,  water  put  1  qt.  slack  lime  and  fill  vessel  with  sliced  green 
tomatoes.  Let  stand  24  hours.  To  7  lbs.  of  tomatoes,  boil  together  V2  gal. 
vinegar,  4V2  lbs.  sugar;  add  cinnamon,  cloves  and  allspice.  Pour  this 
mixture  over  the  tomatoes  and  let  stand  24  -hours.  Then  boil  all  together 
for  twenty  minutes. — Mrs.  M.  L.  Ham,  Morven,  N.  C. 

CHILT  SAUCE 

1  peck  ripe  tomatoes,  peeled  1  tablespoon  cloves 

V2  doz.  large  onions  1  tablespoon  cinnamon 

V2  doz.  red  bell  peppers  1  tablespoon  spice 

Tie  spices  in  a  bag.  Put  on  tomatoes,  onions,  peppers  and  spices,  and  let 
cook  about  20  minutes.  Add  1  quarv  vinegar,  Vz  cup  salt,  1%  lbs.  brown 
sugar;  cook  until  the  mixture  becomes  thick,  being  careful  not  to  burn,  and 
seal  hot. — Mrs.  Ben  I.  Dunlap,  Ansonville,  N.  C. 

122 


  FOR  STYLE  AND  COMFORT  DRIVE  AN  ESSEX  OR  HUDSON   


I'XCOOKEI)  (  HOW  (  HOW 


One-third  pint  white  mustard  seed  V2  oz.  turmeric 

IV2  boxes  ground  mustard  14  pint  olive  oil 

1  cup  salt  2V2  pounds  cabbage 

1  cup  sugar      6  green  peppers  3  quarts  green  tomatoes 

Mix  mustard,  salt,  sugar,  turmeric  and  olive  oil  together.  Chop  cabbage, 
tomatoes  and  peppers  and  scald  with  enough  strong  vinegar  to  cov£r  and 
let  stand  six  hours.  Drain  well,  mix  with  first  mixture  in  a  stone  crock, 
cover  with  fresh  cold  vinegar.  Tie  up  with  good  cloth,  and  after  five  days 
stir  well  and  put  in  jars. — Mrs.  Ben  I.  Dunlap,  Ansonville,  N.  C. 

UNCOOKED  CUCUMBER  PICKLES 

1  qt.  vinegar  %  cup  salt 

1  cup  sugar  14  cup  mustard 

Mix  thoroughly  ""Pack  cucumbers  in  jars  and  fill  with  liquid.  Seal.  This 
makes  two  quarts  of  pickle. — Mrs.  John  Dunlap. 


PEACH  PICKLE 


4  quarts  peaches  3  or  4  sticks  cinnamon 

2  lbs.  sugar  (brown)       Cloves  1V2  pints  vinegar 

Make  a  syrup  of  the  sugar,  vinegar,  cinnamon  and  cloves.  Cook  together 
for  about  20  minutes.  Cook  the  peaches,  a  few  at  a  time,  in  this  syrup  and 
pack  in  jars.    Boil  syrup  down  and  pour  over  them,  and  seal. 

—Mrs.  Tyler  B.  Dunlap,  Ansonville,  N.  C. 

CUCUMBER  MANGOES  (DELICIOUS) 

Soak  in  brine  for  nine  days  as  many  large  green  cucumbers  as  you  wish 
to  use.  Then  let  them  stand  for  forty-eight  hours  in  clear  water.  Cut  a 
slit  in  them,  scocp  out  seed,  wipe  dry  and  fill  with  stoned  raisins,  lemons  cut 
in  long  thin  strips,  and  a  few  whole  cloves.  Tie  up  slit.  Pack  cucumbeis 
in  stone  jar,  cover  with  boiling  syrup  made  by  adding  5  lbs.  of  sugar  to 
1  quart  of  vinegar,  flavored  with  mace,  cloves  and  cinnamon  to  taste.  Re- 
heat syrup  and  pour  boiling  hot  over  cucumbers'  for  nine  successive  days. 

—Mrs.  T.  F.  Stanback,  Mangum,  N.  C. 

TOMATO  SAUCE 

.  3  pts.  tomatoes,  finely  cut  pt.  vinegar 

I  pt.  sugar  1  teaspoon  ground  cloves 

Put  ingredients  in  boile*  over  moderate  fire  and  let  boil  until  it  is  suf- 
ficiently thick.    Seal  hot.— Mrs.  T.  F.  Stanback,  Mangum,  N.  C. 


123 


ASK  FOR  AND  USE  MELROSE  FLOUR 


SUPERIOR  PEACH  PICKLES 


Select  firm,  medium-sized  peaches  of  good  flavor,  preferably  clear  seeded 
as  they  are  more  easily  eaten.  Peel  and  place  in  large  vessel  to  boil,  covering 
them  with  boiling  water,  turning  over  frequently  while  cooking.  Cook  until 
they  can  be  pierced  with  a  fork,  then  place  in  sterilized  jars  (Mj-gal.  size 
best).  After  filling  jars,  invert  so  as  to  drain  all  water  from  peaches. 
Cover  at  once  with  boiling  syrup,  which  has  been  prepared  while  peaches 
are  cooking.  Three  pounds  of  sugar  to  one  quart  of  good  vinegar,  just 
brought  to  boiling  point,  with  whole  cloves  and  allspice,  about  one  table- 
spoon each.    Seal  tight  and  let  stand  several  weeks  before  using. 

— Shelley  Horne  Rose. 


PEPPER  HASH 


1  doz.  sweet  green  peppers  3  level  teaspoons  salt 

1  doz.  sweet  red  peppers  1  qt.  vinegar 

4  large  onions  2  cups  sugar 

Grind  onions  and  peppers,  after  removing  seed;  cover  with  boiling  water 
four  different  times,  draining  well  each  time.  Put  in  sack  and  squeeze  dry. 
Add  salt,  vinegar,  sugar,  and  cook  15  minutes.    Seal  while  hot. 

—Mrs.  T.  L.  Caudle. 


SPANISH  PICKLE 


8  green  bell  peppers  2  medium  cabbages 

1  oz.  white  mustard  seed  V2  gal.  green  tomatoes 

1  oz.  celery  seed  3  doz.  small  onions 

V±  lb.  ground  mustard  IV2  doz.  cucumbers 

Y2  gal.  vinegar  1V2  lbs.  sugar 


Chop  vegetables,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  let  stand  24  hours.  Press  out 
brine,  put  them  in  kettle  with  alternate  layers  of  spices,  and  add  vinegar 
and  sufficient  turmeric  to  cover  it  as  desired.  Boil  about  an  hour  and  put  in 
jars,  not  necessarily  air  tight. — Mrs.  Chas.  M.  Burns. 


WATER  MELON  SWEET  PICKLE 

1  cup  vinegar  V2  gal.  melon  rind 

3  cups  sugar  Cinnamon  and  mace 

"Peel  rind,  cut  in  pieces,  sprinkle  with  salt,  cover  with  boiling  water  and 
let  stand  over  night.  Boil  in  water  with  piece  of  alum  about  the  size  of 
hickory  nut.  Let  stand  until  cool.  Boil  again  in  clear  water  until  tender. 
Plunge  into  cold  water  and  let  stand  a  while.  Drain  well  and  put  into> 
boiling  syrup.  Boil  for  30  or  40  minutes.  Put  in  jars  and  cover  with  syrup. 
Seal. — Mrs.  Judith  S.  Dockery. 


124 


ASK  FOR  AND  USE  M  EL  ROSE  FLOUR 


WATER  MELON  RIND  PICKLE  (DELICIOUS) 

Use  thick  rind,  removing  outside  and  colored  meat.  Cut  into  any  desired 
shape.  Make  strong  salt  solution,  sufficient  to  cover  rind  well.  Soak  rind 
in  this,  well  weighted  down,  for  3  days.  Make  strong  alum  solution,  soak 
rind  in  this  as  above  for  3  days.  Rinse  well  and  soak  in  clear  water  3  days, 
changing  water  each  day.  Boil  in  clear  water,  rapidly  and  continuously, 
until  tender.  Make  syrup  of  the  proportion  , of  2  cups  sugar  and  1  cup 
vinegar,  flavored  with  cinnamon,  spice  and  cloves.  Have  sufficient  quantity 
to  cover  rind  well,  and  boil  in  this  until  the  syrup  is  thick.  If  preferred, 
the  flavorings  may  be  added  whole  and  put  into  the  pickle  as  they  are  put 
in  the  jars.    Seal  while  hot. — Mrs.  J.  B.  Ingram. 

MUSTARD  PICKLE 

1  gallon  chopped  cabbage  V2  gallon  small  onions 

V2  gallon  cucumbers  cut  in  squares  (the  cucumbers  may  be  some  that 
have  been  kept  in  brine.    Soak  thoroughly  before  using) 

1  quart  sweet  green  peppers,  chopped;  sprinkle  salt  over  all  and  let  stand 
over  night.  Take  out  nexc  morning  and  drain.  Add  a  liquor  made  of  Vs 
fresh  water  and  V2  vinegar  and  scald  vegetables  about  5  mins.  Take  out 
and  put  immediately  into  the  following  hot  dressing: 

2  tablespoons  turmeric  1  tablespoon  celery  seed 

2  pounds  sugar  V2  teacup  Melrose  flour  V2  teacup  mustard 

Make  paste  of  all  ingredients  with  a  little  cold  water,  then  add  V2  gallon 
vinegar.  Cook  until  it  thickens,  stirring  all  the  time  to  prevent  lumps 
forming.  Add  the  vegetables  and  cook  for  a  few  minutes.  Seal  while  hcc. 
This  mustard  dressing  may  be  used  with  chopped  red  and  green  peppers 
alone,  and  small  green  tomatoes  cut  in  quarters  may  also  be  used  in  the 
place  of  cucumbers. — Miss  Alice  Boggan. 

PEACH  PICKLE 

4  pounds  sugar  8  pounds  peaches  1  quart  vinegar 

Boil  vinegar,  sugar  and  spices  five  minutes.  Add  a  few  of  the  peaches 
and  boil  until  transparent.  After  all  the  peaches  have  gone  through  this 
process,  pack  in  jars,  then  boil  syrup  until  it  thickens  and  pour  over  fruit 
and  seal.— Mrs.  D.  E.  Gatewood. 


ASK  FOR  AND  USE  MELROSE  FLOUR 


43  reserves 

FIG  CONSERVE. 

4  lemons  (juice)  2  lbs.  seeded  raisins 

7  lbs.  peeled  fig's  4  oranges,  juice  of  two,  rind  of  two 

4  lbs.  white  sugar  1  lb.  pecans  V2  cup  water 

Put  all  on  stove  except  nuts.  Cook  and  stir  until  thick,  add  nuts  ten 
minutes  before'  removing  from  stove.    Put  in  pint  jars. — Mrs.  W.  A.  Smith. 

ORANGE  MARMALADE 

3  oranges  3  lemons 

3  grape  fruit  Sugar. 

Wash  and  cut  fruit  without  peeling.  Remove  seed,  and  put  through  food 
<  hopper,  taking  care  to  catch  all  juice.  To  every  pint  of  fruit  and  juice  arid 
three  pints  water,  and  let  stand  over  night.  Boil  10  minutes,  then  remove 
from  fire  and  let  stand  for  several  hours.  Measure,  and  to  every  pint  of 
fruit,  put  one  pint  of  sugar.    Cook  until  it  jellies. — Mrs.  Geo.  Scott,  Va. 

CRANBERRY  SAUCE. 

1  quart  cranberries  1  pint  water  2  cups  sugar 

Wash  the  cranberries,  add  water  and  put  on  fire  in  covered  sauce  pan. 
Let  simmer  until  each  cranberry  bursts  open;  remove  cover  from  pan,  add 
sugar  and  let  boil  about  twenty  minutes  without  cover.  The  cranberries 
must  not  be  stirred  from  the  time  they  are  placed  on  the  fire. 

— Mrs.  J.  D.  Home. 

SPICKD  FRUITS. 

Usually  made  of  grapes,  apples,  plums,  pears,  and  peaches.  A  standard 
recipe  for  any  of  these  is  as  follows: 

6  lbs.  fruit  ,  1  pint  vinegar 

3  lbs.  sugar  1  lemon  rind 

6  to  10  tablespoons  mixed  spices,  such  as  cinnamon,  allspice,  cloves, 

ginger,  nutmeg- 
Remove  seed,  cores  and  cut  fruit  into  desirable  sizes.  Make  a  syrup  of 
the  vinegar  and  sugar,  tie  the  spices  in  a  small  piece  of  cheesecloth,  and  add 
them  to  the  syrup.  When  the  mixture  begins  to  simmer  add  the  fruit  and 
lemon  rind  and  bring  to  a  boil.  Cook  quickly  and  allow  to  stand  over  night. 
The  next  morning  boil  down  until  it  is  about  like  jam.  Pack  into  jars  and 
seal  while  hot. — Mrs.  Rosalind  Redfcarn. 


125 


FOR  SHORTENING,  FRYING,  SALAD  DRESSING  USE  WESSON  OIL 


STRAWBERRY  PRESERVES. 

Two  quarts  strawberries,  washed,  capped,  and  then  washed  again.  Drain 
well,  weigh,  add  equal  weight  of  sugar.  Scrub  a  dime  clean,  put  all  the 
cream  of  tarter  on  it  you  can  and  add  to  sugar,  mixing  well.  Then  put 
■sugar  on  berries  and  shake,  as  if  you  were  sifting  them.  Put  on  over 
slow  fire  until  juice  starts,  thsn  cook  on  brisk  fire  for  20  minutes.  Turn  on 
shallow  platters  and  let  stand  over  night,  or  until  juice  forms  a  thin  jelly. 
While  standing,  take  a  knife  and  turn  berries.  Do  this  two  or  three  times. 
When  ready,  put  in  jars  cold  and  seal  with  paraffin. — Mrs.  J.  M.  Sloan. 

FIG  PRESERVES. 

Gather  figs  when  just  ripe  and  not  soft,  for  preserves.  The  soft  figs  may 
be  made  into  jam.  Peel  carefully,  trying  not  to  cut  into  seed.  Use  one 
pound  of  sugar  to  each  pound  of  figs  and  the  juice  of  one  lemon  to  each 
four  pounds  of  figs. 

Place  sugar  in  kettle  with  enough  water  to  prevent  sticking.  Stir  occa- 
sionally until  it  begins  to  boil.  Add  the  lemon  juice.  This  will  prevent 
crystals  forming  or  turning  to  sugar.  If  a  lemon  is  not  available,  use  1 
tablespoonful  of  vinegar.  Add  part  of  the  figs  and  cook  until  transparent. 
Take  up  on  platter  and  place  in  the  sun.  Add  more  figs  to  the  syrup  and 
continue  until  all  have  been  coooked  and  sunned.  Boil  syrup  down  until  it 
is  as  thick  as  honey.  Add  the  figs  and  boil  again  for  five  minutes.  Set  the 
preserves  aside  until  next  morning.  The  figs  will  absorb  the  syrup  over 
night  and  become  plump.  If  the  syrup  looks  thin  at  this  time  the  figs  should 
be  taken  out  and  let  it  boil  down  more.  Pack  the  jars  and  process  them 
ten  minutes  in  order  to  prevent  mold  and  also  to  seal  the  jar  air-tight.  Figs 
should  be  cooked  thoroughly.  The  little  seeds  cause  the  preserves  to  ferment 
and  if  not  cooked  enough,  the  syrup  gets  thin  and  watery,  and  when  jar  is 
openeql  it  spoils  often  before  all  is  used. — Mrs.  Redfearn. 

CITRON 

Rind  of  1  watermelon 

Peel,  cut  into  2  in.  squares.  Make  salt  brine  and  soak  3  days.  Make 
medium  strong  alum  water,  soak  3  days.  Soak  in  clear  water  3  days.  Make 
strong  ginger  tea  and  boil  until  tender.  Two  lbs.  sugar  to  1  lb.  fruit.  Use 
little  water  to  start  syrup.    Cook  until  transparent. — Mrs.  Frank  Bennett. 


127 


ASK  FOR  AND  USE  MELROSE  FLOUR 


MINT  CUP  (VERY  REFRESHING) 

1  bunch  fresh  mint  1  cup  sugar  5  lemons 

Let  all  steep  in  cup  of  cold  water  30  minutes.  Add  four  bottles  ginger 
ale,  and  lastly  ice. — Mrs.  Walter  T.  Rose. 

FRUIT  PUNCH. 

1  dozen  oranges  2  bottles  apollinaris  water 

1  dozen  lemons  6  bottles  ginger  ale 

2  small  cans  grated  pineapple  2V2  cups  sugar       IV2  cups  water 
Cook  sugar  and  plain  water  to  make  syrup.    Add  pineapple.  Squeeze 

oranges  and  lemons  and  add  juice.  Lastly,  ginger  ale  and  apollinaris  water. 
Put  in  large  piece  of  ice,  and  serve  with  cherries.  This  serves  thirty 
people. — Mrs.  J.  D.  Home. 

PUNCH. 

Juice  of  5  lemons  V2  cup  cold  water 

V2  bunch  mint  leaves,  chopped  2  pints  ginger  ale 

\XA  cups  sugar  1  pint  grape  juice. 

Mix  lemon  juice,  sugar,  mint  and  water  together,  cover  and  let  stand  30 
minutes.  Strain  and  pour  into  punch  bowl  over  lump  of  ice.  Garnish  with 
thin  slices  of  lemon  and  sprigs  of  mint. — Mrs.  B.  F.  Bray. 

RUSSIAN  TEA. 

5  teaspoons  of  tea,  steeped  in  8  cups  boiling  water. 

To  this  add  the  mixture  composed  of  the  following  ingredients: 

8  cups  of  water  Peel  of  3  oranges  and  1  lemon 

2  cups  sugar  5  whole  cloves. 

Boil  20  minutes,  Cool  and  add  juice  of  8  oranges  and  2  lemons.  Serve 
ice-cold. — Mrs.  C.  N.  Ingram,  Darlington. 

GINGER  CUP. 

Four  oranges,  three  lemons,  twenty-four  lumps  sugar,  one  cup  shredder! 
pineapple,  one  quart  ginger  ale,  one  dozen  cloves,  one-half  teaspoon  cinnamon, 
one-third  grated  nutmeg,  one  pint  water.  Push  the  cloves  into  the  oranges 
and  let  them  stand  an  hour  to  extract  flavor.  Rub  the  sugar  over  the  rind 
of  oranges  and  lemons,  then  add  juice  of  these  to  sugar;  add  the  spices  and 
pineapple  and  let  stand  two  hours.  At  the  time  of  serving,  put  in  the  water 
and  ginger  ale  and  pour  over  cracked  ice. 


128 


FOR  SHORTENING,  FRYING,  SALAD  DRESSING   USE  WESSON  OIL 


ICED  COFFEE  IN  PERFECTION. 

One  pint  cold  coffee,  one-fifth  teaspoon  ground  cinnamon,  one  pint  milk, 
whipped  cream,  cracked  ice.  Have  both  coffee  and  milk  thoroughly  chilled; 
mix  well,  add  cracked  ice  and  when  serving,  put  the  whipped  cream  on  top 
of  each  glass  and  dust  over  with  cinnamon. 

CHOCOLATE 

Two  ounces  chocolate,  two  tablespoons  sugar,  one  quart  milk,  one  cup 
water,  pinch  of  salt.  Dissolve  the  sugar,  chocolate  and  salt  in  a  little  water 
and  add  one  cup  boiling  water.  Boil.  In  the  meantime,  heat  milk  in  double 
boiler.  When  the  milk  is  hot,  pour  in  the  syrup  and  whip  with  an  egg  beater. 
Serve  with  or  without  whipped  cream.  A  marshmallow  served  on  each  cud 
of  chocolate  adds  a  pleasant  flavor. 

TEA. 

One  teaspoon  tea,  one  cup  boiling  water.  Scald  pot,  put  in  tea,  pour  boiling 
water  over  it  and  serve  at  once.  Tea  should  never  be  boiled.  The  water 
should  be  freshly  boiling. 

TEA  PUNCH 

One  cup  strong  tea,  one  sliced  lemon,  one  cup  stoned  cherries,  one  quart 
water,  one-half  cup  maraschino  cordial,  one  cup  sugar,  cracked  ice.  Pour 
the  tea  (hot)  over  the  sugar;  then  when  cold,  add  fruit,  water  and  cordial. 
Chill  thoroughly  before  serving. 

BLACKBERRY  ACID, 

3  gallons  of  berries  3  pints  cold  water  5  oz.  tartaric  acid 

Dissolve  tartaric  acid  in  water,  cover  berries  and  let  stand  for  48  hours. 
Do  not  squeeze  but  strain  carefully  through  a  bag.  For  each  pint  of  juice  use 
%  pound  of  sugar,  let  stand  for  two  weeks  not  air  tight.  Then  bottle,  put 
corks  in  tightly  and  let  stand  until  working  has  stopped  and  then  cork 
tightly.  When  serving  use  1  cup  juice  to  4  cups  water,  add  more  sugar  if 
needed.— Mrs.  T.  L.  Caudle. 

SCUPPERNONG  GRAPE  JUICE. 

Rinse  grapes,  pack  layer  of  grapes,  then  layer  of  sugar,  until  jar  is  filled. 
Seal  and  the  natural  juices  will  be  extracted,  resulting  in  delicious  grape 
juice.    Cherries  excellent  prepared  in  similar  way,  with  spices  added. 

— Mrs.  Geo.  Howard. 

COFFEE. 

One  tablespoon  coffee,  one  cup  boiling  water.  Scald  coffee  pot.  Have 
freshly  boiled  water  and  let  the  coffee  boil  just  a  moment.  Remove  from 
strong  heat.    Settle  with  a  little  cold  water. 


129 


 FOR  STYLE  AND  COMFORT  DRIVE  AN  ESSEX  OR  HUDSON 


ICED  CHOCOLATE 

Prepare  a  syrup  as  follows:  To  six  tablespoons  of  scraped  chocolate  add 
one  quart  boiling  water.  Boil  up  well,  then  add  one  quart  sugar  and  cook 
until  a  thin  syrup  is  formed.  When  cold,  flavor  to  taste  with  vanilla.  For 
serving,  use  two  or  three  tablespoons  of  syrup  for  each  glass.  Half  fill  with 
crushed  ice,  pour  in  syrup,  fill  up  with  rich  milk,  garnish  with  whipped  cream 
and  serve. — Mrs.  L.  J.  Huntley. 


130 


  FOR  STYLE  AND  COMFORT  DRIVE  AN  ESSEX  OR  HUDSON   


AMOUNT  REQUIRED  FOR  MULTIPLE  SERVINGS 

1  large  hen,  baked,  serves  8  persons. 

1  hen  made  into  salad  serves  15  persons. 

1  hen  made  into  pressed  chicken  serves  18  persons. 

1  gallon  of  punch  serves  30  persons. 

1  gallon  of  tea,  made  strong  enough  to  have  cracked  ice,  serves  30  persons. 

3  can  of  peas  serves  10  to  12  in  patty  cases. 

I  twelve-pound  ham,  baked,  serves  40  persons. 

1  loaf  of  bread  makes  10  sandwiches. 

i  quart  of  coffee  pours  6  cups. 

15  pounds  of  roast  beef  serves  50  persons. 


AMOUNTS  REQUIRED  FOR  SERVING  50  PLATES 


1 V2 .  gallons  brick  ice  cream 
2^  gallons  ice  cream  in  bulk 
3  cakes 

IV2  pounds  shelled  almonds,  salted 

3  pounds  mints 

3  pints  olives 

1  pound  good  coffee 


2V2    loaves   of   pullman   bread  for 


sandwiches 
5  chickens  for  salad 
7  bunches  celery  for  salad 
3  heads  of  lettuce  for  serving  salad 
2  pounds  of  crackers 
1  quart  of  cream  for  coffee 


WEIGHTS  AND  MEASURES 


1  cupful   

4  cupfuls  

o  teaspoonfuls  

2  cups  butter,  packed  solid  

4  cups  sifted  flour  

2  cups  granulated  sugar  

2  tablespoonfuls  butter  

60  drops   

4  tablespoons  flour  

8  large  eggs   

Two  and  two-thirds  cups  powdered  sugar  __ 

Two  and  two-thirds  cups  brown  sugar  

ZVz  cups  confectioners'  sugar  

1  square  confectioners'  sugar  

1  square  Baker's  chocolate  

5  tablespoonfuls  of  liquid  


 One-half  pint 

 One  quart 

One  tablespoonful 


One  teaspoonful 


One  wine-gla5jS 


One  pound 
One  pound 
One  pound 


One  pound 
One  pound 
One  pound 
One  pound 
One  pound 


One  ounce 


One  ounce 


One  ounce 


131 


COOK  WITH  COAL— COOL  WITH  ICE— WADESBORO  ICE  &  FUEL  CO. 


GENERAL  DIET  FOR  REDUCING  WEIGHT 

Avoid  overeating. 

Use  thin,  clear  soups  instead  of  thick  or  cream  soups. 

Eat  plenty  of  green  vegetables,  either  raw  or  plainly  cooked. 

Eat  cabbage,  lettuce,   spinach,   asparagus,   string  beans,  fifctery   and  any 
salad  green. 

Eat  small  portions  of  bread,  cereals  and  starchy  foods. 

Eat  fruit  sherbets,  water  ices,  fruit  whips  and  gelatine  desserts. 

Eat  lean  meats  in  moderation;  oysters,  clams  and  other  sea  food. 

Eat  salads  with  French  dressing,  made  of  lemon  juice  instead  of  vinegar. 

Eat  sparingly  of  butter,  confectio^j-y,  rich  sauces  and  ice  cream. 

GENERAL  DIET  FOR  INCREASING  WEIGHT 


Drink  at  least  a  quart  of  milk  a  day. 

Use  sweet  cream  as  frequently  as  possible. 

Use  plenty  of  butter. 

Eat  plenty  of  fruits,  especially  dates,  figs  and  bananas. 
Use  cereals  plentifully. 

Eat  vegetables,  especially  potatoes,  carrots,  beets,  corn,  sweet  potatoes  and 
greens. 

Eat  meats  daily. 

Eat  larger  amounts  of  food  than  you  are  accustomed  to.  If  this  seems 
difficult,  it  is  often  better  to  increase  the  number  of  meals  to  four  or  five 
instead  of  three.  Let  the  extra  meal  consist  of  crackers  and  milk,  chocolate 
egg  shake,  etc.,  and  fit  one  in  between  breakfast  and  lunch,  or  during 
the  afternoon,  or  before  retiring. 


132 


(ajjB  -kV^  t-1^  - 


I, 


<t  <  Lfl  (I) 


^  ^^^^ 


