THE  ASCORBIC  ACID  CONTENT 

OP  SELECTED  VEGETABLES  DURING  STAGES 

0?  PREPARATION  AM  SERVICE  AT  A  COLLEGE  CAFETERIA 


by 
SISTER  FRANCIS  HUGH  ffALEKB,  0.  S.  U. 
B.  S.f  Marymount  College,  1933 


A  THESIS 

submitted  In  partial  fulfillment  of  the 
requirements  for  the  degree  of 

MASTER  OF  SCIENCE 

Department  of  Food  Economics  and  Nutrition 

KANSAS  STATE  COLLEGE 
OF  AGRICULTURE  AND  APPLIED  SCIENCE 

1946 


11 


I   Alia03  674170 

TABLE  OP  CONTESTS 

INTRODUCTION 1 

REVIEW  OP  LITERATURE 3 

Tomatoes  4 

Cabbage 7 

Potatoes 12 

Spinach 21 

SAMPLING  PROCEDURE 26 

Tomatoes 27 

Cabbage 28 

Potatoes 30 

Spinach 32 

CHEMICAL  PROCEDURE 33 

DISCUSSION  OP  RESULTS  36 

Tomatoes 36 

Cabbage 38 

Potatoes 40 

Spinach 41 

SUMMARY 44 

ACKNOWLEDGMENT 46 

LITERATURE  CITED 47 

APPENDIX 52 


INTRODUCTION 

Within  recent  years  the  increase  in  mass  feeding  has  been 
phenomenal.   Institutional,  commercial,  and  industrial  con- 
cerns as  well  as  our  Army  and  Navy  have  been  the  users  of 
large  quantities  of  the  nation's  food  supply.  Numerous  inves- 
tigations are  being  made  to  ascertain  the  quality  of  food 
served  by  the  various  types  of  eating  establishments.   The  chal- 
lenge that  must  be  met  by  these  establishments  to  a  greater  or 
lesser  extent  is  that  of  offering  "short  orders,"  of  providing 
some  choice  of  selection,  and  of  giving  satisfactory  service 
involving  quantity  preparation. 

Some  of  the  culinary  practices  that  prevail  in  large 
quantity  cooking  undoubtedly  cause  much  destruction  of  certain 
nutritive  values  in  food.   Moreover,  there  Is  no  reason  to 
assume  that  the  price  the  consumer  pays  for  his  food  is  an 
index  of  the  nutritive  value  of  his  diet,  whether  he  chooses 
his  meals  from  expensive  hotel  dining  rooms,  coffee  shops, 
cafeterias,  or  from  the  lowest  class  restaurants. 

The  effect  of  preliminary  preparation  and  methods  of  cook- 
ing upon  the  nutritional  value  of  foods  has  long  been  recog- 
nized.  In  order  to  encourage  the  use  of  the  best  methods  in 
the  preparation  of  foods  for  institutional  service,  it  Is  nec- 
essary to  know  what  standards  should  be  set  up.   Since  there 
is  essentially  a  vast  difference  between  the  problems  found  in 
cooking  in  the  home  and  in  the  commercial  or  industrial  food 
unit,  many  Investigations  are  needed  on  the  nutritive  values 


of  food  as  they  are  prepared  for  large  quantity  serving. 
Recently  some  studies  on  Institutional  service  have  been  made. 
The  results  that  have  been  reported  have  Intensified  the  Inter- 
est of  those  who  are  responsible  for  large  group  feeding. 

The  purpose  of  this  thesis  was  to  moke  a  study  on  an 
Investigation  carried  out  on  selected  vegetables  In  the  cafe- 
teria at  Kansas  State  College  where  it  was  felt  that  In  most 
Instances  the  practices  commonly  used  In  Its  kitchen  prepara- 
tion and  counter  service  were  very  oomnendable.  For  example, 
the  use  of  a  staggered  time  schedule  would  be  expected  to  be 
effective  In  conserving  the  nutritional  values  of  foods.  Cook- 
ing vegetables  In  small  quantities  made  It  possible  to  hare 
freshly  cooked  ones  ready  for  serving  as  soon  as  the  limited 
supply  previously  taken  to  the  counter  had  been  depleted. 
Suoh  a  plan  eliminated  the  necessity  of  keeping  some  of  the 
cooked  foods  warm  for  an  extended  length  of  time  on  the  stove 
or  steam  table  or  In  a  bain  marie.  Also,  a  great  deal  of  the 
cooking  was  done  In  a  pressure  steamer,  and  the  cooking  peri- 
ods of  vegetables  were  not  prolonged.  Moreover,  this  cafete- 
ria featured  dishes  using  uncooked  vegetables  on  the  steam 
table.  There  were  other  details  of  procedure  that  appeared  to 
contribute  to  the  conservation  of  food  values. 

These  were  some  of  the  reasons  for  choosing  to  ::take  an 
Investigation  of  the  effects  of  certain  preparations  and 
serving  techniques  on  the  ascorbic  acid  content  of  selected 
vegetables  at  the  college  cafeteria. 

That  difficulties  would  be  encountered  In  carrying  out 


this  study  ware  recognized  from  the  beginning.  A  cafeteria 
kitchen  does  not  readily  lend  Itself  to  scientific  laboratory 
experiments.  Many  variable  factors  have  to  be  brought  under 
control  In  order  to  draw  conclusions  from  data  collected. 
This  Is  especially  true  In  the  case  of  ascorbic  acid  studies. 
However,  In  this  work  the  student  was  so  directed  that  she 
could  discover  for  herself  the  numerous  problems  Involved. 

It  Is  hoped  that  further  value  con  be  derived  from  this 
Investigation  by  maklne  many  applications  of  the  Information 
gained  to  the  problems  of  the  food  service  In  her  own  Insti- 
tution. 

REVIEW  OP  LITERATURE 

Determinations  of  the  ascorbic  acid  content  of  the  vari- 
ous foods  known  to  be  the  best  and  most  common  sources  of  this 
vitamin  have  resulted  in  the  accumulation  of  data  that  vary  to 
a  remarkable  extent.  Sherman  (194G)  stated  that  a  table  of 
single  average  figures  would  be  unduly  tentative  and  that  in 
most  oases  a  rtnge  of  the  values  "within  which  it  is  reason- 
able to  expect  that  the  mean  values  when  settled  will  be 
found"  should  have  muoh  more  meaning. 

There  are  many  reasons  to  which  the  differences  of  the 
original  ascorbic  acid  content  of  fresh  raw  foods  have  been 
attributed.  Some  of  these  are  the  horticultural  selection 
of  seed,  variety,  locality,  climate,  soil,  fertilizer,  sea- 
son, exposure  to  rainfall  and  sunshine,  stage  of  maturity, 
parts  of  the  plant  tested,  conditions  of  harvest,  handling, 


storage,  and  methods  of  transportation.  Many  studies  have 
increased  our  knowledge  of  the  importance  of  these  factors 
but  further  investigation  is  needed. 

Tomatoes 

Somers,  Hamner,  and  Nelson  (1945)  in  order  to  determine 
some  of  the  factors  that  might  affect  the  ascorbic  acid  con- 
tent of  tomatoes  received  at  a  cannery  made  a  correlated 
study  of  the  several  factors  operating  in  a  specific  location. 
They  found  that  a  certain  uniform  manner  of  processing  toma- 
toes did  not  result  in  marked  changes  of  ascorbic  acid  values. 
Therefore,  the  variation  of  the  ascorbic  acid  content  of  can- 
ned tomatoes  must  have  been  due  to  two  sources:   differences 
in  the  ascorbic  acid  content  of  tomatoes  in  the  field  and 
losses  subsequent  to  picking  and  processing.   These  investi- 
gators verified  the  findings  of  Hamner,  Bernstein,  and  Maynard 
(1945)  who  reported  that  the  greatest  influence  of  environ- 
mental variables  on  the  ascorbic  acid  content  of  tomatoes  was 
that  due  to  variations  in  light  Intensity  two  weeks  previous 
to  harvest.   Probably  fluctuations  hitherto  attributed  to 
location  or  season  at  which  tomatoes  were  produced  were  due 
to  the  differences  in  amount  of  sunshine. 

Wide  differences  in  ascorbic  acid  content  of  tomatoes 
have  been  found  to  occur  within  single  varieties.   Hallswork 
and  Lewis  (1944)  found  a  range  of  24  to  51  mg.  per  100  grams 
in  the  same  variety  grown  in  the  same  plot. 

Intervarietal  differences  would  be  expected  to  cause  even 


greater  fluctuations.  Currenoe  (1940)  showed  that  varietal 
differences  In  the  ascorbic  add  content  of  tomatoes  were 
difficult  to  demonstrate  statistically.  Reynard  and  Kanapaux 
(1942)  concluded  from  several  reviews  of  literature  that  most 
commercial  varieties  of  tomatoes  ranged  from  about  15  to  40  ng, 
of  ascorbic  acid  per  100  grams  of  fresh  weight.  However, 
caution  should  be  used  in  reoommending  any  one  variety  because 
of  variations  to  be  expected  under  the  wide  range  of  condi- 
tions where  it  might  be  grown.   Of  edible  varieties  tosted  by 
Reynard  and  Kanapaux,  a  small-fruited  species  gave  an  ascorblo 
acid  range  of  35.3  to  72.6  mg.  per  100  grams.  Thirty  commer- 
cial varieties  ranged  from  11.2  to  21. C  mg.  per  100  grams. 
Currence  (1940)  stated  that  emphasizing  varietal  differences 
to  the  grower  might  be  misleading  since  the  variety  recom- 
mended as  being  of  high  vitamin  C  content  might  prove  to  be 
low  under  some  conditions.  Murphy  (1942)  pointed  out  that 
although  variations  within  variety  caused  by  geographical  situ- 
ation were  comparatively  large,  this  should  not  lessen  the 
importance  of  varietal  values.  She  stated  that  tomatoes  may 
be  rendered  useless  as  a  source  of   vitamin  C  if  a  variety  of 
low  ascorbic  acid  content  Is  subjected  to  adverse  environ- 
mental Influences.  Contrariwise,  a  high  vitamin  variety  sub- 
jected to  the  same  unfavorable  conditions  could  still  contri- 
bute materially  to  vitamin  C  requirements. 

Brown  and  Mosor  (1941)  found  that  an  18-day  storage  per- 
iod of  tomatoes  either  at  laboratory  temperature  or  In  the 
refrigerator  at  6.6°  C.  resulted  in  complete  retention  of 
their  asoorblo  acid.  However,  Somers  et  al.  (1945)  suggested 


that  holding  tomatoes  more  than  a  day,  if  they  were  Injured 
and  In  a  poor  condition,  might  affect  their  ascorbic  acid 
retention  considerably. 

The  rate  of  destruction  of  ascorbic  acid  during  cooking 
varies  greatly  with  different  foods.  Since  this  vitamin  is 
not  autoxidlzable  in  an  acid  solution,  and  since  tomatoes  are 
not  ordinarily  subjected  to  much  manipulation  a  great  loss  of 
ascorbic  acid  during  cooking  would  not  be  expected.  Much  work 
has  been  done  to  determine  the  effect  of  cooking  upon  the  as- 
corbic acid  retention  in  some  vegetables.   Apparently  few,  if 
any  studies,  have  been  made  on  the  effect  of  cooking  raw  toma- 
toes. This  may  be  due  to  the  fact  that  fresh  tomatoes  are 
usually  served  raw  and  that  when  cooked  tomatoes  are  wanted, 
the  canned  ones  are  used.  Such  seems  to  be  the  case  especially 
in  institutions. 

Daum,  Aimone,  and  Holllster  (1943)  reported  the  results 
of  a  study  on  the  ascorbic  acid  retentions  in  institutional 
food  service  at  University  Hospital,  Iowa  City.  Approximately 
1400  persons  were  served  in  three  groups ;  therefore  the  vege- 
tables were  necessarily  prepared  in  large  quantities.   The  as- 
corbic acid  retention  in  canned  tomatoes  cooked  for  a  period 
of  thirty  minutes  was  94.5  per  cent.  Holding  the  cooked,  can- 
ned tomatoes  fifteen  minutes  on  the  steam  table  did  not  lessen 
their  ascorbic  acid  value.   Cooking  for  thirty  minutes  and 
holding  for  one  hour  on  the  steam  table  gave  an  83.4  per  cent 
retention  of  the  original  ascorbic  acid  content  of  the  canned 
tomatoes. 

Somewhat  different  results  were  found  by  Hinman,  Brush, 


and  Halliday  (1944)  who  reported  no  effect  on  the  retention  of 
the  original  ascorbic  acid  value  of  canned  tomatoes  durin  a 
boiling  period  of  thirty  minutes  and  subsequent  holding  period 
of  one  and  one-half  hours  on  a  steam  table. 

Gleim  et  al.  (1946)  reported  that  heating  canned  tomatoes 
by  various  methods  required  for  quantity  preparation  caused  no 
change  in  the  retention  of  ascorbic  acid  when  tomatoes  were 
heated  to  serving  temperature.  Simmering  for  thirty  minutes 
affected  the  retention  slightly,  and  simmering  for  three  hours 
decreased  the  retention  to  75  per  cent. 

Cabbage 

Numerous  investigations  have  been  made  on  the  ascorbic 
acid  value  of  cabbage.  Murphy  (1942)  found  that  environmental 
agencies,  e.g.,  sunlight  and  rainfall  and  perhaps  temperature, 
had  a  marked  influence  on  the  ascorbic  acid  content  of  cabbage. 
Evidence  also  indicated  that  the  ascorbic  acid  tended  to  de- 
crease as  the  tissues  became  more  fully  matured. 

Others  have  reported  wide  ranges  of  ascorbic  acid  content 
of  cabbage  due  to  varietal  differences.  Gould,  Tressler,  and 
King  (1936)  found  a  range  of  26  to  56  mg.  per  100  grams  in  six 
varieties  and  strains.  They  found  that  the  same  variety  did 
not  have  the  same  ascorbic  acid  content  at  different  seasons 
or  in  different  years  but  that  varieties  high  in  ascorbic  acid 
yield  as  compared  with  other  varieties  tended  to  remain  so  from 
year  to  year. 

Van  Duyne,  Chase,  and  Simpson  (1943)  reported  that  the 


storage  of  cabbage  In  tightly  closed  containers  for  two  months 
at  a  temperature  of  -0.5°  to  4.0°  C.  gave  good  ascorbic  acid 
retentions.  Losses  did  occur  during  the  third  month  of  stor- 
age and  when  the  stored  cabbage  was  held  subsequently  at  room 
temperature,  19.4°  C.  for  three  days.  Holding  the  cabbage  for 
a  week  in  the  refrigerator  at  a  temperature  of  2.0°  to  2.5°  C. 
did  not  affect  the  retention.  These  findings  seemed  to  corre- 
late with  the  report  of  Mayfield  and  Richardson  (1940)  who 
observed  that  a  six-months'  storage  at  7.2°  C.  and  a  relative 
humidity  of  about  55  per  cent  resulted  in  approximately  75  per 
cent  retention  of  the  ascorbic  acid  value  of  cabbage. 

Pyke  (1942)  performed  an  experiment  to  show  the  compara- 
tive effects  of  various  methods  of  shredding  or  mincing  cab- 
bage. He  demonstrated  that  the  less  the  injury  to  the  tissue 
oells,  the  greater  the  ascorbic  acid  retention.  The  use  of 
(1)  a  sharp  knife  which  caused  no  noticeable  bruising  or  dis- 
coloration in  shredding,  (2)  a  household  shredder  which  caused 
more  bruising  than  the  above,  and  (3)  a  household  grater  which 
caused  considerable  bruising  and  even  discoloration  of  the  cab- 
bage gave  results  in  harmony  with  theoretical  considerations. 
In  (1)  the  asoorbic  acid  content  was  not  lessened.  A  ninety 
per  cent  retention  was  found  in  (2)  and  (3)  showed  a  66  per 
cent  retention.  The  greatest  decrease  in  the  ascorbic  aoid 
content  in  (2)  and  (3)  occurred  during  the  first  five  minutes 
after  the  cabbage  was  shredded.  After  the  initial  changes,  the 
retentions  did  not  vary  significantly  within  a  three-hour  hold- 
ing period. 

Lampltt  et  al.  (1942)  being  interested  also  in  finding  a 


correlation  between  mechanical  breakage  of  cells  and  the  reten- 
tion of  ascorbic  acid,  resorted  to  the  expedient  of  testing  the 
liquid  pressed  out  of  shredded  cabbage.  They  confirmed  the 
results  of  Pyke  that  the  retention  varied  with  the  extent  of 
rupture  of  the  cells  and  that  the  concentration  of  ascorbic 
acid  fell  rapidly  during  the  first  ten  to  15  minutes.  The  as- 
corbic acid  value  remained  oonstant  for  three-hour  periods 
when  cabbage  was  held  at  15°  C. 

Van  Duyno,  Chase,  and  Simpson  (1943)  reported  that  the 
advance  preparation  of  shredding  cabbago  and  allowing  it  to 
stand  for  one  hour  in  air  gave  an  ascorbic  acid  retention  of 
07  t  2  per  cent.  Allowing  the  shredded  cabbage  to  stand  In 
water  for  one  hour  resulted  in  the  retention  of  94  ±  1  per  cent, 
and  that  held  in  water  for  three  hours  retained  96  ±  2  per  cent. 

MoCay,  Pijoan,  and  Taubken  (1944)  reported  that  the  use 
of  a  plastic  knife  for  cutting  cabbage  caused  greater  retention 
of  ascorbic  acid  during  holding  periods  of  the  cabbage  than 
did  the  use  of  a  steel  knife  or  food  chopper. 

Qulnn  et  al.  (1946)  reported  that  cabbage  that  had  stood 
at  room  temperature  for  20  minutes  did  not  show  a  marked  dif- 
ference in  ascorbic  acid  oontent  whether  the  cabbage  had  been 
prepared  by  shredding  or  by  cutting  with  a  knife. 

Wellington  and  Tressler  (1938)  having  reviewed  various 
reports  concerning  the  ascorbic  acid  content  of  oooked  cab- 
bage found  that  great  differences  had  been  observed.  They 
made  a  comparison  of  three  methods  of  cooking— boiling,  steam- 
ing, and  panning.   They  concluded  that  the  amount  of  aaoorblo 


10 


acid  extraoted  by  the  cooking  water  in  boillne  and  in  steaming 
varied  somewhat  according  to  the  more  or  less  finely  divided 
oondltlon  of  the  cabbage.   About  two-thirds  of  the  original 
ascorbic  acid  was  retained  in  panning,  and  since  there  was  no 
excess  liquid  the  oabbage  itself  retained  the  greatest  amount 
of  vitamin  C  when  cooked  by  this  method. 

Having  made  an  investigation  on  the  cooking  of  oabbage 
by  boiling,  Gould,  Tressler,  and  King  (1036)  pointed  out  that 
the  length  of  time  required  to  bring  the  water  to  a  boll  after 
the  cabbage  whs  added  seemed  to  be  of  significance.  They  found 
that  about  25  per  cent  of  the  ascorbic  acid  was  destroyed  be- 
fore the  cooking  water  began  to  boll  and  that  very  little  was 
lost  thereafter,  although  a  considerable  amount  was  dissolved 
In  the  cooking  water. 

Van  Duyne,  Chase,  and  Simpson  (1943)  reporting  on  the 
effect  of  various  home  practloes  on  the  ascorbic  acid  content 
of  oabbage,  stated  that  when  cabbage  was  boiled  for  seven  min- 
utes in  the  proportions  of  one  part  by  weight  of  cabbage  to 
one-half,  two,  and  four  parts  of  water  the  percentage  reten- 
tions were,  respectively,  70  ±2,  SO  $  3,  and  51  ±  1.  They 
made  a  study  on  the  effect  of  boiling  cabbage  in  twice  its 
weight  of  water  for  different  lengths  of  time.  The  results 
showed  percentage  retentions  of  ascorbic  acid  as  follows: 
after  seven  minutes,  55  x  2;  after  15  minutes,  52  ±  1;  after 
25  minutes,  52  t  2.   Having  compared  the  effects  of  cooking 
oabbage  to  the  same  degree  of  "doneness"  by  boiling  (1)  oov- 
ered  in  twice  its  weight  of  water  for  seven  minutes,  (2)  un- 
covered in  twice  its  weight  of  water  for  eight  and  one-half 


11 


minutes,  and  (3)  uncovered  In  four  times  Its  weight  of  water 
for  five  and  one-half  minutes,  they  found  these  percentage 
retentions  of  ascorbic  acid:   in  (1),  56  ±  2;  in  (2),  50  ±  2; 
and  (3),  49  1  1. 

Ireson  and  Eheart  (1944)  reported  that  using  a  large 
amount  of  water,  1200  cc.  to  240  grams  of  cabbage,  resulted  in 
a  54  per  cent  retention  of  ascorbic  acid.  About  37  per  cent 
of  the  vitamin  was  extracted  in  the  water  and  nearly  nine  per 
cent  was  oxidized.  When  a  smaller  amount  of  water  was  used, 
40  cc.  to  193.7  grams  of  cabbage,  the  16  per  cent  loss  of  as- 
corbic acid  was  due  to  oxidation. 

Noble  and  Waddell  (1945)  showed  that  cooking  cabbage  in 
a  tightly  covered  pan  with  just  enough  water  to  cover,  or  in  a 
steamer,  or  in  a  pressure  saucepan,  retained  approximately  the 
same  proportion  of  its  original  ascorbic  acid.   Cabbage  coolced 
in  an  open  kettle  with  enough  water  to  cover  during  all  of 
the  cooking  period  retained  much  less  than  that  cooked  in  the 
steamer  or  pressure  saucepan.   In  another  study  reported  In 
1946,  these  same  workers  found  results  comparable  to  those 
Just  mentioned.  The  retention  of  ascorbic  acid  in  cabbage 
cooked  in  a  steamer  and  in  a  pressure  saucepan  averaged  slightly 
less  than  70  per  cent,  whereas  that  of  cabbage  cooked  by  the 
tightly  covered  pan  method  retained  about  60  per  cent  and  that 
by  the  open  kettle  method  retained  about  35  per  cent. 

Higgins  (1942)  in  a  comparative  study  of  institution  and 
home-cooked  vegetables  found  that  cabbage  cooked  in  large 
quantity  was  comparable  in  quality  and  ascorbic  acid  reten- 
tion to  that  cooked  according  to  ordinary  home  procedures. 


12 


Holding  over  steam  for  one  hour  affected  the  retention  of  as- 
corbic acid. 

Daura,  Almone,  and  Holllster  (1943)  reported  a  study  on 
large  quantity  cookery  of  cabbage.   About  300  pounds  of  cab- 
bage were  usually  cooked  at  one  time,  but  excellent  flavor 
and  color  were  retained.   The  range  of  ascorbic  acid  in  the 
raw  cabbage  in  12  determinations  was  found  to  be  21.0  to  26.0  .ug. 
per  100  grams.   After  the  cabbage  was  oooked  the  range  was  12.0 
to  19.0  nig.   The  percentage  retentions  of  ascorbic  acid  in 
cabbage  in  cooking,  in  holding  15  minutes  on  the  steam  table, 
and  one  hour  on  the  steam  table  were:   59.1,  54.6,  and  45.5 
per  cent  respectively. 

Potatoes 

Although  extensive  research  has  been  carried  out  on  pota- 
toes, it  is  difficult  to  conclude  to  what  extent  they  enrioh 
the  vitamin  C  content  of  our  diet.   The  various  factors  which 
influence  the  ascorbic  acid  value  of  potatoes  have  been  inves- 
tigated by  many  scientists.   In  some  cases  the  work  is  being 
continued. 

Leichsenring  (1944)  made  a  compilation  of  data  from  the 
agricultural  experiment  stations  of  Illinois,  Nebraska,  North 
Dakota,  and  Minnesota.   In  reporting  the  studies  made  on 
variety,  she  stated  that  marked  varietal  differences  in  the 
ascorbic  acid  content  of  potatoes  were  found.   The  highest 
and  lowest  values  attributed  to  variety  showed  a  difference 
of  113  per  cent.   It  was  indicated  thtt  some  varieties  having 


13 


comparatively  higher  ascorbic  acid  values  tended  to  have 
approximately  the  sumo  values  from  year  to  year. 

Dove,  Kurphy,  and  Akeloy  (1943)  also  reported  evidenoe 
showing  that  potatoes  of  higher  ascorbic  acid  value  could  prob- 
ably be  counted  on  to  yield  similar  values  from  year  to  year. 

IJdo  (1937)  found  varietal  dlfferancea  up  to  60  per  cent 
In  the  ascorbic  acid  content  of  potatoes  and  not  more  than  a 
ten  per  cent  difference  in  tubers  of  the  same  variety. 

Esselen  et  al.  (1942)  in  a  study  on  the  effect  of  variety 
found  that  in  many  cases  differences  between  varieties  were 
less  than  differences  within  a  singlo  variety.  They  cave 
13.1  nig.  per  100  grans  as  an  average  yield  of  Irish  Cobblor 
and  9.7  mg.  per  100  grams  as  an  average  of  Chippewa  potatoes. 
These  figures  were  based  on  the  results  of  tests  niado  on  pota- 
toes from  several  statou. 

Leichsanring  (1944)  said  that  although  locality  appeared 
to  be  a  factor  of  sorao  importance  In  the  ascorbic  acid  content 
of  potatoes,  maturity  and  season  seemed  to  be  cor.conitant  fac- 
tors .  Her  data  showed  that  the  same  varieties  of  potatoes 
harvested  during  October,  1943,  In  Nebraska  and  North  Dakota 
had  higher  ascorbic  acid  values  than  those  harvested  in  Minne- 
sota during  October,  1942.  In  these  reports  the  Irish  Cob- 
bler variety  was  consistently  the  highest.  Its  ascorbic  acid 
values  were  these:   In  North  Dakota,  27.1  mg.  per  100  grams; 
in  two  different  places  in  Nebraska,  23. S  mg.  and  33.2  mg.; 
and  at  three  plaoes  in  Minnesota,  12.6,  16.4,  and  19.0  mg. 

Esselen  et  al.  (1942),  having  made  a  study  on  potatoes 


14 


Immediately  after  they  were  dug  at  their  own  station  in  Massa- 
chusetts and  on  those  shipped  "soon  after  harvest"  from  Cali- 
fornia, Kentucky*  Maine,  and  Hew  York,  did  not  attribute  very 
great  importance  to  the  effect  of  different  geographical  areas* 

According  to  Leichsenrlng  (1044)  the  investigations  car- 
ried out  by  the  Nebraska  station  on  five  varieties  of  potatoes 
showed  marked  and  continuous  decrease  during  the  growing  per- 
iod as  well  as  after  harvesting  and  during  storage.  An  ascor- 
bic aoid  content  of  36,8  mg,  per  100  grama  of  immature  Irish 
Cobbler  potatoes  was  found  on  June  30,  1043.  Weekly  analyses 
thereafter  shov  ed  continuous  decreases  in  ascorbic  aoid  con- 
tent. At  the  time  of  harvest  on  August  10,  1943,  a  value  of 
23.8  ng.  per  100  grems  was  found. 

Reports  concerning  the  distribution  of  ascorbic  acid  in 
the  potato  tuber  vary  somewhat.  Rolf  (1940)  found  that  the 
concentration  of  ascorbic  aoid  was  higher  In  the  bud  end  than 
in  the  stem  end.  Immature  potatoes  of  the  Chippewa  variety 
showed  practically  no  difference  in  the  distribution  of  ascor- 
bic acid  in  the  various  sections  of  the  tubers,  although  there 
was.  a  slight  tendency  toward  higher  concentration  In  the  bud 
end  as  they  reaohed  maturity.  New  Green  Mountain  potatoes 
bought  on  the  market  showed  only  a  slight  tendency  to  have  a 
higher  aaoorbic  acid  content  in  the  bud  end  than  in  tho  stem 
end  when  purchased.  This  difference  became  very  apparent  by 
the  end  of  a  week  and  increasingly  more  pronounood  thereafter. 
The  Leiohsenring  data  (1944)  seemod  to  indicate  that  the  as- 
corbic aoid  content  of  potatoes  was  greater  at  the  apioal  end 


15 


then  at  the  stem  end  of  the  tuber* 

IJdo  (1938)  reported  that  there  was  a  uniform  distribu- 
tion of  ascorbic  acid  throughout  the  potato,  but  Julen  (1944) 
found  that  the  concentration  of  vitamin  C  was  greater  in  the 
layer  nearest  the  peel  than  in  the  oore. 

Esselen  et  al.  (1942)  found  that  in  raw  potatoes  there 
was  an  even  distribution  of  ascorbic  acid  in  the  tuber  itself 
with  a  lesser  amount  in  the  skin.  However,  in  boiled  potatoes 
there  was  a  greater  amount  of  aacorbio  acid  in  the  area  be- 
tween the  central  and  epidermal  portions.  The  skin  and  part 
just  beneath  it  were  about  equal  in  ascorbic  acid  content. 
In  baked  potatoes  the  greatest  concentration  of  ascorbic  acid 
was  in  the  central  portion  with  the  amount  decreasing  pro- 
gressively toward  the  skin.  These  workers  concluded  that  some- 
thing happened  during  cooking  to  change  the  distribution  of 
ascorbic  acid  in  potatoes.  They  suggested  that  this  effect 
might  be  due  to  the  higher  temperature  maintained  in  the 
outer  portions  because  of  direct  contact  with  the  heating 
medium.  In  the  case  of  boiling  some  of  the  vitamin  was  leached 
into  the  water.  Rolf  (1940)  reported  that  she  found  a  similar 
distribution  in  cooked  and  uncooked  potatoes;  therefore  there 
was  but  little  diffusion  of  the  vitamin  during  cooking. 

According  to  Leiohsenring  (1944)  the  Minnesota  station 
found  that  the  size  of  the  tuber  was  not  a  significant  factor 
in  the  ascorbic  acid  content  of  potatoes.  Esselen  et  al.  (1942) 
also  reported  that  there  was  no  correlation  between  the  size 
of  tubers  and  their  asoorbio  acid  content.  They  found  marked 


16 


variations  In  both  small  and  large  nature  ran  potatoes. 

Rolf  (1040)  pointed  out  that  although  a  range  of  1.5  mg, 
to  53.0  mg.  of  ascorbic  acid  per  100  grams  of  potatoes  had  boon 
reported  by  various  workers,  their  investigations  showed  that 
newly  harvested  potatoos  were  highest  in  ascorbic  acid  and  that 
this  quantity  diminished  very  rapidly  during  the  first  part  of 
storago  and  more  gradually  later.  She  stated  that  storage  at 
25.5°  C.  of  immature  Chippewa  potatoes  resulted  in  an  80  per 
cent  retention  of  ascorbic  acid  after  one  week  and  C4  per  cent 
after  three  weeks.  Hew  Green  Mountain  potatoes  bought  on  the 
market  showed  a  retention  of  86  per  cent  in  about  ten  days  at 
25.5°  C.  She  found  that  the  ascorbic  aoid  value  of  three  vari- 
eties of  potatoes  stored  at  15.5°  C.  decreased  rapidly  during 
the  first  few  weeks  and  then  more  gradually  until  at  the  end 
of  26  weeks,  the  ascorbic  aoid  had  nearly  reached  a  plateau 
value.  A  storage  temperature  of  4.5°  C.  caused  a  greater  de- 
crease. The  Oreen  Mountain  variety  stored  at  15,5°  C.  lost 
50  per  cent  in  five  months.  This  worker  stated,  hovvever,  that 
evidence  seemed  to  lndioate  that  the  detrimental  effects  of 
storage  at  low  temperature  upon  the  asoorbic  aoid  content  of 
potatoes  might  be  offset  to  some  extent  by  later  storage  at  a 
higher  temperature. 

All  the  station  reports  summarized  by  Leichsenring  (1044) 
indicated  that  during  the  storage  of  potatoes  their  asoorbic 
aoid  retentions  were  gradually  and  significantly  decreased. 
A  storage  temperature  of  10,0°  C.  seemed  to  be  more  favorable 
for  ascorbio  acid  retention  than  4.4°  C.  In  Nebraska  Triumph 


17 


potatoes  harvested  in  August  and  stored  at  10,0°  0.  shoved 
ascorbic  acid  values  of  16.5  mg.  per  100  grass  in  Deoember  and 
7.9  mg.  in  April.  Those  stored  at  4.4°  C.  had  an  ascorbic 
add  value  of  5.3  qg«  in  Deoember  and  5.2  rag.  in  April. 

Other  studies  on  the  effeot  of  temperature  and  length  of 
storage  correlate  rather  closely  with  the  data  given  above. 
Esselen  et  al.  (1042)  observing  the  effect  of  storage  repor- 
ted that  two  varieties  held  five  months  at  2.2°  C,  approxi- 
mately the  temperature  of  oold  storage,  had  a  higher  asoorbic 
acid  value  than  the  same  varieties  held  at  4.4°  to  10.0°  C, 
similar  to  the  temperature  of  dry  'underground  storage?  but 
four  varieties  hud  greater  ascorbic  acid  value  after  being 
stored  for  five  months  at  the  higher  temperature.  Storage 
seemed  to  level  off  the  differences  between  varieties  in  ascor- 
bic acid  content. 

At  the  University  of  Wyoming  Agrioulturo  Experiment  Sta- 
tion (1040-1941)  it  was  found  that  the  ascorbic  acid  retention 
in  potatoes  ranged  from  43  to  60  per  cent  during  the  four- 
month  storage  period  between  Deoember  and  May.  The  temperature 
of  the  storage  was  not  given. 

Julen  (1944)  of  Sweden  reported  that  potatoes  stored 
Indoors  at  18,0°  to  20,0°  C.  retained  more  vitamin  C  than 
those  stored  at  2,0°  to  3.0°  C. 

Lelohsenring  (1944)  noted  that  the  differences  in  the 
asoorbic  add  retentions  of  potatoes  during  cooking  were  attri- 
butable to  suoh  factors  as  amount  of  water  used,  sire  of  potato 
pieces,  length  of  cooking  time,  method  of  cooking,  and  manner 


18 


of  sampling.   The  Illinois  station  reported  the  following  per- 
centage retentions  of  ascorbic  acid  in  potatoes  during  cooking: 
after  baking,  87;  boiling  in  skins,  103;  peeling  and  steaming, 
86;  peeling  and  boiling,  85;  peeling,  halving,  and  cooking  in 
the  pressure  cooker,  85.  Work  at  the  Nebraska  station  showed 
that  allowing  cooked  potatoes  to  stand  for  15  minutes  before 
analysis  decreased  the  retention  of  ascorbic  acid. 

Rolf  (1940)  found  that  the  boiling  and  steaming  of  unpared 
potatoes  were  the  cooking  methods  least  destructive  of  vitamin  C. 
Baking  and  pressure  cooking  caused  slightly  decreased  retentions 
while  boiling  pared  potatoes  affected  the  retention  to  a  greater 
extent.   The  ascorbic  acid  retention  In  any  of  these  methods 
was  not  less  than  75  per  cent. 

Esselen  et  al.  (1942)  found  that  in  eight  varieties  of 
potatoes  there  was  a  smaller  average  retention  of  ascorbic 
acid  in  baking  than  in  boiling  the  whole  potatoes  in  the  skin. 
These  workers  made  the  observation  that  the  addition  of  one 
per  cent  UaCl  to  the  cooking  water  of  potatoes  seemed  to  aid 
in  the  retention  of  ascorbic  acid.   They  reported  that  boiling 
In  the  skin,  baking  and  French  frying  appeared  to  be  the  beat 
methods  of  cooking  potatoes  from  the  standpoint  of  ascorbic 
acid  retention.   The  percentage  retentions  after  cooking  by 
various  methods  ranged  from  20  to  67.   The  procedures  of  peel- 
ing, cutting  in  half,  and  slicing  of  raw  potatoes,  and  the 
mashing  of  potatoes,  in  the  order  named,  caused  increasing 
losses  of  ascorbic  acid.   Potatoes  boiled  and  then  fried  re- 
tained 21  per  cent  of  their  original  ascorbic  acid  value. 

At  the  University  of  Wyoming  Agricultural  Experiment 


19 


Station  it  was  reported  that  one-third  of  the  ascorbic  acid 
of  potatoes  wus  extracted  by  the  water  in  which  they  were 
boiled. 

Richardson  and  Mayfield  (1943)  found  that  boilinc  unpared 
potatoes  caused  no  significant  effect  on  their  ascorbic  acid 
retention.  Cut,  pared  potatoes  retained  approximately  01  per 
oent  after  boiling.  They  reported  that  cooking  pared  potatoes 
in  a  pressure  saucepan  under  steam  pressure  of  15  pounds  gave 
better  retention  of  ascorbic  add  than  did  boiling  in  an  ordi- 
nary kettle. 

Recently  there  have  been  studies  on  the  ascorblo  acid 
content  of  potatoes  as  affected  by  Institutional  methods  of 
preparation  and  service. 

Higgins  (1942)  found  that  the  retention  of  ascorbic  acid 
of  potatoes  cooked  by  Institutional  methods  was  slgnifioantly 
less  than  of  those  cooked  by  home  methods. 

Kahn  and  Halliday  (1944)  reported  a  study  on  the  vitamin 
values  in  foods  prepared  in  institutional  quantities.  Steam- 
ing in  tho  skin  was  the  only  method  of  preparation  which  did 
not  affect  the  retention  of  aBOorblc  acid  in  potatoes.  Hew 
potatoes,  steamed  in  the  skin,  oan  take  the  place  of  a  citrus 
fruit  as  a  source  of  ascorbic  acid.  French-frlod  potatoes 
showed  good  retentions  of  asoorblo  acid  when  the  temperature 
of  the  frying  fat  was  kept  oonstant.  Baked  potatoes  retained 
80  per  cent  of  their  asoorbio  acid  during  baking.  The  reten- 
tion was  decreased  to  50  per  cent  after  a  43-mlnute  holding 
period  on  the  steam  table.  A  61  per  cent  retention  of  the 


20 


ascorbic  acid  value  was  found  as  the  rosult  of  cooking  and 
mashing  potatoes.   The  average  retention  of  the  noshed  pota- 
toes after  being  held  for  75  minutes  was  five  per  cent  of  the 
original  value. 

Daum,  Airaone,  and  Holllster  (1943)  reported  that  both 
new  and  old  potatoes  showed  slightly  decreased  values  of  ascor- 
bic acid  after  cooking.  A  15-mlnute  holding  period  affected 
the  retention  and  holding  one  hour  greatly  decreased  the  re- 
tention* 

Stroightoff  et  al.  (1946)  undertook  a  study  to  determine 
the  effeot  on  the  ascorbic  acid  content  of  potatoes  of  large- 
scale  methods  of  preparation  such  as  those  practiced  in  the 
army  consolidated  mess  and  company  raess.  They  reported  evi- 
dence to  show  that  holding  peeled  raw  potatoes  covered  with 
water  in  a  refrigerator  overnight,  or  as  long  as  22  hours,  or 
in  running  water  for  four  hours,  did  not  groatly  affect  the 
retention  of  ascorbic  acid.  This  la  a  point  of  significance 
because  holding  potatoes  In  water  is  a  practice  frequently 
resorted  to,  eapoclally  In  Institutions,  Richardson  and  Kay- 
field  (1943)  found  that  the  presoaklng  of  pared  potatoes  In 
water  for  four  hours  decreased  the  subsequent  retention  of 
aaoorbio  acid  in  boiling  or  pressure  cooking  by  about  four 
per  cent.  Soaking  for  four  hours  in  2.5  per  cent  salt  solu- 
tion before  cooking  resulted  in  better  retention  of  vitamin  C 
than  ocourred  when  potatoes  were  cooked  at  onco  after  prepara- 
tion. 

Strelghtoff  et  al.  (1946)  found  that  cooking  potatoes  In 
the  pressure  steamer  wus  most  conservative  of  the  aaoorbio 


21 


acid  value.  The  retention  In  this  case  was  about  04  per  cent. 
Baking  In  tne  Jackets  a  minimum  length  of  time  and  boiling 
gave  percentage  retentions  of  88  and  87.  When  steamed  pota- 
toes were  mashed,  there  was  very  little  retention  of  ascorbic 
acid. 

Jenkins  (1943)  reported  that  cooked  whole  potatoes  held 
at  room  temperature  retained  more  ascorbic  acid  than  mashed 
potatoes.  Whether  the  potatoes  were  kept  hot  in  small  por- 
tions or  large  quantities  did  not  seem  to  affect  the  retention. 
Keeping  mashed  potatoes  warm  for  one  hour  gave  a  25  per  cent 
retention  of  ascorbic  acid.  The  length  of  time  consumed  in 
the  mashing  of  potatoes  was  a  factor  In  ascorbic  acid  retention. 

Spinach 

Cutlar  et  al.  (1944)  in  making  a  review  of  literature 
reported  various  ascorbic  acid  values  for  spinach.  The  amounts 
ranged  from  19.8  to  123.9  mg.  per  100  grams.  Tressler,  Mack, 
and  King  (1936)  found  that  variety  was  an  Important  factor  in 
the  ascorbic  acid  content  of  spinach.   Broad  Flanders  yielded 
an  ascorbic  acid  value  of  89.0  mg.  per  100  grams  and  Princess 
Juliana  had  the  lowest  value,  38.0  mg.  per  100  grams.   They 
also  reported  that  soil  and  growing  conditions  exerted  a  def- 
inite influence  on  the  ascorbic  acid  content  of  spinach. 
Twelve  varieties  of  spinach  grown  on  upland  clay  loam  soil 
averaged  50  per  cent  higher  than  those  grown  on  muck  soil. 
Spinach  grown  in  the  autumn  had  higher  ascorbic  acid  values 
than  that  grown  in  the  spring.   Isgur  and  Fellers  (1938)  in 


22 


a  study  on  the  effeot  of  fertilizer  on  Sew  Zealand  spinach 
found  that  high  nitrogen  treatments  did  not  increase  the  as- 
corbic acid  value. 

Slepykh  (1940)  reported  thct  the  ascorbic  acid  of  the 
spinach  leaf  reached  its  maximum  content  during  the  middle 
stage  of  development  and  decreased  with  the  maturity  of  the 
plant.  Sheets  et  al.  (1941)  found  that  the  ascorbic  acid 
value  of  splnaoh  was  more  concentrated  in  the  leaf  blades  than 
in  the  petioles.  Trossler,  Hack,  and  Xing  (1936)  gave  data 
to  show  that  the  ascorbic  acid  in  splnaoh  is  principally  in 
the  leaves  and  that  the  stems  are  almost  devoid  of  this  vitamin. 

Tresaler,  Mack,  and  King  (1936)  reported  that  splnaoh 
stored  for  three  days  at  1.0°  to  3.0°  C.  retained  nearly  all 
its  vitamin  C,  but  that  held  at  room  temperature  lost  approxi- 
mately one-half  its  ascorbic  add  value  in  three  days  and 
almost  all  in  seven  days.  Wheeler  and  Tressler  (1939)  found 
that  freshly  harvested  New  Zealand  spinach  had  an  ascorbic 
acid  content  of  44.0  mg.  per  100  grams.  After  storage  at 
room  temperature  for  four  days  the  value  decreased  to  21  mg. 
and  storage  of  the  fresh  spinach  for  two  weeks  at  1.0°  to 
3.0°  C.  decreased  the  value  to  16.0  mg.  per  100  grams.  Ran- 
ganathan  (1936)  tested  the  effect  of  storage  at  room  tempera- 
ture on  samples  of  fresh  spinach  collected  during  dry  weather 
and  of  spinach  collected  during  wet  weather.  The  initial 
ascorbic  acid  oontents  were  36.9  and  53.3  rag.  per  100  grams, 
respectively.  After  24  hours  the  percentage  retention  of 
ascorbic  acid  in  the  dry  weather  splnaoh  was  70.0  and  after 
192  hours,  21.7.  The  wet  weather  spinach  showed  retentions 


25 


of  87.1  and  59.3  per  cent,  respectively,  for  the  two  storage 
periods. 

Procter  and  Greenlie  (1930)  reported  that  oven  for  short- 
time  storage  of  spinach,  temperatures  below  4.4°  C,  tended  to 
conserve  vitamin  C  which  deteriorated  rapidly  at  ordinary  room 
temperatures,  '/epplin  and  Elvehjen  (1944)  tested  spinaoh  soon 
after  harvesting  that  had  a  high  original  ascorbic  acid  oontent 
of  79  to  90  rag.  per  100  grams.  The  retention  decreased  rapidly 
during  storage  at  room  temperature  for  24  to  48  hours  but  was 
more  stable  thereafter.  Refrigerator  storage  offered  acme 
protection  and  after  72  hours  the  retention  was  slightly  more 
than  50  per  oent.  When  spinaoh  was  exposed  to  room  tempera- 
ture again,  the  oxidation  proceeded  at  a  high  rate. 

Platenius  and  Jones  (1944)  said  that  spinaoh  held  in  an 
atmosphere  of  low  oxygen  oontent  retained  more  than  three 
times  as  muoh  asoorbio  acid  as  the  lots  in  normal  air.  The 
presence  of  18  per  oent  CO2  at  a  temperature  of  66.0°  F. 
accelerated  the  destruction  of  ascorbic  acid  but  5.3  per  oent 
CO2  at  50.0°  P.  slightly  retarded  the  loss  of  asoorbic  acid. 

Halliday  and  Eoble  (1936)  having  made  a  comparison  of 
the  asoorbio  aoid  retention  during  oooklng  of  a  number  of 
vegetables,  found  that  spinaoh  retained  the  least  amount,  24 
per  oent,  during  boiling  for  eight  to  nine  minutes  in  a  large 
amount  of  water,  i.e.,  2f  C.  to  370  grams  of  spinaoh.  Of  the 
76  per  oent  loss,  47  per  cent  was  totally  destroyed  and  29  per 
cent  was  dissolved  in  the  oooklng  water.  When  cooked  in  only 
the  water  clinging  to  the  leaves,  approximately  36  per  cent 


24 


was  retained.  Of  the  amount  lost  about  45  per  cent  was  des- 
troyed and  19  per  cent  was  dissolved  in  the  cooking  water. 
Dunker  and  Fellers  (1930)  made  a  study  on  the  effect  of  the 
amount  of  water  used  in  oooking  spinach.  The  retention  of 
ascorbic  acid  in  spinach  decreased  as  the  volume  of  cooking 
water  increased.  The  solid  portion  retained  a  range  of  32  to 
67  per  cent  depending  on  the  amount  of  water  used.  One  pound 
of  spinach  steamed  with  100  cc,  of  water  retained  about  68  per 
cent.  One  pound  of  spinach  cooked  with  450  cc.  of  water  re- 
tained about  33  per  cent.  Ten  to  15  per  cent  of  the  ascorbio 
acid  was  leached  out  into  the  liquid  during  steaming  and  dur- 
ing cooking  with  the  larger  amount  of  water. 

Phillips,  Dickorson,  and  Penton  (date  of  the  report  was 
not  given)  found  that  cooking  600  grans  of  spinach  with  no 
more  water  than  that  which  clung  to  the  leaves  gave  an  ascor- 
bic acid  retention  of  60  per  cent.  The  oooking  time  required 
was  12  minutos.   Cooking  the  same  amount  of  splnaoh  In  250 
grams  of  water  and  in  626  grams  of  water  for  six  minutes  gave 
retentions  of  55  and  41  per  cent  respectively.  They  found 
that  oooking  600  grams  of  spinach  in  625  grams  of  water  at  an 
initial  temperature  of  90,5°  C,  gave  a  41  per  cent  retention 
of  ascorbic  acid.  The  sane  amount  of  spinach  in  the  same 
amount  of  water  at  an  initial  temperature  of  20.0°  C.  gave  a 
34  per  cent  retention.  The  cooking  times  required  were  six 
minutes  when  the  initial  temperature  was  higher  and  15  minutes 
when  it  was  lover. 

Cutlar  et  al.  (1944)  reported  that  in  quantity  oooking 


25 


the  retention  of  the  ascorbic  acid  of  spinach  was  increased 
by  ten  percent  when  the  amount  of  water  was  Increased  four 
times  above  the  amount  required  to  cover  the  spinach  as  it 
began  to  cook  In  steam- jacketed  kettles.  Spinach,  in  15- 
pound  lots,  boiled  In  otoam-Jackoted  kettles  with  eight  quarts 
of  water  retainod  50  per  oont  of  tho  original  asoorbio  acid 
but  only  40  per  cent  when  four  times  as  much  water  was  used. 
The  same  amounts  of  splnaoh  cooked  in  a  container  on  tcp  of 
the  range  with  eight  quarts  and  two  quarts  of  water  retained, 
respectively,  32  and  33  per  cent  of  the  ascorbic  acid.  These 
workers  observed  that  when  the  smaller  amount  of  water  was 
used,  more  time  was  required  for  the  spinach  to  reach  a  stage 
of  "doneness"  than  that  cooked  in  the  larger  amount  of  water. 
The  length  of  time  required  for  the  water  to  reach  the  boiling 
point  after  the  spinach  was  added  depended  on  the  amount  of 
water  and  the  concentration  of  heat  on  the  bottom  and  sides 
of  the  cooking  utensil.   Increasing  the  quantities  of  spinach 
cooked  at  one  time  decreased  the  ascorbic  acid  content.  Spin- 
ach in  five-pound  lots  cooked  in  the  pressure  steamer,  stecaa- 
Jccketed  kettle,  and  In  a  stockpot  on  the  range  had  decreasing 
amounts  of  ascorbic  acid  according  to  the  order  of  equipment 
named.  The  retentions  for  the  pressure  steamer  were  76  per 
cent;  for  the  steam-Jacketed  kettle,  67  per  cent;  and  for  the 
stockpot  on  the  range,  53  per  oent.   Splnaoh  In  15-pound  lots 
cooked  in  a  25-gallon  steam-Jacketed  kettle  gave  a  retention 
of  50  per  cent.   The  same  amount  cooked  in  the  same  amount  of 
water  in  a  16-gallon  stockpot  on  the  r  ange  gave  a  retention  of 


26 


32  per  cent. 

Cutlar  at  al.  (1944)  also  i'ound  that  drained  cooked 
spinach  held  at  150°  P.  in  a  heated  food  service  unit  retained 
85  per  cent  of  its  ascorbic  acid  after  15  minutes,  61  par  cent 
aftor  30  minutes,  and  25  per  cent  after  120  minutes. 

SAMPLIIIO  PROCEDURE 

Since  the  purpose  of  this  study  was  to  make  comparative 
determinations  of  the  ascorbic  acid  content  of  selected  vege- 
tables during  stages  of  preparation  and  service,  it  was  found 
advisable  to  take  samples  as  representative  as  possible  from 
the  lots  of  vegetables  as  they  were  ordinarily  prepared  by  the 
regular  workers  of  the  cafeteria.  Thus  no  effort  was  made  to 
determine  the  highest  possible  original  content  in  any  case. 
Samples  were  also  tested  to  determine  the  effects  of  15-ralnuto 
holding  periods  on  the  stean  table  because  during  ordinary 
serving  periods  15  minutes  was  the  longest  time  any  food  was 
held  on  the  steam  table  before  it  was  served  and  the  dish 
replenished  by  a  new  supply  from  the  kitchen.  At  the  cafeteria 
all  the  samples  of  the  vegetables  to  be  tested  were  collected 
into  previously  prepared  bottles  of  metaphosphoric  acid,  taken 
to  the  laboratory,  and  there  analyzed  at  once  for  their  ascor- 
bic acid  content. 

In  order  to  become  familar  with  kitchen  procedures  and 
details  of  the  problems  involved  in  this  study,  small  numbers 
of  samples  were  taken  over  a  period  of  several  days,  first  of 
tomatoes  and  then  of  cabbage.  Later  a  larger  group  of  samples 


27 


of  each  of  the  vegetables  were  taken  for  more  extensive  study. 

Tomatoes 

At  the  cafeteria  work  was  usually  started  on  tomatoes 
about  10:30  a.m.  when  they  were  taken  from  the  refrigerator, 
weighed,  washed,  oored  and  quartered.   Then  they  were  sent  to 
the  kitchen. 

For  sampling,  tomatoes  were  selected  that  were  free  from 
blemish  and  of  uniform  ripeness  as  Indicated  by  color  and 
firmness.   For  the  analyses  of  raw  tomatoes  each  of  four  washed, 
cored  tomatoes  was  cut  into  quarters.   One  quarter  of  each  of 
the  tomatoes  was  put  into  each  of  four  bottles  of  acid.   For 
analyses  of  cooked  tomatoes,  a  whole  raw  tomato,  washed  and  cored, 
was  weighed  and  put  into  each  of  six  individual  baking 
dishes.   The  small  porcelain  dishes  were  used  in  order  to  keep 
the  weighed  tomatoes  separate.   These  dishes  of  tomatoes  were 
placed  in  a  shallow  stainless  steel  pan,  covered  with  a  damp 
cloth  and  held  at  kitchen  temperature  until  the  tomatoes  to 
be  served  on  the  steam  table  were  cooked.   Then  three  of  the 
dishes  were  plt.ced  in  the  steamer  or  oven  at  the  same  time  and 
for  the  same  length  of  time  as  were  the  tomatoes  to  be  served 
first.   The  remaining  three  dishes  were  held  for  a  longer 
period  at  kitchen  temperature  and  then  cooked  as  above.   After 
the  samples  were  cooked,  they  were  transferred  into  bottles 
of  acid.   Approximately  50  samples  of  tomatoes  were  thus  stud- 
ied over  a  period  of  five  days. 

For  a  larger  number  of  samples,  four  tomatoes  were  cut 


28 


into  fifths.   One-fifth  was  placed  into  each  of  five  bottles 
of  acid  which  had  been  previously  weighed.   Another  four  toma- 
toes were  cut  into  fifths  and  put  into  each  of  five  baking 
dishes  and  the  procedure  was  repeated  using  bottles  or  baking 
dishes  until  the  following  samples  were  collected:   ten  for 
testing  tomatoes  raw,  ten  for  testing  tomatoes  after  they  had 
been  steamed  for  five  minutes,  and  ten  for  testing  tomatoes 
steamed  five  minutes  and  held  on  the  ste ■  m  table  for  15  minutes. 

Cabbage 

Over  a  period  of  five  days  39  samples  of  cabbage  were 
analyzed  for  their  ascorbic  ucid  content.   The  preliminary  work 
on  the  cabbage  was  usually  begun  about  10:00  a.m.  in  a  basement 
room  of  the  cafeteria  and  oontlnued  until  the  cabbage  was  ready 
for  cooking.   Approximately  15  pounds  of  cabbage  were  cleaned, 
washed,  quartered,  cored  and  sent  to  the  kitchen  where  the 
cabbage  was  shredded  on  an  electric  Hobart  slicer.   The  shred- 
ded cabbage  was  put  into  a  large  stainless  steel  pan  20"  x  19° 
x  4",  covered  with  a  well  dampened  cloth  and  allowed  to  stand 
until  it  was  ccoked.   Generally  there  was  a  standing  period  of 
30  to  45  minutes  in  the  kitchen  before  the  cabbage  to  be  served 
first  on  the  counter  was  placed  in  the  steamer. 

In  order  to  ;et  random  sampling,  the  cabbage  as  soon  as 
it  was  shredded,  was  well  mixed  with  forks,  and  samples  were 
taken  for  chemical  analysis.   Approximately  two-ounce  portions 
were  weighed  and  put  into  each  of  three  bottles  of  acid  which 
had  been  prepared  for  this  purpose.   In  all  instances  great 


29 


oare  was  taken  to  have  the  samples  well  oovered  with  aold. 
lasaediately  preparation  for  taking  samples  of  cabbage  for 
steaming  was  begun.  About  one  pound  of  shredded  cabbage  was 
plaoed  in  a  small  stainless  steel  pan.   Fifty-gran  portions 
were  welgnad  Into  each  of  six  porcelain  baking  dishes  which 
were  placed  in  a  large  shallow  stainless  steel  pan,  covered 
with  •  damp  oloth  and  allowed  to  remain  in  the  kitchen  until 
the  cabbage  that  was  to  be  served  first  on  the  counter  was 
cooked.  This  cabbage  for  serving  on  the  counter  Hsi  the  sam- 
ples for  testing  for  ascorbic  acid  content  were  plaoed  in  the 
steamer  at  the  same  time  and  for  the  some  length  cf  time. 
When  the  cabbage  was  taken  from  the  steamer,  three  of  the  sam- 
ples were  put  into  aold.  Three  of  the  oabbage  samples,  as 
soon  as  they  htd  been  removed  from  the  steamer,  were  placed 
on  the  steam  table  for  IS  minutes  during  a  regular  serving 
period  when  the  steam  was  turned  on  as  usual,  and  then  collected 
into  6.cid.  The  baking  dishes  did  not  cool  rapidly,  but  It  was 
deolded  they  were  the  best  small  containers  for  this  purpose. 
The  retention  of  heat  might  have  been  somewhat  similar  to  that 
in  a  larger  quantity  of  vegetable. 

Samples  were  also  taken  from  the  large  quantity  of  raw 
shredded  cabbage  after  it  had  stood  at  kitchen  temperature 
for  45  to  60  minutes. 

When  a  larger  number  (40)  of  samples  were  taken,  about 
six  pounds  of  oabbage,  cleaned,  washed,  and  shredded,  were 
placed  in  a  stainless  steel  pan.  l*rora  this  three  sets  of  sam- 
ples were  taken  alternately,  i.e.,  as  oabbage  was  weighed,  one 


30 


portion  was  put  into  acid,  the  next  portion  into  a  baking  dish 
for  steaming,  and  the  third  portion  into  a  baking  dish  for 
steaming  and  holding  15  minutes  on  the  steam  table.   This  was 
repeated  until  there  were  ten  samples  in  each  lot.   After 
being  steamed  ten  samples  were  collected  into  acid  at  once  and 
ten  were  placed  on  the  steam  table  for  15  minutes.   The  steam 
table  was  heated  the  same  as  it  was  during  a  regular  serving 
period.   The  remainder  of  the  raw  cabbage  was  left  in  a  large 
stainless  steel  bowl  for  one  hour.   It  was  then  mixed  with 
forks  and  ten  weighed  samples  were  put  Into  acid. 

Potatoes 

Exploratory  work  was  done  on  ten  samples  of  potatoes. 
The  samples  were  taken  from  the  potatoes  that  were  being  pre- 
pared for  serving  on  the  counter.   About  20  pounds  of  potatoes 
had  been  washed,  peeled  in  a  Hobart  machine,  eyed  by  hand,  cut 
into  quarters,  and  allowed  to  stand  in  water  at  room  tempera- 
ture.  Usually  the  preparation  was  begun  about  8:30  a.m.  and 
finished  between  9:30  and  10:00  when  the  potatoes  were  sent 
to  the  kitchen.   Thus  some  of  the  potatoes  were  in  water  for 
a  longer  period  of  time  than  others.   An  attempt  was  mude  to 
take  random  samples  by  selecting  potatoes  from  different  parts 
of  the  container. 

Raw  potatoes  were  weighed  In  50-gram  portions  and  put  into 
four  bottles  of  acid.   For  samples  of  cooked  potatoes  50  crams 
of  raw  potatoes  were  placed  In  each  of  four  cheesecloth  bags 
and  Inserted  in  various  parts  of  the  perforated  steamer  pan 


31 


among  the  potatoes  being  prepared  for  the  counter,  and  steamed 
for  30  minutes.  These  cooked  samples  were  weighed  and  put 
Into  acid.  The  average  loss  of  weight  was  found  to  bo  1.4 
grams  per  50  grama  of  potatoes.  Therofore,  It  was  assumed 
that  48. 6  grams  of  cooked  potatoes  were  equivalent  to  50  grama 
when  raw.  Accordingly  four  4G. 6-gram  portions  were  taken  from 
the  potatoes  mashed  in  the  Hobart  mixer  after  four  minutes  of 
mashing  before  the  addition  of  milk.  This  was  not  representa- 
tive procedure  sinoe  the  mashed  potatoes  for  serving  were 
ordinarily  subjeoted  to  mixing  and  whipping  for  a  much  longer 
time* 

It  was  decided  to  uae  a  dry  weight  baaia  for  comparison 
of  ascorbic  aoid  values  of  potatoes  when  making  observations 
on  a  largor  number  (40)  of  samples.  It  was  felt  that  this 
method  would  be  more  accurate  than  that  of  assuming  that  1*4 
grams  represented  the  loss  in  weight  per  50  grams  of  potatoes 
aa  was  done  in  the  exploratory  work. 

For  thla  aet  of  samples  ten  50-gram  portion*  of  raw  pota- 
toes were  weighed  and  put  Into  aoid.  Ten  samples  taken  from 
the  lot  of  potatoes  that  had  been  steanod  35  minutes  were  put 
into  acid.  Ten  samples  of  the  mashed  potatoes  ready  for  serv- 
ing were  collected  into  acid.  About  600  grama  of  the  mashed 
potatoes  for  serving  were  placed  in  a  atalnleas  ateel  bowl 
and  allowed  to  stand  on  the  baok  of  the  kitchen  atove  for  45 
minutes.  Fifty-gram  amounts  were  put  Into  each  of  ten  bottles 
of  acid. 

For  calculating  the  percentage  of  dry  weight  a  little  more 
than  60  grama  of  potatoes  from  each  lot  from  which  samplos 


32 


had  been  taken.  I.e.,  raw,  steamed  35  minutes,  mashed,  mashed 
and  held  45  minutes,  were  put  Into  wide-mouthed,  pint-size, 
Kerr  canning  Jure  which  were  then  tightly  sealed  and  taken  to 
the  laboratory.   Twenty  s;rams  of  each  were  put  Into  each  of 
three  aluminum  drying  dishes  which  had  been  previously  prepared 
and  weighed.   These  samples  wore  dried  in  a  Preas  vacuum  oven 
at  100°  C.  and  18  pounds  pressure  for  18  hours.  They  were 
weighed  and  the  percentage  of  dry  weight  of  the  various  lots 
of  potatoes  from  which  they  were  taken  was  determined. 

Spinach 

In  order  to  obtain  a  number  of  samples  of  spinach  large 
enough  to  be  indicative  of  results,  ten  samples  were  collected 
during  various  stages  of  preparation  of  the  spinach.  The  first 
samples  were  taken  from  the  spinach  as  it  was  delivered,  unwashed. 
Fifty-gram  portions  were  weighed  and  put  into  acid.  The  rest 
of  the  spinach  was  washed  three  times  and  the  long  stems  were 
removed  so  t  hat  s»bout  one  inch  of  stem  was  left.   The  spinach 
was  dried  by  being  spread  out  on  tea  towels  and  paper  toweling 
and  patted  dry  with  paper  and  cloth  towels.   It  was  placed  on 
a  board  and  cut  with  a  French  knife  as  was  ordinarily  done  for 
the  serving  of  raw  spinach  on  the  steam  table.   Twenty  50-gram 
portions  of  this  spinach  were  collected  alternately  into  acid 
and  Into  baking  dishes.  The  ten  baking  dishes  of  spinach  were 
held  for  15  minutes  on  the  steam  table  which  was  heated  as  for 
ordinary  serving,  and  then  the  samples  were  put  Into  acid. 


33 


The  remainder  of  the  raw,  washed,  and  cut  spinach  was 
held  in  a  large  stainless  steel  bowl  at  room  temperature  for 
one  hour.  Ten  50-gram  sanpleB  were  then  put  into  the  acid. 

CHEMICAL  nOOBBll 

The  indophenol  titration  method  of  Bessey  and  King  (1933), 
modified  by  Mack  and  Treasler  (1937),  as  described  by  Bessey 
(1939)  was  used  in  analyzing  samples  for  their  ascorbic  acid 
content. 

To  prepare  a  0.05  per  cent  solution  of  sodium,  2,6-dichlo- 
rophenollndophenol,  the  indicator  or  dye  used,  125  mg.  of 
Indophenol  (Eastman)  was  rj.aced  on  a  filter  paper  and  washed 
into  a  volumetric  flask  with  hot  water.  After  cooling,  the 
volume  was  made  up  to  250  cc.   The  aqueous  solution  of  the  dye 
changes  slowly  ever,  at  low  temperature;  hence  It  was  kept  in 
the  refrigerator  and  fresh  solutions  were  made  not  less  fre- 
quently than  every  four  dayB.   The  dye  was  3tar.darized  against 
ascorbic  acid  each  day  it  was  used. 

The  ascorbic  acid  solution  for  the  standardization  of  the 
dye  wss  carefully  prepared  by  dissolving  one  ampule  (0.1  gm. ) 
of  crystalline  ascorbic  acid  (Cebione  Merck)  in  three  per  cent 
metaphosphoric  acid  and  bringing  the  volume  up  to  200  cc. 

To  standardize  the  dye,  five  cc.  of  ascorbic  acid  solution 
were  diluted  with  a  small  amount  of  distilled  water  and  titrated 
with  dye  until  a  very  faint  pink  color  persisted  for  30  seconds. 

The  strength  of  the  ascorbic  acid  solution  was  checked  by 
titrating  a  five-cc.  portion,  to  which  a  arriall  amount  of  sodium 


34 


bioarbonate  had  been,  added,  with  0.011?  iodine  until  the  end 
point  was  almost  reached.  Then  two  drops  of  starch  solution 
were  added  to  the  ascorbic  acid  solution  and  titration  con- 
tinued by  drops  until  a  blue  oolor  first  appeared.  The  iodine 
solution  was  prepared  by  taking  25  cc.  of  a  stock  solution  of 
approximately  0.2N  iodine  and  making  it  up  to  500  cc. 

A  ten  cc.  portion  of  0.01N  standard  arsenious  oxide  was 
titrated  against  the  iodine  solution  in  the  manner  Just  des- 
cribed. 

For  all  standardizations  and  titrations  care  was  taken  to 
have  all  reagents  at  room  temperature. 

Ascorbic  acid  is  rendered  fairly  stable  in  an  acid  medium 
of  proper  pH  value.  Three  per  cent  metaphosphorio  acid  has 
been  found  very  satisfactory  for  this  purpose.  Therefore,  the 
vegetables  to  bo  analyzed  were  oollccted  into  metaphosphorio 
acid  of  sufficient  concentration  to  insure  a  three  per  cent 
solution  after  the  sample  was  mixed,  and  brought  up  to  volume. 
The  day  before  samples  were  to  be  taken,  62,5  cc.  of  12  per 
cent  metaphosphorio  acid  was  put  into  clear  glass  bottles  with 
unlinod  plastic  lids.  These  bottles  of  acid  were  weighed,  if 
necessary  for  sample  collection,  and  placed  in  the  refrigerator 
until  they  were  used. 

The  samples  were  oollected  at  the  college  cafeteria  as 
described  in  the  sampling  procedure. 

For  the  determination  of  ascorbic  acid  content,  it  was 
neoessary  to  have  the  cellular  structure  of  plant  tissues  well 
broken  down.  For  this  purpose  the  Waring  blendor  was  used. 


35 


To  prevent  excessive  frothing,  two  to  three  drops  of  butyl 
■tearate  were  added  to  the  material  before  it  was  ground  in 
the  blendor.  The  use  of  the  Waring  blendor  for  cooked  pota- 
toes resulted  in  a  nonf llterable  starch  solution.  The  use  of 
a  mortar  and  pestle  for  grinding  proved  satisfactory.  Kahn 
and  Halllday  (1944)  reported  that  samples  of  cooked  potatoes 
macerated  in  a  Waring  blendor  formed  an  "opaque  gelatinous 
mass." 

After  each  sample  was  macerated  and  thoroughly  mixed 
either  in  the  blendor,  or  in  the  case  of  potatoes,  with  mortar 
and  pestle,  distilled  water  was  added  to  the  solution  to  make 
up  its  volume  to  250  co.  It  was  mixed  well,  filtered,  and 
ten  cc.  aliquot  portions  were  diluted  with  a  small  amount  of 
distilled  water  and  titrated  in  duplicate  with  sodium 
2,6-dlohlorophenollndophenol,  A  very  faint  pink  whioh  faded 
within  30  seconds  was  considered  the  end  point.  Duplicate 
titrations  were  always  made  for  standardizations  and  for  as- 
corblo  acid  determinations.  Oreater  speed  and  greater  preci- 
sion were  possible  the  second  time.  Prom  the  sundry  titrations 
calculations  were  made  to  determine  the  milligrams  of  ascorbic 
acid  per  100  grams  of  vegetable.  The  following  formulas  were 
used  in  making  the  calculations: 
The  dye  factor  or  rag.  asoorblo  acid  per  co.  dye  • 

oo.  As2  O3  x  .00  x  cc.  lodlno  against  ascorbic  acid 

cc.  iodine  against  Asg  O3  x  00.  dye  against  ascorbic  acid 

(1  cc,  of  Il/lOO  iodine  »  .08  mg.  ascorbio  acid.) 

The  mg.  ascorbic  acid  per  100  grams  vegetable  « 

100  mrc.  of  vegetable  x  vol.  of  sol,  x  dye  faotor  x  dye  titration 
wt.  of  vegetable  used  x  vol.  used  for  titration 


38 


DISCUSSION  OF  R2SU118 
Tomatoes 

Experiments  carried  out  on  approximately  50  samples  of 
tomatoes  taken  over  a  period  of  five  days  Indicated  th.'.t  their 
ascorbic  acid  values  varied  somewhat  and  that  it  was  difficult 
to  ascribe  these  fluctuations  entirely  to  any  of  the  various 
steps  in  preparation.   The  mean  ascorbic  acid  content  In  2£- 
samples  of  ra?»  tomatoes  was  17.1  x   1.3  itig.  per  100  grama. 
This  average  corresponds  to  the  lower  values  in  the  range  of 
15  to  40  mg.  per  100  grams  of  most  commercial  varieties  of 
tomatoes  as  reported  by  Reynard  and  Kanapaux  (1S42).   It  was 
Impossible  to  find  cut  where  and  under  what  conditions  the 
tomatoes  used  In  these  experiments  had  been  grown.  Storage 
and  transportation  problems  were  ^reat  because  of  the  war  con- 
ditions.  It  was  evident,  in  so.ue  cases,  that  the  tomatoes  had 
been  picked  when  very  green.  Moreover,  they  were  not  sorted 
according  to  s^e,  and  they  *ere  not  always  well  packed.   The 
fact  that  the  ascorbic  acid  value  of  the  tomatoes  in  this 
study  was  not  generally  high  added  Interest  to  bba  project. 
Since  tomatoes  are  usually  included  among  the  food3  that  con- 
tribute substantially  to  the  vitamin  C  content  of  our  diet, 
it  was  of  practical  value  to  mates  this  investigation. 

The  range  of  14.9  to  20.2  nig.  per  100  grams  did  not  show 
as  great  variation  In  the  raw  tomatoes  as  might  have  been 
expected  because  many  workers  have  reported  greater  ranges 
even  in  tomatoes  of  the  same  variety.   In  general  samples  of 
cooked  tomatoes  seemed  to  indicate  a  decrease  of  tne  original 


37 


asoorbic  aold  content  but  In  the  small  troupe  of  samples 
greatly  varying  results  were  obtained.   In  one  set  of  three 
samples  there  was  apparently  a  61  per  cent  retention  of  the 
original  ascorbic  acid  content  when  tomatoes  were  held  at 
room  temperature  after  being  washed,  cored  and  baked  for  22 
minutes.  Similar  procedures  seemed  to  result  in  a  retention 
of  94  per  cent  in  another  set  of  three  samples.   In  two  in- 
stances cooked  tomatoes  appeared  to  have  a  greater  asoorbic 
acid  content  than  did  the  raw  tomatoes  sampled  on  the  same 
day.  These  discrepancies  oould  have  been  due  to  the  variable 
content  of  ascorbio  acid  within  the  tomatoes.  The  samples  of 
raw  tomatoes  wore  made  up  of  quarters  from  four  different 
tomatoes  but  for  sampling  oooked  tomatoes,  whole  tomatoes  were 
used.  Thus  a  whole  tomato  of  high  original  ascorbic  acid  con- 
tent could  have  greater  value  even  after  being  cooked  than  the 
samples  made  up  of  parts  of  four  raw  tomatoes  if  these  toma- 
toes happened  to  be  of  lower  original  ascorbic  acid  content. 
With  one  exception,  the  groups  of  small  samples  indicated  that 
the  retention  of  ascorbio  acid  was  decreased  by  an  increased 
cooking  tine. 

Since  steaming  in  the  pressure  steamer  for  five  minutes 
was  the  most  typical  method  of  oooklng  tomatoes  at  the  oafe- 
ter-la,  that  method  of  oooklng  was  the  one  used  in  this  ex- 
periment when  a  larger  number  of  samples  were  taken  on  the 
same  day.   Composite  samples  were  taken  for  testing  both  raw 
and  oooked  tomatoes  as  described  in  the  sampling  procedure. 
The  mean  ascorbic  acid  values  found  in  the  tomatoes  were  these: 
raw,  16.4  i  0.5;  steamed  for  five  minutes,  14.1  t  2.4.  Thus 


38 


the  retention  during  cooking  was  approximately  87  per  cent. 
Holding  the  cooked  tomatoes  on  the  steam  table  for  15  minutes 
caused  no  further  decrease.  This  latter  result  Is  In  accord- 
ance with  the  report  of  Gleim  et  al.  (1946)  In  their  study  on 
the  effect  of  quantity  preparation  procedures  on  canned  toma- 
toes. They  found  that  heating  the  canned  tomatoes  in  a  steamer 
for  15  minutes  caused  "practically  no  destruction  of  ascorbic 
acid." 

Cabbage 

Thfi  ranr;e  of  the  ascorbic  acid  content  of  raw  shredded 
cabbage  per  100  grama  for  25  samples  was  35.2  to  54.2  m£. 
Many  investigators  hove  shown  that  the  original  ascorbic  acid 
content  of  cabbage  may  fluctuate  greatly.   In  this  study  noth- 
ing could  be  done  to  control  the  factors  of  variety,  exposure 
to  sunlight  during  the  growing  period,  and  storage  of  the  cab- 
bage previous  to  purchase.   Since  the  work  was  done  In  June 
and  the  first  part  of  Julv,  1945,  summer  cabbage  was  used. 
However,  It  oould  not  be  determined  how  much  time  had  elapsed 
since  it  was  harvested,  nor  at  what  temperatures  it  had  been 
held. 

An  average  of  43.5  t  5.9  mg.  per  100  "rams  found  in  25 
samples  of  raw  cabbage  indicated  a  fairly  high  original  ascor- 
bic acid  content. 

Shredded  cabbage  was  used  for  sampling  as  shreddinr  was 
typical  of  the  manner  of  preparation  for  serving  at  the  cafe- 
teria and  gave  an  opportunity  to  have  the  various  parts  of  the 


39 


oabbage  well  mixed.  Bray  and  Thorpe  (1944)  found  an  asoorbic 
add  range  of  25  to  79  mg.  per  100  grama  In  ten  samples  of 
oabbage  that  had  been  out  Into  wedges,  then  oooked  and  strained. 
They  oonoluded  that  "ninoed  or  chopped"  oabbage  would  give 
better  agreement  between  replicate  samples. 

Shredded  cabbage  held  at  room  temperature  for  one  hour 
showed  94  to  96  per  oent  retentions  of  the  original  ascorbio 
acid  content  of  nine  samples  and  100  per  oent  retention  in 
the  group  of  ten  samples.  There  was  only  88  per  cent  reten- 
tion in  one  group  of  three  samples.  The  loss  in  this  case, 
whloh  might  have  been  due  to  finer  shredding,  was  greater 
than  the  losses  reported  in  the  literature  by  recent  workers. 
In  these  experiments  the  shredding  was  done  on  a  Hobart  elec- 
tric slloer.  Ordinarily  the  cabbage  was  cut  into  shreds  about 
three-eighths  of  an  inch  wide. 

Six  samples  of  shredded  cabbage  held  for  45  to  60  minutes 
and  steamed  for  seven  minutes  showed  an  asoorbic  acid  reten- 
tion of  79  to  81  per  cent  of  the  original  value.  Ten  samples 
steamed  for  seven  minutes  Immediately  after  the  cabbage  was 
shredded  showed  an  average  retention  of  68  per  cent. 

The  retention  of  ascorbio  aoid  during  holding  on  the 
steam  table  for  15  minutes  was  apparently  less  when  the  shred- 
ded oabbage  had  been  held  from  45  to  60  minutes  before  being 
put  into  the  pressure  steamer.  Six  samples  of  shredded  cab- 
bage held  for  45  to  60  minutes,  steamed  seven  minutes,  and 
held  on  the  steam  table  for  15  minutes  showed  ascorbic  acid 
retentions  of  66  to  74  per  cent.  Ten  samples  steamed  seven 
minutes  and  held  15  minutes  on  the  steam  table  showed  an 


40 


average  retention  of  85  per  cent. 


Potatoes 


The  potatoes  usod  In  this  study  were  of  the  Red  Triumph 
variety  locally  produced.  Since  the  work  was  done  about  the 
middle  of  July,  it  Is  probable  that  the  potatoes  had  been 
recently  harvested.   The  mean  ascorbic  acid  value  of  14  raw 
samples  34.2  ±  3.1  rag.  per  100  grams,  on  the  basis  of  wet 
weight,  showed  that  the  potatoes  had  a  comparatively  high 
original  ascorbic  acid  content.  According  to  the  report  of 
Leichsenrlng  (1944)  immature  Irish  Cobbler  potatoes  at  the 
Nebraska  station  had  an  ascorbic  acid  content  of  36.8  mg.  per 
100  grams  on  June  30.  The  highest  value  given  for  Triumph 
potatoes  was  29.8  mg.  in  October.  Values  were  not  recorded 
for  this  variety  during  June  and  July  in  the  National  Coopera- 
tive Project.  The  range  of  28.3  to  38.2  mg.  per  100  grams 
for  the  14  samples  of  raw  potatoes  was  not  f-reater  than  was 
expected  because  there  were  some  variables  that  could  cause 
such  results.   The  fluctuations  could  have  been  due  to  the 
parts  of  the  tubers  tested.   The  samples  were  chosen  from  vari- 
ous portions  of  the  lot  of  potatoes  being  prepared  for  serving. 

The  potatoes  cooked  in  a  pressure  steamer  showed  a  reten- 
tion of  approximately  86  per  cent.   This  was  comparable  to 
some  of  the  results  reported  in  the  literature.  Mashing  the 
potatoes  in  the  manner  ordinarily  done  for  serving  resulted 
in  a  retention  of  55  per  cent  of  the  original  ascorbic  acid 
content.   The  calculations  made  on  the  dry  weight  gave  almost 


41 


the  same  results  that  were  obtained  on  the  wet  basi3.   It  was 
noticed  thu»t  some  cooks  subjected  the  mashed  potatoes  to  longer 
periods  of  mixing  and  whipping  than  others. 

Holding  the  mashed  potatoes  on  the  back  of  the  stove  for 
45  minutes  resulted  in  an  additional  loss  of  ascorbic  acid. 
The  average  ascorbic  acid  value  of  potatoes  tested  immediately 
after  mashing  was  19.6  t  1.3  mg.  per  100  grams  (wet  basis)  and 
that  of  potatoes,  mashed  and  held  on  the  stove,  was  14.7  x   1.1  mg. 

Spinach 

Raw  spinach  is  often  served  at  the  college  cafeteria. 
The  washed,  cut,  raw  spinach  is  placed  in  a  stainless  steel 
bowl.  A  hot  vinegar  dressing  is  poured  over  the  spinach  which 
is  then  held  on  the  steam  counter  where  it  is  served. 

Since  cooking  destroys  ascorbic  acid  to  a  greater  or 
lesser  extent,  there  is  an  advantage  in  serving  some  vegetables 
raw.  However,  the  amount  of  this  vitamin  retained  during  the 
preparation  of  vegetables  to  be  served  raw  and  during  their 
holding  periods  is  subject  to  considerable  variation. 

An  experiment  was  made  to  determine  the  results  of  holding 
the  cut  spinach  on  the  steam  table  for  15  minutes,  and  at  room 
temperature  for  one  hour.  No  testa  were  made  on  the  effect  of 
adding  the  dressing.  The  vinegar  dressing  Itself  probably  did 
not  cause  a  marked  destruction  of  the  ascorbic  acid  content  of 
the  spinach  although  adding  it  when  hot  might  have  resulted  in 
some  decrease.  Quinn  et  al.  (1946)  found  that  adding  a  vinegar 
mayonnaise  to  shredded  oabbage  aided  the  retention  of  ascorbic 


42 


acid.  Similar  results  might  be  expected  for  spinach. 

In  this  experiment  the  original  ascorbic  acid  value  of 
the  spinach  was  low.   Of  the  first  ten  samples  taken  from  the 
unwashed,  uncut  spinach  the  mean  value  was  13.0  ±  1.2  mg.  per 
100  grama.  This  was  lower  than  the  mean  of  15.0  *  2,4  mg. 
found  In  the  ten  determinations  of  the  washed,  cut  spinach. 
The  lower  values  in  the  unwashed,  uncut  spinach  may  have  been 
due  to  the  greater  quantity  of  stems  which  had  not  been  re- 
moved. According  to  Tressler,  Hack,  and  King  (1936)  the  ascor- 
bic acid  content  of  the  stems  of  spinach  is  comparatively  low. 
The  mean  ascorbic  acid  value  of  the  raw,  washed,  cut  samples 
was  used  for  calculating  percentage  retentions  because  the 
purpose  of  this  experiment  was  to  determine  the  effect  of  hold- 
ing spinach  on  the  steam  table  for  15  minutes  and  at  roon  tem- 
perature for  one  hour.  The  variety  of  spinach  and  the  length 
of  time  since  harvesting  could  not  be  determined.   However, 
the  spinach  showed  marked  deterioration,  nearly  half  of  the 
amount  purchased,  one  bushel,  had  to  be  discarded  as  the  leaves 
were  badly  wilted  and  slimy.  According  to  the  literature  re- 
ported, variety  as  well  as  storage  time  and  temperatures  are 
very  Important  factors  in  the  ascorbic  acid  content  of  spinach. 

Holding  the  out  spinach  on  the  steam  table  for  15  minutes 
gave  a  mean  value  of  12.3  i  1.9  mg.  per  100  grams  for  ten  sam- 
ples. This  was  an  82  per  cent  retention  of  the  original. 
Holding  the  cut  spinach  at  room  temperature,  26.0°  C,  for  one 
hour  gave  a  mean  value  of  10.8  i  1.7  lag.  for  ton  samples.  This 
was  a  72  per  cent  retention  of  the  original  and  indicated  a 


43 


very  rnpld  destruction.  The  loss  might  have  bean  due  to  the 
fact  that  the  spinach  had  been  out  Into  small  pieces.  The 
loss  would  probably  have  been  retarded  if  the  spinach  had  been 
held  uncut  In  the  refrigerator  and  out  as  needed  for  serving. 

The  results  obtained  in  these  experiments  carried  out  on 
tomatoes,  cabbage,  potatoes,  and  spinach  showed  that  these 
vegetables  as  served  in  the  cafeteria  at  Kansas  State  College 
contained  appreciable  amounts  of  osoorblc  acid.  By  a  Judi- 
cious choice  of  vegetables  one  could  select  at  this  cafeteria 
a  day's  diet  that  would  contribute  an  adequate  amount  of  vita- 
min C  without  including  citrus  fruit  or  juice  in  the  menus. 

Sarett  et  al.  (194G)  in  roporting  a  study  made  on  the 
vitamin  contont  of  restaurant  foods  found  that  "moot  of  the 
cooked  foods  contained  loss  than  ten  mg.  asoorblc  acid  per 
100  grama"  and  that  the  daily  ascorbic  acid  requirements  could 
be  met  only  by  the  inoluslon  in  the  diet  of  fresh  fruit  Juices. 

Certainly  ascorbio  acid  is  extremely  labile  and  great  oare 
should  be  taken  to  oonserve  the  amounts  that  may  be  present  in 
various  vegetables. 


raottsx 

In  this  study  investigations  were  made  to  determine  the 
effects  of  oertain  preparations  and  serving  techniques  on  the 
ascorbic  acid  content  of  selected  vegetables  at  the  cafeteria 
of  Kansas  State  College. 

Experiments  were  carried  out  on  tomatoes,  cabbage,  pota- 
toes, and  spinach* 

The  results  indioated  that  the  ascorbic  acid  oontent  of 
tomatoes  is  somewhat  decreased  by  cooking.  Steaming  in  the 
pressure  steamer  for  five  minutes  resulted  in  an  87  per  cent 
retention  of  the  orijinal  ascorbic  acid  content  of  tomatoes. 
Holding  oooked  tomatoes  on  the  steam  table  for  15  minutes 
caused  no  further  loss  in  their  ascorbic  acid  values. 

Shredded  cabbage  held  at  room  temperature  for  one  hour 
retained,  in  most  of  the  samples  studied,  from  94  to  100  per 
cent  of  its  original  ascorblo  acid  content.  Cabbage  steamed 
for  seven  minutes  showed  79  to  88  per  cent  retentions  of  as- 
corbic acid.  Holding  cooked  cabbage  on  the  steam  table  for 
15  minutes  caused  a  slight  decrease  in  its  ascorbic  acid  value. 

The  retention  of  the  ascorbic  acid  in  potatoes  during 
oooking  was  about  86  per  cent.  Mashed  potatoes  showed  a  55 
per  cent  retention  of  their  original  ascorbic  acid  oontent. 
Holding  masliod  potatoes  on  the  back  of  the  stove  for  45  min- 
utes caused  a  considerable  decrease. 

Haw  spinach  held  on  tho  steam  table  for  15  minutes  gave 
an  ascorbic  add  retention  of  82  per  cent.  Cut  spinach  held 
at  room  temperature  lost  its  ascorbic  acid  rapidly. 


45 


The  data  indicated  that  during  June  and  July  of  1945  the 
ranges  of  asoorblo  aold  values  In  100-gram  amounts  of  some 
vegetables  were  as  follows: 

Tomatoes,  raw 14.9  -  20.2  mg. 

■      steamed 12.8  -  15.7  " 

"      held  on  steam  table  15  minutes  .  11.7  -  17.9  " 

Cabbage,  raw 55.2  -  54.2 

"      steamed. 34.4  -  39.0  " 

"      held  on  steam  table  15  minutes  .  33.0  -  30.1  " 

Potatoes,  raw 2P.3  -  30.2  " 

mashed 17.7  -  21.7  ■ 

"        "   held  on  stove  45  minutes.  .  13.2  -  17.1  " 

Spinach,  raw 10.9  -  18.7  " 

n     held  on  steam  table  15  minutes.  .   8.0  -  14.4  " 
"      "  at  room  temperature  60  minutes  8.5  -  12.6  " 
The  findings  in  this  study  showed  that  commendable  proce- 
dures were  used  in  the  preparation  and  serving  of  these  vege- 
tables at  the  college  cafeteria. 


46 


ACKNOWLEDGMENT 

Sincere  appreciation  is  hereby  expressed  to  Reverend 
Mother  Thomas  whoso  encouragement  prompted  the  undertaking 
of  this  work  and  to  Rovorond  Mother  Cecilia  and  the  Ursullne 
Sisters  of  Paola,  Kansas,  who  made  its  completion  possible. 

Deep  gratitude  is  also  due  to  Dr.  Leah  Asoham  whose 
direction  and  guidance  have  been  Invaluable  and  to  Miss  Mary 
Smull  for  her  gracious  oooperation  in  the  cafeteria  project. 


47 


LITERAT'If.E  CITED 


Bessey,  0.  A. 

Vitamin  C.   In:  The  Vitamins.   Chicago.  Amer.  Ked.  Assoc. 
637  p.  1939. 

Bessey,  0.  A.  and  C.  0.  King. 

The  distribution  of  vitamin  C  In  plant  and  animal  tissue 

and  its  determination.   Jour.  Biol.  Chem.   103:687-698.   1933. 

Bray,  H.  G.  and  W.  V.  Thorpe. 

Sampling  of  cooked  cabbage  in  nutrition  surveys.  Nature. 
154:638.  Nov.  1944. 

Brown,  A.  P.  and  F,  Moser. 

Vitamin  C  content  of  tomatoes.   Pood  Res.   6:45-55.   1941. 

Burrell,  R.  C.,  H.  D.  Brown,  and  V.  R.  Ebrlght. 

Ascorbic  acid  content  of  cabbage  as  influenced  by  variety, 
season,  and  soil  fertility.  Pood  Res.   5:247-252.  1940. 

Currence,  T.  II. 

Comparison  of  tomato  varieties  for  vitamin  C  content. 
Amer.  Soc.  Hort.  Scl.  Proc.   37:901-904.   1940. 

Curlar,  K.  L. ,  J.  B.  Jones,  K.  W.  Harris,  and  P.  Penton. 

Ascorbic  acid,  thiamin,  and  riboflavin  retention  in  fresh 
spinach  In  institution  food  service.  Jour.  Amer.  Dletet. 
Assoc.  20:757-760.  Dec.  1944. 

Daum,  K. ,  M.  Alnione,  and  S.  Hollister. 

Ascorbic  acid  in  institutional  food.  Jour.  Amer.  Dietet. 
Assoc.   19:593-595.   1943. 

Dove,  W.  P.,  E.  P.  Murphy,  and  R.  V.  Akeley. 

Varietal  differences  and  inheritance  of  vitamins  C  and  A 
in  potatoes.  Genetics.  28:72.   1943. 

Dunker,  C.  and  C.  Fellers. 

Vitamin  C  content  of  spinach.  Amer.  Soc.  Hort.  Scl.  Proc. 
36:500-504.   1938. 

Esselen,  V«  B.,  M.  E.  Lyons,  and  C.  P..  Fellers. 

The  composition  and  nutritive  value  of  potatoes  with  special 
emphasis  on  vitamin  C.  Mas.  Agr.  Expt.  Sta.  Bui,   390. 
1942. 

Gleim,  E.,  M.  Albury,  K.  Vlsnyei,  J.  R.  McCartney,  and  P.  Fenton. 
Th9  effect  of  quantity  preparation  procedures  on  vitamin  re- 
tention:  canned  tomatoes.   Jour.  Amer.  Dletet.  Assoc. 
22:29-31.   Jan.  1946. 


48 


Gould,  S,,  D.  K.  Tressler,  and  C.  G.  King. 

Vitamin  C  content  of  vegetables.  V.  Cabbage.  Pood  Res. 
1:427-433.   1956. 

Halllday,  E.f  and  I.  Noble. 

Recent  research  In  foods.   Jour.  Home  Econ.   20:15-21.   1936. 

Hallswork,  E.  0.  and  V.  M.  Lewis. 

Vurlation  of  ascorbic  acid  in  tomatoes.  Nature.   154:431-432. 
1944. 

Hamner,  K.  C.,  l.  Bernstein,  and  L.  A.  Maynard. 

The  effects  of  light  intensity,  day  length,  temperature,  and 
other  environmental  factors  on  ascorbic  acid  content  of  toma- 
toes.  Jour.  Nutr.  29:85-97.  Feb.  1945. 

Higglns,  Miriam  JSason. 

The  retention  of  ascorbic  acid  in  institution  and  in  home- 
cooked  vegetables.  Unpublished  thesis.  Univ.  of  Chicairo. 
46  p.   1342.  " 

Hlnaon,  W.  P.,  k.  k.  Brush,  and  E.  G.  Halllday. 

The  nutritive  value  of  canned  foods:   VI.  Effect  of  large 
scale  preparation  for  serving  on  the  uscorbio  acid,  thiamin, 
riboflavin  content  of  commercially-canned  vegetables.   Jour. 
Amer.  Dietet.  Assoc.   20:752-760.  Dec.  1944. 

Ijdo,  J.  B.  h. 

Vitamin  C  content  of  different  species  of  potatoes.  Nutr. 
Abs.  and  Rev.  7:612.   1937. 

Ireeon,  M.  0.  and  M.  S.  Eheart. 

Ascorbic  acid  losses  in  cooked  vegetables.  Jour.  Home  Econ. 
36:160-155.   1944 

Isgur,  B.  and  C.  Fellers. 

A  preliminary  study  of  the  relationship  between  vitamin  C 
content  and  increased  growth  resulting  frca  fertilizer 
applications.  U.  S.  D.  A.  Expt.  Sta.  Record.  78:483. 
1939. 

Jenkins,  Q.  N. 

Ascorbic  acid  in  mashed  potatoes.  Nature.  151:473.   1943. 

Julen,  C. 

The  potato  as  a  source  of  vitamin  C.  Nutr.  Abs.  and  Rev. 
21C4.   Jan.  1944. 

Kahn,  R.  K.  and  E.  G.  Halllday. 

Asoc:bic  acid  content  of  white  potatoes  as  affected  by 
cooking  and  standing  on  the  steam  table.   Jour-.  Amer.  Dietet. 
Assoc.  20:220.  April  1944. 


49 


Lsmpitt,  L.  H.,  L.  C.  Baker,  and  T.  L.  Parkinson. 

Disappearance  of  the  ascorbic  acid  In  raw  cabbage  after 
mlnolng  or  chopping.  Nature.   149:697-698.  1942. 

Leichsenring,  J. 

Factors  affecting  the  nutritive  value  of  potatoes.   Progress 
Note,  National  Cooperative  Project,  North  Central  Region. 
Minn.  Agr.  Expt.  Sta.   1944. 

Hack,  G.  L.  and  D.  K.  Tressler. 

Vitamin  C  in  vegetables.  VI.  A  critical  investigation  of 
Tillman's  method  for  the  determination  of  ascorbic  acid. 
Jour.  Biol.  Chem.  118s735-742.  1937. 

Mayfield,  H.  L.  and  J.  E.  Richardson. 

The  effect  of  winter  storage  on  the  vitamin  content  of 
cabbage  and  onions.  Mont.  Agr.  Expt.  Sta.  Bui,  379. 
1940. 

McCay,  C.  M.,  M,  Pijoan,  and  H.  R.  Taubken. 

Ascorbic  acid  losses  in  mincing  fresh  vegetables.  Science. 
99:454-455.   June  2,  1944. 

Murphy,  E.  P. 

The  ascorbic  acid  content  of  different  varieties  of  Maine- 
grown  tomatoes  and  cabbage  as  influenced  by  locality, 
season,  and  stage  of  maturity.   Jour.  Agr.  Res.  64:483-503. 
1942. 

Noble,  I.  and  E.  Waddell. 

The  effects  of  different  methods  of  cooking  on  the  ascor- 
bic acid  content  of  cabbage.  Pood  Res.  10:246-254. 
Hoy- June  1945 . 

Noble,  I.  and  E.  Waddell. 

The  retention  of  ascorbic  acid  In  cabbage  during  cooking 
by  different  methods.   Progress  Notes,  National  Cooperative 
Project,  Conservation  of  the  Nutritive  Value  of  Poods. 
Paper  No.  546  misc.  series,  Minn.  Agr.  Expt.  Sta.   1946. 

Phillips,  M.,  N.  Dickerson,  and  P.  Penton. 

The  ascorbic  acid,  thiamin,  and  riboflavin  retention  in 
fresh  market,  home  frozen,  and  commercially  dehydrated 
spinach,  cooked  by  several  methods.   Progress  Notes, 
National  Cooperative  Project,  Conservation  of  the  Nutri- 
tive Value  of  Poods.  N.  X.  Agr.  Expt.  Sta.  (Date  was  not 
given) 

Platenius,  H.  and  J.  Jones. 

The  effect  of  modified  atmosphere  storage  on  the  ascorbic 
acid  content  of  some  vegetables.  Pood  Res.   9:378-385. 
1944. 


50 


Procter,  B.  and  D.  Oreenlle. 

The  determination  of  optimum  conditions  for  domestic 
refrigeration  of  foods.  Pood  Res.  3:199-203.  1938. 

Fyke,  Magnus. 

The  effect  of  shredding  and  grating  on  the  vitamin  C 
content  of  raw  vegetables.  Nature.  149-49S.  Hay  1942. 


Qulnn,  P.  V.,  F.  I.  Sooular,  and  M.  L.  Johnson. 
The  ascorbic  acid  content  of  oabbage  salads. 
11:163-168.  Karon-April  194C. 


Pood  Hes. 


Rangauathan,  S. 

The  vitamin  C  content  of  some  Indian  foodstuffs. 
U.  a«  D.  A.  Sxpt.  St.  Pecord.  74:886-887.  1936. 

Reynard,  0.  B.  and  H.  S.  Kanapaux. 

The  ascorbic  acid  content  of  aorao  tonuto  varieties  and 
species.  Aiaor.  Sco.  Uort.  Sol.  i>roo.  41:250-300.  1942. 

Rlchui'dson,  J.  E.  and  H.  L.  Ma/field. 

Conserving  vitamin  C  in  potato  cookery.  Mont.  Agr.  Expt. 
3tu.  War.  Clrc.  I.  1943. 

Rolf,  i.  A. 

The  effect  of  cooking  end  storage  on  the  ascorbic  acid 
content  of  potatoes.  U.  S.  D.  A.  Jour.  Agr.  Res.  61:381- 
395.  1940. 

Sarett,  II.  F.,  M.  J.  Bennett,  T.  R.  Riggs,  and  V.  H.  Cheldelin. 
Thiamine,  riboflavin,  nicotinic  add,  pantothenic  acid  and 
ascorbic  uoid  content  of  restaurant  foods.  Jour.  Nutr. 
31:755-763.  June  1946. 


Sheets,  0.,  0.  Leonard,  and  M.  Gleger. 

Distribution  of  minerals  and  vitamins  In  different  parts 
of  leafy  vegetables.  Pood  Res.  6:553-569.  1941. 


Sherman,  H.  C. 

Chemistry  of  Pood  and  Nutrition. 
Macmlllan.   675  p.  1946. 


7th  ed.  Hew  York. 


Slepykh,  D.  A, 

Vitamin  C  in  spinach. 


Chera.  Abs.  4111.  1940. 


Somers,  Q.  P.,  K.  C.  Ilamner,  and  W.  L.  Nelson. 

Pield  illumination  and  commercial  handling  as  faotors  In 
determining  the  ascorbic  acid  content  of  tomatoes  received 
at  a  oannery.  Jour.  "utr.  30:425-433.  Dec.  1945. 


51 


Streightoff,  P.,  H.  E.  Munaell,  Ben-Dor  Ean-Aml,  It.  L.  Orr, 
R.  Cailleau,  M.  H.  Leonard,  S.  R.  Ezekiel,  R.  Kornblum, 
and  P.  G.  Koch.  The  effect  of  large-scale  methods  of 
preparation  on  vitamin  content  of  food:   I.  Potatoes. 
Jour.  Amer.  Dletet.  Assoc.   22:117-127.   Feb.  1946. 

Tressler,  D.  K.,  G.  L.  Mack,  and  C.  0.  King. 

Factore  influencing  the  vitamin  C  content  of  vegetables. 
A"i«r.  Jour.  Pub.  Health.   26:905-809.   1936. 


Tresaler,  D.  K. ,  G.  L.  Mack,  and  0.  G.  King. 

Vitamin  C  content  of  vegetables.   I.  Spinach. 
1:3-7.   1936. 


Pood  Pes. 


Van  Duyne,  P.  0.,  J.  T.  Chase,  and  J.  I.  Simpson. 

The  effect  of  various  home  practices  on  the  ascorbic  acid 
content  of  cabbage.   Progress  Notes,  National  Cooperative 
Project,  Conservation  of  the  Nutritive  Value  of  Poods. 
Dept.  of  Hone  Econ.  111.  Agri.  Expt.  Sta.   1943. 


Vitamin  C  in  potatoes. 
Wyo.  Agr.  Expt.  Sta. 


Ann.  Rpt.   51:21.   1940-1941. 


Wellington,  H.,  and  D.  K.  Tressler. 

Vltanin  C  content  of  vegetables.   IX.  Influence  of  method 
of  cooking  on  vitamin  C  content  of  cabbage.  Pood  Res. 
3:311-316.   1938. 

Wheeler,  K.  and  D.  K.  Tressler. 

Vitamin  C  content  of  vegetables.  XII.  Broccoli,  cauli- 
flower, endive,  cantaloup,  parsnips,  New  Zealand  spinach, 
kohlrabi,  lettuce  and  kale.  Pood  Res.   4:593-603.   1939. 


Zepplin,  M.  and  C.  Elvehjem. 

The  affect  of  refrigeration  on  retention  of  ascorbic  acid 
in  vegetables.  Pood  Ren.  9:100-111.  1944. 


53 

-s 

c  o 

O       O       OOOO       OOO       IO  CO 

OH 

•          t         ••••         •••         •• 

043 

H       <0       INH-S1'*       t-WtO       Ot- 

c 

co     co     f-  to  en  o     ococo     coco 

t.  e 

H       H 

©  4^ 

• 

04    O 

►> 

(C 

0 
•a 

•  •    »• 

• 

a 

WIO                                      10               wo* 

I 

• 

•  •                                 •              •  0  • 

OJ 

OH                                             ■#                  0JH01 

a 

• 

I 

5 

43 

• 

f. 

WHCMiot-iPHca      o>     mcjtoiooicjococ-CM'* 

1 

1 

•    •••••••          •         ••••••«*••• 

■ 

o 

COtO  tO  CO  >  to  C- V        10       01  O  t>  0)  IO  t- tft  *?  IO  M1  if 

0 

0> 

3 

I 

HHHHHHHH       H       H       HHrirtrtrlrtHri 

H 

;-: 

•d 
0 

C 

43 

H 

■a 

H 

•  • 

a 
0 

■ 

O 

43 

2 

i 

CM  IO  «0  CO  CO  tO  01  (0       O       lOrlK)  N  w  i«  to  O  1>  t>  01 

0 

•    •••••••          •         ••••••••••• 

43 

a 

o 

OlO^COCOIVOlO        "J"       10  O  J}  O  O  N  in  tt  CV1  10  C- 

0 

1 

H 

■ 

01HHHHHCMH       H       HrlHNCIOlriHNHH 

3 

i 

1 

5 

1     1     1     1     1     1     1     1          1          1    1     1     1     1    1     1     1     1     1     1 

•0 
0 

m 

0 

u 

o 

M 

HCOOlCOI'CnOTO        10       OlOl-tflflOllOr-OlOlOC" 

a 

■d 

n 

•    ••*••••         •         ••••••••••« 

8 

=3 

tOlO'^t-lOlO'!"*       10       HOtOtOOJ^'^tO'J'CMH 
H  H  H  H  H  H  H  i-l       H       >-i       H  i-t       HHHHHH 

| 

a 

S 

o 

> 

K 

o 

■ 

0 

1 

•a 

••  •• 

43 

s 

a 

u  o 

OH 

0 

1 

c 

•*  10  *  •*  ■*  O  0)  10       (0       tO  10  10  tO  O  O  «0  10  o  o  o 

K 

o  i 

HOI                                                                       r-it-t 

43 

a 

SB  a 

• 

I 

y 

■■;  •            • 

43 

0 

••  •• 

•a c           c 

c 

m 

0 

^          3 

0 
0 

c 

H 

o   ©       CM                  10                        3 

C 

&■ 

■a 

43 

§ 

■0       H  H  T3  C4                  10                        • 

H 

a 

O         O   O   O                                                      41 
0    •  O  O  £,-0                  "O                        • 
3  c  P4  P4  3  o               o 

0 

0 

a 

| 

o 

"ii 

4J   B             43  d  O  O        eS                        O 

0 

•o 

o 

H 

H 

a       •   nflfli)      ,a 

O 

| 

| 

o  c  c                                     •  •  • 

I 

a 

0 

»HH"rJ     »    »                       »                     C    G   tl 

*H 

•        SB    •    •                    •                  HHH 

ctj        a  c           c           Bee 

O 

o 

4* 

■ 

H 

cu 

H    »n.ot»)n                        H 

B^HHBB              B             lOioo 

1 

| 

H 

K 

O 

o 

o  •atj'ooo             o             tstj 

J3 

0 

w 

*      ogvoi             to              1 1 J 

43 

1 

•< 

a 

flflStiffl             -a              3  §  .0 

JOOOOO       HHOOHH                  H                   O   O  a) 

at  xs  -a  t)  t3  'd      0B434300              e              434343 

■ 
0 

• 

«                                  C        lOMKK                  W                  03  CO 

•d 

f-t 

•*  ** 

0 

0 

• 

o>  "J1  o>  01  vo  0     01      •»  •")•     o>  w  to     ooim     o 

n 

I 

H 

■p 

H  H  H0I01H       H       HH       H  N  01       H  04  01       H 

^) 

•2 

a 

^^■O^On^^^v.^.        ^^        ^^v^^,        *\"S"S."^fc        ^N^OV*        *"N* 

I 

a 

to  to  to  to  to  t»     to     toto     tototo     to  0  to      e- 

( 

IH 

54 

ft 

O-H 

04J 

fl 

"COO-fO 

0>HO          to      •*      w 
c-  co©         to      e-     C9 

k  • 

o  d  o  oo 

»+> 

H 

Ph    :> 

• 

PI 

& 

M  .. 

■§ 

o 

O0>                      £-H 

to                        to 

i 

• 

t    •                        •    • 

•                         • 

CO 

qjio               o-v 

H                                  H 

•  •  •• 

■ 

i 

t-s-i-noto:oio«ococo*a,c\jtn 

m  to  o         t>     o     h 

5 
** 

• 

c 

•  ••••••»••••• 

•    •    •              •         •         • 

c 

■ 

8 

1 

I00t>0lf-r«t0r0  tO  tft^r-tO 

HOC            ■*       •0'       10 

■>j'  to  to        to     to     to 

0 

"* 

o 

10  tT  10  n  -5'  -f  ».'•  10  IO  "J>  x)"  rfi  rfi 

0) 

H 

1 

•a 

rH 

4) 

N 

| 

ij 

•  < 

• 

•1 

c) 

e 

■ 

U 

l0^-Hc^o^D(^^c»(0•sr"ll<O'!!• 

C~  COO             10       CO       H 

I 

•  t*#t»«««*«»t 

•    ■    •             *         •         • 

M 

O 

to.Hcofci'W^totooinosc'- 
»  (0  10  til  *3>  %"  H  10  to  «e»  v  -t-a> 

cj  o  a         to     to      eg 

"3"  tO  SO            tO       tO       10 

■ 

t> 

•.  1 

■ 

S 

i 

i 

1  1  1  1  1  1  t  1   •  1   •  1  1 

til          1       1       1 

•9 
0 

O 

3 

• 

§ 

0 

i 

01HtQr-l'«J<C»CMCMtO<-l*i,-<l,C<l 

t-  £»••#            O       10       O 

0, 

"0 

W 

•    ••••••»•»••« 

•    •    •              •         •         • 

o 

'1 

ujO(OH<oc-iotot.oiniooio 
totoioin'«"toto«o«0'<"j<'*,(0 

Of-"*            ■«<       to       to 
■"J1  toto         to      to      to 

I 

1 

1 

§ 

> 

K 

o 

ri 

5 

1 

a 

OH 

lOiOtOtOtOOtOtOtOtOtOOCU 

totoo        to     to     o 

o 

k 

s> 

r-ttfS                        HOI 

H                         H 

I 

jl 

*> 

u 

e 

M  »» 

•    •         •               •    • 

1 

u 

-•   •• 

•    •   • 

r.  c     a        a  a 

9 

o 
*> 

• 

■  ad 

•H  «-t         art               H  «-t 

0  G       fi           SB 
•      © 

§ 
o 

i 

H 

moo        in 

t>  C-   Ct-H       t- to 

1 

& 

•d  tl  E"d  a!      -a      0 

•n 

*J 

$ 

•o                        *«o         * 

<H 

ci 

1 

fl?    ffl            O  4-1              'J     ©              • 

p  fl e-  §         Ei-I'dC: 
«  d      3  E      Sjoh-h 
©  o-ci  o  u       omefl 

O 

0 

m 

•a                       *c*  *d  "d         *d 

I 

i 

■O                                  HHH            «-< 

Vi 

fl  jq  X5          X! 

o 

TJ 

O 

4>43    S4l    H          O  +J  C3 

v4 

«-t 

o«e;«i>      a         to 

A 

1 

c 

IS                                    *    »    •*              » 

I     B          |   .h 

| 

1 

0 

•d  "0  t3            t3 

O 

•H 

[>,                                     ©   ©   ©               © 

•   •  4)   •  r:        •  ©  -h  <a 

I 

■ 

♦> 

rjOOOOO       TJ  t>  •O  O  Ot3 

CCaBO       C+>Brt 

Wl*4         art                 «H    «          X> 

a 

•rl 

A 

o 

f> 

«-f 

•                         i  »  ■          e 

BE»fi'0      e     r-oi 

I 
1 

1 

I 

2                £££      I 

•        -o    f-t  •     a     *> 

flmo  tin  n  co  St) 

5 

o 

•> 

«h                            n  «  a           •  H  *«  to  tj  a*1  .rt  -h  to       OS 

*> 

1 

5 

t)  T)  OT)"J       ■OHoi© 

< 

a 

*                             •»  »  *           * 

a 

5                                Kftft             SOHriljrilJlllHJBP 
a                            ti  at  al           <io«i£tdr4(£4>ii 

0 

• 

a:                        in «  k         « 

ra  W  cO  K          tct      to 

•o 

0) 

••  •• 

I 

0 

• 

tO  CO  H  «>  O  tO       to  H  CD  O  tO 

a  o  to  ca         o     to 

s 

1-1 

■u 

rlHM                  HHCM 

HM       i-l            OJ 

A 

.g 

•S 

s^_^s^^x^s^s.N,*v     ^O^O^O^s.^, 

I 

6-' 

O 

to  to  *o  <o  to  r>      to  to  to  to  c- 

to  to  c-  to          to      C- 

• 

Ml 

..,.. 

o 

ca 

0> 

©■H 

• 

• 

• 

S<-p-p 

8 

•o 

§ 

-W    (4 

• 

01 

C<- 

<• 

c» 

• 

• 

• 

• 

4* 

• 

.H 

a 

o 

4 

01 

•• 

10 

•* 

H 

I 

§ 

• 

• 

• 

3 

• 

# 

Q 

c- 

o 

b 

• 

J 

■H 

l-i 

■8 

8 

>-< 

1 

1 

1 

8 

01 

t 

10 

1 

1 

• 
■ 
O 

1 

| 

l 

• 

1 

> 

10 

o 

10 

1 

■0 

» 

to 

• 

t> 

• 
01 

• 

o 

g 

o 

o 

t- 

■ 

o 

t- 

.H 

d 

H 

H 

H 

a 

a 

o 

1 

5 

1 

a 

8 

E 

o 

O  5 

> 

CO 

g 

8 

s 

H 

m 

o 

;-,  4»«H 

■p 

0 

o 

G  O-P 

I 

1 

1 

■•-.  k 

»»    ••   •• 

a 

• 

• 

I-l 

10 

1" 

to 

H 

0 

• 

• 

• 

1 

• 

| 

• 

to 

to 

CI 

H 

H 

•0 

■ 

5 

•o 

.... 

js 

-:- 

" "  i 

to 

• 

• 

1 

01 

• 

o 

• 

• 

O 

• 

• 

a 

I 

o 
o 

i 

1 

% 

8 

■ 

g 

S 

■H 

2 

H 

• 

■a 
§ 

g 

"* 

tH 

10 

ca 

CO 

H 

2* 

rH 

p 

1 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

h 

0 

1 

to 

01 

■ 

01 

§ 

1 

H 

01 

fi 

0 

it 

M 

1 

1 

1 

i 

1 

I 

1 

1 

1 

cs 

1 

« 

n 

c- 

a 

to 

■ 

O 

J> 

■ 

■P 

• 

• 

■ 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

•p 
a 

•* 

■ 

a 

CD 

oi 

& 

K 

a 

0 

o 

1  » 

a 

8 

O  3iH 

■*- 

V 

-.' 

<* 

a 

o 

o 

Q 

o 

H 

H 

H 

I-l 

H 

I 

t 

*"   *"  " * 

1 

o 

■a 
o 

4 

% 

•p 

i 

■a 

•p 

41 

« 

•a 

ri 

w 

p 

& 

s 

O  O 

3 

8 

S 

3 
o 

p 
o 

•-1 

lai 

3 

fit 

+>& 

•* 

u 

* 

•. 

I 

o  H 

• 

a 

■a 

o 

*a 

»~J 

a 

lOiJ  _ 

■ 

~!  1 

o 

•a 

1 

1 

1 

10  .3 

•a  -a 

1 

■ 

a 

1 

ft 

ft 

0 

3 

.• 

8 

1 

» 

I 

o 

■ 

* 

0 

o 

d  q  o 

«o 

1 

o 
*> 

■a 

| 

g 

5 

•a 

0  1  ■ 

1 

1 

w 

a 

IS 

w 

0} 

1 

■p 

£ 

a 

a 

a 

s 

O 

H 

s 

s 

^ 

> 

\ 

% 

Si 

i 

c» 

c- 

c- 

c- 

c- 

1> 

56 

• 

1 

43  c 

1 

a  o 

5 

©•H 

ft 

°S 

3 

01 

t- 

*> 

u  e 

1 

O  43 

o.  e 

■o 

« 

• 

1 

••    ••    •• 

i 

• 

(M 

•»■ 

o 

o 

v 

d 

• 

• 

• 

« 

1 

• 

H 

01 

H 

H 

1 

• 

a 

! 

1 

o 

§ 

a 

• 

o 

■ 

•0 

• 

CO 

• 

2 

P 

s 

o 

«-4 

1 

10 

1-4 

9 

a 

o 

m 

n 

•• 

• 

a 

•H 

o 

• 

1 

1 
o 

(O 

t- 

•i 

■ 

e 
•p 

vH 

■ 

• 

• 

• 

• 

43 

1 

XI 

I 

■ 

H 

CO 
H 

9 

■ 
I 

0 

■o 

I 

i 

1 

1 

1 

H 

a 

1 

3 

1 

CO 

• 

0> 

• 

a 

• 

• 

ft 

• 

C3 

o 

to 

CO 

1 

•g 

i 

t-4 

a 
K 

•«  «»  •* 

a 

M 

m 

1 

o. 

u  © 

43 

■ 

O  H 

ft 

O 

o 

o 

o 

<-, 

5 

0  I 

H 

H 

H 

H 

O 

E 

S3   « 

43 

a 

1 

a 

43 

i 

• 

o 

c 

43  lO 

! 

§ 

9  *j 

to  J 

o 

i 

COT 

43 

43H 

■0 

■a  o 

•o 

1 

■ 

H    • 

H  h 

«4 

O  C 

M 

S| 

©  o 

o 

o»< 

«-. 

fl 

J5  ft 

1 

o 

o 

1 

■a  o 

0 

* 

«  o 

o 

1$ 

§ 

3 

8 

S3 

3* 

»4 

d*> 

•1 

* 

O 

o 

°§ 

i 

« 

n 

■a 

• 

o 

o  u 

o. 

I 

■ 

»H 

»o 

1 

<H   • 

M 

J3 

■0 

■0  .£> 

■d  »< 

a 

•°  ft 

i 

a 

0 

o  a 

« 

a 

h  e 

o 

I 

5 

At  43 

A  43 

0  o 

•> 

1 

a 

a  ._ 

a  a 

■ 

o*> 

e 

i 

a 

a 

1 

X! 

3 

o 

1 

\i 

43 

•t 

« 

•  43 

P 

a 

• 

1 

I 

■ 

S 

* 

■ 

« 

« 

m 

•0 

• 
a 

i 

••  ••   •• 

• 
m 
a 

Q 

1 

5 

1 
* 

