Google 


This  is  a  digital  copy  of  a  book  lhal  w;ls  preserved  for  general  ions  on  library  shelves  before  il  was  carefully  scanned  by  Google  as  pari  of  a  project 

to  make  the  world's  books  discoverable  online. 

Il  has  survived  long  enough  for  the  copyright  to  expire  and  the  book  to  enter  the  public  domain.  A  public  domain  book  is  one  thai  was  never  subject 

to  copy  right  or  whose  legal  copyright  term  has  expired.  Whether  a  book  is  in  the  public  domain  may  vary  country  to  country.  Public  domain  books 

are  our  gateways  to  the  past,  representing  a  wealth  of  history,  culture  and  knowledge  that's  often  dillicull  lo  discover. 

Marks,  notations  and  other  marginalia  present  in  the  original  volume  will  appear  in  this  file  -  a  reminder  of  this  book's  long  journey  from  the 

publisher  lo  a  library  and  linally  lo  you. 

Usage  guidelines 

Google  is  proud  lo  partner  with  libraries  lo  digili/e  public  domain  materials  and  make  them  widely  accessible.  Public  domain  books  belong  to  the 
public  and  we  are  merely  their  custodians.  Nevertheless,  this  work  is  expensive,  so  in  order  lo  keep  providing  this  resource,  we  have  taken  steps  to 
prevent  abuse  by  commercial  panics,  including  placing  Icchnical  restrictions  on  automated  querying. 
We  also  ask  that  you: 

+  Make  n  on -commercial  use  of  the  files  We  designed  Google  Book  Search  for  use  by  individuals,  and  we  request  thai  you  use  these  files  for 
personal,  non -commercial  purposes. 

+  Refrain  from  automated  querying  Do  not  send  automated  queries  of  any  sort  lo  Google's  system:  If  you  are  conducting  research  on  machine 
translation,  optical  character  recognition  or  other  areas  where  access  to  a  large  amount  of  text  is  helpful,  please  contact  us.  We  encourage  the 
use  of  public  domain  materials  for  these  purposes  and  may  be  able  to  help. 

+  Maintain  attribution  The  Google  "watermark"  you  see  on  each  lile  is  essential  for  informing  people  about  this  project  and  helping  them  find 
additional  materials  through  Google  Book  Search.  Please  do  not  remove  it. 

+  Keep  it  legal  Whatever  your  use.  remember  that  you  are  responsible  for  ensuring  that  what  you  are  doing  is  legal.  Do  not  assume  that  just 
because  we  believe  a  book  is  in  the  public  domain  for  users  in  the  United  States,  that  the  work  is  also  in  the  public  domain  for  users  in  other 

countries.  Whether  a  book  is  slill  in  copyright  varies  from  country  lo  country,  and  we  can'l  offer  guidance  on  whether  any  specific  use  of 
any  specific  book  is  allowed.  Please  do  not  assume  that  a  book's  appearance  in  Google  Book  Search  means  it  can  be  used  in  any  manner 
anywhere  in  the  world.  Copyright  infringement  liability  can  be  quite  severe. 

About  Google  Book  Search 

Google's  mission  is  to  organize  the  world's  information  and  to  make  it  universally  accessible  and  useful.  Google  Book  Search  helps  readers 
discover  the  world's  books  while  helping  authors  and  publishers  reach  new  audiences.  You  can  search  through  I  lie  lull  lexl  of  1 1  us  book  on  I  lie  web 
al|_-.:. :.-.-::  /  /  books  .  qooqle  .  com/| 


I 


A  SELECT  LIBRARY 


OF  THE 


NICENE  AND  POST-NICENE  FATHERS 


OF 


THE  CHRISTIAN  CHURCH. 


EDITED   BY 

PHILIP  SCHAFF,   D.D.,   LL.D., 

PROFESSOR  OP  CHURCH  HISTORY  IN  THE  UNION  THEOLOGICAL  SEMINARY,  NEW  YORK. 

fJST  CONNECTION  WITH  A  NUMBER  OF  PATRISTIC  SCHOLARS  OF  EUROPE  AND  AMERICA. 


VOLUME   XIII. 


SAINT   CHRYSOSTOM: 


HOMILIES  ON   GALATIANS,   EPHESIANS,  PHILIPPIANS,  COLOSSIANS, 
THESSALONIANS,   TIMOTHY,  TITUS,  AND  PHILEMON. 


NEW    YORK: 
THE  CHRISTIAN   LITERATURE   COMPANY. 

1889. 


Copyright,  1889,  by 
THE  CHRISTIAN  LITERATURE  COMPANY. 


CONTENTS. 


FAC« 

ST.   CHRYSOSTOM  AS  A  HOMILIST v-vtt 

By  Rev.  John  A.  Broadus,  D.D. 

HOMILIES    ON   THE    EPISTLES    OF  ST.  PAUL  THE  APOSTLE  TO  THE  GALATIANS  AND 

EPHESIANS  .* I 

The  Oxford  Translations  Revised,  with  Additional  Notes,  by  Rev.  Gross  Alex- 
ander, D.D.,  Professor  New  Testament  Greek,  Vanderbilt  University,  Nash- 
ville, Tenn. 

HOMILIES    ON    THE    EPISTLES    OF    ST.    PAUL    THE    APOSTLE   TO    THE    PHILIPPIANS, 

COLOSSIANS,  AND  THESSALONIANS 173 

'  The   Oxford   Translation    Revised,   with  Additional  Notes,  by  Rev.  John  A. 

Broadus,  D.D.,  President  of  the  Southern  Baptist  Theological  Seminary, 
Louisville,  Ky. 

HOMILIES   ON  THE  EPISTLES  OF  ST.  PAUL   THE   APOSTLE  TO  TIMOTHY,  TITUS,    AND 

PHILEMON 399 

The  Oxford  Translation  Edited,  with  Additional  Notes,  by  Rev.  Philip  Schaff, 
DJ)^  LUD. 


W*. 


!f>5m" 


ST.   CHRYSOSTOM   AS   A    HOMILIST. 

By  the  American  Editor  of  the  Homilies  on  Phiuppians,  Colossians, 

and  thessalonians. 


These  Homilies  are  often  less  complete  in  exposition  than  those  on  earlier  books  of  the  New 
Testament,  and  in  literary  excellence  will  not  compare  with  the  Homilies  on  the  Statues,  and 
many  other  discourses  given  at  Antioch.  But  to  the  student  of  preaching,  they  are  quite  as 
instructive,  if  not  really  more  so.  Here  at  Constantinople  the  great  preacher  was  burdened  with 
administrative  details,  and  harassed  by  Court  intrigues,  so  that  his  sermons  were  often  given  with 
far  less  than  his  earlier  careful  preparation,  and  seem  to  have  been  generally  left  afterwards  to 
the  mercy  of  shorthand  reporters,  and  of  editors  who  sent  them  forth  when  he  was  in  banishment 
or  in  the  grave.  Any  minister  who  has  winced  to  see  an  unwritten  sermon  or  other  address  of 
his  own  in  the  morning  paper,  with  the  accumulated  and  interlaced  mistakes  of  reporter,  com- 
positor, and  proof-corrector,  can  sympathize  with  the  situation.  But  in  fact  the  preacher  thus 
appears  in  undress,  and  his  methods  may  be  in  some  respects  the  subject  of  a  more  profitable 
inspection.  You  see  the  sermon  in  about  as  imperfect,  and  sometimes  distorted,  a  condition  as  it 
is  seen  in  the  actual  delivery  by  many  of  the  congregation.  You  see  the  frequent  questions,  the 
abrupt  turns  of  phrase,  the  multiplied  repetitions,  by  which  a  skilled  and  sympathetic  preacher, 
keenly  watching  his  audience,  strives  to  retain  attention  and  to  insure  a  more  general  comprehen- 
sion.    You  are  drawn  near  to  him,  and  almost  stand  by  his  side. 

John  of  the  Golden  Mouth  is,  upon  the  whole,  our  very  best  example,  —  most  richly  instruc- 
tive and  fruitfully  inspiring,  —  in  respect  of  expository  preaching,  which  is  of  late  beginning  to  be 
more  highly  valued  and  more  frequently  attempted  in  our  country  than  ever  before.  We  have 
many  good  models  in  Scotland,  some  in  England,  and  a  few  at  home.  Nor  should  the  student 
ever  forget  Luther,  or  fail  to  profit  by  the  peculiar  methods  of  some  recent  Germans ;  but  one 
who  is  reasonably  endowed  with  historical  sympathy  can  learn  most  from  Chrysostom.  The 
study  of  an  ancient  preacher  is  in  this  respect  like  the  study  of  the  Greek  and  Latin  classics, 'that 
it  demands  sympathy  with  ideas  and  persons  far  away  from  ourselves,  thus  broadening  the  intel- 
lect, invigorating  the  imagination,  and  deepening  in  us  a  true  feeling  for  all  that  is  human.  One 
who  is  at  first  without  interest  in  Chrysostom,  perhaps  even  repelled  by  the  extravagant  expres- 
sions, the  heaped-up  imagery,  the  frequent  bad  taste  (at  least,  according  to  our  standards) ,  of 
this  eminently  representative  Asiatic  Greek,  is  precisely  the  man  that  ought  to  read  Chrysostom, 
if  he  wishes  to  educate  himself  in  the  broadest  and  highest  sense.  Study  the  great  preacher  till  you 
can  thoroughly  appreciate  and  heartily  enjoy  him.  This  will  be  much  aided,  of  course,  by  reading 
a  biography,  as  that  by  Stephens,  or  the  long  article  in  Smith's  Dictionary  of  Christian  Biography, 
or  the  introductory  biographical  sketch  in  the  ninth  volume  of  this  series.  You  very  soon 
find  that  he  is  profoundly  in  earnest,  and  all  alive.  Christianity  is  with  him  a  living  reality.  He 
dwells  always  in  its  presence  and  companionship.  We  may  discern  what  seem  to  us  grave  errors 
of  doctrinal  opinion,  but  we  feel  the  quickening  pulses  of  genuine  Christian  love  and  zeal.  And 
how  fully  he  sympathizes  with  his  hearers  !     He  thoroughly  knows  them,  ardently  loves  them,  has 


vi  ST.    CHRYSOSTOM    AS  A   HOMILIST. 

a  like  temperament,  shares  not  a  little  in  the  faults  of  his  age  and  his  race,  as  must  always  be  the 
case  with  a  truly  inspiring  orator  or  poet.  Even  when  severely  rebuking,  when  blazing  with 
indignation,  he  never  seems  alien,  never  stands  aloof,  but  throws  himself  among  them,  in  a  very 
transport  of  desire  to  check,  and  rescue,  and  save.  Is  there,  indeed,  any  preacher,  ancient  or 
modern,  who  in  these  respects  equals  John  Chrysostom? 

His  homilies  are  not  directly  a  model  for  us,  as  regards  the  construction  of  discourse.  The 
early  Christians  disliked  to  hear,  or  make,  a  smoothly  symmetrical  and  elegantly  finished  oration 
like  those  of  the  secular  orators.  They  wished  for  familiar  and  free  addresses,  such  as  we  call  a 
prayer- meeting  talk ;  and  this  was  precisely  the  meaning  of  their  words  "  homily  "  and  "  sermon." 
The  preacher  took  up  his  passage  of  Scripture  —  usually  somewhat  extended  —  in  a  familiar  way, 
sentence  by  sentence,  with  explanations  and  remarks,  as  he  saw  occasion ;  sometimes  we  find 
Chrysostom  actually  returning  to  go  over  the  passage  again,  that  it  may  suggest  further  remarks. 
At  length,  he  would  be  apt  to  seize  upon  some  topic  of  doctrine  or  practice  which  the  text  had 
directly  or  remotely  suggested,  and  discuss  that  by  way  of  conclusion,  not  infrequently  wandering 
far  off  into  the  thoughts  which  one  after  another  occurred.  Now,  modern  taste  requires  much 
more  system  and  symmetry  in  building  a  discourse.  The  Schoolmen  taught  their  pupils  to 
analyze  and  arrange,1  and  modern  preaching  has  taken  the  corresponding  form,  for  good  and 
for  ill.  An  expository  sermon  of  to-day  must  be  much  more  systematic  in  its  explanations,  and 
much  more  regular  in  its  entire  construction,  than  those  of  the  ancient  preachers.  Admirable 
models  in  this  direction  are  furnished  in  Scotland.  But  while  conforming  to  modern  taste  as  to 
structure,  one  may  leam  much,  very  much,  from  the  preachers  of  the  early  centuries,  especially 
from  Chrysostom,  in  respect  of  freedom,  versatility,  and  skill  in  practical  application.  The  mod- 
ern careful  preparation  and  orderly  arrangement,  combined  {mutatis  mutandis)  with  the  ancient 
freedom  and  directness,  and  reduced  to  harmony  and  vital  symmetry  by  zealous  practice,  might 
constitute  the  best  type  of  expository  preaching. 

And  it  may  be  repeated  that  Chrysostom  is  not  least  helpful  in  these  expository  talks  on  the 
shorter  epistles  of  Paul.  Though  often  appearing  fragmentary,  they  lay  bare  his  habitual  pro- 
cesses and  reveal  his  most  vigorous  powers,  and  are  not  wanting  in  passages  that  burst  into  pas- 
sion or  shine  in  splendor. 

Their  value  is  increased  rather  than  lessened  for  thoughtful  readers  by  the  restoration  of  the 
true  text.  The  Oxford  translation  of  the  Homilies  on  these  Epistles  was  published  (1843)  before 
the  appearance  of  the  corresponding  volume  of  Field's  critical  edition  of  the  Greek  text  (1855). 
The  translation  was  based,  for  Philippians,  on  the  edition  of  Chrysostom's  Works  by  the  English 
scholar  Savile  (16 12),  with  some  comparison  of  the  Benedictine  edition  by  Montfaucon  (1718), 
and  the  Paris  or  Second  Benedictine  edition  (1834-1839)  ;  and  for  Colossians  and  Thessalonians, 
on  the  Paris  edition,  with  comparison  of  Savile.  There  was  also  occasional  use  of  some  collations 
from  one  MS.  for  Philippians,  and  one  or  two  more  for  Thessalonians.  Field  has  pointed  out 
that  the  Benedictine  and  the  Paris,  and  other  editions,  including  that  of  Migne  (1863),  really 
followed,  with  slight  alteration,  the  text  of  Savile.  But  the  earliest  edition  of  Chrysostom's 
Homilies  on  the  Epistles  of  Paul,  published  at  Verona  in  1529,  presents  a  very  different  text; 
and  Field's  careful  study  of  collations  from  four  MSS.  for  Philippians,  six  for  Colossians,  and  five 
for  Thessalonians,  together  with  the  Catena,  satisfied  him  that  the  Verona  edition  had  in  general 
given  the  true  text,  and  he  has  reproduced  it,  with  such  alterations  as  the  MSS.  generally  agreeing 
with  it  appeared,  in  his  judgment,  to  require.  The  American  editor  was  at  first  inclined  to  think 
that  Field  had  been  unduly  influenced  by  the  Catena,  which  would  naturally  abridge  its  extracts, 
particularly  in  drawing  from  an  author  so  efflorescent  and  repetitious  as  Chrysostom,  and  which 
had  often  appeared  to  do  so  when  he  was  studying  it  throughout  the  Gospel  of  Matthew.  But 
after  going  through  Philippians  with  the  construction  of  a  composite  text,  which  was  felt  to  be 

1  How  this  came  about,  the  editor  has  sought  to  explain  in  his  "  Lectures  on  the  History  of  Preaching"  (New  York,  Armstrong), 
p.  103  f. 


ST.   CHRYSOSTOM   AS  A   HOMILIST.  vii 

inconsistent  and  unsatisfactory,  like  that  of  the  Oxford  translator  and  that  of  Migne,  the  editor 
was  not  far  advanced  in  Colossians  before  he  saw  clearly  that  the  Verona  text  as  rewrought  by 
Field  was,  beyond  question,  generally  correct  and  greatly  to  be  preferred.  Accordingly  the 
whole  of  this  portion,  Philippians  as  well  as  the  rest,  has  been  conformed  to  Field's  text,  except 
in  occasional  passages,  where  Field's  own  MSS.  were  thought  to  indicate  otherwise,  and  these 
have  been  pointed  out  in  the  foot-notes  if  they  possessed  the  least  importance.  The  foot-notes 
also  present  some  few  specimens  of  the  numerous  enlargements  and  explanatory  changes  or 
transitional  additions  by  which  the  altered  text  printed  by  Savile  and  his  followers  sought  to 
piece  out  and  smooth  into  literary  propriety  the  rough,  fragmentary,  and  sometimes  obscure 
expressions  of  the  true  text.1  It  was  only  when  nearly  all  this  work  had  been  done  that  the 
editor  observed  that  some  other  portions  of  the  Oxford  translation  were  originally  based  on  Field's 
text,  which  for  those  portions  had  appeared  in  time  for  the  purpose.  Thus  his  part  of  the  work 
has  in  fact  become  assimilated  to  the  American  edition  for  Matthew,  and  for  Acts  and  Romans. 

The  translation  of  the  Oxford  edition  shows  general  excellence,  and  frequent  felicity  of  English 
expression.  Besides  the  numerous  cases  of  differences  in  text,  the  translation  has  been  altered 
where  the  syntax  seemed  to  be  misunderstood,  where  the  passion  for  variety  of  rendering  (as 
often  in  the  common  or  authorized  English  version  of  the  Bible)  had  obscured  the  verbal  con- 
nection of  passages,  &c.  It  is  possible  that  the  American  editor,  in  his  love  for  Chrysostom's 
freedom  and  downrightness,  has  sometimes  gone  to  the  opposite  extreme  from  that  of  the 
translators  in  England,  and  become  too  baldly  literal. 

The  foot-notes  in  square  brackets  are  from  the  editor.  The  others  are  from  the  Oxford  trans- 
lators, being  retained  except  where  they  were  superseded  by  the  change  of  text  or  of  translation, 
or  for  some  other  reason  appeared  to  be  no  longer  useful.  Their  references  to  other  volumes  of 
the  Oxford  edition  have  been  conformed  in  the  paging*  to  the  American  edition  for  Matthew, 
Acts,  and  Romans,  and  the  Statues ;  elsewhere  the  pages  were  simply  omitted. 

J.  A.  B. 

1  Persons  interested  in  text-criticism  may  care  to  know  that  Field's  volume  for  the  Homilies  on  these  Epistles,  with  a  digest  of 

various  readings,  would  strikingly  illustrate  for  them,  in  different  material,  the  scientific  principles  and  methods  of  Westcott  and  Hort> 

In  the  Homilies  on  Colossians  they  will  find  (out  of  six  MSS.  collated  for  Field,  viz.,  A  B  C  D  E  H),  a  well-marked  and  singularly 

uniform  group  of  three,  viz.,  B  C  H,  presenting  the  peculiarities  of  the  altered  text,  adopted  in  many  passages  by  Savile  and  followers, 

but  in  many  others  not  adopted.    The  "  internal  evidence  of  groups,"  as  described  by  Westcott  and  Hort  in  vol.  ii.,  SchafTs  Companion 

to  the  Bible,  or  Warfield's  Textual  Criticism,  may  be  here  applied  with  great  ease  and  assured  results.    In  Thessalonians  (out  of  five 

MSS.,  B  C  I  K  L)  B  and  C  are  the  same  documents  as  before,  but  C  here  presents  marked  differences  of  text.    B  K,  with  or  without 

one  or  two  other  MSS.,  will  be  found  very  generally  wrong,  with  the  peculiarities  of  the  altered  text.    C  sometimes  joins  them,  but 

oftener  stands  aloof,  frequently  uniting  with  I  or  L  in  giving  the  true  text,  and  sometimes  standing  alone  for  the  right.    In  Philippians 

(out  of  four  MSS.,  C  E  F  G)  C  G  will  quite  frequently  give  the  altered  text,  but  there  is  not  such  uniformity  as  in  the  Homilies  on  the 

other  Epistles.    It  may  be  added  that  (as  Field  also  remarks)  the  alterations  throughout  the  Homilies  on  these  Epistles  show  a  marked 

family  likeness,  and  doubtless  came  from  the  same  early  critical  editor,  who,  however,  altered  much  more  freely  in  some  Homilies  (as  on 

Philippians)  than  in  others  (as  on  a  Thess.).    The  altered  text  sometimes  places  Chrysostom  among  the  supporters  of  a  "Syrian" 

reading  of  the  New  Testament,  where  his  real  text  is  not  so,  but  the  instances  observed  in  these  Homilies  are  not  so  numerous  as  to 

affect  his  general  position.    It  is  to  be  hoped  that  other  MSS.  of  Chrysostom  will  be  collated,  and  more  complete  materials  be  at  hand 

for  future  critics  to  settle  details  now  remaining  uncertain,  and  perhaps  to  throw  light  on  the  origin  of  the  altered  or  Savilian  text;  but 

the  superiority  of  the  Verona  type,  as  given  by  Field,  is  not  at  all  likely  to  be  ever  again  otherwise  than  clear  and  assured. 


THE    COMMENTARY 


AND 


HOMILIES  OF  ST.  JOHN  CHRYSOSTOM, 


ARCHBISHOP  OF  CONSTANTINOPLE, 


OH  THE 


EPISTLES  OF   ST.  PAUL  THE   APOSTLE 


TO  THE 


GALATIANS    AND    EPHESIANS. 

The  Oxford  Translations  Revised,  with  Additional  Notes,  by 
REV.   GROSS    ALEXANDER,    D.D., 

PROFESSOR  OF  NEW  TESTAMENT   GREEK  IN   VANDERBILT    UNIVERSITY,  NASHVILLE,  TENN. 


CONTENTS. 


COMMENTARY  ON  GALATIANS. 

PACK 

Chatter  I.  —  Verse  1-3.  Paul,  an  Apostle,  (not  from  men,  neither  through  man,  but  through  Jesus  Christ 
and  God  the  Father,  who  raised  Him  from  the  dead;  )  and  all  the  brethren  which  are  with  me,  unto  the 
Churches  of  Galatia:  Grace  to  you  and  peace  from  God  the  Father,  and  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ 1 

Chapter  II.  —  Verse  1,  2.  Then  after  the  space  of  fourteen  years,  I  went  up  again  to  Jerusalem  with  Barna- 
bas, taking  Titus  also  with  me.    And  I  went  up  by  revelation 14 

Chapter  III. — Verse  1.    O  foolish  Galatians,  who  did  bewitch  you,  before  whose  eyes  Jesus  Christ  was  openly 

set  forth,  crucified? •  •  •     23 

Chapter  IV. — Verse  1-3.  But  I  say,  that  so  long  as  the  heir  is  a  child,  he  differeth  nothing  from  a  bond- 
servant, though  he  is  lord  of  all;  but  is  under  guardians  and  stewards,  until  the  term  appointed  of  the 
father.     So  we  also  when  we  were  children,  were  held  in  bondage  under  the  rudiments  of  the  world 30 

Chapter  V.  — Verse  1.    With  freedom  did  Christ  set  us  free;  stand  fast  therefore 36 

Chapter  VI.  —  Verse  I.    Brethren,  even  if  a  man  be  overtaken  in  any  trespass 43 


HOMILIES  ON  EPHESIANS. 

The  Argument 49 

Homily  I.  —  Eph.  i.  1,  2.  Paul,  an  Apostle  of  Christ  Jesus  through  the  will  of  God,  to  the  saints  which  are 
at  Ephesus,  and  the  faithful  in  Christ  Jesus.  Grace  to  you,  and  peace,  from  God  our  Father,  and  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ 50 

Homily  II.  —  Eph.  i.  11-14.    In  whom  also  we  were  made  a  heritage,  having  been  foreordained  according  to 

the  purpose  of  Him  who  worketh  all  things  after  the  counsel  of  his  will 55 

Homily  III. —  Eph.  i.  15-20.  For  this  cause  I  also,  having  heard  of  the  faith  in  the  Lord  Jesus,  which  is 
among  you,  and  which  ye  show  toward  all  the  saints,  cease  not  to  give  thanks  for  you,  making  mention  of 
you  in  my  prayers;  that  the  God  of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  the  Father  of  glory,  may  give  unto  you  a  spirit 
of  wisdom  and  revelation  in  the  knowledge  of  Him :  having  the  eyes  of  your  heart  enlightened;  that  ye 
may  know  what  is  the  hope  of  His  calling,  what  the  riches  of  the  glory  of  His  inheritance  in  the  saints, 
and  what  the  exceeding  greatness  of  His  power  to  us-ward  who  believe,  according  to  that  working  of  the 
strength  of  His  might,  which  He  wrought  in  Christ,  when  He  raised  Him  from  the  dead 59 

Homily  IV.  —  Eph.  ii.  1-3.  And  you  did  He  quicken,  when  ye  were  dead  through  your  trespasses  and  sins, 
wherein  aforetime  ye  walked,  according  to  the  course  of  this  world,  according  to  the  prince  of  the  power 
of  the  air,  of  the  spirit  that  now  worketh  in  the  sons  of  disobedience;  among  whom  we  also  all  once 
lived,  in  the  lusts  of  our  flesh,  doing  the  desires  of  the  flesh,  and  of  the  mind;  and  were  by  nature  chil- 
dren of  wrath  even  as  the  rest 65 

Homily  V.  —  Eph.  ii.  11,  12.  Wherefore  remember,  that  aforetime  ye  the  Gentiles  in  the  flesh,  who  are  called 
Uncircumcision  by  that  which  is  called  Circumcision  in  the  flesh  made  by  hands;  that  ye  were  at  that  time 
separate  from  Christ,  alienated  from  the  commonwealth  of  Israel,  and  strangers  from  the  covenants  of  the 
promise,  having  no  hope,  and  without  God  in  the  world 70 

Homily  VI.  —  Eph.  ii.  17-22.  And  He  came  and  preached  peace  to  you  that  were  far  off,  and  peace  to  them 
that  were  nigh,  for  through  Him  we  both  have  our  access  in  one  Spirit  unto  the  Father.  So  then  ye  are 
no  more  strangers  and  sojourners,  but  ye  are  fellow-citizens  with  the  saints,  and  of  the  household  of  God, 
being  built  upon  the  foundation  of  the  Apostles  and  Prophets,  Christ  Jesus  Himself  being  the  chief  corner- 
stone. In  whom  each  several  building,  fitly  framed  together,  groweth  into  a  holy  temple  in  the  Lord.  In 
whom  ye  also  are  builded  together  for  a  habitation  of  God  in  the  Spirit 74 

Homily  VII.  —  Eph.  in.  8-1 1.  Unto  me,  whom  am  less  than  the  least  of  all  saints,  was  this  grace  given,  to 
preach  unto  the  Gentiles  the  unsearchable  riches  of  Christ;  and  to  make  all  men  see  what  is  the  dispensa- 
tion of  the  mystery,  which  from  all  ages  hath  been  hid  in  God,  who  created  all  things :  to  the  intent  that 


xii  CONTENTS. 


EPISTLE  TO  THE  EPHESIANS—  Continued.  FACB 

now  unto  the  principalities  and  the  powers  in  the  heavenly  places  might  be  made  known  through  the 
Church  the  manifold  wisdom  of  God,  according  to  the  eternal  purpose,  which  He  purposed  in  Christ 
Jesus  our  Lord '. 79 

Homily  VIII.  —  Eph.  iv.  1,  2.  I  therefore,  the  prisoner  in  the  Lord,  beseech  you  to  walk  worthily  of  the  call- 
ing wherewith  ye  were  called,  with  all  lowliness  and  meekness 84 

Homily  IX.  —  Eph.  iv.  1-3.  I  therefore,  the  prisoner  in  the  Lord,  beseech  you,  to  walk  worthily  of  the  call- 
ing wherewith  ye  were  called,  with  all  lowliness  and  meekness,  with  long-suffering,  forbearing  one  another 
in  love;  giving  diligence  to  keep  the  unity  of  the  Spirit  in  the  bond  of  peace 94 


PREFACE. 


St.  Chrysostom's  Commentary  on  the  Epistle  to  the  Galatians  is  continuous,  according  to 
chapter  and  verse,  instead  of  being  arranged  in  Homilies,  with  a  moral  or  practical  application 
at  their  close,  as  in  his  exposition  of  other  Epistles.  It  was  written  at  Antioch,  as  Montfaucon 
infers  from  a  reference  which  the  Author,  makes  upon  Chap.  i.f  ver.  16  (p.  io)  to  other  of  his 
writings,  which  certainly  were  written  about  the  same  time  in  that  city.  Vid.  Horn,  de  MutaL 
Nom.>  Tom.  III.,  p.  98,  Ed.  Ben.  The  year  is  uncertain,  but  seems  not  to  have  been  earlier  than 
a.d.  395. 

The  Homilies  on  the  Epistle  to  the  Ephesians  have  been  by  some  critics  assigned  to  the 
Episcopate  at  Constantinople,  in  consequence  of  certain  imperfections  in  their  composition, 
which  seemed  to  argue  absence  of  the  comparative  leisure  which  he  enjoyed  at  Antioch.  There 
is  a  passage  too  in  Homily  XI.,  pp.  231,  232,  which  certainly  is  very  apposite  to  the  Author's 
circumstance  in  the  court  of  Eudoxia.  Yet  there  are  strong  reasons  for  deciding  that  they 
too  were  delivered  at  Antioch.  St  Babylas  and  St.  Julian,  both  saints  at  Antioch,  are  mentioned 
familiarly,  the  former  in  Homily  DC,  p.  205,  the  latter  in  Homily  XXL,  pp.  342,  343.  Monastic 
establishments  in  mountains  in  the  neighborhood-  are  spoken  of  in  Homily  VI.,  p.  165,  and 
XIII.,  p.  248  ;*  and  those  near  Antioch  are  famous  in  St.  Chrysostom's  history.  A  schism  too 
is  alluded  to  in  Homily  XL,  p.  230,  as  existing  in  the  community  he  was  addressing,  and  that 
not  about  a  question  of  doctrine ;  circumstances  which  are  accurately  fulfilled  in  the  contem- 
porary history  of  Antioch,  and  which  are  more  or  less  noticed  in  the  Homilies  on  1  Corinthians, 
which  were  certainly  delivered  at  Antioch.1 

Moreover,  he  makes  mention  of  the  prevalence  of  superstitions,  Gentile  and  Jewish,  among 
the  people  whom  he  was  addressing,  in  Homily  VI.,  fin.,  p.  166,  Homily  XII.,  fin.,  p.  240,  which 
is  a  frequent  ground  of  complaint  in  his  other  writings  against  the  Christians  of  Antioch :  vid. 
in  Gal.  p.  15 ;  in  1  Cor.,  Homily  XIL,  §§  13,  14 ;  in  Col.,  Homily  VIIL,  fin. ;  Contr.Jud.  I., 

PP-  386-388. 

Since  Evagrius,  the  last  Bishop  of  the  Latin  succession  in  the  schism,  died  in  a.d.  392,  these 
Homilies  must  have  been  composed  before  that  date. 

As  to  the  Translations,  the  Editors  have  been  favored  with  the  former  by  a  friend  who  con- 
ceals his  name ;  and  with  the  latter,  by  the  Rev.  William  John  Copeland,  M.A.,  Fellow  of  Trinity 

College,  Oxford. 

J.  H.  NEWMAN. 

1  Vid.  also  XXI.,  p.  338.  *  Vid.  also  Preface  to  Translation  of  Homilies  on  1  Cor.,  p.  xiii. 


COMMENTARY"  OF  ST.  JOHN  CHRYSOSTOM, 


ARCHBISHOP  OF  CONSTANTINOPLE, 


ON   THE 


EPISTLE  OF  ST.  PAUL  THE  APOSTLE 


TO   THE 


GALATIANS. 


CHAPTER    I. 


VERSE  I-3. 


Paul,  an  Apostle,  (not  from  men, 
but  through  Jesus  Christ  and 
raised  Him  from  the  dead ;) 
which  are  with  me,  unto  the 
Grace  to  you  and  peace  from 
our  Lord  Jesus  Christ" 


neither  through  man, 
God  the  Father,  who 
and  all  the  brethren 
Churches  of  Galatia : 
God  the  Father,  and 


The  exordium*  is  full  of  a  vehement  and  lofty 
spirit,  and  not  the  exordium  only,  but  also,  so 
to  speak,  the  whole  Epistle.  For  always  to 
address  one's  disciples  with  mildness,  even  when 
they  need  severity  is  not  the  part  of  a  teacher 
but  it  would  be  the  part  of  a  corrupter  and 
enemy.  Wherefore  our  Lord  too,  though  He 
generally  spoke  gently  to  His  disciples,  here  and 
there  uses  sterner  language,  and  at  one  time 
pronounces  a  blessing,  at  another  a  rebuke. 
Thus,  having  said  to  Peter,  "  Blessed  art  thou, 
Simon  Barjona,"  (Matt,  xvi :  17.)  and  having 
promised  to  lay  the  foundation  of  the  Church 
upon  his  confession,  shortly  afterwards  He  says, 
"  Get  thee  behind  Me,  Satan  :  thou  art  a  stum- 
bling block  unto  Me."  (Matt,  xvi :  23.)  Again, 

1  [Properlv  so-called.  His  other  works  on  the  Scriptures  are  in 
the  Form  of  homilies,  or  expository  sermons,  with  the  exception  of 
his  continuous  commentary  on  the  first  six  chapters  of  Isaiah. 
But  as  Schaffnays  "  his  homilies  are  expository  and  his  commen- 
taries are  homiletical." — G.  A.] 


""The  two  threads  which  run  through  this  Epistle— the  defence 
of  the  Ap>stle's  own  authority,  and  the  maintenance  of  the  doc- 
trine of  grace — are  knotted  together  in  the  opening  salutation.  By 
expanding  his  official  title  into  a  statement  of  his  direct  co.*nmis- 
M'WJ  from  God,  he  meets  the  personal  attack  of  his  enemies  ;  and 
by  dwelling  on  the  work  of  redemption  in  connection  with  the 
name  of  Christ  (v.  4)  he  resists  their  doctrinal  errors." — Light- 
foot.— G.  A.] 


on  another  occasion,  "  Are  ye  also  even  yet 
without. understanding?"  (Matt,  xv :  16.)  And 
what  awe  He  inspired  them  with  appears  from 
John's  saying,  that,  when  they  beheld  Him  con- 
versing with  the  Samaritan  woman,  though  they 
reminded  Him  to  take  food,  no  one  ventured  to 
say,  "  What  seekest  Thou,  or  why  speakest  thou 
with  her?  "  (John  iv:  27.)  Thus  taught,  and 
walking  in  the  steps  of  his  Master,  Paul  hath 
varied  his  discourse  according  to  the  need  of 
his  disciples,  at  one  time  using  knife  and  cau- 
tery, at  another,  applying  mild  remedies.  To 
the  Corinthians  he  says,  "  What  will  ye  ?  shall  I 
come  unto  you  with  a  rod,  or  in  love,  and  in 
a  spirit  of  meekness?"  (I  Cor.  vi :  21.)  but  to 
theGalatians,  "O foolish Galatians.^  (Gal.  iii:i.) 
And  not  once  only,  but  a  second  time,  also  he 
has  employed  this  reproof,  and  towards  the  con- 
clusion he  says  with  a  reproachful  allusion  to 
them,  "  Let  no  man  trouble  me  ;  "  (Gal.  vi:  17). 
but  he  soothes  them  again  with  the  words,  "  My 
little  children,  of  whom  "  I  am  again  in  trav- 
ail:" (Gal.  iv:  19.)  and  so  in  many  other 
instances. 

Now  that  this  Epistle  breathes  an  indignant 
spirit,  is  obvious  to  every  one  even  on  the  first 
perusal ;  but  I  must  explain  the  cause  of  his 
anger  against  the  disciples.  Slight  and  unim- 
portant it  could  not  be,  or  he  would  not  have 
used  such  vehemence.  For  to  be  exasperated 
by   common  matters  is  the  part  of  the  little- 


WORKS  OF  ST.  CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Chapter  L 


minded,  morose,  and  peevish  ;  just  as  it  is  that 
of  the  more  indolent  and  sluggish  to  lose  heart 
in  weighty  ones.  Such  a  one  was  not  Paul. 
What  then  was  the  offence  which  roused  him  ? 
it  was  grave  and  momentous,  one  which  was 
estranging  them  all  from  Christ,  as  he  himself 
says  further  on,  "  Behold,  I  Paul  say  unto  you, 
that  if  ye  receive  circumcision,  Christ  will  pro- 
fit you  nothing;"  (Gal.  v:  2.)  and  again, 
"  Ye  who  would  be  justified  by  the  Law,  ye  are 
fallen  away  from  Grace."  (Gal.  v:  4.)  What 
then  is  this  ?  For  it  must  be  explained  more 
clearly.  Some  of  the  Jews  who  believed,  being 
held  down  by  the  preposessions  of  Judaism, 
and  at  the  same  time  intoxicated  by  vain-glory, 
and  desirous  of  obtaining  for  themselves  the  dig- 
nity of  teachers,  came  to  the  Galatians,  and 
taught  them  that  the  observance  of  circumcis- 
ion, sabbaths,  and  new-moons,  was  necessary, 
and  that  Paul  in  abolishing  these  things  was 
not  to  be  borne.  For,  said  they,  Peter  and 
James  and  John,  the  chiefs  of  the  Apostles  and 
the  companions  of  Christ,  forbade  them  not. 
Now  in  fact  they  did  not  forbid  these  things, 
but  this  was  not  by  way  of  delivering  positive 
doctrine,  but  in  condescension  to  the  weakness 
of  the  Jewish  believers,  which  condescension 
Paul  had  no  need  of  when  preaching  to  the 
Gentiles;  but  when  he  was  in  Judaea,  he  em- 
ployed it  himself1  also.  But  these  deceivers,  by 
withholding  the  causes  both  of  Paul's  condes- 
cension and  that  of  his  brethren,  misled  the 
simpler  ones,  saying  that  he  was  not  to  be  tol- 
erated, for  he  appeared  but  yesterday,  while 
Peter  and  his  colleagues  were  from  the  first, — 
that  he  was  a  disciple  of  the  Apostles,  but  they 
of  Christ, — that  he  was  single,  but  they  were 
many,  and  pillars  of  the  Church.  They  ac- 
cused him  too  of  acting  a  part ;  saying,  that 
this  very  man  who  forbids  circumcision  observes 
the  rite  elsewhere^  and  preaches  one  way  to  you 
and  another  way  to  others. 

Since  Paul  then  saw  the  whole  Galatian 
people  in  a  state  of  excitement,  a  flame  kindled 
against  their  Church,  and  the  edifice  shaken 
and  tottering  to  its  fail,  filled  with  the  mixed 
feelings  of  just  anger  and  despondency,  (which 
he  has  expressed  in  the  words,  "I  could  wish 
to  be  present  with  you  now,  and  to  change  my 
voice," — Gal.  iv :  20.  )he  writes  the  Epistle  as  an 
answer  to  these  charges.  This  is  his  aim  from  the 
very  commencement,  for  the  underminers  of  his 
reputation  had  said,  The  others  were  disciples  of 
Christ  but  this  man  of  the  * '  Apostles. ' '  w here- 
fore  he  begins  thus,  "  Paul,  an  Apostle 
not  from  men,  neither  through  man."  For 
these  deceivers,  as  I  was  saying  before,  had  said 

Mrrated,  for  example,  in  Acts  xxi:  20-26,  which  was,  Baur 
jbingen  critics  to  the  contrary  notwithstanding,  in 
with   Paul's  principle  and  practice,  as  announced  in 


that  this  man  was  the  last  of  all  the  Apostles 
and  was  taught  by  them,  for  Peter,  James,  and 
John,  were  both  first  called,  and  held  a  primacy 
among  the  disciples,  and  had  also  received  their 
doctrines  from  Christ  Himself ;  and  that  it  was 
therefore  fitting  to  obey  them  rather  than  this 
man ;  and  that  they  forbad  not  circumcision 
nor  the  observance  of  the  Law.  By  this  and 
similar  language  and  by  depreciating  Paul,  and 
exalting  the  honor  of  the  other  Apostles, 
though  not  spoken  for  the  sake  of  praising 
them,  but  of  deceiving  the  Galatians,  they  in- 
duced them  to  adhere  unseasonably  to  the  Law. 
Hence  the  propriety  of  his  commencement.  As 
they  disparaged  his  doctrine,  saying  it  came 
from  men,  while  that  of  Peter  came  from  Christ, 
he  immediately  addresses  himself  to  this  point, 
declaring  himself  an  apostle  "not  from  men, 
neither  through  man. ' '  It  was  Ananias  who  bap- 
tized him,  but  it  was  not  he  who  delivered  him 
from  the  way  of  error  and  initiated  him  into 
the  faith;  but  Christ  Himself  sent  from  on 
high  that  wondrous  voice,  whereby  He  inclosed 
him  in  his  net.  For  Peter  and  his  brother,  and 
John  and  his  brother,  He  called  when  walking 
by  the  seaside,  (Matt,  iv  :  18.)  but  Paul  after  His 
ascension  into  heaven.  (Acts,  ix:  3,  4.)  And 
just  as  these  did  not  require  a  second  call,  but 
straightway  left  their  nets  and  all  that  they  had, 
and  followed  Him,  so  this  man  at  his  first  voca- 
tion pressed  vigorously  forward,  waging,  as  soon 
as  he  was  baptized,  an  implacable  war  with  the 
Jews.  In  this  respect  he  chiefly  excelled  the 
other  Apostles,  as  he  says,  "I  labored  more 
abundantly  than  they  all;  "(1  Cor.  xv:  10.)  at  pres- 
ent, however,  he  makes  no  such  claim,  but  is  con- 
tent to  be  placed  on  a  level  with  them.  Indeed 
his  great  object  was,  not  to  establish  any  superi- 
ority for  himself,  but,  to  overthrow  the  founda- 
tion of  their  error.  The  not  being  '  'from  men* ' 
has  reference  to  all  alike  for  the  Gospel's  root 
and  origin  is  divine,  but  the  not  being  "through 
man "  is  peculiar  to  the  Apostles ;  for  He 
called  them  not  by  men's  agency,  but  by  His 
own.2    t 

But  why  does  he  not  speak  of  his  vocation  rather 
than  his  apostolate,  and  say,  "Paul"  called 
"  not  by  man  ?  "  Because  here  lay  the  whole 
question ;  for  they  said  that  the  office  of  a 
teacher  had  been  committed  to  him  by  men, 
namely  by  the  Apostles,  whom  therefore  it  be- 
hooved him  to  obey.  But  that  it  was  not 
entrusted  to  him  by  men,  Luke  declares  in  the 

*  "  Not  from  men  as  an  ultimate,  nor  through  man  as  a  mediate 
authority."— Ellicott    • 

"In  the  first  clause,  'from  men,'  he  distinguishes  himself  from  the 
false  apostles  who  did  not  derive  their  authority  from  God  at  all ; 
in  the  second,  'through  man,'  he  ranks  himself  with  the  twelve  who 
were  .commissioned  directly  from  God.  The  singular  is  used  in 
second  clause,  'through  man, 'because  offices  which  emanate  from  a 
body  of  men  are  conferred  by  their  single  repreientative." — Light- 
foot. 

["  Paul  has  in  second  clause  used  the  singular  because  the  con- 
trast is  'through  Jesus  Christ.'  "—Meyer.— G.  A] 


Chapter  I.] 


COMMENTARY  ON  GALATIANS. 


words,  "  As  they  ministered  to  the  Lord,  and 
fasted,  the  Holy  Ghost  said,  Separate  me  Bar- 
nabas and  Saul."  (Acts  xiii:   2.) 

From  this  passage  it  is  manifest  *  that  the 
power  of  the  Son  and  Spirit  is  one,  for  being 
commissioned  by  the  Spirit,  he  says  that  he  was 
commissioned   by    Christ.      This    appears    in 
another  place,  from  his  ascription  of  the  things 
of  God  to  the  Spirit,  in  $he  words  which  he 
addresses  to  the  eiders  at  Miletus:   "Take  heed 
unto  yourselves,  and  to  all  the  flock,  in  the  which 
the  Holy  Ghost  hath  made  you  bishops. ' '  (Acts  xx: 
28.)    Yet  in  another  Epistle  he  says,  "And  God 
hath  set  some  in  the   Church,   first   Apostles, 
secondly  prophets,  thirdly  teachers."  (1  Cor.  xii: 
28.)    Thus  he  ascribes  indifferently  the  things 
of  the  Spirit  to  God,  and  the  things  of  God  to 
the  Spirit.     Here  too  he  stops  the  mouths  of 
heretics,  by  the  words  "through  Jesus  Christ 
and  God  the  Father;  "  for,  inasmuch  as  they 
said  this  term  "through  "  was  applied  to  the 
Son  as  importing  inferiority,  see  what  he  does. 
He  ascribes  it  to  the  Father,  thus  teaching  us 
not  to  prescribe  laws  to  the  ineffable  Nature, 
nor  define  the  degrees  of  Godhead  which  belong 
to  the  Father  and    Son.     For  to  the    words 
"through  Jesus  Christ"  he  has  added,  "and 
God  the  Father;  "  for  if  at  the  mention  of  the 
Father  alone   he   had   introduced   the    phrase 
"through  whom,"    they   might    have   argued 
sophistically  that  it  was  peculiarly  applicable  to 
the  Father,  in  that  the  acts  of  the  Son  were  to 
be  referred  to  Him.     But  he  leaves  no  opening 
for  this  cavil,  by  mentioning  at  once  both  the 
Son  and  the  Father,  and  making  his  language 
apply  to  both.     This  he  does,  not  as  referring 
the  acts  of  the  Son  to  the  Father,  but  to  show 
that  the  expression  implies  no  distinction  of 
Essence.  *    Further,  what  can  now  be  said  by 
those,  who  have  gathered  a  notion  of  inferiority 
from  the  Baptismal  formula, — from  our  being 
baptized  into  the  name  of  the  Father,  Son,  and 
Holy  Spirit  ?  s  For  if  the  Son  be  inferior  because 
He  is  named  after  the  Father,  what  will  they 
say  seeing  that,  in  the   passage  before  us,  the 
Apostle  beginning  from  Christ  proceeds  to  men- 
tion the  Father  ? — but  let  us  not  even  utter  such 
a  blasphemy,  let  us  not  swerve  from  the  truth  in 
our  contention  with  them ;  rather  let  us  preserve, 
even  if  they  rave  ten  thousand  times,  the  due 
measures  of  reverence.     Since  then  it  would  be 
the  height  of  madqess  and  impiety  to  argue  that 

1  This  digression,  and  others  which  follow,  were  occasioned  by 
the  controversies  of  the  day  ;  the  Arians  and  Macedonians  deny- 
ing the  co-equality  and  consubstantialit?  of  Father,  Son,  and 
Holy  Ghost. 

'  I"  To  urge  this  use  of  6t&  in  connection  with  Son  and  the  Father 
**  direct  evidence  for  the  bfioovata  of  the  Father  and  the  Son  (as 
Chrrsostom  and  Theod.Jmay  perhaps  be  rightly  deemed  precarious. 
>ct  there  is  something  very  noticeable  in  this  use  of  a  common 
Proposition  with  both  the  first  and  second  persons  of  the  Trinity  by 
*  writer  to  cumulative  and  yet  for  the  most  part  so  exact  in  his 
^ofprepositions  as  St.  Paul."— KUicott.— G.  A.] 

1  [That  is,  from  the  order  of  the  three  names. — G.  A.] 


the  Son  was  greater  than  the  Father  because 
Christ  was  first  named,  so  we  dare  not  hold  that 
the  Son  is  inferior  to  the  Father,  because  He  is 
placed  after  Him  in  the  Baptismal  formula. 
"  Who  raised  Him  from  the  dead." 

Wherefore  is  it,  O  Paul,  that,  wishing  to 
bring  these  Judaizers  to  the  faith,  you  introduce 
none  of  those  great  and  illustrious  topics  which 
occur  in  your  Epistle  to  the  Philippians,  as, 
"  Who,  being  in  the  form  of  God,  counted  it 
not  a  prize  to  be  on  an  equality  with  God," 
(Phil,  ii:  6.)  or  which  you  afterwards 
declared  in  that  to  the  Hebrews,  "  the  efful- 
gence of  his  glory,  and  the  very  image  of  His 
substance  ;  "  (Heb.  i :  3.)  or  again,  what  in  the 
opening  of  his  Gospel  the  son  of  thunder  sounded 
forth,  "  In  the  beginning  was  the  Word,  and  the 
Word  was  with  God,  and  the  Word  was  God ;  " 
(John  i:  1.)  or  what  Jesus  Himself  oftentimes 
declared  to  the  Jews,  "  that  His  power  and 
authority  was  equal  to  the  Father's?  "  (John  v: 
19,  27,  &c.)  Do  you  omit  all  these,  and  make 
mention  of  the  economy  of  His  Incarnation 
only,  bringing  forward  His  cross  and  dying  ? 
"  Yes,"  would  Paul  answer.  For  had  this 
discourse  been  addressed  to  those  who  had 
unworthy  conceptions  of  Christ,  it  would  have 
been  well  to  mention  those  things  ;  but,  inas- 
much as  the  disturbance  comes  from  persons 
who  fear  to  incur  punishment  should  they 
abandon  the  Law,  he  therefore  mentions 
that  whereby  all  need  of  the  Law  is  excluded, 
I  mean  the  benefit  conferred  on  all  through  the 
Cross  and  the  Resurrection.  To  have  said  that 
"  in  the  beginning  was  the  Word,"  and  that 
"  He  was  in  the  form  of  God,  and  made  Him- 
self equal  with  God,"  and  the  like,  would  have 
declared  the  divinity  of  the  Word,  but  would 
have  contributed  nothing  to  the  matter  in  hand. 
Whereas  it  was  highly  pertinent  thereto  to  add, 
"  Who  raised  Him  from  the  dead,"  for  our 
chiefest  benefit  was  thus  brought  to  remem- 
brance, and  men  in  general  are  less  interested 
by  discourses  concerning  the  majesty  of  God, 
than  by  those  which  set  forth  the  benefits  which 
come  to  mankind.  Wherefore,  omitting  the 
former  topic,  he  discourses  of  the  benefits 
which  had  been  conferred  on  us. 

But  here  the  heretics  insultingly  exclaim, 
"  Lo,  the  Father  raises  the  Son  !  "  For  when 
once  infected,  they  are  wilfully  deaf  to  all 
sublimer  doctrines ;  and  taking  by  itself  and 
insisting  on  what  is  of  a  less  exalted  nature, 
and  expressed  in  less  exalted  terms,  either  on 
account  of  the  Son's  humanity,  or  in  honor  of 
the  Father,  or  for  some  other  temporary  purpose, 
they  outrage,  I  will  not  say  the  Scripture,  but 
themselves.  I  would  fain  ask  such  persons, 
why  they  say  this  ?  do  they  hope  to  prove  the 
Son   weak  and  powerless  to  raise   one  body? 


WORKS  OF  ST.  CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Chapter  L 


I 

Nay,  verily,  faith  in  Him  enabled  the  very: 
shadows  of  those  who  believed  in  Him  to  effect 
the  resurrection  of  the  dead.  (Acts,  v:  15.) 
Then  believers  in  Him,  though  mortal,  yet  by 
the  very  shadows  of  their  earthly  bodies,  and  ■ 
by  the  garments  which  had  touched  these 
bodies,  could  raise  the  dead,  but  He  could  not 
raise  Himself?  Is  not  this  manifest  madness, 
a  great  stretch  of  folly  ?  Hast  thou  not  heard 
His  saying,  "  Destroy  this  Temple,  and  in  three 
days  1  will  raise  it  up?  "  (John  ii :  19.)  and  again, 
"  1  have  power  to  lay  down  my  life,  and  I  have 
power  to  take  it  again?  "  (John  x :  18.)  Where- 
fore then  is  the  Father  said  to  have  raised  Him 
up,  as  also  to  have  done  other  things  which  the 
Son  Himself  did?  It  is  in  honor  of  the 
Father,  arid  in  compassion  to  the  weakness  of 
the  hearers. 

"  And  all  the  brethren  which  are  with  me." 

Why  is  it  that  he  has  on  no  other  occasion 
in  sending  an  epistle  added  this  phrase  ?  For 
either  he  puts  his  own  name  only  or  that  of 
two  or  three  others,  but  here  has  mentioned  the 
whole  number  and  so  has  mentioned  no  one  by 
name. 

On  what  account  then  does  he  this? 

They  made  the  slanderous  charge  that  he  was 
singular  in  his  preaching,  and  desired  to  intro- 
duce novelty  in  Christian  teaching.  Wishing 
therefore  to  remove  their  suspicion,  and  to  show 
he  had  many  to  support  him  in  his  doctrine,  he 
has  associated  with  himself  "  the  brethren,' '  to 
show  that  what  he  wrote  he  wrote  with  their 
accord.1 

"Unto  the  Churches  of  Galatia." 

Thus  it  appears,  that  the  flame  of  error  had 
spread  over  not  one  or  two  cities  merely,  but 
the  whole  Galatian  people.  Consider  too  the 
grave  indignation  contained  in  the  phrase, 
"unto  the  Churches  of  Galatia:  "  he  does  not 
say,  "to  the  beloved  "  or  "  to  the  sanctified," 
and  this  omission  of  all  names  of  affection  or 
respect,  and  this  speaking  of  them  as  a  society 
merely,  without  the  addition  "  Churches  of 
God,"  for  it  is  simply  "Churches  of  Galatia," 
is  strongly  expressive  of  deep  concern  and  sor- 
row. Here  at  the  outset,  as  well  as  elsewhere, 
he  attacks  their  irregularities,  and  therefore 
gives  them  the  name  of  "Churches,"  in  order 
to  shame  them,  and  reduce  them  to  unity.  For 
persons  split  into  many  parties  cannot  properly 
claim  this  appellation,  for  the  name  of  "  Church  " 
is  a  name  of  harmony  and  concord. 

"  Grace  to  you  and  jkmcc  from  God  the 
Father,  and  our  I*>rd  Jesus  Christ." 

1  [MeycrAgrcc*  with  l.h;htfoot  «nd  Klllrott  in  the  view  that 
trArrtf  mean*  not  all  the  Christians  of  the  place  where  he  was 
fpmbably  K.pheMi*),  hut  only  his*  traveling  o»mp.inion>  ;  hut  he 
differ*  from  them  in  holding  that  *•  the  impievsive  c  licet  of  the 
epistle  could  not  hut  he  strengthened  by  indicating  that  these 
brethren  collectively  desired  to  addrev»  the  very  name  inMructiout, 
warning*  and  exhortation*  to  the  Ualatian*."— 1 1.  A.] 


This  he  always  mentions  as  indispensible, 
and  in  this  Epistle  to  the  Galatians  especially; 
for  since  they  were  in  danger  of  falling  from 
grace  he  prays  that  they  may  recover  it  again, 
and  since  they  had  come  to  be  at  war  with  God, 
he  beseeches  God  to  restore  them  to  the  same 
peace. 

"God  the  Father." 

Here  again  is  a  plain  confutation  of  the  here- 
tics, who  say  that  John  in  the  opening  of  his 
Gospel,  where  he  says  "the  Word  was  God," 
used  the  word  Bed?  without  the  article,  to  imply 
an  inferiority  in  the  Son's  Godhead ;  and  that 
Paul,  where  he  says  that  the  Son  was  "in  the 
form  of  God,"  did  not  mean  the  Father,  be- 
cause the  word  Beds  is  without  the  article.  For 
what  can  they  say  here,  where  Paul  says,  Ant 
6 too  flarpos,  and  not  aizb  rob  Seob?  And  it  is 
in  no  indulgent  mood  towards  them  that  he 
calls  God,  "Father,"  but  by  way  of  severe 
rebuke,  and  suggestion  of  the  source  whence 
they  became  sons,  for  the  honor  was  vouch- 
safed to  them  not  through  the  Law,  but  through 
the  washing  of  regeneration.  Thus  everywhere,  • 
even  in  his  exordium,  he  scatters  traces  of  the 
goodness  of  God,  and  we  may  conceive  him 
speaking  thus:  "  O  ye  who  were  lately  slaves, 
enemies  and  aliens,  what  right  have  ye  suddenly 
acquired  to  call  God  your  Father  ?  it  was  not 
the  Law  which  conferred  upon  you  this  relation- 
ship ;  why  do  ye  therefore  desert  Him  who 
brought  you  so  near  to  God,  and  return  to  your 
tutor  ?* 

But  the  Name  of  the  Son,  as  well  as  that  of 
the  Father,  had  been  sufficient  to  declare  to 
them  these  blessings.  This  will  appear,  if  we 
consider  the  Name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ 
with  attention;  for  it  is  said,  "thou  shalt  call 
His  Name  Jesus  ;  for  it  is  He  that  shall  save  His 
people  from  their  sins;  "  (Matt,  i:  21.)  and  the 
appellation  of  "  Christ"  calls  to  mind  the  unc- 
tion of  the  Spirit. 

Ver  4.   "  Who  gave  himself  for  our  sins."  s 

Thus  it  appears,  that  the  ministry  which  He 
undertook  was  free  and  uncompelled ;  that  He 
was  delivered  up  by  Himself,  not  by  another. 
Let  not  therefore  the  words  of  John,  "  that  the 
Father  gave  His  only-begotton  Son"  (Jo.  iii:  16.) 
for  us,  lead  you  to  derogate  from  the  dignity  of  the 
Only- begotten,  or  to  infer  therefrom  that  He  is 
only  human.  For  the  Father  is  said  to  have 
given  Him,  not  as  implying  that  the  Son's  min- 
istry was  a  servile  one,  but  to  teach  us  that  it 
seemed-  good  to  the  Father,  as  Paul  too  has 
shown  in  the  immediate  context:  "according 
to  the  will  of  our  God,  and  Father. ' '  He  says  not 

*  [The  wordisirai£ay<oY6c,  the  same  that  is  used  in  Gal.  3  :  24,  25, 
and  translated' school-master  *  in  the  A.  V.,  but  'tutor*  in  the  Rev. 
Ver—  G.  A.J 

1  I  "  The  Galatians  had  practically  ignored  the  atoning  death  of 
Christ  ;  compare  ii  :  ai  and  v  :  4."— Light  foot.— G.  A.] 


Chapter!.] 


COMMENTARY  ON  GALATIANS. 


5 


"by  the  command,"  but  "according  to  the  will," 
for  inasmuch  as  there  is  an  unity  of  will  in  the 
Father  and  the  Son,  that  which  the  Son  wills, 
the  Father  wills  also. 

"For  our  sins,"1  says  the  Apostle;  we  had 
pierced  ourselves  with  ten  thousand  evils,  and 
had  deserved  the  gravest  punishment ;  and  the 
Law  not  only  did  not  deliver  us,  but  it  even 
condemned  us,  making  sin  more  manifest,  with- 
out the  power  to  release  us  from  it,  or  to  stay 
the  anger  of  God.  But  the  Son  of  God  made 
this  impossibility  possible  for  he  remitted  our 
sins,  He  restored  us  from  enmity  to  the  condi- 
tion of  friends,  He  freely  bestowed  on  us  num- 
berless other  blessings. 

Ver.  4.  "That  He  might  deliver  us  out  of 
this  present  evil  world." 

Another   class  of  heretics2  seize  upon  these 
words  of  Paul,  and  pervert  his  testimony  to  an 
accusation  of  the  present  life.     Lo,  say  they,  he 
has  called  this  present  world  evil,  ana  pray  tell 
me  what  does  "world"  [age]  attov  mean  but 
time  measured  by  days  and  seasons  ?     Is  then 
the  distinction  of  days  and  the  course  of  the  sun 
evil  ?  no  one  would  assert  this  even  if  he  be  car- 
ried away  to  the  extreme  of  unreasonableness. 
"But"  they  say,  "it  is  not  the  'time,'  but 
the  present  '  life,'  which  he  hath  called  evil.'  " 
Now  the  words  themselves  do  not  in  fact  say 
this ;  but  the  heretics  do  not  rest  in  the  words, 
and  frame  their  charge  from  them,  but  propose 
to  themselves  a  new  mode  of  interpretation.    At 
least  therefore  they  must  allow  us  to  produce  our 
interpretation,  and  the  rather  in  that  it  is  both 
pious  and   rational.     We  assert  then  that  evil 
cannot  be  the  cause  of  good,  yet  that  the  pres- 
ent life  is  productive  of  a  thousand  prizes  and 
rewards.     And    so    the  blessed  Paul  himself 
extols  it  abundantly  in  the  words,  "But  if  to 
live   in    the    flesh,  if  this  is  the  fruit  of  my 
work,  then  what  I  shall  choose  I  wot  not;  " 
(Phil,  i:   22.)  and  then  placing  before  himself 
the  alternative  of  living  upon  earth,  and  de- 
parting and  being  with  Christ,  he  decides  for 
the  former.     But  were  this  life  evil,  he  would 
not  have  thus  spoken  of  it,  nor  could  any  one, 
however  strenuous  his  endeavor,  draw  it  aside 
into  the  service  of  virtue.     For  no  one  would 
ever  use  evil  for  good,  fornication  for  chastity, 
envy  for  benevolence.     And  so,  when  he  says, 
that  "the  mind  of  the  flesh  is  not  subject  to  the 
law  of  God,  neither  indeed  can  it  be,  (Rom.  viii: 
7)  he  means  that  vice,  as  such,  cannot  become 
virtue;  and  the  expression,  "  evil  world,"  must 
be  understood   to   mean   evil   actions,    and   a 

_  '["The   idea  of  satisfaction  is  implied  not  in  the  preposition 
»»«p,  but  the  whole  nature  of  the  case." — Meyer. — G.A.] 

'  That  is,  the  Manichees,  who  considered  matter  intrinsically 
«*il,  and  paid  divine  honors  to  the  sun,  moon,  and  stars.  Vid. 
M>iph.  Har.  ljsvi.  [On  Mani  and  the  Manichean  heresy  see 
Scha/f,  Church  Hiitory,  Vol.  II.  pp.  498-508  where  a  full  account 
of  the  literature  is  given  also. — G.  A.J 


depraved  moral  principle.  Again,  Christ  came 
not  to  put  us  to  death  and  deliver  us  from  the 
present  life  in  that  sense,  but  to  leave  us  in  the 
world,  and  prepare  us  for  a  worthy  participa- 
tion of  our  heavenly  abode.  Wherefore  He 
saith  to  the  Father,  "And  these  are  in  the 
world,  and  I  come  to  Thee  ;  I  pray  not  that 
Thou  shouldest  take  them  from  the  world,  but 
that  Thou  shouldest  keep  them  from  the  evil," 
(Jo.  xvii :  11,  15.)  i.  e.,  from  sin.  Further, 
those  who  will  not  allow  this,  but  insist  that  the 
present  life  is  evil,  should  not  blame  those  who 
destroy  themselves;  for  as  he  who  withdraws 
himself  from  evil  is  not  blamed,  but  deemed 
worthy  of  a  crown,  so  he  who  by  a  violent 
death,  by  hanging  or  otherwise,  puts  an  end  to 
his  life,  ought  not  to  be  condemned.  Whereas 
God  punishes  such  men  more  than  murderers, 
and  we  all  regard  them  with  horror,  and  justly  ; 
for  if  it  is  base  to  destroy  others,  much  more  is 
it  to  destroy  one's  self.  Moreover,  if  this  life  be 
evil,  murderers  would  deserve  a  crown,  as  res- 
cuing us  from  evil.  Besides  this,  they  are 
caught  by  their  own  words,  for  in  that  they 
place  the  sun  in  the  first,  and  the  moon  in  the 
second  rank  of  their  deities,  and  worship  them 
as  the  givers  of  many  goods,  their  statements 
are  contradictory.  For  the  use  of  these  and  the 
other  heavenly  bodies,  is  none  other  than  to 
contribute  to  our  present  life,  which  they  say 
is  evil,  by  nourishing  and  giving  light  to  the 
bodies  of  men  and  animals  and  bringing 
plants  to  maturity.  How  is  it  then  that  the  con- 
stitution of  this  "  evil  life  is  so  ministered  toby 
those,  who  according  to  you  are  gods  ?  Gods 
indeed  they  are  not,  far  from  it,  but  works  of 
God  created  for  our  use  ;  nor  is  this  world  evil. 
And  if  you  tell  me  of  murderers,  of  adulterers, 
of  tomb-robbers,  these  things  have*  nothing  to 
do  with  the  present  life,  for  these  offences  pro- 
ceed not  from  that  life  which  we  live  in  the 
flesh,  but  from  a  depraved  will.  For,  if  they 
were  necessarily  connected  with  this  life,  as 
embraced  in  one  lot  with  it,  no  man  would  be 
free  or  pure  from  them,  for  no  man  can  escape 
the  characteristic  accidents  of  humanity,  such 
as,  to  eat  and  drink,  to  sleep  and  grow,  to  hun- 
ger and  thirst,  to  be  born  and  die,  and  the  like ; 
no  man  can  ever  become  superior  to  these, 
neither  sinner  nor  just  man,  king  nor  peasant, 
We  all  are  subject  to  the  necessity  of  nature. 
And  so  if  vice  were  an  essential  element  of  this 
life,  no  one  could  avoid  it,  any  more  than  the 
things  just  mentioned.  And  let  me  not  be  told 
that  good  men  are  rare,  for  natural  necessity  is 
insuperable  by  all,  so  that  as  long  as  one  virtu- 
ous man  shall  be  found,  my  argument  will  in  no 
wise  be  invalidated.  Miserable,  wretchedman! 
what  is  it  thou  sayest  ?  Is  this  life  evil,  wherein 
we  have  learnt  to  know  God,  and  meditate  on 


WORKS  OF  ST.  CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Chapter  I. 


things  to  come,  and  have  become  angels  instead 
of  men,  and  take  part  in  the  choirs  of  the 
heavenly  powers?  What  other  proof  do  we 
need  of  an  evil  and  depraved  mind  ? 

"  Why  then,"  they  say,  "  does  Paul  call  the 
present  life  evil?"  In  calling  the  present 
world  [age]  evil,  he  has  accommodated  himself 
to  our  usage,  who  are  wont  to  say,  "  I  have  had 
a  bad  day,"  thereby  complaining  not  of  the 
time  itself,  but  of  actions  or  circumstances. 
And  so  Paul  in  complaining  of  evil  principles  of 
action  has  used  these  customary  forms  of  speech ; 
and  he  shows  that  Christ  hath  both  delivered 
us  from  our  offences,  and  secured  us  for  the 
future.  The  first  he  has  declared  in  the  words, 
"  Who  gave  Himself  for  our  sins;  "  and  by 
adding,  "that  He  might  deliver  us  out  of 
this  present  evil  world,"  he  has  pronounced  our 
future  safety.  For  neither  of  these  did  the  Law 
avail,  but  grace  was  sufficient  for  both. 

Ver.  4.  "  According  to  the  will  of  our  God 
and  Father."  l 

Since  they  were  terrified  by  their  notion  that  by 
deserting  that  old  Law  and  adhering  to  the  new, 
they  should  disobey  God,  who  gave  the  Law, 
he  corrects  their  error,  and  says,  that  this 
seemed  good  to  the  Father  also :  and  not  simply 
"the  Father,"  but  "our  Father,"  which  he 
does  in  order  to  affect  them  by  showing  that 
Christ  has  made  His  Father  our  Father. 

Ver.  5.  "To  whom  be  the  glory  for  ever 
and  ever.     Amen." 

This  too  is  new  and  unusual,  for  we  never  find 
the  word,  "Amen"  placed  at  the  beginning  of 
an  Epistle,  but  a  good  way  on ;  here,  however, 
he  has  it  in  his  beginning,  to  show  that  what  he 
had  already  said  contained  a  sufficient  charge 
against  the  Galatians,  and  that  his  argument 
was  complete,  for  a  manifest  offence  does  not 
require  an  elaborate  crimination.  Having 
spoken  of  the  Cross,  and  Resurrection,  of 
redemption  from  sin  and  security  for  the  future, 
of  the  purpose  of  the  Father,  and  the  will  of  the 
Son,  of  grace  and  peace  and  His  whole  gift,  he 
concludes  with  an  ascription  of  praise. 

Another  reason  for  it  is  the  exceeding  astonish- 
ment into  which  he  was  thrown  by  the  magni- 
tude of  the  gift,  the  superabundance  of  the 
grace,  the  consideration  who  we  were,  and  what 
God  had  wrought,  and  that  at  once  and  in  a 
single  moment  of  time.  Unable  to  express  this 
in  words,  he  breaks  out  into  adoxology,  sending 
up  for  the  whole  world  an  eulogium,  not  indeed 
worthy  of  the  subject,  but  such  as  was  possible 
to  him.  Hence  too  he  proceeds  to  use  more 
vehement  language;  as  if  greatly  kindled  by  a 
sense  of  the  Divine  benefits,  for  having  said, 

^"And  not  by  our  own  merits,  cf.  tow  Ka\i<ra.vros,v.  6." — 
Light  foot . 

"  The  salvation  was  willed  by  God  to  whom  Christ  was  obedient 
(Phil,  ii :  9). "—Meyer.— G.  A.j 


"  To  whom  be  the  glory  for  ever  and  ever, 
Amen,"  he  commences  with  a  more  severe 
reproof. 

Ver.  6.  "I  marvel  that  ye  are  so  quickly1 
removing2  from  Him  that  called  you  in  the 
grace  of  Christ,  unto  a  different  Gospel." 

Like  Jhe  Jews  who  persecuted  Christ,  they 
imagined  their  observance  of  the  Law  was  accep- 
table to  the  Father,  and  he  therefore  shows  that 
in  doing  this  they  displeased  not  only  Christ, 
but  the  Father  also,  for  that  they  fell  away 
thereby  not  from  Christ  only,  but  from  the 
Father  also.  As  the  old  covenant  was  given  not 
by  the  Father  only,  but  also  by  the  Son,  so  the 
covenant  of  grace  proceeded  from  the  Father 
as  well  as  the  Son,  and  Their  every  act  is  com- 
mon :  "All  things  whatsoever  the  Father  hath 
are  Mine."  (John  xv :  16.)  By  saying  that  they 
had  fallen  off  from  the  Father,  he  brings  a  two- 
fold charge  against  them,  of  an  apostasy,  and  of 
an  immediate  apostasy.  The  opposite  extreme 
a  late  apostasy,  is  also  blameworthy,  but  he 
who  falls  away  at  the  first  onset,  and  in  the  very 
skirmishing,  displays  an  example  of  the  most 
extreme  cowardice,  of  which  very  thing  he 
accuses  them  also  saying:  "How  is  this  that 
your  seducers  need  not  even  time  for  their  designs, 
but  the  first  approaches  suffice  for  your  over- 
throw and  capture  ?  And  what  excuse  can  ye 
have?  If  this  is  a  crime  among  friends,  and  he 
who  deserts  old  and  useful  associates  is  to  be 
condemned,  consider  what  punishment  he  is 
obnoxious  to  who  revolts  from  God  that  called 
him."  He  says,  "  I  marvel,"  not  only  by  way  of 
reproof,  that  after  such  bounty,  such  a  remission 
of  their  sins,  such  overflowing  kindness,  they 
had  deserted  to  the  yoke  of  servitude,  but  also 
in  order  to  show,  that  the  opinion  he  had  had  of 
them  was  a  favorable  and  exalted  one.  For, 
had  he  ranked  them  among  ordinary  and  easily 
deceived  persons,  he  would  not  have  felt  sur- 
prise. "  But  since  you,"  he  says,  "  are  of  the 
noble  sort  and  have  suffered,  much,  I  do  marvel. ' ' 
Surely  this  was  enough  to  recover  and  lead  them 
back  to  their  first  expressions.  He  alludes  to  it 
also  in  the  middle  of  the  Epistle,  "  Did  ye  suffer 
so  many  things  in  vain  ?  if  it  be  indeed  in  vain." 
(Gal.  iii :  4.)  "  Ye  are  removing  ;  "  he  says  not, 
"  ye  are  removed,"  that  is,  "I  will  not  believe  or 
suppose  that  your  seduction  is  complete  ;  "  this 
is  the  language  of  one  about  to  recover  them, 
which  further  on  he  expresses  yet  more  clearly 
in  the  words,  "I  have  confidence  to  you-ward 
in  the  Lord  that  ye  will  be  none  otherwise 
minded."     (Gal.  v:  10.) 

"  From  Him  that  called  you  in  the  grace  of 
Christ." 


9  [This  note  of  time  helps  to  fix  the  date  of  the  Epistle  as  being 
about  56  or  57  during  Paul's  two  years'  stay  at  Kphesus  (Ac.  19:10). 
So  most  modern  expositors,  though  Light  foot  and  some  others 
put  it  later.— G.  A.] 


Chapter  I.J 


COMMENTARY  ON  GALATIANS. 


The  calling  is  from  the  Father,  but  the  cause 
of  it  is  the  Son.  He  it  is  who  hath  brought 
about  reconciliation  and  bestowed  it  as  a  gift, 
for  we  were  not  saved  by  works  in  righteousness : 
or  I  should  rather  say  that  these  blessings  pro- 
ceed from  Both  ;  as  He  says,  "  Mine  are  Thine, 
and  Thine  are  Mine."  (John  xvii :  10. )  .He  says 
not  "ye  are  removing  from  the  Gospel"  but 
"from  God  who  called  you, "a  more  frightful 
expression,  and  more  likely  to  affect  them. 
Their  seducers  did  not  act  abruptly  but  gradu- 
ally, and  while  they  removed  them  from  the 
faith  in  fact,  left  names  unchanged.  It  is  the 
policy  of  Satan  not  to  set  his  snares  in  open  view ; 
had  they  urged  them  to  fall  away  from  Christ, 
they  would  have  been  shunned  as  deceivers  and 
corrupters,  but  suffering  them  so  far  to  continue 
in  the  faith,  and  putting  upon  their  error  the 
name  of  the  Gospel,  without  fear  they  under- 
mined the  building  employing  the  terms  which 
they  used  as  a  sort  of  curtain  to  conceal  the 
destroyers  themselves.  As  therefore  they  gave 
the  name  of  Gospel  to  this  their  imposture,  he 
contends  against  the  very  name,  and  boldly  says, 
"  unto  a  different  Gospel," — 
Ver.  7.  "  Which  is  not  another  Gospel." 
And  justly,  for  there  is  not  another.1  Never- 
theless the  Marcionites*  are  misled  *by  this 
phrase,  as  diseased  persons  are  injured  even 
by  healthy  food,  for  they  have  seized  upon  it, 
and  exclaim,  "So  Paul  himself  has  declared 
there  is  no  other  Gospel."  For  they  do  not 
allow  all  the  Evangelists,  but  one  only,  and 
him  mutilated  and  confused  according  to  their 
pleasure.  Their  explanation  of  the  words, 
"  according  to  my  Gospel  and  the  preaching  of 
Jesus  Christ,"  (Rom.  xvi:  25.)  is  sufficiently 
ridiculous ;  nevertheless,  for  the  sake  of  those 
who  are  easily  seduced,  it  is  necessary  to  refute 
it.  We  assert,  therefore,  that,  although  a 
thousand  Gospels  were  written,  if  the  contents 
of  all  were  the  same,  they  would  still  be  one, 
and  their  unity  no  wise  infringed  by  the 
number  of  writers.  So,  on  the  other  hand, 
if  there  were  one  writer  only,  but  he  were 
to  contradict  himself,  the  unity  of  the 
things  written  would  be  destroyed.  For  the 
oneness  of  a  work  depends  not  on  the  number 
of  its  authors,  but  on  the  agreement  or  contra- 
dictoriness  of  its  contents.  Whence  it  is  clear 
that  the  four  Gospels  are  one  Gospel ;  for,  as  the 
four  say  the  same  thing,  its  oneness  is  preserved 

..  'R*  Reviscd  v«««on  brings  out  the  difference  of  the  words  for 
anther."  The  first  is  crcpov,  "a  different  kind  of"  gospel,  the  sec- 
ond 1*  aAAo,  "another,"  simply.  "  To  a  different  sort  of  gospel,— nay 
«  »  not  another  gospel.  There  cannot  be  two  gospels.  Only  cer- 
tain men  are  troubling  you  and  trying  to  pervert  the  gospel  of 
ujmt.    But  a  perverted  gospel  is  no  gospel  at  all."— G.  A.I   . 

-Marcion  flourished  about  A.  D.  120—130.  His  doctrine  was  a 
expound  of  various  preceding  theologies,  chiefly  the  Gnostic, 
ne  received  only  a  part  of  St.  Luke's  Gospel.  Tertull.  in  Afarc. 
JV *-4-  He  it  was  who  on  asking  Polycarp  to  "  acknowledge  " 
mm.  received  for  answer,  "  1  acknowledge  thee  as  the  first-bora  of 


by  the  harmony  of  the  contents,  and  not 
impaired  by  the  difference  of  persons.  And 
Paul  is  not  now  speaking  of  the  number  but  of 
the  discrepancy  of  the  things  spoken.  With 
justice  might  they  lay  hold  of  this  expression, 
if  the  Gospels  of  Matthew  and  Luke  differed  in 
the  signification  of  their  contents,  and  in  their 
doctrinal  accuracy ;  but  as  they  are  one  and  the 
same,  let  them  cease  being  senseless  and  pre- 
tending to  be  ignorant  of  these  things  which 
are  plain  to  the  very  children. 

Ver.  7.  "  Only  there  are  some  that  trouble 
you,  and  would  pervert  the  Gospel  of  Christ." 

That  is  to  say,  ye  will  not  recognize  another 
Gospel,  so  long  as  your  mind  is  sane,  so  long  as 
your  vision  remains  healthy,  and  free  from  dis- 
torted and  imaginary  phantoms.  For  as  the 
disordered  eye  mistakes  the  object  presented  to 
it,  so  does  the  mind  when  made  turbid  by  the 
confusion  of  evil  thoughts.  Thus  the  madman 
confounds  objects;  but  this  insanity  is  more 
dangerous  than  a  physical  malady,  for  it  works 
injury  not  in  the  regions  of  sense,  but  of  the 
mind ;  it  creates  confusion  not  in  the  organ  of 
bodily  vision,  but  in  the  eye  of  the  understand- 
ing. 

"  And  would8  pervert  the  Gospel  of  Christ." 
They  had,  in  fact,  only  introduced  one  or 
two  commandments,  circumcision  and  the 
observance  of  days,  but  he  says  that  the  Gospel 
was  subverted,  in  order  to  show  that  a  slight 
adulteration  vitiates  the  whole.  For  as  he  who 
but  partially  pares  away  the  image  on  a  royal 
coin  renders  the  whole  spurious,  so  he  who 
swerves  ever  so  little  from  the  pure  faith,  soon 
proceeds  from  this  to  graver  errors,  and  becomes 
entirely  corrupted.  Where  then  are  those  who 
charge  us  with  being  contentious  in  separating 
from  heretics,  and  say  that  there  is  no  real 
difference  between  us  except  what  arises 
from  our  ambition?  Let  them  hear  Paul's 
assertion,  that  those  who  had  but  slightly 
innovated,  subverted  the  Gospel.  Not  to  say 
that  the  Son  of  God  is  a  created  Being,  is  a 
small  matter.  Know  you  not  that  even  under 
the  elder  covenant,  a  man  who  gathered  sticks 
on  the  sabbath,  and  transgressed  a  single  com- 
mandment, and  that  not  a  great  one,  was  pun- 
ished with  death?  (Num.  xv:  32,  36.)  and 
that  Uzzah,  who  supported  the  Ark  when  on  the 
point  of  being  overturned,  was  struck  suddenly 
dead,  because  he  had  intruded  upon  an  office 
which  did  not  pertain  to  him  ?  (2  Sam.  vi :  6,  7.) 
Wherefore  if  to  transgress  the  sabbath,  and  to 
touch  the  falling  Ark,  drew  down  the  wrath  of 
God  so  signally  as  to  deprive  the  offender  of 
even  a  momentary  respite,  shall  he  who  corrupts 
unutterably  awful  doctrines  find  excuse  and  par- 

*  [OikovTt*  :  On  this  word  Jerome  aptly  says,  Volunt  std  non 
valent.  The  troubling  of  the  Galatians,  however,  did  actually 
take  place, — G.  A.J 


8 


WORKS  OF  ST.  CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Chapter  L 


don?     Assuredly  not.     A  want  of  zeal  in  small 
matters  is  the  cause  of  all  our  calamities ;  and 
because  slight  errors  escape  fitting  correction, 
greater   ones   creep   in.      As   in   the  body,    a 
neglect  of  wounds  generates  fever,  mortification, 
and  death  ;  so  in  the  soul,  slight  evils  overlooked 
open  the  door  to  graver  ones.     It  is  accounted 
a  trivial  fault  that  one  man  should  neglect  fast- 
ing;   that  another,  who  is  established   in  the 
pure  faith,  dissembling  on   account  of  circum- 
stances, should    surrender    his  bold  profession 
of  it,  neither  is  this  anything  great  or  dreadful ; 
that  a  third  should  be  irritated,  and  threaten  to 
depart  from  the  true  faith,  is  excused  on  the 
plea  of  passion  and  resentment.     Thus  a  thous- 
and similar  errors  are  daily  introduced  into  the 
Church,  and  we  are  become  a  laughing-stock  to 
Jews  and   Greeks,  seeing   that   the  Church  is 
divided  into  a  thousand  parties.  But  if  a  proper 
rebuke  had  at   first   been  given  to  those  who 
attempted  slight  perversions,  and  a  deflection 
from  the  divine  oracles,  such  a  pestilence  would 
not  have  been  generated,  nor  such  a  storm  have 
seized  upon  the  Churches.  You  will  now  under- 
stand why  Paul  calls  circumcision  a  subversion 
of  the  Gospel.  There  are  many  among  us  now, 
who  fast  on  the  same  day  as  the  Jews,  and  keep 
the  sabbaths  in   the    same  manner;   and  we 
t  endure  it  nobly  or  rather  ignobly  and  basely. 
And  why  do  I  speak  of  Jews  seeing  that  many 
Gentile  customs  are  observed  by  some  among 
us;  omens,  auguries,  presages,  distinctions  of 
days,  a  curious  attention  to  the  circumstances 
>    of  their  children's  birth,  and,  as  soon  as  they  are 
born,    tablets    with    impious    inscriptions   are 
placed  upon  their  unhappy  heads,  thereby  teach- 
ing them  from  the  first  to  lay  aside  virtuous 
endeavors,  and  drawing  part  of  them  at  least 
under  the   false  domination  of   fate.1     But  if 
Christ  in  no  way  profits  those  that  are  circumcised, 
what  shall  faith  hereafter  avail  to  the  salvation 
of  those  who  have  introduced  such  corruptions  ? 
Although  circumcision  was  given  by  God,  yet 
Paul  used  every  effort  to  abolish  it,  because  its 
unseasonable  observance   was   injurious  to  the 
Gospel.     If  then  he  was  so  earnest  against  the 
undue  maintenance   of  Jewish   customs,   what 
excuse  can  we  have  for  not  abrogating  Gentile 
ones  ?     Hence  our  affairs  are  now  in  confusion 
and  trouble,  hence  have  our  learners  being  filled 
with  pride,  reversed  the  order  of  things  throw- 
ing every  thing  into  confusion,  and  their  dis- 
cipline having  been  neglected  by  us  their  gover- 
nors, they  spurn  our  reproof  however  gentle. 
And  yet  if  their  superiors  were  even  more  worth- 
less and  full  of  numberless  evils,  it  would  not 
be  right  for  the  disciple  to  disobey.     It  is  said 

1  [There  is  an  eloquent   passage  on   this  same  subject  of  foolish 
id  sinful  superstitions  among  Christians  in  Homily  xii.  on  Ephe- 


ftians,  near  the  end. — G.  A.] 


of  the  Jewish  doctors,  that  as  they  sat  in  Moses* 
seat,  their  disciples  were  bound  to  obey  them, 
though  their  works  were  so  evil,  that  the  Lord 
forbad  His  disciples  to  imitate  them.  What 
excuse  therefore  is  there  for  those  who  insult 
and  trample  on  men,  rulers  of  the  Church,  and 
living,  by  the  grace  of  God,  holy  lives?  If  it  be 
unlawful  for  us  to  judge  each  other,  much  more 
is  it  to  judge  our  teachers. 

Ver.  8,  9.  "  But  though  we,  or  an  angel  from 
heaven,  should  preach  unto  you  any  Gospel 
other  than  that  which  we  preached  unto  you, 
let  him  be  anathema." 

See  the  Apostle's  wisdom;  to  obviate  the 
objection  that  he  was  prompted  by  vainglory  to 
applaud  his  own  doctrine,  he  includes  himself 
also  in  his  anathema;  and  as  they  betook  them- 
selves to  authority,  that  of  James  and  John,  he 
mentions  angels  also  saying,  "  Tell  me  not  of 
James  and  John ;  if  one  of  the  most  exalted 
angels  of  heaven  corrupt  the  Gospel,  let  him  be 
anathema."  The  phrase  "of  heaven"  is  pur- 
posly  added,  because  priests  are  also  called 
angels.  "For  the  priest's  lips  should  keep 
knowledge,  and  they  should  seek  the  law  at  his 
mouth :  for  he  is  the  messenger  [angel]  of  the 
Lord  of  hosts."  (Mai.  ii:  7.)  Lest  therefore 
it  should  be  thought  that  priests  are  here  meant 
by  the  term  "angels,"  he  points  out  the  celes- 
tial intelligences  by  the  addition,  "from  heaven." 
And  he  says  not,  if  they  preach  a  contrary  Gos- 
pel, or  subvert  the  whole  of  the  true  one,  let 
them  be  anathema ;  but,  if  they  even  slightly 
vary,  or  incidentally  disturb,  my  doctrine. 
"As  we  have  said  before,  so  say  I  now  again." 
That  his  words  might  not  seem  to  be  spoken  in 
anger,  or  with  exaggeration,  or  with  recklessness 
he  now  repeats  them.2  Sentiments  may  per- 
haps change,  when  an  expression  has  been 
called  forth  by  anger,  but  to  repeat  it  a  second 
time  proves  that  it  is  spoken  advisedly,  and  was 
previously  approved  by  the  judgmant.  When 
Abraham  was  requested  to  send  Lazarus,  he  re- 
plied, "They  have  Moses  and  the  Prophets; 
let  them  hear  them  :  if  they  hear  them  not, 
neither  will  they  be  persuaded,  if  one  rise  from 
the  dead."  (  Luke  xvi :  31.)  And  Christ  intro- 
duces Abraham  thus  speaking,  to  show  that  He 
would  have  the  Scriptures  accounted  more 
worthy  of  credence,  even  than  one  raised  from 
the  dead :  Paul  too,  (and  when  I  say  Paul,  I 
mean  Christ,  who  directed  his  mind,)  prefers 
them  before  an  angel  come  clown  from  heaven. 
And  justly,  for  the  angels,  though  mighty,  are 
but  servants  and  ministers,  but  the  Scriptures 
were  all  written  and  sent,  not  by  servants,  but 

°fThough  this  view  of  Chrysostom,  that  the  Trpo«ipij«aftei'  refers 
to  what  immediately  precedes  is  held  by  m.my  others,  it  is  not  ten- 
able for  two  reasons  ;  i.  St.  Paul  would  have  used  the  singular 
irpoeiprjita,  as  he  does  in  \tyu>.  immediately  following.  2.  The  np6 
in  composition,  and  the  «<u  opri,  both,  mark  some  greater  distinc- 
tion of  time  than  this  would  allow.— G.  A.  ] 


Chapter  I.] 


COMMENTARY  ON  GALATIANS. 


by  God  the  Lord  of  all.  He  says,  if  "  any 
man  "  preach  another  Gospsl  to  you  than  that 
which  we  have  preached, — not  "  if  this  or  that 
man :  "  and  herein  appears  his  prudence,  and 
care  of  giving  offence,  for  what  needed  there 
still  any  mention  of  names,  when  he  had  used 
such  extensive  terms  as  to  embrace  all,  both  in 
heaven  and  earth  ?  In  that  he  anathemized 
evangelists  and  angels,  he  included  every  dig- 
nity, and  his  mention  of  himself  included  every 
intimacy  and  affinity.  "Tell  me  not,"  he 
exclaims,  "that  my  fellow-apostles  and  col- 
leagues have  so  spoken ;  I  spare  not  myself  if 
I  preach  such  doctrine."  And  he  says  this  not 
as  condemning  the  Apostles  for  swerving  from 
the  message  they  were  commissioned  to  deliver ; 
Car  from  it,  (  for  he  says,  whether  we  or  they 
thus  preach;)  but  to  show,  that  in  the  discuss- 
ion of  truth  the  dignity  of  persons  is  not  to  be 
considered. 

Ver.  10.  "  For  l  am  I  now  persuading  men 
or  God  ?  "  or  am  I  seeking  to  please  men  ?  if  I 
were  still  pleasing  men,  I  should  not  be  a  ser- 
vant of  Christ.' ' 

Granting,  says  he,  that  I  might  deceive  you 
by  these  doctrines,  could  I  deceive  God,  who 
knows  my  yet  unuttered  thoughts,  and  to  please 
whom  is  my  unceasing  endeavor  ?  See  here  the 
Apostolical  spirit,  the  Evangelical  loftiness !  So 
too  he  writes  to  the  Corinthians,  "For  we  are 
not  again  commending  ourselves  unto  you,  but 
speak  as  giving  you  occasion  of  glorying;  "  (2 
Cor.  v:  12.)  and  again,  "  But  with  me  it  is  a 
very  small  thing  that  I  should  be  judged  of  you, 
or  of  man's  judgment' '  (1  Cor.  iv:  3.)  For 
since  he  is  compelled  to  justify  himself  to  his 
disciples,  being  their  teacher,  he  submits  to  it ; 
but  he  is  grieved  at  it,  not  on  account  of  chagrin, 
far  from  it,  but  on  account  of  the  instability  of 
the  minds  of  those  led  away  and  on  account  of 
not  being  fully  trusted  by  them.  Wherefore 
Paul  now  speaks,  as  it  were,  thus: — Is  my 
account  to  be  rendered  to  you?  Shall  I  be 
judged  by  men  ?  My  account  is  to  God,  and  all 
my  acts  are  with  a  view  to  that  inquisition,  nor 
am  I  so  miserably  abandoned  as  to  pervert  my 
doctrine,  seeing  that  I  am  to  justify  what  I 
•  preach  before  the  Lord  of  all. 

He  thus  expressed  himself,  as  much  with  a 
view  of  withstanding  their  opinions,  as  in  self- 
defence  ;  for  it  becomes  disciples  to  obey,  not  to 
judge,  their  master.  But  now,  says  he,  that  the 
order  is  reversed,  and  ye  sit  as  judges,  know 
that  I  am  but  little  concerned  to  defend 
myself  before  you;  all,  I  do  for  God's  sake, 
and  in  order  that  I  may  answer  to  Him  concern- 
ing my  doctrine.     He  who  wishes  to  persuade 

,["  Itpeak  thus  strongly,  for  my  language  shall  not  be  miscon- 
*nied.  Will  any  one  now  say  that  careless  of  winning  the  favor  of 
God,  I  seek  to  ingratiate  myself  with  men?"  Light  foot.— G.  A.] 


men,  is  led  to  act  tortuously  and  insincerely, 
and  to  employ  deceit  and  falsehood,  in  order  to 
engage  the  assent  of  his  hearers.  But  he  who 
addresses  himself  to  God,  and  desires  to  please 
Him,  needs  simplicity  and  purity  of  mind,  for 
God  cannot  be  deceived.  Whence  it  is  plain 
that  I  have  thus  written  to  you  not  from  the 
love  of  rule,  or  to  gain  disciples,  or  to  receive 
honor  at  your  hands.  My  endeavor  has  been 
to  please  God,  not  man.  Were  it  otherwise,  I 
should  still  consort  with  the  Jews,2  still  persecute 
the  Church.  I  who  have  cast  off  my  country 
altogether,  my  companions,  rny  friends,  my 
kindred,  and  all  my  reputation,  and  taken  in 
exchange  for  these,  persecution,  enmity,  strife, 
and  daily-impending  death,  have  given  a  signal 
proof  that  I  speak  not  from  love  of  human 
applause.  This  he  says,  being  about  to  narrate 
his  former  life,  and  sudden  conversion,  and  to 
demonstrate  clearly  that  it  was  sincere.  And 
that  they  might  not  be  elevated  by  a  notion  that 
he  did  this  by  way  of  self-vindication  to  them, 
he  premises,  "  For  do  I  now  persuade  men  ?  " 
He  well  knew  how,  on  a  fitting  occasion,  to 
correct  his  disciples,  in  a  grave  and  lofty  tone : 
assuredly  he  had  other  sources  whence  to 
demonstrate  the  truth  of  his  preaching, — by 
signs  and  miracles,  by  dangers,  by  prisons,  by 
daily  deaths,  by  hunger  and  thirst,  by  naked- 
ness, and  the  like.  Now  however  that  he  is 
speaking  not  of  false  apostles,  but  of  the  true, 
who  had  shared  these  very  perils,  he  employs 
another  method.  For  when  his  discourse  was 
pointed  towards  false  apostles,  he  institutes  a  » f 
comparison  by  bringing  forward  his  endurance 
of  danger,  saying,  "Are  they  ministers  of 
Christ  ?  (I  speak  as  one  beside  himself)  I  more ; 
in  labors  more  abundantly,  in  prisons  more 
abundantly,  in  stripes  above  measure,  in  deaths 
oft."  (2  Cor.  xi :  23.)  But  now  he  speaks  of 
his  former  manner  of  life  and  says, 

Ver.  11,  12.  "For3  I  make  known  to  you, 
brethren,  as  touching  the  Gospel  which  was 
preached  by  me  that  it  is  not  after  man.  For 
neither  did  I  receive  it  from  man,  nor  was  I 
taught  it,  but  it  came  to  me  through  revelation 
of  Jesus  Christ. M 

You  observe  how  sedulously  he  affirms  that 
he  was  taught  of  Christ,  who  Himself,  without 
human  intervention,  condescended  to  reveal  to 
him  all  knowledge.  And  if  he  were  asked  for 
his  proof  that  God  Himself  thus  immediately 
revealed  to  him  these  ineffable  mysteries,  he 
would  instance  his  former  manner  of  life,  argu- 
ing that  his  conversion  would  not  have  been  so 

*  ["XPl<rT0''  SoOAo?  should  not  be  taken  in  an  historical  sense,  as 
Chrysostom.     This  would  be  feeble  and  lacking  in  depth  of  thought. 

No.  it  is  to  be  taken  in  its  ethical  character." — Meyer. — G.  A.] 

*  [The  reading  yap  (Rev.  Ver.  W.  H.)  gives  a  reason  for  what 
is  implied  in  the  sentence  preceding,  while  64,  an  inferior  reading, 
means '  but.'  (now  to  enter  more  particularly  on  the  subject  of  my 
letter)  "I  make  known  to  you." — So  Meyer. — G.  A.] 


IO 


WORKS  OF  ST.  CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Chapter  L 


sudden,  had  it  not  been  by  Divine  revelation. 
For  when  men  have  been  vehement  and  eager 
on  the  contrary  side,  their  conviction,  if  it  is 
effected  by  human  means,  requires  much  time 
and  ingenuity.  It  is  clear  therefore  that  he, 
whose  conversion  is  sudden,  and  who  has  been 
sobered  in  the  very  height  of  his  madness,  must 
have  been  vouchsafed  a  Divine  revelation  and 
teaching,  and  so  have  at  once  arrived  at  com- 
plete sanity.  On  this  account  he  is  obliged  to 
relate  his  former  life,  and  to  call  the  Galatians  as 
witnesses  of  past  events.  That  the  Only-Begotten 
Son  of  God  had  Himself  from  heaven  vouchsafed 
to  call  me,  says  he,  you  who  were  not  present, 
could  not  know,  but  that  I  was  a  persecutor 
you  do  know.  For  my  violence  even  reached 
your  ears,  and  the  distance  between  Palestine 
and  Galatia  is  so  great,  that  the  report  would 
not  have  extended  thither,  had  not  my  acts 
exceeded  all  bounds  and  endurance.  Where- 
fore he  says, 

Ver.  13.  "  For1  ye  have  heard  of  my  man- 
ner of  life  in  time  past  in  the  Jews'  religion, 
how  that  beyond  measure  I  persecuted  the 
Church  of  God,  and  made  havoc  of  it." 

Observe  how  he  shrinks  not  from  aggravating 
each  point;  not  saying  simply  that  he  "perse- 
cuted "  but  "  beyond  measure,1 '  and  not  only 
"  persecuted  "  but  "  made  havoc  of  it,"  which 
signifies  an  attempt  to  extinguish,  to  pull  down, 
to  destroy,  to  annihilate,  the  Church. 

Ver.  14.  "And  I  advanced  in  the  Jews' 
religion  beyond  many  of  mine  own  age  among 
my  countrymen,  being  more  exceedingly  zealous 
for  the  traditions  of  my  fathers." 

To  obviate  the  notion  that  his  persecution 
arose  from  passion,  vain-glory,  or  enmity,  he 
shows  that  he  was  actuated  by  zeal,  not  indeed 
"according  to  knowledge,"  (Rom.  x:  2.)  still 
by  a  zealous  admiration  of  the  traditions  of  his 
fathers.  This  is  his  argument ; 2 — if  my  efforts 
against  the  Church  sprung  not  from  human 
motives,  but  from  religious  though  mistaken 
zeal,  why  should  I  be  actuated  by  vain-glory, 
now  that  I  am  contending  for  the  Church,  and 
have  embraced  the  truth  ?  If  it  was  not  this 
motive,  but  a  godly  zeal,  which  possessed  me 
when  I  was  in  error,  much  more  now  that  I 
have  come,  to  know  the  truth,  ought  I  to  be  free 
from  such  a  suspicion.  As  soon  as  I  passed 
over  to  the  doctrines  of  the  Church  I  shook  off 
my  Jewish  prejudices,  manifesting  on  that  side  a 
zeal  still  more  ardent ;  and  this  is  a  proof  that 

1  ["He  begins  here  the  historical proof  'that  he  was  indebted  for 
his  gospel  to  the  revelation  he  had  mentioned." — Meyer. 

"My  early  education  was  such  that  no  human  agency  could  have 

ired  a 


v-     -  _  r o .sustained 

by  the  context.  It  is  not  a  proof  of  his  sincerity  that  he  is  addu- 
cing ;  he  is  continuing  and  completing  the  statement  that  his  for- 
mer manner  of  life  was  proof  that  he  could  not  have  received  the 
Gospel  from  man. — G.  A.) 


my  conversion  is  sincere,  and  that  the  zeal 
which  possesses  me  is  from  above.  What  other 
inducement  could  I  have  to  make  such  a  change, 
and  to  barter  honor  for  contempt,  repose  for 
peril,  security  for  distress?  none  surely  but  the 
love  of  truth. 

Ver.  15,  16.  "But  when  it  was  the  good 
pleasure  of  God,  Who  separated  me,  even  from 
my  mother's  womb,  and  called  me  through  His 
grace,  to  reveal  His  Son  in  me,  that  I  might 
preach  Him  among  the  Gentiles,  immediately  I 
conferred  not  with  flesh  and  blood." 

Here  his  object  is  to  show,  that  it  was  by  some 
secret  providence  that  he  was  left  for  a  time  to 
himself.  For  if  he  was  set  apart  from  his  moth- 
er's womb  to  be  an  Apostle  and  to  be  called  to 
that  ministry,  yet  was  not  actually  called  till 
that  juncture,  which  summons  he  instantly 
obeyed,  it  is  evident  that  God  had  some  hidden 
reason  for  this  delay.  What  this  purpose  was, 
you  are  perhaps  eager  to  learn  from  me,  and 
primarily,  why  he  was  not  called  with  the  twelve. 
But  in  order  not  to  protract  this  discourse  by 
digressing  from  that  which  is  more  pressing,  I 
must  entreat  your  love  not  to  require  all  things 
from  me,  but  to  search  for  it  by  yourselves,  and 
to  beg  of  God  to  reveal  it  to  you.  Moreover  I 
partly  discussed  this  subject  when  I  discoursed 
before  you  on  the  change  of  his  name  from  Saul 
to  Paul ;  which,  if  you  have  forgotten,  you  will 
fully  gather  from  a  perusal  of  that  volume.8  At 
present  let  us  pursue  the  thread  of  our  discourse, 
and  consider  the  proof  he  now  adduces  that  no 
natural  event  had  befallen  him, — that  God  Him- 
self had  providentially  ordered  the  occurrence. 

"  And  called  me  through  His  grace." 

God  indeed  says  that  He  called  him  on 
account  of  his  excellent  capacity,  as  He  said  to 
Ananias,  "  for  he  is  a  chosen  vessel  unto  Me, 
to  bear  my  name  before  the  Gentiles,  and  kings," 
(Acts  ix:  15 . )  that  is  to  say,  capable  of  service,  and 
the  accomplishment  of  great  deeds.  God  gives 
this  as  the  reason  for  his  call.  But  he  himself  every- 
where ascribes  it  to  grace,  and  to  God's  inexpress- 
ible mercy,  as  in  the  words,  * '  Howbeit  for  this 
cause  I  obtained  mercy,"  not  that  I  was  sufficient 
or  even  serviceable,  but "  that  in  me  as  chief  might 
Jesus  Christ  show  forth  all  His  long-suffering,  for 
an  ensample  of  them  which  should  hereafter  be- 
lieve on  Him  unto  eternal  life."  (1  Tim.  i :  16.) 
Behold  his  overflowing  humility;  I  obtained 
mercy,  says  he,  that  no  one  might  despair,  when 
the  worst  of  men  had  shared  His  bounty.  For 
this  is  the  force  of  the  words,  "that  He  might 
show  forth  all  His  long-suffering  for  an  ensample 
of  them  which  should  hereafter  believe  on 
Him." 

"  To  reveal  His  Son4  in  me." 


» [Vid. 
«["In 


trapica, 


Horn,  de  Mut.  Norn.  t.  Hi.  p.  98.  Ed.  Ben.— G.  A.] 
his  pre-Christian  blindness  Paul  had  known  Christ  jtarA 
2  Cor.  v  :  16."— Meyer.— G.  A.] 


Chapter  I.] 


COMMENTARY  ON  GALATIANS. 


ii 


Christ  says  in  another  place,  "  No  one  know- 
cth  who.  the  Son  is,  save  the  Father ;  and  who 
the  Father  is,  save  the  Son,  and  he  to  whomso- 
ever the  Son  willeth  to  reveal  Him."  (Luke  x: 
22.)  You  observe  that  the  Father  reveals  the 
Son,  and  the  Son  the  Father ;  so  it  is  as  to  Their 
glory,  the  Son  glorifies  the  Father,  and  the 
Father  the  Son;  " glorify  Thy  Son,  that  the 
Son  may  glorify  Thee,"  and,  "  as  I  have  glori- 
fied Thee."  (John  xvii :  1,4.)  But  why  does  he 
say,  "to  reveal  His  Son  in  me,"  and  not  "to 
me?"  it  is  to  signify,  that  he  had  not  only  been 
instructed  in  the  faith  by  words,  but  that  he  was 
richly  endowed  with  the  Spirit ;  — that  the  rev- 
elation had  enlightened  his  whole  soul,  and  that 
he  had  Christ  speaking  within  him.1 
"  That  I  might  preach  Him  among  the  Gentiles. ' ' 

For  not  only  his  faith,  but  his  election  to  the 
Apostolic  office  proceeded  from  God.  The 
object,  says  he,  of  His  thus  specially  revealing 
Himself  to  me,  was  not  only  that  I  might  myself 
behold  Him,  but  that  I  might  also  manifest  Him 
to  others.  And  he  says  not  merely,  "  others," 
but,  "that  I  might  preach  Him  among  the 
Gentiles,"  thus  touching  beforehand  on  that 
great  ground  of  his  defence  which  lay  in  the 
respective  characters  of  the  disciples ;  for  it  was 
necessary  to  preach  differently  to  the  Jews  and  to 
the  heathen. 

"  Immediately  I  conferred  not  with  flesh  and 
blood." 

Here  he  alludes  to  the  Apostles,  naming  them 
after  their  physical  nature;  however,  that  he 
may  have  meant  to  include  all  mankind,  I  shall 
not  deny.2 

Vex.  17.  "  Neither  went  I  up  to  Jerusalem  to 
them  which  were  Apostles  before  me." 

These  words  weighed  by  themselves  seem  to 
breath  an  arrogant  spirit,  and  to  be  foreign  to 
the  Apostolic  temper.  For  to  give  one's  suffrage 
for  one's  self,  and  to  admit  no  man  to  share 
one's  counsel,  is  a  sign  of  folly.  It  is  said, 
"Seest  thou  a  man  wise  in  his  own  conceit? 
there  is  more  hope  of  a  fool  than  of  him;" 
(Prov.  xxvi:  12.)  and,  "Woe  unto  them  that 
are  wise  in  their  own  eyes,  and  prudent  in  their 
own  sight !  "  (Isa.  v:  21.)  and  Paul  himself  in 
another  place,  "  Be  not  wise  in  your  own  con- 
ceits." (Rom.  xii :  16.)  Surely  one  who  had  been 
thus  taught,  and  had  thus  admonished  others, 
would  not  fall  into  such  an  error,  even  were  he 
an  ordinary  man  ;  much  less  then  Paul  himself. 
Nevertheless,  as  I  said,  this  expression  nakedly 
considered  may  easily  prove  a  snare  and  offence 
to  many  hearers.  But  if  the  cause  of  it  is  sub- 
joined, all  will  applaud  and  admire  the  speaker. 

1  ["  Er  ifioi  means  *  in  my  mind,'  '  in  my  consciousness.'  2  Cor. 
i»:  />,"  in  opposition  to  Light  foot  who  says,  "  *  In  me  '  means,  as 
the  context  shows,  not  a  revelation  made  inwardly  to  himself,  but 
through  him  to  others."— G.  A.] 

*["  Flesh  and  blood  "  is  twice  used  elsewhere  (Mat.  16 :  ij  and 
Epb-  6 :  la.)  to  denote  "  weak  human  nature,"  "  feeble  man." — G.  A.] 


This  then  let  us  do ;  for  it  is  not  the  right 
course  to  weigh  the  mere  words,  nor  examine 
the  language  by  itself,  as  many  errors  will  be 
the  consequence,  but  to  attend  to  the  intention 
of  the  writer.  And  unless  we  pursue  this  method 
in  our  own  discourses,  and  examine  into  the 
mind  of  the  speaker,  we  shall  make  many  ene- 
mies, and  every  thing  will  be  thrown  into  dis- 
order. Nor  is  this  confined  to  words,  but  the 
same  result  will  follow,  if  this  rule  is  not  observed 
in  actions.  For  surgeons  often  cut  and  break 
certain  of  the  bones;  so  do  robbers;  yet  it 
would  be  miserable  indeed  not  to  be  able  to  dis- 
tinguish one  from  the  other.  Again,  homicides 
and  martyrs,  when  tortured,  suffer  the  same 
pangs,  yet  is  the  difference  between  them  great. 
Unless  we  attend  to  this  rule,  we  shall  not  be 
able  to  discriminate  in  these  matters  ;  but  shall 
call  Elijah  and  Samuel  and  Phineas  homicides, 
and  Abraham  a  son-slayer ;  that  is,  if  we  go 
about  to  scrutinize  the  bare  facts,  without  taking 
into  account  the  intention  of  the  agents.  Let 
us  then  inquire  into  the  intention  of  Paul  in 
thus  writing,  let  us  consider  his  scope,  and  general 
deportment  towards  the  Apostles,  that  we  may 
arrive  at  his  present  meaning.  Neither  form- 
erly, nor  in  this  case,  did  he  speak  with  a  view 
of  disparaging  the  Apostles  or  of  extolling  him- 
self, (how  so?  when  he  included  himself  under 
his  anathema?)  but  always  in  order  to  guard 
the  integrity  of  the  Gospel.  Since  the  troublers 
of  the  Church  said  that  they  ought  to  obey  the 
Apostles  who  suffered  these  observances,  and 
not  Paul  who  forbade  them,  and  hence  the 
Judaizing  heresy  had  gradually  crept  in,  it  was 
necessary  for  him  manfully  to  resist  them,  from 
a  desire  of  repressing  the  arrogance  of  those  who 
improperly  exalted  themselves,  and  not  of  speak- 
ing ill  of  the  Apostles.  And  therefore  he  says, 
"I  conferred  not  with  flesh  and  blood  ;  "  for  it 
would  have  been  extremely  absurd  for  one  who 
had  been  taught  by  God,  afterwards  to  refer 
himself  to  men.  For  it  is  right  that  he  who 
learns  from  men  should  in  turn  take  men  as  his 
counsellors.  But  he  to  whom  that  divine  and 
blessed  voice  had  been  vouchsafed,  and  who 
had  been  fully  instructed  by  Him  that  possesses 
all  the  treasures  of  wisdom,  wherefore  should  he 
afterwards  confer  with  men  ?  It  were  meet  that 
he  should  teach,  not  be  taught  by  them. 
Therefore  he  thus  spoke,  not  arrogantly,  but  to 
exhibit  the  dignity  of  his  own  commission. 
"Neither  went  I  up,"  says  he,  "to  Jerusalem 
I  to  them  which  were  Apostles  before  me."  Be- 
I  cause  they  were  continually  repeayng  that  the 
Apostles  were  before  him,  and  were  called 
before  him,  he  says,  "  I  went  not  up  to  them." 
Had  it  been  needful  for  him  to  communicate 
with  them,  He,  who  revealed  to  him  his  com- 
mission, would  have  given  him  this  injunction. 


12 


WORKS  OF  ST.  CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Chapter  L 


Is  it  true,  however,  that  he  did  not  go  up 
thither?1  nay,  he  went  up,  and  not  merely  so, 
but  in  order  to  learn  somewhat  of  them.  When  a 
question  arose  on  our  present  subject  in  the  city 
of  Antioch,  in  the  Church  which  had  from  the 
beginning  shown  so  much  zeal,  and  it  was  dis- 
cussed whether  the  Gentile  believers  ought  to  be 
circumcised, or  were  under  no  necessity  to  undergo 
the  rite,  this  very  Paul  himself  and  Silas2  went 
up.  How  is  it  then  that  he  says,  I  went  not  up, 
nor  conferred  ?  First,  because  he  went  not  up 
of  his  own  accord,  but  was  sent  by  others; 
next,  because  he  came  not  to  learn,  but  to  bring 
others  over.  For  he  *was  from  the  first  of  that 
opinion,  which  the  Apostles  subsequently  rati- 
fied, that  circumcision  was  unnecessary.  But  when 
these  persons  deemed  him  unworthy  of  credit  and 
applied  to  those  at  Jerusalem  he  went  up  not  to 
be  farther  instructed,  but  to  convince  the  gain- 
saver^  that  those  at  Jerusalem  agreed  with  him. 
Thus  he  perceived  from  the  first  the  fitting  line 
of  conduct,  and  needed  no  teacher,  but,  pri- 
marily and  before  any  discussion,  maintained 
without  wavering  what  the  Apostles,  after  much 
discussion,  (Actsxv:  2,7.)  subsequently  ratified. 
This  Luke  shows  by  his  own  account,  that  Paul 
argued  much  at  length  with  them  on  this  subject 
before  he  went  to  Jerusalem.  But  since  the  breth- 
ren chose  to  be  informed  on  this  subject,  by  those 
at  Jerusalem,  he  went  up  on  their  own  account, 
not  on  his  own.  And  his  expression,  "  I  went 
not  up,"  signifies  that  he  neither  went  at  the 
outset  of  his  teaching,  nor  for  the  purpose  of 
being  instructed.  Both  are  implied  by  the 
phrase,  "  Immediately  I  conferred  not  with  flesh 
and  blood. ' '  He  says  not, ' '  I  conferred/ '  merely, 
but,  "immediately ;  "  and  his  subsequent  jour- 
ney was  not  to  gain  any  additional  instruction. 
Ver.  17.  "  But  I  went  away  into  Arabia." 
Behold  a  fervent  soul !  he  longed  to  occupy 
regions  not  yet  tilled,  but  lying  in  a  wild  state. 
Had  he  remained  with  the  Apostles,  as  he  had 
nothing  to  learn,  his  preaching  would  have 
been  straitened,  for  it  behooved  them  to  spread 
the  word  every  where.  Thus  this  blessed  man, 
fervent  in  spirit,  straightway  undertook  to  teach 
wild  barbarians,8  choosing  a  life  full  of  battle 
and  labor.  Having  said,  "  I  went  into  Arabia," 
he  adds,  "  and  again  I  returned  unto  Damas- 
cus."    Here   observe   his  humility;   he  speaks 


1  [Paul  here  simply  means  he  did  not  go  to  Jerusalem  before  he 
began  preaching.— -G.  A.] 

•Of  those  who  were  sent  with  St.  Paul  from  Antioch  to  Jerusa- 
lem, Barnabas  is  the  only  one  named  in  Acts  xv  :  a,  and  it  would 
rather  seem  from  Ver.  22.  that  Silas  was  then  at  Jerusalem,  and  did 
not  accompany  £t.  Paul  till  his  return  from  thence. 

*  ["  This  journey  is  to  be  looked  upon  not  as  having  for  its  object 
a  quiet  preparation  .but  as  a  first  experiment  of  extraneous  ministry." 
— Meyer.  Farrar,  Lift  and  H'ork'of  /'a*/.  Ch.  xi.  takes  the  oppo- 
site view  and  says.  '•  No  one,  I  think, who  reads  this  passage  atten- 
tively can  deny  that  it  gives  the  impression  of  an  intentional  retire- 
ment from  human  intercourse."  So  also  Schaff,  who  says  it  was  a 
sort  of  substitute  for  the  three  years  intercourse  with  Jesus  enjoyed 
by  the  other  Apostles.     A/.  Ck.  236. — G.  A.J 


not  of  his  successes,  nor  of  whom  or  of  how 
many  he  instructed.  Yet  such  was  his  zeal 
immediately  on  his  baptism,  that  he  confounded 
the  Jews,  and  so  exasperated  them,  that  they 
and  the  Greeks  lay  in  wait  for  him  with  a  view 
to  kill  him.  This  would  not  have  been  the 
case,  had  he  not  greatly  added  to  the  numbers 
of  the  faithful ;  since  they  were  vanquished  in 
doctrine,  they  had  recourse  to  murder,  which 
was  a  manifest  sign  of  Paul's  superiority.  But 
Christ  suffered  him  not  to  be  put  to  death,  pre- 
serving him  for  his  mission.  Of  these  successes, 
however,  he  says  nothing,  and  so  in  all  his  dis- 
courses, his  motive  is  not  ambition,  nor  to  be 
honored  more  highly  than  the  Apostles,  nor 
because  he  is  mortified  at  being  lightly  esteemed, 
but  it  is  a  fear  lest  any  detriment  should  accrue 
to  his  mission.  For  he  calls  himself, c '  one  born 
out  of  due  time,"  and,  "  the  first  of  sinners," 
and  "the  last  of  the  Apostles,"  and,  "not 
meet  to  be  called  an  Apostle."  And  this  he 
said,  who  had  labored  more  than  all  of  them ; 
which  is  real  humility ;  for  he  who,  conscious 
of  no  excellence,  speaks  humbly  of  himself,  is 
candid  but  not  humble ;  but  to  say  so  after  such 
trophies,  is  to  be  practised  in  self-control. 

Ver.  17."  And  again  I  returned  unto  Damas- 
cus." 

But  what  great  things  did  he  not  probably 
achieve  in  this  city?  for  he  telis  us  that  the 
governor  under  Aretas  the  king  set  guards  about 
the  whole  of  it,  hoping  to  entrap  this  blessed 
man.  Which  is  a  proof  of  the  strongest  kind 
that  he  was  violently  persecuted  by  the  Jews. 
Here,  however,  he  says  nothing  of  this,  but 
mentioning  his  arrival  and  departure  is  silent 
concerning  the  events  which  there  occurred, 
nor  would  he  have  mentioned  them  in  the  place 
I  have  referred  to,  (2  Cor.  xi:  32.)  had  not  cir- 
cumstances required  their  narration. 

Ver.  18.  "  Then  after  three  years  I  went  up 
to  Jerusalem  4  to  visit  Cephas." 

What  can  be  more  lowly  than  such  a  soul  ? 
After  such  successes,  wanting  nothing  of  Peter, 
not  even  his  assent,  but  being  of  equal  dignity 
with  him,  (for  at  present  I  will  say  no  more,)  he 
comes  to  him  as  his  elder  and  superior.  And 
the  only  object  of  this  journey  was  to  visit 
Peter  ;  thus  he  pays  due  respect  to  the  Apostles, 
and  esteems  himself  not  only  not  their  better 
but  not  their  equal.  Which  is  plain  from  this 
journey,  for  Paul  was  induced  to  visit  Peter  by 
the  same  feeling  from  which  many  of  our  breth- 
ren sojourn  with  holy  men  :  or  rather  by  a  hum- 
bler feeling  for  they  do  so  for  their  own  benefit, 
but  this  blessed  man,  not  for  his  own  instruc- 
tion or  correction,  but  merely  for  the  sake  of 


*  [First  visit  to  Jerusalem,  Acts  ix:26.  For  a  reconciliation  of 
the  two  accounts  of  this  visit  see  Handy  Com.  on  Gal.  Excursus 
A  (by  Sanday).—  G.A.] 


Chapter  I.J 


COMMENTARY  ON  GALATIANS. 


13 


beholding  and  honoring  Peter  by  his  presence. 
He  says,  "  to  visit  Peter ; "  he  does  not  say  to 
see,  (I8ei»9)  but  to  visit  and  survey,  (iffrop^fracy) 
a  word  which  those,  who  seek  to  become 
acquainted  with  great  and  splendid  cities,  apply 
to  themselves.  Worthy  of  such  trouble  did  he 
consider  the  very  sight  of  Peter;  and  this 
appears  from  the  Acts  of  the  Apostles  also. 
(Acts  xxi:  17, 18  etc. )  For  on  his  arrival  at  Jeru- 
salem, on  another  occasion,  after  having  con- 
verted many  Gentiles,  and,  with  labors  far  sur- 
passing the  rest,  reformed  and  brought  to 
Christ  Pamphylia,  Lycaonia,  Cilicia,  and  all 
nations  in  that  quarter  of  the  world,  he  first 
addresses  himself  with  great  humility  to  James, 
as  to  his  elder  and  superior.  Next  he  submits 
to  his  counsel,  and  that  counsel  contrary  to  this 
Epistle.  *'  Thou  seest,  brother,  how  many 
thousands  there  are  among  the  Jews  of  them 
which  have  believed ;  therefore  shave  thy  head, 
and  purify  thyself."  (Acts  xxi :  20  f.)  Accord- 
ingly he  shaved  his  head,  and  observed  all  the 
Jewish  ceremonies ;  for  where  the  Gospel  was 
not  affected,  he  was  the  humblest  of  all  men. 
But  where  by  such  humility  he  saw  any  injured, 
he  gave  up  that  undue  exercise  of  it,  for  that 
was  no  longer  to  be  humble  but  to  outrage  and 
destroy  the  disciples. 

Ver.  18.  "  And  tarried  with  him  fifteen  days." 

To  take  a  journey  on  account  of  him  was  a 
mark  of  respect ;  but  to  remain  so  many  days, 
of  friendship  and  the  most  earnest  affection.1 

Ver.  19.  "  But  other  of  the  Apostles  saw  I 
none,  save  James,2  the  Lord's  brother." 

See  what  great  friends  he  was  with  Peter 
especially ;  on  his  account  he  left  his  home, 
and  with  him  he  tarried.  This  I  frequently 
repeat,  and  desire  you  to  remember,  that  no 
one,  when  he  hears  what  this  Apostle  seems 
to  have  spoken  against  Peter,  may  conceive  a 
suspicion  of  him.  He  premises  this,  that  when 
he  says,  "I  resisted  Peter,"  no  one  may  sup- 
pose that  these  words  imply  enmity  and  con- 
tention ;  for  he  honored  and  loved  his  person 
more  than  all  and  took  this  journey  for  his  sake 
only,  not  for  any  of  the  others.  "  But  other  of 
the  Apostles  saw  I  none,  save  James."  "I 
saw  him  merely,  I  did  not  learn  from  him,"  he 
means.  But  observe  how  honorably  he  men- 
tions him,  he  says  not  "James"  merely,  but 
adds  this  illustrious  title,  so  free  ispe  from  all 
envy.  Had  he  only  wished  to  point  out  whom 
he  meant,  he  might  have  shown  this  by  another 

1  f  And  yet  it  was  not  long  enough  to  have  allowed  his  receiving 
his  doctrine  and  Gospel  from  Peter.  Besides  he  had  already  been 
preaching  three  years. — G.  A.] 

'"Thus  this  James  is  distinguished  from  the  circle  of  the 
twtlve  (1  Cor.  xv.  8.)  to  which  Peter  belonged  but  included  in  the 
number  of  Apostles  in  the  wider  sense,  which  explains  the  merely 
supplementary  mention  of  this  Apostle." — Meyer. 


appellation,  and  called  him  the  son  of  Cleo- 
phas,  as  the  Evangelist  does.  3  But  as  he  con- 
sidered that  he  had  a  share  in  the  august  titles 
of  the  Apostles,  he  exalts  himself  by  honoring 
James;  and  this  he  does  by  calling  him  "  the 
Lord's  brother,"  although  he  was  not  by  birth 
His  brother,  but  only  so  reputed.  Yet  this  did 
not  deter  him  from  giving  the  title ;  and  in 
many  other  instances  he  displays  towards  all 
the  Apostles  that  noble  disposition,  which 
beseemed  him. 

Ver.  20.  "  Now  touching  the  things  which  I 
write  unto  you,  behold,  before  God,  I  lie  not." 

Observe  throughout  the  transparent  humility 
of  this  holy  soul ;  his  earnestness  in  his  own 
vindication  is  as  great  as  if  he  had  to  render  an 
account  of  his  deeds,  and  was  pleading  for  his 
life  in  a  court  of  justice. 

Ver.  21.  "  Then  I  came  into  the  regions  of 
Syria  and  Cilicia."4 

After  his  interview  with  Peter,  he  resumes  his 
preaching  and  the  task  whioh  lay  before  him, 
avoiding  Judaea,  both  because  of  his  mission 
being  to  the  Gentiles,  and  of  his  unwillingness 
to  "build  upon  another  man's  foundation." 
Wherefore  there  was  not  even  a  chance  meeting, 
as  appears  from  what  follows. 

Ver.  22,  23.  "  And  I  was  still  unknown  by 
face  unto  the  Churches  of  Judaea;  but  they 
only  heard  say,  he  that  once  persecuted  us  now 
preacheth  the  faith  of  which  he  once  made 
havoc." 

What  modesty  in  thus  again  mentioning  the 
facts  of  his  persecuting  and  laying  waste  the 
Church,  and  in  thus  making  infamous  his 
former  life,  while  he  passes  over  the  illustrious 
deeds  he  was  about  to  achieve  !  He  might  have 
told,  had  he  wished  it,  all  his  successes,  but  he 
mentions  none  of  these  and  stepping  with  one 
word  over  a  vast  expanse,  he  says  merely,  "  I 
came  into  the  regions  of  Syria  and  Cilicia;" 
and,  "they  had  heard,  that  he,  which  once  per- 
secuted us,  now  preacheth  the  faith  of  which  he 
once  made  havoc."  The  purpose  of  the  words, 
"  I  was  unknown  to  the  Churches  of  Judaea,"  is 
to  show,  that  so  far  from  preaching  to  them  the 
necessity  of  circumcision,  he  was  not  known  to 
them  even  by  sight. 

Ver.  24.   "  And  they  glorified  God  in  me." 

See  here  again  how  accurately  he  observes 
the  rule  of  his  humility  ;  he  says  not,  they 
admired  me,  they  applauded  or  were  astonished 
at  me,  but  ascribes  all  to  Divine  grace  by  the 
words,  "they  glorified  God  in  me." 

■[Compare  John  xix:  25  with  Matt,  xxvii:  56.  But  see  Light  foot's 
learned  and  exhaustive  essay  on  *•  The  Brethren  of  the  Lord,  Com. 
on  ('a/,  pp.  88 — 127,  and  Schaff,  Church  History  I,  272-275. — G.A.I 

*  [Compare  Acts  ix  :  30,  where  Luke  says  the  brethren  took  Paul 
to  Caesarea,  and  thence  despatched  him  to  Tarsus  (in  Cilicia. -G.  A.] 


CHAPTER  II. 


"  Then  after  ihe  space  of  fourteen  years,i  I  went  up 
again  to  Jerusalem  with  Barnabas,  taking  Titus  also 
with  me.     And  I  went  up  by  revelation." 

His  first  journey  was  owing  to  his  desire  to 
visit  Peter,  his  second,  he  says,  arose  from  a 
revelation  of  the  Spirit. 

Ver.  a.  "And  I  laid  before  them  the  Gospel 
which  I  preach  among  the  Gentiles,  but 
privately  before  them  who  were  of  repute,  lest 
by  any  means  I  should  be  running  or  had  run, 

What  is  this,  O  Paul !  thou  who  neither  at 
the  beginning  nor  after  three  years  wouldest 
confer  with  the  Apostles,  dost  thou  now  confer 
with  them,  after  fourteen  years  are  past,  lest 
thou  shouldest  be  running  in  vain  ?  Better  would 
it  have  been  to  have  done  so  at  first,  than  after 
so  many  years  ;  and  why  didst  thou  run  at  all, 
if  not  satisfied  that  thou  wert  not  running  in 
vain  ?  Who  would  be  so  senseless  as  to  preach 
for  so  many  years,  without  being  sure  that  his 
preaching  was  true?  And  what  enhances  the 
difficulty  is,  that  he  says  he  went  up  by  revela- 
tion; this  difficulty,  however,  will  afford  a  solu- 
tion of  the  former  one.  Had  he  gone  up  of  his  own 
accord,  it  would  have  been  most  unreasonable, 
nor  is  it  possible  that  this  blessed  soul  should 
have  fallen  into  such  folly ;  for  it  is  himself  who 
says,  ' '  I  therefore  so  run,  as  not  uncertainly  ;  so 
fight  I,  as  not  beating  the  air."  (i  Cor.  ix:  26.) 
If  therefore  he  runs,  "not  uncertainly,"  how 
can  he  say,  "lest  I  should  be  running,  or  had 
run,  in  vain?"  It  is  evident  from  this,  that  if 
he  had  gone  up  without  a  revelation,  he  would 
have  committed  an  act  of  folly.  But  the  actual 
case  involved  no  such  absurdity  ;  who  shall  dare 


'['■The  Acts  mm! Ion   five 

[i.)-l*  :  13  (Comp.  Cal.  i  ■  18 
journey  to  the  Apoilolic  Cuun 

cil'i""*D   * 

rviH 

K'r', 

,  the 

journey  in  54.  (5.)-iLii  :  i5{Comp.  Ro.  is 

■  Jj. 

The 

nrst   of  these  journeys  cann 

The  wcond  is  excluded  by  ih 

e  chronoligi 

jdiic-rij 

1. 11:  t 

fix 

ai   it    to.-lt    place    during    the 

Paits.,ne   ! 

trot 

Herod'ldeilh,  A.  D   44,11  * 

uld  put  the 

,    Pan] 

lolhe  year  jo,  which  is  much  too  early.     There    is  no 

■t..mi     i-mmey 

K*TV 

fifth 

'Kp-.il,.  i.,i;.il.„i.„..  Eiii-I  aft* 
Ihinkofthc  fourth  jc.mcy* 

took  place 

Apostle-. 

N.it.i 

"we 

ts  Wrr 

abas 

wi-h    him  L-n  thai  journey,  A 

r  hm 

cVn"="ii,n; 

Tl„s.-,..k  [ 

V~: 

r.,/. 

to  still  harbor  this  suspicion,  when  it  was  the 
grace  of  the  Spirit  which  drew  him  ?  On  this 
account  he  added  the  words  "by  revelation," 
lest,  before  the  question  was  solved,  he  should 
be  condemned  of  folly ;  well  knowing  that  it 
was  no  human  occurrence,  but  a  deep  Divine 
Providence  concerning  the  present  and  future. 
What  then  is  the  reason  of  this  journey  of  his? 
As  when  he  went  up  before  from  Antioch  to 
Jerusalem,  it  was  not  for  his  own  sake,  (for  he 
saw  clearly  that  his  duty  was  simply  to  obey  the 
doctrines  of  Christ,)  but  from  a  desire  to  recon- 
cile the  contentious;  so  now  his  object  was  the 
complete  satisfaction  of  his  accusers,  not  any 
wish  of  his  own  to  learn  that  he  had  not  run  in 
vain.  They  conceived  that  Peter  and  John,  of 
whom  they  thought  more  highly  than  of  Paul, 
differed  from  him  in  that  he  ommitted  circum- 
cision in  his  preaching,  while  the  former 
allowed  it,  and  they  believed  that  in  this  he 
acted  unlawfully,  and  was  running  in  vain.  I 
went  up,  says  he,  and  communicated  unto  them 
my  Gospel,  not  that  I  might  learn  aught  myself, 
(as  appears  more  clearb/  further  on,)  but  that  I 
might  convince  these  suspicious  persons  that  I 
do  not  run  in  vain.  The  Spirit  forseeing  this 
contention  had  provided  that  he  should  go  up 
and  make  this  communication. 

Wherefore  he  says  that  he  went  up  by  revela- 
tion, '  and,  taking  Barnabas  and  Titus  as  wit- 
nesses of  his  preaching,  communicated  to  them 
the  Gospel  which  he  preached  to  the  Gentiles, 
that  is,  with  the  omission  of  circumcision. 
"  But  privately  before  them  who  were  of  re- 
pute." What  means  "  privately?"  Rather,  he 
who  wishes  to  reform  doctrines  held  in  com- 
mon, proposes  them,  not  privately,  but  before 
alt  in  common ;  but  Paul  did  this  privately,  for 
his  object  was,  not  to  learn  or  reform  any  thing, 
but  to  cut  off  the  grounds  of  those  who  would 
fain  deceive.  All  at  Jerusalem  were  offended, 
if  the  law  was  transgressed,  or  the  use  of  circum- 
cision forbidden  ;  as  James  says,  "  Thou  seest, 
brother,  how  many  thousands  there  are  among 
the  Jews  of  them  which  have  believed  ;  and  they 

wnl  by  the  Church  ...  An. inch.  The  revolution  rjiher  prompted 
orcourtrmedlhedeciiionof  the  Church."— Light  fuW.—G.  A.l 


Chapter  IL] 


COMMENTARY  ON  GALATIANS. 


15 


are  informed  of  thee,  that  thou  teachest  to  for- 
sake the  law."  (Actsxxi:  20,  et  seq.)  Since 
then  they  were  offended  he  did  not  condescend  to 
come  forward  publicly  and  declare  what  his 
preaching  was,  but  he  conferred  privately  with 
those  who  were  of  reputation  before  Barnabas 
and  Titus,  that  they  might  credibly  testify  to 
his  accusers,  l  that  the  Apostles  found  no  dis- 
crepancy in  his  preaching,  but  confirmed  it. 
The  expression,  "those  that  were  of  repute/' 
(roi$  dozouatv)  does  not  impugn  the  reality  of  their 
greatness ;  for  he  says  of  himself,  '  *  And  I  also 
seem  (doxw)  to  have  the  Spirit  of  God,M  there- 
by not  denying  the  fact,  but  stating  it  modestly. 
And  here  the  phrase  implies  his  own  assent  to 
the  common  opinion. 

Ver.  3.  "  But  not  even  Titus,  who  was  with 
me,  being  a  Greek,  2  was  compelled  to  be  cir- 
cumcised.' ' 

What  means,  "being  a  Greek?"  Of  Greek 
extraction,  and  not  circumcised ;  for  not  only 
did  I  so  preach  but  Titus  so  acted,  nor  did  the 
Apostles  compel  him  to  be  circumcised.  A 
plain  proof  this  that  the  Apostles  did  not  con- 
demn Paul's  doctrine  or  his  practice.  Nay 
more,  even  the  urgent  representations  of  the 
adverse  party,  who  were  aware  of  these  facts, 
did  not  oblige  the  Apostles  to  enjoin  circumcis- 
ion, as  appears  by  his  own  words, — 

Ver.  4.  "  And  that  because  of  the  false 
brethren,  privily  brought  in." 

Here  arises  a  very  important  question,  Who 
were  these  false  brethren  ?  8  If  the  Apostles 
permitted  circumcision  at  Jerusalem,  why  are 
those  who  enjoined  it,  in  acccordance  with  the 
Apostolic  sentence,  to  be  called  false  brethren  ? 
First;  because  there  is  a  difference  between 
commanding  an  act  to  be  done,  and  allowing  it 
after  it  is  done.  He  who  enjoins  an  act,  does 
it  with  zeal  as  necessary,  and  of  primary  impor- 
tance; but  he  who,  without  himself  command- 
ing it,  alloweth  another  to  do  it  who  wisnes 
yields  not  from  a  sense  of  its  being  necessary 
but  in  order  to  subserve  some  purpose.  We 
have  a  similar  instance,  in  Paul's  Epistle 
to  the  Corinthians,  in  his  command  to 
husbands  and  wives  to  come  together  again.  To 
which,  that  he  might  not  be  thought  to  be  legis- 
lating for  them,  he  subjoins,  "  But  this  I  say  by 
way  of  permission,  not  of  commandment." 
(r  Cor.  vii :  5.)     For  this  was  not  a  judgment 

1  [That  is,  that  Barnabas  and  Titus  as  witnesses  of  the  proceed- 
ing* might  testify  to  the  Judaizing  teachers  everywhere,  &C.-G.  A.] 

*  [Being  "  a  Greek  : "  Light  foot  says  this  is  a  "causal"  partici- 
pial clause  giving  the  "reason"  why  Titus  was  not  circumcised  ; 
iwr««i*hewas  a  Greek  and  not  a  Tew  or  part  Jew  as  Timothy  was. 
Schaff  makes  it  a  "concessive"  clause  ;  although  he  was  a  Greek, 
that  w,  a  heathen.  Farrar  in  Life  and  Work  of  />aw/(233-6)claims 
that  Titus  tvas  circumcised  but  not  compelled  to  be.  This  how- 
ever cannot  be  held  in  view  of  the  context  and  the  position  of  the 
word*  in  the  sentence. — G.  A.] 

'("These  were  formerly  Pharisees  (Acts  xv :  5.)  and  were  still 
>o  in  spirit  although  they  professed  Christianity  and  were  bap- 
toed."    Schaff  in /ty-  Com.— G.A.] 


authoritatively  given  butpn  indulgence  to  their  in- 
continence ;  as  he  says,  "  for  your  incontinency." 
Would  you  know  Paul's  sentence  in  this  matter  ? 
hear  his  words,  ' 4 1  would  that  all  men  were  even 
as  I  myself," ( 1  Cor.  vii :  7.)  in  continence.  And 
so  here,  the  Apostles  made  this  concession,  not  as 
vindicating  the  law,  but  as  condescending  to  the 
infirmities  of  Judaism.  Had  they  been  vindica- 
ting the  law,  they  would  not  have  preached  to  the 
Jews  in  one  way,  and  to  the  Gentiles  in  another. 
Had  the  observance  been  necessary  for  unbe- 
lievers, then  indeed  it  would  plainly  have  like- 
wise been  necessary  for  all  the  faithful.  But  by 
their  decision  not  to  harass  the  Gentiles  on  this 
point,  they  showed  that  they  permitted  it  by 
way  of  condescension  to  the  Jews.  Whereas 
the  purpose  of  the  false  brethren  was  to  cast 
them  out  of  grace,  and  reduce  them  under  the 
yoke  of  slavery  again.  This  is  the  first  differ- 
ence, and  a  very  wide  one.  The  second  is, 
that  the  Apostles  so  acted  in  Judaea,  where  the 
Law  was  in  force,  but  the  false  brethren,  every 
where,  for  all  the  Galatians  were  influenced  by 
them.  Whence  it  appears  that  their  intention 
was,  not  to  build  up,  but  entirely  to  pull  down 
the  Gospel,  and  that  the  thing  was  permitted 
by  the  Apostles  on  one  ground  and  zealously 
practiced  by  the    false   brethren   on    another. 

Ver.  4.  "Who  came  in  privily  to  spy  out 
our  liberty,  which  we  have  in  Christ  Jesus,  that 
they  might  bring  us  into  bondage." 

He  points  out  their  hostility  by  calling  them 
spies  ;  for  the  sole  object  of  a  spy  is  to  obtain 
for  himself  facilities  of  devastation  and  destruc- 
tion, by  becoming  acquainted  with  his  adver- 
sary's position.  And  this  is  what  those  did, 
who  wished  to  bring  the  disciples  back  to  their 
old  servitude.  Hence  too  appears  how  very 
contrary  their  purpose  was  to  that  of  the  Apos- 
tles; the  latter  made  concessions  that  they 
might  gradually  extricate  them  from  their  servi- 
tude, but  the  former  plotted  to  subject  them  to 
one  more  severe.  Therefore  they  looked  round 
and  observed  accurately  and  made  themselves 
busybodies  to  find  out  who  were  uncircumcised ; 
as  Paul  says,  "they  came  in  privily  to  spy  out 
our  liberty,"  thus  pointing  out  their  machina- 
tions not  only  by  the  term  "spies,"  but  by  this 
expression  of  a  furtive  entrance  and  creeping 
in. 

Ver.  5.  "To  whom  we  gave  place  in  the 
way  of  subjection,  no,  not  for  an  hour."4 

Observe  the  force  and  emphasis  of  the  phrase ; 
he  says  not,  "  by  argument,"  but,  "by  subjec- 
tion, "for  their  object  was  not  to  teach  good  doc- 
trine,   but    to   subjugate    and    enslave    them. 

4  [*'  Had  we  consented  to  the  suggestion  to  circumcise  Titus,  we 
should  thereby  have  yielded  to  the  false  brethren  standing  in  the 
background,  who  declared  the  circumcision  of  Gentile  Christians 
to  be  necessary  (Acts  xv :  5.)  ;  but  this  did  not  at  all  take  place."— 
Meyer.— G.  A] 


i6 


WORKS  OF  ST.  CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Chapter  II. 


Wherefore,  says  he,  we  yielded  to  the  Apostles, 
but  not  to  these. 

Ver.  5.  "That  the  truth  of  the  Gospel  might 
continue  with  you."  * 

That  we  may  confirm,  says  he,  by  our  deeds 
what  we  have  already  declared  by  words, — 
namely,  that  the  "  old  things  are  passed  away, 
behold  they  are  become  new;  "  and  that  "if 
any  man  is  in  Christ  he  is  a  new  creature  ;"  (2 
Cor.  v:  17.)  and  that  "if  ye  receive  circum- 
cision, Christ  will  profit  you  nothing.' '  (Gal.  v: 
2.)  In  maintaining  this  truth  we  gave  place 
not  even  for  an  hour.  Then,  as  he  was  directly 
met  by  the  conduct  of  the  Apostles,  and  the 
reason  of  their  enjoining  the  rite  would  proba- 
bly be  asked,  he  proceeds  to  solve  this  objection. 
This  he  does  with  great  skill, for  he  does  not  give 
the  actual  reason,  which  was,  that  the  Apostles 
acted  by  way  of  condescension  and  in  the  use  of 
a  scheme,  (dtxovo/ifa)  as  it  were ;  for  otherwise 
his  hearers  would  have  been  injured.  For  those, 
who  are  to  derive  benefit  from  a  scheme  should 
be  unacquainted  with  the  design  of  it ;  all  will 
be  undone,  if  this  appears.  Wherefore,  he  who 
is  to  take  part  in  it  should  know  the  drift  of  it ; 
those  who  are  to  benefit  by  it  should  not.  To 
make  my  meaning  more  evident,  I  will  take  an 
example  from  our  present  subject.  The  blessed 
Paul  himself,  who  meant  to  abrogate  circumcis- 
ion, when  he  was  about  to  send  Timothy  to 
teach  the  Jews,  first  circumcised  him  and  so 
sent  him.  This  he  did,  that  his  hearers  might 
the  more  readily  receive  him ;  he  began  by  cir- 
cumcising, that  in  the  end  he  might  abolish  it. 
But  this  reason  he  imparted  to  Timothy  only, 
and  told  it  not  to  the  disciples.  Had  they 
known  that  the  very  purpose  of  his  circumcision 
was  the  abolition  of  the  rite,  they  would  never 
have  listened  to  his  preaching,  and  the  whole 
benefit  would  have  been  lost.  But  now  their 
ignorance  was  of  the  greatest  use  to  them,  for 
their  idea  that  his  conduct  proceeded  from  a 
regard  to  the  Law,  led  them  to  receive  both  him 
and  his  doctrine  with  kindness  and  courtesy, 
and  having  gradually  received  him,  and  become 
instructed,  they  abandoned  their  old  customs. 
Now  this  would  not  have  happened  had  they 
known  his  reasons  from  the  first ;  for  they  would 
have  turned  away  from  him,  and  being  turned 
away  would  not  have  given  him  a  hearing,  and 
not  hearing,  would  have  continued  in  their  for- 
mer error.  To  prevent  this,  he  did  not  disclose 
his  reasons ;  here  too  he  does  not  explain  the 
occasion  of  the  scheme,  (  olxovo/iia)  but  shapes  his 
discourse  differently ;  thus  : 

Ver.  6.     "  But  from  those  who  were  reputed 


1  ["  In  order  that  by  our  conduct  the  principle  of  Christian  free- 
dom should  not  be  shaken  and  ye  should  not  be  induced  to  deviate 
from  the  truth  of  the  Gospel  by  mixing  it  up  with  Mosaism." — 
Meyer. — G.  A.] 


to  be  somewhat,2  (whatsoever  they  were,  it 
maketh  no  matter  to  me,  God  accepteth  no  man's 
person.)" 

Here  he  not  only  does  not  defend  the  Apos- 
tles, but  even  presses  hard  upon  those  holy  men, 
for  the  benefit  of  the  weak.  His  meaning  is 
this :  although  they  permit  circumcision,  they 
shall  render  an  account  to  God,  for  God  will 
not  accept  their  persons,  because  they  are  great 
and  in  station.  But  he  does  not  speak  so  plainly, 
but  with  caution.  He  says  not,  if  they  vitiate 
their  doctrine,  and  swerve  from  the  appointed 
rule  of  their  preaching,  they  shall  be  judged 
with  the  utmost  rigor,  and.  suffer  punishment ; 
but  he  alludes  to  them  more  reverently,  in  the 
words,  "  of  those  who  were  reputed  to  be  some- 
what, whatsoever  they  were."  He  says  not, 
"  whatsoever  they  'are,'  "  but  "  were,"  show- 
ing that  they  too  had  thenceforth3  ceased  so  to 
preach,  the  doctrine  having  extended  itself  uni- 
versally. The  phrase,  "  whatsoever  they  were," 
implies,  that  if  they  so  preached  they  should 
render  account,  for  they  had  to  justify  themselves 
before  God,  not  before  men.  This  he  said,  not 
as  doubtful  or  ignorant  of  the  rectitude  of  their 
procedure,  but  (as  I  said  before)  from  a  sense 
of  the  expediency  of  so  forming  his  discourse. 
Then,  that  he  may  not  seem  to  take  the  opposite 
side  and  to  accuse  them,  and  so  create  a  suspi- 
cion of  their  disagreement,  he  straightway  sub- 
joins this  correction :  "for  those  who  were  repu- 
ted to  be  somewhat,  in  conference  imparted 
nothing  to  me.' '  This  is  his  meaning;  What 
you  may  say,  I  know  not ;  this  I  know  well, 
that  the  Apostles  did  not  oppose  me,  but  our 
sentiments  conspired  and  accorded.  This  ap- 
pears from  his  expression,  "  they  gave  me  the 
right  hand  of  fellowship ;  "  but  he  does  not  say 
this  at  present,  but  only  that  they  neither  in- 
formed or  corrected  him  on  any  point,  nor 
added  to  his  knowledge. 

Ver.  6.  "  For  those  who  were  reputed  to  be 
somewhat,  imparted  nothing  to  me:  " 

That  is  to  say,  when  told  of  my  proceedings, 
they  added  nothing,  they  corrected  nothing, 
and  though  aware  that  the  object  of  my  jour- 
ney was  to  communicate  with  them,  that  I  had 
come  by  revelation  of  the  Spirit,  and  that  I  had 
Titus  with  me  who  was  uncircumcised,  they 
neither  circumcised  him,  nor  imparted  to  me 
any  additional  knowledge. 

Ver.  7.  "  But  contrariwise. M 


*  (Tight foot  says,  "The  expression  is  depreciatory  here,  not  in- 
deed of  the  twelve  themselves  but  of  the  extravagant  and  exclus- 
ive claims  set  up  for  them  by  the  Judaizers."  So  also  Dr.  Schaff. 
"  The  addition  of  n  elpcu  and  oirotoi  betrays  a  certain  irritation 
in  reference  to  the  opponents  who  would  not  concede  Paul  an  esti- 
mation given  to  the  original  Apostles." — Meyer. — G.  AJ 

9  ["  It  is  entirely  in  opposition  to  the  context  that  Chrysostom 
Theophylact  and  Jerome  refer  this  to  the  earlier  teaching  of  the 
Apostles,  making  Paul  say  that  whether  at  an  earlier  date  they  had 

I  been  Judaizers  or  not  was  to  him  a  matter  of  indifference."— 

I  Meyer.— G.  A.] 


Chapter  II.] 


COMMENTARY  ON  GALATIANS. 


17 


Some  hold  his  meaning  to  be,  not  only  that 
the  Apostles  did  not  instruct  him,  but  that  they 
were  instructed  by  him.  But  I  would  not  say 
this,  for  what  could  they,  each  of  whom  was 
himself  perfectly  instructed,  have  learnt  from 
him  ?  He  does  not  therefore  intend  this  by  the 
expression,  "  contrariwise,"  but  that  so  far  were 
they  from  blaming,  that  they  praised  him  :  for 
praise  is  the  contrary  of  blame.  Some  would 
probably  here  reply  :  Why  did  not  the  Apostles, 
if  they  praised  your  procedure,  as  the  proper 
consequence  abolish  circumcision  ?  l  Now  to 
assert  that  they  did  abolish  it  Paul  considered 
much  too  bold,  and  inconsistent  with  his  own 
admission.  On  the  other  hand,  to  admit  that 
thev  had  sanctioned  circumcision,  would  neces- 
sarily  expose  him  to  another  objection.  For  it 
would  be  said,  if  the  Apostles  praised  your 
preaching,  yet  sanctioned  circumcision,  they 
were  inconsistent  with  themselves.  What  then 
is  the  solution  ?  is  he  to  say  that  they  acted  thus 
out  of  condescension  to  Judaism?  To  say  this 
would  have  shaken  the  very  foundation  of  the 
economy.  Wherefore^ie  leaves  the  subject  in  sus- 
pense and  uncertainty,  by  the  words,  "but  of 
those  who  were  reputed  to  be  somewhat;  it 
maketh  no  matter  to  me."  Which  is  in  effect 
to  say,  I  accuse  not,  nor  traduce  those  holy 
men ;  they  know  what  it  is  they  have  done ;  to 
God  must  they  render  their  account.  What  I 
am  desirous  to  prove  is,  that  they  neither 
reversed  nor  corrected  my  procedure,  nor  added 
to  it  as  in  their  opinion  defective,  but  gave  it 
their  approbation  and  assent ;  and  to  this  Titus 
and  Barnabas  bear  witness.     Then  he  adds, 

Ver.  7.  "When  they  saw  that  I  had  been 
entrusted  with  the  Gospel  of  the  Uncircum- 
cision  even  as  Peter  with  the  Gospel  of  the  Cir- 
cumcision*,'' — 

The     Circumcision     and    Uncircumcision ; 

meaning,  not  the  things  themselves,  but  the 
nations  known  by  these  distinctions ;  wherefore 
he  adds, 

Ver.  8.  "  For  He  that  wrought  for  Peter  unto 
the  Apostleship  of  the  Circurricision  wrought 
for  me  also  unto  the  Gentiles." 

He  calls  the  Gentiles  the  Uncircumcision  and 
the  Jews  the  Circumcision,  and  declares  his  own 
rank  to  be  equal  to  that  of  the  Apostles ;  and, 
hy  comparing  himself  with  their  Leader  not 
with  the  others,    he  shows  that  the  dignity  of 

1  [They  did  virtually  abolish  circumcision  by  the  decree  of 
tbe  council  at  Jerusalem  as  is  shown  in  the  account  in  (Acts  xv.) 
Aad  tbc  failure  of  the  effort  to  have  Titus  circumcised  shows  that 
tbe  account  in  Gal.  ii  has  nothing  inconsistent  with  that  decree. 
This  as  to  Gentiles.  The  question  did  not  concern  Tews,  who  were 
already  circumcised  in  infancy  except  in  cases  like  that  of  Tim- 
othy where  circumcision  had  been  neglected.  His  case  Paul  him- 
*df  decided  without  any  consultation  with  others. — G.  A.] 

•  ['This  passage  cannot  be  worse  misunderstood  than  it  has  been 
by  Bour  according  to  whom  there  was  a  special  Gospel  of  the  uncirc- 
u&cision  and  a  special  gospel  of  the  circumcision,  one  maintaining 
(be  necessity  of  circumcision,  the  other  allowing  it  to  drop."— 
Meyer.-G.  A.] 


each  was  the  same.  After  he  had  established 
the  proof  of  their  unanimity,  he  takes  courage, 
and  proceeds  confidently  in  his  argument,  not 
stopping  at  the  Apostles,  but  advances  to  Christ 
Himself,  and  to  the  grace  which  He  had  con- 
ferred upon  him,  and  calls-the  Apostles  as  his 
witnesses,  saying, 

Ver.  9.  "  And  when  they  perceived  the  grace 
that  was  given  unto  me,  James  and  Cephas  and 
John,  they  who  were  reputed  to  be  pillars,  gave 
to  me  and  Barnabas  the  right  hands  of  fellow- 
ship."8 

He  says  not  when  they  "  heard,"  but  when 
they  "perceived/'  that  is,  were  assured  by  the 
facts  themselves,  "  they  gave  to  me  and  Bar- 
nabas the  right  hands  of  fellowship.,,  Observe 
how  he  gradually  proves  that  his  doctrine  was 
ratified  both  by  Christ  and  by  the  Apostles.  For 
grace  would  neither  have  been  implanted,  nor 
been  operative  in  him,  had  not  his  preaching 
been  approved  by  Christ.  Where  it  was  for  the 
purpose  of  comparison  with  himself,  he  men- 
tioned Peter  alone ;  here,  when  be  calls  them 
as  witnesses,  he  names  the  three  together, 
"  Cephas,  James,  John,"  and  with  an  encomium, 
"  who  were  reputed  to  be  pillars."  Here  again 
the  expression  "who  were  reputed  "  does  not 
impugn  the  reality  of  the  fact,  but  adopts  the 
estimate  of  others,  and  implies  that  these  great 
and  distinguished  men,  whose  fame  was  uni- 
versal, bare  witness  that  his  preaching  was  rati- 
fied by  Christ,  that  they  were  practically 
informed  and  convinced  by  experience  concern- 
ing it.  "Therefore  they  gave  the  right  hands 
of  fellowship"  to  me,  and  not  to  me  only,  but 
also  to  Barnabas,  '  *  that  we  should  go  unto  the 
Gentiles,  and  they  unto  the  Circumcision." 
Here  indeed  is  exceeding  prudence  as  well  as 
an  incontrovertible  proof  of  their  concord.  For 
it  shows  that  his  and  their  doctrine  was  inter- 
changeable, and  that  both  approved  the  same 
thing,  that  they  should  so  preach  to  the  Jews, 
and  he  to  the  Gentiles.     Wherefore  he  adds, 

Ver.  9.  "  That  we  should  go  unto  the  Gen- 
tiles and  they  unto  the  Circumcision."4 

Observe  that  here  also  he  means  by  "the 
Circumcision,"  not  the  rite,  but  the  Jews; 
whenever  he  speaks  of  the  rite,  and  wishes  to 
contrast  it,  he  adds  the  word  "  uncircumcision;" 
as  when  he  says,  "For  circumcision  indeed 
profiteth,  if  thou  be  a  doer  of  the  law ;  but  if 
thou  be  a  transgressor  of  the  law,  thy  circum- 
cision is  become  uncircumcision."  (Ro.  ii :  25.) 
And  again,  "  Neither  circumcision  availeth  any 


*l"If  there  had  been  a  real  conflict  in  doctrine,  the  Apostles 
would  not  have  given  Paul  their  hand,  and  Paul  would  have  refused 
them  his."— G.A.] 

4  J"  There  was  no  difference  of  doctrine  or  gospel,  but  only  a 
division  of  territory,  and  how  little  Paul  considered  his  apostolic 
call  to  the  '  Gentiles  *  as  excluding  the  conversion  of  the  Jews 
from  his  operations  may  be  seen  from  such  passages  as  z  Cor.  ix : 
20 ;  Ro.  i :  16  ;  ix  :  1 ;  xi :  14."— Meyer.—  G.  A.] 


18 


WORKS  OF  ST.  CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Chapter  II. 


thing,  nor  uncircumcision."  But  when  it  is  to 
the  Jews  and  not  to  the  deed  that  he  gives  this 
name,  and  wishes  to  signify  the  nation,  he 
opposes  to  it  not  uncircumcision  in  its  literal 
sense,  but  the  Gentiles.  For  the  Jews  are  the 
contradistinction  to  the  Gentiles,  the  Circum- 
cision to  the  Uncircumcision.  Thus  when  he 
says  above,  "For  He  that  wrought  for  Peter 
into  the  Apostleship  of  the  Circumcision, 
wrought  for  me  also  unto  the  Gentiles ; "  and 
again,  "We  unto  the  Gentiles  and  they  unto 
the  Circumcision/ '  he  means  not  the  rite  itself, 
but  the  Jewish  nation,  thus  distinguishing  them 
from  the  Gentiles. 

Ver.  10.  "Only  they  would  that  we  should 
remember  the  poor;  which  very  thing  I  was 
also  zealous  to  do." 

This  is  his  meaning  :  In  our  preaching  we 
divided  the  world  between  us,  I  took  the  Gen- 
tiles and  they  the  Jews,  according  to  the  Divine 
decree ;  but  to  the  sustenance  of  the  poor  among 
the  Jews  I  also  contributed  my  share,  which, 
had  there  been  any  dissension  between  us,  they 
would  not  have  accepted.  Next,  who  were 
these  poor  persons?  Many  of  the  believing 
Jews  in  Palestine  had  been  deprived  of  all 
their  goods,  and  scattered  over  the  world,  as  he 
mentions  in  the  Epistle  to  the  Hebrews1,"  "For 
ye  took  joyfully  the  spoiling  of  your  possessions ; " 
and  in  writing  to  the  Thessalonians,  (i  Thes.  ii : 
14.)  he  extols  their  fortitude,  "  Ye  became  imi- 
tators of  the  Churches  of  God  which  are  in 
Judaea,  ...  for  ye  also  suffered  the  same  thing 
of  your  own  countrymen,  even  as  they  did  of 
the  Jews."  And  he  shows  throughout  that 
those  Greeks  who  believed  were  not  under  per- 
secution from  the  rest,  such  as  the  believing 
Jews  were  suffering  from  their  own  kindred,  for 
there  is  no  nation  of  a  temper  so  cruel.  Where- 
fore he  exercises  much  zeal,  as  appears  in  the 
Epistles  to  the  Romans  (Ro.  xv:  25 — 27.)  and 
Corinthians  (1  Cor.  xvi:  1 — 3.)  that  these  per- 
sons should  meet  with  much  attention ;  and  Paul 
not  only  collects  money  for  them,  but  himself 
conveys  it,  as  he  says,  "But  now  I  go  unto 
Jerusalem  ministering  unto  the  saints,"  (Ro. 
xv :  25.)  for  they  were  without  the  necessaries 
of  life.  And  he  here  shows  that  in  this  instance 
having  resolved  to  assist  them,  he  had  under- 
taken and  would  not  abandon  it. 

Having  by  these  means  declared  the  unani- 
mity and  harmony  between  the  Apostles  and 
himself,  he  is  obliged  to  proceed  to  mention  his 
debate  with  Peter  at  Antioch. 

Ver.  11,  12.  "But  when  Cephas  came  to 
Antioch,  I  resisted  him  to  the  face,  because  he 
stood  condemned.  For  before  that  certain  came 


1  [Hebrews  x :  14  [This  is  interesting  as  showing  that  Chrysos- 
tom  attributed  the  Epistle  to  the  Hebrews  to  St.  Paul,  though 
most  modern  critics  do  not  agree  with  him  in  that  view. — G.  A.] 


from  James,  he  did  eat  with  the  Gentiles :  but 
when  they  came,  he  drew  back  and  separated 
himself,  fearing  them  that  were  of  the  circum- 
cision." 

Many,  on  a  superficial  reading  of  this  part  of 
the  Epistle,  suppose  that  Paul  accused  Peter  of 
hypocrisy.  But  this  is  not  so,  indeed  it  is  not, 
far  from  it ; 2  we  shall  discover  great  wisdom, 
both  of  Paul  and  Peter,  concealed  herein  for 
the  benefit  of  their  hearers.  But  first  a  word 
must  be  said  about  Peter's  freedom  in  speech, 
and  how  it  was  ever  his  way  to  outstrip  the 
other  disciples.  Indeed  it  was  upon  one  such 
occasion  that  he  gained  his  name  from  the 
unbending  and  impregnable  character  of  his 
faith.  For  when  all  were  interrogated  in  com- 
mon, he  stepped  before  the  others  and  answered, 
"Thou  art  the  Christ,  the  Son  of  the  living 
God."  (Mat.  xvi:  16.)  This  was  when  the  keys 
of  heaven  were  committed  to  him.  So  too,  he 
appears  to  have  been  the  only  speaker  on  the 
Mount;  (Mat.  xvii :  4.)  and  when  Christ  spoke  of 
His  crucifixion,  and  the  others  kept  silence,  he 
said,  "Be  it  far  from  Thee."  (Mat.  xvi:  22.) 
These  words  evince,  if  not  a  cautious  temper, 
at  least  a  fervent  love ;  and  in  all  instances  we 
find  him  more  vehement  than  the  others,  and 
rushing  forward  into  danger.  So  when  Christ 
was  seen  on  the  beach,  and  the  others  were 
pushing  the  boat  in*  he  was  too  impatient  to 
wait  for  its  coming  to  land.  (John  xxi :  7.)  And 
after  the  Resurrection,  when  the  Jews  were 
murderous  and  maddened,  and  sought  to  tear 
the  Apostles  in  pieces,  he  first  dared  to  come 
forward,  and  to  declare,  that  the  Crucified  was 
taken  up  into  heaven.  (Acts  ii :  14,  36.)  It  is  a 
greater  thing  to  open  a  closed  door,  and  to 
commence  an  action,  than  to  be  free-spoken 
afterwards.  How  could  he  ever  dissemble  who 
had  exposed  his  life  to  such  a  populace  ?  He 
who  when  scourged  and  bound  would  not  bate 
a  jot  of  his  courage,  and  this  at  the  beginning 
of  his  mission,  and  in  the  heart  of  the  chief 
city  where  there  was  so  much  danger, — how 
could  he,  long  afterwards  in  Antioch,  where  no 
danger  was  at  hand,  and  his  character  had 
received  lustre  from  the  testimony  of  his  actions, 
feel  any  apprehension  of  the  believing  Jews? 
How  could  he,  I  say,  who  at  the  very  first  and 
in  their  chief  city  feared  not  the  Jews  while 
Jews,  after  a  long  time  and  in  a  foreign  city, 
fear  those  of  them  who  had  been  converted  ? 
Paul  therefore  does  not  speak  this  against  Peter, 
but  with  the  same  meaning  in  which  he  said, 
"for  they  who  were  reputed  to  be  somewhat, 
whatsoever  they  were,  it  maketh  no  matter  to 
me."  But  to  remove  any  doubt  on  this  point, 
we  must  unfold  the  reason  of  these  expressions. 

The  Apostles,  as  I  said  before,  permitted  cir- 

*  [aAA*  ovic  fori  ravra,  ovu  fortr  away*. — G.  A.] 


Chapter  II.] 


COMMENTARY  ON  GALATIANS. 


*9 


cumcision  at  Jerusalem,  an  abrupt  severance 
from  the  law  not  being  practicable;  but  when 
they  come  to  Antioch,  they  no  longer  continued 
this  observance,  but  lived  indiscriminately  with 
the  believing  Gentiles  which  thing  Peter  also 
was  at  that  time  doing.  But  when  some  came 
from  Jerusalem  who  had  heard  the  doctrine  he 
delivered  there,  he  no  longer  did  so  fearing  to 
perplex  them,  but  he  changed  his  course,  with 
two  objects  secretly  in  view,  both  to  avoid  offend- 
ing those  Jews,  and  to  give  Paul  a  reasonable 
pretext  for  rebuking  him.1  For  had  he,  having 
allowed  circumcision  when  preaching  at  Jerusa- 
lem, changed  his  course  at  Antioch,  his  con- 
duct would  have  appeared  to  those  Jews  to  pro- 
ceed from  fear  of  Paul,  and  his  disciples  would 
have  condemned  his  excess  of  pliancy.  And 
this  would  have  created  no  small  offence ;  but 
in  Paul,  who  was  well  acquainted  with  all  the 
facts,  his  withdrawal  would  have  raised  no  such 
suspicion,  as  knowing  the  intention  with  which 
he  acted.  Wherefore  Paul  rebukes,  and  Peter 
submits,  that  when  the  master  is  blamed,  yet 
keeps  silence,  the  disciples  may  more  readily 
come  over.  Without  this  occurrence  Paul's 
exhortation  would  have  had  little  effect,  but  the 
occasion  hereby  afforded  of  delivering  a  severe 
reproof,  impressed  Peter's  disciples  with  a  more 
lively  fear.  Had  Peter  disputed  Paul's  sentence, 
he  might  justly  have  been  blamed  as  upsetting 
the  plan,  but  now  that  the  one  reproves  and  the 
other  keeps  silence,  the  Jewish  party  are  filled 
with  serious  alarm;  and  this  is  why  he  used 
Peter  so  severely.  Observe  too  Paul's  careful 
choice  of  expressions,  whereby  he  points  out  to 

'S.  Jerome  adopts  the  interpretation  given  in  the  text,  viz.  that  S. 
Peter's  dissimulation  was  no  sin,  but  intended  as  an  opportunity 
for  S.  Paul  to  declare  the  freedom  of  the  Gentiles  from  the  Jewish 
Lav.  On  the  other  hand,  S.  Austin  considers  that  he  acted  through 
wrong  motives,  and  sinned  in  dissembling.  In  this  opinion  ne  is 
npported  by  Tertullian,  S.  Cyprian  S.  Cyril,  of  Alexandria,  S. 
Gregory  and  Ambrosiaster.  (Hieron.  in  loct  et  alibi.  August,  de 
Baft,  contr.  Donatist.  ii.  9.  de  Mendacio  8.  Tertull.  de  Prtts- 
trtpt.  zy  in  Marc.  iv.  3.  v.  3.  Cyprian,  Ep.  ad  Quint.  71.  Cyril. 
Alex,  in  Julian,  ix.  fin.  Gregor.  in  Ezech.  ii.  Horn.  6,  9.  Am- 
brotiast.  in  lee.)  S.  Austin  is  influenced  in  his  judgment  of  the 
transaction  by  an  anxiety  lest  disingenuousness  and  duplicity 
should  receive  countenance  from  the  apparent  example  of  an  Apos- 
tle ;  S.  Chrysostom  and  S.  Jerome  by  affectionate  reverence  for  the 
memory  of  so  great  a  benefactor  and  so  exalted  a  saint.  Vid.  Jus- 
tinian, in  loco. 

[In  earlier  life  Chrysostom  had  himself  practised  such  a 
"scheme,"  as  that  which  he  here  attributes  to  Paul.  In  order 
to  induce  his  friend  Basil  to  be  consecrated  as  a  bishop  he  made  on 
htm  the  (false)  impression  that  he  himself  had  already  been  conse- 
crated.] Neander  (Lift  0/ Chryeoxtom  p.  m.)  says:  "In  the  first  book 
ofhisworkonthePriesthood  Chrysostom  defends  the  principle  that 
a  falsehood  is  permitted  for  a  good  object.  An  invention  which 
hu  for  its  sole  object  the  advantage  of  another  is  rather  an 
•uwofu*  (the  word  he  uses  in  expounding  our  passage.)  This 
lax  view  respecting  truth  was  not  peculiar  to  Chrysostom  but 
was  consonant  with  the  prevailing  spirit  of  the  Eastern  Church. 
There  were  a  few  exceptions  however  to  this  view,  among  whom 
were  John  of  Lycopolis  in  Egypt,  and  Basil  of  Caesarea  who 
Ays  rov  Kvpiov  6ta^opAy  ifrivtiov*  ovitfiaiv  eK^qpcuTOf.  Schaff 
■ays  [Prolegomena  p.  8) :  "  Origen,  Jerome  and  Chrysostom 
explain  the  offense  of  this  collision  away  by  turning  it  into  a 
theatrical  and  hypocritical  farce,  shrewdly  arranged  by  the  Apos- 
tle for  a  purpose.  In  this  respect  the  modern  standard  of  ethics 
fc  far  superior  to  that  of  the  Fathers  and  more  fully  accords 
with  the  spirit  of  the  New  Testament."  [We  may  add  that 
Chrysostom's  view  gains  nothing  ;  for  to  save  one  Apostle  from 
tie  charge  of  unpremeditated  hypocrisy,  he  makes  both  guilty  of 
premeditated  hypocrisy.— G.  A.] 


the  discerning,  that  he  uses  them  in  pursuance 
of  the  plan,  (dtxovofija?)  and  not  from  anger. 

His  words  are,  "When  Cephas  came  to  Anti- 
och, I  resisted  him  to  the  face,  because  he  stood 
condemned ;  "  that  is,  not  by  me  but  by  others; 
had  he  himself  condemned  him,  he  would  not 
have  shrunk  from  saying  so.  And  the  words, 
"I  resisted  him  to  the  face,"  imply  a  scheme 
for  had  their  discussion  been  real,  they  would 
not  have  rebuked  each  other  in  the  presence  of 
the  disciples,  for  it  would  have  been  a  great 
stumblingblock  to  them.  But  now  this  appar- 
ent contest  was  much  to  their  advantage ;  as 
Paul  had  yielded  to  the  Apostles  at  Jerusalem, 
so  in  turn  they  yield  to  him  at  Antioch.  The 
cause  of  censure  is  this,  "  For  before  that  cer- 
tain came  from  James/'  who  was  the  teacher  at 
Jerusalem,  "  he  did  eat  with  the  Gentiles,  but 
when  they  came  he  drew  back  and  separated 
himself,  fearing  them  that  were  of  the  Circum- 
cision: "  his  cause  of  fear  was  not  his  own  dan- 
ger, (for  if  he  feared  nor*  in  the  beginning, 
much  less  would  he  do  so  then,)  but  their  defec- 
tion. As  Paul  himself  says  to  the  Galatians, 
"  I  am  afraid  of  you,  lest  by  any  means  I  have 
bestowed  labor  upon  you  in  vain :  "  (Gal.  iv : 
n.)  and  again,  "I  fear  lest  by  any  means  as 
the  serpent  beguiled  Eve,  ...  so  your  minds 
should  be  corrupted."  (2  Cor.  xi:  3.)  Thus 
the  fear  of  death  they  knew  not,  but  the  fear 
lest  their  disciples  should  perish,  agitated  their 
inmost  soul. 

Ver.  13.  "Insomuch  that  even  Barnabas  was 
carried  away  with  their  dissimulation." 

Be  not  surprised  at  his  giving  this  proceeding 
the  name  of  dissimulation,  for  he  is  unwilling, 
as  I  said  before,  to  disclose  the  true  state  of  the 
case,  in  order  to  the  correction  of  his  disciples. 
On  account  of  their  vehement  attachment  to 
the  Law,  he  calls  the  present  proceeding  "dis- 
simulation," and  severely  rebukes  it,  in  order 
effectually  to  eradicate  their  prejudice.  And 
Peter  too,  hearing  this  joins  in  the  feint,  as  if 
he  had  erred,  that  they  might  be  corrected  by 
means  of  the  rebuke  administered  to  him.  Had 
Paul  reproved  these  Jews,  they  would  have 
spurned  at  it  with  indignation,  for  they  held 
him  in  slight  esteem ;  but  now,  when  they  saw 
their  Teacher  silent  under  rebuke,  they  were 
unable  to  despise  or  resist  Paul's  sentence. 

Ver.  14.  "  But  when  I  saw  that  they  walked 
not  uprightly  according  to  the  truth  of  the  Gos- 
pel." 

Neither  let  this  phrase  disturb  you,  for  in 
using  it  he  does  not  condemn  Peter,  but  so  ex- 
presses himself  for  the  benefit  of  those  who 
were  to  be  reformed  by  the  reproof  of  Peter. 

Ver.  14.  "I  said  unto  Cephas  before  them 
all." 

Observe  his  mode  of  correcting  the  others  ; 


20 


WORKS  OF  ST.  CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Chapter  II. 


he  speaks  "  before  them  all/'  that  the  hearers 
might  be  alarmed  thereby.  And  this  is  wha*  he 
says, — 

Ver.  14.  "  If  thou,  being  a  Jew,  livest  as  do  the 
Gentiles,  and  not  as  do  the  Jews,  how  compellest 
thou  the  Gentiles  to  live  as  do  the  Jews  ?  "f 

But  it  was  the  Jews  and  not  the  Gentiles  who 
were  carried  away  together  with  Peter;  why 
then  does  Paul  impute  what  was  not  done,  in- 
stead of  directing  his  remarks,  not  against  the 
Gentiles,  but  against  the  dissembling  Jews? 
And  why  does  he  accuse  Peter  alone,  when  the 
rest  also  dissembled  together  with  him  ?  Let  us 
consider  the  terms  of  his  charge;  "If  thou, 
being  a  Jew,  livest  as  do  the  Gentiles,  and  not 
as  do  the  Jews,  how  compellest  thou  the  Gen- 
tiles to  live  as  do  the  Jews  ?  ' '  for  in  fact  Peter 
alone  had  withdrawn  himself.  His  object  then 
is  to  remove  suspicion  from  his  rebuke ;  had  he 
blamed  Peter  for  observing  the  Law,  the  Jews 
would  have  censured  him  for  his  boldness 
towards  their  Teacrftr.  But  now  arraigning  him 
in  behalf  of  his  own  peculiar  disciples,  I  mean 
the  Gentiles,  he  facilitates  thereby  the  reception 
of  what  he  has  to  say ;  which  he  also  does  by 
abstaining  from  reproof  of  the  others,  and  ad- 
dressing it  all  to  the  Apostle.  "If  thou,"  he 
says,  "  being  a  Jew,  livest  as  do  the  Gentiles, 
and  not  as  do  the  Jews ;"  which  almost  amounts 
to  an  explicit  exhortation  to  imitate  their 
Teacher,  who,  himself  a  Jew,  lived  after  the 
manner  of  the  Gentiles.  This  however  he  says 
not,  for  they  could  not  have  received  such 
advice,  but  under  color  of  reproving  him  in 
behalf  of  the  Gentiles,  he  discloses  Peter's  real 
sentiments.  On  the  other  hand,  if  he  had  said, 
Wherefore  do  you  compel  these  Jews  to  Judaize  ? 
his  language  would  have  been  too  severe.  But 
now  he  effects  their  correction  by  appearing  to 
espouse  the  part,  not  of  the  Jewish,  but  of  the 
Gentile,  disciples ;  for  rebukes,  which  are  mod- 
erately severe,  secure  the  readiest  reception. 
And  none  of  the  Gentiles  could  object  to  Paul 
that  he  took  up  the  defense  of  the  Jews.  The 
whole  difficulty  was  removed  by  Peter's  submit- 
ting in  silence  to  the  imputation  of  dissimula- 
tion, in  order  that  he  might  deliver  the  Jews 
from  its  reality.  At  first  Paul  directs  his  argu- 
ment to  the  character  which  Peter  wore,  "If 
thou,  being  a  Jew  :  "  but  he  generalizes  as  he 
goes  on,  and  includes  himself  in  the  phrase,1 

Ver.  15.  "  We  being  Jews  by  nature,  and 
not  sinners  of  the  Gentiles."2 


*.  [For  the  bearing  of  this  passage  upon  the  Tubingen  theory  of 
Baur,  "the  most  important  of  recent  theological  controvrrsies" 
see  Lightfoot's  Commentary  on  Galatians,  Excursus  on  St.  Paul 
and  the  Three ',  pp.  191  ff.,  and  Fisher's  Suptrnatural  Origin 
0/  Christianity,  pp.  205-ff.— G.  A.] 

9  [Schaff  says  :  "The  following  verses  to  the  end  of  the  chapter 
are  a  summary  report  or  dramatic  sketch  of  Paul's  address  to 
Peter."  So  also  Meyer  who  gives  four  good  reasons  for  this  view. 
So  also  Schmoller  (in  Lange}  and  Ellicott.  Others  think  that  yv. 
15-21  are  addressed  to  the  Galatians. — G.  A.] 


These  words  are  hortatory,  but  are  couched 
in  the  form  of  a  reproof,  on  account  of  those 
Jews.  So  elsewhere,  under  cover  of  one  mean- 
ing he  conveys  another  ;  as  where  he  says  in  his 
Epistle  to  the  Romans,  "  But  now  I  go  unto 
Jerusalem,  ministering  unto  the  saints."  (Rom. 
xv :  25.)  Here  his  object  was  not  simply  to 
inform  them  of  the  motive  of  his  journey  to 
Jerusalem,  but  to  excite  them  to  emulation  in 
the  giving  of  alms.  Had  he  merely  wished  to 
explain  his  motive,  it  would  have  sufficed  to 
say,  "I  go  to  ministering  unto  the  saints;" 
but  now  observe  what  he  says  in  addition ;  ' '  For 
it  hath  been  the  good  pleasure  of  Macedonia 
and  Achaia  to  make  a  certain  contribution  for 
the  poor  among  the  saints  that  are  at  Jerusalem. 
Yea,  it  hath  been  their  good  pleasure  and  their 
debtors  they  are. "  And  again ,  ' '  For  if  the  Gen- 
tiles have  been  made  partakers  of  their  spiritual 
things,  they  owe  it  to  them,  also  to  minister 
unto  them  in  carnal  things."  (Rom.  xv:  26,  27.) 

Observe  how  he  represses  the  high  thoughts 
of  the  Jews ;  preparing  for  one  thing  by  means 
of  another,  and  his  language  is  authoritative. 
"  We  being  Jews  by  nature,  and  not  sinners 
of  the  Gentiles."  The  phrase,  "Jews  by 
nature,"  implies  that  we,  who  are  not  prose- 
lytes, but  educated  from  early  youth  in  the  Iaw, 
have  relinquished  our  habitual  mode  of  life,  and 
betaken  ourselves  to  the  faith  which  is  in  Christ. 

Ver.  16.  "  Knowing  that  a  man  is  not  justi- 
fied by  the  works  of  the  Law,  save  through 
faith,  in  Jesus  Christ,  even  we  believed  on  Christ 
Jesus." 

Observe  here  too  how  cautiously  he  expresses 
himself;  he  does  not  say  that  they  had  aban- 
doned the  Law  as  evil,  but  as  weak.  If  the  law 
cannot  confer  righteousness,  it  follows  that  cir- 
cumcision is  superfluous ;  and  so  far  he  now 
proves ;  but  he  proceeds  to  show  that  it  is  not 
only  superfluous  but  dangerous.  It  deserves 
especial  notice,  how  at  the  outset  he  says  that 
a  man  is  not  justified  by  the  works  of  the  Law ; 
but  as  he  proceeds  he  speaks  more  strongly ; 

Ver.  17.  "But  if,  while  we  sought  to  be 
justified  in  Christ,  we  ourselves  also  were  found 
sinners  is  Christ  a  minister  of  sin  ?  " 

If  faith  in  Him,  says  he,  avail  not  for  our 
justification,  but  it  be  necessary  again  to 
embrace  the  Law,  and  if,  having  forsaken  the 
Law  for  Christ's  sake,  we  are  not  justified 
but  condemned  for  such  abandonment, — then 
shall  we  find  Him,  for  whose  sake  we  forsook 
the  Law  and  went  over  to  faith  the  author  of 
our    condemnation.8      Observe    how,    he    has 


■  ["  Thus  to  be  justified  in  Christ,  it  was  necessary  to  sink  to  the 
level  of  Gentiles,  to  become  'sinners'  in  fact.  But  are  we  not 
thus  making  Christ  a  minster  of  sin  ?  Away  with  the  profane 
thought  I  No,  the  guilt  is  not  in  abandoning  the  Law,  but  in  seek- 
ing it  again  when  abandoned.  Thus  alone  we  convict  ourselves  of 
transgression.  <>n  the  other  hand  in  abandoning  the  Law  we  did 
but  follow  the  promptings  of  the  Law."     Lightfoot.— G.  A.] 


Chapter  IL] 


HOMILIES  ON  GALATIANS. 


21 


resolved  the  matter  to  a  necessary  absurdity. 
And  mark  how  earnestly  and  strongly  he 
argues.  For  if,  he  says,  it  behooved  us  not  to 
abandon  the  Law,  and  we  have  so  abandoned  it 
for  Christ's  sake,  we  shall  be  judged.  Where- 
fore do  you  urge  this  upon  Peter,  who  is  more 
intimately  acquainted  with  it  than  any  one? 
Hath  not  God  declared  to  him,  that  an  uncir- 
cumcised  man  ought  not  to  be  judged  by  cir- 
cumcision ;  and  did  he  not  in  his  discussion 
with  the  Jews  rest  his  bold  opposition  upon  the 
vision  which  he  saw?  Did  he  not  send  from 
Jerusalem  unequivocal  decrees  upon  this  sub- 
ject ?  Paul's  object  is  not  therefore  to  correct 
Peter,  but  his  animadversion  required  to  be 
addressed  to  him,  though  it  was  pointed  at  the 
disciples ;  and  not  only  at  the  Galatians,  but 
also  at  others  who  labor  under  the  same  error 
with  them.  For  though  few  are  now  circum- 
cised, yet,  by  fasting  and  observing  the  sabbath 
with  the  Jews,  they  equally  exclude  themselves 
from  grace.  If  Christ  avails  not  to  those  who 
are  only  circumcised,  much  more  is  peril  to  be 
feared  where  fasting  and  sabbatizing  are 
observed,  and  thus  two  commandments  of  the 
Law  are  kept  in  the  place  of  one.  And  this  is 
aggravated  by  a  consideration  of  time  :  for  they 
so  acted  at  first  while  the  city  and  temple  and 
other  institutions  yet  existed ;  but  these  who 
with  the  punishment  of  the  Jews,  and  the  des- 
truction of  the  city  before  their  eyes,1  observe 
more  precepts  of  the  Law  than  the  others  did, 
what  apology  can  they  find  for  such  observance, 
at  the  very  time  when  the  Jews  themselves,  in 
spite  of  their  strong  desire,  cannot  keep  it? 
Thou  hast  put  on  Christ,  thou  hast  become  a 
member  of  the  Lord,  and  been  enrolled  in  the 
heavenly  city,  and  dost  thou  still  grovel  in  the 
Law?  How  is  it  possible  for  thee  to  obtain  the 
kingdom?  Listen  to  Paul's  words,  that  the 
observance  of  the  Law  overthrows  the  Gospel, 
and  learn,  if  thou  wilt,  how  this  comes  to  pass, 
and  tremble,  and  shun  this  pitfall.  Wherefore 
dost  thou  keep  the  sabbath,  and  fast  with  the 
Jews?  Is  it  that  thou  fearest  the  Law  and 
abandonment  of  its  letter  ?  But  thou  wouldest 
not  entertain  this  fear,  didst  thou  not  disparage 
faith  as  weak,  and  by  itself  powerless  to  save. 
A  fear  to  omit  the  sabbath  plainly  shows  that 
you  fear  the  Law  as  still  in  force ;  and  if  the 
Law  is  needful,  it  is  so  as  a  whole,  not  in  part, 
nor  in  one  commandment  only;  and  if  as  a 
whole,  the  righteousness  which  is  by  faith  is 
little  by  little  shut  out.  If  thou  keep  the  sab- 
bath, why  not  also  be  circumcised  ?  and  if  cir- 
cumcised, why  not  also  offer  sacrifices  ?  If  the 
Law  is  to  be  observed,  it  must  be  observed  as  a 
whole,  or   not   at   all.     If  omitting  one   part 

1  [The  Epistle  to  the  Galatians  was  written  in  the  year  A.  D.  56 
<*  57  and  the  destruction  of  Jerusalem  occurred  in  A,  D.  70.-G.  A.] 


makes  you  fear  condemnation,  this  fear  attaches 
equally  to  all  the  parts.  If  a  transgression  of 
the  whole  is  not  punishable,  much  less  is  the 
transgression  of  a  part ;  on  the  other  hand,  if 
the  latter  be  punishable,  much  more  is  the 
former.  But  if  we  are  bound  to  keep  the  whole, 
we  are  bound  to  disobey  Christ,  or  by  obedience 
to  Him  become  transgressors  of  the  Law.  If  it 
ought  to  be  kept,  those  who  keep  it  not  are 
transgressors,  and  Christ  will  be  found  to  be  the 
cause  of  this  transgression,  for  He  annulled  the 
Law  as  regards  these  things  Himself,  and  bid 
j  others  annul  it.  Do  you  not  understand  what  these 
•  Judaizers  are  compassing?  They  would  make 
j  Christ,  who  is  to  us  the  Author  of  righteousness, 
the  Author  of  sin,  as  Paul  says,  "Therefore 
Christ  is  the  minister  of  sin."  Having  thus 
reduced  the  proposition  to  an  absurdity,  he  had 
nothing  further  to  do  by  way  of  overthrowing  it, 
but  was  satisfied  with  the  simple  protestation, 

Ver.  17.  "God  forbid :"  for  shameiessness 
and  irreverence  need  not  r3e  met  by  processes 
of  reasoning,  but  a  mere  protest  is  enough. 

Ver.  18.  "For  if  I  build  up  again  those 
things,  which  I  destroyed,  I  prove  myself  a 
transgressor."2 

Observe  the  Apostle's  discernment;  his  oppo- 
nents endeavored  to  show,  that  he  who  kept  not 
the  Law  was  a  transgressor,  but  he  retorts 
the  argument  upon  them,  and  shows  that  he 
who  did  keep  the  Law  was  a  transgressor,  not 
merely  of  faith,  but  of  the  Law  itself.  "I 
build  up  again  the  things  which  I  destroyed," 
that  is,  the  Law;  he  means  as  follows:  the 
Law  has  confessedly  ceased,  and  we  have  aban- 
doned it,  and  betaken  ourselves  to  the  salvation 
which  comes  of  faith.  '  But  if  we  make  a  point 
of  setting  it  up  again,  we  become  by  that  very 
act  transgressors,  striving  to  keep  what  what 
God  has  annulled.  Next  he  shows  how  it  has 
been  annulled. 

Ver.  19.  "  For  P  through  the  Law  died  unto 
the  Law." 

This  may  be  viewed  in  two  ways ;  it  is  either 
the  law  of  grace  which  he  speaks  of,  for  he  is 
wont  to  call  this  a  law,  as  in  the  words,  "  For 
the  law  of  the  Spirit  of  life  made  me  free:  " 
(Rom.  viii :  2.)  or  it  is  the  old  Law,  of  which  he 
says,  that  by  the  Law  itself  he  has  become  dead  to 
the  Law.  That  is  to  say,  the  Law  itself  has  taught 
me  no  longer  to  obey  itself,  and  therefore  if  I  do 
so,  I  shall  be  transgressing  even  its  teaching.  4 

'["I  myself  (Paul  now  politely  chooses  the?  first  person  but 
means  Peter)  stand  convicted  of  transgressiou  if  I  build  again  fas 
thou  dost  now  at  Antioch)  the  very  law  of  Moses  which  I  pulled 
down  (as  thou  didst  at  Catsarea  by  divine  command  and  at  first 
at  Antioch)  and  thus  condemn  my  own  former  conduct." — Schafr 
in  Pop. Com.— -G.  A.) 

•  [*ryw  yap — In  my  case  the  process  has  been  this,  using  his  own 
experience. — G.A  ] 

'["This  second  interpretation  of  Chrysostom  is  undoubtedly  the 
correct  one  (though  he  errs  in  elucidating  the  relation  of  6td  by 
referring  to  Deut.  xviii:  15.)  comp.  Rom.  vii:  4,  6  ;  The  law  itself 
led  him  to  Christ,  by  developing  the  sense  of  sin  and  the  need  of 
redemption."— Schaff  in  Pop.  Com.—G.  A,] 


22 


WORKS  OF  ST.  CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Chapter  IL 


How,  in  what  way  nas  it  so  taught?  Moses 
says,  speaking  of  Christ,  "  The  Lord  God  will 
raise  up  unto  thee  a  Prophet  from  the  midst  of 
thee  of  thy  brethren,  like  unto  me ;  unto  Him 
shall  ye  hearken.' '  (Deut.  xviii:  15.)  There- 
fore they  who  do  not  obey  Him,  transgress  the 
Law.  Again,  the  expression,  "I  through  the 
Law  died  unto  the  Law,"  may  be  understood 
in  another  sense:  the  Law  commands  all  its 
precepts  to  be  performed,  and  punishes  the 
transgressor;  therefore  we  are  all  dead  to  it, 
for  no  man  has  fulfilled  it.  Here  observe, 
how  guardedly  he  assails  it ;  he  says  not,  "  the 
Law  is  dead  to  me;"  but,  "  I  am  dead  to  the 
Law;  "  the  meaning  of  which  is,  that,  as  it  is 
impossible  for  a  dead  corpse  to  obey  the  com- 
mands of  the  Law,  so  also  is  it  for  me  who 
have  perished  by  its  curse,  for  by  its  word 
am  I  slain.  Let  it  not  therefore  lay  commands 
on  the  dead,  dead  by  its  own  act,  dead  not  in 
body  only,  but  in  soul,  which  has  involved 
the  death  of  the  body.  This  he  shows  in  what 
follows : 

Ver.  19,  20.  "That  I  might  live  unto  God,1 1 
have  been  crucified  with  Christ." 

Having  said,  "  I  am  dead,"  lest  it  should  be 
objected,  how  then  dost  thou  live?  he  adds  the 
cause  of  his  living,  and  shows  that  when  alive 
the  Law  slew  him,  but  that  when  dead  Christ 
through  death  restored  him  to  life.  He  shows 
the  wonder  to  be  twofold ;  that  by  Christ  both 
the  dead  was  begotten  into  life,  and  that  by 
means  of  death.  He  here  means  the  immortal 
life,  for  this  is  the  meaning  of  the  words, 
"That  I  might  live  unto  God  I  am  crucified 
with  Christ."  *  How,  it  is  asked,  can  a  man 
now  living  and  breathing  have  been  crucified  ? 
That  Christ  hath  been  crucified  is  manifest,  but 
how  canst  thou  have  been  crucified,  and  yet 
live  ?     He  explains  it  thus ; 

Ver.  20.  "  Yet2 1  live ;  and  yet  no  longer  I,  but 
Christ  liveth  in  me." 

In  these  words,  "I  am  crucified  with  Christ," 
he  alludes  to  Baptism,3  and  in  the  words  "never- 
theless I  live,  yet  not  I,"  our  subsequent  man- 
ner of  life  whereby  our  members  are  mortified. 
By  saying  "Christ  liveth  in  me,"  he  means 
nothing  is  done  b^  me,  which  Christ  disap- 
proves ;  for  as  by  death  he  signifies  not  what  is 
commonly  understood,  but  a  death  to  sin  ;  so  by 
life,  he  signifies  a  delivery  from  sin.  For  a  man 
cannot  live  to  God,  otherwise  than  by  dying  to 

1  [  '*  That  I  might  live  unto  God  "  is  not  to  be  joined  to  "  I  have 
been  crucified  with  Christ  "  as  Chrysostom,  for  it  belongs  to  the  com- 
pleteness of  the  thought  introduced  by  yap  ver.  19. — Meyer.— G.  A.] 

*  [This  is  the  rendering  of  the  Rev.  Ver.  though  the  American 
Committee  has,  "  And  it  is  no  longer  I  that  live  ;  "  and  correctly 
so.  For  as  Dr.  Schaff  says,  The  reading  of  the  Rev.  Ver.  (and  the 
Author.  Ver.  too)  conveys  a  beautiful  and  true  idea,  but  it  is  gram- 
matically incorrect,  since  the  original  has  no  "nevertheless"  and  no 
"yet."  Pop.  Com.  on  Gal.  and  Companion  to  the  Greek  Testai- 
ment,  p.  453  _G.  *A.l 

•  [Chrysostom  held  baptismal  regeneration. — G.  A.J 


sin;  and  as  Christ  suffered  bodily  death,  so 
does  Paul  a  death  to  sin.  "  Mortify,"  says  he 
"  your  members  which  are  upon  the  earth  ;  for- 
nication, uncleanness,  passion  ;"  (Col.  iii :  5.) 
and  again,  "  our  old  man  was  crucified, "(Rom. 
vi :  6.)  which  took  place  in  the  Bath.3  After 
which,  if  thou  remainest  dead  to  sin,  thou  liv- 
est  to  God,  but  if  thou  let  it  live  again,  thou 
art  the  ruin  of  thy  new  life.  This  however  did 
not  Paul,  but  continued  wholly  dead ;  if  then, 
he  says,  I  live  to  God  a  life  other  than  that  in 
the  Law,  and  am  dead  to  the  Law,  I  cannot 
possibly  keep  any  part  of  the  Law.  Consider 
how  perfect  was  his  walk,  and  thou  wilt  be 
transported  with  admiration  of  this  blessed  soul. 
He  says  not,  "I  live,"  but,  "Christ  liveth 
in  me;  "who  is  bold  enough  to  utter  such 
words?  Paul  indeed,  who  had  harnessed  himself 
to  Christ's  yoke,  and  cast  away  all  worldly 
things,  and  was  paying  universal  obedience  to 
His  will,  says  not,  "I  live  to  Christ,"  but  what 
is  far  higher,  "  Christ  liveth  in  me."  As  sin, 
when  it  has  the  mastery,  is  itself  the  vital  prin- 
ciple, and  leads  the  soul  whither  it  will,  so, 
when  it  is  slain  and  the  will  of  Christ  obeyed, 
this  life  is  no  longer  earthly,  but  Christ  liveth, 
that  is,  works,  has  mastery  within  us.  His  say- 
ing, "I  am  crucified  with  Him"  "  I  no  longer 
live,"  but  "am  dead,"  seeming  incredible  to 
many,  he  adds, 

Ver.  20.  "  And  that  life  which  I  now  live  in 
the  flesh,  I  live  in  faith,  the  faith  which  is  in 
the  Son  of  God." 

The  foregoing,  says  he,  relates  to  our  spirit- 
ual life,  but  this  life  of  sense  too,  if  considered, 
will  be  found  owing  to  my  faith  in  Christ.  For 
as  regards  the  former  Dispensation  and  Law,  I 
had  incurred  the  severest  punishment,  and  had 
long  ago  perished,  "  for  all  have  sinned,  and 
come  short  of  the  glory  of  God."  (Rom.  iii: 
23.)  And  we,  who  lay  under  sentence,  have 
been  liberated  by  Christ,  for  all  of  us  are  dead, 
if  not  in  fact,  at  least  by  sentence ;  and  He  has 
delivered  us  from  the  expected  blow.  When 
the  Law  had  accused,  and  God  condemned  us, 
Christ  came,  and  by  giving  Himself  up  to  death, 
rescued  us  all  from  death.  So  that  '  'the  life  which 
I  now  live  in  the  flesh,  I  live  in  faith."  Had 
not  this  been,  nothing  could  have  averted  a  de- 
struction as  general  as  that  which  took  place  at 
the  flood,  but  His  advent  arrested  the  wrath  of 
God,  and  caused  us  to  live  by  faith.  That 
such  is  his  meaning  appears  from  what  follows. 
After  saying,  that  "the  life  which  I  now  live  in 
the  flesh,  I  live  in  faith,"  he  adds, 

Ver.  20.  "In  the  Son  of  God,  Who  loved  me, 
and  gave  Himself  up  for  me." 

How  is  this,  O  Paul !  why  dost  thou  appro- 
priate a  general  benefit,  and  make  thine  own 
what  was  done  for  the  whole  world's  sake  ?  for 


Chapter  III.  ] 


COMMENTARY  ON  GALATIANS. 


23 


hesays  not,  "Who  loved  us,' '  but,  "Who  loved  i 
me."  And  besides  the  Evangelist  says,  "  God 
so  loved  the  world  ;"  (John  iii :  16.)  and 
Paul  himself,  "  He  that  spared  not  His  own  Son, 
but  delivered  Him  up,  not  for  Paul  only,  but, 
"for  us  all  ;M  (Rom.  viii :  32.)  and  again,  "that 
He  might  purify  unto  himself  a  people  for  his 
own  possession,  (  Tit.  ii :  14.)  But  consider- 
ing the  desperate  condition  of  human  nature, 
and  the  ineffably  tender  solicitude  of  Christ,  in 
what  He  delivered  us  from,  and  what  He  freely 
gave  us,  and  kindled  by  the  yearning  of  affec- 
tion towards  Him,  he  thus  expresses  himself. 
Thus  the  Prophets  often  appropriate  to  them- 
selves Him  who  is  God  of  all,  as  in  the  words, 
"OGod,  thou  art  my  God,  early  will  I  seek 
Thee."  (Psalm  lxiii :  1.)  Moreover,  this  lan- 
guage teaches  that  each  individual  justly  owes 
as  a  great  debt  of  gratitude  to  Christ,  as  if  He 
had  come  for  his  sake  alone,  for  He  would  not 
have  grudged  this  His  condescension  though  but 
for  one,  so  that  the  measure  of  His  love  to  each 
is  as  great  as  to  the  whole  world.  Truly  the 
Sacrifice  was  offered  for  all  mankind,1  an.d  was 
sufficient  to  save  all,  but  those  who  enjoy  the 
blessing  are  the  believing  only.  Nevertheless  it 
did  not  deter  Him  from  His  so  great  condescen- 
sion, that  not  all  would  come ;  but  He  acted 
after  the  pattern  of  the  supper  in  the  Gospel, 
which  He  prepared  for  all,  (Luke  xiv :  16.) 
yet  when  the  guests  came  not,  instead  of  with- 
drawing the  viands,  He  called  in  others.  So 
too  He  did  not  despise  that  sheep,  though  one 
only, which  had  strayed  from  the  ninety  and  nine. 
(Mat.  xviii :    12.)     This  too  in  like  manner  St. 


Paul  intimates,  when  he  says,  speaking  about 
the  Jews,  "For  what  if  some  were  without 
faith,  shall  their  want  of  faith  make  of  none 
effect  the  faithfulness  of  God?  God  forbid  : 
yea  let  God  be  found  true,  but  every  man  a 
liar."  (Rom.  iii:  3,  4.)  When  He  so  loved 
thee  as  to  give  Himself  up  to  bring  thee  who 
wast  without  hope  to  a  life  so  great  and  blessed, 
canst  thou,  thus  gifted,  have  recourse  to  things 
gone  by?  His  reasoning  being  completed,  he 
concludes  with  a  vehment  asseveration,  saying, 

Ver.  21.  "I  do  not  make  void  the  grace  of 
God."3 

Let  those,  who  even  now  Judaize  and  adhere 
to  the  Law,  listen  to  this,  for  it  applies  to  them. 

Ver.  21.  "For  if  righteousness  is  through 
the  law,  then  Christ  died  for  naught." 

What  can  be  more  heinous  than  this  sin  ?  4 
what  more  fit  to  put  one  to  shame  than  these 
words  ?  Christ's  death  is  a  plain  proof  of  the 
inability  of  the  Law  to  justify  us ;  and  if  it  does 
justify,  then  is  His  death  superfluous.  Yet  how 
could  it  be  reasonable  to  say  that  has  been  done 
heedlessly  and  in  vain  which  is  so  awful,  so  sur- 
passing human  reason,  a  mystery  so  ineffable, 
with  which  Patriarchs  travailed,  which  Proph- 
ets foretold,  which  Angels  gazed  on  with  con- 
sternation, which  all  men  confess  as  the  summit 
of  the  Divine  tenderness?  Reflecting  how 
utterly  out  of  place  it  would  be  if  they  should 
say  that  so  great  and  high  a  deed  had  been 
done  superfluously,  (for  this  is  what  their  con- 
duct came  to,)  he  even  uses  violent  language 
against  them,  as  we  find  in  the  words  which 
follow. 


CHAPTER  III. 


VERSE    I. 


41 0  foolish   Galatians,*  who   did   bewitch   you,    before 
whose  eyes  Jesus  Christ  was  openly  set  forth,  cruci- 
fied?" 

Here  he  passes  to  another  subject ;  in  the 
former  chapters  he  had  shown  himself  not  to  be 
an  Apostle  of  men,  nor  by  men,  nor  in  want  of 
Apostolic  instruction.  Now,  having  established 
his  authority  as  a  teacher,  he  proceeds  to  dis- 

1  ["Chrysostom  teaches  that  God  foreordained  all  men  to  holiness 
and  salvation  and  that  Christ  died  for  all  and  is  both  willing  and 
able  to  save  all.  but  not  against  their  will."— Schaff,  Proleg.  p.  ao. 
-G.A.] 

■  ["  Paul  addresses  himself  again  directly  to  the  Galatians  with  an 
expression  of  indignant  surprise  at  their  relapse  into  Judaism 
and  passes  from  the  historical  to  the  doctrinal  part  of  the  Epis- 
tle, iron  the  apology  of  his  apostolic  authority  to  the  defense  of 
kb  apostolic  teaching."— Schaff  in  Pop.  Com.—G.  A.  J 


course  more  confidently,  and  draws  a  compari- 
son between  faith  and  the  Law.  At  the  outset 
he  said,  "I  marvel  that  ye  are  so  quickly 
removing  ;  "  (Gal.  i :  6.)  but  here,  "  O  foolish 
Galatians;"  then,  his  indignation  was    in  its 


'  ["Negative  side  of  the  life  which  Paul  (from  ver.  19)  has  de- 
scribed as  his  own.  By  this  negative,  with  the  grave  reason 
assigned  for  it  in  the  latter  part  of  the  verse,  the  perverse  conduct 
of  Peter  is  completely  condemned." — Meyer. — G.  A.] 

4  T  "  This  blasphemous  inference  gives  the  finishing  stroke  to 
the  false  Judaizing  gospel. 

"This  collision  between  Peter  and  Paul  furnished  material  to  the 
Ebionites  for  an  attack  upon  Paul,  to  the  Gnostics  for  an  attack 
upon  the  Jewish  apostles  and  to  Porphyry  for  an  attack  upon 
Christianity  itself  [as  well  as  to  Baur  and  the  Tubingen  school  for 
an  attack  in  modern  times  from  a  different  standpoint].  But 
Christianity  has  surveyed  all  these  attacks  and  gains  new  strength 
from  every  conflict." — Schaff.— G.  A.] 


24 


WORKS  OF  ST.  CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Chapter  III. 


birth,  but  now,  after  his  refutation  of  the 
charges  against  himself,  and  his  proofs,  it  bursts 
forth.  Let  not  his  calling  them  "  foolish  "  sur- 
prise you;  for  it  is  not  a  transgression  of 
Christ's  command  not  to  call  one's  brother  a 
fool,  but  rather  a  strict  observance  of  it.  For 
it  is  not  said  simply,  ' '  Whosoever  shall  say  to 
his  brother,  Thou  fool,"  (Mat.  v:  22.)  but, 
whosoever  shall  do  so,  "without  a  cause."1 
And  who  more  fittingly  than  they  could  so  be 
called,  who  after  so  great  events,  adhered  to 
past  things,  as  if  nothing  else  had  ever  hap- 
pened ?  If  on  this  account  Paul  is  to  be  called 
a  "  reviler,"  Peter  may  likewise,  on  account 
of  Annanias  and  Sapphira,  be  called  a  homi- 
cide ;  but  as  it  would  be  wildness  to  do  so  in 
that  case,  much  more  in  this.  Moreover  it  is 
to  be  considered,  that  this  vehemence  is  not 
used  at  the  beginning,  but  after  these  evidences 
and  proofs,  which,  rather  than  Paul  himself, 
might  now  be  held  to  administer  the  rebuke. 
For  after  he  had  shown  that  they  rejected  the 
faith,  and  made  the  death  of  Christ  to  be  with- 
out a  purpose,  he  introduces  his  reproof,  which, 
even  as  it  is,  is  less  severe  than  they  merited. 
Observe  too  how  soon  he  stays  his  arm  ;  for  he 
adds  not,  Who  has  seduced  you  ?  who  has  per- 
verted you  ?  who  has  been  sophistical  with  you  ? 
but,  "  Who  hath  cast  an  envious  eye  on  you?  " 
thus  tempering  his  reprimand  with  somewhat  of 
praise.  For  it  implies  that  their  previous  course 
had  excited  jealousy, 2  and  that  the  present 
occurrence  arose  from  the  malignity  of  a  demon, 
whose  breath  had  blasted  their  prosperous 
estate. 

And  when  you  hear  of  jealousy  in  this  place, 
and  in  the  Gospel,  of  an  evil  eye,  which  means 
the  same,  you"  must  not  suppose  that  the  glance 
of  the  eye  has  any  natural  power  to  injure  those 
who  look  upon  it.  For  the  eye,  that  is,  the 
organ  itself,  cannot  be  evil ;  but  Christ  in  that 
place  means  jealousy  by  the  term.  To  behold, 
simply,  is  the  function  of  the  eye,  but  to  behold 
in  an  evil  manner  belongs  to  a  mind  depraved 
within.  As  through  this  sense  the  knowledge 
of  visible  objects  enters  the  soul,  and  as  jeal- 
ousy is  for  the  most  part  generated  by  wealth, 
and  wealth  and  sovereignty  and  pomp  are  per- 
ceived by  the  eye,  therefore  he  calls  the  eye 
evil ;  not  as  beholding  merely,  but  as  behold- 
ing enviously  from  some  moral  depravity. 
Therefore  by  the  words,  "  Who  hath  looked 
enviously  on  you,"  he  implies  that  the  persons 
in  question  acted,  not  from  concern,  nottosup- 


1  [The  word  «i*nj,  '  without  a  cause/  occurs  In  the  ttxtns  recep- 
tus  on  inferior  authority  in  connection  with  the  words  'whoso- 
ever shall  be  angry  with  his  brother'  (without  a  cause),  but  no 
where  with  the  words,  « whosoever  shall  say.  Thou  fool/  as  Chrys. 
here  connects  them.— G.  A.] 

*  ["  The  word  means  « to  bewitch  by  words,  to  enchant/  and  is 
not  to  be  explained  with  Chrysostom,  '  who  has  envied  you  ?  *  that 
is,  your  previous  happy  condition?  " — Meyer.— G.  A.] 


ply  defects,  but  to  mutilate  what  existed.  For 
envy,  far  from  supplying  what  is  wanting,  sub- 
tracts from  what  is  complete,  and  vitiates  the 
whole.  And  he  speaks  thus,  not  as  if  envy  had 
any  power  of  itself,  but  meaning,  that  the 
teachers  of  these  doctrines  did  so  from  envious 
motives. 

Ver.  1.  "  Before  whose  eyes  Jesus  Christ  was 
openly  set  forth,  crucified." 

Yet  was  He  riot  crucified  in  Galatia,  but  at 
Jerusalem.  His  reason  for  saying,  "  among 
you,"3  is  to  declare  the  power  of  faith  to  see 
events  which  are  at  a  distance.  He  says  not, 
"crucified,"  but,  "openly  set  forth  crucified," 
signifying  that  by  the  eye  of  faith  they  saw 
more  distinctly  than  some  who  were  present  as 
spectators.  For  many  of  the  latter  received  no 
benefit,  but  the  former,  who  were  not  eye-wit- 
nesses, yet  saw  it  by  faith  more  clearly.  These 
words  convey  both  praise  and  blame;  praise, 
for  their  implicit  acceptance  of  the  truth; 
blame,  because  Him  whom  they  had  seen,  for 
their  sakes,  stripped  naked,  transfixed,  nailed 
to  the.  cross,  spit  upon,  mocked,  fed  with  vine- 
gar, upbraided  by  thieves,  pierced  with  a  spear ; 
(for  all  this  is  implied  in  the  words,  "openly 
set  forth,  crucified,")4  Him  had  they  left,  and 
betaken  themselves  to  the  Law,  un shamed  by 
any  of  those  sufferings.  Here  observe  how 
Paul,  leaving  all  mention  of  heaven,  earth,  and 
sea,  every  where  preaches  the  power  of  Christ, 
bearing  about  as  he  did,  and  holding  up  His 
cross :  for  this  is  the  sum  of  the  Divine  love 
toward  us. 

Ver  2.  "  This  only  would  I  learn  from  you, 
Received  ye  the  Spirit  by  the  works  of  the  Law, 
or  by  the  hearing  of  faith?  " 

As  ye  do  not  attend,  says  he,  to  long  dis- 
courses, nor  are  willing  to  contemplate  the  mag- 
nitude of  this  Economy,  I  am  desirous,  (seeing 
your  extreme  ignorance,)  to  convince  you  by 
concise  arguments  and  a  summary  method  of 
proof.  Before,  he  had  convinced  them  by  what 
he  said  to  Peter ;  now,  he  encounters  them 
entirely  with  arguments,  drawn  not  from  what 
had  occurred  elsewhere,  but  from  what  had 
happened  among  themselves.6  And  his  persua- 
sives and  proofs  are  adduced,  not  merely  from 
what  was  given  them  in  common  with  others, 
but  from  what  was  especially  conferred  on  them- 
selves. Therefore  he  says,  "This  only  would 
I  learn  from  you,  Received  ye  the  Spirit  by  the 
works  of  the  Law,  or  by  the  hearing  of  faith." 
Ye  have  received,  he  says,  the  Holy  Spirit,  ye 

'  [Ev  vfi.iv  is  spurious,  being  omitted  by  Aleph.  A.  B.  C.  versions, 
Fathers,  and  Rev.  Ver.  as  well  as  by  W.  and  H. — G.  A.] 

*["  This  signifies  the  life-like  pictorial  vivacity  and  effectiveness 
of  Paul's  preaching  of  Christ  and  Him  crucified.  The  Greek  verb 
is  used  of  placarding  public  notices  and  proclamations."— Schaff. 
— G.  A.] 

*  [••  See  how  effectually  he  treats  the  topic  from  (their  own) 
experience." — Luther,  quoted  by  Meyer.    G.  A.] 


Chapter  III.] 


COMMENTARY  ON  GALATIANS. 


25 


have  done  many  mighty  works,  ye  have  effected 
miracles  in  raising  the  dead,  in  cleansing  lepers, 
in  prophesying,  in  speaking  with  tongues, — did 
the  Law  confer  this  great  power  upon  you  ?  was 
it  not  rather  Faith,  seeing  that,  before,  ye  could 
do  no  such  things?  Is  it  not  then  the  height  of 
madness  for  these  who  have  received  such  bene- 
fits from  Faith,  to  abandon  it,  and  desert  back 
to  the  Law  which  can  offer  you .  nothing  of  the 
same  kind  ? 

Ver.  3.  "  Are  ye  so  foolish?  having  begun  in 
the  Spirit,  are  ye  now  perfected  in  the  flesh  ?" 

Here  again  he  seasonably  interposes  a  rebuke ; 
time,  he  says,  should  have  brought  improve- 
ment; but,  so  far  from  advancing,  ye  have 
even  retrograded.  Those  who  start  from  small 
beginnings  make  progress  to  higher  things ;  ye, 
who  began  with  the  high,  have  relapsed  to  the 
low.  Even  had  your  outset  been  carnal,  your 
advance  should  have  been  spiritual,  but  now, 
after  starting  from  things  spiritual,  ye  have 
ended  your  journey  in  that  which  is  carnal ;  for 
to  work  miracles  is  spiritual,  but  to  be  circum- 
cised is  carnal.  And  after  miracles  ye  have 
passed  to  circumcision,  after  having  appre- 
hended the  truth  ye  have  fallen  back  to  types, 
after  gazing  on  the  sun  ye  seek  a  candle,  after 
having  strong  meat  ye  run  for  milk.  He  says, 
"made  perfect,"1  which  means  not  "initiated" 
merely,  but  "sacrificed,"  signifying  that  their 
teachers  took  and  slew  them  like  animals,  while 
they  resigned  themselves  to  suffer  what  those 
teachers  pleased.  As  if  some  captain,  or  dis- 
tinguished man,  after  a  thousand  victories  and 
trophies,  were  to  subject  himself  to  infamy  as 
a  deserter,  and  offer  his  body  to  be  branded  at 
the  will  of  others. 

Ver.  4.  "Did  ye  suffer  so  many  things  in 
vain?2  if  it  be  indeed  in  vain." 

This  remark  is  far  more  piercing   than  the 

former,  for  the  remembrance  of  their  miracles 

would  not  be  so  powerful  as  the  exhibition  of 

their  contests  and  endurance  of  sufferings  for 

Christ's  sake.     All  that  you  have  endured,  says 

he,  these  men  would  strip  you  of,  and  would 

rob  you  of  your  crown.     Then,  lest  he  should 

dismay  and  unnerve,  he  proceeds  not  to  a  formal 

judgment,  but  subjoins,    "if  it  be  indeed  in 


1  [This  distinction  between  rcAfo  and  cirtrcAfa  was  not  in  the 
mind  of  the  Apostle.  The  contrast  with  eyap£aM<roi,  'having  be- 
gan/ shows  that  itr  t*A«1<tO<  simply  means  'are  ye  made  perfect/ 
"  the  compound  involving  the  idea  of  bringing  to  a  '  complete  and 
perfect'  end/*  (EllicottJ  There  may  be  a  slight  tinge  of  irony 
fa  the  compound  word. — G.  A.] 

*  [••  As  we  know  nothing  of  persecutions  endured  by  Galatians,  it 
seems  preferable  to  take  the  word  in  a  neutral  sense  embracing  all 
spiritual  experiences  f  blessings  and  benefits  as  well)  of  the  Gala- 
tians. (Comp.v.3  and  o.)"—  Schaff.  Lightfoot  refers  it  to  the  persecu- 
tions endured  by  the  Galatians  from  Jews  citing  Gal.  v  :  11;  and  says 
"the  ii  y*  leaves  a  loophole  for  doubt  which  the  (tat,  following, 
widens"  So  EUicott.  Meyer  says,  "It  refers  to  everything  which 
the  false  apostles  in  their  Judaistic  zeal  had  troubled  and  burdened 
the  Galatians  with.  Theti«q  then  means  **  and  all  to  no  profit,  all  in 
vain,"  if  indeed  it  be  only  (*at)  in  vain  and  not  to  the  positive 
tisk  of  your  Messianic  «u  vat  ion  that  ye  have  suffered." — G.  A.] 


vain ;  "  if  you  have  but  a  mind  to  shake  off 
drowsiness  and  recover  yourselves,  he  says,  it 
is  not  in  vain.  Where  then  be  those  who  would 
cut  off  repentance8  ?  Here  were  men  who  had 
received  the  Spirit,  worked  miracles,  become 
confessors,  encountered  a  thousand  perils  and 
persecutions  for  Christ's  sake,  and  after  so  many 
achievements  had  fallen  from  grace ;  neverthe- 
less he  says,  if  ye  have  the  purpose,  ye  may 
recover  yourselves. 

Ver.  5.  "He  therefore  that  supplieth  to  you 
the  Spirit,  and  worketh  miracles  among  you, 
doeth  he  it  by  the  works  of  the  law,  or  by  the 
hearing  of  faith?  "" 

Have  ye  been  vouchsafed,  he  says,  so  great  a 
gift,  and  achieved  such  wonders,  because  ye 
observed  the  Law,  or  because  ye  adhered  to 
Faith  ?  plainly  on  account  of  Faith.  Seeing 
that  they  played  this  argument  to  and  fro,  that 
apart  from  the  Law,  Faith  had  no  force,  he 
proves  the  contrary,  viz.,  that  if  the  Command- 
ments be  added,  Faith  no  longer  avails;  for 
Faith  then  has  efficacy  when  things  from  the 
Law  are  not  added  to  it.  "  Ye  who  would  be 
justified  by  the  Law,  ye  are  fallen  away  from 
grace:"  (Gal.  v:  4.)  This  he  says  later, 
when  his  language  has  grown  bolder,  employ- 
ing the  vantage-ground  by  that  time  gained  ; 
meanwhile  while  gaining  it,  he  argues  from 
their  past  experience.  For  it  was  when  ye 
obeyed  Faith,  he  says,  not  the  Law,  that  ye  re- 
ceived the  Spirit  and  wrought  miracles. 

And  here,  as  the  Law  was  the  subject  of  dis- 
cussion, he  moots  another  special  point  of  con- 
troversy, and  very  opportunely  and  with  much 
cogency  introduces  a  notice  of  Abraham. 

Ver.  6.  "  Even  as  Abraham  believed  God, 
and  it  was  reckoned  unto  him  for  righteous- 


ness. 


»» 


Even  the  miracles  done  by  themselves,  he 
says,  declare  the  power  of  Faith,  but  I  shall  at- 
tempt if  you  will  suffer  me  to  draw  my  proofs 
from  ancient  narratives  also.  Then,  as  they 
made  great  account  of  the  Patriarch,  he  brings 
his  example  forward,  and  shows  that  he  too  was 
justified  by  Faith.4  And  if  he  who  was  before 
grace,  was  justified  by  Faith,  although  plentiful 
in  works,  much  more  we.  For  what  loss  was 
it  to  him,  not  being  under  the  Law  ?  None, 
for  his  faith  sufficed  unto  righteousness.  The 
Law  did  not  then  exist,  he  says,  neither  does  it 
now  exist,  any  more  than  then.  In  disproving 
the  need  of  the  Law,  he  introduces  one  who 
was  justified  before  the  Law,  lest  an  objection 
should  also  be  made  to  him  ;  for  as  then  it  was 

•  The  Novatians,  who  said  the  revealed  covenant  of  grace  did 
not  provide  for  the  case  of  the  lapsed. 

4  f"  The  answer,  obvious  of  itself,  to  the  preceding  question, 
is  t{  axoqf  irio-TetaK,  'from  the  hearing  of  faith,'  and  to  this  Paul 
subjoins  that  great  religious-historic  argument  for  the  righteousness 
of  faith  which  is  presented  in  the  justification  of  the  progenitor  of 
the  theocratic  people."— Meyer.—G.  A.] 


26 


WORKS  OF  ST.  CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Chapter  IIL 


not  yet  given,  so  now,  having  been  given,  it 
was  abrogated.  And  as  they  made  much  of 
their  descent  from  Abraham,  and  feared  lest, 
abandoning  the  Law,  they  should  be  considered 
strangers  to  his  kin  ;  Paul  removes  this  fear  by 
turning  their  argument  against  themselves,  and 
proves  that  faith  is  especially  concerned  in  con- 
necting them  with  Abraham.  He  draws  out 
this  argument  more  at  length  in  the  Epistle  to 
the  Romans  ;  however  he  urges  it  also  here  in, 
the  words, 

Ver.  7.  "  Know  therefore,  that  they  which 
be  of  faith,  the  same  are  sons  of  Abraham." 

Which  he  proves  by  ancient  testimony  thus : 

Ver.  8.  "  And  the  Scripture,1  foreseeing  that 
God  would  justify  the  Gentiles  by  faith,  preached 
the  Gospel  beforehand  unto  Abraham,  saying, 
In  thee  shall  all  the  nations  be  blessed." 

If  then  those  were  Abraham's  sons,  not,  who 
were  related  to  him  by  blood,  but  who  follow 
his  faith,  for  this  is  the  meaning  of  the  words, 
"  In  thee  all  the  nations,"  it  is  plain  that  the 
heathen  are  brought  into  kindred  with  him. 

Hereby  too  is  proved  another  important  point. 
It  perplexed  them  that  the  Law  was  the  older, 
and  Faith  afterwards.  Now  he  removes  this 
notion  by  showing  that  Faith  was  anterior  to  the 
Law  ;  as  is  evident  from  Abraham's  case,  who 
was  justified  before  the  giving  of  the  Law.  He 
shows  too  that  late  events  fell  out  according  to 
prophecy;  "The  Scripture,"  says  he,  "fore- 
seeing that  God  would  justify  the  Gentiles  by 
faith,  preached  the  Gospel  beforehand  unto 
Abraham."  Attend  to  this  point.  He  Himself 
who  gave  the  Law,  had  decreed,  before  He  gave 
it,  that  the  heathen  should  be  justified  by  Faith. 
And  he  says  not  "revealed,"  but,  "preached 
the  Gospel,"  to  signify  that  the  patriarch  was 
in  joy  at  this  method  of  justification,  and  in 
great  desire  for  its  accomplishment. 

Further,  they  were  possessed  with  another 
apprehension;  it  was  written,  "Cursed  is  every 
one  that  continueth  not  in  all  things  that  are 
written  in  the  book  of  the  Law,  to  do  them." 
(Deut.  xxvii :  26.)  And  this  he  removes,  with 
great  skill  and  prudence,  turning  their  argument 
against  themselves,  and  showing  that  those  who 
relinquish  the  Law  are  not  only  not  cursed,  but 
blessed;  and  they  who  keep  it,  not  only  not 
blessed  but  cursed.  They  said  that  he  who  kept 
not  the  Law  was  cursed,  but  he  proves  that  he 
who  kept  it  was  cursed,  and  he  who  kept  it  not, 
blessed.  Again,  they  said  that  he  who  adhered 
to  Faith  alone  was  cursed,  but  he  shows  that  he 
who  adhered  to  Faith  alone,  is  blessed.  And 
how  does  he  prove  all  this  ?  for  it  is  no  common 
thing  which  we  have  promised ;  wherefore  it  is 

1  ["  The  Scripture  personified.  The  only  case  in  N.  T.  where 
the  personification  of  Scripture  goes  beyond  Aeyci  or  *lw*¥."  etc. 
— Light  foot.— G.  A] 


necessary  to  give  close  attention  to  what  follows. 
He  had  already  shown  this,  by  referring  to  the 
words  spoken  to  the  Patriarch,  "  In  thee  shall 
all  nations  be  blessed,"  (Gen.  xii:  4.)  at  a 
time,  that  is,  when  Faith  existed,  not  the  Law ; 
so  he  adds  by  way  of  conclusion, 

Ver.  9.  "So  then  they  which  be  of  faith  are 
blessed  with  the  faithful  Abraham."2 

Then,  that  they  might  not  turn  round,  and 
object  that,  true  it  was  Abraham  was  justified  by 
Faith,  for  the  Law  was  not  then  given,  but 
what  instance  would  be  found  of  Faith  justi- 
fying after  the  delivery  of  the  Law  ?  he  addresses 
himself  to  this,  and  proves  more  than  they 
required  :  namely,  not  only  that  Faith  was  justi- 
fying, but  that  the  Law  brought  its  adherents 
under  a  curse.  To  be  sure  of  this,  listen  to 
the  very  words  of  the  Apostle. 

Ver.  10.  "  For3  as  many  as  are  of  the  works 
of  the  Law  are  under  a  curse." 

This  is  what  he  lays  down,  before  proving  it ; 
and  what  is  the  proof?  it  is  from  the  Law 
itself: — 

Ver.  10,  11.  "For  it  is  written,  Cursed  is 
every  one  that  continueth  not  in  all  things  that 
are  written  in  the  book  of  the  Law  to  do  them. 
Now  that  no  man  is  justified  by  the  Law  is 
evident." 

For  all  have  sinned,  and  are  under  the  curse. 

However  he  does  not  say  this  yet,  lest  he 
should  seem  to  lay  it  down  of  himself,  but  here 
again  establishes  his  point  by  a  text  which  con- 
cisely states  both  points  ;  that  no  man  has  ful- 
filled the  Law,  (wherefore  they  are  under  the 
curse,)  and,  that  Faith  justifies.  What  then  is 
the  text?  It  is  in  the  bopk  of  the  prophet 
Habakkuk,  "The  just  shall  live  by  faith," 
(Hab.  ii :  4.)  which  not  only  establishes  the 
righteousness  that  is  of  Faith,  but  also  that  there 
is  no  salvation  through  the  Law.  As  no  one,  he 
says,  kept  the  Law,  but  all  were  under  the  curse, 
on  account  of  transgression,  an  easy  way  was 
provided,  that  from  Faith,  which  is  in  itself  a 
strong  proof  that  no  man  can  be  justified  by  the 
Law.  For  the  prophet  says  not,  "The  just 
shall  live  by  the  Law,"  but,"  by  faith  :  " 

Ver.  12.  "And  the  Law  is  not  of  faith ;  but 
He  that  doeth  them  shall  live  in  them." 

For  the  Law  requires  not  only  Faith  but 
works  also,  but  grace  saves  and  justifies  by 
Faith.  (Eph.  ii  :  8.) 

•  ["  After  having  pointed  out  from  Scripture  v.  6  and  7,  that  none 
other  than  believers  are  sons  of  Abraham,  Paul  now  shows  further 
from  Scripture  that  none  other  than  believers  have  a  share  in  Abra- 
ham's blessing,  i.  e.,  are  justified." — Meyer. — O.  A.] 

"["  Having  shown  by  postivc  proof  that  justification  is  of  faith,  he 
adds  the  negative  argument  derived  from  the  impossibility  of  main- 
taining its  opposite,  namely,  justification  by  I,aw.  This  negative 
argument  is  twofold  : 

First,  it  is  impossible  to  fulfill  the  requirements  of  the  law  and 
nonfulfillment  lays  us  under  a  curse  (Ver.  10)  ;  Secondly,  supposing 
the  fulfilment. possible,  still  the  spirit  of  the  Law  is  antagonistic  to 
faith,  which  is  elsewhere  spoken  of  as  the  source  of  life.  (Ver.  ix 
and  ia)."— Lightfoot.— G.  A.] 


Chapter  III.] 


COMMENTARY  ON  GALATIANS. 


27 


You  see  how  he  proves  that  they  are  under 
the  curse  who  cleave  to  the  Law,  because  it  is 
impossible  to  fulfill  it ;  next,  how  comes  Faith 
to  have  this  justifying  power  ?  for  to  this  doct- 
rine he  already  stood  pledged,  and  now  main- 
tains it  with  great  force  of  argument.  The  Law 
being  too  weak  to  lead  man  to  righteousness,  an 
effectual  remedy  was  provided  in  Faith,  which 
is  the'  means  of  rendering  that  possible  which 
was  "  impossible  by  the  Law."  (Rom.  viii :  3.) 
Now  as  the  Scripture  says,  "  the  just  shall  live 
by  faith,"  thus  repudiating  salvation  by  the 
Law,  and  moreover  as  Abraham  was  justified  by 
Faith,  it  is  evident  that  its  efficacy  is  very 
great.  And  it  is  also  clear,  that  he  who  abides 
not  by  the  Law  is  cursed,  and  that  he  who 
keeps  to  Faith  is  just.  But,  you  may  ask  me, 
how  I  prove  that  this  curse  is  not  still  of  force  ? 
Abraham  lived  before  the  Law,  but  we,  who 
once  were  subject  to  the  yoke  of  bondage,  have 
made  ourselves  liable  to  the  curse ;  and  who 
shall  release  us  therefrom  ?  Observe  his  ready 
answer  to  this ;  his  former  remark  was  suffi- 
cient ;  for,  if  a  man  be  once  justified,  and  has 
died  to  the  Law  and  embraced  a  novel  life,  how 
can  such  a  one  be  subject  to  the  curse?  however, 
this  is  not  enough  for  him,  so  he  begins  with  a 
fresh  argument,  as  follows : — 

Ver.  13.  "  Christ  redeemed  us  from  the 
curse  of  the  Law,  having  become  a  curse  for  us: 
for  it  is  written,  Cursed  is  every  one  that  hang- 
ethon  a  tree."  * 

In  reality,  the  people  were  subject  to  another 
curse,  which  says,  ' '  Cursed  is  every  one  that 
continueth  not  in  the  things  that  are  written  in 
the  book  of  the  Law."  (Deut.  xxvii:  26.)  To 
this  curse,  I  say,  people  were  subject,  for  no 
man  had  continued  in,  or  was  a  keeper  of,  the 
whole  Law ;  but  Christ  exchanged  this  curse  for 
the  other,  "Cursed  is  everyone  that  hangeth  on 
a  tree."  As  then  both  he  who  hanged  on  a  tree, 
and  he  who  transgresses  the  Law,  is  cursed,  and 
as  it  was  necessary  for  him  who  is  about  to  re- 
lieve from  a  curse  himself  to  be  free  from  it, 
but  to  receive  another  instead  of  it,  therefore 
Christ  took  opon  Him  such  another,  and  there- 
by relieved  us  from  the  curse.  It  was  like  an 
innocent  man's  undertaking  to  die  for  another 
sentenced  to  death,  and  so  rescuing  him  from 
punishment.  For  Christ  took  upon  Him  not 
the  curse  of  transgression,  but  the  other  curse, 
in  order  to  remove  that  of  others.  For, ' '  He  had 
done  no  violence  neither  was  any  deceit  in  His 
mouth."    (Isa.  liii:  9;   1  Peter  ii :   22.)     And 

'["A  parenthetic  justification  from  Deut.  xxi :  23  of  the  start  - 
ling  expression  just  used.  The  passage  refers  to  those  criminals 
who,  after  being  stoned,  were  hung  upon  a  stake,  but  were  not 
permitted  to  remain  over  night  lest  the  holy  land  should  be  dese- 
crated. Our  Saviour  fulfilled  the  legal  curse  by  hanging  dead  on 
tic  cross.  This  is  one  of  the  strongest  passages  for  the  doctrine 
of  a  vicarious  atonement.  The  vicarious  efficacy  lies  not  so  much 
*■  the  preposition,  vWp,'  'for/  as  in  the  whole  sentence." — Schaff 
-G.  A.J 


as  by  dying  He  rescued  from  death  those  who 
were  dying,  so  by  taking  upon  Himself  the 
curse,  He  delivered  them  from  it. 

Ver.  14.  "That  upon  the  Gentiles  might 
come  the  blessing  of  Abraham." 

How  on  the  Gentiles?  It  is  said,  "In  thy  seed 
shall  all  the  nations  of  the  earth  be  blessed  :  " 
(Gen.  xxii :  18;  xxvi :  4.)  that  is  to  say,  in 
Christ.  If  this  were  said  of  the  Jews,  how 
would  it  be  reasonable  that  they  who  were  them- 
selves subject  to  the  curse,  on  account  of  trans- 
gression, should  become  the  authors  of  a  bless- 
ing to  others?  an  accursed  person  cannot 
impart  to  others  that  blessing  of  which  he  is 
himself  deprived.  Plainly  then  it  all  refers  to 
Christ  who  was  the  Seed  of  Abraham,  and 
through  whom  the  Gentiles  are  blessed.  And 
thus  the  promise  of  the  Spirit  is  added,  as  Paul 
himself  declares,  "that  we  might  receive  the 
promise  of  the  Spirit  through  faith."2  As  the 
grace  of  the  Spirit  could  not  possibly  descend 
on  the  graceless  and  offending,  they  are  first 
blessed  the  curse  having  been  removed ;  then 
being  justified  by  faith,  they  draw  unto  them- 
selves the  grace  of  the  Spirit.  Thus  the  Cross 
removed  the  curse,  Faith  brought  in  righteous- 
ness, righteousness  drew  on  the  grace  of  the 
Spirit. 

Ver.  15.  "  Brethren,  I  speak  after  the  man- 
ner of  men  ;  Though  it  be  but  a  man's  covenant, 
yet  when  it  hath  been  confirmed,  no  one  mak- 
eth  it  void  or  addeth  thereto." 

"  To  speak  after  the  manner  of  men  "  means 
to  use  human  examples.3  Having  founded  his 
argument  on  the  Scriptures,  on  the  miracles 
wrought  among  themselves,  on  the  sufferings  of 
Christ,  and  on  the  Patriarch,  he  proceeds  to 
common  usages  \  and  this  he  does  invariably, 
in  order  to  sweeten  his  discourse,  and  render  it 
more  acceptable  and  intelligible  to  the  duller 
sort.  Thus  he  argues  with  the  Corinthians, 
"  Who  feedeth  a  flock,  and  eateth  not  of  the 
milk  of  the  flock?  Who  planteth  a  vineyard, 
and  eateth  not  the  fruit  thereof?  "  (1  Cor.  ix: 
7.)  and  again  with  the  Hebrews,  "For  a  testa- 
ment is  of  force  where  there  hath  been  death ; 
for  doth  it  ever  avail  while  he  that  made  it  liv- 
eth?"  (Heb.  ix:  17.)  One  may  find  him 
dwelling  with  pleasure  on  such  arguments.  In 
the  Old  Testament  God  does  the  same  thing  in 
many  instances,  as,  "  Can  a  woman  forget  her 
sucking  child?"  (Isa.  xlix:  15.)  and  again, 
"Shall  the  clay  say  to  him  that  fashioneth  it, 
What  makest  thou?"  (Isa.  xlv :  9.)  and  in 
Hosea,  He  represents  a  husband  set  at  nought 
by  his  wife.  (Hos.  ii :  5,  f.)     This  use  of  human 

•  ["  After  a  wondrous  chain  of  arguments  *  *  the  apostle 
comes  back  to  the  subject  of  verse  2  :  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost 
came  through  faith  in  Christ." — Ellicott. — G.  A.] 

'  ["  Paul  now  assumes  a  milder  tone  and  reasons  from  the  com- 
mon  dealings  of  men." — Schaff. — G.  A.J 


28 


WORKS  OF  ST.  CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Ch, 


examples  frequency  occurs  in  types  also,  as 
when  the  prophet  takes  the  girdle,  (Jer.  xiii : 
1-9.)  and  goes  down  to  the  potter's  house. 
(Jer.  xviii :  1-6.)  Tliemeaningof  the  present 
example  is,  that  Faith  is  more  ancient  than  the 
Law,  which  is  later  and  only  temporary,  and 
delivered  in  order  to  pave  the  way  for  Faith. 
Hence  he  says,  "Brethren,  I  speak  after  the 
manner  of  men;"  above  he  had  called  them 
"foolish,"  now  he  calls  them  "brethren,"  at 
once  chiding  and  encouraging  them.  "Though 
it  be  but  a  man's  covenant,  yet  when  it  hath 
been  confirmed."  If  a  man,  says  he,  makes  a 
covenant,  does  anyone  dare  to  come  afterwards 
and  overturn  it,  or  subjoin  aught  to  it  ?  for  this 
is  the  meaning  of  "or  addeth  thereto."  Much 
less  then  when  God  makes  a  covenant ;  and  with 
whom  did  God  make  a  covenant? 

Ver.  16,  if,  18.  "Now  to  Abraham  were 
the  promises  spoken  and  to  his  seed.  He  saith 
not,  And  to  seeds,1  as  of  many  ;  but  as  of  One, 
And  to  thy  seed,  which  is  Christ.1  Now  this  I 
say,  A  covenant,  confirmed  before  hand  by 
God  the  Law,  which  came  four  hundred  and 
thirty  years  after,  doth  not  disannul,  so  as  to 
make  the  promise  of  none  effect.  For  if  the 
inheritance  is  of  the  Law,  it  is  no  more  of 
promise  :  but  God  hath  granted  it  to  Abraham 
by  promise." 

Thus  God  made  a  covenant  with  Abraham, 
promising  that  in  his  seed  the  blessing  should 
come  upon  the  heathen  ;  and  this  blessing  the 
Law  cannot  turn  aside.  As  this  example  was 
not  in  all  respects  appropriate  to  the  matter  in 
hand,  he  introduces  it  thus,  "  I  speak  after  the 
manner  of  men,"  that  nothing  might  be  deduced 
from  it  derogatory  to  the  majesty  of  God.  But 
let  us  go  to  the  bottom  of  this  illustration.  It 
was  promised  Abraham  that  by  his  seed  the 
heathen  should  be  blessed ;  and  his  seed  accord- 
ing to  the  flesh  is  Christ;  four  hundred  and 
thirty  years  after  came  the  Law ;  now,  if  the 
Law  bestows  the  blessings  even  life  and  right- 
eousness, that  promise  is  annulled.  And  so 
while  no  one  annuls  a  man's  covenant,  the 
covenant  of  God  after  four  hundred  and  thirty 
years  is  annulled  ;  for  if  not  that  covenant  but 
another  instead  of  it  bestows  what  is  promised, 
then  is  it  set  aside,  which  is  most  unreasonable. 

Ver.  19.  "What  then  is  the  Law?  it  was 
added  because  of  transgressions." 

This   remark   again  is   not   superfluous;  ob- 


Chrisl  far  •ictHna,  and  10  all  those  and  only  those  who  at 
truly  member  of  His  body,  united  to  Hin.  by  »  ><'>»£  &><"■  I 
ill  the  single  descendants  of  Abraham  were  meant,  the  children  i 
H agar  and  Keturah  and  subsequently  of  Esau  and  his  descendant: 
would  have  to  be  Included ."— Schaff— G.  A.l 

•"[Not  ai  a  single  individual  bur  u  Held  of  Ihe  church  which  : 
Hlsbody,  Eph.  IS  si  Thekeyto  Ihe  passage  i«  in  ver.  ]S  and  at 
■  Ye  axe  all  in.  in  Christ  Jesus.1  •■-Schalt-G.  A.] 


serve  too  how  he  glances  round  at  every  thing, 
as  if  he  had  an  hundred  eyes.  Having  exalted 
Faith,  and  proved  iis  elder  claims,  that  the 
Law  may  not  be  considered  superfluous,  he  sets 
right  this  side  of  the  doctrine  also,  and  proves 
that  the  Law  was  not  given  without  a  view,  but 
altogether  profitably.  "Because  of  transgres- 
sions ; "  that  is  to  say,  that  the  Jews  might  not 
be  let  live  carelessly,  and  plunge  into  the  depth  of 
wickedness,*  but  that  the  Law  might  be  placed 
upon  them  as  a  bridle,  guiding,  regulating,  and 
checking  them  from  transgressing,  if  not  all,  at 
least  some  of  the  commandments.  Not  slight 
then  was  the  advantage  of  the  Law;  but  for 
how  long  ? 

Ver.  19.  "Till  the  seed  should  come  to 
whom  the  promise  hath  been  made." 

This  is  said  of  Christ ;  if  then  it  was  given 
until  His  advent,  why  do  you  protract  it  beyond 
its  natural  period  ? 

Ver.  19.  "  And  it  was  ordained  through 
Angels  by  the  hand  of  a  Mediator." 

He  either  calls  the  priests  Angels,  or  he  de- 
clares that  the  Angels  themselves  ministered  to 
the  delivery  of  the  Law.  By  Mediator  here  he 
means  Christ,*  and  shows  that  He  was  before 
it,  and  Himself  the  Giver  of  it. 

Ver.  ao.  "  Now  a  mediator  is  not  a  medi- 
ator of  one,  but  God  is  one."  * 

What  can  the  heretics*  say  to  this?  for  as, 
according  to  them,  the  expression  "the  Only 
True  God"  excludes  the  Son  from  being  true 
God,  so  here  the  phrase  "God  is  One,"  ex- 
cludes Him  from  being  God  in  any  sense.  But 
if,  although  the  Father  is  called  "One  God," 
the  Son  is  nevertheless  God,  it  is  very  plain 
that  though  the  Father  is  called  "Very  God," 
the  Son  is  very  God  likewise.  Now  a  mediator, 
says  he,  is  between  two  parties;  of  whom  then 
is  Christ  the  Mediator  ?  plainly  of  God  and  of 
men.  Observe,  he  says,  that  Christ  also  gave 
the  Law  j  what  therefore  it  was  His  to  give,  it 
is  His  to  annul. 

■["  This  Interpretation  of  Chrysostom  must  be  rejected  on  lexical 
groundl.     The  [aw  was  In  order  Is  bring  sin  to _HghI  and  make  it 

untie  lit  col*."— ElHcmt  and  Schaff— G.  A.) 
•  f  "  We  may  reasonably  wonder,"  says  Ellicott,  "how  the  early 

„.:.„..  (M<><;1  ,t.,\  'n,™lm  »xccprcd)  could  hare  so  generally 

if  (Jrigen  thai  ihe  Mediator  hen 


•["'Thii  Yen*  1st 


nted  the  most  difficult 


tiify  .1 


wo  parties.    God  on  the  1 

nitnsct.    It  is  therefore  o 
nw  the  promise  is  absolute 


1  both  panics  folfilthe  terms  of 
It  and  not  absolute  Unlike  Die 
tcondttiunal.     It  depends  on  tbe 

laao^?n'The'giveM"  °* 


A] 


Chapter  III.] 


COMMENTARY  ON  GALATIANS. 


29 


Ver.  21.  "Is  the  Law  then  against  the 
promises  of  God?" 

For  if  the  blessing  is  given  in  the  seed  of 
Abraham,  but  the  Law  brings  in  the  curse, 
it  must  be  contrary  to  the  promises.  This  ob- 
jection he  meets,  first,  by  a  protest,  in  the 
words, 

Ver.  21.    "God  forbid:  " 

And  next  he  brings  his  proof; 

Ver.  21.  "  For  if  there  had  been  a  law  given 
which  could  make  alive  verily  righteousness 
would  have  been  of  the  Law." 

His  meaning  is  as  follows;  If  we  had  our 
hope  of  life  in  the  Law,  and  our  salvation  de- 
pended on  it,  the  objection  might  be  valid. 
But  if  it  save  you,  by  means  of  Faith,  though 
it  brings  you  under  the  curse,  you  suffer  nothing 
from  it,  gain  no  harm,  in  that  Faith  comes 
and  sets  all  right.  Had  the  promise  been 
by  the  Law,  you  had  reasonably  feared  lest, 
separating  from  the  Law,  you  should  separate 
from  righteousness,  but  if  it  was  given  in  order 
to  shut  up  all,  that  is,  to  convince  all  and 
expose  their  individual  sins,  far  from  excluding 
you  from  the  promises,  it  now  aids  you  in 
obtaining  them.     This  is  shown  by  the  words, 

Ver.  22.  "  Howbeit  the  scripture1  hath  shut 
up  all  things  under  sin,  that  the  promise  by 
faith  in  Jesus  Christ  might  be  given  to  them 
that  believe." 

As  the  Jews  were  not  even  conscious  of  their 
own  sins,  and  in  consequence  did  not  even 
desire  remission ;  the  Law  was  given  to 
probe  their  wounds,  that  they  might  long  for  a 
physician.  And  the  word  "shut  up"  means 
"convinced,"  and  conviction  held  them  in  fear. 
You  see  then  it  is  not  only  not  against,  but  was 
given  for  the  promises.  Had  it  arrogated  to 
itself  the  work  and  the  authority,  the  objection 
would  stand ;  but  if  its  drift  is  something  else, 
and  it  acted  for  that,  how  is  it  against  the  pro- 
mises of  God?  Had  the  Law  not  been  given, 
all.  would  have  been  wrecked  upon  wickedness, 
and  there  would  have  been  no  Jews  to  listen  to 
Christ;  but  now  being  given,  it  has  effected  two 
things  ;  it  has  schooled  its  followers  in  a  certain 
degree  of  virtue,  and  has  pressed  on  them  the 
knowledge  of  their  own  sins.  And  this  especially 
made  them  more  zealous  to  seek  the  Son,  for 
those  who  disbelieved,  disbelieved  from  having 
no  sense  of  their  own   sins,  as   Paul   shows ; 


'["The  Law  then  though  differing  widely  from  the  promise  is  not 
antagonistic  to  it,  does  not  interfere  with  it.  On  the  contrary,  we 
sight  imagine  such  a  law  as  would  justify  and  give  life.  This  wa* 
■ot  the  effect  of  the  law  of  Moses,  however;  on  the  contrary 
(•iU)  the  Scripture  (that,  namely,  about  the  curse,  v.  10:)  testi- 
fies that  the  Law  condemned  all  alike,  yet  not  finally  and  irrevo- 
cably but  only  as  leading  the  way  for  the  dispensation  of  faith." 
"-kghtfoot.  Meyer  takes  a  different  view  of  v.  21  :  "For  if  it  had 
bwo  opposed  to  the  promise*.,  the  I«iw  must  have  been  in  a  position 
Jo  procure  lifeand  if  this  were  so,  then  would  righteousness  actually 
be  from  the  Law,  which  according  to  the  Scripture  cannot  be  so 
(vtr.  22)."-G.  A.J 


"For  being  ignorant  of  God's  righteousness, 
and  seeking  to  establish  their  own  righteousness, 
they  did  not  subject  themselves  to  the  rightous- 
ness  of  God."  (Rom.  x:  3.) 

Ver.  23.  "  But  before  faith  came,  we  were 
kept  inward  under  the  Law,  shut  up  unto  the 
faith  which  should  afterwards  be  revealed." 

Here  he  clearly  puts  forward  what  I  have 
stated :  for  the  expressions  "  we  were  kept "  and 
"shut  up,"  signify  nothing  else  than  the 
security  given  by  the  commandments  of  the 
Law  ;  which  like  a  fortress  fenced  them  round 
with  fear  and  a  life  conformable  to  itself,  and  so 
preserved  them  unto  Faith. 

Ver.  24.  "  So  that  the  Law  hath  been  our 
tutor  to  bring  us  unto  Christ,  that  we  might  be 
justified  by  faith." 

Now  the  Tutor  is  not  opposed  to  the  Precep- 
tor, but  cooperates  with  him,  ridding  the  youth 
from  all  vice,  and  having  all  leisure  to  fit  him 
for  receiving  instructions  from  his  Preceptor. 
But  when  the  youth's  habits  are  formed,  then 
the  Tutor  leaves  him,  as  Paul  says. 

Ver.  25,  26.  "But  now  that  faith  is  come 
which  leads  to  perfect  manhood  we  are  no  longer 
under  a  tutor*.  For  ye  are  all  sons  of  God 
through  faith  in  Christ  Jesus." 

The  Law  then,  as  it  was  our  tutor,  and  we 
were  kept  shut  up  under  it,  is  not  the  adversary 
but  the  fellow- worker  of  grace ,  but  if  when 
grace  is  come,  it  continues  to  hold  us  down,  it 
becomes  an  adversary ;  for  if  it  confines  those 
who  ought  to  go  forward  to  grace,  then  it  is  the 
destruction  of  our  salvation.  If  a  candle  which 
gave  light  by  night,  kept  us,  when  it  became 
day,  from  the  sun,  it  would  not  only  not  benefit, 
it  would  injure  us ;  and  so  doth  the  Law,  if  it 
stands  between  us  and  greater  benefits.  Those 
then  are  the  greatest  traducers  of  the  Law, 
who  still  keep  it,  just  as  the  tutor  makes  a 
youth  ridiculous,  by  retaining  him  with  himself, 
when  time  calls  for  his  departure.  Hence  Paul 
says,  "  But  after  faith  is  come,  we  are  no  longer 
under  a  tutor."  We  are  then  no  longer  under  a 
tutor,  "  for  ye  are  all  sons  of  God."  Wonder- 
ful !  see  how  mighty  is  the  power  of  Faith,  and 
how  he  unfolds  as  he  proceeds !  Before,  he 
showed  that  it  made  them  sons  of  the  Patriarch, 
"  Know  therefore,"  says  he,  "  that  they  which 
be  of  faith,  the  same  are  sons  of  Abraham;  " 
now  he  proves  that  they  are  sons  of  God  also, 
"  For  ye  are  all,"  says  he,  "  sons  of  God  through 
faith,  which  is  in  Christ  Jesus ;  "  by  Faith,  not 
by  the  Law.     Then,   when   he   has   said   this 

*  ["  The  pa:dagugus  or  tutor,  frequently  a  superior  slave,  was 
entrusted  with  the  moral  supervision  of  the  child.  Thus  his  office 
was  quite  distinct  from  that  of  the  6«.oao-«aAo? ;  so  the  word 
"Schoolmaster"  conveys  a  wrong  idea.  As  well  in  his  inferior 
rank  as  in  his  recognized  duty  of  enforcing  discipline,  this  person 
was  a  fit  emblem  of  the  Mosaic  law.  There  is  a  very  complete 
illustration  of  the  use  which  Paul  makes  of  the  metaphor  in  Plato 
(Lysis,  p.  ao8  C)."— Lightfoot  —  U.  A.J 


30 


WORKS  OF  ST.  CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Chapter  IV. 


great  and  wonderful  thing,  he  names  also  the 
mode  of  their  adoption, 

Ver.  27.  "  For  as  many  of  you  as  were  bap- 
tized into  Christ,  did  put  on  Christ." 

Why  does  he  not  say,  "  For  as  many  of  you 
as  have  been  baptized  into  Christ,  have  been 
born  of  God  ?  "  for  this  was  what  directly  went 
to  prove  that  they  were  sons  ; — because  he  states 
it  in  a  much  more  awful  point  of  view ;  If 
Christ  be  the  Son  of  God,  and  thou  hast  put  on 
Him,  thou  who  hast  the  Son  within  thee,  and 
art  fashioned  after  His  pattern,  hast  been 
brought  into  one  kindred  and  nature  with 
Him. 

Ver.  28.  "There  can  be  neither  Jew  nor 
Greek,  there  can  be  neither  bond  nor  free, 
there  can  be  no  male  and  female :  for  ye  all  are 
one  in  Christ  Jesus." 

See  what  an  insatiable  soul !  for  having 
said,    "We    are    all    made  children  of   God 


through  Faith,"  he  does  not  stop  there, 
but  tries  to  find  something  more  exact,  which 
may  serve  to  convey  a  still  closer  oneness  with 
Christ.  Having  said,  "  ye  have  put  on  Christ," 
even  this  does  not  suffice  Him,  but  by  way  of 
penetrating  more  deeply  into  this  union,  he 
comments  on  it  thus:  "Ye  are  all  One  in 
Christ  Jesus,"  that  is,  ye  have  all  one  form  and 
one  mould,  even  Christ's.  What  can  be  more 
awful  than  these  words  !  He  that  was  a  Greek, 
or  Jew,  or  bond-man  yesterday,  carries  about 
with  him  the  form,  not  of  an  Angel  or  Archan- 
gel, but  of  the  Lord  of  all,  yea  displays  in  his 
own  person  the  Christ. 

Ver.  29.  "  And  if  ye  are  Christ's,  then  are 
ye  Abraham's  seed,  heirs  according  to  promise." 

Here,  you  observe,  he  proves  what  he  had 
before  stated  concerning  the  seed  of  Abraham, — 
that  to  him  and  to  his  seed  the  promises  were 
given.8 


CHAPTER  IV. 


VERSE  1-3. 


44  But  I  say,  that  so  long  as  the  heir  is  a  child,  he  differ- 
ent nothing  from  a  bond-servant,  though  he  is 
lord  of  all ;  but  is  under  guardians  and  stewards, 
until  the  term  appointed  of  the  father.  So  we  also 
when  we  were  children,  were  held  in  bondage  under 
the  rudiments  of  the  world." 

The  word  "child  "  in  this  place  denotes  not 
age  but  understanding;1  meaning  that  God  had 
from  the  beginning  designed  for  us  these  gifts, 
but,  as  we  yet  continued  childish,  He  let  us  be 
under  the  elements  of  the  world,  that  is, 
new  moons  and  sabbaths,  for  these  days  are 
regulated  by  the  course  of  sun  and  moon.2  If 
then  also  now  they  bring  you  under  law  they 
do  nothing  else  but  lead  you  backward  now  in 
the  time  of  your  perfect  age  and  maturity.  And 
see  what  is  the  consequence  of  observing  days ; 
the  Lord,  the  Master  of  the  house,  the  Sover- 
eign Ruler,  is  thereby  reduced  to  the  rank  of  a 
servant. 

Ver.  4,  5.  "  But  when  the  fulness  of  the  time 
came  God  sent  forth  His  Son,  born  of  a  woman, 
under  the  Law  that  he  might  redeem  them  which 

1  ["This  reference  of  min-toc  to  mental  immaturity  is  quite  in 
opposition  to  the  context. — Meyer.  "  The  heir  in  his  nonage  rep- 
resents the  Jewish  people  and  the  state  of  the  world  before 
Christ." — Schaff  So  Meyer:  "The  xAijoofO/iof  *opno*  represents 
the  Christians  as  a  body  regarded  in  their  earlier  pre-Christian 
condition." — G.  A.] 

9[  This  interpretation  is  rejected  by  Schaff,  Meyer,  Ellicott.Light- 
foot  et  al.  Schaff  says  :  "'Elements'  here  represents  the  religion 
before  Christ  as  an  elementary  religion  full  of  external  rites  and 
ceremonies.     *    *    Comp.  v:  10,  for  a  specimen." — G.  A.] 


were  under  the  Law,  that  we  might  receive  the 
adoption  of  sons." 

Here  he  states  two  objects  and  effects  of  the 
Incarnation,  deliverance  from  evil  and  supply  of 
good,  things  which  none  could  -compass 
but  Christ.  They  are  these;  deliverance  from 
the  curse  of  the  Law,  and  promotion  to  son- 
ship.  Fitly  does  he  say,  that  we  might ' '  receive," 
"[be  paid,]"  implying  that  it  was  due;  4  for 
the  promise  was  of  old  time  made  for  these 
objects  to  Abraham,  as  the  Apostle  has  himself 
shown  at  great  length.  And  how  does  it  appear 
that  we  have  become  sons  ?  he  has  told  us  one 
mode,  in  that  we  have  put  on  Christ  who  is  the 
Son ;  and  now  he  mentions  another,  in  that  we 
have  received  the  Spirit  of  adoption. 

Ver.  6,  7.  "And  because  ye  are  sons,  God 
sent  forth  the  Spirit  of  His  Son  into  your  hearts, 
crying,  Abba,  Father.  So  that  thou  art  no 
longer  a  bond -servant,  but  a  son ;  and  if  a  son, 
then  an  heir  through  God." 

Had  not  we  been  first  made  sons,  we  could 
not  have  called  Him  Father.  If  then  grace 
hath  made  us  freemen  instead  of  slaves,  men 

*  [So  Schaff:  "  Verse  16  must  here  be  kept  in  view  where  Christ 
is  declared  to  be  the  seed  of  Abraham.  Union  with  Christ  consti- 
tutes the  true  spiritual  descent  from  Abraham  and  secures  the  inher- 
itance of  all  the  Messianic  blessings  by  promise  as  against  inheri- 
tance by  law."     Pop.  Com.  in  loc. — O.  A.] 

4  f  "  The  proposition  here  (aw6)  simply  means  to  receive  from  or 
at  the  hands  of  anyone." — Meyer. — But  Light  foot  holds  that  avo 
KdfZotfxty  cannot  be  the  same  as  Xdfiotfjuv,  the  simple  verb.— G.  A. J 


X  •  fV 


'vr.KSJTY     J) 


Chapter  IV.] 


X^UFORN]^^ 


COMMENTARY  ON  GALATIANS. 


31 


instead  of  children,  heirs  and  sons  instead  of 
aliens,  is  it  not  utter  absurdity  and  stupidity  to 
desert  this  grace,  and  to  turn  away  backwards? 

Ver.  8,  9.  "  Howbeit  at  that  time  not  know- 
ing God,  ye  were  in  bondage  to  them  which  by 
nature  are  no  gods.1  But  now,  that  ye  have 
come  to  know  God,  or  rather  to  be  known  of 
God,  how  turn  ye  back  again  to  the  weak  and 
beggarly  rudiments  whereunto  ye  desire  to  be  in 
bondage  over  again.' ' 

Here  turning  to  the  Gentile  believers  he  says 
that  it  is  an  idolatry,  this  rigid  observance  of 
days,  and  now  incurs  a  severe  punishment.  To 
enforce  this,  and  inspire  them  with  a  deeper 
anxiety,  he  calls  the  elements  "not  by  nature 
Gods."  And  his  meaning  is, — Then  indeed, 
as  being  benighted  and  bewildered,  ye  lay  grov- 
elling upon  the  earth,  but  now  that  ye  have 
known  God  or  rather  are  known  of  Him,  how 
great  and  bitter  will  be  the  chastisement  ye  draw 
upon  you,  if,  after  such  a  treatment,  ye  relapse 
into  the  same  disease.  It  was  not  by  your  own 
pains  that  ye  found  out  God,  but  while  ye  con- 
tinued in  error,  He  drew  you  to  Himself.  He 
says  "weak  and  beggarly  rudiments,"  in  that 
they  avail  nothing  towards  the  good  things  held 
out  to  us. 

Ver.  10.  "  Ye  observe  days,  and  months,  and 
seasons,  and  years." 

Hence  is  plain  that  their  teachers  were 
preaching  to  them  not  only  circumscision,  but 
also  the  feast-days  and  new-moons. 

Ver.  11.  "I  am  afraid  of  you,  lest  by  any 
means  I  have  bestowed  labor  upon  you  in  vain." 

Observe  the  tender  compassion  of  the  Apostle ; 
they  were  shaken  and  he  trembles  and  fears. 
And  hence  he  has  put  it  so  as  thoroughly  to 
shame  them,  "I  have  bestowed  labor  upon 
you,"  saying,  as  it  were,  make  not  vain  the 
labors  which  have  cost  me  sweat  and  pain. 
By  saying  "I  fear,"  and  subjoining  the  word 
"lest,"  he  both  inspires  alarm,  and  encourages 
good  hope.  He  says  not  "  I  have  labored  in 
vain,"  but  "  lest,"  which  is  as  much  as  to  say, 
the  wreck  has  not  happened,  but  I  see  the  storm 
big  with  it ;  so  I  am  in  fear,  yet  not  in  despair ; 
ye  have  the  power  to  set  all  right,  and  to  return 
into  your  former  calm.  Then,  as  it  were  stretch- 
ing out  a  hand  to  them  thus  tempest-tost,2  he 
brings  himself  into  the  midst,  saying, 

'  ["  It  is  clear  from  the  context  that  here  the  apostle  is  not  speak- 
i»8  of  the  Jewish  race  alone  but  of  the  heathen  world  also  before 
Uirist.  He  distinctly  refers  to  their  previous  idolatrous  worship 
(*.  8)  and  describes  their  adoption  of  Jewish  ritualism  as  a  '  re- 
turn'to  the  weak  and  beggarly  discipline  of  childhood.  *  *  * 
Heathenism  had  been  in  respect  to  the  '  ritualistic'  element,  which 
i*  the  meeting-point  of  Judaism  and  heathenism,  a  disciplinary 
training  like  Judaism.  They  were  made  up  of  precepts  and  ordi- 
nances, as  opposed  to  'grace  '  and  '  promise,'  and  in  an  imperfect 
**y  they  might  do  the  same  work.  They  might  by  multiplying 
transgression  and  begetting  a  conviction  of  it  prepare  the  way  for 
liberty  in  Christ."— Lightfoot.—G.  A.l 

'["Paul  in  the  following  paragraph  (ver.  12-20)  interrupts  his 
argument  for  a  moment  by  an  affectionate  appeal  to  the  feelings 
oftheGalatians."— Schaff.— G.  A.J 


Ver.  12.  "I  beseech  you,  brethren,  be  as  I  am  ; 
for  I  am  as  you  are." 

This  is  addressed  to  his  Jewish  disciples,  and 
he  brings  his  own  example  forward,  to  induce 
them  thereby  to  abandon  their  old  customs. 
Though  you  had  none  other  for  a  pattern,  he 
says,  to  look  at  me  only  would  have  sufficed  for 
such  a  change,  and  for  your  taking  courage. 
Therefore  gaze  on  me ;  I  too  was  3  once  in  your 
state  of  mind,  especially  so ;  I  had  a  burning 
zeal  for  the  Law  ;  yet  afterwards  I  feared  not  to 
abandon  the  Law,  to  withdraw  from  that  rule 
of  life.  And  this  ye  know  full  well  how  obsti- 
nately I  clung  hold  of  Judiaism,  and  how  with 
yet  greater  force  I  let  it  go.  He  does  well  to 
place  this  last  in  order  :  for  most  men,  though 
they  are  given  a  thousand  reasons,  and  those 
just  ones,  are  more  readily  influenced  by  that 
which  is  like  their  own  case,  and  more  firmly 
hold  to  that  which  they  see  done  by  others. 

Ver.  12.  "Ye  did  me  no  wrong." 

Observe  how  he  again  addresses  them  by  a 
title  of  honor,  which  was  a  reminder  moreover 
of  the  doctrine  of  grace.  Having  chid  them 
seriously,  and  brought  things  together  from  all 
quarters,  and  shown  their  violations  of  the  Law, 
and  hit  them  on  many  sides,  he  gives  in  and 
conciliates  them  speaking  more  tenderly.  For 
as  to  do  nothing  but  conciliate  causes  negligence, 
so  to  be  constantly  talked  at  with  sharpness  sours 
a  man ;  so  that  it  is  proper  to  observe  due  propor- 
tion everywhere.  See  then  how  he  excuses  to 
them  what  he  has  said,  and  shows  that  it  pro- 
ceeded not  simply  because  he  did  not  like  them, 
but  from  anxiety.  After  giving  them  a  deep 
cut,  he  pours  in  this  encouragement  like  oil; 
and,  showing  that  his  words  were  not  words  of 
hate  or  enmity,  he  reminds  them  of  the  love 
which  they  had  evinced  toward  him,  mixing  his 
self-vindication  with  praises.  Therefore  he 
says,  "ye  did  me  no  wrong." 

Ver.  13,  14.  "  But  ye  know  that  because  of 
an  infirmity  of  the  flesh  I  preached  the  Gospel 
unto  you  the  first  time.  And  that  which  was  a 
temptation  in  my  flesh  ye  despised  not,  nor  re- 
jected." 

Not  to  have  injured  one  is  indeed  no  great 
thing,  for  no  man  whatever  would  choose  to 
hurt  wantonly  and  without  object  to  annoy  an- 
other who  had  never  injured  him.  But  for  you, 
not  only  have  ye  not  injured  me,  but  ye  have 
shown  me  great  and  inexpressible  kindness,  and 
it  is  impossible  that  one  who  has  been  treated 
with  such  attention  should  speak  thus  from  any 
malevolent  motive.  My  language  then  cannot 
be  caused  by  ill-will ;  it  follows,  that  it  proceeds 

'  ["  'Eytvonrfv  must  be  supplied  in  the  second  clause  and  not 
hfjivv  as  Chrysostom  would  understand:  Become  as  I,  free  from 
luaaism,  for  I  also  have  become  as  you.  For  when  I  abandoned 
Judaism  I  became  as  a  Gentile  and  put  myself  on  the  same  footing 
with  you." — Meyer. — G.  A.J 


32 


WORKS  OF  ST.  CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Chapter  IV. 


from  affection  and  solicitude.1  "  Ye  did  me  no 
wrong ;  ye  know  that  because  of  an  infirmity 
of  the  flesh  I  preached  the  Gospel  unto  you." 
What  can  be  gentler  than  this  holy  soul,  what 
sweeter,  or  more  affectionate  !  And  the  words 
he  had  already  used,  arose  not  from  an  unrea- 
soning anger,  nor  from  a  passionate  emotion, 
but  from  much  solicitude.  And  why  do  I  say, 
ye  have  not  injured  me?  Rather  have  ye 
evinced  a  great  and  sincere  regard  for  me.  For 
"  ye  know/'  he  says,  "  that  because  of  an  in- 
firmity of  the  flesh  I  preached  the  Gospel  unto 
you ;  and  that  which  was  a  temptation  to  you 
in  my  flesh  ye  despised  not,  nor  rejected." 
What  does  he  mean  ?  While  I  preached  to  you, 
I  was  driven  about,  I  was  scourged,  I  suffered  a 
thousand  deaths,  yet  ye  thought  no  scorn  of 
me;  for  this  is  meant  by  that  which  was  a 
temptation  to  you  in  my  flesh  ye  despised  not, 
nor  rejected."2  Observe  his  spiritual  skill ;  in 
the  midst  of  his  self- vindication,  he  again  ap- 
peals to  their  feelings  by  showing  what  he  had 
suffered  for  their  sakes.  This  however,  says  he, 
did  not  at  all  offend  you,  nor  did  ye  reject  me 
on  account  of  my  sufferings  and  persecutions; 
or,  as  he  now  calls  them,  his  infirmity  and 
temptation. 

Ver.  14.  "  But  ye  received  me  as  an  Angel 
of  God." 

Was  it  not  then  absurd  in  them  to  receive 
him  as  an  Angel  of  God,  when  he  was  perse- 
cuted and  driven  about,  and  then  not  to  receive 
him  when  pressing  on  them  what  was  fitting  ? 

Ver.  15,  16.  "  Where  then  is  that  gratulation 
of  yourselves?  for  I  bear  you  witness,  that,  if 
possible,  ye  would  have  plucked  out  your  eyes, 
and  given  them  to  me.  So  then  am  I  become 
your  enemy,  because  I  tell  you  the  truth  ?  " 

Here  he  shows  perplexity  and  amazement, 
and  desires  to  learn  of  themselves  the  reason  of 
their  change.  Who,  says  he,  hath  deceived  you, 
and  caused  a  difference  in  your  disposition 
towards  me  ?  Are  ye  not  the  same  who  attended 
and  ministered  to  me,  counting  me  more  pre- 
cious than  your  own  eyes  ?  what  then  has  hap- 
pened ?  whence  this  dislike  ?  whence  this  sus- 
picion ?  Is  it  because  I  have  told  you  the  truth  ? 
You  ought  on  this  very  account  to  pay  me  in- 
creased honor  and  attention ;  instead  of  which 
"  I  am  become  your  enemy,  because  I  tell  you 
the  truth," — for  I  can  find  no  other  reason  but 
this.  Observe  too  what  humbleness  of  mind 
appears  in  his  defence  of  himself ;  he  proves  not 
by  his  conduct  to  them,   but  by  theirs  to  him 


1  [" '  Yc  did  me  no  wrong  '  probably  means  :  I  have  no  personal 
ground  of  complaint." — Schaff  and  Lightfoot. — G.  A.] 

*  ["  '  On  .account  of  some  weakness  of  the  flesh,'  means  he  was 
compelled  by  reason  of  bodily  weakness  to  make  a  stay  there 
which  did  not  form  part  of  his  plan,  and  during  that  forced  so- 
journ he  preached  there." — Meyer. — G.  A.l 

"  He  was  detained  there  by  some  bodily  infirmitiy  or  sickness 
and  was  thus  induced  to  preach  the  Gospel." — Schaff. — G.  A.] 


that  his  language  could  not  possibly  have  pro- 
ceeded from  unkind  feeling.  For  he  says 
not ;  How  is  it  supposable  that  one,  who  has 
been  scourged  and  driven  about,  and  ill-treated 
a  thousand  things  for  your  sakes,  should  now 
have  schemes  against  you  ?  But  he  argues  from 
what  they  had  reason  to  boast  of,  saying,  How 
can  one  who  has  been  honored  by  you,  and  re- 
ceived as  an  Angel,  repay  you  by  conduct  the 
very  opposite  ? 

Ver.  17.  "They  zealously  seek  you  in  no 
good  way ;  nay,  they  desire  to  shut  you  out 
that  ye  may  seek  them." 

It  is  a  wholesome  emulation8  which  leads  to  an 
imitation  of  virtue,  but  an  evil  one,  which  se- 
duces from  virtue  him  who  is  in  the  right  path. 
And  this  is  the  object  of  those  persons,  who 
would  deprive  you  of  perfect  knowledge,4  and 
impart  to  you  that  which  is  mutilated  and  spur- 
ious, and  this  for  no  other  purpose  than  that 
they  may  occupy  the  rank  of  teachers,  and  de- 
grade you,  who  now  stand  higher  than  them- 
selves, to  the  position  of  disciples.  For  this  is 
the  meaning  of  the  words  "  that  ye  may  seek 
them."  But  I,  says  he,  desire  the  reverse,  that 
ye  may  become  a  model  for  them,  and  a  pattern 
of  a  higher  perfection  :  a  thing  which  actually 
happened  when  I  was  present  with  you.  Where- 
fore he  adds, 

Ver.  18.  "  But  it  is  good  to  be  zealously 
sought  in  a  good  matter  at  all  times,  and  not 
only  when  I  am  present  with  you." 

Here  he  hints  tjiat  his  absence  had  been  the 
cause  of  this,  and  that  the  true  blessing  was  for 
disciples  to  hold  right  opinions  not  only  in  the 
presence  but  also  in  the  absence  of  their  master. 
But  as  they  had  not  arrived  at  this  point  of  per- 
fection, he  makes  every  effort  to  place  them 
there. 

Ver.  19.  "My  little  children,6  of  whom  I 
am  again  in  travail  until  Christ  be  formed  in 
you." 

Observe  his  perplexity  and  perturbation, 
"  Brethren,  I  beseech  you  :  "  "  My  little  child- 
ren, of  whom  I  am  again  in  travail :  "  He  resem- 
bles a  mother  trembling  for  her  children. 
"Until  Christ  be  formed  in  you."  Behold  his 
paternal  tenderness,  behold  this  despondency 
worthy  of  an  Apostle.  Observe  what  a  wail  he 
utters,  far  more  piercing  than  of  a  woman  in  travail; 
— Ye  have  defaced  the  likeness,  ye  have  destroyed 
the  kinship,  ye  have  changed  the  form,  ye  need 

•  [This  word  does  not  here  mean  "they  vie  with  you,"  as  Chry- 
sostom  interprets  it,  but  "  they  zealously  seek  you  or  pay  court  to 
you."  (1  Cor.  xii :  31). — G.  A.J 

4  ["  They  desire  to  shut  you  out "  (not  from  a  state  of  true 
knowledge,  as  Chrysostom  interprets)  but  "from  other  teachers," 
anti-judaizing'teachers,  (according  to  Meyer)  or  from  me  (Paul)  and 
so  virtually  from  Christ  Himself  (according  to  Schaff)  or  from 
Christ  (Lightfoot).— G.  A.) 

*  ["  A  mode  of  address  common  in  St.  John  but  nowhere  else 
found  in  St.  Paul."— Lightfoot.  "  It  expresses  Paul's  tenderness 
and  their  feebleness." — Schaff.— G.  A.] 


Chapter  IV.] 


COMMENTARY  ON  GALATIANS. 


33 


another  regeneration  and  refashioning ; l  never- 
theless I  call  you  children,  abortions  and 
monsters  though  ye  be.  However,  he  does  not 
express  himself  in  this  way,  but  spares  them, 
unwilling  to  strike,  and  to  inflict  wound  upon 
wound.  Wise  physicians  do  not  cure  those  who 
have  fallen  into  a  long  sickness  all  at  once,  but 
little  by  little,  lest  they  should  faint  and  die. 
And  so  is  it  with  this  blessed  man ;  for  these 
pangs  were  more  severe  in  proportion  as  the 
force  of  his  affection  was  stronger.  And  the 
offense  was  of  no  trivial  kind.  And  as  I  have 
ever  said  and  ever  will  say,  even  a  slight  fault 
mars  the  appearance  and  distorts  the  figure  of 
the  whole. 

Ver.  20.  "Yea,  I  could  wish  to  be  present 
with  you  now,  and  to  change  my  voice/' 

Observe  his  warmth,  his  inability  to  refrain 
himself,  and  to  conceal  these  his  feelings ;  such 
is  the  nature  of  love ;  nor  is  he  satisfied  with 
words,  but  desires  to  be  present  with  them,  and 
so,  as  he  says,  to  change  his  voice,  that  is,  to 
change  to  lamentation,  to  shed  tears,  to  turn 
every  thing  into  mourning.  For  he  could  not 
by  letter  show  his  tears  or  cries  of  grief,  and 
therefore  he  ardently  desires  to  be  present  with 
them. 

Ver.  20.  "Fori  am  perplexed  about  you." 

I  know  not,  says  he,  what  to  say,  or  what  to 
think.  How  is  it,  that  ye  who  by  dangers, 
Vhich  ye  endured  for  the  faith's  sake,  and  by 
miracles,  which  ye  performed  through  faith,  had 
ascended  to  the  highest  heaven,  should  suddenly 
be  brought  to  such  a  depth  of  degradation  as  to 
be  drawn  aside  to  circumcision  or  sabbaths,  and 
should  rely  wholly  upon  Judaizers?  Hence  in 
the  beginning  he  says,  "I  marvel  that  ye  are 
so  quickly  removing,"  and  here,  "I  am  per- 
plexed about  you/'  as  if  he  said,  What  am  I  to 
speak?  What  am  I  to  utter?  What  am  I  to 
think?  I  am  bitterly  perplexed.  And  so  he 
must  needs  weep,  as  the  prophets  do  when  in 
perplexity ;  for  not  only  admonition  but  mourn- 
ing also  is  a  form  in  which  solicitous  attention 
is  often  manifested.  And  what  he  said  in  his 
speech  to  those  at  Miletus,  "  By  the  space  of 
three  years  I  ceased  not  to  warn  every  one... 
with  tears,"  he  says  here  also,  "  and  to  change 
my  voice. ' '  (Acts  xx :  3 1 . )  When  we  find  ourselves 
overcome  by  perplexity  and  helplessness  which 
come  contrary  to  expectation,  we  are  driven  to 
tears;  and  so  Paul  admonished  them  sharply,  and 
endeavored  to  shame  them,  then  in  turn 
soothed  them,  and  lastly  he  wept.  And  this 
weeping  is  not  only  a  reproof  but  a  blandish- 
ment; it  does  not  exasperate  like  reproof,  nor 

M"  I  travailed  with  you  once  in  bringing  you  to  Christ.  By  your 
^opseyou  have  renewed  a  mother's  pangs  in  me." — Lightfoot. 

"'Until  Christ  be  formed  in  you,' is  not  an  inversion  of  the 
BCapbor  he  has  begun  with,  but  means,  '  till  you  have  taken  the 
form  of  Christ  as  the  embryo  develops  into  the  child.' " — Light- 


relax  like  indulgent  treatment,  but  is  a  mixed 
remedy,  and  of  great  efficacy  in  the  way  of 
exhortation.  Having  thus  softened  and  power- 
fully engaged  their  hearts  by  his  tears,  he  again 
advances  to  the  contest,1  and  lays  down  a  larger 
propostion,  proving  that  the  Law  itself  was 
opposed  to  its  being  kept.  Before,  he  produced 
the  example  of  Abraham,  but  now  (what  is  more 
cogent)  he  brings  forward  the  Law  itself  enjoin- 
ing them  not  to  keep  itself,  but  to  leave  off.  So 
that,  says  he,  you  must  abandon  the  Law,  if  you 
would  obey  it,  for  this  is  its  own  wish :  this 
however  he  does  not  say  expressly,  but  enforces  it 
in  another  mode,  mixing  up  with  it  an  account 
of  facts. 

Ver.  21.  "Tell  me,"  he  says,  "ye  that 
desire  to  be  under  the  Law,  do  ye  not  hear  the 
Law?"3 

He  says  rightly,  "ye  that  desire,"  for  the 
matter  was  not  one  of  a  proper  and  orderly 
succession  of  things  but  of  their  own  unseason- 
able contentiousness.  It  is  the  Book  of  Creation 
which  he  here  calls  the .  Law,  which  name  he 
often  gives  to  the  whole  Old  Testament. 

Ver.  22.  "  For  it  is  written,  (Gen.  xv:  16.) 
that  Abraham  had  two  sons,  one  by  the  hand- 
maid and  the  other  by  the  freewoman." 

He  returns  again  to  Abraham,  not  in  the  way 
of  repetition,  but,  inasmuch  as  the  Patriarch's 
fame  was  great  among  the  Jews,  to  show  that 
the  types  had  their  origin  from  thence,  and  that 
present  events  were  pictured  aforetime  in  him. 
Having  previously  shown  that  the  Galatians 
were  sons  of  Abraham,  now,  in  that  the 
Patriarch's  sons  were  not  of  equal  dignity,  one 
being  by  a  bondwoman,  the  other  by  a  free- 
woman,  he  shows  that  they  were  not  only  his 
sons,  but  sons  in  the  same  sense  as  he  that  was 
freeborn  and  noble.  Such  is  the  power  of 
Faith. 

Ver.  23.  "  Howbeit  the  son  by  the  handmaid 
is  born  after  the  flesh ;  but  the  son  by  the 
freewoman  is  born  through  promise." 

What  is  the  meaning  of  "after  the  flesh?" 
Having  said  that  Faith  united  us  to  Abraham, 
and  it  having  seemed  incredible  to  his  hearers, 
that  those  who  were  not  begotten  by  Abraham 
should  be  called  his  sons,  he  proves  that  this 
paradox  had  actually  happened  long  ago;  for 
that  Isaac,  born  not  according  to  the  order  of 
nature,  nor  the  law  of  marriage,  nor  the  power 
of  the  flesh,  was  yet  truly  his  own  son.  He 
was  the  issue  of  bodies  that  were  dead,  and  of 
a  womb  that  was  dead  ;  his  conception  was  not 
by  the  flesh,  nor  his  birth  by  the  seed,  for  the 
womb  was  dead  both  through  age  and  barren- 

■■  ■»■■■■!■  ■■■  -      I  ■  ..  +     ,.  -     ■■  ■  ^ 

9  [The  digression  which  contains  his  "  affectionate  appeal  "  (see 
note  above)  ends  with  verse  20,  after  which  he  resumes. — G.  A.l 

'  ["  The  Apostle  resumes  his  argument  for  the  superiority  of  tne 
Gospel  over  the  I  .aw  and  illustrates  the  difference  of  the  two  by  an 
allegorical  interpretation  of  the  history  of  Hagar  and  Sarah."— 
Schaff.— G.  A] 


34 


WORKS  OF  ST.  CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Chapter  IV. 


ness,  but  the  Word  of  God  fashioned  Him.  Not 
so  in  the  case  of  the  bondman ;  He  came  by 
virtue  of  the  laws  of  nature,  and  after  the  man- 
ner of  marriage.  Nevertheless,  he  that  was  not 
according  to  the  flesh  was  more  honorable  than 
he  that  was  born  after  the  flesh.  Therefore  let 
it  not  disturb  you  that  ye  are  not  born  after 
the  flesh  ;  for  from  the  very  reason  that  ye  are 
not  so  born,  are  ye  most  of  all  Abraham's  kin- 
dred. The  being  born  after  the  flesh  renders 
one  not  more  honorable,  but  less  so,  for  a  birth 
not  after  the  flesh  is  more  marvellous  and  more 
spiritual.  And  this  is  plain  from  the  case  of 
those  who  were  born  of  old  time ;  Ishmael,  for 
instance,  who  was  born  according  to  the  flesh, 
was  "not  only  a  bondman,  but  was  cast  out  of 
his  father's  house;  but  Isaac,  who  was  born 
according  to  the  promise,  being  a  true  son  and 
free,  was  lord  of  all. 

Ver.    24.  "  Which  things  contain  an   alle 
gory, 


»»i 


Ver.  25.  "And  answereth  to  Jerusalem  that 
now  is." 

That  is,  it  borders  on,  and  is  contiguous  to  it.3 

Ver.  25.  "For  she  is  in  bondage  with  her 
children." 

What  follows  from  hence?  Not  only  that 
she  was  in  bondage  and  brought  forth  bondmen, 
but  that  this  Covenant  is  so  too,  where6f  the 
bondwoman  was  a  type.  For  Jerusalem  is  adja- 
cent to  the  mountain  of  the  same  name  with  the 
bondwoman,  and  in  this  mountain  the  Coven- 
ant was  delivered.  Now  where  is  the  type  of 
Sarah  ? 

Ver.  26.  "  But  Jerusalem  that  is  above  is 
free." 

Those  therefore,  who  are  born  of  her  are  not 
bondmen.  Thus  the  type  of  the  Jerusalem 
below  was  Hagar,  as  is  plain  from  the  mountain 
being  so  called;  but  of  that  which  is  above 
is  the  Church.  Nevertheless  he  is  not  content 
with  these  types,  but  adds  the  testimony  of 
Isaiah  to  what  he  has  spoken.  Having  said  that 
Jerusalem  which  is  above  "  is  our  Mother,"  and 
having  given  that  name  to  the  Church,  he  cites 
the  suffrage  of  the  Prophet  in  his  favor, 

Ver.  27.  "  Rejoice,  thou  barren  that  bearest 
not,  break  forth  and  cry,  thou  that  travailest 
not,  for  more  are  the  children  of  the  desolate 
than  of  her  which  hath  the  husband."  (Isa. 
liv :  1.) 

Who  is  this  who  before  was  "  barren/ '  and 
"  desolate?"  Clearly  it  is  the  Church  of  the 
Gentiles,4  that  was  before  deprived  of  the 
knowledge  of  God?  Who,  "she  which  hath 
the  husband?"  plainly  the  Synagogue.  Yet 
the  barren  woman  surpassed  her  in  the  number 
of  her  children,  for  the  other  embraces  one 
nation,  but  the  children  of  the  Church  have 
filled  the  country  of  the  Greeks  and  of  the  Bar- 
barians, the  earth  and  sea,  the  whole  habitable 
world.  Observe  how  Sarah  by  acts,  and  the 
Prophet  by  words,  have  described  the  events 
about  to  befal  us.  Observe  too,  that  he  whom 
Isaiah  called  barren,  Paul  hath  proved  to  have 
many  children,  which  also  happened  typically 
in  the  case  of  Sarah.  For  she  too,  although  bar- 
ren, became  the  mother  of  a  numerous  progeny. 
This  however  does  not  suffice  Paul,  but  he  care- 
fully follows  out  the  mode  whereby  the  barren 
woman  became  a  mother,  that  in  this  particular 
likewise  the  type  might  harmonize  with  the 
truth.     Wherefore  he  adds 


Contrary  to  usage,  he  calls  a  type  an  allegory ; 
his  meaning  is  as  follows  ;  this  history  not  only 
declares  that  which  appears  on  the  face  of 
it,  but  announces  somewhat  farther,  whence 
it  is  called  an  allegory.  And  what  hath  it 
announced?  no  less  than  all  the  things  now 
present. 

Ver.  24.  "For  these  women"  he  says,  "are 
two  covenants;  one  from  mount  Sinai,  bearing 
children  unto  bondage,  which  is  Hagar." 

"  These:  "  who?  the  mothers  of  those  chil- 
dren, Sarah  and  Hagar;  and  what  are  they? 
Two  covenants,  two  laws.  As  the  names  of 
the  women  were  given  in  the  history,  he  abides 
by  this  designation  of  the  two  races,  showing 
how  much  follows  from  the  very  names.  How 
from  the  names? 

Ver.  25.  "  Now  this  Hagar  is  Mount  Sinai 
in  Arabia:  " 

The  bond -woman  was  called  Hagar  and 
"  Hagar"  is  the  word  for  Mount  Sinai  in  the 
language  of  that  country.*  So  that  it  is  neces- 
sary that  all  who  are  born  of  the  Old  Covenant 
should  be  bondmen,  for  that  mountain  where 
the  Old  Covenant  was  delivered  hath  a  name 
in  common  with  the  bondwoman.  And  it 
includes  Jerusalem,  for  this  is  the  meaning  of, 

1  ["  The  story  of  Hagar  and  Sarah  has  another  (namely  a  figura- 
tive, typical ^  meaning  besides  \not  instead  of)  the  literal  or  histor- 
ical. Paul  doe*  not  deny  the  fact  but  makes  it  the  bearer  of  a 
central  idea  which  mas  more  fully  expressed  in  two  covenants. 
He  uses  allegorical  here  in  a  sense  similar  to  the  word  **  typical  *' 
in  1  Cor   x  :    u  "-^ohaff— G.  A  ] 

See  on  this  difficult  passage  NchatFs  Excursus  im  Cam.  and 
I  ightfo»*t  s  iCv.-*rsms  xiii   c>*».  p   j^J — O.  A.] 

c  ^So  Meyer  :  **  In  Arabia  the  name  Hagar  (to  ~\yp\  signifies 
Mt  >ina«  **  But  Schatfsays  :  *•  It  cannot  be  satisfactorily  proven 
that  the  name  Hagar  was  an  Arabic  designation  for  Nit.  Sinai. 
a^  the  testimonies  of  Chrvsostom  and  the  traveler  Harant  are 
iv.»*.-,:c\!  ^nd  unconrirmed.  The  shorter  reading.  •  tor  Sinai 
is  a  ir.xir.tA.a  m  Arabia*  ire  yaa  5*ni  epoc  «o-r\r  «•  ri  *.Vp«S*«k 
given   hv  5 he  Sinaitic  and  other  MSS.   and  preferred  by   Lach- 

mann.    tischeadorf  and   Light  foot    (F-t.-mrsms  p.  tfi   of  C.-m        passage  -^<w- 

is  s^uitc  mteUigiMe  and  easily  gives  rise  to  the  loogeV  reading."-    Chri>tians>  ™MeV*r."  *  fSee  hi"  long'  and  *£!S^Hinte.)^G. 


*  [••  This  interpretation  of  Chrysostom  is  hardly  the  right  one. 
The  subject  of  cvrwro«x<t  i$  Hagar  and  not  Mt.  Sinai—a  view 
which  runs  counter  to  the  context.     It  means  that  Hagar  belongs 

,  to  the  same  category  with  the  present  lerusalem,  is  like  it  in  that 
she  was  >  bondwoman  as  Jerusalem  with  its  children  is  also  in 
bondage."     Mever— G   A  T 

1  *  ["  Against  this  view  of  Chrysostom  it  may  be  urged  that  irm 
««Ti  uma  viump  (which  is  our  mother^  is  proved  by  (ymp).  The 
passage  of   the  O.  T.  quoted  in  v.  *7  and  the  mmmm  includes  'all' 


Chapter  IV.] 


COMMENTARY  ON  GALATIANS. 


35 


Ver.  28.  "  Now  we,  brethren,  as  Isaac  was, 
are  children  of  promise." 

It  is  not  merely  that  the  Church  was  barren 
like  Sarah,  or  became  a  mother  of  many  child- 
ren like  her,  but  she  bore  them  in  the  way  Sarah 
did.  As  it  was  not  nature  but  the  promise  of 
God  which  rendered  Sarah  a  mother,  [for  the 
word  of  God  which  said.  "  At  the  time  appoint- 
ed I  will  return  unto  thee,  and  Sarah  shall  have 
a  son,"  (Gen.  xviii :  14.)  this  entered  into  the 
womb  and  formed  the  babe,]  so  also  in  our  regen- 
eration it  is  not  nature,  but  the  Words  of  God 
spoken  by  the  Priest,1  (the  faithful  know  them,) 
which  in  the  Bath  of  water  as  in  a  sort  of  womb, 
form  and  regenerate  him  who  is  baptized. 

Wherefore  if  we  are  sons  of  the  barren  woman, 
then  are  we  free.  But  what  kind  of  freedom,  it 
might  be  objected,  is  this,  when  the  Jews  seize 
and  scourge  the  believers,  and  those  who  have 
this  pretence  of  liberty  are  persecuted  ?  for 
these  things  then  occurred,  in  the  persecution 
of  the  faithful.  Neither  let  this  disturb  you,  he 
replies,  this  also  is  anticipated  in  the  type,  for 
Isaac,  who  was  free,  was  persecuted  by  Ishmael 
the  bondman.     Wherefore  he  adds, 

Ver.  29,  30.  "  But  as  then  he  that  was  born 
after  the  flesh  persecuted  him  that  was  born 
after  the  Spirit,  even  so  it  is  now.  Howbeit 
what  saith  the  Scripture?  (Gen.  xxi:  10.)  Cast 
out  the  handmaid  and  her  son  :  for  the  son  of 
the  handmaid  shall  not  inherit  with  the  son  of 
the  freewoman." 

What !  does  all  this  consolation  consist  in 
showing  that  freemen  are  persecuted  by  bond- 
men? By  no  means,  he  says,  I  do  not  stop 
here,  listen  to  what  follows,  and  then,  if  you  be 
not  pusillanimous  under  persecution,  you  will  be 
sufficiently  comforted.  And  what  is  it  that  fol- 
lows? "  Cast  out  the  son  of  the  handmaid,  for 
he  shall  not  inherit  with  the  son  of  the  free- 
woman."  Behold  the  reward  of  tyranny  for  a 
season,  and  of  reckleness  out  of  season  !  the  son 
is  cast  out  of  his  father's  house,  and  becomes, 


1  [  "  Cbrysostom  assumes  the  prevailing  conception  of  a  real 
priesthood  and  sacrifice,  baptismal  regeneration,  etc."— Schaff, 
Prolegomena,  p.  8.— G.  A.] 


together  with  his  mother,  an  exile  and  a  wan- 
derer. And  consider  too  the  wisdom  of  the  re- 
mark ;  for  he  says  not  that  he  was  cast  forth 
merely  because  he  persecuted,  but  that  he  should 
not  be  heir.  For  this  punishment  was  not  ex- 
acted from  him  on  account  of  his  temporary 
persecution,  (for  that  would  have  been  of  little 
moment,  and  nothing  to  the  point,)  but  he  was 
not  suffered  to  participate  in  the  inheritance 
provided  for  the  son.  And  this  proves  that, 
putting  the  persecution  aside,  this  very  thing 
had  been  typified  from  the  beginning,  and  did 
not  originate  in  the  persecution,  but  in  the  pur- 
pose of  God.  Nor  does  he  say,  "the  son  of 
Abraham  shall  not  be  heir/'  but,  "  the  son  of 
the  handmaid,"  distinguishing  him  by  his  infer- 
ior descent.  Now  Sarah  was  barren,  and  so  is 
the  Gentile  Church  ;2  observe  how  the  type  is 
preserved  in  every  particular,  as  the  former, 
through  all  the  by-gone  years,  conceived  not, 
and  in  extreme  old  age  became  a  mother,  so  the 
latter,  when  the  fulness  of  time  is  come,  brings 
forth.  And  this  the  prophets  have  proclaimed, 
saying,  "  Rejoice,  thou  barren  that  bearest  not ; 
break  forth  and  cry,  thou  that  travailest  not ; 
for  more  are  the  children  of  the  desolate  than 
of  her  which  hath  the  husband.' '  And  hereby 
they  intend  the  Church  ;  for  she  knew  not  God, 
but  as  soon  as  she  knew  Him,  she  surpassed  the 
fruitful  synagogue.3 

Ver.  31.  "  Wherefore,  brethren,  we  are  not 
children  of  a  handmaid  but  of  the  freewoman." 

He  turns  and  discusses  this  on  all  sides,  de- 
siring to  prove  that  what  had  taken  place  was 
no  novelty,  but  had  been  before  typified  many 
ages  ago.  How  then  can  it  be  otherwise  than 
absurd  for  those  who  had  been  set  apart  so  long 
and  who  had  obtained  freedom,  willingly  to 
subject  themselves  to  the  yoke  of  bondage  ? 

Next  he  states  another  inducement  to  them  to 
abide  in  his  doctrine. 

*  TSee  note  above  on  this  interpretation. — G.  A.] 

*  ["  Before  the  emergence  of  the  Christian  people  of  God,  the 
heavenly  Jerusalem  was  still  unpeopled,  childless,  ortlpa, '  barren/ 
ov  rucrowa  '  not  bearing.'  and  so  like  Sarah  before  she  became  the 
mother  of  Isaac.  But  with  the  emergence  of  the  Christian  people 
of  God  this  heavenly  Jerusalem  has  become  a  fruitful  mother  richer 
in  children  than  the  Jerusalem  that  now  is." — Meyer. — G.  A.] 


A 


CHAPTER  V. 


VERSE  I. 


"With  freedom  did  Christ  set  us  free;  stand  fast  there- 
fore, i  » 

Have  ye  wrought  your  own  deliverance,  that 
ye  run  back  again  to  the  dominion  ye  were  under 
before  ?  It  is  Another  who  hath  redeemed  you, 
it  is  Another  who  hath  paid  the  ransom  for  you. 
Observe  in  how  many  ways  he  leads  them 
away  from  the  error  of  Judaism ;  by  showing, 
first,  that  it  was  the  extreme  of  folly  for  those, 
who  had  become  free  instead  of  slaves,  to  desire 
to  become  slaves  instead  of  free;  secondly,  that 
they  would  be  convicted  of  neglect  and  ingratitude 
to  their  Benefactor,  in  despising  Him  who  had 
delivered,  and  loving  him  who  had  enslaved 
them;  thirdly,  that  it  was  impossible.  For 
Another  having  once  for  all  redeemed  all  of  us 
from  it,  the  Law  ceases  tp  have  any  sway.  By 
the  word,  "stand  fast,"  he  indicates  their 
vacillation. 

Ver.  i.  "And  be  not  entangled  again  in  a 
yoke  of  bondage." 

By  the  word  "  yoke"  he  signifies  to  them  the 
burdensomeness  of  such  a  course,  and  by  the 
word  "  again  "  he  points  out  their  utter  sense- 
lessness. Had  ye  never  experienced  this  burden, 
ye  would  not  have  deserved  so  severe  a  censure, 
but  for  you  who  by  trial  have  learnt  how  irksome 
this  yoke  is,  again  to  subject  yourself  to  it,  is 
justly  unpardonable. 

Ver.  2.  "  Behold,  I  Paul  say  unto  you,  that  if 
ye  receive  circumcision,  Christ  will  profit  you 
nothing." 

Lo,  what  a  threat !  reasonably  then  did  he 
anathematize  even  angels.  How  then  shall 
Christ  profit  them  nothing  ?  for  he  has  not  sup- 
ported this  by  argument,  but  only  declared  it, 
the  credence  due  to  his  authority,  compensating, 
as  it  were,  for  all  subsequent  proof.  Wherefore 
he  sets  out  by  saying,  "Behold,  I  Paul  say  unto 
you,  "  which  is  the  expression  of  one  who  has 
confidence  in  what  he  asserts.     We  will  subjoin 

1  TThe  text  of  this  verse  is  not  settled.  The  textus  rtcrptus  has 
rp  *\tv$tpi<f  ovv  p  xpmttJk  q*i.a.f  qAcv0cp«»<rc  <mj*eT«,  etc.  Chry- 
SOStom  has  rn  yap  eAevtfepta  jj  xptorbf  vna*  i£ijy6p<uri,  <rri}KCTc, 
etc.  W.  &  H.  have  rjj  e'Acv0cpia  qpd$  xpiorbs  riAtvBiputatv 
<m}»rrr«  olv  «ai,  etc.,  with  Aleph,  A.  B.  C.     Kev.  Ver. 

But  W.  &  H.  suspect  there  is  some  primitive  error.  Lightfoot 
joins  rjj  «Aev0epta  with  r»«  «Aev0e'paf  of  the  preceding  verse  and 
retains  the  relative  n,  making  it  read ;  We  are  sons  of  the  free 
woman  with  the  freedom  wherewith  Christ  freed  us.  Com.  in  loc. 
and  Excursus  p.  371. 


what  we  can  ourselves  as  to  how  Christ  shalt 
profit  nothing  them  who  are  circumcised. 

He  that  is  circumcised  is  circumcised  for  fear 
of  the  Law,  and  he  who"  fears  the  Law,  distrusts 
the  power  of  grace,  and  he  who  distrusts  can 
receive  no  benefit  from  that  which  is  distrusted. 
Or  again  thus,  he  that  is  circumcised  makes  the 
Law  of  force ;  but  thus  considering  it  to  be  of 
force  and  yet  transgressing  it  in  the  greater  part 
while  keeping  it  in  the  lesser,  he  puts  himself 
again  under  the  curse.  But  how  can  he  be 
saved  who  submits  himself  to  the  curse,  and 
repels  the  liberty  which  is  of  Faith  ?  If  one  may 
say  what  seems  a  paradox,  such  an  one  believes 
neither  Christ  nor  the  Law,  but  stands  between 
them,  desiring  to  benefit  both  by  one  and  the 
other,  whereas  he  will  reap  fruit  from  neither. 
Having  said  that  Christ  shall  profit  them  nothing, 
he  lays  down  the  proof2  of  it  shortly  and 
sententiously,  thus : 

Ver.  3.  "  Yea,  I  testify  again3  to  every  man 
that  receiveth  circumcision  that  he  is  a  debtor  to 
do  the  whole  Law." 

That  you  may  not  suppose  that  this  is  spoken 
from  ill-will4, 1  say  not  to  you  alone,  he  says,  but 
to  every  one  who  receiveth  circumcision,  that  he 
is  a  debtor  to  do  the  whole  Law.  The  parts  of 
the  Law  are  linked  one  to  the  other.  As  he 
who  from  being  free  has -enrolled  himself  as  a 
slave,  no  longer  does  what  he  pleases,  but  is  bound 
by  all  the  laws  of  slavery,  so  in  the  case  of  the 
Law,  if  you  take  upon  you  a  small  portion  of  it, 
and  submit  to  the  yoke,  you  draw  down  upon 
yourself  its  whole  domination.  And  so  it  is  in 
a  worldly  inheritance  :  he  who  touches  no  part 
of  it,  is  free  from  all  matters  which  are  conse- 
quent on  the  heirship  to  the  deceased,  but  if 
he  takes  a  small  portion,  though  not  the  whole, 
yet  by  that  part  he  has  rendered  himself  liable 
for  every  thing.     And  this  occurs  in  the  Law, 


'  [The  following  verse  does  not  introduce  proof  that  Christ 
shall  profit  them  nothing,  but  leads  on  to  more  detailed  information 
and  so  is  introduced  by  &*,  anient.  So  Meyer  ;  though  Lightfoot 
makes  Si  adversative  to  the  idea  of  u>$fAij<rfi,  and  so  Ellicott.  Rev. 
Ver.  agrees  with  Meyer's  view. — G.  A.] 

'["  Again  refers  to  'I  say'  in  preceding  sentences."  Schaff,  Light- 
foot, Ellicott.  Meyer  says,  "It  calls  to  the  remembrance  of  his 
readers  his  last  presence,"  (second  visit.) — G.  A.] 

4["  *  To  every  man '  stands  in  a  climactic  relation  to  foregoing 
vit.lv  remorselessly  embracing  all :  that  no  one  may  think  himself 
excluded.     Hence  Chrysostom's  view  is  wrong." — Meyer. — G.  A.] 


Chapter  V.] 


COMMENTARY  ON  GALATIANS. 


37 


not  only  in  the  way  I  have  mentioned,  but  in 
another  also,  for  Legal  observances  are  linked 
together.  For  example;  Circumcision  has 
sacrifice  connected  with  it,  and  the  observance 
of  days;  sacrifice  again  has  the  observance 
both  of  day  and  of  place ;  place  has  the  details 
of  endless  purifications  ;  purifications  involve  a 
perfect  swarm  of  manifold  observances.  For  it 
is  unlawful  for  the  unclean  to  sacrifice,  to  enter 
the  holy  shrines,  to  do  any  other  such  act. 
Thus  the  Law  introduces  many  things  even  by 
the  one  commandment.  If  then  thou  art  cir- 
cumcised, but  not  on  the  eighth  day,  or  on  the 
eighth  day,  but  no  sacrifice  is  offered,  or  a 
sacrifice  is  offered,  but  not  in  the  prescribed 
place,  or  in  the  prescribed  place,  but  not  the 
accustomed  objects,  or  if  the  accustomed  objects, 
but  thou  be  unclean,  or  if  clean  yet  not  purified 
by  proper  rules,  every  thing  is  frustrated. 
Wherefore1  he  says,  "that  he  is  a  debtor  to  the 
the  whole  Law."  Fulfil  not  a  part,  but  the 
whole,  if  the  Law  is  of  force ;  but  if  it  be  not  of 
force,  not  even  a  part. 

Ver.  4.  "Ye  are  severed  from  Christ,  ye  who 
would  be  justified  by  the  Law;  ye  are  fallen 
away  from  grace." 

Having  established  his  point,  he  at  length 
declares  their  danger  of  the  severest  punish- 
ment. When  a  man  recurs  to  the  Law,  which 
cannot  save  him,  and  falls  from  grace,  what  re- 
mains but  an  inexorable  retribution,  the  Law 
being  powerless,  and  grace  rejecting  him? 

Thus  having  aggravated  their  alarm,  and  dis- 
quieted their  mind,  and  shown  them  all  the 
shipwreck  they  were  about  to  suffer,  he  opens  to 
them  the  haven  of  grace  which  was  near  at 
hand.  This  is  ever  his  wont,  and  he  shows  that 
in  this  quarter  salvation  is  easy  and  secure,  sub- 
joining the  words, 

Ver.  5.  "  For  we  through  the  Spirit  by  faith 
wait  for  the  hope  of  righteousness.'  * 

We  need  none  of  those  legal  observances,  he 
says ;  faith  suffices  to  obtain  for  us  the  Spirit, 
and  by  Him  righteousness,  and  many  and  great 
benefits. 

Ver.  6.  "For  in  Jesus  Christ  neither  circum- 
cision availeth  any  thing,  nor  uncircumcision  ;3 
but  faith  working  through  love." 

Observe  the  great  boldness  with   which  he 
now  encounters  them  ;  Let  him  that  hath  put  on 
Christ,  he  says,  no  longer  be  carefijl  about  such  I 
matters.    Having  before  said  that  Circumcision  I 
was  hurtful,  how  is  it  that  he  now  considers  it 
indifferent  ?     It  is  indifferent  as  to  those  who 

1  [Perhaps  Paul's  reason  for  his  statement  that  every  one  who 
suffers  himself  to  be  circumcised  is  a  debtor  to  keep  the  whole  Law 
is  this  Scripture  which  he  quotes  in  iii :  10:  Cursed  is  he  that  con- 
tinueth  not  in  all  the  things  that  are  written  etc.  —  G.  A.] 
.  *  ["  The  Holy  Spirit  is  the  divine  '  agent  '  and  faith  is  the  sub- 
jective '  source  '  of  our  expectation."— Meyer, — G.  A.] 

1  ["  Circumcision  and  uncircumsion  are  circumstances  of  no  ef- 
fect or  avail  In  Christianity;  and  yet  they  were  in  Galatia  the  points 
m  which  the  disturbance  turned/' — Meyer,— G.  A.]  I 


had  it  previously  to  the  Faith,  but  not  as  to 
those  who  are  circumcised  after  the  Faith  was 
given.  Observe  too  the  view  in  which  he 
places  it,  by  setting  it  by  the  side  of  Uncircum- 
cision ;  it  is  Faith  that  makes  the  difference. 
As  in  the  selection  of  wrestlers,  whether  they  be 
hook-nosed  or  flat-nosed,  black  or  white,  is  of 
no  importance  in  their  trial,  it  is  only  necessary 
to  seek  that  they  be  strong  and  skilful ;  so  all 
these  bodily  accidents  do  not  injure  one  who  is 
to  be  enrolled  under  the  New  Covenant,  nor 
does  their  presence  assist  him. 

What  is  the  meaning  of  "  working  through 
love?  "4  Here  he  gives  them  a  hard  blow,  by 
showing  that  this  error  had  crept  in  because  the 
love  of  Christ  had  not  been  rooted  within  them. 
For  to  believe  is  not  all  that  is  required,  but  also 
to  abide  in  love.  It  is  as  if  he  had  said,  Had 
ye  loved  Christ  as  ye  ought,  ye  would  not  have 
deserted  to  bondage,  nor  abandoned  Him  who  re- 
deemed you,  nor  treated  with  contumely  Him 
who  gave  you  freedom.  Here  he  also  hints  at 
those  who  have  plotted  against  them,  implying 
that  they  would  not  have  dared  to  do  so,  had 
they  felt  affection  towards  them.  He  wishes  too 
by  these  words  to  correct  their  course  of  life. 

Ver.  7.  "Ye  were  running  well;  who  did 
hinder  you  ?5 

This  is  not  an  interrogation,  but  an  expres- 
sion of  doubt  and  soroow.  How  hath  such  a 
course  been  cut  short  ?  who  hath  been  able  to 
do  this  ?  ye  who  were  superior  to  all  and  in  the 
rank  of  teachers,  have  not  even  continued  in  the 
position  of  disciples.  What  has  happened  ? 
who  could  do  this  ?  these  are  rather  the  words 
of  one  who  is  exclaiming  and  lamenting,  as  he 
said  before,  "  Who  did  bewitch  you  ?  "  (Gal. 
111 :  1.) 

Ver.  8.  "  This  persuasion  came  not  of  him 
that  calleth  you." 

He  who  called  you,  called  you  not  to  such 
fluctuations,  he  did  not  lay  down  a  Law,  that  you 
should  judaize.  Then,  that  no  one  might  ob- 
ject, "  Why  do  you  thus  magnify  and  aggra- 
vate the  matter  by  your  words ;  one  command- 
ment only  of  the  Law  have '  we  kept,  and  yet 
you  make  this  great  outcry  ?  "  hear  how  he  ter- 
rifies them,  not  by  things  present  but  future  in 
these  words : 

Ver.  7.  "A  little  leaven  leaveneth  the  whole 
lump." 

And  thus  this  slight  error,  he  says,  if  not  cor- 

*  ["  How  necessary  it  was  for  the  Galatians  that  prominence 
should  be  given  to  the  activity  of  faith  *  in  love  '  may  be  seen  from. 
verses  15,  20,  26.  The  passive  view  of  Iprpyov/ueVij  (wrought 
through  love)  as  held  by  some  Fathers  and  by  Catholics  is  erron- 
eous. In  New  Test.  ivtpytlaBai  is  always  middle  : '  faith  *  which 
is  operative  through  love.  '  '—Meyer—  G.  A.] 

Light  foot  says  :  "  The  words  Si  ayairijf  <v*pyov/uL«Vrj  bridge  over 
the  gulf  which  seems  to  separate  the  language  of  St.  Paul  and  St. 
lames.  Both  assert  a  principle  of  practical  energy  as  opposed  to  a 
barren  theory." — G.  A.j 

*  [The  words  a\ri$eia  ^1)  irft'0«r0£i  are  wanting  in  Chysot- 
tom*s  text.— G.  A.] 


J*_  - 

rented,  will  hax*  pawr  v*s  the  leaven  has  with 
the  lump)  to  lead  vou  mu>  complete  Judaism. 

Ver  to  -  I  h*W  ^nfKIence  to  you-ward  in 
the  Lord,  that  >*  will  I*  none  otherwise  mind- 
ed " 

Mo  do<*  wo*  m\»  1%  ve  are  not  minded,"  but, 

-  xv  *iU  «o«  ^s  nmulcil;  "  that  is,  you  will  be 
^  n<ht  Vud  how  does  he  know  this?  he 
vn,  ltU  -  I  know/1  but  «•  I  trust  in  God,  and 
tttw^kiu^  H»  »M  in  ort^er  to  y°ur  correction,  I 
am  \\\  \\s*\*>\  M  »wd  he  says,  not  merely,  "I 
iu\c  wntulonee  in  the  Lord,"  but,  "  I  have  con- 
ikUmuv  towards  you  in  the  Lord."  Every  where 
\w  wmuvts  complaint  with  his  praises  ;  here  it 
i*  .**  it  he  hail  said,  I  know  my  disciples,  I 
know  your  readiness  to  be  set  right.  I  have 
Hood  hopes,  partly  because  of  the  Lord  who 
nulU-ni  nothing,  however  trival,  to  perish,  partly 
bet  .uiMf  of  you  who  are  quickly  to  recover  your- 
sidvi's.  At  the  same  time  he  exhorts  them  to 
iiw  diligence  on  their  own  parts,  it  not  being 
imssililt*  to  obtain  aid  from  God,  if  our  own  ef- 
forts are  not  contributed. 

Ver.  10.  "  But  he  that  troubleth  you  shall 
bear  his  judgment,  whosoever  he  be." 

Not  only  by  words  of  encouragement,  but  by 
uttering  a  curse  or  a  prophecy  against  their 
teachers,  he  applies  to  them  an  incentive.  And 
otaer  ve  that  he  never  mentions  the  name  of  these 
plotters,  that  they  might  not  become  more  shame- 
less. His  meaning  is  as  follows.  Not  because 
4i  ye  will  be  none  otherwise  minded,"  are  the 
authors  of  your  seduction  relieved  from  punish- 
ment. They  shall  be  punished ;  for  it  is  not 
proper  that  the  good  conduct  of  the  one  should 
l>ccome  an  encouragement  to  the  evil  disposition 
of  the  other.  This  is  said  that  they  might  not 
make  a  second  attempt  upon  others.  And  he 
says  not  merely,  "he  that  troubleth,"  but,  "who- 
soever he  be,"  in  the  way  of  aggravation. 

Ver.  ii.  "But  I,  brethren,  if  I  still  preach 
circumcision,  why  am  I  still  persecuted?" 

Observe  how  clearly  he  exonerates  himself 
from  the  charge,1  that  in  every  place  he  judaized 
and  played  the  hypocrite  in  his  preaching.  Of 
this  he  calls  them  "as  witnesses  ;  for  ye  know,  he 
gays,  that  my  command  to  abandon  the  Law 
was  made  the  pretext  for  persecuting  me.  "  If 
I  still  preach  circumcision,  why  am  I  still  per- 
secuted ?  for  this  is  the  only  charge  which  they 
of  the  Jewish  descent  have  to  bring  against  me. 
Had  I  permitted  them  to  receive  the  Faith,  still 
retaining  the  customs  of  their  fathers,  neither 
believers  nor  unbelievers  would  have  laid  snares 
for  me,  seeing  that  none  of  their  own  usages 

1  ["The   false  teachers  had  spread  the  malicious  report  that 
aul  himself  preached  circumcision  because  he   Dracticeu  it  in  the 


WORKS  OF  ST.  CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Chapter  V. 


Paul  himself  preached  circumcision  because  he   practicei 
case  of  Timothy.     But  this  was  a  measure  of  expediency  ; 

-vScharT. 
■'  This  calumny  was  sufficiently  absurd  to  admit  of  his  dismiss- 


iency  and  char- 


ity and  not  a  surrender  ofprinciple."- 
"  This  calumny  was  sufficiently  abs 
tag  it.  as  he  does  here,  with  all  brevity  and  with  what  a  striking 
experimental  proof!  "—Meyer.— G.  A.] 


were  disturbed.  What  then  !  did  he  not  preach 
circumcision?  did  he  not  circumcise  Timothy? 
Truly  he  did.  How  then  can  he  say,  "  Lpreach 
it  not?"  Here  observe  his  accuracy;  he  says 
not,  "I  do  not  perform  circumcision,"  but,  "I 
preach  it  not,"  that  is,  I  do  not  bid  men  so  to 
believe.  Do  not  therefore  consider  it  any  con- 
firmation of  your  doctrine,  for  though  I  circum- 
dised,  I  did  not  preach  circumcision. 

Ver.   ii     "Then  hath  the  stumbling  block 
of  the  cross  been  done  away." 

That  is,  if  this  which  ye  assert  be  true,  the 
obstacle,  the  hindrance,  is  removed;  for  not 
even  the  Cross  was  so  great  an  offence  to  the 
Jews,  as  the  doctrine  that  their  father's  customs 
ought  not  to  be  obeyed.  When  they  brought 
Stephen  before  the  council,  they  said  not  that 
this  man  adores  the  Crucified,  but  that  he  speaks 
"  against  this  holy  place  and  the  Law."  (Acts 
vi :  13.)  And  it  was  of  this  they  accused  Jesus, 
that  He  broke  the  Law.  Wherefore  Paul  says, 
If  Circumcision  be  conceded,  the  strife  you  are 
involved  in  is  appeased ;  hereafter  no  enmity  to 
the  Cross  and  our  preaching  remains.  But  why 
do  they  bring  this  charge  against  us,  while  wait- 
ing day  after  day  to  murder  us  ?  it  is  because 
I  brought  an  uncircumcised  man  into  the 
Temple  (Acts  xxi  :  29.  )  that  they  fell  upon 
me.  Am  I  then,  he  says,  so  senseless,  after 
giving  up  the  point  of  Circumcision,  vainly  and 
idly  to  expose  myself  to  such  injuries,  and 
to  place  such  a  stumbling-block  before  the 
Cross?  For  ye  observe,  that  they  attack  us  for 
nothing  with  such  vehemence  as  about  Circum- 
cision. Am  I  then  so  senseless  as  to  suffer 
affliction  for  nothing  at  all,  and  to  give  offence 
to  others?  He  calls  it  the  offence  of  the  Cross, 
because  it  was  enjoined  by  the  doctrine  of  the 
Cross ;  and  it  was  this  which  principally  offend- 
ed the  Jews,  and  hindered  their  reception  of  the 
Cross,  namely,  the  command  to  abandon  the 
usages  of  their  fathers. 

Ver.  12.  "I  would  that  they  which  unsettle 
you,  would  even  cut  themselves  off." 

Observe  how  bitterly  he  speaks  here  against 
their  deceivers.2  At  the  outset  he  directed  his 
charge  against  those  who  were  deceived,  and 
called  them  foolish,  once  and  again.  Now,  hav- 
ing sufficiently  corrected  and  instructed  them, 
he  turns  to  their  deceivers.  And  you  should 
remark  his  wisdom  in  the  manner  in  which  he 

-  [  "  The  vivid  realization  of  the  doings  of  his  opponents,  who 
were  not  ashamed  to  resort  even  to  such  falsehood,  now  wrings  from 
his  soul  a  strong  and  bitterly  sarcastic  wish  of  holy  indignation." 
— Meyer. 

Paul  wishes  that  the  circumci^ers  would  not  stop  with  circum- 
cision but  go  beyond  it  to  mutilation  (make  themselves  eunuchs) 
like  the  priests  of  Cybele.  A  severe  irony  and  similar  to  the  one 
in  Phil,  iii:  2,  3.  where  Paul  calls  the  boasters  of  circumcision  "the 
Concision."  Self  mutilation  was  a  recognized  form  of  heathen  wor- 
ship especially  in  Pessinus  in  Galatia  and  therefore  quite  familiar 
to  the  readers.  Thus  by  their  glorying  in  the  flesh  the  Galatians 
relapsed  into  their  former  heathenism, — Schaff  and  Light  foot.  The 
Revised  Version  here  has,  "  would  even  cut  themselves  off,"  the 
American  Committee  has,  "  would  go  beyond  circumcision  — G.  A.] 


Chapter  V.] 


COMMENTARY  ON  GALATIAN5. 


39 


admonishes  and  chastens  the  former  as  his  own 
children,  and  as  capable  of  receiving  correction, 
but  their  deceivers  he  cuts  off,  as  aliens  and  in- 
curably depraved.     And  this  he  does,  partly, 
when  he  says,  "he  shall  bear  his  judgment  who- 
soever he  be ;  "  partly  when  he  utters  the  impre- 
cation against  them,  "I  would  that  they  which 
unsettle  you  would  even  cut  themselves  off. ' '  And 
he  says  well '  'that  unsettle  you. ' '     For  they  had 
compelled  them  to  abandon  their  own  father- 
land, their  liberty,  and  their  heavenly  kindred, 
and  to  seek  an  alien  and  foreign  one ;  they  had 
cast  them  out  of  Jerusalem  which  is  above  and 
free,  and  compelled  them  to  wander  forth  as 
captives  and  emigrants.     On   this  account  he 
curses  them;  and  his  meaning  is   as   follows, 
For  them   I   have  no  concern,  "  A  man  that 
is  heretical    after  the   first    and   second    ad- 
monition refuse.' '  (  Tit.  iii :  10  )     If  they  will, 
let  them  not  only  be   circumcised,  but   muti- 
lated.     Where  then    are    those   who  dare  to 
mutilate  themselves l ;    seeing   that   they  draw 
down    the    Apostolic  curse,    and    accuse   the 
workmanship    of    God,    and   take    part   with 
the   Manichees?       For    the    latter    call    the 
body  a  treacherous  thing,  and  from  the  evil 
principle;  and  the  former  by  their  acts  give 
countenance  to  these  wretched  doctrines,  cut- 
ting off  the  member  as  being  hostile  and  treach- 
erous.    Ought  they  not  much  rather  to  put  out 
the  eyes,  for  it  is  through  the  eyes  that  'desire 
enters  the  soul?     But  in  truth  neither  the  eye 
nor  any  other  part  of  us  is  to  blame,  but  the  de- 
praved will  only.     But  if  you  will  not  allow  this, 
why  do  you  not  mutilate  the  tongue  for  blasphe- 
my, the  hands  for  rapine,  the  feet  for  their  evil 
courses,  in  short,  the  whole  body  ?     For  the  ear 
enchanted  by  the  sound  of  a  flute  hath  often  en- 
ervated the  soul ;  and  the  perception  of  a  sweet 
perfume  by   the  nostrils   hath   bewitched   the 
mind,  and  made  it  frantic  for  pleasure.     Yet 
this  would  be  extreme  wickedness  and  satanic 
madness.     The  evil  spirit,   ever  delighting  in 
slaughter,  hath  seduced  them  to  crush  the  in- 
strument, as  if  its  Maker  had  erred,  whereas  it 
was  only  necessary  to  correct  the  unruly  passion 
of  the  soul.     How  then  does  it  happen,  one 
may  say,  that  when  the  body  is  pampered,  lust 
is  inflamed  ?     Observe  here  too  that  it  is  the  sin 
of  the  soul,  for  to  pamper  the  flesh  is  not  an 
act  of  the  flesh   but  of  the  soul,  for  if  the  soul 
choose  to  mortify  it,  it  would  possess  absolute 
power  over  it.     But  what  you  do  is  just  the  same 
as  if  one    seeing    a  man  lighting   a   fire,  and 
heaping  on  fuel,  and  setting  fire  to   a  house, 
were  to  blame   the  fire,   instead   of  him   who 
kindled  it,  because  it  had  caught  this  heap  of 
fuel,  and  risen  to  a  great  height.     Yet  the  blame 

['AffOftonrctr  iavrov*.  Chrysostom  here,  as  often,  "goes  off  at 
a  word"  ini0  a  digression  on  a  subject  Which  is  only  remotely  sug- 
gested by  the  passage  in  hand.— G.  A.  J 


would  attach  not  to  the  fire  but  to  the  one  who 
kindled  it ;  for  it  was  given  for  the  purpose  of 
dressing  food,  affording  light,  and  other  like 
ministries,  not  for  burning  houses.  In  like 
manner  desire  is  implanted  for  the  rearing  of 
families  and  the  ensuring  of  life,  not  for  adul- 
tery, or  fornication,  or  lasciviousness ;  that  a 
man  may  become  a  father,  not  an  adulterer ;  a 
lawful  husband,  not  a  seducer;  leaving  heirs 
after  him,  not  doing  damage  to  another  man's. 
For  adultery  arises  not  from  nature,  but  from 
wantonness  against  nature,  which  prescribes  the 
use  not  the  misuse.  These  remarks  I  have  not 
made  at  random,  but  as  a  prelude  to  a  dispute, 
as  skirmishing  against  those  who  assert  that  the 
workmanship  of  God  is  evil,  and  who  neglecting 
the  sloth  of  the  soul,  madly  inveigh  against  the 
body,  and  traduce  our  flesh,  whereof  Paul  after- 
wards discourses,  accusing  not  the  flesh,  but  dev- 
ilish thoughts. 

Ver.  13.  "  For  ye,  brethren,  were  called  for 
freedom  ;  only  use  not  your  freedom  for  an  oc- 
casion to  the  flesh.' ' 

Henceforward  he  appears  to  digress2  into  a 
moral  discourse,  but  in  a  new  manner,  which 
does  not  occur  in  any  other  of  his  Epistles. 
For  all  of  them  are  divided  into  two  parts,  and 
in  the  first  he  discusses  doctrine,  in  the  last  the 
rule  of  life,  but  here,  after  having  entered  upon 
the  moral  discourse,  he  again  unites  with  it  the 
doctrinal  part.  For  this  passage  has  reference 
to  doctrine  in  the  controversy  with  the  Mani- 
chees.8 What  is  the  meaning  of,  "  Use  not 
your  freedom  for  an  occasion  to  the  flesh?" 
Christ  hath  delivered  us,  he  says,  from  the  yoke 
of  bondage,  He  hath  left  us  free  to  act  as  we 
will,  not  that  we  may  use  our  liberty  for  evil, 
but  that  we  may  have  ground  for  receiving  a 
higher  reward,  advancing  to  a  higher  philoso- 
phy. Lest  any  one  should  suspect,  from  his 
calling  the  Law  over  and  over  again  a  yoke  of 
bondage,  and  a  bringing  on  of  the  curse,  that 
his  object  in  enjoining  an  abandonment  of  the 
Law,  was  that  one  might  live  lawlessly,  he  cor- 
rects this  notion,  and  states  his  object  to  be, 
not  that  our  course  of  life  might  be  lawless,  but 
that  our  philosophy  might  surpass  the  Law. 
For  the  bonds  of  the  Law  are  broken,  and  I  say 
this  not  that  our  standard  may  be  lowered,  but 
that  it  may  be  exalted.  For  both  he  who  com- 
mits fornication,  and  he  who  leads  a  virgin  life, 
pass  the  bounds  of  the  Law,  but  not  in  the 
same  direction  ;  the  one  is  led  away  to  the  worse, 
the  other  is  elevated  to  the  better ;  the  one 
transgresses  the  Law,  the  other  transcends  it. 

9  [This  is  not  a  digression.  It  is  in  strict  continuity  with  the 
proceeding  context  and  gives  a  reason  for  the  indignant  expression 
of  the  foregoing  sentence. 

"They  are  defeating  the  very  purpose  of  your  calling  :  ye  were 
called  for  liberty  and  not  for  bondage." — Light  foot .— G.  A.l 

3  [  On  the  doctrine  of  the  Manichees  see  Schaff  Church  History 
vol.  ii.  p.  408-508,  where  a  full  account  of  the  literature  is  given 
also. — G.  A.J 


40 


WORKS  OF  ST.  CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Chapter  V. 


Thus  Paul  says  that  Christ  hath  removed  the 
yoke  from  you,  not  that  ye  may  prance  and 
kick,  but  that  though  without  the  yoke  ye  may 
proceed  at  a  well -measured  pace.  And  next  he 
shows  the  mode  whereby  this  may  be  readily  ef- 
tected ;  and  what  is  this  mode  ?     he  says, 

Ver.  13.  "But  through  love  be  servants  one 
to  another." 1 

Here  again  he  hints  that  strife  and  party- 
spirit,  love  of  rule  and  presumptousness,  had 
been  the  causes  of  their  error,  for  the  desire  of 
rule  is  the  mother  of  heresies.  By  saying,  "  Be 
servants  one  to  another,"  he  shows  that  the  evil 
had  arisen  from  this  presumptuous  and  arrogant 
spirit,  and  therefore  he  applies  a  corresponding 
remedy.  As  your  divisions  arose  from  your  de- 
sire to  domineer  over  each  other,  "serve  one 
another;"  thus  will  ye  be  reconciled  again. 
However,  he  does  not  openly  express  their  fault, 
but  he  openly  tells  them  its  corrective/  that 
through  this  they  may  become  aware  of  that ;  as 
if  one  were  not  to  tell  an  immodest  person  of 
his  immodesty,  but  were  continually  to  exhort 
him  to  chastity.  He  that  loves  his  neighbor  as 
he  ought,  declines  not  to  be  servant  to  him 
more  humbly  than  any  servant.  As  fire,  brought 
into  contact  with  wax,  easily  softens  it,  so  does 
the  warmth  of  love  dissolve  all  arrogance  and 
presumption  more  powerfully  than  fire.  Where- 
fore he  says  not,  "  love  one  another,"  merely, 
but,  "  be  servants  one  to  another,"  thus  signi- 
fying the  intensity  of  the  affection.  When  the 
yoke  of  the  Law  was  taken  off  them  that  they 
might  not  caper  off  and  away  another  was  laid 
on,  that  of  love,  stronger  than  the  former,  yet 
far  lighter  and  pleasanter;  and,'  to  point  out 
the  way  to  obey  it,  he  adds ; 

Ver.  14.  "  For  the  whole  law  is  fulfilled  in 
one  word,  even  in  this ;  Thou  shalt  love  thy 
neighbor  as  thyself." 

Seeing  that  they  made  so  much  of  the  Law, 
he  says,  "  If  you  you  wish  to  fulfill  it,  do  not 
be  circumcised,  for  it  is  fulfilled  not  in  circum- 
cision but  in  love. ' '  Observe  how  he  cannot  for- 
get his  grief,  but  constantly  touches  upon  what 
troubled  him,  even  when  launched  into  his 
moral  discourse. 

Ver.  15.  "  But  if  ye  bite  and  devour  one  an- 
other, take  heed  that  ye  be  not  consumed  one 
of  another." 

That  he  may  not  distress  them,  he  does  not 
assert  this,  though  he  knew  it  was  the  case,2  but 
mentions  it  ambiguously.  For  he  does  not  say, 
"  Inasmuch  as  ye  bite  one  another,"  nor  again 
does  he  assert,  in  the  clause  following,  that  they 
shall  be  consumed  by  each   other;  but  "take 

1  ["  An  ingenious  juxtaposition  of '  freedom  '  and  brotherly  '  ser- 
Tice'  in  that  freedom." — Meyer. 

Ye  were  called  for  '  freedom,'  but  through  love  make  yourselves 
trilling  '  bond-servants '  to  each  other." — .G  A.] 

*  [See  Light  foot,  Introduction,  p.  39.  Note  3. — G.  A.J 


heed  that  ye  be  not  consumed  one  of  another," 
and  this  is  the  language  of  apprehension  and 
warning,  not  of  condemnation.  And  the  words 
which  he  uses  are  expressly  significant ;  he  says 
not  merely,  "  ye  bite,"  which  one  might  do  in 
a  passion,  but  also  "  ye  devour,"  which  implies 
a  bearing  of  malice.  To  bite  is  to  satisfy  the  feel- 
ing of  anger,  but  to  devour  is  a  proof  of  the 
most  savage  ferocity.  The  biting  and  devouring 
he  speaks  of  are  not  bodily,  but  of  a  much  more 
cruel  kind ;  for  it  is  not  such  an  injury  to  taste 
the  flesh  of  man,  as  to  fix  one's  fangs  in  his 
soul.  In  proportion  as  the  soul  is  more  precious 
than  the  body,  is  damage  to  it  more  serious. 
"Take  heed  that  ye  be  not  consumed  one  of 
another."  For  those  who  commit  injury  and 
lay  plots,  do  so  in  order  to  destroy  others; 
therefore  he  says,  Take  heed  that  this  evil  fall 
not  on  your  own  heads.  For  strife  and  dissen- 
sions are  the  ruin  and  destruction  as  well  of 
those  who  admit  as  of  those  who  introduce 
them,  and  eats  out  every  thing  worse  than  a 
moth  does. 

Ver.  16.  "  But  I  say,  Walk  by  the  Spirit,  and 
ye  shall  not  fulfil  the  lust  of  the  flesh." 

Here  he  points  out  another8  path  which  makes 
duty  easy,  and  secures  what  had  been  said,  a 
path  whereby  love  is  generated,  and  which  is 
fenced  in  by  love.  For  nothing,  nothing  I  say, 
renders  us  so  susceptible  of  love,  as  to  be  spirit- 
ual, and  nothing  is  such  an  inducement  to  the 
Spirit  to  abide  in  us,  as  the  strength  of  love. 
Therefore  he  says,  '  Walk  by  the  Spirit  and  ye 
shall  not  fulfil  the  lust  of  the  flesh :  "  having 
spoken  of  the  cause  of  the  disease,  he  likewise 
mentions  the  remedy  which  confers  health.  And 
what  is  this,  what  is  the  destruction  of  the  evils 
we  have  spoken  of,  but  the  life  in  the  Spirit  ? 
hence  he  says,  "  Walk  by  the  Spirit  and  ye  shall 
not  fulfil  the  lust  of  the  flesh." 

Ver.  17.  "For  the  flesh  lusteth  against  the 
Spirit,  and  the  Spirit  against  the  flesh,  for  these 
are  contrary  the  one  to  the  other :  that  ye  may 
not  do  the  things  that  ye  would." 

Here  some  make  the  charge  that  the  Apostle 
has  divided  man  into  two  parts,  and  that  he 
states  the  essence  of  which  he  is  compounded  to 
be  conflicting  with  itself,  and  that  the  body  has 
a  contest  with  the  soul.  But  this  is  not  so,  most 
certainly;  for  by  "the  flesh,"  he  does  not 
mean  the  body ;  if  he  did,  what  would  be  the 
sense  of  the  clause  immediately  following,  "  for 
it  lusteth,"  he  says,  "  against  the  Spirit  ?  "  yet 
the  body  moves  not,  but  is  moved,  is  not  an 
agent,   but   is  acted  upon.     How  then  does  it 

J  ["  Paul  returns  to  the  warning  in  ver.  13,  not  to  abuse  their 
freedom  for  an  occasion  to  the  '  flesh  '  " — Schaff. 

"  In  verse  13  he  had  warned  them  against  using  liberty  for  an 
occasion  to  the  flesh  ;  now,  ver.  16,  he  shows  them  how  they  arc  to 
accompli.4h  that  end  and  this  introduces  the  deadly  and  intermi- 
nable antagonism  between  the  spirit  and  the  flesh." — Light  foot. 
A.] 


Chapter  V.J 


COMMENTARY  ON  GALATIANS. 


4i 


f 


lust,  for  lust  belongs  to  the  soul  not  to  the  body, 
for  in  another  place  it  is  said,  "My  soul  long- 
ed," (Ps.  lxxx  iv :  2. )  and,  "Whatsoever  thy  soul 
desireth,  I  will  even  do  it  for  thee,"  (1  Sam.  xx : 
4.)  and,  "  Walk  not  according  to  the  desires  of 
thy  heart,"  and,   "  So  panteth  my  soul. M  (Ps. 
xlii:  1.)    Wherefore  then  does  Paul  say,  "the 
flesh  lusteth  against  the  Spirit  ?  "  he  is  wont  to 
call  the  flesh,  not  the  natural  body  but  the  de- 
praved will,  as  where  he  says,  "  But  ye  are  not 
in  the  flesh,  but  in  the  Spirit,"  (Rom.  viii :  8,  9.) 
and  again,  "They  that  are  in  the  flesh  cannot 
please  God."  What  then?  Is  the  flesh  to  be  de- 
stroyed? was  not  he  who  thus  spoke  clothed 
with  flesh?  such  doctrines  are  not  of  the  flesh, 
but  from  the  Devil,  for  ' '  he  was  a  murderer  from 
the  beginning."  (John  viii:  44.)    What  then  is 
his  meaning?  it  is  the  earthly  mind,  slothful 
and  careless,  that  he  here  calls  the  flesh,  and  this 
is  not  an  accusation  of  the  body,  but  a  charge 
against  the  slothful  soul.    The  flesh  is  an  instru- 
ment, and  no  one  feels  aversion  and  hatred  to 
an  instrument,  but  to  him  who  abuses  it.     For 
it  is  not  the  iron  instrument  but  the  murderer, 
whom  we  hate  and  punish.  But  it  may  be  said  that 
the  very  calling  of  the  faults  of  the  soul  by  the 
name  of  the  flesh  is  in  itself  an  accusation  of 
the  body.     And  I  admit  that  the  flesh  is  inferior 
to  the  soul,  yet  it  too  is  good,  for  that  which  is 
inferior  to  what  is  good  may  itself  be  good,  but  evil 
is  not  inferior  to  good,  but  opposed  to  it.    Now 
if  you  are  able  to  prove  to  me  that  evil  originates 
from  the  body,  you  are  at  liberty  to  accuse 
it;  but  if  your  endeavor  is  to  turn  its  name  into 
a  charge  against  it,  you  ought  to  accuse  the  soul 
likewise.     For  he  that  is  deprived  of  the  truth 
is  called  "the  natural  man."  (1  Cor.  11  :  14. )l 
and  the  race  of  demons  "  the  spirits  of  wicked- 
ness." (Eph.  vi :   12.) 

Again,  the  Scripture  is  wont  to  give  the  name 
of  the  Flesh  to  the  Mysteries  of  the  Eucharist, 
and  to  the  whole  Church,  calling  them  the 
Body  of  Christ.  (Col.  i:  24.)  Nay,  to  induce 
you  to  give  the  name  of  blessings  to  the  things  of 
which  the  flesh  is  the  medium,  you  have  only 
to  imagine  the  extinction  of  the  senses,  and  you 
will  find  the  soul  deprived  of  all  discernment, 
and  ignorant  of  what  it  before  knew.  For  if 
the  power  of  God  is  since  "  the  creation  of  the 
world  clearly  seen,  being  perceived  through  the 
things  that  are  made,"  (Rom.  i :  20.)  how  could 
we  see  them  without  eyes?  and  if  "faith 
cometh  of  hearing,"  (Rom.  x:  17.)  how  shall 
we  hear  without  ears  ?  and  preaching  depends 
on  making  circuits  wherein  the  tongue  and  feet 
are  employed.  "  For  how  shall  they  preach, 
except  they  be  sent?  "  (Rom.  x :  15.)  In  the 
same  way  writing  is  performed  by  means  of  the 
hands.     Do  you  not  see  that  the  ministry  of  the 

1  [That  is,  the  "  psychical"  man,  from  ^v\^t  the  soul.— G.  A.] 


flesh  produces  for  us  a  thousand  benefits  ?  In 
his  expression,  "the  flesh  lusteth  against  the 
Spirit,"  he  means  two  mental  states.  For  these 
are  opposed  to  each  other,  namely  virtue  and 
vice,  not  the  soul  and  the  body.  Were  the  two 
latter  so  opposed  they  would  be  destructive  of 
one  another,  as  fire  of  water,  and  darkness  of 
light.  But  if  the  soul  cares  for  the  body,  and 
takes  great  forethought  on  its  account,  and  suf- 
fers a  thousand  things  in  order  not  to  leave  it, 
and  resists  being  separated  from  it,  and  if  the 
body  too  ministers  to  the  soul,  and  conveys  to 
it  much  knowledge,  and  is  adapted  to  its  opera- 
tions, how  can  they  be  contrary,  and  conflict- 
ing with  each  other  ?  For  my  part,  I  perceive 
by  their  acts  that  they  are  not  only  not  contrary 
but  closely  accordant  and  attached  one  to 
another.  It  is  not  therefore  of  these  that  he 
speaks  as  opposed  to  each  other,  but  he  refers 
to  the  contest  of  bad  and  good  principles. 
(Compare  Rom.  vii :  23.)  To  will  and  not  to 
will  belongs  to  the  sbul;  wherefore  he  says, 
"  these  are  contrary  the  one  to  the  other,"  that 
you  may  not  suffer  the  soul  to  proceed  in  its 
evil  desires.  For  he  speaks  this  like  a  Master 
and  Teacher  in  a  threatening  way. 

Ver.  18.  "  But  if  ye  are  led  by  the  Spirit,  ye 
are  not  under  the  Law." 2 

If  it  be  asked  in  what  way  are  these  two  con- 
nected, I  answer,  closely  and  plainly ;  for  he 
that  hath  the  Spirit  as  he  ought,  quenches 
thereby  every  evil  desire,  and  he  that  is  released 
from  these  needs  no  help  from  the  Law,  but  is 
exalted  far  above  its  precepts.  He  who  is 
never  angry,  what  need  has  he  to  hear  the  com- 
mand, Thou  shalt  not  kill?  He  who  never 
casts  unchaste  looks,  what  need  hath  he  of  the 
admonition,  Thou  shalt  not  commit  adultery  ? 
Who  would  discourse  about  the  fruits  of  wick- 
edness with  him  who  had  plucked  up  the  root 
itself?  for  anger  is  the  root  of  murder,  and  of 
adultery  the  inquisitive  gazing  into  faces. 
Hence  he  says,  "  If  ye  are  led  by  the  Spirit,  ye 
are  not  under  the  Law;  "  wherein  he  appears 
to  me  to  have  pronounced  a  high  and  striking 
eulogy  of  the  Law,  if,  at  least,  the  Law  stood, 
according  to  its  power,  in  the  place  of  the  Spirit 
before  the  Spirit's  coming  upon  us.  But  we  are 
not  on  that  account  obliged  to  continue  apart 
with  our  schoolmaster.  Then  we  were  justly 
subject  to  the  Law,  that  by  fear  we  might 
chasten  our  lusts,  the  Spirit  not  being  mani- 
fested ;  but  now  that  grace  is  given,  which  not 
only  commands  us  to  abstain  from  them,  but 
both  quenches  them,  and  leads  us  to  a  higher 
rule  of  life,  what  more  need  is  there  of  the 
Law  ?     He  who  has  attained  an  exalted  excel- 


•  ["If  you  adopt  the  rule  of  the  Spirit,  you  thereby  renounce 
your  allegiance  to  the  Law.  In  this  passage  the  Spirit  is  doubly 
contrasted ;  first  with  the  flesh,  and  secondly,  with  the  Law,  both 
of  which  are  closely  allied." — Light  foot. — G.  A.] 


42                                          WORKS  OF  ST.  CHRYSOSTOM.                            [Chapter  V. 

lence  from  an  inner  impulse,  has  no  occasion  of  the  Spirit ?"  it  is  because  evil  works  origi- 

for  a  schoolmaster,  nor  does  any  one,  if  he  is  a  nate  in  ourselves  alone,  and  therefore  he  calls 

philosopher,  require  a  grammarian.     Why  then  them    "works,"   but  good  works  require  not 

do  ye  so  degrade  yourselves,  as  now  to  listen  to  only  our  diligence  but  God's  loving  kindness, 

the  Law,  having  previously  given  yourselves  to  He  places  first  the  root  of  these  good  things, 

the  Spirit  ?  and  then  proceeds  to  recount  them,  in  these 

Ver.  19,  20,  21.  "Now  the  works  of  the  words,  "Love,  joy,  peace,  long-suffering,  kind- 
flesh  are  manifest,1  which  are  these;  fornica-  ness,  goodness,  faithfulness,  meekness,  temper- 
tion,2  uncleanpess,  lasciviousness,  idolatry,  ance  ;  against  such  there  is  no  law."  For  who 
sorcery,  enmities,  strife,  jealousies,  wrath,  fac-  would  lay  any  command  on  him  who  hath  all 
tions,  divisions,  heiesies,  envyings,  drunken-  things  within  himself,  and  who  hath  love  for 
ness,  revellings,  and  such  like  :  of  the  which  I  the  finished  mistress  of  philosophy?  As  horses, 
forewarn  you  even  as  I  did  forewarn  you,  that  who  are  docile  and  do  every  thing  of  their  own 
they  which  practice  such  things  shall  not  inherit  accord,  need  not  the  lash,  so  neither  does  the 
the  kingdom  of  God."  soul,  which  by  the  Spirit  hath  attained  to  excel- 

Answer  me  now,  thou  that  accusest  thine  own  lence,  need  the  admonitions  of  the  Law.    Here 

flesh,  and  supposest  that  this  is  said  of  it  as  of  too  he  completely  and  strikingly  casts  out  the 

an  enemy  and  adversary.     Let  it  be  allowed  Law,  not  as  bad,  but  as  inferior  to  the  phil- 

that  adultery  and  fornication  proceed,  as  you  osophy  given  by  the  Spirit, 

assert,   from  the  flesh;    yet  hatred,  variance,  Ver.  24.  "  And  they  that  are  of  Christ  Jesus4 

emulations,    strife,    heresies,   and    witchcraft,  have  crucified  the  flesh  with  the  passions  and 

these    arise    merely   from    a    depraved   moral  the  lusts  thereof. " 

choice.     And  so  it  is  with  the  others  also,  for  That  they  might  not  object,  "And  who  is 

how  can  they  belong  to  the  flesh?  you  observe  such  a  man  as  this?"    he  points  out  by  their 

that  he  is  not  here  speaking  of  the  flesh,  but  of  works  those  who  have  attained  to  this  perfec- 

earthly  thoughts,  which  trail  upon  the  ground,  tion,  here  again  giving  the  name  of  the  "  flesh" 

Wherefore  also  he  alarms  them  by  saying,  that  to  evil  actions.     He  does  not  mean  that  they 

"they  which   practice  such  things  shall   not  had  destroyed  their  flesh,  otherwise  how  were 

inherit  the  kingdom  of  God."     If  these  things  they  going  to  live?  for  that  which  is  crucified 

belonged   to   nature  and   not  to  a  bad  moral  is  dead  and  inoperative,  but  he  indicates  the 

choice,  his  expression,  "they  practice,"  isinap-  perfect  rule  of  life.     For  the  desires,  although 

propriate,  it  should  be,  "they  suffer."     And  they  are  troublesome,  rage  in  vain.     Since  then 

why  should  they  be  cast  out  of  the  kingdom,  such  is  the  power  of  the  Spirit,  let  us  live  therein 

for  rewards  and  punishments  relate  not  to  what  and  be  content  therewith,  as  he  adds  himself, 

proceeds  from  nature  but  from  choice?  Ver.  25.    "If  we  live5  by  the  Spirit,  by  the 

Ver.  22.     "  But  the  fruit  of  the  Spirit  is  love,  Spirit  let  us  also  walk," 

joy,  peace."  — being  governed  by  His  laws.     For  this  is 

He  says  not,  "the  work  of  the  Spirit,"  but,  the  force  of  the  words  "let  us  walk,"  that  is, 

"the  fruit  of  the  Spirit."     Is  the  soul,  how-  let  us  be  content  with  the  power  of  the  Spirit, 

ever,  superfluous  ?   the   flesh  and  the  Spirit  are  and  seek  no  help  from  the  Law.     Then,  signi- 

mentioned,  but  where  is  the  soul?   is  he  dis-  fying  that  those  who  would   fain  have  intro- 

coursing  of  beings  without  a  soul  ?   for  if  the  duced  circumcision  were  actuated  by  ambitious 

things   of  the   flesh  be  evil,  and  those  of  the  motives,  he  says, 

Spirit  good,  the  soul  must  be  superfluous.  By  Ver.  26.  "  Let  us  not  be  vainglorious,"6 
no  means,  for  the  mastery  of  the  passions  be-  which  is  the  cause  of  all  evils,  ' '  provoking 7 
longs  to  her,  and  concerns  her;  and  being  one  another "  to  contentions  and  strife,  "envy- 
placed  amid  vice  and  virtue,  if  she  has  used  ing  one  another,"  for  from  vainglory  comes 
the  body  fitly,  she  has  wrought  it  to  be  spirit-  envy  and  from  envy  all  these  countless  evils, 
ual,  but  if  she  separate  from  the  Spirit  and  give   

herqplf   Tin    rn    pvil    Hp<;irp<;      shp>    mnkrc    hprcplf  development,  from  their  root,  the  Spirit."— Ellicott.     Sosubstan- 

nerseil    up    to    evil    aesires,     Sne    maKeS    nerseil  tial,y  fcightfoot   and  Schaff.      But   Meyer  demurs  and  says  no 

more  earthly.       YOU  Observe  throughout  that  his  marked   distinction  is  intended.     He  refers  it  to  Paul's  fondness 

discourse  does  not  relate  tO  the  Substance  Of  the  °«  ^Having  now^umeratld  the  distinctive  works  of  the  flesh  and 

flesh,  but  to  the  moral  choice,  which  is  oris  ,fruit of th<= LSpirit khc <T>'*' Now lf Jovt l,arJ: ch1st!? you havc •*c5id£d 

'..                  ajij          1                                  r  between  these,  the  Spirit   and  the  flesh,  and  have  crucified  the 
not  VICIOUS.       And  Why  does  he  Say,    "  the  frillt3  flesh,  with  its  passions  (passive)  and  lusts  (active).— C.  A.) 
*  [Therefore   if    having   crucified   the   flesh   we  are   dead  to  it 

1  f"  Would  you  ascertain  whether  you  arc  walking  by  the  Spirit  and   live  by  the  Spirit.  let  us  conform  our  conduct  to  our  new  life, 

or  the  flesh?     Then   apply  the  plain  practical  test."— Lightfoot.  let  us  also  walk  by  the  Spirit.— Lightfoot,  substantially.— G.  A.) 

— G.  AJ  °  [  "Paul  works  round  again  to  the  subject  of  ver.  15  and  repeats 

*  ["The  sins  here  mentioned  seem  to  fall  into  four  classes  :  (1)  his  warning.    It  is  clear  that  something  had  occurred  which  alarmed 

Sensual   sins;    fornication,  uncleanness,  lasciviousness;    (2)  Vn-  him  on  this  point." — Lightfoot.— G.  A.] 

lawful    dealings    in    things    spiritual ;     idolatry,     sorcery ';     (3)  *  [  •« '  Provoking '    (npoKaXovfityoi)  on   the  part   of  the  strong, 

Violations  of  brotherly   love;  enmities envyings;   (4)  'envying,*  (Affopouiret)   on   the   part   of  the  weak.     The   strong 

Excesses,  drunkenness  and  revellings." — Lightfoot. — G.  A.]  vauntingly  challenged  their  weaker  brethren;  the  weak  could  only 

'  I"  Used  apparently  with  a  significant  reference  to  the  organic  ictaliate  with  envy." — Ellicott. — G,  A.\ 


CHAPTER   VI 


VERSE  I. 


"Brethren,!  even  if  a  man  be  overtaken  in  any  trespass."2 

Forasmuch  as  under  cover  of  a  rebuke  they 
gratified  their  private  feelings,  and  professing  to 
do  so  for  faults  which  had  been  committed, 
were  advancing  their  own  ambition,  he  says, 
"Brethren,  if  a  man  be  overtaken.' '  He  said 
not  if  a  man  commit  but  if  he  be  "  overtaken  " 
that  is,  if  he  be  carried  away.8 

"  Ye  which  are  spiritual  *  restore  such  a  one," 

He  says  not  "  chastise"  nor  "judge,"  but 
"set  right."  Nor  does  he  stop  here,  but  in 
order  to  show  that  it  behoved  them  to  be  very 
gentle  towards  those  who  had  lost  their  footing, 
he  subjoins, 

"In  a  spirit  of  meekness." 

He  says  not,  "in  meekness,"  but,  "  in  a 
spirit  of  meekness,"  signifying  thereby  that  this 
is  acceptable  to  the  Spirit,  and  that  to  be  able 
to  administer  correction  with  mildness  is  a 
spiritual  gift.  Then,  to  prevent  the  one  being 
unduly  exalted  by  having  to  correct  the  other, 
puts  him  under  the  same  fear,  saying, 

"Looking  to  thyself,  lest  thou  also  be 
tempted." 

For  as  rich  men  convey  contributions  to  the 
indigent,  that  in  case  they  should  be  themselves 
involved  in  poverty  they  may  receive  the  same 
bounty,  so  ought  we  also  to  do.  And  therefore  he 
states  this  cogent  reason,  in  these  words,  "  look- 
ing to  thyself,  lest  thou  also  be  tempted."  He 
apologizes  for  the  offender,  first,  by  saying  "if 
ye  be  overtaken;  "  next,  by  employing  a  term 
indicative  of  great  infirmity5;  lastly,  by  the 
words  "  lest  thou  also  be  tempted,"  thus  arra- 
igning the  malice  of  the  devil  rather  than  the 
remissness  of  the  soul. 
Ver.  2.  "Bear  ye  one  another's  burdens." 


1  l"I  have  just  charged  you  to  shun  provocation  and  envy.  I 
now  ask  you  to  do  more — to  be  gentle  even  to  those  whose  guilt  is 
flagrant."— Lightfoot.—G.  A.] 

rJLv  n*i  wa.pairnati.aTi,  "  in  a  false  step  or  slip,"  ommitted,  in  the 
too  yet  commented  on. 

1  [  Meyer  holds  the  same  view  of  this  wnrd  (wpokrm4>6j))  and 
sayy  "  If  he  be  overtaken,"  means  if  the  sin  has  reached  him  more 
rapidly  than  he  could  flee  from  it.  Ellicott,  however,  says  this  view 
of  the  wp6  would  tend  to  excuse  and  qualify,  whereas  kox  seems 
to  point  to  an  aggravation  of  the  offense.  The  meaning  then  is 
"to  caught  before  he  could  escape." — So  Light  foot  but  not  Schaff. 
— 0.  A.) 

*["Paul  leaves  it  with  every  reader  to  regard  himself  included 


It  being  impossible  for  man  to  be  without 
failings,  he  exhorts  them  not  to  scrutinize 
severely  the  offences  of  others,  but  even  to  bear 
their  failings,  that  their  own  may  in  turn  be 
borne  by  others.  As,  in  the  building  of  a  house, 
all  the  stones  hold  not  the  same  position,  but 
one  is  fitted  for  a  corner  but  not  for  the  founda- 
tions, another  for  the  foundations,  and  not  for 
the  corner,  so  too  is  it  in  the  body  of  the  Church. 
The  same  thing  holds  in  the  frame  of  our  own 
flesh  ;  notwithstanding  which,  the  one  member 
bears  with  the  other,  and  we  do  not  require 
every  thing  from  each,  but  what  each  contri- 
butes in  common  constitutes  both  the  body  and 
the  building. 

Ver.  2.  "  And  so  fulfil  the  law  of  Christ." 
He  says  not  "  fulfil,"  but,  "complete6  ;"  that 
is,  make  it  up  all  of  you  in  common,7  by  the 
things  wherein  ye  bear  with  one  another.  For 
example,  this  man  is  irascible,  thou  art  dull- 
tempered  ;  bear  therefore  with  his  vehemence 
that  he  in  turn  may  bear  with  thy  sluggishness ; 
and  thus  neither  will  he  transgress,  being  sup- 
ported by  thee,  nor  wilt  thou  offend  in  the  points 
where  thy  defects  lie,  because  of  thy  brother's 
forbearing  with  thee.  So  do  ye  by  reaching 
forth  a  hand  one  to  another  when  about  to  fall, 
fulfil  the  Law  in  common,  each  completing  what 
is  wanting  in  his  neighbor  by  his  own  endurance. 
But  if  ye  do  not  thus,  but  each  of  you  will  in- 
vestigate the  faults  of  his  neighbor,  nothing  will 
ever  be  performed  by  you  as  it  ought.  For  as 
in  the  case  of  the  body,  if  one  were  to  exact 
the  same  function  from  every  member  of  it,  the 
body  could  never  consist,  so  must  there  be  great 
strife  among  brethren  if  we  were  to  require  all 
things  from  all. 

Ver.  3.  "  For  if  a  man  thinketh  himself  to  be 
something,  when  he  is  nothing,  he  deceiveth 
himself." 


orBot.'— Meyer.— G.  A.] 
*  Vit,  in  a  false  step,  c 


«y  nvt  napaimotiaTf 


•Not  irArjpoKraTe,  but  dyawk^puxrar*. 

*  f"  This  explanation  of  Chrysostom  is  not  satisfactory, 
word  in  all  cases  appears  to  denote  a  complete  filling  up,"- 
cott. 

"  By  lending  a  hand  to  bear  your  neighbor's  burden, 
fulfil  the  most  perfect  of  all  laws — the  law  of  Christ.    ~ 

3)  any  one  asserts  his  superiorly,  if  any  one  exalts  hit 
others,  he  is  nothing  worth  and  is  a  vain  self-deceiver. 

4)  rather  let  each  man  test    his  own  work  {epyov  being 
phatic  position)  and  then  his  boast  will  be  nis  o*vn  and  n< 
on  comparison  with  others," — Light  foot.  — G.  A.] 

(43) 


The 


44 


WORKS  OF  ST.  CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Chapter  VL 


Here  again  he  reflects  on  their  arrogance. 
He  that  thinks  himself  to  be  something  is  noth- 
ing, and  exhibits  at  the  outset  a  proof  of  his 
worthlessness  by  such  a  disposition. 

Ver.  4.  "  But  let  each  man  prove  his  own 
work." 

Here  he  shows  that  we  ought  to  be  scrutiniz- 
ers  of  our  lives,  and  this  not  lightly,  but  care- 
fully to  weigh  our  actions ;  as  for  example,  if  thou 
hast  performed  a  good  deed,  consider  whether 
it  was  not  from  vain  glory,  or  through  necessity, 
or  malevolence,  or  with  hypocrisy,  or  from  some 
other  human  motive.  For  as  gold  appears  to  be 
bright  before  it  is  placed  in  the  furnace,  but 
when  committed  to  the  fire,  is  closely  proved, 
and  all  that  is  spurious  is  separated  from  what 
is  genuine,  so  too  our  works,  if  closely  examined, 
will  be  distinctly  made  manifest,  and  we 
shall  perceive  that  we  have  exposed  ourselves  to 
much  censure. 

Ver.  4.  ' '  And  then  shall  he  have  his  glory- 
ing in  regard  of  himself  alone  and  not  of  his 
neighbor.' ' 

This  he  says,  not  as  laying  down  a  rule,  but 
in  the  way  of  concession ;  and  his  meaning  is 
this,1 — Boasting  is  senseless,  but  if  thou  wilt 
boast,  boast  not  against  thy  neighbor,  as  the 
Pharisee  did.  For  he  that  is  so  instructed  will 
speedily  give  up  boasting  altogether ;  and  there- 
fore he  concedes  a  part  that  he  may  gradually 
extirpate  the  whole.  He  that  is  wont  to  boast 
with  reference  to  himself  only,  and  not  against 
others,  will  soon  reform  this  failing  also.  For 
he  that  does  not  consider  himself  better  than 
others,  for  this  is  the  meaning  of  "  not  in  re- 
gard of  his  neighbor,  but  becomes  elated  by  exam- 
ining himself  by  himself,  will  afterwards  cease 
to  be  so.  And  that  you  may  be  sure  this  is  what 
he  desires  to  establish,  observe  how  he  checks 
him  by  fear,  saying  above,  "  let  every  man  prove 
his  own  work,"  and  adding  here, 

Ver.  5.  "  For  each  man  shall  bear  his  own 
burden." 

He  appears  to  state  a  reason  prohibitory  of 
boasting  against  another ;  but  at  the  same  time 
he  corrects  the  boaster,  to  that  he  may  no  more 
entertain  high-  thoughts  of  himself  by  bringing 
to  his  remembrance  his  own  errors,  and  press- 
ing upon  his  conscience  the  idea  of  a  burden, 
and  of  being  heavily  laden.2 

Ver.  6.  ' '  But  let  him  that  is  taught  in  the 
word  communicate  unto  him  that  teacheth  in  all 
good  things." 

Here   he   proceeds   to   discourse  concerning 

1  [*•  If  any  one  wishes  to  find  matter  for  boasting,  let  it  |be  truly 
searched  for  in  his  own  actions  and  not  derived  from  a  contrast  of 
his  own  fancied  virtues  with  the  faults  of  others." — Ellicott. — G.A.j 

*  [Ellicott  says,  "  The  qualitative  and  humbling  distinction  of 
Chrysostom  does  not  appear  natural  or  probable,  nor  docs  it  refer  ! 
to  that  which  will  take  place  in  every  man  after  the  examination  I 
(Meyer);  but  is  apparently  used  ethically  in  reference  to  what  ac-  J 
cording  to  the  nature  of  things  must  be  the  case."— G.  A.]  j 


Teachers,  to  the  effect  that  they  ought  to  be 
tended  with  great  assiduity  by  their  disciples. 
Now  what  is  the  reason  that  Christ  so  command- 
ed ?  For  this  law,  "that  they  which  preach 
the  Gospel  should  live  of  the  Gospel,"  (i  Cor. 
ix:  14.)  is  laid  down  in  the  New  Testament; 
and  likewise  in  the  Old,  (Num.  xxxi :  47  ;  xxxv ; 
1-8.)  many  revenues  accrued  to  the  Levites  from 
the  people ;  what  is  the  reason,  I  say,  that  He 
so  ordained  ?  Was  it  not  for  the  sake  of  laying  a 
foundation  beforehand  of  lowliness  and  love? 
For  inasmuch  as  the  dignity  of  a  teacher  often- 
times elates  him  who  possesses  it,  He,  in  order 
to  repress  his  spirit,  hath  imposed  on  him  the 
necessity  of  requiring  aid  at  the  hands  of  his 
disciples.  And  to  these  in  turn  he  hath  given* 
means  of  cultivating  kindly  feelings,  by  training 
them,  through  the  kindness  required  of  them  to 
their  Teacher,  in  gentleness  towards  others  also. 
By  this  means  no  slight  affection  is  generated 
on  both  sides.  Were  not  the  cause  of  this  what 
I  have  stated  it  to  be,  why  should  He,  who  fed 
the  dull-minded  Jews  with  manna,  have  reduced 
the  Apostles  to  the  necessity  of  asking  for  aid  ? 
Is  it  not  manifest  He  aimed  at  the  great  benefits 
of  humility  and  love,  and  that  those  who  were 
under  teaching  might  not  be  ashamed  of  Teach- 
ers who  were  in  appearance  despicable?  To 
ask  for  aid  bears  the  semblance  of  disgrace,  but 
it  ceased  to  be  so,  when  their  Teachers  with  all 
boldness  urged  their  claim,  so  that  their  disci- 
ples derived  from  hence  no  small  benefit,  taught 
hereby  to  despise  all  appearances.  Wherefore 
he  says,  "  But 4  let  him  that  is  taught  in  the  word 
communicate  unto  him  that  teacheth  in  all  good  , 
things,"  that  is,  let  him  show  to  him  all  gener- 
osity; this  he  implies  by  the  words,  "in  all 
good  things."  Let  the  disciple,  says  he,  keep 
nothing  to  himself,  but  have  everything  in  com- 
mon, for  what  he  receives  is  better  than  what  he 
gives, — as  much  better  as  heavenly  are  better 
than  earthly  things.  This  he  expresses  in  an- 
other place,  "If  we  sowed  unto  you  spiritual  things, 
is  it  a  great  matter  if  we  shall  reap  your  carnal 
things  ?  "  (i Cor.  ix:  11.)  Wherefore  he  gives  the 
procedure  the  name  of  a  "communication," 
showing  that  an  interchange  takes  place.  Here- 
by too  love  is  greatly  fostered  and  confirmed. 
If  the  teacher  asks  merely  for  competency,  he 
does  not  by  receiving  it  derogate  from  his  own 
dignity.     For  this  is  praiseworthy,  so   assidu- 

•  [Those  philosophers  among  the  Greeks  who  received  pay  from 
their  pupils  were  looked  down  upon,  and  called  Sophists,  vid.  Xen. 
Mem.  1.  6.  §.  13. 

4  [Different  views  are  held  as  to  the  connection  of  this  with  the 
preceding.  Light  foot  says  the  connection  is  this  ;  ."I  spoke  of  bear- 
ing one  another's  burdens.  There  is  one  special  application  I 
would  make  of  this  rule  ;  provide  for  the  wants  of  your  teachers. 
Ac  arrests  a  former  topic  before  it  passes  out  of  sight,"  (Compare  4: 
20.)  But  Ellicott  takes  a  different  view  and  says  :  "The  duty  of 
sharing  their  temporal  blessings  with  their  teachers  is  placed  in  con- 
trast with  the  foregoing  declaration  of  individual  responsibility  in 
spiritual  matters."  So  also  Meyer  who,  however,  refers  it  to  moral 
good. — G.  A.] 


Chapter  VI.] 


COMMENTARY  ON  GALATIANS. 


45 


ously  to  apply  to  the  Word,  as  to  require  the 
aid  of  others,  and  to  be  in  manifold  poverty, 
and  to  be  regardless  of  all  the  means  of  subsis- 
tence. But  if  he  exceed  the  due  measure,  he 
injures  his  dignity,  not  by  mere  receiving,  but 
by  receiving  too  much.  Then,  lest  the  vice  of 
the  Teacher  should  render  the  disciple  more  re- 
miss in  this  matter,  and  he  should  frequently 
pass  him  by,  though  poor,  on  account  of  his 
conduct,  he  proceeds  to  say, 

Ver.  9.   ' '  And  let  us  not  be  weary  in  well 
doing."1 

And  here  he  points  out  the  difference  between 
ambition  of  this  kind,  and  in  temporal  affairs, 
by  saying,  "Be  not  deceived2;  God  is  not 
mocked ;  for  whatsoever  a  man  so  wet  h,  that  shall 
he  also  reap.  For  he  that  soweth  unto  his  own 
flesh  shall  of  the  flesh  reap  corruption ;  but  he  that 
soweth  unto  the  Spirit  shall  of  the  Spirit  reap  eter- 
nal life."  As  in  the  case  of  seeds,  one  who  sows 
pulse  cannot  reap  corn,  for  what  is  sown  and 
what  is  reaped  must  both  be  of  one  kind,  so  is  it  in 
actions,  he  that  plants  in  the  flesh,  wantonness, 
drunkenness,  or  inordinate  desire,  shall  reap  the 
fruits  of  these  things.  And  what  are  these 
fruits?  Punishment,  retribution,  shame,  deris- 
ion, destruction.  For  of  sumptuous  tables  and 
viands  the  end  is  no  other  than  destruction ;  for 
they  both  perish  themselves,  and  destroy  the 
body  too.  But  the  fruit  of  the  Spirit  is  of  a 
nature  not  similar  but  contrary  in  all  respects  to 
these.  For  consider  ;  hast  thou  sown  alms-giv- 
ing ?  the  treasures  of  heaven  and  eternal  glory 
await  thee :  hast  thou  sown  temperance  ?  honor 
and  reward,  and  the  applause  of  Angels,  and  a 
crown  from  the  Judge  await  thee. 

Ver.  9,  10.  "And  let  us  not  be  weary  in 
well-doing ;  for  in  due  season  we  shall  reap,  if 
we  faint  not.  So  then  as  we  have  opportunity, 
let  us  work  that  which  is  good  toward  all  men, 
especially  toward  them  that  are  of  the  household 
of  faith." 

Lest  any  one  should  suppose  that  their  Teach- 
ers were  to  be  cared  for  and  supported,  but  that 
others  might  be  neglected,  he  makes  his  dis- 
course general,  and  opens  the  door  of  this  chari- 
table zeal  to  all ;  nay,  he  carries  it  to  such  a 
height,  as  to  command  us  to  show  mercy  both 
to  Jews  and  Greeks,  in  the  proper  gradation 
indeed,  but  still  to  show  mercy.  And  what  is 
this  gradation  ?  it  consists  in  bestowing  greater 
care  upon  the  faithful.     His  endeavor  here  is 

1  [Dislocated  by  Chrysostom.  This  is  a  part  of  verse  9,  and  is  an 
encouragement  not  to  become  weary  in  below  sowing  to  the  Spirit. — 
Meyer.— G.  A.] 

*  [Meyer,  understanding  "all  good  things"  to  mean  every  thing 
thai  is  morally  good,  says,  that  this  is  a  warning  to  the  readers,  in 
nspeet  to  this  necessary  moral  fellowship  not  to  allow  themselves 
fc>  he  led  astray  (by  the  teachers  of  error  or  otherwise) .  Lightfoot 
and  Schaff  refer  this  warning  to  the  consequences  of  failure  to  share 
then  temporal  blessings  with  their  teachers.  Elliott  says,  "  Verse 
7  i-<  a  continuation  of  the  subject  in  a  more  general  and  extended 
way  but  not  without  reference  to  the  special  command  which  im- 
mediately precedes."— G.  A.] 


the  same  as  in  his  other  Epistles ;  he  discourses 
not  merely  of  showing  mercy,  but  of  doing  it 
with  zeal  and  perseverance,  for  the  expressions 
of  " sowing' '  and  of  "not  fainting"  imply 
this.  Then,  having  exacted  a  great  work,  he 
places  its  reward  close  at  hand,  and  makes  men- 
tion of  a  new  and  wondrous  harvest.  Among 
husbandmen,  not  only  the  sower  but  also  the 
reaper  endures  much  labor,  having  to  struggle 
with  drought  and  dust  and  grievous  toil,  but  in 
this  case  none  of  these  exist,  as  he  shows  by  the 
words,  "  for  in  due  season  we  shall  reap,  if  we 
faint  not."  By  this  means  he  stimulates  and 
draws  them  on ;  and  he  also  urges  and  presses 
them  forward  by  another  motive,  saying,  "  As 
we  have  therefore  opportunity,  let  us  do  good." 
As  it  is  not  always  in  our  power  to  sow,  so 
neither  is  it  to  show  mercy ;  for  when  we  have 
been  carried  hence,  though  we  may  desire  it  a 
thousand  times,  we  shall  be  able  to  effect  noth- 
ing more.  To  this  argument  of  ours  the  Ten 
Virgins  (Mat.  xxv:  iff)  bear  witness,  who 
although  they  wished  it  a  thousand  times,  yet 
were  shut  out  from  the  bridegroom,  because  they 
brought  with  them  no  bountiful  charity.  And 
so  does  the  rich  man  who  neglected  Lazarus 
(Luke  xvi  :  19.)  for  he,  being  destitute  of  this 
succor,  although  he  wept  and  made  many 
entreaties,  won  no  compassion  from  the  Patri- 
arch, or  any  one  else,  but  continued  destitute  of 
all  forgiveness,  and  tormented  with  perpetual 
fire.  Therefore  he  says,  "  as  we  have  opportu- 
nity, let  us  work  that  which  is  good  toward  all 
men,"  hereby  especially  also  setting  them  free 
from  the  narrow-mindedness  of  the  Jews.  For 
the  whole  of  their  benevolence  was  confined  to 
their  own  race,  but  the  rule  of  life  which  Grace 
gives  invites  both  land  and  sea  to  the  board  of 
charity,  only  it  shows  a  greater  care  for  its  own 
household. 

Ver.  11,  12.  "  See  with  how  large  letters  I 
have  written  unto  you  with  mine  own  hand. 
As  many  as  desire  to  make  a  fair  show  in  the 
flesh,  they  compel  you  to  be  circumcised." 

Observe  what  grief  posesses  his  blessed  soul. 
As  those  who  are  oppressed  with  some  sorrow, 
who  have  lost  one  of  their  own  kindred,  and 
suffered  an  unexpected  calamity,  rest  neither  by 
night  nor  day,  because  their  grief  besieges  their 
soul,  so  the  blessed  Paul,  after  a  short  moral  dis- 
course, returns  again  to  that  former  subject 
which  chiefly  disturbed  his  mind,  saying  as  fol- 
lows :  "  see  with  how  large  letters  I  have  written 
unto  you  with  mine  own  hand."  By  this  he 
signifies  that  he  had  written  the  whole  letter3 


*  [Elliott  hesitatingly  adopts  this  view  also.   So  Alford 
die   (in   Lange).     But    Meyer,  Schaff.    Schmoller   fin 
Lightfoot  say  that  iypa^a  (Philem  19)  is  the  epistolary 
marks  the  point  at  which  Paul  takes  the  pen  from  the  ai 
and  that  only  this  concluding  paragraph  was  written  with 
hand.     So  the  American  Committee  also  in  the  Rev.  Ver.' 


46 


WORKS  OF  ST.  CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Chapter  VL 


himself,  which  was  a  proof  of  great  sincerity. 
In  his  other  Epistles  he  himself  only  dictated, 
another  wrote,  as  is  plain  from  the  Epistle  to 
the  Romans,  for  at  its  close  it  is  said,  "  I  Ter- 
tius,  who  write  the  Epistle,  salute  you  ;  "  (Rom. 
xvi :  22.)  but  in  this  instance  he  wrote  the 
whole  himself.  And  this  he  did  by  necessity, 
not  from  affection  merely,  but  in  order  to  remove 
an  injurious  suspicion.  Being  charged  with 
acts  wherein  he  had  no  part,  and  being  reported 
to  preach  Circumcision  yet  to  pretend  to  preach 
it  not,  he  was  compelled  to  write  the  Epistle 
with  his  own  hand,  thus  laying  up  beforehand  a 
written  testimony.  By  the  expression  "what 
sized,"  he  appears  to  me  to  signify,  not  the 
magnitude,  but,  the  misshapen  appearance1  of 
the  letters,  as  if  he  had  said,  "Although  not  well 
skilled  in  writing,  I  have  been  compelled  to 
write  with  my  own  hand  to  stop  the  mouth  of 
these  traducers." 

Ver.  12,  13.  "As  many  as  desire  to  make  a 
fair  show  in  the  flesh,  they  compel  you  to  be  cir- 
cumcised ;  only  that  they  may  not  be  persecuted 
for  the  cross  of  Christ.  For  not  even  they  who 
receive  circumcision  do  themselves  keep  the 
Law ;  but  they  desire  to  have  you  circumcised, 
that  they  may  glory  in  your  flesh/ ' 

Here  he  shows  that  they  suffered  this,  not 
willingly  but  of  necessity,  and  affords  them  an 
opportunity  of  retreat,  almost  speaking  in  their 
defence,  and  exhorting  them  to  abandon  their 
teachers  with  all  speed.  What  is  the  meaning 
of  "to  make  a  fair  show  in  the  flesh ?"  it 
means,  to  be  esteemed  by  men.  As  they  were 
reviled  by  the  Jews  for  deserting  the  customs  of 
their  fathers,  they  desire,  says  he,  to  injure  you, 
that  they  may  not  have  this  charged  against 
them,  but  vindicate  themselves  by  means  of 
your  flesh.2  His  object  here  is  to  show  that 
they  did  not  so  act  from  respect  to  God  ;  it  is 
as  if  he  said,  This  procedure  is  not  founded  in 
piety,  all  this  is  done  through  human  ambition  ; 
in  order  that  the  unbelievers  may  be  gratified  by 
the  mutilation  of  the  faithful,  they  choose  to 
offend  God  that  they  may  please  men ;  for  this 
is  the  meaning  of,  "  to  make  a  fair  show  in  the 
flesh."  Then,  as  a  proof  that  for  another  reason 
too  they  are  unpardonable,  he  again  convinces 
them  that,  not  only  in  order  to  please  others, 
but  for  their  own  vain  glory;  s  they  had  enjoined 

1  [ "  The  word  u«ed,  imjAikoi?,  denotes  size  not  irregularity.  Nor 
is  it  probable  that  Paul  who  was  educated  at  Jerusalem  and  Tarsus, 
the  great  centre  of  Jewish  and  Greek  learning,  was  ignorant  and 
unskillful  in  writing  Greek.  The  boldness  of  the  handwriting 
answers  to  the  force  of  the  Apostle's  convictions." — Light  foot. — 
G.  A] 

'["Certain  men  have  an  'object'  in  displaying  their  real 
for  carnal  ordinances.  They  hope  thereby  to  save  themselves  from 
persecution  for  professing  the  cross  of  Christ." — Lightfoot. — G. 
AJ 

'["They  advocate  circumcision  and  yet  they  themselves  neglect 
the  ordinances  of  the  Law.  They  could  not  face  the  obloquy  to 
which  their  abandonment  of  the  Mosaic  I^aw  would  expose  them. 
So  they  tried  to  keep  on  good  terms  with  their  unconverted  fellow- 
Jews  by  imposing  circumcision  on  the  Gentile  converts  also  thus 
getting  the  credit  of  real  for  the  law." — Lightfoot. — G.  A.] 


this.  Wherefore  he  adds,  "  that  they  may  glory 
in  your  flesh,"  as  if  they  had  disciples,  and  were 
teachers.  And  what  is  the  proof  of  this?  "  For 
not  even  they  themselves,"  he  says,  "keep  the 
Law;"  even  if  they  did  keep  it,  they  would 
incur  grave  censure,  but  now  their  very  purpose 
is  corrupt. 

Ver.  14.  "  But  far  be  it  from  me  to  glory, 
save  in  the  cross  of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ." 

Truly  this  symbol  is  thought  despicable ;  but  it 
is  so  in  the  world's  reckoning,  and  among  men ; 
in  Heaven  and  among  the  faithful  it  is  the  high- 
est glory.  Poverty  too  is  despicable,  but  it  is 
our  boast ;  and  to  be  cheaply  thought  of  by  the 
public  is  a  matter  of  laughter  to  them,  but  we 
are  elated  by  it.  So.too  is  the  Cross  our  boast. 
He  does  not  say,  "  I  boast  not,"  nor,  "  I  will 
not  boast,"  but,  "Far  be  it  from  me  that  I 
should,"  as  if  he  abominated  it  as  absurd,  and 
invoked  the  aid  of  God  in  order  to  his  success 
therein.  And  what  is  the  boast  of  the  Cross? 
That  Christ  for  my  sake  took  on  Him  the  form 
of  a  slave,  and  bore  His  sufferings  for  me  the 
slave,  the  enemy,  the  unfeeling  one  ;  yea  He  so 
loved  me  as  to  give  Himself  up  to  a  curse  for 
me.  What  can  be  comparable  to  this  !  If  ser- 
vants who  only  receive  praise  from  their  masters, 
to  whom  they  are  akin  by  nature,  are  elated 
thereby,  how  must  we  not  boast  when  the  Mas- 
ter who  is  very  God  is  not  ashamed  of  the  Cross 
which  was  endured  for  us.  Let  us  then  not  be 
ashamed  of  His  unspeakable  tenderness ;  He 
was  not  ashamed  of  being  crucified  for  thy  sake, 
and  wilt  thou  be  ashamed  to  confess  His  infinite 
solicitude  ?  It  is  as  if  a  prisoner  who  had  not 
been  ashamed  of  his  King,  should,  after  that 
King  had  come  to  the  prison  and  himself  loosed 
the  chains,  become  ashamed  of  him  on  that  ac- 
count. Yet  this  would  be  the  height  of  mad- 
ness, for  this  very  fact  would  be  an  especial 
ground  for  boasting. 

Ver.  14.  "  Through  which  the  world  hath 
been  crucified  unto  me,  and  I  unto  the  world."4 

What  he  here  calls  the  world  is  not  the  heav- 
en nor  the  earth,  but  the  affairs  of  life,  the 
praise  of  men,  retinues,  glory,  wealth,  and  all 
such  things  as  have  a  show  of  splendor.  To 
me  these  things  are  dead.  Such  an  one  it  be- 
hooves a  Christian  to  be,  and  always  to  use  this 
language.  Nor  was  he  content  with  the  former 
putting  to  death,  but  added  another,  saying, 
"and  I  unto  the  world,"  thus  implying  a  double 
putting  to  death,  and  saying,  They  are  dead  to 
me,  and  I  to  them,  neither  can  they  captivate 
and  overcome  me,  for  they  are  dead  once  for  all, 

4  ["  For  myself,  on  the  other  hand,  far  be  it  from  me,  etc.:  By 
way  of  contrast  to  the  boasting  of  the  pseudo-apostles,  Paul  now 
presents  his  own  ground  of  boasting,  namely,  the  crucifixion  of 
Christ,  by  whose  crucifixion  is  produced  the  result  that  no  fellow- 
ship of  life  longer  exists  between  him  and  the  world  :  it  is  dead 
for  him  and  he  is  dead  for  it."— Meyer.—  A  iter  pro  tnortuo  kabet 
!  alterum.  (Schott.)— G.  A.J 


Chapter  VL] 


COMMENTARY  ON  GALATIANS. 


47 


nor  can  I  desire  them,  for  I  too  am  dead  to 
them.  Nothing  can  be  more  blessed  than  this 
putting  to  death,  for  it  is  the  foundation  of  the 
blessed  life. 

Ver.  15,  16.  "For  neither  is  circumcision 
any  thing,  nor  uncircumcision,  but  a  new  crea- 
ture. And  as  many  as  shall  walk  by  this  rule, 
peace  be  upon  them,  and  mercy,  and  upon  the 
Israel  of  God." 

Observe  the  power  of  the  Cross,  to  what  a 
pitch  it  hath  raised  him !  not  only  hath  it  put 
to  death  for  him  all  mundane  affairs,  but  hath  set 
him  far  above  the  Old  Dispensation.  What  can 
be  comparable  to  this  power  ?  for  the  Cross  hath 
persuaded  him,  who  was  willing  to  be  slain  and  to 
slay  others  for  the  sake  of  circumcision,  to  leave 
it  on  a  level  with  uncircumcision,  and  to  seek 
for  things  strange  and  marvellous  and  above  the 
heavens.  This  our  rule  of  life  he  calls  "  a  new 
creature,"  both  on  account  of  what  is  past, 
and  of  what  is  to  come ;  of  what  is  past,  be- 
cause our  soul,  which  had  grown  old  with  the 
oldness  of  sin,  hath  been  all  at  once  renewed  by 
baptism,  as  if  it  had  been  created  again.1 
Wherefore  we  require  a  new  and  heavenly  rule 
of  life.  And  of  things  to  come,  because  both 
the  heaven  and  the  earth,  and  all  the  creation, 
shall  with  our  bodies  be  translated  into  incor- 
ruption.  Tell  me  not  then,  he  says,  of  circum- 
cision, which  now  availeth  nothing  ;  (for  how 
shall  it  appear,  when  all  things  have  undergone 
such  a  change?)  but  seek  the  new  things  of 
grace.  For  they  who  pursue  these  things  shall 
enjoy  peace  and  amity,  and  may  properly  be 
called  by  the  name  of  "  Israel."  While  they  who 
hold  contrary  sentiments,  although  they  be  de- 
scended from  him  (Israel)  and  bear  his  appel- 
lation, have  yet  fallen  away  from  all  these  things, 
both  the  relationship  and  the  name  itself.  But 
it  is  in  their  power  to  be  true  Israelites,  who 
keep  this  rule,  who  desist  from  the  old  ways, 
and  follow  after  grace. 

Ver.  17.  "From  henceforth  let  no  man 
trouble  me." 

This  he  says  not  as  though  he  were  wearied 
or  overpowered  ;  he  who  chose  to  do  and  suffer 
all  for  his  disciples'  sake ;  he  who  said,  "  Be 
instant  in'  season,  out  of  season;  "  (2  Tim.  iv  : 
2.)  he  who  said,  "  If  peradventure  God  may 
give  them  repentance  unto  the  knowledge  of  the 
truth,  and  they  may  recover  themselves  out  of  the 
snare  of  the  devil ;  "  (2  Tim.  ii :  25,  26.)  how 
shall  he  now  become  relaxed  and  fall  back? 
Wherefore  does  he  say  this?  it  is  to  gird  up 
their  slothful  mind,  and  to  impress  them  with 
deeper  fear,  and  to  ratify  the  laws  enacted  by 


1  ("It  it  a  matter  of  indifference  whether  one  is  circumcised  or 
tmctrcamcised ;  and  the  only  matter  of  importance  is  that  one 
■hould  be  created  anew,  transferred  into  a  new  spiritual  condition 
of  life'-Meyer.— G.  A.] 


himself,  and  to  restrain  their  perpetual  fluctua- 
tions.2 

Ver.  17.  "For  I  bear  branded  on  my  body 
the  marks  of  Jesus." 

He  says  not,  "I  have,"  but,  "  I  bear,"  like 
a  man  priding  himself  on  trophies  and  royal  en- 
signs. Although  on  a  second  thought  it  seems 
a  disgrace,  yet  does  this  man  vaunt  of  his 
wounds,  and  like  military  standard-bearers,  so 
does  he  exult  in  bearing  about  these  wounds. 
And  why  does  he  say  this?  "  More  clearly  by 
those  wounds  than  by  any  argument,  than  by 
any  language,  do  I  vindicate  myself,"  says  he. 
For  these  wounds  utter  a  voice  louder  than  a 
trumpet  against  my  opponents,  and  against  those 
who  say  that  I  play  the  hypocrite  in  my  teaching, 
and  speak  what  may  please  men.  For  no  one 
who  saw  a  soldier  retiring  from  the  battle  bathed 
in  blood  and  with  a  thousand  wounds,  would 
dare  to  accuse  him  of  cowardice  and  treachery, 
seeing  that  he  bears  on  his  body  the  proofs  of 
his  valor,  and  so  ought  ye,  he  says,  to  judge  of 
me.  And  if  any  one  desire  to  hear  my  de- 
fence, and  to  learn  my  sentiments,  let  him  con- 
sider my  wounds,  which  afford  a  stronger  proof 
than  these  words  and  letters.  At  the  outset  of 
his  Epistle  he  evinced  his  sincerity  by  the  sud- 
denness of  his  conversion,  at  its  close  he  proves 
it  by  the  perils  which  attended  his  conversion. 
That  it  might  not  be  objected  that  he  had 
changed  his  course  with  upright  intentions, 
but  that  he  had  not  continued  in  the  same  pur- 
pose, he  produces  his  trials,  his  dangers,  his 
stripes  as  witnesses  that  he  had  so  continued. 

Then  having  clearly  justified  himself  in  every 
particular,  and  proved  that  he  had  spoken  noth- 
ing from  anger  or  malevolence,  but  had  pre- 
served his  affection  towards  them  unimpaired, 
he  again  establishes  this  same  point  by  conclud- 
ing his  discourse  with  a  prayer  teeming  with  a 
thousand  blessings,  in  these  words ; 

Ver.  18.  "The  grace  of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ 
be  with  your  spirit,  brethren.     Amen."  , 

By  this  last  word  he  hath  sealed  all  that  pre- 
ceded it.  He  says  not  merely,  "  with  you,"  as 
elsewhere,  but,  "with  your  spirit,"  thus  with- 
drawing them  from  carnal8  things,  and  display- 
ing throughout  the  beneficence  of  God,  and  re- 
minding them  of  the  grace  which  they  enjoyed, 
whereby  he  was  able  to  recall  them  from  all 
their  judaizing  errors.  For  to  have  received  the 
Spirit  came  not  of  the  poverty  of  the  Law,  but 
of  the  righteousness  which  is  by  Faith,  and  to 

*  ["  Light  foot  similarly,  but  more  clearly  ;  "  Paul  closes  the 
epistle  as  he  began  it,  with  an  uncompromising  assertion  of  his 
authority:  Henceforth  let  no  man  question  my  authority  ;  let  no 
man  thwart  or  annoy  me.  Jesus  is  my  Master  and  his  brand  is 
stamped  on  my  body.  I  bear  this  badge  of  an  honorable  servi- 
tude."— G.  A.] 

a  fSo  also  Lightfoot,  who  says,  "  with  your  spirit "  is  probably  in 
reference  to  the  carnal  religion  of  the  Cialatians,  but  this  cannot  be 
pressed  because  the  same   form  of  benediction  occurs  in  Philem, 
25:2  Tim.  iv ;  22.     Meyer  denies  there  is  any  such  allusion  at  ail 
G.  A.] 


48 


WORKS  OF  ST.  CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Chapter  VL 


preserve  it  when  obtained  came  not  from  Cir- 
cumcision but  from  Grace.  On  this  account  he 
concluded  his  exhoration  with  a  prayer,  remind- 
ing them  of  grace  and  the  Spirit,  and  at  the 
same  time  addressing  them  as  brethren,  and 
supplicating  God  that  they  might  continue  to 
enjoy  these  blessings,  thus  providing  for  them  a 
twofold  security.  For  both  prayer  and  teach- 
ing, tended  to  the  same  thing  and  together  be- 
came to  them  as  a  double  wall.  For  teaching, 
reminding  them  of  what  benefits  they  enjoyed, 
the  rather  kept  them  in  the  doctrine  of  the 


Church ;  and  prayer,  invoking  grace,  and  ex- 
horting to  an  enduring  constancy,  permitted  not 
the  Spirit  to  depart  from  them.  And  He  abid- 
ing in  them,  all  the  error  of  such  doctrines  as 
they  held  was  shaken  off  like  dust.1 


1  [  Dr.  Schaff  strikingly  says  :  "  The  last  sentence  of  this  polemic 
Epistle  is  a  benediction  and  the  last  word  is  a  word  of  affectum, 
'  brethren.'  (The  word  aftcA^ot  stands  last  in  the  true  text,  as  the 
Rev.  Version  has  it.}  It  takes  the  sting  out  of  the  severity.  Thus 
concludes  thi-  Epistle  so  full  of  polemic  fire  and  zeal,  yet  more  full 
of  grace— free  sovereign  grace,  justifying  sanctifying  grace,  and 
full  of  forgiving  love  even  to  ungrateful  pupils  ;  an  Epistle  for  the 
time  and  an  Epistle  for  all  times." — Popular  Commentary,  in 
bco.—G.  A.] 


HOMILIES  OF  ST.  JOHN  CHRYSOSTOM, 

ARCHBISHOP  OF  CONSTANTINOPLE, 


ON  THE 


EPISTLE  OF  ST.  PAUL  THE  APOSTLE 


TO    THE 


EPHESIANS. 


THE  ARGUMENT. 

Ephesus  is  the  metropolis  of  Asia.  It  was 
dedicated  to  Diana,  whom  especially  they  wor- 
shipped there  as  their  great  goddess.  Indeed  so 
great  was  the  superstition  of  her  worshippers,  that 
when  her  temple  was  burnt,  they  would  not  so 
much  as  divulge  the  name  of  the  man  who 
burnt  it. 

The  blessed  John  the  Evangelist  spent  the 
chief  part  of  his  time  there :  he  was  there  when 
he  was  banished, 1  and  there  he  died.  It  was 
there  too  that  Paul  left  Timothy,  as  he  says  in 
writing  to  him,  "  As  I  exhorted  thee  to  tarry  at 
Ephesus.  (i  Tim.  1:3.) 

Most  of  the  philosophers  also,  those  more  par- 
ticularly who  flourished  in  Asia,  were  there ; 
and  even  Pythagoras  himself  is  said  to  have 
come  from  thence;  perhaps  because  Samos, 
whence  he  really  came,  is  an  island  of  Ionia.2 
It  was  the  resort  also  of  the  disciples  of  Parmen- 
ides,  and  Zeno,  and  Democritus,  and  you  may 
see  a  number  of  philosophers  there  even  to  the 
present  day. 

These  facts  I  mention,  not  merely  as  such, 
but  with  a  view  of  showing  that  Paul  would 

1  [The  Apocalypse  already  implies  that  he  stood  at  the  head  of 
wj*  churches  of  A<ia  Minor.  Rev.  i :  4,  9,  11,  ao.  Chs.  2  and  3. 
This  is  confirmed  by  the  unanimous  testimony  of  antiquity.  The 
■KHt  probable  view  is  that  he  was  exiled  to  Patmos  under  Nero, 
•role  the  Apocalypse  soon  after  Nero's  death,  68  or  6q  A.  D. ,  re- 
turned to  Ephesus  and  died  there  after  98  A.  D.— Schaff,  Ch.  Hist. 

[Of  which  Ephesus  was  one  of  the  cities.    G.A.] 


needs  take  great  pains  and  trouble  in  writing  to 
these  Ephesians.  He  is  said  indeed  to  have 
entrusted  them,  as  being  persons  already  well- 
instructed,  with  his  profoundest  conceptions; 
and  the  Epistle  itself  is  full  of  sublime  thoughts 
and  doctrines.8 

He  wrote  the  Epistle  from  Rome,  and,  as  he 
himself  informs  us,  in  bonds.  "Pray  for  me, 
that  utterance  may  be  given  unto  me,  in  open- 
ing my  mouth  to  make  known  with  boldness  the 
mystery  of  the  Gospel,  for  which  I  am  an  am- 
bassador in  chains."  (Eph.  vi :  19.)  It  abounds 
with  sentiments  of  overwhelming  loftiness  and 
grandeur.  Thoughts  which  he  scarcely  so  much 
as  utters  anywhere  else,  he  here  plainly  declares ; 
as  when  he  says,  "  To  the  intent  that  now  unto 
the  principalities  and  the  powers  in  the  heavenly 
places  might  be  made  known  through  the 
Church  the  manifold  wisdom  of  God."  (Eph. 
iii :  10.)  And  again;  "He  raised  us  up  with 
him,  and  made  us  to  sit  with  him  in  heavenly 
places.  (Eph.  ii :  6.)  And  again;  "  Which  in 
other  generations  was  not  made  known  unto 
the  sons  of  men,  as  it  hath  now  been  revealed 
unto  His  holy  apostles  and  prophets  in  the  Spirit, 
that  the  Gentiles  are  fellow-heirs,  and  fellow- 
partakers  of  the  promise  in  Christ. "    (Eph.  iii : 

5) 

•  [Coleridge  calls  it  "the  divinest  composition  of  man."  Alford: 
"  The  greatest  and  most  heavenly  work  of  one  whose  very  im- 
agination is  peopled  with  things  in  the  heavens."  Grofius  :  "Equal- 
ing the  sublimity  of  its  thoughts  with  words  more  sublime  than  any 
human  language  ever  possessed."— Quoted  in  Schaff,  Ch.  Hist.  I. 
p.  781.— G.  A.J 

(49) 


HOMILY    I. 

Chapter  i.  Verses  1-2. 

"Paul,  an  apostle  of  Christ  Jesus  through  the  will  of  Ver.  3.    "Who  hath  blessed  us  with  every 

pod,  toAcsaints  which  arc  at  EPhesus,i  and  the  spiritual    blessing   in  the  heavenly  places  in 

faithful  in  Chnst  Jesus.     Grace  to  you,  and  peace,  A    •  .  ,,                 °                                    J     r 

from  God  our  Father,  and  the  Lord   Jesus  Christ "  ^"J,.     ,             „    ,.                ,      ,.      . 

He  is  here  alluding  to  the  blessings  of  the 

Observe,  he  applies  the  word  "  through  "  to  Jews4 ;  for  that  was  blessing  also,  but  it  was  not 

the  Father.     But  what  then  ?    Shall  we  say  that  spiritual  blessing.     For  how  did  it  run  ?    "  The 

He  is  inferior  ?  Surely  not.  Lord  bless  thee,  He  will  bless  the  fruit  of  thy 

"To  the  saints,  "  saith   he,  "which   are  at  body;"   (Deut.  vii :  13.)    and  "He  will  bless 

Ephesus,  and  the  faithful  in  Christ  Jesus.  "  thy   going  out  and   thy   coming   in."   (Deut. 

Observe  that  he  calls  saints,  men  with  wives,  xxviii :  4.)     But  here  it  is  not  thus,  but  how? 

and  children,  and  domestics.      For  that  these  "  With  every  spiritual  blessing."     And  what 

are  they  whom  he  calls  by  this  name  is  plain  lackest  thou  yet  ?    Thou  art  made  immortal, 

from  the  end  of  the  Epistle,  as,  when  he  says,  thou  art  made  free,  thou  art  made  a  son,  thou 

"Wives,  be  in  subjection  unto  your  own  hus-  art  made  righteous,  thou  art  made  a  brother, 

bands.  "  (  Eph.  v  :.  22.  )     And  again,  "  Child-  thou  art  made  a  fellow-heir,  thou  reignest  with 

ren,  obey  your  parents:  "  (Eph.  vi :  1.  )  and,  Christ,    thou    art    glorified    with   Christ;    all 

"  Servants,  be  obedient  to  your  masters.  "  (Eph.  things  are  freely  given   thee.     "How,"  saith 

vi :  5.  )     Think  how  great  is  the  indolence  that  be,  "  shall  He  not  also  with  Him  freely  give  us 

possesses  us  now,  how  rare  is  any  thing  like  vir-  all  things?"  (Rom.  viii :  32.)     Thy  First-fruits 

tue  now  and  how  great  the  abundance  of  virtu-  is  adored  by  Angels,  by  the  Cherubim,  by  the 

ous  men  must  have  been  then,  when  even  secu-  Seraphim  !     What  lackest  thou  yet?     "  With 

lar  men  could  be  called  "saints  and  faithful.  "  every   spiritual   blessing."      There   is   nothing 

"  Grace  to  you,  and  peace,  from  God  our  Father,  carnal    here.      Accordingly    He  excluded   all 

and  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  "      "Grace  "  is  his  those  former  blessings,  when  He  said,  "  In  the 

word  ;  and  he  calls  God,  "Father;  "  since  this  world  ye  have  tribulation,"  (John  xvi :  33.)  to 

name  is  a  sure  token  of  that  gift  of  grace.     And  lead   us  on  to  these.     For  as  they  who  pos- 

how  so  ?     Hear  what  he  saith  elsewhere ;   "  Be-  sessed  carnal  things  were  unable  to  hear  of  spir- 

cause  ye  are  sons,  God  sent  forth  the  Spirit  of  itual  things,  so  they  who  aim  at  spiritual  things 

His  Son  into  our  hearts,  crying,  Abba,  Father."  cannot  attain  to  them  unless  they  first  stand 

(Gal.  iv  :  6.)  aloof  from  carnal  things. 

"  And  from  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. "  What   again   is    "spiritual    blessing   in   the 

Because   for   us  men   Christ  was  born,   and  heavenly  places?"     It  is  not  upon  earth,  he 

appeared  in  the  flesh.  means,  as  was  the  case  with  the  Jews.     "Ye 

Ver.  3.    "Blessed8  be  the  God,"  he  saith,  shall  eat  the  good  of  the  land."  (Isa.  i:  19.) 

"  and  Father  of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ."  "  Unto  a  land  flowing  with  milk  and  honey." 

Observe  ;    The  God  of  Him  that  was  Incar-  (Ex.  iii :  8.)    "  The  Lord  shall  bless  thy  land." 

nate*.     And  though  thou  wilt  not,  The  Father  (Deut.  vii  .-13.)     Here  we  have  nothing  of  this 

of  God  the  Word.  sort,  but  what  have  we?     "  If  a  man  love  Me, 

"lr.tr  .    — — ; — ; — .  ,,  ., . .    .  he  will  keep  My  word,  and  I  and  My  Father 

1  [At  Ephesus,  Chrysostom's  text  has  these  words  (4v  'E^cy)  ...                     r          i  •                j          i                   i_    j          •  i 

and  he  betrays  no  knowledge  of  any  copies  which  omitted  them.  Will    COme    UntO    him,  and  make  OUr  a  DO  CI  e  With 

But   they  are  omitted  by  Aleph*  B.  by  some  MSS.,  consulted  by  t  •        »»  /t          •      .           \  <<  ftverv  one  therefore  whirh 

Basil,  and  apparently  by  Origcn's  text,  for  he  interprets  to?*  olw  nim*      Ua  X1V  '   23    '       r#VCry  UHC  Uicreiure  wniCIl 

^those  who  are)  absolutely,  as  he  would  not  have  done  had  he  read  heareth    these    WOrds  of   Mine,   and  doeth  them, 

«f  'E^f'ffw.     The  Revisers  insert  the  words  but  with  a  marginal  note.  1     u  v     vi           j                                                  i_*    i_  v.    *ia.  i.  • 

Westcott  and  Hort  hracket  them.     See  their  discussion  of  the  point  Shall  be  likened  UntO  a  Wise  man  Which  DUllt  hlS 

i^?^!*/?1  J1  •?.fG?!ey>,It)'P  "3-   For  a  full  discussion  nouse  upon  tne  ^   an(j  tne  floods  came,  and 

see  .Meyer  s  Introduction  to  Ephesians,  Sec.  i.  where  he  earnestly  .     *                                 '                                                      ' 

defends  "the  right  of  these  words  to  a  place  in  the  text."— G.  A]  the   Winds  blew,   and    beat  Upon  that  hOUSe,  and 

c." ACi°mpare  Rom  ix :  5 ;  a  Cor  ' :  3 ;  Luke ' :  68 :  '  Pctcr ' :  3 "  it  fell  not,  for  it  was  founded  upon  the  rock. " 

■  [Meyer  holds  that  the  genitive  tow  «vptov,  etc.  does  not  limit 

6eo<f,  but  only  iranjo  :  "  Blessed  be  God  who  at  same  time  is  Father  *  ["  A  contrast  to  the  earthly  benefits  promised  to  the  Jews  in  the 

of  our  Ix>rJ  Jesus  Christ."     So  also  Ellicott.— G.  A.]  Old  Testament  is  foreign  to  the  context."— Meyer.— G.  A.] 

(50) 


Homily  L] 


HOMILIES  ON  EPHESIANS. 


Si 


(Mat.  vii :  24,  25.)  And  what  is  that  rock  but 
those  heavenly  things  which  are  above  the  reach 
of  every  change  ?  *  *  Every  one  therefore  who, ' ' 
saith  Christ,  "shall  confess  Me  before  men, 
him  will  I  also  confess  before  My  Father  which 
is  in  Heaven  :  But  whosoever  shall  deny  Me, 
him  will  I  also  deny."  (Mat.  x :  32,  33.)  Again, 
"  Blessed  are  the  pure  in  heart,  for  they  shall 
see  God."  (Mat.  v:8.)  And  again,  "Blessed 
are  the  poor  in  spirit,  for  theirs  is  the  kingdom 
of  Heaven. "  (Mat.  v  :  3.)  And  again,  "Blessed 
are  ye  which  are  persecuted  for  righteousness 
sake,  for  great  is  your  reward  in  Heaven.' ' 
(Mat.  v:  n,  12.)  Observe,  how  every  where 
He  speaketh  of  Heaven,  no  where  of  earth,  or 
of  the  things  on  the  earth.1  And  again,  "  Our 
citizenship  is  in  Heaven,  from  whence  also  we 
wait  for  a  Saviour  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ." 
(Phil,  iii :  20.)  And  again,  "Not  setting  your 
mind  on  the  things  that  are  on  the  earth,  but 
on  the  things  which  are  above."  (Col.  iii :  3.) 
4 'In  Christ." 

That  is  to  say,  this  blessing  was  not  by  the 
hand  of  Moses,  but  by  Christ  Jesus:  so  that 
we  surpass  them  not  only  in  the  quality  of  the 
blessings,  but  in  the  Mediator  also.  As  more- 
over he  saith  in  the  Epistle  to  the  Hebrews; 
"  And  Moses  indeed  was  faithful  in  all  his  house 
as  a  servant,  for  a  testimony  of  those  things 
which  were  afterward  to  be  spoken  ;  but  Christ 
as  a  Son  over  His  house,  whose  house  are  we." 
(Heb.  iii:  5-6.) 

Ver.  4.  "  Even  as,"  he  proceeds,  "He  chose 
as  in  Him  before  the  foundation  of  the  world, 
that  we  should  be  holy  and  without  blemish  be- 
fore Him  in  love." 

His  meaning  is  somewhat  of  this  sort. 
Through  whom  He  hath  blessed  us,  through  Him 
He  hath  also  chosen  us.  And  He,  then,  it  is 
that  shall  bestow  upon  us  all  those  rewards  here- 
after. He  is  the  very  Judge  that  shall  say, 
"Come,  ye  blessed  of  my  Father,  inherit  the 
kingdom  prepared  for  you  from  the  foundation 
of  the  world."  (Mat.  xxv:  34.)  And  again,  "I 
will  that  where  I  am  they  will  also  be  with  Me." 
Qohn  xvii :  24.)  And  this  is  a  point  which  he  is 
anxious  to  prove  in  almost  all  his  Epistles,  that 
ours  is  no  novel  system,  but  that  it  had  thus 
been  figured  from  the  very  first,  that  it  is  not 
the  result  of  any  change  of  purpose,  but  had 
been  in  fact  a  divine  dispensation  and  fore-or- 
dained. And  this  is  a  mark  of  great  solicitude 
for  us. 

What  is  meant  by,  "  He  chose  us  in  Him?" 
By  means  of  the  faith  which  is  in  Him,  Christ, 

("Such  a  specification  of  the  'sphere*  and  thence  of  the  'spir- 
jjwl  character'  of  the  action  would  seem  superfluous  after  the 
<**™ite  words  preceding.  In  four  other  passages  in  this  Epistle  the 
oprewion,  '  in  the  heavenlies,'  seems  *  local '  (i :  20 ;  ii :  6  ;  iii :  10  ; 
*} :  w).  So  the  expression  here  must  be  referred  as  a  '  local '  pre- 
dication to  tvkoyia  irpcvfiaifK]}  defining  the  '  region '  whence  the 
Neaings  of  the  Spirit  come.     Cf.  Heb.  ri :  4."— Ellicolt.— G.  A.] 


he  means,  happily  ordered  this  for  us  before  we 
were  born ;  nay  more,  before  the  foundation  of 
the  world.  And  beautiful  is  that  word  "  foun- 
dation," as  though  he  were  pointing  to  the 
world  as  cast  down  from  some  vast  height.  Yea, 
vast  indeed  and  ineffable  is  the  height  of  God, 
so  far  removed  not  in  place  but  in  incommuni- 
cableness  of  nature ;  so  wide  the  distance  be- 
tween creation  and  Creator!  A  word  which 
heretics  may  be  ashamed  to  hear.2 

But  wherefore  hath  He  chosen  us?  "That 
we  should  be  holy  and  without  a  blemish  before 
Him."  That  you  may  not  then,  when  you  hear 
that  "  He  hath  chosen  us,"  imagine  that  faith 
alone  is  sufficient,  he  proceeds  to  add  life  and 
conduct.  To  this  end,  saith  he,  hath  He 
chosen  us,  and  on  this  condition,  "  that  we 
should  be  holy  and  without  blemish."  And  so 
formerly  he  chose  the  Jews.  On  what  terms? 
"This  nation,  saith  he,  hath  He  chosen  from  the 
rest  of  the  nations."  (Deut.  xiv:  2.)  Now  if 
men  in  their  choices  choose  what  is  best,  much 
more  doth  God.  And  indeed  the  fact  of  their 
being  chosen  is  at  once  a  token  of  the  loving 
kindness  of  God,  and  of  their  moTal  goodness.3 
For  by  all  means  would  he  have  chosen  those 
who  were  approved.  He  hath  Himself  ren- 
dered us  holy,  but  then  we  must  continue  holy. 
A  holy  man  is  he  who  is  a  partaker  of  faith  ;  a 
blameless  man  is  he  who  leads  an  irreproach- 
able life.  It  is  not  however  simply  holiness 
and  irreproachableness  that  He  requires,  but 
that  we  should  appear  such  "before  Him." 
For  there  are  holy  and  blameless  characters, 
who  yet  are  esteemed  as  such  only  by  men 
those  who  are  like  whited  sepulchres,  and  like 
such  as  wear  sheep's  clothing.  It  is  not  such,, 
however,  He  requires,  but  such  as  the  Prophet 
speaks  of;  "And  according  to  the  cleanness 
of  my  hands."  (Ps.  xviii:  24.)  What  clean- 
ness? That  which  is  so  "in  His  eyesight." 
He  requires  that  holiness  on  which  the  eye  of 
God  may  look. 

Having  thus  spoken  of  the  good  works  of 
these,  he  again  recurs  to  His  grace.  "  In  love," 
saith  he,  "  having  predestinated  us."  Because 
this  comes  not  of  any  pains,  nor  of  any  good 
works  of  ours,  but  of  love ;  and  yet  not  of  love 
alone,  but  of  our  virtue  also.    For  if  indeed  of 

9  [And  an  argument  which  can  hardly  be  considered  valid,  based, 
as  it  is,  on  the  literal  and  etymological  meaning  of  a  word  in  a 
passage  where  it  is  plainly  used  metaphorically  and  not  literally. — 
The  word  is  Karafiokrj. — G.  A.] 

'[TtKixrjptov  «cal  T»js  avrCtv  apcri}?,  a  proposition  which  will  strike 
a  Protestant  reader  of  any  denomination  with  surprise,  to  say  the 
least.  Schaff  says,  "  Chrysostom  laid  great  stress  on  free  will 
and  the  co-operation  of  the  human  will  with  divine  grace  in  the 
work  of  conversion.  Cassian,  the  founder  of  Semi-Pelagianism,  was 
his  pupil  and  appealed  to  his  authority.  We  may  say  that  in 
tendency  and  spirit  he  was  a  Catholic  Semi-Pelagian  orSyncrgist 
before  Semi-Pelagianism  was  brought  into  a  system."  Prolego- 
mena p.  20.  Chrysostom's  exposition  of  this  passage  is  inaccurate, 
inconsistent,  illogical  and  untenable.  If  He  chose  us  in  order  that 
we  should  be  holy  how  can  holiness,  or  "  moral  goodness,"  as 
Chrysostom  says,  be  an  antecedent  condition  of  His  choosing  us? 
See  note  on  ch.  ii :  zo. — G.  A.] 


44 


WORKS  OF  ST.  CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Chapter  VL 


Here  again  he  reflects  on  their  arrogance. 
He  that  thinks  himself  to  be  something  is  noth- 
ing, and  exhibits  at  the  outset  a  proof  of  his 
worthlessness  by  such  a  disposition. 

Ver.  4.  "  But  let  each  man  prove  his  own 
work." 

Here  he  shows  that  we  ought  to  be  scrutiniz- 
ers  of  our  lives,  and  this  not  lightly,  but  care- 
fully to  weigh  our  actions;  as  for  example,  if  thou 
hast  performed  a  good  deed,  consider  whether 
it  was  not  from  vain  glory,  or  through  necessity, 
or  malevolence,  or  with  hypocrisy,  or  from  some 
other  human  motive.  For  as  gold  appears  to  be 
bright  before  it  is  placed  in  the  furnace,  but 
when  committed  to  the  fire,  is  closely  proved, 
and  all  that  is  spurious  is  separated  from  what 
is  genuine,  so  too  our  works,  if  closely  examined, 
will  be  distinctly  made  manifest,  and  we 
shall  perceive  that  we  have  exposed  ourselves  to 
much  censure. 

Ver.  4.  l '  And  then  shall  he  have  his  glory- 
ing in  regard  of  himself  alone  and  not  of  his 
neighbor." 

This  he  says,  not  as  laying  down  a  rule,  but 
in  the  way  of  concession ;  and  his  meaning  is 
this,1 — Boasting  is  senseless,  but  if  thou  wilt 
boast,  boast  not  against  thy  neighbor,  as  the 
Pharisee  did.  For  he  that  is  so  instructed  will 
speedily  give  up  boasting  altogether ;  and  there- 
fore he  concedes  a  part  that  he  may  gradually 
extirpate  the  whole.  He  that  is  wont  to  boast 
with  reference  to  himself  only,  and  not  against 
others,  will  soon  reform  this  failing  also.  For 
he  that  does  not  consider  himself  better  than 
others,  for  this  is  the  meaning  of  "  not  in  re- 
gard of  his  neighbor,  but  becomes  elated  by  exam- 
ining himself  by  himself,  will  afterwards  cease 
to  be  so.  And  that  you  may  be  sure  this  is  what 
he  desires  to  establish,  observe  how  he  checks 
him  by  fear,  saying  above,  "  let  every  man  prove 
his  own  work,"  and  adding  here, 

Ver.  5.  "For  each  man  shall  bear  his  own 
burden." 

He  appears  to  state  a  reason  prohibitory  of 
boasting  against  another ;  but  at  the  same  time 
he  corrects  the  boaster,  to  that  he  may  no  more 
entertain  high*  thoughts  of  himself  by  bringing 
to  his  remembrance  his  own  errors,  and  press- 
ing upon  his  conscience  the  idea  of  a  burden, 
and  of  being  heavily  laden.2 

Ver.  6.  "But  let  him  that  is  taught  in  the 
word  communicate  unto  him  that  teacheth  in  all 
good  things." 

Here  he  proceeds  to  discourse  concerning 


1  ["  If  any  one  wishes  to  find  matter  for  boasting,  let  it  [be  truly 
searched  for  in  his  own  actions  and  not  derived  from  a  contrast  of 
his  own  fancied  virtues  with  the  faults  of  others." — EUicott. — G.A.j 

9  [EUicott  says,  "  The  qualitative  and  humbling  distinction  of 
Chrysostom  does  not  appear  natural  or  probable,  nor  does  it  refer 
to  that  which  will  take  place  in  every  man  after  the  examination 
(Meyer);  but  is  apparently  used  ethically  in  reference  to  what  ac- 
cording to  the  nature  of  things  must  be  the  case."— G.  A.] 


Teachers,  to  the  effect  that  they  ought  to  be 
tended  with  great  assiduity  by  their  disciples. 
Now  what  is  the  reason  that  Christ  so  command- 
ed? For  this  law,  "that  they  which  preach 
the  Gospel  should  live  of  the  Gospel,"  (i  Cor. 
ix:  14.)  is  laid  down  in  the  New  Testament; 
and  likewise  in  the  Old,  (Num.  xxxi :  47  ;  xxxv ; 
1-8.)  many  revenues  accrued  to  the  Levites  from 
the  people  ;  what  is  the  reason,  I  say,  that  He 
so  ordained  ?  Was  it  not  for  the  sake  of  laying  a 
foundation  beforehand  of  lowliness  and  love? 
For  inasmuch  as  the  dignity  of  a  teacher  often- 
times elates  him  who  possesses  it,  He,  in  order 
to  repress  his  spirit,  hath  imposed  on  him  the 
necessity  of  requiring  aid  at  the  hands  of  his 
disciples.  And  to  these  in  turn  he  hath  given* 
means  of  cultivating  kindly  feelings,  by  training 
them,  through  the  kindness  required  of  them  to 
their  Teacher,  in  gentleness  towards  others  also. 
By  this  means  no  slight  affection  is  generated 
on  both  sides.  Were  not  the  cause  of  this  what 
I  have  stated  it  to  be,  why  should  He,  who  fed 
the  dull-minded  Jews  with  manna,  have  reduced 
the  Apostles  to  the  necessity  of  asking  for  aid  ? 
Is  it  not  manifest  He  aimed  at  the  great  benefits 
of  humility  and  love,  and  that  those  who  were 
under  teaching  might  not  be  ashamed  of  Teach- 
ers who  were  in  appearance  despicable?  To 
ask  for  aid  bears  the  semblance  of  disgrace,  but 
it  ceased  to  be  so,  when  their  Teachers  with  all 
boldness  urged  their  claim,  so  that  their  disci- 
ples derived  from  hence  no  small  benefit,  taught 
hereby  to  despise  all  appearances.  Wherefore 
he  says,  "  But 4  let  him  that  is  taught  in  the  word 
communicate  unto  him  that  teacheth  in  all  good  . 
things,"  that  is,  let  him  show  to  him  all  gener- 
osity; this  he  implies  by  the  words,  "in  all 
good  things."  Let  the  disciple,  says  he,  keep 
nothing  to  himself,  but  have  every  thing  in  com- 
mon, for  what  he  receives  is  better  than  what  he 
gives, — as  much  better  as  heavenly  are  better 
than  earthly  things.  This  he  expresses  in  an- 
other place,  "If  we  sowed  unto  you  spiritual  things, 
is  it  a  great  matter  if  we  shall  reap  your  carnal 
things  ?"(i  Cor.  ix:  11.)  Wherefore  he  gives  the 
procedure  the  name  of  a  "communication," 
showing  that  an  interchange  takes  place.  Here- 
by too  love  is  greatly  fostered  and  confirmed. 
If  the  teacher  asks  merely  for  competency,  he 
does  not  by  receiving  it  derogate  from  his  own 
dignity.     For  this  is  praiseworthy,  so   assidu- 

•  [Those  philosophers  among  the  Greeks  who  received  pay  from 
their  pupils  were  looked  down  upon,  and  called  Sophists,  via.  Xen. 
Mem.  1.  6.  §,  13. 

4  [Different  views  are  held  as  to  the  connection  of  this  with  the 
preceding.  Light  foot  says  the  connection  is  this  ;  ."I  spoke  of  bear- 
ing one  another's  burdens.  There  is  one  special  application  I 
would  make  of  this  rule  ;  provide  for  the  wants  of  your  teachers. 
Ac  arrests  a  former  topic  before  it  passes  out  of  sight."  (Compare  4: 
20.)  But  EUicott  takes  a  different  view  and  says  :  "The  duty  of 
sharing  their  temporal  blessings  with  their  teachers  is  placed  in  con- 
trast with  the  foregoing  declaration  of  individual  responsibility  in 
spiritual  matters."  So  also  Meyer  who,  however,  refers  it  to  moral 
good. — G.  A.] 


Chapter  VI.] 


COMMENTARY  ON  GALATIANS. 


45 


ousiy  to  apply  to  the  Word,  as  to  require  the 
aid  of  others,  and  to  be  in  manifold  poverty, 
and  to  be  regardless  of  all  the  means  of  subsis- 
tence. But  if  he  exceed  the  due  measure,  he 
injures  his  dignity,  not  by  mere  receiving,  but 
by  receiving  too  much.  Then,  lest  the  vice  of 
the  Teacher  should  render  the  disciple  more  re- 
miss in  this  matter,  and  he  should  frequently 
pass  him  by,  though  poor,  on  account  of  his 
conduct,  he  proceeds  to  say, 

Ver.  9.  "  And  let  us  not  be  weary  in  well 
doing."1 

And  here  he  points  out  the  difference  between 
ambition  of  this  kind,  and  in  temporal  affairs, 
by   saying,    "Be   not  deceived*;   God  is  not 
mocked ;  for  whatsoever  a  man  so  wet  h,  that  shall 
he  also  reap.     For  he  that  soweth  unto  his  own 
flesh  shall  of  the  flesh  reap  corruption ;  but  he  that 
soweth  unto  the  Spirit  shall  of  the  Spirit  reap  eter- 
nal life."    As  in  the  case  of  seeds,  one  who  sows 
pulse  cannot  reap  corn,  for  what  is  sown  and 
what  is  reaped  must  both  be  of  one  kind,  so  is  it  in 
actions,  he  that  plants  in  the  flesh,  wantonness, 
drunkenness,  or  inordinate  desire,  shall  reap  the 
fruits  of  these   things.     And  what  are  these 
fruits?  Punishment,  retribution,  shame,  deris- 
ion, destruction.     For  of  sumptuous  tables  and 
▼iands  the  end  is  no  other  than  destruction ;  for 
they  both  perish  themselves,  and  destroy  the 
body  too.     But  the  fruit  of  the  Spirit  is  of  a. 
nature  not  similar  but  contrary  in  all  respects  to 
these.     For  consider ;  hast  thou  sown  alms-giv- 
ing ?  the  treasures  of  heaven  and  eternal  glory 
await  thee :  hast  thou  sown  temperance  ?  honor 
and  reward,  and  the  applause  of  Angels,  and  a 
crown  from  the  Judge  await  thee. 

Ver.  9,  10.  "And  let  us  not  be  weary  in 
well-doing ;  for  in  due  season  we  shall  reap,  if 
we  faint  not.  So  then  as  we  have  opportunity, 
let  us  work  that  which  is  good  toward  all  men, 
especially  toward  them  that  are  of  the  household 
of  faith." 

Lest  any  one  should  suppose  that  their  Teach- 
ers were  to  be  cared  for  and  supported,  but  that 
others  might  be  neglected,  he  makes  his  dis- 
course general,  and  opens  the  door  of  this  chari- 
table zeal  to  all ;  nay,  he  carries  it  to  such  a 
height,  as  to  command  us  to  show  mercy  both 
to  Jews  and  Greeks,  in  the  proper  gradation 
indeed,  but  still  to  show  mercy.  And  what  is 
this  gradation?  it  consists  in  bestowing  greater 
care  upon  the  faithful.     His  endeavor  here  is 

1  [Dislocated  by  Chrysostom.  This  Is  a  part  of  verse  o,  and  is  an 
encouragement  not  to  become  weary  in  below  sowing  to  the  Spirit. — 
%«r.-G.  A.] 

,  l"eyer,  understanding  "all  good  things"  to  mean  every  thing 
tta*  U  morally  good,  says,  that  this  is  a  warning  to  the  readers,  in 
resJ*ct  to  this  necessary  moral  fellowship  not  to  allow  themselves 
10  k  led  astray  (by  the  teachers  of  error  or  otherwise).  Light  foot 
^Schaff  refer  this  warning  to  the  consequences  of  failure  to  share 
'^it  temporal  blessings  with  their  teachers.  Elliott  says,  "  Verse 
;«-•  a  continuation  of  the  subject  in  a  more  general  ana  extended 
**y  but  not  without  reference  to  the  special  command  which  im- 
mediately precedes."— G.  A.] 


the  same  as  in  his  other  Epistles ;  he  discourses 
not  merely  of  showing  mercy,  but  of  doing  it 
with  zeal  and  perseverance,  for  the  expressions 
of  "sowing"  and  of  "not  fainting* '  imply 
this.  Then,  having  exacted  a  great  work,  he 
places  its  reward  close  at  hand,  and  makes  men- 
tion of  a  new  and  wondrous  harvest.  Among 
husbandmen,  not  only  the  sower  but  also  the 
reaper  endures  much  labor,  having  to  struggle 
with  drought  and  dust  and  grievous  toil,  but  in 
this  case  none  of  these  exist,  as  he  shows  by  the 
words,  "  for  in  due  season  we  shall  reap,  if  we 
faint  not."  By  this  means  he  stimulates  and 
draws  them  on ;  and  he  also  urges  and  presses 
them  forward  by  another  motive,  saying,  "  As 
we  have  therefore  opportunity,  let  us  do  good." 
As  it  is  not  always  in  our  power  to  sow,  so 
neither  is  it  to  show  mercy ;  for  when  we  have 
been  carried  hence,  though  we  may  desire  it  a 
thousand  times,  we  shall  be  able  to  effect  noth- 
ing more.  To  this  argument  of  ours  the  Ten 
Virgins  (Mat.  xxv:  iff)  bear  witness,  who 
although  they  wished  it  a  thousand  times,  yet 
were  shut  out  from  the  bridegroom,  because  they 
brought  with  them  no  bountiful  charity.  And 
so  does  the  rich  man  who  neglected  Lazarus 
(Luke  xvi  :  19.)  for  he,  being  destitute  of  this 
succor,  although  he  wept  and  made  many 
entreaties,  won  no  compassion  from  the  Patri- 
arch, or  any  one  else,  but  continued  destitute  of 
all  forgiveness,  and  tormented  with  perpetual 
fire.  Therefore  he  says,  "  as  we  have  opportu- 
nity, let  us  work  that  which  is  good  toward  all 
men,"  hereby  especially  also  setting  them  free 
from  the  narrow-mindedness  of  the  Jews.  For 
the  whole  of  their  benevolence  was  confined  to 
their  own  race,  but  the  rule  of  life  which  Grace 
gives  invites  both  land  and  sea  to  the  board  of 
charity,  only  it  shows  a  greater  care  for  its  own 
household. 

Ver.  11,  12.  "  See  with  how  large  letters  I 
have  written  unto  you  with  mine  own  hand. 
As  many  as  desire  to  make  a  fair  show  in  the 
flesh,  they  compel  you  to  be  circumcised." 

Observe  what  grief  posesses  his  blessed  soul. 
As  those  who  are  oppressed  with  some  sorrow, 
who  have  lost  one  of  their  own  kindred,  and 
suffered  an  unexpected  calamity,  rest  neither  by 
night  nor  day,  because  their  grief  besieges  their 
soul,  so  the  blessed  Paul,  after  a  short  moral  dis- 
course, returns  again  to  that  former  subject 
which  chiefly  disturbed  his  mind,  saying  as  fol- 
lows :  *  *  see  with  how  large  letters  I  have  written 
unto  you  with  mine  own  hand."  By  this  he 
signifies  that  he  had  written  the  whole  letter3 


3  [Elliott  hesitatingly  adopts  this  view  also.  So  Alford  and  Rid. 
die  (in  I^ange).  But  Meyer,  SchaflF,  Schmoller  (in  I^uige)  and 
Light  foot  say  that  iypa\f/a  (Philem  19)  is  the  epistolary  aorist  and 
marks  the  point  at  which  Paul  takes  the  pen  from  the  amanuensis  ; 
and  that  only  this  concluding  paragraph  was  written  with  his  own 
hand.     So  the  American  Committee  also  in  the  Rev.  Ver.— G.  A.J 


46 


WORKS  OF  ST.  CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Chapter  VL 


himself,  which  was  a  proof  of  great  sincerity. 
In  his  other  Epistles  he  himself  only  dictated, 
another  wrote,  as  is  plain  from  the  Epistle  to 
the  Romans,  for  at  its  close  it  is  said,  "  I  Ter- 
tius,  who  write  the  Epistle,  salute  you  ;  "  (Rom. 
xvi :  22.)  but  in  this  instance  he  wrote  the 
whole  himself.  And  this  he  did  by  necessity, 
not  from  affection  merely,  but  in  order  to  remove 
an  injurious  suspicion.  Being  charged  with 
acts  wherein  he  had  no  part,  and  being  reported 
to  preach  Circumcision  yet  to  pretend  to  preach 
it  not,  he  was  compelled  to  write  the  Epistle 
with  his  own  hand,  thus  laying  up  beforehand  a 
written  testimony.  By  the  expression  "what 
sized,"  he  appears  to  me  to  signify,  not  the 
magnitude,  but,  the  misshapen  appearance1  of 
the  letters,  as  if  he  had  said,  "Although  not  well 
skilled  in  writing,  I  have  been  compelled  to 
write  with  my  own  hand  to  stop  the  mouth  of 
these  traducers." 

Ver.  12,  13.  "As  many  as  desire  to  make  a 
fair  show  in  the  flesh,  they  compel  you  to  be  cir- 
cumcised ;  only  that  they  may  not  be  persecuted 
for  the  cross  of  Christ.  For  not  even  they  who 
receive  circumcision  do  themselves  keep  the 
Law )  but  they  desire  to  have  you  circumcised, 
that  they  may  glory  in  your  flesh.' ' 

Here  he  shows  that  they  suffered  this,  not 
willingly  but  of  necessity,  and  affords  them  an 
opportunity  of  retreat,  almost  speaking  in  their 
defence,  and  exhorting  them  to  abandon  their 
teachers  with  all  speed.  What  is  the  meaning 
of  "to  make  a  fair  show  in  the  flesh?"  it 
means,  to  be  esteemed  by  men.  As  they  were 
reviled  by  the  Jews  for  deserting  the  customs  of 
their  fathers,  they  desire,  says  he,  to  injure  you, 
that  they  may  not  have  this  charged  against 
them,  but  vindicate  themselves  by  means  of 
your  flesh.2  His  object  here  is  to  show  that 
they  did  not  so  act  from  respect  to  God ;  it  is 
as  if  he  said,  This  procedure  is  not  founded  in 
piety,  all  this  is  done  through  human  ambition  ; 
in  order  that  the  unbelievers  may  be  gratified  by 
the  mutilation  of  the  faithful,  they  choose  to 
offend  God  that  they  may  please  men ;  for  this 
is  the  meaning  of,  "  to  make  a  fair  show  in  the 
flesh."  Then,  as  a  proof  that  for  another  reason 
too  they  are  unpardonable,  he  again  convinces 
them  that,  not  only  in  order  to  please  others, 
but  for  their  own  vain  glory ;  3  they  had  enjoined 

1  ["  The  word  used,  vrfKUois,  denotes  size  not  irregularity.  Nor 
is  it  probable  that  Paul  who  was  educated  at  Jerusalem  and  Tarsus, 
the  great  centre  of  Jewish  and  Greek  learning,  was  ignorant  and 
unskillful  in  writing  Greek.  The  boldness  of  the  handwriting 
answers  to  the  force  of  the  Apostle's  convictions." — Lightfoot. — 
G.  A] 

8  ["  Certain  men  have  an  'object*  in  displaying  their  zeal 
for  carnal  ordinances.  They  hope  thereby  to  save  themselves  from 
persecution  for  professing  the  cross  of  Christ." — Lightfoot. — G. 
A.J 

*["They  advocate  circumcision  and  yet  they  themselves  neglect 
the  ordinances  of  the  Law.  They  could  not  face  the  obloquy  to 
which  their  abandonment  of  the  Mosaic  Taw  would  expose  them. 
So  they  tried  to  keep  on  good  terms  with  their  unconverted  fellow- 
Jews  by  imposing  circumcision  on  the  Gentile  converts  also  thus 
getting  the  credit  of  zeal  for  the  law." — Lightfoot. — G.  A.] 


this.  Wherefore  he  adds,  "  that  they  may  glory 
in  your  flesh,"  as  if  they  had  disciples,  and  were 
teachers.  And  what  is  the  proof  of  this?  "  For 
not  even  they  themselves,"  he  says,  "keep  the 
Lawj"  even  if  they  did  keep  it,  they  would 
incur  grave  censure,  but  now  their  very  purpose 
is  corrupt. 

Ver.  14.  "But  far  be  it  from  me  to  glory, 
save  in  the  cross  of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ." 

Truly  this  symbol  is  thought  despicable ;  but  it 
is  so  in  the  workTs  reckoning,  and  among  men ; 
in  Heaven  and  among  the  faithful  it  is  the  high- 
est glory.  Poverty  too  is  despicable,  but  it  is 
our  boast ;  and  to  be  cheaply  thought  of  by  the 
public  is  a  matter  of  laughter  to  them,  but  we 
are  elated  by  it.  So.too  is  the  Cross  our  boast. 
He  does  not  say,  "  I  boast  not,"  nor,  "  I  will 
not  boast,"  but,  "Far  be  it  from  me  that  I 
should,"  as  if  he  abominated  it  as  absurd,  and 
invoked  the  aid  of  God  in  order  to  his  success 
therein.  And  what  is  the  boast  of  the  Cross? 
That  Christ  for  my  sake  took  on  Him  the  form 
of  a  slave,  and  bore  His  sufferings  for  me  the 
slave,  the  enemy,  the  unfeeling  one  ;  yea  He  so 
loved  me  as  to  give  Himself  up  to  a  curse  for 
me.  What  can  be  comparable  to  this  I  If  ser- 
vants who  only  receive  praise  from  their  masters, 
to  whom  they  are  akin  by  nature,  are  elated 
thereby,  how  must  we  not  boast  when  the  Mas- 
ter who  is  very  God  is  not  ashamed  of  the  Cross 
which  was  endured  for  us.  Let  us  then  not  be 
ashamed  of  His  unspeakable  tenderness ;  He 
was  not  ashamed  of  being  crucified  for  thy  sake, 
and  wilt  thou  be  ashamed  to  confess  His  infinite 
solicitude  ?  It  is  as  if  a  prisoner  who  had  not 
been  ashamed  of  his  King,  should,  after  that 
King  had  come  to  the  prison  and  himself  loosed 
the  chains,  become  ashamed  of  him  on  that  ac* 
count.  Yet  this  would  be  the  height  of  mad- 
ness, for  this  very  fact  would  be  an  especial 
ground  for  boasting. 

Ver.  14.  "Through  which  the  world  hath 
been  crucified  unto  me,  and  I  unto  the  world."4 

What  he  here  calls  the  world  ie  not  the  heav- 
en nor  the  earth,  but  the  affairs  of  life,  the 
praise  of  men,  retinues,  glory,  wealth,  and  all 
such  things  as  have  a  show  of  splendor.  To 
me  these  things  are  dead.  Such  an  one  it  be- 
hooves a  Christian  to  be,  and  always  to  use  this 
language.  Nor  was  he  content  with  the  former 
putting  to  death,  but  added  another,  saying, 
"  and  I  unto  the  world,"  thus  implying  a  double 
putting  to  death,  and  saying,  They  are  dead  to 
me,  and  I  to  them,  neither  can  they  captivate 
and  overcome  me,  for  they  are  dead  once  for  all, 

4  ["  For  myself,  on  the  other  hand,  far  be  it  from  me,  etc.:  By 
way  of  contrast  to  the  boasting  of  the  pseudo-apostles,  Paul  now 
presents  his  own  ground  of  boasting,  namely,  the  crucifixion  of 
Christ,  by  whose  crucifixion  is  produced  the  result  that  no  fellow- 
ship of  life  longer  exists  between  him  and  the  world  :  it  is  dead 
for  him  and  he  is  dead  for  it." — Mever. — Alter  pro  mortuo  habet 
alteram.  (Schott.)— G.  A.J 


Chapter  VI.] 


COMMENTARY  ON  GALATIANS. 


47 


nor  can  I  desire  them,  for  I  too  am  dead  to 
them.  Nothing  can  be  more  blessed  than  this 
putting  to  death,  for  it  is  the  foundation  of  the 
blessed  life. 

Ver.  15,  16.  "For  neither  is  circumcision 
any  thing,  nor  uncircumcision,  but  a  new  crea- 
ture. And  as  many  as  shall  walk  by  this  rule, 
peace  be  upon  them,  and  mercy,  and  upon  the 
Israel  of  God." 

Observe  the  power  of  the  Cross,  to  what  a 
pitch  it  hath  raised  him !  not  only  hath  it  put 
to  death  for  him  all  mundane  affairs,  but  hath  set 
him  far  above  the  Old  Dispensation.  What  can 
be  comparable  to  this  power  ?  for  the  Cross  hath 
persuaded  him,  who  was  willing  to  be  slain  and  to 
slay  others  for  the  sake  of  circumcision,  to  leave 
it  on  a  level  with  uncircumcision,  and  to  seek 
for  things  strange  and  marvellous  and  above  the 
heavens.  This  our  rule  of  life  he  calls  "  a  new 
creature,"  both  on  account  of  what  is  past, 
and  of  what  is  to  come ;  of  what  is  past,  be- 
cause our  soul,  which  had  grown  old  with  the 
oldness  of  sin,  hath  been  all  at  once  renewed  by 
baptism,  as  if  it  had  been  created  again.1 
Wherefore  we  require  a  new  and  heavenly  rule 
of  life.  And  of  things  to  come,  because  both 
the  heaven  and  the  earth,  and  all  the  creation, 
shall  with  our  bodies  be  translated  into  incor- 
ruption.  Tell  me  not  then,  he  says,  of  circum- 
cision, which  now  availeth  nothing  ;  (for  how 
shall  it  appear,  when  all  things  have  undergone 
such  a  change?)  but  seek  the  new  things  of 
grace.  For  they  who  pursue  these  things  shall 
enjoy  peace  and  amity,  and  may  properly  be 
called  by  the  name  of  "  Israel."  While  they  who 
hold  contrary  sentiments,  although  they  be  de- 
scended from  him  (Israel)  and  bear  his  appel- 
lation, have  yet  fallen  away  from  all  these  things, 
both  the  relationship  and  the  name  itself.  But 
it  is  in  their  power  to  be  true  Israelites,  who 
keep  this  rule,  who  desist  from  the  old  ways, 
and  follow  after  grace. 

Ver.  17.  "From  henceforth  let  no  man 
trouble  me." 

This  he  says  not  as  though  he  were  wearied 
or  overpowered  ;  he  who  chose  to  do  and  suffer 
all  for  his  disciples' sake;  he  who  said,  "  Be 
instant  in'  season,  out  of  season;  "  (2  Tim.  iv  : 
2.)  he  who  said,  "  If  peradventure  God  may 
give  them  repentance  unto  the  knowledge  of  the 
truth,  and  they  may  recover  themselves  out  of  the 
snare  of  the  devil ;  "  (2  Tim.  ii :  25,  26.)  how 
shall  he  now  become  relaxed  and  fall  back? 
Wherefore  does  he  say  this?  it  is  to  gird  up 
their  slothful  mind,  and  to  impress  them  with 
deeper  fear,  and  to  ratify  the  laws  enacted  by 


1  ["It  is  a  matter  of  indifference  whether  one  is  circumcised  or 
oncircumcised ;  and  the  only  matter  of  importance  is  that  one 
should  be  created  anew,  transferred  into  a  new  spiritual  condition 
oflife/'-Meyer.— G.  A.] 


himself,  and  to  restrain  their  perpetual  fluctua- 
tions.2 

Ver.  17.  "For  I  bear  branded  on  my  body 
the  marks  of  Jesus." 

He  says  not,  "I  have,"  but,  "  I  bear,"  like 
a  man  priding  himself  on  trophies  and  royal  en- 
signs. Although  on  a  second  thought  it  seems 
a  disgrace,  yet  does  this  man  vaunt  of  his 
wounds,  and  like  military  standard-bearers,  so 
does  he  exult  in  bearing  about  these  wounds. 
And  why  does  he  say  this?  "  More  clearly  by 
those  wounds  than  by  any  argument,  than  by 
any  language,  do  I  vindicate  myself,"  says  he. 
For  these  wounds  utter  a  voice  louder  than  a 
trumpet  against  my  opponents,  and  against  those 
who  say  that  I  play  the  hypocrite  in  my  teaching, 
and  speak  what  may  please  men.  For  no  one 
who  saw  a  soldier  retiring  from  the  battle  bathed 
in  blood  and  with  a  thousand  wounds,  would 
dare  to  accuse  him  of  cowardice  and  treachery, 
seeing  that  he  bears  on  his  body  the  proofs  of 
his  valor,  and  so  ought  ye,  he  says,  to  judge  of 
me.  And  if  any  one  desire  to  hear  my  de- 
fence, and  to  learn  my  sentiments,  let  him  con- 
sider my  wounds,  which  afford  a  stronger  proof 
than  these  words  and  letters.  At  the  outset  of 
his  Epistle  he  evinced  his  sincerity  by  the  sud- 
denness of  his  conversion,  at  its  close  he  proves 
it  by  the  perils  which  attended  his  conversion. 
That  it  might  not  be  objected  that  he  had 
changed  his  course  with  upright  intentions, 
but  that  he  had  not  continued  in  the  same  pur- 
pose, he  produces  his  trials,  his  dangers,  his 
stripes  as  witnesses  that  he  had  so  continued. 

Then  having  clearly  justified  himself  in  every 
particular,  and  proved  that  he  had  spoken  noth- 
ing from  anger  or  malevolence,  but  had  pre- 
served his  affection  towards  them  unimpaired, 
he  again  establishes  this  same  point  by  conclud- 
ing his  discourse  with  a  prayer  teeming  with  a 
thousand  blessings,  in  these  words ; 

Ver.  18.  "  The  grace  of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ 
be  with  your  spirit,  brethren.     Amen."  , 

By  this  last  word  he  hath  sealed  all  that  pre- 
ceded it.  He  says  not  merely,  "  with  you,"  as 
elsewhere,  but,  "with  your  spirit,"  thus  with- 
drawing them  from  carnal 3  things,  and  display- 
ing throughout  the  beneficence  of  God,  and  re- 
minding them  of  the  grace  which  they  enjoyed, 
whereby  he  was  able  to  recall  them  from  all 
their  judaizing  errors.  For  to  have  received  the 
Spirit  came  not  of  the  poverty  of  the  Law,  but 
of  the  righteousness  which  is  by  Faith,  and  to 

9  ["  Light  foot  similarly,  but  more  clearly;  "Paul  closes  the 
epistle  as  he  began  it,  with  an  uncompromising  assertion  of  his 
authority:  Henceforth  let  no  man  question  my  authority  ;  let  no 
man  thwart  or  annoy  me.  Jesus  is  my  Master  and  his  brand  is 
stamped  on  my  body.  I  bear  this  badge  of  an  honorable  servi- 
tude."—G.  A.] 

*  [So  also  Light  foot,  who  says,  "  with  your  spirit "  is  probably  in 
reference  to  the  carnal  religion  of  the  Galatians,  but  this  cannot  be 
pressed  because  the  same  form  of  benediction  occurs  in  Philem, 
25  ;  a  Tim.  iv :  22.  Meyer  denies  there  is  any  such  allusion  at  all 
G.  A.] 


56 


WORKS  OF  ST.  CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  XL 


things  after  the  counsel  of  His  will."  That  is 
to  say,  He  had  no  after  workings ;  having  mod- 
eled all  things  from  the  very  first,  thus  he  leads 
forward  all  things  "according  to  the  counsel 
of  His  will."  So  that  it  was  not  merely 
because  the  Jews  did  not  listen  that  He  called 
the  Gentiles,  nor  was  it  of  mere  necessity, 
nor  was  it  on  any  inducement  arising  from 
them. 

Ver.  12,  13.  "  To  the  end  that  we  should  be 
unto  the  praise  of  His  glory,  we  who  had  before 
hoped1  in  Christ.  In  whom  ye  also  having 
heard  the  word  of  the  truth,  the  Gospel  of  your 
salvation." 

That  is  to  say,  through  whom.  Observe  how 
he  on  all  occasions  speaks  of  Christ,  as  the 
Author  of  all  things,  and  in  no  case  gives  Him 
the  title  of  a  subordinate  agent,  or  a  minister. 
And  so  again,  elsewhere,  in  his  Epistle  to  the 
Hebrews,  he  says,  "  that  God,  having  of  old 
time  spoken  unto  the  Fathers  in  the  prophets, 
hath  at  the  end  of  these  days  spoken  unto  us  in 
His  Son,"  (Heb.  1  :  1.)  that  is  "  through  "  His 
Son. 

"  The  word  of  truth,"  he  says,  no  longer  that 
of  the  type,  nor  of  the  image. 

"The  Gospel  of  your  salvation."  And  well 
does  he  call  it  the  Gospel  of  salvation,  intimat- 
ing in  the  one  word  a  contrast  to  the  law,  in 
the  other,  a  contrast  with  punishment  to  come. 
For  what  is  the  message,  but  the  Gospel  of  salva- 
tion, which  forbears  to  destroy  those  that  are 
worthy  of  destruction. 

Ver.  14.  "  In  whom  having  also  believed, 
ye  were  sealed  with  the  Holy  Spirit  of  promise, 
which  is  an  earnest  of  our  inheritance." 

Here  again,  the  word  "  sealed,"  is  an 
indication  of  especial  forecast.  He  does  not 
speak  of  our  being  predestinated  only,  nor 
of  our  being  allotted,  but  further,  of  our  being 
sealed.  For  just  as  though  one  were  to  make 
those  who  should  fall  to  his  lot  manifest,  so 
also  did  God  separate  them  for  believing,  and 
sealed  them  for  the  allotment  of  the  things  to 
come. 

You  see  how,  in  process  of  time,  He  makes 
them  objects  of  wonder.  So  long  as  they  were 
in  His  foreknowledge,  they  were  manifest  to  no 
one,  but  when  they  were  sealed,  they  became 
manifest,  though  not  in  the  same  way  as  we  are ; 
for  they  will  be  manifest  except  a  few.  The 
Israelites  also  were  sealed,  but  that  was  by  cir- 
cumcision, like  the  brutes  and  reasonless  creat- 
ures. We  too  are  sealed,  but  it  is  as  sons, 
"with  the  Spirit." 


1  [Meyer's  reference  of  qpac  *  •  *  rovs  wpoifArwcoTcK  to  Jewish  , 
Christians  seems  precarious.     It  seems  better  to  make  the  ^M«f  re- 
fer to  Christians   in  general,  the  wpo  in  wpoijAwncoTac  refer  to  the 
time  before  the  second  Advent  and  thecal  vfici?  to  the  readers.  So 
De  Weite  and  Theophylact.— G.  A.] 


But  what  is  meant  by,  "with  the  Spirit  of 
promise?"  Doubtless  it  means  that  we  have 
received  that  Spirit  according  to  promise.  For 
there  are  two  promises,  the  one  by  the  prophets, 
the  other  from  the  Son. 

By  the  Prophets — Hearken  to  the  words  of 
Joel ;  "I  will  pour  out  My  spirit  upon  all  flesh, 
and  your  sons  and  your  daughters  shall  prophesy, 
your  old  men  shall  dream  dreams,  your  young 
men  shall  see  visions,"  (Joel  ii :  28.)  And 
hearken  again  to  the  words  of  Christ ;  "  But  ye 
shall  receive  power,  when  the  Holy  Ghost  is 
come  upon  you,  and  ye  shall  be  my  witnesses 
both  in  Jerusalem,  and  in  all  Judea,  and  Samaria, 
and  unto  the  uttermost  part  of  the  earth."  (Acts, 
i  :8 .)  And  truly,  the  Apostle  means,  He  ought, 
as  God,  to  have  been  believed ;  however,  he 
does  not  ground  his  affirmation  upon  this,  but 
examines  it  like  a  case  where  man  is  concerned, 
speaking  much  as  he  does  in  the  Epistle  to  the 
Hebrews ;  (Heb.  vi :  18.)  wherehesays,  "  That 
by  two  immutable  things  in  which  it  was  impos- 
sible for  God  to  lie,  we  may  have  a  strong  en- 
couragement." Thus  here  also  he  makes  the 
things  already  bestowed  a  sure  token  of  the 
promise  of  those  which  are  yet  to  come.  For 
this  reason  he  further  calls  it  an  "  earnest," 
(Cf.  also  2.  Cor.  i :  22.)  fqr  an  earnest  is  a  part 
of  the  whole.  He  hath  purchased  what  we  are 
most  concerned  in,  our  salvation ;  and  hath 
given  us  an  earnest  in  the  mean  while.  Why 
then  did  He  not  give  the  whole  at  once? 
Because  neither  have  we,  on  our  part,  done  the 
whole  of  our  work.  We  have  believed.  This 
is  a  beginning ;  and  He  too  on  His  part  hath 
given  an  earnest.  When  we  show  cur  faith  by 
our  works,  then  He  will  add  the  rest.  Nay, 
more,  He  hath  given  yet  another  pledge,  His 
own  blood,  and  hath  promised  another  still.  In 
the  same  way  as  in  case  of  war  between  nation 
and  nation  they  give  hostages:  just  so  hath  God 
also  given  His  Son  as  a  pledge  of  peace  and 
solemn  treaties,  and,  further,  the  Holy  Spirit 
also  which  is  from  Him.  For  they,  that  are  in- 
deed partakers  of  the  Spirit,  know  that  He  is  the 
earnest  of  our  inheritance.  Such  an  one  was 
Paul,  who  already  had  here  a  foretaste  of 
the  blessings  there.  And  this  is  why  he  was  so 
eager,  and  yearned  to  be  released  from  things 
below,  and  groaned  within  himself.  He  trans- 
ferred his  whole  mind  thither,  and  saw  every 
thing  with  different  eyes.  Thou  hast  no  part  in 
the  reality,  and  therefore  failest  to  understand 
the  description.  Were  we  all  partakers  of  the 
Spirit,  as  we  ought  to  be  partakers,  then  should 
we  behold  Heaven,  and  the  order  of  things  that 
is  there. 

It  is  an  earnest,  however,  of  what  ?  of 

Ver.  14.  "The  redemption  of  God's  own 
possession." 


Homily  II.] 


HOMILIES  ON  EPHESIANS. 


57 


For  our  absolute  redemption  takes  place  then.1 
For  now  we  have  our  life  in  the  world,  we  are 
liable  to  many  human  accidents,  and  are  living 
amongst  ungodly  men.     But  our  absolute  re- 
demption will  be  then,  when  there  shall  be  no 
sins,  no  human  sufferings,  when  we  shall  not  be 
indiscriminately  mixed  with  all  kinds  of  people. 
At  present,  however,  there  is  but  an  earnest, 
because  at  present  we  are  far  distant  from  these 
blessings.     Yet  is  our  citizenship  not  upon  earth ; 
even  now  we  are  out  of  the  pale  of  the  things 
that  are  here  below.     Yes,  we  are  sojourners 
even  now. 
Ver.  14.     "Unto  the  praise  of  His  glory.' ' 
This  he  adds  in  immediate  connection.     And 
why?    Because  it  would  serve  to  give  those  who 
heard  it  full  assurance.     Were  it  for  our  sake 
only,  he  means  to  say,  that  God  did  this,  there 
might  be  some  room  for  misgiving.     But  if  it  be 
for  His  own  sake,  and  in  order  to  display  His 
goodness,  he  assigns,  as  a  sort  of  witness,  a  rea- 
son why  these  things  never  possibly  could  be 
otherwise.     We  find  the  same  language  every- 
where applied  to  the  case  of  the  Israelites.    "Do 
Thou  this  for  us  for  Thy  Name's  sake ;  "  (Ps.  cix: 
21.)  and  again,  God  Himself  said,  "  I  doit  for 
Mine  own   sake;"    (Isa.    xlviii :   11.)   and   so 
Moses,  "  Do  it,  if  for  nothing  else,  yet  for  the 
glory  of  Thy  Name."     This  gives  those  who 
hear  it  full  assurance;  it  relieves  them  to  be 
told,  that  whatever  He  promises,  for  His  own 
goodness'  sake  He  will  most  surely  perform. 

Moral.  Let  not  the  hearing,  however,  make 
us  too  much  at  our  ease  ;  for  although  He  doth 
it  for  His  own  sake,  yet  notwithstanding  He 
requires  a  duty  on  our  part.  If  He  says,  "Them 
that  honor  Me  I  will  honor,  and  they  that  de- 
spise Me  shall  be  lightly  esteemed,"  ( 1  Sam.ii : 
30.)  let  us  reflect  that  there  is  that  which  He  re- 
quires of  us  also.  True,  it  is  the  praise  of  His 
glory  to  save  those  that  are  enemies,  but  those 
who,  after  being  made  friends,  continue  His 
friends.  So  that  if  they  were  to  return  back  to 
their  former  state  of  enmity,  all  were  vain  and 
to  no  purpose.  There  is  not  another  Baptism, 
nor  is  there  a  second  reconciliation  again,  but 
"  a  certain  fearful  expectation  of  judgment  which 
shall  devour  the  adversaries."  (Heb.  x:  27.) 
If  we  intend  at  the  same  time  to  be  always  at 
enmity  with  Him  and  yet  to  claim  forgiveness 
at  His  hand,  we  shall  never  cease  to  be  at  enmity, 
and  to  be  wanton,  to  grow  in  depravity,  and  to 
be  blind  to  the  Sun  of  Righteousness  which  has 
risen.  Dost  thou  not  see  the  ray  that  shall  open 
thine  eyes?  render  them  then  good  and  sound 
and  quicksighted.     He  hath  snowed  thee  the 


'["The  final  consummation  of  the  redemption  effected  by  the 
^W  of  Christ  (v.  7.)  at  the  Paromia  (Lu.  xxi  :  28.)  when  suffer- 
ing. *in  and  death  are  wholly  done  away  and  in  the  glorifying  of 
tl*  boly  there  sets  in  the  66£a  of  the  children  of  God,"— Meyer. 
-G.A.J 


true  light ;  if  thou  shunnest  it,  and  runnest  back 
again  into  the  darkness,  what  shall  be  thy  ex- 
cuse? What  sort  of  allowance  shall  be  made 
for  thee?  None  from  that  moment.  For  this 
is  a  mark  of  unspeakable  enmity.  When  indeed 
thou  knewest  not  God,  then  if  thou  wert  at 
enmity  with  Him,  thou  hadst,  be  it  how  it 
might,  some  excuse.  But  when  thou  hast  tasted 
the  goodness  and  the  honey,  if  thou  again 
abandonest  them,  and  turnest  to  thine  own 
vomit,  what  else  art  thou  doing  but  bringing 
forward  evidence  of  excessive  hatred  and  con- 
tempt? *  Nay,'  thou  wilt  say,  '  but  I  am  con- 
strained to  it  by  nature.  I  love  Christ  indeed, 
but  I  am  constrained  by  nature.'  If  thou  art 
under  the  power  and  force  of  constraint,  thou 
wilt  have  allowance  made ;  but  if  thou  yield 
from  indolence,  not  for  a  moment. 

Now  then,  come,  let  us  examine  this  very 
question,  whether  sins  are  the  effect  of  force 
and  constraint,  or  of  indolence  and  great  care- 
lessness. The  law  says,  "Thou  shalt  not  kill." 
What  sort  of  force,  what  sort  of  violence,  is 
there  here  ?  Violence  indeed  must  one  use  to 
force  himself  to  kill,  for  who  amongst  us  would 
as  a  matter  of  choice  plunge  his  sword  into  the 
throat  of  his  neighbor,  and  stain  his  hand  with 
blood  ?  Not  one.  Thou  seest  then  that,  on  the 
contrary,  sin  is  more  properly  matter  of  violence 
and  constraint.  For  God  hath  implanted  in 
our  nature  a  charm,  which  binds  us  to  love  one 
another.  "Every  beast  (it  saith)  loveth  his 
like,  and  every  man  loveth  his  neighbor." 
(Ecclus.  xiii. :  15.)  Seest  thou  that  we  have 
from  our  nature  seeds  which  tend  to  virtue; 
whereas  those  of  vice  are  contrary  to  nature  ? 
and  if  these  latter  predominate,  this  is  but  an 
evidence  of  our  exceeding  rhdolence. 

Again,  what  is  adultery?  What  sort  of  neces- 
sity is  there  to  bring  us  to  this?  Doubtless,  it 
will  be  said,  the  tyranny  of  lust.  But  why, 
tell  me,  should  this  be?  What,  is  it  not  in 
every  one's  power  to  have  his  own  wife,  and 
thus  to  put  a  stop  to  this  tyranny?  True,  he  will 
say,  but  a  sort  of  passion  for  my  neighbor's  wife 
seizes  hold  on  me.  Here  the  question  is  no 
longer  one  of  necessity.  Passion  is  no  matter 
of  necessity,  no  one  loves  of  necessity,  but  of 
deliberate  choice  and  free  will.  Indulgence  of 
nature,  indeed,  is  perhaps  matter  of  necessity, 
but  to  love  one  woman  rather  than  another  is 
no  matter  of  necessity.  Nor  is  the  point  with 
you  natural  desire,  but  vanity,  and  wantonness, 
aud  unbounded  licentiousness.  For  which  is 
according  to  reason,  that  a  man  should  have  an 
espoused  wife,  and  her  the  mother  of  his  chil- 
dren, or  one  not  acknowledged?  Know  ye  not 
that  it  is  intimacy  that  breeds  attachment.  This, 
therefore,  is  not  the  fault  of  nature.  Blame  not 
natural   desire.     Natural   desire   was   bestowed 


58 


WORKS  OF  ST.  CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  IL 


with  a  view  to  marriage ;  it  was  given  with  a 
view  to  the  procreation  of  children,  not  with  a 
view  to  adultery  and  corruption.  The  laws, 
too,  know  how  to  make  allowance  for  those  sins 
which  are  of  necessity, — or  rather  nothing  is 
sin  when  it  arises  from  necessity  but  all  sin  rises 
from  wantonness.  God  hath  not  so  framed 
man's  nature  as  that  he  should  have  any  neces- 
sity to  sin,  since  were  this  the  case,  there  would 
be  no  such  thing  as  punishment.  We  ourselves 
exact  no  account  of  things  done  of  necessity 
and  by  constraint,  much  less  would  God,  so  full 
of  mercy  and  loving-kindness. 

Again,  what  is  stealing?  is  it  matter  of  neces- 
sity? Yes,  a  man  will  say,  because  poverty 
causes  this.  Poverty,  however,  rather  compels 
us  to  work,  not  to  steal.  Poverty,  therefore,  has 
in  fact  the  contrary  effect.  Theft  is  the  effect 
of  idleness;  whereas  poverty  produces  usually 
not  idleness,  but  a  love  of  labor.  So  that  this 
sin  is  the  effect  of  indolence,  as  you  may  learn 
from  hence.  Which,  I  ask,  is  the  more  diffi- 
cult, the  more  distasteful-,  to  wander  about  at 
night  without  sleep,  to  break  open  houses,  and 
walk  about  in  the  dark,  and  to  have  one's  life  in 
one's  hand,  and  to  be  always  prepared  for  mur- 
der, and  to  be  shivering  and  dead  with  fear  ;  or 
to  be  attending  to  one's  daily  task,  in  full  enjoy- 
ment of  safety  and  security  ?  This  last  is  the 
easier  task  ;  and  it  is  because  this  is  easier,  that 
the  majority  practise  it  rather  than  the  other. 
Thou  seest  then  that  it  is  virtue  which  is  accord- 
ing to  nature,  and  vice  which  is  against  nature, 
in  the  same  way  as  disease  and  health  are. 

What,  again,  are  falsehood  and  perjury? 
What  necessity  can  they  possibly  imply  ?  None 
whatever,  nor  any  cqmpulsion ;  it  is  a  matter  to 
which  we  proceed  voluntarily.  We  are  dis- 
trusted, it  will  be  said.  True,  distrusted  we 
are,  because  we  choose  it.  For  we  might,  if  we 
would,  be  trusted  more  upon  our  character,  than 
upon  our  oath.  Why,  tell  me,  is  it  that  we  do 
not  trust  some,  no,  not  on  their  oath,  whilst  we 
deem  others  trustworthy  even  independently  of 
oaths.1  Seest  thou  that  there  is  no  need  of 
oaths  in  any  case?  *  When  such  an  one  speaks,' 
we  say,  '  I  believe  him,  even  without  any  oath, 
but  thee,  no,  not  with  thy  oaths.'  Thus  then 
an  oath  is  unnecessary;  and  is  in  fact  an  evi- 
dence rather  of  distrust  than  of  confidence. 
For  where  a  man  is  over  ready  to  take  his  oath, 
he  does  not  leave  us  to  entertain  any  great  idea 
of  his  scrupulousness.  So  that  the  man  who  is 
most  constant  in  his  use  of  oaths,  has  on  no  oc- 
casion any  necessity  for  using  one,  and  he  who 
never  uses  one  on  any  occasion,  has  in  himself 

1  Vid.  also  Horn,  ad  Pop.  Antioch.  vii.  fin.     However,  in  Act 
Apost.  Horn.   x.    fin.  he  considers  oaths  allowable  in  order  to  con- 
vince the  weak.     St.  Augustine  says  the  same,  de  Serm.  Dom.  i. 
51.  thus  accounting  for  St.  Paul's  expressions,  Rom.  i :  9.  1  Cor.  xv; 
31.  2  Cor.  ii :  31.  Gal.  i.  20. 


the  full  benefit  of  its  use.  Some  one  says  there 
is  a  necessity  for  an  oath,  to  produce  confi- 
dence; but  we  see  that  they  are  the  more 
readily  trusted  who  abstain  from  taking  oaths. 

But  again,  if  one  is  a  man  of  violence,  is  this 
a  matter  of  necessity?  Yes,  he  will  say,  be- 
cause his  passion  carries  him  away,  and  burns 
within  him,  and  does  not  let  the  soul  be  at  rest. 
Man,  to  act  with  violence  is  not  the  effect  of 
anger,  but  of  littleness  of  mind.  Were  it  the 
effect  of  anger,  all  men,  whenever  they  were 
angry,  would  never  cease  committing  acts  of 
violence.  We  have  anger  given  us,  not  that  we 
may  commit  acts  of  violence  on  our  neighbors, 
but  that  we  may  correct  those  that  are  in  sin, 
that  we  may  bestir  ourselves,  that  we  may  not 
be  sluggish.  Anger  is  implanted  in  us  as  a  sort 
of  sting,  to  make  us  gnash  with  our  teeth  against 
the  devil,  to  make  us  vehement  against  him,  not 
to  set  us  in  array  against  each  other.  We  have 
arms,  not  to  make  us  at  war  amongst  ourselves, 
but  that  we  may  employ  our  whole  armor 
against  the  enemy.  Art  thou  prone  to  anger  ? 
Be  so  against  thine  own  sins :  chastise  thy  soul, 
scourge  thy  conscience,  be  a  severe  judge,  and 
merciless  in  thy  sentence  against  thine  own  sins. 
This  is  the  way  to  turn  anger  to  account.  It 
was  for  this  that  God  implanted  it  within  us. 

But  again,  is  plunder  a  matter  of  necessity? 
No,  in  no  wise.  Tell  me,  what  manner  of  ne- 
cessity is  there  to  be  grasping :  what  manner  of 
compulsion?  Poverty,  a  man  will  say,  causes 
it,  and  the  fear  of  being  without  common  neces- 
saries. Now  this  is  the  very  reason  why  you 
ought  not  to  be  grasping.  Wealth  so  gotten  has 
no  security  in  it.  You  are  doing  the  very  same 
thing  as  a  man  would  do,  who,  if  he  were  asked 
why  he  laid  the  foundation  of  his  house  in  the 
sand,  should  say,  he  did  it  because  of  the  frost 
and  rain.  Whereas  this  would  be  the  very  reason 
why  he  should  not  lay  it  in  the  sand.  They  are 
the  very  foundations  which  the  rain,  and  blasts, 
and  wind,  most  quickly  overturn.  So  that  if 
thou  wouldest  be  wealthy,  never  be  rapacious ; 
if  thou  wouldest  transmit  wealth  to  thy  child- 
ren, get  righteous  wealth,  at  least,  if  any  there 
be  that  is  such.  Because  this  abides,  and  re- 
mains firm,  whereas  that  which  is  not  such, 
quickly  wastes  and  perishes.  Tell  me,  hast  thou 
a  mind  to  be  rich,  and  dost  thou  take  the  goods 
of  others?  Surely  this  is  not  wealth:  wealth 
consists  in  possessing  what  is  thine  own.  He 
that  is  in  possession  of  the  goods  of  others, 
never  can  be  a  wealthy  man  ;  since  at  that  rate 
even  your  very  silk  venders,  who  receive  their 
goods  as  a  consignment  from  others,  would  be 
the  wealthiest  and  the  richest  of  men.  Though 
for  the  time,  indeed,  it  is  theirs,  still  we  do  not 
call  them  wealthy.  And  why  forsooth?  Be- 
cause they  are  in  possession  of  what  belongs  to 


Homily  IIL] 


HOMILIES  ON  EPHESIANS. 


59 


others.  For  though  the  piece  itself  happens  to 
be  theirs,  still  the  money  it -is  worth  is  not  theirs. 
Nay,  and  even  if  the  money  is  in  their  hands, 
still  this  is  not  wealth.  Now,  if. consignments 
thus  given  render  not  men  more  wealthy  be- 
cause we  so  soon  resign  them,  how  can  those 
which  arise  from  rapine  render  them  wealthy? 
However,  if  at  any  rate  thou  desirest  to  be 
wealthy,  (for  the  matter  is  not  one  of  neces- 
sity,) what  greater  good  is  it  that  thou  wouldest 
fain  enjoy?  Is  it  a  longer  life?  Yet,  surely 
men  of  this  character  quickly  become  short- 
lived. Oftentimes  they  pay  as  the  penalty  of 
plunder  and  rapaciousness,  an  untimely  death; 
and  not  only  suffer  as  a  penalty  the  loss  of  the 
enjoyment  of  their  gains,  but  go  out  of  life  hav- 
ing gained  but  little,  and  hell  to  boot..  Often- 
times too  they  die  of  diseases,  which  are  the 
fruits  of  self-indulgence,  and  of  toil,  and  of 
anxiety.  Fain  would  I  understand  why  it  is 
that  wealth  is  so  eagerly  pursued  by  mankind. 
Why  surely  for  this  reason  hath  God  set  a  limit 
and  a  boundary  to  our  nature,  that  we  may  have 
no  need  to  go  on  seeking  wealth  beyond  it. 
For  instance  He  hath  commanded  us,  to  clothe 
the  body  in  one,  or  perhaps  in  two  garments ; 
and  there  is  no  need  of  any  more  to  cover  us. 


Where  is  the  good  of  ten  thousand  changes  of 
raiment,  and  those  moth-eaten?  The  stomach 
has  its  appointed  bound,  and  any  thing  given 
beyond  this,  will  of  necessity  destroy  the  whole 
man.  Where  then  is  the  use  of  your  herds,  and 
flocks,  and  cutting  up  of  flesh?  We  require 
but  one  roof  to  shelter  us.  Where  then  is  the 
use  of  your  vast  ground-plots,  and  costly  build- 
ings ?  Dost  thou  strip  the  poor,  that  vultures 
and  jackdaws  may  have  where  to  dwell  ?  And 
what  a  hell  do  not  these  things  deserve  ?  Many 
are  frequently  raising  edifices  that  glisten  with 
pillars  and  costly  marbles,  in  places  which  they 
never  so  much  as  saw.  What  scheme  is  there 
indeed  that  they  have  not  adopted  ?  Yet  neither 
themselves  reap  the  benefit,  nor  any  one  else. 
The  desolateness  does  not  allow  them  to  get 
away  thither ;  and  yet  not  even  thus  do  they  de- 
sist. You  see  that  these  things  are  not  done  for 
profit' s-sake,  but  in  all  these  cases  folly,  and  ab- 
surdity, and  vainglory,  is  the  motive.  And 
this,  I  beseech  you  to  avoid,  that  we  may  be 
enabled  to  avoid  also  every  other  evil,  and  may 
obtain  those  good  things  which  are  promised  to 
them  that  love  Him,  in  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ, 
with  whom  to  the  Father,  together  with  the  Holy 
Ghost,  be  glory,  strength,  honor  forever.  Amen. 


HOMILY  III. 


VERSES.    I5-20. 


"For  this  cause  I  also,  having  heard  of  the  faith  in 
the  Lord  Jesus,  which  is  among  you,  and  which 
ye  show  toward  all  the  saints,  cease  not  to  give 
thanks  for  you,  making  mention  of  you  in  my 
prayers ;  that  the  God  of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  the 
Father  of  glory,  may  give  unto  you  a  spirit  of  wis- 
dom and  revelation  in  the  knowledge  of  Him :  hav- 
ing the  eyes  of  your  heart  enlightened ;  that  ye  may 
know  what  is  the  hope  of  His  calling,  what  the  riches 
of  the  glory  of  His  inheritance  in  the  saints,  and 
what  the  exceeding  greatness  of  His  power  tous-ward 
who  believe,  according  to  that  working  of  the  strength 
of  His  might,  which  He  wrought  in  Christ,  when 
He  raised  Him  from  the  dead." 

Never  was  anything  equal  to  the  yearnings 
of  the  Apostle,  never  anything  like  the  sympa- 
thy and  the  affectionateness  of  the  blessed  Paul, 
who  made  his  every  prayer  in  behalf  of  whole 
cities  and  peoples,  and  writes  the  same  to  all,1 
"I  thank  my  God  for  you,  making  mention  of 
you  in  my  prayers."  Think  how  many  he  had 
in  his  mind,  whom  it  were  a  labor  so  much  as 
to  remember  ;   how  many  he  made  mention  of  in 

1  [Ro.  i.  9 ;  1  Cor.  1. 4  ;  Phil.  i.  3, 4 ;  Col.  i.  3 ;  1  Thes.  i.  2.— G.  A.] 


his  prayers,  giving  thanks  to  God  for  them  all 
as  though  he  himself  had  received  the  greatest 
blessing. 

"  Wherefore,"  he  says,  i.  e.,  because  of  what 
is  to  come,2  because  of  the  good  things  that  are 
laid  up  in  store  for  them  who  rightly  believe 
and  live.  And  it  is  meet  then  to  give  thanks  to 
God  both  for  all  the  things  which  mankind  have 
received  at  His  hands,  both  heretofore  and  here- 
after ;  and  meet  to  give  Him  thanks  also  for  the 
faith  of  them  that  believe. 

"  Having  heard/'  saith  he,  "  of  the  faith  in 
the  Lord  Jesus  which  is  among  you,  and  which 
ye  show3  toward  all  the  saints.' ' 

He  on  all  occasions  knits  together  and  com- 
bines faith  and  love,  a  glorious  pair ;  nor  does 
he  mention  the  saints  of  that  country  only,  but  all. 

a  ["On  the  contrary  this  'wherefore,'  Aid  tovto,  refers  to  what 
precedes  ver.  13,  14,  *  because  this  is  the  case  that  ye  too  are  in 
Christ  and  have  been  sealed  with  the  Spirit.'  So  Theophylect." — 
Meyer.— G.  A] 

3  [The  word  *  love,'  ayairt)v,  which  gets  into  the  Auth.  Ver,  from 
some  inferior  MSS.,  is  omitted  by  Aleph.  A.  B.  W.  and  H.  Rev. 
Vers.  cf.  Col.  i:  4.— G.  A.] 


6o 


WORKS  OF  ST.  CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  III, 


"  I  cease  not  to  give  thanks  for  you,  making 
mention  of  you  in  my  prayers." 

What  is  thy  prayer,  and  what  thy  entreaty? 
It  is 

"  That  the  God  of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  the 
Father  of  glory,  may  give  unto  you  a  spirit  of 
wisdom  and  revelation."  *  Two  things  he  re- 
quires them  to  understand,  as  it  is  their  duty  to 
understand  them;  to  what  blessings  they  are 
called,  and  how  they  have  been  released  from 
their  former  state.  He  says,  however,  himself, 
that  these  points  are  three.  How  then  are  they 
three  ?  In  order  that  we  may  understand  touch- 
ing the  things  to  come ;  for  from  the  good  things 
laid  up  for  us,  we  shall  know  His  ineffable  and 
surpassing  riches,  and  from  understanding  who 
we  were,  and  how^  we  believed,  we  shall  know 
His  power  and  sovereignty,  in  turning  again  to 
Himself  those  who  had  been  so  long  time 
estranged  from  Him.  "  For  the  weakness  of 
God  is  stronger  than  men."  (i  Cor.  i:  25.) 
Inasmuch  as  it  is  by  the  self-same  power  by 
which  He  raised  Christ  from  the  dead,  that  He 
hath  also  drawn  us  to  Himself.  Nor  is  that 
power  limited  to  the  resurrection,  but  far 
exceeds  it. 

Ver.  21,  22.  "And  made  Him  to  sit  at  His 
right  hand,  in  the  Heavenly  places,  far  above 
all  rule  and  authority,  and  power  and  dominion, 
and  every  name  that  is  named :  and  He  put  all 
things  in  subjection  under  His  feet,  and  gave 
Him  to  be  Head  over  all  things  to  the  Church, 
which  is  His  body,  the  fulness  of  Him  that  fill- 
ethallinall." 

Vast  indeed  are  the  mysteries  and  secrets  of 
which  He  hath  made  us  partakers.  And  these 
it  is  not  possible  for  us  to  understand  other- 
wise than  by  being  partakers  of  the  Holy 
Ghost,  and  by  receiving  abundant  grace.  And 
it  is  for  this  reason  that  Paul  prays.  "The 
Father  of  glory,"  that  is,  He  that  hath  given  us 
vast  blessings,  for  he  constantly  addresses  Him 
according  to  the  subject  he  is  upon,  as,  for 
instance,  when  he  says,  "  The  Father  of  mercies 
and  God  of  all  comfort."  (2  Cor.  i:  3.)  And, 
again,  the  Prophet  says,  "The  Lord  is  my 
strength  and  my  might."  (Ps.  xviii :  1.) 

"The  Father  of  glory." 

He  has  no  name  by  which  he  may  represent 
these  things,  and  on  all  occasions  calls  them 
'f  glory,"  which  is  in  fact,  with  us,  the  name 
and  appellation  of  every  kind  of  magnificence. 
Mark,  he  says,  the  Father  of  glory ;  (cf.  Acts  vii: 
2)    but  of  Christ  the  God.2     What  then?     Is 


There  are  "  imperfections  in  their  composition  which  in  the  opinion 
of  some  critics  argued  the  absence  of  that  comparative  leisure 
which  he  enjoyed  at  Antioch."  SchafF  also  says:  "His  life  in 
Constantinople  was  too  much  disturbed  to  leave  him  quiet  leisure 
for  preparation."  This,  however,  in  referring  to  his  Homilies  on 
Acts.  ProU'gomtna  p.  19. — G.  A.j 


the  Son  inferior  to  the  glory  ?     No,  there  is  no 
one,  not  even  a  maniac,  would  say  so. 

"  May  give  unto  you," 

That  is,  may  raise  and  wing  your  understand- 
ing, for  it  is  not  possible  otherwise  to  under- 
stand these  things.  "For  the  natural  man 
receiveth  not  the  things  of  the  Spirit  of  God  ; 
for  they  are  foolishness  unto  him."  (i  Cor.  ii: 
1 4.)  So  then,  there  is  need  of  spiritual  "wis- 
dom," that  we  may  perceive  things  spiritual,  that 
we  may  see  things  hidden.  That  Spirit ' '  reveal- 
eth"  all  things.  He  is  going  to  set  forth  the 
mysteries  of  God.  Now  the  knowledge  of  the 
mysteries  of  God,  the  Spirit  alone  comprehends, 
who  also  searcheth  the  deep  things  of  Him.  It 
is  not  said  ,  "  that  Angel,  or  Archangel,  or  any 
other  created  power,  may  give/'  that  is,  confer 
upon  you  a  spiritual  gift.  And  if  this  be  of 
revelation,  then  is  the  discovery  of  arguments 
consequently  vain.  For  he  that  hath  learned 
God,  and  knoweth  God,  shall  no  longer  dispute 
concerning  any  thing.  He  will  not  say,  This  is 
impossible,  and  That  is  possible,  and  How  did 
the  other  thing  come  to  pass?  If  we  learn  God, 
as  we  ought  to  know  Him ;  if  we  learn  God 
from  Him  from  whom  we  ought  to  learn  Him, 
that  is  from  the  Spirit  Himself;  then  shall  we 
no  longer  dispute  concerning  any  thing.  And 
hence  it  is  that  he  says, 

"  Having  the  eyes  of  your  heart  enlightened 
in  the  knowledge  of  Him."  s 

He  that  hath  learned  what  God  is,  will  have 
no  misgiving  about  His  promises,  and  disbelief 
about  what  hath  been  already  brought  to  pass. 
He  prays,  then,  that  there  may  be  given  them 
"  a  spirit  of  wisdom  and  revelation."  Yet  still 
he  also  establishes  it,  as  far  as  he  can  himself, 
by  arguments,  and  from  "already"  existing 
facts.  For,  whereas  he  was  about  to  mention 
some  things  which  had  already  come  to  pass, 
and  others  which  had  not  as  yet  happened  ;  he 
makes  those  which  have  been  brought  to  pass,  a 
pledge  of  those  which  have  not :  in  some  such 
way,  I  mean,  as  this, 

"That  ye  may  know,"  saith  he,  "  what  is  the 
hope  of  His  calling." 

It  is  as  yet,  he  means,  hidden,  but  not  so  to 
the  faithful. 

"And,"  again,  "what  is  the  riches  of  the 
glory  of  His  inheritance  in  the  saints."4 

9  [Compare  Mat.  xxvii.  a6  ;  John  xx :  17 ;  Rev.  iff :  13. — G.  A.] 
'  ["  The  words.  '  in  the  knowledge  of  Him,'  ivint  yvo*<r*i  adrov, 
are  not  to  be  joined  with  the  words  *  having  your  heart  enlightened/ 
as  Chrysostom  here,  which  entirely  destroys  the  paralellism  and 
symmetry  of  the  sentence,  but  with  the  words,  may  give  you  a 
spirit  of  wisdom,  etc.,  (in  the  knowledge  of  Him)." — Meyer  and 
Ellicott.— G.  A.] 

4  ["  That  ye  may  know  what  a  great  and  glorious  hope  is  given 
to  the  man  whom  God  has  called  to  the  Kingdom  of  the  Messiah  ; 
and  that  ye  may  know  what  is  the  object  of  that  hope,  namely,  the 
riches  of  the  glory  of  the  inheritance  which  He  gives;  and  that  yo 
may  know  that  by  which  this  hope  is  to  be  realized,  namely,  the 
infinite  power  of  God  as  shown  in  the  resurrection  and  exaltation 
of  Jesus  Christ."— Meyer  —  G.  A.J 


Homily  I II.  J 


HOMILIES  ON  EPHESIANS. 


61 


This  too  is  as  yet  hidden. 
But  what  is  clear?  that  through  His  power 
we  have  believed  that  He  hath  raised  Christ. 
For  to  persuade  souls,  is  a  thing  far  more 
miraculous  than  to  raise  a  dead  body.  I  will 
endeavor  to  make  this  clear.  Hearken  then. 
Christ  said  to  the  dead,  "  Lazarus,  come  forth," 
(John  xi:  43.)  and  straightway  he  obeyed. 
Peter  said,  "Tabitha,  arise/'  (Acts  ix:  40.) 
and  she  did  not  refuse.  He  Himself  shall  speak 
the  word  at  the  last  day,  and  all  shall  rise,  and 
that  so  quickly,  that  "  they  which  are  yet  alive, 
shall  in  no  wise  precede  them  that  are  fallen 
asleep,"  (1  Thess.  iv:  15.)  and  all  shall  come  to 
pass,  all  run  together  ' '  in  a  moment,  in  the  twink- 
ling of  an  eye."  (1  Cor.  xv :  52.)  But  in  the 
matter  of  believing,  it  is  not  thus,  but  how  is  it  ? 
Hearken  then  to  Him  again,  how  He  saith, 
"  How  often  would  I  have  gathered  thy  chil- 
dren together,  and  ye  would  not."  (Matt,  xxiii: 
37.)  You  perceive  that  this  last  is  the  more  dif- 
ficult. Accordingly,  it  is  upon  this  that  he 
builds  up  the  whole  argument;  because  by 
human  calculations  it  is  far  more  difficult  to 
influence  the  choice,  than  to  work  upon  nature. 
And  the  reason  is  this,  it  is  because  He  would 
thus  have  us  become  good  of  our  own  will. 
Thus  with  good  reason  does  he  say,1 

"The  exceeding  greatness  of  His  power  to 
us-ward  who  believe." 

Yes,  when  Prophets  had  availed  nothing,  nor 
Angels,  nor  Archangels,  when  the  whole  crea- 
tion, both  visible  and  invisible,  had  failed, 
(the  visible  lying  before  us,  and  without  any 
power  to  guide  us,  and  much  also  which  is 
invisible,)  then  He  ordered  His  own  coming, 
to  show  us  that  it  was  a  matter  which  required 
Divine  power. 
11  The  riches  of  the  glory," 
That  is,  the  unutterable  glory ;  for  what  lan- 
guage shall  be  adequate  to  express  that  glory  of 
which  the  saints  shall  then  be  partakers  ?  None. 
But  verily  there  is  need  of  grace  in  order  that 
the  understanding  may  perceive  it,  and  admit 
even  so  much  as  at  least  one  little  ray.  Some 
things  indeed  they  knew  even  before ;  now  he 
was  desirous  that  they  should  learn  more,  and 
know  it  more  clearly.  Seest  thou  how  great 
things  He  hath  wrought  ?  He  hath  raised  up 
Christ.  Is  this  a  small  thing  ?  But  look  again. 
He  hath  set  Him  at  His  right  hand.  And  shall 
any  language  then  be  able  to  represent  this? 
Him  that  is  of  the  earth,  more  mute  than  the 
fishes,  and  made  the  sport  of  devils,  He  hath  in 
a  moment  raised  up  on  high.  Truly  this  is 
indeed  the  "  exceeding  greatness  of  His  power." 
And  behold,  whither  He  hath  raised  Him. 
"  In  the  heavenly  places ;  " 


1  • 


Extfrraf. 


He  hath  made  Him  far  above  all  created 
nature,  far  above  all  rule  and  authority. 

"  Far  above  all  rule,"  he  saith. 

Need  then  indeed  is  there  of  the  Spirit,  of  an 
understanding  wise  in  the  knowledge  of  Him. 
Need  then  is  there  indeed  of  revelation.  Reflect, 
how  vast  is  the  distance  between  the  nature  of 
man  and  of  God.  Yet  from  this  vile  estate  hath 
He  exalted  Him  to  that  high  dignity.  Nor  does 
He  mount  by  degrees,  first  one  step,  then 
another,  then  a  third.  Amazing  !  He  does  not 
simply  say,  "above,"  but,  "far  above;"  for 
God  is  above  those  powers  which  are  above. 
And  thither  then  hath  He  raised  Him,  Him  that 
is  one  of  us,  brought  Him  from  the  lowest  point 
to  the  supremest  sovereignty,  to  that  beyond 
which  there  is  no  other  honor.  Above  "  all  " 
principality,  he  says,  not,  i.  e. ,  over  one  and  not 
over  another,  but  over  all, 

4 '  Rule  and  authority  and  power,  and  domin- 
ion, and  every  name  that  is  named." 

Whatever  there  be  in  Heaven,  He  has 
become  above  all.  And  this  is  said  of  Him  that 
was  raised  from  the  dead  which  is  worthy  of 
our  admiration ;  for  of  God  the  Word,  it  can- 
not possibly  be,  because  what  insects  are  in 
comparison  of  man,  this  the  whole  creation  is 
in  comparison  of  God.  If  all  mankind  are  to 
be  counted  as  spittle  and  were  counted  as  the 
turn  of  a  balance,  consider  the  invisible  powers 
as  insects.  But  of  Him  that  was  one  of  us, 
this  is  great  and  surprising  indeed.  For  He 
raised  Him  up  from  the  very  lowest  parts  of  the 
earth.  If  all  the  nations  are  as  a  drop,  how 
small  a  portion  then  of  that  drop  is  a  single 
man  !  Yet  Him  hath  He  made  higher  than  all 
things,  "not  only  in  this  world,  but  also  in 
that  which  is  to  come."  Therefore  powers  there 
are  whose  names  are  to  us  unintelligible,  and 
unknown. 

"  And  He  put  all  things  in  subjection  under 
His  feet." 

Not  simply  so  set  Him  above  them  as  to  be 
honored  above  them,  nor  by  way  of  comparison 
with  them,  but  so  that  He  should  sit  over  them 
as  His  slaves.  Amazing !  Awful  indeed  are 
these  things ;  every  created  power  hath  been 
made  the  slave  of  man  by  reason  of  God  the 
Word  dwelling  in  Him.2  For  it  is  possible  for 
a  man  to  be  above  others,  without  having  others 
in  subjection,  but  only  as  preferred  before  them. 
But  here  it  is  not  so.  No,  "He  put  all  things 
in  subjection  under  His  feet."  And  not  simply 
put  them  in  subjection,  but  in  the  most  abject 


9  AiA  rbv  ivoiKovvra  Btbv  AiJyoi'.  The  *  inhabitation '  of  the 
Word  in  our  flesh,  was  a  favorite  form  of  speech  with  the  Nestor- 
ians,  who  thereby  insinuated  that  the  Word  dwelt  in  '  a '  man,  or 
denied  Christ's  unity  of  person.  Yet  the  phrase  is  strictly  ortho- 
dox, as  being  derived  from  John  i  :  14,  and  is  especially  maintained 
by  Cyril,  the  antagonist  of  Nestorius,  in  order  to  denote  that  God 
was  in  human  '  nature,'  vid.  Cyril  in  Schoi.  25.  Theodor.  Eran. 
U,  Ephraem.  Antioch.  apud  Phot.  329. 


62 


WORKS  OF  ST.  CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  III. 


subjection,  that  below  which  there  can  be  none. 
Therefore  he  adds,  "under  His  feet." 

"  And  gave  Him  to  be  Head  over  all  things 
to  the  Church." 

Amazing  again,  whither  hath  He  raised  the 
Church?  as  though  he  were  lifting  it  up  by 
some  engine,  he  hath  raised  it  up  to  a  vast 
height,  and  set  it  on  yonder  throne ;  for  where 
the  Head  is,  there  is  the  body  also.  There  is 
no  interval  to  separate  between  the  Head  and 
the  body;  for  were  there  a  separation,  then 
were  it  no  longer  a  body,  then  were  it  no  longer 
a  head.  "  Over  all  things,"  he  says.  What  is 
meant  by  "  over  all  things?  "  He  hath  suffered 
neither  Angel  nor  Archangel  nor  any  other 
being  to  be  above  Him.  But  not  only  in  this 
way  hath  He  honored  us,  in  exalting  that  which 
is  of  ourselves,  but  also  in  that  He  hath  pre- 
pared the  whole  race  in  common  to  follow  Him, 
to  cling  to  Him,  to  accompany  His  train. 

"Which  is  His  body." 

In  order  then  that  when  you  hear  of  the  Head 
you  may  not  conceive  the  notion  of  supremacy 
only,  but  also  of  consolidation,  and  that  you 
may  behold  Him  not  as  supreme  Ruler  only,  but 
as  Head  of  a  body. 

"  The  fulness  of  Him  that  filleth  all  in  all " 
he  says. 

As  though  this  were  not  sufficient  to  show  the 
close  connection  and  relationship,  what  does  he 
add?  "  The  fullness  of  Christ  is  the  Church." 
And  rightly,  for  the  complement  of  the  head  is 
the  body,  and  the  complement  of  the  body  is 
the  head.  Mark  what  great  arrangement  Paul 
observes,  how  he  spares  not  a  single  word,  that 
he  may  represent  the  glory  of  God.  "The 
complement,"  he  says,  i.  e.,  the  head  is,  as  it 
were,  filled  up  by  the  body,  because  the  body 
is  composed  and  made  up  of  all  its  several  parts, 
and  he  introduces  Him  as  having  need  of  each 
single  one  and  not  only  of  all  in  common  and 
together ;  for  unless  we  be  many,  and  one  be 
the  hand,  and  another  the  foot,  and  another 
some  other  member,  the  whole  body  is  not  filled 
up.  It  is  by  all  then  that  His  body  is  filled  up. 
Then  is  the  head  filled  up,  then  is  the  body 
rendered  perfect,  when  we  are  all  knit  together 
and  united.  Perceivest  thou  then  the  "  riches 
of  the  glory  of  His  inheritance?  the  exceeding 
greatness  of  His  power  towards  them  that  be- 
lieve? the  hope  of  your  calling?  " 

Moral.  Let  us  reverence  our  Head,  let  us 
reflect  of  what  a  Head  we  are  the  bodv, — a 
Head,  to  whom  all  things  are  put  in  subjection. 
According  to  this  representation  we  ought  to  be 
better,  yea,  than  the  very  angels,  and  greater 
than  the  Archangels,  in  that  we  have  been  hon- 
ored above  them  all.  God  "took  not  hold  of 
Angels,"  as  he  says  in  writing  to  the  Hebrews, 
' '  but  He  took  hold  of  the  seed  of  Abraham. ' ' 


(Heb.  ii :  16.)  He  took  hold  of  neither  princi- 
pality, nor  power,  nor  dominion,  nor  any  other 
authority,  but  He  took  up  our  nature,  and  made 
it  to  sit  on  His  right  hand.  And  why  do  I  say, 
hath  made  it  sit  ?  He  hath  made  it  His  gar- 
ment1, and  not  only  so,  but  hath  put  all  things 
in  subjection  under  His  feet.  How  many  sorts 
of  death  supposest  thou?  How  many  souls? 
ten  thousand?  yea,  and  ten  thousand  times 
told,  but  nothing  equal  to  it  wilt  thou  mention. 
Two  things  He  hath  done,  the  greatest  things. 
He  hath  both  Himself  descended  to  the  lowest 
depth  of  humiliation,  and  hath  raised  up  man 
to  the  height  of  exaltation.  He  saved  him  by 
His  blood.  He  spoke  of  the  former  first,  how 
that  He  so  greatly  humbled  Himself.  He 
speaks  now  of  what  is  stronger  than  that — a 
great  thing,  the  crown  of  all.  Surely,  even 
had  we  been  counted  worthy  of  nothing,  it 
were  enough.  Or,  had  we  been  counted  worthy 
even  of  this  honor,  it  were  enough,  without  the 
slaying  of  the  Son.  But  where  there  are  the 
two,  what  power  of  language  must  it  not  trans- 
cend and  surpass?  The  very  resurrection  is 
not  great,  when  I  reflect  on  these  things.  It  is 
of  Him  that  he  says,  *  *  The  God  of  our  Lord 
Jesus  Christ,"  not  of  God  the  Word. 

Let  us  feel  awed  at  the  closeness  of  our  rela- 
tion, let  us  dread  lest  any  one  should  be  cut  off 
from  this  body,  lest  any  one  should  fall  from  it, 
lest  any  one  should  appear  unworthy  of  it.  If 
any  one  were  to  place  a  diadem  about  our  head, 
a  crown  of  gold,  should  we  not  do  every  thing 
that  we  might  seem  worthy  of  the  lifeless 
jewels?  But  now  it  is  not  a  diadem  that  is 
placed  about  our  head,  but,  what  is  far  greater, 
Christ  is  made  our  very  Head,  and  yet  we  pay 
no  regard  to  it.  Yet  Angels  reverence  that 
Head,  and  Archangels,  and  all  those  powers 
above.  And  shall  we,  which  are  His  body,  be 
awed  neither  on  the  one  account  nor  the  other  ? 
And  what  then  shall  be  our  hope  of  salvation  ? 
Conceive  to  yourself  the  royal  throne,  conceive 
the  excess  of  the  honor.  This,  at  least  if  we 
chose,  might  more  avail  to  startle  us,  yea,  even 
than  hell  itself.  For,  even  though  hell  were 
not,  that  we  having  been  honored  with  such  an 
honor,  should  be  found  base  and  unworthy  of 
it,  what  punishment,  what  vengeance  must  not 
this  carry  with  it  ?  Think  near  whom  thy  Head 
is  seated,  (this  single  consideration  is  amply 
sufficient  for  any  purpose  whatever,)  on  whose 
right  hand  He  is  placed,  far  above  all  princi- 
pality, and  power,  and  might.  Yet  is  the  body 
of  this  Head  trampled  on  by  the  very  devils. 

1  'Ifidriov.  Thus  Cyril  Alex,  speaks  of  Christ  as  '  clothed  about  * 
with  our  nature.  In  Success.  2  p.  142.  Vid.  also  Epiph.  Ancor. 
§.  95.  Augustine  in  Psalm  130.  10.  This,  as  well  as  other  theo- 
logical terms,  was  abused  by  heretical  disputants ;  as  if  it  implied 
either  that  the  manhood  of  Christ  might  be  put  off  from  His  divine 
nature,  or  that  it  was  a  mere  accidental  and  unsubstantial  medium 
of  manifesting  it. 


Homily  III.] 


HOMILIES  ON  EPHESIANS. 


63 


Nay,  God  forbid  it  should  be  thus ;  for  were  it 
thus,  such  a  body  could  be  His  body  no  longer. 
Thy  own  head  the  more  respectable  of  thy  serv- 
ants reverence,  and  dost  thou  subject  thy  body 
to  be  the  sport  of  them  that  insult  it?  How 
sore  punishment  then  shalt  thou  not  deserve  ? 
If  a  man  should  bind  the  feet  of  the  emperor 
with  bonds  and  fetters,  will  he  not  be  liable  to 
the  extremity  of  punishment?  Dost  thou  ex- 
pose the  whole  body  to  fierce  monsters,  and  not 
shudder  ? 

However,  since  our  discourse  is  concerning 
the  Lord's  body,  come,  and  let  us  turn  our 
thoughts  to  it,  even  that  which  was  crucified, 
which  was  nailed,  which  is  sacrificed.1  If  thou 
art  the  body  of  Christ,  bear  the  Cross,  for  He 
bore  it :  bear  spitting,  bear  buffetings,  bear 
nails.  Such  was  that  Body  ;  that  Body  "did  no 
sin,  neither  was  guile  found  in  His  mouth."  (1 
Pet.  ii:  22.)  His  hands  did  every  thing  for  the 
benefit  of  them  that  needed,  His  mouth  uttered 
not  a  word  of  those  things  which  are  not  con- 
venient. He  heard  them  say,  "Thou  hast  a 
devil,"  and  He  answered  nothing. 

Further,  our  discourse  is  concerning  this 
Body,  and  as  many  of  us  as  partake  of  that 
Body  and  taste  of  that  Blood,  are  partaking  of 
that  which  is  in  no  wise  different  from  that 
Body,  nor  separate.  Consider  that  we  taste  of 
that  Body  that  sitteth  above,  that  is  adored  by 
Angels,  that  is  next  to  the  Power  that  is  incor- 
ruptible. Alas  !  how  many  ways  to  salvation 
are  open  to  us  !  He  hath  made  us  His  own 
body,  He  hath  imparted  to  us  His  own  body, 
and  yet  not  one  of  these  things  turns  us  away 
from  what  is  evil.  Oh  the  darkness,  the  depth 
of  the  abyss,  the  apathy  !  "  Set  your  mind," 
saith  he,  "on  the  things  that  are  above,  where 
Christ  is,  seated  on  the  right  hand  of  God." 
(Col.  iii :  1.)  And  after  all  this,  some  set  their 
affections  upon  money,  or  licentiousness,  others 
are  carried  captive  by  their  passions  ! 

Do  ye  not  see,  that  even  in  our  own  body, 
when  any  part  is  superfluous  and  useless,  it  is 
cut  off,  is  cut  away  ?  It  is  of  no  use  that  it  has 
belonged  to  the  body,  when  it  is  mutilated, 
when  it  is  mortified,  when  it  is  decayed,  when 
it  is  detrimental  to  the  rest.  Let  us  not  then 
be  too  confident,  because  we  have  been  once 
made  members  of  this  body.  If  this  body  of 
ours,  though  but  a  natural  body,  nevertheless 
suffers  amputation,  what  dreadful  evil  shall  it 
not  undergo,  if  the  moral  principle  should  fail  ? 
When  the  body  partakes  not  of  this  natural 
food,  when  the  pores  are  stopped  up,  then  it 
mortifies;  when  the  ducts  are  closed,  then  it  is 
palsied.  So  is  it  with  us  also,  when  we  stop 
our  ears,  our  soul  becomes  palsied ;  when  we 
partake  not  of  the  spiritual  food,  when,  instead 

1  dvoplrov. 


of  corrupt  bodily  humors,  evil  dispositions  impair 
us,  all  these  things  engender  disease,  dangerous 
disease,  disease  that  wastes.  And  then  there 
will  be  need  of  that  fire,  there  will  be  need  of 
that  cutting  asunder.  For  Christ  cannot  endure 
that  we  should  enter  into  the  bride-chaml>er 
with  such  a  body  as  this.  If  He  led  away,  and 
cast  out  the  man  that  was  clothed  in  filthy  gar- 
ments, what  will  He  not  do  unto  the  man  who 
attaches  filth  to  the  body ;  how  will  He  not  dis- 
pose of  him  ? 

I  observe  many  partaking  of  Christ's  Body 
lightly  and  just  as  it  happens,  and  rather  from 
custom  and  form,  than  consideration  and  under- 
standing. When,  saith  a  man,  the  holy  season 
of  Lent  sets  in,  whatever  a  man  may  be,  he 
partakes  of  the  mysteries,  or,  when  the  day  of 
the  Lord's  Epiphany2  comes.  And  yet  it  is  not 
the  Epiphany,  nor  is  it  Lent,  that  makes  a  fit 
time  for  approaching,  but  it  is  sincerity  and 
purity  of  soul.  With  this,  approach  at  all  times; 
without  it,  never.  "  For  as  often,"  (1  Cor.  xi : 
26.)  saith  he,  "as  ye  do  this,  ye  proclaim  the 
Lord's  death,"  i.  e.,  "ye  make  a  remembrance 
of  the  salvation  that  has  been  wrought  for  you, 
and  of  the  benefits  which  I  have  bestowed." 
Consider  those  who  partook  of  the  sacrifices 
under  the  old  Covenant,  how  great  abstinence 
did  they  practise  ?  How  did  they  not  conduct 
themselves?  What  did  they  not  perform? 
They  were  always  purifying  themselves.  And 
dost  thou,  when  thou  drawest  nigh  to  a  sacri- 
fice, at  which  the  very  Angels  tremble,  dost 
thou  measure  the  matter  by  the  revolutions  of 
seasons  ?  and  how  shalt  thou  present  thyself  be- 
fore the  judgment-seat  of  Christ,  thou  who  pre- 
sumest  upon  His  body  with  polluted  hands  and 
lips  ?  Thou  wouldest  not  presume  to  kiss  a 
king  with  an  unclean  mouth,  and  the  King  of 
heaven  dost  thou  kiss  with  an  unclean  soul  ?  It 
is  an  outrage.  Tell  me,  wouldest  thou  choose 
to  come  to  the  Sacrifice  with  unwashen  hands  ? 
No,  I  suppose,  not.  But  thou  wouldest  rather 
choose  not  to  come  at  all,  than  come  with  soiled 
hands.  And  then,  thus  scrupulous  as  thou  art 
in  this  little  matter,  dost  thou  come  with  soiled 
soul,  and  thus  dare  to  touch  it?  And  yet  the 
hands  hold  it  but  for  a  time,  whereas  into  the 
soul  it  is  dissolved  entirely.  What,  do  ye  not 
see  the  holy  vessels  so  thoroughly  cleansed  all 
over,  so  resplendent  ?  Our  souls  ought  to  be 
purer  than  they,  more  holy,  more  brilliant.  And 
why  so  ?  Because  those  vessels  are  made  so  for 
our  sakes.  They  partake  not  of  Him  that  is  in 
them,  they  perceive  Him  not.     But  we  do ; — 

a  This  was  the  great  festival  of  the  Greek  Church,  being  in  re- 
membrance of  our  Lord's  Baptism,  and,  as  it  would  appear,  of 
His  birth  inclusively.  The  festival  of  Christmas,  which  had  been 
in  use  in  the  West  from  an  earlier  date,  was  introduced  at  Antioch 
A.  D.  376.  with  much  opposition.  Chrysostom,  A.  D.  387,  ur^cs 
its  due  celebration  in  his  Horn,  de  Bcato  Phihgon.  and  Set  n.  in 
Diem  Natal.  J.  C. 


64 


WORKS  OF  ST.  CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  IIL 


yes,  verily.  Now  then,  thou  wouldest  not 
choose  to  make  use  of  a  soiled  vessel,  and  dost 
thou  approach  with  a  soiled  soul?  Observe  the 
vast  inconsistency  of  the  thing.  At  the  other 
times  ye  come  not,  no,  not  though  often  ye  are 
clean ;  but  at  Easter,  however  flagrant  an  act 
ye  may  have  committed,  ye  come.  Oh !  the 
force  of  custom  and  of  prejudice  !  In  vain  is 
the  daily  Sacrifice,1  in  vain  do  we  stand  before 
the  Altar  ;  there  is  no  one  to  partake.  These 
things  I  am  saying,  not  to  induce  you  to  par- 
take any  how,  but  that  ye  should  render  your- 
selves worthy  to  partake.  Art  thou  not  worthy 
of  the  Sacrifice,  nor  pf  the  participation  ?  If 
so,  then  neither  art  thou  of  the  prayer.  Thou 
nearest  the  herald,*  standing,  and  saying,  "  As 
many  as  are  in  penitence,  all  pray."3  As  many 
as  do  not  partake,  are  in  penitence.  If  thou 
art  one  of  those  that  are  in  penitence,  thou 
oughtest  not  to  partake ;  for  he  that  partakes 
not,  is  one  of  those  that  are  in  penitence.  Why 
then  does  he  say,  "Depart,  ye  that  are  not 
qualified  to  pray,"  whilst  thou  hast  the  effront- 
ery to  stand  still  ?  But  no,  thou  art  not  of  that 
number,  thou  art  of  the  number  of  those  who 
are  qualified  to  partake,  and  yet  art  indifferent 
about  it,  and  regardest  the  matter  as  nothing. 

Look,  I  entreat :  a  royal  table  is  set  before 
you,  Angels  minister  at  that  table,  the  King 
Hi  mself  is  there,  and  dost  thou  stand  gaping  ? '  '4 
Are  thy  garments  defiled,  and  yet  dost  thou 
make  no  account  of  it? — or  are  they  clean? 
Then  fall  down  and  partake.  Every  day  He 
cometh  in  to  see  the  guests,  and  converseth  with 
them  all.  Yes,  at  this  moment  is  he  speaking 
to  your  conscience;  "Friends,  how  stand  ye 
here,  not  having  on  a  wedding  garment  ?  "  He 
said  not,  Why  didst  thou  sit  down  ?  no,  before 
he  sat  down,  He  declared  him  to  be  unworthy, 
so  much  as  to  come  in.  He  saith  not,  "  Why 
didst  thou  sit  down  to  meat,"  but,  "  Why  earn- 
est thou  in?"  And  these  are  the  words  that 
He  is  at  this  very  moment  addressing  to  one 
and  all  of  us  that  stand  here  with  such  shame- 
less effrontery.  For  every  one,  that  partaketh 
not  of  the  mysteries,  is  standing  here  in  shame- 
less effrontery.  It  is  for  this  reason,  that  they 
which  are  in  sins  are  first  of  all  put  forth ;  for 
just  as  when  a  master  is  present  at  his  table,  it 
is  not  right  that  those  servants  who  have  offended 
him  should  be  present,  but  they  are  sent  out  of 


1  [On  Chrysostom's  view  of  the  eucharistic  sacrifice,  see  Proleg- 
omena, p.  21,  note. — G.  A.]    . 

9  i.  e.  the  Deacon,  Adapao-to?  irpoard^ac  &iolk6vi*  KTjpvEai  evjf^Jv 
k.  t.  A.    Socr.  Hist.  ii.  II.  id  qu.  avayivuxricciv,  Atnan.  tie /ugi\. 

*  Vid.  Bingh.  Antiqu.  xiii.  2.  and  xiv.  5.  (The  text  here  seems 
to  be  corrupt,  Field's  text  is,  V  As  many  as  are  in  penitence,  all 
pray,"  (6tj0rirt  n-air«f)  which  is  evidently  inconsistent  with  the 
context.  The  text  should  probably  be.  "  As  many  as  are  in 
penitence,  depart ;  as  many  as  are  not  in  penitence,  pray  all."  So 
Field  suggests  in  a  note  saying,  Locus  corruptus  videtur,  sic 
fortasse  redintegrandus'.  ocroi  iv  fitravoitf  aui\09Tt,  ocroifti)  iv 
fi«Tav6t.a.  Scrffhrre  iraircc. — G.  A.] 

4  Vid!  Bingh.  Antiqu.  xv.  2. 


the  way :  just  so  also  here  when  the  sacrifice  is 
brought  forth,  and  Christ,  the  Lord's  sheep,  is 
sacrificed;  when  thou  nearest  the  words,  "  Let 
us  pray  together/ '  when  thou  beholdest  the  cur- 
tains drawn  up,8  then  imagine  that  the  Heavens 
are  let  down  from  above,  and  that  the  Angels 
are  descending ! 

As  then  it  is  not  meet  that  any  one  of 
the  uninitiated  be  present,  so  neither  is  it  that 
one  of  them  that  are  initiated,  and  yet  at  the 
same  time  defiled.  Tell  me,  suppose  any  one 
were  invited  to  a  feast,  and  were  to  wash  his 
hands,  and  sit  down,  and  be  all  ready  at  the 
table,  and  after  all  refuse  to  partake  ;  is  he  not 
insulting  the  man  who  invited  him  ?  were  it  not 
better  for  such  an  one  never  to  have  come  at 
all  ?  Now  it  is  just  in  the  same  way  that  thou 
hast  come  here.  Thou  hast  sung  the  Hymn6 
with  the  rest :  thou  hast  declared  thyself  to  be 
of  the  number  of  them  that  are  worthy,  by  not 
departing  with  them  that  are  unworthy.  Why 
stay,  and  yet  not  partake  of  the  table  ?  I  am 
unworthy,  thou  wilt  say.  Then  art  thou  also 
unworthy  of  that  communion  thou  hast  had  in 
prayers.  For  it  is  not  by  means  of  the  offerings 
only,  but  also  by  means  of  those  canticles  that 
the  Spirit  descendeth  all  around.  Do  we  not 
see  our  own  servants,  first  scouring  the  table 
with  a  sponge,  and  cleaning  the  house,  and 
then  setting  out  the  entertainment  ?  This  is 
what  is  done  by  the  prayers,  by  the  cry  of  the 
herald.  We  scour  the  Church,  as  it  were,  .with 
a  sponge,  that  all  things  may  be  set  out  in  a 
pure  church,  that  there  may  be  "neither  spot 
nor  wrinkle."  (Eph.  v:  27.)  Unworthy,  indeed, 
both  our  eyes  of  these  sights,  and  unworthy  are 
our  ears!  "And  if  even  a  beast,"  it  is  said, 
"  touch  the  mountain,  it  shall  be  stoned."  (Ex. 
xix :  13.)  Thus  then  they  were  not  worthy  so 
much  as  to  set  foot  on  it,  and  yet  afterwards 
they  both  came  near,  and  beheld  where  God 
had  stood.  And  thou  mayest,  afterwards,  come 
near,  and  behold :  when,  however,  He  is  pres- 
ent, depart.  Thou  art  no  more  allowed  to  be 
here  than  the  Catechumen  is.  For  it  is  not  at  all 
the  same  thing  never  to  have  reached  the  mys- 
teries, and  when  thou  hast  reached  them,  to 
stumble  at  them  and  despise  them,  and  to  make 
thyself  unworthy  of  this  thing.  One  might 
enter  upon  more  points,  and  those  more  awful 
still ;  not  however  to  burden  your  understand- 
ing, these  will  suffice.  They  who  are  not 
brought  to  their  right  senses  with  these,  certain- 
ly will  not  be  with  more. 

That  I  may  not  then  be  the  means  of  increas- 

1  afjLJHthjpa,  curtains  before  the  choir  or  altar,  vid.  Chrysost.  in 
Matt.  Horn.  84.  Jin.  where,  however,  it  has  not  the  ecclesiastical 
sense,  Epiphan.  Epist.  51.  9.  apud  fficron.  ed.  Vallars.  where 
the  curtain  had  a  figure  of  Christ  or  some  Saint,  (to  which  Epipha- 
nius  objects.)  vid.  also  Evagr.   Hist.  vi.  21. 

6  The  Angelic  Hymn,  Holy,  Holy,  Holy,  vid.  Chrysost.  in  * 
Cor,  Horn,  18.  Cyril.  Hieros.  Mys't.  v.  6. 


Homily  IV.  J 


HOMILIES  ON  EPHESIANS. 


65 


ing  jour  condemnation,  I  entreat  you,  not  to 
forbear  coming,  but  to  render  yourselves  worthy 
both  of  being  present,  and  of  approaching. 
Tell  me,  were  any  king  to  give  command  and 
to  say,  "  If  any  man  does  this,  let  him  partake 
of  my  table ;  "  say,  would  ye  not  do  all  ye 
could  to  be  admitted  ?  He  hath  invited  us  to 
heaven,  to  the  table  of  the  great  and  wonderful 
King,  and  do  we  shrink  and  hesitate,  instead  of 
hastening  and  running  to  it  ?  And  what  then 
is  our  hope  of  salvation?  We  cannot  lay  the 
blame  on  our  weakness ;  we  cannot  on  our  na- 
ture. It  is  indolence  and  nothing  else  that 
renders  us  unworthy. 

So  far  have  I  spoken  of  myself.  But  may  He 
that  pricketh  the  heart,  He  that  giveth  the 
Spirit  of  compunction,  pierce  your  hearts,  and 
plant  the  seeds  in  the  depth  of  them,  that  so 


through  His  fear  ye  may  conceive,  and  bring 
forth  the  spirit  of  salvation,  and  come  near  with 
boldness.  For,  "  thy  children,"  it  is  said, 
"are  like  olive  plants  round  about  thy  table." 
(Ps.  cxxviii :  3.)  O,  then,  let  there  be  nothing  old, 
nothing  wild,  nothing  harsh.  For  of  such  sort 
are  the  young  plants  that  are  fit  for  fruit,  for  the 
beautiful  fruit,  fruit  I  mean  of  the  olive-tree. 
And  thriving  they  are,  so  as  all  to  be  round  about 
the  table,  and  come  together  here,  not  in  vain 
or  by  chance,  but  with  fear  and  reverence.  For 
thus  shall  ye  behold  with  boldness  even  Christ 
Himself  in  heaven,  and  shall  be  counted  worthy 
of  that  heavenly  kingdom,  which  may  God 
grant  we  may  all  attain,  in  Jesus  Christ,  our  Lord 
with  whom  to  the  Father,  together  with  the 
Holy  Spirit,  be  glory,  might,  honor,  now  and 
ever,  and  for  ages  of  ages.     Amen. 


HOMILY   IV. 

Chapter,  ii.  Verses  i — 3. 


"And  you  did  He  quicken,  when  ye  were  dead 
through  your  trespasses  and  sins,  wherein  aforetime 
ye  walked,  according  to  the  course  of  this  world, 
according  to  the  prince  of  the  power  of  the  air, 
of  the  spirit  that  now  worketh  in  the  sons  of  dis- 
obedience; among  whom  we  also  all  once  lived, 
in  the  lusts  of  our  flesh,  doing  the  desires  of  the 
flesh,  and  of  the  mind ;  and  were  by  nature  child- 
ren of  wrath  even  as  the  rest" 

There  is,  we  know,  a  corporal,  and  there  is 
also  a  spiritual,  dying.1  Of  the  first  it  is  no 
crime  to  partake,  nor  is  there  any  peril  in  it, 
inasmuch  as  there  is  no  blame  attached  to  it,  for 
it  is  a  matter  of  nature,  not  of  deliberate  choice. 
It  had  its  origin  in  the  transgression  of  the  first- 
created  man,  and  thenceforward  in  its  issue  it 
passed  into  a  nature,  and,  at  all  events,  will 
quickly  be  brought  to  a  termination  ;  whereas 
this  spiritual  dying,  being  a  matter  of  deliber- 
ate choice,  has  criminality,  and  has  no  termina- 
tion. Observe  then  how  Paul,  having  already 
shown  how  exceedingly  great  a  thing  it  is,  in  so 
much  that  to  heal  a  deadened  soul  is  a  far 
greater  thing  than  to  raise  the  dead,  so  now 
again  lays  it  down  in  all  its  real  greatness. 

"And  you/'  saith  he  "when  ye  were  dead 
through  your  trespasses  and  sins,  wherein  afore- 
time ye  walked  according  to  the  course  of  this 


world,  according  to  the  prince  of  the  power  of 
the  air,  of  the  spirit  that  now  worketh  in  the 
sons  of  disobedience."  You  observe  the  gen- 
tleness of  Paul,  and  how  on  all  occasions  he 
encourages  the  hearer,  not  bearing  too  hard 
upon  turn.  For  whereas  he  had  said,  Ye  have 
arrived  at  the  very  last  degree  of  wickedness, 
(for  such  is  the  meaning  of  becoming  dead,) 
that  he  may  not  excessively  distress  them,1 
(because  men  are  put  to  shame  when  their 
former  misdeeds  are  brought  forward,  cancelled 
though  they  be,  and  no  longer  attended  with 
danger,)  he  gives  them,  as  it  were,  an  accom- 
plice, that  it  may  not  be  supposed  that  the  work 
is  all  their  own,  and  that  accomplice  a  powerful 
one.  And  who  then  is  this?  The  Devil.  He 
does  much  the  same  also  in  the  Epistle  to  the 
Corinthians,  where,  after  saying,  "Be  not 
deceived,  neither  fornicators,  nor  idolaters," 
(1  Cor.  vi:  9.)  and  after  enumerating  all  the 
other  vices,  and  adding  in  conclusion,  "shall 
inherit  the  kingdom  of  God ;  "  he  then  adds, 
"  and  such  were  some  of  you ;  "  he  does  not 
say  absolutely,  "  ye  were,"  but  "  some  of  you 
were,"  that  is,  thus  in  some  sort  were  ye.  Here 
the  heretics  attack  us.  They  tell  us  that  these 
expressions  (  "  prince  of  all  the  power  of  the  air," 
etc.)  are  used  with  reference  to  God,  and  let- 
ting loose  their  unbridled  tongue,  they  fit  these 

9  [Paul's  motive  in  this  passage  is  probably  not  what  Chrysos- 
tom  says,  but,  on  the  contrary,  to  show  how  desperately  bad  their 
state  was.— G.  A.] 


5 


66 


WORKS  OF  ST.  CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  IV. 


things  to  God,  which  belong  to  the  Devil  alone. 
How  then  are  we  to  put  them  to  silence  ?  By 
the  very  words  they  themselves  use ;  for,  if  He 
is  righteous,  as  they  themselves  allow,  and  yet 
hath  done  these  things,  this  is  no  longer  the  act 
of  a  righteous  being,  but  rather  of  a  being 
most  unrighteous  and  corrupted  ;  and  corrupted 
God  cannot  possibly  be. 

Further,  why  does  he  call  the  Devil  "the 
prince"  of  the  world?  Because  nearly  the 
whole  human  race  has  surrendered  itself  to  him, 
and  all  are  willingly  and  of  deliberate  choice 
his  slaves.  And  to  Christ,  though  He  promises 
unnumbered  blessings,  not  any  one  so  much  as 
gives  any  heed;  whilst  to  the  Devil,  though 
promising  nothing  of  the  sort,  but  sending  them 
on  to  hell,  all  yield  themselves.  His  kingdom 
then  is  in  this  world,  and  he  has,  with  few 
exceptions,  more  subjects  and  more  obedient 
subjects  than  God,  in  consequence  of  our  indol- 
ence. 

"  According  to  the  power,"  saith  he,  "  of  the 
air,  of  the  spirit."1 

Here  again  he  means,  that  Satan  occupies  the 
space  under  Heaven,  and  that  the  incorporeal 
powers  are  spirits  of  the  air,  under  his  opera- 
tion. For  that  his  kingdom  is  of  this  age,  i.  e., 
will  cease  with  the  present  age,  hear  what  he 
says  at  the  end  of  the  Epistle ;  "Our  wrestling 
is  not  against  flesh  and  blood,  but  against  the 
principalities,  against  powers,  against  the  world 
rulers  of  this  darkness ;  "  (Eph.  vi :  12.)  where, 
lest  when  you  hear  of  world-rulers  you  should 
therefore  say  that  the  Devil  is  uncreated,  he 
elsewhere  (Gal.  i:  4.)  calls  a  perverse  time, 
"an  evil  world,"  not  of  the  creatures.  For  he 
seems  to  me,  having  had  dominion  beneath  the 
sky,  not  to  have  fallen  from  his  dominion,  even 
after  his  transgression. 

"  That  now  worketh,"  he  says,  "  in  the  sons 
of  disobedience." 

You  observe  that  it  is  not  by  force,  nor 
by  compulsion,  but  by  persuasion,  he  wins 
us  over;  "disobedience"  or  "  untractable- 
ness"  is  his  word,  as  though  one  were  to 
say,  by  guile  and  persuasion  he  draws  all  his 
votaries  to  himself.  And  not  only  does  he  give 
them  a  word  of  encouragement  by  telling  them 
they  have  an  associate,  but  also  by  ranking  him- 
self with  them,  for  he  says, 

"  Among  whom  we  also  all  once  lived." 

"  All,"  because  he  cannot  say  that  any  one  is 
excepted. 

"  In  the  lusts  of  our  flesh,  doing  the  desires 
of  the  flesh,  and  of  the  mind,  and  were  by 
nature  children  of  wrath,  even  as  the  rest." 

That  is,  having  no  spiritual  affections.     Yet, 

'["  The  word  afo  which  is  commonly  confined  to  the  region  of 
the  air,  may  be  extended  to  all  that  supra-terrestrial  but  sub-celes- 
tial region  which  seems  to  be,  if  not  the  abode,  at  least  the  haunt 
of  evil  spirits,  cf  Job  i :  7.**— Ellicott.— G.  A.] 


lest  he  should  slander  the  flesh,  or  lest  it  should 
be  supposed  that  the  transgression  was  not  great, 
observe  how  he  guards  the  matter, 

"Doing,"  he  says,  "the  desires  of  the  flesh 
and  of  the  mind." 

That  is,  the  pleasurable  passions.  We  pro- 
yoked  God  to  anger,  he  saith,  we  provoked 
Him  to  wrath,  we  were  wrath,  and  nothing 
else.  For  as  he  who  is  a  child  of  man  is  by 
nature  man,  so  also  were  we  children  of  wrath2 
even  as  others ;  i.  e.,  no  one  was  free,  but  we  all 
did  things  worthy  of  wrath. 

Ver.  4.  "But  God,  being  rich  in  mercy." 

Not  merely  merciful,  but  rich  in  mercy;  as 
it  is  said  also  in  another  place;  "  In  the  multi- 
tude of  thy  mercies."  (Ps.  lxix:  17.)  And  again, 
"  Have  mercy  upon  me,  according  to  the  mul- 
titude of  thy  tender  mercies."  (Ps.  li:    1.) 

Ver.  4.  "  For  His  great  love,3  wherewith  He 
loved  us." 

Why  did  He  love  us  ?  For  these  things  are 
not  deserving  of  love,  but  of  the  sorest  wrath, 
and  punishment.  And  thus  it  was  of  great 
mercy. 

Ver.  5.  "  Even  when  we  were  dead  through 
our  trespasses  He  quickened  us  together  with 
Christ." 

Again  is  Christ  introduced,  and  it  is  a  mat- 
ter well  worthy  of  our  belief,  because  if  the 
Firstfruits  live,  so  do  we  also.  He  hath  quick- 
ened both  Him,  and  us.  Seest  thou  that  all 
this  is  said  of  Christ  incarnate?  Beholdest 
thou  "  the  exceeding  greatness  of  His  power  to 
us-ward  who  believe?"  (Eph.  i:  19.)  Them 
that  were  dead,  them  that  were  children  of 
wrath,  them  hath  he  quickened.  Beholdest 
thou  "  the  hope  of  his  calling?  " 

Ver.  6.  "He  raised  us  up  with  Him  and 
made  us  sit  with  Him." 

Beholdest  thou  the  glory  of  His  inheritance  ? 

*  Chrysostom  understands  the  words  according  to  the  order  ia 
which  they  stand  in  the  original  text,  fatr  rixpa  ^v<rti  opyfo  "we 
were  natural"  or  "genuine  children  of  wrath,"  referring  "by 
nature"  not  to  "we  were"  but  to  "children."  To  say  that  we 
were  by  "  nature"  under  wrath,  might  have  seemed  all  one  with  say- 
ing that  God  created  Adam  under  wrath.  When  then  we  so  speak, 
we  must  take  the  word  "  nature"  in  S.  Augustine's  sense,  not  Co 
mean  our  literal  nature,  but  "as  referring  to  our  birth."  "/»  eo 
quod  dixi,  '  natura  esse  mala  anima  nullo  mod*  queunt,'  H 
quaritur  quomodo  accipiamus  quod  ait  Apostolus,  *  Fuimus  et 
nos  naturA  Jilii  ira,  &c.'  "  resfiottdemus,  naturam  in  kit 
verbis  meis  me  intelligi  voluisse  Warn,  qua  proprie  natura 
dicttur,  in  qua  sine  vitiis  creati  sumus.  Nam  ista  propter 
originem  natura  appellatur,  qua  origo  utique  habet  vittmm, 
quod  est  contra  naturam.  August.  Retract,  i.  15.  §.  6.  vid, 
also  de  Lib.  Arb.  iii.  54.]  "That  man  is  a  born  subject  of  wrath 
from  birth,  an  object  of  the  divine  condemnation,  is  not  at  all  a 
doctrine  of  the  Apostle,  according  to  whom  man  by  his  actual 
sin  falls  under  the  wrath  of  God,  inasmuch  as  he  becomes  sub- 
ject to  and  follows  the  inborn  principle  of  sin  in  opposition  to  his 
moral  will  which  he  likewise  by  nature  bears  in  himself.  Certainly 
man  is  born  with  this  natural  sinful  quality,  i.  e.,  with  the  princi- 
ple of  sin,  by  the  awakening  and  development  of  which  the  moral 
will  is  vanquished  (Rom.  vii.  cf.  Jo.  iii :  6.)  It  is  not,  however,  the 
mere  fact  of  this  inborn  presence  having  it*  basis  in  his  flesh  that 
in  and  of  itself  makes  him  a  child  of  wrath,  but  he  only  becomes 
so  when  that  constitution  of  his  moral  nature,  that  mingling  of  the 
two  opposite  principles  in  his  natural  disposition  has  brought 
about  the  victory  of  the  sin-principle,  which  however  is  the  case 
with  every  one." — Meyer. — G.  A.J 

'  [Aid  ttjv  noKKrjv  ayairnv  avrow :  "  namely,  in  order  to  satisfy 
it."~Meyer.— G.  A.] 


Homily  IV.] 


HOMILIES  ON  EPHESIANS. 


67 


That   "  He  hath   raised  us  up   together,"  is 
plain.     But  that  He  "hath  made  us  sit  with 
Him  in  the  heavenly  places  in  Christ  Jesus," 
how  does  this  hold  ?     It  holds  as  truly,  as  that 
He  hath  raised  us  together.     For  as  yet  no  one 
is  actually  raised,  *  excepting  that  inasmuch  as 
as  the  Head  hath  risen,  we  also  are  raised,  just 
as  in  the  history,  when  Jacob  did  obeisance,  his 
wife  also  did  obeisance  to  Joseph.  (Gen.  xxxvii : 
9,  10.)  And  so  in  the  same  way  "  hath  He  also 
made  us  to  sit  with  Him."    For  since  the  Head 
sitteth,  the  body  sitteth  also  with  it,  and  there- 
fore he  adds  "  in  Christ  Jesus."     Or  again,  if 
it  means,  not  this,  it  means  that  by  the  laver  of 
Baptism  He  hath  "  raised  us  up  with  Him." 
How  then  in  that  case  hath  He  made  "  us  to  sit 
with  Him ? "     Because,  saith  he,  "if  we  suffer 
we  shall  also  reign  with  Him,"  (2  Tim.  ii : 
12.)  if  we  be  dead  with  Him  we  shall  also  live 
with  Him.     Truly  there  is  need  of  the  Spirit 
and  of  revelation,  in  order  to  understand  the 
depth  of  these  mysteries.     And  then  that  ye 
may  have  no  distrust  about  the  matter,  observe 
what  he  adds  further. 

Ver.  7.  "  That  in  the  ages  to  come,  He 
might  show  the  exceeding  riches  of  His  grace, 
in  kindness  towards  us,  in  Christ  Jesus." 

Whereas  he  had  been  speaking  of  the  things 
which  concerned  Christ,  and  these  might  be 
nothing  to  us,  (for  what,  it  might  be  said,  is  it 
to  us,  that  He  rose)  therefore  he  shows  that 
they  do  moreover  extend  to  us,  inasmuch  as  He 
is  made  one  with  us.  Only  that  our  concern  in 
the  matter  he  states  separately.  "  Us,"  saith 
he,  "  who  were  dead  through  our  trespasses  He 
raised  up  with  Him,  and  made  us  sit  with 
Him."  Wherefore,  as  I  was  saying,  be  not 
unbelieving,  take  the  demonstration  he  adduces 
both  from  former  things,  and  from  His  Head- 
ship, and  also  from  His  desire  to  show  forth 
His  goodness.  For  how  will  He  show  it,  unless 
this  come  to  pass  ?  And  He  will  show  it  in  the 
tges  to  come.  What?  that  the  blessings  are 
both  great,  and  more  certain  than  any  other. 
For  now  the  things  which  are  said  may  to  the 
unbelievers  seem  to  be  foolishness  ;  but  then  all 
shall  know  them.  Wouldest  thou  understand 
too,  how  He  hath  made  us  sit  together  with 
Him?  Hear  what  Christ  Himself  saith  to  the 
disciples,  "  Ye  also  shall  sit  upon  twelve 
thrones,  judging  the  twelve  tribes  of  Israel." 
(Matt,  xix :  28.)  And  again,  "  But  to  sit  on  My 
right  hand  and  on  My  left  hand  is  not  Mine  to 
give,  but  it  is  for  them  for  whom  it  hath  been 

'[This  is  Meyer's  view.  He  says :  "  By  virtue  of  the  dynamic 
mnrctioo  of  Christ  with  believers  as  the  head  with  its  body  their 
BvMficatfcm  is  objectively  comprehended  in  His." 

Ellicott  says  ;  "  Though  the  simple  meaning  of  awijyc  ipcr  and 
*>*riJk*«p  seems  to  confine  their  reference  to  what  is  future  and 
objective;  still  as  rvN^tovoiimr  though  primarily  spiritual  and 
Present  may  have  a  physical  and  future  reference,  so  here  a 
Jdcsent  spiritual  resurrection  and  enthronement  may  be  alluded 
to'-G.T] 


prepared  of  My  Father."  (Matt,  xx:  23.)  So 
that  it  hath  been  prepared.  And  well  saith  he, 
"  in  kindness  towards  us  in  Christ  Jesus,"  for 
to- sit  on  His  right  hand  is  honor  above  all 
honor,  it  is  that  beyond  which  there  is  none 
other.  This  then  he  saith,  that  even  we  shall 
sit  there.  Truly  this  is  surpassing  riches,  truly 
surpassing  is  the  greatness  of  His  power,  to  make 
us  sit  down  with  Christ.  Yea,  hadst  thou  ten 
thousand  souls,  wouldest  thou  not  lose  them  for 
His  sake  ?  Yea,  hadst  thou  to  enter  the  flames, 
oughtest  thou  not  readily  to  endure  it  ?  And 
He  Himself  too  saith  again,  "  Where  I  am, 
there  shall  also  My  servant  be."  (John,  xii :  26.) 
Why  surely  had  ye  to  be  cut  to  pieces  every 
day,  ought  ye  not,  for  the  sake  ot  these  pro- 
mises cheerfully  to  embrace  it  ?  Think,  where 
He  sitteth?  above  all  principality  and  power. 
And  with  whom  it  is  that  thou  sittest  ?  With 
Him.  And  who  thou  art  ?  One  dead,  by  nature 
a  child  of  wrath.  And  what  good  hast  thou 
done  ?  None.  Truly  now  it  is  high  time  to  ex- 
claim, "  Oh  the  depth  of  the  riches  both  of  the 
wisdom  and  the  knowledge  of  God  !  "  (Rom. 

xi:33-) 

Ver.  8.   "  For  by  grace,"  saith  he  "  have  ye 

been  saved."* 

In  order  then  that  the  greatness  of  the  bene- 
fits bestowed  may  not  raise  thee  too  high,  ob- 
serve how  he  brings  thee  down :  "by  grace  ye 
have  been  saved,"  saith  he, 

"Through  faith;" 

Then,  that,  on  the  other  hand,  our  free-will 
be  not  impaired,  he  adds  also  our  part  in  the 
work,  and  yet  again  cancels  it,  and  adds, 

"And  that  not  of  ourselves." 

Neither  is  faith,8  he  means,  "of  ourselves." 
Because  had  He  not  come,  had  He  not  called 
us,  how  had  we  been  able  to  believe?  for 
"how,"  saith  he,  "shall  they  believe,  unless 
they  hear?"  (Rom.  x:  14.)  So  that  the  work 
of  faith  itself  is  not  our  own. 

"It  is  the  gift,"  said  he,  "of  God,"  it  is 
"not  of  works." 

Was  faith  then,  you  will  say,  enough  to  save 
us?  No;  but  God,  saith  he,  hath  required 
this,  lest  He  should  save  us,  barren  and  without 
work  at  all.  His  expression  is,  that  faith  saveth, 
but  it  is  because  God  so  willeth,  that  faith  sav- 
eth. Since,  how,  tell  me,  doth  faith  save, 
without  works?     This  itself  is  the  gift  of  God. 

Ver.  9.   "  That  no  man  should  glory." 

That   he  may   excite   in   us  proper   feeling 


1  ["  Confirmatory  explanation  of  the  truth  and  justice  of  the  ex- 
pression, 'the  exceeding  riches  of  His  grace'  by  a  recurrence  to 
the  statement  made  parenthetically  in  verse  5."— Ellicott.— G. 
A.J 

1  [Meyer  objects  to  this  interpretation  saying  :  "  How  violent  is 
this  taking  to  pieces  of  the  text,  since  ovk  t£  vuwpand  owe  «£epy*»r 
present  themselves  in  a  manner  alike  natural  and  weighty  as  ele- 
ments belonging  to  one  flow  of  the  discourse  !  The  tovto  refers 
to  the  salvation  just  designated  as  regards  its  specific  mode."  So 
substantially  Ellicott.— G.  A.] 


68 


WORKS  OF  ST.  CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  IV, 


touching  this  gift  of  grace.  ' '  What  then  ? ' '  saith 
a  man,  "  Hath  He  Himself  hindered  our  being 
justified  by  works  ?  "  By  no  means.  But  no  one, 
he  saith,  is  justified  by  works,  in  order  that  the 
grace  and  loving-kindness  of  God  may  be 
shown.  He  did  not  reject  us  as  having  works, 
but  as  abandoned  of  works  He  hath  saved  us 
by  grace  ;  so  that  no  man  henceforth  may  have 
whereof  to  boast.  And  then,  lest  when  thou 
hearest  that  the  whole  work  is  accomplished 
not  of  works  but  by  faith,  thou  shouldest  be- 
come idle,1  observe  how  he  continues, 

Ver.  10.  "  For  we  are  His  workmanship, 
created  in  Christ  Jesus  for  good  works,  which 
God  afore  prepared  that  we  should  walk  in 
them." 

Observe  the  words  he  uses.  He  here  alludes 
to  the  regeneration,  which  is  in  reality  a  second 
creation.  We  have  been  brought  from  non-ex- 
istence into  being.  As  to  what  we  were  before, 
that  is,  the  old  man,  we  are  dead.  What  we 
are  now  become,  before,  we  were  not.  Truly 
then  is  this  work  a  creation,  yea,  and  more 
noble  than  the  first ;  for  from  that  one,  we  have 
our  being;  but  from  this  last,  we  have,  over 
and  above,  our  well  being. 

"For  good  works,  which  God  afore  prepared 
that  we  shDuld  walk  in  them."' 

Not  merely  that  we  should  begin,  but  that  we 
should  walk  in  them,  for  we  need  a  virtue  which 
shall  last  throughout,  and  be  extended  on  to 
our  dying  day.  If  we  had  to  travel  a  road  lead- 
ing to  a  royal  city,  and  then  when  we  had 
passed  over  the  greater  part  of  it,  were  to  flag 
and  sit  down  near  the  very  close,  it  were  of  no 
use  to  us.  This  is  the  hope  of  our  calling ;  for 
"  for  good  works  "  he  says.  Otherwise  it  would 
profit  us  nothing. 

Moral.  Thus  here  he  rejoices  not  that  we 
should  work  one  work,  but  all ;  for,  as  we  have 
five  senses,  and  ought  to  make  use  of  all  in  their 
proper  season,  so  ought  we  also  the  several  vir- 
tues. Now  were  a  man  to  be  temperate  and  yet 
unmerciful,  or  were  he  to  be  merciful  and  yet 
grasping,  or  were  he  to  abstain  indeed  from 
other  people's  goods,  and  yet  not  bestow  his 
own,  it  would  be  all  in  vain.  For  a  single  vir- 
tue alone  is  not  enough  to  present  us  with  bold- 
ness before  the  judgment-seat  of  Christ ;  no,  we 
require  it  to  be  great,  and  various,  and  uni- 
versal, and  entire.  Hear  what  Christ  saith 
to  the  disciples,  "  Go,  ye  and  make  disciples  of 
all  the  nations, — teaching  them  to  observe  all 

1  [This  is  not  the  object  of  Paul  in  the  statement  of  v.  10,  but  as 
Meyer  says :  "  Ver.  10  is  the  reason  assigned  for  the  immediately 
preceding  ovk  i$  vixuv  .  .  .  #tavxT7<ri)Teu.  For  if  we  are  God's 
handiwork  our  salvation  cannot  be  of  our  own  acquiring,  and  if 
we  are  created  in  Christ  unto  good  works  how  could  the  merit  of 
our  works  be  the  cause  of  our  salvation  or  the  subject  of  our  boast- 
ing ?"— G.  A.1  .  .    , 

*  [God,  before  we  were  created  in  Christ,  made  ready  for  us.  pre- 
pared a  sphere  of  moral  action  or  (to  use  the  simile  of  Chrysostom) 
a  road,  with  the  intent  that  we  should  walk  in  it.  ^  This  sphere, 
this  road  was  good  works,  tpya  ayaBa." — Ellicott. — G.  A.] 


things  whatsoever  I  commanded  you."  (Matt, 
xxviii :  19.)  And  again,  "  Whosoever  shall  break 
one  of  these  least  commandments,  shall  be  called 
least  in  the  kingdom  of  Heaven,"  (Matt,  v: 
19.)  that  is,  in  the  resurrection ;  nay,  he  shall 
not  enter  into  the  kingdom ;  for  He  is  wont  to 
call  the  time  also  of  the  resurrection,  the  king- 
dom. "  If  he  break  one,"  saith  He,  "  he  shall 
be  called  least,"  so  that  we  have  need  of  all. 
And  observe  how  it  is  not  possible  to  enter 
without  works  of  mercy ;  but  if  even  this  alone 
be  wanting,  we  shall  depart  into  the  fire.  For, 
saith  He,  "  Depart,  ye  cursed,  into  the  eternal 
fire,  which  is  prepared  for  the  Devil  and  his 
angels."  Why  and  wherefore?  "For  I  was 
an  hungered,  and  ye  gave  me  no  meat ;  I  was 
thirsty,  and  ye  gave  me  no  drink."  (Matt,  xxv: 
42.)  Beholdest  thou,  how  without  any  other 
charge  laid  against  them,  for  this  one  alone  they 
perished.  And  for  this  reason  alone  too  were 
the  virgins  also  excluded  from  the  bride-cham- 
ber, though  sobriety  surely  they  did  possess. 
As  the  Apostle  saith  "  and  the  sanctification, 
without  which  no  man  shall  see  the  Lord." 
(Heb.  xii :  14.)  Consider  then,  that  without 
sobriety,  it  is  impossible  to  see  the  Lord  ;  yet 
it  does  not  necessarily  follow  that  with  sobriety 
it  is  possible  to  see  Him,  because  often-times 
something  else  stands  in  the  way.  Again,  if 
we  do  all  things  ever  so  rightly,  and  yet  do  our 
neighbor  no  service,  neither  in  that  case  shall 
we  enter  into  the  kingdom.  Whence  is  this 
evident  ?  From  the  parable  of  the  servants  en- 
trusted with  the  talents.  For,  in  that  instance, 
the  man's  virtue  was  in  every  point  unimpaired, 
and  there  had  been  nothing  lacking,  but  foras- 
much as  he  was  slothful  in  his  business,  he  was 
rightly  cast  out.  Nay,  it  is  possible,  even  by 
railing  only,  to  fall  into  Hell.  "  For  whoso- 
ever "saith  Christ,  "shall  say  to  his  brother, 
Thou  fool,  shall  be  in  danger  of  the  hell  of 
fire."  (Matt,  v:  22.)  And  if  a  man  be  ever  so 
right  in  all  things,  and  yet  be  injurious,  he  shall 
not  enter. 

And  let  no  one  impute  cruelty  to  God,  in 
that  he  excludes  those  who  fail  in  this  matter, 
from  the  kingdom  of  Heaven.  For  even  with 
men,  if  any  one  do  any  thing  whatsoever  con- 
trary to  the  law,  he  is  banished  from  the  king's 
presence.  And  if  he  transgresses  so  much  as 
one  of  the  established  laws,  if  he  lays  a  false 
accusation  against  another,  he  forfeits  his  office. 
And  if  he  commits  adultery,  and  is  detected, 
he  is  disgraced,  and  even  though  he  have  done 
ten  thousand  right  acts,  he  is  undone  ;  and  if 
he  commits  murder,  and  is  convicted,  this  again 
is  enough  to  destroy  him.  Now  if  the  laws  of 
men  are  so  carefully  guarded,  how  much  more 
should  those  of  God  be.  "But  He  is  good,"  a 
man  says.     How  long  are  we  to  be  uttering  this 


Homily  IV.] 


HOMILIES  ON  EPHESIANS. 


«9 


foolish  talk  ?  foolish,  I  say,  not  because  He  is 
not  good,  but  in  that  we  keep  thinking  that  His 
goodness  will  be  available  to  us  for  these  pur- 
poses, though  I  have  again  and  again  used  ten 
thousand  arguments  on  this  subject.  Listen  to 
the  Scripture,  which  saith,  "  Say  not,  His  mercy 
is  great,  He  will  be  pacified  for  the  multitude 
of  my  sins."  (Ecclus.  v:  6.)  He  does  not  for- 
bid us  to  say,  "  His  mercy  is  great."  This  is 
not  what  He  enjoins ;  rather  he  would  have  us 
constantly  say  it,  and  with  this  object  Paul 
raises  all  sorts  of  arguments,  but  his  object  is 
what  follows.  Do  not,  he  means,  admire  the 
loving-kindness  of  God  with  this  view,  with  a 
view  to  sinning,  and  saying,  "  His  mercy  will 
be  pacified  for  the  multitude  of  my  sins."  For 
it  is  with  this  object  that  I  too  discourse  so  much 
concerning  His  goodness,  not  that  we  may  pre- 
sume upon  it,  and  do  any  thing  we  choose,  be- 
cause in  that  way  this  goodness  will  be  to  the 
prejudice  of  our  salvation ;  but  that  we  may  not 
despair  in  our  sins,  but  may  repent.  For  "  the 
goodness  of  God  leadeth  thee  to  repentance," 
(Rom.  ii :  4. )  not  to  greater  wickedness.  And  if 
thou  become  depraved,  because  of  His  good- 
ness, thou  art  rather  belying  Him  before  men. 
I  see  many  persons  thus  impugning  the  long- 
suffering  of  God ;  so  that  if  thou  use  it  not 
aright,  thou  shalt  pay  the  penalty.  Is  God  a 
God  of  loving-kindness  ?  Yes,  but  He  is  also  a 
righteous  Judge.  Is  He  one  who  maketh  allow- 
ance for  sins?  True,  yet  rendereth  He  to 
every  man  according  to  his  works.  Doth  He 
pass  by  iniquity  and  blot  out  transgressions  ? 
True,  yet  maketh  He  inquisition  also.  How 
then  is  it,  that  these  things  are  not  contradic- 
tions? Contradictions  they  are  not,  if  we  dis- 
tinguish them  by  their  times.  He  doeth  away 
iniquity  here,  both  by  the  laver  of  Baptism,  and 
by  penitence.  There  He  maketh  inquisition  of 
what  we  have  done  by  fire  and  torment.  "  If 
then,"  some  man  may  say,  "  I  am  cast  out,  and 
forfeit  the  kingdom,  whether  I  have  wrought  ten 
thousand  evil  deeds  or  only  one,  wherefore  may 
I  not  do  all  sorts  of  evil  deeds?"  This  is  the 
argument  of  an  ungrateful  servant;  still  never- 
theless, we  will  proceed  to  solve  even  this. 
Never  do  that  which  is  evil  in  order  to  do  thy- 
self good  ;  for  we  shall,  all  alike  fall  short  of 
the  kingdom,  yet  in  Hell  we  shall  not  all 
undergo  the  same  punishment,  but  one  a  severer, 
another  a  milder  one.  •  For  now,  if  thou  and 
another  have  ' '  despised  God 's  goodness, ' '  (Rom. 
ji:  4.)  the  one  in  many  instances,  and  the  other 
in  a  few,  ye  will  alike  forfeit  the  kingdom.  But 
if  ye  have  not  alike  despised  Him,  but  the  one 
in  a  greater,  the  other  in  a  less  degree,  in  Hell 
Jt  shall  feel  the  difference. 

Now  then,  why,  it  may  be  said,  doth  He 
threaten  them  who  have  not  done  works  of 


mercy,  that  they  shall  depart  into  the  fire,  and 
not  simply  into  the  fire,  but  into  that  which  is 
"prepared  for  the  devil  and  his  angels?" 
(Matt,  xxv :  41.)  Why  and  wherefore  is  this? 
Because  nothing  so  provokes  God  to  wrath.  He 
puts  this  before  all  terrible  things ;  for  if  it  is 
our  duty  to  love  our  enemies,  of  what  punish- 
ment shall  not  he  be  worthy,  who  turns  away 
even  from  them  that  love  him,  and  is  in  this 
respect  worse  than  the  heathen?  So  that  in 
this  case  the  greatness  of  the  sin  will  make  such 
an  one  go  away  with  the  devil.  Woe  to  him, 
it  is  said,  who  doeth  not  alms ;  and  if  this  was 
the  case  under  the  Old  Covenant,  much  more  is 
it  under  the  New.  If,  where  the  getting  of 
wealth  was  allowed,  and  the  enjoyment  of  it, 
and  the  care  of  it,  there  was  such  provision 
made  for  the  succoring  the  poor,  how  much 
more  in  that  Dispensation,  where  we  are  com- 
manded to  surrender  all  we  have  ?  For  what 
did  not  they  of  old  do?  They  gave  tithes,  and 
tithes  again  upon  tithes  for  orphans,  widows, 
and  strangers ;  whereas  some  one  was  saying  to 
me  in  astonishment  at  another,  "Why,  such  an 
one  gives  tithes."  What  a  load  of  disgrace 
does  this  expression  imply,  since  what  was  not  a 
matter  of  wonder  with  the  Jews  has  come  to  be 
so  in  the  case  of  the  Christians  ?  If  there  was 
danger  then  in  omitting  tithes,  think  how  great 
it  must  be  now. 

Again,  drunkenness  shall  not  inherit  the 
kingdom.  Yet  what  is  the  language  of  most 
people  ?  "  Well,  if  both  I  and  he  are  in  the 
same  case,  that  is  no  little  comfort."  What 
then  ?  First  of  all,  that  thou  and  he  shall  not 
reap  the  same  punishment ;  but  were  it  other- 
wise, neither  is  that  any  comfort.  Fellowship 
in  sufferings  has  comfort  in  it,  when  the  miser- 
ies have  any  proportion  in  them ;  but  when 
they  exceed  all  proportion,  and  carry  us  beyond 
ourselves,  no  longer  do  they  allow  of  our 
receiving  any  comfort  at  all.  For  tell  the  man 
that  is  being  tortured,  and  has  entered  into  the 
flames,  that  such  an  one  is  undergoing  the 
same,  still  he  will  not  feel  the  comfort.  Did 
not  all  the  Israelites  perish  together?  What 
manner  of  comfort  did  that  afford  them? 
Rather,  did  not  this  very  thing  distress  them  ?  • 
And  this  was  why  they  kept  saying,  We  are 
lost,  we  are  perished,  we  are  wasted  away. 
What  manner  of  comfort  then  is  there  here? 
In  vain  do  we  comfort  ourselves  with  such 
hopes  as  these.  There  is  but  one  only  comfort, 
to  avoid  falling  into  that  unquenchable  fire; 
but  it  is  not  psssible  for  one  who  has  fallen  into 
it  to  find  comfort,  where  there  is  the  gnashing  of 
teeth,  where  there  is  the  weeping,  where  is  the 
worm  that  dieth  not,and  the  fire  that  is  not  quench- 
ed. For  shalt  thou  conceive  any  comfort  at 
all,  tell  me,  when  thou  art  in  so  great  tribulation 


7o 


WORKS  OF  ST.  CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Houily  V. 


and  distress?  Wilt  thou  then  be  any  longer  thy- 
self? Let  us  not,  I  pray  and  entreat  you, 
let  us  not  vainly  deceive  ourselves  and  com- 
fort ourselves  with  arguments  like  these;  no, 
let  us  practise  those  virtues,  which  shall 
avail  to  save  us.  The  object  before  us  is  to 
sit  together  with  Christ,  and  art  thou  trifling 
about  such  matters  as  these  ?  Why,  were  there 
no  other  sin  at  all,  how  great  punishment  ought 
we  not  to  suffer  for  these  very  speeches  them- 
selves, because  we  are  so  insensate,  so  wretched, 
and  so  indolent,  as,  even  with  so  vast  a  privilege 
before  us,  to  talk  thus?  Oh!  how  much  shalt 
thou  have  to  lament,  when  thou  shalt  then  con- 
sider them  that  have  done  good !  When  thou 
shalt  behold  slaves  and  base-born  who  .have 
labored  but  a  little  here,  there  made  partakers 
of  the  royal  throne,  will  not  these  things  be 
worse  to  thee  than  torment  ?  For  if  even  now, 
when  thou  seest  any  in  high  reputation,  though 


thou  art  suffering  no  evil,  thou  regardest  this 
as  worse  than  any  punishment,  and  by  this 
alone  art  consumed,  and  bemoanest  thyself,  and 
weepest,  and  judgest  it  to  be  as  bad  as  ten 
thousand  deaths ;  what  shalt  thou  suffer  then  ? 
Why,  even  were  there  no  hell  at  all,  the  very 
thought  of  the  kingdom,  were  it  not  enough  to 
destroy  and  consume  thee?  And  that  such  will 
be  the  case,  we  have  enough  in  our  own  experi- 
ence of  things  to  teach  us.  Let  us  not  then 
vainly  flatter  our  own  souls  with  speeches  like 
these;  no,  let  us  take  heed,  let  us  have  a 
regard  for  our  own  salvation,  let  us  make  virtue 
our  care,  let  us  rouse  ourselves  to  the  practice 
of  good  works,  that  we  may  be  counted  worthy 
to  attain  to  this  exceeding  glory,  in  Jesus 
Christ  our  Lord  with  whom  to  the  Father, 
together  with  the  Holy  Spirit  be  glory,  might, 
honor,  now  and  ever,  and  for  ages  of  ages. 
Amen. 


HOMILY  V 


Chapter  ii.  Verses  ii,  12. 


"  Wherefore  remember,  that  aforetime  ye  the  Gentiles  in 
the  flesh,  who  are  called  Uncircumcision  by  that 
which  is  called  Circumcision  in  the  flesh  made  by 
hands ;  that  ye  were  at  that  time  separate  from 
Christ,  alienated  from  the  commonwealth  of  Israel, 
and  strangers  from  the  covenants  of  the  promise, 
having  no  hope,  and  without  God  in  the  world." 

There  are  many  things  to  show  the  loving- 
kindness  of  God.  First,  the  fact,  that  by  Him- 
self He  hath  saved  us,  and  by  Himself  through 
such  a  method  as  this.  Secondly,  that  He  hath 
saved  us,  as  being  what  we  were.  Thirdly, 
that  He  hath  exalted  us  to  the  place  where  we 
are.  For  all  these  things  both  contain  in  them- 
selves the  greatest  demonstration  of  His  loving- 
kindness,  and  they  are  the  very  subjects  which 
Paul  is  now  agitating  in  his  Epistle.  He  had 
been  saying,  that  when  we  were  dead  through 
our  trespasses,  and  children  of  wrath,  He  saved 
us  ;  He  is  now  telling  us  further,  to  whom  He 
hath  made  us  equal.  "Wherefore,"  saith  he, 
"remember;  "  because  it  is  usual  with  us,  one 
and  all,  when  we  are  raised  from  a  state  of 
great  meanness  to  corresponding,  or  perhaps  a 
greater,  dignity,  not  so  much  as  even  to  retain 
any  recollection  of  our  former  condition,  being 
nourished  in  this  our  new  glory.  On  this  ac- 
count it  is  that  he  says,  "  Wherefore  remember." 
— ' '  Wherefore. ' •  Why , ' '  wherefore ?  " x. Because 


we  have  been  created  unto  good  works,  and 
this  were  sufficient  to  induce  us  to  cultivate  vir- 
tue; "remember," — for  that  remembrance  is 
sufficient  to  make  us  grateful  to  our  Benefactor, 
— "that  ye  were  aforetime  Gentiles."  Observe 
how  he  lowers  the  superior  advantages  of  the 
Jews  and  admires  the  disadvantages  of  the  Gen- 
tiles ;  disadvantage  indeed  it  was  not,  but  he  is 
arguing  with  each  respectively  from  their  char- 
acter and  manner  of  life. 

"  Who  are  called  Uncircumcision."  * 
The  honor  then  of  the  Jews  is  in  names,  their 
perogative  is  in  the  flesh.     For  uncircumcision 
is  nothing,  and  circumcision  is  nothing. 

"  By  that  which  is  called,' '  saith  he,  "  Cir- 
cumcision in  the  flesh  made  by  hands,  that  ye 
were  at  that  time  separate  from  Christ,  alienated 
from  the  commonwealth  of  Israel,  and  strangers 
from  the  covenants  of  the  promise,  having  no 
hope,  and  without  God  in  the  world.3 


1  ["  Therefore,  because  such  exalt  ed,and  unmerited  benefits  have 
been  imparted  to  us  (vv.  4-10),"  (Ellicott  vv.  1-7).  "These 
benefits  should  move  the  reader  to  remember  his  former  miserable 
heathen  state  in  order  to  appreciate  by  contrast  the  value  of  his 
present  state."     Meyer. — G.*A.] 

9  ["  They  were  those  designated  '  Foreskin '  by  the  people  who 
bear  the  name  of  the  surgical  operation  performed  on  their  flesh." 
— Meyer. — G.  A.] 

•  ["  They  were  without  church,  without  promise,  without  hope, 
without  God,  and  that  in  the  profane  wicked  world  («V  rw  K&rpy 
being  in  contrast  to  voAtrtia*  tow  I  <r  pari  A  and  like  it,  ethical  in 
reference.)  *A0cot  may  mean  ignorant  of  God  or  forsaken  by  God, 
probably  the  latter."— Ellicott. -^G.  A.] 


Homily  V.] 


HOMILIES  ON  EPHESIANS. 


7' 


Ye,  saith  he,  who  were  thus  called  by  the 
Jews.     But  why  when  he  is  about  to  show  that 
the  benefit  bestowed  upon  them  consisted  in 
this,  in  having  fellowship  with  Israel,  does  he 
disparage  the  Israelitish  prerogative  ?  He  does 
not  disparage  it.  In  essential  points  he  enhances 
it,  but  only  in  these  points,  in  which  they  had 
no  fellowship,  he  disparages  it.     For  further  on 
he  says,  ' '  Ye  are  fellow-citizens  of  the  saints 
and  of  the  household  of  God."     Mark,  how  far 
he  is  from  disparaging  it.     These  points,  saith 
he,  are  indifferent.    Never  think,  saith  he,  that 
because  ye  happen  not  to  be  circumcised,  and 
are  now  in  uncircumcision,  that  there  is  any 
difference  in  this.  No,  the  real  trouble  was  this, 
the  being  "without  Christ/ '  the  being  "aliens 
from  the  commonwealth  of  Israel."     Whereas 
this  circumcision  is  not  "  the  commonwealth." 
Again,  the  being  strangers  from  the  covenants 
of  promise,  the  having  no  hope  to  come,  the 
being  without  God  in  this  world,  all  these  were 
parts  of  their  condition.     He  was  speaking  of 
heavenly  things ;  he  speaks  also  of  those  which 
are  upon   earth;    since   the  Jews  had  a  great 
opinion  of  these.     Thus  also  Christ  in  comfort- 
ing His  disciples,  after  saying,  "  Blessed  are 
they  that  have  been  persecuted  for  righteous- 
ness' sake,  for  theirs  is  the  kingdom  of  heaven," 
adds  the  lesser  point  of  consolation,  "  for  so," 
saith  He,  "  persecuted  they  the  prophets  which 
were  before  you."  (Matt,  v  :  10-12.)  For  this, 
compared  with  the  greatness  of  the  other,  is  far 
less,  yet   in   regard   to   the  being   nigh,    and 
believing,  it  is  great  and  sufficient,  and  has  much 
force.    This  then  was  the  sharing  in  the  com- 
monwealth.    His  word  is  not,    "separated," 
bat  "alienated  from  the  commonwealth."  His 
word  is  not,    "ye  took  no  interest  in,"  but, 
"ye  had  not  so  much  as  any  part  in,  and  were 
strangers."  The  expressions  are  most  emphatic, 
and  indicate  the  separation  to  be  very  wide: 
Because  the  Israelites  themselves  were  without 
this  commonwealth,  not  however  as  aliens,  but 
as  indifferent  to  it,  and  they  fell  from  the  cove- 
nants, not  however  as  strangers,  but  as  unwor- 
thy. 

But  what  were  "the  covenants  of  the  prom- 
ise?" "To  thee  and  to  thy  seed,"  saith  He, 
"will  I  give  this  land,"  (Gen.  xvii:  8.)  and 
whatever  else  He  promised. 

"Having  no  hope."  he  adds,  "and  without 
God."  Though  gods  indeed  they  worshipped, 
but  they  were  no  gods :  "for  an  idol  is  not  any 
thing."  (1  Cor.  x:  19.) 

Ver.  13 — 15.  "But  now,1  in  Christ  Jesus, 
ye  that  once  were  far  off,  are  made  nigh  in  the 
blood  of  Christ.  For  He  is  our  peace,  who 
made  both  one,  and  brake  down  the  middle  wall 

1  [ "  This  too  is  what  they  should  remember,  but  the  Apostle  con- 
tinues the  contrast  in  an  independent  sentence. " — Riddle,  in  Pop- 
»lar  Commentary.— O.  A.] 


of  partition,  having  abolished  in  His  flesh  the 
enmity." 

Is  this  then  the  great  privilege,  it  may  be  said, 
that  we  are  admitted  into  the  commonwealth  of 
the  Jews?  What  art  thou  saying?  "  He  hath 
summed  up  all  things  that  are  in  heaven,  and 
that  are  in  earth,"  and  now  dost  thou  tell  us 
about  Israelites?  Yes,  he  would  say.  Those 
higher  privileges  we  must  apprehend  by  faith ; 
these,  by  the  things  themselves.  "But  now," 
saith  he,  "  in  Christ  Jesus,  ye  that  once  were  far 
off,  are  made  nigh,"  in  reference  to  the  com- 
monwealth. For  the  "  far  off,"  and  the  "  nigh," 
are  matters  of  will  and  choice  only. 

"For  He*  is  our  peace,  Who  made  both 
one." 

What  is  this,  "both  one?"  He  does  not 
mean  this,  that  He  hath  raised  us  to  that  high 
descent  of  theirs,  but  that  he  hath  raised  both 
us  and  them  to  a  yet  higher.  Only  that  the 
blessing  to  us  is  greater,  because  to  these  it  had 
been  promised,  and  they  were  nearer  than  we ; 
to  us  it  had  not  been  promised,  and  we  were 
farther  off  than  they.  Therefore  it  is  that  he 
says,  "  And  that  the  Gentiles  might  glorify  God 
for  His  mercy."  (Rom.  xv:  9.)  The  promise 
indeed  He  gave  to  the  Israelites,  but  they  were 
unworthy;  to  us  He  gave  no  promise,  nay,  we 
were  even  strangers,  we  had  nothing  in  common 
with  them;  yet  hath  He  made  us  one,  not  by 
knitting  us  to  them,  but  by  knitting  both  them 
and  us  together  into  one.  I  will  give  you  an 
illustration.  Let  us  suppose  there  to  be  two 
statues,  the  one  of  silver,  the  other  of  lead,  and 
then  that  both  shall  be  melted  down,  and  that 
the  two  shall  come  out  gold.  Behold,  thus  hath 
He  made  the  two  one.  Or  put  the  case  again 
in  another  vvay.  Let  the  two  be,  one  a  slave, 
the  other  an  adopted  son :  and  let  both  offend 
Him,  the  one  as  a  disinherited  child,  the  other 
as  a  fugitive,  and  one  who  never  knew  a  father. 
Then  let  both  be  made  heirs,  both  trueborn 
sons.  Behold,  they  are  exalted  to  one  and  the 
same  dignity,  the  two  are  become  one,  the  one 
coming  from  a  longer,  the  other  from  a  nearer 
distance,  and  the  slave  becoming  more  noble 
than  he  was  before  he  offended. 

"And  brake  down,"  he  proceeds,  "  the  mid- 
dle wall  of  partition."  * 

What  the  middle  wall  of  partition  is,  he  inter- 
prets by  saying,  "  the  enmity  having  abolished 
in  His  flesh,  even  the  law  of  commandments 
contained  in  ordinances."  Some  indeed  affirm 
that  he  means  the  wall  of  the  Jews  against  the 
Greeks,  because  it  did  not  allow  the  Jews  to 
hold  intercourse  with  the  Greeks.  To  me,  how- 
ever, this  does  not  seem  to  be  the  meaning,  but 

*  [  "The  emphatic  prononn  is  used, avrb%.  But  He  isnotput  In 
opposition  to  •  ourselves '  having  made  the  peace,  but  as  Bengel 
says,  '  Not  merely  is  He  peacemaker,  for  at  the  cost  of  '  Himself" 
He  procured  peace.'" — Meyer. — G.  A.J 


72 


WORKS  OF  ST.  CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  V. 


rather  that  he  calls  "the  enmity  in  the  flesh," 
a  middle  wall,  in  that  it  is  a  common  barrier, 
cutting  us  off  alike  from  God.1  As  the  Prophet 
says,  "  Your  iniquities  separate  between  you  and 
Me;  "  (Isa.  lix:  2.)  for  that  enmity  which  He 
had  both  against  Jews  and  Gentiles  was,  as  it 
were,  a  middle  wall.  And  this,  whilst  the  law 
existed,  was  not  only  not  abolished,  but  rather 
was  strengthened;  "for  the  law,"  saith  the 
Apostle,  "worketh  wrath."  (Rom.  iv:  15.) 
Just  in  the  same  way  then  as  when  he  says  in 
that  passage,  "  the  law  worketh  wrath/'  he 
does  not  ascribe  the  whole  of  this  effect  to  the 
law  itself,  but  it  is  to  be  understood,  that  it  is 
because  we  have  transgressed  it ;  so  also  in  this 
place  he  calls  it  a  middle  wall,  because  through 
being  disobeyed  it  wrought  enmity.  The  law 
was  a  hedge,  but  this  it  was  made  for  the  sake 
of  security,  and  for  this  reason  was  called  "  a 
hedge,"  to  the  intent  that  it  might  form  an 
inclosure.  For  listen  again  to  the  Prophet, 
where  he  says,  "I  made  a  trench  about  it." 
(Isa.  v:  2.)  And  again,  "Thou  hast  broken 
down  her  fences,  so  that  all  they  which  pass  by 
the  way  do  pluck  her."  (Ps.  lxxx:  12.)  Here 
therefore  it  means  security  and  so  again,  "I  will 
take  away  the  hedge  thereof,  and  it  shall  be 
trodden  down."  (Isa.  v:  5.)  And  again,  "He 
gave  them  the  law  for  a  defence."  (Isa.  viii :  20.) 
And  again,  "The  Lord  executeth  righteous  acts 
and  made  known  His  ways  unto  Israel. "  (Ps.ciii : 
6,  7.)  It  became,  however,  a  middle  wall,  no 
longer  establishing  them  in  security,  but  cutting 
them  off  from  God.  Such  then  is  the  middle 
wall  of  partition  formed  out  of  the  hedge.  And 
to  explain  what  this  is,  he  subjoins,  "the  enmity 
in  His  flesh  having  abolished,  the  law  of  com- 
mandments." 

How  so  ?  In  that  He  was  slain  and  dissolved 
the  enmity  therein.  And  not  in  this  way  only 
but  also  by  keeping  it.  But  what  then,  if  we 
are  released  from  the  former  transgression,  and 
yet  are  again  compelled  to  keep  it  ?  Then  were 
the  case  the  same  over  again,  whereas  He  hath 
destroyed  the  very  law  itself.  For  he  says, 
"  Having  abolished  the  law  of  commandments 
contained  in  ordinances."  Oh  !  amazing  lov- 
ing-kindness !  He  gave  us  a  law  that  we  should 
keep  it,  and  when  we  kept  it  not,  and  ought  to 
have  been  punished,  He  even  abrogated  the  law 
itself.  As  if  a  man,  who,  having  committed  a 
child  to  a  schoolmaster,  if  he  should  turn  out 
disobedient,  should  set  him  at  liberty  even  from 
the  schoolmaster,  and  take  him  away.  How 
great  loving-kindness  were  this !  What  is 
meant  by, 

*  [  "The  only  mode  of  taking  *x9f>*¥  in  harmony  with  the  con- 
text is  not  as  Chrysostom,"  but  of  the  enmity  which  existed  between 
Jews  and  Gentiles."— Meyer. 

"*Ev  rji  o-opjct,  'in  the  flesh,*  does  not  belong  to  -rifF  «X*Pa1''  ** 
Chrysostom  construes  it  but  to  xaraf>yi)ffaf,  'having  abolished/  " 
So  Meyer  and  Rev.  Ver.— G.  A.J 


it 


Having  abolished  by  ordinances  ?  "* 
For  he  makes  a  wide  distinction  between 
"commandments"  and  "ordinances."  He 
either  then  means  "faith,"  calling  that  an 
"  ordinance,"  (for  by  faith  alone  He  saved  us,) 
or  he  means  "precept,"  such  as  Christ  gave, 
when  He  said,  "  But  I  say  unto  you,  that  ye 
are  not  to  be  angry  at  all."  (Matt,  v:  22.) 
That  is  to  say,  "If  thou  shalt  believe  that  God 
raised  Him  from  the  dead,  thou  shalt  be  saved." 
(Rom.  x:  6-9.)  And  again,  "The  word  is 
nigh  thee,  in  thy  mouth,  and  in  thine  heart. 
Say  not,  Who  shall  ascend  into  heaven,  or  who 
shall  descend  into  the  abyss?"  or,  who  hath 
"  brought  Him  again  from  the  dead  ?  "  Instead 
of  a  certain  manner  of  life,  He  brought  in  faith. 
For  that  He  might  not  save  us  to  no  purpose, 
He  both  Himself  underwent  the  penalty,  and 
also  required  of  men  the  faith  that  is  by 
doctrines. 

"That  he  might  create  in  Himself  of  the 
twain,  one  new  man." 

Observe  thou,  that  it  is  not  that  the  Gentile  is 
become  a  Jew,  but  that  both  the  one  and  the 
other  are  entered  into  another  condition.  It 
was  not  with  a  view  of  fnerely  making  this  last 
other  than  he  was,  but  rather,  in  order  to  create 
the  two  anew.  And  well  does  he  on  all  occa- 
sions employ  the  word  "  create,"  and  does  not 
say  "  change,"  in  order  to  point  out  the  power 
of  what  was  done,  and  that  even  though  the 
creation  be  invisible,  yet  it  is  no  less  a  creation 
than  that  is,  and  that  we  ought  not  hencefor- 
ward start  away  from  this,  as  from  natural 
things. 

"  That  He  might  in  Himself  of  the  twain." 
That  is,  by  Himself.8  He  gave  not  this 
charge  to  another,  but  Himself,  by  Himself, 
melted  both  the  one  and  the  other,  and  pro- 
duced a  glorious  one,  and  one  greater  than  the 
first  creation  ;  and  that  one,  first,  was  Himself. 
For  this  is  the  meaning  of  "in  Himself."  He 
Himself  first  gave  the  type  and  example.  Lay- 
ing hold  on  the  one  hand  of  the  Jew,  and  on 
the  other  of  the  Gentile,  and  Himself  being  in 
the  midst,  He  blended  them  together,  made  all 
the  estrangement  which  existed  between  them  to 
disappear,  and  fashioned  them  anew  from  above 
by  fire  and  by  water ;  no  longer  with  water  and 
earth,  but  with  water  and  fire.  He  became  a 
Jew  by  circumcision,  He  became  accursed,  He 


*[  The  order  of  the  Greek  is  as  follows  :  thv  v6^lov  rwv  ivroXitv  iv 
&6yfi<uriv  naTafrffi<r*s.  Chrysostom  has  because  of  the  order  joined 
iv  6&yiiaatv  with  Karapyrpat,  as  its  modal  definition.  But  iv 
tbyfiaaiv  belongs  to  ivro\<ov  meaning  '  the  law  of  commandments 
consisting  in  ordinances,'  "  ivrokitv  denoting  the  *  contents  '  of 
thelaw  and  iv  teyiiaaiv  the  '  form  '  in  which  they  were  given*" 
so  Meyer. — G.  Aj 

*[iv  avr? :  "  This  is  not  equivalent  to  <t  favrov,  as  Chrysostom. 
but  it  affirms  that  the  unity  to  be  brought  about  was  to  be  founded 
in  Christ  Himself,  was  to  have  the  basis  of  its  existence  and  con- 
tinuance in  Him  and  not  in  any  other  unifying  principles  what- 
ever."—Meyer.— G.  A.] 


Homily  V.] 


HOMILIES  ON  EPHESIANS. 


73 


became  a  Gentile  without  the  law,  and  was  over 
both  Gentiles  and  Jews. 

"One  new  man,"  saith  he,  "so  making 
peace." 

Peace  for  them  both  towards  God,  and 
towards  each  other.  For  so  long  as  they  con- 
tinued still  Jews  and  Gentiles,  they  could  not 
have  been  reconciled.  And  had  they  not  been 
delivered  each  from  his  own  peculiar  condition, 
they  would  not  have  arrived  at  another  and  a 
higher  one.  For  the  Jew  is  then  united  to  the 
Gentile  when  he  becomes  a  believer.  It  is  like 
persons  being  in  a  house,  with  two  chambers 
below,  and  one  large  and  grand  one  above: 
they  would  not  be  able  to  see  each  other,  till 
they  had  got  above. 

"Making  peace,"  more  especially  towards 
God ;  for  this  the  context  shows,  for  what  saith 
he? 

Ver.  1 6.  "  And  might  reconcile  them  both  in 
one  body  unto  God  through  the  Cross." 

He  saith,  not  merely  "might  reconcile," 
(mt<lU<x*2)  but  "  might  reconcile  thoroughly  " 
(fooxaroyUd^1)  indicating  that  heretofore  human 
nature  had  been  easily  reconciled,  as,  e.  g. ,  in  the 
case  of  the  saints  and  before  the  time  of  the  Law. 

"In  one  body,"  saith  he,  and  that  His  own, 
"unto  God."  How  is  this  effected  ?  By  Him- 
telf,  he  means,  suffering  the  due  penalty.  . 

"  Through  the  cross  having  slain  the  enmity 
thereby."8 

Nothing  can  be  more  decisive,  nothing  more 
expressive  than  these  words.  His  death,  saith 
the  Apostle,  hath  "slain"  the  enmity.  He 
hath  "wounded  "  and  "  killed  "  it,  not  by  giving 
charge  to  another,  nor  by  what  He  wrought 
only,  but  also  by  what  He  suffered.  He  does 
not  say  "  having  dissolved,"  he  does  say  "  hav- 
ing cancelled,"  but  what  is  stronger  than  all, 
"having  slain,"  so  that  it  never  should  rise 
again.  How  then  is  it  that  it  does  rise  again  ? 
From  our  exceeding  depravity.  For  as  long  as 
we  abide  in  the  body  of  Christ,  as  long  as  we 
are  united,  it  rises  not  again,  but  lies  dead  ;  or 
rather  that  former  enmity  never  rises  again  at 
all  But  if  we  breed  another,  it  is  no  longer 
because  of  Him,  who  hath  destroyed  and  put 
to  death  the  former  one.  It  is  thou,  forsooth, 
that  travailest  with  a  fresh  one.  "  For  the  mind 
of  the  flesh,"  saith  he,  "  is  enmity  against  God  ;" 
(Rom.  viii:  6.)  if  we  are  in  nothing  carnally- 
minded,  there  will  be  no  fresh  enmity  produced, 
but  that  "  peace  "  shall  remain. 

Moral.  Think  then,  how  vast  an  evil  is  it,  when 
God  hath  employed  so  many  methods  to  reconcile 

'pieyer  says  the  Aw6  strengthens  the  notion  of  reconciliation. 
Bbcott  that  it  not  only  strengthens  hut  hints  at  a  restoration  to 
primal  unity,  the  iw6  meaning  again. — G.  A.] 

•f" '  After  he  shall  have  slain  the  enmity  &c. ; '  for  it  is  inserted 
line  second  half  of  the  affirmation  of  'design*  and  is  correlative 
tOMsir  cipfor.'*—  Meyer.— G.  A.] 


us,  and  hath  effected  it,  that  we  should  again  fall 
back  into  enmity !  This  enmity  no  fresh  Bap- 
tism, but  hell  itself  awaits;  no  fresh  remission, 
but  searching  trial.  The  mind  of  the  flesh  is 
luxury  and  indolence,  the  "mind  of  the  flesh  " 
is  covetousness  and  all  kinds  of  sin.  Why  is  it  said 
the  mind  of  the  flesh  ?  While  yet  the  flesh 
could  do  nothing  without  the  soul.  He  does 
not  say  this  to  the  disparagement  of  the  flesh, 
any  more  than  when  he  says  the  "  natural  man," 
(i  Cor.  ii :  14.)  he  uses  that  expression  to  the 
disparagement  of  the  soul,  for  neither  body  nor 
soul  in  itself,  if  it  receive  not  the  impulse  which 
is  far  above,  is  able  to  achieve  any  thing  great 
or  noble.  Hence  he  calls  those  acts  which  the 
soul  performs  of  herself,  "natural;  {f'o/fzd"  and 
those  which  the  body  performs  of  itself  "car- 
nal. ' '  Not  because  these  are  natural ,  but  because, 
inasmuch  as  they  receive  not  that  direction  from 
heaven,  they  perish.  So  the  eyes  are  good,  but 
without  light,  will  commit  innumerable  errors  ; 
this,  however,  is  the  fault  of  their  weakness,  not 
of  nature.  Were  the  errors  natural,  then  should 
we  never  be  able  to  use  them  aright  at  all.  For 
nothing  that  is  natural  is  evil.  Why  then  does 
he  call  carnal  affections  sins  ?  Because  when- 
ever the  flesh  exalts  herself,  and  gets  the  mastery 
over  her  charioteer,  she  produces  ten  thousand 
mischiefs.  The  virtue  of  the  flesh  is,  her  sub- 
jection to  the  soul.  It  is  her  vice  to  govern  the 
soul.  As  the  horse  then  may  be  good  and  nim- 
ble, and  yet  this  is  not  shown  without  a  rider ; 
so  also  the  flesh  will  then  show  her  goodness, 
when  we  cut  off  her  prancings.  But  neither 
again  is  the  rider  shown,  if  he  have  not  skill. 
Nay  he  himself  will  do  mischief  yet  more  fear- 
ful than  that  before  named.  So  %that  on  all 
hands  we  must  have  the  Spirit  at  hand.  This 
being  at  hand  will  impart  new  strength  to  the 
rider;  this  will  give  beauty  both  to  body 
and  soul.  For  just  as  the  soul,  while  dwelling 
in  the  body,  makes  it  beautiful,  but  when  she 
leaves  it  destitute  of  her  own  native  energy  and 
departs,  like  a  painter  confounding  his  colors 
together,  the  greatest  loathsomeness  ensues, 
every  one  of  the  several  parts  hastening  to  cor- 
ruption, and  dissolution  : — so  is  it  also  when 
the  Spirit  forsakes  the  body  and  the  soul,  the 
loathsomeness  which  ensues  is  worse  and  greater. 
Do  not  then,  because  the  body  is  inferior  to  the 
soul,  revile  it,  for  neither  do  I  endure  to  revile 
the  soul  because  it  hath  no  strength  without  the 
Spirit.  If  one  need  say  anything  at  all,  the 
soul  is  deserving  of  the  greater  censure  than  the 
body ;  for  the  body  indeed  can  do  no  grevious 
harm  without  the  soul,  whereas  the  soul  can  do 
much  without  the  body.  Because,  we  know, 
when  the  one  is  even  wasting  away,  and  has 
no  wantonness,  the  soul  is  busily  em- 
ployed.    Even  as  those  sorcerers,    magicians, 


74 


WORKS  OF  ST.  CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Chapter  VL 


envious  persons,  enchanters,  especially  cause 
the  body  to  waste  away.  But  besides  this,  not 
even  luxury  is  the  effect  of  the  necessity  of  the 
body,  but  rather  of  the  inattentiveness  of  the 
soul;  for  food,  not  feasting,  is  the  object  of  the 
necessity  of  the  body.  For  if  I  have  a  mind  to 
put  on  a  strong  curb,  Istop  the  horse  ;  but  the 
body  is  unable  to  check  the  soul  in  her  evil 
courses.  Wherefore  then  does  he  call  it  the 
carnal  mind  ?  Because  it  comes  to  be  wholly 
of  the  flesh,  for  when  she  has  the  mastery,  then 
she  goes  wrong,  as  soon  as  ever  she  has  deprived 
herself  of  reason,  and  of  the  supremacy  of  the 
soul.  The  virtue  therefore  of  the  body  consists 
in  this,  in  its  submission  to  the  soul,  since  of 
itself  the  flesh  is  neither  good  nor  evil.  For 
what  could  the  body  ever  do  of  itself?  It  is 
then  by  its  connection  that  the  body  is  good, 
good  because  of  its  subjection,  but  of  itself 
neither  good  nor  evil,  with  capacity,  however, 
both  for  one  and  for  the  other,  and  having  an 
equal  tendency  either  way.  The  body  has  a 
natural  desire,  not  however  of  fornication,  nor 
of  adultery,  but  of  pleasure  ;  the  body  has  a 
desire  not  of  feasting,  but  of  food;  not  of 
drunkenness,  but  of  drink.  For  in  proof 
that  it  is  not  drunkenness  that  is  the  natural  de- 
sire of  the  body,  mark  how,  whenever  you  ex- 
ceed the  measure,  when  you  go  beyond  the 
boundary-lines,  it  cannot  hold  out  a  moment 
longer.  Up  to  this  point  it  is  of  the  body,  but 
all  the  rest  of  the  excesses,  as  e.  g.,  when  she  is 
hurried  away  ento  sensualities,  when  she  becomes 
stupefied,  these  are  of  the  soul.     For  though 


the  body  be  good,  still  it  is  vastly  inferior  to  the 
soul,  as  lead  is  less  of  value  than  gold,  and  yet 
gold  needs  lead  to  solder  it,  and  just  so  has  the 
soul  need  also  of  the  body.  Or  in  the  same 
way  as  a  noble  child  requires  a  conductor, 
so  again  does  the  soul  stand  in  need  of  the 
body.  For,  as  we  speak  of  childish  things, 
not  to  the  disparagement  of  childhood,  but 
only  of  those  acts  which  are  done  during  child- 
hood ;  so  also  are  we  now  speaking  of  the 
body. 

Yet  it  is  in  our  power,  if  we  will,  no  longer 
to  be  in  the  flesh,  no,  nor  upon  the  earth,  but  in 
heaven,  and  in  the  Spirit.  For  our  being  here 
or  there,  is  not  determined  so  much  by  our  posi- 
tion, as  by  our  disposition.  Of  many  people, 
at  least,  who  are  in  some  place,  we  say  they  are 
not  there,  when  we  say,  "Thou  wast  not  here. 
And  again  Thou  art  not  here."  And  why  do  I 
say  this  ?  We  often  say,  "  Thou  art  not  at  Uv) 
thyself,  I  am  not  at  (h)  myself,"  and  yet  what 
can  be  more  material  (a  stronger  instance  of 
corporeal  locality)  than  this,  that  a  man  is  near 
to  himself  ?  And  yet,  notwithstanding,  we  say 
that  he  is  not  at  himself.  Let  us  then  be  in 
ourselves,  in  heaven,  in  the  Spirit.  Let  us 
abide  in  the  peace  and  in  the  grace  of  God, 
that  we  may  be  set  at  liberty  from  all  the  things 
of  the  flesh,  and  may  be  able  to  attain  to  those 
good  things  which  are  promised  in  Jesus  Christ 
our  Lord,  with  whom  to  the  Father,  together 
with  the  Holy  Spirit,  be  glory,  and  might,  and 
honor,  now  and  henceforth,  and  for  ever  and 
ever.     Amen. 


HOMILY   VI. 

Chapter  ii.     Verses  17-22. 


*  And  He  came  and  preached  peace  to  you  that  were  far 
off,  and  peace  to  them  that  were  nigh,  for  through 
Him  we  txrth  have  our  access  in  one  Spirit  unto  the 
Father.  So  then  ye  are  no  more  strangers  and  so- 
journers, but  ye  are  fellow-citizens  with  the  saints, 
and  of  the  household  of  God,  being  built  upon  the 
foundation  of  the  Apostles  and  Prophets,  Christ 
Jesus  Himself  being  the  chief  corner-stone.  In 
whom  each  several  building,  fitly  framed  together, 
groweth  into  a  holy  temple  in  the  Lord.  In  whom 
ye  also  are  builded  together  for  a  habitation  of  God 
in  the  Spirit." 

He  sent  not,  saith  the  Apostle,  by  the  hand 
of  another,  nor  did  He  announce  these  tidings 
to  us  by  means  of  any  other,  but  Himself  did 
it  in  His  own  person.     He  sent  not  Angel  nor 


Archangel  on  the  mission,  because  to  repair  so 
many  and  vast  mischiefs  and  to  declare  what 
had  been  wrought  was  in  the  power  of  none 
other,  but  required  His  own  coming.1  The 
1-ord  then  took  upon  Himself  the  rank  of  a  ser- 
vant, nay,  almost  of  a  minister,  "and  came, 
and  preached  peace  to  you,"  saith  he,  "that 
were  far  off,  and  to  them  that  were  nigh."  To 
the  Jews,  he  means,  who  as  compared  with  our- 


1  fThis  passage  does  not  refer  to  His  bodily  advent  upon  earth, 
as  Chrysostom  interprets,  but  following  the  account  of  his  crucifix- 
ion more  naturally  refers  to  a  spiritual  advent,  namely  in  the  Holy 
Spirit,  (in  so  far  as  it  is  Christ's  spirit)  Christ  Himself  came.  He 
is  our  peace  ;  yes,  and  He  came  and  by  His  spirit  and  the  mouths 
of  the  Apostles  He  preached  it.— Meyer  and  Ellicott.— G.  A.] 


Homily  VI.] 


HOMILIES  ON  EPHESIANS. 


75 


selves  were  nigh.  "  For  through  Him  we  both 
have  our  access  in  one  Spirit  unto  the  Father." 

" Peace/ '  saith  he,  that  "peace"  which  is 
towards  God.  He  hath  reconciled  us.  For  the 
Lord  Himself  also  saith,  "  Peace  I  leave  with 
you ;  my  peace  I  give  unto  you."  (Jo.  xiv  127.) 
And  again,  "  Be  of  good  cheer,  I  have  over- 
come the  world."  (Jo.  xvi :  33.)  And  again, 
"  Whatsoever  ye  shall  ask  in  my  name  that  will 
I  do."  (Jo.  xiv:  14.)  And  again,  "  For  the 
Father  loveth  you."  (Jo.  xvi:  27.)  These  are 
so  many  evidences  of  peace.  But  how  towards 
the  Gentiles?  "  Because  through  Him  we  both 
have  our  access  in  one  Spirit  unto  the  Father," 
not  ye  less,  and  they  -more,  but  all  by  one 
and  the  same  grace.  The  wrath  He  appeased 
by  His  death,  and  hath  made  us  meet  for  the 
Father's  love  through  the  Spirit.  Mark  again, 
the  "in"  means  "by"  or  "through."  By 
Himself  and  the  Spirit  that  is,  He  hath  brought 
us  unto  the  Father.  ' '  So  then  ye  are  no  more 
strangers  and  sojourners,  but  fellow-citizens 
with  the  saints." 

Perceive  ye  that  it  is  not  with  the  Jews 
simply,  no,  but  with  those  saintly  and  great 
men,  such  as  Abraham,  and  Moses,  and  Elias? 
It  is  for  the  self-same  city  with  these  we 
we  enrolled,  for  that  we  declare  ourselves. 
"For  they  that  say  such  things,"  saith  he, 
"  make  it  manifest  that  they  are  seeking  after 
a  country  of  their  own."  (Heb.  xi:  14.)  No 
longer  are  we  strangers  from  the  saints,  nor 
foreigners.  For  they  who  shall  not  attain  to 
heavenly  blessings,  are  foreigners.  "For  the 
Son,"  saith  Christ,  "abideth  for  ever."    (Jo. 

™:  350 
"And  of  the  household,"  he  continues,  "of 

God." 

The  very  thing  which  they  at  the  first  had, 
by  means  of  so  many  toils  and  troubles,  hath 
been  for  you  accomplished  by  the  grace  of  God. 
Behold  the  hope  of  your  calling. 

"Being  built  upon  the  foundation  of  the 
Apostles  and  Prophets." 

Observe  how  he  blends  all  together,  the  Gen- 
tiles, the  Jews,1  the  Apostles,  the  Prophets,  and 
Christ,  and  illustrates  the  union  sometimes  from 
the  body,  and  sometimes  from  the  building: 
"built,"  saith  he,  "upon  the  foundation  of  the 
Apostles  and  Prophets;  "  that  is,  the  Apostles 
and  Prophets  are  a  foundation,2  and  he  places 
the  Apostles  first,  though  they  are  in  order  of 
time  last,  doubtless  to  represent  and  express 
this,  that  both  the  one  and  the  other  are  alike  a 


[field's  text  has  not  the  words,  "  the  Jews ;"  but  as  there  is 
JtteDent  authority  for  them  and  they  suit  the  context  better,  we 
«*eleft  them,  with  the  Oxford  translator,  in  our  text.— G.  A.] 

["It  is  wrong  to  take  this  genitive  as  the  genitive  of  apposi- 
£*t  **  Chrysostom,  for  the  Apostles  and  Prophets  are  not  the 
JWMstion  but  have  laid  it.  (t  Cor.  iii :  xo.)  Nor  are  the  Prophets 
*?e  mentioned  O.  T.  prophets  but  N.  T.  prophets,  (cf.  iii :  5 ;  iv  : 
")  -Meyer."— G.  A} 


foundation,  and  that  the  whole  is  one  building, 
and  that  there  is  one  root.  Consider,  that  the 
Gentiles  have  the  Patriachs  as  a  foundation.  He 
here  speaks  more  strongly  of  that  point  than  he 
does  when  he  speaks  of  a  "grafting in."  There 
he  rather  attaches  them  on.  Then  he  adds, 
that  He  who  binds  the  whole  together  in  Christ. 
For  the  chief  corner-stone  binds  together  both 
the  walls,  and  the  foundations. 

"  In  whom  each  several  building." 

Mark,  how  he  knits  it  all  together,  and  repre- 
sents Him  at  one  time,  as  holding  down  the 
whole  body  from  above,  and  welding  it  together ; 
at  another  time,  as  supporting  the  building  from 
below,  and  being,  as  it  were,  a  root,  or  base. 
And  whereas  he  had  used  the  expression,  "  He 
created  in  Himself  of  the  twain  one  new  man  ;  " 
(Eph.  ii :  15.)  by  this  he  clearly  shows  us,  that 
by  Himself  Christ  knits  together  the  two  walls : 
and  again,  that  in  Him  it  was  created.  And 
"  He  is  the  first-born,"3  saith  he,  "  of  all  crea- 
tion," that  is,  He  Himself  supports  all  things. 

"  In  whom  each  several  building,  fitly 
framed  together." 

Whether  you  speak  of  the  roof,  or  of  the 
walls,  or  of  any  other  part  whatsoever,4  He  it  is 
supports  the  whole.  Thus  he  elsewhere  calls 
Him  a  foundation.  "For  other  foundations," 
saith  he,  "can  no  man  lay  than  that  which  is 
laid,  which  is  Jesus  Christ."  (1  Cor.  iii:  n.) 
"In  whom  each  several  building,"  he  saith, 
"  fitly  framed  together."  Here  he  displays  the 
perfectness  of  it,  and  indicates  that  one  cannot 
otherwise  have  place  in  it,  unless  by  living  with 
great  exactness.  "Itgroweth  saith  he  into  a 
holy  temple  in  the  Lord,  in  whom  ye  also,"  he 
adds,  "are  builded  together."  He  is  speaking 
continuously  :  "  Into  a  holy  temple,  for  a  habi- 
tation of  God  in  the  Spirit."  What  then  is  the 
object  of  this  building  ?  It  is  that  God  may 
dwell  in  this  temple.  For  each  of  you  severally 
is  a  temple,  and  all  of  you  together  are  a  tem- 
ple. And  He  dwelleth  in  you  as  in  the  body  of 
Christ,  and  as  in  a  spiritual  temple.  He  does  not 
use  the  word  which  means  our  coming  to  God, 
(xpdffodos)  but  which  implies  God's  bringing  us 
to  Himself,  {^poaayioY^)  for  we  came  not  out  of 

"  Col.  i :  15.  i.  e. .  "  Begotten  before  every  creature  ; "  "  begot- 
ten of  His  Father  before  all  worlds."  It  is  explained  of  our  Lord's 
divine  nature  by  Origen,  Periarch.  i.  2.  Tertullian  in  Prax.  7.  in 
Marcion,  v.  10.  S.  Hilar,  de  Trin.  viii.  50.  S.  Ambros.  de.  Fid.  i. 
14.  S.  Basil  in  Eunom.  iv.  in  Col.  i.  15.  Others  understand  the  ex- 
pression to  denote  the  Only-Begotten  considered  as  becoming  the 
origin  of  the  new  creation,— as  beginning  in  His  flesh,  as  being  the 
Only-Begotten,  the  regenerate  world.  Thus  S.  Athanasius  Orat. 
iii.  62.  63.  S.  Greg.  Nyss.  de  Perfect,  p.  72a.  contra.  Eunom.  i.  p. 
24.  iii.  pp.  11*.  114.  S.  Cyril,  de  Trin.  iv.  p.  518.  S.  August,  in 
Rom.  56  Theodoret  interprets  the  word  in  both  ways,  in  loc.  and  in 
Ps.  88,  28.  S.  Chrysostom  too,  Horn.  Son.  Col.  i.  15.  may  be  under- 
stood according  .to  either  interpretation.  Indeed  they  are  quite 
consistent  with  each  other. 

4  [y  Chrysostom  is  wrong  in  holding  that  by  nava  01*060^17  is 
signified  every  *  part '  of  the  building  (wall,  roof,  etc.,)  since 
oZftoftopi?  rather  denotes  the  *  aggregate '  of  the  single  parts  of 
the  building.  Dcura  oucodopit  means  '  every  building  '  and  is  here 
to  be  interpreted,  '  every  Christian  community,  each  congrega- 
tion.' "— Aieyer— G.  A.f 


76 


WORKS  OF  ST.  CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  VL 


ourselves,  but  we  were  brought  nigh  by  Him. 
"No  one,"  saith  Christ,  "cometh  unto  the 
Father  but  by  Me."  And  again,  "I  am  the 
way,  and  the  truth,  and  the  life."  (Jo.  xiv :  6.) 

He  joins  them  with  the  Saints  and  again  re- 
turns to  his  former  image,  nowhere  suffering 
them  to  be  disunited  from  Christ.  Doubtless 
then,  this  is  a  building  that  shall  go  on  until 
His  coming.  Doubtlesss  it  was  for  this  reason 
that  Paul  said,  "As  a  wise  master  builder,  I 
laid  a  foundation."  (i  Cor.  iii:  10,  n.)  And 
again  that  Christ  is  the  foundation.  What  then 
means  all  this  ?  You  observe  that  the  compari- 
sons have  all  referred  to  the  subject-matters,  and 
that  we  must  not  expound  them  to  the  very  let- 
ter. The  Apostle  speaks  from  analogy  as  Christ 
does,  where  He  calls  the  Father  an  husband- 
man, (Jo.  xv :  i.)  and  Himself  a  root.  (Rev. 
xxii :  16.) 

Chap.  iii.  ver.  i.  "  For  this  cause  I  Paul, 
the  prisoner  of  Christ  Jesus  in  behalf  of  you 
Gentiles." 

He  has  mentioned  Christ's  great  and  affec- 
tionate care ;  he  now  passes  on  to  his  own,  in- 
significant indeed  as  it  is,  and  a  very  nothing  in 
comparison  with  that,  and  yet  this  is  enough  to 
engage  them  to  himself.  For  this  cause,  saith 
he,  am  I  also  bound.1  For  if  my  Lord  was 
crucified  for  your  sakes,  much  more  am  I  bound. 
He  not  only  was  bound  Himself,  but  allows 
His  servants  to  be  bound  also, — "  for  you  Gen- 
tiles." It  is  full  of  emphasis;  not  only  do  we 
no  longer  loathe  you,  but  we  are  even  bound, 
saith  he,  for  your  sakes,  and  of  this  exceeding 
grace  am  I  partaker. 

Ver.  2.  "  If  so  be  that  ye  have  heard  of  the 
dispensation  of  that  grace  of  God,  which  was 
given  me  to  you- ward." 

He  alludes  to  the  prediction  addressed  to 
Ananias  concerning  him  at  Damascus,  when 
the  Lord  said,  "  Go  thy  way,  for  he  is  a  chosen 
vessel  unto  Me,  to  bear  My  name  before  the 
Gentiles  and  Kings."  (Acts  ix:   15.) 

By  "  dispensation  of  grace,"  he  means  the 
revelation  made  to  him.  As  much  as  to  say, 
"  I  learned  it  not  from  man.  (Gal.  i :  12.)  He 
vouchsafed  to  reveal  it  even  to  me,  though  but 
an  individual  for  your  sakes.  For  Himself  said 
unto  me,  saith  he,  "  Depart,  for  I  will  send 
thee  forth  far  hence  unto  the  Gentiles."  (Acts 
xxii :  21.)  "  If  so  be  that  ye  have  heard  "  for  a 
dispensation  it  was,  a  mighty  one ;  to  call  one, 
uninfluenced  from  any  other  quarter,  imme- 
diately from  above,  and  to  say,  "  Saul,  Saul, 
why  persecutest  thou  Me?"  and  to  strike  him 
blind  with  that  ineffable  light !   "  if  so  be  that 

1  [  The  Syraic  Version  followed  by  commentators  from  Chrysos- 
torn  to  Meyer  makes  b  ifofno*  predicate,  supplying  "  am.'r  "  I 
Paul  am  the  prisoner  of  Christ  Jesus  for  you  Gentiles."  This  is  open 
to  grave  objections.  'O  <capo«  is  rather  in  apposition  and  the  broken 
construction  is  resumed  at  ver.  14.— Riddle,  Ellicott,  Alford, 
Braune.  R.  V.  Cora  p.  4:  x. — G.  A.] 


ye  have  heard,1  saith  he,  "of  the  dispensation 
of  that  grace  of  God  which  was  given  me  to 
you-ward." 

Ver.  3.  "How  that  by  revelation  was  made 
known  unto  me  the  mystery,  as  I  wrote  afore  in 
few  words." 

Perhaps  he  had  informed  them  of  it  by  some 
persons,  or  had  not  long  before  been  writing  to 
them.3  Here  he  is  pointing  out  that  the  whole 
is  of  God,  that  we  have  contributed  nothing. 
For  what?  I  ask,  was  not  Paul  himself,  the 
wonderful,  he  that  was  so  versed  in  the  law,  he 
that  was  brought  up  at  the  feet  of  Gamaliel  ac- 
cording to  the  most  perfect  manner,  was  not  he 
saved  by  grace  ?  With  good  reason  too  does  he 
call  this  a  mystery,  for  a  mystery  it  is,  to  raise 
the  Gentiles  in  a  moment  to  a  higher  rank  than 
the  Jews.  "As  I  wrote  afore,"  saith  he,  "in 
few  words,"  i.  e.,  briefly, 

Ver.  4.  "Whereby,  when  ye  read,  ye  can 
perceive." 

Amazing  !  So  then  he  wrote  not  the  whole, 
nor  so  much  as  he  should  have  written.  But 
here  the  nature  of  the  subject  prevented  it. 
Elsewhere,  as  in  the  case  of  the  Hebrews  (Heb. 
v:  11.)  and  the  Corinthians,  (i  Cor.  iii:  2.) the 
incapacity  of  the  hearers.  "Whereby,  when 
ye  read,  ye  can  perceive,"  saith  he,  "  my  un- 
derstanding in  the  mystery  of  Christ,"  i.  e., 
how  I  knew,  how  I  understood  either  such 
things  as  God  hath  spoken,  or  else,  that  Christ 
sitteth  at  the  right  hand  of  God ;  and  then  too 
the  dignity,  in  that  God  "hath  not  dealt  so 
with  any  nation."  (Ps.  cxlvii:  20.)  And  then  to 
explain  what  nation  this  is  with  whom  God 
hath  thus  dealt,  he  adds, 

Ver.  5.  "Which  in  other  generations  was 
not  made  known  unto  the  sons  of  men,  as  it 
hath  now  been  revealed  unto  His  holy  Apostles 
and  Prophets  in  the  Spirit." 

What  then,  tell  me,  did  not  the  Prophets4 
know  it?  How  then  doth  Christ  say,  that  Moses 
and  the  Prophets  wrote  "these  things  concern- 
ing Me?"  And  again,  "If  ye  believed  Moses, 
ye  would  believe  Me."  ( John  v :  46.)  And 
again,  "  Ye  search  the  Scriptures,  because  ye 
think  that  in  them  ye  have  eternal  life,  and 
these  are  they  which  bear  witness  of  me." 
(John  v:  39.)  His  meaning  is  this,  either 
that  it  was  not  revealed  unto  all  men,  for  he 
adds,  "which  in  other  generations  was  not 
made  known  unto  the  sons  of  men,  as  it  hath 
now  been  revealed  ;  "  or  else,  that  it  was  not 
thus  made  known  by  the  very  facts  and  realities 

*  ["  Gentle  appeal,  expressed  in  a  hypothetical  form  and  con- 
veying the  hope  that  his  words  had  not  been  forgotten."— Ellicott. 
— G.  A  J 

*  ["  This  parenthetical  remark  of  the  Apostle  refers  not  to  a  lost 
letter  but  to  the  section  last  treated  of  concerning  the  Gentiles  at- 
taining salvation." — Meyer. — G.  A.] 

*  [Prophets  here  refers,  as  before,  to  New  Testament  prophets, 
and  not,  as  Chrysostom  understands  it,  to  O.  T.  phophets.— G.  A.] 


Homily  VL] 


HOMILIES  ON  EPHESIANS. 


77 


themselves,  "as  it  hath  now  been  revealed  unto 
His  holy  Apostles  and  Prophets  in  the  Spirit." 
For  reflect.  Peter,  had  he  not  been  instructed 
by  the  Spirit,  never  would  have  gone  to  the 
Gentiles.  For  hear  what  he  says,  "  Then  hath 
God  given  unto  them  the  Holy  Ghost,  as  well 
as  unto  us."  (Acts  x :  47.)  That  it  was  by  the 
Spirit  that  God  chose  that  they  should  receive 
the  grace.  The  Prophets  then  spoke,  yet  they 
knew  it  not  thus  perfectly ;  so  far  from  it,  that 
not  even  did  the  Apostles,  after  they  had  heard 
it  So  far  did  it  surpass  all  human  calculation, 
and  the  common  expectation. 

Ver.  6.  "  That  the  Gentiles  are  fellow-heirs, 
and  fellow-members  of  the  body  and  fellow- 
partakers."1 

What  is  this;  "fellow-heirs,  and  fellow-par- 
takers of  the  promise,  and  fellow-members  of 
the  body  ?  "  This  last  is  the  great  thing,  that 
they  should  be  one  body ;  this  exceeding  close- 
ness of  relation  to  Him.  For  that  they  were  to 
be  called  indeed,  that  they  knew,  but  that  it 
was  so  great,  as  yet  they  knew  not.  This  there- 
fore he  calls  the  mystery.  "Of  the  promise.' • 
The  Israelites  were  partakers,  and  the  Gentiles 
also  were  fellow-partakers  of  the  promise  of 
God. 

"In  Christ  Jesus  through  the  Gospel." 

That  is,  by  His  being  sent  unto  them  also, 
and  by  their  believing ;  for  it  is  not  said  they 
are  fellow-heirs  simply,  but  "  through  the  Gos- 
pel." However,  this  indeed,  is  nothing  so  great, 
it  is  in  fact  a  small  thing,  and  it  discloses  to  us 
another  and  greater  thing,  that  not  only  men 
knew  not  this,  but  that  neither  Angels  nor  Arch- 
angels, nor  any  other  created  power,  knew  it. 
For  it  was  a  mystery,  and  was  not  revealed. 
"That  ye  can  perceive,"  he  saith,  "  my  under- 
standing." This  alludes,  perhaps,  to  what  he 
said  to  them  in  the  Acts,  that  he  had  some 
knowledge  that  the  Gentiles  also  were  called. 
This,  he  says,  is  his  own  knowledge,  "the 
knowledge  of  the  mystery,"  which  he  had  men- 
tioned, viz.,  "  that  Christ  will  in  Himself  make 
of  the  twain  one  new  man."  For  by  revela- 
tion he  was  instructed,  both  he  and  Peter,  that 
they  must  not  spurn  the  Gentiles;  and  this  he 
states  in  his  defence. 

Ver.  7.  "  Whereof  I  was  made  a  minister, 
according  to  the  gift  of  that  grace  of  God  which 
was  given  me  according  to  the  working  of  His 
power." 

He  had  said,  "I  am  a  prisoner;  "  but  now 
again  he  says,  that  all  is  of  God,  as  he  says, 
"according   to   the   gift   of  His  grace;"  for 

1  ["Fellow-heirs  (l«rvyit\iiftov6fia)  denotes  the  joint  possession 
»ith  the  believing  jews  of  the  eternal  Messianic  bliss.  — Meyer. 
"Tbe  following  words  (trvatrmfia  mat  av/xfi«roxa),  which  seem  to 
have  been  coined  by  the  apostle,  are  well  rendered  by  R.  V., 
'fellow-members  of  the  body,  and  fellow-partakers,'  and  bring  out 
Bore  fully  the  relation  of  the  fellow-heirs  to  each  other."— Riddle. 
-G.A.] 


according  to  the  power  of  the  gift  is  the  dignity 
of  this  privilege.  But  the  gift  would  not  have 
been  enough,  had  it  not  also  implanted  in  him 
power. 

Moral.  For  a  work  indeed  it  was  of  power,  of 
mighty  power,  and  such  as  no  human  diligence 
was  equal  to.  For  he  brought  three  qualifications 
to  the  preaching  of  the  word,  a  zeal  fervent  and 
venturous,  a  soul  ready  to  undergo  any  possible 
hardship,  and  knowledge  and  wisdom  combined. 
For  his  love  of  enterprise,  his  blamelessness  of 
life,  had  availed  nothing,  had  he  not  also  re- 
ceived the  power  of  the  Spirit.  And  look  at  it 
as  seen  first  in  himself,  or  rather  hear  his  own 
words.  ' '  That  our  ministration  be  not  blamed. ' ' 
(2  Cor.  vi:  3.)  And  again,  "  For  our  exhorta- 
tion, is  not  of  error,  nor  of  uncleanness,  nor  in 
guile,  nor  a  cloke  of  covetousness. "  (1  Thes.  ii: 
3,  5.)  Thus  thou  hast  seen  his  blamelessness. 
And  again,  "  For  we  take  thought  for  things 
honorable,  not  only  in  the  sight  of  the  Lord,  but 
also  in  the  sight  of  men."  (2  Cor.  viii :  21.) 
Then  again,  besides  these ;  "I  protest  by  that 
glorying  in  you  which  I  have  in  Christ  Jesus  our 
Lord,  I  die  daily."  (1  Cor.  xv:  31.)  And  again; 
"Who  shall  separate  us  from  the  love  of  Christ  ? 
shall  tribulation,  or  anguish,  or  persecution?  " 
(Rom.  viii:  35.)  And  again;  "In  much 
patience,  in  afflictions,  in  necessities,  in  dis- 
tresses, in  stripes,  in  imprisonments,  in  watch- 
ings."  (2  Cor.  vi :  4,  5.)  Then  again,  his 
prudence  and  management;  "To  the  Jews  I 
became  as  a  Jew,  to  them  that  are  without  law 
as  without  law,  to  them  that  are  under  the  law 
as  under  the  law."  (1  Cor.  ix  :  20.)  He  shaves 
his  head  also,  (Acts,  xxi :  24-26.)  and  does 
numberless  things  of  the  sort.  But  the  crown 
of  all  is  in  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost.  '  '  For 
I  will  not  dare  to  speak,"  saith  he,  "of  any 
things  save  those  which  Christ  wrought  through 
me."  (Rom.  xv:  18.)  And  again,  "For  what 
is  there  wherein  you  were  made  inferior  to  the 
rest  of  the  Churches  ?  "  (2  Cor.  xii :  13.)  And 
again,  "  For  in  nothing  was  I  behind  the  very 
chiefest  Apostles  though  I  am  nothing."  (2  Cor. 
xii:  ii.)  Without  these  things,  the  work  had 
been  impossible. 

It  was  not  then  by  his  miracles  that  men  were 
made  believers;  no,  it  was  not  the  miracles  that 
did  this,  nor  was  it  upon  the  ground  of  these 
that  he  claimed  his  high  pretension,  but  upon 
those  other  grounds.  For  a  man  must  be  alike 
irreproachable  in  conduct,  prudent  and  discreet 
in  his  dealings  with  others,  regardless  of  danger, 
and  apt  to  teach.  It  was  by  these  qualifications 
that  the  greater  part  of  his  success  was  achieved. 
Where  there  were  these,  there  was  no  need  of 
miracles.  At  least  we  see  he  was  successful  in 
numberless  such  cases,  quite  antecedently  to  the 
use  of  miracles.     But,  now-a-days,  we  without 


78 


WORKS  OF  ST.  CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  VL 


any  of  these  would  fain  command  all  things. 
Yet  if  one  of  them  be  separated  from  the  other , 
it  henceforth  becomes  useless.  What  is  the 
advantage  of  a  man's  being  ever  so  regardless 
of  danger,  if  his  life  be  open  to  censure.  "  For 
if  the  light  that  is  in  thee  be  darkness,"  saith 
Christ,  "  how  great  is  that  darkness  ?  "  (Mat.  vi : 
23.)  Again,  what  the  advantage  of  a  man's 
being  of  an  irreproachable  life,  if  he  is  sluggish 
and  indolent  ?  "  For,  he  that  doth  not  take  his 
cross,  and  follow  after  Me,"  saith  He,  "is  not 
worthy  of  Me  ;  "  (Mat.  x :  38.)  and  so,  "  The 
good  shepherd  layeth  down  his  life  for  the 
sheep."  (Jo.  x:  11.)  Again,  what  is  the  advan- 
tage of  being  both  these,  unless  a  man  is  at  the 
same  time  prudent  and  discreet  in  "knowing 
how  he  ought  to  answer  each  one?"  (Col. 
iv :  6. )  Even  if  miracles  be  not  in  our  power, 
yet  both  these  qualities  are  in  our  power.  Still 
howe/er,  notwithstanding  Paul  contributed  so 
much  from  himself,  yet  did  he  attribute  all  to 
grace.  This  is  the  act  of  a  grateful  servant. 
And  we  should  never  so  much  as  have  heard  of 
his  good  deeds,  had  he  not  beej  brought  to  a 
necessity  of  declaring  them. 

And  are  we  worthy  then  so  much  as  even  to 
mention  the  name  of  Paul?  He,  who  had 
moreover  grace  to  aid  him,  yet  was  not  satisfied, 
but  contributed  to  the  work  ten  thousand  perils ; 
whilst  we,  who  are  destitute  of  that  source  of 
confidence,  whence,  tell  me,  do  we  expect 
either  to  preserve  those  who  are  committed  to 
our  charge,  or  to  gain  those  who  are  not 
come  to  the  fold; — men,  as  we  are,  who  have 
been  making  a  study  of  self-indulgence,  who  are 
searching  the  world  over  for  ease,  and  who  are 
unable,  or  rather  who  are  unwilling,  to  endure 
even  the  very  shadow  of  danger,  and  are  as  far 
distant  from  his  wisdom  as  heaven  is  from  earth  ? 
Hence  it  is  too  that  they  who  are  under  us  are 
at  so  great  a  distance  behind  the  men  of  those 
days ;  because  the  disciples  of  those  days  were 
better  than  the  teachers  of  these,  isolated  as  they 
were  in  the  midst  of  the  populace,  and  of  tyrants, 
and  having  all  men  on  all  sides  their  enemies,  and 
yet  not  in  the  slightest  degree  dragged  down  or 
yielding.  Hear  at  least  what  he  saith  to  the 
Philippians,  (Phil,  i :  29.)  "Because  to  you  it 
hath  been  granted  in  the  behalf  of  Christ,  not 
only  to  believe  on  Him,  but  also  to  suffer  in  his 
behalf. ' '  And  again  to  the  Thessalonians,  ( 1  Thes. 
ii :  14.)  "For  ye,  brethren,  became  imitators 
of  the  churches  of  God  which  are  in  Judaea." 
And  again  in  writing  to  the  Hebrews  (Heb.  x  : 
34.)  he  said,  "  And  ye  took  joyfully  the  spoil- 
ing of  your  pessessions. "  And  to  the  Colos- 
sians  (Col.  iii :  3.)  he  testifies,  saying,  "  For  ye 
died,  and  your  life  is  hid  with  Christ  in  God." 
And  indeed  to  these  very  Ephesians  he  bears 
witness  of  many  perils  and  dangers.     And  again 


in  writing  to  the  Galatians,  (Gal.  iii  14.)  he 
says,  "  Did  ye  suffer  so  many  things  in  vain? 
if  it  be  indeed  in  vain."  And  you  see  them 
too,  all  employed  in  doing  good.  Hence  it  was 
that  both  grace  wrought  effectually  in  those 
days,  hence  also  that  they  lived  in  good  works. 
Hear,  moreover,  what  he  writes  to  the  Corin- 
thians, against  whom  he  brings  charges  out  of 
number ;  yet  does  he  not  bear  even  them  record, 
where  he  says,  "Yea,  what  zeal  it  wrought  in 
you,  yea,  what  longing!"  (1  Cor.  vii :  11.) 
And  again,  in  how  many  points  does  he  bear 
them  record  on  this  subject?  These  things  one 
shall  not  see  now-a-days,  even  in  teachers.  They 
are  all  gone  and  perished.  And  the  cause  is, 
that  love  hath  waxed  cold,  that  sinners  go  un- 
punished ;  (for  hear  what  he  says  writing  to 
Timothy,  (iTim.  v:  20.)  "  Them  that  sin,  re- 
prove in  the  sight  of  all ;  ")  it  is  that  the  rulers 
are  in  a  sickly  state;  for  if  the  head  be  not 
sound,  how  can  the  rest  of  the  body  maintain 
its  vigor  ?  But  mark  how  great  is  the  present 
disorder.  They,  who  were  living  virtuously,  and 
who  under  any  circumstance  might  have  confi- 
dence, have  taken  possession  of  the  tops  of  the 
mountains,1  and  have  escaped  out  of  the  world, 
separating  themselves  as  from  an  enemy  and  an 
alien  and  not  from  a  body  to  which  they  be- 
longed. 

Plagues  too,  teeming  with  untold  mischiefs, 
have  lighted  upon  the  Churches.  The  chief 
offices  have  become  saleable.2  Hence  number- 
less evils  are  springing,  and  there  is  no  one  to 
redress,  no  one  to  reprove  them.  Nay,  the  dis- 
order has  assumed  a  sort  of  method  and  consis- 
tency. Has  a  man  done  wrong,  and  been 
arraigned  for  it  ?  His  effort  is  not  to  prove 
himself  guiltless,  but  to  find  if  possible  accom- 
plices in  his  crimes.  What  is  to  become  of  us  ? 
since  hell  is  our  threatened  portion.  Believe 
me,  had  not  God  stored  up  punishment  for  us 
there,  ye  would  see  every  day  tragedies  deeper 
than  the  disasters  of  the  Jews.  What  then? 
however  let  no  one  take  offence,  for  I  mention 
no  names ;  suppose  some  one  were  to  come  into 
this  church  to  present  you  that  are  here  at  this 
moment,  those  that  are  now  with  me,  and  to 
make  inquisition  of  them ;  or  rather  not  now, 
but  suppose  on  Easter  day  any  one,  endued  with 
such  a  spirit,  as  to  have  a  thorough  knowledge 
of  the  things  they  had  been  doing,  should  nar- 
rowly examine  all  that  came  to  Communion, 
and  were  being  washed  [in  Baptism]  after  they 
had  attended  the  mysteries  ;  many  things  would 
be  discovered  more  shocking  than  the  Jewish 

'This  alludes  to  the  Monks  who  lived  in  the  mountains  about 
Antioch,  where  these  Homilies  seem  to  have  been  written.  Com- 
pare Homily  xiii.  p.  2.  vid.  Adv.  Oppugn,  i.  7.  8.  Elsewhere  he 
blames  persons  who  retired,  as  hiding  their  talents,  vid.  /  Cor, 
Horn.  vi.  8. 

•The  same  sin  is  noticed  among  other  places  by  S.  Basil  Ep.  53. 
S.  Ambrose  in  Luc,  lib.  ix.  17 — 19.   S.  Jerome  iff  Mat.  xxl.  xa.  13. 


Howly  VII.] 


HOMILIES  ON  EPHESIANS. 


79 


horrors.  He  would  find  persons  who  practise 
augury,  who  make  use  of  charms,  and  omens, 
and  incantations,  and  who  have  committed  for- 
nication, adulterers,  drunkards,  and  revilers, — 
covetous,  I  am  unwilling  to  add,  lest  I  should 
hurt  the  feelings  of  any  of  those  who  are  stand- 
ing here.  What  more?  Suppose  any  one 
should  make  scrutiny  into  all  the  communicants 
in  the  world,  what  kind  of  transgression  is  there 
which  he  would  not  detect?  and  what  if  he 
examined  those  in  authority  ?  Would  he  not 
find  them  eagerly  bent  upon  gain?  making 
traffic  of  high  places?  envious,  malignant,  vain- 
glorious, gluttonous,  and  slaves  to  money  ? 

Where  then  there  is  such  impiety  as  this 
going  on,  what  dreadful  calamity  must  we  not 
expect  ?  And  to  be  assured  how  sore  vengeance 
they  incur  who  are  guilty  of  such  sins  as  these, 
consider  the  examples  of  old.  One  single  man, 
a  common  soldier,  stole  the  sacred  property, 
and  all  were  smitten.  Ye  know,  doubtless,  the 
history  I  mean  ?  I  am  speaking  of  Acham  the 
son  of  Carmi,  the  man  who  stole  the  conse- 
crated spoil.  (Joshua  vii :  1-26.)  The  time  too 
when  the  Prophet  spoke,  was  a  time  when  their 
country  was  full  of  soothsayers,  like  that  of  the 
Philistines.  (Isa.  ii :  6.)  Whereas  now  there  are 
evils  out  of  number  at  the  full,  and  not  one 
fears.  Oh,  henceforth  let  us  take  the  alarm. 
God  is  accustomed  to  punish  the  righteous  also 
with  the  wicked;  such  was  the  case  with 
Daniel,  and  with  the  three  holy  Children,  such 


has  been  the  case  with  ten  thousand  others, 
such  is  the  case  in  the  wars  that  are  taking  place 
even  at  the  present  day.  For  the  one  indeed, 
whatever  burden  of  sins  they  have  upon  them, 
by  this  means  lay  aside  even  that ;  but  not  so 
the  other. 

On  account  of  all  these  things,  let  us  take 
heed  to  ourselves.  Do  ye  not  see  these  wars  ? 
Do  ye  not  hear  of  these  disasters  ?  Do  ye  learn 
no  lesson  from  these  things?  Nations  and 
whole  cities  are  swallowed  up  and  destroyed, 
and  myriads  as  many  again  are  enslaved  to  the 
barbarians. 

If  hell  bring  us  not  to  our  senses,  yet  let  these 
things.  What,  are  these  too  mere  threats,  are 
they  not  facts  that  have  already  taken  place  ? 
Great  is  the  punishment  they  have  suffered,  yet 
a  greater  still  shall  we  suffer,  who  are  not 
\  brought  to  our  senses  even  by  their  fate.  Is 
!  this  discourse  wearing  ?  *  I  am  aware  it  is  my- 
j  self,  but  if  we  attend  to  it,  it  has  its  advantage ; 
because  this  it  has  not,  the  quality  of  an  address 
to  please, — nay  more,  nor  ever  shall  have,  but 
ever  those  topics  which  may  avail  to  humble 
and  to  chasten  the  soul.  For  these  will  be 
to  us  the  ground-work  of  those  blessings  to 
come  hereafter,  to  which  God  grant  that 
we  may  all  attain,  in  Jesus  Christ  our  Lord, 
with  whom  to  the  Father,  together  with  the 
Holy  Ghost  be  glery  and  might  and  honor, 
now  and  henceforth,  and  forever  and  ever. 
Amen. 


HOMILY    VII 


Chapter  in.  Verses  8— ii. 


"Unto  me,  who  am  less  than  the  least  of  all  saints,  was 
this  grace  given,  to  preach  onto  the  Gentiles  the 
unsearchable  riches  of  Christ ;  and  to  make  all  men 
see  what  is  the  dispensation  of  the  mystery,  which 
from  all  ages  hath  been  hid  in  God,  who  created  all 
things :  1  to  the  intent  that  now  onto  the  principalities 
and  the  powers  in  the  heavenly  places  might  be 
made  known  through  the  Church  the  manifold  wis- 
dom of  God,  according  to  the  eternal  purpose,  which 
He  purposed  in  Christ  Jesus  our  Lord." 

They  who  go  to  the  physician's  have  not 
merely  to  go  there  and  nothing  further ;  they 
have  to  learn  how  to  treat  themselves,  and  to 

1  [The  voids  *  through  Jesus  Christ '  («U*  I^rov  X/kvtdv)  which 
*t  here  'found  in  Chxysostom's  text  have  gotten  into  the  textus 
rtteftut  from  the  few  ate  and  mostly  cursive  MSS.  which  present 
the  Byzantine  or  Constant inopoli tan  text  and  from  which  the 
ttxtut  receftus  was  made.  Chrysostom  is  the  chief  witness  of 
urn  Byzantine  text.  Schaff.  Cimfianion  r>  Greek  Testament  pp. 
aoSr-o.  The  words  are  omitted  by  Aleph  ABCD,  most  Versions 
"A.] 


apply  remedies.  And  so  with  us  then  who 
come  here,  we  must  not  do  this  and  nothing 
else,  we  must  learn  our  lesson,  the  surpassing 
lowliness  of  Paul.  What  ?  when  he  was  about 
to  speak  of  the  vastness  of  the  grace  of  God, 
hear  what  he  saith,  "  Unto  me,  who  am  less 
than  the  least  of  all  saints,  was  this  grace 
given."  Lowliness  indeed  it  was  even  to  be- 
wail his  former  sins,  although  blotted  out,  and 
to  make  mention  of  them,  and  to  hold  himself 
within  his  true  measure  as  where  he  calls  him- 
self "  a  blasphemer,  and  a  persecutor,  and  in- 
jurious ;"  (1   Tim.   i:    13.)  yet   nothing  was 

1 S.  Chrysostom  complains  that  his  rich  hearers,  when  the 
choice  lay  between  theatre  or  race  and  Church,  preferred  the  for- 
mer; alleging  the  heat  and  crowd  of  the  latter,  rid.  t.  3.  Horn.  iii. 
xii.  and  xv.  (Ed.  Ben.)  /  Cor.  Horn.  v.  fin.  We  see  his  care  to 
consult  for  the  tastes  and  capacities  of  his  hearers  in  his  preach- 
lug,  in  P*.  41.  init.  and  t.  3.  Ham.  vii.  n.  3.  (Ed.  Ben.) 


8o 


WORKS  OF  ST.  CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  VII. 


equal  to  this:  for  " formerly,' •  saith  he,  such 
was  I;  and  again  he  calls  himself,  "  one  born 
out  of  due  time."  (i  Cor.  xv :  8.)  But  that 
after  so  many  great  and  good  deeds  and  at  that 
time  he  should  thus  humble  himself,  and  call 
himself  "less  than  the  least  of  all,"  this  is 
indeed  great  and  surpassing  moderation.  "  To 
one  who  am  less  than  the  least  of  all  saints  ;"he 
saith  not,  "than  the  Apostles."  So  that  that 
expression  is  less  strong  than  this  before  us. 
There  his  words  are,  "I  am  not  meet  to  be 
called  an  Apostle.' '  (i  Cor.  xv:  9.)  Here  he 
says  that  he  is  even  "less  than  the  least  of  all 
saints;"  "to  me,"  saith  he,  "who  am  less 
than  the  least  of  all  saints  was  this  grace  given." 
What  grace?  "To  preach  unto  the  Gentiles 
the  unsearchable  riches  of  Christ,  and  to  make 
all  men  see  what  is  the  dispensation  of  the  mys- 
tery, which  from  all  ages  hath  been  hid  in  God, 
who  created  all  things,  to  the  intent  that  now 
unto  the  principalities  and  the  powers  in  the 
heavenly  places,  might  be  made  known  through 
the  Church  the  manifold  wisdom  of  God." 
True,  to  man  it  was  not  revealed ;  and  art  thou 
enlightening  Angels  and  Archangels  and  Prin- 
cipalities and  Powers  ?  I  am,  saith  he.  For  it 
was  "  hid  in  God,"  even  "  in  God  who  created 
all  things."  And  dost  thou  venture  to  utter 
this?  I  do,  saith  he.  But  whence  hath  this 
been  made  manifest  to  the  Angels?  By  the 
Church.  Again  he  saith,  not  merely  the  mani- 
fold (notxtXo?)  but  the  much-manifold  (itoXunoi- 
xtXo?)  wisdom,  that  is,  "  the  multiplied  and 
varied."  What  then  is  this?  Did  not  Angels 
know  it  ?  No,  nothing  of  it ;  for  if  Principali- 
ties knew  it  not,  much  less  could  Angels  ever 
have  known  it.  What  then?  Did  not  even 
Archangels  know  it?  No,  nor  even  they.  But 
whence  were  they  going  to  know  it?  Who  was  to 
reveal  it  ?  When  we  were  taught  it,  then  were 
they  also  by  us.1  For  hear  what  the  Angel 
saith  to  Joseph  ;  "Thou  shalt  call  His  Name 
Jesus,  for  it  is  He  that  shall  save  His  people 
from  their  sins."  (Matt,  i :   21.) 

Paul  himself  was  sent  to  the  Gentiles,  the 
other  Apostles  to  the  Circumsion.  So  that 
the  more  marvellous  and  astonishing  com- 
mission was  given,  saith  he,  "  to  me,  who 
am  less  than  the  least."  And  this  too  was 
of  grace,  that  he  that  was  least  should  have  the 
greatest  things  entrusted  to  him  ;  that  he  should 
be  made  the  herald  of  these  tidings.  For  he 
that  is  made  a  herald  of  the  greater  tidings,  is 
in  this  way  great. 

"  To  preach  unto  the  Gentiles  the  unsearch- 
able riches2  of  Christ." 

1 S.  Chrysostom  says  the  same,  Or  at.  iv.  in  A  nam.  2.  and  Horn, 
i.  in  Joan.  2.  (ed.  Ben.)  vid.  also  Theodoret  in  Ps.  23.  7.  8.  S. 
Greg.  Nyss.  Horn.  8  in  Cant.  p.  506.  S.  Jerome  in  ioc.  TComp. 
t  Pet.  z  :  12,  *vhich  things  angels  desire  to  fook  into. — G.  A.\ 

*["  The  whole  divine  fulness  of  salvation,  of  which  Christ  is 
t^e  possessor  and  bestowcr.  and  which  is  of  such  a  nature  that  the 


If  His  "riches  are  unsearchahle,"  and  that 
too  after  his  appearing,  much  mpre  is  His 
essence.  If  it  is  still  a  mystery,  much  more 
was  it  before  it  was  made  known ;  for  a  mys- 
tery he  calls  it  on  this  account,  because  neither 
did  the  Angels  know  it,  nor  was  it  manifest  to 
any  one  else. 

"  And  to  make  all  men  see,"  saith  he,  "  what 
is  the  dispensation  of  the  mystery  which  from 
all  ages  hath  been  hid  in  God,  who  created  all 
things." 

Angels  knew  only  this,  that  "The  Lord's 
portion  was  His  people."  (Deut.  xxxii:  8,  9.) 
And  again  it  is  said,  "  The  Prince  of  Persia 
withstood  me."  (Dan.  x:  13.)  So  that  it  is 
nothing  to  be  wondered  at  that  they  were  ignor- 
ant of  this ;  for  if  they  were  ignorant  of 
the  circumstances  of  the  return  from  the 
Captivity,  much  more  would  they  be  of  these 
things.  For  this  is  the  gospel.  "It  is  He  that 
shall  save,"  it  saith,  "  His  people."  (Matt,  i : 
21.)  Not  a  word  about  the  Gentiles.  But  what 
concerns  the  Gentiles  the  Spirit  revealeth. 
That  they  were  called  indeed,  the  Angels  knew, 
but  that  it  was  to  the  same  privileges  as  Israel, 
yea,  even  to  sit  upon  the  throne  of  God,  this, 
who  would  ever  have  expected  ?  who  would 
ever  have  believed  ? 

"Which  hath  been  hid,"  saith  he,  "in 
God." 

This  "dispensation,"  however,  he  more 
clearly  unfolds  in  the  Epistle  to  the  Romans. 
"  In  God,"  he  continues,  "  who  created  all 
things  by  Jesus  Christ."3  And  he  does  well  to 
say  "  by  Jesus  Christ  ;  "  forasmuch  as  He  who 
created  all  things  by  Him,  revealeth  also  this 
by  Him ;  for  He  hath  made  nothing  without 
Him;  for  "without  Him,"  it  is  said,  "was 
not  any  thing  made."    (John  i:  30.) 

In  speaking  of  "  principalities"  and  "  pow- 
ers," he  speaks  both  of  those  above  and  those 
beneath. 

"  According  to  the  eternal  purpose."  It 
hath  been  now,  he  means,  brought  to  pass,  but 
not  now  decreed,  it  had  been  planned  before- 
hand from  the  very  first.  "  According  to  the 
eternal  purpose  which  He  purposed4  in  Christ 
Jesus  our  Lord."  That  is,  according  to  the  eter- 
nal foreknowledge;  foreknowing  the  things  to 
come,  i.  e. ,  he  means  the  ages  to  come ;  for  He 
knew  what  was  to  be,  and  thus  decreed  it. 
According  to  the  purpose  of  the  ages,  of  those, 
perhaps,  which  He  hath  made  by  Christ  Jesus, 


human  intellect  cannot  explore  it  so  as  to  form  an  adequate  con* 
ception  of  it.  This  does  not  hinder  the  proclamation  which,  on 
the  contrary,  is  rendered  possible  by  revelation." — Meyer.— G.  A.] 

*  [  See  note  on  these  words  above. — G.  A.l 

4  [  This  verb,  iwoiriatv,  has  been  applied  oy  many  to  the  '  form- 
ing of  the  purpose.  ([So  Rev.  Ver.)  But  it  seems  best  to  refer 
it  to  the  '  execution '  of  it,  regarded  as  an  accomplished  fact.  Rid* 
die  in  Popular  Commentary  and  in  Lange.  Braune  in  Lang*. 
Meyer,  Ellicott.— G.  A.] 


Homily  VII.  ] 


HOMILIES  ON  EPHESIANS. 


8* 


because  it  was  by  Christ  that  every  thing  was 
made. 

Ver.  12.  "In  whom  we  have,"  saith  he, 
11  boldness,  and  access  in  confidence  through 
our  faith  in  him." 

"  Have  access,"  not  as  prisoners,  he  says,  nor 
yet,  as  persons  candidates  for  pardon,  nor  as 
sinners ;  for,  saith  he,  we  have  even  "  boldness 
with  confidence,"  that  is,  accompanied  with 
cheerful  trust ;  arising  from  what  source  ?  through 
our  faith  in  Him." 

Ver.  13.  "Wherefore1 1  ask  that  ye  faint 
not  at  my  tribulations  for  you,  which  are  your 
glory." 

How  is  it  "for  them?"  How  is  it  "their 
glory?"  It  is  because  God  so  loved  them,  as 
to  give  even  the  Son  for  them,  and  to  afflict  His 
servants  for  them :  for  it  was  in  order  that  they 
might  attain  so  many  blessings,  that  Paul  was  in 
prison.  Surely  this  was  from  God's  exceeding 
love  towards  them :  it  is  what  God  also  saith 
concerning  the  Prophets,  "  I  have  slain  them  by 
the  words  of  my  mouth."  (Hos.  vi:  5.)  But 
how  was  it  that  they  fainted,  when  another  was 
afflicted  ?  He  means,  they  were  troubled,  were 
distressed.  This  also  he  says  when  writing  to 
the  Thessalonians,  "that  no  man  be  moved  by 
these  afflictions. "  ( 1  Thes.  iii :  3.)  For  not  only 
ought  we  not  to  grieve,  but  we  ought  even  to 
rejoice.  If  ye  find  consolation  in  the  fore- 
warning, we  tell  you  beforehand  that  here  we 
have  tribulation.  And  why  pray?  Because 
thus  hath  the  Lord  ordered. 

Ver.  14,  15.  "For  this  cause1 1  bow  my 
knees  unto  the  Father  from  whom  every  family 
in  heaven  and  on  earth  is  named." 

He  here  shows  the  spirit  of  his  prayer  for 
them.  He  does  not  say  simply,  "I  pray,"  but 
manifests  the  supplication  to  be  heartfelt,  by  the 
"bowing  of  the  knees." 

"From  whom  every  family." 

That  is,  no  longer,  he  means,  reckoned, 
according  to  the  number  of  Angels,  but  accord- 
ing to  Him  who  hath  created  the  tribes  both  in 
heaven  above  and  in  earth  beneath,  not  as  the 
Jewish. 

Ver.  16,  17.  "That  He  would  grant  you 
according  to  the  riches  of  His  glory  that  ye  may 
be  strengthened  with  power  through  His  Spirit 
in  the  inward  man ;  that  Christ  may  dwell  in 
your  hearts  through  faith." 

Mark  with  what  insatiable  earnestness  he 
invokes  these  blessings  upon  them,  that  they 
may  not  be  tossed  about.  But  how  shall  this  be 
effected?    By  the  "  Holy  Spirit  in  your  inward 


1  [Wherefore,  •*  in  view  of  my  position  as  minister  of  such  a  eos- 
pd/'-Riddle,— G.  A.] 

*  [  This  Tovrov  x*P*r  **  a  resumption  of  the  first  verse  of  the  chap- 
ter which  was  left  unfinished  by  reason  of  the  digression  concern- 
ing his  office  as  apostle  of  the  Gentiles,  which  forms  a  section  by 
tadf.  (ver.  a-13.)— G.  A,] 


man,  that   Christ    may  dwell  in  your  hearts 
through  faith."     How  again  shall  this  be? 

Ver.  18,  19.  "To  the  end  that  ye  being 
rooted  and  grounded  in  love,  may  be  strong  to 
apprehend  with  all  the  saints,  what  is  the  breadth, 
and  length,  and  height,  and  depth, 8  and  to 
know  the  love  of  Christ  which  passeth  knowl- 
edge." 

Thus  is  his  prayer  now  again,  the  very  same 
as  when  he  began.  For  what  were  his  words  in 
the  beginning?  "That  the  God  of  our  Lord 
Jesus  Christ,  the  Father  of  glory  may  give  unto 
you  a  Spirit  of  wisdom  and  revelation  in  the 
knowledge  of  Him ;  having  the  eyes  of  your 
heart  enlightened,  that  ye  may  know  what  is 
the  hope  of  His  calling,  what  the  riches  of  the 
glory  of  His  inheritance  in  the  saints ;  and  what ' 
the  exceeding  greatness  of  His  power  to  us-ward 
who  believe."  And  now  again  he  says  the 
same.  "  That  ye  may  be  strong  to  apprehend 
with  all  the  saints  what  is  the  breadth,  and 
length,  and  height,  and  depth ;  "  i.  e.,  to  know 
perfectly  the  mystery  which  hath  been  provi- 
dentially ordered  in  our  behalf:4  "and  the 
breadth,  and  length,  and  height,  and  depth ;  " 
that  is,  too,  the  immensity  of  the  love  of  God, 
and  how  it  extends  every  where.  And  he  out- 
lines it  by  the  visible  dimensions  of  solid  bodies, 
pointing  as  it  were  to  a  man.  He  comprehends 
the  upper  and  under  and  sides.  I  have  thus 
spoken  indeed,  he  would  say,  yet  is  it  not  for 
any  words  of  mine  to  teach  you  these  things; 
that  must  be  the  work  of  the  Holy  Spirit.  "  By 
His  might,"  saith  he,  is  it  that  ye  must  be 
"strengthened"  against  the  trials  that  await 
you,  and  in  order  to  remain  unshaken ;  so  that 
there  is  no  other  way  to  be  strengthened  but  by 
the  Holy  Ghost,  both  on  account  of  trials  and 
carnal  reasonings. 

But  how  doth  Christ  dwell  in  the  hearts? 
Hear  what  Christ  Himself  saith,  "I  and  my 
Father  will  come  unto  him,  and  makeour  abode 
with  him."  (John  xiv:  23.)  He  dwelleth  in 
those  hearts  that  are  faithful,  in  those  that  are 
"  rooted  "in  His  love,  those  that  remain  firm 
and  unshaken. 

"That  ye  may  be"  thoroughly  "strong," 
saith  he ;  so  that  there  is  great  strength  needed. 

6  "  That  ye  may  be  filled  unto  all  the  fulness 
of  God." 


•  [  "  A  sensuous  illustration  of  the  idea ;  '  how  great  in  every 
relation.'  " — Meyer.G.  A.] 

•  [  '•  Of  what  are  these  dimensions  predicated  ?  Not  of  the  work 
of  redemption  as  Chrysostom  (to  p.vcmjpioi'  rb  v»«p  i/ftity  oinov- 
OfirjBir)  because  after  a  new  portion  of  the  discourse  is  begun  at 
ver.  14,  the  nvvnipiov  is  not  again  mentioned  ;  nor  of  the  love  of 
God  to  us,  as  Chrysostom  again,  for  the  tv  ayairn  preceding  does 
not  refer  to  God's  love  ;  but  of  the  love  of  Christ  to  men  as  shown 
in  ver.  iq." — Meyer.     So  Ellicott,  Braune,  Riddle.— G.  A.l 

•  [This  entire  paragraph  is  omitted  from  Field's  text.  But  as  it 
is  supported  by  several  excellent  authorities,  as  it  is  in  Chrysos- 
tom's  style  and  as  it  contains  a  very  noble  thought,  we  have  ven- 
tured to  retain  it.  "  Field  seems  to  rely  on  the  probability  that 
the  shorter  text  is  the  original.    One  of  his  main  authorities  seems 


82 


WORKS  OF  ST.  CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  V1L 


What  he  means  is  this.  Although  the  love 
of  Christ  lies  above  the  reach  of  all  human 
knowledge,  yet  shall  ye  know  it,  if  ye  shall 
have  Christ  dwelling  in  you,  yea,  not  only  shall 
know  from  Him  this,  but  shall  even  "  be  filled 
unto  all  the  fulness  of  God ; "  meaning  by  the 
"fulness  of  God,"  either  the  knowledge  how 
God  is  worshipped  in  the  Father,  the  Son,  and 
the  Holy  Ghost,  or  else  urging  them  thus  to  use 
every  effort,  in  order  to  be  filled  with  all  virtue, 
of  which  God  is  full. 

Ver.  20.  "Now  unto  Him  that  is  able  to  do 
exceeding  abundantly  above  all  that  we  ask  or 
think,  according  to  the  power  that  worketh  in 
us." 

That  God  hath  done  "abundantly  above  all 
'that  we  ask  or  think,''  is  evident  from  what  the 
Apostle  himself  hath  written.  For  I  indeed, 
saith  he,  pray,  but  He  of  Himself,  even  without 
any  prayer  of  mine,  will  do  works  greater  than 
all  we  ask,  not  simply  " greater,1 '  nor  "abun- 
dantly greater,"  but  "exceeding  abundantly." 
And  this  is  evident  from  "  the  power,  that 
worketh  in  us :  "  for  neither  did  we  ever  ask 
these  things,  nor  did  we  expect  them. 

Ver.  21.  "Unto  Him  be  the  glory,"  he  con- 
cludes, "in  the  Church  and  in  Christ  Jesus, 
unto  all  generations  forever  and  ever.  Amen." 

Well  does  he  close  the  discourse  with  prayer 
and  doxology ;  for  right  were  it  that  He,  who 
hath  bestowed  upon  us  such  vast  gifts,  should 
be  glorified  and  blessed,  so  that  this  is  even  a 
proper  part  of  our  amazement  at  His  mercies, 
to  give  glory  for  the  things  advanced  to  us  at 
God's  hands  through  Jesus  Christ. 

"  The  glory  in  the  Church."  Well  might  he 
say  this,  forasmuch  as  the  Church  alone  can 
last  on  to  eternity. 

It  seems  necessary  to  state  what  are  meant  by 
"  families."  (xarptaf)  Here  on  earth,  indeed 
there  are  "  families  "  that  is  races  sprung  from 
one  parent  stock ;  but  in  heaven  how  can  this 
be,  where  none  is  born  of  another?  Surely  then, 
by  "  families,"1  he  means  either  the  assemblies 

to  be  a  Catena  which  would  naturally  abridge  the  portions  extract- 
ed especially  in  a  writer  so  given  to  amplifications  as  Chrysostom." 
We  have  in  the  main  followed  Field's  text  in  spite  of  this  prob- 
ability, but  in  exceptional  cases,  like  the  present,  we  have  ventured 
to  demur.— G.  A.] 

1  This  text  has  various  interpretations.  S.  Athanasius  uses  ft 
to  imply  that  God,  as  Father  of  the  Son,  is  the  only  true  Father, 
and  that  all  created  paternity  is  a  shadow  of  the  true.  Or  at.  in 
Arian.  i.  21.  S.  Jerome  says,  **  As  He  who  alone  is  good,  (Luke 
18,  zo.)  makes  men  good,  and  who  is  alone  immortal,  (x  Tim.  6, 
16. )  bestows  immortality,  and  who  alone  is  true  (Rom.  3,  4.)  Im- 
parts the  name  of  truth  ;  so  too  the  only  Father,  in  that  He  is  Crea- 
tor of  all,  and  the  cause  of  substance  to  all,  gives  to  the  rest  to  be 
called  Father."  in  ioc.  He  considers  that  the  Angels  are  said  in 
the  text  to  share  His  paternity,  in  a  spiritual  sense,  as  Christ  says 
to  the  sick  man,  "Son,"  and  to  His  disciples,  "Little  children." 
Theodoret  seems  to  say  the  same,  in  ioc.  v.  also  Hooker,  £.  P.  V. 
liv.  2.  ["  The  reference  must  be  to  those  larger  classes  and  com- 
munities into  which,  as  we  may  also  infer  from  other  passages 
(z :  2i ;  Col.  x  :  16)  the  celestial  hosts  appear  to  be  divided;  and  to 
the  races  and  tribes  of  men  every  one  of  which  owes  the  very  title 
of  varpta,  by  which  it  is  defined  to  the  great  warfip  of  all  the 
warpiai  both  of  angels  and  men." — Ellicott.  "  The  Apostle  seems 
regarding  God  as  the  Father  of  us  His  adopted  children  in  Christ, 
to  go  forth  into  the  fact  that  He  in  this  relation  to  us  is  the  great 


and  orders  of  heavenly  beings ;  as  also  we  find 
it  written  in  Scripture,  "the  family  of  Amat- 
tari:"  (i  Sam.  x:  21.  See  Septuagint.)  or  else 
that  it  is  from  Him  from  whom  earthly  fathers 
have  their  name  of  father. 

However,  he  does  not  ask  the  whole  of  God, 
but  demands  of  them  also  faith  and  love,  and 
not  simply  love,  but  love  "rooted  and  ground- 
ed," so  that  neither  any  blasts  can  shake  it,  nor 
any  thing  else  overturn  it.  He  had  said,  that 
"  tribulations  "  are  "glory,"  and  if  mine  are 
so  to  you,  he  would  say,  much  more  will  your 
own  be :  so  that  to  be  afflicted  is  no  token  of 
men  being  forsaken,,  for  He  who  hath  wrought 
so  great  things  for  us,  never  would  do  this. 

Again,  if  in  order  to  understand  the  love  of 
God,  it  was  necessary  for  Paul  to  pray,  and 
there  was  need  of  the  indwelling  of  the  Holy 
Spirit,  who  by  following  mere  reasonings  shall 
understand  the  nature  of  Christ  ?  And  why  is  it 
a  difficult  thing  to  learn  that  God  loveth  us  ? 
Beloved,  it  is  extremely  difficult.  For  some 
know  not  even  this ;  wherefore,  they  even  say, 
numberless  evils  come  to  be  in  the  world ;  and 
others  know  not  the  extent  of  this  love.  .  Nor, 
indeed,  is  Paul  seeking  to  know  its  extent,  nor 
with  any  view  to  measure  it ;  for  how  could  he  ? 
but  only  to  understand  this,  that  it  is  transcen- 
dent, and  great.  And  this  very  thing,  he  says, 
he  is  able  to  show,  even  from  the  knowledge 
which  hath  been  vouchsafed  to  us. 

However,  what  is  higher  than  the  being 
"  strengthened  with  might,"  in  order  to  have 
Christ  within  ?  Vast  are  the  things  we  ask,  saith 
he,  yet  is  He  able  to  do  above  even  them,  so 
that  not  only  doth  He  love  us,  but  doth  so  in- 
tensely. Be  it  our  care  therefore,  beloved,  to 
understand  the  love  of  God.  A  great  thing  in- 
deed is  this;  nothing  is  so  beneficial  to  us, 
nothing  so  deeply  touches  us :  more  availing 
this  to  convince  our  souls  than  the  fear  of  hell 
itself.  Whence  then  shall  we  understand  it? 
Both  from  the  sources  now  mentioned,  and 
from  the  things  which  happen  every  day.  For 
from  what  motive  have  these  things  been  done 
for  us  ?  from  what  necessity  on  His  part  ?  None 
whatever.  Over  and  over  again  he  lays  down 
love  as  the  cause.  But  the  highest  degree  of 
love  is  that  where  men  receive  a  benefit,  with- 
out any  prior  service  on  their  part  to  call  for  it. 

Moral.  And  let  us  then  be  followers  of  Him ; 
let  us  do  good  to  our  enemies,  to  them  that  hate 
us,  let  us  draw  near  to  those  who  turn  their 
backs  upon  us.  This  renders  us  like  unto  God. 
"For  if  ye  love  them  that  love  you,"  saith 
Christ,  "what  reward  have  ye?"  "Do  not 
even  the  Gentiles  the  same."  (Matt,  v:  46.) 
But  what  is  a  sure  proof  of  love  ?     To  love  him 

original  and  prototype  of  the  paternal  relation,  wherever  found." 
Alford  in  Riddle  in  Pop.  Com.—G.  A] 


Homily  V1L] 


HOMILIES  ON  EPHESIANS. 


83 


that  hates  thee.     I  wish  to  give  you  some  ex- 
ample,  (pardon  me,)  and  since  I  find  it  not 
imong  them  that  are  spiritual,  I  shall  quote  an 
instance  from  them  that  are  without.     See  ye 
not    those    lovers?     How    many    insults    are 
wreaked  upon  them  by  their  mistresses,  how 
many  artifices  practised,  how  many  punishments 
inflicted :  yet  they  are  enchained  to  them,  they 
burn  for  them,  and  love  them  better  than  their 
own  souls,  passing  whole  nights  before  their 
thresholds.  From  them  let  us  take  our  example, 
not  indeed  to  love  such  as  those, — women,  I 
mean,  that  are  harlots ;  no,  but  thus  to  love  our 
enemies.     For  tell  me,  do  not  harlots  treat  their 
lovers  with  greater  insolence  than  all  the  ene- 
mies in  the  world,  and  squander  away  their  sub- 
stance, and  cast  insult  in  their  face,  and  impose 
upon  them  more  servile  tasks  than  upon  their 
own  menials  ?    And  yet  still  they  desist  not, 
though  no  one  hath  so  great  an  enemy  in  any 
one,  as  the  lover  in  his  mistress.     Yea,  this  be- 
loved one  disdains,  and  reviles,  and  oftentimes 
maltreats  him,  and  the  more  she  is  loved,  the 
more  she  scorns  him.     And  what  can  be  more 
brutal  than  a  spirit  like  this?    Yet  notwith- 
standing he  loves  her  still. 

But  possibly  we  shall  find  love  like  this  in 
spiritual  characters  also,  not  in  those  of  our 
day,  (for  it  has  "waxed  cold,")  (Matt,  xxiv: 
12.)  but  in  those  great  and  glorious  men  of  old. 
Moses,  the  blessed  Moses,  surpassed  even  those 
that  love  with  human  passion.     How,  and  in 
what  way  ?     First,  he  gave  up  the  court,  and 
the  luxury,  and  the  retinue,  and  the  glory  at- 
tending it,  and   chose  rather  to  be  with  the 
Israelites.     Yet  is  this  not  only  what  no  one 
eke  would  ever  have  done,  but  would  have  even 
been  ashamed,  were  another  to  have  discovered 
him,  of  being  found  to  be  a  kinsman  of  men, 
who  were  slaves  and  not  only  slaves,  but  were 
looked  upon  as  even  execrable.     Yet  was  he  not 
only  not  ashamed  of  his  kindred,  but  with  all 
his  spirit  defended  them,  and  threw  himself 
into  dangers  for  their  sake.    (Acts,  vii:  24.) 
How?.    Seeing,  it  is  said,  one  doing  an  injury 
to  one  of  them,  he  defended  him  that  suffered 
the  injury,  and  slew  him  that  inflicted  it.     But 
this  is  not  as  yet  for  the  sake  of  enemies.    Great 
indeed  is  this  act  of  itself,  but  not  so  great  as 
what  comes  afterwards.     The  next  day,  then, 
he  saw  the  same  thing  taking  place,  and  when 
he  saw  him  whom  he  had  defended1  doing  his 
neighbor  wrong,  he  admonished  him  to  desist 
from  his  wrong-doing.     But  he  said,  with  great 
ingratitude,   "Who  made  thee  a  ruler  and  a 
judge  over  us?"  (Acts,  vii:  27.)  Who  would  not 
have  taken  fire  at  these  words?     Had  then  the 

1  [It  does  not  appear  from  the  account  in  Exodus  ii :  ix  ff.  or  from 
duu  in  Acts,  vii :  34  ff.  that  the  Hebrew  who  did  his  brother  wrong 
*as  the  same  that  Moses  had  defended  on  the  proceeding  day,  as 
Q*y*o«toin  here  cakes  for  granted.— G.  A.] 


former  act  been  that  of  passion  and  frenzy,  then 
would  he  have  smitten  and  killed  this  man  also; 
for  surely  he  on  whose  behalf  it  was  done,  never 
would  have  informed  against  him.  But  because 
they  were  brethren,  it  is  said,  he  spoke  thus. 
When  he  [the  Hebrew]  was  being  wronged,  he 
uttered  no  such  word  "  Who  made  thee  a  ruler 
and  a  judge  over  us? "  "  Wherefore  saidst 
thou  not  this  yesterday ?"  Moses  would  say, 
"Thy  injustice,  and  thy  cruelty,  these  make  me 
a  ruler  and  a  judge." 

But  now,  mark,  how  that  some,  in  fact,  say 
as  much  even  to  God  Himself.  Whenever  they 
are  wronged  indeed,  they  would  have  Him  a 
God  of  vengeance,  and  complain  of  His  long 
suffering;  but  when  themselves  do  wrong,  not 
for  a  moment. 

However,  what  could  be  more  bitter  than 
words  like  these?  And  yet  notwithstanding, 
after  this,  when  he  was  sent  to  that  ungrateful, 
to  that  thankless  race,  he  went,  and  shrunk  not 
back.  Yea,  and  after  those  miracles,  and  after 
the  wonders  wrought  by  his  hand,  oftentimes 
they  sought  to  stone  him  to  death  and  he  es- 
caped out  of  their  hands.  They  kept  murmur- 
ing too  incessantly,  and  yet  still,  notwithstand- 
ing, so  passionately  did  he  love  them,  as  to  say 
unto  God,  when  they  committed  that  heinous 
sin,  "Yet  now  if  Thou  wilt  forgive,  forgive 
their  sin ;  and  if  not,  blot  even  me  also  out  of 
the  book  which  Thou  hast  written."  (Ex.  xxxii : 
32.)  Fain  would  I  perish,  saith  he,  with  them, 
rather  than  without  them  be  saved.  Here, 
verily,  is  love  even  to  madness,  verily,  un- 
bounded love.  What  sayest  thou,  Moses  ?  Art 
thou  regardless  of  Heaven  ?  I  am,  saith  he,  for 
I  love  those  who  have  wronged  me.  Prayest 
thou  to  be  blotted  out  ?  Yea,  saith  he,  what 
can  I  do,  for  it  is  love  ?  And  what  again  after 
these  things?  Hear  what  the  Scripture  saith 
elsewhere;  "And  it  went  ill  with  Moses  for 
their  sakes."  (Ps.  cvi :  32.)  How  often  did 
they  wax  wanton  ?  How  often  did  they  reject 
both  himself  and  his  brother  ?  How  often  did 
they  seek  to  return  back  to  Egypt?  and  yet 
after  all  these  things  did  he  burn,  yea,  was  be- 
side himself  with  love  for  them,  and  was  ready 
to  suffer  for  their  sakes. 

Thus  ought  a  man  to  love  his  enemies ;  by 
lamentation,  by  unwearied  endurance,  by  doing 
everything,  by  showing  all  favor,  to  aim  at  their 
salvation. 

And  what  again,  tell  me,  did  Paul?  did  he 
not  ask  even  to  be  accursed  in  their  stead  ?  (Rom. 
ix  :  3.)  But  the  great  pattern  we  must  of  ne- 
cessity derive  from  the  Lord,  for  thus  doth  He 
also  Himself,  where  he  saith,  "  For  He  maketh 
His  sun  to  rise  on  the  evil  and  the  good."  (Matt. 
v  :  45.)  adducing  the  example  from  His  Father ; 
but  we  from  Christ  Himself.      He  came  unto 


«4 


WORKS  OF  ST.  CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  VIIL 


them,  in  His  Incarnation,  I  mean,  He  became 
a  servant  for  their  sakes,  "  He  humbled  Him- 
self, He  emptied  Himself,  He  took  the  form  of 
a  servant"  (Phil,  ii:  7,8.)  And  when  He 
came  unto  them,  He  went  not  Himself  aside 
"into  any  way  of  the  Gentiles,"  (Matt,  x  :  5.) 
and  gave  the  same  charge  to  His  disciples,  and 
not  only  so,  but  "  He  went  about  healing  all 
manner  of  disease,  and  all  manner  of  sickness. 
(Matt,  iv :  23.)  And  what  then  ?  All  the  rest 
indeed  were  astonished,  and  marvelled,  and 
said,  "  Whence,  then,  hath  this  man  all  these 
things?"  (Matt,  xiii :  56.}  But  these,  the  ob- 
jects of  His  beneficence,  these  said,  "  He  hath 
a  devil,"  (John  x:  20.)  and  "  blasphemeth," 
(Johnx:  36.)ind  "is  mad,"  and  is  a  "  de- 
ceiver," (John  vii :  12,  and  Matt,  xxvii :  63.) 
Did  he  therefore  cast  them  away  ?  No,  in  no 
wise,  but  when  He  heard  these  sayings,  *  He 
even  yet  more  signally  bestowed  His  benefits 
upon  them,  and  went  straightway  to  them  that 
were  about  to  crucify  Him,  to  the  intent  that 
He  might  but  only  save  them.  And  after  He 
was  crucified,  what  were  His  words  ?  "  Father, 
forgive  them,  for  they  know  not  what  they  do." 
(Luke  xxiii :  34.)  Both  cruelly  treated  before 
this,  and  cruelly  treated  after  this,  even  to  the 
very  latest  breath,  for  them  He  did  everything, 
in  their  behalf  He  prayed.  Yea,  and  after  the 
Cross  itself,  what  did  He  not  do  for  their  sakes? 


Did  He  not  send  Apostles?  Did  He  not  work 
miracles  ?    Did  He  not  shake  the  whole  world  ? 

Thus  is  it  we  ought  to  love  our  enemies,  thus 
to  imitate  Christ.  Thus  did  Paul.  Stoned, 
suffering  unnumbered  cruelties,  yet  did  he  all 
things  for  their  good.  Hear  his  own  words. 
"  My  heart's  desire  and  my  supplication  to  God 
is  for  them  that  they  may  be  saved."  (Rom.  x : 
1,  2.)  And  again  ;  "  For  I  bear  them  witness 
that  they  have  a  zeal  for  God."  And  again; 
"  If  thou,  being  a  wild  olive  tree  wast  grafted 
in,  how  much  more  shall  these  be  grafted  into 
their  own  olive  tree  ?  •'  (  Rom.  xi :  24.}  How 
tender,  thinkest  thou,  must  be  the  affection  from 
which  these  expressions  proceed,  how  vast  the 
benevolence  ?  it  is  impossible  to  express  it,  im- 
possible. 

Thus  is  it  we  ought  to  love  our  enemies.  This 
is  to  love  God,  Who  hath  enjoined  it,  Who  hath 
given  it  as  His  law.  To  imitate  Him  is  to  love 
our  enemy.  Consider  it  is  not  thine  enemy 
thou  art  benefiting,  but  thyself;  thou  art  not 
loving  him,  but  art  obeying  God.  Knowing 
therefore  these  things,  let  us  confirm  our  love 
one  to  another,  that  we  may  perform  this  duty 
perfectly,  and  attain  those  good  things  that  are 
promised  in  Christ  Jesus  our  Lord,  with  Whom 
to  the  Father,  together  with  the  Holy  Ghost,  be 
glory,  might,  and  honor,  now,  and  for  ever 
and  ever.     Amen. 


HOMILY    VIIL 


Chapter  iv.  Verses  1,  2. 


"  I  therefore,  the  prisoner  in  the  Lord,  beseech  you  to 
walk  worthily  of  the  calling  wherewith  ye  were 
called,  with  all  lowliness  and  meekness." 

It  is  the  virtue  of  teachers  to  aim  not  at 
praise,  nor  at  esteem  from  those  under  their 
authority,  but  at  their  salvation,  and  to  do 
every  thing  with  this  object;  since  the  man 
who  should  make  the  other  end  his  aim,  would 
not  be  a  teacher  but  a  tyrant.  Surely  it  is  not 
for  this  that  God  set  thee  over  them,  that  thou 
shouldest  enjoy  greater  court  and  service,  but 
that  thine  own  interests  should  he  disregarded, 
and  every  one  of  theirs  built  up.  This  is  a 
teacher's  duty:  such  an  one  was  the  blessed 
Paul,  a  man  who  was  free  from  all  manner 
of  vanity,  and  was  contented  to  be  one  of  the 
many,  nay  more,  to  be  the  very  least  even  of 
them.  Hence  he  even  calls  himself  their  ser- 
vant, and  so  generally  speaks  in  a  tone  of  sup- 
plication.    Observe  him  then  even  now  writing 


nothing  dictatorial,  nothing  imperious,  but  all 
chastened  and  subdued. 

"  I  therefore,"  saith  he,  "  the  prisoner  in  the 
Lord,  beseech  you  to  walk  worthily  of  the  call- 
ing wherewith  ye  were  called.1  *  What  is  it, 
tell  me,  thou  art  beseeching  ?  Is  it  that  thou 
mayest  gain  any  end  for  thyself  ?  No,  saith  he, 
in  no  wise  ;  it  is  that  I  may  save  others.  And 
yet  surely  they  who  beseech,  do  so  for  things 
which  are  of  importance  to  themselves.  True ; 
and  this,  saith  he,  is  of  importance  to  myself, 
according  to  what  he  says  also  elsewhere  in  his 
writings,  "  Now  we  live,  if  ye  stand  fast  in  the 
Lord  ;  "  (1  Thess.  iii :  8.)  for  he  ever  earnestly 
desired  the  salvation  of  those  whom  he  was 
instructing. 

"I,  the  prisoner  in  the  Lord."  Great  and 
mighty  dignity  !  Greater  than  that  of  king  or 
of  consul,  or  of  any  other.  Hence  it  is  the  very 
title  he  uses  in  writing  to  Philemon,  "  As  Paul  the 


Homily  VIII.  ] 


HOMILIES  ON  EPHESIANS. 


85 


aged,  and  now  a  prisoner  also  of  Jesus  Christ." 
(Philemon  9.)    For  nothing  is  so  glorious  as  a 
bond  for  Christ's  sake,  as  the  chains  that  were 
bound  around  those  holy  hands ;  more  glorious 
is  it  to  be  a  prisoner  for  Christ's  sake  than  to  be 
an  Apostle,  than  to  be  a  Teacher,  than  to  be  an 
Evangelist.     Is  there  any  that  loveth  Christ,  he 
will  understand   what  I    am  saying.     Is  any 
transported  and  fired    with    devotion  for  the 
Lord,  he  knows  the  power  of  these  bonds. 
Such  an  one  would  rather  choose  to  be  a  pris- 
oner for  Christ's  sake,  than  to  have  the  Heavens 
for  his  dwelling.     More  glorious  than  any  gold 
were  the  hands  he  was  showing  to  them,  yea, 
than  any  royal  diadem.     Yes,  no  jewelled  tiara 
bound  around  the  head    invests  it  with  such 
glory,  as  an  iron  chain  for  Christ's  sake.  >  Then 
was  the  prison  more  glorious  than  palaces,  yea, 
than  heaven  itself.     Why  say  I  than  palaces  ? 
Because  it  contained  a  prisoner  of  Christ.     Is 
there  any  that  loveth  Christ,  he  knows  the  dig- 
nity of  this  title,  he  knows  what  a  virtue  is  this,  he 
knows  how  great  a  boon  he  bestowed  upon  man- 
kind, even  this,  to  be  bound  for  His  sake. 
More  glorious  this,  perhaps  to  be  bound  for  His 
sake,  than  "  to  sit  at  His  right  hand,"  (Matt, 
a:  21.)  more  august  this,  than  to  "sit  upon 
the  twelve  thrones."     (Matt,  xix:  28.) 

And  why  speak  I  of  human  glories  ?     I  am 
ashamed  to  compare  earthly  riches  and  golden 
attire  to  these  bonds.     But  forbearing  to  speak 
of  those  great  and  heavenly  glories,  even  were 
the  thing  attended  with  no  reward  at  all,  this 
alone  were  a  great  reward,  this  an  ample  recom- 
pense, to  suffer  these  hardships  for  the  sake  of 
the  Beloved.     They  that  love,  even  though  it 
be  not  God,  but  man,  they  know  what  I  am 
saying,  since  they  are  more  delighted  to  suffer 
for,  than  to  be  honored  by  those  they  love.  But 
to  fully  understand  these  things  belongs  to  the 
holy  company,  the  Apostles,  I  mean,  and  them 
alone.     For  hearken  to  what  the  blessed  Luke 
saith,  (Acts  v  :  11.)  "  that  they  departed  from 
the  presence  of  the  council,  rejoicing  that  they 
were  counted  worthy  to  suffer  dishonor  for  the 
Name."     To  all  others  indeed  it  seems  to  be 
foolishness,   that   to  suffer   dishonor   is   to  be 
counted  worthy,  that  to  suffer  dishonor  is  to 
rejoice.     But  to  them  that  understand  the  love 
of  Christ,  this  is  esteemed    of  all  things  the 
most  blessed.    Were  any  to  offer  me  my  choice, 
the  whole  Heaven  or  that  chain,  that  chain  I 
would  prefer.     Were    any  to  ask  whether  he 
should   place   me  on   high   with   the   Angels, 
or  with  Paul  in  his  bonds,  the  prison  I  would 
choose.     Were  any  about  to  change  me  into 
one  of  those  powers,  that  are  in  Heaven,  that 
are  round  about  the  throne,  or  into  such  a  pris- 
oner as  this,  such  a  prisoner  I  would  choose  to 
be.    Nothing  is  more  blessed  than  that  chain. 


Would  that  I  could  be  at  this  moment  in  that 
very  spot,  (for  the  bonds  are  said  to  be  still  in 
existence,)  to  behold  and  admire  those  men,  for 
their  love  of  Christ.  Would  that  I  could  behold 
the  chains,  at  which  the  devils  fear  and  trem- 
ble, but  which  Angels  reverence.  Nothing  is 
more  noble  than  to  suffer  any  evil  for  Christ's 
sake.  I  count  not  Paul  so  happy,  because  he 
was  "caught  up  into  Paradise,"  (2  Cor.  xii: 
4.)  as  because  he  was  cast  into  the  dungeon  ;  I 
count  him  not  so  happy,  because  he  heard 
"unspeakable  words,"  as  because  he  endured 
those  bonds.  I  count  him  not  so  happy, 
because  he  was  "  caught  up  into  the  third  Hea- 
ven," (2  Cor.  xii:  2.)  as  I  count  him  happy 
for  those  bonds'  sake.  For  that  these  are  greater 
than  those,  hear  how  even  he  himself  knew 
this;  for  he  saith  not,  I  who  "  heard  unspeak- 
able words,"  beseech  you:  but  what  ?  " I,  the 
prisoner  in  the  Lord,  beseech  you."  Nor  yet 
are  we  to  wonder,  though  he  inscribes  not  this 
in  all  his  Epistles,  for  he  was  not  always  in 
prison,  but  only  at  certain  times. 

I  deem  it  more  desirable  to  suffer  evil  for 
Christ's  sake,  than  to  receive  honor  at  Christ's 
hands.  This  is  transcendent  honor,  this  is  glory 
that  surpasseth  all  things.  If  He  Himself  who 
became  a  servant  for  my  sake,  and  "  emptied  " 
(Phil,  ii :  7.)  His  glory,  yet  thought  not  Him- 
self so  truly  in  glory,  as  when  He  was  crucified 
for  my  sake,  what  ought  not  I  to  endure  ?  For 
hear  His  own  words:  "Father,  glorify  Thou 
Me."  (John  xvii :  1. )  What  is  this  thou  art  say- 
ing? Thou  art  being  led  to  the  cross  with 
thieves  and  plunderers  of  graves,  thou  endurest 
the  death  of  the  accursed ;  Thou  art  about  to  be 
spit  upon  and  buffeted ;  and  callest  Thou  this 
glory  ?  l  Yes,  He  saith,  for  I  suffer  these  things 
for  My  beloved  ones,  and  I  count  them  alto- 
gether glory.  If  He  who  loved  the  miserable 
and  wretched  calleth  this  glory,  not  to  be  on 
His  Father's  throne,  nor  in  His  Father's  glory, 
but  in  dishonor, — if  this  was  His  glory,  and  if 
this  He  set  before  the  other  :  much  more  ought 
I  to  regard  these  things  as  glory.  Oh  !  those 
blessed  bonds  !  Oh  !  those  blessed  hands  which 
that  chain  adorned  !  Not  so  worthy  were  Paul's 
hands  when  they  lifted  up  and  raised  the  lame 
man  at  Lystra,  as  when  they  were  bound  around 
with  those  chains.  Had  I  been  living  in  those 
times,  how  eagerly  would  I  have  embraced  them, 
and  put  them  to  the  very  apple  of  mine  eyes. 
Never  would  I  have  ceased  kissing  those  hands 
which  were  counted  worthy  to  be  bound  for  my 
Lord.  Marvellest  thou  at  Paul,  when  the  viper 
fastened  on  his  hand,  and  did  him  no  hurt? 
Marvel  not.  It  reverenced  his  chain.  Yea, 
and  the  whole  sea  reverenced  it ;  for  then  too 

1  [Christ  referred  to  the  glorification  with  His  Father  which  was 
to  follow  his  humiliation.    Cf.  Jo.  xvii :  5.  Phil,  ii :  9.— G.  A.] 


86 


WORKS  OF  ST.  CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  VIII. 


was  he  bound,  when  he  was  saved  from  ship- 
wreck. Were  any  one  to  grant  me  power  to 
raise  the  dead  at  this  moment,  I  would  not 
choose  that  power,  but  this  chain.  Were  I  free 
from  the  cares  of  the  Church,  had  I  my  body 
strong  and  vigorous,  I  would  not  shrink  from 
undertaking  so  long  a  journey,  only  for  the  sake 
of  beholding  those  chains,  for  the  sake  of  seeing 
the  prison  where  he  was  bound.  The  traces 
indeed  of  his  miracles  are  numerous  in  all  parts 
of  the  world,  yet  are  they  not  so  dear  as  those 
of  his  scars.  (Gal.  vi :  17.)  Nor  in  the  Scriptures 
does  he  so  delight  me  when  he  is  working  mir- 
acles, as  when  he  is  suffering  evil,  being 
scourged,  and  dragged  about.  Insomuch  that 
from  his  body  were  carried  away  handkerchiefs 
or  aprons.  Marvellous,  truly  marvellous,  are 
these  things,  and  yet  not  so  marvellous  as  those. 
"When  they  had  laid  many  stripes  upon  him, 
they  cast  him  into  prison.1 '  (Acts  xvi  :  23.) 
And  again ;  being  in  bonds,  "  they  were  sing- 
ing hymns  unto  God."  (Acts  xvi:  25.)  And 
again;  "They  stoned  him,  and  dragged  him 
out  of  the  city,  supposing  that  he  was  dead." 
(Acts  xiv:  19.)  Would  ye  know  how  mighty  a 
thing  is  an  iron  chain  for  Christ's  sake,  bound 
about  His  servant's  body?  Hearken  to  what 
Christ  Himself  saith,  "  Blessed  are  ye."  (Mat. 
v:  n.)  Why?  When  ye  shall  raise  the  dead ? 
No.  But  why  ?  When  ye  shall  heal  the  blind  ? 
Not  at  all.  But  why  then  ?  "  When  men  shall 
reproach  you,  and  persecute  you,  and  say  all 
manner  of  evil  against  you  falsely  for  My  sake." 
(Matt,  v  :  11.)  Now,  if  to  be  evil  spoken  of  ren- 
ders men  thus  blessed,  to  be  evil  entreated, 
what  may  not  that  achieve  ?  Hearken  to  what 
this  blessed  one  himself  saith  elsewhere; 
* '  Henceforth  there  is  laid  up  for  me  the  crown 
of  righteousness:"  (2  Tim.  iv:  8.)  and  yet, 
more  glorious  than  this  crown  is  the  chain  :  of 
this,  saith  he,  the  Lord  will  count  me  worthy, 
and  I  am  in  no  wise  inquisitive  about  those 
things.  Enough  it  is  for  me  for  every  recom- 
pense, to  suffer  evil  for  Christ's  sake.  Let  Him 
but  grant  me  to  say,  that  "I  fill  up  that  which 
is  lacking  of  the  afflictions  of  Christ :  "  (Col. 
i :  24.)  and  I  ask  nothing  further. 

Peter  also  was  counted  worthy  of  this  chain ; 
for  he,  we  read,  was  bound,  and  delivered  to 
soldiers,  and  was  sleeping.  (  Acts  xii :  6.) 
Yet  he  rejoiced  and  was  not  diverted  from  his 
right  mind  and  he  fell  into  deep  sleep  which 
could  not  have  been,  had  he  been  in  any  great 
anxiety.  However,  he  was  sleeping,  being  be- 
tween two  soldiers :  and  an  Angel  came  unto  him, 
and  smote  him  on  the  side,  and  raised  him  up. 
Now  then,  were  any  one  to  say  to  me,  Which 
won ldest  thou?  Wouldest  thou  be  the  Angel 
that  struck  Peter,  or  Peter  that  was  delivered? 
I  would  rather  choose  to   be  Peter,  for  whose 


sake  even  the  Angel  came,  yea,  I  would  that  I 
might  enjoy  those  chains.  And  how  is  it,  say 
ye,  that,  as  being  released  from  great  evils,  he 
prays  ?  Marvel  not :  he  prays,  because  he  is 
afraid  lest  he  should  die ;  and  of  dying  he  is 
afraid,  because  he  would  fain  have  his  life  to  be 
still  a  subject  ior  further  sufferings.  For 
hearken  to  what  the  blessed  Paul  himself  also 
saith.  (Phil,  i  12$,  24.)  "  To  depart,  and  to 
be  with  Christ,  is  very  far  better ;  "  "  Yet  to 
abide  in  the  flesh  is  more  needful  for  your  sake." 
This  he  calls  even  a  favor  where  he  writes,  and 
says,  "  To  you  it  hath  been  granted,  (as  a  favor 
IxapUBri)  in  the  behalf  of  Christ,  not  only  to  be- 
lieve on  Him,  but  also  to  suffer  in  His  behalf." 
(Phil,  i :  29. )  So  that  this  latter  is  greater  than 
the  other:  for  He  gave  it  of  His  free  grace; 
verily,  a  favor  it  is,  exceeding  great,  yea  greater 
than  any  one  of  those,  greater  than  to  make  the 
sun  and  the  moon  stand  still,  than  to  move  the 
world !  greater  this  than  to  have  power  over  devils, 
or  to  cast  out  devils.  The  devils  grieve  not  so 
much  at  being  cast  out  by  the  faith  which 
we  exert,  as  when  they  behold  us  suffering  any 
evil,  and  imprisoned  for  Christ's  sake.  For 
this  increases  our  boldness.  Not  for  this  is  it  a 
noble  thing  to  be  in  bonds  for  Christ's  sake 
that  it  procures  for  us  a  kingdom ;  it  is  that  it 
is  done  for  Christ's  sake.  Not  for  this  do  I 
bless  those  bonds,  for  that  they  conduct  on  to 
Heaven  ;  it  is  because  they  are  worn  for  the 
sake  of  the  Lord  of  Heaven.  How  great  a 
boast  to  know  that  he  was  bound  for  Christ's 
sake!  How  great  a  happiness,  how  high  an 
honor,  how  illustrious  a  distinction !  Fain 
would  I  ever  be  dwelling  on  these  subjects. 
Fain  would  I  cling  to  this  chain.  Fain  would 
I,  though  in  reality  I  have  not  the  power,  yet 
still  in  idea,  bind  this  chain  round  my  soul  by 
a  temper  like  his. 

"  The    foundations    of  the  prison-house,  " 
we  read,  "  were  shaken  "  where  Paul  was  bound, 
"and  every  one's  bands  were  loosed."  (Acts 
xvi  :   26.)     Beholdest   thou  then  in  bonds  a 
nature  that  can  dissolve  bonds  themselves?   for 
as  the  Lord's  death  put  death  itself  to  death,  so 
also  did  Paul's  bonds  loose  the  men  in   bonds, 
shake  the    house  of  bondage,  open  the  doors. 
Yet  is  not  this  the  natural  effect  of  bonds,  but 
the  very  reverse  ;  it  is  to  keep  him  that  is  bound 
in  safety,  not  to  open  for  him  the  prison  walls. 
No,    of  bonds   then    in   general  this  is  not  the 
nature,  but  of  those  bonds  which  are  for  Christ's 
sake,  it  is.     "  The  jailor  fell  down  before  Paul 
and  Silas."     (Acts  xvi :   29.)     And  yet  neither 
is  this  again  the  effect  of  chains  in  general,  to 
lay  the  binders  at  the  feet  of  the  bound  :   no, 
but,  on  the  contrary,  to  put  these  last  under  the 
hands  of  the  former.     Whereas  here,   the   man 
who  was  free  was  under  the  feet  of  the  man  who 


Homily  VIII.  j 


HOMILIES  ON  EPHESIANS. 


«7 


had  been  bound.     The  binder  was  beseeching 
him  whom  he  had  bound  to  release  him  from  his 
fear.     Tell  me,  was  it  not  thou  that  didst  bind 
him?     Didst  thou  not  cast  him  into  the  inner 
prison?     Didst  thou  not  make  his  feet  fast  in 
the  stocks?    Why  tremblest  thou?     Why  art 
thou  troubled?    Why   weepest    thou?      Why 
hast  thou  drawn  thy  sword?     Never  bound  I, 
saith  he,  aught  like  this !     I  knew  not  that  the 
prisoners  of  Christ  had  power  so  mighty  as  this. 
What  sayest  thou?    They  received  power  to 
open  Heaven,  and  should  they  not  be  able  to 
open  a  prison  ?     They  loosed  them  that  were 
bound  by  evil  spirits,  and  was  a  piece  of  iron 
likely  to  conquer  them?    Thou  knowest  not  the 
men.     And  therefore  also  wert  thou  pardoned. 
That  prisoner  is  Paul,  whom  all  the   Angels 
reverence.     He  is  Paul,  whose  very  handker- 
chiefs and   napkins  cast  out  devils,  and  chase 
diseases  to  flight.     And  sure  the  bond  which  is 
of  the  devil  is  adamantine,  and  far  more  indis- 
soluble than  iron  ;  for  this  indeed  binds  the  soul, 
the  other  only  the  body.     He  therefore    that 
released  souls  that  were  bound,  shall  not    he 
have  power  to    release    his  own  body?      He 
that  could  burst  asunder  the  bonds  of  evil  spir- 
its, shall  he  not  unloose  a  rivet  of  iron  ?     He 
1  that  by  his  very  garments  unloosed  those  prison- 
ers, and  released  them  from  the  spell  of  devils, 
shall  not  he  of  himself  set  himself  at   liberty  ? 
For  this  was  he  first  bound   himself,  and  then 
loosed  the  prisoners,  that  thou  mighest  under- 
stand that  Christ's  servants  in  bonds  possess  a 
power  far  greater  than  they  that  are  at  liberty. 
Had  one  who  was  at  liberty  wrought  this,  then 
had  it  not  been  so  marvellous.     So  then  the 
chain  was  not  a  token  of  weakness,  but  rather 
of  a  greater  power,  and  thus  is  the  saint's  might 
more  illustriously  displayed,  when,  even  though 
in  bonds,  he  overpowers  them  that  are  at  liberty, 
when  he  that  is  in  bonds  sets  not  only  himself 
at  liberty,  but  them   that  are  in   bonds  also. 
Where  is  the  use  of  walls  ?     What  the   advan- 
tage of  thrusting  him   into  the   inner   prison, 
whereas  he  opened  the  outer  also  ?     and   why 
too  was  it  done  in  the  night?     and  why  with  an 
earthquake  ? 

Oh,  bear  with  me  a  little,  and  give  me  leave 
while  I  refrain  from  the  Apostle's  words,  and 
revel  in  the  Apostle's  deeds,  and  banquet  on 
Paul's  chain ;  grant  me  still  longer  to  dwell  up- 
on it.  I  have  laid  hold  on  that  chain,  and  no 
one  shall  part  me  from  it.  More  securely  at  this 
moment  am  I  bound  by  affection,  than  was  he 
then  in  the  stocks.  This  is  a  bond  which  no 
one  can  loose,  for  it  is  formed  of  the  love  of 
Christ;  this  neither  the  Angels,  no,  nor  the 
kingdom  of  Heaven,  has  power  to  unloose.  We 
may  hear  Paul's  own  words  ;  (Rom.  viii ;  38, 
39)  "  Neither  angels,    nor   principalities,    nor 


things  present,  nor  things  to  come,  nor  powers, 
nor  height,  nor  depth,  shall  be  able  to  separate 
us  from  the  love  of  God  which  is  in  Christ  Jesus 
our  Lord." 

Now  then,  why  did  the  event  take  place  at 
midnight  ?  And  wherefore  too  with  an  earth- 
quake? Hearken,  and  marvel  at  the  providen- 
tial orderings  of  God.  Every  one's  bands  were 
loosed,  and  the  doors  were  opened.  And  yet 
was  this  done  only  for  the  jailor's  sake,  not  with 
a  view  to  display,  but  with  a  view  to  his  salva- 
tion :  for  that  the  prisoners  knew  not  that  they 
were  loosed,  is  evident  from  Paul's  exclamation ; 
for  what  said  he?  "  He  cried  with  a  loud  voice, 
saying,  Do  thyself  no  harm,  for  we  are  all 
here."  (Acts  xvi :  28.)  But  never  would  they  all 
have  been  within,  had  they  seen  the  doors  open- 
ed, and  themselves  set  at  liberty.  They  who 
were  used  to  cut  through  walls,  and  to  scale 
roofs  and  parapets,  and  to  venture  on  all  sorts 
of  attempts  in  chains,  never  would  have  en- 
dured to  remain  within,  with  their  bands  loosed, 
and  the  doors  opened,  with  the  jailer  himself 
asleep  ;  no,  but  the  bond  of  sleep  was  to  them 
instead  of  the  bonds  of  iron.  So  that  the  thing 
took  place  and  yet  no  damage  ensued  from  the 
miracle  to  the  jailer  who  was  to  be  saved.  And 
besides  this  too,  they  that  are  bound  are  bound 
most  securely  in  the  night,  not  in  the  day ;  and 
so  accordingly  might  we  behold  them  bound 
again  with  all  care  and  sleeping :  but  had  these 
things  been  done  in  the  day  time,  there  would 
have  been  great  stir  and  tumult. 

Then  again,  wherefore  was  the  building  shak- 
en ?  It  was  to  arouse  the  jailer,  to  behold  what 
was  done,  for  he  alone  was  worthy  of  being  saved. 
And  do  thou  too,  behold,  I  pray,  the  exceed- 
ing greatness  of  the  grace  of  Christ,  for  well 
were  it  in  the  midst  of  Paul's  bonds  to  make 
mention  also  of  the  grace  of  God,  nay  indeed 
the  very  bonds  themselves  are  of  the  gift  and 
grace  of  God.  Some  indeed  there  are  who 
complain  "Why  was  the  jailer  saved?"  and 
from  those  very  circumstances,  for  which  they 
ought  to  admire  the  loving-kindness  of  God 
they  find  fault  with  it.  Nor  is  it  anything  to  be 
wondered  at.  Such  are  those  sickly  persons, 
that  find  fault  even  with  the  food  that  nourishes 
them,  which  they  ought  to  prize,  and  who  affirm 
that  honey  is  bitter  :  and  those  dimsighted  per- 
sons who  are  darkened  by  the  very  thing  which 
ought  to  enlighten  them.  Not  that  these  effects 
arise  from  the  nature  of  the  objects  themselves, 
but  from  the  weakness  of  the  persons  who  are 
unable  to  use  them  properly.  What,  however, 
was  I  saying  ?  When  they  ought  to  be  admir- 
ing God's  loving-kindness,  in  that  He  took  a 
man  who  had  fallen  into  the  most  desperate  wick- 
edness, and  was  making  him  better,  they  find 
fault :   "  Why,   how  was  it  that  he  did  not  take 


se 


WORKS  OF  ST.  CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  VIII 


the  thing  to  be  the  work  of  witchcraft  and  of 
sorcery,  and  confine  them  the  more  closely,  and 
cry  out  ?  "  Many  things  conspired  to  prevent 
this ;  first,  that  he  heard  them  singing  praises 
to  God.  And  sorcerers  never  would  have  been 
singing  such  hymns  as  those,  for  he  heard  them, 
it  is  said,  singing  praises  unto  God.  Secondly, 
the  fact,  that  they  themselves  did  not  take  flight, 
but  even  withheld  him  from  killing  himself. 
Now  had  they  done  it  for  their  own  sake,  they 
never  would  have  remained  still  within ;  they 
would  themselves  have  escaped  first  of  all. 
Great  again  was  their  kindness  also ;  they  with- 
held the  man  from  killing  himself,  even  him  who 
had  bound  them,  thus  all  but  saying  unto  him, 
"  Truly,  thou  didst  bind  us  with  all  safety,  and 
most  cruelly,  that  thou  thyself  migh  test  be  loosed 
from  the  most  cruel  of  all  bonds."  For  every 
one  is  shackled  with  the  chains  of  his  own 
sins;  and  those  bonds  are  accursed,  whereas 
these  for  Christ's  sake  are  blessed,  and  worth 
many  an  earnest  prayer.  For  that  these  bonds 
can  loose  those  other  bonds  of  sin,  he  showed 
to  us  by  things  which  are  matters  of  sense. 
Didst  thou  behold  them  released,  who  had  been 
bound  with  iron  ?  Thou  shalt  see  thyself  also 
delivered  from  other  galling  bonds.  These 
bonds,  the  prisoners'  bonds,  not  those  of  Paul, 
I  mean,  are  the  effect  of  those  other  bonds,  the 
bonds  of  sins.  They  who  were  confined  within, 
were  doubly  prisoners,  and  the  jailer  himself 
was  a  prisoner.  They  indeed  were  bound  both 
with  iron  and  with  sins,  he  with  sins  only. 
Them  did  Paul  loose  to  assure  the  faith  of  him, 
foi  the  chains  which  he  loosed  were  visible. 
And  thus  too  did  Christ  Himself;  but  rather  in 
the  inverse  order.  In  that  instance,  there  was 
a  double  palsy.  What  was  it  ?  There  was  that 
of  the  soul  by  sins,  and  also  that  of  the  body. 
What  then  did  the  Lord  do?  "Son,"  saith  He, 
"be  of  good  cheer,  thy  sins  are  forgiven." 
(Matt,  ix:  3-6.)  He  first  loosed  the  bonds  of 
the  real  and  true  palsy,  and  then  proceeds  to 
the  other:  for  when  "certain  of  the  Scribes 
said  within  themselves,  This  man  blasphemeth ; 
Jesus,  knowing  their  thoughts,  said,  Wherefore 
think  ye  evil  in  your  hearts?  For  whether  is 
easier,  to  say,  Thy  sins  are  forgiven,  or  to  say, 
Arise,  and  walk  ?  But,  that  ye  may  know  that 
the  Son  of  Man  hath  power  on  earth  to  forgive 
sins,  (then  saith  he  to  the  sick  of  the  palsy,)  Arise, 
and  take  up  thy  bed,  and  go  unto  thy  house." 
Having  wrought  the  invisible  miracle,  He  con- 
firmed it  by  the  visible,  the  spiritual  by  the 
bodily  cure.  And  why  did  He  do  thus?  That 
it  might  be  fulfilled,  which  is  spoken,  (Luke 
xix:  22.)  "  Out  of  thine  own  mouth  will  I 
judge  thee,  thou  wicked  servant."  For  what 
said  they?  "None  can  forgive  sins,  but  God 
alone  "  Of  course,  therefore,  no  Angel,  nor  Arch- 


angel, nor  any  other  create^  power.  This  ye  have 
yourselves  confessed.  And  what  then  ought  to  be 
said  ?  If  I  shall  be  shown  to  have  forgiven  sins, 
it  is  fully  evident  that  I  am  God.  However, 
He  said  it  not  thus,  but  what  said  He?  "But 
that  ye  may  know  that  the  Son  of  Man  hath 
power  on  earth  to  forgive  sins ;  then  saith  He 
to  the  sick  of  the  palsy,  Arise,  and  take  up  thy 
bed,  and  go  unto  thy  house."  (Matt,  ix:  6.) 
When  therefore,  He  would  say,  I  work  the  more 
difficult  miracle,  it  is  plain  that  there  is  no 
pretext  left  you,  no  room  for  gainsaying  about 
the  easier  one.1  Hence  it  was  that  He  wrought 
the  invisible  miracle  first,  because  there  were 
many  gainsay ers;  and  then  He  led  them  from 
the  invisible  to  the  visible  itself. 

Surely  then  the  faith  of  the  jailer  was  no 
light  or  hasty  faith.  He  saw  the  prisoners. 
And  he  saw  nothing,  he  heard  nothing  wrong ; 
he  saw  that  nothing  was  done  by  sorcery,  for 
they  were  singing  hymns  unto  God.  He  saw 
that  every  thing  done  proceeded  from  over- 
flowing kindness,  for  they  did  not  avenge 
themselves  against  him,  although  they  had  it 
in  their  power ;  for  it  was  in  their  power  to 
rescue  both  themselves  and  the  prisoners,  and 
escape  ;  and  if  not  the  prisoners,  at  all  events 
themselves;  but  they  did  not  do  this.  Thus  did 
they  challenge  his  reverence,  not  only  by  the 
miracle,  but  also  by  their  behavior.  For  how 
did  Paul  cry  out?  "  He  cried  with  a  loud  voice, 
saying,  Do  thyself  no  harm,  for  we  are  all 
here."  Thou  seest  at  once  his  freedom  from 
vain-glory  and  arrogance,  and  his  fellow-feeling. 
He  said  not,  "  It  is  for  us  these  wonders  have  been 
wrought,"  but  as  though  he  were  merely  one  of 
the  prisoners,  he  said,  "For  we  are  all  here." 
And  yet,  even  though  they  had  not  before  this 
loosed  themselves,  nor  had  done  so  by  means 
of  the  miracle,  still  they  might  have  been  silent, 
and  have  set  all  that  were  bound  at  liberty.  For 
had  they  held  their  peace,  and  had  they  not 
with  their  loud  crying  stayed  his  hand,  he 
would  have  thrust  the  sword  through  his  throat. 
Wherefore  also  Paul  cried  out,  because  he  had 
been  cast  into  the  inner  ward :  as  though  he 
had  said,  "  To  thine  own  injury  hast  thou  done 
this,  that  thou  hast  thrust  in  so  far  those  that 
could  deliver  thee  from  the  danger."  However 
they  imitated  not  the  treatment  they  had  re- 
ceived at  his  hands;  though,  had  he  died,  all 
would  have  escaped.  Thou  seest  that  they  chose 
rather  to  remain  in  bonds,  than  to  suffer  him  to 
perish.  Hence  too  might  he  reason  within 
himself,  "Had  they  been  sorcerers,  doubtless 

1  ["  The  one  requires  no  less  power  than  the  other,  the  same  di- 
vine c£ou<ria  enables  both  to  be  done.  But  that  ye  may  know  that 
I  was  entitled  to  say  the  one,  I  will  prove  to  you  that  1  have 
power  to  say  the  other." — Meyer.  Since  neither  is  easier  but 
each  alike  requires  divine  power,  if  1  can  prove  to  you  that  I  have 
this  divine  power  to  do  one,  that  will  prove  to  you  that  I  have 
power  to  do  the  other. — G.  A.] 


Homily  VIII.] 


HOMILIES  ON  EPHESIANS. 


«9 


they  would  have  set  the  others  at  liberty,  and 
have  released  themselves  from  their  bonds:" 
(lor  it  is  likely  that  many  such  had  also  been 
imprisoned.)  He  was  the  more  amazed,  in 
that  having  often  received  sorcerers  in  charge, 
he  had  yet  witnessed  nothing  done  like  this.  A 
sorcerer  never  would  have  shaken  the  founda- 
tions, so  as  to  startle  the  jailer  from  sleep,  and 
thus  render  his  own  escape  more  difficult. 

Now,  however,  let  us  proceed  to  look  at  the 
jailor's  faith.  "And,"  saith  the  Scripture, 
"he  called  for  lights  and  sprang  in,  and  trem- 
bling for  fear  fell  down  before  Paul  and  Silas, 
and  brought  them  out,  and  said,  Sirs,  what 
must  I  do  to  be  saved  ?  "  He  grasped  fire  and 
sword,  and  cried,  "Sirs,  what  must  I  do  to  be 
saved ?"  "And  they  said,  Believe  on  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ,  and  thou  shalt  be  saved,  thou 
and  thy  house."  (Actsxvi:  29-31.)  "This  is  not 
the  act  of  sorcerers,"  he  would  say,  "  to  deliver 
a  doctrine  like  this.  No  mention  any  where 
here  of  an  evil  spirit. ' '  Thou  seest  how  worthy  he 
was  to  be  saved  :  for  when  he  beheld  the  miracle, 
and  was  relieved  from  his  terror,  he  did  not  for- 
get what  most  concerned  him,  but  even  in  the 
midst  of  so  great  peril,  he  was  solicitous  about 
that  salvation  which  concerned  his  soul :  and 
came  before  them  in  such  a  manner  as  it  was 
meet  to  come  before  teachers  :  he  fell  down  at 
their  feet.  "And  they  spake,"  it  continues, 
"the  word  of  the  Lord,  unto  him  with  all  that 
were  in  his  house.  And  he  took  them  the  same 
hour  of  the  night,  and  washed  their  stripes  ; 
and  was  baptized,  he  and  all  his,  immediately." 
(Acts  xvi :  32,  33.)  Observe  the  fervency  of  the 
man!  He  did  not  delay;  he  did  not  say, 
"  Let  day  come,  let  us  see,  let  us  look  about 
us;"  but  with  great  fervency,  he  was  both 
himself  baptized,  and  all  his  house.  Yes,  not 
like  most  men  now-a-days,  who  suffer  both  ser- 
vants and  wives  and  children  to  go  unbaptized  l 
Be  ye,  I  beseech  you,  like  the  jailor.  I  say  not, 
in  authority,  but  in  purpose ;  for  what  is  the 
benefit  of  authority,  where  purpose  is  weak? 
The  savage  one,  the  inhuman  one,  who  lived  in 
the  practice  of  unnumbered  wrongs  and  made 
this  his  constant  study,  has  become  all  at  once 
so  humane,  so  tenderly  attentive.  ' '  He  washed, ' ' 
it  is  said,  "  their  stripes." 

And  mark,  on  the  other  hand,  the  fervency 
of  Paul  also.  Bound,  scourged,  thus  he  preached 
the  Gospel.  Oh,  that  blessed  chain,  with  how 
great  travail  did  it  travail  that  night,  what  chil- 
dren did  it  bring  forth  !  Yea  of  them  too  may 
he  say,  "Whom  I  have  begotten  in  my  bonds." 
(Philem.  x.)  Mark  thou,  how  he  glories,  and 
will  have  the  children  thus  begotten,  to  be  on 
that  account  the  more  illustrious  !  Mark  thou, 
how  transcendant  is  the  glory  of  those  bonds, 


1  ifuntrovt. 


in  that  they  give  lustre  not  only  to  him  that 
wore  them,  but  also  to  them  who  were  on  that 
occasion  begotten  by  him.  They  have  some 
advantage,  who  were  begotten  in  Paul's  bonds, 
I  say  not  in  respect  of  grace,  (for  grace  is  one 
and  the  same,)  nor  in  respect  of  remission,  (for 
remission  is  one  and  the  same  to  all,)  but  in 
that  they  are  thus  from  the  very  outset  taught 
to  rejoice  and  to  glory  in  such  things.  "The 
same  hour  of  the  night,"  it  is  said,  "he  took 
them,  and  washed  their  stripes,  and  was  bap- 
tized." 

And  now  then  behold  the  fruit.  He  straight- 
way recompensed  them  with  his  carnal  things. 
4 '  He  brought  them  up  into  his  house,  and  set 
meat  before  them,  and  rejoiced  greatly  with  all 
his  house,  having  believed  in  God."  For  what 
was  he  not  ready  to  do,  now  that  by  the  open- 
ing of  the  prison  doors,  heaven  itself  was  opened 
to  him  ?  He  washed  his  teacher,  he  set  food 
before  him,  and  rejoiced.  Paul's  chain  entered 
into  the  prison,  and  transformed  all  things 
there  into  a  Church ;  it  drew  in  its  train  the 
body  of  Christ,  it  prepared  the  spiritual  feast, 
and  travailed  with  that  birth,  at  which  Angels 
rejoice.  And  was  it  without  reason  then  that  I 
said  that  the  prison  was  more  glorious  than  ' 
Heaven  ?  For  it  became  a  source  of  joy  there ; 
yes,  if  "  there  is  joy  in  Heaven  over  one  sinner 
that  repenteth,"  (Luke  xv:  7.)  if,  "where 
two  or  three  are  gathered  together  in  His  Name, 
there  is  Christ  in  the  midst  of  them  ;  "  (Matt, 
xviii :  20.)  how  much  more,  where  Paul  and 
Silas,  and  the  jailor  and  all  his  house  were,  and 
faith  so  earnest  as  theirs  1  Observe  the  intense 
earnestness  of  their  faith. 

But  this  prison  has  reminded  me  of  another 
prison.  And  what  then  is  that?  It  is  that 
where  Peter  was.  Not,  however,  that  any  thing 
like  this  took  place  there.  No.  He  was  delivered 
to  four  quaternions  of  soldiers  to  keep  him  and 
he  sang  not,  he  watched  not,  but  he  slept ; 
neither,  again,  had  he  been  scourged.  And  yet 
was  the  peril  greater,  for  in  the  case  before  us 
indeed  the  end  was  accomplished,  and  the  pris- 
oners Paul  and  Silas,  had  undergone  their  pun- 
ishment ;  but  in  his  case  it  was  yet  to  come. 
So  that  though  there  were  no  stripes  to  torture 
him,  yet  was  there  the  anticipation  of  the 
future  to  distress  him.  And  mark  too  the  mir- 
acle there.  "Behold,  an  angel  of  the  Lord," 
it  is  related,  "stood  by  him,  and  a  light 
shined  in  the  cell ;  and  he  smote  Peter  on  the 
side,  and  awoke  him,  saying,  Rise  up  quickly. 
And  his  chains  fell  off  from  his  hands."  (Acts 
xii :  7.)  In  order  that  he  might  not  imagine  the 
transaction  to  be  the  work  of  the  light  alone,  he 
also  struck  Peter.  Now  no  one  saw  the  light,  save 
himself  only,  and  he  thought  it  was  a  vision.  So 
insensible  are  they  that  are  asleep  to  the  mercies 


t,irmA^ 


OcTH 


UNIVERS 

OF 

k/JFORN 


ITV 


90 


WORKS  OF  ST.  CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  VIIL 


of  God.  "  And  the  angel,"  it  proceeds,  "said 
unto  him,  Gird  thyself  and  bind  on  thy  san- 
dals ;  and  he  did  so.  And  he  saith  unto  him, 
Cast  thy  garment  about  thee,  and  follow  me. 
And  he  went  out  and  followed,  and  he  wist  not 
that  it  was  true  which  was  done  by  the  angel ; 
but  thought  he  saw  a  vision.  And  when  they 
were  past  the  first  and  the  second  ward,  they 
came  unto  the  iron  gate,  that  leadeth  unto  the 
city,  which  opened  to  them  of  his  own  accord; 
and  they  went  out,  and  passed  on  through  one 
street ;  and  straightway  the  angel  departed  from 
him."  (Actsxii:  8-10.)  Why  was  not  the  same 
thing  done  here  as  was  done  in  the  case  of  Paul 
and  Silas  ?  Because  in  that  case  they  were  in- 
tending to  release  them.  On  that  account  God 
willed  not  that  they  should  be  released  in  this 
manner.  Whereas  in  blessed  Peter's  case,  they 
were  intending  to  lead  him  forth  to  execution. 
But  what  then  ?  Would  it  not  have  been  far 
more  marvellous,  some  one  may  say,  had  he 
been  led  forth,  and  delivered  over  into  the 
king's  hands,  and  then  had  been  snatched  away 
from  the  very  midst  of  his  imminent  peril,  and 
sustained  no  harm  ?  For  thus  moreover,  neither 
had  the  soldiers  perished.  Great  is  the  question 
which  has  been  raised  upon  this  matter.  What ! 
did  God,  it  is  said,  save  His  own  servant  with 
the  punishment  of  others,  with  the  destruction 
of  others  ?  Now  in  the  first  place,  it  was  not 
with  the  destruction  of  others ;  for  this  did  not 
arise  from  the  ordering  of  providence,  but  arose 
from  the  cruelty  of  the  judge.  How  so  ?  God 
had  so  providentially  ordered  it,  as  that  not 
only  these  men  need  not  perish,  but  moreover 
that  even  he,  the  judge,  should  have  been  saved, 
just  as  in  this  case  of  the  jailor.  But  he  did  not 
use  the  boon  aright.  "  Now  as  soon  as  it  was 
day,"  it  continues,  "  there  was  no  small  stir 
among  the  soldiers,  what  was  become  of 
Peter."  And  what  then?  Herod  makes  strict 
inquiry  into  the  matter,  %'and  he  examined  the 
guards/'  it  is  related,  "and  commanded  that 
they  should  be  put  to  death."  ^Actsxii:  18- 
19.^  Now,  indeed,  had  he  not  examined  them, 
there  might  have  been  some  excuse  for  execut- 
ing them.  Whereas,  as  it  is,  he  had  them 
brought  before  him.  he  examined  them,  he 
found  that  Peter  had  been  bound,  that  the  pri- 
son had  been  well  secured,  that  the  keepers! 
were  before  the  doors.  No  wall  had  been  brok-  J 
en  through,  no  door  had  been  opened,  nor  was 
there  .my  other  evidence  whatever  of  false  deal- 1 
ing  He  ought  upon  this  to  have  been  awed  by  i 
the  p.>wer  of  God.  which  had  snatched  Peter  I 
from  the  very  midst  of  perils,  and  to  have  ador- . 
ed  Him  who  was  able  to  do  such  mighty  works. 
Rut.  on  the  contrary,  he  ordered  those  men  off 
to  execution.  How  then  in  this  case  is  God  the 
cause?    Had  He  *ndeed  caused  the  wall  to  be 


broken  through,  and  thus  had  extricated  Peter, 
possibly  the  deed  might  have  been  put  to  the 
account  of  their  negligence.  But  if  He  so  pro- 
videntially ordered  it,  as  that  the  matter  should 
be  shown  to  be  the  work  not  of  the  evil  agency 
of  man,  but  of  the  miraculous  agency  of  God, 
why  did  Herod  act  thus  ?  For  had  Peter  inten- 
ded to  flee,  he  would  have  fled  as  he  was,  with 
his  chains  on.  Had  he  intended  to  fly,  in  his 
confusion  he  never  would  have  had  so  great 
forethought  as  to  take  even  his  sandals,  but  he 
would  have  left  them.  Whereas,  as  it  is,  the 
object  of  the  Angel's  saying  unto  him,  "  Bind 
on  thy  sandals,"  was  that  they  might  know  that 
he  had  done  the  thing  not  in  the  act  of  flight, 
but  with  full  leisure.  For,  bound  as  he  was, 
and  fixed  between  the  two  soldiers,  he  never 
would  have  found  sufficient  time  to  unbind  the 
chains  also,  and  especially  as  he  too,  like  Paul, 
was  in  the  inner  ward.  Thus  then  was  the  pun- 
ishment of  the  keepers  owing  to  the  unrighteous- 
ness of  the  judge.  For  why  did  not  the  Jews1 
act  in  the  same  way  ?  For  now  again  I  am  re- 
minded of  yet  another  prison.  The  first  was 
that  at  Rome,  next,  was  this  at  Caesarea,  now 
we  come  to  that  at  Jerusalem.1  When  then  the 
chief  Priests  and  the  Pharisees  heard  from  those 
whom  they  had  sent  to  the  prison  to  bring  Peter 
out,  that  "  they  found  no  man  within,"  but 
both  doors  "  closed,"  and  "  the  keepers  stand- 
ing at  the  doors,"  why  was  it  tha{  they  not  only 
did  not  put  the  keepers  to  death,  but,  so  far 
from  it,  "  they  were  much  perplexed  concern- 
ing them  whereunto  this  would  grow."  Now  if 
the  Jews,  murderous  as  they  were  in  their  de- 
signs against  them,  yet  entertained  not  a 
thought  of  the  kind,  much  more  shouldest  not 
thou,  who  didst  every  thing  to  please  those 
Jews.  For  this  unrighteous  sentence  vengeance 
quickly  overtook  Herod. 

But  now  if  any  complain  of  this,  then  com- 
plain too  about  those  who  are  killed  on  the  high- 
way, and  about  the  ten  thousand  others  who  are 
unjustly  put  to  death,  and  further,  of  the  infants 
also  that  were  slaughtered  at  the  time  of  Christ's 
birth ;  for  Christ  also,  according  to  what  thou 
alleges*,  was  the  cause  of  their  deaths.  But  it 
was  not  Christ,  but  rather  the  madness  and  tyr- 
anny of  Herod's  father.  Dost  thou  ask,  Why 
then  did  He  not  snatch  Him  out  of  Herod's 
hands?  True.  He  might  have  done  so,  but 
there  would  have  been  nothing  gained  by  so 
doing.  How  many  times,  at  least,  did  Christ 
escape   even   from  the  grasp  of  their  hands? 

1  fThe  Tews,  when  they  impriMoed  the  Apastles  as  recorded  in 
Act*  v:  ii— G  A  1 

*  [The  priwo  »hich  sucpesied  this  discourse  (Eph.  ir  :  i.)  was 
that  *f  Paul  in  R.ime,  bat  the  next  one  mentioned  and  discoursed 
■f  t-y  Si  Chrysostom  was  the  one  in  which  Paul  was  at  Philippi. 
Art*  xvi  the  next  .-«e  was  the  pri*x»  where  Peter  was  at  Jerosa- 
1?-  and  th;s  las  aae  Acts  v  :  i^  at  Jerusalem  also.  No  mention 
ha*  been  made  of  any  imprisonment  at  Cmin  _    C.  A.] 


Homily  VI1L} 


HOMILIES  ON  EPHESIANS. 


9* 


And  yet  what  good  did  this  do  to  that  un- 
feeling people?  Whereas  here  there  is  even 
much  profit  arising  to  the  faithful  from  what 
was  done.  For  as  there  were  records  made, 
and  the  enemies  themselves  bore  testimony  to 
the  facts,  the  testimony  was  above  suspicion. 
As  therefore  in  that  instance  the  mouths  of  the 
enemies  were  stopped  in  no  other  way  whatever, 
but  only  by  the  persons  who  came  acknowledg- 
ing the  facts,  so  was  it  also  here.  For  why  did 
the  jailor  here  do  nothing  like  what  Herod  did  ? 
Nay,  and  the  things  which  Herod  witnessed 
were  not  at  all  less  wonderful  than  those  which 
this  man  witnessed.  So  far  as  wonder  goes,  it 
is  no  less  wonderful  to  be  assured  that  a  prisoner 
came  out  when  the  doors  were  closed,  than  it  is 
to  behold  them  set  open.  Indeed  this  last  might 
rather  have  seemed  to  be  perhaps  a  vision  of  the 
imagination,  the  other  never  could,  when  exactly 
and  circumstantially  reported.  So  that,  had 
this  man  been  as  wicked  as  Herod,  he  would 
have  slain  Paul,  as  Herod  did  the  soldiers ;  but 
such  he  was  not. 

If  any  one  should  ask,  '  Why  was  it  that  God 
permitted  the  children  also  to  be  murdered  ?  ' 
I  should  fall,  probably,  into  a  longer  discourse, 
than  was  originally  intended  to  be  addressed  to 
you. 

At  this  point,  however,  let  us  terminate  our 
discourse,  with  many  thanks  to  Paul's  chain,  for 
that  it  has  been  made  to  us  the  source  of  so  many 
blessings,  and  exhorting  you,  should  ye  have  to 
suffer  any  thing  for  Christ's  sake,  not  only  not  to 
repine,  but  to  rejoice,  as  the  Apostles  did,  yea, 
and  to  glory ;  as  Paul  said,  "  Most  gladly,  there- 
fore will  I  rather  glory  in  my  infirmities,"  (2 
Cor.  xii :  9. )  for  because  of  this  it  was  that  he 
heard  also  those  words,  "My  grace  is  sufficient 
for  thee."  Paul  glories  in  bonds;  and  dost  thou 
pride  thyself  in  riches  ?  The  Apostles  rejoiced 
that  they  were  counted  worthy  to  be  scourged, 
and  dost  thou  seek  for  ease  and  self-indulgence  ? 
On  what  ground  then,  dost  thou  wish  to  attain 
the  same  end  as  they,  if  here  on  earth  thou  art 
traveling  the  contrary  road  from  them  ?  "  And 
now,"  saith  Paul,  "  I  go  bound  in  the  spirit  unto 
Jerusalem,  not  knowing  the  things  that  shall 
befall  me  there ;  save  that  the  Holy  Ghost  testi- 
fieth  unto  me  in  every  city,  saying,  that  bonds 
and  afflictions  abide  me."  (Acts  xx  :  22.)  And 
why  then  dost  thou  set  out,  if  bonds  and  afflic- 
tions abide  thee?  For  this  very  reason,  saith 
he,  that  I  may  be  bound  for  Christ's  sake,  that 
I  may  die  for  His  sake.  "  For  I  am  ready  not 
to  be  bound  only,  but  also  to  die  for  the  name 
of  the  Lord  Jesus."  (Acts  xxi :  13.) 

Moral.  Nothing  can  be  more  blessed  than  that 
soul.  In  what  does  he  glory  ?  In  bonds,  in  afflic- 
tions, in  chains,  in  scars ;  "  I  bear  branded  on  my 
body,"  saith  he,  "the  marks  of  Jesus,"  (Gal. 


vi :  17.)  as  though  they  were  some  great  trophy. 
And  again,  "  For  because  of  the  hope  of  Israel,1 ' 
saith  he,  "I  am  bound  with  this  chain."  (Acts 
xxviii :  20.)  And  again,  "  For  which  I  am  an 
ambassador  in  chains."  (Eph.  vi:  20.)  What 
is  this?  Art  thou  not  ashamed,  art  thou  not 
afraid  going  about  the  world  as  a  prisoner? 
Dost  thou  not  fear  lest  any  one  should  charge 
thy  God  with  weakness  ?  lest  any  one  should  on 
this  account  refuse  to  come  near  thee  and  to  join 
the  fold  ?  No,  saith  he,  not  such  are  my  bonds. 
They  can  shine  brightly  even  in  kings'  palaces. 
"So  that  my  bonds,"  saith  he,  "became  mani- 
fest in  Christ,  throughout  the  whole  praetorian 
guard:  and  most  of  the  brethren  in  the  Lord, 
being  confident  through  my  bonds,  are  more 
abundantly  bold  to  speak  the  word  of  God  with- 
out fear."  (Phil,  i:  13,  14.)  Behold  ye  a  force 
in  bonds  stronger  than  the  raising  of  the  dead. 
They  beheld  me  bound,  and  they  are  the 
more  courageous.  For  where  bonds  are,  there 
of  necessity  is  something  great  also.  Where 
affliction  is,  there  verily  is  salvation  also,  there 
verily  is  solace,  there  verily  are  great  achieve- 
ments. For  when  the  devil  kicks,  then  is  he, 
doubtless,  hit.1  When  he  binds  God's  servants, 
then  most  of  all  does  the  word  gain  ground. 
And  mark  how  this  is  every  where  the  case. 
Paul  was  imprisoned ;  and  in  the  prison  he  did 
these  things,  yea,  saith  he,  by  my  very  bonds 
themselves.  He  was  imprisoned  at  Rome,  and 
brought  the  more  converts  to  the  faith ;  for  not 
only  was  he  himself  emboldened,  but  many 
others  also  because  of  him.  He  was  imprisoned 
at  Jerusalem,  and  preaching  in  his  bonds  he 
struck  the  king  with  amazement,  (Acts  xxvi: 
28.)  and  made  the  governor  tremble.  (Acts 
xxiv  :  25.)  For  being  afraid,  it  is  related,  he  let 
him  go,  and  he  that  had  bound  him  was  not 
ashamed  to  receive  instruction  concerning  the 
things  to  come  at  the  hands  of  him  whom  he 
had  bound.  In  bonds  he  sailed,  and  retrieved 
the  wreck,  and  bound  fast  the  tempest.  It  was 
when  he  was  in  bonds  that  the  monster  fastened 
on  him,  and  fell  off  from  his  hand,  having  done 
him  no  hurt.  He  was  bound  at  Rome,  and 
preaching  in  bonds  drew  thousands  to  his  cause, 
holding  forward,  in  the  place  of  every  other, 
this  very  argument,  I  mean  his  chain. 

It  is  not  however  our  lot  to  be  bound  now-a- 
days.  And  yet  there  is  another  chain  if  we 
have  a  mind  to  wear  it.  Aud  what  is  it  ?  It  is 
to  restrain  our  hand,  to  be  not  so  forward  to 
J  covetousness.  With  this  chain  let  us  bind  our- 
selves. Let  the  fear  of  God  be  unto  us  instead 
of  a  bond  of  iron.  Let  us  loose  them  that  are 
bound  by  poverty,  by  affliction.     There  is  no 

1  [This  reminds  ono  of  the  saying  of  an  eccentric  evangelist  in 
America  who  re fc ring  to  those  that  abused  and  persecuted  him  for 
the  severity  of  his  preaching  said,  "It's  always  the  hit  dog  that 
yelps  "— G.  A.] 


92 


WORKS  OF  ST.  CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  VllL 


comparison  between  opening  the  doors  of  a 
prison,  and  releasing  an  enthralled  soul.  There 
is  no  comparison  between  loosing  the  bonds  of 
prisoners  and  "  setting  at  liberty  them  that  are 
bruised;"  (Luke  iv:  18.)  this  last  is  far 
greater  than  the  other ;  for  the  other  there  is  no 
reward  in  store,  for  this  last  there  are  ten 
thousand  rewards. 

Paul's  chain  has  proved  a  long  one,  and  has 
detained  us  a  length  of  time.  Yea,  long  indeed 
it  is,  and  more  beautiful  than  any  cord  of  gold. 
A  chain  this,  which  draws  them  that  are  bound 
by  it,  as  it  were  by  a  kind  of  invisible  machin- 
ery, to  Heaven,  and,  like  a  golden  cord  let 
down,1  draws  them  up  to  the  Heaven  of  heavens. 
And  the  wonderful  thing  is  this,  that,  bound,  as 
it  is,  below,  it  draws  its  captives  upwards  :  and 
indeed  this  is  not  the  nature  of  the  things  them- 
selves. But  where  God  orders  and  disposes, 
look  not  for  the  nature  of  things,  nor  for  natural 
sentence,  but  for  things  above  nature  and 
natural  sequence. 

Let  us  learn  not  to  sink  under  affliction,  nor 
to  repine ;  for  look  at  this  blessed  saint.  He 
had  been  scourged,  and  sorely  scourged,  for  it 
is  said,  "When  they  had  laid  many  stripes 
upon  them."  He  had  been  bound  too,  and 
that  again  sorely,  for  the  jailor  cast  him  into  the 
inner  ward,  and  with  extraordinary  security. 
And  though  he  was  in  so  many  perils,  at  mid- 
night, when  even  the  most  wakeful  are  asleep 
with  sleep,  another  and  a  stronger  bond  upon 
them,  they  chanted  and  sang  praise  unto  the 
Lord.  What  can  be  more  adamantine  than 
these  souls?  They  bethought  them  how  that 
the  holy  Children  sang  even  in  fire  and  furnace. 
(Dan.  iii:  1-30.)  Perhaps  they  thus  reasoned 
with  themselves,  "we  have  as  yet  suffered 
nothing  like  that." 

But  our  discourse  has  done  well,  in  that  it 
has  thus  brought  us  out  again  to  other  bonds, 
and  into  another  prison.  What  am  I  to  do  ?  I 
would  fain  be  silent,  but  am  not  able.  I  have 
discovered  another  prison,  far  more  wonderful 
and  more  astonishing  than  the  former.  But,  come 
now,  rouse  yourselves,  as  though  I  were  just 
commencing  my  discourse,  and  attend  to  me 
with  your  minds  fresh.  I  would  fain  break  off 
the  discourse,  but  it  will  not  suffer  me ;  for  just 
as  a  man  in  the  midst  of  drinking  cannot  bear 
to  break  off  his  draught,  whatever  any  one  may 
promise  him ;  so  I  too,  now  I  have  laid  hold  of 
this  glorious  cup  of  the  prison  of  them  that 
were  bound  for  Christ's  sake,  I  cannot  leave  off, 
I  cannot  hold  my  peace.  For  if  Paul  in  the 
prison,  and  in  the  night,  kept  not  silence,  no, 
nor  under  the  scourge ;  shall  I,  who  am  sitting2 


1  [This  passage  reminds  one  of  the  famous  golden  chain  of 
Homer,  <r€ipr\v  yovcrciifir,  (Iliad  viii :  19-27)  to  which  several  alle- 
gorical meanings  nave  been  given. — G.  A.J 


here  by  daylight,  and  speaking  so  much  at  my 
ease,  shall  I  hold  my  peace,  when  men  in 
bonds,  and  under  the  scourge,  and  at  midnight 
could  not  endure  to  do  so?  The  holy  Children 
were  not  silent,  no,  not  in  the  furnace  and  in 
the  fire,  and  are  not  we  ashamed  to  hold  our 
peace  ?  Let  us  look  then  at  this  prison  also. 
Here  too,  they  were  bound,  but  at  once  and 
from  the  very  outset  it  was  evident  that  they 
were  not  about  to  be  burned,  but  only  to  enter 
as  into  a  prison.  For  why  do  ye  bind  men 
who  are  about  to  be  committed  to  the  flames  ? 
They  were  bound,  as  Paul  was,  hand  and  foot. 
They  were  bound  with  as  great  violence  as  he 
was.  For  the  jailor  thrust  him  into  the  inner 
prison ;  and  the  king  commanded  the  furnace 
to  be  intensely  heated.  And  now  let  us  see  the 
issue.  When  Paul  and  Silas  sang,  the  prison 
was  shaken,  and  the  doors  were  opened.  When 
the  three  Children  sang,  the  bonds  both  of 
their  feet  and  hands  were  loosed.  The  prison 
was  opened,  and  the  doors  of  the  furnace  were 
opened :  for  a  dewy  breeze  whistled  through  it. 

But  many  thoughts  crowd  around  me.  I 
know  not  which  to  utter  first,  and  which  second. 
Wherefore,  let  no  one,  I  entreat,  require  order 
of  me,  for  the  subjects  are  closely  allied. 

They  who  were  bound  together  with  Paul 
and  Silas  were  loosed,  and  yet  nevertheless  they 
slept.  In  the  case  of  the  three  Children,  in- 
stead of  that,  something  else  took  place.  The 
men  who  had  cast  them  in,  were  themselves 
burned  to  death.  And  then,  as  I  was  fain  to 
tell  you,  the  king  beheld  them  loose,  and  fell 
down  before  them :  he  heard  them  singing 
their  song  of  praise,  and  beheld  four  walking, 
and  he  called  them.  As  Paul,  though  able  to 
do  so,  came  not  forth,  until  he  who  had  cast 
him  in,  called  him,  and  brought  him  forth :  so 
neither  did  the  three  Children  come  forth,  un- 
til he  who  had  cast  them  in  commanded  them 
to  come  forth.  What  lesson  are  we  taught 
from  this  ?  Not  to  be  over  hasty  in  courting 
persecution,  nor  when  in  tribulation  to  be  over 
eager  for  deliverance,  and  on  the  other  hand 
when  they  release  us  not  to  continue  in  it. 
Further,  the  jailor,  inasmuch  as  he  was  able  to 
enter  in  where  the  saints  were,  fell  down  at 
their  feet.  The  king  came  but  to  the  door  and 
fell  down.  He  dared  not  approach  into  the 
prison  which  he  had  prepared  for  them  in  the 
fire.  And  now  mark  their  words.  The  one 
cried,  "Sirs,  what  must  I  do  to  be  saved?" 
(Acts  xvi  :  30.)  The  other,  though  not  in- 
deed with  so  great  humility,  yet  uttered  a  voice 
no  less  sweet,  "Shadrach,  Meshach,  and 
Abednego,  ye  servants  of  the  most  high  God, 
come  forth,  and  come  hither."  (Dan.  iii:  26.) 

»  [The  ancient  custom  was  the  reverse  of  ours,  for  the  preacher 

commonly  delivered    his  sermon  sitting,  and  the  people  heard  it 

I  standing. — Bingham  Antiquities  Bk.  xiv.  Ch.  iv.  Sec.  24, — G.  A.J 


Howly  VIII.J 


HOMILIES  ON  EPHESIANS. 


93 


Mighty  dignity  !  "Ye  servants  of  the  most 
high  God,  come  forth,  and  come  hither."  How 
are  they  to  come  forth,  O  king?  Thou  didst 
cast  them  into  the  fire  bound  ;  they  have  con- 
tinued this  long  time  in  the  fire.  Why,  had 
they  been  made  of  adamant,  had  they  been 
blocks  of  metal,  in  singing  that  entire  hymn, 
must  they  not  have  perished  ?  On  this  account 
then  they  were  saved,  because  they  sang  praises 
to  God.  The  fire  reverenced  their  readiness  to 
suffer  and  afterwards  it  reverenced  that  wonder- 
ful song,  and  their  hymns  of  praise.  By  what 
title  dost  thou  call  them?  I  said  before,  "Ye 
servants  of  the  most  high  God."  Yes,  to  the 
servants  of  God,  all  things  are  possible ;  for  if 
some,  who  are  the  servants  of  men,  have, 
nevertheless,  power,  and  authority,  and  the  dis- 
posal of  their  concerns,  much  more  have  the 
servants  of  God.  He  called  them  by  the  name 
most  delightful  to  them,  he  knew  that  by  this 
means  he  flattered  them  most:  for  indeed,  if 
it  was  in  order  to  continue  servants  of  God, 
that  they  entered  into  the  fire,  there  could  be  no 
sound  more  delightful  to  them  than  this.  Had 
he  called  them  kings,  had  he  called  them  lords 
of  the  world,  yet  would  he  not  so  truly  have 
rejoiced  them  as  when  he  said,  "  Ye  servants  of 
the  most  high  God."  And  why  marvel  at  this ? 
when,  in  writing  to  the  mighty  city,  to  her  who 
was  mistress  of  the  world,  and  prided  herself 
upon  her  high  dignities,  Paul  set  down  as 
equivalent  in  dignity,  nay,  as  far  greater,  yea 
incomparably  greater  than  consulship,  or  kingly 
name,  or  than  the  empire  of  the  world,  this 
title,  "Paul,  a  servant1  of  Jesus  Christ."  (Ro. 
i:  i.)  "Ye  servants  of  the  most  high  God." 
"Yes,"  he  would  say,  "if  they  show  so  great 
zeal  as  to  be  bond-servants,  doubtless  this  is 
the  title  by  which  we  shall  conciliate  them. 

Again,  observe  also  the  piety  of  the  Children  : 
they  showed  no  indignation,  no  anger,  no  gain- 
saying, but  they  came  forth.  Had  they  regarded 
it  as  an  act  of  vengeance  that  they  had  been 
thrown  into  the  furnace,  they  would  have  been 
grieved  against  the  man  who  had  cast  them  in ; 
as  it  is,  there  is  nothing  of  the  kind ;  but,  as 
though  they  were  going  forth  from  Heaven 
itself,  so  went  they  forth.  And  what  the  Prophet 
says  of  the  Sun,  that  "  He  is  as  a  bridegroom 
coming  forth  out  of  his  chamber,"  (Ps.  xix:  5.) 
one  would  not  go  amiss  in  saying  also  of  them. 
But  though  he  goes  forth  thus,  yet  came  they 
forth  there  more  gloriously  than  he,  for  he  in- 
deed comes  forth  to  enlighten  the  world  with 
natural  light,  they  to  enlighten  the  world  in  a 
different  way,  I  mean,  spiritually.  For  because 
of  them  the  king  straightway  issued  a  decree, 
containing  these  words,  "  It  hath  seemed  good 

TThe  word  in  the  Greek  tovKot  which  means  a  bond-slave,  though 
softened  in  the  Auth.  Ver.  to  "  servant "  and  in  the  Rev.  Ver.  to 
"  bond-servant."— G.  A.] 


unto  me  to  show  the  signs  and  wonders  that  the 
Most  High  God  hath  wrought  toward  me.  How 
great  are  His  signs !  And  how  mighty  are  His 
wonders  !  "  (Dan.  iv :  2,3.)  So  that  they  went 
forth,  shedding  a  yet  more  glorious  radiance, 
beaming  indeed  in  that  region  itself,  but,  what 
is  more  than  all,  capable,  by  means  of  the 
king's  writings,  of  being  diffused  over  the  world 
and  thus  of  dispelling  the  darkness  which  every 
where  prevails.  "  Come  forth,"  said  he,  "  and 
come  hither."  He  gave  no  commandment2  to 
extinguish  the  flame,  but  hereby  most  espe- 
cially honored  them,  by  believing  that  they 
were  able  not  only  to  walk  within  it,  but  even 
to  come  out  of  it  while  it  was  still  burning. 

But  let  us  look  again,  if  it  seem  good  to  you, 
at  the  words  of  the  jailor,  "  Sirs,  what  must  I 
do  to  be  saved  ?  "  What  language  sweeter  than 
this  ?  This  makes  the  very  Angels  leap  for  joy. 
To  hear  this  language,  even  the  Only-begotten 
Son  of  God  Himself  became  a  servant.  This 
language  they  who  believed  at  the  beginning 
addressed  to  Peter.  (Acts  ii:  37.)  "What 
shall  we  do?"  And  what  said  he  in  answer ? 
"Repent  and  be  baptized."  To  have  heard 
this  language  from  the  Jews,  gladly  would  Paul 
have  been  cast  even  in  to  hell,  in  his  eagerness  for 
their  salvation  and  obedience.  But  observe,  he 
commits  the  whole  matter  to  them,  he  wastes 
no  unnecessary  pains.  Let  us  however  look  at 
the  next  point.  The  king  here  does  not  say, 
What  must  I  do  to  be  saved  ?  but  the  teaching 
is  plainer  in  his  case  than  any  language  what- 
ever ;  for  he  straightway  becomes  a  preacher, 
he  needs  not  to  be  instructed  like  the  jailor.  He 
proclaims  God,  and  makes  confession  of  His 
power.  "  Of  a  truth  your  God  is  the  God  of 
Gods  and  the  Lord  of  Kings,  because  He  hath 
sent  His  Angel,  and  hath  delivered  you." 
(Dan.  ii :  47 ;  iii :  28.)  And  what  was  the  se- 
quel ?  Not  one  single  jailor,  but  numbers  are 
instructed  by  the  king's  writings,  by  the  sight 
of  the  facts.  For  that  the  king  would  not  have 
told  a  falsehood  is  evident  enough  to  every  one, 
because  he  never  would  have  chosen  to  bear 
such  testimony  to  captives,  nor  to  overthrow  his 
own  acts  ;  he  never  would  have  chosen  to  incur 
the  imputation  of  such  utter  madness :  so  that 
had  not  the  truth  been  abundantly  manifest,  he 
would  not  have  written  in  such  terms,  and  with 
so  many  persons  present. 

Perceive  ye  how  great  is  the  power  of  bonds? 
How  great  the  force  of  those  praises  that  are 
sung  in  tribulation  ?  Their  heart  failed  not, 
they  were  not  cast  down,  but  were  then  yet 
more  vigorous,  and  their  courage  then  yet 
greater  and  justly  so. 

While  we  are  considering  these  things  one 

*  [Field's  text  has  here  irbXfirjat,  '  he  did  not  venture ;'  but  that 
gives  a  sense  less  satisfactory  than  the  text  of  Savile  and  the  Ox- 
ford translator,  ixdXtvtrt,  which  is  well  attested.— G.  A.] 


94 


WORKS  OF  ST.  CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  DL 


question  yet  remains  for  us:  Why  was  it  that  in 
the  prison  on  the  one  hand,  the  prisoners  were 
loosed,  whilst  in  the  furnace  the  executioners 
were  burnt  to  death :  for  that  indeed  should 
have  been  the  king's  fate,  because  neither  were 
they  who  bound  them,  nor  they  who  cast  them 
into  the  furnace,  guilty  of  so  great  sin  as  the 
man  who  commanded  this  should  be  done. 
Why  then  did  they  perish?  On  this  point 
there  is  not  any  very  great  need  of  minute  ex- 
amination ;  for  they  were  wicked  men.  And 
therefore  this  was  providentially  ordered,  that 
the  power  of  the  fire  might  be  shown,  and  the 
miracle  might  be  made  more  signal ;  for  if  it 
thus  devoured  them  that  were  without,  how  did 
it  show  them  unscathed  that  were  within  it  ?  it 
was  that  the  power  of  God  might  be  made  man- 
ifest. And  let  no  one  wonder  that  I  have  put 
the  king  on  a  level  with  the  jailor,  for  he  did  the 
same  thing ;  the  one  was  in  no  wise  more  noble 
than  the  other,  and  they  both  had  their  reward. 

But,  as  I  said,  the  righteous,  when  they  are 
in  tribulations,  are  then  especially  more  ener- 
getic, and  when  they  are  in  bonds :  for  to  suf- 
fer any  thing  for  Christ's  sake  is  the  sweetest  of 
all  consolation. 

Will  ye  that  I  remind  you  of  yet  another 
prison?  It  seems  necessary  to  go  on  from  this 
chain  to  another  prison  still.  And  which  will  ye  ? 
Shall  it  be  that  of  Jeremiah,  or  of  Joseph,  or  of 
John  ?  Thanks  to  Paul's  chain ;  how  many  prisons 
has  it  opened  to  our  discourse?    Will  ye  have 


that  of  John?  He  also  was  once  bound  for 
Christ's  sake,  and  for  the  law  of  God.  What  then  ? 
Was  he  idle  when  he  was  in  prison  ?  Was  it 
not  from  thence  he  sent,  by  his  disciples,  and 
said,  "Art  Thou  He  that  comet h,  or  look  we 
for  another  ?  "(Matt,  xi :  2,  3.)  Even  when  there, 
then,  it  seems  he  taught,  for  surely  he  did  not 
disregard  his  duty.  But  again,  did  not  Jere- 
miah prophesy  concerning  the  king  of  Babylon, 
and  fulfil  his  work  even  there  in  prison  ?  And 
what  of  Joseph  ?  Was  he  not  in  prison  thirteen 
years?  What  then?  Not  even  there  did  he 
forget  his  virtue.  I  have  yet  to  mention  the 
bonds  of  one  and  therewith  will  close  my  dis- 
course. Our  Master  Himself  was  bound,  He 
who  loosed  the  world  from  sins.  Those  hands 
were  bound,  those  hands  that  wrought  ten  thou- 
sand good  deeds.  For,  "they  bound  Him," 
it  saith,  "and  led  Him  away  toCaiaphas;  " 
(Matt,  xxvii:  2  ;  John,  xviii:  24.)  yes,  He  was 
bound  who  had  wrought  so  many  marvellous 
works. 

Reflecting  onf these  things,  let  us  never  repine  ; 
but  whether  we  be  in  bonds,  let  us  rejoice ;  or 
whether  we  be  not  in  bonds,  let  us  be  as  though 
we  were  bound  together  with  Him.  See  how 
great  a  blessing  are  bonds !  Knowing  all  these 
things,  let  us  send  up  our  thanksgiving  for  all 
things  to  God,  through  Christ  Jesus  our  Lord 
with  whom  to  the  Father,  together  with  the 
Holy  Ghost,  be  glory  might  and  honor,  now 
and  forever  and  ever.  Amen. 


HOMILY  IX 

Chapter  iv.  Verses  i — 3. 


M I  therefore,  the  prisoner  in  the  Lord,  beseech  you,  to 
walk  worthily  of  the  calling  wherewith  ye  were  called, 
with  all  lowliness  and  meekness,  with  long-suffering, 
forbearing  one  another  in  love ;  giving  diligence  to 
keep  the  unity  of  the  Spirit  in  the  bond  of  peace." 

Great  has  the  power  of  Paul's  chain  been 
shown  to  be,  and  more  glorious  than  miracles. 
It  is  not  in  vain  then,  as  it  should  seem,  nor 
without  an  object,  that  he  here  holds  it  forward, 
but  as  the  means  of  all  others  most  likely  to 
touch  them.  And  what  saith  he?  "I  there- 
fore, the  prisoner  in  the  Lord,  beseech  you,  to 
walk  worthily  of  the  calling  wherewith  ye  were 
called. "  And  how  is  that?  "  with  all  lowliness 
and  meekness,  with  long-suffering,  forbearing 
one  another  in  love." 

It  is  not  the  being  merely  a  prisoner  that  is 
honorable,  but  the  being  so  for  Christ's  sake. 


Hence  he  saith,  "in  the  Lord,"  i.  e.,  the  pris- 
oner for  Christ's  sake.  Nothing  is  equal  to  this. 
But  now  the  chain  is  dragging  me  away  still 
more  from  my  subject,  and  pulling  me  back 
again,  and  I  cannot  bear  to  resist  it,  but  am 
drawn  along  willingly, — yea,  rather,  with  all  my 
heart ;  and  would  that  it  were  always  my  lot  to 
be  descanting  on  Paul's  chain. 

But  now  do  not  become  drowsy :  for  I  am 
yet  desirous  to  solve  that  other  question,  which 
many  raise,  when  they  say,  Why,  if  tribulation 
be  a  glory,  how  came  Paul  himself  to  say  in  his 
defence1  to  Agrippa,  "I  would  to  God  that 
whether  with  little  or  with  much  not  thou  only, 

'[Field's  text  has  here  a  much  shorter  reading  as  follows :    For  a 
question  now  suggests  itself  to  me  ;  for  since  Paul  in  his  defence, 
etc.    This  reading  leaves  the  sense  incomplete.    The  reading  of 
the  Oxford  translator,  as  given  above,  is  internally  more  satisfac- 
tory and  is  attested  by  several  excellent  authorities,— G.  A.] 


Homily  IX.] 


HOMILIES  ON  EPHESIANS. 


95 


but  also  all  that  hear  me  this  day,  might  become 
such  as  I  am,  except  these  bonds  ? ' '  (Acts  xxvi : 
29.)  He  said  not  this,  God  forbid  !  as  deem- 
ing the  thing  a  matter  to  be  deprecated ;  no ; 
for  had  it  been  such,  he  would  not  have  gloried 
in  bonds,  in  imprisonments,  in  those  other  tribu- 
lations ;  and  when  writing  elsewhere  he  saith, 
"  Most  gladly  will  I  rather  glory  in  my  weak- 
nesses." (2  Cor.  xii :  9.)  But  what  is  the  case? 
This  was  itself  a  proof  how  great  a  thing  he 
considered  those  bonds ;  for  as  in  writing  to  the 
Corinthians  he  said,  "I  fed  you  with  milk,  not 
with  meat,  for  ye  were  not  yet  able  to  bear  it ;  " 
(1  Cor.  iii :  2.)  so  also  here.  They  before  whom 
he  spoke  were  not  able  to  hear  ot  the  beauty, 
nor  the  comeliness,  nor  the  blessing  of  those 
bonds.  Hence1  it  was  he  added,  "  except  these 
bonds."  To  the  Hebrews  however  he  spoke  not 
thus,  but  exhorted  them  to  "  be  bound  with  " 
(Heb.  xiii :  3.)  them  that  were  in  bonds.  And 
hence  too  did  he  himself  rejoice  in  his  bonds, 
and  was  bound,  and  was  led  with  the  prisoners 
into  the  inner  prison.  Mighty  is  the  power  of 
Paul's  chain!  A  spectacle  this,  which  may 
suffice  for  every  other,  to  behold  Paul  bound, 
and  led  forth  from  his  prison  ;  to  behold  him 
bound,  and  sitting  within  it,  what  pleasure  can 
come  up  to  this  ?  What  would  I  not  give  for 
such  a  sight  ?  Do  ye  see  the  emperors,  the  con- 
suls, borne  along  in  their  chariots  and  arrayed 
in  gold,  and  their  body-guard  with  every  thing 
about  them  of  gold  ?  Their  halberds  of  gold, 
their  shields  of  gold,  their  raiment  of  gold,  their 
horses  with  trappings  of  gold?  How  much 
more  delightful  than  such  a  spectacle  is  his ! 
I  would  rather  see  Paul  once,  going  forth  with 
the  prisoners  from  his  prison,  than  behold  these 
ten  thousand  times  over,  parading  along  with  all 
that  retinue.  When  he  was  thus  led  forth,  how 
many  Angels,  suppose  ye,  led  the  way  before 
him  ?  And  to  show  that  I  speak  no  fiction,  I 
will  make  the  fact  manifest  to  you  from  a  certain 
ancient  narrative. 

Elisha  the  prophet,  (  perhaps  ye  know  the 
man,)  at  the  time  (2  Kings  vi :  8-12.)  when  the 
king  of  Syria  was  at  war  with  the  king  of  Israel, 
sitting  at  his  own  home,  brought  to  light  all  the 
counsels  which  the  king  of  Syria  was  taking  in 
his  chamber  with  them  that  were  privy  to  his  de- 
signs, and  rendered  the  king's  counsels  of  none 
effect,  by  telling  beforehand  his  secrets,  and  not 
suffering  the  king  of  Israel  to  fall  into  the  snares 
which  he  was  laying.  This  sorely  troubled  the 
king;  he  was  disheartened,  and  was  reduced  to 
greater  perplexity ,  not  knowing  how  to  discover 
him  who  was  disclosing  all  that  passed,  and  plot- 
ting against  him,  and  disappointing  his  schemes. 


'[It  is  very  doubtful  that  this  was  Paul's  design  in  saying 
"except  these  bonds."  It  is  more  probable  he  wished  that  others 
aigbt  enjoy  the  blessings  of  Christianity  without  sharing  in  those 
•offerings  which  be  himself  was  glad  to  endure.— G.  A.] 


Whilst  therefore  he  was  in  this  perplexity,  and 
enquiring  into  the  cause,  one  of  his  armor- 
bearers  told  him,  that  there  was  a  certain 
prophet,  one  Elisha,  dwelling  in  Samaria,  who 
suffered  not  the  king's  designs  to  stand,  but 
disclosed  all  that  passed.  The  king  imagined 
that  he  had  discovered  the  whole  matter.  Sure, 
never  was  any  one  more  miserably  misled  than 
he.  When  he  ought  to  have  honored  the  man, 
to  have  reverenced  him,  to  have  been  awed  that 
he  really  possessed  so  great  power,  as  that,  seated, 
as  he  was,  so  many  furlongs  off,  he  should  know 
all  that  passed  in  the  king's  chamber,  without 
any  one  at  all  to  tell  him  ;  this  indeed  he  did 
not,  but  being  exasperated,  and  wholly  carried 
away  by  his  passion,  he  equips  horsemen,  and 
soldiers,  and  dispatches  them  to  bring  the 
prophet  before  him. 

Now  Elisha  had  a  disciple  as  yet  only  on 
the  threshold  of  prophecy,  (2  Kings  vi:  i3ff.) 
as  yet  far  from  being  judged  worthy  of  revela- 
tions of  this  kind.  The  king's  soldiers  arrived 
at  the  spot,  as  intending  to  bind  the  man,  or 
rather  the  prophet. — Again  I  am  falling  upon 
bonds,  so  entirely  is  this  discourse  interwoven 
with  them. — And  when  the  disciple  saw  the 
host  of  soldiers,  he  was  affrighted,  and  ran  full 
of  trembling  to  his  master,  and  told  him  the 
calamity,  as  he  thought,  and  informed  him  of 
the  inevitable  peril.  The  prophet  smiled  at  him 
for  fearing  things  not  worthy  to  be  feared,  and 
bade  him  be  of  good  cheer.  The  disciple, 
however,  being  as  yet  imperfect,  did  not  listen 
to  him,  but  being  still  amazed  at  the  sight,  re- 
mained in  fear.  Upon  this,  what  did  the 
prophet  do?  "Lord,"  said  he,  "open  the 
eyes  of  this  young  man,  and  let  him  see  that 
they  which  are  with  us,  are  more  than  they 
which  are  with  them ;  "  (2  Kings  vi :  16,  17.) 
and  immediately  he  beheld  the  whole  mountain, 
where  the  prophet  then  dwelt,  filled  with  so 
great  a  multitude  of  horses  and  chariots  of  fire. 
Now  these  were  nothing  else  than  ranks  of 
Angels.  But  if  only  for  an  occasion  like  this 
so  great  a  band  of  Angels  attended  Elisha  what 
must  Paul  have  had  ?  This  is  what  the  prophet 
David  tells  us.  "The  Angel  of  the  Lord  en- 
campeth  round  about  them  that  fear  Him.M 
(Ps.  xxxiv  :  7.)  And  again  ;  "  They  shall  bear 
thee  up  in  their  hands,  lest  thou  dash  thy  foot 
against  a  stone."  (Ps.  xci :  2.)  And  why  do  I 
speak  of  Angels?  The  Lord  Himself  was  with 
him  then  as  he  went  forth  ;  for  surely  it  cannot 
be  that  He  was  seen  by  Abraham,  and  yet  was 
not  with  Paul.  No,  it  was  His  own  promise, 
"I  am  with  you  alway,  even  unto  the  end  of 
the  world."  (Matt,  xxviii :  20.)  And  again, 
when  He  appeared  to  him,  He  said,  "Be  not 
afraid,  but  speak,  for  I  am  with  thee,  and  no 
man  shall  set  on  thee  to  harm  thee."  (Acts  xviii : 


98 


WORKS  OF  ST.  CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  IX. 


love  consists.  Again,  he  who  loves  submits  to 
all  these  things,  and  thus  do  they  reciprocally 
produce  one  another.  And  this  indeed,  that 
love  springs  from  virtue,  appears  from  hence, 
because  our  Lord  when  He  saith,  "because 
iniquity  shall  be  multiplied,  the  love  of  the 
many  shall  wax  cold,"  plainly  tells  us  this. 
And  that  virtue  springs  from  love,  Paul  tells  us, 
saying,  "  He  that  loveth  his  neighbor  hath  ful- 
filled the  law."  (Rom.  xiii :  10.)  So  then  a 
man  must  be  one  of  the  two,  either  very  affect- 
ionate and  much  beloved,  or  else  very  virtuous ; 
for  he  who  has  the  one,  of  necessity  possesses 
the  other ;  and,  on  the  contrary,  he  who  knows 
not  how  to  love,  will  therefore  commit  many 
evil  actions ;  and  he  who  commits  evil  actions, 
knows  not  what  it  is  to  love. 

Moral.  Let  us  therefore  follow  after  charity ; 
it  is  a  safeguard  which  will  not  allow  us  to  suffer 
any  evil.  Let  us  bind  ourselves  together.  Let 
there  be  no  deceit  amongst  us,  no  hollowness. 
For  where  friendship  is,  there  nothing  of  the 
sort  is  found.  This  too  another  certain  wise 
man  tells  us.  "  Though  thou  drewest  a  sword 
at  thy  friend,  yet  despair  not :  for  there  may  be 
a  returning  again  to  favor.  If  thou  hast  opened 
thy  mouth  against  thy  friend,  fear  not;  for 
there  may  be  a  reconciliation :  except  for  up- 
braiding, or  disclosing  of  secrets,  or  a  treacher- 
ous wound :  for  for  these  things  a  friend  will 
depart."  (Ecclus.  xxii:  21,  22.)  For  "disclos- 
ing," saith  he,  "of  secrets."  Now  if  we  be 
all  friends,  there  is  no  need  of  secrets ;  for  as 
no  man  has  any  secret  with  himself  and  cannot 
conceal  anything  from  himself;  so  neither  will 
he  from  his  friends.  Where  then  no  secrets 
exist,  separation  arising  from  this  is  impossible. 
For  no  other  reason  have  we  secrets,  than 
because  we  have  not  confidence  in  all  men.  So 
then  it  is  the  waxing  cold  of  love,  which  has 
produced  secrets.  For  what  secret  hast  thou  ? 
Dost  thou  desire  to  wrong  thy  neighbor  ?  Or, 
art  thou  hindering  him  from  sharing  some 
benefit,  and  on  this  account  concealest  it  ?  But, 
no,  perhaps  it  is  none  of  these  things.  What 
then,  is  it  that  thou  art  ashamed  ?  If  so,  then 
this  is  a  token  of  want  of  confidence.  Now 
then  if  there  be  love,  there  will  be  no  "  reveal- 
ing of  secrets,"  neither  any  "upbraiding." 
For  who,  tell  me,  would  ever  upbraid  his  own 


soul?  And  suppose  even  such  a  thing  were 
done,  it  would  be  for  some  good ;  for  we  up- 
braid children,  we  know,  when  we  desire  to 
make  them  feel.  And  so  Christ  too  on  that 
occasion  began  to  upbraid  the  cities,  saying, 
"Woe  unto  thee,  Chorazin !  woe  unto  thee, 
Bethsaida  !  "  (Luke  x :  13.)  in  order  that  He 
might  deliver  them  from  upbraidings.  For 
nothing  has  such  power  to  lay  hold  of  the  mind, 
or  can  more  strongly  arouse  it,  or  brace  it  up 
when  relaxed.  Let  us  then  never  use  upbraid- 
ing to  one  another  merely  for  the  sake  of 
upbraiding.  For  what?  Wilt  thou  upbraid 
thy  friend  on  the  score  of  money  ?  Surely  not, 
if  at  least  thou  possessest  what  thou  hast  in 
common.  Wilt  thou  then  for  his  faults? 
No  nor  this,  but  thou  wilt  rather  in  that  case 
correct  him.  Or,  as  it  goes  on,  "  for  a 
treacherous  wound;"  who  in  the  world  will 
kill  himself,  or  who  wound  himself?  No 
one. 

Let  us  then  "follow  after  love;  "  he  saith 
not  simply  let  us  love ;  but  let  us  "follow  after 
love."  (1  Cor.  xiv:  1.)  There  is  need  of  much 
eagerness :  she  is  soon  out  of  sight,  she  is  most 
rapid  in  her  flight ;  so  many  things  are  there  in 
life  which  injure  her.  If  we  follow  her,  she  will 
not  outstrip  us  and  get  away,  but  we  shall 
speedily  recover  her.  The  love  of  God  is  that 
which  united  earth  to  Heaven.  It  was  the  love 
of  God  that  seated  man  upon  the  kingly  throne. 
It  was  the  love  of  God  that  manifested  God 
upon  earth.  It  was  the  love  of  God  that  made 
the  Lord  a  servant.  It  was  the  love  of  God  that 
caused  the  Beloved  to  be  delivered  up  for  His 
enemies,  the  Son  for  them  that  hated  Him,  the 
Lord  for  His  servants,  God  for  men,  the  free 
for  slaves.  Nor  did  it  stop  here,  but  called  us  to 
yet  greater  things.  Yes,  not  only  did  it  release 
us  from  our  former  evils,  but  promised,  more- 
over, to  bestow  upon  us  other  much  greater 
blessings.  For  these  things  then  let  us  give 
thanks  to  God,  and  follow  after  every  virtue ; 
and  before  all  things,  let  us  with  all  strictness 
practice  love,  that  we  may  be  counted  worthy 
to  attain  the  promised  blessings ;  through  the 
grace  and  loving-kindness  of  our  Lord  Jesus 
Christ,  with  whom,  to  the  Father  together  with 
the  Holy  Ghost,  be  glory,  might,  and  honor, 
now  and  for  ever  and  ever.     Amen. 


Homily  X.] 


HOMILIES   ON    EPHESIANS. 


99 


HOMILY   X. 


Ephesians  iv.  4. 


"There  is  one  body,  and  one  Spirit,  even  as  ye  are  called 
in  one  hope  of  your  calling." 

When  the  blessed  Paul  exhorts  us  to  anything 
of  special  importance,  so  truly  wise  and  spiritual 
as  he  is,  he  grounds  his  exhortation  upon  things 
in  Heaven :  this  itself  being  a  lesson  he  had 
learned  from  the  Lord.  Thus  he  saith  also  else- 
where, "  Walk  in  love,  even  as  Christ  also  hath 
loved  us."  (ch.  v.  2.)  And  again,  "Have  this 
mind  in  you,  which  was  also  in  Christ  Jesus,  who 
being  in  the  form  of  God,  counted  it  not  a  prize 
to  be  on  an  equality  with  God."  (Phil.  ii.  5,6.) 
This  is  what  he  is  doing  here  also,  for  whenever 
the  examples  he  is  setting  before  us  are  great, 
he  is  intense  in  his  zeal  and  feeling.  What  then 
does  he  say,  now  he  is  inciting  us  to  unity? 
"There  is  one  body,  and  one  Spirit,  even  as  ye 
are  called  in  one  hope  of  your  calling :  " 

Ver.  5.    "  One  Lord,  one  faith,  one  baptism." 

Now  what  is  this  one  body?  The  faithful 
throughout  the  whple  world,  both  which  are, 
and  which  have  been,  and  which  shall  be.  And 
again,  they  that  before  Christ's  coming  pleased 
God,  are  "  one  body."  How  so  ?  Because  they 
also  knew  Christ.  Whence  does  this  appear? 
"Your  father  Abraham,"  saith  He,  "rejoiced 
to  see  My  day,  and  he  saw  it,  and  was  glad." 
(John  viii.  56.)  And  again,  "If  ye  had  be- 
lieved Moses,"  He  saith,  "  ye  would  have  be- 
lieved Me,  for  he  wrote  of  Me."  (John  v.  46.) 
And  the  prophets  too  would  not  have  written 
of  One,  of  whom  they  knew  not  what  they 
said;  whereas  they  both  knew  Him,  and  wor- 
shiped Him.  Thus  then  were  they  also  "  one 
body." 

The  body  is  not  disjoined  from  the  spirit,  for 
then  would  it  not  be  a  body.  Thus  it  is  cus- 
tomary also  with  us,  touching  things  which  are 
united,  and  which  have  any  great  consistency  or 
coherence,  to  say,  they  are  one  body.  And  thus 
again,  touching  union,  we  take  that  to  be  a  body 
which  is  under  one  head.  If  there  be  one  head, 
then  is  there  one  body.  The  body  is  composed 
of  members  both  honorable  and  dishonorable. 
Only  the  greater  is  not  to  rise  up  even  against 
the  meanest,  nor  this  latter  to  envy  the  other. 
They  do  not  all  indeed  contribute  the  same 
share,  but  severally  according  to  the  proportion 
of  need.  And  forasmuch  as  all  are  formed  for 
necessary  and  for  different  purposes,  all  are  of 
equal  honor.  Some  indeed  there  are,  which  are 
more  especially  principal  members,  others  less 


so :  for  example,  the  head  is  more  a  principal 
member  than  all  the  rest  of  the  body,  as  con- 
taining within  itself  all  the  senses,  and  the  gov- 
erning principle  of  the  soul.  And  to  live  without 
the  head  is  impossible ;  whereas  many  persons 
have  lived  for  a  long  time  with  their  feet  cut  off. 
So  that  it  is  better  than  they,  not  only  by  its 
position,  but  also  by  its  very  vital  energy  and  its 
function. 

Now  why  am  I  saying  this  ?  There  are  great 
numbers  in  the  Church;  there  are  those  who, 
like  the  head,  are  raised  up  to  a  height;  who, 
like  the  eyes  that  are  in  the  head,  survey  heav- 
enly things,  who  stand  far  aloof  from  the  earth, 
and  have  nothing  in  common  with  it,  whilst 
others  occupy  the  rank  of  feet,  and  tread  upon 
the  earth ;  of  healthy  feet  indeed,  for  to  tread 
upon  the  earth  is  no  crime  in  feet,  but  to  run  to 
evil.  "Their  feet,"  saith  the  Prophet,  "run  to 
evil."  (Isa.  lix.  7.)  Neither  then  let  these,  the 
head,  saith  he,  be  high-minded  against  the  feet, 
nor  the  feet  look  with  evil  eye  at  them.  Fpr 
thus  the  peculiar  beauty  of  each  is  destroyed, 
and  the  perfectness  of  its  function  impeded. 
And  naturally  enough ;  inasmuch  as  he  who  lays 
snares  for  his  neighbor  will  be  laying  snares  first 
of  all  for  himself.  And  should  the  feet  therefore 
not  choose  to  convey  the  head  anywhere  upon 
its  necessary  journey,  they  will  at  the  same  time 
be  injuring  themselves  by  their  inactivity  and 
sloth.  Or  again,  should  the  head  not  choose  to 
take  any  care  of  the  feet,  itself  will  be  the  first 
to  sustain  the  damage.  However,  those  mem- 
bers do  not  rise  up  one  against  the  other ;  it  is 
not  likely,  for  it  has  been  so  ordered  by  nature 
that  they  should  not.  But  with  man,  how  is  it 
possible  for  him  not  to  rise  up  against  man? 
No  one,  we  know,  ever  rises  up  against  Angels ; 
since  neither  do  they  rise  against  the  Archangels, 
Nor,  on  the  other  hand,  can  the  irrational  crea- 
tures proudly  exalt  themselves  over  us  ;  but  where 
the  nature  is  equal  in  dignity,  and  the  gift  one, 
and  where  one  has  no  more  than  another,  how 
shall  this  be  prevented? 

And  yet  surely  these  are  the  very  reasons  why 
thou  oughtest  not  to  rise  up  against  thy  neigh- 
bors. For  if  all  things  are  common,  and  one 
has  nothing  more  than  another,  whence  this  mad 
folly?  We  partake  of  the  same  nature,  partake 
alike  of  soul  and  body,  we  breathe  the  same  air, 
we  use  the  same  food.  Whence  this  rebellious 
rising  of  one  against  another?  And  yet  truly 
the  being  able  by  one's  virtue  to  overcome  the 


IOO 


WORKS   OF   ST.    CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  X. 


incorporeal  powers,  that  were  enough  to  lead  to 
arrogance ;  or  rather  arrogance  it  would  not  be, 
for  with  good  reason  am  I  high-minded,  and 
exceedingly  high-minded  against  the  evil  spirit. 
And  behold  even  Paul,  how  high-minded  he  was 
against  that  evil  spirit.  For  when  the  evil  spirit 
was  speaking  great  and  marvelous  things  con- 
cerning him,  he  made  him  hold  his  peace,  and 
endured  him  not  even  in  his  flattery.  For  when 
that  damsel,  "  who  had  the  spirit  of  divination," 
cried,  saying,  "These  men  are  the  servants  of 
the  most  high  God,  which  show  unto  us  the  way 
of  salvation"  (Acts  xvi.  16,  17),  he  rebuked 
him  severely,  and  silenced  his  forward  tongue. 
And  again  he  elsewhere  writes,  and  says,  "  God 
shall  bruise  Satan  under  your  feet  shortly."  {Rom. 
xvi.  20.)  Will  the  difference  of  nature  have  any 
effect  ?  Perceivest  thou  not  that  the  difference  be- 
tween natures  has  no  effect  whatever,  but  only  the 
difference  of  purpose  ?  Because  of  their  principle 
therefore  they  are  far  worse  than  all.  Well,  a 
man  may  say,  but  I  am  not  rising  up  against 
an  Angel,  because  there  is  so  vast  a  distance 
between  my  nature  and  his.  And  yet  surely 
thou  oughtest  no  more  to  rise  up  against  a  man 
than  against  an  Angel,  for  the  Angel  indeed 
differs  from  thee  in  nature,  a  matter  which  can 
be  neither  an  honor  to  him,  nor  a  disgrace  to 
th^e :  whereas  man  differs  from  man  not  at  all 
in  nature,  but  in  principle ;  and  there  is  such 
a  thing  as  an  Angel  too  even  amongst  men. 
So  that  if  thou  rise  not  up  against  Angels,  much 
more  shouldest  thou  not  against  men,  against 
those  who  have  become  angels  in  this  our 
nature ;  for  should  any  one  among  men  become 
as  virtuous  as  an  Angel,  that  man  is  in  a  far 
higher  degree  superior  to  thee,  than  an  Angel 
is.  And  why  so  ?  Because  what  the  one  pos- 
sesses by  nature,  the  other  has  achieved  of  his 
own  purpose.  And  again,  because  the  Angel 
has  his  home  far  from  thee  in  distance  also,  and 
dwelleth  in  Heaven ;  whereas  this  man  is  living 
with  thee,  and  giving  an  impulse  to  thy  em- 
ulation. And  indeed  he  lives  farther  apart 
from  thee  than  the  Angel.  For  "our  citi- 
zenship," saith  the  Apostle,  "is  in  Heaven." 
(Phil.  iii.  20.)  And  to  show  thee  that  this 
man  hath  his  home  still  farther  distant,  hear 
where  his  Head  is  seated ;  upon  the  throne, 
saith  he,  the  royal  throne  !  And  the  farther 
distant  that  throne  is  from  us,  the  farther  is 
he  also. 

Well,  but  I  see  him,  thou  wilt  say,  in  the 
enjoyment  of  honor,  and  I  am  led  to  jealousy. 
Why,  this  is  the  very  thing  which  has  turned  all 
things  upside  down,  which  has  filled  not  the 
world  only,  but  the  Church  also,  with  countless 
troubles.  And  just  as  fierce  blasts  setting  in 
across  a  calm  harbor,  render  it  more  dangerous 
than  any  rock,  or  than  any  strait  whatever ;  so 


the  lust  of  glory  entering  in,  overturns  and  con- 
founds everything. 

Ye  have  oftentimes  been  present  at  the  burn- 
ing of  large  houses.  Ye  have  seen  how  the 
smoke  keeps  rising  up  to  Heaven;  and  if  no 
one  comes  near  to  put  a  stop  to  the  mischief, 
but  every  one  keeps  looking  to  himself,  the 
flame  spreads  freelji  on,  and  devours  everything. 
And  oftentimes  the  whole  city  will  stand  around  ; 
they  will  stand  round  indeed  as  spectators  of 
the  evil,  not  to  aid  nor  assist.  And  there  you 
may  see  them  one  and  all  standing  round,  and 
doing  nothing  but  each  individual  stretching  out 
his  hand,  and  pointing  out  to  some  one  who 
may  be  just  come  to  the  spot,  either  a  flaming 
brand  that  moment  flying  through  a  window,  or 
beams  hurled  down,  or  the  whole  circuit  of  the 
walls  forced  out,  and  tumbling  violently  to  the 
ground.  Many  too  there  are  of  the  more  daring 
and  venturesome,  who  will  have  the  hardihood 
even  to  come  close  to  the  very  buildings  them- 
selves whilst  they  are  burning,  not  in  order  to 
stretch  forth  a  hand  towards  them,  and  to  put  a 
stop  to  the  mischief,  but  that  they  may  the  more 
fully  enjoy  the  sight,  being  able  from  the  nearer 
place  to  observe  closely  all  that  which  often 
escapes  those  at  a  distance.  Then  if  the  house 
happen  to  be  large  and  magnificent,  it  appears 
to  them  a  pitiable  spectacle,  and  deserving  of 
many  tears.  And  truly  there  is  a  pitiable  spec- 
tacle for  us  to  behold;  capitals  of  columns 
crumbled  to  dust,  and  many  columns  them- 
selves shattered  to  pieces,  some  consumed  by 
the  fire,  others  thrown  down  often  by  the  very 
hands  which  erected  them,  that  they  may  not 
add  fuel  to  the  flame.  Statues  again,  which 
stood  with  so  much  gracefulness,  with  the  ceil- 
ing resting  on  them,  these  you  may  see  all  ex- 
posed, with  the  roof  torn  off,  and  themselves 
standing  hideously  disfigured  in  the  open  air. 
And  why  should  one  go  on  to  describe  the 
wealth  stored  up  within?  the  tissues  of  gold, 
and  the  vessels  of  silver?  And  where  the 
lord  of  the  house  and  his  consort  scarcely  en- 
tered, where  was  the  treasurehouse  of  tissues  and 
perfumes,  and  the  caskets  of  the  costly  jewels, 
—  all  has  become  one  blazing  fire,  and  within 
now,  are  bath-men  and  ^street-cleaners,  and 
runaway  slaves,  and  everybody ;  and  everything 
within  is  one  mass  of  fire  and  water,  of  mud, 
and  dust,  and  half-burnt  beams  ! 

Now  why  have  I  drawn  out  so  full  a  picture 
as  this  ?  Not  simply  because  I  wish  to  repre- 
sent to  you  the  conflagration  of  a  house,  (for 
what  concern  is  that  of  mine?)  but  because  I 
wish  to  set  before  your  eyes,  as  vividly  as  I  can, 
the  calamities  of  the  Church.  For  like  a  con- 
flagration indeed,  or  like  a  thunderbolt  hurled 
from  on  high,  have  they  lighted  upon  the  roof 
of  the  Church,  and  yet  they  rouse  up  no  one ; 


Homily  X.] 


HOMILIES   ON   EPHESIANS. 


IOI 


but  whilst  our  Father's  house  is  burning,  we  are 
sleeping,  as  it  were,  a  deep  and  stupid  sleep. 
And  yet  who  is  there  whom  this  fire  does  not 
touch?  Which  of  the  statues  that  stand  in  the 
Church?  for  the  Church  is  nothing  else  than 
a  house  built  of  the  souls  of  us  men.  Now 
this  house  is  not  of  equal  honor  throughout, 
but  of  the  stones  which  contribute  to  it,  some 
are  bright  and  shining,  whilst  others  are  smaller 
and  more  dull  than  they,  and  yet  superior 
again  to  others.1  There  we  may  see  many 
who  are  in  the  place  of  gold  also,  the  gold 
which  adorns  the  ceiling.  Others  again  we  may 
see,  who  give  the  beauty  and  gracefulness  pro- 
duced by  statues.  Many8  we  may  see,  standing 
like  pillars.  For  he  is  accustomed  to  call  men  also 
"pillars"  (Gal.  ii.  9),  not  only  on  account  of  their 
strength  but  also  on  account  of  their  beauty,  add- 
ing as  they  do,  much  grace,  and  having  their 
heads  overlaid  with  gold.  We  may  see  a  multi- 
tude, forming  generally  the  wide  middle  space  and 
the  whole  extent  of  the  circumference ;  for  the 
body  at  large  occupies  the  place  of  those  stones 
of  which  the  outer  walls  are  built.  Or  rather  we 
must  go  on  to  a  more  splendid  picture  yet. 
This  Church,  of  which  I  speak,  is  not  built  of 
these  stones,  such  as  we  see  around  us,  but  of 
gold  and  silver,  and  of  precious  stones,  and 
there  is  abundance  of  gold  dispersed  everywhere 
throughout  it  But,  oh  the  bitter  tears  this  calls 
forth !  For  all  these  things  hath  the  lawless  rule 
of  vainglory  consumed ;  that  all-devouring 
flame,  which  no  one  has  yet  got  under.  And 
we  stand  gazing  in  amazement  at  the  flames, 
but  no  longer  able  to  quench  the  evil :  or  if 
we  do  quench  it  for  a  short  time,  yet  after 
two  or  three  days  as  a  spark  blown  up  from  a 
heap  of  ashes  overturns  all,  and  consumes  no 
less  than  it  did  before,  so  it  is  here  also  :  for  this 
is  just  what  is  wont  to  happen  in  such  a  con- 
flagration. And  as  to  the  cause,  it  has  devoured 
the  supports  of  the  very  pillars  of  the  Church  ; 
those  of  us  who  supported  the  roof,  and  who 
formerly  held  the  whole  building  together  it  has 
enveloped  in  the  flame.  Hence  too  was  a  ready 
communication  to  the  iest  of  the  outer  walls : 
for  so  also  in  the  case  of  buildings,  when  the 
fire  lays  hold  of  the  timbers,  it  is  better  armed 
for  its  attack  upon  the  stones  ;  but  when  it  has 
brought  down  the  pillars  and  leveled  them  with 
the  ground,  nothing  more  is  wanted  to  consume 
all  the  rest  in  the  flames.  For  when  the  props 
and  supports  of  the  upper  parts  fall  down,  those 

1  [Field's  text  has  here  iroAA^j  6i  tKtivuiv  /SeAn'ovs  instead  of 
voU?  hi  iXXmty  /3eArt'ovf ,  which  is  clearly  better  than  Field's,  be- 


Kg  sentence;  but  it  is  better  where  it  stands  here,  to  complete  the 
KBience  and  to  make  it  correspond  with  the  two  preceding  sen- 
^    —G.A.] 


parts  also  themselves  will  speedily  enough  follow 
them.  Thus  is  it  also  at  this  moment  with  the 
Church :  the  fire  has  laid  hold  on  every  part. 
We  seek  the  honors  that  come  from  man,  we 
burn  for  glory,  and  we  hearken  not  to  Job  when 
he  saith, 

"If  like  Adam  (or  after  the  manner  of  men)  I  covered 
my  transgressions 
By  hiding  mine  iniquity  in  my  bosom, 
Because  I  feared  the  great  multitude."  * 

Behold  ye  a  virtuous  spirit  ?  I  was  not  ashamed, 
he  saith,  to  own  before  the  whole  multitude  my 
involuntary  sins.  And  if  he  was  not  ashamed  to 
confess,  much  more  were  it  our  duty  to  do  so. 
For  saith  the  prophet,  "  Set  thou  forth  thy  cause, 
that  thou  mayest  be  justified."  (Isa.  xliii.  26.) 
Great  is  the  violence  of  this  evil,  everything  is 
overturned  by  it  and  annihilated.  We  have 
forsaken  the  Lord,  and  are  become  slaves  of 
honor.  We  are  no  longer  able  to  rebuke  those 
who  are  under  our  rule,  because  we  ourselves 
also  are  possessed  with  the  same  fever  as  they. 
We  who  are  appointed  by  God  to  heal  others, 
need  the  physician  ourselves.  What  further 
hope  of  recovery  is  there  left,  when  even  the 
very  physicians  themselves  need  the  healing 
hand  of  others  ? 

I  have  not  said  these  things  without  an  object, 
nor  am  I  making  lamentations  to  no  purpose, 
but  with  the  view  that  one  and  all,  with  our 
women  and  children,  having  sprinkled  ourselves 
with  ashes,  and  girded  ourselves  about  with 
sackcloth,  may  keep  a  long  fast,  may  beseech 
God  Himself  to  stretch  forth  His  hand  to  us, 
and  to  stay  the  peril.  For  need  is  there  indeed 
of  His  hand,  that  mighty,  that  marvelous  hand. 
Greater  things  are  required  of  us  than  of  the 
Ninevites.  "  Yet  three  days,"  said  the  prophet, 
"  and  Nineveh  shall  be  overthrown." 4  (Jonah 
iii.  4.)  A  fearful  message,  and  burdened  with 
tremendous  threat.  And  how  should  it  be  other- 
wise ?  to  expect  that  within  three  days,  the  city 
should  become  their  tomb,  and  that  all  should 
perish  in  one  common  judgment.  For  if,  when 
it  happens  that  two  children  die  at  the  same 
time  in  one  house,  the  hardship  becomes  intoler- 
able, and  if  to  Job  this  of  all  things  seemed  the 
most  intolerable,  that  the  roof  fell  in  upon  all 
his  children,  and  they  were  thus  killed ;  what 
must  it  be  to  behold  not  one  house,  nor  two 
children,  but  a  nation  of  a  hundred  and  twenty 
thousand  buried  beneath  the  ruins  ! 


•  Job  xxxi.  33,  34.  The  verses  in  the  Sept.  stand  thus:  E*  W 
Ktti  afiaprun/  cucovauii?  e«cpv«^a  ttjv  afiapriav  pov.  Ov  yap  £tcrpa«-f)v 
iroAvoxAiav  »A»j0ov«,  tow  j*tj  c£ayopcv<r<u  ivunrtov  avrutv  [but  Chry- 
sostom  quotes  only  these  words :  «i  «ai  afxapriov  axouo-twc  SieTpairij* 
roAvoxAtav.  The  Hebrew  is  quite  different,  as  shown  in  rendering 
of  Rev.  Ver.  (above) . —  G.  A. J. 

«  [The  Septuagint  has  yet  three  days,  &c,  fri  rp*U  qpcpai 
*.t.A.  So  Chrysostom  quotes  it.  The  Hebrew  text  and  the  Rev. 
Ver.,  following  it,  hayejvrty  days.  —  G.  A.] 


102 


WORKS   OF   ST.   CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  XL 


Ye  know  how  terrible  a  disaster  is  this,  for 
lately  has  this  very  warning  happened  to  us, 
not  that  any  prophet  uttered  a  voice,  for  we 
are  not  worthy  to  hear  such  a  voice,  but  the 
warning  crying  aloud  from  on  high  more  dis- 
tinctly than  any  trumpet.1  However,  as  I  was 
saying,  "  Yet  three  days,"  said  the  prophet,  "and 
Nineveh  shall  be  overthrown."  A  terrible  warn- 
ing indeed,  but  now  we  have  nothing  even  like 
that ;  no,  there  are  no  longer  "  three  days," 2  nor 
is  there  a  Nineveh  to  be  overthrown,  but  many 
days  are  already  past  since  the  Church  through- 
out all  the  world  has  been  overthrown,  and 
leveled  with  the  ground,  and  all  alike  are  over- 
whelmed in  the  evil;  nay  more,  of  those  that 
are  in  high  places  the  stress  is  so  much  the 
greater.  Wonder  not  therefore  if  I  should  ex- 
hort you  to  do  greater  things  than  the  Ninevites ; 
and  why?  nay  more,  I  do  not  now  proclaim  a 
fast  only,  but  I  suggest  to  you  the  remedy  which 
raised  up  that  city  also  when  falling.  And  what 
was  that?    "God  saw  their  works,"  saith  the 


prophet,  "  that  they  turned  from  their  evil  way, 
and  God  repented  of  the  evil  which  He  said  He 
would  do  unto  them."  (Jonah  ill.  10.)  This 
let  us  do,  both  we  and  you.  Let  us  renounce 
the  passion  for  riches,  the  lust  for  glory,  beseech- 
ing God  to  stretch  forth  His  hand,  and  to  raise 
up  our  fallen  members.  And  well  may  we,  for 
our  fear  is  not  for  the  same  objects  as  theirs ; 
for  then  indeed  it  was  only  stones  and  timbers 
that  were  to  fall,  and  bodies  that  were  to  perish ; 
but  now  it  is  none  of  these ;  no,  but  souls  are 
about  to  be  delivered  over  to  hell  fire.  Let  us 
implore,  let  us  confess  unto  Him,  let  us  give 
thanks  unto  Him  for  what  is  past,  let  us  entreat 
Him  for  what  is  to  come,  that  we  may  be  counted 
worthy  to  be  delivered  from  this  fierce  and  most 
terrible  monster,  and  to  lift  up  our  thanksgivings 
to  the  loving  God  and  Father  with  whom,  to  the 
Son,  together  with  the  Holy  Ghost,  be  glory, 
might,  and  honor,  now,  henceforth,  and  for  ever 
and  ever.     Amen. 


HOMILY   XL 

Ephesians  iv.  4-7. 


"There  is  one  body,  and  one  Spirit,  even  as  also  ye 
were  called  in  one  hope  of  your  calling;  one  Lord, 
one  faith,  one  baptism,  one  God  and  Father  of  all, 
who  is  over  all,  and  through  all,  and  in  all.  But 
unto  each  one  of  us  was  the  grace  given  according 
to  the  measure  of  the  gift  of  Christ." 

The  love  Paul  requires  of  us  is  no  common 
love,  but  that  which  cements  us  together,  and 
makes  us  cleave  inseparably  to  one  another,  and 
effects  as  great  and  as  perfect  a  union  as  though 
it  were  between  limb  and  limb.  For  this  is 
that  love  which  produces  great  and  glorious 
fruits.  Hence  he  saith,  there  is  "  one  body  "  ; 
one,  both  by  sympathy,  and  by  not  opposing 
the  good  of  others,  and  by  sharing  their  joy, 
having  expressed  all  at  once  by  this  figure.  He 
then  beautifully  adds,  "and  one  Spirit,"  showing8 
that  from  the  one  body  there  will  be  one  Spirit : 
or,  that  it  is  possible  that  there  may  be  indeed 


1  Antioch  was  exposed  to  earthquakes.  One  happened  a.d.  395, 
which  might  be  about  the  date  of  these  Homilies.  In  a.d.  458  it  was 
almost  overthrown  from  this  cause. 

5  [See  note  on  preceding  page.  —  G.  A.] 

*  1"  The  «r  viiia  means  the  totality  of  Christians  as  the  corpus 
{Ckristt)  mysticum;  comp.  Eph.  ii.  16;  Ro.  xii.  5:  1  Cor.  x.  17. 
The  ir  vrrvMa  is  the  Holy  Spirit,  the  spirit  of  the  corf  us  mysti- 
cum; comp.  Eph.  ii.  18:  1  Cor.  xii.  13.  The  explanation,  'one 
body  and  one  soul/  is  excluded,  as  at  variance  with  the  context  by 
the  specifically  Christian  character  of  the  other  elements,  and  ren- 
dered^ impossible  by  the  correct  supplying  of  c<m  (and  not '  ye  ought 
t'»be,\*  —  Meyer. —  G.  A.] 


one  body,  and  yet  not  one  Spirit;  as,  for  in- 
stance, if  any  member  of  it  should  be  a  friend 
of  heretics :  or  else  he  is,  by  this  expression, 
shaming  them  into  unanimity,  saying,  as  it  were, 
"Ye  who  have  received  one  Spirit,  and  have 
been  made  to  drink  at  one  fountain,  ought  not 
to  be  divided  in  mind  " ;  or  else  by  spirit  here  he 
means  their  zeal.  Then  he  adds,  "  Even  as  ye 
were  called  in  one  hope  of  your  calling,"  that  is, 
God  hath  called  you  all  on  the  same  terms.  He 
hath  bestowed  nothing  upon  one  more  than  upon 
another.  To  all  He  hath  freely  given  immor- 
tality, to  all  eternal  life,  to  all  immortal  glory,  to 
all  brotherhood,  to  all  inheritance.  He  is  the 
common  Head  of  all ;  "  He  hath  raised  all "  up, 
"and  made  them  sit  with  Him."8  (Eph.  ii.  6.) 
Ye  then  who  in  the  spiritual  world  have  so  great 
equality  of  privileges,  whence  is  it  that  ye  are 
high-minded?  Is  it  that  one  is  wealthy  and 
another  strong?  How  ridiculous  must  this  be? 
For  tell  me,  if  the  emperor  some  day  were  to 
take  ten  persons,  and  to  array  them  all  in  purple, 
and  seat  them  on  the  royal  throne,  and  to  be- 
stow upon  all  the  same  honor,  would  any  one  of 
these,  think  ye,  venture  to  reproach  another,  as 
being  more  wealthy  or  more  illustrious  than  he  ? 
Surely  never.  And  I  have  not  yet  said  all ;  for 
the  difference  is  not  so  great  in  heaven  as  here 


Homily  XI.] 


HOMILIES   ON    EPHESIANS. 


103 


below  we  differ.  There  is  "  one  Lord,  one  faith, 
one  baptism."  l  Behold  "  the  hope  of  your  call- 
ing. One  God  and  Father  of  all,  who  is  over  all, 
and  through  all,  and  in  all."  For  can  it  be,  that 
thou  art  called  by  the  name  of  a  greater  God, 
another,  of  a  lesser  God  ?  That  thou  art  saved 
by  faith,  and  another  by  works  ?  That  thou  hast 
received  remission  in  baptism,  whilst  another  has 
not?  "There  is  one  God  and  Father  of  all,  who 
is  over  all,  and  through  all,  and  in  all."  "Who  is 
over  all,"  that  is,  the  Lord  and  above  all ;  and 
"through  all,"  that  is,  providing  for,  ordering 
all;  and  "in  you  all,"  that  is,  who  dwelleth  in 
you  alL  Now  this  they  own  to  be  an  attribute  of 
the  Son ;  so  that  were  it  an  argument  of  infe- 
riority, it  never  would  have  been  said  of  the 
Father. 

"But*  unto  each  one  of  us  was  the  grace 
given." 

What  then  ?  he  saith,  whence  are  those  diverse 
spiritual  gifts  ?  For  this  subject  was  continually 
carrying  away  both  the  Ephesians  themselves, 
and  the  Corinthians,  and  many  others,  some  into 
vain  arrogance,  and  others  into  despondency  or 
envy.  Hence  he  everywhere  takes  along  with 
him  this  illustration  of  the  body.  Hence  it  is 
that  now  also  he  has  proposed  it,  inasmuch  as 
he  was  about  to  make  mention  of  diverse  gifts. 
He  enters  indeed  into  the  subject  more  fully  in 
the  Epistle  to  the  Corinthians,  because  it  was 
among  them  that  this  malady  most  especially 
reigned:  here  however  he  has  only  alluded  to 
it  And  mark  what  he  says :  he  does  not  say, 
"according  to  the  faith  of  each,"  lest  he  should 
throw  those  who  have  no  large  attainments  into 
despondency.  But  what  saith  he  ?  "  According 
to  the  measure  of  the  gift  of  Christ."  The  chief 
and  principal  points  of  all,  he  saith,  —  Baptism, 
the  being  saved  by  faith,  the  having  God  for  our 
Father,  our  all  partaking  of  the  same  Spirit,  — 
these  are  common  to  all.  If  then  this  or  that 
man  possesses  any  superiority  in  any  spiritual 
gift,  grieve  not  at  it ;  since  his  labor  also  is 
greater.  He  that  had  received  the  five  talents, 
had  five  required  of  him ;  whilst  he  that  had 
received  the  two,  brought  only  two,  and  yet 
received  no  less  a  reward  than  the  other.  And 
therefore  the  Apostle  here  also  encourages  the 
hearer  on  the  same  ground,  showing  that  gifts 
are  bestowed  not  for  the  honor  of  one  above 

1  [Note  the  triad  of  trinities:  — 

!one  body, 
one  spirit, 
one  hope. 
I  one  Lord, 
one  faith, 
one  baptism. 
iover  all. 
through  all. 
in  all. 
—  Meyer,  substantially.  —  G.  A.] 

.    *  ["Bat  (ft)  forms  the  transition  from  the  summary  'all,'  '  all,' 
all  to 'each  iiidividiial'ajiiong  the  Christians.''— Meyer.— G.A.I 


another,  but  for  the  work  of  the  church,  even  as 
he  says  further  on  : 

"  For  the  perfecting  of  the  saints  unto  the 
work  of  ministering  unto  the  building  up  of  the 
body  of  Christ." 

Hence  it  is  that  even  he  himself  saith,  "  Woe 
is  unto  me,  if  I  preach  not  the  Gospel."  (1  Cor. 
ix.  16.)  For  example  :  he  received  the  grace  of 
Apostleship,  but  for  this  very  reason,  "  woe  unto 
him,"  because  he  received  it :  whereas  thou  art 
free  from  the  danger. 

"  According  to  the  measure." 

What  is  meant  by,  "  according  to  the 
measure  "  ?  It  means,  "  not  according  to  our 
merit,"  for  then  would  no  one  have  received 
what  he  has  received :  but  of  the  free  gift  we 
have  all  received.  And  why  then  one  more,  and 
another  less  ?  There  is  nothing  to  cause  this,  he 
would  say,  but  the  matter  itself  is  indifferent; 
for  every  one  contributes  towards  "  the  building." 
And  by  this  too  he  shows,  that  it  is  not  of  his 
own  intrinsic  merit  that  one  has  received  more 
and  another  less,  but  that  it  is  for  the  sake  of 
others,  as  God  Himself  hath  measured  it ;  since 
he  saith  also  elsewhere,  "  But  now  hath  God  set 
the  members  each  one  of  them  in  the  body,  even 
as  it  pleased  Him."  (1  Cor.  xii.  18.)  And  he 
mentions  not  the  reason,  lest  he  should  deject 
or  dispirit  the  hearers. 

Ver.  8.  "Wherefore  he  saith,  When  He  as- 
cended on  high,  He  led  captivity  captive,  and 
gave  gifts  unto  men." 

As  though  he  had  said,  Why  art  thou  high- 
minded?  The  whole  is  of  God.  The  Prophet 
saith  in  the  Psalm,  "Thou  hast  received  gifts 
among  men  "  (Ps.  lxviii.  18),  whereas  the  Apostle 
saith,  "  He  gave  gifts  unto  men."  The  one  is 
the  same  as  the  other.8 

Ver.  9,  10.  "  Now  this,  He  ascended,  what  is 
it,  but  that  He  also  descended  into  the  lower 
parts  of  the  earth?  He  that  descended,  is  the 
same  also  that  ascended  far  above  all  the 
Heavens,  that  He  might  fill  all  things." 

When  thou  hearest  these  words,  think  not  of 
a  mere  removal  from  one  place  to  another ;  for 
what  Paul  establishes  in  the  Epistle  to  the  Phi- 
lippians  (Phil.  ii.  5-8),  that  very  argument4  is 
he  also  insisting  upon  here.  In  the  same  way  as 
there,  when  exhorting  them  concerning  lowli- 
ness, he  brings   forward  Christ  as  an  example, 

*  ["  He  quotes  Ps.  lxviii.  18,  with  the  freedom  of  a  Messianic  in- 
terpretation of  the  words,  and  his  exposition  of  the  Hebrew  words 

yielded  essentially  the  sense  expressed  by  him.    So  he  took  FTlph 

in  the  sense:  '  Thou  didst  take  away  gifts  to  distribute  them  among 
men/  and  then  translated  this  in  an  explanatory  way,  eoWc,  &c."  — 
Meyer.  —  G.  A.] 

*  [This  view  of  Chrysostom  is  quite  at  variance  with  the  context. 
Ellicott  says:  To  evince  still  more  clearly  the  correctness  of  the 
Messianic  application  of  the  words  just  cited,  St.  Paul  urges  the  an- 
tithesis implied  by  avifiri,  namely,  KaTcfa,  a  predication  applicable  to 
Christ  only,  the  tacit  assumption  being  that  He  who  is  the  subject  of 
the  citation  is  one  whose  seat  was  heaven.  Compare  John  iii.  13.  — 
G.A.J 


104 


WORKS   OF   ST.   CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  XI. 


so  does  he  here  also,  saying,  "He  descended 
into  the  lower  parts  of  the  earth."  For  were 
not  this  so,  this  expression  which  he  uses,  "  He 
became  obedient  even  unto  death"  (Phil.  ii.  8, 
9),  were  superfluous  ;  whereas  from  His  ascend- 
ing, he  implies  His  descent,  and  by  "  the  lower 
parts  of  the  earth,"  he  means  "  death,"  accord- 
ing to  the  notions  of  men ;  as  Jacob  also  said, 
"  Then  shall  ye  bring  down  my  gray  hairs  with 
sorrow  to  the  grave."  (Gen.  xxxii.  48.)  And 
again  as  it  is  in  the  Psalm,  "  Lest  I  become  like 
them  that  go  down  into  the  pit"  (Ps.  cxliii.  7), 
that  is  like  the  dead.  Why  does  he  descant 
upon  this  region  here?  And  of  what  captivity 
does  he  speak  ?  Of  that  of  the  devil ;  for  He 
took  the  tyrant  captive,  the  devil,  I  mean,  and 
death,  and  the  curse,  and  sin.  Behold  His 
spoils  and  His  trophies. 

"  Now  this,  He  ascended,  what  is  it  but  that 
He  also  descended?" 

This  strikes  at  Paul  of  Samosata  and  his 
school.1 

"  He  that  descended,  is  the  same  also  that 
ascended  far  above  all  the  Heavens,  that  He 
might  fill  all  things." 

He  descended,  saith  he,  into  the  lower  parts 
of  the  earth,  beyond  which  there  are  none  other  : 
and  He  ascended  up  far  above  all  things,  to 
that  place,  beyond  which  there  is  none  other. 
This  is  to  show  His  divine  energy,  and  supreme 
dominion.  For  indeed  even  of  old  had  all 
things  been  filled. 

Ver.  11,  12.  "And  He  gave  some  to  be 
apostles ;  and  some,  prophets  ;  and  some,  evan- 
gelists ;  and  some,  pastors  and  teachers ;  for  the 
perfecting  of  the  saints,  unto  the  work  of  minis- 
tering, unto  the  building  up  of  the  body  of 
Christ." 

What  he  said  elsewhere,  "  Wherefore  also  God 
hath  highly  exalted  Him  "  (Phil.  ii.  9),  that 
saith  he  also  here.  "He  that  descended,  is  the 
same  also  that  ascended."  It  did  Him  no  in- 
jury that  He  came  down  into  the  lower  parts  of 
the  earth,  nor  was  it  any  hindrance  to  His  be- 
coming far  higher  than  the  Heavens.  So  that 
the  more  a  man  is  humbled,  so  much  the  more 
is  he  exalted.  For  as  in  the  case  of  water,  the 
more  a  man  presses  it  downwards,  the  more  he 
forces  it  up ;  and  the  further  a  man  retires  to 
hurl  a  javelin,  the  surer  his  aim  ;  so  is  it  also  with 
humility.  However,  when  we  speak  .of  ascents 
with  reference  to  God,  we  must  needs  conceive 
a  descent  first ;  but  when  with  reference  to  man, 
not  at  all  so.  Then  he  goes  on  to  show  further 
His  providential  care,  and  His  wisdom,  for  He 

1  Paul  was  Bishop  of  Antioch  a.d.  260-269,  when  he  was  deposed 
for  heresy.  Very  different  accounts  are  given  of  his  particular  doc- 
trines: St.  Athanasius  may  be  securely  followed,  however,  who  says 
that  he  denied  the  doctrine  of  our  Ix>rd's  preexistence,  asserted  that 
He  was  a  mere  man,  and  that  the  Word  of  God  was  in  Him.  vid. 
Orat.  i.  25,  38;  ii.  13;  iii.  51.  De  decret.  24,  &c,  &c.  [See  SchafTs 
History  of  Christian  CA.,  Vol.  II.,  pp.  575,  576.  —  G.  A.] 


who  hath  wrought  such  things  as  these,  who  had 
such  might,  and  who  refused  not  to  go  down 
even  to  those  lower  parts  for  our  sakes,  never 
would  He  have  made  these  distributions  of 
spiritual  gifts  without  a  purpose.  Now  else- 
where he  tells  us  that  this  was  the  work  of  the 
Spirit,  in  the  words,  "  In  the  which  the  Holy 
Ghost  hath  made  you  bishops  to  feed  the  Church 
of  God."2  And  here  he  saith  that  it  is  the  Son  ; 
and  elsewhere  that  it  is  God.  "  And  He  gave  to 
the  Church  some  apostles,  and  some  prophets." 
But  in  the  Epistle  to  the  Corinthians,  he  saith, 
"  I  planted,  Apollos  watered  ;  but  God  gave  the 
increase."  And  again,  "  Now  he  that  planteth 
and  he  that  watereth  are  one :  but  each  shall 
receive  his  own  reward  according  to  his  own 
labor."  (1  Cor.  iii.  6-8.)  So  is  it  also  here; 
for  what  if  thou  bring  in  but  little  ?  Thou  hast 
received  so  much.  First,  he  says,  "  apostles  "  ;* 
for  these  had  all  gifts  ;  secondarily,  "  prophets," 
for  there  were  some  who  were  not  indeed  apos- 
tles, but  prophets,  as  Agabus ;  thirdly,  "  evan- 
gelists," who  did  not  go  about  everywhere,  but 
only  preached  the  Gospel,  as  Priscilla  and 
Aquila ;  "  pastors  and  teachers,"  those  who  were 
entrusted  with  the  charge  of  a  whole  nation. 
What  then?  are  the  pastors  and  the  teachers 
inferior?  Yes,  surely;  those  who  were  settled 
and  employed  about  one  spot,  as  Timothy  and 
Titus,  were  inferior  to  those  who  went  about 
the  world  and  preached  the  Gospel.  However, 
it  is  not  possible  from  this  passage  to  frame 
the  subordination  and  precedence,  but  from 
another  Epistle.  "  He  gave,"  saith  he ;  thou 
must  not  say  a  word  to  gainsay  it.  Or  perhaps 
by  "  evangelists  "  he  means  those  who  wrote  the 
Gospel. 

"  For  the  perfecting  of  the  saints  unto  the 
work  of  ministering,  unto  the  building  up  of  the 
body  of  Christ." 4 

Perceive  ye  the  dignity  of  the  office  ?  Each 
one  edifies,  each  one  perfects,  each  one  min- 
isters. 

Ver.  13.  "Till  we  all  attain,"  he  proceeds, 
"unto  the  unity  of  the  faith  and 'of  the  knowl- 
edge of  the  Son  of  God,  unto  a  full-grown  man, 
unto  the  measure  of  the  stature  of  the  fullness 
of  Christ." 

By  "  stature  "  here  he  means  perfect  "  knowl- 
edge " ;  for  as  a  man  will  stand  firmly,  whereas 

1  [Both  here  and  in  Horn.  xliv.  on  Acts  (xx.  28)  Chrysostom 
reads  tcvpiov  instead  of  6*ov.  The  latter  is,  however,  the  reading  of 
K  B.,  and  is  adopted  by  W.  &  H.  and  the  Rev.  Ver.  (as  well  as  the 
textus  rece/tus) .  —  G.  A.] 

8  ["  The  Apostles  had  an  immediate  call  from  Christ,  a  destina- 
tion for  all  lands  and  a  special  power  of  miracles.  Prophets:  not 
only  in  the  special  sense,  but  also  those  who  spoke  under  the  imme- 
diate impulse  of  the  Holy  Spirit;  Evangelists  were  subordinates  of 
the  Apostles  who  traveled  about.  Pastors  and  teachers,  constitut- 
ing one  and  the  same  class,  were  stationary,  and  probably  included 
presbyters.  — Ellicott.  —  G.  A.1 

4  (The  proper  relation  of  these  prepositional  phrases  is  brought 
out  in  Meyers  translation:  He  has,  with  a  view  to  the  full  furnish" 
tng  of  the  saints,  given  those  teachers  for  the  work  of  ministering, 
for  the  edification  of  the  body  of  Christ.    So  Ellicott.  —  G.  A.] 


Homily  xi.]                          HOMILIES   ON   EPHESIANS.  105 

children  are  carried  about  and  waver  in  mind,  "  by  the  sleight  of  men,  in  craftiness,  after  the 
so  is  it  also  with  believers.  wiles  of  error."    The  word  "sleight  "2  means  the 
"  To  the  unity,"  saith  he,  "  of  the  faith."  art  of  gamesters.    Such  are  the  "  crafty,"  when- 
That  is,  until  we  shall  be  shown  to  have  all  ever  they  lay  hold  on  the  simpler  sort.    For  they 
one  faith :  for  this  is  unity  of  faith,  when  we  all  also   change  and  shift   about    everything.     He 
are  one,  when  we  shall  all  alike  acknowledge  the  here  glances  also  at  human  life. 
common   bond.     Till  then  thou  must  labor  to  Ver.  15,  16.  "But  speaking  truth," 8  saith  he, 
mis  end.     If  for  this  thou  hast  received  a  gift,  "  in  love,  may  grow  up  in  all  things  into  Him, 
that  thou  mightest  edify  others,  look  well  that  which  is  the  Head,  even  Christ,  from  whom," 
thou  overturn  not  thyself,  by  envying  another,  (that  is,  from  Christ,)  "  all  the  body  fitly  framed 
God  hath  honored  thee,  and  ordained  thee,  that  and  knit  together,  through  that  which  every  joint 
thou  shouldest  build  up  another.    Yea,  for  about  supplieth,  according  to  the  working  in  due  meas- 
this  was  the  Apostle  also  engaged ;  and  for  this  ure  of  each  several  part,  maketh  increase  of  the 
was  the  prophet  prophesying  and  persuading,  body  unto  the  building  up  of  itself  in  love." 
and  the  Evangelist  preaching  the  Gospel,  and  He  expresses   himself  with   great   obscurity, 
for  this  was  the  pastor  and   teacher;   all   had  from   his   desire   to   utter   everything  at  once, 
undertaken   one   common  work.     For  tell   me  What  he  means,  however,  is  this.     In  the  same 
not  of  the  difference  of  the  spiritual  gifts ;  but  way  as  the  spirit,  or  vital  principle,  which  de- 
that  all  had  one  work.     Now  when  we  shall  all  scends  from  the  brain,  communicates  the  sensi- 
believe  alike  then  shall  there  be  unity ;  for  that  tive   faculty  which    is   conveyed    through    the 
this  is  what  he  calls  "  a  perfect  man,"  is  plain,  nerves,  not  simply  to  all  the  members,  but  ac- 
And  yet  he  elsewhere  calls  us  "babes"  (1  Cor.  cording  to  the  proportion  of  each  member,  to 
xiii.  11),  even  when  we  are  of  mature  age ;  but  that  which  is  capable  of  receiving  more,  more, 
he  is  there  looking  to  another  comparison,  for  to  that  which  is  capable  of  less,  less,  (for  the 
there  it  is  in  comparison  with  our  future  knowl-  spirit  is  the  root  or  source ;)  so  also  is  Christ. 
edge  that  he  there  calls  us  babes.     For  having  For  the  souls  of  men  being  dependent  upon  Him 
said,  "We  know  in  part"  (1  Cor.  xiii.  9,  12),  as  members,  His  provident  care,  and  supply  of 
he  adds  also  the  word  "  darkly,"  and  the  like  :  the  spiritual  gifts  according  to  a  due  proportion 
whereas  here  he  speaks  with  reference  to  another  in  the  measure  of  every  single  member,  effects 
thing,  with  reference  to  changeableness,  as  he  their  increase.    But  what  is  the  meaning  of  this, 
saith  also  elsewhere,  "  But  solid  food  is  for  full-  "  by  the  touch  of  the  supply"  ?4  that  is  to  say,  by 
grown  men."     (Heb.  v.  14.)     Do  you  see  then  the  sensitive  faculty.5     For  that  spirit  which  is 
also  in  what  sense  he  there  calls  them  full-grown  ?  supplied    to    the    members    from    the    head, 
Observe  also  in  what  sense  he  calls  men  "per-  "touches,"8    each    single    member,   and    thus 
feet "  here,  by  the  words  next  added,  where  he  actuates  it.     As   though  one  should  say,  "  the 
says,  "  that  we   may  be   no  longer  children."  body  receiving  the  supply  according  to  the  pro- 
That  we  keep,  he  means  to  say,  that  little  meas-  portion  of  its  several  members,  thus  maketh  the 
ure,  which  we  may  have  received,  with  all  dili-  increase  " ;  or,  in  other  words,  "  the  members 
gence,  with  firmness  and  steadfastness.  receiving  the  supply  according  to  the  proportion 
Ver.  14.  "That  we  maybe  no  longer." — The  of  their  proper  measure,  thus  make  increase  "  ; 
word,  "  no  longer,"  shows  that  they  had  of  old  or  otherwise    again    thus,    "  the    spirit   flowing 
been  in  this  case,  and  he  reckons  himself  more-  plenteously  from  above,  and  touching 7  all  the 
over  as  a  subject  for  correction,  and  corrects  members,  and  supplying  them  as  each  is  capable 
himself.    For  thjs  cause,  he  would  say,  are  there  of  "  receiving  it,  thus  maketh  increase."     But 
so  many  workmen,  that  the  building  may  not  be  wherefore  doth  he  add,  "  in  love  "  ?     Because  in 
shaken,  may  not  be  "  carried  about,"  that  the  no   other  way  is  it   possible  for  that  Spirit  to 
stones  may  be  firmly  fixed.1     For   this   is   the  descend.     For  as,  in  case  a  hand  should  happen 
character  of  children,  to  be  tossed  to  and  fro,  to  to  be  torn  from  the  body,  the  spirit  which  pro- 
be carried  about  and  shaken.     "That  we  may 

be  no  longer,"  saith  he,  "  children,  tossed  to  and  «  Kvfcia  «v0«vt<u. 

frn    anH    rarrtpH    ahnur  with    pv^rv  winH    nf  Hnr-  8  l"  **yfl*vorrt% :  The  common  meaning,  *  To  speak   iruth,'  is 

HO,  ana    Carried    aDOUt  Wltn    every  WinQ    OI    aOC-  cicariy  unsatisfactory  here.     It  means  'holding  the  truth."'  —  Elli- 

trine,  by  the    Sleight   Of  men,  in    Craftiness,    after  cott.    "  Professing  the  truth,"  Thayer,  Lexicon.    Rev.  Ver.  has  in 

♦L~      *i          r                »i       11  a     j             •    J      1         *.  11        •*.!_  margin  "dealing  truly."     Meyer  says   it   means  here,  as  always, 

the  wiles  of  error."     "  And  carried  about,"  saith  ..  shaking  the  muh/and  correctly,  -g.  a.] 

he,  "with  every  Wind."      He  COmeS  tO  this  figure  ,    «*♦*."  joint,"  Eng.  Tr.     Theodoret,  too,   in   loc.   interprets 

-                            *   .                        .                                 mji  touch*  and  considers  that  it  stands  for  all    the  senses.     S.  Austin 

01  Speech,  tO  point  OUt  in  hOW  great  penl  dOUDt-  translates  tactus  in  Psalm  x.  7,  de  Civ.  D.  xxii.  18,  but  in  the  re- 

inir   cmilc     9rp         "With    pv^rv    wind  "    saith    hp  ceived  meaning.     [See  Meyer.  — G.  A.] 

mg   SOU1S    are.            VVKn    every    Wina,       Saitn    ne,  5  [«  Meyer  still  retains  the  interpretation  of  Chrysostom  and  Theo- 

- dorct  that  *tyt\  =  alo-flijais, "  feeling,"  *'  perception,"  and  connects  the 

clause  with  av^rfatv  iroteirai:  but  the  parallel  passage,  Col.  ii.  19, 

1  ["It  is  not  the  figure  of  a  building  which  Paul  employs  here,  leaves  it  scarcely  doubtful  that  the  meaning  usually  assigned  is  cor- 

t*t  01  a  ship  abandoned  to  the  breakers,  on  which  figurative  expres-  rcct,  and  that  the  clause  is  to  be  connected  with  the  participles."  — 

■°o  of  restless  passive  subjection  to  influences,  compare  Jas.  i.  6."  Ellicott.    So  Thayer,  Lex.t  Rev.  Ver.  —  G.  A.] 

— Meyer.— G.  A.]  *  o«rTdfnw>K.                                                            7  awrofitvov. 


io6 


WORKS   OF   ST.    CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  XL 


ceeds  from  the  brain  seeks  the  limb,  and  if  it 
finds  it  not,  does  not  leap  forth  from  the  body, 
and  fly  about  and  go  to  the  hand,  but  if  it  finds 
it  not  in  its  place,  does  not  touch  it ;  so  also  will 
it  be  here,  if  we  be  not  bound  together  in  love. 
All  these  expressions  he  uses  as  tending  to 
humility.  For  what,  he  seems  to  say,  if  this  or 
that  man  receives  more  than  another?  He  has 
received  the  same  Spirit,  sent  forth  from  the 
same  Head,  effectually  working  in  all  alike,  com- 
municating itself  to  all  alike. 

"  Fitly  framed  and  knit  together." 
That  is,  having  great  care  bestowed  upon  it ; 
for  the  body  must  not  be  put  together  anyhow, 
but  with  exceeding  art  and  nicety,  since  if  it 
gets  out  of  place,  it  is  no  longer.  So  that  each 
must  not  only  be  united  to  the  body,  but  also 
occupy  his  proper  place,  since  if  thou  shalt  go 
beyond  this,  thou  art  not  united  to  it,  neither 
dost  thou  receive  the  Spirit.  Dost  thou  not  see, 
that  in  those  dislocations  of  the  bones  which 
take  place  in  any  accident,  when  a  bone  gets 
out  of  its  proper  place  and  occupies  that  of 
another,  how  it  injures  the  whole  body,  and 
oftentimes  will  produce  death  ?  So  that  some- 
times it  will  be  found  to  be  no  longer  worth 
preserving.  For  many  in  many  cases  will  cut  it 
off,  and  leave  a  void  in  its  place  ;  because  every- 
where what  is  in  excess  is  an  evil.  And  so  again 
with  the  elements,  if  they  lose  their  proper  pro- 
portion and  be  in  excess,  they  impair  the  whole 
system.  This  is  the  meaning  of  the  being 
"fitly  framed  and  knit  together."  Consider 
then  of  how  vast  importance  it  is,  that  each 
should  remain  in  his  own  proper  place,  and  not 
encroach  on  another  which  in  nowise  appertains 
to  him.  Thou  puttest  the  members  together, 
He  supplieth  them  from  above.  For  as  there 
are  in  the  body  such  recipient  organs,  as  we 
have  seen,  so  is  it  also  with  the  Spirit,  the  whole 
root  or  source  being  from  above.  For  example, 
the  heart  is  the  recipient  of  the  breath,  the  liver 
of  the  blood,  the  spleen  of  the  bile,  and  the 
other  organs,  some  of  one  thing,  others,  of 
another,  but  all  these  have  their  source  from  the 
brain.  So  also  hath  God  done,  highly  honoring 
man,  and  being  unwilling  to  be  far  from  him,  He 
hath  made  Himself  indeed  the  source  of  his 
dependence,  and  hath  constituted  them  fellow- 
workers  with  Himself;  and  some  He  hath  ap- 
pointed to  one  office,  and  others  to  another.  For 
example,  the  Apostle  is  the  most  vital  vessel  of 
the  whole  body,  receiving  everything  from  Him  ; 
so  that  He  maketh  eternal  life  to  run  through 
them  to  all,  as  through  veins  and  arteries,  I 
mean  through  their  discourse.  The  Prophet  fore- 
tells things  to  come,  whilst  He  alone  ordereth 
the  same  ;  Thou  puttest  the  members  together,1 

1  [The  text  fluctuates  here.    We  have  given  that  of  Field,  though 
neither  it  nor  any  of  the  other  readings  yields  a  satisfactory  sense. 


but  He  supplies  them  with  life,  "  For  the  per- 
fecting of  the  saints,  for  the  work  of  the 
ministry."  Love  builds  up,  and  makes  men 
cleave  one  to  another,  and  be  fastened  and 
fitted  together. 

Moral.  If  therefore  we  desire  to  have  the 
benefit  of  that  Spirit  which  is  from  the  Head,  let 
us  cleave  one  to  another.  For  there  are  two 
kinds  of  separation  from  the  body  of  the  Church  ; 
the  one,  when  we  wax  cold  in  love,  the  other, 
when  we  dare  commit  things  unworthy  of  our 
belonging  to  that  body;  for  in  either  way  we 
cut  ourselves  off  from  the  "  fullness  of  Christ." 
But  if  we  are  appointed  to  build  up  others  also, 
what  shall  not  be  done  to  them  who  are  first  to 
make  division?  Nothing  will  so  avail  to  divide 
the  Church  as  love  of  power.  Nothing  so  pro- 
vokes God's  anger  as  the  division  of  the  Church. 
Yea,  though  we  have  achieved  ten  thousand 
glorious  acts,  yet  shall  we,  if  we  cut  to  pieces 
the  fullness  of  the  Church,  suffer  punishment  no 
less  sore  than  they  who  mangled  His  body. 
For  that  indeed  was  brought  to  pass  for  the 
benefit  of  the  world,  even  though  it  was  done 
with  no  such  intention;  whereas  this  produces 
no  advantage  in  any  case,  but  the  injury  is 
excessive.  These  remarks  I  am  addressing 
not  to  the  governors  only,  but  also  to  the 
governed.  Now  a  certain  holy  man  said  what 
might  seem  to  be  a  bold  thing ;  yet,  neverthe- 
less, he  spoke  it  out.  What  then  is  this?  He 
said,  that  not  even  the  blood  of  martyrdom  can 
wash  out  this  sin.2  For  tell  me  for  what  dost 
thou  suffer  as  a  martyr?  Is  it  not  for  the  glory 
of  Christ?  Thou  then  that  yieldest  up  thy  life 
for  Christ's  sake,  how  dost  thou  lay  waste  the 
Church,  for  whose  sake  Christ  yielded  up  His 
life  ?  Hear  what  Paul  saith,  "  I  am  not  meet  to 
be  called  an  Apostle  (i  Cor.  xv.  9),  because  I 
persecuted  the  Church  of  God  and  made  havoc 
of  it."  (Gal.  i.  13.)  This  injury  is  not  less 
than  that  received  at  the  hands  of  enemies,  nay, 
it  is  far  greater.  For  that  indeed  renders  her 
even  more  glorious,  whereas  this,  when  she  is 
warred  upon  by  her  own  children,  disgraces  her 
even  before  her  enemies.  Because  it  seems  to 
them  a  great  mark  of  hypocrisy,  that  those  who 
have  been  born  in  her,  and  nurtured  in  her 
bosom,  and  have  learned  perfectly  her  secrets, 
that  these  should  of  a  sudden  change,  and  do 
her  enemies'  work. 

I   mean   these   remarks  for  those  who  give 

Field's  text  is,  <rvvr%Btl%  ra  P^Am  avrb*  avroic  ^wij*  Jtcfnyyct.  An- 
other text,  attested  by  three  MSS.,  has  ovvriBtl*  ra  pfoa,  avrbc 
avToic  fariv  vopiryet.  SavUe's  text,  supported  by  three  MSS.,  has 
kcu  cK«ivof  fiiv  xrvvridtl  ra  wrra,  avrb*  6i  ^urfv  xopiry«t.  It  will  be 
noticed  that  this  same  expression  occurs  a  little  above,  followed  by  • 
clause  like  that  which  follows  here.  —  G.  A.] 

'  "  What  sacrifice  do  they  believe  they  celebrate  who  are  rivals 
of  the  Priests?"  "  If  such  men  were  even  killed  for  confession  of 
the  Christian  name,  not  even  by  their  blood  is  this  stain  washed  out. 
...  He  cannot  be  a  Martyr,  who  is  not  in  the  Church." — St.  Cy- 
prian, Treat,  v.  la,  p.  141. 


Homily  XI.] 


HOMILIES   ON   EPHESIANS. 


107 


themselves  up  indiscriminately  to  the  men  who 
are   dividing  the   Church.     For  if  on  the  one 
hand  those  men  have  doctrines  also  contrary  to 
ours,  then  on  that  account  further  it  is  not  right 
to  mix  with  them :  if,  on  the  other  hand,  they 
hold  the  same  opinions,  the  reason  for  not  mix- 
ing with   them  is   greater  still.     And  why  so? 
Because  then  the  disease  is  from  lust  of  author- 
ity.    Know  ye  not  what  was  the  fate  of  Korah, 
Dathan,  and  Abiram?     (Num.  xvi.  1-35.)     Of 
them  only  did  I  say?     Was  it  not  also  of  them 
that   were  with  them?     What   wilt  thou  say? 
Shall  it  be  said,  "  Their  faith  is  the  same,  they 
are  orthodox  as  well  aswe"?     If  so,  why  then 
are  they  not  with  us  ?    There  is  "  one  Lord,  one 
faith,  one  baptism."     If  their  cause  is  right,  then 
is  ours  wrong ;  if  ours  is  right,  then  is  theirs 
wrong.     "  Children,"  saith  he,  "  tossed  to  and 
fro,  and  carried  about  with  every  wind."     Tell 
me,  dost  thou  think  this  is  enough,  to  say  that 
they  are  orthodox  ?     Is  then  the  ordination l  of 
clergy8  past  and  done  away?    And  what  is  the 
advantage  of  other  things,3  if  this  be  not  strictly 
observed  ?    For  as  we  must  needs  contend  for 
the  faith,  so  must  we  for  this  also.     For  if  it  is 
lawful  for  any  one,  according  to  the  phrase  of 
them  of  old,  "  to  fill  his  hands,"4  and  to  become 
a  priest,  let  all  approach  to  minister.     In  vain 
has  this  altar  been  raised,  in  vain  the  fullness  of 
the  Church,  in  vain  the  number  of  the  priests. 
Let  us  take  them  away  and  destroy  them.  "  God 
forbid ! "   ye  will   say.     You   are   doing   these 
things,  and  do  ye  say,  "  God  forbid  "  ?    How 
say  ye,  u  God  forbid,"  when  the  very  things  are 
taking  place  ?     I  speak  and  testify,  not  looking 
to  my  own  interest,  but  to  your  salvation.     But 
if  any  one  be  indifferent,  he  must  see  to  it  him- 
self: if  these  things  are  a  care  to  no  one  else, 
yet  are  they  a  care  to  me.     "  I  planted,"  saith 
he,  "Apollos  watered,  but  God  gave   the  in- 
crease."    (1  Cor.  iii.  6.)     How  shall  we  bear 
the  ridicule  of  the  Greeks?     For  if  they  re- 
proach us  on  account  of  our  heresies,  what  will 
they  not  say  of  these  things?    "If  they  have 
the  same  doctrines,  if  the  same  mysteries,  where- 
fore does  a  ruler  in  one  Church  invade  another  ? 
See  ye,"  say  they,  "  how  all  things  amongst  the 
Christians  are  full  of  vainglory?    And  there  is 
ambition  among   them,  and   hypocrisy.     Strip 


1  [See  Bingham,  Ant.  Bk.  iv.  ch.  vi.  sec.  n. —  G.  A.] 
1  xeipero*t««.  At  this  time  there  were  two  orthodox  successions 
■  Antioch,  that  of  Paulinus  and  Evagrius,  who  were  successively 
leprcsentatives  of  the  old  line  which  the  Arians  had  dispossessed, 
«d which  Western  Christendom  supported;  and  that  of  Meletius  and 
FbriafL  to  which  St.  Chrysostom  adhered,  and  the  Eastern  Church 
faenuy,  being  the  Arian  succession  conformed  to  orthodoxy.  The 
icham  was  terminated  a.d.  393,  on  the  death  of  Evagrius,  though 
■•party  continued  for  twenty  years  longer. 

'  [n»r  aAA»r,  wanting  in  the  text  of  Field,  is  attested  by  four 
pod  authorities,  and  wields  the  only  sense  that  suits  the  context.  — 

J 
4  Exodus  xxix.  o.    Our  translation  has,  "  Thou  shah  consecrate 

Airoo  and  his  sons    ;  the  margin  gives  the  literal  rendering. "  Thou 

•ft*  £11  the  hands  of  Aaron." 


them,"  say  they,  "  of  their  numbers,  and  they  are 
nothing.  Cut  out  the  disease,  the  corrupt  multi- 
tude." Would  ye  have  me  tell  what  they  say  of 
our  city,  how  they  accuse  us  on  the  score  of  our 
easy  compliances?  Any  one,  say  they,  that 
chooses  may  find  followers,  and  would  never  be 
at  a  loss  for  them.  Oh,  what  a  sneer  is  that, 
what  a  disgrace  are  these  things  !  And  yet  the 
sneer  is  one  thing,  the  disgrace  is  another.  If 
any  amongst  us  are  convicted  of  deeds  the  most 
disgraceful,  and  are  about  to  meet  with  some 
penalty,  great  is  the  alarm,  great  is  the  fear 
on  all  sides,  lest  he  should  start  away,  people 
say,  and  join  the  other  side.  Yea,  let  such 
an  one  start  away  ten  thousand  times,  and 
let  him  join  them.  And  I  speak  not  only  of 
those  who  have  sinned,  but  if  there  be  any  one 
free  from  offense,  and  he  has  a  mind  to  depart, 
let  him  depart.  I  am  grieved  indeed  at  it,  and 
bewail  and  lament  it,  and  am  cut  to  the  very 
heart,  as  though  I  were  being  deprived  of  one 
of  my  own  limbs ;  and  yet  I  am  not  so  grieved, 
as  to  be  compelled  to  do  anything  wrong  through 
such  fear  as  this.  We  have  "  not  lordship  over 
your  faith"  (2  Cor.  i.  24),  beloved,  nor  com- 
mand we  these  things  as  your  lords  and  masters. 
We  are  appointed  for  the  teaching  of  the  word, 
not  for  power/ nor  for  absolute  authority.  We 
hold  the  place  of  counselors  to  advise  you. 
The  counselor  speaks  his  own  sentiments,  not 
forcing  the  hearer,  but  leaving  him  full  master 
of  his  choice  upon  what  is  said ;  in  this  case 
alone  is  he  blameable,  if  he  fail  to  utter  the 
things  which  present  themselves.  For  this  cause 
do  we  also  say  these  things,  these  things  do  we 
assert,  that  it  may  not  be  in  your  power  in  that 
day  to  say,  "  No  one  told  us,  no  one  gave  us 
commandment,  we  were  ignorant,  we  thought  it 
was  no  sin  at  all."  Therefore  I  assert  and  pro- 
test, that  to  make  a  schism  in  the  Church  is  no 
less  an  evil  than  to  fall  into  heresy.  Tell  me, 
suppose  a  subject  of  some  king,  though  he  did 
not  join  himself  to  another  king,  nor  give  him- 
self to  any  other,  yet  should  take  and  keep  hold 
of  his  king's  royal  purple,  and  should  tear  it  all 
from  its  clasp,  and  rend  it  into  many  shreds ; 
would  he  suffer  less  punishment  than  those  who 
join  themselves  to  the  service  of  another  ?  And 
what,  if  withal  he  were  to  seize  the  king  himself 
by  the  throat  and  slay  him,  and  tear  his  body 
limb  from  limb,  what  punishment  could  he 
undergo,  that  should  be  equal  to  his  deserts? 
Now  if  in  doing  this  toward  a  king,  his  fellow- 
servant,  he  would  be  committing  an  act  too 
great  for  any  punishment  to  reach  ;  of  what  hell 
shall  not  he  be  worthy  who  slays  Christ,  and 
plucks  Him  limb  from  limb?  of  that  one  which 
is  threatened  ?  No,  I  think  not,  but  of  another 
far  more  dreadful. 

Speak,  ye  women,  that  are  present,  —  for  this 


io8 


WORKS   OF   ST.   CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  XL 


generally  is  a  failing  of  women,1 — relate  to  them 
that  are  absent  this  similitude  which  I  have 
made ;  startle  them.  If  any  think  to  grieve  me 
and  thus  to  have  their  revenge,  let  them  be  well 
aware  that  they  do  these  things  in  vain.  For  if 
thou  wishest  to  revenge  thyself  on  me,  I  will 
give  thee  a  method  by  which  thou  mayest  take 
vengeance  without  injury  to  thyself;  or  rather 
without  injury  it  is  not  possible  to  revenge  thy- 
self, but  at  all  events  with  less  injury.  Buffet 
me,  woman,  spit  upon  me,  when  thou  meetest 
me  in  the  public  way,  and  aim  blows  at  me. 
Dost  thou  shudder  at  hearing  this  ?  When  I  bid 
thee  buffet  me,  dost  thou  shudder,  and  dost  thou 
tear  thy  Lord  and  Master  and  not  shudder? 
Dost  thou  pluck  asunder  the  limbs  of  thy  Lord 
and  Master,  and  not  tremble?  The  Church  is 
our  Father's  house.  "  There  is  one  body,  and 
one  Spirit"  But  dost  thou  wish  to  revenge 
thyself  on  me?  Yet  stop  at  me.  Why  dost 
thou  revenge  thyself  on  Christ  in  my  stead  ?  nay, 
rather,  why  kick  against  the  nails  ?  In  no  case 
indeed  is  revenge  good  and  right,  but  to  assault 
one  when  another  has  done  the  wrong  is  far 
worse.  Is  it  I  that  wronged  you  ?  Why  then 
inflict  pain  on  Him  who  hath  not  wronged  you  ? 
This  is  the  very  extreme  of  madness.  I  speak 
not  in  irony  what  I  am  about  to  say,  nor  without 
purpose,  but  as  I  really  think  and  as  I  feel.  I 
would  that  every  one  of  those  who  with  you  are 
exasperated  against  me,  and  who  by  this  exas- 
peration are  injuring  themselves,  and  departing 
elsewhere,  would  direct  his  blows  at  me  in  my 
very  face,  would  strip  me  and  scourge  me,  be 
his  charge  against  me  just  or  unjust,  and  let  loose 
his  wrath  upon  me,  rather  than  that  they  should 
dare  to  commit  what  they  now  dare.  If  this 
were  done,  it  were  nothing ;  nothing,  that  a  man 
who  is  a  mere  nothing  and  of  no  account  what- 
ever, should  be  so  treated.  And  besides,  I,  the 
wronged  and  injured  person,  might  call  upon 
God,  and  He  might  forgive  you  your  sins.  Not 
because  I  have  so  great  confidence  ;  but  because 
when  he  who  has  been  wronged,  entreats  for  him 
who  has  done  the  wrong,  he  gains  great  confi- 
dence. "If  one  man  sin  against  another,"  it  is 
said,  "  then  shall  they  pray  for  him  "  *  ( i  Sam. 
ii.  25)  ;  and  if  I  were  unable,  I  might  seek  for 

1  St.  Chrysostom  was  eventually  banished  and  brought  to  his  end 
by  the  Empress  Eudoxia.  Women  had  taken  a  strong  part  with  the 
Arians  from  the  first,  to  which  perhaps  he  alludes.  When  Arius 
began  his  heresy,  he  was  joined  by  seven  hundred  single  women. 
Epiphan.  Hter.  69,  y,  vid.  also  Socr.  ii.  a,  of  the  CMrr/,  Greg.  Nai. 
Or.  48.  of  Constantinople,  &c.  &c. 

*  [This  is  the  reading  of  the  Septuagint,  as  follows:  «»•  ci?  av0pv- 
wov  tic  «jiapT7j,  *po0-cv£oiTat  mrpi  avrov.    The  Hebrew,  however, 


other  holy  men,  and  entreat  them,  and  they 
might  do  it.  .But  now  whom  shall  we  even  en- 
treat, when  God  is  outraged  by  us  ? 

Mark  the  consistency;  for  of  those  who  be- 
long to  this  Church,  some  never  approach  to 
communicate  at  all,  or  but  once  in  the  year,  and 
then  without  purpose,  and  just  as  it  may  happen ; 
others  more  regularly  indeed,  yet  they  too  care- 
lessly and  without  purpose,  and  while  engaged 
in  conversation,  and  trifling  about  nothing: 
whilst  those  who,  forsooth,  seem  to  be  in 
earnest,  these  are  the  very  persons  who  work 
this  mischief.  Yet  surely,  if  it  is  for  these  things 
ye  are  in  earnest,  it  were  better  that  ye  also  were 
in  the  ranks  of  the  indifferent ;  or  rather  it  were 
better  still,  that  neither  they  should  be  indif- 
ferent, nor  you  such  as  ye  are.  I  speak  not  of 
you  that  are  present,  but  of  those  who  are  de- 
serting from  us.  The  act  is  adultery.  And  if 
ye  bear  not  to  hear  these  things  of  them,  neither 
should  ye  of  us.  There  must  be  breach  of  the 
law  either  on  the  one  side  or  the  other.  If  then 
thou  hast  these  suspicions  concerning  me,  I  am 
ready  to  retire  from  my  office,  and  resign  it  to 
whomsoever  ye  may  choose.  Only  let  the 
Church  be  one.  But  if  I  have  been  lawfully 
made  and  consecrated,  entreat  those  who  have 
contrary  to  the  law  mounted  the  episcopal  throne 
to  resign  it. 

These  things  I  have  said,  not  as  dictating  to 
you,  but  only  to  secure  and  protect  you.  Since 
every  one  of  you  is  come  to  age,  and  will  have 
to  give  account  of  the  things  which  he  has  done, 
I  entreat  you  not  to  cast  the  whole  matter  on  us, 
and  consider  yourselves  to  be  irresponsible,  that 
ye  may  not  go  on  fruitlessly  deceiving  yourselves, 
and  at  last  bewail  it.  An  account  indeed  we 
shall  have  to  give  of  your  souls ;  but  it  will  be 
when  we  have  been  wanting  on  our  part,  when 
we  fail  to  exhort,  when  we  fail  to  admonish, 
when  we  fail  to  protest  But  after  these  words, 
allow  even  me  to  say  that  "  I  am  pure  from  the 
blood  of  all  men "  (Acts  xx.  26) ;  and  that 
"  God  will  deliver  my  soul."  (Ezek.  iii.  19,  21.) 
Say  what  ye  will,  give  a  just  cause  why  ye  depart, 
and  I  will  answer  you.  But  no,  ye  will  not  state 
it.  Wherefore  I  entreat  you,  endeavor  hence- 
forward both  to  resist  nobly  and  to  bring  back 
those  who  have  seceded,  that  we  may  with  one 
accord  lift  up  thanksgiving  to  God  ;  for  to  Him 
belongs  the  glory  for  ever  and  ever.     Amen. 

is  different,  and  reads,  "  If  one  man  sin  against  another,  God  shall 
judge  him ;  but  if  a  man  sin  against  the  Lord,  who  shall  entreat  for 
him?"    SotheRev.Ver.  — G.A.] 


HOMILIES   ON    EPHESIANS. 


HOMILY   XII. 


■This  I  say  therefore,  and  testify  in  the  Lord,  that  ye 
no  longer  walk  as  the  Gentiles  also  walk,  in  the  van- 
ity of  their  mind,  being  darkened  in  their  under- 

It  is  the  duty  of  the  teacher  to  build  up  and 
restore  the  souls  of  his  disciples,  not  only  by 
counseling  and  instructing  them,  but  also  by 
alarming  them,  and  delivering  them  up  to  God. 
For  when  the  words  spoken  by  men  as  coming 
from  fellow- servants  are  not  sufficient  to  kindle 
the  soul,  it  then  becomes  necessary  to  make  over 
the  case  to  God.  This  accordingly  Paul  does 
also ;  for  having  discoursed '  concerning  lowli- 
ness, and  concerning  unity,  and  concerning  our 
duty  not  to  rise  up  one  against  another,  hear 
what  he  says.  "This  I  say  therefore,  and  testify 
in  the  Lord,  that  ye  no  longer  walk  as  the  Gen- 
tiles also  walk."  He  does  not  say,  "That  ye 
henceforth  walk  not  as  ye  are  now  walking,"  for 
that  expression  would  have  struck  too  hard. 
But  he  plainly  indicates  the  same  thing,  only  he 
brings  his  example  from  others.  And  so  in  writ- 
ing to  the  Thessalonians,  he  does  this  very  same 
thing,  where  he  says,  "  Not  in  the  passion  of  lust, 
eren  as  the  Gentiles  which  know  not  God." 
(iThess.  iv.  5.)  Ye  differ  from  them,  he  means 
to  say,  in  doctrine,  but  that  is  wholly  God's 
work :  what  I  require  on  your  part,  is  the  life 
and  the  course  of  behavior  that  is  after  God. 
This  is  your  own.  And  I  call  the  Lord  to  wit- 
ness what  I  have  said,  that  I  have  not  shrunk, 
bat  have  told  you  how  ye  ought  to  walk. 
"In  the  vanity,"  saith  he,  "of  their  mind." 
What  is  vanity  of  mind?  It  is  the  being  busied 
■boot  vain  things.  And  what  are  those  vain  things, 
bat  all  things  in  the  present  life  ?  Of  which  the 
fteacher  saith,  "Vanity  of  vanities,  all  is  vanity." 
(Eccles.  i.  2.)  But  a  man  will  say,  If  they  be  vain 
ad  vanity,  wherefore  were  they  made  ?  If  they 
are  God's  works,  how  are  they  vain  ?  And  great 
is  the  dispute  concerning  these  things.  But 
hearken,  beloved :  it  is  not  the  works  of  God 
which  he  calls  vain  ;  God  forbid  !  The  Heaven 
is  not  vain,  the  earth  is  not  vain,  — God  forbid  ! 
—nor  the  sun,  nor  the  moon  and  stars,  nor  our 
ownbody.  No,  all  these  are  "  very  good."  (Gen. 
i-31.)     But  what  is  vain?      Let  us  hear  the 

L-ihtioot,  Schaff.  and  especiallylhc  paragraphing  o 
Oi  thj*  passage  Meyer  sayi :  The  exhortation  OC| 
tadioasmijHedtty  rhedtgreaaion  vv.  j-i6,ii  hi 


Preacher  himself,  what  he  saith  ;  "  I  planted  me 
vineyards,  I  gat  me  men  singers  and  women 
singers,  I  made  me  pools  of  water,  I  had  great 
possession  of  herds  and  flocks,  I  gathered  me 
also  silver  and  gold,  and  I  saw  that  these  are 
vanity."  (Eccles.  ii.  4-8.)  And  again,  "  Van- 
ity of  vanities,  all  things  are  vanity."  (Eccles. 
xii.  8.)  Hear  also  what  the  Prophet  saith, 
"  He  heapeth  up  riches,  and  knoweth  not  who 
shall  gather  them."  (Ps.  xxxix.  6.)  Such  is 
"vanity  of  vanities,"  your  splendid  buildings, 
your  vast  and  overflowing  riches,  the  herds  of 
slaves  that  bustle  along  'the  public  square,  your 
pomp  and  vainglory,  your  high  thoughts,  and 
your  ostentation.*  For  all  these  are  vain  ;  they 
came  not  from  the  hand  of  God,  but  are  of  our 
own  creating.  Rut  why  then  are  they  vain  ? 
Because  they  have  no  useful  end.  Riches  are 
vain  when  they  are  spent  upon  luxury;  but  they 
cease  to  be  vain  when  they  are  "  dispersed  and 
given  to  the  needy."  (Ps.  cxii.  9.)  But  when 
thou  hast  spent  them  upon  luxury,  let  us  look  at 
the  end  of  them,  what  it  is  ;  —  grossness  of  body, 
flatulence,  pantings.  fullness  of  belly,  heaviness 
of  head,  softness  of  flesh,  teverishness,  enerva- 
tion ;  for  as  a  man  who  shall  draw  into  a  leaking 
Vessel  labors  in  vain,  so  also  does  the  one  who 
lives  in  luxury  and  self-indulgence  draw  into  a 
leaking  vessel.  But  again,  that  is  called  "  vain," 
which  is  expected  indeed  to  contain  something. 
but  contains  it  not ;  —  that  which  men  call 
empty,  as  when  they  speak  of  "  empty  hopes." 
And  generally  that  is  called  "vain,"  which  is 
bare  and  purposeless,  which  is  of  no  use.  Let 
us  see  then  whether  all  human  things  are  not  of 
this  sort.  "  Let  us  eat  and  drink,  for  to-morrow 
we  die."  (1  Cor.  xv.  33.)  What  then,  tell  me, 
is  the  end?  Corruption.  Let  us  put  on  cloth- 
ing and  raiment.  And  what  is  the  result?  , 
Nothing.  Such  are  the  lives  of  the  Greeks. 
They  philosophized,  but  in  vain.  They  made 
a  show  of  a  life  of  hardship,  but  of  mere  hard-  ■ 
ship,  not  looking  to  any  beneficial  end,  but  to 
vainglory,  and  to  honor  from  the  many.  But 
what  is  the  honor  of  the  many?  It  is  nothing, 
for  if  they  themselves  which  render  the  honor 
perish,  much  more  does  the  honor.  He  that 
iders  honor  to  another,  ought  first  to  1 

"^"isnrhe 


'  ["■  Vanity  ■  h«rt  i.   r. 
-■--ilk  ■■■f.tht  -.ii-i-r  ....■,■.;,:,. 


f  not  honorfor  hin 


no 


WORKS   OF  ST.   CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  XII. 


jiglf1_jigw_can_  he_  exgl^  render  it   to   another? 
[espicable  characters,  themselves  dishonora- 


ble,  and  objects  ot  reproacn.  what  kind  ot 
honor  then  is  tnisr  Perceive  ye,  how  that  all 
things  are  "vanity  of  vanities"?  Therefore, 
saith  he,  "  in  the  vanity  of  their  mind." 

But  further,  is  not  their  religion  of  this  sort, 
wood  and  stone?  He  hath  made  the  sun  to 
shine  for  a  lamp  to  light  us.  Who  will  worship 
his  own  lamp  ?  The  sun  supplies  us  with  light, 
but  where  he  cannot,  a  lamp  can  do  it.  Then 
why  not  worship  thy  lamp?  "Nay,"  one  will 
say,  "  I  worship  the  fire."  Oh,  how  ridiculous  ! 
So  great  is  the  absurdity,  and  yet  look  again  at 
another  absurdity.  Why  extinguish  the  object 
of  thy  worship?  Why  destroy,  why  annihilate 
thy  god?  Wherefore  dost  thou  not  suffer  thy 
house  to  be  filled  with  him  ?  For  if  the  fire  be 
god,  let  him  feed  upon  thy  body.  Put  not  thy 
god  under  the  bottom  of  thy  kettle,  or  thy  caul- 
dron.1 Bring  him  into  thy  inner  chambers, 
bring  him  within  thy  silken  draperies.  Whereas 
not  only  dost  thou  not  bring  him  in,  but  if  by 
any  accident  he  has  found  entrance,  thou  drivest 
him  out  from  every  place,  thou  callest  everybody 
together,  and,  as  though  some  wild  beast  had 
entered,  thou  weepest  and  wailest,  and  callest 
the  presence  of  thy  god  an  overwhelming  calam- 
ity. I  have  a  God,  and  I  do  all  I  can  to  en- 
shrine Him  in  my  bosom,  and  I  deem  it  my 
true  bliss,  not  when  He  visits  my  dwelling,  but 
when  I  can  draw  Him  even  to  my  heart.  Do 
thou  too  draw  the  fire  to  thine  heart.  This  is 
folly  and  vanity.  Fire  is  good  for  use,  not  for 
adoration  ;  good  for  ministration  and  for  service, 
to  be  my  slave,  not  to  be  my  master.  It  was 
made  for  me,  not  I  for  it.  If  thou  art  a  wor- 
shiper of  fire,  why  recline  upon  thy  couch  thy- 
self, and  order  thy  cook  to  stand  before  thy  god  ? 
Take  up  the  art  of  cookery  thyself,  become  a 
baker  if  thou  wilt,  or  a  coppersmith,  for  nothing 
can  be  more  honorable  than  these  arts,  since 
these  are  they  that  thy  god  visits.  Why  deem 
that  art  a  disgrace,  where  thy  god  is  all  in  all  ? 
Why  commit  it  to  thy  slaves,  and  not  be  ambi- 
tious of  it  thyself?  Fire  is  good,  inasmuch  as 
it  is  the  work  of  a  good  Creator,  but  it  is  not 
God.  It  is  the  work  of  God,  it  was  not  called 
God.  Seest  thou  not  how  ungovernable  is  its 
nature ;  —  how  when  it  lays  hold  on  a  build- 
ing it  stops  nowhere?  But  if  it  seizes  anything 
continuous,  it  destroys  all ;  and,  except  the 
hands  of  workmen  or  others  quench  its  fury,  it 
knows  not  friends  nor  foes,  but  deals  with  all 
alike.  Is  this  then  your  god,  and  are  ye  not 
ashamed?  Well  indeed  does  he  say,  "in  the 
vanity  of  their  mind." 

1  [Compare  x  Kings  xviii.  27,  the  locus  classic  us  where  Elijah 
uses  his  scathing  irony  against  the  priests  of  Baal.  —  G.  A.] 


But  the  sun,  they  say,  is  God.  Tell  me,  how 
and  wherefore.  Is  it  that  he  sheds  abundance 
of  light  ?  Yet  dost  thou  not  see  him  overcome 
by  clouds,  and  in  bondage  to  the  necessity  of 
nature,  and  eclipsed,  and  hidden  by  the  moon? 
And  yet  the  cloud  is  weaker  than  the  sun ;  but 
still  it  often  gains  the  mastery  of  him.  And  this 
indeed  is  the  work  of  God's  wisdom.  God  must 
needs  be  all  sufficient :  but  the  sun  needs  many 
things ;  and  this  is  not  like  a  god.  For  he  re- 
quires air  to  shine  in,  and  that,  too,  thin  air; 
since  the  air,  when  it  is  greatly  condensed,  suf- 
fers not  the  rays  to  pass  through  it.  He  requires 
also  water,  and  other  restraining  power,  to  pre- 
vent him  from  consuming.  For  were  it  not  that 
fountains,  and  lakes,  and  rivers,  and  seas,  formed 
some  moisture  by  the  emission  of  their  vapors, 
there  would  be  nothing  to  prevent  an  universal 
conflagration.  Dost  thou  see  then,  say  ye,  that 
he  is  a  god  ?  What  folly,  what  madness !  A 
god,  say  ye,  because  he  has  power  to  do  harm. 
Nay,  rather,  for  this  very  reason  is  he  no  godf 
because  where  he  does  harm  he  needs  nothing ; 
whereas,  where  he  does  good,  he  requires  many 
things  besides.  Now  to  do  harm,  is  foreign  to 
God's  nature ;  to  do  good,  is  His  property. 
Where  then  the  reverse  is  the  case,  how  can  he 
be  God?  Seest  thou  not  that  poisonous  drugs 
injure,  and  need  nothing;  but  when  they  are 
to  do  good,  need  many  things?  For  thy  sake 
then  is  he  such  as  he  is,  both  good,  and  power- 
less ;  good,  that  thou  mayest  acknowledge  his 
Lord ;  and  powerless,  that  thou  mayest  not  say 
that  he  is  lord.  "  But,"  say  they,  "  he  nourishes 
the  plants  and  the  seeds."  What  then,  at  that 
rate  is  not  the  very  dung  a  god  ?  for  even  that 
also  nourishes.  And  why  not  at  that  rate  the 
scythe  as  well,  and  the  hands  of  the  husband- 
man? Prove  to  me  that  the  sun  alone  does  the 
work  of  nourishing  without  needing  the  help  of 
either  earth,  or  water,  or  tillage ;  but  let  the 
seeds  be  sown,  and  let  him  shed  forth  his  rays, 
and  produce  the  ears  of  corn.  But  now  if  this 
work  be  not  his  alone,  but  that  of  the  rains  also, 
wherefore  is  not  the  water  a  god  also  ?  But  of 
this  I  speak  not  yet.  Why  is  not  the  earth  too 
a  god,  and  why  not  the  dung,  and  the  hoe? 
Shall  we  then,  tell  me,  worship  all  ?  Alas,  what 
trifling !  And  indeed  rather  might  the  ear  of 
corn  be  produced  without  sun,  than  without 
earth  and  water ;  and  so  with  plants  and  all 
other  things.  Were  there  no  earth,  none  of 
these  things  could  ever  appear.  And  if  any  one, 
as  children  and  women  do,  were  to  put  some 
earth  into  a  pot,  and  to  fill  up  the  pot  with  a 
quantity  of  dung,  and  to  place  it  under  the  roof, 
plants,  though  they  may  be  weak  ones,  will  be 
produced  from  it.  So  that  the  contribution  of 
the  earth  and  of  the  dung  is  greater,  and  these 
therefore  we  ought  to  worship  rather  than  the 


Homily  XIL] 


HOMILIES   ON    EPHESIANS. 


in 


sun.     He  requires  the  sky,  he  requires  the  air, 

he  requires  these  waters,  to  prevent  his  doing 

harm,  to  be  as  bridles  to  curb  the  fierceness  of 

his  power,  and  to  restrain  him  from  letting  loose 

his  rays  over  the  world,  like  some  furious  horse. 

And  now  tell  me,  where  is  he  at  night  ?   Whither 

has  your  god  taken  his  departure  ?     For  this  is 

not  like  a  god,  to  be  circumscribed  and  limited. 

This  is  in  feet  the  property  of  bodies  only.    But, 

say  they,  there  is  some  sort  of  power  residing  in 

him,  and  he  has  motion.     Is  this  power  then,  I 

pray  you,  itself  God  ?    Why  then  is  it  insufficient 

in  itself,  and  why  does  it  not  restrain  the  fire  ? 

For  again,  I  come  to  the  same  argument.     But 

what  is  that  power?     Is  it  productive  of  light, 

or  does  it  by  the  sun  give  light,  though  of  itself 

possessing  none  of  these  qualities  ?     If  so,  then 

is  the  sun  superior  to  it.     How  far  shall  we 

unwind  this  maze? 

Again,  what  is  water?  is  not  that  too,  they 
say,  a  god?  This  again  is  a  matter  of  truly 
absurd  disputation.  Is  that  not  a  god,  they  say, 
which  we  make  use  of  for  so  many  purposes? 
And  so  again,  in  like  manner,  of  the  earth.  Truly 
"they  walk  in  the  vanity  of  their  mind,  being 
darkened  in  their  understanding." 

But  these  words  he  is  now  using  concerning 
life  and  conduct.  The  Greeks  are  fornicators 
and  adulterers.  Of  course.  They  who  paint  to 
themselves  such  gods  as  these,1  will  naturally  do 
all  these  things  ;  and  if  they  can  but  escape  the 
eyes  of  men,  there  is  no  one  to  restrain  them. 
For  what  will  avail  the  argument  of  a  resurrec- 
tion, if  it  appear  to  them  a  mere  fable  ?  Yea, 
and  what  that  of  the  torments  of  hell  ?  —  they 
too  are  but  a  fable.  And  mark  the  Satanic  no- 
tion. When  they  are  told  of  gods  who  are  for- 
nicators, they  deny  that  these  are  fables,  but 
believe  them.  Yet  whenever  any  shall  discourse 
to  them  of  punishment,  "  these,"  they  say,  "  are 
poets,  men  who  turn  everything  into  fable,  that 
man's  happy  condition  may  be  on  all  sides  over- 
turned." 

But  the  philosophers,  it  is  said,  discovered 
something  truly  grand,  and  far  better  than  these. 
How?  They  who  introduced  fate,  and  who  tell 
us  that  nothing  is  providential,  and  that  there 
is  no  one  to  care  for  anything,  but  that  all  things 
consist  of  atoms?2  Or,  others  again  who  say 
that  God  is  a  body  ?  Or  who,  tell  me,  are  they  ? 
Are  they  those  who  would  turn  the  souls  of  men 
into  the  souls  of  dogs,  and  would  persuade  man- 
kind that  one  was  once  a  dog,  and  a  lion,  and  a 
fish?  How  long  will  ye  go  on  and  never  cease 
trifling,  "  being  darkened  in  the  understanding  "  ? 
for  they  say  and  do  all  things  as  though  they 

1  [See  SchafTs  History  of  the  Christian  Church ,  Vol.  I.,  pp. 
7*-74«  w»th  Literature  there  noted.  —  G.  A.] 

2  [On  Democritus  and  Leucippus,  founders  of  the  Atomistic  phi- 
«wphy,  tee  Ueberweg's  Hist,  of  Philosophy  (Amer.  ed.),  Vol.  I., 
PP«  67-71;  on  £picun»,  Vol.  I.,  pp.  805-207.  —  G.  A.] 


were  indeed  in  the  dark,  both  in  those  things 
which  concern  doctrine,  and  those  which  con- 
cern life  and  conduct ;  for  the  man  who  is  in 
darkness  sees  none  of  the  things  which  lie  be- 
fore him,  but  oftentimes  when  he  sees  a  rope, 
he  will  take  it  for  a  live  serpent ; 3  or  again,  if 
he  is  caught  by  a  hedge,  he  will  think  that  a 
man  or  an  evil  spirit  has  hold  of  him,  and  great 
is  the  alarm,  and  great  the  perturbation.  Such 
as  these  are  the  things  they  fear.  "  There  were 
they  in  great  fear,"  it  saith,  "  where  no  fear 
was"  (Ps.  liii.  5);  but  the  things  which  they 
ought  to  fear,  these  they  fear  not.  But  just  as 
children  in  their  nurses'  arms  thrust  their  bands 
incautiously  into  the  fire,  and  boldly  into  the 
candle  also,  and  yet  are  scared  a£  a  man  clothed 
in  sackcloth ;  just  so  these  Greeks,  as  if  they 
were  really  always  children,  (as  some  one  also 
amongst  themselves  has  said,4  the  Greeks  are 
always  children,)  fear  those  things  that  are  no 
sins,  such  as  fllthiness  of  the  body,  the  pollution 
of  a  funeral,5  a  bed,  or  the  keeping  of  days,  and 
the  like  :  whereas  those  which  are  really  sins, 
unnatural  lust,  adultery,  fornication,  of  these 
they  make  no  account  at  all.  No,  you  may  see 
a  man  washing  himself  from  the  pollution  of  a 
dead  body,  but  from  dead  works,  never ;  and, 
again,  spending  much  zeal  in  the  pursuit  of 
riches,  and  yet  supposing  the  whole  is  undone 
by  the  crowing  of  a  single  cock.  "  So  darkened 
are  they  in  their  understanding."  Their  soul  is 
filled  with  all  sorts  of  terrors.  For  instance : 
"  Such  a  person,"  one  will  say,  "  was  the  first 
who  met  me,  as  I  was  going  out  of  the  house  "  ; 
of  course  ten  thousand  evils  must  certainly  en- 
sue. At  another  time,  "  the  wretch  of  a  servant 
in  giving  me  my  shoes,6  held  out  the  left  shoe 
first,"  —  terrible  mishaps  and  mischiefs!  "I 
myself  in  coming  out  set  forth  with  the  left  foot 
foremost "  ;  and  this  too  is  a  token  of  misfor- 
tune. And  these  are  the  evils  that  occur  about 
the  house.  Then,  as  I  go  out,  my  right  eye 
shoots  up  from  beneath.  This  is  a  sure  sign  of 
tears.  Again  the  women,  when  the  reeds  strike 
against  the  standards,  and  ring,  or  when  they 
themselves  are  scratched  by  the  shuttle,  turn 
this  also  into  a  sign.  And  again,  when  they 
strike  the  web  with  the  shuttle,  and  do  it  with 
some  vehemence,  and  then  the  reeds  on  the  top 
from  the  intensity  of  the  blow  strike  against  the 
standards  and  ring,  this  again  they  make  a  sign, 
and  ten  thousand  things  besides,  deserving  of 
ridicule.     And  so  if  an  ass  should   bray,  or  a 

*  This  was  the  instance  in  the  Schools.  Vid.  Scxtus  Empiricus, 
Pyrrh.  HyPot.  I.  33. 

4  The  Egyptian  priest  to  Solon.    Plat.  Tim.  p.  22,  B. 
6  Vid.  Theophr.  Charact.  xvi.  ircpi  Sturiiainovtas;  Guther  de 
Jure  Manium  in  Gra*v.  Thes.  12,  1175;   Hes.  Opp.  et  D.  765,  sqq. 

•  Vid.  Plin.  N.  H.  2,  7 ;  Juv.  Sat.  6,  579.  These  and  like  super- 
stitions are  condemned  also  by  Clem.  Alex.  Strom,  vii.  4,  pp.  842- 
844;  St.  Cyril  ofjerus.  iv.  37,  and  St.  AusX.de  Doctr.  Christ,  ii.  20, 
21.  This  series.  Vol.  II.,  p.  54s.  See  also  St.  Chrys.  ad  Ilium 
Catech.  ii.  5.    This  series,  Vol.  IX.,  p.  170.  —  G.  A. 


112 


WORKS   OF   ST.    CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  XIII 


cock  should  crow,  or  a  man  should  sneeze,  or 
whatever  else  may  happen,  like  men  bound  with 
ten  thousand  chains,  or,  as  I  was  saying,  like 
men.  confined  in  the  dark,  they  suspect  every- 
thing, and  are  more  slavish  than  all  the  slaves 
in  the  world.1 

But  let  it  not  be  so  with  us.  But  scorning  all 
these  things,  as  men  living  in  the  light,  and  hav- 
ing our  citizenship  in  Heaven,  and  having  noth- 
ing in  common  with  earth,  let  us  regard  but 
one  thing  as  terrible,  that  is,  sin,  and  offend- 
ing against  God.  And  if  there  be  not  this, 
let  us  scorn  all  the  rest,  and  him  that  brought 
them,  in,  the  Devil.  For  these  things  let 
us  give  thanks  to  God.  Let  us  be  diligent, 
not  only  that  we  ourselves  be  never  caught  by 
this  slavery,  but  if  any  of  those  who  are  dear  to 


us  have  been  caught,  let  us  break  his  bonds 
asunder,  let  us  release  him  from  this  most  bitter 
and  contemptible  captivity,  let  us  make  him  free 
and  unshackled  for  his  course  toward  Heaven, 
let  us  raise  up  his  flagging  wings,  and  teach  him 
to  be  wise  for  life  and  doctrine's  sake.  Let  us 
give  thanks  to  God  for  all  things.  Let  us  be- 
seech Him  that  He  will  not  declare  us  unworthy 
of  the  gifts  offered  to  us,  and  let  us  ourselves 
withal  endeavor  to  contribute  our  own  part,  that 
we  may  teach  not  only  by  speaking,  but  by 
acting  also.  For  thus  shall  we  be  able  to  attain 
His  unnumbered  blessings,  of  which  God  grant 
we  may  all  be  counted  worthy,  in  Christ  Jesus 
our  Lord  with  whom,  to  the  Father  and  the 
Holy  Ghost  together,  be  glory,  might,  and  honor, 
now,  henceforth,  and  for  ever  and  ever.     Amen. 


HOMILY   XIII. 

Ephesians  iv.  17-19. 


•'  This  I  say  therefore,  and  testify  in  the  Lord, .  that  ye 
no  longer  walk  as  the  Gentiles  also  walk,  in  the 
vanity  of  their  mind,  being  darkened  in  their  under- 
standing, alienated  from  the  life  of  God,  because  of 
the  ignorance  that  is  in  them,  because  of  the  hard- 
ening of  their  heart :  who  being  past  feeling,  gave 
themselves  up  to  lasciviousness,  to  work  all  unclean- 
ness  with  greediness." 

These  words  are  not  addressed  to  the  Ephe- 
sians only,  but  are  now  addressed  also  to  you ; 
and  that,  not  from  me,  but  from  Paul ;  or  rather, 
neither  from  me  nor  from  Paul,  but  from  the 
grace  of  the  Spirit.  And  we  then  ought  so  to 
feel,  as  though  that  grace  itself  were  uttering 
them.  And  now  hear  what  it  saith.  "This  I 
say  therefore,  and  testify  in  the  Lord,  that  ye 
no  longer  walk  as  the  Gentiles  also  walk,  in  the 
vanity  of  their  mind,  being  darkened  in  their 
understanding,  alienated  from  the  life  of  God 
because  of  the  ignorance  that  is  in  them,  because 
of  the  hardening  of  their  heart."  If  then  it  is 
ignorance,  if  it  is  hardening,  why  blame  it?8  if 
a  man  is  ignorant,  it  were  just,  not  that  he 
should  be  ill-treated  for  it,  nor  be  blamed,  but 
that  he  should  be  informed  of  those  things  of 
which  he  is  ignorant.  But  mark  how  at  once 
he  cuts  them  off  from  all  excuse.  "  Who  being 
past  feeling,"  saith  he,  "  gave  themselves  up  to 
lasciviousness,  to  work  all  uncleanness  with 
greediness ;  but  ye  did  not   so   learn   Christ." 


1  [Compare  Chrysostom's  Commentary  on  Gal.  i.  7. —  G.  A.] 
*  ["  The  cause  of  this  estrangement  of  the  Gentiles  from  the  life 
of  God  is  the  ignorance  which  is  in  them  through  hardening  of 
heart,  consequently  due  to  their  own  fault."—  Meyer.  —  G.  A.] 


Here  he  shows  us,  that  the  cause  of  their  hard- 
ening was  their  way  of  life,  and  that  their  life 
was  the  consequence  of  their  own  indolence  and 
want  of  feeling. 

"Who  being  past  feeling,"8  saith  he,  "gave 
themselves  up." 

Whenever  then  ye  hear,  that  "  God  gave  them 
up  unto  a  reprobate  mind"  (Rom.  i.  28),  remem- 
ber this  expression,  that  "  they  gave  themselves 
up."  If  then  they  gave  themselves  over,  how 
did  God  give  them  over?  and  if  again  God  gave 
them  over,  how  did  they  give  .themselves  over? 
Thou  seest  the  seeming  contradiction.  The 
word,  "  gave  them  over,"  then,  means  this,  He 
permitted4  them  to  be  given  over.  Seest  thou, 
that  the  impure  life  is  the  ground  for  like 
doctrines  also?  "Every  one,"  saith  the  Lord, 
"that  doeth  ill  hateth  the  light,  and  cometh 
not  to  the  light."  (John  iii.  20.)  For  how  could 
a  profligate  man,  one  more  immersed  in  the 
practice  of  indiscriminate  lewdness  than  the 
swine5  that  wallow  in  the  mire,  and  who  is 
a  lover  of  money,  and  has  not  so  much  as 
any  desire  after  temperance,  enter  upon  a  life 
like  this?  They  made  the  thing,  saith  he, 
their  "work."6  Hence  their  "hardening"  (ver. 
19),  hence  the  "darkness  of  their  understand- 

3  ["  The  estrangement  of  the  Gentiles  from  the  divine  life,  indi- 
cated in  the  preceding  verse,  is  here  proved  in  conformity  with  exfe- 
rience."  —  Meyer.  —  G.  A.] 

4  ["  The  word  implies  an  active  giving  uf,  not  mere  permis- 
sion.—  Meyer,  Ellicott,  Thayer.  — G.  A.] 

6  [The  word  "  swine  "  (\oiputv) ,  though  omitted  from  Field's  text, 
is  clearly  attested,  and  cannot  be  omitted  without  leaving  the  sense 
difficult  and  obscure.  —  G.  A.] 

0  [Namely,  "  to  work  all  uncleanness,"  &c.  —  G.  A.] 


Homily  XIII.] 


HOMILIES   ON   EPHESIANS. 


"3 


ing."     There  is  such  a  thing  as   being  in  the 
dark,  even  while  the  light  is  shining,  when  the 
eyes  are  weak;  and  weak  they  become,  either 
by  the  influx  of  ill  humors,  or  by  superabundance 
of  rheum.    And  so  surely  is  it  also  here ;  when 
the  strong  current  of  the  affairs  of  this  life  over- 
whelms the  perceptive  power  of  the  understand- 
ing, it  is  thrown  into  a  state  of  darkness.     And 
in  the  same  way  as  if  we  were  placed  in  the 
depths  under  water,  we  should  be  unable  to  see 
the  sun  through  the  quantity  of  water  lying,  like 
a  sort  of  barrier,  above  us,  so  surely,  in  the  eyes 
of  the   understanding  also  a  blindness   of  the 
heart  takes  place,  that  is,  an  insensibility,  when- 
ever there  is  no  fear  to  agitate  the  soul.    "  There 
is  no  fear  of  God,"  it  saith,  "  before  his  eyes  " 
(Ps.  xxxvi.  1 )  ;  and  again,  "  The  fool  hath  said  in 
his  heart,  There  is  no  God."    (Ps.  xiv.  1.)    Now 
blindness  arises  from  no  other  cause  than  from 
want  of  feeling ;   this  clogs  the  channels ;   for 
whenever  the  fluids  are  curdled  and  collected 
into  one  place,  the  limb  becomes  dead  and  void 
of  feeling;  and  though  thou  burn  it,  or  cut  it, 
or  do  what  thou  wilt  with  it,  still  it  feels  not.    So 
is  it  also  with  those  persons,  when   they  have 
once  given  themselves  over   to   lasciviousness : 
though  thou  apply  the  word  to  them  like  fire, 
or  steel,  yet  nothing  touches,  nothing  reaches 
them ;  their  limb  is  utterly  dead.     And  unless 
thou  canst  remove   the   insensibility,  so   as   to 
touch  the   healthy   members,   everything   thou 
doest  is  vain. 
"  With  greediness,"  saith  he. 
Here  he  has  most  completely  taken  away  their 
excuse ;  for  it  was  in  their  power,  if  at  least  they 
chose  it,  not  to  be  "  greedy," 1  nor  to  be  "  las- 
civious," nor  gluttonous,  and  yet  to  enjoy  their 
desires.     It  was  in  their  power  to  partake   in 
moderation1  of  riches,  and  even  of  pleasure  and 
of  luxury ;   but  when  they  indulged   the   thing 
immoderately,1  they  destroyed  all. 
"To  work  all  uncleanness,"  saith  he. 
Ye  see  how  he  strips  them  of  all  excuse  by 
speaking  of  "  working  uncleanness."     They  did 
not  sin,  he  means,  by  making  a  false  step,  but 
they  worked  out  these  horrid  deeds,  and  they 
made  the  thing  a  matter  of  study.    "  All  unclean- 
ness " ;  uncleanness  is  all  adultery,  fornication, 
unnatural   lust,  envy,  every  kind  of  profligacy 
and  lasciviousness. 

Ver.  20,  21.  "But  ye  did  not  so  learn  Christ," 
he  continues,  "  if  so  be  that  ye  heard  Him,  and 
were  taught  in  Him  even  as  truth  is  in  Jesus." 

The  expression,  "  If  so  be  that  ye  heard  Him," 
is  not  that  of  one  doubting,  but  of  one  even 

1  [From  the  word  used  by  Chrysostom  as  the  antithesis  of  n-Aeo- 
Krair,  namely,  fitra  avpfierpias  (and  compare  d/mcrpuiv  below)  it 
u  evident  he  understood  the  phrase  iv  nktoyt $ia,  as  the  Revisers  of 
Eog>  Ver.  do,  "  with  greediness."  But  Meyer  denies  that  the  word 
*Wc{t«  ever  means  anything  but  "  covetousness  "  in  the  New  Test. 
SoaUoEUkott G.  A.] 


strongly  affirming :  as  he  also  speaks  elsewhere, 
"  If  so  be  that  it  is  a  righteous  thing  with  God 
to  recompense  affliction  to  them  that  afflict 
you."  (2  Thess.  i.  6.)  That  is  to  say,  It  was 
not  for  these  purposes  that  "  ye  learned  Christ." 

Ver.  22.  "That  ye  put  away  as  concerning 
your  former  manner  of  life,  the  old  man." 

This  then  surely  is  to  learn  Christ,  to  live 
rightly;  for  he  that  lives  wickedly  knows  not 
God,  neither  is  known  of  Him ;  for  hear  what 
he  saith  elsewhere,  "They  profess  that  they 
know  God,  but  by  their  works  they  deny  Him." 
(Tit.  i.  16.) 

"  As  truth  is  in  Jesus ;  that  ye  put  away  as 
concerning  your  former  manner  of  life,  the  old 
man." 

That  is  to  say,  It  was  not  on  these  terms  that 
thou  enteredst  into  covenant.  What  is  found 
among  us  is  not  vanity,  but  truth.  As  the  doc- 
trines are  true,  so  is  the  life  also.  Sin  is  vanity 
and  falsehood;  but  a  right  life  is  truth.  For 
temperance  is  indeed  truth,  for  it  has  a  great 
end ;  whereas  profligacy  ends  in  nothing. 

"  Which  waxeth  corrupt,"  saith  he,  "  after  the 
lusts  of  deceit."  As  his  lusts  became  corrupt, 
so  himself  also.  How  then  do  his  lusts  become 
corrupt?  By  death  all  things  are  dissolved; 
for  hear  the  Prophet,  how  he  saith,  "  In  that 
very  day  his  thoughts  perish."  (Ps.  cxlvi. 
4.)  And  not  by  death  only,  but  by  many  things 
besides  ;  for  instance,  beauty,  at  the  advance  of 
either  disease  or  old  age,  withdraws  and  dies 
away,  and  suffers  corruption.  Bodily  vigor  again 
is  destroyed  by  the  same  means  ;  nor  does  luxury 
itself  afford  the  same  pleasure  in  old  age,  as  is 
evident  from  the  case  of  Barzillai :  *  the  history, 
no  doubt,  ye  know.  Or  again,  in  another  sense, 
lust  corrupts  and  destroys  the  old  man ;  for  as 
wool  is  destroyed  by  the  very  same  means  by 
which  it  is  produced,  so  likewise  is  the  old  man. 
For  love  of  glory  destroys  him,  and  pleasures 
will  often  destroy  him,  and  "  lust "  will  utterly 
"deceive"  him.  For  this  is  not  really  pleasure 
but  bitterness  and  deceit,  all  pretense  and  out- 
ward show.  The  surface,  indeed,  of  the  things 
is  bright,  but  the  things  themselves  are  only  full 
of  misery  and  extreme  wretchedness,  and  loath- 
someness, and  utter  poverty.  Take  off  the 
mask,  and  lay  bare  the  true  face,  and  thou  shalt 
see  the  cheat,  for  cheat  it  is,  when  that  which  is, 
appears  not,  and  that  which  is  not,  is  displayed. 
And  it  is  thus  that  impositions  are  effected. 

The  Apostle  delineates  for  us  four  men.8  Of 
these  I  shall  give  an  explanation.  In  this  place 
he  mentions  two,  speaking  thus,  "  Putting  away 

3  [And  David  said  to  Barzillai,  "  Come  and  I  will  sustain  thee  in 
Jerusalem."  And  Barzillai  said  unto  the  king,  "  I  am  this  day  four- 
score years  old :  can  thy  servant  taste  what  feat  or  what  I  drink? 
can  1  hear  any  more  the  voice  of  singing  men  and  singing  women? 
wherefore  then  should  thy  servant  be  yet  a  burden  unto  my  lord  the 
king?  "  —  a  Sam.  xix.  31-35.  —  G.  A.J 

8  rcwopaf  apfpanrovf  inrovjM&ci. 


U4 


WORKS   OF   ST.   CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  XIII. 


the  old  man,  be  ye  renewed  in  the  spirit  of  your 
mind,  and  put  on  the  new  man."  And  in  the 
Epistle  to  the  Romans,  two  more,  as  where  he 
saith,  "  But  I  see  a  different  law  in  my  members 
warring  against  the  law  of  my  mind,  and  bring- 
ing me  into  captivity  under  the  law  of  sin  which 
is  in  my  members."  (Rom.  vii.  23.)  And 
these  latter  bear  affinity  to  those  former  two, 
the  "  new  man "  to  the  "  inner  man,"  and  the 
"  old  man  "  to  the  "  outer  man."  However, 
three  of  these  four  were  subject  to  corrup- 
tion. Or  rather  there  are  three,  the  new  man, 
the  old,  and  this,  man  in  his  substance  and 
nature.1 

Ver.  23.  "  And  that  ye  be  renewed,"  saith 
.he,  "  in  the  spirit  of  your  mind." 

In  order  that  no  one  may  suppose  that, 
whereas  he  speaks  of  old  and  new,  he  is  intro- 
ducing a  different  person,  observe  his  expression, 
"That  ye  be  renewed."  To  be  renewed  is, 
when  the  selfsame  thing  which  has  grown  old  is 
renewed,  changed  from  one  thing  into  the  other. 
So  that  the  subject  indeed  is  the  same,  but  the 
change  is  in  that  which  is  accidental.  Just  as  the 
body  indeed  is  the  same,  and  the  change  in  that 
which  is  accidental,  so  is  it  here.  How  then  is 
the  renewal  to  take  place  ?  "  In  the  spirit  of 
your  mind,"  saith  he.  Whosoever  therefore  has 
the  Spirit,  will  perform  no  old  deed,  for  the 
Spirit  will  not  endure  old  deeds.  "In  the 
spirit,"  saith  he,  "  of  your  mind,"  that  is,  in  the 
spirit  which  is  in  your  mind.* 

Ver.  24.   "  And  put  on  the  new  man." 

Seest  thou  that  the  subject  is  one,  but  the 
clothing  is  twofold,  that  which  is  put  off,  and 
that  which  is  put  on?  "The  new  man,"  he  con- 
tinues, "  which  after  God  hath  been  created  in 
righteousness  and  holiness  of  truth."  Now 
wherefore  does  he  call  virtue  a  man?  And 
wherefore  vice,  a  man?  Because  a  man  cannot 
be  shown  without  acting ;  so  that  these  things, 
no  less  than  nature,  show  a  man,  whether  he  be 
good  or  evil.  Now  as  to  undress  one's  self  and 
to  dress  one's  self  is  easy,  so  may  we  see  it  is 
with  virtue  and  vice.  The  young  man  is  strong ; 
wherefore  let  us  also  become  strong  for  the  per- 
formance of  good  actions.  The  young  man  has 
no  wrinkle,  therefore  neither  should  we  have. 
The  young  man  wavers  not,  nor  is  he  easily 
taken  with  diseases,  therefore  neither  should  we 
be. 

1  fxakkov  &i  rpctf  curt,  icatpbf  kcu  iraAatof ,  ko.1  ofrrot  6  ovauairjs 

2  [Meyer  takes  a  different  view,  and  says:  The  Holy  Spirit  is 
never,  in  the  New  Test.,  designated  in  such  a  way  that  man  appears 
as  the  subject  of  the  Spirit  (thus  never:  to  irvtv^a  vfiuv,  and  the 
like,  or  as  here:  to  irytvfia  rov  yob?  vp.uv).  In  the  second  place, 
the  Apostle  is  here  putting  forward  the  moral  self-activity  of  the 
Christian  life,  and  hence  had  no  occasion  to  introduce  the  point: 
"  Through  the  Holy  Spirit."  Hence  irytvfia  here  is  the  "  human  " 
spirit,  the  spirit  by  which  your  kov*  is  governed.  Otherwise  Elli- 
cott:  Divine  spirit  united  with  the  human;  and  so  he  understands 
Meyer,  but  incorrectly. ,  See  Ellicott  and  Meyer  in  loc.  —  G.  A.] 


Observe  here  how  he  calls  this  realizing  of 
virtue,  this  bringing  of  it  into  being  from 
nothing,  a  "  creation."  But  what?  was  not  that 
other  former  creation  after  God?  No,  in  no- 
wise, but  after  the  devil.  He  is  the  sole  creator 
of  sin. 

How  is  this  ?  For  man  is  created  henceforth, 
not  of  water,  nor  of  earth,  but  "  in  righteousness 
and  holiness  of  truth."  What  is  this?  He 
straightway  created  him,  he  means,  to  be  a  son : 
for  this  takes  place  from  Baptism.  This  it  is 
which  is  the  reality,  "  in  righteousness  and  holi- 
ness of  truth."  There  was  of  old  a  righteous- 
ness, there  was  likewise  a  holiness  with  the  Jews. 
Yet  was  that  righteousness  not  in  truth,  but  in 
figure.  For  the  being  clean  in  body  was  a  type 
of  purity,  not  the  truth  of  purity ;  was  a  type  of 
righteousness,  not  the  truth  of  righteousness. 
"In  righteousness,"  saith  he,  "and  holiness," 
which  are  "  of  truth." 

And  this  expression  is  used  with  reference  to 
falsehood  ;  for  many  there  are,  who  to  them  that 
are  without,  seem  to  be  righteous,  yet  are  false. 
Now  by  righteousness  is  meant  universal  virtue. 
For  hearken  to  Christ,  how  He  saith,  "  Except 
your  righteousness  shall  exceed  the  righteousness 
of  the  scribes  and  Pharisees,  ye  shall  in  nowise 
enter  into  the  kingdom  of  heaven."  (Matt, 
v.  20.)  And  again,  he  is  called  righteous,  who 
has  no  charge  against  him ;  for  so  even  in  courts 
of  justice  we  say  that  that  man  is  righteous,  who 
has  been  unrighteously  treated,  and  has  not 
done  unrighteously  in  return.  If  therefore  we 
also  before  the  terrible  Tribunal  shall  be  able  to 
appear  righteous  one  towards  another,  we  may 
meet  with  some  lovingkindness.  Toward  God 
indeed  it  is  impossible  we  should  appear  so, 
whatever  we  may  have  to  show.  For  everywhere 
He  overcometh  in  what  is  righteous,  as  the 
Prophet 3  also  saith,  "  That  Thou  mightest  pre- 
vail when  Thou  comest  into  judgment."  But  if 
we  violate  not  what  is  righteous  towards  each 
other,  then  shall  we  be  righteous.  If  we  shall 
be  able  to  show  that  we  have  been  treated  un- 
righteously, then  shall  we  be  righteous. 

How  does  he  say  to  them  who  are  already 
clothed,  "put  on"?  He  is  now  speaking  of 
that  clothing  which  is  from  life  and  good  works. 
Before,  the  clothing  was  from  Baptism,  whereas 
now  it  is  from  the  daily  life  and  from  works ;  no 
longer  "  after  the  lusts  of  deceit,"  but  "  after 
God."  But  what  means  the  word  "  holy  "  ?  It 
is  that  which  is  pure,  that  which  is  due ;  hence 
also  we  use  the  word  of  the  last  duty  in  the  case 
of  the  departed,  as  much  as  to  say,  "  I  owe  them 
nothing  further,  I  have  nothing  else  to  answer 

s  [This  passage  in  the  Hebrew  (Ps.  li.  4)  reads,  "  And  (that  thou 
mayest)  be  clear  when  thou  judgest."  In  the  Sept.  it  is:  «eu  yurq- 
077*  iv  tw  KpivtaBai  at,  which  is  followed  by  Paul  in  Rom.  iii.  4  (ex- 
cept VLKTfatu,  fut.  ind.,  instead  of  aor.  subj.).  We  have  given  here 
the  rendering  of  the  Rev.  Ver.  of  Rom.  iii.  4.  —  G.  A.] 


Homily  XIII.] 


HOMILIES   ON    EPHESIANS. 


"5 


for."  Thus  it  is  usual  for  us  to  say,  "  I  have 
acquitted  myself  of  all  obligations,"1  and  the 
like,  meaning,  "  I  owe  nothing  more." 

Moral.    Our  part  then  is,  never  to  put  off  the 
garment  of  righteousness,  which  also  the  Prophet 
calls,  "the  garment  of  salvation"  (Isa.  lxi.  10), 
that  so  we  may  be  made  like  unto  God.    For  He 
indeed  hath  put  on  righteousness.   This  garment 
let  us  put  on.    Now  the  word,  "put  on,"  plainly 
declares  nothing  else,  than  that  we  should  never 
at  all  put  it  off.    For  hear  the  Prophet,  where  he 
saith,  "  He  clothed  himself  also  with  cursing  as 
with  his  garment,  and  it  came  into  his  inward 
parts."      (Ps.    cix.    18.)     And    again,    "Who 
coverest  Thyself  with  light  as  with  a  garment." 
(Ps.  civ.  2.)     And  again,  it  is  usual  with  us  to 
speak  concerning  men,  such  an  one  has  "  put 
on  "  such  an  one.     So  then  it  is  not  for  one  day, 
nor  for  two,  nor  for  three,  but  he  would  have  us 
ever  arrayed  in  virtue,  and  never  stripped  of  this 
garment.     For  a  man  is  not  so  disfigured  when 
he  is  stripped  of  his  clothing,  as  when  he  is 
stripped  of  his  virtue.     In  the  former  case  his 
fellow-servants  behold  his  nakedness,  in  the  latter 
his  Lord  and  the  Angels.     If  ever  thou  happen 
to  see   any  one  going  out  naked  through  the 
public  square,  tell  me,  art  thou  not  distressed? 
When  then  thou  goest  about  stripped  of  this 
garment,  what  shall  we  say?    Seest  not  those 
beggars  whom  we  are  wont  to  call  strollers,8  how 
they  roam  about,  how  we  pity  even  them  ?    And 
yet  nevertheless  they  are  without  excuse.     We 
do  not  excuse  them  when  they  have  lost  their 
clothes  by  gaming;  and  how  then,  if  we  lose 
this  garment,  shall  God  pardon  us  ?     For  when- 
ever the  devil  sees  a  man  stripped  of  his  virtue, 
he  straightway  disguises  and  disfigures  his  face, 
and  wounds  him,  and  drives  him  to  great  straits. 
Let  us  strip  ourselves  of  our  riches,  that  we  be 
not  stripped    of   righteousness.     The   garb   of 
wealth  mars   this   garment.      It   is   a  robe   of 
thorns.   Thorns  are  of  this  nature  ;  and  the  more 
closely  they  are  wrapped  around  us,  the  more 
naked  are  we  made.     Lasciviousness  strips  us  of 
this  garment ;  for  it  is  a  fire,  and  the  fire  will 
consume  this  garment.     Wealth  is  a  moth  ;  and 
as  the  moth  eats  through  all  things  alike,  and 
spares  not  even  silken  garments,  so  does  this 
also.    All  these  therefore  let  us  put  off,  that  we 
may  become  righteous,  that  we  may  "  put  on  the 
new  man."     Let  us  keep  nothing  old,  nothing 
outward,  nothing  that  is  "corrupt."     Virtue  is 


1  i^mau»aaftw. 

*  Ktirayait.  The  word  occurs  also  in  the  Const  it.  A  post.  viii.  33 
[along  with  such  words  as  0Aa£,  "dolt";  fiayos,  "  sorcerer";  pdv- 
*n,"  soothsayer" ;  9r)f>€wt^Z6^,  "beast-charmer" ;  oyAaywydc,  "  mob- 
kader";  s-cptappara-iroMr,  "amulet-maker."  —  G.  A.J.  Its  deri- 
vation is  somewhat  uncertain.  [Zonaras  (Constantinople,  12  cent.), 
in  his  Lexicon,  given  among  other  definitions,  avAipnK,  "  flute* 
pbyer";  so  also  Eustathius  (Constantinople,  d.  1198),  in  his 
humus  commentary  on  Homer,  11.  a,  776,  defines  it,  from  the  fact 
that  Amtoc  sometimes  means  a  "flute."  But  this  derivation  is 
VKsrioned.  — G.  A.]  The  persons  denoted  by  it  were  wandering 
»t«irians  or  buffoons. 


not  toilsome,  she  is  not  difficult  to  attain.  Dost 
thou  not  see  them  that  are  in  the  mountains? 
They  forsake  both  houses,  and  wives,  and  chil- 
dren, and  all  preeminence,  and  shut  themselves 
away  from  the  world,  and  clothe  themselves  in 
sackcloth,  and  strew  ashes  beneath  them ;  they 
wear  collars  hung  about  their  necks,  and  have 
pent  themselves  up  in  a  narrow  cell.8  Nor  do 
they  stop  here,  but  torture  themselves  with  fast- 
ings and  continual  hunger.  Did  I  now  enjoin 
you  to  do  the  like,  would  ye  not  all  start  away? 
Would  ye  not  say,  it  is  intolerable  ?  But  no,  I 
say  not  that  we  must  needs  do  anything  like 
this  :  —  I  would  fain  indeed  that  it  were  so,  still 
I  lay  down  no  law.  What  then?  Enjoy  thy 
baths,  take  care  of  thy  body,  and  throw  thyself 
freely  into  the  world,  and  keep  a  household, 
have  thy  servants  to  wait  on  thee,  and  make  free 
use  of  thy  meats  and  drinks  !  But  everywhere 
drive  out  excess,  for  that  it  is  which  causes  sin, 
and  the  same  thing,  whatever  it  be,  if  it  becomes 
excessive,  becomes  a  sin ;  so  that  excess  is  noth- 
ing else  than  sin.  For  observe,  when  anger  is 
excited  above  what  is  meet,  then  it  rushes  out 
into  insult,  then  it  commits  every  sort  of  injury ; 
so  does  inordinate  passion  for  beauty,  for  riches, 
for  glory,  or  for  anything  else.  And  tell  me  not, 
that  indeed,  those  of  whom  I  spoke  were  strong ; 
for  many  far  weaker  and  richer,  and  more  luxu- 
rious than  thou  art,  have  taken  upon  them  that 
austere  and  nigged  life.  And  why  speak  I  of 
men?  Damsels  not  yet  twenty  years  old,  who 
have  spent  their  whole  time  in  inner  chambers, 
and  in  a  delicate  and  effeminate  mode  of  life, 
in  inner  chambers  full  of  sweet  ointments  and 
perfumes,  reclining  on  soft  couches,  themselves 
soft  in  their  nature,  and  rendered  yet  more  ten- 
der by  their  over  indulgence,  who  all  the  day 
long  have  had  no  other  business  than  to  adorn 
themselves,  to  wear  jewels,  and  to  enjoy  every 
luxury,  who  never  waited  on  themselves,  but  had 
numerous  handmaids  standing  beside  them,  who 
wore  soft  raiment  softer  than  their  skin,  fine  linen 
and  delicate,  who  reveled  continually  in  roses 
and  such  like  sweet  odors,  —  yea,  these  very 
ones,  in  a  moment,  seized  with  Christ's  flame, 
have  put  off  all  that  indolence  and  even  their 
very  nature,  have  forgotten  their  delicateness  and 
youth,  and  like  so  many  noble  wrestlers,  have 
stripped  themselves  of  that  soft  clothing,  and 
rushed  into  the  midst  of  the  contest.  And  per- 
haps I  shall  appear  to  be  telling  things  incredi- 
ble, yet  nevertheless  are  they  true.  These  then, 
these  very  tender  damsels,  as  I  myself  have 
heard,  have  brought  themselves  to  such  a  degree 
of  severe  training,  that  they  will  wrap  the  coars- 


3  [This  reference  to  the  Monks  in  the  mountains  (in  the  neighbor- 
hood of  Antioch)  is  one  of  the  indications  that  these  Homilies  on 
Kphesians  were  delivered  while  Chrysostom  was  still  at  Antioch.  and 
before  his  elevation  to  the  archbishopric  of  Constantinople.  Com- 
pare also  Horn.  vi.  on  Ephesians.  —  G.  A.] 


u6 


WORKS   OF  ST.   CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  XIII. 


est  horsehair  about  their  own  naked  bodies,  and 
go  with  those  tender  soles  unsandaled,  and  will 
lie  upon  a  bed  of  leaves :  nay  more,  that  they 
watch  the  greater  part  of  the  night,  and  that 
they  take  no  heed  of  perfumes  nor  of  any  other 
of  their  old  delights,  but  will  even  let  their  head, 
once  so  carefully  dressed,  go  without  special 
care,  with  the  hair  just  plainly  and  simply  bound 
up,  so  as  not  to  fall  into  unseemliness.  And 
their  only  meal  is  in  the  evening,  a  meal  not 
even  of  herbs  nor  of  bread,  but  of  flour  and 
beans  and  pulse  and  olives  and  figs.  They  spin 
without  intermission,  and  labor  for  harder  than 
their  handmaids  at  home.  What  more?  they 
will  take  upon  them  to  wait  upon  women  who 
are  sick,  carrying  their  beds,  and  washing  their 
feet.  Nay,  many  of  them  even  cook.  So  great 
is  the  power  of  the  flame  of  Christ ;  so  far  does 
their  zeal  surpass  their  very  nature. 

However,  I  demand  nothing  like  this  of  you, 
seeing  ye  have  a  mind  to  be  outstripped  by 
women.  Yet  at  least,  if  there  be  any  tasks  not 
too  laborious,  at  least  perform  these :  restrain 
the  rude  hand,  and  the  incontinent  eye.  What 
is  there,  tell  me,  so  hard,  what  so  difficult?  Do 
what  is  just  and  right,  wrong  no  man,  be  ye  poor 
or  rich,  shopkeepers  or  hired  servants ;  for  un- 
righteousness may  extend  even  to  the  poor.  Or 
see  ye  not  how  many  broils  these  engage  in,  and 
turn  all  things  upside  down  ?  Marry  freely,  and 
have  children.  Paul  also  gave  charge  to  such, 
to  such  he  wrote.  Is  that  struggle  I  spoke  of 
too  great,  and  the  rock  too  lofty,  and  its  top  too 
nigh  unto  Heaven,  and  art  thou  unable  to  attain 
to  such  an  height  ?  At  least  then  lay  hold  on 
lesser  things,  and  aim  at  those  which  are  lower. 
Hast  thou  not  courage  to  get  rid  of  thine  own 
riches?  At  least  then  forbear  to  seize  on  the 
things  of  others,  and  to  do  them  wrong.  Art 
thou  unable  to  fast?  At  least  then  give  not  thy- 
self to  self-indulgence.  Art  thou  unable  to  lie 
upon  a  bed  of  leaves?  Still,  prepare  not  for 
yourselves  couches  inlaid  with  silver ;  but  use  a 
couch  and  coverings  formed  not  for  display,  but 
for  refreshment ;  not  couches  of  ivory.  Make 
thyself  small.  Why  fill  thy  vessel  with  over- 
whelming cargoes?  If  thou  be  lightly  equipped, 
thou  shalt  have  nothing  to  fear,  no  envy,  no  rob- 
bers, no  liers  in  wait.  For  indeed  thou  art  not 
so  rich  in  money  as  thou  art  in  cares.  Thou 
aboundest  not  so  much  in  possessions,  as  in 
anxieties  and  in  perils,  "  which  bring  in  many 
temptations  and  lusts."  (i  Tim.  vi.  9.)  These 
things  they  endure,  who  desire  to  gain  great 
possessions.  I  say  not,  minister  unto  the  sick ; 
yet,  at  least,  bid  thy  servant  do  it.  Seest 
thou  then  how  that  this  is  no  toilsome  task  ?  No, 
for  how  can  it  be,  when  tender  damsels  surpass 
us  by  so  great  a  distance  ?  Let  us  be  ashamed 
of    ourselves,    I   entreat   you ;    for    in  worldly 


matters,  to  be  sure,  we  in  no  point  yield  to 
them,  neither  in  wars,  nor  in  games ;  but  in  the 
spiritual  contest  they  get  the  advantage  of  us, 
and  are  the  first  to  seize  the  prize,  and  soar 
higher,  like  so  many  eagles:1  whilst  we,  like 
jackdaws,  are  ever  living  in  the  steam  and  smoke ; 
for  truly  is  it  the  business  of  jackdaws,  and  of 
greedy  dogs,  to  be  setting  one's  thoughts  upon 
caterers  and  cooks.  Hearken  about  the  women 
of  old ;  they  were  great  characters,  great  women 
and  admirable  ;  such  were  Sarah,  Rebekah,  Ra- 
chel, Deborah,  and  Hannah;  and  such  there 
were  also  in  the  days  of  Christ.  Yet  did  they 
in  no  case  outstrip  the  men,  but  occupied  the 
second  rank.  But  now  it  is  the  very  contrary ; 
women  outstrip  and  eclipse  us.  How  contempti- 
ble !  What  a  shame  is  this  !  We  hold  the  place 
of  the  head,  and  are  surpassed  by  the  body.  We 
are  ordained  to  rule  over  them ;  not  merely  that 
we  may  rule,  but  that  we  may  rule  in  goodness 
also ;  for  he  that  ruleth,  ought  especially  to  rule 
in  this  respect,  by  excelling  in  virtue ;  whereas 
if  he  is  surpassed,  he  is  no  longer  ruler.1  Per- 
ceive ye  how  great  is  the  power  of  Christ's  com- 
ing? how  He  dissolved  the  curse?  For  indeed 
there  are  more  virgins  than  before  among  women, 
there  is  more  modesty  in  those  virgins,  and  there 
are  more  widows.  No  woman  would  lightly  utter 
so  much  as  an  unseemly  word.  Wherefore  then, 
tell  me,  dost  thou  use  filthy  speech?  For  tell 
me  not  that  they  were  virgins  in  despondency  or 
despair. 

The  sex  is  fond  of  ornament,  and  it  has  this 
failing.  Yet  even  in  this  you  husbands  surpass 
them,  who  pride  yourselves  even  upon  them,  as 
your  own  proper  ornament ;  for  I  do  not  think 
that  the  wife  is  so  ostentatious  of  her  own  jewels, 
as  the  husband  is  of  those  of  his  wife.  He  is 
not  so  proud  of  his  own  golden  girdle,  as  he  is 
of  his  wife's  wearing  jewels  of  gold.  So  that 
even  of  this  you  are  the  causes,  who  light  the 
spark  and  kindle  up  the  flame.  But  what  is 
more,  it  is  not  so  great  a  sin  in  a  woman  as  in  a 
man.  Thou  art  ordained  to  regulate  her;  in 
every  way  thou  claimest  to  have  the  preemi- 
nence. Show  her  then  in  this  also,  that  thou 
takest  no  interest  in  this  costliness  of  hers,  by 
thine  own  apparel.  It  is  more  suitable  for  a 
woman  to  adorn  herself,  than  for  a  man.  If 
then  thou  escape  not  the  temptation,  how  shall 
she  escape  it?  They  have  moreover  their  share 
of  vainglory,  but  this  is  common  to  them  with 
men.  They  are  in  a  measure  passionate,  and 
this  again  is  common  to  them  with  men.  But 
as  to  those  things  wherein  they  excel,  these  are 

1  [This  passage  is  so  like  a  passage  in  one  of  Pindar's  Nemean 
odes  that  some  have  thought  Cnrysostom  must  have  had  that  in 
mind.  Pind.  Nem.  3.  138:  «<m  b'  aterbc  *»kv*  iv  vtravoUt  bt  tAa- 
&tv  atya,  njAofo  fitrafiaiOfitvo^,  fta^oipbr  oypav  vooiv  •  Kpoyrri  6i 
koAoioi  ranttva  vtfiovrat.  — G.  A.] 

3  [Compare  Carl  vie 's  lecture  on  Cromwell  and  Napoleon  in 
Heroes  and  Hero-  Worship.  —  G.  A.] 


Homily  XIV.] 


HOMILIES   ON   EPHESIANS. 


117 


no  longer  common  to  them  with  men;  their 
sanctity,  I  mean,  their  fervency,  their  devotion, 
their  love  towards  Christ  Wherefore  then,  one 
may  say,  did  Paul  exclude  them  from  the 
teacher's  seat?  And  here  again  is  a  proof  how 
great  a  distance  they  were  from  the  men,  and 
that  the  women  of  those  days  were  great.  For, 
tell  me,  while  Paul  was  teaching,  or  Peter,  or 
those  saints  of  old,  had  it  been  right  that  a 
woman  should  intrude  into  the  office  ?  Whereas 
we  have  gone  on  till  we  have  come  so  debased, 
that  it  is  worthy  of  question,  why  women  are 
not  teachers.  So  truly  have  we  come  to  the 
same  weakness  as  they.  These  things  I  have 
said  not  from  any  desire  to  elate  them,  but  to 


shame  ourselves,  to  chastise,  and  to  admonish  us, 
that  so  we  may  resume  the  authority  that  belongs 
to  us,  not  inasmuch  as  we  are  greater  in  size,  but 
because  of  our  foresight,  our  protection  of  them, 
and  our  virtue.  For  thus  shall  the  body  also  be 
in  the  order  which  befits  it,  when  it  has  the  best 
head  to  rule.  And  God  grant  that  all,  both 
wives  and  husbands,  may  live  according  to  His 
good  pleasure,  that  we  may  all  in  that  terrible 
day  be  counted  worthy  to  enjoy  the  lovingkind- 
ness  of  our  Master,  and  to  attain  those  good 
things  which  are  promised  in  Jesus  Christ  our 
Lord,  with  whom  to  the  Father,  together  with  the 
Holy  Ghost,  be  glory,  might,  and  honor,  now  and 
forever  and  ever.    Amen. 


HOMILY    XIV. 


Ephesians  iv.  25-27. 


14  Wherefore,  patting  away  falsehood,  speak  ye  truth  each 
one  with  his  neighbor;  for  we  are  members  one  of 
another.  Be  ye  angry,  and  sin  not;  let  not  the  sun 
go  down  upon  your  wrath :  neither  give  place  to  the 
devil." 

Having  spoken  of  the  "  old  man  "  generally, 
he  next  draws  him  also  in  detail ; 1  for  this  kind 
of  teaching  is  more  easily  learned  when  we  learn 
by  particulars.  And  what  saith  he?  "Where- 
fore, putting  away  falsehood . ' '  What  sort  of  false- 
hood? Idols  does  he  mean?  Surely  not;  not 
indeed  but  that  they  are  falsehood  also.  How- 
ever, he  is  not  now  speaking  of  them,  because 
these  persons  had  nothing  to  do  with  them  ;  but 
he  is  speaking  of  that  which  passes  between  one 
man  and  another,  meaning  that  which  is  deceit- 
ful and  false.  "  Speak  ye  truth,  each  one,"  saith 
he,  "with  his  neighbor";  then  what  is  more 
touching  to  the  conscience*  still,  "because  we 
are  members  one  of  another."  Let  no  man 
deceive  his  neighbor.  As  the  Psalmist  says 
here  and  there ;  "  With  flattering  lip  and  with 
a  double  heart  do  they  speak."  (Ps.  xii.  2.) 
For  there  is  nothing,  no,  nothing  so  productive 
of  enmity  as  deceit  and  guile. 

Observe  how  everywhere  he  shames  them  by 
this  similitude  of  the  body.  Let  not  the  eye, 
saith  he,  lie  to  the  foot,  nor  the  foot  to  the  eye. 
For  example,  if  there  shall  be  a  deep  pit,  and 
then  by  having  reeds  laid  across  upon  the  mouth 
of  it  upon  the  earth,  and  yet  concealed  under 

1  ["  And  the  first  exhortation  here  was  suggested  by  the  immc- 
fefcfr  preceding  oA^fcut.  The  figurative  form  of  the  precept  also 
(***MfM»o«,  "putting  off')  is  an  echo  from  what  precedes."  — 
«**?er.  —  G.  A.J 

*  ["  *  Members'  00c  of  another*  and  to 4  lie '  to  one  another,  — 
kow contradictory!  "  —  Meyer.— G.  A.] 


earth,  it  shall  by  its  appearance  furnish  to  the 
eye  an  expectation  of  solid  ground,  will  not  the 
eye  use  the  foot,  and  discover  whether  it  yields8 
and  is  hollow  underneath,  or  whether  it  is  firm 
and  resists?4  Will  the  foot  tell  a  lie,  and  not 
report  the  truth  as  it  is  ?  And  what  again  ?  If 
the  eye  were  to  spy  a  serpent  or  a  wild  beast, 
will  it  lie  to  the  foot  ?  Will  it  not  at  once  inform 
it,  and  the  foot  thus  informed  by  it  refrain  from 
going  on?  And  what  again,  when  neither  the 
foot  nor  the  eye  shall  know  how  to  distinguish, 
but  all  shall  depend  upon  the  smelling,  as,  for 
example,  whether  a  drug  be  deadly  or  not ;  will 
the  smelling  lie  to  the  mouth?  And  why  not? 
Because  it  will  be  destroying  itself  also.  But  it 
tells  the  truth  as  it  appears  to  itself.  And  what 
again  ?  Will  the  tongue  lie  to  the  stomach  ?  Does 
it  not,  when  a  thing  is  bitter,  reject  it,  and,  if  it 
is  sweet,  pass  it  on?  Observe  ministration,  and 
interchange  of  service ;  observe  a  provident  care 
arising  from  truth,  and,  as  one  might  say,  spon- 
taneously from  the  heart.  So  surely  should  it  be 
with  us  also ;  let  us  not  lie,  since  we  are  "  mem- 
bers one  of  another."  This  is  a  sure  token  of 
friendship ;  whereas  the  contrary  is  of  enmity. 
What  then,  thou  wilt  ask,  if  a  man  shall  use 
!  treachery  against  thee  ?  Hearken  to  the  truth. 
I  If  he  use  treachery,  he  is  not  a  member ;  whereas 
he  saith,  "  lie  not  towards  the  members." 

"  Be  ye  angry,  and  sin  not." 

Observe  his  wisdom.  He  both  speaks  to  pre- 
vent our  sinning,  and,  if  we  do  not  listen,  still 

8  f ei««i,  Field's  emendation  for  the  reading  «urjj  of  the  MSS. 
He  cites  the  phrase  rb  «Ikov  koX  fit)  avrirvnovv  from  Plato,  Cratf* 
/us,  430  D.  —  G.  A.] 

4  arnrwci. 


n8 


WORKS   OF   ST.    CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  XIV. 


does  not  forsake  us ;  for  his  fatherly  compassion 
does  not  desert  him.  For  just  as  the  physician 
prescribes  to  the  sick  what  he  must  do,  and  if 
he  does  not  submit  to  it,  still  does  not  treat  him 
with  contempt,  but  proceeding  to  add  what  ad- 
vice he  can  by  persuasion,  again  goes  on  with 
the  cure  ;  so  also  does  Paul.  For  he  indeed  who 
does  otherwise,  aims  only  at  reputation,  and  is 
annoyed  at  being  disregarded ;  whereas  he  who 
on  all  occasions  aims  at  the  recovery  of  the 
patient,  has  this  single  object  in  view,  how  he 
may  restore  the  patient,  and  raise  him  up  again. 
This  then  is  what  Paul  is  doing.  He  has  said, 
"  Lie  not."  Yet  if  ever  lying  should  produce 
anger,1  he  goes  on  again  to  cure  this  also.  For 
what  saith  he  ?  "  Be  ye  angry,  and  sin  not." 
It  were  good  indeed  never  to  be  angry.  Yet  if 
ever  any  one  should  fall  into  passion,  still  let 
him  not  fall  into  so  great  a  degree.  "  For  let 
not  the  sun,"  saith  he,  "  go  down  upon  your 
wrath."  Wouldest  thou  have  thy  fill  of  anger? 
One  hour,  or  two,  or  three,  is  enough  for  thee  ; 
let  not  the  sun  depart,  and  leave  you  both  at 
enmity.  It  was  of  God's  goodness  that  he  rose  ; 
let  him  not  depart,  having  shone  on  unworthy 
men.  For  if  the  Lord  of  His  great  goodness 
sent  him,  and  hath  Himself  forgiven  thee  thy 
sins,  and  yet  thou  forgivest  not  thy  neighbor, 
look,  how  great  an  evil  is  this  !  And  there  is 
yet  another  besides  this.  The  blessed  Paul 
dreads  the  night,2  lest  overtaking  in  solitude 
him  that  was  wronged,  still  burning  with  anger, 
it  should  again  kindle  up  the  fire.  For  as 
long  as  there  are  many  things  in  the  daytime 
to  banish  it,  thou  art  free  to  indulge  it ;  but  as 
soon  as  ever  the  evening  comes  on,  be  recon- 
ciled, extinguish  the  evil  whilst  it  is  yet  fresh  ; 
for  should  night  overtake  it,  the  morrow  will 
not  avail  to  extinguish  the  further  evil  which 
will  have  been  collected  in  the  night.  Nay, 
even  though  thou  shouldest  cut  off  the  greater 
portion,  and  yet  not  be  able  to  cut  off  the 
whole,  it  will  again  supply  from  what  is  left 
for  the  following  night,  to  make  the  blaze  more 
violent.  And  just  as,  should  the  sun  be  unable 
by  the  heat  of  the  day  to  soften  and  disperse 
that  part  of  the  air  which  has  been  during  the 
night  condensed  into  cloud,  it  affords  material 

1  [This  seems  to  be  a  correct  account  of  the  connection,  but  the 
exact  force  of  the  first  imperative  it  is  not  easy  to  determine.  Winer 
(Grammar  of  N.  T.,  Thayer's  translation,  pp.  311,  312)  takes  it/er~ 
missively:  Be  angry  (I  give  you  leave),  but  do  not  sin.  He  cites  in 
proof  Jer.  x.  24,  which,  however,  can  be  otherwise  explained,  namely, 
as  the  imperative  of  request,  used  in  prayer.  Compare  the  lord's 
prayer.  Meyer  says  it  does  not  seem  logical  to  connect  two  impera- 
tives by  Kat  unless  they  are  taken  in  the  same  sense.  If  the  first 
imperative  were  /er  missive,  the  combination  would  be  exceptive  y 
and  aAA«i,  novov  or  itki)v  (Jer.  x.  24)  would  be  required.  Both  im- 
peratives then  are  jussive,  and  there  is  an  anger  which  a  man  not 
only  may,  but  ought,  to  feel.     So  Ellicott  and  Riddle.  —  O.  A  J 

*  ["  There  does  not  appear  any  allusion  to  the  possible  effect  of 
night  upon  anger,  as  Chrysostom  here,  and  Theophylact  also."  — 
Ellicott.  The  parallel  Pythagorean  custom  is  cited  by  Ellicott 
(Hammond  and  Wetstein) :  "  If  they  were  ever  carried  away  by  an- 
ger into  railing,  before  the  setting  of  the  sun  they  gave  the  right 
hand  to  each  other,  embraced  each  other,  and  were  reconciled."  — 
G.  A.] 


for  a  tempest,  night  overtaking  the  remainder, 
and  feeding  it  again  with  fresh  vapors :  so  also 
is  it  in  the  case  of  anger. 

"  Neither  give  place  to  the  devil." 
So  then  to  be  at  war  with  one  another,  is  "  to 
give  place  to  the  devil " ;  for,  whereas  we  had 
need  to  be  all  in  close  array,  and  to  make  our 
stand  against  him,  we  have  relaxed  our  enmity 
against  him,  and  are  giving  the  signal  for  turn- 
ing against  each  other ;  for  never  has  the  devil 
such  place  as  in  our  enmities.8  Numberless  are 
the  evils  thence  produced.  And  as  stones  in 
a  building,  so  long  as  they  are  closely  fitted 
together  and  leave  no  interstice,  will  stand  firm, 
while  if  there  is  but  a  single  needle's  passage 
through,  or  a  crevice  no  broader  than  a  hair, 
this  destroys  and  ruins  all ;  so  is  it  with  the 
devil.  So  long  indeed  as  we  are  closely  set  and 
compacted  together,  he  cannot  introduce  one 
of  his  wiles ;  but  when  he  causes  us  to  relax  a 
little,  he  rushes  in  like  a  torrent.  In  every  case 
he  needs  only  a  beginning,  and  this  is  the  thing 
which  it  is  difficult  to  accomplish ;  but  this 
done,  he  makes  room  on  all  sides  for  himself. 
For  henceforth  he  opens  the  ear  to  slanders, 
and  they  who  speak  lies  are  the  more  trusted : 
they  have  enmity  which  plays  the  advocate,  not 
truth  which  judges  justly.  And  as,  where  friend- 
ship4 is,  even  those  evils  which  are  true  appear 
false,  so  where  there  is  enmity,  even  the  false 
appear  true.  There  is  a  different  mind,  a  differ- 
ent tribunal,  which  does  not  hear  fairly,  but  with 
great  bias  and  partiality.  As,  in  a  balance,  if 
lead  is  cast  into  the  scale,  it  will  drag  down  the 
whole ;  so  is  it  also  here,  only  that  the  weight 
of  enmity  is  far  heavier  than  any  lead.  \Vhere- 
fore,  let  us,  I  beseech  you,  do  all  we  can  to 
extinguish  our  enmities  before  the  going  down 
of  the  sun.  For  if  you  fail  to  master  it  on  the 
very  first  day,  both  on  the  following,  and  often- 
times even  for  a  year,  you  will  be  protracting  it, 
and  the  enmity  will  thenceforward  augment  itself, 
and  require  nothing  to  aid  it.  For  by  causing 
us  to  suspect  that  words  spoken  in  one  sense 
were  meant  in  another,  and  gestures  also,  and 
everything,  it  infuriates  and  exasperates  us,  and 
makes  us  more  distempered  than  madmen,  not 
enduring  either  to  utter  a  name,  or  to  hear  it, 
but  saying  everything  in  invective  and  abuse. 
How  then  are  we  to  allay  this  passion?  How 
shall  we  extinguish  the  flame  ?  By  reflecting  on 
our  own  sins,  and  how  much  we  have  to  answer 
for  to  God  ;  by  reflecting  that  we  are  wreaking 
vengeance,  not  on  an  enemy,  but  on  ourselves ; 
by  reflecting  that  we  are  delighting  the  devil, 
that  we  are  strengthening  our  enemy,  our  real 

3  [This  reference  to  church  life  is  not  implied  in  the  context. 
He  follows  up  what  he  said  before  by  saying,  Give  not  to  the  devil 
opportunity  for  being  active  by  an  angry  state  of  mind. — G.  A.] 

4  [Compare  Goethe: 

Die  Freundschaft  ist  gerecht.    Sie  kann  allcin, 

Den  ganzen  Umfang  seines  Werths  erkenncn.— G.  A.] 


Homily  XIV.] 


HOMILIES   ON   EPHESIANS. 


119 


enemy,  and  that  for  him  we  are  doing  wrong  to 
our  own  members.    Wouldest  thou  be  revenge- 
ful and  be  at  enmity  ?    Be  at  enmity,  but  be  so 
with  the  devil,  and  not  with  a  member  of  thine 
own.     For  this   purpose   it  is   that   God   hath 
armed  us  with  anger,  not  that  we  should  thrust 
the  sword  against  our  own  bodies,  but  that  we 
should  baptize1  the  whole  blade  in  the  devil's 
breast    There  bury  the  sword  up  to  the  hilt ; 
yea,  if  thou  wilt,  hilt  and  all,  and  never  draw  it 
out  again,  but  add   yet  another  and  another. 
And  this  actually  comes  to  pass  when  we  are 
merciful  to  those  of  our  own  spiritual  family  and 
peaceably  disposed  one  towards  another.    Perish 
money,  perish  glory  and  reputation ;  mine  own 
member  is  dearer  to  me  than  they  all.     Thus 
let  us  say  to  ourselves ;  let  us  not  do  violence 
to  our  own  nature   to   gain  wealth,  to   obtain 
glory. 

Ver.  28.  "Let  him  that  stole/'2  saith  he. 
"  steal  no  more." 

Seest  thou  what  are  the  members  of  the  old 
man  ?  Falsehood,  revenge,  theft.  Why  said  he 
not,  "  Let  him  that  stole  "  be  punished,  be  tor- 
tured, be  racked ;  but,  "  let  him  steal  no  more  "  ?. 
"  But  rather  let  him  labor,  working  with  his  hands 
the  thing  that  is  good,  that  he  may  have  whereof 
to  give  to  him  that  hath  need." 

Where  are  they  which  are  called  pure  ; 8  they 
that  are  full  of  all  defilement,  and  yet  dare  to 
give  themselves  a  name  like  this?  For  it  is 
possible,  very  possible,  to  put  off  the  reproach, 
not  only  by  ceasing  from  the  sin,  but  by  working 
some  good  thing  also.  Perceive  ye  how  we  ought 
to  get  quit  of  the  sin  ?  "  They  stole."  This  is  the 
sin.  "They  steal  no  more."  This  is  not  to  do 
away  the  sin.  But  how  shall  they  ?  If  they  labor, 
and  charitably  communicate  to  others,  thus  will 

1  SarTilttpcy  ttjh'  iiA\axpav  eic  to  tov  8ia06Aov  otIj&oc. 

1  [" '  The  stealer  (o  Kkiwruv)  is  to  steal  no  more.'  The  present 
participle  does  not  stand  for  the  past,  but  is  used  substantively  (like 
0  ffYupwr,  Matt.  xiii.  3) .  As  there  were  in  the  apostolic  church  '  for- 
nicators '  (1  Cor.  v.  z),  so  there  were  also '  stealers,'  and  the  attempts 
to  tone  down  the  word  are  arbitrary  and  superfluous."  —  Meyer.  — 
G.A.] 

1  naBnpoi.  The  Cathari,  or  pure,  was  the  tide  which  the  Nova- 
nans  indirectly  assumed,  by  maintaining  that  none  were  in  God's  favor 
but  those  who  had  not  sinned  after  baptism,  or  who  were  pure  as  bap- 
tism made  them,  and  by  separating  from  the  Church  for  granting 
absolution  to  penitents.  The  schism  originated  at  Rome  in  the  mid- 
dle of  the  third  century.  Accordingly  St.  Chrysostom  in  the  text 
says,  that  whereas  all  men  need  pardon  continually,  they  who  af- 
fected to  be  clean  or  pure  without  securing  it  were,  as  being  without 
it,  of  all  men  most  unclean.  [And  he  strongly  asserts,  as  against 
the  Novations,  that  it  is  possible  to  put  away  the  guilt  of  sins  com- 
mitted after  baptism,  by  ceasing  from  the  practice  of  them  and 
working  that  which  is  good.  This  view,  however,  differs  from  the 
Protestant  view,  that  the  putting  away  the  guilt  of  sin  is  at  first  and 
always  through  God's  mercy  and  grace  in  Jesus  Christ.  —  G.  A.|  In 
the  sixth  of  eleven  new  Homilies  edited  by  the  Benedictines,  t.  xii.  p. 
35S.  he  says  that  we  may  as  well  talk  of  the  sea  being  clear  of  waves 
as  any  soul  pure  from  daily  sins,  though  not  from  transgressing 
express  commandment,  yet  from  vainglory,  willfulness,  impure 
thoughts,  coveting,  lying,  resentment,  envy,  &c,  and  he  mentions 
as  means  of  washing  away  sins,  coming  to  Cnurch,  grieving  for  them, 
confessing  them,  doing  alms,  praying,  helping  the  injured,  and  for- 
pving  injuries.  "  Let  us  provide  ourselves  with  these,"  he  proceeds, 
"every  day,  washing,  wiping  ourselves  clean,  and  withal  confessing 
ourstlves  unprofitable,"  unlike  the  Pharisee.  "  Thus  ordering  our- 
selves, we  shall  be  able  to  find  mercy  and  pardon  in  that  fearful  day, 
&c-"  This  homily  was  delivered  at  Constantinople.  [On  the  Nova- 
04m,  lee  Schaff,  Church  History,  II.,  pp.  X96, 197.  —  G.  A.] 


they  do  away  the  sin.  He  does  not  simply  de- 
sire that  we  should  work,  but  so  "  work  "  as  to 
"  labor,"  so  as  that  we  may  "  communicate  "  to 
others.  For  the  thief  indeed  works,  but  it  is  that 
which  is  evil. 

Ver.  29.  "  Let  no  corrupt  speech  proceed  out 
of  your  mouth." 

What  is  "  corrupt  speech  "  ?  That  which  is 
said  elsewhere  to  be  also  "  idle,  backbiting,  filthy 
communication,  jesting,  foolish  talking."  See 
ye  how  he  is  cutting  up  the  very  roots  of  anger? 
Lying,  theft,  unseasonable  conversation.  The 
words,  however,  "  Let  him  steal  no  more,"  he 
does  not  say  so  much  excusing  them,  as  to 
pacify  the  injured  parties,  and  to  recommend 
them  to  be  content,  if  they  never  suffer  the  like 
again.  And  well  too  does  he  give  advice  con- 
cerning conversation;4  inasmuch  as  we  shall 
pay  the  penalty,  not  for  our  deeds  only,  but 
also  for  our  words. 

"  But  such  as  is  good,"  he  proceeds,  "  for  edi- 
fying, as  the  need  may  be,  that  it  may  give  grace 
to  them  that  hear." 

That  is  to  say,  What  edifies  thy  neighbor,  that 
only  speak,  not  a  word  more.  For  to  this  end 
God  gave  thee  a  mouth  and  a  tongue,  that  thou 
mightest  give  thanks  to  Him,  that  thou  mightest 
build  up  thy  neighbor.  So  that  if  thou  destroy 
that  building,  better  were  it  to  be  silent,  and 
never  to  speak  at  all.  For  indeed  the  hands 
of  the  workmen,  if  instead  of  raising  the  walls, 
they  should  learn  to  pull  them  down,  would 
justly  deserve  to  be  cut  off.  For  so  also  saith 
the  Psalmist ;  "  The  Lord  shall  cut  off  all  flat- 
tering lips."  (Ps.  xii.  3.)  The  mouth,  —  this 
is  the  cause  of  all  evil ;  or  rather  not  the  mouth, 
but  they  that  make  an  evil  use  of  it.  From 
thence  proceed  insults,  revilings,  blasphemies, 
incentives  to  lusts,  murders,  adulteries,  thefts, 
all  have  their  origin  from  this.  And  how,  you 
will  say,  do  murders?  Because  from  insult  thou 
wilt  go  on  to  anger,  from  anger  to  blows,  from 
blows  to  murder.  And  how,  again,  adultery? 
"Such  a  woman,"  one  will  say,  "loves  thee,  she 
said  something  nice  about  thee."  This  at  once 
unstrings  thy  firmness,  and  thus  are  thy  pas- 
sions kindled  within  thee. 

Therefore  Paul  said,  "  such  as  is  good."  Since 
then  there  is  so  vast  a  flow  of  words,  he  with 
good  reason  speaks  indefinitely,  charging  us  to 
use  expressions  of  that  kind,  and  giving  us  a 
pattern  of  communication.  What  then  is  this? 
By  saying,  "  for  edifying,"  either  he  means  this, 
that  he  who  hears  thee  may  be  grateful  to  thee  : 
as,  for  instance,  a  brother  has  committed  forni- 


*  [The  clause,  "  And  well  does  he  give  instruction  concerning 
our  words  also "  (*aAo>?  &*  *ai  nepl  \6yttv  6i&da k«i),  is  omitted  in 
the  text  of  Field,  but  is  well  attested  (three  MSS.,  Sav.  text),  and 
almost  indispensable  to  the  sense  of  the  passage.  Compare  note, 
p.  8a,  on  Field's  text  in  general.  —  G.  A.] 


120 


WORKS   OF   ST.   CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  XIV. 


cation ;  do  not  make  a  display  of  the  offense, 
nor  revel  in  it ;  thou  wilt  be  doing  no  good  to 
him  that  hears  thee ;  rather,  it  is  likely,  thou 
wilt  hurt  him,  by  giving  him  a  stimulus.  Whereas, 
advise  him  what  to  do,  and  thou  art  conferring 
on  him  a  great  obligation.  Discipline  him  how 
to  keep  silence,  teach  him  to  revile  no  man,  and 
thou  hast  taught  him  his  best  lesson,  thou  wilt 
have  conferred  upon  him  the  highest  obligation. 
Discourse  with  him  on  contrition,  on  piety,  on 
almsgiving ;  all  these  things  will  soften  his  soul, 
for  all  these  things  he  will  own  his  obligation. 
Whereas  by  exciting  his  laughter,  or  by  filthy 
communication,  thou  wilt  rather  be  inflaming 
him.  Applaud  the  wickedness,  and  thou  wilt 
overturn  and  ruin  him. 

Or  else  he  means !  thus,  "  that  it  may  make 
them,  the  hearers,  full  of  grace.' '  For  as  sweet 
ointment  gives  grace  to  them  that  partake  of  it, 
so  also  does  good  speech.  Hence  it  was  more- 
over that  one  said,  "  Thy  name  is  as  ointment 
poured  forth."  (Cant.  i.  3.)  It  caused  them 
to  exhale  that  sweet  perfume.  Thou  seest  that 
what  he  continually  recommends,  he  is  saying 
now  also,  charging  every  one  according  to  his 
several  ability  to  edify  his  neighbors.  Thou 
then  that  givest  such  advice  to  others,  how 
much  more  to  thyself ! 

Ver.  30.  "And  grieve  not,"  he  adds,  "the 
Holy  Spirit  of  God." 

A  matter  this  more  terrible  and  startling,  as 
he  also  says  in  the  Epistle  to  the  Thessalonians ; 
for  there  too  he  uses  an  expression  of  this  sort. 
"  He  that  rejecteth,  rejecteth  not  man,  but  God." 
(1  Thess.  iv.  8.)  So  also  here.  If  thou  utter 
a  reproachful  word,  if  thou  strike  thy  brother, 
thou  art  not  striking  him,  thou  art  "  grieving  the 
Holy  Spirit."  And  then  is  added  further  the 
benefit  bestowed,  in  order  to  heighten  the  rebuke. 

"  And  grieve  not  the  Holy  Spirit,"  saith  He, 
"  in  whom  ye  were  sealed  unto  the  day  of  re- 
demption." 

He  it  is  who  marks  us  as  a  royal  flock ;  He, 
who  separates  us  from  all  former  things ;  He, 
who  suffers  us  not  to  lie  amongst  them  that  are 
exposed  to  the  wrath  of  God,  —  and  dost  thou 
grieve  Him?  Look  how  startling  are  his  words 
there ;  "  For  he  that  rejecteth,"  saith  he,  u  re- 
jecteth not  man,  but  God : "  and  how  cutting 
they  are  here,  "  Grieve  not  the  Holy  Spirit," 
saith  he,  "  in  whom  ye  were  sealed." 

Moral.  Let  this  seal  then  abide  upon  thy 
mouth,2  and  never  destroy  the  impression.  A 
spiritual  mouth  never  utters  a  thing  of  the  kind. 
Say  not,  "  It  is  nothing,  if  I  do  utter  an  unseemly 
word,  if  I  do  insult  such  an  one."  For  this  very 
reason  is  it  a  great  evil,  because  it  seems  to  be 

1  ["  It  means  '  that  it  may  impart  a  blessing,  bestow  a  benefit,  on 
the  hearers.'  "  —  Meyer  and  EUicott.  —  G.  A.] 

*  [This  is  probably  a  misapplication  of  Paul's  words  here.  The 
sealing  here  mentioned  is  quite  the  same  as  at  chap.  i.  13.  —  G.  A.] 


nothing.  For  things  which  seem  to  be  nothing 
are  thus  easily  thought  lightly  of;  and  those  which 
are  thought  lightly  of  go  on  increasing ;  and  those 
which  go  on  increasing  become  incurable. 

Thou  hast  a  spiritual  mouth.  Think  what 
words  thou  didst  utter  immediately  upon  being 
born,8  —  what  words  are  worthy  of  thy  mouth. 
Thou  callest  God,  "Father,"  and  dost  thou 
straightway  revile  thy  brother?  Think,  whence 
is  it  thou  callest  God,  "  Father  "  ?  Is  it  from 
nature  ?  No,  thou  couldest  never  say  so.  Is  it 
from  thy  goodness?  No,  nor  is  it  thus.  But 
whence  then  is  it?  It  is  from  pure  lovingkind- 
ness,  from  tenderness,  from  His  great  mercy. 
Whenever  then  thou  callest  God,  "Father," 
consider  not  only  this,  that  by  reviling  thou  art 
committing  things  unworthy  of  that,  thy  high 
birth,  but  also  that  it  is  of  lovingkindness  that 
thou  hast  that  high  birth.  Disgrace  it  not  then, 
after  receiving  it  from  pure  lovingkindness,  by 
showing  cruelty  towards  thy  brethren.  Dost 
thou  call  God  "Father,"  and  yet  revile?  No, 
these  are  not  the  works  of  the  Son  of  God. 
These  are  very  far  from  Him.  The  work  of  the 
Son  of  God  was  to  forgive  His  enemies,  to  pray 
for  them  that  crucified  Him,  to  shed  His  blood 
for  them  that  hated  Him.  These  are  works 
worthy  of  the  Son  of  God,  to  make  His  enemies, 
—  the  ungrateful,  the  dishonest,  the  reckless, 
the  treacherous,  —  to  make  these  brethren  and 
heirs  :  not  to  treat  them  that  are  become  breth- 
ren with  ignominy  like  slaves. 

4  Think  what  words  thy  mouth  uttered,  —  of 
what  table  these  words  are  worthy.  Think  what 
thy  mouth  touches,  what  it  tastes,  of  what  man- 
ner of  food  it  partakes  !  Dost  thou  deem  thyself 
to  be  doing  nothing  grievous  in  railing  at  thy 
brother?  How  then  dost  thou  call  him  brother? 
And  yet  if  he  be  not  a  brother,  how  sayest  thou, 
"  Our  Father  "  ?  For  the  word  "  Our  "  is  indi- 
cative of  many  persons.  Think  with  whom  thou 
standest  at  the  time  of  the  mysteries  !  With 
the  Cherubim,  with  the  Seraphim  !  The  Sera- 
phim revile  not :  no,  their  mouth  fulfills  this  one 
only  duty,  to  sing  the  Hymn  of  praise,  to 
glorify5  God.  And  how  then  shalt  thou  be 
able  to  say  with  them,  "Holy,  Holy,  Holy,"6  if 
thou  use  thy  mouth  for  reviling?  Tell  me,  I  pray. 
Suppose  there  were  a  royal  vessel,  and  that  al- 
ways full  of  royal  dainties,  and  set  apart  for  that 

8  [ivv6t)<rov  riva.  tvdetos  c$0ey£w  ptytara  Wx'ctt,  «e.r.A.  This 
evidently  refers  to  baptism  and  the  services  and  words  used  in  con- 
nection  therewith.  Bingham  says,  "  The  catechumens  did  not  learn 
the  creed  and  the  Lord's  prayer  till  immediately  before  baptism." 
And  Chry  sostom  says,  "  An  unbaptized  person  cannot  yet  call 
God  his  Father."  St.  Augustine  also  says  in  one  of  his  homilies, 
"  Now  learn  the  Lord's  prayer,  which  ye  must  repeat  eight  days 
hence,  when  ye  are  to  be  baptized."  So  they  received  it  (that  is, 
the  Lord's  prayer)  only  on  Saturday  before  Palm  Sunday,  in  order 
to  repeat  it  on  Saturday  before  Easter,  which  was  the  day  of  their 
baptism.     Antiquities*  Bk.  x.  ch.  v.  sec.  9.  — G.  A.] 

4  [This  paragraph  has  reference  to  the  celebration  of  the  Euchar- 
ist, concerning  which,  see  Chrysostom*s  Horn,  xviii.  on  9  Cor.  (viii. 
24).  — G.  A.] 

5  ayid£etp.  *  £ytor>  cytot,  iytoc* 


Homily  XV.] 


HOMILIES    ON   EPHESIANS. 


121 


purpose,  and  then  that  any  one  of  the  servants 
were  to  take  and  use  it  for  holding  dung.    Would 
he  ever  venture  again,  after  it  had  been  filled  with 
dung,  to  store  it  away  with  those  other  vessels, 
set  apart  for  those  other  uses  ?    Surely  not    Now 
railing  is  like  this,  reviling  is  like  this.     "Our 
Father ! "     But  what  ?  is  this  all  ?    Hear  also  the 
words  which   follow,  "which  art  in  Heaven." 
The  moment  thou  sayest,  "  Our  Father,  which 
art  in  Heaven,"  the  word  raises  thee  up,  it  gives 
wings  to  thy  mind,  it  points  out  to  thee  that 
thou  hast  a  Father  in  Heaven.     Do  then  noth- 
ing, speak  nothing  of  things  upon  earth.     He 
hath  set  thee  amongst  that  host  above,  He  hath 
numbered  thee  with  that  heavenly  choir.     Why 
dost  thou  drag  thyself  down?    Thou  art  stand- 
ing beside  the  royal  throne,  and  thou  revilest? 
Art  thou  not  afraid  lest  the  king  should  deem  it 
an  outrage?    Why,  if  a  servant,  even  with  us, 
beats  his  fellow-servant  or  assaults  him,  even 
though  he  do  it  justly,  yet  we  at  once  rebuke 
him,  and  deem  the  act  an  outrage ;   and  yet 
dost  thou,  who  art  standing  with  the  Cherubim 
beside  the   king's  throne,  revile   thy  brother? 
Seest  thou  not  these  holy  vessels?    Are  they 
not  used  continually  for  only  one    purpose? 
Does  any  one  ever  venture  to  use  them  for  any 
other?    Yet  art  thou  holier  than  these  vessels, 
yea,  far  holier.     Why  then  defile,  why  contami- 
nate thyself?    Standest  thou  in   Heaven,  and 
dost  thou  revile?    Hast  thou   thy  citizenship 
with  Angels,  and  dost  thou  revile?    Art  thou 
counted  worthy  the  Lord's  kiss,  and  dost  thou 
revile?    Hath  God  graced  thy  mouth  with  so 
many  and  great  things,  with  hymns  angelic,  with 
food,  not  angelic,  no,  but  more   than  angelic, 


with  His  own  kiss,  with  His  own  embrace,  and 
dost  thou  revile?  Oh,  no,  I  implore  thee. 
Vast  are  the  evils  of  Which  this  is  the  source  ; 
far  be  it  from  a  Christian  soul.  Do  I  not  con- 
vince thee  as  I  am  speaking,  do  I  not  shame 
thee  ?  Then  does  it  now  become  my  duty  to 
alarm  you.  For  hear  what  Christ  saith  :  "  Who- 
soever shall  say  to  his  brother,  Thou  fool,  shall 
be  in  danger  of  the  hell  of  fire."  (Matt.  v.  22.) 
Now  if  that  which  is  lightest  of  all  leads  to  hell, 
of  what  shall  not  he  be  worthy,  who  utters  pre- 
sumptuous words  ?  Let  us  discipline  our  mouth 
to  silence.  Great  is  the  advantage  from  this, 
great  the  mischief  from  ill  language.  We  must 
not  spend  our  riches  here.  Let  us  put  door 
and  bolt  upon  them.  Let  us  devour  ourselves 
alive  if  ever  a  vexatious  word  slip  out  of  our 
mouth.  Let  us  entreat  God,  let  us  entreat  him 
whom  we  have  reviled.  Let  us  not  think  it  be- 
neath us  to  do  so.  It  is  ourselves  we  have 
wounded,  not  him.  Let  us  apply  the  remedy, 
prayer,  and  reconciliation  with  him  whom  we 
have  reviled.  If  in  our  words  we  are  to  take 
such  forethought,  much  more  let  us  impose  laws 
upon  ourselves  in  our  deeds.  Yea,  and  if  we 
have  friends,  whoever  they  may  be,  and  they 
should  speak  evil  to  any  man  or  revile  him, 
demand  of  them  and  exact  satisfaction.  Let  us 
by  all  means  learn  that  such  conduct  is  even 
sin ;  for  if  we  learn  this,  we  shall  soon  depart 
from  it. 

Now  the  God  of  peace  keep  both  your  mind 
and  your  tongue,  and  fence  you  with  a  sure 
fence,  even  His  fear,  through  Jesus  Christ  our 
Lord,  with  whom  to  the  Father,  together  with 
the  Holy  Spirit,  be  glory  forever.     Amen. 


HOMILY    XV. 

Ephesians  iv.  31. 


"Let  all  bitterness,  and  wrath,  and  anger,  and  clamor, 
and  railing,  be  put  away  from  you,  with  all  malice." 

As  bees *  will  never  settle  down  in  an  unclean 
vessel,  —  and  this  is  the  reason  why  those  who 
are  skilled  in  these  matters  sprinkle  the  spot 
with  perfumes,  and  scented  ointments,  and  sweet 
odors;  and  the  wicker  baskets  also,  in  which 
they  will  have  to  settle  as  soon  as  they  come  out 

1  [Chrysostom  teems  to  have  observed  everything,  and  he  had 
the  "  homlletical  habit/'  as  Dr.  Shedd  calls  it  (Horn.  d.  xo8),  in  gath- 
ering material  for  illustration.  What  has  been  said  of  a  great  modern 
preacher,  may  be  said  of  Chrysostom:  "He  watched  ships  and 
tailors:  he  acquainted  himself  with  the  customs,  good  and  Dad,  of 
commercial  life:  he  curiously  inspected  a  great  variety  of  mechani- 
cal processes;  be  closely  observed  agricultural  operations,  and  the 
various  phases  of  rural  life;  he  constantly  saw  and  heard  what  oc- 
curred in  his  own  home  and  other  homes;  and  always  and  every- 
where he  asked  himself,  What  is  this  like?  what  will  this  illustrate?" 
Dr.  Broadus,  in  Preparation,  mmd  Delivery  ef  Sermons.  —  G.  A.] 


of  the  hives  they  sprinkle  with  fragrant  wines, 
and  all  other  sweets,  that  there  may  be  no  noi- 
some smell  to  annoy  them,  and  drive  them  away 
again,  —  so  in  truth  is  it  also  with  the  Holy 
Spirit.  Our  soul  is  a  sort  of  vessel  or  basket, 
capable  of  receiving  the  swarms  of  spiritual 
gifts ;  but  if  there  shall  be  within  it  gall,  and 
"bitterness,  and  wrath,"  the  swarms  will  fly 
away.  Hence  this  blessed  and  wise  husband- 
man well  and  thoroughly  cleanses  our  vessels, 
withholding  neither  knife  nor  any  other  instru- 
ment of  iron,  and  invites  us  to  this  spiritual 
swarm  ;  and  as  he  gathers  it,  he  cleanses  us  with 
prayers,  and  labors,  and  all  the  rest.  Mark  then 
how  he  cleanses  out  our  heart.  He  has  banished 
lying,  he  has  banished  anger.     Now,  again,  he  is 


122 


WORKS  OF  ;ST.   CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  XV. 


pointing  out  how  that  evil  may  be  yet  more  en- 
tirely eradicated  ;  if  we  be  not;  saith  he,  A  bitter" 
in  spirit.  For  it  is  as  is  wont  to  happen  with  our 
bile,  if  there  chance  to  be  but  little  of  it,  there 
will  be  but  little  disturbance  if  the  receptacle 
should  burst :  but  if  ever  the  strength  and  acrid- 
ness  of  this  quality  becomes  excessive,  the  ves- 
sel which  before  held  it,  containing  it  no  longer, 
is  as  if  it  were  eaten  through  by  a  scorching  fire, 
and  it  is  no  longer  able  to  hold  it  and  contain  it 
within  its  appointed  bounds,  but,  rent  asunder 
by  its  intense  sharpness,  it  lets  it  escape  and  in- 
jure the  whole  body.  And  it  is  like  some  very 
fierce  and  frightful  wild  beast,  that  has  been 
brought  into  a  city ;  as  long  as  it  is  confined  in 
the  cages  made  for  it,  however  it  may  rage,  how- 
ever it  may  roar,  it  will  be  unable  to  do  harm  to 
any  one ;  but  if  it  is  overcome  by  rage,  and 
breaks  through  the  intervening  bars,  and  is  able 
to  leap  out,  it  fills  the  city  with  all  sorts  of  con- 
fusion and  disturbance,  and  puts  everybody  to 
flight.  Such  indeed  is  the  nature  also  of  bile. 
As  long  as  it  is  kept  within  its  proper  limits,  it 
will  do  us  no  great  mischief;  but  as  soon  as  ever 
the  membrane  that  incloses  it  bursts,  and  there 
is  nothing  to  hinder  its  being  at  once  dispersed 
over  the  whole  system,  then,  I  say,  at  that  mo- 
ment, though  it  be  so  very  trifling  in  quantity,1 
yet  by  reason  of  the  inordinate  strength  of  its 
quality  it  taints  all  the  other  elements  of  our 
nature  with  its  own  peculiar  virulence.  For 
finding  the  blood,  for  instance,  near  to  it,  alike 
in  place  and  in  quality,  and  rendering  the  heat 
which  is  in  that  blood  more  acrid,  and  everything 
else  in  fac£  which  is  near  it ;  passing  from  its  just 
temperature  it  overflows  its  bounds,  turns  all  into 
gall,  and  therewith  at  once  attacks  likewise  the 
other  parts  of  the  body ;  and  thus  infusing  into 
all  its  own  poisonous  quality,  it  renders  the  man 
speechless,  and  causes  him  to  expire,  expelling 
life.  Now,  why  have  I  stated  all  these  things 
with  such  minuteness  ?•  It  is  in  order  that,  un- 
derstanding from  this  bitterness  which  is  of  the 
body  the  intolerable  evil  of  that  bitterness  which 
is  of  the  soul,  and  how  entirely  it  destroys  first 
of  all  the  very  soul  that  engenders  it,  making 
everything  bitter,  we  may  escape  experience  of 
it.  For  as  the  one  inflames  the  whole  constitu- 
tion, so  does  the  other  the  thoughts,  and  carries 
away  its  captive  to  the  abyss  of  hell.  In  order 
then  that  by  carefully  examining  these  matters 
we  may  escape  this  evil,  and  bridle  the  monster, 
or  rather  utterly  root  it  out,  let  us  hearken  to 
what  Paul  saith,  "  Let  all  bitterness  be  "  (not 


1  [This  seems  to  be  in  direct  contradiction  to  what  is  said  a  few 
lines  above,  to  wit,  "  If  there  chance  to  be  but  little  of  it,  there  will 
be  but  little  disturbance  if  the  receptacle  should  burst."  The  text  in 
the  former  passage  is  in  great  uncertainty,  however,  and  confusion. 
Field  calls  it  a  locus  conclamatus.  Perhaps,  if  the  true  text  of  that 
passage  could  be  recovered,  it  would  not  be  in  conflict  with  the  pas- 
sage here.  —  G.  A.J 


destroyed,  but)  "  put  away "  from  you.  For 
what  need  have  I  of  trouble  to  restrain  it,  what 
necessity  is  there  to  keep  watch  on  a  monster, 
when  it  is  in  my  power  to  expel  him  from  my 
soul,  to  remove  him  and  drive  him  out,  as  it 
were,  into  banishment?  Let  us  hearken  then 
to  Paul  when  he  saith,  "  Let  all  bitterness  be 
put  away  from  you."  But,  ah,  the  perversity  that 
possesses  us !  Though  we  ought  to  do  every- 
thing to  effect  this,  yet  are  there  some  so  truly 
senseless  as  to  congratulate  themselves  upon  this 
evil,  and  to  pride  themselves  upon  it,  and  to 
glory  in  it,  and  who  are  envied  by  others.  "Such 
a  one,"  say  they,  "  is  a  bitter  man,  he  is  a 
scorpion,  a  serpent,  a  viper."  They  look  upon 
him  as  one  to  be  feared.  But  wherefore,  good 
man,  dost  thou  fear  the  bitter  person  ?  "  I  fear," 
you  say,  "  lest  he  injure  me,  lest  he  destroy  me ; 
I  am  not  proof  against  his  malice,  I  am  afraid 
lest  he  should  take  me  who  am  a  simple  man, 
and  unable  to  foresee  any  of  his  schemes,  and 
throw  me  into  his  snares,  and  entangle  us  in  the 
toils  which  he  has  set  to  deceive  us."  Now  I 
cannot  but  smile.  And  why  forsooth?  Because 
these  are  the  arguments  of  children,  who  fear 
things  which  are  not  to  be  feared.  Surely  there 
is  nothing  we  ought  so  to  despise,  nothing  we 
ought  so  to  laugh  to  scorn,  as  a  bitter  and  ma- 
licious man.  For  there  is  nothing  so  powerless ' 
as  bitterness.  It  makes  men  fools  and  senseless. 
Do  ye  not  see  that  malice  is  blind  ?  Have  ye 
never  heard,  that  he  that  diggeth  a  pit  for  his 
neighbors,  diggeth  it  for  himself?  How,  it  may  be 
said,  ought  we  not  to  fear  a  soul  full  of  tumult? 
If  indeed  we  are  to  fear  the  bitter  in  the  same  way 
as  we  fear  evil  spirits,  and  fools  and  madmen,  (for 
they  indeed  do  everything  at  random,)  I  grant  it 
myself;  but  if  we  are  to  fear  them  as  men  skill- 
ful in  the  conduct  of  affairs,  that  never.  For 
nothing  is  so  necessary  for  the  proper  conduct 
of  affairs  as  prudence ;  and  there  is  no  greater 
hindrance  to  prudence  than  wickedness,  and 
malice,  and  hollowness.  Look  at  bilious  per- 
sons, how  unsightly  they  are,  with  all  their  bloom 
withered  away.  How  weak  they  are,  and  puny, 
and  unfit  for  anything.  So  also  are  souls  of  this 
nature.  What  else  is  wickedness,  but  a  jaundice 
of  the  soul?  Wickedness  then  has  no  strength 
in  it,  indeed  it  has  not.  Have  ye  a  mind  that  I 
again  make  what  I  am  saying  plain  to  you  by  an 
instance,  by  setting  before  you  the  portraits  of  a 
treacherous  and  a  guileless  man  ?  Absalom  was 
a  treacherous  man,  and  "  stole  ail  men's  hearts." 
(2  Sam.  xv.  6.)  And  observe  how  great  was  his 
treachery.  "  He  went  about,"  it  saith,  "  and 
said,  'Hast  thou  no  judgment?'"8  wishing  to 


*  [Compare  Prov.  xxv.  28.  —  G.  A.] 

3  \\Lt\  «<rri  <roi  ftptatc ;  but  Sept.  (2  Sam.  xv.  3)  has  6  okovmc  ovc 
coti  <rot  wapa  tov  /BaatAeftiv,  which  is  well  rendered  by  the  Rev.  Ver., 
"  But  there  is  no  man  deputed  of  the  king  to  hear  thee."  —  G.  A.] 


Homily  XV.] 


HOMILIES   ON    EPHESIANS. 


123 


conciliate  every  one  to  himself.     But  David  was 
guileless.    What  then  ?    Look  at  the  end  of  them 
both,  look,  how  full  of  utter  madness  was  the 
former!    For  inasmuch  as  he  looked  solely  to 
the  hurt  of  his  father,  in  all  other  things  he  was 
blinded.     But   not  so   David.     For   "he   that 
walketh  uprightly,  walketh  surely"  (Prov.  x.  9) ; 
and  reasonably ;  he  is  one  that  manages  nothing 
over-subtilely,  the  man  who  devises  no  evil.    Let 
us  listen  then  to  the  blessed  Paul,  and  let  us  pity, 
yea,  let  us  weep  for  the  bitter-minded,  and  let  us 
practice  every  method,  let  us  do  everything  to 
extirpate  this  vice  from  their  souls.     For  how  is 
it  not  absurd,  that  when  there  is  bile  within  us, 
(though   that   indeed   is   a   useful  element,  for 
without  bile  a  man  cannot  possibly  exist,  that 
bile,  I  mean,  which  is  an  element  of  his  nature,) 
how  then,  I  say,  is  it  not  absurd  that  we  should 
do  all  we  can  to  get  rid  of  this,  though  we  are  so 
highly  benefited  by  it ;  and  yet  that  we  should 
do  nothing,  nor  take  any  pains,  to  get  rid  of  that 
which  is  in  the  soul,  though  it  is  in  no  case  ben- 
eficial, but  even  in  the  highest  degree  injurious. 
He  that  thinketh  that  he  is  "  wise  among  you," 
saith  he,  "  let  him  become  a  fool,  that  he  may 
become  wise."    (1   Cor.  iii.  18.)    Hearken  too 
again  to  what  Luke  saith,  "  They  did  take  their 
food  with  gladness  and  singleness  of  heart,  prais- 
ing God,  and  having  favor  with  all  the  people." 
(Acts  ii.  46,  47.)   Why,  do  we  not  see  even  now 
that  the  simple  and  guileless  enjoy  the  common 
esteem  of  all  ?    No  one  envies  such  an  one  when 
he  is  in  prosperity,  no  one  tramples  upon  him 
when  he  is  in  adversity,  but  all  rejoice  with  him 
when  he  does  well,  and  grieve  with  him  in  mis- 
fortune.    Whereas  whenever  a  bitter  man  fares 
prosperously,  one  and  all  lament  it,  as  though 
some  evil  thing  happened ;  but  if  he  is  unfor- 
tunate, one  and  all  rejoice.     Let  us  then  pity 
them,  for  they  have  common  enemies  all  over 
the  world.     Jacob  was  a  guileless  man,  yet  he 
overcame  the  treacherous  Esau.     "  For  into  a 
malicious  soul  wisdom  shall  not  enter."  (Wisd. 
i.  4.)  "  Let  all  bitterness  be  put  away  from  you." 
Let  not  even  a  remnant  remain,  for  it  will  be 
sure,  if  stirred,  as  if  from  a  smouldering  brand, 
to  turn  all  within  to  an  entire  blaze.    Let  us  then 
distinctly  understand   what    this    bitterness    is. 
Take,  for  example,  the  hollow-hearted  man,  the 
crafty,  the  man  who  is  on  the  watch  to  do  mis- 
chief, the  man  of  evil  suspicion.    From  him  then 
"wrath  "  and  "  anger  "  are  ever  produced  ;  for  it 
is  not  possible  for  a  soul  like  this  to  be  in  tran- 
quillity, but   the   very   root   of  "  anger "    and 
"wrath"   is    "bitterness."     The   man   of   this 
character  is  both  sullen,  and  never  unbends  his 
soul ;  he  is  always  moody,  always  gloomy.     For 
as  I  was  saying,  they  themselves  are  the  first  to 
reap  the  fruit  of  their  own  evil  ways. 
"And  clamor,"  he  adds. 


What  now,  and  dost  thou  take  away  clamor 
also?  Yes,  for  the  mild  man  must  needs  be  of 
such  a  character,  because  clamor  carries  anger, 
as  a  horse  his  rider;  trip  the  horse,  and  you 
will  throw  the  rider. 

Moral.  This  let  women  above  all  attend  to, 
.them  who  on  every  occasion  cry  aloud  and  bawL 
There  is  but  one  thing  in  which  it  is  useful  to 
cry  aloud,  in  preaching  and  in  teaching.  But 
in  no  other  case  whatever,  no,  not  even  in  prayer. 
And  if  thou  wouldest  learn  a  practical  lesson, 
never  cry  aloud  at  all,  and  then  wilt  thou  never 
be  angry  at  all.  Behold  a  way  to  keep  your 
temper ;  for  as  it  is  not  possible  that  the  man 
that  does  not  cry  out  should  be  enraged,  so  is 
it  not  that  the  man  who  does  cry  out  should  be 
otherwise  than  enraged.  For  tell  me  not  of  a 
man  being  implacable,  and  revengeful,  and  of 
pure  natural  bitterness,  and  natural  choler.  We 
are  now  speaking  of  the  sudden  paroxysm  of 
this  passion. 

It  contributes  then  no  little  to  this  end,  to 
discipline  the  soul  never  to  raise  the  voice  and 
cry  aloud  at  all.  Cut  off  clamor,  and  thou  wilt 
clip  the  wings  of  anger,  thou  dost  repress  the 
first  rising  of  the  heart.  For  as  it  is  impossible 
for  a  man  to  wrestle  without  lifting  up  his  hands, 
so  is  it  not  possible  that  he  should  be  entangled 
in  a  quarrel  without  lifting  up  his  voice.  Bind 
the  hands  of  the  boxer,  and  then  bid  him  strike. 
He  will  be  unable  to  do  so.  So  likewise  will 
wrath  be  disarmed.  But  clamor  raises  it,  even 
where  it  does  not  exist.  And  hence  it  is  espe- 
cially that  the  female  sex  are  so  easily  overtaken 
in  it.  Women,  whenever  they  are  angry  with 
their  maid-servants,  fill  the  whole  house  with 
their  own  clamor.  And  oftentimes  too,  if  the 
house  happens  to  be  built  along  a  narrow  street, 
then  all  the  passers-by  hear  the  mistress  scold- 
ing, and  the  maid  weeping  and  wailing.  What 
can  possibly  be  more  disgraceful  than  the  sound 
of  those  waitings  ? 1  What  in  the  world  has  hap- 
pened there  ?  All  the  women  round  immediately 
peep  in  and  one  of  them  says,  "  Such  a  one  is 
beating  her  own  maid."  Whatever  can  be  more 
shameless  than  this?  "What  then,  ought  one 
not  to  strike  at  all?"  No,  I  say  not  so,  (for  it 
must  be  done,)  but  then  it  must  be  neither  fre- 
quently, nor  immoderately,  nor  for  any  wrongs 
of  thine  own,  as  I  am  constantly  saying,  nor  for 
any  little  failure  in  her  service,  but  only  if  she 
is  doing  harm  to  her  own  soul.  If  thou  chastise 
her  for  a  fault  of  this  kind,  all  will  applaud,  and 
there  will  be  none  to  upbraid  thee ;  but  if  thou 
do  it  for  any  reasons  of  thine  own,  all  will  con- 
demn thy  cruelty  and  harshness.  And  what  is 
more  base  than  all,  there  are  some  so  fierce  and 
so  savage  as  to  lash  them  to  such  a  degree,  that 

1  [We  have  here  followed  the  text  of  three  codices  as  against  the 
emendations  of  Field,  Savile,  and  the  Benedictine  ed.  —  G.  A.] 


124 


WORKS   OF   ST.  CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  XV. 


the  bruises  will  not  disappear  with  the  day. 
For  they  will  strip  the  damsels,  and  call  their 
husbands  for  the  purpose,  and  oftentimes  tie 
them  to  the  pallets.  Alas !  at  that  moment, 
tell  me,  does  no  recollection  of  hell  come  over 
thee?  What?  dost  thou  strip  thy  handmaid, 
and  expose  her  to  thy  husband  ?  And  art  thou 
not  ashamed,  lest  he  should  condemn  thee  for 
it?  And  then  dost  thou  exasperate  him  yet  more, 
and  threaten  to  put  her  in  chains,  having  first 
taunted  the  wretched  and  pitiable  creature  with 
ten  thousand  reproachful  names,  and  called  her 
"Thessalian  witch,1  runaway,  and  prostitute  "? 

For  her  passion  allows  her  not  to  spare  even 
her  own  mouth,  but  she  looks  to  one  single 
object,  how  she  may  wreak  her  vengeance  on 
the  other,  even  though  she  disgrace  herself. 
And  then  after  all  these  things  forsooth,  she 
will  sit  in  state  like  any  tyrant,  and  call  her 
children,  and  summon  her  foolish  husband,  and 
treat  him  as  a  hangman.  Ought  these  things 
to  take  place  in  the  houses  of  Christians? 
"  Aye,"  say  ye,  "  but  slaves  are  a  troublesome, 
audacious,  impudent,  incorrigible  race."  True, 
I  know  it  myself,  but  there  are  other  ways  to 
keep  them  in  order;  by  terrors,  by  threats,  by 
words ;  which  may  both  touch  her  more  power- 
fully, and  save  thee  from  disgrace.  Thou  who 
art  a  free  woman  hast  uttered  foul  words, 
and  dost  thou  not  disgrace  thyself  more  than 
her?  Then  if  she  shall  have  occasion  to  go 
out  to  the  bath,  there  are  bruises  on  her  back 
when  she  is  naked,  and  she  carries  about  with 
her  the  marks  of  thy  cruelty.  "  But,"  say  ye, 
"the  whole  tribe  of  slaves  is  intolerable  if  it 
meet  with  indulgence."  True,  I  know  it  my- 
self. But  then,  as  I  was  saying,  correct  them 
in  some  other  way,  not  by  the  scourge  only,  and 
by  terror,  but  even  by  flattering  them,  and  by 
acts  of  kindness.  If  she  is  a  believer,  she  is  thy 
sister.  Consider  that  thou  art  her  mistress,  and 
that  she  ministers  unto  thee.  If  she  be  intem- 
perate, cut  off  the  occasions  of  drunkenness ; 
call  thy  husband,  and  admonish  her.  Or  dost 
thou  not  feel  how  disgraceful  a  thing  it  is  for  a 
'.voman  to  be  beaten  ?  They  at  least  who  have 
enacted  ten  thousand  punishments  for  men,  — 
the  stake,  and  the  rack,  —  will  scarcely  ever 
hang  a  woman,  but  limit  men's  anger  to  smiting 
her  on  the  cheek;  and  so  great  respect  have 
they  observed  towards  the  sex,  that  not  even 
when  there  is  absolute  necessity  have  they  often 
hung  a  woman,  if  she  happen  to  be  pregnant. 
For  it  is  a  disgrace  for  a  man  to  strike  a  woman ; 
and  if  for  a  man,  much  more  for  one  of  her  own 
sex.     It  is  moreover  by  these  things  that  women 

1  Vid.  Aristoph.  Nttb.  743,  yvvaxKa  fapfjujjciS'  ct  irpta^icvoc  ©«t- 
raAi}f.  Schol.,  MXf*  «cal  vvv  <^apMaxi6c?  **  BcrraAai  mxXovvrat. 
[What  a  fearful  picture  of  the  cruelties  of  the  mistresses  of  Chrysos- 
tora's  day!— G.  A.] 


become  odious  to  their  husbands.  "  What  then," 
ye  may  say,  "if  she  shall  act  the  harlot?" 
Marry  her  to  a  husband ;  cut  off  the  occasions 
of  fornication,  suffer  her  not  to  be  too  high  fed. 
"  What  then,  if  she  shall  steal?  "  Take  care  of 
her,  and  watch  her,  —  "  Extravagant ! "  thou 
wilt  say ;  "  What,  am  I  to  be  her  keeper?  How 
absurd  ! "  And  why,  I  pray,  art  thou  not  to  be 
her  keeper?  Has  she  not  the  same  kind  of  soul 
as  thou?  Has  she  not  been  vouchsafed  the 
same  privileges  by  God  ?  Does  she  not  partake 
of  the  same  table?  Does  she  not  share  with 
thee  the  same  high  birth?  "But  what  then," 
ye  will  say,  "  if  she  shall  be  a  railer,  or  a  gossip, 
or  a  drunkard?"  Yet,  how  many  free  women 
are  such  ?  Now,  with  all  the  failings  of  women 
God  hath  charged  men  to  bear :  only,  He  saith, 
let  not  a  woman  be  an  harlot,  but  every  other 
failing  besides  bear  with.  Yea,  be  she  drunk- 
ard, or  railer,  or  gossip,  or  evil- eyed,  or  extrava- 
gant, and  a  squanderer  of  thy  substance,  thou 
hast  her  for  the  partner  of  thy  life.  Train  and 
restrain  her.  Necessity  is  upon  thee.  It  is  for 
this  thou  art  the  head.  Regulate  her  therefore, 
do  thy  own  part.  Yea,  and  if  she  remain  incor- 
rigible, yea,  though  she  steal,  take  care  of  thy 
goods,  and  do  not  punish  her  so  much.  If  she 
be  a  gossip,  silence  her.  This  is  the  very  highest 
philosophy. 

Now,  however,  some  are  come  to  such  a 
height  of  indecency  as  to  uncover  the  head,  and 
to  drag  their  maid-servants  by  the  hair.  —  Why 
do  ye  all  blush?2  I  am  not  addressing  myself 
to  all,  but  to  those  who  are  carried  away  into 
such  brutal  conduct.  Paul  saith,  "  Let  not  a 
woman  be  uncovered."  (i  Cor.  xi.  5-15.) 
And  dost  thou  then  entirely  strip  off  her  head- 
dress ?  Dost  thou  see  how  thou  art  doing  out- 
rage to  thyself?  If  indeed  she  makes  her  ap- 
pearance to  thee  with  her  head  bare,  thou  callest 
it  an  insult.  And  dost  thou  say  that  there  is 
nothing  shocking  when  thou  barest  it  thyself? 
Then  ye  will  say,  "  What  if  she  be  not  corrected  ?  " 
Chasten  her  then  with  the  rod  and  with  stripes. 
And  yet  how  many  failings  hast  thou  also  thy- 
self, and  yet  thou  art  not  corrected  !  These 
things  I  am  saying  not  for  their  sakes,  but  for 
the  sake  of  you  free-women,  that  ye  do  nothing 
so  unworthy,  nothing  to  disgrace  you,  that  ye  do 
yourselves  no  wrong.3  If  thou  wilt  learn  this 
lesson  in  thy  household  in  dealing  with  thy 
maid-servant,  and  not  be  harsh  but  gentle  and 
forbearing,  much  more  wilt  thou  be  so  in  thy 
behavior  to  thy  husband.  For  she  who,  though 
having  authority,  does  nothing  of  the  sort,  will 
do  it  much  less  where  there  is  a  check.     So  that 


1  [This  is  direct  preaching.  Some  would  call  it  personal.  But 
as  Daniel  Webster  said  of  preaching,  so  ought  we  make  it  a  per- 
sonal matter,  a  personal  matter,  a  personal  matter."  —  G.  A.1 

8  [And  what  a  graceful  and  conciliatory  turn  he  gives  his  dis- 
course here!  — G.  A.J 


Howly  XVI.] 


HOMILIES   ON   EPHESIANS. 


"5 


the  discipline  employed  about  your  maid-ser- 
vants, will  be  of  the  greatest  service  to  you  in 
gaining  the  goodwill  of  your  husbands.  "  For 
with  what  measure  ye  mete,"  He  saith,  "  it  shall 
be  measured  unto  you."  (Matt.  vii.  2.)  Set  a 
bridle  upon  thy  mouth.  If  thou  art  disciplined 
to  bear  bravely  with  a  servant  when  she  answers 
back,  thou  wilt  not  be  annoyed  with  the  inso- 
lence of  an  equal,  and  in  being  above  annoy- 
ance, wilt  have  attained  to  the  highest  philoso- 
phy. But  some  there  are  who  add  even  oaths, 
but  there  is  nothing  more  shocking  than  a  woman 
so  enraged.  But  what  again,  ye  will  say,  if  she 
dress  gayly?  Why  then,  forbid  this ;  thou  hast 
my  consent ;  but  check  it  by  first  beginning 
with  thyself,  not  so  much  by  fear  as  by  example. 
Be  in  everything  thyself  a  perfect  pattern. 

"  And   let   railing,"  saith   he,  "  be   put   away 
from  you."     Observe  the  progress  of  mischief. 
Bitterness  produces  wrath,  wrath  anger,  anger 
clamor,  clamor  railing,  that  is,  revilings;  next 
from  evil-speaking  it  goes  on  to   blows,  from 
blows  to  wounds,  from  wounds  to  death.     Paul, 
however,  did  not  wish  to  mention  any  of  these, 
but  only  this,  "  let  this,"  saith  he,  "  be  put  away 
from  you,  with  all  malice."  *     What  is  "  with  all 
malice"?     It  ends  with   this.     For  there   are 
some,  like  those  dogs  that  bite  secretly,  which 
do  not  bark  at  all  at  those  that  come  near  them, 
nor  are  angry,  but  which  fawn,  and  display  a 
gentle  aspect ;  but  when  they  catch  us  off  our 
guard,  will  fix  their  teeth  in  us.    These  are  more 
dangerous  than  those  that  take  up  open  enmity. 
Now  since  there  are  men  too  that  are  dogs,  who 
neither  cry  out,  nor  fly  in  a  passion,  nor  threaten 
us  when   they  are  offended,  yet  in  secret  are 
weaving  plots,  and  contriving  ten  thousand  mis- 
chiefs, and  revenging  themselves  not  in  words 
but  in  deeds ;  he  hints  at  these.   Let  those  things 
be  put  away  from  you,  saith  he,  "  with  all  mal- 
ice."   Do  not  spare  thy  words,  and  then  revenge 
thyself  in  acts.     My  purpose  in  chastising  my 


tongue  and  curtailing  its  clamor,  is  to  prevent 
its  kindling  up  a  more  violent  blaze.  But  if 
thou  without  any  clamor  art  doing  the  same 
thing,  and  art  cherishing  the  fire  and  the  live 
coals  within,  where  is  the  good  of  thy  silence  ? 
Dost  thou  not  know  that  -those  conflagrations 
are  the  most  destructive  of  all  which  are  fed 
within,  and  appear  not  to  those  that  are  without  ? 
And  that  those  wounds  are  the  deadliest  which 
never  break  out  to  the  surface  ;  and  those  fevers 
the  worst  which  burn  up  the  vitals?  So  also  is 
this  anger  the  most  dangerous  that  preys  upon 
the  soul.  But  let  this  too  be  put  away  from  you, 
saith  he,  "  with  all  malice,"  of  every  kind  and 
degree,  great  and  little.  Let  us  then  hearken 
to  him,  let  us  cast  out  all  "  bitterness  and  all 
malice,"  that  we  "grieve  not  the  Holy  Spirit." 
Let  us  destroy  all  bitterness ;  let  us  cut  it  up  by 
the  very  roots.  Nothing  good,  nothing  health- 
ful, can  ever  come  from  a  bitter  soul ;  nothing 
but  misfortunes,  nothing  but  tears,  nothing  but 
weeping  and  wailing.  Do  ye  not  see  those 
beasts  that  roar  or  cry  out,  how  we  turn  away 
from  them  ;  the  lion,  for  instance,  and  the  bear  ? 
But  not  so  from  the  sheep  ;  for  there  is  no  roar- 
ing, but  a  mild  and  gentle  voice.  And  so  again 
with  musical  instruments,  those  which  are  loud 
and  harsh  are  the  most  unpleasant  to  the  ear, 
such  as  the  drum  and  trumpet ;  whereas  those 
which  are  not  so,  but  are  soothing,  these  are 
pleasant,  as  the  flute  and  lyre  and  pipe.  Let 
us  then  prepare  our  soul  so  as  never  to  cry 
aloud,  and  thus  shall  we  be  enabled  also  to  gain 
the  mastery  over  our  anger.  And  when  we  have 
cut  out  this,  we  ourselves  shall  be  the  first  to 
enjoy  the  calm,  and  we  shall  sail  into  that  peace- 
ful haven,  which  God  grant  we  may  all  attain,  in 
Jesus  Christ  our  Lord,  with  whom,  together  with 
the  Holy  Ghost,  be  unto  the  Father,  glory, 
might,  and  honor,  now,  and  ever,  and  through- 
out all  ages.     Amen. 


HOMILY    XVI. 

Ephesians  iv.  31,  32. 


"Let  all  bitterness,  and  wrath,  and  anger,  and  clamor, 
and  railing  be  put  away  from  you,  with  all  malice. 
And  be  ye  kind  one  to  another,  tender-hearted,  for- 
giving each  other,  even  as  God  also  in  Christ  forgave 
you." 

If  we  are  to  attain  to  the  kingdom  of  Heaven, 
it  is  not  enough  to  abandon  wickedness,  but  there 

1  r««jcia:  *'  •  Malice,'  the  genus  to  which  all  the  above-mentioned 
vices  belong,  or  rather  the  active  principle  to  which  they  are  all  due, 
—animi  Zrmvitas,  humanitati  tt  equitati  cj>j>osita  (Calvin)."  — 
H&ott—G.A.] 


must  be  abundant  practice  of  that  which  is  good 
also.  To  be  delivered  indeed  from  hell  we  must 
abstain  from  wickedness ;  but  to  attain  to  the 
kingdom  we  must  cleave  fast  to  virtue.2  Know 
ye  not  that  even  in  the  tribunals  of  the  heathen, 
when  examination  is  made  of  men's  deeds,  and 
the  whole  city  is  assembled,  this  is  the  case? 

1  [This  way  of  putting  it  would  imply  that  there  is  an  intermedi- 
ate place,  neither  hell  nor  heaven,  which  Chrysostom  felt;  and  so  he 
corrects  himself  a  little  below.  This  does  not  appear  to  be  a  trick  of 
the  orator.  —  G.  A.] 


126 


WORKS   OF   ST.    CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  XVI. 


Nay,  there  was  an  ancient  custom  amongst  the 
heathen,  to  crown  with  a  golden  crown,1  —  not 
the  man  who  had  done  no  evil  to  his  country, 
for  this  were  in  itself  no  more  than  enough  to 
save  him  from  punishment ;  —  but  him  who  had 
displayed  great  public  services.  It  was  thus  that 
a  man  was  to  be  advanced  to  this  distinction. 
But  what  I  had  especial  need  to  say,  had,  I  know 
not  how,  well  nigh  escaped  me.  Accordingly 
having  made  some  slight  correction  of  what 
I  have  said,  I  retract  the  first  portion  of  this 
division. 

For  as  I  was  saying  that  the  departure  from 
evil  is  sufficient  to  prevent  our  falling  into  hell, 
whilst  I  was  speaking,  there  stole  upon  me  a 
certain  awful  sentence,  which  does  not  merely 
bring  down  vengeance  on  them  that  dare  to 
commit  evil,  but  which  also  punishes  those  who 
omit  any  opportunity  of  doing  good.  What  sen- 
tence then  is  this?  When  the  day,  the  dreadful 
day,  He  saith,  was  arrived,  and  the  set  time  was 
come,  the  Judge,  seated  on  the  judgment  seat, 
set  the  sheep  on  the  right  hand  and  the  goats  on 
the  left;  and  to  the  sheep  He  said,  "Come,  ye 
blessed  of  My  Father,  inherit  the  kingdom  pre- 
pared for  you  from  the  foundation  of  the  world  : 
for  I  was  an  hungered,  and  ye  gave  me  meat." 
(Matt.  xxv.  34.)  So  far,  well.  For  it  was  meet 
that  for  such  compassion  they  should  receive 
this  reward.  That  those,  however,  who  did  not 
communicate  of  their  own  possessions  to  them 
that  were  in  need,  that  they  should  be  punished, 
not  merely  by  the  loss  of  blessings,  but  by  being 
also  sent  to  hell-fire,  what  just  reason,  I  say,  can 
there  be  in  this?  Most  certainly  this  too  will 
have  a  fair  show  of  reason,  no  less  than  the  other 
case  :  for  we  are  hence  instructed,  that  they  that 
have  done  good  shall  enjoy  those  good  things 
that  are  in  heaven,  but  they,  who,  though  they 
have  no  evil  indeed  to  be  charged  with,  yet  have 
omitted  to  do  good,  will  be  hurried  away  with 
them  that  have  done  evil  into  hell-fire.  Unless 
one  might  indeed  say  this,  that  the  very  not 
doing  good  is  a  part  of  wickedness,  inasmuch  as 
it  comes  of  indolence,  and  indolence  is  a  part  of 
vice,  or  rather,  not  a  part,  but  a  source  and 
baneful  root  of  it.  For  idleness  is  the  teacher 
of  all  vice.  Let  us  not  then  foolishly  ask  such 
questions  as  these,  what  place  shall  he  occupy, 
who  has  done  neither  any  evil  nor  any  good? 
For  the  very  not  doing  good,  is  in  itself  doing 
evil.  Tell  me,  if  thou  hadst  a  servant,  who 
should  neither  steal,  nor  insult,  nor  contradict 
thee,  who  moreover  should  keep  from  drunken- 
ness and  every  other  kind  of  vice,  and  yet  should 
sit  perpetually  in  idleness,  and  not  doing  one  of 
those  duties  which  a  servant  owes  to  his  master, 

1  [The  Athenians,  for  example,  bestowed  a  golden  crown  upon 
Demosthenes,  and  his  celebrated  oration  "  On  the  Crown  "  was  oc- 
casioned by  this  custom  to  which  Chrysostom  refers.] 


wouldest  thou  not  chastise  him,  wouldest  thou 
not  put  him  to  the  rack?  Tell  me.  And  yet 
forsooth  he  has  done  no  evil.  No,  but  this  is  in 
itself  doing  evil.  But  let  us,  if  you  please,  apply 
this  to  other  cases  in  life.  Suppose  then  that  of 
an  husbandman.  He  does  no  damage  to  our 
property,  he  lays  no  plots  against  us,  and  he  is 
not  a  thief,  he  only  ties  his  hands  behind  him, 
and  sits  at  home,  neither  sowing,  nor  cutting  a 
single  furrow,  nor  harnessing  oxen  to  the  yoke, 
nor  looking  after  a  vine,  nor  in  fact  discharging 
any  one  of  those  other  labors  required  in  hus- 
bandry. Now,  I  say,  should  we  not  punish  such 
a  man?  And  yet  he  has  done  no  wrong  to  any 
one ;  we  have  no  charge  to  make  against  him. 
No,  but  by  this  very  thing  has  he  done  wrong. 
He  does  wrong  in  that  he  does  not  contribute 
his  own  share  to  the  common  stock  of  good. 
And  what  again,  tell  me,  if  every  single  artisan 
or  mechanic  were  only  to  do  no  harm,  say  to 
one  of  a  different  craft,  —  nay,  were  to  do  no 
harm,  even  to  one  of  his  own,  but  only  were  to 
be  idle,  would  not  our  whole  life  at  that  rate  be 
utterly  at  an  end  and  perish?  Do  you  wish  that 
I  yet  further  extend  the  discourse  with  reference 
to  the  body  also  ?  Let  the  hand  then  neither 
strike  the  head,  nor  cut  out  the  tongue,  nor 
pluck  out  the  eye,  nor  do  any  evil  of  this  sort, 
but  only  remain  idle,  and  not  render  its  due  ser- 
vice to  the  body  at  large ;  would  it  not  be  more 
fitting  that  it  should  be  cut  off,  than  that  one 
should  carry  it  about  in  idleness,  and  a  detri- 
ment to  the  whole  body?  And  what  too,  if  the 
mouth,  without  either  devouring  the  hand,  or 
biting  the  breast,  should  nevertheless  fail  in  all 
its  proper  duties ;  were  it  not  far  better  that  it 
should  be  stopped  up  ?  If  therefore  both  in  the 
case  of  servants,  and  of  mechanics,  and  of  the 
whole  body,  not  only  the  commission  of  evil, 
but  also  the  omission  of  what  is  good,  is  great 
unrighteousness,  much  more  will  this  be  the  case 
in  regard  to  the  body  of  Christ. 

Moral.  And  therefore  the  blessed  Paul  also, 
in  leading  us  away  from  sin,  leads  us  on  to  vir- 
tue. For  where,  tell  me,  is  the  advantage  of  all 
the  thorns  being  cut  out,  if  the  good  seeds  be 
not  sown  ?  For  our  labor,  remaining  unfinished, 
will  come  round  and  end  in  the  same  mischief. 
And  therefore  Paul  also,  in  his  deep  and  affec- 
tionate anxiety  for  us,  does  not  let  his  admoni- 
tions stop  at  eradicating  and  destroying  evil 
tempers,  but  urges  us  at  once  to  evidence  the 
implanting  of  good  ones.  For  having  said,  "  Let 
all  bitterness,  and  wrath,  and  clamor,  and  rail- 
ing be  put  away  from  you,  with  all  malice,"  he 
adds,  "  And  be 2  ye  kind  one  to  another,  tender- 
hearted, forgiving  each  other."     For  all  these 

*  ["Not 'be'  («<rre),  but  'become*  (yiV€<rO«),'  in  keeping  with 
the  apBrjriMt  aij>'  v/uuut',  *  let  it  be  put  away  '  from  you."  —  Meyer.— 

G.  A.J 


Homily  XVI.] 


HOMILIES   ON   EPHESIANS. 


127 


are  habits  and  dispositions.  And  our  abandon- 
ment of  the  one  thing  is  not  sufficient  to  settle 
us  in  the  habitual  practice  of  the  other,  but 
there  is  need  again  of  some  fresh  impulse,  and 
of  an  effort  not  less  than  that  made  in  our  avoid- 
ance of  evil  dispositions,  in  order  to  our  acquir- 
ing good  ones.  For  so  in  the  case  of  the  body, 
the  black  man,  if  he  gets  rid  of  this  complexion, 
does  not  straightway  become  white.  Or  rather 
let  us  not  conduct  our  discourse  with  an  argu- 
ment from  physical  subjects,  but  draw  our  ex- 
ample from  those  which  concern  moral  choice. 
He  who  is  not  our  enemy,  is  not  necessarily  our 
friend ;  but  there  is  an  intermediate  state,  neither 
of  enmity  nor  of  friendship,  which  is  perhaps 
that  in  which  the  greater  part  of  mankind  stand 
toward  us.  He  that  is  not  crying  is  not  there- 
fore necessarily  also  laughing,  but  there  is  a  state 
between  the  two.  And  so,  I  say,  is  the  case 
here.  He  that  is  not  "  bitter  "  is  not  necessarily 
"kind,"  neither  is  he  that  is  not  "wrathful" 
necessarily  "  tender-hearted  "  ;  but  there  is  need 
of  a  distinct  effort,  in  order  to  acquire  this  ex- 
cellence. And  now  look  how  the  blessed  Paul, 
according  to  the  rules  of  the  best  husbandry, 
thoroughly  cleans  and  works  the  land  entrusted 
to  him  by  the  Husbandman.  He  has  taken 
away  the  bad  seeds ;  he  now  exhorts  us  to  retain 
the  good  plants.  "  Be  ye  kind,"  saith  he,  for  .if, 
when  the  thorns  are  plucked  up,  the  held  re- 
mains idle,  it  will  again  bear  unprofitable  weeds. 
And  therefore  there  is  need  to  preoccupy  its  un- 
occupied and  fallow  state  by  the  setting  of  good 
seeds  and  plants.  He  takes  away  "  anger,"  he 
puts  in  "  kindness  " ;  he  takes  away  "  bitterness," 
he  puts  in  "  tender-heartedness  "  ;  he  extirpates 
"malice"  and  "railing,"  he  plants  "forgive- 
ness "  in  their  stead.  For  the  expression,  "for- 
giving one  another,"  is  this;  be  disposed,  he 
means,  to  forgive  one  another.  And  this  for- 
giveness is  greater  than  that  which  is  shown  in 
money-matters.  For  he  indeed  who  forgives  a 
debt  of  money  to  him  that  has  borrowed  of  him, 
does,  it  is  true,  a  noble  and  admirable  deed,  but 
then  the  kindness  is  confined  to  the  body,  though 
to  himself  indeed  he  repays  a  full  recompense 
by  that  benefit  which  is  spiritual  and  concerns 
the  soul ;  whereas  he  who  forgives  trespasses  will 
be  benefiting  alike  his  own  soul,  and  the  soul 
of  him  who  receives  the  forgiveness.  For  by 
this  way  of  acting,  he  not  only  renders  him- 
self, but  the  other  also,  more  charitable.  Be- 
cause we  do  not  so  deeply  touch  the  souls  of 
those  who  have  wronged  us  by  revenging  our- 
selves, as  by  pardoning  them,  and  thus  shaming 
them  and  putting  them  out  of  countenance.  For 
by  the  other  course  we  shall  be  doing  no  good, 
either  to  ourselves  or  to  them,  but  shall  be  doing 
harm  to  both  by  seeking  ourselves  for  retaliation, 
like  the  rulers  of  the  Jews,  and  by  kindling  up 


the  wrath  that  is  in  them  ;  but  if  we  return  injus- 
tice with  gentleness,  we  shall  disarm  all  his  anger, 
and  shall  be  setting  up  in  his  breast  a  tribunal 
which  will  give  a  verdict  in  our  favor,  and  will 
condemn  him  more  severely  than  we  ourselves 
could.  For  he  will  convict  and  will  pass  sen- 
tence upon  himself,  and  will  look  for  every  pre- 
text for  repaying  the  share  of  long-suffering 
granted  him  with  fuller  measure,  knowing  that, 
if  he  repay  it  in  equal  measure,  he  is  thus  at  a 
disadvantage,  in  not  having  himself  made  the 
beginning,  but  received  the  example  from  us. 
He  will  strive  accordingly  to  exceed  in  meas- 
ure, in  order  to  eclipse,  by  the  excess  of  his 
recompense,  the  disadvantage  he  himself  sus- 
tains in  having  been  second  in  making  advances 
towards  requital ;  and  the  disadvantage  again 
which  accrues  to  the  other  from  the  time,  if  he 
was  the  first  sufferer,  this  he  will  make  up  by 
excess  of  kindness.  For  men,  if  they  are  right- 
minded,  are  not  so  affected  by  evil  as  by  the 
good  treatment  they  may  receive  at  the  hands 
of  those  whom  they  have  injured.  For  it  is  a 
base  sin,  and  it  is  matter  of  reproach  and  scorn 
for  a  man  who  is  well-treated  not  to  return  it ; 
whilst  for  a  man  who  is  ill-treated,  not  to  go 
about  to  resent  it,  this  has  the  praise  and  ap- 
plause, and  the  good  word  of  all.  And  there- 
fore they  are  more  deeply  touched  by  this 
conduct  than  any. 

So  that  if  thou  hast  a  wish  to  revenge  thyself, 
revenge  thyself  in  this  manner.  Return  good 
for  evil,  that  thou  mayest  render  him  even  thy 
debtor,  and  achieve  a  glorious  victory.  Hast 
thou  suffered  evil  ?  Do  good  ;  thus  avenge  thee 
of  thine  enemy.  For  if  thou  shalt  go  about  to 
resent  it,  all  will  blame  both  thee  and  him  alike. 
Whereas  if  thou  shalt  endure  it,  it  will  be  other- 
wise. Thee  they  will  applaud  and  admire ;  but 
him  they  will  reproach.  And  what  greater  pun- 
ishment can  there  be  to  an  enemy,  than  to  be- 
hold his  enemy  admired  and  applauded  by  all 
men?  What  more  bitter  to  an  enemy,  than  to 
behold  himself  reproached  by  all  before  his  ene- 
my's face?  If  thou  shalt  avenge  thee  on  him, 
thou  wilt  both  be  condemned  perhaps  thyself, 
and  wilt  be  the  sole  avenger ;  whereas,  if  thou 
shalt  forgive  him,  all  will  be  avengers  in  thy 
stead.  And  this  will  be  far  more  severe  than 
any  evil  he  can  suffer,  that  his  enemy  should 
have  so  many  to  avenge  him.  If  thou  openest 
thy  mouth,  they  will  be  silent ;  but  if  thou  art 
silent,  not  with  one  tongue  only,  but  with  ten 
thousand  tongues  *>f  others,  thou  smitest  him, 
and  art  the  more  avenged.  And  on  thee  in- 
deed, if  thou  shalt  reproach  him,  many  again 
will  cast  imputations  (for  they  will  say  that  thy 
words  are  those  of  passion)  ;  but  when  others 
who  have  suffered  no  wrong  from  him  thus  over- 
whelm him  with  reproaches,  then  is  the  revenue 


128 


WORKS  OF   ST.  CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  XVII. 


especially  clear  of  all  suspicion.  For  when  they 
who  have  suffered  no  mischief,  in  consequence 
of  thy  excessive  forbearance  feel  and  sympathize 
with  thee,  as  though  they  had  been  wronged 
themselves,  this  is  a  vengeance  clear  of  all  sus- 
picion. "  But  what  then,"  ye  will  say,  "  if  no 
man  should  take  vengeance?"  It  cannot  be 
that  men  will  be  such  stones,  as  to  behold  such 
wisdom  and  not  admire  it.  And  though  they 
wreak  not  their  vengeance  on  him  at  the  time ; 
still,  afterwards,  when  they  are  in  the  mood,  they 
will  do  so,  and  they  will  continue  to  scoff  at  him 
and  abuse  him.  And  if  no  one  else  admire  thee, 
the  man  himself  will  most  surely  admire  thee, 
though  he  may  not  own.  it  For  our  judgment 
of  what  is  right,  even  though  we  be  come  to 
the  very  depth  of  wickedness,  remains  impartial 
and  unbiased.  Why,  suppose  ye,  did  our  Lord 
Christ  say,  "  Whosoever  smiteth  thee  on  the  right 
cheek,  turn  to  him  the  other  also  "?  (Matt  v. 
39.)  Is  it  not  because  the  more  long-suffering 
a  man  is,  the  more  signal  the  benefit  he  confers 
both  on  himself  and  on  the  other?  For  this 
cause  He  charges  us  to  "  turn  the  other  also," 
to  satisfy  the  desire  of  the  enraged.  For  who 
is  such  a  monster  as  not  to  be  at  once  put  to 
shame  ?  The  very  dogs  are  said  to  feel  it ;  for 
if  they  bark  and  attack  a  man,  and  he  throws 
himself1  on  his  back  and  does  nothing,  he  puts  a 
stop  to  all  their  wrath.1  If  they  then  reverence 
the  man  who  is  ready  to  suffer  evil  from  them, 
much  more  will  the  race  of  man  do  so,  inas- 
much as  they  are  more  rational. 

However,  it  is  right  not  to  overlook  what  a 
little  before  came  into  my  recollection,  and  was 
brought  forward  for  a  testimony.  And  what 
then  was  this?  We  were  speaking  of  the  Jews, 
and  of  the  chief  rulers  amongst  them,  how  that 
they  were  blamed,  as  seeking  retaliation.  And 
yet  this  the  law  permitted  them ;  "  eye  for  eye, 
and  tooth  for  tooth."  (Lev.  xxiv.  20.)  True, 
but  not  to  the  intent  that  men  should  pluck  out 


each  other's  eyes,  but  that  they  should  check 
boldness  in  aggression,  by  fear  of  suffering  in 
return,  and  thus  should  neither  do  any  evil  to 
others,  nor  suffer  any  evil  from  others  them- 
selves. Therefore  it  was  said,  "eye  for  eye," 
to  bind  the  hands  of  the  aggressor,  not  to  let 
thine  loose  against  him ;  not  to  ward  off  the 
hurt  from  thine  eyes  only,  but  also  to  preserve 
his  eyes  safe  and  sound. 

But,  as  to  what  I  was  enquiring  about, — 
why,  if  retaliation  was  allowed,  were  they  ar- 
raigned who  practiced  it?  Whatever  can  this 
mean  ?  He  here  speaks  of  vindictiveness ;  for 
on  the  spur  of  the  moment  he  allows  the  sufferer 
to  act,  as  I  was  saying,  in  order  to  check  the 
aggressor ;  but  to  bear  a  grudge  he  permits  no 
longer ;  because  the  act  then  is  no  longer  one 
of  passion,  nor  of  boiling  rage,  but  of  malice 
premeditated.  Now  God  forgives  those  who 
may  be  carried  away,  perhaps  upon  a  sense  of 
outrage,  and  rush  out  to  resent  it.  Hence  He 
says,  "  eye  for  eye  " ;  and  yet  again,  "  the  ways 
of  die  revengeful  lead  to  death."1  Now,  i£ 
where  it  was  permitted  to  put  out  eye  for  eye, 
so  great  a  punishment  is  reserved  for  the  re- 
vengeful, how  much  more  for  those  who  are 
bidden  even  to  expose  themselves  to  ill-treat- 
ment. Let  us  not  then  be  revengeful,  but  let 
us  quench  our  anger,  that  we  may  be  counted 
worthy  of  the  lovingkindness,  which  comes 
from  God  ("for  with  what  measure,"  saith 
Christ,  "ye  mete,  it  shall  be  measured  unto 
you,  and  with  what  judgment  ye  judge,  ye 
shall  be  judged")  (Matt.  vii.  2),  and  that  we 
may  both  escape  the  snares  of  this  present  life, 
and  in  the  day  that  is  at  hand,  may  obtain  par- 
don at  His  hands,  through  the  grace  and  loving- 
kindness  of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  with  whom, 
to  the  Father,  together  with  the  Holy  Ghost,  be 
glory,  power,  honor,  both  now  and  forever  and 
ever.    Amen. 


HOMILY    XVII. 

EPHESIANS   iv.    32,   AND   V.    I,    2. 


"And  be  ye  kind  one  to  another,  tender  hearted,  forgiv- 
ing each  other,  even  as  God  also  in  Christ  forgave 
you.  Be  ye  therefore  imitators  of  God,  as  beloved 
children ;  and  walk  in  love,  even  as  Christ  also  loved 
you,  and  gave  Himself  up  for  us,  an  offering  and 
a  sacrifice  to  God  for  an  odor  of  a  sweet  smell." 


1  [Compare  Odyssey,  Bk.  xiv.  33-36,  where  Ulysses  thus  quiets 
the  dogs  ol  Eumaeus:  — 

"  Soon  as  Ulysses  near  the  enclosure  drew, 
With  open  mouths  the  furious  mastiffs  flew; 
Down  sat  the  sage,  and,  cautious  to  withstand, 
Let  fall  the  offensive  truncheon  from  his  hand." 

Pope's  translation.  —  G.  A.] 


The  events  which  are  past  have  greater  force 
than  those  which  are  yet  to  come,  and  appear 
to  be  both  more  wonderful  and  more  convinc- 
ing. And  hence  accordingly  Paul  founds  his 
exhortation  upon  the  things  which  have  already 
been  done  for  us,  inasmuch  as  they,  on  Christ's 
account,   have   a  greater   force.      For   to   say, 

*  [Prov.  xii.  28,  according  to  Septuagint,  which  has  Wot  to  m»*t»- 
cn.Ka.Kuiv  *i%  edvarov.  The  Rev.  Ver.,  following  the  Hebrew,  has, 
"  And  in  the  pathway  thereof  (righteousness)  there  is  no  death."  — 
G.  A.] 


Homily  XVIL] 


HOMILIES   ON    EPHESIANS. 


129 


"Forgive,  and  ye  shall  be  forgiven"  (Matt. 
vi.  14),  and  "  if  ye  forgive  not,  ye  shall  in  no- 
wise be  forgiven"  (Matt.  vi.  15),  —  this  ad- 
dressed to  men  of  understanding,  and  men  who 
believe  in  the  things  to  come,  is  of  great  weight ; 
but  Paul  appeals  to  the  conscience  not  by  these 
arguments  only,  but  also  by  things  already  done 
for  us.  In  the  former  way  we  may  escape  pun- 
ishment, whereas  in  this  latter  we  may  have  our 
share  of  some  positive  good.  Thou  imitatest 
Christ.  This  alone  is  enough  to  recommend 
virtue,  that  it  is  "to  imitate  God."  This  is  a 
higher  principle  than  the  other,  "  for  He  maketh 
His  sun  to  rise  on  the  evil  and  the  good,  and 
sendeth  rain  on  the  just  and  the  unjust."  (Matt, 
v.  45.)  Because  he  does  not  merely  say  that 
we  are  "imitating  God,"  but  that  we  do  so  in 
those  things  wherein  we  receive  ourselves  such 
benefits.  He  would  have  us  cherish  the  tender 
heart  of  fathers  towards  each  other.  For  by 
heart,  here,  is  meant  iovingkindness  and  com- 
passion. For  inasmuch  as  it  cannot  be  that, 
being  men,  we  shall  avoid  either  giving  pain  or 
suffering  it,  he  does  the  next  thing,  he  devises 
a  remedy,  —  that  we  should  forgive  one  another. 
And  yet  there  is  no  comparison.  For  if  thou 
indeed  shouldest  at  this  moment  forgive  any  one, 
he  will  forgive  thee  again  in  return  ;  whereas  to 
God  thou  hast  neither  given  nor  forgiven  any- 
thing. And  thou  indeed  art  forgiving  a  fellow- 
servant;  whereas  God  is  forgiving  a  servant, 
and  an  enemy,  and  one  that  hates  Him. 

"  Even  as  God,"  saith  he,  "  also  in  Christ  for- 
gave you." 

And  this,  moreover,  contains  a  high  allusion. 
Not  simply,  he  would  say,  hath  He  forgiven 
us,  and  at  no  risk  or  cost,  but  at  the  sacrifice 
of  His  Son ;  for  that  He  might  forgive  thee, 
He  sacrificed  the  Son;  whereas  thou,  often- 
times, even  when  thou  seest  pardon  to  be 
both  without  risk  and  without  cost,  yet  dost  not 
grant  it. 

"  Be  ye  therefore  imitators  of  God  as  beloved 
children ;  and  walk  in  love,  even  as  Christ  also 
loved  you,  and  gave  Himself  up  for  us  an  offer- 
ing and  sacrifice  to  God  for  an  odor  of  a  sweet 
smell." 

That  thou  mayest  not  then  think  it  an  act  of 
necessity,  hear  how  He  saith,  that  "  He  gave 
Himself  up."  As  thy  Master  loved  thee,  love 
thou  thy  friend.  Nay,  but  neither  wilt  thou  be 
able  so  to  love ;  yet  still  do  so  as  far  as  thou  art 
able.  Oh,  what  can  be  more  blessed  than  a 
sound  like  this  !  Tell  me  of  royalty  or  whatever 
else  thou  wilt,  there  is  no  comparison.  Forgive 
another,  and  thou  art  "  imitating  God,"  thou  art 
made  like  unto  God.  '  It  is  more  our  duty  to 
forgive  trespasses  than  debts  of  money ;  for  if 
thou  forgive  debts,  thou  hast  not  "  imitated 
God  " ;  whereas  if  thou  shalt  forgive  trespasses, 


thou  art  "  imitating  God."  And  yet  how  shalt 
thou  be  able  to  say,  "  I  am  poor,  and  am  not 
able  to  forgive  it,"  that  is,  a  debt,  when  thou 
forgivest  not  that  which  thou  art  able  to  forgive, 
that  is,  a  trespass?  And  surely  thou  dost  not 
deem  that  in  this  case  there  is  any  loss.  Yea, 
is  it  not  rather  wealth,  is  it  not  abundance,  is  it 
not  a  plentiful  store  ? 

And  behold  yet  another  and  a  nobler  incite- 
ment : 1  —  "as  beloved  children,"  saith  he.  Ye 
have  yet  another  cogent  reason  to  imitate  Him, 
not  only  in  that  ye  have  received  such  good  at 
His  hands,  but  also  in  that  ye  are  called  His 
children.  And  since  not  all  children  imitate 
their  fathers,  but  those  which  are  beloved, 
therefore  he  saith,  "  as  beloved  children." 

Ver.  2.   "Walk  in  love."8 

Behold,  here,  the  groundwork  of  all !  So  then 
where  this  is,  there  is  no  "  wrath,  no  anger,  no 
clamor,  no  railing,"  but  all  are  done  away. 
Accordingly  he  puts  the  chief  point  last. 
Whence  wast  thou  made  a  child?  Because 
thou  wast  forgiven.  On  the  same  ground  on 
which  thou  hast  had  so  vast  a  privilege  vouch- 
safed thee,  on  that  selfsame  ground  forgive  thy 
neighbor.  Tell  me,  I  say,  if  thou  wert  in  prison, 
and  hadst  ten  thousand  misdeeds  to  answer  for, 
and  some  one  were  to  bring  thee  into  the  j>alace  ; 
or  rather  to  pass  over  this  argument,  suppose 
thou  wert  in  a  fever  and  in  the  agonies  of  death, 
and  some  one  were  to  benefit  thee  by  some 
medicine,  wouldest  thou  not  value  him  more 
than  ail,  yea  and  the  very  name  of  the  medi- 
cine? For  if  we  thus  regard  occasions  and 
places  by  which  we  are  benefited,  even  as  our 
own  souls,  much  more  shall  we  the  things  them- 
selves. Be  a  lover  then  of  love ;  for  by  this 
art  thou  saved,  by  this  hast  thou  been  made  a 
son.  And  if  thou  shalt  have  it  in  thy  power  to 
save  another,  wilt  thou  not  use  the  same  remedy, 
and  give  the  advice  to  all,  "  Forgive,  that  ye 
may  be  forgiven  "  ?  Thus  to  incite  one  another, 
were  the  part  of  grateful,  of  generous,  and  noble 
spirits. 

"  Even  as  Christ  also,"  he  adds,  "  loved  you." 

Thou  art  only  sparing  friends,  He  enemies. 
So  then  far  greater  is  that  boon  which  cometh 
from  our  Master.  For  how  in  our  case  is  the 
"  even  as  "  preserved.  Surely  it  is  clear  that 
it  will  be,  by  our  doing  good  to  our  enemies. 

"And  gave  Himself  up  for  us  an  offering 
and  a  sacrifice  to  God  for  an  odor  of  a  sweet 
smell." 

Seest  thou  that  to  suffer  for  one's  enemies  is 
"a  sweet-smelling  savor,"  and  an  "acceptable 

1  ["  Now  to  be  God's  beloved  child,  and  not  to  become  like  the 
loving  Father,  —  how  contradictory  were  this!  "  —  Meyer.  —  G.  A.] 

2  ["  And  walk  in  love":  "  the  itai  annexes  that  wherein  this  imi- 
tation of  God  must  consist,  namely,  that  '  love '  is  the  element  in 
which  their  life-work  was  to  take  place,  —  love  such  as  Christ  also 
has  displayed  towards  us."  —  Meyer.  —  G.  A.] 


13° 


WORKS   OF   ST.    CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  XVII. 


sacrifice "  ?  And  if  thoa  shalt  die,  then  wilt 
thou  be  indeed  a  sacrifice.  This  it  is  to  "  imi- 
tate God." 

Ver.  3.  "  But  fornication,  and  all  uncleanness, 
or  covetousness,  let  it  not  even  be  named  among 
you,  as  becometh  saints.'' 

He  has  spoken  of  the  bitter  passion,  of  wrath ; 
he  now  comes  to  the  lesser  evil :  for  that  lust  is 
the  lesser  evil,  hear  how  Moses  also  in  the  law 
says,  first,  "Thou  shalt  do  no  murder"  (Ex.  xx. 
13),  which  is  the  work  of  wrath,  and  then,  "  Thou 
shalt  not  commit  adultery  "  (Ex.  xx.  14),  which 
is  of  lust.  For  as  "  bitterness,"  and  "  clamor," 
and  "  all  malice,"  and  "  railing,"  and  the  like, 
are  the  works  of  the  passionate  man,  so  likewise 
are  "fornication,  uncleanness,  covetousness," 
those  of  the  lustful ;  since  avarice  and  sensuality 
spring  from  the  same  passion.1  But  just  as  in  the 
former  case  he  took  away  "  clamor  "  as  being  the 
vehicle  of  "  anger,"  so  now  does  he  "  filthy  talk- 
ing "  and  "  jesting  "  as  being  the  vehicle  of  lust ; 
for  he  proceeds, 

Ver.  4.  "Nor  filthiness,  nor  foolish  talking,  or 
jesting,  which  are  not  befitting ;  but  rather  giving 
of  thanks." 

Have  no  witticisms,  no  obscenities,  either  in 
word  or  in  deed,  and  thou  wilt  quench  the  flame 
—  "let  them  not  even  be  named,"  saith  he, 
"amon£  you,"  that  is,  let  them  not  anywhere 
t  even  make  their  appearance.  This  he  says  also 
in  writing  to  the  Corinthians.  "  It  is  actually 
reported  that  there  is  fornication  among  you  " 
( 1  Cor.  v.  1) ;  as  much  as  to  say,  Be  ye  all  pure. 
For  words  are  the  way  to  acts.  Then,  that  he 
may  not  appear  a  forbidding  kind  of  person  and 
austere,  and  a  destroyer  of  playfulness,  he  goes 
on  to  add  the  reason,  by  saying,  "  which  are  not 
befitting,"  which  have  nothing  to  do  with  us  — 
"but  rather  giving  of  thanks."  What  good  is 
there  in  uttering  a  witticism  ?  thou  only  raisest  a 
laugh.  Tell  me,  will  the  shoemaker  ever  busy 
himself  about  anything  which  does  not  belong  to 
or  befit  his  trade  ?  or  will  he  purchase  any  tool 
of  that  kind?  No,  never.  Because  the  things 
we  do  not  need,  are  nothing  to  us. 

Moral.  Let  there  not  be  one  idle  word  ;  for 
from  idle  words  we  fall  also  into  foul  words. 
The  present  is  no  season  of  loose  merriment,  but 
of  mourning,  of  tribulation,  and  lamentation  :  and 
dost  thou  play  the  jester?  What  wrestler  on  en- 
tering the  ring  neglects  the  struggle  with  his  ad- 
versary, and  utters  witticisms  ?  The  devil  stands 
hard  at  hand,  "he  is  going  about  roaring" 
(1  Pet.  v.  8)  to  catch  thee,  he  is  moving  every- 
thing, and  turning  everything  against  thy  life, 
and  is  scheming  to  force  thee  from  thy  retreat, 
he  is  grinding  his  teeth  and  bellowing,  he  is 

1  ["  Sensuality  "  and  " covetousness"  are  the  two  cardinal  vices 
of  the  heathen  which  are  to  be  avoided  by  Christians."  —  Meyer  on 
iv.  19.  —  G.  A.] 


breathing  fire  against  thy  salvation;   and  dost 
thou  sit  uttering  witticisms,  and  "  talking  folly," 
and  uttering  things  "which  are  not  befitting." 
Full  nobly  then  wilt  thou  be  able  to  overcome 
him  !    We  are  in  sport,  beloved.    Wouldest  thou 
know  the  life  of  the  saints  ?    Listen  to  what  Paul 
saith.    "  By  the  space  of  three  years  I  ceased 
not  to  admonish  every  one  night  and  day  with 
tears."    (Acts  xx.  31.)    And  if  so  great  was  the 
zeal  he  exerted  in  behalf  of  them  of  Miletus  and 
Ephesus,  not  making  pleasant  speeches,  but  in- 
troducing his  admonition  with  tears,  what  should 
one  say  of  the  rest?    But  hearken  again  to  what 
he  says  to  the  Corinthians.    "  Out  of  much  afflic- 
tion and  anguish  of  heart  I  wrote  unto  you  with 
many  tears."    (2  Cor.  ii.  4.)    And  again,  "Who 
is  weak,  and  I  am  not  weak?"   "Who  is  made 
to  stumble,  and  I  burn  not?"    (2  Cor.  xi.  29.) 
And  hearken  again  to  what  he  says  elsewhere, 
desiring  every  day,  as  one  might  say,  to  depart 
out  of  the  world.     "  For  indeed  we  that  are  in 
this  tabernacle  do  groan  "  (2  Cor.  v.  4)  ;  and 
dost  thou  laugh  and  play?    It  is  war-time,  and 
art  thou   handling   the    dancers'    instruments? 
Look  at  the  countenances  of  men  in  battle,  their 
dark  and  contracted  mien,  their  brow  terrible 
and  full  of  awe.     Mark  the  stern  eye,  the  heart 
eager  and  beating  and  throbbing,  their  spirit  col- 
lected, and  trembling  and  intensely  anxious.    All 
is  good  order,  all  is  good  discipline,  all  is  silence 
in  the  camps  of  those  who  are  arrayed  against 
each  other.    They  speak  not,  I  do  not  say,  an 
impertinent  word,  but  they  utter  not  a  single 
sound.     Now  if  they  who  have  visible  enemies, 
and  who  are  in  nowise  injured   by  words,  yet 
observe  so  great  silence,  dost  thou  who  hast  thy 
warfare,  and  the  chief  of  thy  warfare  in  words, 
dost  thou  leave  this  part  naked  and  exposed? 
Or  art  thou  ignorant  that  it  is  here  that  we  are 
most  beset  with  snares  ?    Art  thou  amusing  and 
enjoying  thyself,  and  uttering  witticisms  and  rais- 
ing a  laugh,  and  regarding  the  matter  as  a  mere 
nothing?    How  many  perjuries,  how  many  in- 
juries, how  many  filthy  speeches  have   arisen 
from  witticisms  !    "  But  no,"  ye  will  say, "  pleas- 
antries are  not  like  this."    Yet  hear  how  he  ex- 
cludes all  kinds  of  jesting.     It  is  a  time  now  of 
war  and  fighting,  of  watch  and  guard,  of  arming 
and  arraying  ourselves.     The  time  of  laughter 
can  have  no  place  here ;  for  that  is  of  the  world. 
Hear  what  Christ  saith :  "  The  world  shall  re- 
joice, but  ye  shall  be  sorrowful."  (John  xvi.  20.) 
Christ  was  crucified  for  thy  ills,  and  dost  thou 
laugh  ?    He  was  buffeted,  and  endured  so  great 
sufferings  because  of  thy  calamity,  and  the  tem- 
pest that  had  overtaken  thee;   and  dost  thou 
play  the  reveler?    And  hbw  wilt  thou  not  then 
rather  provoke  Him  ? 

But  since  the  matter  appears  to  some  to  be 
one  of  indifference,  which  moreover  is  difficult 


Homiiy  XVII.] 


HOMILIES   ON    EPHESIANS. 


131 


to  be  guarded  against,  let  us  discuss  this  point  a 
little,  to  show  you  how  vast  an  evil  it  is.  For 
indeed  this  is  a  work  of  the  devil,  to  make  us 
disregard  things  indifferent.  First  of  all  then, 
even  if  k  were  indifferent,  not  even  in  that  case 
were  it  right  to  disregard  it,  when  one  knows 
that  the  greatest  evils  are  both  produced  and 
increased  by  it,  and  that  it  oftentimes  terminates 
in  fornication.  However,  that  it  is  not  even  in- 
different is  evident  from  hence.  Let  us  see  then 
whence  it  is  produced.  Or  rather,  let  us  see 
what  sort  of  a  person  a  saint  ought  to  be :  — 
gentle,  meek,  sorrowful,  mournful,  contrite. 
The  man  then  who  deals  in  jests  is  no  saint. 
Nay,  were  he  even  a  Greek,  such  an  one  would 
be  scorned.  These  are  things  allowed  to  those 
only  who  are  on  the  stage.  Where  filthiness  is, 
there  also  is  jesting ;  where  unseasonable  laugh- 
'  ter  is,  there  also  is  jesting.  Hearken  to  what 
the  Prophet  saith,  "  Serve  the  Lord  in  fear,  and 
rejoice  with  trembling."  (Ps.  ii.  11.)  Jesting 
renders  the  soul  soft  and  indolent.  It  excites 
the  soul  unduly,  and  often  it  teems  with  acts  of 
violence,  and  creates  wars.  But  what  more? 
In  fine,  hast  thou  not  come  to  be  among  men  ? 
then  "  put  away  childish  things."  (1  Cor.  xiii. 
11.)  Why,  thou  wilt  not  allow  thine  own  ser- 
vant in  the  market  place  to  speak  an  imperti- 
nent word  :  and  dost  thou  then,  who  sayest  thou 
art  a  servant  of  God,  go  uttering  thy  witticisms 
in  the  public  square  ?  It  is  well  if  the  soul  that 
is  "  sober  "  be  not  stolen  away ;  but  one  that  is 
relaxed  and  dissolute,  who  cannot  carry  off?  It 
will  be  its  own  murderer,  and  will  stand  in  no 
need  of  the  crafts  or  assaults  of  the  devil. 

But,  moreover,  in  order  to  understand  this, 
look  too  at  the  very  name.1  It  means  the  ver- 
satile man,  the  man  of  all  complexions,  the  un- 
stable, the  pliable,  the  man  that  can  be  anything 
and  everything.  But  far  is  this  from  those  who 
are  servants  to  the  Rock.  Such  a  character 
quickly  turns  and  changes ;  for  he  must  needs 
mimic  both  gesture  and  speech,  and  laugh  and 
gait,  and  everything,  aye,  and  such  an  one  is 
obliged  to  invent  jokes  :  for  he  needs  this  also. 
But  far  be  this  from  a  Christian,  to  play  the  buf- 
foon. Farther,  the  man  who  plays  the  jester 
must  of  necessity  incur  the  signal  hatred  of  the 
objects  of  his  random  ridicule,  whether  they  be 
present,  or  being  absent  hear  of  it. 

If  the  thing  is  creditable,  why  is  it  left  to 
mountebanks  ?  What,  dost  thou  make  thyself  a 
mountebank,  and  yet  art  not  ashamed  ?  Why  is 
it  ye  permit  not  your  gentlewomen  to  do  so? 
Is  it  not  that  ye  set  it  down  as  a  mark  of  an  im- 
modest, and  not  of  a  discreet  character  ?    Great 

are  the  evils  that  dwell  in  a  soul  given  to  jesting ; 

— — . *  

1  ["  evrpaarcAia,  from  cvrpa«-cAo«t  which  is  derived  from  *v  and 
y*r«H«*, '  chat  which  easily  turns/  and  in  this  way  adapts  itself  to 
«  moods  and  conditions  of  those  with  whom  at  the  moment  it  may 
<W.M— Trench,  Synonyms  qf  N.  T.  x  series,  p.  167.— G.  A.] 


great  is  the  ruin  and  desolation.  Its  consistency 
is  broken,  the  building  is  decayed,  fear  is  ban- 
ished, reverence  is  gone.  A  tongue  thou  hast, 
not  that  thou  mayest  ridicule  another  man,  but 
that  thou  mayest  give  thanks  unto  God.  Look 
at  your  merriment- makers,2  as  they  are  called, 
those  buffoons.  These  are  your  jesters.  Ban- 
ish from  your  souls,  I  entreat  you,  this  graceless 
accomplishment.  It  is  the  business  of  parasites, 
of  mountebanks,  of  dancers,  of  harlots ;  far  be 
it  from  a  generous,  far  be  it  from  a  highborn 
soul,  aye,  far  too  even  from  slaves.  If  there  be 
any  one  who  has  lost  respect,  if  there  be  any 
vile  person,  that  man  is  also  a  jester.  To  many 
indeed  the  thing  appears  to  be  even  a  virtue, 
and  this  truly  calls  for  our  sorrow.  Just  as  lust 
by  little  and  little  drives  headlong  into  fornica- 
tion, so  also  does  a  turn  for  jesting.  It  seems 
to  have  a  grace  about  it,  yet  there  is  nothing 
more  graceless  than  this.  For  hear  the  Scrip- 
ture which  says,  "Before  the  thunder  goeth 
lightning,  and  before  a  shamefaced  man  shall  go 
favor." 3  Now  there  is  nothing  more  shameless 
than  the  jester ;  so  that  his  mouth  is  not  full  of 
favor,  but  of  pain.  Let  us  banish  this  custom 
from  our  tables.  Yet  are  there  some  who  teach 
it  even  to  the  poor  !  O  monstrous  !  they  make 
men  in  affliction  play  the  jester.  Why,  where 
shall  not  this  pest  be  found  next  ?  Already  has 
it  been  brought  into  the  Church  itself.  Already 
has  it  laid  hold  of  the  very  Scriptures.  Need  I 
say  anything  to  prove  the  enormity  of  the  evil? 
I  am  ashamed  indeed,  but  still  nevertheless  I 
mil  speak ;  for  I  am  desirous  to  show  to  what  a 
length  the  mischief  has  advanced,  that  I  may 
not  appear  to  be  trifling,  or  to  be  discoursing  to 
you  on  some  trifling  subject ;  that  even  thus  I 
may  be  enabled  to  withdraw  you  from  this  de- 
lusion. And  let  no  one  think  that  I  am  fabri- 
cating, but  I  will  tell  you  what  I  have  really 
heard.  A  certain  person  happened  to  be  in 
company  with  one  of  those  who  pride  themselves 
highly  on  their  knowledge  (now  I  know  I  shall 
excite  a  smile,  but  still  I  will  say  it  notwithstand- 
ing) ;  and  when  the  platter  was  set  before  him, 
he  said,  "  Take  and  eat,  children,  lest  your  belly 
be  angry  !  "4  And  again,  others  say,  "  Woe  unto 
thee,  Mammon,  and  to  him  that  hath  thee 
not";5  and  many  like  enormities  has  jesting 
introduced ;  as  when  they  say,  "  Now  is  there 
no  nativity."6  And  this  I  say  to  show  the  enor- 
mity of  this  base  temper ;  for  these  are  the  ex- 
pressions of  a  soul  destitute  of  all  reverence. 
And  are  not  these  things  enough  to  call  down 
thunderbolts  ?     And  one  might  find  many  other 


3  [y<Ao>roiroiov«,  literally,  "  laugh-makers.'1  —  G.  A.] 

8  [irpb  fipovTTis  tear  a<r  ire  v£ci  aaipan-q,  real  irpo  axe xvvn)pov  irpoc- 
Acvo-crot  yapi«.  —  Ecclus.  xxxii.  10.  —  G.  A.] 

4  Ap*$aa$tt  v<u&iat  pij  irore  bpyiirOff  *oiAia. 

5  oval  <rot,  /ia/ifttpa,  xaX  rtp  /u.ij  *Xoyri  trt. 

•  'Apri  owe  core  yivtats.    vid.  Suicer,  Thesaurus,  voc.  yivtirt,*t 
n.  3. 


13* 


WORKS   OF   ST.   CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  XVTIL 


such   things   which   have    been  said  by  these 
men. 

Wherefore,  I  entreat  you,  let  us  banish  the 
custom  universally,  and  speak  those  things  which 
become  us.  Let  not  holy  mouths  utter  the  words 
of  dishonorable  and  base  men.  "  For  what  fel- 
lowship have  righteousness  and  iniquity,  or  what 
communion  hath  light  with  darkness?  "  (2  Cor. 
vi.  14.)  Happy  will  it  be  for  us,  if,  having  kept 
ourselves  aloof  from  all  such  foul  things,  we  be 
thus  able  to  attain  to  the  promised  blessings; 
far  indeed  from  dragging  such  a  train  after  us, 
and  sullying  the  purity  of  our  minds  by  so  many. 
For  the  man  who  will  play  the  jester  will  soon 


go  on  to  be  a  railer,  and  the  railer  will  go  on  to 
heap  ten  thousand  other  mischiefs  on  himself. 
When  then  we  shall  have  disciplined  these  two 
faculties  of  the  soul,  anger  and  desire  (vid.  Plat. 
Phaedr.  cc.  25,  34),  and  have  put  them  like  well- 
broken  horses  under  the  yoke  of  reason,  then  let 
us  set  over  them  the  mind  as  charioteer,  that  we 
may  "  gain  the  prize  of  our  high  calling  "  (Phil, 
iii.  14)  ;  which  God  grant  that  we  may  all  attain, 
through  Jesus  Christ  our  Lord,  with  Whom,  to- 
gether with  the  Holy  Ghost,  be  unto  the  Father, 
glory,  might,  and  honor,  now,  and  ever,  and 
throughout  all  ages.    Amen. 


HOMILY    XVIII. 


Ephesians  v.  5,  6. 


"  For  this  ye  know  of  a  surety,  that  no  fornicator,  nor 
unclean  person,  nor  covetous  man,  which  is  an  idol- 
ater, hath  any  inheritance  in  the  kingdom  of  Christ 
and  God.  Let  no  man  deceive  you  with  empty  words : 
for  because  of  these  things  cometh  the  wrath  of  God 
upon  the  sons  of  disobedience." 

There  were,  it  is  likely,  in  the  time  of  our 
forefathers  also,  some  who  "  weakened  the  hands 
of  the  people"  (Jer.  xxxviii.  4),  and  brought 
into  practice  that  which  is  mentioned  by  Eze- 
kiel,  —  or  rather  who  did  the  works  of  the  false 
prophets,  who  u  profaned  God  among  His  people 
forhandfuls  of  barley"  (Ezek.  xiii.  19):  a  thing, 
bv  the  wav,  done  methinks  bv  some  even  at  this 
day.  When,  for  example,  we  say  that  he  who 
calleth  his  brother  a  fool  shall  depart  into  hell- 
fire,  others  say,  "What?  Is  he  that  calls  his 
brother  a  fool  to  depart  into  hell-fire  ?  Impos- 
sible," say  they.  And  again,  when  we  say  that 
•%  the  covetous  man  is  an  idolater."  in  this  too 
again  they  make  abatements,  and  say  the  ex- 
pression is  hyperbolical.  And  in  this  manner 
they  underrate  and  explain  away  all  the  com- 
mandments. It  was  in  allusion  then  to  these 
that  the  Nessed  Paul,  at  this  time  when  he  wrote 
to  the  Ephesians.  spoke  thus,  -  For  this  ye  know,1 
that  r>v>  fornicator,  nor  unclean  person,  nor  cov- 
etoss  nun,  which  is  an  idolater,  hath  any  inher- 
itance in  the  kis^dom  of  Christ  and  God  " : 
addir^t,  *  let  :>o  isan1  deceive  you  with  empty 
wvrds,"     Now  "  emrtv  words  "*  are  those  which 


ver*-  iNkit  .j™*,.  ^*  x  j>  j.«  MM.J  **.  «.*r<i«a*  ^jfit.  Xez.    .~j»-*-  n-  :. 
r»  -  —  Vrw   —  »»   A  * 

:      ■  ",i   A.v.*rcsa*or  m-.f.t  i>e  zxaaz.  ^-^  3eser>  v  .-a&>ebr<r.=£ 

cue  «-  murxr:  .**  nv^^Sesvscs.  &»£  <c  t  eaacc  dc-scao*  rvfcric.  =?  ti* 


for  a  while  are  gratifying,  but  are  in  nowise 
borne  out  in  facts;  because  the  whole  case  is 
a  deception. 

"Because  of  these  things  cometh  the  wrath 
of  God  upon  the  sons  of  disobedience." 

Because  of  "  fornication,"  he  means,  because 
of  "  covetousness,"  because  of  "  uncleanness," 
or  both  because  of  these  things,  and  because  of 
the  "deceit,"*  inasmuch  as  there  are  deceivers. 
"  Sons  of  disobedience  " ;  he  thus  calls  those 
who  are  utterly  disobedient,  those  who  disobey 
Him. 

Ver.  7,  8.  "  Be  not  ye,  therefore,  partaken 
with  them.  For  ye  were4  once  darkness,  but 
;  are  now  light  in  the  Lord." 

Observe  how  wisely  he  urges  them  forward ; 
first,  from  the  thought  of  Christ,  that  ye  love 
j  one  another,  and  do  injury  to  no  man  ;  then,  on 
•  the  other  hand,  from  the  thought  of  punishment 
and  hell-fire.  "  For  ye  were  once  darkness," 
says  he,  "but  are  now  light  in  the  Lord." 
Which  is  what  he  says  also  in  the  Epistle  to  the 
Romans  ;  "  What  fruit  then  had  ye  at  that  time 
in  the  things  whereof  ye  are  now  ashamed  ? " 
(Rom.  vi.  21).  and  reminds  them  of  their  for- 
mer wickedness.  That  is  to  say,  thinking  what 
ye  once  were,  and  what  ye  are  now  become,  do 
not  run  Sick  into  your  former  wickedness,  nor 
do  *•  despite  to  the  grace  "  (Heb.  x.  29)  of  God. 

"  Ye  were  once  darkness,  but  are  now  light  in 
the  Lord  :  " 

Not,  he  says,  by  yocr  own  virtue,  but  through 


ace 


VJ 


wocd*,**  but  to 
CbL  iii.  6.  — 


f-r  'wia^  &.~ 


T-* 


r*».-se  ^noes  »«=*  a  ' ">  ^  * 

*=c  Elicsc  —  v>  A. 


•of 


:* 


emphasis,  has  the 
with  which 
*i.  17. — Meyer 


Homily  XVni.] 


HOMILIES   ON   EPHESIANS. 


*33 


the  grace  of  God  has  this  accrued  to  you.  That 
is  to  say,  ye  also  were  sometime  worthy  of  the 
same  punishments,  but  now  are  so  no  more. 
"  Walk  "  therefore  "  as  children  of  light."  What 
is  meant  however  by  "  children  of  light,"  he 
adds  afterwards. 

Ver.  9,  10.  "For  the  fruit1  of  the  light  is  in 
all  goodness  and  righteousness  and  truth,  prov- 
ing what  is  well-pleasing  unto  the  Lord." 

"  In  all  goodness," 2  he  says  :  this  is  opposed 
to  the  angry,  and  the  bitter :  "  and  righteous- 
ness " ;  this  to  the  covetous  :  "  and  truth  "  ;  this 
to  false  pleasure :  not  those  former  things,  he 
says,  which  I  was  mentioning,  but  their  oppo- 
'  sites.  "  In  all "  ;  that  is,  the  fruit  of  the  Spirit 
ought  to  be  evinced  in  everything.  "  Proving 
what  is  well-pleasing  unto  the  Lord  "  ;  so  that 
those  things  are  tokens  of  a  childish  and  imper- 
fect mind. 

Ver.  ii,  12,  13.  "And  have  no  fellowship 
with  the  unfruitful  works  of  darkness,  but  rather 
even  reprove  them.  For  the  things  which  are 
done  by  them  in  secret  it  is  a  shame  even  to 
speak  of.  But  ail  things  when  they  are  reproved, 
are  made  manifest  by  the  light." 

He  had  said,  "  ye  are  light."  Now  the  light 
reproves  by  exposing  the  things  which  take  place 
in  the  darkness.  So  that  if  ye,  says  he,  are  vir- 
tuous, and  conspicuous,  the  wicked  will  be  unable 
to  lie  hidden.  For  just  as  when  a  candle  is  set, 
all  are  brought  to  light,  and  the  thief  cannot 
enter ;  so  if  your  light  shine,  the  wicked  being 
discovered  shall  be  caught.  So  then  it  is  our 
duty  to  expose  them.  How  then  does  our  Lord 
say,  "Judge  not,  that  ye  be  not  judged  "  ?  (Matt, 
vii.  1,  3.)  Paul  did  not  say  "judge,"  he  said 
"reprove,"  that  is,  correct.  And  the  words, 
"Judge  not,  that  ye  be  not  judged,"  He  spoke 
with  reference  to  very  small  errors.  Indeed,  He 
added, "  Why  beholdest  thou  the  mote  that  is  in 
thy  brother's  eye,  but  considerest  not  the  beam 
that  is  in  thine  own  eye  ?  "  But  what  Paul  is  say- 
ing is  of  this  sort.  As  a  wound,  so  long  as  it  is 
imbedded  and  concealed  outwardly,  and  runs 
beneath  the  surface,  receives  no  attention,  so 
also  sin,  as  long  as  it  is  concealed,  being  as  it 
were  in  darkness,  is  daringly  committed  in  full 
security ;  but  as  soon  as  "  it  is  made  manifest," 
becomes  "  light  "  ;  not  indeed  the  sin  itself,  (for 
how  could  that  be  ?)  but  the  sinner.  For  when 
he  has  been  brought  out  to  light,  when  he  has 
been  admonished,  when  he  has  repented,  when 
he  has  obtained  pardon,  hast  thou  not  cleared 
away  all  his  darkness?  Hast  thou  not  then 
healed  his  wound?     Hast  thou  not  called  his 

1  ["  *  Fruit  of  the  light '  (not  of  the  spirit,  as  Chrysostom's  text 
kas)  denotes  figuratively  the  aggregate  of  moral  effects  which  Chris- 
tian enlightenment  produces."  —  Meyer.  —  G.  A.] 

*  [**  Chrysostom's  interpretation  is  too  specific.  The  words  mean 
'food,  right,  true/  and  embrace  the  whelt  of  Christian  morality." 
— Meyer.—  G.  A.]  • 


unfruitfulness  into  fruit  ?  Either  this  is  his  mean- 
ing,3 or  else  what  I  said  above,  that  your  life 
"  being  manifest,  is  light."  For  no  one  hides  an 
irreproachable  life ;  whereas  things  which  are 
hidden,  are  hidden  by  darkness  covering  them. 

Ver.  14.  "Wherefore  he  saith,  Awake  thou 
that  sleepest,  and  arise  from  the  dead,  and 
Christ  shall  shine  upon  thee." 

By  the  "  sleeper  "  and  the  "  dead,"  he  means 
the  man  that  is  in  sin  ;  for  he  both  exhales  noi- 
some odors  like  the  dead,  and  is  inactive  like 
one  that  is  asleep,  and  like  him  he  sees  nothing, 
but  is  dreaming,  and  forming  fancies  and  illu- 
sions. Some  indeed  read,4  "And  thou  shalt 
touch  Christ " ;  but  others,  "  And  Christ  shall 
shine  upon  thee  " ;  and  it  is  rather  this  latter. 
Depart  from  sin,  and  thou  shalt  be  able  to  be- 
hold Christ.  "  For  every  one  that  doeth  ill, 
hateth  the  light,  and  cometh  not  to  the  light." 
(John  iii.  20.)  He  therefore  that  doeth  it  not, 
cometh  to  the  light. 

Now  he  is  not  saying  this  with  reference  to 
the  unbelievers  only,  for  many  of  the  faithful, 
no  less  than  unbelievers,  •hold  fast  by  wicked- 
ness ;  nay,  some  far  more.  Therefore  to  these 
also  it  is  necessary  to  exclaim,  "Awake,5  thou 
that  sleepest,  and  arise  from  the  dead,  and 
Christ  shall  shine  upon  thee."  To  these  it  is 
fitting  to  say  this  also,  "  God  is  not  the  God  of 
the  dead,  but  of  the  living."  (Matt.  xxii.  32.) 
If  then  he  is  not  the  God  of  the  dead,  let  us 
live. 

Now  there  are  some  who  say  that  the  words, 
"  the  covetous  man  is  an  idolater,"  are  hyper- 
bolical. However,  the  statement  is  not  hyper- 
bolical, it  is  true.  How,  and  in  what  way? 
Because  the  covetous  man  apostatizes  from  God, 
just  as  the  idolater  does.  And  lest  you  should 
imagine  this  is  a  bare  assertion,  there  is  a 
declaration  of  Christ  which  saith,  "  Ye  cannot 
serve  God  and  Mammon."  (Matt.  vi.  24.)  If 
then  it  is  not  possible  to  serve  God  and  Mam- 
mon, they  who  serve  Mammon  have  thrown 
themselves  out  of  the  service  of  God ;  and  they 
who  have  denied  His  sovereignty,  and  serve 
lifeless  gold,  it  is  plain  enough  that  they  are 

*  [This  difficult  passage  is  thus  translated  by  Ellicott:  It  is  true 
these  things  are  done  in  secret,  but  all  of  them,  when  reproved,  are 
made  manifest  by  the  light  (thus  shed  upon  them) ;  for  everything 
that  is  made  manifest  is  light  (becomes  daylight,  is  of  the  nature  of 
light).  — G.  A.] 

*  [iw(.*l/av<T*(.s (instead  of  inijtavatt)  is  the  reading  of  D*  and  E, 
and  the  Latin  versions  of  these  MSS.  {continues  Christum),  but  it 
never  obtained  much  acceptance,  and  hardly  appears  in  extant 
codices.  See  Scrivener's  In  trod.  632,  and  Wcstcott  and  Hort,  Appen- 
dix, p.  125.  —  G.  A.] 

*  ["  The  words  here  quoted  are  not  found  exactly  in  this  form  in 
the  O.  T.,  but  certainly  occur  in  substance  in  Isa.  lx.  1.  Instead  of 
resorting  to  the  explanation  of  Meyer  or  De  Wette  (which  are  some- 
what  rationalistic),  it  is  better  to  say  that  Paul,  under  the  inspiration 
of  the  Holy  Spint,  is  expressing  in  a  condensed  form  the  spiritual 
meaning  of  the  passage."  —  Ellicott.  Riddle  says:  "  It  is  Isa.  lx.  1, 
partly  paraphrased  and  partly  condensed,  and  interpreted  in  the  light 
of  its  fulfillment."  "  This  call  of  God  to  the  sons  of  disobedience  to 
awake,  confirms  the  necessity  of  the  i\€y\«iv,  and  the  promise,  'Christ 
shall  shine  upon  thee,'  confirms  the  salutary  influence  of  the  light." 
—  Meyer. — G.  A.] 


134 


WORKS   OF   ST.    CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  XVIII 


idolaters.  "  But  I  never  made  an  idol,"  a  man 
will  say,  "  nor  set  up  an  altar,  nor  sacrificed 
sheep,  nor  poured  libations  of  wine ;  no,  I 
came  into  the  church,  and  lifted  up  my  hands 
to  the  Only-begotten  Son  of  God ;  I  partake  of 
the  mysteries,  I  communicate  in  prayer,  and  in 
everything  else  which  is  a  Christian's  duty. 
How  then,"  he  will  say,  "am  la  worshiper  of 
idols?"  Yes,  and  this  is  the  very  thing  which 
is  the  most  astonishing  of  all,  that  when  thou 
hast  had  experience,  and  hast  "  tasted "  the 
lovingkindness  of  God,  and  "  hast  seen  that  the 
Lord  is  gracious"  (Ps.  xxxiv.  8),  thou  shouldest 
abandon  Him  who  is  gracious,  and  take  to  thy- 
self a  cruel  tyrant,  and  shouldest  pretend  to  be 
serving  Him,  whilst  in  reality  thou  hast  sub- 
mitted thyself  to  the  hard  and  galling  yoke  of 
covetousness.  Thou  hast  not  yet  told  me  of 
thy  own  duty  done,  but  only  of  thy  Master's 
gifts.  For  tell  me,  I  beseech  thee,  whence  do 
we  judge  of  a  soldier?  Is  it  when  he  is  on  duty 
guarding  the  king,  and  is  fed  by  him,  and  called 
the  king's  own,  or  is  it  when  he  is  minding  his 
own  affairs  and  interests?  To  pretend  to  be 
with  him,  and  to  be  attentive  to  his  interests, 
whilst  he  is  advancing  the  cause  of  the  enemy, 
we  declare  to  be  worse  than  if  he  breaks  away 
from  the  king's  service,  and  joins  the  enemy. 
Now  then  thou  art  doing  despite  to  God,  just 
as  an  idolater  does,  not  with  thine  own  mouth 
singly,  but  with  the  ten  thousands  of  those 
whom  thou  hast  wronged.  Yet  you  will  say, 
"  an  idolater  he  is  not."  But  surely,  whenever 
they  say,  "  Oh  !  that  Christian,  that  covetous 
fellow,"  then  not  only  is  he  himself  committing 
outrage  by  his  own  act,  but  he  frequently  forces 
those  also  whom  he  has  wronged  to  use  these 
words ;  and  if  they  use  them  not,  this  is  to  be 
set  to  the  account  of  their  reverence. 

Do  we  not  see  that  such  is  the  fact?  What 
else  is  an  idolater?  Or  does  not  he  too  worship 
passions,  oftentimes  not  mastering  his  passions? 
I  mean,  for  example,  when  we  say  that  the 
pagan  idolater  worships  idols,  he  will  say,  "  No, 
but  it  is  Venus,  or  it  is  Mars."  And  if  we  say, 
Who  is  this  Venus?  the  more  modest  amongst 
them  will  say,  It  is  pleasure.  Or  what  is  this 
Mars  ?  It  is  wrath.  And  in  the  same  way  dost 
thou  worship  Mammon.  If  we  say,  Who  is  this 
Mammon  ?  It  is  covetousness,  and  this  thou  art 
worshiping.  "  I  worship  it  not,"  thou  wilt  say. 
Why  not?  Because  thou  dost  not  bow  thyself 
down?  Nay,  but  as  it  is,  thou  art  far  more  a 
worshiper  in  thy  deeds  and  practices ;  for  this 
is  the  higher  kind  of  worship.  And  that  you 
may  understand  this,  look  in  the  case  of  God  ; 
who  more  truly  worship  Him,  they  who  merely 
stand  up  at  the  prayers,  or  they  who  do  His 
will?  Clearly  enough,  these  latter.  The  same 
also   is   it   with   the  worshipers   of  Mammon; 


they  who  do  his  will,  they  truly  are  his  wor 
snipers.  However,  they  who  worship  the  pas 
sions  are  oftentimes  free  from  the  passions.  On< 
may  see  a  worshiper  of  Mars  oftentimes  gov 
erning  his  wrath.  But  this  is  not  true  of  thee 
thou  makest  thyself  a  slave  to  thy  passion. 

Yes,  but  thou  slayest  no  sheep?  No,  thoi 
slayest  men,  reasonable  souls,  some  by  famine 
others  by  blasphemies.  Nothing  can  be  mor< 
frenzied  than  a  sacrifice  like  this.  Who  evei 
beheld  souls  sacrificed  ?  How  accursed  is  th< 
altar  of  covetousness !  When  thou  passest  b] 
this  idol's  altar  here,  thou  shalt  see  it  reeking 
with  the  blood  of  bullocks  and  goats ;  but  wher 
thou  shalt  pass  by  the  altar  of  covetousness,  thoi 
shalt  see  it  breathing  the  shocking  odor  of  hu 
man  blood.  Stand  here  before  it  in  this  world 
and  thou  shalt  see,  not  the  wings  of  birds  burn 
ing,  no  vapor,  no  smoke  exhaled,  but  the  bodies 
of  men  perishing.  For  some  throw  themselve; 
among  precipices,  others  tie  the  halter,  other 
thrust  the  dagger  through  their  throat.  Hasi 
thou  seen  the  cruel  and  inhuman  sacrifices! 
Wouldest  thou  see  yet  more  shocking  ones  thai 
these?  Then  I  will  show  thee  no  longer  th< 
bodies  of  men,  but  the  souls  of  men  slaughtered 
in  the  other  world.  Yes,  for  it  is  possible  for  z 
soul  to  be  slain  with  the  slaughter  peculiar  tc 
the  soul ;  for  as  there  is  a  death  of  the  body,1  sc 
is  there  also  of  the  soul.  "  The  soul  that  sin- 
neth,"  saith  the  Prophet, "  it  shall  die."  (  Ezek, 
xviii.  4.)  The  death  of  the  soul,  however,  i« 
not  like  the  death  of  the  body ;  it  is  far  more 
shocking.  For  this  bodily  death,  separating  the 
soul  and  the  body  the  one  from  the  other,  re 
leases  the  one  from  many  anxieties  and  toils 
and  transmits  the  other  into  a  manifest  abode 
then  when  the  body  has  been  in  time  dissolved 
and  crumbled  away,  it  is  again  gathered  togethei 
in  incorruption,  and  receives  back  its  own  propei 
soul.  Such  we  see  is  this  bodily  death.  Bui 
that  of  the  soul  is  awful  and  terrific.  For  thi; 
death,  when  dissolution  takes  place,  does  not 
let  it  pass,  as  the  body  does,  but  binds  it  dowi 
again  to  an  imperishable  body,  and  consigns  ii 
to  the  unquenchable  fire.  This  then  is  the  death 
of  the  soul.  And  as  therefore  there  is  a  deatt 
of  the  soul,  so  is  there  also  a  slaughter  of  the 
soul.  What  is  the  slaughter  of  the  body  ?  It  is 
the  being  turned  into  a  corpse,  the  being  stripped 
of  the  energy  derived  from  the  soul.  What  is 
the  slaughter  of  the  soul?  It  is  its  being  made 
a  corpse  also.  And  how  is  the  soul  made  a 
corpse  ?  Because  as  the  body  then  becomes  a 
corpse  when  the  soul  leaves  it  destitute  of  its 
own  vital  energy,  so  also  does  the  soul  then  be- 

1  [As  in  other  places,  the  text  of  Field  is  here  incomplete 
(wnreo  y«ip  e<m  t^v^m  $avaroft  "  ♦vx'f  yap  q  atxaprdvowa,"  etc.] 
It  omits  the  clause,  fxnrtp  yip  «<m  awnaros  Oavaroi,  which  is  s< 
necessary  to  the  sense  and  which  is  attested  by  excellent  manuscrip 
authority,  and  adopted  by  Savile.  •—  G.  A.] 


Homily  XVIII.] 


HOMILIES   ON    EPHESIANS. 


135 


come  a  corpse,  when  the  Holy  Spirit  leaves  it 
destitute  of  His  spiritual  energy. 

Such  for  the  most  part  are  the  slaughters 
made  at  the  altar  of  covetousness.  They  are 
not  satisfied,  they  do  not  stop  at  men's  blood ; 
no,  the  altar  of  covetousness  is  not  glutted,  un- 
less it  sacrifice  the  very  soul  itself  also,  unless  it 
receive  the  souls  of  both,  the  sacrificer  and  the 
sacrificed.  For  he  who  sacrifices  must  first  be 
sacrificed,  and  then  he  sacrifices ;  and  the  dead 
sacrifices  him  who  is  yet  living.  For  when  he 
utters  blasphemies,  when  he  reviles,  when  he  is 
irritated,  are  not  these  so  many  incurable  wounds 
of  the  soul? 

Thou  hast  seen  that  the  expression  is  no  hy- 
perbole. Wouidest  thou  hear  again  another 
argument,  to  teach  you  how  covetousness  is 
idolatry,  and  more  shocking  than  idolatry? 
Idolaters  worship  the  creatures  of  God  ("for 
they  worshiped,"  it  is  said,  "  and  served  the 
creature  rather  than  the  Creator")  (Rom. 
i.  25) ;  but  thou  art  worshiping  a  creature  of 
thine  own.  For  God  made  not  covetousness, 
but  thine  own  insatiable  appetite  invented  it.1 
And  look  at  the  madness  and  folly.  They  that 
worship  idols,  honor  also  the  idols  they  worship  ; 
and  if  any  one  speak  of  them  with  disrespect  or 
ridicule,  they  stand  up  in  their  defense ;  whereas 
thou,  as  if  in  a  sort  of  intoxication,  art  worship- 
ing an  object,  which  is  so  far  from  being  free 
from  accusation,  that  it  is  even  full  of  impiety. 
So  that  thou,  even  more  than  they,  excellest  in 
wickedness.  Thou  canst  never  have  it  to  say  as 
an  excuse,  that  it  is  no  evil.  If  even  they  are 
in  the  highest  degree  without  excuse,  yet  art 
thou  in  a  far  higher,  who  art  forever  censuring 
covetousness,  and  reviling  those  who  devote 
themselves  to  it,  and  who  yet  doth  serve  and 
obey  it. 

We  will  examine,  if  you  please,  whence  idola- 
try took  its  rise.  A  certain  wise  man  (Wisd. 
xiv.  16)  tells  us,  that  e  certain  rich  man  afflicted 
with  untimely  mourning  for  his  son,  and  having 
no  consolation  for  his  sorrow,  consoled  his  pas- 
sion in  this  way :  having  made  a  lifeless  image 
of  the  dead,  and  constantly  gazing  at  it,  he 
seemed  through  the  image  to  have  his  departed 
one  still ;  whilst  certain  flatterers,  "  whose  God 
was  their  belly"  (Phil.  iii.  19),  treating  the 
image  with  reverence  in  order  to  do  him 
honor,  carried  on  the  custom  into  idolatry.2 
So  then  it  took  its  rise  from  weakness  of 
soul,  from  a  senseless  custom,  from  extrava- 
gance. But  not  so  covetousness  :  from  weakness 
of  soul  indeed  it  is,  only  that  it  is  from  a  worse 

1  [This  seems  strained;  for  it  is  not  true  that  they  worshiped 
covetousness,  a  creature  of  their  own,  as  Chrysostom  calls  it,  but 
they  worshiped  sold  and  silver,  which  are  creatures  of  God. — 
G.A.1 

*  [This  is  a  rather  doubtful  and  inadequate  account  of  the  begin- 
ning of  idolatry. — G.  A.] 


weakness.  It  is  not  that  any  one  has  lost  a  son, 
nor  that  he  is  seeking  for  consolation  in  sorrow, 
nor  that  he  is  drawn  on  by  flatterers.  But  how 
is  it?  I  will  tell  you.  Cain  in  covetousness 
overreached8  God;  what  ought  to  have  been 
given  to  Him,  he  kept  to  himself;  what  he 
should  have  kept  himself,  this  he  offered  to 
Him ;  and  thus  the  evil  began  even  from  God. 
For  if  we  are  God's,  much  more  are  the  first- 
fruits  of  our  possessions.  Again,  men's  violent 
passion  for  women  arose  from  covetousness.* 
"They  saw  the  daughters  of  men"  (Gen.  vi.  2), 
and  they  rushed  headlong  into  lust.  And  from 
hence  again  it  went  on  to  money ;  for  the  wish 
to  have  more  than  one's  neighbor  of  this  world's 
goods,  arises  from  no  other  source,  than  from 
"  love  waxing  cold."  The  wish  to  have  more 
than  one's  share  arises  from  no  other  source 
than  recklessness,  misanthropy,  and  arrogance 
toward  others.  Look  at  the  earth,  how  wide  is 
its  extent?  How  far  greater  than  we  can  use 
the  expanse  of  the  sky  and  the  heaven?  It  is 
that  He  might  put  an  end  to  thy  covetousness, 
that  God  hath  thus  widely  extended  the  bounds 
of  the  creation.  And  art  thou  then  still  grasp- 
ing and  even  thus?  And  dost  thou  hear  that 
covetousness  is  idolatry,  and  not  shudder  even 
at  this?  Dost  thou  wish  to  inherit  the  earth? 
Then  hast  thou  no  inheritance  in  heaven.  Art 
thou  eager  to  leave  an  inheritance  to  others, 
that  thou  mayest  rob  thyself  of  it?  Tell  me,  if 
any  one  were  to  offer  thee  power  to  possess  all 
things,  wouidest  thou  be  unwilling  ?  It  is  in  thy 
power  now,  if  thou  wilt.  Some,  however,  say, 
that  they  are  grieved  when  they  transmit  the  in- 
heritance to  others,  and  would  fain  have  con- 
sumed it  themselves,  rather  than  see  others 
become  its  masters.  Nor  do  I  acquit  thee  of 
this  weakness ;  for  this  too  is  characteristic  of  a 
weak  soul.  However,  at  least  let  as  much  as 
this  be  done.  In  thy  will  leave  Christ  thine 
heir.  It  were  thy  duty  indeed  to  do  so  in  thy 
lifetime,  for  this  would  show  a  right  disposition. 
Still,  at  all  events,  be  a  little  generous,  though  it 
be  but  by  necessity.  For  Christ  indeed  charged 
us  to  give  to  the  poor  with  this  object,  to  make 
us  wise  in  our  lifetime,  to  induce  us  to  despise 
money,  to  teach  us  to  look  down  upon  earthly 
things.  It  is  no  contempt  of  money,  as  you 
think,  to  bestow  it  upon  this  man  and  upon  that 
man  when  one  dies,  and  is  no  longer  master  of 
it.  Thou  art  then  no  longer  giving  of  thine  own, 
but  of  absolute  necessity :  thanks  to  death,  not 
to  thee.    This  is  no  act  of  affection,  it  is  thy  loss. 


3  6  KatV  to»»  Qtbv  €n\€oviKrri<rev  (comp.  ir\«ovt^ia). 

*  [This  is  what  the  text  seems  to  mean  (iraAiy  <i«  yvfoiitot  airb 
n\tovt£ias  tj  opM*)  yiyovev),  and  yet  he  is  proposing  to  explain  the 
origin  of  covetousness  (which,  by  the  way,  most  men  need  go  no 
further  than  their  own  heart  to  find),  and  not  of  lust.  Moreover,  the 
following  context  makes  lust  a  source  of  covetousness,  which  is 
true,  and  not  covetousness  the  source  of  lust,  which  is  not  true. 
—  G.A.J 


136 


WORKS   OF   ST.    CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  XVIII. 


However,  let  it  be  done  even  thus  ;  at  least  then 
give  up  thy  passion. 

Moral.  Consider  how  many  acts  of  plunder, 
how  manv  acts  of  covetousness,  thou  hast  com- 
mitted.  Restore  all  fourfold.  Thus  plead  thy 
cause  to  God.  Some,  however,  there  are  who 
are  arrived  at  such  a  pitch  of  madness  and  blind- 
ness, as  not  even  then  to  comprehend  their  duty ; 
but  who  go  on  acting  in  all  cases,  just  as  if  they 
were  taking  pains  to  make  the  judgment  of  God 
vet  heavier  to  themselves.  This  is  the  reason 
why  our  blessed  Apostle  writes  and  says,  "-Walk 
as  children  of  light."  Now  the  covetous  man  of 
all  others  lives  in  darkness,  and  spreads  great 
darkness  over  all  things  around. 

u  And  have  no  fellowship,"  he  adds,  "  with 
the  unfruitful  works  of  darkness,  but  rather  even 
reprove  them  ;  for  the  things  which  are  done  by 
them  in  secret,  it  is  a  shame  even  to  speak  of; 
txit  all  things  when  they  are  reproved  are  made 
manifest  by  the  light."  Hearken,  I  entreat  you, 
all,  as  manv  of  vou  as  like  not  to  be  hated  for 
nothing,  but  to  be  loved.  "  What  need  is  there 
to  be  hated?"  one  says.  A  man  commits  a 
robbery,  and  dost  thou  not  reprove  him,  but  art 
afraid  of  his  hatred?  though  this,  however,  is 
not  being  hated  for  nothing.  But  dost  thou 
justly  convict  him,  and  yet  fear  the  hatred? 
Convict  thy  brother,  incur  enmity  for  the  love's 
sake  which  thou  owest  to  Christ,  for  the  love's 
sake  which  thou  owest  to  thy  brother.  Arrest 
him  as  he  is  on  his  road  to  the  pit  of  destruc- 
tion. For  to  admit  him  to  our  table,  to  treat 
him  with  civil  speeches,  with  salutations,  and 
with  entertainments,  these  are  no  signal  proofs 
of  friendship.  No,  those  I  have  mentioned  are 
the  boons  which  we  must  bestow  upon  our 
friends,  that  we  may  rescue  their  souls  from  the 
wrath  of  God.  When  we  see  them  lying  pros- 
trate in  the  furnace  of  wickedness,  let  us  raise 
them  up.  "  But,"  they  say,  "  it  is  of  no  use,  he 
is  incorrigible."  However,  do  thou  thy  duty, 
and  then  thou  hast  excused  thyself  to  God. 
Hide  not  thy  talent.  It  is  for  this  that  thou 
hast  speech,  it  is  for  this  thou  hast  a  mouth 
and  a  tongue,  that  thou  mayest  correct  thy 
neighbor.1  It  is  dumb  and  reasonless  creatures 
only  that  have  no  care  for  their  neighbor,  and 
take  no  account  of  others.  But  dost  thou 
while  calling  God,  "  Father,"  and  thy  neighbor, 
"  brother,"  when  thou  seest  him  committing 
unnumbered  wickednesses,  dost  thou  prefer  his 
good-will  to  his  welfare?  No,  do  not  so,  I 
entreat  you.  There  is  no  evidence  of  friend- 
ship so  true  as  never  to  overlook  the  sins  of 

1  fCompare  John  Wesley's  sermon  on  the  "  Duty  of  Reproving 
our  Neighbor,"  Works,  Vol.  II.,  p.  88  (New  York  ed.),  for  a  thor- 
ough  and  fearless  discussion  of  this  difficult  duty.  —  G.  A.] 


our  brethren.  Didst  thou  see  them  at  enmity? 
Reconcile  them.  Didst  thou  see  them  guilty 
of  covetousness?  Check  them.  Didst  thou 
see  them  wronged?  Stand  up  in  their  defense. 
It  is  not  on  them,  it  is  on  thyself  thou  art  con- 
ferring the  chief  benefit.  It  is  for  this  we  are 
friends,  that  we  may  be  of  use  one  to  another. 
A  man  will  listen  in  a  different  spirit  to  a  friend, 
and  to  any  other  chance  person.  A  chance 
person  he  will  .regard  perhaps  with  suspicion, 
and  so  in  like  manner  will  he  a  teacher,  but  not 
so  a  friend. 

"  For,"  he  says,  "  the  things  which  are  done 
by  them  in  secret  it  is  a  shame  even  to  speak 
of :  but  all  things  when  they  are  reproved  are 
made  manifest  by  the  light."  What  is  it  he 
means  to  sav  here?  He  means  this.  That 
some  sins  in  this  world  are  done  in  secret,  and 
some  also  openly ;  but  in  the  other  it  shall  not 
be  so.  Now  there  is  no  one  who  is  not  con- 
scious to  himself  of  some  sin.  This  is  why  he 
says, "  But  all  the  things  when  they  are  reproved 
are  made  manifest  by  the  light."  What  then  ? 
Is  this  again,  it  will  be  said,  meant  concerning 
idolatry?  It  is  not;  the  argument  is  about  our 
life  and  our  sins.  "  For  everything  that  is  made 
manifest,"  says  he,  "  is  light." 

Wherefore,  I  entreat  you,  be  ye  never  back- 
ward to  reprove,  nor  displeased  at  being  re- 
proved.8 For  as  long  indeed  as  anything  is 
carried  on  in  the  dark,  it  is  carried  on  with 
greater  security ;  but  when  it  has  many  to  wit- 
ness what  is  done,  it  is  brought  to  light.  By  all 
means  then  let  us  do  all  we  can  to  chase  away 
the  deadness  which  is  in  our  brethren,  to  scatter 
the  darkness,  and  to  attract  to  us  the  "  Sun  of 
righteousness."  For  if  there  be  many  shining 
lights,  the  path  of  virtue  will  be  easy  to  them- 
selves, and  they  which  are  in  darkness  will  be 
more  easily  detected,  while  the  light  is  held 
forth  and  puts  the  darkness  to  flight.  Whereas 
if  it  be  the  reverse,  there  is  fear  lest  as  the  thick 
mist  of  darkness  and  of  sin  overpowers  the  light, 
and  dispels  its  transparency,  those  shining  lights 
themselves  should  be  extinguished.  Let  us  be 
then  disposed  to  benefit  one  another,  that  one 
and  all,  we  may  offer  up  praise  and  glory  to  the 
God  of  lovingkindness,  by  the  grace  and  loving- 
kindness  of  the  only  begotten  Son  with  whom  to 
the  Father,  together  with  the  Holy  Ghost,  be 
glory,  strength,  honor  now  and  forever  and  for- 
ever.    Amen. 


*  ["  Better  is  open  rebuke 
Than  love  that  is  hidden. 
Faithful  are  the  wounds  of  a  friend, 
But  the  kisses  of  an  enemy  are  profuse."  — Pror.  xxvii.  5,  6. 

"  He  that  rebuketh  a  man  shall  afterward  find  more  fcror 
Than  he  that  flattereth  with  the  tongue.**—  Pror.  xrriii.  23. 

Compare  Chrysostom's  I.  Homily  on  Eutropius,  Vol.  IX.,  p.  949* 
this  series.  — G.  A.] 


Homily  XIX.] 


HOMILIES   ON   EPHESIANS. 


137 


HOMILY  XIX. 

Ephesians  v.  15,  16,  17. 


*  Look  then  carefully  how  ye  walk,  not  as  unwise,  but  as 
wise;  redeeming  the  time,  because  the  clays  are  evil. 
Wherefore  be  ye  not  foolish,  but  understand  what 
the  will  of  the  Lord  is." 

He  is  still  cleansing  away  the  root  of  bitter- 
ness, still  cutting  off  the  very  groundwork  of 
anger.1  For  what  is  he  saying  ?  "  Look  care- 
fully how  ye  walk."  "They  are  sheep  in  the 
midst  of  wolves,"  and  he  charges  them  to  be 
also  "as  doves."  For  "ye  shall  be  harmless," 
saith  he,  "as  doves."  (Matt.  x.  16.)  Forasmuch 
then  as  they  were  both  amongst  wolves,  and 
were  besides  commanded  not  to  defend  them- 
selves, but  to  suffer  evil,  they  needed  this  ad- 
monition.1 Not  indeed  but  that  the  former  was 
sufficient  to  render  them  stronger ; 8  but  now  that 
there  is  besides  the  addition  of  the  two,  reflect 
how  exceedingly  it  is  heightened.  Observe  then 
here  also,  how  carefully  he  secures  them,  by  say- 
ing, "  Look  how  ye  walk."  Whole  cities  were 
at  war  with  them ;  yea,  this  war  made  its  way 
also  into  houses.  They  were  divided,  father 
against  son,  and  son  against  father,  mother 
against  daughter,  and  daughter  against  mother. 
What  then?  Whence  these  divisions?  They 
heard  Christ  say,  "  He  that  loveth  father  or 
mother  more  than  me,  is  not  worthy  of  me." 
(Matt  x.  37.)  Lest  therefore  they  should  think 
that  he  was  without  reason  introducing  wars  and 
fightings,  (since  there  was  likely  to  be  much 
anger  produced,  if  they  on  their  part  were  to 
retaliate,)  to  prevent  this,  he  says,  "  See  care- 
fully how  ye  walk."  That  is  to  say,  "  Except 
the  Gospel  message,*  give  no  other  handle  on 
any  score  whatever,  for  the  hatred  which  you 
will  incur."  Let  this  be  the  only  ground  of 
hatred.  Let  no  one  have  any  other  charge  to 
make  against  you ;  but  show  all  deference  and 
obedience,  whenever  it  does  no  harm  to  the 
message,  whenever  it  does  not  stand  in  the  way 
of  godliness.  For  it  is  said,  "Render  to  all 
their  dues,  tribute  to  whom  tribute,  custom  to 
whom  custom."  (Rom.  xiii.  7.)  For  when 
amongst  the  rest  of  the  world  they  shall  see  us 
forbearing,  they  will  be  put  to  shame. 

"  Not  as  unwise,  but  as  wise,5  redeeming  the 
time." 

1  [The  ovv  rather  resumes  the  general  directions  as  to  how  they 
are  to  walk  (comp.  ▼.  p)  after  the  digression  in  ver.  n-14.  —  G.  A.J 

1  [The  text  of  Fiela  omits  the  clause,  "  they  needed  this  admoni- 
tion, leaving  the  sense  obscure  and  difficult.  This  clause  is  attested 
by  five  codices,  and  we  have  inserted  it  with  Savile.  —  G.  A.] 

'  [And  with  four  of  these  codices  we  prefer  the  reading  tvvQtvt- 
rrepot*,  "stronger,"  to  Field's  reading  a<rdtvt<rripovs  (which  is 
"weaker").  —  G.  A.] 

*  ["  This  is  epezegetical  of  the  preceding  words,  viewed  nega- 


It  is  not  from  any  wish  that  you  should  be 
artful,  and  versatile,  that  he  gives  this  advice. 
But  what  he  means  is  this.  The  time  is  not 
yours.  At  present  ye  are  strangers,  and  sojourn- 
ers, and  foreigners,  and  aliens ;  seek  not  honors, 
seek  not  glory,  seek  not  authority,  nor  revenge ; 
bear  all  things,  and  in  this  way,  "  redeem  the 
time  "  ; 6  give  up  many  things,  anything  they  may 
require.  Imagine  now,  I  say,  a  man  had  a  mag- 
nificent house,  and  persons  were  to  make  their 
way  in,  on  purpose  to  murder  him,  and  he  were 
to  give  a  large  sum,  and  thus  to  rescue  himself. 
Then  we  should  say,  he  has  redeemed  himself. 
So  also  hast  thou  a  large  house,  and  a  true  faith 
in  thy  keeping.  They  will  come  to  take  all 
away.  Give  whatever  they  may  demand,  only 
preserve  the  principal  thing,  I  mean  the  faith. 

"  Because  the  days,"  saith  he,  "  are  evil." 

What  is  the  evil  of  the  day?  The  evil  of  the 
day  ought  to  belong  to  the  day.  What  is  the 
evil  of  a  body?  Disease.  And  what  again  the 
evil  of  the  soul  ?  Wickedness.  What  is  the  evil 
of  water?  Bitterness.  And  the  evil  of  each  par- 
ticular thing,  is  with  reference  to  that  nature  of 
it  which  is  affected  by  the  evil.  If  then  there  is 
an  evil  in  the  day,  it  ought  to  belong  to  the  day, 
to  the  hours,  to  the  day-light.  So  also  Christ 
saith,  "  Sufficient  unto  the  day  is  the  evil 
thereof."  (Matt.  vi.  34.)  And  from  this  ex- 
pression we  shall  understand  the  other.  In  what 
sense  then  does  he  call  "the  days  evil"?  In 
what  sense  the  "time"  evil?  It  is  not  the  es- 
sence of  the  thing,  not  the  things  as  so  created, 
but  it  is  the  things  transacted  in  them.  In  the 
same  way  as  we  are  in  the  habit  of  saying,  "  I 
have  passed  a  disagreeable  and  wretched  day." 7 
And  yet  how  could  it  be  disagreeable,  except 
from  the  circumstances  which  took  place  in  it  ? 
Now  the  events  which  take  place  in  it  are,  good 
things  from  God,  but  evil  things  from  bad  men. 
So  then  of  the  evils  which  happen  in  the  times, 
men  are  the  creators,  and  hence  it  is  that  the 
times  are  said  to  be  evil.  And  thus  we  also  call 
the  times  evil. 

Ver.  17,  18.   "Wherefore,"8  he  adds,  "be  ye 

lively  and  positively:  'presenting  yourselves  in  your  walk,  not  as 
unwise,  but  as  wise.' "  —  Meyer.  —  G.  A.l 

•  [Or  rather,  "buying  up  for  yourselves  the  opportunity " :  a 
participial  clause,  which  gives  a  modal  definition  to  the  preceding  <o? 
<ro$ot,  "  as  wise."  "  In  this  figurative  conception  the  doing  of  that 
for  which  the  point  of  time  is  fitted  is  thought  of  as  the  '  purchase- 
price  by  which  the  tempos  becomes  ours.'  "  —  Meyer.  —  G.  A.] 

7  [Compare  on  Gal.  i.  4.  "  This  clause,  '  because  the  days  are 
evil,'  supplies  a  motive  for  buying  up  the  opportunity,  namely, 
because  moral  corruption  is  now  in  vogue."  —  Meyer.  —  G.A.J 

•  ["  This  '  wherefore  '  refers  to  verses  15, 16.  For  this  cause,  i.e. 
because  ye  ought  to  walk  with  such  exactness,  become  not  such  as 
do  not  use  the  mind  aright."  —  Ellicott.  —  G.  A.] 


138 


WORKS   OF   ST.    CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  XIX. 


not  foolish,  but  understand  what  the  will  of  the 
Lord  is ;  and  be  not  drunk  with  wine,  wherein 
is  riot." 

For  indeed  intemperance  in  this  renders  men 
passionate  and  violent,  and  hot-headed,  and 
irritable  and  savage.  Wine  has  been  given  us 
for  cheerfulness,  not  for  drunkenness.  Whereas 
now  it  appears  to  be  an  unmanly  and  contempti- 
ble thing  for  a  man  not  to  get  drunk.  And 
what  sort  of  hope  then  is  there  of  salvation? 
What?  contemptible,  tell  me,  not  to  get  drunk, 
where  to  get  drunk  ought  of  all  things  in  the 
world  to  be  most  contemptible?  For  it  is  of 
all  things  right  for  even  a  private  individual  to 
keep  himself  far  from  drunkenness;  but  how 
much  more  so  for  a  soldier,  a  man  who  lives 
amongst  swords,  and  bloodshed,  and  slaughter : 
much  more,  I  say,  for  the  soldier,  when  his 
temper  is  sharpened  by  other  causes  also,  by 
power,  by  authority,  by  being  constantly  in  the 
midst  of  stratagems  and  battles.  Wouldest  thou 
know  where  wine  is  good?  Hear  what  the 
Scripture  saith,  "Give  strong  drink  unto  him 
that  is  ready  to  perish,  and  wine  unto  the 
bitter  in  soul."  (Prov.  xxxi.  6.)  And  justly, 
because  it  can  mitigate  asperity  and  gloominess, 
and  drive  away  clouds  from  the  brow.  "  Wine 
maketh  glad  the  heart  of  man"  (Ps.  civ.  15), 
says  the  Psalmist.  How  then  does  wine  pro- 
duce drunkenness?  For  it  cannot  be  that  one 
and  the  same  thing  should  work  opposite  effects. 
Drunkenness  then  surely  does  not  arise  from 
wine,  but  from  intemperance.  Wine  is  bestowed 
upon  us  for  no  other  purpose  than  for  bodily 
health  ;  but  this  purpose  also  is  thwarted  by 
immoderate  use.  But  hear  moreover  what  our 
blessed  Apostle  writes  and  says  to  Timothy, ' 
44  Use  a  little  wine  for  thy  stomach's  sake,  and 
thine  often  infirmities." ! 

This  is  the  reason  why  God  has  formed  our 
bodies  in  moderate  proportions,  and  so  as  to , 
be  satisfied  with  a  little,  from  thence  at  once  | 
instructing  us  that  He  has  made  us  adapted  to 
another  life.     And  that  life  He  would  fain  have  ! 
bestowed  upon  us  even  from  the  very  beginning  ; 
but  since  we  rendered  ourselves  unworthy  of  it. 
He  deferred  it ;  and  in  the  time  during  which  ' 
He  deterred  it.  not  even  in  that  does  He  allow 
us  immoderate  indulgence  :  for  a  little  cup  of 
wine  and  a  single  loaf  is  enough   to  satisfv  a 
man's  hunger.     And  man  the    lord    of  all  the 
brute  cre«non  has  He  forme  i  so  as  to  require 
less  food  in  proportion  than  they,  and  his  Kviv 
sinai1. ;    therebv   declaring    to   us   nothing   else 
than   this,   that   we   are    hastening    onward    to 
another  life.     "  Re  not  drunk."  says  he.  *%  with 
wine,  wherein  is  riot":    for  i:  does  no:   save1' 


:  i  Tin..'*,  r;.     CV.  V,-»i.  IX..  ?;c. 

r  /-«••>.'«.•  >ii£pesre.\  r-y  :Se  w.it.-.  arwr^m  " riot ""  which  imme- 
diate :\  p-tveoek.  and  wr  i.  r.  i>  drr:vci  from  tr—^m.  compare  «**>-<  a 
i-  Thavc:**  .V.  J~.  1/xfM.  —  vV  A. 


but  it  destroys ;   and  that,  not  the  body  only, 
but  the  soul  also. 

Ver.  18,  19,  20,  21.  "But  be  filled8  with  the 
Spirit ;  speaking  one  to  another  in  psalms  and 
hymns  and  spiritual  songs,  singing  and  making 
melody  with  your  heart  to  the  Lord;  giving 
thanks  always  for  all  things  in  the  name  of  our 
Lord  Jesus  Christ  to  God  even  the  Father; 
subjecting  yourselves  one  to  another  in  the  fear 
of  Christ." 

Dost  thou  wish,  he  says,  to  be  cheerful,  dost 
thou  wish  to  employ  the  day?  I  give  thee 
spiritual  drink;  for  drunkenness  even  cuts  off 
the  articulate  sound  of  our  tongue;  it  makes 
us  lisp  and  stammer,  and  distorts  the  eyes,  and 
the  whole  frame  together.  Learn  to  sing  psalms, 
and  thou  shalt  see  the  delightfulness  of  the 
employment.  For  they  who  sing  psalms  are 
filled  'with  the  Holy  Spirit,  as  they  who  sing 
satanic  songs  are  filled  with  an  unclean  spirit. 

What  is  meant  by  "  with  your  hearts  to  the 
Lord"?  It  means,  with  close  attention  and 
understanding.  For  they  who  do  not  attend 
closely,  merely  sing,  uttering  the  words,  whilst 
their  heart  is  roaming  elsewhere. 

"Always,"  he  says,  "giving  thanks  for  all 
things  in  the  name  of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ 
unto  God  even  the  Father,  subjecting  yourselves 
one  to  another  in  the  fear  of  Christ." 

That  is,  "  let  your  requests  be  made  known 
unto  God,  with  thanksgiving"  (Phil.  iv.  6); 
for  there  is  nothing  so  pleasing  to  God,  as  for  a 
man  to  be  thankful.  But  we  shall  be  best  able 
to  give  thanks  unto  God,  by  withdrawing  our 
souls  from  the  things  before  mentioned,  and  by 
thoroughly  cleansing  them  by  the  means  he  has 
told  us. 

••  But  be  filled,"  says  he,  "  with  the  Spirit." 

And  is  then  this  Spirit  within  us?  Yes,  in- 
deed, within  us.  For  when  we  have  driven 
away  lying,  and  bitterness,  and  fornication,  and 
uncleanness.  and  covetousness,  from  our  souls, 
when  we  are  become  kind,  tender-hearted,  for- 
giving one  another,  when  there  is  no  jesting, 
when  we  have  rendered  ourselves  worthy  of  it, 
what  is  there  to  hinder  the  Holy  Spirit  from 
coming  and  lighting  upon  us?  And  not  only  will 
He  come  unto  us,  but  He  will  fill  our  hearts ; 
and  when  we  have  so  great  a  light  kindled  within 
us,  then  will  the  way  of  virtue  be  no  longer  diffi- 
cult to  attain,  but  will  be  easy  arid  simple. 

"  Giving  thanks  always."*  he  says,  "for  all 
things." 

-*  '*  The  imperative /**.<.».->■/■  find*  its  explanation  in  the  po»>- 
Ki.ry  of  roist .»m~e  to  i he  Hoiy  Spin:.  The  contrast  does  not  lie  in 
i>.i.-k  .wine  and  nil  *.a  >pm:  .  otherwise  these  words  would  have 
sto.xi  -:  the  beginning  of  their  cause*,  hut  in  the  two  */*/«,  — that 
of  ir.  In  \i  .nation  ani  tr.a:  of  inspiration."  —Meyer.  —  G.  A.] 

*  •*  This  *  piv:nf  :har.k>  a.'ways,"  etc..  is  a  third  modal  definition 
of  tr>e  *  Ke  fV.lcii  with  tSe  spirit."  likewise  coordinate  with  the  two 
prror.'.ir.s  one>,  h-ir.£ir.£  into  prominence,  —  after  the  general  *  sing- 
ing of  p'-iise  "  o:  v«.  :„.  whi.  h  is  to  take  place  audibly,  as  well  as  id 
the  heart.  —  further  &nc  in  particular,  the  *  thanksgiving '  which  the 


Hotly  XIX.] 


HOMILIES   ON   EPHESIANS. 


139 


What  then  ?  Are  we  to  give  thanks  for  every- 
thing that  befalls  us  ?  Yes ;  be  it  even  disease, 
be  it  even  penury.  For  if  a  certain  wise  man 
gave  this  advice  in  the  Old  Testament,  and  said, 
"Whatsoever  is  brought  upon  thee  take  cheer- 
fully, and  be  patient  when  thou  art  changed  to 
alow  estate  "  (Ecclus.  ii.  4)  ;  much  more  ought 
this  to  be  the  case  in  the  New.  Yes,  even 
though  thou  know  not  the  word,  give  thanks. 
For  this  is  thanksgiving.  But  if  thou  give 
thanks  when  thou  art  in  comfort  and  in  afflu- 
ence, in  success  and  in  prosperity,  there  is 
nothing  great,  nothing  wonderful  in  that.  What 
is  required  is,  for  a  man  to  give  thanks  when  he 
is  in  afflictions,  in  anguish,  in  discouragements. 
Utter  no  word  in  preference  to  this,  "  Lord,  I 
thank  thee."  And  why  do  I  speak  of  the  afflic- 
tions of  this  world?  It  is  our  duty  to  give 
God  thanks,  even  for  hell1  itself,  for  the  tor- 
ments and  punishments  of  the  next  world.  For 
surely  it  is  a  thing  beneficial  to  those  who  at- 
tend to  it,  when  the  dread  of  hell  is  laid  like  a 
bridle  on  our  hearts.  Let  us  therefore  give 
thanks  not  only  for  blessings  which  we  see, 
but  also  for  those  which  we  see  not,  and 
for  those  which  we  receive  against  our  will. 
For  many  are  the  blessings  He  bestows  upon 
us,  without  our  desire,  without  our  knowledge. 
And  if  ye  believe  me  not,  I  will  at  once  proceed 
to  make  the  case  clear  to  you.  For  consider,  I 
pray,  do  not  the  impious  and  unbelieving  Gen- 
tiles ascribe  everything  to  the  sun  and  to  their 
idols?  But  what  then?  Doth  He  not  bestow 
blessings  even  upon  them  ?  Is  it  not  the  work 
of  His  providence,  that  they  both  have  life,  and 
health,  and  children,  and  the  like  ?  And  again 
they  that  are  called  Marcionites,2  and  the  Mani- 
chees,  do  they  not  even  blaspheme  Him  ?  But 
what  then  ?  Does  He  not  bestow  blessings  on 
them  every  day?  Now  if  He  bestows  bless- 
ings on  them  that  know  them  not,  much  more 
does  he  bestow  them  upon  us.  For  what  else 
is  the  peculiar  work  of  God  if  it  be  not  this,  to 
do  good  to  ail  mankind,  alike  by  chastisements 
and  by  enjoyments?  Let  us  not  then  give 
thanks  only  when  we  are  in  prosperity,  for  there 
is  nothing  great  in  this.  And  this  the  devil  also 
well  knows,  and  therefore  he  said,  "  Doth  Job 
fear  God  for  nought  ?  Hast  Thou  not  made  an 
hedge  about  him  and  about  all  that  he  hath  on 
every  side  ?  Touch  all  that  he  hath  ;  no  doubt, 
he  will  renounce  Thee  to  Thy  face  !  "  (Job  i. 
10,  11.)  However,  that  cursed  one  gained  no 
advantage ;  and  God  forbid  he  should  gain  any 
advantage  of  us  either ;  but  whenever  we  are 
either  in  penury,  or  in  sicknesses,  or  in  disasters, 

feaden  have  always  for  all  things  to  render  to  God."  —  Meyer. — 

C.A.1 

1  f  Meyer  says  the  context  limits  ndvrwv  to  "  blessings."  —  G.  A.] 
*  [On  these  heretics  and  their  doctrines,  see  Vol.  IX.  (this  series) 

p.  6$  (notes  3  and  5),  and  p.  305,  second  column.  —  G.  A.] 


then  let  us  increase  our  thanksgiving;  thanks- 
giving, I  mean,  not  in  words,  nor  in  tongue,  but 
in  deeds  and  works,  in  mind  and  in  heart.  Let 
us  give  thanks  unto  Him  with  all  our  souls.  For 
He  loves  us  more  than  our  parents ;  and  wide 
as  is  the  difference  between  evil  and  goodness, 
so  great  is  the  difference  between  the  love  of 
God  and  that  of  our  fathers.  And  these  are 
not  my  words,  but  those  of  Christ  Himself  Who 
loveth  us.  And  hear  what  He  Himself  saith, 
"  What  man  is  there  of  you,  who,  if  his  son  shall 
ask  him  for  a  loaf,  will  give  him  a  stone  ?  If  ye 
then,  being  evil,  know  how  to  give  good  gifts 
unto  your  children,  how  much  more  shall  your 
Father  which  is  in  Heaven  give  good  things  to 
them  that  ask  Him  ?  "  (Matt.  vii.  9,  11.)  And 
again,  hear  what  He  saith  also  elsewhere  :  "  Can 
a  woman  forget  her  sucking  child  that  she 
should  not  have  compassion  on  the  son  of  her 
womb?  Yea,  they  may  forget,  yet  will  not  I 
forget  thee,  saith  the  Lord."  (Isa.  xlix.  15.) 
For  if  He  loveth  us  not,  wherefore  did  He 
create  us?  Had  He  any  necessity?  Do  we 
supply  to  Him  any  ministry  and  service  ?  Need- 
eth  He  anything  that  we  can  render?  Hear 
what  the  Prophet  says ;  "  I  have  said  unto  the 
Lord,  Thou  art  my  Lord,  I  have  no  good  be- 
yond Thee."     (Ps.  xvi.  2.) 

The  ungrateful,  however,  and  unfeeling  say, 
that  this  were  worthy  of  God's  goodness,  that 
there  should  be  an  equality  amongst  all.  Tell 
me,  ungrateful  mortal,  what  sort  of  things  are 
they  which  thou  deniest  to  be  of  God's  good- 
ness, and  what  equality  meanest  thou  ?  "  Such 
an  one,"  thou  wilt  say,  "  has  been  a  cripple 
from  his  childhood ;  another  is  mad,  and  is 
possessed ;  another  has  arrived  at  extreme  old 
age,  and  has  spent  his  whole  life  in  poverty; 
another  in  the  most  painful  diseases :  are  these 
works  of  Providence?  One  man  is  deaf,  an- 
other dumb,  another  poor,  whilst  another,  im- 
pious, yea,  utterly  impious,  and  full  of  ten 
thousand  vices,  enjoys  wealth,  and  keeps  con- 
cubines, and  parasites,  and  is  owner  of  a  splendid 
mansion,  and  lives  an  idle  life."3  And  many 
instances  of  the  sort  they  string  together,  and 
weave  a  long  account  of  complaint  against  the 
providence  of  God. 

What  then  are  we  to  say  to  them?  Now  if 
they  were  Greeks,  and  were  to  tell  us  that  the 
universe  is  governed  by  some  one  or  other,  we 
should  in  turn  address  to  them  the  self- same 
words,  "  What  then,  are  things  without  a  provi- 


[s  This  difficulty  is  as  old  as  David.  Chrysostom  docs  not  here  sug- 
gest David's  solution  of  the  problem, —  the  spiritual  compensations 
here  and  hereafter.  And  Paul  could  say  even  to  a  slave  in  his  day, 
"  Wast  thou  called  being  a  slave?  Care  not  for  it.  Nay,  if  thou  art 
even  able  to  be  free,  make  use  of  thy  having  been  called  as  a  slave, 
rather  than  accept  thy  freedom."  (i  Cor.  vu.  ai.)  And  even  Epic- 
tetus  said  something  similar.  A  little  below,  Chrysostom  touches 
this  higher  Theodicy:  "  One  thing  alone  is  evil;  that  is,  to  sin."  — 
G.  A.] 


I40 


WORKS   OF   ST.   CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  XIX. 


dence  ?  How  then  is  it  that  ye  reverence  gods, 
and  worship  genii  and  heroes  ?  For  if  there  is 
a  providence,  some  one  or  other  superintends 
the  whole."  But  if  any,  whether  Christians  or 
Heathen,  should  be  impatient  at  this,  and  be 
wavering,  what  shall  we  say  to  them  ?  "  Why, 
could  so  many  good  things,  tell  me,  arise  of  them- 
selves ?  The  daily  light  ?  The  beautiful  order  and 
'the  forethought  that  exist  in  all  things?  The 
mazy  dances  of  the  stars?  The  equable  course 
of  nights  and  days?  The  regular  gradation  of 
nature  in  vegetables,  and  animals,  and  men? 
Who,  tell  me,  is  it  that  ordereth  these  ?  If  there 
were  no  superintending  Being,  but  all  things 
combined  together  of  themselves,  who  then  was 
it  that  made  this  vault  revolve,  so  beautiful,  so 
vast,  I  mean  the  sky,  and  set  it  upon  the  earth, 
nay  more,  upon  the  waters?  Who  is  it  that 
gives  the  fruitful  seasons?  Who  implanted  so 
great  power  in  seeds  and  vegetables?  For  that 
which  is  accidental  is  necessarily  disorderly; 
whereas  that  which  is  orderly  implies  design. 
For  which,  tell  me,  of  the  things  around  us  that 
are  accidental,  is  not  full  of  great  disorder,  and 
of  great  tumult  and  confusion  ?  Nor  do  I  speak 
of  things  accidental  only,  but  of  those  also  which 
imply  some  agent,  but  an  unskillful  agent.  For 
example,  let  there  be  timber  and  stone,  and  let 
there  be  lime  withal ;  and  let  a  man  unskilled 
in  building  take  them,  and  begin  building,  and 
set  hard  to  work ;  will  he  not  spoil  and  destroy 
everything?  Again,  take  a  vessel  without  a 
pilot,  containing  everything  which  a  vessel  ought 
to  contain,  without  a  shipwright ;  I  do  not  say 
that  it  is  unequipped  and  unfinished,  but  though 
well  equipped,  it  will  not  be  able  to  sail.  And 
could  the  vast  extent  of  earth  standing  on  the 
waters,  tell  me,  ever  stand  so  firmly,  and  so 
long  a  time,  without  some  power  to  hold  it 
together?1  And  can  these  views  have  any  rea- 
son ?  Is  it  not  the  extreme  of  absurditv  to  con- 
ceive  such  a  notion  ?  And  if  the  earth  supports 
the  heaven,  behold  another  burden  still ;  but  if 
the  heaven  also  is  borne  upon  the  waters,  there 
arises  again  another  question.  Or  rather  not 
another  question,  for  it  is  the  work  of  provi- 
dence. For  things  which  are  borne  upon  the 
water  ought  not  to  be  made  convex,  but  con- 
cave. Wherefore  ?  Because  the  whole  body  of 
anvthing  which  is  concave  is  immersed  in  the 
waters*  as  is  the  case  with  a  ship ;  whereas 
of  the  convex  the  body  is  entirely  above, 
and  only  the  rim  rests  upon  the  surface ;  so 
that  it  requires  a  resisting  body,  hard,  and 
able  to  sustain  it*  in  order  to  bear  the  bur- 
den imposed.     But  does  the  atmosphere  then 


support  the  heaven?  Why,  that  is  far  softer, 
and  more  yielding  even  than  water,  and  cannot 
sustain  anything,  no,  not  the  very  lightest  things, 
much  less  so  vast  a  bulk.  In  fine,  if  we  chose 
to  follow  out  the  argument  of  providence,  both 
generally  and  in  detail,  time  itself  would  fail  us. 
For  I  will  now  ask  him  who  would  start  those 
questions  above  mentioned,  are  these  things  the 
result  of  providence,  or  of  the  want  of  provi- 
dence ?  And  if  he  shall  say,  that  they  are  not 
from  providence,  then  again  I  will  ask,  how  then 
did  they  arise  ?  But  no,  he  will  never  be  able 
to  give  any  account  at  all.  And  dost  thou  not 
know  that  ? 

Much  more  then  is  it  thy  duty  not  to  question, 
not  to  be  over  curious,  in  those  things  which 
concern  man.  And  why  not?  Because  man  is 
nobler  than  all  these,  and  these  were  made  for 
his  sake,  not  he  for  their  sake.  If  then  thou 
knowest  not  so  much  as  the  skill  and  contrivance 
that  are  visible  in  His  providence,  how  shalt 
thou  be  able  to  know  the  reasons,  where  he 
himself  is  the  subject?  Tell  me,  I  pray,  why 
did  God  form  him  so  small,  so  far  below  the 
height  of  heaven,  as  that  he  should  even  doubt 
of  the  things  which  appear  above  him?  Why 
are  the  northern  and  southern  climes  uninhabit- 
able? Tell  me,  I  say,  why  is  the  night  made 
longer  in  winter  and  shorter  in  summer?  Why 
are  the  degrees  of  cold  and  heat  such  as  they 
are?  Why  is  the  body  mortal?  And  ten  thou- 
sand questions  besides  I  will  ask  thee,  and  if 
thou  wilt,  will  never  cease  asking.  And  in  one 
and  all  thou  wilt  surely  be  at  a  loss  to  answer. 
And  thus  is  this  of  all  things  most  providential, 
that  the  reasons  of  things  are  kept  secret  from 
us.  For  surely,  one  would  have  imagined  man 
to  be  the  cause  of  all  things,  were  there  not 
this  to  humble  our  understanding. 

"  But  such  an  one,"  you  will  say, u  is  poor,  and 
poverty  is  an  evil.  And  what  is  it  to  be  sick, 
and  what  is  it  to  be  crippled?"  Oh,  man,  they 
are  nothing.1  One  thing  alone  is  evil,  that  is  to 
sin  ;  this  is  the  only  thing  we  ought  to  search  to 
the  bottom.  And  yet  we  omit  to  search  into  the 
causes  of  what  are  really  evils,  and  busy  ourselves 
about  other  things.  Why  is  it  that  not  one  of  us 
ever  examines  why  he  has  sinned?  To  sin, — 
is  it  then  in  my  power,  or  is  it  not  in  my  power? 
Anil  why  need  1  go  round  about  me  for  a  num- 
ber of  reasons  ?  I  will  seek  for  the  matter  within 
myself.  Now  then  did  I  ever  master  my  wrath? 
Did  I  ever  master  my  anger,  either  through 
shame,  or  through  fear  of  man  ?    Then  whenever 


■  ^On  Chrvso*t\.*m*  £eo<r3DhY  and  astronomy,  see  Homily  IX.. 
Concerning  the  Statues,  Vol.  lX.  of  this  acne*,  pp.  *ot,  404.  with 
note*  bv  Rev.  W.  R.  W.  Stevens.  M.A.  Compare  rV  vjuv.  *. 
—  O.  A" 


9  Compare  what  is  said  by  Epictetus  concerning  bis  own  lame- 
ness: **  Shall  I  then,  because  of  one  miserable  IitrJe  leg.  find  fault 
with  the  universe?  Shall  I  not  concede  that  accident  to  the  exist- 
ence of  general  laws,  and  cheerfully  assent  to  it  for  the  sake  of  him 
who  gave  it? "*  And  again,  concerning  he*  slavery:  **  He  is  a  slave 
whose  body  a  free,  but  whose  soul  is  bound:  and  on  the  contrary, 
he  is  free  whose  body  is  bound,  but  whose  soul  is  free.**  — G.  A.] 


Homily  XIX.] 


HOMILIES   ON    EPHESIANS. 


141 


I  discover  this  done,  I  shall  discover  that  to  sin 
is  in  my  own  power.  No  one  examines  these 
matters,  no  one  busies  himself  about  them.  But 
only  according  to  Job,  "  Man  in  a  way  altogether 
different  swims  upon  words."  l  For  why  does  it 
concern  thee,  if  such  an  one  is  blind,  or  such  an 
one  poor?  God  hath  not  commanded  thee  to 
look  to  this,  but  to  what  thou  thyself  art  doing. 
For  if  on  the  one  hand  thou  doubtest  that  there 
is  any  power  superintending  the  world,  thou  art 
of  all  men  the  most  senseless ;  but  if  thou  art 
persuaded  of  this,  why  doubt  that  it  is  our  duty 
to  please  God  ? 

"Giving  thanks  always,"  he  says,  "for  all 
things  to  God." 

Go  to  the  physician's,  and  thou  wilt  see  him, 
whenever  a  man  is  discovered  to  have  a  wound, 
using  the  knife  and  the  cautery.  But  no,  in  thy 
case,  I  say  not  so  much  as  this ;  but  go  to  the 
carpenter's.  And  yet  thou  dost  not  examine  his 
reasons,  although  thou  understandest  not  one  of 
the  things  which  are  done  there,  and  many 
things  will  appear  to  thee  to  be  difficulties ;  as, 
for  instance,  when  he  hollows  the  wood,  when  he 
alters  its  outward  shape.  Nay,  I  would  bring 
thee  to  a  more  intelligible  craft  still,  for  instance, 
that  of  the  painter,  and  there  thy  head  will  swim. 
For  tell  me,  does  he  not  seem  to  be  doing  what 
he  does,  at  randorrl  ?  For  what  do  his  lines  mean, 
and  the  turns  and  bends  of  the  lines  ?  But  when 
he  puts  on  the  colors,  then  the  beauty  of  the  art 
will  become  conspicuous.  Yet  still,  not  even 
then  wilt  thou  be  able  to  attain  to  any  accurate 
understanding  of  it.  But  why  do  I  speak  of  car- 
penters, and  painters,  our  fellow-servants?  Tell 
me,  how  does  the  bee  frame  her  comb,  and  then 
shalt  thou  speak  about  God  also.  Master  the 
handiwork  of  the  ant,  the  spider,  and  the  swal- 
low, and  then  shalt  thou  speak  about  God  also. 
Tell  me  these  things.  But  no,  thou  never  canst. 
Wilt  thou  not  cease  then,  O  man,  thy  vain  en- 
quiries? For  vain  indeed  they  are.  Wilt  thou 
not  cease  busying  thyself  in  vain  about  many 
things?  Nothing  so  wise  as  this  ignorance, 
where  they  that  profess  they  know  nothing  are 
wisest  of  all,  and  they  that  spend  overmuch 
labor  on  these  questions,  the  most  foolish  of  all. 
So  that  to  profess  knowledge  is  not  everywhere 
a  sign  of  wisdom,  but  sometimes  of  folly  also. 
For  tell  me,  suppose  there  were  two  men,  and 
one  of  them  should  profess  to  stretch  out  his 
lines,  and  to  measure  the  expanse  that  inter- 
venes between  the  earth  and  heaven,  and  the 
other  were  to  laugh  at  him,  and  declare  that  he 
did  not  understand  it,  tell  me,  I  pray,  which 
should  we  laugh  at,  him  that  said  he  knew,  or 
him  that  knew  not?  Evidently,  the  man  that 
said  that  he  knew.     He  that  is  ignorant,  there- 

1  [Job  xi.  i2.  the  Sept.  :  avdptairo*  6*  aAAwc  vrjxtrcu  Adyoi?;  but 
th«  Rer.  VerM  after  the  Hebrew,  has:  "  Vain  man  is  void  of  under- 
«*adiag.',-G.  A.] 


fore,  is  wiser  than  he  that  professes  to  know.* 
And  what  again?  If  any  one  were  to  profess  to 
tell  us  how  many  cups  of  water  the  sea  contains, 
and  another  should  profess  his  ignorance,  is  not 
the  ignorance  here  again  wiser  than  the  knowl- 
edge ?  8  Surely,  vastly  so.  And  why  so  ?  Because 
that  knowledge  itself  is  but  intense  ignorance. 
For  he  indeed  who  says  that  he  is  ignorant, 
knows  something.  And  what  is  that  ?  That  it  is 
incomprehensible  to  man.*  Yes,  and  this  is  no 
small  portion  of  knowledge.  Whereas  he  that 
says  he  knows,  he  of  ail  others  knows  not  what 
he  says  he  knows,  and  is  for  this  very  reason 
utterly  ridiculous. 

Moral.  Alas  !  how  many  things  are  there  to 
teach  us  to  bridle  this  unseasonable  imperti- 
nence and  idle  curiosity ;  and  yet  we  refrain  not, 
but  are  curious  about  the  lives  of  others ;  as, 
why  one  is  a  cripple,  and  why  another  is  poor. 
And  so  by  this  way  of  reasoning  we  shall  fall 
into  another  sort  of  trifling  which  is  endless,  as, 
why  such  an  one  is  a  woman  ?  and,  why  all  are 
not  men  ?  why  there  is  such  a  thing  as  an  ass  ? 
why  an  ox?  why  a  dog?  why  a  wolf?  why  a 
stone  ?  why  wood  ?  and  thus  the  argument  will 
run  out  to  an  interminable  length.  This  in 
truth  is  the  reason,  why  God  has  marked  out 
limits  to  our  knowledge,  and  has  laid  them  deep 
in  nature.  And  mark,  now,  the  excess  of  this 
busy  curiosity.  For  though  we  look  up  to  so 
great  a  height  as  from  earth  to  heaven,  and  are 
not  at  ail  affected  by  it ;  yet  as  soon  as  ever  we 
go  up  to  the  top  of  a  lofty  tower,  and  have  a 
mind  to  stoop  over  a  little,  and  look  down,  a 
sort  of  giddiness  and  dizziness  immediately  seizes 
us.  Now,  tell  me  the  reason  of  this.  No,  thou 
couldest  never  find  out  a  reason  for  it.  Why  is 
it  that  the  eye  possesses  greater  power  than 
other  senses,  and  is  caught  by  more  distant  ob- 
jects? And  one  might  see  it  by  comparison 
with  the  case  of  hearing.  For  no  one  will  ever 
be  able  to  shout  so  loudly,  as  to  fill  the  air  as  far 
as  the  eye  can  reach,  nor  to  hear  at  so  great  a 
distance.  Why  are  not  all  the  members  of  equal 
honor  ?  Why  have  not  ail  received  one  function 
and  one  place?  Paul  also  searched  into  these 
questions  ;  or  rather  he  did  not  search  into  them, 
for  he  was  wise  ;  but  where  he  comes  by  chance 
upon  this  topic,  he  says,  "  Each  one  of  them, 
hath  God  set  even  as  it  hath  pleased  Him." 
(1  Cor.  xii.  18.)  He  assigns  the  whole  to  His 
will.  And  so  then  let  us  only  "  give  thanks  for 
all  things."  "  Wherefore,"  says  he,  "  give  thanks 
for  all  things."  This  is  the  part  of  a  well-dis- 
posed, of  a  wise,  of  an  intelligent  servant ;  the 
opposite  is  that  of  a  tattler,  and  an  idler,  and  a 


1  [A  striking  oxymoron.    Compare  the  Greek,  6  ayvowv  tow  viro- 
a\ofxivov  tlitvai  <ro^wT«pof.  —  G.  A.] 

3  [Compare  the  Greek  again  :   ov  ndAiv  >j  ayvoia  rijs  ti&rjcretot 
ctti  <ro4><oTcpa;  — G.  A.] 

4  [Compare,  Unum  scio,  quod  nihil  scio.  —  G.  A.] 


142 


WORKS   OF   ST.    CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  XIX. 


busy-body.  Do  we  not  see  amongst  servants, 
that  those  among  them  who  are  worthless  and 
good  for  nothing,  are  both  tattlers,  and  triflers, 
and  that  they  pry  into  the  concerns  of  their 
masters,  which  they  are  desirous  to  conceal : 
whereas  the  intelligent  and  well-disposed  look  to 
one  thing  only,  how  they  may  fulfill  their  service. 
He  that  says  much,  does  nothing:  as  he  that 
does  much,  never  says  a  word  out  of  season. 
Hence  Paul  said,  where  he  wrote  concerning 
widows,  "  And  they  learn  not  only  to  be  idle, 
but  tattlers  also."  (i  Tim.  v.  13.)  Tell  me, 
now,  which  is  the  widest  difference,  between  our 
age  and  that  of  children,  or  between  God  and 
men?  between  ourselves  compared  with  gnats, 
or  God  compared  with  us?  Plainly  between 
God  and  us.  Why  then  dost  thou  busy  thyself 
to  such  an  extent  in  all  these  questions  ?  "  Give* 
thanks  for  ail  things."  "  But  what,"  say  you,  "  if 
a  heathen  should  ask  the  question  ?  How  am  I 
to  answer  him?  He  desires  to  learn  from  me 
whether  there  is  a  Providence,  for  he  himself 
denies  that  there  is  any  being  thus  exercising 
foresight."  Turn  round  then,  and  ask  him  the 
same  question  thyself.  He  will  deny  therefore 
that  there  is  a  Providence.  Yet  that  there  is  a 
Providence,  is  plain  from  what  thou  hast  said ; 
but  that  it  is  incomprehensible,  is  plain  from 
those  things  whereof  we  cannot  discover  the  rea- 
son. For  if  in  things  where  men  are  the  dis- 
posers, we  oftentimes  do  not  understand  the 
method  of  the  disposition,  and  in  truth  many  of 
them  appear  to  us  inconsistent,  and  yet  at  the 
same  time  we  acquiesce,  how  much  more  will 
this  be  so  in  the  case  of  God  ?  However,  with 
God  nothing  either  is  inconsistent,  or  appears  so 
to  the  faithful.  Wherefore  let  us  "  give  thanks 
for  all  things,"  let  us  give  Him  glory  for  all 
things. 

"  Subjecting 1  yourselves  one  to  another,"  he 
says,  "  in  the  fear  of  Christ."  For  if  thou  sub- 
mit thyself  for  a  ruler's  sake,  or  for  money's 
sake,  or  from  respectfulness,  much  more  from 
the  fear  of  Christ.  Let  there  be  an  interchange 
of  service  and  submission.  For  then  will  there 
be  no  such  thing  as  slavish  service.  Let  not  one 
sit  down  in  the  rank  of  a  freeman,  and  the  other 
in  the  rank  of  a  slave  ;  rather  it  were  better  that 
both  masters  and  slaves  be  servants  to  one  an- 
other ;  —  far  better  to  be  a  slave  in  this  way  than 
free  in  any  other ;  as  will  be  evident  from  hence. 

1  ["  The  words  '  subjecting  yourselves  one  to  another '  still  be- 
long to  ver.  20  as  a  fourth  modal  definition  of  *  Be  filled  with  the 
Spirit,'  and  are  parallel  to  '  giving  thanks  for  all  things  to  God,'  thus 
adding  to  this  relation  toward  God  the  '  mutual '  relation  toward 
'  one  another.'  "  —  Meyer.  —  G.  A.] 


Suppose  the  case  of  a  man  who  should  have  an 
hundred  slaves,  and  he  should  in  no  way  serve 
them ;  and  suppose  again  a  different  case,  of  an 
hundred  friends,  all  waiting  upon  one  another. 
Which  will  lead  the  happier  life?  Which  with 
the  greater  pleasure,  with  the  more  enjoy- 
ment? In  the  one  case  there  is  no  anger,  no 
provocation,  no  wrath,  nor  anything  else  of 
the  kind  whatever ;  in  the  other  all  is  fear  and 
apprehension.  In  the  one  case  too  the  whole 
is  forced,  in  the  other  is  of  free  choice.  In 
the  one  case  they  serve  one  another  because 
they  are  forced  to  do  so,  in  the  other  with 
mutual  gratification.  Thus  does  God  will  it  to 
be;  for  this  He  washed  His  disciples'  feet. 
Nay  more,  if  thou  hast  a  mind  to  examine  the 
matter  nicely,  there  is  indeed  on  the  part  of 
masters  a  return  of  service.  For  what  if  pride 
suffer  not  that  return  of  service  to  appear?  Yet 
if  the  slave  on  the  one  hand  render  his  bodily 
service,  and  thou  maintain  that  body,  and  supply 
it  with  food  and  clothing  and  shoes,  this  is  an 
exchange  of  service :  because  unless  thou  render 
thy  service  as  well,  neither  will  he  render  his, 
but  will  be  free,  and  no  law  will  compel  him  to 
do  it  if  he  is  not  supported.  If  this  then  is  the 
case  with  servants,  where  is  the  absurdity,  if  it 
should  also  become  the  case  with  free  men. 
"Subjecting  yourselves  in  the  fear,"  saith  he, 
"  of  Christ."  *  How  great  then  the  obligation, 
when  we  shall  also  have  a  reward.  But  he 
does  not  choose  to  submit  himself  to  thee? 
However  do  thou  submit  thyself;  not  simply 
yield,  but  submit  thyself.  Entertain  this  feeling 
towards  all,  as  if  all  were  thy  masters.  For 
thus  shalt  thou  soon  have  all  as  thy  slaves,  en- 
slaved to  thee  with  the  most  abject  slavery. 
For  thou  wilt  then  more  surely  make  them  thine, 
when  without  receiving  anything  of  theirs,  thou 
of  thyself  renderest  them  of  thine  own.  This 
is  "  subjecting  yourselves  one  to  another  in  the 
fear  of  Christ,"  in  order  that  we  may  subdue  all 
the  passions,  be  servants  of  God,  and  preserve 
the  love  we  owe  to  one  another.  And  then 
shall  we  be  able  also  to  be  counted  worthy 
of  the  lovingkindness  which  cometh  of  God, 
through  the  grace  and  mercies  of  His  only- 
begotten  Son,  with  whom  to  the  Father,  to- 
gether with  the  Holy  Ghost,  be  glory,  might, 
honor,  now  and  forever  and  ever.    Amen. 

*  [Not  the  fear  of  "God,"  as  Chrysostom,  the  textus  reeeftns  and 
the  Authorized  Eng.  Version  have,  but  the  fear  of  "  Christ "  (as  Rev. 
Ver.,  Westcott  and  Hort,  and  all  trustworthy  authorities).  That 
is,  Christ  is  to  be  '*  feared"  as  the  "Judge"  (Meyer).  Cornelius 
a  Lapide  (in  Ellicott)  says  :  "  Because  we  reverence  Christ  and 
•fear'  to  offend  him":  quia  scilicet  Christum  revtrtmur 
eumque  timemus  offender e.  —  G.  A.] 


Homily  XX.] 


HOMILIES   ON   EPHESIANS. 


143 


HOMILY   XX. 

Ephesians  v.  22-24. 


"Wives,  be  in  subjection  unto  your  own  husbands,  as 
unto  the  Lord.  For  the  husband  is  the  head  of 
the  wife,  as  Christ  also  is  the  head  of  the  Church : 
being  Himself  the  Saviour  of  the  body.  But  as  the 
Church  is  subject  to  Christ,  so  let  the  wives  also  be 
to  their  husbands  in  everything." 

A  certain  wise  man,  setting  down  a  number 
of  things  in  the  rank  of  blessings,  set  down  this 
also  in  the  rank  of  a  blessing,  "  A  wife  agreeing 
with  her  husband."      (Ecclus.  xxv.   1.)     And 
elsewhere  again  he  sets  it  down  among  bless- 
ings, that  a  woman  should   dwell   in  harmony 
with  her  husband.     (Ecclus.  xl.  23.)    And  in- 
deed from  the  beginning,  God  appears  to  have 
made  special  provision  for  this  union ;  and  dis- 
coursing of  the  twain  as  one,  He  said  thus, 
"Male  and  female  created  He  them"  (Gen. 
i.  27)  ;  and  again,  "There  is  neither  male  nor 
female."    (Gal.  iii.  28.)    For  there  is  no  rela- 
tionship between  man  and  man  so  close  as  that 
between  man  and  wife,  if  they  be  joined  to- 
gether as  they  should  be.    And  therefore  a  cer- 
tain blessed  man  too,  when  he  would  express 
surpassing  love,  and  was  mourning  for  one  that 
was  dear  to  him,  and  of  one  soul  with  him,  did 
not  mention  father,  nor  mother,  nor  child,  nor 
brother,  nor  friend,  but  what?  "Thy  love  to 
me   was  wonderful,"   saith    he,    "passing   the 
love  of  women."      (2   Sam.  i.   26.)     For  in- 
deed,  in  very  deed,  this  love  is   more  des- 
potic than  any  despotism :   for  others  indeed 
may  be  strong,  but  this   passion  is  not  only 
strong,  but  unfading.     For  there  is  a  certain 
love  deeply  seated   in  our  nature,  which   im- 
perceptibly to  ourselves  knits  together  these 
bodies  of  ours.     Thus  even  from  the  very  be- 
ginning woman  sprang  from  man,  and  afterwards 
from  man  and  woman   sprang  both  man  and 
woman.1    Perceivest  thou  the  close  bond  and 
connection?    And  how  that  God  suffered  not  a 
different  kind  of  nature  to  enter  in  from  with- 
out? And  mark,  how  many  providential  arrange- 
ments He  made.     He  permitted  the  man  to 
marry  his  own  sister ;  or  rather  not  his  sister, 
but  his  daughter ;  nay,  nor  yet  his  daughter,  but 
something  more  than  his  daughter,  even  his  own 
flesh.2    And  thus   the  whole  He  framed  from 
one  beginning,  gathering  all  together,  like  stones 
in  a  building,  into  one.     For  neither  on  the  one 
hand  did  He  form  her  from  without,  and  this 
was  that  the  man  might  not  feel  towards  her  as 

1  [Compare  what  Paul  says  in  x  Cor.  xi.  8  and  12.  —  G.  A.] 
1  [He  refers  to  Adam's  marrying  Eve.  —  G.  A.] 


towards  an  alien ;  nor  again  did  He  confine 
marriage  to  her,8  that  she  might  not,  by  con- 
tracting herself,4  and  making  all  center  in  her- 
self, be  cut  off  from  the  rest.  Thus  as  in  the 
case  of  plants,  they  are  of  all  others  the  best, 
which  have  but  a  single  stem,  and  spread  out 
into  a  number  of  branches ;  (since  were  all  con- 
fined to  the  root  alone,  all  would  be  to  no  pur- 
pose, whereas  again  had  it  a  number  of  roots, 
the  tree  would  be  no  longer  worthy  of  admira- 
tion ;)  so,  I  say,  is  the  case  here  also.  From 
one,  namely  Adam,  He  made  the  whole  race  to 
spring,  preventing  them  by  the  strongest  neces- 
sity from  being  ever  torn  asunder,  or  separated  ; 
and  afterwards,  making  it  more  restricted,  He 
no  longer  allowed  sisters  and  daughters  to  be 
wives,  lest  we  should  on  the  other  hand  contract 
our  love  to  one  point,  and  thus  in  another  man- 
ner be  cut  off  from  one  another.  Hence  Christ 
said, "  He  which  made  them  from  the  beginning, 
made  them  male  and  female."    (Matt.  xix.  4.) 

For  great  evils  are  hence  produced,  and  great 
benefits,  both  to  families  and  to  states.  For 
there  is  nothing  which  so  welds  our  life  to- 
gether as  the  love  of  man  and  wife.  For  this 
many  will  lay  aside  even  their  arms,5  for  this 
they  will  give  up  life  itself.  And  Paul  would 
never  without  a  reason  and  without  an  object 
have  spent  so  much  pains  on  this  subject,  as 
when  he  says  here,  "  Wives,  be  in  subjection 
unto  your  own  husbands,  as  unto  the  Lord." 
And  why  so  ?  Because  when  they  are  in  har- 
mony, the  children  are  well  brought  up,  and  the 
domestics  are  in  good  order,  and  neighbors,  and 
friends,  and  relations  enjoy  the  fragrance.  But 
if  it  be  otherwise,  all  is  turned  upside  down, 
and  thrown  into  confusion.  And  just  as  when 
the  generals  of  an  army  are  at  peace  one  with 
another,  all  things  are  in  due  subordiifction, 
whereas  on  the  other  hand,  if  they  are  at  vari- 
ance, everything  is  turned  upside  down ;  so,  I 
say,  is  it  also  here.  Wherefore,  saith  he,  "  Wives, 
be  in  subjection  unto  your  own  husbands,  as 
unto  the  Lord." 

Yet  how  strange  !  for  how  then  is  it,  that  it  is 
said  elsewhere,  "  If  one  bid  not  farewell  both  to 
wife  and  to  husband,  he  cannot  follow  me"? 
(Luke  xiv.  26.)     For  if  it  is  their  duty  to  be  in 

*  [That  is,  he  did  not  confine  marriage  to  woman  with  woman.  — 
G.  A.j" 

4  [There  is  another  reading  which  applies  these  words  to  the 
man,  as  follows:  avartWitv  iavrbv  *ai  avvayutv,  "  that  he  might  not, 
by  contracting  himself  and  making  all  center  in  himself,  be  cut  off 
from  the  rest, '  instead  of  <rv<rWAAov<ra,  etc.  —  G.  A.] 

*  osAa. 


144 


WORKS   OF   ST.   CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  XX. 


subjection  "as  unto  the  Lord,"  how  saith  He 
that  they  must  depart  from  them  for  the  Lord's 
sake  ?  Yet  their  duty  indeed  it  is,  their  bounden 
duty.  But  the  word  "as"  is  not  necessarily 
and  universally  expressive  of  exact  equality. 
He  either  means  this,  " '  as '  knowing  that  ye 
are  servants  to  the  Lord  "  ;  (which,  by  the  way, 
is  what  he  says  elsewhere,  that,  even  though 
they  do  it  not  for  the  husband's  sake,  yet  must 
they  primarily  for  the  Lord's  sake  ;)  or  else  he 
means,  "  when  thou  obeyest  thy  husband,  do  so 
as  serving  the  Lord." *  For  if  he  who  resisteth 
these  external  authorities,  those*  of  governments, 
I  mean,  "  withstandeth  the  ordinance  of  God  " 
(Rom.  xiii.  2),  much  more  does  she  who  submits 
not  heraelf  to  her  husband.  Such  was  God's 
will  from  the  beginning. 

Let  us  take  as  our  fundamental  position  then, 
that  the  husband  occupies  the  place  of  the 
"  head,"  and  the  wife  the  place  of  the  "  body." 

Ver.  23,  24.  Then,  he  proceeds  with  argu- 
ments and  says  that  "  the  husband  is  the  head 
of  the  wife,  as  Christ  also  is  the  head  of  the 
Church,  being  Himself  the  Saviour  of  the  body. 
But2  as  the  Church  is  subject  to  Christ,  so  let 
the  wives  be  to  their  husbands  in  everything." 

Then  after  saying,  "  The  husband  is  the  head 
of  the  wife,  as  Christ  also  is  of  the  Church,"  he 
further  adds,  "and  He  is  the  Saviour  of  the 
body."  For  indeed  the  head  is  the  saving 
health  of  the  body.  He  had  already  laid  down 
beforehand  for  man  and  wife,  the  ground  and 
provision  of  their  love,  assigning  to  each  their 
proper  place,  to  the  one  that  of  authority  and 
forethought,  to  the  other  that  of  submission. 
As  then  "  the  Church,"  that  is,  both  husbands 
and  wives,  "  is  subject  unto  Christ,  so  also  ye 
wives  submit  yourselves  to  your  husbands,  as 
unto  God." 

Ver.  25.  "  Husbands,  love  your  wives,  even  as 
Christ  also  loved  the  Church." 

Thou  hast  heard  how  great  the  submission; 
thou  hast  extolled  and  marvelled  at  Paul,  how, 
like  an  admirable  and  spiritual  man,  he  welds 
together  our  whole  life.  Thou  didst  well.  But 
now  hear  what  he  also  requires  at  thy  hands ; 
for  again  he  employs  the  same  example. 

"Husbands,"  saith  he,  "love  your  wives,  even 
as  Christ  also  loved  the  Church." 

Thou  hast  seen  the  measure  of  obedience, 
hear  also  the  measure  of  love.3     Wouldest  thou 


1  ["  co?  expresses  the  mode  of  view  in  which  the  wives  are  to  re- 
gard their  obedience  towards  their  husbands,  namely, '  as  rendered  to 
the  Lord.'  "  —  Meyer.  In  Luke  xiv.  26  the  absolute  is  put  for  the 
relative,  as  elsewhere  often,  and  this  explains  our  author's  difficulty. 
—  G.  A.] 

2  [This  "  but"  is  by  no  means  easy  of  explanation,  but  probably 
is  to  be  understood  thus:  He  is  the  saviour  of  the  body  that  man 
certainly  is  not,  "  but,  nevertheless,"  as  the  Church  is  subject  to 
Christ,  so  let  wives  be  to  their  husbands,  etc.  —  Kllicott,  Meyer, 
Bengel,  Calvin,  and  Alford. — G.  A.] 

3  ["  If  you  put  all  the  arguments  of  orators  together,  you  will  not 
persuade  husband  and  wife  to  mutual  affection  as  Paul  does  in  this 
place." —  Bugenhagcn,  quoted  by  Meyer.  — G.  A.] 


have  thy  wife  obedient  unto  thee,  as  the  Church 
is  to  Christ?  Take  then  thyself  the  same  provi- 
dent care  for  her,  as  Christ  takes  for  the  Church. 
Yea,  even  if  it  shall  be  needful  for  thee  to  give 
thy  life  for  her,  yea,  and  to  be  cut  into  pieces 
ten  thousand  times,  yea,  and  to  endure  and  un- 
dergo any  suffering  whatever,  —  refuse  it  not. 
Though  thou  shouldest  undergo  all  this,  yet  wilt 
thou  not,  no,  not  even  then,  have  done  anything 
like  Christ.  For  thou  indeed  art  doing  it  for 
one  to  whom  thou  art  already  knit ;  but  He  for 
one  who  turned  her  back  on  Him  and  hated 
Him.  In  the  same  way  then  as  He  laid  at  His 
feet  her  who  turned  her  back  on  Him,  who 
hated,  and  spurned,  and  disdained  Him,  not  by 
menaces,  nor  by  violence,  nor  by  terror,  nor  by 
anything  else  of  the  kind,  but  by  his  unwearied 
affection ;  so  also  do  thou  behave  thyself  toward 
thy  wife.  Yea,  though  thou  see  her  looking 
down  upon  thee,  and  disdaining,  and  scorning 
thee,  yet  by  thy  great  thoughtfulness  for  her,  by 
affection,  by  kindness,  thou  wilt  be  able  to  lay 
her  at  thy  feet.  For  there  is  nothing  more 
powerful  to  sway  than  these  bonds,  and  especially 
for  husband  and  wife.  A  servant,  indeed,  one 
will  be  able,  perhaps,  to  bind  down  by  fear ;  nay 
not  even  him,  for  he  will  soon  start  away  and  be 
gone.  But  the  partner  of  one's  life,  the  mother 
of  one's  children,  the  foundation  of  one's  every 
joy,  one  ought  never  to  chain  down  by  fear  and 
menaces,  but  with  love  and  good  temper.  For 
what  sort  of  union  is  that,  where  the  wife  trem- 
bles at  her  husband  ?  And  what  sort  of  pleas- 
ure will  the  husband  himself  enjoy,  if  he  dwells 
with  his  wife  as  with  a  slave,  and  not  as  with  a 
free-woman  ?  Yea,  though  thou  shouldest  suffer 
anything  on  her  account,  do  not  upbraid  her; 
for  neither  did  Christ  do  this. 

Ver.  26.  "And  gave  Himself  up,"  he  says, 
"  for  it,  that  He  might  sanctify  and  cleanse  it." 

So  then  she  was  unclean  !  So  then  she  had 
blemishes,  so  then  she  was  unsightly,  so  then  she 
was  worthless !  Whatsoever  kind  of  wife  thou 
shalt  take,  yet  shalt  thou  never  take  such  a  bride" 
as  the  Church,  when  Christ  took  her/ nor  one  so 
far  removed  from  thee  as  the  Church  was  from 
Christ.  And  yet  for  all  that,  He  did  not  abhor 
her,  nor  loathe  her  for  her  surpassing  deformity. 
Wouldest  thou  hear  her  deformity  described? 
Hear  what  Paul  saith,  "  For  ye  were  once  dark- 
ness." (Eph.  v.  8.)  Didst  thou  see  the  black- 
ness of  her  hue?  What  blacker  than  darkness? 
But  look  again  at  her  boldness,  "  living,"  saith 
he,  "  in  malice  and  envy."  (Tit.  iii.  3.)  Look 
again  at  her  impurity ;  "  disobedient,  foolish." 
But  what  am  I  saying?  She  was  both  foolish, 
and  of  an  evil  tongue  ;  and  yet  notwithstanding, 
though  so  many  were  her  blemishes,  yet  did  He 
give  Himself  up  for  her  in  her  deformity,  as  for 
one  in  the  bloom  of  youth,  as  for  one  dearly  be- 


Homily  XX.] 


HOMILIES   ON   EPHESIANS. 


145 


loved,  as  for  one  of  wonderful  beauty.  And  it 
was  in  admiration  of  this  that  Paul  said,  "  For 
scarcely  for  a  righteous  man  will  one  die 
(Rom.  v.  7)  ;  and  again,  "  in  that  while  we 
were  yet  sinners,  Christ  died  for  us."  (Rom, 
v.  8.)  And  though  such  as  this,  He  took  her, 
He  arrayed  her  in  beauty,  and  washed  her,  and 
refused  not  even  this,  to  give  Himself  for  her. 

Ver.  26,  27.  "  That  He  might  sanctify  it  hav- 
ing cleansed  it,"  he  proceeds,  "  by  the  washing 
of  water  with  the  word ;  that  He  might  present 
the  Church  to  Himself  a  glorious  Church,  not 
having  spot,  or  wrinkle,  or  any  such  thing,  but 
that  it  should  be  tyoly  and  without  blemish." 

"By  the  washing  or  laver"  He  washeth  her 

uncleanness.     "  By  the  word,"  saith  he.     What 

word  ?  "  In  the  Neme  of  the  Father,  and  of  the 

Son,  and  of  the  Holy  Ghost."  *  (Matt,  xxviii.  19.) 

And  not  simply  hath  He  adorned  her,  but  hath 

made  her  "  glorious,  not  having  spot,  or  wrinkle, 

or  any  such  thing."     Let  us  then  also  seek  after 

this  beauty  ourselves,  and  we  shall  be  able  to 

create  it     Seek  not  thou  at  thy  wife's  hand, 

things  which  she  is  not  able  to  possess.     Seest 

thou  that  the  Church  had  all  things  at  her  Lord's 

hands?    By  Him  was  made  glorious,  by  Him 

was  made  pure,  by  Him  made  without  blemish  ? 

Turn  not  thy  back  on  thy  wife  because  of  her 

deformity.    Hear  the  Scripture  that  saith,  "The 

bee  is  little  among  such  as  fly,  but  her  fruit  is  the 

chief  of  sweet  things."2    (Ecclus.  xi.  3.)    She  is 

of  God's  fashioning.    Thou  reproachest  not  her, 

but  Him  that  made  her ;  what  can  the  woman 

do?   Praise  her  not  for  her  beauty.     Praise  and 

hatred    and    love  based   on    personal    beauty 

belong  to  unchastened   souls.     Seek  thou  for 

beauty  of  soul.     Imitate  the  Bridegroom  of  the 

Church.     Outward  beauty  is  full  of  conceit  and 

great  license,  and  throws  men  into  jealousy,  and 

the  thing  often  makes  thee  suspect  monstrous 

things.     But  has  it  any  pleasure  ?     For  the  first 

or  second  month,  perhaps,  or  at  most  for  the 

year:   but  then  no  longer;  the  admiration  by 

familiarity  wastes  away.     Meanwhile   the   evils 

which  arose   from  the   beauty  still  abide,  the 

pride,  the  folly,  the  contemptuousness.    Whereas 

in  one  who  is  not  such,  there  is  nothing  of  this 

kind.      But  the   love   having    begun    on    just 

grounds,  still  continues  ardent,  since  its  object 

is  beauty  of  soul,  and  not  of  body.  What  better, 

tell  me,  than  heaven?    What  better  than  the 

stars?    Tell  me  of  what  body  you  will,  yet  is 

there  none  so  fair.    Tell  me  of  what  eyes  you 

1  f" '  The  word*  (pw"0  does  not  mean  here  the  '  baptismal  for- 
sub,  as  Chrysostom  holds,  but '  the  gospel,'  and  here  stands  with- 
out the  article,  because,  denoting  '  the  word '  xar'  i(o\riv,  it  could  be 
treated  as  a  proper  noun,  as  rrfpoc,  &c.  All  special  interpretations, 
except  that  of '  gospel,'  are  purely  invented."  —  Meyer.  —  G.  A.] 

'  [Note  that  Chrysostom  here  quotes  the  Old  Testament  Apocry- 
pha as  Scripture:  «ucov«  riff  ypafat  A«yov<np.  Dr.  Schaffsays: 
"  He  accepts  the  Syrian  Canon  of  the  Peshito,  which  includes  the 
Old  Test,  with  the  Apocrypha,"  &c    Prolegomena^  p.  xo. — G.  A.] 


will,  yet  are  there  none  so  sparkling.  When 
these  were  created,  the  very  Angels  gazed  with 
wonder,  and  we  gaze  with  wonder  now ;  yet  not 
in  the  same  degree  as  at  first.  Such  is  famil- 
iarity; things  do  not  strike  us  in  the  same 
degree.  How  much  more  in  the  case  of  a  wife  ! 
And  if  moreover  disease  come  too,  all  is  at  once 
fled.  Let  us  seek  in  a  wife  affectionateness, 
modest- mindedness,  gentleness ;  these  are  the 
characteristics  of  beauty.  But  loveliness  of 
person  let  us  not  seek,  nor  upbraid  her  upon 
these  points,  over  which  she  has  no  power,  nay, 
rather,  let  us  not  upbraid  at  ail,  (it  were  rude- 
ness,) nor  let  us  be  impatient,  nor  sullen.  Do 
ye  not  see  how  many,  after  living  with  beautiful 
wives,  have  ended  their  lives  pitiably,  and  how 
many,  who  have  lived  with  those  of  no  great 
beauty,  have  run  on  to  extreme  old  age  with 
great  enjoyment.  Let  us  wipe  off  the  "  spot " 
that  is  within,  let  us  smooth  the  "  wrinkles " 
that  are  within,  let  us  do  away  the  "  blemishes  " 
that  are  on  the  soul.  Such  is  the  beauty  God 
requires.  Let  us  make  her  fair  in  God's  sight, 
not  in  our  own.  Let  us  not  look  for  wealth, 
nor  for  that  high-birth  which  is  outward,  but  for 
that  true  nobility  which  is  in  the  soul.  Let  no 
one  endure  to  get  rich  by  a  wife ;  for  such 
riches  are  base  and  disgraceful ;  no,  by  no 
means  let  any  one  seek  to  get  rich  from  this 
source.  "  For  they  that  desire  to  be  rich,  fall 
into  a  temptation  and  a  snare,  and  many  foolish 
and  hurtful  lusts,  and  into  destruction  and  per- 
dition." (1  Tim.  vi.  9.)  Seek  not  therefore  in 
thy  wife  abundance  of  wealth,  and  thou  shalt 
find  everything  else  go  well.  Who,  tell  me, 
would  overlook  the  most  important  things,  to 
attend  to  those  which  are  less  so?  And  yet, 
alas  !  this  is  in  every  case  our  feeling.  Yes,  if 
we  have  a  son,  we  concern  ourselves  not  how 
he  may  be  made  virtuous,  but  how  we  may  get 
him  a  rich  wife  ;  not  how  he  may  be  well-man- 
nered, but  weli-monied : 8  if  we  follow  a  busi- 
ness, we  enquire  not  how  it  may  be  clear  of  sin, 
but  how  it  may  bring  us  in  most  profit.  And 
everything  has  become  money;  and  thus  is 
everything  corrupted  and  ruined,  because  that 
passion  possesses  us. 

Ver.  28.  "  Even  so  ought  husbands  to  love 
their  own  wives,"  saith  he,  "  as  their  own  bodies." 

What,  again,  means  this?  To  how  much 
greater  a  similitude,  and  stronger  example  has 
he  come ;  and  not  only  so,  but  also  to  one 
how  much  nearer  and  clearer,  and  to  a  fresh 
obligation.  For  that  other  one  was  of  no  very 
constraining  force,  for  He  was  Christ,  and  was 
God,  and  gave  Himself.  He  now  manages  his 
argument  on  a  different  ground,  saying,  "so 
ought  men  " ;  because  the  thing  is  not  a  favor, 

8  oi»x  SfffcK  «wTpoiro?  a  A  A*  oirwc  eviropoc. 


146 


WORKS   OF   ST.   CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  XX. 


but  a  debt.  Then,  "as  their  own  bodies." 
And  why? 

Ver.  29.  "  For  no  man  ever  hated  his  own 
flesh,  but  nourisheth  and  cherisheth  it." 

That  is,  tends  it  with  exceeding  care.  And 
how  is  she  his  flesh  ?  Hearken ;  "  This  now  is 
bone  of  my  bones,"  saith  Adam,  "  and  flesh  of 
my  flesh."  (Gen.  ii.  23.)  For  she  is  made  of 
matter  taken  from  us.  And  not  only  so,  but 
also,  "  they  shall  be,"  saith  God,  "  one  flesh." 
(Gen.  ii.  24.) 

"  Even  as  Christ  also  the  Church."  Here  he 
returns  to  the  former  example. 

Ver.  30.  "Because  we  are  members  of  His 
body,  of  His  flesh  and  of  His  bones." * 

Ver.  31.  "  For  this  cause  shall  a  man  leave 
his  father  and  mother,  and  shall  cleave  to  his 
wife,  and  the  twain  shall  become  one  flesh." 2 

Behold  again  a  third  ground  of  obligation ; 
for  he  shows  that  a  man  leaving  them  that  be- 
gat him,  and  from  whom  he  was  born,  is  knit 
to  his  wife;  and  that  then  the  one  flesh  is, 
father,  and  mother,  and  the  child,  from  the  sub- 
stance of  the  two  commingled.  For  indeed  by 
the  commingling  of  their  seeds  is  the  child  pro- 
duced, so  that  the  three  are  one  flesh.  Thus 
then  are  we  in  relation  to  Christ ;  we  become 
one  flesh  by  participation,  and  we  much  more 
than  the  child.  And  why  and  how  so?  Be- 
cause so  it  has  been  from  the  beginning. 

Tell  me  not  that  such  and  such  things  are  so. 
Seest  thou  not  that  we  have  in  our  own  flesh 
itself  many  defects?  For  one  man,  for  in- 
stance, is  lame,  another  has  his  feet  distorted, 
another  his  hands  withered,  another  some  other 
member  weak ;  and  yet  nevertheless  he  does 
not  grieve  at  it,  nor  cut  it  off,  but  oftentimes 
prefers  it  even  to  the  other.  Naturally  enough  ; 
for  it  is  part  of  himself.  As  great  love  as  each 
entertains  towards  himself,  so  great  he  would 
have  us  entertain  towards  a  wife.  Not  because 
we  partake  of  the  same  nature  ;  no,  this  ground 
of  duty  towards  a  wife  is  far  greater  than  that ; 
it  is  that  there  are  not  two  bodies  but  one ;  he 
the  head,  she  the  body.  And  how  saith  he  else- 
where, "  and  the  Head  of  Christ  is  God "  ? 
(1  Cor.  xi.  3.)  This  I  too  say,  that  as  we  are 
one  body,  so  also  are  Christ  and  the  Father 
One.  And  thus  then  is  the  Father  also  found 
to  be  our  Head'.  He  sets  down  two  examples, 
that  of  the  natural  body  and  that  of  Christ's 
body.     And  hence  he  further  adds, 

1  [The  words,  "  of  bis  flesh  and  of  his  bones,"  are  omitted  by 
K#  A  B,  by  Memphitic  version,  by  Lach.  Tish.  Treg.  (text)  W.  & 
H.,  and  by  the  Rev.  Ver.  without  any  marginal  notice  whatever. — 
G.A.I 

*  [Meyer:  "  '  For  this  reason,'  namely,  because  we  are  members 
of  Christ's  body.  Paul  then  applies  what  is  spoken  in  Gen.  of  the 
union  of  husband  and  wife,  by  a  typical  interpretation,  to  the  second 
coming  (future,  jcaraActtlret)  of  Christ,  and  his  union  with  the  Church, 
which  shall  take  place  at  the  Parousia."  Ellicott  says  that  Chrysos- 
tom's  view  is  more  probable,  namely,  that  it  refers  to  Christ's  com- 
ing in  the  flesh.     (See  a  little  below,  on  ver.  3a.)  — G.  A.] 


Ver.  32.  "  This  is  great  mystery :  but  I  speak 
in  regard  of  Christ  and  of  the  Church."  8 

Why  does  he  call  it  a  great  mystery?  That 
it  was  something  great  and  wonderful,  the 
blessed  Moses,  or  rather  God,  intimated.  For 
the  present,  however,  saith  he,  I  speak  regard- 
ing Christ,  that  having  left  the  Father,  He  came 
down,  and  came  to  the  Bride,  and  became  one 
Spirit.  "  For  he  that  is  joined  unto  the  Lord  is 
one  Spirit."  (i  Cor.  vi.  17.)  And  well  saith 
he,  "it  is  a  great  mystery."  And  then  as 
though  he  were  saying,  "  But  still  nevertheless 
the  allegory  does  not  destroy  affection,"  he  adds, 

Ver.  33.  "  Nevertheless4  dp  ye  also  severally 
love  each  one  his  own  wife  even  as  himself;  and 
let  the  wife  see  that  she  fear  her  husband." 

For  indeed,  in  very  deed,  a*  mystery  it  is,  yea, 
a  great  mystery,  that  a  man  should  leave  him 
that  gave  him  being,  him  that  begat  him,  and 
that  brought  him  up,  and  her  that  travailed  with 
him  and  had  sorrow,  those  that  have  bestowed 
upon  him  so  many  and  great  benefits,  those 
with  whom  he  has  been  in  familiar  intercourse, 
and  be  joined  to  one  who  was  never  even  seen 
by  him  and  who  has  nothing  in  common  with 
him,  and  should  honor  her  before  all  others.  A 
mystery  it  is  indeed.  And  yet  are  parents  not 
distressed  when  these  events  take  place,  but 
rather,  when  they  do  not  take  place ;  and  are 
delighted  when  their  wealth  is  spent  and  lavished 
upon  it.  —  A  great  mystery  indeed  !  and  one 
that  contains  some  hidden  wisdom.  Such  Moses 
prophetically  showed  it  to  be  from  the  very  first  ; 
such  now  also  Paul  proclaims  it,  where  he  saith, 
"  concerning  Christ  and  the  Church." 

However  not  for  the  husband's  sake  alone  it 
is  thus  said,  but  for  the  wife's  sake  also,  that 
"  he  cherish  her  as  his  own  flesh,  as  Christ  also 
the  Church,"  and,  "  that  the  wife  fear  her  hus- 
band." He  is  no  longer  setting  down  the  duties 
of  love  only,  but  what?  "That  she  fear  her 
husband."  The  wife  is  a  second  authority;  let 
not  her  then  demand  equality,  for  she  is  under 
the  head ;  nor  let  him  despise  her  as  being  in 
subjection,  for  she  is  the  body ;  and  if  the  head 
despise  the  body,  it  will  itself  also  perish.  But 
let  him  bring  in  love  on  his  part  as  a  counter- 
poise to  obedience  on  her  part.  For  example, 
let  the  hands  and  the  feet,  and  all  the  rest  of 
the  members  be  given  up  for  service  to  the  head, 
but  let  the  head  provide  for  the  body,  seeing  it 
contains  every  sense  in  itself.  Nothing  can  be 
better  than  this  union. 

And  yet  how  can  there  ever  be  love,  one  may 

8  [This  seems  a  distinct  statement  on  the  part  of  the  Apostle, 
that  the  preceding  words  refer  not  to  actual  marriage  of  man  and 
woman,  but  to  the  nuptial  union  of  Christ  and  the  Church.  So 
Meyer.  But  Dr.  Riddle,  in  the  Popular  Commentary,  says  this 
"  mystical  interpretation  is  unsafe." —  G.  A.] 

4  [Nevertheless,  i.e.  not  to  press  the  mystical  bearings  of  the  sub- 
ject any  further.  —  Ellicott.  So  substantially  Meyer  and  Riddle.  — 
G.  A.] 


Homily  XX.] 


HOMILIES   ON    EPHESIANS. 


147 


say,  where  there  is  fear?     It  will  exist  there,  I 
say,  preeminently.    For  she  that  fears  and  rever- 
ences, loves  also ;  and  she  that  loves,  fears  and 
reverences  him  as  being  the  head,  and  loves  him 
as  being  a  member,  since  the  head  itself  is  a 
member  of  the  body  at  large.     Hence  he  places 
the  one  in  subjection,  and  the  other  in  authority, 
that  there  may  be  peace ;   for  where  there  is 
equal  authority  there  can  never  be  peace ;  neither 
where  a  house  is  a  democracy,  nor  where  all 
are  rulers ;  but  the  ruling  power  must  of  neces- 
sity be  one.     And  this  is  universally  the  case 
with  matters  referring  to  the  body,  inasmuch  as 
when  men  are  spiritual,  there  will  be  peace. 
There  were  "  five  thousand  souls,"  and  not  one 
of  them  said,  "  that  aught  of  the  things  which 
he  possessed  was  his  own"  (Acts  iv.  32),  but 
they  were  subject  one  to  another ;  an  indication 
this  of  wisdom,  and  of  the  fear  of  God.    The 
principle  of  love,  however,  he  explains ;  that  of 
fear  he  does  not.    And  mark,  how  on  that  of 
love  he  enlarges,  stating  the  arguments  relating 
to  Christ  and  those  relating  to  one's  own  flesh, 
the  words, "  For  this  cause  shall  a  man  leave  his 
father  and  mother."    (Ver.  31.)    Whereas  upon 
those  drawn  from  fear  he  forbears  to  enlarge. 
And  why  so?     Because  he  would  rather  that 
this  principle  prevail,  this,  namely,  of  love ;  for 
where   this    exists,  everything  else  follows  of 
course,  but  where  the  other  exists,  not  neces- 
sarily.   For  the  man  who  loves  his  wife,  even 
though  she  be  not  a  very  obedient  one,  still  will 
bear  with  everything.     So  difficult  and  imprac- 
ticable  is   unanimity,   where    persons   are  not 
bound  together  by  that  love  which  is  founded  in 
supreme  authority;  at  all  events,  fear  will  not 
necessarily  effect  this.     Accordingly,  he  dwells 
the  more  upon  this,  which  is  the  strong  tie.   And 
the  wife  though  seeming  to  be  the  loser  in  that 
she  was  charged  to  fear,  is  the  gainer,  because 
the  principal  duty,  love,  is  charged  upon  the 
husband.     "  But  what,"  one  may  say,  "  if  a  wife 
reverence  me  not  ?  "     Never  mind,  thou  art  to 
love,  fulfill  thine  own  duty.     For  though  that 
which  is  due  from  others  may  not  follow,  we 
ought  of  course  to  do  our  duty.     This  is  an 
example  of  what  I  mean.    He  says,  "  submitting 
yourselves  one  to  another  in  the  fear  of  Christ." 
And  what  then  if  another  submit  not  himself? 
Still  obey  thou  the  law  of  God.     Just  so,  I  say, 
is  it  also  here.     Let  the  wife  at  least,  though 
she  be  not  loved,  still  reverence  notwithstanding, 
that  nothing  may  lie  at  her  door;  and  let  the 
husband,  though  his  wife  reverence  him  not,  still 
show  her  love  notwithstanding,  that  he  himself 
be  not  wanting  in  any  point.     For  each  has 
received  his  own. 

This  then  is  marriage  when  it  takes  place 
according  to  Christ,  spiritual  marriage,  and  spir- 
itual birth,  not  of  blood,  nor  of  travail,  nor  of 


the  will  of  the  flesh.  Such  was  the  birth  of 
Christ,  not  of  blood,  nor  of  travail.  Such  also 
was  that  of  Isaac.  Hear  how  the  Scripture  saith, 
"  And  it  ceased  to  be  with  Sarah  after  the  man- 
ner of  women."  (Gen.  xviii.  n.)  Yea,  a  mar- 
riage it  is,  not  of  passion,  nor  of  the  flesh,  but 
wholly  spiritual,  the  soul  being  united  to  God 
by  a  union  unspeakable,  and  which  He  alone 
knoweth.  Therefore  he  saith, "  He  that  is  joined 
unto  the  Lord  is  one  spirit."  (1  Cor.  vi.  17.) 
Mark  how  earnestly  he  endeavors  to  unite  both 
flesh  with  flesh,  and  spirit  with  spirit.  And 
where  are  the  heretics?1  Never  surely,  if  mar- 
riage were  a  thing  to  be  condemned,  would  he 
have  called  Christ  and  the  Church  a  bride  and 
bridegroom ;  never  would  he  have  brought  for- 
ward by  way  of  exhortation  the  words,  "  A  man 
shall  leave  his  father  and  his  mother " ;  and 
again  have  added,  that  it  was  "  spoken  in  regard 
of  Christ  and  of  the  Church."  For  of  her  it  is 
that  the  Psalmist  also  saith, "  Hearken,  O  daugh- 
ter, and  consider,  and  incline  thine  ear ;  forget 
also  thine  own  people,  and  thy  father's  house. 
So  shall  the  king  desire  thy  beauty."  (Ps.  xlv. 
10,  n.)  Therefore  also  Christ  saith,  "I  came 
out  from  the  Father,  and  am  come."  (John  xvi. 
28.)  But  when  I  say,  that  He  left  the  Father, 
imagine  not  such  a  thing  as  happens  among 
men,  a  change  of  place ;  for  just  in  the  same 
way  as  the  word  "go  forth"  is  used,  not  because 
He  literally  came  forth,  but  because  of  His 
incarnation,  so  also  is  the  expression,  "  He  left 
the  Father." 

Now  why  did  he  not  say  of  the  wife  also,  She 
shall  be  joined  unto  her  husband  ?  Why,  I  say, 
is  this?  Because  he  was  discoursing  concerning 
love,  and  was  discoursing  to  the  husband.  For 
to  her  indeed  he  discourses  concerning  rever- 
ence, and  says,  "  the  husband  is  the  head  of  the 
wife  "  (ver.  23),  and  again,  "Christ  is  the  Head 
of  the  Church."  Whereas  to  him  he  discourses 
concerning  love,  and  commits  to  him  this  prov- 
ince of  love,  and  declares  to  him  that  which 
pertains  to  love,  thus  binding  him  and  cement- 
ing him  to  her.  For  the  man  that  leaves  his 
father  for  the  sake  of  his  wife,  and  then  again, 
leaves  this  very  wife  herself  and  abandons  her, 
what  forbearance  can  he  deserve  ? 

Seest  thou  not  how  great  a  share  of  honor 
God  would  have  her  enjoy,  in  that  he  hath  taken 
thee  away  from  thy  father,  and  hath  linked  thee 
to  her?  What  then,  a  man  may  say,  if  our  duty 
is  done,  and  yet  she  does  not  follow  the  exam- 
ple ?  "  Yet  if  the  unbelieving  departeth,  let  him 
depart ;  the  brother  or  the  sister  is  not  under 
bondage  in  such  cases."     (1  Cor.  vii.  15.) 

1  The  Gnostics,  Encratites  (Schaff,  Church  Hist.  II.  p.  195),  and 
other  sects  forbade  marriage;  vid.  1  Tim.  iv.  3.  Here  the  Marcion- 
ites  seem  to  be  intended,  whom  St.  Chrysostom  often  mentions;  vid. 
supr.  Horn.  xix.  [See  SchafFs  Church  //is/.,  Vol.  II.,  p.  457.  — 
G.A.] 


148 


WORKS   OF   ST.    CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  XX. 


However,  when  thou  hearest  of  "fear,"  de- 
mand that  fear  which  becomes  a  free  woman, 
not  as  though  thou  wert  exacting  it  of  a  slave. 
For  she  is  thine  own  body ;  and  if  thou  do  this, 
thou  reproachest  thyself  in  dishonoring  thine  own 
body.  And  of  what  nature  is  this  "  fear  "  ?  It 
is  the  not  contradicting,  the  not  rebelling,  the 
not  being  fond  of  the  preeminence.  It  is  enough 
that  fear  be  kept  within  these  bounds.  But  if 
thou  love,  as  thou  art  commanded,  thou  wilt  make 
it  yet  greater.  Or  rather  it  will  not  be  any  longer 
by  fear  that  thou  wilt  be  doing  this,  but  love 
itself  will  have  its  effect.  The  sex  is  somehow 
weaker,  and  needs  much  support,  much  conde- 
scension. 

But  what  will  they  say,  who  are  knit  together 
in  second  marriages?1  I  speak  not  at  all  in 
condemnation  of  them,  God  forbid ;  for  the 
Apostle  himself  permits  them,  though  indeed 
by  way  of  condescension. 

Supply  her  with  everything.  Do  everything 
and  endure  trouble  for  her  sake.  Necessity  is 
laid  upon  thee. 

Here  he  does  not  think  it  right  to  introduce 
his  counsel,  as  he  in  many  cases  does,  with  ex- 
amples from  them  that  are  without.  That  of 
Christ,  so  great  and  forcible,  were  alone  enough ; 
and  more  especially  as  regards  the  argument  of 
subjection.  "  A  man  shall  leave,"  he  saith,  "  his 
father  and  mother."  Behold,  this  then  is  from 
without.  But  he  does  not  say,  and  "  shall  dwell 
with,"  but  "  shall  cleave  unto,"  thus  showing  the 
closeness  of  the  union,  and  the  fervent  love.  Nay, 
he  is  not  content  with  this,  but  further  by  what 
he  adds,  he  explains  the  subjection  in  such  a  way 
as  that  the  twain  appear  no  longer  twain.  He 
does  not  say,  "  one  spirit,"  he  does  not  say,  "  one 
soul"  (for  that  is  manifest,  and  is  possible  to 
any  one),  but  so  as  to  be  "  one  flesh."  She  is  a 
second  authority,  possessing  indeed  an  author- 
ity, and  a  considerable  equality  of  dignity ;  but 
at  the  same  time  the  husband  has  somewhat  of 
superiority.  In  this  consists  most  chiefly  the 
well-being  of  the  house.  For  he  took  that  for- 
mer argument,  the  example  of  Christ,  to  show 
that  we  ought  not  only  to  love,  but  also  to  gov- 
ern; "that  she  may  be,"  saith  he,  "holy  and 
without  blemish."  But  the  word  "  flesh  "  has 
reference  to  love  —  and  the  word  "  shall  cleave  " 
has  in  like  manner  reference  to  love.  For  if 
thou  shalt  make  her  "holy  and  without  blem- 
ish," everything  else  will  follow.  Seek  the  things 
which  are  of  God,  and  those  which  are  of  man 
will  follow  readily  enough.  Govern  thy  wife,  and 
thus  will  the  whole  house  be  in  harmony.  Hear 
what  Paul  saith.  "  And  if  they  would  learn  any 
thing,  let  them  ask  their  own  husbands  at  home." 
(1  Cor.  xiv.  35.)     If  we  thus  regulate  our  own 

1  [On  second  marriages  in  the  early  Church,  see  SchafFs  History 
of  tht  Christian  Church,  Vol.  II.,  p.  366. — G.  A.] 


houses,  we  shall  be  also  fit  for  the  management 
of  the  Church.  For  indeed  a  house  is  a  little 
Church.  Thus  it  is  possible  for  us  by  becoming 
good  husbands  and  wives,  to  surpass  all  others. 

Consider  Abraham,  and  Sarah,  and  Isaac,  and 
the  three  hundred  and  eighteen  born  in  his 
house.  (Gen.  xiv.  14.)  How  the  whole  house 
was  harmoniously  knit  together,  how  the  whole 
was  full  of  piety  and  fulfilled  the  Apostolic  in- 
junction. She  also  "  reverenced  her  husband  "  ; 
for  hear  her  own  words,  "  It  hath  not  yet 
happened  unto  me  even  until  now,  and  my 
lord  is  old  also."  (Gen.  xviii.  12.)2  And  he 
again  so  loved  her,  that  in  all  things  he  obeyed 
her  commands.  And  the  young  child  was  vir- 
tuous, and  the  servants  born  in  the  house,  they 
too  were  so  excellent  that  they  refused  not  even 
to  hazard  their  lives  with  their  master ;  they 
delayed  not,  nor  asked  the  reason.  Nay,  one 
of  them,  the  chief,  was  so  admirable,  that  he 
was  even  entrusted  with  the  marriage  of  the 
only-begotten  child,  and  with  a  journey  into  a 
foreign  country.  (Gen.  xxiv.  1-67.)  For  just  as 
with  a  general,  when  his  soldiery  also  is  well  or- 
ganized, the  enemy  has  no  quarter  to  attack  ;  so, 
I  say,  is  it  also  here  :  when  husband  and  wife  and 
children  and  servants  are  all  interested  in  the 
same  things,  great  is  the  harmony  of  the  house. 
Since  where  this  is  not  the  case,  the  whole  is 
oftentimes  overthrown  and  broken  up  by  one 
bad  servant ;  and  that  single  one  will  often  mar 
and  utterly  destroy  the  whole. 

Moral.  Let  us  then  be  very  thoughtful  both 
for  our  wives,  and  children,  and  servants ;  know- 
ing that  we  shall  thus  be  establishing  for  ourselves 
an  easy  government,  and  shall  have  our  accounts 
with  them  gentle  and  lenient,  and  say,  "  Behold 
I,  and  the  children  which  God  hath  given  me." 
( Isa.  viii.  18.)  If  the  husband  command  respect, 
and  the  head  be  honorable,  then  will  the  rest  of 
the  body  sustain  no  violence.  Now  what  is  the 
wife's  fitting  behavior,  and  what  the  husband's, 
he  states  accurately,  charging  her  to  reverence 
him  as  the  head,  and  him  to  love  her  as  a  wife ; 
but  how,  it  may  be  said,  can  these  things  be? 
That  they  ought  indeed  so  to  be,  he  has  proved. 
But  how  they  can  be  so,  I  will  tell  you.  They 
will  be  so,  if  we  will  despise  money,  if  we  will 
look  but  to  one  thing  only,  excellence  of  soul, 
if  we  will  keep  the  fear  of  God  before  our  eyes. 
For  what  he  says  in  his  discourse  to  servants, 
"  whatsoever  any  man  doeth,  whether  it  be  good 
or  evil,  the  same  shall  he  receive  of  the  Lord  " 
(Eph.  vi.  8)  ;  this  is  also  the  case  here.  Love 
her  therefore  not  for  her  sake  so  much  as  for 
Christ's  sake.     This,  at  least,  he  as  much  as 


*  [This,  according  to  the  Sepluagint,  which  has  ovitm  per  pot 
yiyovtv  ewe  rov  vvv.  6  Si  itvpto*  pov  nptafivripos.  The  Rev. 
Ver.,  following  the  Hebrew,  has.  "After  I  am  waxed  old,  shall 
I  have  pleasure,  my  lord  being  old  also?" — G.  A. J 


Homily  XX.] 


HOMILIES   ON   EPHESIANS. 


I51 


intimates,  in  saying,  "as  unto  the  Lord."  So 
then  do  everything,  as  in  obedience  to  the  Lord, 
and  as  doing  everything  for  His  sake.  This 
were  enough  to  induce  and  to  persuade  us,  and 
jot  to  suffer  that  there  should  be  any  teasing 
and  dissension.  Let  none  be  believed  when 
slandering  the  husband  to  his  wife ;  no,  nor  let 
the  husband  believe  anything  at  random  against 
the  wife,  nor  let  the  wife  be  without  reason  in- 
quisitive about  his  goings  out  and  his  comings 
in.  No,  nor  on  any  account  let  the  husband 
ever  render  himself  worthy  of  any  suspicion 
whatever.  For  what,  tell  me,  what  if  thou  shait 
devote  thyself  all  the  day  to  thy  friends,  and 
give  the  evening  to  thy  wife,  and  not  even  thus 
be  able  to  content  her,  and  place  her  out  of 
reach  of  suspicion  ?  Though  thy  wife  complain, 
yet  be  not  annoyed  —  it  is  her  love,  not  her 
folly — they  are  the  complaints  of  fervent  attach- 
ment, and  burning  affection,  and  fear.  Yes, 
she  is  afraid  lest  any  one  have  stolen  her 
marriage  bed,  lest  any  one  have  injured  her  in 
that  which  is  the  summit  of  her  blessings,  lest 
any  one  have  taken  away  from  her  him  who  is 
her  head,  lest  any  one  have  broken  through  her 
marriage  chamber. 

There  is  also  another  ground  of  petty  jealousy. 
Let  neither  claim  too  much  service  of  the  ser- 
vants, neither  the  husband  from  the  maid-ser- 
vant, nor  the  wife  from  the  man-servant     For 
these  things  also  are  enough  to  beget  suspicion. 
For  consider,  I  say,  that  righteous  household  I 
spoke  of.     Sarah  herself  bade  the  patriarch  take 
Hagar.    She  herself  directed  it,  no  one  com- 
pelled her,  nor  did  the  husband *  attempt  it ; 
no,  although  he  had  dragged  on  so  long  a  period 
childless,  yet    he   chose   never   to   become    a 
father,  rather  than  to  grieve  his  wife.     And  yet 
even  after  all   this,  what  said   Sarah?    "The 
Lord  judge  between  me  and  thee."     (Gen.  xvi. 
5.)    Now,  I  say,  had  he  been  any  one  else, 
would  he    not   have    been    moved    to    anger? 
Would  he  not  also   have   stretched   forth   his 
hand,  saying  as  it  were,  "  What  meanest  thou  ? 
I  had  no  desire  to  have  anything  to  do  with  the 
woman ;  it  was  all  thine  own  doing ;  and  dost 
thou  turn  again  and  accuse  me?"  —  But  no,  he 
says  nothing  of  the  sort ;  —  but  what  ?    "  Be- 
hold, thy  maid  is  in  thy  hand ;  do  to  her  that 
which  is  good  in  thine  eyes."     (Gen.  xvi.  6.) 
He  delivered  up  the  partner  of  his  bed,  that  he 
might  not  grieve  Sarah.     And  yet  surely  is  there 
nothing  greater  than  this  for  producing  affec- 
tion.   For  if  partaking  of  the  same  table  pro- 
duces unanimity  even  in  robbers  towards  their 
foes,  (and  the  Psalmist 2  saith,  "  Who  didst  eat 


1  [The  punctuation  of  Field :  ovoe  iwiXBtv  •  o  a.vr\p,  &c,  is  clearly 
so  good  as  that  of  the  Oxford  translator:  ovoc  ciri}A0ev  6  «vi)p, 
ftc-G.A.] 

*  [The  Septuagint  reads*  6*  cVt  to  avro  eyAva«y«f  c&o-para,  and 


r     .  x     .  duties   too."     Then 

sweet  food  at  the  sam*  table  nrse  the  Apostle's 
more  will  the  becoming  one  ^ve  our  aflec. 
is  the    being    the    partner    of     Ko  the  Scri 

effectual   to   draw  us  together.     Yw^ii  «  ™5L 
-    .  .  .  ..     &  ^aii  a  man 

of  these  things  avail  to  overcome   ^  to  n- 
he   delivered   Hagar  up  to  his  wife,   ttTrow_ 
that  nothing  had  been  done  by  his  own  i*ue 
Nay,  and  what  is  more,  he  sent  her  forth  whts 
with  child.     Who  would  not  have  pitied  one 
that  had  conceived  a  child  by  himself?    Yet 
was  the  just  man  unmoved,  for  he  set  before 
everything  else  the  love  he  owed  his  wife. 

Let  us  then  imitate  him  ourselves.  Let  no 
one  reproach  his  neighbor  with  his  poverty ;  let 
no  one  be  in  love  with  money;  and  then  all 
difficulties  will  be  at  an  end. 

Neither  let  a  wife  say  to  her  husband,  "  Un- 
manly coward  that  thou  art,  full  of  sluggishness 
and  dullness,  and  fast  asleep  !  here  is  such  a 
one,  a  low  man,  and  of  low  parentage,  who  runs 
his  risks,  and  makes  his  voyages,  and  has  made 
a  good  fortune ;  and  his  wife  wears  her  jewels, 
and  goes  out  with  her  pair  of  milk-white  mules  ;8 
she  rides  about  everywhere,  she  has  troops  of 
slaves,  and  a  swarm  of  eunuchs,  but  thou  hast 
cowered  down  and  livest  to  no  purpose."  Let 
not  a  wife  say  these  things,  nor  anything  like 
them.  For  she  is  the  body,  not  to  dictate  to  the 
head,  but  to  submit  herself  and  obey.  "But 
how,"  some  one  will  say,  "  is  slie  to  endure  pov- 
erty^ Where  is  she  to  look  for  consolation?" 
Let  her  select  and  put  beside  her  those  who  are 
poorer  still.  Let  her  again  consider  how  many 
noble  and  high-born  maidens  have  not  only  re- 
ceived nothing  of  their  husbands,  but  have  even 
given  dowries  to  them,  and  have  spent  their  all 
upon  them.  Let  her  reflect  on  the  perils  which 
arise  from  such  riches,  and  she  will  cling  to  this 
quiet  life.  In  short,  if  she  is  affectionately  dis- 
posed towards  her  husband,  she  will  utter  noth- 
ing of  the  sort.  No,  she  will  rather  choose 
to  have  him  near  her,  though  gaining  nothing, 
than  gaining  ten  thousand  talents  of  gold,  accom- 
panied with  that  care  and  anxiety  which  always 
arise  to  wives  from  those  distant  voyages. 

Neither,  however,  let  the  husband,  when  he 
hears  these  things,  on  the  score  of  his  having  the 
supreme  authority,  betake  himself  to  reviiings 
and  to  blows ;  but  let  him  exhort,  let  him  ad- 
monish her,  as  being  less  perfect,  let  him  per- 
suade her  with  arguments.  Let  him  never  once 
lift  his  hand,  —  far  be  this  from  a  noble  spirit, — 
no,  nor  give  expression  to  insults,  or  taunts,  or 
reviiings  ;  but  let  him  regulate  and  direct  her  as 
being  wanting  in  wisdom.     Yet  how  shall  this  be 


this  Chrysostom,  not  knowing  Hebrew,  follows.     The  Rev.  Ver.  has 
"  We  took  sweet  counsel  together."  —  G.  A.] 

*  So  Demosthenes  says  of  Midias,  <toi  ei«  pvdmjpta  ttjv  ywaitca 
aytit  k*v  aAAoo-c  wot  0ouAirrat,  c*i  tow  Acvkov  £«vyov*  tow  ck  2t«v«i>- 
vos.    Dem.  in  Mid.  p.  565. 


/ 


148 


y 


OF   ST.    CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  XX. 


However,  when  ty 
mand  that  fear  w>^ 
not  as  though  tHj>  ~ 
For  she  is  thrEr  g.  g 
thou  repro?*  ^  rt  1  n> 

is  the     J;  ■w-o-*t  *• 


I 


no* 


<a 


r>  vi 


£0  cro 


I 


en    & 

C    C 


.**»  .*■»  i  g  g  5T  D.  o 


«    ST3- 


VO 


IVtt%» 


the  very  threshold. 


e  riches, 
make  no 
her  then, 
h  her,  not 
t  he  does, 
and  then 
will  -desire 
he  had  an 
d,  let  him, 
rst  receives 
er  temper- 
g  down  the 
»t,  and  from 
Let  liim  discipline  her  in 
wisdom,  and  advise  her  never  to  have  bits  of  gold 
hanging  at  her  ears,  and  down  her  cheeks,  and 
laid  round  about  her  neck,  nor  laid  up  about  the 
chamber,  nor  golden  and  costly  garments  stored 
up.  But  let  her  chamber  be  handsome,  still  let 
not  what  is  handsome  degenerate  into  finery. 
No,  leave  these  things  to  the  people  of  the  stage. 
Adorn  thine  house  thyself  with  all  possible  neat- 
ness, so  as  rather  to  breathe  an  air  of  soberness 
than  much  perfume.  For  hence  will  arise  two 
or  three  good  results.  First  then,  the  bride  will 
not  be  grieved,  when  the  apartments  are  opened, 
and  the  tissues,  and  the  golden  ornaments,  and 
silver  vessels,  are  sent  back  to  their  several 
owners.  Next,  the  bridegroom  will  have  no 
anxiety  about  the*  loss,  nor  for  the  security  of 
the  accumulated  treasures.  Thirdly  again,  in 
addition  to  this,  which  is  the  crown  of  all  these 
benefits,  by  these  very  points  he  will  be  showing 
his  own  judgment,  that  indeed  he  has  no  pleasure 
in  any  of  these  things,  and  that  he  will  moreover 
put  an  end  to  everything  else  in  keeping  with 
them,  and  will  never  so  much  as  allow  the  exist- 
ence either  of  dances,  or  of  immodest  songs, 
am  aware  that  I  shall  appear  perhaps  ridiculous 
to  many  persons,  in  giving  such  admonitions. 
Still  nevertheless,  if  ye  will  but  listen  to  me,  as 
time  goes  on,  and  the  benefit  of  the  practice 
accrues  to  you,  then  ye  will  understand  the  ad- 
vantage of  it.  And  the  laughter  will  pass  off, 
and  ye  will  laugh  at  the  present  fashion,  and  will 
see  that  the  present  practice  is  really  that  of 
silly  children  and  of  drunken  men.  Whereas 
what  I  recommend  is  the  part  of  soberness,  and 
wisdom,  and  of  the  sublimest  way  of  life.  What 
then  do  I  say  is  our  duty?  Take  away  from 
marriage  all  those  shameful,  those  Satanic,  those 
immodest  songs,  those  companies  of  profligate 
young  people,  and  this  will  avail  to  chasten  the 
spirit  of  thy  bride.1  For  she  will  at  once  thus 
reason  with  herself ;  "  Wonderful !  What  a  phi- 
losopher this  man  is  !  he  regards  the  present  life 

1  [In  Horn.  XII.  on  i  Cor.  iv.  10,  Chrysostom  says,  4I  But  when 
marriages  are  solemnized,  dancing  and  cymbals  and  flutes  and  shame- 
ful words  and  songs  and  drunkenness  and  revelings  and  the  Devil's 
great  heap  of  trash  are  introduced."  And  much  more  to  the  same 
effect  and  in  great  detail.  —  G.  A.] 


as  nothing,  he  has  brought  me  here  into  his 
house,  to  be  a  mother,  to  bring  up  his  children, 
to  manage  his  household  affairs."  "Yes,  but 
these  things  are  distasteful  to  a  bride?"  Just  for 
the  first  or  second  day ;  —  but  not  afterwards ; 
nay,  she  will  even  reap  from  them  the  greatest 
delight,  and  relieve  herself  of  all  suspicion.  For 
a  man  who  can  endure  neither  flute-players,  nor 
dancers,  nor  broken  songs,2  and  that  too  at  the 
very  time  of  his  wedding,  that  man  will  scarcely 
endure  ever  to  do  or  say  anything  shameful. 
And  then  after  this,  when  thou  hast  stripped  the 
marriage  of  all  these  things,  then  take  her,  and 
form  and  mould  her  carefully,  encouraging  her 
bashfulness  to  a  considerable  length  of  time,  and 
not  destroying  it  suddenly.  For  even  if  the 
damsel  be  very  bold,  yet  for  a  time  she  will  keep 
silence  out  of  reverence  for  her  husband,  and 
feeling  herself  a  novice  in  the  circumstances. 
Thou  then  break  not  off  this  reserve  too  hastily, 
as  unchaste  husbands  do,  but  encourage  it  for  a 
long  time.  For  this  will  be  a  great  advantage  to 
thee.  Meanwhile  she  will  not  complain,  she  will 
not  find  fault  with  any  laws  thou  mayest  frame 
for  her.  During  that  time  therefore,  during 
which  shame,  like  a  sort  of  bridle  laid  upon  the 
soul,  suffers  her  not  to  make  any  murmur,  nor 
to  complain  of  what  is  done,  lay  down  all  thy 
laws.  For  as  soon  as  ever  she  acquires  bold- 
ness, she  will  overturn  and  confound  everything 
without  any  sense  of  fear.  When  is  there  then 
another  time  so  advantageous  for  moulding  a 
wife,  as  that  during  which  she  reverences  her 
husband,  and  is  still  timid,  and  still  shy?  Then 
lay  down  all  thy  laws  for  her,  and  willing  or  un- 
willing, she  will  certainly  obey  them.  But  how 
shalt  thou  help  spoiling  her  modesty  ?  By  show- 
ij-ing  her  that  thou  thyself  art  no  less  modest  than 
she  is,  addressing  to  her  but  few  words,  and 
those  too  with  great  gravity  and  collectedness. 
Then  entrust  her  with  the  discourses  of  wisdom, 
for  her  soul  will  receive  them.  And  establish 
her  in  that  loveliest  habit,  I  mean  modesty.  If 
you  wish  me,  I  will  also  tell  you  by  way  of  speci- 
men, what  sort  of  language  should  be  addressed 
to  her.  For  if  Paul  shrank  not  from  saying, 
"  Defraud  ye  not  one  the  other"  (2  Cor.  vii.  5), 
and  spoke  the  language  of  a  bridesmaid,  or 
rather  not  of  a  bridesmaid,  but  of  a  spiritual 
soul,  much  more  will  not  we  shrink  from  speak- 
ing. What  then  is  the  language  we  ought  to 
address  to  her?  With  great  delicacy  then  we 
may  say  to  her,  "  I  have  taken  thee,  my  child,  to 
be  partner  of  my  life,  and  have  brought  thee  in 
to  share  with  me  in  the  closest  and  most  honor- 
able ties,  in  my  children,  and  the  superinten- 
dence of  my  house.  And  what  advice  then 
shall  I  now  recommend  thee?"  But  rather, 
first  talk  with  her  of  your  love  for  her ;    for 

*  iafiiruv  ictickaa'tt.ivtav. 


Homily  XX.] 


HOMILIES   ON   EPHESIANS. 


I5I 


there  is  nothing  that  so  contributes  to  persuade 
a  hearer  to  admit  sincerely  the  things  that  are 
said,  as  to  be  assured  that  they  are  said  with 
hearty  affection.  How  then  art  thou  to  show 
that  affection  ?  By  saying,  "  when  it  was  in  my 
power  to  take  many  to  wife,  both  with  better 
fortunes,  and  of  noble  family,  I  did  not  so 
choose,  but  I  was  enamoured  of  thee,  and  thy 
beautiiul  life,  thy  modesty,  thy  gentleness,  and 
soberness  of  mind."  Then  immediately  from 
these  beginnings  open  the  way  to  your  dis- 
course on  true  wisdom,  and  with  some  circum- 
locution make  a  protest  against  riches.  For 
if  you  direct  your  argument  at  once  against 
riches,  you  will  bear  too  heavily  upon  her ;  but 
if  you  do  it  by  taking  an  occasion,  you  will 
succeed  entirely.  For  you  will  appear  to  be 
doing  it  in  the  way  of  an  apology,  not  as  a 
morose  sort  of  person,  and  ungracious,  and 
over-nice  about  trifles.  But  when  you  take 
occasion  from  what  relates  to  herself,  she  will 
be  even  pleased.  You  will  say  then,  (for  I 
must  now  take  up  the  discourse  again,)  that 
"  whereas  I  might  have  married  a  rich  woman, 
and  with  good  fortune,  I  could  not  endure  it. 
And  why  so?  Not  capriciously,  and  without 
reason;  but  I  was  taught  well  and  truly,  that 
money  is  no  real  possession,  but  a  most  despi- 
cable thing,  a  thing  which  moreover  belongs  as 
well  to  thieves,  and  to  harlots,  and  to  grave- 
robbers.  So  I  gave  up  these  things,  and  went 
on  till  I  fell  in  with  the  excellence  of  thy  soul, 
which  I  value  above  all  gold.  For  a  young 
damsel  who  is  discreet  and  ingenuous,  and 
whose  heart  is  set  on  piety,  is  worth  the  whole 
world.  For  these  reasons  then,  I  courted  thee, 
and  I  love  thee,  and  prefer  thee  to  my  own 
soul.  For  the  present  life  is  nothing.  And  I 
pray,  and  beseech,  and  do  all  I  can,  that  we 
may  be  counted  worthy  so  to  live  this  present 
life,  as  that  we  may  be  able  also  there  in  the 
world  to  come  to  be  united  to  one  another  in 
perfect  security.  For  our  time  here  is  brief 
and  fleeting.  But  if  we  shall  be  counted  worthy 
by  having  pleased  God  to  so  exchange  this  life 
for  that  one,  then  shall  we  ever  be  both  with 
Christ  and  with  each  other,  with  more  abundant 
pleasure.  I  value  thy  affection  above  ail  things, 
and  nothing  is  so  bitter  or  so  painful  to  me,  as 
ever  to  be  at  variance  with  thee.  Yes,  though 
it  should  be  my  lot  to  lose  my  all,  and  to  be- 
come poorer  than  Irus,1  and  undergo  the  ex- 
tremest  hazards,  and  suffer  any  pain  whatsoever, 
all  will  be  tolerable  and  endurable,  so  long  as 
thy  feelings  are  true  towards  me.  And  then 
will  my  children  be  most  dear  to  me,  whilst 
thou  art  affectionately   disposed   towards   me. 

1  [The  well-known  beggar  of  Ithaca,  the  home  of  Ulysses.  He 
•*•  the  messenger  of  the  suitors  of  Penelope.  See  Odys.  Bk.  xviii. 
1-125.  Later,  nis  name  was  used  as  an  appellation,  "an  Irus,  a 
beggar."    Liban  i.  568.  —  LiddeU  and  Scott.  —  G.  A.] 


But  thou  must  do  these  duties  too."  Then 
mingle  also  with  your  discourse  the  Apostle's 
words,  that  "  thus  God  would  have  our  affec- 
tions blended  together ;  for  listen  to  the  Scrip- 
ture, which  saith,  '  For  this  cause  shall  a  man 
leave  his  father  and  mother,  and  cleave  to  his 
wife.'  Let  us  have  no  pretext  for  narrow- 
minded  jealousy.2  Perish  riches,  and  retinue 
of  slaves,  and  ail  your  outward  pomps.  To  me 
this  is  more  valuable  than  all."  What  weight 
of  gold,  what  amount  of  treasures,  are  so  dear 
to  a  wife  as  these  words?  Never  fear  that 
because  she  is  beloved  she  will  ever  rave  against 
thee,  but  confess  that  thou  lovest  her.  For 
courtezans  indeed,  who  now  attach  themselve$ 
to  one  and  now  to  another,  would  naturally 
enough  feel  contempt  towards  their  lovers, 
should  they  hear  such  expressions  as  these; 
but  a  free-born  wife  or  a  noble  damsel  would 
never  be  so  affected  with  such  words ;  no,  she 
will  be  so  much  the  more  subdued.  Show  her 
too,  that  you  set  a  high  value  on  her  com- 
pany, and  that  you  are  more  desirous  to  be 
at  home  for  her  sake,  than  in  the  market-place. 
And  esteem  her  before  all  your  friends,  and 
above  the  children  that  are  born  of  her,  and  let 
these  very  children  be  beloved  by  thee  for  her 
sake.  If  she  does  any  good  act,  praise  and 
admire  it ;  if  any  foolish  one,  and  such  as  girls 
may  chance  to  do,  advise  her  and  remind  her. 
Condemn  out  and  out  all  riches  and  extrava- 
gance, and  gently  point  out  the  ornament  that 
there  is  in  neatness  and  in  modesty ;  and  be 
continually  teaching  her  the  things  that  are 
profitable. 

Let  your  prayers  be  common.8  Let  each  go 
to  Church  ;  and  let  the  husband  ask  his  wife  at 
home,  and  she  again  ask  her  husband,  the  ac- 
count of  the  things  which  were  said  and  read 
there.  If  any  poverty  should  overtake  you,  cite 
the  case  of  those  holy  men,  Paul  and  Peter, 
who  were  more  honored  than  any  kings  or  rich 
men ;  and  yet  how  they  spent  their  lives,  in 
hunger  and  in  thirst.  Teach  her  that  there  is 
nothing  in  life  that  is  to  be  feared,  save  only 
offending  against  God.  If  any  marry  thus,  with 
these  views,  he  will  be  but  little  inferior  to 
monks ;  the  married  but  little  below  the  un- 
married. 

If  thou  hast  a  mind  to  give  dinners,  and  to 
make  entertainments,  let  there  be  nothing  im- 
modest, nothing  disorderly.  If  thou  shouldest 
find  any  poor  saint  able  to  bless  your  house, 
able  only  just  by  setting  his  foot  in  it  to  bring 
in  the  whole  blessing  of  God,  invite  him.  And 
shall"  I  say  moreover  another  thing?  Let  no 
one  of  you  make  it  his  endeavor  to  marry  a  rich 

s  fxiKpoil/v\i.a. 

8  [For  a  picture  of  family  life  drawn  bv  Clement  of  Alexandria, 
and  another  drawn  by  Tertullian,  see  Schaff,  Church  History^  Vol. 
II.,  p.  364.  —  G.  A.] 


152 


WORKS   OF   ST.  CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  XX. 


woman,  but  much  rather  a  poor  one.  When 
she  comes  in,  she  will  not  bring  so  great  a 
source  of  pleasure  from  her  riches,  as  she  will 
annoyance  from  her  taunts,  from  her  demand- 
ing more  than  she  brought,  from  her  insolence, 
her  extravagance,  her  vexatious  language.  For 
she  will  say  perhaps,  "  I  have  not  yet  spent  any- 
thing of  thine,  I  am  still  wearing  my  own  ap- 
parel, bought  with  what  my  parents  settled 
upon  me."  What  sayest  thou,  O  woman  ?  Still 
wearing  thine  own !  And  what  can  be  more 
miserable  than  this  language?  Why,  thou  hast 
no  longer  a  body  of  thine  own,  and  hast  thou 
money  of  thine  own  ?  After  marriage  ye  are  no 
longer  twain,  but  are  become  one  flesh,  and  are 
then  your  possessions  twain,  and  not  one  ?  Oh  ! 
this  love  of  money  !  Ye  both  are  become  one 
man,  one  living  creature;  and  dost  thou  still 
say  "mine  own"?  Cursed  and  abominable 
word  that  it  is,  it  was  brought  in  by  the  devil. 
Things  far  nearer  and  dearer  to  us  than  these 
hath  God  made  all  common  to  us,  and  are  these 
then  not  common?  We  cannot  say,  "my  own 
light,  my  own  sun,  my  own  water":  all  our 
greater  blessings  are  common,  and  are  riches 
not  common  ?  Perish  the  riches  ten  thousand 
times  over !  Or  rather  not  the  riches,  but 
those  tempers  of  mind  which  know  not  how  to 
make  use  of  riches,  but  esteem  them  above  all 
things. 

Teach  her  these  lessons  also  with  the  rest,  but 
with  much  graciousness.  For  since  the  recom- 
mendation of  virtue  has  in  itself  much  that  is 
stern,  and  especially  to  a  young  and  tender  dam- 
sel, whenever  discourses  on  true  wisdom  are  to 
be  made,  contrive  that  your  manner  be  full  of 
grace  and  kindness.  And  above  all  banish  this 
notion  from  her  soul,  of  "  mine  and  thine."  If 
she  say  the  word  "  mine,"  say  unto  her,  "  What 
things  dost  thou  call  thine  ?  For  in  truth  I  know 
not ;  I  for  my  part  have  nothing  of  mine  own. 
How  then  speakest  thou  of '  mine,'  when  all  things 
are  thine?"  Freely  grant  her  the  word.  Dost 
thou  not  perceive  that  such  is  our  practice  with 
children?  When,  whilst  we  are  holding  any- 
thing, a  child  snatches  it,  and  wishes  again  to 
get  hold  of  some  other  thing,  we  allow  it,  and 
say,  "  Yes,  and  this  is  thine,  and  that  is  thine." 
The  same  also  let  us  do  with  a  wife ;  for  her 
temper  is  more  or  less  like  a  child's  ;  and  if  she 
says  "  mine,"  say,  "  why,  everything  is  thine,  and 
I  am  thine."  Nor  is  the  expression  one  of  flat- 
tery, but  of  exceeding  wisdom.  Thus  wilt  thou 
be  able  to  abate  her  wrath,  and  put  an  end  to 
her  disappointment.     For  it  is  flattery  when  a 


man  does  an  unworthy  act  with  an  evil  object : 
whereas  this  is  the  highest  philosophy.  Say 
then,  "  Even  I  am  thine,  my  child  ;  this  advice 
Paul  gives  me  where  he  says,  '  The  husband 
hath  not  power  over  his  own  body,  but  the 
wife.'  (i  Cor.  vii.  4.)  If  I  have  no  power 
over  my  body,  but  thou  hast,  much  more  hast 
thou  over  my  possessions."  By  saying  these 
things  thou  wilt  have  quieted  her,  thou  wilt 
have  quenched  the  fire,  thou  wilt  have  shamed 
the  devil,  thou  wilt  have  made  her  more  thy 
slave  than  one  bought  with  money,  with  this 
language  thou  wilt  have  bound  her  fast.  Thus 
then,  by  thine  own  language,  teach  her  never 
to  speak  of  "mine  and  thine."  And  again, 
never  call  her  simply  by  her  name,  but  with 
terms  of  endearment,  with  honor,  with  much 
love.  Honor  her,  and  she  will  not  need  honor 
from  others;  she  will  not  want  the  glory  that 
comes  from  others,  if  she  enjoys  that  which 
comes  from  thee.  Prefer  her  before  all,  on 
every  account,  both  for  her  beauty  and  her 
discernment,  and  praise  her.  Thou  wilt  thus 
persuade  her  to  give  heed  to  none  that  are 
without,  but  to  scorn  all  the  world  except  thy- 
self. Teach  her  the  fear  of  God,  and  all  good 
things  will '  flow  from  this  as  from  a  fountain, 
and  the  house  will  be  full  of  ten  thousand 
blessings.  If  we  seek  the  things  that  are  in- 
corruptible, these  corruptible  things  will  follow. 
"  For,"  saith  He,  "  seek  first  His  kingdom,  and 
all  these  things  shall  be  added  unto  you." 
(Matt.  vi.  33.)  What  sort  of  persons,  think 
you,  must  the  children  of  such  parents  be? 
What  the  servants  of  such  masters?  What  all 
others  who  come  near  them?  Will  not  they 
too  eventually  be  loaded  with  blessings  out  of 
number?  For  generally  the  servants  also  have 
their  characters  formed  after  their  master's,  and 
are  fashioned  after  their  humors,  love  the  same 
objects,  which  they  have  been  taught  to  love, 
speak  the  same  language,  and  engage  with  them 
in  the  same  pursuits.  If  thus  we  regulate  our- 
selves, and  attentively  study  the  Scriptures,  in 
most  things  we  shall  derive  instruction  from 
them.  And  thus  shall  be  able  to  please  God, 
and  to  pass  through  the  whole  of  the  present 
life  virtuously,  and  to  attain  those  blessings 
which  are  promised  to  those  that  love  Him,  of 
which  God  grant  that  we  may  all  be  counted 
worthy,  through  the  grace  and  lovingkindness 
of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  with  Whom,  together 
with  the  Holy  Ghost,  be  unto  the  Father,  glory, 
power,  and  honor,  now,  and  ever,  through  all 
ages.     Amen. 


Homily  XXI.] 


HOMILIES   ON   EPHESIANS. 


»53 


HOMILY    XXI. 

Ephesians  vi.  1-3. 


"Children,  obey  your  parents  in  the  Lord,  for  this  is 
right  Honor  thy  father  and  mother  (which  is  the 
first  commandment  with  promise),  that  it  may  be 
well  with  thee,  and  thou  mayest  live  long  on  the 
enth." 

As  a  man  in  forming  a  body,  places  the  head 
first,  after  that  the  neck,  then  the  feet,  so  does 
the  blessed  Paul  proceed  in  his  discourse.  He 
has  spoken  of  the  husband,  he  has  spoken  of 
the  wife,  who  is  second  in  authority,  he  now 
goes  on  by  gradual  advances  to  the  third  rank — 
which  is  that  of  children.  For  the  husband  has 
authority  over  the  wife,  and  the  husband  and 
the  wife  over  the  children.  Now  then  mark 
what  he  is  saying. 

"  Children,1  obey  your  parents  in  the  Lord ; 
for  this  is  the  first  commandment  with  promise." 

Here  he  has  not  a  word  of  discourse  concern- 
ing Christ,  not  a  word  on  high  subjects,  for  he 
is  as  yet  addressing  his  discourse  to  tender  un- 
derstandings. And  it  is  for  this  reason,  more- 
over, that  he  makes  his  exhortation  short, 
inasmuch  as  children  cannot  follow  up  a  long 
argument.  For  this  reason  also  he  does  not 
discourse  at  all  about  a  kingdom,  (because  it 
does  not  belong  to  the  tender  age  of  childhood 
to  understand  these  subjects,)  but  what  a  child's 
soul  most  especially  longs  to  hear,  that  he  says, 
namely,  that  it  shall  "  live  long."  For  if  any 
one  shall  enquire  why  it  is  that  he  omitted  to 
discourse  concerning  a  kingdom,  but  set  before 
them  the  commandment  laid  down  in  the  law, 
he  does  this  because  he  speaks  to  them  as  in- 
fantine, and  because  he  is  well  aware  that  if  the 
husband  and  the  wife  are  thus  disposed  accord- 
ing to  the  law  which  he  has  laid  down,  there 
will  be  but  little  trouble  in  securing  the  submis- 
sion of  the  children.  For  whenever  any  matter 
has  a  good  and  sound  and  orderly  principle  and 
foundation,  everything  will  thenceforward  go  on 
with  method  and  regularity,  with  much  facility : 
the  more  difficult  thing  is  to  settle  the  founda- 
tion, to  lay  down  a  firm  basis.  "  Children," 
saith  he,  "  obey  your  parents  in  the  Lord,"  that 
is,  according  to  the  Lord.  This,  he  means  to 
say,  is  what  God2  commands  you.  But  what 
then  if  they  shall  command  foolish  things? 
Generally  a  father,  however  foolish  he  may  be 

1  ["  The  address  to  children  in  a  letter  to  the  Church  presupposes 
tta  the  Apostle  regards  them  as  belonging  to  the  Church,  present  at 
public  worship,  understanding  the  word  read  to  and  applicable  to 
than."--Braune  ui  Lange.  —  G.  A.] 

'  [**i»  ttvpitf.  Not  God,  as  Chrysostom,  and  not  nark  tcvpiov,  as 
Cwyiostom,  but  denoting  the  sphere  to  which  the  action  is  to  be 
limited."  -  EUicott.  —  G.  A.] 


himself,  does  not  command  foolish  things.  How- 
ever, even  in  that  case,  the  Apostle  has  guarded 
the  matter,  by  saying,  "  in  the  Lord  "  ;  that  is, 
wherever  you  will  not  be  offending  against  God. 
So  that  if  the  father  be  a  gentile  or  a  heretic,  we 
ought  no  longer  to  obey,  because  the  command 
is  not  then,  "  in  the  Lord."  But  how  is  it  that 
he  says,  "Which  is  the  first  commandment"? 
For  the  first  is,  "  Thou  shalt  not  commit  adul- 
tery;—  Thou  shalt  not  kill."  He  does  not 
speak  of  it  then  as  first  in  rank,8  but  in  respect 
of  the  promise.  For  upon  those  others  there  is 
no  reward  annexed,  as  being  enacted  with  ref- 
erence to  evil  things,  and  to  departure  from  evil 
things.  Whereas  in  these  others,  where  there  is 
the  practice  of  good,  there  is  further  a  promise 
held  out.  And  observe  how  admirable  a  founda- 
tion he  has  laid  for  the  path  of  virtue,  that  is, 
honor  and  reverence  towards  parents.  When 
he  would  lead  us  away  from  wicked  practices, 
and  is  just  about  to  enter  upon  virtuous  ones, 
this  is  the  first  thing  he  enjoins,  honor  towards 
parents ;  inasmuch  as  they  before  all  others  are, 
after  God,  the  authors  of  our  being,  so  that  it  is 
reasonable  they  should  be  the  first  to  reap  the 
fruits  of  our  right  actions ;  and  then  all  the  rest 
of  mankind.  For  if  a  man  have  not  this  honor 
for  parents  he  will  never  be  gentle  toward  those 
unconnected  with  him. 

However,  having  given  the  necessary  injunc- 
tions to  children,  he  passes  to  the  fathers,  and 
says, 

Ver.  4.  "And  ye  fathers,  provoke  not  your 
children  to  wrath  ;  but  nurture  them  up  in  the 
chastening  and  admonition  of  the  Lord." 

He  does  not  say,  "  love  them,"  because  to 
this  nature  draws  them  even  against  their  own 
will,  and  it  were  superfluous  to  lay  down  a  law 
on  such  subjects.  But  what  does  he  say? 
"  Provoke  not  your  children  to  wrath,"  as  many 
do  by  disinheriting  them,  and  disowning  them, 
and  treating  them  overbearingly,  not  as  free, 
but  as  slaves.  This  is  why  he  says,  "  Provoke 
not  your  children  to  wrath."  Then,  which  is 
the  chief  thing  of  all,  he  shows  how  they  will  be 
led  to  obedience,  referring  the  whole  source  of 
it  to  the  head  and  chief  authority.  And  in  the 
same  way  as  he  has  shown  the  husband  to  be  the 
cause  of  the  wife's  obedience,  (which  is  the  rea- 
son also  why  he  addresses  the  greater  part  of 


*  Tofei.  ["  Paul  says  jrpurnj,  having  before  his  mind  not  only  the 
Decalogue,  but  also  '  the  entire  series  of  divine  precepts,'  which 
begins  with  the  Decalogue." —  Meyer. — G.  A.] 


154 


WORKS   OF   ST.   CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  XXI. 


his  arguments  to  him,  advising  him  to  attach  her 
to  himself  by  the  power  of  love,)  so,  I  say,  here 
also,  he  refers  the  efficiency  to  him,  by  saying, 
"  But  bring  them  up  in  the  chastening  and  ad- 
monition of  the  Lord."  Thou  seest  that  where 
there  are  spiritual  ties,  the  natural  ties  will  follow. 
Do  you  wish  your  son  to  be  obedient  ?  From 
the  very  first  "  Bring  him  up  in  the  chastening 
and  admonition  of  the  Lord."  Never  deem  it 
an  unnecessary  thing  that  he  should  be  a  diligent 
hearer  of  the  divine  Scriptures.  For  there  the 
first  thing  he  hears  will  be  this,  "Honor  thy 
father  and  thy  mother  "  ;  so  that  this  makes  for 
thee.  Never  say,  this  is  the  business  of  monks. 
Am  I  making  a  monk  of  him?  No.  There  is 
no  need  he  should  become  a  monk.1  Why  be  so 
afraid  of  a  thing  so  replete  with  so  much  advan- 
tage ?  Make  him  a  Christian.  For  it  is  of  all 
things  necessary  for  laymen*  to  be  acquainted 
with  the  lessons  derived  from  this  source ;  but 
especially  for  children.  For  theirs  is  an  age  full 
of  folly ;  and  to  this  folly  are  superadded  the  bad 
examples  derived  from  the  heathen  tales,  where 
they  are  made  acquainted  with  those  heroes  so 
admired  amongst  them,  slaves  of  their  passions, 
and  cowards  with  regard  to  death ;  as,  for  ex- 
ample, Achilles,  when  he  relents,  when  he  dies 
for  his  concubine,  when  another  gets  drunk,  and 
many  other  things  of  the  sort.  He  requires  there- 
fore the  remedies  against  these  things.  How  is 
it  not  absurd  to  send  children  out  to  trades,  and 
to  school,  and  to  do  all  you  can  for  these  ob- 
jects, and  yet,  not  to  "  bring  them  up  in  the 
chastening  and  admonition  of  the  Lord  "  ?  And 
for  this  reason  truly  we  are  the  first  to  reap  the 
fruits,  because  we  bring  up  our  children  to  be 
insolent  and  profligate,  disobedient,  and  mere 
vulgar  fellows.  Let  us  not  then  do  this ;  no, 
let  us  listen  to  this  blessed  Apostle's  admoni- 
tion. "  Let  us  bring  them  up  in  the  chasten- 
ing and  admonition  of  the  Lord."  Let  us  give 
them  a  pattern.  Let  us  make  them  from  the 
earliest  age  apply  themselves  to  the  reading 
of  the  Scriptures.  Alas,  that  so  constantly  as  I 
repeat  this,  I  am  looked  upon  as  trifling  !  Still,  I 
shall  not  cease  to  do  my  duty.  Why,  tell  me,  do 
ye  not  imitate  them  of  old  ?  Ye  women,  espe- 
cially, emulate  those  admirable  women.  Has  a 
child  been  born  to  any  one  ?  Imitate  Hannah's 
example  ( i  Sam.  i.  24)  ;  look  at  what  she  did. 
She  brought  him  up  at  once  to  the  temple. 
Who  amongst  you  would  not  rather  tha.t  his  son 
should  become  a  Samuel  than  that  he  should  be 
king  of  the  whole  world  ten  thousand  times 
over?  "And  how,"  you  will  say,  "  is  it  possible 
he  should   become   such   a   one?"    Why  is  it 

1  Fathers  were  very  suspicious  in  St.  Chrysostom's  day  of  the  in- 
fluence of  Christianity  tending  to  make  their  children  monks.  In 
consequence  of  this  prejudice  against  the  monastic  life,  he  wrote  his 
Adv.  OfpMgn.  Mon.  Vit. 

2  rots  <co0>ii«otf .  3  ayaAfio, 


not  possible  ?  It  is  because  thou  dost  not  choose 
it  thyself,  nor  committest  him  to  the  care  of  those 
who  are  able  to  make  him  such  a  one.  "  And 
who,"  it  will  be  said,  "  is  such  a  one  as  this  ?  " 
God.  Since  she  put  him  into  the  hands  of  God. 
For  not  even  Eli  himself  was  one  of  those  in 
any  great  degree  qualified  to  form  him ;  (how 
could  he  be,  he  who  was  not  able  to  form  even 
his  own  children?)  No,  it  was  the  faith  of  the 
mother  and  her  earnest  zeal  that  wrought  the 
whole.  He  was  her  first  child,  and  her  only 
one,  and  she  knew  not  whether  she  should  ever 
have  others  besides.  Yet  she  did  not  say,  "  I 
will  wait  till  the  child  is  grown  up,  that  he  may 
have  a  taste  of  the  things  of  this  life,  I  will 
allow  him  to  have  his  pastime  in  them  a  little  in 
his  childish  years."  No,  all  these  thoughts  the 
woman  repudiated,  she  was  absorbed  in  one 
object,  how  from  the  very  beginning  she  might 
dedicate  the  spiritual  image8  to  God.  Well  may 
we  men  be  put  to  the  blush  at  the  wisdom  of 
this  woman.  She  offered  him  up  to  God,  and 
there  she  left  him.  And  therefore  was  her  mar- 
ried state  more  glorious,  in  that  she  had  made 
spiritual  objects  her  first  care,  in  that  she  dedi- 
cated the  first-fruits  to  God.  Therefore  was  her 
womb  fruitful,  and  she  obtained  other  children 
besides.4  And  therefore  she  saw  him  honorable 
even  in  the  world.  For  if  men  when  they  are 
honored,  render  honor  in  return,  will  not  God 
much  more,  He  who  does  this,  even  without 
being  honored?  How  long  are  we  to  be  mere 
lumps  of  flesh  ?  How  long  are  we  to  be  stoop- 
ing to  the  earth?  Let  everything  be  secondary 
with  us  to  the  provident  care  we  should  take  of 
our  children,  and  to  our  "  bringing  them  up  in 
the  chastening  and  admonition  of  the  Lord." 
If  from  the  very  first  he  is  taught  to  be  a  lover 
of  true  wisdom,  then  wealth  greater  than  all 
wealth  has  he  acquired  and  a  more  imposing 
name.  You  will  effect  nothing  so  great  by 
teaching  him  an  art,  and  giving  him  that  out- 
ward learning  by  which  he  will  gain  riches,  as  if 
you  teach  him  the  art  of  despising  riches.  If 
you  desire  to  make  him  rich,  do  this.  For  the 
rich  man  is  not  he  who  desires  great  riches,  and 
is  encircled  with  great  riches  ;  but  the  man  who 
has  need  of  nothing.5  Discipline  your  son  in 
this,  teach  him  this.  This  is  the  greatest  riches. 
Seek  not  how  to  give  him  reputation  and  high 
character  in  outward  learning,  but  consider 
deeply  how  you  shall  teach  him  to  despise  the 
glory  that  belongs  to  this  present  life.  By  this 
means  would  he  become  more  distinguished  and 
more  truly  glorious.     This  it  is  possible  for  the 

4  [On  the  authority  of  three  MSS.,  Savile  and  other  editors  con- 
curring, we  have  departed  here  from  the  text  of  Field,  which  reverses 
the  order  of  this  and  the  following  sentence,  and  leaves  the  sense  less 
clear,     v.  i  Sam.  ii.  21.  —  G.  A.J 

6  [This  reminds  one  of  the  saying  of  Socrates:  To  want  nothing 
belongs  to  the  gods,  and  to  want  as  little  as  possible  is  to  make  the 
nearest  approach  to  them.  —  G.  A.] 


Homily  XXI.] 


HOMILIES   ON   EPHESIANS. 


155 


poor  man  and  the  rich  man  alike  to  accomplish. 
These  are  lessons  which  a  man  does  not  learn 
from  a  master,  nor  by  art,  but  by  means  of  the 
divine  oracles.     Seek  not  how  he  shall  enjoy  a 
long  life  here,  but  how  he  shall  enjoy  a  bound- 
less and  endless  life  hereafter.     Give  him  the 
great  things,  not  the  little  things.     Hear  what 
Paul  saith,  "  Bring  them  up  in  the  chastening 
and  admonition  of  the  Lord " ;  study  not  to 
make  him  an  orator,  but  train  him  up  to  be  a 
philosopher.    In  the  want  of  the  one  there  will  be 
no  harm  whatever ;  in  the  absence  of  the  other, 
all  the  rhetoric  in  the  world  will  be  of  no  advan- 
tage. Tempers  are  wanted,  not  talking ;  charac- 
ter, not  cleverness;  deeds,  not  words.     These 
gain  a  man  the  kingdom.     These  confer  what 
are  benefits  indeed.    Whet  not  his  tongue,  but 
cleanse  his  soul.     I  do  not  say  this  to  prevent 
your  teaching  him  these  things,  but  to  prevent 
your  attending  to  them   exclusively.     Do  not 
imagine  that  the  monk  alone  stands  in  need  of 
these  lessons  from  Scripture.     Of  all  others,  the 
children  just  about  to  enter  into  the  world  spe- 
cially need  them.  For  just  in  the  same  way  as  the 
man  who  is  always  at  anchor  in  harbor,  is  not 
the  man  who  requires  his  ship  to  be  fitted  out, 
and  who  needs  a  pilot  and  a  crew,  but  he  who  is 
always  out  at  sea ;  so  is  it  with  the  man  of  the 
world  and  the  monk.    The  one  is  entered  as  it 
were  into  a  waveless  harbor,  and  lives  an  un- 
troubled life,  and  far  removed  from  every  storm  ; 
whilst  the  other  is  ever  on  the  ocean,  and  lives 
out  at  sea  in  the  very  midst  of  the  ocean,  bat- 
tling with  billows  without  number. 

And  though  he  may  not  need  it  himself,  still  he 
ought  to  be  so  prepared  as  to  stop  the  mouths  of 
others.1  Thus  the  more  distinguished  he  is  in  the 
present  life,  so  much  the  more  he  stands  in  need 
of  this  education.    If  he  passes  his  life  in  courts, 
there  are  many  Heathens,  and  philosophers,  and 
persons  puffed  up  with  the  glory  of  this  life.     It 
is  like  a  place  full  of  dropsical  people.     Such  in 
some  sort  is  the  court.     All  are,  as  it  were, 
puffed  up,  and  in  a  state  of  inflammation.    And 
they  who  are  not  so  are  studying  to  become  so. 
Now  then  reflect  how  vast  a  benefit  it  is,  that 
your  son  on  entering  there,  should  enter  like  an 
excellent  physician,  furnished  with  instruments 
which  may  allay  every  one's  peculiar  inflamma- 
tion, and  should  go  up  to  every  one,  and  con- 
verse with  him,  and  restore  the  diseased  body  to 
health,  applying  the  remedies  derived  from  the 
Scriptures,  and  pouring  forth  discourses  of  the 
true  philosophy.     For  with  whom  is  the  recluse 
to  converse?  with  his  wall  and  his  ceiling?  yea, 
or  again  with  the  wilderness  and  the  woods  ?  or 
with  the  birds  and  the  trees  ?     He  therefore  has 
not  so  great   need  of  this  sort  of  discipline. 

1  [The  following  part  of  the  paragraph  explains  this  sentence.  — 
G.  A.] 


Still,  however,  he  makes  it  his  business  to  perfect 
this  work,  not  so  much  with  a  view  of  disciplin- 
ing others  as  himself.  There  is  then  every  need 
of  much  discipline  of  this  sort  to  those  that  are 
to  mix  in  the  present  world,  because  such  an 
one  has  a  stronger  temptation  to  sin  than  the 
other.  And  if  you  have  a  mind  to  understand  • 
it,  he  will  further  be  a  more  useful  person  even 
in  the  world  itself.  For  ail  will  have  a  rever- 
ence for  him  from  these  words,  when  they  see 
him  in  the  fire  without  being  burnt,  and  not 
desirous  of  power.  But  power  he  will  then  ob- 
tain, when  he  least  desires  it,  and  will  be  a  still 
higher  object  of  respect  to  the  king ;  for  it  is 
not  possible  that  such  a  character  should  be  hid. 
Amongst  a  number  of  healthy  persons,  indeed, 
a  healthy  man  will  not  be  noticed ;  but  when 
there  is  one  healthy  man  amongst  a  number  of 
sick,  the  report  will  quickly  spread  and  reach  the 
king's  ears,  and  he  will  make  him  ruler  over 
many  nations.  Knowing  then  these  things, 
"  bring  up  your  children  in  the  chastening  and 
admonition  of  the  Lord." 

"But  suppose  a  man  is  poor."  Still  he  will 
be  in  no  wise  more  insignificant  than  the  man 
who  lives  in  kings'  courts,  because  he  is  not  in 
kings'  courts ;  no,  he  will  be  held  in  admiration, 
and  will  soon  gain  that  authority  which  is  yielded 
voluntarily,  and  not  by  any  compulsion.  For  if  a 
set  of  Greeks,  men  worthless  as  they  are,  and 
dogs,*  by  taking  up  that  worthless  philosophy  of 
theirs,  (for  such  the  Grecian  philosophy  is,)  or 
rather  not  kself  but  only  its  mere  name,  and 
wearing  the  threadbare  cloak,  and  letting  their 
hair  grow,  impress  many ;  how  much  more  will 
he  who  is  a  true  philosopher?  If  a  false  ap- 
pearance, if  a  mere  shadow  of  philosophy  at 
first  sight  so  catches  us,  what  if  we  should  love 
the  true  and  pure  philosophy?  Will  not  all 
court  it,  and  entrust  both  houses,  and  wives,  and 
children,  with  full  confidence  to  such  men?  But 
there  is  not,  no,  there  is  not  such  a  philosopher 
existing  now.  And  therefore,  it  is  not  possible 
to  find  an  example  of  the  sort.  Amongst  re- 
cluses, indeed,  there  are  such,  but  amongst  peo- 
ple in  the  world  no  longer.  And  that  amongst 
recluses  there  are  such,  it  would  be  possible  to 
adduce  a  number  of  instances.  However,  I  will 
mention  one  out  of  many.  Ye  know,  doubt- 
less, and  have  heard  of,  and  some,  perhaps, 
have  also  seen,  the  man  whom  I  am  now 
about  to  mention.  I  mean,  the  admirable 
Julian.  This  man  was  a  rustic,  in  humble  life, 
and  of  humble  parentage,  and  totally  unin- 
structed  in  all  outward  accomplishments,  but 
full  of  unadorned  wisdom.3   When  he  came  into 


*  Tpita>0oAifiaioi  riper  ical  kvpcc  . 

8  St.  Julian  was  a  native  of  Cilicia,  perhaps  of  Tarsus,  and  was 
martyred  at  iEgae  in  the  Dioclesian  persecution.  One  of  St.  Chrysos- 
tom's  orations  is  in  his  praise.  • 


156 


WORKS   OF   ST.    CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  XXI. 


the  cities,  (and  this  was  but  rarely,)  never  did 
such  a  concourse  take  place,  not  when  orators, 
or  sophists,  or  any  one  else  rode  in.  But  what 
am  I  saying?  Is  not  his  very  name  more  glori- 
ous than  that  of  any  king's,  and  celebrated  even 
to  this  day  ?  And  if  these  things  were  in  this 
world,  in  the  world  in  which  the  Lord  promised 
us  no  one  good  thing,  in  which  He  hath  told  us 
we  are  strangers,  let  us  consider  how  great  will 
be  the  blessings  laid  up  for  us  in  the  heavens. 
If,  where  they  were  sojourners  they  enjoyed  so 
great  honor,  how  great  glory  shall  they  enjoy 
where  their  own  city  is  !  If,  where  He  promised 
tribulation,  they  meet  with  such  attentive  care, 
then  where  He  promises  true  honors,  how  great 
shall  be  their  rest ! 

And  now  would  ye  have  me  exhibit  examples 
of  secular  men?  At  present,  indeed,  we  have 
none ;  still  there  are  perhaps  even  secular  men 
who  are  excellent,  though  not  arrived  at  the 
highest  philosophy.  I  shall  therefore  quote  you 
examples  from  the  saints  of  the  ancient  times. 
How  many,  who  had  wives  to  keep  and  children 
to  bring  up,  were  inferior  in  no  respect,  no,  in 
no  respect  to  those  who  have  been  mentioned  ? 
Now,  however,  it  is  no  longer  so,  "  by  reason  of 
the  present  distress"  (i  Cor.  vii.  26),  as  this 
blessed  Apostle  saith.  Now  then  whom  would 
ye  have  me  mention?  Noah,  or  Abraham? 
The  son  of  the  one  or  of  the  other?  Or  again, 
Joseph?  Or  would  ye  have  me  go  to  the 
Prophets?  Moses  I  mean,  or  Isaiah?  How- 
ever, if  you  will,  let  us  carry  our  discourse  to 
Abraham,  whom  all  are  continually  bringing  for- 
ward to  us  above  all  others.  Had  he  not  a  wife  ? 
Had  he  not  children?  Yes,  for  I  too  use  the 
same  language  to  you,  as  you  do  to  me.  He 
had  a  wife,  but  it  was  not  because  he  had  a  wife 
that  he  was  so  remarkable.  He  had  riches,  but 
it  was  not  because  he  had  riches  that  he  pleased 
God.  He  begat  children,  but  it  was  not  be- 
cause he  begat  children  that  he  was  pronounced 
blessed.  He  had  three  hundred  and  eighteen 
servants  born  in  his  house,  but  it  was  not  on  this 
account  that  he  was  accounted  wonderful.  But 
would  you  know  why  it  was?  It  was  for  his 
hospitality,  for  his  contempt  of  riches,  for  his 
chastened  conduct.  For  what,  tell  me,  is  the 
duty  of  a  philosopher  ?  Is  it  not  to  despise  both 
riches  and  glory?  Is  it  not  to  be  above  both 
envy  and  every  other  passion  ?  Come  now  then, 
let  us  bring  him  forward  and  strip  him,  and  show 
you  what  a  philosopher  he  was.  First  of  all,  he 
esteemed  his  fatherland  as  nothing.  God  said, 
"Get  thee  out  of  thy  country,  and  from  thy 
kindred"  (Gen.  xii.  1),  and  immediately  he 
went  forth.  He  was  not  bound  to  his  house, 
(or  surely  he  would  never  have  gone  forth,)  nor 
to  his  love  of  familiar  friends,  nor  to  anything 
else  whatever.     But  what  ?  glory  and  money  he 


despised  above  all  others.  For  when  he  had 
put  an  end  to  war  by  turning  the  enemy  to 
flight,  and  was  requested  to  take  the  spoil,  he 
rejected  it.     (Gen.  xiv.  21-23.) 

Again,  the  son  of  this  great  man  was  rever- 
enced, not  because  of  his  riches,  but  for  his 
hospitality  :  not  because  of  his  children,  but  for 
his  obedience :  not  because  of  his  wife,  but  for 
the  barrenness  inflicted  on  his  wife.  (Gen. 
xxv.  21.) 

They  looked  upon  the  present  life  as  nothing, 
they  followed  not  after  gain,  they  despised  all 
things.  Tell  me,  which  sort  of  plants  are  the 
best  ?  Are  not  those  which  have  their  strength 
from  themselves  and  are  injured  neither  by  rains, 
nor  by  hailstorms,  nor  by  gusts  of  wind,  nor  by 
any  other  vicissitude  of  the  sort,  but  stand  naked 
in  defiance  of  them  all,  and  needing  neither  wall 
nor  fence  to  protect  them?  Such  is  the  true 
philosopher,  such  is  that  wealth  of  which  we 
spoke.  He  has  nothing,  and  has  all  things  :  he 
has  all  things,  and  has  nothing.  For  a  fence  is 
not  within,  but  only  without;  a  wall  is  not  a 
thing  of  nature,  but  only  built  round  from  with- 
out. And  what  again,  I  ask,  what  sort  of  body 
is  a  strong  one?  Is  it  not  that  which  is  in 
health,  and  which  is  overcome  neither  by  hunger 
nor  repletion,  nor  by  cold,  nor  by  heat ;  or  is  it 
that  which  in  view  of  all  these  things,  needs  both 
caterers,  and  weavers,  and  hunters,  and  physi- 
cians, to  give  it  health?  He  is  the  rich  man, 
the  true  philosopher,  who  needeth  none  of  these 
things.  For  this  cause  it  was  that  this  blessed 
Apostle  said,  "  Bring  them  up  in  the  chastening 
and  admonition  of  the  Lord."  Surround  them 
not  with  outward  defenses.  For  such  is  wealth, 
such  is  glory ;  for  when  these  fall,  and  they  do 
fall,  the  plant  stands  naked  and  defenseless,  not 
only  having  derived  no  profit  from  them  during 
the  time  past,  but  even  injury.  For  those  very 
shelters  that  prevented  its  being  inured  to  the 
attacks  of  the  winds,  will  now  have  prepared  it 
for  perishing  all  at  once.  And  so  wealth  is  in- 
jurious rather,  because  it  renders  us  undisciplined 
for  the  vicissitudes  of  life.  Let  us  therefore 
train  up  our  children  to  be  such,  that  they  shall 
be  able  to  bear  up  against  every  trial,  and  not  be 
surprised  at  what  may  come  upon  them ;  "  let 
us  bring  them  up  in  the  chastening  and  admoni- 
tion of  the  Lord."  And  great  will  be  the  reward 
which  will  be  thus  laid  up  in  store  for  us.  For  if 
men  for  making  statues  and  painting  portraits  of 
kings  enjoy  so  great  honor,  shall  not  we  who 
adorn  the  image  of  the  King  of  kings,  (for  man 
is  the  image  of  God,)  receive  ten  thousand  bless- 
ings, if  we  effect  a  true  likeness?  For  the  like- 
ness is  in  this,  in  the  virtue  of  the  soul,  when  we 
train  our  children  to  be  good,  to  be  meek,  to  be 
forgiving,  (because  all  these  are  attributes  of 
God,)  to  be  beneficent,  to  be  humane ;  when 


Homily  XXII.] 


HOMILIES   ON    EPHESIANS. 


157 


we  train  them  to  regard  the  present  world  as 
nothing.     Let  this  then  be  our   task,  to  mold 
and  to  direct  both  ourselves  and  them  according 
to  what  is  right.    Otherwise  with  what  sort  of 
boldness  shall  we  stand   before  the  judgment- 
seat  of  Christ?     If  a  man  who  has  unruly  chil- 
dren is  unworthy  to  be  a  Bishop  (Tit.  i.  6),  much 
more  is  he  unworthy  of  the  kingdom  of  Heaven. 
What  sayest  thou?    If  we  have  an  unruly  wife, 
or  unruly  children,  shall  we  have  to  render  ac- 
count?  Yes,  we  shall,  if  we  do  not  with  exact- 
ness bring  in  that  which  is  due  from  ourselves ; 
for  our  own  individual  virtue  is  not  enough  in 
order  to  salvation.     If  the  man  who  laid  aside 
the  one  talent  gained  nothing,  but  was  punished 
even  in  such  a  manner,  it  is  plain  that  one's  own 
individual  virtue  is  not  enough  in  order  to  salva- 
tion, but  there  is  need  of  that  of  another  also. 
Let  us  therefore  entertain  great  solicitude  for 


our  wives,  and  take  great  care  of  our  children, 
and  of  our  servants,  and  of  ourselves.  And  in 
our  government  both  of  ourselves  and  of  them, 
let  us  beseech  God  that  He  aid  us  in  the  work. 
If  He  shall  see  us  interested  in  this  work,  and 
solicitous  about  it,  He  will  aid  us ;  but  if  He 
shall  see  us  paying  no  regard  to  it,  He  will  not 
give  us  His  hand.  For  He  does  not  vouchsafe 
us  His  assistance  when  we  sleep,  but  when  we 
labor  also  ourselves.  For  a  helper,  (as  the  name 
implies,)  is  not  a  helper  of  one  that  is  inactive, 
but  of  one  who  works  also  himself.  But  the 
good  God  is  able  of  Himself  to  bring  the  work 
to  perfection,  that  we  may  be  all  counted  worthy 
to  attain  to  the  blessings  promised  us,  through 
the  grace  and  compassions  of  His  only  begotten 
Son,  with  Whom  together  with  the  Holy  Ghost 
be  unto  the  Father,  glory,  might,  and  honor, 
now  and  ever,  and  throughout  all  ages.    Amen. 


HOMILY    XXII. 

Ephesians  vi.  5-8. 


"Servants,  be  obedient  unto  them, that,  according  to  the 
flesh,  are  your  masters,  with  fear  and  trembling,  in 
singleness  of  your  heart,  as  unto  Christ;  not  in  the 
wiy  of  eye-service,  as  men-pleasers :  but  as  servants 
of  Christ,  doing  the  will  of  God  from  the  heart;  with 
good-will  doing  service,  as  unto  the  Lord,  and  not 
unto  men:  knowing  that  whatsoever  good  thing 
each  one  doeth,  the  same  shall  he  receive  again 
from  the  Lord,  whether  he  be  bond  or  free." 

Thus  then  it  is  not  husband  only,  nor  wife,  nor 
children,  but  virtuous  servants  also  that  contrib- 
ute to  the  organization  and  protection  of  a 
house.  Therefore  the  blessed  Paul  has  not  over- 
looked this  department  even.  He  comes  to  it, 
however,  in  the  last  place,  because  it  is  last  in 
dignity  and  rank.  Still  he  addresses  much  dis- 
course also  to  them,  no  longer  in  the  same  tone 
as  to  children,  but  in  a  far  more  advanced  way, 
inasmuch  as  he  does  not  hold  out  to  these  the 
promise  in  this  world,  but  in  that  which  is  to 
come.  "  Knowing,"  saith  he,  "  that  whatsoever 
good  or  evil1  thing  each  one  doeth,  the  same 
shall  he  receive  of  the  Ix>rd,"  and  thus  at  once 
instructs  them  to  love  wisdom.  For  though 
they  be  inferior  to  the  children  in  dignity,  still 
in  mind  they  are  superior  to  them. 

"Servants,"  saith  he,  "be  obedient  to  them 
that,  according  to  the  flesh,  are  your  masters." 


[The  words,  "  or  eril,"  ij  «a«eV,  are  not  in  the  text  of  this  pas- 
je  at  all,  though  Chrysostom  has  them.  Chrysostom  and  the 
Patristic  writers  in  general  often  quote  the  New  Testament  without 
exactness.  They  quote  often  from  memory,  and  are  seldom  critical. 
O-  Schsff,  Cnmfamum  U  Greek  Testament,  p.  164.— G.  A.J 


Thus  at  once  he  raises  up,  at  once  soothes  the 
wounded  soul.  Be  not  grieved,  he  seems  to  say, 
that  you  are  inferior  to  the  wife  and  the  children. 
Slavery  is  nothing  but  a  name.  The  mastership 
is  "  according  to  the  flesh,"  brief  and  temporary  ;* 
for  whatever  is  of  the  flesh,  is  transitory. 
"With  fear,"  he  adds,  "and  trembling."3 
Thou  seest  that  he  does  not  require  the  same 
fear  from  slaves  as  from  wives :  for  in  that  case 
he  simply  said,  "  and  let  the  wife  see  that  she 
fear  her  husband " ;  whereas  in  this  case  he 
heightens  the  expression,  "  with  fear,"  he  saith, 
"  and  trembling,  in  singleness  of  your  heart,  as 
unto  Christ."  This  is  what  he  constantly  says. 
What  meanest  thou,  blessed  Paul?  He  is  a 
brother,  or  rather  he  has  become  a  brother,  he 
enjoys  the  same  privileges,  he  belongs  to  the 
same  body.  Yea,  more,  he  is  the  brother,  not 
of  his  own  master  only,  but  also  of  the  Son  of 
God,  he  is  partaker  of  all  the  same  privileges ; 
yet  sayest  thou,  "  obey  your  masters  according 
to  the  flesh,  with  fear  and  trembling  "  ?  Yes,  for 
this  very  reason,  he  would  say,  I  say  it.  For  if 
I  charge  free  men  to  submit  themselves  one  to 
another  in  the  fear  of  God,  —  as  he  said  above, 
"  submitting  yourselves  one  to  another  in  the  fear 
of  Christ "  ;  —  if  I  charge  moreover  the  wife  to 
fear  and  reverence  her  husband,  although  she  is 
his  equal ;  much  more  must  I  so  speak  to  the 

*  ["  Wrong.  It  means  those  who  are  '  your  human  masters/  in 
distinction  from  Christ,  the  '  divine'  master."  —  Meyer. —  G.  A.] 

3  ["  With  fear  and  trembling,  i.e.  with  that  zeal  which  is  ever 
keenly  apprehensive  of  not  doing  enough."  —  Meyer.  —  G.  A.] 


158 


WORKS   OF   ST.   CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  XXII. 


servant.  It  is  no  sign  of  low  birth,  rather  it  is 
the  truest  nobility,  to  understand  how  to  lower 
ourselves,  to  be  modest  and  unassuming,  and  to 
give  way  to  our 'neighbor.  And  the  free  have 
served  the  free  with  much  fear  and  trembling. 

"  In  singleness  of  heart,"  he  says. 

And  it  is  well  said,  since  it  is  possible  to  serve 
with  fear  and  trembling,  and  yet  not  of  good 
will,  but  in  just  any  way  that  may  be  possible. 
Many  servants  in  many  instances  secretly  cheat 
their  masters.  And  this  cheating  accordingly 
he  does  away,  by  saying,  "  in  singleness  of  your 
heart  as  unto  Christ,  not  in  the  way  of  eye-ser- 
vice as  men-pleasers,  but  as  servants  of  Christ, 
doing  the  will  of  God  from  the  heart;  with 
good-will  doing  service,  as  unto  the  Lord,  and 
not  unto  men."  Seest  thou  how  many  words  he 
requires,  in  order  to  implant  this  good  principle, 
"  with  good-will,"  I  mean,  and  "  from  the  heart "  ? 
That  other  service,  "  with  fear  and  trembling  " 
I  mean,  we  see  many  rendering  to  their  mas- 
ters, and  the  master's  threat  goes  far  to  secure 
that.  But  show,  saith  he,  that  thou  servest  as 
"  the  servant  of  Christ,"  not  of  man.  Make 
the  right  action  your  own,  not  one  of  compulsion. 
Just  as  in  the  words  which  follow,  he  persuades 
and  instructs  the  man  who  is  ill-treated  by 
another  to  make  the  right  action  his  own,  and 
the  work  of  his  own  free  choice.  Because  inas- 
much as  the  man  that  smites  the  cheek,  is  not 
supposed  to  come  to  that  act  in  consequence  of 
any  intention  in  the  person  struck,  but  only  of 
his  own  individual  malice,  what  saith  He?  "Turn 
to  him  the  other  also  "  (Matt.  v.  39)  ;  to  show 
him  that  in  submitting  to  the  first  thou  wert  not 
unwilling.  For  he  that  is  lavish  in  suffering 
wrong,  makes  that  his  own  which  is  not  his  own 
act,  by  suffering  himself  to  be  smitten  on  the 
other  cheek  also,  and  not  merely  by  enduring 
the  first  blow.  For  this  latter  will  have  perhaps 
the  appearance  even  of  cowardice ;  but  that  of 
a  high  philosophy.  —  Thus  thou  wilt  show  that 
it  was  for  the  sake  of  wisdom  that  thou  didst 
bear  the  first  blow  also.  And  so  in  the  present 
case,  show  here  too,  that  thou  bearest  this 
slavery  also  willingly.  The  man-pleaser  then  is 
no  servant  of  Christ.  The  servant  of  Christ  is 
not  a  man-pleaser.  (Gal.  i.  10.)  For  who 
that  is  the  servant  of  God,  makes  it  his  object 
to  please  men  ?  And  who  that  pleases  men,  can 
be  a  servant  of  God  ? 

"  From  the  heart,"  l  saith  he,  "  with  good-will 
doing  service."  For  since  it  is  possible  to  do 
service  even  with  singleness  of  heart  and  not 
wrongfully,  and  yet  not  with  all  one's  might,  but 
only  so  far  as  fulfilling  one's  bounden  duty,  there- 

1  ["  From  the  heart"  («*e  t^v\n«)  i*  joined  by  Chrysostom  with 
what  follows.  (So  Westcott  and  Hort.)t  But  as  ^ct'  evvotat 
expresses  the  well-meaning  disposition,  it  already  includes  the 
sense  of  i*  *vx*F-  So  that  <«  tj^xji*  belongs  to  what  precedes.  So 
Meyer,  Ellicott,  and  Rev.  Ver.  —  G.  A.] 


fore  he  says,  do  it  with  alacrity,  not  of  necessity, 
upon  principle,  not  upon  constraint.  If  thus 
thou  do  service,  thou  art  no  slave ;  if  thou  do  it 
upon  principle,  if  with  good-will,  if  from  the 
heart,  and  if  for  Christ's  sake.  For  this  is  the 
servitude  that  even  Paul,  the  free  man,  serves, 
and  exclaims, "  For  we  preach  not  ourselves,  but 
Christ  Jesus,  as  Lord,  and  ourselves  as  your  ser- 
vants for  Jesus'  sake."  (2  Cor.  iv.  5.)  Look 
how  he  divests  thy  slavery  of  its  meanness.  For 
just  in  the  same  way  as  the  man  who  has  been 
robbed,  if  he  gives  still  more  to  him  who  has 
taken,  is  not  ranked  among  those  robbed,  but 
rather  amongst  liberal  givers ;  not  amongst  those 
who  suffer  evil,  but  amongst  those  who  do  good ; 
and  rather  clothes  the  other  with  disgrace  by  his 
liberality,  than  is  clothed  with  disgrace  by  being 
robbed,  —  so,  I  say,  in  this  case,  by  his  gener- 
osity he  will  appear  at  once  more  high-minded, 
and  by  showing  that  he  does  not  feel  the  wrong,' 
will  put  the  other  to  shame. 

Let  us  then  do  service  to  our  masters  for 
Christ's  sake,  "  knowing,"  he  continues,  "  that 
whatsoever  good  thing  each  one  doeth,  the  same 
shall  he  receive  of  the  Lord,  whether  he  be 
bond  or  free."  For  inasmuch  as  it  was  probable 
that  many  masters,  as  being  unbelievers,  would 
have  no  sense  of  shame,  and  would  make  no  re- 
turn to  their  slaves  for  their  obedience,  observe 
how  he  has  given  them  encouragement,  so  that 
they  may  have  no  misgiving  about  the  remunera- 
tion, but  may  have  full  confidence  respecting 
the  recompense.  For  as  they  who  receive  a 
benefit,  when  they  make  no  return,  make  God  a 
debtor  to  their  benefactors ;  so,  I  say,  do  masters 
also,  if,  when  well-treated  by  thee,  they  fail  to 
requite  thee,  requite  thee  the  more,  by  render- 
ing God  thy  debtor. 

Ver.  9.  "  And  ye  masters,"  he  continues,  "  do 
the  same  things  unto  them." 

The  same  things.  What  are  these  ?  "  With 
good-will  do  service."  However  he  does  not 
actually  say,  "do  service,"  though  by  saying, 
"  the  same  things,"  he  plainly  shows  this  to  be 
his  meaning.  For  the  master  himself  is  a  ser- 
vant. "  Not  as  men-pleasers,"  he  means,  "and 
with  fear  and  trembling  "  :  that  is,  toward  God, 
fearing  lest  He  one  day  accuse  you  for  your 
negligence  toward  your  slaves. 

"  And  forbear  threatening ;  "  be  not  irritating, 
he  means,  nor  oppressive. 

"  Knowing  that  both  their  Master  and  8  yours 
is  in  Heaven." 4 

Ah  !     How  mighty  a  Master  does  he  hint  at 

*  apirayiff. 

8  [The  second  #c«u  («ai  airritv  cat  vixitv)  is  omitted  in  Chrysos- 
tom's  text  of  this  passage,  and  in  the  textus  recrft*s,  so  that  it 
does  not  appear  in  the  Authorized  English  Version.     The  Revised 
Version  has  it,  however,  and  correctly  so.  —  G.  A.] 
4  [Meyer  quotes  Seneca,  Thyest.  607 :  — 

Quicquid  a  vobis  minor  exrimescit 
Major  hoc  vobis  dominus  minatur. 
Omne  sub  regno  graviore  regnum  est. —  G.  A.] 


Homily  XXII.] 


HOMILIES  ON   EPHESIANS. 


159 


here !  How  startling  the  suggestion  !  It  is  this. 
44  With  what  measure  thou  raetest,  it  shall  be 
measured  unto  thee  again1'  (Matt.  vii.  2)  ;  lest 
thou  hear  the  sentence,  "  Thou  wicked  servant. 
I  forgave  thee  all  that  debt."      (Matt  xviii. 

"And  there  is  no  respect  of  persons,"  he 
saith, "  with  Him." 

Think  not,  he  would  say,  that  what  is  done 
towards  a  servant,  He  will  therefore  forgive,  be- 
cause done  to  a  servant.  Heathen  laws  indeed, 
as  being  the  laws  of  men,  recognize  a  difference 
between  these  kinds  of  offenses.  But  the  law  of 
the  common  Lord  and  Master  of  all,  as  doing 
good  to  all  alike,  and  dispensing  the  same  rights 
to  all,  knows  no  such  difference. 

But  should  any  one  ask,  whence  is  slavery, 
and  why  it  has  found  entrance  into  human  life, 
(and  many  I  know  are  both  glad  to  ask  such 
questions,  and  desirous  to  be  informed  of  them,) 
I  will  tell  you.  Slavery  is  the  fruit  of  covetous- 
ness,  of  degradation,  of  savagery ;  since  Noah, 
we  know,  had  no  servant,  nor  had  Abel,  nor 
Seth,  no,  nor  they  who  came  after  them.  The 
thing  was  the  fruit  of  sin,  of  rebellion  against 
parents.  Let  children  hearken  to  this,  that 
whenever  they  are  undutifui  to  their  parents, 
they  deserve  to  be  servants.  Such  a  child  strips 
himself  of  his  nobility  of  birth ;  for  he  who  re- 
bels against  his  father  is  no  longer  a  son ;  and  if 
he 'who  rebels  against  his  father  is  not  a  son, 
how  shall  he  be  a  son  who  rebels  against  our 
true  Father?  He  has  departed  from  his  nobility 
of  birth,  he  has  done  outrage  to  nature.  Then 
come  also  wars,  and  battles,  and  take  their  pris- 
oners.1 Well,  but  Abraham,  you  will  say,  had 
servants.    Yes.  but  he  used  them  not  as  servants. 

Observe  how  everything  depends  upon  the 
head ;  the  wife,  by  telling  him  "  to  love  her  " ; 
the  children,  by  telling  him  "  to  bring  them  up 
in  the  chastening  and  admonition  of  the  Lord  "  ; 
the  servants,  by  the  words,  "  knowing  that  both 
their  Master  and  yours  is  in  Heaven."  So,  saith 
he,  ye  also  in  like  manner,  as  being  yourselves 
servants,  shall  be  kind  and  indulgent.  "  Finally, 
be  strong  in  the  Lord  and  in  the  strength  of 
His  might" 

But  if,  before  considering  this  next,  ye  have  a 
mind  to  hearken,  I  shall  make  the  same  remarks 
concerning  servants,  as  I  have  also  made  before 
concerning  children.  Teach  them  to  be  relig- 
ious, and  everything  else  will  follow  of  necessity. 
But  now,  when  any  one  is  going  to  the  theater, 
or  going  off  to  the  bath,  he  drags  all  his  servants 
after  him ;  but  when  he  goes  to  church,  not  for 
a  moment ;  nor  does  he  compel  them  to  attend 
and  hear.     Now  how  shall  thy  servant  listen, 

1  [He  seems  to  refer  slavery  to  three  causes:  i.  covetousnets : 
*•  rebellion  against  parents;  3.  war,  where  prisoners  are  taken  and 
■ade  slaves.—  G.  A.] 


when  thou  his  master  art  attending  to  other 
things  ?  Hast  thou  purchased,  hast  thou  bought 
thy  slave?  Before  all  things  enjoin  him  what 
God  would  have  him  do,  to  be  gentle  towards 
his  fellow-servants,  and  to  make  much  account 
of  virtue. 

Every  one's  house  is  a  city ;  and  every  man  is 
a  prince  in  his  own  house.  That  the  house  of 
the  rich  is  of  this  character,  is  plain  enough, 
where  there  are  both  lands,  and  stewards,  and 
rulers  over  rulers.  But  I  say  that  the  house  of 
the  poor  also  is  a  city.  Because  here  too  there 
are  offices  of  authority ;  for  instance,  the  hus- 
band has  authority  over  the  wife,  the  wife  over 
the  servants,  the  servants  again  over  their  own 
wives;  again  the  wives  and  the  husbands  over 
the  children.  Does  he  not  seem  to  you  to  be, 
as  it  were,  a  sort  of  king,  having  so  many  author- 
ities under  his  own  authority  ?  and  that  it  were 
meet  that  he  should  be  more  skilled  both  in  do- 
mestic and  general  government  than  all  the  rest  ? 
For  he  who  knows  how  to  manage  these  in  their 
several  relations,  will  know  how  to  select  the 
fittest  men  for  offices,  yes,  and  will  choose  ex- 
cellent ones.  And  thus  the  wife  will  be  a  second 
king  in  the  house,  lacking  only  the  diadem  ;  and 
he  who  knows  how  to  choose  this  king,  will  ex- 
cellently regulate  all  the  rest. 

Ver.  10.  "Finally,"  saith  he,  "be  strong  in 
the  Lord." 

Whenever  the  discourse  is  about  to  conclude, 
he  always  employs  this  turn.  Said  I  not  well 
from  the  first,  that  every  man's  house  is  a  camp 
in  itself?  For  look,  having  disposed  of  the  sev- 
eral offices,  he  proceeds  to  arm  them,  and  to  lead 
them  out  to  war.2  If  no  one  usurps  the  other's 
office,  but  every  one  remains  at  his  post,  all  will 
be  well  ordered. 

"  Be  strong,"  saith  he,  "  in  the  Lord,  and  in 
the  strength  of  His  might." 

That  is,  in  the  hope  which  we  have  in  Him, 
by  means  of  His  aid.  For  as  he  had  enjoined 
many  duties,  which  were  necessary  to  be  done, 
fear  not,  he  seems  to  say,  cast  your  hope  upon 
the  Lord,  and  He  will  make  all  easy. 

Ver.  n.  "Put  on  the  whole  armor  of  God, 
that  ye  may  be  able  to  stand  against  the  wiles  of 
the  devil." 

He  saith  not,  against  the  fightings,  nor  against 
the  hostilities,  but  against  the  "  wiles."  For  this 
enemy  is  at  war  with  us,  not  simply,  nor  openly, 
but  by  "  wiles."  What  is  meant  by  wiles  ?  To  use 
"  wiles,"  is  to  deceive  and  to  take  by  artifice  or 
contrivance  ;  a  thing  which  takes  place  both  in  the 
case  of  the  arts,  and  by  words,  and  actions,  and 
stratagems,  in  the  case  of  those  who  seduce  us. 


a  [This  is  very  beautiful,  but  hardly  correct  exegesis.  "  The 
word  'finally'  introduces  a  general,  final  exhortation,  winding 
up  the  whole  parenetic  portion  of  the  epistle  (iv.  i-vi.  9)."  — 
Meyer.  —  G.  A.J 


i6o 


WORKS   OF   ST.    CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  XXII. 


I  mean  something  like  this.  The  Devil  never 
proposes  to  us  sins  in  their  proper  colors;  he 
does  not  speak  of  idolatry,  but  he  sets  it  off  in 
another  dress,  using  "  wiles,' ' 1  that  is,  making  his 
discourse  plausible,  employing  disguises.  Now 
therefore  the  Apostle  is  by  this  means  both  rous- 
ing the  soldiers,  and  making  them  vigilant,  by  per- 
suading and  instructing  them,  that  our  conflict 
is  with  one  skilled  in  the  arts  of  war,  and  with 
one  who  wars  not  simply,  nor  directly,  but  with 
much  wiliness.  And  first  then  he  arouses  the  dis- 
ciples from  the  consideration  of  the  Devil's  skill ; 
but  in  the  second  place,  from  his  nature,  and  the 
number  of  his  forces.  It  is  not  from  any  desire 
to  dispirit  the  soldiers  that  stand  under  him,  but 
to  arouse,  and  to  awaken  them,  that  he  mentions 
these  stratagems,  and  prepares  them  to  be  vigi- 
lant; for  had  he  merely  detailed  their  power, 
and  there  stopped  his  discourse,  he  must  have 
dispirited  them.  But  now,  whereas  both  before 
and  after  this,  he  shows  that  it  is  possible  to 
overcome  such  an  enemy,  he  rather  raises  their 
courage ;  for  the  more  clearly  the  strength  of 
our  adversaries  is  stated  on  our  part  to  our  own 
people,  so  much  the  more  earnest  will  it  render 
our  soldiers. 

Ver.  12.  "  For  our  wrestling  is  not,"  saith  he, 
"  against  flesh  and  blood,2  but  against  the  prin- 
cipalities, against  the  powers,  against  the  world- 
rulers  of  this  darkness,  against  the  spiritual 
hosts  of  wickedness,  in  the  heavenly  places." 

Having  stimulated  them  by  the  character  of 
the  conflict,  he  next  goes  on  to  arouse  them  also 
by  the  prizes  set  before  them.  For  what  is  his 
argument?  Having  said  that  the  enemies  are 
fierce,  he  adds  further,  that  they  despoil  us  .of 
vast  blessings.  What  are  these?  The  conflict 
lies  "  in  the  heavenlies  "  ; 3  the  struggle  is  not 
about  riches,  not  about  glory,  but  about  our 
being  enslaved.  And  thus  is  the  enmity  irrecon- 
cilable. The  strife  and  the  conflict  are  fiercer 
when  for  vast  interests  at  stake ;  for  the  expres- 
sion "  in  the  heavenlies  " 8  is  equivalent  to,  "  for 
the  heavenly  things."  It  is  not  that  they  may 
gain  anything  by  the  conquest,  but  that  they  may 
despoil  us.  As  if  one  were  to  say,  "  In  what 
does  the  contract  lie?"  In  gold.  The  word 
"in,"  means,  "in  behalf  of";  the  word  "in," 
also  means,  "on  account4  of."5  Observe  how 
the  power  of  the  enemy  startles  us ;  how  it 
makes  us  all  circumspection,  to  know  that  the 
hazard   is  on  behalf  of  vast  interests,  and  the 

1  (*c9o6cv*>v. 

*  ["  Flesh  and  blood,  i.e.  '  feeble  men,'  just  as  in  Gal.  i.  16,  and 
Matt.  xvi.  17.  The  word  11-aAn,  which  means  nothing  else  than  a 
'  wrestling/  is  specially  chosen  by  the  Apostle  (who  elsewhere  uses 
ayutv  or  pay^),  in  order  to  bring  out  the  more  strongly  in  connec- 
tion with  irpb«  cupa  max  capita  the  contrast  between  this  less  perilous 
form  of  contest  and  that  which  follows." — Meyer.  —  G.  A.] 

*  iv  rot?  firovpaviotf . 

4  ["  The  word  iv  does  not  mean  '  for '  or  *  on  account  of,'  and  the 
phrase  is  here  local  (i.  3)."  —  Meyer.  —  G.  A.] 

5  to  iv  vrrtp  iari,  k<u  to  iv,  61a  iariv. 


victory  for  the  sake  of  great  rewards.     For  he 
is  doing  his  best  to  cast  us  out  of  Heaven. 

He  speaks  of  certain  "principalities,  and 
powers,  and  world-rulers  of  this  darkness." 
What  darkness  ?  Is  it  that  of  night  ?  No,  but 
of  wickedness.  "  For  ye  were,"  saith  he,  "  once 
darkness  "  (Eph.  v.  8)  ;  so  naming  that  wicked- 
ness which  is  in  this  present  life ;  for  beyond  it, 
it  will  have  no  place,  not  in  Heaven,  nor  in  the 
world  to  come. 

"  Wo  rid -rulers  "  6  he  calls  them,  not  as  having 
the  mastery  over  the  world,  but  the  Scripture  is 
wont  to  call  wicked  practices  "  the  world,"  as, 
for  example,  where  Christ  saith,  "  They  are  not 
of  this  world,  even  as  I  am  hot  of  the  world." 
(John  xvii.  16.)  What  then,  were  they  not  of 
the  world  ?  Were  they  not  clothed  with  flesh  ? 
Were  they  not  of  those  who  are  in  the  world? 
And  again ;  "  The  world  hateth  Me,  but  you  it 
cannot  hate."  (John  vii.  7.)  Where  again  He 
calls  wicked  practices  by  this  name.  Thus  the 
Apostle  here  by  the  world  means  wicked  men, 
and  the  evil  spirits  have  more  especial  power 
over  them.  "Against  the  spiritual  hosts  of 
wickedness,"  saith  he,  "  in  the  heavenly  places." 
"Principalities,  and  powers,"  he  speaks  of;  just 
as  in  the  heavenly  places  there  are  "  thrones  and 
dominions,  principalities  and  powers."  (Col. 
i.  16.) 

Ver.  13.  "Wherefore,"  saith  he,  "take  up  the 
whole  armor  of  God,  that  ye  may  be  able  to 
withstand  in  the  evil  day,  and,  having  done  all, 
to  stand." 

By  "  evil  day  "  he  means  the  present  life,7  and 
calls  it  too  "  this  present  evil  world  "  (Gal.  i.  4), 
from  the  evils  which  are  done  in  it.  It  is  as 
much  as  to  say,  Always  be  armed.  And  again, 
"  having  done  all,"  saith  he ;  that  is,  both  pas- 
sions, and  vile  lusts,  and  all  things  else  that 
trouble  us.  He  speaks  not  merely  of  doing  the 
deed,  but  of  completing  it,8  so  as  not  only  to 
slay,  but  to  stand  also  after  we  have  slain.  For 
many  who  have  gained  this  victory,  have  fallen 
again.  "  Having  done,"  saith  he,  "  all "  ;  not 
having  done  one,  but  not  the  other.  For  even 
after  the  victory,  we  must  stand.  An  enemy 
may  be  struck,  but  things  that  are  struck  revive 
again  if  we  do  not  stand.  But  if  after  having 
fallen  they  rise  up  again,  so  long  as  we  stand, 
they  are  fallen.  So  long  as  we  waver  not,  the 
adversary  rises  not  again. 

"  Let  us  put  on  the  whole  armor  of  God." 
Seest  thou  how  he  banishes  all  fear?     For  if  it 
be  possible  "  to  do  all,  and  to  stand,"  his  de- 
ft «o<ruo«paTopac. 

7  ["  The  use  o(fin.ipat  rather  than  aiitvi  (Gal.  i.  4)  is  opposed  to 
the  interpretation  of  Chrysostom.  Still  more  untenable  is  the  view 
of  Meyer,  that  Paul  is  here  specifying  the  day  when  the  last  great 
Satanic  outbreak  was  to  take  place.  Paul  has  at  heart  what  he  knew 
was  much  more  present  and  more  constantly  impending,  namely,  the 
day  of  violent  temptation." —  Ellicott.  —  G.  A.J 

■  Not  ipyaaa.fA.tvoi.,  but  KarepyaaafAtvoi. 


Homily  XXII.] 


HOMILIES   ON    EPHESIANS. 


161 


scribing  in  detail  the  power  of  the  enemy  does 
not  create  cowardice  and  fear,  but  it  shakes  off 
indolence.  "That  ye  may  be  able,"  he  saith, 
"to  withstand  in  the  evil  day."  And  he  further 
gives  them  encouragement  too  from  the  time; 
the  time,  he  seems  to  say,  is  short ;  *  so  that  ye 
must  needs  stand ;  faint  not  when  the  slaughter 
is  achieved. 

Moral.   If  then  it  is  a  warfare,  if  such  are 
the  forces  arrayed  against  us,  if  "  the  principali- 
ties "  are  incorporeal,  if  they  are  "  rulers  of  the 
world,"  if  they  are  "  the  spiritual  hosts  of  wicked- 
ness," how,  tell  me,  canst  thou  live  in  self-indul- 
gence ?    How  canst  thou  be  dissolute  ?     How  if 
we  are  unarmed,  shall  we  be  able  to  overcome  ? 
These  words  let  every  one  repeat  to  himself  every 
day,  whenever  he  is  under  the  influence  of  anger, 
or  of  lust,  whenever  he  is  aiming,  and  all  to  no 
profit,  after  this  languid  life.     Let  him  hearken 
to  the  blessed  Paul,  saying  to  him,  "  Our  wres- 
tling is  not  against  flesh  and  blood,  but  against 
the   principalities,    against    the    powers."      A 
harder  warfare  this  than  that  which  is  matter  of 
sense,  a  fiercer  conflict.     Think  how  long  time 
this  enemy  is  wrestling,  for  what  it  is  that  he 
is  fighting,  and  be    more   guarded   than    ever. 
"  Nay,"  a  man  will  say,  "  but  as  he  is  the  devil, 
he  ought  to  have  been  removed  out  of  the  way, 
and  then  all  had  been  saved." 2    These  are  the 
pretenses  to  which  some  of  your  indolent  ones 
in   self-defense    give    utterance.     When    thou 
oughtest  to  be  thankful,  O  man,  that,  if  thou 
hast  a  mind,  thou  hast  the  victory  over  such  a 
foe,  thou  art  on  the  contrary  even  discontented, 
and  givest  utterance  to  the  words  of  some  slug- 
gish and   sleepy  soldier.     Thou    knowest  the 
points  of  attack,3  if  thou  choosest.     Reconnoiter 
on  all  sides,  fortify  thyself.     Not  against  the 
devil  alone  is  the  conflict,  but  also  against  his 
powers.    How  then,  you  may  say,  are  we   to 
wrestle  with  the  darkness  ?     By  becoming  light. 
How  with  the  "  spiritual  hosts  of  wickedness  "  ? 
By  becoming  good.     For  wickedness  is  contrary 
to  good,  and  light  drives  away  darkness.     But  if 
we  ourselves  too  be  darkness,  we  shall  inevita- 
bly be  taken  captive.     How  then  shall  we  over- 
come them  ?     If,  what  they  are  by  nature,  that 
we  become  by  choice,  free  from  flesh  and  blood, 
thus  shall  we  vanquish  them.     For  since  it  was 
probable  that  the  disciples   would  have   many 
persecutors,  "  imagine  not,"  he  would  say,  "  that 
it  is  they  who  war  with  you.     They  that  really 
war  with  you,  are  the  spirits  that  work  in  them. 
Against  them  is  our  conflict."     Two  things  he 
provides  for  by  these  considerations  ;  he  renders 

,Le."buta'day.,M 

'  [This  entire  sentence  and  the  preceding  one,  though  attested 
vj  three  MSS.  and  read  by  Savile,  are  wanting  in  the  text  of  Field, 
•ho  has,  in  their  stead,  NO*  oiv  ^A0«,  faalv,  cpol  iraAaitrat, "  Now 
tbeo,"  tars  some  one,  '*  he  has  come  to  wrestle  with  me,"  which 
**«■*  to  leave  the  sense  incomplete,  and  does  not  suit  the  following 
Kttence.  See  note  on  page  8a.  —  G.  A.]  .  *  Aa£at. 


them  in  themselves  more  courageous  and  he  lets 
loose  their  wrath  against  those  who  war  against 
them.  And  wherefore  is  our  conflict  against 
these?  Since  we  have  also  an  invincible  ally, 
the  grace  of  the  Spirit.  We  have  been  taught 
an  art,  such  as  shall  enable  us  to  wrestle  not 
against  men,  but  against  spirits.  Nay,  if  we 
have  a  mind,  neither  shall  we  wrestle  at  all ;  for 
it  is  because  we  choose  it,  that  there  is  a  strug- 
gle, since  so  great  is  the  power  of  Him  that 
dwelleth  in  us,  as  that  He  said,  "  Behold,  I  have 
given  you  authority  to  tread  upon  serpents  and 
scorpions,  and  over  all  the  power  of  the  enemy." 
(Luke  x.  19.)  All  power  hath  He  given  us, 
both  of  wrestling  and  of  not  wrestling.  It  is 
because  we  are  slothful,  that  we  have  to  wrestle 
with  them ;  for  that  Paul  wrestled  not,  hear  what 
he  saith  himself,  "  Who  shall  separate  us  from 
the  love  of  Christ?  shall  tribulation,  or  anguish, 
or  persecution,  or  famine,  or  nakedness,  or 
peril,  or  sword?"  (Rom.  viii.  35.)  And  again 
hear  his  words,  "  God  shall  bruise  Satan  under 
your  feet  shortly."  (Rom.  xvi.  20.)  For  he  had 
him  under  his  subjection ;  whence  also  he  said, 
<%  I  charge  thee  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ  to 
come  out  of  her."  (Acts  xvi.  18.)  And  this  is 
not  the  language  of  one  wrestling ;  for  he  that 
wrestles  has  not  yet  conquered,  and  he  that  has 
conquered  no  longer  wrestles  ;  he  has  subdued, 
has  taken  his  captive.  And  so  Peter  again 
wrestled  not  with  the  devil,  but  he  did  that 
which  was  better  than  wrestling.  In  the  case  of 
the  faithful,  the  obedient,  the  catechumens,  they 
prevailed  over  him  to  vast  advantage  and  over 
his  powers.  Hence  too  was  it  that  the  blessed 
Paul  said,  "  For  we  are  not  ignorant  of  his  de- 
vices "*  (2  Cor.  ii.  1 1 ),  which  was  the  way  more- 
over in  which  he  especially  overcame  him  ;  and 
again  hear  his  words,  "  And  no  marvel  —  if  his 
ministers  also  fashion  themselves  as  ministers  of 
righteousness."  (2  Cor.  xi.  14,  15.)  So  well 
knew  he  every  part  of  the  conflict,  and  nothing 
escaped  him.  Again,  "  For  the  mystery  of  law- 
lessness," saith  he,  "doth  already  work."  (2 
Thess.  ii.  7.) 

But  against  us  is  the  struggle ;  for  hearken 
again  to  him,  saying,  "I  am  persuaded,  that 
neither  angels,  nor  principalities,  nor  things 
present,  nor  things  to  come,  nor  powers,  nor 
any  other  creature,  shall  be  able  to  separate  us 
from  the  love  of  Christ."  (Rom.  viii.  38.)  He 
saith  not  simply,  "  from  Christ,"  but,  "  from  the 
love  of  Christ." 4  For  many  there  are  who  are 
united  forsooth  to  Christ,  and  who  yet  love  Him 
not.  Not  only,  saith  he,  shalt  thou  not  persuade 
me  to  deny  Him,  but,  not  even  to  love  Him 
less.  And  if  the  powers  above  had  not  strength 
to  do  this,  who  else  should  move  him?     Not, 

4  [This  text  in  Rom.  has,  "  from  the  love  of  God  which  is  in 
Christ  Jesus  our  Lord."  —  G.  A.J 


l62 


WORKS   OF   ST.    CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  XXII. 


however,  that  he  saith  this,  as  though  they  were 
actually  attempting  it,  but  upon  the  supposi- 
tion ;  wherefore  also  he  said,  "  I  am  persuaded." 
So  then  he  did  not  wrestle,  yet  nevertheless  he 
fears  his  artifices ;  for  hear  what  he  saith,  "  I 
fear  lest  by  any  means,  as  the  serpent  beguiled 
Eve  in  his  craftiness,  your  minds  should  be  cor- 
rupted from  the  simplicity  that  is  toward 
Christ."  (2  Cor.  xi.  3.)  True,  you  will  say, 
but  he  uses  this  word  touching  himself  also, 
where  he  saith,  "  For  I  fear *  lest,  by  any 
means,  after  that  I  have  preached  to  others, 
I  myself  should  be  rejected.' '  How  then  art 
thou  "persuaded  that  no  one  shall  separate 
thee "  ?  Perceivest  thou  that  the  expression 
is  that  of  lowliness  and  of  humility?  For  he 
already  dwelt  in  Heaven.  And  hence  also  it 
was  that  he  said,  "  For  I  know  nothing  against 
myself"  (1  Cor.  iv.  4)  ;  and  again,  "  I  have  fin- 
ished the  course."  (2  Tim.  iv.  7.)  So  that  it 
was  not  with  regard  to  these  matters  that  the 
devil  placed  obstacles  in  his  way,  but  with  refer- 
ence to  the  interests  of  the  disciples.  And  why 
forsooth  ?  Because  in  these  points  he  was  not 
himself  sole  master,  but  also  their  own  will. 
There  the  devil  prevailed  in  some  cases ;  nay, 
neither  there  was  it  over  him  that  he  prevailed, 
but  over  the  indolence  of  persons  who  took  no 
heed.  If  indeed,  whether  from  slothfulness,  or 
anything  else  of  the  sort,  he  had  failed  to  fulfill 
his  own  duty,  then  had  the  devil  prevailed  over 
him ;  but  if  he  himself  on  his  part  did  all  he 
could,  and  they  obeyed  not,  it  was  not  over  him 
he  prevailed,  but  over  their  disobedience ;  and 
the  disease  prevailed  not  over  the  physician,  but 
over  the  unruliness  of  the  patient;  for,  when 
the  physician  takes  every  precaution,  and  the 
patient  undoes  all,  the  patient  is  defeated,  not 
the  physician.  Thus  then  in  no  instance  did  he 
prevail  over  Paul.  But  in  our  own  case,  it  is 
matter  for  contentment  that  we  should  be  so 
much  as  able  to  wrestle.  For  the  Romans  in- 
deed this  is  not  what  he  asks,  but  what  ?  "  He 
shall  bruise  Satan  under  your  feet  shortly." 
(Rom.  xvi.  20.)  And  for  these  Ephesians  he 
invokes,  u  Him  that  is  able  to  do  exceeding 
abundantly  above  all  that  we  ask  or  think." 
(Eph.  iii.  20.)  He  that  wrestles  is  still  held 
fast,  but  it  is  enough  for  him  that  he  has  not 
fallen.  When  we  depart  hence,  then,  and  not 
till  then,  will  the  glorious  victory  be  achieved. 
For  instance,  take  the  case  of  some  evil  lust. 
The  extraordinary  thing  would  be,  not  even  to 
entertain  it,  but  to  stifle  it.  If,  however,  this 
be  not  possible,  then  though  we  may  have  to 
wrestle  with  it,  and  retain  it  to  the  last,  yet  if 
we  depart  still  wrestling,   we   are   conquerors. 


1  [The  words,  "  I  fear,"  (ftofiovtiat  yap,  are  not  in  the  text  of 
1  Cor.  ix.  27.     See  note  i  on  page  157.  —  G.  A.J 


For  the  case  is  not  the  same  here  as  it  is  with 
wrestlers  ;  for  there  if  thou  throw  not  thy  antag- 
onist, thou  hast  not  conquered ;  but  here  if  thou 
be  not  thrown,  thou  hast  conquered  ;  if  thou  art 
not  thrown,  thou  hast  thrown  him ;  and  with 
reason,  because  there  both  strive  for  the  victor)', 
and  when  the  one  is  thrown,  the  other  is 
crowned ;  here,  however,  it  is  not  thus,  but 
the  devil  is  striving  for  our  defeat ;  when  then 
I  strip  him  of  that  upon  which  he  is  bent,  I  am 
conqueror.  For  it  is  not  to  overthrow  us,  but 
to  make  us  share  his  overthrow  that  he  is  eager. 
Already  then  am  I  conqueror,  for  he  is  already 
cast  down,  and  in  a  state  of  ruin  ;  and  his  vic- 
tory consists  not  in  being  himself  crowned,  but 
in  effecting  my  ruin;  so  that  though  I  over- 
throw him  not,  yet  if  I  be  not  overthrown,  I 
have  conquered.  What  then  is  a  glorious  vic- 
tory? It  is,  over  and  above,  to  trample  him 
underfoot,  as  Paul  did,  by  regarding  the  things 
of  this  present  world  as  nothing.  Let  us  too 
imitate  him,  and  strive  to  become  above  them, 
and  nowhere  to  give  him  a  hold  upon  us. 
Wealth,  possessions,  vain-glory,  give  him  a  hold. 
And  oftentimes  indeed  this  has  roused  him,  and 
oftentimes  exasperated  him.  But  what  need  is 
there  of  wrestling?  What  need  of  engaging 
with  him?  He  who  is  engaged  in  the  act  of 
wrestling  has  the  issue  in  uncertainty,  whether 
he  may  not  be  himself  defeated  and  captured. 
Whereas  he  that  tramples  him  under  foot,  has 
the  victory  certain. 

Oh  then,  let  us  trample  under  foot  the  power 
of  the  devil ;  let  us  trample  under  foot  our  sins, 
I  mean  everything  that  pertains  to  this  life, 
wrath,  lust,  vain-glory,  every  passion  ;  that  when 
we  depart  to  that  world,  we  may  not  be  con- 
victed of  betraying  that  power  which  God  hath 
given  us ;  for  thus  shall  we  attain  also  the  bless- 
ings that  are  to  come.  But  if  in  this  we  are 
unfaithful,  who  will  entrust  us  with  those  things 
which  are  greater?  If  we  were  not  able  to 
trample  down  one  who  had  fallen,  who  had  been 
disgraced,  who  had  been  despised,  who  was  ly- 
ing beneath  our  feet,  how  shall  the  Father  give 
us  a  Father's  rewards?  If  we  subdue  not  one 
so  placed  in  subjection  to  us,  what  confidence 
shall  we  have  to  enter  into  our  Father's  house? 
For,  tell  me,  suppose  thou  hadst  a  son,  and, 
that  he,  disregarding  the  well-disposed  part  of 
thy  household,  should  associate  with  them  that 
have  distressed  thee,  with  them  that  have  been 
expelled  his  father's  house,  with  them  that 
spend  their  time  at  the  gaming  table,  and  that 
he  should  go  on  so  doing  to  the  very  last ;  will 
he  not  be  disinherited  ?  It  is  plain  enough  he 
will.  And  so  too  shall  we  ;  if,  disregarding  the 
Angels  who  have  well  pleased  our  Father  and 
whom  He  hath  set  over  us,  we  have  our  conver- 
sation with  the  devil,  inevitably  we  shall  be  dis- 


HOMU.Y  XXIII.] 


HOMILIES   ON   EPHESIANS. 


163 


inherited,  which  God  forbid ;  but  let  us  engage 
in  the  war  we  have  to  wage  with  him. 

If  any  one  hath  an  enemy,  if  any  one  hath  been 

wronged  by  him,  if  any  one  is  exasperated,  let 

him   collect   together  all   that   wrath,  all   that 

fierceness,  and  pour  it  out  upon  the  head  of  the 

devil.     Here  wrath  is  a  good  thing,  here  anger 

is  profitable,  here  revenge  is  praiseworthy,  for 

just  as  amongst  the  heathen,  revenge  is  a  vice, 

so  truly  here  is  revenge  a  virtue.     So  then  if 

thou  hast  any  failings,  rid  thyself  of  them  here. 

And  if  thou  art  not  able  thyself  to  put  them 

away,  do  it,  though  with   thy  members  also.1 

Hath  any  one  struck  thee  ?    Bear  malice  against 

the    devil,    and    never    relinquish    thy  hatred 

towards  him.     Or  again,  hath  no   one   struck 

thee?    Yet  bear  him  malice  still,  because  he 

insulted,   because   he   offended   thy  Lord   and 

Master,  because  he  injures  and  wars  against  thy 

brethren.    With  him  be  ever  at  enmity,  ever 


implacable,  ever  merciless.  Thus  shall  he  be 
humbled,  thus  despicable,  thus  shall  he  be  an 
easy  prey.  If  we  are  fierce  towards  him,  he 
shall  never  be  fierce  towards  us.  If  we  are 
compliant,  then  he  will  be  fierce ;  it  is  not  with 
him  as  it  is  with  our  brethren.  He  is  the  foe 
and  enemy,  both  of  life  and  salvation,  both  ours 
and  his  own.  If  he  loves  not  himself,  how  shall 
he  be  able  to  love  us  ?  Let  us  then  put  our- 
selves in  array  and  wound  him,  having  for  our 
mighty  confederate  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  who 
can  both  render  us  impregnable  to  his  snares, 
and  worthy  of  the  good  things  to  come ;  which 
God  grant  that  we  may  all  attain,  through  the 
grace  and  lovingkindness  of  our  Lord  Jesus 
Christ,  with  whom,  together  with  the  Holy 
Ghost,  be  unto  the  Father,  glory,  might,  and 
honor,  now  and  ever,  and  throughout  all  ages. 
Amen. 


HOMILY    XXIII. 


Ephesians  vi.  14. 


■  Stmd  therefore,  having  girded  your  loins  with  truth." 

Having  drawn  up  this  army,  and  roused  their 
zeal, — for  both  these  things  were  requisite,  both 
that  they  should  be  drawn  up  in  array  and  sub- 
ject to  each  other,  and  that  their  spirit  should 
be  aroused,  —  and  having  inspired  them  with 
courage,  for  this  was.  requisite  also,  he  next  pro- 
ceeds also  to  arm  them.  For  arms  had  been 
of  no  use,  had  they  not  been  first  posted  each 
in  his  own  place,  and  had  not  the  spirit  of  the 
soldier's  soul  been  roused;  for  we  must  first 
arm  him  within,  and  then  without. 

Now  if  this  is  the  case  with  soldiers,  much 
more  is  it  with  spiritual  soldiers.  Or  rather  in 
their  case,  there  is  no  such  thing  as  arming  them 
without,  but  everything  is  within.  He  hath  roused 
their  ardor,  and  set  it  on  fire,  he  hath  added 
confidence.  He  hath  set  them  in  due  array. 
Observe  how  he  also  puts  on  the  armor.  "  Stand 
therefore,"  *  saith  he.  The  very  first  feature  in 
tactics  is,  to  know  how  to  stand  well,  and  many 
things  will  depend  upon  that  Hence  he  dis- 
courses much  concerning  standing,  saying  also 
elsewhere,  "Watch  ye,  stand  fast."      (1   Cor. 


'  [We  hare  here  followed  the  text  of  Sayile  (supported  by  three 
*SS.),  at  follows:  ct  6i  py  ivvoaax  airrb*  ano$iadai,  Kay  ficrd  rwy 
*****  rwr  rov,  in  preference  to  the  textof  Field,  which  has  ct  pi) 
"••wt  «vtA  *w0oia0ax,  if  firra.  ritv  fitKuv  ritv  trZ»v.  —  G.  A.] 

1  [" '  Stand.'  here,  is  not,  like  the  preceding  arrival  (in  verse  13) , 
«e  Handing  of  the  victor,  but  the  '  standing  forth  of  the  man  ready 
far  the  combs*/*— Meyer.— G.  A.] 


xvi.  13.)  And  again,  "So  stand  fast  in  the 
Lord."  (Phil.  iv.  i.)  And  again,  "Let  him 
that  thinketh  he  standeth,  take  heed  lest  he 
fall."  (1  Cor.  x.  12.)  And  again,  "That  ye 
may  be  able,  having  done  all,  to  stand."  (Eph. 
vi.  13.)  Doubtless  then  he  does  not  mean 
merely  any  way  of  standing,  but  a  correct  way, 
and  as  many  as  have  had  experience  in  wars 
know  how  great  a  point  it  is  to  know  how  to 
stand.  For  if  in  the  case  of  boxers  and  wres- 
tlers, the  trainer  recommends  this  before  any- 
thing else,  namely,  to  stand  firm,  much  more 
will  it  be  the  first  thing  in  warfare,  and  military 
matters. 

The  man  who,  in  a  true  sense,  stands,  is  up- 
right ;  he  stands  not  in  a  lazy  attitude,  not  lean- 
ing upon  anything.  Exact  uprightness  discovers 
itself  by  the  way  of  standing,  so  that  they  who 
are  perfectly  upright,  they  stand.  But  they  who 
do  not  stand,  cannot  be  upright,  but  are  un- 
strung and  disjointed.  The  luxurious  man  does 
not  stand  upright,  but  is  bent ;  so  is  the  lewd 
man,  and  the  lover  of  money.  He  who  knows 
how  to  stand  will  from  his  very  standing,  as  from 
a  sort  of  foundation,  find  every  part  of  the  con- 
flict easy  to  him. 

"  Stand  therefore,"  saith  he,  "  having  girded 
your  loins  with  truth." 3 

He  is  not  speaking  of  a  literal,  physical  gir- 

*  Compare  Isa.  xi.  5. 


164 


WORKS   OF   ST.    CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  XXIII. 


die,  for  all  the  language  in  this  passage  he 
employs  in  a  spiritual  sense.1  And  observe  how 
methodically  he  proceeds.  First  he  girds  up 
his  soldier.9  What  then  is  the  meaning  of  this  ? 
The  man  that  is  loose  in  his  life,  and  is  dissolved 
in  his  lusts,  and  that  has  his  thoughts  trailing  on 
the  ground,  him  he  braces  up  by  means  of  this 
girdle,  not  suffering  him  to  be  impeded  by  the 
garments  entangling  his  legs,  but  leaving  him  to 
run  with  his  feet  well  at  liberty.  "  Stand  there- 
fore, having  girded  your  loins,"  saith  he.  By 
the  "  loins  "  here  he  means  this  ;  just  what  the 
keel  is  in  ships,  the  same  are  the  loins  with  us, 
the  basis  or  groundwork  of  the  whole  body  :  for 
they  are,  as  it  were,  a  foundation,  and  upon 
them  as  the  schools  of  the  physicians  tell  you, 
the  whole  frame  is  built.  So  then  in  "  girding 
up  the  loins "  he  compacts  the  foundation  of 
our  soul ;  for  he  is  not  of  course  speaking  of 
these  loins  of  our  body,  but  is  discoursing  spirit- 
ually :  and  as  the  loins  are  the  foundation  alike 
of  the  parts  both  above  and  below,  so  is  it  also 
in  the  case  of  these  spiritual  loins.  Oftentimes, 
we  know,  when  persons  are  fatigued,  they  put 
their  hands  there  as  if  upon  a  sort  of  foundation, 
and  in  that  manner  support  themselves  ;  and  for 
this  reason  it  is  that  the  girdle  is  used  in  war, 
that  it  may  bind  and  hold  together  this  founda- 
tion, as  it  were,  in  our  frame  ;  for  this  reason  too 
it  is  that  when  we  run  we  gird  ourselves.  It  is 
this  which  guards  our  strength.  Let  this  then, 
saith  he,  be  done  also  with  respect  to  the  soul, 
and  then  in  doing  anything  whatsoever  we  shall 
be  strong;  and  it  is  a  thing  most  especially 
becoming  to  soldiers. 

True,  you  may  say,  but  these  our  natural  loins 
we  gird  with  a  leathern  band ;  but  we,  spiritual 
soldiers,  with  what?  I  answer,  with  that  which 
is  the  head  and  crown  of  all  our  thoughts,  I 
mean,  "with  truth."  "  Having  girded  your  loins," 
saith  he,  "with  truth."8  What  then  is  the  mean- 
ing of  "  with  truth  "?  Let  us  love  nothing  like 
falsehood,  all  our  duties  let  us  pursue  "with 
truth,"  let  us  not  lie  one  to  another.  Whether 
it  be  an  opinion,  let  us  seek  the  truth,  or 
whether  it  be  a  line  of  life,  let  us  seek  the  true 
one.  If  we  fortify  ourselves  with  this,  if  we 
"gird  ourselves  with  truth,"  then  shall  no  one 
overcome  us.  He  who  seeks  the  doctrine  of 
truth,  shall  never  fall  down  to  the  earth ;  for 
that  the  things  which  are  not  true  are  of  the 
earth,  is  evident  from  this,  that  all  they  that  are 
without  are  enslaved  to  the  passions,  following 

2  ["  As  for  the  actual  warrior,  the  whole  apt  us  habitus  (prepared 
state)  for  the  combat  would  be  wanting  in  the  absence  of  the  girdle*. 
so  also  for  the  spiritual  warrior,  if  he  is  not  furnished  with  truth."  — 
Meyer. —G.  A.) 

*  ["It  is  clear  that  truth  does  not  mean  'objectively  the  gospel,' 
for  that  is  designated  later,  ver.  17,  by  prffia  0(oi>  ('  the  word  of  God  '), 
but '  subjectively.'  truth  as  an  inward  property,  i.e.  the  '  harmony  of 
knowledge  with  the  objective  truth  given  in  the  gospel.' "  —  Meyer. 
—  G.  A.j 


their  own  reasonings ;  and  therefore  if  we  are 
sober,  we  shall  need  no  instruction  in  the  tales 
of  the  Greeks.  Seest  thou  how  weak  and  friv- 
olous they  are  ?  incapable  of  entertaining  about 
God  one  severe  thought  or  anything  above 
human  reasoning?  Why?  Because  they  are  not 
"  girded  about  with  truth  "  ;  because  their  loins, 
the  receptacle  of  the  seed  of  life,  and  the  main 
strength  of  their  reasonings,  are  ungirt;  noth- 
ing then  can  be  weaker  than  these.  And  the 
Manicheans4  again,  seest  thou,  how  all  the* 
things  they  have  the  boldness  to  utter,  are  from 
their  own  reasonings?  "It  was  impossible," 
say  they,  "  for  God  to  create  the  world  without 
matter."  Whence  is  this  so  evident?  These 
things  they  say,  groveling,  and  from  the  earth, 
and  from  what  happens  amongst  ourselves ;  be- 
cause man,  they  say,  cannot  create  otherwise. 
Marcion  again,  look  what  he  says.  "God,  if 
He  took  upon  Him  flesh,  could  not  remain 
pure."  WThence  is  this  evident?  "Because," 
says  he,  "  neither  can  men."  But  men  are  able 
to  do  this.  Valentinus  again,  with  his  reasonings 
all  trailing  along  the  ground,  speaks  the  things 
of  the  earth ;  and  in  like  manner  Paul  of 
Samosata.  And  Arius,  what  does  he  say?  "It 
was  impossible  for  God  when  He  begat,  to  beget 
without  passion."  fi  Whence,  Arius,  hast  thou  the 
boldness  to  allege  this ;  merely  from  the  things 
which  take  place  amongst  ourselves?  Seest  thou 
how  the  reasonings  of  all  these  trail  along  on 
the  ground  ?  All  are,  as  it  were,  let  loose  and 
unconfined,  and  savoring  of  the  earth  ?  And  so 
much  then  for  doctrines.  With  regard  to  life 
and  conduct,  again,  whoremongers,  lovers  of 
money,  and  of  glory,  and  of  everything  else, 
trail  on  the  ground.  They  have  not  their  loins 
themselves  standing  firm,  so  that  when  they  are 
weary  they  may  rest  upon  them ;  but  when  they 
are  weary,  they  do  not  put  their  hands  upon 
them  and  stand  upright,  but  flag.  He,  however, 
who  "  is  girt  about  with  the  truth,"  first,  never 
is  weary ;  and  secondly,  if  he  should  be  weary, 
he  will  rest  himself  upon  the  truth  itself.  What? 
Will  poverty,  tell  me,  render  him  weary?  No, 
in  nowise  ;  for  he  will  repose  on  the  true  riches, 
and  by  this  poverty  will  understand  what  is  true 
poverty.  Or  again,  will  slavery  make  him  weary? 
No,  in  nowise,  for  he  will  know  what  is  the  true 
slavery.  Or  shall  disease?  No,  nor  even  that 
"  Let  your  loins,"  saith  Christ,  "  be  girded 
about,  and  your  lamps  burning"  (Luke  xii.  35), 
with  that  light  which  shall  never  be  put  out 
This  is  what  the  Israelites  also,  when  they  were 
departing   out   of  Egypt    (Ex.   xii.   11),   were 


4  The  Manichees  considered  matter  to  be  uncreate;  vid.  Note  on 
St.  Augustine's  Confessions.  ».b.  The  Marcionites  considered  nut- 
ter intrinsically  evil;  vid.  Theod.  Hetr.  i.  24.  Valentinus  denied 
that  our  Lord  was  born  of  the  substance  of  Mary;  vid.  St.  Cyril, 
Led.  iv.  9.    Paul  of  Samosata  and  Arius  both  denied  His  Godhead. 

0  aira0«i>f. 


'  UNIVERSITY    \ 


Homily  XXIII.] 


or 

HOMILIES   ON   EPHESIANS. 


165 


charged  to  do.     For  why  did  they  eat  the  pass- 
over  with  their  loins  girded  ?    Art  thou  desirous 
to  hear  the  ground  of  it?    According  to  the  his- 
torical fact,  or  according  to  its  mystical  sense,1 
shall  I  state  it?     But  I  will  state  them  both, 
and  do  ye  retain  it  in  mind,  for  I  am  not  doing 
it  without  an  object,  merely  that  I  may  tell  you 
the  solution,  but  also  that  my  words  may  become 
in  you  reality.     They  had,  we  read,  their  loins 
girded,  and  their  staff  in  their  hands,  and  their 
shoes  on    their    feet,   and    thus    they   ate   the 
Passover.     Awful  and  terrible  mysteries,  and  of 
vast  depth ;  and  if  so  terrible  in  the  type,  how 
much  more  in  the  reality?  They  come  forth  out 
of  Egypt,  they  eat  the  Passover.    Attend.    ''Our 
Passover  hath  been  sacrificed,  even  Christ,"  it 
is  said.     Wherefore  did  they  have   their  loins 
girded?    Their  guise  is  that  of  wayfarers;  for 
their  having  shoes,  and  staves  in  their  hands,  and 
their  eating  standing,  declares  nothing  else  than 
this.    Will  ye  hear  the  history  first,  or  the  mys- 
tery?* Better  the  history  first.     What  then  is  the 
design  of  the  history?    The  Jews  were  continu- 
ally forgetting  God's  benefits  to  them.     Accord- 
ingly then,  God   tied   the  sense  of  these,  His 
benefits,  not  only  to  the  time,  but  also  to  the 
very  habit  of  them  that  were  to  eat.     For  this 
is  why  they  were  to  eat  girded  and  sandalled, 
that  when   they  were  asked   the  reason,  they 
might  say,  "  we  were  ready  for  our  journey,  we 
were  just  about  to  go  forth  out  of  Egypt  to  the 
land  of  promise  and  we  were  ready  for  our  ex- 
odus."   This  then  is  the  historical  type.     But 
the  reality  is  this ;  we  too  eat  a  Passover,  even 
Christ ;  "  for,"   saith   he,   "  our  Passover  hath 
been  sacrificed,  even  Christ."    (1  Cor.  v.  7.) 
What  then  ?    We  too  ought  to  eat  it,  both  san- 
dalled and  girded.    And  why?    That  we  too 
may  be  ready  for  our  Exodus,  for  our  departure 
hence. 

Moral.  Let  not  any  one  of  them  that  eat 
this  Passover  look  towards  Egypt,  but  towards 
Heaven,  towards  "Jerusalem  that  is  above." 
(GaL  iv.  26.)  On  this  account  thou  eatest  with 
thy  loins  girded,  on  this  account  thou  eatest  with 
shoes  on  thy  feet,  that  thou  mayest  know,  that 
60m  the  moment  thou  first  beginnest  to  eat  the 
hssover,  thou  oughtest  to  set  out,  and  to  be 


1  The  word  JumymyTf,  when  used  of  Scripture  exposition,  has 
~  es,  but  always  implies  an   interpretation  not  literal, 

or  historical.  Sometimes  it  stands  for  a  "  moral "  in- 
_  ue.  one  conveying;  a  moral  lesson;  e.g.  Chrys.  in 
Aafa  aria,  (xao)  init. ;  Basil,  im  Esau  v.  §  15a.  Sometimes  for  an 
■HuiiLLuion  with  reference  simply  to  heavenly  persons  and  things ; 
til  Hoftheim,  de  Reb.  ante  Const,  p.  644 ;  Dionys.  Hie  rare  h  Cat. 
*•  *■  Origen  enumerates  three  senses  of  Scripture,  literal,  moral, 
■d  stysncal,  the  last  being  either  allegorical  or  anagogical ;  Clem- 
y  fear,  literal,  moral,  mystical,  and  prophetical;  but  the  more 
ttMftaa  division  has  been  tnto  literal,  tropological,  allegorical,  and 
sufogicaL  [Cassian,  a  pupil  of  Cnrysostom,  defines  avaywyri: 
A**ftfe  verm  ds  sfiritalibu*  mysUriis  ad  sublimiora  quaedam 
^latratwra  coelerum  secreta  conscendens,  "  leading  up  from 
Jwnal  mysteries  to  higher  and  more  sacred  secrets  of  heaven." 
fcatoSophocks'  Greek Ux.  sup  "«wm."  —  G.  A.] 


upon  thy  journey.  And  this  implies  two  things, 
both  that  we  must  depart  out  of  Egypt,  and  that, 
whilst  we  stay,  we  must  stay  henceforth  as  in  a 
strange  country  ;  "  for  our  citizenship,"  saith  he, 
"  is  in  Heaven  "  (Phil.  iii.  20)  \  and  that  all  our 
life  long  we  should  ever  be  prepared,  so  that 
when  we  are  called  we  may  not  put  it  off,  but 
say,  "  My  heart  is  fixed."  (Ps.  cviii.  1.)  "  Yes, 
but  this  Paul  indeed  could  say,  who  knew  noth- 
ing against  himself;  but  I,  who  require  a  long 
time  for  repentance,  I  cannot  say  it."  Yet  that 
to  be  girded  is  the  part  of  a  waking  soul, 
hearken  to  what  God  says  to  that  righteous  man, 
"  Gird  up  now  thy  loins  like  a  man,  for  I  will 
demand  of  thee,  and  declare  thou  unto  Me." 
(Job  xxxviii.  3.)  This  He  says  also  to  all  the 
prophets,  and  this  He  says  again  to  Moses,  to 
be  girded.  And  He  Himself  also  appears  to 
Ezekiei  (Ezek.  ix.  n,  Sept.)  girded.  Nay 
more,  and  the  Angels,  too,  appear  to  us  girded 
(Rev.  xv.  6),  as  being  soldiers.  From  our  being 
girded  about,  it  comes  that  we  also  stand 
bravely  as  from  our  standing  our  being  girded 
comes. 

For  we  also  are  going  to  depart,  and  many 
are  the  difficulties  that  intervene.  When  we 
have  crossed  this  plain,  straightway  the  devil  is 
upon  us,  doing  everything,  contriving  every  arti- 
fice, to  the  end  that  those  who  have  been  saved 
out  of  Egypt,  those  who  have  passed  the  Red 
Sea,  those  who  are  delivered  at  once  from  the 
evil  demons,  and  from  unnumbered  plagues,  may 
be  taken  and  destroyed  by  him.  But,  if  we  be 
vigilant,  we  too  have  a  pillar  of  fire,  the  grace  of 
the  Spirit.  The  same  both  enlightens  and  over- 
shadows, us.  We  have  manna ;  yea  rather  not 
manna,  but  far  more  than  manna.  Spiritual 
drink  we  have,  not  water,  that  springs  forth  from 
the  Rock.  So  have  we  too  our  encampment 
(Rev.  xx.  9),  and  we  dwell  in  the  desert  even 
now ;  for  a  desert  indeed  without  virtue,  is  the 
earth  even  now,  even  more  desolate  than  that 
wilderness.  Why  was  that  desert  so  terrible? 
Was  it  not  because  it  had  scorpions  in  it,  and 
adders?  (Deut.  viii.  15.)  "A  land,"  it  is  said, 
"  which  none  passed  through."  (Jer.  ii.  6.)  Yet 
is  not  that  wilderness,  no,  it  is  not  so  barren  of 
fruits,  as  is  this  human  nature.  At  this  instant, 
how  many  scorpions,  how  many  asps  are  in 
this  wilderness,  how  many  serpents,  how  many 
"  offsprings  of  vipers "  (Matt.  iii.  7)  are  these 
through  whom  we  at  this  instant  pass  !  Yet  let 
us  not  be  afraid ;  for  the  leader  of  this  our 
Exodus  is  not  Moses,  but  Jesus. 

How  then  is  it  that  we  shall  not  suffer  the 
same  things?  Let  us  not  commit  the  same 
acts,  and  then  shall  we  not  suffer  the  same 
punishment.  They  murmured,  they  were  un- 
grateful ;  let  us  therefore  not  cherish  these  pas- 
sions.    How  was  it  that  they  fell  all  of  them? 


1 66 


WORKS  OF  ST.   CHRYSOSTOM. 


[He* 


"They  despised  the  pleasant  land."  (Ps.  cvi. 
24.)  "How  'despised'  it?  Surely  they  prized 
it  highly."  By  becoming  indolent  and  cow- 
ardly, and  not  choosing  to  undergo  any  labors 
to  obtain  it.  Let  not  us  then  "despise" 
Heaven  !  This  is  what  is  meant  by  "  despis- 
ing." Again,  among  us  also  has  fruit  been 
brought,  fruit  from  Heaven,  not  the  cluster 
of  grapes  borne  upon  the  staff  (Num.  xiii.  23), 
but  the  "earnest  of  the  Spirit"  (2  Cor.  i.  22), 
"  the  citizenship  which  is  in  Heaven  "  (Phil.  iii. 
20),  which  Paul  and  the  whole  company  of  the 
Apostles,  those  marvelous  husbandmen,  have 
taught  us.  It  is  not  Caleb  the  son  of  Jephunneh, 
nor  Jesus  the  son  of  Nun,  that  hath  brought 
these  fruits  ;  but  Jesus  the  Son  of  "  the  Father 
of  mercies"  (2  Cor.  i.  3),  the  Son  of  the  Very 
God,  hath  brought  every  virtue,  hath  brought 
down  from  Heaven  all  the  fruits  that  are  from 
thence,  the  songs  of  heaven  hath  He  brought. 
For  the  words  which  the  Cherubim  above  say, 
these  hath  He  charged  us  to  say  also,  "  Holy, 
Holy,  Holy."1  He  hath  brought  to  us  the 
virtue  of  the  Angels.  "  The  Angels  marry  not, 
neither  are  given  in  marriage  "  ( Matt.  xxii.  30)  ; 
this  fair  plant  hath  He  planted  here  also.  They 
love  not  money,  nor  anything  like  it;  and  this 
too  hath  He  sown  amongst  us.  They  never  die  ; 
and  this  hath  He  freely  given  us  also,  for  death 
is  no  longer  death,  but  sleep.  For  hearken  to 
what  He  saith,  "  Our  friend  Lazarus  is  fallen 
asleep."     (John  xi.  11.) 

Seest  thou  then  the  fruits  of  "  Jerusalem  that 
is  above  "  ?  (Gal.  iv.  26.)  And  what  is  indeed 
more  stupendous  than  all  is  this,  that  our  war- 
fare is  not  decided,  but  all  these  things  are 
given  us  before  the  attainment  of  the  promise  ! 
For  they  indeed  toiled  even  after  they  had 
entered  into  the  land  of  promise  ;  —  rather,  they 
toiled  not,  for  had  they  chosen  to  obey  God, 
they  might  have  taken  all  the  cities,  without 
either  arms  or  array.  Jericho,  we  know,  they 
overturned,  more  after  the  fashion  of  dancers 
than  of  warriors.  We  however  have  no  warfare 
after  we  have  entered  into  the  land  of  promise, 
that  is,  into  Heaven,  but  only  so  long  as  we  are 
in  the  wilderness,  that  is,  in  the  present  life. 
"  For  he  that  is  entered  into  his  rest  hath  him- 
self also  rested  from  his  works  as  God  did  from 
His."  (Heb.  iv.  10.)  "Let  us  not  then  be 
weary  in  well-doing,  for  in  due  season  we  shall 
reap,  if  we  faint  not."  (Gal.  vi.  9.)  Seest  thou 
how  that  just  as  He  led  them,  so  also  He  leads 
us?     In  their  case,  touching  the  manna  and  the 


wilderness,  it  is  said,  "He  that  gathered  much 
had  nothing  over,  and  he  that  gathered  little  had 
no  lack."  (Ex.  xvi.  18.)  And  we  have  this 
charge  given  us,  "  not  to  lay  up  treasure  upon 
the  earth."  (Matt.  vi.  19.)  But  if  we  do  lay 
up  treasure,  it  is  no  longer  the  earthly  worm 
that  corrupts  it,  as  was  the  case  with  the  manna, 
but  that  which  dwelleth  eternally  with  fire.* 
Let  us  then  "subdue  all  things,"  that  we  furnish 
not  food  to  this  worm.  For  "he,"  it  is  said, 
"  who  gathered  much  had  nothing  over."  For 
this  too  happens  with  ourselves  also  every  day. 
We  all  of  us  have  but  the  same  capacity  of  hun- 
ger to  satisfy.  And  that  which  is  more  than 
this,  is  but  an  addition  of  cares.  For  what  He 
intended  in  after-times  to  deliver,  saying,  "  Suffi- 
cient unto  the  day  is  the  evil  thereof"  (Matt. 
vi,  34),  this  had  He  thus  been  teaching  even 
from  the  very  beginning;1  and  not  even  thus  did 
they  receive  it.  But  as  to  us,  let  us  not  be 
insatiable,  let  us  not  be  discontented,  let  us  not 
be  seeking  out  for  splendid  houses  ;  for  we  are 
on  our  pilgrimage,  not  at  home  ;  so  that  if  there 
be  any  that  knows  that  the  present  life  is  a  sort 
of  journey,  and  expedition,  and,  as  one  might 
say,  it  is  what  they  call  an  entrenched  camp,* 
he  will  not  be  seeking  for  splendid  buildings. 
For  who,  tell  me,  be  he  ever  so  rich,  would 
choose  to  build  a  splendid  house  in  an  encamp- 
ment? No  one  ;  he  would  be  a  laughing  stock, 
he  would  be  building  for  his  enemies,  and  would 
the  more  effectually  invite  them  on ;  and  so 
then,  if  we  be  in  our  senses,  neither  shall  we. 
The  present  life  is  nothing  else  than  a  march 
and  an  encampment. 

Wherefore,  I  beseech  you,  let  us  do  all  we 
can,  so  as  to  lay  up  no  treasure  here  ;  for  if  the 
thief  should  come,  we  must  in  a  moment  arise 
and  depart.  "  Watch,"  saith  He,  "  for  ye  know 
not  at  what  hour  the  thief  cometh  "  (Matt.  xxiv. 
42,  43),  thus  naming  death,  O  then,  before  he 
cometh,  let  us  send  away  everything  before  us- 
to  our  native  country ;  but  here  let  us  be  "  well 
girded,"  that  we  may  be  enabled  to  overcome 
our  enemies,  whom  God  grant  that  we  may 
overcome,  through  the  grace  and  lovingkind- 
ness  of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  with  Whom  to- 
gether with  the  Holy  Ghost,  be  unto  the  Father 
gtoty,  strength]  honor  forever  and  ever.     Amen. 


1  [Th«  1 


:„.;,,£  ...,;„«. 


lOT 


&£.,  "\u<  lbs 

MS . ,'  lOrf  cm™ 3*  evenlhit!  — G.  A.] 


MSS.  have 

»7"" "Thiit  other  M5S.  ii«  the 

aijapre,]:    "No  longer  the  ciririly   u..r,n 
•- iilly  with  fire,"  oAA1  i  t»  .« 


,t  ("the. 


U.ll.tt,    f 


'«".■?« 


Homily  XXIV.]  HOMILIES    ON    EPHESIANS.  167 


HOMILY    XXIV. 

Ephesians  vi.  14-17. 

•  Stand  therefore,  having  girded  your  loins  with  truth,  he  shows  us  that  this  conflict  with  the  evil  spirits 

^S^^^'^u^  righteousness;  we   must   needs   ^  for    the  j   fa   „  A 

and  having  shod  your  feet  with  the  preparation  of  \      r  »       Ai_-  l-  t  i 

the  gospel  of  peace;  withal  taking  up  the  shield  of  gosPel    of    Peace     '>    *»    ***    whlch    we    have 

faith,  wherewith  ye  shall  be  able  to  quench  all  the  against  them,  puts  an  end  to  another  war,  that, 

fiery  darts  of  the  evil  one.    And  take  the  helmet  of  namely,  which   is  between  US  and   God ;  if  we 

w^tio°fGod^thC  SW°rd  °f  thC  Spiritf  WhiCh  "  thC  arC  at  War  ^^  the  devil'  WC  afe  at  peaCe  *** 

God.      Fear  not  therefore,  beloved;    it  is  a 

"Having  girded  your  loins,"  saith  he,  "with  ■-*»5fpeV' that  is'  a  word  of&ood  ncws>  already 

truth."    What  can  be  the  meaning  of  this?    I  ,s  .w^,?.™11'      >u     u-  ij    <■<■  -.u  » 
have  stated  in  the  preceding  discourse,  that  he       «W,^.t£mf, "P  l,he  slVeld  of  fa,th-" .        , 
ought  to  be  lightly  akoutered,  in  order  that  there     ^  "  !ai*    ™ thls  P15"*' h*  meanS' n0t  >?°?\' 

shSuld  be  no  impediment  whatever  to  his  run-  f  dfi.(ffr  l.hat  >*  neTerkwould  have  ranged  ""O 

ni-ncy  r  but  that  gift  by  which  miracles  are  wrought.8 

*T*w#j  uou:n„  rt„  »»  u^  ™„«^1W^  ii*^  u—n~4.  And  with   reason  does  he  term  this  "  '  faith '  a 
'  Ana  having  on,    ne  continues,     the  breast-     .  .  , ,  „      r  .,       ,.  ,,   .         t  ,    r       A, 

plate  of  righteousness."    As  the  breastplate  is  sh'e  d    *    for  "  <he  shie,d  »  Pfut  ^  .th* 

impenetrable,  so  also  is  righteousness,  and  by  wholet  *><*/>  **  •'  •»  we.*  *>«  of  rampart,  just 

«i^.«,^,  k-.^  u^  «™«~  «  i:r~     r  .  •         i  so  is  this  faith  :  for  all  things  yield  to  it. 
righteousness  here  he  means  a  life  of  universal       „  wherewith  ve  shall  he  able  "  saith  he  "  tn 
virtue.1    Such  a  life  no  one  shall  ever  be  able  ,rT£    /     Ti     Au    '    -i         »* 

♦,>  ™«»^k^w  .  ;♦  ;e  ♦_.,.>  «,„„„  ,.~ ^  u.\«   u  *  quench  all  the  fiery  darts  of  the  evil  one. " 

to  overthrow  :  it  is  true,  many  wound  him,  but  n  ^     .,  .     ,  .  ■ ,   J  .,  .       ,    „  ,       , ,    ^ 

no  one  cuts  through  him  no,  not  the  devil  him-  ,  ^or  *»  ^l™?^     i^  aJ£  ?  r<TSf ; 

self.    It  is  as  though  one  were  to  say,  «  having  f°r,hea*en  *>  w£rt  Chnst  saith  to  His  disciples, 

righteous  deeds  fixed  in  the  breast »    of  thesl      If  ?*»*  *"*  "  a  8""1. of  ™ustard  kseed> 

it  is  that  Christ  saith,  »  Blessed  are  they  that  f  sha"  ^  .unto  th,s,  •«»?«"'».  Remov,f  »"-nce 

hunger  and  thirst  after  righteousness;  for  they  t0.y°nder  P^ace>  and  *  sha"  reraove:".  (Matt, 

shall  be  filled."    (Matt.  v.  6.)     Thus  is  he  finn  ™l"  2°>     Buut  how.  ™?  We  !?  havf  th,f  ^|th? 

and  strong  like  a  breastplate.    Such  a  man  will  \Vhen    we    have    n«htly  Perf<"™ed  all    those 
never  be  put  out  of  temper.  .7  „'   „.       .  _*     f  t.         •■  „  . 

"And  having  shod  your  feet  with  the  prepara-       "B/  the  darts  of  the  evil  one,     he  means 

uon  of  the  gos^l  of  peace."     It  is  more  uncer-  f0*  ^mptations,  and  vile  desires ;  and  "  fiery," 

tam ;«%  -j**?^***  fkio  ™~,*  ~»ia      \\Tun+  «.u^^  •  he  says,  for  such  is  the  character  of  these  de- 
tain in  what  sense  this  was  said.     What  then  is  J  lT  ^  -r  c  -*i_  j  ^i_        -i        •. 

ftr  n%^«;«^>    Thflw  o-«  ™ki<*  ««»«.^«.  a^„k*i«-,«  sires»     *et  "  »aitn  can  command  the  evil  spmts, 
ns  meaning  ^    1  hey  are  noble  greaves,  doubtless.  ,  ..    ,     A,  -4,.  r    ,  ' 

with^hich  he  invests  us.     Either  then  he  means  m^  T?^k     if.     ,  KT10118  °5       "f  c 
this,  that  we  should  be  prepared  for  the  gospel,      .   ^nd  ,^e  ,^e  )elmet>    ^  continues    "  of 

and  should  make  use  of  our  feet  for  this,  and  salvatl0°.    th.at  1S.  of  y°ur  Nation.    For  he  is 

should  prepare  and  make  ready  its  way  before  ca!)nAg  T;m  m  arm,° r-  .  ,.,.., 

it;'  or  if  not  this,  at  least  that  we  ourselves       "And  *e  ™°Tt°{  5?  Spmt'  which  ?  .*v* 

Aoold  be  prepared  for  our  departure.     "The  word  o{u{, ^  .  ."*  e.ther  means  the  Spin 

preparation,"  Aen,  "of  the  gospel  of  peace,"  is  %.       '  SP"Tk  STd    .=  £'    X  *"  /f 

nothtog  el^  than  a  most  virtuous  life;  accord-  th,nKs  arf  se^red'  ^  ,th,s  aU  thinf  are  clt,ft 

Sgtowhat  the  Prophet  saith.    "Thou  wilt  pre-  ?simder'  b^  th,s  we  cut  off  even  the  serPent  s 
pare  their  heart,  thou  wilt  cause  thine  ear  to     ea7  *      0  tl „,,,      „  , 

hear."    (Ps.  x.  17.)    « Of  the  gospel,"  he  says,     , .V"-  l*;  ^°'       With  all  prayer  and  sup- 

-of  peace,"  and  with  reason;  for  inasmuch  a^  P^on,' saith  he"  praying  at  all  seasons  ,n 

hehadmade  mention  of  warfare  and  fighting,  the  SPmt-  and  watchm«  ^"^  ,nal  perse; 
&       &>  verance  and  supplication  for  all  the  saints ;  and 

lJH<iu^teotijaen'h(»eU  Christian  moral  rectitude  (Rom.  vi.  on  my  behalf  that  utterance  may  be  given  unto 

WiMMMch  as,  justified  fay  faith,  we  are  dead  to  sin  and  live  in  '  J  ° 


■nmj  **,  justified  fay  faith,  we  are  dead  to  sin  and  live  m  .  i_    .  »       i  • .  i 

of  Hfc(Rom.vi.4).   As  previously  the  •  intellectual » recti-  me,  m  opening  my  mouth  to  make  known  With 

JS^1^ S^Ss^^-^m ote5. — g^a.i"*'  *°  herc  hU ' moral '  boldness  the  mystery  of  the  gospel,  for  which 

'  ["This  means  *  readiness,   the  ready  mind;  not,  however,  for 


■b  pnaamation  of  die  gospel,  as  Chrysostom  and  others,  —  since  in  s  [This  interpretation  does  not  suit  the  context.     "  Faith  is  here 

>    ■**  Eml  a  addressing  fellow-Christians,  and  not  fellow-teachers,  —  savins  faith,  bringing  assurance  of  forgiveness  and  future  blessed- 

g*d*e  readiness  for  the  conflict  in  question  which  the  gospel  be-  ncss.'  — Meyer.  —  G.  A.J 

■***.  And  it  is  the  gospel  of  peace,  for  the  gospel  proclaims  peace         4  [It  simply  means  the  sword  which  "  is  furnished  fay  the  Holy 

(M»m.r.i;  Ph0.  L  so),  and  thereby  produces  consecration  of  coura-  Spirit,"  and  this  sword,  as  the  apostle  himself  declares,  is  the  word 

Pmb  '  readiness '  for  the  conflict  (Rom.  viii.  31,  38,  39)."— Meyer,  of  God,  the  gospel,  which  the  Holy  Spirit  brings  vividly  to  the  con- 

—C  A. J  sciousness  of  the  Christian.  —  Meyer  and  EUicott.  —  G.  A.] 


1 68 


WORKS   OF   ST.    CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  XXIV. 


I  am  an  ambassador  in  chains,  that  in  it  I  may 
speak  boldly,  as  I  ought  to  speak." 

As  the  word  of  God  has  power  to  do  all  things, 
so  also  has  he  who  has  the  spiritual  gift.  "  For 
the  word  of  God,"  saith  he,  "is  living,  and 
active  and  sharper  than  any  two-edged  sword." 
(Heb.  iv.  12.)  Now  mark  the  wisdom  of  this 
blessed  Apostle.  He  hath  armed  them  with  all 
security.  What  then  is  necessary  after  that? 
To  call  upon  the  King,  that  He  may  stretch 
forth  His  hand.  "  With  all  prayer,  and  suppli- 
cation, praying  at  all  seasons  in  the  Spirit "  ; 
for  it  is  possible  "  to  pray  "  not  "  in  the  Spirit," 
when  one  "  uses  vain  repetitions  "  (Matt.  vi.  7)  ; 
"and  watching  thereunto,"  he  adds,  that  is, 
keeping  sober ;  for  such*  ought  the  armed  war- 
rior, he  that  stands  at  the  King's  side,  to  be ; 
wakeful  and  temperate  : «—  "  in  all  perseverance 
and  supplication  for  all  the  saints ;  and  on  my 
behalf  that  utterance  may  be  given  unto  me  in 
opening  my  mouth."  What  sayest  thou,  blessed 
Paul?  Hast  thou,  then,  need  of  thy  disciples? 
And  well  does  he  say,  "  in  opening  my  mouth." 
He  did  not  then  study  what  he  used  to  say,  but 
according  to  what  Christ  said,  "  When  they  de- 
liver you  up,  be  not  anxious  how  or  what  ye 
shall  speak  :  for  it  shall  be  given  you  in  that  hour 
what  ye  shall  speak"  (Matt.  x.  19)  :  so  truly  did 
he  do  everything  by  faith,  everything  by  grace. 
"With  boldness,"  he  proceeds,  "  to  make  known 
the  mystery  of  the  Gospel "  ;  that  is,  that  I  may- 
answer  for  myself  in  its  defense,  as  I  ought. 
And  art  thou  bound  in  thy  chain,  and  still  need- 
est  the  aid  of  others  ?  Yea,  saith  he,  for  so  was 
Peter  also  bound  in  his  chain,  and  yet  neverthe- 
less "  was  prayer  made  earnestly  for  him."  (Acts 
xii.  5.)  "For  which  I  am  an  ambassador  in 
chains,  that  in  it  I  may  speak  boldly,  as  I  ought 
to  speak  "  ;  that  is,  that  I  may  answer  with  con- 
fidence, with  courage,  with  great  prudence. 

Ver.  21.  "But  that  ye  also1  may  know  my 
affairs,  how  I  do,  Tychicus,  the  beloved  brother 
and  faithful  minister  in  the  Lord,  shall  make 
known  to  you  ail  things." 

As  soon  as  he  had  mentioned  his  chains,  he 
leaves  something  for  Tychicus  also  to  relate  to 
them  of  his  own  accord.  For  whatever  topics 
there  were  of  doctrine  and  of  exhortation,  all 
these  he  explained  by  his  letter :  but  what  were 
matters  of  bare  recital,  these  he  entrusted  to 
the  bearer  of  the  letter.  "  That  ye  may  know 
my  affairs,"  that  is,  may  be  informed  of  them. 
This  manifests  both  the  love  which  he  enter- 
tained towards  them,  and  their  love  towards  him. 

Ver.  22.  "Whom  I  have  sent  unto  you," 
saith  he, "  for  this  very  purpose,  that  ye  may  know 
our  state,  and  that  he  may  comfort  your  hearts." 

1  ["  Ye  also,"  as  well  as  the  Colossians  (Col.  iv.  8,  q).  Meyer's 
Introd.  sec.  a.  The  «at,  on  supposition  of  priority  of  Colossians, 
admits  of  an  easy  and  natural  explanation.  —  Ellicott.  —  G.  A.J 


This  language  he  employs,  not  without  a  pur- 
pose, but  in  consequence  of  what  he  had  been 
saying  previously;  "having  girded  your  loins, 
having  on  the  breastplate,"  &c,  which  are  a 
token  of  a  constant  and  unceasing  advance  ;  for 
hear  what  the  Prophet  saith, "  Let  it  be  unto  him 
as  the  raiment  wherewith  he  covereth  himself, 
and  for  the  girdle  wherewith  he  is  girded  con- 
tinually" (Ps.  cix.  19) ;  and  the  Prophet  Isaiah 
again  saith,  that  God  hath  "  put  on  righteousness 
as  a  breastplate"  (Isa.  lix.  17)  ;  by  these  ex- 
pressions instructing  us  that  these  are  things 
which  we  must  have,  not  for  a  short  time  only, 
but  continually,  inasmuch  as  there  is  continual 
need  of  warfare.  "  For  it  is  said  the  righteous 
are  bold  as  a  lion."  (Prov.  xxviii.  1.)  For  he 
that  is  armed  with  such  a  breastplate,  it  cannot 
be  that  he  should  fear  the  array  that  is  against 
him,  but  he  will  leap  into  the  midst  of  the 
enemy.  And  again  Isaiah  saith,  "  How  beauti- 
ful are  the  feet  of  him  that  bringeth  good  tid- 
ings." (Isa.  Hi.  7.)  Who  would  not  run,  who 
would  not  serve  in  such  a  cause  ;  to  publish  the 
good  tidings  of  peace,  peace  between  God  and 
man,  peace,  where  men  have  toiled  not,  but 
where  God  hath  wrought  all? 

But  what  is  the  "  preparation  of  the  Gospel "  ?  * 
Let  us  hearken  to  what  John  saith,  "  Make  ye 
ready  the  way  of  the  Lord,  make  His  paths 
straight."  (Matt  iii.  3.)  But  again  there  is 
need  also  of  another  "  preparation  "  after  bap- 
tism, so  that  we  may  do  nothing  unworthy  of 
"  peace."  And  then,  since  the  feet  are  usually  a 
token  of  the  way  of  life,  hence  he  is  constantly 
exhorting  in  this  language,  "  Look,  therefore, 
carefully  how  ye  walk."  (Eph.  v.  15.)  On  this 
account,  he  would  say,  let  us  exhibit  a  practice 
and  example  worthy  of  the  Gospel;  that  is, 
make  our  life  and  conduct  pure.  The  good 
tidings  of  peace  have  been  proclaimed  to  you, 
give  to  these  good  tidings  a  ready  way ;  since 
if  ye  again  become  enemies,  there  is  no  more 
"  preparation  of  peace."  Be  ready,  be  not  back- 
ward to  embrace  this  peace.  As  ye  were  ready 
and  disposed  for  peace  and  faith,  so  also  con- 
tinue. The  shield  is  that  which  first  receives 
the  assaults  of  the  adversary,  and  preserves  the 
armor  uninjured.  So  long  then  as  faith  be  right 
and  the  life  be  right,  the  armor  remains  un- 
injured. 

He  discourses,  however,  much  concerning 
faith,  but  most  especially  in  writing  to  the 
Hebrews,  as  he  does  also  concerning  hope. 
Believe,  saith  he,  in  the  good  things  to  come, 
and  none  of  this  armor  shall  be  injured.  In 
dangers,  in  toils,  by  holding  out  thy  hope  and 
thy  faith  to  protect  thee,  thou  wilt  preserve  thy 
armor  uninjured.      "  He   that  cometh  to  God 

3  [After  having  treated  this  part  of  the  chapter,  our  author  now 
returns  to  it,  and  supplements  what  he  has  already  said.  —  G.  A.] 


Homily  XXIV.] 


HOMILIES   ON    EPHESIANS. 


169 


must  believe  that  He  is,  and  that  He  is  a  re- 
warder  of  them  that  seek  after  Him."  (Heb. 
xi.  6. )  Faith  is  a  shield ;  but  wherever  there  are 
quibbles,  and  reasonings,  and  scrutinizings,  then 
is  it  no  longer  a  shield,  but  it  impedes  us.  Let 
this  our  faith  be  such  as  shall  cover  and  screen 
the  whole  frame.  Let  it  not  then  be  scanty,  so 
as  to  leave  the  feet  or  any  other  part  exposed, 
but  let  the  shield  be  commensurate  with  the 
whole  body. 

"Fiery1  darts."    For  many  doubtful  reason- 
ings there  are,  which  set  the  soul,  as  it  were,  on 
fire,  many  difficulties,  many  perplexities,  but  all 
of  them  faith  sets  entirely  at  rest ;  many  things 
does  the  devil  dart  in,  to  inflame  our  soul  and 
bring  us  into  uncertainty ;  as,  for  example,  when 
some  persons  say,  "  Is  there  then  a  resurrec- 
tion?"   "Is  there  a  judgment?"    "Is  there  a 
retribution?"  "But  is  there  faith?"  the  apostle 
would  say,  "  thou  shalt  with  it  quench  the  darts 
of  the  devil.     Has  any  base  lust  assaulted  thee  ? 
Hold  before  thee  thy  faith  in  the  good  things 
to  come,  and    it    will  not  even   show   itself, 
yea,  it  will  perish."    "  All  the  darts  "  ;  not  some 
quenched,  and  others  not.     Hearken  to  what 
Paul  saith,  "  For  I  reckon  that  the  sufferings  of 
this  present  time  are  not  worthy  to  be  compared 
with  the  glory  that  shall  be  revealed  to  us-ward." 
(Rom.  viii.  18.)     Seest  thou  how  many  darts 
the  righteous  quenched  in  those  days  ?  Seemeth 
it  not  to  thee  to  be  "fiery  darts,"  when  the 
patriarch  burned  with   inward  fire,  as  he  was 
offering  up    his    son?    Yea,  and   other   right- 
eous men  also  have  quenched  "  all  his  darts." 
Whether  then   they  be   reasonings  that  assault 
us,  let  us  hold  out  this ;   or  whether  they  be 
base  desires,  let  us  use  this ;  or  whether  again 
labors  and  distresses,  upon  this  let  us  repose. 
Of  all  the  other  armor,  this  is  the  safeguard ; 
if  we  have  not  this,  they  will  be  quickly  pierced 
through.    "Withal,"  saith   he,  "taking  up  the 
shield  of   faith."     What    is    the    meaning   of 
"withal"?   It  means  both  "in  truth,"  and  "in 
righteousness,"  and  "  in  the  preparation  of  the 
gospel " ;  that  is  to  say,  all  these  have  need  of 
the  aid  of  faith. 

And  therefore  he  adds  further,  "  and  take  the 
helmet  of  salvation  " ;  that  is  to  say,  finally  by 
this  shall  ye  be  able  to  be  in  security.  To  re- 
ceive the  helmet  of  salvation  is  to  escape  the 
peril.  For  as  the  helmet  covers  the  head  per- 
fectly in  every  part,  and  suffers  it  not  to  sustain 
My  injury,  but  preserves  it,  so  also  does  faith 
supply  alike  the  place  of  a  shield,  and  of  a  hel- 
met2 to  preserve  us.     For  if  we   quench   his 

a"  The  aim  of  this  predicate  is  to  present  in  strong  colors  the 
and  destructive  character  of  the  Satanic  assaults;  but  more 
•pecial  explanations  of  its  import  are  inappropriate."  —  Meyer. — 
G.A.] 

1  [raith  is  not  the  helmet.  Chrysostom's  exegesis  of  the  parts 
of  the  armor  is  not  clear.  Salvation  is  the  helmet;  for  tow  othtimhov 
u*  feoiaVe  of  apposition.    Receive  the  helmet,  which  is  salvation. 


darts,  quickly  shall  we  receive  also  those  saving 
thoughts  that  suffer  not  our  governing  principle3 
to  sustain  any  harm ;  for  if  these,  the  thoughts 
that  are  adverse  to  our  salvation,  are  quenched, 
those  which  are  not  so,  but  which  contribute  to 
our  salvation,  and  inspire  us  with  good  hopes, 
will  be  generated  within  us,  and  will  rest  upon 
our  governing  principle,  as  a  helmet  does  upon 
the  head. 

And  not  only  this,  but  we  shall  take  also  "  the 
sword  of  the  Spirit,"  and  thus  not  only  ward  off 
his  missiles,  but  smite  the  devil  himself.  For  a 
soul  that  does  not  despair  of  herself,  and  is 
proof  against  those  fiery  darts,  will  stand  with 
all  intrepidity  to  face  the  enemy,  and  will  cleave 
open  his  breastplate  with  this  very  sword  with 
which  Paul  also  burst  through  it,  and  "  brought 
into  captivity  his  devices"  (2  Cor.  x.  5)  ;  he 
will  cut  off  and  behead  the  serpent. 

"  Which  is  the  word  of  God." 

By  the  "  word  of  God  "  in  this  place,  he 
means  on  the  one  hand  the  ordinance  of  God, 
or  the  word  of  command  ;  or  on  the  other  that 
it  is  in  the  Name  of  Christ.  For  if  we  keep  his 
commandments,  by  these  we  shall  kill  and  slay 
the  dragon  himself,  "the  crooked  serpent."  (Isa. 
xxvii.  1.)  And. as  he  said,  "Ye  shall  be  able  to 
quench  the  fiery  darts  of  the  evil  one  "  ;  that  he 
might  not  puff  them  up,  he  shows  them,  that 
above  all  things  they  stand  in  need  of  God  ;  for 
what  does  he  say? 

"With  all  prayer  and  supplication,"  he  says, 
these  things  shall  be  done,  and  ye  shall  accom- 
plish all  by  praying.  But  when  thou  drawest 
near,  never  ask  for  thyself  only :  thus  shalt  thou 
have  God  favorable  to  thee. 

"  With  all  prayer  and  supplication,  praying  at 
all  seasons  in  the  Spirit,  and  watching  thereunto 
in  all  perseverance  for  all  the  saints."  Limit  it 
not,  I  say,  to  certain  times  of  the  day,  for  hear 
what  he  is  saying ;  approach  at  all  times ;  "  pray," 
saith  he,  "without  ceasing."  (1  Thess.  v.  17.) 
Hast  thou  never  heard  of  that  widow,  how  by 
her  importunity  she  prevailed  ?  (Luke  xviii.  1-7.) 
Hast  thou  never  heard  of  that  friend,  who  at 
midnight  shamed  his  friend  into  yielding  by  his 
perseverance?  (Luke  xi.  5-8.)  Hast  thou  not 
heard  of  the  Syrophcenician  woman  (Mark  vii. 
25-30),  how  by  the  constancy  of  her  entreaty 
she  called  forth  the  Lord's  compassion?  These 
all  of  them  gained  their  object  by  their  impor- 
tunity. 

"  Praying  at  all  seasons,"  saith  he,  "  in  the 
Spirit." 

That  is  to  say,  let  us  seek  for  the  things  which 
are  according  to  God,  nothing  of  this  world, 
nothing  pertaining  to  this  life. 

"  This  salvation,"  says  Ellicott,  "  is  not  any  ideal  possession,  as 
Meyer  holds.  Salvation  in  Christ  forms  the  subject  of  faith;  in  faith 
it  is  apprehended,  and  becomes  in  a  certain  sense  a  present  pos- 
session. '  — G.  A.J  *  t6  iiy*fiovuc6v. 


170 


WORKS   OF   ST.    CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  XXIV. 


a 


Therefore,  is  there  need  not  only  that  we 
pray  without  ceasing,"  but  also,  that  we  should 
do  so  "watching;  —  and  watching,"  saith  he, 
"thereunto."  Whether  he  is  here  speaking  of 
vigils ;  *  or  of  the  wakefulness  of  the  soul,  I 
admit  both  meanings.  Seest  thou  how  that 
Canaanitish  woman  watched  unto  prayer?  and 
though  the  Lord  gave  her  no  answer,  nay,  even 
shook  her  off,  and  called  her  a  dog,  she  said, 
"  Yea,  Lord :  for  even  the  dogs  eat  of  the 
crumbs  which  fall  from  their  masters'  table  " 
(Matt.  xv.  27),  and  desisted  not  until  she  ob- 
tained her  request.  How,  too,  did  that  widow 
cry,  and  persist  so  long,  until  she  was  able  to 
shame  into  yielding  that  ruler,  that  neither  feared 
God,  nor  regarded  man  (Luke  xviii.  1-7)?  And 
how,  again,  did  the  friend  persist,  remaining  be- 
fore the  door  in  the  dead  of  night,  till  he  shamed 
the  other  into  yielding  by  his  importunity,  and 
made  him  arise.  (Luke  xi.  5-8.)  This  is  to  be 
watchful. 

Wouldest  thou  understand  what  watchfulness 
in  prayer  is?  Go  to  Hannah,  hearken  to  her 
very  words,  "  Adonai  Eloi  Sabaoth."  (1  Sam.  i. 
11.)  Nay,  rather,  hear  what  preceded  those 
words;  "they  all  rose  up,"  says  the  history, 
"  from  the  table  "  (1  Sam.  i.  9),  and  she,  forth- 
with, did  not  betake  herself  to  sleep,  nor  to  re- 
pose. Whence  she  appears  to  me  even  when 
she  was  sitting  at  the  table  to  have  partaken 
lightly,  and  not  to  have  been  made  heavy  with 
viands.  Otherwise  never  could  she  have  shed 
so  many  tears ;  for  if  we,  when  we  are  fasting 
and  foodless,  hardly  pray  thus,  or  rather  never 
pray  thus,  much  more  would  not  she  ever  have 
prayed  thus  after  a  meal,  unless  even  at  the 
meal  she  had  been  as  they  that  eat  not.  Let  us 
be  ashamed,  us  that  are  men,  at  the  example  of 
this  woman ;  let  us  be  ashamed,  that  are  suing 
and  gasping  for  a  kingdom,  at  her,  praying  and 
weeping  for  a  little  child.  "  And  she  stood,"  it 
says,  "before  the  Lord"  (1  Sam.  i.  10);  and 
what  are  her  words?  "Adonai,  Lord,  Eloi 
Sabaoth  ! "  and  this  is,  being  interpreted,  "  O 
Lord,  the  God  of  Hosts."  Her  tears  went  be- 
fore her  tongue ;  by  these  she  hoped  to  prevail 
with  God  to  bend  to  her  request.  Where  tears 
are,  there  is  always  affliction  also  :  where  afflic- 
tion is,  there  is  great  wisdom  and  heedfulness. 
"  If  thou  wilt  indeed,"  she  continues,  "  look  on 
the  affliction  of  thine  handmaid,  and  wilt  give 
unto  thine  handmaid  a  man  chUd,  then  will  I 
give  him  unto  the  Lord  all  the  days  of  his  life." 
(1  Sam.  i.  11.)  She  said  not,  "for  one  year," 
or,  "  for  two,"  as  we  do ;  —  nor  said  she, "  if  thou 
wilt  give  me  a  child,  I  will  give  thee  money  "  ; 
but,  "  I  give  back  to  Thee  the  very  gift  itself  en- 

1  wavwxi&<**.  St.  Chrysostom  often  speaks  of  vigils,  which  were 
Church  Services  extending  past  midnight  into  the  morning;  vid. 
Horn,  in  Esau  i.  x,  iv.  x,  etc.;  vid.  Bingham,  Antiqu.  xiii.  9,  §  4. 


tire,  my  first-born,  the  son  of  my  prayer."  Truly 
here  was  a  daughter  of  Abraham.  He  gave  when 
it  was  demanded  of  him.  She  offers  even  be- 
fore it  is  demanded. 

But  observe  even  after  this  her  deep  rever- 
ence. "  Only  her  lips  moved,  but  her  voice,"  it 
saith,  "was  not  heard."  (i  Sam.  i.  13.)  And 
thus  does  he  who  would  gain  his  request  draw 
nigh  unto  God;  not  consulting  his  ease,  nor 
gaping,  nor  lounging,  nor  scratching  his  head, 
nor  with  utter  listlessness.  What,  was  not  God 
able  to  grant,  even  without  any  prayer  at  all? 
What,  did  He  not  know  the  woman's  desire 
even  before  she  asked?  And  yet  had  He 
granted  it  before  she  asked,  then  the  woman's 
earnestness  would  not  have  been  shown,  her 
virtue  would  not  have  been  made  manifest,  she 
would  not  have  gained  so  great  a  reward.  So 
that  the  delay  is  not  the  result  of  envy  or  of  witch- 
craft, but  of  providential  kindness.  When  there- 
fore ye  hear  the  Scripture  saying,  that  "the 
Lord  had  shut  up  her  womb  "  (ver.  5,  6),  and 
that,  "  her  rival  provoked  her  sore  "  ;  consider 
that  it  is  His  intention  to  prove  the  woman's 
seriousness.2  For,  mark,  she  had  a  husband 
devoted  to  her,  for  he  said  (ver.  8),  "  Am  I  not 
better  to  thee  than  ten  sons?"  "And  her  rival," 
it  saith, "  provoked  her  sore,"  that  is,  reproached 
her,  insulted  over  her.  And  yet  did  she  never 
once  retaliate,  nor  utter  imprecation  against  her, 
nor  say,  "  Avenge  me,  for  my  rival  reviles  me." 
The  other  had  children,  but  this  woman  had  her 
husband's  love  to  make  amends.  With  this  at 
least  he  even  consoled  her,  saying,  "  Am  not  I 
better  to  thee  than  ten  sons? " 

But  let  us  look,  again,  at  the  deep  wisdom  of 
this  woman.  "  And  Eli,"  it  says,  "  thought  she 
had  been  drunken."  (Ver.  13.)  Yet  observe 
what  she  says  to  him  also, "  Nay,  count  not  thine 
handmaid  for  a  daughter  of  Belial,  for  out  of 
the  abundance  of  my  complaint  and  my  provo- 
cation have  I  spoken  hitherto."  (Ver.  16.) 
Here  is  truly  the  proof  of  a  contrite  heart,  when 
we  are  not  angry  with  those  that  revile  us,  when 
we  are  not  indignant  against  them,  when  we 
reply  but  in  self-defense.  Nothing  renders  the 
heart  so  wise  as  affliction ;  nothing  is  there  so 
sweet  as  "godly  mourning."  (2  Cor.  vii.  10.) 
"Out  of  the  abundance,"  saith  she,  "of  my 
complaint  and  my  provocation  have  I  spoken 
hitherto."  Her  let  us  imitate,  one  and  all. 
Hearken,  ye  that  are  barren,  hearken,  ye  that 
desire  children,  hearken,  both  husbands  and 
wives ;  yes,  for  husbands,  too,  used  oftentimes  to 
contribute  their  part ;  for  hear  what  the  Scrip- 
ture saith,  "  And  Isaac  intreated  the  Lord  for 
Rebekah  his  wife,  because  she  was  barren." 
(Gen.  xxv.  21.)  For  prayer  is  able  to  accom- 
plish great  things. 

-■  ■  ■  ■ —   ■        —  -  -    -    -  *         -1 

*  ^tAcxro^ULF. 


Homily  XXIV.] 


HOMILIES   ON   EPHESIANS. 


171 


"  With  all  prayer  and  supplication,"  saith  he, 
"  for  all  the  saints,  and  for  me,"  placing  himself 
last.  What  doest  thou,  O  blessed  Paul,  in  thus 
placing  thyself  last?  Yea,  saith  he,  "  that  utter- 
ance may  be  given  unto  me,  in  opening  my 
mouth,  to  make  known  with  boldness  the  mys- 
tery of  the  gospel,  for  which  I  am  an  ambas- 
sador in  chains."  And  where  art  thou  an 
ambassador?  "To  mankind,"  saith  he.  Oh! 
amazing  lovingkindness  of  God  !  He  sent  from 
Heaven  in  His  own  Name  ambassadors  for 
peace,  and  lo,  men  took  them,  and  bound  them, 
and  reverenced  not  so  much  as  the  law  of 
nations,  that  an  ambassador  never  suffers  any 
hurt.  "But,  however,  I  am  an  ambassador  in 
bonds.  The  chain  lies  like  a  bridle  upon  me, 
restraining  my  boldness,  but  your  prayer  shall 
open  my  mouth  "  in  order  that  I  may  speak  all 
things  I  was  sent  to  speak. 

u  But  that  ye  also  may  know  my  affairs,  how 
I  do;  Tychicus,  the  beloved  brother,  and  faithful 
minister  in  the  Lord,  shall  make  known  to  you 
all  things."  If  "  faithful,"  he  will  tell  no  false- 
hood, he  will  in  everything  speak  the  truth  :  — 
"whom  I  have  sent  unto  you  for  this  very  pur- 
pose, that  ye  might  know  our  state,  and  that  he 
may  comfort  your  hearts."  Amazing,  transcend- 
ent affection  !  "  that  it  may  not  be  in  the  power," 
he  means,  "of  them  that  would,  to  affright  you." 
For  it  is  probable  that  they  were  in  tribulation ; 
for  the  expression,  "  may  comfort  your  hearts," 
intimates  as  much ;  that  is,  "  may  not  suffer  you 
to  sink  under  it." 

Ver.  23.  "  Peace  be  to  the  brethren,  and  love 
with  faith  from  God  the  Father,  and  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ." 

He  invokes  upon  them,  "  peace  and  love  with 
faith."  He  saith  well :  for  he  would  not  that 
they  should  have  regard  to  love  by  itself,  and 
mingle  themselves  with  those  of  a  different  faith. 
Either  he  means  this,  or  that  above  described, 
namely,  that  they  should  have  faith  also,  so  as 
to  have  a  chee/ful  confidence  of  the  good  things 
to  come.  The  "  peace  "  which  is  towards  God, 
and  the  "  love."  And  if  there  be  peace,  there 
will  also  be  love ;  if  love,  there  will  be  peace 
also.  "With  faith,"  because  without  faith,  love 
amounts  to  nothing;  or  rather  love  could  not 
exist  at  all  without  it. 

Ver.  24.  "  Grace  be  with  all  them  that  love 
our  Lord  Jesus  Christ  in  uncorruptness." 

Why  does  he  separate  the  two  here,  placing 
"  peace  "  by  itself,  and  "  grace  "  by  itself? 
"  In  uncorruptness,"  he  concludes. 
What  is  this,  "  in  uncorruptness  "  ?  It  either 
means,  "  in  purity  "  ;  or  else,  "  for  the  sake  of 
those  things  which  are  incorruptible,"  as,  for 
example,  not  in  riches,  nor  in  glory,  but  in  those 
treasures  which  are  incorruptible.  The  "  in  " 
naeans, " through."    "Through  uncorruptness," 


that  is,  "through  virtue."1  Because  all  sin 
is  corruption.  And  in  the  same  way  as  we 
say  a  virgin  is  corrupted,  so  also  do  we 
speak  of  the  soul.  Hence  Paul  says,  "  Lest  by 
any  means  your  minds  should  be  corrupted." 
(2  Cor.  xi.  3.)  And  again  elsewhere,  he  says, 
"In  doctrine,  showing  uncorruptness."2  For 
what,  tell  me,  is  corruption  of  the  body?  Is 
it  not  the  dissolution  of  the  whole  frame,  and 
of  its  union  ?  This  then  is  what  takes  place  also 
in  the  soul  when  sin  enters.  The  beauty  of 
the  soul  is  temperance,  and  righteousness ;  the 
health  of  the  soul  is  courage,  and  prudence ; 
for  the  base  man  is  hideous  in  our  eyes,  so  is 
the  covetous,  so  is  the  man  who  gives  himself 
up  to  evil  practices,  and  so  the  coward  and  un- 
manly man  is  sick,  and  the  foolish  man  is  out 
of  health.  Now  that  sins  work  corruption,  is 
evident  from  this,  that  they  render  men  base, 
and  weak,  and  cause  them  to  be  sick  and  dis- 
eased. Nay,  and  when  we  say  that  a  virgin  is 
corrupted,  we  say  so,  strictly  speaking,  on  this 
account  also,  not  only  because  the  body  is  de- 
filed, but  because  of  the  transgression.  For  the 
mere  act  is  natural ;  and  if  in  that  consisted  the 
"corruption,"  then  were  marriage  corruption. 
Hence  is  it  not  the  act  that  is  corruption,  but 
the  sin,  for  it  dishonors  and  puts  her  to  shame. 
And  again,  what  would  be  corruption  in  the 
case  of  a  house?  Its  dissolution.  And  so, 
universally,  corruption  is  a  change  which  takes 
place  for  the  worse,  a  change  into  another 
state,  to  the  utter  extinction  of  the  former 
one.  For  hear  what  the  Scripture  saith,  "All 
flesh  had  corrupted  his  way"  (Gen.  vi.  12)  ; 
and  again,  "In  intolerable  corruption"3  (Ex. 
xviii.  18)  ;  and  again,  "  Men  corrupted  in 
mind."  (2  Tim.  ill.  8.)  Our  body  is  corrup- 
tible, but  our  soul  is  incorruptible.  Oh  then,  let 
us  not  make  that  corruptible  also.  This,  the 
corruption  of  the  body,  was  the  work  of  former 
sin ; 4  but  sin  which  is  after  the  Laver,  has  the 
power  also  to  render  the  soul  corruptible,  and 
to  make  it  an  easy  prey  to  "  the  worm  that 
dieth  not."  For  never  had  that  worm  touched 
it,  had  it  not  found  the  soul  corruptible.  The 
worm  touches  not  adamant,  and  even  if  he 
touches  it,  he  can  do  it  no  harm.  Oh  then, 
corrupt  not  the  soul ;  for  that  which  is  corrupted 
is  full  of  foul  stench  ;  for  hearken  to  the  Prophet 
who  saith,  "  My  wounds  stink  and  are  corrupt 
because  of  my  foolishness."     (Ps.  xxxviii.  5.) 

1  ["  *v  here  expresses  the  manner,  and  the  expression  means 
those  '  who  love  our  Lord  in  imperishableness,'  i.e. '  so  that  their  love 
does  not  pass  away.'    Comp.  Tit.  iii.  15."  —  Meyer.  — G.  A.l 

a  [Tit.  ii.  7,  where  a<t>9opia  is  used,  which,  according  to  Meyer, 
does  mean  uncorruptedness,  while  afyQapaia  in  our  passage  means 
imperishableness.  —  G.  A.]  ,  . 

3  t^?2f '  Kara4>9apri<rj)  awwonovrJTV  for  Hebrew  73fl  v23>  R*v» 
Ver.,  "  Thou  wilt  surely  wear  away."  —  G.  A.]  T 

4  [Comp.  Rom.  v.  12:  "As  through  one  man  sin  entered  into 
the  world,  and  death  by  sin;  and  so  death  passed  unto  all  men." 
—  G.A.J 


172 


WORKS   OF   ST.   CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  XXIV. 


However,  "  this  corruption "  of  the  body 
"  shall  put  on  incorruption  "  (i  Cor.  xv.  53),  but 
the  other  of  the  soul,  never ;  for  where  incor- 
ruption is,  there  is  no *  corruption.  Thus  is  it 
a  corruption  which  is  incorruptible,  which  hath 
no  end,  a  deathless  death;  which  would  have 
been,  had  the  body  remained  deathless.  Now 
if  we  shall  depart  into  the  next  world  having 
corruption,  we  have  that  corruption  incorrupti- 
ble and  endless;  for  to  be  ever  burning,  and 
not  burnt  up,  ever  wasted  by  the  worm,  is  cor- 
ruption incorruptible  ;  like  as  was  the  case  with 
the  blessed  Job.  He  was  corrupted,  and  died 
not,  and  that  through  a  lengthened  period,  and 
"  wasted  continually,  scraping  the  clods  of  dust 
from  his  sore."  *  Some  such  torment  as  this  shall 
it  undergo,  when  the  worms  surround  and  devour 
it,  not  for  two  years  nor  for  three,  nor  for  ten, 
nor  for  ten  thousand,  but  for  years  without  end ; 
for  "  their  worm,"  saith  He,  "  dieth  not." 

Moral.  Let  us  take  the  alarm  then,  I  entreat 
you,  let  us  dread  the  words,  that  we  meet  not 
with  the  realities.  Covetousness  is  corruption, 
corruption  more  dangerous  than  any  other, 
and  leading  on  to  idolatry.  Let  us  shun 
the  corruption,  let  us  choose  the  incorrup- 
tion. Hast  thou  in  covetousness  overreached 
and  defrauded  some  one  ?  The  fruits  of  thy 
covetousness  perish,  but  the  covetousness  re- 
mains; a  corruption  which  is  the  founda- 
tion of  incorruptible  corruption.  The  enjoy- 
ment indeed  passes  away,  but  the  sin  remains 
imperishable.  A  fearful  evil  is  it  for  us  not 
to  strip  ourselves  of  everything  in  this  pres- 
ent world;  a  great  calamity  to  depart  into 
the  next  with  loads  of  sins  about  us.  "  For  in 
Sheol,"  it  is  said  "  who  shall  give  Thee  thanks?  " 
(Ps.  vi.  5.)     There  is  the  place  of  judgment; 

1  [Field's  text  has  Ip0«  yap  a&Bapaia,  fBopa  corns  which  seems 
a  contradiction,  whereas  Savile's  text,  with  four  MSS.,  has  ov« 
forty.  —  G.  A.J 

*  [Job  vii.  5,  Sept.:  ^vperan  64  iiov  to  o£p«  iv  (raw pirn.  okmAt)- 
xwy,  Tij«tt  to  /SwAoxoc  yip  awb  tx*»pof  (vtv:  "  My  flesh  is  mingled 
with  the  filth  of  worms,  and  I  pine  away,  scraping  clods  (or  crusts) 
of  earth  from  my  sore  "  (discharge,  matter,  pus).  The  Rev.  Ver. 
has:  "  My  flesh  is  clothed  with  worms  ana  clods  of  dust."  So 
nearly  Zockler  in  Lange:  "My  flesh  is  clothed  with  worms  and 
crusts  of  earth."  —  G.  A.  J 


then  is  there  no  longer  season  for  repentance. 
How  many  things  did  the  rich  man  bewail  then? 
(Luke  xvi.  23.)  And  yet  it  availed  him  noth- 
ing. How  many  things  did  they  say  who  had 
neglected  to  feed  Christ?  (Matt.  xxv.  41.) 
Yet  were  they  led  away  notwithstanding  into  the 
everlasting  fire.  How  many  things  had  they 
then  to  say :  "  that  had  wrought  iniquity " ; 
"  Lord,  did  we  not  prophesy  by  Thy  Name,  and 
by  Thy  Name  cast  out  devils?"  And  yet  not- 
withstanding, they  were  not  owned.  All  these 
things  therefore  will  take  place  then ;  but  it  will 
be  of  no  avail,  if  they  be  not  done  now.  Let  us 
fear  then,  lest  ever  we  should  have  to  say  then, 
"  Lord,  when  saw  we  Thee  an  hungered,  and 
fed  Thee  not  ?  "  (Matt.  xxv.  44.)  Let  us  feed 
Him  now,  not  one  day,  nor  two,  nor  three  days. 
"  For  let  not  mercy  and  truth,"  saith  the  Wise 
Man,  "forsake  thee."  (Prov.  iii.  3.)  He  saith 
not  "  do  it  once,  nor  twice."  The  Virgins,  we 
know,  had  oil,  but  not  enough  to  last  out. 
(Matt.  xxv.  3,  8.)  And  thus  we  need  much  oil, 
and  thus  should  we  be  "  like  a  green  olive  tree 
in  the  house  of  God."  (Ps.  Iii.  8.)  Let  us  re- 
flect then  how  many  burdens  of  sins  each  of  us 
has  about  him,  and  let  us  make  our  acts  of 
mercy  counterbalance  them;  nay  rather,  far 
exceed  them,  that  not  only  the  sins  may  be 
quenched,  but  that  the  acts  of  righteousness 
may  be  also  accounted  unto  us  for  righteous- 
ness. For  if  the  good  deeds  be  not  so  many  in 
number  as  to  put  aside  the  crimes  laid  against 
us,  and  out  of  the  remainder  to  be  counted  unto 
us  for  righteousness,8  then  shall  no  one  rescue 
us  from  that  punishment,  from  which  God  grant 
that  we  may  be  all  delivered,  through  the  grace 
and  lovingkindness  of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ, 
with  whom  to  the  Father,  &c. 

9  [Such  passages  as  this  in  the  Fathers  are  used  by  Romanists 
and  Tractanans  for  establishing  their  views,  and  it  is  no  wonder  the 
Tractarians  were  zealous  in  giving  the  Fathers  to  the  English  in 
English.  But,  as  Jacob  says  (Eccl.  Polity  of  N.  T.,  pp.  a8  and  39), 
"  Our  appeal  is  from  the  Nicene  Fathers  to  the  Apostles  of  Christ; 
from  patristic  literature  to  the  New  Testament ;  lor  it  is  not  being 
near  to  the  truth  that  makes  men  good  and  wise,"  but  having  the 
truth  itself.  —  G.  A.] 


THE  HOMILIES  OF  ST.  JOHN  CHRYSOSTOM, 


ARCHBISHOP  OF  CONSTANTINOPLE, 


ON   THE 


EPISTLES  OF   ST.  PAUL  THE  APOSTLE 


TO   THE 


PHILIPPIANS,  COLOSSIANS,  AND  THESSALONIANS. 

The  Oxford  Translation  Revised,   with  Additional  Notes,  by 
REV.  JOHN   A.  BROADUS,  D.D., 

PRESIDENT  OF  THE   SOUTHERN    BAPTIST  THEOLiXHCAL    SEMINARY,    LOUISVILLE,   KY. 


PREFACE    [TO    THE    OXFORD    ED.]. 


The  present  Volume  completes  the  commentaries  of  St.  Chrysostom  on  the  shorter  Epis- 
tles of  St.  Paul.  It  consists  entirely  of  Homilies  delivered  at  Constantinople,  and  one  may 
perhaps  remark  some  indications  of  a  more  matured  and  severe  character  than  in  earlier 
works.  He  refers  several  times  to  his  responsibility  as  presiding  in  the  Church,  and  some- 
times threatens  discipline  as  in  that  capacity,  and  from  this  it  is  that  the  date  of  the  Homi- 
lies is  chiefly  to  be  gathered.  The  end  of  Horn.  ix.  on  the  Philippians,  is  sufficient  for 
those  Homilies.  The  close  of  Horn.  iii.  on  Colossians,  is  still  more  express  for  them.  Horn, 
viii.  on  i  Thessalonians,  and  Horn.  iv.  on  2  Thessalonians,  are  to  the  like  purpose. 

Horn.  viii.  on  1  Thessalonians,  seems  also  to  be  that  which  is  referred  to  in  Horn.  iii. 
on  Ep.  to  Philemon,  as  it  contains  a  promise  to  discuss  at  some  future  time  the  subject 
there  taken  up. 

Phil.  ii.  6,  and  Col.  i.  15,  &c.  give  rise  to  doctrinal  discussions.  The  readiness  in  argu- 
ment, which  they  suppose  in  hearers,  is  greater  than  one  would  expect.  Horn.  v.  on  Colos- 
sians goes  farther  into  the  system  of  typical  interpretation  than  is  usual  with  St.  Chrysostom ; 
though  the  system  is  in  fact  acknowledged  by  him  frequently,  as  in  the  passage  on  marriage, 
which  closes  the  Homilies  on  the  Colossians,  and  which,  though  scarcely  admissible  in  mod- 
ern taste,  is  one  of  great  value,  and  of  a  saintly  purity.  The  close  of  Horn.  iv.  on  Colos- 
sians is  most  instructive  with  regard  to  the  use  of  the  Historical  Books  of  the  Old  Testa- 
ment, and  Horn.  ix.  points  out  one  great  use  of  the  Psalms,  for  moral  impression,  and  at 
the  same  time  draws  the  necessary  distinction  between  that  and  the  higher  aim  of  Hymns. 
In  these  Homilies  he  is  particularly  severe  on  luxury  and  display,  by  his  attacks  on  which 
he  is  known  to  have  incurred  the  displeasure  of  the  Empress  Eudoxia,  and  much  persecu- 
tion from  her. 

A  passage  on  the  Holy  Sacraments  at  the  end  of  Horn.  vi.  on  Colossians,  one  on  Prayers 
for  the  departed  in  Horn.  iii.  on  Philippians,  and  one  in  which  he  urges  persons  at  enmity 
to  immediate  reconciliation,  Horn.  vi.  on  1  Thessalonians,  as  well  as  that  in  Horn.  iii.  in 
Colossians,  on  unworthiness  of  Ministers,  and  several  hints  that  occur  about  the  order  of 
Divine  service,  are  well  worthy  of  remark. 

Savile's  text,  with  some  comparison  of  others,  was  used  for  the  Homilies  on  the  Philip- 
pians, and  that  of  the  new  Paris  Edition,  with  Savile  always  at  hand,  for  the  rest.  Collations 
of  one  MS.  in  British  Museum  (Burney  48  here  marked  B  [called  C  by  Field])  were  also 
in  hand,  but  those  of  MSS.  at  Venice  and  Florence  came  too  late  for  part  of  the  work. 
The  want  of  them  is  not  however  very  material.  The  Bodleian  MS.  referred  to,  as  well  as 
the  Catena  published  by  Dr.  Cramer,  contain  only  extracts.  It  is  hoped  that  the  Homilies 
on  2  Cor.  will  have  the  benefit  of  a  well-adjusted  text  before  the  Translation  is  published, 
as  they  are  preparing  for  publication  by  Mr.  Field,  whom  the  Editor  has  to  thank  for  infor- 


176  PREFACE. 


mation  on  some  particulars,  as  well  as  for  the  benefit  of  having  his  accurate  edition  of  the 
Homilies  on  St.  Matthew  to  refer  to. 

For  the  Translation  of  the  Homilies  on  the  Philippians,  the  Editors  are  indebted  to  the 
Rev.  W.  C.  Cotton,  M.A.  of  Ch.  Ch.  Chaplain  to  the  Bishop  of  New  Zealand;  for  that  of 
the  Homilies  on  the  Colossians,  to  the  Rev.  J.  Ashworth,  M.A.  Fellow  of  Brasenose  Col- 
lege ;  and  for  the  rest  of  the  volume,  to  the  Rev.  James  Tweed,  M.A.  of  Corpus  Christi 
College,  Cambridge,  the  Translator  of  the  Homilies  on  the  Pastoral  Epistles  of  St.  Paul. 
The  Index  to  the  two  former  is  by  the  Rev.  F.  Bowles,  M.A.  of  Exeter  College,  and  to  the 
latter  by  the  Editor,  which  is  noticed  in  order  that  the  reader  may  find  the  less  difficulty 
from  any  difference  in  the  heads  under  which  similar  matter  may  be  placed,  as  the  two 
were  made  simultaneously  to  save  time. 

A  few  points  on  which  the  Editor  was  not  informed  until  the  sheets  were  printed  are 
noticed  in  the  Addenda  and  Corrigenda.  [In  the  Amer.  ed.  these  are  inserted  in  their 
proper  places.  For  the  text  followed  in  Amer.  ed.,  see  Preface  at  the  beginning  of  the 
volume.] 


C.  M. 


CONTENTS. 


HOMILIES  ON   PHILIPPIANS. 

PACK 

Introductory  Discourse 181 

Homily  I.— Phil.  i.  I,  2.  Paul  and  Timothy,  servants  of  Christ  Jesus,  to  all  the  saints  in  Christ  Jesus  which 
are  at  Philippi,  with  the  Bishops  and  Deacons :  Grace  to  you,  and  peace,  from  God  our  Father,  and  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ 184 

Homily  II.  —  Phil.  i.  8-1 1.  For  God  is  my  witness,  how  I  long  after  you  all  in  the  tender  mercies  of  Christ 
Jesus.  And  this  I  pray,  that  your  love  may  abound  yet  more  and  more  in  knowledge  and  all  discern- 
ment; so  that  ye  may  approve  the  things  that  are  excellent;  that  ye  may  be  sincere  and  void  of  offence  unto 
the  day  of  Christ;  being  rilled  with  the  fruits  of  righteousness,  which  are  through  Jesus  Christ,  unto  the 
glory  and  praise  of  God 188 

Homily  III.  —  Phil.  i.  18-20.  And  therein  I  rejoice,  yea  and  will  rejoice.  For  I  know  that  this  shall  turn  to 
my  salvation  through  your  supplication  and  the  supply  of  the  Spirit  of  Jesus  Christ,  according  to  my  ear- 
nest expectation  and  hope,  that  in  nothing  shall  I  be  put  to  shame,  but  that  with  all  boldness,  as  always, 
so  now  also  Christ  shall  be  magnified  in  my  body,  whether  by  life,  or  by  death 193 

Homily  IV.  —  Phil.  i.  22-26.  Then  what  I  shall  choose  I  wot  not.  But  I  am  in  a  strait  betwixt  the  two, 
having  the  desire  to  depart  and  be  with  Christ;  for  it  is  very  far  better:  yet  to  abide  in  the  flesh  is  more 
needful  for  your  sake.  And  having  this  confidence,  I  know  that  I  shall  abide,  yea  and  abide  with  you  all, 
for  your  progress  and  joy  in  the  faith ;  that  your  glorying  may  abound  in  Jesus  Christ  in  me  through  my 
presence  with  you  again 198 

Homily  V.  —  Phil.  ii.  1-4.  If  there  is  therefore  any  comfort  in  Christ,  if  any  consolation  of  love,  if  any  fel- 
lowship of  the  Spirit,  if  any  tender  mercies  and  compassions,  fulfill  ye  my  joy,  that  ye  be  of  the  same 
mind,  having  the  same  love,  being  of  one  accord,  of  one  mind;  doing  nothing  through  faction,  or 
through  vainglory;  but  in  lowliness  of  mind  each  counting  other  better  than  himself;  not  looking  each  of 
you  to  his  own  things,  but  each  of  you  also  to  the  things  of  others 203 

Homily  VI.  —  Phil.  ii.  5-8.  Have  this  mind  in  you,  which  was  also  in  Christ  Jesus :  who  being  in  the  form 
of  God  counted  it  not  a  prize  to  be  on  an  equality  with  God :  but  emptied  himself,  taking  the  form  of  a  ser- 
vant, being  made  in  the  likeness  of  men :  and  being  found  in  fashion  as  a  man,  He  humbled  Himself, 
becoming  obedient  unto  death,  yea  the  death  of  the  cross 206 

Homily  VII.  —  PhiL  ii.  5-1 1.  Have  this  mind  in  you,  which  was  also  in  Christ  Jesus:  who  being  in  the  form 
of  God  counted  it  not  a  prize  to  be  on  an  equality  with  God :  but  emptied  Himself,  taking  upon  Him  the 
form  of  a  servant,  being  made  in  the  likeness  of  men :  and  being  found  in  fashion  as  a  man,  He  humbled 
Himself,  becoming  obedient  unto  death,  yea  the  death  of  the  cross.  Wherefore  also  God  highly  exalted 
Him,  and  gave  unto  Him  the  Name  which  is  above  every  name :  that  in  the  Name  of  Jesus  every  knee 
should  bow,  of  things  in  heaven,  and  things  on  earth,  and  things  under  the  earth;  and  that  every  tongue 
should  confess  that  Jesus  Christ  is  Lord,  to  the  glory  of  God  the  Father 212 

Homily  VIII.  —  PhiL  ii.  12-16.  So  then,  my  beloved,  even  as  ye  have  always  obeyed,  not  as  in  my  presence 
only,  but  now  much  more  in  my  absence,  work  out  your  own  salvation  with  fear  and  trembling.  For  it  is 
God  which  worketh  in  you  both  to  will  and  to  work  for  His  good  pleasure.  Do  all  things  without  murmur- 
m&  and  disputings :  that  ye  may  be  blameless  and  harmless,  children  of  God  without  blemish  in  the  midst 
of  a  crooked  and  perverse  generation,  among  whom  ye  are  seen  as  lights  in  the  world ;  holding  forth  the 
word  of  life;  that  I  may  have  whereof  to  glory  in  the  day  of  Christ 219 

Homily  IX. —  Phil,  ii  19,  20,  21.  But  I  hope  in  the  Lord  Jesus  to  send  Timothy  shortly  unto  you,  that  I  also 
roay  be  of  good  comfort,  when  I  know  your  state.  For  I  have  no  man  likeminded,  who  will  care  truly  for 
your  state.    For  they  all  seek  their  own,  not  the  things  of  Jesus  Christ 223 

Homily  X. — Phil.  iii.  1-3.  Finally,  my  brethren,  rejoice  in  the  Lord.  To  write  the  same  things  to  you,  to 
me  indeed  is  not  irksome,  but  for  you  it  is  safe.  Beware  of  the  dogs,  beware  of  the  evil  workers,  beware 
<*  the  concision.  For  we  are  the  circumcision,  who  worship  by  the  spirit  of  God,  and  glory  in  Christ  Jesus, 
and  have  no  confidence  in  the  flesh 229 


1 78  CONTENTS. 


EPISTLE  TO  THE   PHILIPPIANS  —  Continued.  PAGB 

Homily  XI.  —  Phil.  iii.  7-10.  Howbeit  what  things  were  gain  to  me,  these  have  I  counted  loss  for  Christ 
Yea,  verily,  and  I  count  all  things  to  be  loss  for  the  excellency  of  the  knowledge  of  Christ  Jesus  my  Lord : 
for  whom  I  suffered  the  loss  of  all  things,  and  do  count  them  but  dung,  that  I  may  gain  Christ,  and  be 
found  in  Him,  not  having  a  righteousness  of  mine  own,  even  that  which  is  of  the  law,  but  that  which  is 
through  faith  in  Christ,  the  righteousness  which  is  of  God  by  faith 234 

Homily  XII.  —  Phil.  iii.  13,  14.  Brethren,  I  count  not  myself  yet  to  have  apprehended:  but  one  thing  I  do, 
forgetting  the  things  which  are  behind,  and  stretching  forward  to  the  things  which  are  before,  I  press  on 
toward  the  goal  unto  the  prize  of  the  high  calling  of  God  in  Christ  Jesus 238 

Homily  XIII.  —  Phil.  iii.  18-21.  For  many  walk,  of  whom  I  told  you  often,  and  now  tell  you  even  weeping, 
that  they  are  the  enemies  of  the  cross  of  Christ :  whose  end  is  perdition,  whose  god  is  the  belly,  and  whose 
glory  is  in  their  shame,  who  mind  earthly  things.  For  our  citizenship  is  in  heaven;  from  whence  also  we 
wait  for  a  Saviour,  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ :  who  shall  fashion  anew  the  body  of  our  humiliation,  that  it  may 
be  conformed  to  the  body  of  His  glory,  according  to  the  working  whereby  He  is  able  even  to  subject  all 
things  unto  Himself 242 

Homily  XIV.  —  Phil.  iv.  4-7.  Rejoice  in  the  Lord  alway :  again  I  will  say,  Rejoice.  Let  your  forbearance  be 
known  unto  all  men.  The  Lord  is  at  hand.  In  nothing  be  anxious;  but  in  everything  by  prayer  and  sup- 
plication with  thanksgiving  let  your  requests  be  made  known  unto  God.  And  the  peace  of  God,  which 
passeth  all  understanding,  shall  guard  your  hearts  and  your  thoughts  in  Christ  Jesus 246 

Homily  XV.  —  Phil.  iv.  10-14.  Bu*  I  rejoice  in  the  Lord  greatly,  that  now  at  length  ye  have  revived  your 
thought  for  me;  wherein  ye  did  indeed  take  thought,  but  ye  lacked  opportunity.  Not  that  I  speak  in  re- 
spect of  want :  for  I  have  learned  in  whatsoever  state  I  am,  therein  to  be  content.  I  know  how  to  be 
abased  and  I  know  also  how  to  abound :  in  everything  and  in  all  things  have  I  learned  the  secret  both  to 
be  filled  and  to  be  hungry,  both  to  abound  and  to  be  in  want.  I  can  do  all  things  in  Him  that  strength- 
eneth  me.     Howbeit  ye  did  well,  that  ye  had  fellowship  with  my  affliction 249 


EPISTLE  TO  THE  COLOSSIANS. 

Homily  I.  —  Col.  i.  1,  2.  Paul,  an  apostle  of  Christ  Jesus  through  the  will  of  God,  and  Timothy  our  brother, 
to  the  saints  and  faithful  brethren  in  Christ  which  are  at  Colossae :  grace  to  you,  and  peace,  from  God  our 
Father 257 

Homily  II.  —  Col.  i.  9,  10.  For  this  cause  we  also,  since  the  day  we  heard  it,  do  not  cease  to  pray  and  make 
request  for  you,  that  ye  may  be  filled  with  the  knowledge  of  His  will  in  all  spiritual  wisdom  and  under- 
standing;  to  walk  worthily  of  the  Lord  unto  all  pleasing,  bearing  fruit  in  every  good  work,  and  increasing 
in  the  knowledge  of  God 264 

Homily  III.  —  Col.  i.  15-18.  Who  is  the  Image  of  the  invisible  God,  the  Firstborn  of  all  creation.  For  in 
Him  were  all  things  created,  in  the  heavens,  and  upon  the  earth,  things  visible  and  things  invisible,  whether 
thrones  or  dominions  or  principalities  or  powers :  all  things  have  been  created  through  Him  and  unto 
Him :  and  He  is  before  all  things,  and  in  Him  all  things  consist.  And  He  is  the  head  of  the  body,  the 
Church 270 

Homily  IV.  —  Col.  i.  21,  22.  And  you  being  in  time  past  alienated  and  enemies  in  your  mind  in  your  evil 
works,  yet  now  hath  He  reconciled  in  the  body  of  His  flesh  through  death,  to  present  you  holy  and  without 
blemish  and  unreprovable  before  Him 275 

Homily  V.  —  Col.  i.  26-28.  Even  the  mystery  which  hath  been  hid  from  all  ages  and  generations:  but  now 
hath  it  been  manifested  to  His  saints,  to  whom  God  was  pleased  to  make  known  what  is  the  riches  of  the 
glory  of  this  mystery  among  the  Gentiles,  which  is  Christ  in  you,  the  hope  of  glory :  whom  we  proclaim, 
admonishing  every  man,  and  teaching  every  man  in  all  wisdom;  that  we  may  present  every  man  perfect  in 
Christ 279 

Homily  VI.  —  Col.  ii.  6,  7.    As  therefore  ye  received  Christ  Jesus  the  Lord,  so  walk  in  Him :  rooted  and  builded 

up  in  Him,  and  stablished  in  your  faith,  even  as  ye  were  taught,  abounding  in  thanksgiving 284 

Homily  VII.  —  Col.  ii.  16-19.  I^et  no  man  therefore  judge  you  in  meat,  or  in  drink,  or  in  respect  of  a  feast- 
day  or  a  new  moon,  or  a  Sabbath  day :  which  are  a  shadow  of  the  things  to  come;  but  the  body  is  Christ's. 
I^et  no  man  rob  you  of  your  prize  by  a  voluntary  humility  and  worshiping  of  the  angels,  dwelling  in  the 
things  which  he  hath  seen,  vainly  puffed  up  by  his  fleshly  mind,  and  not  holding  fast  the  Head,  from  whom 
all  the  body  being  supplied  and  knit  together  through  the  joints  and  bands,  increaseth  with  the  increase 
of  God 288 


CONTENTS.  1 79 


EPISTLE  TO  THE  COLOSSIANS  —  Continued.  pack 

Homily  VIII.  —  Col.  iii.  5-7.  Mortify  therefore  your  members  which  are  upon  the  earth;  fornication,  unclean- 
ness,  passion,  evil  desire,  and  covetousness,  the  which  is  idolatry;  for  which  things'  sake  cometh  the  wrath  of 
God  upon  the  sons  of  disobedience;  in  the  which  ye  also  walked  aforetime  when  ye  lived  in  these  things.   293 

Homily  IX.  —  Col.  iii.  16,  17.  Let  the  word  of  Christ  dwell  in  you  richly  in  all  wisdom;  teaching  and  ad- 
monishing one  another  with  psalms  and  hymns  and  spiritual  songs,  singing  with  grace  in  your  hearts  unto 
God.  And  whatsoever  ye  do  in  word  or  in  deed,  do  all  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus,  giving  thanks  to  God 
the  Father  through  him 300 

Homily  X. — CoL  iii.  18-25.  Wives,  be  in  subjection  to  your  husbands,  as  is  fitting  in  the  Lord.  Husbands, 
love  your  wives,  and  be  not  bitter  against  them.  Children,  obey  your  parents  in  all  things,  for  this  is  well- 
pleasing  in  the  Lord.  Fathers,  provoke  not  your  children,  that  they  be  not  discouraged.  Servants,  obey  in 
all  things  them  that  are  your  masters  according  to  the  flesh;  not  with  eyeservice,  as  men-pleasers,  but  in 
singleness  of  heart,  fearing  the  Lord :  whatsoever  ye  do,  work  heartily,  as  unto  the  Lord,  and  not  unto  men; 
knowing  that  from  the  Lord  ye  shall  receive  the  recompense  of  the  inheritance :  ye  serve  the  Lord  Christ. 
For  he  that  doeth  wrong  shall  receive  again  for  the  wrong  that  he  hath  done :  and  there  is  no  respect 
of  persons.  Chap.  iv.  1.  Masters,  render  unto  your  servants  that  which  is  just  and  equal;  knowing 
that  ye  also  have  a  Master  in  heaven 303 

Homily  XI.  —  Col.  iv.  5,  6.  Walk  in  wisdom  toward  them  that  are  without,  redeeming  the  time.  Let  your 
speech  be  always  with  grace,  seasoned  with  salt,  that  ye  may  know  how  ye  ought  to  answer  each  one 309 

Homily  XII.  —  Col.  iv.  12,  13.  Epaphras,  who  is  one  of  you,  a  servant  of  Christ  Jesus,  saluteth  you,  always 
striving  for  you  in  his  prayers,  that  ye  may  stand  perfect  and  fully  assured  in  all  the  will  of  God.  For  I 
bear  him  witness  that  he  hath  much  labor  for  you,  and  for  them  in  Laodioea,  and  for  them  in  Hierapolis. .  314 


FIRST  EPISTLE  TO  THE  THESSALONIANS. 

Homily  I.—  i  Thess.  i.  I,  2,  3.  Paul,  and  Silvanus,  and  Timothy,  unto  the  Church  of  the  Thessalonians  in 
God  the  Father  and  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ :  Grace  to  you,  and  peace.  We  give  thanks  to  God  always  for 
you  all,  making  mention  of  you  in  our  prayers;  remembering  without  ceasing  your  work  of  faith  and 
labor  of  love  and  patience  of  hope  in  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ  before  our  God  and  Father 323 

Homily  II. —  1  Thess.  i.  8,  9,  10.  For  from  you  hath  sounded  forth  the  word  of  the  Lord,  not  only  in  Mace- 
donia and  Achaia,  but  in  every  place  your  faith  to  God-ward  is  gone  forth;  so  that  we  need  not  to 
speak  anything.  For  they  themselves  report  concerning  us  what  manner  of  entering  in  we  had  unto  you; 
and  how  ye  turned  unto  God  from  idols,  to  serve  a  living  and  true  God,  and  to  wait  for  His  Son  from 
Heaven,  whom  He  raised  from  the  dead,  even  Jesus,  which  delivereth  us  from  the  wrath  to  come 327 

Homily  HI. —  1  Thess.  ii.  9-12.  For  ye  remember,  brethren,  our  labor  and  travail:  working  night  and  day, 
that  we  might  not  burden  any  of  you,  we  preached  unto  you  the  Gospel  of  God.  Ye  are  witnesses,  and 
God  also,  how  holily  and  righteously  and  unblamably  we  behaved  ourselves  toward  you  that  believe :  as 
ye  know  how  we  dealt  with  each  one  of  you,  as  a  father  with  his  own  children,  exhorting  you  and  encour- 
aging you  and  testifying,  to  the  end  that  ye  should  walk  worthily  of  God,  who  calleth  you  into  His  own 
kingdom  and  glory 332 

Homily  IV. —  1  Thess.  iii.  5-8.  For  this  cause  I  also,  when  I  could  no  longer  forbear,  sent  that  I  might  know 
your  faith,  lest  by  any  means  the  tempter  had  tempted  you,  and  our  labor  should  be  in  vain.  But  when 
Timothy  came  even  now  unto  us  from  you,  and  brought  us  glad  tidings  of  your  faith  and  love,  and  that  ye 
have  good  remembrance  of  us  always,  longing  to  see  us,  even  as  we  also  to  see  you;  for  this  cause,  breth- 
ren, we  were  comforted  over  you  in  all  our  distress  and  affliction  through  your  faith :  for  now  we  live,  if 
7*  stand  fast  in  the  Lord 339 

Homily  V. —  1  Thess.  iv.  1,  2,  3.  Finally  then,  brethren,  we  beseech  and  exhort  you  in  the  Lord  Jesus,  that 
**  ye  received  of  us  how  ye  ought  to  walk  and  to  please  God,  even  as  ye  do  walk,  —  that  ye  abound  more 
«nd  more.  For  ye  know  what  charge  we  gave  you  through  the  Lord  Jesus.  For  this  is  the  will  of  God, 
even  your  sanctification 344 

"OWLY  VL —  I  Thess.  iv.  9,  10.  But  concerning  love  of  the  brethren  ye  have  no  need  that  one  write  unto 
yon:  for  ye  yourselves  are  taught  of  God  to  love  one  another;  for  indeed  ye  do  it  toward  all  the  brethren 
which  are  in  all  Macedonia 348 

«0*tLY  VII.  —  1  Thess.  to.  13.  But  we  would  not  have  you  ignorant,  brethren,  concerning  them  that  fall 
ft&ep;  that  ye  sorrow  not,  even  as  the  rest,  which  have  no  hope 352 

Homily  VIII. —  1  Thess.  to.  15-17.  For  this  we  say  unto  you  by  the  word  of  the  Lord,  that  we  that  are  alive, 
that  are  left  unto  the  coming  of  the  Lord,  shall  in  no  wise  precede  them  that  are  fallen  asleep.    For  the 


180  CONTENTS. 


FIRST   EPISTLE  TO  THE  THESSALONI ANS  —  Continued.  FAGB 

Lord  Himself  shall  descend  from  heaven,  with  a  shout,  with  the  voice  of  the  Archangel,  and  with  the 
trump  of  God :  and  the  dead  in  Christ  shall  rise  first :  then  we  that  are  alive,  that  are  left,  shall  together 
with  them  be  caught  up  in  the  clouds,  to  meet  the  Lord  in  the  air :  and  so  shall  we  ever  be  with  the  Lord  355 

Homily  IX. —  1  Thess.  v.  1,  2.  But  concerning  the  times  and  the  seasons,  brethren,  ye  have  no  need  that 
aught  be  written  unto  you.  For  yourselves  know  perfectly  that  the  day  of  the  Lord  so  cometh  as  a  thief 
in  the  night 360 

Homily  X. —  1  Thess.  v.  12,  13.  But  we  beseech  you,  brethren,  to  know  them  that  labor  among  you,  and  are 
over  you  in  the  Lord,  and  admonish  you;  and  to  esteem  them  exceeding  highly  in  love  for  their  works* 
sake.     Be  at  peace  among  yourselves 366 

Homily  XI.  —  1  Thess.  v.  19-22.    Quench  not  the  Spirit;  despise  not  prophesyings;  prove  all  things;  hold 

fast  that  which  is  good ;  abstain  from  every  form  of  evil 370 


SECOND   EPISTLE  TO  THE  THESSALONIANS. 

Homily  I.  —  Argument 377 

Homily  II.  —  2  Thess.  i.  1,  2.  Paul,  and  Silvanus,  and  Timothy,  unto  the  Church  of  the  Thessalonians  in  God 
our  Father  and  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ;  Grace  to  you  and  peace  from  God  the  Father  and  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ 380 

Homily  III.  —  2  Thess.  i.  9,  10.  Who  shall  suffer  punishment,  even  eternal  destruction  from  the  face  of  the 
Lord,  and  from  the  glory  of  His  might,  when  He  shall  come  to  be  glorified  in  His  Saints,  and  to  be  mar- 
veled at  in  all  them  that  believed • 384 

Homily  IV.  —  2  Thess.  ii.  6-9.  And  now  ye  know  that  which  restraineth,  to  the  end  that  he  may  be  revealed 
in  his  own  season.  For  the  mystery  of  lawlessness  doth  already  work :  only  there  is  one  that  restraineth 
now,  until  he  be  taken  out  of  the  way.  And  then  shall  be  revealed  the  lawless  one,  whom  the  Lord  Jesus 
shall  slay  with  the  breath  of  His  mouth  and  bring  to  naught  by  the  manifestation  of  his  coming :  even 
he,  whose  coming  is  according  to  the  working  of  Satan 388 

Homily  V.  —  2  Thess.  iii.  3-5.  But  the  Lord  is  faithful,  who  shall  stablish  you,  and  guard  you  from  the  evil 
one.  And  we  have  confidence  in  the  Lord  touching  you,  that  ye  both  do  and  will  do  the  things  which 
we  command.    And  the  Lord  direct  your  hearts  into  the  love  of  God,  and  into  the  patience  of  Christ. . . .  393 


HOMILIES  OF  ST.  JOHN  CHRYSOSTOM, 

ARCHBISHOP  OF  CONSTANTINOPLE, 


EPISTLE  OF  ST.  PAUL  THE  APOSTLE 


PHILIPPIANS. 


INTRODUCTORY  DISCOURSE. 

The  Philippiaos  are  of  a  city  in  Macedonia, 
■  city  that  is  a  colony,  as  Luke  saith.     Here 
that  seller  of  purple  was  converted,  a  woman  of 
uncommon  piety  and   hecdfulness.     Here   the 
ruler  of  the  synagogue '  believed.      Here  was 
Paul  scourged  with  Silas.     Here  the  magistral    - 
requested  them  to  depart,  and  were    afraid  of 
them,  and  the  preaching  had  an  illustrious  com- 
mencement.    And   he  bears  them   many  and 
high  testimonies  himself,  calling  them  his  own 
crown,  and  saying  they  had  suffered  much.    For, 
"To  you,"  he  saith,  "  it  hath  been  granted  of 
God* not  only  to  believe  on  Him,  but  also  ta 
differ  in  His  behalf."    (Phil.  i.  29.)     But  when 
he  wrote  to  them,  it  happened  that  he  was  in 
bonds.    Therefore  he  says,  "So  that  my  bonds 
became  manifest  in  Christ  in  the  whole  pm> 
torium,"  calling  the  palace  of  Nero  the  preetor- 
jam.*     But  he  was  bound  and  let  go  again,4  ami 
this  he  showed  to  Timothy  by  saying,  "  At  my 
first  defence  no  one  took  my  part,  but  all  for- 
sook me  :  may  it  not  be  laid  to  thi " 


But  the  Lord  stood  by  me  and  strengthened 
me."  (2  Tim.  iv.  16.)  He  speaks  of  the  bonds 
then  in  which  he  was  before  that  defence.  For 
that  Timothy  was  not  present  then,  is  evident : 
for, "  At  my  first  defence,"  he  says,  "  no  man  took 
my  part";  and  this,  by  writing,  he  was  making 
known  to  him.  He  would  not  then,  had  he 
already  known  it,  have  written  thus  to  him. 
But  when  he  wrote  this  epistle,  Timothy  was 
with  him.  And  he  shows  it  by  what  he  says : 
"  But  I  hope  in  the  Lord  Jesus  to  send  Timothy 
shortly  unto  you."  (Phil.  ii.  19.)  And  again, 
"  Him  I  hope  to  send  forthwith  so  soon  as  I  shall 
see  how  it  will  go  with  me."  For  he  was  loosed 
from  his  bonds  and  again  bound  after  he  had 
been  to  them.  But  if  he  saith,  "  Yea,  and  I  am  s 
offered  upon  the  sacrifice  and  service,  of  your 
faith,"  it  is  not  as  though  this  were  now  come  to 
pass,  but  as  much  as  to  say,  "  and  whenever  this 
takes  place  I  am  glad,"  raising  them  from  their 
dejection  at  his  bonds.  For  that  he  was  not 
about  to  die  at  that  time  is  plain  from  what  he 
saith:  "But  I  hope8  in  the  Lord  that  I  myself 
also  shall  come  shortly  unto  you."  (Phil.  ii.  24.) 
And  again,  "  And  having  this  confidence,  I  know 
that  I  shall  abide,  yea,  and  abide  with  you  all." 
2.  But  the  Philippians  had  sent  to  him  Epa- 
phroditus,  to  carry  him  money,  and  to  know  the 
things  concerning  him,  for  they  were  most  lov- 
ingly disposed  toward  him.  For  that  they  sent, 
hear   himself,  saying,  "  I    have  all  things,  and 

•  The  if  i>  OBilttd,  pcrhap.  in  order  K,  put  the  objection  in  ■ 


l82 


WORKS   OF   ST.    CHRYSOSTOM. 


abound ;  I  am  filled,  having  received  from  Epa- 
phroditus  the  things  that  came  from  you."  At 
the  same  time  they  sent  to  know  this.  For  that 
they  sent  also  to  know  this  he  shows  at  once 
in  the  beginning  of  the  epistle,  writing  of  his 
own  matters,  and  saying,  "  But  I  would  have 
you  know  that  the  things  which  happened  unto 
me  have  fallen  out  rather  unto  the  progress 
of  the  Gospel."  (Phil.  i.  12.)  And  again,  "I 
hope  to  send  Timothy  shortly  unto  you,  that  I 
also  may  be  of  good  comfort  when  I  know 
your  state."  This,  "  that  I  also,"  is  as  if  he 
meant,  "  as  you  for  full  assurance  sent  to  know 
the  things  concerning  me,  so  '  I  also,'  that  I 
may  be  of  good  comfort  when  I  know  the  things 
concerning  you."  Since  then  they  had  also  been 
a  long  time  without  sending1  (for  this  he  proves 
by  saying,  "  Now  at  length  you  have  revived 
your  thought  for  me")  (Phil.  iv.  10),  and  then 
they  heard  that  he  was  in  bonds  (Phil.  ii.  26)  ; 
for  if  they  heard  about  Epaphroditus,  that  he  was 
sick,  he  being  no  such  very  remarkable  person  as 
Paul  was,  much  more  did  they  hear  about  Paul, 
and  it  was  reasonable  that  they  should  be  dis- 
turbed ;  therefore,  in  the  opening  of  the  epistle 
he  offers  them  much  consolation  about  his  bonds, 
showing  that  they  should  not  merely  not  be  dis- 
turbed, but  even  rejoice.  Then  he  gives  them 
counsel  about  unanimity  and  humility,  teaching 
them  that  this  was  their  greatest  safety,  and  that 
so  they  could  easily  overcome  their  enemies. 
For  it  is  not  being  in  bonds  that  is  painful  to 
your  teachers,  but  their  disciples  not  being  of 
one  mind.  For  the  former  brings  even  further- 
ance to  the  Gospel,  but  the  latter  distracts. 

3.  So  then  after  admonishing  them  to  be  of 
one  mind,  and  showing  that  unanimity  comes  of 
humility,  and  then  aiming  a  shaft  at  those  Jews 
who  were  everywhere  corrupting  the  doctrine 
under  a  show  of  Christianity,  and  calling  them 
"dogs"  and  "evil  workers"  (Phil.  iii.  2),  and 
giving  admonition  to  keep  away  from  them,  and 
teaching  to  whom  it  is  right  to  attend,  and  dis- 
coursing at  length  on  moral  points,  and  bringing 
them  to  order,  and  recalling  them  to  themselves, 
by  saying,  "The  Lord  is  at  hand  "  (Phil.  iv.  5), 
he  makes  mention  also,  with  his  usual  wisdom, 
of  what  had  been  sent,  and  then  offers  them 
abundant  consolation.  But  he  appears  in  writ- 
ing to  be  doing  them  special  honor,  and  never 
in  any  place  writes  any  thing  of  reproof,  which 
is  a  proof  of  their  virtue,  in  that  they  gave  no 
occasion  to  their  teacher,  and  that  he  has  written 
to  them  not  in  the  way  of  rebuke,  but  through- 
out in  the  way  of  encouragement.  And  as  I 
said  also  at  first,  this  city  showed  great  readiness 
for  the  faith  ;  inasmuch  as  the  very  jailor,  (and 

you  know  it  is  a  business  full  of  all  wickedness,) 

1 

1  [The  altered  text  and  most  editions  add  "  but  had  then  done  it/'  j 
through  misunderstanding  of  the  rather  obscure  connection. — J.A.B.]  I 


at  once,  upon  one  miracle,  both  ran  to  them, 
and  was  baptized  with  all  his  house.  For  the 
miracle  that  took  place  he  saw  alone,  but  the 
gain  he  reaped  not  alone,  but  jointly  with  his 
wife  and  all  his  house.  Nay,  even  the  magis- 
trates who  scourged  him  seem  to  have  done  this 
rather  of  sudden  impulse  than  out  of  wickedness, 
both  from  their  sending  at  once  to  let  him  go, 
and  from  their  being  afterwards  afraid.  And  he 
bears  testimony  to  them  not  only  in  faith,  or  in 
perils,  but  also  in  well-doing,  where  he  says, 
"  That  even  in  the  beginning  of  the  Gospel,  ye 
sent  once  and  again  unto  my  need"  (Phil.  iv. 
15,  16),  when  no  one  else  did  so;  for  he  says, 
"  no  Church  had  fellowship  with  me  in  the  mat- 
ter of  giving  and  receiving " ;  and  that  their 
intermission  had  been  rather  from  lack  of  op- 
portunity than  from  choice,  saying,  "  Not  that 
ye  took  no  thought  for  me,  but  ye  lacked  oppor- 
tunity." (Phil.  iv.  10.)  Let  us  also,  knowing 
these  things,  and  having  so  many  patterns,  and 
the  love  that  he  bore  them  —  for  that  he  loved 
them  greatly  appears  in  his  saying,  "  For  I  have 
no  man  like  minded,  who  will  care  truly  for 
your  state  "  (Phil.  ii.  20)  ;  and  again,  "  Because 
I  have  you  in  my  heart,  and  in  my  bonds,"  — 
4.  let  us  also,  knowing  these  things,  show  our- 
selves worthy  of  such  examples,  by  being  ready 
to  suffer  for  Christ.2  But  now  the  persecution 
is  no  more.  So  then,  if  there  is  nothing  else, 
let  us  imitate  their  earnestness  in  well  doing, 
and  not  think,  if  we  have  given  once  or  twice, 
that  we  have  fulfilled  all.  For  we  must  do  this 
through  our  whole  life.  For  it  is  not  once  that 
we  have  to  please  God,  but  constantly.  The 
racer,  if,  after  running  even  ten  heats,  he  leave 
the  remaining  one  undone,  has  lost  all ;  and  we, 
if  we  begin  with  good  works,  and  afterward 
faint,  have  lost  all,  have  spoiled  all.  Listen  to 
that  profitable  admonition  that  saith,  "  Let  not 
mercy3  and  truth  forsake  thee."  (Prov.  iii.  3.) 
He  saith  not  do  so  once,  nor  the  second  time, 
nor  the  third,  nor  the  tenth,  nor  the  hundredth, 
but  continually :  "  let  them  not  forsake  thee." 
And  he  did  not  say,  Do  not  forsake  them,  but, 
"  Let  them  not  forsake  thee,"  showing  that  we- 
are  in  need  of  them,  and  not  they  of  us ;  an( 
teaching  us  that  we  ought  to  make  every  effoi 
to  keep  them  with  us.  And  "  bind  them,"  saifc= 
he,  "  about  thy  neck."  For  as  the  children  0  " 
the  wealthy  have  an  ornament  of  gold  abou 
their  neck,  and  never  put  it  off,  because  it  ex  — 
hibits  a  token  of  their  high  birth,  so  should  w^m 
too  wear  mercy  ever  about  us,  showing  that  w^« 
are  children  of  the  compassionate  one,  "  wh^^i 


*  [Such  a  digressive  and  awkward  sentence  is  of  course  smoothe-  *■ 
out  in  the  altered  text,  but  is  perfectly  natural  in  a  freely  spoke  ~^ 
discourse.  —  J.  A.  B.] 

*  The  same  word  is  here  used  for  "  mercy  "  and  "  alms."     f  Ai»    ^ 
it  is  quoted  from  the  Sept.  in  the  plural,  "mercies,"  or  "all 
givings."  —  J.  A.  B.] 


INTRODUCTORY    DISCOURSE. 


183 


makes  the  sun  to  rise  upon  the  evil  and  the 
good"  (Matt.  v.  45).  "But  the  unbelievers," 
you  say,  "  do  not  believe  it."  I  say  then,  hereby 
shall  they  believe,  if  we  do  these  works.  If  they 
see  that  we  take  pity  on  all,  and  are  enrolled 
under  Him  for  our  Teacher,  they  will  know  that 
it  is  in  imitation  of  Him  that  we  so  act.  For, 
"mercy,"  it  says,  "and  true  faith."1  He  well 
said  "true."  For  He  willeth  it  not  to  be  of 
rapine  or  fraud.  For  this  were  not  "  faith  " ; 
this  were  not  "  truth."  For  he  that  plundereth 
must  lie  and  forswear  himself.  So  do  not  thou, 
saith  he,  but  have  faith  with  thy  mercy. 

Let  us  put  on  this  ornament.     Let  us  make  a 
golden  chain  for  our  soul,  of  mercy  I    mean, 
while  we  are  here.     For  if  this  age2  pass,  we 
can  use  it  no  longer.     And  why?    There  there 
are  no  poor,  There  there  are  no  riches,  no  more 
want  There.     While  we  are  children,  let  us  not 
rob  ourselves  of  this  ornament.     For  as  with 
children,  if  they  become  men,  these  are  taken 
away,  and  they  are  advanced  to  other  adorn- 
ment ;  so  too  is  it  with  us.     There  will  be  no 
more  alms  by  money,  but  other  and  far  nobler.8 
Let  us  not  then  deprive  ourselves  of  this  !     Let 
us  make  our  soul   appear  beautiful !     Great  is 
alms,  beautiful,   and   honorable,  great   is   that 
gift,  but  greater  is  goodness.     If  we   learn  to 
despise  riches,  we  shall  learn  other  things  be- 
sides.   For  behold  how  many  good  things  spring 
from  hence  !     He  that  giveth  alms,  as  he  ought 
to  give,  learns  to  despise  wealth.     He  that  has 
learned  to  despise  wealth  has  cut  up  the  root 
of  evils.    So  that  he  does  not  do  a  greater  good 
than  he  receives,  not  merely  in  that  there  is  a 
due  recompense   and   a  requital  for  alms,  but 
also  in  that  his  soul  becomes  philosophic,  and 
elevated,  and  rich.     He  that  gives  alms  is  in- 
structed not  to  admire  riches  or  gold.     And  this 
lesson  once  fixed  in  his  mind,  he  has  gotten  a 
great  step  toward  mounting  to  Heaven,  and  has 
cut  away  ten  thousand  occasions  of  strife,  and 
contention,  and   envy,  and  dejection.     For  ye 
know,  ye  too  know,  that  all  things  are  done  for 


*TheLXX.  have  "  faith,"  probably  in  the  sense  of  "truth," 
*™chAquila  has,  and  the  Hebrew  requires;  "true"  is  added  by 
*  Chrys.  to  mark  this. 

.  j^ucia,  which  carries  on  the  simile.     [He  means  the   age  of 
c"*«wd,  when  ornaments  are  a  pleasure.  —  J.  A.  B.] 

He  probably  refers  to  the  benefits  conferred  by  the  Saints  on 
«*ooearth. 


riches,  and  unnumbered  wars  are  made  for 
riches.  But  he  that  has  learned  to  despise 
them,  has  placed  himself  in  a  quiet  harbor,  he 
no  longer  fears  damage.  For  this  hath  alms 
taught  him.  He  no  longer  desires  what  is  his 
neighbor's ;  for  how  should  he,  that  parts  with 
his  own,  and  gives?  He  no  longer  envies  the 
rich  man ;  for  how  should  he,  that  is  willing  to 
become  poor?  He  clears  the  eye  of  his  soul. 
And  these  are  but  here.  But  hereafter  it  is 
not  to  be  told  what  blessings  he  shall  win.  He 
shall  not  abide  without  with  the  foolish  virgins, 
but  shall  enter  in  with  those  that  were  wise, 
together  with  the  Bridegroom,  having  his  lamps 
bright.  And  though  they  have  endured  hard- 
ship in  virginity,  he  that  hath  not  so  much  as 
tasted  these  hardships  shall  be  better  than  they. 
Such  is  the  power  of  Mercy.4  She  brings  in  her 
nurslings  with  much  boldness.  For  she  is  known 
to  the  porters  in  Heaven,  that  keep  the  gates  of 
the  Bride-Chamber,  and  not  known  only,  but 
reverenced  ;  and  those  whom  she  knows  to  have 
honored  her,  she  will  bring  in  with  much  bold- 
ness, and  none  will  gainsay,  but  all  make  room. 
For  if  she  brought  God  down  to  earth,  and  per- 
suaded him  to  become  man,  much  more  shall 
she  be  able  to  raise  a  man  to  Heaven  ;  for  great 
is  her  might.  If  then 5  from  mercy  and  loving- 
kindness  God  became  man,  and  He  persuaded 
Himself  to  become  a  servant,  much  rather  will 
He  bring  His  servants  into  His  own  house.  Her 
let  us  love,  on  her  let  us  set  our  affection,  not 
one  day,  nor  two,  but  all  our  life  long,  that  she 
may  acknowledge  us.  If  she  acknowledge  us, 
the  Lord  will  acknowledge  us  too.  If  she  dis- 
own us,  the  Lord  too  will  disown  us,  and  will 
say,  "  I  know  you  not."  But  may  it  not  be 
ours  to  hear-  this  voice,  but  that  happy  one 
instead,  "  Come,  ye  blessed  of  my  Father,  inherit 
the  kingdom  prepared  for  you  from  the  founda- 
tion of  the  world."  (Matt.  xxv.  34.)  Which  may 
we  all  obtain,  by  His  grace  and  lovingkindness, 
in  Christ  Jesus  our  Lord,  with  whom  to  the 
Father  and  the  Holy  Ghost,  be  glory,  strength, 
honor,  now  and  for  ever,  and  world  without 
end.     Amen. 

4  [The  same  Greek  word  that  above  is  translated  "alms."  — 
J.  A.  B.j 

5  Such  a  repetition  is  common  with  Chrysostom,  sometimes  per- 
haps from  his  own  excitement.  Here  it  seems  rather  meant  to 
temper  the  warmth  of  his  eloquence,  and  fix  a  sober  thought. 


HOMILY   I. 


Phiuppians  i.  I,  2. 


**  Paul  and  Timothy,  servants  of  Christ  Jesus,  to  all  the 
saints  in  Christ  Jesus  which  are  at  Philippi,  fellow- 
Bishops1  and  Deacons:  Grace  to  you,  and  peace, 
from  God  our  Father,  and  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ." 

Here,  as  writing  to  those  of  equal  honor,  he 
does  not  set  down  his  rank  of  Teacher,  but  an- 
other, and  that  a  great  one.  And  what  is  that? 
He  calls  himself  a  "  servant,"  and  not  an  Apos- 
tle. For  great  truly  is  this  rank  too,  and  the 
sum  of  all  good  things,  to  be  a  servant  of  Christ, 
and  not  merely  to  be  called  so.  "  The  servant 
of  Christ,"  this  is  truly  a  free  man  in  respect  to 
sin,  and  being  a  genuine  servant,  he  is  not  a  ser- 
vant to  any  other,  since  he  would  not  be  Christ's 
servant,  but  by  halves.  And  in  again  writing  to 
the  Romans  also,  he  says,  "  Paul,  a  servant  of 
Jesus  Christ."  (Rom.  i.  i.)  But  writing  to  the 
Corinthians  and  to  Timothy  he  calls  himself  an 
"  Apostle."  On  what  account  then  is  this?  Not 
because  they  were  superior  to  Timothy.  Far 
from  it.  But  rather  he  honors  them,  and  shows 
them  attention,  beyond  all  others  to  whom  he 
wrote.  For  he  also  bears  witness  to  great  virtue 
in  them.  For  besides,  there  indeed  he  was 
about  to  order  many  things,  and  therefore  as- 
sumed his  rank  as  an  Apostle.  But  here  he  gives 
them  no  injunctions  but  such  as  they  could  per- 
ceive of  themselves. 

"  To  the  saints  in  Christ  Jesus  which  are  at 
Philippi."  Since  it  was  likely  that  the  Jews 
too  would  call  themselves  "  saints "  from  the 
first  oracle,  when2  they  were  called  a  "holy 
people,  a  people  for  God's  own  possession " 
(Ex.  xix.  6  ;  Deut.  vii.  6,  etc.)  ;  for  this  reason 
he  added,  "to  the  saints  in  Christ  Jesus." 
For  these  alone  are  holy,  and  those  hence- 
forward profane.  "To  the  fellow-Bishops3  and 
Deacons."  What  is  this?  were  there  several 
Bishops  of  one  city?  Certainly  not;  but  he 
called  the  Presbyters  so.  For  then  they  still 
interchanged  the    titles,   and    the   Bishop   was 

1  E.  V.  "  with  the  bishops,"  reading  the  preposition  separately. 
[See  below  .J 

J  [Viz.  in  the  times  of  "the  first  oracle,"  i.e.  the  Old  Test. — 
J.  A.  B.] 

*  [A  good  many  late  manuscripts  of  N.  T.,  and  several  late 
Fathers,  read  with  Chrys.  <rvvtirt.<rKoiroi.s,  "  to  the  co-bishops";  but 
the  early  documents  and  modern  critics  give  avv  cirt<ric6iroif ,  "  with 
the  bishops,"  as  in  the  Eng.  versions.  —  J.  A.  B.] 

4  Aidxopof ,  usually  [translated]  in  E.  V.  "  Minister,"  when  thus 
used. 


called  a  Deacon.4  For  this  cause  in  writing  to 
Timothy,  he  said,  "Fulfil  thy  ministry,"  when 
he  was  a  Bishop.  For  that  he  was  a  Bishop 
appears  by  his  saying  to  him,  "  Lay  hands  hastily 
on  no  man."  (i  Tim.  v.  22.)  And  again,  "Which 
was  given  thee  with  the  laying  on  of  the  hands 
of  the  Presbytery."  (1  Tim.  iv.  14.)  Yet  Pres- 
byters would  not  have  laid  hands  on  a  Bishop. 
And  again,  in  writing  to  Titus,  he  says,  "  For 
this  cause  I  left  thee  in  Crete,  that  thou  should- 
est  appoint  elders '  in  every  city,  as  I  gave  thee 
charge.  If  any  man  is  blameless,  the  husband 
of  one  wife  "  (Tit.  i.  5,  6)  ;  which  he  says  of  the 
Bishop.6  And  after  saying  this,  he  adds  imme- 
diately, "  For  the  Bishop  must  be  blameless,  as 
God's  steward,  not  self  willed."  (Tit.  i.  7.)  So 
then,  as  I  said,  both  the  Presbyters  were  of  old 
called  Bishops  and  Deacons  of  Christ,  and  the 
Bishops  Presbyters ;  and  hence  even  now  many 
Bishops  write,  "To  my  fellow-Presbyter,"  and, 
"To  my  fellow-Deacon."  But  otherwise  the 
specific  name  is  distinctly  appropriated  to  each, 
the  Bishop  and  the  Presbyter.  "  To  the  fellow- 
Bishops,"  he  says,  "  and  Deacons, 

Ver.  2.  "  Grace  to  you  and  peace  from  God 
our  Father  and  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ." 

How  is  it  that  though  he  nowhere  else  writes 
to  the  Clergy,  not  in  Rome,  nor  in  Corinth,  nor 
in  Ephesus,  nor  anywhere,  but  in  general,  to 
"all  the  saints,  the  believers,  the  beloved,"  yet 
here  he  writes  to  the  Clergy?  Because  it  was 
they  that  sent,  and  bare  fruit,  and  it  was  they 
that  dispatched  Epaphroditus  to  him. 

Ver.  3.  "I  thank  my  God,"  he  says,  "upon 
all  my  remembrance  of  you." 

He  said  in  another  of  his  writings,  "Obey 
them  that  have  the  rule  over  you,  and  submit  to 
them  :  for  they  watch  in  behalf  of  your  souls,  as 
they  that  shall  give  account ;  that  they  may  do 
this  with  joy,  and  not  with  grief."  (Heb.  xiii.  1 7.) 
If  then  the  "  grief"  be  due  to  the  wickedness  of 
the  disciples,  the  doing  it "  with  joy  "  would  be  due 
to  their  advancement.  As  often  as  I  remember 
you,  I  glorify  God.  But  this  he  does  from  his 
being  conscious  of  many  good  things  in  them. 
I  both  glorify,  he  says,  and  pray.     I  do  not,  be- 

8  Or.  Presbyters. 

0  See  1  Tim.  iii.  a,  but  Chrys.'s  reason  for  taking  it  thus  is  ratber 
that  xard  noAiv  seems  to  imply  one  for  each  city. 


Homily  I.] 


HOMILIES   ON   PHILIPPIANS. 


1*5 


cause  ye  have  advanced  unto  virtue,  cease  pray- 
ing for  you.  But  "  I  thank  my  God,"  he  says, 
"upon  all  my  remembrance  of  you," 

Ver.  4.  "  Always  in  every  prayer  of  mine  for 
you  all  making  request  also  with  joy." 

"  Always," l  not  only  while  I  am  praying. 
"  With  joy."  For  it  is  possible  to  do  this  with 
grief  too,  as  when  he  says  elsewhere,  "  For  out 
of  much  affliction  and  anguish  of  heart  I  wrote 
unto  you  with  many  tears."     (2  Cor.  ii.  4.) 

Ver.  5.  "  For  your  fellowship  in  further- 
ance of  the  Gospel  from  the  first  day  even  until 


now. 

Great  is  that  he  here  witnesseth  of  them,  and 
very  great,  and  what  one  might  have  witnessed  of 
Apostles  and  Evangelists.     Ye  did  not,  because 
ye  were  entrusted  with  one  city,  he  saith,  care 
for  that  only,  but  ye  leave  nothing  undone  to  be 
sharers  of  my  labors,  being  everywhere  at  hand, 
and  working  with  me,  and  taking  part  in  my 
preaching.     It  is  not  once,  or  the  second,  or 
third  time,  but  always,  from  the  time  ye  believed 
until  now,  ye  have  assumed  the   readiness  of 
Apostles.     Behold  how  those  indeed  that  were 
in  Rome  turned  away  from  him ; 2  for  hear  him 
saying,  "  This  thou  knowest,  that  all  that  are  in 
Asia  turned  away   from   me."  (2  Tim.  i.  15.) 
And  again,  "  Demas  forsook  me":  and  "  at  my 
first  defence  no  one  took  my  part."   (2  Tim.  iv. 
10, 16.)     But  these,  although  absent,  shared  in 
his  tribulations,  both  sending  men  to  him,  and 
ministering  to   him  according   to  their  ability, 
and  leaving  out  nothing  at  all.     And  this  ye  do 
not  now  only,  saith  he,  but  always,  in  every  way 
assisting  me.     So   then  it  is  a  "  fellowship   in 
furtherance  of  the  Gospel."     For  when  one 
preacheth,  and  thou  waitest  on   the   preacher, 
thou  sharest   his   crowns.     Since   even   in   the 
contests   that    are   without,   the   crown    is  not 
only  for  him  that  striveth,  but  for  the  trainer, 
and  the  attendant,  and  all  that  help  to  pre- 
pare the    athlete.     For   they  that   strengthen 
Mm,  and  recover  him,  may  fairly  participate  »in 
his  victory.     And  in  wars  too,  not  only  he  that 
wins  the  prize  of  valor,  but  all  they  too  that 
attend  him,  may  fairly  claim  a   share   in   the 
trophies,  and  partake   of  the  glory,  as   having 
shared  in   his   conflict  by  their  attendance  on 
him.    For  it  availeth  not  a  little   to   wait   on 
saints,  but  very  much.     For  it  makes  us  sharers 
*n  the  rewards  that  are  laid  up  for  them.    Thus; 
suppose  some  one  hath  given  up  great  posses- 
sions for  God,  continually  devotes  himself  to 
God,  practices  great  virtue,  and  even  to  words, 
and  even  to  thoughts,  and  even  in   everything 
observes  extreme  strictness.     It  is  open  to  thee 
too,  even  without   showing  such   strictness,  to 

1  The  stop  might  be  after  "  always,"  but  that  is  harsh. 
1  This  was  at  a  later  period,     but  the  comparison  is  in  general 
teas. 


have  a  share  in  the  rewards  that  are  laid  up  for 
him  for  these  things.  How  ?  If  thou  aid  him 
both  in  word  and  deed.  If  thou  encourage 
him  both  by  supplying  his  needs,  and  by  doing 
him  every  possible  service.  For  then  the 
smoother  of  that  rugged  path  will  be  thyself. 
So  then  if  ye  admire  those  in  the  deserts  that 
have  adopted  the  angelic  life,  those  in  the 
churches  that  practice  the  same  virtues  with 
them  ;  if  ye  admire,  and  are  grieved  that  ye  are 
far  behind  them ;  ye  may,  in  another  way,  share 
with  them,  by  waiting  on  them,  and  aiding  them. 
For  indeed  this  too  is  of  God's  lovingkindness, 
to  bring  those  that  are  less  zealous,3  and  are  not 
able  to  undertake  the  hard  and  rugged  and  strict 
life,  to  bring,  I  say,  even  those,  by  another  way, 
into  the  same  rank  with  the  others.  And  this 
Paul  means  by  "  fellowship."  They  give  a  share 
to  us,  he  means,  in  carnal  things,  and  we  give  a 
share  to  them  in  spiritual  things.  For  if  God 
for  little  and  worthless  things  granteth  the  king- 
dom, His  servants  too,  for  little  and  material 
things,  give  a  share  in  spiritual  things :  or  rather 
it  is  He  that  giveth  both  the  one  and  the  other 
by  means  of  them.  Thou  can6t  not  fast,  nor  be 
alone,  nor  lie  on  the  ground,  nor  watch  all  night  ? 
Yet  mayest  thou  gain  the  reward  of  all  these 
things,  if  thou  go  about  the  matter  another  way, 
by  attending  on  him  that  laboreth  in  them,  and 
refreshing  and  anointing  him  constantly,  and 
lightening  the  pains  of  these  works.  He,  for  his 
part,  stands  fighting  and  taking  blows.  Do  thou 
wait  on  him  when  he  returns  from  the  combat, 
receive  him  in  thy  arms,  wipe  off  the  sweat,  and 
refresh  him  ;  comfort,  soothe,  restore  his  wearied 
soul.  If  we  will  but  minister  to  the  saints  with 
such  readiness,  we  shall  be  partakers  of  their 
rewards.  This  Christ  also  tells  us.  "  Make  lo 
yourselves  friends  by  means  of  the  mammon  of 
unrighteousness,  that  they  may  receive  you  into 
their  eternal  tabernacles."  (Luke  xvi.  9.)  Seest 
thou  that  they  are  become  sharers  ?  "  From 
the  first  day,"  he  says,  "  even  until  now."  And 
"  I  rejoice  "  not  only  for  what  is  past,  but  also 
for  the  future ;  for  from  the  past  I  guess  that 
too. 

Ver.  6.  "  Being  confident  of  this  very  thing, 
that  He  which  began  a  good  work  in  you  will 
perfect  it  until  the  day  of  Jesus  Christ." 

See  how  he  also  teaches  them  to  be  unassum- 
ing. For  since  he  had  witnessed  a  great  thing 
of  them,  that  they  may  not  feel  as  men  are  apt 
to  do,  he  presently  teaches  them  to  refer  both  the 
past  and  the  future  to  Christ.  How  ?  By  say- 
ing, not,  "  Being  confident  that  as  ye  began  ye 
will  also  finish,"  but  what?  "He  which  began 
a  good  work  in  you  will  perfect  it."  He  did  not 
rob  them  of  the  achievement,  (for  he  said,  "  I 

3  paflvfioTcpovf.  The  words  "  are  not  able"  seem  to  show  that 
this  is  here  used  of  natural  character. 


1 86 


WORKS   OF  ST.  CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  I. 


rejoice  for  your  fellowship,"  clearly  as  if  making 
it  their  act,)  nor  did  he  call  their  good  deeds 
solely  their  own,  but  primarily  of  God.  "  For  I 
am  confident,"  saith  he,  "  that  He  which  began 
a  good  work  in  you  will  perfect  it  until  the  day 
of  Jesus  Christ."  That  is,  God  will.  And  it  is 
not  about  yourselves,  he  implies,  but  about  those 
descending  from  you  that  I  feel  thus.  And  in- 
deed it  is  no  small  praise,  that  God  should  work 
in  one.  For  if  He  is  "  no  respecter  of  persons," 
as  indeed  He  is  none,  but  is  looking  to  our  pur- 
pose l  when  He  aids  us  in  good  deeds,  it  is  evi- 
dent that  we  are  agents  in  drawing  Him  to  us ; 
so  that  even  in  this  view  he  did  not  rob  them  of 
their  praise.  Since  if  His  inworking  were  indis- 
criminate, there  would  have  been  nothing  to 
hinder  but  that  even  Heathens  and  all  men 
might  have  Him  working  in  them,  that  is,  if  He 
moved  us  like  logs  and  stones,  and  required  not 
our  part.  So  that  in  saying  "  God  will  perfect 
it,"  this  also  again  is  made  their  praise,  who 
have  drawn  to  them  the  grace  of  God,  so  that 
He  aids  them  in  going  beyond  human  nature. 
And  in  another  way  also  a  praise,  as  that  "  such 
are  your  good  deeds  that  they  cannot  be  of  man, 
but  require  the  divine  impulse."  But  if  God 
will  perfect,  then  neither  shall  there  be  much 
labor,  but  it  is  right  to  be  of  good  courage,  for 
that  they  shall  easily  accomplish  all,  as  being 
assisted  by  Him. 

Ver.  7.  "  Even  as  it  is  right  for  me  to  be  thus 
minded  on  behalf  of  you  all,  because  I  have  you 
in  my  heart,  inasmuch  as  both  in  my  bonds,  and 
in  the  defence  and  confirmation  of  the  Gospel, 
ye  all  are  partakers  with  me  of  grace." 

Greatly  still  does  he  show  here  his  longing 
desire,  in  that  he  had  them  in  his  heart ;  and  in 
the  very  prison,  and  though  bound,  he  remem- 
bered the  Philippians.  And  it  is  not  a  little  to 
the  praise  of  these  men,  since  it  is  not  of  prejudice 
that  this  Saint  conceived  his  love,  but  of  judg- 
ment, and  right  reasons.  So  that  to  be  loved 
of  Paul  so  earnestly  is  a  proof  of  one's  being 
something  great  and  admirable.  "And  in  the 
defense,"2  he  says,  "and  confirmation  of  the 
Gospel."  And  what  wonder  if  he  had  them 
when  in  prison,  since  not  even  at  the  moment 
of  going  before  the  tribunal  to  make  my  defense, 
he  says,  did  ye  slip  from  my  memory.  For  so 
imperial  a  thing  is  spiritual  love,  that  it  gives 
way  to  no  season,  but  ever  keeps  hold  of  the 
soul  of  him  who  loves,  and  allows  no  trouble  or 
pain  to  overcome  that  soul.  For  as  in  the  case 
of  the  Babylonian  furnace,  when  so  vast  a  flame 
was  raised,  it  was  a  dew  to  those  blessed  Chil- 
dren.     So   too  does  friendship  occupying  the 


1  So  he  explains  Rom.  viii.  28,  where  "  His  "  is  not  in  the  Greek, 
though  rightly  (as  it  seems)  understood  by  St.  Augustine  and  others. 
See  on  Rom.  Horn.  xv.    Tr.  p.  453. 

*  airoAoyia. 


soul  of  one  who  loves,  and  who  pleases  God, 
shake  off  every  flame,  and  produce  a  marvelous 
dew. 

"  And  in  the  confirmation  of  the  Gospel,"  he 
says.  So  then  his  bonds  were  a  confirmation  of 
the  Gospel,  and  a  defense.  And  most  truly  so. 
How  ?  For  if  he  had  shunned  bonds,  he  might 
have  been  thought  a  deceiver ;  but  he  that  en- 
dures every  thing,  both  bonds  and  affliction, 
shows  that  he  suffers  this  for  no  human  reason, 
but  for  God,  who  rewards.  For  no  one  would 
have  been  willing  to  die,  or  to  incur  such  great 
risks,  no  one  would  have  chosen  to  come  into 
collision  with  such  a  king,3 1  mean  Nero,  unless 
he  looked  to  another  far  greater  King.  Truly  a 
"  confirmation  of  the  Gospel  "  were  his  bonds. 
See  how  he  more  than  succeeded  in  turning  all 
things  to  their  opposite.  For  what  they  sup- 
posed to  be  a  weakness  and  a  detraction,  that 
he  calls  a  confirmation ;  and  had  this  not  taken 
place,  there  had  been  a  weakness.  Then  he  shows 
that  his  love  was  not  of  prejudice,  but  of  judg- 
ment. Why?  I  have  you  (in  my  heart),  he 
says,  in  my  bonds,  and  in  my  defense,  because 
of  your  being  "  partakers  of  my  grace."  What 
is  this?  Was  this  the  "grace "  of  the  Apostle, 
to  be  bound,  to  be  driven  about,  to  suffer  ten 
thousand  evils  ?  Yes.  For  He  says,  "  My  grace 
is  sufficient  for  thee,  for  my  power  is  made  per- 
fect in  weakness."  (2  Cor.  xii.  9.)  "  Wherefore," 
saith  he,  "  I  take  pleasure  in  weaknesses,  in 
injuries."  Since  then  I  see  you  in  your  actions 
giving  proof  of  your  virtue,  and  being  partakers 
of  this  grace,  and  that  with  readiness,  I  reasona- 
bly suppose  thus  much.  For  I  that  have  had 
trial  of  you,  and  more  than  any  have  known  you, 
and  your  good  deeds ;  how  that  even  when  so 
distant  from  us,  ye  strive  not  to  be  wanting  to 
us  in  our  troubles,  but  to  partake  in  our  trials 
for  the  Gospel's  sake,  and  to  take  no  less  share 
than  myself,  who  am  engaged  in  the  combat,  far 
off  as  ye  are  ;  am  doing  but  justice  in  witnessing 
to  these  things. 

And  why  did  he  not  say  "  partakers,"  but 
"  partakers  with  me"4?  I  myself  too,  he  means, 
share  with  another,  that  I  may  be  a  partaker  of 
the  Gospel ;  that  is,  that  I  may  share  in  the  good 
things  laid  up  for  the  Gospel.6  And  the  wonder 
indeed  is,  that  they  were  all  so  minded  ;  for  he 
says  that  "ye  all  are  fellow-partakers  of  grace." 
From  these  beginnings,  then,  I  am  confident 
that  such  ye  will  be  even  to  the  end.  For  it 
cannot  be  that  so  bright  a  commencement  should 
be  quenched,  and  fail,  but  it  points  to6  great 
results. 


3  [The  Greek  word  for  "  king"  was  often  applied  to  the  Roman 
emperor  (i  Tim.  ii.  a;  i  Pet.  ii.  13).  —  J.  A.  B.J 

4  "  Or  fellow-partakers,"  avytcoivuvovs,  see    marginal    version 
[and  Rev.  Ver.  — J.  A.  B.J. 

6  The  word  may  be  here  used,  as  often,  for  the  "  preaching"  of 
the  Gospel.  6  al.  and  end  without  producing. 


Homily  I.] 


HQMILIES    ON    PHILIPPIANS. 


187 


Since  then  it  is  possible  also  in  other  ways !  to 
partake  of  grace,  and  of  trials,  and  of  tribula- 
tions, let  us  also,  I  beseech  you,  be  partakers. 
How  many  of  those  who  stand  here,  yea,  rather 
all,  would  fain  share  with  Paul  in  the  good  things 
to  come  !  It  is  in  your  power  if  ye  are  willing, 
on  behalf  of  those  who  have  succeeded  to  his 
ministry,  when  they  suffer  any  hardship  for 
Christ's  sake,  to  take  their  part  and  succor  them. 
Hast  thou  seen  thy  brother  in  trial  ?  Hold  out 
a  hand!  Hast  thou  seen  thy  teacher  in  con- 
flict? Stand  by  him  !  But,  says  one,  there  is 
no  one  like  Paul  1  now  for  disdain !  now  for 
criticism  !  So  there  is  no  one  like  Paul  ?  Well, 
I  grant  it.  But,  "  He  that  receiveth,"  saith  He, 
"a  prophet  in  the  name  of  a  prophet,  shall  re- 
ceive a  prophet's  reward."  (Matt.  x.  41.)  For 
was  it  for  this  that  these  were  honored,  that 
they  cooperated  with  Paul?  Not  for  this, 
but  because  they  cooperated  with  one  who  had 
undertaken  the  preaching.  Paul  was  honorable 
for  this,  that  he  suffered  these  things  for  Christ's 
sake. 

There  is  indeed  no  one  like  Paul.  No,  not 
even  but  a  little  approaching  to  that  blessed  one. 
But  the  preaching  is  the  same  as  it  was  then. 

And  not  only  in  his  bonds  did  they  have  fel- 
lowship with  him,  but  also  from  the  beginning. 
For  hear  him  saying,  "  And  ye  yourselves  also 
know,  ye  Philippians,  that  in  the  beginning  of 
the  Gospel,  no  Church  had  fellowship  with  me 
in  the  matter  of  giving  and  receiving,  but  ye 
only."  (Phil.  iv.  15.)  And  even  apart  from  trials, 
the  teacher  has  much  labor,  watching,  toiling  in 
the  word,  teaching,  complaints,  accusations,  im- 
putations, envyings.  Is  this  a  little  matter,  to 
hear  ten  thousand  tongues,  when  one  might  have 
but  one's  own  anxieties  ?  Alas  !  what  shall  I  do  ? 
for  I  am  in  a  strait  between  two  things.  I  long 
to  urge  you  on  and  encourage  you  to  the  alli- 
ance and  succor  of  the  saints  of  God ;  but  I 
fear  lest  some  one  should  suspect  another  thing, 
that  I  say  this  not  for  your  sakes,  but  for  theirs. 
But  know  that  it  is  not  for  their  sakes  I  say 
these  things,  but  for  your  own.  And  if  ye  are 
willing  to  attend,  I  convince  you  by  my  very 
w°rds;  the  gain  is  not  equal  to  you  and  to  them. 
F°[  ye,  if  ye  give,  will  give  those  things  from 
which,  willing  or  unwilling,  ye  must  soon  after 
W  and  give  place  to  others ;  but  what  thou 
receivest  is  great  and  far  more  abundant.  Or, 
ro  ye  not  so  disposed,  that  in  giving  ye  will  re- 
ceive? For  if  ye  are  not  so  disposed,  I  do  not 
fven  wish  you  to  give.  So  far  am  I  from  mak- 
mg  a  speech  for  them  !  Except  one  have  first 
jo  disposed  himself,  as  receiving  rather  than  giv- 
m&  as  gaining  ten  thousand  fold,  as  benefited 


.     c*7'**'  »n  oth«r  ways  than  by  actually  undergoing  the  trials; 
wtt  MTile  conjectures  «repo«,  "  with  others." 


rather  than  a  benefactor,  let  him  not  give.  If  as 
one  granting  a  favor  to  the  receiver,  let  him 
not  give.  For  this  is  not  so  much  my  care,  that 
the  saints  may  be  supported.  For  even  if  thou 
give  not,  another  will  give.  So  that  what  I  want 
is  this,  that  you  may  have  a  relief  from  your  own 
sins.  But  he  that  gives  not  so  will  have  no 
relief.  For  it  is  not  giving  that  is  doing  alms, 
but  the  doing  it  with  readiness;  the  rejoicing, 
the  feeling  grateful  to  him  that  receives.  For, 
"  not  grudgingly,"  saith  he,  "  or  of  necessity ; 
for  God  loveth  a  cheerful  giver."  (2  Cor. 
ix.  7.)  Except  then  one  so  give,  let  him  not 
give  :  for  that  is  loss,  not  alms.  If  then  ye  know 
that  ye  will  gain,  not  they,  know  that  your  gain 
becomes  greater.2  For  as  for  them  the  body  is 
fed,  but  your  soul  is  approved;  for  them,  not 
one  of  their  sins  is  forgiven  when  they  receive, 
but  for  you,  the  more  part  of  your  offenses  is 
removed.  Let  us  then  share  with  them  in  their 
great  prizes.8  When  men  adopt  kings  they  do 
not  think  they  give  more  than  they  receive. 
Adopt  thou  Christ,  and  thou  shalt  have  great 
security.  Wilt  thou  also  share  with  Paul  ?  Why 
do  I  say  Paul  when  it  is  Christ  that  receiveth  ? 

But  that  ye  may  know  that  all  is  for  your 
sakes  that  I  say  and  do,  and  not  of  care  for  the 
comfort  of  others,  if  there  is  any  of  the  rulers 
of  the  church  that  lives  in  abundance  and  wants 
nothing,  though  he  be  a  saint,  give  not,  but  pre- 
fer to  him  one  that  is  in  want,  though  he  be  not 
so  admirable.  And  wherefore?  Because  Christ 
too  so  willeth,  as  when  He  saith,  "  If  thou  make 
a  supper  or  a  dinner,  call  not  thy  friends,  neither 
thy  kinsmen,  but  the  maimed,  the  lame,  the 
blind,  that  cannot  recompense  thee."  (Luke 
xiv.  12.)  For  it  is  not  indiscriminately  that  one 
should  pay  such  attentions,  but  to  the  hungry, 
but  to  the  thirsty,  biff  to  those  who  need  cloth- 
ing, but  to  strangers,  but  to  those  who  from 
riches  have  been  reduced  to  poverty.4  For  He 
said  not  simply,  "  I  was  fed,"  but  '  I  was  an 
hungered,"  for,  "  Ye  saw  me  an  hungered,"  He 
says,  "  and  fed  me."  (Matt.  xxv.  35.)  Twofold 
is  the  claim,  both  that  he  is  a  saint  and  that  he  is 
hungry.  For  if  he  that  is  simply  hungry  ought 
to  be  fed,  much  more  when  he  is  a  saint  too 
that  is  hungry.  If  then  he  is  a  saint,  but  not 
in  need,  give  not ;  for  this  were  no  gain.  For 
neither  did  Christ  enjoin  it ;  or  rather,  neither  is 
he  a  saint5  that  is  in  abundance  and  receiveth. 
Seest  thou  that  it  is  not  for  filthy  lucre  that 
these  things  have  been  said  to  you,  but  for  your 
profit?    Feed  the  hungry,  that  thou  mayest  not 

*  i.e.  than  if  ye  did  not  acknowledge  this. 

3  al.  "  in  their  toils  in  order  that  we  may  share  also  in  their  great 
prizes." 

4  [This  last  clause  was  wanting  in  the  text  of  the  printed  editions 
earlier  than  the  Benedictine.  It  is  found  in  a  good  group  of  MSS. 
—  J.  A.  B.] 

a  There  is  a  MS.  di«course  of  St.  Macarius  on  the  danger  of 
monastic  life  in  a  town,  from  the  multitude  of  presents. 


1 88 


WORKS   OF  ST.   CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  II. 


feed  the  fire  of  hell.  He,  eating  of  what  is 
thine,  sanctifies  also  what  remains.  (Luke  xi. 
41.)  Think  how  the  widow  maintained  Elias; 
and  she  did  not  more  feed  than  she  was  fed : 

•  she  did  not  more  give  than  receive.  This  now 
also  takes  place  in  a  much  greater  thing.  For 
it  is  not  a  "barrel  of  meal,"  nor  "a  cruse  of 
oil"  (1  Kings  xvii.  14),  but  what?  "An  hun- 
dred fold,  and  eternal  life  "  (Matt.  xix.  21,  29), 
is  the  recompense  for  such  —  the  mercy  of 
God  thou  becomest ;  the  spiritual  food ;  a  pure 
leaven.  She  was  a  widow,  famine  was  pressing, 
and  none  of  these  things  hindered  her.  Chil- 
dren too  she  had,  and  not  even  so  was  she  with- 
held. (1  Kings  xvii.  12.)  This  woman  is  become 
equal  to  her  that  cast  in  the  two  mites.  She  said 
not  to  herself,  "  What  shall  I  receive  from  this 
man  ?  He  stands  in  need  of  me.  If  he  had  any 
power  he  had  not  hungered,  he  had  broken  the 
drought,  he  had  not  been  subject  to  like  suffer- 
ings.   Perchance  he  too  offends  God."    None  of 

.  these  things  did  she  think  of.  Seest  thou  how 
great  a  good  it  is  to  do  well  with  simplicity,  and 
not  to  be  over  curious  about  the  person  bene- 
fited ?  If  she  had  chosen  to  be  curious  she  would 
have  doubted ;  she  would  not  have  believed.  So, 
too,  Abraham,  if  he  had  chosen  to  be  curious, 
would  not  have  received  angels.  For  it  cannot, 
indeed  it  cannot  be,  that  one  who  is  exceeding 


nice  in  these  matters,  should  ever  meet  with 
them.  No,  such  an  one  usually  lights  on  im- 
postors ;  and  how  that  is,  I  will  tell  you.  The 
pious  man  is  not  desirous  to  appear  pious,  and 
does  not  clothe  himself  in  show,  and  is  likely  to 
be  rejected.  But  the  impostor,  as  he  makes  a 
business  of  it,  puts  on  a  deal  of  piety  that  is  hard 
to  see  through.  So  that  while  he  who  does  good, 
even  to  those  who  seem  not  pious,  will  fall  in 
with  those  who  are  so,  he  who  seeks  out  those 
who  are  thought  to  be  pious,  will  often  fall  in 
with  those  who  are  not  so.  Wherefore,  I  beseech 
you,  let  us  do  all  things  in  simplicity.  For  let 
us  even  suppose  that  he  is  an  impostor  that 
comes ;  you  are  not  bidden  to  be  curious  about 
this.  For,  "  Give,"  saith  he,  "  to  every  one 
that  asketh  thee"  (Luke  vi.  30)  ;  and,  "For- 
bear not  to  redeem  him  that  is  to  be  slain." 
(Prov.  xxiv.  11.)  Yet  most  of  those  that  are 
slain  suffer  this  for  some  evil  they  are  convicted 
of;  still  he  saith,  "  Forbear  not."  For  in  this 
shall  we  be  like  God,  thus  shall  we  be  admired, 
and  shall  obtain  those  immortal  blessings,  which 
may  we  all  be  thought  worthy  of,  through  the 
grace  and  lovingkindness  of  Jesus  Christ  our 
Lord,  with  whom,  to  the  Father,  together  with 
the  Holy  Spirit,  be  glory,  power,  honor,  now  and 
forever,  and  world  without  end.     Amen. 


HOMILY    II. 


Philippians  i.  8-1 1. 


"  For  God  is  my  witness,  how  I  long  after  you  all  in  the 
tender  mercies  of  Jesus  Christ.  And  this  I  pray, 
that  your  love  may  abound  yet  more  and  more  in 
knowledge  and  all  discernment;  that  ye  may  ap- 
prove the  things  that  are  excellent;  that  ye  may  be 
sincere  and  void  of  offense  unto  the  day  of  Christ; 
being  filled  with  the  fruits  of  righteousness,  which 
are  through  Jesus  Christ,  unto  the  glory  and  praise 
of  God." 

He  calls  not  God  to  witness  as  though  he 
should  be  doubted,  but  does  this  from  his  great 
affection,  and  his  exceeding  persuasion  and  con- 
fidence ;  for  after  saying  that  they  had  fellow- 
ship with  him,  he  adds  this  also,  "  in  the  tender 
mercies  of  Christ,"  lest  they  should  think  that 
his  longing  for  them  was  for  this  cause,  and  not 
simply  for  their  own  sake.  And  what  mean 
these  words,  "  in  the  tender  mercies  of  Christ  "  ? 
They  stand  for  "  according  to  Christ."  Because 
ye  are  believers,  because  ye  love  Christ,  because 
of  the  love  that  is  according  to  Christ.  He  does 
not  say  "  love,"  but  uses  a  still  warmer  expres- 


sion, "  the  tender  mercies  of  Christ,"  as  though 
he  had  said,  "  having  become  as  a  father  to  you 
through  the  relationship  which  is  in  Christ." 
For  this  imparts  to  us  bowels *  warm  and  glow- 
ing. For  He  gives  such  bowels  to  His  true 
servants.  "  In  these  bowels,"  saith  He,  as 
though  one  should  say,  "I  love  you  with  no 
natural  bowels,  but  with  warmer  ones,  namely, 
those  of  Christ."  "  How  I  long  after  you  all." 
I  long  after  all,  since  ye  are  all  of  this  nature ; 
I  am  unable  in  words  to  represent  to  you  my 
longing ;  it  is  therefore  impossible  to  tell.  For 
this  cause  I  leave  it  to  God,  whose  range  is  in 
the  heart,  to  know  this.  Now  had  he  been  flat- 
tering them,  he  would  not  have  called  God  to 
witness,  for  this  cannot  be  done  without  peril. 

Ver.  9.  "  And  this,"  saith  he,  "  I  pray,  that 
your  love  may  abound  yet  more  and  more." 
For  this  is  a  good  of  which  there  is  no  satiety ; 


1  [Above  translated  "  tender  mercies."  —  J.  A.  B.] 


Homily  II.] 


HOMILIES    ON   PHILIPPIANS. 


189 


for  see,  being  so  loved  he  wished  to  be  loved 
still  more,  for  he  who  loves  the  object  of  his 
love,  is  willing  to  stay  at  no  point  of  love,  for  it 
is  impossible  there  should  be  a  measure  of  so 
noble  a  thing.  Paul  desires  that  the  debt  of 
love  should  always  be  owing ;  "  Owe  no  man 
any  thing,  save  to  love  one  another."  (Rom. 
xiii.  8.)  The  measure  of  love  is,  to  stop  no- 
where ;  "  that  your  love,"  says  he,  "  may  abound 
yet  more  and  more."  Consider  the  character 
of  the  expression,  "  that  it  may  abound  yet 
more  and  more,"  he  says,  "  in  knowledge  and 
all  discernment."  He  does  not  extol  friendship 
merely,  nor  love  merely,  but  such  as  comes  of 
knowledge ;  that  is,  Ye  should  not  apply  the 
same  love  to  all :  for  this  comes  not  of  love, 
but  from  want  of  feeling.  What  means  he  by 
"  in  knowledge  "  ?  He  means,  with  judgment, 
with  reason,  with  discrimination.  There  are 
who  love  without  reason,  simply  and  any  how, 
whence  it  comes  that  such  friendships  are  weak. 
He  says,  "  in  knowledge  and  all  discernment, 
that  ye  may  approve  the  things  that  are  excel- 
lent/' that  is,  the  things  that  are  profitable. 
This  I  say  not  for  my  own  sake,  says  he,  but 
for  yours,  for  there  is  danger  lest  any  one  be 
spoiled  by  the  love  of  the  heretics ;  for  all  this 
he  hints  at,  and  see  how  he  brings  it  in.  Not 
for  my  own  sake,  says  he,  do  I  say  this,  but 
that  ye  may  be  sincere,  that  is,  that  ye  receive 
no  spurious  doctrine  under  the  pretence  of  love. 
How  then,  says  he,  "  If  it  be  possible,  live  peace- 
ably with  all  men  "  ?  "  Live  peaceably  "  (Rom. 
hi.  18),  he  says,  not,  Love  so  as  to  be  harmed  by 
that  friendship ;  for  he  says,  "  if  thy  right  eye 
causeth  thee  to  stumble,  pluck  it  out,  and  cast 
it  from  thee;  that  ye  may  be  sincere"  (Matt. 
v-  29),  that  is,  before  God,  "and  without  of- 
fence," that  is,  before  men,  for  many  men's 
friendships  are  often  a  hurt  to  them.  Even 
though  it  hurts  thee  not,  says  he,  still*  another 
may  stumble  thereat  "  Unto  the  day  of  Christ "  ; 
i-c.  that  ye  may  then  be  found  pure,  having 
caused  no  one  to  stumble. 

Ver.  11."  Being  filled  with  the  fruits  of  right- 
eousness which  are  through  Jesus  Christ  unto 
the  glory  and  praise  of  God ; "  i.e.  holding,  to- 
gether with  true  doctrine,  an  upright  life. 

And  not  merely  upright,  but  "  filled  with  the 
fruits  of  righteousness."  For  there  is  indeed 
a  righteousness  not  according  to  Christ,  as,  for 
example,  a  moral  life.  "Which  are  through 
Jesus  Christ  to  the  glory  and  praise  of  God." 
Seest  thou1  that  I  speak  not  of  mine  own 
glory,  but  the  righteousness  of  God  ;  and  often- 
times he  calls  mercy  itself  too  righteousness ; 
let  not  your   love,   he    says,   indirectly  injure 


'This  is  still  in  the  person  of  St.  Paul.    Of  this  use  of  the  word 
Righteousness,  see  on  Rom.  iii.  aa. 


you,  by  hindering  your  perception  of  things 
profitable,  and  take  heed  lest  you  fall  through 
your  love  to  any  one.  For  I  would  indeed  that 
your  love  should  be  increased,  but  not  so  that 
ye  should  be  injured  by  it.  And  I  would  not 
that  it  should  be  simply  of  prejudice,  but  upon 
proof  whether  I  speak  well  or  no.  He  says  not, 
that  ye  may  take  up  my  opinion,  but  that  ye 
may  "prove"  it.  He  does  not  say  outright, 
join  not  yourself  to  this  or  that  man,  but,  I  would 
that  your  love  should  have  respect  to  what  is 
profitable,  not  that  ye  should  be  void  of  under- 
standing. For  it  is  a  foolish  thing  if  ye  work 
not  righteousness  for  Christ's  sake  and  through 
Him.  Mark  the  words,  "  through  Him."  Does 
he  then  use  God  as  a  mere  assistant  ?  Away 
with  the  thought.  Not  that  I  may  receive  praise, 
says  he,  but  that  God  may  be  glorified. 

Ver.  12,  13.  "Now  I  would  have  you  know, 
brethren,  that  the  things  which  happened  unto 
me  have  fallen  out  rather  unto  the  progress  of 
the  Gospel,  so  that  my  bonds  became  manifest 
in  Christ  throughout  the  whole  praetorian  guard, 
and  to  all  the  rest" 

It  was  likely  they  would  grieve  when  they 
heard  he  was  in  bonds,  and  imagine  that  the 
preaching  was  at  a  stand.  What  then?  He 
straightway  destroys  this  suspicion.  And  this 
also  shows  his  affection,  that  he  declares  the 
things  which  had  happened  to  him,  because  they 
were  anxious.  What  say  you  ?  you  are  in  bonds  ! 
you  are  hindered  !  how  then  does  the  Gospel 
advance  ?  He  answers,  "  so  that  my  bonds  in 
Christ  became  manifest  in  all  the  praetorium." 
This  thing  not  only  did  not  silence  the  rest,  nor 
affright  them,  but  contrariwise  rather  encouraged 
them.  If  then  they  who  were  near  the  dangers 
were  not  only  nothing  hurt,  but  even  received 
greater  confidence,  much  more  should  you.  Had 
he  when  in  bonds  taken  it  hardly,  and  held  his 
peace,  it  were  probable  that  they  would  be 
affected  in  like  sort.  But  as  he  spoke  more 
boldly  when  in  bonds,  he  gave  them  more  con- 
fidence than  if  he  had  not  been  bound.  And 
how  have  his  bonds  "  turned  to  the  progress  of 
the  Gospel "  ?  So  God  in  His  dispensation 
ordered,  he  means,  that  my  bonds  were  not 
hid,  my  bonds  which  were  "  in  "  Christ,  which 
were  "  for  "  Christ. 

"  In  the  whole  praetorium."  For  up  to  that 
time  they  so  called  the  palace.51  And  in  the 
whole  city,8  says  he. 

Ver.  14.  "And  that  most  of  the  brethren  in 
the  Lord,  being  confident  through  my  bonds, 


*  0<urtAeuu  This  is  the  eastern  and  despotic  name;  the  other 
was  a  remnant  of  the  republic.  [The  Rev.  Ver.  understands  the  word 
praetorium  here  to  mean  the  praetorian  guard.  See  Light  foot  on  Phil. 
Others,  the  praetorian  barracks,  or  the  great  praetorian  camp;  but 
without  distinct  warrant  of  usage.  —  J.  A.  B.] 

3  [This  seems  to  be  Chrys.'s  interpretation,  or  recollection,  of  the 
Apostle's  phrase,  "  and  to  ail  the  rest."  — J.  A.  B.] 


190 


WORKS   OF   ST.    CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  II. 


are  more  abundantly  bold  to  speak  the  word 
without  fear." 

This  shows  that  they  were  of  good  courage 
even  before,  and  spoke  with  boldness,  but  much 
more  now.  If  others  then,  says  he,  are  of  good 
courage  through  my  bonds,  much  more  am  I ; 
if  I  am  the  cause  of  confidence  to  others,  much 
more  to  myself.  "  And  most  of  the  brethren  in 
the  Lord."  As  it  was  a  great  thing  to  say,  My 
bonds  gave  confidence  to  them,  he  therefore 
adds  beforehand,  "  in  the  Lord."  Do  you  see 
how,  even  when  he  sees  himself  constrained  to 
speak  great  things,  he  departs  not  from  moder- 
ation? "Are  more  abundantly  bold,"  he  says, "  to 
speak  the  word  without  fear  "  ;  the  words  "  more 
abundantly  "  show  that  they  had  already  begun. 

Ver.  15.  "  Some  indeed  preach  Christ  even  of 
envy  and  strife,  and  some  also  of  good  will." 

And  what  this  means  is  worth  enquiry.  Since 
Paul  was  under  restraint,  many  of  the  unbeliev- 
ers, willing  to  stir  up  more  vehemently  the  per- 
secution from  the  Emperor,  themselves  also 
preached  Christ,  in  order  that  the  Emperor's 
wrath  might  be  increased  at  the  spread  of  the 
Gospel,  and  all  his  anger  might  fall  on  the  head 
of  Paul.  From  my  bonds  then  two  lines  of 
action  have  sprung.  One  party  took  great  cour- 
age thereat ;  the  other,  from  hope  to  work  my 
destruction,  set  themselves  to  preach  Christ; 
"  some  of  them  through  envy,"  that  is,  envying 
my  reputation  and  constancy,  and  from  desire  of 
my  destruction,  and  the  spirit  of  strife,  work 
with  me ;  or  that  they  themselves  may  be  esteem- 
ed, and  from  the  expectation  that  they  will  draw 
to  themselves  somewhat  of  my  glory.  "  And  some 
also  of  good  will,"  that  is,  without  hypocrisy, 
with  all  earnestness. 

Ver.  16.  "The  one  proclaim  Christ  of  faction, 
not  sincerelv."  l 

That  is,  not  with  pure  motives,  nor  from  re- 
gard to  the  matter  itself;  but  why?  "thinking 
to  add  affliction  to  mv  bonds."  *  As  thev  think 
that  I  shall  thus  fall  into  greater  peril,  they  add 
affliction  to  affliction.  O  cruelty !  O  devilish 
instigation  !  They  saw  him  in  bonds,  and  cast 
into  prison,  and  still  they  envied  him.  They 
would  increase  his  calamities,  and  render  him 
subject  to  greater  anger :  well  said  he,  "  think- 
ing." for  it  did  not  so  turn  out.  They  thought 
indeed  to  grieve  me  by  this  ;  but  I  rejoiced  that 
the  Gospel  was  furthered. 

Ver.  1 7.  ••  But  the  other  of  love,  knowing  that 
I  am  set  for  the  defense  of  the  Gospel/' 

What  means,  *•  that  I  am  set  for  the  defense 


1  *TSr  order  of  Terv.  rf  and  1-  »  transposed  ia  Rec.  Ver..  upon 
Ok  asuSoritv  of  nearly  a£  the  uncial  MS>S..  nearly  all  the  aaciem 
vrruoos*  and  other  iwaats.  It  »  be«  here  to  leave  0>.m.'j 
«rdrr.  w>ich  is  that  of  the  Conuaoa  Ver..  be:  tSe  Trawlaaoa  of  Rev. 
Yes.  **  given  as  elsewhere.  —  1.  A.  B/ 

*  So  OSrrv**  te\t.  The  tree  text  »  vas  Re*.  Ver/  **  :  Sinking 
lor  star  a  are  bonis.    — J.  A.  Iv 


of  the  Gospel"?8  It  is,  They  are  preparing 
for4  the  account  which  I  must  give  to  God,  and 
assisting  me. 

What  is  meant  by  "  for  the  defense  "  ?  I  have 
been  appointed  to  preach,  I  must  give  account, 
and  answer  for  the  work  to  which  I  have  been 
appointed ;  they  assist  me,  that  my  defense  may 
be  easy ;  for  if  there  be  found  many  who  have 
been  instructed  and  have  believed,  my  defense 
will  be  easy.  So  it  is  possible  to  do  a  good  work, 
from  a  motive  which  is  not  good.  And  not  only 
is  there  no  reward  in  store  for  such  an  action, 
but  punishment.  For  as  they  preached  Christ 
from  a  desire  to  involve  the  preacher  of  Christ 
in  greater  perils,  not  only  shall  they  receive  no 
reward,  but  shall  be  subject  to  vengeance  and 
punishment.*  "And  some  of  love."  That  is, 
they  know  that  I  must  give  account  for  the  Gos- 
pel. 

Ver.  18.  "What  then?  only  that  every  way, 
whether  in  pretense,  or  in  truth,  Christ  is  pro- 
claimed." 

But  see  the  wisdom  of  the  Man.  He  did  not 
vehemently  accuse  them,  but  mentioned  the  re- 
sult ;  what  difference  does  it  make  to  me,  says 
he,  whether  it  be  done  in  this  or  that  way? 
only  that  every  way,  "  whether  in  pretense  or  in 
truth,  Christ  is  proclaimed."  He  did  not  say, 
"  Let  him  be  proclaimed,"  as  some  suppose, 
stating  that  he  opens  the  way  for  the  heresies, 
but,  "  He  is  proclaimed."*  For  in  the  first  place 
he  did  not  lay  down  the  law  and  say,  as  if  lay- 
ing down  the  law,  "  Let  Him  be  proclaimed," 
but  he  reported  what  was  taking  place ;  sec- 
ondly, if  he  even  spoke  as  laying  down  the  law, 
not  even  thus  would  he  be  opening  the  way  for 
the  heresies. 

For  let  us  examine  the  matter.  For  even  if 
he  gave  permission  to  preach  as  they  preached, 
not  even  thus  was  he  opening  the  way  for  the 
heresies.  How  so?  In  that  they  preached 
healthfully;  though  the  aim  and  purpose  on 
which  they  acted  was  corrupted,  still  the  preach- 
ing itself  was  not  changed,  and  they  were  forced 
so  to  preach.  And  why?  Because,  had  they 
preached  otherwise  than  as  Paul  preached,  had 
they  taught  otherwise  than  as  he  taught,  they 
would  not  have  increased  the  wrath  of  the  Em- 
peror. But  now  by  furthering  his  preaching,  by 
teaching  in  the  same  way,  and  making  disciples 
as  he  did,  they  had  power  to  exasperate  the  Em- 
peror, when  he  saw  the  multitude  of  the  disciples 


these 
at  of 


*p 


*  rje  takes**  the  Gospel* 
rag  of  the  Gospel.    Theodore* 
:Se  Gospel  among  ■*■« 

*  ^TSe  altered  text  has  * 
'  "The  ahetevi  text  pots 

-.1.  A.  rV 

'  l"Sas  sentence,  wanting  m  avQ 
plied  V  Head  *rx9  a  Cnn      It  crated-  fell 
ia  ooprtcg.  xhro«r>  siaailanre  to  the  Mill ■  if 


of  Sc  Paxil's  preach- 
bex&t  a  champion  of 

{.-— J.A.B.] 

16. 


jvuvvtg  iepetit»oa  »  cj-rte  ia 


ChrevN 


MSS.  of  Clays.,  is  sap- 
as  often  happened 

-.MLB.)  *"*" 


Homily  II.] 


HOMILIES   ON    PHILIPPIANS. 


191 


numerous.  But  then  some  wicked  and  senseless 
man,  taking  hold  of  this  passage,  says,  Verily 
they  would  have  done  the  contrary,  they  would 
have  driven  off  those  who  had  already  believed, 
instead  of  making  believers  to  abound,  had  they 
wished  to  annoy  him.  What  shall  we  answer? 
That  they  looked  to  this  thing  only,  how  they 
might  involve  him  in  present  danger,  and  leave 
him  no  escape ;  and  thus  they  thought  to  grieve 
him,  and  to  quench  the  Gospel,  rather  than  in 
the  other  way. 

By  that  other  course  they  would  have  extin- 
guished the  wrath  of  the  Emperor,  they  would 
have  let  him  go  at  large  and  preach  again  ;  but 
by  this  course  they  thought  that  because  of  him 
all  would  be  ruined,  could  they  but  destroy  him. ' 
The  many  however  could  not  have  this  intention, 
but  certain  bitter  men  alone. 

Then,  "  and  therein,"  says  he,  "  I  rejoice,  yea, 
and  will  rejoice."  What  means,  "  yea,  I  will 
rejoice  "  ?  Even  if  this  be  done  still  more,  he 
means.  For  they  cooperate  with  me  even  against  j 
their  will ;  and  will  receive  punishment  for  their 
toil,  whilst  I,  who  contributed  nothing  thereto, 
shall  receive  reward.  Is  there  anything  beyond 
this  villainy  of  the  Devil,  to  contrive  the  punish- 
ment of  the  preaching,  and  vengeance  for  the 
toils?  Seest  thou  with  how  many  evils  he 
pierces  through  his  own  !  How  else  would  a 
hater  and  an  enemy  of  their  salvation  have 
arranged  all  this?  Seest  thou  how  he  who  wages 
war  against  the  truth  has  no  power,  but  rather 
wounds  himself,  as  one  who  kicks  against  the 
goads? 

Ver.  19.  "  For  I  know,"  says  he,  "  that  this 
shall  turn  to  my  salvation  through  your  supplica- 
tion, and  the  supply  of  the  Spirit  of  Jesus 
Christ." 

Nothing  is  more  villainous  than  the  Devil.  So 
does  he  everywhere  involve  his  own  in  unprofit- 
able toils,  and  rends  them.  Not  only  does  he 
not  suffer  them  to  obtain  the  prizes,  but  he  even 
subjects  them  to  punishment. 

For  not  only  does  he  command  them  the 
preaching  of  the  Gospel,  but  likewise  fasting 
and  virginity,  in  such  sort  as  will  not  only  deprive 
them  of  their  reward,  but  will  bring  down  heavy 
evil  on  those  who  pursue  that  course.  Con- 
cerning whom  he  says  elsewhere,  also, "  Branded 
to  their  own  conscience  as  with  a  hot  iron." 
(1  Tim.  iv.  2.) 

Wherefore,  I 'beseech  you,  let  us  give  thanks 
to  God  for  all  things,  since  he  hath  both  light- 
ened our  toil,  and  increased  our  reward.  For 
snch  as  among  them  live  in  virginity  enjoy  not 
the  rewards,  which  they  do  who  among  us  live 
cnastely  in  wedlock;  but  they  who  live  as 
virgins  among  the  heretics  are  subject  to  the 
condemnation  of  the  fornicators.  All  this 
springs  from  their  not  acting  with  a  right  aim, 


but  as  accusing  God's  creatures,1  and  His  un- 
speakable Wisdom. 

Let  us  not  then  be  sluggish.  God  hath 
placed  before  us  contests  within  measure,  having 
no  toil.  Yet  let  us  not  despise  them  for  this. 
For  if  the  heretics  put  themselves  to  the  stretch 
in  unprofitable  toils,  what  excuse  shall  we  have 
if  we  will  not  endure  those  which  are  less,  and 
which  have  a  greater  reward?  For  which  of 
Christ's  ordinances  is  burdensome?  which  is 
grievous  ?  Art  thou  unable  to  live  a  virgin  life  ? 
Thou  art  permitted  to  marry.  Art  thou  unable 
to  strip  thyself  of  all  thou  hast?  Thou  art 
permitted  to  supply  the  needs  of  others  from 
what  thou  hast.  Let  "your  abundance  be  a 
supply  for  their  want."  (2  Cor.  viii.  14.) 
These  things  indeed  appear  burdensome.  What 
things  ?  I  mean  to  despise  money,  and  to  over- 
come the  desires  of  the  body.  But  His  other 
commands  require  no  cost,  no  violence.  For 
tell  me,  what  violence  is  there  in  speaking  no 
ill,  in  simply  abstaining  from  slander?2  What 
violence  is  there  in  envying  not  another  man's 
goods?  What  violence  in  not  being  led  away 
by  vain-glory?  To  be  tortured,  and  endure 
it,  is  the  part  of  strength.  The  exercise  of 
philosophy  is  the  part  of  strength.  To  bear 
poverty  through  life  is  the  part  of  strength.  It 
is  the  part  of  strength  to  wrestle  with  hunger 
and  thirst.  Where  none  of  these  things  are, 
but  where  you  may  enjoy  your  own,  as  becomes 
a  Christian,  without  envying  others,  what  vio- 
lence is  there  ? 

From  this  source  springs  envy;  nay,  rather 
all  evils  spring  from  no  other  source  than  this, 
that  we  cleave  to  things  present.  For  did  you 
hold  money  and  the  glory  of  this  world  to  be 
nought,  you  would  not  cast  an  evil  eye  on  its 
possessors.  But  since  you  gape  at  these  things, 
and  idolize  them,  and  are  flattered  by  them, 
for  this  reason  envy  troubles  you,  and  vain-glory ; 
it  all  springs  from  idolizing  the  things  of  the 
present  life.  Art  thou  envious  because  another 
man  is  rich?  Nay,  such  an  one  is  an  object 
for  pity  and  for  tears.  But  you  laugh  and  answer 
straight,  I  am  the  object  for  tears,  not  he! 
Thou  also  art  an  object  for  tears,  not  because 
thou  art  poor,  but  because  thou  thinkest  thyself 
wretched.  For  we  weep  for  those  who  have 
nothing  the  matter,  and  are  discontented,  not 
because  they  have  anything  the  matter,  but 
because,  without  having,  they  think  they  have. 
For  example  :  if  any  one,  cured  of  a  fever,  still 
is  restless  and  rolls  about,  lying  in  health  on  his 
bed,  is  he  not  more  to  be  wept  for  than  those  in 
fever,  not  that  he  has  a  fever,  for  he  has  none, 
but  because  having  no  sickness  he  still  thinks  he 
has?    And  thou   art  an   object   for  tears  just 

1  Sec  on  1  Tim.  iv.  Horn.  xii.  and  article  Manichces  in  indices. 
1  Or  "  in  keeping  from  needless  evil  speaking." 


192 


WORKS   OF   ST.    CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  II. 


because  thou  thinkest  thyself  wretched,  not  for 
thy  poverty.  For  thy  poverty  thou  art  to  be 
thought  happy. 

Why  enviest  thou  the  rich  man  ?  Is  it  because 
he  has  subjected  himself  to  many  cares?  to  a 
harder  slavery?  because  he  is  bound  like  a  dog, 
with  ten  thousand  chains  —  namely,  his  riches  ? 
Evening  overtakes  him,  night  overtakes  him,  but 
the  season  of  rest  is  to  him  a  time  of  trouble, 
of  anguish,  of  pain,  of  anxiety.  There  is  a  noise  : 
he  straightway  jumps  up.  Has  his  neighbor 
been  plundered?  He  who  has  lost  nothing 
cares  more  for  it  than  the  loser.  For  that  man 
has  lost  once,  but  having  endured  the  pain  he 
lays  aside  his  care  ;  but  the  other  has  it  always 
with  him.  Night  comes  on,  the  haven  of  our 
ills,  the  solace  of  our  woes,  the  medicine  of 
our  wounds.  For  they  who  are  weighed  down 
by  excess  of  grief,  often  give  no  ear  to  their 
friends,  to  their  relations,  to  their  intimates,  — 
ofttimes  not  even  to  a  father  when  he  would 
give  comfort,  but  take  their  very  words  amiss ; 
but  when  sleep  bids  them  rest,  none  has  the 
power  to  look  him  in  the  face.  For  worse 
than  any  burning  does  the  bitterness  of  grief 
afflict  our  souls.  And  as  the  body,  when 
parched  and  worn  down  by  struggling  against 
the  violence  of  the  sunbeams,  is  brought  to  a 
caravansary  with  many  fountains,  and  the  sooth- 
ing of  a  gentle  breeze,  so  does  night  hand  over 
our  soul  to  sleep.  Yea,  rather,  I  should  say, 
not  night  nor  sleep  does  this,  but  God,  who 
knoweth  our  toil-worn  race,  has  wrought  this, 
while  we  have  no  compassion  on  ourselves, 
but,  as  though  at  enmity  with  ourselves,  have 
devised  a  tyranny  more  powerful  than  natural 
want  of  rest  —  the  sleeplessness  which  comes  of 
wealth.  For  it  is  said,  "  The  anxieties  of  wealth 
drive  away  sleep."  (Ecclus.  xxxi.  1.)  See  how 
great  is  the  care  of  God.  But  He  hath  not  com- 
mitted rest  to  our  will,  nor  our  need  of  sleep  to 
choice,  but  hath  bound  it  up  in  the  necessities 
of  nature,  that  good  may  be  done  to  us  even 
against  our  wills.  For  to  sleep  is  of  nature.  But 
we,  as  mighty  haters  of  ourselves,  like  enemies 
and  persecutors  of  others,  have  devised  a 
tyranny  greater  than  this  necessity  of  nature, 
that,  namely,  which  comes  of  money.  Has  day 
dawned  ?  Then  such  an  one  is  in  dread  of  the 
informers.  Hath  night  overtaken  him?  He 
trembles  at  robbers.  Is  death  at  hand  ?  The 
thought  that  he  must  leave  his  goods  to  others 
preys  upon  him  worse  than  death.  Hath  he  a 
son?  His  desires  are  increased;  and  then  he 
fancies  himself  poor.  Has  he  none  ?  His  pains 
are  greater.  Deemest  thou  him  blessed  who  is 
unable  to  receive  pleasure  from  any  quarter? 
Can  you  envy  him  thus  tempest-tossed,  while 
you  yourself  are  placed  in  the  quiet  haven  of 
poverty?     Of  a  truth  this  is  the  imperfection  of 


human  nature ;  that  it  bears  not  its  good  nobly, 
but  casts  insults  on  its  very  prosperity. 

And  all  this  on  earth ;  but  when  we  depart 
thither,  listen  what  the  rich  man,  who  was  lord 
of  innumerable  goods,  as  you  say  (since  for  my 
part  I  call  not  these  things  good,  but  indiffer- 
ent), listen  to  what  this  lord  of  innumerable 
goods  says,  and  of  what  he  stands  in  need : 
"  Father  Abraham,"  he  exclaims,  "  send  Laz- 
arus, that  with  the  tip  of  his  finger  he  may 
drop  water  on  my  tongue,  for  I  am  scorched  in 
this  flame."  For  even  if  that  rich  man  had 
endured  none  of  the  things  I  have  mentioned, 
if  he  had  passed  his  whole  life  without  dread 
and  care  —  why  say  I  his  whole  life?  rather 
that  one  moment  (for  it  is  a  moment,  our  whole 
life  is  but  one  moment,  compared  with  that 
eternity  which  has  no  end)  —  if  all  things  had 
turned  out  according  to  his  desire ;  must  he 
not  be  pitied  for  these  words,  yea,  rather,  for 
this  state  of  things  ?  Was  not  your  table  once 
deluged  with  wine?  Now  you  are  not  master 
even  of  a  drop  of  water,  and  that,  too,  in  your 
greatest  need.  Did  not  you  neglect  that  poor 
man  full  of  sores  ?  But  now  you  ask  a  sight  of 
him,  and  no  one  gives  leave.  He  lay  at  your 
gate ;  but  now  in  Abraham's  bosom.  You  then 
lay  under  your  lofty  ceiling ;  but  now  in  the  fire 
of  hell. 

These  things  let  the  rich  men  hear.  Yea, 
rather  not  the  rich,  but  the  pitiless.  For  not  in 
that  he  was  rich  was  he  punished,  but  because 
he  showed  no  pity ;  for  it  is  possible  that  a  man 
who  is  at  the  same  time  rich  and  pitiful,  should 
meet  with  every  good.  And  for  this  cause  the 
rich  man's  eyes  were  fixed  on  no  one  else,  but 
on  him  alone,  who  then  begged  his  alms ;  that 
he  might  learn  from  memory  of  his  former 
actions,  that  his  punishment  was  just.  Were 
there  not  ten  thousand  poor  men  who  were 
righteous?  But  he,  who  then  lay  at  his  gate, 
alone  is  seen  by  him,  to  instruct  him  and  us, 
how  great  a  good  it  is  to  put  no  trust  in  riches. 
His  poverty  hindered  not  the  one  in  obtaining 
the  kingdom ;  his  riches  helped  not  the  other 
to  avoid  hell.  Where  is  the  point  at  which  a 
man  is  poor?  where  is  the  point  at  which  he  is 
reduced  to  beggary?1  He  is  not,  he  is  not 
poor,  who  has  nought,  but  he  who  desires  many 
things  !  He  is  not  rich  who  has  large  posses- 
sions, but  he  who  stands  in  need  of  nothing. 
For  what  profit  is  there  to  possess  the  whole 
world,  and  yet  live  in  greater  despondency  than 
he  who  has  nothing?  Their  dispositions  make 
men  rich  and  poor,  not  the  abundance  or  the 
want  of  money.  Would  you,  who  are  a  poor 
man,  become  rich?  You  may  have  your  will, 
and  no  one  can  hinder  you.    Despise  the  world's 

1  Or  "  Till  when  (lasts)  poverty?    Till  when  beggary? " 


Homily  III.] 


HOMILIES   ON   PHILIPPIANS. 


193 


wealth,  think  it  nought,  as  it  is  nought.  Cast 
out  the  desire  of  wealth,  and  you  are  straight- 
way rich.  He  is  rich  who  does  not  desire 
to  become  rich;  he  who  is  unwilling  to  be 
poor,  is  the  poor  man.  As  he  is  the  diseased 
man,1  who  even  in  health  bemoans  his  case,  and 
not  the  man  who  bears  his  disease  more  lightly 
than  perfect  health,  so  also  he  is  poor  who  can- 
not endure  poverty,  but  in  the  midst  of  wealth 
thinks  himself  poorer  than  the  poor;  not  he 
who  bears  his  poverty  more  lightly  than  they 
their  riches,  for  he  is  a  richer  man. 

For  tell  me,  wherefore  fearest  thou  poverty? 
wherefore  tremblest  thou  ?  is  it  not  by  reason  of 
hunger?  is  it  not  for  thirst?  is  it  not  for  cold? 
Is  it  not  indeed  for  these  things  ?  There  is  not, 
there  is  not  any  one  who  is  ever  destitute  in 
these  things  !  "  For  look  at  the  generations  of 
old,  and  see,  did  ever  any  one  trust  in  the 
Lord,  and  was  forsaken  ?  or  did  any  one  hope 
in  Him,  and  was  made  ashamed?"  (Ecclus. 
il  11.) 

And  again,  "  Behold  the  birds  of  the  heaven, 
that  they  sow  not,  neither  do  they  reap,  nor 
gather  into  barns;  and  your  heavenly  Father 
feedeth  them."  (Matt.  vi.  26.)  No  one  can 
readily  point  us  out  any  one  who  has  perished 
by  hunger  and  cold.  Wherefore  then  dost  thou 
tremble  at  poverty  ?  Thou  canst  not  say.  For 
if  thou  hast  necessaries  enough,  wherefore  dost 
thou  tremble  at  it?  Because  thou  hast  not  a 
multitude  of  servants?  This  truly  is  to  be  quit 
of  masters ;  this  is  continual  happiness,  this  is 
freedom  from  care.  Is  it  because  your  vessels, 
your  couches,  your  furniture  are  not  formed  of 
slver?  And  what  greater  enjoyment  than  thine 
has  he  who  possesses  these  things?  None  at 
all  The  use  is  the  same,  whether  they  are  of 
this  or  that  material.  Is  it  because  thou  art  not 
an  object  of  fear  to  the  many?  May  you  never 
become  so !  For  what  pleasure  is  it  that  any 
should  stand  in  dread  and  fear  of  thee  ?    Is  it 


because  thou  art  afraid  of  others?  But  thou 
canst  not  be  alarmed.  For  "wouldest  thou 
have  no  fear  of  the  power?  do  that  which  is 
good,  and  thou  shalt  have  praise  from  the  same." 
(Rom.  xiii.  3.)  Does  any  say,  It  is  because 
we  are  subject  to  contempt,  and  apt  to  suffer 
ill?  It  is  not  poverty  but  wickedness  which 
causes  this;  for  many  poor  men  have  quietly 
passed  through  life,  whilst  rulers,  and  the  rich, 
and  powerful,  have  ended  their  days  more 
wretchedly  than  all  evil  doers,  than  bandits, 
than  grave-robbers.  For  what  poverty  brings 
in  thy  case,  that  doth  wealth  in  theirs.  For  that 
which  they  who  would  ill-treat  thee  do  through 
thy  contemptible  estate,  they  do  to  him  from 
envy  and  the  evil  eye  they  cast  upon  him,  and 
the  latter  still  more  than  the  former,  for  this  is 
the  stronger  craving  to  ill-treat  another.  He 
who  envies  does  everything  with  all  his  might 
and  main,  while  the  despiser  ofttimes  has  even 
pity  on  the  despised  ;  and  his  very  poverty,  and 
utter  want  of  power,  has  often  been  the  cause 
of  his  deliverance. 

And  sometimes  by  saying  to  him,2  "  A  great 
deed  it  will  be  if  you  make  away  with  such  an 
one  !  If  you  slay  one  poor  man,  what  vast 
advantage  will  you  reap?"  we  may  thus  soften 
down  his  anger.  But  envy  sets  itself  against  the 
rich,  and  ceases  not  until  it  has  wrought  its 
will,  and  has  poured  forth  its  venom.  See  you, 
neither  poverty  nor  wealth  is  good  in  itself,  but 
our  own  disposition.  Let  us  bring  it  to  a  good 
tone,  let  us  discipline  it  in  true  wisdom.  If  this 
be  well  affected,  riches  cannot  cast  us  out  of 
the  kingdom,  poverty  will  not  make  us  come 
short.  But  we  shall  meekly  bear  our  poverty, 
and  receive  no  loss  in  respect  to  the  enjoyment 
of  future  goods,  nor  even  here  on  earth.  But 
we  shall  both  enjoy  what  is  good  on  earth,  and 
obtain  the  good  things  in  heaven,  which  may  we 
all  obtain,  through  the  grace  and  lovingkind- 
ness,  &c. 


HOMILY    III. 


Phiuppians  i.  18-20. 


*And  therein  I  rejoice,  yea,  and  will  rejoice.  For  I 
know  that  this  shall  turn  to  my  salvation  through 
your  supplication,  and  the  supply  of  the  Spirit  of 
Jesus  Christ,  according  to  my  earnest  expectation 
and  hope,  that  in  nothing  shall  I  be  put  to  shame, 
hut  that  with  all  boldness,  as  always,  so  now  also 
Christ  shall  be  magnified  in  my  body,  whether  by 
life,  or  by  death." 

None  of  the  grievous  things  which  are  in  this 
present  life  can  fix  their  fangs  upon  that  lofty 

Perhaps  alluding  to  the  sense  "  insane." 


soul,  which  is  truly  philosophic,  neither  enmity, 
nor  accusations,  nor  slanders,  nor  dangers,  nor 
plots.  It  flies  for  refuge  as  it  were  to  a  mighty 
fortress,  securely  defended  there  against  all  that 
attack  it  from  this  lower  earth.  Such  was  the 
soul  of  Paul ;  it  had  taken  possession  of  a  place 
higher  than  any  fortress,  the  seat  of  spiritual 
wisdom,  that  is,  true  philosophy.  For  that  of 
those  without,  i.e.  the  heathen,  is  mere  words, 

1  The  reading  is  doubtful,  but  the  sense  clear. 


194 


WORKS   OF   ST.   CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  III. 


and  childish  toys.  But  it  is  not  of  these  we 
now  speak,  but  at  present  concerning  the  things 
of  Paul.  That  blessed  one  had  both  the  Empe- 
ror for  his  enemy,  and  in  addition,  many  other 
foes  many  ways  afflicting  him,  even  with  bitter 
slander.  And  what  says  he?  Not  only  do  I 
not  grieve  nor  sink  beneath  these  things,  but 
"  I  even  rejoice,  yea,  and  will  rejoice,"  not  for  a 
season,  but  always  will  I  rejoice  for  these  things. 
"  For  I  know  that  this  shall  turn  out  to  my  sal- 
vation," that  which  is  to  come,  when  even  their 
enmity  and  jealousy  towards  me  further  the  Gos- 
pel. "Through  your  supplication,"  he  adds, 
"  and  the  supply  of  the  Spirit  of  Jesus  Christ, 
according  to  my  earnest  expectation  and  hope." 
Behold  the  humble-mindedness  of  this  blessed 
one  ;  he  was  striving  in  the  contest,  he  was  now 
close  to  his  crown,  he  had  done  ten  thousand 
exploits,  for  he  was  Paul,  and  what  can  one  add 
to  this?  still  he  writes  to  the  Philippians,  I  may 
be  saved  "  through  your  supplication,"  I  who 
have  gained  salvation  through  countless  achieve- 
ments. "  And  the  supply,"  saith  he,  "  of  the 
Spirit  of  Jesus  Christ."  It  is  as  though  he  said, 
if  I  am  thought  worthy  of  your  prayers,  I  shall 
also  be  thought  worthy  of  more  grace.  For  the 
meaning  of  "supply"  is  this,  if  the  Spirit  be 
supplied  to  me,  be  given  to  me  more  abun- 
dantly. Or  he  is  speaking  of  deliverance,  "  unto 
salvation  "  ;  that  is,  I  shall  also  escape  the  pres- 
ent as  I  did  the  former  danger.  Of  this  same 
matter  he  says,  "  At  my  first  defense  no  one 
took  my  part,  but  all  forsook  me ;  may  it  not 
be  laid  to  their  account.  But  the  Lord  stood 
by  me,  and  strengthened  me."  (2  Tim.  iv  16.) 
This  then  he  now  predicts :  "  Through  your 
supplication  and  the  supply  of  the  Spirit  of 
Jesus  Christ,  according  to  my  earnest  expecta- 
tion and  hope,"  for  thus  do  I  hope.  For  that 
he  may  persuade  us  not  to  leave  the  whole  mat- 
ter to  the  prayers  made  for  us,1  and  contribute 
nothing  ourselves,  behold  how  he  lays  down  his 
own  part,  which  is  Hope,  the  source  of  all  good, 
as  the  Prophet  says.  "  Let  thy  mercy,  O  Lord, 
be  upon  us,  according  as  we  have  hoped  in 
Thee."  (Ps.  xxxiii.  22.)  And  as  it  is  written  in 
another  place,  "  Look  to  the  generations  of  old 
and  see,  did  any  one  hope  in  the  Lord,  and  was 
made  ashamed?"  (Ecclus.  ii.  10.)  And  again, 
this  same  blessed  one  says,  "  Hope  putteth  not 
to  shame."  (Rom.  v.  5.)  This  is  Paul's  hope, 
the  hoping  that  I  shall  nowhere  be  put  to 
shame. 

"  According  to  my  earnest  expectation  and 
hope,"  says  he,  "  that  in  nothing  shall  I  be  put 
to  shame."  Do  you  see  how  great  a  thing  it  is 
to  hope  in  God  ?     Whatever  happens,  he  says, 

1  This  may  possibly  refer  especially  to  departed  Saints.  See 
Horn.  vi.  on  Stat.  fin.  [But  does  it  not  manifestly  mean  the  prayers 
which  others  now  living  make  for  us,  as  the  Philippians  then  did  for 
Paul?  — J.  A.  B.J 


I  shall  not  be  put  to  shame,  i.e.  they  will  not 
obtain  the  mastery  over  me,  "  but  with  all  bold- 
ness, as  always,  so  now  also,  Christ  shall  be 
magnified  in  my  body."  They  forsooth  ex- 
pected to  catch  Paul  in  this  snare,  and  to  quench 
the  preaching  of  the  Gospel,  as  though  their 
craftiness  were  of  any  power.  This  then,  he 
says,  shall  not  be  so,  I  shall  not  now  die,  but 
"  as  always,  so  now  also,  Christ  shall  be  magni- 
fied in  my  body."  How  so  ?  Ofttimes  have  I 
fallen  into  dangers,  when  all  men  gave  us  up, 
and  what  is  more,  when  I  myself  did.  For 
"  we  had  the  answer  of  death  within  ourselves  " 
(2  Cor.  i.  9),  but  from  all  the  Lord  delivered 
me,  so  now  too  he  shall  be  magnified  in  ray 
body.  What  then  ?  Lest  any  one  should  sup- 
pose and  say,  If  you  die,  will  He  not  then  be 
magnified  ?  Yes,  he  answers,  I  know  He  will ; 
for  this  cause  I  did  not  say  that  my  life  alone 
shall  magnify  him,  but  my  death  too.  At  pres- 
ent he  means  "  by  life  "  ;  they  will  not  destroy 
me ;  even  did  they  so,  Christ  will  even  thus  be 
magnified.  How  so?  Through  life,  because 
He  delivered  me,  but  through  my  death,  be- 
cause even  death  itself  could  not  persuade  me 
to  deny  Him,  since  He  gave  me  such  readiness, 
and  made  me  stronger  than  death.  On  the  one 
hand  because  He  freed  me  from  peril ;  on  the 
other,  because  He  suffered  me  not  to  fear  the 
tyranny  of  death :  thus  shall  he  be  magnified 
through  life  and  death.  And  this  he  says,  not 
as  though  he  were  about  to  die,  but  lest  on  his 
death  they  should  be  affected  as  men  are  apt 
to  be. 

But  that  you  may  know  these  his  words  did 
not  point  to  immediate  death,  the  thought  that 
pained  them  most,  see  how  he  relieves  it  by  almost 
saying,  These  things  I  say,  not  as  one  about  to 
die  ;  wherefore  he  soon  after  adds,  "  And  having 
this  confidence  I  know  that  I  shall  abide,  yea 
and  abide  with  you  all."  "In  nothing,"  says  he, 
"  shall  I  be  put  to  shame  "  ;  that  is,  death  brings 
no  shame  to  me,  but  rather  great  gain.  Why 
so?  Because  I  am  not  immortal,  but  I  shall 
shine  more  brightly  than  if  I  were  so,  for  it  is 
not  the  same  thing  for  one  immortal,  and  for 
one  who  is  mortal,  to  despise  death;  so  that 
not  even  instant  death  is  shame  to  me,  yet  shall 
I  not  die  ;  "  in  nothing  shall  I  be  put  to  shame," 
neither  in  life  nor  death.  For  I  will  bear  either 
nobly,  whether  life  or  death.  Well  says  he! 
This  is  the  part  of  a  Christian  soul !  but  he  adds, 
"  with  all  boldness."  Seest  thou  how  entirely  I 
am  freed  from  shame  ?  For  if  the  fear  of  death 
had  cut  short  my  boldness,  death  would  have 
been  worthy  of  shame,  but  if  death  at  its  ap- 
proach cast  no  terror  on  me,  no  shame  is  here ; 
but  whether  it  be  through  life  I  shall  not  be  put 
to  shame,  for  I  still  preach  the  Preaching,  or 
whether  it  be  through  death  I  shall  not  be  put 


Homily  HI.] 


HOMILIES   ON   PHILIPPIANS. 


195 


to  shame ;  fear  does  not  hold  me  back,  since  I 
still  exhibit  the  same  boldness.  Do  not,  when  I 
mention  my  bonds,  think  shame  of  the  matter ; 
so  manifold  good  hath  it  caused  to  me,  that  it 
hath  even  given  confidence  to  others.  For  that 
we  should  be  bound  for  Christ,  is  no  shame,  but 
for  fear  of  bonds  to  betray  aught  that  is  Christ's, 
this  is  shame.  When  there  is  no  such  thing, 
bonds  are  even  a  cause  of  boldness.  But  since 
I  have  ofttimes  escaped  dangers,  and  have  this 
to  boast  of  to  the  unbelievers,  do  not  straightway 
think  I  am  put  to  shame,  if  now  it  should  turn 
out  otherwise.  The  one  event  no  less  than  the 
other  gives  you  boldness.  Note  how  he  brings 
this  forward  in  his  own  person,  which  he  does 
in  many  places,  as  in  the  Epistle  to  the  Romans ; 
"For  I  am  not  ashamed  of  the  Gospel."  (Rom. 
i.  16.)  And  again  in  that  to  the  Corinthians ; 
"And  these  things  I  have  in  a  figure  transferred 
to  myself  and  Apollos."  (i  Cor.  iv.  6.)  — 
"Whether  by  life  or  by  death  "  :  this  he  says  not 
as  in  ignorance,  (for  he  knew  that  he  was  not 
then  to  die,  but  some  time  after) ;  yet  even  now 
does  he  prepare  their  soul. 

Ver.  21.  "For  to  me,"  he  says,  "to  live  is 
Christ,  and  to  die  is  gain." 

For  even  in  dying,  he  means,  I  shall  not  have 
died,  for  I  have  my  life  in  myself :  then  would 
they  truly  have  slain  me,  had  they  had  power 
through  this  fear  to  cast  faith  out  of  my  soul. 
But  as  long  as  Christ  is  with  me,  even  though 
death  overtake  me,  still  I  live,  and  in  this  pres- 
ent life,  not  this,  but  Christ  is  my  life.  Since, 
then,  not  even  in  the  present  life  is  it  so,  "  but 
•that  life  which  I  now  live  in  the  flesh  I  live  in 
kith;"  so  I  say  in  that  state  also,  "  I  live,  yet 
not  I,  but  Christ  liveth  in  me."  (Gal.  ii.  20.) 
Such  ought  a  Christian  to  be  !  I  live  not,  he 
says,  the  common  life.  How  livest  thou  then, 
0  blessed  Paul?  Dost  thou  not  see  the  sun, 
dost  thou  not  breathe  the  common  air?  art  thou 
not  nourished  with  the  same  food  as  others? 
dost  thou  not  tread  the  earth  as  we?  needest 
thou  not  sleep,  nor  clothing,  nor  shoes?  what 
meanest  thou  by,  "  I  live  not "  ?  how  dost  thou 
not  live?  Why  boastest  thou  thyself?  No  boast- 
ing is  here.  For  if  indeed  the  fact  did  not 
witness  to  him,  a  man  might  with  some  show 
nave  called  it  boasting ;  but  if  facts  do  wit- 
ness, how  is  boasting  here  ?  Let  us  then  learn 
now  he  lives  not,  for  he  himself  says  in  an- 
other place,  "  I  have  been  crucified  to  the 
world,  and  the  world  to  me."  (Gal.  vi.  14.) 
Hear  then  how  he  says,  "  I  no  longer  live." 
And  how  he  says, "  to  me  to  live  is  Christ"  The 
word  "  life  "  is  much  significant,  beloved,  as  also 
the  word  "  death."  There  is  this  life  of  the 
body,  there  is  the  life  of  sin,  as  he  himself  else- 
where says,  "  But  if  we  died  to  sin,  how  shall  we 
any  longer  live  therein?  "     (Rom.  vi.  2.)     It  is 


then  possible  to  live  the  life  of  sin.  Attend  dili- 
gently, I  entreat  you,  lest  my  labor  be  vatou 
There  is  the  life  everlasting  and  immortal ;  with 
eternal  life  the  heavenly;  "for  our  citizen- 
ship," says  he,  "  is  in  heaven."  (Phil.  iii.  20.) 
There  is  the  life  of  the  body  whereof  he  speaks, 
"  through  him  we  live  and  move  and  have  our 
being."  (Acts  xvii.  28.)  He  does  not  then  deny 
that  he  lives  the  natural  life,  but  that  of  sin, 
which  all  men  live.  He  who  desires  not  the 
present  life,  how  does  he  live  it?  He  who  is 
hastening  to  another,  how  does  he  live  this  life  ? 
He  who  despiseth  death,  how  does  he  live  this 
life  ?  He  who  desires  nothing,  how  does  he  live 
it?  For  as  one  made  of  adamant,  though  he 
were  struck  a  thousand  blows,  would  never  at- 
tend to  it,  no  more  would  Paul.  And  "  I  live," 
says  he,  "  but  no  longer  I,"  that  is,  no  longer  the 
old  man ;  as  again  elsewhere,  "  Wretched  man 
that  I  am,  who  shall  deliver  me  out  of  the  body 
of  this  death  ! "  (Rom.  vii.  24.)  How  too 
does  he  live  who  does  nought  for  the  sake  of 
food,  nought  for  the  sake  of  clothing,  nought  for 
any  of  these  present  things  ?  Such  an  one  does 
not  even  live  the  natural  life :  he  who  takes 
thought  for  none  of  the  things  which  sustain  life, 
lives  not.  We  live  this  life,  whose  every  action 
regards  it.  But  he  lived  not ;  he  busied  himself 
about  nought  of  the  things  here.  How  then 
lived  he  ?  Just  as  we  are  accustomed  to  say,  in 
common  matters,  such  an  one  is  not  with  me, 
when  he  does  nothing  that  pertains  to  me. 
Again,  in  like  sort,  such  a  man  lives  not  for  me. 
Elsewhere  he  shows  that  he  rejects  not  the  natu- 
ral life  :  "  The  life  which  I  now  live  in  the  flesh, 
I  live  in  the  faith  of  the  Son  of  God,  who  loved 
me,  and  gave  himself  for  me  "  (Gal.  ii.  20)  ; 
i.e.  a  certain  new  life  I  live,  an  altered  one. 
And  truly  all  these  things  he  said  to  comfort  the 
Philippians.  Think  not,  says  he,  that  I  shall  be 
deprived  of  this  life,  for  neither  whilst  alive  did 
I  live  this  life,  but  that  which  Christ  willed.  For 
tell  me  ?  He  who  despises  money,  luxury,  hun- 
ger, thirst,  dangers,  health,  safety,  does  he  live 
this  life  ?  He  who  has  nothing  here,  and  is  oft- 
times  willing  to  cast  life  away,  if  need  be,  and 
clings  not  to  it,  does  he  live  this  life  ?  By  no 
means.  This  I  must  make  clear  to  you  by  a 
kind  of  example.  Let  us  imagine  some  one  in 
great  wealth,  with  many  servants,  and  much 
gold,  and  who  makes  no  use  of  all  these  things  ; 
is  such  an  one  rich  for  all  his  wealth  ?  By  no 
means.  Let  him  see  his  children  dissipating  his 
property,  strolling  idly  about;  let  him  feel  no 
concern  for  them  ;  when  beaten  let  him  not  even 
be  pained  ;  shall  we  call  him  a  man  of  wealth  ? 
By  no  means ;  although  his  wealth  is  his  own. 
"To  me,"  he  says,  "  to  live  is  Christ;"  if  you 
will  enquire  of  my  life,  it  is  He.  "  And  to  die 
is  gain."     Wherefore?    Because  I  shall   more 


196 


WORKS   OF   ST.   CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  IIL 


clearly  be  present  with  Him ;  so  that  my  death 
is  rather  a  coming  to  life ;  they  who  kill  me  will 
work  on  me  no  dreadful  thing,  they  will  only  send 
me  onward  to  my  proper  life,  and  free  me  from 
that  which  is  not  mine.  What  then,  while  thou 
wert  here,  wert  thou  not  Christ's  ?  Yes,  and  in 
a  high  degree. 

Ver.  22.  "  But  if  to  live  in  the  flesh,  —  if  this 
is  the  fruit  of  my  work,  then  what  I  shall  choose 
I  wot  not." 

Lest  any  should  say,  If  what  you  say  is 
life,  wherefore  hath  Christ  left  you  here  ?  "  It 
is,"  he  says,  "  the  fruit  of  my  work ; "  so  that  it 
is  possible  to  use  to  good  purpose  the  present 
life,  while  not  living  it.  Lest  you  should  think 
that  reproach  is  cast  upon  life.  For  if  we  gain 
no  advantage  here,  wherefore  do  we  not  make 
away  with  ourselves,  nor  slay  ourselves  ?  By  no 
means,  he  answers.  It  is  open  to  us  to  profit 
even  here,  if  we  live  not  this,  but  another  life. 
But  perchance  one  will  say,  does  this  bear  thee 
fruit  ?  Yes !  he  answers.  Where  are  now  the 
heretics?  Behold  now;  "to  live  in  the  flesh," 
this  is  "  the  fruit  of  his  work."  "  That  which  I 
now  live  in  the  flesh,  I  live  in  faith  ;  "  therefore 
it  is  "  the  fruit  of  my  work." 

"  And  what  I  shall  choose  I  know  not"  Mar- 
velous !  How  great  was  his  philosophy  !  How 
hath  he  both  cast  out  the  desire  of  the  pres- 
ent life,  and  yet  thrown  no  reproach  upon  it ! 
For  in  that  he  saith,  "  to  die  is  gain,"  by  this 
he  hath  cast  out  the  desire,  but  in  that  he 
saith,  "  to  live  in  the  flesh  is  the  fruit  of  my 
work,"  here  he  shows  that  the  present  life  also  is 
needful,  if  we  use  it  as  need  is,  if  we  bear  fruit ; 
since  if  it'  be  unfruitful,  it  is  no  longer  life.  For 
we  despise  those  trees  which  bear  no  fruit,  as 
though  they  were  dry,  and  give  them  up  to  the 
fire.  Life  itself  belongs  to  that  middle  class  of 
indifferent  things,  whilst  to  live  well  or  ill  is  in 
ourselves.  We  do  not  then  hate  life,  for  we  may 
live  well  too.  So  even  if  we  use  it  ill,  we  do  not 
even  then  cast  the  blame  on  it.  And  wherefore  ? 
Because  not  itself,  but  the  free  choice  of  those 
who  use  it  ill  is  to  blame.  For  God  hath  made 
thee  live,  that  thou  mayest  live  to  Him.  But 
thou,  by  living  through  corruption  unto  sin, 
makest  thyself  accountable  for  all  blame.  What 
sayest  thou,  tell  me.  Thou  knowest  not  what  to 
choose?  Here  hath  he  revealed  a  great  mys- 
tery, in  that  his  departure  was  in  his  own  power ; 
for  where  choice  is,  there  have  we  power.  "  What 
I  shall  choose,"  says  he,  "  I  know  not."  Is  it  in 
thine  own  power?  Yes,  he  answers,  if  I  would 
ask  this  grace  of  God. 

Ver.  23.  "I  am  in  a  strait  betwixt  the  two, 
having  the  desire." 

See  the  affection  of  this  blessed  one ;  in  this 
way  too  he  comforts  them,  when  they  see  that 
he  is  master  of  his  own  choice,  and  that  this  is 


done  not  by  man's  sin,  but  by  the  dispensation 
of  God.  Why  mourn  ye,  says  he,  at  my  death  ? 
It  had  been  far  better  to  have  passed  away  long 
since.  "  For  to  depart,"  he  says,  "  and  to  be 
with  Christ,  is  very  far  better." 

Ver.  24.  "  Yet  to  abide  in  the  flesh  is  more 
needful  for  your  sake." 

These  words  were  to  prepare  them  for  his 
death  when  it  came,  that  they  might  bear  it 
nobly :  this  was  to  teach  true  wisdom.  "  It  is 
good  for  me  to  depart  and  be  with  Christ,"  for 
even  death  is  a  thing  indifferent;  since  death 
itself  is  no  ill,  but  to  be  punished  after  death  is 
an  ill.  Nor  is  death  a  good,  but  it  is  good  after 
our  departure  "  to  be  with  Christ."  What  fol- 
lows death  is  either  good  or  ill. 

Let  us  then  not  simply  grieve  for  the  dead, 
nor  joy  for  the  living  simply.  But  how?  Let 
us  grieve  for  sinners,  not  only  when  dying,  but 
also  while  living.  Let  us  joy  for  the  just,  not 
only  while  living,  but  also  when  dead.  For 
those  though  living  are  dead,  while  these  al- 
though dead,  yet  live :  those  even  while  here 
are  to  be  pitied  of  all,  because  they  are  at  en- 
mity with  God ;  the  other  even  when  they  have 
departed  Thither,  are  blessed,  because  they  are 
gone  to  Christ.  Sinners,  wherever  they  are,  are 
far  from  the  King.  Therefore  they  are  subjects 
for  tears ;  while  the  just,  be  they  here,  or  be  they 
there,  are  with  the  King ;  and  there,  in  a  higher 
and  nearer  degree,  not  through  an  entrance,1  or 
by  faith,  but  "  face  to  face."    (1  Cor.  xiii.  12.) 

Let  us  then  not  make  waitings  for  the  dead 
simply,  but  for  those  who  have  died  in  sins. 
They  deserve  wailing ;   they  deserve  beating  of 
the  breast  and  tears.     For  tell  me  what  hope  is 
there,  when  our  sins  accompany  us  Thither,  where 
there  is  no  putting  off  sins?    As  long  as  they 
were  here,  perchance  there  was  great  expecta- 
tion that  they  would  change,  that  they  would 
become  better;  but  when  they  are  gone  to 
Hades,  where  nought  can  be  gained  from  re- 
pentance (for  it  is  written,  "  In  Sheol  who  shall 
give  thee  thanks?")  (Ps.  vi.  5),  are  they  not 
worthy  of  our  lamentation?     Let  us  wail   for 
those  who  depart  hence  in  such   sort;   let  us 
wail,  I   hinder  you  not;   yet  in  no  unseemly 
way,  not  in  tearing  our  hair,  or  baring  our  arms, 
or  lacerating  our  face,  or  wearing  black  apparel, 
but  only  in  soul,  shedding  in  quiet  the  bitter 
tear.     For  we   may  weep   bitterly  without  alL 
that  display.     And  not  as  in  sport  only.     For 
the  laments  which  many  make  differ  not  from 
sport.     Those  public  mournings  do  not  proceed 
from  sympathy,  but  from  display,  from  emula- 
tion and  vainglory.     Many  women  do  this  as  of 
their  craft.  Weep  bitterly ;  moan  at  home,  when, 
no  one  sees  you ;  this  is  the  part  of  true  sym- 

1  fita  tlaoiov  Ben.  6ia  cifovt ,  "  through  a  figure,"  but  it  should 
probably  be  At'  iirtvrpov,  **  in  a  mirror,"  at  in  the  text  (x  Cor.  xiii.  it}« 


Homv  in.]  HOMILIES   ON   PHILIPPIANS.  197 

pathy ;  by  this  you  profit  yourself  too.     For  he  the  catechumens  are  not  thought  worthy  even 

who  laments  another  in  such  sort,  will  be  much  of  this   consolation,   but    are    deprived   of  all 

the  more  earnest  never  to  fall  into  the  same  means  of  help  save  one.   And  what  is  this  ?  We 

sins.   Sin  henceforth  will  be  an  object  of  dread  may  give  to  the  poor  on  their  behalf.     This 

to  thee.    Weep  for  the  unbelievers ;  weep  for  deed  in  a  certain  way  refreshes  them.    For  God 

those  who  differ  in  nowise   from   them,  those  wills  that  we  should  be  mutually  assisted ;  else 

who  depart   hence   without    the   illumination,1  why  hath  He  ordered  us  to  pray  for  peace  and 

without  the  seal !  they  indeed  deserve  our  wail-   the  good  estate  of  the  world  ?  why  on  behalf 

ing,  they  deserve  our  groans ;  they  are  outside  of  all  men  ?  since  in  this  number  are  included 

the  Palace,  with   the   culprits,   with   the  con-   robbers,  violaters  of  tombs,  thieves,  men  laden 

demned :  for,  "  Verily  I  say  unto  you,  Except  with  untold  crimes ;  and  yet  we  pray  on  behalf 

a  man  be   born  of  water  and  the  Spirit,  he  of  all ;  perchance  they  may  turn.    As  then  we 

shall  not  enter  into  the  kingdom  of  Heaven."   pray  for  those  living,  who  differ  not  from  the 

Mourn  for  those  who    have  •  died  in  wealth,  dead,  so  too  we  may  pray  for  them.   Job  offered 

and  did  not  from  their  wealth  think  of  any  sacrifice  for  his  children,  and  freed  them  from 

solace  for  their  soul,  who  had  power  to  wash   their  sins.     "  It  may  be,"  said  he,  "  that  they 

away  their  sins  and  would  not.    Let  us  all  weep   have  renounced   God  in  their  hearts."     (Job 

for  these  in  private  and  in  public,  but  with  pro-   i.  5.)    Thus  does  one  provide  for  one's  children  ! 

priety,  with  gravity,  not  so  as  to  make  exhibi-   He   said   not,  as   many  do    nowadays,   I  will 

tions  of  ourselves ;  let  us  weep  for  these,  not  leave  them  property ;  he  said  not,  I  will  procure 

one  day,  or  two,  but  all  our  life.    Such  tears  them  honor ;   he  said  not,  I  will  purchase  an 

spring  not  from  senseless  passion,  but  from  true  office ;  he  said  not,  I  will  buy  them  land  ;  but, 

affection.     The  other  sort  are  of  senseless  pas-   "  it  may  be  that  they  have  renounced  God  in 

sion.  For  this  cause  they  are  quickly  quenched,  their  hearts."  For  what  profit  is  there  in  those 

whereas  if  they  spring  from  the  fear  of  God,  they  things  ?    None  at  all,  in  those  that  remain  here. 

always  abide  with  us.     Let  us  weep  for  these ;   I  will  make  the  King  of  all  things  favorable  to 

let  us  assist  them  according  to  our  power ;  let  them,  and   then  they  will  no  more  want  any 

us  think  of  some  assistance   for  them,  small  thing.  "The  Lord,"  saith  one,  "is  my  Shepherd, 

though  it  be,  yet  still  let  us  assist  them.     How  I  shall  not  want."    (Ps.  xxiii.  4.)    This  is  great 

and  in  what  way?    By  praying  and  entreating  wealth,  this  is  treasure.    If  we   have  the  fear 

others  to  make  prayers  for  them,  by  continu-  of  God,  we  want  nothing ;  if  we  have  not  this, 

ally  giving  to  the  poor  on  their  behalf.     This  though  we  have  royalty  itself,  we  are  the  poorest 

deed  hath  some  consolation ;  for  hear  the  words  of  all  men.  Nothing  is  like  the  man  that  feareth 

of  God  Himself,  when  He  says,  "  I  will  defend   the  Lord.    For  "  the  fear  of  the  Lord,"  it  is 

this  city  for  Mine  own  sake,  and  for  My  servant  said,  "  surpasseth  all  things."   (Ecclus.  xxv.  11.) 

David's  sake."  (2  Kings  xx.  6.)    If  the  remem-  This  let  us  procure ;  let  us  do  all  things  for  its 

brance  only  of  a  just  man  had  so  great  power  sake.    If  need  be  that  we  lay  down  our  lives, 

when  deeds  are  done  for  one,  how  great  power  if  our  body  must  be  mangled,  let  us  not  spare 

will  it  not  have?    Not  in  vain  did  the  Apostles  them;  let  us  do  all,  to  obtain  this  fear.     For 

order2  that  remembrance  should   be  made  of  thus  shall  we  abound  above  all  men;  and  shall 

tfce  dead  in  the  dreadful  Mysteries.    They  know  obtain  those  good   things  to  come   in  Christ 

that  great  gain  resulteth  to  them,  great  benefit;  Jesus  our  Lord,  to  whom,  &c. 

for  when  the  whole  people  stands  with  uplifted  

hands,  a  priestly  assembly,  and  that  awful  Sacri- 

fice  lies  displayed,  how  shall  we  not  prevail  with  E^pES;  ±£l  -rtod^uTof  JL^A  WnPX 

God  by  OUr  entreaties   for   them?     And   this  We  death  that  might  be  won  by  an  act  of  mercy.  Cpmp.  S.  Ambr.  de  ob. 

jr'.  .        .  ,  1   •      /•  •,.!    *      i_»i  *.  Theod.  9  37.    Tert.  de  Corona,  c.  m.  speaks  of  oblations  for  the  de- 

QO  tor  those  Who  have  departed  in  faith,9  Whilst  ceased  as  a  general  tradition  in  hi*  time.    St.  Cyprian,  Ep.  66,  for- 

■ — — —  bids  Eucharistic  prayer  for  one  who  makes  a  clergyman  his  execu- 

l(A  common  expression  among  the  Fathers   for   baptism. —  tor.    Euseb.  Vit.  Const,  iv.  71,  speaks  of  Constantine  sharing  in  the 

J.  A.  BJ  prayers  of  the  Faithful  in  connection  with  his  burial  near  the  relics 

1  [The  reference  doubtless  is  to  the  so-called  "  Apostolical  Consti-  of  the  Apostles.    He  does  not  directly  mention  this  as  depending  on 

Mitts,"  which  direct  the  observance  of  the  Eucharist  in  commemo-  his  "  Baptism,"  but  the  terms  of  the  Eucharistic  prayer  seem  to  have 

"Swnof  the  departed.    See  Smith's  Diet.  Chr.  Antiq.,  pp.  1436  f. —  marked  this,  and  it  is  implied  in  the  rule  given  by  St.  Cyprian,  and 

J.  A.  B.]  the  whole  principle  of  that  commemoration  stated  in  the  passage 

'  Set  Hon*  vi.  on  the  Statues,  Tr.  p.  387,  note  6;  also  on  1  Cor.  cited  of  St.  Chrys.  on  1  Cor.  xv. 


198 


WORKS   OF   ST.   CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily 


HOMILY    IV 


Phiuppians  i.  22-26. 


44  Then  what  I  shall  choose  I  wot  not  But  I  am  in  a 
strait  betwixt  the  two,  having  the  desire  to  depart 
and  be  with  Christ;  which  is  very  far  better:  yet 
to  abide  in  the  flesh  is  more  needful  for  your  sake. 
And  having  this  confidence,  I  know  that  I  shall 
abide,  yea  and  abide  with  you  all,  for  your  progress 
and  joy  in  the  faith ;  that  your  glorying  may  abound 
in  Jesus  Christ  in  me,  through  my  presence  with  you 
again." 

Nothing  can  be  more  blessed  than  the  spirit 
of  Paul,  for  the  reason  that  nothing  is  more 
noble.  We  all  shudder  at  death,  I  am  wont  to 
say,  some  by  reason  of  our  many  sins,  of  whom 
I  too  am  one,  others  from  love  of  life,  and 
cowardice,  of  whom  may  I  never  be  one ;  for 
they  who  are  subject  to  this  fear  are  mere 
animals.  This  then,  which  we  all  shudder  at,  he 
prayed  for,  and  hasted  toward  Him ;  saying, 
"To  depart  is  very  far  better."  What  sayest 
thou?  when  thou  art  about  to  change  from  earth 
to  heaven,  and  to  be  with  Christ,  dost  thou  not 
know  what  to  choose  ?  Nay,  far  is  this  from  the 
spirit  of  Paul ;  for  if  such  an  offer  were  made  to 
any  one  on  sure  grounds,  would  he  not  straight- 
way seize  it?  Yes,  for  as  it  is  not  ours  "  to 
depart  and  be  with  Christ,"  neither,  if  we  were 
able  to  attain  to  this,  were  it  ours  to  remain 
here.  Both  are  of  Paul,  and  of  his  spirit.  He 
was  confidently  persuaded.  What?  Art  thou 
about  to  be  with  Christ?  and  dost  thou  say, 
"  What  I  shall  choose  I  wot  not  "  ?  and  not  this 
only,  but  dost  thou  choose  that  which  is  here, 
"  to  abide  in  the  flesh  "  ?  What  in  the  world  ? 
didst  thou  not  live  an  exceeding  bitter  life,  in 
"  watchings,"  in  shipwrecks,  in  "  hunger  and 
thirst,"  and  "  nakedness,"  in  cares  and  anxiety? 
"with  the  weak"  thou  wert  "weak,"  and  for 
those  who  "  were  made  to  stumble  "  thou  dost 
"burn."  (2  Cor.  xi.  23,  29.)  "In  much 
patience,  in  afflictions,  in  necessities,  in  dis- 
tresses, in  stripes,  in  imprisonments,  in  tumults, 
in  fastings,  in  pureness."  (2  Cor.  vi.  5,  6.) 
"  Five  times  "  didst  thou  "  receive  forty  stripes 
save  one,"  "  thrice  "  wast  thou  "  beaten  with 
rods,  once  "  wast  thou  "  stoned,"  "  a  night  and 
a  day  "  thou  hast  "  been  in  the  deep,  in  perils  of 
waters,  in  perils  of  robbers,  in  perils  in  the  city, 
in  perils  in  the  wilderness,  in  perils  among  false 
brethren."  (2  Cor.  xi.  24-26.)  Didst  thou  not, 
when  the  whole  nation  of  the  Galatians  returned 
to  the  observance  of  the  law,  didst  thou  not 
cry  aloud,  and  say,  "  Whosoever  of  you  would 
be  justified  by  the  law,  ye  are  fallen  away  from 
grace"?     (Gal.  v.  4.)      How  great  was   then 


thy  grief,  and  still  dost  thou  desire  this  per 
ing  life?  Had  none  of  these  things  befa 
thee,  but  had  thy  success,  wherever  sua 
attended  thee,  been  without  fear,  and  full 
delight,  yet  shouldest  not  thou  hasten  to  sc 
harbor,  from  fear  of  the  uncertain  future  ? 
tell  me,  what  trader,  whose  vessel  is  full 
untold  wealth,  when  he  may  run  into  port, 
be  at  rest,  would  prefer  to  be  still  at  sea  ?  * 
wrestler,  when  he  might  be  crowned,  wc 
prefer  to  contend  ?  what  boxer,  when  he  m 
put  on  his  crown,  would  choose  to  enter  afi 
into  the  contest,  and  offer  his  head  to  wouc 
what  general  is  there,  who  when  he  might 
quit  of  war  with  good  report,  and  trophies, 
might  with  the  king  refresh  himself  in  the  pal 
would  choose  still  to  toil,  and  to  stand  in  ba 
array?  How  then  dost  thou,  who  livest  a  lifi 
exceeding  bitter,  wish  to  remain  still  he 
Didst  thou  not  say,  I  am  in  dread, "  lest  by 
means,  after  that  I  have  preached  to  othei 
myself  should  be  rejected?"  (1  Cor.  ix.  : 
If  for  no  other  cause,  yet  surely  for  this,  t 
oughtest  to  desire  thy  release ;  were  the  prej 
full  of  innumerable  goods,  yet  for  the  sake 
Christ  thy  Desire.1 

Oh  that  spirit  of  Paul !  nothing  was  ever 
it,  nor  ever  will  be !  Thou  fearest  the  fut 
thou  art  compassed  by  innumerable  drea< 
things,  and  wilt  thou  not  be  with  Christ? 
he  answers,  and  this  for  Christ's  sake,  that  1 1 
render  more  loving  unto  Him  those  whor 
have  made  his  servants,  that  I  may  make 
plot2  which  I  have  planted  bear  much  fi 
(1  Cor.  iii.  9).  Didst  thou  not  hear  me,  w 
I  declared  that  I  sought  not  "that  wl 
profited  myself"  (1  Cor.  x.33),  but  my  nei 
bor  ?  Heardest  thou  not  these  words,  "  I  cc 
wish  that  I  myself  were  anathema  from  Chri 
(Rom.  ix.  3),  that  many  might  come  unto  H 
I,  who  chose  that  part,  shall  I  not  much  raJ 
choose  this,  shall  I  not  with  pleasure  harm  1 
self  by  this  delay  and  postponement,  that  t 
mav  be  saved? 

"  Who  shall  utter  Thy  mighty  acts,  O  Lo: 
(Psa.  cvi.  2),  because  Thou  sufferedst  not  I 
to  be  hidden,  because  Thou  madest  manifes 
the  world  such  a  man  ?    All  the  Angels  of  ( 


1  [The  editions  in  Greek,  and  the  Latin  translations,  wi 
support  from  any  known  Greek  MS.,  here  repeat,  ••thou  ought* 
desire  thy  release  from  these  things."  Field  retains  it  as  if  neces 
Yet  it  is  not  necessary,  and  is  in  character  quite  similar  to  the 
110ns  which  are  so  common  in  the  altered  text. — J.  A.  B.J 

*  ytutpyiov. 


Homily  IV.] 


HOMILIES   ON   PHILIPPIANS. 


199 


praised  Thee    with  one    accord,  when   Thou 
madest  the  stars  (Job  xxxviii.  7),  and  so  too 
surely  when  Thou  madest  the  sun,  but  not  so 
much  as  when  Thou  didst  manifest  Paul  to  the 
whole  world.     By  this,  the  earth  was  made  more 
brilliant  than  the  heaven,  for  he  is  brighter  than 
the  solar  light,  he  hath  shot  forth  more  brilliant 
rays,  he  hath  shed  abroad  more  joyous  beams. 
What  fruit  hath  this  man  borne  for  us  !  not  by 
making  fat  our  corn,  not  by  nurturing  our  pome- 
granates, but  by  producing  and  perfecting  the 
fruit  of  holiness,  and  when   falling   to   pieces, 
continually  recovering  them.     For  the  sun  itself 
can  nothing  profit  fruits  that  are  once  decayed, 
but  Paul  has  called  out  of  their  sins  those  who 
had  manifold  decays.     And  it  gives  place  to  the 
night,  but   he   had    mastery    over  the   Devil. 
Nothing  ever  subdued  him,  nothing  mastered 
him.    The  sun,  when  it  mounts  the   heavens, 
darts  down  its  rays,  but  he,   as  he  rose  from 
beneath,  filled  not  the  mid  space  of  heaven  and 
earth  with  light,  but  as  soon  as  he  opened  his 
mouth,  filled   the  Angels  with   exceeding  joy. 
For  if  "  there  is  joy  in  heaven  over  one  sinner 
that  repenteth  "  (Luke  xv.  7) ,  while  he  at  his  first 
address  caught  multitudes,  does  he  not  fill  with 
joy  the  Powers  above  ?    What  say  I  ?    It  suffic- 
ed) that  Paul  should  only  be  named,  and  the 
heavens  leap  for  joy.     For  if  when  the  Israelites 
"went  forth  out  of  Egypt,  the  mountains  skipped 
like  rams"  (Psa.  cxiv.  4),  how  great,  thinkest 
thou,  was  the  joy,  when   men  ascended  from 
earth  to  heaven ! 

Ver.  24.  For  this  cause  "  to  abide  in  the  flesh 
is  more  needful  for  your  sake." 

And  what  excuse  is  left  to  us  ?  ofttimes  it  hap- 
pens that  a  man  who  possesses  a  little  and  poor 
city,  chooses  not  to  depart  to  another  place, 
preferring  his  own  rest.  Paul  might  depart  to 
Christ,  and  would  not,  (Christ  whom  he  so  de- 
sired, as  for  .his  sake  to  choose  even  hell,1)  but 
still  remained  in  the  contest  on  behalf  of  man. 
What  excuse  shall  we  have  ?  May  we  then  even 
make  mention  of  Paul?  Look  to  his  deeds. 
He  showed  that  to  depart  was  better,  persuad- 
ing himself  not  to  grieve  :  he  showed  them,  that 
jf  he  remained,  he  remained  for  their  sake,  that 
it  proceeded  not  from  wickedness  of  those  who 
plotted  against  him.  He  subjoined  also  the 
reason,  that  he  might  secure  their  belief.  For 
if  this  is  necessary,  that  is,  I  shall  by  all  means 
remain,  and  I  will  not  "  remain "  simply,  but 
"will  remain  with  you."  For  this  is  the  mean- 
ing of  the  word,  "  and  I  shall  abide  with,"  i.e. 
I  shall  see  you.  For  what  cause  ?  "  For  your 
progress  and  joy  in  the  faith."  Here  too  he 
rouses  them,  to  take  heed  unto  themselves.  If, 
says  he,  for  your  sakes  I  abide,  see  that  ye  shame 

1  [Chrys.  frequently  refers  to  Rom.  tx.  3,  according  to  his  mis- 
taken interpretation.  —  J.  A.  B.] 


not  my  abiding.  "  For  your  progress,"  I  have 
chosen  to  remain,  when  I  was  about  Ho  see 
Christ.  I  have  chosen  to  remain,  because  my 
presence  advances  both  your  faith  and  your  joy. 
What  then?  Did  he  remain  for  the  sake  of  the 
Philippians  only?  He  stayed  not  for  their  sake 
only ;  but  this  he  says,  that  he  may  show  regard  to 
them.  And  how  were  they  to  "  progress  "  in  "  the 
faith"?  That  you  maybe  more  strengthened, 
like  young  fowl,  who  need  their  mother  until 
their  feathers  are  set.  This  is  a  proof  of  his 
great  love.  In  like  sort,  we  also  rouse  some  of 
you,  when  we  say,  for  your  sake  have  I  remained, 
that  I  may  make  you  good. 

Ver.  26.  "  That  your  glorying  may  abound  in 
Christ  Jesus  in  me,  through  my  presence  with 
you  again." 

You  see  that  this  explains  the  word  "  abide 
with  you."  Behold  his  humility.  Having  said, 
"  for  your  progress,"  he  shows  that  it  was  for  his 
own  profit  too.  This  also  he  does,  when  he 
writes  to  the  Romans,  and  says, "  That  is,  that 
we  may  be  comforted  together  in  you."  (Rom. 
i.  11,  12.)  Having  previously  said,  "That 
I  may  impart  unto  you  some  spiritual  gift." 
And  what  means,  "That  your  glorying  may 
abound  "  ?  This  glorying  was,  their  establish- 
ment in  the  faith.  For  an  upright  life  is  glory- 
ing in  Christ.  And  sayest  thou,  "  Your  glorying 
in  me,  through  my  presence  with  you  again"? 
Yes,  he  answers ;  "  For  what  is  our  hope,  or 
crown  of  glorying?  Are  not  even  ye?"  (i 
Thess.  ii.  19.)  Because  "  you  are  our  glorying, 
even  as  we  also  are  yours"  (2  Cor.  i.  14),  i.e. 
that  I  may  be  able  to  rejoice  in  you  greatly.  How 
sayest  thou,  "  That  your  glorying  may  abound  "  ? 
I  may  glory  the  more  when  you  make  progress.2 

"Through  my  presence  with  you  again." 
What  then  !  Did  he  come  to  them  ?  Search  ye 
whether  he  came. 

Ver.  27.  "Only  let  your  manner  of  life  be 
worthy  of  the  Gospel  of  Christ." 

Do  you  see,  how  all  that  he  has  said,  tends  to 
turn  them  to  this  one  thing,  advancement  in  vir- 
tue ?  "  Only  let  your  manner  of  life  be  worthy 
of  the  Gospel  of  Christ."  What  means  this 
word  "  only,"  but  that  this,  and  nought  else,  is  the 
only  thing  we  should  seek?  If  we  have  this, 
nothing  grievous  will  befall  us.  "  That  whether 
I  come  and  see  you,  or  be  absent,  I  may  hear 
of  your  state."  This  he  says  not  as  if  he  had 
changed  his  purpose,  and  no  longer  meant  to 
visit  them.  But  if  this  come  to  pass,  he  says, 
even  though  absent,  I  am  able  to  rejoice.  "  If," 
that  is,  "  I  hear  that  ye  stand  fast  in  one  spirit, 
with  one  soul."  This  is  what  above  all  things 
unites  believers,  and  maintains  love  unbroken, 


*  St.  Chrys.  seems  to  take  "your  glorying"  as  "the  glorying 
which  I  Paul  have  in  you."  The  passage  quoted  from  a  Cor.  i.  14 
shows  that  the  two  senses  are  connected.    Compare  3  Cor.  v.  12. 


200 


WORKS   OF   ST.    CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  l\ 


"that  they  may  be  one."  (John  xvii.  n.)  For 
a  "kingdom  divided  against  itself  shall  not 
stand."  (Mark  iii.  24.)  For  this  cause  he  every- 
where counsels  his  disciples  much  to  be  of  one 
mind.  And  Christ  says,  "  By  this  shall  all  men 
know  that  ye  are  My  disciples,  if  ye  love  one 
another."  (John  xiii.  35.)  That  is,  do  not  look 
with  expectation  toward  me,  and  therefore  slum- 
ber, as  waiting  for  my  coming,  and  then,  when 
ye  see  me  not  coming  faint.  For  even  from  re- 
port I  can  receive  pleasure  likewise. 

What  means,  "  In  one  spirit "  ?  By  the  same 
gift  of  grace,  viz.  that  of  concord,  and  zeal ; 
for  the  Spirit l  is  one,  and  he  shows  it ;  for  then 
are  we  able  to  stand  in  "  one  soul,"  also,  when 
we  all  have  "one  Spirit."  See  how  the  word 
"one"  is  used  for  concord.  See  how  their 
souls  being  many  are  called  one.  Thus  was  it 
of  old.  "  For  they  were  all,"  it  is  written,  "  of 
one  heart  and  of  one  soul.  Striving  together 
for  the  faith  of  the  Gospel."  (Acts  iv.  32.) 
Does  he  say,  striving  together  for  each  other,2  as 
though  the  faith  did  strive  ?  For  did  they  wres- 
tle against  each  other?  But  help  each  other,  he 
says,  in  your  striving  for  the  faith  of  the  Gospel. 

Ver.  28.  "And  in  nothing  affrighted  by  the 
adversaries ;  which  is  for  them  an  evident  token 
of  perdition,  but  to  you  of  salvation." 

Well  said  he,  "  affrighted,"  this  is  what  befalls 
us  from  our  enemies,  they  only  frighten.  "  In 
nothing  "  therefore,  he  says,  whatever  happens, 
whether  dangers  —  whether  plots.  For  this  is 
the  part  of  those  who  stand  upright ;  the  enemy 
can  do  nought  but  frighten  only.  Since  it  was 
likely  that  they  should  be  greatly  troubled,  when 
Paul  suffered  such  numberless  ills,  he  says,  I 
exhort  you  not  only  not  to  be  shaken,  but  not 
to  be  affrighted,  yea  rather  to  despise  them 
heartily ;  for  if  ye  are  thus  affected,  ye  will ; 
straightway,  by  this  means,  make  evident  at 
once  their  destruction,  and  your  salvation.  For 
when  they  see,  that  with  their  innumerable  plots 
they  are  unable  to  frighten  you,  they  will  take 
it  as  a  proof  of  their  own  destruction.  For 
when  the  persecutors  prevail  not  over  the  perse- 
cuted, the  plotters  over  the  objects  of  their 
plots,  the  powerful  over  those  subject  to  their 
power,  will  it  not  be  self-evident,  that  their  per- 
dition is  at  hand,  that  their  power  is  nought, 
that  their  part  is  false,  that  their3  part  is  weak? 
"  And  this,"  he  says,  "  comes  from  God." 

Ver.  29.  "  For  unto  you  it  is  given  in  the 
behalf  of  Christ,  not  only  to  believe  on  Him, 
but  also  to  suffer  in  his  behalf." 

1  The  punctuation  is  altered.  He  seems  to  be  proving,  not  the 
unity  of  the  Spirit,  but  the  relation  of  that  doctrine  to  practice. 

*  n.e.  you  and  the  faith. —  T.  A.  B.] 

*  Chrys.  seems  to  make  a  false  opposition  between  ixtivtav  and 
avritv;  but  if  the  reading  is  correct,  this  is  really  one  of  his  rapid 
changes  of  the  "  point  of  view,"  though  not  amounting  to  a  change 
of  person.  Dounaeus  suggests  on  rk  cfcciVwr  iATjflij;  (for  curfleioj,) 
'That  the  others'  (principles)  'are  true.'  Compare  the  letter  of 
Antoninus  [Hadrian]  quoted  by  Justin  Martyr.    Apol.  i.  70. 


Again  does  he  teach  them  moderation  c 
spirit  by  referring  all  to  God,  and  saying  tha 
sufferings  in  behalf  of  Christ  are  of  grace,  th 
gift  of  grace,  a  free  gift.  Be  not  then  ashame 
of  the  gift  of  grace,  for  it  is  more  wonderfi 
than  the  power  of  raising  the  dead,  or  workin 
miracles ;  for  there  I  am  a  debtor,  but  here 
have  Christ  for  my  debtor.  Wherefore  ought  w 
not  only  not  to  be  ashamed,  but  even  to  rejoice 
in  that  we  have  this  gift.  Virtues  he  calls  gift 
yet  not  in  like  sort  as  other  things,  for  those  ar 
entirely  of  God,  but  in  these  we  have  a  shan 
But  since  even  here  the  greatest  part  is  of  Goc 
he  ascribes  it  entirely  to  Him,  not  to  overtur 
our  free  will,  but  to  make  us  humble  an 
rightly  disposed. 

Ver.  30.  "  Having  the  same  conflict  which  y 
saw  in  me";  i.e.  ye  have  also  an  example 
Here  again  he  raises  them  up,  by  showin 
them  that  everywhere  their  conflicts  were  th 
same  with  his,  their  struggles  were  the  sam 
with  his,  both  severally,  and  in  that  they  unite 
with  him  in  bearing  trials.  He  said  not,  ye  hav 
heard,  but  "ye  saw,"  for  he  strove  too  a 
Philippi.  Truly  this  is  an  exceeding  virtue 
Wherefore  writing  to  the  Galatians,  also  h 
said,  "  Did  ye  suffer  so  many  things  in  vain,  if  i 
be  indeed  in  vain."  (Gal.  iii.  4.)  And  agair 
writing  to  the  Hebrews,  he  said,  "  But  call  t< 
remembrance  the  former  days,  in  which,  afte 
ye  were  enlightened,  ye  endured  a  great  con 
flict  of  suffering ;  partly,  being  made  a  gazing 
stock  both  by  reproaches  and  afflictions."  (Het 
x.  32,  33.)  And  writing  again  to  Macedonian.* 
that  is,  to  the  Thessalonians,  he  said,  "  For  the 
themselves  report  concerning  us,  what  manne 
of  entering  in  we  had  unto  you."  ( 1  Thess.  i.  9. 
And  again,  "  For  yourselves,  brethren,  know  ou 
entering  in  unto  you,  that  it  hath  not  been  fount 
vain."  (1  Thess.  ii.  1.)  And  in  like  sort  doe 
he  witness  the  same  things  of  them  all,  labor 
and  strivings.  But  such  things  ye  will  not  noi 
find  among  us ;  now  it  is  much  if  one  suffer 
little  in  goods  alone.  And  in  respect  of  thei 
goods  also  he  witnesses  great  things  of  then* 
For  to  some  he  says,  "  For  ye  took  joyfully  th 
spoiling  of  your  possessions  "  (Heb.  x.  34)  ;  an< 
to  others,  "  For  it  hath  been  the  good  pleasur 
of  Macedonia  and  Achaia  to  make  a  certai 
contribution  for  the  poor"  (Rom.  xv.  26)  ;  an 
"  your  zeal  hath  stirred  up  very  many  of  them. 
(2  Cor.  ix.  2.) 

Seest  thou  the  praises  of  the  men  of  that  time 
But  we  endure  not  so  much  as  bufletings  c 
blows,  neither  insult  nor  loss  of  our  possessions 
they  were  straightway  zealous,  and  all  of  ther 
strove  as  martyrs,  whilst  we  have  grown  col< 
in  love  toward  Christ.  Again  I  am  constraint 
to  accuse  things  present ;  and  what  shall  I  do 
It  is  against  my  will,  yet  am  I  constrained.    Wer 


Homily  IV.] 


HOMILIES   ON    PHILIPPIANS. 


20I 


I  able  by  my  silence  of  things  which  are  done, 
by  holding  my  peace,  and  not  mentioning  aught, 
to  remove  them,  it  would  behoove  me  to  be  silent. 
But  if  the  contrary  comes  to  pass  ;  if  not  only 
are  these  things  not   removed   by  our  silence, 
but  even  become  worse,  we  are  forced  to  speak. 
For  he  who  rebukes  sinners,  if  he  does  nought 
else,  suffers  them  not  to  go  farther.     For  there 
is  no  such  shameless  and  rash  soul,  as  not  to 
turn,  and  remit  the  extravagance  of  its  evil  deeds, 
on  hearing  any  one    continually  rebuking  it. 
There  is,  there  is  indeed,  even  in  the  shameless, 
a  small  portion  of  shame.     For  God  hath  sown 
in  our  nature  the  seeds  of  shame ;  for  since  fear 
was  insufficient  to  bring  us  to  a  right  tone,  He 
hath  also  prepared  many  other  ways  for  avoiding 
sin.    For  example,  that  a  man  should  be  ac- 
cused, fear  of  the  enacted  laws,1  love  of  repu- 
tation, the  desire  of  forming  friendships ;    for 
all  these  are  paths  to  avoid  sin.     Ofttimes  that 
which  was  not  done  for  God's  sake,  was  done 
through  shame ;  that  which  was  not  done  for 
God's  sake,  was  done  for  fear  of  men.     That 
which  we  seek  for  is,  in  the  first  place  not  to  sin, 
and  we  shall  afterwards  succeed  in  doing  this 
for  God's  sake.     Else  why  did  Paul  exhort  those, 
who  were  about  to  overcome a  their  enemies,  not 
by  the  fear  of  God,  but  on  the  score  of  waiting 
for  the  vengeance  ?s    "For  by  so  doing,"  he 
says,  "thou  shalt  heap  coals  of   fire  upon  his 
head."     (Rom.  xii.  20.)     For  this  is  his  first 
wish,  that  our  virtue  should  be  established.     As 
I  said  then,  there  is  in  us  a  sense  of  shame.     We 
have  many  good  natural  affections,  which  lead  to 
virtue ;  as,  for  example,  all  of  us  men  are  natu- 
rally moved  to  pity,  and  no  other  good  thing  so 
inheres  in  our  nature,  but  this  alone.   Whence  any 
one  might  reasonably  enquire,  wherefore  these 
seeds  have  above  all  others  been  sown  in  our 
nature,  by  which  we  melt 4  at  tears,  by  which  we 
are  turned  to  compassion,  and  are  ready  to  pity. 
No  one  is  naturally  idle,5  no  one  is  naturally  re- 
gardless of  his  reputation,  no  one  is  naturally 
above  emulation,  but  pity  lies  deep  in  every 
one's  nature,  however  fierce  and  ungentle  he  be. 
And  what  wonder?  we  pity  beasts,  such  a  super- 
abundance of  pity  lies  deep  in  us.     If  we  see  a 
hon's  whelp,  we  are  somewhat  affected ;  much 
more  in  the  case  of  one  of  our  race.     See,  how 
many  maimed  are  there  !  and  this  is  sufficient  to 
lead  us  to  pity.     Nothing  so  much  pleases  God 
as  mercy.6    Wherefore  with  this  the  priests  were 
anointed,  and  the  kings,  and  the  prophets,  for 
they  had,  in  oil,  a  type  of  God's  love  to  man ; 


1  See  00  Stat.  Horn.  vi. 

'  Mftmr.    He  seems  to  mean  "  to  have  them  in  their  power." 

1  See  00  the  passage,  Horn,  xxii.,  Tr.  p.  508. 

'wiiAwkt,  See  on  Stat.  Horn.  xiii.  §  9,  Tr.  p.  4*9.  In  that 
*m  Horn.  xii.  the  law  of  nature  is  discussed  at  some  length. 

f[This  is  obscure,  and  the  Oxford  editor  follows  the  suggestion 
wDwnies  that  for  ofT^Ct  "  idle,"  we  should  read  aopyot,  "  without 
*nger,"  but,  as  Field  points  out,  there  is  no  such  word.  —  J.  A.  B.} 

•  cAcajMfflrint. 


and  they  further  learnt,  that  rulers  should  have 
a  greater  share  of  mercy.7  It  showed  that  the 
Spirit  is  to  come  to  men  through  mercy,  since 
God  pities  and  is  kind  to  man.  For,  "  Thou  hast 
mercy  upon  all,"  it  is  written,  "  for  Thou  canst 
do  all  things."  (Wisd.  xi.  23.)  For  this  cause 
they  were  anointed  with  oil :  and  indeed  it  was 
from  mercy  He  appointed  the  priesthood.  And 
kings  were  anointed  with  oil ;  and  would  one 
praise  a  ruler,  he  can  make  mention  of  nothing 
so  becoming  him  as  mercy.  For  pity  is  pecu- 
liar to  power.  Consider  that  the  world  was  es- 
tablished by  pity,8  and  then  imitate  thy  Lord. 
"The  mercy  of  man  is  toward  his  neighbor, 
but  the  mercy  of  the  Lord  is  upon  all  flesh." 
(Ecclus.  xviii.  13.)  How  "upon  all  flesh"? 
Whether  you  mean  sinners,  or  just  men,  we  all 
need  the  mercy  of  God ;  we  all  enjoy  it,  be  it 
Paul,  be  it  Peter,  or  be  it  John.  And  listen  to 
their  own  words ;  there  is  no  need  of  mine. 
For  what  says  this  blessed  one?  "But  I  ob- 
tained mercy,  because  I  did  it  ignorantly."  ( 1 
Tim.  i.  13.)  What  then,  was  there  afterwards 
no  need  of  mercy  ?  Hear  what  he  says  ;  "  But 
I  labored  more  abundantly  than  they  all ;  yet 
not  I,  but  the  grace  of  God  which  was  with  me." 
(1  Cor.  xv.  to.)  And  of  Epaphroditus  he  says, 
"  For  indeed  he  was  sick,  nigh  unto  death  ;  but 
God  had  mercy  on  him  ;  and  not  on  him  only, 
but  on  me  also,  that  I  might  not  have  sorrow 
upon  sorrow."  (Phil.  ii.  27.)  And  again  he 
says,  "  We  were  weighed  down  exceedingly,  be- 
yond our  power,  insomuch  that  we  despaired 
even  of  life.  Yea,  we  ourselves  have  had  the 
answer  of  death  within  ourselves,  that  we  should 
not  trust  in  ourselves,  but  in  God,  who  delivered 
us  out  of  so  great  a  death,  and  will  deliver." 
(2  Cor.  i.  8,  9,  to.)  And  again,  "And  I  was 
delivered  out  of  the  mouth  of  the  lion ;  and  the 
Lord  will  deliver  me."  (2  Tim.  iv.  17,  18.) 
And  everywhere  we  shall  find  him  glorying  in 
this,  that  by  mercy  he  was  saved.  Peter,  too, 
became  so  great,  because  mercy  was  shown  him. 
For  hear  Christ  saying  to  him,  "  Satan  hath  de- 
sired to  sift  you  as  wheat ;  and  I  made  supplica- 
tion for  thee,  that  thy  faith  fail  not."  (Luke  xxii. 
31,  32.)  John,  too,  became  so  great  through 
mercy,  and  in  short  all  of  them.  For  listen  to 
Christ  when  He  says,  "  Ye  did  not  choose  Me, 
but  I  chose  you."  (John  xv.  16.)  For  we  all 
have  need  of  the  mercy  of  God,  as  it  is  written, 
"  The  mercy  of  God  is  upon  all  flesh."  9  But  if 
these  men  needed  the  mercy  of  God,  what  should 
one  say  of  the  rest?  For  why,  tell  me,  doth  He 
"  make  the  sun  to  rise  on  the  evil  and  the  good  "  ? 
Did  He  withhold  the  rain  for  one  year,  would 
He  not  destroy  all?    And  what  if  He  caused 


7  e'Acov. 

8  Com  p.  Wisd.  i.  14,  xi.  24. 

0  Ecclus.  xviii.  13,  as  above, 
iv.  18. 


Compare  Ps.  cxlv.  9  and  Job 


202 


WORKS  OF   ST.   CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  r 


overwhelming  rain?  what  if  He  rained  down 
fire?  what  if  He  sent  flies?  But  what  do  I  say? 
if  He  were  so  to  do 1  as  He  once  did,  would  not 
all  perish  ?  If  He  were  to  shake  the  earth,  would 
not  all  perish?  It  is  now  seasonable  to  say, 
"  What  is  man,  that  Thou  art  mindful  of  him?  " 
(Ps.  viii.  4.)  Were  He  only  to  threaten  the  earth, 
all  men  would  become  one  tomb.  "  As  a  drop 
of  water  from  the  bucket,"  it  is  written,  "  so  are 
the  nations  in  His  sight,  they  shall  be  counted 
as  very  small  dust,  as  the  turning  of  the  balance." 
(Isa.  xl.  15.)  It  were  as  easy  for  Him  to  destroy 
all  things,  and  to  make  them  again,  as  for  us  to 
turn  the  balance.  He  then  who  has  such  power 
over  us,  and  sees  us  sinning  every  day,  and  yet 
punishes  us  not,  how  is  it  but  by  mercy  He 
bears  with  us  ?  Since  beasts  too  exist  by  mercy : 
"Thou,  Lord,  wilt  preserve  both  men  and 
beasts."  (Ps.  xxxvi.  7.)  He  looked  upon  the 
earth,  and  filled  it  with  living  things.  And 
wherefore  ?  For  thy  sake  1  And  wherefore  did 
He  make  thee  ?    Through  His  goodness. 

There  is  nothing  better  than  oil.  It  is  the 
cause  of  light,  and  there  also  it  is  the  cause  of 
light.2  "  Then  shall  thy  light  break  forth  as  the 
morning  "  (Isa.  lviii.  8),  saith  the  Prophet,  if  thou 
showest  pity  upon  thy  neighbour.  And  as  natu- 
ral oil  contains  light,  so  then  doth  mercy  [alms] 
grant  us  a  great,  a  marvelous  light.  Much  men- 
tion doth  Paul,  too,  make  of  this  mercy.  In  one 
place,  hear  him  say,  "  Only  that  we  should  re- 
member the  poor."  (Gal.  ii.  10.)  And  in 
another,  "  If  it  be  meet  for  me  to  go  also." 
(1  Cor.  xvi.  4.)  And  in  every  place,  turn  where 
you  will,  ye  see  him  anxious  about  this  very 
thing.  And  again,  "And  let  our  people  also 
learn  to  maintain  good  works."  (Tit.  iii.  14.) 
And  again,  "  These  things  are  good  and  profita- 
ble unto  men."  (Tit.  iii.  8.)  Listen  to  a  cer- 
tain other  one  who  saith,  "  Alms  8  do  deliver  from 
death  "  (Tob.  xii.  9)  ;  If  Thou  takest  away  pity, 
"  Lord,  Lord,  who  shall  stand  "  (Ps.  cxxx.  3)  ; 
and  it  is  said,  If  Thou  enterest  "  into  judgment 
with  thy  servant "  (Ps.  cxliii.  2)  ;  "  A  great  thing 


1  [So  the  best  group  of  MSS.,  though  Field  retains  the  reading 
of  the  other  group,  "  if  ne  were  to  make  darkness."  The  vague  ex- 
pression, "  so  to  do  as  He  once  did,"  probably  refers  to  the  universal 
destruction  at  the  Deluge. — J.  A.  B.J 

*  [There  is  a  queer  play  upon  the  words  eAaiov,  "  oil,"  and 
«Atfov,  "  mercy,"  which  in  Chrys.'s  day  (as  in  Mod.  Greek)  were 
pronounced  alike.  As  oil  in  the  natural,  so  mercy  in  the  spiritual 
sphere,  he  says,  is  the  cause  of  light.  —  J.  A.  B.] 

*  [The  Greek  word  which  we  borrow  and  contract  into  "  alms" 
is  derived  from  the  word  here  rendered  pity  and  mercy.  —  J.  A.  B.] 


is  man  "  ;  why?  "  and  an  honorable  thing  is 
merciful  man."  (Prov.  xx.  6,  LXX.)  For  th 
is  the  true  character  of  man,  to  be  merciful,  y< 
rather  the  character  of  God,  to  show  mere 
Dost  thou  see,  how  strong  is  the  mercy  of  Goc 
This  made  all  things,  this  formed  the  world,  th 
made  the  angels,  it  was  through  mere  goo 
ness.  For  this  cause,  too,  He  threatened  he 
that  we  may  attain  unto  the  kingdom,  ai 
through  mercy  we  do  attain  unto  the  kingdoi 
For  wherefore  did  God,  being  alone,  create  s 
many  beings  ?  was  it  not  through  goodness  ?  w 
it  not  through  love  to  men?  If  you  ask  wl 
such  and  such  things  are,  you  will  always  fii 
your  answer  in  Goodness.  Let  us  show  mer< 
to  our  neighbors,  that  mercy  may  be  shown 
us.  These  acts  of  mercy4 we  show  not  so  mu< 
to  them,  as  lay  up  for  ourselves  against  Th 
Day.  When  the  flame  of  the  fire  is  great,  tr. 
oil  (mercy)  is  that  which  quenches  the  fire,  ai 
this  brings  light  to  us.  Thus  by  this  mea: 
shall  we  be  freed  from  the  fire  of  hell.  F 
whence  will  He  be  compassionate  and  she 
mercy?  Mercy  comes  of  love !  Nothing  i 
censes  God  so  much  as  to  be  pitiless.  "  A  m; 
was  brought  to  him  who  owed  him  ten  thousai 
talents,  and  he  was  moved  with  compassion,  ai 
forgave  him.  And  there  were  owing  to  th 
man  from  his  fellow-servant  a  hundred  penc 
and  he  caught  him  by  the  throat.  Therefo 
the  Lord  delivered  him  to  the  tormentors,  t 
he  should  pay  what  was  due."  Let  us  on  hea 
ing  this  be  merciful  to  those  who  are  our  del 
ors  in  money  or  in  sins.  Let  no  one  reraemb 
evils,  if  at  least  he  does  not  wish  to  injure  hit 
self;  for  he  does  not  so  much  aggrieve  the  oth 
(as  he  injures  himself).  For  he5  either  w 
follow  him  with  vengeance,  or  he  has  not  doi 
so ;  but  dost  thou  thyself,  while  -not  forgivii 
thy  neighbor  his  sins,  seek  for  a  kingdom  ?  Lc 
this  should  happen  to  us,  let  us  forgive  all,  (f 
it  is  ourselves  that  we  pardon,)  that  God  m; 
forgive  us  our  sins,  and  so  we  may  obtain  tl 
good  things  which  are  in  store,  through  the  gra 
and  lovingkindness,  &c. 


4  al.  This  oil;  see  note  a ;  and  on  Rom.  xiy.  13,  Horn,  xxv.,  Tr. 
435,  note  g;  and  on  Matt,  xxv.,  Horn,  lxxviii.  init.,  also  Horn,  on  St 
vi.,  Tr.  p.  130,  note  c.  He  may  mean  here  to  distinguish  the  fire 
Hell,  from  which  we  may  be  freed,  from  that  which  is  to  rage,  but 
be  quenched. 

*  [This  probably  means  God,  as  suggested  by  the  altered  te 
which  of  course  tinkered  so  obscure  a  passage. — J.  A.  B.] 


Hohlv  V.] 


HOMILIES   ON   PHILIPPIANS. 


203 


HOMILY   V. 


Philippians  ii.  1-4. 


u  If  there  is  therefore  any  comfort  in  Christ,  if  any  conso- 
lation of  love,  if  any  fellowship  of  the  Spirit,  if  any 
tender  mercies  and  compassions,  fulfil  ye  my  joy, 
that  ye  be  of  the  same  mind,  having  the  same  love, 
being  of  one  accord,  of  one  mind;  doing  nothing 
through  faction  or  through  vainglory;  but  in  lowli- 
ness of  mind,  each  counting  other  better  than  him- 
self; not  looking  each  of  you  to  his  own  things,  but 
each  of  you  also  to  the  things  of  others." 

There  is  nothing  better,  there  is  nothing  more 
affectionate,  than  a  spiritual  teacher;   such  an 
one  surpasses  the  kindness  of  any  natural  father. 
Do  but  consider,  how  this  blessed  one  entreats 
the  Philippians  concerning    the   things  which 
were  to  their  own  advantage.     What  says  he,  in 
exhorting  them  concerning  concord,  that  cause 
of  all  good   things?    See  how  earnestly,  how 
vehemently,  with  how  much  sympathy  he  speaks, 
"If  there  be  therefore  any  comfdrt  in  Christ," 
that  is,  if  ye  have  any  comfort  in  Christ,  as  if  he 
had  said,  If  thou  makest  any  account  of  me,  if 
thou  hast  any  care  of  me,  if  thou  hast  ever  re- 
ceived good  at  my  hands,  do  this.    This  mode 
of  earnestness  we  use  when  we  claim  a  matter 
which  we  prefer  to  everything  else.     For  if  we 
did  not  prefer  it  to  everything,  we  should  not 
wish  to  receive  in  it  our  recompense   for  all 
things,  nor  say  that  through  it  all  is  represented. 
We  indeed  remind  men  of  our  carnal  claims ; 
for  example,  if  a  father  were  to  say,  If  thou 
hast  any  reverence  for  thy  father,  if  any  remem- 
brance of  my  care   in  nourishing  thee,  if  any 
affection   towards  me,  if  any  memory  of  the 
honor  thou  hast  received  of  me,  if  any  of  my 
kindness,  be  not  at  enmity  with  thy  brother; 
that  is,  for  all  those  things,  this  is  what  I  ask  in 
return. 

But  Paul  does  not  so ;  he  calls  to  our  remem- 
brance no  carnal,  but  all  of  them  spiritual  bene- 
fits. That  is,  if  ye  wish  to  give  me  any  comfort 
in  my  temptations,  and  encouragement  in  Christ, 
if  any  consolation  of  love,  if  ye  wish  to  show 
any  communion  in  the  Spirit,  if  ye  have  any 
tender  mercies  and  compassions,  fulfil  ye  my 
joy.  "  If  any  tender  mercies  and  compassions.' ' 
Paul  speaks  of  the  concord  of  his  disciples  as 
compassion  towards  himself,  thus  showing  that 
the  danger  was  extreme,  if  they  were  not  of  one 
mind.  If  I  can  obtain  comfort  from  you,  if  1 1 
can  obtain  any  consolation  from  your  love,  if 
1  can  communicate  with  you  in  the  Spirit,  if  I 
can  have  fellowship  with  you  in  the  Lord,  if  I 
can  find  mercy  and  compassion  at  your  hands, 


show  by  your  love  the  return  of  all  this.     All 
this  have  I  gained,  if  ye  love  one  another. 

Ver.  2.  "  Fulfil  ye  my  joy." 

That  the  exhortation  might  not  seem  to  be 
made  to  people  who  were  still  deficient,  see  how 
he  says  not,  "  do  me  joy,"  but  "  fulfil  my  joy  " ; 
that  is,  Ye  have  begun  to  plant  it  in  me,  ye  have 
already  given  me  some  portion  of  peacefulness, 
but  I  desire  to  arrive  at  its  fulness?  Say,  what 
wouldest  thou  ?  that  we  deliver  thee  from  dan- 
gers ?  that  we  supply  somewhat  to  thy  need  ? 
Not  so,  but  "  that  ye  be  of  the  same  mind,  hav- 
ing the  same  love,"  in  which  ye  have  begun, 
"  being  of  one  accord,  of  one  mind."  Just  see, 
how  often  he  repeats  the  same  thing  t>y  reason 
of  his  great  affection  !  "  That  ye  be  of  die  same 
mind,"  or  rather,  "  that  ye  be  of  one  mind." 
For  this  is  more  than  "  the  same." 

"  Having  the  same  love."  That  is,  let  it  not 
be  simply  about  faith  alone,  but  also  in  all  other 
things ;  for  there  is  such  a  thing  as  to  be  of  the 
same  mind,  and  yet  not  to  have  love.  "  Having 
the  same  love,"  that  is,  love  and  be  loved  alike ; 
do  not  thou  enjoy  much  love,  and  show  less  love, 
so  as  to  be  covetous  even  in  this  matter ;  but  do 
not  suffer  it  in  thyself:  "  Of  one  accord,"  he 
adds,  that  is,  appropriating  with  one  soul,  the 
bodies  of  all,  not  in  substance,  for  that  is  impos- 
sible, but  in  purpose  and  intention.  Let  all 
things  proceed  as  from  one  soul.  What  means 
"of  one  accord"?  He  shows  when  he  says 
"  of  one  mind."  Let  your  mind  be  one,  as  if 
from  one  soul. 

Ver.  3.  "  Doing  nothing  through  faction." 

He  finally  demands  this  of  them,  and  tells ! 
them  the  way  how  this  may  be.  "  Doing  noth- 
ing through  faction  or  vainglory."  This,  as  I 
always  say,  is  the  cause  of  all  evil.  Hence  come 
fightings  and  contentions.  Hence  come  en- 
vyings  and  strifes.  Hence  it  is  that  love  waxes 
cold,  when  we  love  the  praise  of  men,  when  we 
are  slaves  to  the  honor  which  is  paid  by  the 
many,  for  it  is  not  possible  for  a  man  to  be  the 
slave  of  praise,  and  also  a  true  servant  of  God. 
How  then  shall  we  flee  vainglory  ?  for  thou  hast 
not  yet  told  us  the  way.  Listen  then  to  what 
follows. 

"  But  in  lowliness  of  mind,  each  counting 
other  better  than  himself."  Oh  how  full  of  true 
wisdom,  how  universal  a  gathering- word2  of  our 

1  [Field  here  makes  a  conjectural  alteration  which  is  little  better, 


and  we  follow  the  documents.  —  J.  A.  B.] 


<rvy«pon)pa. 


204 


WORKS   OF   ST.   CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  V. 


salvation  is  the  lesson  he  has  put  forth  !  If  thou 
deemest,  he  means,  that  another  is  greater  than 
thyself,  and  persuadest  thyself  so,  yea  more,  if 
thou  not  only  sayest  it,  but  art  fully  assured  of 
it,  then  thou  assignest  him  the  honor,  and  if  thou 
assignest  him  the  honor,  thou  wilt  not  be  dis- 
pleased at  seeing  him  honored  by  another.  Do 
not  then  think  him  simply  greater  than  thyself, 
but  "  better,"  which  is  a  very  great  superiority, 
and  thou  dost  not  think  it  strange  nor  be  pained 
thereby,  if  thou  seest  him  honored.  Yea,  though 
he  treat  thee  with  scorn,  thou  dost  bear  it  nobly, 
for  thou  hast  esteemed  him  greater  than  thyself. 
Though  he  revile  thee,  thou  dost  submit. 
Though  he  treat  thee  ill,  thou  bearest  it  in  si- 
lence. For  when  once  the  soul  is  fully  assured 
that  he  is  greater,  it  falls  not  into  anger  when  it 
is  ill-treated  by  him,  nor  yet  into  envy,  for  no 
one  would  envy  those  who  are  very  far  above 
himself,  for  all  things  belong  to  his  superiority. 

Here  then  he  instructs  the  one  party  to  be 
thus  minded.  But  when  he  too,  who  enjoys  such 
honor  from  thee,  is  thus  affected  toward  thee, 
consider  what  a  double  wall  there  is  erected  of 
gentle  forbearance  [comp.  Phil.  iv.  5]  ;  for  when 
thou  esteemest  him  thus  worthy  of  honor,  and 
he  thee  likewise,  no  painful  thing  can  possibly 
arise  ;  for  if  this  conduct  when  shown  by  one  is 
sufficient  to  destroy  all  strife,  who  shall  break 
down  the  safeguard,  when  it  is  shown  by  both  ? 
Not  even  the  Devil  himself.  The  defense  is 
threefold,  and  fourfold,  yea  manifold,  for  hu- 
manity is  the  cause  of* all  good;  and  that  you 
may  learn  this,  listen  to  the  prophet,  saying, 
"  Hadst  thou  desired  sacrifice,  I  would  have 
given  it :  Thou  wilt  not  delight  in  burnt  offer- 
ings. The  sacrifice  for  God  is  a  broken  spirit, 
a  broken  and  a  contrite  heart  God  will  not  de- 
spise."1 (Ps.  li.  16,  17.)  Not  simply  humility, 
but  intense  humility.  As  in  the  case  of  bodily 
substances,  that  which  is  "  broken  "  will  not  rise 
against  that  which  is  "  solid,"  but,  how  many  ills 
soever  it  may  suffer,  will  perish  itself  rather  than 
attack  the  other,  so  too  the  soul,  even  if  con- 
stantly suffering  ill,  will  choose  rather  to  die, 
than  to  avenge  itself  by  attack. 

How  long  shall  we  be  puffed  up  thus  ridicu- 
lously ?  For  as  we  laugh,  when  we  see  children 
drawing  themselves  up,  and  looking  haughty, 
or  when  we  see  them  picking  up  stones  and 
throwing  them,  thus  too  the  haughtiness2  of  men 
belongs  to  a  puerile  intellect,  and  an  unformed 
mind.  "Why  are  earth  and  ashes  proud?" 
(Ecclus.  x.  9.)  Art  thou  highminded,  O  man? 
and  why?  tell  me  what  is  the  gain?  Whence 
art  thou  highminded  against  those  of  thine  own 
kind?    Dost  not  thou  share  the  same  nature? 


1  [Quoted,  of  course,  from  the  Sept.,  which  here  differs  consider- 
ably from  the  Hebrew. — J.  A.  B.] 
*  airbpoia. 


the  same  life  ?  Hast  not  thou  received  like  honor 
from  God  ?  But  thou  art  wise  ?  Thou  oughtest 
to  be  thankful,  not  to  be  puffed  up.  Haughti- 
ness is  the  first  act  of  ingratitude,  for  it  denies* 
the  gift  of  grace.  He  that  is  puffed  up,  is 
puffed  up  as  if  he  had  excelled  by  his  own 
strength,  and  he  who  thinks  he  has  thus  ex- 
celled is  ungrateful  toward  Him  who  bestowed 
that  honor.  Hast  thou  any  good  ?  Be  thank- 
ful to  Him  who  gave  it.  Listen  to  what  Joseph 
said,  and  what  Daniel.  For  when  the  king  of 
Egypt  sent  for  him,  and  in  the  presence  of  all 
his  host  asked  him  concerning  that  matter  in 
which  the  Egyptians,  who  were  most  learned  in 
these  things,  had  forsaken  the  field,  when  he  was 
on  the  point  of  carrying  off  everything  from 
them,  and  of  appearing  wiser  than  the  astrolo- 
gers, the  enchanters,  the  magicians,  and  all  the 
wise  men  of  those  times,  and  that  from  cap- 
tivity and  servitude,  and  he  but  a  youth  (and 
his  glory  was  thus  greater,  for  it  is  not  the  same 
thing  to  shine  when  known,  and  contrary  to  ex- 
pectation, so  that  its  being  unlooked  for  ren- 
dered him  the  more  admirable)  ;  what  then, 
when  he  came  before  Pharaoh  ?  Was  it  "  Yea, 
I  know"?  But  what?  When  no  one  urged  it 
on  him,  he  said  from  his  own  excellent  spirit, 
" Do  not  interpretations  belong  to  God?  "4  Be- 
hold he  straightway  glorified  his  Master,  there- 
fore he  was  glorified.  And  this  also  is  no  small 
thing.  For  that  God  had  revealed  it  to  him 
was  a  far  greater  thing  than  if  he  had  himself 
excelled.  For  he  showed  that  his  words  were 
worthy  of  credit,  and  it  was  a  very  great  proof 
of  his  intimacy  with  God.  There  is  no  one 
thing  so  good  as  to  be  the  intimate  friend  of 
God.  "  For  if,"  says  the  Scripture,  "  he  [Abra- 
ham] was  justified  by  works,  he  hath  whereof  to 
glory,  but  not  toward  God."  (Rom.  iv.  2.) 
For  if  he  who  has  been  vouchsafed  grace  mak- 
eth  his  boast  in  God,  that  he  is  loved  of  Him, 
because  his  sins  are  forgiven,  he  too  that  work- 
eth  hath  whereof  to  boast,  but  not  before  God, 
as  the  other  (for  it5  is  a  proof  of  our  excessive 
weakness)  ;  he  who  has  received  wisdom  of 
God,  how  much  more  admirable  is  he?  He 
glorifies  God  and  is  glorified  of  Him,  for  He 
says,  "Them  that  honor  Me,  I  will  honor." 
(1  Sam.  ii.  30.) 

Again,  listen  to  him  who  descended  from 
Joseph,  than  whom  no  one  was  wiser.  "  Art 
thou  wiser,"8  says  he,  "than  Daniel?"  (Ezek. 
xxviii.  3.)  This  Daniel  then,  when  all  the  wise 
men  that  were  in  Babylon,  and  the  astrologers 
moreover,  the  prophets,  the  magicians,  the  en- 

8  Lit.  "  takes  away,"  i.e.  takes  the  credit  from  the  Giver. 

4  Gen.  xl.  8.  This  he  said  to  the  baker  and  cupbearer  in  prison, 
but  he  also  said  to  Pharaoh,  "  It  is  not  in  me:  Goa  shall  give  Pha- 
raoh an  answer  of  pence,"  c.  xli.  x6. 

*  He  may  mean  our  "  boasting"  of  " such "  things  as  we  do,  or 
the  fact  that  our  goodness  extends  not  to  God. 

6  E.  V.  "  Thou  art,"  but  [Chrys.  quotes  the  Sept.  —J.  A.  B.] 


HOMILY  V.] 


HOMILIES   ON    PHILIPPIANS. 


205 


chanters,  yea  when  the  whole  of  their  wisdom 
was  not  only  coming  to  be  convicted,  but  to  be 
wholly  destroyed  (for  their  being  destroyed  was 
a  clear  proof  that  they  had  deceived  before), 
this  Daniel  coming  forward,  and  preparing  to 
solve  the  king's  question,  does  not  take  the 
honor  to  himself,  but  first  ascribes  the  whole  to 
God,  and  says,  "  But  as  for  me,  O  king,  it  is  not 
revealed  to  me  for  any  wisdom  that  I  have 
beyond  all  men."  (Dan.  ii.  30.)  And  "  the 
king  worshiped  him,  and  commanded  that 
they  should  offer  an  oblation."  (Dan.  ii.  46.) 
Seest  thou  his  humility?  seest  thou  his  excellent 
spirit?  seest  thou  this  habit  of  lowliness ?  Listen 
also  to  the  Apostles,  saying  at  one  time,  "  Why 
fasten  ye  your  eyes  on  us,  as  though  by  our  own 
power  or  godliness  we  had  made  this  man  to 
walk?  (Acts  iii.  12.)  And  again,  "We  are  men 
of  like  passions  with  you."  (Actsxiv.  15.)  Now 
if  they  thus  refused  the  honors  paid  them,  men 
who  by  reason  of  the  humility  and  power  of 
Christ  wrought  greater  deeds  than  Christ  (for 
He  says,  "  He  that  belie veth  in  Me  shall  do 
greater  works  than  those  that  I  do  "  (John  xiv. 
12,  abr.)),  shall  not  we  wretched  and  miserable 
men  do  so,  who  cannot  even  beat  away  gnats,1 
much  less  devils  ?  who  have  not  power  to  bene- 
fit a  single  man,  much  less  the  whole  world,  and 
yet  think  so  much  of  ourselves  that  the  Devil 
himself  is  not  like  us  ? 

There  is  nothing  so  foreign  to  a  Christian  soul 
as  haughtiness.  Haughtiness,  I  say,  not  bold- 
ness nor  courage,  for  these  are  congenial.  But 
these  are  one  thing,  and  that  another ;  so  too 
humility  is  one  thing,  and  meanness,  flattery, 
and  adulation  another. 

I  will  now,  if  you  wish,  give  you  examples  of 
all  these  qualities.  For  these  things  which  are 
contraries,  seem  in  some  way  to  be  placed  near 
together,  as  the  tares  to  the  wheat,  and  the 
thorns  to  the  rose.  But  while  babes  might  easily 
be  deceived,  they  who  are  men  in  truth,  and  are 
skilled  in  spiritual  husbandry,  know  how  to  sep- 
arate what  is  really  good  from  the  bad.  Let 
me  then  lay  before  you  examples  of  these  quali- 
ties from  the  Scriptures.  What  is  flattery,  and 
meanness,  and  adulation?  Ziba  flattered  *  David 
out  of  season,  and  falsely  slandered  his  master. 
(2  Sam.  xvi.  1-3.)  Much  more  did  Ahitophel 
flatter  Absalom.  (2  Sam.  xvii.  1-4.)  But  David 
was  not  so,  but  he  was  humble.  For  the  deceit- 
ful are  flatterers,  as  when  they  say,  "  O  king, 
live  for  ever."  (Dan.  ii.  4.)  Again,  what  flat- 
terers the  magicians  are. 

We  shall  find  much  to  exemplify  this  in  the 


1  This  hyperbolical  expression  may  have  a  moral  meaning  with 
respect  to  petty  annoyances,  and  in  allusion  to  the  fan  used  in  the 
Holy  Eucharist.    Bingham  xv.  c.  3,  §  6. 

1  Compare  a  Sam.  xix„  96.  He  means  that  Ziba  had  recourse  to 
unworthy  means  of  winning  David's  favor.  And  that  Ahitophel  was 
ready  to  serve  Absalom  from  selfish  motives. 


case  of  Paul  in  the  Acts.  When  he  disputed 
with  the  Jews  he  did  not  flatter  them,  but  was 
humble-minded  (for  he  knew  how  to  speak 
boldly),  as  when  he  says,  "  I,  brethren,  though  I 
had  done  nothing  against  the  people,  or  the  cus- 
toms of  our  fathers,  yet  was  delivered  prisoner 
from  Jerusalem."  (Acts  xxviii.  17.) 

That  these  were  the  words  of  humility,  listen 
how  he  rebukes  them  in  what  follows,  "Well 
spake  the  Holy  Ghost,  By  hearing  ye  shall  hear, 
and  shall  in  nowise  understand,  and  seeing  ye 
shall  see,  and  in  nowise  perceive."  (Acts  xxviii. 
25  ;  ib. 26.) 

Seest  thou  his  courage?  Behold  also  the 
courage  of  John  the  Baptist,  which  he  used  be- 
fore Herod ;  when  he  said,  "  It  is  not  lawful  for 
thee  to  have  thy  brother  Philip's  wife."  (Mark 
vi.  18.)  This  was  boldness,  this  was  courage. 
Not  so  the  words  of  Shimei,  when  he  said,  "  Be- 
gone, thou  man  of  blood  "  (2  Sam.  xvi.  7),  and 
yet  he  too  spake  with  boldness ;  but  this  is  not 
courage,  but  audacity,  and  insolence,  and  an 
unbridled  tongue.  Jezebel  too  reproached  Jehu, 
when  she  said,  "The  slayer  of  his  master" 
(2  Kings  ix.  31),  but  this  was  audacity,  not 
boldness.  Elias  too  reproached,  but  this  was 
boldness  and  courage ;  "  I  do  not  trouble  Israel, 
but  thou  and  thy  father's  house."  (1  Kings  xviii. 
18.)  Again,  Elias  spake  with  boldness  to  the 
whole  people,  saying,  "  How  long  will  ye  go 
lame  on  both  your  thighs?"  (1  Kings  xviii.  21, 
LXX.)  Thus  to  rebuke  was  boldness  and 
courage.  This  too  the  prophets  did,  but  that 
other  was  audacity. 

Would  you  see  words  both  of  humility  and  not 
of  flattery,3  listen  to  Paul,  saying,  "  But  with  me  it 
is  a  very  small  thing  that  I  should  be  judged  of 
you,  or  of  man's  judgment ;  yea,  I  judge  not 
mine  own  self.  For  I  know  nothing  against 
myself,  yet  am  I  not  hereby  justified."  (1  Cor. 
iv.  3,  4.)  This  is  of  a  spirit  that  becomes  a 
Christian ;  and  again,  "  Dare  any  of  you,  hav- 
ing a  matter  against  his  neighbor,  go  to  law  be- 
fore the  unrighteous,  and  not  before  the  saints  "  ? 
(1  Cor.  vi.  j.) 

Would  you  see  the  flattery  of  the  foolish  Jews  ? 
listen  to  them,  saying,  "  We  have  no  king  but 
Caesar."  (John  xix.  15.)  Would  you  see  hu- 
mility? listen  to  Paul  again,  when  he  says,"  For 
we  preach  not  ourselves,  but  Christ  Jesus  as 
Lord,  and  ourselves  as  your  servants  for  Jesus' 
sake."  (2  Cor.  iv.  5.)  Would  you  see  both  flat- 
tery and  audacity?  "Audacity"  (1  Sam.  xxv. 
10)  in  the  case  of  Nabal,  and  "  flattery  "  (1  Sam. 
xxiii.  20)  in  that  of  the  Ziphites?  For  in  their 
purpose  they  betrayed  David.  Would  you  see 
"wisdom  "  (1  Sam.  xxvi.  5-12)  and  not  flattery, 


«  (All  of  Field's  MSS.  give  "  flattery  "  (instead  of"  freedom."  as 
the  text  of  most  editions),  and  he  has  inserted  "  not"  by  conjecture, 
as  it  is  said  below  in  the  case  of  David.  —  J.  A.  B.] 


206 


WORKS   OF   ST.   CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  VX 


that  of  David,  how  he  gat  Saul  into  his  power, 
and  yet  spared  him?  Would  you  see  the  flat- 
tery of  those  who  murdered  Mephibosheth,1 
whom  also  David  slew?  In  fine,  and  as  it  were 
in  outline,  to  sum  up  all,  audacity  is  shown  when 
one  is  enraged,  and  insults  another  for  no  just 
cause,  either  to  avenge  himself,  or  in  some  un- 
just way  is  audacious ;  but  boldness  and  courage 
are  when  we  dare  to  face  perils  and  deaths,  and 
despise  friendships  and  enmities  for  the  sake  of 
what  is  pleasing  to  God.  Again,  flattery  and 
meanness  are  when  one  courts  another  not  for 
any  right  end,  but  hunting  after  some  of  the 
things  of  this  life ;  but  humility,  when  one  does 


this  for  the  sake  of  things  pleasing  to  God,  and 
descends  from  his  own  proper  station  that  he 
may  perform  something  great  and  admirable. 
If  we  know  these  things,  happy  are  we  if  we  do 
them.  For  to  know  them  is  not  enough.  For 
Scripture  says,  "  Not  the  hearers  of  a  law,  but 
the  doers  of  a  law  shall  be  justified."  (Rom. 
ii.  13.)  Yea,  knowledge  itself  condemneth, 
when  it  is  without  action  and  deeds  of  virtue. 
Wherefore  that  we  may  escape  the  condemna- 
tion, let  us  follow  after  the  practice,  that  we  may 
obtain  those  good  things  that  are  promised  to 
us,  by  the  grace  and  love  of  our  Lord  Jesus 
Christ. 


HOMILY  VI. 

Philippians  ii.  5-8. 

"  Have  this  mind  in  yon,  which  was  also  in  Christ  Jesus:  27,  28.)  And  last  of  all  he  says  this,  "  Have 
who,  being  in  the  form  of  God,  counted  it  not  a  ^is  mind  in  you,  which  was  also  in  Christ  Jesus, 
fK^Mft^^W^h  who,  being  in  thefonn  of  God,  counted  it  not 

in  the  likeness  of  men;  and  being  found  in  fashion  a  prize  to  be  on  an  equality  with  God,  but 
as  a  man,  He  humbled  Himself,  becoming  obedient  emptied  Himself,  taking  Upon  Him  the  form  of 
even  unto  death,  yea,  the  death  of  the  cross."  a  servant."     (Phil.  ii.  5-7.)     Attend,  I  entreat 

^  ,  T         ^,,   .  ^     ,  ,       .       TT.     you,  and   rouse  yourselves.      For  as  a  sharp 

Our  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  when  exhorting  His  Jtmytdgti  sword,  wheresoever  it  Ms,  though  it 

disciples  to  great  actions,  places  before    hem  be  am*      ten  thousand  phaLhaaies>  easily  cuts 

Himself,  and  the  Father,  and  the  Prophets  as  ^        h  ^   destroys    ^^  it  is  ^  on 

examples;  as  when  He  says,  "For  thus  they  every  side,  and  nought  can  bear  its  edge ;  so  are 

did  unto  the  Prophete  which  were  before  you  ^  £Qrds  of  the  SpWt     (Reb   iy  £     Rey  L 

(Matt.  v.  12 ;  Luke  vi.  23) ;  and  again,     If  they  f6#)     For  .     ^  WQrdsv  he  has  laid  low  ^ 

persecuted  Me,  they  will  also  persecute  you  followers  of'  Arius  of  Alexandria,  of  Paul   of 

(John  xv.  20) ;  and.     Learn  of  me,  for  I  am  s^^  of  Marcellus  the  Galatian,  of  Sabellius 

meek"  (Matt.  xi.  29)  J  and  again,  "Be  ye  merci-  the  Lib        of  Mardon  that  was  of  P()         of 

ful,  as  your  Fa^erwhich  ism  heaven  KmerciM.  Valentimis   of  Manes    of  ApolUnarius  of  ^o- 

(Luke  vi.  36.)     This  too  the  blessed  Paul  did;  di         of  Photinus    of  Sophronius,  and,  in  one 

in  exhorting  them  to  humility,  he  brought  for-  word  M  the  heresies.     Rouse  yourSelVes  then 

ward  Christ.  And  he  does  so  not  here  only,  but  tQ  hAM  so  great  a  spectacle,  so  many  armies 

also  when  he  discourses  of  love  towards  the  fam      b    one  stroke,  lest  the  pleasure  of  such  a 

poor,  he  speaks  in  this  wise      "For  ye  know  3^^^^  escape  you.     For  if  when  chariots 

the  grace  of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  that  though  c*ntend  m  ^  ^  race  there  is  nothin    M 

He  was  rich,  yet  for  your  sakes  He  became  poor  ,easi     M  when  one  of  them  dashes  ^g^^^ 

(2  Cor  viii.  9.)     Nothing  rouses  a  great  and  overthrows  whole  chariots  with  their  drivers,  and 

philosophic  soul  to  the  performance  of  good  after  ^^^  down  many  with  the  charioteers 

works    so  much  ^learning  that  m  this  it  is  that  stood  ^         driyes  b    alone  towards  the 

hkened  to  God.    What  encouragement  is  equal  ,  ^  ^  end  of  the  c           ^  amid  ^ 

to  this?    None.    This  Paul  well  knowing,  when  *     lause  ^  clamor  which  rises  on  ^  sides 

he  would  exhort  them  to  humility,  first  beseeches  ^'heaven,  with  coursers  winged  as  it  were  by 

and  supplicates  them    then  to  awe s  them  he  that  .      ^  that  applause    ^eps  over  the 

says,   "That  ye  stand  fast  in  one  Spirit    ;  he  wholeJ  ^^      how    much    greater  will  the 

says  also,  that  it  "is  for  them  an  evident  token  ^^^  here  when  by  the  grace  of  God  we 

of  perdition,  but  of  your  salvation.        (Phil.  1.  ^verthrow  at  once  and  in  a  body  the  combina- 

•  ,s«n.iv.8.  so  some  cop...  of  lxx.,  for  ishbche*.  ^om  and  devilish    machinations  of  all  these 

» c'rrpcirrutuc,  usually  to  "  shame,"  here  rather  to  "  make  sen-  heresies  together  with  their  charioteers  ? 

See,Ph•J^r.™p^3Knting,othem,bepraeo"of,heHo'yS,>i^i,•       And  if  it  seem  good  to  you,  we  will  first 


HOMILY  VI.] 


HOMILIES   ON    PHILIPPIANS. 


207 


arrange  the  heresies  themselves  in  order.  Would 
you  have  them  in  the  order  of  their  impiety,  or 
of  their  dates  ?  In  the  order  of  time,  for  it  is 
difficult  to  judge  of  the  order  of  their  impiety. 
First  then  let  Sabellius l  the  Libyan  come  for- 
ward. What  does  he  assert?  that  the  Father, 
Son,  and  Holy  Spirit,  are  mere  names  given  to 
one  Person.  Marcion*  of  Pontus  says,  that 
God  the  Creator  of  all  things  is  not  good,  nor 
the  Father  of  the  good  Christ,  but  another  right- 
eous one,3  and  that  he  did  not  take  flesh  for  us. 
Marcellus,4  and  Photinus,5  and  Sophronius  assert, 
that  the  Word  is  an  energy,  and  that  it  was  this 
energy  that  dwelt  in  Him  who  was  of  the  seed 
of  David,  and  not  a  personal  substance. 

Arius  confesses  indeed  the  Son,  but  only  in 
word ;  he  says  that  He  is  a  creature,  and  much 
inferior  to  the  Father.  And  others  say  that  He 
has  not  a  soul.  Seest  thou  the  chariots  stand- 
ing? See  then  their  fall,  how  he  overthrows 
them  all  together,  and  with  a  single  stroke. 
How?  "  Have  the  same  mind  in*  you,"  he  says, 
"which  was  in  Christ  Jesus,  who  being  in  the 
form  of  God,  counted  it  not  a  prize  to  be  on 
an  equality  with  God."  And  Paul 6  of  Samosata 
has  fallen,  and  Marcellus,  and  Sabellius.  For  he 
says,  "  Being  in  the  form  of  God."  If  "  in  the 
form  "  how  sayest  thou,  O  wicked  one,  that  He 
took  His  origin  from  Mary,  and  was  not  before? 
and  how  dost  thou  say  that  He  was  an  energy? 
For  it  is  written,  "  The  form  of  God  took  the 
form  of  a  servant."  "  The  form  of  a  servant," 
is  it  the  energy  of  a  servant,  or  the  nature  of  a 
servant?  By  all  means,  I  fancy,  the  nature  of 
a  servant  Thus  too  the  form  of  God,  is  the 
nature  of  God,  and  therefore  not  an  energy. 
Behold  also  Marcellus  of  Galatia,  Sophronius 
and  Photinus  have  fallen. 

Behold  Sabellius  too.  It  is  written,  "He 
counted  it  not  a  prize  to  be  on  an  equality  with 
God."  Now  equality  is  not  predicated,  where 
there  is  but  one  person,  for  that  which  is  equal 
hath  somewhat  to  which  it  is  equal.  Seest  thou 
not  the  substance  of  two  Persons,  and  not 
empty  names  without  things?  Hearest  thou 
not  the  eternal  pre-existence  of  the  Only- 
begotten? 

Lastly,  What  shall  we  say  against  Arius,7  who 
asserts  the  Son  is  of  a  different  substance  ?  Tell 
me  now,  what  means,  "  He  took  the  form  of  a 
servant"?  It  means,  He  became  man.  Where- 
fore "being  in  the  form  of  God,"  He  was  God. 
For  one  "  form  "  and  another  "  form  "  is  named  ; 

1  See  Euseb.  vii.  6.  His  heresy  had  been  held  before  by  Praxeas; 
he  was  himself  later  than  Marcion. 

*  Euseb.  iv.  ix.    Tertullian  wrote  a  treatise  against  him. 

*  Tert.  adv.  Marc.  i.  6. 

*  Tbeod.  ti.  6,  8.    Socr.  it.  19,  so. 

*  Tbeodoret.  v.  xx. 

*  Euseb.  vn.  ar-jo- 

'  See  St.  Ath.  Disc.  i.  c.  xi.  §  4.  [For  the  various  heretics  here 
■enbooed,  see  in  Smith's  Diet.  Christian  Biog.,  or  in  the  ScharT- 
HcRog  Eacyc  of  Religious  Knowledge. —J.  A.  B.] 


if  the  one  be  true,  the  other  is  also.  "  The  form 
of  a  servant "  means,  Man  by  nature,  wherefore 
44  the  form  of  God  "  means,  God  by  natfire.  And 
he  not  only  bears  record  of  this,  but  of  His 
equality  too,  as  John  also  doth,  that  he  is  no 
way  inferior  to  the  Father,  for  he  saith,  "  He 
thought  it  not  a  thing  to  seize,8  to  be  equal  with 
God."  Now  what  is  their  wise  reasoning?  Nay, 
say  they,  he  proves  the  very  contrary;  for  he 
says,  that,  "  being  in  the  form  of  God,  He  seized 
not  equality  with  God."  How  if  He  were  God, 
how  was  He  able  "  to  seize  upon  it "  ?  and  is 
not  this  without  meaning?  Who  would  say  that 
one,  being  a  man,  seized  not  on  being  a  man  ? 
for  how  would  any  one  seize  on  that  which  he 
is?  No,  say  they,  but  he  means  that  being  a 
little  God,  He  seized  not  upon  being  equal  to 
the  great  God,  Who  was  greater  than  He.  Is 
there  a  great  and  a  little  God?  And  do  ye  bring 
in  the  doctrines  of  the  Greeks  upon  those  of  the 
Church  ?  With  them  there  is  a  great  and  a  lit- 
tle God.  If  it  be  so  with  you,  I  know  not.  For 
you  will  find  it  nowhere  in  the  Scriptures :  there 
you  will  find  a  great  God  throughout,  a  little  one 
nowhere.  If  He  were  little,  how  would  he  also 
be  God?  If  man  is  not  little  and  great,  but 
one  nature,  and  if  that  which  is  not  of  this  one 
nature  is  not  man,  how  can  there  be  a  little 
God  and  a  great  one? 

He  who  is  not  of  that  nature  is  not  God. 
For  He  is  everywhere  called  great  in  Scripture  ; 
"  Great  is  the  Lord,  and  highly  to  be  praised." 
(Ps.  xlviii.  1.)  This  is  said  of  the  Son  also,  for 
it  always  calls  Him  Lord.  "Thou  art  great, 
and  doest  wondrous  things.  Thou  art  God 
alone."  (Ps.  lxxxvi.  10.)  And  again,  "Great 
is  our  Lord,  and  great  is  His  power,  and  of  His 
greatness  there  is  no  end."     (Ps.  cxlv.  3.) 

But  the  Son,  he  says,  is  little.  But  it  is  thou 
that  sayest  this,  for  the  Scripture  says  the  con- 
trary :  as  of  the  Father,  so  it  speaks  of  the  Son ; 
for  listen  to  Paul,  saying,  "  Looking  for  the 
blessed  hope,  and  appearing  of  the  glory  of  our 
great  God."  (Tit.  ii.  13.)  But  can  he  have 
said  "  appearing  "  of  the  Father?  Nay,  that  he 
may  the  more  convince  you,  he  has  added  with 
reference  to  the  appearing  "  of  the  great  God." 
Is  it  then  not  said  of  the  Father?  By  no  means. 
For  the  sequel  suffers  it  not  which  says,  "The 
appearing  of  our  great  God  and  Saviour  Jesus 
Christ." 9  See,  the  Son  is  great  also.  How  then 
speakest  thou  of  small  and  great? 

Listen  to  the  Prophet  too,  calling  him  "  The 
Messenger10  of  great  counsel."  (Isa.  ix.  6.)  "  The 
Messenger  of  great  counsel,"  is  He  not  great 

8  [Rev.  Ver.  "  a  prize/*  a  thing  seized,  or  a  thing  to  be  seized.  — 
J.  A.  B.] 

*  [Chrys.'s  whole  argument  shows  that  he  understand*  thi*  pas- 
sage as  here  translated,  after  Rev.  Ver.  Comp.  Ellicott  on  Tims.  — 
J.  A.  B.] 

10  See  also  Jer.tfcxxii.  18.  Some  copies  of  LXX.  omit  the  latter 
I  part  of  Isa.  ix.  6,  probably  because  it  was  not  understood. 


208 


WORKS   OF   ST.    CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  VI. 


Himself?  "  The  mighty  God,"  is  He  small  and 
not  great?  What  mean  then  these  shameless 
and  reckless  men  when  they  say,  that  being  little 
He  is  a  God?  I  repeat  ofttimes  what  they  say, 
that  ye  may  the  more  avoid  them.  He  being 
a  lesser  God  seized  not  for  Himself  to  be  like 
the  greater  God  !  Tell  me  now  (but  think  not 
that  these  words  are  mine),  if  he  were  little,  as 
they  say,  and  far  inferior  to  the  Father  in  power, 
how  could  He  possibly  have  seized  to  Himself 
equality  with  God  ?  For  an  inferior  nature  could 
not  seize  for  himself  admission  into  that  which 
is  great ;  for  example,  a  man  could  not  seize  on 
becoming  equal  to  an  angel  in  nature ;  a  horse 
could  not,  though  he  wished  it,  seize  on  being 
equal  to  a  man  in  nature.  But  besides  all  that, 
I  will  say  this  too.  What  does  Paul  wish  to  es- 
tablish by  this  example?  Surely,  to  lead  the 
Philippians  to  humility.  To  what  purpose  then 
did  he  bring  forward  this  example  ?  For  no  one 
who  would  exhort  to  humility  speaks  thus ;  "  Be 
thou  humble,  and  think  less  of  thyself  than  of 
thine  equals  in  honor,  for  such  an  one  who  is  a 
slave  has  not  risen  against  his  master ;  do  thou 
imitate  him."  This,  any  one  would  say,  is  not 
humility,  but  arrogance.1  Learn  ye  what  humil- 
ity is,  ye  who  have  a  devilish  pride  !  What  then 
is  humility  ?  To  be  lowly  minded.  And  he  is 
lowly  minded  who  humbles  himself,  not  he  who 
is  lowly  by  necessity.  To  explain  what  I  say ; 
and  do  ye  attend ;  he  who  is  lowly  minded, 
when  he  has  it  in  his  power  to  be  high  minded, 
is  humble,  but  he  who  is  so  because  he  is  not 
able  to  be  high  minded,  is  no  longer  humble. 
For  instance,  If  a  King  subjects  himself  to  his 
own  officer,  he  is  humble,  for  he  descends  from 
his  high  estate  ;  but  if  an  officer  does  so,  he  will 
not  be  lowly  minded;  for  how?  he  has  not 
humbled  himself  from  any  high  estate.  It  is  not 
possible  to  show  humble- mindedness  except  it  be 
in  our  power  to  do  otherwise.  For  if  it  is  nec- 
essary for  us  to  be  humble  even  against  our  will, 
that  excellency  comes  not  from  the  spirit  or  the 
will,  but  from  necessity.  This  virtue  is  called 
humble-mindedness,  because  it  is  the  humbling 
of  the  mind. 

If  he  who  has  it  not  in  his  power  to  snatch  at 
another's  goods,  continues  in  the  possession  of 
his  own;  should  we  praise  him,  think  you,  for 
his  justice?  I  trow  not,  and  why?  The  praise 
of  free  choice  is  taken  away  by  the  necessity. 
If  he,  who  has  it  not  in  his  power  to  usurp  and 
be  a  king,  remains  a  private  citizen,  should  we 
praise  him  for  his  quietness  ?  I  trow  not.  The 
same  rule  applies  here.  For  praise,  O  ye  most 
senseless  ones,  is  not  given  for  abstaining  from 
these  things,  but  for  the  performance  of  good 
deeds  ;  for  the  former  is  free  indeed  from  blame, 

1  arroroKK.  He  means  either  that  calling  it  humility  were  arro- 
gance, or  "  this  is  not  a  q-testiou  of  humility,  but  of  presumption." 


but  partakes  not  yet  of  praise,  while  eulogy  of 
the  other  is  meet.  Observe  accordingly  that 
Christ  gives  praise  on  this  principle,  when  He 
says,  "  Come,  ye  blessed  of  My  Father,  inherit 
the  kingdom  prepared  for  you  from  the  founda- 
tion of  the  world.  For  I  was  an  hungered,  and 
ye  gave  Me  meat ;  I  was  thirsty,  and  ye  gave 
Me  drink."  (Matt.  xxv.  34,  35.)  He  did  not 
say,  Because  ye  have  not  been  covetous,  because 
ye  have  not  robbed;  these  are  slight  things; 
but  because  "  ye  saw  Me  an  hungered,  and  fed 
Me."  Who  ever  praised  either  his  friends  or 
his  enemies  in  this  sort?  No  one  ever  praised 
even  Paul.  Why  say  Paul?  no  one  ever  praised 
even  a  common  man,  as  thou  dost  praise  Christ, 
because  he  did  not  take  that  rule  which  was  not 
his  due.  To  admire  for  such  things  as  this,  is 
to  give  evidence  of  much  evil.  And  why?  be- 
cause with  evil  men  this  is  a  matter  of  praise,  as 
of  one  that  stealeth,  if  he  steal  no  more  ;  but  it 
is  otherwise  among  good  men.  (Eph.  iv.  28.) 
Because  a  man  has  not  seized  on  a  rule  and  an 
honor  which  was  not  his  due,  is  he  praisewor- 
thy?    What  folly  is  this? 

Attend,  I  entreat  you,  for  the  reasoning  is 
long.  Again,  who  would  ever  exhort  to  humil- 
ity from  such  grounds  as  this  ?  Examples  ought 
to  be  much  greater  than  the  subject,  to  which 
we  are  exhorting,  for  no  one  will  be  moved  by 
what  is  foreign  to  the  subject.  For  instance, 
when  Christ  would  lead  us  to  do  good  to  our 
enemies,  He  brought  a  great  example,  even  that 
of  His  Father,  "  For  He  maketh  His  sun  to  rise 
on  the  evil  and  the  good,  and  sendeth  rain  on 
the  just  and  the  unjust."  (Matt.  v.  45.)  When  IJe 
would  lead  to  endurance  of  wrong  He  brought 
an  example,  "  Learn  of  Me,  for  I  am  meek  and 
lowly  in  heart."  (Matt.  xi.  29.)  And  again, 
"  If  I  your  Lord  and  Master  do  these  things, 
how  much  more  should  ye"?  (John  xiii.  14.) 
Seest  thou  how  these  examples  are  not  distant,* 
for  there  is  no  need  they  should  be  so  distant, 
for  indeed  we  also  do  these  things,  especially 
as  in  this  case  the  example  is  not  even  near. 
And  how?  If  He  be  a  servant,  He  is  inferior, 
and  subject  to  Him  that  is  greater ;  but  this  is 
not  lowliness  of  mind.  It  was  requisite  to  show 
the  contrary,  namely,  that  the  greater  person 
subjected  himself  to  the  lesser.  But  since  he 
found  not  this  distinction  in  the  case  of  God, 
between  greater  and  lesser,  he  made  at  least  an 
equality.  Now  if  the  Son  were  inferior,  this 
were  not  a  sufficient  example  to  lead  us  to  hu- 
mility. And  why?  because  it  is  not  humility, 
for  the  lesser  not  to  rise  against  the  greater,  not 
to  snatch  at  rule,  and  to  .be  "  obedient  unto 
death." 

*  This  sentence  is  difficult,  but  it  seems  to  mean  that  the  exam- 
ple of  our  Lord  as  Man  is  less  evidently  "distant"  than  that  given 
just  before,  but  is  still  above  the  lesson ;  whereas  this  passage  ex- 
plained  as  by  Arians  would  be  far  short  of  its  purpose. 


Homily  VI.] 


HOMILIES   ON   PHILIPPIANS. 


209 


Again,  consider  what  he  says  after  the  exam- 
ple, "  In  lowliness  of  mind,  each  counting  other 
better  than  themselves."  (Phil.  ii.  3.)  He  says, 
"counting,"  for  as  ye  are  one  in  substance,  and 
in  the  honor  which  cometh  of  God,  it  follows 
that  the  matter  is  one  of  estimation.  Now  in 
the  case  of  those  who  are  greater  and  lesser,  he 
would  not  have  said  "counting,"  but  honor 
them  that  are  better  than  yourselves,  as  he  says 
in  another  place,  "  Obey  them  that  have  the 
rule  over  you,  and  submit  to  them."  (Heb.  xiii. 
17.)  In  that  instance  subjection  is  the  result  of 
the  nature  of  the  case,  in  this  of  our  own  judg- 
ment. "  In  lowliness  of  mind,"  he  says,  "  each 
counting  other  better  than  themselves,"  as  Christ 
also  did. 

Thus  are  their  explanations  overthrown.  It 
remains  that  I  speak  of  our  own  after  I  have 
first  spoken  of  theirs  summarily.  When  exhort- 
ing to  lowliness  of  mind,  Paul  would  never  have 
brought  forward  a  lesser  one,  as  obedient  to  a 
greater.  If  he  were  exhorting  servants  to  obey 
their  masters,  he  might  have  done  so  with  pro- 
priety, but  when  exhorting  the  free  to  obey  the 
free,  to  what  purpose  could  he  bring  forward 
the  subjection  of  a  servant  to  a  master?  of  a 
lesser  to  a  greater?  He  says  not,  "Let  the 
lesser  be  subject  to  the  greater,"  but  ye  who  are 
of  equal  honor  with  each  other  be  ye  subject, 
"each  counting  other  better  than  themselves." 
Why  then  did  he  not  bring  forward  even  the 
obedience  of  the  wife,  and  say,  As  the  wife 
obeys  her  husband,  so  do  ye  also  obey.  Now 
if  he  did  not  bring  forward  that  state  in  which 
there  is  equality  and  liberty,  since  in  that  the 
subjection  is  but  slight,  how  much  less  would  he 
have  brought  forward  the  subjection  of  a  slave  ? 
I  said  above,  that  no  one  so  praises  a  man  for 
abstaining  from  evil,  nor  even  mentions  him  at 
all ;  no  one  who  desires  to  praise  a  man  for  con- 
tinence would  say,  he  has  not  committed  adul- 
tery, but,  he  has  abstained  from  his  own  wife ; 
for  we  do  not  consider  abstinence  from  evil  as  a 
matter  of  praise  at  all,  it  would  be  ridiculous. 

I  said  that  the  "  form  of  a  servant "  was  a 
true  form,  and  nothing  less.  Therefore  "the 
form  of  God  "  also  is  perfect,  and  no  less. 
Why  says  he  not,  "  being  made  in  the  form  of 
God,"  but  "  being  in  the  form  of  God  "  ?  This 
is  the  same  as  the  saying,  "I  am  that  I  am." 
(Ex.  iii.  14.)  "  Form  "  implies  unchangeable- 
ness,  so  far  as  it  is  form.  It  is  not  possible  that 
things  of  one  substance  should  have  the  form  of 
another,  as  no  man  has  the  form  of  an  angel, 
neither  has  a  beast  the  form  of  a  man.  How 
then  should  the  Son? 

Now  in  our  own  case,  since  we  men  are  of  a 
compound  nature,  form  pertains  to  the  body, 
but  in  the  case  of  a  simple  and  altogether  un- 
compounded  nature  it  is  of  the  substance.    But 


if  thou  contendest  that  he  speaks  not  of  the 
Father,  because  the  word  is  used  without  the 
article,  in  many  places  this  is  meant,  though  the 
word  be  used  without  the  article.  Why  say  I, 
in  many  places  ?  for  in  this  very  place  he  says, 
"  He  counted  it  not  a  prize  to  be  on  an  equality 
with  God,"  using  the  word  without  the  article, 
though  speaking  of  God  the  Father. 

I  would  add  our  own  explanation,  but  I  fear 
that  I  shall  overwhelm  your  minds.  Meanwhile 
remember  what  has  been  said  for  their  refuta- 
tion ;  meanwhile  let  us  root  out  the  thorns,  and 
then  we  will  scatter  the  good  seed  after  that  the 
thorns  have  been  rooted  out,  and  a  little  rest 
has  been  given  to  the  land ;  that  when  rid  of  all 
the  evil  thence  contracted,  it  may  receive  the 
divine  seed  with  full  virtue. 

Let  us  give  thanks  to  God  for  what  has  been 
spoken ;  let  us  entreat  Him  to  grant  us  the 
guarding  and  safe  keeping  thereof,  that  both  we 
and  ye  may  rejoice,  and  the  heretics  may  be  put 
to  shame.  Let  us  beseech  Him  to  open  our 
mouth  for  what  follows,  that  we  may  with  the 
same  earnestness  lay  down  our  own  views.  Let 
us  supplicate  Him  to  vouchsafe  us  a  life  worthy 
of  the  faith,  that  we  may  live  to  His  glory,  and 
that  His  name  may  not  be  blasphemed  through 
us.  For,  "  woe  unto  you,"  it  is  written,  "  through 
whom  the  name  of  God  is  blasphemed."  (Isa. 
Iii.  5,  LXX.  nearly.)  For  if,  when  we  have  a 
son,  (and  what  is  there  more  our  own  than  a 
son,)  if  therefore  when  we  have  a  son,  and  are 
blasphemed  through  him,  we  publicly  renounce 
him,  turn  away  from  him,  and  will  not  receive 
him ;  how  much  more  will  God,  when  He  has 
ungrateful  servants  who  blaspheme  and  insult 
Him,  turn  away  from  them  and  hate  them  ?  And 
who  will  take  up  him  whom  God  hates  and  turns 
away  from,  but  the  Devil  and  the  demons?  And 
whomsoever  the  demons  take,  what  hope  of 
salvation  is  left  for  him?  what  consolation  in 
life? 

As  long  as  we  are  in  the  hand  of  God,  "  no 
one  is  able  to  pluck  us  out"  (John  x.  28),  for  that 
hand  is  strong;  but  when  we  fall  away  from 
that  hand  and  that  help,  then  are  we  lost,  then 
are  we  exposed,  ready  to  be  snatched  away,  as 
a  "  bowing  wall,  and  a  tottering  fence  "  (Ps.  Ixii. 
3)  ;  when  the  wall  is  weak,  it  will  be  easy  for 
all  to  surmount.  Think  not  this  which  I  am 
about  to  say  refers  to  Jerusalem  alone,  but  to 
all  men.  And  what  was  spoken  of  Jerusalem  ? 
"  Now  will  I  sing  to  my  well-beloved  a  song  of 
my  beloved  touching  His  vineyard.  My  well- 
beloved  hath  a  vineyard  in  a  very  fruitful  hill, 
and  I  made  a  fence  about  it,  and  surrounded  it 
with  a  dike,  and  planted  it  with  the  vine  of 
Sorech,  and  built  a  tower  in  the  midst  of  it,  and 
also  dug  a  wine  press  in  it,  and  I  looked  that  it 
should  bring  forth  grapes,  and  it  brought  forth. 


2IO 


WORKS   OF   ST.    CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  VI. 


thorns.  And  now,  O  men  of  Judah  and  inhabi- 
tants of  Jerusalem,  judge  between  Me  and  My 
vineyard.  What  should  have  been  done  to  My 
vineyard,  that  I  have  not  done  to  it?  Where- 
fore, when  I  looked  that  it  should  bring  forth 
grapes,  brought  it  forth  thorns?  Now  therefore 
I  will  tell  you  what  I  will  do  to  My  vineyard  :  I 
will  take  away  the  hedge  thereof,  and  it  shall  be 
for  a  prey,  and  I  will  break  down  the  wall 
thereof,  and  it  shall  be  trodden  down.  And  I 
will  leave  My  vineyard,  and  it  shall  not  be 
pruned  or  digged,  but  thorns  shall  come  up 
upon  it,  as  upon  a  desert  land.  I  will  also  com- 
mand the  clouds,  that  they  rain  no  rain  upon  it. 
For  the  vineyard  of  the  Lord  of  Sabaoth  is  the 
house  of  Israel,  and  the  men  of  Judah  His 
pleasant  plant.  I  looked  that  it  should  do 
judgment,  but  it  did  iniquity,  and  a  cry  instead 
of  righteousness."  (Isa.  v.  1-7,  LXX.)  This 
is  spoken  also  of  every  soul.  For  when  God 
who  loveth  man  hath  done  all  that  is  needful, 
and  man  then  bringeth  forth  thorns  instead  of 
grapes,  He  will  take  away  the  fence,  and  break 
down  the  wall,  and  we  shall  be  for  a  prey.  For 
hear  what  another  prophet  speaks  in  his  lamenta- 
tions :  "  Why  hast  thou  broken  down  her  fences, 
so  that  all  they  which  pass  by  the  way  do  pluck 
her  ?  The  boar  out  of  the  wood  doth  ravage  it, 
and  the  wild  beasts  of  the  field  feed  on  it." 
(Ps.  lxxx.  12,  13.)  In  the  former  place  He 
speaks  of  the  Mede  and  the  Babylonian,  here 
nought  is  said  of  them,  but  "  the  boar,"  and 
"  the  solitary  beast  "  is  the  Devil  and  all  his  host, 
because  of  the  ferocity  and  impurity  of  his  dis- 
position. For  when  it  would  show  us  his  rapac- 
ity, it  saith,  "As  a  roaring  lion  he  walketh 
about,  seeking  whom  he  may  devour "  ( 1 
Pet.  v.  8)  :  when  his  poisonous,  his  deadly,  his 
destructive  nature,  it  calleth  him  a  snake,  and  a 
scorpion ;  "  For  tread,"  saith  He,  "  upon 
serpents  and  scorpions,  and  upon  all  the  power 
of  the  enemy"  (Luke  x.  19)  :  when  it  would 
represent  his  strength  as  well  as  his  venom,  it 
calleth  him  a  dragon;  as  when  it  says,  This 
dragon  "  whom  thou  hast  formed  to  take  his 
pastime  therein."  (Ps.  civ.  26.)  Scripture 
everywhere  calleth  him  a  dragon,  and  a  crooked 
serpent,  and  an  adder  (Ps.  lxxiv.  13,  14)  ;  he 
is  a  beast  of  many  folds,  and  varied  in  his 
devices,  and  his  strength  is  great,  he  moves  all 
things,  he  disturbs  all  things,  he  turns  all  things 
up  and  down.  (Isa.  xxvii.  1 ;  li.  9  ;  Ezek.  xxix. 
3  ;  xxxii.  2.)  But  fear  not,  neither  be  afraid  ; 
watch  only,  and  he  will  be  as  a  sparrow ;  "  for," 
saith  He,  "  tread  upon  serpents  and  scorpions." 
If  we  will,  He  causes  him  to  be  trodden  down 
under  our  feet. 

See  now  what  scorn  is  it,  yea,  what  misery,  to 
see  him  standing  over  our  heads,  who  has  been 
given  to  us  to  tread  down.    And  whence  is  this  ? 


it  is  of  ourselves.  If  we  choose,  he  becomes 
great ;  and  if  we  choose,  he  becomes  of  small 
power.  If  we  take  heed  to  ourselves,  and  take 
up  our  stand  with  Him  who  is  our  King,  he 
draws  himself  in,  and  will  be  no  better  than  a 
little  child  in  his  warfare  against  us.  Whenso- 
ever we  stand  apart  from  Him,  he  puffeth  him- 
self up  greatly,  he  uttereth  terrible  sounds,  he 
grindeth  his  teeth,  because  he  finds  us  without 
our  greatest  help.  For  he  will  not  approach  to 
us,  except  God  permit  him ;  for  if  he  dared  not 
to  enter  into  the  herd  of  swine,  except  by  God's 
permission,  how  much  less  into  men's  souls. 
But  God  does  permit  him,  either  chastening  or 
punishing  us,  or  making  us  more  approved,  as 
in  the  case  of  Job.  Seest  thou  that  he  came 
not  to  him,  neither  dared  to  be  near  him,  but 
trembled  and  quaked  ?  Why  speak  I  of  Job  ? 
When  he  leaped  upon  Judas,  he  dared  not  to 
seize  on  him  wholly,  and  to  enter  into  him,  until 
Christ  had  severed  him  from  the  sacred  band. 
He  attacked  him  indeed  from  without,  but  he 
dared  not  enter  in,  but  when  he  saw  him  cut  off 
from  that  holy  flock,  he  leaped  upon  him  with 
more  than  wolfish  vehemence,  and  left  him  not 
till  he  had  slain  him  with  a  double  death. 

These  things  are  written  for  our  admonition. 
What  gain  have  we  from  knowing  that  one  of 
the  twelve  was  a  traitor  ?  what  profit  ?  what  ad- 
vantage ?  Much.  For,  when  we  know  whence 
it  was  that  he  arrived  at  this  deadly  counsel,  we 
are  on  our  guard  that  we  too  suffer  not  the  like. 
Whence  came  he  to  this?  From  the  love  of 
money.  He  was  a  thief.  For  thirty  pieces  of 
silver  he  betrayed  his  Lord.  So  drunken  was 
he  with  the  passion,  he  betrayed  the  Lord  of  the 
world  for  thirty  pieces  of  silver.  What  can  be 
worse  than  this  madness  ?  Him  to  whom  noth- 
ing is  equivalent,  nothing  is  equal,  "  before  whom 
the  nations  are  as  nothing"  (Isa.  xl.  15),  Him  did 
he  betray  for  thirty  pieces  of  silver.  A  grievous 
tyrant  indeed  is  the  love  of  gold,  and  terrible  in 
putting  the  soul  beside  itself.  A  man  is  not  so 
beside  himself  through  drunkenness 1  as  through 
love  of  money,  not  so  much  from  madness  and 
insanity  as  from  love  of  money. 

For  tell  me,  why  didst  thou  betray  Him  ?  He 
called  thee,  when  a  man  unmarked  and  unknown. 
He  made  thee  one  of  the  twelve,  He  gave  thee 
a  share  in  His  teaching,  He  promised  thee  ten 
thousand  good  things,  He  caused  thee  to  work 
wonders,  thou  wert  sharer  of  the  same  table,  the 
same  journeys,  the  same  company,  the  same  in- 
tercourse, as  the  rest.  And  were  not  these 
things  sufficient  to  restrain  thee?  For  what 
reason  didst  thou  betray  Him?  What  hadst 
thou  to  charge  Him  with,  O  wicked  one? 
Rather,  what  good  didst  thou  not  receive  at 
His  hands?     He  knew  thy  mind,  and  ceased 

1  See  on  Rom.  vii.  xx,  Horn,  xiii.,  Tr.  p.  438. 


Homily  VI.] 


HOMILIES   ON    PHILIPPIANS. 


211 


not  to  do  His  part.  He  often  said,  "  One  of 
you  shall  betray  Me."  (Matt.  xxvi.  21.)  He 
often  marked  thee,  and  yet  spared  thee,  and 
though  He  knew  thee  to  be  such  an  one,  yet 
cast  thee  not  out  of  the  band.  He  still  bore 
with  thee,  He  still  honored  thee,  and  loved  thee, 
as  a  true  disciple,  and  as  one  of  the  twelve,  and 
last  of  all  (oh,  for  thy  vileness  ! ) ,  He  took  a 
towel,  and  with  His  own  unsullied  hands  He 
washed  thy  polluted  feet,  and  even  this  did  not 
keep  thee  back.  Thou  didst  steal  the  things  of 
the  poor,  and  that  thou  mightest  not  go  on  to 
greater  sin,  He  bore  this  too.  Nothing  per- 
suaded thee.  Hadst  thou  been  a  beast,  or  a 
stone,  wouldest  thou  not  have  been  changed  by 
these  kindnesses  towards  thee,  by  these  wonders, 
by  these  teachings?  Though  thou  wast  thus 
brutalized,  yet  still  He  called  thee,  and  by  won- 
drous works  He  drew  thee,  thou  wast  more  sense- 
less than  a  stone,  to  Himself.  Yet  for  none  of 
these  things  didst  thou  become  better. 

Ye  wonder  perhaps  at  such  folly  of  the  traitor ; 
dread  therefore  that  which  wounded  him.  He 
became  such  from  avarice,  from  the  love  of 
money.  Cut  out  this  passion,  for  to  these  dis- 
eases does  it  give  birth ;  it  makes  us  impious, 
and  causes1  us  to  be  ignorant  of  God,  though 
we  have  received  ten  thousand  benefits  at  His 
hands.  Cut  it  out,  I  entreat  you,  it  is  no  com- 
mon disease,  it  knoweth  how  to  give  birth  to  a 
thousand  destructive  deaths.  We  have  seen  his 
tragedy.  Let  us  fear  lest  we  too  fall  into  the 
same  snares.  For  this  is  it  written,  that  we  too 
should  not  suffer  the  same  things.  Hence  did 
all  the  Evangelists  relate  it,  that  they  might  re- 
strain us.  Flee  then  far  from  it.  Covetousness 
consisteth  not  alone  in  the  love  of  much  money, 
but  in  loving  money  at  all.  It  is  grievous  avarice 
to  desire  more  than  we  need.  Was  it  talents  of 
gold  that  persuaded  the  traitor?  For  thirty 
pieces  of  silver  he  betrayed  his  Lord.  Do  ye 
not  remember  what  I  said  before,  that  covetous- 
ness is  not  shown  in  receiving  much,  but  rather 
in  receiving  little  things  ?  See  how  great  a  crime 
he  committed  for  a  little  gold,  rather  not  for 
gold,  but  for  pieces  of  silver. 

It  cannot,  it  cannot  be  that  an  avaricious  man 
should  ever  see  the  face  of  Christ !  This  is  one 
of  the  things  which  are  impossible.  It  is  a  root 
of  evils,  and  if  he  that  possesses  one  evil  thing, 
klk  from  that  glory,  where  shall  he  stand  who 
bears  with  him  the  root  ?  He  who  is  the  servant 
of  money  cannot  be  a  true  servant  of  Christ. 
Christ  Himself  hath  declared  that  the  thing  is 
impossible.  "  Ye  cannot,"  He  says,  "  serve  God 
and  Mammon,"  and,  "  No  man  can  serve  two 
nwsters"  (Matt.  vi.  24),  for  they  lay  upon  us 
contrary  orders.    Christ  says,  "  Spare  the  poor  "  ; 

1  *M«**cv*£ft(  which*  when  used  without  a  preposition,  is  more 


Mammon  says, "  Even  from  the  naked2  strip  off  the 
things  they  have."  Christ  says,  "  Empty  thyself 
of  what  thou  hast " ;  Mammon  says,  "  Take  also 
what  thou  hast  not."  Seest  thou  the  opposition, 
seest  thou  the  strife?  How  is  it  that  a  man 
cannot  easily  obey  both,  but  must  despise  one? 
Nay,  does  it  need  proof?  How  so  ?  Do  we  not 
see  in  very  deed,  that  Christ  is  despised,  and 
Mammon  honored?  Perceive  ye  not  how  that 
the  very  words  are  painful  ?  How  much  more  then 
the  thing  itself?  But  it  does  not  appear  so  pain- 
ful in  reality,  because  we  are  possessed  with  the 
disease.  Now  if  the  soul  be  but  a  little  cleansed 
of  the  disease,  as  long  as  it  remains  here,  it  can 
judge  right;  but  when  it  departs  elsewhere,  and 
is  seized  by  the  fever,  and  is  engaged  in  the 
pleasure  of  the  thing,  it  hath  not  its  perception 
clear,  it  hath  not  its  tribunal  uncorrupt.  Christ 
says,  "  Whosoever  he  be  of  you  that  renounceth 
not  all  that  he  hath,  he  cannot  be  My  disciple  " 
(Luke  xiv.  33)  ;  Mammon  says,  "Take  the 
bread  from  die  hungry."  Christ  says,  "  Cover 
the  naked  "  (Isa.  lviii.  7)  ;  the  other  says,  "  Strip 
the  naked."  Christ  says,  "  Thou  shalt  not  hide 
thyself  from  thine  own  flesh,"  (Isa.  lviii.  7)  and 
those  of  thine  own  house;8  Mammon  says,4 
"  Thou  shalt  not  pity  those  of  thine  own  seed ; 
though  thou  seest  thy  mother  or  thy  father  in 
want,  despise  them."  Why  say  I  father  or 
mother?  "Even  thine  own  soul,"  he  says, 
"  destroy  it  also."  And  he  is  obeyed  !  Alas  ! 
he  who  commands  us  cruel,  and  mad,  and  brutal 
things,  is  listened  to  rather  than  He  who  bids  us 
gentle  and  healthful  things !  For  this  is  hell 
appointed  ;  for  this,  fire  ;  for  this,  a  river  of  fire  ; 
for  this,  a  worm  that  dieth  not. 

I  know  that  many  hear  me  say  these  things 
with  pain,  and  indeed  it  is  not  without  pain  I 
say  them.  But  why  need  I  say  these  things? 
I  could  wish  the  things  concerning  the  kingdom 
to  be  ever  my  discourse,  of  the  rest,  of  the 
waters  of  rest,  of  the  green  pastures,  as  the 
Scripture  says,  "  He  maketh  me  to  lie  down  in 
green  pastures,  He  leadeth  me  beside  the  still 
waters"  (Ps.  xxiii.  2),  there  He  maketh  me 
to  dwell.  I  could  wish  to  speak  of  the  place, 
whence  "sorrow  and  sighing  shall  flee  away." 
(Isa.  li.  11.) 

I  could  wish  to  discourse  of  the  pleasures  of 
being  with  Christ,  though  they  pass  all  expres- 
sion and  all  understanding.  Yet  would  I  speak 
of  these  things  according  to  my  power.  But 
what  shall  I  do?  it  is  not  possible  to  speak  con- 
cerning a  kingdom 5  to  one  that  is  diseased  and 
in  fever ;  then  we  must  needs  speak  of  health. 

*  [So  the  best  group  of  MSS.  Field  retains  from  the  editions  the 
feebler  phrase  of  the  altered  text, "  Mammon  says,  Strip  off  even  the 
things  they  have."  To  strip  even  the  naked  is  a  phrase  quite  in 
Chrys.*s  vein. — J.  A.  B.] 

*  Sec  x  Tim.  v.  8,  and  Gal.  vi.  xo.  *  See  Mark  vii.  xx. 

*  He  means  an  earthly  kingdom  in  the  first  instance. 


212 


WORKS   OF   ST.   CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  VI] 


It  is  not  possible  to  speak  of  honor  to  one  that 
is  brought  to  trial,  for  at  that  time  his  desire  is 
that  he  be  freed  from  judgment,  and  penalty, 
and  punishment.  If  this  be  not  effected,  how 
shall  the  other  be  ?  It  is  for  this  cause  that  I 
am  continually  speaking  of  these  things,  that  we 
may  the  sooner  pass  over  to  those  other.  For 
this  cause  does  God  threaten  hell,  that  none  may 
fall  into  hell,  that  we  all  may  obtain  the  king- 
dom ;  for  this  cause  we  too  make  mention  con- 
tinually of  hell,  that  we  may  thrust  you  onward 
towards  the  kingdom,  that  when  we  have  soft- 
ened your  minds  by  fear,  we  may  bring  you  to 
act  worthily  of  the  kingdom.  Be  not  then  dis- 
pleased at  the  heaviness  of  our  words,  for  the 
heaviness  of  these  words  lightens  our  souls  from 
sin.1  Iron  is  heavy,  and  the  hammer  is  heavy, 
but  it  forms  vessels  fit  for  use,  both  of  gold  and 
silver,  and  straightens  things  which  are  crooked ; 
and  if  it  were  not  heavy,  it  would  have  no  power 
to  straighten  the  distorted  substance.  Thus  too 
our  heavy  speech  has  power  to  bring  the  soul 
into  its  proper  tone.  Let  us  not  then  flee  from 
heaviness  of  speech,  nor  the  strokes  it  gives ;  the 
stroke  is  not  given  that  it  may  break  in  pieces 
or  tear  the  soul,  but  to  straighten  it.  We  know 
how  we  strike,  how  by  the  grace  of  God  we  in- 
flict the  stroke,  so  as  not  to  crush  the  vessel, 
but  to  polish  it,  to  render  it  straight,  and  meet 
for  the  Master's  use,  to  offer  it  glittering  in 
soundness,  skillfully  wrought  against  that  Day  of 


the  river  of  fire,  to  offer  it  having  no  need  c 
that  burning  pile.  For  if  we  expose  not  oui 
selves  to  fire  here,  we  must  needs  be  burnei 
there,  it  cannot  be  otherwise ;  "  For  the  day  c 
the  Lord  is  revealed  by  fire."  (i  Cor.  iii.  13. 
Better  is  it  that  ye  be  burned  for  a  little  spac 
by  our  words,  than  for  ever  in  that  flame.  Tha 
this  will  indeed  be  so,  is  plain,  and  I  have  oft 
times  given  you  reasons  s  which  cannot  be  gain 
said.  We  ought  truly  to  be  persuaded  from  th 
Scriptures,  but  forasmuch  as  some  are  conten 
tious,  we  have  also  brought  forward  many  argu 
ments  from  reason.  Nothing  hinders  that 
now  mention  them,  and  what  were  they?  Go< 
is  just.  We  all  acknowledge  this,  both  Greek 
and  Jews,  and  Heretics,  and  Christians.  Bu 
many  sinners  have  had  their  departure  withou 
punishment,  many  righteous  men  have  had  thei 
departure  after  suffering  ten  thousand  grievou 
things.  If  then  God  be  just,  where  will  He  re 
ward  their  good  to  the  one,  and  their  punish 
ment  to  the  other,  if  there  be  no  hell,  if  then 
be  no  resurrection?  This  reason  then  do  y< 
constantly  repeat4  to  them  and  to  yourselves 
and  it  will  not  suffer  you  to  disbelieve  the  resur 
rection,  and  whoso  disbelieves  not  the  resurrec 
tion  will  take  care  to  live  with  all  heed  so  as  t< 
obtain  eternal  happiness,  of  which  may  we  all  b< 
counted  worthy,  by  the  grace  and  lovingkind 
ness  of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  with  whom,  &c. 


HOMILY  VII. 

Philippians  ii.  5-1 1. 


"  Have  this  mind  in  you  which  was  also  in  Christ  Jesus : 
who,  being  in  the  form  of  God,  counted  it  not  a 
prize  to  be  on  an  equality  with  God;  but  emptied 
Himself,  taking  upon  Him  the  form  of  a  servant, 
being  made  in  the  likeness  of  men:  and  being 
found  in  fashion  as  a  man,  He  humbled  Himself, 
becoming  obedient  unto  death,  yea,  the  death  of 
the  cross.  Wherefore  also  God  highly  exalted 
Him,  and  gave  Him  the  Name  which  is  above  every 
name :  that  in  the  Name  of  Jesus  every  knee  should 
bow,  of  things  in  heaven,  and  things  on  earth,  and 
things  under  the  earth ;  and  that  every  tongue  should 
confess  that  Jesus  Christ  is  Lord,  to  the  glory  of 
God  the  Father." 

I  have  stated  the  views  of2  the  heretics.  It 
is  befitting  that  I  now  speak  of  what  is  our  own. 
They  say  that  the  words,  "  He  counted  it  not  a 

1  Al.  "  is  the  very  thing  that  gives  occasion  to  our  souls  to  fly 
from  sins." 

*  [So  Field,  after  the  Catena  alone,  instead  of  "I  have  said  all 
that  pertains  to  the  heretics  "  (irapa,  irepi).  The  text  of  Field  looks 
strange  at  first,  but  well  suits  what  follows,  and  so  is  probably 
correct. — J.  A.  B.] 


prize,"  are  of  wrongfully  seizing.5  We  have 
proved,  that  this  is  altogether  vapid  and  imper 
tinent,  for  no  man  would  exhort  another  tc 
humility  on  such  grounds,  nor  in  this  sort  does 
he  praise  God,  or  even  man.  What  is  it  then, 
beloved  ?  Give  heed  to  what  I  now  say.  Since 
many  men  think,  that,  when  they  are  lowly, 
they  are  deprived  of  their  proper  right,  and 
debased,  Paul,  to  take  away  this  fear,  and  tc 
show  that  we  must  not  be  affected  thus,  says 
that  God,  the  only  begotten,  who  was  in  the 
form  of  God,  who  was  no  whit  inferior  to  the 
Father,  who  was  equal  to  Him,  "  counted  it  not 
a  prize  to  be  on  an  equality  with  God." 

Now  learn  what  this  meaneth.  Whatsoever  a 
man  robs,  and  takes  contrary  to  his  right,  he 

3  See  on  Rom.  xvi.  16,  Horn,  xxxi.(  Tr.  p.  556. 

4  *areir<p itre,  sing  as  a  charm. 

5  Meaning,  "  He  thought  it  not  a  robbery  for  himself  to  commit." 
The  phrase  being  always  used  in  the  sense  of  "  a  gain.*'  Our  Ian* 
guage  does  not  seem  capable  of  expressing  it  exactly. 


Homily  VH.] 


HOMILIES   ON    PHILIPPIANS. 


213 


dares  not  lay  aside,  from  fear  lest  it  perish,  and 
fall  from  his  possession,  but  he  keeps  hold  of  it 
continually.      He  who   possesses  some  dignity 
which  is  natural  to  him,  fears  not  to  descend 
from  that  dignity,  being  assured  that  nothing  of 
this  sort  will  happen  to  him.     As  for  example, 
Absalom  usurped   the  government,  and  dared 
not  afterwards  to  lay  it  aside.    We  will  go  to 
another  example,  but  if  example  cannot  present 
the  whole  matter  to  you,  take  it  not  amiss,  for 
this  is  the  nature  of  examples,  they  leave  the 
greater  part  for  the  imagination  to  reason  out. 
A  man  rebels  against  his  sovereign,  and  usurps 
the  kingdom :  he  dares  not  lay  aside  and  hide 
the  matter,  for  if  he  once  hide  it,  straightway  it 
is  gone.     Let  us  also  take  another  example ;  if 
a  roan  takes  anything  violently,  he  keeps  firm 
hold  of  it  continually,  for  if  he  lay  it  down,  he 
straightway  loses  it.     And   generally  speaking, 
they  who  have  aught  by  rapine  are  afraid  to  lay 
it  by,  or  hide  it,  or  not  to  keep  constantly  in 
that  state  which  they  have  assumed.     Not  so 
they,  who   have  possessions  not  procured  by 
rapine,  as  Man,  who   possesses  the   dignity  of 
being  a  reasonable  being.     But  here  examples 
fail  me,  for  there  is  no  natural  preeminence 
amongst  us,  for  no  good  thing  is  naturally  our 
own;  but  they  are   inherent  in  the  nature  of 
God.  What  does  one  say  then?    That  the  Son 
of  God  feared  not  to  descend  from  His  right, 
for  He  thought  not  Deity  a  prize  seized.     He 
was  not  afraid  that  any  would  strip  Him  of  that 
nature  or  that  right,  Wherefore  He  laid  it1  aside, 
being  confident  that  He  should  take  it  up  again. 
He  hid  it,  knowing  that  He  was  not  made  in- 
ferior by  so  doing.     For  this  cause,  Paul  says 
not, "  He  seized  not,"  but,  "  He  counted  it  not 
a  prize" ;  He  possessed  not  that  estate  by  seizure, 
but  it  was  natural,  not  conferred,2  it  was  endur- 
ing and  safe.    Wherefore  he  refused  not  to  take 
the  form  of  an  inferior.3    The  tyrant  fears  to 
lay  aside  the  purple  robe  in  war,  while  the  king 
does  it  with  much   safety.     Why  so?  because 
he  holds  his  power  not  as  a  matter  of  seizure. 
He  did  not  refuse  to  lay  it  aside,  as  one  who 
had  usurped  it,  but  since  He  had  it  as  His.  own 
by  nature,  since  it  could  never  be  parted  from 
Him,  He  hid  it. 

This  equality  with  God  He  had  not  by  seizure, 
but  as  his  own  by  nature.  Wherefore  "  He 
emptied  Himself."  Where  be  they  who  affirm, 
that  He  underwent  constraint,  that  He  was  sub- 
jected? Scripture  says,  "  He  emptied  Himself, 
He  humbled  Himself,  and  became  obedient  unto 
death."  How  did  He  empty  Himself?  By  tak- 
ing "  the  form  of  a  servant,  being  made  in  the 

\  The  word  is  neuter,  and  refers  only  to  "  right "  (d£iwfx<0  •  Some 
copiei  omit '•  nature." 

1  Wofirfjnjr,  which  would  imply  an  "  act "  of  giving. 

'  vvMYiffrwr,  a  soldier  of  the  ranks,  who  attended  on  an  officer. 
Hood,  v.  m.    Xcn.  Anab.  »▼.  a,  ai. 


likeness  of  men,  and  being  found  in  fashion  as 
a  man."  It  is  written,  "  He  emptied  Himself" 
in  reference  to  the  text,  "  each  counting  other 
better  than  himself."  Since  had  He  been  sub- 
jected, had  He  not  chosen  it  of  His  own  accord, 
and  of  His  own  free  will,  it  would  not  have  been 
an  act  of  humility.  For  if  He  knew  not  that  so 
it  must  be,  He  would  have  been  imperfect.  If, 
not  knowing  it,  He  had  waited  for  the  time  of 
action,  then  would  He  not  have  known  the  sea- 
son. But  if  He  both  knew  that  so  it  must  be, 
and  when  it  must  be,  wherefore  should  He  sub- 
mit to  be  subjected?  To  show,  they  say,  the 
superiority  of  the  Father.  But  this  shows  not 
the  superiority  of  the  Father,  but  His  own  infe- 
riority. For  is  not  the  name  of  the  Father  suf- 
ficient to  show  the  priority  of  the  Father  ?  For 
apart  from  Him,  the  son  has  all  the  same  things. 
For  this  honor  is  not  capable  of  passing  from 
the  Father  to  the  Son. 

What  then  say  the  heretics?  See,  say  they, 
He  did  not  become  man.  The  Marcionites,  I 
mean.4  But  why?  He  was  "  made  in  the  like- 
ness of  man."  But  how  can  one  be  "  made  in 
the  likeness  of  men  "?  by  putting  on  a  shadow? 
But  this  is  a  phantom,  and  no  longer  the  likeness 
of  a  man,  for  the  likeness  of  a  man  is  another 
man.  And  what  wilt  thou  answer  to  John,  when 
he  says,  "  The  Word  became  flesh  "  ?  (John  i. 
14.)  But  this  same  blessed  one  himself  also 
says  in  another  place,  "  in  the  likeness  of  sinful 
flesh."  (Rom.  viii.  3.) 

"  And  being  found  in  fashion  as  a  man."  See, 
they  say,  both  "  in  fashion,"  and  "  as  a  man."  To 
be  as  a  man,  and  to  be  a  man  in  fashion,  is  not 
to  be  a  man  indeed.  To  be  a  man  in  fashion  is 
not  to  be  a  man  by  nature.  See  with  what  in- 
genuousness I  lay  down  what  our  enemies  say, 
for  that  is  a  brilliant  victory,  and  amply  gained, 
when  we  do  not  conceal  what  seem  to  be  their 
strong  points.  For  this  is  deceit  rather  than 
victory.  What  then  do  they  say?  let  me  repeat 
their  argument.  To  be  a  man  in  fashion  is  not 
to  be  a  man  by  nature  ;  and  to  be  as  a  man,  and 
in  the  fashion  of  a  man,  this  is  not  to  be  a  man. 
So  then  to  take  the  form  of  a  servant,  is  not  to 
take  the  form8  of  a  servant.  Here  then  is  an  in- 
consistency ;  and  wherefore'  do  you  not  first  of 
all  solve  this  difficulty?  For  as  you  think  that 
this  contradicts  us,  so  do  we  say  that  the  other 
contradicts  you.  He  says  not,  "  as  the  form  of 
a  servant,"  nor  "  in  the  likeness  of  the  form  of  a 
servant,"  nor  "  in  the  fashion  of  the  form  of  a 
servant,"  but  "  He  took  the  form  of  a  servant." 
What  then  is  this?  for  there  is  a  contradiction. 
There  is  no  contradiction.  God  forbid  !  it  is  a 
cold   and  ridiculous  argument   of  theirs.     He 

4  [These  dramatic  and  characteristic  utterances  are  smoothed 
down  in  the  altered  text. — J.  A.  B.] 
«  Old  Lat.  "  nature." 


214 


WORKS   OF   ST.   CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  VII. 


took,  say  they,  the  form  of  a  servant,  when  He 
girded  Himself  with  a  towel,  and  washed  the 
feet'  of  His  disciples.  Is  this  the  form  of  a  ser- 
vant ?  Nay,  this  is  not  the  form,  but  the  work 
of  a  servant.  It  is  one  thing  that  there  should 
be  the  work  of  a  servant,  and  another  to  take 
the  form  of  a  servant.  Why  did  he  not  say,  He 
did  the  work  of  a  servant,  which  were  clearer? 
But  nowhere  in  Scripture  is  "  form "  put  for 
"  work,"  for  the  difference  is  great :  the  one  is 

.  the  result  of  nature,  the  other  of  action.  In 
common  speaking,  too,  we  never  use  "  form  " 
for  "work."  Besides,  according  to  them,  He 
did  not  even  take  the  work  of  a  servant,  nor 
even  gird  Himself.  For  if  all  was  a  mere  shadow, * 
there  was  no  reality.  If  He  had  not  real  hands, 
how  did  He  wash  their  feet?  If  He  had  not 
real  loins,  how  did  He  gird  Himself  with  a 
towel?  and  what  kind  of  garments  did  he  take? 
for  •  Scripture  says,  "  He  took  His  garments." 
(John  xiii.  12.)  So  then  not  even  the  work  is 
found  to  have  really  taken  place,  but  it  was  all 
a  deception,  nor  did  He  even  wash  the  disciples. 
For  if  that  incorporeal  nature  did  not  appear, 
it  *  was  not  in  a  body.  Who  then  washed  the 
disciples'  feet? 

Again,  what  in  opposition  to  Paul  of4Samosata? 
for  whaj  did  he  affirm  ?  The  very  same.  But 
it  is  no  emptying  of  Himself,  that  one  who  is  of 
human  nature,  and  a  mere  man,  should  wash  his 
fellow- servants.  For  what  we  said  against  the 
Arians,  we  must  repeat  against  these  too,  for 
they  differ  not  from  one  another,  save  by  a  little 
space  of  time ;  both  the  one  and  the  other 
affirm  the  Son  of  God  to  be  a  creature.  What 
then  shall  we  say  to  them  ?  If  He  being  a  man 
washed  man,  He  emptied  not,  He  humbled  not 
Himself.     If  He  being  a   man   seized  not   on 

.  being  equal  with  God,  He  is  not  deserving  of 
praise.  That  God  should  become  man,  is  great, 
unspeakable,  inexpressible  humility;  but  what 
humility  is  there  in  that  one,  who  was  a  man, 
should  do  the  works  of  men  ?  And  where  is  the 
work  of  God  ever  called  "  the  form  of  God  "  ? 
for  if  he  were  a  mere  man,  and  was  called 
the  form  of  God  by  reason  of  His  works,  why 
do  we  not  do  the  same  of  Peter,  for  he  wrought 
greater  deeds  than  Christ  Himself?  Why  say 
you  not  of  Paul,  that  he  had  the  form  of  God  ? 
Why  did  not  Paul  give  an  example  of  himself, 
for  he  wrought  a  thousand  servile  works,  and 
did  not  even  refuse  to  say,  "  For  we  preach  not 
ourselves,  but  Christ  Jesus  as  Lord,  and  ourselves 
as  your  servants  for  Jesus'  sake."  (2  Cor.  iv.  5.) 
These  are  absurdities  and  trifles  !     Scripture 


1  [He  refers  to  the  various  Docetic  theories,  that  the  body  of 
Christ  was  only  an  appearance.  — J.  A.  B.] 

*  Or  He.  The  sense  is  difficult.  Old  Lat.  "  For  if  He  was  an  in- 
corporeal being,  He  was  not  seen,  He  was  not  in  a  body."  Ben. 
Lat.  omits  the  first  "  not,"  and  has  "  and  was  not,"  but  without 
Greek  authority. 


says,  He  "emptied  Himself."  How  did  He 
empty  Himself  ?  tell  me.  What  was  His  empty- 
ing ?  what  His  humiliation  ?  was  it  because  He 
wrought  wonders?  This  both  Paul  and  Peter 
did,  so  that  this  was  not  peculiar  to  the  Son. 
What  then  means,  "  Being  made  in  the  likeness 
of  men  "  ?  He  had  many  things  belonging  to 
us,  and  many  He  had  not ;  for  instance,  He 
was  not  born  of  wedlock.  He  did  no  sin. 
These  things  had  He  which  no  man  has.  He 
was  not  what  he  seemed  only,  but  He  was  God 
also ;  He  seemed  to  be  a  man,  but  He  was  not 
like  the  mass  of  men.  For  He  was  like  them  in 
flesh.  He  means  then,  that  He  was  not  a  mere 
man.  Wherefore  he  says,  "in  the  likeness  of 
men."  "For  we  indeed  are  soul  and  body,  but 
He  was  God,  and  soul  and  body,  wherefore  he 
says,  "  in  the  likeness."  For  lest  when  you  hear 
that  He  emptied  Himself,  you  should  think  that 
some  change,  and  degeneracy,  and  loss  is  here  ; 
he  says,  whilst  He  remained  what  He  was,  He 
took  that  which  He  was  not,  and  being  made 
flesh  He  remained  God,  in  that  He  was  the 
Word.     (John  i.  14.) 

In  this  then  He  was  like  man,  and  for  this 
cause  Paul  says,  "and  in  fashion."  Not  that 
His  nature  degenerated,  nor  that  any  confusion 
arose,  but  He  became  man  in  fashion.  For 
when  He  had  said  that  "  He  took  the  form  of  a 
servant,"  he  made  bold8  to  say  this  also,  seeing 
that  the  first  would  silence  all  objectors ;  since 
when  he  says,  "  In  the  likeness  of  sinful  flesh," 
he  says  not  that  He  had  not  flesh,  but  that  that 
flesh  sinned  not,  but  was  like  to  sinful  flesh. 
Like  in  what?  in  nature,  not  in  sin,  therefore 
was  His  like  a  sinful  soul.  As  then  in  the  former 
case  the  term  similarity  was  used,  because  He 
was  not  equal*  in  everything,  so  here  also  there  is 
similarity,  because  He  is  not  equal  in  everything, 
as  His  not  being  born  of  wedlock,  His  being 
without  sin,  His  being  not  a  mere  man.  And 
he  well  said  "  as  a  man,"  for  He  was  not  one  of 
the  many,  but  "  as  "  one  of  the  many.  The 
Word  who  was  God  did  not  degenerate  into 
man,  nor  was  His  substance  changed,  but  he 
appeared  as  a  man;  not  to  delude  us  with  a 
phantom,  but  to  instruct  us  in  humility.  When 
therefore  he  says,  "  as  a  man,"  this  is  what  He 
means;  since  he  calls  Him  a  man  elsewhere 
also,  when  he  says,  "there  is  one  God,  one 
Mediator  also  between  God  and  men,  Himself 
man,  Christ  Jesus."     (1  Tim.  ii.  5.) 

Thus  much  against  these  heretics.  I  must  now 
speak  against  such  as  deny  that  He  took  a  soul* 
If  "  the  form  of  God  "  is  "  perfect  God,"  them 
the  "  form  of  a  servant "  is  "  a  perfect  servant.'* 
Again,  against  the  Arians.    Here  concerning  His 

*  i.e.  without  fear  of  giving  countenance  to  the  Docetae  or  Ma«" 
cionites,  as  he  had  used  so  strong  an  expression  of  reality ;  or  as  ort 
the  next  page. 

4  The  ApoUinarian  heresy. 


Homily  VII.] 


HOMILIES   ON   PHILIPPIANS. 


215 


divinity,  we  no  longer  find  "  He  became,"  "  He 
took,"  but  "He  emptied  Himself,  taking  the 
form  of  a  servant,  being  made  in  the  likeness  of 
men " ;  here  concerning  his  humanity  we  find 
"  He  took,  He  became."  He  became  the  latter, 
He  took  the  latter ;  He  was  the  former.  Let  us 
not  then  confound  nor  divide  the  natures.  There 
is  one  God,  there  is  one  Christ,  the  Son  of  God  ; 
when  I  say  "  One,"  I  mean  a  union,  not  a  con- 
fusion ;  the  one  Nature  did  not  degenerate  into 
the  other,  but  was  united  with  it. 

"He  humbled    Himself,  becoming  obedient 
unto  death,  yea,  the  death  of  the  cross."     See, 
says  one,  He  voluntarily  became  obedient ;  he 
was  not  equal  to  Him  whom  He  obeyed.     O 
ye  obstinate  ones  and  unwise  !     This  doth  not 
at  all  lower  Him.     For  we  too  become  obedient 
to  our  friends,  yet  this  has  no  effect.    He  became 
obedient  as  a  Son  to  His  Father ;  He  fell  not 
thus  into  a  servile  state,  but   by  this  very  act 
above  all  others  guarded  his  wondrous  Sonship, 
by  thus  greatly  honoring  the  Father.     He  hon- 
ored the  Father,  not  that  thou  shouldest  dis- 
honor Him,  but  that  thou  shouldest  the  rather 
admire  Him,  and  learn  from  this  act,  that  He  is 
a  true  Son,  in  honoring  His  Father  more  than 
•  all  besides.     No  one  hath  thus  honored  God. 
As  was  His  height,  such  was  the  correspondent 
humiliation  which   He  underwent.     As   He   is 
greater  than  all,  and  no  one  is  equal  to  Him,  so 
in  honoring  His  Father,  He  surpassed  all,  not 
v  by  necessity,  nor  unwillingly,  but  this  too  is  part 
of  His  excellence ;  yea,  words  fail  me.     Truly 
it  is  a  great  and   unspeakable  thing,  that  He 
became  a  servant ;  that  He  underwent  death,  is 
far  greater ;  but  there  is  something  still  greater, 
and  more  strange;   why?    All  deaths  are   not 
alike ;  His  death  seemed  to  be  the  most  igno- 
minious of  all,  to  be  full  of  shame,  to  be  accursed  ; 
for  it  is  written,  "  Cursed  is  every  one  that  hang- 
eth  on  a  tree."     (Deut.  xxi.  23  ;  Gal.  iii.  13.) 
For  this  cause  the  Jews  also  eagerly  desired  to 
slay  Him  in  this  manner,  to  make  Him  a  re- 
proach, that  if  no  one  fell  away  from  Him  by 
reason  of  His  death,  yet  they  might  from  the  man- 
ner of  His  death.  For  this  cause  two  robbers  were 
crucified  with  Him,  and  He  in  the  midst,  that  He 
might  share  their  ill  repute,  and  that  the  Scrip- 
ture might  be  fulfilled,  "  And  he  was  numbered 
^th  the  transgressors."     (Isa.  liii.  12.)     Yet  so 
touch  the  more  doth  truth  shine  forth,  so  much 
the  more  doth  it  become  bright ;  for  when  His 
enemies  plot  such  things  against  His  glory,  and 
11  yet  shines  forth,  so  much  the  greater  does  the 
patter  seem.    Not  by  slaying  Him,  but  by  slay- 
"Jg  Him  in  such  sort  did  they  think  to  make 
Him  abominable,  to  prove  Him  more  abomina- 
te than  all  men,  but  they  availed  nothing.   And 
"°th  the  robbers  also  were  such  impious  ones, 
(for  it  was  afterward  that  the  one  repented,) 


that,  even  when  on  the  cross,  they  reviled  Him  ; 
neither  the  consciousness  of  their  own  sins,  nor 
their  present  punishment,  nor  their  suffering  the 
same  things  themselves,  restrained  their  mad- 
ness. Wherefore  the  one  spake  to  the  other, 
and  silenced  him  by  saying,  "  Dost  thou  not 
even  fear  God,  seeing  thou  art  in  the  same  con- 
demnation?" (Luke  xxiii.  40.)  So  great  was 
their  wickedness.  Wherefore  it  is  written,  "  God 
also  highly  exalted  Him,  and  gave  Him  the 
Name  which  is  above  every  name."  When  the 
blessed  Paul  hath  made  mention  of  the  flesh,  he 
fearlessly  speaks  of  all  His  humiliation.  For 
until  he  had  mentioned  that  He  took  the  form 
of  a  servant,  and  while  he  was  speaking  of  His 
Divinity,  behold  how  loftily  he  doth  it,  (loftily, 
I  say,  according  to  his  power;  for  he  speaks 
not  according  to  His  own  worthiness,  seeing 
that  he  is  not  able).  "Being  in  the  form  of 
God,  He  counted  it  not  a  prize  to  be  equal  with 
God."  But  when  he  had  said,  that  He  became 
Man,  henceforth  he  fearlessly  discourse th  of  His 
low  estate,  being  confident  that  the  mention  of 
His  low  estate  would  not  harm  His  Divinity, 
since  His  flesh  admitted  this. 

Ver.  9-1 1.  "Wherefore  also  God  highly  ex- 
alted Him,  and  gave  Him  the  Name  which  is 
above  every  name :  that  in  the  Name  of  Jesus 
every  knee  should  bow,  of  things  in  heaven,  and 
things  in  earth,  and  things  under  the  earth ;  and 
that  every  tongue  should  confess  that  Jesus 
Christ  is  Lord,  to  the  glory  of  God  the  Father." 
Let  us  say  against  the  heretics,  If  this  is  spoken 
of  one  who  was  not  incarnate,  if  of  God  the 
Word,  how  did  He  highly  exalt  Him?  Was  it 
as  if  He  gave  Him  something  more  than  He 
had  before?  He  would  then  have  been  imper- 
fect in  this  point,  and  would  have  been  made 
perfect  for  our  sakes.  For  if  He  had  not  done 
good  deeds  to  us,  He  would  not  have  obtained 
that  honor  !  "And  gave  Him  the  Name."  See, 
He  had  not  even  a  name,  as  you  say  !  But  how, 
if  He  received  it  as  His  due,  is  He  found  here 
to  have  received  it  by  grace,  and  as  a  gift  ?  And 
that  "  the  Name  which  is  above  every  name  "  : 
and  of  what  kind,  let  us  see,  is  the  Name  ?  "That 
at  the  Name  of  Jesus,"  saith  He,  "  every  knee 
should  bow."  They  (the  heretics)  explain  name 
by  glory.  This  glory  then  is  above  all  glory, 
and  this  glory  is  in  short  that  all  worship  Him  ! 
But  ye  hold  yourselves  far  off  from  the  greatness 
of  God,  who  think  that  ye  know  God,  as  He 
knoweth  Himself,  and  from  this  it  is  plain,  how 
far  off  ye  are  from  right  thoughts  of  God.  And 
this  is  plain  from  hence.  Is  this,  tell  me,  glory? 
Therefore  before  men  were  created,  before  the 
angels  or  the  archangels,  He  was  not  in  glory. 
If  this  be  the  glory  which  is  above  every  glory, 
(for  this  is  the  name  that  is  "  above  every 
name,")  though  He  were  in  glory  before,  yet 


2l6 


WORKS   OF   ST.   CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  VII. 


was  He  in  glory  inferior  to  this.  It  was  for  this 
then  that  He  made  the  things  that  are,  that  He 
might  be  raised  to  glory,  not  from  His  own  good- 
ness, but  because  He  required  glory  from  us ! 
See  ye  not  their  folly  ?  see  ye  not  their  impiety  ? 

Now  if  they  had  said  this  of  Him  that  was  in- 
carnate, there  had  been  reason,  for  God  the 
Word  allows  that  this  be  said  of  His  flesh.  It 
touches  not  His  divine  nature,  but  has  to  do 
altogether  with  the  dispensation.  What  means 
"  of  things  in  heaven,  and  things  in  the  earth, 
and  things  under  the  earth  "  ?  It  means  the 
whole  world,  and  angels,  and  men,  and  demons ; 
or  that  both  the  just  and  the  living  and  sinners, 

"  And  every  tongue,"  should  "  confess  that 
Jesus  Christ  is  Lord,  to  the  glory  of  God  the 
Father."  That  is,  that  all  should  say  so ;  and 
this  is  glory  to  the  Father.  Seest  thou  how 
wherever  the  Son  is  glorified,  the  Father  is  also 
glorified  ?  Thus  too  when  the  Son  is  dishonored, 
the  Father  is  dishonored  also.  If  this  be  so  with 
us,  where  the  difference  is  great  between  fathers 
and  sons,  much  more  in  respect  of  God,  where 
there  is  no  difference,  doth  honor  and  insult  pass 
on  to  Him.  If  the  world  be  subjected  to  the 
Son,  this  is  glory  to  the  Father.  And  so  when  we 
say  that  He  is  perfect,  wanting  nothing,  and  not 
inferior  to  the  Father,  this  is  glory  to  the  Father, 
that  he  begat  such  a  one.  This  is  a  great  proof 
of  His  power  also,  and  goodness,  and  wisdom, 
that  He  begat  one  no  whit  inferior,  neither  in 
wisdom  nor  in  goodness.  When  I  say  that  He 
is  wise  as  the  Father,  and  no  whit  inferior,  this 
is  a  proof  of  the  great  wisdom  of  the  Father ; 
when  I  say  that  He  is  powerful  as  the  Father, 
this  is  a  proof  of  the  Father's  power.  When  I 
say  that  He  is  good  as  the  Father,  this  is  the 
greatest  evidence  of  His  goodness,  that  He  be- 
gat such  (a  Son),  in  no  whit  less  or  inferior  to 
Himself.  When  I  say  that  He  begat  Him  not 
inferior  in  substance  but  equal,  and  not  of  an- 
other substance,  in  this  I  again  wonder  at  God, 
His  power,  and  goodness,  and  wisdom,  that  He 
hath  manifested  to  us  another,  of  Himseif,  such 
as  Himself,  except  in  His  not  being  the  Father. 
Thus  whatsoever  great  things  I  say  of  the  Son, 
pass  on  to  the  Father.  Now  if  this  small  and 
light  matter  (for  it  is  but  a  light  thing  to  God's 
glory  that  the  world  should  worship  Him)  is  to 
the  glory  of  God,  how  much  more  so  are  all 
those  other  things  ? 

Let  us  then  believe  to  His  glory,  let  us  live  to 
His  glory,  for  one  is  no  use  without  the  other ; 
when  we  glorify  Him  rightly,  but  live  not  rightly, 
then  do  we  especially  insult  Him,  because  we 
are  enrolled  under  Him  as  a  Master  and  Teacher, 
and  yet  despise  Him,  and  stand  in  no  dread  of 
that  fearful  judgment  seat.  It  is  no  wonder 
that  the  heathen  live  impurely ;  this  merits  not 
such  condemnation.     But  that  Christians,  who 


partake  in  such  great  mysteries,  who  enjoy  so 
great  glory,  that  they  should  live  thus  impurely, 
this  is  worst  of  all,  and  unbearable.  For  tell 
me ;  He  was  obedient  to  the  uttermost,  where- 
fore He  received  the  honor  which  is  on  high. 
He  became  a  servant,  wherefore  He  is  Lord  of 
all,  both  of  Angels,  and  of  all  other.  Let  us  too 
not  suppose  then  that  we  descend  from  what  is 
our  due,  when  we  humble  ourselves.  For  thus 
may  we  be  more  highly  exalted ;  and  with 
reason;  then  do  we  especially  become  admi- 
rable. For  that  the  lofty  man  is  really  low, 
and  that  the  lowly  man  is  exalted,  the  sen- 
tence of  Christ  sufficiently  declares.  Let  us 
however  examine  the  matter  itself.  W:hat  is  it  to 
be  humbled  ?  Is  it  not  to  be  blamed,  to  be  ac- 
cused, and  calumniated?  What  is  it  to  be  ex- 
alted? It  is  to  be  honored,  to  be  praised,  to 
be  glorified.  Well.  Let  us  see  how  the  matter 
is.  Satan  was  an  angel,  he  exalted  himself.  | 
What  then?  was  he  not  humbled  beyond  all 
other  ?  has  he  not  the  earth  as  his  place  ?  is  he 
not  condemned  and  accused  by  all  ?  Paul  was 
a  man,  and  humbled  himself.  What  then  ?  is  he 
not  admired?  is  he  not  praised?  is  he  not 
lauded  ?  is  he  not  the  friend  of  Christ  ?  Wrought 
he  not  greater  things  than  Christ?  did  he  not 
ofttimes  command  the  devil  as  a  captive  slave  ? 
did  he  not  carry  him  about  as  an  executioner?1 
did  he  not  hold  him  up  to  scorn  ?  held  he  not  his 
head  bruised  under  his  feet?  did  he  not  with 
much  boldness  beg  of  God  that  others  too  might 
do  the  same  ?  Why  am  I  saying  ?  Absalom  ex- 
alted himself,  David  humbled  himself;  which  of 
the  twain  was  raised  up,  which  became  glorious  ? 
For  what  could  be  a  more  evident  proof  of 
humility  than  these  words  which  that  blessed 
Prophet  spoke  of  Shimei,  "  Let  him  curse,  for 
the  Lord  hath  bidden  him."  (2  Sam.  xvi.  11.) 
And  if  you  please,  we  will  examine  the  very 
cases  themselves.2  The  Publican  humbled  him- 
self, although  the  case  can  hardly  be  called  hu- 
mility; but  how?  He  answered  in  a  right- 
minded  manner.  The  Pharisee  exalted  himself. 
What  then?  let  us  also  examine  the  matters. 
Let  there  be  two  men,  both  rich,  and  highly 
honored,  and  elevated  by  wisdom  and  power, 
and  other  worldly  advantages ;  then  let  one  of 
them  seek  honor  from  all,  let  him  be  angry  if  he 
receive  it  not,  let  him  require  more  than  is  due 
and  exalt  himself;  let  the  other  despise  the 
whole  matter,  bear  himself  unkindly  towards  no 
one  on  this  account,  and  evade  honor  when 
offered  to  him.     For  it  is  not  possible  to  obtain 

1  See  on  i  Tim.  i.  30,  Horn.  v.  (a),  where  he  says  that  Satan 
seems  to  have  been  "  forced  "  to  execute  judgment. 

*  [This  somewhat  obscure  sentence  is  omitted  in  the  Oxford  tr.. 
on  the  authority  of  one  MS.,  with  brackets  in  Savile's  edition.  The 
tr.  was  much  influenced  by  this  MS.,  which  is  in  the  British  Museum. 
and  had  been  collated  for  him ;  but  Field's  digest  shows  that  it  beloncs 
to  an  inferior  group,  though  its  individual  readings  sometimes  com- 
mend themselves,  and  especially  its  readings  when  supported  by  the 
Catena.     The  tr.  calls  it  B,  Field  calls  it  C.  —J.  A.  B.J 


Homily  VII.] 


HOMILIES   ON   PHILIPPIANS. 


217 


glory  any  other  way  than  by  fleeing  from  glory, 
for  as  long  as  we  pursue  it,  it  flies  from  us,  but 
when  we  flee  from  it,  then  it  pursues  us.     If 
thou  wouldest  be  glorious,  do  not  desire  glory. 
If  thou  wouldest  be  lofty,  do  not  make  thyself 
lofty.    And  further,  all  honor  him  who  does  not 
grasp  at  honor,  but  spurn  him  who  seeks  it.    For 
the  human  race  somehow  or  other  is  fond  of 
contention,  and  leans  to  contrary  feeling.     Let 
us  therefore  despise  glory,  for  thus  we  shall  be 
enabled  to  become  lowly,  or  rather  to  become 
exalted.     Exalt  not  thyself,  that  thou  mayest  be 
exalted  by  another ;  he  that  is  exalted  by  him- 
self is  not  exalted  by  others,  he  who  is  humbled 
by  himself  is  not  humbled  by  others.     Haughti- 
ness is  a  great  evil,  it  is  better  to  be  a  fool  than 
haughty ;  for  in  the  one  case,  the  folly  is  only  a 
perversion  of  intellect,  but  in  the  other  case  it  is 
still  worse,  and  is  folly  joined  with  madness  :  the 
\  fool  is  an  evil  to  himself;  but  the  haughty  man 
is  a  plague  to  others  too.    This  misery  comes 
of  senselessness.   One  cannot  be  haughty- minded 
without  being  a  fool ;  and  he  that  is  brimfuU  of 
folly  is  haughty. 

Listen  to  the  Wise  Man,  who  says,  "  I  saw  a 
man  wise  in  his  own  conceit ;   there  is  more 
hope  of  a  fool  than  of  him."     (Prov.  xxvi.  12.) 
Seest  thou  how  it  was  not  without  reason  I  said, 
that  the  evil  of  which  I  am  speaking  is  worse 
than  that  of  folly,  for  it  is  written,  "  There  is  more 
hope  of  a  fool  than  of  him"?  Wherefore,  Paul 
too  said,  "  Be  not  wise  in  your  own  conceits.* ' 
(Rom.  xii.  16.)     Tell  me  what  description  of 
bodies  do  we  say  are  in  good  health,  those  which 
are  much  inflated,  and  are  inwardly  full  of  much 
air  and  water,  or  those  which  are  kept  low,  and 
have  their  surface  such  as  marks  restraint?     It 
is  manifest  that  we  should  choose  the  latter.   So, 
too  with  the  soul,  that  which  is  puffed  up  has  a 
worse  disease  than  dropsy,  whilst  that  which  is 
under  restraint  is  freed  from  all  evil.     How  great 
then  are  the  good  things  which  lowliness  of  mind 
bringeth  to  us  !   What  wouldest  thou  have  ?  For- 
bearance? freedom  from  anger?  love  to  our  fel- 
low-men? soberness?  attentiveness ?    All  these 
good  things  spring  from  lowly- mindedness,  and 
their  contraries  from  haughtiness  :  the  haughty 
roan  must  needs  be  also  insolent,  a  brawler, 
wrathful,  bitter,  sullen,  a  beast  rather  than  a 
roan.     Art  thou  strong,   and   proud   thereat? 
Thou  shouldest  rather  be  humble  on  this  ac- 
count.   Why  art   thou  proud   for  a  thing  of 
nought?    For  even  a  lion  is  bolder  than  thou, 
a  wOd  boar  is  stronger,  and  thou  art  not  even  as 
a  fly  in  comparison  with  them.     Robbers  too, 
and  violaters  of  tombs,  and  gladiators,  and  even 
thine  own  slaves,  and  those  perchance  who  are 
rowe  stupid  still,  are  stronger  than  thou.      Is 
this  then  a  fit  subject  for  praise  ?  Art  thou  proud 
of  such  a  matter?    Bury  thyself  for  shame  ! 


But  art  thou  handsome  and  beautiful?  This 
is  the  boast  of  crows  !  Thou  art  not  fairer  than 
the  peacock,  as  regards  either  its  color  or  its 
plumage ;  the  bird  beats  thee  in  plumage,  it  far 
surpasseth  thee  in  its  feathers  and  in  its  color. 
The  swan  too  is  passing  fair,  and  many  other 
birds,  with  whom  if  thou  art  compared  thou 
wilt  see  that  thou  art  nought.  Often  too  worth- 
less boys,  and  unmarried  girls,  and  harlots,  and 
effeminate  men  have  had  this  boast ;  is  this  then 
a  cause  for  haughtiness?  But  art  thou  rich? 
Whence  so?  what  hast  thou?  Gold,  silver, 
precious  stones  !  This  is  the  boast  of  robbers 
also,  of  man-slayers,  of  those  who  work  in  the 
mines.  That  which  is  the  labor  of  criminals 
becomes  to  thee  a  boast !  But  dost  thou  adorn 
and  deck  thyself  out?  Well,  we  may  see  horses 
also  decked  out,  and  among  the  Persians  camels 
too,  and  as  for  men,  all  those  who  are  about  the 
stage.  Art  thou  not  ashamed  to  boast  thyself 
of  these  things,  if  unreasoning  animals,'  and 
slaves,  and  man-slayers,  and  effeminate,  and 
robbers,  and  violaters  of  tombs,  share  with  thee  ? 
Dost  thou  build  splendid  palaces?  and  what  of 
this?  Many  jackdaws  dwell  in  more  splendid 
houses,  and  have  more  noble  retreats.  Dost 
thou  not  see  how  many,  who  were  mad  after 
money,  have  built  houses  in  fields  and  desert 
places,  that  are  retreats  for  jackdaws  ?  But  art 
thou  proud  on  account  of  thy  voice.  Thou 
canst  by  no  means  sing  with  clearer  and  sweeter 
tones  than  the  swan  or  the  nightingale.  Is  it 
for  thy  varied  knowledge  of  arts  ?  But  what  is 
wiser  than  the  bee  in  this ;  what  embroiderer, 
what  painter,  what  geometrician,  can  imitate  her 
works?  Is  it  for  the  fineness  of  thy  apparel? 
But  here  the  spiders  beat  thee.  Is  it  for  the 
swiftness  of  thy  feet?  Again  the  first  prize  is 
with  unreasoning  animals,  the  hare,  and  the 
gazelle,  and  all  the  beasts l  which  are  not  want- 
ing in  swiftness  of  foot.  Hast  thou  traveled 
much?  Not  more  than  the  birds  ;  their  transit 
is  more  easily  made,  they  have  no  need  of  pro- 
visions for  the  way,  nor  beasts  of  burden,  for 
their  wings  are  all-sufficient  for  them ;  this  is 
their  vessel,  this  their  beast  of  burden,  this  their 
car,  this  is  even  their  wind,  in  short,  all  that  a 
man  can  name.  But  art  thou  clear  sighted? 
Not  as  the  gazelle  ;  not  as  the  eagle.  Art  thou 
quick  of  hearing  ?  the  ass  is  more  so.  Of  scent  ? 
the  hound  suffers  thee  not  to  surpass  him.  Art 
thou  a  good  provider?  yet  thou  art  inferior  to 
the  ant.  Dost  thou  gather  gold?  Yet  not  as 
the  Indian  ants.  Art  thou  proud  because  of  thy 
health?  Unreasoning  creatures  are  far  better 
than  we  both  in  habit  of  body,  and  in  indepen- 
dence ;    they   fear  no   poverty.     "  Behold   the 


1  aroAci'irerat  it  better  with  a  word  after  it,  read  perhaps  uttjvwv, 
"  and  the  beasts  that  are  not  left  behind  by  the  birds  for  swiftness  cf 
foot." 


2l8 


WORKS   OF   ST.    CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  VII. 


birds  of  the  heaven,  that  they  sow  not,  neither 
do  they  reap,  nor  gather  into  barns."  (Matt, 
vi.  26.)  "And  surely,"  He  means,  "God  has 
not  created  the  irrational  animals  superior  to 
ourselves."  Dost  thou  mark  what  want  of  con- 
sideration is  here  ?  Dost  thou  observe  the  lack 
of  all  investigation?  Dost  thou  observe  the 
great  advantage  which  we  derive  from  an  inves- 
tigation of  the  points  ?  He,  whose  mind  is  lifted 
up  above  all  men,  is  found  to  be  even  lower  than 
the  irrational  creatures. 

But  we  will  have  pity  upon  him,  and  not  follow 
his  example ;  nor  because  the  limits  of  our  mor- 
tal nature  are  too  narrow  for  his  conceit  of  him- 
self, will  we  proceed  to  lower  him  to  the  level 
of  the  beasts  that  are  without  reason,  but  will 
lift  him  up  from  thence,  not  for  his  own  sake, 
for  he  deserves  no  better  fate,  but  that  we  may 
set  forth  the  lovingkindness  of  God,  and  the 
honor  which  He  has  vouchsafed  us.  For  there 
are  things,  yes,  there  are  things  wherein  the 
irrational  animals  have  no  participation  with  us. 
And  of  what  sort  are  these  ?  Piety,  and  a  life 
based  on  virtue.  Here  thou  canst  never  speak 
of  fornicators,  nor  of  effeminate  persons,  nor  of 
murderers,  for  from  them  we  have  been  severed. 
And  what  then  is  this  which  is  found  here  ?  We 
know  God,  His  Providence  we  acknowledge, 
and  are  embued  with  true  philosophy  concern- 
ing immortality.  Here  let  the  irrational  animals 
give  place.  They  cannot  contend  with  us  in 
these  points.  We  live  in  self-command.1  Here 
the  irrational  animals  have  nothing  in  common 
with  us.  For,  while  coming  behind  all  of  them, 
we  exercise  dominion  over  them;  for  herein 
lies  the  superiority  of  our  dominion,  that,  while 
coming  behind  them,  we  yet  reign  over  them : 
that  thou  mightest  be  instructed  that  the  cause 
of  these  things  is,  not  thyself,  but  God  who 
made  thee,  and  gave  thee  reason.  We  set  nets 
and  toils  for  them,  we  drive  them  in,  and  they 
are  at  our  mercy.    . 

Self-command,  a  compliant  temper,  mildness, 
contempt   of  money,   are   prerogatives   of  our 

1  <Tt*4>povovn9v>  The  word  may  be  used  of  sobriety,  chastity,  or 
moderation. 


race ;  but  since  thou  who  art  one  o  those 
blinded  by  presumption  hast  none  of  these,  thou 
doest  well  in  entertaining  notions  either  above 
the  level  of  mankind,  or  beneath  the  very  irra- 
tional creatures.  For  this  is  the  nature  of  folly 
and  of  audacity ;  it  is  either  unduly  elevated,  or 
on  the  other  hand  it  is  equally  depressed,  never 
observing  a  proper  proportion.  We  ar$  equal 
to  angels  in  this  respect,  that  we  have  a  King- 
dom pledged  to  us,  the  choir,2  unto  which  Christ 
is  joined.  He  that  is  a  man  may  be  scourged, 
yet  does  he  not  succumb.  A  man  laughs  at 
death,  is  a  stranger  to  fear  and  trembling,  he 
does  not  covet  more  than  he  has.  So  that  they 
all  who  are  not  like  this  are  beneath  the  irra- 
tional animals.  For  when  in  the  things  of  the 
body  thou  wouldest  have  the  advantage,  but  hast 
no  advantage  in  the  things  that  concern  the  soul, 
how  art  thou  aught  else  than  inferior  to  the  irra- 
tional animals?  For  bring  forward  one  of  the 
vicious  and  unthinking,  of  those  that  are  living 
in  excess  and  to  self.  The  horse  surpasses  him 
in  warlike  spirit,  the  boar  in  strength,  the  hare 
in  swiftness,  the  peacock  in  grace,  the  swan  in 
fineness  of  voice,  the  elephant  in  size,  the  eagle 
in  keenness  of  sight,  all  birds  in  wealth.  Whence 
then  dost  thou  derive  thy  title  to  rule  the  irra- 
tional creatures?  from  reason?  But  thou  hast 
it  not  ?  For  whosoever  ceases  to  make  a  due 
use  of  it,  is  again  inferior  to  them ;  for  when 
though  possessing  reason  he  is  more  irrational 
than  they,  it  had  been  better  if  he  had  never 
from  the  first  become  capable  of  exercising  rea- 
son. For  it  is  not  the  same  thing  after  having 
received  dominion  to  betray  the  trust,  as  to  let 
pass  the  season  to  receive  it.  That  sovereign, 
who  is  below  the  level  of  his  guards,  had  better 
never  have  had  on  the  purple.  And  it  is  the 
very  self-same  thing  in  this  case.  Knowing  then 
that  without  virtue  we  are  inferior  to  the  very 
irrational  animals,  let  us  exercise  ourselves 
therein,  that  we  may  become  men,  yea  rather 
angels,  and  that  we  may  enjoy  the  promised 
blessings,  through  the  grace  and  lovingkindness 
of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  with  whom,  &c. 

*  q  H.9T&.  X  xopci'a,  see  Rev.  xiv.  4. 


Howly  VIII.] 


HOMILIES   ON   PHILIPPIANS. 


219 


HOMILY   VIII. 


Phiuppians  ii.  12-16. 


"  So  then,  my  beloved,  even  as  ye  have  always  obeyed, 
not  as  in  my  presence  only,  but  now  much  more  in 
my  absence,  work  out  your  own  salvation  with  fear 
and  trembling;  for  it  is  God  which  worketh  in  you 
both  to  will  and  to  work  for  His  good  pleasure.  Do 
all  things  without  murmurings  and  disputings :  that 
ye  may  be  blameless  and  harmless,  children  of  God 
without  blemish  in  the  midst  of  a  crooked  and  per- 
verse generation,  among  whom  ye  are  seen  as  lights 
in  the  world,  holding  forth  the  word  of  life ;  that  I 
may  have  whereof  to  glory  in  the  day  of  Christ." 

The  admonitions  which  we  give  ought  to  be 
accompanied  with  commendations;  for  thus 
they  become  even  welcome,  when  we  refer  those 
whom  we  admonish  to  that  measure  of  zeal 
which  they  have  themselves  exhibited  ;  as  Paul, 
for  instance,  did  here ;  and  observe  with  what 
singular  discretion ;  "  So  then,  my  beloved,"  he 
says ;  he  did  not  say  simply  "  be  obedient,"  not 
until  he  had  first  commended  them  in  these 
words,  "  even  as  ye  have  always  obeyed  "  ;  i.e. 
"  it  is  not  other  men,  but  your  own  selves,  whom 
I  bid  you  take  example  by."  "  Not  as  in  my 
presence  only,  but  much  more  in  my  absence." 
And  why,  "  much  more  in  my  absence  "  ?  "  Ye 
seemed  perhaps  at  that  time  to  be  doing  every- 
thing out  of  respect  to  me,  and  from  a  principle 
of  shame,  but  that  is  no  longer  so ;  if  then  ye 
make  it  evident  that  ye  now  strive  more  earn- 
estly, it  is  also  made  evident  that  neither  then 
was  it  done  out  of  consideration  to  me,  but  for 
God's  sake."  Tell  me,  what  wouldest  thou? 
u  not  that  ye  give  heed  to  me,  but  that  ye  '  work 
out  your  own  salvation  with  fear  and  tremb- 
ling'"; for  it  is  impossible  for  one,  who  lives 
devoid  of  fear,  to  set  forth  any  high  or  com- 
manding example ;  and  he  said  not  merely 
"  with  fear,"  but  "  and  with  trembling,"  which 
is  an  excessive  degree  of  fear.  Such  fear  had 
Paul :  and  therefore  he  said,  I  fear  "  lest  having 
preached  to  others,  I  myself  should  be  rejected." 
(1  Cor.  ix.  27.)  For  if  without  the  aid  of  fear 
temporal  things  can  never  be  achieved,  how 
much  less  spiritual  matters ;  for  I  desire  to  know, 
who  ever  learnt  his  letters  without  fear  £  who  has 
become  a  proficient  in  any  art,  without  fear? 
But  if,  when  the  devil  does  not  lie  in  the  way, 
where  indolence  is  the  only  obstacle,  so  much 
of  fear  is  necessary  merely  in  order  that  we  may 
master  that  indolence  which  is  natural  to  us ; 
where  there  is  so  fierce  a  war,  so  great  hin- 
drances, how  can  we  by  any  possibility  be  saved 
without  fear? 

And  how  may  this  fear  be  produced  ?    If  we 


but  consider  that  God  is  everywhere  present, 
heareth  all  things,  seeth  all  things,  not  only 
whatsoever  is  done  and  said,  but  also  all  that 
is  in  the  heart,  and  in  the  depth  of  the  soul, 
for  He  is  "  quick  to  discern  the  thoughts  and 
intents  of  the  heart "  (Heb.  iv.  12),  if  we  so  dis- 
pose ourselves,  we  shall  not  do  or  say  or  imagine 
aught  that  is  evil.  Tell  me,  if  thou  hadst  to 
stand  constantly  near  the  person  of  a  ruler, 
wouldest  not  thou  stand  there  with  fear?  and 
how  standing  in  God's  presence,  dost  thou  laugh 
and  throw  thyself  back,  and  not  conceive  fear 
and  dread?  Let  it  never  be  that  thou  despisest 
His  patient  endurance,  for  it  is  to  bring  thee  to 
repentance  that  He  is  longsuffering.  Whenever 
thou  eatest,  consider  that  God  is  present,  for 
He  is  present ;  whenever  thou  art  preparing  to 
sleep,  or  giving  way  to  passion,  if  thou  art  rob- 
bing another,  or  indulging  in  luxury,  or  whatever 
thou  art  about,  thou  wilt  never  fall  into  laughter, 
never  be  inflamed  with  rage.  If  this  be  thy 
thought  continually,  thou  wilt  continually  be  in 
"fear  and  trembling,"  forasmuch  as  thou  art 
standing  beside  the  King.  The  architect,  though 
he  be  experienced,  though  he  be  perfectly  mas- 
ter of  his  art,  yet  stands  with  "  fear  and  trem- 
bling," lest  he  fall  down  from  the  building.  Thou 
too  hast  believed,  thou  hast  performed  many 
good  deeds,  thou  hast  mounted  high :  secure 
thyself,  be  in  fear  as  thou  standest,  and  keep  a 
wary  eye,  lest  thou  fall  thence.  For  manifold 
are  the  spiritual  sorts  of  wickedness  which  aim 
to  cast  thee  down.  (Eph.  vi.  12.)  "Serve  the 
Lord  with  fear,"  he  says,  "and  rejoice  unto  Him 
with  trembling."  (Ps.  ii.  11.)  And  how  is#  re- 
joicing compatible  with  "  trembling  "  ?  Yet  this, 
be  assured,  is  the  only  rejoicing ;  for  when  we 
perform  some  good  work,  and  such  as  beseemeth 
those  who  do  anything  "  with  trembling,"  then 
only  do  we  rejoice.  "  Work  out  your  own  sal- 
vation with  fear  and  trembling " :  he  says  not 
"work,"  but  "work  out,"  i.e.  with  much  earnest- 
ness, with  much  diligence ;  but  as  he  had  said, 
"  with  fear  and  trembling,"  see  how  he  relieves 
their  anxiety :  for  what  does  he  say  ?  "  It  is 
God  that  worketh  in  you."  Fear  not  because 
I  said,  "  with  fear  and  trembling."  I  said  it  not 
with  this  view,  that  thou  shouidest  give  up  in 
despair,  that  thou  shouidest  suppose  virtue  to 
be  somewhat  difficult  to  be  attained,  but  that 
thou  mightest  be  led  to  follow  after  it,  and  not 
spend  thyself  in  vain  pursuits ;  if  this  be  the 
case,  God  will  work  all  things.     Do  thou  be 


220 


WORKS   OF   ST.   CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  VIII. 


bold  ;  "  for  it  is  God  that  worketh  in  you."  If 
then  He  worketh,  it  is  our  part  to  bring  a  mind 
ever  resolute,  clenched  and  unrelaxed.  "  For 
it  is  God  that  worketh  in  you  both  to  will  and 
to  work."  "  If  He  does  Himself  work  in  us  to 
will,  how  dost  thou  exhort  us  ?  for  if  He  works 
Himself  even  the  will,  the  words,  which  you 
speak  to  us,  have  no  meaning,  'that  ye  have 
obeyed ' ;  for  we  have  not  '  obeyed ' ;  it  is 
without  meaning  that  thou  sayest,  'with  fear 
and  trembling ' ;  for  the  whole  is  of  God."  It 
was  not  for  this  that  I  said  to  you,  "  for  it  is  He 
that  worketh  in  you  both  to  will  and  to  work," 
but  my  object  was  to  relieve  your  anxiety.  If 
thou  wilt,  in  that  case  He  will  "  work  in  thee  to 
will."  Be  not  affrighted,  thou  art  not  worsted  ; 
both  the  hearty  desire  and  the  accomplishment 
are  a  gift  from  Him :  for  where  we  have  the 
will,  thenceforward  He  will  increase  our  will. 
For  instance,  I  desire  to  do  some  good  work : 
He  has  wrought  the  good  work  itself,  and  by 
means  of  it  He  has  wrought  also  the  will.  Or 
he  says  this  in  the  excess  of  his  piety,  as  when 
he  declares  that  our  well-doings  are  gifts  of 
grace. 

As  then,  when  he  calls  these  gifts,  he  does  not 
put  us  out  of  the  pale  of  free  will,  but  accords 
to  us  free  will,  so  when  he  says,  "  to  work  in  us 
to  will,"  he  does  not  deprive  us  of  free  will,  but 
he  shows  that  by  actually  doing  right  we  greatly 
increase  our  heartiness  in  willing.  For  as  doing 
comes  of  doing,  so  of  not  doing  comes  not  do- 
ing. Hast  thou  given  an  alms?  thou  art  the 
more  incited  to  give.  Hast  thou  refused  to 
give  ?  thou  art  become  so  much  the  more  disin- 
clined. Hast  thou  practiced  temperance  for  one 
day?  Thou  hast  an  incitement  for  the  next 
likewise.  Hast  thou  indulged  to  excess  ?  Thou 
hast  increased  the  inclination  to  self-indulgence. 
"  When  a  wicked  man  cometh  into  the  depth  of 
vice,  then  he  despises."  (Prov.  xviii.  3.)  As, 
then,  when  a  man  cometh  into  the  depth  of  in- 
iquity, he  turns  a  despiser ;  so  when  he  cometh 
into  the  depth  of  goodness,  he  quickens  his  ex- 
ertions. For  as  the  one  runs  riot  in  despair,  so 
the  second,  under  a  sense  of  the  multitude  of 
good  things,  exerts  himself  the  more,  fearing 
lest  he  should  lose  the  whole.  "  For  His 
good  pleasure,"  he  says,  that  is,  "  for  love's  sake," 
for  the  sake  of  pleasing  Him ;  to  the  end  that 
what  is  acceptable  to  Him  may  take  place  ;  that 
things  may  take  place  according  to  His  will. 
Here  he  shows,  and  makes  it  a  ground  of  con- 
fidence, that  He  is  sure  to  work  in  us,  for  it  is 
His  will  that  we  live  as  He  desires  we  should, 
and  if  He  desires  it,  He  Himself  both  worketh  j 
in  us  to  this  end,1  and  will  certainly  accomplish 

1  This  clause,  *rpb«  6i  rovro  avrb*  ivtpytl,  is  difficult.  Old  Lat. 
seems  to  have  used  cVayet,  making  the  sense,  "  and  thus  far  Himself 
instructs  us." 


it ;  for  it  is  His  will  that  we  live  aright.     Seest 
thou,  how  he  does  not  deprive  us  of  free  will  ? 

"  Do  all  things  without  murmurings  and  dis- 
putings."  The  devil,  when  he  finds  that  he  has 
no  power  to  withdraw  us  from  doing  right,  wishes 
to  spoil  our  reward  by  other  means.  For  he 
has  taken  occasion  to  insinuate  pride  or  vain- 
glory, or  if  none  of  these  things,  then  murmuring, 
or,  if  not  this,  misgivings.  Now  then  see  how 
Paul  sweeps  away  all  these.  He  said  on  the 
subject  of  humility  all  that  he  did  say,  to  over- 
throw pride ;  he  spoke  of  vainglory,  that  is, 
"  not  as  in  my  presence  only  " ;  he  here  speaks 
of  "murmuring  and  disputing."  But  why,  I 
want  to  know,  when  in  the  case  of  the  Corin-. 
thians  he  was  engaged  in  uprooting  this  evil 
tendency,  did  he  remind  them  of  the  Israelites, 
but  here  has  said  nothing  of  the  sort,  but  simply 
charged  them  ?  Because  in  that  case  the  mis- 
chief was  already  done,  for  which  reason  there 
was  need  of  a  more  severe  stroke  and  a  sharper 
rebuke ;  but  here  he  is  giving  admonitions  to 
prevent  its  being  done.  Severe  measures  then 
were  not  called  for  in  order  to  secure  those  that 
had  not  yet  been  guilty ;  as  in  leading  them  to 
humility  he  did  not  subjoin  the  instance  in  the 
Gospel,  wherein  the  proud  were  punished,  but 
laid  the  charge  as  from  God's  lips  (Luke  xvi. 
23?  xviii.  14?)  ;  and  he  addresses  them  as  freer 
as  children  of  pure  birth,  not  as  servants ;  for  in 
the  practice  of  virtue  a  rightminded  and  gener- 
ous person  is  influenced  by  those  who  do  well, 
but  one  of  bad  principles  by  those  who  do  not 
do  well ;  the  one  by  the  consideration  of  honor, 
the  other  of  punishment.  Wherefore  also  writ- 
ing to  the  Hebrews,  he  said,  bringing  forward 
the  example  of  Esau,  "Who  for  one  mess  of 
meat  sold  his  own  birthright"  (Heb.  xii.  16)  ; 
and  again,  "  if  he  shrink  back,  my  soul  hath  no 
pleasure  in  him."  (Heb.  x.  38.)  And  among 
the  Corinthians  were  many  who  had  been  guilty 
of  fornication.  Therefore  he  said,  "  Lest  when 
I  come  again  my  God  should  humble  me  before 
you,  and  I  should  mourn  for  many  that  have 
sinned  heretofore,  and  repented  not  of  the  un- 
cleanness,  and  fornication,  and  lasciviousness 
which  they  committed.  (2  Cor.  xii.  21.)  That 
ye  may  be  blameless,"  says  he,  "and  harmless"  ; 
i.e.  irreproachable,  unsullied ;  for  murmuring 
occasions  no  slight  stain.  And  what  means 
"  without  disputing "  ?  Is  it  good,  or  not 
good?  Do  not  dispute,  he  says,  though  it  be 
trouble,  or  labor,  or  any  thing  else  whatever. 
He  did  not  say,  "  that  ye  be  not  punished,"  for 
punishment  is  reserved  for  the  thing ;  and  this 
he  made  evident  in  the  Epistle  to  the  Corin- 
thians ;  but  here  he  said  nothing  of  the  sort ; 
but  he  says,  "That  ye  may  be  blameless  and 
harmless,  children  of  God  without  blemish,  in 
the  midst  of  a  crooked  and  perverse  generation, 


Homily  VIII.] 


HOMILIES   ON    PHILIPPIANS. 


221 


among  whom  ye  are  seen  as  lights  in  the  world, 
holding  forth  the  word  of  life,  that  I  may  have 
whereof  to  glory  in  the  day  of  Christ."    Observ- 
est  thou  that  he  is  instructing  these  not  to  mur- 
mur?   So  that  murmuring  is  left  for  unprincipled 
and  graceless  slaves.     For  tell  me,  what  manner 
of  son  is  that,  who  murmurs  at  the  very  time 
that  he  is  employed  in  the  affairs  of  his  father, 
and  is  working  for  his  own  benefit?     Consider, 
he  says,  that  you  are  laboring  for  yourself,  that 
it  is  for  yourself  that  you  are  laying  up  ;  it  is  for 
those  to  murmur,  when  others  profit  by  their 
labors,  others  reap  the  fruit,  while  they  bear  the 
burden;    but  he  that  is  gathering  for  himself, 
why  should  he  murmur?     Because   his  wealth 
does  not  increase  ?    But  it  is  not  so.    Why  does 
he  murmur  who  acts  of  free-will,  and  not  by 
constraint?     It  is  better  to  do  nothing  than  to 
do  it  with  murmuring,  for  even  the  very  thing 
itself  is  spoilt.     And  do  you  not  remark  that  in 
our  own  families  we  are  continually  saying  this  ; 
"it  were  better  for  these  things  never  to  be 
done,  than  to  have  them  done  with  murmur- 
ing"? and  we  had  often  rather  be  deprived  of 
the  services  some  one  owes  us,  than  submit  to 
the  inconvenience  of  his  murmuring.     For  mur- 
muring is  intolerable,  most  intolerable ;  it  bor- 
ders upon  blasphemy.    Otherwise  why  had  those 
men  to  pay  a  penalty  so  severe  ?     It  is  a  proof 
of  ingratitude ;  the  murmurer  is  ungrateful  to 
God,  but  whoso  is  ungrateful  to  God  does  there- 
by become  a  blasphemer.     Now  there  were  at 
that  time,  if  ever,  uninterrupted  troubles,  and 
dangers  without  cessation :  there  was  no  pause, 
no  remission :   innumerable  were   the   horrors, 
which  pressed  upon  them  from  all  quarters ;  but 
now  we  have  profound  peace,  a  perfect  calm. 

Wherefore  then  murmur  ?  Because  thou  art 
poor  ?  Yet  think  of  Job.  Or  because  sickness 
is  thy  lot?  What  then  if,  with  the  conscious- 
ness of  as  many  excellencies  and  as  high  attain- 
ments as  that  holy  man,  thou  hadst  been  so 
afflicted?  Again  reflect  on  him,  how  that  for 
a  long  time  he  never  ceased  to  breed  worms, 
sitting  upon  a  dunghill  and  scraping  his  sores ; 
for  the  account  says  that  "  (after  a  long  time 
had  passed,)  then  said  his  wife  unto  him,  How 
long  wilt  thou  persist,  saying,  Yet  a  little  while 
I  bitle  in  expectation  ?  Speak  some  word  against 
the  Lord,  and  die."1  (Job  ii.  9,  LXX.) 
Bot  your  child  is  dead?  What  then  if  thou 
hadst  lost  all  thy  children,  and  that  by  an  evil 
fete,  as  he  did  ?  For  ye  know,  ye  know  well, 
that  it  is  no  slight  alleviation  to  take  our  place 
heade  the  sick  man,  to  close  the  mouth,  to  shut 
the  eyes,  to  stroke  the  beard,  to  hear  the  last 
accents ;  but  that  just  man  was  vouchsafed  none 
of  these  consolations,  they  all  being  overwhelmed 


'  [Jhe  Sept.  uses  this  vague  euphemism  in  place  of  "  curse 
loe Oxford  tr.  omits  the  clause.  —J.  A.  B.] 


God." 


at  once.  And  what  do  I  say?  Hadst  thou, 
thine  own  self,  been  bidden  to  slay  and  offer 
up  thine  own  son,  and  to  see  the  body  con- 
sumed, like  that  blessed  Patriarch,  what  then 
wouldst  thou  have  felt  whilst  erecting  the  altar, 
laying  on  the  wood,  binding  the  child?  But 
there  are  some  who  revile  thee?  What  then 
would  be  thy  feelings  did  thy  friends,  come  to 
administer  consolation  to  thee,  speak  like  Job's  ? 
For,  as  it  is,  innumerable  are  our  sins,  and  we 
deserve  to  be  reproached ;  but  in  that  case  he 
who  was  true,  just,  godly,  who  kept  himself 
from  every  evil  deed,  heard  the  contrary  of 
those  laid  to  his  charge  by  his  friends.  What 
then,  tell  me,  if  thou  hadst  heard  thy  wife  ex- 
claiming in  accents  of  reproach ;  "  I  am  a  vaga- 
bond and  a  servant,  wandering  from  place  to 
place,  and  from  house  to  house,  waiting  until 
the  sun  goes  down,  that  I  may  rest  from  the 
woes  that  encompass  me."  (Job  ii.  9,  LXX.) 
Why  dost  thou  speak  so,  O  foolish  woman  ?  for 
is  thine  husband  to  blame  for  these  things? 
Nay,  but  the  devil.  "Speak  a  word  against 
God,"  she  says,  "  and  die  "  ;  —  and  if  thereupon 
the  stricken  man  had  cursed  and  died,  how 
wouldest  thou  be  the  better? — No  disease  you 
can  name  is  worse  than  that  of  his,  though  you 
name  ten  thousand.  It  was  so  grievous,  that 
he  could  no  longer  be  in  the  house  and  under 
cover;  such,  that  all  men  gave  him  up.  For 
if  he  had  not  been  irrecoverably  gone,  he  would 
never  have  taken  his  seat  without  the  city,  a 
more  pitiable  object  than  those  afflicted  with 
leprosy ;  for  these  are  both  admitted  into  houses, 
and  they  do  herd  together ;  but  he  passing  the 
night  in  the  open  air,  was  naked  upon  a  dung- 
hill, and  could  not  even  bear  a  garment  upon 
his  body.  How  so  ?  Perhaps  there  would  only 
have  been  an  addition  to  his  pangs.  For  "  I 
melt  the  clods  of  the  earth,"  he  says,  "  while 
I  scrape  off  my  sore."*  (Job  vii.  5,  LXX.) 
His  flesh  bred  sores  and  worms  in  him,  and 
that  continually.  Seest  thou  how  each  one  of 
us  sickens  at  the  hearing  of  these  things?  but 
if  they  are  intolerable  to  hear,  is  the  sight  of 
them  more  tolerable?  and  if  the  sight  of  them 
is  intolerable,  how  much  more  intolerable  to 
undergo  them?  And  yet  that  righteous  man 
did  undergo  them,  not  for  two  or  three  days, 
but  for  a  long  while,  and  he  did  not  sin,  not 
even  with  his  lips.  What  disease  can  you  de- 
scribe to  me  like  this,  so  exquisitely  painful? 
for  was  not  this  worse  than  blindness  ?  "I  look 
on  my  food,"  he  says,  "as  a  fetid  mass."  (Job 
vi.  7.)  And  not  only  this,  but  that  which  af- 
fords cessation  to  others,  night  and  sleep,  brought 
no  alleviation  to  him,  nay,  were  worse  than  any 
torture.  Hear  his  words :  "  Why  dost  thou 
scare  me  with  dreams,  and  terrify  me  through 

1  Eng.  Vers.  "  My  flesh  is  clothed  with  worms  and  clods  of  dust." 


222 


WORKS   OF   ST.    CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  VIII. 


visions  ?  If  it  be  morning,  I  say,  When  will  it 
be  evening?  "  (Job  vii.  14,  4),  and  he  murmured 
not.  And  there  was  not  only  this ;  but  reputa- 
tion in  the  eyes  of  the  world  was  added ;  for 
they  forthwith  concluded  him  to  be  guilty  of 
endless  crimes,  judging  from  all  that  he  suffered. 
And  accordingly  this  is  the  consideration,  which 
his  friends  urged  upon  him ;  "  Know  therefore 
that  God  exacteth  less  of  thee  than  thine  iniqui- 
ties deserve."  (Job  xi.  6.)  Wherefore  he  him- 
self said,  "  But  now  they  that  are  younger  than 
I  have  me  in  derision,  whose  fathers  I  disdained 
to  set  with  the  dogs  of  my  flock."  (Job  xxx.  1.) 
And  was  not  this  worse  than  many  deaths  ?  Yet 
though  assaulted  on  all  sides  by  a  flood  like  this, 
when  there  raged  around  him  a  fearful  storm, 
clouds,  rain,  lightnings,  whirling  winds,  and 
waterspouts,  he  remained  himself  unmoved, 
seated  as  it  were  in  the*  midst  of  this  surge,  thus 
awful  and  overwhelming,  as  in  a  perfect  calm, 
and  no  murmur  escaped  him ;  and  this  before 
the  gift  of  grace,  before  that  aught  was  declared 
concerning  a  resurrection,  before  aught  concern- 
ing hell  and  punishment  and  vengeance.  Yet 
we,  who  hear  both  Prophets  and  Apostles  and 
Evangelists  speaking  to  us,  and  have  innumera- 
ble examples  set  before  us,  and  have  been  taught 
the  tidings  of  a  Resurrection,  yet  harbor  dis- 
content, though  no  man  can  say  that  such  a 
fate  as  this  has  been  his  own.  For  if  one  has 
lost  money,  yet  not  all  that  great  number  of  sons 
and  daughters,  or  if  he  has,  perchance  it  was 
that  he  had  sinned ;  but  for  him,  he  lost  them 
suddenly,  in  the  midst  of  his  sacrifices,  in  the 
midst  of  the  service  which  he  was  rendering  to 
God.  And  if  any  man  has  at  one  blow  lost 
property  to  the  same  amount,  which  can  never 
be,  yet  he  has  not  had  the  further  affliction  of  a 
sore  all  over  his  body,  he  has  not  scraped  the 
humors  that  covered  him ;  or  if  this  likewise 
has  been  his  fate,  yet  he  has  not  had  men  to 
upbraid  and  reproach  him,  which  is  above  all 
things  calculated  to  wound  the  feelings,  more 
than  the  calamities  we  suffer.  For  if  when  we 
have  persons  to  cheer  and  console  us  in  our 
misfortunes,  and  to  hold  out  to  us  fair  prospects, 
we  yet  despond,  consider  what  it  was  to  have 
men  upbraiding  him.  If  the  words,  "  I  looked 
for  some  to  have  pity,  but  there  was  no  man, 
and  for  comforters,  but  I  found  none"  (Ps. 
lxix.  20),  describe  intolerable  misery,  how  great 
an  aggravation  to  find  revilers  instead  of  com- 
forters !  "  Miserable  comforters  are  ye  all " 
(Job  xvi.  2),  he  says.  If  we  did  but  revolve 
these  subjects  continually  in  our  minds,  if  we 
well  weighed  them,  no  ills  of  this  present  time 
could  ever  have  force  to  disturb  our  peace, 
when  we  turned  our  eyes  to  that  athlete,  that 
soul  of  adamant,  that  spirit  impenetrable  as 
brass.     For  as  though  he  had  borne  about  him 


a  body  of  brass  or  stone,  he  met  all  events  with 
a  noble  and  constant  spirit. 

Taking  these  things  to  heart,  let  us  do  every- 
thing "  without  murmuring  and  disputing."  Is 
it  some  good  work  that  thou  hast  before  thee, 
and  dost  thou  murmur?  wherefore?  art  thou 
then  forced  ?  for  that  there  are  many  about  you 
who  force  you  to  murmur,  I  know  well,  says  he. 
This  he  intimated  by  saying,  "  in  the  midst  of  a 
crooked  and  perverse  generation";  but  it  is 
this  that  deserves  admiration,  that  we  admit  no 
such  feeling  when  under  galling  provocation. 
For  the  stars  too  give  light  in  the  night,  they 
shine  in  the  dark,  and  receive  no  blemish  to 
their  own  beauty,  yea  they  even  shine  the 
brighter ;  but  when  light  returns,  they  no  longer 
shine  so.  Thus  thou  too  dost  appear  with  the 
greater  lustre,  whilst  thou  holdest  straight  in  the 
midst  of  the  crooked.  This  it  is  which  deserves 
our  admiration,  the  being  "  blameless  " ;  for 
that  they  might  not  urge  this  plea,1  he  himself 
set  it  down  by  anticipation.  What  means  "  hold- 
ing fast  the  word  of  life  "?  i.e.  "  being  destined 
to  live,  being  of  those  that  are  gaining  salva- 
tion."8 Observe  how  immediately  he  subjoins 
the  rewards,  which  are  in  reserve.  Lights  [i.e. 
luminaries],  he  says,  retain  the  principle  of 
light;  so  do  ye  the  principle3  of  life.  What 
means  "  the  word  of  life  "  ?  Having  the  seed 
of  life,  i.e.  having  pledges  of  life,  holding  life 
itself,  i.e.  "  having  in  yourselves  the  seed  of  life," 
this  is  what  he  calk  "  the  word  of  life."  Con- 
sequently the  rest  are  all  dead,  for  by  these 
words  he  signified  as  much ;  for  otherwise  those 
others  likewise  would  have  held  "  the  word  of 
life."  "That  I  may  have  whereof  to  glory," 
he  says ;  what  is  this  ?  I  too  participate  in  your 
good  deeds,  he  says.  So  great  is  your  virtue,  as 
not  only  to  save  yourselves,  but  to  render  me 
illustrious.  Strange  kind  of  "  boasting,"  thou 
blessed  Paul !  Thou  art  scourged,  driven  about, 
reviled  for  our  sakes  :  therefore  he  adds, "  in  the 
day  of  Christ,  that  I  did  not  run,"  he  says,  "  in 
vain,  nor  labored  in  vain,"  but  I  always  have  a 
right  to  glory,  he  means,  that  I  did  not  run  in 
vain. 

"Yea,  and  if  I  am  offered."  He  said  not, 
"  and  if  I  die  even,"  nor  did  he  when  writing  to 
Timothy,  for  there,  too,  he  has  made  use  of  the 
same  expression,  "  For  I  am  already  being  of- 
fered." (2  Tim.  iv.  6.)  He  is  both  consoling 
them  about  his  own  death,  and  instructing  them 
to  bear  gladly  the  death  that  is  for  Christ's  sake. 
I  am  become,  he  says,  as  it  were  a  libation  and 
a  sacrifice.  O  blessed  soul !  His  bringing  them 
to  God  he  calls  a  sacrifice.  It  is  much  better  ta 
present  a  soul  than  to  present  oxen.     "  If,  thenr 

1  Viz.  that  they  were  forced.  *  trm^oit-trmr. 

3  [The  term  Aoyov ,  "  word,"  Chrys.  here  fancifully  takes  in  the 
sense  of  ground,  reason,  principle,  and  so  quite  misinterprets  the 
clause.    See  Meyer.  —  J.  A.  B.J 


Homily  IX.] 


HOMILIES   ON   PHILIPPIANS. 


223 


over  and  above  this  offering,"  he  says,  "  I  add 
myself,  my  death  as  a  libation,  I  rejoice."     For 
this  he  implies,  when  he  says,  "  Yea,  and  if  I  am 
offered  upon  the  sacrifice  and  service,  I  joy  and 
rejoice  with  you  all ;  and  in  the  same  manner 
do  ye  also  joy  and  rejoice  with  me."     Why  dost 
thou  rejoice  with  them?     Seest  thou  that  he 
shows  that  it  is  their  duty  to  rejoice  ?     On  the 
one  hand  then,  I  rejoice  in  being  made  a  liba- 
tion ;  on  the  other,  I  rejoice  with  you,  in  having 
presented  a  sacrifice  ;  "  and  in  the  same  manner 
do  ye  also  joy  and  rejoice  with  me,"  that  I  am 
offered  up ;   "  rejoice  with  me,"  "  who  rejoice 
in  myself."     So  that  the  death  of  the  just  is  no 
subject  for  tears,  but  for  joy.     If  they  rejoice, 
we  should  rejoice  with  them.      For  it  is  mis- 
placed for  us  to  weep,  while  they  rejoice.    "  But," 
it  is  urged,  "  we  long  for  our  wonted  intercourse." 
This  is  a  mere  pretext  and  excuse ;  and  that  it 
is  so,  mark  what  he  enjoins  :  "  Rejoice  with  me, 
and  joy."     Dost  thou  miss  thy  wonted  inter- 
course?   If  thou  wert  thyself  destined  to  remain 
here,  there  would  be  reason  in  what  thou  sayest ; 
but  if  after  a  brief  space  thou  wilt  overtake  him 
who  has  departed,  what  is  that  intercourse  which 
thou  dost  seek  ?  for  it  is  only  when  he  is  forever 
severed  from  him  that  a  man  misses  the  society 
of  another,  but  if  he  will  go  the  same  way  that 
thou  wilt  go,  what  is  the  intercourse  which  thou 


longest  for  ?  Why  do  we  not  bewail  all  that  are 
upon  foreign  travel?  Do  we  not  just  a  little, 
and  cease  after  the  first  or  the  second  day  ?  If 
thou  longest  for  thy  wonted  intercourse  with  him, 
weep  so  far  only.  "  It  is  no  evil  that  I  suffer," 
says  he,  "  but  I  even  rejoice  in  going  to  Christ, 
and  do  ye  not  rejoice."  "  Rejoice  with  me." 
Let  us  too  rejoice  when  we  see  a  righteous  man 
dying,  and  yet  more  even  when  any  of  the  des- 
perately wicked  ;  for  the  first  is  going  to  receive 
the  reward  of  his  labors,  but  the  other  has  abated 
somewhat  from  the  score  of  his  sins.1  But  it  is 
said,  perhaps  he  might  have  altered,  had  he 
lived.  Yet  God  would  never  have  taken  him 
away,  if  there  had  been  really  a  prospect  of  an 
alteration.  For  why  should  not  He  who  orders 
all  events  for  our  salvation,  allow  him  the  oppor- 
tunity, who  gave  promise  of  pleasing  Him  ?  If 
He  leaves  those,  who  never  alter,  much  more 
those  that  do.  Let  then  the  sharpness  of  our 
sorrow  be  everywhere  cut  away,  let  the  voice  of 
lamentation  cease.  Let  us  thank  God  under  all 
events  :  let  us  do  all  things  without  murmuring ; 
let  us  be  cheerful,  and  let  us  become  pleasing  to 
Him  in  all  things,  that  we  may  also  attain  the 
good  things  to  come,  by  the  grace  and  loving- 
kindness  of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  with  whom, 
&c. 


HOMILY    IX. 

Philippians  ii.  19-21. 


"Bat  I  hope  in  the  Lord  Jesus  to  send  Timothy  shortly 
unto  you,  that  I  also  may  be  of  good  comfort,  when 
I  know  your  state.  For  I  have  no  man  likeminded, 
who  will  care  truly  for  your  state.  For  they  all  seek 
their  own,  not  the  things  of  Jesus  Christ." 

He  had  said,  "  have  fallen  out  unto  the  prog- 
ress of  the  Gospel ;  so  that  my  bonds  became 
manifest  in  Christ  throughout  the  whole  praeto- 
rian guard."  (Phil.  i.  12,  13.)  Again,  "Yea, 
and  if  I  am  offered  upon  the  sacrifice  and  service 
of  your  faith."  (Phil.  ii.  17.)  By  these  words 
be  strengthened  them.  Perchance  they  might 
suspect  that  his  former  words  were  spoken  just 
to  comfort  them.  What  then  ?  "I  send  Timo- 
thy unto  you,"  says  he ;  for  they  desired  to  hear 
all  things  that  concerned  him.  And  wherefore 
said  he  not,  "  that  ye  may  know  my  state,"  but, 
"that  I  may  know  yours  "  ?  Because  Epaphro- 
ditus  would  have  reported  his  state  before  the 
arrival  of  Timothy.  Wherefore  further  on  he 
says,  "But  I  counted  it  necessary  to  send  to 


you  Epaphroditus,  my  brother  (Phil.  ii.  25); 
but  I  wish  to  learn  of  your  affairs.  For  it  is 
likely  that  he  had  remained  long  time  with  Paul 
through  his  bodily  weakness.  So  that  he  says, 
I  wish  to  "  know  your  state."  See  then  how  he 
refers  everything  to  Christ,  even  the  mission  of 
Timothy,  saying,  "  I  hope  in  the  Lord  Jesus," 
that  is,  I  am  confident  that  God  will  facilitate 
this  for  me,  that  I  too  may  be  of  good  courage, 
when  I  know  your  state.  As  I  refreshed  you 
when  ye  heard  the  very  things  of  me  which  ye 
had  prayed  for,  that  the  Gospel  had  advanced, 
that  its  enemies  were  put  to  shame,  that  the 
means  by  which  they  thought  to  injure,  rather 
made  me  rejoice ;  thus  too  do  I  wish  to  learn  of 
your  affairs,  that  I  too  may  be  of  good  courage 

1  iviKOif/t.    See  on  Stat.  Horn.  v.  (a),  Tr.  p.  37a.     Here,  hovjr- 
ever,  he  rather  means  sins  that  might  have  been  committed.      H« 
certainly  rather  strains  the  principle  of  trying  to  view  things  as  l***X 
arc,  seeing  that,  to  us  at  least,  while  there  is  life  there  is  hope.     Still 
a  more  thorough  feeling  of  God's  mercy,  and  of  our  own  ignoranc«» 
would  make  us  better  understand  the  general  use  of  thanksgiving  xrk 
our  funeral  service. 


224 


WORKS   OF   ST.   CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  IX. 


when  I  know  your  state.  Here  he  shows  that 
they  ought  to  rejoice  for  his  bonds,  and  to  be 
conformed  to  them,  for  they  begat  in  him  great 
pleasure ;  for  the  words,  "  that  I  too  may  be  of 
good  comfort,"  imply,  just  as  you  are. 

Oh,  what  longing  had  he  toward  Macedonia  ! 
He  testifies  the  same  to  the  Thessalonians,  as 
when  he  says, "  But  we,  brethren,  being  bereaved 
of1  you  for  a  short  season,"  &c.  (i  Thess.  ii. 
17.)  And  here  he  says,  "  I  hope  to  send  Timo- 
thy "  that  I  may  "  know  your  state,"  which  is  a 
proof  of  excessive  care  :  for  when  he  could  not 
himself  be  with  them,  he  sent  his  disciples,  as 
he  could  not  endure  to  remain,  even  for  a  little 
time,  in  ignorance  of  their  state.  For  he  did 
not  learn  all  things  by  revelation  of  the  Spirit, 
and  for  this  we  can  see  some  reason ;  for  if  the 
disciples  had  believed  that  it  were  so,  they  would 
have  lost  all  sense  of  shame, s  but  now  from  ex- 
pectation of  concealment,  they  were  more  easily 
corrected.  In  a  high  degree  did  he  call  their 
attention  by  saying,  "  that  I  too  may  be  of  good 
comfort,"  and  rendered  them  more  zealous,  so 
that,  when  Timothy  came  he  might  not  find  any 
other  state  of  things,  and  report  it  to  him.  He 
seems  to  have  acted  in  like  sort  in  his  own  per- 
son, when  he  delayed  his  coming  to  the  Cor- 
inthians, that  they  might  repent ;  wherefore  he 
wrote,  "to  spare  you  I  forbare  to  come  to 
Corinth."  (2  Cor.  i.  23.)  For  his  love  was 
manifested  not  simply  in  reporting  his  own  state, 
but  in  his  desire  to  learn  of  theirs ;  for  this  is 
the  part  of  a  soul  which  has  a  care  of  others, 
which  takes  thought  for  them,  which  is  always 
wrestling  for  them. 

At  the  same  time  too,  he  honors  them  by 
sending  Timothy.  "What  sayest  thou?  dost 
thou  send  Timothy?  and  wherefore?  "  Because 
"  I  have  no  one  likeminded  " ;  that  is,  none  of 
those  whose  care  is  like  mine,  none  who  "  will 
care  truly  for  you."  (Phil.  ii.  20.)  Had  he 
then  no  one  of  those  who  were  with  him?  No 
one  likeminded,  that  is,  who  has  yearnings  and 
takes  thought  for  you  as  I  do.  No  one  would 
lightly  choose,  he  means,  to  make  so  long  a 
journey  for  this  purpose.  Timothy  is  the  one 
with  me  who  loves  you.8  For  I  might  have 
sent  others,  but  there  was  none  like  him.  This 
then  is  that  likemindedness,  to  love  the  disciples 
as  the  master  loves  them.  "Who,"  says  he, 
"will  truly  care  for  you,"  that  is,  as  a  father. 
"  For  they  all  seek  their  own,  not  the  things  of 
Jesus  Christ"  (Phil.  ii.  21),  their  own  comfort, 
their  own  safety.  This  too  he  writes  to  Timo- 
thy.    But  why  doth  he  lament  such  things  as 


1  a.irop4>a.vt<T0<vTes. 

3  He  means  that  if  they  thought  he  knew  their  exact  condition  by 
revelation,  they  would  lose  a  motive  for  improvement,  in  the  hope  of 
standing  well  in  his  eyes.  Such  motives  are  of  course  still  a  part  of 
our  moral  education. 

8  Or,  «*  the  one  who  loves  you  with  me,"  i.e.  "  as  I." 


these?  To  teach  us  his  hearers  not  to  fall  in 
like  sort,  to  teach  his  hearers  not  to  seek  for 
remission  from  toil ;  for  he  who  seeks  remission 
from  toil,  seeks  not  the  things  that  are  Christ's, 
but  his  own.  We  ought  to  be  prepared  against 
every  toil,  against  every  distress. 

Ver.  22.  "Ye  know  trie  proof  of  him,  that  as 
a  child  serveth  a  father,  so  he  served  with  me 
in  furtherance  of  the  Gospel." 

And  that  I  speak  not  at  random,  "  ye  your- 
selves," he  says,  "  know,  that  as  a  child  serveth 
a  father,  so  he  served  with  me  in  furtherance  of 
the  Gospel."  He  presents  then  Timothy  to 
them,  and  with  reason,  that  he  'might  enjoy 
much  honor  from  them.  This  too  he  does  when 
he  writes  to  the  Corinthians,  and  he  says,  "  Let 
no  man  therefore  despise  him,  for  he  worketh 
the  work  of  the  Lord  as  I  also  do."  (1  Cor. 
xvi.  10.)  This  he  said  not  as  caring  for  him, 
but  for  those  who  receive  him,  that  they  might 
receive  a  great  reward. 

Ver.  23.  "  Him  therefore,"  he  says,  "  I  hope 
to  send  forthwith,  so  soon  as  I  shall  see  how  it 
will  go  with  me,"  that  is,  when  I  see  where  1 
stand,  and  what  end  my  affairs  will  have. 

Ver.  24.  "  But  I  trust  in  the  Lord  that  I  also 
myself  shall  come  to  you  shortly." 

I  am  not  therefore  sending  him,  as  though  I 
myself  would  not  come,  but  that  I  may  be  of 
good  courage  when  "I  know  your  state,  that  even 
in  the  mean  time  I  may  not  be  ignorant  of  it. 
"  But  I  trust  in  the  Lord,"  says  he.  See  how  he 
makes  all  things  depend  on  God,  and  speaks 
nothing  of  his  own  mind.    That  is,  God  willing.4 

Ver.  25.  "  But  I  counted  it  necessary  to  send 
to  you  Epaphroditus,  my  brother,  and  fellow- 
worker,  and  fellow-soldier." 

And  him  too  he  sends  with  the  same  praises 
as  Timothy,  for  he  commended  him  on  these 
two  points ;  first,  in  that  he  loved  them,  when 
he  says,  "  who  will  care  truly  for  you " ;  and 
secondly,  in  that  he  had  approved  himself  in  the 
Gospel.  And  for  the  same  reason,  and  in  the 
same  terms,  he  praises  this  man  also  :  and  how? 
By  calling  him  a  brother,  and  a  fellow-worker, 
and  not  stopping  at  this  point,  but  also  "  fellow- 
soldier,"  he  showed  how  he  shared  in  his  dangers, 
and  testifies  of  him  the  same  things  which  he 
testifies  of  himself.  For  "  fellow-soldier "  is 
more  than  "  fellow-worker  "  ;  for  perchance  he 
gave  aid  in  quiet  matters,  yet  not  so  in  wars  and 
dangers;  but  in  saying  "fellow-soldier,"  he 
showed  this  too. 

Ver.  25.  "To  send  to  you  your  messenger, 
and  minister  to  my  needs  "  ;  that  is,  I  give  you 
your  own,  since  I  send  to  you  him  that  is  your 


4  [This  has  the  appearance  of  rough  notes  taken  in  shorthand. 
The  usual  editions  place  this  brief  sentence  before  "  see,*'  and  thus 
make  a  somewhat  better  connection,  but  without  known  MS.  au- 
thority.— J.  A.  B.j 


Homily  IX.] 


HOMILIES   ON    PHILIPPIANS. 


225 


own,  or,  perhaps,  that  is  your  Teacher.1  Again 
he  adds  many  things  concerning  his  love,  in 
saying, 

Ver.  26,  27.  "Since  he  longed  after  you  all, 
and  was  sore  troubled,  because  ye  had  heard 
that  he  was  sick.  For  indeed  he  was  sick  nigh 
unto  death  :  but  God  had  mercy  on  him ;  and 
not  on  him  only,  but  on  me  also,  that  I  might 
not  have  sorrow  upon  sorrow." 

Here  he  aims  at  a  farther  point,  making  it 
manifest,  that  Epaphroditus  too  was  well  aware, 
how  he  was  beloved  of  them.     And  this  is  no 
light  thing  toward  loving.     You  know  how  he 
was  sick,  he  says ;  and  he  grieved  that  on  his 
recovery  he  did  not  see  you,  and  free  you  from 
the  grief  ye  had  by  reason  of  his  sickness.    Here 
too  he  gives  another  reason  for  sending  so  late 
to  them,  not  from  any  remissness,  but  he  kept 
Timothy  because  he  had  no  one  else,  (for,  as 
he  had  written,  he  had  "no  one  likeminded,") 
and  Epaphroditus  because  of  his  sickness.     He 
then  shows  that  this  was  a  long  sickness,  and 
had  consumed  much  time,  by  adding,  "  for  he 
was  sick  nigh  unto  death."     You  see  how  anx- 
ious Paul  is  to  cut  off  from  his   disciples   all 
occasion  of  slighting  or  contempt,  and  every 
suspicion  that  his  not  coming  was  because  he 
despised  them.     For  nothing  will  have   such 
power  to  draw  a  disciple  toward  one,  as  the  per- 
suasion that  his  superior  cares  for  him,  and  that 
he  is  full  of  heaviness  on  his  account,  for  this 
is  the  part  of  exceeding  love.     Because    "  ye 
have  heard,"  he  says,  "  that  he  was  sick ;  for  he 
was  sick  nigh  unto  death."     And  that  I  am  not 
making  an  excuse,  hear  what  follows.      "  But 
God  had  mercy  on  him."     What  sayest  thou, 
0  heretic  ?     Here  it  is  written,  that  God's  mercy 
retained  and  brought  back  again  him  who  was 
on  the  point  of  departure.     And  yet  if  the  world 
is  evil,  it  is  no  mercy  to  leave  a  man  in  the  evil. 
Our  answer  to  the  heretic  is  easy,  but  what  shall 
we  say  to  the  Christian?  for  he  perchance  will 
question,  and  say,  "  if  to  depart  and  to  be  with 
Christ  is  far  better,"  how  saith  he  that  he  hath 
obtained  mercy?    I  would  ask  why  the  same 
Apostle  says,  that  "  it  is  more  needful  to  abide 
with  you"?*    For  as  it  was  needful  for  him,  so 
too  for  this  man,  who  would  hereafter  depart  to 
God  with  more  exceeding  riches,  and  greater 
boldness.     Hereafter  that  would  take  place,  even 
if  it  did  not  now,  but  the  winning  souls  is  at  an 
cod  for  those  who  have  once  departed  thither. 
In  many  places  too,  Paul  speaks  according  to 
the  common  habits  of  his  hearers,  and  not  every 
^beie  in  accordance  with  his  own  heavenly  wis- 

*  Referring  to  the  word  translated  "  Messenger,"  which  is  "Apos- 
p  ad  may  mean  "  Bishop,"  as  Theodoret  clearly  takes  it  here. 
J** Cor.  Tiii.  23,  St.  Chrys.  understands  it  "  messengers  "  or  "  dep- 


ttm. 


dom  :  for  he  had  to  speak  to  men  of  the  world 
1  who  still  feared  death.  Then  he  shows  how  he 
esteemed  Epaphroditus,  and  thence  he  gets  for 
him  respect,  by  saying,  that  his  preservation  was 
so  useful  to  himself,  that  the  mercy  which  had 
been  shown  to  Epaphroditus  reached  him  also. 
Moreover,  without  this  the  present  life  is  a 
good  ;  were  it  not  so,  why  does  Paul  rank  with 
punishment  untimely  deaths?  as  when  he  says, 
"  For  this  cause  many  are  weak  and  sickly 
among  you,  and  not  a  few  sleep"  (1  Cor.  xi. 
30)  ;  for  the  future  life  is  not  (merely)  better 
than  an  evil  state,  since  (then)  it  were  not 
good,  but  better  than  a  good  state. 

"  Lest  I  should  have,"  he  says,  "  sorrow  upon 
sorrow  " ;  sorrow  from  his  death  in  addition  to 
that  which  sprung  from  his  sickness.  By  this 
he  shows  how  much  he  prized  Epaphroditus. 

Ver.  28.  "  I  have  sent  him  therefore  the  more 
diligently."  What  means  "more  diligently"? 
It  is,  without  procrastination,  without  delay,  with 
much  speed,  having  bidden  him  lay  all  aside, 
and  to  go  to  you,  that  he  might  be  freed  from 
heaviness ;  for  we  rejoice  not  on  hearing  of 
the  health  of  those  we  love,  so  much  as  when 
we  see  them,  and  chiefly  so  when  this  hap- 
pens contrary  to  hope,  as  it  was  in  the  case  of 
Epaphroditus. 

"  I  have  sent  him  therefore  the  more  dili- 
gently, that  when  ye  see  him  again,  ye  may 
rejoice,  and  that  I  may  be  the  less  sorrowful." 
How  "  less  sorrowful "  ?  Because  if  ye  rejoice, 
I  too  rejoice,  and  he  too  joys  at  a  pleasure  of 
such  sort,  and  I  shall  be  "  less  sorrowful."  He 
said  not  sorrowless,  but  "less  sorrowful,"  to 
show  that  his  soul  never  was  free  from  sorrow : 
for  he  who  said,  "  Who  is  weak,  and  I  am  not 
weak?  who  is  made  to  stumble,  and  I  burn  not?  " 
(2  Cor.  xi.  29),  when  could  such  an  one  be 
free  from  sorrow?  That  is,  this  despondency  I 
now  cast  off. 

Ver.  29.  "  Receive  him  therefore  in  the  Lord 
with  all  joy." 

"  In  the  Lord  "  either  means  spiritually  and 
with  much  zeal,  or  rather  "  in  the  lx>rd  "  means 
God  willing.  Receive  him  in  a  manner  worthy 
of  saints,  as  saints  should  be  received  with  all 
joy. 

All  this  he  does  for  their  sakes,  not  for  that 
of  his  messengers,  for  greater  gain  has  the  doer 
than  the  receiver  of  a  good  deed.  "And  such 
hold  in  honor,"  that  is,  receive  him  in  a  manner 
worthy  of  saints. 

Ver.  30.  "  Because  for  the  work  of  Christ  he 
came  nigh  unto  death,  hazarding  his  life,  to 
supply  that  which  was  lacking  in  your  service 
towards  me." 

This  man  had  been  publicly  sent  by  the  city 
of  the  Philippians,  who  had  come  as  minister  to 


*JSo  Field,  with  moat  documents.    The  altered  text  has  "for    r>„»    „     1  ,A*    u«J«-»  U-;«~;«~   u:^    c««,^    ^«*~ 

J*.  M<*  you*  account,"  as  in  Phil,  u  24.— j.  a.  b.i  I  Paul,  and  perchance  bringing  him  some  contn- 


226 


WORKS   OF   ST.   CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  IX. 


bution,  for  toward  the  end  of  the  Epistle  he 
shows  that  he  also  brought  him  money,  when  he 
says,  "  Having  received  of  Epaphroditus  the 
things  that  came  from  you."     (Phil.  iv.  18.) 

It  is  probable  then,  that  on  his  arrival  at  the 
city  of  Rome,  he  found  Paul  in  great  and  urgent 
peril,  so  that  those  who  were  accustomed  to 
resort  to  him  were  vnable  safely  to  do  so,  but 
were  themselves  in  peril  by  their  very  attend- 
ance ;  which  is  wont  to  happen  chiefly  in  very 
great  dangers,  and  the  exceeding  wrath  of  kings, 
(for  when  any  one  has  offended  the  king,  and 
is  cast  into  prison,  and  is  strictly  guarded,  then 
even  his  servants  are  debarred  from  access, 
which  probably  then  befell  Paul,)  and  that 
Epaphroditus,  being  of  a  noble  nature,  despised 
all  danger,  that  he  might  go  in  unto  him,  and 
minister  unto  him,  and  do  everything  which 
need  required.  He  therefore  sets  forth  two 
facts,  by  which  he  gains  for  him  their  respect ; 
the  one,  that  he  was  in  jeopardy  well  nigh  unto 
death,  he  says,  for  my  sake ;  the  other,  that  in 
so  suffering  he  was  representing  their  city,  so 
that  the  recompense  for  that  his  peril  would  be 
accounted  to  those  who  sent  him,  as  if  the  city 
had  sent  him  as  their  ambassador,  so  that  a  kind 
reception  of  him  and  approval  of  what  he  had 
done  may  rather  be  called  a  participation  in  the 
things  that  he  had  dared.  And  he  said  not, 
"  for  my  sake,"  but  obtains  the  more  credit  for 
his  words,  by  saying,  "  because  for  the  work  of 
God,"  since  he  acted  not  for  my  sake,  but  for 
God's  sake  "  he  was  nigh  unto  death."  What 
then  ?  though  by  the  providence  of  God  he  died 
not,  yet  he  himself  regarded  not  his  life,  and 
gave  himself  up  to  any  suffering  that  might  befall 
him,  so  as  not  to  remit  his  attendance  on  me. 
And  if  he  gave  himself  up  to  death  to  attend  on 
Paul,  much  more  would  he  have  endured  this 
for  the  GospePs  sake.  Or  rather,  this  also  had 
been  for  the  Gospel's  sake,  even  to  have  died 
for  Paul.  For  we  may  bind  about  our  brows 
the  crown  of  martyrdom,  not  only  by  refusing  to 
sacrifice,  but  such  causes  as  these  also  make 
death  martyrdom,  and  if  I  may  say  something 
startling,  these  latter  do  so  far  more  than  the 
former.  For  he  who  dares  to  face  death  for  the 
lesser  cause,  will  much  rather  for  the  greater. 
Let  us  therefore,  when  we  see  the  Saints  in 
danger,  regard  not  our  life,  for  it  is  impossible 
without  daring  ever  to  perform  any  noble  act, 
but  need  is  that  he  who  takes  thought  before- 
hand for  his  safety  here,  should  fall  from  that 
which  is  to  come. 

"  To  supply,"  he  says,  "  your  lack  of  service 
toward  me."  What  is  this?  the  city  was  not 
present,  but  by  sending  him,  it  fulfilled  through 
him  all  service  toward  me.  He  therefore  sup- 
plied your  lack  of  service,  so  that  for  this  reason 
too  he  deserves  to  enjoy  much  honor,  since, 


what  ye  all  should  have  done,  this  hath  he  per- 
formed on  your  behalf.  Here  he  shows  that 
there  is  also  a  foregoing  service  rendered  by 
those  in  safety  to  those  in  danger,  for  so  he 
speaks  of  the  lack,1  and  the  lack  of  service. 
Seest  thou  the  spirit  of  the  Apostle?  These 
words  spring  not  from  arrogance,  but  from  his 
great  care  towards  them  ;  for  he  calls  the  matter 
a  "  service  "  and  a  "lack,"  that  they  may  not  be 
puffed  up,  but  be  moderate,  nor  think  that  they 
have  rendered  some  great  thing,  but  rather  be 
humble-minded. 

For  we  owe  the  saints  a  debt,  and  are  not 
doing  them  a  favor.  For  as  supplies  are  due 
by  those  who  are  in  peace  and  not  engaged  in 
war  to  such  as  stand  in  the  army  and  fight  (for 
these  stand  on  their  behoof),  thus  too  is  it  here. 
For  if  Paul  had  not  taught,  who  would  have  cast 
him  into  prison?  Wherefore  we  ought  to  min- 
ister to  the  Saints.  For  is  it  not  absurd  to  con- 
tribute to  an  earthly  king,  when  engaged  in  war, 
all  that  he  wants,  as  clothing  and  food,  not 
according  to  his  need  alone,  but  abundantly, 
whilst  to  the  King  of  Heaven,  when  engaged  in 
war,  and  contending  against  far  more  bitter  foes 
(for  it  is  written,  "our  wrestling  is  not  against 
flesh  and  blood")  (Eph.  vi.  12),  we  will. not 
supply  urgent  necessity?  What  folly  is  this  ! 
What  ingratitude  !  What  base  love  of  gain  ! 
But,  as  it  seems,  the  fear  of  man  has  greater 
force  with  us  than  hell,  and  the  future  torments. 
For  this  cause,  in  truth,  all  things  are  turned 
upside  down;  for  political  affairs  are  daily 
accomplished  with  much  earnestness,  and  one 
must  not  be  left  behind,  whilst  of  spiritual  things 
there  is  no  account  taken  at  all ;  but  the  things 
which  are  demanded  of  us  of  necessity,  and  with 
compulsion,  as  though  we  were  slaves,  and 
against  our  wills,  are  laid  down  by  us  with  much 
readiness,  while  such  as  are  asked  from  willing 
minds,  and  as  if  from  free  men,  are  again  de- 
ficient. I  speak  not  against  all,  but  against 
those  who  are  behindhand  with  these  supplies. 
For  might  not  God  have  made  these  contribu- 
tions compulsory?  Yet  He  would  not,  for  He 
has  more  care  of  you  than  of  those  whom  you 
support.  Wherefore  He  would  not  that  you_ 
should  contribute  of  necessity,  since  there  is  n< 
recompense.     And  yet  many  of  those  who  stam 

here  are  lower  minded2  than  the  Jews.     Con 

sider  how  great  things  the  Jews  gave,  tithes^= 
first-fruits,  tithes  again,  and  again  other  tithes 
and  besides  this  thirteenths,  and  the  shekel,  an^ 
no  one  said,  how  much  they  devour;  for  th^.  < 
more   they  receive,  the   greater  is  the  rewarcz_ri. 


he 


1  [The  word  means  "  a  falling  behind,"  in  contrast  with 
thing  foregoing.  —  J.  A.  B.] 

*  raa-cti'dTepot,  in  a  bad  sense. 

*  Lev.  xxvii.  30-32.     Deut.  xiv.  93,  a8;  xxvi.  :a.    Of  the  she 
see  on  St.  Matt.  Horn,  lviii.  init.,  where  he  says  it  was  paid  by  all 
first-born.    He  is  probably  mistaken,  as  St.  Peter  paid  it,  though-*     be 
was  a  younger  brother. 


Homily  IX.] 


HOMILIES   ON    PHILIPPIANS. 


227 


They  say  not,  They  receive  much,  they  are  glut- 
tons ;  which  words  I  hear  now  from  some.     They 
for  their  part,  while  they  are  building  houses,  and 
buying  estates,  still  think  they  have  nothing ;  but 
if  any  priest  is  clothed  in  dress  more  bright  than 
usual,  and  enjoys  more  than  what  is  necessary 
for  his  sustenance,  or  has  an  attendant,  that  he 
may  not  be  forced  himself  to  act  unbecomingly, 
they  set  the  matter  down  for  riches.     And  in 
truth  we  are  rich  even  at  this  rate,  and  they  ad- 
mit it  against  their  will ;  for  we,  though  we  have 
but  little,  are  rich,  whilst  they,  though  they  get 
everything  about  them,  are  poor. 

How  far  shall  our  folly  extend  ?  does  it  not 
suffice  to  our  punishment  that  we  do  no  good 
deed,  but  must  we  add  to  it  the  punishment  of 
evil  speaking?     For  if  what  he  has  were  your 
gifts,  you  lose  your  reward  by  upbraiding  him 
for  what  you  gave.     In  a  word,  if  thou  didst  give 
it,  why  dost  thou  upbraid  him?     You  have  al- 
ready borne  witness   to  his  poverty,  by  saying 
that  what  he  has  are  your  gifts.     Why  then  dost 
thou  upbraid  ?    Thou  shouldest  not  have  given, 
didst  thou  intend  so  to  do.     But  dost  thou  speak 
thus,  when   another   gives?     It    is   then   more 
grievous,  in   that  when   thou   thyself  hast  not 
given,  thou  upbraidest  for  another  man's  good 
deeds.    How  great  reward  thinkest  thou  those 
who  are  thus  spoken  of  will  receive  ?     It  is  for 
God's  sake  they  thus  suffer.    How  and  wherefore  ? 
Had  they  so  willed,  they  might  have  taken  up  a 
trader's  life,  even   though  they  received  it  not 
from  their  ancestors.     For  I  hear  many  speak- 
ing thus  at  random,  when  we  say  that  a  certain 
man  is  poor.     Had  he  willed,  they  say,  he  might 
have  been  rich,  and   then  tauntingly  add,  His 
father,  his  grandfather,  and  I  know  not  who  was 
so ;  but  now  see  what  a  robe  he  wears !     But 
what?  tell  me,  ought  he  to  go  about  naked? 
You  then  start  nice  questionings  on  these  points, 
but  see  lest  thou  thus  speakest  against  thyself. 
Listen  to  that  exhortation  of  Christ,  which  says, 
"Judge  not  that  ye  be  not  judged."     (Matt.  vii. 
'•)    He  might,  it  is  true,  if  he  had  willed,  have 
W  a  trader's  or  a  merchant's  life,  and  would 
^rely  not  have  lacked.      But  he  would  not. 
What  then,  says  one,  is  he  here  profited?    Tell 
Hfe,  what  is  he  profited  ?     Does  he  wear  silken 
robes?    Does  he  proudly  clear  his  way  through 
the  forum  with  a  troop  of  followers?      Is  he 
borne  along  on   horseback?     Does   he   build 
bouses,  having  where  to  dwell?     If  he  act  so, 
I  too  accuse  him,  and  spare  him  not,  but  de- 
clare that  he   is   unworthy  of  the  priesthood. 
For  how  can  he  exhort  others  not  to  spend  their 
tone  on  these  superfluities,  who  cannot  advise 
himself?    But  if  he  has  sufficient  for  support, 
*be  therefore  doing  wrong?    Would  you  have 
bimiead  a  vagabond  life,  and  beg?    Wouldest 
1      Bot  thou  too,  his  disciple,  be  put  to  shame  ?    But 


if  thy  father  in  the  flesh  did  this,  thou  wouldest 
think  shame  of  the  thing.  If  thy  spiritual  father 
be  compelled  so  to  do,  wilt  thou  not  veil  thy  head, 
and  even  think  thou  art  sinking  into  the  earth  ? 
It  is  written,  "  A  father's  dishonor  is  a  reproach 
to  the  children."  (Ecclus.  iii.  11.)  But  what? 
Should  he  perish  with  famine  ?  This  were  not 
like  a  pious  man  ;  for  God  willeth  it  not.  But 
what  do  they  straightway  philosophize?  It  is 
written,  say  they,  "Get  you  no  gold,  nor  silver, 
nor  brass  in  your  purses,  neither  two  coats,  nor 
yet  staves"  (Matt.  x.  9,  10),  whilst  these  men 
have  three  or  four  garments,  and  beds  well 
spread.  I  am  forced  now  to  heave  a  bitter  sigh, 
and,  but  that  it  had  been  indecorous,  I  had  wept 
too  !  How  so  ?  Because  we  are  such  curious 
searchers  into  the  motes  of  others,  while  we  feel 
not  the  beams  in  our  own  eyes.  Tell  me,  why 
sayest  thou  not  this  to  thyself?  The  answer 
is,  Because  the  command  is  laid  only  on  our 
Teachers.  When  then  Paul  says,  "having 
food  and  covering  we  shall  be  therewith  con- 
tent" (1  Tim.  vi.  8),  says  he  this  only  to 
Teachers  ?  By  no  means,  but  to  all  men ;  and 
this  is  clear,  if  we  will  begin  farther  back.  For 
what  does  he  say?  "  Godliness  with  contentment 
is  great  gain  (1  Tim.vi.6)  ;  for  we  brought  noth- 
ing into  this  world,  it  is  certain  that  neither  can 
we  carry  anything  out"  (1  Tim.  vi.  7)  ;  he  then 
straightway  adds,  "  And  having  food  and  cover- 
ing, we  shall  be  therewith  content ;  but  they  that 
desire  to  be  rich,  fall  into  a  temptation  and  a 
snare,  and  many  foolish  and  hurtful  lusts." 
( 1  Tim.  vi.  8,  9.)  You  see  that  this  is  spoken 
to  all ;  and  how  is  it  when  he  says  again,  "  Make 
not  provision  for  the  flesh  to  fulfill  the  lusts 
thereof"  (Rom.  xiii.  14),  is  not  this  said  abso- 
lutely to  all  ?  and  what  when  he  says,  "  Meats 
for  the  belly,  and  the  belly  for  meats,  but  God 
shall  bring  to  nought  both  it  and  them  "  ( 1  Cor. 
vi.  13)  ;  or  what  when  he  says,  "  But  she  that 
giveth  herself  to  pleasure,  is  dead  while  she 
liveth"  (1  Tim.  v.  6),  speaking  of  a  widow. 
Is  then  the  widow  a  Teacher?  Has  not  he  said 
himself,  "  But  I  permit  not  a  woman  to  teach, 
nor  to  have  dominion  over  a  man" ?  ( 1  Tim.  ii. 
12.)  But  if  a  widow,  in  old  age,  (and  age  has 
need  of  great  attendance,)  and  a  woman's  nature 
too,  (for  the  woman's  sex,  being  weak,  has  need 
of  more  refreshment,)  if  then,  where  there  is  both 
the  age  and  the  nature,  he  suffers  her  not  to  live 
in  luxury,  but  even  says  that  she  is  dead,  (for  he 
did  not  simply  forbid  a  life  of  luxury,  but  said, 
"  she  who  giveth  herself  to  luxury  is  dead  while 
she  liveth,")  and  thus  hath  cut  her  off,  (for  she 
that  is  dead  is  cut  off,)  what  indulgence  then 
will  any  man  have,  who  does  those  things, 
for  which  a  woman  and  an  aged  one  too  is 
punished  ? 

Yet  no  one  gives  a  thought  to  these  things, 


228 


WORKS   OF   ST.    CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  IX. 


no  one  searches  them  out.  And  this  I  have 
been  compelled  to  say,  not  from  any  wish  to 
free  the  priests  from  these  charges,  but  to  spare 
you.  They  indeed  suffer  no  harm  at  your  hands, 
even  if  it  is  with  cause  and  justice  that  they  are 
thus  charged  of  being  greedy  of  gain ;  for, 
whether  ye  speak,  or  whether  ye  forbear,  they 
must  there  give  an  account  to  the  Judge,  so 
that  your  words  hurt  them  not  at  all ;  but  if 
your  words  are  false  besides,  they  for  their  part 
gain  by  these  false  accusations,  whilst  ye  hurt 
yourselves  by  these  means.  But  it  is  not  so 
with  you  ;  for  be  the  things  true,  which  ye  bring 
against  them,  or  be  they  false,  ye  speak  ill  of 
them  to  your  hurt.  And  how  so?  If  they  be 
true,  in  that  ye  judge  your  Teachers,  and  sub- 
vert order,  ye  do  it  to  your  hurt.  For  if 
we  must  not  judge  a  brother,  much'  less  a 
Teacher.  But  if  they  be  false,  the  punishment 
and  retribution  is  intolerable ;  for  of  "  every 
idle  word  ye  shall  give  account."  (Matt.  xii. 
36.)     For  your  sake  then  I  thus  act  and  labor. 

But  as  I  said,  no  one  searches  out  these  things, 
no  one  busies  himself  about  these  things,  no  one 
communes  with  himself  on  any  of  these  things. 
Would  ye  that  I  should  add  still  more  ?  "  Whoso- 
ever forsake th  not  all  that  he  hath,  saith  the  Christ, 
is  not  worthy  of  Me."  (Luke  xiv.  33  ;  Matt.  x. 
37.)  What  when  he  says,  "  It  is  hard  for  a  rich 
man  to  enter  into  the  kingdom  of  heaven"? 
(Matt.  xix.  23 ;  Mark  x.  24.)  What  when  he 
says  again,  "  Woe  unto  you  that  are  rich,  for  ye 
have  received  your  consolation"?  (Luke  vi. 
24.)  No  one  searches  this  out,  no  one  bears  it 
in  mind,  no  one  reasons  with  himself,  but  all  sit 
as  severe  inquisitors  on  other  men's  cases.  Yet 
this  is  to  make  themselves  sharers  in  the  charges. 
But  listen,  that  for  your  own  sake  I  may  free  the 
priests  from  the  charges,  which  ye  say  lie  against 
them,  for  the  persuasion  that  they  transgress  the 
law  of  God,  inclines  you  not  a  little  towards  evil. 
Come  then,  let  us  examine  this  matter.  Christ 
said,  "  Provide  neither  gold  nor  silver,  neither 
two  coats,  neither  shoes,  nor  girdle,  nor  yet  staves." 
(Matt.  x.  9, 10.)  What  then?  tell  me,  did  Peter 
transgress  this  command  ?  Surely  he  did  so,  in 
having  a  girdle  and  a  garment,  and  shoes,  for  lis- 
ten to  the  words  of  the  Angel,  "  Gird  thyself,  and 
bind  on  thy  sandals."  (Acts  xii.  8.)  And  yet 
heliad  no  such  great  need  of  sandals,  for  at  that 
season  a  man  may  go  even  unshod ;  their  great 
use  is  in  the  winter,  and  yet  he  had  them. 
What  shall  we  say  of  Paul,  when  he  writes  thus 
to  Timothy,  "  Do  thy  diligence  to  come  before 
winter  "  ?  (2  Tim.  iv.  21.)  He  gives  him  orders 
too  and  says,  "  The  cloak  that  I  left  at  Troas 
with  Carpus  bring  when  thou  comest,  and  the 
books,  especially  the  parchments."  (2  Tim.  iv. 
13.)  See  he  speaks  of  a  cloak,  and  no  one  can 
say  that  he  had  not  another  which  he  wore ;  for 


if  he  did  not  wear  one  at  all,  it  were  superfluous 
to  order  this  one  to  be  brought,  and  if  he  could 
not  be  without  one  to  wear,  it  is  clear  he  had  a 
second. 

What  shall  we  say  of  his  remaining  "two 
whole  years  in  his  own  hired  dwelling  "  ?  (Acts 
xxviii.  30.)  Did  then  this  chosen  vessel  disobey 
Christ  ?  this  man  who  said,  "  Yet  I  live ;  and 
yet  no  longer  I,  but  Christ  liveth  in  me  "  (Gal. 
ii.  20),  concerning  whom  Christ  testified,  saying, 
"  He  is  a  chosen  vessel  unto  Me  "  ?  (Acts  ix. 
15.)  I  ought  to  leave  this  difficulty  with  you, 
without  supplying  any  solution  to  the  question. 
I  ought  to  exact  of  you  this  penalty  for  your 
negligence  in  the  Scriptures,  for  this  is  the  origin 
of  all  such  difficulties.  For  we  know  not  the 
Scriptures,  we  are  not  trained  in  the  law  of  God, 
and  so  we  become  sharp  inquirers  into  the  faults 
of  others,  whilst  we  take  no  account  of  our  own. 
I  ought  then  to  have  exacted  from  you  this  pen- 
alty. But  what  shall  I  do  ?  Fathers  freely  give 
to  their  sons  many  things  beyond  what  is  fitting : 
when  their  fatherly  compassion  is  kindled,  on 
seeing  their  child  with  downcast  look,  and  wasted 
with  grief,  they  themselves  also  feel  sharper 
pangs  than  he,  and  rest  not  until  they  have  re- 
moved the  ground  of  his  dejection. 

So  be  it  at  least  here,  be  ye  at  least  dejected 
at  not  receiving,  that  ye  may  receive  well.  What 
then  is  it?  They  opposed  not,  far  be  it ;  but  dili- 
gently followed  the  commands  of  Christ,  for  those 
commands  were  but  for  a  season,  and  not  endur- 
ing ;  and  this  I  say  not  from  conjecture,  but  from 
the  divine  Scriptures.  And  how?  Luke  relates 
that  Christ  said  to  His  disciples,  "  When  I  sent 
you  forth  without  purse,  and  wallet,  and  girdle, 
and  shoes,  lacked  ye  anything?  And  they  said 
nothing.  (Luke  xxii.  35.)  But  for  the  future 
provide  them."  But  tell  me,  what  could  he 
do  ?  could  he  have  but  one  coat  ?  How  then  ? 
If  need  was  that  this  be  washed,  should  he,  be- 
cause without  it,  stay  at  home  ?  should  he  with- 
out it  go  abroad  in  an  unbecoming  manner,  when 
need  called?  Consider  what  a  thing  it  would 
have  been  that  Paul,  who  made  the  circuit  of 
the  world  with  such  great  success,  should  remain 
at  home  for  want  of  raiment,  and  thus  hinder 
his  noble  work.  And  what  if  violent  cold  had 
set  in,  or  rain  had  drenched  it,  or  perhaps  frozen 
in,  how  could  he  dry  his  raiment?  must  he 
again  remain  without  it  ?  And  what  if  cold  had 
deprived  his  body  of  strength?  must  he  waste 
away  with  disease,  and  be  unable  to  speak? 
For  hear  what  he  says  to  Timothy,  to  prove  that 
they  were  not  furnished  with  adamantine  bodies, 
"Use  a  little  wine  for  thy  stomach's  sake,  and  thine 
often  infirmities."  (1  Tim.  v.  23.)  And  again, 
when  he  speaks  of  another,  "  I  counted  it  neces- 
sary to  send  to  you  your  messenger,  and  minister 
to  my  needs."      (Phil.  ii.  25.)     "  For  indeed. 


Homily  X.] 


HOMILIES   ON   PHILIPPIANS. 


229 


be  was  sick,  nigh  unto  death ;   but  God  had 
mercy  on  him,  and  not  on  him  only,  but  on 
me  also."     (Phil.  ii.  27.)     So  that  they  were 
subject  to  every  sort  of  sickness.     What  then  ? 
must  they  die  ?     By  no  means.    For  what  cause 
then  did  Christ  at  that  time  give  them  that  com- 
mand?   To  show  His  own  power,  and  to  prove 
that  in  after  times  He  was  able  to  do  it,  though 
He  did  it  not.     But  wherefore  did  He  not  do 
it?   They  were  much  more  admirable  than  the 
Israelites,  whose  shoes  did  not  wax  old,  neither 
their  garments,  and    that  too  whilst  they  were 
journeying  through  that  desert  where  the  glow- 
ing rays  of  the  sun  strike  so  hot,  that  they  are 
capable  of  consuming   even  stones.     (Ref.  to 
Deut.  xxix.  5.)    Why  then  did  he  do  this?    For 
thy  sake.     For  since  thou  wouldest  not  remain 
in  health,  but  be  full  of  wounds,  He  gave  you 
that  which  might  serve  for  medicine.     And  this 
is  hence  manifest ;  could  He  not  Himself  have 
fed  them  ?     He  that  gave  to  thee,  who  wast  an 
enemy  with  Him,  would  He  not  much   more 
have  given  to  Paul  ?    He  who  gave  to  the  Israel- 
ites, those   murmurers,  those  fornicators,  those 
idolaters,  would  He  not  much  more  have  given 
to  Peter,  who  spent  all  for  His  sake  ?     He  who 
suffered  wicked  men  to  possess  aught,  would  He 
not  much  more  have  freely  given  to  John,  who 
for  Him  forsook  even  his  father?     Yet  he  would 
not:  through  your  hands  he  feeds  them,  that 
you  may  be  sanctified.     And  see  the  excess  of 
His  lovingkindness.     He  chose  that  His  disci- 
ples should  be  in  want,  that  thou  mightest  be  a 
little  refreshed. 

For  if  He  had  freed  them  from  all  want,  they 
would  have  been  much  more  admirable,  far 
more  glorious.  But  then  that  which  is  to  thee 
salvation  would  have  been  cut  off.  God  willed 
not  then  that  they  should  be  admirable,  that 
thou  mightest  be  saved,  but  that  they  should 
rather  be  lowered.  He  hath  suffered  them  to 
be  less  accounted  of,  that  thou  mightest  be  able 
to  be  saved.     The  Teacher  who  receiveth  is  not 


equally  reverenced,  but  he  who  receives  not  is 
chiefly  honored.  But  then  in  the  latter  case  the 
disciple  is  not  benefited,  he  is  hindered  of  his 
fruit.  Seest  thou  the  wisdom  of  God  who  thus 
loveth  man  ?  For  as  He  Himself  sought  not  His 
own  glory,  nor  had  respect  to  Himself,  but  when 
He  was  in  glory,  chose  to  be  dishonored  for  thy 
sake,  thus  too  is  it  in  the  case  of  your  Teachers. 
When  they  might  have  been  highly  reverenced, 
He  preferred  that  they  should  be  subject  to 
contempt  for  thy  sake,  that  thou  mightest  be 
able  to  profit,  that  thou  mightest  be  able  to  be 
rich.  For  he  is  in  want  of  the  things  of  this 
life,  that  you  may  abound  in  things  spiritual. 
If  then  He  might  have  made  them  above  all 
want,  He  showed  that  for  thy  sake  He  suffers 
them  to  be  in  want.  Knowing  then  these  things, 
let  us  turn  ourselves  to  well  doing,  not  to  accu- 
sations. Let  us  not  be  overcurious  about  the 
failings  of  others,  but  take  account  of  our  own ; 
let  us  reckon  up  the  excellences  of  other  men, 
while  we  bear  in  mind  our  faults ;  and  thus  shall 
we  be  well  pleasing  to  God.  For  he  who  looks 
at  the  faults  of  others,  and  at  his  own  excel- 
lences, is  injured  in  two  ways ;  by  the  latter  he 
is  carried  up  to  arrogance,  through  the  former  he 
falls  into  listlessness.  For  when  he  perceives 
that  such  an  one  hath  sinned,  very  easily  will  he 
sin  himself;  when  he  perceives  that  he  hath  in 
aught  excelled,  very  easily  becometh  he  arro- 
gant. He  who  consigns  to  oblivion  his  own  ex- 
cellences, and  looks  at  his  failings  only,  whilst 
he  is  a  curious  enquirer  of  the  excellences,  not 
the  sins,  of  others,  is  profited  in  many  ways. 
And  how?  When  he  sees  that  such  an  one  hath 
done  excellently,  he  is  raised  to  emulate  the 
same ;  when  he  sees  that  he  himself  hath 
sinned,  he  is  rendered  humble  and  modest.  If 
we  act  thus,  if  we  thus  regulate  ourselves,  we 
shall  be  able  to  obtain  the  good  things  which 
are  promised,  through  the  grace  and  lovingkind- 
ness of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  with  whom,  &c. 


HOMILY    X. 

Phiuppians  iii.  1-3. 


"Finally,  my  brethren,  rejoice  in  the  Lord.  To  write 
the  same  things  to  you,  to  me  indeed  is  not  irksome, 
bat  for  you  it  is  safe.  Beware  of  the  dogs,  beware 
of  the  evil  workers,  beware  of  the  concision.  For 
we  are  the  circumcision,  who  worship  God  in  the 
spirit,  and  glory  in  Christ  Jesus,  and  have  no  con- 
fidence in  the  flesh." 

Dejection  and  care,  whenever  they  strain 
the  soul  beyond  due  measure,  bereave  it  of  its 


native  force.  And  therefore  Paul  relieves  the 
Philippians,  who  were  in  great  despondency, 
and  they  were  in  despondency  because  they  did 
not  know  how  matters  were  with  Paul ;  they 
were  in  despondency  because  they  thought  that 
it  was  already  over  with  him,  because  of  the 
preaching,  because  of  Epaphroditus.  It  is  in 
giving  them  assurance  on  all  these  points  that 
he  introduces  the  words,  "  Finally,  my  brethren, 


230 


WORKS   OF   ST.    CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  X. 


M 


rejoice.''  "You  no  longer  have,"  he  says, 
"  cause  for  despondency.  You  have  Epaphro- 
ditus,  for  whose  sake  you  were  grieved ;  you 
have  Timothy ;  I  am  myself  coming  to  you ; 
the  Gospel  is  gaining  ground.  What  is  hence- 
forth wanting  to  you?     Rejoice  !  " 

Now  he  calls  the  Galatians  indeed  "chil- 
dren" (Gal.  iv.  19),  but  these  "brethren." 
For  when  he  aims  either  to  correct  anything 
or  to  show  his  fondness,  he  calls  them  "chil- 
dren "  ;  but  when  he  addresses  them  with  greater 
honor,  "  brethren  "  is  the  title.  "  Finally,  my 
brethren,"  he  says,  "  rejoice  in  the  Lord."  He 
said  rightly  "in  the  Lord,"  not  "after  the 
world,"  for  this  is  no  rejoicing.  These  tribu- 
lations, he  says,  which  are  according  to  Christ 
bring  joy.  "  To  write  the  same  things  to  you, 
to  me  indeed  is  not  irksome,  but  for  you 
it  is  safe.  Beware  of  the  dogs."  Dost  thou 
mark  how  he  forbears  to  bring  in  the  exhorta- 
tion at  the  beginning?  But  after  he  had  given 
them  much  commendation,  after  he  had  shown 
his  admiration  of  them,  then  he  does  this,  and 
again  repeats  his  commendation.  For  this  mode 
of  speech  seems  to  bear  somewhat  hard  upon 
them.  Wherefore  he  overshadows  it  on  every 
side.  But  whom  does  he  style  "  dogs  "  ?  There 
were  at  this  place  some  of  those,  whom  he  hints 
at  in  all  his  Epistles,  base  and  contemptible 
Jews,  greedy  of  vile  lucre  and  fond  of  power, 
who,  desiring  to  draw  aside  many  of  the  faith- 
ful, preached  both  Christianity  and  Judaism  at 
the  same  time,  corrupting  the  Gospel.  As  then 
they  were  not  easily  discernible,  therefore  he 
says,  "beware  of  the  dogs"  :  the  Jews  are  no 
longer  children ;  once  the  Gentiles  were  called 
dogs,  but  now  the  Jews.  Wherefore?  because 
as  the  Gentiles  were  strangers  both  to  God  and 
to  Christ,  even  so  are  these  become  this  now. 
And  he  shows  forth  their  shamelessness  and  vio- 
lence, and  their  infinite  distance  from  the  rela- 
tion of  children,  for  that  the  Gentiles  were  once 
called  "  dogs,"  hear  what  the  Canaanitish  woman 
says,  "  Yea,  Lord  :  for  even  the  dogs  eat  of  the 
crumbs  which  fall  from  their  masters'  table." 
Matt.  xv.  27.)     But  that  they  might  not  have 

is  advantage,  since  even  dogs  are  at  the  table, 
he  adds  that,  whereby  he  makes  them  aliens 
also,  saying,  "  Beware  of  the  evil  workers  "  ;  he 
admirably  expressed  himself,  "  beware  of  the 
evil  workers  "  ;  they  work,  he  means,  but  for  a 
bad  end,  and  a  work  that  is  much  worse  than 
idleness,  plucking  up  what  is  laid  in  goodly 
order. 

"  Beware,"  he  says,  "  of  the  concision."  The 
rite  of  circumcision  was  venerable  in  the  Jews' 
account,  forasmuch  as  the  Law  itself  gave  way 
thereto,  and  the  Sabbath  was  less  esteemed  than 
circumcision.  For  that  circumcision  might  be 
performed  the  Sabbath  was  broken;* but  that 


£ 


the  Sabbath  might  be  kept,  circumcision  was 
never  broken ;  and  mark,  I  pray,  the  dispensa- 
tion of  God.  This  is  found  to  be  even  more 
solemn  than  the  Sabbath,  as  not  being  omitted 
at  certain  times.1  When  then  it  is  done  away, 
much  more  is  the  Sabbath.  Wherefore  Paul 
makes  a  concision  of  the  name,  and  says,  "  Be- 
ware of  the  concision " ;  and  he  did  not  say 
"  that  circumcision  is  evil,  that  it  is  superfluous," 
lest  he  should  strike  the  men  with  dismay,  but 
he  manages  it  more  wisely,  withdrawing  them 
from  the  thing,  but  gratifying  them  with  the 
word,  nay,  rather  with  the  thing  too,  in  a  more 
serious  way.  But  not  so  in  the  case  of  the  Ga- 
latians, for  since  in  that  case  the  disease  was 
great,  he  forthwith  adopts  the  remedy  of  ampu- 
tation with  open  front  and  with  all  boldness ; 
but  in  this  case,  as  they  had  done  nothing  of  the 
sort,  he  vouchsafes  them  the  gratification  of  the 
title,  he  casts  out  the  others,  and  says,  "  Beware 
of  the  concision ;  for  we  are  the  circumcision  " 
—  how? — "who  worship  God  in  spirit,2  and 
have  no  confidence  in  the  flesh."  He  said  not 
that "  we  test  the  one  circumcision  and  the  other, 
which  is  the  better  of  the  two  "  ;  but  he  would 
not  even  allow  it  a  share  in  the  name ;  but  what 
does  he  say?  That  that  circumcision  is  "con- 
cision." Why?  Because  they  do  nothing  but 
cut  the  flesh  up.  For  when  what  is  done  is  not 
of  the  law,  it  is  nothing  else  than  a  concision 
and  cutting  up  of  the  flesh ;  it  was  then  either 
for  this  reason  that  he  called  it  so,  or  because 
they  were  trying  to  cut  the  Church  in  twain ; 
and  we  call  the  thing  "cutting  up"  in  those 
who  do  this  at  random,  without  aim  and  without 
skill.  Now  if  you  must  seek  circumcision,  he 
says,  you  will  find  it  among  us,  "  who  worship 
God  in  spirit,"  i.e.  who  worship  spiritually. 

For  answer  me,  which  is  superior,  the  soul  or 
the  body?  Evidently  the  former.  Therefore 
that  circumcision  is  also  superior,  or  rather,  no 
longer  superior,  but  this  is  the  only  circumcision  ; 
for  while  the  type  stood,  He  rightly  brought  it 
forward  in  conjunction,  writing,  "  For  ye  shall 
circumcise  the  foreskins  of  your  hearts."  (Jerem. 
iv.  4.)  In  the  same  way  in  the  Epistle  to  the 
Romans  he  does  away  with  it,  saying,  "  for 
he  is  not  a  Jew  which  is  one  outwardly, 
neither  is  that  circumcision  which  is  outward 
in  the  flesh  ;  but  he  is  a  Jew  which  is  one 
inwardly,  and  circumcision  is  that  of  the  heart, 
in  the  spirit,  not  in  the  letter."  (Rom.  ii.  28, 
29.)    And  lastly,  he  takes  from  it  the  very  name, 

1  [The  text  is  very  obscure.  Field,  by  altering  two  words  with- 
out documentary  evidence,  makes  it "  even  that  of  the  Sabbath,  which 
is  more  to  be  reverenced,  is  found  not  to  be  adopted  at  certain 
times";  or  possibly,  "even  that  which  is  more  to  be  reverenced 
than  the  Sabbath,  is  found  not  to  be  adopted,"  etc.  —  J.  A.  B.] 

*  [Field  here  reads  (with  all  his  MSS.)  as  in  Rev.  Ver.  nvtviutri 
0«oC,  "worship  by  the  Spirit  of  God."  But  Chrys.'s  explanation 
(below)  indicates  that  he  read  0ew,  "  worship  God  in  spirit,'  as  in  the 
common  printed  text  of  Chrys.  and  the  Textus  Rec.  of  the  N.  T. — 
J.  A.  B.l 


Homily  X.] 


HOMILIES   ON   PHILIPPIANS. 


231 


"neither  is  it  circumcision,"  he  maintains;  for 
the  type  while  the  reality   is  yet   to  come,  is 
called  this,  but  when  the  reality  has  come,  it  no 
longer  retains  the   title.     As  in   delineation,  a 
man  has  drawn  a  king  in  outline  ;  so  long  as  the 
colors  are  not  put  on  we  say,  Lo,  there  is  the 
king,  but  when  they  are  added,  the  type  is  lost 
in  the  reality,  and  ceases  to  show.     And  he  said 
not,  "  for  the  circumcision  is  in  us,"  but  "  we  are 
the  circumcision,"  and  justly;   for  this   is  the 
Man,  the  circumcision  in  virtue,  this  is  really  the 
Man.  And  he  did  not  say,  "  For  among  them  is 
the  concision  "  ;  for  they  themselves  are  hence- 
forth in  a  condition  of  ruin  and  of  wickedness. 
But  no  longer,  says  he,  is  circumcision  performed 
in  the  body,  but  in  the  heart.      "  And  have  no 
confidence,"  says   he,  "  in  the  flesh ;  though  I 
myself  might  have  confidence  even  in  the  flesh." 
(v.  4.)    What  does  he  call  "  confidence  "  here, 
and  "  in  the  flesh  "  ?     Boasting,  boldness,  a  high 
tone.    And  he  did  well  to  add  this ;  for  if  he 
had  been  of  the  Gentiles,  and  had  condemned 
circumcision,  and  not  only  circumcision,  but  all 
those  that  adopted  it  out  of  place,  it  would  have 
seemed  that  he  was  running  it  down,  because  he 
lacked  the  high  ancestry  of  Judaism,  as  being  a 
stranger  to  its  solemn  rites,  and  having  no  part 
therein.    But  as  it  is,  he,  who,  though  a  sharer, 
yet  blames  them,  will  not  therefore  blame  them 
as  having  no  share  in  them,  but  as  disowning 
them;  not  from  ignorance,  but  most  especially 
from  acquaintance    with    them.      Accordingly 
observe  what  he  says  in  his  Epistle  to  the  Gala- 
nans  also ;  having  been  brought  into  a  necessity 
of  saying  great  things  about  himself,  how  even 
in  these  circumstances  does  he  manifest  nought 
but  humility.     "  For  ye  have  heard  of  my  man- 
ner of  life  in  time  past,"  he  says,  "in  the  Jews' 
religion"  (Gal.  i.  13)  ;  and  again  here  ;  "if  any 
other  man  thinketh  to  have  confidence  in  the 
feh,  I  more."     (v.  4.)     And  he   immediately 
added,  "  a  Hebrew  of  Hebrews."     But  "  if  any 
°ther  man,"   says  he,   showing    the   necessity, 
showing  that  it  was  on  their  account  that   he 
sPoke.    "  If  ye  have  confidence,"  he  says,  I  also 
^y  so,  since  I  am  silent.1      And   observe   the 
absence  of  all  ungraciousness  in  the  reproofs ; 
°y  forbearing  to  do  it  by  name,  he  gave  even 
them  the  opportunity  of  retracing  their  steps. 
If  anyone  thinketh  to  have  confidence  "  ;  and 
lt  vras  well  to  say  "  thinketh,"  either  inasmuch 
*s  they  really  had  no  such  confidence,  or  as  that 
cOnfidence  was  no  real  confidence,  for  all  was  by 
^^cessity,  and  not  of  choice.     "  Circumcised  on 
***e  eighth  day  "  ;  and  he  sets  down  the  first  that 
^Herein  they  chiefly  boasted,  viz.  the  ordinance 
°f  circumcision.    "  Of  the  stock  of  Israel."     He 
Pointed  out  both  these  circumstances,  that  he 
neither  a  proselyte,  nor  born  of  proselytes  ; 

1  [This  is  rery  obscure.  The  altered  text  does  not  help.  — J.  A.  B.  ] 


a 


for  from  his  being  circumcised  on  the  eighth 
day,  it  follows  that  he  was  not  a  proselyte,  and 
from  his  being  of  the  stock  of  Israel,  that  he  was 
not  of  proselyte  parents.  But  that  you  may  not 
imagine  that  he  was  of  the  stock  of  Israel  as 
coming  of  the  ten  tribes,  he  says,  "  of  the  tribe 
of  Benjamin."  So  that  he  was  of  the  more  ap- 
proved portion,  for  the  place  of  the  priests  was 
in  the  lot  of  this  tribe.  "  An  Hebrew  of 
Hebrews."  Because  he  was  not  a  proselyte,  but 
from  of  old,  of  distinguished  Jews ;  for  he 
might  have  been  of  Israel,  and  yet  not  "an 
Hebrew  of  Hebrews,"  for  many  were  already 
corrupting  the  matter,2  and  were  strangers  to 
the  language,  being  encircled  by  other  nations ; 
it  is  either  this  then,  or  the  great  superiority 
of  his  birth,  that  he  shows.  "  According  to  the 
law  a  Pharisee."  He  is  coming  now  to  the 
circumstances  dependent  on  his  own  will ;  for 
all  those  things  were  apart  from  the  will,  for  his 
being  circumcised  was  not  of  himself,  nor  that  he 
was  of  the  stock  of  Israel,  nor  that  he  was  of 
the  tribe  of  Benjamin.  So  that,  even  among 
these  he  has  a  larger  share,  even  though 
there  were  really  many  who  partook  with  him. 
Where  then  are  we  to  place  the  "rather"? 
Particularly  herein  that  he  was  not  a  proselyte  ; 
for  to  be  of  the  most  distinguished  tribe  and 
sect,  and  this  from  his  ancestors  of  old,  was  a 
thing  which  belonged  not  to  many.  But  he 
comes  to  the  things  which  are  matters  of  choice, 
wherein  we  have  the  "  rather."  "  As  touching 
the  law,  a  Pharisee  ;  as  touching  zeal,  persecut- 
ing the  Church."  But  this  is  not  sufficient ;  for 
it  is  possible  to  be  a  Pharisee  even,  and  yet  not 
very  zealous.  But  this  also  he  adds ;  behold 
the  "  rather."  "  According  to  righteousness." 
It  is  possible,  however,  to  be  adventurous,  or  to 
act  thus 3  from  ambition,  and  not  out  of  zeal  for 
the  law,  as  the  chief  priests  did.  Yet  neither 
was  this  the  case,  but,  "  according  to  the  right- 
eousness which  is  in  the  law,  found  blameless." 
If  then  both  for  purity  of  descent,  and  earnest- 
ness, and  habits,  and  mode  of  life,  I  surpassed 
all,  why  have  I  renounced  all  those  dignities,  he 
asks,  but  because  I  found  that  the  things  of 
Christ  are  better,  and  better  far  ?  Wherefore  he 
added ;  "  howbeit  what  things  were  gain  to  me, 
these  have  I  counted  loss  for  Christ."  (v.  7.) 

Such  a  course  of  life,  so  strictly  regulated,  and 
entered  upon  from  earliest  childhood,  such  un- 
blemished extraction,  such  dangers,  plots,  labors, 
forwardness,  did  Paul  renounce,  "  counting  them 
but  loss,"  which  before  were  "gain,"  that  he 
might  "  win  Christ."  But  we  do  not  even  con- 
temn money,  that  we  may  "  win  Christ,"  but 
prefer  to  fail  of  the  life  to  come  rather  than  of 
the  good  things  of  the  present  life.     And  yet 


*  i.e.  the  purity  of  their  descent. 

3  i.e.  to  snow  zeal,  as  he  had  done  in  persecuting. 


232 


WORKS   OF   ST.    CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  X. 


this  is  nothing  else  than  loss ;  for  tell  me  now, 
let  us  examine  in  detail  the  conditions  of  riches, 
and  see  whether  it  be  not  loss  accompanied  with 
trouble,  and  without  any  gain.  For  tell  me, 
what  is  the  advantage  of  those  stores  of  costly 
garments,  what  good  do  we  gain  when  we  are 
arrayed  in  them  ?  None,  nay,  we  are  only  losers. 
How  so?  Because  even  the  poor  man,  in  his 
cheap  and  threadbare  clothing,  does  not  bear 
the  scorching  in  time  of  heat  any  wise  worse 
than  yourself;  nay,  rather  he  bears  it  better,  for 
clothes  that  are  threadbare  and  worn  single  allow 
more  ease  to  the  body,  but  not  so  with  those 
which  are  new  made,  though  they  be  finer  than 
the  spider's  web.  Besides,  you,  from  your  ex- 
cessive self-importance,  wear  even  two  and  often 
three  inner  garments,  and  a  cloak  and  girdle, 
and  breeches  too,  but  no  one  blames  him  if  he 
wears  but  a  single  inner  garment ;  so  that  he  is 
the  man  that  endures  most  easily.  It  is  owing 
to  this  that  we  see  rich  men  sweating,  but  the 
poor  subject  to  nothing  of  the  sort.  Since  then 
his  cheap  clothing,  which  is  sold  for  a  trifle, 
answers  the  same  or  even  a  better  purpose  to 
him,  and  those  clothes,  which  oblige  a  man  to 
pay  down  much  gold,  do  only  the  same  thing, 
is  not  this  great  superabundance  so  much  loss? 
For  it  has  added  nothing  in  respect  of  its  use 
and  service,  but  your  purse  is  emptied  of  so 
much  the  more  gold,  and  the  same  use  and  ser- 
vice. You  who  have  riches  have  purchased  for 
a  hundred  pieces  of  gold,  or  even  more,  but  the 
poor  man  for  a  trifling  sum  of  silver.  Do  you 
perceive  the  loss?  No,  for  your  pride  will  not 
let  you  see  it.  Would  you  have  us  make  out 
this  account  in  the  case  of  the  gold  ornaments 
too,  which  men  put  alike  about  their  horses  and 
their  wives?  For  besides  the  other  evils,  the 
possession  of  money  makes  fools  of  men ;  they 
account  their  wives  and  horses  to  be  worthy  of 
the  same  honor,  and  the  ornamentation  of  both 
is  the  same ;  and  they  would  make  themselves 
finer  by  the  same  means  as  the  very  beasts  that 
carry  them,  or  as  the  very  skins  of  the  awnings, 
wherein  they  are  borne.  What  now  is  the  use 
of  decking  out  a  mule  or  a  horse  with  gold  ?  or 
the  lady,  that  has  such  a  weight  of  gold  and 
jewels  about  her  person,  what  does  she  gain? 
"  But  the  golden  ornaments  are  never  worn  out," 
he  answers.  Assuredly  this  also  is  said  that  in 
the  baths  and  many  places  both  precious  stones 
and  gold  ornaments  lose  much  of  their  value. 
But  be  it  so,  and  grant  that  they  are  not  injured, 
tell  me,  what  is  the  gain  ?  And  how  is  it  when 
they  drop  out,  and  are  lost?  is  there  no  loss 
sustained?  And  how  when  they  draw  down 
upon  you  envy  and  intrigues?  is  there  no  loss 
then  ?  For  when  they  do  the  wearer  no  good, 
but  rather  inflame  the  eyes  of  the  envious,  and 
act  as  an  incitement  to  the  robber,  do  they  not 


become  loss  ?  And  again,  say,  when  a  man  may 
use  them  for  a  serviceable  purpose,  but  is  unable 
on  account  of  the  extravagance  of  his  wife,  and 
is  obliged  to  starve  and  to  stint  himself,  that  he 
may  see  her  arrayed  in  gold,  is  it  not  a  matter 
of  loss  ?  For  it  was  on  this  account  that  goods 
have  their  name  from  use,1  not  that  we  should 
use  them  thus  like  goldsmiths'  samples,  but  that 
we  should  do  some  good  therewith;  so  then 
when  love  of  gold  does  not  allow  this,  is  not  the 
whole  thing  loss  ?  for  he  that  dares  not  use  them 
forbears  the  use  as  if  they  were  another's  prop- 
erty, and  there  is  no  use  of  them  in  any  way. 

Again,  how  is  it  when  we  erect  splendid  and 
spacious  mansions,  decorated  with  columns, 
marbles,  porticos,  arcades,  and  in  every  possible 
way,  setting  images  and  statues  everywhere? 
Many  indeed  even  call  demons  out  of  these,  i.e. 
the  images,  but  let  us  omit  the  examination  of 
those  points.  What  too  is  the  meaning  of  the 
gilded  ceiling?  Does  it  not  supply  the  same 
need  as  to  him,  whose  house  is  on  a  moderate 
scale  ?  "  But  there  is  great  delight  in  it,"  he  says. 
Yes,  for  the  first  or  second  day,  and  afterwards, 
none  at  all,  but  it  stands  merely  for  nothing. 
For  if  the  sun  does  not  strike  us  with  wonder, 
from  its  being  customary,  much  more  do  works 
of  art  fail,  and  we  only  look  at  them  like  things 
of  clay.  For  tell  me,  what  does  a  range  of 
pillars  contribute  to  make  your  dwelling  superior 
to  others,  or  the  finest  statues,  or  the  gilding 
spread  over  the  wall  ?  Nothing ;  rather,  these 
come  of  luxury  and  insolence,  and  overweening 
pride  and  folly ;  for  everything  there  ought  to  be 
necessary  and  useful,  not  superfluous  things. 
Do  you  see  that  the  thing  is  loss?  Do  you  see 
that  it  is  superfluous  and  unprofitable?  for  if 
it  supplies  no  further  use  or  delight,  (and  it 
"does,"  in  the  course  of  time,  bring  satiety,) 
it  is  nothing  else  than  loss,  and  vainglory  is  ther 
hindrance,  which  will  not  let  us  see  this. 

Did  Paul  then  forsake  those  things  which  he 
"  counted  gain,"  and  shall  not  we  even  quit  ou« 
loss,  for  Christ's  sake  ?  How  long  shall  we 
riveted  to  the  earth?  How  long  till  we  shi 
look  up  to  heaven  ?  Do  ye  not  mark  the  ag( 
what  little  perception  they  have  of  the  past-  ? 
Do  ye  not  mark  those  that  are  finishing  the  ^r 
course,  both  men  in  age,  and  men  in  youths? 
Do  ye  not  see  persons  in  the  midst  of  life  bere^  ft 
of  them?  Why  are  we  so  wedded  to  unstat^le 
objects?  Why  are  we  linked  to  things  that 
shifting?  How  long  before  we  lay  hold  of  t" 
things  that  last?  What  would  not  the  old  gi> 
were  it  granted  them  to  divest  themselves 
their  old  age  ?  How  irrational  then  to  wish 
return  to  our  former  youth,  and  gladly  to  g^ve 
everything  for  the  sake  of  this,  that  we  migrht 
become  younger,  and  yet  when  it  is  ours  to 

1  i.e.  xPW*aTa*  from  \paa9*i  "  to  use." 


e 

of 
to 


Homily  X.] 


HOMILIES   ON    PHILIPPIANS. 


233 


ceive  a  youth  that  knows  no  old  age,  a  youth 
too,  which,  joined  with  great  riches,  hath  far 
more  of  spirit,  to  be  unwilling  to  give  up  a  little 
trifle,  but  to  hold  fast  things  that  contribute  not 
a  whit  to  the  present  life.  They  can  never 
rescue  you  from  death,  they  have  no  power  to 
drive  away  disease,  to  stay  old  age,  or  any  one 
of  those  events,  which  happen  by  necessity  and 
according  to  the  law  of  nature.  And  do  you 
still  hold  to  them  ?  Tell  me,  what  do  you  gain  ? 
Drunkenness,  gluttony,  pleasures  contrary  to 
nature  and  various  in  kind,  which  are  far  worse 
torturers  than  the  hardest  masters. 

These  are  the  advantages  which  we  gain  from 
riches,  nor  is  there  one  besides,  since  we  are 
not  so  minded,  for  if  we  had  had  the  mind,  we 
might  have  won  heaven  itself  for  our  inheritance 
by  our  riches.  "So  then  riches  are  good,"  he 
says.  It  is  not  riches,  but  the  will  of  the  pos- 
sessor that  effects  this,  for  because  it  is  the  will 
that  does  this,  it  is  in  the  power  even  of  a  poor 
man  to  win  heaven.  For,  as  I  have  often  said, 
God  does  not  regard  the  amount  of  the  gifts, 
but  the  will  of  the  givers ;  it  is  possible  even  for 
one  in  poverty,  who  has  given  but  little,  to  bear 
off  all,  for  God  requires  a  measure  proportioned 
to  our  ability,  neither  will  riches  secure  heaven 
to  us,  nor  poverty,  hell ;  but  a  good  or  a  bad 
will,  either  one  or  the  other.  This  then  let  us 
correct,  this  let  us  repossess,  this  let  us  regulate, 
and  all  will  then  be  easy  to  us. 

For  as  the  artificer  works  the  wood  the  same, 
whether  his  axe  be  of  iron  or  of  gold,  or  rather 
he  does  it  the  better  with  an  implement  of  iron, 
so  here  too,  the  straight  path  of  virtue  is  more 
easily  kept  in  a  state  of  poverty.  For  touching 
riches  we  read,  "  It  is  easier  for  a  camel  to  go 
through  a  needled  eye,  than  for  a  rich  man  to 
enter  into  the  kingdom  of  Heaven."  (Matt, 
tix.  24.)  But  He  has  made  no  such  declara- 
tions about  poverty ;  nay,  the  very  reverse. 
"Sell  thy  goods,  and  give  to  the  poor,  and  come 
follow  Me"  (v.  21)  ;  as  if  the  act  of  following 
were  to  spring  from  the  selling. 

Never  then  let  us  flee  from  poverty  as  an  evil, 
for  it  is  the  procurer  of  heaven.  Again,  let  us 
never  follow  riches  as  a  good ;  for  they  are  the 
^n  of  such  as  walk  unwarily,  but  in  everything 
directing  our  eyes  to  God,  let  us,  as  occasion 
Quires,  use  those  gifts  which  He  has  vouch- 
safed us,  both  strength  of  body,  and  abundance 
°f  money,  and  every  other  gift ;  for  it  is  unnat- 
t&al  that  we,  who  have  our  being  for  Him,  should 
^fcke  these  things  serviceable  to  others,  yet  not 
10  Him  who  has  made  us.  He  formed  thine 
eye:  make  it  serviceable  to  Him,  not  to  the 
"evil.  But  how  serviceable  to  Him  ?  By  con- 
templating His  creatures  and  praising  and  glori- 
fying Him,  and  by  withdrawing  it  from  ail  gaze 
at women.    Did  He  make  thy  hands?   Preserve 


them  for  His  use,  not  for  the  devil,  not  putting 
them  out  for  robbery  and  rapine,  but  for  His 
commandments  and  for  good  deeds,  for  earnest 
prayers,  for  holding  out  help  to  the  fallen.  Hath 
He  made  thine  ears?  Give  these  to  Him,  and 
not  to  effeminate *  strains  nor  to  disgraceful  tales  ; 
but  "  let  all  thy  communication  be  in  the  law  of 
the  Most  High."  (Ecclus.  ix.  15.)  For  "  stand," 
he  says,  "  in  the  multitude  of  the  elders,  and  who- 
ever is  wise,  cleave  unto  him."  (Ecclus.  vi.  34.) 
Did  he  make  thy  mouth  ?  Let  it  do  nought  that 
is  displeasing  to  Him,  but  sing  psalms,  hymns, 
and  spiritual  songs.  "  Let  no  corrupt  speech 
proceed  out  of  your  mouth,"  says  the  Apostle, 
"  but  such  as  is  good  for  edifying  as  the  need 
may  be,  that  it  may  give  grace  to  them  that 
hear"  (Eph.  iv.  29);  for  edification  and  not 
for  subversion,  for  fair  words  and  not  for  evil 
speaking  and  plotting  against  other,  but  the  very 
opposite.  He  hath  made  thy  feet,  not  that  thou 
shouldest  run  to  do  evil,  but  to  do  good.  He 
made  thy  belly,  not  that  thou  shouldest  cram  it 
to  bursting,  but  to  practice  lessons  of  wisdom. 
For  the  production  of  children,  He  implanted 
desire  in  thy  mind,  not  for  fornication,  nor  for 
adultery.  He  gave  thee  understanding,  not  to 
make  of  thee  a  blasphemer  or  a  reviler,  but  that 
thou  mightest  be  without  falsehood.  He  gave  us 
both  money  to  be  used  on  fitting  occasion,  and 
strength  likewise  to  be  used  on  fitting  occasion. 
He  instituted  arts,  that  our  present  state  of  ex- 
istence might  be  held  together  by  them,  not 
that  we  should  separate  ourselves  from  spiritual 
things,  not  that  we  should  devote  ourselves  to 
the  base  arts  but  to  the  necessary  ones,  that  we 
might  minister  to  one  another's  good,  and  not 
that  we  should  plot  one  against  another.  He 
gave  us  a  roof,  that  it  might  afford  shelter  from 
the  rain,  and  no  more,  not  that  it  should  be 
decked  out  with  gold,  while  the  poor  man 
perishes  with  hunger.  He  gave  clothing  to 
cover  us,  not  to  make  a  display  withal,  not 
that  things  like  these  should  have  much  gold 
lavished  upon  them,  and  that  Christ  should 
perish  naked.  He  gave  you  a  place  of  shelter, 
not  that  you  should  keep  it  to  yourself,  but  to 
offer  it  to  others  also.  He  gave  thee  land,  not 
that,  cutting  off  the  chief  portion  of  it,  you 
should  spend  the  good  gifts  of  God  upon  har- 
lots, and  dancers,  and  actors,  and  flute  players, 
and  harp  players,  but  upon  those  that  hunger 
and  are  in  want.  He  gave  you  the  sea  to  sail 
on,  that  you  might  not  be  wearied  with  journey- 
ing, not  that  you  should  pry  into  its  depths,  and 
bring  up  thence  precious  stones  and  ail  the  other 
things  of  the  same  kind,  nor  that  you  should 
make  this  your  business. 

"Why  then  are  there  precious  stones?"   he 

1  StcuccwAao-fAeVaic,  "  broken,"  so  called  from  using  the  chromatic 
scale  to  excess. 


234 


WORKS   OF   ST.    CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  XI. 


says.  -Nay,  do  you  tell  me  why  these  stones 
are  such,  and  why  one  class  are  regarded  as  of 
great  value,  while  the  others  are  more  useful? 
For  these  may  be  conducive  to  building,  but 
those  to  no  purpose;  and  these  are  stronger 
than  those.  "  But  they,"  he  says,  "  produce  a 
beautiful  effect."  How  so?  it  is  a  matter  of 
fancy.  Are  they  whiter?  No,  they  are  not 
whiter  than  pure  white  marble,  nor  nearly  equal 
to  it.  But  are 'they  stronger?  Not  even  this 
can  be  said  for  them.1  Well  then,  are  they 
more  useful?  are  they  larger?  Not  even  this. 
Whence  then  are  they  so  admired,  save  from 
fancy?  For  if  they  are  neither  more  beautiful, 
(for  we  shall  find  others  more  shining  and 
more  white,)  nor  useful,  nor  stronger,  whence 
came  they  to  be  so  admired?  Was  it  not  from 
mere  fancy?  Why  then  did  God  give  them? 
They  were  not  His  gift,  but  it  is  your  own  imag- 
ination that  they  are  anything  great.  "  How  is 
it,  then,"  he  answers,  "  that  even  the  Scripture 
shows  admiration  of  them?  "  So  far  it  addresses 
itself  to  your  fancy.  As  a  master  too  in  talking 
to  a  child  often  admires  the  same  object  as  it 
does,  when  he  desires  to  attract  and  engage  it. 

Why  do  you  aim  at  finery  in  your  clothing? 
He  clothed  thee  with  a  garment  and  with  san- 
dals. But  where  is  there  any  reason  for  these 
things?      "The  judgments  of  God,"  he  says, 


"are  more  to  be  desired  than  gold,  yea  than 
much  fine  gold."  (Ps.  xix.  10.)  These,  be- 
loved, are  of  no  use.  Had  they  been  of  use,  he 
would  not  have  bidden  us  despise  them.  And 
for  Holy  Scripture,  it  speaks  with  reference  to 
our  notion,  and  this  too  is  an  instance  of  God's 
lovingkindness.  "  Why  then,"  he  asks,  "  did  He 
give  purple  and  the  like?"  These  things  are 
products  of  God's  gift.  For  He  has  willed  by 
other  things  also  to  show  forth  His  own  riches. 
And  He  gave  you  corn  too  by  itself;  but  from 
this  you  make  many  things,  cakes  and  sweet- 
meats, of  every  sort  and  variety,  having  much 
enjoyment.  Pleasure  and  vainglory  give  rise  to 
all  these  inventions.  It  pleased  you  to  set  them 
before  everything.  For  if  a  foreigner  or  a  rustic, 
who  was  ignorant  of  the  land,  should  put  the 
question,  and,  seeing  your  admiration,  were  to 
say,  "  Why  do  you  admire  these? "  What  have 
you  to  say?  that  they  are  fair  to  look  at?  But 
not  so.  Let  us  then  give  up  such  notions  ;  let 
us  lay  hold  of  the  things  that  are  truly  real. 
These  are  not,  but  simply  pass  away,  only  flow- 
ing past  like  a  river.  Wherefore  I  charge  you, 
let  us  take  our  stand  upon  the  rock,  that  we 
both  escape  being  easily  turned  about,  and  that 
we  may  obtain  the  good  things  to  come,  by  the 
grace  and  lovingkindness  of  our  Lord  Jesus 
Christ,  with  whom,    &c. 


HOMILY    XI. 

Philippians  iii.  7-10. 


4t 


Howbeit  what  things  were  gain  to  me,  these  have  I 
counted  loss  for  Christ.  Yea  verily,  and  I  counted  all 
things  to  be  loss  for  the  excellency  of  the  knowledge 
of  Christ  Jesus  my  Lord :  for  whom  I  suffered  the 
loss  of  all  things,  and  do  count  them  but  dung,  that 
I  may  gain  Christ,  and  be  found  in  Him,  not  having 
a  righteousness  of  mine  own,  even  that  which  is  of 
the  law,  but  that  which  is  through  faith  in  Christ, 
the  righteousness  which  is  of  God." 


In  our  contests  with  heretics,  we  must  make 
the  attack  with  minds  in  vigor,  that  they  may  be 
able  to  give  exact  attention.  I  will  therefore 
begin  my  present  discourse  where  the  last  ended. 
And  what  was  that  ?  Having  enumerated  every 
Jewish  boast,  both  those  from  his  birth,  and 
those  that  were  from  choice,  he  added,  "  How- 
beit, what  things  were  gain  to  me,  these  have  I 
counted  to  be  loss  for  the  excellency  of  the 
knowledge  of  Christ  Jesus  my  Lord ;  for  whom 
I  suffered  the  loss  of  all  things,  and  do  count 
them  but  dung,  that  I  may  gain  Christ."     Here 


1  He  refers  to  pearls. 


the  heretics  spring  to  their  attack :  for  even  this 
comes  of  the  wisdom  of  the  Spirit,  to  suggest  to 
them  hopes  of  victory,  that  they  may  undertake 
the  fight. 

For  if  it  had  been  spoken  plainly,  they  would 
have  acted  here  as  they  have  done  in  other 
places,  they  would  have  blotted  out  the  words, 
they  would  have  denied  the  Scripture,  when  they 
were  unable  at  all  to  look  it  in  the  face.  But  as 
in  the  case  of  fishes,  that  which  can  take  them  is 
concealed  so  that  they  may  swim  up,  and  does 
not  lie  open  to  view ;  this  in  truth  hath  come  to 
pass  here  too.  The  Law,  they  say,  is  called 
"  dung  "  by  Paul,  it  is  called  "  loss."  He  says, 
it  was  not  possible  to  gain  Christ  except  I 
"suffered"  this  "loss."  All  these  things  in- 
duced the  heretics  to  accept  this  passage,  think- 
ing it  to  be  favorable  to  them :  but  when  they 
had  taken  it,  then  did  he  enclose  them  on  all 
sides  with  his  nets.  For  what  do  they  them- 
selves say?  Lo  !  the  Law  is  "loss,"  is  "dung"  ; 
how  then  do  ye  say  that  it  is  of  God  ? 


Homily  XI.] 


HOMILIES   ON   PHILIPPIANS. 


235 


But  these  very  words  are  favorable  to  the  Law, 
and  how  they  are  so,  shall  be  hence  manifest. 
Let  us  attend  accurately  to  his  very  words.  He 
said  not,  The  Law  is  loss :  but  "  I  counted  it 
loss."  But  when  he  spake  of  gain,  he  said  not, 
I  counted  them,  but  "  they  were  gain."  But 
when  he  spake  of  loss  he  said, "  I  counted  "  :  and 
this  rightly ;  for  the  former  was  naturally  so,  but 
the  latter  became  so,  from  my  opinion.  "  What 
then?  Is  it  not  so?"  says  he.  It  is  loss  for 
Christ. 

And  how  has  the  law  become  gain  ?  And  it 
was  not  counted  gain,  but  was  so.  For  con- 
sider how  great  a  thing  it  was,  to  bring  men, 
brutalized  in  their  nature,  to  the  shape  of  men. 
If  the  law  had  not  been,  grace  would  not  have 
been  given.  Wherefore  ?  Because  it  became  a 
sort  of  bridge ;  for  when  it  was  impossible  to 
mount  on  high  from  a  state  of  great  abasement, 
a  ladder  was  formed.  But  he  who  has  ascended 
has  no  longer  need  of  the  ladder ;  yet  he  does 
not  despise  it,  but  is  even  grateful  to  it.  For  it 
has  placed  him  in  such  a  position,  as  no  longer 
to  require  it.  And  yet  for  this  very  reason,  that 
he  doth  not  require  it,  it  is  just  that  he  should 
acknowledge  his  obligation,  for  he  could  not  fly 
up.  And  thus  is  it  with  the  Law,  it  hath  led  us 
up  on  high ;  wherefore  it  was  gain,  but  for  the 
future  we  esteem  it  loss.  How?  Not  because 
it  is  loss,  but  because  grace  is  far  greater.  For 
as  a  poor  man,  that  was  in  hunger,  as  long  as  he 
has  silver,  escapes  hunger,  but  when  he  finds 
gold,  and  it  is  not  allowable  to  keep  both,  con- 
siders it  loss  to  retain  the  former,  and  having 
thrown  it  away,  takes  the  gold  coin;  so  also 
here ;  not  because  the  silver  is  loss,  for  it  is  not ; 
but  because  it  is  impossible  to  take  both  at 
once,  but  it  is  necessary  to  leave  one.  Not  the 
Law  then  is  loss,  but  for  a  man  to  cleave  to  the 
Law,  and  desert  Christ.  Wherefore  it  is  then 
loss  when  it  leads  us  away  from  Christ.  But  if 
it  sends  us  on  to  Him,  it  is  no  longer  so.  For 
this  cause  he  saith  "  loss  for  Christ " ;  if  for 
Christ,  it  is  not  so  naturally.  But  why  doth  not 
the  Law  suffer  us  to  come  to  Christ?  For  this 
very  cause,  he  tells  us,  was  it  given.  And  Christ 
is  the  fulfilling  of  the  Law,  and  Christ  is  the  end 
of  the  Law.  It  doth  suffer  us  if  we  will.  "  For 
Christ  is  the  end  of  the  Law."  He  who  obeyeth 
the  Law,  leaves  the  Law  itself.  It  suffers,  if  we 
toke  heed  to  it,  but  if  we  do  not  take  heed,  it 
surTers  not.  "  Yea  verily,  and  I  have  counted 
all  things  but  loss."  Why,  he  means,  do  I  say 
this  of  the  Law?  Is  not  the  world  good?  Is 
°ot the  present  life  good?  but  if  they  draw  me 
aw*y  from  Christ,  I  count  these  things  loss. 
Why?  "  for  the  excellency  of  the  knowledge  of 
Jesus  Christ  my  Lord."  For  when  the  sun  hath 
aPpeared,  it  is  loss  to  sit  by  a  candle :  so  that 
the  loss  comes  by  comparison,  by  the  superiority 


of  the  other.  You  see  that  Paul  makes  a  com- 
parison from  superiority,  not  from  diversity  of 
kind ;  for  that  which  is  superior,  is  superior  to 
somewhat  of  like  nature  to  itself.  So  that  he 
shows  the  connection  of  that  knowledge  by  the 
same  means,  by  which  he  draws  the  superiority 
from  the  comparison.  "  For  whom  I  suffered 
the  loss  of  all  things,  and  do  count  them  dung, 
that  I  may  gain  Christ."  It  is  not  yet  manifest, 
whether  he  speaks  of  the  Law,  for  it  is  likely 
that  he  applies  it  to  the  things  of  this  world. 
For  when  he  says,  "  the  things  which  were  gain 
to  me,  those  I  have  counted  loss  for  Christ ;  yea 
verily,"  he  adds,  "  I  count  all  things  loss."  Al- 
though he  said  all  things,  yet  it  is  things  present ; 
and  if  you  wish  it  to  be  the  Law  too,  not  even  so 
is  it  insulted.  For  dung  comes  from  wheat,  and 
the  strength  of  the  wheat  is  the  dung,  I  mean, 
the  chaff.  But  as  the  dung  was  useful  in  its 
former  state,  so  that  we  gather  it  together  with 
the  wheat,  and  had  there  been  no  dung,  there 
would  have  been  no  wheat,  thus  too  is  it  with 
the  Law. 

Seest  thou,  how  everywhere  he  calls  it  "loss," 
not  in  itself,  but  for  Christ.  "  Yea  verily,  and  I 
count  all  things  but  loss."  Wherefore  again? 
"  For  the  excellency  of  the  knowledge  (of  Him), 
for  whom  I  suffered  the  loss  of  all  things." 
Again,  "  wherefore  too  I  count  all  things  to  be 
loss,  that  I  may  gain  Christ." 

See  how,  from  every  point,  he  lays  hold  of 
Christ  as  his  foundation,  and  suffers  not  the  Law 
to  be  anywhere  exposed,  or  receive  a  blow,  but 
guards  it  on  every  side.  "  And  that  I  may  be 
found  in  Him,  not  having  a  righteousness  of 
mine  own,  even  that  which  is  of  the  Law."  If 
he  who  had  righteousness,  ran  to  this  other 
righteousness  because  his  own  was  nothing,  how 
much  rather  ought  they,  who  have  it  not,  to  run 
to  Him?  And  he  well  said,  "a  righteousness 
of  mine  own,"  not  that  which  I  gained  by  labor 
and  toil,  but  that  which  I  found  from  grace. 
If  then  he  who  was  so  excellent  is  saved  by 
grace,  much  more  are  you.  For  since  it  was 
likely  they  would  say  that  the  righteousness 
which  comes  from  toil  is  the  greater,  he  shows 
that  it  is  dung  in  comparison  with  the  other. 
For  otherwise  I,  who  was  so  excellent  in  it, 
would  not  have  cast  it  away,  and  run  to  the 
other.  But  what  is  that  other?  That  which  is 
from  the  faith  of  God,  i.e.  it  too  is  given  by 
God.  This  is  the  righteousness  of  God  ;  this  is 
altogether  a  gift.  And  the  gifts  of  God  far  ex- 
ceed those  worthless  good  deeds,  which  are  due 
to  our  own  diligence. 

But  what  is  "  By  faith  that  I  may  know 
Him"?1     So  then  knowledge  is  through  faith, 


1  [The  words  "by  faith,"  literally,  "upon  faith."  arc  usually 
understood  as  connected  with  "  righteousness";  but  in  strictness  of 
Greek  syntax  this  cannot  be,  and  they  are  better  connected  with 


236 


WORKS   OF   ST.   CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  XI. 


and  without  faith  it  is  impossible  to  know  Him. 
Why  how?  Through  it  we  must  "know  the 
power  of  His  resurrection."  For  what  reason 
can  demonstrate  to  us  the  Resurrection  ?  None, 
but  faith  only.  For  if  the  resurrection  of  Christ, 
who  was  according  to  the  flesh,  is  known  by 
faith,  how  can  the  generation  of  the  Word  of 
God  be  comprehended  by  reasoning?  For  the 
resurrection  is  less  than  the  generation.  Why? 
Because  of  that  there  have  been  many  exam- 
ples, but  of  this  none  ever ;  for  many  dead 
arose  before  Christ,  though  after  their  resurrec- 
tion they  died,  but  no  one  was  ever  born  of  a 
virgin.  If  then  we  must  comprehend  by  faith 
that  which  is  inferior  to  the  generation  accord- 
ing to  the  flesh,  how  can  that  which  is  far 
greater,  immeasurably  and  incomparably  greater, 
be  comprehended  by  reason?  These  things 
make  the  righteousness;  this  must  we  believe 
that  He  was  able  to  do,  but  how  He  was  able 
we  cannot  prove.  For  from  faith  is  the  fellow- 
ship of  His  sufferings.  But  how  ?  Had  we  not 
believed,  neither  should  we  have  suffered :  had 
we  not  believed,  that  "  if  we  endure  with  Him, 
we  shall  also  reign  with  Him"  (2  Tim.  ii.  12), 
we  should  not  have  endured  the  sufferings.  Both 
the  generation  and  the  resurrection  is  compre- 
hended by  faith.  Seest  thou,  that  faith  must 
not  be  absolutely,  but  through  good  works;  for 
he  especially  believes  that  Christ  hath  risen,  who 
in  like  sort  gives  himself  up  to  dangers,  who 
hath  fellowship  with  Him  in  His  sufferings.  For 
he  hath  fellowship  with  Him  who  rose  again, 
with  Him  who  liveth  ;  wherefore  he  saith,  "  And 
may  be  found  in  Him,  not  having  a  righteous- 
ness of  mine  own,  even  that  which  is  of  the  law, 
but  that  which  is  through  faith  in  Christ,  the 
righteousness  which  is  of  God  by  faith :  that  I 
may  know  Him,  and  the  power  of  His  resurrec- 
tion, and  the  fellowship  of  His  sufferings,  be- 
coming conformed  unto  His  death ;  if  by  any 
means  I  may  attain  unto  the  resurrection  from 
the  dead."  He  saith,  being  made  conformable 
unto  His  death,  i.e.  having  fellowship ;  whereas 
He  suffered  from  men,  thus  I  too ;  wherefore 
he  said,  "  becoming  conformed  "  and  again  in 
another  place,  "and  fill  up  on  my  part  that 
which  is  lacking  of  the  afflictions  of  Christ  in 
my  flesh."  (Col.  i.  24.)  That  is,  these  persecu- 
tions and  sufferings  work  the  image  of  His  death, 
for  He  sought  not  His  own,  but  the  good  of 
many. 

Therefore  persecutions,  and  afflictions,  and 
straits,  ought  not  to  disturb  you,  but  ought  even 
to  make  you  glad,  because  through  them  we  are 
"conformed  to  His  death."  As  if  he  had  said, 
We  are  molded  to  His  likeness ;  as  he  says  in 

"having"  as  repeated  before  "that  which"  (comp.  Meyer).  Not 
seeing  this,  and  feeling  the  grammatical  difficulty  of  the  other  con- 
nection, Chrys.  quite  fancifully  joins  them  with  the  words  that  fol- 
low, and  proceeds  to  say  some  very  striking  things.  —  J.  A.  B.] 


another  place,  where  he  writeth,  "  bearing  about 
in  the  body  the  dying  of  the  Lord  Jesus." 
(2  Cor.  iv.  10.)  And  this  too  comes  from  great 
faith.  For  we  not  only  believe  that  He  arose, 
but  that  after  His  resurrection  also  He  hath 
great  power :  wherefore  we  travel  the  same  road 
which  He  travelled,  i.e.  we  become  brethren  to 
Him  in  this  respect  also.  As  if  he  had  said, 
We  become  Christs  in  this  respect  O  how  great 
is  the  dignity  of  sufferings  !  We  believe  that  we  be- 
come "  conformed  to  His  death  "  through  suffer- 
ings !  For  as  in  baptism,  we  were  "  buried  with  the 
likeness  of  His  death,"  so  here,  with  His  death. 
There  did  he  rightly  say,  "  The  likeness  of  His 
death"  (Rom.  vi.  4,  5),  for  there  we  died  not 
entirely,  we  died  not  in  the  flesh,  to  the  body, 
but  to  sin.  Since  then  a  death  is  spoken  of,  and 
a  death  ;  but  He  indeed  died  in  the  body,  whilst 
we  died  to  sin,  and  there  the  Man  died  which 
He  assumed,  who  was  in  our  flesh,  but  here  the 
man  of  sin ;  for  this  cause  he  saith,  "  the  like- 
ness of  His  death,"  but  here,  no  longer  the  like- 
ness of  His  death,  but  His  death  itself.  For 
Paul,  in  his  persecutions,  no  longer  died  to  sin, 
but  in *  his  very  body.  Wherefore,  he  endured 
the  same  death.  "  If  by  any  means,"  saith  he, 
"  I  may  attain  unto  the  resurrection  from  the 
dead."  What  sayest  thou  ?  All  men  will  have 
a  share  in  that.  "  For  we  shall  not  all  sleep,  but 
we  shall  all  be  changed"  (1  Cor.  xv.  51),  and 
shall  all  share  not  only  in  the  Resurrection,  but 
in  incorruption.  Some  indeed  to  honor,  but 
others  as  a  means  of  punishment.  If  therefore 
all  have  a  share  in  the  Resurrection,  and  not  in 
the  Resurrection  only,  but  also  in  incorruption, 
how  said  he,  "  If  by  any  means  I  may  attain," 
as  if  about  to  share  in  some  especial  thing? 
"  For  this  cause,"  saith  he,  "  I  endure  these 
things,  if  by  any  means  I  may  attain  unto  the 
resurrection  from  the  dead."  For  if  thou  hadst 
not  died,  thou  wouldest  not  arise.  What  is  it 
then?  Some  great  thing  seems  here  to  be 
hinted  at.  So  great  was  it,  that  he  dared  not 
openly  assert  it,  but  saith,  "  If  by  any  means." 
I  have  believed  in  Him  and  His  resurrection, 
nay,  moreover,  I  suffer  for  Him,  yet  I  am  unable 
to  be  confident  concerning  the  Resurrection. 
What  resurrection  doth  he  here  mention  ?  That 
which  leads  to  Christ  Himself.  I  said,  that  I 
believed  in  "  Him,  and  in  the  power  of  His  res- 
urrection," and  that  I  "  have  fellowship  with  His 
sufferings,"  and  that  I  "become  conformed  to 
His  death."  Yet  after  all  these  things  I  am  by 
no  means  confident ;  as  he  said  elsewhere,  "  Let 
him  that  thinketh  he  standeth,  take  heed  lest  he 
fall."  (1  Cor.  x.  12.)  And  again,  "I  fear  lest 
by  any  means,  after  that  I  have  preached  to* 
others,  I  myself  should  be  rejected."  (1  Cor. 
ix.  27.) 

1  or  to. 


Homily  XL] 


HOMILIES   ON   PHILIPPIANS. 


237 


Ver.  12.  "  Not  that  I  have  already  obtained, 
or  am  already  made  perfect :  but  I  press  on,  if 
so  be  that  I  may  apprehend  that  for  which  also 
I  was  apprehended  by  Christ  Jesus." 

"  Not  that  I  have  already  obtained."     What 
means  "  already  obtained  "  ?     He  speaks  of  the 
prize,  but  if  he  who  had  endured  such  sufferings, 
he  who  was  persecuted,  he  "  who  had  in  him  the 
dying  of  the  Lord  Jesus,"  was  not  yet  confident 
about  that  resurrection,  what  can  we  say  ?  What 
meaneth,  "if  I  may  apprehend"?     What  he 
before  said,  "  If  I  may  attain  to  the  resurrection 
of  the  dead."  (2  Cor.  iv.  10.)     If  I  may  appre- 
hend, he  saith,  His  resurrection ;  i.e.  if  I  may 
be  able  to  endure  so  great  things,  if  I  may  be 
able  to  imitate  Him,  if  I  may  be  able  to  become 
conformed  to  Him.     For  example,  Christ  suf- 
fered many  things,  He  was  spit  upon,  He  was 
stricken,  was  scourged,  at  last  He  suffered  what 
things  he  suffered.*    This  is  the  entire  course. 
Through  all  these  things  it  is  needful  that  men 
should  endure  the  whole  contest,  and  so  come 
to  His  resurrection.     Or  he  means  this,  if  I  am 
thought  worthy  to  attain  the  glorious  resurrec- 
tion, which  is  a  matter  of  confidence,  in  order 
to  His  resurrection.     For  if  I  am  able  to  endure 
all  the  contests,  I  shall  be  able  also  to  have  His 
resurrection,  and  to  rise  with  glory.     For  not  as 
yet,  saith  he,  am  I  worthy,  but  "  I  press  on,  if 
$0  be  that  I  may  apprehend."     My  life  is  still 
one  of  contest,  I  am  still  far  from  the  end,  I  am 
still  distant  from  the  prize,  still  I  run,  still  I  pur- 
sue.   And  He  said  not,  I  run,  but  "  I  pursue." 
For  you  know  with  what  eagerness  a  man  pur- 
sues.   He  sees  no  one,  he  thrusts  aside  with 
great  violence  all  who  would  interrupt  his  pur- 
suit   He  collects  together  his  mind,  and  sight, 
and  strength,  and  soul,  and  body,  looking  to 
nothing  else  than  the  prize.     But  if  Paul,  who 
so  pursued,  who  had  suffered  so  many  things, 
yet  saith, "  if  I  may  attain,"  what  should  we  say, 
who  have  relaxed  our  efforts?    Then  to  show 
that  the  thing  is  of  debt,  he  saith,  "  For  which 
also  I  was  apprehended  by  Christ  Jesus."     I 
was,  he  saith,  of  the  number  of  the  lost,  I  gasped 
for  breath,  I  was  nigh  dead,  God  apprehended 
me.    For  He  pursued  us,  when  we  fled  from 
Him,  with  all  speed.     So  that  he  points  out  all 
those  things ;   for  the  words,  "  I   was   appre- 
hended,"  show   the   earnestness   of  Him   who 
wishes  to  apprehend  us,  and  our  great  aversion 
to  Him,  our  wandering,  our  flight  from  Him. 

So  that  we  are  liable  for  a  vast  debt,  and  no 
°ne  grieves,  no  one  weeps,  no  one  groans,  all 
having  returned  to  their  former  state.  For  as 
Wore  the  appearance  of  Christ  we  fled  from 
God,  so  now  also.  For  we  can  flee  from  God, 
n°t  in  place,  for  He  is  everywhere ;  and  hear  the 


1  [ie.  the  well-known  sufferings,  the  Passion.  —  J.  A.  B.] 


Prophet,  when  he  says,  "  Whither  shall  I  go  from 
Thy  Spirit,  or  whither  shall  I  flee  from  Thy  pres- 
ence "  ?  (Ps.  exxxix.  7.)  How  then  can  we  flee 
from  God?  Even  as  we  can  become  distant 
from  God,  even  as  we  can  be  removed  afar  off. 
"They  that  are  far  from  Thee,"  it  says,  "  shall 
perish."  (Ps.  lxxiii.  27.)  And  again,  "Have  not 
your  iniquities  separated  between  Me  and  you?" 
(Isa.  lix.  2.)  How  then  comes  this  removal,  how 
comes  this  separation  ?  In  purpose  and  soul : 
for  it  cannot  be  in  place.  For  how  could  one 
fly  from  Him  who  is  everywhere  present?  The 
sinner  then  flies.  This  is  what  the  Scripture 
saith,  "  The  wicked  fleeth  when  no  man  pursueth 
him."  (Prov.  xxviii.  1.)  We  eagerly  fly  from 
God,  although  He  always  pursueth  us.  The 
Apostle  hasted,  that  he  might  be  near  Him.  We 
haste,  that  we  may  be  far  off. 

Are  not  these  things  then  worthy  of  lamenta- 
tion ?  Are  they  not  worthy  of  tears  ?  Whither 
fliest  thou,  wretched  and  miserable  man? 
Whither  fliest  thou  from  thy  Life  and  thy  Sal- 
vation? If  thou  fly  from  God,  with  whom  wilt 
thou  take  refuge?  If  thou  fly  from  the  Light, 
whither  wilt  thou  cast  thine  eyes  ?  If  thou  fly 
from  thy  Life,  whence  wilt  thou  henceforth  live  ? 
Let  us  fly  from  the  enemy  of  our  Salvation ! 
Whensoever  we  sin  we  fly  from  God,  we  are  as 
runaways,  we  depart  to  a  foreign  land,  as  he 
who  consumed  his  paternal  goods  and  departed 
into  a  foreign  land,  who  wasted  all  his  father's 
substance,  and  lived  in  want.  We  too  have 
substance  from  our  Father;  and  what  is  this? 
He  hath  freed  us  from  our  sins ;  He  hath  freely 
given  to  us  power,  strength  for  works  of  virtue ; 
He  hath  freely  given  to  us  readiness,  patience ; 
He  hath  freely  given  to  us  the  Holy  Ghost  in 
our  baptism ;  if  we  waste  these  things  we  shall 
henceforth  be  in  want.  For  as  the  sick,  as  long 
as  they  are  troubled  with  fevers,  and  badness  of 
their  juices,  are  unable  to  arise  or  work,  or  do 
anything,  but  if  any  one  sets  them  free,  and 
brings  them  to  health,  if  they  then  work  not, 
this  comes  from  their  own  sloth ;  thus  too  is  it 
with  us.  For  the  disease  was  heavy  and  the 
fever  excessive.  And  we  lay  not  upon  a  bed, 
but  upon  wickedness  itself,  cast  away  in  crime, 
as  on  a  dunghill,  full  of  sores,  and  evil  odors, 
squalid,  wasting  away,  more  like  ghosts  than 
men.  Evil  spirits  encompassed  us  about,  the 
Prince  of  this  world  deriding  and  assaulting  us ; 
the  Only-Begotten  Son  of  God  came,  sent  forth 
the  rays  of  His  Presence,  and  straightway  dis- 
pelled the  darkness.  The  King,  who  is  on  His 
Father's  throne,  came  to  us,  having  left  His 
Father's  throne.  And  when  I  say  having  left, 
think  not  of  any  removal,  for  He  filleth  the 
heavens  and  the  earth,  but  I  speak  of  the  econ- 
omy ;  He  came  to  an  enemy,  who  hated  Him, 
who  turned  himself  away,  who  could  not  endure 


238 


WORKS   OF   ST.   CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  XII. 


to  behold  Him,  who  blasphemed  Him  every 
day.  He  saw  him  lying  on  a  dunghill,  eaten 
with  worms,  afflicted  with  fever  and  hunger,  hav- 
ing every  sort  of  disease ;  for  both  fever  vexed 
him,  which  is  evil  desire  ;  and  inflammation  lay 
heavy  on  him,  this  is  pride ;  and  gnawing  hunger 
had  hold  of  him,  which  is  covetousness ;  and 
putrefying  sores  on  every  side,  for  this  is  forni- 
cation ;  and  blindness  of  eyes,  which  is  idolatry ; 
and  dumbness,  and  madness,  which  is  to  worship 
stocks  and  stones,  and  address  them  ;  and  great 
deformity,  for  wickedness  is  this,  foul  to  behold, 
and  a  most  heavy  disease.  And  he  saw  us 
speaking  more  foolishly  than  the  mad,  and  call- 
ing stocks  our  God,  and  stones  likewise ;  He 
saw  us  in  such  great  guilt,  he  did  not  reject  us ; 
was  not  wroth,  turned  not  away,  hated  us  not, 
for  He  was  a  Master,  and  could  not  hate  His 
own  creation.  But  what  does  he  do?  As  a 
most  excellent  physician,  He  prepareth  medi- 
cines of  great  price,  and  Himself  tastes  them 
first.  For  He  Himself  first  followed  after  vir- 
tue, and  thus  gave  it  to  us.  And  He  first  gave 
us  the  washing,1  like  some  antidote,  and  thus  we 
vomited  up  all  our  guilt,  and  all  things  took  their 
flight  at  once,  and  our  inflammation  ceased,  and 
our  fever  was  quenched,  and  our  sores  were 
dried  up.  For  all  the  evils  which  are  from  cove- 
tousness, and  anger,  and  all  the  rest,  were  dissi- 
pated by  the  Spirit.  Our  eyes  were  opened,  our 
ears  were  opened,  our  tongue  spake  holy  words  : 
our  soul  received  strength,  our  body  received 
such  beauty  and  bloom,  as  it  is  like  that  he  who 
is  born  a  son  of  God  should  have  from  the  grace 
of  the  Spirit ;  such  glory  as  it  is  like  that  the 
new-born  son  of  a  king  should  have,  nurtured  in 


purple.     Alas  !   How  great  nobility  did  He  con- 
fer on  us  ! 

We  were  born,  we  were  nurtured,  why  do  we 
again  fly  from  our  Benefactor?  He  then,  who 
hath  done  all  these  things,  giveth  us  strength 
too,  for  it  was  not  possible,  for  a  soul  bowed 
down  by  the  disease  to  endure  it,  did  not  He 
Himself  give  us  the  strength.  He  gave  us  re- 
mission of  our  sins.  We  devoured  all  things. 
He  gave  us  strength,  we  wasted  it.  He  gave  us 
grace,  we  quenched  it;  and  how?  we  consumed 
it  upon  nought  that  was  fitting,  we  used  it  for 
no  useful  end.  These  things  have  destroyed  us, 
and  what  is  more  dreadful  than  all,  when  we  are 
in  a  foreign  country,  and  feeding  on  husks,  we 
say  not,  Let  us  return  to  our  Father,  and  say, 
"  We  have  sinned  against  Heaven,  and  against 
Thee."  (Luke  xv.  18.)  And  that  too,  when 
we  have  so  loving  a  Father,  who  eagerly  desires 
our  return.  If  we  will  only  return  to  Him,  He 
does  not  even  bear  to  call  in  question  our  former 
deeds,  only  let  us  quit  them.  It  is  sufficient 
apology  with  Him,  that  we  have  returned.  Not 
only  He  Himself  calls  not  in  question,  but  if 
another  does  so,  He  stops  his  mouth,  though 
the  accuser  be  one  of  good  repute.  Let  us 
return  !  How  long  do  we  stand  afar  off?  Let 
us  perceive  our  dishonor,  let  us  be  sensible  of 
our  vileness.  Sin  makes  us  swine,  sin  brings 
famine  to  the  soul ;  let  us  regain  ourselves,  and 
be  sober  again,  and  return  to  our  former  high 
birth,  that  we  may  obtain  the  good  things  which 
are  to  come,  in  Christ  Jesus  our  Lord,  with 
whom  to  the  Father  together  with  the  Holy 
Spirit  be  glory,  might,  honor,  now  and  ever  and., 
world  without  end. 


HOMILY   XII. 

Phiuppians  iii.  13,  14. 


"  Brethren,  I  count  not  myself  yet  to  have  apprehended : 
but  one  thing  I  do,  forgetting  the  things  which  are 
behind,  and  stretching  forward  to  the  things  which 
are  before,  I  press  on  toward  the  goal  unto  the  prize 
of  the  high  calling  of  God  in  Christ  Jesus." 

Nothing  so  renders  our  real  excellences  vain 
and  puffs  them  away,  as  to  be  remembering  the 
good  deeds  we  have  done ;  for  this  produces 
two  evils,  it  both  renders  us  remiss,  and  raises 
us  to  haughtiness.  Wherefore  see  how  Paul, 
since  he  knew  our  nature  to  be  easily  inclined  to 
remissness,  though  he  had  given  great  praise  to 

*  [Or  "  bath,"   "  laver."    He  refers  to  Tit.  iii.  5.  —J.  A.  B.] 


the  Philippians,  now  subdues  their  mind 
many  other  things  above,  but  chiefly  by  h 
present  words.  And  what  are  they  ?  "  Brethre 
I  count  not  myself*  to  have  apprehended."  B 
if  Paul  had  not  as  yet  apprehended,  and  is  n 
confident  about  the  Resurrection  and  things 
come,  hardly  should  they  be  so,  who  have  n 
attained  the  smallest  proportion  of  his  exc 
lence.     That  is,  I  consider  that  I  have  not 


*  [Nearly  all  documents  of  Chiys.  here  read  simply  "  not, 
Textus  Receptus.    Yet  the  connection  following  seems  to  show 
Chrys.  really  read  "  not  yet,"  as  in  the  Rev.  Ens.  Bible.    T 
copyists  made  the  quotation  conform  to  the  text  of  Scripture 
which  they  were  familiar,  but  left  the  comment  unaltered,  — a 
quent  occurrence  in  the  Fathers.— J.  A.  B.] 


Homily  XII.] 


HOMILIES   ON    PHILIPPIANS. 


239 


yet  apprehended  all  virtue,  as  if  one  were  speak- 
ing of  a  runner.     Not  as  yet,  saith  he,  have  I 
completed    all.     And  if  in  another   place   he 
saith,  "I  have  fought  the  good  fight"  (2  Tim. 
iv.  7),  but  here,  "  I  count  myself  not  as  yet  to 
have  apprehended  " ;  any  one  who  reads  care- 
fully will  well  know  the  reason  both  of  those, 
and  of  the  present  words ;  (for  it  is  not  neces- 
sary to  dwell  continually  on  the  same  point ;) 
and  that  he  spoke  these  words  at  a  much  earlier 
date,  but  the  others  near  his  death.     But  I  am 
solely  engaged    on  "  one   thing,"  says   he,  "  in 
stretching    forward    to    the    things    which    are 
before."     But  "  one  thing,"  says  he,  "  forgetting 
the  things  which  are  behind,  and  stretching  for- 
ward to  the  things  which  are  before,  I  press  on 
toward  the  goal  unto  the  prize  of  the  high  calling 
of  God  in  Christ  Jesus."     For  what  made  him 
reach  forward  unto  the  things  which  are  before, 
was  his  forgetting  the  things  that  are  behind. 
He  then,  who  thinks  that  all  is  accomplished, 
and  that  nothing  is  wanting  to  him  for  the  per- 
fecting of  virtue,  may  cease  running,  as  having 
apprehended  all.     But  he  who  thinks  that  he  is 
still  distant  from  the  goal,  will  never  cease  run- 
ning. This  then  we  should  always  consider,  even 
though,  we   have  wrought  ten  thousand  good 
deeds;  for  if  Paul,  after  ten  thousand  deaths, 
after  so  many  dangers,   considered   this,   how 
much  more  should  we  ?    For  I  fainted  not,  saith 
ne,  although   I   availed  not,  after  running  so 
much ;  nor  did  I  despair,  but  I  still  run,  I  still 
strive.    This  thing  only  I  consider,  that  I  may  in 
fruth  advance.     Thus  too  we   should   act,  we 
should  forget   our  successes,  and   throw  them 
behind  us.     For  the  runner  reckons  not  up  how 
^any  circuits  he  hath  finished,  but  how  many 
**e  left.    We  too  should  reckon  up,  not  how  far 
^"^  are  advanced  in  virtue,  but  how  much  remains 
****■  us.     For  what  doth  that  which  is  finished 
^•"^fit  us,  when  that  which  is  deficient  is  not 
^"Ided?    Moreover  he  did  not  say,  I  do  not 
[^c:kon  up,  but  I  do  not  even  remember.     For 
thus  become  eager,  when  we  apply  all  dili- 
lce  to  what  is  left,  when  we  give  to  oblivion 
~^*~erything  else.   "  Stretching  forward,"  saith  he  ; 
'fore  we  arrive,  we  strive  to  obtain.     For  he 
i-at  stretches  forward  is  one  who,  though  his  feet 
running,  endeavors  to  outstrip  them  with  the 
it  of  his  body,  stretching  himself  towards  the 
"Ont,  and  reaching  out  his  hands,  that  he  may 
-complish  somewhat  more  of  the  course.     And 
is  comes  from  great  eagerness,  from  much 
^^^rrath ;  thus  the  runner  should  run  with  great 
^^rnestness,  with  so  great  eagerness,  without  re- 
~~^*ation.    As  far  as  one  who  so  runs  differs  from 
"ixn  who  lies  supine,  so  far  doth  Paul  differ  from 
'tls'   He  died  daily,  he  was  approved  daily,  there 
^as  no  season,  there  was  no  time  in  which  his 
course  advanced  not.    He  wished  not  to  take, 


but  to  snatch  the  prize ;  for  in  this  way  we  may 
take  it.  He  who  giveth  the  prize  standeth  on 
high,  the  prize  is  laid  up  on  high. 

See  how  great  a  distance  this  is  that  must  be 
run  over  !  See  how  great  an  ascent !  Thither  we 
must  fly  up  with  the  wings  of  the  Spirit,  other- 
wise it  is  impossible  to  surmount  this  height. 
Thither  must  we  go  with  the  body,  for  it  is 
allowed.  "  For  our  citizenship  is  in  heaven  " 
(Phil.  iii.  20),  there  is  the  prize ;  seest  thou  the 
runners,  how  they  live  by  rule,  how  they  touch 
nothing  that  relaxes  their  strength,  how  they 
exercise  themselves  every  day  in  the  palaestra, 
under  a  master,  and  by  rule  ?  Imitate  them,  or 
rather  exhibit  even  greater  eagerness,  for  the 
prizes  are  not  equal :  many  are  those  who  would 
hinder  you ;  live  by  rule :  many  are  the  things 
which  relax  your  strength ;  make  its  feet  *  agile  : 
for  it  is  possible  so  to  do,  it  comes  not  naturally, 
but  by  our  will.  Let  us  bring  it  to  lightness,  lest 
our  swiftness  of  foot  be  hindered  by  the  weight 
of  other  things.  Teach  thy  feet  to  be  sure,  for 
there  are  many  slippery  places,  and  if  thou  fallest, 
straightway  thou  losest  much.  But  yet  if  thou 
fall,  rise  up  again.  Even  thus  mayst  thou  obtain 
the  victory.  Never  attempt  slippery  things,  and 
thou  wilt  not  fall ;  walk  upon  firm  ground,  up 
with  thy  head,  up  with  thine  eyes ;  these  com- 
mands the  trainers  give  to  those  who  run.  Thus 
thy  strength  is  supported ;  but  if  thou  stoopest 
downward,  thou  fallest,  thou  art  relaxed.  Look 
upward,  where  the  prize  is  ;  the  sight  of  the  prize 
increaseth  the  determination  of  our  will.  The 
hope  of  taking  it  sufifereth  not  to  perceive  the 
toils,  it  maketh  the  distance  appear  short.  And 
what  is  this  prize  ?  No  palm  branch  ;  but  what  ? 
The  kingdom  of  heaven,  everlasting  rest,  glory 
together  with  Christ,  the  inheritance,  brother- 
hood, ten  thousand  good  things,  which  it  is 
impossible  to  name.  It  is  impossible  to  de- 
scribe the  beauty  of  that  prize ;  he  who  hath  it 
alone  knoweth  it,  and  he  who  is  about  to  re- 
ceive it.  It  is  not  of  gold,  it  is  not  set  with 
jewels,  it  is  far  more  precious.  Gold  is  mire, 
in  comparison  with  that  prize,  precious  stones 
are  mere  bricks  in  comparison  with  its  beauty. 
If  thou  hast  this,  and  takest  thy  departure  to 
heaven,  thou  wilt  be  able  to  walk  there  with 
great  honor;  the  angels  will  reverence  thee, 
when  thou  bearest  this  prize,  with  much  confi- 
dence wilt  thou  approach  them  all.  "  In  Christ 
Jesus."  See  the  humility  of  his  mind ;  this  I 
do,  saith  he,  "  in  Christ  Jesus,"  for  it  is  impossi- 
ble without  an  impulse  from  Him  to  pass  over 
so  vast  an  interval :  we  have  need  of  much  aid, 
of  a  mighty  alliance  ;  He  hath  willed  that  thou 
shouldest  struggle  below,  on  high  He  crowns 
thee.     Not  as  in  this  world ;  the  crown  is  not 


1  [i.e.  the  feet  of  your  strength.  — J.  A.  B.] 


240 


WORKS   OF   ST.    CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  XII. 


here,  where  the  contest  is ;  but  the  crown  is  in 
that  bright  place.  See  ye  not,  even  here,  that 
the  most  honored  of  the  wrestlers  and  charioteers 
are  not  crowned  in  the  course  below,  but  the 
king  calls  them  up,  and  crowns  them  there? 
Thus  too  is  it  here,  in  heaven  thou  receivest  the 
prize. 

Ver.  15.  "Let  us,  therefore,  as  many  as  be 
perfect,  be  thus  minded,"  saith  he.  "  And  if  in 
anything  ye  are  otherwise  minded,  even  this 
shall  God  reveal  unto  you."  What  sort  of  thing  ? 
That  we  should  "forget  the  things  which  are 
behind."  Wherefore  it  belongs  to  him  who  is 
perfect  not  to  consider  himself  perfect.  How 
therefore  sayest  thou,  "  as  many  as  are  perfect"  ? 
For  tell  me,  are  we  minded  as  thou  art  ?  For  if 
thou  hast  not  attained  nor  art  perfected,  how 
dost  thou  command  those  that  are  perfect  to  be 
so  minded  as  thou  art,  who  art  not  yet  perfect  ? 
Yea,  for  this,  saith  he,  is  perfection.  And  "  if 
ye  are  in  anything  otherwise  minded,  even  this 
shall  God  reveal  unto  you."  That  is,  if  any  one 
considers  that  he  has  attained  all  excellence. 
He  puts  them  on  their  guard,  not  by  speaking 
directly,  but  what  saith  he?  "  If  in  anything  ye 
are  otherwise  minded,  even  this  shall  God  reveal 
unto  you."  See  how  humbly  he  saith  this  !  God 
shall  teach  you,  i.e.  God  shall  persuade  you,1 
not  teach  you ;  for  Paul  was  teaching,  but  God 
shall  lead  them  on.  And  he  said  not,  shall  lead 
you  on,  but  "  shall  reveal,"  that  this  may  rather 
seem  to  spring  from  ignorance.  These  words 
were  spoken  not  concerning  doctrines,  but  con- 
cerning perfection  of  life,  and  our  not  consider- 
ing ourselves  to  be  perfect,  for  he  who  considers 
that  he  hath  apprehended  all,  hath  nothing. 

Ver.  16.  "Only,  whereunto  we  have  already 
attained,  by  that  same  rule  let  us  walk,  let  us 
mind  the  same  thing." 

"  Only,  whereunto  we  have  attained."  What 
means  this?  Let  us  hold  fast,  he  saith,  that 
in  which  we  have  succeeded ;  love,  concord, 
and  peace :  for  in  this  we  have  succeeded.2 
"  Whereto  we  have  attained :  to  walk  by  the 
same  rule,  to  mind  the  same  thing."  "  Where- 
unto we  have  attained,"  i.e.  in  this  we  have 
already  succeeded.  Seest  thou,  that  he  wills 
that  his  precepts  should  be  a  rule  to  us  ?  And 
a  rule  admits  neither  addition,  nor  subtraction, 
since  that  destroys  its  being  a  rule.  "By  the 
same  rule,"  i.e.  by  the  same  faith,  within  the 
same  limits. 

Ver.  17.  "Brethren,  be  ye  imitators  of  me, 
and  mark  them  which  so  walk  even  as  ye  have 
us  for  an  ensample." 

He  had  said  above,  "  beware  of  dogs,"  from 
such  he  had  led  them  away ;  he  brings  them 


&c. 


1  i.e.  succeed  in  persuading. 

3  He  applies  this  to  walking  by  the  same  rule  "  with  each  other," 


near  to  these  whom  they  ought  to  imitate.  If 
any  one,  saith  he,  wishes  to  imitate  me,  if  any 
one  wishes  to  walk  the  same  road,  let  him  take 
heed  to  them ;  though  I  am  not  present,  ye 
know  the  manner  of  my  walk,  that  is,  my  con- 
duct in  life.  For  not  by  words  only  did  he 
teach,  but  by  deeds  too ;  as  in  the  chorus,  and 
the  army,  the  rest  must  imitate  the  leader  of  the 
chorus  or  the  army,  and  thus  advance  in  good 
order.  For  it  is  possible  that  the  order  may  be 
dissolved  by  sedition. 

The  Apostles  therefore  were  a  type,  and  kept 
throughout  a  certain  archetypal  model.  Con- 
sider how  entirely  accurate  their  life  was,  so  that 
they  are  proposed  as  an  archetype  and  example, 
and  as  living  laws.  For  what  was  said  in  their 
writings,  they  manifested  to  all  in  their  actions. 
This  is  the  best  teaching ;  thus  he  will  be  able 
to  carry  on  his  disciple.  But  if  he  indeed 
speaks  as  a  philosopher,  yet  in  his  actions  doth 
the  contrary,  he  is  no  longer  a  teacher.  For 
mere  verbal  philosophy  is  easy  even  for  the 
disciple :  but  there  is  need  of  that  teaching 
and  leading  which  comes  of  deeds.  For  this 
both  makes  the  teacher  to  be  reverenced,  and 
prepares  the  disciple  to  yield  obedience.  How 
so  ?  When  one  sees  him  delivering  philosophy 
in  words,  he  will  say  he  commands  impossibili- 
ties ;  that  they  are  impossibilities,  he  himself  is 
the  first  to  show,  who  does  not  practice  them. 
But  if  he  sees  his  virtue  fully  carried  out  in 
action,  he  will  no  longer  be  able  to  speak  thus. 
Yet  although  the  life  of  our  teacher  be  careless, 
let  us  take  heed  to  ourselves,  and  let  us  listen  to 
the  words  of  the  prophet ;  "  They  shall  be  all 
taught  of  God."  (Isa.  liv.  13.)  "  And  they  shall 
teach  no  more  every  man  his  brother,  saying, 
Know  the  Lord,  for  they  shall  all  know  me  from 
the  least  of  them  to  the  greatest  of  them."  (Jer. 
xxxi.  34.)  Hast  thou  a  teacher  who  is  not  virtu- 
ous ?  Still  thou  hast  Him  who  is  truly  a  Teacher, 
whom  alone  thou  shouldest  call  a  Teacher. 
Learn  from  Him  :  He  hath  said,  "  Learn  of  Me, 
for  I  am  meek."  (Matt.  xi.  29.)  Take  not  heed, 
then,  to  thy  teacher,  but  to  Him  and  to  His  les- 
sons. Take  thence  thy  examples,  thou  hast  a 
most  excellent  model,  to  it  conform  thyself. 
There  are  innumerable  models  laid  before  thee 
in  the  Scriptures  of  virtuous  lives ;  whichsoever 
thou  wilt,  come,  and  after  the  Master  find  it  in 
the  disciples.  One  hath  shown  forth  through 
poverty,  another  through  riches ;  for  example, 
Elijah  through  poverty,  Abraham  through  riches. 
Go  to  that  example,  which  thou  esteemest  most 
easy,  most  befitting  thyself  to  practice.  Again, 
one  by  marriage,  the  other  by  virginity ;  Abra- 
ham by  marriage,  the  other  by  virginity.  Follow 
whichever  thou  wilt :  for  both  lead  to  heaven. 
One  shone  forth  by  fasting,  as  John,  another 
without  fasting,  as  Job.     Again,  this  latter  had  a 


Homily  XII.] 


HOMILIES   ON   PHILIPPIANS. 


241 


care  for  his  wife,  his  children,  his  daughters,  his 
family,  and  possessed  great  wealth;  the  other 
possessed  nothing  but  the  garment  of  hair.  And 
why  do  I  make  mention  of  family,  or  wealth,  or 
money,  when  it  is  possible  that  even  one  in  a 
kingdom  should  lay  hold  on  virtue,  for  the  house 
of  a  king  would  be  found  more  full  of  trouble 
than  any  private  family.  David  then  shone 
forth  in  his  kingdom ;  the  purple  and  the  dia- 
dem rendered  him  not  at  all  remiss.  To  another 
it  was  entrusted  to  preside  over  a  whole  people, 
I  mean  Moses,  which  was  a  more  difficult  task, 
for  there  the  power  was  greater,  whence  the 
difficulty  too  became  greater.  Thou  hast  seen 
men  approved  in  wealth,  thou  hast  seen  them  in 
poverty  also,  thou  hast  seen  them  in  marriage, 
thou  hast  seen  them  in  virginity  too ;  on  the 
contrary,  behold  some  lost  in  marriage  and  in 
virginity,  in  wealth  and  in  poverty.  For  example, 
many  men  have  perished  in  marriage,  as  Sam- 
son,1 yet  not  from  marriage,  but  from  their  own 
deliberate  choice.  Likewise  in  virginity,  as  the 
five  virgins.  In  wealth,  as  the  rich  man,  who 
disregarded  Lazarus :  in  poverty,  innumerable 
poor  men  even  now  are  lost.  In  a  kingdom,  I 
can  point  to  many  who  have  perished,  and  in 
ruling  the  people.  Wouldest  thou  see  men  saved 
in  the  rank  of  a  soldier?  there  is  Cornelius ;  and 
in  the  government  of  a  household  ?  there  is  the 
eunuch  of  the  Ethiopian  Queen.  Thus  is  it 
universally.  If  we  use  our  wealth  as  is  fit,  noth- 
ing will  destroy  us ;  but  if  not,  all  things  will 
destroy  us,  whether  a  kingdom,  or  poverty,  or 
wealth.  But  nothing  will  have  power  to  hurt 
the  man,  who  keeps  well  awake. 

For  tell  me,  was  captivity  any  harm  ?  None 
at  all.  For  consider,  I  pray  thee,  Joseph,  who 
became  a  slave,  and  preserved  his  virtue.  Con- 
sider Daniel,  and  the  Three  Children,  who  be- 
came captives,  and  how  much  the  more  they 
shone  forth,  for  virtue  shineth  everywhere,  is 
invincible,  and  nothing  can  put  hindrances  in 
its  way.  But  why  make  I  mention  of  poverty, 
and  captivity,  and  slavery;  and  hunger,  and 
sores,  and  grievous  disease?  For  disease  is 
more  hard  to  endure  than  slavery.  Such  was 
Lazarus,  such  was  Job,  such  was  also  Timothy, 
straitened  by  "  often  infirmities."  (1  Tim.  v.  23.) 
Thou  seest  that  nothing  can  obtain  the  mastery 
over  virtue ;  neither  wealth,  nor  poverty,  nor 
dominion,  nor  subjection,  nor  the  preeminence 
in  affairs,  nor  disease,  nor  contempt,  nor  aban- 
donment. But  having  left  all  these  things  below, 
and  upon  the  earth,  it  hastens  towards  Heaven. 
Only  let  the  soul  be  noble,  and  nought  can  hin- 
der it  from  being  virtuous.     For  when  he  who 


-  *  So  on  Ps.  it.  (13).  Some  other  Fathers  speak  more  gently  of 
£— ■"»  as  St.  Augustine,  contr.  Gaud.  1.  40,  and  Ser.  364,  where, 
***"«,  he  says  that  if  Samson  was  righteous,  his  righteousness  is 
■VF  hidden. 


works  is  in  vigor,  nothing  external  can  hinder 
him ;  for  as  in  the  arts,  when  the  artificer  is 
experienced  and  persevering,  and  thoroughly 
acquainted  with  his  art,  if  disease  overtakes  him, 
he  still  hath  it ;  if  he  became  poor,  he  still  hath 
it ;  whether  he  hath  his  tools  in  his  hand  or  hath 
them  not,  whether  he  works  or  worketh  not,  he 
loseth  not  at  all  his  art :  for  the  science  of  it  is 
contained  within  him.  Thus  too  the  virtuous 
man,  who  is  devoted  to  God,  manifests  his  art, 
if  you  cast  him  into  wealth,  or  if  into  poverty, 
if  into  disease,  if  into  health,  if  into  dishonor,  if 
into  great  honor.  Did  not  the  Apostles  work  in 
every  state,  "By  glory  and  dishonor,  by  good 
report  and  evil  report"?  (2  Cor.  vi.  8.)  This 
is  an  athlete,  to  be  prepared  for  everything ;  for 
such  is  also  the  nature  of  virtue. 

If  thou  sayest,  I  am  not  able  to  preside  over 
many,  I  ought  to  lead  a  solitary  life  ;  thou  offer- 
est  an  insult  to  virtue,  for  it  can  make  use  of 
every  state,  and  shine  through  all :  only  let  it 
be  in  the  soul.  Is  there  a  famine?  or  is  there 
abundance?  It  shows  forth  its  own  strength,  as 
Paul  saith,  "  I  know  how  to  abound,  and  how  to 
be  in  want."  (Phil.  iv.  12  ;  Acts  xxviii.  30.) 
Was  he  required  to  work  ?  He  was  not  ashamed, 
but  wrought  two  years.  Was  hunger  to  be 
undergone?  He  sank  not  under  it,  nor  wavered. 
Was  death  to  be  borne  ?  He  became  not  de- 
jected, through  all  he  exhibited  his  noble  mind 
and  art.  Him  therefore  let  us  imitate,  and  we 
shall  have  no  cause  of  grief:  for  tell  me,  what 
will  have  power  to  grieve  such  an  one  ?  Nothing. 
As  long  as  no  one  deprives  us  of  this  art,  this 
will  be  the  most  blessed  of  all  men,  even  in  this 
life  as  well  as  in  that  to  come.  For  suppose  the 
good  man  hath  a  wife  and  children,  and  riches, 
and  great  honor,  with  all  these  things  he  remain- 
eth  alike  virtuous.  Take  them  away,  and  again 
in  like  sort  he  will  be  virtuous,  neither  over- 
whelmed by  his  misfortunes,  nor  puffed  up  by 
prosperity,  but  as  a  rock  standeth  equally  un- 
moved in  the  raging  sea  and  in  calm,  neither 
broken  by  the  waves  nor  influenced  at  all  by  the 
calm,  thus  too  the  solid  mind  stands  firm  both 
in  calm  and  in  storm.  And  as  little  children, 
when  sailing  in  a  ship,  are  tossed  about,  whilst 
the  pilot  sits  by,  laughing  and  undisturbed,  and 
delighted  to  see  their  confusion ;  thus  too  the 
soul  which  is  truly  wise,  when  all  others  are  in 
confusion,  or  else  are  inopportunely  smiling  at 
any  change  of  circumstance,  sits  unmoved,  as  it 
were,  at  the  tiller  and  helm  of  piety.  For  tell 
me,  what  can  disturb  the  pious  soul?  Can 
death?  This  is  the  beginning  of  a  better  life. 
Can  poverty?  This  helps  her  on  toward  virtue. 
Can  disease?  She  regards  not  its  presence. 
She  regards  neither  ease,  nor  affliction  ;  for  be- 
ing beforehand  with  it,  she  hath  afflicted  her- 
self.    Can  dishonor?     The  world  hath  been 


242 


WORKS   OF   ST.    CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  XIII. 


crucified  to  her.  Can  the  loss  of  children? 
She  fears  it  not,  when  she  is  fully  persuaded  of 
the  Resurrection.  What  then  can  surprise  her? 
None  of  all  these  things.  Doth  wealth  elevate 
her?  By  no  means,  she  knoweth  that  money  is 
nothing.  Doth  glory?  She  hath  been  taught 
that  "  all  the  glory  of  man  is  as  the  flower  of 
grass."  (Isa.  xl.  6.)  Doth  luxury?  She  hath 
heard  Paul  say,  "She  that  giveth  herself  to 
pleasure  is  dead  while  she  liveth."  (1  Tim.  v.  6.) 
Since  then  she  is  neither  inflamed  nor  cramped, 
what  can  equal  such  health  as  this  ? 

Other  souls,  meanwhile,  are  not  such,  but 
change  more  frequently  than  the  sea,  or  the 
cameleon,  so  that  thou  hast  great  cause  to  smile, 
when  thou  seest  the  same  man  at  one  time 
laughing,  at  another  weeping,  at  one  time  full  of 
care,  at  another  beyond  measure  relaxed  and 
languid.  For  this  cause  Paul  saith,  "  Be  not 
fashioned  according  to  this  world."     (Rom.  xii. 


2.)  For  we  are  citizens  of  heaven,  where  there 
is  no  turning.  Prizes  which  change  not  are  held 
out  to  us.  Let  us  make  manifest  this  our  citi- 
zenship, let  us  thence  already  receive  our  good 
things.  But  why  do  we  cast  ourselves  into  the 
Euripus,  into  tempest,  into  storm,  into  foam? 
Let  us  be  in  calm.  It  all  depends  not  on 
wealth,,  nor  on  poverty,  nor  honor,  nor  dishonor, 
nor  on  sickness,  nor  on  health,  nor  on  weakness, 
but  on  our  own  soul.  If  it  is  solid,  and  well- 
instructed  in  the  science  of  virtue,  all  things 
will  be  easy  to  it.  Even  hence  it  will  already 
behold  its  rest,  and  that  quiet  harbor,  and,  on  its 
departure,  will  there  attain  innumerable  good 
things,  the  which  may  we  all  attain,  by  the  grace 
and  love  of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  with  whom, 
to  the  Father,  together  with  the  Holy  Spirit,  be 
glory,  dominion,  honor,  now  and  ever,  and  world 
without  end.     Amen. 


HOMILY   XIII. 


Philippians  iii.  18-21. 


« 


For  many  walk,  of  whom  I  told  you  often,  and  now  tell 
you  even  weeping,  that  they  are  the  enemies  of  the 
cross  of  Christ :  whose  end  is  perdition,  whose  god 
is  the  belly,  and  whose  glory  is  in  their  shame,  who 
mind  earthly  things.  For  our  citizenship  is  in 
heaven;  from  whence  also  we  wait  for  a  Saviour, 
the  Lord  Jesus  Christ :  who  shall  fashion  anew  the 
body  of  our  humiliation,  that  it  may  be  conformed 
to  the  body  of  his  glory,  according  to  the  working 
whereby  He  is  able  even  to  subject  all  things  unto 
Himself." 


Nothing  is  so  incongruous  in  a  Christian,  and 
foreign  to  his  character,  as  to  seek  ease  and  rest ; 
and  to  be  engrossed  with  the  present  life  is  for- 
eign to  our  profession  and  enlistment.  Thy 
Master  was  crucified,  and  dost  thou  seek  ease? 
Thy  Master  was  pierced  with  nails,  and  dost 
thou  live  delicately?  Do  these  things  become 
a  noble  soldier?  Wherefore  Paul  saith,  "Many 
walk,  of  whom  I  told  you  often,  and  now  tell 
you  even  weeping,  that  they  are  the  enemies  of 
the  cross  of  Christ."  Since  there  were  some 
who  made  a  pretense  of  Christianity,  yet  lived 
in  ease  and  luxury,  and  this  is  contrary  to  the 
Cross  :  therefore  he  thus  spoke.  For  the  cross 
belongs  to  a  soul  at  its  post  for  the  fight,  longing 
to  die,  seeking  nothing  like  ease,  whilst  their 
conduct  is  of  the  contrary  sort.  So  that  even 
if  they  say,  they  are  Christ's,  still  they  are  as  it 
were  enemies  of  the  Cross.  For  did  they  love 
the  Cross,  they  would  strive  to  live  the  crucified 
life.     Was  not  thy  Master  hung  upon  the  tree  ? 


Do  thou  otherwise  imitate  Him.  Crucify  thy- 
self, though  no  one  crucify  thee.  Crucify  thy- 
self, not  that  thou  mayest  slay  thyself,  God 
forbid,  for  that  is  a  wicked  thing,  but  as  Paul 
said,  "The  world  hath  been  crucified  unto  me 
and  I  unto  the  world."  (Gal.  vi.  14.)  If  thou 
lovest  thy  Master,  die  His  death.  Learn  how 
great  is  the  power  of  the  Cross ;  how  many  good 
things  it  hath  achieved,  and  doth  still :  how  it  is 
the  safety  of  our  life.  Through  it  all  things  are 
done.  Baptism  is  through  the  Cross,  for  we 
must  receive  that  seal.  The  laying  on  of  hands 
is  through  the  Cross.  If  we  are  on  journeys,  if 
we  are  at  home,  wherever  we  are,  the  Cross  is  a 
great  good,  the  armor  of  salvation,  a  shield  which 
cannot  be  beaten  down,  a  weapon  to  oppose  the 
devil ;  thou  bearest  the  Cross  when  thou  art  at 
enmity  with  him,  not  simply  when  thou  sealest 
thyself  by  it,  but  when  thou  sufferest  the  things 
belonging  to  the  Cross.  Christ  thought  fit  to 
call  our  sufferings  by  the  name  of  the  Cross. 
As  when  he  saith,  "Except  a  man  take  up  his 
cross  and  follow  Me"  (Matt.  xvi.  24),  i.e.  except 
he  be  prepared  to  die. 

But  these  being  base,  and  lovers  of  life,  and 
lovers  of  their  bodies,  are  enemies  of  the  Cross. 
And  every  one,  who  is  a  friend  of  luxury,  and  of 
present  safety,  is  an  enemy  of  that  Cross  in 
which  Paul  makes  his  boast :  which  he  embraces, 
with  which  he  desires  to  be  incorporated.  As 
when  he  saith,  "  I  am  crucified  unto  the  world, 


Homily  XIIL] 


HOMILIES   ON   PHILIPPIANS. 


243 


and  the  world  unto  me."  But  here  he  saith,  "  I 
now  tell  you  weeping."  Wherefore?  Because 
the  evil  was  urgent,  because  such  deserve  tears. 
Of  a  truth  the  luxurious  are  worthy  of  tears,  who 
make  fat  that  which  is  thrown  about  them,  I 
mean  the  body,  and  take  no  thought  of  that  soul 
which  must  give  account.  Behold  thou  livest 
delicately,  behold  thou  art  drunken,  to-day  and 
to-morrow,  ten  years,  twenty,  thirty,  fifty,  a  hun- 
dred, which  is  impossible ;  but  if  thou  wilt,  let 
us  suppose  it.  What  is  the  end  ?  What  is  the 
gain?  •  Nought  at  all.  Doth  it  not  then  deserve 
tears,  and  lamentations,  to  lead  such  a  life  ;  God 
hath  brought  us  into  this  course,  that  He  may 
crown  us,  and  we  take  our  departure  without 
doing  any  noble  action.  Wherefore  Paul  weep- 
eth,  where  others  laugh,  and  live  in  pleasure. 
So  sympathetic  is  he  :  such  thought  taketh  he  for 
all  men.  "Whose  god,"  saith  he,  "is  the  belly." 
For  this  have  they  a  God  ! l  That  is,  "  let  us 
eat  and  drink  !  "  Dost  thou  see,  how  great  an 
evil  luxury  is?  to  some  their  wealth,  and  to 
others  their  belly  is  a  god.  Are  not  these  too 
idolaters,  and  worse  than  the  common?  And 
their  "glory  is  in  their  shame."  (1  Cor.  xv.  32.) 
Some  say  it  is  circumcision.  I  think  not  so,  but 
this  is  its  meaning,  they  make  a  boast  of  those 
things,  of  which  they  ought  to  be  ashamed.  It 
is  a  fearful  thing  to  do  shameful  actions ;  yet  to 
do  them,  and  be  ashamed,  is  only  half  so  dread- 
ful But  where  a  man  even  boasts  himself  of 
them,  it  is  excessive  senselessness. 

Do  these  words  apply  to  them  alone  ?  And  do 
those  who  are  here  present  escape  the  charge  ? 
And  will  no  one  have  account  to  render  of  these 
things?  Does  no  one  make  a  god  of  his  belly, 
or  glory  in  his  shame  ?  I  wish,  earnestly  I  wish, 
that  none  of  these  charges  lay  against  us,  and 
that  I  did  not  know  any  one  involved  in  what  I 
have  said.  But  I  fear  lest  the  words  have  more 
reference  to  us  than  to  the  men  of  those  times. 
For  when  one  consumes  his  whole  life  in  drinking 
and  reveling,  and  expends  some  small  trifle  on 
the  poor,  whilst  he  consumes  the  larger  portion 
on  his  belly,  will  not  these  words  with  justice 
apply  to  him  ?  No  words  are  more  apt  to  call 
attention,  or  more  cutting  in  reproof,  than  these  : 
"Whose  god  is  the  belly,  whose  glory  is  in  their 
shame."  And  who  are  these?  They,  he  says, 
who  mind  earthly  things.  "  Let  us  build  houses." 
Where,  I  ask?  On  the  earth,  they  answer.  Let 
us  purchase  farms ;  on  the  earth  again :  let  us 
obtain  power ;  again  on  the  earth :  let  us  gain 
glory;  again  on  the  earth:  let  us  enrich  our- 
selves; all  these  things  are  on  the  earth.  These 
are  they,  whose  god  is  their  belly ;  for  if  they 
nave  no  spiritual  thoughts,  but  have  all  their 
Possessions  here,  and  mind  these  things,  with 

/*  1J1*!* "»  •on,e  &lse  «ading  here.    Old  Lat.  has  "  What  is  their 
<*"   This,*  Let  us  cat  and  drink!'" 


reason  have  they  their  belly  for  their  god,  in 
saying,  "  Let  us  eat  and  drink,  for  to-morrow  we 
die."  And  about  thy  body,  thou  grievest,  tell 
me,  that  it  is  of  earth,  though  thus  thou  art  not 
at  all  injured.  But  thy  soul  thou  draggest  down 
to  the  earth,  when  thou  oughtest  to  render  even 
thy  body  spiritual ;  for  thou  may  est,  if  thou  wilt. 
Thou  hast  received  a  belly,  that  thou  mayest 
feed,  not  distend  it,  that  thou  mayest  have  the 
mastery  over  it,  not  have  it  as  mistress  over 
thee  :  that  it  may  minister  to  thee  for  the  nour- 
ishment of  the  other  parts,  not  that  thou  may- 
est minister  to  it,  not  that  thou  mayest  exceed 
limits.  The  sea,  when  it  passes  its  bounds,  doth 
not  work  so  many  evils,  as  the  belly  doth  to  our 
body,  together  with  our  soul.  The  former  over- 
floweth  all  the  earth,  the  latter  all  the  body.  Put 
moderation  for  a  boundary  to  it,  as  God  hath  put 
the  sand  for  the  sea.  Then  if  its  waves  arise, 
and  rage  furiously,  rebuke  it,  with  the  power 
which  is  in  thee.  See  how  God  hath  honored 
thee,  that  thou  mightest  imitate  Him,  and  thou 
wilt  not ;  but  thou  seest  the  belly  overflowing, 
destroying  and  overwhelming  thy  whole  nature, 
and  darest  not  to  restrain  or  moderate  it. 

"  Whose  God,"  he  saith,  "  is  their  belly."  Let 
us  see  how  Paul  served  God :  let  .us  see  how 
gluttons  serve  their  belly.  Do  not  they  undergo 
ten  thousand  such  deaths?  do  not  they  fear  to 
disobey  whatever  it  orders  ?  do  not  they  minis- 
ter impossibilities  to  it?  Are  not  they  worse 
than  slaves  ?  "  But  our  citizenship,"  says  he, 
"  is  in  Heaven."  Let  us  not  then  seek  for  ease 
here ;  there  do  we  shine,  where  also  our  citizen- 
ship is.  "  From  whence  also,"  saith  he,  "  we 
wait  for  a  Saviour,"  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ :  "  who 
shall  fashion  anew  the  body  of  our  humiliation, 
that  it  may  be  conformed  to  the  body  of  his 
glory."  By  little  and  little  he  hath  carried  us 
up.  He  saith,  "  From  Heaven  "  and  "  Our 
Saviour,"  showing,  from  the  place  and  from  the 
Person,  the  dignity  of  the  subject.  "  Who  shall 
fashion  anew  the  body  of  our  humiliation,"  saith 
he.  The  body  now  suffereth  many  things  :  it  is 
bound  with  chains,  it  is  scourged,  it  suffereth 
innumerable  evils ;  but  the  body  of  Christ  suf- 
fered the  same.  This,  then,  he  hinted  at  when 
he  said,  "  That  it  may  be  conformed  to  the  body 
of  his  glory."  Wherefore  the  body  is  the  same, 
but  putteth  on  incorruption.  "  Shall  fashion 
anew."  Wherefore  the  fashion  is  different ;  or 
perchance  he  has  spoken  figuratively  of  the 
change. 

He  saith,  "the  body  of  our  humiliation," 
because  it  is  now  humbled,  subject  to  destruc- 
tion, to  pain,  because  it  seemeth  to  be  worthless, 
and  to  have  nothing  beyond  that  of  other  ani- 
mals. "  That  it  may  be  conformed  to  the  body 
of  his  glory."  What?  shall  this  our  body  be 
fashioned  like  unto  Him,  who  sitteth  at  the  right 


244 


WORKS   OF   ST.   CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  XIIL 


hand  of  the  Father,  to  Him  who  is  worshiped 
by  the  Angels,  before  whom  do  stand  the  incor- 
poreal Powers,  to  Him  who  is  above  all  rule, 
and  power,  and  might  ?  If  then  the  whole  world 
were  to  take  up  weeping  and  lament  for  those 
who  have  fallen  from  this  hope,  could  it  wor- 
thily lament  ?  because,  when  a  promise  is  given 
us  of  our  body  being  made  like  to  Him,  it  still 
departs  with  the  demons.  I  care  not  for  hell 
henceforth ;  whatever  can  be  said,  having  fallen 
from  so  great  glory,  now  and  henceforth  con- 
sider hell  to  be  nothing  to  this  falling  away. 
What  sayest  thou,  O  Paul?  To  be  made  like 
unto  Him  ?  Yes,  he  answereth ;  then,  lest  you 
should  disbelieve,  he  addeth  a  reason ;  "  Accord- 
ing to  the  working  whereby  He  is  able  even  to 
subject  all  things  unto  Himself."  He  hath 
power,  saith  he,  to  subject  all  things  unto  Him- 
self, wherefore  also  destruction  and  death.  Or 
rather,  He  doth  this  also  with  the  same  power. 
For  tell  me,  which  requireth  the  greater  power, 
to  subject  demons,  and  Angels,  and  Archangels, 
and  Cherubim,  and  Seraphim,  or  to  make  the 
body  incorruptible  and  immortal?  The  latter 
certainly  much  more  than  the  former ;  he  showed 
forth  the  greater  works  of  His  power,  that  you 
might  believe  these  too.  Wherefore,  though  ye 
see  these  men  rejoicing,  and  honored,  yet 
stand  firm,  be  not  offended  at  them,  be  not 
moved.  These  our  hopes  are  sufficient  to  raise 
up  even  the  most  sluggish  and  indolent. 

Chap.  iv.  ver.  i.  "Wherefore,"  saith  he, 
"  my  brethren,  beloved  and  longed  for,  my  joy 
and  crown,  so  stand  fast  in  the  Lord,  my  be- 
loved." 

"So."  How?  Unmoved.  See  how  he  add- 
eth praise  after  exhortation,  "  my  joy  and  my 
crown,"  not  simply  joy  but  glory  too,  not  simply 
glory  but  my  crown  too.  Which  glory  nought 
can  equal,  since  it  is  the  crown  of  Paul.  "  So 
stand  fast  in  the  Lord,  my  beloved,"  i.e.  in  the 
hope  of  God.1 

Ver.  2,  3.  "I  exhort  Euodia,  and  exhort 
Syntyche,  to  be  of  the  same  mind  in  the  Lord. 
Yea,  I  beseech  thee  also,  true  yokefellow,  help 
these  women." 

Some  say  Paul  here  exhorts  his  own  wife ;  but 
it  is  not  so,  but  some  other  woman,  or  the  hus- 
band of  one  of  them.  "  Help  these  women,  for 
they  labored  with  me  in  the  Gospel,  with 
Clement  also,  and  the  rest  of  my  fellow-workers 
whose  names  are  in  the  book  of  life."  Seest 
thou  how  great  a  testimony  he  beareth  to  their 
virtue?  For  as  Christ  saith  to  his  Apostles, 
"  Rejoice  not  that  the  spirits  are  subject  to  you, 
but  rejoice  that  your  names  are  written  in  the 

1  TChrys.  strangely  overlooks  the  fact  that  in  the  Epistle  "  the 
Lord  usually  means  Christ.  #  Standing  in  the  Ix>rd  may  be  readily 
understood  if  we  contrast  it  with  efforts  to  stand  outside  of  Christ, 
apart  from  him.  Compare  (Meyer)  z  Thess.  lit.  8,  and  often  in 
Paul's  writings.  —  J.  A.  B.] 


book  of  life  "  (Luke  x.  20)  ;  so  Paul  testifieth 
to  them,  saying,  "  whose  names  are  in  the  book 
of  life."  These  women  seem  to  me  to  be  the 
chief  of  the  Church  which  was  there,  and  he 
commendeth  them  to  some  notable  man  whom 
he  calls  his  "  yokefellow,"  to  whom  perchance 
he  was  wont  to  commend  them,  as  to  a  fellow- 
worker,  and  fellow-soldier,  and  brother,  and 
companion,  as  he  doth  in  the  Epistle  to  the 
Romans,  when  he  saith,  "  I  commend  unto  you 
Phebe  our  sister,  who  is  a  servant  of  the  Church 
that  is  at  Cenchrea."  (Rom.  xvi.  1.)  "Yokefel- 
low ; "  either  some  brother  of  theirs,  or  a  husband 
of  hers ;  as  if  he  had  said,  Now  thou  art  a  true 
brother,  now  a  true  husband,  because  thou  hast 
become  a  Member.  "For  they  labored  with 
me  in  the  Gospel."  This  protection2  came 
from  home,  not  from  friendship,  but  for  good 
deeds.  "Labored  with  me."  What  sayest 
thou?  Did  women  labor  with  thee?  Yes,  he 
answereth,  they  too  contributed  no  small  por- 
tion. Although  many  were  they  who  wrought 
together  with  him,  yet  these  women  also  acted 
with  him  amongst  the  many.  The  Churches 
then  were  no  little  edified,  for  many  good  ends 
are  gained  where  they  who  are  approved,  be 
they  men,  or  be  they  women,  enjoy  from  the 
rest  such  honor.  For  in  the  first  place  the 
rest  were  led  on  to  a  like  zeal ;  in  the  second 
place,  they  also  gained 8  by  the  respect  shown ; 
and  thirdly,  they  made  those  very  persons 
more  zealous  and  earnest.  Wherefore  thou 
seest  that  Paul  hath  everywhere  a  care  for 
this,  and  commendeth  such  men  for  con- 
sideration. As  he  saith  in  the  Epistle  to  the 
Corinthians :  "  Who  are  the  first-fruits  of 
Achaia."  (1  Cor.  xvi.  15.)  Some  say  that  the 
word  "  yokefellow,"  (Syzygus,)  is  a  proper  name. 
Well,  what?  Whether  it  be  so,  or  no,  we  need 
not  accurately  enquire,4  but  observe  that  he  gives 
his  orders,  that  these  women  should  enjoy  much 
protection. 

All  we  have,  saith  he,  is  in  the  heavens,  our 
Saviour,  our  city,  whatever  a  man  can  name  : 
"  whence,"  saith  he,  "  we  wait  for  a  Saviour,  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ."  And  this  is  an  act  of  His 
kindness  and  love  toward  man.  He  Himself 
again  cometh  to  us,  he  doth  not  drag  us  thither, 
but  takes  us,  and  so  departs  with  us.  And  this 
is  a  mark  of  great  honor ;  for  if  He  came  to  us 
when  we  were  enemies,  much  rather  doth  He 
now  when  we  are  become  friends.  He  doth 
not  commit  this  to  the  Angels,  nor  to  servants, 
but  Himself  cometh  to  call  us  to  His  royal  man- 


*  wfHxrraaia.,  he  means  the  recommendation  to  protection. 

*  i.e.  a  reward,  see  on  x  Tim.  v.  6,  Horn.  xv. 

*  [Upon  this  whole  passage,  ver.  a,  3,  nothing  is  really  known  to 
this  day  beyond  what  Chrys.  nere  says.  The  view  that  Syzygus  is  a 
proper  name  is  preferred  by  Meyer  and  Grimm  (Thayer),  and  West- 
cott  and  Hort  so  print  in  the  margin.  A  complete  discussion  may 
be  found  in  Lightfoot.  —  J.  A.  B.] 


Homily  XIII.] 


HOMILIES   ON    PHILIPPIANS. 


245 


sion.  See,  we  also  "  shall  be  caught  up  in  the 
clouds"  (i  Thess.  iv.  17),  doing  him  honor. 

Who  then  is  to  be  found  "  the  faithful  and 
wise  servant "  ?  Who  are  they  that  are  deemed 
worthy  of  such  good  things?  How  miserable 
are  those  who  fail !  For  if  we  were  forever  to 
weep,  should  we  do  aught  worthy  of  the  occa- 
sion? For  were  you  to  make  mention  of  hells 
innumerable,  you  would  name  nothing  equal  to 
that  pain  which  the  soul  sustaineth,  when  all  the 
world  is  in  confusion,  when  the  trumpets  are 
sounding,  when  the  Angels  are  rushing  forward, 
the  first,  then  the  second,  then  the  third,  then 
ten  thousand  ranks,  are  pouring  forth  upon  the 
earth ;  then  the  Cherubim,  (and  many  are  these 
and  infinite ;)  the  Seraphim  ;  when  He  Himself 
is  coming,  with  His  ineffable  glory ;  when  those 
meet  Him,  who  had  gone  to  gather  the  elect 
into  the  midst ;  when  Paul  and  his  companions, 
and  all  who  in  his  time  had  been  approved,  are 
crowned,  are  proclaimed  aloud,  are  honored  by 
the  King,  before  all  His  heavenly  host.  For  if 
hell  did  not  exist,  how  fearful  a  thing  it  is,  that 
the  one  part  should  be  honored,  and  the  other 
dishonored  !  Hell,  I  confess,  is  intolerable,  yea, 
very  intolerable,  but  more  intolerable  than  it  is 
the  loss  of  the  Kingdom.  Consider;  if  any 
king,  or  the  son  of  a  king,  having  taken  his 
departure,  and  been  successful  in  innumerable 
wars,  and  become  the  object  of  admiration, 
should  with  his  army  entire,  return  to  any  city, 
in  his  chariot,  with  his  trophies,  with  his  innum- 
erable ranks  of  golden  shields,  with  his  spear- 
men, his  body-guard  all  about  him,  whilst  the 
whole  city  was  adorned  with  crowns,  whilst  all 
the  rulers  of  the  world  accompanied  him,  and 
all  the  soldiery  of  foreign  nations  followed  him 
as  captives,  then  prefects,  satraps,  and  in  the 
presence  of  all  the  rulers,  and  all  that  splendor, 
he  should  receive  the  citizens  who  meet  him, 
and  kiss  them,  and  stretch  forth  his  hand,  and 
give  them  freedom  of  access,  and  converse  with 
them,  all  standing  around,  as  with  friends,  and 
tell  them  that  all  that  journey  was  undertaken 
for  their  sake,  and  should  lead  them  into  his 
palace,  and  give  them  a  share  of  it,  even  if  the 
rest  should  not  be  punished,  to  how  great  pun- 
ishment would  not  this  be  equal  ?  But  if  in  the 
case  of  men  it  were  a  bitter  thing  to  fall  away 
from  this  glory,  much  more  is  it  so  with  God, 
when  all  the  heavenly  Powers  are  present  with 
the  King,  when  the  demons,  bound,  and  bowing 
down  their  heads,  and  the  devil  himself  is  led 
along  in  chains,  and  all  military  force  that  op- 
poseth  itself,  when  the  Powers  of  the  heavens, 
when  He  Himself,  cometh  upon  the  clouds. 

Believe  me,  I  am  not  even  able  to  finish  my 
words,  from  the  grief  which  lays  hold  of  my 
soul  at  this  relation.  Consider  of  how  great 
JjJory  we  shall  be  deprived,  when  it  is  in  our 


power  not  to  be  deprived  of  it.  For  this  is  the 
misery,  that  we  suffer  these  things,  when  it  is  in 
our  power  not  to  suffer  them.  When  he  receiv- 
eth  the  one  part  and  leadeth  them  to  His  Father 
in  heaven,  and  rejecteth  the  other,  whom  Angels 
take  and  drag  against  their  will,  weeping,  and 
hanging  down  their  heads,  to  the  fire  of  hell, 
when  they  have  first  been  made  a  spectacle  to 
the  whole  world,  what  grief,  think  you,  is  there? 
Let  us  then' make  haste,  while  there  is  time,  and 
take  great  thought  of  our  own  salvation.  How 
many  things  have  we  to  say  like  the  rich  man  ? 
If  any  one  would  now  suffer  us,  we  would  take 
counsel  of  the  things  that  are  profitable  !  But 
no  one  doth  suffer  us.  And  that  we  shall  so  say, 
is  clear,  not  from  him  alone,  but  from  many 
others.  And  that  you  may  learn  this,  how 
many  men  have  been  in  fevers,  and  said,  if  we 
recover,  we  shall  never  again  fall  into  the  same 
state.  Many  such  words  we  shall  then  say,  but 
we  shall  be  answered  as  the  rich  man  was,  that 
there  is  a  gulf,  that  we  have  received  our  good 
things  here.  (Luke  xvi.  25,  26.)  Let  us  groan 
then,  I  entreat  you,  bitterly,  rather  let  us  not 
only  groan,  but  pursue  virtue  too ;  let  us  lament 
now,  for  salvation,  that  we  may  not  then  lament 
in  vain.  Let  us  weep»  now,  and  not  weep  then, 
at  our  evil  lot.  This  weeping  is  of  virtue,  that 
of  unprofitable  repentance ;  let  us  afflict  our- 
selves now,  that  we  may  not  then  ;  for  it  is  not 
the  same  thing  to  be  afflicted  here  and  there. 
Here,  thou  art  afflicted  for  a  little  time,  or  rather 
thou  dost  not  perceive  thy  affliction,  knowing 
that  thou  art  afflicted  for  thy  good.  But  there, 
the  affliction  is  more  bitter,  because  it  is  not  in 
hope,1  nor  for  any  escape,  but  without  limit,  and 
throughout. 

But  may  we  all  be  freed  from  this,  and  ob? 
tain  remission.  But  let  us  pray  and  be  diligent, 
that  we  may  obtain  the  remission. .  Let  us  be 
diligent,  I  entreat ;  for  if  we  are  diligent,  wit  * 
prevail  even  through  our  prayer:  if  we  pray 
earnestly,  God  grants  our  request ;  but  if  wc 
neither  ask  Him,  nor  do  earnestly  aught  of  thif 
sort,  nor  work,  how  is  it  possible  that  we  should 
ever  succeed?  By  sleeping?  Not  at  all.  For 
it  is  much  if  even  by  running,  and  stretching 
forth,  and  being  conformed  to  His  death,  as 
Paul  said,  we  shall  be  able  to  succeed,  not  to 
say  sleeping.  "  If  by  any  means  I  may  attain," 
saith  he.  But  if  Paul  said,  "  If  by  any  means  I 
may  attain,"  what  shall  we  say?  For  it  is  not 
possible  by  sleeping  to  accomplish  even  worldly 
business,  not  to  say  spiritual.  By  sleeping,  not 
even  from  friends  can  anything  be  received,  far 
less  from  God.  Not  even  fathers  honor  them 
who  sleep,  far  less  doth  God.     Let  us  labor  . 

1  It  is  worth  observing,  that,  although  he  has  referred  to  the  rich 
man  in  Hades,  he  is  here  speaking  of  Gehenna,  and  of  present 
self-denial  as  a  means  of  escaping  eternal  punishment  after  Judg- 
ment. 


246 


WORKS   OF   ST.    CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  XIV. 


for  a  little  time,  that  we  may  have  rest  for  ever,  blessings,  in  Christ  Jesus,  with  whom,  to  the 
We  must  at  all  events  be  afflicted.  If  we  are  Father  together  with  the  Holy  Spirit,  be  glory, 
not   afflicted   here,   it  awaits  us   there.     Why  power,  and  honor,  now  and  ever,  world  without 


choose  we  not  to  be  afflicted  here,  that  there 
we  may  have  rest,  and  obtain  the  unspeakable 


end.    Amen. 


HOMILY    XIV. 


Philippians  iv.  4-7. 


"  Rejoice  in  the  Lord  alway :  again  I  will  say,  Rejoice. 
Let  your  forbearance  be  known  unto  all  men.  The 
Lord  is  at  hand.  In  nothing  be  anxious;  but  in 
everything  by  prayer  and  supplication  with  thanks- 
giving let  your  requests  be  made  known  unto  God. 
And  the  peace  of  God,  which  passeth  all  understand- 
ing, shall  guard  your  hearts  and  your  thoughts 
through  Christ  Jesus." 

"Blessed1  are  they  that  mourn,"  and  "woe 
unto  them  that  laugh"  (Matt.  v.  4;  Luke  vi. 
25),  saith  Christ.  How  then  saith  Paul,  "Re- 
joice in  the  Lord  alway  "  ?  "  Woe  to  them  that 
laugh,"  said  Christ,  the  laughter  of  this  world, 
which  ariseth  from  the  things  which  are  present. 
He  blessed  also  those  that  mourn,  not  simply  for 
the  loss  of  relatives,  but  those  who  are  pricked 
at  heart,  who  mourn  their  own  faults,  and  take 
count  of  their  own  sins,  or  even  those  of  others. 
This  joy  is  not  contrary  to  that  grief,  but  from 
that  grief  it  too  is  born.  For  he  who  grieveth 
for  his  own  "faults,  and  confesseth  them,  rejoiceth. 
Moreover,  it  is  possible  to  grieve  for  our  own 
sins,  and  yet  to  rejoice  in  Christ.  Since  then  they 
were  afflicted  by  their  sufferings,  "  for  to  you  it 
is  given  not  only  to  believe  in  him,  but  also  to 
suffer  for  him"  (Phil.  i.  29),  therefore  he  saith, 
"  Rejoice  in  the  Lord."  For  this  can  but  mean, 
If  you  exhibit  such  a  life  that  you  may  rejoice. 
Or  when  your  communion  with  God  is  not 
hindered,  rejoice.  Or  else  the  word  "  in  "  may 
stand  for  "  with  "  : 2  as  if  he  had  said,  with  the 
Lord.  "  Alway ;  again  I  will  say,  Rejoice." 
These  are  the  words  of  one  who  brings  comfort ; 
as,  for  example,  he  who  is  in  God  rejoiceth 
alway.  Yea  though  he  be  afflicted,  yea  whatever 
he  may  suffer,  such  a  man  alway  rejoiceth.  Hear 
what  Luke  saith,  that  "  they  returned  from  the 
presence  of  the  Council,  rejoicing  that  they  were 
counted  worthy  to  be  scourged  for  His  name." 
(Acts  v.  41.)     If  scourging  and  bonds,  which 

1  ["Happy"  would  be  more  exact,  but  "blessed"  has  a  fixed 
association  with  the  passage  quoted  from  the  Sermon  on  the  Mount. 
—  J.  A.  B.] 

*  [Chrys.  had  little  notion  of  scientific  precision  in  the  use  or  in- 
terpretation oflanguage.  The  word  «v,  "  in,"  sometimes  introduces 
the  instrument,  where  we  in  English  say  "with";  but  it  would  be 
hard  to  find  any  passage  in  which  it  is  clearly  equivalent  to  cw, 
"  with,"  i.e.  in  company  with,  in  connection  with.  — J.  A.  B.j 


seem  to  be  the  most  grievous  of  all  things, 
bring  forth  joy,, what  else  will  be  able  to  produce 
grief  in  us  ? 

"  Again  I  will  say,  Rejoice."  Well  hath  he 
repeated.  For  since  the  nature  of  the  things 
brought  forth  grief,  he  shows  by  repeating,  that 
they  should  by  all  means  rejoice. 

"  Let  your  forbearance   be   known   unto  all 
men."     He  said    above,   "Whose  god   is  the 
belly,  and  whose  glory  is  in  their  shame,"  and 
that  they  "  mind  earthly  things."    (Phil.  iii.  19.) 
It  was  probable  that  they  would  be  at  enmity 
with  the  wicked ;  he  therefore  exhorted  them  ta 
have  nothing  in  common  with  them,  but  to  use 
them  with   all  forbearance,  and   that  not   only 
their  brethren,  but  also  their  enemies  and  op- 
posers.     "  The  Lord  is  at  hand,8  in  nothing  be 
anxious."     For  why,  tell  me  ?  do  they  ever  rise 
in  opposition?     And  if  ye  see  them   living  in 
luxury,  why  are  ye  in  affliction?     Already  the 
judgment  is  nigh  ;  shortly  will  they  give  account 
of  their  actions.     Are  ye  in  affliction,  and  they 
in  luxury  ?   But  these  things  shall  shortly  receive 
their  end.      Do  they    plot    against   you,   and 
threaten  you?     "  In  nothing  be  anxious."     The 
judgment  is  already  at  hand,  when  these  things 
shall  be  reversed.      "  In  nothing  be  anxious." 
If  ye  are  kindly  affected  toward  those  who  pre- 
pare evil  against  you,  yet  it  shall  not  at  last  turn 
out  to  their  profit.     Already  the  recompense  is 
at  hand,  if  poverty,  if  death,  if  aught  else  that  is 
terrible  be  upon  you.     "  But  in  everything,  by 
prayer  and  supplication,  with  thanksgiving,  let 
your    requests    be   made   known    unto   God." 
There  is  this  for  one  consolation,  "  the  Lord  is 
at  hand."      And   again,  "I  will   be  with   you 
alway,   even    unto    the    end    of    the    world." 
(Matt,  xxviii.  20.)     Behold  another  consolation, 
a  medicine  which  healeth  grief,   and   distress, 
and   all   that   is  painful.      And    what  is    this? 
Prayer,   thanksgiving   in    all  things.      And    so 
He   wills   that  our  prayers   should   not  simply 

*  [It  is  evident  from  the  connection  that  Chrys.  connects  "  the 
Lord  is  at  hand "  with  what  follows,  and  not  (as  Meyer  wrongly 
states)  with  what  precedes.  Yet  recent  commentators  generally  con- 
nect it  with  what  precedes,  and  are  pretty  certainly  right.  —  J.  A.  B.} 


Homily  XIV.] 


HOMILIES   ON    PHILIPPIANS. 


247 


be  requests,  but  thanksgivings  too  for  what  we 
have.  For  how  should  he  ask  for  future  things, 
who  is  not  thankful  for  the  past  ?  "  But  in  every- 
thing by  prayer  and  supplication."  Wherefore 
we  ought  to  give  thanks  for  all  things,  even  for 
those  which  seem  to  be  grievous,  for  this  is  the 
part  of  the  truly  thankful  man.  In  the  other 
case  the  nature  of  the  things  demands  it ;  but 
this  springs  from  a  grateful  soul,  and  one  earn- 
estly affected  toward  God.  God  acknowledgeth 
these  prayers,  but  others  He  knoweth  not. 
Offer  up  such  prayers  as  may  be  acknowledged  ; 
for  He  disposeth  all  things  for  our  profit,  though 
we  know  it  not.  And  this  is  a  proof  that  it 
greatly  profiteth,  namely,  that  we  know  it  not. 
"And  the  peace  of  God  which  passeth  all 
understanding  shall  guard  your  haarts  and  your 
thoughts  in  Christ  Jesus."  What  meaneth  this  ? 
"The  peace  of  God  "  which  He  hath  wrought 
toward  men,  surpasseth  all  understanding.  For 
who  could  have  expected,  who  could  have 
hoped,  that  such  good  things  would  have  come  ? 
They  exceed  all  man's  understanding,  not  his 
speech  alone.  For  His  enemies,  for  those  who 
hated  Him,  for  those  who  determined  to  turn 
themselves  away,  for  these,  he  refused  not  to 
deliver  up  His  Only  Begotten  Son,  that  He 
might  make  peace  with  us.  This  peace  then, 
i.e.  the  reconciliation,  the  love  of  God,  shall 
guard  your  hearts  and  your  thoughts. 

For  this  is  the  part  of  a  teacher,  not  only  to 
exhort,  but  also  to  pray,  and  to  assist  by  suppli- 
cation, that  they  may  neither  be  overwhelmed 
by  temptations,  nor  carried  about  by  deceit. 
As  if  he  had  said,  May  He  who  hath  delivered 
you  in  such  sort  as  mind  cannot  comprehend, 
may  He  Himself  guard  you,  and  secure  you,  so 
that  you  suffer  no  ill.  Either  he  means  this,  or 
that  that  peace  of  which  Christ  saith,  "  Peace  I 
leave  with  you,  My  peace  I  give  unto  you " 
(John  xiv.  27)  :  this  shall  guard  you,  for  this 
peace  exceedeth  all  man's  understanding.  How  ? 
When  he  tells  us  to  be  at  peace  with  our  ene- 
mies, with  those  who  treat  us  unjustly,  with 
those  who  are  at  war  and  enmity  toward  us  ;  is 
it  not  beyond  man's  understanding  ?  But  rather 
let  us  look  to  the  former.  If  the  peace  sur- 
passeth all  understanding,  much  more  doth  God 
Himself,  who  giveth  peace,  pass  all  understand- 
ing, not  ours  only,  but  also  that  of  Angels,  and 
the  Powers  above.  What  meaneth  "  in  Christ 
Jesus"?  Shall  guard  us  in  Him,  so  that  ye  may 
remain  firm,  and  not  fall  from  His  faith. 

Ver.  8.  "  Finally,  brethren,  whatsoever  things 
arc  honorable,  whatsoever  things  are  true,  what- 
soever things  are  just."  What  is  "  Finally  "  ? 
It  stands  for,  "  I  have  said  all."  It  is  the  word 
°f  one  that  is  in  haste,  and  has  nothing  to  do 
*ith  present  things. 

"Finally,    brethren,  whatsoever    things    are 


honorable,  whatsoever  things  are  true,  whatso- 
ever things  are  just,  whatsoever  things  are  pure, 
whatsoever  things  are  lovely,  whatsoever  things 
are  of  good  report,  if  there  be  any  virtue,  and 
if  there  be  any  praise,  think  on  these  things." 

Ver.  9.  "The  things  which  ye  both  learned 
and  received,  and  heard  and  saw  in  me." 

What  meaneth,  "whatsoever  things  are 
lovely"?  Lovely  to  the  faithful,  lovely  to  God. 
"  Whatsoever  things  are  true."  Virtue  is  really 
true,  vice  is  falsehood.  For  the  pleasure  of  it  is 
a  falsehood,  and  its  glory  is  falsehood,  and  all 
things  of  the  world  are  falsehood.  "  Whatsoever 
things  are  pure."  This  is  opposed  to  the  words 
"  who  mind  earthly  things."  "  Whatsoever  things 
are  honorable."  This  is  opposed  to  the  words 
"  whose  god  is  their  belly."  "  Whatsoever  things 
are  just,"  i.e.  saith  he,1  "whatsoever  things  are  of 
good  report."  "  If  there  be  any  virtue,  if  there 
be  any  praise."  Here  he  willeth  them  to  take 
thought  of  those  things  too  which  regard  men. 
"  Think  on  these  things,"  saith  he.  Seest  thou, 
that  he  desires  to  banish  every  evil  thought  from 
our  souls  ;  for  evil  actions  spring  from  thoughts. 
"The  things  which  ye  both  learned  and  re- 
ceived." This  is  teaching,  in  all  his  exhortations 
to  propose  himself  for  a  model :  as  he  saith  in 
another  place,  "  even  as  ye  have  us  for  an  en- 
sample."  (Phil.  iii.  17.)  And  again  here, "  What 
things  ye  learned  and  received,"  i.e.  have  been 
taught  by  word  of  mouth,  "  and  heard  and  saw 
in  me " :  both  in  respect  of  my  words  and 
actions  and  conduct.  Seest  thou,  how  about 
everything  he  lays  these  commands  on  us  ?  For 
since  it  was  not  possible  to  make  an  accurate 
enumeration  of  all  things,  of  our  coming  in,  and 
going  out,  and  speech,  and  carriage,  and  inter- 
course (for  of  all  these  things  it  is  needful  that 
a  Christian  should  have  thought) ,  he  said  shortly, 
and  as  it  were  in  a  summary,  "  ye  heard  and 
saw  in  me."  I  have  led  you  forward  both  by 
deeds  and  by  words.2  "  These  things  do,"  not 
only  in  words,  but  do  them  also.  "And  the 
God  of  peace  shall  be  with  you,"  i.e.  ye  shall  be 
in  a  calm,  in  great  safety,  ye  shall  suffer  nothing 
painful,  nor  contrary  to  your  will.  For  when  we 
are  at  peace  with  Him,  and  we  are  so  through 
virtue,  much  more  will  He  be  at  peace  with  us. 
For  He  who  so  loved  us,  as  to  show  favor  to  us 
even  against  our  will,  will  He  not,  if  He  sees  us 


1  [These  are  hasty  jottings  by  Chiys.  or  a  reporter,  and  might 
easily  be  altered  in  copying.  He  can  hardly  have  meant  to  define 
"just"  by  "of  good  report,"  yet  so  the  Greek  stands;  or  else  (as  in 
some  documents)  he  defines  "  of  good  report"  by  "  if  there  be  any 
virtue,"  etc.  The  abridgment  in  the  Catena  may  have  caught  the 
real  meaning.  It  omits  "  whatsoever  things  arc  just,"  and  puts 
together  the  three  remaining  clauses  as  the  occasion  of  the  remark 
which  follows.  Or  perhaps  "i.e.  saith  he  "is  a  corrupt  addition, 
and  all  four  clauses  should  be  simply  taken  together;  for  the  remark 
applies  to  them  all.  —  J.  A.  B.] 

*  [All  of  Field's  MSS.  here  insert  "  For  nothing  is  such  an  enemy 
of  our  nature  as  vice,"  which,  however,  seems  here  out  of  place,  and 
fits  well  below,  where  it  is  placed  by  the  altered  text.  —J.  A.  B.J 


248 


WORKS   OF   ST.   CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  XIV. 


hastening  toward  Him,  Himself  yet  much  more 
exhibit  His  love  toward  us  ? 

Nothing  is  such  an  enemy  of  our  nature  as 
vice.  And  from  many  things  it  is  evident,  how 
vice  is  at  enmity  with  us,  and  virtue  friendly 
toward  us.  What  will  ye  ?  That  I  should  speak 
of  fornication?  It  makes  men  subject  to  re- 
proach, poor,  objects  of  ridicule,  despicable  to 
all,  just  as  enemies  treat  them.  Ofttimes  it  hath 
involved  men  in  disease  and  danger ;  many  men 
have  perished  or  been  wounded  in  behalf  of 
their  mistresses.  And  if  fornication  produces 
these  things,  much  rather  doth  adultery.  But 
doth  almsgiving  so  ?  By  no  means.  But  as  a 
loving  mother  setteth  her  son  in  great  propriety, 
in  good  order,  in  good  report,  and  gives  him 
leisure  to  engage  in  necessary  work,  thus  alms- 
giving doth  not  release  us  nor  lead  us  away  from 
our  necessary  work,  but  even  renders  the  soul 
more  wise.  For  nothing  is  more  foolish  than  a 
mistress. 

But  what  wiliest  thou  ?  To  look  upon  cov- 
etousness?  It  too  treats  us  like  an  enemy. 
And  how  ?  It  makes  us  hated  by  all.  It  pre- 
pareth  all  men  to  vaunt  themselves  against  us ; 
both  those  who  have  been  treated  unjustly  by 
us,  and  those  who  have  not,  who  share  the  grief 
of  the  former,  and  are  in  fear  for  themselves. 
All  men  look  upon  us  as  their  common  foes,  as 
wild  beasts,  as  demons.  Everywhere  are  there 
innumerable  accusations,  plots  against  us,  envy- 
ings,  all  which  are  the  acts  of  enemies.  But 
justice,  on  the  contrary,  makes  all  men  friends, 
all  men  sociable,  all  men  well  disposed  towards 
us,  by  all  men  prayers  are  made  in  our  behalf; 
our  affairs  are  in  perfect  safety,  there  is  no  dan- 
ger, there  is  no  suspicion.  But  sleep  also  fear- 
lessly comes  over  us  with  perfect  safety,  no  care 
is  there,  no  lamenting. 

How  much  better  this  sort  of  life  is !  And 
what?  Is  it  best  to  envy,  or  to  rejoice  with  one 
another?  Let  us  search  out  ail  these  things, 
and  we  shall  find  that  virtue,  like  a  truly  kind 
mother,  places  us  in  safety,  while  vice  is  a  treach- 
erous thing,  and  full  of  danger.  For  hear  the 
prophet,  who  saith,  "  The  Lord  is  a  stronghold 
of  them  that  fear  Him,  and  His  covenant  is  to 
show  them."  (Ps.  xxv.  14,  Sept.)  He  feareth  no 
one,  who  is  not  conscious  to  himself  of  any 
wickedness ;  on  the  contrary,  he  who  liveth  in 
crime  is  never  confident,  but  trembles  at  his 
domestics,  and  looks  at  them  with  suspicion. 
Why  say,  his  domestics?  He  cannot  bear  the 
tribunal  of  his  own  conscience.  Not  only  those 
who  are  without;  but  his  inward  thoughts  affect 
him  likewise,  and  suffer  him  not  to  be  in  quiet. 
What  then,  saith  Paul  ?  Ought  we  to  live  de- 
pendent on  praise  ?  He  said  not,  look  to  praise, 
but  do  praiseworthy  actions,  yet  not  for  the  sake 
of  praise. 


"  Whatsoever  things  are  true,"  for  the  things 
we  have  been  speaking  of  are  false.  "  Whatso- 
ever things  are  honorable."  That  which  is 
"honorable"  belongs  to  external  virtue,  that 
which  is  "  pure  "  to  the  soul.  Give  no  cause  of 
stumbling,  saith  he,  nor  handle  of  accusation. 
Because  he  had  said,  "Whatsoever  things  are 
of  good  report,"  lest  you  should  think  that  he 
means  only  those  things  which  are  so  in  the  sight 
of  men,  he  proceeds,  "  if  there  be  any  virtue, 
and  if  there  be  any  praise,  think  on  these  things  " 
—  do  these  •  things.  He  wills  us  ever  to  be  in 
these  things,  to  care  for  these  things,  to  think 
on  these  things.  For  if  we  will  be  at  peace  with 
each  other,  God  too  will  be  with  us,  but  if  we 
raise  up  war,  the  God  of  peace  will  not  be  with 
us.  For  nothing  is  so  hostile  to  the  soul  as  vice. 
That  is,  peace  and  virtue  place  it  in  safety. 
Wherefore  we  must  make  a  beginning  on  our 
part,  and  then  we  shall  draw  God  toward  us. 

God  is  not  a  God  of  war  and  fighting.  Make 
war  and  fighting  to  cease,  both  that  which  is 
against  Him,  and  that  which  is  against  thy 
neighbor.  Be  at  peace  with  all  men,  consider 
with  what  character  God  saveth  thee.  "  Blessed 
are  the  peacemakers,  for  they  shall  be  called  sons 
of  God."  (Matt.  v.  9.)  Such  always  imitate  the 
Son  of  God  :  do  thou  imitate  Him  too.  Be  at 
peace.  The  more  thy  brother  warreth  against 
thee,  by  so  much  the  greater  will  be  thy  reward. 
For  hear  the  prophet  who  saith,  "  With  the  haters 
of  peace  I  was  peaceful."  (Ps.  cxx.  7,  Sept.) 
This  is  virtue,  this  is  above  man's  understand- 
ing, this  maketh  us  near  God ;  nothing  so  much 
delighteth  God  as  to  remember  no  evil.  This 
sets  thee  free  from  thy  sins,  this  looseth  the 
charges  against  thee  :  but  if  we  are  fighting  and 
buffeting,  we  become  far  off  from  God  :  for  en- 
mities are  produced  by  conflict,  and  from  enmity 
springs  remembrance  of  evil. 

Cut  out  the  root,  and  there  will  be  no  fruit. 
Thus  shall  we  learn  to  despise  the  things  of  this 
life,  for  there  is  no  conflict,  none,  in  spiritual 
things,  but  whatever  thou  seest,  either  conflicts 
or  envy,  or  whatever  a  man  can  mention,  all 
these  spring  from  the  things  of  this  life.  Every 
conflict  hath  its  beginning  either  in  covetous- 
ness,  or  envy,  or  vainglory.  If  therefore  we 
are  at  peace,  we  shall  learn  to  despise  the 
things  of  the  earth.  Hath  a  man  stolen  our 
money?  He  hath  not  injured  us,  only  let  him 
not  steal  our  treasure  which  is  above.  Hath 
he  hindered  thy  glory?  Yet  not  that  which  is 
from  God,  but  that  which  is  of  no  account. 
For  this  is  no  glory,  but  a  mere  name  of  glory, 
or  rather  a  shame.  Hath  he  stolen  thy  honor  ? 
Rather  not  thine  but  his  own.  For  as  he  who 
committeth  injustice  doth  not  so  much  inflict 
as  receive  injustice,  thus  too  he  who  plots  against 
his  neighbor,  first  destroyeth  himself. 


Homily  XV.] 


HOMILIES*  ON   PHILIPPIANS. 


249 


For  "  he  who  diggeth  a  pit  for  his  neighbor, 
fafleth  into  it."  (Pro v.  xxvi.  27.)  Let  us 
then  not  plot  against  others,  lest  we  injure 
ourselves.  When  we  supplant  the  reputation  of 
others,  let  us  consider  that  we  injure  ourselves, 
it  is  against  ourselves  we  plot.  For  perchance 
with  men  we  do  him  harm,  if  we  have  power, 
but  we  injure  ourselves  in  the  sight  of  God,  by 
provoking  Him  against  us.  Let  us  not  then 
harm  ourselves.  For  as  we  injure  ourselves 
when  we  injure  our  neighbors,  so  by  benefit- 
ing them  we  benefit  ourselves.  If  then  thy 
enemy  harm  thee,  he  hath  benefited  thee  if 
thou  art  wise,  and  so  requite  him  not  with  the 


same  things,  but  even  do  him  good.  But  the 
blow,  you  say,  remains  severe.  Consider  then 
that  thou  dost  not  benefit,  but  punishest  him, 
and  benefitest  thyself,  and  quickly  you  will 
come  to  do  him  good.  What  then?  Shall 
we  act  from  this  motive?  We  ought  not  to 
act  on  this  motive,  but  if  thy  heart  will  not  hear 
other  reason,  induce  it,  saith  he,1  even  by  this, 
and  thou  wilt  quickly  persuade  it  to  dismiss  its 
enmity,  and  wilt  for  the  future  do  good  to  thine 
enemy  as  to  a  friend,  and  wilt  obtain  the  good 
things  which  are  to  come,  to  which  God  grant 
that  we  may  all  attain  in  Christ  Jesus.    Amen. 


HOMILY    XV. 


PmuppiANs  iv.  10-14. 


"Bat  I  rejoice  in  the  Lord  greatly,  that  now  at  length 
ye  have  revived  your  thought  for  me;  wherein  ye 
did  indeed  take  thought,  but  ye  lacked  opportunity. 
Not  that  I  speak  in  respect  of  want:  for  I  have 
learned,  in  whatsoever  state  I  am,  therein  to  be  con- 
tent I  know  how  to  be  abased,  and  I  know  also 
how  to  abound :  in  everything  and  in  all  things  have 
I  learned  the  secret  both  to  be  filled  and  to  be 
hungry,  both  to  abound  and  to  be  in  want.  I  can 
do  all  things  in  him  that  strengthened  me.  How- 
beit,  ye  did  well,  that  ye  had  fellowship  with  my 
affliction." 

I  have  ofttimes  said,  that  almsgiving  hath  been 
introduced  not  for  the  sake  of  the  receivers,  but 
of  the  givers,  for  the  latter  are  they  which  make 
the  greatest  gain.  And  this  Paul  shows  here 
also.  In  what  way?  The  Philippians  had  sent 
him  somewhat,  after  a  long  time,  and  had  com- 
mitted the  same  to  Epaphroditus.  See  then, 
how  when  he  is  about  to  send  Epaphroditus  as 
the  bearer  of  this  Epistle,  he  praises  them,  and 
shows  that  this  action  was  for  the  need,  not  of 
the  receiver,  but  of  the  givers.  This  he  doth, 
both  that  they  who  benefited  him  may  not  be 
lifted  up  with  arrogance,  and  that  they  may 
become  more  zealous  in  well-doing,  since  they 
rather  benefit  themselves;  and  that  they  who 
receive  may  not  fearlessly  rush  forward  to  re- 
ceive, lest  they  meet  with  condemnation.  For 
"it  is  more  blessed,"  He  saith,  "  to  give  than  to 
receive."  (Acts  xx.  35.)  Why  then  does  he 
ay, "  I  rejoice  in  the  Lord  greatly  "  ?  Not  with 
worldly  rejoicing,  saith  he,  nor  with  the  joy  of 
this  life,  but  in  the  Lord.  Not  because  I  had 
refreshment,  but  because  ye  advanced ;  for  this 
is  my  refreshment.  Wherefore  he  also  saith 
"greatly  " ;  since  this  joy  was  not  corporeal,  nor 


on  account  of  his  own  refreshment,  but  because 
of  their  advancement. 

And  see  how,  when  he  had  gently  rebuked 
them  on  account  of  the  times  that  were  passed, 
he  quickly  throweth  a  shadow  over  this,  and 
teacheth  them  constantly  and  always  to  remain 
in  well  doing.  "  Because  at  length,"  saith  he. 
The  words,  "  at  length,"  show  long  time  to  have 
elapsed.  "Ye  have  revived,"  as  fruits  which 
have  shot  forth,  dried  up,  and  afterwards  shot 
forth.  Here  he  showeth,  that  being  at  first 
blooming,  then  having  faded,  they  again  budded 
forth.  So  that  the  word  "  flourished  again,"  has 
both  rebuke  and  praise.  For  it  is  no  small  thing, 
that  he  who  hath  withered  should  flourish  again. 
He  showeth  also,  that  it  was  from  indolence  all 
this  had  happened  to  them.  But  here  he  sig- 
nifies, that  even  in  former  time  they  were  wont 
to  be  zealous  in  these  things.  Wherefore  he 
addeth,  "  your  thought  for  me,  wherein  ye  did 
indeed  take  thought."  And  lest  you  should 
think,  that  in  other  things  too  they  had  been 
more  zealous,  and  had  then  withered,  but  in  this 
thing  alone,  behold  how  he  has  added,  "  your 
thought  for  me."  I  apply  the  words,  "  now  at 
length,"  only  to  this;  for  in  other  things  it  is 
not  so. 

Here  some  one  may  enquire,  how  when  he 
had  said,  "It  is  more  blessed  to  give  than  to 
receive "  (Acts  xx.  25,  34)  ;  and,  "These  hands 
ministered  to  my  necessities,  and  to  them  that 
were  with  me  "  ;  and  again  when  writing  to  the 
Corinthians,  "  For  it  were  good  for  me  rather  to 

1  i.e.  St.  Paul,  Rom.  xii.  20,  on  which  passage  see  St.  Chrys., 
who  there  fully  states  this  view,  perhaps  the  only  one  that  fully  ex- 
plains the  difficulty. 


250 


WORKS   OF   ST.    CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  XV. 


die,  than  that  any  man  should  make  my  glory- 
ing void  "  (i  Cor.  ix.  15)  ;  he  suffereth  his  glory- 
ing to  be  made  void  ?  And  how?  By  receiving. 
For  if  his  glorying  was,  that  he  received  not, 
how  doth  he  now  endure  so  to  do  ?  What  is  it 
then?  Probably,  he  then  did  not  receive  on 
account  of  the  false  Apostles,  "that  wherein 
they  glory  "  (2  Cor.  xi.  12),  saith  he,  "  they  may 
be  found  even  as  we."  And  he  said  not  "  are, 
but  "  glory " ;  for  they  received  but  secretly. 
Wherefore  he  said,  "  wherein  they  glory." 
Wherefore  he  also  said,  "  No  man  shall  stop 
me  of  this  glorying."  (2  Cor.  xi.  10.)  And  he 
said  not  simply,  shall  not  stop  me,  but  what? 
"  in  the  regions  of  Achaia."  And  again,  "  I 
robbed  other  Churches,  taking  wages  of  them 
that  I  might  minister  unto  you."  (2  Cor.  xi.  8.) 
Here  he  showed  that  he  did  receive.  But  Paul 
indeed  received  rightly,  having  so  great  a  work ; 
if  in  truth  he  did  receive.  But  they  who  work 
not,  how  can  they  receive  ?  "  Yet  I  pray,"  saith 
one.  But  there  is  no  work.  For  this  may  be 
done  together  with  work.  "  But  I  fast."  Neither 
is  this  work.  For  see  this  blessed  one,  preach- 
ing in  many  places,  and  working  too.  "  But  ye 
lacked  opportunity."  What  meaneth  lacked 
opportunity?  It  came  not,  saith  he,  of  indo- 
lence, but  of  necessity.1  Ye  had  it  not  in  your 
hands,  nor  were  in  abundance.  This  is  the 
meaning  of,  "Ye  lacked  opportunity."  Thus 
most  men  speak,  when  the  things  of  this  life  do 
not  flow  in  to  them  abundantly,  and  are  in  short 
supply. 

"  Not  that  I  speak  in  respect  of  want."  I 
said,  saith  he,  "  now  at  length,"  and  I  rebuked 
you,  not  seeking  mine  own,  nor  censuring  you  on 
this  account,  as  if  I  were  in  want :  for  I  sought 
it  not  on  this  account.  Whence  is  this,  O  Paul, 
that  thou  makest  no  vain  boasting?  To  the 
Corinthians  he  saith,  "  For  we  write  none  other 
things  unto  you,  than  what  ye  read  or  even  ac- 
knowledge." (2  Cor.  i.  13.)  And  in  this  case 
he  would  not  have  spoken  to  them  so  as  to  be 
convicted,  he  would  not,  had  he  been  making 
boasts,  have  spoken  thus.  He  was  speaking  to 
those  who  knew  the  facts,  with  whom  detection 
would  have  been  a  greater  disgrace.  "For  I 
have  learnt,"  saith  he,  "  in  whatsoever  state  I  am, 
therein  to  be  content."  Wherefore,  this  is  an 
object  of  discipline,  and  exercise,  and  care,  for 
it  is  not  easy  of  attainment,  but  very  difficult, 
and  a  new  thing.  "  In  whatsoever  state  I  am," 
saith  he,  "  therein  to  be  content.  I  know  how 
to  be  abased,  and  I  know  also  how  to  abound. 
In  everything  and  in  all  things  have  I  learned 
the  secret."  That  is,  I  know  how  to  use  little, 
to  bear  hunger  and  want.  "  Both  to  abound, 
and  to  suffer  need."     "  But,  says  one,  there  is  no 

1  St.  Chrys.  understands  him  to  be  "  partially  *  excusing  them. 


need  of  wisdom  or  of  virtue  in  order  to  abound." 
There  is  great  need  of  virtue,  not  less  than  in 
the  other  case.  For  as  want  inclines  us  to  do 
many  evil  things,  so  too  doth  plenty.  For  many 
ofttimes,  coming  into  plenty,  have  become  indo- 
lent, and  have  not  known  how  to  bear  their  good 
fortune.  Many  men  have  taken  it  as  an  occa- 
sion of  no  longer  working.  But  Paul  did  not  so, 
for  what  he  received  he  consumed  on  others, 
and  emptied  himself  for  them.  This  is  to  know. 
He  was  in  nowise  relaxed,  nor  did  he  exult  at 
his  abundance ;  but  was  the  same  in  want  and 
in  plenty,  he  was  neither  oppressed  on  the  one 
hand,  nor  rendered  a  boaster  on  the  other. 
"  Both  to  be  filled,"  saith  he,  "  and  to  be  hun- 
gry, both  to  abound,  and  to  be  in  want."  Many 
know  not  how  to  be  full,  as  for  example,  the 
Israelites,  "ate,  and  kicked"  (Deut.  xxxii.  15), 
but  I  am  equally  well  ordered  in  all.  He 
showeth  that  he  neither  is  now  elated,  nor  was 
before  grieved  :  or  if  he  grieved,  it  was  on  their 
account,  not  on  his  own,  for  he  himself  was  sim- 
ilarly affected. 

"  In  everything,"  saith  he,  "  and  in  all  things 
I  have  learned  the  secret,"  i.e.  I  have  had  ex- 
perience of  all  things  in  this  long  time,  and  these 
things  have  all  succeeded  with  me.  But  since 
boasting  might  seem  to  have  a  place  here,  see 
how  quickly  he  checks  up,  and  says,  "  I  can  do 
all  things  in  Christ*  that  strengtheneth  me." 
The  success  is  not  mine  own,  but  His  who  has 
given  me  strength.  But  since  they  who  confer 
benefits,  when  they  see  the  receiver  not  well  af- 
fected toward  them,  but  despising  the  gifts,  are 
themselves  rendered  more  remiss,  (for  they  con- 
sidered themselves  as  conferring  a  benefit  and 
refreshment,)  if  therefore  Paul  despises  the  re- 
freshment, they  must  necessarily  become  remiss, 
in  order  then  that  this  may  not  happen,  see  how 
he  healeth  it  again.  By  what  he  hath  said 
above,  he  hath  brought  down  their  proud 
thoughts,  by  what  followeth  he  maketh  their 
readiness  revive,  by  saying,  "  Howbeit  ye  did 
well,  that  ye  had  fellowship  with  my  affliction." 
Seest  thou,  how  he  removed  himself,  and  again 
united  himself  to  them.  This  is  the  part  of  true 
and  spiritual  friendship.  Think  not,  saith  he, 
because  I  was  not  in  want,  that  I  had  no  need 
of  this  act  of  yours.  I  have  need  of  it  for 
your  sake.  How  then,  did  they  share  his 
afflictions?  By  this  means.  As  he  said  when 
in  bonds,  "Ye  all  are  partakers  with  me  of 
grace."  (Phil.  i.  7.)  For  it  is  grace  to  suffer 
for  Christ,  as  he  himself  saith  in  another  place, 
"  For  to  you  it  is  given  from  God  not  only 
to  believe  on  Him,  but  also  to  suffer  for  Him." 
(Phil.  i.  29.)  For  since  those  former  words  by 
themselves  might  have  made  them  regardless, 

*  [Chrys.  here  reads  "  Christ,"  the  "  Syrian  "  text;  but  the  true 
text  is  simply  "  in  him  that/'  as  in  Rev.  Ver.  —  J.  A.  B.] 


Homily  XV.] 


HOMILIES    OX    PHILI1TIANS. 


251 


for  this  cause  he  consoleth  them,  and  receiveth 
them,  and  praiseth  them  again.  And  this  in 
measured  words.  For  he  said  not,  "  gave,"  but 
"had  fellowship,"  to  show  that  they  too  were 
profited  by  becoming  partakers  of  his  labors. 
He  said  not,  ye  did  lighten,  but  ye  did  commu- 
nicate with  my  affliction,  which  was  something 
more  elevated.  Seest  thou  the  humility  of  Paul  ? 
seest  thou  his  noble  nature?  When  he  has 
shown  that  he  had  no  need  of  their  gifts  on  his 
own  account,  he  afterward  uses  freely  such  lowly 
words  as  they  do  who  make  a  request ;  "  since 
thou  art  wont  to  give."  For  he  refuseth  neither 
to  do,  nor  say  anything.  That  is,  "  Think  not 
that  my  words  show  want  of  shame,  wherein  I 
accuse  you,  and  say,  'Now  at  length  ye  have 
revived,'  or  are  those  of  one  in  necessity ;  I 
speak  not  thus  because  I  am  in  need,  but  why  ? 
From  my  exceeding  confidence  in  you,  and  of 
this  also  ye  yourselves  are  the  authors." 

Seest  thou  how  he  sootheth  them  ?  How  are 
ye  the  authors  ?  In  that  ye  hasted  to  the  work 
before  all  the  others ;  and  have  given  me  confi- 
dence to  remind  you  of  these  things.  And 
observe  his  elevation;  he  accuseth  them  not 
while  they  clid  not  send,  lest  he  should  seem  to 
regard  his  own  benefit,  but  -when  they  had  sent, 
then  he  rebuked  them  for  the  time  past,  and 
they  received  it,  for  he  could  not  seem  after 
that  to  regard  his  own  benefit. 

Ver.  15.  "Ye  yourselves  also  know,  ye  Phil- 
ippians,  that  in  the  beginning  of  the  Gospel, 
when  I  departed  from  Macedonia,  no  Church 
had  fellowship  with  me,  in  the  matter  of  giving 
and  receiving,  but  ye  only." 

Lo,  how  great  is  his  commendation  !  For  the 
Corinthians  and  Romans  are  stirred  up  by  hear- 
ing these  things  from  him,  whilst  the  Philippians 
did  it  without  any  other  Church  having  made  a 
beginning.  For  "  in  the  beginning  of  the  Gos- 
pel," saith  he,  they  manifested  such  zeal  towards 
the  holy  Apostle,  as  themselves  first  to  begin, 
without  having  any  example,  to  bear  this  fruit. 
And  no  one  can  say  that  they  did  these  things 
because  he  abode  with  them,  or  for  their  own 
benefit ;  for  he  saith,  "  When  I  departed  from 
Macedonia,  no  Church  had  fellowship  with  me, 
in  the  matter  of  giving  and  receiving,  but  ye 
only."  What  meaneth  "receiving,"  and  what 
"had  fellowship"?  Wherefore  said  he  not, 
"no Church  gave  to  me,"  but  "had  fellowship 
with  me,  in  the  matter  of  giving  and  receiving"  ? 
Because  it  is  a  case  of  communication.  He 
&ith,  "  If  we  sowed  unto  you  spiritual  things,  is 
it  a  great  matter  if  we  shall  reap  your  carnal 
things."  (1  Cor.  ix.  11.)  And  again,  "That 
your  abundance  may  be  a  supply  to  their  want." 
(2  Cor.  viii.  14.)  How  did  they  communicate? 
In  the  matter  of  giving  carnal  things,  and  receiv- 
ing spiritual.     For  as  they  who  sell  and  buy 


communicate  with  each  other,  by  mutually  giving 
what  they  have,  (and  this  is  communication,) 
so  too  is  it  here.  For  there  is  not  anything 
more  profitable  than  this  trade  and  traffic.  It 
is  performed  on  the  earth,  but  is  completed  in 
heaven.  They  who  buy  are  on  the  earth,  but 
they  buy  and  agree  about  heavenly  things,  whilst 
they  lay  down  an  earthly  price. 

But  despond  not ;  heavenly  things  are  not  to 
be  bought  with  money,  riches  cannot  purchase 
these  things,  but  the  purpose  of  him  who  giveth 
the  money,  his  true  wisdom,  his  superiority  to 
earthly  things,  his  love  toward  man,  his  merci- 
fulness. For  if  money  could  purchase  it,  she 
who  threw  in  the  two  mites  would  have  gained 
nothing  great.  But  since  it  was  not  the  money, 
but  the  purpose  that  availed,  she  received  every- 
thing, who  exhibited  a  full  purpose  of  mind. 
Let  us  not  then  say,  that  the  Kingdom  can  be 
bought  with  money ;  it  is  not  by  money,  but  by 
purpose  of  mind  which  is  exhibited  by  the 
money.  Therefore,  will  one  answer,  there  is  no 
need  of  money?  There  is  no  need  of  money, 
but  of  the  disposition ;  if  thou  hast  this,  thou 
wilt  be  able  even  by  two  mites  to  purchase 
Heaven ;  where  this  is  not,  not  even  ten  thou- 
sand talents  of  gold  will  be  able  to  do  that, 
which  the  two  mites  could.  Wherefore?  Be- 
cause if  thou  who  hast  much  throwest  in  but  a 
small  portion,  thou  gavest  an  alms  indeed,  but 
not  so  great  as  the  widow  did ;  for  thou  didst 
not  throw  it  in  with  the  same  readiness  as  she. 
For  she  deprived  herself  of  all  she  had,  or  rather 
she  deprived  not,  but  gave  it  all  as  a  free  gift  to 
herself.  Not  for  a  cup  of  cold  water  hath  God 
promised  the  kingdom,  but  for  readiness  of 
heart ;  not  for  death,  but  for  purpose  of  mind. 
For  indeed  it  is  no  great  thing.  For  what  is  it 
to  give  one  life  ?  that  is  giving  one  man ;  but 
one  man  is  not  of  worth  enough. 

Ver.  16.  "For  even  in  Thessalonica,  ye  sent 
once  and  again  unto  my  need." 

Here  again  is  great  praise,  that  he,  when 
dwelling  in  the  metropolis,1  should  be  nour- 
ished by  a  little  city.  And  lest,  by  always 
withdrawing  himself  from  the  supposition  of 
want,  he  should,  as  I  said  at  first,  render  them 
amiss,  having  previously  shown  by  so  many 
proofs  that  he  is  not  in  want,  he  here  does  it 
by  one  word  only,  by  saying  "  needs."  And 
he  said  not  "  my," s  but  absolutely,  —  having  a 
care  of  dignity.  And  not  this  only,  but  what 
followeth  too,  for  since  he  was  conscious  that 
it  was  a  very  lowly  thing,  he  again  secures  it,  by 
adding  as  a  correction, 

Ver.  17.  "  Not  that  I  seek  for  the  gift." 

As  he  said  above,  "  Not  that  I  speak  in  re- 


1  The  difference  was  probably  less  marked  in  St.  Paul's  time 
than  in  St.  Chrysostom's. 

*  The  Greek  is,  "  Ye  sent  to  me  unto  the  needs." 


252 


WORKS   OF   ST.   CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  XV. 


spect  of  want "  ;  that  is  stronger  than  this.  For 
it  is  one  thing,  that  he  who  is  in  want,  should 
not  seek,  and  another  that  he  who  is  in  want 
should  not  even  consider  himself  to  be  in  want. 
"Not  that  I  seek  for  the  gift,"  he  says,  "but 
I  seek  for  the  fruit,  that  increaseth  to  your 
account."  Not  mine  own.  Seest  thou,  that 
the  fruit  is  produced  for  them?  This  say  I 
for  your  sake,  says  he,  not  for  my  own,  for 
your  salvation.  For  I  gain  nothing  when  I 
receive,  but  the  grace  belongeth  to  the  givers, 
for  the  recompense  is  yonder  in  store  for  givers, 
but  the  gifts  are  here  consumed  by  them  who 
receive.  Again  even  his  desire  is  combined  with 
praise  and  sympathy. 

When  he  had  said,  I  do  not  seek,  lest  he 
should  again  render  them  remiss,  he  adds, 

Ver.  1 8.  "  But  I  have  all  things  and  abound," 
i.e.  through  this  gift  ye  have  filled  up  what  was 
wanting,  which  would  make  them  more  eager. 
For  benefactors,  the  wiser  they  are,  the  more  do 
they  seek  gratitude  from  the  benefited.  That 
is,  ye  have  not  only  filled  up  what  was  deficient 
in  former  time,  but  ye  have  gone  beyond.  For 
lest  by  these  words  he  should  seem  to  accuse 
them,  see  how  he  seals  up  all.  After  he  had 
said,  "  Not  that  I  seek  for  the  gift,"  and  "  Now 
at  length  " ;  and  had  shown  that  their  deed  was 
a  debt,  for  this  is  meant  by,  "  I  have  all,"  then 
again  he  showeth,  that  they  had  acted  above 
what  was  due,  and  saith,  "  I  have  all  things  and 
abound,  I  am  filled."  I  say  not  this  at  hazard, 
or  only  from  the  feeling  of  my  mind,  but  why  ? 
"  Having  received  of  Epaphroditus  the  things 
that  came  from  you,  an  odor  of  a  sweet  smell ; 
a  sacrifice  acceptable,  well  pleasing  to  God." 
Lo,  whither  he  hath  raised  their  gift ;  not  I,  he 
saith,  received,  but  God  through  me.  Where- 
fore though  I  be  not  in  need,  regard  it  not,  for 
God  had  no  need,  and  He  received  at  their 
hands  in  such  sort,  that  the  Holy  Scriptures 
shrunk  not  from  saying,  "  God  smelled  a  sweet 
savor"  (Gen.  viii.  21),  which  denotes  one  who 
was  pleased.  For  ye  know,  indeed  ye  know, 
how  our  soul  is  affected  by  sweet  savors,  how  it 
is  pleased,  how  it  is  delighted.  The  Scriptures 
therefore  shrunk  not  from  applying  to  God  a 
word  so  human,  and  so  lowly,  that  it  might  show 
to  men  that  their  gifts  are  become  acceptable. 
For  not  the  fat,  not  the  smoke,  made  them 
acceptable,  but  the  purpose  of  mind  which 
offered  them.  Had  it  been  otherwise,  Cain's 
offering  too  had  been  received.  It  saith  then, 
that  He  is  even  pleased,  and  how  He  is  pleased. 
For  men  could  not  without  this  have  learned. 
He  then,  who  hath  no  need,  saith  that  He  is 
thus  pleased,  that  they  may  not  become  remiss 
by  the  absence  of  need.  And  afterward,  when 
they  had  no  care  for  other  virtues,  and  trusted 
to  their  offerings  alone,  behold,  how  again  he 


setteth  them  right  by  saying,  "Will  I  eat  the 
flesh  of  bulls,  or  drink  the  blood  of  goats?" 
(Ps.  1.  13.)  This  Paul  also  saith.  "  Not  that  I 
seek,"  saith  he,  "  for  the  gift." 

Ver.  19.  "And  may1  my  God  fulfill  every 
need  of  yours,  according  to  His  riches  in 
glory,  in  Christ  Jesus." 

Behold  how  he  invokes  blessings  upon  them, 
as  poor  men  do.  But  if  even  Paul  blesseth  those 
who  give,  much  more  let  us  not  be  ashamed  to 
do  this  when  we  receive.  Let  us  not  receive  as 
though  we  ourselves  had  need,  let  us  not  rejoice 
on  our  own  account,  but  on  that  of  the  givers. 
Thus  we  too  who  receive  shall  have  a  reward,  if 
we  rejoice  for  their  sake:  Thus  we  shall  not 
take  it  hardly,  when  men  do  not  give,  but  rather 
shall  grieve  for  their  sake.  So  shall  we  render 
them  more  zealous,  if  we  teach  them,  that  not 
for  our  own  sake  do  we  so  act ;  "  but  may  my 
God  "  fulfill  every  need  of  yours,  or  every  grace, 
or  every  joy.*  If  the  second  be  true,  "  every 
grace,"  he  meaneth  not  only  the  alms,  which 
are  of  earth,  but  every  excellency.  If  the  first, 
"  your  every  need,"  which  I  think  too  should 
rather  be  read,  this  is  what  he  means  to  show. 
As  he  had  said,  "ye  lacked  opportunity,"  he 
here  maketh  an  addition,  as  he  doth  in  the 
Epistle  to  the  Corinthians,  saying,  "And  He 
that  supplieth  seed  to  the  sower,  may  He  sup- 
ply bread  for  food,  and  multiply  your  seed  for 
sowing,  and  increase  the  fruits  of  your  righteous- 
ness." (2  Cor.  ix.  10.)  He  invokes  blessings 
upon  them,  that  they  may  abound,  and  have 
wherewith  to  sow.  He  blesseth  them  too,  not 
simply  that  they  might  abound,  but  "  according 
to  His  riches,"  so  that  this  too  is  done  in  meas- 
ured terms.  For  had  they  been  as  he  was,  so 
truly  wise,  so  crucified,  he  would  not  have  done 
this  ;  but  since  they  were  men  that  were  handi- 
craftsmen, poor,  having  wives,  bringing  up  chil- 
dren, ruling  their  families,  and  who  had  given 
these  very  gifts  out  of  small  possessions,  and  had 
certain  desires  of  the  things  of  this  world,  he 
blesseth  them  appropriately.  For  it  is  not  un- 
seemly to  invoke  sufficiency  and  plenty  upon 
those  who  thus  use  them.  See  too  what  he  said. 
He  said  not,  May  He  make  you  rich,  and  to 
abound  greatly ;  but  what  said  he  ?  "  May  He 
fulfill  every  need  of  yours,"  so  that  ye  may  not 
be  in  want,  but  have  things  for  your  necessities. 
Since  Christ  too,  when  He  gave  us  a  form  of 
prayer,  inserted  also  this  in  the  prayer,  when  He 
taught  us  to  say,  "  Give  us  this  day  our  daily 
bread."     (Matt.  vi.  11.) 

"  According  to  His  riches."     That  is,  accord- 


1  [This  is  the  reading  for  the  N.T.  text  of  a  good  many  documents, 
but  both  the  best  and  the  majority  there  read,  "  And  my  God  shall 
fulfill,"  as  do  also  several  documents  for  Chrys.  here.  — J.  A.  B.] 

*  [The  words vaciav, "  need,"  ^apty,  "  grace,"  and  xapap,  "joy," 
are  similar,  and  Chrys.  indulges  in  some  conjectures.  Tisch.  gives 
no  evidence  of  any  question  as  to  the  reading.  — J.  A.  B.] 


Homily  XV.] 


HOMILIES   ON    PHILIPPIANS. 


253 


ing  to  His  free  gift,  i.e.  it  is  easy  to  Him,  and 
possible,  and  quickly.  And  since  I  have  spoken 
of  need,  do  not  think  that  he  will  drive  you  into 
straits.  Wherefore  he  added,  "  according  to  his 
riches  in  glory  in  Christ  Jesus."  So  shall  all 
things  abound  to  you,  that  you  may  have  them 
to  His  glory.  Or,  ye  are  wanting  in  nothing ; 
(for  it  is  written,  "  great  grace  was  upon  them 
all,  neither  was  there  any  that  lacked.")  (Acts 
w-  33-)  Or,  so  as  to  do  all  things  for  His  glory, 
as  if  he  had  said,  that  ye  may  use  your  abun- 
dance to  His  glory. 

Ver.  20.  "  Now  unto  our  God  and  Father  be 
the  glory  for  ever  and  ever.  Amen."  For  the 
glory  of  which  he  speaks  belongs  not  only  to 
the  Son,  but  to  the  Father  too,  for  when  the  Son 
is  glorified,  then  is  the  Father  also.  For  when 
he  said,  This  is  done  to  the  glory  of  Christ,  lest 
any  one  should  suppose  that  it  is  to  His  glory 
alone,  he  continued,  "  Unto  our  God  and  Father 
be  the  glory,"  that  glory  which  is  paid  to  the 
Son.  , 

Ver.  21.  "Salute  every  saint  in  Christ  Jesus." 

This  also  is  no  small  thing.  For  it  is  a  proof 
of  great  good  will,  to  salute  them  through  let- 
ters. "  The  brethren  which  are  with  me  salute 
you."  And  yet  thou  saidst  that  thou  hast  "  no 
one  like-minded,  who  will  care  truly  for  your 
state."  How  then  sayest  thou  now, "  The  breth- 
ren which  are  with  me"?  He  either  saith, 
"The  brethren  which  are  with  me,"  because  he 
hath  no  one  like-minded  of  those  who  are  with 
him,  (where  he  doth  not  speak  of  those  in  the 
city,  for  how  were  they  constrained  to  under- 
take the  affairs  of  the  Apostles  ?)  or  that  he  did 
not  refuse  to  call  even  those  brethren. 

Ver.  22,  23.  "  All  the  saints  salute  you,  es- 
pecially they  that  are  of  Caesar's  household.  The 
grace  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  be  with  your 
spirit." 

He  elevated  them  and  strengthened  them,  by 
showing  that  his  preaching  had  reached  even  to 
the  king's1  household.  For  if  those  who  were 
in  the  king's  palace  despised  all  things  for  the 
sake  of  the  King  of  Heaven,  far  more  ought 
they  to  do  this.  And  this  too  was  a  proof  of 
the  love  of  Paul,  and  that  he  had  told  many 
things  of  them,  and  said  great  things  of  them, 
whence  he  had  even  led  those  who  were  in  the 
palace  to  a  longing  for  them,  so  that  those  who 
had  never  seen  them  saluted  them.  Especially 
because  the  faithful  were  then  in  affliction,  his 
love  was  great.  And  those  who  were  absent 
from  each  other  were  closely  conjoined  together 
as  if  real  limbs.  And  the  poor  man  was  similarly 
disposed  toward  the  rich,  and  the  rich  toward 
the  poor,  and  there  was  no  preeminence,  in  that 
they  were  all  equally  hated  and  cast  out,  and 

1  [It  must  be  remembered  that  "  king  "  was  the  regular  Greek 
torn  umt  the  Roman  imperator  (emperor).  —  J.  A.  B.] 


that  for  the  same  cause.  For  as,  if  captives  taken 
from  divers  cities  should  arise  and  come  to  the 
same  towns,  they  eagerly  embrace  each  other, 
their  common  calamity  binding  them  together ; 
thus  too  at  that  time  they  had  great  love  one 
toward  another,  the  communion  of  their  afflic- 
tions and  persecutions  uniting  them. 

Moral.  For  affliction  is  an  unbroken  bond, 
the  increase  of  love,  the  occasion  of  compunc- 
tion and  piety.  Hear  the  words  of  David,  "  It 
is  good  for  me  that  I  have  been  afflicted,  that 
I  might  learn  Thy  statutes."  (Ps.  cxix.  71.) 
And  again  another  prophet,  who  saith,  "  It  is 
good  for  a  man  that  he  bear  the  yoke  in  his 
youth."  (Lam.  iii.  27.)  And  again,  "Blessed 
is  the  man  whom  Thou  chastenest,  O  Lord." 
(Ps.  xciv.  12.)  And  another  who  saith,  "De- 
spise not  the  chastening  of  the  Lord."  (Prov. 
iii.  11.)  And  "if  thou  come  near  to  serve  the 
Lord,  prepare  thy  soul  for  temptation."  (Ec- 
clus.  xi.  1.)  And  Christ  also  said  to  His  dis- 
ciples, "  In  the  world  ye  shall  have  tribulation, 
but  be  of  good  cheer."  (John  xvi.  33.)  And 
again,  "  Ye  shall  weep  and  lament,  but  the  world 
shall  rejoice."  (John  xvi.  20.)  And  again, 
"  Narrow  and  straitened  is  the  way."  (Matt, 
vii.  14.)  Dost  thou  see  how  tribulation  is  every- 
where lauded,  everywhere  assumed  as  needful 
for  us  ?  For  if  in  the  contests  of  the  world,  no 
one  without  this  receiveth  the  crown,  unless  he 
fortify  himself  by  toil,  by  abstinence  from  deli- 
cacies, by  living  according  to  rule,  by  watchings, 
and  innumerable  other  things,  much  more  so 
here.  For  whom  wilt  thou  name  as  an  instance  ? 
The  king?  Not  even  he  liveth  a  life  free  from 
care,  but  one  burdened  with  much  tribulation 
and  anxiety.  For  look  not  to  his  diadem,  but 
to  his  sea  of  cares,  by  which  the  crown  is  pro- 
duced for  him.  Nor  look  to  his  purple  robe, 
but  to  his  soul,  which  is  darker  than  that  purple. 
His  crown  doth  not  so  closely  bind  his  brow,  as 
care  doth  his  soul.  Nor  look  to  the  multitude 
of  his  spearmen,  but  to  the  multitude  of  his  dis- 
quietudes. For  it  is  not  possible  to  find  a  pri- 
vate house  laden  with  so  many  cares  as  a  king's 
palace.  Violent  deaths  are  each  day  expected, 
and  a  vision  of  blood  is  seen  as  they  sit  down  to 
eat  and  drink.  Nor  can  we  say  how  oft  he  is 
disturbed  in  the  night  season,  and  leaps  up, 
haunted  with  visions.  And  all  this  in  peace ; 
but  if  war  should  overtake  him,  what  could  be 
more  piteous  than  such  a  life  as  this  !  What 
evils  has  he  from  those  that  are  his  own,  I  mean, 
those  who  are  under  his  dominion.  Nay,  and 
of  a  truth  the  pavement  of  a  king's  house  is 
always  full  of  blood,  the  blood  of  his  own  rela- 
tions. And  if  ye  will,  I  will  also  relate  some 
instances,  and  ye  will  presently  know;  chiefly 
old  occurrences  —  but  also  some  things  that  have 
happened  in  our  own  times  —  yet  still  preserved 


254  WORKS    OF    ST.  CHRYSOSTOM.  [Homily 

in  memory.  One,1  it  is  said,  having  suspected  It  is  not  befitting  to  mention  how  another  en 
his  wife  of  adultery,  bound  her  naked  upon  his  life  miserably.  And  after  them,  one 
mules,  and  exposed  her  to  wild  beasts,  though  burnt,  like  some  miserable  wretch,  amo 
she  had  already  been  the  mother  to  him  of  many  horses,  and  beams,  and  all  sorts  of  things, 
princes.  What  sort  of  life,  think  ye,  could  that  left  his  wife  in  widowhood.  For  it  is  not  pi 
man  have  lived  ?  For  he  would  not  have  broken  ble  to  relate  the  woes  which  he  was  comp< 
out  into  such  vengeance,  had  he  not  been  deeply  to  undergo  in  his  lifetime,  when  he  rose  uj 
affected  with  that  distress.  Moreover,  this  same  revolt.  And  hath  not  he  who  now  rules,  i 
man  slew  his  own  son,8  or  rather  his  brother  did  the  time  he  received  the  crown,  been  in  toi 
so.  Of  his  sons,  the  one  indeed  slew  himself,  danger,  in  grief,  in  dejection,  in  misfortune, 
when  seized  by  a  tyrant,3  and  another  put  to  posed  to  conspiracies?  Such  is  not  the  k 
death  his  cousin,  his  colleague  in  the  kingdom,  dom  of  heaven,  but  after  it  is  received,  thei 
to  which  he  had  appointed  him ;  and 4  saw  his  peace,  life,  joy,  delight.  But  as  I  said,  life  « 
wife  destroyed  by  pessaries,  for  when  she  bore  not  be  without  pain.  For  if  in  the  affairs  of 
not,  a  certain  wretched  and  miserable  woman  world  even  he  who  is  accounted  most  happ 
(for  such  indeed  she  was  who  thought  to  supply  the  king  is  burdened  with  so  many  misfortu 
the  gift  of  God  by  her  own  wisdom)  gave  her  what  thinkest  thou  must  be  true  of  private  '. 
pessaries,  and  destroyed  the  queen,  and  herself  I  cannot  say  how  many  other  evils  there  ; 
perished  with  her.  And  this  man  is  said  to  have  How  many  stories  have  ofttimes  been  wover 
also  killed  his  own  brother.5  Another  again,  his  these  subjects  !  For  nearly  all  the  tragedie; 
successor,  was  destroyed  by  noxious  drugs,  and  the  stage,  as  well  as  the  mythical  stories,  1 
his  cup  was  to  him  no  longer  drink,  but  death,  lyings  for  their  subjects.  For  most  of  these 
And  his  son  had  an  eye  put  out,  from  fear  of  ries  are  formed  from  true  incidents,  for  it  is 
what  was  to  follow,  though  he  had  done  no  wrong,  they  please.  As  for  example,  Thyestes'  banq 
and  the  destruction  of  all  that  family  by  t 

1  After  these  words  the  Greek  text  is  disarranged,  and  irrecon-  misfortunes 
citable  with  itself  and  with  the  real  history.    Chrysostom  seems,         VW  f* 

however,  to  intend  to  say  what  follows;  that  the  brother  of  Crismis,  T hese   things  we    know  from    the  Writers 

i.e.  Constantius  Augustus,  caused  his  father's  brother,  Julius  Con-  „„_        '♦urtl,*.  .    u,,«.    :r   ,._    „„:ii      t        -ii    njjM/,a 

stantius,  and  his  sons,  Dalmatius  and  Annibalianus,  to  be  put  to  are    Without  :    DUt    if   ye    Will,    I    Will    adduce 

death.    They  were  in  fact  slain  by ;the  soldiery,  and las  some  thought,  stances   from    the    Scripture    tOO.      Saul   was 

at  the  instigation  of  Constantius  Augustus,  son  of  Constantine.    He  /•     .    i  •  j  ii_  i_  •   u     j 

adds  afterwards,  that  his  brother  was  taken  bv  an  usurper,  and  killed  nrst    King,  and   ye    knew  hOW   he    perished,  I 

?ivMdL ?kw ^^"li Au«us?s' thc  br?rer^f  Constantius,  was  experiencing  numberless  ills.     After  him,  Da 

taken  by  the  usurper  Magnentius,  or  rather  by  his  generals,  and  \  ©  ' 

slain,  but  no  writer  except  Chrysostom  says  that  he  killed  himself.  Solomon,    Abia,    Hezekiah,   JOSiah,    in    like    ! 

He  adds  that  Constantius  slew  his  cousin.    This  was  Callus,  who  -n*    ,  ;*.  •     __4.  ^--jtu    „„*#U^,,*.  nm:~t.:~~,    n*+A 

was  made  his  colleague  in  the  Empire  by  Constantius,  and  put  to  *or  lt  1S  not  POSSlble,  Without  affliction   and 

dea^JrhUorderiAD'3l5-T.J/<w,^:  .        ,  ,.  and  without  dejection  of  mind,  to  pass  thrc 

(Tillemont  understands  this  otherwise,  and  more  according  to  .1  ,.   vr  t»    ^   i    ^  L  *.     i 

the  Greek,  which  is  not  difficult  to  construe  as  it  stands;  vix.  that  the    present   life.       But    let   US    be    Cast    dOWl 

Constant  killed  himself  and  his  children  [if  he  had  any,  which  does  rninH     nnr    far   «nrh    rhino-c    nc    fhpQP     fnr    w 

not  otherwise  appear]  when  taken  by  Magnentius,  and  that  he  [Con-  ™mQ>   not    IOr   SUCIl    UlingS    as    Uiese,    IOr    Vfc 

stans\  caused  the  death  of  his  brother  Constantine  the  younger.)  KingS    gneve,    DUt    for    those    thmgS,    whence 

1  Here  Chrysostom  relates  the  violent  deaths  that  had  occurred  /«.u„^\     u„„«     «...>»„♦.     «.«;«        «  17^»     ^^^41,,     „^. 

within  memory  in  the  imperial  palace;  he  goes,  however,  by  com-  (thus)     have     great    gain.  For    godly     SOI 

mon  report,  which  usually  varies  from  the  real  fact.     He  mentions  worketh  repentance  UntO  Salvation,  a  repent* 
the  events  without  the  names.    There  is  no  doubt,  however,  that        i_«    i_  t_    •  -i_  ,.  »       //"*••  \ 

the  first  example  brought  forward  is  Constantine  the  Great,  who  Which  Dnngeth  no  regret.         (2  Lor.  VU.  IO.) 

caused  his  son  Crispus  to  be  put  to  death,  and  afterwards  his  wife  aCCOUnt  of  these  things  We  should  be  grieved 

Fausta.     Chrysostom  says  he  exposed  her  to  wild  beasts;  others,  ***-x'v,*1"v"  ""'^ ,        .  i  i  •        1    *■        i  i 

however,  relate  that  she  was  suffocated  by  his  order  in  a  hot  bath,  these  things  We  Should  be  pained,  for  these  th 

TUlemont  gives  the  most  accurate  of  all  the  accounts  of  this  affair—  wfi   ^^    be    pricked    at    heart  .    thus  Was 

3  [There  is  no  known  warrant  for  translating  rvpaypoc  by  "rebel,"  grieved    for   sinners,    thus    did    he    Weep.       " 

as  the  Oxford  tr.  does.     It  probably  means  some  local  usurping  des-  °    .        e  i_       zxi*    !•  j  •   i.        r    t- 

pot.   In  the  Horn,  on  the  return  of  Bishop  Flavian,  Chrysostom  makes  OUt    Ot    much    affliction    and    angUlSh    Ot     hea 

the  emperor  speak  of  the  Antiochene  mob  who  insulted  his  statues  wrote  untQ    you  m  many  tears."       (2  Cor.  ii. 
as     tyrants,    just  as  we  say,     the  tyranny  of  a  mob.   — J.  A.  B.J  J  J  .        v 

«  As  for  what  Chrysostom  adds  (as  usual,  without  names)  of  the  r  Or  when  he  had  no  Cause  Of  grief  On  hlS  OWr 

wife  of  one  of  the  Augusti  who  used  drugs  to  cure  barrenness,  and  ^^.,-.4.    u**  AlA  c*  «.«  »,^^.,^+   ^f  ^.«.U^.-o     ~«  -« 

perished  together  with  the  woman  who  supplied  the  drugs,  also  of  COUnt,  he  did  SO  On  aCCOUnt  Of  Others,  Or  ra 

another  Augustus  who  was  poisoned,  and  whose  son  had  an  eye  put  he  accounted  those  things  tOO  to  be    hlS    OW1 

out,  and  another  who  perished  in  some  horrible  manner,  I  have  not  ,         ,  e  •    e  .  °     /-\^%  rr 

yet  been  able  to  find  out  to  whom  it  applies.   But  what  follows,  of  least  as  tar  as  grief  went.     Others  were  orient 

one  burnt  among  beams sand  horses  and  all  sorts  of  things,  relates  to  an(J    fog    burned  :    Others  Were  Weak,  and    he 

Valens,  who  after  his  defeat  at  Hadnanople  retired  to  a  house,  and  .  '  .  / 

was  burnt  to  ashes  with  it.    The  reigning  emperor  was  Arcadius,  weak  j    SUCh  grief  as  thlS    IS    gOOd,  IS    SUperK 

wordsreS«VWh0mthChi5t0^0f^  aU  worldly  Joy-     Him  who  so  grieves  I  pi 

Tillemont  understands  the  one  poisoned  to  be  Jovian,  and  says  tO    all    men,    Or    rather    the    Lord     Himself 
that  his  son  Varronianus  was  treated  as  here  mentioned,  and  after-  ..  ,,  ,         ,  .  . 

wards  put  to  death;  and  so  Montf.,  in  his  Introduction  to  St.  Chrys.,  nOUnceS    them    DleSSed,  Who    SO    grieve,  who 

» ad  yiduam  Tuniorem/' t.  i.  p.  337-  '  sympathizing.     I  do  not  so  much  admire 

a  [1  he  older  text,  as  here  given  after  Field,  may  afford  some  help  ,J     S  °  T,  .. 

in  these  inquiries.    The  altered  text,  to  which  the  notes  refer,  makes  HI  dangers,  Or  rather  I   do    not    admire    him 

the  brother  of  the  first-mentioned  king  slay  himself  and  his  children,  r^_  4.1,^  ,1  „_.„.»..,.  U.»  ..„u:„U   U«  A'.^A    ^l„:i.,     ,.~*. 

He  whose  wife  was  destroyed  U  there  different  from  the  one  just  pre-  for  the  dangers  by  which  he  died    daily,  yet 

ceding;  and  he  who  killed  his  brother  is  there  the  suicide.    These  still  more  captivates  me.       For  it  Came  of  a 

differences  are  stated  for  the  sake  of  those  who  are  curious  about - _ 

such  matters.  — J.  A.  B.]  *  The  civil  historians. 


HOMLY  XV.] 


HOMILIES   ON   PHILIPPIANS. 


255 


devoted  to  God,  and  full  of  affection  :  from  the 
love  which  Christ  Himself  seeketh :  from  a 
brotherly  and  a  fatherly  sympathy,  or  rather, 
of  one  greater  than  both  these.  Thus  we  should 
be  affected,  thus  weep ;  such  tears  as  these  are 
full  of  great  delight ;  such  grief  as  this  is  the 
ground  of  joy. 

And  say  not  to  me  :  What  do  they  for  whom 
I  grieve  gain  by  my  so  doing?    Though  we  no  ! 
way  profit  them   for  whom  we   grieve,  at   all 
events  we  shall  profit  ourselves.     For  he  who 
grieveth  thus  on  account  of  others,  much  more 
will  so  do  for*  himself ;  he  who  thus  weepeth  for 
the  sins  of  others  will  not  pass  by  his  own  trans- 
gressions unwept,  or  rather,  he  will  not  quickly 
sin.    But  this  is  dreadful,  that  when  we  are 
ordered  so  to  grieve  for  them  that  sin,  we  do 
not  even  exhibit  any  repentance  for  our  own 
sins,  but  when  sinning  remain  without  feeling, 
and  have  care  for  and  take  account  of  anything, 
rather  than  our  own  sins.     For  this  cause  we 
rejoice  with  a  worthless  joy,  which  is  the  joy  of 
the  world,  and  straightway  quenched,  and  which 
brings  forth  griefs  innumerable.     Let  us  then 
grieve  with  grief  which  is  the  mother  of  joy,  and 
let  us  not  rejoice  with  joy  which  brings  forth 
grief.    Let  us  shed  tears  which  are  the  seeds 
of  great  joy,  and  not  laugh  with  that  laughter, 
which  brings  forth  the  gnashing  of  teeth  for  us. 


Let  us  be  afflicted  with  affliction,  from  which 
springs  up  ease,  and  let  us  not  seek  luxury, 
whence  great  affliction  and  pain  is  born.  Let 
us  labor  a  little  time  upon  the  earth,  that  we 
may  have  continual  enjoyment  in  heaven.  Let 
us  afflict  ourselves  in  this  transitory  life,  that  we 
may  attain  rest  in  that  which  is  endless.  Let 
us  not  be  remiss  in  this  short  life,  lest  we  groan 
in  that  which  is  endless. 

See  ye  not  how  many  are  here  in  affliction  for 
the  sake  of  worldly  things  ?  Consider  that  thou 
also  art  one  of  them,  and  bear  thy  affliction  and 
thy  pain,  feeding  on  the  hope  of  things  to  come. 
Thou  art  not  better  than  Paul  or  Peter,  who 
never  obtained  rest,  who  passed  all  their  life  in 
hunger  and  thirst  and  nakedness.  If  thou 
wouldest  attain  the  same  things  with  them,  why 
journeyest  thou  along  a  contrary  road  ?  If  thou 
wouldest  arrive  at  that  City,  of  which  they  have 
been  deemed  worthy,  walk  along  the  path  which 
leadeth  thither.  The  way  of  ease  leadeth  not 
thither,  but  that  of  affliction.  The  former  is 
broad,  the  latter  is  narrow ;  along  this  let  us 
walk,  that  we  may  attain  eternal  life  in  Christ 
Jesus  our  Lord,  with  whom,  to  the  Father,  to- 
gether with  the  Holy  Ghost,  be  honor,  might, 
power,  now  and  ever,  and  world  without  end. 
Amen. 


HOMILIES  OF  ST.  JOHN  CHRYSOSTOM, 


ARCHBISHOP  OF   CONSTANTINOPLE, 


ON    THE 


EPISTLE   OF   ST.    PAUL   THE  APOSTLE 


TO  THE 


COLOSSIANS. 


HOMILY    I. 


COLOSSIANS  i.    I,    2. 


P*ul,  an  Apostle  of  Christ  Jesus  through  the  will  of  God, 
and  Timothy  our  brother,  to  the  saints  and  faithful 
brethren  in  Christ  which  are  at  Colossse:  Grace  to 
you,  and  peace,  from  God  our  Father." 

Holy  indeed  are  all  the  Epistles  of  Paul :  but 
^Hie  advantage  have  those  which  he  sent  after 
^  was  in  bonds :    those,  for  instance,  to  the 
■^phesians  and  Philemon :  that  to  Timothy,  that 
*°  the  Philippians,  and  the  one  before  us :  for  this 
a*so  was  sent  when  he  was  a  prisoner,  since  he 
Writes  in  it  thus :  "  for  which  I  am  also  in  bonds  : 
***at  I  may  make  it  manifest  as  I  ought  to  speak." 
vCol.  iv.  3, 4.)     But  this  Epistle  appears  to  have 
**^en  written  after  that  to  the  Romans.     For  the 
°He  to  the  Romans  he  wrote  before  he  had  seen 
***em,  but  this  Epistle,  after ;  and  near  upon  the 
5^°se  of  his  preaching.1    And  it  is  evident  from 
J*«nce ;  that  in  the  Epistle  to-  Philemon  he  says, 
9  Being  such  an  one  as  Paul  the  aged  "  (ver.  9), 
^nd  makes  request  for  Onesimus ;  but  in  this  he 
^ndsOnesimus  himself,  as  he  says,  "With  Onesi- 
mus the  faithful  and  beloved  brother  "  (Col.  iv.  9) : 
filing  him  faithful,  and  beloved,  and  brother, 
therefore  also  he  boldly  says  in  this  Epistle, 
*  from  the  hope  of  the  Gospel  which  ye  heard, 
whichwas  preached  in  all  creation  under  heaven." 
\UL  i.  23.)     For  it  had  now  been  preached  for 
^jong  time.     I  think  then  that  the  Epistle  to 

1  Ed.  Par.  suspects  that  a  sentence  is  lost  here,  but  without  rea- 
■"*»?*  he  had  just  mentioned  the  Epistle  to  Philemon  as  written  in 
^Pnjoament,  and  consequently  later  than  that  to  the  Romans. 


Timothy  was  written  after  this;  and  when  he 
was  now  come  to  the  very  end  of  his  life,  for 
there  he  says,  "  for  I  am  already  being  offered  " 
(2  Tim.  iv.  6)  ;  this  is  later*  however  than  that 
to  the  Philippians,  for  in  that  Epistle  he  was  just 
entering  upon  his  imprisonment  at  Rome. 

But  why  do  I  say  that  these  Epistles  have 
some  advantage  over  the  rest  in  this  respect, 
because  he  writes  while  in  bonds  ?  As  if  a  cham- 
pion were  to  write  in  the  midst  of  carnage  and 
victory;8  so  also  in  truth  did  he.  For  himself 
too  was  aware  that  this  was  a  great  thing,  for 
writing  to  Philemon  he  saith,  "Whom  I  have 
begotten  in  my  bonds."  (Ver.  10.)  And  this 
he  said,  that  we  should  not  be  dispirited  when 
in  adversity,  but  even  rejoice.  At  this  place  was 
Philemon  with  these  (Colossians) .  For  in  the 
Epistle  to  him  he  saith,  "And  to  Archippus  our 
fellow-soldier"  (ver.  2);  and  in  this,  "Say  to 
Archippus."  (Col.  iv.  17.)  This  man  seems 
to  me  to  have  been  charged  with  some  office  in 
the  Church. 

But  he  had  not  seen  either  these  people,  or 
the  Romans,  or  the  Hebrews,  when  he  wrote 
to  them.  That  this  is  true  of  the  others,  he 
shows  in  many  places  ;  with  regard  to  the  Colos- 
sians, hear  him  saying,  "  And  as  many  as  have 

*  irp«<r£vWpa.  Lit.  "older."  The  argument  allows  no  other 
sense.  It  may  mean  "written  at  a  greater  age,"  or  "of  higher 
honor  "  (because  written  after  longer  imprisonment). 

5  Lit.  "  while  raising  trophies/ 


258 


WORKS   OF   ST.   CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  I. 


not  seen  my  face  in  the  flesh"  (Col.  ii.  i.  5)  : 
and  again,  "Though  I  am  absent  in  the  flesh, 
yet  am  I  with  you  in  the  spirit."  So  great  a 
thing  did  he  know  his  presence  everywhere  to 
be.  And  always,  even  though  he  be  absent,  he 
makes  himself  present.  So,  when  he  punishes 
the  fornicator,  look  how  he  places  himself  on  the 
tribunal ;  "  for,"  he  saith,  "  I  verily  being  absent 
in  body,  but  present  in  spirit,  have  judged 
already  as  though  I  were  present"  (1  Cor.  v. 
3)  :  and  again,  "I  will  come  to  you,  and  will 
know  not  the  word  of  them  which  are  puffed  up, 
but  the  power"  (1  Cor.  iv.  19)  :  and  again, 
"  Not  only  when  I  am  present  with  you,  but 
much  more  when  I  am  absent."  (Phil.  ii.  12; 
Gal.  iv.  18.) 

"  Paul  an  Apostle  of  Jesus  Christ  through  the 
will  of  God." 

It  were  well  also  to  say,  what  from  consider- 
ing this  Epistle  we  have  found  to  be  its  occasion 
and  subject.  What  then  is  it?  They  used  to 
approach *  God  through  angels ;  they  held  many 
Jewish  and  Grecian  observances.  These  things 
then  he  is  correcting.  Wherefore  in  the  very 
outset  he  says,  "Through  the  will  of  God." 
So  here  again  he  hath  used  the  expression 
"through."2  "And  Timothy  the  brother,"  he 
saith ;  of  course  then  he  too  was  an  Apostle,3 
and  probably  also  known  to  them.  "To  the 
saints  which  are  at  Colossae."  This  was  a  city  of 
Phrygia,  as  is  plain  from  Laodicea's  being  near 
to  it.  "  And  faithful  brethren  in  Christ."  (Col. 
iv.  16.)  Whence,  saith  he,  art  thou  made  a 
saint  ?  Tell  me.  Whence  art  thou  called  faith- 
ful? Is  it  not  because  thou  wert  sanctified 
through  death?  Is  it  not  because  thou  hast 
faith  in  Christ?  Whence  art  thou  made  a 
brother?  for  neither  in  deed,  nor  in  word,  nor 
in  achievement  didst  thou  show  thyself  faithful. 
Tell  me,  whence  is  it  that  thou  hast  been  en- 
trusted with  so  great  mysteries  ?  Is  it  not  be- 
cause of  Christ  ? 

"Grace  to  you  and  peace  from  God  our 
Father."  Whence  cometh  grace  to  you? 
Whence  peace  ?  "  From  God,"  saith  he,  "  our 
Father."  Although  he  useth  not  in  this  place 
the  name  of  Christ. 

I  will  ask  those  who  speak  disparagingly  of 
the  Spirit,  Whence  is  God  the  Father  of  ser- 
vants? Who  wrought  these  mighty  achieve- 
ments ?  Who  made  thee  a  saint  ?  Who  faith- 
ful ?  Who  a  son  of  God  ?  He  who  made  thee 
worthy  to  be  trusted,  the  same  is  also  the  cause 
of  thy  being  entrusted  with  all. 

1  np©<nfryoiTo,  v.  Horn.  ii.  §  i. 

*  rb  3ia,  here  used  with  the  genitive.  He  mentions  it  as  applied 
to  the  will  of  the  Father,  and  consequently  not,  as  some  supposed, 
proving  an  inferiority  in  the  Son. 

*  [Even  in  the  New  Test,  the  term  "  apostle  "  is  sometimes  ap- 

Elied  to  others  than  the  twelve  and  Paul:  as  in  Acts  xiv.  14,  proba- 
ly  in  Gal.  i.  19,  and  as  implied  in  the   phrase   "  false  apostle." 
Compare  Lightfoot  on  Gal.,  ed.  a,  pp.  95  ff.  — J.  A.  B.] 


For  we  are  called  faithful,  not  only  because 
we  have  faith,  but  also  because  we  are  entrusted 
of  God  with  mysteries  which  not  even  angels 
knew  before  us.  However,  to  Paul  it  was  indif- 
ferent whether  or  not  to  put  it  thus. 

Ver.  3.  "  We  give  thanks  to  God,4  the  Father 
of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ." 

He  seems  to  me  to  refer  everything  to  the 
Father,  that  what  he  has  to  say  may  not  at  once 
offend  them.5 

"  Praying  always  for  you." 

He  shows  his  love,  not  by  giving  thanks  only, 
but  also  by  continual  prayer,  in  that  those  whom 
he  did  not  see,  he  had  continually  within  him- 
self. 

Ver.  4.  ["  Having  heard  of  your  faith  in  Christ 
Jesus." 

A  little  above  he  said,  "  our  Lord."  "  He," 
saith  he,  ^is  Lord,  not  the  servants."  "Of 
Jesus  Christ."  These  names  also  are  symbols 
of  His  benefit  to  us,  for  "  He,"  it  means,  "  shall 
save  His  people  from  their  sins."8     (Matt.  i. 

21.)] 

Ver.  4.  "  Having  heard  of  your  faith  in  Christ 
Jesus,  and  of  the  love  which  ye  have  toward  all 
the  saints." 

Already  he  conciliates  them.  It  was  Epaph- 
roditus7  who  brought  him  this  account.  But 
he  sends  the  Epistle  by  Tychicus,  retaining 
Epaphroditus  with  himself.  "  And  of  the  love," 
he  saith,  "  which  ye  have  toward  all  the  saints," 
not  toward  this  one  and  that :  of  course  then 
toward  us  also. 

Ver.  5.  "Because  of  the  hope  which  is  laid 
up  for  you  in  the  heavens." 

He  speaks  of  the  good  things  to  come.  This  is 
with  a  view  to  their  temptations,  that  they  should 
not  seek  their  rest  here.  For  lest  any  should 
say,  "  And  where  is  the  good  of  their  love  toward 
the  saints,  if  they  themselves  are  in  affliction  ?  " 
he  says,  "We  rejoice  that  ye  are  securing  for 
yourselves  a  noble  reception  in  heaven."  "  Be- 
cause of  the  hope,"  he  saith, "  which  is  laid  up." 
He  shows  its  secureness.  "Whereof  ye  heard 
before  in  the  word  of  the  truth."  Here  the  ex- 
pression is  as  if  he  would  chide  them,  as  having 
changed  from  it  when  they  had  long  held  it. 

"  Whereof,"  saith  he,  "  ye  heard  before  in  the 
word  of  the  truth  of  the  Gospel."  And  he  bears 
witness  to  its  truth.  With  good  reason,  for  in  it 
there  is  nothing  false. 

"  Of  the  Gospel."  He  doth  not  say,  "  of  the 
preaching,"  but  he  calleth  it  the  "  Gospel,"  con- 

4  Rec.  text  inserts  "  and"  (teal  for  ru),  but  with  the  same  sense. 

8  [The  reading  wpo<r<rrrivai  (Field,  after  one  MSS.)  accounts  for 
the  others,  npoarrfvai  and  wporidivai,  the  latter  followed  here  by  the 
Oxford  ed.;  but  see  its  Addenda. — J.  A.  B.] 

0  Savile  includes  this  paragraph  in  brackets,  and  so  Ed.  Par.,  as 
it  is  not  in  some  MSS.  and  Versions,  and  is  thought  not  to  fit  in  well ; 
but  they  have  missed  the  sense. 

7  Called  Epaphras  in  the  text,  c.  i.  7,  and  c  iv.  xa.  [A  familiar 
contraction  of  such  names.  —  J    A.  B.] 


Homily  I.] 


HOMILIES  ON   COLOSSIANS. 


259 


tinually  reminding  them  of  God's  benefits.1  And 
having  first  praised  them,  he  next  reminds  them 
of  these. 

Ver.  6.  "  Which  is  come  unto  you,  even  as  it 
is  also  in  all  the  world." 

He  now  gives  them  credit.  "  Is  come,"  he 
said  metaphorically.  He  means,  it  did  not 
come  and  go  away,  but  that  it  remained,  and 
was  there.  Then  because  to  the  many  the 
strongest  confirmation  of  doctrines  is  that  they 
hold  them  in  common  with  many,  he  therefore 
added,  "  As  also  it  is  in  all  the  world." 

It  is  present  everywhere,  everywhere  victo- 
rious, everywhere  established. 

"And  is  bearing  fruit,  and  increasing,'  as  it 
doth  in  you  also." 

"  Bearing  fruit."  In  works.  "  Increasing." 
By  the  accession  of  many,  by  becoming  firmer  ; 
for  plants  then  begin  to  thicken  when  they  have 
become  firm. 

"  As  also  among  you,"  says  he. 

He  first  gains  the  nearer  by  his  praises,  so 
that  even  though  disinclined,  he  may  not  refuse 
to  hear  him. 

"Since  the  day  ye  heard  it." 

Marvelous  !  that  ye  quickly  came  unto  it  and 
believed;  and  straightway,  from  the  very  first, 
showed  forth  its  fruits. 

"Since  the  day  ye  heard,  and  knew  the  grace 
of  God  in  truth." 

Not  in  word,  saith  he,  nor  in  deceit,  but  in 
very  deeds.  Either  then  this  is  what  he  means 
by "  bearing  fruit,"  or  else,  the  signs  and  won- 
ders. Because  as  soon  as  ye  received  it,  so 
soon  ye  knew  the  grace  of  God.  What  then 
forthwith  gave  proofs  of  its  inherent  virtue,  is  it 
not  a  hard  thing  that  that  should  now  be  dis- 
believed? 

Ver.  7.  "  Even  as  ye  learned  of  Epaphras 
our  beloved  fellow-servant." 

He,  it  is  probable,  had  preached  there.  "  Ye 
famed "  the  Gospel.  Then  to  show  the  trust- 
worthiness of  the  man,  he  says,  "our  fellow 
servant." 

"  Who  is  a  faithful  minister  of  Christ  on  your s 
behalf;  who  also  declared  unto  us  your  love  in 
the  Spirit." 

Doubt  not,  he  saith,  of  the  hope  which  is  to 
come :  ye  see  that  the  world  is  being  converted. 
And  what  need  to  allege  the  cases  of  others? 
what  happened  in  your  own  is  even  indepen- 
dently a  sufficient  ground  for  belief,  for,  "ye 
knew  the  grace  of  God  in  truth : "  that  is,  in 
works.  So  that  these  two  things,  viz.  the  belief 
of  all,  and  your  own  too,  confirm  the  things  that 

1  The  passage  just  above  in  brackets  may  have  been  for  the  sake 
of  this. 

'  Rec.  text  omits  "  and  increasing  "  (col  avtav6n*vov) ,  but  it  is 
■  lone  of  the  oldest  MSS. 

*  ["On  our  behalf"  is  the  correct  N.  T.  text.  Chrys.  here,  as 
conaonhr,  has  what  Westcott  and  Hon  call  the  "  Syrian  "  type  of 
N.T.text.— J.  A.B.] 


are  to  come.  Nor  was  the  fact  one  thing,  and 
what  Epaphras  said,  another.  "  Who  is,"  saith 
he,  "  faithful,"  that  is,  true.  How,  "  a  minister 
on  your  behalf"?  In  that  he  had  gone  to  him. 
"Who  also  declared  to  us,"  saith  he,  "your 
love  in  the  Spirit,"  that  is,  the  spiritual  love  ye 
bear  us.  If  this  man  be  the  minister  of  Christ ; 
how  say  ye,  that  you  approach  God  by  angels  ? 
"  Who  also  declared  unto  us,"  saith  he,  "  your 
love  in  the  Spirit."  For  this  love  is  wonderful 
and  steadfast ;  all  other  has  but  the  name.  And 
there  are  some  persons  who  are  not  of  this  kind, 
but  such  is  not  friendship,  wherefore  also  it  is 
easily  dissolved. 

There  are  many  causes  which  produce  friend- 
ship ;  and  we  will  pass  over  those  which  are  in- 
famous, (for  none  will  take  an  objection  against 
us  in  their  favor,  seeing  they  are  evil.)  But  let 
us,  if  you  will,  review  those  which  are  natural, 
and  those  which  arise  out  of  the  relations  of  life. 
Now  of  the  social  sort  are  these,  for  instance ; 
one  receives  a  kindness,  or  inherits  a  friend  from 
forefathers,  or  has  been  a  companion  at  table  or 
in  travel :  or  is  neighbor  to  another  (and  these 
are  virtuous)  ;  or  is  of  the  same  trade,  which 
last  however  is  not  sincere  ;  for  it  is  attended  by 
a  certain  emulation  and  envy.  But  the  natural 
are  such  as  that  of  father  to  son,  son  to  father, 
brother  to  brother,  grandfather  to  descendant, 
mother  to  children,  and  if  you  like  let  us  add 
also  that  of  wife  to  husband  ;  for  all  matrimonial 
attachments  are  also  of  this  life,  and  earthly. 
Now  these  latter  appear  stronger  than  the  for- 
mer :  appear,  I  said,  because  often  they  are  sur- 
passed by  them.  For  friends  have  at  times 
shown  a  more  genuinely  kind  disposition  than 
brothers,  or  than  sons  toward  fathers ;  and  when 
he  whom  a  man  hath  begotten  would  not  succor 
him,  one  who  knew  him  not  has  stood  by  him, 
and  succored  him.  But  the  spiritual  love  is 
higher  than  all,  as  it  were  some  queen  ruling  her 
subjects ;  and  in  her  form  is  bright :  for  not  as 
the  other,  hath  she  aught  of  earth  for  her  parent ; 
neither  habitual  intercourse,  nor  benefits,  nor 
nature,  nor  time ;  but  she  descendeth  from 
above,  out  of  heaven.  And  why  wonderest  thou 
that  she  needeth  no  benefits  in  order  that  she 
should  subsist,  seeing  that  neither  by  injuries  is 
she  overthrown? 

Now  that  this  love  is  greater  than  the  other, 
hear  Paul  saying  ;  "  For  I  could  wish  that  I  my- 
self were  anathema  from  Christ  for  my  brethren." 
(Rom.  ix.  3.)  What  father  would  have  thus 
wished  himself  in  misery  ?  And  again,  "  To  de- 
part, and  to  be  with  Christ "  is  "  very  far  better ; 
yet  to  abide  in  the  flesh  "  is  "  more  needful  for 
your  sake."  (Phil.  i.  23,  24.)  What  mother 
would  have  chosen  so  to  speak,  regardless  of 
herself?  And  again  hear  him  saying,  "  For  be- 
ing bereaved  of  you  for  a  short  season,  in  pres- 


26o 


WORKS  OF  ST.   CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  L 


ence,  not  in  heart."  (i  Thess.  ii.  17.)  And 
here  indeed  [in  the  world],  when  a  father  hath 
been  insulted,  he  withdraws  his  love ;  not  so 
however  there,  but  he  went  to  those  who  stoned 
him,  seeking  to  do  them  good.  For  nothing, 
nothing  is  so  strong  as  the  bond  of  the  Spirit. 
For  he  who  became  a  friend  from  receiving 
benefits,  will,  should  these  be  discontinued,  be- 
come an  enemy  ;  he  whom  habitual  intercourse 
made  inseparable,  will,  when  the  habit  is  broken 
through,  let  his  friendship  become  extinct.  A 
wife  apiin,  should  a  broil  have  taken  place,  will 
leave  her  husband,  and  withdraw  affection  ;  the 
son,  when  he  sees  his  father  living  to  a  great 
age,  is  dissatisfied.  But  in  case  of  spiritual  love 
there  is  nothing  of  this.  For  by  none  of  these 
things  can  it  be  dissolved  ;  seeing  it  is  not  com- 
posed out  of  them.  Neither  time,  nor  length 
of  journey,  nor  ill  usage,  nor  being  evil  spoken 
of,  nor  anger,  nor  insult,  nor  any  other  thing, 
make  inroads  upon  it,  nor  have  the  power  of 
dissolving  it.  And  that  thou  mayest  know  this  ; 
Moses  was  stoned,  and  yet  he  made  entreaty 
for  them.  (Ex.  xvii.  4.)  What  father  would 
have  done  this  for  one  that  stoned  him,  and 
would  not  rather  have  stoned  him  too  to  death? 
Let  us  then  follow  after  these  friendships, 
which  are  of  the  Spirit,  for  they  are  strong,  and 
hard  to  be  dissolved,  and  not  those  which  arise 
from  the  table,  for  these  we  are  forbidden  to 
carry  in  Thither.  For  hear  Christ  saying  in  the 
Gospel,  Call  not  thy  friends  nor  thy  OBSghbon, 
if  thou  rankest  a  feast,  but  the  lame,  the  maimed. 
(Luke  xiv.  u.)  With  reason:  for  great  is  the 
recompense  for  these.  But  thou  canst  not,  nor 
endurest  to  feast  with  lame  and  blind,  but  think- 
est  it  grievous  and  offensive,  and  refusest.  Now 
it  were  indeed  best  that  thou  shouldest  not  re- 
fuse, however  it  is  not  necessary  to  do  it.  If 
thou  seatest  them  not  with  thee,  send  to  them 
of  the  dishes  on  thy  own  table.  And  he  that 
inviteth  his  friends,  hath  done  no  great  thing : 
for  he  hath  received  his  recompense  here.  But 
he  that  called  the  maimed,  and  poor,  hath  God 
for  his  Debtor.  Let  us  then  not  repine  when 
we  receive  not  a  reward  here,  but  when  we  do  re- 
ceive ;  for  we  shall  have  nothing  more  to  receive 
There.  In  like  manner,  if  man  recompense, 
God  recompensed!  not;  if  ma]]  recompense  not, 
then  God  will  recompense.  Let  us  then  not 
seek  those  out  for  our  benefits,  who  have  it  in 
their  power  to  requite  us  again,  nor  bestow  our 
favors  on  them  with  such  an  expectation  :  this 
were  a  cold  thought.  If  thou  invite  a  friend, 
the  gratitude  lasts  till  evening  ;  and  therefore  the 
friendship  for  the  nonce  is  spent  more  quickly 
than  the  expenses  are  paid.  But  if  thou  call 
the  poor  and  the  maimed,  never  shall  the  grati- 
■  tude  perish,  for  God,  who  rcmembereth  ever, 
and  never  forgetteth,  thou  hast  even  Him  for 


thy  Debtor.  What  squeamishness  is  this,  pray, 
that  thou  canst  not  sit  down  in  company  with 
the  poor?  What  sayest  thou?  He  is  unclean 
and  filthy?  Then  wash  him,  and  lead  him  up 
to  thy  table.  But  he  hath  filthy  garments? 
Then  change  them,  and  give  him  clean  apparel. 
Seest  thou  not  how  great  the  gain  is?  Christ 
cometh  unto  thee  through  him,  and  dost  thou 
make  petty  calculations  of  such  things?  When 
thou  art  inviting  the  King  to  thy  table,  dost 
thou  fear  because  of  such  things  as  these? 

Let  us  suppose  two  tables,  and  let  one  be 
filled  with  those,  and  have  the  blind,  the  halt, 
the  maimed  in  hand  or  leg,  the  barefoot,  those 
clad  with  but  one  scanty  garment,  and  that 
worn  out :  but  let  the  other  have  grandees,  gen- 
erals, governors,  great  officers,  arrayed  in  costly 
robes,  and  fine  lawn,  belted  with  golden  gir- 
dles. Again,  here  at  the  table  of  the  poor  let 
there  be  neither  silver,  nor  store  of  wine,  but 
just  enough  to  refresh  and  gladden,  and  let  the 
drinking  cups  and  the  rest  of  the  vessels  be 
made  from  glass  only ;  but  there,  at  the  table 
of  the  rich,  let  all  the  vessels  be  of  silver  and 
gold,  and  the  semicircular  table,'  not  such  as 
one  person  can  lift,  but  as  two  young  men  can 
with  difficulty  move,  and  the  wine-jars  lie  in 
order,  glittering  far  beyond  the  silver  with  gold, 
and  let  the  semicircle3  be  smoothly  laid  all  over 
with  soft  drapery.  Here,  again,  let  there  be 
many  servants,  in  garments  not  less  ornamented 
than  those  of  the  guests,  and  bravely  appareled, 
and  wearing  loose  trowsers,  men  beauteous  to 
look  upon,  in  the  very  flower  of  life,  plump,  and 
well  conditioned  ;  but  there  let  there  be  only 
two  servants  disdaining  all  that  proud  vanity. 
And  let  those  have  costly  meats,  but  these  only 
enough  to  appease  hunger  and  inspire  cheerful- 
ness. Have  I  said  enough  ?  and  are  both 
tables  laid  out  with  sufficient  minuteness?  .Is 
anything  wanting?  I  think  not.  For  I  have 
gone  over  the  guests,  and  the  costliness  both 
of  the  vessels,  and  of  the  linen,'  and  the  meats.* 
However,  if  we  should  have  omitted  aught,  we 
shall  discover  it  as  we  proceed  with   the  dis- 


:ing  ihc  Mine  •■.  in  il.c  .ilIkt  1.:,t.     M.inu'.immi  j.Iiiihico  both 

■  edition,  rhui  malting  limufalf  teadins.  —  J.  A.  B.]    Month 

j  note  mention^  William  die  Conqueror  being  represented  si 

■  hi,  Anliqiiti  ExfiUiHir.  1  i.i  ,1.  in.  |Thit  Ihe  three  t: 
Tanged  b*  a  boTIow  iquare  [triclinium!  should  be  sometime* 
:rlcd  into  a  semicircle  would  be  *  natural  piece  of  luxury,  bu 
Itely  In  become  common.  because  really  les*  convenient-  —  J    A 

eringlforlhe  tablet,  ft.. 


Homily  I.] 


HOMILIES   ON   COLOSSIANS. 


261 


Come  then,  now  that  we  have  correctly  drawn 
each  table  in  its  proper  outline,  let  us  see  at 
which  ye  will  seat  yourselves.  For  I  for  my  part 
am  going  to  that  of  the  blind,  and  the  lame,  but 
probably  the  more  part  of  you  will  choose  the 
other,  that  of  the  generals,  that  is  so  gay  and 
splendid.  Let  us  then  see  which  of  them  doth 
more  abound  in  pleasure ;  for  as  yet  let  us  not 
examine  into  the  things  of  hereafter,  seeing  that 
in  those  at  least  this  of  mine  hath  the  superior- 
ity. Wherefore  ?  Because  this  one  hath  Christ 
sitting  down  at  it,  the  other  men,  this  hath  the 
Master,  that  the  servants.  But  say  we  nothing 
of  these  things  as  yet ;  but  let  us  see  which 
hath  the  more  of  present  pleasure.  And  even 
in  this  respect,  then,  this  pleasure  is  greater,  for 
it  is  more  pleasure  to  sit  down  with  a  King  than 
with  his  servants.  But  let  us  withdraw  this  con- 
sideration also ;  let  us  examine  the  matter  sim- 
ply by  itself.  I,  then,  and  those  who  choose 
the  table  I  do,  shall  with  much  freedom  and 
ease  of  mind  both  say  and  hear  everything :  but 
you  trembling  and  fearing,  and  ashamed  before 
those  you  sit  down  with,  will  not  even  have  the 
heart  to  reach  out  your  hands,  just  as  though 
you  had  got  to  a  school,  and  not  a  dinner,  just 
as  though  you  were  trembling  before  dreadful 
masters.  But  not  so  they.  But,  saith  one,  the 
honor  is  great.  Nay,  I  further  am  in  more 
honor;  for  your  mean  estate  appears  grander, 
•when  even  whilst  sharing  the  same  table,  the 
words  ye  utter  are  those  of  slaves. 

For  the  servant  then  most  of  all  shows  as 
such,  when  he  sits  down  with  his  master ;  for 
he  is  in  a  place  where  he  ought  not  to  be  ;  nor 
hath  he  from  such  familiarity  so  much  dignity 
as  he  hath  abasement,  for  he  is  then  abased 
exceedingly.  And  one  may  see  a  servant  by 
himself  make  a  brave  appearance,  and  the  poor 
man  seem  splendid  by  himself,  rather  than  when 
he  is  walking  with  a  rich  one  ;  for  the  low  when 
near  the  lofty,  then  appears  low,  and  the  juxta- 
position makes  the  low  seem  lower,  not  loftier. 
So  too  your  sitting  down  with  them  makes  you 
seem  as  of  yet  meaner  condition.  But  not  so, 
us.  In  these  two  things,  then,  we  have  the  ad- 
vantage, in  freedom,  and  in  honor ;  which  have 
nothing  equal  to  them  in  regard  of  pleasure. 
For  I  at  least  would  prefer  a  crust  with  freedom, 
to  thousands  of  dainties  with  slavery.  For,  saith 
one,  "  Better  is  an  entertainment  of  herbs  with 
love  and  kindness,  than  an  ox  from  the  stall 
with  hatred."  (Prov.  xv.  17.)  For  whatsoever 
those  may  say,  they  who  are  present  must  needs 
praise  it,  or  give  offense ;  assuming  thus  the 
rank  of  parasites,  or  rather,  being  worse  than 
they.  For  parasites  indeed,  even  though  it  be 
with  shame  and  insult,  have  yet  liberty  of  speech  : 
but  ye  have  not  even  this.  But  your  meanness 
is  indeed  as  great,  (for  ye  fear  and  crouch,)  but 


not  so  your  honor.  Surely  then  that  table  is 
deprived  of  every  pleasure,  but  this  is  replete 
with  all  delight  of  soul. 

But  let  us  examine  the  nature  even  of  the 
meats  themselves.  For  there  indeed  it  is  neces- 
sary to  burst  one's  self  with  the  large  quantity 
of  wine,  even  against  one's  will,  but  here  none 
who  is  disinclined  need  eat  or  drink.  So  that 
there  indeed  the  pleasure  arising  from  the  quality 
of  the  food  is  cancelled  by  the  dishonor  which 
precedes,  and  the  discomfort  which  follows  the 
surfeit.  For  not  less  than  hunger  doth  surfeit- 
ing destroy  and  rack  our  bodies ;  but  even  far 
more  grievously;  and  whomsoever  you  like  to 
give  me,  I  shall  more  easily  destroy  by  bursting 
him  with  surfeit  than  by  hunger.  For  thus  the 
latter  is  easier  to  be  borne  than  the  other,  for 
one  might  indeed  endure  hunger  for  twenty  days, 
but  surfeiting  not  for  as  many  as  two  only.  And 
the  country  people  who  are  perpetually  strug- 
gling with  the  one,  are  healthy,  and  need  no 
physicians;  but  the  other,  surfeiting  I  mean, 
none  can  endure  without  perpetually  calling  in 
physicians ;  yea,  rather,  its  tyranny  hath  often 
baffled  even  their  attempt  to  rescue. 

So  far  then  as  pleasure  is  concerned,  this 
[table  of  mine]  hath  the  advantage.  For  if 
honor  hath  more  pleasure  than  dishonor,  if  au- 
thority than  subjection,  and  if  manly  confidence 
than  trembling  and  fear,  and  if  enjoyment  of 
what  is  enough,  than  to  be  plunged  out  of  depth 
in  the  tide  of  luxury ;  on  the  score  of  pleasure 
this  table  is  better  than  the  other.  It  is  besides 
better  in  regard  of  expense ;  for  the  other  is 
expensive,  but  this,  not  so. 

But  what  ?  is  it  then  to  the  guests  alone  that 
this  table  is  the  more  pleasurable,  or  bringeth  it 
more  pleasure  than  the  other  to  him  who  inviteth 
them,  as  well?  for  this  is  what  we  are  enquiring 
after  rather.  Now  he  who  invites  those  makes 
preparation  many  days  before,  and  is  forced  to 
have  trouble  and  anxious  thoughts  and  cares, 
neither  sleeping  by  night,  nor  resting  by  day ; 
but  forming  with  himself  many  plans,  conversing 
with  cooks,  confectioners,  deckers  of  tables. 
Then  when  the  very  day  is  come,  one  may  see 
him  in  greater  fear  than  those  who  are  going  to 
fight  a  boxing  match,  lest  aught  should  turn  out 
other  than  was  expected,  lest  he  be  shot  with  the 
glance  of  envy,  lest  he  thereby  procure  himself 
a  multitude  of  accusers.  But  the  other  escapeth 
all  this  anxious  thought  and  trouble  by  extem- 
porizing his  table,  and  not  being  careful  about  it 
for  many  days  before.  And  then,  truly,  after 
this,  the  former  indeed  hath  straightway  lost  the 
grateful  return ;  but  the  other  hath  God  for  his 
Debtor;  and  is  nourished  with  good  hopes, 
being  every  day  feasted  from  off  that  table. 
For  the  meats  indeed  are  spent,  but  the  grateful 
thought  is  never  spent,  but  every  day  he  rejoices 


262 


WORKS   OF   ST.    CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  I. 


and  exults  more  than  they  that  are  gorged  with 
their  excess  of  wine.  For  nothing  doth  so 
nourish  the  soul  as  a  virtuous  hope,  and  the  ex- 
pectation of  good  things. 

But  now  let  us  consider  what  follows.  There 
indeed  are  flutes,  and  harps,  and  pipes;  but 
here  is  no  music  of  sounds  unsuitable ;  but  what  ? 
hymns,  singing  of  psalms.  There  indeed  the 
Demons  are  hymned  ;  but  here,  the  Lord  of  all, 
God.  Seest  thou  with  what  gratitude  this  one 
aboundeth,  with  what  ingratitude  and  insensi- 
bility that?  For,  tell  me,  when  God  hath  nour- 
ished thee  with  His  good  things,  and  when  thou 
oughtest  to  give  Him  thanks  after  being  fed, 
dost  thou  even  introduce  the  Demons?  For 
these  songs  to  the  lyre,  are  none  other  than 
songs  to  Demons.  When  thou  oughtest  to  say, 
"  Blessed  art  Thou,  O  Lord,  that  Thou  hast 
nourished  me  with  Thy  good  things,"  dost  thou 
like  a  worthless  dog  not  even  so  much  as  re- 
member Him,  but,  over  and  above,  introducest 
the  Demons?  Nay  rather,  dogs,  whether  they 
receive  anything  or  not,  fawn  upon  those  they 
know,  but  thou  dost  not  even  this.  The  dog, 
although  he  receives  nothing,  fawns  upon  his 
master ;  but  thou,  even  when  thou  hast  received, 
barkest  at  Him.  Again,  the  dog,  even  though 
he  be  well  treated  by  a  stranger,  not  even  so  will 
be  reconciled  of  his  hatred  of  him,  nor  be  en- 
ticed on  to  be  friends  with  him  :  but  thou,  even 
though  suffering  mischief  incalculable  from  the 
Demons,  introducest  them  at  thy  feasts.  So 
that,  in  two  ways,  thou  art  worse  than  the  dog. 
And  the  mention  I  have  now  made  of  dogs  is 
happy,  in  regard  of  those  who  give  thanks  then 
only  when  they  receive  a  benefit.  Take  shame, 
I  pray  you,  at  the  dogs,  which  when  famishing 
still  fawn  upon  their  masters.  But  thou,  if  thou 
hast  haply  heard  that  the  Demon  has  cured  any- 
one, straightway  forsakest  thy  Master ;  O  more 
unreasoning  than  the  dogs  ! 

But,  saith  one,  the  harlots  are  a  pleasure  to 
look  upon.  What  sort  of  pleasure  are  they? 
yea  rather  what  infamy  are  they  not?  Thy 
house  has  become  a  brothel,  madness,  and  fury  ; 
and  art  thou  not  ashamed  to  call  this  pleasure  ? 
If  then  it  be  allowed  to  use  them,1  greater  than 
all  pleasure  is  the  shame,  and  the  discomfort 
which  arises  from  the  shame,  to  make  one's 
house  a  brothel,  like  hogs  in  wallowing  in  the 
mire  ?  But  if  so  far  only  be  allowed  as  to  see 
them,  lo  !  again  the  pain  is  greater.  For  to  see 
is  no  pleasure,  where  to  use  is  not  allowed,  but 
the  lust  becomes  only  the  greater,  and  the  flame 
the  fiercer. 

But  wouldest  thou  learn  the  end?  Those, 
indeed,  when  they  rise  up  from  the  table,  are 
like  the  madmen  and  those  that  have  lost  their 


1  [The  text  is  confused,  but  the  reading;  adopted  by  Field,  and 
here  given,  accounts  for  the  others.  —  J.  A.  B.] 


wits ;  foolhardy,  quarrelsome,  laughing-stocks  for 
the  very  slaves ;  and  the  servants  indeed  retire 
sober,  but  these,  drunk.  O  the  shame  !  But 
with  the  other  is  nothing  of  this  sort ;  but  closing 
the  table  with  thanksgiving,  they  so  retire  to 
their  homes,  with  pleasure  sleeping,  with  pleas- 
ure waking,  free  from  all  shame  and  accusation. 

If  thou  wilt  consider  also  the  guests  them- 
selves, thou  wilt  see  that  the  one  are  within  just 
what  the  others  are  without ;  blind,  maimed, 
lame ;  and  as  are  the  bodies  of  these,  such  are 
the  souls  of  those,  laboring  under  dropsy  and 
inflammation.  For  of  such  sort  is  pride  ;  for 
after  the  luxurious  gratification  a  maiming  takes 
place ;  of  such  sort  is  surfeiting  and  drunken- 
ness, making  men  lame  and  maimed.  And  thou 
wilt  see  too  that  these  have  souls  like  the  bodies 
of  the  others,  brilliant,  ornamented.  For  they 
who  live  in  giving  of  thanks,  who  seek  nothing 
beyond  a  sufficiency,  they  whose  philosophy  is 
of  this  sort  are  in  all  brightness. 

But  let  us  see  the  end  both  here  and  there. 
There,  indeed,  is  unchaste  pleasure,  loose  laugh- 
ter, drunkenness,  buffoonery,  filthy  language ; 
(for  since  they  in  their  own  persons  are  ashamed 
to  talk  filthily,  this  is  brought  about  by  means  of 
the  harlots ;)  but  here  is  love  of  mankind,  gen- 
tleness. Near  to  him  who  invites  those  stands 
vainglory  arming  him,  but  near  the  other,  love 
of  man,  and  gentleness.  For  the  one  table,  love 
of  man  prepareth,  but  the  other,  vainglory,  and 
cruelty,  out  of  injustice  and  grasping.  And  that 
one  ends  in  what  I  have  said,  in  loss  of  wits,  in 
delirium,  in  madness  ;  (for  such  are  the  offshoots 
of  vainglory ;)  but  this  one  in  thanksgiving  and 
the  glory  of  God.  And  the  praise  too,  which 
cometh  of  men,  attendeth  more  abundantly 
upon  this ;  for  that  man  is  even  regarded  with 
an  envious  eye,  but  this  all  men  regard  as  their 
common  father,  even  they  who  have  received 
no  benefit  at  his  hands.  And  as  with  the  injured 
even  they  who  have  not  been  injured  sympa- 
thize, and  all  become  in  common  enemies  (to 
the  injurer)  :  so  too,  when  some  receive  kind- 
ness, they  also  who  have  not  received  any,  not 
less  than  they  who  have,  praise  and  admire  him 
that  conferred  it.  And  there  indeed  is  much 
envy,  but  here  much  tender  solicitude,  many 
prayers  from  all. 

And  so  much  indeed  here ;  but  There,  when 
Christ  is  come,  this  one  indeed  shall  stand  with 
much  boldness,  and  shall  hear  before  the  whole 
world,  "  Thou  sawest  Me  an  hungered,  and  didst    - 
feed    Me ;    naked,   and    didst    clothe    Me ;    a  — 
stranger,  and  didst  take  Me  in"  (Matt.  xxv.  35)  ;  ^ 
and  all  the  like  words  :  but  the  other  shall  hear"= 
the  contrary ;   V  Wicked  and  slothful  servant  "^ 
(Matt.  xxv.  26)  ;  and  again,  "Woe  unto  them*" 
that   luxuriate   upon   their  couches,  and  sleeprr" 
upon  beds  of  ivory,  and  drink  the  refined  wine 


Homily  I.] 


HOMILIES   ON    COLOSSI ANS. 


263 


and  anoint  themselves  with  the  chief  ointments ; 
they  counted  upon  these  things  as  staying,  and 
not  as  fleeting."     (Amos  vi.  4,  5,  6,  Sept.) 

I  have  not  said  this  without  purpose,  but  with 
the  view  of  changing  your  minds ;  and  that  you 
should  do  nothing  that  is  fruitless.  What  then, 
saith  one,  of  the  fact  that  I  do  both  the  one  and 
the  other?  This  argument  is  much  resorted  to 
by  all.  And  what  need,  tell  me,  when  every- 
thing might  be  done  usefully,  to  make  a  division, 
and  to  expend  part  on  what  is  not  wanted,  but 
even  without  any  purpose  at  all,  and  part  use- 
folly?  Tell  me,  hadst  thou,  when  sowing,  cast 
some  upon  a  rock,  and  some  upon  very  good 
ground;  is  it  likely  that  thou  wouldest  have 
been  contented  so,  and  have  said,  Where  is  the 
harm,  if  we  cast  some  to  no  purpose,  and  some 
upon  very  good  ground  ?  For  why  not  all  into 
the  very  good  ground  ?  Why  lessen  the  gain  ? 
And  if  thou  have  occasion  to  be  getting  money 
together,  thou  wilt  not  talk  in  that  way,  but  wilt 
get  it  together  from  every  quarter ;  but  in  the 
other  case  thou  dost  not  so.  And  if  to  lend  on 
usury ;  thou  wilt  not  say,  "  Wherefore  shall  we 
give  some  to  the  poor,  and  some  to  the  rich," 
but  all  is  given  to*  the  former : *  yet  in  the  case 
before  us,  where  the  gain  is  so  great,  thou  dost 
not  thus  calculate,  and  will  not  at  length  desist 
from  expending  without  purpose,  and  laying  out 
without  return  ? 

"  But,"  saith  one,  "  this  also  hath  a  gain."  Of 
what  kind,  tell  me?  "  It  increaseth  friendships." 
Nothing  is  colder  than  men  who  are  made  friends 
bythese  things,  by  the  table,  and  surfeiting.  The 
friendships  of  parasites  are  born  only  from  that 
source. 

.  '  Because  their  distress  would  make  them  willing  to  give  a  higher 
a>tercst.  This  place  may  bear  the  sense  here  given,  hut  it  seems 
^upt.  The  sense  requires,  "shall  we  not  give?"  or  else,  "wilt 
***)  not  say  ?  "  interrogatively,  or  the  expulsion  of  3to  ri. 


Insult  not  a  thing  so  marvelous  as  love,2  nor 
say  that  this  is  its  root.  As  if  one  were  to  say, 
that  a  tree  which  bore  gold  and  precious  stones 
had  not  its  root  of  the  same,  but  that  it  was 
gendered  of  rottenness  ;  so  doest  even  thou  :  for 
even  though  friendship  should  be  born  from  that 
source,  nothing  could  possibly  be  colder.  But 
those  other  tables  produce  friendship,  not  with 
man,  but  with  God  :  and  that  an  intense8  one, 
so  thou  be  intent  on  preparing  them.  For  he 
that  expendeth  part  in  this  way  and  part  in  that, 
even  should  he  have  bestowed  much,  hath  done 
no  great  thing  :  but  he  that  expendeth  all  in  this 
way,  even  though  he  should  have  given  little, 
hath  done  the  whole.  For  what  is  required  is 
that  we  give,  not  much  or  little,  but  not  less 
than  is  in  our  power.  Think  we  on  him  with 
the  five  talents,  and  on  him  with  the  two.  (Matt. 
xxv.  15.)  Think  we  on  her  who  cast  in  those  two 
mites.  (Mark  xii.  41.)  Think  we  on  the  widow 
in  Elijah's  days.  She  who  threw  in  those  two 
mites  said  not,  What  harm  if  I  keep  the  one  mite 
for  myself,  and  give  the  other?  but  gave  her 
whole  living.  (1  Kings  xvii.)  But  thou,  in  the 
midst  of  so  great  plenty,  art  more  penurious  than 
she.  Let  us  then  not  be  careless  of  our  own  salva- 
tion, but  apply  ourselves  to  almsgiving.  For  noth- 
ing is  better  than  this,  as  the  time  to  come  shall 
show ;  meanwhile  the  present  shows  it  also.  Live 
we  then  to  the  glory  of  God,  and  do  those  things 
that  please  Him,  that  we  may  be  colinted  worthy 
of  the  good  things  of  promise ;  which  may  all 
we  obtain,  through  the  grace  and  love  toward 
man  of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  to  whom  be  the 
glory  and  the  power  and  honor,  now  and  ever, 
and  world  without  end.     Amen. 


8  Compare  St.  Clem.  Al.  Paedag.  1.  ii.  c.  x. 
8  cviTcroficiajv. 


264 


WORKS   OF   ST.    CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  II 


HOMILY    II. 

COLOSSIANS  i.   9,    IO. 


"  For  this  cause  we  also,  since  the  day  we  heard  it,  do 
not  cease  to  pray  and  make  request  for  you,  that  ye 
may  be  filled  with  the  knowledge  of  His  will  in  all 
spiritual  wisdom  and  understanding;  to  walk  worth- 
ily  of  the  Lord  unto  all  pleasing,  bearing  fruit  in 
every  good  work,  and  increasing  in  the  knowledge 
of  God." 

"For  this  cause."  What  cause?  Because 
we  heard  of  your  faith  and  love,  because  we 
have  good  hopes,  we  are  hopeful  to  ask  for 
future  blessings  also.  For  as  in  the  games  we 
cheer  on  those  most  who  are  near  upon  gaining 
the  victory,  just  so  doth  Paul  also  most  exhort 
those  who  have  achieved  the  greater  part. 

"  Since  the  day  we  heard  it,"  saith  he,  "  we 
do  not  cease  to  pray  for  you."  Not  for  one 
day  do  we  pray  for  you,  nor  yet  for  two,  nor 
three.  Herein  he  both  shows  his  love,  and  gives 
them  a  gentle  hint  that  they  had  not  yet  arrived 
at  the  end.  For  the  words,  "  that  ye  may  be 
filled,"  are  of  this  significancy.  And  observe, 
I  pray,  the  prudence  of  this  blessed  one.  He 
nowhere  says  that  they  are  destitute  of  every- 
thing, but  that  they  are  deficient;  everywhere 
the  words,  "  that  ye  may  be  filled,"  show  this. 
And  again,  "unto  all  pleasing,  in  every  good 
work"  (ver.  n),  and  again,  "strengthened  with 
all  power,"  and  again,  "unto  all  patience  and 
long-suffering";  for  the  constant  addition  of 
"  all "  bears  witness  to  their  doing  well  in  part, 
though,  it  might  be,  not  in  all.  And,  "  that  ye 
may  be  filled,"  he  saith ;  not,  "that  ye  may  re- 
ceive," for  they  had  received ;  but  "  that  ye  may 
be  filled  "  with  what  as  yet  was  lacking.  Thus 
both  the  rebuke  was  given  without  offense,  and 
the  praise  did  not  suffer  them  to  sink  down,  and 
become  supine,  as  if  it  had  been  complete. 
But  what  is,  "that  ye  may  be  filled  with  the 
knowledge  of  His  will  "  ?  That  through  the  Son 
we  should  be  brought  unto  Him,  and  no  mQre 
through  Angels.  Now  that  ye  must  be  brought 
unto  Him,  ye  have  learnt,  but  it  remains  for  you 
to  learn  this,  and  why  He  sent  the  Son.  For 
had  it  been  that  we  were  to  have  been  saved  by 
Angels,1  He  would  not  have  sent  Him,  would 
not  have  given  Him  up.  "  In  all  spiritual  wis- 
dom," he  saith,  "and  understanding."  For  since 
the  philosophers  deceived  them  ;  I  wish  you,  he 

1  It  may  be  asked  how  St.  Chrysostom  could  use  this  argument, 
and  yet  speak  as  he  does  of  the  intercession  of  Saints  (see  the  end  of 
Horn.  vi.  on  the  Statues,  and  note).  The  reason  is,  that  he  viewed 
the  Saints  as  in  the  Kingdom  of  Christ,  and  subordinate;  but  the 
error  here  referred  to  seems  to  have  made  the  Angels  independent  of 
Him,  and  the  means  of  an  approach  to  God  without  reference  to  His 
Atonement.  St.  Augustine  refers  to  such  systems,  De  Civ.  Dei,  lib. 
ix.  is,  ax;  x.  x,  &c. 


saith,  to  be  in  spiritual  wisdom,  not  after  thi 
wisdom  of  men.  But  if  in  order  to  know  th< 
will  of  God,  there  needs  spiritual  wisdom ;  ti 
know  His  Essence  what  it  is,  there  is  need  o 
continual  prayers. 

And  Paul  shows  here,  that  since  that  time  h 
has  been  praying,  and  has  not  yet  prevailed,  am 
yet  has  not  desisted  ;  for  the  words,  "  from  th 
day  we  heard  it,"  show  this.     But  it  implie 
condemnation  to  them,  if,  from  that  time,  eve 
assisted  by  prayers,  they  had  not  amended  then: 
selves.     "And  making  request,"  he  says,  wit 
much  earnestness,  for  this  the  expression  "y 
knew  "  *  shows.     But  it  is  necessary  still  to  kno1 
somewhat  besides.    "  To  walk  worthily,"  he  sayi 
"  of  the  Lord."     Here  he  speaks  of  life  and  il 
works,  for  so  he  doth  also  everywhere :   wit 
faith  he  always  couples  conduct.     "  Unto  a 
pleasing."    And  how,  "  all  pleasing  "  ?     "  Beai 
ing  fruit  in  every  good  work,  and  increasing  i 
the  knowledge  of  God."     Seeing,  saith  he,  H 
hath  fully  revealed  Himself  unto  you,  and  sec 
ing  ye  have  received  knowledge  so  great ;   d 
ye  then  show  forth  a  conduct  worthy  of  th 
faith ;  for  this  needeth  elevated  conduct,  great< 
far  than   the  old   dispensation.     For,  he    th; 
hath   known  God,  and  been  counted   worth 
to   be   God's   servant,  yea,   rather,   even    H 
Son,  see  how  great  virtue  he  needeth.  "  Strengtl 
ened  with  all  power."     He  is  here  speaking  < 
trials  and  persecutions.     We  pray  that  ye  mig] 
be  filled  with  strength,  that  ye  faint  not  for  so 
row,  nor  despair.     "  According  to  the  might  • 
His   glory."     But  that   ye  may  take   up  aga 
such  forwardness  as  it  becometh  the  power 
His  glory  to  give.     "  Unto  all  patience  and  Ion 
suffering."     What  he  saith  is  of  this  sort.     Sur 
marily,  he  saith,  we  pray  that  ye  may  lead  a  li 
of  virtue,  and  worthy  of  your  citizenship,  ai 
may  stand  firmly,  being  strengthened   as   it 
reasonable  to  be  strengthened  by  God.     For  tl 
cause  he  doth  not  as  yet  touch  upon  doctrine 
but  dwells  upon  life,  wherein  he  had  nothing 
charge   them   with,  and   having   praised    the 
where  praise  was  due,  he  then  comes  down 
accusation.      And    this    he    does   everywher 
when  he  is  about  writing  to  any  with  somewh 
to  blame  them  for,  and  somewhat  to  praise, 
first  praises  them,  and  then  comes  down  to  1 
charges.     For   he  first   conciliates   the    hear* 
and  frees  his  accusation  from  all  suspicion,  ai 


2  iyvutrt.    This  is  implied  in  his  wishing  them  "  more  *'  kno 
edge. 


Homily  II.] 


HOMILIES   ON   COLOSSIANS. 


265 


shows  that  for  his  own  part  he  could  have  been 
glad  to  praise  them   throughout;   but   by  the 
necessity  of  the  case  is  forced  into  saying  what 
he  does.    And  so  he  doth  in  the  first1  Epistle  to 
the  Corinthians.     For  after  having  exceedingly 
praised  them  as  loving  him,  even  from  the  case 
of  the  fornicator,  he  comes  down  to  accuse  them. 
But  in  that  to  the  Galatians  not  so,  but  the  re- 
verse.   Yea,  rather,  if  one  should  look  close  into 
it,  even  there  the  accusation  follows  upon  praise. 
For  seeing  he  had  no  good  deeds  of  theirs  then 
to  speak  of,  and  the  charge  was  an  exceeding 
grave  one,  and  they  were  every  one  of  them 
corrupted;   and  were  able  to  bear  it  because 
they  were  strong,  he  begins  with  accusation,  say- 
ing, "  I  marvel."  *    (Gal.  i.  6.)     So  that  this  also 
is  praise.     But  afterwards  he  praises  them,  not 
for  what  they  were,  but  what  they  had  been, 
saying,  "  If  possible,  ye  would  have  plucked  out 
your  eyes,  and  given  them  to  me."    (Gal.  v.  15). 
u  Bearing  fruit,"  he  saith  :  this  hath  reference 
to  works.      "  Strengthened "  :    this    to    trials. 
"  Unto  all  patience  and  longsurTering  "  :   long- 
suffering  towards  one  another,  patience  towards 
those  without.     For  longsurTering  is  toward  those 
whom  we  can  requite,  but  patience  toward  those 
whom  we  cannot.     For   this  reason  the  term 
patient  is  never  applied  to  God,  but  longsurTer- 
ing frequently ;  as  this  same  blessed  one  saith 
otherwhere  in  his  writings,  "  Or  despisest  thou 
the  riches  of  His  goodness,  and  forbearance,  and 
longsurTering  ?  "    "  Unto  all  pleasing."    Not,  one 
while,  and  afterwards  not  so.     "  In  all  spiritual 
wisdom,"  he  saith,  "  and  understanding."     For 
otherwise  it  is  not  possible  to  know  His  will. 
Although  indeed  they  thought  they  had  His  will ; 
but  that  wisdom  was  not  spiritual.     "To  walk," 
saith  he,  "worthily  of  the  Lord."     For  this  is 
the  way  of  the  best  life.      For  he  that   hath 
understood  God's  love  to  man,  (and  he  doth 
understand  it  if  he  have  seen  the  Son  delivered 
up,)  will  have  greater  forwardness.     And  be- 
sides, we  pray  not  for  this  alone  that   ye  may 
bow,  but  that  ye  may  show  forth  your  knowl- 
edge in  works ;  for  he  that  knows  without  doing, 
is  even  in  the  way  to  punishment.     "  To  walk," 
he  saith,  that  is,  always,  not  once,  but  continu- 
ally.   As  to  walk  is  necessary  for  us,  so  also  is 
to  live  rightly.     And  when  on  this  subject  he 
constantly  uses  the  term  "  walk,"  and  with  rea- 
son, showing  that  such  is  the  life  set  before  us. 
But  not  of  this  sort  is  that  of  the  world.     And 
great  too  is  the  praise.     "To  walk,"  he  saith, 
"worthily  of  the  Lord,"  and*"  in  every  good 
work,"  so  as  to  be  always  advancing,  and  no- 
where  standing    still,   and,   with   a    metaphor, 

1  Perhaps  it  should  be  "  second."  [All  documents  read  "  first," 
"W  there  is  really  no  occasion  for  the  conjectural  alteration,  for  the 
**tement  applies  to  the  first,  as  well  as  the  second,  Epistle. — 

1  Vii  St.  Chrys.  in  loo 


"  bearing  fruit  and  increasing  in  the  knowledge 
of  God,"  that  ye  might  be  in  such  measure 
"  strengthened,"  according  to  the  might  of  God, 
as  is  possible  for  man  to  be.  "Through  His 
power,"  great  is  the  consolation.  —  He  said 
not  strength,  but  "power,"  which  is  greater: 
"  through  the  power,"  he  saith,  "  of  His  glory," 
because  that  everywhere  His  glory  hath  the 
power.  He  thus  comforts  him  that  is  under 
reproach  :  and  again,  "  To  walk  worthily  of  the 
Lord."  He  saith  of  the  Son,  that  He  hath  the 
power  everywhere  both  in  heaven  and  in  earth, 
because  His  glory  reigneth  everywhere.  He 
saith  not  "  strengthened "  simply,  but  so,  as 
they  might  be  expected  to  be  who  are  in  the 
service  of  so  strong  a  Master.  "  In  the  knowl- 
edge of  God."  And  at  the  same  time  he  touches 
in  passing  upon  the  methods  of  knowledge  ;  for 
this  is  to  be  in  error,  not  to  know  God  as  one 
ought ;  or  he  means,  so  as  to  increase  in  the 
knowledge  of  God.  For  if  he  that  hath  not 
known  die  Son,  knoweth  not  the  Father  either ; 
justly  is  there  need  of  increased 8  knowledge  :  for 
there  is  no  use  in  life  without  this.  "  Unto  aD 
patience  and  longsurTering,"  he  saith,  "  with  joy, 
giving  thanks  "  (ver.  12)  unto  God.  Then  be- 
ing about  to  exhort  them,  he  makes  no  mention 
of  what  by  and  by  shall  be  laid  up  for  them  ;  he 
did  hint  at  this  however  in  the  beginning  of  the 
Epistle,  saying,  "  Because  of  the  hope  which  is 
laid  up  for  you  in  the  heavens"  (ver.  5)  :  but  in 
this  place  he  mentions  the  things  which  were 
already  theirs,  for  these  are  the  causes  of  the 
other.  And  he  doth  the  same  in  many  places. 
For  that  which  hath  already  come  to  pass  gains 
belief,  and  more  carries  the  hearer  along  with  it. 
"  With  joy,"  he  saith,  "  giving  thanks  "  to  God. 
The  connection  is  this.  We  cease  not  praying 
for  you,  and  giving  thanks  for  the  benefits  al- 
ready received. 

Seest  thou  how  he  bears  himself  along  into 
speaking  of  the  Son  ?  For  if  "  we  give  thanks 
with  much  joy,"  it  is  a  great  thing  that  is  spoken 
of.  For  it  is  possible  to  give  thanks  only  from 
fear,  it  is  possible  to  give  thanks  even  when  in 
sorrow.  For  instance  ;  Job  gave  thanks  indeed, 
but  in  anguish  ;  and  he  said,  "  The  Lord  gave,  the 
Lord  hath  taken  away."  (Job  i.  2 1 .)  For,  let  not 
any  say  that  what  had  come  to  pass  pained  him 
not,  nor  clothed  him  with  dejection  of  soul ;  nor 
let  his  great  praise  be  taken  away  from  that  right- 
eous one.  But  when  it  is  thus,  it  is  not  for  fear, 
nor  because  of  His  being  Lord  alone,  but  for 
the  very  nature  of  the  things  themselves,  that 
we  give  thanks.  "To  Him  who  made  us  meet 
to  be  partakers  of  the  inheritance  of  the  saints 
in  light."     He  hath  said  a  great  thing.     What 

8  [The  apostle's  word  rendered  "  knowledge "  is  eiriyvuto-tc, 
which  etymologically  signifies  additional  or  full  knowledge,  and 
often  has  distinctively  that  sense.  — J.  A.  B.] 


266 


WORKS   OF   ST.    CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  : 


has  been  given,  he  saith,  is  of  this  nature ;  He 
hath  not  only  given,  but  also  made  us  strong  to 
receive.  Now  by  saying,  "  Who  made  us  meet," 
he  showed  that  the  thing  was  one  of  great 
weight.  For  example,  were  some  low  person  to 
have  become  a  king,  he  hath  it  in  his  power  to 
give  a  governorship  to  whom  he  will ;  and  this 
is  the  extent  of  his  power,  to  give  the  dignity : 
he  cannot  also  make  the  person  fit  for  the  office, 
and  oftentimes  the  honor  makes  one  so  pre- 
ferred even  ridiculous.  If  however  he  have  both 
conferred  on  one  the  dignity,  and  also  made  him 
fit  for  the  honor,  and  equal  to  the  administra- 
tion, then  indeed  the  thing  is  an  honor.  This 
then  is  what  he  also  saith  here ;  that  He  hath 
not  only  given  us  the  honor,  but  hath  also 
made  us  strong  enough  to  receive  it. 

For  the  honor  here  is  twofold,  the  giving,  and 
the  making  fit  for  the  gift.  He  said  not,  gave, 
simply ;  but,  "  made  us  meet  to  be  partakers  of 
the  inheritance  of  the  saints  in  light/'  that  is, 
who  hath  appointed  us  a  place  with  the  saints. 
But  he  did  not  say  simply  placed  us,  but  hath 
given  us  to  enjoy  even  the  very  same  things,  for 
"  the  portion  "Ms  that  which  each  one  receives. 
For  it  is  possible  to  be  in  the  same  city,  and  yet 
not  enjoy  the  same  things;  but  to  have  the 
same  "  portion,"  and  yet  not  enjoy  the  same,  is 
impossible.  It  is  possible  to  be  in  the  same  in- 
heritance, and  yet  not  to  have  the  same  portion ; 
for  instance,  all  we  (clergy)  are  in  the  inheri- 
tance,2 but  we  have  not  all  the  same  portion.8 
But  here  he  doth  not  say  this,  but  with  the  in- 
heritance adds  the  portion  also.  But  why  doth 
he  call  it  inheritance  (or  lot)  ?  To  show  that 
by  his  own  achievements  no  one  obtains  the 
kingdom,  but  as  a  lot4  is  rather  the  result  of 
good  luck,5  so  in  truth  is  it  here  also.  For  a  life 
so  good  as  to  be  counted  worthy  of  the  king- 
dom doth  no  one  show  forth,  but  the  whole  is 
of  His  free  gift.  Therefore  He  saith,  "When 
ye  have  done  all,  say,  We  are  unprofitable  ser- 
vants, for  we  have  done  that  which  was  our  duty 
to  do."  (Lukexvii.  10.)  "To  be  partakers  of  the 
inheritance  of  the  saints  in  light,"  —  he  means, 
both  the  future  and  rfie  present  light,6  —  that  is, 
in  knowledge.  He  seems  to  me  to  be  speaking 
at  once  of  both  the  present  and  the  future. 
Then  he  shows  of  what  things  we  have  been 
counted  worthy.     For  this  is  not  the  only  mar- 

1  ["  To  be  partakers"  is,  literally, "  for  the  portion."  — J.  A.  B.] 

*  JtAjjpw.  *  fiepiia. 

*  [«Aijpo«  signifies  "  lot,"  '•  inheritance,"  &c.  From  the  notion 
that  Christian  ministers  were  the  lord's  heritage  (like  the  tribe  of 
Levi)  came  the  application  to  them  of  the  terms  clems,  clerici, 
whence  clergy,  clerk,  &c  —  J.  A.  B.] 

6  The  whole  passage  shows  that  he  uses  this  word  merely  to  im- 
ply man's  insufficiency,  and  not  at  all  to  introduce  the  notion  of 
chance  as  opposed  to  Divine  agency.  He  constantly  uses  the  word 
at  the  end  of  his  Homilies,  as  well  as  a^uadrjvai,  "  to  be  thought 
worthy,"  to  show  at  once  the  necessity  of  good  works,  and  our  un- 
worthmess  after  all. 

6  [This  clause  Field  restores  from  several  MSS.  and  the  Catena. 
The  substantial  repetition  of  it  just  after  is  characteristic.  — J.  A.  B.J 


vel,  that  we  are  counted  worthy  of  the  kingdon 
but  it  should  also  be  added  who  we  are  that  a 
so  counted ;  for  it  is  not  unimportant.  And  ! 
doth  this  in  the  Epistle  to  the  Romans,  sayir 
"  For  scarcely  for  a  righteous 7  man  will  one  d 
but  peradventure  for  the  good  man  some  o 
would  even  dare  to  die."     (Rom.  v.  7.) 

Ver.  13.  "  Who  delivered  us,"  he  saith,  "  frc 
the  power  of  darkness." 

The  whole  is  of  Him,  the  giving  both  of  the 
things  and  those ;  for  nowhere  is  any  achie\ 
ment  of  ours.  "  From  the  power  of  darkness 
he  saith,  that  is,  of  error,  the  dominion  of  t 
devil.  He  said  not  "  darkness,"  but  "  power 
for  it  had  great  power  over  us,  and  held  us  fa 
For  it  is  grievous  indeed  even  to  be  under  t 
devil  at  all,  but  to  be  so  "  with  power,"  this 
far  more  grievous.  "  And  translated  us," 
saith,  "into  the*  kingdom  of  the  Son  of  F 
love."  Not  then  so  as  to  deliver  man  frc 
darkness  only,  did  He  show  His  love  towa 
him.  A  great  thing  indeed  is  it  to  have  del: 
ered  from  darkness  even ;  but  to  have  broug 
into  a  kingdom  too,  is  a  far  greater.  See  th 
how  manifold  the  gift,  that  he  hath  delivered 
who  lay  in  the  pit;  in  the  second  place,  tr 
He  hath  not  only  delivered  us,  but  also  ha 
translated  us  into  a  kingdom.  "  Who  deliver 
us."  He  said  not,  hath  sent  us  forth,  but  "  t 
livered  "  :  showing  our  great  misery,  and  the: 
capture  of  us.  Then  to  show  also  the  ease  wi 
which  the  power  of  God  works,  he  saith,  "  Ai 
translated  us,"  just  as  if  one  were  to  lead  o\ 
a  soldier  from  one  position  to  another.  A] 
he  said  not,  "  hath  led  over " ;  nor  yet  "  ha 
transposed,"  for  so  the  whole  would  be  of  h: 
who  transposed,  nothing  of  him  who  went  ove 
but  he  said,  "  translated  " y ;  so  that  it  is  both 
us  and  of  Him.  "  Into  the  kingdom  of  the  Son 
His  love."  He  said  not  simply,  "  the  kingdc 
of  heaven,"  but  gave  a  grandeur  to  his  discourse 
saying,  "The  kingdom  of  the  Son,"  for  no  pra 
can  be  greater  than  this,  as  he  saith  elsewhc 
also :  "  If  we  endure,  we  shall  also  reign  w 
Him."  (2  Tim.  ii.  12.)  He  hath  counted 
worthy  of  the  same  things  with  the  Son ;  a 
not  only  so,  but  what  gives  it  greater  force,  w 
His  Beloved  Son.10  Those  that  were  enemi 
those  that  were  in  darkness,  as  it  were  on 
sudden  he  had  translated  to  where  the  Son 
to  the  same  honor  with  Him.  Nor  was  he  cc 
tent  with  only  this,  in  order  to  show  the  gre; 
ness  of  the  gift ;  he  was  not  content  with  sayir 
"  kingdom,"  but  he  also  added,  "  of  the  Son 
nor  yet  with  this,  but  he  added  also  "  beloved 

7  clBikov,  2  [4]  MSS.  and  Sav.  marg.  St.  Chrys.  docs  not,  ht 
ever,  read  so  on  the  passage.     Horn.  ix.  on  Ep.  to  Romans. 

*  i.e.  the  devils',  ai^fiaXoi<rtav. 

0  /uL«T«<TTTj<rf.  The  word  in  Heb.  xi.  3,  is  iJurtriOt],  which  agr 
with  this  criticism. 

10  [««  The  Son  of  His  love"  really  means  greatly  more  than  "  1 
Beloved  Son."    See  Lightfoot  on  Col.  —  J.  A.  B.J 


Homily  II.] 


HOMILIES   ON   COLOSSIANS. 


267 


nor  yet  with  this,  but  he  added  yet,  the  dignity 
of  His  nature.  For  what  saith  he  ?  "  Who  is 
the  Image  of  the  invisible  God."  But  he  pro- 
ceeded not  to  say  this  immediately,  but  mean- 
while inserted  the  benefit  which  He  bestowed 
upon  us.  For  lest,  when  thou  nearest  that  the 
whole  is  of  the  Father,  thou  shouldest  suppose 
the  Son  excluded,  he  ascribes  the  whole  to  the 
Son,  and  the  whole  to  the  Father.  For  He  in- 
deed translated  us,  but  the  Son  furnished  the 
cause.  For  what  saith  he?  "Who  delivered 
us  out  of  the  power  of  darkness."  But  the 
same  is, "  In  whom  we  have  the  full  redemption, 
even  the  forgiveness  of  sins."  For  had  we  not 
been  forgiven  our  sins,  we  should  not  have  been 
"translated."  So  here  again  the  words,  "In 
whom."  And  he  said  not  "redemption,"  but 
"  full  redemption,"  so  that  we  shall  not  fall  any 
more,  nor  become  liable  to  death. 

Ver.  15.  "Who  is  the  image  of  the  invisible 
God,  the  First-born  of  all  creation." 

We  light  here  upon  a  question  of  heresy.  So 
it  were  well  we  should  put  it  off  to-day  and  pro- 
ceed with  it  to-morrow,  addressing  it  to  your 
ears  when  they  are  fresh. 

But  if  one  ought  to  say  anything  more  :  the 
work  of  the  Son  is  the  greater.  How  ?  Because 
it  were  a  thing  impossible  to  give  the  kingdom 
to  men  whilst  continuing  in  their  sins  ;  but  thus 
it  is  an  easier  thing,  so  that  He  prepared  the 
way  for  the  gift.  What  sayest  thou  ?  He  Him- 
self loosed  thee  from  thy  sins :  surely  then  He 
Himself  also  hath  brought  thee  nigh ;  already 
he  has  laid  by  anticipation  the  foundation  of 
his  doctrine. 

But  we  must  put  a  close  to  this  discourse, 
when  first  we  have  made  one  remark.  And  what 
is  this?  Seeing  we  have  come  to  enjoy  so  great 
a  benefit,  we  ought  to  be  ever  mindful  of  it,  and 
continually  to  turn  in  our  minds  the  free  gift  of 
God,  and  to  reflect  upon  what  we  have  been 
delivered  from,  what  we  have  obtained;  and 
so  we  shall  be  thankful ;  so  we  shall  heighten 
our  love  toward  Him.  What  sayest  thou,  O 
nan?  Thou  art  called  to  a  kingdom,  to  the 
lungdom  of  the  Son  of  God  —  and  art  thou  full 
°f  yawning,  and  scratching,  and  dozing?  If  need 
were  that  thou  shouldest  leap  into  ten  thousand 
deaths  every  day,  oughtest  thou  not  to  endure 
all?  For  the  sake  of  office  thou  doest  all 
tanner  of  things;  when  then  thou  art  going 
to  share  the  kingdom  of  the  Only- Begotten, 
wilt  thou  not  spring  down  upon  ten  thousand 
swords?  wouldest  thou  not  leap  into  fire?  And 
tius  is  not  all  that  is  strange,  but  that  when 
about  to  depart  even,  thou  bewailest,  and 
wouldest  gladly  dwell  amongst  the  things  which 
***  here,  being  a  lover  of  the  body.  What 
fcacy  is  this?  Dost  thou  regard  even  death  as 
a  thing  of  terror?    The  cause  of  this  is  luxury, 


ease  :  for  he  at  least  that  should  live  an  embit- 
tered life  would  wish  even  for  wings,  and  to  be 
loosed  from  hence.  But  now  it  is  the  same  with 
us  as  with  the  spoiled  nestlings,  which  would 
willingly  remain  for  ever  in  the  nest.  But  the 
longer  they  remain,  the  feebler  they  become. 
For  the  present  life  is  a  nest  cemented  together 
with  sticks  and  mire.  Yea,  shouldest  thou  show 
me  even  the  great  mansions,  yea  the  royal  palace 
itself  glittering  with  all  its  gold  and  precious 
stones ;  I  shall  think  them  no  better  than  the 
nests  of  swallows,  for  when  the  winter  is  come 
they  will  all  fall  of  themselves.  By  winter  I 
mean  That  Day,  not  that  it  will  be  a  winter  to 
all.  For  God  also  calleth  it  both  night  and  day ; 
the  first  in  regard  of  sinners,  the  latter  of  the 
just.  So  do  I  also  now  call  it  winter.  If  in  the 
summer  we  have  not  been  well  brought  up,  so 
as  to  be  able  to  fly  when  winter  is  come,  our 
mothers  will  not  take  us,  but  will  leave  us  to  die 
of  hunger,  or  to  perish  when  the  nest  falls ;  for 
easily  as  it  were  a  nest,  or  rather  more  easily, 
will  God  in  that  day  remove  all  things,  undoing 
and  new  molding  all.  But  they  which  are 
unfledged,  and  not  able  to  meet  Him  in  the  air, 
but  have  been  so  grossly  brought  up  that  they 
have  no  lightness  of  wing,  will  suffer  those  things 
which  reason  is  such  characters  should  suffer. 
Now  the  brood  of  swallows,  when  they  are  fallen, 
perish  quickly ;  but  we  shall  not  perish,  but  be 
punished  for  ever.  That  season  will  be  winter ; 
or  rather,  more  severe  than  winter.  For,  not 
winter  torrents  of  water  roll  down,  but  rivers  of 
fire ;  not  darkness  that  riseth  from  clouds  is 
there,  but  darkness  that  cannot  be  dispelled, 
and  without  a  ray  of  light,  so  that  they  cannot 
see  either  the  heaven,  or  the  air,  but  are  more 
straitened  than  those  who  have  been  buried  in 
the  earth. 

Oftentimes  do  we  say  these  things,  but  there 
are  whom  we  cannot  bring  to  believe.  But  it  is 
nothing  wonderful  if  we,  men  of  small  account, 
are  thus  treated,  when  we  discourse  of  such 
things,  since  the  same  happened  to  the  Prophets 
also  ;  when  they  spoke  not  of  such  matters  only, 
but  also  of  war  and  captivity.  (Jer.  xxi.  11; 
xxvii.  12,  &c.)  And  Zedekiah  was  rebuked  by 
Jeremiah,  and  was  not  ashamed.  Therefore  the 
Prophets  said,  "Woe  unto  them  that  say,  Let 
God  hasten  with  speed  His  work,  that  we  may 
see  it,  and  let  the  counsel  of  the  Holy  One  of 
Israel  come,  that  we  may  know  it."  (Isa.  v.  18, 
19.)  Let  us  not  wonder  at  this.  For  neither 
did  those  believe  who  were  in  the  days  of  the 
ark ;  they  believed,  however,  when  their  belief 
was  of  no  gain  to  them  ;  neither  did  they  of 
Sodom  expect  [their  fate],  howbeit  they  too 
believed,  when  they  gained  nothing  by  believing. 
And  why  do  I  speak  of  the  future  ?  Who  would 
have  expected  these  things  which  are  now  hap- 


268 


WORKS   OF   ST.   CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  II. 


pening  in  divers  places;  these  earthquakes, 
these  overthrows  of  cities  ?  And  yet  were  these 
things  easier  to  believe  than  those;  those,  I 
mean,  which  happened  in  the  days  of  .the  ark. 

Whence  is  this  evident?  Because  that  the 
men  of  those  times  had  no  other  example  to 
look  at,  neither  had  they  heard  the  Scriptures, 
but  with  us,  on  the  other  hand,  are  countless 
instances  that  have  happened  both  in  our  own, 
and  in  former  years.  But  whence  arose  the 
unbelief  of  these  persons?  From  a  softened 
soul;  they  drank  and  ate,  and  therefore  they 
believed  not.  For,  what  a  man  wishes,  he 
thinks,  and  expects ;  and  they  that  gainsay  him 
are  a  jest. 

But  let  it  not  be  so  with  us ;  for  hereafter  it 
will  not  be  a  flood;  nor  the  punishment  till 
death  only ;  but  death  will  be  the  beginning  of 
punishment  for  persons  who  believe  not  that 
there  is  a  Judgment.  And  doth  any  ask,  who 
has  come  from  thence,  and  said  so?  If  now 
thou  speakest  thus  in  jest,  not  even  so  is  it  well ; 
for  one  ought  not  to  jest  in  such  matters ;  and 
we  jest,  not  where  jesting  is  in  place,  but  with 
peril ;  but  if  what  thou  really  feelest,  and  thou 
art  of  opinion  that  there  is  nothing  hereafter, 
how  is  it  that  thou  callest  thyself  a  Christian? 
For  I  take  not  into  account  those  who  are 
without.  Why  receivest  thou  the  Laver  ?  Why 
dost  thou  set  foot  within  the  Church?  Is  it 
that  we  promise  thee  magistracies?  All  our 
hope  is  in  the  things  to  come.  Why  then 
comest  thou,  if  thou  believest  not  the  Scrip- 
tures? If  thou  dost  not  believe  Christ,  I  can- 
not call  such  an  one  a  Christian ;  God  forbid  ! 
but  worse  than  even  Greeks.  In  what  respect? 
In  this ;  that  when  thou  thinkest  Christ  is  God, 
thou  believest  Him  not  as  God.  For  in  that 
other  impiety  there  is  at  least  consistency ;  for 
he  who  thinks  not  that  Christ  is  God,  neces- 
sarily will  also  not  believe  Him  ;  but  this 
impiety  has  not  even  consistency;  to  confess 
Him  to  be  God,  and  yet  not  to  think  Him 
worthy  of  belief  in  what  He  has  said  ;  these  are 
the  words  of  drunkenness,  of  luxury,  of  riot. 
"  Let  us  eat  and  drink,  for  to-morrow  we  die." 
(i  Cor.  xv.  32.)  Not  to-morrow;  but  now  ye 
are  dead,  when  ye  thus  speak.  Shall  we  then  be 
in  nothing  different  from  swine  and  asses?  tell 
me.  For  if  there  be  neither  a  judgment,  nor  a 
retribution,  nor  a  tribunal,  wherefore  have  we 
been  honored  with  such  a  gift  as  reason,  and 
have  all  things  put  under  us  ?  Why  do  we  rule, 
and  are  they  ruled?  See  how  the  devil  is  on 
every  side  urgent  to  persuade  us  to  be  ignorant 
of  the  Gift  of  God.  He  mixes  together  the 
slaves  with  their  masters,  like  some  man-stealer ! 
and  ungrateful  servant ;  he  strives  to  degrade 

1  ap£patro£t<rrijft  one  who  steals  freemen  for  slaves.     [Literally, 
"enslaver"  (1  Tim.  i.  10).- J.  A.  B.] 


the  free  to  the  level  of  the  criminal.  And  he 
seems  indeed  to  be  overthrowing  the  Judgment, 
but  he  is  overthrowing  the  being  of  God. 

For  such  is  ever  the  devil's  way  ;  he  puts  for- 
ward everything  in  a  wily,  and  not  in  a  straight- 
forward manner,  to  put  us  on  our  guard.     If 
there  is  no  Judgment,  God  is  not  just  (I  speak 
as  a  man)  :  if  God  is  not  just,  then  there  is  no 
God  at  all :  if  there  is  no  God,  all  things  go  on 
at  haphazard,  virtue  is  nought,  vice  nought.    But 
he  says  nothing  of  this  openly.     Seest  thou  the 
drift  of  this  satanical  argument  ?  how,  instead  of 
men,  he  wishes  to  make  us  brutes,  or  rather, 
wild  beasts,  or  rather,  demons?     Let  us  then 
not  be  persuaded  by  him.     For  there  is  a  Judg- 
ment, O  wretched  and  miserable  man  !     I  know 
whence  thou  comest  to  use  such  words.     Thou 
hast  committed  many  sins,  thou  hast  offended, 
thou  hast  no  confidence,  thou  thinkest  that  the 
nature  of  things  will  even  follow  thy  arguments. 
Meanwhile,  saith  he,  I  will  not  torment  my  soul 
with  the  expectation  of  hell,  and,  if  there  be  a  hell, 
I  will  persuade  it  that  there  is  none  ;  meanwhile 
I  will  live  here  in  luxury  !     Why  dost  thou  add 
sin  to  sin?    If  when  thou  hast  sinned  thou  be- 
lievest that  there  is  a  hell,  thou  wilt  depart  with 
the  penalty  of  thy  sins  only  to  pay ;  but  if  thou 
add  this  further  impiety,  thou  wilt  also  for  thine 
impiety,  and  for  this  thy  thought,  suffer  the  ut- 
termost punishment ;  and  what  was  a  cold  and 
shortlived  comfort  to  thee,  will  be  a  ground  for 
thy  being  punished  for  ever.     Thou  hast  sinned  : 
be  it  so :  why  dost  thou  encourage  others  also 
to  sin,  by  saying  that  there  is  no  hell?     Why 
didst   thou   mislead    the    simpler   sort?     Why 
unnerve  the  hands  of  the  people?    So  far  as 
thou  art  concerned,  everything  is  turned  upside 
down ;  neither  will  the  good  become  better,  but 
listless ;  nor  the  wicked  desist  from  their  wicked- 
ness.    For,  if  we  corrupt  others,  do  we  get  al- 
lowance for  our  sins  ?    Seest  thou  not  the  devil, 
how  he  attempted  to  bring  down  Adam  ?     And 
has  there  then  been  allowance  for  him  ?     Nay, 
surely  it  will  be  the  occasion  of  a  greater  punish- 
ment, that  he  may  be  punished  not  for  his  own 
sins  only,  but  also  for  those  of  others.     Let  us 
not  then  suppose  that  to  bring  down  others  into 
the  same  destruction  with  ourselves  will   make 
the  Judgment-seat  more  lenient  to  us.     Surely 
this  will  make  it  more  severe.     Why  thrust  we 
ourselves  on  destruction?     The  whole    of  this 
cometh  of  Satan. 

O  man,  hast  thou  sinned  ?  Thou  hast  for  thy 
Master  One  that  loveth  man.  Entreat,  implore, 
weep,  groan ;  and  terrify  others,  and  pray  them 
that  they  fall  not  into  the  same.  If  in  a  house 
some  servant,  of  those  that  had  offended  their 
master,  says  to  his  son,  "  My  child,  I  have  of- 
fended the  master,  do  thou  be  careful  to  please 
him,  that  thou  be  not  as  I " :  tell  me,  will  he 


Homily  LL] 


HOMILIES  ON   COLOSSIANS. 


269 


not  have  some  forgiveness  ?  will  he  not  bend  and 
soften  his  master?  But  if,  leaving  so  to  speak, 
he  shall  say  such  words  as  these,  that  he 1  will 
not  requite  every  one  according  to  his  deserts ; 
that  all  things  are  jumbled  together  indiscrimi- 
nately, both  good  and  bad ;  that  there  is  no 
thanks  in  this  house  ;  what  thinkest  thou  will  be 
the  master's  mind  concerning  him?  will  he  not 
suffer  a  severer  punishment  for  his  own  misdo- 
ings? Justly  so ;  for  in  the  former  case  his  feel- 
ing will  plead  for  him,  though  it  be  but  weakly ; 
but  in  this,  nobody.  If  no  other  then,  yet  imi- 
tate at  least  that  rich  man  in  hell,2  who  said, 
"  Father  Abraham,  send  to  my  kinsmen,  lest  they 
come  into  this  place,"  since  he  could  not  go  him- 
self, so  that  they  might  not  fall  into  the  same 
condemnation.  Let  us  have  done  with  such 
Satanical  words. 

What  then,  saith  he,  when  the  Greeks  put 
questions  to  us;   wouldest   thou   not  that  we 
should  try  to  cure8  them?    But  by  casting  the 
Christian   into    perplexity,   under   pretense    of 
curing  the  Greek,  thou  aimest  at  establishing 
thy  Satanical  doctrine.     For  since,  when  com- 
muning with  thy  soul  alone   of  these  things, 
thou  persuadest  her  not ;  thou  desirest  to  bring 
forward  others  as  witnesses.    But  if  one  must 
reason  with  a  Greek,  the  discussion  should  not 
begin  with  this ;  but  whether  Christ  be  God, 
and  the  Son  of  God ;  whether  those  gods  of 
theirs  be  demons.     If  these  points  be  estab- 
lished, all  the  others  follow ;  but,  before  making 
good  the  beginning,  it  is  vain  to  dispute  about 
the  end ;  before  learning  the  first  elements,  it  is 
superfluous  and  unprofitable   to  come  to  the 
conclusion.    The  Greek  disbelieves  the  Judg- 
ment, and  he  is  in  the  same  case  with  thyself, 
seeing  that  he  too  hath  many  who  have  treated 
these  things  in  their  philosophy;   and  albeit 
when  they  so  spoke  they  held  the  soul  as  sepa- 
rated from  the  body,  still  they  set  up  a  seat  of 
judgment.    And  the  thing  is  so  very  clear,  that 
no  one  scarcely  is  ignorant  of  it,  but  both  poets 
and  all  are  agreed  among  themselves  that  there 
is  both  a  Tribunal  and  a  Judgment.     So  that 
the  Greek  also  disbelieves4  his  own  authorities ; 
and  the  Jew  doth  not  doubt  about  these  things, 
nor  in  a  word  doth  any  man. 

Why  then  deceive  we  ourselves?  See,  thou 
sayest  these  things  to  me.  What  wilt  thou  say 
to  God,  "that  fashioned  our  hearts  one  by 
one  "*  (Ps.  xxxiii.  15)  ;  that  knoweth  everything 
that  is  in  the  mind ;  "  that  is  living  and  active, 

1  The  master.  "  yttwj). 

•  ftpcureiMtr.  As  we  say,  familiarly,  ••  doctor  them."  The  term 
*u  commonly  used.  Theodoret  has  a  treatise  called,  "  The  Rem- 
edy of  Greektsh  affections."  Here  it  is  "  humor  them  "  by  palata- 
ble doctrine. 

•  [Various  documents  have  "  does  not  disbelieve,"  through  failing 
to  observe  that  it  means  the  Greek  above  mentioned,  and  that  the 
expression  changes  with  the  next  clause  as  to  the  Jew.  —J.  A.  B.l 

•  w«fMhr«f ,  Sept.    E.  V.  ••alike." 


and  sharper  than  any  two-edged  sword  "  ?  (Heb. 
iv.  12.)  For  tell  me  with  truth  ;  Dost  thou  not 
condemn  thyself?  And  how  should  'wisdom  so 
great,  as  that  one  who  sins  should  condemn 
himself,  come  by  chance,  for  this  is  a  work  of 
mighty  wisdom.  Thou  condemnest  thyself.  And 
will  he  who  giveth  thee  such  thoughts  leave 
everything  to  go  on  at  hazard  ?  The  following 
rule  then  will  hold  universally  and  strictly.  Not 
one  of  those  who  live  in  virtue  wholly  disbe- 
lieves the  doctrine  of  the  Judgment,  even 
though  he  be  Greek  or  heretic.  None,  save 
a  few,  of  those  who  live  in  great  wickedness, 
receives  the  doctrine  of  the  Resurrection.  And 
this  is  what  the  Psalmist  says,  "  Thy  judgments 
are  taken  away  from  before  his  face."  (Ps.  x.  5.) 
Wherefore  ?  Because  "  his  ways  are  always  pro- 
fane " ;  for  he  saith,  "  Let  us  eat  and  drink,  for 
to-morrow  we  die." 

Seest  thou  that  thus  to  speak  is  the  mark  of 
the  grovelling?  Of  eating  and  drinking  come 
these  sayings  which  are  subversive  of  the  Resur- 
rection. For  the  soul  endures  not,  I  say,  it  en- 
dures not  the  tribunal  which  the  conscience 
supplieth,  and  so  it  is  with  it,  as  with  a  mur- 
derer, who  firsts  suggests  to  himself  that  he  shall 
not  be  detected,  and  so  goes  on  to  slay;  for 
had  his  conscience  been  his  judge,  he  would 
not  hastily  have  come  to  that  daring  wickedness. 
And  still  he  knows,  and  pretends  not  to  know, 
lest  he  should  be  tortured  by  conscience  and 
fear,  for,  certainly,  in  that  case,  he  would  have 
been  less  resolute  for  the  daring  deed.  So  too, 
assuredly,  they  who  sin,  and  day  by  day  wallow 
in  the  same  wickedness,  are  unwilling  to  know 
it,  although  their  consciences  pluck  at  them. 

But  let  us  give  no  heed  to  such  persons,  for 
there  will  be,  there  will  assuredly  be,  \  Judg- 
ment and  a  Resurrection,  and  God  will  not  leave 
so  great  works  without  direction.  Wherefore,  I 
beseech  you,  let  us  leave  off  wickedness,  and 
lay  fast  hold  on  virtue,  that  we  may  receive  the 
true  doctrine  in  Christ  Jesus  our  Lord.  And 
yet,  which  is  easier  to  receive  ?  the  doctrine  of 
the  Resurrection,  or  that  of  Fate  ?  The  latter  is 
full  of  injustice,  of  absurdity ,/of  cruelty,  of  in- 
humanity ;  the  other  of  righteousness,  awarding 
according  to  desert ;  and  still  men  do  not  re- 
ceive it.  But  the  fault  is,  indolence,  for  no  one 
that  hath  understanding  receives  the  other.  For 
amongst  the  Greeks  even,  they  who  did  receive 
that  doctrine,  were  those  who  in  their  definition 
of  pleasure  affirmed  it  to  be  the  "  end,"  but 
they  who  loved  virtue,  would  not  receive  it,  but 
they  cast  it  out  as  absurd.  But  if  among  the 
Greeks  this  were  so,  much  more  will  it  hold  good 
with  the  doctrine  of  the  Resurrection.  And 
observe,  I  pray  you,  how  the  devil  hath  estab- 
lished two  contrary  things  :  for  in  order  that  we 
may  neglect  virtue ;  and  pay  honor  to  demons, 


270 


WORKS   OF  ST.   CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  III. 


he  brought  in  this  Necessity,  and  by  means  of 
each  he  procured  the  belief  of  both.  What  rea- 
son then  will  he  be  able  to  give,  who  obstinately 
disbelieves  a  thing  so  admirable,  and  is  per- 
suaded by  those  who  talk  so  idly  ?    Do  not  then 


support  thyself  with  the  consolation,  that  thou 
wilt  meet  with  forgiveness  ;  but  let  us,  collecting 
all  our  strength,  s.tir  ourselves  up  to  virtue,  and 
let  us  live  truly  to  God,  in  Christ  Jesus  our 
Lord,  &c. 


HOMILY   III. 

COLOSSIANS  i.  15-18. 

"  Who  is  the  Image  of  the  invisible  God,  the  Firstborn  of  possible  ;  for  human  art  fails  in  many  respects, 

all  creation:  for  in  Him  were  all  things  created,  in  or  rather  fails  in  ^   if  you  examine  with  accu- 

the  heavens,  and  upon  the  earth,  things  visible  and  _,             t>  _     _         ^    j    •     _u 

things  invisible,  whether   thrones  or  dominions  or  *»&■     But  where  G^  ls>  -««  ls  no  error.  no 

principalities  or  powers :  all  things  have  been  created  failure. 

through  Him,  and  unto  Him;  and  He  is  before  all  But  if  a  creature  :  how  is  He  the  Image  of 

things,  and  in  Him  all  things  consist.    And  He  is  the  Creator  ?    For  neither  is  a  horse  the  image 

the  head  of  the  body,  the  Church."  of  ft  man        jf  „  the  jmage  „  mean  nQt   exact 

rr,           ._  .                   c           4.           *u    j  u.  likeness  to  the  Invisible,  what  hinders  the  Angels 

To-day  it  is  necessary  for  me  to  pay  the  debt  ^      f        ^  Hfe  ^       ?   f     ^            * 

which  yesterday  I  deferred,  in  order  that  I  might  {miM      ^         oneTnother :  but  the  soul 

address  it  to  your  minds  when  m  fall  force.  fa  invi  Jbj      b     ^          .   .   myi  iW     .   fa  ^. 

Paul  discoursing  as  we  showed  of  the  dignity  ,          h                        image,  and  not  in  such 

_of  the  Son,  says  these  words:  « Who  is  the  ^rt  ^  he  and  angels  are  irZages.* 

Image  of  the  invisible  God.      Whose  image  then  „  The   pi     ^     f  ^  Rattan.,,     ««  vvhat 

wilt  thou  have  Him  be?    Gods?    Then  he  ,s  ft          ^            UJ^   He    .          creature.» 

exactly  like  the  one  to  whom  you  assign  Him.  Whe'nce?  tell  me<     because   he  said  'first- 

For  ,f  as  a  man's  image  say  so,  and  I  will  have  ^ ,  „     Ho            he  tM  not  „  first  created,» 

done  with  you  as  a  madman.     But  if  as  God  ^  „ firstborn..    ^en  it  is  reasonable  that  he 

and  God's  Son,  God's  image,  he  shows  the  exact  shou,d  be  ^^             tWn          For  he  must 

likeness     Wherefore  hath  no  Angel  anywhere  d     ^     „  d     brother'«m  ^  things.»    (Heb. 

been  called  either  "  image     or  "  son,"  but  man  ;.     „  x     A„A  _,_,  __.._f  «.0i^  /■.„__  u:*  u-    k_:-„- 

,    _,  ->    iin.      r      -.    -n            •    __    r  n.  17.)    And  we  must  take  from  Him  His  being 

both?    Wherefore?    Because  in  the  former  case  n'¥'.  „_j  •    •  fr  *k#1«.  -_:+k_- :„  ,1;,™;*,,  ™t 

.  j     ,  _,           ,_   ,           r  _,    .         _,           .  ,  _  Creator ;  and  insist  that  neither  in  dignity  nor 

indeed  the  exaltedness  of  their  nature   might  .    „_,„  JLu—  *u:««  ;-  t_t„  M,~_-:,>-  ♦-.  ,f<o     a-,i 

&  in  any  other  thing  is  He  superior  to  us  ?    And 

who  that  hath  understanding  would  say  this? 

.j        r           .__        .    .   ...          ,     .,,  For  the  word  "firstborn"  is  not  expressive  of 

is  a  pledge  of  security  against  this,  and  will  no  d-     >     ^  h          nQr  of         hi      £e,  ta    rf 

allow  any,  even  should  they  desire  it,  to  suspect  ^  ^       what,doeg  «  the  firstborn  "signify? 

anything  of  the r  kind,  nor  to  bring  down  the  That  h\  created  fc  ft    answer      Wd*     *f 

Word  so  low     For  this  cause  where  the  mean-  ^      ^  be        .   has  alsQ  ^^  expressions. 

ness  is  great  the  Scnpture  boldly  asserts  the  But  otherwise  the  firstborn  is  of  the  same  essence 

honor,  but  where  the  nature  is  higher   it  for-  ^  those  rf  whom  he  fa  firstbom      Therefore 

bears.     «  Hie  Image  of  the  Invisible     is  itself  he  ^„  be  ft    firstbom        of  ^  thi            f     . 

afao  invisible,  and  invisible  m  like  manner,  for  ^  „  of             creature  „     ^erefore5of  stones 

otherwise  it  would  not  be  an  image.      For  an  ,       ^     f  '       .    God'the  Wofd  firstbom 

image  so  far  as  it  is  an  image,  even  amongst  us,  »       j      rf  ^           „            ^   ±Q   WQrds 

ought  to  be i  exactly  similar  as,  foi -example   in  «  ^m' fTom  the  dead  »  (Col.  i.  18;  Rom. 

respect  of  the  features  and  the  likeness.8     But  yHi        }  declarat       ?    Not  tVhat  He  first  rose; 

here  indeed  amongst  us,  this  is  by  no  means  for  ^'^   not  sjmply>  «  of  the  dead;,  but 

»  s^  Hom.  ii.  §  3  fin.                            »  viz.  Ariamsm.  "  firstborn  from  the  dead,"  nor  yet,  "  that  He 

a  XapaxTrtpvv  <c»  6vou»<rfK.    Tht t  argument  is,  that  invisible-  dje(I  first"  but  that  He   TOSe   the   firstborn    from 

:ss  being  mentioned,  the  image  must  have  it,  as  tf  one  should  say,  iiiot.           i.          j      i                 *.l  •             i 

the  picture  of  a  venerable  man,"  one  would  understand  a  venera-  the    dead.        bo    that    they    declare    nothing    else 


presently  have  thrust  the  many  into  this  impiety 2 , 
but  in  the  other  case  the  mean  and  low  nature 


ness 
<< 


ble  expression  in  the  features.    Compare  St.  Athanasius  against 

A  nanism,  Disc,  x,  c.  vi.  §  20,  Tr.  and  note  d.     [The  argument  is 

fine  spun,  and  not  convincing.    The  image  must  be  of  the  same  es-  *  [The  words,  "  and  angels  are  images  "  are  omitted  by  the  com- 

sence,  or  substance  in  this  case;  but  an  image  cannot  be  invisible,  mon  text,  with  several  MSS.,  but  manifestly  to  escape  an  apparent 

otherwise  it  were  not  an  image.    Compare  Meyer,  and  especially  difficulty,  because  it  has  been  noticed  above  that  angels  are  never 

Lightfoot.  — J.  A.  B.]  called  images.  —  J.  A.  B.] 


Homily  III.] 


HOMILIES   ON   COLOSSIANS. 


271 


than  this,  that  He  is  the  Firstfruits  of  the  Res- 
urrection. Surely  then  neither  in  the  place 
before  us.1  Next  he  proceeds  to  the  doctrine 
itself.  For  that  they  may  not  think  Him  to 
be  of  more  recent  existence,  because  that  in 
former  times  the  approach  was  through  Angels, 
but  now  through  Him  ;  he  shows  first,  that  they 
ha'l  no  power  (for  else  it  had  not  been  "  out  of 
darkness"  (ver.  13)  that  he  brought),  next,  that 
He  is  also  before  them.  And  he  uses  as  a  proof 
of  His  being  before  them,  this ;  that  they  were 
created  by  him.  "  For  in  Him,"  he  saith,  "  were 
all  things  created."  What  say  here  the  followers 
of  Paul  of  Samosata?'  "The  things  in  the 
heavens."  What  was  in  question,  he  has  placed 
first;8  "and  the  things  upon  the  earth."  Then 
he  says,  "  the  visible  and  the  invisible  things  "  ; 
invisible,  such  as  soul,  and  all  that  has  come  to 
exist  in  heaven  ;  visible,  such  as  men,  sun,  sky. 
"Whether  thrones."  And  what  is  granted,  he 
lets  'alone,  but  what  is  doubted  he  asserts. 
"Whether  thrones,  or  dominions,  or  principal- 
ities, or  powers."  The  words  "  whether,"  "  or," 
comprehend  the  whole  of  things  ;  but  by  means 
of  the  greater  things  show  it  of  the  less  also. 
But  the  Spirit  is  not  amongst  the  "  powers." 
"All  things,"  he  saith,  "  have  been  created 
through  Him,  and  unto  Him."  Lo,  "  in  Him," 
is4 "through  Him,"  for  having  said  "in  Him," 
he  added,  "  through  Him."  But  what  "  unto 
Him  "  ?  It  is  this ;  the  subsistence  of  all  things 
depends  on  Him.  Not  only  did  He  Himself 
bring  them  out  of  nothing  into  being,  but  Him- 
self sustains  them  now,  so  that  were  they  dis- 
severed from  His  Providence,  they  were  at  once 
undone  and  destroyed.  But  He  said  not,  "  He 
continues  them,"  which  had  been  a  grosser  way 
of  speaking,  but  what  is  more  subtle,  that  "  on  " 
Him  they  depend.  To  have  only  a  bearing  on 
Him  is  enough  to  continue  anything  and  bind  it 
fast.  So  also  the  word  "  firstborn,"  in  the  sense 
of  a  foundation.  But  this  doth  not  show  the 
creatures  to  be  consubstantial  with  Him;  but 
that  all  things  are  through  Him,  and  in  Him  are 
upheld.  Since  Paul  also  when  he  says  elsewhere, 
"I  have  laid  a  foundation"  (1  Cor.  iii.  10),  is 
speaking  not  concerning  substance,  but  opera- 
tion. For,  that  thou  mayest  not  think  Him  to 
be  a  minister,  he  says  that  He  continues  them, 

1  i.e.  is  anything  else  meant  by  the  word  *p»r£ro«of ,  than  that 
He  is  the  Firstfruits  of  the  Creation.  This  may  be  his  meaning,  or 
"that  he.  the  Only -begotten,  is  the  Beginning  of  the  Creation."  See 
note  on  St.  Athanasius  against  A  nanism,  Disc  i,  Oxf.  Tr. 

*  P.  of  Samosata  heldthe  Divine  Word,  or  Reason,  to  be  a  mere 
Attribute,  and  not  a  Person.  The  Person  of  oar  Lord  would  thus  be 
•imply  Human,  only  with  a  Divine  influence.  See  St.  Ath.  Def.  of 
Nic  Def.  c.  v.jl  ix,  Tr.  This  text  of  St.  Paul  is  quoted  against  P. 
of  Samosata,  Cone.  Ant.  i.  Labbe,  t.  i,  p.  846,  by  the  orthodox 
Bithops.  See  also  Epiph.  Hzr.  45.  The  heretics  might  allow  what 
is  said  here  of  the  Word  as  an  Attribute;  the  refutation  follows  pres- 
ently. 

*  One  MS.  has,  "  first  the  things  in  heaven,"  &c,  which  agrees 
•ith  the  sense. 

*  i.e.  "  In  Him,"  in  the  beginning  of  the  verse,  is  said  in  such  a 
a  to  agree  with  "  through  Him." 


which  is  not  less  than  making  them.  Certainly, 
with  us  it  is  greater  even  :  for  to  the  former,  art 
conducts  us ;  but  to  the  latter,  not  so,  it  does 
not  even  stay  a  thing  in  decay. 

"  And  He  is  before  all  things,"  he  saith.  This 
is  befitting  God.  Where  is  Paul  of  Samosata? 
"  And  in  Him  all  things  consist,"  that  is,  they 
are  created  into5  Him.  He  repeats  these  ex- 
pressions in  close  sequence ;  with  their  close 
succession,  as  it  were  with  rapid  strokes,  tearing 
up  the  deadly  doctrine  by  the  roots.  For,  if 
even  when  such  great  things  had  been  declared, 
still  after  so  long  a  time  Paul  of  Samosata  sprung 
up,  how  much  more  [would  such  have  been  the 
case],  had  not  these  things  been  said  before? 
"  And  in  Him,"  he  saith,  "  all  things  consist." 
How  "consist"  in  one  who  was  not?  So  that 
the  things  also  done  through  Angels  are  of  Him. 

"And  He  is  the  head  of  the  body,  the 
Church." 

Then  having  spoken  of  His  dignity,  he  after- 
wards speaks  of  His  love  to  man  also.  "  He 
is,"  saith  he,  "the  Head  of  the  body,  the 
Church."  And  he  said  not  "of  the  fullness,"5 
(although  this  too  is  signified,)  out  of  a  wish  to 
show  His  great  friendliness  to  us,  in  that  He 
who  is  thus  above,  and  above  all,  connected 
Himself  with  those  below.  For  everywhere  He 
is  first ;  above  first ;  in  the  Church  first,  for  He 
is  the  Head  ;  in  the  Resurrection  first.     That  is, 

Ver.  18.  "That  He  might  have  the  preemi- 
nence." So  that  in  generation  also  He  is  first. 
And  this  is  what  Paul  is  chiefly  endeavoring  to 
show.  For  if  this  be  made  good,  that  He  was 
before  all  the  Angels ;  then  there  is  brought  in 
along  with  it  this  also  as  a  consequence,  that  He 
did  their  works  by  commanding  them.  And 
what  is  indeed  wonderful,  he  makes  a  point  to 
show  that  He  is  first  in  the  later  generation. 
Although  elsewhere  he  calls  Adam  first  ( i  Cor. 
xv«  45  )>  as  m  truth  he  is ;  but  here  he  takes  the 
Church  for  the  whole  race  of  mankind.  For 
He  is  first  of  the  Church  ;  and  first  of  men  after 
the  flesh,  like  as  of  the  Creation.7  And  there- 
fore he  here  uses  the  word  "  firstborn." 

What  is  in  this  place  the  meaning  of  "the 
Firstborn "  ?  Who  was  created  first,  or  rose 
before  all ;  as  in  the  former  place  it  means,  Who 
was  before  all  things.  And  here  indeed  he  uses 
the   word  "firstfruits,"  saying,   "Who    is    the8 

*  [Chrys.  here  seems  to  insist  on  the  local  sense  of  ei«,  "  into." 
which  above,  and  in  Rev.  Ver.,  is  translated  "  unto."  All  things  in 
Him  consist,  being  created  into  Him.  But  the  fancy  is  of  doubtful 
value.  —  J.  A.  B.J 

*  row  *Ai}pM/yiar<K.  Here  used  of  the  universe,  somewhat  as 
1  Cor.  x.  36,  only  in  a  more  extended  sense. 

7  Cat.  "  and  first  of  men  even  as  he  that  was  first  of  Creation 
after  the  flesh,"  then  one  Par.  and  Br.  M.  read,  "  For  this  cause 
both  here  and  there  the  word  '  Firstborn '  is  used.  But  what  is 
'  Firstborn  of  all  creation  '?  It  is  for  '  First  Crrated,'  as  '  Firstborn 
from  the  dead '  is  for  '  Who  rose  again  befnre  all.'  And  as  there  he 
puts  •  Who  is  before  all,'  so  here  also  he  has  put '  Firstfruits. '"  [A 
Paris  MS.  has  the  same  reading,  except  that  for  "  First  Created  '  it 
has  ••  First  Creator."  — J.  A.  B.] 

*  Rec.  text  apx^l*  St.  Chrys.  has  iw&PX*l  [and  so  six  cursives. 


272 


WORKS   OF   ST.    CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  III. 


Firstfruits,  the  Firstborn  from  the  dead,  that  in 
all  things  He  might  have  the  preeminence," 
showing  that  the  rest  also  are  such  as  He ;  but 
in  the  former  place  it  is  not  the  "  Firstfruits M 
of  creation.1  And  it  is  there,  "  The  Image  of 
the  invisible  God,"  and  then,  "  Firstborn." 

Ver.  19,  20.  "For  it  was  the  good  pleasure 
of  the  Father,  that  in  Him  should  all  the  fullness 
dwell.  And  having  made  peace  through  the 
Blood  of  His  Cross,  through  Him  to  reconcile 
all  things  unto  Himself,  whether  things  upon  the 
earth,  or  things  in  the  heavens." 

Whatsoever  things  are  of  the  Father,  these  he 
saith  are  of  the  Son  also,  and  that  with  more 
of  intensity,  because  that  He  both  became 
"dead"2  for,  and  united  Himself  to  us.  He 
said,  "Firstfruits,"  as  of  fruits.  He  said  not 
"  Resurrection,"  but  "  Firstfruits,"  showing  that 
He  hath  sanctified  us  all,  and  offered  us,  as  it 
were,  a  sacrifice.  The  term  "  fullness "  some 
use  of  the  Godhead,  like  as  John  said,  "  Of  His 
fullness  have  all  we  received."  That  is,  what- 
ever was  the  Son,  the  whole  Son  dwelt  there, 
not  a  sort  of  energy,  but  a  Substance. 

He  hath  no  cause  to  assign  but  the  will  of 
God :  for  this  is  the  import  of,  "  it  was  the 
good  pleasure  ...  in  Him.  And  .  .  .  through 
Him  to  reconcile  all  things  unto  Himself."  Lest 
thou  shouldest  think  that  He  undertook  the 
office  of  a  minister  only,  he  saith,  "  unto  Him- 
self."8 (2  Cor.  v.  18.)  And  yet  he  elsewhere 
says,  that  He  reconciled  us  to  God,  as  in  the 
Epistle  he  wrote  to  the  Corinthians.  And  he 
well  said,  "Through  Him  to  make  an  end  of 
reconciling"  ;4  for  they  were  already  reconciled ; 
but  completely,  he  says,  and  in  such  sort,  as  no 
more  to  be  at  enmity  with  Him.  How?  For 
not  only  the  reconciliation  was  set  forth,  but  also 
the  manner  of  the  reconciliation.  "  Having 
made  peace  through  the  Blood  of  His  Cross." 
The  word  "reconcile,"  shows  the  enmity; 
the  words  "having  made  peace,"  the  war. 
"  Through  the  Blood  of  His  Cross,  through  Him- 
self, whether  things  upon  the  earth,  or  things  in 
the  heavens."  A  great  thing  indeed  it  is  to  rec- 
oncile ;  but  that  this  should  be  through  Himself 
too,  is  a  greater  thing ;  and  a  greater  still,  — how 
through  Himself?  Through  His  Blood.  Through 
His  Blood ;  and  he  said  not  simply  His  Blood, 
but  what  is  yet  greater,  through  the  Cross.  So 
that  the  marvels  are  five :  He  reconciled  us ; 
to   God;    through    Himself;    through    Death; 


But  this  reading  is  clearly  wrong,  and  vitiates  the  following  state- 
ments of  Chrys.  For  the  meaning  of  "  beginning  "  here,  see  Light- 
foot.— J.  A.  B.J 

1  The  same  MSS.  add,  "  but  only  the  Firstborn,  and  not  even 
this  in  the  first  place,  but  after  saying,  '  Who  is  the  Image,' "  &c. 

2  wcp°c  yiyovt,  alluding  to  the  expression,  irpwroroicof  c«  vtupdv. 
8  ["  The  reconciliation  is  always  represented  as  made  to  the 

Father.  The  reconciler  is  sometimes  the  Father  Himself,  sometimes 
the  Son."  —  Lightfoot.  —  J.  A.  B.] 

4  afroKaraAAd£<u  as  airoAvrpfcxrtf,  above?     [The  compound  verb 
may  mean  to  reconcile  completely  or  finally.  — J.  A.  B.] 


through  the  Cross.  Admirable  again  !  How  he 
has  mixed  them  up !  For  lest  thou  shouldest 
think  that  it  is  one  thing  merely,  or  that  the 
Cross  is  anything  of  itself,5  he  saith  "  through 
Himself."  How  well  he  knows  that  this  was  a 
great  thing.  Because  not  by  speaking  words, 
but  by  giving  Himself  up  for  the  reconciliation, 
He  so  wrought  everything. 

But  what  is  "  things  in  the  heavens  "  ?  For 
with  reason  indeed  is  it  said,  "  the  things  upon 
the  earth,"  for  those  were  filled  with  enmity,  and 
manifoldly  divided,  and  each  one  of  us  was 
utterly  at  variance  with  himself,  and  with  the 
many ;  but  how  made  He  peace  amongst  "  the 
things  in  the  heavens "  ?  Was  war  and  battle 
there  also  ?  How  then  do  we  pray,  saying, "  Thy 
will  be  done,  as  in  heaven,  so  on  earth"  ?  ( Matt, 
vi.  10.)  What  is  it  then?  The  earth  was  di- 
vided from  heaven,  the  Angels  were  become  ene- 
mies to  men,  through  seeing  the  Lord  insulted. 
"  To  sum  up,"  he  saith,  "  all  things  in  Christ, 
the  things  in  the  heavens,  and  the  things  upon 
the  earth."  (Eph.  i.  10.)  How?  The  things 
in  heaven  indeed  in  this  way :  He  translated 
Man  thither,  He  brought  up  to  them  the  enemy, 
the  hated  one.  Not  only  made  He  the  things 
on  earth6  to  be  at  peace,  but  He  brought  up  to 
them  him  that  was  their  enemy  and  foe.  Here 
was  peace  profound.  Angels  again  appeared  on 
the  earth  thereafter,  because  that  Man  too  had 
appeared  in  heaven.  And  it  seems  to  me  that 
Paul  was  caught  up  on  this  account  ( 2  Cor.  xii. 
2),  and  to  show  that  the  Son  also  had  been  re- 
ceived up  thither.  For  in  the  earth  indeed,  the 
peace  was  twofold ;  with  the  things  of  heaven, 
and  with  themselves ;  but  in  heaven  it  was  sim- 
ple. For  if  the  Angels  rejoice  over  one  sinner 
that  repenteth,  much  more  will  they  over  so 
many. 

Ail  this  God's  power  hath  wrought.  Why  then 
place  ye  confidence  in  Angels?7  saith  he.  For 
so  far  are  they  from  bringing  you  near,  that  they 
were  ever  your  enemies,  except  God  Himself 
had  reconciled  you  with  them.  Why  then  run 
ye  to  them?  Wouldest  thou  know  the  hatred 
which  the  Angels  had  against  us,  how  great  it 
was ;  and  how  averse  to  us  they  always  were  ? 
They  were  sent  to  take  vengeance  in  the  cases 
of  the  Israelites,  of  David,  of  the  Sodomites,  of 
the  Valley  of  weeping.8  (Ex.  xxiii.  20.)  Not 
so  however  now,  but,  on  the  contrary,  they  sang 
upon  the  earth9  (2  Sam.  xxiv.  16)  with  exceed- 

5  Or  "by  itself"  (eavrb),  i.e.  separate  from  the  Divine  Person, 
as  it  would  be  if  there  had  been  a  several  Human  Personality.  (Cat. 
and  Bodl.  iavrbv.) 

•  Bodl.  Extr.  [Catena],  "He  made  not  him  staying  on  earth," 
&c. 

7  [Chrys.  shows  no  suspicion  of  that  combination  of  the  Jewish 
(Essene)  doctrine  of  angels  with  the  Gnostic  doctrine  of  aeons,  which 
we  now  know  to  have  prevailed  at  Colossae  (see  Lightfoot  on  Col.. 
Int.  II.).— j.  A.  BJ 

•  Judg.  h.  5 ;  see  Ps.  Ixxxiv.  6  (2  Sam.  v.  seems  hardly  applicable). 
9  Downes  conjectures,  "  Peace  on  earth."    Luke  ii.  13. 


Homily  III.] 


HOMILIES   ON    COLOSSIANS. 


273 


ing  joy.    And  He  led  these  down  to  men  '  (Gen. 
xix.  13),  and  led  men  up  to  them. 

And  observe,  I  pray  you,  the  marvel  in  this : 
He  brought  these  first  down  hither,  and  then  he 
took  up  man  to  them ;  earth  became  heaven, 
because  that  heaven  was  about  to  receive  the 
things  of  earth.     Therefore  when  we  give  thanks, 
we  say,  "  Glory  to  God  in  the  highest,  and  on 
earth  peace,  good  will  to   men."     Behold,  he 
saith,  even  men  appeared  well-pleasing  to  Him 
thereafter.      What    is    "good    will"?      (Eph. 
ii.  14;    Deut.  xxxii.  8,  Sept.)     Reconciliation. 
No  longer  is  the  heaven  a  wall    of   partition. 
At  first  the  Angels  were  according  to  the  num- 
ber of  the  nations ;  but  now,  not  according  to 
the  number  of  the  nations,  but  that  of  the  be- 
lievers. Whence  is  this  evident?     Hear  Christ 
saying,  "  See  that  ye  despise  not  one  of  these 
little  ones,  for  their  Angels  do  always  behold 
the  face  of  My  Father  which   is   in   heaven." 
(Matt,  xviii.  10.)     For  each  believer  hath  an 
Angel ;  since  even  from  the  beginning,  every 
one  of  those  that  were  approved  had  his  Angel, 
as  Jacob  says,  "  The  Angel  that  feedeth  me,  and 
delivereth  me  from  my  youth."2     (Gen.  xlviii. 
15, 16,  nearly.)     If  then  we  have  Angels,  let  us 
be  sober,  as  though  we  were  in  the  presence  of 
tutors;    for  there   is   a   demon    present   also.3 
Therefore  we  pray,  asking4  for  the  Angel  of 
peace,  and  everywhere  we  ask  for  peace6  (for 
there  is  nothing  equal  to  this)  ;  peace,  in  the 
Churches,  in  the  prayers,  in  the  supplications, 
in  the  salutations ;  and  once,  and  twice,  and 
thrice,  and  many  times,  does  he  that  is  over  the 
Church  give  it,  "  Peace  be  unto  you."     Where- 
fore?   Because  this  is  the  Mother  of  all  good 
things ;  this  is  the  foundation  of  joy.    Therefore 
Christ  also  commanded  the  Apostles  on  entering 
into  the  houses  straightway  to  say  this,  as  being 
a  sort  of  symbol  of  the  good  things ;   for  He 
saith,  "When   ye   come  into  the  houses,  say, 
Peace  be  unto  you  ;  "6  for  where  this  is  wanting, 
everything  is  useless.      And   to    His  disciples 
Christ  said,  "  Peace  I  leave  with  you,  My  peace 
I  give  unto  you."     (John  xiv.  27.)     This  pre- 
pareth  the  way  for  love.     And  he  that  is  over 
the  Church,  says  not,  "  Peace  be  unto  you," 
simply,  but  "  Peace  be  unto  all."     For  what  if 


1  Gr.  avrovc,  one  suspects  awv?  (avOputnovs) ,  which  has  been 
conjectured. 

■  "  Feedeth  "  is  said  of  God  in  the  text.  On  the  passage,  St. 
Chrys.  does  not  notice  the  mention  of  the  Angel.  He  quotes  it,  how* 
ever,  in  his  first  Homily  de  laudibus  8.  Pauli.  He  also  infers  the 
doctrine  from  Acts  xii.  15;  Horn.  xxvi.  St.  Jerome,  on  lsa.  lxvi.  20, 
quotes  all  these  passages.     Bp.  Bull,  Ser.  xii.  adds,  Eccl.  v.  6. 

*  See  St.  Hennas,  Past.  1,  ii.  pr.  6,  £  1,  and  Cotelerius,  note  14, 
**  x»  P-  93»  wno  cites  Origen,  Horn.  xii.  in  Luc.  S.  Greg.  Nyss.  de 
Vita  Masts,  p.  104;  Petavius,  Theol.  Dog.  de  Ang.  1.  ii.  c.  8,  cites 
St  Basil,  contr.  Eunom.  p.  70,  and  on  Ps.  xxxiii.  p.  220,  &c. 

4  [There  was  among  the  forms  of  prayer  in  Chrys.'s  day  this, 
"Ask  for  the  angel  of  peace."     See  Field's  Annotations.  —  J.  A.  B.] 

4  In  Horn,  xxxii.  on  St.  Matt,  he  mentions  a  prayer  for  Peace. 
See  also  Const.  Ap.  z.  viii.  c.  37  fin. 

*  St.  Matt.  x.  xa,  St.  Luke  x.  5.  but  neither  accurately.  [That 
is,  neither  Gospel  is  here  accurately  quoted.  Chrys.  often  makes 
slight  mistakes  in  quoting,  as  we  do.  —  J.  A.  B.] 


with  this  man  we  have  peace,  but  with  another, 
war  and  fighting  ?  what  is  the  gain  ?  For  neither 
in  the  body,  should  some  of  its  elements  be  at 
rest  and  others  in  a  state  of  variance,  is  it  pos- 
sible that  health  should  ever  be  upheld ;  but 
only  when  the  whole  of  them  are  in  good  order, 
and  harmony,  and  peace,  and  except  the  whole 
are  at  rest,  and  continue  within  their  proper 
limits,  all  will  be  overturned.  And,  further,  in 
our  minds,  except  all  our  thoughts  are  at  rest, 
peace  will  not  exist.  So  great  a  good  is  peace, 
as  that  the  makers  and  producers  of  it  are 
called  the  sons  of  God  (Matt.  v.  9,  45),  with 
reason ;  because  the  Son  of  God  for  this  cause 
came  upon  the  earth,  to  set  at  peace  the  things 
in  the  earth,  and  those  in  the  heavens.  But  if 
the  peacemakers  are  the  sons  of  God,  the  makers 
of  disturbance  are  sons  of  the  devil. 

What  sayest  thou  ?  Dost  thou  excite  conten- 
tions and  fightings?  And  doth  any  ask  who  is 
so  unhappy?  Many  there  are  who  rejoice  at 
evil,  and  who  do  rather  rend  in  pieces  the  Body 
of  Christ,  than  did  the  soldiers  pierce  it  with 
the  spear,  or  the  Jews  who  struck  it  through 
with  the  nails.  A  less  evil  was  that  than  this ; 
those  Members,  so  cut  through,  again  united, 
but  these  when  torn  off,  if  they  be  not  united 
here,  will  never  be  united,  but  remain  apart 
from  the  Fullness.  When  thou  art  minded  to 
war  against  thy  brother,  bethink  thee  that  thou 
warrest  against  the  members  of  Christ,  and  cease 
from  thy  madness.  For  what  if  he  be  an  out- 
cast ?  What  if  he  be  vile  ?  What  if  he  be  open 
to  contempt  ?  So  saith  He,  "  It  is  not  the  will 
of  My  Father  that  one  of  these  little  ones  should 
perish."  (Matt,  xviii.  14.)  And  again,  "Their 
Angels  do  always  behold  the  face  of  My  Father 
which  is  in  heaven."  (lb.  ver.  10.)  God  for 
his  sake  and  thine  even  became  a  servant,  and 
was  slain;  and  dost  thou  consider  him  to  be 
nothing?  Surely  in  this  respect  also  thou  tight- 
est against  God,  in  that  thou  deliverest  a  judg- 
ment contrary  to  His.  When  he  that  is  over 
the  Church  cometh  in,  he  straightway  says, 
"  Peace  unto  all "  ;  when  he  preacheth,  "  Peace 
unto  all"  ;  when  he  blesseth,  "Peace  unto  all"  ; 
when  he  biddeth  to  salute,  "  Peace  unto  all "  ; 
when  the  Sacrifice  is  finished,  "  Peace  unto  all "  : 
and  again,  in  the  middle,  "  Grace  to  you  and 
peace."  How  then  is  it  not  monstrous,  if, 
while  hearing  so  many  times  that  we  are  to  have 
peace,  we  are  in  a  state  of  feud  with  each  other ; 
and  receiving  peace,  and  giving  it  back,  are 
at  war  with  him7  that  giveth  it  to  us?  Thou 
sayest,  "  And  to  thy  spirit."  And  dost  thou 
traduce  him  abroad?  Woe  is  me  !  that  the 
majestic   usages8  of    the  Church   are   become 

7  i.e.  the  Bishop.  [This  is  the  person  several  times  above  called 
"  he  that  is  over,"  6  wpoe<rri>f,  the  same  word  that  is  employed  by 

Austin  Martyr,  I.  Apol.  c.  65,  for  the  person  presiding  in  an  assem- 
ly  for  worship.  —  J.  A.  B.]  •  ra  trc/upd. 


274 


WORKS   OF   ST.    CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  IIU 


forms  of  things  merely,  not  a  truth.  Woe  is 
me  !  that  the  watchwords  of  this  army  proceed 
no  farther  than  to  be  only  words.  Whence  also 
ye  are  ignorant  wherefore  is  said,  "  Peace  unto 
all."  But  hear  what  follows,  what  Christ  saith  ; 
"  And  into  whatsoever  city  or  village  ye  shall 
enter  ...  as  ye  enter  into  the  house,  salute  it ; 
and  if  the  house  be  worthy,  let  your  peace  come 
upon  it,  but  if  it  be  not  worthy,  let  your  peace 
return  to  you."  (Matt.  x.  n,  13.)  We  are 
therefore  ignorant ;  because  we  look  upon  this 
merely  as  a  figure  of  words  ;  and  we  assent  not 
to  them  in  our  minds.  For  do  I1  give  the 
Peace  ?  It  is  Christ  who  deigneth  to  speak  by 
us.  Even  if  at  all  other  times  we  are  void  of 
grace,  yet  are  we  not  now,  for  your  sakes.  For 
if  the  Grace  of  God  wrought  in  an  ass  and  a 
diviner,  for  the  sake  of  an  economy,  and  the 
advantage  of  the  Israelites  (Num.  22),  it  is  quite 
clear  that  it  will  not  refuse  to  operate  even  in 
us,  but  for  your 2  sakes  will  endure  even  this. 

Let  none  say  then  that  I  am  mean,  and  low, 
and  worthy  of  no  consideration,  and  in  such  a 
frame  of  mind  attend  to  me.3  For  such  I  am  ; 
but  God's  way  always  is,  to  be  present  even  with 
such  for  the  sake  of  the  many.  And,  that  ye 
may  know  this,  with  Cain  He  vouchsafed  to  talk 
for  Abel's  sake  (Gen.  iv.),  with  the  devil  for 
Job's  (Job  i.),  with  Pharaoh  for  Joseph's  (Gen. 
xli.),  with  Nebuchadnezzar  for  Daniel's  (Dan. 
ii.,  iv.),  with  Belshazzar,  for  the  same  (Dan. 
v.).  And  Magi  moreover  obtained  a  reve- 
lation (Matt,  ii.)  ;  and  Caiaphas  prophesied, 
though  a  slayer  of  Christ,  and  an  unworthy 
man,  because  of  the  worthiness  of  the  priest- 
hood. (John  xi.  49.)  And  it  is  said  to  have 
been  for  this  reason  that  Aaron  was  not 
smitten  with  leprosy.  For  why,  tell  me,  when 
both  had  spoken  against  Moses  did  she4 
alone  suffer,  the  punishment?  (Num.  xii.) 
Marvel  not :  for  if  in  worldly  dignities,  even 
though  ten  thousand  charges  be  laid  against  a 
man,  yet  is  he  not  brought  to  trial  before  he  has 
laid  down  his  office,  in  order  that  it  may  not  be 
dishonored  along  with  him ;  much  more  in  the 
case  of  spiritual  office,  be  he  whosoever  he  may, 
the  grace  of  God  works  in  him,  for  otherwise 
everything  is  lost :  but  when  he  hath  laid  it 
down,  either  after  he  is  departed  or  even  here, 
then  indeed,  then  he  will  suffer  a  sorer  punish- 
ment. 

Do  not,  I  pray  you,  think  that  these  things 
are  spoken  from  us;  it  is  the  Grace  of  God 
which  worketh  in  the  unworthy,  not  for  our 
sakes,  but  for  yours.     Hear  ye  then  what  Christ 

1  This  implies  that  he  was  Bishop,  and  consequently  that  these 
Homilies  were  delivered  at  Constantinople.  [Below  he  distinctly 
declares  himself  to  be  the  Bishop.  — J.  A.  B.] 

*  So  Sav.  Ben.  "  our." 

*  Or  "  even  so,  let  him  attend  to  me." 

*  Miriam. 


saith.  "  If  the  house  be  worthy,  let  your  peace 
come  upon  it."  (Matt.  x.  13-15.)  And  how 
becometh  it  worthy  ?  If  "  they  receive  you  " 
(Luke  x.  8),  He  saith.  "But  if  they  receive 
you  not,  nor  hear  your  words,  .  .  .  verily  I  say 
unto  you,  it  shall  be  more  tolerable  for  the  land 
of  Sodom  and  Gomorrah  in  the  day  of  judg- 
ment, than  for  that  city."  What  boots  it  then, 
that  ye  receive  us,  and  hear  not  the  things  we 
say?  What  gain  is  it  that  ye  wait  upon5  us, 
and  give  no  heed  to  the  things  which  are  spoken 
to  you  ?  This  will  be  honor  to  us,  this  the  ad- 
mirable service,  which  is  profitable  both  to  you 
and  to  us,  if  ye  hear  us.  Hear  also  Paul  say- 
ing, "  I  wist  not,  brethren,  that  he  was  High 
Priest."  (Acts  xxiii.  5.)  Hear  also  Christ  say- 
ing, "  All  whatsoever  they  bid  you  observe  " 
(Matt,  xxiii.  3),  that  "observe  and  do."  Thou 
despisest  not  me,  but  the  Priesthood ;  when 
thou  seest  me  stripped  of  this,  then  despise 
me;  then  no  more  will  I  endure  to  impose 
commands.  But  so  long  as  we  sit  upon  this 
throne,6  so  long  as  we  have  the  first  place,  we 
have  both  the  dignity  and  the  power,  even 
though  we  are  unworthy.  If  the  throne  of 
Moses  was  of  such  reverence,  that  for  its  sake 
they  were  to  be  heard,  much  more  the  throne 
t>f  Christ.  It,  we  have  received  by  succession ; 
from  it  we  speak;  since  the  time  that  Christ 
hath  vested  in  us  the  ministry  of  reconciliation. 
Ambassadors,  whatever  be  their  sort,  because 
of  the  dignity  of  an  embassy,  enjoy  much  honor. 
For  observe ;  they  go  alone  into  the  heart  of 
the  land  of  barbarians,  through  the  midst  of  so 
many  enemies ;  and  because  the  law  of  embassy 
is  of  mighty  power,  all  honor  them ;  all  look 
towards  them  with  respect,  all  send  them  forth 
with  safety.  And  we  now  have  received  a  word 
of  embassy,  and  we  are  come  from  God,  for 
this  is  the  dignity  of  the  Episcopate.  We  are 
come  to  you  on  an  embassy,  requesting  you  to 
put  an  end  to  the  war,  and  we  say  on  what 
terms;  not  promising  to  give  cities,  nor  so 
and  so  many  measures  of  corn,  nor  slaves,  nor 
gold ;  but  the  kingdom  of  heaven,  eternal  life, 
society  with  Christ,  the  other  good  things,  which 
neither  are  we  able  to  tell  you,  so  long  as  we  are 
in  this  flesh,  and  the  present  life.  Ambassadors 
then  we  are,  and  we  wish  to  enjoy  honor,  not  for 
our  own  sakes,'  far  be  it,  for  we  know  its  worth- 
lessness,  but  for  yours ;  that  ye  may  hear  with 
earnestness  the  things  we  say ;  that  ye  may  be 
profited,  that  not  with  listlessness  or  indifference 
ye  may  attend  to  what  is  spoken.  See  ye  not 
ambassadors,  how  all  pay  court  to  them  ?  We 
are  God's  ambassadors  to  men ;  but,  if  this  of- 


•  0cpaireifcrc. 

•  [This  would  seem  clearly  to  indicate  that  these  homilies  were 
delivered  at  Constantinople.  The  passage  below,  on  ch.  iii.  a-4,  does- 
not  necessarily  show  the  contrary.  —  J.  A.  B.] 


Homily  IV.] 


HOMILIES   ON   COLOSSIANS. 


*7S 


fend  you,1  not  we,  but  the  Episcopate  itself,  not  live  to  the  glory  of  God,  and  be  counted  worthy 
this  man  or  that,  but  the  Bishop.     Let  no  one  of  the  good  things  promised  to  those  that  love 


hear  me,  but  the  dignity.     Let  us  then  do  every- 
thing according  to  the  will  of  God,  that  we  may 


Him,  through  the  grace  and  lovingkindness,  &c. 
&c. 


HOMILY   IV. 


COLOSSIANS   1.    21,    22. 


"And  you, being  in  time  past,  enemies  and  alienated3  in 
your  mind,  in  your  evil  works,  yet  now  hath  He  rec- 
onciled in  the  body  of  His  flesh  through  death,  to 
present  you  holy  and  without  blemish  and  unre- 
provable  before  Him." 

Here  he  goes  to  show  that  He  reconciled 
those  even  who  were  unworthy  of  reconciliation. 
For  by  the  saying  that  they  were  under  the 
power  of  darkness,  he  shows  the  calamity  in 
which  they  were.  (v.  13.)  But  lest,  on  hearing 
of  "the  power  of  darkness,"  thou  shouldest  con- 
sider it  Necessity,  he  adds,  "  And  you  that  were 
alienated,"  so  that  though  it  appear  to  be  the 
same  thing  that  he  says,  yet  it  is  not  so ;  for  it  is 
not  the  same  thing  to  deliver  out  of  the  evils  him 
that  through  necessity  came  to  suffer,  and  him 
that  of  his  own  will  endures.  For  the  former  in- 
deed is  worthy  to  be  pitied,  but  the  latter  hated. 
But  nevertheless,  he  saith,  you  that  are  not 
against  your  wills,  nor  from  compulsion,  but  with 
your  wills,  and  wishes,  sprang  away  from  Him, 
and  are  unworthy  of  it,  He  hath  reconciled.8 
And  seeing  he  had  made  mention  of  the  "  things 
in  the  heavens,"  he  shows,  that  all  the  enmity  had 
its  origin  from  hence,  not  thence.  For  they  in- 
deed were  long  ago  desirous,  and  God  also,  but 
ye  were  not  willing. 

And  throughout  he  is  showing  that  the  Angels 

had  no  power  in  the  successive  times,4  forasmuch 

as  men  continued  enemies ;  they  could  neither 

persuade  them,  nor,  if  persuaded,  could  they 

deliver  them  from  the  devil.     For  neither  would 

persuading  them  be  any  gain,  except  he  that 

held  them  were  bound  ;  nor  would  binding  him 

have  been  of  any  service,  except  they  whom  he 

detained  were  willing  to  return.     But  both  of 

these  were  needed,  and  they  could  do  neither 

of  them,  but  Christ  did  both.     So  that  even 

more  marvelous  than  loosing  death,  is  the  per- 


*  2>tfr«yr*«.    "  Up  hill,"  "  against  the  grain." 

*  The  order  of  words,  "enemies"  and  "alienated,"  is  here  in- 
verted as  compared  with  the  Rec.  text,  and  the  Commentary  that 
follows  here  requires  the  common  order. 

*  Edd.  hare  avriAAa£«,  but  the  Translator  conjectures  «wo*«mjA- 
Aa£c,  which  is  confirmed  by  a  MS.  in  Brit.  XI. 

4  rote  ««tw  xpeVotc,  usually  "  latter  times  " ;  here  it  seems  to  be 
"  down  the  stream  of  time."  One  suspects  arw,  but  it  may  be  reck- 
oned from  the  Fall. 


suading  them.  For  the  former  was  wholly  of 
Himself,  and  the  power  lay  wholly  in  Himself, 
but  of  the  latter,  not  in  Himself  alone,  but  in 
us  also;  but  we  accomplish  those  things  more 
easily  of  which  the  power  lies  in  ourselves. 
Therefore,  as  being  the  greater,  he  puts  it  last. 
And  he  said  not  simply  "  were  at  enmity," 6  but 
"  were  alienated,"  which  denotes  great  enmity, 
nor  yet "  alienated  "  6  [only],  but  without  any  ex- 
pectation even  of  returning.  "  And  enemies  in 
your  mind,"  he  says ;  then  the  alienation  had  not 
proceeded  so  far  as  purpose  only — but  what? 
"  in  your  wicked  works  "  also.  Ye  were  both  ene- 
mies, he  saith,  and  ye  did  the  works  of  enemies. 
"  Yet  now  hath  He  reconciled  in  the  body  of 
His  flesh  through  death  to  present  you  holy  and 
without  blemish  and  unreprovable  before  Him." 
Again  he  lays  down  also  the  manner  of  the 
reconciliation,  that  it  was  "in  the  Body,"  not 
by  being  merely  beaten,  nor  scourged,  nor  sold, 
but  even  by  dying  a  death  the  most  shameful. 
Again  he  makes  mention  of  the  Cross,  and  again 
lays  down  another  benefit.  For  He  did  not 
only  "deliver,"  but,  as  he  says  above,  "Who 
made  us  meet"  (ver.  12),  to  the  same  he 
alludes  here  also.  "Through"  His  "death," 
he  says,  "  to  present  you  holy  and  without 
blemish  and  unreprovable  before  Him."  For 
truly,  He  hath  not  only  delivered  from  sins,  but 
hath  also  placed  amongst  the  approved.  For, 
not  that  He  might  deliver  us  from  evils  only, 
did  He  suffer  so  great  things,  but  that  also  we 
might  obtain  the  first  rewards  ;  as  if  one  should 
not  only  free  a  condemned  criminal  from  his 
punishment,  but  also  advance  him  to  honor. 
And  he  hath  ranked  you  with  those  who  have  not 
sinned,  yea  rather  not  with  those  who  have  done 
no  sin  only,  but  even  with  those  who  have  wrought 
the  greatest  righteousness ;  and,  what  is  truly  a 
great  thing,  hath  given  the  holiness  which  is 
before  Him,  and  the  being  unreprovable.  Now 
an  advance  upon  unblamable  is  unreprovable, 
when  we  have  done  nothing  either  to  be  con- 
demned for,  or  charged  with.     But,   since  he 

6  •vffpotVoiraf ,  which  is  less  than  cgftpov?. 

•  Here  ^AAorputpcKovf ,  not  «s**AAorpM»ptf»'ovf ,  as  above. 


276 


WORKS   OF   ST.   CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  IV. 


ascribed  the  whole  to  Him,  because  through 
His  death  He  achieved  these  things;  "what 
then,  says  one,  is  it  to  us?  we  need  nothing." 
Therefore  he  added, 

Ver.  23.  "  If  so  be  that  ye  continue  in  the 
faith  grounded  and  steadfast,  and  not  moved 
away  from  the  hope  of  the  Gospel." 

Here  he  strikes  a  blow  at  their  listlessness. 
And  he  said  not  simply  "continue,"  for  it  is 
possible  to  continue  wavering,  and  vacillating; 
it  is  possible  to  stand,  and  continue,  though 
turned  this  way  and  that.  "  If  so  be  that  ye 
continue,"  he  saith,  "grounded  and  steadfast, 
and  not  moved  away."  Wonderful !  What  a 
forcible  metaphor  he  uses ;  he  says  not  only  not 
tossed  to  and  fro,  but  not  even  moved.  And 
observe,  he  lays  down  so  far  nothing  burden- 
some, nor  toilsome,  but  faith  and  hope ;  that  is, 
if  ye  continue  believing,  that  the  hope  of  the 
things  to  come  is  true.  For  this  indeed  is 
possible ;  but,  as  regards  virtuous  living,  it  is 
not  possible  to  avoid  being  shaken  about,  though 
it  be  but  a  little;  so  (what  he  enjoins)  is  not 
grievous. 

"  From  the  hope,"  he  saith,  "  of  the  Gospel, 
which  ye  heard,  which  was  preached  in  all 
creation  under  heaven."  But  what  is  the  hope 
of  the  Gospel,  except  Christ  ?  For  He  Himself 
is  our  peace,  that  hath  wrought  all  these  things  : 
so  that  he  who  ascribes  them  to  others  is  "  moved 
away  "  :  for  he  has  lost  all,  unless  he  believe  in 
Christ.  "  Which  ye  heard,"  he  saith.  And  again 
he  brings  themselves  as  witnesses,  then  the  whole 
world.  He  saith  not, "  which  is  being  preached," 
but  hath  already  been  believed  and  preached. 
As  he  did  also  at  the  outset  (ver.  6),  being  desirous 
by  the  witness  of  the  many  to  establish  these  also. 
"  Whereof  I  Paul  was  made  a  minister."  This 
also  contributes  to  make  it  credible ;  "I,"  saith 
he,  "  Paul  a  minister."  For  great  was  his  author- 
ity, as  being  now  everywhere  celebrated,  and 
the  teacher  of  the  world. 

Ver.  24.  "  Now  I  rejoice  in  my  sufferings  for 
your  sake,  and  fill  up  on  my  part  that  which  is 
lacking  of  the  afflictions  of  Christ  in  my  flesh 
for  His  Body's  sake,  which  is  the  Church." 

And  what  is  the  connection  of  this  ?  It  seems 
indeed  not  to  be  connected,  but  it  is  even  closely 
so.  And  "  minister,"  he  says,  that  is,  bringing 
in  nothing  from  myself,  but  announcing  what  is 
from  another.  I  so  believe,  that  I  suffer  even 
for  His  sake,  and  not  suffer  only,  but  even  re- 
joice in  suffering,  looking  unto  the  hope  which 
is  to  come,  and  I  suffer  not  for  myself,  but  for 
you.  "And  fill  up,"  he  saith,  "that  which  is 
lacking  of  the  afflictions  of  Christ  in  my  flesh." 
It  seems  indeed  to  be  a  great  thing  he  has  said ; 
but  it  is  not  of  arrogancy,  far  be  it,  but  even  of 
much  tender  love  towards  Christ ;  for  he  will 
not  have  the  sufferings  to  be  his  own,  but  His, 


through  desire  of  conciliating  these  persons  to 
Him.  And  what  things  I  suffer,  I  suffer,  he 
saith,  on  His  account :  not  to  me,  therefore, 
express  your  gratitude,  but  to  him,  for  it  is  He 
Himself  who  suffers.  Just  as  if  one,  when  sent 
to  a  person,  should  make  request  to  another, 
saying,  I  beseech  thee,  go  for  me  to  this  person, 
then  the  other  should  say,  "  it  is  on  his  account 
I  am  doing  it."  So  that  He  is  not  ashamed  to 
call  these  sufferings  also  his  own.1  For  He  did 
not  only  die  for  us,  but  even  after  His  death  He 
is  ready  to  be  afflicted  for  your  sakes.  He  is 
eagerly  and  vehemently  set  upon  showing  that 
He  is  even  now  exposed  to  peril  in  His  own 
Body  for  the  Church's  sake,  and  he  aims  at  this 
point,  namely,  ye  are  not  brought  unto  God  by 
us,  but  by  Him,  even  though  we  do  these  things, 
for  we  have  not  undertaken  a  work  of  our  own, 
but  His.  And  it  is  the  same  as  if  there  were  a 
band 'which  had  its  allotted  leader  to  protect  it, 
and  it  should  stand  in  battle,  and  then  when  he 
was  gone,  his  lieutenant  should  succeed  to  his 
wounds  until  the  battle  were  brought  to  a  close. 

Next,  that  for  His  sake  also  he  doeth  these 
things,  hearken:  "For  His  Body's  sake,"  he 
saith,  assuredly  meaning  to  say  this :  "  I  pleas- 
ure not  you,  but  Christ:  for  what  things  He 
should  have  suffered,  I  suffer  instead  of  Him." 
See  how  many  things  he  establishes.  Great,  he 
shows,  is  the  claim  upon  their  love.  As  in  his 
second  Epistle  to  the  Corinthians,  he  wrote, 
saying,  "  he  committed  unto  us  the  ministry  of 
reconciliation"  (2  Cor.  v.  20)  ;  and  again,  "We 
are  ambassadors  on  behalf  of  Christ ;  as  though 
God  were  entreating  by  us."  So  also  here  he 
saith,  "  For  his  sake  I  suffer,"  that  he  may  the 
more  draw  them  to  Him.  That  is,  though  He 
who  is  your  debtor  is  gone  away,  yet  I  repay. 
For,  on  this  account  he  also  said,  "  that  which  is 
lacking,"  to  show  that  not  even  yet  does  he 
consider  Him  to  have  suffered  all.  "  For  your 
sake,"  he  saith,  and  even  after  His  death  He 
suffers;  seeing  that  still  there  remains  a  defi- 
ciency. The  same  thing  he  doeth  in  another 
way  in  the  Epistle  to  the  Romans,  saying, 
"Who  also  maketh  intercession  for  us"  (Rom. 
viii.  34),  showing  that  He  was  not  satisfied  with 
His  death  alone,  but  even  afterwards  He  doeth 
countless  things. 

He  does  not  then  say  this  to  exalt  himself, 
but  through  a  desire  to  show  that  Christ  is  even 
yet  caring  for  them.  And  he  shows  what  he 
says  to  be  credible,  by  adding,  "  for  His  Body's 
sake."  For  that  so  it  is,  and  that  there  is  no 
unlikelihood  in  it,  is  plain  from  these  things 
being  done  for  His  body's  sake.  Look  how  He 
hath  knitted  us  unto  Himself.  Why  then  intro- 
duce Angels  between?  "Whereof  I  was  made," 
he  saith,  "  a  minister."     Why  introduce  Angels 

1  As  Acts  ix.  5. 


Homily  IV.] 


HOMILIES   ON   COLOSSIANS. 


277 


besides?    "I  am  a  minister."    Then  he  shows 
that  he  had  himself  done  -nothing,  albeit  he  is 
a  minister.     "  Of  which  I  was  made,"  saith  he, 
"a  minister,  according  to  the  dispensation  of 
God  which  is  given  me  to  youward,  to  fulfill  the 
word  of  God."     "The  dispensation."      Either 
he  means,  He  so  willed  that  after  His  own  de- 
parture we  should  succeed  to  the  dispensation, 
in  order  that  ye  might  not  feel  as  deserted,  (for 
it  is  Himself  that  suffers,  Himself  that  is  ambas- 
sador ;)  or  he  means  this,  namely,  me  who  was 
more  than  all  a  persecutor,  for  this  end  He  per- 
mitted to  persecute,  that  in   my  preaching   I 
might  gain   belief;   or  by  "dispensation"   he 
means,  that  He  required  not  deeds,  nor  actions, 
nor  good  works,  but  faith  and  baptism.     For  ye 
would  not  otherwise  have  received  the  word. 
"For  you,"  he   saith,  "to  fulfill  the  word  of 
God."     He   speaks  of  the  Gentiles,   showing 
that  they  were  yet  wavering,  by  the   expres- 
sion, "  fulfill."     For  that  the  cast-away  Gentiles 
should  have  been  able  to  receive  such  lofty  doc- 
trines was  not  of  Paul,  but  of  the  dispensation 
of  God ; "  for  I  never  could  have  had  the  power," 
he  saith.     Having  shown  that  which  is  greater, 
that  his  sufferings  are  Christ's,  he  next  subjoins 
what  is  more  evident,  that  this  also  is  of  God, 
"  to  fulfill  His  word  in  you."     And  he  shows  here 
covertly,  that  this  too  is  of  dispensation,  that  it 
is  spoken  to  you  now,  when  ye  are  able  to  hear 
it,  and  cometh  not  of  neglect,  but  to  the  end  ye 
may  receive  it.     For  God  doeth  not  all  things 
on  a  sudden,  but  useth  condescension  because 
of  His  plenteous  love  toward  man.     And  this  is 
the  reason  why  Christ  came  at  this  time,  and 
not  of  old.     And  He  shows  in  the  Gospel,  that 
for  this  reason  He  sent  the  servants  first,  that 
they  might  not  proceed  to  kill  the  Son.     For  if 
they  did  not  reverence  the  Son,  even  when  He 
came  after  the  servants,  much  less  would  they 
had  He  come  sooner ;  if  they  gave  no  heed  to 
the  lesser  commandments,  how  would  they  to 
the  greater?     What   then,   doth   one    object? 
Are  there  not  Jews  even  now,  and  Greeks  who 
tte  in  a  very  imperfect  condition  ?    This,  how- 
ler, is  an  excess  of  listlessness.     For  after  so 
l°&g  a  time,  after  such  great  instructions,  still 
to  continue  imperfect,  is  a  proof  of  great  stu- 
pidity. 

When  then  the  Greeks  say,  why  did  Christ 
come  at  this  time  ?  let  us  not  allow  them  so  to 
speak,  but  let  us  ask  them,  whether  He  did  not 
succeed?  For  as,  if  He  had  come  at  the  very 
fast,  and  had  not  succeeded,  the  time  would  not 
have  been  for  us  a  sufficient  excusation,  so,  see- 
^g  He  hath  succeeded,  we  cannot  with  justice 
»*  brought  to  account  on  the  score  of  "the 
tone."  For  neither  does  any  one  demand  of  a 
Physician,  who  has  removed  the  disease,  and 
restored  one  to  health,  to  give  an  account  of 


his  treatment,  nor  yet  does  any  examine  closely 
a  general  who  has  gained  a  victory,  why  at  this 
time,  and  why  in  this  place.  For  these  things 
it  were  in  place  to  ask,  had  he  not  been  suc- 
cessful ;  but  when  he  has  been  successful,  they 
must  even  be  taken  for  granted.  For,  tell  me, 
whether  is  more  worthy  of  credit,  thy  reasoning 
and  calumny,  or  the  perfection  of  the  thing? 
Conquered  He,  or  conquered  He  not?  show 
this.  Prevailed  He,  or  prevailed  He  not?  Ac- 
complished He  what  He  said,  or  no?  These 
are  the  articles  of  enquiry.  Tell  me,  I  pray. 
Thou  fully  grantest  that  God  is,  even*  though 
not  Christ  ?  I  ask  thee  then ;  Is  God  without 
beginning?  Thou  wilt  say,  Certainly.  Tell  me 
then,  why  made  He  not  men  myriads  of  years 
before  ?  For  they  would  have  lived  through  a 
longer  time.  They  were  now  losers  by  that  time 
during  which  they  were  not.  Nay,  they  were 
not  losers ;  but  how,  He  who  made  them  alone 
knows.  Again,  I  ask  thee,  why  did  He  not 
make  all  men  at  once  ?  But  his  soul,  whoever 
was  first  made,  hath  so  many  years  of  existence, 
of  which  that  one  is  deprived  which  is  not  yet 
created.  Wherefore  made  He  the  one  to  be 
brought  first  into  this  world,  and  the  other  after- 
wards? 

Although  these  things  are  really  fit  subjects 
for  enquiry :  yet  not  for  a  meddling  curiosity : 
for  this  is  not  for  enquiry  at  all.  For  I  will  tell 
you  the  reason  I  spoke  of.  For  suppose  human 
nature  as  being  some  one  continued  life,  and 
that  in  the  first  times  our  race  was  in  the  posi- 
tion of  boyhood;  in  those  that  succeeded,  of 
manhood ;  and  in  these  that  are  near  extreme 
age,  of  an  old  man.  Now  when  the  soul  is  at 
its  perfection,  when  the  limbs  of  the  body  are 
unstrung,  and  our  war  is  over,  we  are  then 
brought  to  philosophy.  On  the  contrary,  one 
may  say,  we  teach  boys  whilst  young.  Yes,  but 
not  the  great  doctrines,  but  rhetoric,  and  expert- 
ness  with  language ;  and  the  other  when  they 
are  come  to  ripeness  of  age.  See  God  also 
doing  the  same  with  the  Jews.  For  just  as 
though  the  Jews  had  been  little  children,  he 
placed  Moses  over  them  as  a  schoolmaster,  and 
like  little  children  he  managed  these  things  for 
them  through  shadowy  representations,  as  we 
teach  letters.  "  For  the  law  had  a  shadow  of 
the  good  things  to  come,  and  not  the  very  image 
of  the  things."  (Heb.  x.  1.)  As  we  both  buy 
cakes  for  children  and  give  them  pieces  of 
money,  requiring  of  them  one  thing  only,  that 
for  the  present  they  would  go  to  school ;  so  also 
God  at  that  time  gave  them  both  wealth  and  lux- 
ury, purchasing  from  them  by  this  His  great  in- 
dulgence one  only  thing,  that  they  would  listen  to 
Moses.  Therefore  He  delivered  them  over  to  a 
schoolmaster,  that  they  might  not  despise  Him- 
self as  a  tender,  loving  Father.    See  then  that  they 


278 


WORKS   OF   ST.   CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  IV. 


feared  him  only ;  for  they  said  not,  Where  is  God  ? 
but,  Where  is  Moses?  and  his  very  presence 
was  fearful.  So  when  they  did  amiss,  observe 
how  he  punished  them.  For  God  indeed  was 
desirous  of  casting  them  off;  but  he  would  not 
permit  Him.  Or  rather  the  whole  was  of  God ; 
just  as  when  a  Father  threatens  whilst  a  school- 
master entreats  Him,  and  says,  "  Forgive  them, 
I  pray,  on  my  account,  and  henceforward  J  un- 
dertake for  them."  In  this  way  was  the  wilder- 
ness a  school.  And  as  children  who  have  been 
a  long  while  at  school  are  desirous  of  quitting 
it,  so  also  were  they  at  that  time  continually 
desiring  Egypt,  and  weeping,  saying,  "  We  are 
lost,  we  are  wholly  consumed,  we  are  utterly 
undone."  (Ex.  xvi.  3.)  And  Moses  broke 
their  tablet,  having  written  for  them,  as  it  were, 
certain  words  (Ex.  xxxii.  19) ;  just  as  a  school- 
master would  do,  who  having  taken  up  the  writ- 
ing tablet,  and  found  it  badly  written,  throws 
away  the  tablet  itself,  desiring  to  show  great 
anger ;  and  if  he  have  broken  it,  the  father  is 
not  angry.  For  he  indeed  was  busy  writing,  but 
they  not  attending  to  him,  but  turning  them- 
selves other  ways,  were  committing  disorder. 
And  as  in  school,  they  strike  each  other,  so  also, 
on  that  occasion,  he  bade  them  strike  and  slay 
each  other.  And  again,  having  given  them  as 
it  were  lessons  to  learn,  then  asking  for  them, 
and  finding  they  had  not  learnt  them,  he  would 
punish  them.  For  instance.  What  writings 
were  those  that  denoted  the  power  of  God? 
The  events  in  Egypt?  Yes,  saith  one,  but  these 
writings  represented  the  plagues,  that  He  pun- 
ishes His  enemies.  And  to  them  it  was  a 
school.  For  what  else  was  the  punishment  of 
your  enemies  but  your  benefit?  And  in  other 
respects  too,  He  benefited  you.  And  it  was 
the  same  as  if  one  should  say  he  knew  his  letters, 
but  when  asked  up  and  down,  should  be  at  fault, 
and  be  beaten.  So  they  also  said  indeed  that 
they  knew  the  power  of  God,  but  when  asked 
their  knowledge  up  and  down,  they  could  not 
give  it,  and  therefore  were  beaten.  Hast  thou 
seen  water?  Thou  oughtest  to  be  reminded  of 
the  water  in  Egypt.  For  He  that  of  water  made 
blood,  will  be  also  of  power  to  do  this.1  As  we 
also  say  often  to  the  children, "  when  in  a  book 
thou  seest  the  letter  A,  remember  that  thou 
hadst  it  in  thy  tablet."  Hast  thou  seen  famine? 
Remember  that  it  was  He  that  destroyed  the 
crops  !  Hast  thou  seen  wars  ?  Remember  the 
drowning  !  Hast  thou  seen  that  they  are  mighty 
who  inhabit  the  land?  But  not  mightier  than 
the  Egyptians.  He  who  took  thee  out  of  the 
midst  of  them,  will  He  not  much  more  save  thee 
when  out?  But  they -knew  not  how  to  answer 
their  letters  out  of  order,  and  therefore  they  were 
beaten.    "  They  ate,"  and  drank,  "  and  kicked." 

1  Or,  "  to  produce  this,"  if  he  refers  to  the  want  of  water. 


(Deut.  xxxii.  15.)  When  fed  with  their  manna 
they  ought  not  to  have  asked  for  luxury,  seeing 
they  had  known  the  evils  which  proceed  from  it. 
And  they  acted  precisely  as  if  a  free  child,  when 
sent  to  school,  should  ask  to  be  reckoned  with 
the  slaves,  and  to  wait  on  them,  —  so  did  these 
also  in  seeking  Egypt  —  and  when  receiving  all 
needful  sustenance,  and  such  as  becomes  a  free 
person,  and  sitting  at  his  father's  table,  should 
have  a  longing  for  the  ill-savored  and  noisy  one 
of  the  servants.  And  they  said  to  Moses,  "  Yea, 
Lord,  all  that  thou  hast  spoken  will  we  do,  and 
be  obedient."  (Ex.  xxiv.  7.)  And  as  it  hap- 
pens in  the  case  of  desperately  bad  children, 
that  when  the  father  would  put  them  to  death,8 
the  schoolmaster  perseveringly  entreats  for  them, 
the  same  was  the  case  at  that  time  also. 

Why  have  we  said  these  things?  Because  we 
differ  in  nothing  from  children.  Wilt  thou  hear 
their  doctrines  also,  that  they  are  those  of  chil- 
dren? "  Eye  for  eye,"  it  is  said,  "and  tooth  for 
tooth."  (Lev.  xxiv.  20.)  For  nothing  is  so 
eager  to  revenge  as  a  childish  mind.  For  see- 
ing it  is  a  passion  of  irrationality,  and  there  is 
much  irrationality,  and  great  lack  of  considera- 
tion in  that  age,  no  wonder  the  child  is  tyran- 
nized over  by  anger ;  and  so  great  is  the  tyranny, 
that  ofttimes  after  stumbling  and  getting  up 
again,  they  will  smite  their  knee  for  passion,  or 
overturn  the  footstool,  and  so  will  allay  their 
pain,  and  quench  their  rage.  In  some  such 
way  as  this  did  God  also  deal  with  them,  when 
He  allowed  them  to  strike  out  "  Eye  for  eye, 
and  tooth  for  tooth,"  and  destroyed  the  Egyp- 
tians and  the  Amalekites  that  had  grieved  them. 
And  He  promised  such  things ;  as  if  to  one  who 
said,  "  Father,  such  and  such  an  one  has  beaten 
me,"  the  father  should  then  reply,  "  Such  and 
such  an  one  is  a  bad  man,  and  let  us  hate  him." 
So  also  doth  God  say, "  I  will  be  their  enemy 
that  are  thine  enemies,  and  I  will  hate  them  that 
hate  thee."  (Ex.  xxiii.  22.)  And  again,  when 
Balaam  prayed,  the  condescension  which  was 
used  towards  them  was  childish.  For  as  with 
children,  when  having  been  frightened  at  any- 
thing not  frightful,  such  as  either  a  lock  of  wool, 
or  any  other  thing  of  like  sort,  they  are  sud- 
denly alarmed  ;  that  their  fear  may  not  continue 
in  them,  we  bring  the  thing  up  to  their  hands, 
and  make  their  nurses  show  it  them  :  so  also  did 
God ;  seeing  that  the  Prophet  was  a  terror  to 
them,  he  turned  the  terror  of  him  into  confi- 
dence. And  as  children  who  are  under  weaning 
have  all  manner  of  things  in  little  baskets,  so 
also  did  He  give  them  everything,  and  dain- 
ties in  abundance.  Still  the  child  longs  for  the 
breast ;  so  did  these  also  for  Egypt  and  the  flesh 
that  was  there. 


'  avtXtiv.    Perhaps  he  means  no  more  than  to  renounce  or  dis- 
inherit, as  he  said  above. 


Homily  V.] 


HOMILIES   ON   COLOSSIANS. 


279 


So  that  one  would  not  be  wrong  in  calling 
Moses  both  a  teacher,  and  a  nursing-father,  and 
a  conductor  (Ex.  xvi.  3;  Num.  xi.  4,  5);  the 
man's  wisdom  was  great.     Howbeit  it  is  not  the 
same  thing  to  guide  men  who  are  already  philos- 
ophers, and  to  rule  unreasoning  children.     And, 
if  you  are  inclined  to  hear  yet  another  particular ; 
as  the  nurse  says  to  the  child,  When  thou  easest 
thyself,  take  up  thy  garments,  and  for  as  long  as 
thou  sittest,  so  also  did  Moses.   (Deut.  xxiii.  13.) 
For  all  the  passions  are  tyrannous  in  children 
(for  as  yet  they  have  not  that  which  is  to  bri- 
dle them),  vainglory,  desire,  irrationality,  anger, 
envy ;  just  as  in  children,  so  they  prevailed  ;  they 
spat  upon,  they  beat,  Moses.      And  as  a  child 
takes  up  a  stone,  and  we  all  exclaim,  O  do  not 
throw  it ;  so  did  they  also  take  up  stones  against 
their  father;  and  he  fled  from  them.     And  as, 
if  a  father  have  any  ornament,  the  child,  being 
fond  of  ornament,  asks  him  for  it,  in  like  man- 
ner, truly,  did  the  party  of  Dathan  and  Abiram 
act,  when  they  rebelled  for  the  priesthood.  ( Num. 
xvi.)    And  besides,  they  were  of  all  people  the 
most  envious,  and  little-minded,  and  in  all  re- 
spects imperfect. 

Ought  then  Christ,  tell  me,  to  have  appeared 
at  that  time,  at  that  time  to  have  given  them 
these  teachings  of  true  wisdom,  when  they  were 
raging  with  lust,  when  they  were  as  horses  mad 
for  the  mare,  when  they  were  the  slaves  of  money, 
of  the  belly  ?    Nay,  He  would  but  have  wasted 


his  lessons  of  wisdom  in  discoursing  with  those 
of  no  understanding ;  and  they  would  have  nei- 
ther learnt  one  thing  nor  the  other.  And  as 
he  who  teaches  to  read  before  he  has  taught 
the  alphabet,  will  never  teach  even  so  much 
as  the  alphabet ;  so  indeed  would  it  then  have 
been  also.  But  not  so  now,  for  by  the  grace 
of  God  much  forbearance,  much  virtue,  hath 
been  planted  everywhere.  Let  us  give  thanks 
then  for  all  things,  and  not  be  over  curious.  For 
it  is  not  we  that  know  the  due  time,  but  He, 
The  Maker  of  the  time,  and  The  Creator  of  the 
ages. 

In  everything  then  yield  we  to  Him  :  for  this 
is  to  glorify  God,  not  to  demand  of  Him  an 
account  of  what  He  doeth.  In  this  way  too 
did  Abraham  give  glory  to  God;  "And  being 
fully  persuaded,"  we  read,  "  that  what  He  had 
promised,  He  was  able  to  perform."  (Rom. 
iv.  21.)  He  did  not  ask  about  the  future  even ; 
but  we  scrutinize  the  account  even  of  the  past. 
See  how  great  folly,  how  great  ingratitude,  is 
here.  But  let  us  for  the  future  have  done,  for 
no  gain  comes  of  it,  but  much  harm  even ;  and 
let  our  minds  be  gratefully  disposed  towards  our 
Master,  and  let  us  send  up  glory  to  God,  that 
making  for  all  things  an  offering  of  thanksgiving, 
we  may  be  counted  worthy  of  His  lovingkind- 
ness,  through  the  grace  and  love  toward  man  of 
His  Only-begotten,  with  whom,  &c. 


HOMILY    V. 


COLOSSIANS  i.    26-28. 


*  Even  the  mystery  which  hath  been  hid  from  all  ages 
and  generations :  but  now  hath  it  been  manifested 
to  His  saints,  to  whom  God  was  pleased  to  make 
known  what  is  the  riches  of  the  glory  of  this  mys- 
tery among  the  Gentiles,  which  is  Christ  in  you,  the 
hope  of  glory:  whom  we  proclaim,  admonishing 
every  man,  and  teaching  every  man  in  all  wisdom, 
that  we  may  present  every  man  perfect  in  Christ." 

Having  said  what  we  have  come  to,  and 
showed  the  lovingkindness  of  God  and  the 
honor,  by  the  greatness  of  the  things  given,  he 
introduces  yet  another  consideration  that 
heightens  them,  namely,  that  neither  before  us 
did  any  one  know  Him.1  As  he  doth  also  in  the 
Epistle  to  the  Ephesians,  saying,  neither  Angels, 
aor  principalities,  nor  any  other  created  power, 
but  only  the  Son  of  God  knew.  (Eph.  iii.  5,  9, 

,  '  [Or, "  know  it,"  a  reading  having  some  support,  and  adopted 
qrKdd.— J.  A.  B.] 


10.)  And  he  said,  not  simply  hid,  but  "quite 
hid,"  and  that  even  if  it  hath  but  now  come  to 
pass,  yet  it  is  of  old,  and  from  the  beginning 
God  willed  these  things,  and  they  were  so 
planned  out ;  but  why,  he  saith  not  yet.  "  From 
the  ages,"  from  the  beginning,  as  one  might  say. 
And  with  reason  he  calleth  that  a  mystery,  which 
none  knew,  save  God.  And  where  hid?  In 
Christ ;  as  he  saith  in  the  Epistle  to  the  Ephe- 
sians (Eph.  iii.  9),  or  as  when  the  Prophet 
saith,  "  From  everlasting  even  to  everlasting 
Thou  art."  (Ps.  xc.  2.)  But  now  hath  been 
manifested,  he  saith,  "  to  His  saints."  So  that  it 
is  altogether  of  the  dispensation  of  God.  "  But 
now  hath  been  manifested,"  he  saith.  He  saith 
not,  "  is  come  to  pass,"  but,  "  hath  been  mani- 
fested to  His  saints."  So  that  it  is  even  now 
still  hid,  since  it  hath  been  manifested  to  His 
saints  alone. 


■d 


28o 


WORKS   OF   ST.   CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  V. 


Let  not  others  therefore  deceive  you,  for  they 
know  not.  Why  to  them  alone?  "To  whom 
He  was  pleased,"  he  saith.  See  how  every- 
where He  stops  the  mouth  of  their  questions. 
"  To  whom  God  was  pleased  to  make  known," 
he  saith.  Yet  His  will  is  not  without  reason. 
By  way  of  making  them  accountable  for  grace, 
rather  than  allowing  them  to  have  high  thoughts, 
as  though  it  were  of  their  own  achieving,  he  said, 
"  To  whom  he  was  pleased  to  make  known." 
"  What  is  the  riches  of  the  glory  of  this  mystery 
among  the  Gentiles."  He  hath  spoken  loftily, 
and  accumulated  emphasis,  seeking,  out  of  his 
great  earnestness,  for  amplification  upon  ampli- 
fication. For  this  also  is  an  amplification,  the 
saying  indefinitely,  "  The  riches  of  the  glory  of 
this  mystery  among  the  Gentiles."  For  it  is 
most  of  all  apparent  among  the  Gentiles,  as  he 
also  says  elsewhere,  "And  that  the  Gentiles 
might  glorify  God  for  His  mercy."  (Rom.  xv. 
9.)  For  the  great  glory  of  this  mystery  is  ap- 
parent among  others  also,  but  much  more 
among  these.  For,  on  a  sudden,  to  have  brought 
men  more  senseless  than  stones  to  the  dignity  of 
Angels,  simply  through  bare  words,  and  faith 
alone,  without  any  laboriousness,  is  indeed  glory 
and  riches  of  mystery :  just  as  if  one  were  to 
take  a  dog,  quite  consumed  with  hunger  and  the 
mange,  foul,  and  loathsome  to  see,  and  not  so 
much  as  able  to  move,  but  lying  cast  out,  and 
make  him  all  at  once  into  a  man,  and  to  display 
him  upon  the  royal  throne.  They  were  wont  to 
worship  stones  and  the  earth  ;  but  they  learned 
that  themselves  are  better  both  than  the  heaven 
and  the  sun,  and  that  the  whole  world  serveth 
them ;  they  were  captives  and  prisoners  of  the 
devil :  on  a  sudden  they  are  placed  above  his 
head,  and  lay  commands  on  him  and  scourge 
him  :  from  being  captives  and  slaves  to  demons, 
they  are  become  the  body  of  The  Master  of  the 
Angels  and  the  Archangels;  from  not  knowing 
even  what  God  is,  they  are  become  all  at  once 
sharers  even  in  God's  throne.  Wouldest  thou 
see  the  countless  steps  they  overleaped  ?  First, 
they  had  to  learn  that  stones  are  not  gods; 
secondly,  that  they  not  only  are  not  gods,  but 
inferior  even  to  men ;  thirdly,  to  brutes  even ; 
fourthly,  to  plants  even ;  fifthly,  they  brought 
together  the  extremes : *  that  not  only  stones 
but  not  earth  even,  nor  animals,  nor  plants,  nor 
man,  nor  heaven ;  or,  to  begin  again,  that  not 
stones,  not  animajs,  not  plants,  not  elements, 
not  things  above,  not  things  below,  not  man, 
not  demons,  not  Angels,  not  Archangels,  not 
any  of  those  Powers  above,  ought  to  be  wor- 
shiped by  the  nature  of  man.  Being  drawn 
up,2  as  it  were,  from  some  deep,  they  had  to 

1  on  Ti  ax  pa  avvTJyayov  *f?  rainov.  There  is  no  authority  for 
thus  omitting  on.  It  may  mean,  "  That  I  (i.e.  God)  have  brought 
together  the  extremes  into  one,  and  not,"  &c. 

3  atnpwpe'i'of.    Compare  Plato,  Rep.  lib.  vii.  init. 


learn  that  the  Lord  of  all,  He  is  God,  that  Him 
alone  is  it  right  to  worship;  that  the  virtuous 
life8  is  a  good  thing;  that  this  present  death  is 
not  death,  nor  this  life,  life;  that  the  body  is 
raised,  that  it  becomes  incorruptible,  that  it  will 
ascend  into  heaven,  that  it  obtains  even  immor- 
tality, that  it  standeth  with  Angels,  that  it  is  re- 
moved thither.  But  Him  who  was  there  below, 
having  cleared  at  a  bound  all  these  steps,  He 
has  placed  on  high  upon  the  throne,  having 
made  Him  that  was  lower  than  the  stones,  higher 
in  dominion  than  the  Angels,  and  the  Arch- 
angels, and  the  thrones,  and  the  dominions. 
Truly  "  What  is  the  riches  of  the  glory  of  this 
mystery? "  Just  as  if  one  should  show  a  fool  to 
be  all  at  once  made  a  philosopher ;  yea  rather, 
whatsoever  one  should  say,  it  would  be  as  noth- 
ing :  for  even  the  words  of  Paul  are  undefined. 
"  What  is  the  riches,"  he  saith,  "  of  the  glory  of 
this  mystery  among  the  Gentiles,  which  is  Christ 
in  you?"  Again,  they  had  to  learn  that  He 
who  is  above,  and  who  ruleth  Angels  and  do- 
minions, and  all  the  other  Powers,  came  down 
below,  and  was  made  Man,  and  suffered  count- 
less things,  and  rose  again,  and  was  received 
up. 

All  these  things  were  of  the  mystery;  and  he 
sets  them  down  together  with  lofty  praise,  say- 
ing, "  Which  is  Christ  in  you? "  But  if  He  be 
in  you,  why  seek  ye  Angels?  "  Of  this  mystery." 
For  there  are  other  mysteries  besides.  But  this 
is  really  a  mystery,  which  no  one  knew,  which  is 
marvelous,  which  is  beside  the  common  expecta- 
tion, which  was  hid.  "  Which  is  Christ  in  you," 
he  saith,  "the  hope  of  glory,  whom  we  pro- 
claim," bringing  Him  from  above.  "Whom 
we,"  not  Angels  :  "  teaching  "  and  "  admonish- 
ing "  :  not  imperiously  nor  using  constraint,  for 
this  too  is  of  God's  lovingkindness  to  men,  not 
to  bring  them  to  Him  after  the  manner  of  a 
tyrant.  Seeing  it  was  a  great  thing  he  had  said, 
"teaching,"  he  added,  "admonishing,"  which  is 
rather  like  a  father  than  an  instructor.  "  Whom," 
saith  he,  "  we  proclaim,  admonishing  every  man, 
and  teaching  every  man  in  all  wisdom."  So 
that  all  wisdom  is  needed.  That  is,  saying  all 
things  in  wisdom.  For  the  ability  to  learn  such 
things  exists  not  in  every  one.  "  That  we  may 
present  every  man  perfect  in  Christ  Jesus." 
What  sayest  thou,  "every  man"?  Yea;  this  is 
what  we  are  earnestly  desirous  of  doing,  he 
saith.  For  what,  if  this  do  not  come  to  pass? 
the  blessed  Paul  endeavored.  "Perfect."  This 
then  is  perfection,  the  other  is  imperfect :  so 
that  if  one  have  not  even  the  whole  of  wisdom, 
he  is  imperfect.  "  Perfect  in  Christ  Jesus,"  not 
in  the  Law,  nor  in  Angels,  for  that  is  not  per- 

3  kolXov  if  davfiatrryi  iroAirei'a.  Lit.  "  the  admirable  conversation 
[course  of  life]."  He  seems  to  mean  a  life  of  Virginity,  which  he 
says  is  peculiar  to  the  Gospel;  lib.  cont.  Judaeos  97;  Ben.  t.  i.  p- 
568  a;  and  elsewhere,  as  on  Rom.  viii.  7,  Horn.  xiii. 


Homily  V.] 


HOMILIES   ON   COLOSSIANS. 


281 


fection.  "  In  Christ,"  that  is,  in  the  knowledge 
of  Christ.  For  he  that  knows  what  Christ  has 
done,  will  have  higher  thoughts  than  to  be  satis- 
fied with  Angels. 

"In  Christ  Jesus";  Ver.  29.  "Whereunto  I 
labor  also,  striving."    And  he  said  not,  "  I  am 
desirous"  merely,  nor  in  any  indifferent  way, 
but,  "  I  labor,  striving,"  with  great  earnestness, 
with  much  watching.     If  I,  for  your  good,  thus 
watch,  much  more  ought  ye.    Then  again,  show- 
ing that  it  is  of  God,  he  saith,  "according  to 
His  working  which  worketh  in  me  mightily." 
He  shows  that  this  is  the  work  of  God.     He, 
now,  that  makes  me  strong  for  this,  evidently 
wills  it     Wherefore   also   when  beginning  he 
saith,  "Through  the  will  of  God."    (Ver.  1.)    So 
that  it  is  not  only  out  of  modesty  he  so  expresses 
himself,  but  insisting  on  the  truth  of  the  Word 
as  well.     "  And  striving."     In   saying  this,  he 
shows  that  many  are  fighting  against  him.   Then 
great  is  his  tender  affection. 

Chap.  ii.  v.  1.  "For  I  would  have  you  know 
how  greatly  I  strive  for  you,  and  for  them  at 
Laodicea." 

Then  lest  this  should  seem  owing  to  their 
peculiar  weakness,  he  joined  others  also  with 
them,  and  as  yet  condemned  them  not.  But 
why  does  he  say,  "  And  as  many  as  have  not 
seen  my  face  in  the  flesh"?  He  shows  here 
after  a  divine  manner,  that  they  saw  him  con- 
stantly in  the  Spirit.  And  he  bears  witness  to 
their  great  love. 

Ver.  2,  3.  "  That  their  hearts  may  be  com- 
forted, they  being  knit  together  in  love,  and 
uato  all  riches  of  the  full  assurance  of  under- 
standing, that  they  may  know  the  mystery  of 
God  the  Father,1  and  of  Christ :  in  whom  are 
all  the  treasures  of  wisdom  and  knowledge 
hidden." 

Now  henceforward  he  is  hastening  and  in 
pangs  to  enter  upon  the  doctrine,  neither  accus- 
ing them,  nor  clearing  them  of  accusation.  "  I 
strive,"  he  saith.  To  what  end?  That  they 
Nay  be  knit  together.  What  he  means  is  some- 
thing like  this ;  that  they  may  stand  firm  in  the 
&th.  He  doth  not  however  so  express  himself; 
J>ut  extenuates  the  matter  of  accusation.  That 
^  that  they  may  be  united  with  love,  not  with 
necessity  nor  with  force.  For  as  I  have  said, 
«e  always  avoids  offending,  by  leaving  it  to 
themselves;*  and  therefore  "striving,"  because 
J  wish  it  to  be  with  love,  and  willingly.  For  I 
do  not  wish  it  to  be  with  the  lips  merely,  nor 
^rely  that  they  shall  be  brought  together,  but 
"that  their  hearts  may  be  comforted." 

"Being  knit  together  in  love  unto  all  riches 
tfjhe  full  assurance  of  understanding. "     That 

,  *  Rec.  text  koI  varpK,  E.  V.  "  of  God,  and  of  the  Father";  but 
"*  *n«e  in  either  case  is,  of  Him  Who  is  God  and  Father. 

«nrp«*ttp,  i.e.  to  draw  such  inferences  as  would  be  harsh  if 
«««i  by  himself. 


is,  that  they  may  doubt  about  nothing,  that  they 
may  be  fully  assured  in  all  things.  But  I  meant 
full  assurance  which  is  by  faith,  for  there  is  a 
full  assurance  which  cometh  by  arguments,  but 
that  is  worthy  of  no  consideration.  I  know,  he 
saith,  that  ye  believe,  but  I  would  have  you  fully 
assured  :  not  "  unto  riches  "  only,  but  "  unto  all 
riches  "  ;  that  your  full  assurance  may  be  intense, 
as  well  as  in  all  things.  And  observe  the  wisdom 
of  this  blessed  one.  He  said  not,  "  Ye  do  ill 
that  ye  are  not  fully  assured,"  nor  accused  them ; 
but,  ye  know  not  how  desirous  I  am  that  ye 
may  be  fully  assured,  and  not  merely  so,  but 
with  understanding.  For  seeing  he  spoke  of 
faith  ;  suppose  not,  he  saith,  that  I  meant  barely 
and  unprofitably,  but  with  understanding  and 
love.  "That  they  may  know  the  mystery  of 
God  the  Father  and  of  Christ."  So  that  this  is 
the  mystery  of  God,  the  being  brought  unto  Him 
by  the  Son.  "  And  of  Christ,  in  whom  are  hid 
all  the  treasures  of  wisdom  and  knowledge." 
But  if  they  are  in  Him,  then  wisely  also  no 
doubt  He  came  at  this  time.  Wherefore  then 
do  some  foolish  persons  object  to  Him,  "See 
how  He  discourseth  with  the  simpler  sort."  "  In 
whom  are  all  the  treasures."  He  himself  knows 
all  things.  "  Hid,"  for  think  not  in  truth  that 
ye  already  have  all ;  they  are  hidden  also  even 
from  Angels,  not  from  you  only;  so  that  you 
ought  to  ask  all  things  from  Him.  He  himself 
giveth  wisdom  and  knowledge.  Now  by  saying, 
"  treasures,"  he  shows  their  largeness,  by  "  All," 
that  He  is  ignorant  of  nothing,  by  "  hid,"  that 
He  alone  knoweth. 

Ver.  4.  "  This  I  say,  that  no  one  may  delude 
you  with  persuasiveness  of  speech." 

Seest  thou  that  he  saith,  I  have  therefore  said 
this,  that  ye  may  not  seek  it  from  men.  "  De- 
lude you,"  he  saith,  "with  persuasiveness  of 
speech."  For  what  if  any  doth  speak,  and 
speak  persuasively? 

Ver.  5.  "For  though  I  am  absent  in  the 
flesh,  yet  am  I  with  you  in  the  spirit." 

The  direct  thing  to  have  said  here  was,  "  even 
though  I  be  absent  in  the  flesh,  yet,  neverthe- 
less, I  know  the  deceivers  "  ;  but  instead  he  has 
ended  with  praise,  "  Joying  and  beholding  your 
order,  and  the  steadfastness  of  your  faith  in 
Christ."  "Your  order,"  he  means,  your  good 
order.  "  And  the  steadfastness  of  your  faith  in 
Christ."  This  is  still  more  in  the  way  of  enco- 
mium. And  he  said  not  "  faith,"  but  steadfast- 
ness, as  to  soldiers  standing  in  good  order  and 
firmly.  Now  that  which  is  steadfast,  neither 
deceit  nor  trial  can  shake  asunder.  Not  only, 
he  saith,  have  ye  not  fallen,  but  no  one  hath  so 
much  as  thrown  you  into  disorder.  He  hath 
set  himself  over  them,  that  they  may  fear  him 
as  though  present ;  for  thus  is  order  preserved. 
From  solidity  follows  compactedness,  for  you 


282 


WORKS   OF   ST.    CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  V. 


will  then  produce  solidity,  when  having  brought 
many  things  together,  you  shall  cement  them 
compactedly  and  inseparably ;  thus  a  solidity  is 
produced,  as  in  the  case  of  a  wall.  But  this  is 
the  peculiar  work  of  love ;  for  those  who  were 
"by  themselves,  when  it  hath  closely  cemented 
and  knit  them  together,  it  renders  solid.  And 
faith,  again,  doeth  the  same  thing;  when  it 
allows  not  reasonings  to  intrude  themselves. 
For  as  reasonings  divide,  and  shake  loose,  so 
faith  causes  .solidity  and  compactness. 

For  seeing  God  hath  bestowed  upon  us  bene- 
fits surpassing  man's  reasoning,  suitably  enough 
He  hath  brought  in  faith.  It  is  not  possible  to 
be  steadfast,  when  demanding  reasons.  For 
behold  all  our  lofty  doctrines,  how  destitute  they 
are  of  reasonings,  and  dependent  upon  faith 
alone.  God  is  not  anywhere,  and  is  every- 
where. What  hath  less  reason  in  it  than  this? 
Each  by  itself  is  full  of  difficulty.  For,  indeed, 
He  is  not  in  place ;  nor  is  there  any  place  in 
which  He  is.  He  was  not  made,  He  made  not 
Himself,  He  never  began  to  be.  What  reason- 
ing will  receive  this,  if  there  be  not  faith  ?  Does 
it  not  seem  to  be  utterly  ridiculous,  and  more 
endless  than  a  riddle  ? 

Now  that  He  hath  no  beginning,  and  is  un- 
create,  and  uncircumscribed,  and  infinite,  is,  as 
we  have  said,  a  manifest  difficulty;  but  let  us 
consider  His  incorporealness,  whether  we  can 
search  out  this  by  reasoning.  God  is  incor- 
poreal. What  is  incorporeal?  A  bare  word, 
and  no  more,  for  the  apprehension  has  received 
nothing,  has  impressed  nothing  upon  itself;  for 
if  it  does  so  impress,  it  comes,  to  nature,  and 
what  constitutes  body.  So  that  the  mouth  speaks 
indeed,  but  the  understanding  knows  not  what 
it  speaks,  save  one  thing  only,  that  it  is  not 
body,  this  is  all  it  knows.  And  why  do  I  speak 
of  God?  In  the  case  of  the  soul,  which  is 
created,  inclosed,  circumscribed,  what  is  incor- 
porealness ?  say  !  show  !  Thou  canst  not.  Is  it 
air?  But  air  is  body,  even  though  it  be  not 
compact,  and  it  is  plain  from  many  proofs  that 
it  is  a  yielding  body.  Fire  is  body,  whilst  the 
energy  of  the  soul  is  bodiless.  Wherefore? 
Since  it  penetrateth  everywhere.  If  it  is  not1 
itself  body,  then  that  which  is  incorporeal  exists 
in  place,  therefore  it  is  circumscribed ;  and  that 
which  is  circumscribed  has  figure ;  and  figures 
are  linear,  and  lines  belong  to  bodies.  Again, 
that  which  is  without  figure,  what  conception 
does  it  admit?  It  has  no  figure,  no  form,  no 
outline.  Seest  thou  how  the  understanding  be- 
comes dizzy? 

Again,  That  Nature  [viz.  God's]  is  not  sus- 
ceptible of  evil.  But  He  is  also  good  of  His 
own  will ;  it  is  therefore  susceptible.     But  one 

1  Savile  conjectures  that"  not " should  be  inserted,  and  the  sense 
seems  absolutely  to  require  it. 


may  not  so  say,  far  be  it !  Again,  was  He 
brought  into  being,  willing  it,  or  not  willing  it  ? 
But  neither  may  one  say  this.  Again,  circum- 
scribes He  the  world,  or  no?  If  He  circum- 
scribes it  not,  He  is  Himself  circumscribed,  but 
if  He  circumscribes  it,  He  is  infinite  in  His 
nature.  Again,  circumscribes  He  Himself?  If 
He  circumscribes  Himself,  then  He  is  not 
without  beginning  to  Himself,  but  to  us; 
therefore  He  is  not  in  His  nature  without 
beginning.  Everywhere  one  must  grant  con- 
tradictories. 

Seest  thou  how  great  the  darkness  is ;  and 
how  everywhere  there  is  need  of  faith.  This  it 
is,  that  is  solid.  But,  if  you  will,  let  us  come  to 
things  which  are  less  than  these.  That  Sub- 
stance hath  an  operation.  And  what  in  His 
case  is  operation?  Is  it  a  certain  motion? 
Then  He  is  not  immutable :  for  that  which  is 
moved,  is  not  immutable :  for,  from  being 
motionless  it  becomes  in  motion.  But  never- 
theless He  is  in  motion,  and  never  stands  still. 
But  what  kind  of  motion,  tell  me ;  for  amongst 
us  there  are  seven  kinds;  down,  up,  in,  out, 
right,  left,  circular,  or,  if  not  this,  increase,  de- 
crease, generation,  destruction,  alteration.  But 
is  His  motion  none  of  these,  but  such  as  the 
mind  is  moved  with  ?  No,  nor  this  either.  Far 
be  it !  for  in  many  things  the  mind  is  even  ab- 
surdly moved.  Is  to  will,  to  operate,  or  not? 
If  to  will  is  to  operate,  and  He  wills  all  men  to  be 
good,  and  to  be  «saved  ( i  Tim.  ii.  4),  how  comes 
it  not  to  pass?  But  to  will  is  one  thing,  to 
operate,  another.  To  will  then  is  not  sufficient 
for  operation.  How  then  saith  the  Scripture, 
"  He  hath  done  whatsoever  He  willed  "?  (Ps. 
cxv.  3.)  And  again,  the  leper  saith  unto  Christ, 
"If  Thou  wilt,  Thou  canst  make  me  clean." 
(Matt.  viii.  2.)  For  if  this  follows  in  company 
with  the  will,  what  is  to  be  said?  Will  ye  that 
I  mention  yet  another  thing?  How  were  the 
things  that  are,  made  out  of  things  that  are  not  ? 
How  will  they  be  resolved  into  nothing  ?  What 
is  above  the  heaven?  And  again,  what  above 
that  ?  and  what  above  that  ?  and  beyond  that  ? 
and  so  on  to  infinity.  What  is  below  the  earth  ? 
Sea,  and  beyond  this,  what?  and  beyond  that 
again?  Nay;  to  the  right,  and  to  the  left,  is 
there  not  the  same  difficulty? 

But  these  indeed  are  things  unseen.  Will  ye 
that  I  lead  the  discourse  to  those  which  are 
seen;  those  which  have  already  happened? 
Tell  me,  how  did  the  beast  contain  Jonah  in  its 
belly,  without  his  perishing?  Is  it  not  void  of 
reason,  and  its  motions  without  control?  How 
spared  it  the  righteous  man  ?  How  was  it  that 
the  heat  did  not  suffocate  him?  How  was  it 
that  it  putrefied  him  not?  For  if  to  be  in  the 
deep  only,  is  past  contriving,  to  be  both  in  the 
creature's  bowels,  and  in  that  heat,  is  very  far 


Homily  V.] 


HOMILIES   ON   COLOSSIANS. 


283 


more  unaccountable.  If  from  within  we  breathe l 
the  air,  how  did  the  respiration  suffice  for  two 
animals?  And  how  did  it  also  vomit  him  forth 
unharmed  ?  And  how  too  did  he  speak  ?  And 
how  too  was  he  self-possessed,  and  prayed? 
Are  not  these  things  incredible?  If  we  test 
them  by  reasonings,  they  are  incredible,  if  by 
faith,  they  are  exceeding  credible. 

Shall  I  say  something  more  than  this  ?    The 
wheat  in  the  earth's  bosom  decays,  and  rises 
again.     Behold  marvels,  opposite,  and  each  sur- 
passing the  other ;  marvelous  is  the  not  becom- 
ing corrupted,  marvelous,  after  becoming  so,  is 
the  rising  again.     Where  are  they  that  make 
sport  of  such  things,  and  disbelieve  the  Resur- 
rection and  say,  This  bone  how  shall  it  be  ce- 
mented to  that?  and  introduce  such  like  silly 
tales.    Tell  me,   how  did   Elias  ascend  in  a 
chariot  of  fire  ?     Fire  is  wont  to  burn,  not  to 
cany  aloft.     How  lives  he  so  long  a  time  ?     In 
what  place  is  he  ?    Why  was  this  done  ?   Whither 
was  Enoch  translated?     Lives  he  on  like  food 
with  us?  and  what  is  it  hinders  him  from  being 
here?    Nay,  but  does  he  not  eat?    And  where- 
fore was  he  translated  ?  Behold  how  God  school- 
cth  us  by  little  and  little.     He  translated  Enoch ; 
no  very  great  thing  that.     This   instructed   us 
for  the  taking  up  of  Elias.     He  shut  in  Noe 
into  the  ark  (Gen.  vii.    7)  ;  nor  is  this  either 
any  very  great  thing.     This   instructed  us  for 
the  shutting  up  of  the  prophet  within  the  whale. 
Thus  even  the  things  of  old  stood  in  need  of 
forerunners  and  types.     For  as  in  a  ladder  the 
first  step  sends  on  to  the  second,  and  from  the 
first  it  is  not  possible  to  step  to  the  fourth,  and 
this  sends  one  on  to  that,  that  that  may  be  the 
▼ay  to  the  next ;  and  as  it  is  not  possible  either 
to  get  to  the  second  before  the  first ;  so  also  is 
it  here. 

And  observe  the  signs  of  signs,  and  thou  wilt 
discern  this  in  the  ladder  which  Jacob  saw. 
"Above,"  it  is  said,  "the  Lord  stood  fast,  and 
underneath  Angels  were  ascending  and  descend- 
ing."     (Gen.  xxviii.   13.)     It  was  prophesied 
that  the  Father  hath  a  Son ;  it  was  necessary 
this  should  be  believed.     Whence  wouldest  thou 
that  I  show  thee  the  signs  of  this  ?     From  above, 
downward  ?     From  beneath,  upward  ?     Because 
He  begetteth  without  passion,31  for  this  reason 
did  she   that  was   barren   first  bear.     Let   us 
rather  go  higher.     It  was  necessary  to  be  be- 
lieved, that  He  begat  of  Himself.     What  then  ? 
The  thing  happens  obscurely  indeed,  as  in  type 
and  shadow,  but  still  it  doth  happen,  and  as  it 
goes  on  it  becomes  somehow  clearer.     A  woman 
is  formed  out  of  man  alone,  and  he  remains 

1  [This  is  obscure*  and  was  altered  by  the  simplifying  text  into 
M  For  bow  breathed  he  the  air  in  that  place?  How/'  &c.  —J.  A.  B.] 

*  AwmStHf  i.e.  without  being  changed.  This  refers  to  the  Eter- 
nal  Generation,  as  the  sequel  shows.  Compare  St.  Athanasius 
Ariantsm,  Disc.  1.  c.  8. 


whole  and  entire.  Again,  it  was  necessary  there 
should  be  some  sure  sign  of  the  Conception  of 
a  Virgin.  So  the  barren  beareth,  not  once  only, 
but  a  second  time  and  a  third,  and  many  times. 
Of  His  birth  then  of  a  Virgin,  the  barren  is  a 
type,  and  she  sends  the  mind  forward  to  faith. 
Again,  this  was  a  type  of  God  being  able  to 
beget  alone.  For  if  man  is  the  chief  agent,3 
and  birth  takes*  place  without  him,  in  a  more 
excellent  way,  much  rather,  is  One  begotten  of 
the  Chiefest  Agent.  There  is  still  another  gen- 
eration, which  is  a  type  of  the  Truth.  I  mean, 
ours  by  the  Spirit.  Of  this  again  the  barren  is 
a  type,  the  fact  that  it  is  not  of  blood  (John 
i.  13)  ;  this  pertains  to  the  generation  above. 
The  one  —  as  also  the  types  —  shows  that  the 
generation  is  to  be  without  passion ;  the  other, 
that  it  could  proceed  from  one  above. 

Christ  is  above,  ruling  over  all  things  :  it  was  ne- 
cessary this  should  be  believed.  The  same  takes 
place  in  the  earth  with  respect  to  man.  "  Let  Us 
make  man  after  Our  image  and  likeness  "  (Gen. 
i.  26),  for  dominion  of  all  the  brutes.  Thus  He 
instructed  us,  not  by  words,  but  by  actions. 
Paradise  showed  the  separateness  of  his  nature, 
and  that  man  was  the  best  thing  of  all.  Christ 
was  to  rise  again ;  see  now  how  many  sure  signs 
there  were ;  Enoch,  Elias,  Jonas,  the  fiery  fur- 
nace, the  case  of  Noah,  baptism,  the  seeds,  the 
plants,  our  own  generation,  that  of  all  animals. 
For  since  on  this  everything  was  at  stake,  it, 
more  than  any  other,  had  abundance  of  types. 

That  the  Universe 4  is  not  without  a  Providence 
we  may  conjecture  from  things  amongst  our- 
selves, for  nothing  will  continue  to  exist,  if  not 
provided  for;  but  even  herds,  and  all  other 
things  stand  in  need  of  governance.  And  that 
the  Universe  was  not  made  by  chance,  Hell  is 
a  proof,  and  so  was  the  deluge  in  Noah's  day, 
the  fire,5  the  overwhelming  of  the  Egyptians  in 
the  sea,  the  things  which  happened  in  the  wil- 
derness. 

It  was  necessary  too  that  many  things  should 
prepare  the  way  for  Baptism;  yea,  thousands 
of  things  ;  those,  for  instance,  in  the  Old  Testa- 
ment, those  in  the  Pool,6  the  cleansing  of  him 
that  was  not  sound  in  health,  the  deluge  itself, 
and  all  the  things  that  have  been  done  in  water, 
the  baptism  of  John. 

It  was  necessary  to  be  believed  that  God 
giveth  up  His  Son ;  a  man  did  this  by  anticipa- 
tion, Abraham  the  Patriarch.  Types  then  of 
all  these  things,  if  we  are  so  inclined,  we  shall 

*  jtvpurtTcpor  avOpwno*.  One  would  have  expected  ayrip,  but 
ayBpunroi  has  just  been  opposed  to  yvvrj. 

*  tA  ndvra.  *  i.e.  of  Sodom. 

*  Hales  suggests  that  this  may  be  the  Laver  in  the  Temple,  but 
it  is  not  called  KoKvuPrfip*  in  LXX.  The  pool  of  Bethesda  is  meant, 
as  is  evident  from  the  like  mention  of  types  increasing  in  clearness 
on  John  v.  2,  Horn,  xxxvi.  init.,  where  this  is  classed  with  those  of 
the  Old  Testament.  The  following  instance  refers  to  the  cleansing 
in  Lev.  xv.  13. 


284 


WORKS   OF   ST.   CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  VI. 


find  by  searching  in  the  Scriptures.  But  let  us 
not  be  weary,  but  attune  ourselves  by  these 
things.  Let  us  hold  the  faith  steadfastly,  and 
show  forth  strictness  of  life  :  that  having  through 
all  things  returned  thanks  to  God,  we  may  be 


counted  worthy  of  the  good  things  promised  to 
them  that  love  Him,  through  the  grace  and 
lovingkindness  of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  with 
whom,  &c. 


HOMILY   VI. 


COLOSSIANS  ii.  6,  7. 


"  As  therefore  ye  received  Christ  Jesus  the  Lord,  so  walk 
in  Him,  rooted  and  built  up  in  Him,  and  stablished 
in  your  faith,  even  as  ye  were  taught,  abounding  in 
thanksgiving." 

Again,  he  takes  hold  on  them  beforehand 
with  their  own  testimony,  saying,  "  As  therefore 
ye  received."  We  introduce  no  strange  addi- 
tion, he  saith,  neither  do  ye.  "Walk  ye  in 
Him,"  for  He  is  the  Way  that  leadeth  to  the 
Father :  not  in  the  Angels ;  this  way  leadeth  not 
thither.  "  Rooted,"  that  is,  fixed  ;  not  one  while 
going  this  way,  another  that,  but  "rooted  "  :  now 
that  which  is  rooted,  never  can  remove.  Ob- 
serve how  appropriate  are  the  expressions  he 
employs.  "And  built  up,"  that  is,  in  thought 
attaining  unto  Him.  "  And  stablished  "  in  Him, 
that  is,  holding  Him,  built  as  on  a  foundation. 
He  shows  that  they  had  fallen  down,  for  the 
word  "  built " l  has  this  force.  For  the  faith  is 
in  truth  a  building;  and  needs  both  a  strong 
foundation,  and  secure  construction.  For  both 
if  any  one  build  not  upon  a  secure  foundation 
it  will  shake ;  and  even  though  he  do,  if  it  be 
not  firm,  it  will  not  stand.  "  As  ye  were  taught." 
Again,  the  word  "  As."  "  Abounding,"  he  saith, 
"  in  thanksgiving " ;  for  this  is  the  part  of 
well-disposed  persons,  I  say  not  simply  to  give 
thanks,  but  with  great  abundance,  more  than  ye 
learned,  if  possible,  with  much  ambition. 

Ver.  8.  "Take  heed  lest  there  shall  be  any 
one  that  maketh  spoil  of  you." 

Seest  thou  how  he  shows  him  to  be*  a  thief, 
and  an  alien,  and  one  that  enters  in  softly? 
For  he  has  already  represented  him  to  be  enter- 
ing in.  "Beware."  And  he  well  said  "maketh 
spoil."  As  one  digging  away  a  mound  from 
underneath,  may  give  no  perceptible  sign,  yet  it 
gradually  settles,  so  do  you  also  beware  ;  for  this 
is  his  main  point,  not  even  to  let  himself  be 
perceived.  As  if  some  one  were  robbing  every 
day,  and  he  (the  owner  of  the  house)  were  told, 
"  Beware  lest  there  be  some  one " ;  and  he 
shows  the  way  —  through  this  way  —  as  if  we 

1  Present  participle. 


were  to  say,  through  this  chamber ;  *  so, "  through 
philosophy,"  says  he. 

Then  because  the  term  "  philosophy  "  has  an 
appearance  of  dignity,  he  added,  "  and  vain  de- 
ceit." For  there  is  also  a  good  deceit ;  such  as 
many  have  been  deceived  by,  which  one  ought 
not  even  to  call  a  deceit  at  all.  Whereof  Jere- 
miah speaks;  "O  Lord,  Thou  hast  deceived 
me,  and  I  was  deceived"3  (Jer.  xx.  7)  ;  for 
such  as  this  one  ought  not  to  call  a  deceit  at  all ; 
for  Jacob  also  deceived  his  father,  but  that  was 
not  a  deceit,  but  an  economy.  "  Through  his 
philosophy,"  he  saith,  "and  vain  deceit,  after 
the  tradition  of  men,  after  the  rudiments  4  of  the 
world,  and  not  after  Christ."  Now  he  sets  about 
to  reprove  their  observance  of  particular 5  days, 
meaning  by  elements  of  the  world  the  sun  and 
moon ;  •  as  he  also  said  in  the  Epistle  to  the 
Galatians,  "  How  turn  ye  back  again  to  the  weak 
and  beggarly  elements?"  (Gal.  iv.  9.)  And 
he  said  not  observances  of  days,  but  in  general 
of  the  present  world,  to  show  its  worthlessness : 
for  if  the  present  world  be  nothing,  much  more 
then  its  elements.  Having  first  shown  how  great 
benefits  and  kindnesses  they  had  received,  he 
afterwards  brings  on  his  accusation,  thereby  to 
show  its  greater  seriousness,  and  to  convict  his 
hearers.  Thus  too  the  Prophets  do.  They 
always  first  point  out  the  benefits,  and  then  they 
magnify  their  accusation ;  as  Esaias  saith,  "  I 
have  begotten  children,  and  exalted  them,  but 
they  have  rejected  me  "  (Isa.  i.  2,  Sept.)  ;  and 

3  [Tins  comparison,  wanting  in  all  previous  editions  of  the 
Greek,  given  by  the  Oxford  tr.  in  a  footnote,  is  found  in  all  the  MSS. 
collated  for  Field.  It  is  somewhat  obscure  (and  probably  on  that 
account  omitted  from  some  copies),  but  the  general  meaning  is  not 
hard  to  find.  —  J.  A.  B.] 

.s  [Some  documents  (followed  by  Field)  here  insert,  "  But  I  am 
not  persuaded,"  probably  an  addition  to  rescue  Chrys.  from  the  posi- 
tion of  defending  deceit.  But  he  has  done  this  elaborately  in  his 
beautiful  treatise  on  the  Priesthood,  employing  the  same  arguments 
and  expressions  as  here.  It  is  an  error  not  surprising  in  an  Asiatic 
Greek.— J.  A.  B.] 

*  <7Toiv«ia,  elements. 

*  twk  riiLtpiiv.  Montfaucon  refers  to  his  Suppl.  de  l'Ant.  Ex  pi. 
1.  iii.  vol.  1,  p.  112,  where  he  shows  that  the  observance  of  heathen 
customs  about  lucky  and  unlucky  days,  and  the  like,  was  common 
in  France  in  the  thirteenth  century.  Such  were  the  Dies  iEgyp- 
tiaci,  &c. 

0  [This  misinterpretation  is  found  in  many  Fathers.  See  Light- 
foot  here,  and  on  Gal.  iv.  9.  —  J.  A.  B.] 


Homily  VI.] 


HOMILIES  ON  COLOSSIANS. 


285 


again,  "  O  my  people,  what  have  I  done  unto 
thee,  or  wherein  have  I  grieved  thee,  or  wherein 
have  I  wearied  thee"?  (Mic.  vi.  3)  and  David  ; 
as  when  he  says,  "  I  heard  thee  in  the  secret 
place  of  the  tempest"  (Ps.  lxxxi.  7,  Sept.); 
and  again,  "  Open  thy  mouth,  and  I  will  fill  it." 
(Ps.  lxxxi.  10.)  And  everywhere  you  will  find 
it  the  same. 

That  indeed  were  most  one's  duty,  not  to  be 
persuaded  by  them,  even  did  they  say  aught  to 
the  purpose  ;  as  it  is,  however,  obligations  apart 
even,  it  would  be  our  duty  to  shun  those  things. 
"And  not  after  Christ,"  he  saith.  For  were  it 
in  such  sort  a  matter  done  by  halves,  that  ye 
were  able  to  serve  both  the  one  and  the  other, 
not  even  so  ought  ye  to  do  it ;  as  it  is,  however, 
he  suffers  you  not  to  be  "  after  Christ."  Those 
things  withdraw  you  from  Him.  Having  first 
shaken  to  pieces  the  Grecian  observances,  he 
next  overthrows  the  Jewish  ones  also.  For  both 
Greeks  and  Jews  practiced  many  observances, 
but  the  former  from  philosophy,  the  latter  from 
the  Law.  First  then,  he  makes  at  those  against 
whom  lay  the  heavier  accusation.  How,  "  not 
after  Christ "  ? 

Ver.  9,  10.  "  For  in  Him  dwelleth  all  the  full- 
ness of  the  Godhead  bodily :  and  in  Him  ye 
are  made  full,  who  is  the  head  of  all  principality 
and  power." 

Observe  how  in  his  accusing  of  the  one  he 
thrusts  through  the  other,  by  first  giving  the 
solution,  and  then  the  objection.  For  such  a 
solution  is  not  suspected,  and  the  hearer  accepts 
it  the  rather,  that  the  speaker  is  not  making  it 
his  aim.  For  in  that  case  indeed  he  would 
make  a  point  of  not  coming  off  worsted,  but  in 
this,  not  so.  "  For  in  Him  dwelleth,"  that  is, 
for  God  dwelleth  in  Him.  But  that  thou  mayest 
not  think  Him  enclosed,  as  in  a  body,  he  saith, 
"All  the  fullness  of  the  Godhead  bodily :  and  ye 
are  made  full  in  Him."  Others  say  that  he  in- 
tends the  Church  filled  by  His  Godhead,  as  he 
elsewhere  saith,  "of  Him  that  filleth  all  in  all  " 
(Eph.  i.  23),  and  that  the  term  "  bodily  "  is  here, 
as  the  body  in  the  head.  How  is  it  then  that  he 
did  not  add, "  which  is  the  Church  "  ?  Some  again 
say  it  is  with  reference  to  The  Father,  that  he 
says  that  the  fullness  of  the  Godhead  dwells  in 
Him,  but  wrongly.1  First,  because  "  to  dwell," 
cannot  strictly  be  said  of  God :  next,  because 
the  "fullness"  is  not  that  which  receives,  for  "  the 
earth  is  the  Lord's,  and  the  fullness  thereof" 
(Ps.  xxiv.  1 )  ;  and  again  the  Apostle,  "  until 
the  fullness  of  the  Gentiles  be  come  in."  (Rom. 
xi  25.)  By  "  fullness  "  is  meant  "  the  whole." 
Then  the  word  "  bodily,"  what  did  it  intend  ? 
"As  in  a  head."     But  why  does   he  say  the 

'J" But  wrongly"  seems  a  necessary  addition,  though  omitted 
fy  Field,  doubtless  because  supported  chiefly  by  the  group  of  MSS. 
road  to  make  so  many  unwarrantable  additions  and  other  altera- 
•w>s—  J.  A.  B.] 


same  thing  over  again  ?  "  And  ye  are  made 
full  in  Him."  What  then  does  it  mean?  That 
ye  have  nothing  less  than  He.  As  it  dwelt  in 
Him,  so  also  in  you.  For  Paul  is  ever  straining 
to  bring  us  near  to  Christ ;  as  when  he  says, 
"  Hath  raised  us  up  with  Him,  and  made  us  to 
sit  with  Him"  (Eph.  ii.  6)  :  and,  "  If  we  endure, 
we  shall  also  reign  with  Him  "  (2  Tim.  ii.  12)  : 
and,  "  How  shall  He  not  also  with  Him  freely 
give  us  all  things"  (Rom.  viii.  32)  :  and  calling 
us  "  fellow-heirs."  Then  as  for  His  dignity. 
And  He  "  is  the  head  of  all  principality  and 
power."  (Eph.  iii.  6.)  He  that  is  above  all, 
The  Cause,  is  He  not  Consubstantial  ?  Then 
he  has  added  the  benefit  in  a  marvelous  way ; 
and  far  more  marvelous  than  in  the  Epistle  to 
the  Romans.  For  there  indeed  he  saith,  "  cir- 
cumcision of  the  heart  in  the  spirit,  not  in  the 
letter"  (Rom.  ii.  29),  but  here,  in  Christ. 

Ver.  11.  "In  whom  ye  were  also  circumcised 
with  a  circumcision  not  made  with  hands,  in  the 
putting  off  of  the  body  of  the  flesh  in  the  cir- 
cumcision of  Christ." 

See  how  near  he  is  come  to  the  thing.  He 
saith,  "  In  the  putting  "  quite  away,2  not  putting 
off  merely.  "  The  body  of  sins."  He  means, 
"  the  old  life."  He  is  continually  adverting  to 
this  in  different  ways,  as  he  said  above,  "  Who 
delivered  us  out  of  the  power  of  darkness,  and 
reconciled  us  who  were  alienated,"  that  we  should 
be  "  holy  and  without  blemish."  (Col.  i.  13,  21.) 
No  longer,  he  saith,  is  the  circumcision  with3  the 
knife,  but  in  Christ  Himself;  for  no  hand  im- 
parts this  circumcision,  as  is  the  case  there,  but 
the  Spirit.  It  circumciseth  not  a  part,  but  the 
whole  man.  It  is  the  body  both  in  the  one  and 
the  other  case,  but  in  the  one  it  is  carnally,  in 
the  other  it  is  spiritually  circumcised ;  but  not 
as  the  Jews,  for  ye  have  not  put  off  flesh,  but 
sins.  When  and  where?  In  Baptism.  And 
what  he  calls  circumcision,  he  again  calls  burial. 
Observe  how  he  again  passes  on  to  the  subject 
of  righteous  doings ;  "  of  the  sins,"  he  saith, 
"  of  the  flesh,"  the  things  they  had  done  in  the 
flesh.  He  speaks  of  a  greater  thing  than  cir- 
cumcision, for  they  did  not  merely  cast  away 
that  of  which  they  were  circumcised,  but  they 
destroyed  it,  they  annihilated  it. 

Ver.  12.  "Buried  with  him,"  he  saith,  "in 
Baptism,  wherein  ye  were  also  raised  with  Him, 
through  faith  in  the  working  of  God,  who  raised 
Him  from  the  dead." 

But  it  is  not  burial  only :  for  behold  what  he 
says,  "Wherein  ye  were  also  raised  with  Him, 
through  faith  in  the  working  of  God,  who  raised 
Him  from  the  dead."  He  hath  well  said,  "  of 
faith,"4  for  it  is  all  of  faith.     Ye  believed  that 


s  eV,  "  in.' 


9  airexJuo-ct,  putting  off  for  good,  once  for  all. 
4  [The  repetition  of  irurrcwf,  "  of  faith,"  which  Field  had  previ- 
ously conjectured  as  required  by  the  sense,  is  found  in  the  Catena; 


286 


WORKS   OF   ST.  CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  VI. 


God  is  able  to  raise,  and  so  ye  were  raised. 
Then  note  also  His  worthiness  of  belief,  "  Who 
raised  Him,"  he  saith,  "  from  the  dead." 

He  now  shows  the  Resurrection.  "  And  you 
who  sometime  were  dead  through  your  tres- 
passes and  the  uncircumcision  of  your  flesh, 
you,  I  say,  did  He  quicken  together  with  Him." 
For  ye  lay  under  judgment  of  death.  But  even 
though  ye  died,  it  was  a  profitable  death.  Ob- 
serve how  again  he  shows  what  they  deserved 
in  the  words  he  subjoins : 

Ver.  13,  14,  15.  "Having  forgiven  us  all  our 
trespasses ;  having  blotted  out  the  bond  written 
in  ordinances  that  was  against  us,  which  was  con- 
trary to  us :  and  he  hath  taken  it  out  of  the  way, 
nailing  it  to  the  Cross ;  having  put  off  from  him- 
self the  principalities  and  the  powers,  He  made 
a  show  of  them  openly,1  triumphing  over  them 
in  it." 

"  Having  forgiven  us,"  he  saith,  "  all  our  tres- 
passes," those  which  produced  that  deadness. 
What  then?  Did  He  allow  them  to  remain? 
No,  He  even  wiped  them  out;  He  did  not 
scratch  them  out  merely;  so  that  they  could 
not  be  seen.  "In  doctrines"2  [ordinances], 
he  saith.  What  doctrines?  The  Faith.  It  is 
enough  to  believe.  He  hath  not  set  works 
against  works,  but  works  against  faith.  And 
what  next?  Blotting  out  is  an  advance  upon 
remission ;  again  Ijje  saith,  "  And  hath  taken  it 
out  of  the  way."  Nor  yet  even  so  did  He  pre- 
serve it,  but  rent  it  even  in  sunder,  "  by  nailing  it 
to  His  Cross."  "  Having  put  off  from  himself  the 
principalities  and  the  powers,  He  made  a  show 
of  them  openly,  triumphing  over  them  in  it." 
Nowhere  has  he  spoken  in  so  lofty  a  strain. 

Seest  thou  how  great  His  earnestness  that  the 
bond  should  be  done  awav?  To  wit,  we  all 
were  under  sin  and  punishment.  He  Himself, 
through  suffering  punishment,  did  away  with 
both  the  sin  and  the  punishment,  and  He  was 
punished  on  the  Cross.  To  the  Cross  then  He 
affixed  it ;  as  having  power,  He  tore  it  asunder. 
What  bond  ?  He  means  either  that  which  they 
said  to  Moses,  namely,  "All  that  God  hath  said 
will  we  do,  and  be  obedient"  (Ex.  xxiv.  3), 
or,  if  not  that,  this,  that  we  owe  to  God  obedi- 
ence ;  or  if  not  this,  he  means  that  the  devil 
held  possession  of  it,  the  bond  which  God  made 
for  Adam,  saying,  "  In  the  day  thou  eatest  of 
the  tree,  thou  shalt  die."  (Gen.  ii.  17.)  This 
bond  then  the  devil  held  in  his  possession.  And 
Christ  did  not  give  it  Jto  us,  but  Himself  tore  it 
in  two,  the  action  of  one  who  remits  joyfully. 

and  the  simplifying  group  of  documents  changed  it  into  "  He  hath 
well  said  so,  for,"  &c.  —  J.  A.  B.] 

1  iltiynaTi<rtv  iv  irappr)<ria,  so  commented  on  below  as  seemingly 
to  require  to  be  thus  translated,  "  He  inflicted  disgrace  on  them 
through  His  confidence  in  dying." 

2  rote  66ytiacriv.  Theodoret  also  takes  it  so,  but  the  use  of  8oy- 
uari£*<rd«,  in  ver.  30,  agrees  better  with  E.  V.  "  The  handwriting 
[bond]  in  ordinances,"  and  the  Vulgate,  Chirograpkum  decreti. 


"  Having  put  off  from  himself  the  principali- 
ties and  the  powers."  He  means  the  diabolical 
powers;  because  human  nature  had  arrayed 
itself  in  these,  or  because  they  had,8  as  it  were, 
a  hold,  when  He  became  Man  He  put  away 
from  Himself  that  hold.  What  is  the  meaning 
of  "  He  made  a  show  of  them  "  ?  And  well  said 
he  so ;  never  yet  was  the  devil  in  so  shameful 
a  plight.  For  whilst  expecting  to  have  Him,  he 
lost  even  those  he  had ;  and  when  That  Body 
was  nailed  to  the  Cross,  the  dead  arose.  There 
death  received  his  wound,  having  met  his  death- 
stroke  from  a  dead  body.  And  as  an  athlete, 
when  he  thinks  he  has  hit  his  adversary,  him- 
self is  caught  in  a  fatal  grasp;  so  truly  doth 
Christ  also  show,  that  to  die  with  confidence 4  is 
the  devil's  shame. 

For  he  would  have  done  everything  to  per- 
suade men  that  He  did  not  die,  had  he  had  the 
power.  For  seeing  that  of  His  Resurrection 
indeed  all  succeeding  time  was  proof  demon- 
strative ;  whilst  of  His  death,  no  other  time  save 
that  whereat  it  happened  could  ever  furnish 
proof;  therefore  it  was,  that  He  died  publicly 
in  the  sight  of  all  men,  but  He  arose  not  pub- 
licly, knowing  that  the  aftertime  would  bear  wit- 
ness to  the  truth.  For,  that  whilst  the  world 
was  looking  on,  the  serpent  should  be  slain  on 
high  upon  the  Cross,  herein  is  the  marvel.  For 
what  did  not  the  devil  do,  that  He  might  die  in 
secret?  Hear  Pilate  saying,  "Take  ye  Him 
away,  and  crucify  Him,  for  I  find  no  fault  in 
Him  "  (John  xix.  6),  and  withstanding  them  in 
a  thousand  ways.  And  again  the  Jews  said  unto 
Him,  "  If  Thou  art  the  Son  of  God,  come  down 
from  the  Cross."  (Matt,  xxvii.  40.)  Then 
further,  when  He  had  received  a  mortal  wound, 
and  He  came  not  down,  for  this  reason  He  was 
also  committed  to  burial;   for  it  was   in   His— 

power  to  have  risen  immediately :  but  He  did 

not,  that  the  fact  might  be  believed.  And  yet^ 
in  cases  of  private  death  indeed,  it  is  possibles 
to  impute  them  to  a  swoon,  but  here,  it  is  no»~ 
possible  to  do  this  either.  For  even  the  soldiers- 
brake  not  His  legs,  like  those  of  the  others,  tha-^a 
it  might  be  made  manifest  that  He  was  dea<" 
And  those  who  buried  The  Body  are  known 
and  therefore  too  the  Jews  themselves  seal  th 
stone  along  with  the  soldiers.  For,  what  vn 
most  of  all  attended  to,  was  this  very  thing,  ths 
it  should  not  be  in  obscurity.  And  the  wir 
nesses  to  it  are  from  enemies,  from  the  Jew  - 
Hear  them  saying  to  Pilate,  "That  deceives 
said,  while  he  was  yet  alive,  After  three  days 
rise  again.     Command  therefore  that  the  se] 


3  All  copies  of  St.  Chrys.  read  "had  them  as  a  hold,"  wh 
makes  no  sense.      The  Catena  omits  "  them,"   which   has 
adopted,  though  the  authority  is  slight.     Compare  John  xiv.  30.  ^ 

4  fxtra  irappyaias,  referring  to  coctyparurcr  iv  irappmrt?.   "  G 
fidence  "  sometimes  has  the  meaning  of  "  standing  without  fear 
fore  God."    Here  he  refers  also  to  publicity. 


Homily  VI.] 


HOMILIES  ON  COLOSSIANS. 


287 


ulchre  "  (Matt.  xxvi.  63,  64)  be  guarded  by  the 
soldiers.  This  was  accordingly  done,  themselves 
also  sealing  it.  Hear  them  further  saying  even 
afterwards  to  the  Apostles,  "  Ye  intend  to  bring 
this  Man's  blood  upon  us."  (Acts  v.  28.)  He 
suffered  not  the  very  fashion  of  His  Cross  to  be 
put  to  shame.  For  since  the  Angels  have  suf- 
fered nothing  like  it,  He  therefore  doth  every- 
thing for  this,  showing  that  His  death  achieved 
a  mighty  work.  There  was,  as  it  were,  a  single 
combat.  Death  wounded  Christ :  but  Christ, 
being  wounded,  did  afterwards  kill  death.  He 
that  seemed  to  be  immortal,  was  destroyed  by 
a  mortal  body ;  and  this  the  whole  world  saw. 
And  what  is  truly  wonderful  is,  that  He  com- 
mitted not  this  thing  to  another.  But  there  was 
made  again  a  second  bond  of  another  kind  than 
the  former. 

Beware  then  lest  we  be  condemned  by  this, 
after  saying,  I  renounce  Satan,  and  array  my- 
self with  Thee,  O  Christ.  Rather  however  this 
should  not  be  called  "  a  bond,"  but  a  covenant. 
For  that  is  "a  bond,"  whereby  one  is  held 
accountable  for  debts:  but  this  is  a  covenant. 
It  hath  no  penalty,  nor  saith  it,  If  this  be  done, 
or  if  this  be  not  done  :  what  Moses  said  when 
he  sprinkled  the  blood  of  the  covenant,  by  this 
God  also  promised  everlasting  life.  All  this  is  a 
covenant.  There,  it  was  slave  with  master,  here, 
it  is  friend  with  friend :  there,  it  is  said,  "  In  the 
day  that  thou  eatest  thereof  thou  shalt  die  " 
(Gen.iL  17)  ;  an  immediate  threatening;  but 
here  is  nothing  of  the  kind.  God  arrives,  and 
here  is  nakedness,  and  there  was  nakedness; 
there,  however,  one  that  had  sinned  was  made 
naked,  because  he  sinned,  but  here,  one  is  made 
naked,  that  he  may  be  set  free.  Then,  man  put 
off  the  glory  which  he  had ;  now,  he  puts  off  the 
old  man;  and  before  going  up  (to  the  contest), 
puts  him  off  as  easily,  as  it  were  his  garments.1 
He  is  anointed,2  as  wrestlers  about  to  enter  the 
lists.  For  he  is  born  at  once ;  and  as  that  first 
nan  was,  not  by  little  and  little,  but  imme- 
diately. (He  is  anointed,)  not  as  the  priests 
of  old  time,  on  the  head  alone,  but  rather  in 
more  abundant  measure.  For  he  indeed  was 
anointed  on  the  head,  the  right  ear,  the  hand 
(Lev.  viii.  23,  24)  ;  to  excite  him  to  obedience, 
and  to  good  works ;  but  this  one,  all  over.  For 
he  cometh  not  to  be  instructed  merely ;  but  to 
wrestle,  and  to  be  exercised ;  he  is  advanced  to 
another  creation.  For  when  one  confesses  (his 
belief)  in  the  life  everlasting,3  he  has  confessed 
a  second  creation.  He  took  dust  from  the  earth, 
and  formed  man  (Gen.  ii.  7)  :  but  now,  dust  no 
tonger,  but  the  Holy  Spirit;  with  This  he  is 
formed,  with  this  harmonized,  even  as  Himself 


!  See  St.  Cyril,  Catech.  XX. 

'  See  St.  Cyril,  Catech.  XXI. 

1  Io  the  Apostles'  Creed,  recited  at  Baptism. 


was  in  the  womb  of  the  Virgin.  He  said  not  in 
Paradise,  but  "in  Heaven."  For  deem  not  that, 
because  the  subject  is  earth,  it  is  done  on  earth  ; 
he  is 4  removed  thither,  to  Heaven,  there  these 
things  are  transacted,  in  the  midst  of  Angels : 
God  taketh  up  thy  soul  above,  above  He  har- 
monizeth  it  anew,  He  placeth  thee  near  to  the 
Kingly  Throne.  He  is  formed  in  the  water,  he 
receiveth  spirit  instead  of  a  soul.5  And  after  he 
is  formed,  He  bringeth  to  him,  not  beasts,  but 
demons,  and  their  prince,  and  saith,  "Tread 
upon  serpents  and  scorpions."  (Luke  x.  19.) 
He  saith  not,  "  Let  Us  make  man  in  our  image, 
and  after  our  likeness"  (Gen.  i.  26),  but  what? 
"  He  giveth  them  to  become  the  sons  of  God ; 
but  of  God,"  he  saith,  "  they  were  born." 
(John  i.  12,  13.)  Then  that  thou  give  no  ear  to 
the  serpent,  straightway  he  teaches  thee  to  say, 
"  I  renounce  thee,"  that  is,  "  whatsoever  thou 
sayest,  I  will  not  hear  thee."  Then,  that  he 
destroy  thee  not  by  means  of  others,  it  is  said,6 
"and  thy  pomp,  and  thy  service,  and  thy  angels." 
He  hath  set  him  no  more  to  keep  Paradise,  but 
to  have  his  citizenship  in  heaven.  For  straight- 
way when  he  cometh  up  he  pronounceth  these 
words,  "  Our  Father,  Which  art  in  Heaven,  .  .  . 
Thy  will  be  done,  as  in  Heaven,  so  on  earth." 
The  plain  falleth  not  on  thy  sight,7  thou  seest 
not  tree,  nor  fountain,  but  straightway  thou 
takest  into  thee  the  Lord  Himself,  thou  art 
mingled  with  His  Body,  thou  art  intermixed 
with  that  Body  that  lieth  above,  whither  the 
devil  cannot  approach.  No  woman  is  there,  for 
him  to  approach,  and  deceive  as  the  weaker; 
for  it  is  said,  "There  is  neither  female,  nor  male." 
(Gal.  iii.  28.)  If  thou  go  not  down  to  him,  he 
will  not  have  power  to  come  up  where  thou  art ; 
for  thou  art  in  Heaven,  and  Heaven  is  unap- 
proachable by  the  devil.  It  hath  no  tree  with 
knowledge  of  good  and  evil,  but  the  Tree  of 
Life  only.  No  more  shall  woman  be  formed 
from  thy  side,  but  we  all  are  one  from  the  side 
of  Christ.  For  if  they  who  have  been  anointed 
of  men  take  no  harm  by  serpents,  neither  wilt 
thou  take  any  harm  at  all,  so  long  as  thou  art 
anointed  ;  that  thou  mayst  be  able  to  grasp  the 
Serpent  and  choke  him,  "  to  tread  upon  serpents 
and  scorpions."  (Luke  x.  19.)  But  as  the  gifts 
are  great,  so  is  the  punishment  great  also.  It  is 
not  possible  for  him  that  hath  fallen  from  Para- 

4  Old  Lat.  "  thou  art."  The  former  clause  may  be,  "  think  not, 
because  the  earth  is  under  thee,  that  thou  art  in  earth." 

•  avrtyvxov  vvtvua,  i.e.  as  Adam  received  a  soul.  The  Spirit 
becoming,  as  it  were,  the  life  of  the  new  man.     See  on  Rom.  viii.  n. 

0  4>r)<ri,  the  person  who  directs  the  catechumen. 

T  No  meaning  appears  in  this,  owe  in'  bif/tv  viVrci  to  natiiov, 
though  old  I^at.  also  has,  "  The  child  falleth  not  on  his  face  " ;  but 
we  have  only  to  read  ntBiov,  as  in  a  doubtful  passage  of  Horn.  xvi. 
on  Rom.  Tr.  p.  467,  note.  This  has  been  done  in  the  text,  not  to 
spoil  so  beautiful  a  passage.  [There  may  be  a  fanciful  notion  of  the 
person  newly  baptized  and  thereby  regenerated  ("  formed  in  the 
water  ")  as  a  child.  Upon  coming  up  and  pronouncing  the  Lord's 
Prayer,  "  the  child  does  not  fall  on  his  face."  The  meaning  will 
still  be  obscure,  but  the  whole  passage  is  highly  fanciful,  and  there 
is  thus  at  least  a  possible  sense.  —  J.  A.  B.] 


1,1-r-H  \    • 


UNIVER6.'  . 

-         OF  J 


288 


WORKS   OF   ST.   CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  VII. 


dise,  to  dwell  "  in  front  of  Paradise'11  (Gen.  iii. 
24),  nor  to  reascend  thither  from  whence  we 
have  fallen.  But  what  after  this?  Hell,  and 
the  worm  undying.  But  far  be  it  that  any  of 
us  should  become  amenable  to  this  punishment ! 
but  living  virtuously,  let  us  earnestly  strive  to  do 


throughout  His  will.  Let  us  become  well-pleas- 
ing to  God,  that  we  may  be  able  both  to  escape 
the  punishment,  and  to  obtain  the  good  things 
eternal,  of  which  may  we  all  be  counted  worthy, 
through  the  grace  and  love  toward  man,  &c: 


HOMILY  VII. 

Colossians  ii.  16-19. 


"  Let  no  man  therefore  judge  you  in  meat,  or  in  drink,  or 
in  respect  of  a  feast  day,  or  a  new  moon,  or  a  sab- 
bath day:  which  are  a  shadow  of  the  things  to 
come;  but  the  body  is  Christ's.  Let  no  man  rob 
you  of  your  prize  by  a  voluntary  humility  and  wor- 
shiping of  the  Angels,  dwelling  in  the  things  which 
he  hath  not  seen,  vainly  puffed  up  by  his  fleshly 
mind,  and  not  holding  fast  the  Head,  from  whom 
all  the  body  being  supplied  and  knit  together, 
through  the  joints  and  bands,  increaseth  with  the 
increase  of  God." 

Having  first  said  darkly,  "Take  heed  lest 
there  shall  be  any  one  that  maketh  spoil  of  you 
after  the  tradition  of  men "  (ver.  8)  ;  and 
again,  further  back,  "This,. I  say,  that  no  one 
may  delude  you  with  persuasiveness  of  speech  " 
(ver.  4)  ;  thus  preoccupying  their  soul,  and 
working  in  it  anxious  thoughts ;  next,  having  in- 
serted those  benefits,  and  increased  this  effect, 
he  then  brings  in  his  reproof  last,  and  says, 
"  Let  no  man  therefore  judge  you  in  meat,  or 
in  drink,  or  in  respect  of  a  feast  day,  or  a  new 
moon,  or  a  sabbath  day."  Seest  thou  how  he 
depreciates  them?  If  ye  have  obtained  such 
things,  he  saith,  why  make  yourselves  accounta- 
ble for  these  petty  matters  ?  And  he  makes  light 
of  them,  saying,  "or  in  the  part2  of  a  feast  day," 
for  in  truth  they  did  not  retain  the  whole  of  the 
former  rule,  "  or  a  new  moon,  or  a  sabbath 
day."  He  said  not,  "  Do  not  then  observe 
them,"  but,  "let  no  man  judge  you."  He 
showed  that  they  were  transgressing,  and 
undoing,  but  he  brought  his  charge  against 
others.  Endure  not  those  that  judge  you, 
he  saith,  nay,  not  so  much  as  this  either, 
but  he  argues  with  those  persons,  almost 
stopping  their  mouths,  and  saying,  Ye  ought  not 
to  judge.  But  he  would  not  have  reflected  on 
these.  He  said  not  "  in  clean  and  unclean,"  nor 
yet  "in  feasts  of  Tabernacles,  and  unleavened 

1  LXX.  has  KartpKurtv  ainbv  airtvavri  tow  Trapajeurov,  "  He 
placed  him  opposite  Paradise."  And  it  is  generally  thought  that 
Adam  approached  the  gate  of  Paradise  to  worship. 

2  [The  word  here  rendered  "  respect "  means  primarily  "  part." 
But  it  is  exegetically  wrong  to  insist  on  this  sense  as  Chrys.  does,  for 
the  phrase  designates  the  category  or  class  of  things.  See  Meyer 
or  Lightfoot. — J.  A.  B.] 


bread,  and  Pentecost,"  but  "in  part  of  a  feast "  : 
for  they  ventured  not  to  keep  the  whole ;  and 
if  they  did  observe  it,  yet  not  so  as  to  celebrate 
the  feast.  "  In  part,"  he  saith,  showing  that  the 
greater  part  is  done  away.  For  even  if  they 
did  keep  sabbath,  they  did  not  do  so  with  pre- 
cision. "  Which  are  a  shadow  of  the  things  to 
come  "  ;  he  means,  of  the  New  Covenant ;  "  but 
the  body"  is  "Christ's."  Some  persons  here 
punctuate  thus,  "  but  the  body  "  is  "  of  Christ," 
i.e.  the  truth  is  come  in  with  Christ :  others 
thus ;  "  The  Body  of  Christ  let  no  man  adjudge 
away  from  you,"  that  is,  thwart  you  of  it.  The 
term  KarafipaficvOrjvaL,  is  employed  when  the 
victory  is  with  one  party,  and  the  prize  with 
another,  when  though  a  victor  thou  art  thwarted. 
Thou  standest  above  the  devil  and  sin ;  why 
dost  thou  again  subject  thyself  to  sin?  There- 
fore he  said  that  "  he  is  a  debtor  to  fulfill  the 
whole  law  "  (Gal.  v.  3)  ;  and  again,  "  Is  Christ " 
found  to  be  "  the  minister  of  sin  "  (Gal.  ii.  17)? 
which  he  said  when  writing  to  the  Galatians. 
When  he  had  filled  them  with  anger  through 
saying,  "  adjudge  away  from  you,"  then  he 
begins;  "being  a  voluntary,"8  he  saith,  "in 
humility  and  worshiping  of  Angels,  intruding 
into  things  he  hath  not  seen,  vainly  puffed  up 
by  his  fleshly  mind."  How  "in  humility,"  or 
how  "puffed  up"?  He  shows  that  the  whole 
arose  out  of  vainglory.  But  what  is  on  the 
whole  the  drift  of  what  is  said?  There  are 
some  who  maintain  that  we  must  be  brought 
near  by  Angels,  not  by  Christ,  that  were  too 
great  a  thing  for  us.  Therefore  it  is  that  he 
turns  over  and  over  again  what  has  been  done 
by  Christ,  "  through  the  Blood  of  His  Cross  " 
(c.  i.  20)  ;  on  this  account  he  says  that  "  He 
suffered  for  us  "  ;  that "  He  loved  us."  ( 1  Pet. 
ii.  21.)  And  besides  in  this  very  same  thing, 
moreover,  they  were  elevated  afresh.  And  he 
said  not  "introduction  by,"  but  "worshiping 
of"  Angels.   "  Intruding  into  things  he  hath  not4 

8  E.  V.  marg. 

4  ["  Not "  is  wanting  in  the  best  documents  for  N.  T.  text,  and 


Homily  VIL] 


HOMILIES  ON  COLOSSIANS. 


289 


seen."  (Eph.  ii.  4.)  For  he  hath  not  seen 
Angels,  and  yet  is  affected  as  though  he  had. 
Therefore  he  saith,  "Puffed  up  by  his  fleshly 
mind  vainly,"  not  about  any  true  fact.  About 
this  doctrine,  he  is  puffed  up,  and  puts  forward 
a  show  of  humility.  .By  his  carnal  mind,  not 
spiritual ;  his  reasoning  is  of  man.  "  And  not 
holding  fast  the  Head,"  he  saith,  "  from  whom 
all  the  body."  All  the  body  thence  hath  its 
being,  and  its  well-being.  Why,  letting  go  the 
Head,  dost  thou  cling  to  the  members  ?  If  thou 
art  fallen  off  from  it,  thou  art  lost.  "  From 
whom  all  the  body."  Every  one,  be  he  who  he 
may,  thence  has  not  life  only,  but  also  even 
connection.  All  the  Church,  so  long  as  she 
holds  The  Head,  increaseth ;  because  here  is 
no  more  passion  of  pride  and  vainglory,  nor 
invention  of  human  fancy. 

Mark  that  "  from  *  whom,"  meaning  the  Son. 

"Through  the  joints  and  bands,"  he  says,  "  being 

supplied,  and  knit  together,  increases  with  the 

increase  of  God " ;   he  means,  that  which  is 

according  to  God,  that  of  the  best  life. 

Ver.  20.  "  If  ye  died  with  Christ." 

He  puts  that  in  the  middle,  and  on  either 

side,  expressions  of  greater  vehemence.     "If 

ye  died  with  Christ  from  the  elements  of  the 

world,"  he  saith,  "  why  as  though  living  in  the 

world  do  ye  subject  yourselves  to  ordinances?" 

This  is  not  the  consequence,  for  what  ought  to 

have  been  said  is,  "  how  as  though  living  are  ye 

subject  to  those  elements?"     But  letting  this 

pass,  what  saith  he  ? 

Ver.  21,  22.  "Handle  not,  nor  taste,  nor 
touch  ;  all  which  things  are  to  perish  with  the 
using ;  after  the  precepts  and  doctrines  of  men." 
Ye  are  not  in  the  world,  he  saith,  how  is  it  ye 
are  subject  to  its  elements?  how  to  its  observ- 
ances? And  mark  how  he  makes  sport  of  them, 
"touch  not,  handle  not,  taste  not,"  as  though 
they  were  cowards  and  keeping  themselves  clear 
of  some  great  matters,  "  all  which  things  are  to 
perish  with  the  using."  He  has  taken  down  the 
swollenness  of  the  many,  and  added,  "  after  the 
precepts  and  doctrines  of  men."  What  say  est 
thou?  Dost  thou  speak  even  of  the  Law? 
Henceforth  it  is  but  a  doctrine  of  men,  after  the 
time  is  come.*  Or,  because  they  adulterated  it, 
or  else,  he  alludes  to  the  Gentile  institutions. 
The  doctrine,  he  says,  is  altogether  of  man. 

Ver.  23.  "  Which  things  have  indeed  a  show 
of  wisdom  in  will  worship,  and  humility,  and 
severity  to  the  body ;  but  are  not  of  any  value 
against  the  indulgence  of  the  flesh." 

u  Show,"  he  saith ;  not  power,  not  truth.    So 

so  is  rightly  omitted  in  Rev.  Ver.  The  participle  must  then  take  a 
different  sense,  such  as  dwelling  in  the  thingswhich  he  hath  seen, 
poring  over  and  confining  himself  to  these.  The  expression  is  ob- 
scure, and  was  simplified  fay  inserting  "not."  Comp.  Meyer. — 
J.A.B.] 


1  i$,  which  makes  Him  a  source  of  action  in  Himself. 
*  *Miptv,  j.e.  th*  rime  of  Christ's  Advent,  or  "  after  it 


its  tune. 


t» 


that  even  though  they  have  a  show  of  wisdom, 
let  us  turn  away  from  them.  For  he  may  seem 
to  be  a  religious  person,  and  modest,  and  to 
have  a  contempt  for  the  body. 

"  Not  of  any  value  against  the  indulgence  of 
the  flesh."  For  God  hath  given  it  honor,  but 
they  use  it  not  with  honor.  Thus,  when  it  is  a 
doctrine,  he  knows  how  to  call  it  honor.  They 
dishonor  the  flesh,  he  says,  depriving  it,  and 
stripping  it  of  its  liberty,  not  giving  leave  to  rule 
it  with  its  will.     God  hath  honored  the  flesh. 

Chap.  iii.  ver.  1.  "If  then  ye  were  raised  to- 
gether with  Christ." 

He  brings  them  together,  having  above  estab- 
lished that  He  died.  Therefore  he  saith,  "  If 
then  ye  were  raised  together  with  Christ,  seek 
the  things  that  are  above."  No  observances  are 
there.  "Where  Christ  is  seated  on  the  right 
hand  of  God."  Wonderful !  Whither  hath  he 
led  our  minds  aloft !  How  hath  he  filled  them 
with  mighty  aspiration  !  It  was  not  enough  to 
say,  "  the  things  that  are  above,"  nor  yet, 
"where  Christ  is,"  but  what?  "seated  on  the 
nght  hand  of  God."  From  that  point  he  was 
preparing  them  henceforward  to  see  the  earth. 

Ver.  2,  3,  4.  "Set  your  mind  on  the  things 
that  are  above,  not  on  the  things  that  are  upon 
the  earth.  For  ye  died,  and  your  life  is  hid 
with  Christ  in  God.  When  Christ  who  is  your 
life  shall  be  manifested,  then  shall  ye  also  with 
Him  be  manifested  in  glory." 

This  is  not  your  life,  he  saith,  it  is  some  other 
one.  He  is  now  urgent  to  remove  them,  and 
insists  upon  showing  that  they  are  seated  above, 
and  are  dead ;  from  both  considerations  estab- 
lishing the  position,  that  they  are  not  to  seek 
the  things  which  are  here.  For  whether  ye  be 
dead,  ye  ought  not  to  seek  them ;  or  whether 
ye  be  above,  ye  ought  not  to  seek  them.  Doth 
Christ  appear?  Neither  doth  your  life.  It  is 
in  God,  above.  What  then?  When  shall  we 
live?  When  Christ  shall  be  manifested,  who  is 
your  life;  then  seek  ye  glory,  then  life,  then 
enjoyment. 

This  is  to  prepare  the  way  for  drawing  them 
off  from  pleasure  and  ease.  Such  is  his  wont : 
when  establishing  one  position,  he  darts  off  to 
another;  as,  for  instance,  when  discoursing  of 
those  who  at  supper  were  beforehand  with  one 
another,  he  all  at  once  falls  upon  the  observance 
of  the  Mysteries.8  For  he  hath  a  great  rebuke 
when  it  is  administered  unsuspected.  "  It  is 
hid,"  he  saith,  from  you.  "  Then  shall  ye  also 
with  Him  be  manifested."  So  that,  now,  ye  do 
not  appear.  See  how  he  hath  removed  them 
into  the  very  heaven.  For,  as  I  said,  he  is 
always  bent  upon  showing  that  they  have  the 


8  See  his  Comment  on  x  Cor.  xi.  17-21.  Horn,  xxvii.  on  1  Cor., 
where  he  says  that  the  supper  referred  to  was  "  when  the  solemn 
service  was  complittd,  after  the  Communion  of  the  Mysteries." 


290 


WORKS   OF   ST.   CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  VIL 


very  same  things  which  Christ  hath ;  and  through 
all  his  Epistles,  the  tenor  is  this,  to  show  that  in 
all  things  they  are  partakers  with  Him.  There- 
fore he  uses  the  terms,  Head,  and  Body,  and 
does  everything  to  convey  this  to  them. 

If  therefore  we  shall  then  be  manifested,  let 
us  not  grieve,  when  we  enjoy  not  honor :  if  this 
life  be  not  life,  but  it  be  hidden,  we  ought  to 
live  this  life  as  though  dead.  "  Then  shall  ye 
also,"  he  saith,  "with  Him  be  manifested  in 
glory."  "  In  glory,"  he  said,  not  merely  "  mani- 
fested." For  the  pearl  too  is  hidden  so  long  as 
it  is  within  the  oyster.  If  then  we  be  treated 
with  insult,  let  us  not  grieve ;  or  whatever  it  be 
we  suffer;  for  this  life  is  not  our  life,  we  are 
strangers  and  sojourners.  "For  ye  died,"  he 
saith.  Who  is  so  witless,  as  for  a  corpse,  dead 
and  buried,  either  to  buy  servants,  or  build 
houses,  *  or  prepare  costly  raiment  ?  None. 
Neither  then  do  ye ;  but  as  we  seek  one  thing 
only,  namely,  that  we  be  not  in  a  naked  state, 
so  here  too  let  us  seek  one  thing  and  no  more. 
Our  first  man  is  buried :  buried  not  in  earth, 
but  in  water;  not  death-destroyed,  but  buried 
by  death's  destroyer,  not  by  the  law  of  nature, 
but  by  the  governing  command  that  is  stronger 
than  nature.  For  what  has  been  done  by  nature, 
may  perchance  be  undone ;  but  what  has  been 
done  by  His  command,  never.  Nothing  is  more 
blessed  than  this  burial,  whereat  all  are  rejoicing, 
both  Angels,  and  men,  and  the  Lord  of  Angels. 
At  this  burial,  no  need  is  there  of  vestments,  nor 
of  coffin,  nor  of  anything  else  of  that  kind. 
Wouldest  thou  see  the  symbol  of  this?  I  will 
show  thee  a  pool  wherein  the  one  was  buried, 
the  other  raised ;  in  the  Red  Sea  the  Egyptians 
were  sunk  beneath  it,  but  the  Israelites  went  up 
from  out  of  it ;  in  the  same  act  he  buries  the 
one,  generates  the  other. 

Marvel  not  that  generation  and  destruction 
take  place  in  Baptism ;  for,  tell  me,  dissolving 
and  cementing,  are  they  not  opposite?  It  is 
evident  to  all.  Such  is  the  effect  of  fire;  for 
fire  dissolves  and  destroys  wax,  but  it  cements 
together  metallic  earth,  and  works  it  into  gold. 
So  in  truth  here  also,  the  force  of  the  fire,  hav- 
ing obliterated  the  statue  of  wax,  has  displayed 
a  golden  one  in  its  stead ;  for  in  truth  before 
the  Bath  we  were  of  clay,  but  after  it  of  gold. 
Whence  is  this  evident?  Hear  him  saying, 
"  The  first  man  is  of  the  earth,  earthy,  the  sec- 
ond man  is  the  Lord  from  heaven."  (1  Cor. 
xv.  47.)  I  spoke  of  a  difference  as  great  as  that 
between  clay  and  gold ;  but  greater  still  do  I 
find  the  difference  between  heavenly  and  earthy ; 
not  so  widely  do  clay  and  gold  differ,  as  do 
things  earthy  and  heavenly.  Waxen  we  were, 
and  clay-formed.  For  the  flame  of  lust  did 
much  more  melt  us,  than  fire  doth  wax,  and 
any  chance  temptation  did  far  rather  shatter  us 


than  a  stone  doth  things  of  clay.  And,  if  ye 
will,  let  us  give  an  outline  of  the  former  life,  and 
see  whether  all  was  not  earth  and  water,  and  full 
of  fluctuation  and  dust,  and  instability,  and  flow- 
ing away. 

And  if  ye  will,  let  us  scrutinize  not  the  former 
things,  but  the  present,  and  see  whether  we 
shall  not  find  everything  that  is,  mere  dust  and 
water.  For  what  wilt  thou  tell  me  of?  authority 
and  power?  for  nothing  in  this  present  life  is 
thought  to  be  more  enviable  than  these.  But 
sooner  may  one  find  the  dust  when  on  the  air 
stationary,  than  these  things;  especially  now. 
For  to  whom  are  they  not  under  subjection? 
To  those  who  are  lovers  of  them ;  to  eunuchs ; 
to  those  who  will  do  anything  for  the  sake  of 
money ;  to  the  passions  of  the  populace ;  to 
the  wrath  of  the  more  powerful.  He  who  was 
yesterday  up  high  on  his  tribunal,1  who  had  his 
heralds  shouting  with  thrilling  voice,  and  many 
to  run  before,  and  haughtily  clear  the  way  for 
him  through  the  forum,  is  to-day  mean  and  low, 
and  of  all  those  things  bereft  and  bare,.like  dust 
blast- driven,  like  a  stream  that  hath  passed  by. 
And  like  as  the  dust  is  raised  by  our  feet,  so 
truly  are  magistracies  also  produced  by  those 
who  are  engaged  about  money,  and  in  the  whole 
of  life  have  the  rank  and  condition  of  feet; 
and  like  as  the  dust  when  it  is  raised  occupies 
a  large  portion  of  the  air,  though  itself  be  but  a 
small  body,  so  too  doth  power ;  and  like  as  the 
dust  blindeth  the  eyes,  so  too  doth  the  pride  of 
power  bedim  the  eyes  of  the  understanding. 

But  what  ?  Wilt  thou  that  we  examine  that 
object  of  many  prayers,  wealth  ?  Come,  let  us 
examine  it  in  its  several  parts.  It  hath  luxury, 
it  hath  honors,  it  hath  power.  First  then,  if 
thou  wilt,  let  us  examine  luxury.  Is  it  not  dust  ? 
yea,  rather,  it  goeth  by  swifter  than  dust,  for  the 
pleasure  of  luxurious  living  reacheth  only  to  the 
tongue,  and  when  the  belly  is  filled,  not  to  the 
tongue  even.  But,  saith  one,  honors  are  of 
themselves  pleasant  things.  Yet  what  can  be 
less  pleasant  than  that  same  honor,  when  it  is 
rendered  with  a  view  to  money?  When  it  is 
not  from  free  choice  and  with  a  readiness  of 
mind,  it  is  not  thou  that  reapest  the  honor,  but 
thy  wealth.  So  that  this  very  thing  makes  the 
man  of  wealth,  most  of  all  men,  dishonored. 
For,  tell  me;  suppose  all  men  honored  thee, 
who  hadst  a  friend ;  the  while  confessing  that 
thou,  to  be  sure,  wert  good  for  nothing,  but 
that  they  were  compelled  to  honor  thee  on  his 
account ;  could  they  possibly  in  any  other  way 
have  so  dishonored  thee  ?  So  that  our  wealth 
is  the  cause  of  dishonor  to  us,  seeing  it  is  more 
honored   than  are  its  very  possessors,  and   a 


1  Montfaucon  thinks  this  refers  to  Eutropius,  whose  disgrace 
occasioned  two  Homilies  of  St.  Chrys.  Ben.  t.  iii.  This  is  ques- 
tioned in  the  recent  Paris  Edition. 


Homily  VII.] 


HOMILIES  ON  COLOSSIANS. 


29  f 


proof  rather  of  weakness  than  of  power.  How 
then  is  it  not  absurd  that  we  are  not  counted  of 
as  much  value  as  earth  and  ashes,  (for  such  is 
gold,)  but  that  we  are  honored  for  its  sake? 
With  reason.  But  not  so  he  that  despiseth 
wealth;  for  it  were  better  not  to  be  honored 
at  all,  than  so  honored.  For  tell  me,  were  one 
to  say  to  thee,  I  think  thee  worthy  of  no  honor 
at  all,  but  for  thy  servants'  sakes  I  honor  thee, 
could  now  anything  be  worse  than  this  dishonor? 
But  if  to  be  honored  for  the  sake  of  servants, 
who  are  partakers  of  the  same  soul  and 
nature  with  ourselves,  be  a  disgrace,  much 
more  then  is  it  such,  to  be  honored  for  the 
sake  of  meaner  things,  such  as  the  walls  and 
courts  of  houses,  and  vessels  of  gold,  and  gar- 
ments. A  scorn  indeed  were  this,  and  shame ; 
better  die  than  be  so  honored.  For,  tell  me, 
if  thou  wert  in  peril  in  this  thy  pride,  and 
some  low  and  disgusting  person  were  to  be 
willing  to  extricate  thee  from  thy  peril,  what 
could  be  worse  than  this  ?  What  ye  say  one  to 
another  about  the  city,  I  wish  to  say  to  you. 
Once  on  a  time  our1  city  gave  offense  to  the 
Emperor,*  and  he  gave  orders  that  the  whole 
of  it  should  utterly  be  destroyed,  men,  chil- 
dren, houses,  and  all.  (For  such  is  the  wrath 
of  kings,  they  indulge  their  power  as  much  as 
ever  they  choose,  so  great  an  evil  is  power.)  It 
was  then  in  the  extremest  of  perils.  The  neigh- 
boring city,  however,  this  one  on  the  sea-coast, 
went  and  besought  the  king  in  our  behalf :  upon 
which  the  inhabitants  of  our  city  said  that  this 
was  worse  than  if  the  city  had  been  razed  to  the 
ground.  So,  to  be  thus  honored  is  worse  than 
being  dishonored.  For  see  whence  honor  hath 
its  root.  The  hands  of  cooks  procure  us  to  be 
honored,  so  that  to  them  we  ought  to  feel  grati- 
tude ;  and  Swineherds  supplying  us  with  a  rich 
table,  and  weavers,  and  spinners,  and  workers  in 
metal,  and  confectioners,  and  table  furnishers. 

Were  it  not  then  better  not  to  be  honored  at 
all,  than  to  be  beholden  to  these  for  the  honor  ? 
And  besides  this,  moreover,  I  will  endeavor  to 
prove  clearly  that  opulence  is  a  condition  full  of 
dishonor ;  it  embases  the  soul ;  and  what  is  more 
dishonorable  than  this?  For  tell  me,  suppose 
one  had  a  comely  person,  and  passing  all  in 
beauty,  and  wealth  were  to  go  to  him  and  prom- 
ise to  make  it  ugly,  and  instead  of  healthy,  dis- 
eased, instead  of  cool,  inflamed ;  and  having 
filled  every  limb  with  dropsy,  were  to  make  the 

*  i.e.  his  native  Antioch. 

*  tw  KparoivTi,  the  Emperor  Theodosius.  This  was  preached 
under  his  successor  Arcadius.  For  an  account  of  the  events  referred 
to,  see  Pref.  to  Homilies  on  the  Statues.  The  "  neighboring  city," 
however,  is  not  named  there,  though  the  sympathy  of  neighboring 
cities  is  mentioned  in  Horn.  ii.  It  is  supposed  to  be  Seleucia. 
£'Our  city"  might  be  naturally  used  to  denote  what  wot,  at  the 
tune  of  which  he  is  speaking,  the  city  of  himself  and  his  fellow-citi- 
scas.  See  above,  Horn,  ui.,  near  the  end,  the  clear  proof  that 
these  homilies  on  Cotossians  were  delivered  in  Constantinople.  — 
J.  A.  B.] 


countenance*  bloated,  and  distend  it  all  over ; 
and  were  to  well  out  the  feet,  and  make  them 
heavier  than  logs,  and  to  puff  up  the  belly,  and 
make  it  larger  than  any  tun ;  and  after  this,  it 
should  promise  not  even  to  grant  permission  to 
cure  him,  to  those  who  should  be  desirous  of 
doing  so,  (for  such  is  the  way  with  power,)  but 
would  give  him  so  much  liberty  as  to  punish 
any  one  that  should  approach  him  to  withdraw 
him  from  what  was  harming  him ;  well  then,  tell 
me,  when  wealth  works  these  effects  in  the  soul, 
how  can  it  be  honorable  ? 
'  But  this  power  is  a  more  grievous  thing  than 
the  disease  itself;  as  for  one  in  disease  not  to  be 
obedient  to  the  physician's  injunctions  is  a  more 
serious  evil  than  the  being  diseased ;  and  this  is 
the  case  with  wealth,  seeing  it  creates  inflam- 
mation in  every  part  of  the  soul,  and  forbids  the 
physicians  to  come  near  it.  So  let  us  not  felici- 
tate these  on  the  score  of  their  power,  but  pity 
them;  for  neither  were  I  to  see  a  dropsical 
patient  lying,  and  nobody  forbidding  him  to 
take  his  fill  of  whatever  drinks  he  pleased  and 
of  meats  that  are  harmful,  would  I  felicitate 
him  because  of  his  power.  For  not  in  all 
cases  is  power  a  good  thing,  nor  are  honors 
either,  for  these  too  fill  one  with  much  arro- 
gance. But  if  thou  wouldest  not  choose  that 
the  body  should  along  with  wealth  contract  such 
a  disease,  how  comest  thou  to  overlook  the  soul, 
and  when  contracting  not  this  scourge  alone,  but 
another  also?  For  it  is  on  fire  all  over  with 
burning  fevers  and  inflammations,  and  that  burn- 
ing fever  none  can  quench,  for  wealth  will  not 
allow  of  this,  having  persuaded  it  that  those 
things  are  gains,  which  are  really  losses,  such 
as  not  enduring  any  one  and  doing  everything 
at  will.  For  no  other  soul  will  one  find  so 
replete  with  lusts  so  great  and  so  extravagant, 
as  theirs  who  are  desirous  of  being  rich.  For 
what  silly  trifles  do  they  not  picture  to  them- 
selves !  One  may  see  these  devising  more  ex- 
travagant things  than  limners  of  hippocentaurs, 
and  chimaeras,  and  dragon-footed  things,  and 
Scyllas,  and  monsters.  And  if  one  should 
choose  to  give  a  picture  of  one  lust  of  theirs, 
neither  Scylla,  nor  chimsera,  nor  hippocentaur 
will  appear  anything  at  all  by  the  side  of  such 
a  prodigy ;  but  you  will  find  it  to  contain  every 
wild  beast  at  once. 

And  perchance  some  one  will  suppose  that  I 
have  been  myself  possessed  of  much  wealth, 
seeing  I  am  so  true  to  what  really  comes  of  it. 
It  is  reported  of  one  (for  I  will  first  confirm 
what  I  have  said  from  the  legends  of  the 
Greeks)  —  it  is  reported  amongst  them  of  a 
certain  king,  that  he  became  so  insolent  in 
luxury,  as  to  make  a  plane  tree  of  gold,3  and 

*  Ed.  Par.  refers  to  Herod,  vii.  37,  where  such  a  tree  is  men- 


292 


WORKS   OF   ST.   CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  VII. 


a  sky  above  it,  and  there  sate,  and  this  too 
when  invading  a  people  skilled  in  warfare. 
Now  was  not  this  lust  hippocentaurean,  was  it 
not  Scyllaean?  Another,  again,  used1  to  cast 
men  into  a  wooden  bull.  Was  not  this  a  very 
Scylla?  And  even  him,2  the  king  I  just  men- 
tioned, the  warrior,8  wealth  made,  from  a  man, 
a  woman,  from  a  woman,  what  shall  I  say?  a 
brute  beast,  and  yet  more  degraded  than  this ; 
for  the  beasts,  if  they  lodge  under  a  tree,  take 
up  with  nature,  and  seek  for  nothing  further; 
but  the  man  in  question  overshot  the  nature 
even  of  beasts. 

What  then  can  be  more  senseless  than  are 
the  wealthy?  And  tins  arises  from  the  greedi- 
ness of  their  desires.  But,  are  there  not  many 
that  admire  him?  Therefore  truly  do  they  share 
in  the  laughter  he  incurs.  That  displayed  not 
his  wealth  but  his  folly.  How  much  better  than 
that  golden  plane  tree  is  that  which  the  earth 
produceth !  For  the  natural  is  more  grateful 
than  the  unnatural.  But  what  meant  that  thy 
golden  heaven,  O  senseless  one?  Seest  thou 
how  wealth  that  is  abundant  maketh  men  mad  ? 
How  it  inflamed  them  ?  I  suppose  he  knows  not 
the  sea  even,  and  perchance  will  presently  have 
a  mind  to  walk  upon  it.4  Now  is  not  this  a 
chimaera?  is  it  not  a  hippocentaur?  But  there 
are,  at  this  time  also,  some  who  fall  not  short 
even  of  him,  but  are  actually  much  more  sense- 
less.    Eorm  point  of  senselessness,  wherein  do 


they  differ,  teU  me,  firom  that  golden  plane  tree^  /use,  but  everywhere  excess. 


■P***  • 


who  make  silver  jars,  pitchers,  and  scent  bottles  ? 
And  Wherein  do  those  women  differ,  (ashamed 
indeed  I  am,  but  it  is  necessary  to  speak  it,) 
who  make  chamber  utensils  of  silver?8  It  is  ye 
should  be  ashamed,  that  are  the  makers  of 
these  things.  When  Christ  is  famishing,  dost 
thou  so  revel  in  luxury?  yea  rather,  so  play  the 
fool !  What  punishment  shall  these  not  suffer? 
And  inquirest  thou  still,  why  there  are  robbers? 
why  murderers?  why  such  evils?  when  the 
devil  has  thus  made  you  ridiculous.  For  the 
mere  having  of  silver  dishes  indeed,  this  even  is 
not  in  keeping  with  a  soul  devoted  to  wisdom, 
but  is  altogether  a  piece  of  luxury;  but  the 
making  unclean  vessels  also  of  silver,  is  this  then 
luxury?  nay,  I  will  not  call  it  luxury,  but  sense- 
lessness ;  nay,  nor  yet  this,  but  madness ;  nay 
rather,  worse  than  even  madness. 

I  know  that  many  persons  make  jokes  at  me 

turned  as  given  to  Darius;  also  to  Diod.  Sic.  xix.  49,  and  Brisson  de 
Regn.  Pcrs.  1.  i.  c.  77. 

*  Sav.  «re£oAAc.    He  must  mean  the  brazen  bull  of  Phalaris. 

9  rlwc  6i  riiv  irp6r*pov.  And  besides  among  them  of  earlier 
times,  wealth  made  that  king,  the  warrior,  from  a  man,  a  woman; 
from  a  woman,  what  shall  I  say  ?  Savile  top,  which  is  better,  and 
neglected  by  Ed.  Par.  The  sequel  shows  that  the  same  king  is 
meant. 

*  [The  syntax  is  obscure,  and  the  passage  probably  corrupt;  but 
the  general  meaning  is  plain.  — J.  A.  B.] 

4  Alluding  to  Xerxes,  see  Herod,  vii.  35. 

*  aptJor.    St.  Clem.  Al.  mentions  the  like  absurdity,  Pasdag.  u.  3. 


for  this;  but  I  heed  them  not,  only  let  some 
good  result  from  it.  In  truth,  to  be  wealthy 
does  make  people  senseless  and  mad.  Did  their 
power  reach  to  such  an  excess,  they  would  have 
the  earth  too  of  gold,  and  walls  of  gold,  per- 
chance the  heaven  too,  and  the  air  of  gold. 
What  a  madness  is  this,  what  an  iniquity,  what  a 
burning  fever  !  Another,  made  after  the  image 
of  God,  is  perishing  of  cold ;  and  dost  thou  fur- 
nish thyself  with  such  things  as  these?  O  the 
senseless  pride  !  What  more  would  a  madman 
have  done  ?  Dost  thou  pay  such  honor  to  thine 
excrements,  as  to  receive  them  in  silver?  I 
know  that  ye  are  shocked  at  hearing  this ;  but 
those  women  that  make  such  things  ought  to  be 
shocked,  and  the  husbands  that  minister  to  such 
distempers.  For  this  is  wantonness,  and  savage- 
ness,  and  inhumanity,  and  briltishiiess,  and  las- 
civiousness.  What  Scylla,  what  chimaera,  what 
dragon,  yea  rather  what  demon,  what  devil 
would  have  acted  on  this  wise?  What  is  the 
benefit  of  Christ?  what  of  the  Faith. ?._when  one 
has  to  put  up  with  men  being  heathens,  yea 
rather,  not  heathens,  but  demons?  If  to  adorn 
the  head  with  gold  and  pearfe  be  not  right ;  one 
that  useth  silver  for  a  service  so  unclean,  how 
shall  he  obtain  pardon?  Is  not  the  rest  enough, 
although  even  it  is  not  bearable,  chairs  and  foot- 
stools all  of  silver?  although  even  these  come 
of  senselessness.  But  £Yei^herje_.i5,  .excessive 
pride ;  everywhere  is  vainglory.    Nowhere  is  it 


I  am  afraid  lest,  under  the  impulse  of  this 
madness,  the  race  of  woman  should  go  on  to 
assume  some  portentous  form :  for  it  is  likely 
that  they  will  wish  to  have  even  their  hair  of 
gold.  Else  declare  that  ye  were  not6  at  all 
affected  by  what  was  said,  nor  were  excited 
greatly,  and  fell  a  longing,  and  had  not  shame 
withheld  you,  would  not  have  refused.  For  if 
they  dare  to  do  what  is  even  more  absurd  than 
this,  much  more,  I  think,  will  they  long  for  their 
hair,  and  lips,  and  eyebrows,  and  every  part  to 
be  overlaid  with  molten  gold.     £  ^  ^  <  %  y .    \ 

But  if  ye  are  incredulous,  and  think  I ;  am 
'speaking  in  jest,  I  will  relate  what  I  have  heard, 
or  rather  what  is  now  existing.  The  king  of  the 
Persians  wears  his  beard  golden ;  those  who  are 
adepts  at  such  work  winding  leaf  of  gold  about 
his  hairs  as  about  the  woof,  and  it  is  laid  up  as 
a  prodigy. 

Glory  to  Thee,  O  Christ;  with  how  many 
good  things  hast  Thou  filled  us !  How  hast 
Thou  provided  for  our  health  !  From  how  great 
monstrousness,  from  how  great  unreasonable- 

•  [The  "not,"  though  found  in  all  documents,  seems  (Field) 
quite  out  of  place.  Without  it,  the  meaning  is,  "  Now  confess  that 
you  were  somewhat  attracted  towards  the  idea  expressed,  and 
started  up,  and  fell  a  longing,"  &c.    Copyists  probably  understood 

be  the  rebuke  just  given,  and  hence  felt  the 


"the  thing  said"  to 

"not"  to  be  necessary.— J.  A.  B.J 


Homily  VIII.] 


HOMILIES  ON  COLOSSIANS. 


293 


ness,  hast  Thou  set  us  free  !  Mark  !  I  forewarn 
you^I  advise  no  longer;  but  I  command  and 
charge ;  let  him  that  wills,  obey,  and  him  that 
wills  not,  be  disobedient;  that  if  ye  women  do 
continue. thus  to  act,  I  will  not  suffer  it,  nor  re- 
ceive you,  nor  permit  you  to  pass  across  this 
threshold.  For  what  need  have  I  of  a  crowd 
of  distempered  people?  And  what  if,  in  my 
training  of  you,  I  do  not  forbid  what  is  not1 
-  excessive  ?  And  yet  Eaulforbade  both  gold  and 
Bearlfw  (1  Tim.  ii.  g.)^W%~tt£  laughed  at  by 
th»  GradrByem  religion  appears  a  fable. 

And  to  the  men  I  give  this  advice  :  Art  thou 
come  to  school  to  be  instructed  in  spiritual 
philosophy?  Divest  thyself  of  that  pride  !  This 
is  my  advice  both  to  men  and  women ;  and  if 
any- act -otherwise,  henceforward  I  will  not  suffer 
kr  The  disciples  were  but  twelve,  and  hear 
what  Christ  saith  unto  them,  "Would  ye  also 
go  away?"  (John  vi.  67.)  For  if  we  g;o  on 
-JQLXxex.  flattering  you,  when  shall  we  "reclaim 
ys&jdtien  shall  we  do  you  service?  "But," 
saith  one,  "  there  are  other  sects,  and  people  go 
over."  This  is  a  cold  argument,  "  Better  is  one 
that  doeth  the  will  of  the  Lord,  than  ten  thou- 
sand transgressors."  (Ecclus.  xvi.  3.)  For, 
what  wouldest  thou  choose  thyself,  tell  me ;  to 
have  ten  thousand  servants  that  were  runaways 
and  thieves,  or  a  single  one  that  loved  thee? 
Lo !  I  admonish  and  command  you  to  break  up 
both  those  gay  deckings  for  the  face,  and  such 
vessels  as  I  have  described,  and  give  to  the 
poor,  and  not  to  be  so  mad. 

Let  him  that  likes  quit  me  at  once ;  let  him 
that  likes  accuse  me,  I  will  not  suffer  it  in  any 


one.  When  I  am  about  to  be  judged  at  the 
Tribunal  of  Christ,  ye  stand  afar  off,  and  your 
favor,  while  I  am  giving  in  my  account.  "  Those 
words  have  ruined  all !  he  says,3 '  let  him  not 4 
go  and  transfer  himself  to  another  sect ! '  Nay  ! 
he  is  weak  !  condescend  to  him  ! "  To  what 
point  ?  Till  when  ?  Once,  and  twice,  and  thrice, 
but  not  perpetually. 

Lo  !  I  charge  you  again,  and  protest  after  the 
pattern  of  the  blessed  Paul,  "that  if  I  come 
again  I  will  not  spare."  (2  Cor.  xiii.  2.)  But 
when  ye  have  done  as  ye  ought,  then  ye  will 
know  how  great  the  gain  is,  how  great  the  ad- 
vantage. Yes  !  I  entreat  and  beseech  you,  and 
would  not  refuse  to  clasp  your  knees  and  sup- 
plicate you  *  in  this  behalf.  What  softness  is  it  I 
What  luxury,  what  wantonness !  This  is  not 
luxury,  but  wantonness.  What  senselessness  is 
it !  What  madness  !  So  many  poor  stand  around 
the  Church ;  and  though  the  Church  has  so  many 
children,  and  so  wealthy,  she  is  unable  to  give 
relief  to  even  one  poor  person;  "but  one  is 
hungry,  and  another  is  drunken"  (1  Cor.  xi. 
21);  one  voideth  his  excrement  even  into  silver, 
another  has  not  so  much  as  bread  !  What  mad- 
ness !  what  brutishness  so  great  as  this?  May 
we  never  come  to  the  proof,  whether  we  will 
prosecute  the  disobedient,  nor  to  the  indignation 
which  allowing 8  these  practices  would  cause  us ; 
but  that  willingly  and  with  patience  we  may 
avoid  all  thisj  that  we  may  live  to  God's  glory, 
and  be  delivered  from  the  punishment  in  the 
other  world,  and  may  obtain  the  good  things 
promised  to  those  who  love  Him,  through  the 
grace  and  love  toward  man,  &c. 


1 


HOMILY    VIII. 

Colossians  iii.  5-7. 


••  Mortify  your  members  which  are  upon  the  earth ;  forni- 
cation, uncleanness,  passion,  evil  desire,  and  covet- 
ousness,  which  is  idolatry;  for  which  things'  sake, 
cometh  the  wrath  of  God  upon  the  sons  of  disobe-, 
dience;  in  the  which  ye  also  walked  aforetime, 
when  ye  lived  in  these  things." 

I  know  that  many  are  offended  by  the  fore- 
going discourse,  but  what  can  I  do?  ye  heard 
what  the  Master  enjoined.  Am  I  to  blame? 
what  shall  I  do?  See  ye  not  the  creditors, 
when  debtors  are  obstinate,  how  they  wear2 

1  [Here  again  the  "  not "  seems  unsuitable,  if  not  destructive  of 
the  sense,  and  is  omitted  by  Field.  — J.  A.  B.] 

*  [This  very  natural  inadvertence    in    free    speaking  is  duly 
changed,  by  the  group  of  MSS.  which  make  so  many  changes,  into 
how  they  put  collars  on  them."    These  wooden  collars  were  a 
x,  like  the  stocks. —J.  A.  B.] 


collars?  Heard  ye  what  Paul  proclaimed  to- 
day? "Mortify,"  he  saith,  "your  members 
which  are  upon  the  earth  ;  fornication,  unclean- 
ness, passion,  evil  desire,  and  covetousness, 
which  is  idolatry."  What  is  worse  than  such 
a  covetousness  ?  This  is  worse  than  any  desire. 
This  is  still  more  grievous  than  what  I  was 
speaking  of,  the  madness,  and  the  silly  weak- 
ness   about    silver.      "And   covetousness,"   he 


*  i.e.  the  Preacher  says. 

4  [Field  inserts  "  not"  upon  the  authority  of  one  MS.  The  sen- 
tence is  intelligible  without  it.  —  J.  A.  B.] 

6  iKtrrfpiav  Btlvai.  He  alludes  to  the  ancient  custom  of  formally 
supplicating  for  defense  or  relief,  as  by  sitting  on  the  hearth. 
Sopnocl.  CEd.  Tyr.  i,  &c. 

*  imrpttpai.  Perhaps  cwiTptyot,  "  aggravating,"  as  Ben.  t.  i.  p. 
34.  B,  and  p.  335.  A. 


294 


WORKS   OF   ST.    CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  VIII. 


saith,  "which  is  idolatry."  See  in  what  the 
evil  ends.  Do  not,  I  pray,  take  what  I  said 
amiss,  for  not  by  my  own  good-will,  nor  without 
reason,  would  I  have  enemies ;  but  I  was  wish- 
ful ye  should  attain  to  such  virtue,  as  that  I 
might  hear  of  you  the  things  I  ought.1  So  that 
I  said  it  not  for  authority's  sake,  nor  of  imperi- 
ousness,2  but  out  of  pain  and  of  sorrow.  For- 
give me,  forgive  !  I  have  no  wish  to  violate 
decency  by  discoursing  upon  such  subjects,  but 
I  am  compelled  to  it. 

Not  for  the  sake  of  the  sorrows  of  the  poor 
do  I  say  these  things,  but  for  your  salvation; 
for  they  will  perish,  will  perish,  that  have  not 
fed  Christ.  For  what,  if  thou  dost  feed  some 
poor  man?  still  so  long  as  thou  livest  so  volup- 
tuously and  luxuriously,  all  is  to  no  purpose. 
For  what  is  required  is,  not  the  giving  much, 
but  not  too  little  for  the  property  thou  hast; 
for  this  is  but  playing  at  it. 

"  Mortify  therefore  your  members,"  he  saith, 
"which  are  upon  the  earth."  What  sayest 
thou?  Was  it  not  thou  that  saidst,  "Ye  are 
buried ;  ye  are  buried  together  with  Him ;  ye 
are.  circumcised :  we  have  put  off  the  body  of 
the  sins  of  the  flesh"  (c.  ii.  n,  12  ;  Rom.  vi. 
4)  ;  how  then  again  sayest  thou, "  Mortify  "  ? s  Art 
thou  sporting?  Dost  thou  thus  discourse,  as 
though  those  things  were  in  us?  There  is  no 
contradiction ;  but  like  as  if  one,  who  has  clean 
scoured  a  statue  that  was  filthy,  or  rather  who 
has  recast  it,  and  displayed  it  bright  afresh,4 
should  say  that  the  rust  was  eaten  off  and  de- 
stroyed, and  yet  should  again  recommend  dili- 
gence in  clearing  away„  the  rust,  he  doth  not 
contradict  himself,  for  it  is  not  that  rust  which 
he  scoured  off  that  he  recommends  should  be 
cleared  away,  but  that  which  grew  afterwards ; 
so  it  is  not  that  former  putting  to  death  he 
speaks  of,  nor  those  fornications,  but  those 
which  do  afterwards  grow. 

He  said  that  this  is  not  our  life,  but  another, 
that  which  is  in  heaven.  Tell  me  now.  When 
he  said,  Mortify  your  members  that  are  upon 
the  earth,  is  then  the  earth  also  accused?  or 
does  he  speak  of  the  things  upon  the  earth  as 
themselves  sins?5 

"  Fornication,   uncleanness,"  he   saith.      He 

1  Or  perhaps,  "  I  could  wish  .  .  .  that  /  might  hear  from  you 
what  is  right."    Gr.  irap'  v^u>v.  * 

*  a£ib>^aro?,  wish  to  maintain  dignity. 
3  i.e.  put  to  death. 

*  [The  word  is  avw0n>,  as  in  John  iii.  3,  7,  and  here  necessarily 
means  anew  or  afresh,  —  a  sense  so  rare  as  to  justify  calling  atten- 
tion to  it.  —  J.  A.  B.J 

s  [This  is  a  passing  allusion  to  the  Manichscans,  who  held  that 
matter  is  necessarily  the  seat  of  evil,  and  might  try  to  interpret  the 
apostle  as  here  accusing  the  earth  of  being  evil.  The  passage  has 
been  expanded  in  the  often  above  mentioned  group  of  documents, 
and  so  in  the  editions  before  Field,  so  as  to  be  fuller  and  more  per- 
spicuous, thus:  "  But  lo!  say  the  heretics,  Paul  accuseth  the  crea- 
tion; for  he  said  before, '  Set  your  mind  on  the  things  that  are  above, 
not  on  the  things  that  are  upon  the  earth ';  again  he  saith,  •  Mortify 
your  members  which  are  upon  the  earth.'  But  the  words  '  upon 
earth  *  are  here  expressive  of  sin,  not  an  accusing  of  creation.  For 
it  is  thus  he  calls  sins  themselves,  things  upon  earth,  either  from 


has  passed  over  the  actions  which  it  is  not  be- 
coming even  to  mention,  and  by  "  uncleanness  " 
has  expressed  all  together. 

"Passion,"  he  said,  "evil  desire." 

Lo  1  he  has  expressed  the  whole  in  the  class. 
For  envy,  anger,  sorrow,  all  are  "  evil  desire." 

"  And  covetousness,"  he  saith,  "  which  is  idola- 
try. For  which  things'  sake  cometh  the  wrath 
of  God  upon  the  sons  of  disobedience." 

By  many  things  he  had  been  withdrawing 
them ;  by  the  benefits  which  are  already  given, 
by  the  evils  to  come  from  which  we  had  been 
delivered,  being  who,  and  wherefore ;  and  all 
those  considerations,  as,  for  instance,  who  we 
were,  and  in  what  circumstances,  and  that  we 
were  delivered  therefrom,  how,  and  in  what 
manner,  and  on  what  terms.  These  were 
enough  to  turn  one  away,  but  this  one  is  of 
greater  force  than  all;  unpleasant  indeed  to 
speak  of,  not  however  to  disservice,  but  even 
serviceable.  "  For  which  things'  sake  cometh," 
he  saith,  "  the  wrath  of  God  upon  the  sons  of 
disobedience."  He  said  not,  "  upon  you,"  but, 
"  upon  the  sons  of  disobedience." 

"  In  the  which  ye  also  walked  aforetime,  when 
ye  lived  in  them."  In  order  to  shame  them,  he 
saith,  "  when  ye  lived  in  them,"  and  implying 
praise,  as  now  no  more  so  living :  at  that  time 
they  might. 

Ver.  8.  "  But  now  put  ye  also  away  all  these." 

He  speaks  always  both  universally  and  par- 
ticularly ;  but  this  is  from  earnestness. 

Ver.  8,  9.  "Anger,  wrath,  malice,  railing, 
shameful  speaking  out  of  your  mouth.  Lie  not 
one  to  another." 

"  Shameful  speaking,"  he  saith,  "  out  of  your 
mouth,"  clearly  intimating  that  it  pollutes  it. 

Ver.  9,  10.  "Seeing  that  ye  have  put  off  the 
old  man  with  his  doings,  and  have  put  on  the 
new  man,  which  is  being  renewed  unto  knowl- 
edge after  the  image  of  Him  that  created  him." 

It  is  worth  enquiring  here,  what  can  be  the 
reason  why  he  calls  the  corrupt  life,  "  members," 
and  "  man,"  and  "  body,"  and  again  the  virtu- 
ous life,  the  same.  And  if  "  the  man  "  means 
"  sins,"  how  is  it  that  he  saith,  "with  his  doings  "  ? 
For  once  he  said,  "  the  old  man,"  showing  that 
this  is  not  man,  but  the  other.  The  moral  choice 
'doth  rather  determine  one  than  the  substance, 
and  is  rather  "  man  "  than  the  other.  For  his 
substance  casteth  him  not  into  hell,  nor  leadeth 
him  into  the  kingdom,  but  men  themselves  :  and 
we  neither  love  nor  hate  any  one  so  far  as  he  is 
man,  but  so  far  as  he  is  such  or  such  a  man.  If 
then  the  substance  be  the  body,  and  in  either 
sort  cannot  be  accountable,  how  doth  he  say 
that  it  is  evil  ?  6  But  what  is  that  he  saith,  "  with 

their  being  wrought  by  earthly  thoughts  and  upon  earth,  or  from 
their  showing  sinners  to  be  earthly."  —  J.  A.  B.] 
0  As  the  Manichees  interpreted  his  words. 


Homily  VIIL] 


HOMILIES  ON  COLOSSIANS. 


295 


his  doings  "  ?  He  means  the  choice,  with  the 
acts.  And  he  calleth  him  "  old,"  on  purpose  to 
show  his  deformity,  and  hideousness,  and  im- 
becility ;  and  "  new,"  as  if  to  say,  Do  not  expect 
that  it  will  be  with  this  one  even  as  with  the 
other,  but  the  reverse :  for  ever  as  he  farther  ad- 
vances, he  hasteneth  not  on  to  old  age,  but  to  a 
youthfulness  greater  than  the  preceding.  For 
when  he  hath  received  a  fuller  knowledge,  he  is 
both  counted  worthy  of  greater  things,  and  is  in 
more  perfect  maturity,  in  higher  vigor ;  and  this, 
not  from  youthfulness  alone,  but  from  that "  like- 
ness" also,  "  after  "  which  he  is.  Lo  !  the  best 
life  is  styled  a  creation,  after  the  image  of  Christ : 
for  this  is  the  meaning  of,  "  after  the  image  of 
Him  that  created  him,"  for  Christ  too  came  not 
finally  to  *  old  age,  but  was  so  beautiful  as  it  is 
not  even  possible  to  tell. 

Ver.  11.  "Where  there  cannot  be  Greek 
and  Jew,  circumcision  and  uncircumcision,  Bar- 
barian, Scythian,  bondman,  freeman :  but  Christ 
is  all,  and  in  all." 

Lo !  here  is  a  third  encomium  of  this  "  man." 
With  him,  there  is  no  difference  admitted  either 
of  nation,  or  of  rank,  or  of  ancestry,  seeing  he 
hath  nothing  of  externals,  nor  needeth  them ; 
for  all  external  things  are  such  as  these,  "  cir- 
cumcision, and  uncircumcision,  bondman,  free- 
man, Greek,"  that  is,  proselyte,  "and  Jew,"  from 
his  ancestors.     If  thou  have  only  this  "  man," 
thou  wilt  obtain  the  same  things  with  the  others 
that  have  him. 

"  But  Christ,"  he  saith,  "  is  all,  and  in  ah  "  : 
Christ  will  be  all  things  to  you,  both  rank,  and 
descent,  "  and  "  Himself  "  in  you  all."  Or  he 
says  another  thing,  to  wit,  that  ye  all  are  be- 
come one  Christ,  being  His  body. 

Ver.  12.  "Put  on,  therefore,  as  the  elect  of 
God,  holy  and  beloved." 

He  shows  the  easiness  of  virtue,  so  that  they 
might  both  possess  it  continually,  and  use  it  as 
the  greatest  ornament.  The  exhortation  is  ac- 
companied also  with  praise,  for  then  its  force  is 
greatest.  For  they  had  been  before 2  holy,  but 
not  elect ;  but  now  both  "  elect,  and  holy,  and 
beloved." 

"A  heart  of  compassion."  He  said  not 
44  mercy,"  but  with  greater  emphasis  used  the 
two  words.  And  he  said  not,  that  it  should  be 
as  towards  brethren,  but,  as  fathers  towards  chil- 
dren. For  tell  me  not  that  he  sinned,  therefore 
he  said  "  a  heart."  And  he  said  not  "  compas- 
sion," lest  he  should  place  them8  in  light  esti- 
mation, but  "  a  heart  of  compassion,  kindness, 
humility,   meekness,    longsuffering ;    forbearing 

1  ©v  vpfrf  y^pof  rrcAtvnprer,  Lat.  "  Nee  senex  mortuus  est " 
(died  not  old).  But  the  other  sense  seems  more  suitable.  In  either 
*ense  it  is  opposed  to  the  view  ascribed  to  Byzantine  artists.  See 
Rio's  Poesie  Chre'tienne. 

*  hfivovTQ,  i.e.  he  had  before  called  them  holy,  c.  1.  v.  a. 

*  cctuovc,  "  the  objects." 


one  another,  and  forgiving  each  other,  if  any 
man  have  a  complaint  against  any :  even  as 
Christ  forgave  you,  so  also  do  ye." 

Again,  he  speaks  after  the  class,4  and  he  al- 
ways does  it ;  for  from  kindness  comes  humble- 
ness of  mind,  and  from  this,  longsuffering. 
"  Forbearing,"  he  saith,  "  one  another,"  that  is, 
passing  things  over.5  And  see,  how  he  has  shown 
it  to  be  nothing,  by  calling  it  a  "complaint,"  and 
saying,  "  even  as  Christ  forgave  you."  Great  is 
the  example  !  and  thus  he  always  does ;  he  ex- 
horts them  after  Christ.  "  Complaint,"  he  calls 
it.  In  these  words  indeed  he  showed  it  to  be  a 
petty  matter;  but  when  he  has  set  before  us 
the  example,  he  has  persuaded  us  that  even  if 
we  had  serious  charges  to  bring,  we  ought  to 
forgive.  For  the  expression,  "  Even  as  Christ," 
signifies  this,  and  not  this  only,  but  also  with  all 
the  heart;  and  not  this  alone,  but  that  they 
ought  even  to  love.  For  Christ  being  brought 
into  the  midst,  bringeth  in  all  these  things,  both 
that  even  if  the  matters  be  great,  and  even  if  we 
have  not  been  the  first  to  injure,  even  if  we  be 
of  great,  they  of  small  account,  even  if  they  are 
sure  to  insult  us  afterwards,  we  ought  to  lay  down 
our  lives  for  them,  (for  the  words,  "  even  as," 
demand  this ;}  and  that  not  even  at  death  only 
ought  one  to  stop,  but  if  possible,  to  go  on  even 
after  death. 

Ver.  14.  "  And  above  all  these  things  put  on 
love,  which  is  the  bond  of  perfectness." 

Dost  thou  see  that  he  saith  this?  For  since 
it  is  possible  for  one  who  forgives,  not  to  love ; 
yea,  he  saith,  thou  must  love  him  too,  and  he 
points  out  a  way  whereby  it  becomes  possible  to 
forgive.  For  it  is  possible  for  one  to  be  kind, 
and  meek,  and  humbleminded,  and  longsuffer- 
ing, and  yet  not  affectionate.  And  therefore,  he 
said  at  the  first,  "  A  heart  of  compassion,"  both 
love  and  pity.  "And  above  all  these  things, 
love,  which  is  the  bond  of  perfectness."  Now 
what  he  wishes  to  say  is  this ;  that  there  is  no 
profit  in  those  things,  for  all  those  things  fall 
asunder,  except  they  be  done  with  love  ;  this  it 
is  which  clenches  them  all  together ;  whatsoever 
good  thing  it  be  thou  mentionest,  if  love  be 
away,  it  is  nothing,  it  melts  away.  And  it  is  as 
in  a  ship,  even  though  her  rigging  be  large,  yet 
if  there  be  no  girding  ropes,  it  is  of  no  service ; 
and  in  an  house,  if  there  be  no  tie  beams,  it  is 
the  same ;  and  in  a  body,  though  the  bones  be 
large,  if  there  be  no  ligaments,  they  are  of  no 
service.  For  whatsoever  good  deeds  any  may 
have,  all  do  vanish  away,  if  love  be  not  there. 
He  said  not  that  it  is  the  summit,  but  what  is 
greater,  "the  bond  "  ;  this  is  more  necessary  than 
the  other.  For  "summit"  indeed  is  an  intensity 
of  perfectness,  but  "  bond  "  is  the  holding  fast 

4  k<lt  c!£oc ,  from  genus  to  species,  as  remarked  above,  on  v.  7. 
8  irapan-c/iiro/icfoi,  al.  rrapa6ix6fityott  "  receiving  one  another." 


296 


WORKS   OF   ST.    CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  VIII. 


together  of  those  things  which  produce  the  per- 
fectness ;  it  is,  as  it  were,  the  root. 

Ver.  15.  "And  let  the  peace  of  God  rule  in 
your  hearts,  to  the  which  also  ye  were  called  in 
one  body ;  and  be  ye  thankful." 

"The  peace  of  God."  This  is  that  which  is 
fixed  and  steadfast.  If  on  man's  account  in- 
deed thou  hast  peace,  it  quickly  comes  to  disso- 
lution, but  if  on  God's  account,  never.  Although 
he  had  spoken  of  love  universally,  yet  again  he 
comes  to  the  particular.  For  there  is  a  love  too 
which  is  immoderate ;  for  instance,  when  out  of 
much  love  one  makes  accusations  without  rea- 
son, and  is  engaged  in  contentions,  and  con- 
tracts aversions.  Not  this,  saith  he,  not  this  do 
I  desire ;  not  overdoing  things,1  but  as  God 
made  peace  with  you,  so  do  ye  also  make  it. 
How  made  He  peace  ?  Of  His  own  will,  not 
having  received  anything  of  you.  What  is  this? 
"  Let  the  peace  of  God  rule2  in  your  hearts."  If 
two  thoughts  are  fighting  together,  set  not  anger, 
set  not  spitefulness  to  hold  the  prize,  but  peace ; 
for  instance,  suppose  one  to  have  been  insulted 
unjustly ;  of  the  insult  are  born  two  thoughts, 
the  one  bidding  him  to  revenge,  the  other  to 
endure ;  and  these  wrestle  with  one  another :  if 
the  Peace  of  God  stand  forward?  as  umpire,  it 
bestows  the  prize  on  that  which  bids  endure,  and 
puts  the  other  to  shame.  How?  by  persuading 
him  that  God  is  Peace,  that  He  hath  made 
peace  with  us.  Not  without  reason  he  shows 
the  great  struggle  there  is  in  the  matter.  Let 
not  anger,  he  saith,  act  as  umpire,  let  not  con- 
tentiousness, let  not  human  peace,  for  human 
peace  cometh  of  avenging,  of  suffering  no  dread- 
ful ill.  But  not  this  do  I  intend,  he  saith,  but 
that  which  He  Himself  left. 

He  hath  represented  an  arena  within,  in  the 
thoughts,  and  a  contest,  and  a  wrestling,  and  an 
umpire.  Then  again,  exhortation,  "  to  the  which 
ye  were  called,"  he  saith,  that  is,  for  the  which 
ye  were  called.  He  has  reminded  them  of  how 
many  good  things  peace  is  the  cause ;  on  account 
of  this  He  called  thee,  for  this  He  called  thee, 
so  as  to  receive  a  worthy  8  prize.  For  wherefore 
made  He  us  "  one  body  "  ?  Was  it  not  that  she 
might  rule?  Was  it  not  that  we  might  have 
occasion  of  being  at  peace  ?  Wherefore  are  we 
all  one  body?  and  now  are  we  one  body?  Be- 
cause of  peace  we  are  one  body,  and  because 
we  are  one  body,  we  are  at  peace*  But  why 
said  he  not,  "  Let  the  peace  of  God  be  victori- 
ous," but  "  be  umpire  "  ?  He  made  her  the 
more  honorable.  He  would  not  have  the  evil 
thought  to  come  to  wrestle  with  her,  but  to  stand 

1  [Literally,  "not  superperfectly,"  a  singular  expression,  omitted 
in  all  editions  before  Field,  but  found  in  all  the  MSS.  he  cites. — 
—  J.  A.  B.] 

2  [Literally,  act  as  umpire,  or  as  judge  in  the  games.  — J.  A.  8.] 
s  a$t6m<TTov.    Usually  "  worthy  of  credit,"  but  sometimes  rather 

in  a  secondary  sense,  "  worthy  of  honor." 


below.  And  the  very  name  "prize"  cheered 
the  hearer.  For  if  she  have  given  the  prize  to 
the  good  thought,  however  impudently  the  other 
behave,  it  is  thereafter  of  no  use.  And  besides, 
the  other  being  aware  that,  perform  what  feats 
he  might,  he  should  not  receive  the  prize ;  how- 
ever he  might  puff,  and  attempt  still  more  vehe- 
ment onsets,  would  desist  as  laboring  without 
profit.  And  he  well  added,  "  And  be  ye  thank- 
ful." For  this  is  to  be  thankful,  and  very  effec- 
tively,4 to  deal  with  his  fellow-servants  as  God 
doth  with  himself,  to  submit  himself  to  the 
Master,  to  obey ;  to  express  his  gratitude  for  all 
things,4  even  though  one  insult  him,  or  beat 
him. 

For  in  truth  he  that  confesses  thanks  due  to 
God  for  what  he  suffers,  will  not  revenge  him- 
self on  him  that  has  done  him  wrong,  since  he 
at  least  that  takes  revenge,  acknowledges  no 
gratitude.  But  let  not  us  follow  him  (that  ex- 
acted) 6  the  hundred  pence,  lest  we  hear,  "Thou 
wicked  servant,"  for  nothing  is  worse  than  this 
ingratitude.  So  that  they  who  revenge  are 
ungrateful. 

But  why  did  he  begin  his  list  with  fornication  ? 
For  having  said,  "  Mortify  your  members  which 
are  upon  the  earth"  (c.  iii.  5),  he  immediately 
says, "  fornication  " ;  and  so  he  does  almost  every- 
where. Because  this  passion  hath  the  greatest 
sway.  For  even  when  writing  his  Epistle  to  the 
Thessalonians  he  did  the  same.  (1  Thess.  iv.  3.) 
And  what  wonder?  since  to  Timothy  even  he 
saith,  "  Keep  thyself  pure  "  (1  Tim.  v.  22)  ;  and 
again  elsewhere,  "Follow  after  peace  with  all 
men,  and  the  sanctification,"  without  which  "  no 
man  shall  see  the  Lord."  (Heb.  xii.  14.)  "  Put 
to  death,"  he  says,  "  your  members."  Ye  know 
of  what  sort  that  is  which  is  dead,  namely,  hated, 
loathed,  dropping  to  decay.  If  thou  put  any- 
thing to  death,  it  doth  not  when  dead  continue 
dead,  but  presently  is  corrupted,  like  the  body. 
Extinguish  then  the  heat;  and  nothing  that  is 
dead  will  continue.  He  shows  one  having  the 
same  thing  in  hand,  which  Christ  wrought  in  the 
Laver;  therefore  also  he  calleth  them  "mem- 
bers," as  though  introducing  some  champion, 
thus  advancing  his  discourse  to  greater  emphasis. 
And  he  well  said,  "  Which  are  upon  the  earth," 
for  here  they  continue,  and  here  they  are  cor- 
rupted, far  rather  than  these  our  members.  So 
that  not  so  truly  is  the  body  of  the  earth,  as  sin 
is  earthly,  for  the  former  indeed  appears  even 
beautiful  at  times,  but  those  members  never. 
And  those  members  lust  after  all  things  that  are 

4  This  must  mean  "  in  a  way  that  has  power  of  prevailing  with 
God,"  so  to  speak,  "  putting  Him  to  shame,  if  he  do  not  grant  the 
favor."    Comp.  Hebrew  vi.  10. 

*  [Compare  Chrys.'s  famous  motto,  "Glory  to  God  for  all 
things". -j.  A.  B.j 

•  Sav.  fand  one  MS.  1  has  ixfrtiXovra,  "  that  owed,"  which  make* 
no  sense;  MSS.  Par.  only  rbv  ra  cjcarb?;  Downes  conj.  auraiTovvra 
ra. 


Homily  VIII.] 


HOMILIES  ON  COLOSSIANS. 


297 


upon  the  earth.  If  the  eye  be  such,  it  seeth 
not  the  things  in  the  heavens ;  if  the  ear,  if  the 
hand,  if  thou  mention  any  other  member  what- 
soever. The  eye  seeth  bodies,  and  beauties, 
and  riches;  these  are  the  things  of  earth,  with 
these  it  is  delighted :  the  ear  with  soft  strains, 
and  harp,  and  pipe,  and  filthy  talking;  these 
are  things  which  are  concerned  with  earth. 

When  therefore  he  has  placed  his  hearers 
above,  near  the  throne,  he  then  says,  "  Mortify 
your  members  which  are  upon  the  earth."  For 
it  is  not  possible  to  stand  above  with  these 
members;  for  there  is  nothing  there  for  them 
to  work  upon.  And  this  clay  is  worse  than  that, 
for  that  clay  indeed  becometh  gold,  "for  this 
corruptible,"  he  saith,  "  must  put  on  incorrup- 
tion  "  (1  Cor.  xv.  53),  but  this  clay  can  never 
be  retempered  more.  So  that  these  members 
are  rather  "  upon  the  earth  "  than  those.  There- 
fore he  said  not,  "  of  the  earth,"  but,  "  which 
are  upon  the  earth,"  for  it  is  possible  that  these 
should  not  be  upon  the  earth.  For  it  is  neces- 
sary that  these1  should  be  "upon  the  earth,"  but 
that  those3  should,  is  not  necessary.  For  when 
the  ear  hears  nothing  of  what  is  here  uttered,  but 
only  in  the  heavens,  when  the  eye  sees  nothing 
of  what  is  here,  but  only  what  is  above,  it  is  not 
"  upon  the  earth  " ;  when  the  mouth  speaketh 
nothing  of  the  things  here,  it  is  not  "  upon  the 
earth  " ;  when  the  hand  doeth  no  evil  thing  — 
these  are  not  of  things  "  upon  the  earth,"  but 
of  those  in  the  heavens. 

So  Christ  also  saith,  "  If  thy  right  eye  causeth 
thee  to  stumble,"  that  is,  if  thou  lookest  un- 
chastely,  "cut  it  out"  (Matt.  v.  29) ^  that  is, 
thine  evil  thought.  And  he  (Paul)  seems  to 
me  to  speak  of  "  fornication,  uncleanness,  pas- 
sion, desire,"  as  the  same,  namely  fornication : 
by  means  of  all  these  expressions  drawing  us 
away  from  that  thing.  For  in  truth  this  is  "  a 
passion  " ;  and  like  as  the  body  is  subject  to  any 
affection,  either  to  fever  or  to  wounds,  so  also 
is  it  with  thjs.  And  he  said  not  Restrain,  but 
"Mortify"  (put  to  death),  so  that  they  never 
rise  up  more,  and  "  put  them  away."  That 
which  is  dead,  we  put  away;  for  instance,  if 
there  be  callosities  in  the  body,  their  body  is 
dead,  and  we  put  it  away.  Now,  if  thou  cut 
into  that  which  is  quick,  it  produces  pain,  but 
if  into  that  which  is  dead,  we  are  not  even  sen- 
sible of  it.  So,  in  truth,  is  it  with  the  passions ; 
they  make  the  soul  unclean ;  they  make  the  soul, 
which  is  immortal,  passible. 

How  covetousness  is  said  to  be  idolatry,  we 
have  oftentimes  explained.  For  the  things  which 
do  most  of  all  lord  it  over  the  human  race,  are 
these,  covetousness,  and  unchasteness,  and  evil 
desire.     "For  which  things'  sake  cometh,"  he 


1  The  sinful  passion*. 


•  The  bodily  organs. 


saith,  "  the  wrath  of  God  upon  the  sons  of  diso- 
bedience." Sons  of  disobedience,  he  calls  them, 
to  deprive  them  of  excuse,  and  to  show  that  it 
was  because  they  would  not  be  obedient,  that 
they  were  in  that  condition.  "  In  the  which  ye 
also,"  he  saith,  "  walked  aforetime,"  and  (after- 
ward) became  obedient.  He  points  them  out 
as  still  in  them,  and  praises  them,  saying,  "  But 
now  do  ye  also  put  away  all  these,  anger,  wrath, 
malice,  railing,  shameful  speaking."  But  against 
others  he  advanceth  his  discourse.  Under  the 
head  of  "  passion  and  railing "  he  means  revil- 
ings,  just  as  under  "  wrath  "  he  means  wicked- 
ness.8 And  in  another  place,  to  shame  them,  he 
says,  "  for  we  are  members  one  of  another." 
(Eph.  iv.  25.)  He  makes  them  out  to  be  as 
it  were  manufacturers  of  men ;  casting  away 
this  one,  and  receiving  that.  He  spoke  of  a 
man's  "members"  (v.  5)  ;  here  he  saith,  "all." 
He  spoke  of  his  heart,  wrath,  mouth,  blasphemy, 
eyes,  fornication,  covetousness,  hands  and  feet, 
lying,  the  understanding  itself,  and  the  old  mind. 
One  royal  form  it  hath,  that,  namely,  of  Christ. 
They  whom  he  has  in  view,  appear  to  me  rather 
to  be  of  the  Gentiles.  For  like  as  earth,  being 
but  sand,  even  though  one  part  be  greater,  an- 
other less,  losing  its  own  previous  form,  doth 
afterwards  become  gold;  and  like  as  wool,  of 
whatever  kind  it  be,  receiveth  another  aspect, 
and  hides  its  former  one  :  so  truly  is  it  also  with 
the  faithful.  "  Forbearing,"  he  saith,  "  one  an- 
other " ;  he  showeth  what  is  just.  Thou  for- 
bearest  him,  and  he  thee ;  and  so  he  says  in  the 
Epistle  to  the  Galatians,  "  Bear  ye  one  another's 
burdens."  (Gal.  vi.  2.)  "And  be  ye  thankful," 
he  saith.  For  this  is  what  he  everywhere  espe- 
cially seeks ;  the  chiefest  of  good  things. 

Give  we  thanks  then  in  all  things ;  whatever 
may  have  happened ;  for  this  is  thankfulness. 
For  to  do  so  in  prosperity  indeed,  is  no  great 
thing,  for  the  nature  of  the  circumstances  of  it- 
self impels  one  thereto  ;  but  when  being  in  ex- 
tremities we  give  thanks,  then  it  is  admirable. 
For  when,  in  circumstances  under  which  others 
blaspheme,  and  exclaim  discontentedly,  we  give 
thanks,  see  how  great  philosophy  is  here.  First, 
thou  hast  rejoiced  God ;  next,  thou  hast  shamed 
the  devil;  thirdly,  thou  hast  even  made  that 
which  hath  happened  to  be  nothing ;  for  all  at 
once,  thou  both  givest  thanks,  and  God  cuts 
short  the  pain,  and  the  devil  departs.  For  if 
thou  have  exclaimed  discontentedly,  he,  as  hav- 
ing succeeded  to  his  wish,  standeth  close  by 
thee,  and  God,  as  being  blasphemed,  leaveth 
thee,  and  thy  calamity  is  heightened;  but  if 
thou  have  given  thanks,  he,  as  gaining  nought, 
departs;  and  God,  as  being  honored,  requites 

8  He  means  that  the  word  used  expresses  a  natural  emotion  or 
act,  but  the  abuse  of  this  is  intended;  and  so  it  may  be  necessary  to 
speak  evil  of  one. 


298 


WORKS   OF    ST.    CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  VIII. 


thee  with  greater  honor.  And  it  is  not  possible, 
that  a  man,  who  giveth  thanks  for  his  evils, 
should  be  sensible  of  them.  For  his  soul  re- 
joiceth,  as  doing  what  is  right;  forthwith  his 
conscience  is  bright,  it  exults  in  its  own  com- 
mendation ;  and  that  soul  which  is  bright,  can- 
not possibly  be  sad  of  countenance.  But  in  the 
other  case,  along  with  the  misfortune,  conscience 
also  assails  him  with  her  lash ;  whilst  in  this, 
she  crowns,  and  proclaims  him. 

Nothing  is  holier  than  that  tongue,  which  in 
evils  giveth  thanks  to  God ;  truly  in  rfo  respect 
doth  it  fall  short  of  that  of  martyrs ;  both  are 
alike  crowned,  both  this,  and  they.  For  over 
this  one  also  stands  the  executioner  to  force  it 
to  deny  God,  by  blasphemy ;  the  devil  stands 
over  it,  torturing  it  with  executioner  thoughts, 
darkening  it  with  despondencies.  If  then  one 
bear  his  griefs,  and  give  thanks,  he  hath  gained 
a  crown  of  martyrdom.  For  instance,  is  her 
little  child  sick,  and  doth  she  give  God  thanks  ? 
this  is  a  crown  to  her.  What  torture  so  bad 
that  despondency  is  not  worse  ?  still  it  doth  not 
force  her  to  vent  forth  a  bitter  word.  It  dies  : 
again  she  hath  given  thanks.  She  hath  become 
the  daughter  of  Abraham.  For  if  she  sacrificed 
not  with  her  own  hand,  yet  was  she  pleased 
with  the  sacrifice,  which  is  the  same ;  she  felt 
no  indignation  when  the  gift  was  taken  away. 

Again,  is  her  child  sick?  She  hath  made  no 
amulets.1  It  is  counted  to  her  as  martyrdom, 
for  she  sacrificed  her  son  in  her  resolve.  For 
what,  even  though  those  things  are  unavailing, 
and  a  mere  cheat  and  mockery,  still  there  were 
nevertheless  those  who  persuaded  her  that  they 
do  avail :  and  she  chose  rather  to  see  her  child 
dead,  than  to  put  up  with  idolatry.  As  then 
she  is  a  martyr,  whether  it  be  in  her  own  case, 
or  in  her  son's,  that  she  hath  thus  acted  ;  or  in 
her  husband's,  or  in  any  other's  of  her  dearest ; 
so  is  that  other  one  an  idolatress.  For  it  is  evi- 
dent that  she  would  have  done  sacrifice,  had  it 
been  allowed  her  to  do  sacrifice;  yea,  rather, 
she  hath  even  now  performed  the  act  of  sacri- 
fice. For  these  amulets,  though  they  who  make 
money  by  them  are  forever  rationalizing  about 
them,  and  saying,  "  we  call  upon  God,  and  do 
nothing  extraordinary,"  and  the  like ;  and  "  the 
old  woman  is  a  Christian,"  says  he,  "  and  one 
of  the  faithful " ;  the  thing  is  idolatry.  Art 
thou  one  of  the  faithful  ?  sign  the  Cross ;  say, 
this  I  have  for  my  only  weapon ;  this  for  my 
remedy ;  and  other  I  know  none.  Tell  me,  if 
a  physician  should  come  to  one,  and,  neglecting 
the  remedies  belonging  to  his  art,  should  use 
incantation,  should  we  call  that  man  a  physi- 
cian?    By  no  means  :  for  we  see  not  the  medi- 

1  n-eptairra.  See  on  Stat.  Horn.  xix.  p.  470  and  note  4.  Perhaps 
it  should  be  tvtfiprc,  "  she  hath  tied  on.'1 


cines  of  the  healing  art ;  so  neither,  in  this  case, 
do  we  see  those  of  Christianity. 

Other  women  again  tie  about  them8  the  names 
of  rivers,  and  venture  numberless  things  of  like 
nature.  Lo,  I  say,  and  forewarn  you  all,  that 
if  any  be  detected,  I  will  not  spare  them  again, 
whether  they  have  made  amulet,  or  incantation, 
or  any  other  thing  of  such  an  art  as  this.  What 
then,  saith  one,  is  the  child  to  die  ?  If  he  have 
lived  through  this  means,  he  did  then  die,  but  if 
he  have  died  without  this,  he  then  lived.  But 
now,  if  thou  seest  him  attaching  himself  to  har- 
lots, thou  wishest  him  buried,  and  sayest,  "  why, 
what  good  is  it  for  him  to  live  ?  "  but  when  thou 
seest  him  in  peril  of  his  salvation,  dost  thou  wish 
to  see  him  live  ?  Heardest  thou  not  Christ  say- 
ing, "  He  that  loseth  his  life,  shall  find  it ;  and 
he  that  findeth  it,  shall  lose  it"?  (Matt.  xvi. 
25.)  Believest  thou  these  sayings,  or  do  they 
seem  to  thee  fables?  Tell  me  now,  should  one 
say,  "  Take  him  away  to  an  idol  temple,  and  he 
will  live  "  ;  wouldest  thou  endure  it?  No  !  she 
replies.  Why?  "Because,"  she  saith,  "he 
urges  me  to  commit  idolatry ;  but  here,  there 
is  no  idolatry,  but  simple  incantation :  "  this  is 
the  device  of  Satan,  this  is  that  wiliness  of  the 
devil  to  cloak  over  the  deceit,  and  to  give  the 
deleterious  drug  in  honey.  After  he  found  that 
he  could  not  prevail  with  thee  in  the  other  way,8 
he  hath  gone  this  way  about,  to  stitched  charms, 
and  old  wives'  fables ;  and  the  Cross  indeed  is 
dishonored,  and  these  charms  preferred  before 
it.  Christ  is  cast  out,  and  a  drunken  and  silly 
old  woman  is  brought  in.  That  mystery  of  ours 
is  trodden  under  foot,  and  the  imposture  of  the 
devil  dances. 

Wherefore  then,  saith  one,  doth  not  God  re- 
prove the  aid  from  such  sources  ?   He  hath  many— 
times  reproved,  and   yet   hath   not   persuader^ 
thee ;  He  now  leaveth  thee  to  thine  error,  for  Ifczz 
saith,   "God  gave  them  up  unto  a  reprobates 

mind."     (Rom.   i.   28.)     These   things,   more 

over,  not  even  a  Greek  who  hath  understanding^ 
could  endure.  A  certain  demagogue  in  Athen  -= 
is  reported  once  to  have  hung  these  things  aboi 
him :  when  a  philosopher  who  was  his  instruc 
tor,  on  beholding  them,  rebuked  him,  expost 
lated,  satirized,  made  sport  of  him.  For  in 
wretched  a  plight  are  we,  as  even  to  believe 
these  things  ! 

Why,  saith  one,  are  there  not  now  those  wb 
raise  the  dead,  and  perform  cures  ?    Yes,  the 
why,  I  say :  why  are  there  not  now  those  w 
have  a  contempt  for  this  present  life  ?     Do 
serve  God  for  hire?    When  man's  nature 
weaker,   when   the   Faith   had   to   be   plant 
there  were  even  many  such ;  but  now  he  wo 


*  i.e.  their  children,  vcpiairrovo't.     In  what  he  says  pre 
after,  he  must  be  referring  to  the  temporal  ill  effects  of  immoralL 
3  i.e.  of  direct  idolatry. 


Homily  VIII.] 


HOMILIES   ON   COLOSSIANS. 


299 


not  have  us  to  hang  upon  these  signs,  but  to  be 
ready  for  death.  Why  then  clingest  thou  to  the 
present  life  ?  why  lookest  thou  not  on  the  future  ? 
and  for  the  sake  of  this  indeed  canst  bear  even 
to  commit  idolatry,  but  for  the  other  not  so 
much  as  to  restrain  sadness?  For  this  cause  it 
is  that  there  are  none  such  now ;  because  that 
(future)  life  hath  seemed  to  us  honorless,  seeing 
that  for  its  sake  we  do  nothing,  whilst  for  this, 
there  is  nothing  we  refuse  to  undergo.  And 
why  too  that  other  farce,  ashes,  and  soot,  and 
salt  ?  and  the  old  woman  again  brought  in  ?  A 
farce  truly,  and  a  shame  !  And  then,  "  an  eye," 
say  they,  "  hath  caught  the  child." 

Where  will  these  satanical  doings  end?  How 
will  not  the  Greeks  laugh?  how  will  they  not 
gibe  when  we  say  unto  them,  "  Great  is  the  vir- 
tue of  the  Cross  "  ;  how  will  they  be  won,  when 
they  see  us  having  recourse  to  those  things, 
which  themselves  laugh  to  scorn?  Was  it  for 
this  that  God  gave  physicians  and  medicines? 
What  then  ?  Suppose  they  do  not  cure  him,  but 
the  child  depart?  WTiither  will  he  depart?  tell 
me,  miserable  and  wretched  one  !  Will  he  de- 
part to  the  demons?  Will  he  depart  to  some 
tyrant?  Will  he  not  depart  to  heaven?  Will 
he  not  depart  to  his  own  Lord?  Why  then 
grievest  thou  ?  why  weepest  thou  ?  why  mournest 
thou?  why  lovest  thou  thine  infant  more  than 
thy  Lord?  Is  it  not  through  Him  that  thou 
hast  this  also  ?  Why  art  thou  ungrateful  ?  Dost 
thou  love  the  gift  more  than  the  Giver  ?  "  But  I 
am  weak,"  she  replies,  "  and  cannot  bear  the  fear 
of  God."  Well,  if  in  bodily  evils  the  greater 
covers  the  less,  much  rather  in  the  soul,  fear  de- 
stroyed fear,  and  sorrow,  sorrow.  Was  the  child 
beautiful?  But  be  it  what  it  may,  not  more 
beauteous  is  he  than  Isaac  :  and  he  too  was  an 
only  one.  Was  it  born  in  thine  old  age  ?  So 
too  was  he.  But  is  it  fair  ?  Well :  however  fair 
it  may  be,  it  is  not  lovelier  than  Moses  (Acts  vii. 
20),  who  drew  even  barbarian  eyes  unto  a  ten- 
der love  of  him,  and  this  too  at  a  time  of  life 
when  beauty  is  not  yet  disclosed ;  and  yet  this 
beloved  thing  did  the  parents  cast  into  the  river. 
Thou  indeed  both  seest  it  laid  out,  and  deliverest 
it  to  the  burying,  and  goest  to  its  monument ; 
but  they  did  not  so  much  as  know  whether  it 
would  be  food  for  fishes,  or  for  dogs,  or  for 
other  beasts  that  prey  in  the  sea ;  and  this  they 
did,  knowing  as  yet  nothing  of  the  Kipgdom, 
nor  of  the  Resurrection. 

But  suppose  it  is  not  an  only  child ;  but  that 
after  thou  hast  lost  many,  this  also  hath  departed. 
But  not  so  sudden  is  thy  calamity  as  was  Job's, 
and  (his  was)  of  sadder  aspect?1  It  is  not 
when  a  roof  has  fallen  in,  it  is  not  as  they  are 


1  [This  abrupt  sentence  was  expanded  as  usual,  in  what  came 
to  be  the  common  printed  text.  — J.  A.  B.] 


feasting  the  while,  it  is  not  following  on  the 
tidings  of  other  calamities. 

But  was  it  beloved  by  thee  ?  But  not  more 
so  than  Joseph,  the  devoured  of  wild  beasts ; 
but  still  the  father  bore  the  calamity,  and  that 
which  followed  it,  and  the  next  to  that  He 
wept ;  but  acted  not  with  impiety  ;  he  mourned, 
but  he  uttered  not  discontent,  but  stayed  at 
those  words,  saying,  "Joseph  is  not,  Simeon  is 
not,  and  will  ye  take  Benjamin  away?  all  these 
things  are  against  me."2  (Gen. xlii.  36.)  Seest 
thou  how  the  constraint  of  famine  prevailed  with 
him  to  be  regardless  of  his  children?  and  doth 
not  the  fear  of  God  prevail  with  thee  as  much  as 
famine  ? 

Weep :  I  do  not  forbid  thee :  but  aught 
blasphemous  neither  say  nor  do.  Be  thy  child 
what  he  may,  he  is  not  like  Abel ;  and  yet 
nought  of  this  kind  did  Adam  say;  although 
that  calamity  was  a  sore  one,  that  his  brother 
should  have  killed  him.  But  I  am  reminded  of 
others  also  that  have  killed  their  brothers ;  when, 
for  instance,  Absalom  killed  Amnon  the  eldest 
born  (2  Sam.  13),  and  King  David  loved  his 
child,8  and  sat  indeed  in  sackcloth  and  ashes, 
but  he  neither  brought  soothsayers,  nor  en- 
chanters, (although  there  were  such  then,  as 
Saul  shows,)  but  he  made  supplication  to  God. 
So  do  thou  likewise :  as  that  just  man  did,  so 
do  thou  also ;  the  same  words  say  thou,  when 
thy  child  is  dead,  "  I  shall  go  to  him,  but  he 
will  not  come  to  me."  (2  Sam.  xii.  23.)  This 
is  true  wisdom^  this  is  affection.  However  much 
thou  mayst  love  thy  child,  thou  wilt  not  love  so 
much  as  he  did  then.  For  even  though  his 
child  were  born  of  adultery,  yet  that  blessed 
man's  love  of  the  mother  was  at  its  height,4  and 
ye  know  that  the  offspring  shares  the  love  of  the 
parents.  And  so  great  was  his  love  toward  it, 
that  he  even  wished  it  to  live,  though  it  would 
be  his  own  accuser,  but  still  he  gave  thanks  to 
God.  What,  thinkest  thou,  did  Rebecca  suffer, 
when  his  brother  threatened  Jacob,  and  she 
grieved  not  her  husband,  but  bade  him  send  her 
son  away?  (Gen.  xxvii.  46  ;  xxviii.  1.)  When 
thou  hast  suffered  any  calamity,  think  on  what  is 
worse  than  it ;  and  thou  wilt  have  a  sufficient 
consolation ;  and  consider  with  thyself,  what 
if  he  had  died  in  battle?  what  if  in  fire? 
And  whatsoever  our  sufferings  may  be,  let  us 
think  upon  things  yet  more  fearful,  and  we 
shall  have  comfort  sufficient,  and  let  us  ever 
look  around  us  on  those  who  have  undergone 
more  terrible  things,  and  if  we  ourselves  have 
ever  suffered  heavier  calamities.  So  doth  Paul 
also  exhort  us ;  as  when  he  saith,  "  Ye  have  not 


2  Or  (Gr.)»  "  are  come  upon  me." 
*  He  passes  on  to  the  child  of  Bathsheba. 

4  r)Kna£tv.    a  Sam.  xii.  24  gives  the  impression  that  David  laid 
the  crime  to  his  own  charge,  and  regarded  her  as  wronged. 


300 


WORKS   OF   ST.    CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  IX. 


yet  resisted  unto  blood,  striving  against  sin" 
(Heb.  xii.  4)  :  and  again,  "There  hath  no 
temptation  taken  you  but  such  as  man  can 
bear."  (1  Cor.  x.  13.)  Be  then  our  sufferings 
what  they  may,  let  us  look  round  on  what  is 
worse  ;  (for  we  shall  find  such,)  and  thus  shall 


we  be  thankful.  And  above  all,  let  us  give 
thanks  for  all  things  continually;  for  so,  both 
these  things  will  be  eased,  and  we  shall  live  to 
the  glory  of  God,  and  obtain  the  promised  good 
things,  whereunto  may  all  we  attain,  through  the 
grace  and  love  toward  man,  &c. 


HOMILY    IX. 


Colossians  iii.  16,  17. 


44 


Let  the  word  of  Christ  dwell  in  you  richly  in  all  wis- 
dom; teaching  and  admonishing  one  another  with 
psalms  and  hymns  and  spiritual  songs,  singing  with 
grace  in  your  hearts  to  God.1  And  whatsoever  ye 
do  in  word  or  in  deed,  do  all  in  the  name  of  the  Lord 
Jesus,  giving  thanks  to  God  the  Father  through 
Him." 


Having  exhorted  them  to  be  thankful,  he 
shows  also  the  way,  that,  of  which  I  have  lately 
discoursed  to  you.  And  what  saith  he  ?  "  Let 
the  word  of  Christ  dwell  in  you  richly " ;  or 
rather  not  this  way  alone,  but  another  also.  For 
I  indeed  said  that  we  ought  to  reckon  up  those 
who  have  suffered  things  more  terrible,  and 
those  who  have  undergone  sufferings  more  griev- 
ous than  ours,  and  to  give  thanks  that  such  have 
not  fallen  to  our  lot ;  but  what  saith  he  ?  "  Let 
the  word  of  Christ  dwell  in  you  " ;  that  is,  the 
teaching,  the  doctrines,  the  exhortation,  wherein 
He  says,  that  the  present  life  is  nothing,  nor  yet 
its  good  things.  If  we  know  this,  we  shall  yield 
to  no  hardships  whatever.  (Matt.  vi.  25,  &c.) 
"Let  it  dwell  in  you,"  he  saith,  "richly,"  not 
simply  dwell,  but  with  great  abundance.  Hearken 
ye,  as  many  as  are  worldly,2  and  have  the  charge 
of  wife  and  children ;  how  to  you  too  he  com- 
mits especially  the  reading  of  the  Scriptures ; 
and  that  not  to  be  done  lightly,  nor  in  any  sort 
of  way,  but  with  much  earnestness.  For  as  the 
rich  in  money  can  bear  fine  and  damages,  so  he 
that  is  rich  in  the  doctrines  of  philosophy  will 
bear  not  poverty  only,  but  all  calamities  also 
easily,  yea,  more  easily  than  that  one.  For  as 
for  him,  by  discharging  the  fine,  the  man  who 
is  rich  must  needs  be  impoverished,  and  found 
wanting,3  and  if  he  should  often  suffer  in  that 
way,  will  no  longer  be  able  to  bear  it,  but  in  this 
case  it  is  not  so ;  for  we  do  not  even  expend 
our  wholesome  thoughts  when  it  is  necessary  for 
us  to  bear  aught  we  would  not  choose,  but  they 
abide  with  us  continually.     And  mark  the  wis- 


1  ["God"  is  ihe  correct  N.  T.  text  (as  in  Rev.  Ver.),  and  is 
here  given  by  several  MSS.  of  Chrys. — J.  A.  B.] 

2  Not  in  a  bad  sense. 

3  i\tyxf<rOai,  not  in  money  to  pay,  but  in  power  to  prevent  loss. 
Or  it  may  De,  "  must  be  in  process  of  being  found  wanting." 


dom  of  this  blessed  man.  He  said  not,  "  Let 
the  word  of  Christ "  be  in  you,  simply,  but  what  ? 
"  dwell  in  you,"  and  "  richly." 

"  In  all  wisdom,  teaching  and  admonishing  one 
another."  "In  all,"  says  he.  Virtue  he  calls 
wisdom,  and  lowliness  of  mind  is  wisdom,  and 
almsgiving,  and  other  such  like  things,  are  wis- 
dom ;  just  as  the  contraries  are  folly,  for  cruelty 
too  cometh  of  folly.  Whence  in  many  places 
it  calleth  the  whole  of  sin  folly.  "  The  fool," 
saith  one,  "  hath  said  in  his  heart,  There  is  no 
God"  (Ps.  xiv.  1)  ;  and  again,  "My  wounds 
stink  and  are  corrupt  from  the  face  of  my  fool- 
ishness." (Ps.  xxxviii.  5,  Sept.)  For  what  is 
more  foolish,  tell  me,  than  one  who  indeed 
wrappeth  himself  about  in  his  own  garments,  but 
regardeth  not  his  brethren  that  are  naked ;  who 
feedeth  dogs,  and  careth  not  that  the  image  of 
God  is  famishing ;  who  is  merely  persuaded  that 
human  things  are  nought,  and  yet  clings  to  them 
as  if  immortal.  As  then  nothing  is  more  foolish 
than  such  an  one,  so  is  nothing  wiser  than  one 
that  achieveth  virtue.  For  mark ;  how  wise  he 
is,  says  one.  He  imparteth  of  his  substance,  he 
is  pitiful,  he  is  loving  to  men,  he  hath  well  con- 
sidered that  he  beareth  a  common  nature  with 
them ;  he  hath  well  considered  the  use  of  wealth, 
that  it  is  worthy  of  no  estimation;  that  one 
ought  to  be  sparing  of  bodies  that  are  of  kin  to 
one,  rather  than  of  wealth.  He  that  is  a  de- 
spiser  of  glory  is  wholly  wise,  for  he  knoweth 
human  affairs ;  the  knowledge  of  things  divine 
and  human,  is  philosophy.  So  then  he  knoweth 
what  things  are  divine,  and  what  are  human,  and 
from  the  one  he  keeps  himself,  on  the  other  he 
bestoweth  his  pains.  And  he  knows  how  to  give 
thanks  also  to  God  in  all  things,  he  considers 
the  present  life  as  nothing ;  therefore  he  is  nei- 
ther delighted  with  prosperity,  nor  grieved  with 
the  opposite  condition. 

Tarry  not,  I  entreat,  for  another  to  teach  thee  ; 
thou  hast  the  oracles  of  God.  No  man  teacheth 
thee  as  they ;  for  he  indeed  oft  grudgeth  much 
for  vainglory's  sake  and  envy.  Hearken,  I  en- 
treat you,  all  ye  that  are  careful  for  this  life,  and 


Homily  IX.] 


HOMILIES   ON   COLOSSIANS. 


301 


procure  books  that  will  be  medicines  for  the 
soul.  If  ye  will  not  any  other,  yet  get  you  at 
least  the  New  Testament,  the  Apostolic  Epistles, 
the  Acts,  the  Gospels,  for  your  constant  teachers. 
If  grief  befall  thee,  dive  into  them  as  into  a 
chest  of  medicines ;  take  thence  comfort  of  thy 
trouble,  be  it  loss,  or  death,  or  bereavement  of 
relations ;  or  rather  dive  not  into  them  merely, 
but  take  them  wholly  to  thee  ;  keep  them  in  thy 
mind. 

This  is  the  cause  of  all  evils,  the  not  knowing 
the  Scriptures.    We  go  into  battle  without  arms, 
and  how  ought  we  to  come  off  safe  ?    Well  con- 
tented should  we  be  if  we  can  be  safe  with  them, 
Jet  alone  without  them.     Throw  not  the  whole 
upon  us  !    Sheep  ye  are,  still  not  without  reason, 
but  rational ;  Paul  committeth  much  to  you  also. 
They  that  are  under  instruction,  are  not  for  ever 
learning ;  for  then  they  are  not  taught.     If  thou 
art  for  ever  learning,  thou  wilt  never  learn.     Do 
not  so  come  as  meaning  to  be  always  learning ; 
(for  so  thou  wilt  never  know ;)  but  so  as  to  fin- 
ish learning,  and  to  teach  others.     In  the  arts, 
do  not  all  persons  continue  for  set  times,  in  the 
sciences,  and  in  a  word,  in  all  the  arts  ?    Thus 
we  all  fix  definitely  a  certain  known  time ;  but 
if  ye  are  ever  learning,  it  is  a  certain  proof  that 
ye  have  learned  nothing. 

This  reproach  God  spake  against  the  Jews. 
u  Borne  from  the  belly,  and  instructed  even  to 
old  age."  (Isa.  xlvi.  3,  4,  Sept.)  If  ye  had  not 
always  been  expecting  this,  all  things  would  not 
have  gone  backward  in  this  way.  Had  it  been 
so,  that  some  had  finished  learning,  and  others 
were  about  to  have  finished,  our  work  would 
have  been  forward ;  ye  would  both  have  given 
place  to  others,  and  would  have  helped  us  as 
well.  Tell  me,  were  some  to  go  to  a  gramma- 
rian and  continue  always  learning  their  letters, 
would  they  not  give  their  teacher  much  trouble  ? 
How  long  shall  I  have  to  discourse  to  you  con- 
cerning life  ?  In  the  Apostles'  times  it  was  not 
thus,  but  they  continually  leaped  from  place  to 
place,  appointing  those  who  first  learned  to  be 
the  teachers  of  any  others  that  were  under  in- 
struction. Thus  they  were  enabled  to  circle  the 
world,  through  not  being  bound  to  one  place. 
How  much  instruction,  think  ye,  do  your  breth- 
ren in  the  country  stand  in  need  of,  [they]  and 
their  teachers?  But  ye  hold  me  riveted  fast 
here.  For,  before  the  head  is  set  right,  it  is 
superfluous  to  proceed  to  the  rest  of  the  body. 
Ye  throw  everything  upon  us.  Ye  alone  ought 
to  learn  from  us,  and  your  wives  from  you,  your 
children  from  you;  but  ye  leave  all  to  us. 
Therefore  our  toil  is  excessive. 

"  Teaching,"  he  saith,  "  and  admonishing  one 
another  with  psalms  and  hymns  and  spiritual 
songs."  Mark  also  the  considerateness  of  Paul. 
Seeing  that  reading  is  toilsome,  and  its  irksome- 


ness  great,  he  led  them  not  to  histories,  but  to 
psalms,  that  thou  mightest  at  once  delight  thy 
soul  with  singing,  and  gently  beguile  thy  labors. 
"  Hymns,"  he  saith,  "  and  spiritual  songs."  But 
now  your  children  will  utter  songs  and  dances 
of  Satan,  like  cooks,  and  caterers,  and  musi- 
cians ;  no  one  knoweth  any  psalm,  but  it  seems 
a  thing  to  be  ashamed  of  even,  and  a  mockery, 
and  a  joke.  There  is  the  treasury  house  of  all 
these  evils.  For  whatsoever  soil  the  plant  stands 
in,  such  is  the  fruit  it  bears ;  if  in  a  sandy  and 
salty  soil,  of  like  nature  is  its  fruit ;  if  in  a  sweet 
and  rich  one,  it  is  again  similar.  So  the  matter 
of  instruction  is  a  sort  of  fountain.  Teach  him 
to  sing  those  psalms  which  are  so  full  of  the  love 
of  wisdom ;  as  at  once  concerning  chastity,  or 
rather,  before  all,  of  not  companying  with  the 
wicked,  immediately  with  the  very  beginning  of 
the  book;  (for  therefore  also  it  was  that  the 
prophet  began  on  this  wise,  "  Blessed  is  the  man 
that  hath  not  walked  in  the  counsel  of  the  un- 
godly "  ;  Ps.  i.  1,  and  again,  "  I  have  not  sat  in 
the  council  of  vanity  " ;  Ps.  xxvi.  4,  Sept.,  and 
again,  "  in  his  sight  a  wicked  doer  is  contemned, 
but  he  honoreth  those  that  fear  the  Lord,"  Ps. 
xv.  4,  Sept.,)  of  companying  with  the  good,  (and 
these  subjects  thou  wilt  find  there  in  abundance,") 
of  restraining  the  belly,  of  restraining  the  hand, 
of  refraining  from  excess,  of  not  overreaching ; 
that  money  is  nothing,  nor  glory,  and  other 
things  such  like. 

When  in  these  thou  hast  led  him  on  from 
childhood,  by  little  and  little  thou  wilt  lead  him 
forward  even  to  the  higher  things.  The  Psalms 
contain  all  things,  but  the  Hymns  again  have 
nothing  human.1  When  he  has  been  instructed 
out  of  the  Psalms,  he  will  then  know  hymns  also, 
as  a  diviner  thing.  For  the  Powers  above  chant 
hymns,  not  psalms.  For  "  a  hymn,"  saith  one, 
"is  not  comely  in  the  mouth  of  a  sinner" 
(Ecclus.  xv.  9)  ;  and  again,  "  Mine  eyes  shall 
be  upon  the  faithful  of  the  land,  that  they  sit 
together  with  me"  (Ps.  ci.  6,  7,  Sept.)  ;  and 
again,  "he  that  worketh  haughtiness  hath  not 
dwelt  in  the  midst  of  my  house  " ;  and  again, 
"  He  that  walketh  in  a  blameless  way,  he  min- 
istered unto  me."     (Ps.  ci.  6,  Sept.) 

So  that  ye  should  safely  guard  them  from  in- 
termixing themselves,  not  only  with  friends,  but 
even  with  servants.  For  the  harm  done  to  the 
free  is  incalculable,  when  we  place  over  them 
corrupt  slaves.  For  if  when  enjoying  all  the 
benefit  of  a  father's  affection  and  wisdom,  they 
can  with  difficulty  be  preserved  safe  throughout ; 
when  we  hand  them  over  to  the  unscrupulous- 

1  [This  distinction  is  unfounded.  It  is  likely  that  by  "  psalms  " 
the  Apostle  meant  especially  the  Psalms  of  the  Old  Test.,  and  by 
"  hymns  "  those  which  were  already  being  written  among  the  Chris* 
tians;  while  "  spiritual  songs"  might  include  both  the  others,  as  be- 
ing contrasted  with  secular  songs.  But  the  distinction  cannot  be 
confidently  made.    Compare  Ligntfoot  here.  — J.  A.  B.] 


302 


WORKS   OF    ST.    CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  IX. 


ness  of  servants,  they  use  them  like  enemies, 
thinking  that  they  will  prove  milder  masters  to 
them,  when  they  have  made  them  perfect  fools, 
and  weak,  and  worthy  of  no  respect. 

More  then  than  all  other  things  together,  let 
us  attend  seriously  to  this.  "I  have  loved," 
saith  he, "  those  that  love  thy  law."  (Ps.  cxix.  165, 
not  exact.)  This  man  then  let  us  too  emulate, 
and  such  let  us  love.  And  that  the  young  may  fur- 
ther be  taught  chastity,  let  them  hear  the  Proph- 
et, saying,  "My  loins  are  filled  with  illusions"1 
(Ps.  xxxviii.  7,  Sept.)  ;  and  again  let  them  hear 
him  saying,  "Thou  wilt  utterly  destroy  every  one 
that  goeth  a  whoring  from  Thee."  (Ps.  lxxiii. 
27,  Sept.)  And,  that  one  ought  to  restrain  the 
belly,  let  them  hear  again,  "And  slew,"  he  saith, 
"the  more  part  of  them8  while  the  meat  was 
yet  in  thejr  mouths."  (Ps.  Ixxviii.  30,  Sept.) 
And  that  they  ought  to  be  above  bribes,  "  If 
riches  become  abundant,  set  [not]  8  your  heart 
upon  them  "  (Ps.  lxii.  10)  ;  and  that  they  ought 
to  keep  glory  in  subjection,  "  Nor  shall  his  glory 
descend  together  after  him."  (Ps.  xlix.  17.) 
And  not  to  envy  the  wicked,  "  Be  not  envious 
against  them  that  work  unrighteousness."  (Ps. 
xxxvii.  1.)  And  to  count  power  as  nothing,  "  I 
saw  the  ungodly  in  exceeding  high  place,  and 
lifting  himself  up  as  the  cedars  of  Libanus,  and 
I  passed  by,  and  lo  !  he  was  not."  (Ps.  xxxvii. 
35.)  And  to  count  these  present  things  as  noth- 
ing, "  They  counted  the  people  happy,  that  are 
in  such  a  case ;  happy  are  the  people,  whose 
helper  is  the  Lord  their  God."  (Ps.  cxliv.  15, 
Sept.)  That  we  do  not  sin  without  notice,  but 
that  there  is  a  retribution,  "for,"  he  saith,  "Thou 
shalt  render  to  every  man  according  to  his 
works."  (Ps.  lxii.  12,  Sept.)  But  why  doth  he 
not  so  requite  them  day  by  day?  "God  is  a 
judge,"  he  says,  "righteous,  and  strong,  and 
longsuffering."  (Ps.  vii.  11.)  That  lowliness  of 
mind  is  good,  "  Lord,"  he  saith,  "  my  heart  is 
not  lifted  up  "  (Ps.  cxxxi.  1)  :  that  pride  is  evil, 
"Therefore,"  he  said,  "  pride  took  hold  on  them 
wholly  "  (Ps.  lxxiii.  6,  Sept.)  ;  and  again,  "  The 
Lord  resisteth  the  proud  " ;  and  again,  "  Their 
injustice  shall  come  out  as  of  fatness."  That 
almsgiving  is  good,  "  He  hath  dispersed,  he  hath 
given  to  the  needy,  his  righteousness  endureth 
for  ever."  (Prov.  iii.  34.)  And  that  to  pity  is 
praiseworthy,  "  He  is  a  good  man  that  pitieth, 
and  lendeth."  (Ps.  lxxiii.  7,  Sept.)  And  thou 
wilt  find  there  many  more  doctrines  than  these, 
full  of  true  philosophy ;  such  as,  that  one  ought 
not  to  speak  evil,  "  Him  that  privily  slandereth 

1  ituraiytiaTuiv.  Evil  spirits  being  supposed  to  "  make  sport  of" 
the  soul  by  means  of  the  body. 

*  wio<rtv,  Savile,  marg.  and  x  MS.  and  so  Sept.  and  E.  V.  "fat- 
test," Edd.  n\ii<xriv.    [So  Chrys.  on  that  Psalm.  —  Field. — J.  A.  B.] 

*  The  MSS.  omit  the  negative,  which  would  easily  be  lost  in  the 
preceding  word.  One  might  take  it,  *'  Beware  of  them."  [Field  in- 
serts the  negative  without  remark.— J.  A.  B.] 


his  neighbor,  him  did  I  chase  from  me."     (Ps. 
cxii.  9.) 

What  is  the  hymn  of  those  above?  The 
Faithful  know.  What  say  the  cherubim  above  ? 
What  say  the  Angels  ?  "  Glory  to  God  in  the 
highest."  (Ps.  cxii.  5.)  Therefore  after  the 
psalmody  come  the  hymns,  as  a  thing  of  more 
perfection.  "  With  psalms,"  he  saith,  "  with 
hymns,  with  spiritual .  songs,  with  grace  singing 
in  your  hearts  to  God."  (Ps.  ci.  5,  Sept.)  He 
means  either  this,  that  God  because  of  grace 
hath  given  us  these  things  ;  or,  with  the  songs  in 
grace ;  or,  admonishing  and  teaching  one  an- 
other in  grace ;  or,  that  they  had  these  gifts  in 
grace ;  or,  it  is  an  epexegesis4  and  he  means, 
from  the  grace  of  the  Spirit.  "  Singing  in  your 
hearts  to  God."  Not  simply  with  the  mouth,  he 
means,  but  with  needfulness.  For  this  is  to 
"  sing  to  God,"  but  that  to  the  air,  for  the  voice 
is  scattered  without  result.  .Not  for  display,  he 
means.  And  even  if  thou  be  in  the  market- 
place, thou  canst  collect  thyself,  and  sing  unto 
God,  no  one  hearing  thee.  For  Moses  also  in 
this  way  prayed,  and  was  heard,  for  He  saith, 
"Why  criest  thou  unto  Me?"  (Ex.  xiv.  15)  al- 
beit he  said  nothing,  but  cried  in  thought  — 
wherefore  also  God  alone  heard  him  —  with  a 
contrite  heart.  For  it  is  not  forbidden  one  even 
when  walking  to  pray  in  his  heart,  and  to  dwell 
above. 

Ver.  17.  "  And  whatsoever  ye  do,"  he  saith, 
"  in  word  or  in  deed,  do  all  in  the  name  of  the 
Lord  Jesus,  giving  thanks  to  God  the  Father 
through  Him." 

For  if  we  thus  do,  there  will  be  nothing  pol- 
luted, nothing  unclean,  wherever  Christ  is  called 
on.  If  thou  eat,  if  thou  drink,  if  thou  marry, 
if  thou  travel,  do  all  in  the  Name  of  God,  that 
is,  calling  Him  to  aid  thee :  in  everything  first 
praying  to  Him,  so  take  hold  of  thy  business. 
Wouldest  thou  speak  somewhat?  Set  this  in 
front.  For  this  cause  we  also  place  in  front  of 
our  e'pistles  the  Name  of  the  Lord.  Whereso- 
ever the  Name  of  God  is,  all  is  auspicious.  For 
if  the  names  of  Consuls  make  writings  sure, 
much  more  doth  the  Name  of  Christ.  Or  he 
means  this;  after  God  say  ye  and  do  every- 
thing, do  not  introduce  the  Angels  besides. 
Dost  thou  eat?  Give  thanks  to  God  both  be- 
fore and  afterwards.  Dost  thou  sleep?  Give 
thanks  to  God  both  before  and  afterwards. 
Launchest  thou  into  the  forum  ?  Do  the  same 
—  nothing  worldly,  nothing  of  this  life.  Do  all 
in  the  Name  of  the  Lord,  and  all  shall  be  pros- 
pered to  thee.  Whereonsoever  the  Name  is 
placed,  there  all  things  are  auspicious.  If  it 
casts  out  devils,  if  it  drives  away  diseases,  much 
more  does  it  render  business  easy. 

And  what  is  to  "  do  in  word  or  in  deed  "  ? 

*  i.e.  an  additional  explanation,  viz.  of  "  singing  in  your  hearts." 


Homily  X.] 


HOMILIES   ON   COLOSSIANS. 


303 


Either  requesting  or  performing  anything  what- 
ever.    Hear  how  in  the  Name  of  God  Abraham 
sent  his  servant;  David  in  the  Name  of  God 
slew  Goliath.      Marvelous   is    His   Name   and 
great      Again,   Jacob   sending   his   sons   saith, 
M  My  God  give   you  favor  in  the  sight  of  the 
man."     (Gen.  xliii.   14.)      For  he  that  doeth 
this  hath  for  his  ally,  God,  without  whom  he 
durst  do  nothing.     As  honored  then  by  being 
called  upon,  He  will  in  turn  honor  by  making 
their    business    easy.      Invoke    the   Son,   give 
thanks  to  the  Father.      For  when  the  Son  "is 
invoked,  the  Father  is  invoked,  and  when  He 
is  thanked,  the  Son  has  been  thanked. 

These  things  let  us  learn,  not  as  far  as  words 
only,  but  to  fulfill  them  also  by  works.  Nothing 
is  equal  to  this  Name,  marvelous  is  it  every- 
where. "Thy  Name,"  he  saith,  "is  ointment 
poured  forth."  (Cant.  i.  3.)  He  that  hath 
uttered  it  is  straightway  rilled  with  fragrance. 
"  No  man,"  it  is  said,  "  can  call  Jesus  Lord,  but 
by  the  Holy  Ghost."  (1  Cor.  xii.  3.)  So  great 
things  doth  this  Name  work.  If  thou  have  said, 
In1  the  Name  of  Father,  and  Son,  and  Holy 
Ghost,  with  faith,  thou  hast  accomplished  every- 
thing. See,  how  great  things  thou  hast  done  ! 
Thou  hast  created  a  man,  and  wrought  all  the 
rest  (that  cometh)  of  Baptism  !     So,  when  used 


in  commanding  diseases,  terrible  is  The  Name. 
Therefore  the  devil  introduced  those8  of  the 
Angels,  envying  us  the  honor.  Such  incanta- 
tions are  for  the  demons.  Even  if  it  be  Angel, 
even  if  it  be  Archangel,  even  if  it  be  Cherubim, 
allow  it  not ;  for  neither  will  these  Powers  accept 
such  addresses,  but  will  even  toss  them  away 
from  them,  when  they  have  beheld  their  Master 
dishonored.  "  I  have  honored  thee,"  He  saith, 
"  and  have  said,  Call  upon  Me " ;  and  dost 
thou  dishonor  Him?  If  thou  chant  this  incan- 
tation with  faith,  thou  wilt  drive  away  both  dis- 
eases and  demons,4  and  even  if  thou  have  failed 
to  drive  away  the  disease,  this  is  not  from  lack 
of  power,  but  because  it  is  expedient  it  snould 
be  so.  "  According  to  Thy  greatness,"  he  saith, 
"  so  also  is  Thy  praise."  (Ps.  xlviii.  10.)  By 
this  Name  hath  the  world  been  converted,  the 
tyranny  dissolved,  the  devil  trampled  on,  the 
heavens  opened.  We  have  been  regenerated 
by  this  Name.  This  if  we  have,  we  beam  forth  ; 
This  maketh  both  martyrs  and  confessors ;  This 
let  us  hold  fast  as  a  great  gift,  that  we  may  live 
in  glory,  and  be  well-pleasing  to  God,  and  be 
counted  worthy  of  the  good  things  promised  to 
them  that  love  Him,  through  the  grace  and  lov- 
ingkindness,  &c. 


HOMILY  X 

Colossians  Hi.  18-25. 


"  Wives,  be  in  subjection  to  your  husbands,  as  is  fitting 
in  the  Lord.  Husbands,  love  your  wives,  and  be  not 
bitter  against  them.  Children,  obey  your  parents  in 
all  things,  for  this  is  well-pleasing  in8  the  Lord. 
Fathers,  provoke  not  your  children,  that  they  be  not 
discouraged.  Servants,  obey  in  all  things  them  that 
are  your  masters  according  to  the  flesh;  not  with 
eyeservice,  as  menpleasers,  but  in  singleness  of  heart, 
fearing  the  Lord :  whatsoever  ye  do,  work  heartily, 
as  unto  the  Lord,  and  not  unto  men;  knowing  that 
from  the  Lord  ye  shall  receive  the  recompense  of 
the  inheritance :  ye  serve  the  Lord  Christ.  For  he 
that  doeth  wrong  shall  receive  again  for  the  wrong  ; 
that  he  hath  done :  and  there  is  no  respect  of  per- 
sons with  God.  (Chap.  iv.  1.)  Masters,  render 
unto  your  servants  that  which  is  just  and  equal; 
knowing  that  ye  also  have  a  Master  in  heaven." 

Why  does  he  not  give  these  commands  every- 
where, and  in  all  the  Epistles,  but  only  here,  and 
in  that  to  the  Ephesians,  and  that  to  Timothy, 
and  that  to  Titus  ?  Because  probably  there  were 
dissensions   in  these  cities ;    or  probably  they 

1  [He  uses  ir  fy  Aropart,  which  in  this  connection  amounts  to 
substantially  the  same  as  the  Evangelist's  «i«  to  bvona  (Matt. 
xxviii.  19).    Compare  Acta  viii.  x6  with  x.  48.— J.  A.  B.] 

*  R.t.  and  E.  V>  unto." 


were  correct  in  other  respects,  so  that  it  was 
expedient  they  should  hear  about  these  things. 
Rather,  however,  what  he  saith  to  these,  he  saith 
to  all.  Now  in  these  things  also  this  Epistle 
bears  great  resemblance  to  that  to  the  Ephesians, 
either5  because  it  was  not  fitting  to  write  about 
these  things  to  men  now6  at  peace,  who  needed 

8  Or,  "  the  matters  of  the  Angels  "  (toL  rStv  ayy4\<*v). 

*  Gretser  de  S.  Cruce,  1.  iv.  c.  3,  quotes  the  Emperor  Leo  as 
speaking  of  curing  a  demoniac  "by  the  Sign  of  the  Cross,  and  the 
invocation  of  the  Holy  and  life-giving  Trinity."  This  agrees  with 
what  he  has  said  before,  Horn.  viii.  p.  298,  on  the  use  of  the  Holy 
Sign.  G.  also  quotes  Tertullian  de  Bapt.  6,  who  alludes  to  this  form 
of  using  it.  "The  Faith  sealed  (obsignate)  in  the  Father  and  the 
Son  and  the  Holy  Ghost."  There  were,  however,  other  forms,  as 
"  In  the  Name  of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ."  "  Deus  in  adjutorium 
meum  intende,"  &c.  Gretser  also  refers  to  St.  Chrys.  Catech.  ii. 
fin.,  where  he  bids  every  one  on  leaving  his  house  cross  himself, 
saying,  "  I  renounce  thee,  Satan,  and  thy  pomp,  and  thy  angels, 
and  i  place  myself  with  thee,  O  Christ."  St.  Cyr.  Cat.  iv.  10  also 
connects  the  Invocation  of  His  Name  with  the  Sign.  St.  Cyprian, 
Test.  ii.  21,  quotes  Rev.  xiv.  x,  so  as  to  imply  this  connection. 

6  [In  these  apparently  hasty  notes,  perhaps  composed  by  dicta- 
tion, or  more  probably  taken  down  in  shorthand,  we  are  not  sur- 
prised to  find  a  frequent  lack  of  clear  connection.  Here,  as  often 
elsewhere,  the  altered  text  followed  in  most  editions  has  inserted 
clauses  to  bring  out  the  supposed  meaning.  — J.  A.  B.] 

•  He  seems  to  class  the  Romans,  Hebrews,  Corinthians,  and 
Galatians  together,  as  needing  doctrinal  instruction  before  these  par- 
ticulars, and  to  consider  the  Thessalonians  and  Philippians  as  need* 
ing  them  less  from  their  state  of  suffering. 


3<H 


WORKS   OF   ST.  CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  X. 


to  be  instructed  in  high  doctrines  as  yet  lacking 
to  them,  or  because  that  for  persons  who  had 
been  comforted  under  trials,  it  were  superfluous 
to  hear  on  these  subjects.  So  that  I  conjecture, 
that  in  this  place  the  Church  was  now  well- 
grounded,  and  that  these  things  are  said  as  in 
finishing. 

Ver.  1 8.  "Wives,  be  in  subjection  to  your 
husbands,  as  is  fitting  in  the  Lord." 

That  is,  be  subject  for  God's  sake,  because 
this  adorneth  you,  he  saith,  not  them.  For  I 
mean  not  that  subjection  which  is  due  to  a  mas- 
ter, nor  yet  that  alone  which  is  of  nature,  but 
that  for  God's  sake. 

Ver.  19.  "  Husbands,  love  your  wives,  and  be 
not  bitter  against  them." 

See  how  again  he  has  exhorted  to  reciprocity. 
As  in  the  other  case  he  enjoineth  fear  and  love, 
so  also  doth  he  here.  For  it  is  possible  for  one 
who  loves  even,  to  be  bitter.  What  he  saith 
then  is  this.  Fight  not;  for  nothing  is  more 
bitter  than  this  fighting,  when  it  takes  place  on 
the  part  of  the  husband  toward  the  wife.  For 
the  fightings  which  happen  between  beloved 
persons,  these  are  bitter ;  and  he  shows  that  it 
ariseth  from  great  bitterness,  when,  saith  he,  any 
one  is  at  variance  with  his  own  member.  To 
love  therefore  is  the  husband's  part,  to  yield 
pertains  to  the  other  side.  If  then  each  one 
contributes  his  own  part,  all  stands  firm.  From 
being  loved,  the  wife  too  becomes  loving ;  and 
from  her  being  submissive,  the  husband  becomes 
yielding.  And  see  how  in  nature  also  it  hath 
been  so  ordered,  that  the  one  should  love,  the 
other  obey.  For  when  the  party  governing  loves 
the  governed,  then  everything  stands  fast.  Love 
from  the  governed  is  not  so  requisite,  as  from 
the  governing  towards  the  governed ;  for  from 
the  other  obedience  is  due.  For  that  the  woman 
hath  beauty,  and  the  man  desire,  shows  nothing 
else  than  that  for  the  sake  of  love  it  hath  been 
made  so.  Do  not  therefore,  because  thy  wife  is 
subject  to  thee,  act  the  despot ;  nor  because  thy 
husband  loveth  thee,  be  thou  puffed  up.  Let 
neither  the  husband's  love  elate  the  wife,  nor  the 
wife's  subjection  puff  up  the  husband.  For  this 
cause  hath  He  subjected  her  to  thee,  that  she 
may  be  loved  the  more.  For  this  cause  He  hath 
made  thee  to  be  loved,  O  wife,  that  thou  mayest 
easily  bear  thy  subjection.  Fear  not  in  being  a 
subject ;  for  subjection  to  one  that  loveth  thee 
hath  no  hardship.  Fear  not  in  loving,  for  thou 
hast  her  yielding.  In  no  other  way  then  could 
a  bond  have  been.  Thou  hast  then  thine  au- 
thority of  necessity,  proceeding  from  nature ; 
maintain  also  the  bond  that  proceedeth  from 
love,  for  this  alloweth  the  weaker  to  be  endur- 
able.1 

1  apeirri)!'.    He  seems  to  mean, "  to  be  in  an  endurable  position." 
[Downes  suggested,  and  Field  inclines  to  approve,  that  the  reading 


Ver.  20.  "  Children,  obey  your  parents  in  all 
things,  for  this  is  well-pleasing  in  the  Lord." 

Again  he  has  put  that,  "  in  the  Lord,"  at  once 
laying  down  the  laws  of  obedience,  and  shaming 
them,  and  casting  them  down.  For  this,  saith 
he,  is  well-pleasing  to  the  Lord.  See  how  he 
would  have  us  do  all  not  from  nature  only,  but, 
prior  to  this,  from  what  is  pleasing  to  God,  that 
we  may  also  have  reward. 

Ver.  21.  "  Fathers,  provoke  not  your  children, 
that  they  be  not  discouraged." 

Lo !  again  here  also  is  subjection  and  love. 
And  he  said  not,  "  Love  your  children,"  for  it 
had  been  superfluous,  seeing  that  nature  itself 
constraineth  to  this ;  but  what  needed  correc- 
tion he  corrected ;  that  the  love  should  in  this 
case  also  be  the  more  vehement,  because  that 
the  obedience  is  greater.  For  it  nowhere  lays 
down  as  an  exemplification  the  relation  of  hus- 
band and  wife;  but  what?  hear  the  prophet 
saying,  "  Like  as  a  father  pitieth  his  children,  so 
the  Lord  pitied  them  that  fear  Him  "  (Ps.  ciii. 
13,  Sept.)  And  again  Christ  saith,  "What  man 
is  there  of  you,  whom  if  his  son  ask  bread,  will 
he  give  him  a  stone  ?  or  if  he  ask  a  fish,  will  he 
give  him  a  serpent?"  (Matt.  vii.  9.) 

"  Fathers,  provoke  not  your  children,  that  they 
be  not  discouraged." 

He  hath  set  down  what  he  knew  had  the  great- 
est power  to  seize  upon  them ;  and  whilst  com- 
manding them  he  has  spoken  more  like  a  friend ; 
and  nowhere  does  he  mention  God,  for  he 
would  overcome  parents,  and  bow  their  tender 
affections.  That  is, "  Make  them  not  more  con- 
tentious, there  are  occasions  when  you  ought 
even  to  give  way." 

Next  he  comes  to  the  third  kind  of  authority. 

There  is  here  also  a  certain  love,  but  that  no 
more  proceeding  from  nature,  as  above,  but  from 
habit,  and  from  the  authority  itself,  and  the 
works  done.  Seeing  then  that  in  this  case  the 
sphere  of  love  is  narrowed,  whilst  that  of  obe- 
dience is  amplified,  he  dwelleth  upon  this,  wish- 
ing to  give  to  these  from  their  obedience,  what 
the  first  have  from  nature.  So  that' what  he  dis- 
courseth  with  the  servants  alone  *  is  not  for  their 
masters'  sakes,  but  for  their  own  also,  that  they 
may  make  themselves  the  objects  of  tender  af- 
fection to  their  masters.  But  he  sets  not  this 
forth  openly;  for  so  he  would  doubtless  have 
made  them  supine. 

Ver.  22.  "Servants,"  he  saith,  "obey  in  all 
things  your  masters  according  to  the  flesh." 

And  see  how  always  he  sets  down  the  names, 
"  wives,  children,  servants,"  being  at  once  a  just 

should  be  averov,  "  unrestrained,"  which  in  another  passage  is  con- 
fused in  a  MS.  with  avtitrov. —  J.  A.  8.] 

*  Movotc .  One  would  expect  fiovov,  as  he  speaks  to  the  masters 
afterwards.  But  he  may  either  mean  that  they  were  chiefly  ad- 
dressed, or  that  this  is  the  object  even  of  what  is  addressed  to  them 
separately. 


Homily  X.] 


HOMILIES   ON   COLOSSIANS. 


305 


claim  upon  their  obedience.  But  that  none 
might  be  pained,  he  added,  "  to  your  masters 
according  to  the  flesh."  Thy  better  part,  the 
soul,  is  free,  he  saith ;  thy  service  is  for  a  sea- 
son. It  therefore  do  thou  subject,  that  thy  ser- 
vice be  no  more  of  constraint.  "  Not  with  eye- 
service,  as  men-pleasers."  Make,  he  saith,  thy 
service  which  is  by  the  law,  to  be  from  the  fear 
of  Christ.  For  if  when  thy  master  seeth  thee 
not,  thou  doest  thy  duty  and  what  is  for  his 
honor,  it  is  manifest  that  thou  doest  it  because 
of  the  sleepless  Eye.  "  Not  with  eye-service," 
he  saith,  "as  men-pleasers  "  ;  thus  implying,  "it 
is  you  who  will  have  to  sustain  the  damage." 
For  hear  the  prophet  saying,  "  God  hath  scat- 
tered the  bones  of  the  men-pleasers."  (Ps.  liii. 
6,  Sept.)  See  then  how  he  spares  them,  and 
brings  them  to  order.  "  But  in  singleness  of 
heart,"  he  saith,  "  fearing  God." *  For  that  is 
not  singleness,  but  hypocrisy,  to  hold  one  thing, 
and  act  another ;  to  appear  one  when  the  mas- 
ter is  present,  another  when  he  is  absent.  There- 
fore he  said  not  simply, "  in  singleness  of  heart," 
but,  "fearing  God."  For  this  is  to  fear  God, 
when,  though  none  be  seeing,  we  do  not  aught 
that  is  evil ;  but  if  we  do,  we  fear  not  God,  but 
men.   Seest  thou  how  he  bringeth  them  to  order? 

Ver.  23.  "Whatsoever  ye  do,  work  heartily, 
as  unto  the  Lord,  and  not  unto  men." 

He  desires  to  have  them  freed  not  only  from 
hypocrisy,  but  also  from  slothfulness.  He  hath 
made  them  instead  of  slaves  free,  when  they 
need  not  the  superintendence  of  their  master ; 
for. the  expression  "heartily"  means  this,  "with 
good  will,"  not  with  a  slavish  necessity,  but  with 
freedom,  and  of  choice.  And  what  is  the  re- 
ward? 

Ver.  24.  "Knowing,"  he  saith,  "that  from 
the  Lord  ye  shall  receive  the  recompense  of 
your'  inheritance  :  for  ye  serve  the  Lord  Christ." 

For  from  Him  also  it  is  evident  that  ye  shall 
receive  the  reward.  And  that  ye  serve  the  Lord 
is  plain  from  this. 

Ver.  25.  "For  he  that  doeth  wrong,"  he 
saith,  "  shall  receive  again  for  the  wrong  that  he 
hath  done." 

Here  he  confirmeth  his  former  statements. 
For  that  his  words  may  not  appear  to  be  those 
of  flattery,  "he  shall  receive,"  he  saith,  "the 
wrong  he  hath  done,"  that  is,  he  shall  suffer 
punishment  also,  "for  there  is  no  respect  of 
persons."8  For  what  if  thou  art  a  servant?  it  is 
no  shame  to  thee.  And  truly  he  might  have 
said  this  to  the  masters,  as  he  did  in  the  Epistle 

1  [The  correct  text,  as  in  Rev.  Ver.,  is  "fearing  the  Lord." 
Chrys.  very  often  has  an  erroneous  type  of  N.  T.  text,  which  spread 
from  Constantinople,  and  became  the  so-called  Textus  Receptus.  — 
J.  A.  B.) 

*  [Some  documents  for  N.  T.  also  give  "  your,"  but  the  correct 
N.  T.  test  has  simply  "  the,"  and  omits  "  for.*—  T.  A.  B.I 

*  [Some  documents  for  Chrys.,  and  some  for  N.  T.,  add  "  with 
Ood*-J.A.B.] 


to  the  Ephesians.  (Eph.  vi.  9.)  But  here  he 
seems  to  me  to  be  alluding  to  the  Grecian  mas- 
ters. For,  what  if  he  is  a  Greek  and  thou  a 
Christian?  Not  the  persons  but  the  actions  are 
examined,  so  that  even  in  this  case  thou  oughtest 
to  serve  with  good  will,  and  heartily. 

Chap.  iv.  1.  "Masters,  render  unte  your  ser- 
vants that  which  is  just  and  equal." 

What  is  "just"?  What  is  "equal"?  To 
place  them  in  plenty  of  everything,  and  not 
allow  them  to  stand  in  need  of  others,  but  to 
recompense  them  for  their  labors.  For,  .because 
I  have  said  that  they  have  their  reward  from 
God,  do  not  thou  therefore  deprive  them  of 
it.  And  in  another  place  he  saith,  "forbearing 
threatening"  (Eph.  vi.  9),  wishing  to  make 
them  more  gentle  ;  for  those  were  perfect  men ; 
that  is,  "with  what  measure  ye  mete,  it  shall 
be  measured  unto  you."  (Matt.  vii.  2.)  And 
the  words,  "  there  is  no  respect  of  persons," 
are  spoken  with  a  view  to  these,4  but  they  are 
assigned  to  the  others,  in  order  that  these  may 
receive  them.  For  when  we  have  said  to  one 
person  what  is  applicable  to  another,  we  have 
not  corrected  him  so  much,  as  the  one  who  is  in 
fault.  "Ye  also,"  along  with  them,  he  saith. 
He  has  here  made  the  service  common,  for  he 
saith,  "  knowing  that  ye  also  have  a  Master  in 
heaven."  » 

Ver.  2.  "  Continue  in  prayer,  watching  therein 
with  thanksgiving." 

For,  since  continuing  in  prayers  frequently 
makes  persons  listless,  therefore  he  saith,  "  watch- 
ing," that  is,  sober,  not  wandering.  For  the 
devil  knoweth,  he  knoweth,  how  great  a  good 
prayer  is;  therefore  he  presseth  heavily.  And 
Paul  also  knoweth  how  careless 5  many  are  when 
they  pray,  wherefore  he  saith,  "  continue  " 6  in 
prayer,  as  of  somewhat  laborious,  "  watching 
therein  with  thanksgiving."  For  let  this,  he 
saith,  be  your  work,  to  give  thanks  in  your  prayers 
both  for  the  seen  and  the  unseen,  and  for  His 
benefits  to  the  willing  and  unwilling,  and  for  the 
kingdom,  and  for  hell,  and  for  tribulation,  and 
for  refreshment.  For  thus  is  the  custom  of  the 
Saints  to  pray,  and  to  give  thanks  for  the  com- 
mon benefits  of  all. 

I  know  a  certain  holy  man  who  prayeth  thus. 
He  used  to  say  nothing  before  these  words,  but 
thus,  "  We  give  Thee  thanks  for  all  Thy  benefits 
bestowed  upon  us  the  unworthy,  from  the  first 
day  until  the  present,  for  what  we  know,  and 
what  we  know  not,  for  the  seen,  for  the  unseen, 
for  those  in  deed,  those  in  word,  those  with  our 
wills,  those  against  our  wills,  for  all  that  have 
been  bestowed  upon  the  unworthy,  even  us  ;  for 


*  The  masters. 

6  atcrftibKri,  generally  used  of  giving  up  caring  for  anything  in 
despair.  But  the  name  "  acedia  "  amongst  the  seven  deadly  sins  is 
of  this  origin. 

6  irpocjcaprcpcirc,  "  persevere." 


306 


WORKS   OF   ST.    CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  X. 


tribulations,  for  refreshments,  for  hell,  for  pun- 
ishment, for  the  kingdom  of  heaven.  We  be- 
seech Thee  to  keep  our  soul  holy,  having  a  pure 
conscience ;  an  end  worthy  of  thy  lovingkind- 
ness.  Thou  that  lovedst  us  so  as  to  give  Thy 
Only- Begotten  for  us,  grant  us  to  become  worthy 
of  Thy  love  ;  give  us  wisdom  in  Thy  word,  and 
in  Thy  fear.  Only- Begotten  Christ,  inspire  the 
strength  that  is  from  Thee.  Thou  that  gavest 
The  Only- Begotten  for  us,  and  hast  sent  Thy 
Holy  Spirit  for  the  remission  of  our  sins,  if  in 
aught  we  have  wilfully  or  unwillingly  transgressed, 
pardon,  and  impute  it  not.  Remember  all  that 
call  upon  Thy  Name  in  truth ;  remember  all 
that  wish  us  well,  or  the  contrary,  for  we  are  all 
men."  Then  having  added  the  Prayer1  of  the 
Faithful,  he  there  ended ;  having  made  that 
prayer,  as  a  certain  crowning  part,  and  a  binding 
together  for  all.  For  many  benefits  doth  God 
bestow  upon  us  even  against  our  wills;  many 
also,  yea  more,  without  our  knowledge  even. 
For  when  we  pray  for  one  thing,  and  He  doeth 
to  us  the  reverse,  it  is  plain  that  He  doeth  us 
good  even  when  we  know  it  not. 

Ver.  3.  "  Withal  praying  for  us  also."  See  his 
lowlymindedness ;  he  sets  himself  after  them. 

"  That  God  may  open  to  us  a  door  for  the 
word,  to  speak  the  mystery  of  Christ."  He 
means  an  entrance,  and  boldness  in  speaking. 
Wonderful !  The  great  athlete  said  not  "  that  I 
may  be  freed  from  my  bonds,"  but  being  in 
bonds  he  exhorted  others ;  and  exhorted  them 
for  a  great  object,  that  himself  might  get  bold- 
ness in  speaking.  Both  the  two  are  great,  both 
the  quality  of  the  person,  and  of  the  thing. 
Wonderful !  how  great  is  the  dignity !  "  The 
mystery,"  he  saith,  "  of  Christ."  He  shows  that 
nothing  was  more  dearly  desired  by  him  than 
this,  to  speak.  "  For  which  I  am  also  in  bonds  ; 
that  I  may  make  it  manifest,  as  I  ought  to  speak." 
(Ver.  4.)  He  means  with  much  boldness  of 
speech,  and  withholding  nothing.  His  bonds 
display,  not  obscure  him.  With  much  boldness, 
he  means.  Tell  me,  art  thou  in  bonds,  and  dost 
thou  exhort  others?  Yea,  my  bonds  give  me 
the  greater  boldness ;  but  I  pray  for  God's  fur- 
therance, for  I  have  heard  the  voice  of  Christ 
saying,  "  When  they  deliver  you  up,  be  not  anx- 
ious how  or  what  ye  shall  speak."  (Matt.  x.  19.) 
And  see,  how  he  has  expressed  himself  in  meta- 
phor, "  that  God  may  open  to  us  a  door  for  the 
word  "  ;  (see,  how  unassuming  he  is ;  even  in  his 
bonds,  how  he  expresses  himself;)  that  is,  that 
He  would  soften  their  hearts.  Still  he  said  not 
so ;  but,  "  that  He  would  give  us  boldness  "  ;  out 
of  lowlymindedness  he  thus  spoke,  and  that 
which  he  had,  he  asks  to  receive. 

He  shows  in  this  Epistle,  why  Christ  came  not 
in  those  times,  in  that  he   calleth  the  fortner 

1  The  Lord's  Prayer. 


things  "  shadow,  but  the  body,"  saith  he,  "  is  of 
Christ."  So  that  it  was  necessary  they  should  be 
formed  to  habits  under  the  shadow.  At  the 
same  time  also  he  exhibits  the  greatest  proof  of 
the  love  he  bears  to  them ;  "  in  order  that  ye," 
he  saith,  "  may  hear,  for  that  reason,  '  I  am  in 
bonds.* "  Again  he  sets  before  us  those  bonds  of 
his ;  which  I  so  greatly  love,  which  rouse  up  my 
heart,  and  always  draw  me  into  longing  to  see 
Paul  bound,  and  in  his  bonds  writing,  and  preach- 
ing, and  baptizing,  and  catechizing.  In  his 
bonds  he  was  referred  to  on  behalf  of  the 
Churches  everywhere ;  in  his  bonds  he  builded 
up  incalculably.  Then  was  he  rather  at  large. 
For  hear  him  saying,  "So  that  most  of  the 
brethren  being  confident  through  my  bonds  are 
more  abundantly  bold  to  speak  the  word  without 
fear."  (Phil.  i.  14.)  And  again  he  makes  the 
same  avowal  of  himself,  saying,  "  For  when  I  am 
weak,  then  am  I  strong."  (2  Cor.  xii.  10.) 
Wherefore  he  said  also,  "  But  the  word  of  God 
is  not  bound."  (2  Tim.  ii.  9.)  He  was  bound 
with  malefactors,  with  prisoners,  with  murderers ; 
he,  the  teacher  of  the  world,  he  that  had  as- 
cended into  the  third  heaven,  that  had  heard  the 
unspeakable  words,  was  bound.  (2  Cor.  xii.  4.) 
But  then  was  his  course  the  swifter.  He  that 
was  bound,  was  now  loosed ;  he  that  was  un- 
bound, was  bound.  For  he  indeed  was  doing 
what  he  would ;  whilst  the  other  prevented  him 
not,  nor  accomplished  his  own  purpose. 

What  art  thou  about,  O  senseless  one?  Think- 
est  thou  he  is  a  fleshly  runner?  Doth  he  strive 
in  our  race-course?  His  course  of  life  is  in 
heaven ;  him  that  runneth  in  heaven,  things  on 
earth  cannot  bind  nor  hold.  Seest  thou  not  this 
sun?  Enclose  his  beams  with  fetters  !  stay  him 
from  his  course  !  Thou  canst  not.  Then  neither 
canst  thou  Paul !  Yea,  much  less  this  one  than 
that,  for  this  enjoyeth  more  of  Providence  than 
that,  seeing  he  beareth  to  us  light,  not  such  as 
that  is,  but  the  true. 

Where  now  are  they  who  are  unwilling  to  suffer 
aught  for  Christ?  But  why  do  I  say  "  suffer," 
•seeing  that  they  are  unwilling  even  to  give  up 
their  wealth  ?  In  time  past  Paul  also  used  to  bind, 
and  cast  into  prison ;  but  since  he  is  become 
Christ's  servant,  he  glorieth  no  more  of  doing, 
but  of  suffering.  And  this,  moreover,  is  marvel- 
ous in  the  Preaching,  when  it  is  thus  raised  up 
and  increased  by  the  sufferers  themselves,  and 
not  by  the  persecutors.  Where  hath  any  seen 
such  contests  as  this?  He  that  suffereth  ill, 
conquers ;  he  that  doeth  ill,  is  worsted.  Brighter 
is  this  man  than  the  other.  Through  bonds  the 
Preaching  entered.  "  I  am  not  ashamed  "  (Rom. 
i.  16),  yea,  I  glory  even,  he  saith,  in  preach- 
ing The  Crucified.  For  consider,  I  pray :  the 
whole  world  left  those  who  were  at  large,  and 
went  over  to  those  that  are  bound ;  turning  away 


Homily  X.] 


HOMILIES    ON   COLOSSIANS. 


307 


from  the  imprisoners,  it  honoreth  those  laden 
with  chains ;  hating  the  crucifiers,  it  worships 
the  Crucified. 

Not  the  only  marvel  is  it  that  the  preachers 
were  fishermen,  that  they  were  ignorant;  but 
that  there  were  also  other  hindrances,  hin- 
drances too  by  nature ;  still  the  increase  was 
all  the  more  abundant.  Not  only  was  their 
ignorance  no  hindrance  ;  but  even  it  itself  caused 
the  Preaching  to  be  manifested.  For  hear  Luke 
saying,  "And  perceiving  that  they  were  unlearned 
and  ignorant  men,  they  marveled."  (Acts  iv.  13.) 
Not  only  were  bonds  no  hindrance,  but  even  of 
itself  this  made  them  more  confident.  Not  so 
bold  were  the  disciples  when  Paul  was  at  large, 
as  when  he  was  bound.  For  he  saith,  they  "  are 
more  abundantly  bold  to  speak  the  word  "  of 
God  "  without  fear."  (Phil.  i.  14.)  Where  are 
they  that  will  gainsay  the  divinity  of  the  Preach- 
ing? Was  not  their  ignorance  enough  to  pro- 
cure them  to  be  condemned?  Would  it  not 
then  in  this  case  too,  affright  them?  For  ye 
know  that  by  these  two  passions  the  many  are 
possessed,  vainglory  and  cowardice.  Suppose 
their  ignorance  suffered  them  not  to  feel  ashamed, 
still  the  dangers  must  have  put  them  in  fear. 

But,  saith  one,  they  wrought  miracles.  Ye  do 
believe  then  that  they  wrought  miracles.  But 
did  they  not  work  miracles  ?  This  is  a  greater 
miracle  than  to  work  them,  if  men  were  drawn 
to  them  without  miracles.  Socrates  too  amongst 
the  Greeks  was  put  in  bonds.  What  then  ?  Did 
not  his  disciples  straightway  flee  to  Megara? 
Assuredly,  why  not?  They  admitted1  his  argu- 
ments about  immortality.'  But  see  here.  Paul 
was  put  in  bonds,  and  his  disciples  waxed  the 
more  confident,  with  reason,  for  they  saw  that 
the  Preaching  was  not  hindered.  For,  canst 
thou  put  the  tongue  in  bonds?  hereby  chiefly 
it  runneth.  For  as,  except  thou  have  bound 
the  feet  of  a  runner,  thou  hast  not  prevented 
him  from  running ;  so,  except  thou  have  bound 
the  tongue  of  an  evangelist,  thou  hast  not  hin- 
dered him  from  running.  And  as  the  former, 
if  thou  have  bound  his  loins,  runneth  on  the 
rather,  and  is  supported,  so  too  the  latter 
preacheth  the  rather,  and  with  greater  bold- 
ness. 

A  prisoner  is  in  fear,  when  there  is  nothing 
beyond  bonds :  but  one  that  despiseth  death, 
how  should  he  be  bound  ?  They  did  the  same 
as  if  they  had  put  in  bonds  the  shadow  of  Paul, 
and  had  gagged  its  mouth.  For  it  was  a  fighting 
with  shadows ;  for  he  was  both  more  tenderly 
regretted  by  his  friends,  and  more  reverenced 
by  his  enemies,  as  bearing  the  prize  for  courage 
in  his  bonds.  And  a  crown  binds  the  head; 
but  it  disgraces  it  not,  yea  rather,  it  makes  it 
brilliant.     Against  their  wills  they  crowned  him 

1  [Ironical. —J,,  A.  B,] 


with  his  chain.  For,  tell  me,  was  it  possible  he 
could  fear  iron,  who  braved  the  adamantine  gates 
of  death  ?  Come  we,  beloved,  to  emulate  these 
bonds.  As  many  of  you  women  as  deck  your- 
selves with  trinkets  of  gold,  long  ye  for  the  bonds 
of  Paul.  Not  so  glitters  the  collar  round  your 
necks,  as  the  grace  of  these  iron  bonds  gleamed 
about  his  soul !  If  any  longs  for  those,  let  him 
hate  these.  For  what  communion  hath  softness 
with  courage ;  tricking  out  of  the  body  with  phi- 
losophy? Those  bonds  Angels  reverence,  these 
they  even  make  a  mock  of;  those  bonds  are 
wont  to  draw  up  from  earth  to  heaven ;  these 
bonds  draw  down  to  earth  from  heaven.  For 
in  truth  these  are  bonds,  not  those ;  those  are 
ornament,  these  are  bonds ;  these,  along  with 
the  body,  afflict  the  soul  also ;  those,  along  with 
the  body,  adorn  as  well  the  soul. 

Would  est  thou  be  convinced  that  those  are 
ornament?  Tell  me  which  would  more  have 
won  the  notice  of  the  spectators  ?  thou  or  Paul  ? 
And  why  do  I  say,  "thou  "?  the  queen2  herself 
who  is  all  bedecked  with  gold  would  not  have 
attracted  the  spectators  so  much ;  but  if  it  had 
chanced  that  both  Paul  in  his  bonds  and  the 
queen  had  entered  the  Church  at  the  same  time, 
all  would  have  removed  their  eyes  from  her  to 
him ;  and  with  good  reason.  For  to  see  a  man 
of  a  nature  greater  than  human,  and  having 
nought  of  man,  but  an  angel  upon  earth,  is 
more  admirable  than  to  see  a  woman  decked 
with  finery.  For  such  indeed  one  may  see 
both  in  theaters,  and  in  pageants,  and  at  baths, 
and  many  places ;  but  whoso  seeth  a  man  with 
bonds  upon  him,  and  deeming  himself  to  have 
the  greatest  of  ornaments,  and  not  giving  way 
under  his  bonds,  doth  not  behold  a  spectacle  of 
earth,  but  one  worthy  of  the  heavens.  The 
soul  that  is  in  that  way  attired  looks  about,  — 
who  hath  seen  ?  who  not  seen  ?  —  is  filled  with 
pride,  is  possessed  with  anxious  thoughts,  is 
bound  with  countless  other  passions :  but  he 
that  hath  these  bonds  on  him,  is  without  pride : 
his  soul  exulteth,  is  freed  from  every  anxious 
care,  is  joyous,  hath  its  gaze  on  heaven,  is  clad 
with  wings.  If  any  one  were  to  give  me  the 
choice  of  seeing  Paul  either  stooping  out  of 
heaven,  and  uttering  his  voice,  or  out  of  the 
prison,  I  would  choose  the  prison.  For  they 
of  heaven  visit  him  when  he  is  in  the  prison. 
The  bonds  of  Paul  were  the  bond  of  the  Preach- 
ing, that  chain  of  his  was  its  foundation.  Long 
we  for  those  bonds  ! 

And  how,  some  one  says,  may  this  be?  If 
we  break  up  and  dash  in  pieces  these.  No 
good  results  to  us  from  these  bonds,  but  even 
harm.  These  will  show  us  as  prisoners  There  ; 
but  the  bonds  of  Paul  will  loose  those  bonds ; 
she  that  is  bound  with  these  here,  with  those 

*  [Meaning  the  Empress,  as  king  meant  the  Emperor. —J.  A.  B.] 


3o8 


WORKS   OF   ST.    CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  X. 


deathless  bonds  shall  she  also  be  bound  There, 
both  hands  and  feet ;  she  that  has  been  bound 
with  Paul's,  shall  have  them  in  that  day  as  it 
were  an  ornament  about  her.  Free  both  thy- 
self from  thy  bonds,  and  the  poor  man  from  his 
hunger.  Why  rivetest  thou  fast  the  chains  of 
thy  sins?  Some  one  saith,  How?  When  thou 
wearest  gold  whilst  another  is  perishing,  when 
thou,  to  get  thee  vainglory,  takest  so  much  gold, 
whilst  another  hast  not  even  what  to  eat,  hast 
thou  not  wedged  fast  thy  sins?  Put  Christ 
about  thee,  and  not  gold ;  where  Mammon  is, 
there  Christ  is  not,  where  Christ  is,  there  Mam- 
mon is  not.  Wouldest  not  thou  put  on  the 
King  of  all  Himself?  If  one  had  offered  thee 
the  purple,  and  the  diadem,  wouldest  thou  not 
have  taken  them  before  all  the  gold  in  the 
world?  I  give  thee  not  the  regal  ornaments, 
but  I  offer  thee  to  put  on  the  King  Himself. 
And  how  can  one  put  Christ  on,  doth  any  say  ? 
Hear  Paul  saying,  "As  many  of  you  as  were 
baptized  into  Christ,  did  put  on  Christ."  (Gal. 
iii.  27.)  Hear  the  Apostolical  precept,  "Make 
not  provision  for  the  flesh  to  fulfill  the  lusts 
thereof."  (Rom.  xiii.  14.)  Thus  doth  one  put 
on  Christ,  if  one  provide  not  for  the  flesh  unto 
its  lusts.  If  thou  have  put  on  Christ,  even  the 
demons  will  fear  thee ;  but  if  gold,  even  men 
will  laugh  thee  to  scorn :  if  thou  have  put  on 
Christ,  men  also  will  reverence  thee. 

Wouldest  thou  appear  fair  and  comely?  Be 
content  with  the  Creator's  fashioning.  Why 
dost  thou  overlay  these  bits  of  gold,  as  if  about 
to  put  to  rights  God's  creation  ?  Wouldest  thou 
appear  comely?  Clothe  thee  in  alms;  clothe 
thee  in  benevolence;  clothe  thee  in  modesty, 
humbleness.  These  are  all  more  precious  than 
gold ;  these  make  even  the  beautiful  yet  more 
comely ;  these  make  even  the  ill  formed  to  be 
well  formed.  For  when  any  one  looks  upon  a 
countenance  with  good  will,  he  gives  his  judg- 
ment from  love;  but  an  evil  woman,  even 
though  she  be  beautiful,  none  can  call  beauti- 
ful ;  for  the  mind  being  confounded  pronounc- 
eth  not  its  sentence  aright. 

That  Egyptian  woman  of  old  was  adorned ; 
Joseph  too  was  adorned ;  which  of  them  was  the 
more  beautiful  ?  I  say  not  when  she  was  in  the 
palace,  and  he  in  the  prison.1  He  was  naked, 
but  clothed  in  the  garments  of  chastity;  she 
was  clothed,  but  more  unseemly  than  if  she  had 
been  naked ;  for  she  had  not  modesty.  When 
thou  hast  excessively  adorned  thee,  O  woman, 
then  thou  art  become  more  unseemly  than  a 
naked  one ;  for  thou  hast  stripped  thee  of  thy 
fair  adorning.  Eve  also  was  naked ;  but  when 
she  had  clothed  herself,  then  was  she  more 

1  Downes  would  remove  the  negative;  but  the  meaning  is  "  not 
only  when,"  &c,  but  "  even  when  he  was  exposed  by  the  loss  of  his 
garment." 


unseemly,  for  when  she  was  naked  indeed,  she 
was  adorned  with  the  glory  of  God ;  but  when 
she  had  clothed  herself  with  the  garment  of  sin, 
then  was  she  unseemly.  And  thou,  when  array- 
ing thyself  in  the  garment  of  studied  finery,  dost 
then  appear  more  unseemly.  For  that  costli- 
ness availeth  not  to  make  any  appear  beautiful, 
but  that  it  is  possible  even  for  one  dressed  out 
to  be  even  more  unseemly  than  if  naked,  tell 
me  now ;  if  thou  hadst  ever  put  on  the  dresses 
of  a  piper  or  a  flute-player,  would  it  not  have 
been  unseemliness?  And  yet  those  dresses  are 
of  gold  ;  but  for  this  very  reason  it  were  unseem- 
liness, because  they  are  of  gold.  For  the  costli- 
ness suits  well  with  people  on  the  stage,  trage- 
dians, players,  mimes,  dancers,  fighters  with  wild 
beasts ;  but  to  a  woman  that  is  a  believer,  there 
are  given  other  robes  from  God,  the  Only-Be- 
gotten Son  of  God  Himself.  "  For,"  he  saith, 
"  as  many  as  were  baptized  into  Christ,  did  put 
on  Christ."  (Gal.  iii.  27.)  Tell  me,  if  one  had 
given  thee  kingly  apparel,  and  thou  hadst  taken 
a  beggar's2  dress,  and  put  this  on  above  it, 
wouldest  thou  not,  besides  the  unseemliness, 
have  also  been  punished  for  it?  Thou  hast  put 
on  the  Lord  of  Heaven,  and  of  the  Angels,  and 
art  thou  still  busied  about  earth  ? 

I  have  spoken  thus,  because  love  of  ornament 
is  of  itself  a  great  evil,  even  were  no  other  gen- 
dered by  it,  and  it  were  possible  to  hold  it  with- 
out peril,  (for  it  inciteth  to  vainglory  and  to 
pride,)  but  now  many  other  evils  are  gendered 
by  finery,  evil  suspicions,  unseasonable  expenses, 
evil  speakings,  occasions  of  rapacity.  For  why 
dost  thou  adorn  thyself?  Tell  me.  Is  it  that 
thou  mayest  please  thy  husband?  Then  do  it 
at  home.  But  here  the  reverse  is  the  case.  For 
if  thou  wouldest  please  thine  own  husband,  please 
not  others ;  but  if  thou  please  others,  thou  wilt 
not  be  able  to  please  thine  own.  So  that  thou 
shouldest  put  away  all  thine  ornaments,  when 
thou  goest  to  the  forum  or  proceedest  to  the 
church.  Besides,  please  not  thy  husband  by 
those  means  which  harlots  use,  but  by  those 
rather  which  wives  that  are  free  employ.  For 
wherein,  tell  me,  doth  a  wife  differ  from  a  har- 
lot? In  that  the  one  regardeth  one  thing  only, 
namely,  that  by  the  beauty  of  her  person  she 
may  attract  to  herself  him  whom  she  loves; 
whilst  the  other  both  ruleth  the  house,  and  shar- 
eth  in  the  children,  and  in  all  other  things. 

Hast  thou  a  little  daughter?  look  to  it  lest 
she  inherit  the  mischief,  for  they  are  wont  to 
form  their  manners  according  to  their  nurture, 
and  to  imitate  their  mothers'  behavior.  Be  a 
pattern  to  thy  daughter  of  modesty,  deck  thy- 


*  [The  Greek  has  a  word,  Awrtfc,  not  elsewhere  found  in  this 
sense,  but  explained  (Field's  Annotations)  by  a  similar  word,  A«»rd{, 
employed  and  interpreted  in  another  passage  by  Chrys.  The  cor* 
rectors  changed  Awrov  into  the  familiar  tikmros,  a  Helot.— J.  A.  B.] 


Homily  XI.] 


HOMILIES   ON   COLOSSIANS. 


309 


self  with  that  adorning,  and  see  that  thou  despise 
the  other ;  for  that  is  in  truth  an  ornament,  the 
other  a  disfigurement.  Enough  has  been  said. 
Now  God  that  made  the  world,  and  hath  given 
to  us  the  ornament  *  of  the  soul,  adorn  us,  and 


clothe  us  with  His  own  glory,  that  all  shining 
brightly  in  good  works,  and  living  unto  His 
glory,  we  may  send  up  glory  to  the  Father,  and 
to  the  Son,  and  to  the  Holy  Spirit,  now  and 
always,  &c. 


HOMILY   XI. 


COLOSSIANS    IV.   5,   6. 


"Walk  m  wisdom  toward  them  that  are  without,  redeem- 
ing the  time.  Let  your  speech  be  always  with  grace, 
seasoned  with  salt,  that  ye  may  know  how  ye  ought 
to  answer  each  one/' 

What  Christ  said  to  His  disciples,  that  doth 
Paul  also  now  advise.  And  what  did  Christ 
say?  "Behold,  I  send  you  forth  as  sheep  in 
the  midst  of  wolves :  be  ye  therefore  wise  as 
serpents,  and  harmless  as  doves."  (Matt.  x. 
16.)  That  is,  be  upon  your  guard,  giving  them 
no  handle  against  you.  For  therefore  it  is 
added,  "towards  them  that  are  without,"  in 
order  that  we  may  know  that  against  our  own 
members  we  have  no  need  of  so  much  caution 
as  against  those  without.  For  where  brethren 
are,  there  are  both  many  allowances  and  kind- 
nesses. There  is  indeed  need  of  caution  even 
here ;  but  much  more  without,  for  it  is  not  the 
same  to  be  amongst  enemies  and  foes,  and 
amongst  friends. 

Then  because  he  had  alarmed  them,  see  how 
again  he  encourages  them ;  "  Redeeming,"  he 
saith,  "the  time":  that  is,  the  present  time  is 
short.  Now  this  he  said,  not  wishing  them  to 
be  crafty,  nor  hypocrites,  (for  this  is  not  a  part 
of  wisdom,  but  of  senselessness,)  but  what  ?  In 
matters  wherein  they  harm  you  not,  he  means, 
give  them  no  handle ;  as  he  says  also,  when  writ- 
ing to  the  Romans,  "  Render  to  all  their  dues : 
tribute  to  whom  tribute  is  due,  custom  to  whom 
custom,  honor  to  whom  honor."  (Rom.  xiii.  7.) 
On  account  of  the  Preaching  alone  have  thou 
*ar,  he  saith,  let  this  war  have  none  other  origin. 
For  though  they  were  to  become  our  foes  for 
other  causes  besides,  yet  neither  shall  we  have  a 
reward,  and  they  will  become  worse,  and  will 
seem  to  have  just  complaints  against  us.  For 
instance,  if  we  pay  not  the  tribute,  if  we  render 
not  the  honors  that  are  due,  if  we  be  not  lowly. 
Seest  thou  not  Paul,  how  submissive  he  is,  where 
he  was  not  likely  to  harm  the  Preaching.  For 
near  him  saying  to  Agrippa,  "  I  think  myself 
happy,  because  I  shall  answer  for  myself  this 

l,fThe  word  «09>uk  denotes  order  and  ornament,  and  so  the 
as  being  orderly  and  beautiful.  —  J.  A.  B.] 


•odd; 


day  before  thee,  especially  because  I  know  thee 
to  be  expert  in  all  customs  and  questions  which 
are  among  the  Jews."  (Acts  xxvi.  2,  3.)  But 
had  he  thought  it  his  duty  to  insult  the  ruler, 
he  would  have  spoiled  everything.  And  hear 
too  those  of  blessed  Peter's  company,  how  gently 
they  answer  the  Jews,  saying,  "  we  must  obey 
God  rather  than  men."  (Acts  v.  29.)  And 
yet  men  who  had  renounced  their  own  lives, 
might  both  have  insulted,  and  have  done  any- 
thing whatever;  but  for  this  object  they  had 
renounced  their  lives,  not  that  they  might  win 
vainglory,  (for  that  way  had  been  vainglorious,) 
but  that  they  might  preach  and  speak  all  things 
with  boldness.  That  other  course  marks  want 
of  moderation. 

"  Let  your  speech  be  always  with  grace,  sea- 
soned with  salt "  ;  that  is,  that  this  graciousness 
may  not  lapse  into  indifferentism.  For  it  is 
possible  to  be  simply  agreeable,  it  is  possible 
also  to  be  so  with  due  seemliness.  "  That  ye 
may  know  how  ye  ought  to  answer  each  one." 
So  that  one  ought  not  to  discourse  alike  to  all, 
Greeks,  I  mean,  and  Brethren.  By  no  means, 
for  this  were  the  very  extreme  of  senseless- 
ness. 

Ver.  7.  "  All  my  affairs  shall  Tychicus  make 
known  unto  you,  the  beloved  brother  and  faith- 
ful minister  and  fellow-servant  in  the  Lord." 

Admirable  !  how  great  is  the  wisdom  of  Paul ! 
Observe,  he  doth  not  put  everything  into  his 
Epistles,  but  only  things  necessary  and  urgent. 
In  the  first  place,  being  desirous  of  not  drawing 
them  out  to  a  length ;  and  secondly,  to  make 
his  messenger  more  respected,  by  his  having 
also  somewhat  to  relate ;  thirdly,  showing  his 
own  affection  towards  him ;  for  he  would  not 
else  have  entrusted  these  communications  to 
him.  Then,  there  were  things  which  ought 
not  to  be  declared  in  writing.  "The  beloved 
brother,"  he  saith.  If  beloved,  he  knew  all, 
and  he  concealed  nothing  from  him.  "And 
faithful  minister  and  fellow-servant  in  the  Lord." 
If  "  faithful,"  he  will  speak  no  falsehood  ;  if 
"  a  fellow-servant,"  he  hath  shared  his  trials,  so 


3io 


WORKS   OF   ST.   CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  XI. 


that  he  has  brought  together  from  all  sides  the 
grounds  of  trustworthiness. 

Ver.  8.  "  Whom  I  have  sent  unto  you  for  this 
very  purpose." 

Here  he  shows  his  great  love,  seeing  that  for 
this  purpose  he  sent  him,  and  this  was  the  cause 
of  his  journey;  and  so  when  writing  to  the 
Thessalonians,  he  said,  "Wherefore  when  we 
could  no  longer  forbear,  we  thought  it  good  to 
be  left  behind  at  Athens  alone,  and  sent  Timo- 
thy our  brother."  (i  Thess.  iii.  i,  2.)  And  to 
the  Ephesians  he  sends  this  very  same  person, 
and  for  the  very  same  cause,  "  That  he  might 
know  your  estate,  and  comfort  your  hearts." 
(Eph.  vi.  21,  22.)  See  what  he  saith,  not 
44  that  ye  might  know  my  estate,"  but  "  that 
I  might  know  yours."  So  in  no  place  doth  he 
mention  what  is  his  own.  He  shows  that  they 
were  in  trials  too,  by  the  expression,  "  comfort 
your  hearts." 

Ver.  9.  "With  Onesimus,  the  beloved  and 
faithful  brother,  who  is  one  of  you.  They  shall 
make  known  unto  you  all  things  that  are  done 
here." 

Onesimus  is  the  one  about  whom,  writing  to 
Philemon,  he  said,  "  Whom  I  would  fain  have 
kept  with  me,  that  in  thy  behalf  he  might  min- 
ister unto  me  in  the  bonds  of  the  Gospel :  but 
without  thy  mind  I  would  do  nothing."  (Philem. 
13,  14.)  And  he  adds  too  the  praise  of  their 
city,  that  they  might  not  only  not l  be  ashamed, 
but  even  pride  themselves  on  him.  "  Who  is 
one  of  you,"  he  saith.  "  They  shall  make  known 
unto  you  all  things  that  are  done  here." 

Ver.  10.  "Aristarchus  my  fellow-prisoner 
saluteth  you." 

Nothing  can  surpass  this  praise.  This  is  he 
that  was  brought  up  from  Jerusalem  with  him. 
This  man  hath  said  a  greater  thing  than  the 
prophets;  for  they  call  themselves  "strangers 
and  foreigners,"  but  this  one  calleth  himself 
even  a  prisoner.  Just  like  a  prisoner  of  war 
he  was  dragged  up  and  down,8  and  lay  at  every 
one's  will  to  suffer  evil  of  them,  yea  rather  worse 
even  than  prisoners.  For  those  indeed  their 
enemies,  after  taking  them,  treat  with  much 
attention,  having  a  care  for  them  as  their  own 
property :  but  Paul,  as  though  an  enemy  and  a 
foe,  all  men  dragged  up  and  down,  beating  him, 
scourging,  insulting,  and  maligning.  This  was 
a  consolation  to  those  also  (to  whom  he  wrote), 
when  their  master  even  is  in  such  circumstances. 

"  And  Mark,  the  cousin  of  Barnabas  "  ;  even 
this  man  he  hath  praised  still  from  his  relation- 
ship, for  Barnabas  was  a  great  man  ;  "  touching 
whom  ye  received  commandments ;  if  he  come 
unto  you,  receive  him."     Why?  would  they  not 

1  Sav.  adds  ovk,  but  without  necessity. 

*  ffytro  teat  c^cpcro,  which  is  most  properly  said  of  property 
plundered  in  war. 


have  received  him?  Yes,  but  he  means,  with 
much  attention ;  and  this  shows  the  man  to  be 
great.  Whence  they  received  these  command- 
ments, he  does  not  say. 

Ver.  11.  "And  Jesus  which  is  called  Justus." 

This  man  was  probably  a  Corinthian.  Next, 
he  bestows  a  common  praise  on  all,  having  al- 
ready spoken  that  of  each  one  in  particular ; 
"  who  are  of  the  circumcision :  these  only  are 
my  fellow-workers  unto  the  kingdom  of  God, 
men  that  have  been  a  comfort  unto  me." 
After  having  said,  "  fellow-prisoner  "  ;  in  order 
that  he  may  not  therewith  depress  the  soul  of 
his  hearers,  see  how  by  this  expression  he 
rouseth  them  up.  "  Fellow-workers,"  he  saith, 
"unto  the  kingdom  of  God."  So  that  being 
partakers  of  the  trials,  they  become  partakers  of 
the  kingdom.  "Who  have  been  a  comfort  to 
me."  He  shows  them  to  be  great  persons,  see- 
ing that  to  Paul  they  have  been  a  comfort. 

But 8  let  us  see  the  wisdom  of  Paul.  "  Walk 
in  wisdom  "  he  saith,  "  towards  them  that  are 
without,  redeeming  the  time."  (Ver.  5.)  That  is, 
the  time  is  not  yours,  but  theirs.  Do  not  then 
wish  to  have  your  own  way,4  but  redeem  the 
time.  And  he  said  not  simply,  "Buy,"  but 
"  redeem,"  making  it  yours  after  another  man- 
ner. For  it  were  the  part  of  excessive  madness, 
to  invent  occasions  of  war  and  enmity.  For 
over  and  above  the  undergoing  of  superfluous 
and  profitless  dangers,  there  is  this  additional 
harm,  that  the  Greeks  will  not  come  over  to  us. 
For  when  thou  art  amongst  the  brethren,  reason 
is  thou  shouldest  be  bold;  but  when  without, 
thou  oughtest  not  to  be  so. 

Seest  thou  how  everywhere  he  speaks  of  those 
without,  the  Greeks?  Wherefore  also  when 
writing  to  Timothy,  he  said,  "  Moreover,  he  must 
have  good  testimony  from  them  that  are  with- 
out." (1  Tim.  iii.  7.)  And  again,  "For  what 
have  I  to  do  with  judging  them  that  are  with- 
out." (1  Cor.  v.  12.)  "Walk  in  wisdom,"  he 
saith,  "  toward  them  that  are  without."  For 
"without,"  they  are,  even  though  they  live  in 
the  same  world  with  us,  seeing  they  are  without 
the  kingdom,  and  the  paternal  mansion.  And 
he  comforts  them  withal,  by  calling  the  others 
"  without,"  as  he  said  above,  "  Your  life  is  hid 
with  Christ  in  God."     (Col.  iii.  3.) 

Then,  he  saith,  seek  ye  glory,  then  honors, 
then  all  those  other  things,  but  not  so  now,  but 
give  them  up  to  those  without.  Next,  lest  thou 
think  that  he  is  speaking  of  money,  he   adds, 


*  The  transition  here  is  so  sudden,  that  one  suspects  the  text; 
but  it  may  be  only  that  he  is  catching  himself  up,  to  make  a  longer 
comment  on  the  last  few  verses.  [There  may  be  two  sets  of  rough 
notes,  prepared  for  different  occasions,  with  the  same  general  dis- 
cussion used  in  both  cases,  and  the  two  combined  by  an  editor.  But 
the  suggestion  of  the  Oxford  tr.  is  supported  by  a  similar  practice  in 
several  of  the  Homilies  on  Acts.  Com  p.  below,  on  Horn.  xii. — 
J.  A.  B.] 

4  avdtvTtiv,  i.e.  in  the  world,  as  men  of  the  world. 


Homily  XI.] 


HOMILIES   ON   COLOSSIANS. 


3" 


"  Let  your  speech  be  always  with  grace,  seasoned 
with  salt,  that  ye  may  know  how  ye  ought  to 
answer  each  one."    That  it  may  not  be  full  of 
hypocrisy,  for  this  is  not "  grace,"  nor  "  a  season- 
ing with  salt."     For  instance,  if  it  be  needful  to 
pay  court  to  any  one  without  incurring  danger, 
refuse  not  [to  do  so]  ;  if  the  occasion  require 
that  thou  discourse  civilly,  think  not  the  doing 
so  flattery,  do  everything  that  pertaineth   to 
honor,  so  that  piety  be  not  injured.    Seest  thou 
not  how  Daniel  payeth   court   to   an   impious 
man?    Seest  thou  not  the  three  children,  how 
wisely  they  bore  themselves,  showing  both  cour- 
age, and  boldness  in  speaking,  and  yet  nothing 
rash  nor  galling,  for  so  it  had  not  been  boldness, 
but  vainglory.     "  That  ye  may  know,"  he  saith, 
How  ye  ought  to  answer  every  man."     For  the 
ruler  ought  to  be  answered  in  one  way,  the  ruled 
in  another,  the  rich  in  one  way,  the  poor  in  an- 
other.   Wherefore  ?    Because  the  souls  of  those 
who  are  rich,  and  in  authority,  are  weaker,  more 
inflammable,  more  fluctuating,  so  that  towards 
them,  one  should  use  condescension ;  those  of 
the  poor,  and  the  ruled,  firmer  and  more  intelli- 
gent, so  that  to  these  one  should  use  greater 
boldness  of  speech ;  looking  to  one  thing,  their 
edification.     Not  that  because  one  is  rich,  an- 
other poor,  the  former  is  to  be  honored  more, 
the  latter  less,  but  because  of  his  weakness,  let 
the  former  be   supported,  the  latter  not  so : 
for  instance,  when  there  is  no  cause  for  it,  do 
not  call  the  Greek  "  polluted,"  nor  be  insulting ; 
but  if  thou  be  asked  concerning  his  doctrine, 
answer  that  it  is  polluted,  and   impious;  but 
when  none  asketh  thee,  nor  forceth  thee  to  speak, 
it  becomes  thee  not  causelessly  to  challenge  to 
thee  his  enmity.     For  what  need  is  there  to  pre- 
pare for   thyself  gratuitous  hostilities?    Again, 
if  thou  art  instructing  any  one ;  speak  on  the 
subject  at  present  before  thee,  otherwise  be  si- 
lent1    If  the  speech  be  "seasoned  with  salt," 
should  it  fall  into  a  soul  that  is  of  loose  texture, 
it  will  brace  up  its  slackness ;  into  one  that  is 
harsh,  it  will  smooth  its  ruggedness.     Let  it  be 
gracious,  and  so  neither  hard,  nor  yet  weak,  but 
let  it  have  both  sternness  and  pleasantness  there- 
with.    For  if  one   be   immoderately   stern,  he 
doth  more  harm  than  good ;  and  if  he  be  im- 
moderately  complaisant,  he   giveth  more   pain 
than  pleasure,  so  that  everywhere  there  ought  to 
be  moderation-     Be  not  downcast,  and  sour  vis- 
aged,  for  this  is  offensive  ;  nor  yet  be  wholly  re- 
laxed, for  this  is  open  to  contempt  and  treading 
under  foot ;  but,  like  the  bee,  culling  the  virtue 
of  each,  of  the  one  its  cheerfulness,  of  the  other 
its  gravity,  keep  clear  of  the   fault.     For   if  a 
physician  dealeth  not  with  all  bodies  alike,  much 
more  ought  not  a  teacher.     And  yet  better  will 
the  body  bear  unsuitable   medicines,  than  the 

1  «rti  0-ty*t  Le.  since  (if  it  be  not  so)  be  silent. 


soul  language ;  for  instance,  a  Greek  cometh  to 
thee,  and  becomes  thy  friend ;  discourse  not  at 
all  with  him  on  this  subject,  until  he  have  be- 
come a  close  friend,  and  after  he  hath  become 
so,  do  it  gradually. 

See,  when  Paul  also  had  come  to  Athens,  how 
he  discoursed  with  them.  He  said  not, "  O  pol- 
luted, and  all-polluted";  but  what?  "Ye  men 
of  Athens,  in  all  things  I  perceive  that  ye  are 
somewhat  superstitious."2  (Acts  xvii.  22.) 
Again,  when  to  insult  was  needful,  he  refused 
not ;  but  with  great  vehemency  he  said  to  Ely- 
mas,  "  O  full  of  all  guile  and  all  villainy,  son  of 
the  devil,  enemy  of  all  righteousness."  For  as 
to  have  insulted  those  had  been  senselessness, 
so  not  to  have  insulted  this  one  had  been  soft- 
ness. Again,  art  thou  brought  unto  a  ruler  on 
a  matter  of  business,  see  that  thou  render  him 
the  honors  that  are  his  due. 

Ver.  9.  "  They  shall  make  known  unto  you," 
he  saith,  "  all  things  that  are  done  here."  Why 
didst  thou  not  come  with  them,  says  one  ?  But 
what  is,  "  They  shall  make  known  unto  you  all 
things  "  ?  My  bonds,  that  is,  and  all  the  other 
things  that  detain  me.  I  then,  who  pray  to  see 
them,  who  also  send  others,  should  not  myself 
have  remained  behind,  had  not  some  great  ne- 
cessity detained  me.  And  yet  this  is  not  the 
language  of  accusation  —  yes,  of  vehement  ac- 
cusation. For  the  assuring  them  that  he  had 
both  fallen  into  trials,  and  was  bearing  them 
nobly,  is  the  part  of  one  who  was  confirming  the 
fact,  and  lifting  up  again  their  souls. 

Ver.  9.  "  With  Onesimus,"  he  saith,  "  the  be- 
loved, and  faithful  brother." 

Paul  calleth  a  slave,  brother :  with  reason ; 
seeing  that  he  styleth  himself  the  servant  of  the 
faithful.  (2  Cor.  iv.  5.)  Bring  we  down  all  of 
us  our  pride,  tread  we  under  foot  our  boastful- 
ness.  Paul  nameth  himself  a  slave,  he  that  is 
worth  the  world,  and  ten  thousands  of  heavens ; 
and  dost  thou  entertain  high  thoughts?  He 
that  seizeth  all  things  for  spoil  as  he  will,  he 
that  hath  the  first  place  in  the  kingdom  of 
heaven,  he  that  was  crowned,  he  that  ascended 
into  the  third  heaven,  calleth  servants,  "  breth- 
ren," and  "fellow-servants."  Where  is  your 
madness  ?  where  is  your  arrogance  ? 

So  trustworthy  was  Onesimus  become,  as  to 
be  entrusted  even  with  such  things  as  these. 

Ver.  10.  "And  Mark,"  he  saith,  "the  cousin 
of  Barnabas,  touching  whom  ye  received  com- 
mandments, receive  him."  Perhaps  they  had 
received  commandments  from  Barnabas. 

*  teuTiBainovtaripov*.  The  word  does  not  convey  quite  the  re- 
proach which  the  E.  V.  does.  It  may  be  rendered,  "  I  see  that  ye 
are  rather  given  to  the  fear  of  divinities."  FOr  more  probably, "  very 
religious,"  as  in  American  App.  to  Rev.  Ver.  The  adjective  may 
have  either  the  good  or  the  bad  sense;  and  the  comparative  may 
mean  more  than  a  little,  "  somewhat,"  or  more  than  common, 
"quite,"  "  remarkably,"  or  more  than  enough,  ••  too."  Only  the 
connection  can*in  such  cases  decide,  and  that  is  not  here  conclusive. 
—  J.  A.  B.] 


312 


WORKS   OF   ST.    CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  XI. 


Ver.  ii.  "Who  are  of  the  circumcision." 
He  represseth  the  swelling  pride  of  the  Jews, 
and  inspiriteth  the  souls  of  these,  [the  Colos- 
sians,]  because  few  of  them  were  of  the  circum- 
cision, the  greater  number  of  the  Gentiles. 

"  Men  that  have  been,"  he  saith,  "  a  comfort 
unto  me."  He  shows  himself  to  be  set  in  the 
midst  of  great  trials.  So  that  neither  is  this  a 
small  thing.  When  we  comfort  the  Saints  by 
presence,  by  words,  by  assiduous  attendance, 
when  we  suffer  adversity  together  with  them, 
(for  he  saith,  "  as  bound  with  those  in  bonds  " ; 
[Heb.  xiii.  3])  when  we  make  their  sufferings 
ours,  we  shall  also  be  partakers  in  their  crowns. 
Hast  thou  not  been  dragged  to  the  stadium? 
Hast  thou  not  entered  into  the  lists  ?  It  is  an- 
other that  strips  himself,  another  that  wrestles ; 
but  if  thou  be  so  minded,  thou  too  shalt  be  a 
sharer.  Anoint  him,  become  his  favorer  and 
partisan,  from  without  the  lists  shout  loudly  for 
him,  stir  up  his  strength,  refresh  his  spirit.  It 
follows  that  the  same  things  should  be  done  in 
all  other  cases.  For  Paul  stood  not  in  need,  but 
in  order  to  stimulate  them  he  said  these  things. 
Thou  therefore  in  the  case  of  all  others,  stop 
the  mouths  of  those  who  would  abuse  such  an 
one,  procure  favorers  for  him,  receive  him  as  he 
cometh  forth  with  great  attention,  so  shalt  thou 
be  a  sharer  in  his  crowns,  so,  in  his  glory ;  and 
if  thou  do  no  other  thing,  but  only  hast  pleasure 
in  what  is  done,  even  thus  thou  sharest  in  no 
common  degree,  for  thou  hast  contributed  love, 
the  sum  of  all  good  things. 

For  if  they  that  weep  seem  to  share  in  the 
grief  of  those  in  sorrow,  and  gratify  them  might- 
ily, and  remove  the  excess  of  their  woe,  much 
more  do  they  also  that  rejoice  with  others,  make 
their  pleasure  greater.  For  how  great  an  evil  it 
is  not  to  have  companions  in  sorrow,  hear  the 
Prophet  saying,  "  And  I  looked  for  one  to  lament 
with  me,  but  there  was  none."  *  Wherefore  Paul 
also  saith,  "  Rejoice  with  them  that  rejoice  ;  and 
weep  with  them  that  weep."  (Rom.  xii.  15.) 
Increase  their  pleasure.  If  thou  see  thy  brother 
in  good  esteem,  say  not,  "the  esteem  is  his, 
why  should  I  rejoice."  These  words  are  not 
those  of  a  brother,  but  of  an  enemy.  If  thou 
be  so  minded,  it  is  not  his,  but  thine.  Thou 
hast  the  power  of  making  it  greater,  if  thou 
be  not  downcast,  but  pleased,  if  thou  be  cheer- 
ful, if  joyous.  And  that  it  is  so,  is  evident  from 
this ;  the  envious  envy  not  those  only  who  are 
in  good  esteem,  but  those  as  well  who  rejoice  at 
their  good  esteem,  so  conscious  are  they  that 
these  also  are  interested  in  that  good  esteem ; 
and  these  are  they  who  do  glory  most  in  it. 
For  the  other  even  blushes  when  praised  ex- 
ceedingly; but  these  with  great  pleasure  pride 
themselves  upon  it.     See  ye  not  in  the  case  of 

1  £.  V.  marg.  Ps.  lxix.  20. 


athletes,  how  the  one  is  crowned,  the  other  is 
not  crowned ;  but  the  grief  and  the  joy  is 
amongst  the  favorers  and  disfavorers,2  these  are 
they  that  leap,  they  that  caper? 

See  how  great  a  thing  is  the  not  envying. 
The  toil  is  another's,  the  pleasure  is  thine ;  an- 
other wears  the  crown,  and  thou  caperest,  thou 
art  gay.  For  tell  me,  seeing  it  is  another  that 
hath  conquered,  why  dost  thou  leap  ?  But  they 
also  know  well,  that  what  hath  been  done  is 
common.  Therefore  they  do  not  accuse  this 
man8  indeed,  but  they  try  to  beat  down  the 
victory ;  and  you  hear  them  saying  such  words 
as  these,  "  (There)  I  expunged  thee,"  and,  "  I 
beat  thee  down."  Although  the  deed  was  an- 
other's, still  the  praise  is  thine.  But  if  in  things 
without,  not  to  envy,  but  to  make  another's  good 
one's  own,  is  so  great  a  good,  much  more  in 
the  victory  of  the  devil  over  us  he  breathes  the 
more  furiously,  evidently  because  we  are  more 
pleased.4  Wicked  though  he  is,  and  bitter,  he 
well  knows  that  this  pleasure  is  great.  Wouldest 
thou  pain  him  ?  Be  glad  and  rejoice.  Wouldest 
thou  gladden  him  ?  Be  sad-visaged.  The  pain 
he  has  from  thy  brother's  victory,  thou  soothest 
by  thy  sadness ;  thou  stand  est  with  him,  severed 
from  thy  brother,  thou  workest  greater  mischief 
than  he.  For  it  is  not  the  same  for  one  that  is 
an  enemy  to  do  the  deeds  of  an  enemy,  and  for 
a  friend  to  stand  with  an  enemy ;  such  an  one 
is  more  detestable  than  an  enemy.  If  thy 
brother  have  gained  good  reputation*  either  by 
speaking,  or  by  brilliant6  or  successful  achieve- 
ment, become  thou  a  sharer  in  his  reputation, 
show  that  he  is  a  member  of  thine. 

"And  how?"  saith  one,  "for  the  reputation 
is  not  mine."  Never  speak  so.  Compress  thy 
lips.  If  thou  hadst  been  near  me,  thou  that 
speakest  on  that  wise,  I  would  have  even  put  my 
hand  over  thy  lips :  lest  the  enemy  should  hear 
thee.  Oftentimes  we  have  enmities  with  one 
another,  and  we  discover  them  not  to  our  ene- 
mies ;  dost  thou  then  discover  thine  to  the  devil  ? 
Say  not  so,  think  not  so ;  but  the  very  reverse : 
"he  is  one  of  my  members,  the  glory  passes  on 
to  the  body."  "How  then  is  it,"  saith  one, 
"  that  those  without  are  not  so  minded  ? " 
Because  of  thy  fault :  when  they  see  thee 
counting  his  pleasure  not  thine  own,  they  too 
count  it  not  thine :  were  they  to  see  thee  ap- 
propriating it,  they  durst  not  do  so,  but  thou 

*  See  Tac.  An.  xiii.  25.  The  spectators  at  theaters  and  at  the 
games  were  so  eager  in  their  favor  toward  one  or  another  as  some- 
times to  cause  serious  breaches  of  the  peace.  The  factions  of  the 
Circus  in  the  time  of  Justinian  are  described  by  Gibbon,  c.  xi. ;  see 
also  the  massacre  of  a.d.  501.  Tillemont,  Hist,  des  Emp.  t.  vi.; 
Anastasius,  art.  x. 

3  TovTui,  the  partisan  of  the  victor. 

4  [The  persons  designated  as  "we"  seem  to  be  conceived  as- 
divided  into  two  parts.  The  altered  text  has  smoothed  down  the 
difficulty:  "  much  more  in  the  victory  over  the  devil.  For  he  then, 
breathes  the  more  furiously  against  us,  evidently,"  &c.  —  J.  A.  B.] 

6  [Above  rendered  "  good  esteem." — J.  A.  B.] 

0  cn-idcucKVficfOf  1  al.  tvairifitvo* ,  "  by  being  praised*" 


Homily  XI.] 


HOMILIES   ON   COLOSSIANS. 


3U 


wouldest  become  equally  illustrious  with  him. 
Thou  hast  not  gained  reputation  by  speaking ; 
but  by  sharing  in  his  joy  thou  hast  gained  more 
renown  than  he.     For  if  love  be  a  great  thing, 
and  the  sum  of  all,  thou  hast  received  the  crown 
this  gives ;  he,  that  for  oratory,  thou,  that  for  ex- 
ceeding love ;  he  displayed  force  of  words,  but 
thou  by  deeds  hast  cast  down  envy,  hast  trodden 
under  foot  the  evil  eye.     So  that  in  reason  thou 
oughtest  rather  to  be  crowned  than  he,  thy  con- 
test is  the  more  brilliant;  thou  hast  not  only 
trodden  under  foot  envy,  but  thou  hast  even 
done  somewhat  else.     He  hath  one  crown  only, 
but  thou  two,  and  those  both  brighter  than  his 
one.    What  are  these?    One,  that  which  thou 
wonnest  against  envy,  another,  which  thou  art 
encircled  with  by  love.     For  the  sharing  in  his 
joy  is  a  proof  not  only  of  thy  being  free  from 
envy,  but  also  of  being  rooted  in  love.     Him 
oftumes  some  human  passion  sorely  disquieteth, 
vainglory  for  instance ;  but  thou  art  free  from 
every  passion,  for  it  is  not  of  vainglory  that  thou 
rejoicest  at  another's  good.     Hath  he  righted  up 
the  Church,  tell  me  ?  hath  he  increased  the  con- 
gregation ?     Praise  him  ;  again  thou  hast  a  two- 
fold crown;  thou  hast  struck  down  envy;  thou 
hast  enwreathed  thee  with  love.     Yea,  I  implore 
and  beseech  thee.    Wilt  thou  hear  of  a  third 
crown  even?     Him,  men  below  applaud,  thee, 
the  Angels  above.     For  it  is  not  the  same  thing, 
to  make  a  display  of  eloquence,  and  to  rule  the 
passions.    This  praise  is  for  a  season,  that  for 
ever ;  this,  of  men,  that,  of  God ;  this  man  is 
crowned  openly ;  but  thou  art  crowned  in  secret, 
where  thy  Father  seeth.     If  it  were  possible  to 
nave  peeled  off  the  body  and  seen  the  soul  of 
each,  I  would  have  shown  thee  that  this  is  more 
dignified  than  the  other,  more  resplendent. 

Tread  we  under  foot  the  goads  of  envy,  we 
advantage  ourselves,  beloved,  ourselves  shall  we 
enwreath  with  the  crown.     He  that  envieth  an- 
other fighteth  with  God,  not  with  him  ;  for  when 
he  seeth  him  to  have  grace,  and  is  grieved,  and 
*jsheth  the  Church  pulled  down,  he  fighteth  not 
*ith  him,  but  with  God.     For  tell  me,  if  one 
should  adorn   a   king's   daughter,   and   by  his 
adorning  and  gracing  her,  gain  for  himself  re- 
pown ;  and  another  person  should  wish  her  to  be 
*M  attired,  and  him  to  be  unable  to  adorn  her ; 
gainst  whom  would  he  have  been  plotting  mis- 
chief?   Against  the  other?  or  against  her  and 
"er  father?     So   too   now,   thou   that   enviest, 
%htest  with  the  Church,  thou  warrest  with  God. 
for,  since  with  the  good  repute  of  thy  brother 
18  interwoven  also  the  Church's  profit,  need  is, 
*h*t  if  the  one  be  undone,  the  other  shall  be 
Ur*done  also.     So  that,  in  this  regard  also,  thou 
^oest  a  deed  of  Satan,  seeing  thou  plottest  mis- 


chief against  the  body  of  Christ.  Art  thou 
pained  at  this  man  ?  Wrongly,  when  he  hath  in 
nothing  wronged  thee ;  yea,  much  rather,  thou 
art  pained  at  Christ.  Wherein  hath  He  wronged 
thee,  that  thou  wilt  not  suffer  His  body  to  be 
decked  with  beauty?  that  thou  wilt  not  suffer 
His  bride  to  be  adorned?  Consider,  I  pray 
thee,  the  punishment,  how  sore.  Thou  gladden- 
est  thine  enemies;  and  him  too  himself,  the 
man  in  good  esteem,  whom  through  thy  envy 
thou  wishest  to  grieve,  thou  dost  the  rather  glad- 
den; thou  dost  by  thine  envy  the  rather  show 
that  he  is  in  good  esteem,  for  otherwise  thou 
wouldest  not  have  envied  him.  Thou  showest 
the  rather  that  thou  art  in  punishment. 

I  am  ashamed  indeed  to  exhort  you  from  such 
motives,  but  seeing  our  weakness  is  so  great,  let 
us  be  instructed  even  from  these,  and  free  our- 
selves from  this  destructive  passion.  Grievest 
thou  that  he  is  in  good  esteem  ?  then  why  swell- 
est  thou  that  esteem  by  envying  ?  Wishest  thou 
to  punish  him  ?  Why  then  showest  thou  that  thou 
art  pained?  Why  punish  thyself  before  him, 
whom  thou  wouldest  not  have  well  esteemed? 
Thereafter  double  will  be  his  pleasure,  and  thy 
punishment;  not  only  because  thou  provest 
him  to  be  great ;  but  because  thou  begettest  in 
him  yet  another  pleasure,  by  punishing  thyself; 
and  again,  at  what  thou  art  pained,  he  is  pleased, 
whilst  thou  enviest.  See  how  we  deal  ourselves 
heavy  blows  without  perceiving  it !  He  is  an 
enemy.  And  yet,  why  an  enemy?  What  wrong 
hath  he  done  ?  Still,  however,  by  this  we  make 
our  enemy  the  more  illustrious,  and  thereby  pun- 
ish ourselves  the  more.  And  herein  again  we 
punish  ourselves,  if  we  have  discovered  that  he 
knows  it.  For  perhaps  he  is  not  pleased,1  but 
we  thinking  him  to  be  so,  are  again  pained  on 
that  account.  Cease  then  your  envying.  Why 
inflictest  thou  wounds  upon  thyself? 

Think  we  of  these  things,  beloved ;  of  those 
two  crowns  for  them  that  envy  not;  of  those 
praises  from  men,  of  those  from  God ;  of  the 
evils  that  come  of  envying ;  and  so  shall  we  be 
able  to  quell  the  brute,  and  to  be  in  good  esteem 
before  God,  and  to  obtain  the  same  things  with 
those  who  are  of  good  esteem.  For  perhaps  we 
shall  obtain  them,  and  if  we  obtain  them  not,  it 
will  be  for  our  advantage  ;  still,  even  so,  we  shall 
be  able,  if  we  have  lived  to  the  glory  of  God,  to 
obtain  the  good  things  promised  to  them  that 
love  Him,  through  the  grace  and  love  toward 
man  of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  with  whom,  &c. 

1  The  Empress  Eudoxia  is  thought  to  have  been  reflected  on  in 
some  of  the  passages  against  extravagance.  This  whole  passage 
probably  alludes  to  the  enmity  which  prevailed  at  court  in  conse- 
quence, and  these  words  were  probably  meant  to  hint  at  the  real  love 
of  St.  Chrysostom  for  his  bitterest  enemies. 


3H 


WORKS   OF   ST.   CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  XII. 


HOMILY   XII. 


COLOSSIANS   iv.    12,    1 3. 


44  Epaphras,  who  is  one  of  you,  a  servant  of  Christ  Jesus, 
saluteth  you,  always  striving  for  you  in  his  prayers, 
that  ye  may  stand  perfect  and  fully  assured  in  all  the 
will  of  God.  For  I  bear  him  witness,  that  he  hath 
much  zeal1  for  you,  and  for  them  in  Laodicea,  and 
for  them  in  Hierapolis." 

In  the  commencement  of  this  Epistle  also,  he 
commended  this  man  for  his  love ;  for  even  to 
praise  is  a  sign  of  love ;  thus  in  the  beginning 
he  said,  "  Who  also  declared  unto  us  your  love 
in  the  Spirit."  (Col.  i.  8.)  To  pray  for  one  is 
also  a  sign  of  love,  and  causeth  love  again.  He 
commends  him  moreover  in  order  to  open  a  door 
to  his  teachings,  for  reverendness  in  the  teacher 
is  the  disciples'  advantage ;  and  so  again  is  his 
saying,2  "  one  of  you,"  in  order  that  they  might 
pride  themselves  upon  the  man,  as  producing 
such  men.  And  he  saith,  "  always  striving  for 
you  in  prayers."  He  said  not  simply  "praying," 
but  "  striving,"  trembling  and  fearing.  "  For  I 
bear  him  witness,"  he  saith,  "  that  he  hath  much 
zeal  for  you."  A  trustworthy  witness.  "That 
he  hath,"  he  saith,  "  much  zeal  for  you,"  that  is, 
that  he  loveth  you  exceedingly ;  and  burneth  with 
passionate  affection  for  you.  "  And  them  in  Lao- 
dicea, and  them  in  Hierapolis."  He  commend- 
eth  him  to  those  also.  But  whence  were  they  to 
know  this  ?  They  would  assuredly  have  heard ; 
however,  they  would  also  learn  it  when  the  Epistle 
was  read.  For  he  said,  "  Cause  that  it  be  read 
also  in  the  church  of  the  Laodiceans."  "  That 
ye  may  stand  perfect,"  he  saith.  At  once  he  both 
accuseth  them,  and  without  offensiveness  gives 
them  advice  and  counsel.  For  it  is  possible  both 
to  be  perfect,  and  withal  not  to  stand,  as  if  one 
were  to  know  all,  and  still  be  wavering;  it  is 
possible  also  not  to  be  perfect,  and  yet  to  stand, 
as  if  one  were  to  know  a  part,  and  stand  [not3] 
firmly.  But  this  man  prayeth  for  both  :  "  That 
ye  may  stand  perfect,"  he  saith.  See  how  again 
he  has  reminded  them  of  what  he  said  about 
the  Angels,  and  about  life.  "And  fully  assured," 
he  saith,  "  in  all  the  will  of  God."  It  is  not 
enough,  simply  to  do  His  will.  He  that  is 
41  filled,"  suffered!  not  any  other  will  to  be  within 
him,  for  if  so,  he  is  not  wholly  filled.  "  For  1 
bear  him  witness,"  he  saith,  "  that  he  hath  much 
zeal."  Both  "  zeal,"  and  "  great "  ;  both  are 
intensitive.     As  he  saith  himself,  when  writing 

1  [Correct  text  of  N.  T.,  as  in  Rev.  Vcr.,  "much  labor."  — 
J.  A.B.] 

*  Ed.  Par.  [and  Field]  conj.  rtp  for  to,  "  again  (he  commends 
him)  by  saying.  ' 

$  Hales  seems  right  in  expunging  this  word;  otherwise  the  sense 
m  "  though  not."     [Omitted  in  one  MS.  and  in  Field.  —  J.  A.  B.J 


to  the  Corinthians,  "  For  I  am  jealous4  over  you 
with  a  godly  jealousy."     (2  Cor.  xi.  2.) 

Ver.  14.  "Luke,  the  beloved  physician,  sa- 
luteth you."  This  is  the  Evangelist.  It  is  not 
to  lower  this  man  that  he  placeth  him  after,  but 
to  raise  the  other,  viz.  Epaphroditus.  It  is 
probable  that  there  were  others  called  by  this 
name.5  "  And  Demas,"  he  says.  After  saying, 
"  Luke,  the  physician,  saluteth  you,"  he  added, 
"  the  beloved."  And  no  small  praise  is  this,  but 
even  great  exceedingly,  to  be  beloved  of  Paul. 

Ver.  15.  "Salute  the  brethren  that  are  in 
Laodicea,  and  Nymphas,  and  the  Church  that 
is  in  their  house." 

See  how  he  cements,  and  knits  them  together 
with  one  another,  not  by  salutation  only,  but 
also  by  interchanging  his.  Epistles.  Then  again 
he  pays  a  compliment  by  addressing  him  indi- 
vidually. And  this  he  doth  not  without  a  reason, 
but  in  order  to  lead  the  others  also  to  emulate 
his  zeal.  For  it  is  not  a  small  thing  not  to  be 
numbered  with  the  rest.  Mark  further  how  he 
shows  the  man  to  be  great,  seeing  his  house  was 
a  church. 

Ver.  14.  "And  when  this  Epistle  hath  been 
read  among  you,  cause  that  it  be  read  also  in 
the  church  of  the  Laodiceans."  I  suppose  there 
are  some  of  the  things  therein  written,  which 
it  was  needful  that  those  also  should  hear.  And 
they  would  have  the  greater  advantage  of  recog- 
nizing their  own  errors  in  the  charges  brought 
against  others. 

"And  that  ye  also  read  the  Epistle  from 
Laodicea."  Some  say  that  this  is  not  Paul's  to 
them,  but  theirs  to  Paul,  for  he  said  not  that 
to  the  Laodiceans,  but  that  written  "  from 
Laodicea." 

Ver.  17.  "  And  say  to  Archippus,  Take  heed 
to  the  ministry  which  thou  hast  received  in  the 
Lord,  that  thou  fulfill  it."  Wherefore  doth  he 
not  write  to  him?  Perhaps  he  needed  it  not, 
but  only  a  bare  reminding,  so  as  to  be  more 
diligent. 

Ver.  18.  "The  salutation  of  me,  Paul,  with 
mine  own  hand."  This  is  a  proof  of  their  sin- 
cerity and  affection ;  that  they  both  looked  at 
his  handwriting,  and  that  with  emotion.  "  Re- 
member my  bonds."  Wonderful !  How  great 
the  consolation  !  For  this  is  enough  to  cheer 
them  on  to  all  things,  and  make  them  bear  them- 

4  [The  Greek  word  means  both  zealous  and  jealous.  In  fact,  the 
English  word  "jealous"  is  only  a  corrupt  form  of  " zealous."  — 
J.  A.  B.] 

6  i.e.  Luke.  Perhaps  "  and  Demas  *'  should  come  after  the  next 
clause,  fit  is  evident  that  we  have  here  only  rough  notes,  dictated, 
or,  more  likely,  taken  in  shorthand. — J.  A.  B.J 


Homily  XII.] 


HOMILIES  ON   COLOSSIANS. 


315 


selves  more  nobly  in  their  trials ;  but  he  made 
them  not  only  the  braver,  but  also  the  more 
nearly  interested.    "  Grace  be  with  you.    Amen." 

It  is  great  praise,  and  greater  than  all  the 
rest,  his  saying  of  Epaphras,  "  who  is  [one]  of 
you,  a  servant  of  Christ."  *  And  he  calleth  him 
a  minister  for  them,  like  as  he  termeth  himself 
also  a  minister  of  the  Church,  as  when  he  saith, 
"  Whereof  I  Paul  was  made  a  minister."  (Col. 
i.  23.)  To  the  same  dignity  he  advances  this 
man ;  and  above  he  calleth  him  a  "  fellow-ser- 
vant "  (Col.  i.  7),  and  here,  "  a  servant."  "  Who 
is  of  you,"  he  saith,  as  if  speaking  to  a  mother, 
and  saying,  "who  is  of  thy  womb."  But  this 
praise  might  have  gendered  envy ;  therefore  he 
commendeth  him  not  from  these  things  only, 
but  also  from  what  had  regard  to  themselves ; 
and  so  he  does  away  with  envy,  both  in  the 
former  place,  and  here.  "Always,"  he  saith, 
**  striving  for  you,"  not  now  only,  whilst  with  us, 
to  make  a  display ;  nor  yet  only  whilst  with  you, 
to  make  a  display  before  you.  By  saying,  "  striv- 
ing," he  hath  showed  his  great  earnestness. 
Then,  that  he  might  not  seem  to  be  flattering 
them,  he  added,  "  that  he  hath  much  zeal  for 
you,  and  for  them  in  Laodicea,  and  for  them  in 
Hierapolis."  And  the  words,  "that  ye  may 
stand  perfect,"  are  not  words  of  flattery,  but  of 
a  reverend  teacher.  Both  "  fully  assured  "  he 
saith,  "  and  perfect."  The  one  he  granted  them, 
the  other  he  said  was  lacking.  And  he  said  not, 
"  that  ye  be  not  shaken,"  but,  "  that  ye  may 
stand."  Their  being  saluted,  however,  by  many, 
is  refreshing  to  them,  seeing  that  not  only  their 
friends  from  among  themselves,  but  others  also, 
remember  them. 

"  And  say  to  Archippus,  Take  heed  to  the  min- 
istry which  thou  hast  received  in  the  Lord."  His 
chief  aim  is  to  subject  them  to  him2  entirely. 
For  they  could  no  more  have  complaint  against 
him  for  rebuking  them,  when  they  themselves 
had  taken  it  all  upon  them  ;  for  it  is  not  reason- 
able to  talk  to  the  disciples  about  the  teacher. 
But  to  stop  their  mouths,  he  writes  thus  to  them  ; 
"Say  to  Archippus,"  he  saith,  "Take  heed." 
This  word  is  everywhere  used  to  alarm ;  as 
when  he  saith,  "  Take  heed  of  dogs."  (Phil.  iii. 
2.)  "Take  heed  lest  there  shall  be  any  one  that 
maketh  spoil  of  you."  (Col.  ii.  8.)  "Take 
heed  lest  by  any  means  this  liberty  of  yours  be- 
come a  sturablingblock  to  the  weak."  (1  Cor. 
viii.  9.)  And  he  always  so  expresses  himself 
when  he  would  terrify.  "Take  heed,"  he  saith, 
"  to  the  ministry  which  thou  hast  received  in  the 
Lord,  that  thou  fulfill  it."     He  doth  not  even 

1  [The  two  following  paragraphs  go  again  over  the  ground  of  the 
preceding.  Are  they  notes  taken  by  two  nearers,  or  notes  made  by 
the  preacher  for  two  occasions?  Or  does  he  return  and  run  over 
the  passage  again,  to  see  what  further  remarks  it  will  suggest?  The 
Utter  seems  to  be  the  case  in  a  good  many  of  the  Homilies  on  Acts. 
Comp.  above,  on  Horn.  xi.  —  J.  A.  B.] 

*  i.e.  Archippus. 


allow  him  the  power  of  choosing,  as  he  saith 
himself,  "  For  if  I  do  this  of  mine  own  will,  I 
have  a  reward :  but  if  not  of  mine  own  will,  I 
have  a  stewardship  entrusted  to  me."  ( 1  Cor. 
ix.  17.)  "That  thou  fulfill  it,"  continually  using 
diligence.  "Which  thou  hast  received  in  the 
Lord,  that  thou  fulfill  it."  Again,  the  word  "  in  " 
means  "  through  the  Lord."  He  gave  it  thee, 
says  he,  not  we.  He  subjects  them  also  to  him,8 
when  he  shows  that  they  had  been  committed  to 
his  hands  by  God. 

"  Remember  my  bonds.  Grace  be  with  you. 
Amen."  He  hath  released  their  terror.  For 
although  their  teacher  be  in  bonds,  yet  "  grace  " 
releaseth  him.  This  too  is  of  grace,  the  grant- 
ing him  to  be  put  in  bonds.  For  hear  Luke 
saying,  The  Apostles  returned  "  from  the  pres- 
ence of  the  council,  rejoicing  that  they  were 
counted  worthy  to  suffer  dishonor  for  the  Name." 
(Acts  v.  41.)  For  both  to  suffer  shame,  and  to 
be  put  in  bonds,  is  indeed  to  be  "counted 
worthy."  For,  if  he  that  hath  one  whom  he 
loveth,  deemeth  it  gain  to  suffer  aught  for  his 
sake,  much  rather  then  is  it  so  to  suffer  for  the 
sake  of  Christ.  Repine  we  not  then  at  our  tribu- 
lations for  Christ's  sake,  but  let  us  also  remem- 
ber Paul's  bonds,  and  be  this  our  incitement. 
For  instance :  dost  thou  exhort  any  to  give  to 
the  poor  for  Christ's  sake?  Remind  them  of 
Paul's  bonds,  and  bemoan  thy  misery  and  theirs, 
seeing  that  he  indeed  gave  up  even  his  body  to 
bonds  for  His  sake,  but  thou  wilt  not  give  a  por- 
tion even  of  thy  food.  Art  thou  lifted  up  be- 
cause of  thy  good  deeds?  Remember  Paul's 
bonds,  that  thou  hast  suffered  nought  of  that 
kind,  and  thou  wilt  be  lifted  up  no  more.  Cov- 
etest  thou  any  of  the  things  that  are  thy  neigh- 
bor's ?  Remember  Paul's  bonds,  and  thou  wilt 
see  how  unreasonable  it  is,  that  whilst  he  was  in 
perils,  thou  shouldest  be  in  delights.  Again,  is 
thine  heart  set  upon  self-indulgence  ?  Picture  to 
thy  mind  Paul's  prison-house ;  thou  art  his  dis- 
ciple, his  fellow-soldier.  How  is  it  reasonable, 
that  thy  fellow-soldier  should  be  in  bonds,  and 
thou  in  luxury?  Art  thou  in  affliction?  Dost 
thou  deem  thyself  forsaken  ?  Hear  Paul's 
bonds,4  and  thou  wilt  see,  that  to  be  in  affliction 
is  no  proof  of  being  forsaken.  Wouldest  thou 
wear  silken  robes?  Remember  Paul's  bonds; 
and  these  things  will  appear  to  thee  more  worth- 
less than  the  filth-bespattered  rags  of  her  that 
sitteth  apart.5  Wouldest  thou  array  thee  with 
golden  trinkets?  Picture  to  thy  mind  Paul's 
bonds,  and  these  things  will  seem  to  thee  no 
better  than  a  withered  bulrush.  Wouldest  thou 
tire  thine  hair,  and  be  beautiful  to  see  ?    Think 

8  i.e.  Archippus. 

*  [So  in  all  the  MSS.  known  to  Field.  Notice  how  jejune  is  the 
correction,  "words,"  which  went  into  the  printed  editions.  — J.  A.  B.] 

6  [This  also  is  wanting  in  the  editions,  but  found  in  the  MSS., 
and  indeed  quite  in  Chrys.'s  manner.     See  Isa.  lxiv.  6. — J.  A.  B.] 


316 


WORKS   OF   ST.   CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  XII. 


of  Paul's  squalidness  within  that  prison-house, 
and  thou  wilt  burn  for  that  beauty,  and  deem 
this  the  extreme  of  ugliness,  and  wilt  groan  bit- 
terly through  longing  for  those  bonds.  Wouldest 
thou  daub  thee  with  pastes  and  pigments,  and 
such  like  things  ?  Think  of  his  tears :  a  three- 
years  space,  night  and  day,  he  ceased  not  to 
weep."  (Acts  xx.  31.)  With  this  adorning  deck 
thy  cheek ;  these  tears  do  make  it  bright.  I  say 
not,  that  thou  weep  for  others,  (I  wish  indeed 
it  could  be  even  so,  but  this  is  too  high  for  thee,) 
but  for  thine  own  sins  I  advise  thee  to  do  this. 
Hast  thou  ordered  thy  slave  to  be  put  in  bonds, 
and  wast  thou  angry,  and  exasperated?  Re- 
member Paul's  bonds,  and  thou  wilt  straightway 
stay  thine  anger ;  remember  that  we  are  of  the 
bound,  not  the  binders,  of  the  bruised  in  heart, 
not  the  bruisers.  Hast  thou  lost  self-control,  and 
shouted  loud  in  laughter?  Think  of  his  lamen- 
tations, and  thou  wilt  groan;  such  tears  will 
show  thee  brighter  far.  Seest  thou  any  persons 
rioting  and  dancing?  Remember  his  tears. 
What  fountain  has  gushed  forth  so  great  streams 
as  those  eyes  did  tears?  "  Remember  my  tears  " 
(Acts  xx.  31),  he  saith,  as  here  "bonds."  And 
with  reason  he  spoke  thus  to  them,  when  he  sent 
for  them  from  Ephesus  to  Miletus.  For  he  was 
then  speaking  to  teachers.  He  demands  of 
those  therefore,  that  they  should  sympathize1 
also,  but  of  these  that  they  should  only  encoun- 
ter dangers. 

What  fountain  wilt  thou  compare  to  these 
tears  ?  That  in  Paradise,  which  watereth  the 
whole  earth?  But  thou  wilt  have  mentioned 
nothing  like  it.  For  this  fount  of  tears  watered 
souls,  not  earth.  If  one  were  to  show  us  Paul 
bathed  in  tears,  and  groaning,  would  not  this  be 
better  far  to  sect,  than  countless  choirs  gayly 
crowned  ?  I  am  not  now  speaking  of  you ;  but, 
if  one,  having  pulled  away  from  the  theater  and 
the  stage  some  wanton  fellow,  burning  and 
drunken  with  carnal  love,  were  to  show  him  a 
young  virgin  in  the  very  flower  of  her  age,  sur- 
passing her  fellows,  both  in  other  respects,  and 
in  her  face  more  than  the  rest  of  her  person, 
having  an  eye,  tender  and  soft,  that  gently  resteth, 
and  gently  rolleth,  moist,  mild,  calmly  smiling, 
and  arrayed  in  much  modesty  and  much  grace, 
fringed  with  dark  lashes  both  under  and  over, 
having  an  eyeball,  so  to  speak,  alive,  a  forehead 
radiant ;  underneath,  again,  a  cheek  shaded  to 
exact  redness,  lying  smooth  as  marble,  and  even ; 
and  then  any  one  should  show  me  Paul  weeping ; 
leaving  that  maiden,  I  would  have  eagerly  sprung 
away  to  the  sight  of  him ;  for  from  his  eyes  there 

1  [This  awaXytlv  was  changed  in  most  MSS.  and  the  editions 
into  <rvvdy€iv,  "  gather  together."  Hales  conjectured  trvvaXytiv. 
Field  finds  it  in  a  MS.  The  other  is  indeed  the  more  difficult  read- 
ing, and  likely  to  have  been  altered  into  an  easy  one,  but  the  diffi- 
culty in  this  case  becomes  practically  unintelligible.  —  J.  A.  B.] 


beamed  spiritual  beauty.  For  that  other  trans- 
porteth  the  souls  of  youths,  it  scorcheth  and  in- 
flameth  them ;  but  this,  on  the  contrary,  sub- 
dueth  them.  This  maketh  the  eyes  of  the  soul 
more  beauteous,  it  curbeth  the  belly :  it  filleth 
with  the  love  of  wisdom,  with  much  sympathy  : 
and  it  is  able  to  soften  even  a  soul  of  adamant. 
With  these  tears  the  Church  is  watered,  with 
these  souls  are  planted ;  yea,  though  there  be  fire 
sensible  and  substantial,  yet  can  these  tears 
quench  it ;  these  tears  quench  the  fiery  darts  of 
the  wicked  one. 

Remember  we  then  these  tears  of  his,  and  we 
shall  laugh  to  scorn  all  present  things.  These 
tears  did  Christ  pronounce  blessed,  saying, 
"  Blessed  are  they  that  mourn,  and  blessed  are 
they  that  weep,  for  they  shall  laugh."  (Matt.  v. 
4 ;  Luke  vi.  21.)  Such  tears  did  Isaiah  too,  and 
Jeremiah  weep ;  and  the  former  said,  "  Leave 
me  alone,  I  will  weep  bitterly "  (Isa.  xxii.  4, 
Sept.)  :  and  the  latter,  "  Who  will  give  my  head 
water,  and  mine  eyes  fountains  of  tears?"  (Jer. 
ix.  1) ;  as  though  the  natural  fount  were  not 
enough. 

Nothing  is  sweeter  than  these  tears ;  sweeter 
are  they  than  any  laughter.  They  that  mourn, 
know  how  great  consolation  it  possesseth.  Let 
us  not  think  this  a  thing  to  be  deprecated,  but 
one  to  be  even  exceedingly  prayed  for ;  not  that 
others  may  sin,  but  that,  when  they  sin,  we  may 
be  heart-broken  for  them.  Remember  we  these 
tears,  these  bonds.  Surely  too  upon  those  bonds 
tears  descended ;  but  the  death  of  the  perish- 
ing, of  those  that  had  bound  him  in  them,  suf- 
fered him  not  to  taste  the  pleasure  of  the  bonds. 
For  in  their  behalf  he  grieved,  being  a  disciple 
of  Him  that  bewept  the  priests  of  the  Jews ;  not 
because  they  were  going  to  crucify  Him,  but  be- 
cause they  were  themselves  perishing.  And  He 
doeth  not  this  Himself  alone,  but  He  thus  ex- 
horteth  others  also,  saying,  "  Daughters  of  Jeru- 
salem, weep  not  for  Me."  (Luke  xxiii.  28.) 
These  eyes  saw  Paradise,  saw  the  third  heaven : 
but  I  count  not  them  so  blessed  because  of  this 
sight,  as  because  of  those  tears,  through  which 
they  saw  Christ.  Blessed,  indeed,  was  that  sight ; 
for  he  himself  even  glories  in  it,  saying,  "  Have 
I  not  seen  Jesus  Christ  our  Lord?"  (1  Cor.  ix. 
1)  ;  but  more  blessed  so  to  weep. 

In  that  sight  many  have  been  partakers,  and 
those  who  have  not  so  been,  Christ  the  rather 
calls  blessed,  saying, "  Blessed  are  they  that  have 
not  seen,  and  yet  have  believed"  (John  xx. 
29)  ;  but  unto  this  not  many  have  attained.  For 
if  to  stay  here  for  Christ's  sake  were  more  need- 
ful than  to  depart  to  Him  (Phil.  i.  23,  24),  for 
the  sake  of  the  salvation  of  others ;  surely  then 
to  groan  for  others'  sakes,  is  more  needful  even 
than  to  see  Him.     For  if  for  His  sake  to  be  in 


Homily  XII.] 


HOMILIES   ON   COLOSSIANS. 


317 


hell,1  is  rather  to  be  desired,  than  to  be  with 
Him ;  and  to  be  separated  from  Him  for  His 
sake  more  to  be  desired  than  to  be  with  Him, 
(for  this  is  what  he  said,  "  For  I  could  wish  that 
I  myself  were  anathema  from  Christ"  (Rom. 
ix.  3)),  much  more  is  weeping  for  His  sake. 
"  I  ceased  not,"  he  saith,  "  to  admonish  every- 
one with  tears."  (Acts  xx.  31.)  Wherefore? 
Not  fearing  the  dangers ;  no ;  but  as  if  one  sit- 
ting by  a  sick  man's  side,  and  not  knowing 
what  would  be  the  end,  should  weep  for  affec- 
tion, fearing  lest  he  should  lose  his  life ;  so  too 
did  he;  when  he  saw  any  one  diseased,  and 
could  not  prevail  by  rebuke,  he  thenceforward 
wept.  So  did  Christ  also,  that  happily  they 
might  reverence  His  tears :  thus,  one  sinned, 
He  rebuked  him ;  the  rebuked  spat  upon  Him, 
and  sprang  aloof;  He  wept,  that  haply  He 
might  win  him  even  so. 

Remember  we  these  tears  :  thus  let  us  bring 
up  our  daughters,  thus  our  sons ;  weeping  when 
we  see  them  in  evil.  As  many  women  as  wish  to 
be  loved,  let  them  remember  Paul's  tears,  and 
groan :  as  many  of  you  as  are  counted  blest,  as 
many  as  are  in  bridal  chambers,  as  many  as  are 
in  pleasure,  remember  these ;  as  many  as  are  in 
mourning,  exchange  tears  for  tears.  He  mourned 
not  for  the  dead ;  but  for  those  that  were  per- 
ishing whilst  alive.  Shall  I  tell  of  other  tears  ? 
Timothy  also  wept ;  for  he  was  this  man's  dis- 
ciple; wherefore  also  when  writing  to  him  he 
said,  "  Remembering  thy  tears,  that  I  may  be 
filled  with  joy."  (2  Tim.  i.  4.)  Many  weep  even 
from  pleasure.  So  it  is  also  a  matter  of  pleasure, 
and  that  of  the  utmost  intensity.  So  the  tears 
are  not  painful :  yea,  the  tears  that  flow  from 
such  sorrow  are  even  better  far  than  those  due 
to  worldly  pleasure.  Hear  the  Prophet  saying, 
44  The  Lord  hath  heard  the  voice  of  my  weep- 
ing, he  hath  heard  the  voice  of  my  supplica- 
tion." (Ps.  vi.  8.)  For  where  is  the  tear  not 
useful?  in  prayers?  in  exhortations?  We  get 
them  an  ill  name,  by  using  them  not  to  what 
they  are  given  us  for.  When  we  entreat  a  sin- 
ning brother,  we  ought  to  weep,  grieving  and 
groaning;  when  we  exhort  any  one,  and  he 
giveth  us  no  heed,  but  goeth  on  perishing,  we 
ought  to  weep.  These  are  the  tears  of  heavenly 
wisdom.  When  however  one  is  in  poverty,  or 
bodily  disease,  or  dead,  not  so;  for  these  are 
not  things  worthy  of  tears. 

As  then  we  gain  an  ill  name  for  laughter  also, 
when  we  use  it  out  of  season ;  so  too  do  we  for 
tears,  by  having  recourse  to  them  unseasonably. 
For  the  virtue  of  each  thing  then  discovers  it- 
self when  it  is  brought  to  its  own  fitting  work, 
but  when  to  one  that  is  alien,  it  doth  no  longer 
so.   For  instance,  wine  is  given  for  cheerfulness, 

1  See  St.  Chrvsostom  on  Rom.  ix.  3,  where  he  says  the  wish  was 
"  to  be  separated  from  His  presence,  not  from  His  love." 


not  drunkenness,  bread  for  nourishment,  sexual 
intercourse  for  the  procreation  of  children.  As 
then  these  things  have  gained  an  ill  name,  so 
also  have  tears.  Be  there  a  law  laid  down,  that 
they  be  used  in  prayers  and  exhortations  only, 
ana  see  how  desirable  a  thing  they  will  become. 
Nothing  doth  so  wipe  out  sins,  as  tears.  Tears 
show  even  this  bodily  countenance  beautiful ; 
for  they  win  the  spectator  to  pity,  they  make  it 
respected  in  our  eyes.  Nothing  is  sweeter  than 
tearful  eyes.  For  this  is  the  noblest  member 
we  have,  and  the  most  beautiful,  and  the  soul's 
own.  And  therefore  we  are  so  bowed  there- 
with, as  though  we  saw  the  soul  itself  lamenting. 

I  have  not  spoken  these  things  without  a 
reason;  but  in  order  that  ye  may  cease  your 
attendance  at  weddings,  at  dancings,  at  Satanical 
performances.  For  see  what  the  devil  hath 
invented.  Since  nature  itself  hath  withheld 
women  from  the  stage,  and  the  disgraceful 
things  enacted  there,  he  hath  introduced  into 
the  women's  apartment  the  furniture  of  the 
theater,  I  mean,  wanton  men  and  harlots.  This 
pestilence  the  custom  of  marriages  hath  intro- 
duced, or  rather,  not  of  marriages,  far  be  it,  but 
of  our  own  silliness.  What  is  it  thou  doest,  O 
man?  Dost  thou  not  know  what  thou  art  at? 
Thou  marriest  a  wife  for  chastity,  and  pro- 
creation of  children;  what  then  mean  these 
harlots?  That  there  may  be,  one  answereth, 
greater  gladness.  And  yet  is  not  this  rather  mad- 
ness? Thou  insultest  thy  bride,  thou  insultest 
the  women  that  are  invited.  For  if  they  are 
delighted  with  such  proceedings,  the  thing  is  an 
insult.  If  to  see  harlots  acting  indecorously 
conferreth  any  honor,  wherefore  dost  thou  not 
drag  thy  bride  also  thither,  that  she  too  may 
see?  It  is  quite  indecent  and  disgraceful  to 
introduce  into  one's  house  lewd  fellows  and 
dancers,  and  all  that  Satanic  pomp. 

"  Remember,"  he  saith,  "  my  bonds."  Mar- 
riage is  a  bond,  a  bond  ordained  of  God,  a 
harlot  is  a  severing  and  a  dissolving.  It  is  per- 
mitted you  to  embellish  marriage  with  other 
things,  such  as  full  tables,  and  apparel.  I  do 
not  cut  off  these  things,  lest  I  should  seem  to 
be  clownish  to  an  extreme ;  and  yet  Rebecca 
was  content  with  her  veil2  only  (Gen.  xxiv.  65)  ; 
still  I  do  not  cut  them  off.  It  is  permitted  you 
to  embellish  and  set  off  marriage  with  apparel, 
with  the  presence  of  reverend  men  and  reverend 
women.  Why  introducest  thou  those  mock- 
eries ? 8  why  those  monsters  ?  Tell  us  what  it  is 
thou  hearest  from  them?  What?  dost  thou 
blush  to  tell  ?  Dost  thou  blush,  and  yet  force 
them  to  do  it?  If  it  is  honorable,  wherefore 
dost  thou  not  do  it  thyself  as  well  ?  but  if  dis- 
graceful, wherefore  dost  thou  compel  another? 

*  Bipiarpov,  **  summer  robe." 

*  cvixappaTa,  subjects  of  rejoicing  for  the  enemy. 


3*8 


WORKS   OF   ST.    CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  XH* 


Everything  should  be  full  of  chasteness,  of  grav- 
ity, of  orderliness ;  but  I  see  the  reverse,  people 
frisking  like  camels  and  mules.  For  the  virgin, 
her  chamber  *  is  the  only  befitting  place.  "  But," 
saith  one,  "  she  is  poor."  Because  she  is  poor, 
she  ought  to  be  modest  also ;  let  her  have  her 
character  in  the  place  of  a  fortune.  Has  she  no 
dowry  to  give  with  herself?  Then  why  dost 
thou  make  her  otherwise  contemptible  through 
her  life  and  manners  ?  I  praise  the  custom,  that 
virgins  attend  to  do  honor  to  their  fellow ;  ma- 
trons attend  to  do  honor  to  her  who  is  made  one 
of  their  order.  Rightly  hath  this  been  ordered. 
For  these  are  two  companies,  one  of  virgins, 
the  other  of  the  married ;  the  one  are  giving  her 
up,  the  other  receiving  her.  The  bride  is  be- 
tween them,  neither  virgin,  nor  wife,  for  she  is 
coming  forth  from  those,  and  entering  into  the 
fellowship  of  these.  But  those  harlots,  what 
mean  they?  They  ought  to  hide  their  faces 
when  marriage  is  celebrated ;  they  ought  to  be 
dug  into  the  earth,  (for  harlotry  is  the  corrup- 
tion of  marriage,)  but  we  introduce  them  at  our 
marriages.  And,  when  ye  are  engaged  in  any 
work,  ye  count  it  ill-omened  to  speak  even  a 
syllable  of  what  is  adverse  to  it ;  for  instance, 
when  thou  sowest,  when  thou  drawest  off  the 
wine  from  thy  vats,  thou  wouldest  not,  even  if 
asked,  utter  a  syllable  about  vinegar ;  but  here, 
where  the  object  is  chasteness,  introduce  ye  the 
vinegar?  for  such  is  an  harlot.  When  ye  are 
preparing  sweet  ointment,  ye  suffer  nought  ill- 
scented  to  be  near.  Marriage  is  a  sweet  oint- 
ment. Why  then  introducest  thou  the  foul 
stench  of  the  dunghill  into  the  preparation  of 
thy  ointment?  What  sayest  thou?  Shall  the 
virgin  dance,  and  yet  feel  no  shame  before  her 
fellow?  For  she  ought  to  have  more  gravity 
than  the  other;  she  hath  at  least  come  forth 
from  the  [nursed]  arm,  and  not  from  the  palaes- 
tra. For  the  virgin  ought  not  to  appear  pub- 
licly at  all  at  a  marriage. 

Seest  thou  not  how  in  kings'  houses,  the  hon- 
ored are  within,  about  the  king,  the  unhonored 
without?  Do  thou  too  be  within  about  the 
bride.  But  remain  in  the  house  in  chasteness, 
expose  not  thy  virginity.  Either  company  is 
standing  by,  the  one  to  show  of  what  sort  she 
is  whom  they  are  giving  up,  the  other  in  order 
that  they  may  guard  her.  Why  disgracest  thou 
the  virgin  estate  ?  For  if  thou  art  such  as  this, 
the  same  will  the  bridegroom  suspect  her  to  be. 
If  thou  wishest  to  have  men  in  love  with  thee, 
this  is  the  part  of  saleswomen,  green-grocers, 
and  handicrafts-people.  Is  not  this  a  shame? 
To  act  unseemly  is  a  shame  even  though  it  be  a 
king's  daughter.2  For  doth  her  poverty  stand 
in  the  way?  or  her  course  of  life?     Even  if  a 

1  9a\afioK,  which  is  used  for  any  retired  chamber. 
*  i.e.  at  whose  wedding  it  is  done. 


virgin  be  a  slave,  let  her  abide  in  modesty. 
"  For  in  Christ  Jesus  there  can  be  neither  bond 
nor  free."     (Gal.  iii.  28.) 

What?  is  marriage  a  theater?  It  is  a  mystery 
and  a  type  of  a  mighty  thing ;  and  even  if  thou 
reverence  not  it,  reverence  that  whose  type  it  is. 
"  This  mystery,"  saith  he,  "  is  great,  but  I  speak 
in  regard  of  Christ  and  of  the  Church."  (Eph. 
v.  32.)  It  is  a  type  of  the  Church,  and  of 
Christ,  and  dost  thou  introduce  harlots  at  it? 
If  then,  saith  one,  neither  virgins  dance,  nor  the 
married,  who  is  to  dance?  No  one,  for  what 
need  is  there  of  dancing?  In  the  Grecian  mys- 
teries there  are  dancings,  but  in  ours,  silence 
and  decency,  modesty,  and  bashfulness.  A  great 
mystery  is  being  celebrated  :  forth  with  the  har- 
lots !  forth  with  the  profane  !  How  is  it  a  mys- 
tery ?  They  come  together,  and  the  two  make 
one.  Wherefore  is  it  that  at  his  entrance  indeed, 
there  was  no  dancing,  no  cymbals,  but  great 
silence,  great  stillness ;  but  when  they  come  to- 
gether, making  not  a  lifeless  image,  nor  yet  the 
image  of  anything  upon  earth,  but  of  God  Him- 
self, and  after  his  likeness,  thou  introducest  so 
great  an  uproar,  and  disturbest  those  that  are 
there,3  and  puttest  the  soul  to  shame,  and  con- 
foundest  it?  They  come,  about  to  be  made  one 
body.  See  again  a  mystery  of  love  !  If  the  two 
become  not  one,  so  long  as  they  continue  two, 
they  make  not  many,  but  when  they  are  come 
into  oneness,  they  then  make  many.  What  do 
we  learn  from  this  ?  That  great  is  the  power  of 
union.  The  wise  counsel  of  God  at  the  begin- 
ning divided  the  one  into  two;  and  being 
desirous  of  showing  that  even  after  division  it 
remaineth  still  one,  He  suffered  not  that  the  one 
should  be  of  itself  enough  for  procreation.  For 
he  is  not  one  who  is  not  yet  [united,4]  but  the 
half  of  one ;  and  it  is  evident  from  this,  that 
he  begetteth  no  offspring,  as  was  the  case  also 
beforetime.5  Seest  thou  the  mystery  of  mar- 
riage? He  made  of  one,  one6;  and  again, 
having  made  these  two,  one,  He  so  maketh  one, 
so  that  now  also  man  is  produced  of  one.  For 
man  and  wife  are  not  two  men,  but  one  Man. 
And  this  may  be  confirmed  from  many  sources ; 
for  instance,  from  James,7  from  Mary  the 
Mother  of  Christ,  from  the  words,  "He  made 
them  male  and  female."     (Gen.  i.  27.)     If  he 

*  rove  bvra*.  Possibly  "  those  that  are  [that  image]."  Downes 
proposes  ovv6mast  with  some  probability. 

*  &  ov&s-w.  The  word  iJKwplroc,  which  Ed.  Par.  would  supply, 
may  be  understood. 

■  itaBawtp  Kai  wp6rtpov,  Downes  and  others  give  up  this  pas- 
sage as  corrupt.  The  Translator  suggests,  "  as  was  the  case  with 
Adam  before  Eve  was  formed."  There  is  still  a  difficulty,  though 
this  has  a  meaning,  in  that  God  withheld  the  power  then  from  the 
undivided  Man,  as  he  does  now  from  the  not  yet  reunited. 

*  i.e.  "  one  other."    Savile  needlessly  conjectures  '*  two." 

7  The  word  is  declined,  and  so  would  not  mean  Jacob.  One  MS. 
has  Joseph,  which  is  no  plainer.  [Three  MSS.  have  Joseph,  but 
they  are  the  group  of  three  that  are  so  often  palpably  altering.  — 
T.  A.  B.]  One  would  expect  a  solution  from  tne  end  of  Horn,  v., 
but  none  seems  to  occur  there,  unless  Jacob's  birth  after  Rebecca's 
long  barrenness  be  deemed  sufficient. 


Homily  XII.] 


HOMILIES  ON  COLOSSIANS. 


319 


be  the  head,  and  she  the  body,  how  are  they 
two  ?  Therefore  the  one  holdeth  the  rank  of  a 
disciple,  the  other  of  a  teacher,  the  one  of  a 
ruler,  the  other  of  a  subject.  Moreover,  from 
the  very  fashioning  of  her  body,  one  may  see 
that  they  are  one,  for  she  was  made  from  his 
side,  and  they  are,  as  it  were,  two  halves. 

For  this  cause  He  also  calleth  her  a  help,  to 
show  that  they  are  one  (Gen.  ii.  18) ;  for  this 
cause  He  honoreth  their  cohabitation  beyond 
both  father  and  mother,  to  show  that  they  are 
one.  (Gen.  ii.  24.)  And  in  like  manner  a 
father  rejoiceth  both  when  son  and  daughter 
marry,  as  though  the  body  were  hastening  to 
join  a  member  of  its  own  ;  and  though  so  great 
a  charge  and  expenditure  of  money  is  incurred, 
still  he  cannot  bear  with  indifference  to  see  her 1 
unmarried.  For  as  though  her  own  flesh  itself 
were  severed  from  her,  each  one  separately  is 
imperfect  for  the  procreation  of  children,  each 
one  is  imperfect  as  regards  the  constitution  of 
this  present  life.  Wherefore  also  the  Prophet 
saith,  "the  residue  of  thy  spirit"  (Mai.  ii.  15, 
Sept.)  And  how  become  they  one  flesh  ?  As 
if  thou  shouldest  take  away  the  purest  part  of 
gold,  and  mingle  it  with  other  gold  ;  so  in  truth 
here  also  the  woman  as  it  were  receiving  the 
richest  part  fused  by  pleasure,  nourisheth  it  and 
cherisheth  it,  and  withal  contributing  her  own 
share,  restoreth  it  back  a  Man.  And  the  child 
is  a  sort  of  bridge,  so  that  the  three  become  one 
flesh,  the  child  connecting,  on  either  side,  each 
to  other.  For  like  as  two  cities,  which  a  river 
divides  throughout,  become  one,  if  a  bridge 
connect  them  on  both  sides,  so  is  it  in  this  case ; 
and  yet  more,  when  the  very  bridge  in  this  case 
is  formed  of  the  substance  of  each.  As  the 
body  and  the  head  are  one  body ;  for  they  are 
divided  by  the  neck;  but  not  divided  more 
than  connected,  for  it,  lying  between  them, 
brings  together  each  with  the  other.  And  it  is 
the  same  as  if  a  chorus  that  had  been  severed 
should,  by  taking  one  part  of  itself  from  this 
quarter,  and  the  other  again  from  the  right, 
make  one;  or  as  these  when  come  into  close 
rank,  and  extending  hands,  become  one;  for 
the  hands  extended  admit  not  of  their  being 
two.  Therefore  to  wit  He  said  with  accuracy 
of  expression,  not  "  they  shall  be  one  flesh"  but 
joined  together  "  into  one  flesh  "  (Gen.  ii.  2, 
Sept.),  namely,  that  of  the  child.  What  then? 
when  there  is  no  child,  will  they  not  be  two? 
Nay,  for  their  coming  together  hath  this  effect, 
it  diffuses  and  commingles  the  bodies  of  both. 
And  as  one  who  hath  cast  ointment  into  oil, 
hath  made  the  whole  one ;  so  in  truth  is  it  also 
here. 

I  know  that  many  are  ashamed  at  what  is  said, 

1  Implied  in  *irr§  below.    The  word  is  of  common  gender. 


and  the  cause  of  this  is  what  I  spoke  of,  your 
own  lasciviousness,  and  unchasteness.  The  fact 
of  marriages  being  thus  performed,  thus  de- 
praved, hath  gained  the  thing  an  ill  name :  for 
"  marriage  is  honorable,  and  the  bed  undefiled." 
(Heb.  xiii.  4.)  Why  art  thou  ashamed  of  the 
honorable,  why  blushest  thou  at  the  undefiled  ? 
This  is  for  heretics,'  this  is  for  such  as  introduce 
harlots  thither.  For  this  cause  I  am  desirous 
of  having  it  thoroughly  purified,  so  as  to  bring 
it  back  again  to  its  proper  nobleness,  so  as 
to  stop  the  mouths  of  the  heretics.  The  gift 
of  God  is  insulted,  the  root  of  our  generation ; 
for  about  that  root  there  is  much  dung  and  filth. 
This  then  let  us  cleanse  away  by  our  discourse. 
Endure  then  a  little  while,  for  he  that  holdeth 
filth  must  endure  the  stench.  I  wish  to  show 
you  that  ye  ought  not  to  be  ashamed  at  these 
things,  but  at  those  which  ye  do  ;  but  thou,  pass- 
ing by  all  shame  at  those,  art  ashamed  at  these ; 
surely  then  thou  condemnest  God  who  hath 
thus  decreed. 

Shall  I  tell  how  marriage  is  also  a  mystery  of 
the  Church?  As  Christ  came  into  the  Church, 
and  she  was  made  of  him,8  and  he  united  with 
her  in  a  spiritual  intercourse,  "  for,"  saith  one, 
"  I  have  espoused  you  to  one  husband,  a  pure 
virgin."  (2  Cor.  xi.  2.)  And  that  we  are  of 
Him,  he  saith,  of  His  members,  "  and  of  His 
flesh."  Thinking  then  on  all  these  things,  let  us 
not  cast  shame  upon  so  great  a  mystery.  Mar- 
riage is  a  type  of  the  presence  of  Christ,  and  art 
thou  drunken  at  it  ?  Tell  me ;  if  thou  sawest 
an  image  of  the  king,  wouldest  thou  dishonor 
it?    By  no  means. 

Now  the  practices  at  marriages  seem  to  be  a 
matter  of  indifference,  but  they  are  the  causes 
of  great  mischiefs.  All  is  full  of  lawlessness. 
"  Filthiness,  and  foolish  talking,  and  jesting,  let 
it  not  proceed,"  saith  he,  "  out  of  your  mouth," 
(Eph.  v.  4 ;  iv.  29.)  Now  all  these  things  are 
filthiness,  foolish  talking,  and  jesting;  and  not 
these  simply,  but  with  aggravation,  for  the  thing 
has  become  an  art,  and  there  are  great  praisei 
for  those  that  pursue  it.  Sins  have  become  an 
art !  We  pursue  them  not  in  any  chance  way, 
but  with  earnestness,  with  science,  and  thence- 
forth the  devil  takes  the  command  of  his  own 
array.  For  where  drunkenness  is,  there  is  un- 
chasteness :  where  filthy  talking,  there  the  devil 
is  at  hand  bringing  in  his  own  contributions; 
with  such  an  entertainment,  tell  me,  dost  thou 
celebrate  the  mystery  of  Christ  ?  and  invitest 
thou  the  devil  ?  * 

I  dare  say  you  consider  me  offensive.     For 

1 

*  On  1  Tim.  iv.  3  he  mentions  the  Manichees,  Marcionites,  and 
Encratites. 

3  [The  three  MSS.  which  so  often  alter  have  made  an  important 
alteration  here,  from  "she  was  made  of  him"  into  "  he  was  made  of 
her,"  and  this  became  the  common  printed  text.  Were  the  critics 
thinking  of  a  typical  relation  between  the  Virgin  Mary  and  the 
Church,  or  of  transubstantiation? — J.  A.  B.] 


320 


WORKS   OF   ST.    CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  XII. 


this  too  is  a  property  of  extreme  pervertedness, 
that  even  one  that  rebuketh  you  incurs  your 
ridicule  as  one  that  is  austere.  Hear  ye  not 
Paul,  saying,  "Whatsoever  ye  do,  whether  ye 
eat  or  drink  or  whatsoever  ye  do,  do  all  to  the 
glory  of  God  "  ?  (i  Cor.  x.  31.)  But  ye  do  all 
to  ill  report  and  dishonor.  Hear  ye  not  the 
Prophet,  saying,  "  Serve  the  Lord  with  fear,  and 
rejoice  unto  Him  with  trembling  ?  "  (  Ps.  ii.  11.) 
But  ye  are  wholly  without  restraint.1  Is  it  not 
possible  both  to  enjoy  pleasure,  and  to  do  so 
with  safety?  Art  thou  desirous  of  hearing  beau- 
tiful songs?  Best  of  all  indeed,  thou  oughtest 
not;  nevertheless,  I  condescend  if  thou  wilt 
have  it  so :  do  not  hear  those  Satanic  ones,  but 
the  spiritual.  Art  thou  desirous  of  seeing  choirs 
of  dancers?  Behold  the  choir  of  Angels.  And 
how  is  it  possible,  saith  one,  to  see  them?  If 
thou  drive  away  all  these  things,  even  Christ  will 
come  to  such  a  marriage,  and  Christ  being  pres- 
ent, the  choir  of  Angels  is  present  also.  If  thou 
wilt,  He  will  even  now  work  miracles  as  He  did 
then ;  He  will  make  even  now  the  water,  wine 
(John  ii.)  ;  and  what  is  much  more  wonderful, 
He  will  convert  this  unstable  and  dissolving 
pleasure,  this  cold  desire,  and  change  it  into  the 
spiritual.  This  is  to  make  of  water,  wine. 
Where  pipers  are,  by  no  means  there  is  Christ ; 
but  even  if  He  should  have  entered,  He  first 
casts  these  forth,2  and  then  He  works  His  won- 
ders. What  can  be  more  disagreeable  than  this 
Satanic  pomp  ?  where  everything  is  inarticulate, 
everything  without  significancy ;  and  if  there  be 
anything  articulate,  again  all  is  shameful,  all  is 
noisome. 

Nothing  is  more  pleasurable  than  virtue, 
nothing  sweeter  than  orderliness,  nothing  more 
amiable  than  gravity.  Let  any  celebrate  such  a 
marriage  as  I  speak  of;  and  he  shall  find  the 
pleasure  ;  but  what  sort  of  marriages  these  are, 
take  heed.  First  seek  a  husband  for  the  virgin, 
who  will  be  truly  a  husband,  and  a  protector ; 
as  though  thou  wert  intending  to  place  a  head 
upon  a  body;  as  though  about  to  give  not  a 
slave,  but  a  daughter  into  his  hands.  Seek  not 
money,  nor  splendor  of  family,  nor  greatness  of 
country;  all  these  things  are  superfluous;  but 
piety  of  soul,  gentleness,  the  true  understanding, 
the  fear  of  God,  if  thou  wishest  thy  darling  to 
live  with  pleasure.  For  if  thou  seek  a  wealthier 
husband,  not  only  wilt  thou  not  benefit  her, 
but  thou  wilt  even  harm  her,  by  making  her 
a  slave  instead  of  free.  For  the  pleasure  she 
will  reap  from  her  golden  trinkets  will  not 
be  so  great  as  will  be  the  annoyance  that  comes 
of  her  slavery.  I  pray  thee,  seek  not  these 
things,  but  most  of  all,  one  of  equal  condition ; 
if  however  this  cannot  be,  rather  one  poorer 

1  5iax«t*0«,  are  dissolute;  lit.  "  poured  abroad." 

9  As  when  He  would  raise  Jairus  s  daughter,  Matt.  be.  35. 


than  in  better  circumstances ;  if  at  least  thou 
be  desirous  not  of  selling  thy  daughter  to  a 
master,  but  of  giving  her  to  a  husband.  When 
thou  hast  thoroughly  investigated  the  virtue  of 
the  man,  and  art  about  to  give  her  to  him,  be- 
seech Christ  to  be  present :  for  He  will  not  be 
ashamed  to  be  so ;  it  is  the  mystery  of  His 
presence.  Yea  rather  beseech  Him  even  in 
the  first  instance,  to  grant  her  such  a  suitor. 
Be  not  worse  than  the  servant  of  Abraham,  who, 
when  sent  on  a  pilgrimage  so  important,  saw 
whither  he  ought  to  have  recourse ;  wherefore 
also  he  obtained  everything.  When  thou  art 
taking  anxious  pains,  and  seeking  a  husband 
for  her,  pray;  say  unto  God,  "whomsoever 
Thou  wilt  do  Thou  provide : "  into  His  hands 
commit  the  matter;  and  He,  honored  in  this 
way  by  thee,  will  requite  thee  with  honor. 

Two  things  indeed  it  is  necessary  to  do ;  to 
commit  the  thing  into  His  hands,  and  to  seek 
such  an  orderly  person  as  He  Himself  approves. 

When 8  then  thou  makest  a  marriage,  go  not 
round  from  house  to  house  borrowing  mirrors 
and  dresses ;  for  the  matter  is  not  one  of  dis- 
play, nor  dost  thou  lead  thy  daughter  to  a 
pageant ;  but  decking  out  thine  house  with 
what  is  in  it,  invite  thy  neighbors,  and  friends, 
and  kindred.  As  many  as  thou  knowest  to  be 
of  a  good  character,  those  invite,  and  bid  them 
be  content  with  what  there  is.  Let  no  one  from 
the  orchestra  be  present,  for  such  expense  is 
superfluous,  and  unbecoming.  Before  all  the 
rest,  invite  Christ.  Knowest  thou  whereby  thou 
wilt  invite  Him  ?  Whosoever,  saith  He,  "  hath 
done  it  to  one  of  these  least,  hath  done  it  to 
Me."  (Matt.  xxv.  40.)  And  think  it  not  an 
annoying  thing  to  invite  the  poor  for  Christ's 
sake;  to  invite  harlots  is  an  annoyance.  For 
to  invite  the  poor  is  a  means  of  wealth,  the 
other  of  ruin.  Adorn  the  bride  not  with  these 
ornaments  that  are  made  of  gold,  but  with  gen- 
tleness and  modesty,  and  the  customary  robes ; 
in  place  of  all  golden  ornament  and  braiding, 
arraying  her  in  blushes,  and  shamefacedness, 
and  the  not  desiring  such  things.  Let  there 
be  no  uproar,  no  confusion ;  let  the  bridegroom 
be  called,  let  him  receive  the  virgin.  The 
dinners  and  suppers,  let  them  not  be  full  of 
drunkenness,  but  of  abundance  and  pleasure. 
See  how  many  good  things  will  result,  whenever 
we  see  such  marriages  as  those ;  but  from  the 
marriages  that  are  now  celebrated,  (if  at  least 
one  ought  to  call  them  marriages  and  not  pa- 
geants,) how  many  are  the  evils  !  The  banquet 
hall  is  no  sooner  broken  up,  than  straightway 
comes  care  and  fear,  lest  aught  that  is  borrowed 
should  have  been  lost,  and  there  succeeds 
to  the  pleasure  melancholy  intolerable.  But 
this  distress   belongs   to  the  mother-in-law,  — ■ 

8  Here  he  addresses  the  mother,  all  the  participles  bat 


■I, 


why  does 
ic  testifies 

nl  t  infers 
ished  and 

Inn  in  I  ay  ; 
.■■minded, 
ntoflf,  he 

this,  and 

unto  ihe 


HOMILIES  OF  ST.  JOHN  CHRYSOSTOM, 


ARCHBISHOP   OF   CONSTANTINOPLE, 


ON    THE 


FIRST   EPISTLE    OF   ST.    PAUL   THE   APOSTLE 


TO  THE 


THESSALONIANS. 


HOMILY   I. 


I    THESSALONIANS   i.    I-3. 


"  Paul,  and  Silvanus,  and  Timothy,  unto  the  Church  of  the 
Thessalonians  in  God  the  Father  and  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ :  Grace  to  you,  and  peace.1  We  give  thanks 
to  God  always  for  you  all,  making  mention  of  you  in 
our  prayers;  remembering  without  ceasing  your 
work  of  faith  and  labor  of  love  and  patience  of 
hope  in  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  before  our  God  and 
Father." 


Wherefore  then,  when  writing  to  the  Ephe- 
sians,*  and  having  Timothy  with  him,  did  he  not 
include  him  with  himself  (in  his  salutation), 
known  as  he  was  to  them  and  admired,  for  he 
says,  "  Ye  know  the  proof  of  him,  that  as  a  child 
serveth  the  father,  so  he  served  with  me  in  the 
Gospel"  (Phil.  ii.  22)  ;  and  again,  "I  have  no 
man  like-minded  who  will  care  truly  for  your 
state  "  (ver.  20)  ;  but  here  he  does  associate  him 
with  himself?  It  seems  to  me,  that  he  was 
about  to  send  him  immediately,  and  it  was 
superfluous  for  him  to  write,  who  would  over- 
take the  letter.  For  he  says,  "  Him  therefore  I 
hope  to  send  forthwith."  (Phil.  ii.  23.)  But 
here  it  was  not  so ;  but  he  had  just  returned  to 
him,  so  that  he  naturally  joined  in  the  letter. 
For  he  says,  "  Now  when  Timothy  came  from 

1  [Some  MSS.  and  editions  add,  "from  God  our  Father,  and  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ,"  as  it  is  added  in  Text.  Rec.  of  the  N.  T. — 
J.  A.  B. J 

1  This  mistake  cannot  be  charged  on  the  transcribers,  as  Timo- 
thy is  mentioned  in  Phil.  i.  z  [and  it  is  Philippians  that  he  proceeds 
to  quote  from.— J.  A.  B.]. 


you  unto  us."  (1  Thess.  iii.  6.)  But  why  doe 
he  place  Silvanus  before  him,8  though  he  testifie 
to  his  numberless  good  qualities,  and  prefer 
him  above  all?  Perhaps  Timothy  wished  an< 
requested  him  to  do  so  from  his  great  humility 
for  when  he  saw  his  teacher  so  humble- minded 
as  to  associate  his  disciple  with  himself,  h 
would  much  the  more  have  desired  this,  ant 
eagerly  sought  it.     For  he  says, 

"  Paul,  and  Silvanus,  and  Timothy,  unto  thi 
Church  of  the  Thessalonians."  Here  he  give 
himself  no  title  —  not  "an  Apostle,"  not  "; 
Servant " ;  I  suppose,  because  the  men  wer< 
newly  instructed,  and  had  not  yet  had  any  ex 
perience  of  him,4  he  does  not  apply  the  title 
and  it  was  as  yet  the  beginning  of  his  preachinj 
to  them. 

"To  the  Church  of  the  Thessalonians,"  to 
says.  And  well.  For  it  is  probable  there  wen 
few,  and  they  not  yet  formed  into  a  body ;  01 
this  account  he  consoles  them  with  the  name  o: 
the  Church.  For  where  much  time  had  passed 
and  the  congregation  of  the  Church  was  large 
he  does  not  apply  this  term.  But  because  thi 
name  of  the  Church  is  for  the  most  part  a  nam* 

*  [The  natural  explanation  is  that  Silas  was  an  older  man,  Time 
thy  being  at  the  time  of  writing  x  Thess.  (prob.  a.d.  53)  quite  youm 
and  indeed  still  noticeably  young  a  dozen  years  later  (1  Tim.  iv.  zaj 
Chrys.  seems  to  have  made  no  systematic  study  of  the  chronology  < 
the  Epistles.  —J.  A.  B.l 

"ofi 


4  ttvrow,  perhaps  "  of  the  thing. 


3^4 


WORKS   OF   ST.    CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  I. 


of  multitude,  and  of  a  system l  now  compacted, 
on  this  account  he  calls  them  by  that  name. 

"  In  God  the  Father,"  he  says,  "  and  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ."  "  Unto  the  Church  of  the 
Thessalonians,"  he  says,  "which  is  in  God." 
Behold  again  the  expression,  "in,"2  applied 
both  to  the  Father  and  to  the  Son.  For  there 
were  many  assemblies,3  both  Jewish  and  Grecian  ; 
but  he  says,  "  to  the  (Church)  that  is  in  God." 
It  is  a  great  dignity,  and  to  which  there  is 
nothing  equal,  that  it  is  "  in  God."  God  grant 
therefore  that  this  Church  may  be  so  addressed  ! 
But  I  fear  that  it  is  far  from  that  appellation. 
For  if  any  one  were  the  servant  of  sin,  he  cannot 
be  said  to  be  "in  God."  If  any  one  walks  not 
according  to  God,  he  cannot  be  said  to  be  "  in 
God."4 

"  Grace  be  unto  you,  and  peace." 5  Do  you 
perceive  that  the  very  commencement  of  his 
Epistle  is  with  encomiums  ?  "  We  give  thanks 
to  God  always  for  you  all,  making  mention  of 
you  in  our  prayers."  For  to  give  thanks  to  God 
for  them  is  the  act  of  one  testifying  to  their  great 
advancement,  when  they  are  not  only  praised 
themselves,  but  God  also  is  thanked  for  them,  as 
Himself  having  done  it  all.  He  teaches  them 
also  to  be  moderate,  all  but  saying,  that  it  is  all 
of  the  power  of  God.  That  he  gives  thanks  for 
them,  therefore,  is  on  account  of  their  go<*i  con- 
duct, but  that  he  remembers  them  in  his  prayers, 
proceeds  from  his  love  towards  them.  Then  as 
he  often  does,  he  says  that  he  not  only  remem- 
bers them  in  his  prayers,  but  apart  from  his 
prayers.  "Remembering  without  ceasing,"  he 
says,  "  your  work  of  faith  and  labor  of  love  and 
patience  of  hope  in  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  be- 
fore our  God  and  Father."  What  is  remember- 
ing without  ceasing  ?  Either  remembering  before 
God  and  the  Father,  or  remembering  your  labor 
of  love  that  is  before  God  and  the  Father,  or 
simply,  "Remembering  you  without  ceasing." 
Then  again,  that  you  may  not  think  that  this 
"  remembering  you  without  ceasing  "  is  said 
simply,  he  has  added,  "  before  our  God  and 
Father."  And  because  no  one  amongst  men 
was  praising  their  actions,  no  one  giving  them 
any  reward,  he  says  this,  "You  labor  before 
God."  What  is  "the  work  of  faith"?  That 
nothing  has  turned  aside  your  steadfastness. 
For  this  is  the  work  of  faith.  If  thou  believest, 
suffer  all  things ;  if  thou  dost  not  suffer,  thou 
dost  not  believe.    For  are  not  the  things  prom- 


1  [Here  the  same  Greek  word  (systema)  is  translated  "  body," 
"  congregation,"  and  **  system."  —  J.  A.  B.Y 

*  [Most  editions  have  "  the  word  God,  and  one  MS.  has  "  in 
God,  both  obviously  alterations,  and  really  unsuitable  to  the  con- 
nection.—  J.  A.  B.l 

3  ckkAiioicu.  Churches,  or  assemblies.  New  converts  would  be 
more  familiar  with  the  word  in  its  secular  sense. 

4  [Most  editions  omit  this  sentence,  but  it  is  found  in  several 
MSS.,  and  the  amplification  is  quite  after  the  manner  of  Chrys. — 
J.  A.  B.] 

*  [This  seems  to  belong  (as  Hales  suggested)  after  the  next  sen- 
tence, which  is  a  remark  upon  the  foregoing.  — J.  A.  B.] 


ised  such,  that  he  who  believes  would  choose  to 
suffer  even  ten  thousand  deaths  ?  The  kingdom 
of  heaven  is  set  before  him,  and  immortality, 
and  eternal  life.  He  therefore  who  believes 
will  suffer  all  things.  Faith  then  is  shown  through 
his  works.  Justly  might  one  have  said,  not 
merely  did  you  believe,  but  through  your  works 
you  manifested  it,  through  your  steadfastness, 
through  your  zeal. 

And  your  labor  "of  love."  Why?  what  labor 
is  it  to  love  ?  Merely  to  love  is  no  labor  at  all. 
But  to  love  genuinely  is  great  labor.  For  tell 
me,  when  a  thousand  things  are  stirred  up  that 
would  draw  us  from  love,  and  we  hold  out  against 
them  all,  is  it  not  labor?  For  what  did  not  these 
men  suffer,  that  they  might  not  revolt  from  their 
love?  Did  not  they  that  warred  against  the 
Preaching  go  to  Paul's  host,  and  not  having 
found  him,  drag  Jason  before  the  rulers  of  the 
city?  (Acts  xvii.  5,  6.)  Tell  me,  is  this  a 
slight  labor,  when  the  seed  had  not  yet  taken 
root,  to  endure  so  great  a  storm,  so  many  trials? 
And  they  demanded  security  of  him.  And  hav- 
ing given  security,  he  says,  Jason  sent  away 
Paul.6  Is  this  a  small  thing,  tell  me  ?  Did  not 
Jason  expose  himself  to  danger  for  him?  and 
this  he  calls  a  labor  of  love,  because  they  were 
thus  bound  to  him. 

And  observe :  first  he  mentions  their  good 
actions,  then  his  own,  that  he  may  not  seem  to 
boast,  nor  yet  to  love  them  by  anticipation.7 
"  And  patience,"  he  says.  For  that  persecution 
was  not  confined  to  one  time,  but  was  continual, 
and  they  warred  not  only  with  Paul,  the  teacher, 
but  with  his  disciples  also.  For  if  they  were 
thus  affected  towards  those  who  wrought  mira- 
cles, those  venerable  men  ;  what  think  you  were 
their  feelings  towards  those  who  dwelt  among 
them,  their  fellow-citizens,  who  had  all  of  a  sud- 
den revolted  from  them  ?  Wherefore  this  also  he 
testifies  of  them,  saying, "  For  ye  became  imitators 
of  the  Churches  of  God  which  are  in  Judaea." 

"  And  of  hope,"  he  says,  "  in  our  Lord  Jesus 
Christ,  before  our  God  and  Father."  For  all 
these  things  proceed  from  faith  and  hope,  so 
that  what  happened  to  them  showed  not  their 
fortitude  only,  but  that  they  believed  with  full 
assurance  in  the  rewards  laid  up  for  them.  For 
on  this  account  God  permitted  that  persecutions 
should  arise  immediately,  that  no  one  might  say, 
that  the  Preaching  was  established  lightly  or  by 
flattery,  and  that  their  fervor  might  be  shown,  and 
that  it  was  not  human  persuasion,  but  the  power 
of  God,  that  persuaded  the  souls  of  the  be- 
lievers, so  that  they  were  prepared  even  for  ten 
thousand  deaths,  which  would  not  have  been 
the  case,  if  the  Preaching  had  not  immediately 
been  deeply  fixed  and  remained  unshaken. 

6  See  Acts  xvii.  9. 

7  irpoAiji^ct.    Assuming  good  of  them  before  trial. 


* 


Homily  I.] 


HOMILIES   ON  THESSALONIANS. 


325 


Ver.  4,  5.  "  Knowing,  brethren  beloved  of 
God,  your  election,  how  that  our  Gospel  came 
not  unto  you  in  word  only,  but  also  in  power, 
and  in  the  Holy  Ghost,  and  in  much  assurance ; 
even  as  ye  know  what  manner  of  men  we  showed 
ourselves  among *  you  for  your  sake." 

Knowing  what  ?  How  "  we  showed  ourselves 
among  you  "  ?  Here  he  also  touches  upon  his 
own  good  actions,  but  covertly.  For  he  wishes 
first  to  enlarge  upon  their  praises,  and  what  he 
says  is  something  of  this  sort.  I  knew  that  you 
were  men  of  great  and  noble  sort,  that  you  were 
of  the  Elect.  For  this  reason  we  also  endure 
all  things  for  your  sake.  For  this,  "  what  man- 
ner of  men  we  showed  ourselves  among  you,"  is 
the  expression  of  one  showing  that  with  much 
zeal  and  much  vehemence  we  were  ready  to 
give  up  our  lives  for  your  sake ;  and  for  this 
thanks  are  due  not  to  us,  but  to  you,  because  ye 
were  elect.  On  this  account  also  he  says  else- 
where, "  And  these  things  I  endure  for  the 
Elect's  sake."  (2  Tim.  ii.  10.)  For  what 
would  not  one  endure  for  the  sake  of  God's 
beloved  ones?  And  having  spoken  of  his  own 
part,  he  all  but  says,  For  if  you  were  both 
beloved  and  elect,  we  suffer  all  things  with  rea- 
son. For  not  only  did  his  praise  of  them  con- 
firm them,  but  his  reminding  them  that  they  too 
themselves  had  displayed  a  fortitude  correspond- 
ing to  their  zeal :  he  says, 

Ver.  6.  "  And  ye  became  imitators  of  us,  and 
of  the  Lord,  having  received  the  word  in  much 
affliction,  with  joy  of  the  Holy  Ghost." 

Strange  !  what  an  encomium  is  here  !  The 
disciples  have  suddenly  become  teachers  !  They 
not  only  heard  the  word,  but  they  quickly  arrived 
at  the  same  height  with  Paul.  But  this  is  noth- 
ing ;  for  see  how  he  exalts  them,  saying,  "  Ye 
became  imitators  of  the  Lord."  How  ?  "  Hav- 
ing received  the  word  in  much  affliction,  with 
joy  of  the  Holy  Ghost."  Not  merely  with  afflic- 
tion, but  with  much  affliction.  And  this  we  may 
learn  from  the  Acts  of  the  Apostles,  how  they 
raised  a  persecution  against  them.  (Acts  xvii. 
5-8.)  And  they  troubled  all  the  rulers  of  the 
city,  and  they  instigated  the  city  against  them. 
And  it  js  not  enough  to  say,  ye  were  afflicted 
indeed,  and  believed,  and  that  grieving,  but  even 
rejoicing.  Which  also  the  Apostles  did  :  "  Re- 
joicing," it  is  said,  "that  they  were  counted 
worthy  to  suffer  dishonor  for  the  Name."  (Acts 
v.  4 1 . )  For  it  is  this  that  is  admirable.  Although 
neither  is  that  a  slight  matter,  in  any  way  to  bear 
afflictions.  But  this  now  was  the  part  of  men 
surpassing  human  nature,  and  having,  as  it  were, 
a  body  incapable  of  suffering. 

But  how  were  they  imitators  of  the  Lord? 


1  [It  b  very  doubtful  whether  Rev.  Ver.  of  N.  T.  is  here  right  in 
omitting  iv  (as  in  ii.  10),  and  so  translating  "  towards."  Chrys.  has 
the  ir,  and  so  must  betr.  "  among." — J.  A.  B.] 


Because  He  also  endured  many  sufferings,  but 
rejoiced.  For  He  came  to  this  willingly.  For 
our  sakes  He  emptied  Himself.  He  was  about 
to  be  spit  upon,  to  be  beaten  and  crucified,  and 
He  so  rejoiced  in  suffering  these  things,  that  He 
said  to  the  Father,  "  Glorify  Me."      (John  xvii. 

i-5.) 
"  With  joy  of  the  Holy  Ghost,"  he  says.   That 

no  one  may  say,  how  speakest  thou  of  "  afflic- 
tion "  ?  how  "  of  joy  "  ?  how  can  both  meet  in 
one?  he  has  added,  "with  joy  of  the  Holy 
Ghost."  The  affliction  is  in  things  bodily,  and 
the  joy  in  things  spiritual.  How?  The  things 
which  happened  to  them  were  grievous,  but  not 
so  the  things  which  sprang  out  of  them,  for  the 
Spirit  does  not  allow  it.2  So  that  it  is  possible 
both  for  him  who  suffers,  not  to  rejoice,  when 
one  suffers  for  his  sins;  and  being  beaten  to 
take  pleasure,  when  one  suffers  for  Christ's  sake. 
For  such  is  the  joy  of  the  Spirit.  In  return  for 
the  things  which  appear  to  be  grievous,  it  brings 
out  delight.  They  have  afflicted  you,  he  says, 
and  persecuted  you,  but  the  Spirit  did  not  for- 
sake you,  even  in  those  circumstances.  As  the 
Three  Children  in  the  fire  were  refreshed  with 
dew,8  so  also  were  you  refreshed  in  afflictions. 
But  as  there  it  was  not  of  the  nature  of  the  fire 
to  sprinkle  dew,  but  of  the  4<  whistling  wind,"  4 
so  also  here  it  was  not  of  the  nature  of  affliction 
to  produce  joy,  but  of  the  suffering  for  Christ's 
sake,  and  of  the  Spirit  bedewing  them,  and  in 
the  furnace  of  temptation  setting  them  at  ease. 
Not  merely  with  joy,  he  says,  but  "  with  much 
joy."     For  this  is  of  the  Holy  Spirit. 

Ver.  7.  "  So  that  ye  became  ensamples5  to  all 
that  believe  in  Macedonia  and  Achaia." 

And  yet  it  was  later  that  he  went  to  them. 
But  ye  so  shone,  he  says,  that  ye  became  teach- 
ers of  those  who  received  (the  word)  before  you. 
And  this  is  like  the  Apostle.  For  he  did  not 
say,  so  that  ye  became  ensamples  in  regard  to 
believing,  but  ye  became  an  ensample  to  those 
who  already  believed  ;  how  one  ought  to  believe 
in  God,  ye  taught,  who  from  the  very  beginning 
entered  into  your  conflict. 

"  And  in  Achaia,"  he  says ;  that  is,  in  Greece. 

Do  you  see  how  great  a  thing  is  zeal  ?  that  it 
does  not  require  time,  nor  delay,  nor  procrasti- 
nation, but  it  is  sufficient  only  to  venture  one's 
self,  and  all  is  fulfilled.  Thus  then  though  com- 
ing in  later  to  the  Preaching,  they  became  teach- 
ers of  those  who  were  before  them. 

Moral.  Let  no  one  therefore  despair,  even 
though  he  has  lost  much  time,  and  has  done 
nothing.     It  is  possible  for  him  even  in  a  little 

9  ovk  a^tipri.    Perhaps,  "  does  not  forsake  us/'  as  just  below. 

*  Song,  ver.  27. 

4  BuurvpiCorrot,  as  Sept.  Dan.  iii.  28. 

•  [Rev.  Ver.  right  for  N.  T.,  "an  ensample";  but  Chrys. has 
the  plural,  employing  (as  he  commonly  does)  that  which  spread 
from  Constantinople,  and  became  the  prevalent  text. — J.  A.  B.] 


326 


WORKS   OF   ST.    CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  I. 


while  to  do  so  much,  as  he  never  has  done  in  all 
his  former  time.  For  if  he  who  before  did  not 
believe,  shone  so  much  at  the  beginning,  how 
much  more  those  who  have  already  believed  ! 
Let  no  one,  again,  upon  this  consideration  be  re- 
miss, because  he  perceives  that  it  is  possible  in 
a  short  time  to  recover  everything.  For  the  fut- 
ure is  uncertain,  and  the  Day  of  the  Lord  is  a 
thief,  setting  upon  us  suddenly  when  we  are 
sleeping.  But  if  we  do  not  sleep,  it  will  not  set 
upon  us  as  a  thief,  nor  carry  us  off  unprepared. 
For  if  we  watch  and  be  sober,  it  will  not  set 
upon  us  as  a  thief,  but  as  a  royal  messenger, 
summoning  us  to  the  good  things  prepared  for 
us.  But  if  we  sleep,  it  comes  upon  us  as  a  thief. 
Let  no  one  therefore  sleep,  nor  be  inactive  in 
virtue,  for  that  is  sleep.  Do  you  not  know  how, 
when  we  sleep,  our  goods  are  not  in  safety,  how 
easy  they  are  to  be  plotted  against  ?  But  when 
we  are  awake,  there  needs  not  so  much  guard- 
ing. When  we  sleep,  even  with  much  guarding 
we  often  perish.  There  are  doors,  and  bolts,  and 
guards,  and  outer  guards,  and  the  thief  has 
come  upon  us. 

Why  then  do  I  say  this  ?  Because,  if  we  wake 
we  shall  not  need  the  help  of  others ;  but  if  we 
sleep,  the  help  of  others  will  profit  us  nothing, 
but  even  with  this  we  perish.  It  is  a  good  thing 
to  enjoy  the  prayer  of  the  Saints,  but  it  is  when 
we  ourselves  also  are  on  the  alert.  And  what 
need,  you  say,  have  I  of  another's  prayer,  if  I  am 
on  the  alert  myself.  And  in  sooth,  do  not  place 
yourself  in  a  situation  to  need  it ;  I  do  not  wish 
that  you  should ;  but  we  are  always  in  need  of 
it,  if  we  think  rightly.  Paul  did  not  say,  what 
need  have  I  of  prayer  ?  and  yet  those  who 
prayed  were  not  worthy  of  him,1  or  rather  not 
equal  to  him ;  and  you  say,  what  need  have  I  of 
prayer?  Peter  did  not  say,  What  need  have  I  of 
prayer,  for  "  prayer,"  it  says,  "  was  made  ear- 
nestly of  the  Church  unto  God  for  him."  (Acts 
xii.  5.)  And  thou  sayest,  What  need  have  I  of 
prayer?  On  this  account  thou  needest  it,  be- 
cause thou  thinkest  that  thou  hast  no  need. 
Yea,  though  thou  become  as  Paul,  thou  hast  need 
of  prayer.  Do  not  exalt  thyself,  lest  thou  be 
humbled. 

But,  as  I  said,  if  we  be  active  also  ourselves, 
the  prayers  for  us  avail  too.  Hear  Paul  saying, 
"  For  I  know  that  this  shall  turn  to  my  salvation, 
through  your  supplication,  and  the  supply  of  the 
Spirit  of  Jesus  Christ.',  (Phil.  i.  19.)  And 
again,  "  That  for  the  gift  bestowed  upon  us  by 
means  of  many,  thanks  may  be  given  by  many 
persons  on  our  behalf.,,  (2  Cor.  i.  11.)  And 
thou  sayest,  what  need  have  I  of  prayer?  But 
if  we  be  idle,  no  one  will  be  able  to  profit  us. 
What  did  Jeremiah  profit  the  Jews  ?  Did  he  not 
thrice  draw  nigh  to  God,  and  the  third   time 

1  i.e.  worthy  to  pray  for  him. 


hear,  "  Pray  not  thou  for  this  people,  neither 
lift  up  cry  nor  prayer,  for  I  will  not  hear  thee  "  ? 
(Jer.  vii.  16.)  What  did  Samuel  profit  Saul? 
Did  he  not  mourn  for  him  even  to  his  last  day, 
and  not  merely  pray  for  him  only  ?  What  did  he 
profit  the  Israelites?  Did  he  not  say,  "God  for- 
bid that  I  sjiould  sin  in  ceasing  to  pray  for  you  "  ? 
(1  Sam.  xii.  23.)  Did  they  not  all  perish?  Do 
prayers  then,  you  say,  profit  nothing?  They 
profit  even  greatly :  but  it  is  when  we  also  do 
something.  For  prayers  indeed  cooperate  and 
assist,  but  a  man  cooperates  with  one2  that  is 
operating,  and  assists  one  that  is  himself  also 
working.  But  if  thou  remainest  idle,  thou  wilt 
receive  no  great  benefit. 

For  if  prayers  had  power  to  bring  us  to  the 
kingdom  while  we  do  nothing,  why  do  not  all 
the  Greeks  become  Christians?  Do  we  not 
pray  for  all  the  world  ?  Did  not  Paul  also  do 
this?  Do  we  not  intreat  that  all  may  be  con- 
verted ?  Why  do  not  the  wicked  become  good 
without  contributing  anything  of  themselves? 
Prayers,  then,  profit  greatly,  when  we  also  con- 
tribute our  own  parts. 

Would  you  learn  how  much  prayers  have  prof- 
ited ?  consider,  I  pray,  Cornelius,  Tabitha.  (Acts 
x.  3  and  ix.  36.)  Hear  also  Jacob  saying  to 
Laban,  "  Except  the  Fear  of  my  father  had  been 
with  me,  surely  thou  hadst  now  sent  me  away 
empty."  (Gen.  xxxi.  42.)  Hear  also  God  again, 
saying, "  I  will  defend  this  city  for  Mine  own  sake, 
and  for  My  servant  David's  sake."  (2  Kings 
ix.  34.)  But  when  ?  In  the  time  of  Hezekiah, 
who  was  righteous.  Since  if  prayers  availed  even 
for  the  extremely  wicked,  why  did  not  God  say 
this  also  when  Nebuchadnezzar  came,  and  «why 
did  He  give  up  the  city?  Because  wickedness 
availed  more.  Again,  Samuel  himself  also  prayed 
for  the  Israelites,  and  prevailed.  But  when? 
When  they  also  pleased  God,  then  they  put  their 
enemies  to  flight.  And  what  need,  you  say,  of 
prayer  from  another,  when  I  myself  please  God  ? 
Never,  O  man,  say  this.  There  is  need,  aye, 
and  need  of  much  prayer.  For  hear  God  saying 
concerning  the  friends  of  Job;  "And  he  shall 
pray  for  you,  and  your  sin  shall  be  forgiven  you."8 
(Job  xlii.  8.)  Because  they  had  sinned  indeed, 
but  not  a  great  sin.  But  this  just  man,  who  then 
saved  his  friends  by  prayer,  in  the  season  of  the 
Jews  was  not  able  to  save  the  Jews  who  were 
perishing.  And  that  you  may  learn  this,  hear 
God  saying  through  the  prophet ;  "  If  Noah, 
Daniel,  and  Job  stood,  they  shall  not  deliver 
their  sons  and  their  daughters."  (Ezek.  xiv. 
14,  16.)  Because  wickedness  prevailed.  And 
again,  "  Though  Moses  and  Samuel  stood." 
(Jer.  xv.  1.) 

And  see  how  this  is  said  to  the  two  Prophets, 

9  So  B.    Edd.  om.  one,  &c. 

*  [Quoting  from  memory.    So  below.— J.  A.  B.] 


Homily  II.] 


HOMILIES   ON  THESSALONIANS. 


327 


because  both  prayed  for  them,  and  did  not  pre- 
vail. For  Ezekiel  says,  "Ah  Lord,  dost  thou 
blot  out  the  residue  of  Israel?"  (Ezek.  ix.  8.) 
Then  showing  that  He  does  this  justly,  He  shows 
him  their  sins;  and  showing  that  not  through 
despising  him  does  He  refuse  to  accept  his  sup- 
plication for  them,  he  says,  Even  thf  se  things 
are  enough  even  to  persuade  thee,  that  not  de- 
spising thee,  but  on  account  of  their  many  sins, 
I  do  not  accept  thy  supplication.  Neverthe- 
less He  adds,  "  Though  Noah,  Job,  and  Daniel 
stood."  (From  Ezek.  xiv.)  And  with  good 
reason  does  He  the  rather  say  this  to  him,  be- 
cause it  is  he  who  suffered  so  many  things.  Thou 
badest  me,  he  says,  eat  upon  dung,  and  I  ate 
upon  it1  Thou  badest  me,  and  I  shaved  my 
head.  Thou  badest  me,  and  I  lay  upon  one 
side.  Thou  badest  me  go  out  through  a  hole 
in  the  wall,  bearing  a  burden,  and  I  went  out. 
Thou  tookest  away  my  wife,  and  badest  me  not 
mourn,  and  I  did  not  mourn,  but  bore  it  with 
fortitude.  (Ezek.  xxiv.  18.)  Ten  thousand 
other  things  have  I  wrought  for  their  sake :  I 
entreat  for  them,  and  dost  Thou  not  comply? 
Not  from  despising  thee,  says  he,  do  I  do  this,  but 
though  Noah,  Job,  and  Daniel  were  there,  and 
were  entreating  for  sons  and  daughters,  I  would 
not  comply. 

And  again  to  Jeremiah,  who  suffered  less  from 
the  commandments  of  God,  but  more  from  their 
wickedness,  what  does  He  say  ?  "  Seest  thou 
not  what  these  do?"  (Jer.  vii.  17.)  "Yea," 
he  says,  "they  do  so  —  but  do  Thou  do  it  for 
my  sake."  On  this  account  He  says  to  him, 
"Though  Moses  and  Samuel  stood."    Their  first 


lawgiver,  who  often  delivered  them  from  dan- 
gers, who  had  said,  "  If  now  thou  forgivest  their 
sins,  forgive  it ;  but  if  not,  blot  me  out  also." 
(Ex.  xxxii.  32,  Sept.)  If  therefore  he  were 
now  alive,  and  spoke  thus,  he  would  not  have 
prevailed,  —  nor  would  Samuel,  again,  who  him- 
self also  delivered  them,  and  who  from  his  earli- 
est youth  was  admired.  For  to  the  former  indeed 
I  said,  that  I  conversed  with  him  as  a  friend  with 
a  friend,  and  not  by  dark  sayings.  And  of  the 
latter  I  said,  that  in  his  first  youth  I  was  revealed 
to  him,  and  that  on  his  account,  being  prevailed 
upon,  I  opened  the  prophecy  that  had  been  shut 
up.  For  "  the  word  of  the  Lord,"  it  is  said, 
"  was  precious  in  those  days ;  there  was  no  open 
vision."  (1  Sam.  iii.  1.)  If  these  men,  there- 
fore, stood  before  Me,  they  would  profit  nothing. 
And  of  Noah  He  says,  "  Noah  was  a  righteous 
man,  and  perfect  in  his  generations."  (Gen. 
vi.  9.)  And  concerning  Job,  He  was  "  blame- 
less, just,  true,  fearing  God."  (Job  i.  1,  Sept.) 
And  concerning  Daniel,  whom  they  even  thought 
a  God ;  and  they  will  not  deliver,  says  he,  their 
sons  and  daughters.  Knowing  these  things,  there- 
fore, let  us  neither  despise  the  prayers  of  the 
Saints,  nor  throw  everything  upon,  them :  that 
we  may  not,  on  the  one  hand,  be  indolent  and 
live  carelessly;  nor  on  the  other  deprive  our- 
selves of  a  great  advantage.  But  let  us  both 
beseech  them  to  pray  and  lift  up  the  hand  for 
us,  and  let  us  adhere  to  virtue ;  that  we  may 
be  able  to  obtain  the  blessings  promised  to 
those  who  love  Him  by  the  grace  and  loving- 
kindness  of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  with  whom, 
&c. 


HOMILY    II. 


1  Thessalonians  i.  8-10. 


"  For  from  you  hath  sounded  forth  the  word  of  the  Lord, 
not  only  in  Macedonia  and  Achaia,  but  also  in 
every  place  your  faith  to  God-ward  is  gone  forth; 
so  that  we  need  not  to  speak  anything.  For  they 
themselves  report  concerning  us  what  manner  of 
entering  in  we  had  unto  you;  and  how  ye  turned 
unto  God  from  idols,  to  serve  a  living  and  true  God, 
and  to  wait  for  His  Son  from  Heaven,  whom  He 
raised  from  the  dead,  even  Jesus,  which  delivereth 
us  from  the  wrath  to  come." 

As  a  sweet- smelling  ointment  keeps  not  its 
fragrance  shut  up  in  itself,  but  diffuses  it  afar, 
and  scenting  the  air  with  its  perfume,  so  con- 
veys it  also  to  the  senses  of  the  neighbors ;  so 
too  illustrious  and  admirable  men  do  not  shut 

1  i.e.  food  baked  on  it.    Ezek.  iv.  xs,  1$. 


up  their  virtue  within  themselves,  but  by  then- 
good  report  benefit  many,  and  render  them 
better.  Which  also  then  happened.  Where- 
fore he  said,  "  So  that  ye  became  ensamples  to 
all  that  believe  in  Macedonia  and  Achaia."  "  For 
from  you,"  he  says,  "hath  sounded  forth  the 
word  of  the  Lord,  not  only  in  Macedonia  and 
Achaia,  but  also  in  every  place  your  faith  to 
God-ward  is  gone  forth."  Ye  have  filled,  there- 
fore, all  your  neighbors  with  instruction,  and 
the  world  with  wonder.  For  this  is  meant  by 
the  expression,  "  in  every  place."  And  he  has 
not  said,  your  faith  is  noised  abroad,  but  "  has 
sounded  out " ;  as  every  place  near  is  filled 
with  the  sound  of  a  loud  trumpet,  so  the  report 


328 


WORKS   OF   ST.   CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  IL 


of  your  manfulness  is  loud,  and  sounding  even 
like  that,  is  sufficient  to  fill  the  world,  and  to  fall 
with  equal  sound  upon  all  that  are  round  about 
For  great  actions  are  more  loudly  celebrated 
there,  where  they  have  taken  place ;  afar  off 
indeed  they  are  celebrated,  but  not  so  much. 

But  in  your  case  it  was  not  so,  but  the  sound 
of  good  report  was  spread  abroad  in  every  part 
of  the  earth.  And  whence  know  we,  says  one, 
that  the  words  were  not  hyperbolical  ?  For  this 
nation  of  the  Macedonians,  before  the  coming 
of  Christ,  was  renowned,  and  celebrated  every- 
where more  than  the  Romans.  And  the  Romans 
were  admired  on  this  account,  that  they  took 
them  captive.  For  the  actions  of  the  Macedo- 
nian king  exceeded  all  report,  who,  setting  out 
from  a  little  city  indeed,  yet  subdued  the  world. 
Wherefore  also  the  Prophet  saw  him,  a  winged 
leopard,  showing  his  swiftness,  his  vehemence, 
his  fiery  nature,  his  suddenly  in  a  manner  flying 
over  the  whole  world  with  the  trophies  of  his 
victory.  And  they  say,  that  hearing  from  a  cer- 
tain philosopher,  that  there  were  infinite  worlds, 
he  groaned  bitterly,  that  when  they  were  num- 
berless, he  had  not  conquered  even  one.  So 
high-minde<i  was  he,  and  high-souled,  and  cele- 
brated everywhere.  And  with  the  fame  of  the 
king  the  glory  of  the  nation  also  kept  pace. 
For  he  was  called  "Alexander,  the  Macedo- 
nian." So  that  what  took  place  there  was  also 
naturally  much  talked  of.  For  nothing  can  be 
concealed  that  relates  to  the  illustrious.  The 
Macedonians  then  were  not  inferior  to  the 
Romans. 

And  this  has  also  arisen  from  their  vehemence. 
For  as  if  he  were  speaking  of  something  living, 
he  introduces  the  word  "  gone  forth  " ;  so  vehe- 
ment and  energetic  was  their  faith.  "So  that 
we  need  not  to  speak  anything,"  says  he,  "  for 
they  themselves  report  concerning  us  what  en- 
tering in  we  had  unto  you."  They  do  not  wait 
to  hear  from  us,1  but  those  who  were  not  pres- 
ent, and  have  not  seen,  anticipate  those  who 
were  present,  and  have  seen  your  good  deeds. 
So  manifest  were  they  everywhere  made  by  re- 
port. We  shall  not  therefore  need,  by  relating 
your  actions,  to  bring  them  to  equal  zeal.  For 
the  things  which  they  ought  to  have  heard  from 
us,  these  they  themselves  talk  of,  anticipating 
us.  And  yet  in  the  case  of  such  there  is  fre- 
quently envy,  but  the  exceeding  greatness  of  the 
thing  conquered  even  this,  and  they  are  the 
heralds  of  your  conflicts.  And  though  left  be- 
hind, not  even  so  are  they  silenced,  but  they  are 
beforehand  with  us.  And  being  such,  it  is  not 
possible  for  them  to  disbelieve  our  report. 

What  means,  "What  manner  of  entering  in 
we  had  unto  you  "  ?    That  it  was  full  of  dangers, 


1  [This  trap   iifLmy,  "  from  us  "  (see  below),  was  easily  changed 
into  ircpi  vfwy,  "concerning  us/'  the  text  of  most  editions. — J.  A.  B.] 


and  numberless  deaths,  but  that  none  of  these 
things  troubled  you.  But  as  if  nothing  had  hap- 
pened, so  you  adhered  to  us ;  as  if  ye  had  suf- 
fered no  evil,  but  had  enjoyed  infinite  good,  so 
you  received  us  after  these  things.  For  this  was 
the  second  entering.2  They  went  to  Bercea, 
they  were^persecuted,  and  when  they  came  after 
this  they  so  received  them,  as  though  they  had 
been  honored  by  these  also,  so  that  they  even 
laid  down  their  lives  for  them.  The  expression, 
"  What  manner  of  entering  in  we  had,"  is  com- 
plicated, and  contains  an  encomium  both  of 
them  and  of  themselves.  But  he  himself  has 
turned  this  to  their  advantage.  "  And  how,"  he 
says,  "  ye  turned  to  God  from  idols,  to  serve  a 
living  and  true  God  " ;  that  is,  that  ye  did  it 
readily,  that  ye  did  it  with  much  eagerness,  that 
it  did  not  require  much  labor  to  make  you. 
"  In  order  to  serve,"  says  he,  "  a  living  and  true 
God." 

Here  also  he  introduced  an  exhortation,  which 
is  the  part  of  one  who  would  make  his  discourse 
less  offensive.  "And  to  wait,"  he  says,  "for 
His  Son  from  heaven,  whom  He  raised  from 
the  dead,  even  Jesus,  which  delivereth  us  from 
the  wrath  to  come."  "And  to  wait,"  he  says,  "  for 
His  Son  from  heaven  "  ;  Him  that  was  crucified, 
Him  that  was  buried ;  to  wait  for  Him  from 
heaven.  And  how  "from  heaven"?  "Whom 
He  raised  from  the  dead."  You  see  all  things 
at  the  same  time ;  both  the  Resurrection,  and 
the  Ascension,  and  the  second  Coming,  the 
Judgment,  the  retribution  of  the  just,  the  pun- 
ishment of  the  wicked.  "Jesus,"  he  says,  "which 
delivereth  us  from  the  wrath  to  come."  This  is 
at  once  comfort,  and  exhortation,  and  encour- 
agement. For  if  He  raised  Him  from  the  dead, 
and  He  is  in  heaven,  and  thence  will  come, 
(and  ye  believed  in  Him ;  for  if  ye  had  not  be- 
lieved in  Him,  ye  would  not  have  suffered  so 
much),  this  of  itself  is  sufficient  comfort.  These 
shall  suffer  punishment,  which  he  says  in  his 
second  epistle,  and  you  will  have  no  small  con- 
solation. 

And  to  "  wait,"  he  says,  "  for  His  Son  from 
heaven."  The  terrible  things  are  in  hand,  but 
the  good 'things  are  in  the  future,  when  Christ 
shall  come  from  heaven.  See  how  much  hope 
is  required,  in  that  He  who  was  crucified  has 
been  raised,  that  He  has  been  taken  up  into 
heaven,  that  He  will  come  to  judge  the  quick 
and  the  dead. 

Chap.  ii.  i,  2.  "For  yourselves,  brethren, 
know  our  entering  in  unto  you,  that  it  hath  not 
been  found  vain:  but  having  suffered  before, 
and  been  shamefully  entreated,  as  ye  know,  at 
Philippi,  we  waxed  bold  in  our  God  to  speak 


*  This  is  not  quite  clear  from  Acts  xvii.,  though  "  those  thai 
ducted  Paul,"  ver.  15,  may  have  been  Thessalonuuis.    The  ill-treat- 
ment presently  mentioned  by  St.  Paul  was  at  Philippi  previously. 


Homily  II.] 


HOMILIES   ON   THESSALONIANS. 


329 


unto  you  the  Gospel  of  God  in  much  con- 
flict." 

Great  indeed  were  your  actions  also,  but  yet 
neither  did  we  have  recourse  to  human  speech. 
But  what  he  says  above,  that  also  he  repeats 
here,  that  from  both  sides  is  shown  what  was 
the  nature  of  the  Preaching,  from  the  miracles, 
and  from  the  resolution  of  the  preachers,  and 
from  the  zeal  and  fervor  of  those  who  received 
it.  "  For  yourselves,"  he  says, "  know  our  enter- 
ing in  unto  you,  that  it  hath  not  been  found 
vain,"  that  is,  that  it  was  not  according  to  man, 
nor  of  any  common  kind.  For  being  fresh  from 
great  dangers,  and  deaths,  and  stripes,  we  im- 
mediately fell  into  dangers.  "But,"  he  says, 
"having  suffered  before,  and  been  shamefully 
entreated,  as  ye  know,  at  Philippi,  we  waxed 
bold  in  our  God."  Do  you  see  how  again  he 
refers  the  whole  to  God?  "To  speak  unto 
you,"  says  he,  "the  Gospel  of  God  in  much 
conflict."1  It  is  not  possible  to  say,  that  there 
indeed  we  were  in  danger,  but  here  we  are  not ; 
yourselves  also  know,  how  great  was  the  danger, 
with  how  much  contention  we  were  among  you. 
Which  also  he  says  in  his  Epistle  to  the  Corin- 
thians ;  "  And  I  was  with  you  in  weakness,"  and 
in  labor,  "  and  in  fear,  and  in  much  trembling." 
(1  Cor.  ii.  3.) 

Ver.  3,  4.  "  For  our  exhortation  is  not  of 
error  nor  of  uncleanness,  nor  in  guile  :  but  even 
as  we  have  been  approved  of  God  to  be  en- 
trusted with  the  Gospel,  so  we  speak ;  not  as 
pleasing  men,  but  God  which  proveth  our 
hearts." 

Do  you  see  that,  as  I  said,  from  their  perse- 
verance he  makes  a  proof  that  the  Preaching  is 
divine?  For,  if  it  were  not  so,  if  it  were  a 
deceit,  we  should  not  have  endured  so  many 
dangers,  which  allowed  us  not  even  to  take 
breath.  You  were  in  tribulation,  we  were  in 
tribulation.  What  then  was  it  ?  Unless  some- 
what of  things  future  had  excited  us,  unless  we 
had  been  persuaded  that  there  is  a  good  hope, 
we  should  not  have  been  filled  with  the  more 
alacrity  by  suffering.  For  who  would  have 
chosen  for  the  sake  of  what  we  have  here  to 
endure  so  many  sufferings,  and  to  live  a  life  of 
anxiety,  and  full  of  dangers?  For  whom  would 
they  persuade?  For  are  not  these  things  of 
themselves  enough  to  trouble  the  disciples,  when 
they  see  their  teachers  in  dangers?  But  this 
was  not  your  case. 

"  For  our  exhortation,"  that  is,  our  teaching, 
"  is  not  of  error."  The  matter,  he  says,  is  not 
guile  nor  deceit,  that  we  should  give  it  up.  It 
is  not  for  things  abominable,  as  the  tricks  of 
jugglers  and  sorcerers.  "  And  of  uncleanness," 
says  he,  "  nor  in  guile,"  nor  for  any  insurrection, 
like  what  Theudas  did.     "  But  even  as  we  have 

1  aymvi. 


been  approved  of  God  to  be  entrusted  with  the 
Gospel,  so  we  speak,  not  as  pleasing  men,  but 
God."  Do  you  see,  that  it  is  not  vainglory? 
"  But  God,"  he  says,  "  which  proveth  our  hearts." 
We  do  nothing  for  the  sake  of  pleasing  men,  he 
says.  For  on  whose  account  should  we  do 
these  things?  Then  having  praised  them,  he 
says,  Not  as  wishing  to  please  men,  nor  seeking 
the  honors  that  are  from  men,  he  adds,  "  But 
as  we  have  been  approved  of  God  to  be 
entrusted  with  the  Gospel."  Unless  He  had 
seen  that  we  were  free  from  every  worldly 
consideration,  He  would  not  have  chosen  us. 
As  therefore  He  approved  us,  such  we  remain, 
as  having  been  "  approved  of  God."  Whence 
did  he  approve  us,  and  entrust  us  with  the  Gos- 
pel? We  appeared  to  God  approved,  so  we 
remain.  It  is  a  proof  of  our  virtue,  that  we  are 
entrusted  with  the  Gospel;  if  there  had  been 
anything  bad  in  us,  God  would  not  have  ap- 
proved us.  But  the  expression  that  He  approved 
us,  does  not  here  imply  search.  But  what  we 
do  upon  proving,  that  he  does  without  proving. 
That  is,  as  he  found  us  proof,  and  trusted  us, 
so  we  speak;  as  it  is  reasonable  that  those 
should,  who  are  approved  and  entrusted  to  be 
worthy  of  the  Gospel,  so  we  speak,  "not  as 
pleasing  men,"  that  is,  not  on  your  account  do 
we  do  all  these  things.2  Because  previously  he 
had  praised  them,  that  he  might  not  bring  his 
speech  under  suspicion,  he  says, 

Ver.  5,6.  "  For  neither  at  any  time  were  we 
found  using  words  of  flattery,  as  ye  know,  nor 
a  cloak  of  covetousness,  God  is  witness;  nor 
seeking  glory  of  men,  neither  from  you,  nor  from 
others,  when  we  might  have  been  burdensome, 
as  Apostles  of  Christ." 

For  "neither  at  any  time,"  he  says,  "were 
we  found  using  words  of  flattery  " ;  that  is,  we 
did  not  flatter,  which  is  the  part  of  deceivers, 
who  wish  to  get  possession  and  to  domineer. 
No  one  can  say  that  we  flattered  in  order  to 
rule,  nor  that  we  had  recourse  to  it  for  the  sake 
of  wealth.  Of  this,  which  was  manifest,  he  after- 
wards calls  them  to  be  witnesses.  "Whether 
we  flattered,"  he  says,  "  ye  know."  But  as  to 
what  was  uncertain,  namely,  whether  it  were  in 
the  way  of  covetousness,  he  calls  God  to  wit- 
ness. "  Nor  seeking  glory  of  men,  neither  from 
you,  nor  from  others,  when  we  might  have  been 
burdensome,  as  Apostles  of  Christ ; "  that  is, 
not  seeking  after  honors  either,  nor  boasting 
ourselves,  nor  requiring  attendance  of  guards. 
And  yet  even  if  we  had  done  this,  we  should 
have  done  nothing  out  of  character.  For  if  per- 
sons sent  forth  by  kings  are  nevertheless3  in 

*  [This  sentence,  after  Field's  text,  is  awkward:  but  the  manifest 
alterations  introduced  into  the  text  followed  in  most  editions  do  not 
really. mend  matters.  —  J.  A.  B.] 

*  i.e.  though  sent  by  mere  earthly  kings.  The  Catena  omits  the 
word. 


330 


WORKS   OF   ST.    CttRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  II. 


honor,  much  more  might  we  be.  And  he  has 
not  said,  that  "  we  were  dishonored,"  nor  that 
"  we  did  not  enjoy  honors,"  which  would  have 
been  to  reproach  them,  but  "  we  did  not  seek 
them."  We  therefore,  who,  when  we  might 
have  sought  them,  sought  them  not,  even  when 
the  preaching  required  it,  how  should  we  do 
anything  for  the  sake  of  glory  ?  And  yet  even 
if  we  had  sought  them,  not  even  in  that  case 
would  there  have  been  any  blame.  For  it  is  fit 
that  those  men  who  are  sent  forth  from  God,  as 
ambassadors  now  coming  from  heaven,  should 
enjoy  great  honor. 

But  with  an  excess  of  forbearance  we  do  none 
of  these  things,  that  we  may  stop  the  mouths  of 
the  adversaries.  And  it  cannot  be  said,  that  to 
you  we  act  thus,  but  not  so  others.  For  thus 
also  he  said  in  his  Epistle  to  the  Corinthians : 
"  For  ye  bear  with  a  man  if  he  bringeth  you 
into  bondage,  if  he  devoureth  you,  if  he  taketh 
you  captive,  if  he  exalteth  himself,  if  he  smiteth 
you  on  the  face."  (2  Cor.  xi.  20.)  And  again, 
"  His  bodily  presence  is  weak,  and  his  speech 
of  no  account."  (2  Cor.  x.  10.)  And  again, 
"  Forgive  me  this  wrong."  (2  Cor.  xii.  13.) 
He  shows  there  also  that  he  was  exceeding 
humble  from  his  suffering  so  many  things.  But 
here  he  also  says  concerning  money,  "  when  we 
might  have  been  burdensome,  as  Apostles  of 
Christ." 

Ver.  7,  8.  "  But  we  were  gentle  in  the  midst 
of  you,  as  when  a  nurse  cherisheth  her  own 
children  :  even  so,  being  affectionately  desirous 
of  you,  we  were  well  pleased  to  impart  unto 
you,  not  the  Gospel  of  God  only,  but  also  our 
own  souls,  because  ye  were  become  very  dear 
to  us." 

"  But  we  were  gentle,"  he  says ;  we  exhibited 
nothing  that  was  offensive  or  troublesome,  noth- 
ing displeasing,  or  boastful.  And  the  expres- 
sion, "  in  the  midst  of  you,"  is  as  if  one  should 
say,  we  were  as  one  of  you,  not  taking  the  higher 
lot.  "As  when  a  nurse  cherisheth  her  own 
children."  So  ought  the  teacher  to  be.  Does 
the  nurse  flatter  that  she  may  obtain  glory? 
Does  she  ask  money  of  her  little  children  ?  Is 
she  offensive  or  burdensome  to  them  ?  Are  they 
not  more  indulgent  to  them  than  mothers? 
Here  he  shows  his  affection.  "  Even  so,  being 
affectionately  desirous  of  you,"  he  says,  we  are 
so  bound  to  you,  he  says,  and  we  not  only  take 
nothing  of  you,  but  if  it  be  necessary  even  to 
impart  to  you  our  souls,  we  should  not  have 
refused.  Tell  me,  then,  is  this  of  a  human  view  ? 
and  who  is  so  foolish  as  to  say  this?  "We 
were  well  pleased  to  impart  to  you,"  he  says, 
"  not  the  Gospel  of  God  only,  but  also  our  own 
souls."  So  that  this  is  greater  than  the  other. 
And  what  is  the  gain  ?  For  from  the  Gospel  is 
gain,  but  to  give  our  souls,  is  with  respect  to 


difficulty  a  greater  thing  than  that.  For  merely 
to  preach  is  not  the  same  thing  as  to  give  the 
soul.  For  that  indeed  is  more  precious,  but  the 
latter  is  a  matter  of  more  difficulty.  We  were 
willing,  he  says,  if  it  were  possible,  even  to  spend 
our  souls  upon  you.  And  this  we  should  have 
been  willing  to  do ;  for  if  we  had  not  been  will- 
ing, we  should  not  have  endured  the  necessity. 
Since  then  he  praised,  and  does  praise,  on  this 
account  he  says,  that,  not  seeking  money,  nor 
flattering  you,  nor  desiring  glory,  do  we  do  this. 
For  observe;  they  had  contended  much,  and 
so  ought  to  be  praised  and  admired  even  ex- 
traordinarily, that  they  might  be  more  firm ;  the 
praise  was  suspicious.  On  this  account  he  says 
all  these  things,  by  way  of  repelling  the  suspi- 
cion. And  he  also  mentions  the  dangers.  And 
again,  that  he  may  not  be  thought  to  speak  of 
the  dangers  on  this  account,  as  if  laboring  for 
them,  and  claiming  to  be  honored  by  them, 
therefore  again,  as  he  had  to  mention  the  dan- 
gers, he  added,  "  Because  ye  were  become  very 
dear  to  us  "  ;  we  would  willingly  have  given  our 
souls  for  you,  because  we  were  vehemently  at- 
tached to  you.  The  Gospel  indeed  we  pro- 
claim, because  God  commanded  it;  but  so 
much  do  we  love  you,  that,  if  it  were  possible, 
we  would  have  given  even  our  souls. 

He  who  loves,  ought  so  to  love,  that  if  he 
were  asked  even  for  his  soul,1  and  it  were  possi- 
ble, he  would  not  refuse  it.    I  do  not  say  "  if  he 
were  asked,"  but  so  that  he  would  even  run  to 
present  him  with  the  gift.    For  nothing,  nothing 
can  be  sweeter  than  such  love ;  nothing  will  fall 
out  there  that  is  grievous.      Truly  "a  faithful 
friend  is  the  medicine  of  life."    (Ecclus.  vi.  16.) 
Truly  "  a  faithful  friend  is  a  strong  defense." 
(lb.  14.)     For  what  will  not  a  genuine  friend 
perform?     What  pleasure  will  he  not  afford? 
what   benefit?    what   security?      Though  you 
should  name  infinite  treasures,  none  of  them  is 
comparable  to  a  genuine  friend.     And  first  let 
us    speak   of  the   great   delight  of  friendship 
itself.     A  friend  rejoices  at  seeing  his  friend,  and 
expands  with  joy.     He  is  knit  to  him  with  an 
union  of  soul  that  affords  unspeakable  pleasure. 
And  if  he  only  calls  him  to  remembrance,  he  is 
roused  in  mind,  and  transported. 

I  speak  of  genuine  friends,  men  of  one  soul, 
who  would  even  die  for  each  other,  who  love 
fervently.  Do  not,  thinking  of  those  who  barely 
love,  who  are  table-companions,  mere  nominal 
friends,  suppose  that  my  discourse  is  refuted. 
If  any  one  has  a  friend  such  as  I  speak  of,  he 
will  acknowledge  the  truth  of  my  words.  He, 
though  he  sees  his  friend  every  day,  is  not  sati- 
ated. For  him  he  prays  for  the  same  things  as 
for  himself.  I  know  one,  who  calling  upon  holy 
men  in  behalf  of  his  friend,  besought  them  to 

1  +vxw,  both  "  ioul "  and  "  life." 


Homily  IL] 


HOMILIES   ON   THESSALONIANS. 


331 


pray  first  for  him,  and  then  for  himself.  So  dear 
a  thing  is  a  good  friend,  that  times  and  places 
are  loved  on  his  account.  For  as  bodies  that 
are  luminous  spread  their  radiance  to  the  neigh- 
boring places,  so  also  friends  leave  a  grace  of 
their  own  in  the  places  to  which  they  have  come. 
And  oftentimes  in  the  absence  of  friends,  as  we 
have  stood  on  those  places,  we  have  wept,  and 
remembering  the  days  which  we  passed  together, 
have  sighed.  It  is  not  possible  to  represent  by 
speech,  how  great  a  pleasure  the  intercourse  with 
friends  affords.  But  those  only  know,  who  have 
experience.  From  a  friend  we  may  both  ask  a. 
favor,  and  receive  one  without  suspicion.  When 
they  enjoin  anything  upon  us,  then  we  feel  in- 
debted to  them ;  but  when  they  are  slow  to  do 
this,  then  we  are  sorrowful.  We  have  nothing 
which  is  not  theirs.  Often  despising  all  things 
here,  on  their  account  we  are  not  willing  to  de- 
part hence ;  and  they  are  more  longed  for  by  us 
than  the  light. 

For,  in  good  truth,  a  friend  is  more  to  be  longed 
for  than  the  light ;  I  speak  of  a  genuine  one. 
And  wonder  not :  for  it  were  better  for  us  that 
the  sun  should  be  extinguished,  than  that  we 
should  be  deprived  of  friends ;  better  to  live  in 
darkness,  than  to  be  without  friends.  And  I  will 
tell  you  why:  Because  many  who  see  the  sun 
are  in  darkness,  but  they  can  never  be  even  in 
tribulation,  who  abound  in  friends.  I  speak  of 
spiritual  friends,  who  prefer  nothing  to  friend- 
ship. Such  was  Paul,  who  would  willingly  have 
given  his  own  soul,  even  though  not  asked,  nay 
would  have  plunged  into  hell1  for  them.  With 
so  ardent  a  disposition  ought  we  to  love. 

I  wish  to  give  you  an  example  of  friendship. 
Friends,  that  is,  friends  according  to  Christ,  sur- 
pass fathers  and  sons.  For  tell  me  not  of  friends 
of  the  present  day,  since  this  good  thing  also 
has  past  away  with  others.  But  consider,  in  the 
time  of  the  Apostles,  I  speak  not  of  the  chief 
men,  but  of  the  believers  themselves  generally ; 
;<  all,"  he  says,  "  were  of  one  heart  and  soul : 
ind  not  one  of  them  said  that  aught  of  the 
:hings  which  he  possessed  was  his  own  .  .  . 
md  distribution  was  made  unto  each,  accord- 
ng  as  any  one  had  need."  (Acts  iv.  32,  35.) 
Fhere  were  then  no  such  words  as  "  mine  "  and 
'  thine."  This  is  friendship,  that  a  man  should 
lot  consider  his  goods  his  own,  but  his  neigh- 
wr's,  that  his  possessions  belong  to  another; 
hat  he  should  be  as  careful  of  his  friend's 
oul,2  as  of  his  own;    and  the  friend  likewise. 

And  where  is  it  possible,  somebody  says,  that 
uch  an  one  should  be  found  ?  Because  we  have 
lot  the  will ;   for  it  is  possible.     If  it  were  not 

1  [The  reference  is  to  Chrys.'s  (erroneous)  interpretation  of 
torn.  ix.  3.  See  his  Homily  on  that  passage,  and  above,  on  Col.  iv. 
8.  — J.  A.  B.] 

*  Or  "  life.*    The 


ight  throughout. 


double  meaning  of  the  word  should  be  kept  in 


possible,  neither  would  Christ  have  commanded 
it ;  he  would  not  have  discoursed  so  much  con- 
cerning love.  A  great  thing  is  friendship,  and 
how  great,  no  one  can  learn,  and  no  discourse 
represent,  but  experience  itself.  It  is  this8  that 
has  caused  the  heresies.  This  makes  the  Greeks 
to  be  Greeks.  He  who  loves  does  not  wish  to 
command,  nor  to  rule,  but  is  rather  obliged  when 
he  is  ruled  and  commanded.  He  wishes  rather 
to  bestow  a  favor  than  to  receive  one,  for  he 
loves,  and  is  so  affected,  as  not  having  satisfied 
his  desire.  He  is  not  so  much  gratified  when 
good  is  done  to  him,  as  when  he  is  doing  good. 
For  he  wishes  to  oblige,  rather  than  to  be 
indebted  to  him ;  or  rather  he  wishes  both  to 
be  beholden  to  him,  and  to  have  him  his  debtor. 
And  he  wishes  both  to  bestow  favors,  and  not 
to  seem  to  bestow  them,  but  himself  to  be  the 
debtor.  I  think  that  perhaps  many  of  you  do 
not  understand  what  has  been  said.  He  wishes 
to  be  the  first  in  bestowing  benefits,  and  not  to 
seem  to  be  the  first,  but  to  be  returning  a  kind- 
ness. Which  God  also  has  done  in  the  case  of 
men.  He  purposed  to  give  His  own  Son  for  us ; 
but  that  He  might  not  seem  to  bestow  a  favor, 
but  to  be  indebted  to  us,  He  commanded  Abra- 
ham to  offer  his  son,4  that  whilst  doing  a  great 
kindness,  He  might  seem  to  do  nothing  great. 

For  when  indeed  there  is  no  love,  we  both 
upbraid  men  with  our  kindnesses  and  we  exag- 
gerate little  ones ;  but  when  there  is  love,  we 
both  conceal  them  and  wish  to  make  the  great 
appear  small,  that  we  may  not  seem  to  have  our 
friend  for  a  debtor,  but  ourselves  to  be  debtors 
to  him,  in  having  him  our  debtor.  I  know  that 
the  greater  part  do  not  understand  what  is  said, 
and  the  cause  is,  that  I  am  speaking  of  a  thing 
which  now  dwells  in  heaven.  As  therefore  if  I 
were  speaking  of  any  plant  growing  in  India,  of 
which  no  one  had  ever  had  any  experience,  no 
speech  would  avail  to  represent  it,  though  I 
should  utter  ten  thousand  words :  so  also  now 
whatever  things  I  say,  I  say  in  vain,  for  no  one 
will  be  able  to  understand  me.  This  is  a  plant 
that  is  planted  in  heaven,  having  for  its  branches 
not  heavy-clustered  pearls,  but  a  virtuous  life, 
much  more  acceptable  than  they.  What  pleas- 
ure would  you  speak  of,  the  foul  and  the  hon- 
orable? But  that  of  friendship  excelleth  them 
all,  though  you  should  speak  of  the  sweetness  of 
honey.  For  that  satiates,  but  a  friend  never 
does,  so  long  as  he  is  a  friend ;  nay,  the  desire 
of  him  rather  increases,  and  such  pleasure  never 
admits  of  satiety.  And  a  friend  is  sweeter  than 
the  present  life.  Many  therefore  after  the  death 
of  their  friends  have  not  wished  to  live  any  longer. 
With  a  friend  one  would  bear  even  banishment ; 
but  without  a  friend  would  not  choose  to  inhabit 
even  his  own  country.     With  a  friend  even  pov- 


*  i.e.  the  want  of  love. 


4  See  Gen.  xxii.  16,  18. 


332 


WORKS   OF   ST.    CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  IIL 


erty  is  tolerable,  but  without  him  both  health 
and  riches  are  intolerable.  He  has  another  self : 
I  am  straitened,  because  I  cannot  instance  by 
an  example.  For  I  should  in  that  case  make  it 
appear  that  what  has  been  said  is  much  less  than 
it  ought  to  be. 

And  these  things  indeed  are  so  here.  But 
from  God  the  reward  of  friendship  is  so  great, 
that  it  cannot  be  expressed.  He  gives  a  reward, 
that  we  may  love  one  another,  the  thing  for 
which  we  owe  a  reward.  "Pray,"  He  says, 
"  and  receive  a  reward,"  for  that  for  which  we  owe 
a  reward,  because  we  ask  for  good  things.  "  For 
that  which  you  ask,"  He  says,  "receive  a  reward. 
Fast,  and  receive  a  reward.     Be  virtuous,  and 


receive  a  reward,"  though  you  rather  owe  a 
reward.  But  as  fathers,  when  they  hav£  made 
their  children  virtuous,  then  further  give  them  a 
reward  ;  for  they  are  debtors,  because  they  have 
afforded  them  a  pleasure ;  so  also  God  acts. 
"  Receive  a  reward,"  He  says,  "  if  thou  be  vir- 
tuous, for  thou  delightest  thy  Father,  and  for 
this  I  owe  thee  a  reward.  But  if  thou  be  evil, 
not  so  :  for  thou  provokest  Him  that  begot  thee." 
Let  us  not  then  provoke  God,  but  let  us  delight 
Him,  that  we  may  obtain  the  kingdom  of 
Heaven,  in  Christ  Jesus  our  Lord,  to  whom  be 
the  glory  and  the  strength,  world  without  end. 
Amen. 


HOMILY    III. 


i  Thessalonians  ii.  9-12. 


« 


For  ye  remember,  brethren,  our  labor  and  travail :  for 
working  night  and  day,  that  we  might  not  burden 
any  of  you,  we  preached  unto  you  the  Gospel  of 
God.  Ye  are  witnesses,  and  God  also,  how  holily 
and  righteously  and  unblamably  we  behaved  our- 
selves toward  you  that  believe :  as  ye  know  how  we 
dealt  with  each  one  of  you,  as  a  father  with  his  own 
children,  exhorting  you,  and  encouraging  you,  and 
testifying,  to  the  end  that  ye  should  walk  worthily  of 
God,  who  calleth  you  into  His  own  kingdom  and 
glory." 


The  teacher  ought  to  do  nothing  with  a  feel- 
ing of  being  burdened,  that  tends  to  the  salva- 
tion of  his  disciples.  For  if  the  blessed  Jacob 
was  buffeted  night  and  day  in  keeping  his  flocks, 
much  more  ought  he,  to  whom  the  care  of  souls 
is  entrusted,  to  endure  all  toils,  though  the  work 
be  laborious  and  mean,  looking  only  to  one 
thing,  the  salvation  of  his  disciples,  and  the  glory 
thence  arising  to  God.  See  then,  Paul,  a  man 
that  was  a  Preacher,  an  Apostle  of  the  world,  and 
raised  to  so  great  honor,  worked  with  his  hands 
that  he  might  not  be  burdensome  to  his  disciples. 

"  For  ye  remember,"  he  says,  "  my  brethren, 
our  labor  and  travail."  He  had  said  previously, 
"  we  might*  have  been  burdensome  as  the  Apos- 
tles of  Christ,"  as  he  also  says  in  the  Epistle  to 
the  Corinthians,  "  Know  ye  not  that  they  which 
minister  about  sacred  things  eat  of  the  things 
of  the  Temple  ?  Even  so  also  did  Christ  ordain 
that  they  which  proclaim  the  Gospel  should 
live  of  the  Gospel."  (1  Cor.  ix.  13,  14.)  But 
I,  he  says,  would  not,  but  I  labored  j  and  he 
did  not  merely  work,  but  with  much  diligence. 
Observe  then  what  he  says ;  "  For  ye  remem- 
ber," he  has  not  said,  the  benefits  received  from 


me,  but,  "  our  labor  and  travail :  for  working 
night  and  day,  that  we  might  not  burden  any  ot 
you,  we  preached  unto  you  the  Gospel  of  God." 
And  to  the  Corinthians  he  said  a  different  thing, 
"  I  robbed  other  Churches,  taking  wages  of 
them  that  I  might  minister  unto  you."  (2  Cor. 
xi.  8.)  And  yet  even  there  he  worked,  but  of 
this  he  made  no  mention,  but  urged  what  was 
more  striking,1  as  if  he  had  said,  I  was  main- 
tained by  others  when  ministering  to  you.  Bat 
here  it  is  not  so.  But  what?  "Working  night 
and  day."  And  there  indeed  he  says,  "And 
when  I  was  present  with  you,  and  was  in  want, 
I  was  not  a  burden  on  any  man,"  and,  "  I  took 
wages  that  I  might  minister  unto  you."  (2  Cor. 
xi.  8,  9.)  And  here  he  shows  that  the  men 
were  in  poverty,  but  there  it  was  not  so. 

On  this  account  he  frequently  addresses  them 
as  witnesses.     For  "  ye  are  witnesses,"  he  says, 
"  and  God  also  " ;  God  was  worthy  to  be  believed, 
but  this  other  was  that  which  most  fully  assured     ( 
them.     For  that  indeed  was  uncertain  to  those 
who  were  ignorant  of  it ;  but  this  was  without     ; 
doubt  to  all.     For  do  not  enquire  whether  it  was    J 
Paul  who  said  these  things.     Much  beyond  what     \ 
was  necessary  he  gives  them  assurance.    Where-    j 
fore  he  says,  "  Ye  are  witnesses,  and  God  also, 
how  holily  and  righteously  and  unblamably  we 
behaved  ourselves  toward  you  that  believe."   ft    : 
was  proper  to  praise  them  again.     On  this  ac- 
count he  sets  these  things  before  them,  which 
were  sufficient  to  persuade  them.     For  he  that 
stood  there  in  want,  and  did  not  receive  any- 
thing, would  much  more  not  receive  anythjng 

1  Or  **  wounding";  frAifKrutwrfpor. 


Homily  III.] 


HOMILIES   ON   THESSALONIANS. 


335 


now.  "  How  holily,"  says  he,  "  and  righteously 
and  unblamably  we  behaved  ourselves  toward 
you  that  believe." 

"  As  ye  know  how  we  exhorted  and  comforted 
each  one  of  you,  as  a  father  doth  his  own  chil- 
dren." Above  having  spoken  of  his  behavior, 
here  he  speaks  of  his  love,  which  was  more  than 
what  belonged  to  his  rule  over  them.  And 
what  is  said  marks  his  freedom  from  pride.  "  As 
a  father  his  own  children,  exhorting  you,  and  en- 
couraging you,  and  testifying,  to  the  end  that  ye 
should  walk  worthily  of  God,  who  calleth  you 
into  His  own  kingdom  and  glory."  When  he 
says,  "and  testifying,"  then  he  makes  mention  of 
"  fathers  "  ;  although  we  testified,  it  was  not  vio- 
lently, but  like  fathers.  "  Each  one  of  you." 
Strange  !  in  so  great  a  multitude  to  omit  no  one, 
neither  small  nor  great,  neither  rich  nor  poor. 
"  Exhorting "  you,  he  says ;  to  bear.  "  And 
comforting  and  testifying."  "  Exhorting," l  there- 
fore they  did  not  seek  glory ;  and  "  testifying," 
therefore  they  did  not  flatter.  "  That  ye  should 
walk  worthily  of  God,  who  calleth  you  into  His 
own  kingdom  and  glory."  Observe  again,  how, 
in  relating,  he  both  teaches  and  comforts.  For 
if  He  hath  called  them  unto  His  kingdom,  if  He 
called  them  unto  glory,  they  ought  to  endure 
all  things.  We  "  entreat "  *  you,  not  that  you 
should  grant  us  any  favor,  but  that  you  should 
gain  the  kingdom  of  heaven. 

Ver.  13.  "  And  for  this  cause  we  also  thank 
God  without  ceasing,  that  when  ye  received  from 
us  the  word  of  the  message,  even  the  word  of 
God,  ye  accepted  it  not  as  the  word  of  men, 
but  as  it  is  in  truth,  the  word  of  God,  which  also 
worketh  in  you  that  believe." 

It  cannot  be  said,  he  says,  that  we  indeed  do 
all  things  unblamably,  but  you  on  the  other 
hand  have  done  things  unworthy  of  our  course 
of  life.  For  in  hearing  us,  you  gave  such  heed, 
as  if  not  hearing  men,  but  as  if  God  Himself 
were  exhorting  you.  Whence  is  this  manifest? 
Because  as  he  shows  from  his  own  temptations 
and  their  testimony,  and  the  way  in  which  he 
acted,  that  he  did  not  preach  with  flattery  or 
irainglory :  so  from  their  trials,  he  shows  also 
that  they  rightly  received  the  word.  For  whence, 
he  says,  unless  ye  had  heard  as  if  God  were 
speaking,  did  ye  endure  such  perils?  And  ob- 
jerve  his  dignity. 

Ver.  14,  15,  16.  "For  ye,  brethren,  became 
imitators  of  the  Churches  of  God,  which  are  in 
[udaea  in  Christ  Jesus :  for  ye  also  suffered  the 
»ame  things  of  your  own  countrymen,  even  as 
:hey  did  of  the  Jews ;  who  both  killed  the  Lord 
[esus  and  their  own  prophets,  and  drave  out  us, 
md  please  not  God,  and  are  contrary  to  all 
nen;    forbidding  us  to  speak  to  the  Gentiles 

1  Or  "  entreating*"  and  so  he  takes  it  below. 
»  E.  V.  ••  exhorting." 


that  they  may  be  saved ;  to  fill  up  their  sins 
alway :  but  the  wrath  is  come  upon  them  to  the 
uttermost." 

"  For  ye,"  he  says,  "  became  imitators  of  the 
Churches  of  God  which  are  in  Judaea."  This  is 
a  great  consolation.  It  is  no  wonder,  he  says, 
that  they  should  do  these  things  to  you,  inas- 
much as  they  have  done  it  also  to  their  own 
countrymen.  And  this  too  is  no  little  proof  that 
the  Preaching  is  true,  that  even  Jews  were  able 
to  endure  all  things.  "  For  ye  also,"  he  says, 
"have  suffered  the  same  things  of  your  own 
countrymen,  even  as  they  did  of  the  Jews." 
There  is  something  more  in  his  saying,  "  as  they 
also  did  in  Judaea " ;  it  shows  that  everywhere 
they  rejoiced,  as  having  nobly  contended.  He 
says  therefore,  "  that  ye  also  suffered  the  same 
things."  And  again,  what  wonder  is  it,  if  to 
you  also,  when  even  to  the  Lord  they  dared  do 
such  things? 

Do  you  see  how  he  introduces  this  as  contain- 
ing great  consolation?  And  constantly  he  ad- 
verts to  it ;  and  upon  a  close  examination  one 
may  find  it  in  nearly  all  his  Epistles,  how  vari- 
ously,8 upon  all  occasions  of  temptation,  he 
brings  foward  Christ.  Observe  accordingly, 
that  here  also,  when  accusing  the  Jews,  he  puts 
them  in  mind  of  the  Lord,  and  of  the  sufferings 
of  the  Lord ;  so  well  does  he  know  that  this  is  a 
matter  of  the  greatest  consolation. 

"Who  both  killed  the  Lord,"  he  says  —  but, 
perhaps,  they  did  not  know  Him,  —  assuredly 
they  did  know  Him.  What  then?  Did  they 
not  slay  and  stone  their  own  prophets,  whose 
books  even  they  carry  about  with  them  ?  And 
they  did  not  do  this  for  the  sake  of  truth. 
There  is  therefore  not  only  a  consolation  under 
the  temptations,  but  they  are  reminded  not  to 
think  that  (the  Jews)  did  it  for  the  truth's  sake, 
and  be  troubled  on  that  account.  "  And  drave 
out  us,"4  he  says.  And  we  also,  he  says,  have 
suffered  numberless  evils.  "  And  please  not  God, 
and  are  contrary  to  all  men;  forbidding  us  to 
speak  to  the  Gentiles,  that  they  may  be  saved." 
"  Contrary  to  all  men,"  he  says.  How?  Because 
if  we  ought  to  speak  to  the  world,  and  they  for- 
bid us,  they  are  the  common  enemies  of  the 
world.  They  have  slain  Christ  and  the  prophets, 
they  insult  God,  they  are  the  common  enemies 
of  the  world,  they  banish  us,  when  coming  for 
their  salvation.  What  wonder  if  they  have  done 
such  things  also  to  you,  when  they  have  done 
them  even  in  Judaea?  "  Forbidding  us  to  speak 
to  the  Gentiles,  that  they  might  be  saved."  It 
is  a  mark  of  envy  therefore  to  hinder  the  salva- 
tion of  all.  "  To  fill  up  their  sins  alway.  But 
the  wrath  is  come  upon  them  to  the  uttermost." 


*  Or  "especially  ";  Jta^opw?. 

4  c«t3i*>tai'r*»»'t  '*  drove  us  out,"  see  Acts  xvii.  5,  14;  or  "  perse- 
cuted us  to  the  utmost." 


334 


WORKS   OF   ST.    CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  III. 


What  is  "  to  the  uttermost  "  ?  These  things  are 
no  longer  like  the  former.  There  is  here  no  re- 
turn back,  no  limit.  But  the  wrath  is  nigh  at 
hand.  Whence  is  this  manifest?  From  that 
which  Christ  foretold.  For  not  only  is  it  a  con- 
solation to  have  partakers  in  our  afflictions,  but 
to  hear  also  that  our  persecutors  are  to  be  pun- 
ished. And  if  the  delay  is  a  grievance,  let  it  be 
a  consolation  that  they  will  never  lift  up  their 
heads  again;  or  rather  he  hath  cut  short  the 
delay,  by  saying,  "  THE  wrath,"  showing  that  it 
was  long  ago  due,  and  predetermined,  and  pre- 
dicted. 

Ver.  1 7.  "  But  we,  being  taken  from  you *  for 
a  short  time  in  presence,  not  in  heart,  endeav- 
ored the  more  abundantly  to  see  your  face  with 
great  desire." 

He  has  not  said  "  separated,"  but  what  was 
much  more.2  He  had  spoken  above  of  flattery, 
showing  that  he  did  not  flatter,  that  he  did  not 
seek  glory.  He  speaks  here  concerning  love. 
Because  he  had  said  above,  "as  a  father  his 
children,"  "as  a  nurse,"  here  he  uses  another 
expression,  "  being  made  orphans,"  which  is 
said  of  children  who  have  lost  their  fathers. 
And  yet  they8  were  made  orphans.  "No  " — he 
says — "  but  we.  For  if  any  one  should  examine 
our  longing,  even  as  little  children  without  a  pro- 
tector, having  sustained  an  untimely  bereave- 
ment, long  for  their  parents,  not  only  from  the 
feelings  of  nature  itself,  but  also  on  account  of 
their  deserted  state,  so  truly  do  we  too  feel." 
From  this  also  he  shows  his  own  despondency 
on  account  of  their  separation.  And  this  we 
cannot  say,  he  says,  that  we  have  waited  a  long 
period,  but  "  for  a  short  time,"  and  that  "  in 
presence,  not  in  heart."  For  we  always  have 
you  in  our  mind.  See  how  great  is  his  love  ! 
Although  having  them  always  in  his  heart, 
he  sought  also  their  presence  face  to  face. 
Tell  me  not  of  your  superlative 4  philosophy ! 
This  is  truly  fervent  love ;  both  to  see,  and  to 
hear,  and  speak ;  and  this  may  be  of  much  ad- 
vantage. "We  endeavored  the  more  exceed- 
ingly." What  is  "more  exceedingly"?  He 
either  means  to  say, "  we  are  vehemently  attached 
to  you,"  or,  "  as  was  likely,  being  bereaved  for 
a  season,  we  endeavored  to  see  your  face." 
Observe  the  blessed  Paul.  When  of  himself  he 
cannot  satisfy  his  longing,  he  does  it  through 
others,  as  when  he  sends  Timothy  to  the  Philip- 
pians,  and  the  same  person  again  to  the  Corin- 
thians, holding  intercourse  with  them  through 
others,  when  he  cannot  of  himself.  For  in 
loving  them,  he  was  like  some  mad  person,  not 

1  a.nop4>avi.<r9ivT*s ,  "  bereaved,"  "  made  orphans." 

*  [This  last  clause  is  interpolated  by  some  documents,  but  may 

be  retained  because  it  makes  the  meaning  clearer  to  the  English 

reader.  — J.  A.  B.] 

3  The  Thessalonians. 

4  Gr.  superfluous.  He  means  such  as  would  make  friendship 
quite  independent  of  such  helps. 


to  be  restrained,  nor  to  command  himself  in  his 
affection. 

Ver.  18.  "Wherefore  we  would  fain  have 
come  unto  you." 

Which  is  the  part  of  love ;  yet  here  he  men- 
tions no  other  necessity  but  "  that  we  might  see 
you."  "  I  Paul  once  and  again,  and  Satan  hin- 
dered us." 

What  sayest  thou?  does  Satan  hinder?  Yes, 
truly,  for  this  was  not  the  work  of  God.  For  in 
the  Epistle  to  the  Romans,  he  says  this,  that  God 
hindered  him  (from  Rom.  xv.  22)  ;  and  else- 
where Luke  says,  that  "  the  Spirit "  hindered 
them  from  going  into  Asia.  (Acts  xvi.  7.) 
And  in  the  Epistle  to  the  Corinthians  he  says, 
that  it  is  the  work  of  the  Spirit,  but  here  only 
of  Satan.  But  what  hindrance  of  Satan  is  he 
speaking  of?  Some  unexpected  and  violent 
temptations : 5  for  a  plot,  it  says,  being  formed 
against  him  by  the  Jews,  he  was  detained  three 
months  in  Greece.  But  it  is  another  thing  to 
remain  for  the  sake  of  the  dispensation,  and 
willingly.  For  there  he  says,  "  Wherefore  hav- 
ing no  more  place  in  these  parts"  (Rom.  xv. 
23),  and,  "To  spare  you  I  forbare  to  come  unto 
Corinth."  (2  Cor.  i.  23.)  But  here  nothing  of 
this  sort.  But  what  ?  That  "  Satan  hindered  " 
him.  "  Even  I  Paul,"  he  says,  "  both  once  and 
again."  Observe,  how  ambitious  he  is,  and  what 
a  display  he  makes,  in  his  willingness  to  show 
that  he  loved  them  most  of  all.  "  I  Paul,"  he 
says,  instead  of  Although  no  others.  For  they 
indeed  were  only  willing,  but  I  even  attempted  it 

Ver.  19.  "  For  what  is  our  hope,  or  joy,  or 
crown  of  glorying?  Are  not  even  ye  before  our 
Lord  Jesus  at  His  coming?" 

Are  the  Macedonians,  tell  me,  thy  hope,  O 
blessed  Paul  ?  Not  these  alone,  he  says.  There- 
fore he  has  added,  "Are  not  ye  also?"  For 
"  what,"  he  says,  "  is  our  hope,  or  joy,  or  crown 
of  glorying  "  ?  Observe  then  the  words,  which 
are  those  of  women,  inflamed  with  tenderness, 
talking  to  their  little  children.  "  And  crown  of 
glorying,"  he  says.  For  the  name  of  "  crown  " 
was  not  sufficient  to  express  the  splendor,  but 
also  "of  glorying."  Of  what  fiery  warmth  is 
this  !  Never  could  either  mother,  or  father,  yea 
if  they  even  met  together,  and  commingled  their 
love,  have  shown  their  own  affection  to  be 
equivalent  to  that  of  Paul.  "  My  joy  and  crown," 
he  says,  that  is,  I  rejoice  in  you  more  than  in  a 
crown.  For  consider  how  great  a  thing  it  is, 
that  an  entire  Church  should  be  present,  planted 
and  rooted  by  Paul.  Who  would  not  rejoice  in 
such  a  multitude  of  children,  and  in  the  good- 
ness of  those  children  ?    So  that  this  also  is  not 

*  [We  are  not  told  how^atan  hindered,  though  we  hare  distinctly 
brought  before  us  the  personal  devil  as  acting.  It  is  not  necessary 
to  confine  his  agency  to  temptation  to  sin ;  he  may  have  hindered 
by  the  continuance  of  that  spirit  of  persecution  which  he  prompted 
at  Thessalonica.    Acts  xvii.  5.  — J.  A.  B.] 


Homily  III.] 


HOMILIES   ON   THESSALONIANS. 


335 


flattery.  For  he  has  not  said  "ye,"  but  "ye 
also  " *  together  with  the  others. 

Ver.  20.   "  For  ye  are  our  glory  and  our  joy." 

Chap.  iii.  1,  2.  "Wherefore,  when  we  could 
no  longer  forbear,  we  thought  it  good  to  be  left 
behind  at  Athens  alone."  Instead  of  saying, 
"  we  chose."  "  And  sent  Timothy,  our  brother 
and  God's  minister  and  our  fellow-worker  in  the 
Gospel  of  Christ." 

And  this  he  says,  not  as  extolling  Timothy, 
but  honoring  them,  that  he  sent  them  the  fellow- 
worker,  and  minister  of  the  Gospel.  As  if  he 
had  said,  Having  withdrawn  him  from  his  labors, 
we  have  sent  to  you  the  minister  of  God,  and 
our  fellow- laborer  in  the  Gospel  of  Christ. 

"To  establish  you,  and  to  comfort  you  con- 
cerning your  faith." 

Ver.  3.  "That  no  man  be  moved  by  these 
afflictions." 

What  then  does  he  say  here?  Because  the 
temptations  of  the  teachers  trouble  their  disci- 
ples, and  he  had  then  fallen  into  many  temp- 
tations, as  also  he  himself  says,  that  "Satan 
hindered  us,"  always  saying  this ;  "  both  once," 
he  says,  "and  again  I  would  have  come  to  you," 
and  was  not  able,  which  was  a  proof  of  great 
violence.  And  it  was  reasonable  that  this  should 
trouble  them,  for  they  are  not  so  much  troubled 
at  their  own  temptations,  as  at  those  of  their 
teachers ;  as  neither  is  the  soldier  so  much 
troubled  at  his  own  trials,2  as  when  he  sees  his 
general  wounded.  "  To  establish  you,"  he  says ; 
not  that  they  were  at  all  deficient  in  faith,  nor 
that  they  required  to  learn  anything. 

"  And  to  comfort  you  concerning  your  faith  ; 
that  no  man  be  moved  by  these  afflictions ;  for 
yourselves  know  that  hereunto  we  are  ap- 
pointed." 

Ver.  4.  "  For  verily,  when  we  were  with  you, 
we  told  you  beforehand  that  we  are  to  suffer  af- 
fliction ;  even  as  it  came  to  pass,  and  ye  know." 

Ye  ought  not,  he  says,  to  be  troubled,  for 
nothing  strange,  nothing  contrary  to  expectation 
is  happening ;  which  was  sufficient  to  raise  them 
up.  For  do  you  see  that  on  this  account  also 
Christ  foretold  to  His  disciples?  For  hear  Him 
saying,  "  Now  I  have  told  you  before  it  came  to 
pass,  that  when  it  is  come  to  pass  ye  may  be- 
lieve." (John  xiv.  29.)  For  greatly  indeed, 
greatly  does  it  tend  to  the  comfort  of  others,  to 
have  heard  from  their  teachers  what  is  to  hap- 
pen. For  as  he  that  is  sick,  if  he  hear  from  his 
physician  that  this  or  that  is  taking  place,  is  not 
much  troubled ;  but  if  anything  happen  unex- 
pectedly, as  if  he  too  were  at  a  loss,  and  the 

1  [gal  itfLtU  signifies  "  ye  also,"  or  "  even  ye,"  according  to  the 
connection.  EUioott  thinks  Chrys.  here  displays  his  "  accurate  ob- 
servation of  language,"  —  "ye,  as  well  as  my  other  converts."  — 
J.  A.  B.] 

*  fThe  Greek  word  is  equivalent  to  both  "  temptations  "  and 
"  trials."  "  Temptations  "  formerly  had  a  like  breadth  of  meaning, 
but  has  been  restricted  to  the  bad  sense.  — J.  A.  B.J 


disorder  was  beyond  his  art,  he  is  afflicted  and 
troubled  ;  so  also  is  it  here.  Which  Paul  fore- 
knowing, foretold  to  them,  "  we  are  about  to  be 
afflicted,"  "as  it  came  to  pass,  and  ye  know." 
He  not  only  says  that  this  came  to  pass,  but  that 
he  foretold  many  things,  and  they  happened. 
"  Hereunto  we  are  appointed."  So  that  not 
only  ye  ought  not  to  be  troubled  and  disturbed 
about  the  past,  but  not  even  about  the  future,  if 
any  such  thing  should  happen,  "  for  hereunto  we 
are  appointed." 

Moral.  Let  us  hear,  who  have  ears  to  hear. 
The  Christian  is  appointed  hereunto.  For  con- 
cerning all  the  faithful  is  this  said,  "  Hereunto 
we  are  appointed."  And  we,  as  if  we  were  ap- 
pointed8 for  ease,  think  it  strange  if  we  suffer  any- 
thing ;  and  yet  what  reason  have  we  for  thinking 
anything  strange?  For  no  season  of  affliction 
or  temptation  has  overtaken  us,  but  what  is 
common  to  man.  It  is  a  fit  season  for  us  to 
say  to  you,  "Ye  have  not  yet  resisted  unto 
blood,  striving  against  sin"  (Heb.  xii.  4).  Or 
rather,  this  is  not  seasonable  for  us  to  say  to 
you  —  but  what?  Ye  have  not  yet  despised 
riches.  For  to  them  indeed  these  words  were 
said  with  reason,  when  they  had  lost  all  their  own 
possessions,4  but  this  is  said  to  those  who  retain 
theirs.  Who  has  been  robbed  of  his  riches  for 
Christ's  sake?  Who  has  been  beaten?  Who 
has  been  insulted?  even  in  words,  I  mean. 
What  have  you  to  boast  of?  What  confidence 
have  you  to  say  anything?  So  many  things 
Christ  suffered  for  us  when  we  were  enemies. 
What  can  we  show  that  we  have  suffered  for 
Him?  Nothing  that  we  have  suffered  indeed, 
but  infinite  good  things  that  we  have  received 
from  Him.  Whence  shall  we  have  confidence 
in  that  Day?  Know  ye  not,  that  the  soldier  too, 
when  he  can  show  numberless  wounds  and  scars, 
will  then  be  able  to  shine  in  the  presence  of  the 
king  ?  But  if  he  has  no  good  action  to  show, 
though  he  may  have  done  no  harm,  he  will  take 
rank  among  the  least. 

But,  you  say,  it  is  not  the  season  of  war.  But 
if  it  was,  tell  me,  who  would  contend?  Who 
would  attack?  Who  would  break  through 5  the 
phalanx?  Perhaps  no  one.  For  when  I  see 
that  you  do  not  despise  riches  for  the  sake  of 
Christ,  how  shall  I  believe  that  you  will  despise 
blows?  Tell  me,  do  you  bear  manfully  those 
who  insult  you,  and  do  you  bless  them  ?  You 
do  not  —  but  you  disobey.  What  is  attended 
with  no  danger,  you  do  not ;  and  will  you  en- 
dure blows,  in  which  there  is  much  pain  and  suf- 
fering? Know  ye  not  that  it  is  proper  in  peace 
to  keep  up  the  exercises  of  war?6     Do  you  not 

3  Ktifxtvoi.  He  alludes  to  the  sense  "  laid,"  as  if  it  were  "  laid 
down  to  repose."  *  See  Heb.  x.  34. 

*  £tc£o><r«,  "push  through";  thus  we  read  of  M0t<rpbf,  Angl. 
"  shoving  "  in  hard-fought  battles. 

6  In  pace,  ut  sapiens,  aptarit  idonea  bello.  —  Hor. 


336 


WORKS   OF   ST.    CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  III. 


see  these l  soldiers,  who  though  no  war  disturbs 
them,  but  it  is  profound  peace,  brightening  up 
their  arms,  and  going  forth  with  the  teachers 
who  teach  them  tactics,  into  the  broad  and  level 
plains,  I  may  say,  every  day,  keep  up  with  the 
greatest  strictness  the  exercises  of  war?  Of 
our  spiritual  soldiers,  who  has  done  this?  No 
one.  For  this  reason  we  become  in  war  weak 
and  ignoble,  and  easily  led  captive  by  any. 

But  what  stupidity  is  this,  not  to  think  the 
present  a  season  of  war,  when  Paul  is  crying 
out,  "Yea,  and  all  that  would  live  godly  in 
Christ  Jesus  shall  suffer  persecution"  (2  Tim. 
iii.  12);  and  Christ  says,  "In  the  world  ye 
shall  have  tribulation."  (John  xvi.  33.)  And 
again  the  blessed  Paul  with  a  loud  voice  cries 
out,  saying,  "  Our  wrestling  is  not  against  flesh 
and  blood,"  and  again,  "Stand  therefore,  hav- 
ing girded  your  loins  with  truth."  (Eph.  vi. 
12  and  14.)  Why  dost  thou  arm  us,  tell  me, 
when  it  is  not  war  ?  Why  dost  thou  give  us 
trouble  to  no  purpose?  Thou  puttest  breast- 
plates on  the  soldiers,  when  it  is  allowed  them 
to  rest  and  revive.  But  he  would  have  said, 
Certainly,  however,  though  it  were  not  war,  it 
would  be  right  to  attend  to  the  concerns  of  war. 
For  he  who  in  peace  considers  the  business  of 
battle,  will  be  formidable  in  the  season  of  battle  ; 
but  he  who  is  without  experience  in  the  things 
of  war,  will  be  more  troubled  even  in  peace. 
Why  so  ?  Because  he  will  weep  for  the  things 
which  he  possesses,  and  not  being  able  to  fight 
for  them,  will  be  in  anguish.  For  the  posses- 
sions of  the  cowardly  and  inexperienced  and 
ignoble  in  war,  are  the  property  of  all  who  are 
brave  and  warlike.  So  that  on  this  account 
first  I  arm  you.  But  then  also  the  whole  time 
of  our  life  is  the  season  of  war.  How  and  in 
what  respect  ?  The  devil  is  ever  at  hand.  Hear 
what  it  says,  "  As  a  roaring  lion,  he  walketh 
about,  seeking  whom  he  may  devour."  (1  Pet. 
v.  8.)  Numberless  bodily  affections  assail  us, 
which  it  is  necessary  to  enumerate,  that  we  may 
not  vainly  deceive  ourselves.  For  tell  me,  what 
does  not  war  against  us  ?  Riches,  beauty,  pleas- 
ure, power,  authority,  envy,  glory,  pride?  For 
not  only  does  our  own  glory  war  against  us,  for- 
bidding us  to  descend  to  humility  ;  but  the  glory 
of  others  also,  leading  us  to  envy  and  ill-nature. 
But  what  do  their  opposites,  poverty,  dishonor, 
the  being  despised,  rejected,  the  having  no 
power?  These  things  indeed  are  in  us.  But 
from  men  proceed  wickedness,  plots,  deceits, 
slanders,  assaults  innumerable.  In  like  manner 
on  the  part  of  the  demons,  "  principalities,  pow- 
ers, the  world- rulers  of  this  darkness,  spiritual 
hosts  of  wickedness."  Some  of  us  are  rejoicing, 
others  grieving,  both  are  deviations  from  the 
right   course.      But   health   and   sickness   (war 

1  i.e.  earthly. 


against  us) .  From  what  quarter  will  not  man 
be  falling  into  sin?  Would  you  that  I  should 
tell  you  from  the  beginning,  commencing  even 
immediately  from  Adam?  What  took  captive 
the  first  created  ?  Pleasure,  and  eating,  and  the 
love  of  dominion.  What  the  son  whc  came 
next  after  him?  Grudging  and  envy.  What 
those  in  the  time  of  Noah  ?  Fleshly  pleasures, 
and  the  evils  issuing  from  them.  What  his  son  ? 
Insolence  and  irreverence.  What  the  Sodom- 
ites? Insolence,  wantonness,  and  fullness  of 
bread.  But  often  even  poverty  has  this  effect. 
On  this  account  a  certain  wise  man  said,  "  Give 
me  neither  poverty  nor  riches."  (Prov.  xxx.  8.) 
However  it  is  neither  poverty  nor  riches,  but 
the  will  that  cannot  use  either  of  them.  "  Ac- 
knowledge," he  says,  "  that  thou  passest  through 
the  midst  of  snares."     (Ecclus.  ix.  13.) 

The  blessed  Paul  has  admirably  said,  "  Here- 
unto we  are  appointed."  He  has  not  said 
merely,  that  we  are  tempted,  but  that  "  here- 
unto we  are  appointed,"  as  if  he  had  said,  For 
this  were  we  born/  This  is  our  business,  this 
our  life,  and  dost  thou  seek  rest?  The  execu- 
tioner does  not  stand  over  us,  lacerating  our 
sides,  and  compelling  us  to  sacrifice ;  but  the 
desire  of  riches,  and  of  possessing  more,  is  in- 
stant, tearing  out  our  eyes.  No  soldier  has 
kindled  a  pile,  nor  placed  us  on  a  gridiron,2  but 
more  than  this,  the  flames  of  the  flesh  set  fire 
on  our  souls.  No  king  is  present  promising 
numberless  bounties,  and  putting  us  out  of 
countenance.  But  there  is  present  a  rage  for 
glory,  tickling  us  worse  than  he.  A  great  war, 
truly,  exceedingly  great,  if  we  would  watch. 

And  the  present  season  too  has  its  crowns. 
Hear  Paul  saying,  "  Henceforth  there  is  laid  up 
for  me  the  crown  of  righteousness,  which  the 
righteous  Judge  shall  give  me  .  .  .  and  not  only 
to  me,  but  also  to  all  them  that  have  loved  His 
appearing."  (2  Tim.  iv.  8.)  When  thou  hast 
lost  a  beloved  and  only  son,  whom  thou  wert 
bringing  up  in  much  wealth,  displaying  good 
hopes,  himself  being  the  only  one  to  succeed 
to  thine  inheritance ;  do  not  complain,  but  give 
thanks  to  God,  and  glorify  Him  who  has  taken 
him,  and  in  this  respect  thou  wilt  not  be  worse 
than  Abraham.  For  as  he  gave  him  to  God,  when 
he  commanded  it,  so  thou  hast  not  complained, 
when  He  has  taken  him.  Hast  thou  fallen  into  a 
severe  sickness,  and  do.  many  come,  constrain- 
ing thee,  some  with  charms,  some  with  amulets, 
and  others  with  other  things,  to  remedy  the 
evil  ?  and  hast  thou  borne  it  firmly  and  unflinch- 
ingly from  the  fear  of  God,  and  wouldst  thou 
have  chosen  to  suffer  all  things  rather  than  sub- 
mit to  do  any  of  those   idolatrous   practices? 

8  iirl  KpaTucAiff .  From  the  Latin  "  Craticula."  Such  was  the 
u  Catasta  "  in  the  martyrdom  of  St.  Laurence.  Prud.  Peristegh.  H. 
ii.  399.  An  iron  seat  u  mentioned  as  thus  used*  at  Vienne.  Enseb* 
v.  x. 


Homily  HI.] 


HOMILIES   ON   THESSALONIANS. 


337 


This  brings  to  thee  the  crown  of  martyrdom. 
Doubt  it  not.  And  how  and  by  what  means,  I 
will  tell  thee.  For  as  such  an  one  bears  firmly 
the  pains  of  torture,  so  as  not  to  worship  the 
image,  so  thou  also  bearest  the  sufferings  of  thy 
disease,  so  as  to  want  nothing  of  those  remedies 
which  the  other  offers,  nor  to  do  the  things 
which  he  prescribes.  "  But  those  pains  are  more 
violent " — yes,  but  these  are  of  longer  duration, 
so  that  it  is  the  same  in  the  end;  nay  often 
these  are  more  violent  too.  For  tell  me,  when 
fever  is  raging  and  burning  within,  and  thou 
rejectest  the  charm  that  others  recommend  to 
thee,  hast  thou  not  bound  on  thee  the  crown  of 
martyrdom  ? 

Again,  has  any  one  lost  money  ?  many  advise 
thee  to  have  recourse  to  diviners;  but  thou, 
from  fear  of  God,  because  it  is  forbidden,  choos- 
est  rather  not  to  receive  thy  money  than  to 
disobey  God  —  thou  hast  a  reward  equal  to  him 
who  has  given  it  to  the  poor,  if  having  lost,  thou 
givest  thanks,  and  when  able  to  have  recourse 
to  diviners,  thou  bearest  not  to  receive,  rather 
than  so  to  receive  it.  For  as  he  from  the  fear 
of  God  has  given  all  to  the  needy,  so  thou  also 
from  fear  of  God,  when  they  have  plundered 
thee,  hast  not  recovered  it. 

We  are  the  masters  of  injuring  or  not  injuring 
ourselves.  And  if  you  will,  let  us  make  the 
whole  matter  plain  in  the  case  of  theft  itself. 
The  thief  has  cut  through  the  wall,  he  has 
rushed  into  the  chamber,  he  has  carried  off 
costly  golden  vessels,  and  precious  stones,  in 
short,  he  has  cleared  thy  whole  treasure,  and 
has  not  been  taken.  The  fact  is  grievous,  and 
it  seems  to  be  a  loss ;  still  as  yet  it  is  not  so, 
but  it  depends  on  thee  to  make  it  either  a  loss 
or  a  gain.  And  how,  sayest  thou,  can  this  be  a 
gain  ?  I  will  endeavor  to  show  thee  how,  if  thou 
art  willing,  it  will  be  a  great  gain,  but  if  unwill- 
ing, the  loss  will  be  severer  than  that  which 
has  taken  place.  For  as  in  the  case  of  artificers, 
when  material  is  before  them,  he  who  is  skilled 
in  his  art  uses  it  to  good  purpose,  but  he  that  is 
unskillful  spoils  it,  and  makes  it  a  loss  to  him,  so 
also  in  these  matters.  How  then  will  it  be  a 
gain  ?  If  thou  givest  thanks  to  God,  if  thou 
dost  not  wail  bitterly,  if  thou  utterest  the  words 
of  Job,  "  The  Lord  gave  and  the  Lord  hath 
taken  away.  Naked  came  I  out  of  my  mother's 
womb,  naked  shall  I  also  go  away."  (Job  i.  21, 
Sept.) 

"What?"  sayest  thou,  "the  Lord  hath  taken 
away?  The  thief  hath  taken  away,  and  how 
canst  thou  say,  the  Lord  hath  taken  away?" 
Wonder  not,  for  even  Job,  of  things  which  the 
devil  took  away,  said,  These  the  Lord  hath 
taken  away?  And  shalt  not  thou  say  of  what 
the  thief  took,  The  Lord  hath  taken  away? 
Tell  me,  whom  dost  thou  admire  ?  him  who  has 


bestowed  all  his  goods  upon  the  poor,  or  Job 
for  these  words  ?  Is  he,  who  did  not  then  give, 
inferior  to  him,  who  has  given  alms  ?  For  say 
not,  "  I  feel  no  thankfulness.  The  matter  was 
not  done  with  my  consent,  or  knowledge,  or 
will.  The  robber  took  it.  What  will  be  my  re- 
ward ?  "  Neither  did  these  things  happen  with 
Job's  knowledge  or  will.  For  how  could  it  be? 
Nevertheless,  he  wrestled.1 

And  it  is  in  thy  power  to  receive  as  great  a 
reward,  as  if  thou  hadst  cast  it  away  willingly. 
And  perhaps  we  admire  this  man  more,  who 
thankfully  suffers  wrongs,  than  him  who  gives 
spontaneously.  And  why?  Because  the  latter 
indeed  is  fed  with  praises,  and  supported  by 
conscience,  and  has  good  hopes;  and  having 
before2  borne  manfully  the  privation  of  his 
goods,  he  then  cast  them  away ;  but  the  former, 
whilst  yet  bound  to  them,  was  forcibly  deprived 
of  them.  And  it  is  not  the  same  thing,  having 
first  been  induced  to  part  with  riches,  in  that 
way  to  bestow  them,  as  it  is  while  yet  longing  to 
be  deprived  of  them.  If  thou  wilt  say  these 
words,  thou  wilt  receive  many  times  as  much, 
and  even  more  than  Job.  For  he  received 
twice  as  much  here,  but  to  thee  Christ  has  prom- 
ised a  hundred  fold.  From  the  fear  of  God, 
thou  hast  not  blasphemed?  thou  hast  not  had 
recourse  to  diviners?  suffering  wrong,  thou  hast 
been  thankful?  Thou  art  like  one  who  despises 
wealth,  for  thou  couldest  not  do  this,  hadst  thou 
not  first  despised  it.  And  it  is  not  the  same 
thing  in  a  long  time  to  practice  the  contempt  of 
riches,  and  all  at  once  to  bear  a  loss  that  has 
happened.  Thus  the  loss  becomes  gain,  and 
thou  wilt  not  be  injured,  but  even  benefited  by 
the  devil. 

But  how  does  the  loss  also  become  grievous  ? 
When  thou  losest  thy  soul !  Tell  me,  the  thief 
has  deprived  thee  of  thy  possessions :  wilt  thou 
deprive  thyself  of  salvation  ?  Wherefore,  griev- 
ing at  the  evils  which  thou  hast  suffered  from 
others,  dost  thou  plunge  thyself  into  more  evils  ? 
He  perhaps  has  involved  thee  in  poverty :  but 
thou  perversely  injurest  thyself  in  things  that  are 
fatal.  He  hath  deprived  thee  of  things  that  are 
without  thee,  and  that  hereafter  would  spring 
away  from  thee  even  against  thy  will.  But  thou 
deprivest  thyself  of  the  eternal  riches.  The 
devil  hath  grieved  thee  by  taking  away  thy 
wealth;  do  thou  also  grieve  him,  and  do  not 
delight  him.  If  thou  hast  recourse  to  diviners, 
thou  delightest  him.  If  thou  renderest  thanks 
to  God,  thou  givest  him  his  death-blow. 

And  see  what  happens.  Thou  wilt  not  still 
find  it,  if  thou  goest  to  the  diviners,  for  it  is  not 
in  their  power  to  know;  and  even  if  by  any 
chance  they  have  told  thee,  thou  both  losest  thy 

1  i.e.  with  the  temptation.    See  on  Stat.  Horn.  i. 
*  i.e.  in  preparation. 


338 


WORKS   OF   ST.   CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  III. 


own  soul  besides,  and  thou  wilt  be  derided  by 
thy  brethren,  and  again  wilt  lose  it  wretchedly. 
For  the  demon,  knowing  that  thou  canst  not 
bear  thy  loss,  but  for  the  sake  of  these  things 
deniest  even  thy  God,  again  gives  thee  wealth, 
that  he  may  have  an  opportunity  of  deceiving 
thee  again,  and  making  thee  fall  away.  And  if 
the  diviners  should  tell  thee,  wonder  not.  The 
demon  is  without  body :  he  is  everywhere  going 
about.  It  is  he  who  arms  the  robbers  them- 
selves. For  these  things  do  not  take  place  with- 
out the  demon.  If  therefore  he  arms  them,  he 
knows  also  where  it  is  deposited.  He  is  not  ig- 
norant of  his  own  ministers.  And  this  is  not 
wonderful.  If  he  sees  thee  grieving  at  the  loss, 
he  adds  yet  another  to  it.  If  he  sees  thee  laugh- 
ing at  it,  and  despising  it,  he  will  desist  from 
this  course.  For  as  we  deal  to  our  enemies 
those  things  by  which  we  grieve  them,  but  if  we 
see  that  they  do  not  grieve,  we  henceforth  de- 
sist, as  being  unable  to  plague  them ;  so  does 
the  devil  also. 

What  sayest  thou  ?  Dost  thou  not  see  those 
who  sail  on  the  sea,  how,  when  a  storm  arises, 
they  regard  not  their  wealth,  but  even  throw 
overboard  their  substance?  "O  man,  what 
dost  thou  say?  Art  thou  cooperating  with  the 
storm  and  the  shipwreck  ?  Before  the  wave  has 
taken  away  thy  wealth,  dost  thou  do  it  with 
thine  own  hands?  Why,  before  the  shipwreck, 
dost  thou  wreck  thyself  ?  "  But  indeed  a  rustic 
inexperienced  in  the  trials  of  the  sea  might  say 
this.  But  the  naval  man,  and  one  who  truly 
knows  what  are  the  causes  of  calm,  and  what  of 
storm,  will  even  laugh  at  him  who  talks  thus. 
For  I  throw  it  overboard,  he  says,  that  there 
may  be  no  whelming  sea. *  So  he  who  is  expe- 
rienced in  the  events  and  trials  of  life,  when  he 
sees  the  storm  impending,  and  the  spirits  of 
evil  wishing  to  cause  shipwreck,  throws  over- 
board even  the  remainder  of  his  wealth.  Hast 
thou  been  plundered  ?  Do  alms,  and  thou  light- 
enest  the  ship.  Have  robbers  ravaged  thee? 
Give  what  remains  to  Christ.  So  thou  wilt  con- 
sole thy  poverty  from  thy  former  loss.     Lighten 

1  Calm,  storm,  &c,  seem  to  be  used  here  in  a  relative  sense; 
what  is  a  storm  to  a  deep-laden  vessel  being  less  to  a  light  one. 


the  ship,  do  not  hold  fast  what  remains,  lest  the 
vessel  fill  with  water.  They,  to  preserve  their 
bodies,  throw  their  goods  overboard,  and  wait 
not  for  the  assailing  wave  to  overturn  the  vessel. 
And  wilt  thou  not  stay  the  shipwreck,  that  thou 
mayest  save  souls  ? 

Make  the  trial,  I  beseech  you  —  if  you  disbe- 
lieve, make  the  trial,  and  you  will  see  the  glory 
of  God.  When  anything  grievous  has  happened, 
immediately  give  alms ;  render  thanks  that  it 
has  happened,  and  thou  wilt  see  how  much  joy 
will  come  upon  thee.  For  spiritual  gain,  though 
it  be  small,  is  so  great  as  to  throw  into  the  shade 
all  bodily  loss.  As  long  as  thou  hast  to  give  to 
Christ,  thou  art  rich.  Tell  me,  if  when  thou 
wast  robbed,  the  king  coming  to  thee  held  out 
his  hand,  begging  to  receive  something  from 
thee,  wouldest  thou  not  then  think  thyself  richer 
than  all,  if  the  king  not  even  after  so  great  pov- 
erty was  ashamed  of  thee?  Be  not  carried 
away  with  thy  wealth,  only  overcome  thyself,  and 
thou  wilt  overcome  the  assault  of  the  devil.  It 
is  in  thy  power  to  acquire  great  gain. 

Let  us  despise  wealth,  that  we  may  not  de- 
spise the  soul.    But  how  can  any  one  despise  it? 
Dost  thou   not  see  in  the  case  of   beautiful 
bodies,  and  the  lovers  of  them,  how  as  long  as 
they  are  in  their  sight  the  fire  is  kindled,  the 
flame  rises  bright;  but  when  any  one  has  re- 
moved them  afar  off,  all  is  extinguished,  all  is 
lulled  to  sleep  ;  so  also  in  the  case  of  wealth,  let 
no  one  provide  gold,  nor  precious  stones,  nor 
necklaces;  when  seen,  they  ensnare  the  eyes. 
But  if  thou  wouldest  be  rich  like  the  ancients, 
be  rich  not  in  gold,  but  in  necessary  things,  that 
thou  mayest  bestow  on  others  from  that  whic 
thou  hast  ready.     Be   not  fond  of  ornament- 
Such  wealth  is  both  easy  to  be  plotted  againsE: 
by  robbers,  and  a  thing  that  brings  us  cares  — 
Not  vessels  of  gold  and  silver,  but  let  there  be 
stores  of  bread  and  wine  and  oil,  not  that  being' 
sold  again  they  may  procure  money,  but  tha.* 
they  may  be  supplied  to  those  who  need.    If 
we  withdraw  ourselves  from  those  superfluities, 
we  shall  obtain  the  heavenly  goods  ;  which  God 
grant  that  we  may  all  obtain,  in  Jesus  Christ  our 
Lord,  with  whom,  &c. 


Homily  IV.] 


HOMILIES  ON   THESSALONIANS. 


339 


HOMILY    IV. 


i  Thessalonian?  iii.  5-8. 


« 


For  this  cause  I  also,  when  I  could  no  longer  forbear, 
sent  that  I  might  know  your  faith,  lest  by  any  means 
the  tempter  had  tempted  you,  and  our  labor  should 
be  in  vain.  But  when  Timothy  came  even  now  unto 
us  from  you,  and  brought  us  glad  tidings  of  your 
faith  and  love,  and  that  ye  have  good  remembrance 
of  us  always,  longing  to  see  us,  even  as  we  also  to 
see  you;  for  this  cause,  brethren,  we  were  com- 
forted over  you  in  all  our  distress  and  affliction 
through  your  faith:  for  now  we  live,  if  ye  stand 
fast  in  the  Lord." 


A  question  lies  before  us  to-day,  which  is 
much  disputed,  and  which  is  gathered  from 
many  sources.  But  what  is  this  question  ?  "  For 
this  cause,"  he  says,  "  when  I  could  no  longer 
forbear,  I  sent  Timothy  that  I  might  know  your 
faith."  What  sayest  thou?  He,  who  knew  so 
many  things,  who  heard  unutterable  words,  who 
ascended  even  to  the  third  heaven,  doth  not  he 
know,  even  when  he  is  in  Athens  ?  And  yet  the 
distance  is  not  great,  nor  has  he  been  long 
parted  from  them.  For  he  says,  "Being  be- 
reaved of  you  for  a  short  season."  He  does  not 
know  the  affairs  of  the  Thessalonians,  but  is 
compelled  to  send  Timothy  to  know  their  faith, 
"  lest,"  he  says,  "  the  tempter  had  tempted  you, 
and  our  labors  should  be  in  vain." 

What  then  is  one  to  say?  That  the  Saints 
knew  not  all  things.  And  this  one  might  learn 
from  many  instances,  both  of  the  early  ones, 
and  of  those  who  came  after  them,  as  Elisha 
knew  not  concerning  the  woman  (2  Kings  iv. 
27)  ;  as  Elijah  said  to  God,  "I  only  am  left,  and 
they  seek  my  life."  Wherefore  he  heard  from 
God,  "  I  have  left  me  seven  thousand  men." 
(1  Kings  xix.  10  and  18.)  Samuel  again,  when 
he  was  sent  to  anoint  David ;  "  The  Lord  said 
to  him,  Look  not  on  his  countenance,  nor  on 
the  height  of  his  stature ;  because  I  have  re- 
jected him :  for  God  seeth  not  as  man  seeth ; 
for  man  looketh  on  the  outward  appearance,  but 
God  looketh  on  the  heart."     (1  Sam.  xvi.  7.) 

And  this  comes  to  pass  out  of  great  care  on 
God's  part.  How,  and  in  what  way?  For  the 
sake  both  of  the  Saints  themselves,  and  of  those 
who  believe  in  them.  For  as  He  permits  that 
there  should  be  persecutions,  so  He  permits  that 
they  should  also  be  ignorant  of  many  things, 
that  they  may  be  kept  humble.  On  this  account 
also  Paul  said,  "  There  was  given  to  me  a  thorn 
in  the  flesh,  a  messenger  of  Satan  to  buffet  me, 
that  I  should  not  be  exalted  over  much."  (2  Cor. 
xii.  7.)     And  again,  lest  others  also  should  have 


great  imaginations  concerning  them.  For  if 
they  thought  they  were  gods  from  their  miracles, 
much  more  if  they  had  continued  always  know- 
ing all  things.  And  this  again  he  also  says: 
"Lest  any  man  should  account  of  me  above 
that  which  he  seeth  me  to  be,  or  heareth  from 
me."  (2  Cor.  xii.  6.)  And  again  hear  Peter, 
when  he  healed  the  lame  man,  saying,  "Why 
fasten  ye  your  eyes  on  us,  as  though  by  our  own 
power  or  godliness  we  had  made  him  to  walk." 
(Acts  iii.  12.)  And  if  even  when  they  were 
saying  and  doing  these  things,  and  from  these 
few  and  small  miracles,  evil  imaginations  were 
thus  engendered,  much  more  would  they  have 
been  from  great  ones 

But  for  another  reason  too  these  things  were 
allowed.  For  that  no  one  might  be  able  to  say 
it  was  as  being  other  than  men  that  they  per- 
formed those  excellent  actions,  and  so  all  should 
become  supine,  he  shows  their  infirmity,  that 
from  their  folly  he  might  cut  off  every  pretext 
of  shamelessness.  For  this  reason  he  is  ignorant, 
for  this  reason  also,  after  having  purposed,  he 
frequently  does  not  come,  that  they  might  per- 
ceive there  were  many  things  he  knew  not. 
Great  advantage  then  came  of  this.  For  if  there 
were  some  yet  saying,  "  This  man  is  that  power 
of  God  which  is  called  Great"  (Acts  viii.  10), 
and  some,  that  it  is  this  person,  or  that ;  unless 
these  things  had  been  so,  what  would  they  not 
have  thought  ? 

But  here,  however,  there  seems  to  be  a  cen- 
sure on  them.  But  quite  otherwise,  it  even 
shows  their  admirable  conduct,  and  proves  the 
excess  of  their  temptations.  How?  Attend. 
For  if  thou  first  sayest  "  that  we  are  appointed 
thereunto,"  and  "  let  no  man  be  moved,"  why 
again  dost  thou  send  Timothy,  fearing  that 
something  might  happen  which  thou  wouldest 
not  wish.  This  indeed  he  does  from  his  great 
love.  For  those  who  love  suspect  even  what  is 
safe,  from  their  exceeding  warmth.  But  this  is 
caused  by  their  great  temptations.  For  I  said 
indeed  that  we  are  appointed  thereunto,  but  the 
excess  of  the  temptations  alarmed  me.  Where- 
fore he  has  not  said,  I  send  him  as  condemning 
you,  but  "when  I  could  no  longer  forbear," 
which  is  rather  an  expression  of  love. 

What  means,  "  Lest  by  any  means  the  tempter 
had  tempted  you  "  ?  Dost  thou  see  that  to  be 
shaken  in  afflictions  proceeds  from  the  devil, 
and  from  his  seduction  ?    For  when  he  cannot 


340 


WORKS   OF   ST.    CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  IV. 


shake  us  ourselves,  he  takes  another  way,1  and 
shakes  the  weaker  sort  through  our  means,  which 
argues  exceeding  infirmity,  and  such  as  admits 
of  no  excuse ;  as  he  did  in  the  case  of  Job, 
having  stirred  up  his  wife,  "  Speak  some  word 
against  the  Lord,"  she  says,  "  and  die."  (Job 
ii.  9,  Sept.)     See  how  he  tempted  her. 

But  wherefore  has  he  not  said,  "  shaken,"  but 
"tempted"?  Because,  he  says,  I  only  sus- 
pected so  much,  as  that  you  had  been  tempted. 
For  he  does  not  call  his  temptation  a  wavering. 
For  he  who  admits  his  attack  is  shaken. 
Strange  !  how  great  is  the  affection  of  Paul ! 
He  did  not  regard  afflictions,  nor  plots  against 
him.  For  I  think  that  he  then  remained  there, 
as  Luke  says,  that  "  he  abode  in  Greece  three 
months,  when2  the  Jews  laid  a  plot  against  him." 
(Acts  xx.  3.) 

His  concern  therefore  was  not  for  his  own 
dangers,  but  for  his  disciples.  Seest  thou  how 
he  surpassed  every  natural  parent  ?  For  we  in 
our  afflictions  and  dangers  lose  the  remembrance 
of  all.  But  he  so  feared  and  trembled  for  his 
children,  that  he  sent  to  them  Timothy,  whom 
alone  he  had  for  his  consolation,  his  companion 
and  fellow-laborer,  and  him  too  in  the  very 
midst  of  dangers. 

"And  our  labor,"  he  says,  "should  be  in 
vain."  Wherefore  !  for  even  if  they  were  turned 
aside,  it  was  not  through  thy  fault,  not  through 
thy  negligence.  But  nevertheless,  though  this 
were  the  case,  I  think,  from  my  great  love  of 
the  brethren,  that  my  labor  had  been  rendered 
vain. 

"  Lest  by  any  means  the  tempter  had  tempted 
you."  But  he  tempts,  not  knowing  whether  he 
shall  overthrow.  Does  he  then,  even  though 
he  knows  not,  yet  assail  us,  and  do  we,  who 
know  that  we  shall  completely  overcome  him, 
not  watch  ?  But  that  he  does  attack  us,  though 
he  knows  not,  he  showed  in  the  case  of  Job. 
For  that  evil  demon  said  to  God,  "  Hast  Thou 
not  made  a  hedge  about  his  things  within, 
land  his  things  without  ?  Take  away  his  goods, 
and  surely  he  will  bless3  Thee  to  Thy  face." 
(Job  i.  10,  n,  Sept.)  He  makes  trial;  if  he 
sees  anything  weak,  he  makes  an  attack,  if  strong, 
he  desists.  "And  our  labor,"  he  says,  "be  in 
vain."  Let  us  all  hear,  how  Paul  labored.  He 
does  not  say  work,  but  "labor";  he  does  not 
say,  and  you  be  lost,  but   "our  labor."4     So 

^  l  crepwc  might  be  taken  thus,  "  when  he  cannot  shake  us  other- 
wise," the  other  being  a  last  resource  against  us. 

*  The  Greek  will  read  thus,  but  will  hardly  bear  the  construction. 
[The  plot  was  at  the  end  of  the  three  months,  and  caused  him  to 
change  his  course.  — J.  A.  B.] 

*  [The  Hebrew  word  denotes  both  bless  and  curse  (perhaps  both 
derived  from  the  idea  of  supplicating  God).  The  Septuagint  trans- 
lates "  bless"  in  i.  xi  and  ii.  5,  and  evades  by  paraphrases  in  i.  5, 
44  devised  evil  against  God,"  and  ii.  9,  "  say  some  word  unto  the 
Lord."  — J.  A.  B.] 

1  [Three  Greek  words  are  employed.  The  Apostle's  term  would 
be  better  translated  "  toil " ;  and  so  Chrys.  remarks,  "  He  does  not 
say  work,  but  toil."    The  same  distinction  is  to  be  observed  in  Rev. 


that  even  if  anything  had  happened,  it  would  be 
happening  with  some  reason.  But  that  it  did 
not  happen  was  a  great  wonder.  These  things 
indeed  we  expected,  he  says,  but  the  contrary 
happened.  For  not  only  did  we  receive  from 
you  no  addition  to  our  affliction  but  even  con- 
solation. 

"  But  when  Timothy  came  even  now  unto 
us,  and  brought  us  glad  tidings  of  your  faith  and 
love."  "  Brought  us  glad  tidings,"  he  says.  Do 
you  see  the  excessive  joy  of  Paul  ?  he  does  not 
say,  brought  us  word,  but  "brought  us  glad 
tidings."  So  great  a  good  did  he  think  their 
steadfastness  and  love.  For  it  was  necessary, 
the  one  remaining  firm,  that  the  other  also  must 
be  steadfast.  And  he  rejoiced  in  their  love, 
because  it  was  a  sign  of  their  faith.  "  And  that 
ye  have,"  he  says,  "good  remembrance  of  us 
always,  longing  to  see  us,  even  as  we  also  to  see 
you."  That  is,  with  praises.  Not  when  we 
were  present,  nor  when  we  were  working  mira- 
cles, but  even  now,  when  we  are  far  off,  and  are 
scourged,  and  are  suffering  numberless  evils, 
"  ye  have  good  remembrance  of  us."  Hear  how 
disciples  are  admired,  who  have  good  remem- 
brance of  their  teachers,  how  they  are  called 
blessed.  Let  us  imitate  these.  For  we  benefit 
ourselves,  not  those  who  are  loved  by  us. 
"Longing  to  see  us,"  he  says,  "as  we  also  to 
see  you."  And  this  too  cheered  them  ;  for  to 
him  who  loves,  to  perceive  that  the  beloved 
person  knows  that  he  is  beloved,  is  a  great  com- 
fort and  consolation. 

"  For  this  cause,  brethren,  we  were  comforted 
over  you  in  all  our  distress  and  affliction  through 
your  faith.  For  now  we  live  if  ye  stand  fast  in 
the  Lord."  What  is  comparable  to  Paul,  who 
thought  the  salvation  of  his  neighbors  was  his 
own,  being  so  affected  towards  all,  as  really 
towards  members  ?  Who  now  would  be  able  to 
break  forth  into  such  speech?  Or  rather,  who 
will  ever  be  able  to  have  such  a  thought  ?  He 
did  not  require  them  to  be  thankful  to  him  for 
the  trials  which  he  suffered  for  them,  but  he  was 
thankful  to  them  that  they  were  not  moved  on 
account  of  his  trials.  As  if  he  had  said,  that  to 
you  rather  than  to  us  was  injury  done  by  those 
trials;  you  were  tempted  rather  than  we,  you 
who  suffered  nothing,  rather  than  we  who 
suffered.  Because,  he  says,  Timothy  brought 
us  these  good  tidings,  we  feel  nothing  of  our 
sorrows,  but  were  comforted  in  all  our  affliction ; 
not  in  this  affliction  only.  For  nothing  besides 
can  touch  a  good  teacher,  as  long  as  the  affairs 
of  his  disciples  go  on  to  his  mind.  Through 
you,  he  says,  we  were  comforted ;  you  confirmed 
us.     And  yet  the  reverse  was  the  case.     For 

xiv.  13,  "  in  that  they  shall  rest  from  their  toils,  for  their  works  fol- 
low with  them."  The  verb  here  employed  by  Chrys.,  *'  how  Pfcol 
labored,"  signifies  weary  or  suffering  labor.  —J.  A.  B.j 


Homily  IV.] 


HOMILIES   ON   THESSALONIANS. 


341 


that  when  suffering  they  did  not  yield,  but  stood 
manfully,  was  sufficient  to  confirm  the  disciples. 
But  he  reverses  the  whole  matter,  and  turns  the 
encomium  over  to  them.  You  have  anointed 
us,  he  says,  you  have  caused  us  to  breathe  again ; 
you  have  not  suffered  us  to  feel  our  trials.  And 
he  has  not  said,  we  breathe  again,  nor  we  are 
comforted,  but  what?  "Now  we  live,"  showing 
that  he  thinks  nothing  is  either  trial  or  death, 
but  their  stumbling,  whereas  their  advancement 
was  even  life.  How  else  could  any  one  have 
set  forth  either  the  sorrow  for  the  weakness  of 
one's  disciples,  or  the  joy  ?  He  has  not  said  we 
rejoice,  but  "  we  live,"  the  life  to  come. 

So  that  without  this  we  do  not  even  think  it 
life  to  live.  So  ought  teachers  to  be  affected,  so 
disciples  ;  and  there  will  be  nothing  at  any  time 
amiss.1  Then  further  softening  the  expression, 
see  what  he  says, 

Ver.  9,  10.  "  For  what  thanksgiving  can  we 
render  again  unto  God  for  you,  for  all  the  joy 
wherewith  we  joy  for  your  sakes  before  our  God  ; 
night  and  day  praying  exceedingly  that  we  may 
see  your  face,  and  may  perfect  that  which  is 
lacking  in  your  faith?" 

Not  only,  he  says,  are  ye  the  causes  of  life  to 
us,  but  also  of  much  joy,  and  so  much  that  we 
cannot  worthily  give  thanks  to  God.  Your2  good 
behavior,  he  says,  we  consider  to  be  the  gift  of 
God.  Such  kindnesses  have  you  shown  to  us, 
that  we  think  it  to  be  of  God ;  yea,  rather,  and 
it  is  of  God.  For  such  a  disposition  of  mind 
comes  not  of  a  human  soul  or  carefulness. 

"  Night  and  day,"  he  says,  "  praying  exceed- 
ingly." This  too  is  a  sign  of  joy.  For  as  any 
husbandman,  hearing  concerning  his  land  that 
has  been  tilled  by  himself,  that  it  is  burdened 
with  ears  of  grain,  longs  with  his  own  eyes  to  see 
so  pleasant  a  sight,  so  Paul  to  see  Macedonia. 
"Praying  exceedingly."  Observe  the  excess; 
"  that  we  may  see  your  face,  and  may  perfect 
that  which  is  lacking  in  your  faith." 

Here  there  is  a  great  question.  For  if  now 
thou  livest,  because  they  stand  fast,  and  Timothy 
brought  thee  "  glad  tidings  of  their  faith  and 
love,"  and  thou  art  full  of  so  much  joy  as  not 
to  be  able  worthily  to  give  thanks  to  God,  how 
sayest  thou  here  that  there  are  deficiencies  in 
their  faith  ?  Were  those  then  the  words  of  flat- 
tery? By  no  means,  far  be  it.  For  previously 
he  testified  that  they  endured  many  conflicts, 
and  were  no  worse  affected  than  the  Churches 
in  Judaea.  What  then  is  it?  They  had  not 
enjoyed  the  full  benefit  of  his  teaching,  nor 
learned  all  that  it  behoved  them  to  learn.    And 


1  aroitov. 

*  So  Musculus,  who  may  have  had  MS.  authority.  All  Greek 
copies  except  Catena  read  ''our,"  which  requires  Kar6p9»iui  to  be 
rendered  "  achievement"  in  a  less  proper  sense.  [Three  MSS.  give 
"our,"  and  although  two  of  them  form  a  group  that  abounds  in 
wrong  alterations,  yet  the  present  reading  is  probably  correct. — 
J*  A.  B.J 


this  he  shows  toward  the  end.  Perhaps  there 
had  been  questionings  among  them  concerning 
the  Resurrection,  and  there  were  many  who 
troubled  them,  not  by  temptations,  nor  by  dan- 
gers, but  by  acting  the  part  of  teachers.  This 
is  what  he  says  is  lacking  in  their  faith,  and  for 
this  reason,  he  has  so  explained  himself,  and  has 
not  said,  that  you  should  be  confirmed,  where 
indeed  he  feared  concerning  the  faith  itself,  "  I 
have  sent,"  he  says,  "Timothy  'to  confirm 
you/  "  but  here,  "  to  perfect  that  which  is  lack- 
ing," which  is  rather  a  matter  of  teaching  than 
of  confirming.  As  also  he  says  elsewhere,  "  that 
ye  may  be  perfected  unto  every  good  work." 
(From  1  Cor.  i.  10,  or  2  Tim.  iii.  17.)  Now  the 
perfected  thing  is  one  in  which  there  is  some 
little  deficiency :  for  it  is  that  which  is  brought 
to  perfection. 

Ver.  n,  12.  "Now  may  our  God  and  Father 
Himself,  and  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ  direct  our 
way  unto  you :  and  the  Lord  make  you  to  in- 
crease and  abound  in  love  one  toward  another, 
and  toward  all  men,  even  as  we  also  do  toward 
you." 

This  is  a  proof  of  excessive  love,  that  he  not 
only  prays  for  them  by  himself,  but  even  in  his 
Epistles  inserts  his  prayer.  This  argues  a  fer- 
vent soul,  and  one  truly  not  to  be  restrained. 
This  is  a  proof  of  the  prayers  made  there  also, 
and  at  the  same  time  also  an  excuse,  as  showing; 
that  it  was  not  voluntarily,  nor  from  indolence, 
that  they8  did  not  go  to  them.  As  if  he  had 
said,  May  God  Himself  cut  short  the  tempta- 
tions that  everywhere  distract  us,  so  that  we 
may  come  directly  to  you.  "And  the  Lord 
make  you  to  increase  and  abound."  Do  you 
see  the  unrestrainable  madness  of  love  that  is 
shown  by  his  words?  "Make  you  to  increase* 
and  abound,"4  instead  of  cause  you  to  growl 
As  if  one  should  say,  that  with  a  kind  of  super- 
abundance he  desires  to  be  loved  by  them; 
"  Even  as  we  do  also  toward  you,"  he  says.  Our 
part  is  already  done,  we  pray  that  yours  may  be 
done.  Do  you  see  how  he  wishes  love  to  be 
extended,  not  only  toward  one  another,  but 
everywhere?  For  this  truly  is  the  nature  of 
godly  love,  that  it  embraces  all.  If  you  love 
indeed  such  an  one,  but  do  not  love  such  an 
one,  it  is  human  love.  But  such  is  not  ours. 
"  Even  as  we  do  also  toward  you." 

Ver.  13.  "To  the  end  He  may  establish  your 
hearts  unblamable  in  holiness  before  our  God 
and  Father,  at  the  coming  of  our  Lord  Jesus 
Christ  with  all  His  saints." 

He  shows  that  love  produces  advantage  to 
themselves,  not  to  those  who  are  loved.  I  wish, 
he  says,  that  this  love  may  abound,  that  there, 
may  be  no  blemish.     He  does  not  say  to  stablish 

*  St.  Paul  and  Silvanus. 

*  The  words  are  strong,  "  make  you  to  exceed  and  overflow.** 


342 


WORKS   OF   ST.   CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  IV. 


you,  but  your  hearts.  "For  out  of  the  heart 
come  forth  evil  thoughts."  (Matt.  xv.  19.) 
For  it  is  possible,  without  doing  anything,  to  be 
a  bad  man ;  as  for  example,  to  have  envy,  un- 
belief, deceit,  to  rejoice  at  evils,  not  to  be  lov- 
ing, to  hold  perverted  doctrines,  all  these  things 
are  of  the  heart ;  and  to  be  pure  of  these  things 
is  holiness.  For  indeed  chastity  is  properly  by 
preeminence  called  holiness,  since  fornication 
and  adultery  is  also  uncleanness.1  But  univer- 
sally all  sin  is  uncleanness,  and  every  virtue  is 
purity.  For,  "  Blessed,"  it  is  said,  "  are  the  pure 
in  heart."  (Matt.  v.  8.)  By  "the  pure"  He 
means  those  who  are  in  every  way  pure. 

For  other  things  also  know  how  to  pollute 
the  soul,  and  no  less.  For  that  wickedness 
defiles  the  soul,  hear  the  prophet,  saying,  "O 
Jerusalem,  wash  thine  heart  from  wickedness." 
(Jer.  iv.  14.)  And  again,  "Wash  you,  make 
you  clean,  put  away  the  wickednesses  from  your 
souls."  (Isa.  i.  16,  Sept.)  He  did  not  say 
"  fornications,"  so  that  not  only  fornication,  but 
other  things  also  defile  the  soul. 

"To  establish  your  hearts,"  he  says,  "unblam- 
able in  holiness  before  our  God  and  Father,  at 
the  coming  of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ  with  all 
His  saints."  Therefore  Christ  will  then  be  a 
Judge,  but  not  before  Him  (only),  but  also 
before  the  Father  we  shall  stand  to  be  judged. 
Or  does  he  mean  this,  to  be  unblamable  before 
God,  as  he  always  says,  "  in  the  sight  of  God," 
for  this  is  sincere  virtue  —  not  in  the  sight  of 
men? 

It  is  love  then  that  makes  them  unblamable. 
For  it  does  make  men  really  unblamable.  And 
once  when  I  was  discoursing  of  this  to  a  certain 
one,  and  saying,  that  love  makes  men  unblam- 
able, and  that  love  to  our  neighbor  does  not 
suffer  any  entrance  of  transgression,  and  in  my 
discourse  going  over,  and  pursuing  all  the  rest 
—  some  one  of  my  acquaintance  interposing 
himself  said,  What  then  of  fornication,  is  it  not 
possible  both  to  love,  and  to  commit  fornication  ? 
And  it  is  indeed  from  love  that  this  springs. 
Covetousness  indeed,  and  adultery,  and  envy, 
and  hostile  designs,  and  everything  of  this  sort 
can,  from  love  of  one's  neighbor,  be  stopped ; 
but  how  fornication?  he  said.  I  therefore  told 
him,  that  even  this  can  love  stop.  For  if  a  man 
should  love  a  woman  that  commits  fornication, 
he  will  endeavor  both  to  draw  her  off  from  other 
men,  and  not  himself  also  to  add  to  her  sin. 
So  that  to  commit  fornication  with  a  woman  is 
the  part  of  one  exceedingly  hating  her  with 
whom  he  commits  the  fornication,  but  one  who 
truly  loved  her  would  withdraw  her  from  that 
abominable  practice.  And  there  is  not,  there 
is  not  any  sin,  which  the  power  of  love,  like 
fire,  cannot   consume.     For  it  is   easier  for  a 

1  This  is  legally  opposed  to  holiness. 


vile  faggot  to  resist  a  great  pile  of  fire,  than  for 
the  nature  of  sin  to  resist  the  power  of  love. 

This  then  let  us  plant  in  our  own  souls,  that 
we  may  stand  with  all  the  Saints.  For  they  all 
pleased  God  by  their  love  to  their  neighbor. 
Whence  was  Abel  slain,  and  did  not  slay? 
From  his  vehement  love  to  his  brother,  he 
could  not  even  admit  such  a  thought.  Whence 
was  the  destructive  pest  of  envy  received  by 
Cain  ?  For  I  will  no  longer  call  him  the  brother 
of  Abel !  Because  the  foundations  of  love  had 
not  been  firmly  fixed  in  him.  Whence  did  the 
sons  of  Noah  obtain  a  good  report?  was  it  not 
because  they  vehemently  loved  their  father,  and 
did  not  endure  to  see  his  exposure  ?  And  whence 
was  the  other  cursed  ?  was  it  not  from  not  loving 
him  ?  And  whence  did  Abraham  obtain  a  good 
report?  was  it  not  from  love  in  doing  what  he 
did  concerning  his  nephew?  what  he  did  as  to 
his  supplication  for  the  Sodomites  ?  For  strongly, 
strongly,  were  the  Saints  affected  with  love  and 
with  sympathy. 

For  consider,  I  pray ;  Paul,  he  that  was  bold 
in  the  face  of  fire,  hard  as  adamant,  firm  and 
unshaken,  on  every  side  compact,  riveted  in 
the  fear  of  God,  and  inflexible ;  for,  "  who  (said 
he)  shall  separate  us  from  the  love  of  Christ? 
Shall  tribulation,  or  anguish,  or  persecution,  or 
famine,  or  nakedness,  or  peril,  or  sword  "  ?  (Rom. 
viii.  35)  he  that  was  bold  in  the  face  of  all 
these  things,  and  of  earth  and  sea,  he  that 
laughed  to  scorn  the  adamantine  gates  of  death,2 
whom  nothing  ever  withstood,  —  he,  when  he 
saw  the  tears  of  some  whom  he  loved,  was  so 
broken  and  crushed,  —  the  adamantine  man,  — 
that  he  did  not  even  conceal  his  feelings,  but 
said  straightway,  "What  do  ye,  weeping  and 
breaking  my  heart?"  (Acts  xxi.  13.)  What  say- 
est  thou,  tell  me?  Had  a  tear  the  power  to 
crush  that  soul  of  adamant  ?  Yea,  he  says,  for  I 
hold  out  against  all  things  except  love.  This 
prevails  over  me,  and  subdues  me.  This  is  the 
mind  of  God.  An  abyss  of  water8  did  not  crush 
him,  and  a  few  tears  crushed  him.  "  What  do 
ye,  weeping  and  crushing  my  heart  ?  "  For  great 
is  the  force  of  love.  Dost  thou  not  see  him 
again  weeping  ?  Why  weepest  thou  ?  Tell  me. 
"  By  the  space  of  three  years,"  he  says,  "  I 
ceased  not  to  admonish  every  one  night  and  day 
with  tears."  (Acts  xx.  31.)  From  his  great 
love  he  feared,  lest  some  plague  should  be  intro- 
duced among  them.  And  again,  "  For  out  of 
much  affliction  and  anguish  of  heart  I  wrote 
unto  you  with  many  tears."    (2  Cor.  ii.  4.) 

And  what  did  Joseph  ?  tell  me,  that  firm  one, 
who  stood  up  against  so  great  a  tyranny,  who 
appears  so  noble  against  so  great  a  flame  of  love, 

3  [Field's  MSS.  all  give  "death";  the  previous  editions  all  had 
"  Hades,"  a  natural  alteration.  Cases  are  not  very  rare  in  which 
the  editions  were  without  known  MS.  support.  — J*  A.  B.] 

3  Perhaps  alluding  to  a  Cor.  xi.  a$. 


Homily  IV.] 


HOMILIES   ON   THESSALONIANS. 


345- 


who  so  out-battled  and  overcame  the  madness 
of  his  mistress.  For  what  was  there  not  then  to 
charm  him  ?  A  beautiful  person,  the  pride  of 
rank,  the  costliness  of  garments,  the  fragrance 
of  perfumes,  (for  all  these  things  know  how  to 
soften  the  soul,)  words  more  soft  than  all  the 
rest !  For  ye  know  that  she  who  loves,  and  so 
vehemently,  nothing  so  humble  but  she  will 
bring  herself  to  say  it,  taking  upon  her  the  atti- 
tude of  a  supplicant.  For  so  broken  was  this 
woman,  though  wearing  gold,  and  being  of  royal 
dignity,  that  she  threw  herself  at  the  knees  per- 
haps of  the  captive  boy,  and  perhaps  even  in- 
treated  him  weeping  and  clasping  his  knees,  and 
had  recourse  to  this  not  once,  and  a  second 
time,  but  oftentimes.  Then  he  might  see  her 
eye  shining  most  brilliantly.  For  it  is  probable 
that  she  not  simply  but  with  excessive  nicety 
would  set  off  her  beauty ;  as  wishing  by  many 
nets  to  catch  the  lamb  of  Christ.  Add  here  I 
pray  also  many  magic  charms.  Yet  nevertheless 
this  inflexible,  this  firm  man,  of  rocky  hardness, 
when  he  saw  his  brothers  who  had  bartered  him 
away,  who  had  thrown  him  into  a  pit,  who  had 
sold  him,  who  had  even  wished  to  murder  him, 
who  were  the  causes  both  of  the  prison  and  the 
honor,  when  he  heard  from  them  how  they  had 
worked  upon  their  father,  (for,  we  said,  it  says, 
that  one  was  devoured  by  a  wild  beast  [Gen. 
xxxvii.  20,  and  lxiv.  28,])  he  was  broken, 
softened,  crushed,  "  And  he  wept,"  it  says,  and 
not  being  able  to  bear  his  feelings,  he  went  in, 
and  composed  himself  (Gen.  xliii.  30),  that  is, 
wiped  away  his  tears. 

What  is  this  ?  dost  thou  weep,  O  Joseph  ?  and 
yet  the  present  circumstances  are  deserving  not 
of  tears,  but  of  anger,  and  wrath,  and  indigna- 
tion, and  great  revenge  and  retribution.  Thou 
hast  thine  enemies  in  thy  hands,  those  fratri- 
cides ;  thou  canst  satiate  thy  wrath.  And  yet 
neither  would  this  be  injustice.  For  thou  dost 
not  thyself  begin  the  unjust  acts,  but  defendest 
thyself  against  those  who  have  done  the  wrong. 
For  look  not  to  thy  dignity.  This  was  not  of 
their  contrivance,  but  of  God,  who  shed  His 
favor  upon  thee.  Why  dost  thou  weep  ?  But  he 
would  have  said,  far  be  it  that  I,  who  in  all  things 
have  obtained  a  good  report,  should  by  this  re- 
membrance of  wrongs  overturn  them  all.  It  is 
truly  a  season  for  tears.  I  am  not  more  brutish 
than  beasts.  They  pour  out  a  libation  to  nature, 
whatever  harm  they  suffer.  I  weep,  he  says,  that 
they  ever  treated  me  thus. 

This  man  let  us  also  imitate.  Let  us  mourn 
and  weep  for  those  who  have  injured  us.  Let  us 
not  be  angry  with  them.  For  truly  they  are 
worthy  of  tears,  for  the  punishment  and  con- 
demnation to  which  they  make  themselves  liable. 


I  know,  how  you  now  weep,  how  you  rejoice, 
both  admiring  Paul,  and  amazed  at  Joseph,  and 
pronouncing  them  blessed.  But  if  any  one  has 
an  enemy,  let  him  now  take  him  into  recollec- 
tion, let  him  bring  him  to  his  mind,  that  whilst 
his  heart  is  yet  warm  with  the  remembrance  of 
the  Saints,  he  may  be  enabled  to  dissolve  the 
stubbornness  of  wrath,  and  to  soften  what  is 
harsh  and  callous.  I  know,  that  after  your  de- 
parture hence,  after  that  I  have  ceased  speaking, 
if  anything  of  warmth  and  fervor  should  remain, 
it  will  not  be  so  great,  as  it  now  is  whilst  you  are 
hearing  me.  If  therefore  any  one,  if  any  one 
has  become  cold,  let  him  dissolve  the  frost. 
For  the  remembrance  of  injuries  is  truly  frost 
and  ice.  But  let  us  invoke  the  Sun  of  Right- 
eousness, let  us  entreat  Him  to  send  His  beams 
upon  us,  and  there  will  no  longer  be  thick  ice, 
but  water  to  drink. 

If  the  fire  of  the  Sun  of  Righteousness  has 
touched  our  souls,  it  will  leave  nothing  frozen, 
nothing  hard,  nothing  burning,1  nothing  unfruit- 
ful. It  will  bring  out  all  things  ripe,  all  things 
sweet,  all  things  abounding  with  much  pleasure. 
If  we  love  one  another,  that  beam  also  will 
come.  Allow  me,  I  beseech  you,  to  say  these 
things  with  earnestness.  Cause  me  to  hear,  that 
by  these  words  we  have  produced  some  effect ; 
that  some  one  has  gone  and  thrown  both  his 
arms  about  his  enemy,  has  embraced  him,  has 
twined  himself  around  him,  has  warmly  kissed 
him,  has  wept.  And  though  the  other  be  a  wild 
beast,  a  stone,  or  whatever  he  be,  he  will  be 
made  gentle  by  such  affectionate  kindness.  For 
on  what  account  is  he  thine  enemy?  Hath  he 
insulted  thee?  yet  he  has  not  injured  thee  at  all. 
But  dost  thou  for  the  sake  of  money  suffer  thy 
brother  to  be  at  enmity  with  thee  ?  Do  not  so, 
I  beseech  you.  Let  us  do  away  all.  It  is  our 
season.  Let  us  use  it  to  good  purpose.  Let  us 
cut  asunder  the  cords  of  our  sins.  Before  we 
go  away  to  judgment,  let  us  not  ourselves  judge 
one  another.  *'  Let  not  the  sun "  (it  is  saich 
"go  down  upon  your  wrath."  (Eph.  iv.  26.) 
Let  no  one  put  it  off.  These  puttings  off  pro- 
duce delays.  If  you  have  deferred  it  to-day, 
you  blush  the  more,  and  if  you  add  to-morrow, 
the  shame  is  greater,  and  if  a  third  day,  yet 
worse.  Let  us  not  then  put  ourselves  to  shame, 
but  let  us  forgive,  that  we  may  be  forgiven.  And 
if  we  be  forgiven,  we  shall  obtain  all  blessings, 
through  Jesus  Christ  our  Lord,  with  whom,  &c. 

1  The  translator  suggests  Milton's  sense:  — 

"  The  parching  air 
Burns  frore,  and  cold  performs  tn'  effect*  of  fire." 

The  extreme  harshness  of  some  fruits  without  the  sun  may  be  meant. 
In  Horn.  xvi.  on  St.  Matt.  Ben.  p.  215  A,  tb  *av<rrurd  is  used  for 
"  combustibles,"  but  there  is  a  various  reading,  wraraarurd  in  one 
MS.;  see  Ed.  Field,  p.  339. 


344 


WORKS   OF  ST.   CHRYSOSTOM. 


[HOMILT  V. 


HOMILY   V. 


i  Thessaloxians  hr.  1-3. 


44  Finally  then,  brethren,  we  beseech  and  exhort  Ton  in 
the  I»rd  Jesns,  that,  as  ye  received  of  us  how  ye 
ought  to  walk  and  to  please  God,  so   ye   abound 
more  and  more.     For  ye  know  what  charge  we  gave  : 
yon  through  the  Lord  Jesns  Christ.    For  this  is  the  | 
will  of  God,  even  your  sanctification." 

When  he  has  met  what  was  pressing,  and| 
what  was  upon  his  hands,  and  is  about  hence- 
forth to  enter  upon  things  that  are  perpetual, : 
and  which  they  ought  continually  to  hear,  he 
adds  this  expression,  "finally,"  that  is,  always | 
and  forever.  "  We  beseech  and  exhort  you  in  ! 
the  Lord."  Strange  !  He  does  not  even  speak 
of  himself  as  of  sufficient  credit  to  exhort  And 
yet  who  was  so  worthy  of  credit?  But  he  takes 
Christ  along  with  him.  We  exhort  you,  he  says, 
by  God.  Which  also  he  said  to  the  Corinthians, 
"God  entreats  (exhorts)  you  through  us."  (2 
Cor.  v.  20.)  "  That  as  ye  received  of  us."  This 
"  received  "  is  not  of  words  only,  but  of  actions 
also,  viz. "  how  ye  ought  to  walk,"  and  he  means 
thereby  the  whole  conduct  of  life.  "And  to 
please  God,  that  ye  abound  more  and  more. 
That  is,  that  by  more  abounding  ye  do  not 
stop  at  the  limit  of  the  commandments,  but 
that  you  even  go  beyond  them.  For  this  it 
is,  that  "ye  abound  more  and  more."  In 
what  preceded  he  accepts  the  marvel  of  their 
firm  faith,  but  here  he  regulates  their  life. 
For  this  is  proficiency,  even  to  go  beyond  the 
commandments  and  the  statutes.  For  no  longer 
from  the  constraint  of  a  teacher,  but  from  their 
own  voluntary  choice,  is  all  this  performed.  For 
as  the  earth  ought  not  to  bear  only  what  is  thrown 
upon  it,  so  too  ought  the  soul  not  to  stop  at  those 
things  which  have  been  inculcated,  but  to  go  be- 
yond them.  Do  you  see  that  he  has  properly 
said  "to  go  beyond"?  For  virtue  is  divided 
into  these  two  things,  to  decline  from  evil,  and 
to  do  good.  For  the  withdrawal  from  evil  is  not 
sufficient  for  the  arrival  at  virtue,  but  it  is  a  kind 
of  path,  and  a  beginning  leading  thereto ;  still 
we  have  need  of  great  alacrity.  The  things  there- 
fore to  be  avoided  he  tells  them  in  the  order  of 
commandment.  And  justly.  For  these  things 
indeed  being  done  bring  punishment,  but  not 
being  done,  yet  bring  no  praise.  The  acts  of 
virtue  however,  such  as  to  give  away  our  goods, 
and  such  like,  are  not  of  the  order  of  command- 
ment, he  says.  But  what?  "  He  that  is  able  to 
receive,  let  him  receive."  (Matt.  xix.  12.)  It 
is  profitable,  therefore,  that  as  he  with  much  fear 
and  trembling  had  given  these  commandments 


to  them,  he  also  by  these  letters  reminds  them 
of  that  his  care.  Wherefore  he  does  not  repeat 
them,  but  reminds  them  of  them. 

"  For  ye  know,"  he  says,  "  what  charge  wc 
gave  you  through  our  Lord  Jesns  Christ.     For 
this  is  the  will  of  God,  even  your  sanctification. " 
And  observe  how  he  nowhere  so  vehemently 
glances  at  any  other  thing,  as  at  this.     As  else- 
where also  he  writes  to  this  effect;    "Follow 
after  peace  with  all  men,  and  the  sanctification 
without  which   no   man  shall  see  the   Lord." 
(Heb.  xiL  14.)     And  why  dost  thou  wonder, 
if  he  everywhere  writes  to  his  disciples  upon 
this  subject,  when  even  in  his  Epistle  to  Timo- 
thy he  has  said,  "  Keep  thyself  pure."     (1  Tim. 
v.  22.)    Also  in  his  second  Epistle  to  the  Corin- 
thians he  has  said,  "  In  much  patience,  in  fast- 
ings, by  pureness."    (2  Cor.  vi.  5, 6.)     And  one 
may  find  this  in  many  places,  both  in  this  Epis- 
tle to  the  Romans,  and  everywhere,  and  in  all 
his  Epistles.     For  in  truth  this  is  an  evil  perni- 
cious to  all.    And  as  a  swine  full  charged  with 
mire,  wherever  he  enters,  fills  all  places  with  his 
ill  odor,  and  chokes  the  senses  with  dung,  so  too 
does  fornication;  it  is  an  evil  not  easy  to  be 
washed  away.     But  when  some  even  who  have 
wives  practice  this,  how  excessive  is  the  outrage ! 
" For  this,"  he  say's,  "is  the  will  of  God,  even 
your  sanctification,  that  ye  abstain  from  all  for- 
nication."    For  there  are  many  forms  of  disor- 
derly conduct.    The  pleasures  of  wantonness  are 
of  many  kinds  and  various,  it  were  not  tolerable 
to  mention  them.     But  having  said  "  from  all 
fornication,"  he  leaves  it  to  those  who  know 
them. 

Ver.  4,  5 .  "  That  each  one  of  you  know  how 
to  possess  himself  of  his  own  vessel  in  sanctifi- 
cation and  honor,  not  in  the  passion  of  lust,  even 
as  the  Gentiles  which  know  not  God." 

He  says,  "  That  each  one  of  you  know  how  to 
possess  himself  of  his  own  vessel."  It  is,  then, 
a  matter  to  be  learnt,  and  that  diligently,  not  to 
be  wanton.  But  we  possess  our  vessel,  when  it 
is  pure ;  when  it  is  impure,  sin  possesses  it  And 
reasonably.  For  it  does  not  do  the  things  which 
we  wish,  but  what  sin  commands.  "  Not  in  the 
passion  of  lust,"  he  says.  Here  he  shows  also 
the  manner,  according  to  which  one  ought  to  be 
temperate ;  that  we  should  cut  off  the  passions 
of  lust.  For  luxury,  and  wealth,  and  idleness, 
and  sloth,  and  ease,  and  all  such  things,  lead  us 
on  to  irregular  lust.  "Even  as  the  Gentiles," 
he  says,  "  which  know  not  God."    For  such  are 


Homily  V.] 


HOMILIES   ON  THESSALONIANS. 


345 


they  who  do  not  expect  that  they  shall  suffer 
punishment. 

Ver.  6.  "  That  no  man  transgress,  and  wrong 
his  brother  in  the  matter." 

He  has  well  said,  "  that  no  man  transgress." 
To  each  man  God  has  assigned  a  wife,  he  has 
set  bounds  to  nature,  that  intercourse  with  one 
only  :  therefore  intercourse  with  another  is  trans- 
gression, and  the  taking  of  more  than  belongs  to 
one,1  and  robbery;  or  rather  it  is  more  cruel 
than  any  robbery;  for  we  grieve  not  so  much, 
when  our  riches  are  carried  off,  as  when  mar- 
riage is  invaded.  Dost  thou  call  him  brother, 
and  wrongest  him,  and  that  in  things  which  are 
unlawful?  Here  he  speaks  concerning  adultery, 
but  above  also  concerning  "  all  fornication."  For 
since  he  was  about  to  say,  "  That  no  man*  trans- 
gress and  wrong  his  brother,"  Do  not  think,  he 
says,  that  I  say  this  only  in  the  case  of  brethren ; 
you  must  not  have  the  wives  of  others  at  all,  nor 
even  women  that  have  no  husbands,  and  that 
are  common.  You  must  abstain  from  "  all  for- 
nication " ;  "  Because,"  he  says,  "  the  Lord  is 
an  avenger  in  all  these  things."  He  exhorted 
them  first,  he  shamed  them,  saying,  "even  as 
the  Gentiles."  Then  from  reasonings  he  showed 
the  impropriety  of  defrauding  a  brother.  After- 
wards he  adds  the  principal  thing ;  "  Because," 
he  says,  "  the  Lord  is  an  avenger  in  all  these 
things,  as  also  we  forewarned  you  and  testified." 
For  we  do  not  these  things  without  being  pun- 
ished, neither  do  we  enjoy  so  much  pleasure,  as 
we  undergo  punishment. 

Ver.  7.  "  For  God  called  us  not  for  unclean- 
ness,  but  in  sanctification." 

Because  he  had  said  "  his  brother,"  and  had 
also  added,  that  God  is  the  avenger,  showing 
that  even  if  an  unbeliever  has  suffered  this,  he 
who  has  done  it  shall  suffer  punishment,  he  says, 
it  is  not  as  avenging  him  that  He  punishes  thee, 
but  because  thou  hast  insulted  Himself.  He 
Himself  called  thee,  thou  hast  insulted  Him  who 
called  thee.     On  this  account,  he  has  added, 

Ver.  8.  "  Therefore  he  that  rejecteth,  reject- 
eth  not  man,  but  God,  who  giveth  His  Holy 
Spirit  unto  you." 

So  that  even  if  thou  shouldest  defile  the  Em- 
press, he  says,  or  even  thine  own  handmaid, 
that,  hath  a  husband,  the  crime  is  the  same. 
Why?  Because  He  avenges  not  the  persons 
that  are  injured,  but  Himself.  For  thou  art 
equally  defiled,  thou  hast  equally  insulted  God ; 
for  both  the  one  and  the  other  is  adultery,  as 
both  the  one  and  the  other  is  marriage.  And 
though  thou  shouldest  not  commit  adultery,  but 
fornication,  though  the  harlot  has  no  husband,  yet 
nevertheless  God  avenges,  for  He  avenges  Him- 

1  n\tovt£iaf  E.  V.  "  covetousness."  [The  corresponding  verb 
is  here  inadequately  translated  "  wrong."  It  designates  a  man  who 
is  not  content  with  his  own  wife,  but  takes  possession  of  his  brother's. 
—  J.  A.  B.] 


self.  For  thou  dost  this  act,  not  despising  the 
man,2  so  much  as  God.  And  it  is  manifest  from 
this,  that  thou  doest  it  concealing  it  from  man, 
but  thou  pretendest  that  God  doth  not  see  thee. 
For  tell  me,  if  one  who  was  thought  worthy  of 
the  purple,  and  of  infinite  honor  from  the  king 
(Emperor),  and  was  commanded  to  live  suitably 
to  the  honor,  should  go  and  defile  himself  with 
any  woman ;  whom  has  he  insulted  ?  her,  or  the 
king  who  gave  him  all  ?  She  indeed  is  insulted 
too,  but  not  equally. 

Wherefore,  I  beseech  you,  let  us  guard  against 
this  sin.  For  as  we  punish  women,  when,  being 
married  to  us,  they  give  themselves  to  others, 
so  also  are  we  punished,  though  not  by  the 
Roman  laws,  yet  by  God.  For  this  also  is  adul- 
tery. For  not  only  is  adultery  committed  in 
doing  so  by  her  who  is  married  to  another,  but 
by  him  also,  who  is  yoked  to  a  wife.  Attend 
carefully  to  what  I  say.  For  although  what  is 
said  is  offensive  to  many,  it  is  necessary  to  be 
said,  to  set  the  matter  right  for  the  future.  Not 
only  is  this  adultery,  when  we  defile  a  woman 
who  is  married  to  a  man ;  but  if  we  ourselves 
being  married  to  a  woman  defile  one  who  is 
free  and  disengaged,  the  matter  is  adultery. 
For  what,  if  she  with  whom  the  adultery  is  com- 
mitted is  not  bound?  Yet  art  thou  bound. 
Thou  hast  transgressed  the  law.  Thou  hast 
injured  thine  own  flesh.  For  tell  me,  where- 
fore dost  thou  punish  thy  wife,  if  she  commit 
fornication  with  a  man  who  is  loosed,  and  has 
not  a  wife?  Because  it  is  adultery.  Why? 
Yet  he  who  defiled  her  has  not  a  wife,  but  she 
is  bound  to  a  husband.  Well  then,  thou  also 
art  bound  to  a  wife ;  so  that  in  like  manner  thy 
offence  also  is  adultery.  For  it  is  said,  "  Every 
one  that  putteth  away  his  wife,  saving  for  the 
cause  of  fornication,  maketh  her  an  adulteress : 
and  whosoever  shall  marry  her  when  she  is  put 
away,  committeth  adultery."  (Matt.  v.  32.)  If 
he  who  marries  her  who  is  divorced  commits 
adultery,  he  who,  with  a  wife  of  his  own,  defiles 
himself  also  with  that  other — it  is  manifest  to 
every  one.  But  perhaps  to  you  who  are  men, 
enough  has  been  said  on  this  subject.  For  con- 
cerning them  that  are  such,  Christ  says,  "  Their 
worm  will  not  die  and  the  fire  will  not  be 
quenched."  (Mark  ix.  44.)  But  for  the  sake 
of  the  young  it  is  necessary  to  speak  to  you,  not 
to  the  young  themselves  so  much,  but  to  you. 
For  these  things  are  suitable  not  to  them  only, 
but  also  to  you.  And  how?  I  will  now  tell 
you.  He  who  has  not  learnt  to  commit  forni- 
cation, will  neither  know  how  to  commit  adul- 
tery. But  he  who  walloweth  among  harlots, 
will  quickly  also  arrive  at  the  other,  and  will 
defile  himself,  if  not  with  the  married,  yet  with 
those  who  are  disengaged. 

*  ixtlvov,  i.e.  the  husband. 


346 


WORKS   OF   ST.   CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  V. 


What  then  do  I  advise,  so  as  to  extirpate  the 
roo'ts?  So  many  of  you  as  have  young  sons, 
and  are  bringing  them  up  to  a  worldly  life,1 
quickly  draw  them  under  the  yoke  of  marriage. 
For  since  whilst  he  is  yet  young  desires  trouble 
him,  for  the  time  before  marriage,  by  admoni- 
tions, threats,  fears,  promises,  and  numberless 
other  methods  restrain  them.  But  at  the  season 
of  marriage,  let  no  one  defer  it.  Behold,  I 
speak  the  words  of  a  match-maker,  that  you 
should  let  your  sons  marry.  But  I  am  not 
ashamed  to  speak  thus,  since  not  even  Paul  was 
ashamed  to  say,  "  Defraud  ye  not  one  the  other  " 
(i  Cor.  vii.  5),  which  seems  more  shameful  than 
what  I  have  said ;  yet  he  was  not  ashamed. 
For  he  did  not  pay  heed  to  words,  but  to  the 
acts  that  were  set  right  by  words.  When  thy 
son  is  grown  up,  before  he  enters  upon  warfare, 
or  any  other  course  of  life,  consider  of  his  mar- 
riage. And  if  he  sees  that  thou  wilt  soon  take 
a  bride  for  him,  and  that  the  time  intervening 
will  be  short,  he  will  be  able  to  endure  the  flame 
patiently.  But  if  he  perceives  that  thou  art  re- 
miss and  slow,  and  waitest  until  he  shall  acquire 
a  large  income,  and  then  thou  wilt  contract  a 
marriage  for  him,  despairing  at  the  length  of 
the  time,  he  will  readily  fall  into  fornication. 
But  alas  !  the  root  of  evils  here  also  is  the  love 
of  money.  For  since  no  one  cares  how  far  his 
son  shall  be  sober  and  modest,  but  all  are  mad 
for  gold,  for  this  reason  no  one  makes  this  a 
matter  of  concern.  Wherefore  I  exhort  you 
first  to  regulate  well  their  souls.  If  he  find  his 
bride  chaste,  and  know  that  body  alone,  then 
will  both  his  desire  be  vehement,  and  his  fear 
of  God  the  greater,  and  the  marriage  truly  hon- 
orable, receiving  bodies  pure  and  undefiled ; 
and  the  offspring  will  be  full-charged  with  bless- 
ing, and  the  bride  and  bridegroom  will  comply 
with  one  another,  for  both  being  inexperienced 
in  the  manners  of  others,  they  will  submit  to 
one  another.  But  one  that  begins  when  younger 
to  wax  wanton,  and  to  have  experience  of  the 
ways  of  harlots,  for  the  first  and  second  evening 
will  praise  his  own  wife ;  but  after  that  he  will 
soon  fall  back  into  that  wantonness,  seeking  that 
dissolute  and  disorderly  laughter,  the  words  that 
are  full  of  base  import,  the  dissolute  deport- 
ment,2 and  all  the  other  indecency,  which  it  is 
not  tolerable  that  we  should  mention.  But  a 
woman  of  free  estate  would  not  endure  to  make 
such  exhibitions,  nor  to  tarnish  herself.  For 
she  was  espoused  to  her  husband  to  be  his  part- 
ner in  life,  and  for  the  procreation  of  children, 
not  for  the  purposes  of  indecency  and  laughter ; 
that  she  might  keep  the  house,  and  instruct  him 


1  [i.e.  not  designing  them  to  religious  celibacy.  —  J.  A.  B.] 
*  <T\rf^ara  SiaKtK\a<rn«va.    See  on  1  Tim.  i.  17,  Horn,  iv.,  where 
be  advises  the  wife  to  please  her  husband  by  modesty  and  simplicity. 


also  to  be  grave,  not  that  she  might  supply  to 
him  the  fuel  of  fornication. 

But  the  gestures8  of  a  harlot  seem  to  you 
agreeable.     I  know  it.     For  the  Scripture  says, 
"The  lips  of  a  strange  woman  drop  honey." 
(Prov.  v.  3.)    For  on  this  account  I  take  all  this 
trouble,  that  ye  may  have  no  experience  of  that 
honey,  for  it  straightway  turns  into  gall.     And 
this  also  the  Scripture  says,  "  Who  for  a  season  is 
smooth  to  thy  throat,  but  afterwards  thou  shalt 
find  her  more  bitter  than  gall,  and  sharper  than  a 
two-edged  sword."     (Prov.  v.  3,  4,  Sept.)    What 
sayest  thou  ?     Bear  with  me  speaking  somewhat 
impure,  if  I  may  say  so  —  and  expressing  my- 
self as  one  shameless  and  unblushing.     For  I  do 
not  submit  to  this  willingly,  but  on  account  of 
those  who  are  shameless  in  their  actions,  I  am 
compelled  to  speak   this  sort  of  -words.     And 
many  such  we  see  even  in  the  Scriptures.     For 
even    Ezekiel,    reproaching    Jerusalem,    utters 
many  such  things,  and  is  not  ashamed.     And 
justly.     For  he  did  not  say  them  from  his  own 
inclination,  but  from  his  concern.     For  although 
the  words  seem  to  be  indecent,  yet  his  aim  is 
not   indecent,  but   even   highly  becoming  one 
who  wishes  to  banish  uncleanness  from  the  soul. 
For  if  the  shameless  soul  does  not  hear  the  very 
words,  it  is  not  affected.     For  a  physician  wish- 
ing  to  remove   a  putrid  sore,  first  thrusts  his 
fingers  into  the  wound,  and  if  he  does  not  first 
defile  his  healing  hands,  he  will  not  be  able  to 
cure  it.     So  it  is  with  me.     Unless  I  first  defile 
my  mouth,  that  heals  your  passions,  I  shall  not 
be  able  to  heal  you.     But  rather  neither  is  my 
mouth  defiled,  nor  his  hands.    Why  then  ?    Be- 
cause the  uncleanness  is  not  that  of  nature,  nor 
from   our  own   body,4  as  neither  in  that  case 
from   his   hands,  but   from   what   is   another's. 
But  if  where  the  body  is  another's,  he  does  not 
refuse  to  dip  his  own  hands,  tell  me,  shall  we 
refuse,  where  it  is  our  own  body  ?     For  you  arc 
our  body,  sickly  indeed  and  impure,  but  ours 
nevertheless. 

What  then  is  this  which  I  say,  and  for  which 
I  have  made  so  long  a  digression  ?  A  garment 
indeed  which  your  slave  wears,  you  would  not 
choose  ever  to  wear,  being  disgusted  on  account 
of  its  filth,  but  you  would  rather  go  naked  than 
make  use  of  it.  But  a  body  that  is  unclean  and 
filthy,  and  which  is  used  not  only  by  your  slave, 
but  by  numberless  others,  that  will  you  abuse, 
and  not  be  disgusted?  Are  you  ashamed  at 
hearing  this  ?  But  be  ashamed  of  the  actions, 
not  of  the  words.  And  I  pass  over  all  other 
things,  the  rudeness,  and  the  corruption  of  their 
manners,   the   servility   and   illiberality  of  the 


3  [One  MS.  has  "  words,"  which  seems  to  suit  the 
better.— J.  A.  B.] 

4  Downes  would  read  <rr6f*.aro«,  "  mouth." 


Homily  V.] 


HOMILIES   ON  THESSALONIANS. 


347 


rest  of  their  life.  Tell  me,  should  you  and  your 
servant  go  to  the  same  woman?  and  I  wish  it 
were  only  your  servant,  and  not,  it  may  be,  the 
executioner  !  And  yet  you  could  not  bear  to 
take  the  executioner  by  the  hand ;  but  her  who 
has  been  made  one  body  with  him  you  kiss  and 
embrace,  and  do  not  shudder,  nor  fear !  Are 
you  not  ashamed  ?  are  you  not  abashed  ?  are  you 
not  pierced  with  anguish  ? 

I  said  indeed  to  your  fathers,  that  they  ought 
early  to  lead  you  to  marriage :  but  nevertheless 
neither  are  you  without  liability  to  punishment. 
For  if  there  were  not  other  young  men  also, 
more  numerous  than  you,  living  in  chastity,  both 
formerly,  and  now,  there  would  perhaps  be  some 
excuse  for  you.  But  if  there  are,  how  can  you 
say,  that  we  were  not  able  to  restrain  the  flame 
of  lust  ?  For  they,  who  have  been  able,  are  your 
accusers,  in  that  they  are  partakers  of  the  same 
nature.  Hear  Paul  saying,  "  Follow  after  peace 
.  .  .  and  the  sanctification,  without  which  no 
man  shall  see  the  Lord."  (Heb.  xii.  14.)  Is 
not  this  threat  sufficient  to  terrify  you  ?  Do  you 
see  others  continuing  altogether  in  chastity,  and 
in  gravity  passing  their  lives;  and  cannot  you 
command  yourself  even  so  long  as  the  period 
of  youth?  Do  you  see  others  ten  thousand 
times  overcoming  pleasure,  and  cannot  you  once 
refrain?  With  your  leave,  I  will  tell  you  the 
cause.  For  youth  is  not  the  cause,  since  then 
all  young  men  would  be  dissolute.  But  we  thrust 
ourselves  into  the  fire.  For  when  you  go  up  to 
the  theater,  and  sit  feasting  your  eyes  with  the 
naked  limbs  of  women,  for  the  time  indeed  you 
are  delighted,  but  afterwards,  you  have  nourished 
thence  a  mighty  fever.  When  you  see  women 
exhibited  as  it  were  in  the  form  of  their  bodies, 
and  spectacles  and  songs  containing  nothing  else 
but  irregular  loves :  such  a  woman,  it  is  said, 
loved  such  a  man,  and  not  obtaining  him,  hanged 
herself;  and  unlawful  loves  having  mothers  for 
their  object ;  when  you  receive  these  things  by 
hearing  also,  and  through  women,  and  through 
figures,  yea,  and  even  through  old  men,  (for 
many  there  put  masks  upon  their  faces,  and 
play  the  parts  of  women,)  tell  me,  how  will  you 
be  able  to  continue  chaste  afterwards,  these  nar- 
ratives, these  spectacles,  these  songs  occupying 


your  soul,  and  dreams  of  this  sort  henceforth 
succeeding.  For  it  is  the  nature  of  the  soul  for 
the  most  part  to  raise  visions  of  such  things,  as 
it  wishes  tor  and  desires  in  the  daytime.  There- 
fore when  you  there  both  see  base  actions,  and 
hear  baser  words,  and  receive  indeed  the  wounds 
but  do  not  apply  the  remedies,  how  will  not  the 
sore  naturally  be  increased?  how  will  not  the 
disease  become  more  intense;  and  in  a  much 
greater  degree  than  in  our  bodies?  For  if  we 
were  willing,  our  will  admits  of  correction  more 
easily  than  our  bodies.  For  there  indeed  drugs, 
and  physicians,  and  time  are  required,  but  here 
it  is  sufficient  having  but  the  will,  to  become 
both  good  and  bad.  So  that  you  have  rather 
admitted  the  disorder.  When  therefore  we 
gather  to  us  indeed  the  things  that  injure,  but 
pay  no  regard  to  the  things  that  benefit,  how 
can  there  ever  be  any  health? 

On  this  account  Paul  said,  "  even  as  the  Gen- 
tiles who  knew  not  God."  Let  us  be  ashamed, 
let  us  be  afraid,  if  the  Gentiles,  that  know  not 
God,  are  often  chaste.  Let  us  turn  for  shame, 
when  we  are  worse  than  they.  It  is  easy  to 
achieve  chastity,  if  we  will,  if  we  withdraw  our- 
selves from  those  things  that  are  injurious,  since 
it  is  not  even  easy  to  avoid  fornication,  if  we 
will  not.  For  what  is  more  easy  than  to  walk  in 
the  market-place  ?  but  from  the  excess  of  lazi- 
ness it  is  become  difficult,  not  only  in  the  case 
of  women,  but  sometimes  even  in  that  of  men. 
What  is  more  easy  than  to  sleep  ?  but  we  have 
made  even  this  difficult.  Many  however  of  the 
rich  toss  themselves  through  a  whole  night,  from 
their  not  waiting  for  the  need  of  sleep,  and  then 
sleeping.  And  in  short  nothing  is  difficult,  when 
men  are  willing  ;  as  nothing  is  easy,  when  they 
are  unwilling ;  for  we  are  masters  of  all  these 
things.  On  this  account  the  Scripture  says,  "  If 
ye  be  willing  and  hear  me."  (Isa.  i.  19,  Sept.) 
And  again,  "  If  ye  be  unwilling,  and  hear  not." 
(Ver.  20.)  So  that  all  depends  upon  being 
willing  or  unwilling.  On  this  account  we  both 
are  punished  and  are  praised.  But  may  it  be 
ours,  being  of  those  who  are  praised,  to  obtain 
the  promised  blessings,  by  the  grace  and  lov- 
ingkindness,  &c. 


34« 


WORKS   OF   ST.   CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  VI. 


HOMILY    VI. 

i  Thessalonians  iv.  9,  10. 


u  But  concerning  love  of  the  brethren  we l  have  no  need 
to  write  unto  you :  for  ye  yourselves  are  taught  of 
God  to  love  one  another;  for  indeed  ye  do  it  toward 
all  the  brethren,  and  those  which  are  in  all  Mace- 
donia." 

Why  then  having  discoursed  with  them  earn- 
estly concerning  chastity,  and  being  about  to 
discourse  about  the  duty  of  working,  and  about 
the  not  sorrowing  for  the  departed,  does  he  in- 
troduce that  which  was  the  principal  of  all  good 
things,  love,  as  if  he  were  passing  it  over,  say- 
ing, "  We.  have  no  need  to  write  to  you  "  ?  This 
also  is  from  his  great  wisdom,  and  belongs  to 
spiritual  instruction.  For  here  he  shows  two 
things.  First,  that  the  thing  is  so  necessary,  as 
not  to  require  instruction.  For  things  that  are 
very  important  are  manifest  to  all.  And  sec- 
ondly, by  saying  this  he  makes  them  more 
ashamed  than  if  he  had  admonished  them.  For 
he  who  thinks  that  they  have  behaved  aright, 
and  therefore  does  not  admonish  them,  even  if 
they  had  not  behaved  aright,  would  the  sooner 
lead  them  to  it.  And  observe,  he  does  not 
speak  of  love  towards  all,2  but  of  that  towards 
the  brethren.  "  We  have  no  need  to  write  unto 
you."  He  ought  then  to  have  been  silent,  and 
to  say  nothing,  if  there  was  no  need.  But  now 
by  saying  there  is  no  need,  he  has  done  a  greater 
thing,  than  if  he  had  said  it. 

"  For  ye  yourselves  are  taught  of  God."  And 
see  with  how  high  a  praise  he  has  made  God 
their  Teacher  in  this  matter.  Ye  need  not,  he 
says,  to  learn  from  man.  Which  also  the  prophet 
says,  "and  they  shall  all  be  taught  of  God." 
(Isa.  liv.  13.)  "For  ye  yourselves,"  he  says, 
"  are  taught  of  God  to  love  one  another.  For 
indeed  ye  do  it  toward  all  the  brethren,  and 
those  which  are  in  all  Macedonia  " ;  and  toward 
all  the  others,  he  means.  These  words  are  very 
encouraging  to  make  them  do  so.  And  I  do 
not  merely  say,  that  ye  are  taught  of  God,  but 
I  know  it  from  the  things  which  you  do.  And 
in  this  respect  he  bore  many  testimonies  to 
them. 

"  But  we  exhort  you,  brethren,  that  ye  abound 
more  and  more,  and  study ; "  that  is,  increase 
and  study. 

Ver.  11,12.  "To  be  quiet,  and  to  do  your  own 

1  [Chrys.  reads  "  we,"  as  do  many  N.  T.  documents;  yet  "  ye  " 
is  pretty  certainly  right,  having  been  altered  because  "  ye  have  no 
need  to  write  to  you  "  is  a  harsh  construction.  The  "  and  "  after 
"  brethren  "  is  quite  certainly  genuine  for  Chrys.,  but  has  very  slight 
authority  for  the  N.  T.  text.  — J.  A.  B.] 

*  <t>i\a6t\<t>ia  is  strictly  "  lovingness  toward  brethren,"  not 
merely  "  as  of  brethren." 


business,  and  to  work  with  your  hands,  even  as 
we  charged  you :  that  ye  may  walk  honesdy* 
toward  them  that  are  without,  and  may  have 
need  of  nothing." 

He  shows  of  how  many  evils  idleness  is  the 
cause,  and  of  how  many  benefits  industry.  And 
this  he  makes  manifest  from  things  which  hap- 
pen among  us,  as  he  often  does,  and  that  wisely. 
For  by  these  things  the  majority  are  led  on 
more  than  by  spiritual  things.  For  it  is  a  mark 
of  love  to  our  neighbors  not  to  receive  from 
them,  but  to  impart  to  them.  And  observe. 
Being  about  to  exhort  and  admonish,  he  places 
in  the  middle  their  good  conduct,  both  that  they 
may  recover  even  from  the  preceding  admoni- 
tion, and  from  the  threat,  when  he  said,  "  He 
therefore  that  rejecteth,  rejecteth  not  man,  but 
God,"  and  that  they  may  not  be  restive  at  this. 
And  this  is  the  effect  of  working,  that  one  does 
not  receive  of  others,  nor  live  idly,  but  by  work- 
ing imparts  to  others.  For  it  is  said,  "It  is 
more  blessed  to  give  than  to  receive."  (Acts 
xx.  35.)  "And  to  work,"  he  says,  "with  your 
hands."  Where  are  those,  who  look  out  for 
work  that  is  spiritual  ?  Seest  thou  how  he  takes 
from  them  every  excuse,  saying,  "with  your 
hands  "  ?  But  does  one  practice  fasting  with  his 
hands?  or  watchings  all  night?  or  lyings  on  the 
ground  ?  This  no  one  can  say.  But  he  is  speak- 
ing of  spiritual  work.  For  it  is  truly  spiritual, 
that  one  should  by  working  impart  to  others, 
and  there  is  nothing  equal  to  this.  "That ye 
may  walk,"  he  says,  "  becomingly."  Seest  thou 
whence  he  touches  them?  He  has  not  said, 
that  ye  may  not  be  shamed  by  begging.  But 
he  has  indeed  insinuated  the  same,  yet  he  puts 
it  in  a  milder  way,  so  as  both  to  strike  and  not 
to  do  this  severely.  For  if  those  who  are  among 
us  are  offended  at  these  things,  much  more 
those  who  are  without,  finding  numberless  accu- 
sations and  handles,  when  they  see  a  man  who 
is  in  good  health  and  able  to  support  himself, 
begging  and  asking  help  of  others.  Wherefore 
also  they  call  us  Christ-mongers.  On  this  ac- 
count, he  means,  "the  name  of  God  is  blas- 
phemed." (Rom.  ii.  24.)  But  none  of  these 
things  has  he  stated ;  but  that  which  was  able 
to  touch  them  most  nearly,  the  disgracefulness 
of  the  thing. 

Ver.  13.  "  But  we  would  not  have  you  igno- 
rant, brethren,  concerning  them  that  are  asleep ; 

8  [This  ought  to  be  now  rendered  "  becomingly,"  the  English 
word  "  honestly  "  having  ceased  to  carry  that  meaning.  —  J.  A.  B.J 


Homily  VI.] 


HOMILIES   ON   THESSALONIANS. 


349 


that  ye  sorrow  not,  even  as  the  rest,  which  have 
no  hope." 

These  two  things,  poverty  and  despondency, 
distressed  them  most,  which  also  pertain  to  all 
men.  See  therefore  how  he  remedies  them. 
But  their  poverty  arose  from  their  goods  being 
taken  from  them.  But  if  he  commands  those, 
whose  goods  had  been  taken  from  them  for 
Christ's  sake,  to  support  themselves  by  working, 
much  more  then  others.  For  that  they  were 
taken  away  is  manifest  from  his  saying,  Ye  be- 
came partakers1  with  the  churches  of  God. 
How  partakers  with  them  ?  "  And  ye  took  joy- 
fully the  spoiling  of  your  possessions."     (Heb. 

x.  34.) 

Here  he  proceeds  now  to  start  his  discourse 

concerning  the  Resurrection.  And  why  ?  Had 
he  not  discoursed  with  them  upon  that  point  ?  * 
Yes,  but  here  he  glances  at  some  further  mys- 
tery. What  then  is  this?  "That  we  that  are 
alive,"  he  says,  "  that  are  left  unto  the  coming 
of  the  Lord,  shall  in  nowise  precede  them  that 
are  fallen  asleep."  The  discourse  then  of  the 
Resurrection  was  sufficient  to  comfort  him  that 
was  grieving.  But  that  which  is  now  said  is 
sufficient  also  to  make  the  Resurrection  emi- 
nently worthy  of  credit.  But  first  let  us  speak 
of  what  precedes,  "  But  we  would  not  have  you 
ignorant,  brethren,  concerning'  them  that  are 
asleep ;  that  ye  sorrow  not,  even  as  the  rest, 
which  have  no  hope."  See  how  here  also  he 
treats  them  mildly.  He  does  not  say,  "  Are  ye 
so  without  understanding?"  as  he  said  to  the 
Corinthians,  "  foolish  "  ?  that,  knowing  there  is 
a  resurrection,  ye  so  sorrow,  as  those  who  do 
not  believe  ;  but  he  speaks  very  mildly,  showing 
respect  to  their  other  virtues.  And  he  has  not 
said  "  concerning  the  dead,"  but "  them  that  are 
asleep,"  3  even  at  the  beginning  suggesting  con- 
solation to  them.  "That  ye  sorrow  not,"  he 
says,  "  even  as  the  rest,  which  have  no  hope." 
Therefore  to  afflict  yourselves  for  the  departed 
is  to  act  like  those  who  have  no  hope.  And 
they  justly.  For  a  soul  that  knows  nothing  of 
the  Resurrection,  but  thinks  that  this  death 
is  death,  naturally  afflicts  itself,  and  bewails  and 
mourns  intolerably  as  for  lost  ones.  But  thou, 
who  expectest  a  resurrection,  on  what  account 
dost  thou  lament  ?  To  lament  then  is  the  part 
of  those  who  have  no  hope. 

1  [Chrys.  is  aiming  to  quote  (ii.  14),  "  Ye  became  imitators  of 
the  churches  of  God  which  are  in  Judaea  ";  and  he  then  explains  the 
situation  in  Judaea  by  quoting  from  the  Epistle  to  the  Hebrews.  The 
chronology  of  the  Epistles  is  seldom  very  real  to  his  mind.  The  in- 
accurate and  abridged  quotation  is  natural,  but  of  course  the  amended 
text  filled  it  out,  as  seen  in  the  earlier  editions.  —  J.  A.  B.] 

*  [Chrys.  thinks  of  x  Cor.  xv.  as  preceding  Thess.  in  time,  and 
he  had  himself  previously  discoursed  thereon.  — J.  A.  B.] 

*  [Chrys.  has,  as  so  often,  the  reading  which  became  the  Textus 
Receptus,  viz.  here  the  perfect  participle,  "  them  that  are  asleep." 
The  Rev.  Ver.  properly  adopts  the  other  reading,  the  present  parti- 
ciple, "  them  that  fall  asleep,"  in  the  successive  instances.  In  ver. 
14  and  15  (Horn,  vii.)  both  Chrys.  and  N.  T.  have  the  aorist  parti- 
ciple, "  them  that  fell  asleep,"  loosely  translated,  "  them  that  are 
fallen  asleep."  —J.  A.  B.] 


Hear  this,  ye  women,  as  many  of  you  as  are 
fond  of  wailing,  as  many  as  at  times  of  mourning 
take  the  sorrow  impatiently,  that  ye  act  the  part 
of  heathens.  But  if  to  grieve  for  the  departed  is 
the  part  of  heathens,  then  tell  me  whose  part  it 
is  to  beat  one's  self,  and  tear  the  cheeks  ?  On 
what  account  do  you  lament,  if  you  believe  that 
he  will  rise  again,  that  he  has  not  perished,  that 
the  matter  is  but  a  slumber  and  a  sleep  ?  You 
say,  On  account  of  his  society,  his  protection, 
his  care  of  our  affairs,  and  all  his  other  services. 
When  therefore  you  lose  a  child  at  an  untimely 
age,  who  is  not  yet  able  to  do  anything,  on  what 
account  do  you  lament  ?  Why  do  you  seek  to 
recall  him?  He  was  displaying,  you  say,  good 
hopes,  and  I  was  expecting  that  he  would  be  my 
supporter.  On  this  account  I  miss  my  husband, 
on  this  account  my  son,  on  this  account  I  wail 
and  lament,  not  disbelieving  the  Resurrection, 
but  being  left  destitute  of  support,  and  having 
lost  my  protector,  my  companion,  who  shared 
with  me  in  all  things — my  comforter.  On  this 
account  I  mourn.  I  know  that  he  will  rise  again, 
but  I  cannot  bear  the  intermediate  separation. 
A  multitude  of  troubles  rushes  in  upon  me.  I 
am  exposed  to  all  who  are  willing  to  injure  me. 
Those  of  my  servants  who  formerly  feared  me 
now  despise  me,  and  trample  upon  me.  If  any 
one  has  been  benefited,  he  has  forgotten  the 
benefit  he  received  from  him ;  if  any  one  was 
ill-treated  by  the  departed,  to  return  the  grudge 
against  him,  he  lets  loose  his  anger  upon  me. 
These  things  do  not  suffer  me  to  bear  my  widow- 
hood. It  is  for  these  things  that  I  afflict  myself, 
for  these  things  I  bewail. 

How  then  shall  we  comfort  such  ?  What  shall 
we  say?  How  shall  we  banish  their  sorrow?4 
In  the  first  place  I  shall  endeavor  to  convict 
them,  that  their  wailing  proceeds  not  from  these 
things  they  say,  but  from  an  unreasonable  passion. 
For  if  you  mourn  for  these  things,  you  ought 
always  to  mourn  the  departed.  But  if  when  a 
year  has  passed  away,  you  forget  him  as  if  he 
had  never  been,  you  do  not  bewail  the  departed 
nor  his  protection.  But  you  cannot  endure  the 
separation,  nor  the  breaking  off  of  your  society? 
And  what  can  they  say,  who  even  enter  into 
second  marriages?  Sure  enough !  It  is  the 
former  husbands  that  they  long  for.  But  let  us 
not  direct  our  discourse  to  them,  but  to  those 
who  preserve  a  kind  affection  towards  the 
departed.  Wherefore  dost  thou  lament  thy 
child  ?  Wherefore  thine  husband  ?  The  former, 
because  I  had  not  enjoyed  him,  you  say ;  the 
latter,  because  I  expected  that  I  should  have 
enjoyed  him  longer.     And  this  very  thing,  what 

4  [See  this  subject  copiously  and  admirably  treated  in  one  of 
Chrys. 's  seven  sermons  on   the  Rich  Man  and  Lazarus,  entitled . 
"  Excessive  Grief  at  the  Death  of  Friends,"  and  translated  in  Fish's 
"  Masterpieces  of  Pulpit  Eloquence  "  (New  York),  Vol.  I.,  pp.  83 
ff.  —J.  A.  B.] 


350 


WORKS   OF   ST.   CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  VI. 


want  of  faith  does  it  argue,  to  suppose  that  thy 
husband  or  thy  son  constitutes  thy  safety,  and 
not  God  !  How  dost  thou  not  think  to  provoke 
Him?  For  often  on  this  account  He  takes 
them  away,  that  thou  mayest  not  be  so  bound 
to  them,  so  that  it  may  withdraw  thy  hopes  from 
them.  For  God  is  jealous,  and  wills  to  be  loved 
by  us  most  of  all  things :  and  that,  because  He 
loves  us  exceedingly.  For  ye  know  that  this  is 
the  custom  of  those  who  love  to  distraction. 
They  are  excessively  jealous,  and  would  choose 
rather  to  throw  away  their  life,  than  to  be  sur- 
passed in  esteem  by  any  of  their  rival  lovers. 
On  this  account  also  God  hath  taken  him, 
because  of  these  words.1 

For,  tell  me,  on  what  account  were  there  not 
in  old  times  widowhoods,  and  untimely  orphan- 
hoods ?  Wherefore  did  He  permit  Abraham  and 
Isaac  to  live  a  long  time  ?  Because  even  when 
he  was  living  he  preferred  God  before  him. 
He  said  indeed,  slay ;  and  he  slew  him.  Why 
did  he  bring  Sarah  to  so  great  an  age?  Be- 
cause, even  whilst  she  was  living,  he  listened  to 
God  rather  than  to  her.  For  this  reason  God 
said  to  him,  "Hear  Sarah  thy  wife."  (From 
Gen.  xxi.  12.)  No  one  then  either  from  love 
to  husband  or  wife,  or  on  account  of  the  protec- 
tion of  a  child,  provoked  God  to  anger.  But 
now  because  we  are  declining  downwards,  and 
have  exceedingly  fallen  off,  we  men  love  our 
wives  more  than  God,  and  we  women  honor 
our  husbands  more  than  God.  It  is  on  this 
account  that  He  draws  us  even  against  our  will 
to  the  love  of  Himself.  Love  not  thy  husband 
more  than  God,  and  thou  shalt  not  ever  expe- 
rience widowhood.  Or  rather,  even  if  it  should 
happen,  thou  shalt  not  have  the  feeling  of  it. 
Why?  Because  thou  hast  an  immortal  Protec- 
tor who  loves  thee  better.  If  thou  lovest  God 
more,  mourn  not :  for  He  who  is  more  beloved 
is  immortal,  and  does  not  suffer  thee  to  feel  the 
loss  of  him  who  is  less  beloved.  This  I  will 
make  manifest  to  thee  by  an  example.  Tell 
me,  if  thou  hast  a  husband,  complying  with  thee 
in  all  things,  one  that  is  respected,  and  that 
makes  thee  honorable  everywhere,  and  not  to 
be  despised,  one  respected  amongst  all,  intelli- 
gent and  wise,  and  loving  thee,  thou  being 
esteemed  happy  on  his  account,  and  in  conjunc- 
tion with  him  shouldest  thou  also  bring  forth  a 
child,  and  then  before  it  has  arrived  at  the  age 
of  maturity,  that  child  should  depart ;  wilt  thou 
then  feel  the  affliction?  By  no  means.  For 
he  that  is  more  beloved  makes  it  disappear. 
And  now  if  thou  love  God  more  than  thy  hus- 
band, assuredly  He  will  not  soon  take  him  away. 
But  even  if  He  should  take  him,  thou  wilt  not 
be  sensible  of  the  affliction.  For  this  reason 
the  blessed  Job  felt  no  severe  suffering,  when 

1  i.e.  "  because  you  say  such  things  about  him." 


he  heard  of  the  death  of  his  children  all  at  once, 
because  he  loved  God  more  than  them.  And 
whilst  He  whom  he  loved  was  living,  those 
things  would  not  be  able  to  afflict  him. 

What  sayest  thou,  O  woman?  Thy  husband 
or  thy  son  was  thy  protector?  But  does  not 
thy  God  spare  thee?  Who  gave  thee  thy 
very  husband?  Was  it  not  He?  And  who 
made  thee  ?  Was  it  not  He  ?  He  surely  who 
brought  thee  out  of  nothing  into  being,  and 
breathed  into  thee  a  soul,  and  put  in  thee  a 
mind,  and  vouchsafed  to  favor  thee  with  the 
knowledge  of  Himself,  and  for  thy  sake  spared 
not  His  only-begotten  Son,  does  not  He  spare 
thee?  And  does  thy  fellow-servant  spare  thee? 
What  wrath  is  due  to  these  words !  What  of 
this  kind  hast  thou  had  from  thy  husband? 
Thou  canst  not  say  anything.  For  if  he  has 
even  done  thee  any  kindness,  it  was  after  he 
had  received  kindness,  you  having  previously 
begun.  But  in  the  case  of  God  no  one  can 
say  any  such  thing.  For  it  is  not  as  having 
received  any  favors  from  us  that  God  benefits 
us,  but  being  incapable  of  want,  from  His  good- 
ness alone  He  does  good  to  mankind.  He  has 
promised  thee  a  kingdom,  He  has  given  immor- 
tal life,  glory,  brotherhood,  adoption.  He  has 
made  thee  fellow-heir  with  His  Only-Begotten. 
And  dost  thou  after  so  great  benefits  remember 
thy  husband?  What  has  he  bestowed  of  this 
kind?  He  has  made  His  sun  to  shine,  He  has 
given  rain,  He  sustains  thee  with  yearly  nourish- 
ment.   Woe  to  us  for  our  great  ingratitude  ! 

For  this  reason  He  takes  thy  husband,  that 
thou  mayest  not  seek  him.  But  dost  thou  still 
cling  to  him  though  departed,  and  forsakest  God, 
when  it  was  thy  duty  to  give  thanks,  to  cast  it 
all  upon  Him?  For  what  is  it  that  thou  hast 
received  from  thy  husband  ?  The  pains  of  child- 
birth, and  labors,  and  insults  and  reproaches 
often,  and  chidings,  and  bursts  of  anger.  Are 
not  these  the  things  that  come  from  husbands? 
But  there  are,  you  say,  other  things  too  that  are 
good.  Of  what  sort  then  are  these?  Did  he 
set  off  thy  beauty  with  costly  garments?  Did 
he  put  gold  ornaments  about  thy  face?  Did 
he  make  thee  respected  by  all?  But  if  thou 
wilt,  thou  shalt  adorn  thyself  with  a  much 
better  ornament  than  the  departed.  For  grav- 
ity makes  its  possessor  much  more  admirable 
than  golden  ornaments.  This  King  also  has 
garments,  not  of  this  sort,  but  much  better. 
With  those,  if  thou  wilt,  invest  thyself.  Of 
what  sort  then  are  they?  There  is  a  clothing 
which  has  fringes  of  gold;  if  thou  wilt,  array 
the  soul.  But  did  he  make  thee  not  to  be 
despised  by  men?  And  what  is  there  great 
in  that?  Thy  widowhood  suffers  thee  not  to  be 
despised  by  the  demons.  Then  thou  ruledst 
over  thy  servants,  if  at  least  thou  didst  at  all 


Homily  VI.] 


HOMILIES   ON   THESSALONIANS. 


351 


rule  over  them.  But  now,  instead  of  thy  ser- 
vants, thou  hast  mastery  over  unbodied  powers, 
principalities,  authorities,  the  ruler  of  this  world. 
And  thou  dost  not  mention  the  troubles,  in 
which  thou  sharedst  with  him,  sometimes  the 
fear  of  magistrates,  sometimes  the  preference 
given  to  neighbors.  From  all  these  things  thou 
art  now  delivered,  from  dread  and  fear.  But 
art  thou  solicitous  who  will  support  the  children 
that  are  left  thee?  The  "  Father  of  the  father- 
less." For  tell  me,  who  gave  them  ?  Dost  thou 
not  hear  Christ  in  the  Gospels  saying,  "  Is  not 
the  life  more  than  the  food,  and  the  body  than 
the  raiment?"     (Matt.  vi.  25.) 

Seest  thou,  that  thy  lamentation  is  not  from 
loss  of  his  society,  but  from  want  of  faith.  But 
the  children  of  a  father  that  is  dead  are  not 
equally  illustrious.  Wherefore  ?  They  have  God 
for  their  Father,  and  are  they  not  illustrious? 
How  many  can  I  show  you  brought  up  by 
widows,  who  have  become  famous,  how  many 
who  have  been  under  their  fathers,  and  have 
been  undone !  For  if  thou  bringest  them  up 
from  their  first  youth,  as  they  ought  to  be 
brought  up,  they  will  enjoy  an  advantage  much 
greater  than  a  father's  protection.  For  that  it 
is  the  business  of  widows  —  I  speak  of  the 
bringing  up  of  children  —  hear  Paul  saying,  "  If 
she  hath  brought  up  children"  (1  Tim.  v.  10) ; 
and  again,  "She  shall  be  saved  through  the 
child-bearing,"  (he  has  not  said  through  her  hus- 
band,) "  if  they  continue  in  faith  and  love  and 
sanctification  with  sobriety."  (1  Tim.  ii.  15.) 
Instill  into  them  the  fear  of  God  from  their  first 
youth,  and  He  will  protect  them  better  than  any 
father;  this  will  be  a  wall  not  to  be  broken. 
For  when  there  is  a  guard  seated  within,  we  have 
no  need  of  contrivances  without :  but  where 
he  is  not,  all  our  outward  contrivances  are  vain. 

This  will  be  to  them  wealth  and  glory  too  and 
ornament.  This  will  make  them  illustrious,  not 
upon  earth,  but  even  in  heaven.  For  do  not 
look  to  those  who  are  begirt  with  the  golden 
girdles,  nor  those  who  are  borne  on  horses,  nor 
those  who  shine  in  kings'  palaces  on  account  of 
their  fathers,  nor  those  who  have  footmen  and 
tutors.  For  these  things  perhaps  cause  widows 
to  bewail  over  their  orphans,  thinking  that  this 
my  son  also,  if  his  father  at  least  were  living, 
would  have  enjoyed  so  much  happiness;  but 
now  he  is  in  a  state  of  depression  and  dishonor, 
and  worthy  of  no  consideration.  Think  not  of 
these  things,  O  woman,  but  open  to  thee  in 
thought  the  gates  of  heaven,  consider  the  palace 
there,  behold  the  King  who  is  there  seated. 
Consider  if  those  who  are  upon  the  earth  can  be 
more  illustrious  than  thy  son  there  —  and  then 
groan.  But  if  some  are  of  good  repute  on 
earth,  this  is  not  worth  any  consideration.  It  is 
allowed  him,  if  thou  wilt,  to  be  a  soldier  in 


heaven,  to  enlist  him  in  the  ranks  of  that  army. 
For  those  who  are  enlisted  there  are  not  borne 
on  horses,  but  in  the  clouds.  They  walk  not 
upon  earth,  but  are  caught  up  into  heaven. 
They  have  not  slaves  to  go  before  them,  but  the 
Angels  themselves.  They  stand  not  in  the  pres- 
ence of  a  mortal  king,  but  of  Him  who  is  im- 
mortal, the  King  of  kings  and  Lord  of  lords. 
They  have  not  a  leathern  girdle  about  their 
loins,  but  that  glory  which  is  unspeakable,  and 
they  are  more  splendid  than  kings,  or  whoever 
have  been  most  illustrious.  For  in  those  royal 
courts  not  wealth  is  required,  nor  noble  birth, 
nothing  else  than  virtue  alone ;  and  where  that 
is  present,  nothing  is  wanting  to  their  obtaining 
the  chief  place. 

Nothing  is  painful  to  us,  if  we  are  willing  to 
cultivate  wisdom.  Look  up  to  heaven,  and  see 
how  much  more  splendid  it  is  than  the  roofs  of 
palaces.  And  if  the  pavement  of  the  palaces 
above  is  so  much  more  grand  than  those  below, 
that  the  one  may  be  considered  as  dirt  in  com- 
parison with  the  other;  if  any  one  should  be 
thought  worthy  to  see  those  palaces  perfectly, 
what  blessedness  will  not  be  his  ! 

"  But  she,"  he  says,  "  that  is  a  widow  indeed, 
and  desolate,  hath  her  hope  set  on  God."  ( 1 
Tim.  v.  5.)  To  whom  is  this  said?  To  those 
who  have  no x  children,  because  they  are  more 
highly  approved,  and  have  a  greater  opportunity 
of  pleasing  God,  because  all  their  chains  are 
loosened  to  them.  There  is  no  one  to  hold 
them  fast,  no  one  to  compel  them  to  drag  their 
chains  after  them.  Thou  art  separated  from  thy 
husband,  but  art  united  to  God.  Thou  hast  not 
a  fellow-servant  for  thy  associate,  but  thou  hast 
thy  Lord.  When  thou  prayest,  tell  me,  dost 
thou  not  converse  with  God?  When  thou 
readest,  hear  Him  conversing  with  thee.  And 
what  does  He  say  to  thee  ?  Much  kinder  words 
than  thy  husband.  For  though  indeed  thy 
husband  should  flatter  thee,  the  honor  is  not 
great,  for  he  is  thy  fellow-servant.  But  when  the 
Lord  flatters  the  slave,  then  is  the  courtship  great. 
How  then  does  He  court  us?  Hear  by  what 
means  he  does  it.  "Come,"  He  says,  "unto 
Me,  all  ye  that  labor  and  are  heavy  laden,  and 
I  will  give  you  rest."  (Matt.  xi.  28.)  And  again 
through  the  Prophet  He  calls,  saying,  "Will  a 
woman  forget  to  have  compassion  on  the  off- 
spring of  her  womb?  But  even  if  a  woman 
should  forget,  yet  will  I  not  forget  thee,  saith  the 
Lord."  (Isa.  xlix.  15,  Sept.)  Of  how  great  a  love 
are  these  words?    And  again,  "Turn  unto  Me" 

1  [Two  MSS.,  which  generally  present  good  readings,  give  the 
negative.  Other  MSS.  and  two  editions  have  no  negative,  and  that 
is  the  harder  reading,  likely  (o  be  altered.  It  may  possibly  be  ex- 
plained (Field)  by  understanding  the  foregoing  question  thus: 
"With  reference  to  whom  is  this  said?"  i.e.  in  comparison  with 
whom?  Then  the  thought  is  that,  in  comparison  with  tho«e  who 
have  children,  a  widow  that  is  really  such  has  better  opportunities  of 
usefulness.    Comp.  x  Cor.  vii.  3a.  —  J.  A.  B.] 


352 


WORKS   OF   ST.    CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  VII. 


(Isa.  xlv.  22)  ;  and  again  elsewhere,  "Turn  unto 
Me,  and  thou  shalt  be  saved."  (Isa.  xliv.  22.) 
And  if' one  was  willing  to  select  too  from  the 
Canticles,  taking  them  in  the  more  mystical  way, 
he  will  hear  Him  conversing  and  saying  to  every 
soul  that  is  fitted  for  Him,  "  My  fair  one,  my 
dove."  (Cant.  ii.  10.)  What  is  sweeter  than 
these  words?  Seest  thou  the  conversation  of 
God  with  men?  But  what?  tell  me,  seest  thou 
not  how  many  children  of  those  blessed  women 


are  gone,  and  are  in  their  tombs;  how  many 
have  suffered  more  severely,  and  with  their  hus- 
bands have  lost  also  their  children?  To  these 
things  let  us  attend;  let  us  be  anxious  about 
these  things,  and  nothing  will  be  grievous  to  us, 
but  we  shall  continue  passing  all  our  time  in 
spiritual  joy ;  and  we  shall  enjoy  the  eternal 
blessings,  of  which  may  we  all  be  partakers,  by 
the  grace  and  lovingkindness,  &c. 


HOMILY  VII. 

1  Thessalonians  iv.  13. 

"  But  we  would  not  have  you  ignorant,  brethren,  concern-  for  those  who  die  ?  And  why  does  he  say, 
ing  them  that  are  asleep;  that  ye  sorrow  not,  even  «  Even  ^  the  rest  which  j^^  no  hope  »?  j^ 
as  the  rest,  wh.ch  have  no  hope.  whom  do  ^  Kst  moum?  ^  ^  £  them  ^ 

There  are  manv  thines  which  from  ienorance  these  things  "*  vapid-S    "  The  firstbom  from  the 
ihere  are  many  inings  wnicn  rrom  ignorance  d    d„    (C  j    j      8)    h  th     first-fruits. 

alone  cause  us  sorrow,  so  that  if  we  come  ,™  ,  v  X  '  ;'  V  u  \.iT  \  *.  a  j 
to  understand  them  well,  we  banish  our  grief.  Therefore  there  must  also  be  others  left.  And 
This  therefore  Paul  also  showing,  says,  "I  would  ?ee  h°w  here  h.e  mtroduces  nothing  from  reason- 
not  have  you  ignorant,  that  ye  sorrow  not,  even  «**  because  they  were  docile.  For  m  writing 
as  the  rest,  which  have  no  hope."  Is  it  on  this  ">  the  Corinthians,  he  started  many <  things  also 
account  thou  wouldest  not  have  them  ignorant?  {™  "W  and  thenf  he  addf  •    T0.0" *# 

But  wherefore  dost  thou  not  speak  of  L  pun-  ,tha'  wluch  J™  J0™?  .,s  not    *™ck*n"L 

•  u       *  »u  •.  :„  i-:-4  ..^i    t™v™.-»  .„.-.  uL  „<•  U  Cor.  xv.  36.)     For  this  is  more  authoritative, 

ishment  that  is  laid  up?    Ignorant,  says  he,  of  >    .  ..  .       ■?    '.  _  ...    .,     .   ..      ' 

.,       ,     .  .         e  ^u     d  »•_!»»     I  r>  but  it  is  when  he  converses  with  the  believer, 

the  doctrine   of  the   Resurrection.     But  why?  ~  .      .,,    , .        ,      .       .t.      .       .    .       ..     ._ 

™, .    .  .,    .  c   _  .,       .,       .  . i_:»»_j  But  with  him  who  is  without,  what  authority 

This  is  manifest  from  the  other,  and  is  admitted.         ..    ..    ,       ,   K£  „'.  „' 

But  meanwhile,  together  with  that,  there  will  w.ou,f,  ™"  nav,e '  *,ven.  ■*  he  5?5»  .  ™" 
also  be  this  not  inconsiderable  gain.  For  since  ^9  **  «  &fn  asleep  in  Jesus  wil  God  brag 
they  did  not  disbelieve  the  Resurrection,  but  ^  Him'  tA^  "  ^llen  asleep » :  he  no- 
nevertheless  bewailed,  on  this  account  he  speaks.  ^e.ref  "^  *e  deadH  B"1  ™th.  "***  to 
And  he  discourses  indeed  with  those  who  dis-  Chnst,  his  words  are,  "  He  died,'  because  there 
believe  the  Resurrection  in  one  way,  but  with  followed  mention  of  the  Resurrecfaon  but  here 
these  in  another.  For  it  is  manifest  that  they  T  them,  ,that  "?  W J»  a$*eH  '  H.ow  "  trough 
knew,  who  were  enquiring  about  the  "times  and  Jesus  ?  \. E"h,fr  that  they  feU  asleep  through 
seasons  "     ( 1  Thess  v  1  )  I*5™'  or  that  through  Jesus  wlU  He  fenng  them. 

Ver  \a   "For  if  we  believe"  he  savs  "that  The  Phrase  '<that  feU  ^^P  through  Jesus" 
t„.„  A-.2i  ~~a  „.„ :„  »  ~~a  r..,-A  1  »L.^  „„  means  the  faithful.     Here  the  heretics  say,  that 


Jesus  died  and  rose  again,"  and  lived,   "  even  so 


them  also  that  are  faUin  asleen  in  Tes'us  will  God  he   is   sPeakinS  of  the  baptized-     What  place 

them  also >  tnat  are  lauen  asieep  in  jesus  win  00a  then  ^  there  for  w  eyen  go  „ ?    For  jegus  did m 

nWh«e  are'they  who  deny  the  Flesh?'  For  if  M  ffP  through  Baptism     But  on  what  ac- 

He  did  not  assume  Flesh/neither  did  He  die.  count  does  he  say, "  them  that  are  fallen  asleep  ? 

Tt  it     j-  1       «.  a-         4.u      a  a  rr  So  that  he  is  discoursing  not  of  a  general  Res- 

If  He  did  not  die,  neither  did  He  rise  again.  k.       ,    .     -           .? ,             ^       4,   4    ^ 

How  then  does  he  exhort  us  from  these  Aings  ™ect,on'  bu  .of  a  l^  °~-    Them,th^t  Z 

to  faith?    Was  he  not  then  according  to  them  a  falle°  "*<**  thro?«h  Jesus'  he  »>*  and  ^  he 

trifler  and  a  deceiver?     For  if  to  die  proceeds  sp!aks  m  many  plac,e.s-                   .            ,     .. . 

e                 j  r>u  •  »  a- a                u       a        u  Ver.  ie.   "  For  this  we  say  unto  you  by  the 

from  sin,  and  Christ  did  not  sin  how  does  he  d    f  ^e  ^  d  ^           ^        ^    ^ 

now  encourage  us  ?    And  now,  concerning  whom  '                                    ' 

does  he  say,  O  men,  for  whom  do  ye  mourn  ? 

For  whom  do  ye  sorrow?  for  sinners,  or  simply 


8  e»Aa.    He  means  to  those  who  deny  the  Incarnation. 

*  [The  Greek  rendered  "  in  Jesus  "  is  properly  ••  through  Jetus," 

1  -—j-  w-»™ —  «  tncm  iyUki  fell  asleep  rt  and  "  will  bring,"  so 


and  stands  between 


1  [This  passage  is  here  enlarged  from  Rom.  ziv.  9,  even  as  in  that  it  may  be  understood  as  connected  with  either.     Modem 

many  documents  and  Textus  Receptus  of  N.  T.  that  passage  is  en-  mentators  usually  prefer  to  connect  with  the  participle,  and  then  the 

Urged  from  this.  — J.  A.  B.]  natural  meaning  is  that  throughjesus  death  became  to  them  a  faD- 

>  i.e.  the  Incarnation,  as  the  Docetae,  and  in  a  manner  the  Mar-  ing  asleep.    Comp.  Ellicott.    The  amenders  of  Chrya.'s  text  made 

cionites  and  the  Manichees.    St.  Aug.  Conf.  it r<  them  that  fell  asleep  by  faith  in  Jesus."  —  J.  A.  B.] 


Homily  VII.] 


HOMILIES   ON   THESSALONIANS. 


353 


left  unto  the  coming  of  the  Lord,  shall  in  nowise 
precede  them  that  are  fallen  asleep." 

Speaking  concerning  the  faithful,  and  them 
"which  are  fallen  asleep  in1  Christ"  (i  Cor. 
xv.  1 8)  ;  and  again,  "the  dead  shall  rise  in 
Christ."  Since  his  discourse  is  not  concerning 
the  Resurrection  only,  but  both  concerning 
the  Resurrection  and  concerning  the  honor  in 
glory ;  all  then  shall  partake  of  a  Resurrection, 
he  says,  but  not  all  shall  be  in  glory,  only  those 
in  Christ.  Since  therefore  he  wishes  to  comfort 
them,  he  comforts  them  not  with  this  only,  but 
also  with  the  abundant  honor,  and  with  its 
speedy  arrival,  since  they  knew  that.  For  in 
proof  that  he  wishes  to  comfort  them  with  the 
honor,  as  he  goes  on,  he  says,  "  And  we  shall  be 
ever  with  the  Lord" :  and  "we  shall  be  caught 
up  in  the  clouds." 

But  how  do  the  faithful  fall  asleep  in  Jesus  ? 
It  means  having  Christ  within  themselves.  But 
the  expression,  "He  shall  bring  with  Him," 
shows  that  they  are  brought  from  many  places. 
"  This."  Something  strange  he  was  about  to  tell 
them.  On  this  account  he  also  adds  what  makes 
it  worthy  of  credit ;  "  From  the  word  of  the 
Lord,"  he  says,  that  is,  we  speak  not  of  our- 
selves, but  having  learnt  from  Christ,  "That  we 
that  are  alive,  that  are  left  unto  the  coming  of 
the  Lord,  shall  in  nowise  precede  them  that  are 
fallen  asleep."  Which  also  he  says  in  his  Epis- 
tle to  the  Corinthians ;  "  In  a  moment,  in  the 
twinkling  of  an  eye."  (i  Cor.  xv.  52.)  Here  he 
gives  a  credibility  to  the  Resurrection  by  the 
manner  also  [in  which  it  will  occur]. 

For  because  the  matter  seems  to  be  difficult, 
he  says  that  as  it  is  easy  for  the  living  to  be  taken 
up,  so  also  for  the  departed.  But  in  saying 
"  we,"  he  does  not  speak  of  himself,  for  he  was 
not  about  to  remain  until  the  Resurrection,  but 
he  speaks  of  the  faithful.  On  this  account  he 
has  added,  "  We  that  are  left  unto  the  coming 
of  the  Lord  shall  in  nowise  precede  them  that 
are  fallen  asleep."  As  if  he  had  said,  Think 
not  that  there  is  any  difficulty.  It  is  God  that 
does  it.  They  who  are  then  alive  shall  not  an- 
ticipate those  who  are  dissolved,  who  are  rotted, 
who  have  been  dead  ten  thousand  years.  But 
as  it  is  easy  to  bring  those  who  are  entire,  so  is 
it  also  those  who  are  dissolved. 

But  there  are  some  who  disbelieve  the  matter, 
because  they  know  not  God.  For,  tell  me, 
which  is  the  more  easy,  to  bring  one  into  being 
out  of  nothing,  or  to  raise  up  again  him  that  was 
dissolved  ?  But  what  say  they  ?  A  certain  one 
suffered  shipwreck  and  was  drowned  in  the  sea, 
and  having  fallen  many  fishes  caught  him,  and 

1  [Here  Chrys.  first  quotes  accurately  from  i  Cor.  xv.  18,  and 
then  adds  from  iv.  15  below,  there  taking  "in  Christ"  with  the 
verb,  when  the  connection  requires  us  to  understand,  "  the  dead  in 
Christ  shall  rise."  Comp.  Ellicott  on  iv.  15,  and  notice  below,  at 
the  beginning  of  Horn,  vui.,  that  Chrys.  connects  as  here. — J.  A.  B.] 


each  of  the  fish  devoured  some  member.  Then 
of  these  very  fishes,  one  was  caught  in  this 
gulf,  and  one  in  that,  and  this  was  eaten  by  one 
man,  and  that  by  another,  while  having  in  it  the 
devoured  pieces  of  flesh.  And  again,  those  who 
ate  the  fishes,  that  had  eaten  up  the  man,  died 
in  different  places,  and  were  themselves  perhaps 
devoured  by  wild  beasts.  And  —  when  there 
has  been  so  great  a  confusion  and  dispersion  — 
how  shall  the  man  rise  again?  Who  shall  gather 
up  the  dust?  But  wherefore  dost  thou  say  this, 
O  man,  and  weavest  strings  of  trifles,  and  makest 
it  a  matter  of  perplexity?  For  tell  me,  if  the 
man  had  not  fallen  into  the  sea,  if  the  fish  had 
not  eaten  him,  nor  the  fish  again  been  devoured 
by  numberless  men — but  he  had  been  preserved 
with  care  in  a  coffin,  and  neither  worms  nor  any- 
thing else  had  disturbed  him,  how  shall  that 
which  is  dissolved  rise  again?  How  shall  the 
dust  and  ashes  be  again  conglutinated  ?  *  Whence 
shall  there  be  any  more  its  bloom  for  the  body  ? 
But  is  not  this  a  difficulty? 

If  indeed  they  be  Greeks  who  raise  these 
doubts,  we  shall  have  numberless  things  to  say 
to  them.  What  then?  For  there  are  among 
them  those  who  convey  souls  into  plants,  and 
shrubs,  and  dogs.  Tell  me,  which  is  more  easy, 
to  resume  one's  own  body,  or  that  of  another? 
Others  again  say  that  they  are  consumed  by  fire, 
and  that  there  is  a  resurrection  of  garments  and 
of  shoes,  and  they  are  not  ridiculed.  Others 
say  atoms.  With  them,  however,  we  have  no 
argument  at  all ;  but  to  the  faithful,  (if  we  ought 
to  call  them  faithful  who  raise  questions,)  we  will 
still  say  what  the  Apostle  has  said,  that  all  life 
springs  from  corruption,  all  plants,  all  seeds.3 
Seest  thou  not  the  fig  tree,  what  a  trunk  it  has, 
what  stems,  how  many  leaves,  and  branches, 
stalks,  and  roots,  occupying  so  much  ground  and 
embosomed  therein.  This  then,  such  and  so 
great  as  it  is,  springs  from  the  grain  which  was 
thrown  into  the  ground  and  itself  first  corrupted. 
And  if  it  be  not  rotted  and  dissolved,  there  will 
be  none  of  these  things.  Tell  me,  whence  does 
this  happen  ?  And  the  vine  too,  which  is  so  fair 
both  to  see  and  to  partake  of,  springs  from  that 
which  is  vile  in  appearance.  And  what,  tell  me, 
is  not  the  water  that  descends  from  above  one 
thing?  how  is  it  changed  into  so  many  things? 
For  this  is  more  wonderful  than  the  Resurrec- 
tion. For  there  indeed  the  same  seed  and  the 
same  plant  is  the  subject,  and  there  is  a  great 
affinity.  But  here  tell  me  how,  having  one  qual- 
ity and  one  nature,  it  turns  into  so  many  things  ? 
In  the  vine  it  becomes  wine,  and  not  only  wine, 
but  leaves  and  sap.  For  not  only  is  the  cluster 
of  grapes,  but  the  rest  of  the  vine  nourished  by 

*  This  word  is  used  by  Bp.  Pearson  in  this  very  argument,  which 
he  may  have  borrowed  from  St.  Chrys. ;  see  his  work  on  the  Creed, 
art.  Resurrection. 

*  See  x  Cor.  xv.  36* 


354 


WORKS   OF   ST.   CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  VII. 


it.  Again,  in  the  olive  (it  becomes)  oil,  and  the 
other  so  numerous  things.  And  what  is  won- 
derful, here  it  is  moist,  there  dry,  here  sweet, 
there  sour,  here  astringent,  elsewhere  bitter. 
Tell  me  how  it  turns  into  so  many  things  ?  Show 
me  the  reason  !     But  you  cannot. 

And  in  the  case  of  thyself,  tell  me,  for  this 
comes  nearer,  this  seed,  that  is  deposited,  how 
is  it  fashioned  and  molded  into  so  many  things  ? 
how  into  eyes  ?  how  into  ears  ?  how  into  hands  ? 
how  into  heart?  Are  there  not  in  the  body  ten 
thousand  differences  of  figures,  of  sizes,  of  quali- 
ties, of  positions,  of  powers,  of  proportions? 
Nerves  and  veins  and  flesh  and  bones  and  mem- 
branes, and  arteries  and  joints  and  cartilages, 
and  as  many  more  things  beside  these,  as  the 
sons  of  the  physicians  precisely  specify,  which 
compose  our  nature  —  and  these  come  from  that 
one  seed  !  Does  not  this  then  seem  to  you 
much  more  difficult  than  those  things  ?  How  is 
the  moist  and  soft  congealed  into  the  dry  and 
cold,  that  is,  bone?  How  into  the  warm  and 
moist,  which  are  united  in  the  blood  ?  How  into 
the  cold  and  soft,  the  nerve  ?  How  into  the  cold 
and  moist,  the  artery?1  Tell  me,  whence  are 
these  things?  Art  thou  not  quite  at  a  loss  about 
these  things?  Dost  thou  not  see  every  day  a 
resurrection  and  a  death  taking  place  in  the 
periods  of  our  life?  Whither  is  our  youth 
gone?  whence  is  our  age  come?  how  is  it  that 
he  who  is  grown  old  cannot  indeed  make  him- 
self young,  but  begets  another,  a  very  young 
child,  and  what  he  cannot  give  to  himself,  that 
he  bestows  upon  another? 

This  also  we  may  see  in  trees  and  in  animals. 
And  yet  that  which  gives  to  another  ought  first 
to  bestow  upon  itself.  But  this  is  what  human 
reasoning  demands.  But  when  God  creates,  let 
all  things  give  way.  If  these  things  are  so  diffi- 
cult, nay,  so  excessively  difficult,  I  am  reminded 
of  those  mad  persons,  who  are  curious  about 
the  incorporeal  Generation  of  the  Son.  Things 
that  take  place  every  day,  that  are  within  the 
grasp  of  our  hands,  and  that  have  been  enquired 
into  ten  thousand  times,  no  one  has  yet  been 
able  to  discover ;  tell  me,  then,  how  is  it  they 
are  curious  about  that  secret  and  ineffable  Gen- 
eration? Is  not  the  mind  of  such  men  wearied 
in  treading  that  void?  Has  it  not  been  whirled 
into  ten  thousand  giddinesses?  Is  it  not  dum- 
founded?  And  yet  not  even  so  are  they  in- 
structed. When  they  are  able  to  say  nothing 
about  grapes  and  figs,  they  are  curious  about 
God  !  For  tell  me,  how  is  that  grape-stone 
resolved  into  leaves  and  stems?  How  before 
this  were  they  not  in  it,  nor  seen  in  it?  But  it 
is  not  the  grape-stone,  you  say,  but  all  is  from 
the  earth.  Then  how  is  it  that  without  this  the 
earth  bears  nothing  of  itself?     But  let  us  not  be 

1  The  arteries  were  then  thought  to  convey  air  through  the  body. 


void  of  understanding.  What  takes  place  is 
neither  from  the  earth,  nor  from  the  grape-stone, 
but  from  Him  who  is  Lord  both  of  the  earth 
and  of  its  seeds.  For  this  reason  He  has  caused 
the  same  thing  to  be  made  both  without  them, 
and  with  them.  In  the  first  place,  showing  His 
own  power,  when  he  said,  "  Let  the  earth  bring 
forth  the  herb  of  grass."  (From  Gen.  i.  n.) 
And  secondly,  besides  showing  His  power,  in- 
structing us  also  to  be  laborious  and  industrious. 
Why  then  have  these  things  been  said  by  us? 
Not  idly,  but  that  we  may  believe  also  in  the 
Resurrection,  and  that,  when  we  again  wish  to 
apprehend  something  by  our  reasonings,  but  do 
not  find  it,  we  may  not  be  angry  and  take 
offense,  but  discreetly  withdrawing  and  check- 
ing our  reasoning,  we  may  take  refuge  in  the 
power  and  skillfulness  of  God.  Knowing  these 
things  therefore,  let  us  put  a  curb  upon  our 
reasonings.  Let  us  not  transgress  our  bounds, 
nor  the  measures  that  have  been  assigned  to  our 
knowledge.  For,  "  If  any  man,"  he  says,  "  think- 
eth  that  he  knoweth  anything,  he  knoweth 
nothing  yet  as  he  ought  to  know."     (i  Cor. 

VUl.  2.) 

I  speak  not  concerning  God,  he  says,  but 
concerning  everything.  For  what?  wouldest 
thou  learn  about  the  earth?  What  dost  thou 
know?  Tell  me.  How  great  is  its  measure? 
What  is  its  size  ?  What  is  its  manner  of  posi- 
tion? What  is  its  essence?  What  is  its  place? 
Where  does  it  stand,  and  upon  what  ?  None  of 
these  things  can  you  tell  ?  But  that  it  is  cold, 
and  dry,  and  black,  this  you  can  tell  —  and 
nothing  farther.  Again,  concerning  the  sea? 
But  there  you  will  be  reduced  to  the  same  un- 
certainty, not  knowing  where  it  begins,  and 
where  it  ends,  and  upon  what  it  is  borne,  what 
supports  the  bottom  of  it,  and  what  sort  of  place 
there  is  for  it,  and  whether  after  it  there  is  a. 
continent,  or  it  ends  in  water  and  air.  And 
what  dost  thou  know  of  the  things  that  are  in  it? 
But  what?  Let  me  pass  over  the  elements. 
Would  you  have  us  select  the  smallest  of  plants? 
The  unfruitful  grass,  a  thing  which  we  all  know, 
tell  me,  how  it  is  brought  forth?  Is  not  the 
material  of  it  water,  and  earth,  and  dung?  Whit 
is  it  that  makes  it  appear  so  beautiful,  and  have 
such  an  admirable  color?  Whence  does  that 
beauty  so  fade  away?  This  is  not  the  work  of 
water,  or  of  earth.  Seest  thou  that  there  is 
even-where  need  of  faith  ?  How  does  the  carta 
bring  forth,  how  does  it  travail  ?  Tell  me.  But 
you  can  tell  me  none  of  these  things. 

Be  instructed,  O  man,  in  things  that  are  hat 
below,  and  be  not  curious  nor  overraeddhng 
about  heaven.  And  would  it  were  heaven,  ano 
not  the  Lord  of  heaven  !  Dost  thou  not  know 
the  earth  from  which  thou  wast  brought  forth, 
in  which  thou  wast  nourished,  which  thou  ift» 


Homily  VIII.] 


HOMILIES   ON   THESSALONIANS. 


355 


habitest,  on  which  thou  walkest,  without  which 
thou  canst  not  even  breathe ;  and  art  thou  curi- 
ous about  things  so  far  removed  ?  Truly  "  man 
is  vanity."  (Ps.  xxxix.  5,  and  cxliv.  5.)  And 
if  any  one  should  bid  thee  descend  into  the 
deep,  and  trace  out  things  at  the  bottom  of  the 
sea,  thou  wouldest  not  tolerate  the  command. 
But,  when  no  one  compels  thee,  thou  art  willing 
of  thyself  to  fathom  the  unsearchable  abyss? 
Do  not  so,  I  beseech  you.  But  let  us  sail  up- 
wards, not  floating,  for  we  shall  soon  be  weary, 
and  sink;  but  using  the  divine  Scriptures,  as 
some  vessel,  let  us  unfurl  the  sails  of  faith.  If 
we  sail  in  them,  then  the  Word  of  God  will  be 
present  with  us  as  our  Pilot.  But  if  we  float 
upon  human  reasonings,  it  will  not  be  so.     For 


to  whom  of  those  who  float,  is  a  Pilot  present  ? 
So  that  the  danger  is  twofold,  in  that  there  is 
no  vessel,  and  that  the  Pilot  is  absent  For  if 
even  the  boat  without  a  pilot  is  unsafe,  when 
both  are  wanting,  what  hope  is  there  of  safety? 
Let  us  not  then  throw  ourselves  into  manifest 
danger,  but  let  us  go  upon  a  safe  vessel,  having 
fastened  ourselves  by  the  sacred  anchor.  For 
thus  we  shall  sail  into  the  tranquil  haven,  with 
much  merchandise,2  and  at  the  same  time  with 
great  safety,  and  we  shall  obtain  the  blessings 
laid  up  for  them  that  love  Him,  in  Christ  Jesus 
our  Lord,  with  whom,  to  the  Father,  together 
with  the  Holy  Spirit,  be  glory,  power,  honor, 
now  and  always  and  world  without  end.    Amen. 


HOMILY    VIII. 

I    THESSALONIANS    iv.    1 5- 1 7. 


*  For  this  we  say  unto  you  by  the  word  of  the  Lord,  that 
we  that  are  alive,  that  are  left  unto  the  coming  of 
the  Lord,  shall  in  nowise  precede  them  that  are 
fallen  asleep.  For  the  Lord  Himself  shall  descend 
from  heaven,  with  a  shout,  with  the  voice  of  the 
Archangel,  and  with  the  trump  of  God :  and  the 
dead  in  Christ  shall  rise  first:  then  we  that  are 
alive,  that  are  left,  shall  together  with  them  be 
caught  up  in  the  clouds,  to  meet  the  Lord  in  the 
air :  and  so  shall  we  ever  be  with  the  Lord." 

The  Prophets  indeed,  wishing  to  show  the 
credibility  of  the  things  said  by  them,  before  all 
Dther  things  say  this,  "  The  vision  which  Isaiah 
5aw"  (Isa.  i.  1)  ;  and  again,  "The  word  of  the 
Lord  which  came  to  Jeremiah  "  (Jer.  i.  1,  Sept.)  ; 
ind  again,  "  Thus  saith  the  Lord  "  ;  with  many 
such  expressions.  And  many  of  them  even  saw 
2od  sitting,  as  far  as  it  was  possible  for  them  to 
»ee  Him.  But  Paul  not  having  seen  Him  sitting, 
jut  having  Christ  speaking  in  himself,  instead 
>f  Thus  saith  the  Lord,  said,  "  Do  ye  seek  a 
>roof  of  Christ  speaking  in  me  ?  "  (2  Cor.  xiii.  3.) 
Vnd  again,  "  Paul,  an  Apostle  of  Jesus  Christ." 
"or  the  "Apostle"  speaks  the  things  of  Him 
vho  sent  him ;  showing  that  nothing  is  of  him- 
elf.  And  again,  "  I  think  that  I  also  have  the 
Spirit  of  God."  (1  Cor.  vii.  40.)  All  those 
hings  therefore  he  spake  by  the  Spirit,  but  this, 
/hich  he  now  says,  he  heard  even  expressly, 
rom  God.  As  also  that  which  he  had  said  dis- 1 
oursing  to  the  Elders  of  Ephesus,  "  It  is  more  i 
rtessed  to  give  than  to  receive,"  he  heard  among  j 
hings  not  recorded.1   (Acts  xx.  35.) 

1   [The  saying  was  probably  in  circulation  among  the  Christians, 
>r  Paul  bids  the  elders  "  remember  the  words."  — J.  A.  B.j 


Let  us  then  see  what  he  now  also  says.  "  For 
this  we  say  unto  you  by  the  word  of  the  Lord, 
that  we  that  are  alive,  that  are  left  unto  the 
coming  of  the  Lord,  shall  in  nowise  precede 
them  that  are  fallen  asleep.  For  the  Lord  Him- 
self shall  descend  from  heaven,  with  a  shout, 
with  the  voice  of  the  Archangel,  and  with  the 
last  trump."  For  then,  he  saith,  "  The  powers 
of  the  heavens  shall  be  shaken."  (Matt.  xxiv. 
29.)  But  wherefore  with  the  trumpet?  For 
we  see  this  on  Mount  Sinai  too,  and  Angels  there 
also.  But  what  means  the  voice  of  the  Arch- 
angel? As  he  said  in  the  parable  of  the  Vir- 
gins, Arise  !  "  The  Bridegroom  cometh."  (From 
Matt.  xxv.  6.)  Either  it  means  this,  or  that  as 
in  the  case  of  a  king,  so  also  shall  it  then  be, 
Angels  ministering  at  the  Resurrection.  For 
He  says,  let  the  dead  rise,  and  the  work  is  done, 
the  Angels  not  having  power  to  do  this,  but  His 
word.  As  if  upon  a  king's  commanding  and 
saying  it,  those  who  were  shut  up  should  go 
forth,  and  the  servants  should  lead  them  out, 
yet  they  do  this  not  from  their  own  power,  but 
from .  that  Voice.  This  also  Christ  says  in 
another  place  :  "  He  shall  send  forth  his  Angels 
with  a  great  trumpet,  and  they  shall  gather  to- 
gether his  Elect  from  the  four  winds,  from  one 
end  of  heaven  to  the  other."  (Matt.  xxiv.  31.) 
And  everywhere  you  see  the  Angels  running  to 
and  fro.  The  Archangel  therefore  I  think  is  he, 
who  is  set  over  those  who  are  sent  forth,  and  who 
shouts  thus  :  "  Make  all  men  ready,  for  the  Judge 

*  cpvuptaf ,  ai.  cvwoptar,  facility. 


356 


WORKS   OF   ST.   CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  VIII. 


is  at  hand."  And  what  is  "  at  the  last  trumpet "  ? * 
Here  he  implies  that  there  are  many  trumpets, 
and  that  at  the  last  the  Judge  descends.  "  And 
the  dead,"  he  says,  "in  Christ  shall  rise  first. 
Then  we  that  are  alive,  that  are  left,  shall  to- 
gether with  them  be  caught  up  in  the  clouds,  to 
meet  the  Lord  in  the  air :  and  so  shall  we  ever 
be  with  the  Lord." 

Ver.  1 8.  "Wherefore  comfort  one  another 
with  these  words." 

If  He  is  about  to  descend,  on  what  account 
shall  we  be  caught  up  ?  For  the  sake  of  honor. 
For  when  a  king  drives  into  a  city,  those  who 
are  in  honor  go  out  to  meet  him ;  but  the  con- 
demned await  the  judge  within.  And  upon  the 
coming  of  an  affectionate  father,  his  children 
indeed,  and  those  who  are  worthy  to  be  his 
children,  are  taken  out  in  a  chariot,  that  they 
may  see  and  kiss  him ;  but  those  of  the  domes- 
tics who  have  offended  remain  within.  We  are 
carried  upon  the  chariot  of  our  Father.  For 
He  received  Him  up  in  the  clouds,  and  "we 
shall  be  caught  up  in  the  clouds."  (Acts  i.  9.) 
Seest  thou  how  great  is  the  honor?  and  as  He 
descends,  we  go  forth  to  meet  Him,  and,  what 
is  more  blessed  than  all,  so  we  shall  be  with 
Him. 

"  Who  shall  speak  of  the  mightinesses  of  the 
Lord,  and  make  all  His  praises  to  be  heard  ? " 
(Ps.  cvi.  2,  Sept.)  How  many  blessings  has  He 
vouchsafed  to  the  human  race  !  Those  who  are 
dead  are  raised  first,  and  thus  the  meeting  takes 
.  place  together.  Abel  who  died  before  all  shall 
then  meet  Him  together  with  those  who  are 
alive.  So  that  they  in  this  respect  will  have  no 
advantage,  but  he  who  is  corrupted,  and  has 
been  so  many  years  in  the  earth,  shall  meet  Him 
with  them,  and  so  all  the  others.  For  if  they 
awaited  us,  that  we  might  be  crowned,  as  else- 
where he  says  in  an  Epistle,  "  God  having  pro- 
vided some  better  thing  concerning  us,  that 
apart  from  us  they  should  not  be  made  perfect " 
(Heb.  xi.  40),  much  more  shall  we  also  await 
them ;  or  rather,  they  indeed  awaited,  but  we 
not  at  all.  For  the  Resurrection  takes  place 
"  in  a  moment,  in  the  twinkling  of  an  eye." 

But  as  to  the  saying,  that  they  are  gathered 
together ;  they  arise  indeed  everywhere,  but  are 
gathered  together  by  the  Angels.  The  former 
therefore  is  the  work  of  the  power  of  God  com- 
manding the  earth  to  give  up  its  deposit,  and 
there  is  no  one  who  ministers  in  it,  as  He  then 
called  Lazarus,  "  Lazarus,  come  forth "  (John 
xi.  43)  ;  but  the  gathering  is  the  work  of  minis- 
ters. But  if  Angels  gather  them  together,  and 
run  to  and  fro,  how  are  they  *  caught  up  here  ? 

1  >  [The  N.  T.  text  is,  without  variation,  "with  the  trump  of 
God.'  Chrys.  mingles  in  his  recollection  this  and  the  kindred  pas- 
sage in  1  Cor.  xv.  53.  The  quotation  at  the  head  of  the  Homily  is 
correct.  —  J.  A.  B.T 

*  i.e.  How  are  those,  whom  the  Angels  hare  already  taken  and 


They  are  caught  up  after  the  descent,8  after  that 
they  are  gathered  together. 

For  this  is  also  done  without  any  one  being 
aware.4  For  when  they  see  the  earth  agitated, 
the  dust  mingling,  the  bodies  rising  perchance4 
on  every  side,  no  one  ministering  to  this,  but 
the  "shout"  being  sufficient,  the  whole  earth 
filled  (for  consider  how  great  a  thing  it  is  that 
all  the  men  from  Adam  unto  His  coming  shall 
then  stand  with  wives  and  children),  —  when 
they  see  so  great  a  tumult  upon  the  earth,  — 
then  they  shall  know.  As  therefore  in  the  Dis- 
pensation that  was  in  the  Flesh,  they  had  fore- 
seen nothing  of  it,  so  also  will  it  then  be. 

When  these  things  then  are  done,  then  also 
will  be  the  voice  of  the  Archangel  shouting  and 
commanding  the  Angels,  and  the  trumpets,  or 
rather  the  sound  of  the  trumpet.     What  trem- 
bling then,  what  fear  will  possess  those  that  re- 
main upon  the  earth.     For  one  woman  is  caugh/fe 
up  and  another  is  left  behind,  and  one  majsn 
is  taken,  and  another  is  passed  over.      (Matt, 
xxiv.  40,   41 ;   Luke  xvii.  34,  35.)     What 
be  the  state  of  their  souls,  when  they  see 
indeed  taken  up,  but  themselves  left  behinc 
Will  not  these  things  be  able  to  shake  their  soi 
more  terribly  than  any  hell  ?    Let  us  represe- 
then  in  word  that  this  is  now  present.     For 
sudden  death,  or   earthquakes  in  cities, 


threatenings  thus  terrify  our  souls ;  when  we  s 
the  earth  breaking  up,  and  crowded  with 
these,  when  we  hear  the  trumpets,  and  the  voi 
of  the  Archangel  louder  than  any  trumpet,  wh 
we  perceive  the  heaven  shriveled  up,  and 
the  King  of  all  himself  coming  nigh  —  what  th< 
will  be  our  souls?    Let  us  shudder,  I  besee 
you,  and  be  frightened  as  if  these  things 
now  taking  place.     Let  us  not  comfort  ourselv 
by  the  delay.    For  when  it  must  certainly  hau 
pen,  the  delay  profits  us  nothing. 

How  great  will  then  be  the  fear  and  tremblin^^  • 
Have  you  ever  seen  men  led  away  to  deat^*? 
What  do  you  think  is  the  state  of  their  souls,  &? 
they  are  going  on  the  way  to  the  gate?  is     ^ 
not  worse  than  many  deaths?    What  would  tb^J 
not  choose  both  to  do  and  to  suffer,  so  that  tb«7 
might  be  delivered  from  that  cloud  of  darkness? 
I  have  heard  many  say,  who  have  been  recalled 
by  the  mercy  of  the  king  (Emperor),  after  hav- 
ing been  led  away,  that  they  did  not  even  see 
men  as  men,  their  souls  being  so  troubled,  so 
horror-struck,  and  beside  themselves.     If  then 
the  death  of  the  body  thus  frightens  us,  when 
eternal  death  approaches,  what  will  be  our  feel- 
ings?   And  why  do  I  speak  of  those  who  arc 


{fathered,  still  "  here,"  that  they  should  be  caught  up?  L.  pita 
tvravBa  before  avroi,  which  gives  that  sense  more  decidedly*  C 
"  here  "  may  only  mean  "  in  this  passage." 

*  Musculus  takes  it  of  our  Lord's  descent,  Henretus  other*!* 
4  He  seems  to  allude  to  Matt.  xzrr.  36. 

•  io-wf ,  which  has  been  translated  "  equally." 


Homily  VIII.] 


HOMILIES   ON   THESSALONIANS. 


357 


led  away?  A  crowd  then  stands  around,  the 
greater  part  not  even  knowing  them.  If  any 
one  looked  into  their  souls,  no  one  is  so  cruel, 
no  one  so  hard-hearted,  no  one  so  firm,  as  not 
to  have  his  soul  dejected,  and  relaxed  with  fear 
and  despair.  And  if  when  others  are  taken  off 
by  this  death,  which  differs  nothing  from  sleep, 
those  who  are  not  concerned  in  it  are  thus  af- 
fected ;  when  we  ourselves  fall  into  greater  evils, 
what  then  will  be  our  state  ?  It  is  not,  believe 
me,  it  is  not  possible  to  represent  the  suffering 
by  words. 

Nay,  you  say,  but  God  is  full  of  love  to  man, 
and  none  of  these  things  will  happen  !  Then  it 
is  written  in  vain  !  No,  you  say,  but  only  as  a 
threat,  that  we  may  become  wise  !  If  then  we 
are  not  wise,  but  continue  evil,  will  He  not,  tell 
me,  inflict  the  punishment?  Will  He  not  then 
recompense  the  good  either  with  rewards? 
Yes,  you  say,  for  that  is  becoming  to  Him,  to  do 
good  even  beyond  desert.  So  that  those  things 
indeed  are  true  and  will  certainly  be,  while  the 
punishments  will  not  be  at  all,  but  are  only  for 
the  purpose  of  a  threat,  and  of  terror  !  By  what 
means  I  shall  persuade  you,  I  know  not.  If  I 
say,  that  "  the  worm  will  not  die,  and  the  fire 
will  not  be  quenched  "  (Mark  ix.  44) ;  if  I  say, 
that  "  they  shall  go  away  into  everlasting  fire  " 
(Matt.  xxv.  41,  46)  ;  if  I  set  before  you  the  rich 
man  already  suffering  punishment,  you  will  say 
that  it  is  all  a  matter  of  threatening.  Whence 
then  shall  I  persuade  you  ?  For  this  is  a  Satanic 
reasoning,  indulging  you  with  a  favor  that  will 
not  profit,  and  causing  you  to  be  slothful. 

How  then  can  we  banish  it  ?  Whatever  things 
we  say  from  Scripture,  you  will  say,  are  for  the 
purpose  of  threatening.  But  with  respect  to 
future  things  this  indeed  might  be  said,  but  not 
so  concerning  things  that  have  happened,  and 
have  had  an  end.  You  have  heard  of  the  del- 
uge. And  were  those  things  also  said  by  way  of 
threat  ?  Did  they  not  actually  happen  ?  Those 
men  too  said  many  such  things,  and  for  a  hun- 
dred years  while  the  ark  was  building,  and  the 
wood  was  being  wrought,  and  the  righteous  man 
was  calling  aloud,  there  was  no  one  who  be- 
lieved. But  because  they  did  not  believe  the 
threat  in  words,  they  suffered  the  punishment  in 
very  deed.  And  this  will  be  our  fate  too,  if  we 
shall  not  have  believed.  On  this  account  it  is 
that  He  compares  His  coming  with  the  days 
of  Noah,  because  as  some  disbelieved  in  that 
deluge,  so  will  they  in  the  deluge  of  hell.  Were 
these  things  a  threat?  were  they  not  a  fact? 
Then  will  not  He,  who  then  brought  punish- 
ment upon  them  so  suddenly,  much  more  inflict 
it  now  also?  For  the  things  that  are  committed 
now  are  not  less  than  the  offenses  of  that  time. 
How?  —  because  then,  it  says,  "the  sons  of 
God  went  in  unto  the  daughters  of  men  "  (Gen. 


vi.  4),  and  those  mixtures  were  the  great  offense. 
But  now  there  is  no  form  of  wickedness,  which 
is  unattempted.  Do  you  then  believe  that  the 
deluge  took  place?  Or  does  it  seem  to  you  a 
fable?  And  yet  even  the  mountains  where  the 
ark  rested,  bear  witness ;  I  speak  of  those  in 
Armenia. 

But,  even  superabundantly,  I  will  turn  my 
discourse  to  another  thing  more  evident  than 
that.  Has  any  one  of  you  ever  traveled  in  Pal- 
estine? For  I  will  no  longer  mention  report, 
but  facts,  and  yet  the  other  were  clearer  than 
facts.  For  whatever  things  the  Scripture  says, 
are  more  to  be  trusted  than  things  we  see.  Has 
any  one  of  you  then  ever  traveled  in  Palestine  ? 
I  suppose  so.  What  then?  Bear  witness  then 
for  me,  ye  who  have  seen  the  places,  to  those 
who  have  not  been  there.  For  above  Ascalon 
and  Gaza  up  to  the  very  end  of  the  river  Jordan 
there  is  a  country  wide  and  fruitful  —  or  rather 
there  was  —  for  it  is  not  now.  This  then  is  that 
which  was  as  a  garden.  For  it  is  said,  "Lot 
beheld  all  the  plain1  of  Jordan  —  and  it  was 
well  watered  everywhere,  like  the  garden  of  the 
Lord."  (Gen.  xiii.  10.)  This,  therefore,  that 
was  so  flourishing,  and  that  rivaled  all  countries, 
which  for  thrivingness  exceeded  the  Paradise  of 
God,  is  now  more  desolate  than  any  wilderness. 
And  there  stand  trees,  indeed,  and  they  bear 
fruit.  But  the  fruit  is  a  monument  of  the  wrath 
of  God.  For  there  stand  pomegranates,  I  speak 
both  of  the  tree  and  the  fruit,  having  a  very  fine 
appearance,  and  to  the  ignorant  man  holding 
out  great  hopes.  But  if  they  are  taken  into  the 
hand,  being  broken  open  they  display  no  fruit 
indeed,  but  much  dust  and  ashes  stored  up 
within.  Such  also  is  the  whole  land.  If  you 
find  a  stone,  you  will  find  it  full  of  ashes.  And 
why  do  I  speak  of  stone  and  wood  and  earth, 
where  the  air  and  water  partake  of  the  calamity  ? 
For  as  when  a  body  is  burnt  and  consumed,  the 
shape  remains,  and  the  outline  in  the  appear- 
ance of  the  fire,  and  the  bulk  and  the  propor- 
tion, but  the  power  is  no  more,  so  truly  there 
you  may  see  earth,  which  yet  has  nothing  of 
earth  about  it,  but  all  ashes ;  trees  and  fruit,  but 
nothing  of  trees  and  fruit  about  them  ;  air  and 
water,*  but  nothing  of  water  nor  of  air  about 
them,  for  even  these  are  turned  to  ashes.  And 
yet  how  could  air  ever  have  been  burnt,  or  water, 
whilst  it  remained  water  ?  For  wood  and  stones 
indeed  it  is  possible  to  burn,  but  air  and  water 
it  is  altogether  impossible.  Impossible  to  us,  but 
possible  to  Him  who  did  these  things.  There- 
fore the  air  is  nothing  else  than  a  furnace,  the 
water  is  a  furnace.     All   things  are  unfruitful, 

1  [Properly  "  the  region  around  Jordan,"  and  denoting  the  deep 
and  rather  wide  valley  through  which  it  flows.  Chrys.  makes  it  in- 
clude all  of  central  Judea,  and  applies  to  that  whole  district  what  he 
had  heard  of  the  desolate  country  between  Jerusalem  and  the  Dead 
Sea,  the  N.  T.  •«  wilderness  of  Judea."  — J.  A.  B.] 


35» 


WORKS   OF   ST.    CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  VIII. 


all  unproductive,  all  for  vengeance;  images  of 
wrath  that  has  gone  before,  and  proofs  of  that 
which  is  to  come. 

Are  these  too  but  threatening  words?  Are 
these  but  the  sound  of  words  ?  For  to  me  in- 
deed the  former  things  were  not  incredible,  but 
things  not  seen  were  equally  credible  with  things 
that  were  seen.  But  even  to  the  unbeliever 
these  are  sufficient  to  produce  faith.  If  any  one 
disbelieves  hell,  let  him  consider  Sodom,  let 
him  reflect  upon  Gomorrah,  the  vengeance  that 
has  been  inflicted,  and  which  yet  remains.  This 
is  a  proof  of  the  eternity  of  punishment.  Are 
these  things  grievous?  And  is  it  not  grievous, 
when  you  say  that  there  is  no  hell,  but  that  God 
has  merely  threatened  it?  when  you  slack  the 
hands  of  the  people?1  It  is  thou  who  disbe- 
lievest  that  compellest  me  to  say  these  things ; 
it  is  thou  that  hast  drawn  me  out  into  these 
words.  If  thou  believedst  the  words  of  Christ, 
I  should  not  be  compelled  to  bring  forward 
facts  to  induce  belief.  But  since  you  have 
evaded  them,  you  shall  be  persuaded  hence- 
forth, whether  willing  or  unwilling.  For  what 
have  you  to  say  concerning  Sodom  ?  Would  you 
wish  also  to  know  the  cause,  for  which  these 
things  were  then  done  ?  It  was  one  sin,  a  griev- 
ous and  accursed  one  certainly,  yet  but  one. 
The  men  of  that  time  had  a  passion  for  boys, 
and  on  that  account  they  suffered  this  punish- 
ment. But  now  ten  thousand  sins  equal  and 
even  more  grievous  than  these  are  committed. 
Then  He  who  for  one  sin  poured  forth  so  much 
anger,  and  neither  regarded  the  supplication  of 
Abraham,  nor  yet  Lot  who  dwelt  among  them, 
the  man  who  from  honor  to  His  servants  offered 
his  own  daughters  to  insult,  will  He  spare,  when 
there  are  so  many  sins?  These  things  truly 
are  ridiculous,  trifling,  delusion,  and  diabolical 
deceit ! 

Do  you  wish  that  I  should  also  bring  forward 
another?  You  have  certainly  heard  of  Pharaoh, 
king  of  the  Egyptians ;  you  know  therefore  the 
punishment  also  which  he  suffered,  how  even 
with  his  whole  host,  chariots  and  horses  and  all, 
he  was  engulfed  in  the  Erythraean  sea.  Would 
you  hear  also  other  examples  ?  he  perhaps  was 
an  impious  man,  or  rather  not  perhaps,  bilt  cer- 
tainly he  was  an  impious  man.  Would  you  see 
those  also  punished,  who  were  of  the  number 
of  believers,  and  who  held  fast  to  God,  but  were 
not  of  upright  life  ?  Hear  Paul  saying,  "  Neither 
let  us  commit  fornication,  as  some  of  them  com- 
mitted, and  fell  in  one  day  three  and  twenty 
thousand.  Neither  let  us  murmur,  as  some  of 
them  murmured,  and  perished  by  the  destroyer. 
Neither  let  us  tempt  Christ,  as  some  of  them 
tempted,  and  perished  by  the  serpents."  (i 
Cor.  x.  8-1  o.)     And  if  fornication,  and  if  mur- 

1  Sec  Hcb.  xii.  za;  Jer.  xxxviii.  4. 


muring  had  such  power,  what  will  not  be  the 
effect  of  our  sins  ? 

And  if  thou  dost  not  now  pay  the  penalty,  do 
not  wonder.     For  they  knew  not  of  a  hell,  there- 
fore they  were  visited  with  punishments  follow- 
ing close  at  their  heels.     But  thou,  whatever 
sins  thou  commit,  though  thou  shouldest  escape 
present  penalty,  wilt  pay  for  it  all  There.     Did 
he  so  punish  those  who  were  nearly  in  the  state 
of  children,  and  who  did  not  sin  so  greatly  — 
and  will  He  spare  us  ?     It  would  not  be  reason- 
able.     For  if  we  commit  the  same  sins  with 
them,  we   shall   deserve  a  greater  punishment 
than  they  did.     Wherefore  ?     Because  we  have 
enjoyed  more  grace.     But  when  our  offenses  are 
numerous,  and  more  heinous  than  theirs,  what 
vengeance  shall  we  not  undergo  ?    They  —  and 
let  no  one  think  I  say  it  as  admiring  them,  or 
excusing  them ;  far  be  it :  for  when  God  pun- 
ishes, he  who  passes  a  contrary  sentence,  does 
it  at  the  suggestion  of  the  devil;    I    say  this 
therefore,  not  praising  them  nor  excusing  them, 
but  showing  our  wickedness  —  they  therefore, 
although  they  murmured,  were,  however,  travel- 
ing a  wilderness  road :  but  we  murmur  though 
we  have  a  country,  and  are  in  our  own  houses. 
They,  although  they  committed  fornication,  yet 
it  was  just  after  they  came  out  of  the  evils  of 
Egypt,  and  had  hardly  heard  of  such  a  law. 
But  we  do  it,  having  previously  received  from 
our  forefathers  the  doctrine  of  salvation,  so  that 
we  are  deserving  of  greater  punishment. 

Would  you  hear  also  of  other  things?  what 
were  their  sufferings  in  Palestine,  famines,  pesti- 
lences, wars,  captivities,  under  the  Babylonians, 
and  under  the  Assyrians,  and  their  miseries  from 
the  Macedonians,  and  those  under  Hadrian  and 
Vespasian  ?  I  have  something  that  1  wish,  be- 
loved, to  relate  to  thee  ;  nay,  do  not  run  away !  * 
Or  rather  I  will  tell  thee  another  thing  before  it. 
There  was  once  a  famine,  it  says,  and  the  king 
was  walking  upon  the  wall ;  then  a  woman  came 
to  him  and  uttered  these  words  :  "  O  king,  this 
woman  said  to  me,  Let  us  roast  thy  son  to-day, 
and  eat  him  —  to-morrow  mine.  And  we  roasted 
and  ate,  and  now  she  does  not  give  me  hers." 
(From  2  Kings  vi.  28.)  What  can  be  more 
dreadful  than  this  calamity  ?  Again,  in  another 
place  the  Prophet  says,  "  The  hands  of  the  piti- 
ful women  have  sodden  their  own  children." 
(Lam.  iv.  10.)  The  Jews  then  suffered  such 
punishment,  and  shall  we  not  much  rather  suffer? 

Would  you  also  hear  other  calamities  of  theirs? 
Read  over  Josephus,  and  you  will  learn  that 
whole  tragedy,  if  perchance  we  may  persuade 
you  from  these  things,  that  there  is  a  hell.  For 
consider,  if  they  were  punished,  why  are  we  not 
punished?  or  how  is  it  reasonable  that  we  are 
not  now  punished,  who  sin  more  grievously  than 

*  fiy  airon-i}6i)<ri7f ,  perhaps  only  "  turn  away." 


iOMlLY  VIII.] 


HOMILIES   ON   THESSALONIANS. 


359 


hey  ?  Is  it  not  manifest  that  it  is,  because  the 
mnishment  is  kept  in  store  for  us?  And,  if  you 
)lease,  I  will  tell  you  in  the  person  of  every 
ndividual  how  they  were  punished.  Cain  mur- 
lered  his  brother.  A  horrible  sin  indeed,  who 
:an  deny  it  ?  But  he  suffered  punishment ;  and 
i  heavy  one,  equivalent  to  ten  thousand  deaths, 
or  he  would  rather  have  died  ten  thousand 
imes.  For  hear  him  saying,  "  If  Thou  castest 
ne  out  from  the  land,  and  I  shall  be  hidden 
rom  Thy  face,  then  it  will  happen  that  every 
me  who  findeth  me  will  slay  me."  (Gen  iv.  14, 
>ept.)  Tell  me  then,  do  not  many  even  now  do 
he  same  things  that  he  did  ?  For  when  thou 
layest  not  thy  brother  according  to  the  flesh, 
>ut  thy  spiritual  brother,  dost  thou  not  do  the 
iame  ?  For  what,  though  not  by  the  sword  ?  yet 
>y  some  other  means ;  when  being  able  to  re- 
ieve  his  hunger,  thou  neglectest  him.  What 
hen?  Has  no  one  now  envied  his  brother?  has 
10  one  plunged  him  into  dangers?  But  here 
hey  have  not  suffered  punishment,  yet  they  will 
;uffer  it.  Then  he,  who  never  heard  the  written 
aws,  nor  the  prophets,  nor  saw  great  miracles, 
suffered  such  great  vengeance;  and  shall  he, 
vho  has  done  the  same  things  in  another  way, 
ind  was  not  rendered  wise  by  so  many  examples, 
ihall  he  go  unpunished  ?  Where  then  is  the  jus- 
ice  of  God,  and  where  His  goodness? 

Again,  a  certain  one  for  having  gathered  sticks 
)n  the  Sabbath  was  stoned,  and  yet  this  was  a 
small  commandment,  and  less  weighty  than  cir- 
:umcision.  He  then  who  gathered  sticks  on  the 
Sabbath  was  stoned  ;  but  those  who  often  com- 
nit  ten  thousand  things  contrary  to  the  Law 
lave  gone  off  unpunished  !  If  then  there  be 
lot  a  hell,  where  is  His  justice,  where  His  im- 
partiality, that  respects  not  persons?  And  yet 
fie  lays  to  their  charge  many  such  things,  that 
;hey  did  not  observe  the  Sabbath. 

Again,  another,  Charmi,1  having  stolen  a  de- 
moted thing,  was  stoned  with  all  his  family. 
iVhat  then?  Has  no  one  from  that  time  com- 
nitted  sacrilege?  Saul,  again,  having  spared 
:ontrary  to  the  command  of  God,  suffered  so 
jreat  punishment.  Has  no  one  from  that  time 
•pared  ?  Would  indeed  that  it  were  so  !  Have 
ve  not,  worse  than  wild  beasts,  devoured  one 
mother  contrary  to  the  command  of  God,  and 
ret  no  one  has  fallen  in  war?2  Again,  the  sons 
)f  Eli,  because  they  ate  before  the  incense  was 
)ffered,  suffered  the  most  severe  punishment  to- 
gether with  their  father.  Has  no  father  then 
>een  neglectful  with  respect  to  his  children? 
uid  are  there  no  wicked  sons  ?     But  no  one  has 

1  [This  is  an  error  in  the  documents,  or  a  slip  of  memory  in  the 
treacher,  for   he  means  Achan  the  son  of  Carmi,  Josh.  vii.  x. — 

•  A-  Bl 

*  [No  one  of  us  has  been  punished  for  it,  as  Saul  was,  by  falling 

a  battle. — J.  A.  B.] 


suffered  punishment.     Where  will  they  suffer  it 
then,  if  there  be  no  hell? 

Again,  numberless  instances  one  might  enu- 
merate. What?  Ananias  and  Sapphira  were 
immediately  punished,  because  they  stole  part  of 
what  they  had  offered.  Has  no  one  then  since 
that  time  been  guilty  of  this?  How  was  it  then  , 
that  they  did  not  suffer  the  same  punishment  ? 

Do  we  then  persuade  you  that  there  is  a  hell, 
or  do  you  need  more  examples  ?  Therefore  we 
will  proceed  also  to  things  that  are  unwritten, 
such  as  now  take  place  in  life.  For  it  is  neces- 
sary that  this  idea  should  be  gathered  by  us  from 
every  quarter,  that  we  may  not,  by  vainly  grati- 
fying ourselves,  do  ourselves  harm.  Do  you  not 
see  many  visited  by  calamities,  maimed  in  their 
bodies,  suffering  infinite  troubles,  but  others  in 
good  repute  ?  For  what  reason  do  some  suffer 
punishment  for  murders,  and  others  not  ?  Hear 
Paul  saying,  "  Some  men's  sins  are  evident,  .  .  . 
and  some  men  they  follow  after."  (1  Tim.  v. 
24.)  How  many  murderers  have  escaped  !  how 
many  violators  of  the  tombs !  But  let  these 
things  pass.  How  many  do  you  not  see  visited 
with  the  severest  punishment  ?  Some  have  been 
delivered  to  a  long  disease,  others  to  continued 
tortures,  and  others  to  numberless  other  ills. 
When  therefore  you  see  one  who  has  been  guilty 
of  the  same  things  as  they,  or  even  much  worse 
—  and  yet  not  suffering  punishment,  will  you  not 
suspect,  even  against  your  will,  that  there  is  a 
hell  ?  Reckon  those  here  who  before  you  have 
been  severely  punished,  consider  that  God  is  no 
respecter  of  persons,  and  that  though  you  have 
done  numberless  wickednesses,  you  have  suf- 
fered no  such  thing,  and  you  will  have  the  idea 
of  hell.  For  God  has  so  implanted  that  idea 
within  us,  that  no  one  can  ever  be  ignorant  of 
it.  For  poets  and  philosophers  and  fabulists, 
and  in  short  all  men,  have  philosophized  con- 
cerning the  retribution  that  is  there,  and  have 
said  that  the  greater  number  are  punished  in 
Hades.  And  if  those  things  are  fables,  yet 
what  we  have  received  are  not  so. 

I  say  not  these  things  as  wishing  to  frighten 
you,  nor  to  lay  a  burden  on  your  souls,  but  to 
make  them  wise,  and  render  them  easier.  I 
could  wish  also  myself  that  there  were  no  pun- 
ishment— yes,  myself  most  of  all  men.  And 
why  so  ?  Because  whilst  each  of  you  fears  for 
his  own  soul,  I  have  to  answer  for  this  office  also 
in  which  I  preside  over  you.  So  that  most  of 
all  it  is  impossible  for  me  to  escape.  But  it  can- 
not be  that  there  is  not  punishment  and  a  hell. 
What  can  I  do  ?  Where  then,  they  say,  is  the 
kindness  of  God  to  men  ?  In  many  places.  But 
on  this  subject  I  will  rather  discourse  at  some 
other  season,  that  we  may  not  confuse  the 
discourses  concerning  hell.  In  the  meantime 
let  not  that  slip,  which  we  have  gained.     For 


#o 


WORKS   OF   ST.    CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  IX. 


it  is  no  small  advantage  to  be  persuaded 
concerning  hell.  For  the  recollection  of  such 
discourses,  like  some  bitter  medicine,  will  be 
able  to  clear  off  every  vice,  if  it  be  constantly 
settled  in  your  mind.  Let  us  therefore  use  it, 
that  having  a  pure  heart,  we  may  so  be  thought 


worthy  to  see  those  things,  which  eye  hath  not 
seen,  nor  ear  heard,  nor  have  entered  into  the 
heart  of  man.  Which  may  we  all  obtain  by  the 
grace  and  mercy  of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  with 
whom,  &c. 


HOMILY    IX. 

I  Thessalonians  V.   I,  2. 


"  But  concerning  the  times  and  the  seasons,  brethren,  ye 
have  no  need  that  aught  be  written  unto  you.  For 
yourselves  know  perfectly  that  the  day  of  the  Lord 
so  cometh  as  a  thief  in  the  night" 

Nothing,  as  it  seems,  is  so  curious,  and  so 
fondly  prone  to  pry  into  things  obscure  and  con- 
cealed, as  the  nature  of  men.  And  this  is  wont 
to  happen  to  it,  when  the  mind  is  unsettled  and 
in  an  imperfect  state.  For  the  simpler  sort  of 
children  never  cease  teasing  their  nurses,  and 
tutors,  and  parents,  with  their  frequent  questions, 
in  which  there  is  nothing  else  but  "  when  will 
this  be ?"  and  " when  that?"  And  this  comes 
to  pass  also  from  living  in  indulgence,  and  hav- 
ing nothing  to  do.  Many  things  therefore  our 
mind  is  in  haste  to  learn  already  and  to  com- 
prehend, but  especially  concerning  the  period  of 
the  consummation ;  and  what  wonder  if  we  are 
thus  affected,  for  those  holy  men,  themselves, 
were  most  of  all  affected  in  the  same  way?  And 
before  the  Passion,  the  Apostles  come  and  say 
to  Christ,  "Tell  us,  when  shall  these  things  be, 
and  what  shall  be  the  sign  of  Thy  coming,  and 
of  the  end  of  the  world?"  (Matt.  xxiv.  23.) 
And  after  the  Passion  and  the  Resurrection  from 
the  dead,  they  said  to  Him,  Tell  us,  "  dost  Thou 
at  this  time  restore  again  the  kingdom  to  Is- 
rael?" (From  Acts  i.  6.)  And  they  asked  Him 
nothing  sooner  than  this. 

But  it  was  not  so  afterwards,  when  they  had 
been  vouchsafed  the  Holy  Ghost.  Not  only  do 
they  not  themselves  inquire,  nor  complain  of 
this  ignorance,  but  they  repress  those  who  labor 
under  this  unseasonable  curiosity.  Hear  for  in- 
stance what  the  blessed  Paul  now  says,  "  But 
concerning  the  times  and  the  seasons,  brethren, 
ye  have  no  need  that  aught  be  written  unto 
you."  Why  has  he  not  said  that  no  one  knows? 
why  has  he  not  said,  that  it  is  not  revealed,  in- 
stead of  saying,  "Ye  have  no  need  that  aught 
be  written  unto  you  "?  Because  in  that  case  he 
would  have  grieved  them  more,  but  by  speaking 
thus  he  comforted  them.  For  by  the  expres- 
sion, "Ye  have  no  need,"  as  if  it  were  both 
superfluous,  and  inexpedient,  he  suffers  them 
not  to  enquire. 


For  tell  me,  what  would  be  the  advantage? 
Let  us  suppose  that  the  end  would  be  after 
twenty  or  thirty  or  a  hundred  years,  what  is  this 
to  us  ?  Is  not  the  end  of  his  own  life  the  con- 
summation to  every  individual  ?  Why  art  thou 
curious,  and  travailest  about  the  general  end? 
But  the  case  is  the  same  with  us  in  this,  as  in 
other  things.  For  as  in  other  things,  leaving 
our  own  private  concerns,  we  are  anxious  about 
things  in  general,  saying,  Such  an  one  is  a  forni- 
cator, such  an  one  an  adulterer,  that  man  has 
robbed,  another  has  been  injurious ;  but  no  one 
takes  account  of  what  is  his  own,  but  each  thinks 
of  anything  rather  than  his  own  private  concerns ; 
so  here  also,  each  omitting  to  take  thought 
about  his  own  end,  we  are  anxious  to  hear  about 
the  general  dissolution.  Now  what  concern  is 
that  of  yours  ?  for  if  you  make  your  own  a  good 
end,  you  will  suffer  no  harm  from  the  other ;  be 
it  far  off,  or  be  it  near.     This  is  nothing  to  us. 

For  this  reason  Christ  did  not  tell  it,  because 
it  was  not  expedient.  How,  you  say,  was  it  not 
expedient?  He  who  also  concealed  it  knows 
wherefore  it  was  not  expedient.  For  hear  Him 
saying  to  His  Apostles,  "It  is  not  for  you  to 
know  times,  or  seasons,  which  the  Father  hath 
set  within  His  own  authority."  (Acts  i.  7.) 
Why  are  you  curious?  Peter,  the  chief  of  the 
Apostles,  and  his  fellows,  heard  this  said,  as  if  they 
were  seeking  things  too  great  for  them  to  know. 
True,  you  say ;  but  it  were  possible  to  stop  the 
mouths  of  the  Greeks  in  this  way.  How  ?  tell 
me.  Because  they  say,  that  this  world  is  a  god  ; 
if  we  knew  the  period  of  its  dissolution,  we 
should  have  stopped  their  mouths.  Why,  is  this 
what  will  stop  their  mouths,  to  know  when  it 
will  be  destroyed,  or  to  know  that  it  will  be 
destroyed  ?  Tell  them  this,  that  it  will  have  an 
end.  If  they  do  not  believe  this,  neither  will 
they  believe  the  other. 

Hear  Paul  saying,  "  For  yourselves  know  per- 
fectly that  the  day  of  the  Lord  so  cometh  as  a 
thief  in  the  night."  Not  the  general  day  only, 
but  that  of  every  individual.  For  the  one  re- 
sembles the  other,  is  also  akin  to  it.  For  what 
the  one  does  collectively,  that  the  other  does 


Homily  IX.] 


HOMILIES   ON   THESSALONIANS. 


36l 


partially.  For  the  period  of  consummation  took 
its  beginning  from  Adam,  and  then  is  the  end 
of  the  consummation ;  l  since  even  now  one 
would  not  err  in  calling  it  a  consummation. 
For  when  ten  thousand  die  every  day,  and  all 
await  That  Day,  and  no  one  is  raised  before  it, 
is  it  not  the  work 2  of  That  Day  ?  And  if  you 
would  know  on  what  account  it  is  concealed, 
and  why  it  so  cometh  as  a  thief  in  the  night,  I 
will  tell  you  how  I  think  I  can  well  account  for 
it.  No  one  would  have  ever  cultivated  virtue 
during  his  whole  life ;  but  knowing  his  last  day, 
and,  after  having  committed  numberless  sins, 
then  having  come  to  the  Laver,  he  would  so 
have  departed.  For  if  now,  when  the  fear  aris- 
ing from  its  uncertainty  shakes  the  souls  of  all, 
still  all,8  having  spent  their  whole  former  life  in 
wickedness,  at  their  last  breath  give  themselves 
up  to  Baptism,  —  if  they  had  fully  persuaded 
themselves  concerning  this  matter,  who  would 
ever  have  cultivated  virtue?  If  many  have  de- 
parted without  Illumination,  and  not  even  this 
fear  has  taught  them,  whilst  living,  to  cultivate 
the  things  that  are  pleasing  to  God ;  if  this  fear 
also  had  been  removed,  who  would  ever  have 
been  sober,  or  who  gentle  ?  There  is  not  one  ! 
And  another  thing  again.  The  fear  of  death 
and  the  love  of  life  restrain  many.  But  if  each 
one  knew  that  to-morrow  he  would  certainly  die, 
there  is  nothing  he  would  refuse  to  attempt  be- 
fore that  day,  but  he  would  murder  whomsoever 
he  wished,  and  would  retrieve  himself  by  taking 
vengeance  on  his  enemies,  and  would  perpetrate 
ten  thousand  crimes. 

For  a  wicked  man,  who  despairs  of  his  life 
here,  pays  no  regard  even  to  him  who  is  invested 
with  the  purple.  He  therefore  who  was  per- 
suaded that  he  must  at  all  events  die  would  both 
be  revenged  upon  his  enemy,  and  after  having 
first  satisfied  his  own  soul,  so  would  meet  his 
end.  Let  me  mention  also  a  third  thing.  Those 
who  are  fond  of  life,  and  vehemently  attached  to 
the  things  of  this  world,  would4  be  ruined  by 
despair  and  grief.  For  if  any  of  the  young  knew 
that  before  he  reached  old  age,  he  should  meet 
his  end,  as  the  most  sluggish  of  wild  beasts,  when 
they  are  taken,  become  stillmore  sluggish  from 
expecting  their  end,  so  would  he  also  be  affected. 
Besides,  not  even  the  men  that  are  courageous 
would  have  had  their  reward.  For  if  they  knew 
that  after  three  years  they  must  certainly  die,  and 
before  that  time  it  was  not  possible,  what  reward 
would  they  have  gained  for  daring  in  the  face  of 
dangers?      For   any   one   might   say   to   them, 

1  [This  is  obscure  as  to  the  exact  purport.  Does  "  then  "  mean 
the  end  of  the  individual  life,  or  the  time  of  Christ's  coming?  The 
expanded  text  understood  it  in  the  former  sense.— -J.  A.  B.J 

*  rb  tpyov,  i.e.  is  not  what  is  now  doing  part  of  That  Day's  work? 
Or  it  might  be  rendered  "  reality." 

*  i.e.  as  we  say  loosely,  "  every  one."  St.  Greg.  Naz.  complains 
of  this  practice,  Or.  XL.,  preached  at  Constantinople,  a.d.  381. 

4  iie^BapTfuay. 


Because  you  are  confident  of  the  three  years  of 
life,  for  this  reason  you  throw  yourselves  into 
dangers,  knowing  that  it  is  not  possible  for  you 
to  pass  away.  For  he,  that  expects  from  each 
danger  that  he  may  come  by  his  death,  and 
knows  that  he  shall  live  indeed,  if  he  does  not 
expose  himself  to  peril,  but  shall  die  if  he 
attempts  such  and  such  actions,  he  gives  the 
greatest  proof  of  his  zeal,  and  of  his  contempt 
for  the  present  life.  And  this  I  will  make  plain 
to  you  by  an  example.  Tell  me,  if  the  patriarch 
Abraham,  foreknowing  that  he  should  not  have 
to  sacrifice  his  son,  had  brought  him  to  the 
place,  would  he  then  have  had  any  reward? 
And  what  if  Paul,  foreknowing  that  he  should 
not  die,  had  despised  dangers,  in  what  respect 
would  he  have  been  admirable  ?  For  so  even  the 
most  sluggish  would  rush  into  the  fire,  if  he  could 
find  any  one  he  could  trust  to  ensure  his  safety. 
But  not  such  were  the  Three  Children.  For 
hear  them  saying,  "O  king,  there  is  a  God  in 
heaven,  who  will  deliver  us  out  of  thine  hands, 
and  out  of  this  furnace ;  and  if  not,  be  it  known 
to  thee  that  we  do  not  serve  thy  gods,  nor  wor- 
ship the  golden  image  which  thou  hast  set  up.,r 
(Dan.  hi.  17,  Sept.) 

Ye  see  how  many  advantages  there  are,  and 
yet  there  are  more  than  these  that  arise  from 
not  knowing  the  time  of  our  end.  Meanwhile 
it  is  sufficient  to  learn  these.  On  this  account 
He  so  cometh  as  a  thief  in  the  night ;  that  we 
may  not  abandon  ourselves  to  wickedness,  nor 
to  sloth ;  that  He  may  not  take  from  us  our 
reward.  "For  yourselves  know  perfectly,"  he 
says.  Why  then  are  you  curious,  if  you  are 
persuaded?  But  that  the  future  is  uncertain, 
learn  from  what  Christ  has  said.  For  that  on 
this  account  He  said  it,  hear  what  he  says, 
"  Watch  therefore :  for  ye  know  not  at  what 
hour"  the  thief5  "cometh."  (Matt.  xxiv.  42.) 
On  this  account  also  Paul  said, 

Ver.  3.  "When  they  are  saying  peace  and 
safety,  then  sudden  destruction  cometh  upon 
them,  as  travail  upon  a  woman  with  child  ;  and 
they  shall  in  nowise  escape." 

Here  he  has  glanced  at  something  which  he 
has  also  said  in  his  second  Epistle.  For  since* 
they  indeed  were  in  affliction,  but  they  that 
warred  on  them  at  ease  and  in  luxury,  and  then 
while  he  comforted  them  in  their  present  suffer- 
ings by  this  mention  of  the  Resurrection,  the 
others  insulted  them  with  arguments  taken  from 
their  forefathers,  and  said,  When  will  it  happen  ? 


5  [This  may  be  considered  a  mere  slip  of  memory,  or  Chrys.  may 
have  inserted  "  the  thief"  as  representing  our  Lord.  The  Rev.  Ver. 
properly  reads  "  on  what  day,"  in  ver.  42,  "at  what  hour"  having 
been  drawn  from  ver.  44,  where  all  documents  have  it.  Chrys.  has, 
as  so  often,  the  reading  which  passed  into  the  Textus  Receptus.— 
J.  A.  B.] 

•  [To  this  "  since  "  answers  *'  see  then,"  below.  He  digresses 
to  quote  the  Prophets,  and  then  returns  in  a  way  very  natural  to  free 
speaking.  —  J.  A.  B.j 


362 


WORKS   OF   ST.   CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  IX. 


— which  the  Prophets  also  said,  "Woe  unto  them 
that  say,  Let  him  make  speed,  let  God  hasten 
his  work,  that  we  may  see  it :  and  let  the  coun- 
sel of  the  Holy  One  of  Israel  come,  that  we  may 
know  it!"  (Isa.v.  19)  ;  and  again  "Woe  unto 
them  that  desire  the  day  of  the  Lord."  (Amos 
v.  18.)  He  means  this  day;  for  he  does  not 
speak  simply  of  persons  who  desire  it,  but  of 
those  who  desire  it  because  they  disbelieve  it : 
and  "the  day  of  the  Lord,"  he  says,  "is  dark- 
ness, and  not  light"  —  see  then  how  Paul  con- 
soles them,  as  if  he  had  said,  Let  them  not 
account  their  being  in  a  prosperous  state,  a 
proof  that  the  Judgment  is  not  coming.  For 
so  it  is  that  it  will  come. 

But  it  may  be  worth  while  to  ask,  If  Anti- 
christ comes,  and  Elias  comes,  how  is  it  "  when 
they  say  Peace  and  safety,"  that  then  a  sudden 
destruction  comes  upon  them?  For  these 
things  do  not  permit  the  day  to  come  upon  them 
unawares,  being  signs  of  its  coming.  But  he 
does  not  mean  this  to  be  the  time  of  Antichrist, 
and  the  whole  day,  because  that  will  be  a  sign 
of  the  coming  of  Christ,  but  Himself  will  not 
have  a  sign,  but  will  come  suddenly  and 
unexpectedly.  For  travail,  indeed,  you  say, 
does  not  come  upon  the  pregnant  woman  un- 
expectedly: for  she  knows  that  after  nine 
months  the  birth  will  take  place.  And  yet 
it  is  very  uncertain.  For  some  bring  forth  at 
the  seventh  month,  and  others  at  the  ninth. 
And  at  any  rate  the  day  and  the  hour  is  uncer- 
tain. With  respect  to  this  therefore,  Paul 
speaks  thus.  And  the  image  is  exact.  For 
there  are  not  many  sure  signs  of  travail ;  many 
indeed  have  brought  forth  in  the  high  roads,  or 
when  out  of  their  houses  and  abroad,  not  fore- 
seeing it.  And  he  has  not  only  glanced  here  at 
the  uncertainty,  but  also  at  the  bitterness  of  the 
pain.  For  as  she  while  sporting,  laughing,  not 
looking  for  anything  at  all,  being  suddenly  seized 
with  unspeakable  pains,  is  pierced  through  with 
the  pangs  of  labor  —  so  will  it  be  with  those 
souls,  when  the  Day  comes  upon  them. 

"And  they  shall  in  nowise  escape."  As  he 
was  saying  just  now. 

Ver.  4.  "  But  ye,  brethren,  are  not  in  dark- 
ness, that  that  day  should  overtake  you  as  a  thief." 

Here  he  speaks  of  a  life  that  is  dark  and 
impure.  For  it  is  just  as  corrupt  and  wicked 
men  do  all  things  as  in  the  night,  escaping  the 
notice  of  all,  and  inclosing  themselves  in  dark- 
ness. For  tell  me,  does  not  the  adulterer  watch 
for  the  evening,  and  the  thief  for  the  night? 
Does  not  the  violator  of  the  tombs  carry  on  all 
his  trade  in  the  night?  What  then?  Does  it 
not  overtake  them  as  a  thief?  Does  it  not  come 
upon  them  also  uncertainly,  but  do  they  know 
it  beforehand?  How  then  does  he  say,  "Ye 
have  no  need  that  aught  be  written  unto  you  "  ? 


He  speaks  here  not  with  respect  to  the  uncer- 
tainty, but  with  respect  to  the  calamity,  that  is, 
it  will  not  come  as  an  evil  to  them.  For  it  will 
come  uncertainly  indeed  even  to  them,  but  it 
will  involve  them  in  no  trouble.  "That  that 
Day,"  he  says,  "may  not  overtake  you  as  a 
thief."  For  in  the  case  of  those  who  are  watch- 
ing and  who  are  in  the  light,  if  there  should  be 
any  entry  of  a  robber,  it  can  do  them  no  harm  : 
so  also  it  is  with  those  who  live  well.  But  those 
who  are  sleeping  he  will  strip  of  everything,  and 
go  off;  that  is,  those 'who  are  trusting  in  the 
things  of  this  life. 

Ver.  5.  "For  ye  are  all,"  he  says,  "sons  of 
light,  and  sons  of  the  day." 

And  how  is  it  possible  to  be  "sons  of  the 
day  "  ?  Just  as  it  is  said,  "  sons  of  destruction  " 
and  "  sons  of  hell."  Wherefore  Christ  also  said 
to  the  Pharisees,  "  Woe  unto  you  —  for  ye  com- 
pass sea  and  land  to  make  one  proselyte,  and 
when  he  is  become  so,  ye  make  him  a  son  of 
hell."  (Matt,  xxiii.  15.)  And  again  Paul  said, 
"For  which  things'  sake  cometh  the  wrath  of 
God  upon  the  sons  of  disobedience/'  (Col.  iii. 
6.)  That  is,  those  who  do  the  works  of  hell 
and  the  works  of  disobedience.  So  also  sons  of 
God  are  those  who  do  things  pleasing  to  God ; 
so  also  sons  of  day  and  sons  of  light,  those  who 
do  the  works  of  light. 

"And  we  are  not  of  the  night  nor  of  darkness." 

Ver.  6,  7,  8.  "So  then  let  us  not  sleep,  as  do 
also  the  rest,  but  let  us  watch  and  be  sober. 
For  they  that  sleep  sleep  in  the  night ;  and  they 
that  be  drunken  are  drunken  in  the  night.  But 
let  us,  since  we  are  of  the  day,  be  sober." 

Here  he  shows,  that  to  be  in  the  day  depends 
on  ourselves.  For  here  indeed,  in  the  case  of 
the  present  day  and  night,  it  does  not  depend 
on  ourselves.  But  night  comes  even  against  our 
will,  and  sleep  overtakes  us  when  we  do  not 
wish  it.  But  with  respect  to  that  night  and  that 
sleep,  it  is  not  so,  but  it  is  in  our  power  always 
to  have  it  day,  it  is  in  our  power  always  to  watch. 
For  to  shut  the  eyes  of  the  soul,  and  to  bring  on 
the  sleep  of  wickedness,  is  not  of  nature,  but  of 
our  own  choice.  "  But  let  us  watch,"  he  says, 
"and  be  sober."  For  it  is  possible  to  sleep 
while  awake,  by  doing  nothing  good.  Where- 
fore he  has  added,  "  and  be  sober."  For  even 
by  day,  if  any  one  watches,  but  is  not  sober,  he 
will  fall  into  numberless  dangers,  so  that  sobriety 
is  the  intensity  of  watchfulness.  "They  that 
sleep,"  he  says,  "sleep  in  the  night,  and  they 
that  be  drunken  are  drunken  in  the  night."  The 
drunkenness  he  here  speaks  of  is  not  that  from 
wine  only,  but  that  also  which  comes  of  all  vices. 
For  riches  and  the  desire  of  wealth  is  a  drunken- 
ness of  the  soul,  and  so  carnal  lust ;  and  every 
sin  you  can  name  is  a  drunkenness  of  the  soul. 
On  what  account  then  has  he  called  vice  sleep? 


Homily  IX.] 


HOMILIES   ON   THESSALONIANS. 


363 


Because  in  the  first  place  the  vicious  man  is 
inactive  with  respect  to  virtue :  again,  because 
he  sees  everything  as  a  vision,  he  views  nothing 
in  its  true  light,  but  is  full  of  dreams,  and  often- 
times of  unreasonable  actions :  and  if  he  sees 
anything  good,  he1  has  no  firmness,  no  fixed- 
ness. Such  is  the  present  life.  It  is  full  of 
dreams,  and  of  phantasy.  Riches  are  a  dream, 
and  glory,  and  everything  of  that  sort.  He  who 
sleeps  sees  not  things  that  are  and  have  a  real 
subsistence,  but  things  that  are  not  he  fancies 
as  things  that  are.  Such  is  vice,  and  the  life 
that  is  passed  in  vice.  It  sees  not  things  that 
are,  that  is,  spiritual,  heavenly,  abiding  things, 
but  things  that  are  fleeting  and  fly  away,  and 
that  soon  recede  from  us. 

But  it  is  not  sufficient  to  watch  and  be  sober, 
we  must  also  be  armed.  For  if  a  man  watch 
and  is  sober,  but  has  not  arms,  the  robbers  soon 
dispatch  him.  When  therefore  we  ought  both 
to  watch,  and  to  be  sober,  and  to  be  armed, 
and  we  are  unarmed  and  naked  and  asleep,  who 
will  hinder  him  from  thrusting  home  his  sword  ? 
Wherefore  showing  this  also,  that  we  have  need 
of  arms,  he  has  added : 

Ver.  8.  "  Putting  on  the  breastplate  of  faith 
and  love :  and  for  a  helmet  the  hope  of  sal- 
vation." 

"  Of  faith  and  love,"  he  says.  Here  he  glances 
at  life  and  doctrine.  He  has  shown  what  it  is 
to  watch  and  be  sober,  to  have  "  the  breastplate 
of  faith  and  love."  Not  a  common  faith,  he 
says,  but  as  nothing  can  soon  pierce  through  a 
breastplate,  but  it  is  a  safe  wall  to  the  breast ;  — 
so  do  thou  also,  he  says,  surround  thy  soul  with 
faith  and  love,  and  none  of  the  fiery  darts  of  the 
devil  can  ever  be  fixed  in  it.  For  where  the 
power  of  the  soul  is  preoccupied  with  the  armor 
of  love,  all  the  devices  of  those  who  plot  against 
it  are  vain  and  ineffectual.  For  neither  wick- 
edness, nor  hatred,  nor  envy,  nor  flattery,  nor 
hypocrisy,  nor  any  other  thing  will  be  able  to 
penetrate  such  a  soul.  He  has  not  simply  said 
"love,"  but  he  has  bid  them  put  it  on  as  a 
strong  breastplate.  "  And  for  a  helmet  the  hope 
of  salvation."  For  as  the  helmet  guards  the 
vital  part  in  us,  surrounding  the  head  and  cover- 
ing it  on  every  side,  so  also  this  hope  does  not 
suffer  the  reason  to  falter,  but  sets  it  upright  as 
the  head,  not  permitting  anything  from  without 
to  fall  upon  it.  And  whilst  nothing  falls  on  it, 
neither  does  it  slip  of  itself.  For  it  is  not  pos- 
sible that  one  who  is  fortified  with  such  arms  as 
these,  should  ever  fall.  For  "  now  abideth  faith, 
hope,  love."  (1  Cor.  xiii.  13.)  Then  having 
said,  Put  on,  and  array  yourselves,  he  himself 
provides  the  armor,  whence  faith,  hope,  and  love 
may  be  produced,  and  may  become  strong. 

Ver.  9.     "For  God  appointed  us  not  unto 


1  Or  "  it." 


wrath,  but  unto  the  obtaining  of  salvation  through 
our  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  who  died  for  us." 

Thus  God  has  not  inclined  to  this,*  that  He 
might  destroy  us,  but  that  He  might  save  us. 
And  whence  is  it  manifest  that  this  is  His  will? 
He  has  given  His  own  Son  for  us.  So  does  He 
desire  that  we  should  be  saved,  that  He  has 
given  His  Son,  and  not  merely  given,  but  given 
Him  to  death.  From  these  considerations  hope 
is  produced.  For  do  not  despair  of  thyself,  O 
man,  in  going  to  God,  who  has  not  spared  even 
His  Son  for  thee.  Faint  not  at  present  evils. 
He  who  gave  His  Only-Begotten,  that  He  might 
save  thee  and  deliver  thee  from  hell,  what  will 
He  spare  henceforth  for  thy  salvation  ?  So  that 
thou  oughtest  to  hope  for  all  things  kind.  For 
neither  should  we  fear,  if  we  were  going  to  a 
judge  who  was  about  to  jud,ge  us,  and  who  had 
shown  so  much  love  for  us,  as  to  have  sacrificed 
his  son.  Let  us  hope  therefore  for  kind  and 
great  things,  for  we  have  received  the  principal 
thing;  let  us  believe,  for  we  have  seen  an 
example;  let  us  love,  for  it  is  the  extreme  of 
madness  for  one  not  to  love  who  has  been  so 
treated. 

Ver.  10,  11.  "That,  whether  we  wake  or 
sleep,"  he  says,  "  we  should  live  together  with 
Him.  Wherefore  exhort  one  another,  and  build 
each  other  up,  even  as  also  ye  do." 

And  again,  "  whether  we  wake  or  sleep " ; 
by  sleep  there  he  means  one  thing,  and  here 
another.  For  here,  "  whether  we  sleep  "  signi- 
fies the  death  of  the  body ;  that  is,  fear  not  dan- 
gers ;  though  we  should  die,  we  shall  live.  Do 
not  despair  because  thou  art  in  danger.  Thou 
hast  a  strong  security.  He  would  not  have 
given  His  Son  if  He  had  not  been  inflamed  by 
vehement  love  for  us.  So  that,  though  thou 
shouldest  die,  thou  wilt  live ;  for  He  Himself 
also  died.  Therefore  whether  we  die,  or 
whether  we  live,  we  shall  live  with  Him.  This 
is  a  matter  of  indifference :  it  is  no  concern  of 
mine,  whether  I  live  or  die ;  for  we  shall  live 
with  Him.  Let  us  therefore  do  everything  for 
that  life  :  looking  to  that,  let  us  do  all  our  works. 
Vice,  O  beloved,  is  darkness,  it  is  death,  it  is 
night ;  we  see  nothing  that  we  ought,  we  do 
nothing  that  becomes  us.  As  the  dead  are  un- 
sightly and  of  evil  odor,  so  also  the  souls  of 
those  who  are  vicious  are  full  of  much  impurity. 
Their  eyes  are  closed,  their  mouth  is  stopped, 
they  remain  without  motion  in  the  bed  of  vice ; 
or  rather  more  wretched  than  those  who  are 
naturally  dead.  For  they  truly  are  dead  to 
both,  but  these  are  insensible  indeed  to  virtue, 
but  alive  to  vice.  If  one  should  strike  a  dead 
man,  he  perceives  it  not,  he  revenges  it  not, 
but  is  like  a  dry  stick.  So  also  his  soul  is  truly 
dry,  having  lost  its  life ;  it  receives  daily  num- 

*  [The  altered  text  gives, "  has  not  called  us  to  this."  —  J.  A.  B  J 


364 


WORKS  OF   ST.  CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  IX. 


berless  wounds,  and  has  no  feeling  of  any,  but 
lies  insensible  to  everything. 

One  would  not  err  in  comparing  such  men  to 
those  who  are  mad,  or  drunk,  or  delirious.  All 
these  things  belong  to  vice,  and  it  is  worse  than 
all  these.  He  that  is  mad  is  much  allowed  for 
by  those  who  see  him,  for  his  disease  is  not 
from  choice,  but  from  nature  alone ;  but  how 
shall  he  be  pardoned,  who  lives  in  vice  ?  Whence 
then  is  vice?  whence  are  the  majority  bad? 
Tell  me,  whence  have  diseases  their  evil  nature  ? 
whence  is  frenzy?  whence  is  lethargy?  Is  it 
not  from  carelessness?  If  physical  disorders 
have  their  origin  in  choice,  much  more  those 
which  are  voluntary.  Whence  is  drunkenness  ? 
Is  it  not  from  intemperance  of  soul?  Is  not 
frenzy  from  excess  of  fever?  And  is  not  fever 
from  the  elements  too  abundant  in  us?  And  is 
not  this  superabundance  of  elements  from  our 
carelessness  ?  For  when  either  from  deficiency 
or  excess  we  carry  any  of  the  things  within  us 
beyond  the  bounds  of  moderation,  we  kindle 
that  fire.  Again,  if  when  the  fire  is  kindled,  we 
continue  to  neglect  it,  we  make  a  conflagration 
for  ourselves,  which  we  are  not  able  to  extin- 
guish. So  is  it  also  with  vice.  When  we  do 
not  restrain  it  at  its  beginning,  nor  cut  it  off,  we 
cannot  afterwards  reach  to  the  end  of  it,  but  it 
becomes  too  great  for  our  power.  Wherefore, 
I  beseech  you,  let  us  do  everything  that  we  may 
never  become  drowsy.  Do  you  not  see  that 
when  sentinels  have  only  given  way  a  little  to 
sleep,  they  derive  no  advantage  from  their  long 
watch,  for  by  that  little  they  have  ruined  the 
whole,  having  given  perfect  security  to  him  who 
is  prepared  to  steal.  For  as  we  do  not  see 
thieves  in  the  same  way  that  they  see  us,  so  also 
the  devil  most  of  all  is  ever  instant,  and  lying 
in  wait,  and  grinding  his  teeth.  Let  us  not  then 
slumber.  Let  us  not  say,  on  this  side  there  is 
nothing,  on  that  side  nothing;  we  are  often 
plundered  from  a  quarter  whence  we  did  not 
expect  it.  So  it  is  with  vice ;  we  perish  from  a 
quarter  whence  we  did  not  expect  it.  Let  us 
look  carefully  round  upon  all  things,  let  us  not 
be  drunken,  and  we  shall  not  sleep.  Let  us  not 
be  luxurious,  and  we  shall  not  slumber.  Let  us 
not  be  mad  for  external  things,  and  we  shall 
continue  in  sobriety.  Let  us  discipline  ourselves 
on  every  side.  And  as  men  who  walk  upon  a 
tight  rope  cannot  be  off  their  guard  ever  so 
little,  for  that  little  causes  great  mischief:  for 
the  man  losing  his  balance  is  at  once  precipi- 
tated down  and  perishes ;  so  neither  is  it  possi- 
ble for  us  to  be  off  our  guard.  We  walk  upon 
a  narrow  road  intercepted  by  precipices  on 
either  side,  not  admitting  of  two  feet  at  the 
same  time.  Seest  thou  not  how  much  careful- 
ness is  necessary?  Seest  thou  not  how  those 
who  travel  on  such  roads  guard  not  only  their 


feet,  but  their  eyes  also?  For  if  he  should 
choose  to  gaze  on  one  side,  though  his  foot 
stand  firm,  his  eye  becoming  dizzy  from  the 
depth,  plunges  the  whole  body  down.  But  he 
must  take  heed  to  himself  and  to  his  steps; 
wherefore  he  says,  "  neither  to  the  right  hand, 
nor  to  the  left."  (Prov.  iv.  27.)  Great  is  the 
depth  of  vice,  high  the  precipices,  much  dark- 
ness below.  Let  us  take  heed  to  the  narrow 
way,  let  us  walk  with  fear  and  trembling.  No 
one,  who  is  traveling  such  a  road,  is  dissolved 
in  laughter  nor  heavy  with  drunkenness,  but 
travels  such  a  road  with  sobriety  and  fasting. 
No  one  traveling  such  a  road  carries  with  him 
any  superfluities;  for  he  would  be  contented 
even  lightly  equipped  to  be  able  to  escape. 
No  one  entangles  his  own  feet,  but  leaves  them 
disengaged,  and  free  to  move. 

But  we,  chaining  ourselves  down  with  num- 
berless cares,  and  carrying  with  us  the  number- 
less burdens  of  this  life,  staring  about,  and 
loosely  rambling,  how  do  we  expect  to  travel  in 
that  narrow  road  ?  He  has  not  merely  said  that 
"narrow  is  the  way"  (Matt.  vii.  14),  but  with 
wonder,  "  how l  narrow  is  the  way/'  that  is,  ex- 
ceedingly narrow.  And  this  we  also  do  in  things 
that  are  quite  objects  of  wonder.  And  "  strait- 
ened," he  says,  "  is  the  way  which  leadeth  unto 
life."  And  he  has  well  said  it.  For  when  we 
are  bound  to  give  an  account  of  our  thoughts, 
and  words,  and  actions,  and  all  things,  truly  it  is 
narrow.  But  we  ourselves  make  it  more  narrow, 
spreading  out  and  widening  ourselves,  and  shuf- 
fling out  our  feet.  For  the  narrow  way  is  diffi- 
cult to  every  one,  but  especially  to  him  who  is 
incumbered  with  fat,  as  he  who  makes  himself 
lean  will  not  perceive  its  narrowness.  So  that 
he  who  has  practiced  himself  in  being  pinched, 
will  not  be  discouraged  at  its  pressure. 

Let  not  any  one  therefore  expect  that  he 
shall  see  heaven  with  ease.  For  it  cannot  be. 
Let  no  one  hope  to  travel  the  narrow  road  with 
luxury,  for  it  is  impossible.  Let  no  one  travel- 
ing in  the  broad  way  hope  for  life.  When 
therefore  thou  seest  such  and  such  an  one 
luxuriating  in  baths,  in  a  sumptuous  table,  or  in 
other  matters  having  troops  of  attendants ;  think 
not  thyself  unhappy,  as  not  partaking  of  these 
things,  but  lament  for  him,  that  he  is  traveling 
the  way  to  destruction.  For  what  is  the  advan- 
tage of  this  way,  when  it  ends  in  tribulation? 
And  what  is  the  injury  of  that  straitness,  when  it 
leads  to  rest  ?  Tell  me,  if  any  one  invited  to  a 
palace  should  walk  through  narrow  ways  painful 

1  [All  the  MSS.  examined  for  Field  give  not  on,  "  because," but 
ti,  •*  what,"  "  to  what  extent,"  "  how."  This  more  difficult  reading 
of  Matt.  vii.  14  is  quite  probably  correct.  See  Margin  of  Rev.  Vet. 
Observe  also  that  Chrys.  seems  to  omit  «'  the  gate,"  connectml 
"  narrow  and  straitened  with  the  way,  as  do  several  other  Father* 
(see  Tisch.).  Many  now  speak  of  the  "strait  and  narrow  way, 
and  often  imagine  that  it  means  "  straight."  Chrys.  has  a  different 
text  of  this  passage  in  his  Homilies  on  Matthew,  though  some  MSS- 
there  also  give  rt.    See  Amer.  ed.  of  Tr.  p.  16a.  —  J.  A.  B.J 


Homily  IX.] 


HOMILIES  ON   THESSALONIAHs. 


367 


and  precipitous,  and  another  led  to  death  should 
be  dragged  through  the  midst  of  the  market- 
place, which  shall  we  call  happy?  which  shall 
we  commiserate  ?  Him,  shall  we  not,  who  walks 
through  the  broad  road?  So  also  now,  let  us 
think  happy,  not  those  who  are  luxurious,  but 
those  who  are  not  luxurious.  These  are  hasten- 
ing to  heaven,  those  to  hell. 

And  perhaps  indeed  many  of  them  will  even 
laugh  at  the  things  that  are  said  by  us.  But  I 
most  of  all  lament  and  bewail  them  on  this  ac- 
count, that  they  do  not  even  know  what  they 
ought  to  laugh  at,  and  for  what  they  ought 
especially  to  mourn,  but  they  confound  and  dis- 
turb and  disorder  everything.  On  this  account 
I  bewail  them.  What  sayest  thou,  O  man,  when 
thou  art  to  rise  again,  and  to  give  an  account  of 
thy  actions,  and  to  undergo  the  last  sentence, 
dost  thou  pay  no  regard  indeed  to  these,  but 
give  thought  to  gratifying  thy  belly,  and  being 
drunken?  And  dost  thou  laugh  at  these  things? 
But  I  bewail  thee,  knowing  the  evils  that  await 
thee,  the  punishment  that  is  about  to  overtake 
thee.  And  this  I  most  especially  bewail,  that 
thou  dost  laugh  !  Mourn  with  me,  bewail  with 
me  thine  own  evils.  Tell  me,  if  one  of  thy 
friends  perishes,  dost  thou  not  turn  from  those 
who  laugh  at  his  end,  and  think  them  enemies, 
but  love  those  who  weep  and  sympathize  with 
thee?  Then  indeed  if  the  dead  body  of  thy 
wife  were  laid  out,  thou  tumest  from  him  that 
laughs  :  but  when  thy  soul  is  done  to  death,  dost 
thou  turn  from  him  that  weeps,  and  laugh  thy- 
self? Seest  thou  how  the  devil  has  disposed  us 
to  be  enemies  and  adversaries  to  ourselves  ?  For 
once  let  us  be  sober,  let  us  open  our  eyes,  let  us 
watch,  let  us  lay  hold  on  eternal  life,  let  us  shake 
off  this  long  sleep.  There  is  a  Judgment,  there 
is  a  Punishment,  there  is  a  Resurrection,  there 
is  an  Inquisition  into  what  we  have  done  !  The 
Lord  cometh  in  the  clouds.  "  Before  Him,"  he 
says,  "  a  fire  will  be  kindled,  and  round  about 
Him  a  mighty  tempest."  (Ps.  1.  3,  Sept.)  A 
river  of  fire  rolls  before  him,  the  undying  worm, 
unquenchable  fire,  outer  darkness,  gnashing  of 


teeth.  Although  you  shUrs  in  regard  to  faith, 
ten  thousand  times  for  me>ot  permit  them  to  be 
I  shall  not  cease  from  mentuso  in  his  Epistles  he 
the  prophets,  though  stoned,  >  the  faith  receive 
lence,  much  more  ought  we  to  *  bodies  too  we 
ties,  and  not  to  discourse  to  you  nerish.  "  Be 
please,  that  we  may  not,  for  haviir4Ven  toward 
you,  be  ourselves  cut  in  sunder.  The*  there  is 
ishment,  deathless,  unallayed,  and  no  for  the 
stand  up  for  us.  "  Who  will  pity,"  he  saysMn(jer 
charmer  that  is  bitten  by  a  serpent?  "  (Ec*un_ 
xii.  13.)  When  we  pity  not  our  own  selves,  t^ 
me,  who  will  pity  us  ?  If  you  see  a  man  piercing 
himself  with  a  sword,  will  you  be  able  to  spare 
his  life?  By  no  means.  Much  more,  when 
having  it  in  our  power  to  do  well  we  do  not  do 
well,  who  will  spare  us  ?  No  one  !  Let  us  pity 
ourselves.  When  we  pray  to  God,  saying,  "  Lord, 
have  mercy1  upon  me,"  let  us  say  it  to  our- 
selves, and  have  mercy  upon  ourselves.  We 
are  the  arbiters 2  of  God's  having  mercy  upon  us. 
This  grace  He  has  bestowed  upon  us.  If  we  do 
things  worthy  of  mercy,  worthy  of  His  loving- 
kindness  towards  us,  God  will  have  mercy  upon 
us.  But  if  we  have  not  mercy  on  ourselves,  who 
will  spare  us?  Have  mercy  on  thy  neighbor, 
and  thou  shalt  find  mercy  of  God  Himself.  How 
many  every  day  come  to  thee,  saying, "  Have  pity 
on  me,"  and  thou  dost  not  turn  towards  them  ; 
how  many  naked,  how  many  maimed,  and  we 
do  not  bend  toward  them,  but  dismiss  their  sup- 
plications. How  then  dost  thou  claim8  to 
obtain  mercy,  when  thou  thyself  dost  nothing 
worthy  of  mercy  ?  Let  us  become  compassionate, 
let  us  become  pitiful,  that  so  we  may  be  well- 
pleasing  to  God,  and  obtain  the  good  things 
promised  to  those  that  love  Him,  by  the  grace 
and  lovingkindness  of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ, 
with  whom,  &c. 


1  [It  is  the  word  above  rendered  "  pity/'  but  the  other  rendering 
is  made  familiar  in  this  phrase  by  the  Litany.  "  Have  pity,"  just 
below,  is  still  the  same  word. — J.  A.  B.] 

*  Gr.  "  We  are  lords,"  but  the  phrase  is  more  familiar  in  Greek. 

8  [The  verb  translated  "  claim'*  is  based  on  the  adjective  mean- 
ing "  worthy."  Chrys.  is  somewhat  fond  of  the  play  upon  words. — 
J.  A.  B.J 


364 


CX-P* 


2    3 


%% 


OQ  rjQ 


berless  wounds,  and 
lies  insensible  to  eve 

One  would  not 
those  who  are 
these  things 
all  these, 
by  those 
from  ch 
shall  h 
then 
Tell/'  *"» 


in 


OF   ST.  CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  X. 


\MILY    X. 


U\%% 


ALONIANS   V. 


12,    13. 


S3-*   «* 


«•  £**■  ft  «if.fr  \<£ 


O. 


a  *•  o  «■  s-o  a  a  3 


0»    <v    ^ 


3  p-° 


lA 


rc 


.—  pnysi- 
^tucn  trouble  to  the 
-  mem  both  diet  and  medicines, 
-„  not  pleasant  indeed,  but  attended  with 
benefit;  and  as  fathers  are  often  annoying  to 
their  children :  so  also  are  teachers,  and  much 
more.  For  the  physician,  though  he  be  odious 
to  the  sick  man,  yet  has  the  relations  and  friends 
on  good  terms  with  him,8  nay,  and  often  the 
sick  man  himself.  And  a  father  also,  both  from 
the  force  of  nature  and  from  external  laws,  ex- 
ercises his  dominion  over  his  son  with  great 
ease ;  and  if  he  should  chastise  and  chide  his 
son  against  his  will,  there  is  no  one  to  prevent 
him,  nor  will  the  son  himself  be  able  to  raise  a 
look  against  him.  But  in  the  case  of  the  Priest 
there  is  a  great  difficulty.  For  in  the  first  place, 
he  ought  to  be  ruling  people  willing  to  obey,  and 
thankful  to  him  for  his  rule  ;  but  it  is  not  possi- 
ble that  this  should  soon  come  to  pass.  For 
he  who  is  convicted  and  reproved,  be  he  what 
he  may,  is  sure  to  cease  from  being  thankful,  and 
to  become  an  enemy.  In  like  manner  he  will 
act  who  is  advised,  and  he  who  is  admonished 
and  he  who  is  exhorted.  If  therefore  I  should 
say,  empty  out  wealth  on  the  needy,  I  say  what 
is  offensive  and  burdensome.  If  I  say,  chastise 
thine  anger,  quench  thy  wrath,  check  thine  in- 
ordinate desire,  cut  off  a  small  portion  of  thy 
luxury,  all  is  burdensome  and  offensive.  And  if 
I  should  punish  one  who  is  slothful,  or  should 
remove  him  from  the  Church,  or  exclude  him 
from  the  public  prayers,  he  grieves,  not  because 
he  is  deprived  of  these  things,  but  because  of 
the  public  disgrace.  For  this  is  an  aggravation 
of  the  evil,  that,  being  interdicted  from  spiritual 
things,  we  grieve  not  on  account  of  our  depriva- 
tion of  these  great  blessings,  but  because  of  our 
disgrace  in  the  sight  of  others.  We  do  not 
shudder  at,  do  not  dread,  the  thing  itself. 

For  this  reason  Paul  from  one  end  to  the 
other  discourses  largely  concerning  these  per- 

1  Mi*pot|/vxiW,  Montf.  here  remarks  that  this  word  has  often 
led  to  mistranslations,  being  used  for  any  result  of  littlemindedness. 

3  [Literally,  ••  physicians'  boys,"  apparently  a  familiar  phrase  for 
physicians,  employed  also  by  Lucian.  It  perhaps  originally  denoted 
medical  students,  —  a  sense  possible  here  also,  and  in  Lucian  (On 
Writing  History,  ch.  vii.).  — J.  A.  B.| 

3  B.  and  L.  «x«i  irp&f  axnbv  qftcwf  «xo»ra«. 


sons.  And  Christ  indeed  has  subjected  them 
with  so  strict  a  necessity,  that  He  says,  "The 
Scribes  and  the  Pharisees  sit  on  Moses*  seat 
All  things  therefore  whatsoever  they  bid  you, 
these  do  and  observe  :  but  do  not  ye  after  their 
works."  (Matt,  xxiii.  2,  3.)  And  again,  when 
He  healed  the  leper,  He  said,  "Go  thy  way, 
show  thyself  to  the  priest,  and  offer  the  gift  that 
Moses  commanded  for  a  testimony  unto  them." 
(Matt  viii.  4.)  And  yet  Thou  sayest,  "Ye 
make  him  twofold  more  a  son  of  hell  than  your* 
selves."  (Matt  xxiii.  15.)  For  this  reason  I 
said,  answers  He,  "Do  not  the  things  which 
they  do."  Therefore  he  hath  shut  out  all  ex- 
cuse from  him  that  is  under  rule.  In  his  Epis- 
tle to  Timothy  also  this  Apostle  said,  "  Let  the 
elders  that  rule  well  be  counted  worthy  of 
double  honor."  (1  Tim.  v.  17.)  And  in  his 
Epistle  to  the  Hebrews  also  he  said,  "  Obey 
them  that  have  the  rule  over  you,  and  submit 
to  them."  (Heb.  xiii.  17.)  And  here  again, 
"  But  we  beseech  you,  brethren,  to  know  them 
that  labor  among  you,  and  are  over  you  in  the 
Lord."  For  since  he  had  said,  "  build  each 
other  up,"  lest  they  should  think  that  he  raised 
them  to  the  rank  of  teachers,  he  has  added, 
See,  however,  that  I  gave  leave  to  you  also  to 
edify  one  another,  for  it  is  not  possible  for  a 
teacher  to  say  everything.  "Them  that  labor 
among  you,"  he  says,  "and  are  over  you  in 
the  Lord,  and  admonish  you."  And  how,  he 
says,  is  it  not  absurd  ?  If  a  man  stand  up  for 
thee  before  a  man,  thou  doest  anything,  thou 
confessest  thyself  much  indebted ;  but  he  stands 
up  for  thee  before  God,  and  thou  dost  not  own 
the  favor.  And  how  does  he  stand  up  for  me? 
thou  sayest.  Because  he  prays  for  thee,  be- 
cause he  ministers  to  thee  the  spiritual  gift  that 
is  by  Baptism,  he  visits,  he  advises  and  admon- 
ishes thee,  he  comes  at  midnight  if  thou  callest 
for  him ;  he  is  nothing  else  than  the  constant 
subject  of  thy  mouth,  afid  he  bears  thy  injurious 
speeches.  What  necessity  had  he?  Has  he 
done  well  or  ill?  Thou  indeed  hast  a  wife,  and 
livest  luxuriously,  and  choosest  a  life  of  com- 
merce. But  from  this  the  Priest  has  hindered 
himself  by  his  occupation ;  his  life  is  no  other 
than  to  be  employed  about  the  Church.  "  And 
to  esteem  them,"  he  says,  "  exceeding  highly 
in  love  for  their  work's  sake ;  be  at  peace 
with  them." 4     Seest  thou  how  well  he  is  aware 

4  iv  avrotc,  and  so  several  MSS. :  Rec.  t.  iv  cavrotc,  "wrong 
yourselves,"  and  so  L.  [I.  Cat.]  here,  but  the  comment  hardly  bears  it. 


Homily  X.] 


HOMILIES   ON   THESSALONIANS. 


367 


that  unpleasant  feelings  arise?  He  does  not 
merely  say  "love,"  but "  very  highly,"  as  children 
love  their  fathers.  For  through  them  ye  were 
begotten  by  that,  eternal  generation :  through 
them  you  have  obtained  the  kingdom  :  through 
their  hands  all  things  are  done,  through  them 
the  gates  of  heaven  are  opened  to  you.  Let  no 
one  raise  divisions,  let  no  one  be  contentious. 
He  who  loves  Christ,  whatever  the  Priest  may 
be,  will  love  him,  because  through  him  he  has 
obtained  the  awful  Mysteries.  Tell  me,  if  wish- 
ing to  see  a  palace  resplendent  with  much  gold, 
and  radiant  with  the  brightness  of  precious  stones, 
thou  couldest  find  him  who  had  the  key,  and  he 
being  called  upon  immediately  opened  it,  and 
admitted  thee  within,  wouldest  thou  not  prefer 
him  above  all  men?  Wouldest  thou  not  love 
him  as  dearly  as  thine  eyes?  Wouldest  thou 
not  kiss  him?  This  man  hath  opened  heaven 
to  thee,  and  thou  dost  not  kiss  him,  nor  pay 
him  court.  •  If  thou  hast  a  wife,  dost  thou  not 
love  him  above  all,  who  procured  her  for  thee  ? 
So  if  thou  lovest  Christ,  if  thou  lovest  the  king- 
dom of  heaven,  acknowledge  through  whom 
thou  obtainedst  it.  On  this  account  he  says, 
"  for  their  work's  sake,  be  at  peace  with  them." 

Ver.  14.  "And  we  exhort  you,  brethren,  ad- 
monish the  disorderly,  encourage  the  faint- 
hearted, support  the  weak,  be  longsuffering 
toward  all." 

Here  he  addresses  those  who  have  rule.  Ad- 
monish, he  says,  "  the  disorderly,"  not  of  impe- 
riousness,  he  says,  nor  of  self-will  rebuke  them, 
but  with  admonition.  "  Encourage  the  faint- 
hearted, support  the  weak,  be  longsuffering 
toward  all."  For  he  who  is  rebuked  with  harsh- 
ness, despairing  of  himself,  becomes  more  bold 
in  contempt.1  On  this  account  it  is  necessary 
by  admonition  to  render  the  medicine  sweet. 
But  who  are  the  disorderly?  All  those  who  do 
what  is  contrary  to  the  will  of  God.  For  this 
order  of  the  Church  is  more  harmonious  than 
the  order  of  an  army ;  so  that  the  reviler  is  dis- 
orderly, the  drunkard  is  disorderly,  and  the  cov- 
etous, and  all  who  sin  ;  for  they  walk  not  orderly 
in  their  rank,  but  out  of  the  line,  wherefore  also 
they  are  overthrown.9  But  there  is  also  another 
kind  of  evils,  not  such  as  this  indeed,  but  itself 
also  a  vice,  littlemindedness.  For  this  is  de- 
structive equally  with  sloth.  He  who  cannot 
bear  an  insult  is  feeble-minded.  He  who  cannot 
endure  trial  is  feeble-minded.  This  is  he  who 
is  sown  upon  the  rock.  There  is  also  another 
sort,  that  of  weakness.     "  Support  the  weak,"  he 

1  [  Field  here  retains  the  common  text,  though  supported  only  by 
B  K,  the  group  found  to  be  in  its  peculiar  readings  almost  uniformly 
wrong.  This  reading  seems  required  by  the  next  sentence,  but  that 
of  the  better  MSS.  is  perhaps  possible,  viz.,  "  For  he  who  is  harsh 
»nd  rebukes,  growing  desperate,  becomes  more  bold  in  despising  and 
rebuking."  — J.  A.  B.] 

3  [Or,  by  another  reading,  "  turned  aside," perhaps  meaning  that 
they  abandon  the  army.  —  J.  A.  B.] 


says;  now  weakness  occurs  in  regard  to  faith. 
But  observe  how  he  does  not  permit  them  to  be 
despised.  And  elsewhere  also  in  his  Epistles  he 
says,  "  Them  that  are  weak  in  the  faith  receive 
ye."  (Rom.  xiv.  1.)  For  in  our  bodies  too  we 
do  not  suffer  the  weak  member  to  perish.  "  Be 
longsuffering  toward  all,"  he  says.  Even  toward 
the  disorderly?  Yes,  certainly.  For  there  is 
no  medicine  equal  to  this,  especially  for  the 
teacher,  none  so  suitable  to  those  who  are  under 
rule.  It  can  quite  shame  and  put  out  of  coun- 
tenance him  that  is  fiercer  and  more  shameless 
than  all  men. 

Ver.  15.  "See  that  none  render  unto  any  one 
evil  for  evil." 

If  we  ought  not  to  render  evil  for  evil,  much 
less  evil  for  good  ;  much  less,  when  evil  has  not 
been  previously  done,  to  render  evil.  Such  an 
one,  you  say,  is  a  bad  man,  and  has  aggrieved 
me,  and  done  me  much  injury.  Do  you  wish  to 
revenge  yourself  upon  him  ?  Do  not  retaliate. 
Leave  him  unpunished.  Well,  is  this  the  stop- 
ping-place ?     By  no  means ; 

"But  alway  follow  after  that  which  is  good, 
one  toward  another,  and  toward  all." 

This  is  the  higher  philosophy,  not  only  not  to 
requite  evil  with  evil,  but  to  render  good  for  evil. 
For  this  is  truly  revenge  that  brings  harm  to  him 
and  advantage  to  thyself,  or  rather  great  advan- 
tage even  to  him,  if  he  will.  And  that  thou  mayest 
not  think  that  this  is  said  with  respect  to  the 
faithful,  therefore  he  has  said,  "  both  one  toward 
another  and  toward  all." 

Ver.  16.  "  Rejoice  alway." 

This  is  said  with  respect  to  the  temptations 
that  bring  in  affliction.  Hear  ye,  as  many  as 
have  fallen  into  poverty,  or  into  distressing  cir- 
cumstances. For  from  these  joy  is  engendered. 
For  when  we  possess  such  a  soul  that  we  take 
revenge  on  no  one,  but  do  good  to  all,  whence, 
tell  me,  will  the  sting  of  grief  be  able  to  enter 
into  us?  For  he  who  so  rejoices  in  suffering 
evil,  as  to  requite  even  with  benefits  him  that 
has  done  him  evil,  whence  can  he  afterwards 
suffer  grief?  And  how,  you  say,  is  this  possible  ? 
It  is  possible,  if  we  will.  Then  also  he  shows 
the  way. 

Ver.  17,  18.  "Pray  without  ceasing;  In  every 
thing  giving  thanks  :  for  this  is  the  will  of  God." 

Always  to  give  thanks,  this  is  a  mark  of 
a  philosophic  soul.  Hast  thou  suffered  any 
evil  ?  But  if  thou  wilt,  it  is  no  evil.  Give  thanks 
to  God,  and  the  evil  is  changed  into  good. 
Say  thou  also  as  Job  said,  "  Blessed  be  the  name 
of  the  Lord  for  ever."3  (Job  i.  21.)  For  tell 
me,  what  such  great  thing  hast  thou  suffered? 
Has  disease  befallen  thee?  Yet  it  is  nothing 
strange.     For  our  body  is  mortal,  and  liable  to 

*  r**  For  ever"  is  not  in  the  common  Vatican  text  of  the  Septua- 
gint,  but  is  in  the  Codex  Alexandhnus. — J.  A.  B.] 


368 


WORKS   OF   ST.  CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  X. 


suffer.  Has  a  want  of  possessions  overtaken 
thee  ?  But  these  also  are  things  to  be  acquired, 
and  again  to  be  lost,  and  that  abide  here.  But 
is  it  plots  and  false  accusations  of  enemies  ?  But 
it  is  not  we  that  are  injured  by  these,  but  they 
who  are  the  authors  of  them.  "  For  the  soul," 
he  says,  "that  sinneth,  itself  shall  also  die." 
(Ezek.  xviii.  4.)  And  he  has  not.  sinned  who 
suffers  the  evil,  but  he  who  has  done  the  evil. 

Upon  him  therefore  that  is  dead  you  ought 
not  to  take  revenge,  but  to  pray  for  him  that 
you  may  deliver  him  from  death.  Do  you  not 
see  how  the  bee  dies  upon  the  sting  ?  By  that 
animal  God  instructs  us  not  to  grieve  our  neigh- 
bors. For  we  ourselves  receive  death  first.  For 
by  striking  them  perhaps  we  have  pained  them 
for  a  little  time,  but  we  ourselves  shall  not  live 
any  longer,  even  as  that  animal  will  not.  And 
yet  the  Scripture  commends  it,  saying  that  it  is 
a  worker,  whose  work  kings  and  private  men 
make  use  of  for  their  health.  (Ecclus.  xi.  3.) 
But  this  does  not  preserve  it  from  dying,  but  it 
must  needs  perish.  And  if  its  other  excellence 
does  not  deliver  it  when  it  does  injury,  much 
less  will  it  us. 

For  indeed  it  is  the  part  of  the  fiercest  beasts, 
when  no  one  has  injured  thee,  to  begin  the  in- 
jury, or  rather  not  even  of  beasts.  For  they,  if 
thou  permittest  them  to  feed  in  the  wilderness, 
and  dost  not  by  straitening  them  reduce  them 
to  necessity,  will  never  harm  thee,  nor  come 
near  thee,  nor  bite  thee,  but  will  go  their  own 
.way. 

But  you  being  a  rational  man,  honored  with 
so  much  rule  and  honor  and  glory,  do  not *  even 
imitate  the  beasts  in  your  conduct  to  your  fellow- 
creature,  but  you  injure  your  brother,  and  de- 
vour him.  And  how  will  you  be  able  to  excuse 
yourself?  Do  you  not  hear  Paul  saying,  "  Why 
not  rather  take  wrong?  Why  not  rather  be  de- 
frauded? Nay,  but  ye  yourselves  do  wrong, 
and  defraud,  and  that  your  brethren."  (1  Cor. 
vi.  7,  8.)  Do  you  see  that  suffering  wrong  con- 
sists in  doing  wrong,  but  that  to  suffer  wrong- 
fully is  to  receive  a  benefit?  For  tell  me,  if 
any  one  were  to  revile  his  rulers,  if  he  were  to 
insult  those  in  power,  whom  does  he  injure? 
Himself,  or  them?  Clearly  himself.  Then  he 
who  insults  a  ruler  insults  not  him,  but  himself 
—  and  he  that  insults  a  Christian  does  he  not 
through  him  insult  Christ?  By  no  means,  thou 
sayest.  What  sayest  thou?  He  that  casts  a 
stone  at  the  images  of  the  king  (Emperor),  at 
whom  does  he  cast  a  stone  ?  is  it  not  at  himself? 
Then  does  he  who  casts  a  stone  at  the  image 
of  an  earthly  king,  cast  a  stone  at  himself,  and 
does  not  he  who  insults  the  image  of  God  (for 
man  is  the  image  of  God)  injure  himself? 

1  [This  negative,  given  in  the  printed  editions,  though  wanting 
in  the  known  MSS.,  teems  a  necessity  to  the  sense. — J.  A.  B.] 


How  long  shall  we  love  riches?  For  I  shall 
not  cease  exclaiming  against  them :  for  they  are 
the  cause  of  everything.  How  long  do  we  not 
get  our  fill  of  this  insatiable  desire?  What  is 
the  good  of  gold  ?  I  am  astonished  at  the  thing  ! 
There  is  some  enchantment  in  the  business,  that 
gold  and  silver  should  be  so  highly  valued  among 
us.  For  our  own  souls  indeed  we  have  no  re- 
gard, but  those  lifeless  images  engross  much 
attention.  Whence  is  it  that  this  disease  has 
invaded  the  world  ?  Who  shall  be  able  to  effect 
its  destruction?  What  reason  can  cut  off  this 
evil  beast,  and  destroy  it  with  utter  destruction? 
The  desire  is  deep  sown  in  the  minds  of  men, 
even  of  those  who  seem  to  be  religious.  Let  us 
be  put  to  shame  by  the  commands  of  the  Gos- 
pel. Words  only  lie  there  in  Scripture,  they  are 
nowhere  shown  by  works. 

And  what  is  the  specious  plea  of  the  many? 
I  have  children,  one  says,  and  I  am  afraid  lest 
I  myself  be  reduced  to  the  extremity  of  hunger 
and  want,  lest  I  should  stand  in  need  of  others. 
I  am  ashamed  to  beg.  For  that  reason  there- 
fore do  you  cause  others  to  faeg?  I  cannot,  you 
say,  endure  hunger.  For  that  reason  do  you 
expose  others  to  hunger?  Do  you  know  what 
a  dreadful  thing  it  is  to  beg,  how  dreadful  to  be 
perishing  by  hunger?  Spare  also  your  breth- 
ren !  Are  you  ashamed,  tell  me,  to  be  hungry, 
and  are  you  not  ashamed  to  rob?  Are  you 
afraid  to  perish  by  hunger,  and  not  afraid  to 
destroy  others  ?  Aiid  yet  to  be  hungry  is  neither 
a  disgrace  nor  a  crime ;  but  to  cast  others  into 
such  a  state  brings  not  only  disgrace,  but  ex- 
treme punishment. 

All  these  are  pretenses,  words,  trifles.  For 
that  it  is  not  on  account  of  your  children  that 
you  act  thus,  they  testify  who  indeed  have  no 
children,  nor  will  have,  but  who  yet  toil  and 
harass  themselves,  and  are  busy  in  acquiring 
wealth,  as  much  as  if  they  had  innumerable 
children  to  leave  it  to.  It  is  not  the  care  for 
his  children  that  makes  a  man  covetous,  but  a 
disease  of  the  soul.  On  this*  account  many  even 
who  have  not  children  are  mad  about  riches, 
and  others  living  with  a  great  number  of  chil- 
dren even  despise  what  they  have.  They  will 
accuse  thee  in  that  Day.  For  if  the  necessities 
of  children  compelled  men  to  accumulate  riches, 
they  also  must  necessarily  have  the  same  long- 
ing, the  same  lust.  And  if  they  have  not,  it  is 
not  from  the  number  of  children  that  we  are 
thus  mad,  but  from  the  love  of  money.  And 
who  are  they,  you  say,  who  having  children,  yet 
despise  riches?  Many,  and  in  many  places. 
And  if  you  will  allow  me,  I  will  speak  also  of 
instances  among  the  ancients. 

Had  not  Jacob  twelve  children  ?  Did  he  not 
lead  the  life  of  a  hireling?  Was  he  not  wronged 
by  his  kinsman?  and  did  he  not  often  draip- 


Homily  X.] 


HOMILIES   ON   THESSALONIANS. 


369 


point  him?    And  did  his  number  of  children 
ever  compel  him  to  have  recourse  to  any  dis- 
honest counsel?    What  was  the  case  with  Abra- 
ham ?    With  Isaac,  had  he  not  also  many  other 
children?    What  then?    Did  he  not  possess  all 
he  had  for  the  benefit  of  strangers?     Do  you 
see,  how  he  not  only  did  not  do  wrong,  but  even 
gave  up  his  possessions,  not  only  doing  good, 
but  choosing  to  be  wronged  by  his  nephew? 
For  to  endure  being  robbed  for  the  sake  of  God 
is  a  much  greater  thing  than  to  do  good.    Why  ? 
Because  the  one  is  the  fruit  of  the  soul  and  of 
free  choice,  whence  also  it  is  easily  performed : 
but  the  other  is  injurious  treatment  and  violence. 
And   a  man  will  more  easily  throw  away  ten 
thousand  talents  voluntarily,  and  will  not  think 
that  he  has  suffered  any  harm,  than  he  will  bear 
meekly  being  robbed  of  three  pence  against  his 
will.     So  that  this  rather  is  philosophy  of  soul. 
And  this,  we  see,  happened  in  the  case  of  Abra- 
ham.    "For  Lot,"  it  is  said,  "beheld  all  the 
plain ;  and  it  was  well  watered  as  the  garden  of 
God,  and  he  chose  it."     (Gen.  xiii.  10,  11.) 
And  Abraham  said  nothing  against  it.     Seest 
thou,  that  he  not  only  did  not  wrong  him,  but 
he  was  even  wronged  by  him?     Why,  O  man, 
dost  thou  accuse  thine  own  children  ?    God  did 
not  give  us  children  for  this  end,  that  we  should 
seize  the  possessions  of  others.     Take  care,  lest 
in  saying  this  thou  provoke  God.     For  if  thou 
sayest  that  thy  children  are  the  causes  of  thy 
grasping  and  thine  avarice,  I  fear  lest  thou  be 
deprived   of  them,  as   injuring  and   ensnaring 
thee.     God  hath  given  thee  children  that  they 
may  support  thine  old  age,  that  they  may  learn 
virtue  from  thee. 

For  God  on  this  account  hath  willed  that 
mankind  should  thus  be  held  together,  provid- 
ing for  two  most  important  objects  :  on  the  one 
hand,  appointing  fathers  to  be  teachers,  and  on 
the  other,  implanting  great  love.  For  if  men 
were  merely  to  come  into  being,  no  one  would 
have  any  relation  towards  any  other.  For  if 
now,  when  there  are  the  relations  of  fathers,  and 
children,  and  grandchildren,  many  do  not  regard 
many,  much  more  would  it  then  be  the  case. 
On  this  account  God  hath  given  thee  children. 
Do  not  therefore  accuse  the  children. 

But  if  they  who  have  children  have  no  excuse, 
what  can  they  say  for  themselves,  who  having 
no  children  wear  themselves  out  about  the  ac- 
quisition of  riches  ?  But  they  have  a  saying  for 
themselves,  which  is  destitute  of  all  excuse. 
And  what  is  this  ?  That,  instead  of  children  we 
may  have,  they  say,  may  have l  our  riches  as  a 
memorial.  This  is  truly  ridiculous.  Instead  of 
children,  one  says,  my  house  becomes  the  im- 

1  [The  repetition  is  supported  by  a  good  group  of  documents, 
and  accords  with  Chrys.'s  rhetorical  manner.  The  reading  is  there- 
fore adopted  here,  though  hot  by  Field. — J.  A.  B.J 


mortal  memorial  of  my  glory.  Not  of  thy  glory, 
O  man,  will  it  be  the  memorial,  but  of  thy  covet- 
ousness.  Dost  thou  not  see  how  many  now  as 
they  pass  the  magnificent  houses  say  one  to 
another,  What  frauds,  what  robberies  such  an 
one  committed,  that  he  might  build  this  house, 
and  now  he  is  become  dust  and  ashes,  and  his 
house  has  passed  into  the  inheritance  of  others  ! 
It  is  not  of  thy  glory  then  that  thou  leavest  a  me- 
morial, but  of  thy  covetousness.  And  thy  body 
indeed  is  concealed  in  the  earth,  but  thou  dost 
not  permit  the  memorial  of  thy  covetousness  to 
be  concealed,  as  it  might  have  been 2  by  length  of 
time,  but  causest  it  to  be  turned  up  and  disin- 
terred through  thy  house.  For  as  long  as  this 
stands,  bearing  thy  name,  and  called  such  an 
one's,  certainly  the  mouths  of  all  too  must  needs 
be  opened  against  thee.  Dost  thou  see  that  it 
is  better  to  have  nothing  than  to  sustain  such 
an  accusation? 

And  these  things  indeed  here.  But  what  shall 
we  do  There?  tell  me,  having  so  much  at  our 
disposal  here,  if  we  have  imparted  to  no  one  of 
our  possessions,  or  at  least  very  little ;  how  shall 
we  put  off  our  dishonest  gains?  For  he  that 
wishes  to  put  off  covetous  gain,  does  not  give  a 
little  out  of  a  great  deal,  but  many  times  more 
than  he  has  robbed,  and  he  ceases  from  robbing. 
Hear  what  Zacchaeus  says,  "  And  for  as  many 
things  as  I  have  taken  wrongfully,  I  restore  four- 
fold." (Luke  xix.  8.)  But  thou,  taking  wrong- 
fully ten  thousand  talents,  if  thou  give  a  few 
drachmas,  thinkest  thou  hast  restored  the  whole, 
and  art  affected  as  if  thou  hadst  given  more. 
And  even  this  grudgingly.  Why?  Because 
thou  oughtest  both  to  have  restored  these,  and 
to  have  added  other  out  of  thine  own  private 
possessions.  For  as  the  thief  is  not  excused 
when  he  gives  back  only  what  he  has  stolen, 
but  often  he  has  added  even  his  life ;  and  often 
he  compounds  upon  restoring  many  times  as 
much :  so  also  should  the  covetous  man.  For 
the  covetous  man  also  is  a  thief  and  a  robber, 
far  worse  than  the  other,  by  how  much  he  is 
also  more  tyrannical.  He  indeed  by  being  con- 
cealed, and  by  making  his  attack  in  the  night, 
cuts  off  much  of  the  audacity  of  the  attempt,  as 
if  he  were  ashamed,  and  feared  to  sin.  But  the 
other  having  no  sense  of  shame,  with  open  face 
in  the  middle  of  the  market-place  steals  the 
property  of  all,  being  at  once  a  thief  and  a 
tyrant.  He  does  not  break  through  walls,  nor 
extinguish  the  lamp,  nor  open  a  chest,  nor  tear 
off  seals.  But  what  ?  He  does  things  more  in- 
solent than  these,  in  the  sight  of  those  who  are 
injured  he  carries  things  out  by  the  door,  he 
with  confidence  opens  everything,  he  compels 
them  to  expose  all  their  possessions  themselves. 

1   JVPa/tcVl)?. 


\ 


370 


WORKS  OF   ST.    CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  XI, 


Such  is  the  excess  of  his  violence.  This  man  is 
more  wicked  than  those,  inasmuch  as  he  is  more 
shameless  and  tyrannical.  For  he  that  has  suf- 
fered by  fraud  is  indeed  grieved,  but  he  has  no 
small  consolation,  that  he  who  injured  him  was 
afraid  of  him.  But  he  who  together  with  the 
injury  he  suffers  is  also  despised,  will  not  be 
able  to  endure  the  violence.  For  the  ridicule 
is  greater.  Tell  me,  if  one  committed  adultery 
with  a  woman  in  secret,  and  another  committed 
it  in  the  sight  of  her  husband,  who  grieved  him 
the  most,  and  was  most  apt  to  wound  him. 
For  he  indeed,  together  with  the  wrong  he  has 
done,  treated  him  also  with  contempt.  But  the 
former,  if  he  did  nothing  else,  showed  at  least 
that  he  feared  him  whom  he  injured.  So  also 
in  the  case  of  money.  He  that  takes  it  secretly, 
does  him  honor  in  this  respect,  that  he  does  it 
secretly ;  but  he  who  robs  publicly  and  openly, 
together  with  the  loss  adds  also  the  shame. 

Let  us  therefore,  both  poor  and  rich,  cease 
from  taking  the  property  of  others.  For  my 
present  discourse  is  not  only  to  the  rich,  but  to 
the  poor  also.     For  they  too  rob  those  who  are 


poorer  than  themselves.  And  artisans  who  are 
better  off,  and  more  powerful,  outsell  the  poorer 
and  more  distressed,  tradesmen  outsell  trades- 
men, and  so  all  who  are  engaged  in  the  market- 
place. So  that  I  wish  from  every  side  to  take 
away  injustice.  For  the  injury  consists  not  in 
the  measure  of  the  things  plundered  and  stolen, 
but  in  the  purpose  of  him  that  steals.  And  that 
these  are  more  thieves  and  defrauders,  who  do 
not  despise  little  gains,  I  know  and  remember 
that  I  have  before  told  you,  if  you  also  remem- 
ber it.  But  let  us  not  be  over  exact.  Let  them 
be  equally  bad  with  the  rich.  Let  us  instruct 
our  mind  not  to  covet  greater  things,  not  to 
aim  at  more  than  we  have.  And  in  heavenly 
things  let  our  desire  of  more  never  be  satiated, 
but  let  each  be  ever  coveting  more.  But  upon 
earth  let  every  one  be  for  what  is  needful  and 
sufficient,  and  seek  nothing  more,  that  so  he 
may  be  able  to  obtain  the  real  goods,  by  the 
grace  and  lovingkindness  of  our  Lord  Jesus 
Christ,  with  whom  to  the  Father,  together  with 
the  Holy  Spirit,  be  glory,  strength,  honor,  now 
and  always,  and  world  without  end.     Amen. 


HOMILY    XI. 

i  Thessalonians  v.  19-22. 


"  Quench  not  the  Spirit  Despise  not  prophesying*.  But 
prove  all  things;  hold  fast  that  which  is  good.  Ab- 
stain from  every  form  of  evil." 

A  thick  mist,  a  darkness  and  cloud  is  spread 
over  all  the  earth.  And,  showing  this,  the  Apos- 
tle said,  "  For  we1  were  once  darkness."  (Eph. 
v.  8.)  And  again,  "  Ye,  brethren,  are  not  in  dark- 
ness, that  that  day  should  overtake  you  as  a  thief." 
Since  therefore  there  is,  so  to  speak,  a  moonless 
night,  and  we  walk  in  that  night,  God  hath  given 
us  a  bright  lamp,  having  kindled  in  our  souls  the 
grace  of  the  Holy  Spirit.  But  some  who  have 
received  this  light  have  rendered  it  more  bright 
and  shining,  as,  for  instance,  Paul  and  Peter,  and 
all  those  Saints ;  while  others  have  even  ex- 
tinguished it,  as  the  five  virgins,  as  those  who 
have  "  made  shipwreck  concerning  the  faith,"  as 
the  fornicator  of  Corinth,  as  the  Galatians  who 
were  perverted. 

On  this  account  Paul  says,  "  Quench  not  the 
Spirit,"  that  is,  the  gift  of  grace,  for  it  is  his  cus- 


•  TOVTOV,      wis,     one 

1  [A  slip  of  memory.    N.  T.  text,  without  variation,  "  ye  were,"    spiritual. 
&c.  —  J.  A.  B.]  *  Alluding  to  "  water. 


torn  so  to  call  the  gift  of  the  Spirit.  But  this  an 
impure  life  extinguishes.  For  as  any  one,  who 
has  sprinkled  both  water  and  dust  upon  the  light 
of  our 2  lamp,  extinguishes  it,  and  if  he  does  not 
this,  but  only  takes  out  the  oil  —  so  it  is  also 
with  the  gift  of  grace.  For  if  you  have  cast  over 
it  earthly  things,  and  the  cares  of  fluctuating 
matters,8  you  have  quenched' the  Spirit  And  if 
you  have  done  none  of  these  things,  but  a  temp* 
tation  coming  from  some  other  quarter  has  ve- 
hemently assailed  it,  as  some  wind,  and  if  the 
light  be  not  strong,  and  it  has  not  much  oil,  or 
you  have  not  closed  the  opening,  or  have  not 
shut  the  door,  all  is  undone.  But  what  is  the 
opening?  As  in  the  lamp,  so  is  it  also  in  us  :  it 
is  the  eye  and  the  ear.  Suffer  not  a  violent 
blast  of  wickedness  to  fall  upon  these,  since  it 
would  extinguish  the  lamp,  but  close  them  up 
with  the  fear  of  God.  The  mouth  is  the  door. 
Shut  it,  and  fasten  it,  that  it  may  both  give  light, 
and  repel  the  attack  from  without.    For  instance, 

*  tovtov,  "  this,"  often  used  for  the  natural  as  opposed  to  the 


Homily  XI.] 


HOMILIES   ON  THESSALONIANS. 


371 


has  any  one  insulted  and  reviled  you  ?  Do  you 
shut  the  mouth  ;  for  if  you  open  it,  you  add  force 
to  the  wind.  Do  you  not  see  in  houses,  when 
two*  doors  stand  directly  opposite,  and  there  is  a 
strong  wind,  if  you  shut  one,  and  there  is  no 
opposite  draught,  the  wind  has  no  power,  but 
the  greater  part  of  its  force  is  abated  ?  So  also 
•now,  there  are  two  doors,  thy  mouth,  and  his 
who  insults  and  affronts  thee ;  if  thou  shuttest 
thy  mouth,  and  dost  not  allow  a  draught  on  the 
other  side,  thou  hast  quenched  the  whole  blast ; 
but  if  thou  openest  it,  it  will  not  be  restrained. 
Let  us  not  therefore  quench  it. 

And  the  flame  is  often  liable  to  be  extinguished 
even  when  no  temptation  assails  it.  When  the 
oil  fails,  when  we  do  not  alms,1  the  Spirit  is 
quenched.  For  it  came  to  thee  as  an  alms  from 
God.  Then  He  sees  this  fruit  not  existing  in 
thee,  and  he  abides  not  with  an  unmerciful  soul. 
But  the  Spirit  being  quenched,  ye  know  what 
follows,  as  many  of  you  as  have  walked  on  a  road 
in  a  moonless  night.  And  if  it  is  difficult  to 
walk  by  night  in  a  road  from  land  to  land,  how 
is  it  safe  in  the  road  that  leads  from  earth  to 
heaven?  Know  ye  not  how  many  demons  there 
are  in  the  intervening  space,  how  many  wild 
beasts,  how  many  spirits  of  wickedness?  If 
indeed  we  have  that  light,  they  will  be  able  to 
do  us  no  hurt ;  but  if  we  extinguish  it,  they  soon 
take  us  captive,  they  soon  rob  us  of  everything. 
Since  even  robbers  first  extinguish  the  lamp,  and 
so  plunder  us.  For  they  indeed  see  in  this  dark- 
ness, since  they  do  the  works  of  darkness :  but 
we  are  unaccustomed  to  that  light.8  Let  us  not 
then  extinguish  it.  All  evil  doing  extinguishes 
that  light,  whether  reviling,  or  insolence,  or  what- 
ever you  can  mention.  For  as  in  the  case  of 
fire,  everything  that  is  foreign  to  its  nature  is 
destructive  of  it,  but  that  kindles  it  which  is  con- 
genial to  it ;  whatever  is  dry,  whatever  is  warm, 
whatever  is  fiery,  kindles  the  flame  of  the  Spirit. 
Let  us  not  therefore  overlay  it  with  anything  cold 
or  damp ;  for  these  things  are  destructive  of  it. 

But  there  is  also  another  explanation.  There 
were  among  them  many  indeed  who  prophesied 
truly,  but  some  prophesied  falsely.  This  also  he 
says  in  the  Epistle  to  the  Corinthians,  that  on 
this  account  He  gave  "  the  discernings  of  spirits." 
(1  Cor.  xii.  10.)  For  the  devil,  of  his  vile  craft, 
wished  through  this  gift  of  grace  to  subvert  every- 
thing pertaining  to  the  Church.  For  since  both 
the  demon  and  the  Spirit  prophesied  concern- 
ing the  future,  the  one  indeed  uttering  falsehood, 
and  the  other  truth,  and  it  was  not  possible  from 
any  quarter  to  receive  a  proof  of  one  or  the 
other,  but  each  spoke  without  being  called  to 
account,  as  Jeremiah  and  Ezekiel  had  done,  but 
when  the  time  came  they  were  convicted,  He 

1  Of  this  play  upon  the  word,  see  Horn.  iv.  on  Philip.,  near  the 
end. 

*  One  MS.,  "  that  space/'  i-e.  between  earth  and  heaven. 


gave  also  the  "discernings  of  spirits."8  Since 
therefore  then  also  among  the  Thessalonians 
many  were  prophesying,  glancing  at  whom  he 
says,  "  Neither  by  word,  nor  by  epistle,  as  from 
us,  as  that  the  day  of  the  Lord  is  now  present " 
(2  Thess.  ii.  2),  he  says  this  here.  That  is,  do 
not,  because  there  are  false  prophets  among  you, 
on  their  account  prohibit  also  these,  and  turn 
away  from  them ;  "  quench  "  them  "  not,"  that 
is,  "  despise  not  prophesyings." 

Seest  thou  that  this  is  what  he  means  by, 
"Prove  all  things"?  Because  he  had  said, 
"  Despise  not  prophesyings,"  lest  they  should, 
think  that  he  opened  the  pulpit  to  all,  he  says, 
"  Prove  all  things,"  that  is,  such  as  are  really 
prophecies ;  "  and  hold  fast  that  which  is  good. 
Abstain  from  every  form  of  evil "  ;  not  from  this 
or  that,  but  from  all;  that  you  may  by  proof 
distinguish  both  the  true  things  and  the  false, 
and  abstain  from  the  latter,  and  hold  fast  the 
former.  For  thus  both  the  hatred  of  the  one 
will  be  vehement  and  the  love  of  the  other 
arises,  when  we  do  all  things  not  carelessly, 
nor  without  examination,  but  with  careful  in- 
vestigation. 

Ver.  23.  "And  the  God  of  peace  Himself 
sanctify  you  wholly;  and  may  your  spirit  and 
soul  and  body  be  preserved  entire,  without 
blame  at  the  coming  of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ." 

Observe  the  affection  of  the  Teacher.  After 
the  admonition  he  adds  a  prayer ;  not  only  that, 
but  even  introduces  it  in  his  letter.4  For  we 
need  both  counsel  and  prayer.  For  this  reason 
we  also  first  giving  you  counsel,  then  offer  prayers 
for  you.  And  this  the  Initiated  know.  But  Paul 
indeed  did  this  with  good  reason,  having  great 
confidence  towards  God,  whereas  we  are  con- 
founded with  shame,  and  have  no  freedom  of 
speech.  But  because  we  were  appointed  to  this 
we  do  it,  being  unworthy  even  to  stand  in  His 
presence,  and  to  hold  the  place  of  the  lowest 
disciples.  But  because  grace  works  even  through 
the  unworthy,  not  for  our  own  sakes  but  for  theirs 
who  are  about  to  be  benefited,  we  contribute  our 
parts. 

"  Sanctify  you  wholly,"  he  says,  and  may  "  your 
spirit  and  soul  and  body  be  preserved  entire, 
without  blame  at  the  coming  of  our  Lord  Jesus 
Christ."  What  does  he  here  call  the  spirit? 
The  gift  of.  grace.5      For  if  we  depart  hence 

'  [When  the  time  of  fulfillment  or  the  contrary  came,  the  prophets 
were  convicted,  and  it  was  shown  which  were  from  the  devil.  But 
the  power  of  discerning  between  good  and  evil  spirits  in  thtiir  pre- 
dictions would  make  it  unnecessary  to  wait  for  the  time  of  fulfillment. 
—  J.  A.  B.J 

*  The  same  omits  "  but  even,"  &c,  and  proceeds,  For  the  Teacher 
needs.  &c. 

8  [See  his  remarks  above,  on  ver.  zo.  To  understand  so  here  is 
a  groundless  fancy.  The  Scripture  writers  sometimes  speak  of  soul 
and  body,  sometimes  of  spirit  and  body,  and  occasionally  of  spirit 
and  soul  and  body*  Some  able  writers  (as  Ellicott  here)  understand 
this  form  of  expression  as  teaching  an  essential  psychological  dis- 
tinction between  spirit  and  soul ;  but  it  is  probable  that  we  have  only 
the  Pauline  accumulation  of  terms  to  make  a  complete  and  emphatic 
statement. — J.  A.  B.] 


372 


WORKS   OF   ST.    CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  XI. 


having  our  lamps  bright,  we  shall  enter  into 
the  bridechamber.  But  if  they  are  quenched, 
it  will  not  be  so.  For  this  reason  he  says 
"your  spirit."  For  if  that  remains  pure,  the 
other  remains  also.  "And  soul  and  body,"  he 
says.  For  neither  the  one  nor  the  other  then 
admits  anything  evil. 

Ver.  24.  "Faithful  is  He  that  calleth  you, 
who  will  also  do  it." 

Observe  his  humility.  For,  because  he  had 
prayed,  Think  not,  he  says,  that  this  happens 
from  my  prayers,  but  from  the  purpose,  with 
which  He  called  you.  For  if  He  called  you  to 
salvation,  and  He  is  true,  He  will  certainly  save 
you,  in  that  He  wills  it. 

Ver.  25.  "  Brethren,  pray  for  us  also."1 

Strange  !  what  humility  is  here  !  But  he  in- 
deed said  this  for  the  sake  of  humility,  but  we,2 
not  from  humility,  but  for  the  sake  of  great 
benefit,  and  wishing  to  gain  some  great  profit 
from  you,  say,  "  Pray  for  us  also."  For  although 
you  do  not  receive  any  great  or  wonderful  bene- 
fit from  us,  do  it  nevertheless  for  the  sake  of  the 
honor  and  the  title  itself.  Some  one  has  had 
children,  and  even  if  they  had  not  been  bene- 
fited by  him,  nevertheless,  because  he  has  been 
their  father,  he  perhaps  sets  this  before  them, 
saying,  "  For  one  day  I  have  not  been  called 
father  by  thee."  8  On  this  account  we  too  say, 
"  Pray  for  us  also."  I  am  not  merely  saying 
this,  but  really  desiring  your  prayers.  For  if  I 
have  become  responsible  for  this  presidency 
over  you  all,  and  shall  have  to  render  an  account, 
much  more  ought  I  to  have  the  benefit  of  your 
prayers.  On  your  account  my  responsibilities 
are  greater,  therefore  the  help  also  from  you 
should  be  greater. 

Ver.  26.  "  Salute  all  the  brethren  with  a  holy 
kiss." 

Oh  !  what  fervor  !  Oh  !  what  mad  passion  is 
here  !  Because  being  absent  he  could  not  greet 
them  with  the  kiss,  he  greets  them  through 
others,  as  when  we  say,  Kiss  him  for  me.  So 
also  do  ye  yourselves  retain  the  fire  of  love. 
For  it  does  not  admit  of  distances,  but  even 
through  long  intervening  ways  it  extends  itself, 
and  is  everywhere  present. 

Ver.  27.  "I  adjure  you  by  the  Lord  that  this 
Epistle  be  read  unto  all  the  holy4  brethren." 

And  this  command  is  rather  from  love,  and 
not  so  much  in  the  way  of  teaching ;  that  with 
them  also,  he  means,  I  may  be  conversing. 


1  [Some  leadinp  documents  for  N.  T.  give  this  "  also."  See 
margin  Rev.  Ver.  —  J.  A.  B.] 

3  [i.e.  Chrys.  himself.  Below,  with  heightened  earnestness,  he 
says  "  I."  By  the  "honor"  and  the  "title"  he  means  those  per- 
taining to  himself.  — J.  A.  B.] 

3  Downes  would  read,  "for  one  day,  however,  I  was  called  your 
father."  There  is  most  likely  some  unknown  allusion  in  the 
words. 

*  [Textus  Rec.  of  N.  T.  has  "holy";  Rev.  Ver.  properly 
omits  it. — J.  A.  B.] 


Ver.  28.  "The  grace  of  our  Lord  Jesus 
Christ  be  with  you.     Amen."  5 

And  he  does  not  merely  command,  but  adjures 
them,  and  this  from  a  fervent  mind,  that  even 
though  they  should  despise  him,  for  the  sake  of 
the  adjuration  they  may  practice  what  is  com- 
manded. For  men  had  a  great  dread  of  that 
appeal,  but  now  that  too  is  trampled  under  foot. 
And  often  when  a  slave  is  scourged,  and  adjures 
by  God  and  His  Christ,  and  says,  "  So  may  you 
die  a  Christian,"  yet  no  one  gives  heed,  no  one 
regards  it ;  but  if  he  adjures  him  by  his  own  son, 
immediately,  though  unwilling,  and  grinding  his 
teeth,  he  gives  up  his  anger.  Again,  another 
being  dragged  and  led  away  through  the  middle 
of  the  market-place,6  in  the  presence  both  of 
Jews  and  Greeks,  adjures  him  that  leads  him 
away  with  the  most  fearful  adjurations,  and  no 
one  regards  it.  What  will  not  the  Greeks  say, 
when  one  of  the  faithful  adjures  a  faithful  man 
and  a  Christian,  and  no  regard  is  paid  to  it,  but 
we  even  despise  him. 

Will  you  allow  me  to  tell  you  a  certain  story 
which  I  myself  have  heard?  For  I  do  not  say 
it  of  my  own  invention,  but  having  heard  it  from 
a  person  worthy  of  credit.  There  was  a  certain 
maid-servant  united  to  a  wicked  man,  a  vile 
run-away  slave ;  she,  when  her  husband  having 
committed  many  faults  was  about  to  be  sold  by 
her  mistress ;  (for  the  offenses  were  too  great 
for  pardon,  and  the  woman  was  a  widow,  and 
was  not  able  to  punish  him  who  was  the  plague 
of  her  house,  and  therefore  resolved  to  sell  him ; 
then  considering  that  it  was  an  unholy  thing  to 
separate  the  husband  from  the  wife,  the  mistress, 
although  the  girl  was  useful,  to  avoid  separating 
her  from  him,  made  up  her  mind  to  sell  her  also 
with  him ;)  then  the  girl  seeing  herself  in  these 
straits,  came  to  a  venerable  person  who  was  in- 
timate with  her  mistress,  and  who  also  told  it  to 
me,  and  clasping  her  knees,  and  with  a  thousand 
lamentations,  besought  her  to  entreat  her  mis- 
tress in  her  behalf;  and  having  wasted  many 
words,  at  last  she  added  this  also,  as  thereby 
especially  to  persuade  her,  laying  on  her  a  most 
awful  adjuration,  and  the  adjuration  was  this, 
"  So  mayest  thou  see  Christ  at  the  Day  of  Judg- 
ment, as  thou  neglectest  not  my  petition."  And 
having  so  said,  she  departed.  And  she  who  had 
been  entreated,  upon  the  intrusion  of  some 
worldly  care,  such  as  happens  in  families,  forgot 
the  matter.  Then  suddenly  late  in  the  afternoon, 
the  most  awful  adjuration  came  into  her  mind, 
and  she  felt  great  compunction,  and  she  went 
and  with  great  earnestness  asked,  and  obtained 
her  request.  And  that  very  night  she  suddenly 
saw  the  heavens  opened,  and  Christ  Himself. 

s  [Ver.  28  seems  inserted  out  of  place.  What  follows  refers  to 
"  adjure,"  in  ver.  27. — J.  A.  B.] 

*  i.e.  for  debt,  to  which  he  probably  refers  also  in  speaking  against 
covetou&ness,  Horn,  x.,  near  the  end. 


Homily  XI.] 


HOMILIES   ON   THESSALONIANS. 


373 


But  she  saw  Him,  as  far  as  it  was  possible  for  a 
woman  to  see  Him.  Because  she  at  all  regarded 
the  adjuration,  because  she  was  afraid,  she  was 
thought  worthy  of  this  vision. 

And  these  things  I  have  said,  that  we  may  not 
despise  adjurations,  especially  when  any  entreat 
us  for  things  that  are  good,  as  for  alms,  and  for 
works  of  mercy.  But  now  poor  men,  who  have 
lost  their  feet,  sit  and  see  thee  hastening  by,  and 
when  they  cannot  follow  thee  with  their  feet,  they 
expect  to  detain  thee,  as  with  a  kind  of  hook, 
by  the  fear  of  an  adjuration,  and  stretching  out 
their  hands,  they  adjure  thee  to  give  them  only 
one  or  two  pennies.  But  thou  hastenest  by, 
though  adjured  by  thy  Lord.  And  if  he  adjure 
thee  by  the  eyes  either  of  thy  husband,  who  is 
gone  abroad,  or  of  thy  son,  or  thy  daughter,  im- 
mediately thou  yieldest,  thy  mind  is  transported, 
thou  art  warmed ;  but  if  he  adjure  thee  by  thy 
Lord,  thou  hastenest  by.  And  I  have  known 
many  women  who,  hearing  indeed  the  name  of 
Christ,  have  hastened  by ;  but  being  commended 
for  their  beauty  by  those  who  came  to  them, 
have  been  melted  and  softened,  and  have 
stretched  out  their  hand. 

Yea  thus  they  have  reduced  suffering  and 
wretched  beggars  to  this,  even  to  deal  in  mak- 
ing sport !  For  when  they  do  not  touch  their 
souls  by  uttering  vehement  and  bitter  words, 
they  have  recourse  to  this  way  by  which  they 
delight  them  exceedingly.  And  our  great  wick- 
edness compels  him  that  is  in  calamity  or  is 
straitened  by  hunger,  to  utter  encomiums  upon 
the  beauty  of  those  who  pity  him.  And  I  wish 
this  were  all.  But  there  is  even  another  form 
worse  than  this.  It  compels  the  poor  to  be 
jugglers,  and  buffoons,  and  filthy  jesters.  For 
when  he  fastens  on  his  fingers  cups  and  bowls 
and  cans,  and  plays  on  them  as  cymbals,  and 
having  a  pipe,  whistles  on  it  those  base  and 
amorous  melodies,  and  sings  them  at  the  top  of 
his  voice ;  and  then  many  stand  round,  and 
some  give  him  a  piece  of  bread,  some  a  penny, 
and  others  something  else,  and  they  detain  him 
long,  and  both  men  and  women  are  delighted ; 
what  is  more  grievous  than  this  ?  Are  not  these 
things  deserving  of  much  groaning?  They  are 
indeed  trifling,  and  are  considered  trifling,  but 
they  engender  great  sins  in  our  character.  For 
when  any  obscene  and  sweet  melody  is  uttered, 
it  softens  the  mind,  and  corrupts  the  very  soul 
itself.  And  the  poor  man  indeed  who  calls  upon 
God,  and  invokes  a  thousand  blessings  upon  us, 
is  not  vouchsafed  a  word  from  you  ;  but  he  who 
instead  of  these  things  introduces  sportive  sal- 
lies, is  admired. 

And  what  has  now  come  into  my  mind  to  say 
to  you,  that  I  will  utter.  And  what  is  this? 
When  you  are  involved  in  poverty  and  sickness, 
if  from  no  other  quarter,  at  least  from  those  who 


beg,  who  wander  through  the  narrow  streets, 
learn  to  give  thanks  to  the  Lord.  For  they, 
spending  their  whole  life  in  begging,  do  not 
blaspheme,  are  not  angry,  nor  impatient,  but 
make  the  whole  narrative  of  their  beggary  in 
thanksgiving,  magnifying  God,  and  calling  Him 
merciful.  He  indeed  that  is  perishing  with  hun- 
ger, calls  Him  merciful,  but  you  who  are  living 
in  plenty,  if  you  cannot  get  the  possessions  of 
all,  call  Him  cruel.  How  much  better  is  he  ! 
how  will  he  condemn  us  !  God  has  sent  the 
poor  through  the  world,  as  common  teachers  in 
our  calamities,  and  consolation  under  them. 
Hast  thou  suffered  anything  contrary  to  thy 
wishes?  yet  nothing  like  what  that  poor  man 
suffers.  Thou  hast  lost  an  eye,  but  he  both  his. 
Thou  hast  long  labored  under  disease,  but  he 
has  one  that  is  incurable.  Thou  hast  lost  thy 
children,  but  he  even  the  health  of  his  own 
body.  Thou  hast  suffered  a  great  loss,  but  thou 
art  not  yet  reduced  to  supplicate  from  others. 
Give  thanks  to  God.  Thou  seest  them  in  the 
furnace  of  poverty,  and  begging  indeed  from  all, 
but  receiving  from  few.  When  thou  art  weary 
of  praying,  and  dost  not  receive,  consider  how 
often  thou  hast  heard  a  poor  man  calling  upon 
thee,  and  hast  not  listened  to  him,  and  he  has 
not  been  angry  nor  insulted  thee.  And  yet  thou 
indeed  actest  thus  from  cruelty ;  but  God  from 
mercy  even  declines  to  hear.  If  therefore  thou, 
thyself  from  cruelty  not  hearing  thy  fellow-ser- 
vant, expectest  not  to  be  found  fault  with,  dost 
thou  find  fault  with  the  Lord,  who  out  of  mercy 
does  not  hear  His  servant?  Seest  thou  how 
great  the  inequality,  how  great  the  injustice  ? 

Let  us  consider  these  things  constantly,  those 
who  are  below  us,  those  who  are  under  greater 
calamities,  and  so  we  shall  be  able  to  be  thank- 
ful to  God.  Life  abounds  with  many  such 
instances.  And  he  who  is  sober,  and  willing 
to  attend,  gains  no  small  instruction  from  the 
houses  of  prayer.  For  on  this  account  the  poor 
sit  before  the  vestibule  both  in  the  churches  and 
in  the  chapels  of  the  Martyrs,1  that  we  may 
receive  great  benefit  from  the  spectacle  of  these 
things.  For  consider,  that  when  we  enter  into 
earthly  palaces,  we  can  see  nothing  of  this  kind ; 
but  men  that  are  dignified  and  famous,  and 
wealthy  and  intelligent,  are  everywhere  hasten- 
ing to  and  fro.  But  into  the  real  palaces,  I 
mean  the  Church,  and  the  oratories2  of  the 
Martyrs,  enter  the  demoniacs,  the  maimed,  the 
poor,  the  aged,  the  blind,  and  those  whose  limbs 
are  distorted.  And  wherefore?  That  thou 
mayest  be  instructed  by  the  spectacle  of  these 
things ;  in  the  first  place  that  if  thou  hast  entered 

1  napTvpiois.  Of  these,  see  Bingham,  viii.  8,  who  quotes  Euse- 
bius  Vit.  Const,  iii.  48,  saying  that  Constantine  built  several  in  Con- 
stantinople.   See  also  on  Stat.  Horn.  i. 

1  [i.e.  houses  of  prayer,  as  just  above.  This  was  an  adaptation 
of  a  Jewish  custom,  as  in  Acts  xvi.  13  (Rev.  Ver.)  and  z6.  — -J.  A.  B.] 


374 


WORKS   OF   ST.    CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  XL 


drawing  after  thee  any  pride  from  without,  hav- 
ing looked  upon  these,  and  laid  aside  thy  arro- 
gance, and  become  contrite  in  heart,  so  thou 
mayest  go  in,  and  hear  the  things  that  are  said ; 
for  it  is  not  possible  that  he  who  prays  with  an 
arrogant  mind  should  be  heard.  That  when 
thou  seest  an  aged  man,  thou  mayest  not  be 
elated  at  thy  youth,  for  these  old  men  were  once 
young.  That  when  thou  boastest  highly  of  thy 
warfare,  or  thy  kingly  power,  thou  mayest  con- 
sider that  from  these  are  sprung  those  who  are  be- 
come illustrious  in  kings'  courts.  That,  when 
thou  presumest  upon  thy  bodily  health,  taking 
heed  to  these,  thou  mayest  abate  thy  lofty  spirit. 
For  the  healthy  man  who  continually  enters  here, 
will  not  be  highminded  on  account  of  his  bodily 
health ;  and  the  sick  man  will  receive  no  slight 
consolation. 

But  they  do  not  sit  here  only  on  this  account, 
but  that  they  may  also  make  thee  compassionate, 
and  thou  mayest  be  inclined  to  pity ;  that  thou 
mayest  admire  the  lovingkindness  of  God ;  for 
if  God  is  not  ashamed  of  them,  but  has  set  them 
in  His  vestibules,  much  less  be  thou  ashamed ; 
that  thou  mayest  not  be  highminded  on  account 
of  palaces  upon  earth.  Be  not  ashamed,  when 
called  upon  by  a  poor  man ;  and  if  he  should 
draw  near,  if  he  should  catch  thy  knees,  shake 
him  not  off.  For  these  are  certain  admirable 
dogs  of  the  Royal  Courts.  For  I  do  not  call 
them  dogs  as  dishonoring  them  —  far  be  it — but 
even  highly  commending  them.  They  guard 
the  King's  court.  Therefore  feed  them.  For 
the  honor  passes  on  to  the  King.  There  all  is 
pride, — I  speak  of  the  palaces  on  earth — here 
all  is  humility.  You  learn  especially  from  the 
very  vestibules  that  human  beings  are  nothing. 
From  the  very  persons  who  sit  before  them,  you 
are  taught  that  God  delights  not  in  riches.  For 
their  sitting  and  assembling  there  is  all  but  an 
admonition,  sending  forth  a  clear  voice  regard- 
ing the  nature  of  all  men,  and  saying  that  human 
things  are  nothing,  that  they  are  shadow  and 
smoke.  If  riches  were  a  good,  God  would  not 
have  seated  the  poor  before  His  own  vestibule. 
And  if  He  admits  rich  people  also,  wonder  not, 
for  He  admits  them  not  on  this  account,  that 
they  may  continue  rich,  but  that  they  may  be 
delivered  from  their  encumbrance.  For  hear 
what  Christ  says  to  them,  "  Ye  cannot  serve  God 
and  Mammon  "  (Matt.  vi.  24.)  ;  and  again,  "  It  is 
hard  for  a  rich  man  to  enter  into  the  kingdom 
of  heaven"  ;  and  again,  "It  is  easier  for  a  camel 
to  go  through  a  needle's  eye,  than  for  a  rich  man 
to  enter  into  the  kingdom  of  heaven."  (Matt. 
xix.  23,  24.)  On  this  account  He  receives  the 
rich,  that  they  may  hear  these  words,  that  they 
may  long  for  the  eternal  riches,  that  they  may 
covet  things  in  heaven.  And  why  dost  thou 
wonder  that  He  does  not  disdain  to  seat  such 


at  His  vestibules?  for  He  does  not  disdain  to 
call  them  to  His  spiritual  Table,  and  make  them 
partakers  of  that  Feast.  But  the  maimed  and 
the  lame,  the  old  man  that  is  clothed  in  rags  and 
filth,  and  has  catarrh,  comes  to  partake  of  that 
Table  with  the  young  and  the  beautiful,  and 
with  him  even  who  is  clothed  in  purple,  and 
whose  head  is  encircled  with  a  diadem — and  is 
thought  worthy  of  the  spiritual  Feast,  and  both 
enjoy  the  same  benefits,  and  there  is  no  differ- 
ence. 

Does  then  Christ  not  disdain  to  call  them  to 
His  Table  with  the  king  (Emperor)  —  for  both 
are  called  together  —  and  thou  perhaps  dis- 
dainest  even  to  be  seen  giving  to  the  poor,  or 
even  conversing  with  them?  Fie  upon  thy 
haughtiness  and  pride  !  See  that  we  suffer  not 
the  same  with  the  rich  man  formerly.  He  dis- 
dained even  to  look  upon  Lazarus,  and  did  not 
allow  him  to  share  his  roof  or  shelter,  but  he 
was  without,  cast  away  at  his  gate,  nor  was  he 
even  vouchsafed  a  word  from  him.  But  see 
how,  when  fallen  into  straits,  and  in  want  of 
his  help,  he  failed  to  obtain  it.  For  if  we  are 
ashamed  of  those  of  whom  Christ  is  not  ashamed, 
we  are  ashamed  of  Christ,  being  ashamed  of  His 
friends.  Let  thy  table  be  filled  with  the  maimed 
and  the  lame.  Through  them  Christ  comes, 
not  through  the  rich.  Perhaps  thou  laughest  at 
hearing  this;  therefore,  that  thou  mayest  not 
think  it  is  my  word,  hear  Christ  Himself  speak- 
ing, that  thou  mayest  not  laugh,  but  shudder  : 
"  When  thou  makest  a  dinner  or  a  supper,  call 
not  thy  friends  nor  thy  brethren,  nor  thy  kins- 
men, nor  rich  neighbors;  lest  haply  they  also 
bid  thee  again,  and  a  recompense  be  made  thee. 
But  when  thou  makest  a  feast,  bid  the  poor,  the 
maimed,  the  halt,  the  blind ;  and  thou  shalt  be 
blessed ;  because  they  have  not  wherewith  to 
recompense  thee  :  for  thou  shalt  be  recompensed 
in  the  Resurrection  of  the  just."  (Luke  xiv. 
12-14.)  And  greater  is  thy  glory  even  here,  if 
thou  lovest  that.  For  from  the  former  class  of 
guests  arise  envy,  and  malice,  and  slanders,  and 
revilings,  and  much  fear  lest  anything  unbe- 
coming should  occur.  And  thou  standest  like 
a  servant  before  his  master,  if  those  who  are 
invited  are  thy  superiors,  fearing  their  criticism 
and  their  lips.  But  in  the  case  of  these  there 
is  nothing  of  this  sort,  but  whatever  you  bring 
them,  they  receive  all  with  pleasure ;  and  ample 
is  the  applause,  brighter  the  glory,  higher  the 
admiration.  All  they  that  hear  do  not  so  much 
applaud  the  former,  as  the  latter.  But  if  thou 
disbelievest,  thou  who  art  rich,  make  the  trial, 
thou  who  invitest  generals  and  governors.  Invite 
the  poor,  and  fill  thy  table  from  them,  and  see 
if  thou  art  not  applauded  by  all,  if  thou  art  not 
loved  by  all,  if  all  do  not  hold  thee  as  a  father. 
For  of  those  feasts  there  is  no  advantage,  but 


Homily  XL] 


HOMILIES  ON  THESSALONIANS. 


375 


for  these  heaven  is  in  store,  and  the  good  things 
of  heaven — of  which  may  we  all  be  partakers, 
by  the  grace  and  lovingkindness  of  our  Lord 


Jesus  Christ,  with  whom  to  the  Father,  together 
with  the  Holy  Spirit,  be  glory,  power,  honor, 
now  and  ever,  and  world  without  end.    Amen. 


HOMILIES  OF  ST.  JOHN  CHRYSOSTOM, 

ARCHBISHOP  OF   CONSTANTINOPLE, 


ON    THE 


SECOND   EPISTLE   OF   ST.    PAUL   THE   APOSTLE 


TO  THE 


THESSALONIANS. 


HOMILY    I. 


ARGUMENT. 

Having  said  in  his  former  Epistle  that  "  we 
pray  night  and  day  to  see  you,  and  that  we 
could  not  forbear,  but  were  left  in  Athens  alone," 
and  that  "I  sent  Timothy"  (from  i  Thess.  iii. 
i,  2,  i o),  by  all  these  expressions  he  shows  the 
desire  which  he  had  to  coma  amongst  them. 
When  therefore  he  had  perhaps  not  had  time  to 
go,  and  to  perfect  what  was  lacking  in  their 
faith,  on  this  account  he  adds  a  second  Epistle, 
filling  up  by  his  writings  what  was  wanting  of 
his  presence.  For  that  he  did  not  depart,  we 
may  conjecture  from  hence  :  for  he  says  in  this 
Epistle,  "  We  beseech  you  by  the  coming  of  our 
Lord  Jesus  Christ."  (2  Thess.  ii.  1.)  For  in  his 
first  Epistle  he  said,  "  Concerning  the  times  and 
the  seasons  ye-  have  no  need  that  aught  be  writ- 
ten unto  you.''  (1  Thess.  v.  1.)  So  that  if  he 
had  gone,  there  would  have  been  no  need  of 
his  writing.  But  since  the  question  was  de- 
ferred, on  this  account  he  adds  this  Epistle, 
as  in  his  Epistle  to  Timothy  he  says,  "They 
subvert  the  faith  of  some,  saying  that  the  Res- 
urrection is  already  past"  (from  2  Tim.  ii. 
18)  ;  that  the  faithful  henceforth  hoping  for 
nothing  great  or  splendid,  might  faint  under 
their  sufferings. 

For  since  that  hope  supported  them,  and  did 
not  allow  them  to  yield  to  the  present  evils,  the 
devil  wishing  to  cut  it  off,  as  being  a  kind  of 


anchor,  when  he  was  not  able  to  persuade  them 
that  the  things  to  come  were  false,  went  to  work 
another  way,  and  having  suborned  certain  pes- 
tilential men,  endeavored  to  deceive  those  who 
believed  into  a  persuasion  that  those  great  and 
splendid  things  had  received  their  fulfillment. 
Accordingly  these  men  then  said  that  the  Res- 
urrection was  already  past.  But  now  they  said 
that  the  Judgment  and  the  coming  of  Christ 
were  at  hand,  that  they  might  involve  even 
Christ  in  a  falsehood,  and  having  pointed  out  to 
them  that  there  is  hereafter  no  retribution,  nor 
judgment-seat,  nor  punishment  and  vengeance 
for  those  who  had  done  them  evil,  they  might 
both  render  these  more  bold,  and  those  more 
dispirited.  And,  what  was  worse  than  all,  some 
attempted  merely  to  report  words  as  if  they  were 
said  by  Paul,  but  others  even  to  forge  Epistles 
as  written  by  him.  On  this  account,  cutting  off 
all  access  for  them,  he  says,  "Be  not  quickly 
shaken  from  your  mind,  nor  yet  be  troubled, 
either  by  spirit,  or  by  word,  or  by  epistle  as  from 
us."  (2  Thess.  ii.  2.)  "Neither  by  spirit "  he  says, 
glancing  at  the  false  prophets.  Whence  then 
shall  we  know  them,  he  says?  For  this  very 
reason,  he  added,  "  The  salutation  of  me  Paul 
with  mine  own  hand,  which  is  the  token  in 
every  Epistle :  so  I  write.  The  grace  of  our 
Lord  Jesus  Christ  be  with  you  all."  (2  Thess. 
iii.  17,  18.)  He  does  not  here  mean,  that  this 
is  the  token,  —  for  it  is  probable  that  others  also 


37« 


WORKS   OF   ST.    CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  I. 


imitittcci  this,  —  but  that  I  write  the  salutation 
with  nunc  own  hand,  as  is  the  custom  also  now 
umoiiK  us.  For  by  the  subscription  the  writings 
of  those  who  send  letters  are  made  known.  But 
he  comforts  them,  as  being  excessively  pinched1 
by  their  troubles ;  both  praising  them  from  their 
present  state,  and  encouraging  them  from  a 
prospect  of  the  futurity,  and  from  the  punish- 
ment, and  from  the  recompense  of  good  things 
|>repared  for  them ;  and  he  more  clearly  en- 
arges  upon  the  topic,  not  indeed  revealing  the 
time  itself,  but  showing  the  sign  of  the  time, 
namely.  Antichrist.  For  a  weak  soul  is  then 
most  fully  assured,  not  when  it  merely  hears,  but 
when  it  learns  something  more  particular. 

Anil  Christ  too  bestowed  great  care  upon  this 
point,  and  being  seated  on  the  Mount,  He  with 
great  juirticularity  discoursed  to  His  disciples 
upon  the  Consummation.  And  wherefore  ?  that 
there  might  be  no  room  for  those  who  introduce 
Antichrists  and  false  Christs.  And  He  Himself 
atoo  gives  many  signs,  one  indeed,  and  that  the 
most  important,  saying,  when  •*  the  Gospel  shall 
be  preached  to  all  nations'*  (from  Matt.  xxiv.  14), 
ami  another  also*  that  thev  should  not  be  de- 
ceived  with  respect  to  His  coming.  "As  the 
lightning"  (ver*  a;^%  He  says*  shall  He  come; 
not  concealed  in  any  corner,  but  shining  every- 
where. It  requires  no  one  to  point  it  out,  so 
*l*lciHlid  will  it  be.  even  as  the  lightning  needs 
no  oik  to  r>oint  it  out.  Ami  He  has  spoken  in 
^  certain  place  also  concerning  Antichrist,  when 
\ le  said* %*  I  am  come  in  My  Fathers  name,  and 
ye  receive  Me  not :  if  another  shall  come  in  His 
own  name*  Him  ye  will  receive."  (John  v.  45.) 
Ami  He  said  that  those  unspeakable  calamities 
one  after  another  were  a  sign  of  iu  and  that 
Kitas  must  come. 

Hie  llK^sakuuans  indeed  were  then  per- 
plexexL  but  their  perplexity  his  been  profita- 
ble to  us.  For  no*  to  then*  only,  but  to  us 
a;so  are  these  things  useruL  that  we  may  be 
\Uv.\erevl  from  chiVhsh  rabks  and  trom  oil 
%otwe&fc*  Kvier.es.  Ami  iuve  voc  not  often 
hearvL  when  >oc  were  chudresu  persocs  talking 
rxvh  exea  a'evet  the  ruuue  of  Antichrist,  and 
a>c<:t  h:s  besv.:s£  the  ttwe?  Foe  the  devil 
matters  th<se  t>.::*^s  :-  our  siisds.  wtulsc  yet 
tester*  tcut  the  xi.vtr-^se  taiy  ^  up  wtth  us. 
atad  that  he  u\i>  he  aKe  t.>  deceit  us.  Paul 
the-teevre.  m  >;xxi:r^  .nf  Autxhrsc  wvclc  t*cc 
hx>e  vossev;  o*e:  these  th.vacs  ::  thev  hoc  Nrc- 
vsv^.tahie.     let    cs  tve  the  twee  ^ocuue  rttv 

F.*c  he  %ul  t^c  evee  so  hea.Lt^: 


devil  fell  by  pride,  so  he  who  is  wrought  upon 
by  him  is  anointed  unto  pride. 

Wherefore,  I  beseech  you,  let  us  all  be  earnest 
to  be  far  removed  from  this  affection,  that  we 
may  not  fall  into  his  condemnation,  that  we  may 
not  subject  ourselves  to  the  same  punishment, 
that  we  may  not  partake  of  the  vengeance. 
"  Not  a  novice,"  he  says,  "  lest  being  puffed  up 
he  fell  into  the  condemnation  of  the  devil."  (1 
Tim.  iii.  6.)  He  who  is  puffed  up  therefore, 
suffers  the  same  punishment  with  the  devil. 
"  For  the  beginning  of  pride  is  not  to  know  the 
Lord."  (Ecclus.  x.  12,  13.)  Pride  is  the  be- 
ginning of  sin,  the  first  impulse  and  movement 
toward  evil.  Perhaps  indeed  it  is  both  the  root 
and  the  foundation.  For  "  the  beginning " 
means  either  the  first  impulse  towards  evil,  or 
the  grounding.  As  if  one  should  say,  the  be- 
ginning of  chastity  is  to  abstain  from  the  sight 
of  an  improper  object,  that  is  the  first  impulse. 
But  if  we  should  say,  the  beginning  of  chastity 
is  fasting,  that  is  the  foundation  and  establish- 
ment. So  also  pride  is  the  beginning  of  sin. 
=  For  even'  sin  begins  from  it,  and  is  maintained 
:  by  it.  For  that,  whatever  good  things  we  do, 
:  this  nee  suffers  them  not  to  remain  and  not  till 
j  away,  but  is  as  a  certain  root  not  letting  them 
abide  unshaken,  is  manifest  from  hence:  see 
,  what  things  the  Pharisee  did,  but  they  profited 
1  him  nothing.  For  he  did  not  extirpate  the  root, 
but  it  corrupted  all  his  performances,  because 
the  root  remained.  From  pride  springs  con- 
tempt  of  the  poor,  desire  of  riches,  the  lore  of 
power,  the  longing  for  much  glory.  Such  an 
one  is  prompt  to  revenge  an  insult.  For  he  who 
is  proud  cannot  bear  to  be  instated  'even  by  his 
superiors,  much*  less  by  his  inferiors.  But  be 
who  cannot  bear  to  be  insulted  cannot  bear 
either  to  suffer  any  tIL  See  how  pride  b  the 
beginning  of  sin. 

But  how  b  it  the  bepanz^  cc  priife.  not  to 
know  the  Lord?  T^strv.  For  he  who  know 
God  as  he  oc^ht  to  kao*r  Him  he  who  fca3*s 
that  the  Son  of  God  arasiNed  Hhnseaf  so  axaca, 
is  not  lifted  ~r~  Bfct  be  who  knows  aot  ttoe 
thirds*  is  -lifted  :ip„  Fcr  rrxie  i-w-r*  hnn  mfl> 
arrogance.     For  te£  =e«  wneace  s  it  that  rsef 


-  ** 


wt^  ~a<e  war  -rcc  tie  ^.axrci  sar 
&ac«r  Gcd?      Is  it  =cc  irect 
:-to  whjLt  a  rcecirtce  it  runmes 
iac^r  the  Lcrl "     Fcr  :£  God 
>ctr.t  .  Fs.  h_  t*.  erc^.  He  >: 
the  rrcoi. 

-   Tur    r    ; 


ce?    5* 

ate  3> 
i  ccnuite 


v>  cws  ,v: 


5i;tvc^   -*  tlv  te*j;;*ie    cc^  v\x*.   s;ctL^c 


tiM:  ^e 


Vft-^    Jt>    v-CO 


•v^ds^%^ 


?V^!?N 


:  :r  is  t*e 


jm  >b^  Hs.in.  -.».  I-.  7.  aoS».  &nt  J. 


,  —— . » te. 

iv-l  ^i-  roie.     It  rgoSars  a 
5cie!t^  riasciienDtrusw  rerrtrt^L 
-iesLr;cs  jc    iea±s   i.i>i  nunii 
rjjt  il*ri^  iv-<  rt  trruiriesw  s 
ilMriYs  izltjtc*.     There  s 
sxr^r^  rs  rassacir     If  he  sxcuir 


thera.-re30 

i  3iHlClL  2* 

■wraci  »3tt 
see  ie  W 


Homily  I.] 


HOMILIES  ON   THESSALONIANS. 


379 


stooping  down  to  him,  and  prostrating  himself, 
he  is  not  satisfied,  but  is  the  more  inflamed. 
For  as  the  lovers  of  money,  the  more  they 
receive,  want  so  much  the  more,  so  also  the 
proud,  the  more  honor  they  enjoy,  the  more 
they  desire.  For  their  passion  is  increased  ;  for 
a  passion  it  is,  and  a  passion  knows  not  limit, 
but  then  stops  when  it  has  slain  its  possessor. 
Do  you  not  see  that  drunkards  are  always 
thirsty?  for  it  is  a  passion,  not  the  desire  of 
nature,  but  some  perverted  disease.  Do  you 
not  see  how  those  who  are  affected  with  bulimy, 
as  it  is  called,  are  always  hungry?  For  it  is  a 
passion,  as  the  children  of  the  physicians  say, 
already  exceeding  the  bounds  of  nature.  The 
busy-bodies,  and  the  over-curious,  whatever  they 
have  learnt,  do  not  stop.  For  it  is  a  passion, 
and  has  no  limit.  (Ecclus.  xxiii.  17.)  Again, 
they  who  delight  in  fornication,  they  too  cannot 
desist.  "  To  a  fornicator,"  it  is  said,  "  all  bread 
is  sweet."  He  will  not  cease,  till  he  is  devoured. 
For  it  is  a  passion. 

But  they  are  indeed  passions,  not  however 
incurable,  but  admitting  of  cure,  and  much 
more  than  bodily  affections.  For  if  we  will,  we 
can  extinguish  them.  How  then  can  a  man 
extinguish  pride?  By  knowing  God.  For  if 
it  arises  from  not  knowing  God,  if  we  know 
Him,  all  pride  is  banished.  Think  of  Hell. 
Think  of  those  who  are  much  better  than  your- 
self. Think  of  your  sins.  Think  for  how  many 
things  you  deserve  punishment  from  God.  If 
you  think  of  these,  you  will  soon  bring  down 
your  proud  mind,  you  will  soon  bend  it.  But 
can  you  not  do  these  things?  are  you  too 
weak?  Consider  things  present,  human  nature 
itself,  the  nothingness  of  man !  When  thou 
seest  a  dead  body  carried  through  the  market- 
place, orphan  children  following  it,  a  widow 
beating  her  breast,  servants  bewailing,  friends 
looking  dejected,  reflect  upon  the  nothingness 
of  things  present,  and  that  they  differ  not  from 
a  shadow,  or  a  dream. 

Does  this  not  suit  you  ?  Think  of  those  who 
are  very  rich,  who  perish  anyhow  in  war ;  look 
round  on  the  houses,  that  belonged  to  the  great 
and  illustrious,  and  are  now  leveled  to  the 
ground.  Consider  how  mighty  they  were,  and 
now  not  even  a  memorial  of  them  is  left.  For, 
if  you  will,  every  day  you  may  find  examples  of 


these  things — the  successions  of  rulers,  —  the 
confiscations  of  rich  men's  goods.  "  Many  ty- 
rants have  sat  upon  the  ground  —  and  he  who 
was  never  thought  on,  has  worn  a  diadem." 
(Ecclus.  xi.  15.)  Do  not  these  things  happen 
every  day  ?  Do  not  our  affairs  resemble  a  kind 
of  wheel?  Read,  if  you  will,  both  our  own 
(books),  and  those  without:1  for  they  also 
abound  in  such  examples.  If  you  despise  ours, 
and  this  from  pride ;  if  you  admire  the  works 
of  philosophers,  go  even  to  them.  They  will 
instruct  thee,  relating  ancient  calamities,  as  will 
poets,  and  orators,  and  sophists,  and  all  histo- 
rians. From  every  side,  if  you  will,  you  may 
find  examples. 

But  if  you  will  none  of  these  things,  reflect 
upon  our  very  nature,  of  what  it  consists,  and 
wherein  it  ends.  Consider,  when  you  sleep,  of 
what  worth  are  you?  Will  not  even  a  little 
beast  be  able  to  destroy  thee?  For  often  a 
little  animal  falling  from  the  roof  has  deprived 
many  persons  of  sight,  or  has  been  the  cause  of 
some  other  danger.  But  what?  art  thou  not 
less  than  all  beasts  ?  But  what  sayest  thou  ?  that 
thou  excellest  in  reason  ?  But  behold,  thou  hast 
not  reason :  for  pride  is  a  sign  of  the  want  of 
reason.  And  for  what,  tell  me,  art  thou  high- 
minded  after  all  ?  Is  it  upon  the  good  consti- 
tution of  thy  body?  But  the  prize  of  victory 
here  is  with  the  irrational  creatures ;  this  is  pos- 
sessed also  by  robbers  and  murderers,  and  vio- 
lators of  the  tombs.  But  art  thou  proud  of 
thine  understanding?  It  is  no  proof  of  under- 
standing to  be  proud.  By  this  then  first  thou 
deprivest  thyself  of  becoming  intelligent.  Let 
us  bring  down  our  high  thoughts.  Let  us  be 
moderate,  and  lowly,  and  gentle.  For  such 
even  Christ  has  pronounced  blessed  above  all, 
saying,  "  Blessed  are  the  poor  in  spirit."  (Matt, 
v.  3.)  And  again,  He  cried,  saying,  "  Learn  of 
Me,  for  I  am  meek  and  lowly  in  heart."  (Matt, 
xi.  29.)  For  this  reason  He  washed  the  feet 
of  His  disciples,  affording  us  an  example  of 
humility.  From  all  these  things  let  us  gain 
profit,  that  we  may  be  able  to  obtain  the  bless- 
ings promised  to .  those  who  love  Him,  by  the 
grace  and  lovingkindness,  &c. 

1  The  sequel  clearly  shows  that  he  means  Christian  and  Heathen 
books,  and  so  the  words  themselves  mean,  rather  than  domestic  and 
foreign  history. 


3«o 


WORKS   OF    ST.    CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  IL 


HOMILY    II. 

2  Thessalonians  i.   I,  2. 


"  Paul,  and  Silvanus,  and  Timothy,  unto  the  Church  of 
the  Thessalonians  in  God  our  Father  and  the  Lord 

iesus  Christ :  Grace  to  you  and  peace  from  God  the 
ather  and  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ." 

Thk  greater  part  of  men  do  and  devise  all 
things  with  a  view  to  ingratiate  themselves  with 
rulers,  and  with  those  who  are  greater  than 
themselves ;  and  they  account  it  a  great  thing, 
and  think  themselves  happy,  if  they  can  obtain 
that  object.  But  if  to  obtain  favor  with  men  is 
so  great  an  advantage,  how  great  must  it  be  to 
find  favor  with  God  ?  On  this  account  he  always 
thus  prefaces  his  Epistle,  and  invokes  this  upon 
them,  knowing  that  if  this  be  granted,  there  will 
be  nothing  afterwards  grievous,  but  whatever 
troubles  there  may  be,  all  will  be  done  away. 
And  that  you  may  learn  this,  Joseph  was  a  slave, 
a  young  man,  inexperienced,  unformed,  and 
suddenly  the  direction  of  a  house  was  com- 
mitted to  his  hands,  and  he  had  to  render  an 
account  to  an  Egyptian  master.  And  you  know 
how  prone  to  anger  and  unforgiving  that  people 
is,  and  when  authority  and  power  is  added,  their 
rage  is  greater,  being  inflamed  by  power.  And 
this  too  is  manifest  from  what  he  did  afterwards. 
For  when  the  mistress  made  accusation,  he  bore 
with  it.  And  yet  it  was  not  the  part  of  those 
who  held  the  garment,  but  of  him  who  was 
stripped,  to  have  suffered  violence.  For  he 
ought  to  have  said,  If  he  had  heard  that  thou 
didst  raise  thy  voice,  as  thou  sayest,  he  would 
have  fled,  and  if  he  had  been  guilty,  he  would 
not  have  waited  for  the  coming  of  his  master. 
But  nevertheless  he  took  nothing  of  this  sort : 
into  consideration,  but  unreasonably  giving  way ! 
altogether  to  anger,  he  cast  him  into  prison. 
So  thoughtless  a  person  was  he.  And  yet  even  I 
from  other  things  he  might  have  conjectured  the  : 
good  disposition  and  the  intelligence  of  the  man. 
But  nevertheless,  because  he  was  very  unreason- 
able, he  never  considered  any  such  thing.  He 
therefore  who  had  to  do  with  such  a  harsh  mas- 
ter, and  who  was  intrusted  with  the  administra- 
tion of  his  whole  house,  being  a  stranger,  and 
solitary,  and  inexperienced ;  when  God  shed 
abundant  grace  upon  him,  passed  through  all. 
as  if  his  temptations  had  not  even  existed,  both 
the  false  accusation  of  his  mistress,  and  the  dan- 
ger of  death,  and  the  prison,  and  at  last  came 
to  the  royal  throne. 

This  blessed  man  therefore  saw  how  great  is 
the  grace  of  God.  and  on  this  account  he  in- 
vokes it  upon  them.     And  another  thing  also 


he  effects,  wishing  to  render  them  well-disposed 
to  the  remaining  part  of  the  Epistle;  that, 
though  he  should  reprove  and  rebuke  them, 
they  might  not  break  away  from  him.  For  this 
reason  he  reminds  them  before  all  things  of  the 
grace  of  God,  mollifying  their  hearts,  that,  even 
if  there  be  affliction,  being  reminded  of  the 
grace  by  which  they  were  saved  from  the  greater 
evil,  they  may  not  despair  at  the  less,  but  may 
thence  derive  consolation.  As  also  elsewhere 
in  an  Epistle  he  has  said,  "For  if,  while  we 
were  enemies,  we  were  reconciled  to  God  through 
the  death  of  His  Son,  much  more,  being  recon- 
ciled, shall  we  be  saved  by  His  life."  (Rom. 
v.  10.) 

"  Grace  to  you  and  peace,"  he  says,  "  from 
God  the  Father  and  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ." 

Ver.  3.  "We  are  bound  to  give  thanks  to 
God  alway  for  you,  brethren,  even  as  it  is 
meet." 

Again  a  sign  of  great  humility.  For  he  led 
them  to  reflect  and  consider,  that  if  for  our  good 
actions  others  do  not  admire  us  first,  but  God, 
much  more  also  ought  we.  And  in  other  re- 
spects too  he  raises  up  their  spirits,  because  they 
suffer  such  things  as  are  not  worthy  of  tears  and 
lamentations,  but  of  thanksgiving  to  God.  But 
if  Paul  is  thankful  for  the  good  of  others,  what 
will  they  suffer,  who  not  only  are  not  thankful, 
but  even  pine  at  it. 

"  For  that  your  faith  groweth  exceedingly,  and 
the  love  of  each  one  of  you  all  toward  one 
another  aboundeth." 

And  how,  you  say,  can  faith  increase?  That  is 
when  we  surfer  something  dreadful  for  it.  It  is  a 
great  thing  for  it  to  be  established,  and  not  to  be 
carried  away  by  reasonings.  But  when  the  winds 
assail  us,  when  the  rains  burst  upon  us,  when  a 
violent  storm  is  raised  on  every  side,  and  the 
waves  succeed  each  other  —  then  that  we  are 
not  shaken,  is  a  proof  of  no  less  than  this,  that 
it  grows,  and  grows  exceedingly,  and  becomes 
loftier.  For  as  in  the  case  of  the  flood  all  the 
stony  and  lower  parts  are  soon  hidden,  but  as 
many  things  as  are  above,  it  reaches  not  them,  so 
also  the  faith  that  is  become  lofty,  is  not  drawn 
downwards.  For  this  reason  he  does  not  say 
44  your  faith  groweth,"  but "  groweth  exceedingly, 
and  the  love  of  each  oYie  of  vou  all  toward  one 
another  aboundeth."  Seest  thou  how  this  con- 
tributes for  the  ease  of  affliction,  to  be  in  close 
guard  together,  and  to  adhere  to  one  another? 
From  this  also  arose  much  consolation.     The 


Homily  II.] 


HOMILIES   ON  THESSALONIANS. 


38l 


love  and  faith,  therefore,  that  is  weak,  afflictions 
shake,  but  that  which  is  strong  they  render 
stronger.  For  a  soul  that  is  in  grief,  when  it  is 
weak,  can  add  nothing  to  itself;  but  that  which 
is  strong  doth  it  then  most.  And  observe  their 
love.  They  did  not  love  one  indeed,  and  not 
love  another,  but  it  was  equal  on  the  part  of  all. 
For  this  he  has  intimated,  by  saying,  "  of  each 
one  of  you  all  toward  one  another."  For  it  was 
equally  poised,  as  that  of  one  body.  Since  even 
now  we  find  love  existing  among  many,  but  this 
love  becoming  the  cause  of  division.  For  when 
we  are  knit  together  in  parties  of  two  or  three, 
and  the  two  indeed,  or  three  or  four,  are  closely 
bound  to  one  another,  but  draw  themselves  off 
from  the  rest,  because  they  can  have  recourse  to 
these,  and  in  all  things  confide  in  these  ;  this  is 
the  division  of  love  —  not  love.  For  tell  me,  if 
the  eye  should  bestow  upon  the  hand  the  fore- 
sight which  it  has  for  the  whole  body,  and  with- 
drawing itself  from  the  other  members,  should 
attend  to  that  alone,  would  it  not  injure  the 
whole  ?  Assuredly.  So  also  if  we  confine  to  one 
or  two  the  love  which  ought  to  be  extended  to 
the  whole  Church  of  God,  we  injure  both  our- 
selves and  them,  and  the  whole.  For  these 
things  are  not  of  love,  but  of  division  ;  schisms, 
and  distracting  rents.  Since  even  if  I  separate 
and  take  a  member  from  the  whole  man,  the 
part  separated  indeed  is  united  in  itself,  is  con- 
tinuous, all  compacted  together,  yet  even  so  it  is 
a  separation,  since  it  is  not  united  to  the  rest  of 
the  body. 

For  what  advantage  is  it,  that  thou  lovest  a 
certain  person  exceedingly  ?  It  is  a  human  love. 
But  if  it  is  not  a  human  love,  but  thou  lovest  for 
God's  sake,  then  love  all.  For  so  God  hath 
commanded  to  love  even  our  enemies.  And  if 
He  hath  commanded  to  love  our  enemies,  how 
much  more  those  who  have  never  aggrieved  us  ? 
But,  sayest  thou,  I  love,  but  not  in  that  way. 
Rather,  thou  dost  not  love  at  all.  For  when 
thou  accusest,  when  thou  enviest,  when  thou 
lay  est  snares,  how  dost  thou  love  ?  "  But,"  say- 
est thou,  "  I  do  none  of  these  things."  But 
when  a  man  is  ill  spoken  of,  and  thou  dost  not 
shut  the  mouth  of  the  speaker,  aost  not  disbe- 
lieve his  sayings,  dost  not  check  him,  of  what 
love  is  this  the  sign  ?  "  And  the  love,"  he  says, 
u  of  each  one  of  you  all  toward  one  another 
aboundeth." 

Ver.  4.  "So  that  we  ourselves  glory  in  you  in 
the  Churches  of  God." 

Indeed  in  the  first  Epistle  he  says,  that  all 
the  Churches  of  Macedonia  and  Achaia  re- 
sounded, having  heard  of  their  faith.  "  So  that 
we  need  not,"  he  says,  "  to  speak  anything. 
For  they  themselves  report  concerning  us  what 
manner  of  entering  in  we  had  unto  you." 
( 1   Thess.   i.  8.)     But  here  he  says,  "  so  that 


we  glory."  What  then  is  it  that  is  said  ?  There 
he  says  that  they  need  not  instruction  from  him, 
but  here  he  has  not  said  that  we  teach  them, 
but  "we  glory,"  and  are  proud  of  you.  If 
therefore  we  both  give  thanks  to  God  for  you, 
and  glory  among  men,  much  more  ought  you  to 
do  so  for  your  own  good  deeds.  For  if  your 
good  actions  are  worthy  of  boasting  from  others, 
how  are  they  worthy  of  lamentation  from  you  ? 
It  is  impossible  to  say.  "  So  that  we  ourselves," 
he  says,  "  glory  in  you  in  the  Churches  of  God, 
for  your  patience  and  faith." 

Here  he  shows  that  much  time  had  elapsed. 
For  patience  is  shown  by  much  time,  not  in  two 
or  three  days.  And  he  does  not  merely  say 
patience.  It  is  the  part  of  patience  indeed  prop- 
erly not  yet  to  enjoy  the  promised  blessings. 
But  here  he  speaks  of  a  greater  patience.  And 
of  what  sort  is  that  ?  That  which  is  shown  in 
persecutions.  "  For  your  patience,"  he  says, 
"  and  faith  in  all  your  persecutions  and  in  the 
afflictions  which  ye  endure."  For  they  were 
living  with  enemies  who  were  continually  en- 
deavoring on  every  side  to  injure  them,  and  they 
were  manifesting  a  patience  firm  and  immov- 
able. Let  all  those  blush  who  for  the  sake  of 
the  patronage  of  men  pass  over  to  other  doc- 
trines. For  whilst  it  was  yet  the  beginning  of 
the  preaching,  poor  men  who  lived  by  their 
daily  earnings  took  upon  themselves  enmities 
from  rulers  and  the  first  men  of  the  state,  when 
there  was  nowhere  king  or  governor  who  was  a 
believer;  and  submitted  to  irreconcilable  war, 
and  not  even  so  were  unsettled. 

Ver.  5.  "  Which  is  a  manifest  token  of  the 
righteous  judgment  of  God." 

See  how  he  gathers  comfort  for  them.  He 
had  said,  We  give  thanks  to  God,  he  had  said, 
We  glory  among  men  :  these  things  indeed  are 
honorable.  But  that  which  he  most  seeks  for, 
who  is  in  suffering,  is,  deliverance  from  evils, 
and  vengeance  upon  those  who  are  evil  entreat- 
ing them.  For  when  the  soul  is  weak,  it  most 
seeks  for  these  things,  for  the  philosophic  soul 
does  not  even  seek  these  things.  Why  then 
does  he  say,  "  a  token  of  the  righteous  Judg- 
ment of  God  "  ?  Here  he  has  glanced  at  the 
retribution  on  either  side,  both  of  those  who  do 
the  ill,  and  of  those  who  suffer  it,  as  if  he  had 
said,  that  the  justice  of  God  may  be  shown  when 
He  crowns  you  indeed,  but  punishes  them.  At 
the  same  time  also  he  comforts  them,  showing 
that  from  their  own  labors  and  toils  they  are 
crowned,  and  according  to  the  proportion  of 
righteousness.  But  he  puts  their  part  first.  For 
although  a  person  even  vehemently  desires  re- 
venge, yet  he  first  longs  for  reward.  For  this 
reason  he  says, 

"That  ye  may  be  counted  worthy  of  the 
kingdom  of  God,  for  which  ye  also  suffer." 


382 


WORKS   OF   ST.   CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  II. 


This  then  does  not  come  to  pass  from  the 
circumstance  that  those  who  injure  them  are 
more  powerful  than  they,  but  because  it  is  so 
that  they  must  enter  into  the  kingdom.  "  For 
through  many  tribulations,"  he  says,  "  we  must 
enter  into  the  kingdom  of  God."    (Actsxiv.  22.) 

Ver.  6,  7.  "  If  so  be  that  it  is  a  righteous 
thing  with  God  to  recompense  affliction  to  them 
that  afflict  you,  and  to  you  that  are  afflicted 
rest  with  us  at  the  revelation  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
from  heaven  with  the  Angels  of  His  power." 

The  phrase  "  If  so  be  that "  here  is  put  for 
"because,"  which  we  also  use,  in  speaking  of 
things  that  are  quite  evident  and  not  to  be 
denied ;  instead  01  saying,  "  Because  it  is  ex- 
ceedingly righteous."  "  If  so  be,"  he  says, 
"  that  it  is  a  righteous  thing  "  with  God  to  pun- 
ish these,  he  will  certainly  punish  them.  As  if 
he  had  said,  "  If  God  cares  for  human  affairs," 
"  If  God  takes  thought."  And  he  does  not  put 
it  of  his  own  opinion,  but  among  things  con- 
fessedly true  ;  as  if  one  said,  "  If  God  hates  the 
wicked,"  that  he  may  compel  them  to  grant 
that  He  does  hate  them.  For  such  sentences 
are  above  all  indisputable,  inasmuch  as  they 
also  themselves  know  that  it  is  just.  For  if  this 
is  just  with  men,  much  more  with  God. 

"  To  recompense,"  he  says,  "  affliction  to  them 
that  afflict  you,  and  to  you  that  are  afflicted 
rest."  What  then  ?  Is  the  retribution  equal  ? * 
By  no  means,  but  see  by  what  follows  how  he 
shows  that  it  is  more  severe,  and  the  "rest" 
much  greater.  Behold  also  another  consolation, 
in  that  they  have  their  partners  in  the  afflictions, 
as  partners  also  in  the  retribution.  He  joins 
them  in  their  crowns  with  those  who  had  per- 
formed infinitely  more  and  greater  works.  Then 
he  adds  also  the  period,  and  by  the  description 
leads  their  minds  upward,  all  but  opening  heaven 
already  by  his  word,  and  setting  it  before  their 
eyes ;  and  he  places  around  Him  the  angelic 
host,  both  from  the  place  and  from  the  attend- 
ants amplifying  the  image,  so  that  they  may  be  re- 
freshed a  little.  "  And  to  you  that  are  afflicted  rest 
with  us,"  he  says,  "  at  the  revelation  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  from  heaven  with  the  Angels  of  his  power." 

Ver.  8.  "  In  flaming  fire  rendering  vengeance 
to  them  that  know  not  God,  and  to  them  that 
obey  not  the  Gospel  of  our  Lord  Jesus." 

If  they  that  have  not  obeyed  the  Gospel  suffer 
vengeance,  what  will  not  they  suffer  who  besides 
their  disobedience  also  afflict  you?  And  see 
his  intelligence ;  he  says  not  here  those  who 
afflict  you,  but  those  "who  obey  not."  So  that 
although  not  on  your  account,  yet  on  His  own 
it  is  necessary  to  punish  them.  This  then  is 
said  in  order  to  full  assurance,  that  it  is  alto- 
gether necessary  for  them  to  be  punished  :  but 


1  i.e.  to  the  works. 


what  was  said  before,  was  said  that  they  also 
might  be  honored,  because  they  suffer  these 
things  on  your  account.  The  one  causes  them 
to  believe  concerning  the  punishment ;  the  other 
to  be  pleased,  because  for  the  sake  of  what  has 
been  done  to  them  they  suffer  these  things. 

All  this  was  said  to  them,  but  it  applies  also 
to  us.  When  therefore  we  are  in  affliction,  let 
us  consider  these  things.  Let  us  not  rejoice  at 
the  punishment  of  others  as  being  avenged,  but 
as  ourselves  escaping  from  such  punishment  and 
vengeance.  For  what  advantage  is  it  to  us  when 
others  are  punished?  Let  us  not,  I  beseech 
you,  have  such  souls.  Let  us  be  invited  to  virtue 
by  the  prospect  of  the  kingdom.  For  he  indeed 
who  is  exceedingly  virtuous  is  induced  neither 
by  fear  nor  by  the  prospect  of  the  kingdom,  but 
for  Christ's  sake  alone,  as  was  the  case  with 
Paul.  Let  us,  however,  even  thus  consider  the 
blessings  of  .the  kingdom,  the  miseries  of  hell, 
and  thus  regulate  and  school  ourselves ;  let  us 
in  this  way  bring  ourselves  to  the  things  that  are 
to  be  practiced.  When  you  see  anything  good 
and  great  in  the  present  life,  think  of  the  king- 
dom, and  you  will  consider  it  as  nothing.  When 
you  see  anything  terrible,  think  of  hell,  and  you 
will  deride  it.  When  you  are  possessed  by  carnal 
desire,  think  of  the  fire,  think  also  of  the  pleas- 
ure of  sin  itself,  that  it  is  nothing  worth,  that  it 
has  not  even  pleasure  in  it.  For  if  the  fear  of 
the  laws  that  are  enacted  here  has  so  great 
power  as  to  withdraw  us  from  wicked  actions, 
how  much  more  should  the  remembrance  of 
things  future,  the  vengeance  that  is  immortal, 
the  punishment  that  is  everlasting?  If  the  fear 
of  an  earthly  king  withdraws  us  from  so  many 
evils,  how  much  more  the  fear  of  the  King 
Eternal  ? 

Whence  then  can  we  constantly  have  this 
fear?  If  we  continually  hearken  to  the  Scrip- 
tures. For  if  the  sight  only  of  a  dead  body  so 
depresses  the  mind,  how  much  more  must  hell 
and  the  fire  unquenchable,  how  much  more  the 
worm  that  never  dieth.  If  we  always  think  of 
hell,  we  shall  not  soon  fall  into  it.  For  this 
reason  God  has  threatened  punishment ;  if  it 
was  not  attended  with  great  advantage  to  think 
of  it,  God  would  not  have  threatened  it.  But 
because  the  remembrance  of  it  is  able  to  work 
great  good,  for  this  reason  He  has  put  into  our 
souls  the  terror  of  it,  as  a  wholesome  medicine. 
Let  us  not  then  overlook  the  great  advantage 
arising  from  it,  but  let  us  continually  advert  to 
it,  at  our  dinners,  at  our  suppers.  For  conver- 
sation about  pleasant  things  profits  the  soul 
nothing,  but  renders  it  more  languid,  while  that 
about  things  painful  and  melancholy  cuts  off  all 
that  is  relaxed  and  dissolute  in  it,  and  converts  . 
it,  and  braces  it  when  unnerved.  He  who  con- 
verses of  theaters  and  actors  does  not  benefit 


Homily  II.] 


HOMILIES   ON  THESSALONIANS. 


383 


the  soul,  but  inflames  it  more,  and  renders  it 
more  careless.  He  who  concerns  himself  and 
is  busy  in  other  men's  matters,  often  even  in- 
volves it  in  dangers  by  this  curiosity.  But  he 
who  converses  about  hell  incurs  no  dangers,  and 
renders  it  more  sober. 

But  dost  thou  fear  the  offensiveness  of  such 
words?  Hast  thou  then,  if  thou  art  silent,  ex- 
tinguished hell?  or  if  thou  speakest  of  it,  hast 
thou  kindled  it?  Whether  thou  speakest  of  it 
or  not,  the  fire  boils  forth.  Let  it  be  continually 
spoken  of,  that  thou  mayest  never  fall  into  it. 
It  is  not  possible  that  a  soul  anxious  about  hell 
should  readily  sin.  For  hear  the  most  excellent 
advice,  "  Remember,"  it  says,  "  thy  latter  end  " 
(Ecclus.  xxviii.  6),  and  thou  wilt  not  sin  for 
ever.  A  soul  that  is  fearful  of  giving  account 
cannot  but  be  slow  to  transgression.  For  fear 
being  vigorous  in  the  soul  does  not  permit  any- 
thing worldly  to  exist  in  it.  For.  if  discourse 
raised  concerning  hell  so  humbles  and  brings  it 
low,  does  not  the  reflection  constantly  dwelling 
upon  the  soul  purify  it  more  than  any  fire  ? 

Let  us  not  remember  the  kingdom  so  much 
as  hell.  For  fear  has  more  power  than  the 
promise.  And  I  know  that  many  would  despise 
ten  thousand  blessings,  if  they  were  rid  of  the 
punishment,  inasmuch  as  it  is  even  now  suf- 
ficient for  me  to  escape  vengeance,  and  not  to 
be  punished.  No  one  of  those  who  have  hell 
before  their  eyes  will  fall  into  hell.  No  one  of 
those  who  despise  hell  will  escape  hell.  For  as 
among  us  those  who  fear  the  judgment- seats 
will  not  be  apprehended  by  them,  but  those  who 
despise  them  are  chiefly  those  who  fall  under 
them,  so  it  is  also  in  this  case.  If  the  Ninevites 
had  not  feared  destruction,  they  would  have 
been  overthrown,  but  because  they  feared,  they 
were  not  overthrown.  If  in  the  time  of  Noah 
they  had  feared  the  deluge,  they  would  not  have 
been  drowned.  And  if  the  Sodomites  had  feared, 
they  would  not  have  been  consumed  by  fire.  It 
is  a  great  evil  to  despise  a  threat.  He  who 
despises  threatening  will  soon  experience  its 
reality  in  the  execution  of  it.  Nothing  is  so 
profitable  as  to  converse  concerning  hell.  It 
renders  our  souls  purer  than  any  silver.  For 
hear  the  prophet  saying,  "Thy  judgments  are 
always  before  me."  (From  Ps.  xvii.  22,  Sept.) 
For  although  it  pains  the  hearer,  it  benefits  him 
very  much. 

For  such  indeed  are  all  things  that  profit. 
For  medicines  too,  and  food,  at  first  annoy  the 
sick,  and  then  do  him  good.  And  if  we  cannot 
bear  the  severity  of  words,  it  is  manifest  that  we 
shall  not  be  able  to  bear  affliction  in  very  deed. 
If  no  one  endures  a  discourse  concerning  hell, 
it  is  evident,  that  if  persecution  came  on,  no 
one  would  ever  stand  firm  against  fire,  against 
sword.     Let  us  exercise  our  ears  not  to  be  over 


soft  and  tender  :  for  from  this  we  shall  come  to 
endure  even  the  things  themselves.  If  we  be 
habituated  to  hear  of  dreadful  things,  we  shall 
be  habituated  also  to  endure  dreadful  things. 
But  if  we  be  so  relaxed  as  not  to  endure  even 
words,  when  shall  we  stand  against  things  ?  Do 
you  see  how  the  blessed  Paul  despises  all  things 
here,  and  dangers  one  after  another,  as  not  even 
temptations  ?  Wherefore  ?  Because  he  had  been 
in  the  practice  of  despising  hell,  for  the  sake  of 
what  was  God's  will.  He  thought  even  the  ex- 
perience of  hell  to  be  nothing  for  the  sake  of 
the  love  of  Christ ;  while  we  do  not  even  endure 
a  discourse  concerning  it  for  our  own  advantage. 
Now  therefore  having  heard  a  little,  go  your 
ways ;  but  I  beseech  you  if  there  is  any  love  in 
you,  constantly  to  revert  to  discourses  concern- 
ing these  things.  They  can  do  you  no  harm, 
even  if  they  should  not  benefit,  but  assuredly 
the.y  will  benefit  you  too.  For  according  to  our 
discourses,  the  soul  is  qualified.  For  evil  com- 
munications, he  says,  "  corrupt  good  manners." 
Therefore  also  good  communications  improve 
it ;  therefore  also  fearful  discourses  make  it  sober. 
For  the  soul  is  a  sort  of  wax.  For  if  you  apply 
cold  discourses,  you  harden  and  make  it  callous  ; 
but  if  fiery  ones,  you  melt  it ;  and  having  melted 
it,  you  form  it  to  what  you  will,  and  engrave  the 
royal  image  upon  it.  Let  us  therefore  stop  up 
our  ears  to  discourses  that  are  vain.  It  is  no 
little  evil ;  for  from  it  arise  all  evils. 

If  our  mind  had  been  practiced  to  apply  to 
divine  discourses,  it  would  not  apply  to  others ; 
and  not  applying  to  others,  neither  would  it  be- 
take itself  to  evil  actions.  For  words  are  the 
road  to  works.  First  we  think,  then  we  speak, 
then  we  act.*  Many  men,  even  when  before 
sober,  have  often  from  disgraceful  words  gone 
on  to  disgraceful  actions.  For  our  soul  is  neither 
good  nor  evil  by  nature,  but  becomes  both  the 
one  and  the  other  from  choice.  As  therefore 
the  sail  carries  the  ship  wherever  the  wind  may 
blow,  or  rather  as  the  rudder  moves  the  ship, 
if  the  wind  be  favorable,  so  also  thought  will 
sail  without  danger,  if  good  words  from  a  favor- 
able quarter  waft  it.  But  if  the  contrary,  often 
they  will  even  overwhelm  the  reason.  For  what 
winds  are  to  ships,  that  discourses  are  to  souls. 
Wherever  you  will,  you  may  move  and  turn  it. 
For  this  reason  one  exhorting  says,  "  Let  thy 
whole  discourse  be  in  the  law  of  the  Most  High." 
(Ecclus.  xx.  20.)  Wherefore,  I  exhort  you, 
when  we  receive  children  from  the  nurse,  let  us 
not  accustom  them  to  old  wives'  stories,  but  let 
them  learn  from  their  first  youth  that  there  is  a 
Judgment,  that  there  is  a  punishment ;  let  it  be 
infixed  in  their  minds.  This  fear  being  rooted 
in  them  produces  great  good  effects.  For  a 
soul  that  has  learnt  from  its  first  youth  to  be 
subdued  by  this  expectation,  will  not  soon  shake 


3»4 


WORKS   OF    ST.    CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  III. 


off  this  fear.  But  like  a  horse  obedient  to  the 
bridle,  having  the  thought  of  hell  seated  upon 
it,  walking  orderly,  it  will  both  speak  and  utter 
things  profitable  ;  and  neither  youth  nor  riches, 
nor  an  orphan  state,  nor  any  other  thing,  will  be 
able  to  injure  it,  having  its  reason  so  firm  and 
able  to  hold  out  against  everything. 

By  these  discourses  let  us  regulate  as  well  our- 
selves as  our  wives  too,  our  servants,  our  children, 
our  friends,  and,  if  possible,  our  enemies.  For 
with  these  discourses  we  are  able  to  cut  off  the 
greater  part  of  our  sins,  and  it  is  better  to  dwell 
upon  things  grievous  than  upon  things  agreeable, 
and  it  is  manifest  from  hence.  For,  tell  me,  if 
you  should  go  into  a  house  where  a  marriage  is 
celebrated,  for  a  season  you  are  delighted  at  the 
spectacle,  but  afterwards  having  gone  away,  you 
pine  with  grief  that  you  have  not  so  much.  But 
if  you  enter  the  house  of  mourners,  even  though 
they  are  very  rich,  when  you  go  away  you  will 
be  rather  refreshed.  For  there  you  have  not 
conceived  envy,  but  comfort  and  consolation  in 
your  poverty.  You  have  seen  by  facts,  that 
riches  are  no  good,  poverty  no  evil,  but  they  are 
things  indifferent.  So  also  now,  if  you  talk 
about  luxury,  you  the  more  vex  your  soul,  that 
is  not  able  perhaps  to  be  luxurious.  But  if  you 
are  speaking  against  luxury,  and  introduce  dis- 
course concerning  hell,  the  thing  will  cheer  you, 
and  beget  much  pleasure.  For  when  you  con- 
sider that  luxury  will  not  be  able  to  defend  us  at 
all  against  that  fire,  you  will  not  seek  after  it ; 
but  if  you  reflect  that  it  is  wont  to  kindle  it  even 
more,  you  will  not  only  not  seek,  but  will  turn 
from  it  and  reject  it. 

Let  us  not  avoid  discourses  concerning  hell, 
that  we  may  avoid  hell.     Let  us  not  banish  the 


remembrance  of  punishment,  that  we  may  escape 
punishment.     If  the  rich  man  had  reflected  upon 
that  fire,  he  would  not  have  sinned  ;  but  because 
he  never  was  mindful  of  it,  therefore  he  fell  into 
it.     Tell  me,  O  man,  being  about  to  stand  before 
the  Judgment-seat  of  Christ,  dost  thou  speak  of 
all  things  rather  than  of  that?     And  when  you 
have  a  matter  before  a  judge,  often  only  relating 
to  words,  neither  day  nor  night,  at  no  time  or 
season   dost   thou    talk    of   anything   else,  but 
always  of  that  business,  and  when  thou  art  about 
to  give  an  account  of  thy  whole  life,  and  to  sub- 
mit to  a  trial,  canst  thou  not  bear  even  with 
others  reminding  thee  of  that  Judgment  ?    For 
this  reason  therefore  all  things  are  ruined  and 
undone,  because  when  we  are  about  to  stand  be- 
fore a  human  tribunal  concerning  matters  of  this 
life,  we  move  everything,  we  solicit  all  men,  we 
are  constantly  anxious  about  it,  we  do  every- 
thing for  the  sake  of  it :  but  when  we  are  about, 
after  no  long  time,  to  come  before  the  Judgment- 
seat  of  Christ,  we  do  nothing  either  by  ourselves, 
or  by  others ;  we  do  not  entreat  the  Judge.  And 
yet  He  grants  to  us  a  long  season  of  forbearance, 
and  does  not  snatch  us  away  in  the  midst  of  our 
sins,  but  permits  us  -to  put  them  off,  and  that 
Goodness  and  Lovingkindness  leaves  nothing 
undone  of  all  that  belongs  to  Himself.     But  all 
is  of  no  avail ;  on  this  account  the  punishment 
will  be  the  heavier.     But  God  forbid  it  should 
be  so  !     Wherefore,  I  beseech  you,  let  us  even  if 
but  now  become  watchful.     Let  us  keep  hell  be- 
fore our  eyes.     Let  us  consider  that  inexorable 
Account,  that,  thinking  of  those  things,  we  may 
both  avoid  vice,  and  choose  virtue,  and  may  be 
able  to  obtain  the  blessings  promised  to  those  who 
love  Him,  by  the  grace  and  lovingkindness,  &c. 


HOMILY    III. 

2  Thessalonians  i.  9,  10. 


M 


Who  shall  suffer  punishment,  even  eternal  destruction 
from  the  face  of  the  Lord,  and  from  the  glory  of 
His  might,  when  He  shall  come  to  be  glorified  in 
His  Saints,  and  to  be  marveled  at  in  all  them  that 
believed." 


There  are  many  men,  who  form  good  hopes 
not  by  abstaining  from  their  sins,  but  by  thinking 
that  hell  is  not  so  terrible  as  it  is  said  to  be,  but 
milder  than  what  is  threatened,  and  temporary, 
not  eternal ;  and  about  this  they  philosophize 
much.  But  I  could  show  from  many  reasons, 
and  conclude  from  the  very  expressions  con- 


cerning hell,  that  it  is  not  only  not  milder,  but 
much  more  terrible  than  is  threatened.  But  I 
do  not  now  intend  to  discourse  concerning  these 
things.  For  the  fear  even  from  bare  words  is 
sufficient,  though  we  do  not  fully  unfold  their 
meaning.  But  that  it  is  not  temporary,  hear 
Paul  now  saying,  concerning  those  who  know 
not  God,  and  who  do  not  believe  in  the  Gospel, 
that  "  they  shall  suffer  punishment,  even  eternal 
destruction."  How  then  is  that  temporary  which 
is  everlasting  ?  "  From  the  face  of  the  Lord," 
he  says.    What  is  this?     He  here  wishes  to  say 


Homily  III.] 


HOMILIES  ON  THESSALONIANS. 


383 


how  easily  it  might  be.  For  since  they  were 
then  much  puffed  up,  there  is  no  need,  he  says, 
of  much  trouble ;  it  is  enough  that  God  comes 
and  is  seen,  and  all  are  involved  in  punishment 
and  vengeance.  His  coming  only  to  some  in- 
deed will  be  Light,  but  to  others  vengeance. 

"  And  from  the  glory  of  His  might," .  he  says, 
"  when  He  shall  come  to  be  glorified  in  His 
Saints,  and  to  be  marveled  at  in  all  them  that 
believed." 

Is  God  glorified?  Yea,  he  says,  in  all  the 
Saints.  How?  For  when  they  that  puff  so 
greatly  see  those  who  were  scourged  by  them, 
who  were  despised,  who  were  derided,  even 
those  now  near  to  Him,  it  is  His  glory,  or  rather 
it  is  their  glory,  both  theirs  and  His ;  His  in- 
deed, because  He  did  not  forsake  them ;  theirs, 
because  they  were  thought  worthy  of  so  great 
honor.  For  as  it  is  His  riches,  that  there  are 
faithful  men,  so  also  it  is  His  glory  that  there 
are  those  who  are  to  enjoy  His  blessings.  It  is 
the  glory  of  Him  that  is  good,  to  have  those  to 
whom  He  may  impart  His  beneficence.  "And 
to  be  marveled  at,"  he  says,  "  in  all  them  that 
believed,"  that  is,  "  through  them  that  believed." 
See  here  again,  "in"  is  used  for  "through." 
For  through  them  He  is  shown  to  be  admirable, 
when  He  brings  to  so  much  splendor  those  who 
were  pitiable  and  wretched,  and  who  had  suf- 
fered unnumbered  ills,  and  had  believed.  His 
power  is  shown  then;  because  although  they 
seem  to  be  deserted  here,  yet  nevertheless  they 
there  enjoy  great  glory ;  then  especially  is  shown 
all  the  glory  and  the  power  of  God.     How? 

"  Because  our  testimony  unto  you  was  believed 
in  that  day." 

Ver.  n.  "To  which  end  also  we  pray  always 
for  you." 

That  is,  when  those  are  brought  into  public 
view,  who  have  suffered  unnumbered  ills,  designed 
to  make  them  apostatize  from  the  faith,  and  yet 
have  not  yielded,  but  have  believed,  God  is  glo- 
rified. Then  is  shown  the  glory  of  these  men 
also.  "  Judge  none  blessed,"  it  says,  "  before 
his  death."  (Ecclus.  xi.  28.)  On  this  account 
he  says,  in  that  day  will  be  shown  those  who 
believed.  "To  which  end  also  we  pray,"  he 
says,  "  always  for  you,  that  our  God  may  count 
you  worthy  of  your  calling,  and  fulfill  every 
desire  of  goodness  and  every  work  of  faith, 
with  power." 

"  That  He  may  count  you,"  he  say9,  "  worthy 
of  calling  "  ;  for  they  were  not  called.  Therefore 
he  has  added,  "  and  fulfill  every  desire  of  good- 
ness." Since  he  also  who  was  clothed  in  filthy 
garments,  was  called,  but  did  not  abide  in  his 
calling,  but  for  this  reason  was  the  more  rejected. 
"Of  the  calling,"  namely,  that  to  the  bride- 
chamber.  Since  the  five  virgins  also  were  called. 
"Arise,"   it  says,   "the  bridegroom  cometh." 


(From  Matt.  xxv.  6.)  And  they  prepared  them- 
selves, but  did  not  enter  in.  But  he  speaks  of  that 
other  calling.  Showing  therefore  what  calling 
he  is  speaking  of,  he  has  added,  "And  fulfill 
every  desire  of  goodness  and  every  work  of 
faith,  with  power."  This  is  the  calling,  he  says, 
that  we  seek.  See  how  gently  he  takes  them 
down.  For  that  they  may  not  be  rendered  vain 
by  the  excess  of  commendation,  as  if  they  had 
done  great  deeds,  and  may  not  become  slothful, 
he  shows  that  something  still  is  wanting  to  them, 
so  long  as  they  are  in  this  life.  Which  also  he 
said  in  his  Episde  to  the  Hebrews.  "  Ye  have 
not  yet  resisted  unto  blood,  striving  against  sin." 
(Heb.  xii.  4.)  "Unto  all  wellpleasing,"  he  says, 
that  is,  His  gratification,  persuasion,  full  assur- 
ance. That  is,  that  the  persuasion *  of  God  may 
be  fulfilled,  that  nothing  may  be  wanting  to  you, 
that  you  may  be  so,  as  He  wills.  "  And  every 
work  of  faith,"  he  says,  "with  power."  What 
is  this?  The  patient  endurance  of  persecutions, 
that  we  may  not  faint,  he  says. 

Ver.  12.  "That  the  name  of  our  Lord  Jesus 
Christ  may  be  glorified  in  you,  and  ye  in  Him, 
according  to  the  grace  of  our  God  and  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ." 

He  spoke  there  of  glory,  he  speaks  of  it  also 
here.  He  said,  that  they  are  glorified,  so  that 
they  might  even  boast.  He  said,  what  was 
much  more,  that  they  also  glorify  God.  He 
said,  that  they  will  receive  that  glory.  But  here 
too  he  means ;  For  the  Master  being  glorified, 
the  servants  also  are  glorified.  For  those  who 
glorify  their  Master,  are  much  more  glorified 
themselves,  both  by  that  very  thing,  and  apart 
from  it.  For  tribulation  for  the  sake  of  Christ 
is  glory,  and  that  thing  he  everywhere  calls 
glory.  And  by  how  much  the  more  we  suffer 
anything  dishonorable,  so  much  the  more  illus- 
trious we  become.  Then  again  showing  that 
this  also  itself  is  of  God,  he  says,  "  according 
to  the  grace  of  our  God  and  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ " ;  that  is,  this  grace  He  Himself  has 
given  us,  that  He  may  be  glorified  in  us,  and 
that  He  may  glorify  us  in  Him.  How  is  He 
glorified  in  us?  Because  we  prefer  nothing 
before  Him.  How  are  we  glorified  in  Him? 
Because  we  have  received  power  from  Him,  so 
that  we  do  not  at  all  yield  to  the  evils  that  are 
brought  upon  us.  For  when  temptation  happens, 
at  the  same  time  God  is  glorified,  and  we  too. 
For  they  glorify  Him,  because  He  has  so  nerved 
us ;  they  admire  us,  because  we  have  rendered 
ourselves  worthy.  And  all  these  things  are  done 
by  the  grace  of  God. 

Chap.  ii.  1,  2.  "Now  we  beseech  you, 
brethren,  touching  the  coming  of  our  Lord 
Jesus  Christ,  and  our  gathering  together  unto 

• 

1  Downes  explains  this*  "  that  which  will  persuade,  i.e.  satisfy 
God."    The  word  is  usually  put  for  "  determination." 


386 


WORKS   OF   ST.    CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  III. 


Him  ;  to  the  end  that  ye  be  not  quickly  shaken 
from  your  mind." 

When  the  Resurrection  will  be,  he  has  not 
said,  but  that  it  will  not  be  now,  he  has  said. 
"  And  our  gathering  together  unto  Him."  This 
also  is  no  little  matter.  See  how  the  exhorta- 
tion also  is  again  accompanied  with  commen- 
dation and  encouragement,  in  that  He  and  all 
the  Saints  will  certainly  appear  with  us.  Here 
he  is  discoursing  concerning  the  resurrection 
and  our  gathering  together.  For  these  things 
will  happen  at  the  same  time.  He  raises  up 
their  minds.  "That  ye  be  not  quickly  shaken," 
he  says,  "  nor  yet  be  troubled,  either  by  spirit, 
or  by  word,  or  by  epistle  as  from  us,  as  that 
the  day  of  the  Lord  is  now  present." 

Here  he  seems  to  me  to  intimate  that  certain 
persons  went  about  having  forged  an  Epistle,  as 
if  from  Paul,  and  showing  this,  said  that  the  Day 
of  the  Lord  is  at  hand,  that  thence  they  might 
lead  many  into  error.  Therefore  that  they 
might  not  be  deceived,  Paul  gives  security  by 
the  things  he  writes,  and  says,  "  be  not  troubled, 
either  by  spirit,  or  by  word  "  :  and  this  is  the 
meaning  of  what  he  says :  Though  any  one 
having  the  spirit  of  prophecy  should  say  this, 
believe  it  not.  For  when  I  was  with  you  I  told 
you  these  things,  so  that  you  ought  not  to  change 
your  persuasion  from  the  things  which  you  were 
taught.  Or  thus,  "  by  spirit  "  :  so  he  calls  the 
false  prophets,  speaking  what  they  spoke  by  an 
unclean  spirit.  For  these  men,  willing  the  more 
to  be  believed,  not  only  endeavored  to  deceive 
by  persuasive  words,  (for  this  he  shows,  saying, 
"or  by  word,")  but  they  also  showed  a  forged 
letter,  as  from  Paul,  declaring  the  same  thing. 
Wherefore  pointing  out  this  also,  he  has  added, 
"or  by  letter  as  from  us."  Having  therefore 
secured  them  on  every  side,  he  thus  sets  forth 
his  own  doctrine,  and  says  : * 

Ver.  3,  4.  "  Let  no  man  beguile  you  in  any 
wise  :  for  it  will  not  be,  except  the  falling  away 
come  first,  and  the  man  of  sin  be  revealed,  the 
son  of  perdition,  he  that  opposeth  and  exalteth 
himself  against  all  that  is  called  God  or  that  is 
worshiped ;  so  that  he  sitteth  in  the  temple  of 
God,  setting  himself  forth  as  God." 

Here  he  discourses  concerning  the  Antichrist, 
and  reveals  great  mysteries.  What  is  "  the  fall- 
ing away"?2  He  calls  him  Apostasy,  as  being 
about  to  destroy  many,  and  make  them  fall 
away.  So  that  if  it  were  possible,  He  says,  the 
very  Elect  should  be  offended.  (From  Matt. 
xxiv.  24.)  And  he  calls  him  "  the  man  of  sin." 
For  he  shall  do  numberless  mischiefs,  and  shall 


1  [The  paragraph  that  here  ends  is  wanting  in  a  group  of  docu- 
ments which  for  this  epistle  is  very  generally  correct.  The  contents 
of  this  paragraph  give  no  decisive  indication  as  to  genuineness.  — 
J.  A.  B.] 

1  [The  Greek  word  translated  "  falling  away"  is  that  which  we 
borrow  as  apostasy. — J.  A.  B.] 


cause  others  to  do  them.  But  he  calls  him  "  the 
son  of  perdition,"  because  he  is  also  to  be  de- 
stroyed. But  who  is  he  ?  Is  it  then  Satan  ?  By 
no  means  ;  but  some  man,  that  admits  his  fully 
working  in  him.  For  he  is  a  man.  "  And  ex- 
alteth himself  against  all  that  is  called  God  or  is 
worshiped."  For  he  will  not  introduce  idolatry, 
but  will  be  a  kind  of  opponent  to  God  ;  he  will 
abolish  all  the  gods,  and  will  order  men  to  wor- 
ship him  instead  of  God,  and  he  will  be  seated 
in  the  temple  of  God,  not  that  in  Jerusalem 
only,  but  also  in  every  Church.  "  Setting  him- 
self forth,"  he  says ;  he  does  not  say,  saying  it, 
but  endeavoring  to  show  it.  For  he  will  perform 
great  works,  and  will  show  wonderful  signs. 

Ver.  5.  "  Remember  ye  not,  that  when  I  was 
yet  with  you,  I  told  you  these  things  ?  " 

Seest  thou  that  it  is  necessary  continually  to 
say  the  same  things,  and  to  enlarge  upon  them 
in  the  same  words?  For  behold,  they  heard 
him  saying  these  things  when  present,  and  again 
they  had  need  to  be  reminded  of  them.  For 
as  when  they  had  heard  concerning  afflictions, 
"For  verily,"  he  says,  "when  we  were  with  you, 
we  told  you  beforehand  that  we  are  to  suffer 
affliction  "  ( 1  Thess.  iii.  4)  ;  they  nevertheless 
forgot  it,  and  he  confirms  them  again  by  letters  ; 
so  also  having  heard  concerning  the  Coming  of 
Christ,  they  again  needed  letters  to  compose 
them.  He  therefore  reminds  them,  showing 
that  he  speaks  of  nothing  strange,  but  what  he  - 
had  always  said. 

For  as  in  the  case  of  husbandmen,  the  seeds 
are  indeed  cast  into  the  earth  once  for  all,  yet 
do  not  constantly  remain,  but  require  much 
preparation  withal,  and  if  they  do  not  break  up 
the  earth,  and  cover  over  the  seeds  sown,  they 
sow  for  the  birds  that  gather  grain ;  so  we  also, 
unless  by  constant  remembrance  we  cover  over 
what  has  been  sown,  have  but  cast  it  all  into  the 
air.  For  both  the  devil  carries  it  away,  and  our 
sloth  destroys  it,  and  the  sun  dries  it  up,  and  the 
rain  washes  it  away,  and  the  thorns  choke  it :  so 
that  it  is  not  sufficient  after  once  sowing  it  to 
depart,  but  there  is  need  of  much  assiduity, 
driving  off  the  birds,  rooting  up  the  thorns,  fill- 
ing up  the  stony  ground  with  much  earth,  check- 
ing, and  fencing  off,  and  taking  away  everything 
injurious.  But  in  the  case  of  the  earth  all  de- 
pends upon  the  husbandman,  for  it  is  a  lifeless 
subject,  and  prepared  only  to  be  passive.  But 
in  the  spiritual  soil  it  is  quite  otherwise.  All  is 
not  the  teachers'  part,  but  half  at  least,  if  not 
more,  that  of  the  disciples.  It  is  our  part  indeed 
to  cast  the  seed,  but  yours  to  do  the  things 
spoken  for  your  recollection,  by  your  works  to 
show  the  fruits,  to  pull  up  the  thorns  by  the 
roots. 

For  wealth  truly  is  a  thorn,  bearing  no  fruit, 
both  uncomely  to  the  sight,  and  unpleasant  for 


Homily  III.] 


HOMILIES  ON   THESSALONIANS. 


387 


use,  injuring  those  that  meddle  with  it,  not  only 
not  itself  bearing  fruit,  but  even  hindering  that 
which  was  shooting  forth.  Such  is  wealth.  It 
not  only  does  not  bear  eternal  fruit,  but  it  even 
hinders  those  who  wish  to  gain  it.  Thorns  are 
the  food  of  irrational  camels ;  they  are  devoured 
and  consumed  by  fire,  being  useful  for  nothing. 
Such  also  is  wealth,  useful  for  nothing,  but  to 
kindle  the  furnace,  to  light  up  The  Day  that 
burns  as  an  oven,  to  nourish  passions  void  of 
reason,  revenge  and  anger.  For  such  is  also  the 
camel  that  feeds  on  thorns.  For  it  is  said  by 
those  who  are  acquainted  with  such  things,  that 
there  is  no  animal  so  implacable,  so  sulky  and 
revengeful,  as  a  camel.  Such  is  wealth.  It 
nourishes  the  unreasonable  passions  of  the  soul, 
but  it  pierces  and  wounds  the  rational,  as  is  the 
case  with  thorns.  This  plant  is  hard  and  rough, 
and  grows  up  of  itself. 

Let  us  see  how  it  grows  up,  that  we  may  root 
it  out.  It  grows  in  places  that  are  precipitous, 
stony  and  dry,  where  there  is  no  moisture. 
When  therefore  any  one  is  rough  and  precipitous, 
that  is  unmerciful,  the  thorn  grows  in  him.  But 
when  the  sons  of  husbandmen  wish  to  root  them 
up,  they  do  it  not  with  iron.  How  then  ?  Hav- 
ing set  fire  to  it,  they  in  that  way  extract  all  the 
bad  quality  of  the  land.  For  since  it  is  not 
enough  to  cut  away  the  upper  part,  whilst  the 
root  remains  below,  nor  even  to  extirpate  the 
root,  (for  it  remains  in  the  earth  from  its  bad 
quality,  and,  as  when  some  pestilence  has 
assailed  the  body,  there  are  still  left  the  remains 
of  it,)  the  fire  from  above,  drawing  up  all  that 
moisture  of  the  thorns,1  like  some  poison,  extracts 
it  by  means  of  the  heat  from  the  bowels  of  the 
earth.  For  as  the  cupping  glass  placed  upon 
the  part  draws  all  the  disorder  to  itself,  so  also 
the  fire  draws  off  all  the  base  quality  that  was  in 
the  thorns,  and  makes  the  land  pure. 

On  what  account  then  do  I  say  these  things  ? 
Because  it  behoves  you  to  purge  off  all  affection 
for  riches.  With  us  also  there  is  a  fire  that 
draws  this  bad  quality  from  the  soul ;  I  mean 
that  of  the  Spirit.  This  if  we  let  work  on 
them,  we  shall  be  able  not  only  to  dry  up  the 
thorns,  but  also  the  humor  from  them,  since 
if  they  be  deeply  fixed,  all  is  rendered  vain. 
For  mark,  Has  a  rich  man  entered  here,  or 
also  a  rich  woman?  She  does  not  regard  how 
she  shall  hear  the  oracles  of  God,  but  how 
she  shall  make  a  show,  how  she  shall  sit  with 
pomp,  how  with  much  glory,  how  she  shall  sur* 
pass  all  other  women  in  the  costliness  of  her 
garments,  and  render  herself  more  dignified 
both  by  her  dress,  and  look,  and  gait.  And  all 
her  care  and  concern  is,  Did  such  a  woman  see 


»  So  Virgil:  — 

"  Sive  illis  omne  per  ignem 
Excoquitur  vitium  atque  exudat  inutilis numor."  —  Georg.  i.  87, 88. 


me  ?  did  she  admire  me  ?  Is  my  beauty  hand- 
somely set  off?  so  that  her  garments  may  not 
rot,  nor  be  rent ;  and  about  this  is  all  her  care. 
In  like  manner  also  the  rich  man  enters,  mean- 
ing to  exhibit  himself  to  the  poor  man,  and  to 
strike  him  with  awe  by  the  garments  which  are 
about  him,  and  by  the  number  of  his  slaves,  who 
also  stand  round,  driving  off  the  crowd.  But  he 
from  his  great  pride  does  not  condescend  even 
to  do  this,  but  considers  it  a  work  so  unworthy 
of  a  gentleman,  that  although  excessively  puffed 
up,  he  cannot  bear  to  do  it,  but  commits  it  to 
his  slaves.  For  to  do  this  requires  truly  servile 
and  impudent  manners.  Then  when  he  is  seated, 
the  cares  of  his  house  immediately  intrude  them- 
selves, distracting  him  on  every  side.  The  pride 
that  possesses  his  soul  overflows.  He  thinks 
that  he  does  a  favor  both  to  us,  and  to  the  peo- 
ple, and  perhaps  even  to  God,  because  he  has 
entered  into  the  house  of  God.  But  he  who  is 
thus  inflamed,  how  shall  he  ever  be  cured  ? 

Tell  me  then,  if  any  one  should  go  to  the  shop 
of  a  physician,  and  not  ask  a  favor  of  the  physi- 
cian, but  think  that  he  was  doing  him  a  favor, 
and  declining  to  request  a  medicine  for  his 
wound,  should  concern  himself  about  his  gar- 
ments ;  would  he  go  away  having  received  any 
benefit?  I  think  not  indeed.  But,  with  your 
leave,  I  will  tell  you  the  cause  of  all  these  things. 
They  think  when  they  enter  in  here,  that  they 
enter  into  our  presence,  they  think  that  what 
they  hear  they  hear  from  us.  They  do  not  lay 
to  heart,  they  do  not  consider,  that  they  are 
entering  into  the  presence  of  God,  that  it  is  He 
who  addresses  them.  For  when  the  Reader 
standing  up  says,  "Thus  saith  the  Lord,"  and 
the  Deacon  stands  and  imposes  silence  on  all, 
he  does  not  say  this  as  doing  honor  to  the  Reader, 
but  to  Him  who  speaks  to  all  through  him.  If 
they  knew  that  it  was  God  who  through  His 
prophet  speaks  these  things,  they  would  cast 
away  all  their  pride.  For  if  when  rulers  are 
addressing  them,  they  do  not  allow  their  minds 
to  wander,  much  less  would  they,  when  God  is 
speaking.  We  are  ministers,  beloved.  We 
speak  not  our  own  things,  but  the  things  of  God, 
letters  coming  from  heaven  are  every  day  read. 

Tell  me  then,  I  beseech  you,  if  now,  when  we 
are  all  present,  some  one  entered,  having  a  gold- 
en girdle,  and  drawing  himself  up,  and  with  an 
air  of  consequence  said  that  he  was  sent  by  the 
king  that  is  on  the  earth,  and  that  he  brought 
letters  to  the  whole  city  concerning  matters  of 
importance ;  would  you  not  then  be  all  turned 
towards  him  ?  Would  you  not,  without  any  com- 
mand from  a  deacon,  observe  a  profound  silence  ? 
Truly  I  think  so.  For  I  have  often  heard  letters 
from  kings  read  here.  Then  if  any  one  comes 
from  a  king,  you  all  attend  ;  and  does  a  Prophet 
come  from  God,  and  speak  from  heaven,  and 


388 


WORKS   OF   ST.   CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  IV. 


no  one  attend?  Or  do  you  not  believe  that 
these  things  are  messages  from  God?  These 
are  letters  sent  from  God ;  therefore  let  us  enter 
with  becoming  reverence  into  the  Churches, 
and  let  us  hearken  with  fear  to  the  things  here 
said. 

What  do  I  come  in  for,  you  say,  if  I  do  not 
hear  some  one  discoursing?  This  is  the  ruin 
and  destruction  of  all.  For  what  need  of  a  per- 
son to  discourse?  This  necessity  arises  from 
our  sloth.  Wherefore  any  necessity  for  a  homily  ? 
All  things  are  clear  and  open  that  are  in  the 
divine  Scriptures;  the  necessary  things  are  all 
plain.  But  because  ye  are  hearers  for  pleasure's 
sake,  for  that  reason  also  you  seek  these  things. 
For  tell  me,  with  what  pomp  of  words  did  Paul 
speak?  and  yet  he  converted  the  world.  Or 
with  what  the  unlettered  Peter?  But  I  know 
not,  you  say,  the  things  that  are  contained  in 
the  Scriptures.  Why?  For  are  they  spoken 
in  Hebrew?  Are  they  in  Latin,  or  in  foreign 
tongues?  Are  they  not  in  Greek?  But  they 
are  expressed  obscurely,  you  say.  What  is  it 
that  is  obscure  ?  Tell  me.  Are  there  not  his- 
tories? For  (of  course)  you  know  the  plain 
parts,  in  that  you  enquire  about  the  obscure. 
There  are  numberless  histories  in  the  Scriptures. 
Tell  me  one  of  these.  But  you  cannot.  These 
things  are  an  excuse,  and  mere  words.  Every 
day,  you  say,  one  hears  the  same  things.  Tell 
me,  then,  do  you  not  hear  the  same  things  in 
the  theaters  ?  Do  you  not  see  the  same  things 
in  the  race-course  ?  Are  not  all  things  the  same  ? 
Is  it  not  always  the  same  sun  that  rises  ?  Is  it 
not  the  same  food  that  we  use  ?  I  should  like 
to  ask  you,  since  you  say  that  you  every  day 


hear  the  same  things ;  tell  me,  from  what  Prophet 
was  the  passage  that  was  read?  from  what 
Apostle,  or  what  Epistle  ?  But  you  cannot  tell 
me  —  you  seem  to  hear  strange  things.  When 
therefore  you  wish  to  be  slothful,  you  say  that 
they  are  the  same  things.  But  when  you  are 
questioned,  you  are  in  the  case  of  one  who 
never  heard  them.  If  they  are  the  same,  you 
ought  to  know  them.  But  you  are  ignorant  of 
them. 

This  state  of  things  is  worthy  of  lamentation 
—  of  lamentation  and  complaint :  for  the  coiner 
coineth  but  in  vain.1     For  this  you  ought  more 
especially  to  attend,  because  they  are  the  same 
things,  because  we  give  you  no  labor,  nor  speak 
things  that  are  strange  or  variable.     What  then, 
since  you  say,  that  those  are  the  same  things, 
but  our  discourses  are  not  the  same  things,  but 
we  always  speak  things  that  are  new  to  you,  do 
you  pay  heed  to  these  ?    By  no  means.     But  if 
we  say,  Why  do  you  not  retain  even  these? 
"  We  hear  them  but  once,"  you  say,  "  and  how 
can  we  retain  them  ?  "     If  we  say,  Why  do  ye 
not  attend  to  those  other  things  ?    "  The  same 
things,"  you  say,  "  are  always  said  n  —  and  every 
way  these  are  words  of  sloth  and  excuse.    But 
they  will  not  always  serve,  but  there  will  be  a 
time  when  we  shall  lament  in  vain  and  without 
effect.    Which  may  God  forbid,  and  grant  that 
having  repented  here,  and  attending  with  under- 
standing and  godly  fear  to  the  things  spoken, 
we  may  both  be  urged  on  to  the  due  perform- 
ance of  good  works,  and  may  amend  our  own 
lives  with  all  diligence,  that  we  may  be  able  to 
obtain  the  blessings  promised  to  those  who  love 
Him,  by  the  grace  and  lovingkindness,  &c. 


HOMILY    IV. 

2  Thessalonians  ii.  6-9. 


u  And  now  ye  know  that  which  restraineth,  to  the  end 
that  he  may  be  revealed  in  his  own  season.  For  the 
mystery  of  lawlessness  doth  already  work :  only  there 
is  one.  that  restraineth  now,  until  he  be  taken  out  of 
the  way.  And  then  shall  be  revealed  the  lawless 
one,  whom  the  Lord  Jesus  shall  slay  with  the  breath 
of  His  mouth,  and  bring  to  nought  by  the  manifes- 
tation of  His  coming:  even  he  whose  coming  is 
according  to  the  working  of  Satan." 

One  may  naturally  enquire,  what  is  that  which 
withholdeth,  and  after  that  would  know,  why 
Paul  expresses  it  so  obscurely.  What  then  is  it 
that  withholdeth,  that  is,  hindereth  him  from  be- 
ing revealed?  Some  indeed  say,  the  grace  of 
the  Spirit,  but  others  the  Roman  empire,  to 


whom  I  most  of  all  accede.  Wherefore?  Be- 
cause if  he  meant  to  say  the  Spirit,  he  would 
not  have  spoken  obscurely,  but  plainly,  that  even 
now  the  grace  of  the  Spirit,  that  is  the  gifts, 
withhold  him.  And  otherwise  he  ought  now  to 
have  come,  if  he  was  about  to  come  when  the 
gifts  ceased ;  for  they  have  long  since  ceased. 
But  because  he  said  this  of  the  Roman  empire, 
he  naturally  glanced  at  it,  and  speaks  covertly 
and  darkly.  For  he  did  not  wish  to  bring  upon 
himself  superfluous  enmities,  and  useless  dan- 
gers.    For  if  he  had  said  that  after  a  little  while 

1  on  tls  Ktvbv  apyvpoKovo*  apyvpoKovtl.    [Perhaps,  rather,  "tha 
hammerer  (of  silver)  hammereth  upon  nothing."  — J.  A.  B.] 


.Homily  IV.] 


HOMILIES   ON   THESSALONIANS. 


389 


the  Roman  empire  would  be  dissolved,  they 
would  immediately  have  even  overwhelmed  him, 
as  a  pestilent  person,  and  alj  the  faithful,  as  liv- 
ing and  warring  to  this  end.  And  he  did  not 
say  that  it  will  be  quickly,  although  he  is  always 
saying  it — but  what?  "that  he  may  be  revealed 
in  his  own  season,"  he  says, 

"  For  the  mystery  of  lawlessness  doth  already 
work."  He  speaks  here  of  Nero,  as  if  he  were 
the  type  of  Antichrist.  For  he  too  wished  to 
be  thought  a  god.  And  he  has  well  said,  "  the 
mystery  "  ;  that  is,  it  worketh  not  openly,  as  the 
other,  nor  without  shame.  For  if  there  was 
found  a  man  before  that  time,  he  means,  who 
was  not  much  behind  Antichrist  in  wickedness, 
what  wonder,  if  there  shall  now  be  one  ?  But 
he  did  not  also  wish  to  point  him  out  plainly : 
and  this  not  from  cowardice,  but  instructing  us 
not  to  bring  upon  ourselves  unnecessary  enmi- 
ties, when  there  is  nothing  to  call  for  it.  So  in- 
deed he  also  says  here.  "  Only  there  is  one  that 
restraineth  now,  until  he  be  taken  out  of  the 
way,"  that  is,  when  the  Roman  empire  is  taken 
out  of  the  way,  then  he  shall  come.  And  natu- 
rally. For  as  long  as  the  fear  of  this  empire 
lasts,  no  one  will  willingly  exalt  himself,  but  when 
that  is  dissolved,  he  will  attack  the  anarchy,  and 
endeavor  to  seize  upon  the  government  both  of 
man  and  of  God.  For  as  the  kingdoms  before 
this  were  destroyed,  for  example,  that  of  the 
Medes  by  the  Babylonians,  that  of  the  Babylo- 
nians by  the  Persians,  that  of  the  Persians  by  the 
Macedonians,  that  of  the  Macedonians  by  the 
Romans  :  so  will  this  also  be  by  the  Antichrist, 
and  he  by  Christ,  and  it  will  no  longer  with- 
hold. And  these  things  Daniel  delivered  to  us 
with  great  clearness. 

"  And  then,"  he  says,  "  shall  be  revealed  the 
lawless  one."  And  what  after  this  ?  The  con- 
solation is  at  hand.  "Whom  the  Lord  Jesus 
shall  slay  with  the  breath  of  His  mouth,  and 
bring  to  nought  by  the  manifestation  of  His 
coming,  even  he  whose  coming  is  according  to 
the  working  of  Satan." 

For  as  fire  merely  coming  on  even  before  its 
arrival  makes  torpid  and  consumes  the  little  ani- 
mals that  are  afar  off;  so  also  Christ,  by  His 
commandment  only,  and  Coming.  It  is  enough 
for  Him  to  be  present,  and  all  these  things  are 
destroyed.  He  will  put  a  stop  to  the  deceit, 
by  only  appearing.  Then  who  is  this,  whose 
coming  is  after  the  working  of  Satan,  "  With  all 
power,"  he  says,  "  and  signs  and  lying  wonders." 
These  things  he  foretold,  that  the  men  of  that 
time  might  not  be  deceived.  That  is,  he  will 
display  all  power,  but  nothing  true,  but  for  de- 
ceit. "And  lying  wonders,"  he  says,  that  is, 
false,  or  leading  to  falsehood. 

Ver.  10.  "And  with  all  deceit  of  unrighteous- 
ness for  them  that  are  perishing." 


Why  then,  you  say,  did  God  permit  this  to 
be  ?  and  what  dispensation  is  this  ?  And  what 
is  the  advantage  of  his  coming,  if  it  takes  place 
for  the  ruin  of  our  race?  Fear  not,  beloved, 
but  hear  Him  saying,  "  In  them  that  are  perish- 
ing," he  hath  strength,  who,  even  if  he  had  not 
come,  would  not  have  believed.  What  then  is 
the  advantage  ?  That  these  very  men  who  are 
perishing  will  be  put  to  silence.  How?  Be- 
cause both  if  he  had  come,  and  if  he  had  not 
come,  they  would  not  have  believed  in  Christ ; 
He  comes  therefore  to  convict  them.  For  that 
they  may  not  have  occasion  to  say,  that  since 
Christ  said  that  He  was  God,  —  although  He 
nowhere  said  this  openly,  —  but  since  those  who 
came  after  proclaimed  it,  we  have  not  believed. 
Because  we  have  heard  that  there  is  One  God 
from  whom  are  all  things,  therefore  we  have  not 
believed.  This  their  pretext  then  Antichrist  will 
take  away.  For  when  he  comes,  and  comes 
commanding  nothing  good,  but  all  things  unlaw- 
ful, and  is  yet  believed  from  false  signs  alone, 
he  will  stop  their  mouths.  For  if  thou  believest 
not  in  Christ,  much  more  oughtest  thou  not  to 
believe  in  Antichrist.  For  the  former  said  that 
He  was  sent  from  the  Father,  but  the  latter  the 
contrary.  For  this  reason  Christ  said,  "  I  am 
come  in  My  Father's  name,  and  ye  receive  Me 
not :  if  another  shall  come  in  his  own  name, 
him  ye  will  receive."  (John  v.  43.)  But  we 
have  seen  signs,  you  say.  But  many  and  great 
signs  were  also  wrought  in  the  case  of  Christ ; 
much  more  therefore  ought  ye  to  have  believed 
in  Him.  And  yet  many  things  were  predicted 
concerning  this  one,  that  he  is  the  lawless  one,  that 
he  is  the  son  of  perdition,  that  his  coming  is 
after  the  working  of  Satan.  But  the  contrary 
concerning  the  other,  that  He  is  the  Saviour, 
that  He  brings  with  Him  unnumbered  blessings. 

Ver.  10,  11,  12.  "  For  because  they  received 
not  the  love  of  the  truth,  that  they  might  be 
saved;  for  this  cause  God  will  send  them  a 
working  of  error,  that  they  should  believe  a  lie : 
that  they  all  might  be  judged  who  believed  not 
the  truth,  but  had  pleasure  in  unrighteousness." 

"  That  they  might  be  judged."  He  does  not 
say,  that  they  might  be  punished ;  for  even  be- 
fore this  they  were  about  to  be  punished ;  but 
"that  they  might  be  condemned,"  that  is,  at 
the  dreadful  Seat  of  Judgment,  in  order  that 
they  might  be  without  excuse.  "  Who  believed 
not  the  truth,  but  had  pleasure  in  unrighteous- 
ness." He  calls  Christ, "  the  Love  of  the  Truth." 
"  For  because,' '  says  he,  "  they  received  not  the 
love  of  the  truth."  For  He  was  both,  and  came 
for  the  sake  of  both,  both  as  loving  men,  and 
on  behalf  of  things  that  were  true.1 

"  But  had  pleasure,"  he  says,  "  in  unrighteous- 

1  Compare  John  xviii.  37. 


390 


WORKS   OF   ST.    CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  IV, 


ness."  For  he  came  to  the  destruction  of  men, 
and  to  injure  them.  For  what  will  he  not  then 
work  ?  He  will  change  and  confound  all  things, 
both  by  his  commandments,  and  by  the  fear  of 
him.  He  will  be  terrible  in  every  way,  from  his 
power,  from  his  cruelty,  from  his  unlawful  com- 
mandments. 

But  fear  not.  "  In  those  that  perish  "  he  will 
have  his  strength.1  For  Elijah  too  will  then 
come  to  give  confidence  to  the  faithful,  and 
this  Christ  says ;  "  Elijah  cometh,  and  shall 
restore  all  things."  (Matt.  xvii.  n.)  There- 
fore it  is  said,  "  In  the  spirit  and  power  of 
Elijah."  (Luke  i.  17.)  For  he  neither  wrought 
signs  nor  wonders,  as  Elijah  did.  For  "  John/1 
it  is  said,  "  did  no  miracle,  but  all  things  which 
John  spake  of  this  Man  were  true.,,  How  then 
was  it  "in  the  spirit  and  power  of  Elijah " ? 
That  is,  he  will  take  upon  him  the  same  minis- 
try. As  the  one  was  the  forerunner  of  His  first 
Coming,  so  will  the  other  be  of  His  second  and 
glorious  Coming,  and  for  this  he  is  reserved. 
Let  us  not  therefore  fear.  He  has  calmed  the 
minds  of  the  hearers.  He  causes  them  no 
longer  to  think  present  things  dreadful,  but 
worthy  of  thankfulness.  Wherefore  he  has 
added, 

Ver.  13.  "But  we  are  bound  to  give  thanks 
alway  to  God  for  you,  brethren  beloved  of  the 
Lord,  for  that  God  chose  you  from  the  begin- 
ning unto  salvation,  in  sanctification  of  the  Spirit 
and  belief  of  the  truth." 

How  unto  salvation?  By  sanctifying  you 
through  the  Spirit.  For  these  are  the  things 
that  are  the  efficient  causes8  of  our  salvation. 
'It  is  nowhere  of  works,  nowhere  of  righteous 
deeds,  but  through  belief  of  the  truth.  Here 
again,  "in"  is  used  for  "through."  "And 
through  sanctification  of  the  Spirit,"  he  says, 

Ver.  14.  "  Whereunto  He  called  you  through 
our  Gospel,  to  the  obtaining  of  the  glory  of  our 
Lord  Jesus  Christ." 

This  too  is  no  little  thing,  if  Christ  considers 
our  salvation  His  glory.  For  it  is  the  glory  of 
the  Friend  of  man  that  they  that  are  saved 
should  be  many.  Great  then  is  our  Lord,  if  the 
Holy  Spirit  so  desires  our  salvation.  Why  did 
he  not  say  faith  first  ?  Because  even  after  sancti- 
fication we  have  yet  need  of  much  faith,  that  we 
may  not  be  shaken.  Seest  thou  how  He  shows 
that  nothing  is  of  themselves,  but  all  of  God  ? 

Ver.  15.  "So  then,  brethren,  stand  fast,  and 
hold  the  traditions  which  ye  were  taught,  whether 
by  word,  or  by  Epistle  of  ours." 

Hence  it  is  manifest,  that  they  did  not  deliver 
all  things  by  Epistle,  but  many  things  also  un- 
written, and  in  like  manner  both  the  one  and  the 

1  He  seems  only  to  refer  to  the  words  of  ver.  10,  with  the  general 
sense  of  the  context. 

*  Tot  (rvrcKTiKa ;  lit.  "  the  things  that  keep  together." 


other  are  worthy  of  credit.  Therefore  let  us 
think  the  tradition  of  the  Church  also  worthy  of 
credit.  It  is  a  tradition,  seek  no  farther.  Here 
he  shows  that  there  were  many  who  were  shaken. 

Ver.  16,  17.  "Now  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ 
Himself,  and  God  our  Father,  which  loved  us, 
and  gave  us  eternal  comfort  and  good  hope 
through  grace,  comfort  your  hearts,  and  stablish 
them  in  every  good  work  and  word." 

Again  a  prayer  after  an  admonition.  For  this 
is  truly  to  benefit.  "  Which  loved  us,"  he  says, 
"and  gave  us  eternal  comfort  and  good  hope 
through  grace."  Where  now  are  those  who  lessen 
the  Son,  because  He  is  named  in  the  grace  of 
the  Laver  after  the  Father?  For,  lo,  here  it  is 
the  contrary.  "  Which  loved  us,"  he  says,  "  and 
gave  us  eternal  comfort."  Of  what  sort  then  is 
this?  Even  the  hope  of  things  future.  Seest 
thou  how  by  the  method  of  prayer  he  stirs  up 
their  mind,  giving  them  the  unspeakable  care  of 
God  for  pledges  and  signs.  "Comfort  your 
heart,"  he  says,  "  in  every  good  work  and  word," 
that  is,  through  every  good  work  and  word. 
For  this  is  the  comfort  of  Christians,  to  do  some- 
thing good  and  pleasing  to  God.  See  how  he 
brings  down  their  spirit.  "  Which  gave  us  com- 
fort," he  says,  "  and  good  hope  through  grace." 
At  the  same  time  he  makes  them  also  full  of 
good  hopes  with  respect  to  future  things.  For 
if  He  has  given  so  many  things  by  grace,  much 
more  things  future.  I  indeed,  he  says,  have 
spoken,  but  the  whole  is  of  God.  "  Stablish  " ; 
confirm  you,  that  you  be  not  shaken,  nor  turned 
aside.  For  this  is  both  His  work  and  ours,  so 
that  it  is  in  the  way  both  of  doctrines,  and  of 
actions.  For  this  is  comfort,  to  be  stablished. 
For  when  any  one  is  not  turned  aside,  he  bears 
all  things,  whatever  may  happen  to  him,  with 
much  longsuffering ;  whereas  if  his  mind  be 
shaken,  he  will  no  longer  perform  any  good  or . 
noble  action,  but  like  one  whose  hands  are  para- 
lyzed, so  also  his  soul  is  shaken,  when  it  is  not 
fully  persuaded  that  it  is  advancing  to  some 
good  end. 

Chap.  iii.  i.  "Finally,  brethren,  pray  for  us, 
that  the  word  of  the  Lord  may  run  and  be  glori- 
fied, even  as  also  it  is  with  you." 

He  indeed  had  prayed  for  them,  that  they 
might  be  stablished ;  and  now  he  asks  of  them, 
entreating  them  to  pray  for  him,  not  that  he  may 
not  incur  danger,  for  to  this  he  was  appointed, 
but  that  "  the  word  of  the  Lord  may  run  and  be 
glorified,  even  as  also  it  is  with  you."  And  the 
request  is  accompanied  with  commendation. 
"  Even  as  also  it  is  with  you." 

Ver.  2.  "  And  that  we  may  be  delivered  from 
unreasonable  and  evil  men;  for  all  have  not 
faith." 

This  is  the  manner  of  one  showing  also  his 
dangers;  as  to  which  especially  he  besought 


Homily  IV.] 


HOMILIES   ON  THESSALONIANS. 


391 


them.  "  From  unreasonable  and  evil  men,"  he 
says, "  for  all  have  not  faith."  Thus  he  is  speak- 
ing of  those  who  contradict  the  Preaching,  who 
oppose  and  contend  against  the  doctrines.  For 
this  he  has  intimated  by  saying,  "  For  all  men 
have  not  faith."  And  here  he  seems  to  me  not 
to  glance  at  dangers,  but  at  the  men  who  con- 
tradicted and  hindered  his  word,  as  did  Alexan- 
der the  copper-smith.  For  he  says,  "  he  gready 
withstood  our  words."  (2  Tim.  iv.  15.)  That 
is,  there  are  some  to  whom  it  is  given.  As  if 
he  were  speaking  of  a  paternal  inheritance,  that 
"  it  is  not  for  all  to  serve  in  the  Palace."  And 
at  the  same  time  he  also  excites  them,  as  already 
having  such  ground  of  confidence  as  to  be  able 
both  to  deliver  their  Teacher  from  dangers,  and 
to  facilitate  his  preaching. 

Therefore  we  also  say  the  same  things.  Let 
no  one  condemn  us  of  arrogance,  nor  from  an 
excessive  humility  deprive  us  of  so  great  an 
assistance.  For  neither  do  we  speak  from  the 
same  motive  from  which  Paul  spoke.  For  he 
indeed  said  these  things  from  a  wish  to  comfort 
his  disciples;  but  we  to  reap  some  great  and 
good  fruit.  And  we  are  very  confident,  if  ye 
all  be  willing  with  one  mind  to  stretch  forth 
your  hands  to  God  in  behalf  of  our  littleness, 
that  you  will  succeed  in  all  things.  Thus  let  us 
make  war  with  our  enemies  with  prayers  and 
supplications.  For  if  thus  the  ancients  made 
war  with  men  in  arms,  much  more  ought  we  so 
to  make  war  with  men  without  arms.  So  Heze- 
kiah  triumphed  over  the  Assyrian  king,  so  Moses 
over  Amalek,  so  Samuel  over  the  men  of  Asca- 
lon,  so  Israel1  over  the  thirty-two  kings.  If 
where  there  was  need  of  arms,  and  of  battle 
array,  and  of  fighting,  they,  leaving  their  arms, 
had  recourse  to  prayer ;  here  where  the  matter 
has  to  be  accomplished  by  prayers  alone,  does 
it  not  much  more  behove  us  to  pray  ? 

But  there,  you  say,  the  rulers  entreated  for 
the  people,  but  you  request  the  people  to  en- 
treat for  the  ruler.  I  also  know  it.  For  those 
under  rule  at  that  time  were  wretched  and  mean 
persons.  Wherefore  they  were  saved  by  the 
claims  and  the  virtue  of  their  commander  alone  ; 
but  now,  when  the  grace  of  God  has  prevailed, 
and  we  shall  find  among  those  who  are  ruled 
many  or  rather  the  greater  part  excelling  their 
ruler  in  a  great  degree;  do  not  deprive  us  of 
this  succor,  raise  up  our  hands  that  they  may 
not  be  faint,  open  our  mouth  for  us,  that  it  may 
not  be  closed.  Entreat  God  —  for  this  cause 
entreat  Him.  It  is  in  our  behalf  indeed  that  it 
is  done,  but  it  is  wholly  for  your  sakes.  For 
we  are  appointed  for  your  advantage,  and  for 
your  interests  we  are  concerned.  Entreat  every 
one  of  you,  both  privately  and  publicly.     Mark 

1  [Fi«ld  reads  "Joshua,"  after  one  MS.,  but  the  correction  is  too 
obvious. — J.  A.  B.J 


Paul  saying,  "  That  for  the  gift  bestowed  upon 
us  by  means  of  many,  thanks  may  be  given  by 
many  persons  on  our  behalf"  (2  Cor.  i.  11)  ; 
that  is,  that  He  may  give  grace  to  many.  If  in 
the  case  of  men,  the  people  coming  forward  ask 
a  pardon  for  persons  condemned  and  led  away 
to  execution,  and  the  king  from  regard  to  the 
multitude  revokes  the  sentence,  much  more  will 
God  be  influenced  by  regard  to  you,  not  by 
your  multitude,  but  your  virtue. 

For  violent  is  the  enemy  we  have.  For  each 
of  you  indeed  anxiously  thinks  of  his  own  in- 
terests, but  we  the  concerns  of  all  together.  We 
stand  in  the  part  of  the  battle  that  is  pressed  on. 
The  devil  is  more  violently  armed  against  us. 
For  in  wars  too,  he  that  is  on  the  opposite  side 
endeavors  before  all  others  to  overthrow  the 
general.  For  this  reason  all  his  fellow-com- 
batants hasten  there.  For  this  reason  there  is 
much  tumult,  every  one  endeavoring  to  rescue 
him ;  they  surround  him  with  their  shields,  wish- 
ing to  preserve  his  person.  Hear  what  all  the 
people  say  to  David.  (I  say  not  this,  as  com- 
paring myself  to  David,  I  am  not  so  mad,  but 
because  I  wish  to  show  the  affection  of  the  peo- 
ple for  their  ruler.)  "  Thou  shalt  go  no  more 
out  with  us  to  battle,"  they  say,  "that  thou 
quench  not  the  lamp  of  Israel."  (2  Sam.  xxi. 
17.)  See  how  anxious  they  were  to  spare  the 
old  man.  I  am  gready  in  need  of  your  prayers. 
Let  no  one,  as  I  have  said,  from  an  excessive 
humility  deprive  me  of  this  alliance  and  succor. 
If  our  part  be  well  approved,  your  own  also  will 
be  more  honorable.  If  our  teaching  flow  abun- 
dantly, the  riches  will  redound  to  you.  Hear 
the  prophet  saying,  "Do  the  shepherds  feed 
themselves?"     (From  Ezek.  xxxiv.  2,  Sept.) 

Do  you  observe  Paul  constantly  seeking  these 
prayers?  Do  you  hear  that  thus  Peter  was 
delivered  from  prison,  when  fervent  prayer  was 
made  for  him?  (Acts  xii.  5.)  I  verily  believe 
that  your  prayer  will  have  great  effect,  offered 
with  so  great  unanimity.  Do  you  not  think  that 
it  is  a  matter  much  too  great  for  my  littleness 
to  draw  nigh  to  God,  and  entreat  Him  for  so 
numerous  a  people?  For  if  I  have  not  confi- 
dence to  pray  for  myself,  much  less  for  others. 
For  it  belongs  to  men  of  high  estimation,  to 
beseech  God  to  be  merciful  to  others ;  it  is 
for  those  who  have  rendered  Him  favorable  to 
themselves.  But  he  who  is  himself  an  offender, 
how  shall  he  entreat  for  another?  But  never- 
theless, because  I  embrace  you  with  a  father's 
heart,  because  love  dares  everything,  not  only 
in  the  Church,  but  in  the  house  also,  I  make  my 
prayer  above  all  other  things  for  your  health 
both  in  soul  and  in  body.  For  there  is  no  other 
prayer  so  becoming  to  a  Priest,  as  to  draw  nigh 
to  God  and  entreat  Him  for  the  good  of  the 
people,  before  his  own.     For  if  Job  rising  up 


392 


WORKS   OF   ST.   CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  IV. 


•immediately  made  so  many  offerings  for  his 
children  in  the  flesh,  how  much  more  ought  we 
to  do  this  for  our  spiritual  children  ? 

Why  do  I  say  these  things?  Because  if  we, 
who  are  so  far  removed  from  the  greatness  of 
the  work,  offer  supplications  and  prayers  for 
you,  much  more  is  it  just  that  you  should  do  it. 
For  that  one  should  entreat  for  many,  is  exceed- 
ingly bold,  and  requires  much  confidence :  but 
that  many  having  met  together  should  offer  sup- 
plication for  one,  is  nothing  burdensome.  For 
every  one  does  this  not  trusting  to  his  own 
virtue,  but  to  the  multitude,  and  to  their  una- 
nimity, to  which  God  everywhere  has  much  re- 
spect. For  He  says, (t  where  two  or  three  are 
gathered  together  in  My  Name,  there  am  I  in  the 
midst  of  them."  (Matt,  xx.  18.)  If  where  two  or 
three  are  gathered  together,  He  is  in  the  midst, 
much  more  is  He  among  you.  For  that  which 
a  man  praying  by  himself  is  not  able  to  receive, 
that  he  shall  receive  praying  with  a  multitude. 
Why  ?  Because  although  his  own  virtue  has  not, 
yet  the  common  consent  has  much  power. 

"  Where  two  or  three,"  it  is  said,  "  are  gathered 
together."  Why  didst  thou  say,  "  Two  "  ?  For 
if  there  be  one  in  Thy  Name,  why  art  Thou  not 
there  ?  Because  I  wish  all  to  be  together,  and 
not  to  be  separated.  Let  us  therefore  close  up 
together;  let  us  bind  one  another  together  in 
love,  let  no  one  separate  us.  If  any  one  accuses, 
or  is  offended,  let  him  not  retain  it  in  his  mind, 
whether  against  his  neighbor,  or  against  us. 
This  favor  I  ask  of  you,  to  come  to  us,  and 
bring  the  accusation,  and  receive  our  defense. 
"  Reprove  him,"  it  says,  "  lest  haply  he  hath 
not  said  it.  Reprove  him,  lest  haply  he  hath 
not  done  it"  (Ecclus.  xix.  14,  15)  ;  and  if  he 
hath  done  it,  that  he  add  not  thereto.  For  we 
have  either  defended  ourselves,  or  being  con- 
demned have  asked  pardon,  and  henceforth  en- 
deavor not  to  fall  into  the  same  faults.  This  is 
expedient  both  for  you  and  for  us.  For  you  in- 
deed having  accused  us  perhaps  without  reason, 
when  you  have  learned  the  truth  of  the  matter, 
will  stand  corrected,  and  we  have  offended  un- 
awares and  are  corrected.  For  you  indeed  it  is 
not  expedient.1  For  punishment  is  appointed 
for  those  who  utter  any  idle  word.  But  we  put 
off  accusations,  whether  false  or  true.  The  false, 
by  showing  that  they  are  false  ;  the  true,  by  not 
again  doing  the  same  things.  For  it  must  needs 
happen  that  he  who  has  the  care  of  so  many 
things  should  be  ignorant,  and  through  igno- 
rance commit  errors.  For  if  every  one  of  you 
having  a  house,  and  presiding  over  wife  and 
children,  and   slaves,   one   more    and   another 

1  [Something  must  be  supplied,  most  probably  "  to  accuse  with- 
out reason,"  as  suggested  by  the  foregoing.  —  J.  A.  B.] 


fewer,  among  souls  that  are  so  easily  numbered, 
is  nevertheless  compelled  to  commit  many  errors 
involuntarily,  or  from  ignorance,  or  when  wish- 
ing to  set  something  right ;  much  more  must  it 
be  so  with  us  who  preside  over  so  many  people. 

And  may  God  still  multiply  you  and  bless  you, 
the  little  with  the  great !  For  although  the  care 
becomes  greater  from  the  increase  of  numbers, 
we  do  not  cease  praying  that  this  our  care  may 
be  increased,  and  that  this  number  may  be 
added  to,  and  be  many  times  as  great  and 
without  limit.  For  fathers,  although  often  har- 
assed by  the  number  of  their  children,  never- 
theless do  not  wish  to  lose  any  one.  All  things 
are  equal  between  us  and  you,  even  the  very 
chief  of  our  blessings.  I  do  not  partake  of  the 
holy  Table  with  greater  abundance,  and  you  with 
less,  but  both  equally  participate  of  the  same. 
And  if  I  take  it  first,  it  is  no  great  privilege,  since 
even  among  children,  the  elder  first  extends  his 
hand  to  the  feast,  but  nevertheless  no  advantage 
is  gained  thereby.  But  with  us  all  things  are 
equal.  The  saving  life  that  sustains  our  souls  is 
given  with  equal  honor  to  both.  I  do  not  in- 
deed partake  of  one  Lamb2  and  you  of  another, 
but  we  partake  of  the  same.  We  both  have  the 
same  Baptism.  We  have  been  vouchsafed  the 
same  Spirit.  We  are  both  hastening  to  the  same 
kingdom.  We  are  alike  brethren  of  Christ,  we 
have  all  things  in  common. 

Where  then  is  my  advantage?  In  cares,  in 
labors,  in  anxieties,  in  grieving  for  you.  But 
nothing  is  sweeter  than  this  grief,  since  even  a 
mother  grieving  for  her  child  is  delighted  with 
her  grief,  she  thinks  carefully  of  those  whom  she 
has  brought  forth,  she  is  delighted  at  her  cares. 
And  yet  care  in  itself  is  bitter,  but  when  it  is  for 
children,  at  least  it  has  in  it  much  pleasure. 
Many  of  you  have  I  begotten,  but  after  this  are 
my  pangs.  For  in  the  case  of  mothers  in  the 
flesh  the  pangs  are  first,  and  then  the  birth. 
But  here  the  pangs  last  till  the  latest  breath,  lest 
there  should  be  anywhere  some  abortion  even 
after  the  birth.  And  I  indeed  have  a  further 
longing ;  for  although  perchance  another  has 
begotten  you,  yet  I  nevertheless  am  harassed 
with  cares.  For  we  do  not  of  ourselves  beget 
you,  but  it  is  all  of  the  grace  of  God.  But  if 
we  both  through  the  Spirit  beget,  he  will  not  err 
who  calls  those  begotten  by  me,  his  children, 
and  those  begotten  by  him,  mine.  All  these 
things  then  consider,  and  stretch  forth  your 
hand,  that  you  may  be  our  boast  and  we  yours, 
in  the  day  of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  which  God 
grant  that  we  may  all  see  with  confidence, 
through  Jesus  Christ  our  Lord,  with  whom,  &c. 

*  irpo0aTov,  sheep  in  general,  but  he  seems  to  have  die  Passover 
in  mind. 


Homily  V.] 


HOMILIES  ON  THESSALONIANS. 


393 


HOMILY    V. 


2   THESSALONIANS  iti.   3-5. 


"  But  the  Lord  is  faithful,  who  shall  stablish  you,  and 
guard  you  from  the  evil  one.  And  we  have  confi- 
dence in  the  Lord  touching  you,  that  ye  both  do 
and  will  do  the  things  which  we  command  you.  And 
the  Lord  direct  your  hearts  into  the  love  of  God, 
and  into  the  patience  of  Christ" 

Neither  ought  we,  having  committed  every- 
thing to  the  prayers  of  the  Saints,  to  be  idle 
ourselves,  and  run  into  wickedness,  and  to  lay 
hold  of  nothing ;  nor  again  when  working  good 
to  despise  that  succor.  For  great  indeed  are  the 
things  which  prayer  for  us  can  effect,  but  it  is 
when  we  ourselves  also  work.  For  this  reason 
Paul  also,  praying  for  them,  and  again  giving 
them  assurance  from  the  promise,  says,  "  But  the 
Lord  is  faithful,  who  shall  stablish  you,  and 
guard  you  from  the  evil  one."  For  if  He  has 
chosen  you  to  salvation,  He  does  not  deceive 
you,  nor  suffer  you  utterly  to  perish.  But  that 
he  may  not  by  these  means  lead  them  to  sloth, 
and  lest  they  thinking  the  whole  to  be  of  God 
should  themselves  sleep,  see  how  he  also  de- 
mands cooperation  from  them,  saying,  "And 
we  have  confidence  in  the  Lord  touching  you, 
that  ye  both  do  and  will  do  the  things  which  we 
command  you."  "The  Lord"  indeed,  he  says, 
"  is  faithful,"  and  having  promised  to  save  will 
certainly  save  ;  but  as  He  promised.  And  how 
did  He  promise?  If  we  be  willing,  and  hear 
Him  ;  not  simply  (hearing),  nor  like  stocks  and 
stones,  being  inactive. 

And  he  has  well  introduced  the  words,  "  We 
have  confidence  in  the  Lord,"  that  is,  we  trust 
to  His  lovingkindness.  Again  he  brings  them 
down,  making  everything  depend  thereupon. 
For  if  he  had  said,  We  have  confidence  in  you, 
the  commendation  indeed  was  great,  but  it 
would  not  have  taught  them  to  make  all  things 
dependent  upon  God.  And  if  he  had  said,  We 
have  confidence  in  the  I^ord,  that  He  will  pre- 
serve you,  and  had  not  added  "  as  touching  you," 
and,  "  that  ye  do  and  will  do  the  things  which 
we  command  you,"  he  would  have  made  them 
more  slothful,  by  casting  everything  upon  the 
power  of  God.  For  it  becomes  us  indeed  to 
cast  everything  upon  Him,  yet  working  also 
ourselves,  embarked  in  the  labors  and  the  con- 
flicts. And  he  shows  that  even  if  our  virtue 
alone  were  sufficient  to  save,  yet  nevertheless  it 
ought  to  be  persevering,  and  to  abide  with  us 
until  we  come  to  our  latest  breath. 

"  But  the  Lord,"  he  says,  "  direct  your  hearts 
into  the  love  of  God,  and  the  patience  of  Christ." 


Again  he  commends  them,  and  prays,  showing 
his  concern  for  them.  For  when  he  is  about  to 
enter  upon  reproof,  he  previously  smooths  down 
their  minds,  by  saying,  "I  am  confident  that 
ye  will  hear,"  and  by  requesting  prayers  from 
them,  and  by  again  invoking  upon  them  infinite 
blessings. 

"  But  the  Lord,"  he  says,  "  direct  your  hearts 
into  the  love  of  God."  For  there  are  many 
things  that  turn  us  aside  from  love,  and  there 
are  many  paths  that  draw  us  away  from  thence. 
In  the  first  place  the  path  of  Mammon,  laying, 
as  it  were,  certain  shameless  hands  upon  our 
soul,  and  tenaciously  holding  it  in  its  grasp, 
draws  and  drags  us  thence  even  against  our  will. 
Then  vainglory,  and  often  afflictions  and  temp- 
tations, turn  us  aside.  For  this  reason  we  need, 
as  a  certain  wind,  the  assistance  of  God,  that 
our  sail  may  be  impelled,  as  by  some  strong 
wind,  to  the  love  of  God.  For  tell  me  not,  "  I 
love  Him,  even  more  than  myself."  These  are 
words.  Show  it  to  me  by  thy  works,  if  thou 
lovest  Him  more  than  thyself.  Love  Him  more 
than  money,  and  then  I  shall  believe  that  thou 
lovest  Him  even  more  than  thyself.  But  thou 
who  despisest  not  riches  for  the  sake  of  God, 
how  wilt  thou  despise  thyself?  But  why  do  I 
say  riches  ?  Thou  who  despisest  not  covetous- 
ness,  which  thou  oughtest  to  do  even  without 
the  commandments  of  God,  how  wilt  thou  de- 
spise thyself? 

"  And  into  the  patience  of  Christ,"  he  says. 
What  is  "  into  the  patience  "  ?  That  we  should 
endure  even  as  He  endured,  or  that  we  should 
do  those  things,  or  that  with  patience  also  we 
should  wait  for  Him,  that  is,  that  we  should  be 
prepared.  For  since  He  has  promised  many 
things,  and  Himself  is  coming  to  judge  the 
quick  and  the  dead,  let  us  wait  for  Him,  and 
let  us  be  patient.  But  wherever  he  speaks  of 
patience,  he  of  course  implies  affliction.  For 
this  is  to  love  God ;  to  endure,  and  not  to  be 
troubled. 

Ver.  6.  "  Now  we  command  you,  brethren, 
in  the  name  of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  that  ye 
withdraw  yourselves  from  every  brother  that 
walketh  disorderly,  and  not  after  the  tradition 
which  they  received  of  us." 

That  is,  it  is  not  we  that  say  these  things,  but 
Christ,  for  that  is  the  meaning  of  "  in  the  name 
of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ"  ;  equivalent  to 
"through  Christ."  Showing  the  fearfulness  of 
the  message,  he  says,  through  Christ.    Christ 


394 


WORKS   OF  ST.   CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  V. 


therefore  commanded  us  in  no  case  to  be  idle. 
"  That  ye  withdraw  yourselves,"  he  says,  "  from 
every  brother."  Tell  me  not  of  the  rich,  tell 
me  not  of  the  poor,  tell  me  not  of  the  holy. 
This  is  disorder.  "That  walketh,"  he  says, 
that  is,  liveth.  "And  not  after  the  tradition 
which  they  received  from  me."  Tradition,  he 
says,  which  is  through  works.  And  this  he 
always  calls  properly  *  tradition. 

Ver.  7,  8.  "For  yourselves  know  how  ye 
ought  to  imitate  us :  for  we  behaved  not  our- 
selves disorderly  among  you;  neither  did  we 
eat  bread  for  nought  at  any  man's  hand." 

And  yet  even  if  they  had  eaten,  it  would  not 
have  been  for  nought.  "For  the  laborer,"  he 
says,  "  is  worthy  of  his  hire."     (Luke  x.  7.) 

"  But  in  labor  and  travail,  working  night  and 
day,  that  we  might  not  burden  any  of  you.  Not 
because  we  have  not  the  right,  but  to  make  our- 
selves an  ensample  unto  you  that  ye  should 
imitate  us.  For  even  when  we  were  with  you, 
this  we  commanded  you,  If  any  will  not  work, 
neither  let  him  eat." 

See  how  in  the  former  Epistle  indeed  he  dis- 
courses somewhat  more  mildly  concerning  these 
things;  as  when  he  says,  "We  beseech  you, 
brethren,  —  that  ye  would  abound  more  and 
more  —  and  that  ye  study"  (1  Thess.  iv.  i-n) 
—  and  nowhere  does  he  say,  "  we  command," 
nor  "  in  the  Name  of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ," 
which  was  fearful  and  implied  danger,  but  that 
"  ye  abound,"  he  says,  and  "  study,"  which  are 
the  words  of  one  exhorting  to  virtue ;  "  that  ye 
may  walk  honesdy"  (becomingly),  he  says. 
(1  Thess.  iv.  12.)  But  here  is  nothing  of  this 
kind,  but  "  if  any  one  will  not  work,"  says  he, 
"  neither  let  him  eat."  For  if  Paul,  not  being 
under  a  necessity,  and  having  a  right  to  be  idle, 
and  having  undertaken  so  great  a  work,  did 
nevertheless  work,  and  not  merely  work,  but 
"  night  and  day,"  so  that  he  was  able  even  to 
assist  others,  —  much  more  ought  others  to  do 
this. 

Ver.  n.  "For  we  hear  of  some  that  walk 
among  you  disorderly,  that  work  not  at  all,  but 
are  busybodies." 

This  indeed  he  says  here ;  but  there,  in  the 
first  Epistle,  he  says,  "  that  ye  may  walk  hon- 
estly towards  them  that  are  without."  On  what 
account?  Perhaps  there  was  as  yet  no  such 
thing.  For  upon  another  occasion  also  admon- 
ishing, he  says,  "  It  is  more  blessed  to  give  than 
to  receive."  (Acts  xx.  35.)  But  the  expres- 
sion, "  walk  honestly,"  has  no  reference  to  dis- 
order ;  wherefore  he  added,  "  that  ye  may  have 
need  of  nothing."  (1  Thess.  iv.  12.)  And  here 
he  sets  down  another  necessity,  for  thus  doing 
what  was  honorable  and  good  towards  all.    (For 

1  Or  "  especially  "  (cvputt). 


as  he  proceeds,  he  says,  "  be  not  weary  in  well 
doing.")  For  certainly  he  that  is  idle  and  yet 
able  to  work  must  needs  be  a  busybody.  But 
alms  are  given  to  those  only  who  are  not  able 
to  support  themselves  by  the  work  of  their  own 
hands,  or  who  teach,  and  are  wholly  occupied 
in  the  business  of  teaching.  "  For  thou  shalt 
not  muzzle  the  ox,"  he  says,  "  when  he  treadeth 
out  the  corn."  (Deut.  xxv.  4.)  "And  the 
laborer  is  worthy  of  his  hire."  (1  Tim.  v.  18, 
and  Luke  x.  7.)  So  that  neither  is  he  idle,  but 
receives  the  reward  of  work,  and  great  work  too. 
But  to  pray  and  fast,  being  idle,2  is  not  the  work 
of  the  hands.  For  the  work  that  he  is  here 
speaking  of  is  the  work  of  the  hands.  And  that 
you  may  not  suspect  any  such  thing,  he  has 
added, 

"That  work  not  at  all,  but  are  busybodies. 
Now  them  that  are  such  we  command  and  ex- 
hort through  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ." 

Because  he  had  touched  them  severely,  wish- 
ing to  render  his  discourse  more  mild,  he  adds, 
"  through  the  Lord,"  again  what  is  authoritative 
and  fearful. 

"  That  with  quietness,"  he  says,  "  they  work, 
and  eat  their  own  bread." 

For  why  has  he  not  said,  But  if  they  are  not 
disorderly,  let  them  be  maintained  by  you ;  but 
requires  both,  that  they  be  quiet,  and  that  they 
work?  "That  they  may  eat  their  own  bread," 
says  he,  not  that  of  another.  / 

Ver.  13.  "But  ye,  brethren,  be  not  weary  in 
well  doing." 

See  how  immediately  the  fatherly  heart  was 
overcome.  He  was  not  able  to  carry  out  his 
reproof  farther,  but  again  pitied  them.  And 
see  with  what  discretion !  He  has  not  said, 
But  pardon  them,  until  they  are  amended ;  but 
what  ?  "  But  ye,  be  not  weary  in  well  doing." 
Withdraw  yourselves,  he  says,  from  them,  and 
reprove  them ;  do  not,  however,  suffer  them  to 
perish  with  hunger.  What  then,  he  says,  if 
having  abundance  from  us,  he  should  remain 
idle  ?  In  that  case,  he  says,  I  have  spoken  of  a 
mild  remedy,  that  you  withdraw  yourselves  from 
him,  that  is,  do  not  partake  with  him  in  free 
conversation;  show  that  you  are  angry.  This 
is  no  little  matter.  For  such  is  the  reproof  that 
is  given  to  a  brother,  if  we  wish  really  to  amend 
him.  We  are  not  ignorant  of  the  methods  of 
reproof.  For  tell  me,  if  you  had  a  brother  in 
the  flesh,  would  you  then  overlook  him  pining 
with  hunger  ?  Truly  I  think  not ;  but  perhaps 
you  would  even  correct  him. 

Ver.  14.  "  And  if  any  man  obeyeth  not  our 
word  by  this  Episde." 

He  has  not  said,  He  that  disobeys,  disobeys 


8  See  on  i  Thess.  iv.  xa,  where  he  says  nearly  the 
x  Tim.  v.  10  he  praises  the  Monks  near  Antioch,  but  it 
they  were  industrious. 


On 
that 


Homily  V.] 


HOMILIES   ON  THESSALONIANS. 


395 


me,  but  "note  that  man."  This  is  no  slight 
chastisement.  "  Have  no  company  with  him." 
Then  again  he  says,  "  that  he  may  be  ashamed." 
And  he  does  not  permit  them  to  proceed  farther. 
For  as  he  had  said,  "if  any  does  not  work 
neither  let  him  eat,"  fearing  lest  they  should 
perish  by  hunger,  he  has  added,  "  But  in  doing 
good,  be  not  ye  weary."  Thus  having  said, 
"Withdraw  yourselves,  and  have  no  company 
with  him,"  then  fearing  lest  this  very  thing 
might  cut  him  off  from  the  brotherhood  —  for 
he  who  gives  himself  up  to  despair,  will  quickly 
be  lost  if  he  is  not  admitted  to  freedom  of  con- 
versation —  he  has  added, 

Ver.  15.  "Yet  count  him  not  as  an  enemy, 
but  admonish  him  as  a  brother." 

By  this  he  shows  that  he  has  assigned  a  heavy 
punishment  against  him,  in  depriving  him  of 
freedom  of  conversation. 

For  if  to  be  a  receiver  even  with  many  others 
is  worthy  of  disgrace,  when  they  even  reprove 
whilst  they  offer  it,  and  withdraw  themselves, 
how  great  is  the  reproach,  quite  sufficient  to 
sting  the  soul.  For  if  only  giving  rather  tardily, 
and  with  murmuring,  they  inflame  the  receivers 
—  for  tell  me  not  of  impudent  beggars,  but  of 
the  faithful — if  they  were  to  reprove  whilst  they 
give,  what  would  they  not  do  ?  to  what  punish- 
ment would  it  not  be  equal  ?  We  do  not  do  so, 
but  as  if  we  had  been  greatly  injured,  we  so  in- 
sult and  turn  away  from  those  who  beg  of  us. 
Thou  dost  not  give,  but  why  dost  thou  also 
grieve  him?  "Admonish  them,"  he  says,  "as 
brethren,"  do  not  insult  them  as  enemies.  He 
who  admonishes  his  brother,  does  it  not  publicly. 
He  does  not  make  an  open  show  of  the  insult, 
but  he  does  it  privately  and  with  much  address, 
and  grieving,  as  hurt,  and  weeping  and  lament- 
ing. Let  us  bestow  therefore  with  the  disposi- 
tion of  a  brother,  let  us  admonish  with  the  good 
will  of  a  brother,  not  as  if  we  grieved  at  giving, 
but  as  if  we  grieved  for  his  transgressing  the 
commandment.  Since  what  is  the  advantage? 
For  if,  even  after  giving,  you  insult,  you  destroy 
the  pleasure  of  giving.  But  when  you  do  not 
give  and  yet  insult,  what  wrong  do  you  not  do 
to  that  wretched  and  unfortunate  man?  He 
came  to  you,  to  receive  pity  from  you,  but  he 
goes  away  having  received  a  deadly  blow,  and 
weeps  the  more.  For  when  by  reason  of  his 
poverty  he  is  compelled  to  beg,  and  is  insulted 
on  account  of  his  begging,  think  how  great  will 
be  the  punishment  of  those  who  insult  him. 
"  He  that  dishonoreth  the  poor,"  it  says,  "  pro- 
voketh  his  Maker."  (Prov.  xiv.  12,  31,  Sept.) 
For  tell  me,  did  He  suffer  him  to  be  poor  for 
thy  sake,  that  thou  mightest  be  able  to  heal 
thyself —  and  dost  thou  insult  him  who  for  thy 
sake  is  poor?  What  obstinacy  is  this  !  what  an 
act  of  ingratitude  is  it !     "  Admonish  him  as  a 


brother,"  he  says,  and  after  having  given,  he 
orders  you  to  admonish  him.  But  if  even  with- 
out giving  we  insult  him,  what  excuse  shall  we 
have? 

Ver.  16.  "Now  the  Lord  of  peace  Himself 
give  you  peace  at  all  times  in  all  ways." 

See  how,  when  he  mentions  the  things  that 
are  to  be  done,  he  sets  his  mark  upon  them  by 
prayer,  adding  prayer  and  supplication,  like 
certain  marks  set  upon  things  that  are  laid  up. 
"  Give  you  peace,"  he  says,  "  at  all  times,  in  all 
ways."  For  since  it  was  likely  that  contentions 
would  arise  from  these  things,  those  men  be- 
coming exasperated,  and  the  others  not  supply- 
ing such  persons  so  readily  as  formerly,  he  with 
good  reason  now  offered  this  prayer  for  them, 
saying,  "  Give  you  peace  at  all  times."  For  this 
is  what  is  sought,  that  they  may  ever  have  it. 
"  In  every  way,"  says  he.  What  is,  "  in  every  "  ? 
So  that  they  may  have  no  occasion  of  conten- 
tion from  any  quarter.  For  everywhere  peace 
is  a  good  thing,  even  towards  those  who  are 
without.  For  hear  him  elsewhere  saying,  "  If  it 
be  possible,  as  much  as  in  you  lieth,  be  at  peace 
with  all  men."  (Rom.  xii.  18.)  For  nothing 
is  so  conducive  to  the  right  performance  of  the 
things  which  we  wish,  as  to  be  peaceable  and 
undisturbed,  and  to  be  free  from  all  hatred,  and 
to  have  no  enemy. 

"  The  Lord  be  with  you  all." 

Ver.  17,  18.  "The  salutation  of  me  Paul  with 
mine  own  hand,  which  is  the  token  in  every 
Epistle :  so  I  write.  The  grace  of  our  Lord 
Jesus  Christ  be  with  you  all." 

This  he  says  that  he  writes  in  every  Epistle, 
that  no  one  may  be  able  to  counterfeit  them,  his 
subscription  being  subjoined  as  a  great  token. 
And  he  calls  the  prayer  a  salutation,  showing 
that  everything  they  then  did  was  spiritual; 
even  when  it  was  proper  to  offer  salutation,  the 
thing  was  attended  with  advantage ;  and  it  was 
prayer,  not  merely  a  symbol  of  friendship.  With 
this  he  began,  and  with  it  he  ended,  guarding 
with  strong  walls  what  he  had  said  elsewhere, 
and  laying  safe  foundations,  he  brought  it  also 
to  a  safe  end.  "  Grace  be  unto  you  and  peace," 
he  says ;  and  again,  "  The  grace  of  our  Lord 
Jesus  Christ  be  with  you  all.  Amen."  This 
the  Lord  also  promised,  saying  to  His  disciples, 
"  Lo,  I  am  with  you  alway,  even  unto  the  end 
of  the  world."  (Matt,  xxviii.  20.)  But  this 
takes  place  when  we  are  willing.  For  He  will 
not  be  altogether  with  us,  if  we  place  ourselves 
at  a  distance.  "  I  will  be  with  you,"  He  says, 
"always."  Let  us  not  therefore  drive  away 
grace.  He  tells  us  to  withdraw  from  every 
brother  that  walketh  disorderly.  This  was 
then  a  great  evil,  to  be  separated  from  the 
whole  body  of  the  brethren.  By  this  indeed  he 
punishes  all,  as  elsewhere  in  his  Epistle  to  the 


396 


WORKS   OF   ST.   CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  V, 


Corinthians  he  said,  "  With  such  a  one  no,  not 
to  eat."  (i  Cor.  v.  n.)  But  now  the  major- 
ity do  not  think  this  a  great  evil.  But  all  things 
are  confounded  and  corrupted.  With  adulterers, 
with  fornicators,  with  covetous  persons,  we  mix 
freely,  and  as  a  matter  of  course.  If  we  ought 
to  withdraw  ourselves  from  one  who  was  only 
supported  in  idleness,  how  much  more  from 
the  others.  And  that  you  may  know  how  fear- 
ful a  thing  it  was  to  be  separated  from  the  com- 
pany of  the  brethren,  and  what  advantage  it 
produces  to  those  who  receive  reproof  with  a 
right  mind,  hear  how  that  man,  who  was  puffed 
up  with  sin,  who  had  proceeded  to  the  extreme 
of  wickedness,  who  had  committed  such  fornica- 
tion as  is  not  named  even  among  the  heathens, 
who  was  insensible  of  his  wound  —  for  this  is 
the  excess  of  perversion — he  after  all,  though 
such  an  one,  was  so  bent  down  and  humbled, 
that  Paul  said,  "  Sufficient  to  such  a  one  is  this 
punishment  which  was  inflicted  by  the  many. 
Wherefore  confirm  your  love  toward  him."  (2 
Cor.  ii.  6,  8.)  For  as  a  member  separated  from 
the  rest  of  the  body,  so  was  he  at  that  time. 

But  the  cause,  and  that  from  which  this  was 
then  so  terrible,  was,  because  even  the  being 
with  them  was  thought  by  them  a  great  bless- 
ing. For  like  men  who  inhabit  one  house, 
and  are  under  one  father,  and  partake  of 
one  table,  so  did  they  then  dwell  in  every 
Church.  How  great  an  evil  therefore  was  it  to 
fall  from  so  great  love  !  But  now  it  is  not  even 
thought  to  be  a  great  evil,  because  neither  is  it 
considered  any  great  thing  when  we  are  united 
with  one  another.  What  was  then  in  the  order 
of  punishment,  this,  on  account  of  the  great 
coldness  of  love,  now  takes  place  even  apart 
from  punishment,  and  we  withdraw  from  one 
another  causelessly,  and  from  coldness.  For  it 
is  the  cause  of  all  evils  that  there  is  no  love. 
This  has  dissolved  all  ties,  and  has  disfigured  all 
that  was  venerable  and  splendid  in  the  Church, 
in  which  we  ought  to  have  gloried. 

Great  is  the  confidence  of  the  Teacher,  when 
from  his  own  good  actions  he  is  entitled  to 
reprove  his  disciples.  Wherefore  also  Paul  said, 
"  For  yourselves  know  how  ye  ought  to  imitate 
us."  (2  Thess.  iii.  7.)  And  he  ought  to  be  a 
Teacher  more  of  life  than  of  the  word.  And 
let  no  one  think  that  this  is  said  from  a  spirit 
of  boasting.  For  it  was  as  reduced  to  necessity 
that  he  spoke  it,  and  with  a  view  to  general 
advantage.  "  For  we  behaved  not  ourselves," 
he  says,  "  disorderly  among  you."  From  this 
do  you  not  see  his  humility,  in  that  he  calls 
it,  "  for  nought,"  and  "  disorderly  behavior  "  ? 
"  We  did  not  behave  ourselves  disorderly  among 
you,"  he  says,  "neither  did  we  eat  any  man's 
bread  for  nought."  Here  he  shows  that  perhaps 
also  they  were  poor ;  and  tell  me  not,  that  they 


were  poor.  For  he  is  discoursing  concerning 
the  poor,  and  those  who  obtained  their  neces- 
sary subsistence  from  no  other  source  than  from 
the  work  of  their  hands.  For  he  has  not  said, 
that  they  may  have  it  from  their  fathers,  but 
that  by  wouking  they  should  eat  their  own  bread. 
For  if  I,  he  says,  a  herald  of  the  word  of  doc- 
trine, was  afraid  to  burden  you,  much  more  he 
who  does  you  no  service.  For  this  is  truly  a 
burden.  And  it  is  a  burden  too,  when  one  does 
not  give  with  much  alacrity;  but  this  is  not 
what  he  hints  at,  but  as  if  they  were  not  able  to 
do  it  easily.  For  why* dost  thou  not  work? 
For  God  hath  given  thee  hands  for  this  pur- 
pose, not  that  thou  shouldest  receive  from 
others,  but  that  thou  shouldest  impart  to  others. 

But  "the  Lord,"  he  says,  "be  with  you." 
This  prayer  also  we  may  offer  for  ourselves,  if 
we  do  the  things  of  the  Lord.  For  hear  Christ 
saying  to  His  disciples,  "  Go  ye  and  make  dis- 
ciples of  all  the  nations,  baptizing  them  into 
the  Name  of  the  Father,  and  of  the  Son,  and  of 
the  Holy  Ghost :  teaching  them  to  observe  all 
things  whatsoever  I  commanded  you :  and,  lo,  I 
am  with  you  alway,  even  unto  the  end  of  the 
world."  (Matt,  xxviii.  19,  20.)  If  ye  do  these 
things,  assuredly.  For  that  the  promise  is  not 
made  to  them  only,  but  to  those  also  who  walk 
in  their  steps,  is  manifest  from  His  saying  "  to 
the  end  of  the  world." 

What  then  does  He  say  to  those  who  are  not 
teachers  ?  Each  of  you,  if  he  will,  is  a  teacher, 
although  not  of  another,  yet  of  himself.  Teach 
thyself  first.  If  thou  teachest  to  observe  all 
things  whatsoever  He  commanded,  even  by  this 
means  thou  wilt  have  many  emulating  thee.  For 
as  a  lamp,  when  it  is  shining,  is  able  to  light  ten 
thousand  others,  but  being  extinguished  will  not 
give  light  even  to  itself,  nor  can  it  lighten  other 
lamps ;  so  also  in  the  case  of  a  pure  life,  if  the 
light  that  is  in  us  be  shining,  we  shall  make  both 
disciples  and  teachers  numberless,  being  set  be- 
fore them  as  a  pattern  to  copy.  For  neither 
will  the  words  proceeding  from  me  be  able  so  to 
benefit  the  hearers,  as  your  life.  For  let  a  man, 
tell  me,  be  dear  to  God,  and  shining  in  virtue, 
and  having  a  wife  ;  (for  it  is  possible  for  a  man 
having  a  wife  and  children  and  servants  and 
friends  to  please  God ;)  will  he  not  be  able 
much  more  than  I  to  benefit  them  all  ?  For  me 
they  will  hear  once  or  twice  in  a  month,  or  not 
even  once,  and  even  though  they  have  kept  what 
they  have  heard  as  far  as  the  threshold  of  the 
Church,  they  presently  let  it  drop  away  from 
them :  but  seeing  the  life  of  that  man  con- 
stantly, they  receive  great  advantage.  For  when 
being  insulted  he  insults  not  again,  does  he  not 
almost  infix  and  engrave  upon  the  soul  of  the 
insulter  the  reverence  of  his  meekness?  And 
though  he  does   not  immediately  confess  the 


Homily  V.] 


HOMILIES   ON   THESSALONIANS. 


397 


benefit,  being  ashamed  from  anger,  or  put  to 
confusion,  yet  nevertheless  he  immediately  is 
made  sensible  of  it.  And  it  is  impossible  for  a 
man  that  is  insolent,  though  he  be  a  very  beast, 
to  associate  with  one  who  is  patient  of  evil, 
without  going  away  much  benefited.  For  al- 
though we  do  not  what  is  good,  we  however  all 
praise  it  and  admire  it.  Again,  the  wife,  if  she 
see  her  husband  gentle,  being  always  with  him, 
receives  great  advantage,  and  the  child  also.  It 
is  therefore  in  the  power  of  every  one  to  be  a 
teacher.  For  he  says,  "Build  each  other  up, 
even  as  also  ye  do."  (i  Thess.  v.  n.)  For  tell 
me,  has  any  loss  befallen  the  family?  The  wife 
is  disturbed,  as  being  weaker,  and  more  extrava- 
gant, and  fond  of  ornament ;  the  man  if  he  be 
a  philosopher,  and  a  derider  of  loss,  both  con- 
soles her,  and  persuades  her  to  bear  it  with  for- 
titude. Tell  me,  then,  will  he  not  benefit  her 
much  more  than  our  words  ?  For  it  is  easy  to 
talk,  but  to  act,  when  we  are  reduced  to  the 
necessity,  is  in  every  way  difficult.  On  this  ac- 
count human  nature  is  wont  rather  to  be  regu- 
lated by  deeds.  And  such  is  the  superiority  of 
virtue,  that  even  a  slave  often  benefits  a  whole 
family  together  with  the  master. 

For  not  in  vain,  nor  without  reason,  does  Paul 
■constantly  command  them  to  practice  virtue,  and 
to  be  obedient  to  their  masters,  not  so  much  re- 
garding the  service  of  their  masters,  as  that  the 
word  of  God  and  the  doctrine  be  not  blas- 
phemed. But  when  it  is  not  blasphemed,  it  will 
soon  also  be  admired.  And  I  know  of  many 
families,  that  they  have  greatly  benefited  by  the 
virtue  of  their  slaves.  But  if  a  servant  placed 
under  authority  can  improve  his  master,  much 
more  can  the  master  his  servants.  Divide  then 
with  me,  I  beseech  you,  this  ministry.  I  address 
all  generally,  do  you  each  individual  privately, 
and  let  each  charge  himself  with  the  salvation 
of  his  neighbors.  For  that  it  becomes  one  to 
preside  over  those  of  his  household  in  these 
matters,  hear  where  Paul  sends  women  for  in- 
struction ;  "  And  if  they  would  learn  anything, 
let  them  ask  their  own  husbands  at  home  "  (i 
Cor.  xiv.  35)  ;  and  he  does  not  lead  them  to 
the  Teacher.  For  as  in  the  schools  of  learning, 
there  are  teachers  even  among  the  disciples,  so 
also  in  the  Church.  For  he  wishes  the  Teacher 
not  to  be  troubled  by  all.  Wherefore  ?  Be- 
cause then  there  will  be  great  advantages,  not 
only  that  the  labor  will  be  fight  to  the  Teacher, 
but  that  each  of  the  disciples  also,  having  taken 
pains,  is  soon  able  to  become  a  teacher,  making 
this  his  concern. 

For  see  how  great  a  service  the  wife  contrib- 
utes. She  keeps  the  house,  and  takes  care  of 
all  things  in  the  house,  she  presides  over  her 
handmaids,  she  clothes  them  with  her  own  hands, 
she  causes  thee  to  be  called  the  father  of  chil- 


dren, she  delivers  thee  from  brothels,  she  aids 
thee  to  live  chastely,  she  puts  a  stop  to  the  strong 
desire  of  nature.  And  do  thou  also  benefit  her. 
How  ?  In  spiritual  things  stretch  forth  thy  hand. 
Whatever  useful  things  thou  hast  heard,  these, 
like  the  swallows,  bearing  off  in  thy  mouth,  carry 
away  and  place  them  in  the  mouth  of  the  mother 
and  the  young  ones.  For  how  is  it  not  absurd,  in 
other  things  to  think  thyself  worthy  of  the  pre- 
eminence, and  to  occupy  the  place  of  the  head, 
but  in  teaching  to  quit  thy  station.  The  ruler 
ought  not  to  excel  the  ruled  in  honors,  so  much 
as  in  virtues.  For  this  is  the  duty  of  a  ruler,  for 
the  other  is  the  part  of  the  ruled,  but  this  is  the 
achievement  of  the  ruler  himself.  If  thou  enjoy- 
est  much  honor,  it  is  nothing  to  thee,  for  thou 
receivedst  it  from  others.  If  thou  shinest  in 
much  virtue,  this  is  all  thine  own. 

Thou  art  the  head  of  the  woman,  let  then  the 
head  regulate  the  rest  of  the  body.  Dost  thou 
not  see  that  it  is  not  so  much  above  the  rest  of 
the  body  in  situation,  as  in  forethought,  direct- 
ing like  a  steersman  the  whole  of  it?  For  in 
the  head  are  the  eyes  both  of  the  body,  and  of 
the  soul.  Hence  flows  to  them  both  the  faculty 
of  seeing,  and  the  power  of  directing.  And  the 
rest  of  the  body  is  appointed  for  service,  but 
this  is  set  to  command.  All  the  senses  have 
thence  their  origin  and  their  source.  Thence 
are  sent  forth  the  organs  of  speech,  the  power 
of  seeing,  and  of  smelling,  and  all  touch.  For 
thence  is  derived  the  root  of  the  nerves  and  of 
the  bones.  Seest  thou  not  that  it  is  superior  in 
forethought  more  than  in  honor  ?  So  let  us  rule 
the  women ;  let  us  surpass  them,  not  by  seeking 
greater  honor  from  them,  but  by  their  being  more 
benefited  by  us. 

I  have  shown  that  they  afford  us  no  little 
benefits,  but  if  we  are  willing  to  make  them  a 
return  in  spiritual  things,  we  surpass  them.  For 
it  is  not  possible  in  bodily  things  to  offer  an 
equivalent.  For  what?  dost  thou  contribute 
much  wealth?  but  it  is  she  who  preserves  it, 
and  this  care  of  hers  is  an  equivalent,  and  thus 
there  is  need  of  her,  because  many,  who  had 
great  possessions,  have  lost  all  because  they  had 
not  one  to  take  care  of  them.  But  as  for  the 
children,  you  both  communicate,  and  the  bene- 
fit from  each  is  equal.  She  indeed  in  these 
things  rather  has  the  more  laborious  service, 
always  bearing  the  offspring,  and  being  afflicted 
with  the  pains  of  childbirth ;  so  that  in  spiritual 
things  only  wilt  thou  be  able  to  surpass  her. 

Let  us  not  therefore  regard  how  we  shall  have 
wealth,  but  how  we  shall  present  with  confidence 
to  God  the  souls  with  which  we  are  entrusted. 
For  by  regulating  them  we  shall  also  most  highly 
benefit  ourselves.  For  he  who  teaches  another, 
although  he  does  nothing  else,  yet  in  speaking 
is  affected  with  compunction,  when  he  sees  him- 


398 


WORKS   OF   ST.    CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  V. 


self  responsible  for  those  things,  on  account  of 
which  he  reproves  others.  Since  therefore  we 
benefit  both  ourselves  and  them,  and  through 
them  the  household,  and  this  is  preeminently 
pleasing  to  God ;  let  us  not  be  weary  of  taking 
care  both  of  our  own  souls,  and  of  those  who 
minister  to  us,  that  for  all  we  may  receive  a 
recompense,  and  with  much  riches  may  arrive 
at  the  holy  City  our  mother,  the  Jerusalem  that 


is  above,  from  which  God  grant  that  we  may 
never  fall,  but  that  having  shone  in  the  most 
excellent  course  of  life,  we  may  be  thought 
worthy  with  much  confidence  to  see  our  Lord 
Jesus  Christ ;  with  whom  to  the  Father,  together 
with  the  Holy  Ghost,  be  glory,  power,  and 
honor,  now  and  ever,  and  world  without  end. 
Amen. 


I 

i 

i 
» 


THE  HOMILIES  OF  ST.  JOHN  CHRYSOSTOM, 


ARCHBISHOP  OF  CONSTANTINOPLE, 


ON  THB 


EPISTLES  OF  ST.  PAUL  THE  APOSTLE 


TO 


TIMOTHY,   TITUS,   AND   PHILEMON 


The  Oxford  Translation  Edited,  with  Additional  Notes,  by 


REV.   PHILIP  SCHAFF,  D.D.,  LL.D. 


PREFACE. 


The  remark  of  Photius,  that  St.  Chrysostom's  more  finished  works  were  those  which  he  com- 
posed at  Antioch,  does  not  seem  to  afford  a  sufficient  criterion  for  assigning  a  date  to  each  set  of 
Homilies.  Tillemont  appears  to  have  been  misled  by  it  in  the  instance  of  those  on  the  Epistles 
to  Timothy,  which  he  has  on  such  grounds  supposed  to  have  been  delivered  at  Constantinople. 
Montfaucon,  however,  alleges  two  reasons  for  placing  them  at  Antioch. 

i.  That  he  speaks  much  of  the  Monks,  as  he  used  to  do  there,  owing  to  the  neighborhood  of 
a  large  number  of  them,  who  lived  in  strict  discipline  and  exemplary  devotion.  2.  That  in 
speaking  of  Timothy's  office  as  Bishop,  he  never  says  a  word  of  being  one  himself.  A  third  reason 
may  be  added,  which  is  perhaps  more  conclusive  than  either  of  these.  In  Horn.  viii.  on  2  Tim. 
iii.  he  seems  pretty  evidently  to  allude  to  the  burning  of  the  Temple  of  Apollo  at  Daphne.  One 
can  hardly  doubt  the  allusion,  in  reading  the  full  account  in  the  Homily  on  St.  Babylas ;  nor  can 
it  well  be  supposed  that  he  would  thus  refer  to  it  as  a  thing  well  known  at  any  other  place  than 
Antioch. 

The  Homilies  on  the  Epistle  to  Titus  are  fixed  at  Antioch  by  the  mention  of  Daphne  and  the 
cave  of  Matrona  in  Horn.  iii.  (2).  A  passage  in  Horn.  i.  (4)  seems  to  place  him  in  a  paternal 
relation  to  the  people,  as  the  plural  we  is  constantly  used  by  him  for  the  singular.  But  the  whole 
context  seems  rather  to  allude  to  another  as  Bishop,  and  he  must  be  understood  to  speak  as  one 
■of  a  body  of  clergy,  in  which  in  fact  he  held  the  second  place. 

Those  on  the  Epistle  to  Philemon  cannot  easily  be  assigned  to  any  particular  date.  The 
promise  he  mentions  in  the  last  Homily  does  not  seem  to  afford  a  clue  to  it,  but  may  possibly  do 
so.  The  composition  of  these  Homilies  has  been  remarked  on  as  negligent  by  Hemsterhusius, 
so  that  he  takes  them  to  have  been  extemporaneous  effusions  taken  down  by  others.  There  may 
be  some  ground  for  this  in  the  style,  and  in  the  paraphrastic  character  of  the  various  readings, 
but  as  a  commentary  they  are  unusually  close  and  exact,  and  point  out  much  of  what  regards  the 
persuasive  character  of  the  Epistle  that  is  not  generally  noticed. 

For  the  Translation  and  some  illustrative  notes,  the  Editors  are  indebted  to  the  Rev.  James 
Tweed,  M.A.,  of  Corpus  Christi  College,  Cambridge.  The  text  of  the  New  Paris  edition  has  been 
<:hiefly  used,  as  it  is  improved  from  the  Benedictine.  Savile's  has  been  compared  with  it  in 
many  parts,  and  in  every  difficulty,  and  where  both  failed,  a  better  reading  has  been  sometimes 
found  in  the  MS.  marked  B,  which  is  in  the  British  Museum  marked  Burney  48.  The  differ- 
ences are,  however,  slight,  and  affect  the  Greek  more  than  the  Translation.  A  Venice  MS.  which 
"Usually  agrees  with  this  has  been  collated  for  the  Homilies  on  the  Epistle  to  Philemon.  An  old 
Latin  version  published  at  Basle  has  been  noticed  in  some  places,  where  its  variations  appear  to 

be  derived  from  Greek  copies. 

C.  M[arriot]. 
Oxford,  1843. 


CONTENTS. 


HOMILIES  ON   FIRST   EPISTLE  TO  TIMOTHY. 

PAGB 

Argument 407 

ioMiLY  I.  —  i  Tim.  i.  1,  2.  Paul,  an  Apostle  of  Jesus  Christ  by  the  commandment  of  God  our  Saviour,  and 
Lord  Jesus  Christ,  which  is  our  hope ;  unto  Timothy,  my  own  son  in  the  faith :  Grace,  mercy,  and  peace, 
from  God  our  Father,  and  Jesus  Christ  our  Lord 408 

Iomily  II.  —  1  Tim.  i.  5-7.  Now  the  end  of  the  commandment  is  charity  out  of  a  pure  heart,  and  of  a 
good  conscience,  and  of  faith  unfeigned :  From  which  some  having  swerved  have  turned  aside  unto  vain 
jangling;  Desiring  to  be  teachers  of  the  law;  understanding  neither  what  they  say,  nor  whereof  they 
affirm 412 

Iomily  III.  —  1  Tim.  i.  12-14.  And  I  thank  Christ  Jesus  our  Lord,  who  hath  enabled  me,  for  that  he  counted 
me  faithful,  putting  me  into  the  ministry;  who  was  before  a  blasphemer,  and  a  persecutor,  and 
injurious :  but  I  obtained  mercy,  because  I  did  it  ignorantly  in  unbelief.  And  the  grace  of  our  Lord  was 
exceeding  abundant,  with  faith  and  love  which  is  in  Christ  Jesus 416 

Iomily  IV.  —  1  Tim.  i.  15,  16.  This  is  a  faithful  saying,  and  worthy  of  all  acceptation,  that  Christ  Jesus  came 
into  the  world  to  save  sinners;  of  whom  I  am  chief.  Howbeit  for  this  cause  I  obtained  mercy,  that  in  me 
first  Jesus  Christ  might  show  forth  all  longsuffering,  for  a  pattern  to  them  which  should  hereafter  believe 
on  Him  to  life  everlasting 419 

-Iomily  V.  —  1  Tim.  i.  18,  19.  This  charge  I  commit  unto  thee,  son  Timothy,  according  to  the  prophecies 
which  went  before  on  thee,  that  thou  by  them  mightest  war  a  good  warfare;  holding  faith,  and  a  good 
conscience;  which  some  having  put  away  concerning  faith  have  made  shipwreck 423 

Iomily  VI.  —  1  Tim.  ii.  1-4.  I  exhort  therefore  that,  first  of  all,  supplications,  prayers,  intercessions,  and 
giving  of  thanks  be  made  for  all  men;  for  kings,  and  for  all  that  are  in  authority;  that  we  may  lead  a 
quiet  and  peaceable  life  in  all  godliness  and  honesty.  For  this  is  good  and  acceptable  in  the  sight  of  God 
our  Saviour;   Who  will  have  all  men  to  be  saved,  and  to  come  unto  the  knowledge  of  the  truth 426 

Iomily  VII. —  1  Tim.  ii.  2-4.  That  we  may  lead  a  quiet  and  peaceable  life  in  all  godliness  and  honesty.  For 
this  is  good  and  acceptable  in  the  sight  of  God  our  Saviour;  Who  will  have  all  men  to  be  saved,  and  to 
come  unto  the  knowledge  of  the  truth 429 

Iomily  VIII. —  1  Tim.  ii.  8-10.  I  will  therefore  that  men  pray  everywhere,  lifting  up  holy  hands,  without 
wrath  and  doubting.  In  like  manner  also,  that  women  adorn  themselves  in  modest  apparel,  with  shame- 
facedness  and  sobriety;  not  with  broidered  hair,  or  gold,  or  pearls,  or  costly  array;  but  (which  becometh 
women  professing  godliness)  with  good  works 432 

Iomily  IX.  —  1  Tim.  ii.  11-15.  Let  the  women  learn  in  silence  with  all  subjection.  But  I  suffer  not  a  woman 
to  teach,  nor  to  usurp  authority  over  the  man,  but  to  be  in  silence.  For  Adam  was  first  formed,  then  Eve. 
And  Adam  was  not  deceived,  but  the  woman  being  deceived  was  in  the  transgression.  Notwithstanding 
she  shall  be  saved  in  childbearing,  if  they  continue  in  faith  and  charity  and  holiness  with  sobriety 435 

Iomily  X.  —  1  Tim.  ill.  1-4.  If  a  man  desire  the  office  of  a  Bishop,  he  desireth  a  good  work.  A  Bishop  then 
must  be  blameless,  the  husband  of  one  wife,  vigilant,  sober,  of  good  behavior,  given  to  hospitality,  apt  to 
teach;  not  given  to  wine,  no  striker,  not  greedy  of  filthy  lucre;  but  patient,  not  a  brawler,  not  covetous; 
one  that  ruleth  well  his  own  house,  having  his  children  in  subjection  with  all  gravity 437 

Iomily  XI.  —  1  Tim.  iii.  8-10.  Likewise  must  the  deacons  be  grave,  not  doubletongued,  not  given  to  much 
wine,  not  greedy  of  filthy  lucre ;  holding  the  mystery  of  the  faith  in  a  pure  conscience.  And  let  these  also 
first  be  proved ;   then  let  them  use  the  office  of  a  deacon,  being  found  blameless 44* 

Iomily  XII.  —  1  Tim.  iv.  1-3.  Now  the  Spirit  speaketh  expressly,  that  in  the  latter  times  some  shall  depart 
from  the  faith,  giving  heed  to  seducing  spirits,  and  doctrines  of  devils;  speaking  lies  in  hypocrisy;  having 
their  conscience  seared  with  a  hot  iron;  forbidding  to  marry,  and  commanding  to  abstain  from  meats, 
which  God  hath  created  to  be  received  with  thanksgiving  of  them  which  believe  and  know  the  truth ....  444 


404  CONTENTS. 


FIRST  EPISTLE  TO  TIMOTHY  —  Continued. 

PAG 

Homily  XIII.  —  I  Tim.  iv.  11-14.  These  things  command  and  teach.  Let  no  man  despise  thy  youth;  but  be 
thou  an  example  of  the  believers,  in  word,  in  conversation,  in  charity,  in  spirit,  in  faith,  in  purity.  Till  I 
come,  give  attendance  to  reading,  to  exhortation,  to  doctrine.  Neglect  not  the  gift  that  is  in  thee,  which 
was  given  thee  by  prophecy,  with  the  laying  on  of  the  hands  of  the  presbytery 44 

Homily  XIV.  —  1  Tim.  v.  8.  But  if  any  provide  not  for  his  own,  and  especially  for  those  of  his  own  house, 
he  hath  denied  the  faith,  and  is  worse  than  an  infidel 45 

Homily  XV.  —  1  Tim.  v.  11-15.  But  the  younger  widows  refuse:  for  when  they  have  begun  to  wax  wanton 
against  Christ,  they  will  marry;  having  damnation,  because  they  have  cast  off  their  first  faith.  And  withal 
they  learn  to  be  idle,  wandering  about  from  house  to  house ;  and  not  only  idle,  but  tattlers  also  and  busy- 
bodies,  speaking  things  which  they  ought  not.  I  will  therefore  that  the  younger  widows  marry,  bear 
children,  guide  the  house,  give  none  occasion  to  the  adversary  to  speak  reproachfully.  For  some  are 
already  turned  aside  after  Satan 459 

Homily  XVI.  —  1  Tim.  v.  21-23.  I  charge  thee  before  God  and  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  and  the  elect  Angels, 
that  thou  observe  these  things  without  preferring  one  before  another,  doing  nothing  by  partiality.  Lay 
hands  suddenly  on  no  man,  neither  be  partaker  of  other  men's  sins:  keep  thyself  pure.  Drink  no  longer 
water,  but  use  a  little  wine  for  thy  stomach's  sake  and  thine  often  infirmities 464 

Homily  XVII. —  I  Tim.  vi.  2-7.  These  things  teach  and  exhort  If  any  man  teach  otherwise,  and  consent 
not  to  wholesome  words,  even  the  words  of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  and  to  the  doctrine  which  is  according 
to  godliness;  he  is  proud,  knowing  nothing,  but  doting  about  questions  and  strife  of  words,  whereof 
cometh  envy,  strife,  railings,  evil  surmisings,  perverse  disputings  of  men  of  corrupt  minds,  and  destitute  of 
the  truth,  supposing  that  gain  is  godliness:  from  such  withdraw  thyself.  But  godliness  with  content- 
ment is  great  gain.     For  we  brought  nothing  into  this  world,  and  it  is  certain  we  can  carry  nothing  out. .  467 

Homily  XVIII. —  1  Tim.  vi.  13-16.  I  give  thee  charge  in  the  sight  of  God,  Who  quickeneth  all  things,  and 
before  Christ  Jesus,  Who  before  Pontius  Pilate  witnessed  a  good  confession;  that  thou  keep  this  com- 
mandment without  spot,  unrebukeable,  until  the  appearing  of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ :  which  in  His  times 
He  shall  show,  Who  is  the  blessed  and  only  Potentate,  the  King  of  kings,  and  Lord  of  lords;  Who 
only  hath  immortality,  dwelling  in  the  light  which  no  man  can  approach  unto :  Whom  no  man  hath  seen, 
nor  can  see;  to  Whom  be  honor  and  power  everlasting.    Amen 471 


SECOND   EPISTLE  TO  TIMOTHY. 

Homily  I.  —  2  Tim.  L  I,  2.  Paul,  an  apostle  of  Jesus  Christ  by  the  will  of  God,  according  to  the  promise  of 
life  which  is  in  Jesus  Christ,  to  Timothy,  my  dearly  beloved  son :  Grace,  mercy  and  peace,  from  God  the 
Father  and  Christ  Jesus  our  Lord 4SS 

Homily  II.  —  2  Tim.  i.  8-10.  Be  not  thou  therefore  ashamed  of  the  testimony  of  our  Lord,  nor  of  me  Hb 
prisoner:  but  be  thou  partaker  of  the  afflictions  of  the  Gospel  according  to  the  power  of  God;  Who  hat* 
saved  us,  and  called  us  with  an  holy  calling,  not  according  to  our  works,  but  according  to  His  own  purpose 
and  grace,  which  was  given  us  in  Christ  Jesus  before  the  world  began;  but  is  now  made  manifest  by  the 
appearing  of  our  Saviour  Jesus  Christ 479 

Homily  III.  —  2  Tim.  i.  13-18.  Hold  fast  the  form  of  sound  words,  which  thou  hast  heard  of  me,  m  fain 
and  love  which  is  in  Christ  Jesus.  That  good  thing  which  was  committed  unto  thee  keep  by  the  Hotr 
(.■host  Which  dwelleth  in  us.  This  thou  knowest,  that  all  they  which  are  in  Asia  be  turned  away  fpsm 
me;  of  whom  are  Phygellus  and  Hermogenes.  The  Lord  give  mercy  unto  the  house  of  Onesiphocoot;  far 
he  oft  refreshed  me,  and  was  not  ashamed  of  my  chain :  but  when  he  was  in  Rome,  he  sought  me  ocft  *rsy 
diligently,  and  found  me.  The  Lord  grant  unto  him  that  he  may  find  mercy  of  the  Lord  in  that  day :  mm. 
in  how  many  things  he  ministered  unto  me  at  Ephesus,  thou  knowest  very  well ak 

Homily  IV.  —  2  Tim.  u.  1-7.  Thou  therefore,  my  son,  l>e  strong  in  the  grace  that  is  in  Christ  Jesus. 
things  thai  thou  hast  heard  of  me  among  many  witnesses,  the  same  commit  thou  to  faithful 
shall  be  able  to  teach  others  also.  Thou  therefore  endure  hardness,  as  a  good  soldier  of  Jesus  CbriSL  Xr 
man  that  warreth  e=tang*eth  himself  with  the  affairs  of  this  life ;  that  he  may  please  him  who  h*A  ebon 
bin:  tc>  be  a  so!  i:er.  As  i  if  a  man  also  strive  for  masteries,  yet  is  he  not  crowned,  except  he  strrne  )m~ 
folly.  Tie  hssbasdman  that  laboreth  must  be  first  j>artaker  of  the  fruits.  Consider  what  I  say;  at  ae 
Lord  give  thee  ~:erscasi:r.g  in  all  things & 

Hc-mtly  V.  —  2  Ti=-  z~  1 1-14.    It  b  a  faithful  saying :  for  if  we  be  dead  with  Him,  we  shall  also  live 
if  we  scaer,  we  shall  ai&o  reign  with  Him:  if  we  deny  Him,  He  also  will  deny  us:  if  we 


CONTENTS.  405 


SECOND   EPISTLE  TO  TIMOTHY  —  Continued, 

PAGS 

He  abideth  faithful:  He  cannot  deny  Himself.  Of  these  things  put  them  in  remembrance,  charging 
them  before  the  Lord,  that  they  strive  not  about  words  to  no  profit,  but  to  the  subverting  of  the  hearers  492 

Iomily  VI.  —  2  Tim.  ii.  20,  21.  But  in  a  great  house  there  are  not  only  vessels  of  gold  and  of  silver,  but  also 
of  wood  and  of  earth ;  and  some  to  honor,  and  some  to  dishonor.  If  a  man  therefore  purge  himself  from 
these,  he  shall  be  a  vessel  unto  honor,  sanctified,  and  meet  for  the  master's  use,  and  prepared  unto  every 
good  work 496 

Iomily  VII. —  2  Tim.  iii.  1-7.  This  know  also,  that  in  the  last  days  perilous  times  shall  come.  For  men  shall 
be  lovers  of  their  own  selves,  covetous,  boasters,  proud,  blasphemers,  disobedient  to  parents,  unthankful, 
unholy,  Without  natural  affection,  trucebreakers,  false  accusers,  incontinent,  fierce,  despisers  of  those 
that  are  good,  Traitors,  heady,  highminded,  lovers  of  pleasure  more  than  lovers  of  God;  Having  a  form  of 
godliness,  but  denying  the  power  thereof;  from  such  turn  away.  For  of  this  sort  are  they,  which  creep 
into  houses,  and  lead  captive  silly  women  laden  with  sins,  led  away  with  divers  lusts  and  pleasures,  Ever 
learning,  and  never  able  to  come  to  the  knowledge  of  the  truth 500 

Iomily  VIII.  —  2  Tim.  iii.  1-4.  This  know  also,  that  in  the  last  days  perilous  times  shall  come.  For  men 
shall  be  lovers  of  their  own  selves,  covetous,  boasters,  proud,  blasphemers,  disobedient  to  parents,  unthank- 
ful, unholy,  Without  natural  affection,  trucebreakers,  false  accusers,  incontinent,  fierce,  despisers  of  those 
that  are  good,  Traitors,  heady,  highminded,  lovers  of  pleasures  more  than  lovers  of  God 504 

Iomily  IX.  —  2  Tim.  iii.  16,  17.  All  Scripture  is  given  by  inspiration  of  God,  and  is  profitable  for  doctrine, 
for  reproof,  for  correction,  for  instruction  in  righteousness :  That  the  man  of  God  may  be  perfect,  thor- 
oughly furnished  unto  all  good  works 509 

Iomily  X.  —  2  Tim.  iv.  9-13.  Do  thy  diligence  to  come  shortly  unto  me:  For  Demas  hath  forsaken  me, 
having  loved  this  present  world,  and  is  departed  unto  Thessalonica;  Crescens  to  Galatia,  Titus  unto 
Dalmatia.  Only  Luke  is  with  me.  Take  Mark,  and  bring  him  with  thee :  for  he  is  profitable  to  me  for 
the  ministry.  And  Tychicus  have  I  sent  to  Ephesus.  The  cloak  that  I  left  at  Troas  with  Carpus,  when 
thou  comest,  bring  with  thee,  and  the  books,  but  especially  the  parchments 513 


EPISTLE  TO  TITUS. 

Iomily  I.  —  Titus  i.  1-4.  Paul,  a  servant  of  God,  and  an  apostle  of  Jesus  Christ,  according  to  the  faith  of 
God's  elect,  and  the  acknowledging  of  the  truth  which  is  after  godliness;  In  hope  of  eternal  life,  which 
God,  that  cannot  lie,  promised  before  the  world  began;  But  hath  in  due  times  manifested  His  word 
through  preaching,  which  is  committed  unto  me  according  to  the  commandment  of  God  our  Saviour;  To 
Titus,  mine  own  son  after  the  common  faith ;  Grace,  mercy,  and  peace,  from  God  the  Father,  and  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ  our  Saviour 519 

[omily  II.  —  Titus  i.  5,  6.  For  this  cause  left  I  thee  in  Crete,  that  thou  shouldest  set  in  order  the  things  that 
are  wanting,  and  ordain  elders  in  every  city  as  I  had  appointed  thee :  If  any  be  blameless,  the  husband  of 
one  wife,  having  faithful  children,  not  accused  of  riot,  or  unruly 524 

Iomily  III.  —  Titus  i.  12-14.  One  °f  themselves,  even  a  prophet  of  their  own,  said,  The  Cretians  are  always 
liars,  evil  beasts,  slow  bellies.  This  witness  is  true.  WTierefore  rebuke  them  sharply,  that  they  may  be 
sound  in  the  faith;   Not  giving  heed  to  Jewish  fables,  and  commandments  of  men,  that  turn  from  the  truth  528 

[omily  IV. — Titus  ii.  2-5.  That  the  aged  men  be  sober,  grave,  temperate,  sound  in  faith,  in  charity, 
in  patience.  The  aged  women,  likewise,  that  they  be  in  behavior  as  becometh  holiness,  not  false  accusers, 
not  given  to  much  wine,  teachers  of  good  things;  That  they  may  teach  the  young  women  to  be  sober,  to 
love  their  husbands,  to  love  their  children,  To  be  discreet,  chaste,  keepers  at  home,  good,  obedient  to 
their  own  husbands,  that  the  word  of  God  be  not  blasphemed 531 

[omily  V.  —  Titus  ii.  11-14.  For  the  grace  of  God  that  bringeth  salvation  hath  appeared  unto  all  men, 
Teaching  them  that,  denying  ungodliness  and  worldly  lusts,  we  should  live  soberly,  righteously,  and  godly, 
in  this  present  world;  Looking  for  that  blessed  hope,  and  the  glorious  appearing  of  the  great  God  and 
our  Saviour  Jesus  Christ;  Who  gave  Himself  for  us,  that  He  might  redeem  us  from  all  iniquity,  and  purify 
unto  Himself  a  peculiar  people,  zealous  of  good  works 535 

[omily  VI. — Titus  iii.  8-1 1.  These  things  I  will  that  you  affirm  constantly,  that  they  which  have  believed 
in  God  might  be  careful  to  maintain  good  works.  These  things  are  good  and  profitable  unto  men.  But 
avoid  foolish  questions,  and  genealogies,  and  contentions,  and  strivings  about  the  law,  for  they  are 
unprofitable  and  vain.  A  man  that  is  an  heretic  after  the  first  and  second  admonition  reject.  Knowing 
that  he  that  is  such  is  subverted,  and  sinneth,  being  condemned  of  himself 540 


406 


CONTENTS. 


EPISTLE  TO   PHILEMON. 


PAGE 


Argument 545 

Homily  I.  —  Phil.  i.  1-3.  Paul,  a  prisoner  of  Jesus  Christ,  and  Timothy  our  brother,  unto  Philemon  our  dearly 
beloved,  and  fellow-laborer,  And  to  our  beloved  Apphia,  and  Archippus  our  fellow-soldier,  and  to  the 
Church  in  thy  house :  Grace  to  you,  and  peace,  from  God  our  Father  and  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ 547 

Homily  II.  —  Phil.  i.  4-6.  I  thank  my  God,  making  mention  of  thee  always  in  my  prayers,  Hearing  of  thy 
love  and  faith,  which  thou  hast  towards  the  Lord  Jesus,  and  toward  all  saints.  That  the  communication  of 
thy  faith  may  become  effectual  by  the  acknowledging  of  every  good  thing  which  is  in  us,  in  Christ  Jesus  550 

Homily  III.  —  Phil.  i.  17-19.  If  thou  count  me  therefore  a  partner,  receive  him  as  myself.  If  he  hath 
wronged  thee,  or  oweth  thee  aught,  put  that  on  mine  account;  I  Paul  have  written  it  with  mine  own  hand, 
I  will  repay  it :  albeit  I  do  not  say  to  thee  how  thou  owest  unto  me  even  thine  own  self  besides 554 


^. 


HOMILIES  OF  ST.  JOHN  CHRYSOSTOM, 


ARCHBISHOP   OF    CONSTANTINOPLE, 


ON    THE 


FIRST   EPISTLE    OF   ST.    PAUL   THE   APOSTLE 


TO 


TIMOTHY. 


ARGUMENT. 

i.  Timothy  too1  was  one  of  the  disciples  of 
the  Apostle  Paul.  To  the  extraordinary  qualities 
of  this  youth  testimony  is  borne  by  Luke,  who 
informs*  us,  that  he  was  "  well  reported  of  by  the 
brethren  that  were  at  Lystra  and  Iconium." 
(Acts  xvi.  2.)  He  became  at  once  a  disciple 
and  a  teacher,  and  gave  this  singular  instance  of 
his  prudence,  that  hearing  Paul  preach  without 
insisting  upon  circumcision,  and  understanding 
that  he  had  formerly  withstood  Peter  upon  that 
point,  he  chose  not  only  not  to  preach  against  it, 
but  to  submit  to  that  rite.  For  Paul,  it  is  said, 
"took  and  circumcised  him"  (Acts  xvi.  3), 
though  he  was  of  adult  age,  and  so  trusted  him 
with  his  whole  economy.2 

The  affection  of  Paul  for  him  is  a  sufficient 
evidence  of  his  character.  For  he  elsewhere 
says  of  him,  "Ye  know  the  proof  of  him,  that  as 
a  son  with  a  father,  he  hath  served  with  me  in 
the  Gospel."  (Phil.  ii.  22.)  And  to  the  Cor- 
inthians again  he  writes  :  "  I  have  sent  unto  you 
Timothy,  who  is  my  beloved  son,  and  faithful  in 
the  Lord."  (1  Cor.  iv.  17.)  And  again:  "Let 
no  man  despise  him,  for  he  worketh  the  work  of 
the  Lord,  as  I  also  do."  (1  Cor.  xvi.  10,  n.) 
And  to  the  Hebrews  he  writes,  "  Know  that  our 
brother  Timothy  is  set  at  liberty."  (Heb.  xiii. 
23.)      Indeed  his  love  for  him  is  everywhere 

1  Kai.  The  reference  is  not  clear.  It  may  possibly  be  to  Titus, 
whom  he  presently  names  before  Timothy;  but  the  explanations 
that  follow  would  be  hardly  needed  in  that  case. 

3  i.e.  his  plan  of  meeting  Jewish  prejudices. 


apparent,  and  the  miracles8  that  are  now  wrought 
still  attest  his  claims.4 

2.  If  it  should  be  asked  why  he  addresses 
Epistles  to  Titus  and  Timothy  alone,  though 
Silas  was  approved,  as  also  was  Luke,  for  he 
writes,  "Only  Luke  is  with  me"  (2  Tim.  iv. 
n),  and  Clement  was  one  of  his  associates,  of 
whom  he  says,  "with  Clement  and  other  my 
fellow-laborers"  (Phil.  iv.  3),  for  what  reason 
then  does  he  write  only  to  Titus  and  Timothy? 
It  is  because  he  had  already  committed  the  care 
of  churches  to  these,  and  certain  marked5  places 
had  been  assigned  to  them,  but  the  others  were 
in  attendance  upon  him.  For  so  preeminent  in 
virtue  was  Timothy,  that  his  youth  was  no  im- 
pediment to  his  promotion ;  therefore  he  writes, 
"  Let  no  man  despise  thy  youth  "  (1  Tim.  iv. 
12,  and  v.  2)  ;  and  again,  "The  younger  women 
as  sisters."6  For  where  there  is  virtue,  all  other 
things  are  superfluous,  and  there  can  be  no 
impediment.  Therefore  when  the  Apostle  dis- 
courses of  Bishops,  among  the  many  things  he 
requires  of  them,  he  makes  no  particular  men- 
tion of  age.  And  if  he  speaks  of  a  Bishop 
"being  the  husband  of  one  wife,"  and  "having 
his  children  in  subjection"  (1  Tim.  iii.  2,  4), 
this  is  not  said,  as  if  it  were  necessary  he  should 
have  a  wife  and  children ;  but  that  if  any  should 

3  Of  miracles  said  to  be  wrought  by  the  bones  of  Timothy,  see 
Horn,  on  Stat,  i,  §  2,  Ben. 

*  vappr^ciav.  His  freedom  of  speech  in  the  court  of  Heaven. 
See  Horn.  i.  on  Stat.  §  a,  and  note  at  the  end  of  Horn.  vi.  on 
Stat.  Horn.  i.  on  Stat,  enlarges  on  the  character  of  Timothy, 
from  1  Tim.  v.  23. 

5  Or  conspicuous  +avtpoii. 

0  Some  copies  omit  the  latter  quotation. 


408 


WORKS   OF   ST.   CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  L 


happen  from  a  secular  life  to  be  advanced  to 
that  office,  they  might  be  such  as  knew  how  to 
preside  over  their  household  and  children,  and 
all  others  committed  to  them.  For  if  a  man 
were  both  secular  and  deficient  in  these  points, 
how  should  he  be1  intrusted  with  the  care  of  the 

Church  ? 

3.  Hut  why,  you  will  say,  does  he  address  an 
Kpistle  to  a  disciple  already  appointed  to  the 
office  of  a  Teacher?     Ought  he  not  to  have 


been  made  perfect  for  his  office,  before  he  was 
sent  ?  Yes ;  but  the  instruction  which  he  needed 
was  not  that  which  was  suited  to  a  disciple,  but 
that  which  was  proper  for  a  Teacher.  You  will 
perceive  him  therefore  through  the  whole  Epis- 
tle adapting  his  instructions  to  a  Teacher.  Thus 
at  the  very  beginning  he  does  not  say,  "  Do  not 
attend  to  those  who  teach  otherwise,"  but, 
"Charge  them  that  they  teach  no  other  doc- 
trine."    (1  Tim.  i.  3.) 


HOMILY    I. 


1  Timothy  i.  1,  2. 


»  r*ul.  an  Apostle  of  Jesua  Christ  by  the  commandment '  Epistles  therefore  he  begins  by  assuming  this 
of  UM  our  Saviour,  and  I  Ami  Jesus  Christ,  which  is  \  tjt|e>  ^ms  giving  authority  to  his  words,  as  here 

an  Apostle  of  Jesus  Christ 
commandment  of  God  oar 
does  not  appear  that  the 
Father  anywhere  commanded  him.  It  is  every- 
1,  liKKAT  and  admirable  is  the  dignity  of  an  where  Christ  who  addresses  him.  Thus,  "He 
Apostle,  and  we  find  Paul  constantly  setting  forth  said  unto  me,  Depart,  for  I  will  send  dice  6r 
the  causes  of  it,  not  as  if  he  took  the  honor  to  hence  unto  the  Gentiles"  (Acts  ttji.  21)  ;  and 
himself,  but  as  intrusted  with  it,  and  being  again,  "  Thou  must  be  brought  before  Caesar.'' 
under  the  necessity  of  so  doing.  For  when  be  ^Acts  xxvii.  24.^  But  whatever  the  Son  com- 
sjxwks  of  himself  as  M  called/*  and  that  "  by  the  mands,  this  he  considers  to  be  the  cotnmaiid- 
will  of  ikxL"  ami  again  elsewhere, %*  a  necessity  ment  of  the  Father,  as  those  of  the  Spirit  axe  the 
is  laid  upon  me"  ^1  Cor.  ix.  i6>,  and  when  he  commandments  of  the  Son.  For  he  was  sent 
says, %%  tor  this  I  was  separated,"  by  these  ex-  by  the  Spirit,  he  was  separated  by  the  Spirit 
pressions  all  idea  of  arrogance  and  ambition  is  and  this  he  says  was  the  commandment  of  God. 
removed.  For  as  he  deserves  the  severest  blame.  What  then?  does  it  derogate  from  the  power 
who  intrudes  into  an  office  which  is  not  given  of  the  Son,  that  His  Apostle  was  sent  foith  by 
him  of  v^xl,  so  he  who  rerases,  and  shrinks  from  the  commandment  of  the  Father?  By  no  means. 
it  when  offered  to  him,  incurs  Mame  of  another  For  observe,  how  he  represents  the  power  » 
kind,  that  vM  rebellion  and  disobedience.  There-  common  to  Nxh.  For  having  said.  -  according 
lore  Paul,  in  the  beginning  of  this  Epistle,  thus  to  the  commandment  of  God  ocr  SavScnr  *" :  be 
expresses  huns>elf,  "  Paul,  an  Apostle  of  Jesus  adds,  "and  Lord  Jesns  Christ,  ocr  bope.~  And 
Chnst  bv  the  commandment  of  Gvxi."  He  does  observe,  with  what  propriety  he  apr-Bes  tbe 
not  sav  here,  *  Paul  calVd,"  but  *•  by  command-  tides*5  And  indeed,  the"  r\ahnsc  arohes  this 
men;/'    He  >csrcs  in  :hs  manner,  :ha:  Timothy  to  the  Father,  saying.  ~  The  nope  oc  al  the  ends 


o:  tr.e  ear 


^: 


as  his  dwc::xjes*     i^i:  wricre  :s  uus  commarx> 


nu\  not  teel  any  human  ?nnrmi:y  rrom  suppos- 
ing :ha:  Paul  addrt^sses  him  on  the  same  tertns  Sessed    Paul   in   another   juace 

therefore  we  S^  iarx^, 
because  we  have  booe  in  the  r 

isvr:v->*     *  For  I  w-Z  srurr 


W?  re«- 0.  :r.  :he  Acts  of  the  Aros- 
i*s> ;  "  VSe  ^;r.:  saui,  >et\ara:e  me  Paul  ar>i 
K*mar\*s.  *        \crs  \m,   i.       And  everywhere 


.ixis  :he  narse  of  Atvstlje. 

,  «  .  .^i^        ..x         »»v   «•■*»*,»        «*^         *    »x^vx»»«.  **^,        »»  »  '-»»        ■»■•■■■  -•■» 


.Voh.  3t:;:.  O     TSera,*Tce 


herxnse  If 
V.xx  x  ;  ar.  sav  nochuv  oc  h^s  o«tu  a- i  their  .:estr^ou?ra  the  n.vk  aio  i>  arjsrsrfd.  Fx 

ftpdL 


v*k  >..*     ?*»».   >u«,«  V<c»r. 


:v  >^i-.ru:  ^:e  sn^er^  ^e  ^as 
ret  wh'jn  he  ha*  mijie  away 
he  hi>  rzrrje*!  the  wn.^we  5ocj 


sc  ^t:  be  t» 


»nr 


Homily  I.] 


HOMILIES   ON   TIMOTHY. 


409 


rather  assaults  him,  as  working  greater  mischief 
by  a  less  effort ;  and  in  one  soul  effecting  the 
ruin  of  all.  For  this  reason  Paul,  at  the  begin- 
ning, elevates  and  encourages  the  soul  of 
Timothy,  by  saying,  We  have  God  for  our 
Saviour  and  Christ  for  our  hope.  We  suffer 
much,  but  our  hopes  are  great ;  we  are  exposed 
to  snares  and  perils,  but  to  save  us  we  have  not 
man  but  God.  Our  Saviour  is  not  weak,  for  He 
is  God,  and  whatever  be  our  dangers  they  will 
not  overcome  us ;  nor  is  our  hope  made 
ashamed,  for  it  is  Christ.1  For  in  two  ways  we 
are  enabled  to  bear  up  against  dangers,  when 
we  are  either  speedily  delivered  from  them,  or 
supported  by  good  hopes  under  them. 

But  Paul  never  calls  himself  the  Apostle  of 
the  Father,  but  always  of  Christ.  Because  he 
makes  everything  common  to  both.  The  Gos- 
pel itself  he  calls  "  the  Gospel  of  God." 2  And 
whatever  we  suffer  here,  he  implies,  things  pres- 
ent are  as  nothing. 

"  Unto  Timothy,  my  own  son  in  the  faith." 
This  too  is  encouraging.  For  if  he  evinced 
such  faith  as  to  be  called  peculiarly  Paul's 
"own"  son,  he  might  be  confident  also  with 
respect  to  the  future.  For  it  is  the  part  of  faith 
not  to  be  cast  down  or  disturbed,  though  cir- 
cumstances occur  that  seem  contrary  to  the 
promises.  But  observe,  he  says,  "  my  son,"  and 
even  "  mine  own  son,"  and  yet  he  is  not  of  the 
same  substance.  But  what  ?  was  he  of  irrational 
kind  ?  "  Well,"  says  one,  "  he  was  not  of  Paul, 
so  this  does  not  imply  'being  of  another." 
What  then?  was  he  of  another  substance? 
neither  was  it  so,  for  after  saying  "mine  own 
son,"  he  adds,  "  in  the  faith,"  to  show  that  he 
was  really  "  his  own  son,"  and  truly  from  him. 
There  was  no  difference.  The  likeness  he  bore 
to  him  was  in  respect  to  his  faith,  as  in  human 
births  there  is  a  likeness  in  respect  of  substance. 
The  son  is  like  the  father  in  human  beings,  but 
with  respect  to  God  the  proximity  is  greater.3 
For  here  a  father  and  a  son,  though  of  the  same 
substance,  differ  in  many  particulars,  as  in  color, 
figure,  understanding,  age,  bent  of  mind,  endow- 
ments of  soul  and  body,  and  in  many  other 
things  they  may  be  like  or  unlike,  but  there 
is  no  such  dissimilarity  in  the  divine  Essence. 


1  Montfaucon  adopts  Savilc's  conjecture.  MSS.  Christ's.  The 
mistake  would  be  easily  made  by  a  transcriber  who  did  not  follow 
the  sense  entirely. 

*  Ver.  xi.     1  Thess.  ii.  4. 

5  He  supposes  an  Arian  objector  to  argue  that  St.  Paul  here  calls 
one  a  "  son,'  and  his  "  own  son,"  who  was  not  of  his  substance,  and 
so  our  Lord  may  be  called  the  Son  of  God,  and  yet  not  be  of  His 
substance.  St.  Chrysostom  replies  (1)  that  even  so  St.  Paul  docs 
not  leave  room  to  suppose  a  different  kind  of  substance,  as  though 
he  had  called  a  brute  his  son.  The  objector  rejoins,  that  still  he 
calls  one  a  son  who  was  not  of"  his  own  "  substance.  He  answers 
(2)  that  even  this  does  not  follow,  since  he  adds,  "  in  the  faith,"  and 
the  faith  of  Timothy  was  both  exactly  similar  to  his  own,  and  de- 
rived from  it.  Thus  the  passage  affords  no  countenance  even  to  the 
doctrine  of"  like,"  as  opposed  to  "  one  substance."  See  Epistle  of 
St.  Athanasius  in  def.  of  Nicene  Def.  c  v.  §  8,  Oxf.  Tr.  p.  39,  and 
Disc.  1,  c.  v.  p.  203. 


"  By  commandment."  This  is  a  stronger  ex- 
pression than  "  called,"  as  we  learn  from  other 
passages.  As  he  here  calls  Timothy  "  mine  own 
son,"  in  like  manner  he  says  to  the  Corinthians, 
"  in  Christ  Jesus  I  have  begotten  you,"  i.e.  in 
faith ;  but  he  adds  the  word  "  own," 4  to  show 
his  particular  likeness  to  himself,  as  well  as  his 
own  love  and  great  affection  for  him.  Notice 
again  the  "  in  "  applied  to  the  faith.  "  My  own 
son,"  he  says,  "  in  the  faith."  See  what  an 
honorable  distinction,  in  that  he  calls  him  not 
only  his  "  son,"  but  his  "  own  "  son. 

Ver.  2.  "  Grace,  mercy,  and  peace  from  God 
our  Father  and  Jesus  Christ  our  Lord." 

Why  is  mercy  mentioned  here,  and  not  in  the 
other  Epistles?  This  is  a  further  mark  of  his 
affection.  Upon  his  son  he  invokes  greater 
blessings,  with  the  anxjpus  apprehension  of  a 
parent.  For  such  was  his  anxiety,  that  he  gives 
directions  to  Timothy,  which  he  has  done  in  no 
other  case,  to  attend  to  his  bodily  health ;  where 
he  says,  "Use  a  little  wine  for  thy  stomach's 
sake,  and  thine  often  infirmities."  (i  Tim.  v. 
23.)  Teachers  indeed  stand  more  in  need  of 
mercy. 

"  From  God  our  Father,"  he  says,  "  and  Jesus 
Christ  our  Lord." 

Here  too  is  consolation.  For  if  God  is  our 
Father,  He  cares  for  us  as  sons,  as  Christ  says, 
"  What  man  is  there  of  you,  whom  if  his  son  ask 
bread,  will  he  give  him  a  stone  ?  "    (Matt.  vii.  9.) 

Ver.  3.  "  As  I  besought  thee  to  abide  still  at 
Ephesus,  when  I  went  into  Macedonia." 

Observe  the  gentleness  of  the  expression, 
more  like  that  of  a  servant  than  of  a  master. 
For  he  does  not  say  "  I  commanded,"  or  "bade" 
or  even  "exhorted,"  but  "I  besought  thee." 
But  this  tone  is  not  for  all :  only  meek  and  vir- 
tuous disciples  are  to  be  treated  thus.  The  cor- 
rupt and  insincere  are  to  be  dealt  with  in  a 
different  manner,  as  Paul  himself  elsewhere  di- 
rects, "  Rebuke  them  with  all  authority  "  (Tit. 
ii.  15)  ;  and  here  he  says  "charge,"  not  "be- 
seech," but  "charge  some  that  they  teach 
no  other  doctrine."  What  means  this?  That 
Paul's  Epistle  which  he  sent  them  was  not  suffi- 
cient ?  Nay,  it  was  sufficient ;  but  men  are  apt 
sometimes  to  slight  Epistles,  or  perhaps  this 
may  have  been  before  the  Epistles  were  written. 
He  had  himself  passed  some  time  in  that  city. 
There  was  the  temple  of  Diana,  and  there  he 
had  been  exposed  to  those  great  sufferings.  For 
after  the  assembly  in  the  Theater  had  been  dis- 
solved, and  he  had  called  to  him  and  exhorted 
the  disciples,  he  found  it  necessary  to  sail  away, 
though  afterwards  he  returned  to  them.  It  were 
worth  enquiry,  whether  he  stationed  Timothy 
there  at  that  time.5     For  he  says,  that  "  thou 


viij<rioi'. 


5  He  must  mean  to  suggest  that  this  is  a  reference  to  former 


4io 


WORKS   OF   ST.    CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  I. 


mightest  charge  some  that  they  teach  no  other 
doctrine  "  :  he  does  not  mention  the  persons  by 
name,  that  he  might  not,  by  the  openness  of  his 
rebuke,  render  them  more  shameless.  There 
were  in  that  city  certain  false  Apostles  of  the 
Jews,  who  wished  to  oblige  the  faithful  to  ob- 
serve the  Jewish  law,  a  fault  he  is  everywhere 
noticing  in  his  Epistles ;  and  this  they  did  not 
from  motives  of  conscience,  so  much  as  from 
vainglory,  and  a  wish  to  have  disciples,  from 
jealousy  of  the  blessed  Paul,  and  a  spirit  of  op- 
position to  him.  This  is  meant  by  "teaching 
another  doctrine." 

Ver.  4.  "  Neither  give  heed  to  fables  and  end- 
less genealogies." 

By  "  fables  "  he  does  not  mean  the  law ;  far 
from  it ;  but  inventions  and  forgeries  and  coun- 
terfeit doctrines.  For,  it  seems,  the  Jews  wasted 
their  whole  discourse  on  these  unprofitable  points. 
They  numbered  up  their  fathers  and  grandfathers, 
that  they  might  have  the  reputation  of  historical 
knowledge  and  research.  "  That  thou  mightest 
charge  some,"  he  says,  "that  they  teach  no 
other  doctrine,  neither  give  heed  to  fables  and 
endless  genealogies."  Why  does  he  call  them 
"  endless  "  ?  It  is  because  they  had  no  end,  or 
none  of  any  use,  or  none  easy  for  us  to  appre- 
hend. Mark  how  he  disapproves  of  question- 
ing. %For  where  faith  exists,  there  is  no  need  of 
question.  Where  there  is  no  room  for  curios- 
ity, questions  are  superfluous.  Questioning  is 
the  subversion  of  faith.1  For  he  that  seeks  has 
not  yet  found.  He  who  questions  cannot  be- 
lieve. Therefore  it  is  his  advice  that  we  should 
not  be  occupied  with  questions,  since  if  we 
question,  it  is  not  faith ;  for  faith  sets  reasoning 
at  rest.  But  why  then  does  Christ  say,  "  Seek 
and  ye  shall  find,  knock  and  it  shall  be  opened 
unto  you "  (Matt.  vii.  7)  ;  and,  "  Search  the 
Scriptures,  for  in  them  ye  think  ye  have  eternal 
life"?  (John  v.  39.)  The  seeking  there  is 
meant  of  prayer  and  vehement  desire,  and  He 
bids  "  search  the  Scriptures,"  not  to  introduce 
the  labors  of  questioning,  but  to  end  them,  that 
we  may  ascertain  and  settle  their  true  meaning, 
not  that  we  may  be  ever  questioning,  but  that 
we  may  have  done  with  it.  And  he  justly  said, 
"  Charge  some  that  they  teach  no  other  doc- 
trine, neither  give  heed  to  fables,  and  endless 
genealogies,  which  minister  questions  rather  than 
the  dispensation  of  God  in  faith." 2  Justly  has  he 
said,  "  the  dispensation  of  God."  For  great  are 
the  blessings  which  God  is  willing  to  dispense  ; 
but  the  greatness  of  them  is  not  conceived  by 
reasoning.     This  must  then  be  the  work  of  faith, 


times,  for  he  knew  the  history  too  well  to  suppose  that  this  Epistle 
was  written  then. 

1  Or  "  incompatible  with  "  avaiptTimri. 

*  The  English  version  is"  godly  edifying," from  the  reading ouco- 
loniav.  Olxovoniav,  as  here,  is  the  reading  of  MSS.  nearly  all 
Greek.     [Adopted  in  the  R.  V.J 


which  is  the  best  medicine  of  our  souls.  This 
questioning  therefore  is  opposed  to  the  dispen- 
sation of  God.  For  what  is  dispensed  by  faith  ? 
To  receive  His  mercies  and  become  better  men ; 
to  doubt  and  dispute  of  nothing ;  but  to  repose 
in  confidence.  For  what  "  ministers  questions  " 
displaces  faith  and  that  which  faith  hath  wrought 
and  builded.  Christ  has  said  that  we  must  be 
saved  by  faith;  this  these  teachers  questioned 
and  even  denied.  For  since  the  announcement 
was  present,  but  the  issue  of  it  future,  faith  was 
required.  But  they  being  preoccupied  by  legal 
observances  threw  impediments  in  the  way  of 
faith.  He  seems  also  here  to  glance  at  the 
Greeks,  where  he  speaks  of  "  fables  and  geneal- 
ogies," for  they  enumerated  their  Gods. 

Moral.     Let  us  not  then  give  heed  to  ques- 
tions.    For  we  were  called   Faithful,  that  we 
might  unhesitatingly  believe  what  is  delivered  to 
us,  and  entertain  no  doubt.     For  if  the  things 
asserted  were   human,   we    ought   to    examine 
them ;  but  since  they  are  of  God,  they  are  only 
to  be  revered  and  believed.     If  we  believe  not, 
how  shall  we  be  persuaded  of  the  existence  of 
a  God  ?     For  how  knowest  thou  that  there  is  a 
God,  when  thou  callest  Him  to  account?    The 
knowledge  of  God  is  best  shown  by  believing  in 
Him  without  proofs  and  demonstrations.    Even 
the  Greeks  know  this;  for  they  believed  their 
Gods,   telling   them,   saith    one,   even  without 
proof;   and  what? — That8  they  were  the  off- 
spring of  the  Gods.     But  why  do  I  speak  of  the 
Gods?     In  the  case  of  a  man,  a  deceiver  and 
sorcerer,4  (I  speak  of  Pythagoras,)  they  acted  in 
like  manner,  for  of  him  it  was  said,5  He  said  it.' 
And  over  their  temples  was  an  image  of  Silence, 
and  her  finger  on  her  mouth,  compressing  her 
lips,  and  significantly  exhorting  all  that  passed 
by  to  be  silent.     And  were  their  doctrines  so 
sacred,  and  are  ours  less  so?  and  even  to  be 
ridiculed  ?  C^VVhat    extreme    madness   is  this ! 
The  tenets  of  the  Greeks  indeed   are  rightly 
questioned.     For  they  were  of  that  nature,  be- 
ing but  disputes,  conflicts   of  reasonings,  and 
doubts;*  and  conclusions.     But  ours  are  far  from 
all  these.     For  human  wisdom  invented  theirs, 
but  ours  were  taught  by  the  grace  of  the  Spirit. 
Their  doctrines  are  madness  and  folly,  ours  are 
true  wisdom.     In   their   case   there   is  neither 
teacher  nor  scholar ;  but  all  alike  are  disputants. 
Here  whether  teacher   or  scholar,  each  is  to 
learn 7  of  him  from  whom  he  ought  to  learn,  and 
not  to  doubt,  but  obey ;  not  to  dispute,  but  be- 


8  Or  "  and  wherefore,"  "  because,"  &c.     See  Acts  xvii.  a8. 

*  YoifTos  icai  fidyov. 
s  avrbf  i<f>a. 

•  So  Sav.  mar.  and  MS.  Colb.  and  afterwards.  "  And  his  wts the 
five  years'  silence,  he  closed  his  mouth  with  his. finger,  and  com- 
pressing his  lips,"  &c. 

7  This  seems  the  only  way  in  which  the  Greek  can  be  cxnuir*ti. 
The  word  vultK  in  the  Latin,  may  come  from  another  reading,  l** 
the  sense  is  plain. 


HOMILV   I.] 


HOMILIES   ON   TIMOTHY. 


411 


lieve.  For  all  the  ancients  obtained  a  good 
report  through  faith,  and  without  this  everything 
is  subverted.  And  why  do  I  speak  of  it  in 
heavenly  things  ?  We  shall  find  upon  examina- 
tion that  earthly  things  depend  upon  it  no  less. 
For  without  this  there  would  be  no  trade  nor 
contracts,  nor  anything  of  the  sort.  And  if  it 
be  so  necessary  here  in  things  that  are  false, 
how  much  more  in  those.1 

This  then  let  us  pursue,  to  this  let  us  adhere, 
so  shall  we  banish  from  our  souls  all  destructive 
doctrines,  such,  for  instance,  as  relate  to  nativ- 
ity2 and  fate.8  If  you  believe  that  there  is  a 
resurrection  and  a  judgment,  you  will  be  able  to 
expel  from  your  mind  all  those  false  opinions. 
Believe  that  there  is  a  just  God,  and  you  will 
not  believe  that  there  can  be  an  unjust  nativity. 
Believe  that  there  is  a  God,  and  a  Providence,4 
and  you  will  not  believe  that  there  can  be  a 
nativity,  that  holds  all  things  together.5  Believe 
that  there  is  a  place  of  punishment,  and  a  King- 
dom, and  you  will  not  believe  in  a  nativity  that 
takes  away  our  free  agency,  and  subjects  us  to 
necessity  and  force.  Neither  sow,  nor  plant,  nor 
go  to  war,  nor  engage  in  any  work  whatever ! 
For  whether  you  will  or  not,  things  will  proceed 
according  to  the  course  of  nativity  !  What  need 
have  we  more  of  Prayer?  And  why  should  you 
deserve  to  be  a  Christian,  if  there  be  this  nativ- 
ity? for  you  will  not  then  be  responsible.  And 
whence  proceed  the  arts  of  life?  are  these  too 
from  nativity  ?  Yes,  you  say,  and  it  is  fated  to 
one  to  become  wise  with  labor.  But  can  you 
show  me  one  who  has  learnt  an  art  without 
labor?  You  cannot.  It  is  not  then  from  nativ- 
ity but  from  labor  that  he  derives  his  skill. 

But  why  does  a  man  who  is  corrupt  and 
wicked  become  rich,  without  inheriting  it  from 
his  father,  while  another,  amidst  infinite  labors, 
remains  poor?  For  such  are  the  questions  they 
raise,  always  arguing  upon  wealth  and  poverty, 
and  never  taking  the  case  of  vice  and  virtue. 
Now  in  this  question  talk  not  of  that,  but  show 
me  a  man  who  has  become  bad,  whilst  he  was 
striving  to  be  good ;  or  one  that,  without  striv- 
ing, has  become  good.  For  if  Fate  has  any 
power,  its  power  should  be  shown  in  the  most 
important  things;  in  vice  and  virtue,  not  in 
poverty  and  riches.  Again  you  ask,  why  is  one 
man  sickly  and  another  healthy?  why  is  one 
honored,  another  disgraced?  Why  does  every 
thing  succeed  well  with  this  man,  whilst  another 
meets  with  nothing  but  failure  and  impediments  ? 
Lay  aside  the  notion  of  nativity,  and  you  will 

1  ecetVcu?.  Sav.  coni.  e<«iVoif,  which  seems  necessary,  unless 
the  fault  be  elsewhere;  ne  must  mean  "  heavenly  things.'  Comp. 
Luke  xvi.  11. 

*  rVeccrif.  The  same  word  is  kept  throughout  the  passage, 
though  it  sounds  ill  in  places,  for  the  sake  of  fidelity. 

*  9«<k  wpovtmv,  "  a  God  providing." 
3  <rvvi\ovaa. 


know.  Believe  firmly  that  there  is  a  God  and  a 
Providence,  and  all  these  things  will  be  cleared 
up.  "  But  I  cannot,"  you  say,  "  conceive  that 
there  is  a  Providence,  when  there  is  such  dis- 
order. Can  I  believe  that  the  good  God  gives 
wealth  to  the  fornicator,  the  corrupt  and  dis- 
honest man,  and  not  to  the  virtuous  ?  How  can 
I  believe  this  ?  for  there  must  be  facts  to  ground 
belief."  Well  then,  do  these  cases  proceed  from 
a  nativity  that  was  just,  or  unjust?  "Unjust," 
you  say.  Who  then  made  it?  "  Not  God,"  you 
say,  "it  was  unbegotten."  But  how  can  the 
unbegotten  produce  these  things?  for  they  are 
contradictions.  "These  things  are  not  then  in 
any  wise  the  works  of  God."  Shall  we  then 
enquire  who  made  the  earth,  the  sea,  the  heav- 
ens, the  seasons?  "  Nativity,"  you  answer.  Did 
nativity  then  produce  in  things  inanimate  such 
order  and  harmony,  but  in  us,  for  whom  these 
things  were  made,  so  much  disorder?  As  if 
one,  in  building  a  house,  should  be  careful  to 
make  it  magnificent,  but  bestow  not  a  thought 
upon  his  household.  But  who  preserves  the 
succession  of  the  seasons  ?  Who  established  the 
regular  laws  of  nature?  Who  appointed  the 
courses  of  day  and  night?  These  things  are 
superior  to  any  such  nativity.  "  But  these,"  you 
say,  "  came  to  be  of  themselves."  And  yet,  how 
can  such  a  well-ordered  system  spring  up  of 
itself? 

"  But  whence,"  you  say,  "  come  the  rich,  the 
healthy,  the  renowned,  and  how  are  some  made 
rich  by  covetousness,  some  by  inheritance,  some 
by  violence?  and  why  does  God  suffer  the 
wicked  to  be  prosperous?"  We  answer,  Be- 
cause the  retribution,  according  to  the  desert  of 
each,  does  not  take  place  here,  but  is  reserved 
for  hereafter.  Show  me  any  such  thing  taking 
place  Then  1  "  Well,"  say  you,  "  give  me  here, 
and  I  do  not  look  for  hereafter."  6  But  it  is  be- 
cause you  seek  here,  that  you  receive  not.  For 
if  when  earthly  enjoyment  is  not  within  your 
reach,  you  seek  present  things  so  eagerly  as  to 
prefer  them  to  future,  what  would  you  do  if  you 
were  in  possession  of  unmixed  pleasure  ?  God 
therefore  shows  you  that  these  things  are  noth- 
ing, and  indifferent ;  for  if  they  were  not  indif- 
ferent, He  would  not  bestow  them  on  such  men. 
You  will  own  that  it  is  a  matter  of  indifference 
whether  one  be  tall  or  short,  black  or  white  ;  so 
is  it  whether  one  be  rich  or  poor.  For,  tell  me, 
are  not  things  necessary  bestowed  on  all  equally, 
as  the  capacity  for  virtue,  the  distribution  of 
spiritual  gifts?  If  you  understood  aright  the 
mercies  of  God,  you  would  not  complain  of 
wanting  worldly  things,  whilst  you  enjoyed  these 
best  gifts  equally  with  others ;  and  knowing  that 
equal  distribution,  you  would  not  desire  superi- 

L  * 

6  Compare  Jas.  iv.  3. 


412 


WORKS   OF   ST.    CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  II. 


ority  in  the  rest.  As  if  a  servant  enjoying  from 
his  master's  bounty  food,  clothing,  and  lodging, 
and  all  other  necessaries  equally  with  his  fellow- 
servants,  should  pride  himself  upon  having  longer 
nails,  or  more  hair  upon  his  head ;  so  it  is  for 
a  Christian  to  be  elated  on  account  of  those 
things,  which  he  enjoys  only  for  a  time.  For 
this  reason  it  is,  that  God  withdraws  those  things 
from  us,  to  extinguish  this  madness,  and  transfer 
our  affections  from  them  to  heaven.  But  never- 
theless we  do  not  learn  wisdom.  As  if  a  child 
possessing  a  toy,  should  prefer  it  to  things  neces- 
sary, and  his  father,  to  lead  him  against  his  will 
to  what  was  better  for  him,  should  deprive  him 
of  his  toy ;  so  God  takes  these  things  from  us, 
that  He  may  lead  us  to  heaven.  If  you  ask  then 
why  He  permits  the  wicked  to  be  rich,  it  is 
because  they  are  not  high  in  His  esteem.  And 
if  the  righteous  too  are  rich,  it  is  rather  that  He 
allows  it  to  be,  than  that  He  makes  them  so. 


Now  these  things  we  say  superficially,  as  to  men 
not  knowing  the  Scriptures.  But  our  discourses 
would  be  unnecessary  if  you  would  believe  and 
take  heed  to  the  divine  word,  for  that  would 
teach  you  all  things.  And  that  you  may  under- 
stand that  neither  riches,  nor  health,  nor  glory, 
are  anything,  I  can  show  you  many,  who,  when 
they  might  gain  wealth,  do  not  seek  wealth; 
when  they  might  enjoy  health,  mortify  their 
bodies ;  when  they  might  rise  to  glory,  make  it 
their  aim  to  be  despised.  But  there  is  no  good 
man,  who  ever  studied  to  be  bad.  Let  us  there- 
fore desist  from  seeking  things  below,  and  let  us 
seek  heavenly  things ;  for  so  we  shall  be  able  to 
attain  them,  and  we  shall  enjoy  eternal  delights,* 
by  the  grace  and  lovingkindness  of  our  Lord 
Jesus  Christ.  To  Whom  with  the  Father  and 
the  Holy  Ghost  be  glory,  power,  and  honor, 
now,  and  ever,  and  world  without  end.    Amen. 


HOMILY    II. 


Timothy 


i-  5-7- 


a 


Now  the  end  of  the  commandment  is  charity  out  of  a 
pure  heart,  and  of  a  good  conscience,  and  of  faith 
unfeigned :  From  which  some  having  swerved  have 
turned  aside  unto  vain  jangling;  Desiring  to  be 
teachers  of  the  law;  understanding  neither  what 
they  say,  nor  whereof  they  affirm." 


Nothing  is  so  injurious  to  mankind  as  to 
undervalue  friendship * ;  and  not  to  cultivate  it 
with  the  greatest  care  ;  as  nothing,  on  the  other 
hand,  is  so  beneficial,  as  to  pursue  it  to  the 
utmost  of  our  power.  This  Christ  has  shown, 
where  He  says,  "If  two  of  you  shall  agree  on 
earth,  as  touching  anything  that  they  shall  ask, 
it  shall  be  done  for  them  of  My  Father  "  (Matt, 
xviii.  19);  and  again,  "Because  iniquity  shall 
abound,  love  shall  wax  cold."  (Matt.  xxiv.  12.) 
It  is  this  that  has  been  the  occasion  of  all  here- 
sies. For  men,  because  they  loved  not  their 
brethren,  have  envied  those  who  were  in  high 
repute,  and  from  envying,  they  have  become 
eager  for  power,  and  from  a  love  of  power  have 
introduced  heresies.  On  this  account  Paul  hav- 
ing said,  "  that  thou  mightest  charge  some  that 
they  teach  no  other  doctrine,"  now  shows  that 
the  manner  in  which  this  may  be  effected  is  by 
charity.  As  therefore  when  he  says,  "  Christ  is 
the  end  of  the  Law"  (Rom.  x.  4),  that  is,  its 
fulfillment,  and  this  is  connected  with  the  former, 

1  4>i\ia<;.  He  uses  a  term  common  to  the  Heathen  in  speaking 
of  all  mankind. 


so  this 8  commandment  is  implied  in  love.  The 
end  of  medicine  is  health,  but  where  there  is 
health,  there  is  no  need  to  make  much  ado ;  so 
where  there  is  love,  there  is  no  need  of  much 
commanding.  But  what  sort  of  love  does  he 
speak  of?  That  which  is  sincere,  which  is  not 
merely  in  words,  but  which  flows  from  the  dis- 
position, from  sentiment,  and  sympathy.  "  From 
a  pure  heart,"  he  says,  either  with  respect  to  a 
right  conversation,  or  sincere  affection.  For  an 
impure  life  too  produces  divisions.  "  For  every 
one  that  doeth  evil,  hateth  the  light."  (John 
iii.  20.)  There  is  indeed  a  friendship  even 
among  the  wicked.  Robbers  and  murderers 
may  love  one  another,  but  this  is  not  "  from  a 
good  conscience,"  not  "  from  a  pure  "  but  from 
an  impure  "  heart,"  not  from  "  faith  unfeigned," 
but  from  that  which  is  false  and  hypocritical. 
For  faith  points  out  the  truth,  and  a  sincere 
faith  produces  love,  which  he  who  truly  believes 
in  God  cannot  endure  to  lay  aside. 

Ver.  6.  "From  which  some  having  swerved 
have  turned  aside  to  vain  jangling." 

He  has  well  said,  "  swerved,"  for  it  requires 
skill,4  to  shoot  straight  and  not  beside  the  mark, 

—  - 

'  Ed.  rpo4n« «  "  food.*'    St.  Chrys.  undoubtedly  wrote  rpvtip- 
*  Rather,  perhaps.  "  the  commandment  itself,    reading  «vri)  for 
av-nj.    The  sense  is,  "  as  the  law  conducts  to  love,  and  rove  super- 
sedes the  law,  so,"  &c,  we  might  also  read  «at  tout©  cirttVy  crtgcTai 
for  k.  r.  imtivwv  «x*Tai»  which  does  away  with  all  difficulty. 
4  "x^s. 


Homily  II.] 


HOMILIES   ON   TIMOTHY. 


413 


to  have 1  the  direction  of  the  Spirit.  For  there 
are  many  things  to  turn  us  aside  from  the  right 
course,  and  we  should  look  but  to  one  object. 

Ver.  7.  "  Desiring  to  be  teachers  of  the  law." 

Here  we  see  another  cause  of  evil,  the  love 
of  power.  Wherefore  Christ  said,  "  Be  not  ye 
called  Rabbi "  (Matt,  xxiii.  8)  ;  and  the  Apostle 
again,  "  For  neither  do  they  keep  the  law,  but 
that  they  may  glory  in  your  flesh."  (Gal.  vi. 
13.)  They  desire  preeminence,  he  means,  and 
on  that  account  disregard  truth. 

"Understanding  neither  what  they  say,  nor 
whereof  they  affirm." 

Here  he  censures  them,  because  they  know 
not  the  end  and  aim  of  the  Law,  nor  the  period 
for  which  it  was  to  have  authority.  But  if  it  was 
from  ignorance,  why  is  it  called  a  sin  ?  Because 
it  was  incurred  not  only  from  their  desiring  to 
be  teachers  of  the  law,2  but  from  their  not 
retaining  love.  Nay,  and  their  very  ignorance 
arose  from  these  causes.  For  when  the  soul 
abandons  itself  to  carnal  things,  the  clearness 
of  its  vision  is  dimmed,  and  falling  from  love, 
it  drops  into  contentiousness,  and  the  eye  of 
the  mind  is  blinded.  For  he  that  is  possessed 
by  any  desire  for  these  temporal  things,  intoxi- 
cated, as  he  is,  with  passion,  cannot  be  an  im- 
partial judge  of  truth.8 

"  Not  knowing  whereof  they  affirm." 

For  it  is  probable  that  they  spoke  of  the  law, 
and  enlarged  on  its  purifications  and  other 
bodily  rites.  The  Apostle  then  forbearing  to 
censure  these,  as  either  nothing,  or  at  best  a 
shadow  and  figure  of  spiritual  things,  proceeds 
in  a  more  engaging  way  to  praise  the  law,  calling 
the  Decalogue  here  the  law,  and  by  means 
of  it  discarding  the  rest.  For  if  even  these 
precepts  punish  transgressors,  and  become  use- 
less to  us,  much  more  the  others. 

Ver.  8,  9.  "  But  we  know  that  the  law  is  good, 
if  a  man  use  it  lawfully.  Knowing  this,  that  the 
law  is  not  made  for  a  righteous  man." 

The  law,  he  seems  to  say,  is  good,  and  again, 
not  good.  What  then?  if  one  use  it  not  law- 
fully, is  it  not  good?  Nay,  even  so  it  is  good. 
But  what  he  means  is  this ;  if  any  one  fulfills  it 
in  his  actions ;  for  that  is  to  "  use  it  lawfully," 
as  here  intended.  But  when  they  expound  it 
in  their  words,  and  neglect  it  in  their  deeds, 
that  is  using  it  unlawfully.  For  such  an  one 
uses  it,  but  not  to  his  own  profit.  And  another 
way  may  be  named  besides.  What  is  it  ?  that 
the  law,  if  thou  use  it  aright,  sends  thee  to  Christ. 
For  since  its  aim  is  to  justify  man,  and  it  fails 

1  Montf.  would  insert  del,  "  so  that  we  have  need  of  the  direc- 
tion," and  so  old  Lat. 

*  i.e.  as  being  attached  to  it. 

*  So  Horace:  — 

Male  vtrum  examinat  omni*% 
Corruptus  judex. 

Ill  holds  that  judge  the  balances  of  truth, 
Who  takes  a  bribe.  —  x  Ep.  xvi.  5a. 


to  effect  this,  it  remits  us  to  Him  who  can  do 
so.  Another  way  again  of  using  the  law  law- 
fully, is  when  we  keep  it,  but  as  a  thing  super- 
fluous. And  how  as  a  thing  superfluous?  As 
the  bridle  is  properly  used,  not  by  the  prancing 
horse  that  champs  it,  but  by  that  which  wears 
it  only  for  the  sake  of  appearance,  so  he  uses 
the  law  lawfully,  who  governs  himself,  though 
not  as  constrained  by  the  letter  of  it.  He  uses 
the  law  lawfully  who  is  conscious  that  he  does 
not  need  it,  for  he  who  is  already  so  virtuous 
that  he  fulfills  it  not  from  fear  of  it,  but  from  a 
principle  of  virtue,4  uses  it  lawfully  and  safely : 
that  is,  if  one  so  use  it,  not  as  being  in  fear  of 
it,  but  having  before  his  eyes  rather  the  condem- 
nation of  conscience  than  the  punishment  here- 
after. Moreover  he  calls  him  a  righteous  man, 
who  has  attained  unto  virtue.  He  therefore 
uses  the  law  lawfully,  who  does  not  require  to 
be  instructed  by  it.  For  as  points  in  reading 
are  set  before  children ;  but  he  who  does  what 
they  direct,  without  their  aid,  from  other  knowl- 
edge, shows  more  skill,  and  is  a  better  reader ; 
so  he  who  is  above  the  law,  is  not  under  the 
schooling  of  the  law.  For  he  keeps  it  in  a  much 
higher  degree,  who  fulfills  it  not  from  fear,  but 
from  a  virtuous  inclination ;  since  he  that  fears 
punishment  does  not  fulfill  it  in  the  same  manner 
as  he  that  aims  at  reward.  He  that  is  under 
the  law  doth  it  not  as  he  that  is  above  the  law. 
For  to  live  above  the  law  is  to  use  it  lawfully. 
He  uses  it  lawfully,  and  keeps  it,  who  achieves 
things  beyond  the  law,  and  who  does  not  need 
its  instructions.  For  the  law,  for  the  most  part, 
is  prohibition  of  evil ;  now  this  alone  does  not 
make  a  man  righteous,  but  the  performance  of 
good  actions  besides.  Hence  those,  who  abstain 
from  evil  like  slaves,  do  not  come  up  to  the 
mark  of  the  law.  For  it  was  appointed  for  the 
punishment  of  transgression.  Such  men  indeed 
use  it,  but  it  is  to  dread  its  punishment.  It  is 
said,  "Wilt  thou  not  be  afraid  of  the  power? 
do  that  which  is  good  "  (Rom.  xiii.  3)  :  which 
implies,  that  the  law  threatens  punishment  only 
to  the  wicked.  But  of  what  use  is  the  law  to 
him  whose  actioas  deserve  a  crown?  as  the 
surgeon  is  of  use  only  to  him  who  hath  some 
hurt,  and  not  to  the  sound  and  healthy  man. 
"But  for  the  lawless  and  disobedient,  for  the 
ungodly  and  for  sinners."  He  calls  the  Jews 
"lawless  and  disobedient"  too.  "The  law 
(he  says)  worketh  wrath,"  that  is,  to  the  evil 
doers.  But  what  to  him  who  is  deserving  of 
reward?  "By  the  law  is  the  knowledge  of 
sin."  (Rom.  ill.  20.)  What  then  with  respect 
to  the  righteous?  "the  law  is  not  made,"  he 
says,  "  for  a  righteous  man."  Wherefore?  Be- 
cause he  is  exempted  from  its  punishment,  and 

4       Odfrnnt peccart  boni  virtutis  amors. 

Tis  love  of  virtue  makes  good  men  hate  vice.  —  Hor. 


4H 


WORKS   OF   ST.    CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  II. 


he  waits  not  to  learn  from  it  what  is  his  duty, 
since  he  has  the  grace  of  the  Spirit  within  to 
direct  him.  For  the  law  was  given  that  men 
might  be  chastened  by  fear  of  its  threatenings. 
But  the  tractable  horse  needs  not  the  curb,  nor 
the  man  that  can  dispense  with  instruction  the 
schoolmaster. 

"  But  for  the  lawless  and  disobedient,  for  the 
ungodly  and  for  sinners,  for  the  unholy  and  pro- 
fane, for  murderers  of  fathers  and  murderers  of 
mothers."  Thus  he  does  not  stop  at  the  men- 
tion of  sins  in  general,  nor  of  these  only,  but 
goes  over  the  several  kinds  of  sin,  to  shame 
men,  as  it  were,  of  being  under  the  direction  of 
the  law;  and  having  thus  particularized  some, 
he  adds  a  reference  to  those  omitted,  though 
what  he  had  enumerated  were  sufficient  to  with- 
draw men.  Of  whom  then  does  he  sav  these 
things  ?  Of  the  Jews,  for  they  were  "  murder- 
ers of  fathers  and  murderers  of  mothers  "  :  they 
were  "  profane  and  unholy,"  for  these  too  he 
means  when  he  says,  "ungodly  and  sinners," 
and  being  such,  the  law  was  necessarily  given  to 
them.  For  did  they  not  repeatedly  worship 
idols  ?  did  they  not  stone  Moses  ?  were  not  their 
hands  imbrued  in  the  blood  of  their  kindred? 
Do  not  the  prophets  constantly  accuse  them  of 
these  things?  But  to  those  who  are  instructed 
by  a  heavenly  philosophy,  these  commandments 
are  superfluous.  "  For  murderers  of  fathers  and 
murderers  of  mothers,  for  manslayers,  for 
whoremongers,  for  them  that  defile  themselves 
with  mankind,  for  menstealers,  for  Hers,  for  per- 
jured persons,  and  if  there  be  any  other  thing 
that  is  contrary  to  sound  doctrine  "  ;  for  all  the 
things  which  he  had  mentioned  were  the  pas- 
sions of  a  corrupted  soul,  and  contrary,  there- 
fore, to  sound  doctrine. 

Ver.  ii."  According  to  the  glorious  Gospel 
of  the  blessed  God,  which  was  committed  to  my 
trust." 

Thus  the  Law  is  still  necessary  for  the  confir- 
mation of  the  Gospel,  yet  to  those  who  obey  it 
is  unnecessary.  And  he  calls  the  Gospel  "  glo- 
rious." There  were  some  who  were  ashamed 
of  its  persecutions,  and  of  the  sufferings  of 
Christ,  and  so  for  the  sake  of  these,  as  well  as 
for  others,  he  has  called  it  "  the  glorious  Gos- 
pel," thus  showing  that  the  sufferings  of  Christ 
are  our  glory.  And  perhaps  he  glances  too  at 
the  future.  For  if  our  present  state  is  exposed 
to  shame  and  reproach,  it  will  not  be  so  here- 
after ;  and  it  is  to  things  future,  and  not  to 
things  present,  that  the  Gospel  belongs.  Why 
then  did  the  Angel  say,  "  Behold,  I  bring  you 
good  tidings  of  great  joy,  for  unto  you  is  born  a 
Saviour  "?  (Luke  ii.  10.)  Because  He  was  born 
to  be  their  Saviour,  though  His  miracles  did  not 
commence  from  His  birth.  "  According  to  the 
Gospel,"  he  saith,  "  of  the  blessed  God."     The 


glory l  he  means  is  either  that  of  the  service  of 
God,  or,  in  that  if  present  things  are  filled  with 
its  glory,  yet  much  more  will  things  future  be  so ; 
when  "  His  enemies  shall  be  put  under  His 
feet "  (i  Cor.  xv.  25),  when  there  shall  be  noth- 
ing opposed,  when  the  just  shall  behold  all  those 
blessed  things,  which  "  eye  hath  not  seen,  nor 
ear  heard,  and  which  hath  not  entered  into  the 
heart  of  man."  (1  Cor.  ii.  9.)  "For  I  will" 
says  our  Saviour,  "  that  they  also  may  be  with 
Me,  where  I  am,  that  they  may  behold  My  glory, 
which  Thou  hast  given  Me."     (John  xvii.  24.) 

Moral.  Let  us  then  learn  who  these  are,  and 
let  us  esteem  them  blessed,  considering  what  fe- 
licities they  will  then  enjoy,  of  what  light  and 
glory  they  will  then  participate.  The  glory  of 
this  world  is  worthless  and  not  enduring,  or  if  it 
abides,  it  abides  but  till  death,  and  after  that  is 
wholly  extinguished.  For  "  his  glory,"  it  says, 
"shall  not  descend  after  him."  (Ps.  xlix.  17.) 
And  with  many  it  lasts  not  even  to  the  end  of 
life.  But  no  such  thing  is  to  be  thought  of  in 
that  glory;  it  abides,  and  will  have  no  end. 
For  such  are  the  things  of  God,  enduring,  and 
above  all  change  or  end.  For  the  glory  of  that 
state  is  not  from  without,  but  from  within.  I 
mean,  it  consists  not  in  a  multitude  of  servants, 
or  of  chariots,  nor  in  costly  garments.  Inde- 
pendently of  these  things,  the  man  himself  is 
clothed  with  glory.  Here,  without  these  things, 
the  man  appears  naked.  In  the  baths,  we  see 
the  illustrious,  the  undistinguished,  and  the  base, 
alike  bare.  Often  have  the  great  been  exposed 
to  danger  in  public,  being  left  on  some  occasion 
by  their  servants.  But  in  that  world  men  carry 
their  glory  about  with  them,  and  the  Saints,  like 
the  Angels,  wherever  they  appear,  have  their 
glory  in  themselves.  Yea  rather  as  the  sun 
needs  no  vestures,  and  requires  no  foreign  aid, 
but  wherever  he  appears,  his  glory  at  once 
shines  forth ;  so  shall  it  then  be. 

Let  us  then  pursue  that  glory,  than  which 
nothing  is  more  venerable  ;  and  leave  the  glory  of 
the  world,  as  beyond  anything  worthless.  "  Boast 
not  of  thy  clothing  and  raiment."  (Ecclus.  xi. 
4.)  This  was  the  advice  given  of  old  to  the  sim- 
ple. Indeed  the  dancer,  the  harlot,  the  player, 
are  arrayed  in  a  gayer  and  more  costly  robe 
than  thou.  And  besides,  this  boasting  were  of 
that,  which  if  but  moths  attack,  they"  can  rob  thee 
of  its  enjoyment.  Dost  thou  see  what  an  un- 
stable thing  it  is,  this  glory  of  the  present  life? 
Thou  pridest  thyself  upon  that  which  insects 
make  and  destroy.  For  Indian  insects,  it  is 
said,  spin  those  fine  threads  of  which  your  robes 
are  made.  But  rather  seek  a  clothing  woven 
from  things  above,  an  admirable  and  radiant 
vesture,  raiment  of  real  gold ;  of  gold  not  dug 

1  It  is  literally,  "  The  Gospel  of  the  glory  of  the  Blessed  God." 
Corap.  Rom.  ix.  4,  and  viii.  30;  2  Cor.  iii.  7,  seqq.;  Heb.  ix.  if  14. 


Homily  II.] 


HOMILIES   ON   TIMOTHY. 


415 


by  malefactors'  hands  out  of  the  mine,  but  the 
produce  of  virtue.  Let  us  clothe  ourselves  with 
a  robe  not  the  manufacture  of  poor  men  or 
slaves,  but  wrought  by  our  Lord  Himself.  But 
<^your  garments,  you  say,  are  in- wrought  with 
gold  !  And  what  is  that  to  thee  ?  He  that 
,  wrought  it,  not  he  that  wears  it,  is  the  object  of 
Vadmiration,  for  there  it  is  really  due.  It  is  not 
the  frame  on  which  the  garment  is  stretched  at 
the  fuller's,  but  the  maker  of  it,  that  is  admired. 
Yet  the  block  wears  it,  and  has  it  bound  on  itself. 
And  as  that  wears  it,  but  not  for  use,  even  so  do 
some  of  these  women,  for  the  benefit  of  the  gar- 
ment, to  air  it,  they  say,  that  it  may  not  be 
moth-eaten  !  Is  it  not  then  the  extreme  of  folly 
to  be  solicitous  about  a  thing  so  worthless,  to  do 

(anything  whatever,  to  risk  your  salvation  for  it, 
to  make  a  mock  at  Hell,  to  set  God  at  defiance, 
to  overlook  Christ  hungering?  Talk  not  of  the 
precious  spices  of  India,  Arabia,  and  Persia,  the 
moist  and  the  dry,  the  perfumes  and  unguents, 
so  costly  and  so  useless.  Why,  O  woman,  dost 
thou  lavish  perfumes  upon  a  body  full  of  im- 
purity within?  why  spend  on  what  is  offensive, 
as  if  one  should  waste  perfumes  upon  dirt,  or 
distill  balms  upon  a  brick.  There  is,  if  you  de- 
sire it,  a  precious  ointment  and  a  fragrance,  with 
which  you  might  anoint  your  soul ;  not  brought 
from  Arabia,  or  Ethiopia,  nor  from  Persia,  but 
from  heaven  itself;  purchased  not  by  gold,  but 
by  a  virtuous  will,  and  by  faith  unfeigned.  Buy 
this  perfume,  the  odor  of  which  is  able  to  fill 
the  world.  It  was  of  this  the  Apostles  savored. 
"  For  we  are  (he  says)  a  sweet  savor,  to  some 
of  death,  to  others  of  life."  (2  Cor.  ii.  15,  16.) 
And  what  means  this  ?  That  it  is  as  they  say, 
that  the  swine  is  suffocated  by  perfumes  !  But 
this  spiritual  fragrance  scented  not  only  the 
bodies  but  the  garments  of  the  Apostles ;  and 
Paul's  garments  were  so  impregnated  with  it, 
that  they  cast  out  devils.  What  balmy  leaf, 
what  cassia,  what  myrrh  so  sweet  or  so  effica- 
cious as  this  perfume  ?  For  if  it  put  devils  to 
flight,  what  could  it  not  effect?  With  this  oint- 
ment let  us  furnish  ourselves.  And  the  grace 
of  the  Spirit  will  provide  it  through  almsgiving. 
Of  these  we  shall  savor,  when  we  go  into  the 
other  world.  And  as  here,  he l  that  is  perfumed 
with  sweet  odors  draws  upon  himself  the  notice 
of  all,  and  whether  at  the  bath,  or  the  assembly, 
or  any  other  concourse  of  men,  all  follow  him, 
and  observe  him ;  so,  in  that  world,  when  souls 
come  in  that  are  fragrant  with  this  spiritual  savor, 
all  arise  and  make  room.  And  even  here  devils 
and  all  vices  are  afraid  to  approach  it,  and  can- 
not endure  it,  for  it  chokes  them.  Let  us  then 
not  bear  about  us  that  perfume  which  is  a  mark 
of  effeminacy,  but  this,  which  is  a  mark  of  man- 

1  al.  she,  &c. 


My 

•  5-; 


hood,  which  is  truly  admirable,  which  fills  us 
with  a  holy  confidence.  This  is  a  spice  which 
is  not  the  produce  of  the  earth,  but  springs  from 
virtue,  which  withers  not,  but  blooms  for  ever. 
This  is  it  that  renders  those  who  possess  it 
honorable.  With  this  we  are  anointed  at  our 
Baptism,  then  we  savor  sweetly  of  it;  but  it 
must  be  by  our  care  afterwards  that  we  retain 
the  savor.  Of  old  the  Priests  were  anointed 
with  ointment,  as  an  emblem  of  the  virtue,  the 
fragrance  of  which  a  Priest  should  diffuse  around 
him. 

But  nothing  is  more  offensive  than  the  savor 
of  sin,  which  made  the  Psalmist  say, 
wounds  stink  and  are  corrupt."  (Ps.  xxxviii. 
For  sin  is  more  foul  than  putrefaction  itself. 
What,  for  instance,  is  more  offensive  than  forni- 
cation ?  And  if  this  is  not  perceived  at  the  time 
of  its  commission,  yet,  after  it  is  committed,  its 
offensive  nature,  the  impurity  contracted  in  it, 
and  the  curse,8  and  the  abomination  of  it  is  per- 
ceived. So  it  is  with  all  sin.  Before  it  is  com- 
mitted it  has  something  of  pleasure,  but  after  its 
commission,  the  pleasure  ceases  and  fades  away, 
and  pain  and  shame  succeed.  But  with  right- 
eousness it  is  the  reverse.  At  the  beginning  it 
is  attended  with  toil,  but  in  the  end  with  pleasure 
and  repose.  But  even  here,  as  in  the  one  case 
the  pleasure  of  sin  is  no  pleasure,  because  of  the 
expectation  of  disgrace  and  punishment,  so  in 
the  other  the  toil  is  not  felt  as  toil,  by  reason  of 
the  hope  of  reward.  And  what  is  the  pleasure 
of  drunkenness?  The  poor  gratification  of 
drinking,  and  hardly  that.  For  when  insensi- 
bility follows,  and  the  man  sees  nothing  that  is 
before  him,  and  is  in  a  worse  state  than  a  mad- 
man, what  enjoyment  remains?  Nay,  one  might 
well  say  there  is  no  pleasure  in  fornication  itself. 
For  when  passion  has  deprived  the  soul  of  its 
judgment,  can  there  be  any  real  delights?  As 
well  might  we  say  that  the  itch  is  a  pleasure  !  I 
should  call  that  true  pleasure,  when  the  soul  is 
not  affected  by  passion,  not  agitated  nor  over- 
powered by  the  body.  For  what  pleasure  can 
it  be  to  grind  the  teeth,  to  distort  the  eyes,  to 
be  irritated  and  inflamed  beyond  decency?  But 
so  far  is  it  from  being  pleasant,  that  men  hasten 
to  escape  from  it,  and  when  it  is  over  are  in 
pain.  But  if  it  were  pleasure,  they  would  wish 
not  to  escape  from  it,  but  to  continue  it.  It  has 
therefore  only  the  name  of  pleasure. 

But  not  such  are  the  pleasures  enjoyed  by  us ; 
they  are  truly  delightful,  they  do  not  agitate  nor 
inflame.  They  leave  the  soul  free,  and  cheer 
and  expand  it.  Such  was  the  pleasure  of  Paul 
when  he  said,  "  In  this  I  rejoice,  yea,  and  I  will 
rejoice";  and  again,  "Rejoice  in  the  Lord 
always."     (Phil.  i.  18,  and  iv.  4.)     For  sinful 

1  Sav.  ayoc,  Ben.  oAyo*. 


416 


WORKS   OF   ST.    CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  III. 


pleasure  is  attended  with  shame  and  condemna- 
tion ;  it  is  indulged  in  secret,  and  is  attended 
with  infinite  uneasiness.  But  from  all  these  the 
true  pleasure  is  exempt.     This  then  let  us  pur- 


sue, that  we  may  attain  those  good  things  to 
come,  through  the  grace  and  mercy  of  our  Lord 
Jesus  Christ,  to  whom,  &c. 


HOMILY   III. 


i  Timothy  i.  12-14. 


"  And  I  thank  Christ  Jesus  our  Lord,  who  hath  enabled 
me,  for  that  he  counted  me  faithful,  putting  me  into 
the  ministry  [R.  V. :  to  his  service,  tis  liatcoviav'] ; 
who  was  before  a  blasphemer,  and  a  persecutor, 
and  injurious :  but  I  obtained  mercy,  because  I  did 
it  ignorantly  in  unbelief.  And  the  grace  of  our  Lord 
was  exceeding  abundant,  with  faith  and  love  which 
is  in  Christ  Jesus." 


The  advantages  arising  from  humility  are  gen- 
erally acknowledged,  and  yet  it  is  a  thing  not 
easily  to  be  met  with.  There  is  affectation  of 
humble  talking  enough  and  to  spare,  but  hum- 
bleness of  mind  is  nowhere  to  be  found.  This 
quality  was  so  cultivated  by  the  blessed  Paul, 
that  he  is  ever  looking  out  for  inducements  to 
be  humble.  They  who  are  conscious  to  them- 
selves of  great  merits  must  struggle  much  with 
themselves  if  they  would  be  humble.  And  he 
too  was  one  likely  to  be  under  violent  tempta- 
tions, his  own  good  conscience  swelling  him  up 
like  a  gathering  humor.  Observe  therefore  his 
method  in  this  place.  "I  was  intrusted,"  he 
had  said,  "with  the  glorious  Gospel  of  God,  of 
which  they  who  still  adhere  to  the  law  have  no 
right  to  partake ;  for  it  is  now  opposed  to  the 
Gospel,  and  their  difference  is  such,  that  those 
who  are  actuated  by  the  one,  are  as  yet 
unworthy  to  partake  of  the  other ;  as  we 
should  say,  that  those  who  require  punish- 
ments, and  chains,  have  no  right  to  be  admitted 
into  the  train  of  philosophers.0  Being  filled  there- 
fore with  high  thoughts,  and  having  used  mag- 
nificent expressions,  he  at  once  depresses  him- 
self, and  engages  others  also  to  do  the  like. 
Having  said  therefore  that  "  the  Gospel  was 
committed  to  his  trust "  ;  lest  this  should  seem 
to  be  said  from  pride,  he  checks  himself  at 
once,  adding  by  way  of  correction,  "  I  thank 
Christ  Jesus  our  Lord,  who  hath  enabled  me, 
for  that  He  counted  me  faithful,  putting  me  into 
the  ministry."  Thus  everywhere,  we  see,  he 
conceals  his  own  merit,  and  ascribes  everything 
to  God,  yet  so  far  only,  as  not  to  take  away  free 
will.  For  the  unbeliever  might  perhaps  say, 
If  everything  is  of  God,  and  we  contribute  noth- 
ing of  ourselves,  while  He  turns  us,  as  if  we 


were  mere  wood  and  stone,  from  wickedness  to 
the  love  of  wisdom,  why  then  did  He  make 
Paul  such  as  he  was,  and  not  Judas?  To  re- 
move this  objection,  mark  the  prudence  of  his 
expression,  "  Which  was  committed,"  he  says, 
"to  my  trust."  This  was  his  own  excellence 
and  merit,  but  not  wholly  his  own ;  for  he  says, 
"  I  thank  Christ  Jesus,  who  enabled  me."  This 
is  God's  part :  then  his  own  again,  "  Because 
He  counted  me  faithful."  Surely  because  he 
would  be  serviceable  of  his  own  part. 

Ver.  13.  "Putting  me  into  his  service,  who 
was  before  a  blasphemer,  and  a  persecutor,  and 
injurious ;  but  I  obtained  mercy,  because  I  did 
it  ignorantly  in  unbelief." 

Thus  we  see  him  acknowledge  both  his  own 
part  and  that  of  God,  and  whilst  he  ascribes  the 
greater  part  to  the  providence  of  God,  he  exten- 
uates his  own,  yet  so  far  only,  as  we  said  before, 
as  was  consistent  with  free  will.  And  what  is 
this,  " Who  enabled  me"?  I  will  tell  you.  He 
had  so  heavy  a  burden  to  sustain,  that  he  needed 
much  aid  from  above.  For  think  what  it  was 
to  be  exposed  to  daily  insults,  and  mockeries, 
and  snares,  and  dangers,  scoffs,  and  reproaches, 
and  deaths ;  and  not  to  faint,  or  slip,  or  turn 
backward,  but  though  assaulted  every  day  with 
darts  innumerable,  to  bear  up  manfully,  and  re- 
main firm  and  imperturbable.  This  was  the 
effect  of  no  human  power,  and  yet  not  of  Divine 
influence  alone,  but  of  his  own  resolution  also. 
For  that  Christ  chose  him  with  a  foreknowledge 
of  what  he  would  be,  is  plain  from  the  testimony 
He  bore  to  him  before  the  commencement  of 
his  preaching.  "  He  is  a  chosen  vessel  unto 
me,  to  bear  my  name  before  the  Gentiles  and 
kings."  (Acts  ix.  15.)  For  as  those  who  bear 
the  royal  standard  in  war 1  require  both  strength 
and  address,  that  they  may  not  let  it  fall  into  the 
hands  of  the  enemy ;  so  those  who  sustain  the 
name  of  Christ,  not  only  in  war  but  in  peace, 
need  a  mighty  strength,  to  preserve  it  uninjured 
from  the  attacks  of  accusers.     Great  indeed  is 


l  One  copy  has,  "  which  is  usually  called  Laburam,"  perhaps  • 
mistake  for  I>abarum,  but  Socrates  has  Laborum.  The  first  stan- 
dard known  to  have  been  so  called  was  that  of  Constantine,  which 
bore  the  Christian  symbol.     [See  Schaff,  Church  HiH.  III.  S7.J 


Homily  III.] 


HOMILIES   ON   TIMOTHY. 


417 


the  strength  required  to  bear  the  name  of  Christ* 
and  to  sustain  it  well,  and  bear  the  Cross.  For 
he  who  in  action,  or  word,  or  thought,  does 
anything  unworthy  of  Christ,  does  not  sustain 
His  name,  and  has  not  Christ  dwelling  in  him. 
For  he  that  sustains  that  name  bears  it  in  tri- 
umph, not  in  the  concourse  of  men,  but  through 
the  very  heavens,  while  all  angels  stand  in  awe, 
and  attend  upon  him,  and  admire  him. 

"  I  thank  the  Lord,  who  hath  enabled  me." 
Observe  how  he  thanks  God  even  for  that  which 
was  his  own  part.  For  he  acknowledges  it  as  a 
favor  from  Him  that  he  was  "  a  chosen  vessel." 
For  this,  O  blessed  Paul,  was  thy  own  part. 
"  For  God  is  no  respecter  of  persons." l  But  I 
thank  Him  that  he  "  thought  me  worthy  of  this 
ministry."  For  this  is  a  proof  that  He  esteemed 
me  faithful.  The  steward  in  a  house  is  not  only 
thankful  to  his  master  that  he  is  trusted,  but 
considers  it  as  a  sign  that  he  holds  him  more 
faithful  than  others :  so  it  is  here.  Then  ob- 
serve how  he  magnifies  the  mercy  and  loving- 
kindness  of  God,  in  describing  his  former  life, 
"  who  was  formerly,"  he  says,  "  a  blasphemer, 
and  a  persecutor,  and  injurious."  And  when  he 
speaks  of  the  still  unbelieving  Jews,  he  rather 
extenuates  their  guilt.  "  For  I  bear  them  record 
that  they  have  a  zeal  for  God,  but  not  according 
to  knowledge."  (Rom.  x.  2.)  But  of  himself  he 
says,  "  Who  was  a  blasphemer  and  a  persecu- 
tor." Observe  his  lowering  of  himself!  So 
free  was  he  from  self-love,  so  full  of  humility, 
that  he  is  not  satisfied  to  call  himself  a  perse- 
cutor and  a  blasphemer,  but  he  aggravates  his 
guilt,  showing  that  it  did  not  stop  with  himself, 
that  it  was  not  enough  that  he  was  a  blasphemer, 
but  in  the  madness  of  his  blasphemy  he  perse- 
cuted those  who  were  willing  to  be  godly.2 

"  But  I  obtained  mercy  because  I  did  it  igno- 
rantly  in  unbelief." 

Why  then  did  other  Jews  not  obtain  mercy? 
Because  what  they  did,  they  did  not  ignorantly, 
but  willfully,  well  knowing  what  they  did.  For 
this  we  have  the  testimony  of  the  Evangelist. 
"  Many  of  the  Jews  believed  on  Him,  but  be- 
cause of  the  Pharisees  they  did  not  confess  Him. 
For  they  loved  the  praise  of  men  more  than  the 
praise  of  God."  (John  xii.  42,  43.)  And  Christ 
again  said  to  them,  "  How  can  ye  believe,  who 
receive  honor  one  of  another  "  (John  v.  44)  ? 
and  the  parents  of  the  blind  man  "said  these 
things  for  fear  of  the  Jews,  lest  they  should  be 
put  out  of  the  synagogue."  (John  ix.  22.)  Nay 
the  Jews  themselves  said,  "  Perceive  ye  how  we 
avail  nothing?  behold,  the  world  is  gone  after 
Him."     (John   xii.    19.)     Thus   their   love   of 

1  He  would  be  a  respecter  of  persons  who,  without  regard  to  a 
man's  qualities,  should  arbitrarily  (or  on  external  grounds,  such  as 
birth,  wealth,  &c.)  prefer  him  to  others;  God  therefore  does  not  do 
this.     Rom.  ii.  n  ;  Col.  iii.  25;  Acts  x.  34. 

*  ewrt fitly,  "  to  worship  aright." 


power  was  everywhere  in  their  way.  When 
they  admitted  that  no  one  can  forgive  sins  but 
God  only,  and  Christ  immediately  did  that  very 
thing,8  which  they  had  confessed  to  be  a  sign 
of  divinity,  this  could  not  be  a  case  of  ignorance. 
But  where  was  Paul  then  ?  Perhaps  one  should 
say  he  was  sitting  at  the  feet  of  Gamaliel,  and 
took  no  part  with  the  multitude  who  conspired 
against  Jesus :  for  Gamaliel  does  not  appear  to 
have  been  an  ambitious  man.  Then  how  is  it 
that  afterwards  Paul  was  found  joining  with  the 
multitude?  He  saw  the  doctrine  growing,  and 
on  the  point  of  prevailing,  and  being  generally 
embraced.  For  in  the  lifetime  of  Christ,  the 
disciples  consorted  with  Him,  and  afterwards 
with  their  teachers,4  but  when  they  were  com- 
pletely separated,  Paul  did  not  act  as  the  other 
Jews  did,  from  the  love  of  power,  but  from  zeal. 
For  what  was  the  motive  of  his  journey  to 
Damascus?  He  thought  the  doctrine  perni- 
cious, and  was  afraid  that  the  preaching  of  it 
would  spread  everywhere.  But  with  the  Jews 
it  was  no  concern  for  the  multitude,  but  the 
love  of  power,  that  influenced  their  actions. 
Hence  they  say,  "  The  Romans  will  come  and 
take  away  both  our  place  and  nation."  (John 
xi.  48.)  What  fear  was  this  that  agitated  them, 
but  that  of  man  ?  But  it  is  worthy  of  enquiry, 
how  one  so  skillful  in  the  law  as  Paul  could  be 
ignorant?  For  it  is  he  who  says,  "which  He 
had  promised  before  by  His  holy  prophets." 
(Rom.  iv.  2.)  How  is  it  then  that  thou  knowest 
not,  thou  who  art  zealous  of  the  law  of  their 
fathers,  who  wert  brought  up  at  the  feet  of 
Gamaliel?  Yet  they  who  spent  their  days  on 
lakes  and  rivers,  and  the  very  publicans,  have 
embraced  the  Gospel,  whilst  thou  that  studiest 
the  law  art  persecuting  it !  It  is  for  this  he 
condemns  himself,  saying,  "I  am  not  meet  to 
be  called  an  Apostle."  (i  Cor.  ix.  9.)  It  is 
for  this  he  confesses  his  ignorance,  which  was 
produced  by  unbelief.  For  this  cause,  he  says, 
that  he  obtained  "  mercy."  What  then  does  he 
mean  when  he  says,  "  He  counted  me  faithful "  ? 
He  would  give  up  no  right  of  his  Master's  :  even 
his  own  part  he  ascribed  to  Him,  and  assumed 
nothing  to  himself,  nor  claimed  for  his  own  the 
glory  which  was  due  to  God.  Hence  in  another 
place  we  find  him  exclaiming,  "  Sirs,  why  do  ye 
these  things  to  us?  we  also  are  men  of  like 
passions  with  you."  (Acts  xiv.  15.)  So  again, 
"  He  counted  me  faithful."  And  again,  "  I 
labored  more  abundantly  than  they  all,  yet  not 
I,  but  the  grace  of  God  which  was  with  me." 
(1  Cor.  xv.  10.)  And  again,  "It  is  He  that 
worketh  in  us  both  to  will  and  to  do."  (Phil, 
ii.  13.)  Thus  in  acknowledging  that  he  "ob- 
tained mercy,"  he  owns  that  he  deserved  pun- 

s  i.e.  proved  that  He  had  done  it,  by  a  direct  appeal  to  God. 
*  i.e.  Jewish  teachers. 


4i8 


WORKS   OF   ST.   CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  IIL 


ishment,  since  mercy  is  for  such.  And  again 
in  another  place  he  says  of  the  Jews,  "  Blindness 
in  part' is  happened  to  Israel."     (Rom.  xi.  25.) 

Ver.  14.  "And  the  grace  of  our  Lord  was 
exceeding  abundant  with  faith  and  love  which 
is  in  Christ  Jesus." 

This  is  added,  lest  hearing  that  he  obtained 
mercy,  we  should  understand  by  it  only,  that 
being  deserving  of  punishment,  as  a  persecutor 
and  blasphemer,  nevertheless  he  was  not  pun- 
ished. But  mercy  was  not  confined  to  this,  that 
punishment  was  riot  inflicted  ;  many  other  great 
favors  are  implied  by  it.  For  not  only  has  God 
released  us  from  the  impending  punishment,  but 
He  has  made  us  "  righteous  "  too,  and  "  sons," 
and  " brethren,"  and  "  heirs,"  and  "joint- heirs." 
Therefore  it  is  he  says,  that  "  grace  was  exceed- 
ing abundant."  For  the  gifts  bestowed  were 
beyond  mercy,  since  they  are  not  such  as  would 
come  of  mercy  only,  but  of  affection  and  exces- 
sive love.  Having  thus  enlarged  upon  the  love 
of  God  which,  not  content  with  showing  mercy 
to  a  blasphemer  and  persecutor,  conferred  upon 
him  other  blessings  in  abundance,  he  has  guarded 
against  that  error  of  the  unbelievers  which  takes 
away  free  will,  by  adding,  "  with  faith  and  love 
which  is  in  Christ  Jesus."  Thus  much  only,  he 
says,  did  we  contribute.  We  have  believed  that 
He  is  able  to  save  us. 

Moral.  Let  us  then  love  God  through  Christ. 
What  means  " through  Christ"?  That  it  is  He, 
and  not  the  Law,  who  has  enabled  us  to  do  this. 
Observe  what  blessings  we  owe  to  Christ,  and 
what  to  the  Law.  And  he  says  not  merely  that 
grace  has  abounded,  but  "abounded  exceed- 
ingly," in  bringing  at  once  to  the  adoption  those 
who  deserved  infinite  punishment. 

And  observe  again  that  "in"1  is  used  for 
"  through." l  For  not  only  faith  is  necessary,  but 
love.  Since  there  are  many  still  who  believe 
that  Christ  is  God,  who  yet  love  Him  not,  nor 
act  like  those  who  love  Him.  For  how  is  it 
when  they  prefer  everything  to  Him,  money, 
nativity,  fate,  augury,  divinations,  omens  ?  When 
we  live  in  defiance  of  Him,  pray,  where  is  our 
love?  Has  any  one  a  warm  and  affectionate 
friend  ?  Let  him  love  Christ  but  equally.  So, 
if  no  more,  let  him  love  Him  who  gave  His  Son 
for  us  His  enemies,  who  had  no  merits  of  our 
own.  Merits  did  I  say?  who  had  committed 
numberless  sins,  who  had  dared  Him  beyond  all 
daring,  and  without  cause  !  yet  He,  after  num- 
berless instances  of  goodness  and  care,  did  not 
even  then  cast  us  off.  At  the  very  time  when 
we  did  Him  the  greatest  wrong,  then  did  He 
give  His  Son  for  us.  And  still  we,  after  so  great 
benefits,  after  being  made  His  friends,  and 
counted  worthy  through  Him  of  all  blessings, 

1  iv  —  61a  —  see  Horn.  i. 


have  not  loved  Him  as  our  friend  !  *  What  hope 
then  can  be  ours  ?  You  shudder  perhaps  at  the 
word,  but  I  would  that  you  shuddered  at  the 
fact !  What?  How  shall  it  appear  that  we  do 
not  love  God  even  as  our  friends,  you  say?  I 
will  endeavor  to  show  you  —  and  would  that  my 
words  were  groundless,  and  to  no  purpose  !  but 
I  am  afraid  they  are  borne  out  by  facts.  For 
consider :  friends,  that  are  truly  friends,  will 
often  suffer  loss  for  those  they  love.  But  for 
Christ,  no  one  will  suffer  loss,  or  even  be  con- 
tent with  his  present  state.  For  a  friend  we 
can  readily  submit  to  insults,  and  undertake 
quarrels;  but  for  Christ,  no  one  can  endure 
enmity  :  and  the  saying  is,  "  Be  loved  for  noth- 
ing—  but  be  not  hated  for  nothing." 

None  of  us  would  fail  to  relieve  a  friend  who 
was   hungering,  but  when  Christ  comes   to  us 
from  day  to  day,  and  asks  no  great  matter,  but 
only  bread,  we  do  not  even  regard  him,  yea 
though  we  are  nauseously  over  full,  and  swollen 
with  gluttony :    though  our  breath  betrays  the 
wine  of  yesterday,  and  we  live  in  luxury,  and 
waste  our  substance   on  harlots   and  parasites 
and  flatterers,  and   even   on   monsters,  idiots, 
and  dwarfs ;  for  men  convert  the  natural  defects 
of  such   into   matter   for  amusement.      Again, 
friends,  that  are  truly  such,  we  do  not  envy,  nor 
are  mortified  at  their  success,  yet  we  feel  this 
toward  (the  minister  of)3  Christ,  and  our  friend- 
ship for  men  is  seen  to  be  more  powerful  than 
the  fear  of  God,  for  the  envious  and  the  insin- 
cere plainly  respect  men  more  than  God.    And 
how  is  this  ?    God  sees  the  heart,  yet  man  does 
not  forbear  to  practice  deceit  in  His  sight ;  yet 
if  the  same  man  were  detected  in  deceit  by 
men,  he  thinks  himself  undone,  and  blushes  for 
shame.     And  why  speak  of  this  ?    If  a  friend  be 
in  distress,  we  visit  him,  and  should  fear  to  be 
condemned,  if  we  deferred  it  for  a  little  time. 
But  we  do  not  visit  Christ,  though  He  die  again 
and  again  in  prison ;    nay,  if  we  have  friends 
among  the  faithful,  we  visit  them,  not  because 
they  are  Christians,  but  because  they  are  our 
friends.    Thus  we  do  nothing  from  the  fear  or 
the  love  of  God,  but  some  things  from  friend- 
ship, some  from  custom.    When  we  see  a  friend 
depart  on  travel,  we  weep  and  are  troubled,  and 
if  we  see  his  death,  we  bewail  him,  though  we 
know  that  we  shall  not  be  long  separated,  that 
he  will  be  restored  to  us  at  the  Resurrection. 
But  though  Christ  departs  from  us,  or  rather  we 
reject  Him  daily,  we  do  not  grieve,  nor  think  it 
strange,  to  injure,  to  offend,  to  provoke  Him  by 
doing  what  is  displeasing  to  Him ;  and  the  fear- 
ful thing  is  not  that  we  do  not  treat  Him  as  a 
friend  ;  for  I  will  show  that  we  even  treat  Him  as 

1  See  next  paragraph,  and  Horn,  on  Stat.  XX.  and  Herbert's 
Poems,  No.  LXVIII. 
3  See  on  Rom.  Horn. 


Homily  IV.] 


HOMILIES   ON   TIMOTHY. 


419 


an  enemy.  How,  do  you  ask  ?  because  "  the  car- 
nal mind  is  enmity  against  God/'  as  Paul  has  said, 
and  this  we  always  carry  about  us.  And  we  per- 
secute Christ,  when  He  advances  toward  us,  and 
comes  to  our  very  doors.1  For  wicked  actions  in 
effect  do  this,  and  every  day  we  subject  him  to 
insults  by  our  covetousness  and  our  rapacity. 
And  does  any  one  by  preaching  His  word,  and 
benefiting  His  Church,  obtain  a  good  reputa- 
tion? Then  he  is  the  object  of  envy,  because 
he  does  the  work  of  God.  And  we  think  that 
we  envy  him,  but  our  envy  passes  on  to  Christ. 
We  affect  to  wish  the  benefit  to  come  not  from 
others,  but  from  ourselves.  But  this  cannot  be 
for  Christ's  sake,  but  for  our  own  :  otherwise,  it 
would  be  a  matter  of  indifference,  whether  the 
good  were  done  by  others  or  ourselves.  If  a 
physician  found  himself  unable  to  cure  his  son, 
who  was  threatened  with  blindness,  would  he  re- 
ject the  aid  of  another,  who  was  able  to  effect  the 
cure?  Far  from  it !  "Let  my  son  be  restored," 
he  would  almost  say  to  him,  "  whether  it  is  to  be 
by  you  or  by  me."  And  why?  Because  he 
would  not  consider  himself,  but  what  was  bene- 
ficial to  his  son.  So,  were  our  regard  "  to  Christ," 
it  would  lead  us  to  say,  "  Let  good  be  done, 
whether  by  ourselves  or  by  any  other."  As  Paul 
said,  "  Whether  in  pretense  or  in  truth,  Christ  is 
preached."  (Phil.  i.  18).  In  the  same  spirit 
Moses  answered,  when  some  would  have  excited 
his  displeasure  against  Eldad  and  Modad,  be- 


cause they  prophesied,  "Enviest  thou  for  my 
sake?  Would  God  that  all  the  Lord's  people 
were  prophets  !  "  (Num.  xi.  29.)  These  jeal- 
ous feelings  proceed  from  vainglory ;  and  are 
they  not  those  of  opponents  and  enemies  ?  Doth 
any  one  speak  ill  of  you?  Love  him  !  It  is 
impossible,  you  say.  Nay,  if  you  will,  it  is  quite 
possible.  For  if  you  love  him  only  who  speaks 
well  of  you,  what  thanks  have  you  ?  It  is  not 
for  the  Lord's  sake,  but  for  the  sake  of  the  man's 
kind  speech  that  you  do  it.  Has  any  one  in- 
jured you  ?  Do  him  good  !  For  in  benefiting 
him  who  has  benefited  you  there  is  little  merit. 
Have  you  been  deeply  wronged  and  suffered 
loss  ?  Make  a  point  of  requiting  it  with  the  con- 
trary. Yes,  I  entreat  you.  Let  this  be  the  way 
we  do  our  own  part.  Let  us  cease  from  hating 
and  injuring  our  enemies.  He  commands  us 
"to  love  our  enemies"  (Matt.  v.  44)  :  but  we 
persecute  Him  while  He  loves  us.  God  forbid  ! 
we  all  say  in  words,  but  not  so  in  deeds.  So 
darkened  are  our  minds  by  sin,  that  we  tolerate 
in  our  actions  what  in  words  we  think  intolera- 
ble. Let  us  desist  then  from  things  that  are 
injurious  and  ruinous  to  our  salvation,  that  we 
may  obtain  those  blessings  which  as  His  friends 
we  may  obtain.  For  Christ  says,  "  I  will  that 
where  I  am,  there  My  disciples  may  be  also,  that 
they  may  behold  My  glory"  (John  xvii.  24), 
which  may  we  all  attain,  through  the  grace  and 
love  of  Jesus  Christ. 


HOMILY    IV. 

1  Timothy  i.  15,  16. 


"  This  is  a  faithful  saying,  and  worthy  of  all  acceptation, 
that  Christ  Jesus  came  into  the  world  to  save  sinners; 
of  whom  I  am  chief.  Howbeit  for  this  cause  I 
obtained  mercy,  that  in  me  first  Jesus  Christ  might 
show  forth  all  longsuffering,  for  a  pattern  to  them 
which  should  hereafter  believe  on  Him  to  life  ever- 
lasting." 

The  favors  of  God  so  far  exceed  human  hope 
and  expectation,  that  often  they  are  not  believed. 
For  God  has  bestowed  upon  us  such  things  as 
the  mind  of  man  never  looked  for,  never  thought  I 
cf.     It  is  for  this  reason  that  the  Apostles  spend  , 
much  discourse  in  securing  a  belief  of  the  gifts  j 
that  are  granted  us  of  God.     For  as  men,  upon 
receiving  some  great  good,  ask  themselves  if  it 
is  not  a  dream,  as  not  believing  it ;  so  it  is  with 
respect  to  the  gifts  of  God.     What  then  was  it 


that  was  thought  incredible?  That  those  who 
were  enemies,  and  sinners,  neither  justified  by 
the  law,  nor  by  works,  should  immediately 
through  faith  alone  be  advanced  to  the  highest 
favor.  Upon  this  head  accordingly  Paul  has 
discoursed  at  length  in  his  Epistle  to  the  Romans, 
and  here  again  at  length.  "This  is  a  faithful 
saying,"  he  says,  "  and  worthy  of  all  acceptation, 
that  Christ  Jesus  came  into  the  world  to  save 
sinners." 

As  the  Jews  were  chiefly  attracted  by  this,  he 
persuades  them  not 2  to  give  heed  to  the  law, 
since  they  could  not  attain  salvation  by  it  with- 
out faith.  Against  this  he  contends ;  for  it 
seemed  to  them  incredible,  that  a  man  who  had 
mis-spent  all  his  former  life  in  vain  and  wicked 
actions,  should  afterwards  be  saved  by  his  faith 


1  This  idea  is  beautifully  illustrated  by   the   Christ uskopf  of         *  Sav.  omits"  not";  so  the  sense  will  be,  that  a  due  consideration 
Overbeck.  I  of  the  Law  would  prove  that  men  could  not  be  saved  by  it. 


420 


WORKS   OF   ST.    CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  IV. 


alone.  On  this  account  he  says,  "  It  is  a  saying 
to  be  believed."  But  some  not  only  disbelieved, 
but  even  objected,  as  the  Greeks  do  now.  "  Let 
us  then  do  evil,  that  good  may  come."  This  was 
the  consequence  they  drew  in  derision  of  our 
faith,  from  his  words,  "Where  sin  abounded, 
grace  did  much  more  abound."  (Rom.  iii.  8,  and 
v.  20.)  So  when  we  discourse  to  them  of  Hell, 
they  say,  How  can  this  be  worthy  of  God? 
When  man  has  found  his  servant  offending,  he 
forgives  it,  and  thinks  him  worthy  of  pardon  ; 
and  does  God  punish  eternally  ?  And  when  we 
speak  of  the  Laver,  and  of  the  remission  of  sins 
through  it,  this  too  they  say  is  unworthy  of  God, 
that  he  who  has  committed  offenses  without 
number  should  have  his  sins  remitted.  What 
perverseness  of  mind  is  this,  what  a  spirit  of 
contention  does  it  manifest !  Surely  if  forgive- 
ness is  an  evil,  punishment  is  a  good ;  but  if 
punishment  is  an  evil,  remission  of  it  is  a  good. 
I  speak  according  to  their  notions,  for  according 
to  ours,  both  are  good.  This  I  shall  show  at 
another  time,  for  the  present  would  not  suffice 
for  a  matter  so  deep,  and  which  requires  to  be 
elaborately  argued.  I  must  lay  it  before  your 
Charity  at  a  fitting  season.  At  present  let  us 
proceed  with  our  proposed  subject.  "This  is  a 
faithful  saying,"  he  says.  But  why  is  it  to  be 
believed  ? 

This  appears  both  from  what  precedes  and 
from  what  follows.  Observe  how  he  prepares 
us1  for  this  assertion,  and  how  he  then  dwells 
upon  it.  For  he  hath  previously  declared  that 
He  showed  mercy  to  me  "  a  blasphemer  and  a 
persecutor  "  ;  this  was  in  the  way  of  preparation. 
And  not  only  did  He  show  mercy,  but  "  He 
accounted  me  faithful."  So  far  should  we  be, 
he  means,  from  disbelieving  that  He  showed 
mercy.  For  no  one,  who  should  see  a  prisoner 
admitted  into  a  palace,  could  doubt  whether  he 
obtained  mercy.  And  this  was  visibly  the  situa- 
tion of  Paul,  for  he  makes  himself  the  example. 
Nor  is  he  ashamed  to  call  himself  a  sinner,  but 
rather  delights  in  it,  as  he  thus  can  best  demon- 
strate the  miracle  of  God's  regard  for  him,  and 
that  He  had  thought  him  worthy  of  such  extraor- 
dinary kindness. 

But  how  is  it,  that  he  here  calls  himself  a 
sinner,  nay,  the  chief  of  sinners,  whereas  he 
elsewhere  asserts  that  he  was  "  touching  the 
righteousness  which  is  in  the  law  blameless "  ? 
(Phil.  iii.  6.)  Because  with  respect  to  the 
righteousness  which  God  has  wrought,  the  jus- 
tification which  is  really  sought,  even  those 
who  are  righteous2  in  the  law  are  sinners,  "  for 
all  have  sinned,  and  come  short  of  the  glory 
of  God."     (Rom.  iii.  23.)     Therefore  he  does 


1  Or,  "  gives  proof  beforehand." 

1  The  word  "  righteous"  seems  to  be  understood  in  "  righteous- 
ness," just  before. 


not  say  righteousness  simply,  but  "the  right- 
eousness which  is  in  the  law."  As  a  man  that 
has  acquired  wealth,  with  respect  to  himself 
appears  rich,  but  upon  a  comparison  with  the 
treasures  of  kings  is  very  poor  and  the  chief 
of  the  poor ;  so  it  is  in  this  case.  Compared 
with  Angels,  even  righteous  men  are  sinners ; 
and  if  Paul,  who  wrought  the  righteousness 
that  is  in  the  law,  was  the  chief  of  sinners, 
what  other  man  can  be  called  righteous  ?  For 
he  says  not  this  to  condemn  his  own  life  as 
impure,  let  not  this  be  imagined ;  but  com- 
paring his  own  legal  righteousness  with  the 
righteousness  of  God,  he  shows  it  to  be  noth- 
ing worth,  and  not  only  so,  but  he  proves 
those  who  possess  it  to  be  sinners. 

Ver.  16.  "  Howbeit  for  this  cause  I  obtained 
mercy,  that  in  me  first  Jesus  Christ  might  show 
forth  all  longsuffering,  for  a  pattern  to  them 
which  should  hereafter  believe  on  Him  to  life 
everlasting." 

See  how  he  further  humbles  and  depreciates 
himself,  by  naming  a  fresh  and  less  creditable 
reason.    For  that  he  obtained  mercy  on  account 
of  his  ignorance,  does  not  so  much  imply  that 
he  who  obtained  mercy  was  a  sinner,  or  under 
deep  condemnation  ;  but  to  say  that  he  obtained 
mercy  in  order  that  no  sinner  hereafter  might 
despair  of  finding  mercy,  but  that  each  might 
feel  sure  of  obtaining  the  like  favor,  this  is  an 
excess  of  humiliation,  such  that  even  in  calling 
himself  the  chief  of  sinners,  "  a  blasphemer  and 
a  persecutor,  and  one  not  meet  to  be  called  an 
Apostle,"  he  had  said  nothing  like  it.     This  will 
appear  by  an  example.    Suppose  a  populous  city, 
all  whose  inhabitants  were  wicked,  some  more  so, 
and  some  less,  but  all  deserving  of  condemna- 
tion ;  and  let  one  among  that  multitude  be  more 
deserving  of  punishment  than  all  the  rest,  and 
guilty  of  every  kind  of  wickedness.     If  it  were 
declared  that  the  king  was  willing  to  pardon  all, 
it  would  not  be  so  readily  believed,  as  if  they 
were  to  see  this  most  wicked  wretch  actually 
pardoned.     There  could  then  be  no  longer  any 
doubt.    This  is  what  Paul  says,  that  God,  willing 
to  give  men  full  assurance  that  He  pardons  aD 
their  transgressions,  chose,  as  the  object  of  His 
mercy,  him  who  was  more  a  sinner  than  any; 
for  when  I  obtained  mercy,  he  argues,  there 
could   be   no   doubt   of  others :    as   familiarly 
speaking  we  might  say,  "  If  God  pardons  such 
an  one,  he  will  never  punish  anybody " ;  and 
thus  he  shows  that  he  himself,  though  unworthy 
of  pardon,  for  the  sake  of  others'  salvation,  first 
obtained  that  pardon.    Therefore,  he  says,  since 
I  am  saved,  let  no  one  doubt  of  salvation.    And 
observe  the  humility  of  this  blessed  man;  he 
says  not,  "  that  in  me  he  might  show  forth  "  His 
"  longsuffering,"  but  "  all  longsuffering  "  ;  as  if 
he  had  said,  greater  longsuffering  He  could  not 


Homily  IV.] 


HOMILIES   ON   TIMOTHY. 


421 


show  in  any  case  than  in  mine,  nor  find  a  sinner 
that  so  required  all  His  pardon,  all  His  long- 
suffering  ;  not  a  part  only,  like  those  who  are  only 
partially  sinners,  but  "  all  "  His  longsuffering. 

•'  For  a  pattern  to  those  who  should  hereafter 
believe. "  This  is  said  for  comfort,  for  encour- 
agement.1 But  because  he  had  spoken  highly 
of  the  Son,  and  of  the  great  love  which  He  hath 
manifested,  lest  he  should  be  thought  to  exclude 
the  Father  from  this,  he  ascribes  the  glory  to 
Him  also. 

Ver.  17.  "  Now  unto  the  King  eternal,  immor- 
tal, invisible,  the  only  wise  God,  be  honor  and 
glory  for  ever  and  ever.     Amen." 

For  these  things,  then,  we  glorify  not  the  Son 
only,  but  the  Father.  Here  let  us  argue  with 
the  heretics.  Speaking  of  the  Father,  he  says, 
" To  the  only  God."  Is  the  Son  then  not  God? 
"The  only  immortal."2  Is  the  Son  then  not 
immortal  ?  Or  does  He  not  possess  that  Him- 
self, which  hereafter  He  will  give  to  us?  Yes, 
they  say,  He  is  God  and  immortal,  but  not  such 
as  the  Father.  What  then?  is  He  of  inferior 
essence,  and  therefore  of  inferior  immortality? 
What  then  is  a  greater  and  a  less  immortality? 
For  immortality  is  nothing  else  than  the  not 
being  subject  to  destruction.  For  there  is  a 
greater  and  a  less  glory ;  but  immortality  does 
not  admit  of  being  greater  or  less :  as  neither 
is  there  a  greater  and  a  less  health.  For  a 
thing  must  either  be  destructible,  or  altogether 
indestructible.  Are  we  men  then  immortal  even 
as  He  ?  God  forbid  !  Surely  not !  Why  ?  be- 
cause He  has  it  by  nature,  but  we  adventitiously. 
Why  then  do  you  make  the  difference  ?  Because 
the  Father,  he  says,  is  made  such  as  He  is  by 
no  other :  but  the  Son  is  what  He  is,  from  the 
Father.  This  we  also  confess,  not  denying  that 
the  Son  is  generated  from  the  Father  incorrupti- 
bly.3  And  we  glorify  the  Father,  he  means,  for 
having  generated  the  Son,  such  as  He  is.  Thus 
you  see  the  Father  is  most  glorified,  when  the 
Son  hath  done  great  things.  For  the  glory  of 
the  Son  is  referred  again  to  Him.  And  since 
He  generated  Him  omnipotent  and  such  as  He 
is  in  Himself,  it  is  not 4  more  the  glory  of  the 
Son  than  of  the  Father,  that  He  is  self-sufficient, 
and  self- maintained,  and  free  from  infirmity.  It 
has  been  said  of  the  Son,  "  By  whom  He  made 
the  worlds."  (Heb.  i.  2.)  Now  there  is  a  dis- 
tinction observed  among  us  between  creation 
and  workmanship.5  For  one  works  and  toils 
and  executes,  another  rules  ;  and  why  ?  because 
he  that  executes  is  the  inferior.     But  it  is  not  so 


1  wporpoir»jv,  al.  iwiarpo^ijv,  "bringing  about  conversion." 

•  Lit.  "  incorruptible. 

•  al.  "  out  of  time." 

•  It  is  necessary  here  to  insert  a  negative,  or  to  read  ovkovv  for 

QVKOVV. 

•  jrrt<rif.  Hales  conjectures  (cr^o-ic,  possession.  But  this  may 
be  doubted,  as  Kri^tiv  means  "  to  found,  as  a  king  founds  a  city. 
The  workmen  build,  but  do  not  found. 


there  ;  nor  is  the  sovereignty  with  One,  the  work- 
manship with  the  Other.  For  when  we  hear, 
"  By  whom  He  made  the  worlds,"  *  we  do  not 
exclude  the  Father  from  creation.  Nor  when 
we  say,  "  To  the  King  immortal," '  do  we  deny 
dominion  to  the  Son.  For  these  are  common 
to  the  One  and  the  Other,  and  each  belongs  to 
Both.  The  Father  created,  in  that  He  begat 
the  creating  Son ;  the  Son  rules,  as  being  Lord 
of  all  things  created.  For  He  does  not  work 
for  hire,  nor  in  obedience  to  others,  as  workmen 
do  among  us,  but  from  His  own  goodness  and 
love  for  mankind.  But  has  the  Son8  ever  been 
seen?  No  one  can  affirm  this.  What  means 
then,  "  To  the  King  immortal,  invisible,  the  only 
wise  •  God  "  ?  Or  when  it  is  said,  "  There  is  no 
other  name  whereby  we  must  be  saved  " :  and 
again,  "  There  is  salvation  in  no  other  "  ?  (Acts 
iv.  12.) 

"  To  Him  be  honor  and  glory  forever.  Amen." 

Now  honor  and  glory  are  not  mere  words ; 
and  since  He  has  honored  us  not  by  words  only, 
but  by  what  He  has  done  for  us,  so  let  us  honor 
Him  by  works  and  deeds.  Yet  this  honor 
touches  us,  while  that  reaches  not  Him,  for  He 
needs  not  the  honor  that  comes  from  us,  we  do 
need  that  which  is  from  Him. 

In  honoring  Him,  therefore,  we  do  honor  to 
ourselves.  He  who  opens  his  eyes  to  gaze  on 
the  light  of  the  sun,  receives  delight  himself,  as 
he  admires  the  beauty  of  the  star,  but  does  no 
favor  to  that  luminary,  nor  increases  its  splendor, 
for  it  continues  what  it  was  ;  much  more  is  this 
true  with  respect  to  God.  He  who  admires  and 
honors  God  does  so  to  his  own  salvation,  and 
highest  benefit ;  and  how  ?  Because  he  follows 
after  virtue,  and  is  honored  by  Him.  For  "  them 
that  honor  Me,"  He  says,  "  I  will  honor."  (1  Sam. 
iv.  30.)  How  then  is  He  honored,  if  He  en- 
joys no  advantage  from  our  honor?  Just  as  He 
is  said  to  hunger  and  thirst.  For  He  assumes 
everything  that  is  ours,  that  He  may  in  anywise 
attract  us  to  Him.  He  is  said  to  receive  honors, 
and  even  insults,  that  we  may  be  afraid.  But 
with  all  this  we  are  not  attracted  towards  Him  ! 

Moral.  Let  us  then  "  glorify  God,"  and  bear 
God  10  both  "  in  our  body  and  in  our  spirit." 
(1  Cor.  vi.  20.)  And  how  is  one  to  glorify  Him 
in  the  body  ?  saith  one,  and  how  in  the  spirit  ? 
The  soul  is  here  called  the  spirit  to  distinguish 
it  from  the  body.     But  how  may  we  glorify  Him 

•  Or  "  the  ages."    Heb.  i.  a. 

7  Or  "  King  of  Ages  "  (a'tutvuv,  for  which  we  have  no  word  but 
"  worlds,"  taken  in  an  extended  sense) . 

*  i.e.  in  His  Divine  Nature. 

9  B.  omits  "wise"  throughout,  and  then  "only"  applies  to  the 
words  before,  and  the  argument  here  is  complete;  viz.,  that  there  is 
One  God,  of  whom  all  this  is  said,  that  is,  the  Ever  Blessed  Trinity. 
Some  good  MSS.  favor  this  reading  in  the  text. 

10  apwpep .  St.  Chrys.  is  almost  the  only  Greek  authority  for  the 
reading  of  the  Vulgate,  well  known  as  trie  Capitulum  of  the  9th 
hour,  _  glorificate  et  fiortate  Deum  in  corpore  vestro."  On  the  pas- 
sage his  reading  so  seems  not  quite  decided.  See  Scholz,  and  Horn, 
xviii.  on  1  Cor.  vi.  20. 


422 


WORKS   OF   ST.    CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  IV. 


in  the  body  and  in  the  spirit?  He  glorifies  Him 
in  the  body,  who  does  not  commit  adultery  or 
fornication,  who  avoids  gluttony  and  drunkenness, 
who  does  not  affect  a  showy  exterior,  who  makes 
such  provision  for  himself  as  is  sufficient  for 
health  only :  and  so  the  woman,  who  does  not 
perfume  nor  paint  her  person,  but  is  satisfied  to 
be  such  as  God  made  her,  and  adds  no  device 
of  her  own.  For  why  dost  thou  add  thy  own 
embellishments  to  the  work  which  God  made  ? 
Is  not  His  workmanship  sufficient  for  thee  ?  or 
dost  thou  endeavor  to  add  grace  to  it,  as  if  for- 
sooth thou  wert  the  better  artist  ?  *  It  is  not  for 
thyself,  but  to  attract  crowds  of  lovers,  that  thou 
thus  adornest  thy  person,  and  insultest  thy  Crea- 
tor. And  do  not  say,  "  What  can  I  do  ?  It  is  no 
wish  of  my  own,  but  I  must  do  it  for  my  husband. 
I  cannot  win  his  love  except  I  consent  to  this." 
God  made  thee  beautiful,  that  He  might  be 
admired  even  in  thy  beauty,  and  not  that  He 
might  be  insulted.  Do  not  therefore  make  Him 
so  ill  a  return,  but  requite  Him  with  modesty 
and  chastity.  God  made  thee  beautiful,  that 
He  might  increase  the  trials  of  thy  modesty. 
For  it  is  much  harder  for  one  that  is  lovely  to  be 
modest,  than  for  one  who  has  no  such  attractions, 
for  which  to  be  courted.  Why  does  the  Scripture 
tell  us,  that  "  Joseph  was  a  goodly  person,  and 
well  favored"  (Gen.  xxxix.  6),  but  that  we  might 
the  more  admire  his  modesty  coupled  with 
beauty  ?  Has  God  made  thee  beautiful  ?  Why 
dost  thou  make  thyself  otherwise  ?  For  as  though 
one  should  overlay  a  golden  statue  with  a  daub- 
ing of  mire,  so  it  is  with  those  women  that  use 
paints.  Thou  besmearest  thyself  with  red  and 
white  earth  !  But  the  homely,  you  say,  may 
fairly  have  recourse  to  this.  And  why?  To 
hide  their  ugliness  ?  It  is  a  vain  attempt.  For 
when  was  the  natural  appearance  improved  upon 
by  that  which  is  studied  and  artificial?  And 
why  shouldest  thou  be  troubled  at  thy  want  of 
beauty,  since  it  is  no  reproach  ?  For  hear  the 
saying  of  the  Wise  Man,  "  Commend  not  a  man 
for  his  beauty,  neither  abhor  a  man  for  his  out- 
ward appearance."  (Ecclus.  xi.  2.)  Let  God  be 
rather  admired,  the  best  Artificer,  and  not  man, 
who  has  no  merit  in  being  made  such  as  he  is. 
What  are  the  advantages,  tell  me,  of  beauty? 
None.  It  exposes  its  possessor  to  greater  trials, 
mishaps,  perils,  and  suspicions.  She  that  wants  it 
escapes  suspicion ;  she  that  possesses  it,  except 
she  practice  a  great  and  extraordinary  reserve, 
incurs  an  evil  report,  and  what  is  worse  than  all, 
the  suspicion  of  her  husband,  who  takes  less 
pleasure  in  beholding  her  beauty,  than  he  suffers 
pain  from  jealousy.  And  her  beauty  fades  in  his 
sight  from  familiarity,  whilst  she  suffers  in  her 
character  from  the  imputation  of  weakness,  dis- 


1  '*  God  never  made  his  work  for  man  to  mend."  —  Dryden. 


sipation,  and  wantonness,  and  her  very  soul2 
becomes  degraded  and  full  of  haughtiness.  To 
these  evils  personal  beauty  is  exposed.  But  she 
who  has  not  this  attraction,  escapes  unmolested. 
The  dogs  do  not  assail  her ;  she  is  like  a  lamb, 
reposing  in  a  secure  pasture,  where  no  wolf 
intrudes  to  harass  her,  because  the  shepherd  is 
at  hand  to  protect  her. 

The  real  superiority8  is,  not  that  one  is  fair, 
and  the  other  homely,  but  it  is  a  superiority 
that  one,  even  if  she  is  not  fair,  is  unchaste,  and 
the  other  is  not  wicked.  Tell  me  wherein  is 
the  perfection  of  eyes  ?  Is  it  in  their  being  soft, 
and  rolling,  and  round,  and  dark,  or  in  their 
clearness  and  quicksightedness.  Is  it  the  per- 
fection of  a  lamp  to  be  elegantly  formed,  and 
finely  turned,  or  to  shine  brightly,  and  to  en- 
lighten the  whole  house  ?  We  cannot  say  it  is 
not  this,  for  the  other  is  indifferent,  and  this  the 
real  object.  Accordingly  we  often  say  to  the 
maid  whose  charge  it  is,  "  You  have  made  a  bad 
lamp  of  it."  So  entirely  is  it  the  use  of  a  lamp 
to  give  light.  So  it  matters  not  what  is  the 
appearance  of  the  eye,  whilst  it  performs  its 
office  with  full  efficiency.  We  call  the  eye  bad, 
which  is  dim  or  disordered,  and  which,  when 
open,  does  not  see.  For  that  is  bad,  which 
does  not  perform  its  proper  office  —  and  this  is 
the  fault  of  eyes.  And  for  a  nose,  tell  me,  when 
is  it  a  good  one  ?  When  it  is  straight,  and  pol- 
ished on  either  side,  and  finely  proportioned? 
or  when  it  is  quick  to  receive  odors,  and  trans- 
mit them  to  the  brain?  Any  one  can  answer 
this. 

Come  now,  let  us  illustrate  this  by  an  example 
—  as   of  gripers,  I   mean   the   instruments  so 
called  ;  we  say  those  are  well-made,  which  are 
able  to  take  up  and  hold  things,  not  those  which 
are  only  handsomely  and  elegantly  shaped.    So  / 
those  are  good  teeth  which  are  fit  for  the  ser- 
vice of  dividing  and  chewing  our  food,  not  those 
which  are  beautifully  set.      And  applying  the 
same  reasoning  to  other  parts  of  the  body,  we 
shall  call  those  members  beautiful,  which  are 
sound,  and  perform  their  proper  functions  aright. 
So  we  think  any  instrument,  or  plant,  or  animal 
good,  not   because  of  its   form   or  color,  but 
because   it   answers   its   purpose.      And  he  is 
thought  a  good 4  servant,  who  is  useful  and  ready 
for  our  service,  not  one  who  is  comely  but  dis- 
solute.    I  trust  ye  now  understand  how  it  is  in 
your  power  to  be  beautiful. 

And  since  the  greatest  and  most  important 
benefits  are  equally  enjoyed  by  all,  we  are  under 
no  disadvantage.  Whether  we  are  beautiful  or 
not,  we  alike  behold  this  universe,  the  sun,  the 

*  Stopping  the  passage  thus,  the  present  reading  may  stand. 

3  irAeof«£ia  seems  here  to  be  used  for  "  superiority,  if  the  Hid- 
ing of  B.  (not  wicked)  is  correct;  and  this  makes  the  best  *£"*• 
Otherwise,  it  must  stand  for  "  excess." 

*    KOAOf. 


Homily  V.] 


HOMILIES   ON   TIMOTHY. 


423 


moon,  and  the  stars ;  we  breathe  the  same  air, 
we  partake  alike  of  water,  and  the  fruits  of  the 
earth.  And  if  we  may  say  what  will  sound 
strange,  the  homely  are  more  healthy  than  the 
beautiful.  For  these,  to  preserve  their  beauty, 
engage  in  no  labor,  but  give  themselves  up  to 
indolence  and  delicate  living,  by  which  their 
bodily  energies  are  impaired  ;  whilst  the  others, 
having  no  such  care,  spend  all  their  attention 
simply  and  entirely  on  active  pursuits. 

Let  us  then  "  glorify  God,  and  take  and  bear 
Him  in  our  body."  (1  Cor.  vi.  20.)  Let  us 
not  affect  a  beautiful  appearance ;  that  care  is 
vain  and  unprofitable.  Let  us  not  teach  our 
husbands  to  admire  the  mere  outward  form ;  for 
if  such  be  thy  adornment,  his  very  habit  of 
viewing  thy  face  will  make  him  easy  to  be  cap- 
tivated by  a  harlot.  But  if  thou  teachest  him  to 
love  good  manners,  and  modesty,  he  will  not  be 
ready  to  wander,  for  he  will  see  no  attractions 
in  a  harlot,  in  whom   those  qualities  are  not 


found,  but  the  reverse.  Neither  teach  him  to 
be  captivated  by  laughter,  nor  by  a  loose  dress, 
!  lest  thou  prepare  a  poison  against  thyself.  Ac- 
custom him  to  delight  in  modesty,  and  this  thou 
wilt  do,  if  thy  attire  be  modest.  But  if  thou 
hast  a  flaunting  air,  an  unsteady  manner,  how 
canst  thou  address1  him  in  a  serious  strain? 
and  who  will  not  hold  thee  in  contempt  and 
derision  ? 

But  how  is  it  possible  to  glorify  God  in  our 
spirit?2  By  practicing  virtue,  by  adorning  the 
soul.  For  such  embellishment  is  not  forbidden. 
Thus  we  glorify  God,  when  we  are  good  in  every 
respect,  and  we  shall  be  glorified  by  Him  in  a 
much  higher  degree  in  that  great  day.  For  "  I 
reckon  that  the  sufferings  of  this  present  time 
are  not  worthy  to  be  compared  with  the  glory 
that  shall  be  revealed  in  us."  (Rom.  viii.  18.) 
Of  which  that  we  may  all  be  partakers,  God 
grant,  by  the  grace  and  lovingkindness  of  our 
Lord  Jesus  Christ. 


HOMILY    V. 

1  Timothy  i.  18,  19. 


"This  charge  I  commit  unto  thee,  son  [my  child,  tckvov] 
Timothy,  according  to  the  prophecies  which  went 
before  on  thee,  that  thou  by  them  mightest  [mayest] 
war  a  good  warfare;  holding  faith,  and  a  good  con- 
science; which  some  having  put  away  have  made 
shipwreck  concerning  the  faith." 

The  office  of  a  Teacher  and  that  of  a  Priest 
is  of  great  dignity,  and  to  bring  forward  one 
that  is  worthy  requires  a  divine  election.  So  it 
was  of  old,  and  so  it  is  now,  when  we  make  a 
choice  without  human  passion,  not  looking  to 
any  temporal  consideration,  swayed  neither  by 
friendship,  nor  enmity.  For  though  we  be  not 
partakers  of  so  great  a  measure  of  the  Spirit  as 
they,  yet  a  good  purpose  is  sufficient  to  draw 
unto  us  the  election  of  God.  For  the  Apostles, 
when  they  elected  Matthias,  had  not  yet  received 
the  Holy  Spirit,  but  having  committed  the  mat- 
ter to  prayer,  they  chose  him  into  the  number 
of  the  Apostles.  For  they  looked  not  to  human 
friendships.  And  so  now  too  it  ought  to  be  with 
us.  But  we  have  advanced  to  the  extreme  of 
negligence ;  and  even  what  is  clearly  evident, 
we  let  pass.  Now  when  we  overlook  what  is 
manifest,  how  will  God  reveal  to  us  what  is  un- 
seen ?  as  it  is  said,  "  If  ye  have  not  been  faith- 
ful in  that  which  is  little,  who  will  commit  to  you 
that  which  is  great  and  true?"  (Luke  xvi.  1 1.) 
But  then,  when  nothing  human  was  done,  the 


appointment  of  Priests  too  was  by  prophecy. 
What  is  "  by  prophecy  "  ?  By  the  Holy  Spirit. 
For  prophecy  is  not  only  the  telling  of  things 
future,  but  also  of  the  present.  It  was  by 
prophecy  that  Saul  was  discovered  "  hidden 
among  the  stuff."  (1  Sam.  x.  22.)  For  God 
reveals  things  to  the  righteous.  So  it  was  said 
by  prophecy,  "  Separate  me  Barnabas  and  Saul." 
(Acts  xiii.  2.)  In  this  way  Timothy  also  was 
chosen,  concerning  whom  he  speaks  of  prophe- 
cies in  the  plural ;  that,  perhaps,  upon  which 3 
he  "  took  and  circumcised  him,"  and  when  he 
ordained  him,  as  he  himself  says  in  his  Epistle 
to  him,  "  Neglect  not  the  gift  that  is  in  thee." 
(1  Tim.  iv.  14.)  Therefore  to  elevate  him,  and 
prepare  him  to  be  sober  and  watchful,  he  re- 
minds him  by  whom  he  was  chosen  and  ordained, 
as  if  he  had  said,  "  God  hath  chosen  thee.  He 
gave  thee  thy  commission,  thou  wast  not  made 
by  human  vote.  Do  not  therefore  abuse  or  bring 
into  disgrace  the  appointment  of  God."  When 
again  he  speaks  of  a  charge,  which  implies  some- 
thing burdensome,4  he  adds,  "This  charge  I  com- 
mit to  thee,  son  Timothy."     He  charges  him  as 

1   Ben.  irpo&€V€yKtlv,  Sav.  irpotv. 

1  Ben.  "  to  bear  God  in  our  body."  But  this  seems  rather  the 
subject  that  has  been  already  discussed.  See  the  beginning  of  the 
Moral. 

4  Or  "  galling  ";  the  word  "  charge  "  is  in  the  sense  of  "  injunc- 
tion." 


424 


WORKS   OF   ST.    CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  V. 


his  son,  his  own  son,  not  so  much  with  arbitrary  or 
despotic  authority  as  like  a  father,  he  says,  "  my 
son  Timothy."  The  "committing,"  however, 
implies  that  it  is  to  be  diligently  kept,  and  that 
it  is  not  our  own.  For  we  did  not  obtain  it  for 
ourselves,  but  God  conferred  it  upon  us ;  and 
not  it  only,  but  also  "faith  and  a  good  con- 
science." What  He  hath  given  us  then,  let  us 
keep.  For  if  He  had  not  come,  the  faith  had 
not  been  to  be  found,  nor  that  pure  life  which 
we  learn  by  education.  As  if  he  had  said,  "  It 
is  not  I  that  charge  thee,  but  He  who  chose 
thee,"  and  this  is  meant  by  "  the  prophecies 
that  went  before  on  thee."  Listen  to  them, 
obey  them. 

And  say,  what  chargest  thou?  "That  by 
them  thou  shouldest  war  a  good  warfare."  They 
chose  thee,  that  then  for  which  they  chose  thee 
do  thou,  "  war  a  good  warfare."  He  named  "  a 
good  warfare,"  since  there  is  a  bad  warfare,  of 
which  he  says,  "  As  ye  have  yielded  your  mem- 
bers instruments1  to  uncleanness  and  to  in- 
iquity." (Rom.  vi.  19.)  Those  men  serve  under 
a  tyrant,  but  thou  servest  under  a  King.  And 
why  calls  he  it  a  warfare  ?  To  show  how  mighty 
a  contest  is  to  be  maintained  by  all,  but  es- 
pecially by  a  Teacher ;  that  we  require  strong 
arms,  and  sobriety,  and  awakenedness,  and  con- 
tinual vigilance  :  that  we  must  prepare  ourselves 
for  blood  and  conflicts,  must  be  in  battle  array, 
and  have  nothing  relaxed.  "  That  thou  shouldest 
war  in  them,"  he  says.  For  as  in  an  army  all 
do  not  serve  in  the  same  capacity,  but  in  their 
different  stations ;  so  also  in  the  Church  one  has 
the  office  of  a  Teacher,  another  that  of  a  dis- 
ciple, another  that  of  a  private  man.  But  thou 
art  in  this.  And,  because  this  is  not  sufficient, 
he  adds, 

Ver.  19.  "  Holding  faith,  and  a  good  con- 
science." 

For  he  that  would  be  a  Teacher  must  first 
teach  himself.  For  as  he  who  has  not  first  been 
a  good  soldier,  will  never  be  a  general,  so  it  is 
with  the  Teacher ;  wherefore  he  says  elsewhere, 
"  Lest  when  I  have  preached  to  others,  I  my- 
self should  be  a  cast-away."  (1  Cor.  ix.  27.) 
"  Holding  faith,"  he  says,  "  and  a  good  con- 
science," that  so  thou  mayest  preside  over  others. 
When  we  hear  this,  let  us  not  disdain  the  exhor- 
tations of  our  superiors,  though  we  be  Teachers. 
For  if  Timothy,  to  whom  all  of  us  together 
are  not  worthy  to  be  compared,  receives  com- 
mands and  is  instructed,  and  that  being  himself 
in  the  Teacher's  office,  much  more  should  we. 
"  Which  some  having  put  away,  have  made  ship- 
wreck concerning  the  faith." 2  And  this  follows 
naturally.     For  when  the  life  is  corrupt,  it  engen- 


1  The  word  used,  Rom.  vi.  13,  which  may  mean  "  arms  "  (orrAa). 
*  [This  is  the  order  of  the  R.  V.] 


ders  a  doctrine  congenial  to  it,  and  from  this 
circumstance  many  are  seen  to  fall  into  a  gulf 
of  evil,  and  to  turn  aside  into  Heathenism.  For 
that  they  may  not  be  tormented  with  the  fear 
of  futurity,  they  endeavor  to  persuade  their 
souls,  that  what  we  preach  is  false.  And  some 
turn  aside  from  the  faith,  who  seek  out  every- 
thing by  reasoning ;  for  reasoning  produces  ship- 
wreck, while  faith  is  as  a  safe  ship. 

They  then  who  turn  aside  from  the  faith  must 
suffer  shipwreck ;  and  this  he  shows  by  an  ex- 
ample. 

Ver.  20.  "  Of  whom  are  Hymenaeus  and  Alex- 
ander." 

And  from  them  he  would  instruct  us.  You 
see  how  even  from  those  times  there  have  been 
seducing  Teachers,  curious  enquirers,  and  men 
holding  off  from  the  faith,  and  searching  out* 
by  their  own  reasonings.  As  the  shipwrecked 
man  is  naked  and  destitute  of  all  things,  so  is  he 
that  falls  away  from  the  faith  without  resource, 
he  knows  not  where  to  stand  or  where  to  stay 
himself,  nor  has  he  the  advantage  of  a  good  life 
so  as  to  gain  anything  from  that  quarter.  For 
when  the  head  is  disordered,  what  avails  the 
rest  of  the  body?  and  if  faith  without  a  good 
life  is  unavailing,  much  more  is  the  converse 
true.  If  God  despises  His  own  for  our  sakes, 
much  more  ought  we  to  despise  our  own  for  His 
sake.4  For  so  it  is,  where  any  one  falls  away 
from  the  faith,  he  has  no  steadiness,  he  swims 
this  way  and  that,  till  at  last  he  is  lost  in  the 
deep. 

"  Whom  I  delivered  to  Satan,  that  they  might 
be  taught  not  to  blaspheme  ! "  Thus  it  is  blas- 
phemy to  search  into  divine  things  by  our  own 
reasonings.  For  what  have  human  reasonings 
in  common  with  them?  But  how  does  Satan 
instruct  them  not  to  blaspheme  ?  can  he  instruct 
others,  who  has  not  yet  taught  himself,  but  is  a 
blasphemer  still?  It  is  not  that  "he  should 
instruct,"  but  that  they  should  be  instructed. 
It  is  not  he  that  does  it,  though  such  is  the 
result.  As  elsewhere  he  says  in  the  case  of  the 
fornicator :  "  To  deliver  such  an  one  to  Satan 
for  the  destruction  of  the  flesh."  Not  that  he 
may  save  the  body,  but  "  that  the  spirit  may  be 
saved."  (i  Cor.  v.  5.)  Therefore  it  is  spoken 
impersonally.  How  then  is  this  effected?  As 
executioners,  though  themselves  laden  with 
numberless  crimes,  are  made  the  correctors  of 
others  ;  so  it  is  here  with  the  evil  spirit.  But 
why  didst  thou  not  punish  them  thyself,  as  thou 
didst  that  Bar- Jesus,  and  as  Peter  did  Ananias, 
instead  of  delivering  them  to  Satan  ?  It  was  not 
that  they  might  be  punished,  but  that  they  might 

3  al.  "  searching  into  divine  Mysteries  by." 

4  i.e.  if  God  regards  not  our  Jat't A,  which  is  most  towards  Him 
of  all  we  do,  unless  we  perform  the  duties  of  life,  much  more  ought 
we  not  to  pride  ourselves  on  any  such  duties,  while  we  negject  that 
duty  to  Him.     See  St.  Chrys.  on  Rom.  iv.  x,  a,  Horn.  viii. 


Homily  V.] 


HOMILIES  ON  TIMOTHY. 


425 


be  instructed.  For  that  he  had  the  power 
appears  from  other  passages,  "What  will  ye? 
Shall  I  come  unto  you  with  a  rod  ?  "  ( 1  Cor. 
iv.  21.)  And  again,  "  Lest  I  should  use  sharp- 
ness, according  to  the  power  which  the  Lord 
hath  given  me  to  edification,  and  not  to  destruc- 
tion." (2  Cor.  xiii.  10.)  Why  did  he  then  call 
upon  Satan  to  punish  them?  That  the  disgrace 
might  be  greater,  as  the  severity  and  the  pun- 
ishment was  more  striking.  Or  rather,  they 
themselves  chastised  those  who  did  not  yet  be- 
lieve, but  those  who  turned  aside,  they  delivered 
to  Satan.  Why  then  did  Peter  punish  Ananias? 
Because  whilst  he  was  tempting  the  Holy  Ghost, 
he  was  still  an  unbeliever.  That  the  unbelieving 
therefore  might  learn  that  they  could  not  escape, 
they  themselves  inflicted  punishment  upon  them  ; 
but  those  who  had  learnt  this,  yet  afterwards 
turned  aside,  they  delivered  to  Satan ;  showing 
that  they  were  sustained  not  by  their  own  power, 
but  by  their  care  for  them ;  and  as  many  as 
were  lifted  up  into  arrogance  were  delivered  to 
him.  For  as  kings  with  their  own  hands  slay 
their  enemies,  but  deliver  their  subjects  to  exe- 
cutioners for  punishment,  so  it  is  in  this  case. 
And  these  acts  were  done  to  show  the  authority 
committed  to  the  Apostles.  Nor  was  it  a  slight 
power,  to  be  able  thus  to  subject  the  devil  to 
their  commands.  For  this  shows  that  he  served 
and  obeyed  them  even  against  his  will,  and  this 
was  no  little  proof  of  the  power  of  grace.  And 
listen  how  he  delivered  them :  "  When  ye  are 
gathered  together,  and  my  spirit,  with  the  power 
of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  to  deliver  such  an  one 
unto  Satan."  (1  Cor.  v.  4.)  He  was  then 
immediately  expelled  from  the  common  assem- 
bly, he  was  separated  from  the  fold,  he  became 
deserted  and  destitute  ;  he  was  delivered  to  the 
wolf.  For  as  the  cloud  designated  the  camp 
of  the  Hebrews,  so  the  Spirit  distinguished  the 
Church.  If  any  one  therefore  was  without,  he 
was  consumed,1  and  it  was  by  the  judgment  of 
the  Apostles  that  he  was  cast  out  of  the  pale. 
So  also  the  Lord  delivered  Judas  to  Satan.  For 
immediately  "  after  the  sop  Satan  entered  into 
him."  (John  xiii.  27.)  Or  this  may  be  said; 
that  those  whom  they  wished  to  amend,  they 
did  not  themselves  punish,  but  reserved  their 
punishments  for  those  who  were  incorrigible. 
Or  otherwise,  that  they  were  the  more  dreaded 
for  delivering  them  up  to  others.  Job  also  was 
delivered  to  Satan,  but  not  for  his  sins,  but  for 
fuller  proof  of  his  worth. 

Many  such  instances  still  occur.  For  since 
the  Priests  cannot  know  who  are  sinners,  and 
unworthy  partakers  of  the  holy  Mysteries,  God 
often  in  this  way  delivers  them  to  Satan.     For 


1  See  Ex.  xiv.  30.    The  converse  is  not  stated  here,  but  is  im- 
plied of  the  Christian  Church  in  Zcch.  ii.  5. 


when  diseases,  and  attacks,3  and  sorrows,  and 
calamities,  and  the  like  occur,  it  is  on  this 
account  that  they  are  inflicted.  This  is  shown 
by  Paul.  "  For  this  cause  many  are  weak  and 
sickly  among  you,  and  many  sleep."  (i  Cor. 
xi.  30.)  But  how?  saith  one,  when  we  approach 
but  once  a  year !  But  this  is  indeed  the  evil, 
that  you  determine  the  worthiness  of  your  ap- 
proach, not  by  the  purity  of  your  minds,  but  by 
the  interval  of  time.  You  think  it  a  proper  cau- 
tion not  to  communicate  often  ;  not  considering 
that  you  are  seared  by  partaking  unworthily, 
though  only  once,  but  to  receive  worthily,  though 
often,  is  salutary.  It  is  not  presumptuous  to 
receive  often,  but  to  receive  unworthily,  though 
but  once  in  a  whole  life.  But  we  are  so  misera- 
bly foolish,  that,  though  we  commit  numberless 
offenses  in  the  course  of  a  year,  we  are  not 
anxious  to  be  absolved  from  them,  but  are  satis- 
fied, that  we  do  not  often  make  bold  impudently 
to  insult  the  Body  of  Christ,  not  remembering 
that  those  who  crucified  Christ,  crucified  Him 
but  once.  Is  the  offense  then  the  less,  because 
committed  but  once  ?  Judas  betrayed  his  Mas- 
ter but  once.  What  then,  did  that  exempt  him 
from  punishment?  Why  indeed  is  time  to  be 
considered  in  this  matter?  let  our  time  of  com- 
ing be  when  our  conscience  is  pure.  The 
Mystery  at  Easter  is  not  of  more  efficacy  than 
that  which  is  now  celebrated.  It  is  one  and  the 
same.  There  is  the  same  grace  of  the  Spirit, 
it  is  always  a  Passover.8  You  who  are  initiated 
know  this.  On  the  Preparation,4  on  the  Sab- 
bath, on  the  Lord's  day,  and  on  the  day  of 
Martyrs,  it  is  the  same  Sacrifice  that  is  per- 
formed. "  For  as  often,"  he  saith,  "  as  ye  eat 
this  bread  and  drink  this  cup,  ye  do  show  the 
Lord's  death."  (i  Cor.  xi.  26.)  No  time  is 
limited  for  the  performance  of  this  Sacrifice,  why 
then  is  it  then  called  the  Paschal  feast?5  Be- 
cause Christ  suffered  for  us  then.  Let  not  the 
time,  therefore,  make  any  difference  in  your 
approach.  There  is  at  all  times  the  same  power, 
the  same  dignity,  the  same  grace,  one  and  the 
same  body ;  nor  is  one  celebration  of  it  more 
or  less  holy  than  another.  And  this  you  know, 
who  see  upon  these  occasions  nothing  new,  save 
these  worldly  veils,  and  a  more  splendid  attend- 
ance. The  only  thing  that  these  days  have  more 
is  that  from  them  commenced  the  day  of  our 
salvation  when  Christ  was  sacrificed.  But  with 
respect  to  these  mysteries,  those  days  have  no 
further  preeminence. 


*  «irt3ovAaI.  He  seems  to  mean  those  of  Satan.  Of  affliction  as 
a  warning  against  sin,  see  on  Stat.  Horn.  iii.  and  Horn.  iv. 

1  See  Rom.  iii.  of  St.  Chrys.  against  the  Jews,  §  4.  Ben.  t.  i.  p. 
611. 

4  wafxuTKcvj),  Friday  [preparation  day  for  the  Jewish  Sabbath, 
Sabbath-eve]. 

4  wdtrx*.  He  seems  to  allude  to  the  Greek  word  for"  suffering," 
though  the  reason  will  hold  otherwise,  [iraUrx*  is  not  from  the  Greek 
watrx**t  to  suffer  t  but  from  the  Hebrew  HCfit  *  passing  over,  a 
sparing.]  " T 


426 


WORKS   OF   ST.    CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  VI. 


When  you  approach  to  take  bodily  food,  you 
wash  your  hands  and  your  mouth,  but  when  you 
draw  nigh  to  this  spiritual  food,  you  do  not 
cleanse  your  soul,  but  approach  full  of  unclean- 
ness.  But  you  say,  Are  not  the  forty  days' 
fastings  sufficient  to  cleanse  the  huge  heap  of 
our  sins?  But  of  what  use  is  it,  tell  me?  If 
wishing  to  store  up  some  precious  unguent,  you 
should  make  clean  a  place  to  receive  it,  and  a 
little  after  having  laid  it  up,  should  throw  dung 
upon  it,  would  not  the  fine  odor  vanish  ?  This 
takes  place  with  us  too.  We  make  ourselves  to  : 
the  best  of  our  power  worthy  to  approach ;  then  | 


we  defile  ourselves  again  !  What  then  is  the  good 
of  it  ?  This  we  say  even  of  those  who  are  able 
in  those  forty  days  to  wash  themselves  clean. 

Let  us  then,  I  beseech  you,  not  neglect  our 
salvation,  that  our  labor  may  not  be  in  vain. 
For  he  who  turns  from  his  sins,  and  goes  and 
commits  the  same  again,  is  "like  a  dog  that 
returneth  to  his  vomit."  (Prov.  xxvi.  n.) 
But  if  we  act  as  we  ought,  and  take  heed  to 
our  ways,  we  shall  be  thought  worthy  of  those 
high  rewards,  which  that  we  may  all  obtain, 
God  grant  through  the  grace  and  lovingkindness 
of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  with  whom,  &c. 


HOMILY    VI. 


i  Timothy  ii.  1-4. 


M I  exhort  therefore  that,  first  of  all,  supplications,  prayers, 
intercessions,  and  giving  of  thanks  be  made  for  all 
men;  for  kings,  and  for  all  that  are  in  authority; 
that  we  may  lead  a  quiet  and  peaceable  life  in  all 
godliness  and  honesty.  For  this  is  good  and  accept- 
able in  the  sight  of  God  our  Saviour;  who  will  have 
all  men  to  be  saved,  and  to  come  unto  the  knowl- 
edge of  the  truth."  [R.  V. :  who  willcth  that  all 
men  should  be  saved,  &c] 

The  Priest  is  the  common  father,  as  it  were, 
of  all  the  world ;  it  is  proper  therefore  that  he 
should  care  for  all,  even  as  God,  Whom  he 
serves.1  For  this  reason  he  says,  "  I  exhort 
therefore  that,  first  of  all,  supplications,  prayers, 
intercessions,  and  giving  of  thanks  be  made  for 
all  men."  From  this,  two  advantages  result. 
First,  hatred  towards  those  who  are  without  is 
done  away ;  for  no  one  can  feel  hatred  towards 
those  for  whom  he  prays :  and  they  again  are 
made  better  by  the  prayers  that  are  offered  for 
them,  and  by  losing  their  ferocious  disposition 
towards  us.  For  nothing  is  so  apt  to  draw  men 
under  teaching,  as  to  love,  and  be  loved.  Think 
what  it  was  for  those  who  persecuted,  scourged, 
banished,  and  slaughtered  the  Christians,  to  hear 
that  those  whom  they  treated  so  barbarously 
offered  fervent  prayers  to  God  for  them.2  Ob- 
serve how  he  wishes  a  Christian  to  be  superior 
to  alb  ill-treatment.  As  a  father  who  was  struck 
on  the  face  by  a  little  child  which  he  was  carry- 
ing, would  not  lose  anything  of  his  affection  for 
it ;  so  we  ought  not  to  abate  in  our  good  will 
towards  those  who  are  without,  even  when  we 
are  stricken  by  them.  What  is  "first  of  all"? 
It  means  in  the  daily  Service  ;  and  the  initiated 


know  how  this  is  done  every  day  both  in  the 
evening  and  the  morning,  how  we  offer  prayers 
for  the  whole  world,  for  kings  and  all  that  are  in 
authority.  But  some  one  perhaps  will  say,  he 
meant  not  for  all  men,  but  for  all  the  faithful. 
How  then  does  he  speak  of  kings?  for  kings 
were  not  then  worshipers  of  God,  for  there  wras 
a  long  succession  of  ungodly  princes.  And  that 
he  might  not  seem  to  flatter  them,  he  says  first, 
"  for  all  men,"  then  "  for  kings  "  ;  for  if  he  had 
only  mentioned  kings,  that  might  have  been 
suspected.  And  then  since  the  soul  of  some 
Christians  might  be  slow3  at  hearing  this,  and 
reject  the  exhortation,  if  at  the  celebration  of 
the  holy  Mysteries  it  was  necessary  to  offer 
prayers  for  a  heathen  king,  he  shows  them  the 
advantage  of  it,  thus  at  least  to  reconcile  them 
to  the  advice,  "  that  we  may  lead  a  quiet  and 
peaceable  life  " ;  as  much  as  to  say,  Their  safety 
is  a  security  to  us  ; 4  as  also  in  his  Epistle  to  the 
Romans,  he  exhorts  them  to  obey  their  rulers, 
"  not  for  wTath  but  for  conscience'  sake."  (Rom. 
xiii.  5.)  For  God  has  appointed  government 
for  the  public  good.  When  therefore  they  make 
war  for  this  end,  and  stand  on  guard  for  our 
security,  were  it  not  unreasonable  that  we  should 
not  offer  prayers  for  their  safety  in  wars  and 
dangers?  It  is  not  therefore  flattery,  but  agree- 
,  able  to  the  rules  of  justice.  For  if  they  were 
i  not  preserved,  and  prospered  in  their  wars,  our 
affairs  must  necessarily  be  involved  in  confusion 
.  and  trouble  ;  and  if  they  were  cut  off,  we  mu^t 
either  serve  ourselves,  or  be  scattered  up  ami 
down  as  fugitives.     For  they  are  a  sort  of  bul- 


1  <2  icpf  r<u. 

*  This  is  urped  by   Tcrtullian,  Apol.   i.  $  30,    and    Address    to  3  vapicfv. 

Scapula,  §  2.     See  also  St.  Justin,  M.  Apol.  i.  §  23.  1        4  See  on  Rom.  xiii.  6,  Horn,  xxiii. 


Homily  VI.] 


HOMILIES   ON   TIMOTHY. 


427 


warks  thrown  up  before  us,  within  which  those 
who  are  inclosed  are  in  peace  and  safety. 

He  says, "  supplications,  prayers,  intercessions, 
and  giving  of  thanks."  For  we  must  give  thanks 
to  God  for  the  good  that  befalls  others,  as  that 
He  maketh  the  sun  to  shine  upon  the  evil  and 
the  good,  and  sendeth  His  rain  both  upon  the 
just  and  the  unjust.  Observe  how  he  would 
unite  and  bind  us  together,  not  only  by  prayer 
but  by  thanksgiving.  For  he  who  is  urged  to 
thank  God  for  his  neighbor's  good,  is  also  bound 
to  love  him,  and  be  kindly  disposed  towards 
him.  And  if  we  must  give  thanks  for  our 
neighbor's  good,  much  more  for  what  happens 
to  ourselves,  and  for  what  is  unknown,  and  even 
for  things  against  our  will,  and  such  as  appear 
grievous  to  us,  since  God  dispenses  all  things  for 
our  good. 

Moral.  Let  every  prayer  of  ours,  then,  be 
>  accompanied  with  thanksgiving.  And  if  we  are 
commanded  to  pray  for  our  neighbors,  not  only 
for  the  faithful,  but  for  the  unbelieving  also,  con- 
sider how  wrong  it  is  to  pray  against  your  breth- 
ren. What  ?  Has  He  commanded  you  to  pray 
for  your  enemies,  and  do  you  pray  against  your 
brother?  But  your  prayer  is  not  against  him, 
but  against  yourself.  For  you  provoke  God 
by  uttering  those  impious  words,  "  Show  him 
the  same  !  "  "So  do  to  him  !  "  " Smite  him  !  " 
"  Recompense  him  !  "  Far  be  such  words  from 
the  disciple  of  Christ,  who  should  be  meek  and 
mild.  From  the  mouth  that  has  been  vouch- 
safed such  holy  Mysteries,  let  nothing  bitter  pro- 
ceed.1 Let  not  the  tongue  that  has  touched  the 
Lord's  Body  utter  anything  offensive,  let  it  be 
kept  pure,  let  not  curses  be  borne  upon  it.  For 
if  "  revilers  shall  not  inherit  the  kingdom  of 
God"  (1  Cor.  vi.  10),  much  less  those  who 
curse.  For  he  that  curses  must  be  injurious ; 
and  injuriousness  and  prayer  are  at  variance  with 
each  other,  cursing  and  praying  are  far  apart, 
accusation  and  prayer  are  wide  asunder.  Do 
you  propitiate  God  with  prayer,  and  then  utter 
imprecations?  If  you  forgive  not,  you  will  not 
be  forgiven.  (Matt.  vi.  15.)  But  instead  of 
forgiving,  you  beseech  God  not  to  forgive ;  what 
excessive  wickedness  in  this  !  If  the  unforgiving 
is  not  forgiven,  he  that  prays  his  Lord  not  to 
forgive,  how  shall  he  be  forgiven?  The  harm  is 
to  yourself,  not  him.  For  though  your  prayers 
were  on  the  point  of  being  heard  for  yourself, 
they  would  never  be  accepted  in  such  a  case,  as 
offered  with  a  polluted  mouth.  For  surely  the 
mouth  that  curses  is  polluted  with  all  that  is 
offensive  and  unclean. 

When  you  ought  to  tremble  for  your  own  sins, 
to  wrestle  earnestly  for  the  pardon  of  them,  you 
come  to  move  God  against  your  brother — do 

1  See  Jas.  iii.  n. 


you  not  fear,  nor  think  of  what  concerns  your- 
self? do  you  not  see  what  you  are  doing  ?  Imi- 
tate even  the  conduct  of  children  at  school.  If 
they  see  their  own  class  within  giving  account 
of  their  lessons,  and  all  beaten  for  their  idleness, 
and  one  by  one  severely  examined  and  chastised 
with  blows,  they  are  frightened  to  death,  and  if 
one  of  their  companions  strikes  them,  and  that 
severely,  they  carmot  have  while  to  be  angry, 
nor  complain  to  their  master ;  so  is  their  soul 
possessed  with  fear.  They  only  look  to  one 
thing,  that  they  may  go  in  and  come  out  with- 
out stripes,  and  their  thoughts  are  on  that  time. 
And  when  they  come  out,  whether  beaten  or  not, 
the  blows  they  have  received  from  their  play- 
fellows never  enter  their  minds  for  the  delight. 
And  you,  when  you  stand  anxiously  concerned 
for  your  own  sins,  how  can  you  but  shudder  at 
making  mention  of  others'  faults?2  How  can 
you  implore  pardon  of  God?  For  your  own 
case  is  made  worse  on  the  terms  of  your  impre- 
cations against  another,  and  you  forbid  Him  to 
make  allowance  for  your  own  faults.  Might  He 
not  say,  "  If  thou  wouldest  have  Me  so  severe  in 
exacting  offenses  against  thee,  how  canst  thou 
expect  Me  to  pardon  thy  offenses  against  Me?  " 
Let  us  learn  at  last  to  be  Christians  !  If  we 
know  not  how  to  pray,  which  is  a  very  simple 
and  easy  thing,  what  else  shall  we  know?  Let 
us  learn  to  pray  like  Christians.  Those  are  the 
prayers  of  Gentiles,  the  supplications  of  Jews. 
The  Christian's  are  the  reverse,  for  the  forgive- 
ness and  forgetting  of  offenses  against  us.  "  Be- 
ing reviled,"  it  is  said,  "  we  bless  ;  being  perse- 
cuted, we  suffer  it ;  being  defamed,  we  entreat." 
(1  Cor.  iv.  12,  13.)  Hear  Stephen  saying, 
"  Lord,  lay  not  this  sin  to  their  charge."  (Acts 
vi.  60.)  Instead  of  praying  against  them,  he 
prayed  for  them.  You,  instead  of  praying  for 
them,  utter  imprecations  against  them.  You 
then  are  wicked  in  the  degree  that  he  was  ex- 
cellent. Whom  do  we  admire,  tell  me  ;  those  for 
whom  he  prayed,  or  him  who  prayed  for  them  ? 
Him  certainly !  and  if  we,  much  more  then 
God.  Would  you  have  your  enemy  stricken? 
pray  for  him  :  yet  not  with  such  intention,  not 
to  strike  him.  That  will  indeed  be  the  effect, 
but  let  it  not  be  your  object.  That  blessed 
martyr  suffered  all  unjustly,  yet  he  prayed  for 
them :  we  suffer  many  things  justly  from  our 
enemies.  And  if  he  who  suffered  unjustly  durst 
not  forbear  to  pray  for  his  enemies,  what  punish- 
ment do  we  deserve,  who  suffer  justly,  and  yet 
do  not  pray  for  them,  nay,  pray  against  them  ? 
Thou  thinkest  indeed  that  thou  art  inflicting  a 
blow  upon  another,  but  in  truth  thou  art  thrust- 

3  In  the  Apostolical  Constitutions,  b.  viii.  c.  12,  the  Deacon  says, 
just  before  the  Offertory  Prayer, "  No  man  against  another!  no  man 
in  hypocrisy !  Upright  before  the  Lord  with  fear  and  trembling  let 
us  stand  to  offer!  '  The  first  sentence  shows  that  the  like  abuse 
was  apprehended. 


428 


WORKS   OF    ST.   CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  VI. 


ing  the  sword  against  thyself.  Thou  sufferest 
not  the  Judge  to  be  lenient  to  thy  own  offenses, 
by  this  way  of  urging  Him  to  anger  against 
others.  For,  "with  what  measure  ye  mete," 
He  saith,  "  it  shall  be  measured  to  you  again ; 
and  with  what  judgment  ye  judge,  ye  shall  be 
judged."  (Matt.  vii.  2.)  Let  us  therefore  be 
disposed  to  pardon,  that  God  may  be  so  dis- 
posed towards  us. 

These  things  I  wish  you  not  only  to  hear,  but 
to  observe.  For  now  the  memory  retains  only 
the  words,  and  perhaps  hardly  those.  And  after 
we  are  separated,  if  any  one  who  was  not  present 
were  to  ask  you,  what  had  been  our  discourse, 
some  could  not  tell :  others  would  know  merely 
the  subject  we  had  spoken  of,  and  answer  that 
there  had  been  a  Homily  upon  the  subject  of 
forgiving  injuries,  and  praying  for  our  enemies, 
but  would  omit  all  that  had  been  said,  as  they 
could  not  remember :  others  remember  a  little, 
but  still  somewhat.  If  therefore  you  gain  noth- 
ing by  what  you  hear,  I  entreat  you  not  even  to 
attend  at  the  discourse.  For  of  what  use  is  it  ? 
The  condemnation  is  greater,  the  punishment 
more  severe,  if  after  so  many  exhortations,  we 
continue  in  the  same  course.  For  this  reason 
God  has  given  us  a  definite  form  of  prayer,  that 
we  might  ask  for  nothing  human,  nothing  worldly. 
And  you  that  are  faithful  know  what  you  ought 
to  pray  for,  how  the  whole  Prayer  is  common. 
But  one  says,  "  It  is  not  commanded  there  to 
pray  for  unbelievers."  This  you  would  not  say, 
if  you  understood  the  force,  the  depth,  the  hid- 
den treasure  of  that l  Prayer.  Only  unfold  it, 
and  you  find  this  also  comprised  within  it.  For 
it  is  implied,  when  one  says  in  prayer,  "Thy 
will  be  done  on  earth,  as  it  is  in  Heaven." 
Now,  because  in  heaven  there  is  no  unbeliever, 
nor  offender ;  if  therefore  it  was  for  the  faithful 
alone,  there  would  be  no  reason  in  that  expres- 
sion. If  the  faithful  were  to  do  the  will  of  God, 
and  the  unbelievers  not  to  do  it,  His  will  were 
not  done  in  earth  as  it  is  in  heaven.  But  it 
means ;  As  there  is  none  wicked  in  heaven,  so 
let  there  be  none  on  earth ;  but  draw  all  men  to 
the  fear  of  Thee,  make  all  men  angels,  even 
those  who  hate  us,  and  are  our  enemies.  Dost 
thou  not  see  how  God  is  daily  blasphemed  and 
mocked  by  believers  and  unbelievers,  both  in 
word  and  in  deed  ?  What  then  ?  Has  He  for  this 
extinguished  the  sun?  or  stayed  the  course  of 
the  moon?  Has  He  crushed  the  heavens  and 
uprooted  the  earth  ?  Has  He  dried  up  the  sea  ? 
Has  He  shut  up  the  fountains  of  waters?  or  con- 
founded the  air?  Nay,  on  the  contrary,  He 
makes  His  sun  to  rise,  His  rain  to  descend, 
gives  the  fruits  of  the  earth  in  their  seasons,  and 
thus  supplies  yearly  nourishment  to  the  blas- 


»  Gr.  "  the." 


phemers,  to  the  insensible,  to  the  polluted,  to 
persecutors;  not  for  one  day  or  two,  but  for 
their  whole  life.  Imitate  Him  then,  emulate 
Him  as  far  as  human  powers  admit.  Canst  thou 
not  make  the  sun  arise?  Abstain  from  evil 
speaking.  Canst  thou  not  send  rain  ?  Forbear 
reviling.  Canst  thou  not  give  food?  'Refrain 
from  insolence.  Such  gifts  from  thee  are  suf- 
ficient. The  goodness  of  God  to  His  enemies 
is  shown  by  His  works.  Do  thou  so  at  least  by 
words :  pray  for  thine  enemies,  so  wilt  thou  be 
like  thy  Father  who  is  in  heaven.  How  many 
times  have  we  discoursed  upon  this  subject !  nor 
shall  we  cease  to  discourse  ;  only  let  something 
come  of  it.  It  is  not  that  we  are  drowsy,  and 
weary  of  speaking ;  only  do  not  you  that  hear 
be  annoyed.  Now  a  person  seems  to  be  an- 
noyed, when  he  will  not  do  what  one  says.  For 
he  who  practices,  loves  often  to  hear  the  same 
thing,  and  is  not  annoyed  by  it ;  for  it  is  his 
own  commendation.  But  annoyance  arises  sim- 
ply from  not  doing  what  is  prescribed.  Hence 
the  speaker  is  troublesome.  If  a  man  practices 
almsgiving,  and  hears  another  speak  of  alms- 
giving, he  is  not  wearied,2  but  pleased,  for  he 
hears  his  own  good  actions  recommended  and 
proclaimed.  So  that  when  we  are  displeased  at 
hearing  a  discourse  upon  the  forgiveness  of 
injuries,  it  is  because  we  have  no  interest  in 
forbearance,  it  is  not  practiced  by  us ;  for  if 
we  had  the  reality,  we  should  not  be  pained  at 
its  being  named.  If  therefore  you  would  not 
have  us  wearisome  or  annoying,  practice  as  we 
preach,  exhibit  in  your  actions  the  subject  of 
our  discourses.  For  we  shall  never  cease  dis- 
coursing upon  these  things  till  your  conduct 
is  agreeable  to  them.  And  this  we  do  more 
especially  from  our  concern  and  affection  for 
you.  For  the  trumpeter  must  sound  his  trum- 
pet, though  no  one  should  go  out  to  war ;  he 
must  fulfill  his  part.  We  do  it,  not  as  wishing  to 
bring  heavier  condemnation  upon  you,  but  to 
avert  it  from  ourselves.  And  besides  this,  love 
for  vou  constrains  us,  for  it  would  tear  and  tor- 
ture  our  hearts  if  that  should  befall  you,  which 
God  avert !  It  is  not  any  costly  process  that  we 
recommend  to  you :  it  does  not  require  the 
spoiling  of  goods,  nor  a  long  and  toilsome 
journey.  It  is  only  to  will.  It  is  a  word,  it  is  a 
purpose  of  the  mind.  Let  us  only  set  a  guard 
on  our  tongues,  a  door  and  a  bar  upon  our  lips, 
that  we  may  utter  nothing  offensive  to  God.  It 
is  for  our  own  advantage,  not  for  theirs  for  whom 
we  pray,  to  act  thus.  For  let  us  ever  consider, 
that  he  who  blesses  his  enemy,  blesses  himself, 
he  who  curses  his  enemy,  curses  himself,  and  he 
who  prays  for  his  enemy,  prays  not  for  him,  but 

3  anoKvaiei.     Dounaeus  conjectures  an-oxwt.    The  other  is  usu- 
ally transitive. 


Homily  VII.] 


HOMILIES   ON   TIMOTHY. 


for  himself.  If  we  thus  act,  we  shall  be  able  to 
reduce  tg  practice  this  excellent  virtue,1  and  so 
to  obtain  the  promised  blessings,  through    the 


429 


grace  and   lovingkindness  of  our  Lord  Jesus 
Christ. 


HOMILY    VII. 


1  Timothy  ii.  2-4. 


u 


That  we  may  lead  a  quiet  and  peaceable  life  in  all  god- 
liness and  honesty.  For  this  is  good  and  acceptable 
in  the  sight  of  God  our  Saviour;  who  willeth  that 
all  men  should  be  saved,  and  come  unto  the  knowl- 
edge of  the  truth." 


If  in  order  to  put  an  end  to  public  wars,  and 
tumults,  and  battles,  the  Priest  is  exhorted  to 
offer  prayers  for  kings  and  governors,  much  more 
ought  private  individuals  to  do  it.  For  there 
are  three  very  grievous  kinds  of  war.  The  one 
is  public,  when  our  soldiers  are  attacked  by 
foreign  armies :  The  second  is,  when  even  in 
time  of  peace,  we  are  at  war  with  one  another : 
The  third  is,  when  the  individual  is  at  war  with 
himself,  which  is  the  worst  of  all.  For  foreign 
war  will  not  be  able  to  hurt  us  greatly.  What,  I 
pray,  though  it  slaughters  and  cuts  us  off?  It 
injures  not  the  soul.  Neither  will  the  second 
have  power  to  harm  us  against  our  will ;  for. 
though  others  be  at  war  with  us,  we  may  be 
peaceable  ourselves.  For  so  says  the  Prophet, 
"  For  my  love  they  are  my  adversaries,  but  I 
give  myself  unto  prayer"  (Ps.  cix.  4)  ;  and 
again,  "  I  was  at  peace  with  them  that  hate 
peace "  ;  and,  "  I  am  for  peace ;  but  when  I 
speak,  they  are  for  war."  (Ps.  cxx.  6,  7,  Sept.) 
But  from  the  third,  we  cannot  escape  without 
danger.  For  when  the  body  is  at  variance  with 
the  soul,  and  raises  up  evil  desires,  and  arms 
against  it  sensual  pleasures,  or  the  bad  passions  of 
anger,  and  envy ;  we  cannot  attain  the  promised 
blessings,  till  this  war  is  brought  to  an  end  ;  who- 
ever does  not  still  this  tumult,  must  fall  pierced 
by  wounds  that  will  bring  that  death  that  is  in  hell. 
We  have  daily  need  therefore  of  care  and  great 
anxiety,  that  this  war  may  not  be  stirred  up 
within  us,  or  that,  if  stirred  up,  it  may  not  last, 
but  be  quelled  and  laid  asleep.  For  what 
advantage  is  it,  that  the  world  enjoys  profound 
peace,  if  thou  art  at  war  with  thyself?  This 
then  is  the  peace  we  should  keep.  If  we  have 
it,  nothing  from  without  will  be  able  to  harm  us. 
And  to  this  end  the  public  peace  contributes  no 
little  :  whence  it  is  said,  "  That  we  may  lead  a 


1  He  evidently  hints  at  a  higher  degree  of  Christian  feeling,  in 
which  a  man  would  simply  wish  well  to  his  enemies,  and  therefore 
pray  for  them.  See  on  Phil.  i.  30,  Horn,  iv.,  and  on  Rom.  xii. 
20,  Horn.  xxii. 


quiet  and  peaceable  life."  But  if  any  one  is  dis- 
turbed when  there  is  quiet,  he  is  a  miserable 
creature.  Seest  thou  that  He  speaks  of  this 
peace  which  I  call  the  third  kind  ?  Therefore 
when  he  has  said,  "  that  we  may  lead  a  quiet  and 
peaceable  life,"  he  does  not  stop  there,  but 
adds,  "  in  all  godliness  and  honesty."  But  we 
cannot  live  in  godliness  and  honesty,  unless 
that  peace  be  established.  For  when  curious 
reasonings  disturb  our  faith,  what  peace  is  there  ? 
or  when  spirits  of  uncleanness,  what  peace  is 
there  ? 

For  that  we  may  not  suppose  that  he  speaks 
of  that  sort  of  life  which  all  men  live,  when  he 
says,  "  that  we  may  lead  a  quiet  and  peaceable 
life,"  he  adds,  "  in  all  godliness  and  honesty," 
since  a  quiet  and  peaceable  life  may  be  led  by 
heathens,  and  profligates,  and  voluptuous  and 
wanton  persons  may  be  found  living  such  a  life. 
That  this  cannot  be  meant,  is  plain,  from  what 
he  adds,  "  in  all  godliness  and  honesty."  Such 
a  life  is  exposed  to  snares,  and  conflicts,  and 
the  soul  is  daily  wounded  by  the  tumults  of  its 
own  thoughts.  But  what  sort  of  life  he  really 
means  is  plain  from  the  sequel,  and  plain  too, 
in  that  he  speaks  not  simply  of  godliness,  but 
adds,  of  "  all  godliness."  For  in  saying  this  he 
seems  to  insist  on  a  godliness  not  only  of  doc- 
trine, but  such  as  is  supported  by  life,  for  in 
both  surely  must  godliness  be  required.  For 
of  what  advantage  is  it  to  be  godly  as  to  doc- 
trine, but  ungodly  in  life?  and  that  it  is  very 
possible  to  be  ungodly  in  life,  hear  this  same 
blessed  Apostle  saying  elsewhere,  "They  pro- 
fess that  they  know  God,  but  in  works  they 
deny  Him."  (Tit.  i.  16.)  And  again,  "  He 
hath  denied  the  faith,  and  is  worse  than  an  in- 
fidel." (1  Tim.  v.  8.)  And,  "  If  any  man  that 
is  called  a  brother  be  a  fornicator,  or  covetous, 
or  an  idolater"  (i  Cor.  v.  n),  such  a  man 
honors  not  God.  And,  "  He  that  hateth  his 
brother,  knoweth  not  God."  (i  John  ii.  9.) 
Such  are  the  various  ways  of  ungodliness.  There- 
fore he  says,  "All  godliness  and  good  order."* 
For  not  only  is  the  fornicator  not  honest,  but 


3  <rc  Mwnrri.    This  word  expresses  the  highest  kind  of  "sobriety/ 
"  Honesty,"  when  used  for  it,  has  the  Latin  meaning. 


430 


WORKS   OF   ST.   CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  VIL 


the  covetous  man  may  be  called  disorderly  and 
intemperate.  For  avarice  is  a  lust  no  less  than 
the  bodily  appetites,  which  he  who  does  not 
chastise,  is  called  dissolute.1  For  men  are  called 
dissolute  from  not  restraining  their  desires,  so 
that  the  passionate,  the  envious,  the  covetous, 
the  deceitful,  and  every  one  that  lives  in  sin, 
may  be  called  dissolute,  disorderly,  and  licen- 
tious. 

Ver.  3.  "  For  this  is  good  and  acceptable  in 
the  sight  of  God  our  Saviour." 

What  is  said  to  be  "  acceptable  "  ?  The  pray- 
ing for  all  men.  This  God  accepts,  this  He 
wills. 

Ver.  4.  *'  Who  willeth  that  all  men  should  be 
saved,  and  come  to  the  knowledge  of  the  truth." 

Imitate  God  !  if  He  willeth  that  all  men  should 
be  saved,  there  is  reason  why  one  should  pray  for 
all,  if  He  hath  willed  that  all  should  be  saved,  be 
thou  willing  also  ;  and  if  thou  wishest  it,  pray  for 
it,  for  wishes  lead  to  prayers.  Observe  how  from 
every  quarter  He  urges  this  upon  the  soul,  to 
pray  for  the  Heathen,  showing  how  great  advan- 
tage springs  from  it ;  "  that  we  may  lead  a  quiet 
and  peaceable  life " ;  and  what  is  much  more 
than  this,  that  it  is  pleasing  to  God,  and  thus 
men  become  like  Him,  in  that  they  will  the 
same  that  He  does.  This  is  enough  to  shame 
a  very  brute.  Fear  not  therefore  to  pray  for 
the  Gentiles,  for  God  Himself  wills  it ;  but  fear 
only  to  pray  against  any,  for  that  He  wills  not. 
And  if  you  pray  for  the  Heathens,  you  ought 
of  course  to  pray  for  Heretics  also,  for  we  are 
to  pray  for  all  men,  and  not  to  persecute.2 
And  this  is  good  also  for  another  reason,  as  we 
are  partakers  of  the  same  nature,  and  God  com- 
mands and  accepts  benevolence  and  affection 
towards  one  another. 

But  if  the  Lord  Himself  wills  to  give,  you  say. 
what  need  of  my  prayer?  It  is  of  great  benefit 
both  to  them  and  to  thyself.  It  draws  them  to 
love,  and  it  inclines  thee  to  humanity.  It  has 
the  power  of  attracting  others  to  the  faith  ;  ( for 
many  men  have  fallen  away  from  God,  from 
contentiousness  towards  one  another ;)  and  this5 
is  what  he  now  calls  the  salvation  of  God,  •*  who 
will  have  all  men  to  be  saved " ;  without  this 
all  other  is  nothing  great,  a  mere  nominal  salva- 
tion/ and  only  in  words.  "  And  to  come  to  the 
knowledge  of  the  truth."  The  truth:  what 
truth?  Faith  in  Him.  And  indeed  he  had 
previously  said.  "  Charge  some  that  they  teach 
n^  o:her  doctrine."     Hut  that  no  one  mav  con- 


•  7>.:-  .-«:"  c.-viT*e  i.1**  »„*«  wspfv  tin:  Heretic*  naf^::  »x  be  yre- 

v,rsr;.  :-.-■;?.  .:s;:rr«:ri  cV.-r.dbes.  rvt  trier  per*.v»  *£=xaied.  H.-et. 
Oc  Itn.vct.7T  :■..  t.r.  Bcr.  :.  1  £■.  ^fr.  a.-«r  their  ivrrrse*  asatbem*- 
:..-*■-•.  Hie  it  Ar^:b«a*t  st-  i.  v.  7-  t\X  k*t  the  Ci-rcif*  as- 
*r:wv*  ."c  t*ltt:ts  tr*-ir  :.-  jca:V..  *er  the  case  .-c"  Prvouh&r.  c  tiie 
v."i.   ,-c  F«cu">  «■  V-v  .  Hscrrr     ?cVi>tT.  »  t.  ."r.-jr_  ITT    145 


sider  such  as  enemies,  and  on  that  account  raise 
troubles  *  against  them  ;  he  says  that "  He  willeth 
that  all  men  should  be  saved,  and  come  to  the 
knowledge  of  the  truth  "  ;  and  having  said  this, 
he  adds, 

Ver.  5.  "  For  there  is  one  God,  and  one  Me- 
diator between  God  and  men." 

He  had  before  said,  "  to  come  to  the  knowl- 
edge of  the  truth,"  implying  that  the  world  is 
not  in  the  truth.  Now  he  says,  "  that  there  is 
one  God,"  that  is,  not  as  some  say,  many,  and 
that  He  has  sent  His  Son  as  Mediator,  thus 
giving  proof  that  He  will  have  all  men  to  be 
saved.  But  is  not  the  Son  God?  Most  truly 
He  is;  why  then  does  he  say,  "One  God"? 
In  contradistinction  to  the  idols ;  not  to  the 
Son.  For  he  is  discoursing  about  truth  and 
error.  Now  a  mediator  ought  to  have  com- 
munion with  both  parties,  between  whom  he  is 
to  mediate.  For  this  is  the  property  of  a  medi- 
ator, to  be  in  close  communion  with  each  of 
those  whose  mediator  he  is.  For  he  would  be 
no  longer  a  mediator,  if  he  were  connected  with 

J  one  but  separated  from  the  other.*     If  therefore 

j  He  partakes  not  of  the  nature  of  the  Father,  He 
is  not  a  Mediator,  but  is  separated.     For  as 

■  He  is  partaker  of  the  nature  of  men,  because  He 
came  to  men,  so  is  He  partaker  of  the  nature 

.  of  God,  because  He  came  from  God.  Because 
He  was  to  mediate  between  two  natures,  He 
must  approximate  to  the  two  natures  ;  for  as  the 

*  place  situated  between  two  others  is  joined  to 
each  place,  so  must  that  between  natures  be 
joined  to  either  nature.     As  therefore  He  be- 

i  came  Man,  so  was  He  also  God.     A  man  could 

\  not  have  become  a  mediator,  because  he  must 
also  plead  with  God.  God  could  not  have  been 
mediator,  since  those  could  not  receive  Him, 
toward  whom  He  should  have  mediated.  And 
as  elsewhere  he  says,  -There  is  one  God  the 
Father, .  .  .  and  one  Lord  Jesus  Christ "  (i  Cor. 
viii.  6 )  :  so  also  here  -  One  "  God,  and  " One" 
Mediator :  he  does  not  say  two :  for  he  would 
not  have  that  number  wrested  to  Polytheism, 
of  which  he  was  speaking.  So  he  wrote  u  One" 
and  "One."  You  see  how  accurate  are  the 
expressions  of  Scripture  \  For  tfx>ngh  one  and 
one  are  two,  we  are  no:  to  say  trn^  though  rea- 
son suggests  it.  And  here  iho<u  savest  not  one 
and  one  are  two,  and  yet  thou  savest  what  reason 
does  not  suggest.  - 1:  He  begat  He  also  suf- 
fered."7 "For  there  is  one  Vk>l"  he  says, 
"  and  one  Mediator  between  God  and  men,  the 
Man  Christ  Tesus." 


:  r. 


:>e  ;wz.-.r.£  :.-  tSe  F*.::Y.      S*y.  m* 


-    h«*- 


Sc  ?».-»  ,■£  .*»•  >*.  vatv*t:  *     ;r.»  irar..   .     See  P*.  i;r»-ii-.  i. 
*  T><  v- ret  *  »■  -/  :s  &rc>'*>rj&«  *.*  rwifT 


*  >«  >«-  .*£»»■»».  E?-  -■«  New  r«ev-ee^  ju   Tr  p.  ♦»• 

-  m#n.     N«  xx  iac  «ercc  ».»«£   it    SfcMV.air.isir..     He  itfa» 

:;■  *r  Anas  c?u«r-  ^S*^  «*  *™w  r».»-»:i:x  .-*  -^c  Son.  w** 

he  ocjtto-  *  jess  raaahr  tfckr  w   mhv:  :*«*  r**ss*«  of  St.  F*l 

sh.^-*  i»-c  v  *e  upspuit      See   Si    v.s.  *cani   ^Ji-n.  Dvc  »i 


Homily  VII.] 


HOMILIES   ON   TIMOTHY. 


431 


Ver.  6.  "  Who  gave  Himself  a  ransom  for.  all, 
to  be  testified l  in  due  time." 

Was  Christ  then  a  ransom  for  the  Heathen  ? 
Undoubtedly  Christ  died  even  for  Heathen; 
and  you  cannot  bear  to  pray  for  them.  Why 
then,  you  ask,  did  they  not  believe?  Because 
they  would  not :  but  His  part  was  done.  His 
suffering  was  a  "Testimony,"  he  says;  for  He 
came,  it  is  meant,  "to  bear  witness  to  the  truth" 
of  the  Father,  and  was  slain.2  Thus  not  only 
the  Father  bore  witness  to  Him,  but  He  to  the 
Father.  "  For  I  came,"  He  saith,  "  in  my 
Father's  name."  (John  v.  43.)  And  again, 
"  No  man  hath  seen  God  at  any  time."  (John 
i.  18.)  And  again,  "That  they  might  know 
Thee,  the  only  true  God."  (John  xvii.  3.)  And, 
"God  is  a  Spirit."  (John  iv.  24.)  And  He 
bore  witness  even  to  the  death.  But  this,  "  in 
due  time,"  means,  In  the  fittest  time. 

Ver.  7.  "  Whereunto  I  am  ordained  a  preacher 
and  an  Apostle,  (I  speak  the  truth  in  Christ,  and 
lie  not : )  a  teacher  of  the  Gentiles  in  faith  and 
verity." 

Since  therefore  Christ  suffered  for  the  Gen- 
tiles, and  I  was  separated  to  be  a  "  teacher  of 
the  Gentiles,"  why  dost  thou  refuse  to  pray  for 
them?  He  fully  shows  his  own  credibility,  by 
saying  that  he  was  "ordained"  (Acts  xiii.  2), 
that  is,  separated,  for  this  purpose,  the  other 
Apostles  being  backward 8  in  teaching  the  Gen- 
tiles ;  he  adds,  "  in  faith  and  verity,"  to  show 
that  in  that  faith  there  was  no  deceit.  Here  is 
observable  the  extension  of  grace.  For  the  Jews 
had  no  prayers  for  the  Gentiles ;  but  now  grace 
is  extended  to  them  :  and  when  he  says  that  he 
was  separated  to  be  a  Teacher  of  the  Gentiles, 
he  intimates  that  grace  was  now  shed  over  every 
part  of  the  world. 

"He  gave  himself  a  ransom,"  he  saith,  how 
then  was  He  delivered  up  by  the  Father  ?  Be- 
cause it  was  of  His  goodness.  And  what  means 
"  ransom  "  ?  God  was  about  to  punish  them, 
but  He  forbore  to  do  it.  They  were  about  to 
perish,  but  in  their  stead  He  gave  His  own  Son, 
and  sent  us  as  heralds  to  proclaim  the  Cross. 
These  things  are  sufficient  to  attract  all,  and  to 
demonstrate  the  love  of  Christ.  Moral.  So 
truly,  so  inexpressibly  great  are  the  benefits 
which  God  has  bestowed  upon  us.  He  sacri- 
ficed Himself  for  His  enemies,  who  hated  and 
rejected  Him.  What  no  one  would  do  for 
friends,  for  brethren,  for  children,  that  the  Lord 
hath  done  for  His  servants ;  a  Lord  not  Himself 
such  an  one  as  His  servants,  but  God  for  men  ; 
for  men  not  deserving.  For  had  they  been  de- 
serving, had  they  done  His  pleasure,  it  would 

1  Lit.  *'  the  Testimony." 

*  He  seems  to  mean,     was  slain  for  that  purpose." 

3  (vapicutv.     Montf.  observes  that  all  copies  agree,  and  that  this 

may  be  true  of  the  countries  mentioned  in  the  Acts  of  the  Apostles, 

but  not  universally. 


have  been  less  wonderful ;  but  that  He  died  for 
such  ungrateful,  such  obstinate  creatures,  this  it 
is  which  strikes  every  mind  with  amazement. 
For  what  men  would  not  do  for  their  fellow- 
men,  that  has  God  done  for  us  !  Yet  after  such 
a  display  of  love  towards  us,  we  hold  back,4  and 
are  not  in  earnest  in  our  love  of  Christ.  He  has 
sacrificed  Himself  for  us ;  for  Him  we  make  no 
sacrifice.  We  neglect  Him  when  He  wants 
necessary  food ;  sick  and  naked  we  visit  Him 
not.  What  do  we  not  deserve,  what  wrath,  what 
punishment,  what  hell?  Were  there  no  other 
inducement,  it  should  be  sufficient  to  prevail 
with  every  one  that  He  condescended  to  make 
human  sufferings  His  own,  to  say  I  hunger,  I 
thirst. 

O  the  tyranny  of  wealth  !  or  rather  the  wick- 
edness of  those  who  are  its  willing  slaves  !  for  it 
has  no  great  power  of  itself,  but  through  our 
weakness  and  servility  : 5  it  is  we  that  are  mean 
and  groveling,  that  are  carnal  and  without  un- 
derstanding. For  what  power  has  money  ?  It 
is  mute  and  insensible.  If  the  devil,  that  wicked 
spirit,  that  crafty  confounder  of  all  things,  has 
no  power,*  what  power  has  money  ?  When  you 
look  upon  silver,  fancy  it  is  tin  !  Cannot  you  ? 
Then  hold  it  for  what  it  really  is ;  for  earth  it  is. 
But  if  you  cannot  reason  thus,  consider  that  we 
too  shall  perish,  that  many  of  those  who  have 
possessed  it  have  gained  scarce  any  advantage 
by  it,  that  thousands  who  gloried  in  it  are  now 
dust  and  ashes.  That  they  are  suffering  extreme 
punishment,  and  far  more  beggarly  than  they 
that  fed  from  glass  and  earthenware ;  that  those 
who  once  reclined  on  ivory  couches,  are  poorer 
now  than  those  who  are  lying  on  the  dunghill. 
But  it  delights  the  eyes  !  How  many  other 
things  delight  them  more  !  The  flowers,  the 
pure  sky,  the  firmament,  the  bright  sun,  are  far 
more  grateful  to  the  eye.  For  it  hath  much  of 
rust,  whence  some  have  asserted  that  it  was 
black,  which  appears  from  the  images  that  turn 
black.  But  there  is  no  blackness  in  the  sun, 
the  heaven,  the  stars.  Much  greater  delight  is 
there  in  these  brilliants 7  than  in  its  color.  It  is 
not  therefore  its  brilliancy  8  that  makes  it  please, 
but  covetousness  and  iniquity ;  these,  and  not 
money,  give  the  pleasure.  Cast  these  from  thy 
soul,  and  what  appeared  so  precious  will  seem 
to  thee  more  worthless  than  clay.  Those  who 
are  in  a  fever  long  for  mud  when  they  see  it,  as 
if  it  were  spring  water;  but  those  in  sound 
health  seldom  wish  even  for  water.  Cast  off 
this  morbid  longing,  and  thou  wilt  see  things 
as  they  are.  And  to  prove  that  I  do  not  speak 
falsely,  know,  that  I  can  point  out  many  who 


*  a.KKt£6nt$a. 

5  One  MS.  and  old  Lat.  "  dissoluteness." 

8  i.e.  over  those  who  resist  him. 

7  Lit.  "  flowers."    See  on  Stat.  Horn.  ix.  3. 

•  Lit.  "  flower." 


432 


WORKS   OF   ST.    CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  VIII. 


have  done  so.  Quench  this  flame,  and  thou  wilt 
see  that  these  things  are  of  less  worth  than 
flowers. 

Is  gold  good  ?  Yes,  it  is  good  for  almsgiving, 
for  the  relief  of  the  poor ;  it  is  good,  not  for 
unprofitable  use,  to  be  hoarded  up  or  buried  in 
the  earth,  to  be  worn  on  the  hands  or  the  feet 
or  the  head.  It  was  discovered  for  this  end, 
that  with  it  we  should  loose  the  captives,  not 
form  it  into  a  chain  for  the  image  of  God.  Use 
thy  gold  for  this,  to  loose  him  that  is  bound, 
not  to  chain  her  that  is  free.  Tell  me,  why  dost 
thou  value  above  all  things  what  is  of  so  little 
worth  ?  Is  it  the  less  a  chain,  because  it  is  of 
gold  ?  does  the  material  make  any  difference  ? l 
whether  it  be  gold  or  iron,  it  is  still  a  chain ;  nay 
the  gold  is  the  heavier.  What  then  makes  it 
light,  but  vainglory,  and  the  pleasure  of  being 
seen  to  wear  a  chain,  of  which  you  ought  rather 
to  be  ashamed?  To  make  this  evident,  fasten 
it,  and  place  the  wearer  in  a  wilderness  or  where 
there  is  no  one  to  see,  and  the  chain  will  at  once 
be  felt  heavy,  and  thought  burdensome. 


Beloved,  let  us  fear,  lest  we  be  doomed  to 
hear  those  terrible  words,  "  Bind  him  hand  and 
foot."  (Matt.  xxii.  13.)  And  why,  O  woman, 
dost  thou  now  do  so  to  thyself?  No  prisoner 
has  both  his  hands  and  his  feet  bound.  Whv 
bindest  thou  thy  head  too?  For  thou  art  not 
content  with  hands  and  feet,  but  bindest  thy 
head  and  thy  neck  with  many  chains.  I  pass 
over  the  care  that  comes  of  these  things,  the 
fear,  the  alarm,  the  strife  occasioned  by  them 
with  thy  husband  if  ever  he  wants  them,  the 
death  it  is  to  people  when  they  lose  any  of  them. 
Canst  thou  call  this  a  pleasure  ?  To  gratify  the 
eyes  of  others,  dost  thou  subject  thyself  to 
chains,  and  cares,  and  perils,  and  uneasiness, 
and  daily  quarrels?  This  is  deserving  of  even- 
censure  and  condemnation.  Nay,  I  entreat  you, 
let  us  not  do  thus,  let  us  burst  every  "  bond  of 
iniquity  "  (Acts  viii.  23)  ;  let  us  break  our  bread 
to  the  hungry,  and  let  us  do  all  other  things, 
which  may  ensure  to  us  confidence  before  God, 
that  we  may  obtain  the  blessings  promised 
through  Jesus  Christ  our  Lord,  with  whom,  &c. 


HOMILY    VIII 


1  Timothy  ii.  8-10. 


4< 


I  will  therefore  that  men  pray  everywhere,  lifting  up 
holy  hands,  without  wTath  and  doubting.  In  like 
manner  also,  that  women  adorn  themselves  in 
modest  apparel,  with  shamefacedness  and  sobriety ; 
not  with  broidered  hair,  or  gold,  or  pearls,  or  costly 
array;  but  (which  becometh  women  professing 
godliness)  with  good  works." 


14  When  thou  prayest,"  saith  Christ,  "  thou 
shalt  not  be  as  the  hypocrites  are  ;  for  they  love 
to  pray  standing  in  the  synagogues  and  in  the 
corners  of  the  streets,  that  thev  mav  be  seen  of 
men.  Verily  I  say  unto  you,  they  have  their  re- 
waul.  But  thou,  when  thou  prayest,  enter  into 
thv  closet,  and  when  thou  hast  shut  thv  door/ 
pray  to  thy  Father,  which  is  in  secret ;  and  thy 
Father,  which  seeth  in  secret,  shall  reward  thee 
openly."  (Matt.  vi.  5,  6.)  What  then  says 
Paul?  "I  will  therefore  that  men  pray  even- 
where,  lifting  up  holy  hands,  without  wrath  and 
doubting."  This  is  not  contrary  to  the  other, 
God  forbid,  but  quite  in  harmony  with  it.  But 
how,  and  in  what  way?  We  must  first  consider 
what  means.  **  enter  into  thv  closet,"  and  whv 
Christ  commands  this,  if  we  are  to  pray  in  every 
place?  or  whether  we  may  not  pray  in  the 
church,  nor  in  any  other  part  of  the  house,  but 


the  closet?  What  then  means  that  saying? 
Christ  is  recommending  us  to  avoid  ostenta- 
tion, when  He  bids  us  offer  our  prayers  no't  only 
privately,  but  secretly.  For,  when  He  says, 
"  Let  not  thy  left  hand  know  what  thy  right 
hand  doeth"  (Matt.  vi.  3),  it  is  not  the  hands 
that  He  considers,  but  He  is  bidding  them  use 
the  utmost  caution  against  ostentation :  and 
He  is  doing  the  like  here ;  He  did  not  limit 
prayer  to  one  place,  but  required  one  thing 
alone,  the  absence  of  vainglory.  The  object  of 
Paul  is  to  distinguish  the  Christian  from  the 
Jewish  prayers,  therefore  observe  what  he  says : 
'*  In  every  place  lifting  up  holy  hands,"  which 
was  not  permitted  the  Jews,  for  they  were  not 
allowed  to  approach  God,  to  sacrifice  and  per- 
form their  services,  elsewhere,  but  assembling 
from  all  parts  of  the  world  in  one  place,  they 
were  bound  to  perform  all  their  worship  *  in  the 
temple.  In  opposition  to  this  he  introduces  his 
precept,  and  freeing  them  from  this  necessity. 
he  savs  in  effect,  Our  wavs  are  not  like  the 
Jewish  :  for  as  Christ  commanded  us  to  pray 
for  all  men  because  He  died  for  all  men.  and  I 
preach  these  things  for  all  men.  so  it  is  good  to 
"  pray  everywhere."    Henceforth  the  consider- 


**   l.ii.  "*  N  it  the  material  that  makes  (an  iron  chain)  a  chain?  " 


ra  TifK  a^ioTCtac. 


Homily  VIII.] 


HOMILIES   ON   TIMOTHY. 


433 


ition  is  not  of  the  place  but  of  the  manner  of 
iie  prayer ;  "  pray  everywhere,"  but  "  every- 
where lift  up  holy  hands."  That  is  the  thing  re- 
quired. And  what  is  "  holy"  P1  Pure.  And  what 
s  pure  ?  Not  washed  with  water,  but  free  from 
:ovetousness,  murder,  rapacity,  violence,  "  with- 
out wrath  and  doubting."  What  means  this? 
WTio  is  angry  when  he  prays?  It  means,  with- 
out bearing  malice.  Let  the  mind  of  him  that 
prays  be  pure,  freed  from  all  passion.  Let  no 
Dne  approach  God  in  enmity,  or  in  an  unamiable 
temper,  or  with  "doubting."  What  is  "without 
doubting"?  Let  us  hear.  It  implies  that  we 
should  have  no  misgiving  but  that  we  shall  be 
beard.  For  it  is  said,  "whatever  ye  ask  believ- 
ing ye  shall  receive."  (Matt.  xxi.  22.)  And 
again,  "when  ye  stand  praying  forgive,  if  ye 
have  aught  against  any  one."  (Mark  xi.  25.) 
This  is  to  pray  without  wrath  and  doubting. 
But  how  can  I  believe  that  I  shall  obtain  my 
request?  By  asking  nothing  opposed  to  that 
which  He  is  ready  to  grant,  nothing  unworthy 
of  the  great  King,  nothing  worldly,  but  all 
spiritual  blessings  ;  if  you  approach  Him  "  with- 
out wrath,"  having  pure  hands,  "  holy  hands  "  : 
hands  employed  in  almsgiving  are  holy.  Ap- 
proach Him  thus,  and  you  will  certainly  obtain 
your  request.  "  For  if  ye  being  evil  know  how 
to  give  good  gifts  to  your  children,  how  much 
more  shall  your  Father  which  is  in  Heaven  give 
yood  things  to  them  that  ask  Him? "  (Matt.  vii. 
11.)  By  doubting  he  means  misgiving.  In  like 
manner  he  says,  I  will  that  women  approach 
Sod  without  wrath  and  doubting,  lifting  up  holy 
lands  :  that  they  should  not  follow  their  own 
iesires,  nor  be  covetous  or  rapacious.  For  what 
if  a  woman  does  not  rob  or  steal  herself,  but 
does  it  through  means  of  her  husband?  Paul 
however  requires  something  more  of  women, 
that  they  adorn  themselves  "  in  modest  apparel, 
with  shamefacedness  and  sobriety;  not  with 
broidered  hair  or  gold  or  pearls  or  costly  array ; 
but  (which  becometh  women  professing  god- 
liness) with  good  works."  But  what  is  this 
"  modest  apparel  "?  Such  attire  as  covers  them 
completely,  and  decently,  not  with  superfluous 
ornaments,  for  the  one  is  becoming,  the  other  is 
not. 

Moral.  What?  Dost  thou  approach  God  to 
pray,  with  broidered  hair  and  ornaments  of 
gold?  Art  thou  come  to  a  dance?  to  a  mar- 
riage? to  a  gay  procession?  There  such  a 
broidery,  such  costly  garments,  had  been  season- 
able, here  not  one  of  them  is  wanted.  Thou 
art  come  to  pray,  to  supplicate  for  pardon  of 
thy  sins,  to  plead  for  thine  offenses,  beseeching 
the  Lord,  and  hoping  to  render  Him  propitious 
to  thee.    Why  dost  thou  adorn  thyself?    This  is 


1    <X7iOV«. 


not  the  dress  of  a  suppliant.  How  canst  thou 
groan?  How  canst  thou  weep?  How  pray  with 
fervency,  when  thus  attired?  Shouldest  thou 
weep,  thy  tears  will  be  the  ridicule  of  the  be- 
holders. She  that  weeps  ought  not  to  be  wear- 
ing gold.  It  were  but  acting,  and  hypocrisy. 
For  is  it  not  acting  to  pour  forth  tears  from  a 
soul  so  overgrown  with  extravagance  and  am- 
bition? Away  with  such  hypocrisy !  God  is 
not  mocked !  This  is  the  attire  of  actors  and 
dancers,  that  live  upon  the  stage.  Nothing 
of  this  sort  becomes  a  modest  woman,  who 
should  be  adorned  "  with  shamefacedness  and 
sobriety." 

Imitate  not  therefore  the  courtesans.  For 
by  such  a  dress  they  allure  their  many  lovers ; 
and  hence  many  have  incurred  a  disgraceful 
suspicion,  and,  instead  of  gaining  any  advantage 
from  their  ornaments,  have  injured  many2  by 
bearing  this  character.  For  as  the  adulteress, 
though  she  may  have  a  character  for  modesty,  de- 
rives no  benefit  from  that  character,  in  the  Day, 
when  He  who  judges  the  secrets  of  men  shall 
make  all  things  manifest ;  so  the  modest  woman, 
if  she  contrive  by  this  dress  to  pass  for  an  adul- 
teress, will  lose  the  advantage  of  her  chastity. 
For  many  have  suffered  harm  by  this  opinion. 
"  What  can  I  do,"  thou  sayest,  "  if  another  sus- 
pects me?"  But  thou  givest  the  occasion  by 
thy  dress,  thy  looks,  thy  gestures.  It  is  for  this 
reason  that  Paul  discourses  much  of  dress  and 
much  of  modesty.  And  if  he  would  remove 
those  things  which  are  only  the  indications  of 
wealth,  as  gold,  and  pearls,  and  costly  arra£  ; 
how  much  more  those  things  which  imply  studied 
ornament,  as  painting,  coloring  the  eyes,  a 
mincing  gait,  the  affected  voice,  a  languishing 
and  wanton  look ;  the  exquisite  care  in  putting 
on  the  cloak  and  bodice,  the  nicely  wrought 
girdle,  and  the  closely-fitted  shoes?  For  he 
glances  at  all  these  things,  in  speaking  of 
"  modest  apparel "  and  "  shamefacedness."  For 
such  things  are  shameless  and  indecent. 

Bear  with  me,  I  beseech  you,  for  it  is  not  my 
aim  by  this  plain  reproof  to  wound  or  pain  you, 
but  to  remove  from  my  flock  all  that  is  unbe- 
coming to  them.  But  if  these  prohibitions  are 
addressed  to  those  who  have  husbands,  who  are 
rich,  and  live  luxuriously ;  much  more  to  those 
who  have  professed  virginity.  But  what  virgin, 
you  say,  wears  gold,  or  broidered  hair?  Yet 
there  may  be  such  a  studied  nicety  in  a  simple 
dress,  as  that  these  are  nothing  to  it.  You  may 
study  appearance  in  a  common  garment  more 
than  those  who  wear  gold.  For  when  a  very 
dark  colored  robe  is  drawn  closely  round  the 
breast  with  the  girdle  (as  dancers  on  the  stage 
are  attired),  with  such  nicety  that  it  may  neither 

— — .   1  -  ■  ■■  ■  ■  1^— ^— ^^m^ 

3  He  means  either  by  jealousy  or  temptation. 


434 


WORKS   OF   ST.    CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  VIII. 


spread  into  breadth  nor  shrink  into  scantiness, 
but  be  between  both ;  and  when  the  bosom  is 
set  off  with  many  folds,  is  not  this  more  alluring 
than  any  silken  robes  ?  and  when  the  shoe,  shin- 
ing through  its  blackness,  ends  in  a  sharp  point, 
and  imitates  the  elegance  of  painting,  so  that 
even  the  breadth  of  the  sole  is  scarce  visible 
—  or  when,  though  you  do  not  indeed  paint  the 
face,  you  spend  much  time  and  pains  on  washing 
it,  and  spread  a  veil  across  the  forehead,1  whiter 
than  the  face  itself — and  above  that  put  on  a 
hood,2  of  which  the  blackness  may  set  off  the 
white  by  contrast  —  is  there  not  in  all  this  the 
vanity  of  dress  ?  What  can  one  say  to  the  per- 
petual rolling  of  the  eyes  ?  to  the  putting  on  of 
the  stomacher,  so  artfully  as  sometimes  to  con- 
ceal, sometimes  to  disclose,  the  fastening?  For 
this  too  they  sometimes  expose,  so  as  to  show 
the  exquisiteness  of  the  cincture,  winding  the 
hood  entirely  round  the  head.  Then  like  the 
players,  they  wear  gloves  so  closely  fitted,  that 
they  seem  to  grow  upon  the  hands :  and  we 
might  speak  of  their  walk,  and  other  artifices 
more  alluring  than  any  ornament  of  gold.  Let 
us  fear,  beloved,  lest  we  also  hear  what  the 
Prophet  said  to  the  Hebrew  women  who  were  so 
studious  of  outward  ornament ;  "  Instead  of  a 
girdle,  thou  shalt  be  girded  with  a  halter,  instead 
of  well-set  hair,  baldness."  (Isa.  iii.  24,  Sept.) 
These  things  and  many  others,  invented  only  to 
be  seen  and  to  attract  beholders,  are  more  allur- 
ing than  golden  ornaments.  These  are  no 
trifling  faults,  but  displeasing  to  God,  and  enough 
to  mar  all  the  self-denial  of  virginity. 

Thou  hast  Christ  for  thy  Bridegroom,  O  virgin, 
why  dost  thou  seek  to  attract  human  lovers  ?  He 
will  judge  thee  as  an  adulteress.  Why  dost  thou 
not  wear  the  ornament  that  is  pleasing  to  Him  ; 
modesty,  chastity,  orderliness,  and  sober  apparel  ? 
This  is  meretricious,  and  disgraceful.  We  can 
no  longer  distinguish  harlots  and  virgins,  to  such 
indecency  have  they  advanced.  A  virgin's  dress 
should  not  be  studied,  but  plain,  and  without 
labor;  but  now  they  have  many  artifices  to 
make  their  dress  conspicuous.  O  woman,  cease 
from  this  folly.  Transfer  this  care  to  thy  soul, 
to  the  inward  adorning.  For  the  outward  orna- 
ment that  invests  thee,  suffers  not  that  within  to 
become  beautiful.  He  that  is  concerned  for 
that  which  is  without,  despises  that  which  is 
within,  even  as  he  that  is  unconcerned  about  the 
exterior,  bestows  all  his  care  upon  the  interior. 
Say  not,  "  Alas  !  I  wear  a  threadbare  garment, 
mean  shoes,  a  worthless  veil ;  what  is  there  of 
ornament  in  these?"  Do  not  deceive  thyself. 
It  is  impossible,  as  I  said,  to  study  appearance 
more  by  these  than  by  costlier  dresses ;  espec- 


1  fieri,  tov  fitrutwov.     The  reading  is  suspected,  but  it  seems  to 
mean,  "  so  as  to  make  one  effect  with  the  forehead." 
3  <>dpo«. 


ially  when  they  are  close-fitted  to  the  body, 
fashioned  to  an  immodest  show,  and  of  shining 
neatness.3  Thou  excusest  thyself  to  me,  but 
what  canst  thou  say  to  God,  who  knows  the 
heart  and  the  spirit  with  which  thou  doest  these 
things  ?  "  It  is  not  done  for  fornication  !  "  Per- 
haps not,  but  for  admiration ;  and  dost  thou  not 
blush  for  shame  to  be  admired  for  such  things  ? 
But  thou  sayest,  "  It  is  but  chance  I  am  so 
dressed,  and  for  no  motive  of  this  kind."  God 
knoweth  what  thou  sayest  to  me :  is  it  to  me 
thou  must  give  account?  Nay,  it  is  to  Him  who 
is  present  at  thy  actions,  and  will  one  day 
inquire  into  them,  to  whom  all  things  are  naked 
and  open.  It  is  on  this  account  that  we  now 
urge  these  things,  that  we  may  not  let  you  be 
amenable  to  those  severe  judgments.  Let  us 
fear,  therefore,  lest  He  reprove  you  in  the  words 
of  the  Prophet  to  the  Jewish  women.  "  They 
come  to  be  seen  of  me  wantoning  and  mincing 
as  they  go,  and  making  a  tinkling  with  their 
feet."    (Isa.  iii.  16.) 

Ye  have  taken  upon  you  a  great  contest,  where 
wrestling,  not  ornament  is  required ;  where  the 
battle  awaits  you,  not  sloth  and  ease.  Observe 
the  combatants  and  wrestlers  in  the  games.  Do 
they  concern  themselves  about  their  walk  or 
their  dress?  No,  but  scorning  all  these,  and 
throwing  about  them  a  garment4  dripping  with 
oil,  they  look  only  to  one  thing,  to  wound,  and 
not  be  wounded.  The  devil  stands  grinding  his 
teeth,  watching  to  destroy  thee  every  way,  and 
thou  remainest  unconcerned,  or  concerned  only 
about  this  satanic  ornament.  I  say  nothing 
about  the  voice,  though  much  affectation  is 
shown  in  this  also,  nor  about  perfumes,  and  other 
such  luxuries.  It  is  for  these  things  we  are  ridi- 
culed by  the  women  of  the  world.  The  respect 
for  virginity  is  lost.  No  one  honors  a  virgin  as 
she  ought  to  be  honored.  They  have  given 
occasion  to  their  own  dishonor.  Ought  not 
they  to  be  looked  up  to  in  the  Church  of  God, 
as  women  coming  from  heaven  ?  but  now  they 
are  despised,  and  deservedly,  though  not  those 
among  them  who  are  discreet.  But  when  one 
who  has  a  husband  and  children,  and  presides 
over  a  household,  sees  thee,  who  ought  to  be 
crucified  to  the  world,  more  devoted  to  the 
world  than  herself,  will  she  not  ridicule  and 
despise  thee  ?  See  what  care  !  what  pains  !  In 
thy  humble  dress,  thou  exceedest  her  who  wears 
the  costliest  ornament,  and  art  more  studious 
of  appearance  than  she  who  is  arrayed  in  gold. 
What  is  becoming  to  thee  thou  seekest  not; 
that  which  misbecomes  thee  thou  pursuest,  when 
thou  oughtest  to  be  occupied  in  good  works. 
On  this  account  virgins  are  less  honored  than 
women  of  the  world.     For  they  do  not  perform 

9  So  B.  (doubtful  reading). 
4  See  on  Stat.  Horn.  i.  16. 


Homily  IX.] 


HOMILIES   ON   TIMOTHY. 


435" 


works  worthy  of  their  virgin  profession.  This 
is  not  said  to  all ;  or  rather  it  is  said  to  all ;  to 
those  who  are  in  fault,  that  they  may  learn 
modesty;  to  those  who  are  free  from  blame, 
that  they  may  teach  modesty  to  others.  But 
beware  lest  this  rebuke  be  verified  in  deed. 
For  we  have  not  said  these  things  that  we  may 


grieve,  but  that  we  may  correct  you,  that  we 
may  glory  in  you.  And  may  we  all  do  those 
things  which  are  acceptable  to  God,  and  live 
to  His  glory,  that  we  may  obtain  the  blessings 
promised  by  the  grace  and  lovingkindness  of 
our  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  with  whom,  &c. 


HOMILY    IX. 

i  Timothy  ii.  11-15. 


"  Let  the  women  learn  in  silence  with  all  subjection.  But 
I  suffer  not  a  woman  to  teach,  nor  to  usurp  authority 
over  the  man,  but  to  be  in  silence.  For  Adam  was 
first  formed,  then  Eve.  And  Adam  was  not  deceived, 
but  the  woman  being  deceived  was  in  the  transgres- 
sion. Notwithstanding  she  shall  be  saved  in  [through 
the]  child-bearing,  if  they  continue  in  faith  and 
charity  and  holiness  with  sobriety." 

Great  modesty  and  great  propriety  does  the 
blessed  Paul  require  of  women,  and  that  not 
only  with  respect  to  their  dress  and  appearance  : 
he  proceeds  even  to  regulate  their  speech.  And 
what  says  he  ?  "  Let  the  woman  learn  in 
silence  "  ;  that  is,  let  her  not  speak  at  all  in  the 
church ;  which  rule  he  has  also  given  in  his 
Epistle  to  the  Corinthians,  where  he  says,  "  It  is 
a  shame  for  women  to  speak  in  the  church  " 
(1  Cor.  xiv.  35)  ;  and  the  reason  is,  that  the 
law  has  made  them  subject  to  men.  And  again 
elsewhere,  "  And  if  they  will  learn  anything,  let 
them  ask  their  husbands  at  home."  (Ibid.) 
Then  indeed  the  women,  from  such  teaching, 
kept  silence ;  but  now  there  is  apt  to  be  great 
noise  among  them,  much  clamor  and  talking, 
and  nowhere  so  much  as  in  this  place.  They 
may  all  be  seen  here  talking  more  than  in  the 
market,  or  at  the  bath.  For,  as  if  they  came 
hither  for  recreation,  they  are  all  engaged  in 
conversing  upon  unprofitable  subjects.  Thus  all 
is  confusion,  and  they  seem  not  to  understand, 
that  unless  they  are  quiet,  they  cannot  learn 
anything  that  is  useful.  For  when  our  discourse 
strains  against  the  talking,  and  no  one  minds 
what  is  said,  what  good  can  it  do  to  them  ?  To 
such  a  degree  should  women  be  silent,  that  they 
are  not  allowed  to  speak  not  only  about  worldly 
matters,  but  not  even  about  spiritual  things,  in 
the  church.  This  is  order,  this  is  modesty,  this 
will  adorn  her  more  than  any  garments.  Thus 
clothed,  she  will  be  able  to  offer  her  prayers  in 
the  manner  most  becoming. 

"  But  I  suffer  not  a  woman  to  teach."  "  I  .do 
not  suffer,"  he  says.  What  place  has  this  com- 
mand here  ?    The  fittest.     He  was  speaking  of 


quietness,  of  propriety,  of  modesty,  so  having 
said  that  he  wished  tnem  not  to  speak  in  the 
church,  to  cut  off  all  occasion  of  conversation, 
he  says,  let  them  not  teach,  but  occupy  the 
station  of  learners.  For  thus  they  will  show 
submission  by  their  silence.  '  For  the  sex  is 
naturally  somewhat  talkative :  and  for  this  rea- 
son he  restrains  them  on  all  sides.  "  For  Adam," 
says  he,  "was  first  formed,  then  Eve.  And 
Adam  was  not  deceived,  but  the  woman  being 
deceived  was  in  the  transgression." 

If  it  be  asked,  what  has  this  to  do  with  women 
of  the  present  day  ?  it  shows  that  the  male  sex 
enjoyed  the  higher  honor.  Man  was  first  formed  ; 
and  elsewhere  he  shows  their  superiority. 
"  Neither  was  the  man  created  for  the  woman, 
but  the  woman  for  the  man."  (1  Cor.  xi.  9.) 
Why  then  does  he  say  this?  He  wishes  the 
man  to  have  the  preeminence  in  every  way; 
both  for  the  reason  given  above,  he  means,  let 
him  have  precedence,  and  on  account  of  what 
occurred  afterwards.  For  the  woman  taught  the 
man  once,  and  made  him  guilty  of  disobedience, 
and  wrought  our  ruin.  Therefore  because  she 
made  a  bad  use  of  her  power  over  the  man,  or 
rather  her  equality  with  him,  God  made  her  sub- 
ject to  her  husband.  "Thy  desire  shall  be  to 
thy  husband."  (Gen.  iii.  16.)  This  had  not 
been  said  to  her  before. 

But  how  was  Adam  not  deceived  ?  If  he  was 
not  deceived,  he  did  not  then  transgress?  At- 
tend carefully.  The  woman  said,  "  The  serpent 
beguiled  me."  But  the  man  did  not  say,  The 
woman  deceived  me,  but,  "  she  gave  me  of  the 
tree,  and  I  did  eat."  Now  it  is  not  the  same 
thing  to  be  deceived  by  a  fellow-creature,  one 
of  the  same  kind,  as  by  an  inferior  and  subordi- 
nate animal.  This  is  truly  to  be  deceived.  Com- 
pared therefore  with  the  woman,  he  is  spoken 
of  as  "not  deceived."  For  she  was  beguiled 
by  an  inferior  and  subject,  he  by  an  equal. 
Again,  it  is  not  said  of  the  man,  that  he  "  saw 
the  tree  was  good  for  food,"  but  of  the  woman, 
and  that  she  "  did  eat,  and  gave  it  to  her  hus- 


436 


WORKS   OF   ST.    CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  IX. 


band  "  :  so  that  he  transgressed,  not  captivated 
by  appetite,  but  merely  from  the  persuasion  of 
his  wife.  The  woman  taught  once,  and  ruined 
all.  On  this  account  therefore  he  saith,  let  her 
not  teach.  But  what  is  it  to  other  women,  that 
she  suffered  this  ?  It  certainly  concerns  them ; 
for  the  sex  is  weak  and  fickle,  and  he  is  speak- 
ing of  the  sex  collectively.  For  he  says  not 
Eve,  but  "  the  woman,"  which  is  the  common 
name  of  the  whole  sex,  not  her  proper  name. 
Was  then  the  whole  sex  included  in  the  trans- 
gression for  her  fault?  As  he  said  of  Adam, 
"After  the  similitude  of  Adam's  transgression, 
who  is  the  figure  of  Him  that  was  to  come " 
(Rom.  v.  14)  ;  so  here  the  female  sex  trans- 
gressed, and  not  the  male.  Shall  not  women 
then  be  saved?  Yes,  by  means  of  children. 
For  it  is  not  of  Eve  that  he  says,  "  If  they  con- 
tinue in  faith  and  charity  and  holiness  with  so- 
briety." What  faith?  what  charity?  what  holi- 
ness with  sobriety?  It  is  as  if  he  had  said, 
"  Ye  women,  be  not  cast  down,  because  your 
sex  has  incurred  blame.  God  has  granted  you 
another  opportunity  of  salvation,  by  the  bringing 
up  of  children,  so  that  you  are  saved,  not  only 
by  yourselves,  but  by  others."  See  how  many 
questions  are  involved  in  this  matter.  "The 
woman,"  he  says,  "  being  deceived  was  in  the 
transgression."  What  woman?  Eve.  Shall  she 
then  be  saved  by  child-bearing  ?  He  does  not 
say  that,  but,  the  race  of  women  shall  be  saved. 
Was  not  it  then  involved  in  transgression  ?  Yes, 
it  was,  still  Eve  transgressed,  but  the  whole  sex 
shall  be  saved,  notwithstanding,  "  by  childbear- 
ing."  And  why  not  by  their  own  personal  vir- 
tue? For  has  she  excluded  others  from  this 
salvation  ?  And  what  will  be  the  case  with  vir- 
gins, with  the  barren,  with  widows  who  have 
lost  their  husbands,  before  they  had  children? 
will  they  perish  ?  is  there  no  hope  for  them  ? 
yet  virgins  are  held  in  the  highest  estimation. 
What  then  does  he  mean  to  say  ? 

Some  interpret  his  meaning  thus.  As  what 
happened  to  the  first  woman  occasioned  the 
subjection  of  the  whole  sex,  (for  since  Eve  was 
formed  second  and  made  subject,  he  says,  let 
the  rest  of  the  sex  be  in  subjection,)  so  because 
she  transgressed,  the  rest  of  the  sex  are  also  in 
transgression.  But  this  is  not  fair  reasoning; 
for  at  the  creation  all  was  the  gift  of  God,  but 
in  this  case,  it  is  the  consequence  of  the  woman's 
sin.  But  this  is  the  amount  of  what  he  says. 
As  all  men  died  through  one,  because  that  one 
sinned,  so  the  whole  female  race  transgressed, 
because  the  woman  was  in  the  transgression. 
Let  her  not  however  grieve.  God  hath  given 
her  no  small  consolation,  that  of  childbearing. 
And  if  it  be  said  that  this  is  of  nature,  so  is  that l 

1  The  vcnse  is  obscure,  but  he  seems  to  mean. "  the  ordinary  way 
of  salvation,"  and  by  "  consolation,"  a  way  of  obtaining  relief  from 


also  of  nature ;  for  not  only  that  which  is  of 
nature  has  been  granted,  but  also  the  bringing 
up  of  children.  "  If  they  continue  in  faith  and 
charity  and  holiness  with  sobriety  "  ;  that  is,  if 
after  childbearing,  they  keep  them2  in  charity 
and  purity.  By  these  means  they  will  have  no 
small  reward  on  their  account,  because  they 
have  trained  up  wrestlers  for  the  service  of 
Christ.  By  holiness  he  means  good  life,  mod- 
esty, and  sobriety. 

Chap.  iii.  ver.  1.  "This  is  a  faithful  saying." 
This  relates  to  the  present  subject,  not  to 
what  follows,  respecting  the  office  of  a  Bishop. 
For  as  it  was  doubted,  he  affirms  it  to  be  a  true 
saying,  that  fathers  may  be  benefited  by  the 
virtue  of  their  children,  and  mothers  also,  when 
they  have  brought  them  up  well.  But  what  if 
she  be  herself  addicted  to  wickedness  and  vice? 
Will  she  then  be  benefited  by  the  bringing  up  of 
children  ?  Is  it  not  probable  that  she  will  bring 
them  up  to  be  like  herself?  It  is  not  therefore 
of  any  woman,  but  of  the  virtuous  woman,  that 
it  is  said  she  shall  receive  a  great  recompense 
for  this  also. 

Moral.  Hear  this,  ye  fathers  and  mothers, 
that  your  bringing  up  of  children  shall  not  lose 
its  reward.  This  also  he  says,  as  he  proceeds, 
"  Well  reported  of  for  good  works  ;  if  she  have 
brought  up  children."  (1  Tim.  v.  10.)  Among 
other  commendations  he  reckons  this  one,  for  it 
is  no  light  praise  to  devote  to  God  those  chil- 
dren which  are  given  them  of  God.  For  if  the 
basis,  the  foundation  which  they  lay  be  good, 
great  will  be  their  reward ;  as  great,  if  they  neg- 
lect it,  will  be  their  punishment.  It  was  on  ac- 
count of  his  children  that  Eli  perished.  For  he 
ought  to  have  admonished  them,  and  indeed  he 
did  admonish  them,  but  not  as  he  ought ;  bat 
from  his  unwillingness  to  give  them  pain  he  de- 
stroyed both  himself  and  them.  Hear  this,  ye 
fathers,  bring  your  children  up  with  great  care  "in 
the  nurture  and  admonition  of  the  Lord."  (Eph. 
vi.  4.)  Youth  is  wild,  and  requires  many 
governors,  teachers,  directors,  attendants,  and 
tutors ;  and  after  all  these,  it  is  a  happiness  if 
it  be  restrained.  For  as  a  horse  not  broken  in. 
or  a  wild  beast  untamed,  such  is  youth.  But  if 
from  the  beginning,  from  the  earliest  age,  we  fu 
it  in  good  rules,  much  pains  will  not  be  required 
afterwards ;  for  good  habits  formed  will  be  to 
them  as  a  law.  Let  us  not  suffer  them  to  do 
anything  which  is  agreeable,  but  injurious ;  nor 
let  us  indulge  them,  as  forsooth  but  children. 
Especially  let  us  train  them  in  chastity,  for  there 
is  the  very  bane  of  youth.  For  this  many  strug; 
gles,  much  attention  will  be  necessary.  Let  as 
take  wives  for  them  early,  so  that  their  brides 


the  consequences  of  sin.     See  on  Stat.  Horn.  ii.  19,  and 
elsewhere. 

*  i.e.  their  children.    Colb.  cavrovc,  which  cannot  he 


iOMILY   X.] 


HOMILIES   ON   TIMOTHY. 


437 


nay  receive  their  bodies  pure  and  unpolluted, 
►o  their  loves  will  be  more  ardent  He  that  is 
;haste  before  marriage,  much  more  will  he  be 
rhaste  after  it;  and  he  that  practiced  fornica- 
ion  before,  will  practice  it  after  marriage.  "  All 
>read,"  it  is  said,  "  is  sweet  to  the  fornicator." 
Ecclus.  xxiii.  17.)  Garlands  are  wont  to  be 
vorn  on  the  heads  of  bridegrooms,  as  a  symbol 
)f  victory,  betokening  that  they  approach  the 
narriage  bed  unconquered  by  pleasure.  But  if 
raptivated  by  pleasure  he  has  given  himself  up 
o  harlots,  why  does  he  wear  the  garland,  since 
le  has  been  subdued  ? 

Let  us  admonish  them  of  these  things.  Let 
is  employ  sometimes  advice,  sometimes  warn- 
ngs,  sometimes  threatening.  In  children  we 
lave  a  great  charge  committed  to  us.  Let  us 
>estow  great  care  upon  them,  and  do  every- 
hing  that  the  Evil  One  may  not  rob  us  of  them, 
hit  now  our  practice  is  the  very  reverse  of  this. 
Ve  take  all  care  indeed  to  have  our  farm  in 
ood  order,  and  to  commit  it  to  a  faithful  man- 
ger, we  look  out  for  it  an  ass-driver,  and  mule- 
»er,  and  bailiff,  and  a  clever  accomptant.  But 
re  do  not  look  out  for  what  is  much  more  im- 
ortant,  for  a  person  to  whom  we  may  commit 
ur  son  as  the  guardian  of  his  morals,  though 
lis  is  a  possession  much  more  valuable  than  all 
thers.  It  is  for  him  indeed  that  we  take  such 
are  of  our  estate.  We  take  care  of  our  posses- 
ions for  our  children,  but  of  the  children  them- 
elves  we  take  no  care  at  all.  What  an  absurdity 
5  this  !  Form  the  soul  of  thy  son  aright,  and 
11  the  rest  will  be  added  hereafter.  If  that  is 
lot  good,  he  will  derive  no  advantage  from  his 
wealth,  and  if  it  is  formed  to  goodness  he  will 
uffer  no  harm  from  poverty.  Wouldest  thou 
eave  him  rich  ?  teach  him  to  be  good :  for  so 
le  will  be  able  to  acquire  wealth,  or  if  not,  he  will 
lot  fare  worse  than  they  who  possess  it.     But 


if  he  be  wicked,  though  you  leave  him  bound- 
less wealth,  you  leave  him  no  one  to  take  care 
of  it,  and  you  render  him  worse  than  those  who 
are  reduced  to  extreme  poverty.  For  poverty 
is  better  than  riches  for  those  children  who  are 
not  well-disposed.  For  it  retains  them  in  some 
degree  of  virtue  even  against  their  will.  Whereas 
money  does  not  suffer  those  who  would  be  sober 
to  continue  so,  it  leads  them  away,  ruins  them, 
and  plunges  them  into  infinite  dangers. 

Mothers,  be  specially  careful  to  regulate  your 
daughters  well ;  for  the  management  of  them  is 
easy.  Be  watchful  over  them,  that  they  may  be 
keepers  at  home.  Above  all,  instruct  them  to 
be  pious,  modest,  despisers  of  wealth,  indifferent 
to  ornament.  In  this  way  dispose  of  them  in 
marriage.  For  if  you  form  them  in  this  way, 
you  will  save  not  only  them,  but  the  husband 
who  is  destined  to  marry  them,  and  not  the 
husband  only,  but  the  children,  not  the  children 
only,  but  the  grandchildren.  For  the  root  being 
made  good,  good  branches  will  shoot  forth,  and 
still  become  better,  and  for  all  these  you  will 
receive  a  reward.  Let  us  do  all  things  there- 
fore, as  benefiting  not  only  one  soul,  but  many 
through  that  one.  For  they  ought  to  go  from 
their  father's  house  to  marriage,  as  combatants 
from  the  school  of  exercise,  furnished  with  all 
necessary  knowledge,  and  to  be  as  leaven  able 
to  transform  the  whole  lump  to  its  own  virtue. 
And  let  your  sons  be  so  modest,  as  to  be  dis- 
tinguished for  their  steadiness  and  sobriety,  that 
they  may  receive  great  praise  both  from  God 
and  men.  Let  them  learn  to  govern  their  ap- 
petites, to  avoid  extravagance,  to  be  good  econ- 
omists, affectionate,  and  submissive  to  rule.  For 
so  they  will  be  able  to  secure  a  good  reward  to 
their  parents,  so  all  things  will  be  done  to  the 
glory  of  God,  and  to  our  salvation,  through 
Christ  Jesus  our  Lord,  with  whom,  &c. 


HOMILY   X. 


1  Timothy  iii.  1-4. 


1  If  a  man  desire  the  office  of  a  Bishop,  he  desireth  a 
good  work.  A  Bishop  then  must  be  blameless,  the 
husband  of  one  wife,  vigilant,  sober,  of  good  behav- 
ior, given  to  hospitality,  apt  to  teach ;  not  given  to 
wine,  no  striker,  not  greedy  of  filthy  lucre;  but 
patient,  not  a  brawler,  not  covetous;  one  that 
ruleth  well  his  own  house,  having  his  children  in 
subjection  with  all  gravity." 

As  now  proceeding  to  discourse  of  the  Epis- 
:opal  office,  he  sets  out  with  showing  what  sort 


of  a  person  a  Bishop  ought  to  be.  And  here  he 
does  not  do  it  as  in  the  course  of  his  exhorta- 
tion to  Timothy,  but  addresses  all,  and  instructs 
others  through  him.  And  what  says  he  ?  "  If  a 
man  desire  the  office  of  a  Bishop,"  I  do  not 
blame  him,  for  it  is  a  work  of  protection.  If 
any  one  has  this  desire,  so  that  he  does  not 
covet  the  dominion  and  authority,  but  wishes  to 
protect  the  Church,  I  blame  him  not.  "  For  he 
desireth  a  good  work."     Even  Moses  desired 


43« 


WORKS   OF   ST.  CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  X. 


the  office,  though  not  the  power,  and  his  desire 
exposed  him  to  that  taunt,  "Who  made  thee  a 
ruler  and  a  judge  over  us?"  (Acts  vii.  27; 
Ex.  ii.  14.)  If  any  one,  then,  desire  it  in  this 
way,  let  him  desire  it.  For  the  Episcopate  is  so 
called  from  having  the  oversight  of  all. 

"A  Bishop  then,"  he  says,  "must be  blameless, 
the  husband  of  one  wife."  This  he  does  not  lay 
down  as  a  rule,  as  if  he  must  not  be  without  one, 
but  as  prohibiting  his  having  more  than  one.1 
For  even  the  Jews  were  allowed  to  contract 
second  marriages,  and  even  to  have  two  wives 
at  one  time.  For  "marriage  is  honorable." 
(Heb.  xiii.  4.)  Some  however  say,  that  this  is 
said  that  he  should  be  the  husband  of  one  wife.2 
"  Blameless."  Every  virtue  is  implied  in  this 
word  ;  so  that  if  any  one  be  conscious  to  him- 
self of  any  sins,  he  doth  not  well  to  desire  an 
office  for  which  his  own  actions  have  disqualified 
him.  For  such  an  one  ought  to  be  ruled,  and 
not  to  rule  others.  For  he  who  bears  rule 
should  be  brighter  than  any  luminary ;  his  life 
should  be  unspotted,  so  that  all  should  look  up 
to  him,  and  make  his  life  the  model  of  their 
own.  But  in  employing  this  exhortation,  he 
had  no  common  object  in  view.  For  he  too3 
was  about  to  appoint  Bishops,  (which  also  he 
exhorts  Titus  to  do  in  his  Epistle  to  him,)  and 
as  it  was  probable  that  many  would  desire  that 
office,  therefore  he  urges  these  admonitions. 
"  Vigilant,"  he  says,  that  is,  circumspect,  having 
a  thousand  eyes  about  him,  quicksighted,  not 
having  the  eyes  of  his  mind  dimmed.  For 
many  things  occur  which  permit  not  a  man  to 
see  clearly,  to  see  things  as  they  are.  For  care 
and  troubles,  and  a  load  of  business  on  all  sides, 
press  upon  him.  He  must  therefore  be  vigilant, 
not  only  over  his  own  concerns,  but  over  those 
of  others.  He  must  be  well  awake,  he  must  be 
fervent  in  spirit,  and,  as  it  were,  breathe  fire ; 
he  must  labor  and  attend  upon  his  duty  by  day 
and  by  night,  even  more  than  a  general  upon 
his  army ;  he  must  be  careful  and  concerned 
for  all.  "  Sober,  of  good  behavior,  given  to 
hospitality."  Because  these  qualities  are  pos- 
sessed by  most  of  those  who  are  under  their 
rule,  (for  in  these  respects  they  ought  to  be 
equal  to  those  who  rule  over  them,)  he,  to  show 
what  is  peculiar  to  the  Bishops,  adds,  "  apt  to 
tench."  For  this  is  not  required  of  him  that  is 
ruled,  but  is  most  essential  to  him  who  has  this 
rule  committed  to  him.4 


1  antrpiav. 

1  This  is  literal  from  the  Greek,  but  the  sense  is  difficult  to  make 
out  from  the  seeming  tautology,  unless  he  means  that  some  supposed 
marriage  enjoined.  The  Greek  will  bear,  "  and  some  say,'  Let  him 
be  the  husband  of  one  wife,'  was  said  with  a  view  to  this."  See  be- 
low. ( Ecumenius  says  that  some  take  it  of  one.  See  Comp.  Ezek. 
xliv.  22. 

•**  i.e.  Timothy. 

4  n-apoiror.  A  word  often,  used  as  he  here  explains  it:  and 
irapouirt  is  used  even  for  contumely  apart  from  insolence.  Theodo- 
re t,  Eccl.  Hist.  v.  17. 


« 


Not  given  to  wine  " :  here  he  does  not  so 
much  mean  intemperate,  as  insolent  and  impu- 
dent.    "  No  striker  " :  this  too  does  not  mean 
a  striker  with  the  hands.    What  means  then  "  no 
striker"?     Because  there  are  some  who  unsea- 
sonably smite  the  consciences  of  their  brethren, 
it   seems   to   be  said  with  reference  to  them. 
"  Not  greedy  of  filthy  lucre,  but  patient :  not  a 
brawler,  not  covetous ;  one  that  ruleth  well  his 
own   house,  having  his  children  in  subjection 
with  all  gravity."     If  then  "  he  who  is  married 
cares  for  the  things  of  the  world"  (1  Cor.  vii. 
33),  and  a  Bishop  ought  not  to  care  for  the 
things  of  the  world,  why  does  he  say  the  husband 
of  one  wife?    Some  indeed  think  that  he  says 
this  with  reference  to  one  who  remains  free* 
from  a  wife.     But  if  otherwise,  he  that  hath  a 
wife  may  be*  as  though  he  had  none.     (1  Cor. 
vii.  29.)      For  that  liberty  was  then  properly 
granted,  as  suited  to  the  nature  of  the  circum-  . 
stances  then  existing.     And  it  is  very  possible, 
if  a  man  will,  so  to  regulate  his  conduct.    For 
as  riches  make  it  difficult  to  enter  into  the  king- 
dom of  Heaven,  yet  rich  men  have  often  entered 
in,  so  it  is  with  marriage.    But  why  does  he  say, 
speaking  of  a  Bishop,  that  he  should  be  "  not 
given  to  wine,  hospitable,"  when  he  should  name 
greater  things  ?    Why  said  he  not  that  he  should 
be  an  Angel,  not  subject  to  human  passions? 
Where  are  those  great  qualities  of  which  Christ 
speaks,  which  even  those  under  their  rule  ought 
to  possess  ?    To  be  crucified  to  the  world,  to  be 
always  ready  to  lay  down  their  lives,  as  Christ 
said.     "  The  good  Shepherd  giveth  his  life  for 
the  sheep  "  (John  x.  11);  and  again,  "  He  that 
taketh  not  his  cross  and  followeth  after  me,  is 
not  worthy  of  me."     (Matt.  x.  38.)     But  "not 
given  to  wine,"  he  says ;  a  good  prospect  in- 
deed, if  such  are  the  things  of  which  a  Bishop 
is  to  be  admonished  !     Why  has  he  not  said 
that  he  ought  to  be  already  raised  above  the 
world  ?      But   dost   thou   demand   less  of  the 
Bishop,  than  even  of  those  in  the  world?    For 
to  these  he  saith,  "  Mortify  your  members  which 
are  upon  the  earth"     (Col.  iii.  5),  and  "He 
that  is  dead,  is  freed  from  sin."     (Rom.  vi.  ;•) 
"They  that  are  Christ's  have  crucified  the  flesh" ; 
and  Christ  again   says,  "Whosoever  forsaketh 
not  all  that  he  hath,  he  is  not  worthy  of  Me." 
(Luke  xv.  33.)     Why  are  not  these  things  re- 
quired by  Paul  ?     Plainly  because  few  could  be 
found  of  such  a  character,  arid  there  was  need 
of  many  Bishops,  that  one  might   preside  in 
every  city. 

But  because  the  Churches  were  to  be  exposed 
to  attacks,6  he  requires  not  that  superior  and 


3  He  seems  to  mean  without  a  second  marriage.  See  z  Cor.  vii. 
27.  An  old  Latin  translation  has  this  expressly.  The  reading  is 
not  quite  certain. 

8  i.e.  and  therefore  to  want  many  guardians. 


Homily  X.] 


HOMILIES  ON  TIMOTHY. 


439 


highly  exalted  virtue,  but  a  moderate  degree  of 
it ;  for  to  be  sober,  of  good  behavior,  and  tem- 
perate, were  qualities  common  to  many.  "  Hav- 
ing his  children  in  subjection  with  all  gravity." 
This  is  necessary,  that  an  example  might  be 
exhibited  in  his  own  house.  For  who  would 
believe  that  he  who  had  not  his  own  son  in  sub- 
jection, would  keep  a  stranger  under  command? 
"  One  that  ruleth  well  his  own  house."  Even 
those  who  are  without  say  this,  that  he  who  is 
a  good  manager  of  a  house  will  be  a  good  states- 
man. For  the  Church  is,  as  it  were,  a  small ! 
household,  and  as  in  a  house  there  are  children 
and  wife  and  domestics,  and  the  man  has  rule 
over  them  all ;  just  so  in  the  Church  there  are 
women,  children,  servants.  And  if  he  that  pre- 
sides in  the  Church  has  partners  in  his  power, 
so  hath  the  man  a  partner,  that  is,  his  wife. 
Ought  the  Church  to  provide  for  her  widows 
and  virgins?  so  there  are  in  a  family  servants, 
and  daughters,  to  be  provided  for.  And,  in 
fact,  it  is  easier  to  rule  the  house ;  therefore  he 
asks,  "  if  a  man  know  not  how  to  rule  his  own 
house,  how  shall  he  take  care  of  the  Church  of 
God  ?  " 

Ver.  6.  "  Not  a  novice." 2  He  does  not  say, 
not  a  young  man,  but  not  a  new  convert.  For 
he  had  said,  "  I  have  planted,  Apollos  watered, 
but  God  gave  the  increase."  (i  Cor.  iii.  6.) 
Wishing  them  to  point  out  such  an  one,  he  used 
this  word.  For,  otherwise,  what  hindered  him 
from  saying,  "Not  a  young  man"?  For  if 
youth  only  was  an  objection,  why  did  he  him- 
self appoint  Timothy,  a  young  man?  (and  this 
he  proves  by  saying  to  him,  "  Let  no  man 
despise  thy  youth.")  (i  Tim.  iv.  12.)  Be- 
cause3 he  was  aware  of  his  great  virtue,  and 
his  great  strictness  of  life.  Knowing  which  he 
writes,  "  From  a  child  thou  hast  learned  the 
holy  Scriptures."  (2  Tim.  iii.  15.)  And  that  he 
practiced  intense  fasting  is  proved  by  the  words, 
"  Use  a  little  wine  for  thine  often  infirmities  "  ; 
which*  he  wrote  to  him  amongst  other  things, 
as,  if  he  had  not  known  of  such  good  works 
of  his,  he  would  not  have  written,  nor  given  any 
such  charge  to  his  disciple.  But  as  there  were 
many  then  who  came  over  from  the  Heathen, 
and  were  baptized,  he  says,  "  Do  not  immedi- 
ately advance  to  a  station  of  dignity  a  novice, 
that  is,  one  of  these  new  converts."  For,  if  be- 
fore he  had  well  been  a  disciple,  he  should  at 
once  be  made  a  Teacher,  he  would  be  lifted  up 
into  insolence.  If  before  he  had  learnt  to  be 
under  rule,  he  should  be  appointed  one  of  the 
rulers,  he  would  be  puffed  up :  therefore  he 
adds,  "  Lest  being  lifted  up  with  pride,  he  fall 


1  Doun.  conj.  "great." 
s  vio4>vrov,  one  newly  "  planted." 

*  Theae  words,  down  to  "  disciple."  are  not  in  Sav.;  they  are 
supplied  from  a  Colb.  MS.  in  the  last  Paris  ed. 


into  the  condemnation  of  the  devil,"  that  is,  into 
the  same  condemnation  which  Satan  incurred 
by  his  pride. 

Ver.  7.  "  Moreover  he  must  have  a  good  re- 
port of  them  which  are  without ;  lest  he  fall  into 
reproach  and  the  snare  of  the  devil." 

This  is  rightly  said,  as  he  was  certain  to  be 
reproached  by  them,  and  for  the  same  reason 
perhaps  he  said,  "  the  husband  of  one  wife," 
though  elsewhere  he  says,  "  I  would  that  all 
men  were  even  as  I  myself!"  (1  Cor.  vii.  7), 
that  is,  .practicing  continency.  That  he  may  not 
therefore  confine  them  within  too  narrow  a  limit, 
by  requiring  an  over-strict  conversation,  he  is 
satisfied  to  prescribe  moderate  virtue.  For  it 
was  necessary  to  appoint  one  to  preside  in  every 
city,  as  he  writes  to  Titus,  "  That  thou  shouldest 
ordain  elders  in  every  city,  as  I  had  appointed 
thee."  (Tit.  i.  5.)  But  what  if  he  should 
have  a  good  report,  and  fair  reputation,  and  not 
be  worthy  of  it?  In  the  first  place  this  would 
not  easily  happen.  It  is  much  for  good  men 
to  obtain  a  good  report  among  their  enemies. 
But,  in  fact,  he  has  not  left  this  to  stand  by 
itself;  a  good  report  "also,"  he  says,  that  is, 
besides  other  qualities.  What  then,  if  they 
should  speak  evil  of  him  without  a  cause  from 
envy,  especially  as  they  were  Heathens?  This 
was  not  to  be  expected.  For  even  they  will 
reverence  a  man  of  blameless  life.  Why  then 
does  he  say,  speaking  of  himself,  "  Through  evil 
report  and  good  report"?  (2  Cor.  vi.  6.)  Be- 
cause it  was  not  his  life  that  they  assailed,  but 
his  preaching.  Therefore  he  says,  "  through 
evil  report."  They  were  slandered  as  deceivers 
and  impostors,  on  account  of  their  preaching, 
and  this  because  they  could  not  attack  their 
moral  characters  and  lives.  For  why  did  no 
one  say  of  the  Apostles,  that  they  were  fornica- 
tors, unclean,  or  covetous  persons,  but  that  they 
were  deceivers,  which  relates  to  their  preaching 
only  ?  Mus.t  it  not  be  that  their  lives  were  irre- 
proachable?    It  is  manitest. 

Therefore  so  let  us  too  live,  and  no  enemy, 
no  unbeliever,  will  be  able  to  speak  evil  of  us. 
For  he  whose  life  is  virtuous,  is  revered  even  by 
them.  For  truth  stops  the  mouths  even  of 
enemies. 

But  how  does  he  "  fall  into  a  snare  "  ?  By 
falling  often  into  the  same  sins,  as  those  who  are 
without.  For  if  he  be  such  a  character,  the  evil 
one  soon  lays  another  snare  for  him,  and  they 
soon  effect  his  destruction.  But  if  he  should 
have  a  good  report  from  his  enemies,  much 
more  will  he  have  it  from  his  friends.  For  that 
it  is  not  likely  that  he,  whose  life  is  blameless, 
should  be  ill-reported  of,  we  may  infer  from  the 
words  of  Christ ;  "  Let  your  light  so  shine  before 
men,  that  they  may  see  your  good  works,  and 
glorify  your  Father  which  is  in  Heaven."    (Matt. 


440 


WORKS   OF   ST.    CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  X. 


v.  1 6.)  But  what  if  one  be  falsely  accused,  and 
from  peculiar  circumstances  be  slandered  ?  Well, 
this  is  a  possible  case;  but  even  such  an  one 
ought  not  to  be  promoted.  For  the  result  is 
much  to  be  feared.  Therefore  it  is  said  he 
should  have  "a  good  report,"  for  your  good 
works  are  to  shine.  As  therefore  no  one  will 
say  that  the  sun  is  dark,  not  even  the  blind,  (for 
he  will  be  ashamed  to  oppose  the  opinion  of 
all,)  so  him  that  is  of  remarkable  goodness  no 
one  will  blame.  And  though,  on  account  of  his 
doctrines,  the  Heathen  will  often  slander  him, 
yet  they  will  not  attack  his  virtuous  life,  but  will 
join  with  others  in  admiring  and  revering  it. 

Moral.  Let  us  then  so  live,  that  the  name 
of  God  be  not  blasphemed.  Let  us  not,  on  the 
one  hand,  look  to  human  reputation;  nor  on 
the  other,  subject  ourselves  to  an  evil  report, 
but  on  both  sides  let  us  observe  moderation ;  as 
he  saith,  "Among  whom  ye  shine  as  lights  in 
the  world."  (Phil.  ii.  15.)  For  on  this  account 
He  left  us  here,  that  we  may  be  as  luminaries, 
that  we  may  be  appointed  Teachers  of  others, 
that  we  may  be  as  leaven  ;  that  we  may  converse 
as  angels  among  men,  as  men  with  children,  as 
spiritual  with  natural  men,  that  they  may  profit 
by  us,  that  we  may  be  as  seed,  and  may  bring 
forth  much  fruit.  There  were  no  need  of  words, 
if  we  so  shone  forth  in  our  lives,  there  were  no 
need  of  Teachers,  did  we  but  exhibit  works. 
There  would  be  no  Heathen,  if  we  were  such 
Christians  as  we  ought  to  be.  If  we  kept  the 
commandments  of  Christ,  if  we  suffered  injury, 
if  we  allowed  advantage  to  be  taken  of  us,  if 
being  reviled  we  blessed,  if  being  ill-treated  we 
did  good  (1  Cor.  iv.  12)  ;  if  this  were  the  gen- 
eral practice  among  us,  no  one  would  be  so 
brutal  as  not  to  become  a  convert  to  godliness. 
And  to  show  this ;  Paul  was  but  one  man,  yet 
how  many  did  he  draw  after  him  ?  If  we  were 
all  such  as  he,  how  many  worlds  might  we  not 
have  drawn  to  us  ?  Behold,  Christians  are  more 
numerous  than  Heathens.  And  in  other  arts, 
one  man  can  teach  a  hundred  boys  together; 
but  here,  where  there  are  many  more  teachers, 
and  many  more  than  the  learners,  no  one  is 
brought  over.  For  those  who  are  taught,  look 
to  the  virtue  of  their  teachers :  and  when  they 
see  us  manifesting  the  same  desires,  pursuing 
the  same  objects,  power  and  honor,  how  can 
they  admire  Christianity?  They  see  our  lives 
open  to  reproach,  our  souls  worldly.  We  admire 
wealth  equally  with  them,  and  even  more.  We 
have  the  same  horror  of  death,  the  same  dread 
of  poverty,  the  same  impatience  of  disease,  we 
are  equally  fond  of  glory  and  of  rule.  We  harass 
ourselves  to  death  from  our  love  of  money,  and 
serve  the  time.  How  then  can  they  believe? 
From  miracles?  But  these  are  no  longer 
wrought.     From  our  conversation?     It  has  be- 


come corrupt.  From  charity?  Not  a  trace  of 
it  is  anywhere  to  be  seen.  Therefore  we  shall 
have  to  give  an  account  not  only  of  our  own 
sins,  but  of  the  injury  done  by  them  to  others. 

Let  us  then  return  to  a  sound  mind ;  let  us 
watch,  and  show  forth  a  heavenly  conversation 
upon  earth.  Let  us  say,  "  Our  conversation  is 
in  heaven"  (Phil.  iii.  20),  and  let  us  upon  earth 
maintain  the  contest.  There  have  been  great 
men,  it  may  be  said,  amongst  us,  but  "  how," 
says  the  Greek,  "  shall  I  believe  it  ?  for  I  do  not 
see  anything  like  it  in  your  conduct.  If  this  is 
to  be  said,  we  too  have  had  our  philosophers, 
men  admirable  for  their  lives."  "  But  show  me 
another  Paul,  or  a  John  :  you  cannot."  Would 
he  not  then  laugh  at  us  for  reasoning  in  this 
manner?  Would  he  not  continue  to  sit  still  in 
ignorance,  seeing  that  the  wisdom  we  profess  is 
in  words,  not  in  works?  For  now  for  a  single 
halfpenny  ye  are  ready  to  slay  or  be  slain  !  For 
a  handful  of  earth  thou  raisest  lawsuit  after  law- 
suit !  For  the  death  of  a  child  thou  turnest  all 
upside  down  !  I  omit  other  things  that  might 
make  us  weep  ;  your  auguries,  your  omens,  your 
superstitious  observances,  your  casting  of  nativi- 
ties, your  signs,  your  amulets,  your  divinations, 
your  incantations,  your  magic  arts.  These  are 
crying  sins,  enough  to  provoke  the  anger  of 
God ;  that  after  He  has  sent  His  own  Son,  you 
should  venture  on  such  things  as  these. 

What  then  can  we  do  but  weep  ?  For  hardly 
is  a  small  portion  of  the  world  in  the  way  of 
salvation,  and  they  who  are  perishing  hear  it, 
and  rejoice  that  they  are  not  destined  to  suffer 
alone,  but  in  company  with  numbers.  But  what 
cause  is  this  for  joy?  That  very  joy  will  subject 
them  to  punishment.  For  do  not  think  that  it 
is  there  as  here,  that  to  have  companions  in 
suffering  affords  consolation.  And  whence  is 
this  manifest  ?  I  will  make  it  clear.  Suppose  that 
a  man  were  commanded  to  be  burnt,  and  that 
he  saw  his  own  son  burning  with  him,  and 
that  the  smell  of  his  scorched  flesh  rose  "to  his 
nostrils  ;  would  it  not  be  of  itself  death  to  him  ? 
No  doubt.  And  I  will  tell  you  how  it  is.  If 
those  who  are  not  suffering,  yet  seeing  those  things 
are  benumbed  and  faint  with  terror,  much  more 
will  they  be  so  affected,  who  are  themselves 
sufferers.  Wonder  not  at  this.  Hear  a  certain 
wise  one  saying,  "Art  thou  become  weak  as  we? 
art  thou  become  like  unto  us?"  (Isa.  xiv.  10.) 
For  human  nature  is  disposed  to  sympathy,  and  the 
affections  of  others  move  us  to  pity.  Will  then 
a  father  seeing  his  son  in  the  same  condemna- 
tion, or  a  husband  his  wife,  or  a  man  his  fellow- 
man,  receive  consolation,  and  not  rather  an 
aggravation  of  his  sufferings?  Are  not  we  in 
such  case  the  more  overcome  ?  But  there,  you 
say,  there  are  no  such  feelings.  I  know  there  are 
not ;  but  there  are  others  much  more  wretched. 


Homily  XL] 


HOMILIES   ON   TIMOTHY. 


441 


For  there  will  be  wailing  inconsolable,  all  wit- 
nessing each  other's  torments.  Do  they  who 
are  famishing  derive  comfort  in  their  distress 
from  the  participation  of  others?  It  is  no  con- 
solation surely  to  see  a  son,  a  father,  a  wife,  or 
grandchildren,  suffering  the  same  punishment. 
If  one  sees  friends  in  such  a  case,  is  it  any  com- 
fort ?  None  !  None  !  It  rather  adds  to  the 
intensity  of  our  own  sufferings  !  Besides,  there 
are  evils,  which  by  reason  of  their  severity  can- 
not be  mitigated  by  being  common.  If  two  men 
were  together  thrown  into  the  fire,  would  they 
comfort  one  another  ?    Tell  me ;  if  we  have  ever 


been  attacked  by  a  violent  fever,  have  we  not 
found  that  all  consolation  has  failed  us  ?  for  there 
are  calamities,  so  overwhelming  as  to  leave  no 
room  for  comfort  in  the  soul.  When  a  wife  has 
lost  her  husband,  is  it  a  lessening  of  her  grief  to 
number  up  the  many  who  have  suffered  the  like 
loss  ?  Let  us  not  therefore  be  supported  by  any 
such  hope,  rather  let  us  find  our  sole  consolation 
in  repenting  of  our  sins,  in  pursuing  the  good 
path  that  leads  to  Heaven,  that  we  may  obtain 
the  kingdom  of  Heaven,  by  the  grace  and 
lovingkindness  of  Jesus  Christ  our  Lord,  with 
whom,  &c. 


HOMILY    XL 


1  Timothy  iii.  8-10. 


M 


Likewise  must  the  Deacons  be  grave,  not  doubletongued, 
not  given  much  to  wine,  not  greedy  of  filthy  lucre; 
holding  the  mystery  of  the  faith  in  a  pure  conscience. 
And  let  these  also  first  be  proved:  then  let  them 
use  the  office  of  a  Deacon,  being  found  blameless." 


Discoursing  of  Bishops,  and  having  described 
their  character,  and  the  qualities  which  they 
ought  to  possess,  and  having  passed  over  the 
order  of  Presbyters,  he  proceeds  to  that  of 
Deacons.  The  reason  of  this  omission  was,  that 
between  Presbyters  and  Bishops  there  was  no 
great  difference.  Both  had  undertaken  the  office 
of  Teachers  and  Presidents  in  the  Church,  and 
what  he  has  said  concerning  Bishops  is  applica- 
ble to  Presbyters.  For  they  are  only  superior 
in  having  the  power  of  ordination,  and  seem 
to  have  no  other  advantage  over  Presbyters. 

"  Likewise  the  Deacons."  That  is,  they  should 
have  the  same  qualities  as  Bishops.  And  what 
are  these  same  ?  To  be  blameless,  sober,  hospi- 
table, patient,  not  brawlers,  not  covetous.  And 
that  he  means  this  when  he  says  "  likewise,"  is 
evident  from  what  he  says  in  addition,  "  grave, 
not  doubletongued " ;  that  is,  not  hollow  or 
deceitful.  For  nothing  so  debases  a  man  as 
deceit,  nothing  is  so  pernicious  in  the  Church 
as  insincerity.  "  Not  given  to  much  wine,  not 
greedy  of  filthy  lucre ;  holding  the  mystery  of 
the  faith  in  a  pure  conscience."  Thus  he  ex- 
plains what  he  means  by  "blameless."  And 
her,e  he  requires,  though  in  other  words,  that  he 
be  "  not  a  novice,"  where  he  says,  "  Let  these 
also  first  be  proved,"  where  the  conjunction 
"  also  "  is  added,  as  connecting  this  with  what 
had  been  said  before  of  Bishops,  for  nothing 
intervenes  between.  And  there  is  the  same 
reason1  for  the  "not  a  novice"  in  that  case. 

1  He  had  not  noticed  this  reason  on  the  passage,  probably  be- 
cause he  considered  that  St.  Paul  purposely  deferred  it  to  this  place. 


For  would  it  not  be  absurd,  that  when  a  newly 
purchased  slave  is  not  entrusted  with  anything 
in  a  house,  till  he  has  by  long  trial  given  proofs 
of  his  character,  yet  that  one  should  enter  into 
the  Church  of  God  from  a  state  of  heathenism, 
and  be  at  once  placed  in  a  station  of  preemi- 
nence ? 

Ver.  11."  Even  so  must  the  women8  be  grave, 
not  slanderers,  sober,  faithful  in  all  things." 

Some  have  thought  that  this  is  said  of  women 
generally,  but  it  is  not  so,  for  why  should  he 
introduce  anything  about  women  to  interfere 
with  his  subject?  He  is  speaking  of  those  who 
hold  the  rank  of  Deaconesses. 

Ver.  12.  "Let  the  Deacons  be  husbands  of 
one  wife." 

This8  must  be  understood  therefore  to  relate 
to  Deaconesses.  For  that  order  is  necessary 
and  useful  and  honorable  in  the  Church.  Ob- 
serve how  he  requires  the  same  virtue  from  the 
Deacons,  as  from  the  Bishops,  for  though  they 
were  not  of  equal  rank,  they  must  equally  be 
blameless ;  equally  pure. 

"  Ruling  their  children  and  their  own  houses 
well." 

Ver.  13.  "  For  they  that  have  used  the  office 
of  a  Deacon  well  purchase  to  themselves  a  good 
degree,  and  much  boldness  in  the  faith  which 
is  in  Christ  Jesus." 

Everywhere  they  are  required  to  rule  their 
children  well,  that  others  may  not  be  scandal- 
ized by  their  misconduct. 

"  They  that  use  the  office  of  a  Deacon  well, 
purchase  to  themselves  a  good  degree,"  that  is, 
advancement,  "  and  much  boldness  in  the  faith 
of  Jesus  Christ "  ;  as  if  he  would  say,  that  those 

*  E.  V.:  "Their  wives."  The  other  is  literal.  [R.  V.: 
'*  Women."] 

3  i.e.  the  verse  before. 


442 


WORKS   OF   ST.    CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  XI. 


who   have   been    found  vigilant    in  the   lower 
degree l  will  soon  ascend  to  the  higher. 

Ver.  14,  15.  "These  things  write  I  unto  thee, 
hoping  to  come  unto  thee  shortly.  But  if  I 
tarry  long,  that  thou  mayest  know  how  thou 
oughtest  to  behave  thyself  in  the  house  of  God, 
which  is  the  Church  of  the  living  God,  the  pillar 
and" ground  of  the  truth." 

That  he  may  not  plunge  Timothy  into  dejec- 
tion by  giving  him  orders  about  such  matters, 
he  says,  I  write  thus  not  as  though  I  were  not 
coming,  but  I  will  indeed  come,  still  in  case  I 
should  be  delayed,  that  thou  mayest  not  be  dis- 
tressed. And  this  he  writes  to  him  to  prevent 
his  being  dejected,  but  to  others  in  order  to 
rouse  them  to  greater  earnestness.  For  his 
presence,  though  only  promised,  would  have 
great  effect.  Nor  let  it  seem  strange  that,  though 
foreseeing  everything  through  the  Spirit,  he  was 
yet  ignorant  of  this,  and  only  says,  I  hope  to 
come,  but  if  I  tarry,  which  implies  uncertainty. 
For  since  he  was  led  by  the  Spirit,  and  did  not 
act  from  his  own  inclination,  he  was  naturally 
uncertain  about  this  matter. 

"That  thou  mayest  know,"  he  says,  "how 
thou  oughtest  to  behave  thyself  in  the  house  of 
God,  which  is  the  Church  of  the  living  God,  the 
pillar  and  ground  of  the  truth."  Not  like  that 
Jewish  house.  For  it  is  this  that  maintains  the 
faith  and  the  preaching  of  the  Word.  For  the 
truth  is  the  pillar  and  the  ground  of  the  Church.2 

Ver.  16.  "And  without  controversy  great  is 
the  mystery  of  godliness  ;  God  [He  who] 3  was 
manifest  in  the  flesh,  justified  in  the  Spirit." 

Here  he  speaks  of.  the  Dispensation  in  our 
behalf.  Tell  me  not  of  the  bells,  nor  of  the 
holy  of  holies,  nor  of  the  high  priest.  The 
Church  is  the  pillar  of  the  world.  Consider  this 
mystery,  and  thou  mayest  be  struck  with  awe : 
for  it  is  indeed  "  a  great  mystery,"  and  "  a  mys- 
tery of  godliness,"  and  that  "  without  contro- 
versy "  or  question,  for  it  is  beyond  all  doubt. 
Since  in  his  directions  to  the  Priests  he  had  re- 
quired nothing  like  what  is  found  in  Leviticus, 
he  refers  the  whole  matter  to  Another,  saying, 
"  God  was  manifest  in  the  flesh."  The  Creator 
was  seen  incarnate.  "  He  was  justified  in  the 
Spirit."  As  it  is  said,  "  Wisdom  is  justified  of 
her  children,"  or  because  He  practiced  no  guile, 
as  the  Prophet  says,  "  Because  he  had  done  no 
violence,  neither  was  guile  found  in  his  mouth." 
(Isa.  liii.  9  ;  1  Pet.  ii.  22.)  "  Seen  of  Angels." 
So  that  Angels  together  with  us  saw  the  Son  of 
God,  not  having  before  seen  Him.  Great,  truly 
great,  was  this  mystery  !     "  Preached  unto  the 


1  Or;  "  in  things  below."  He  may  refer  to  the  Deacon's  tem- 
poral ministry. 

8  i.e.  the  truth  in  itself  supports  the  Church,  the  Church  through 
it  supports  the  world. 

3  [6«  is  better  attested  than  0«fc,  and  has  been  adopted  in  the 
R.  V.— P.  S.J 


Gentiles,  believed  on  in  the  world."  He  was 
heard  of  and  believed  in  through  all  parts  of  the 
world,  as  the  Prophet  foreshowed,  saying,  "  Their 
sound  is  gone  out  into  all  the  world."  (Ps.  xix. 
4.)  Think  not  that  these  things  are  mere  words, 
for  they  are  not,  but  full  of  hidden  realities. 
"  Received  up  into  glory."  He  ascended  upon 
clouds.  "  This  Jesus,"  it  is  said,  "  Who  is  taken 
up  from  you,  shall  so  come  in  like  manner  as  ye 
have  seen  Him  go  into  heaven."     (Acts  i.  11.) 

The  discretion  of  the  blessed  Paul  is  observ- 
able. When  he  would  exhort  the  Deacons  to 
avoid  excess  in  wine,  he  does  not  say,  "  Be  not 
drunken,"  but  "not"  even  "given  to  much 
wine."  A  proper  caution ;  for  if  those  who 
served  in  the  Temple  did  not  taste  wine  at  all, 
much  more  should  not  these.  For  wine  pro- 
duces disorder  of  mind,  and  where  it  does  not 
cause  drunkenness,  it  destroys  the  energies  and 
relaxes  the  firmness  of  the  soul. 

The  dispensation  in  our  behalf  he  calls  a 
"  mystery,"  and  well  may  it  be  so  called,  since 
it  is  not  manifest  to  all,  nay,  it  was  not  manifest 
to  the  Angels,  for  how  could  it,  when  it  was 
"made  known  by  the  Church"?  (Eph.  iii.  10.) 
Therefore  he  says,  "  without  controversy  great  is 
the  mystery."  Great  indeed  was  it.  For  God 
became  Man,  and  Man  became  God.  A  Man 
was  seen  without  sin  !  A  Man  was  received  up, 
was  preached  in  the  world  !  Together  with  us 
the  Angels  saw  Him.  This  is  indeed  a  mystery  1 
Let  us  not  then  expose 4  this  mystery.  Let  us 
not  lay  it  forth  everywhere,  but  let  us  live  in  a 
manner  worthy  of  the  mystery.  They  to  whom 
a  mystery  is  intrusted  are  great  persons.  We 
account  it  a  mark  of  favor,  if  a  king  intrusts  a 
secret  to  us.  But  God  has  committed  His  mys- 
tery to  us,  yet  are  we  ungrateful  to  our  Bene- 
factor, as  if  we  had  not  received  the  greatest 
benefits.  Our  insensibility  to  such  a  kindness 
should  strike  us  with  horror.  And  how  is  that  a 
mystery  which  all  know  ?  In  the  first  place  all 
do  not  know  it,  and  before  then  too  they  knew 
it  not,  but  now  it  is  made  manifest.5 

Moral.  In  keeping  this  mystery,  then,  let  us 
be  faithful  to  our  trust.  So  great  a  mystery  has 
He  intrusted  to  us,  and  we  do  not  trust  Him 
even  with  our  money,  though  He  has  bid  us  lay 
up  our  wealth  with  Him,  where  none  can  take  it 
away,  neither  can  moth  nor  thief  waste  it.  And 
He  promises  to  pay  us  a  hundred-fold,  yet  we 
obey  Him  not.  Yet  here  if  we  intrust  any  with 
a  deposit,  we  receive  nothing  back  in  addition, 
but  are  thankful  if  that  is  restored  which  we  de- 
posited. If  a  thief  steals  it  there,  He  saith,  set 
that  to  My  account-;  I  say  not  to  thee,  a  thief 

4  The  word  e Kiropn-ffutiMO'  seems  to  be  used  in  a  bad  sense,  as  of 
disgracing,  or  irreverently  handling,  the  sacred  doctrine. 

■  So  B.  Sav.  mar.  ana  Old  Lat.  The  printed  text  is,  "  It  is  a 
mystery  which  all  know,  yea,  rather,  which  all  knew  not  before, 
but  which  is  now  made  manifest  to  all." 


Homily  XL] 


HOMILIES  ON  TIMOTHY. 


443 


has  taken  it,  or  moth  devoured  it.  He  repays  a 
hundred-fold  here,  and  eternal  life  is  superadded 
hereafter,  yet  do  we  not  lay  up  our  treasure 
there  !  "  But,"  you  say,  "  He  repays  slowly." 
Well  this  too  is  a  proof  of  the  greatness  of  His 
gift,  that  He  does  not  repay  here  in  this  mortal 
life  ;  or  rather  He  does  repay  even  here  a  hun- 
dred-fold. For  did  not  Paul  leave  here  his 
tools,1  Peter  his  rod  and  hook,  and  Matthew  his 
seat  of  custom?  and  was  not  the  whole  world 
opened  to  them  more  than  to  kings  ?  Were  not 
all  things  laid  at  their  feet?  Were  they  not  ap- 
pointed rulers,8  and  lords  ?  Did  not  men  com- 
mit their  lives  into  their  hands?  suspend  them- 
selves wholly  upon  their  counsel,  and  enlist  in 
their  service  ?  And  do  we  not  see  many  similar 
occurrences  even  now?  Many  men  of  poor 
and  humble  means,  who  did  but  handle  the 
spade,  and  had  hardly  a  sufficiency  of  necessary 
food,  having  but  the  character  of  monks,  have 
been  celebrated  above  all  men,  and  honored  of 
kings. 

Are  these  things  inconsiderable?  Well,  con- 
sider that  these  are  but  additions,  the  principal 
sum  is  stored  up  for  the  life  to  come.  Despise 
riches,  if  thou  wouldest  have  riches.  If  thou 
wouldest  be  truly  rich,  become  poor.  For  such 
are  the  paradoxes  of  God.  He  would  not  have 
thee  rich  from  thy  own  care,  but  from  His  grace. 
Leave  these  things  to  Me,  He  says ;  make 
spiritual  things  thy  concern,  that  thou  mayest 
know  My  power.  Flee  from  that  yoke  of  slav- 
ery, which  riches  impose.  As  long  as  thou 
cleavest  to  them,  thou  art  poor.  When  thou 
despisest  them,  thou  art  doubly  rich,  in  that 
such  things  shall  flow  in  upon  thee  from  every 
side,  and  in  that  thou  shaJt  want  none  of  those 
things,  which  the  multitude  want.  For  not  to 
possess  much,  but  to  need  little,  is  to  be  rich  in- 
deed. The  king,  so  long  as  he  wants  aught, 
differs  not  from  the  poor  man.  For  this  is  pov- 
erty, to  stand  in  need  of  others;  and  by  this 
argument  the  king  is  poor,  in  so  far  as  he  stands 
in  need  of  his  subjects.  But  he  that  is  crucified 
to  the  world  is  not  so ;  he  wants  for  nothing ; 
for  his  hands  are  sufficient  for  his  subsistence,  as 
Paul  said,  "  These  hands  have  ministered  to  my 
necessities,  and  to  them  that  were  with  me." 
(Acts  xx.  34.)  These  are  his  words  who  says, 
"  As  having  nothing,  yet  possessing  all  things." 
(2  Cor.  vi.  20.)  This  is  he  who  was  thought  a 
God  by  the  inhabitants  of  Lystra.  If  thou 
wouldest  obtain  worldly  things,  seek  Heaven ; 
if  you  wouldest  enjoy  things  here,  despise  them. 
For,  "  Seek  ye  first  the  kingdom  of  God,"  He 
saith,  "  and  all  these  things  shall  be  added  unto 
you."     (Matt.  vi.  33.) 

Why  dost  thou  admire  these  trifles  ?    Why 


1  afiiXrjv. 


*  6tOMrijraf. 


long  for  things  of  no  real  worth  ?  How  long  is 
one  poor?*  how  long  a  beggar?  Raise  thine 
eyes  to  heaven,  think  of  the  riches  there,  and 
smile  at  gold  ;  think  of  how  little  use  it  is ;  that 
the  enjoyment  of  it  lasts  but  for  the  present  life, 
and  that  compared  with  eternity,  the  present  life 
is  as  a  grain  of  sand,  or  as  a  drop  of  water  to 
the  boundless  ocean.  This  wealth  is  not  a  pos- 
session, it  is  not  property,  it  is  a  loan  for  use. 
For  when  thou  diest,  willingly  or  unwillingly,  all  ' 
that  thou  hast  goes  to  others,  and  they  again  give 
it  up  to  others,  and  they  again  to  others.  For 
we  are  all  sojourners ;  and  the  tenant  of  the  house 
is  more  truly  perchance  the  owner  of  it,  for  the 
owner  dies,  and  the  tenant  lives,  and  still  enjoys 
the  house.-  And  if  the  latter  hires  it,  the  other 
might  be  said  to  hire  it  too  :  for  he  built  it,  and 
was  at  pains  with  it,  and  fitted  it  up.  Property, 
in  fact,  is  but  a  word  :  we  are  all  owners  in  fact 
but  of  other  men's  possessions.  Those  things 
only  are  our  own,  which  we  have  sent  before  us  to 
the  other  world.  Our  goods  here  are  not  our 
own ;  we  have  only  a  life  interest  in  them  ;  or 
rather  they  fail  us  during  our  lives.  Only  the  vir- 
tues of  the  soul  are  properly  our  own,  as  alms- 
giving and  charity.  Worldly  goods,  even  by  those 
without,  were  called  external  things,  because  they 
are  without  us.  But  let  us  make  them  internal. 
For  we  cannot  take  our  wealth  with  us,  when  we 
depart  hence,  but  we  can  take  our  charities. 
But  let  us  rather  send  them  before  us,  that  they 
may  prepare  for  us  an  abode  in  the  eternal  man- 
sions. (Luke  xvi.  9.) 

Goods 4  are  named  from  use,5  not  from  lord- 
ship, and  are  not  our  own,  and  possessions  are 
not  a  property  but  a  loan.  For  how  many^ 
masters  has  every  estate  had,  and  how  many 
will  it  have  !  There  is  a  sensible  proverb,  (and 
popular  proverbs,  when  they  contain  any  wis- 
dom, are  not  to  be  despised,)  "O  field,  how 
many  men's  hast  thou  been,  and  how  many 
men's  wilt  thou  be?"  This  we  should  say  to 
our  houses  and  all  our  goods.  Virtue  alone  is 
able  to  depart  with  us,  and  to  accompany  us  to 
the  world  above.  Let  us  then  give  up  and  ex- 
tinguish that  love  of  wealth,  that  we  may  kindle 
in  us  an  affection  for  heavenly  things.  These? 
two  affections  cannot  possess  one  soul.  For  it 
is  said,  "  Either  he  will  hate  the  one,  and  love 
the  other ;  or  else  he  will  hold  to  the  one,  and 
despise  the  other."  (Matt.  vi.  24.)  Seest  thou  a 
man  with  a  long  train  of  attendants,  clearing  a 
way6  along  the  streets,  clothed  in  silken  gar- 
ments, riding  aloft,  and  stiffening  his  neck  ?  Be 
not  overawed,  but  smile.  As  we  laugh  when  we 
see  children  playing  at  kings,  so  laugh  at  hii 
state,  for  it  is  no  better  than  theirs,  nor  indeed 
so  pleasant,  for  there  is  not  the  same  innocence 

8  See  on  Phil.  i.  19,  Horn.  ii. 

4  XPWaTa-  *  **XA^<r^< 


'at. 


•  <ro£ovmu 


444 


WORKS   OF   ST.   CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  XII. 


and  simplicity  as  with  children.  With  them  it 
is  laughter  and  pleasure,  here  is  a  man  made 
ridiculous  and  contemptible. 

Glorify  God,  Who  has  kept  thee  free  from  this 
theatrical  ostentation.  For,  if  thou  wilt,  humble 
as  thy  station  is,  thou  mayest  be  higher  than  he 
who  is  exalted  in  his  chariot.  And  why?  be- 
cause, though  his  body  is  a  little  raised  from 
the  earth,  his  soul  is  fixed  upon  it,  for  "My 
strength,"  he  saith,  "  cleaveth  to  my  flesh " 
(Ps.  cii.  6),  but  thou  in  thy  spirit  walkest  in 
heaven.  What  though  he  has  many  attendants 
clearing  his  way?  is  he  more  honored  by  this 
than  his  horse  ?  and  what  an  absurdity  is  it,  to 
drive  men  before  one  to  clear  the  way  for  a 
beast  to  pass  !  Then  what  sort  of  honor  is  it  to 
bestride  a  horse  ?  an  honor  shared  by  his  slaves  !  ■! 
Yet  some  are  so  vain  of  this,  that  they  have  it 
led  after  them  even  though  they  do  not  want  it. 
What  greater  folly  can  there  be  ?  To  wish  to  be 
distinguished  by  their  horses,  by  the  costliness 
of  their  garments,  by  their  retinue !  What 
can  be  more  contemptible  than  glory  which 
consists  in  horses,  and  servants?   Art  thou  vir- 


tuous? use  not  such  distinctions.  Have  orna- 
ments in  thyself.  Be  not  indebted  for  thy  glory 
to  the  presence  of  others.  To  such  honor  the 
most  wicked,  corrupt,  and  base  of  men  may 
attain;  all  indeed  who  are  rich.  Actors  and 
dancers  may  ride  on  horseback  with  a  servant 
running  before  them,  yet  are  they  but  actors 
and  dancers  still.  Their  horses  and  attendants 
procure  them  no  respect.  For  when  the  graces 
of  the  soul  are  wanting  to  such  persons,  the  ad- 
dition of  these  external  things  is  superfluous  and 
vain.  And  as  when  a  wall  is  weak,  or  a  body  dis- 
ordered, whatever  you  put  upon  it,  it  still  re- 
mains unsound  and  decayed ;  so  in  this  case ; 
the  soul  continues  the  same,  and  receives  no 
advantage  from  things  without,  not  though  the 
man  wear  a  thousand  ornaments  of  gold.  Let 
us  not  therefore  be  anxious  for  such  things. 
Let  us  withdraw  ourselves  from  temporal  things, 
and  pursue  greater,  even  spiritual  distinctions, 
which  will  render  us  truly  objects  of  veneration, 
that  we  also  may  obtain  the  blessings  of  futurity, 
through  the  grace  and  lovingkindness  of  our 
Lord  Jesus  Christ,  with  whom,  &c. 


HOMILY    XII. 

i  Timothy  iv.  1-3. 


"Now  the  Spirit  speaketh  expressly,  that  in  the  latter 
times  some  shall  depart  from  the  faith,  giving  heed 
to  seducing  spirits,  and  doctrines  of  demons;  speak- 
ing lies  in  hypocrisy;  having  their  conscience  seared 
with  a  hot  iron;  forbidding  to  marry,  and  com- 
manding to  abstain  from  meats,  which  God  hath 
created  to  be  received  with  thanksgiving  of  them 
which  believe  and  know  the  truth." 


As  those  who  adhere  to  the  faith  are  fixed  on 
a  safe  anchor,  so  those  who  fall  from  the  faith 
can  nowhere  rest ;  but  after  many  wanderings 
to  and  fro,  they  are  borne  at  last  into  the  very 
gulf  of  perdition.  And  this  he  had  shown  be- 
fore, saying,  that  some  had  "  already  made  ship- 
wreck concerning  the  faith,"  and  now  he  says, 
"  Now  the  Spirit  speaketh  expressly,  that  in  the 
latter  times  some  shall  depart  from  the  faith, 
giving  heed  to  seducing  spirits."  This  is  said 
of  the  Manichaeans,  the  Encratites,1  and  the 
Marcionites,  and  the  whole  of  their  tribe,2  that 

1  St.  Chrys.  often  speaks  of  the  Manichees  and  Marcionites,  but 
rarely  of  the  Encratites.  They  are  mentioned  more  than  once  by 
Clem.  Al.,  who  says  (Strom.  7)  that  they  are  named  from  "  Tem- 
perance" (iyKpartia).  Origen  (cont.  Cel.  v.  6^,  p.  628)  says  they 
did  not  acknowledge  St.  Paul's  Epistles.  Eusebius,  iv.  28,  29,  that 
Tatian  was  the  author  of  this  heresy,  and  so  Epiphanius,  who  treats 
of  its  several  points  at  length.    Her.  26  (Monti.). 

*  Literally,  "  shop." 


they  should  hereafter  depart  from  the  faith. 
Seest  thou  that  this  departure  from  the  faith  is 
the  cause  of  all  the  evils  that  follow  ! 

But  what  is  "expressly"?  Plainly,  clearly, 
and  beyond  doubt.  Marvel  not,  he  says,  if 
some  having  departed  from  the  faith  still  ad- 
here to  Judaism.  There  will  be  a  time,  when 
even  those  who  have  partaken  of  the  faith  will 
fall  into  a  worse  error,  not  only  with  respect  to 
meats,  but  to  marriages,  and  other  such  things, 
introducing  the  most  pernicious  notions.  This 
refers  not  to  the  Jews,  (for  "  the  latter  times," 
and  a  "  departure  from  the  faith,"  is  not  appli- 
cable to  them  ;)  but  to  the  Manichees,  and  the 
founders  of  these  sects.  And  he  calls  them  very 
justly,  "  seducing  spirits,"  since  it  was  by  these 
they  were  actuated  in  speaking  such  things. 
"Speaking  lies  in  hypocrisy."  This  implies 
that  they  utter  not  these  falsehoods  through 
ignorance  and  unknowingly,  but  as  acting  a 
part,  knowing  the  truth,  but  "  having  their  con- 
science seared,"  that  is,  being  men  of  evil  lives. 

But  why  does  he  speak  only  of  these  heretics  ? 
Christ  had  before  said,  "Offenses  must  need 
come"  (Matt,  xviii.  7),  and  he  had  predicted 
the  same  in  his  parable  of  the  sower,  and  of  the 


Homily  XII.] 


HOMILIES  ON  TIMOTHY. 


445 


springing  up  of  the  tares.  But  here  admire  with 
me  the  prophetic  gift  of  Paul,  who,  before  the 
times  in  which  they  were  to  appear,  specifies 
the  time  itself.  As  if  he  had  said,  Do  not  won- 
der, if,  at  the  commencement  of  the  faith,  some 
endeavor  to  bring  in  these  pernicious  doctrines ; 
since,  after  it  has  been  established  for  a  length 
of  time,  many  shall  depart  from  the  faith.  "  For- 
bidding to  marry,  and  commanding  to  abstain 
from  meats."  Why  then  has  he  mentioned  no 
other  heresies  ?  Though  not  particularized,  they 
are  implied  by  the  expressions  of  "seducing 
spirits  and  doctrines  of  demons."  But  he  did 
not  wish  to  instill  these  things  into  the  minds 
of  men  before  the  time ;  but  that  which  had 
already  commenced,  the  case  of  meats,  he  speci- 
fies. "  Which  God  hath  created  to  be  received 
with  thanksgiving  of  them  which  believe  and 
know  the  truth."  Why  did  he  not  say,  by  the 
unbelievers  too  ?  How  by  the  unbelievers,  when 
they  exclude  themselves  from  them  by  their  own 
rules?  But  is  not  luxury  forbidden?  Certainly 
it  is.  But  why?  if  good  things  are  created  to 
be  received.  Because  He  created  bread,  and 
yet  too  much  is  forbidden ;  and  wine  also,  and 
yet  excess  is  forbidden ;  and  we  are  not  com- 
manded to  avoid  dainties  as  if  they  were  unclean 
in  themselves,  but  as  they  corrupt  the  soul  by 
excess. 

Ver.  4.  "  For  every  creature  of  God  is  good, 
and  nothing  to  be  refused,  if  it  be  received  with 
thanksgiving." 

If  it  be  the  creature  of  God,  it  is  good.  For 
"  all  things,"  it  is  said,  "  were  very  good."  (Gen. 
i.  31.)  By  speaking  thus  of  things  eatable,  he 
by  anticipation  impugns  the  heresy  of  those  who 
introduce  an  uncreated  matter,  and  assert  that 
these  things  proceed  from  it.  But  if  it  is  good, 
why  is  it  "  sanctified  by  the  word  of  God  and 
prayers  "  ?  For  it  must  be  unclean,  if  it  is  to 
be  sanctified?  Not  so,  here  he  is  speaking  to 
those  who  thought  that  some  of  these  things 
were  common ;  therefore  he  lays  down  two  posi- 
tions :  first,  that  no  creature  of  God  is  unclean  : 
secondly,  that  if  it  were  become  so,  you  have  a 
remedy,  seal  it,1  give  thanks,  and  glorify  God, 
and  all  the  uncleanness  passes  away.  Can  we 
then  so  cleanse  that  which  is  offered  to  an  idol  ? 
If  you  know  not  that  it  was  so  offered.  But  if, 
knowing  this,  you  partake  of  it,  you  will  be 
unclean ;  not  because  it  was  offered  to  an  idol, 
but  because  contrary  to  an  express  command, 
you  thereby  communicate  with  devils.  So  that 
it  is  not  unclean  by  nature,  but  becomes  so 
through  your  wilful  disobedience.  What  then, 
is  not  swine's  flesh  unclean?  By  no  means, 
when  it  is  received  with  thanksgiving,  and  with 
the  seal ;  nor  is  anything  else.  It  is  your  un- 
thankful disposition  to  God  that  is  unclean. 


1  i.e.  with  the  sign  of  the  cross,  o^pdytcror. 


Ver.  6.  "If  thou  put  the  brethren  in  remem- 
brance of  these  things,  thou  shalt  be  a  good 
minister  of  Jesus  Christ,  nourished  up  in  the 
words  of  faith  and  of  good  doctrine,  whereunto 
thou  hast  attained." 

What  are  the  things  here  meant  ?  The  same 
which  he  had  before  mentioned,  that  "  great  is 
the  mystery  "  ;  that  to  abstain  from  meats  is  the 
doctrine  of  devils,  that  they  are  "  cleansed  by 
the  word  of  God  and  prayer." 

Ver.  7.  "  But  refuse  profane  and  old  wives' 
fables,  and  exercise  thyself  rather  unto  god- 
liness." 

"  Putting  them  in  remembrance,"  he  says ; 
here  you  observe  no  authority ;  but  all  is  con- 
descension :  he  does  not  say  "  commanding  "  or 
"  enjoining,"  but  reminding  them  :  that  is,  sug- 
gest these  things  as  matter  of  advice,  and  so 
enter  into  discourses  with  them  concerning  the 
faith,  "  being  nourished  up,"  he  says,  meaning 
to  imply  constancy  in  application  to  these  things. 

For  as  we  set  before  us  day  by  day  this  bodily 
nourishment,  so  he  means,  let  us  be  continually 
receiving  discourses  concerning  the  faith,  and 
ever  be  nourished  with  them.  What  is  this, 
"  being  nourished  up  "  ?  Ruminating  upon  them ; 
attending  ever  to  the  same  things,  and  prac- 
ticing ever  the  same,  for  it  is  no  common  nour- 
ishment that  they  supply. 

"But  refuse  profane  and  old  wives'  fables." 
By  these  are  meant  Jewish  traditions,  and  he 
calls  them  "fables,"  either  because  of  their 
falsehood  or  their  unseasonableness.  For  what 
is  seasonable  is  useful,  but  what  is  unseasonable 
is  not  only  useless  but  injurious.  Suppose  a 
man  of  adult  age  to  be  suckled  by  a  nurse, 
would  he  not  be  ridiculous,  because  it  is  un- 
seasonable? "Profane  and  old  wives'  fables," 
he  calls  them,  partly  because  of  their  obsolete- 
ness, and  partly  because  they  are  impediments 
to  faith.  For  to  bring  souls  under  fear,  that  are 
raised  above  these  things,  is  an  impious  com- 
mandment. "  Exercise  thyself  unto  godliness." 
That  is,  unto  a  pure  faith  and  a  moral  life ;  for 
this  is  godliness.     So  then  we  need  "  exercise." 

Ver.  8.   "  For  bodily  exercise2  profiteth  little." 

This  has  by  some  been  referred  to  fasting; 
but  away  with  such  a  notion  !  for  that  is  not  a 
bodily  but  a  spiritual  exercise.  If  it  were  bodily 
it  would  nourish  the  body,  whereas  it  wastes 
and  makes  it  lean,  so  that  it  is  not  bodily. 
Hence  he  is  not  speaking  of  the  discipline 8  of 
the  body.  What  we  need,  therefore,  is  the 
exercise 4  of  the  soul.  For  the  exercise  of  the 
body  hath  no  profit,  but  may  benefit  the  body 
a  little,  but  the  exercise 5  of  godliness  yields  fruit 
and  advantage  both  here  and  hereafter. 


'  yu fiyaxr ta.  *  aottiprcwf.  *  yvpivavi*. 

6  a<nri)<rtf ,  the  proper  word  for  spiritual  exercise.  St.  Paul  uses 
the  other,  because  bodily  exercise  for  bodily  purposes  was  familiar 
to  all  Greeks. 


446 


WORKS   OF   ST.    CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  XII. 


"  This  is  a  faithful  saying,"  that  is,  it  is  true 
that  godliness  is  profitable  both  here  and  here- 
after. Observe  how  everywhere  he  brings  in 
this,  he  needs  no  demonstration,  but  simply 
declares  it,  for  he  was  addressing  Timothy. 

So  then  even  here,  we  have  good  hopes? 
For  he  who  is  conscious  to  himself  of  no  evil, 
and  who  has  been  fruitful  in  good,  rejoices  even 
here :  as  the  wicked  man  on  the  other  hand  is 
punished  here  as  well  as  hereafter.  He  lives  in 
perpetual  fear,  he  can  look  no  one  in  the  face 
with  confidence,  he  is  pale,  trembling,  and  full 
of  anxiety.  Is  it  not  so  with  the  fraudulent,  and 
with  thieves,  who  have  no  satisfaction  even  in 
what  they  possess  ?  Is  not  the  life  of  murderers 
and  adulterers  most  wretched,  who  look  upon 
the  sun  itself  with  suspicion?  Is  this  to  be 
called  life  ?     No  ;  rather  a  horrid  death  ! 

Ver.  10.  "  For  therefore  we  both  labor  and 
suffer  reproach,  because  we  trust  in  the  living 
God,  who  is  the  Saviour  of  all  men,  specially  of 
them  that  believe.' ' 

This  in  effect  is  to  say,  wherefore  do  we  mor- 
tify ourselves,  unless  we  expect  future  blessings  ? 
Have  we  endured  so  many  evils,  submitted  to 
so  many  reproaches,  suffered  such  insults  and 
calumnies,  and  such  numerous  calamities  in 
vain  ?  For  if  we  did  not  trust  in  the  living  God, 
on  what  account  did  we  submit  to  these  things? 
But  if  God  is  here  the  Saviour  l  of  the  unbeliev- 
ing, much  more  is  He  of  the  faithful  hereafter. 
What  salvation  does  he  speak  of?  That  to 
come?2  "Who  is  the  Saviour,"  he  says,  "of  all 
men,  specially  of  them  that  believe."  At  pres- 
ent he  is  speaking  of  that  which  is  here.  But 
how  is  He  the  Saviour  of  the  faithful?  Had  he 
not  been  so,  they  must  long  since  have  been 
destroyed,  for  all  men  have  made  war  upon 
them.  He  calls  him  here  to  endure  perils,  that 
having  God  for  his  Saviour  he  may  not  faint, 
nor  need  any  aid  from  others,  but  willingly  and 
with  fortitude  endure  all  things.  Even  those 
who  eagerly  grasp  at  worldly  advantages,  sup- 
ported by  the  hope  of  gain,  cheerfully  undertake 
laborious  enterprises. 

It  is  then  the  last  time.  For  "  in  the  latter 
times,"  he  says,  "some  shall  depart  from  the 
faith."  "  Forbidding  to  marry."  And  do  not  we 
forbid  to  marry  ?  God  forbid.  We  do  not  for- 
bid those  who  wish  to  many,  but  those  who  do 
not  wish  to  many,  we  exhort  to  virginity.  It  is 
one  thing  to  forbid,  and  another  to  leave  one  to 
his  own  free  choice.  He  that  forbids,  does  it 
once  for  all,  but  he  who  recommends  virginity 
as  a  higher  state,  does  not  forbid  marriage, 
because  he  prefers  virginity. 


1  Or  Preserver. 

*  The  Editor  ventures  to  mark  this  as  a  question,  though  not  so 
printed,  or  m>  taken  in  the  old  Translation.  B.  once  had  cv,  which 
givek  this  sense  with  or  without  a  question. 


"  Forbidding  to  marry,"  he  says,  "  and  com- 
manding to  abstain  from  meats,  which  God  hath 
created  to  be  received  with  thanksgiving  of  them 
which  believe  and  know  the  truth."  It  is  well 
said,  "  who  know  the  truth."  The  former  things 
then  were  a  type.  For  nothing  is  unclean  by 
nature,  but  it  becomes  so  through  the  conscience 
of  him  that  partakes  of  it.  And  what  was  the 
object  of  the  prohibition  of  so  many  meats  ?  To 
restrain  excessive  luxury.  But  had  it  been  said, 
"  eat  not  for  the  sake  of  luxury,"  it  would  not 
have  been  borne.  They  were  therefore  shut  up 
under  the  necessity  of  the  law,  that  they  might 
abstain  from  the  stronger  principle  of  fear.  The 
fish  was  not  forbidden,  though  it  was  manifestly 
more  unclean  than  the  swine.  But  they  might 
have  learned  how  pernicious  luxury  was  from 
that  saying  of  Moses,  "  Jeshurun  waxed  fat,  and 
kicked."  (Deut.  xxxii.  15.)  Another  cause  of 
these  prohibitions  might  be,  that  being  straitened 
for  other  food,  they  might  be  reduced  to  slaugh- 
ter sheep  and  oxen;  he  therefore  restrained 
them  from  other  things,  on  account  of  Apis  and 
the  calf,  which  was  an  abomination,  ungrateful, 
polluted,  and  profane.8 

"  Put  them  in  remembrance  of  these  things, 
meditate  upon4  these  things,"  for  by  the  ex- 
pression, "  nourished  up  in  the  words  of  faith 
and  sound  doctrine,"  is  implied  that  he  should 
not  only  recommend  these  things  to  others,  but 
himself  practice  them.  For  he  says,  "  Nour- 
ished up  in  the  words  of  faith,  and  of  good  doc- 
trine, whereunto  thou  hast  attained.  But  refuse 
profane  and  old  wives'  fables."  Why  does  he 
not  say,  abstain  from  them,  but  "  refuse  "?  He 
thus  intimates  that  they  should  be  utterly  re- 
jected. His  meaning  is,  that  he  should  not 
enter  into  any  disputation  with  the  teachers  of 
them,  but  recommend  to  his  own  people  the 
things  prescribed  above.  For  nothing  is  to  be 
gained  by  contending  with  perverse  men,  unless 
where  it  might  have  an  injurious  effect,  if  we 
were  supposed  from  weakness  to  decline  arguing 
with  them. 

"  But  exercise  thyself  unto  godliness,"  that  isr 
unto  a  pure  life,  and  the  most  virtuous  conver- 
sation. He  that  exerciseth  himself,  even  when 
it  is  not  the  season  of  contest,  acts  always  as  if  he 
were  contending,  practices  abstinence,  endures 
all  toils,  is  always  anxious,  endures  much  labor. 
"  Exercise  thyself,"  he  saith,  "  unto  godliness ; 
for  bodily  exercise  profiteth  little,  but  godliness 
is  profitable  for  all  things,  having  the  promise 
of  the  life  that  now  is,  and  of  that  which  is  to 
come."  And  why,  says  one,  does  he  mention 
this  bodily  exercise  ?  To  show  by  comparison 
the  superiority  of  the  other,  in  that  the  former 

.    s  This  is  scarcely  intelligible.    B.  has,  "  for  be  is  unclean,  who 
is  unthankful,  wicked,  and  profane.*' 
*  Or  practice,  v.  15. 


Homily  XIF.] 


HOMILIES  ON  TIMOTHY. 


447 


is  of  no  solid  advantage,  though  it  is  attended 
with  many  toils,  whilst  the  latter  has  a  lasting 
and  abundant  good.  As  when  he  bids  women 
"  adorn  themselves,  not  with  broidered  hair,  or 
gold,  or  costly  array :  but  which  becometh 
women  possessing  godliness ;  with  good  works." 
( i  Tim.  ii.  9,  10.) 

Moral.  "  This  is  a  faithful  saying,  and  worthy 
of  all  acceptation.  For  therefore  we  both  labor 
and  suffer  reproach."  Did  Paul  then  suffer 
reproach,  and  art  thou  impatient?  Did  Paul 
labor,  and  wouldest  thou  live  luxuriously?  But 
had  he  lived  luxuriously,  he  would  never  have 
attained  such  great  blessings.  For  if  worldly 
goods,  which  are  uncertain  and  perishable,  are 
never'  gained  by  men  without  labor  and  pains, 
much  less  are  spiritual.  Well,  saith  one,  but 
some  inherit  them.  Yet  even  when  inherited 
they  are  not  guarded  and  preserved  without 
labor,  and  care,  and  trouble,  no  less  than  those 
nave  that  have  gained  them.  And  I  need  not 
say  that  many  who  have  toiled  and  endured 
hardships  have  been  disappointed  at  the  very 
entrance  of  the  harbor,  and  an  adverse  wind 
has  caused  the  wreck  of  their  hopes,  when  they 
were  upon  the  point  of  possession.  But  with 
us  there  is  nothing  like  this.  For  it  is  God  who 
promised,  and  that "  hope  maketh  not  ashamed." 
(Rom.  v.  5.)  Ye  who  are  conversant  with 
worldly  affairs,  know  ye  not  how  many  men, 
after  infinite  toils,  have  not  enjoyed  the  fruit  of 
their  labors,  either  being  previously  cut  off  by 
death,  or  overtaken  by  misfortune,  or  assailed 
by  disease,  or  ruined  by  false  accusers,  or  some 
other  cause,  which  amidst  the  variety  of  human 
casualties,  has  forced  them  to  go  with  empty 
hands  ? 

But  do  you  not  see  the  lucky  men,  says  one, 
who  with  little  labor  acquire  the  good  things  of 
life?  What  good  things?  Money,  houses,  so 
many  acres  of  land,  trains  of  servants,  heaps  of 
gold  and  silver  ?  Can  you  call  these  good 
things,  and  not  hide  your  head  for  shame  ?  A 
man  called  to  the  pursuit  of  heavenly  wisdom, 
and  gaping  after  worldly  things,  and  calling 
them  "  goods,"  which  are  of  no  value  !  ILthese 
things  are  good,  then  the  possessors  of  them 
must  be  called  good.  For  is  not  he  good,  who 
is  the  possessor  of  what  is  good?  But  when  the 
possessors  of  these  things  are  guilty  of  fraud  and 
rapine,  shall  we  call  them  good?  For  if  wealth 
is  a  good,  but  is  increased  by  grasping,  the  more 
it  is  increased,  the  more  will  its  possessor  be 
considered  to  be  good.  Is  the  grasping  man 
then  good  ?  But  if  wealth  is  good,  and  increases 
by  .grasping,  the  more  a  man  grasps,  the  better 
he  must  be.  Is  not  this  plainly  a  contradiction  ? 
But  suppose  the  wealth  is  not  gained  wrongfully. 
And  how  is  this  possible?  So  destructive  a 
passion  is  avarice,  that  to  grow  rich  without 


jgji^tiV^  u  impossible  This  Christ  declared, 
saying,  "  Make  to  yourselves  friends  of  the 
Mammon  of  unrighteousness."  (Luke  xvi.  19.) 
-But  what,  jf .  he  succeeded  to  his  father's  inheri- 
tance? Then  fie  received  what  had  been  gath- 
ered by  injustice.  For  it  was  not  from  Adam 
that  his  ancestor  inherited  riches,  but,  of  the 
many  that  were  before  him,  some  one  must 
probably  have  unjustly  taken  and  enjoyed  the 
goods  of  others.  jAVhat  then?  he  says,  did 
Abraham  hold  unrighteous  wealth ;  and  Job, 
that  blameless,  righteous,  and  faithful  man,  who 
"  feared  God  and  eschewed  evil "  ?  Theirs  was 
a  wealth  that  consisted  not  in  gold  and  silver, 
nor  in  houses,  but  in  cattle.  Besides  this,  he 
was  enriched  by  God.1  And  the  author  of  that 
book,  relating  what  happened  to  that  blessed 
man,  mentions  the  loss  of  his  camels,  his  mares 
and  asses,  but  does  not  speak  of  treasures  of 
gold  or  silver  being  taken  away.  The  riches  of  ■ 
Abraham  too  were  his  domestics.  What  then  ? 
Did  he  not  buy  them?  No,  for  to  this  very 
point  the  Scripture  says,  that  the  three  hundred 
and  eighteen  were  born  in  his  house.  (Gen. 
xix.  14.)  He  had  also  sheep  and  oxen.  Whence 
then  did  he  send  gold  to  Rebekah  ?  (Gen.  xxiv. 
22  ;  xii.  16.)  From  the  gifts  which 'tra  received 
from  Egypt  without  violence  or  wrong.r        " 

Tell  me,  then,  whence  art  thou  rich?  From 
whom  didst  thou  receive  it,  and  from  whom  he 
who  transmitted  it  to  thee?  From  his  father 
and  his  grandfather.  But  canst  thou,  ascending 
through  many  generations,  show  the  acquisition 
just?  It  cannot  be.  The  root  and  origin  of  it 
must  have  been  injustice.  Why?  Because  God 
in  the  beginning  made  not  one  man  rich,  and 
another  poor.  Nor  did  He  afterwards  take  and 
show  to  one  treasures  of  gold,  and  deny  to  the 
other  the  right  of  searching  for  it :  but  He  left 
the  earth  free  to  all  alike.  Why  theiviT  it  is 
common,  have  you  so  many  acres  of  land, 
while  your  neighbor  has  not  a  portion  of  it  ?  It 
was  transmitted  to  me  by  my  father.  And  by 
whom  to  him?  By  his  forefathers.  But  you 
must  go  back  and  find  the  original  owner.  Jacob 
had  wealth,  but  it  was  earned  as  the  hire  of  his 
labors. 

But  I  will  not  urge  this  argument  too  closely. 
Let  your  riches  be  justly  gained,  and  without 
rapine.  For  you  are  not  responsible  for  the 
covetous  acts  of  your  father.  Your  wealth  may 
be  derived  from  rapine ;  but  you  were  not  the 
plunderer.  Or  granting  that  he  did  not  obtain 
it  by  robbery,  that  his  gold  was  cast  up  some- 
where out  of  the  earth.  What  then?  Is  wealth 
therefore  good?  By  no  means.  At  the  same 
time  it  is  not  bad,  he  says,  if  its  possessor  be 
not  covetous  ;  it  is  not  bad,  if  it  be  distributed 


1  0f6irAovToc. 


44? 


WORKS   OF   ST.   CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  XII. 


I 


to  the  poor,  otherwise  it  is  bad,  it  is  ensnaring. 
"  But  if  he  does  not  evil,  though  he  does  no 
good,  it  is  not  bad,"  he  argues.   True.    But  is 


tention  is  bred.  This  state  therefore  is  rather 
our  inheritance,  and  more  agreeatrtettTTiature. 
Why  is  it,  that  there  is  never  a  dispute  about  a 


not  this  an  evil,  that  you  alone  should  have  the»  market-place  ?  Is  it  not  because  it  isTomraon 
Lord's  property,  that  you  alone  should  enjoy* ta>  all?    But  about  a  house,  and  about" property, 


.wjiat  is  common  ?  Is  not  "  the  earth  God's,  and 
the  fullness"  thereof '*?  If  then  our  posses- 
sions belong  to  one  common  Lord,  they  belong 
also  to  our  fellow-servants.  The  possessions  of 
pag  Lord  are  ail  common.  Do  we  not  see  this 
uie  settled  rule  in  great  houses  ?  To  all  is  given 
an  equal  portion  of  provisions,  for  it  proceeds 
from  the  treasures  of  their  Lord.  Arji^the 
house  of  the  master  is  opened  to  all.  Theking's 
possessions  are  all  common,  as  cities,  market- 
places, and  public  walks.    We  all  share  'them 

Mark  the  wise  dispensation  of  God.  That  He 
..might  put  mankind  to  shame,  He  hath  made 
certain  things  common,  as  the  ^sun,  air,  earth, 
and  water,  the  heaven,  the  sea,  the  light,  the 
stars ;  whose  benefits  are  dispensed  equally  to 
all  as  brethren.  We  are  all  formed  with  the 
same  eyes,  the  same  body,  the  same  soul,  the 
same  structure  in  all  respects,1  all  things  from 
the  earth,  all  men  from  one  man,  and  all  in  the 
same  habitation.  But  these  are  not  enough  to 
jha_me  us.  Other  things  then  (as  we  have  said) 
He  hath  made  common,  as  baths,  cities,  market- 
places., walks.  And  observe,  that  concerning 
things  that  are  common  there  is  no  contention, 
but  all  is  peaceable.  But  when  one  attempts  to 
possess  himself  of  anything,  to  make  it  his  own, 
Jhea.  contention  is  introduced,  as  if  nature  her- 
self were  indignant,  that  when  God  brings  us 
together  in  every  way,  we  are  eager  to  divide 
and  separate  ourselves  by  appropriating  things, 
and  by  using  those  cold  words  "  mine  and 
thine."  Then  there  is  contention  and  uneasi- 
ness.    But  where  this  is  not,  no  strife  or'con- 

1  "  Hath  not  a  Jew  the  same  organs,  the  same  dimensions?  " 
—  Shakespeare,  Merchant  of  Venice. 


men  are  always  disputing.  Things  necessary 
are  set  before  us  in  common ;  but.fiveu  m-the 
least  things  we  do  not  observe  a  community. 
Yet  those  greater  things  He  hath  opened  freely 
to  all,  that  we  might  thence  "beT  instructed  to 
have  these  inferior  things  in  commojtL^J&t  for 
all  this,  we  axe  not  instructed. 

But  as  I  said;  how  can  he,  who  is  rich,  be  a 
good  man?  When  he  distributes  his  "richer-he 
is  good,  so  that  he  is  good' When  Be  has  ceased 
to  nave  ft,  when  he  gives  it  to  others ;  but  whilst 
he  keeps  it  himself,  he  is  not  good.  How 
then  is  that  a  good  which  being  retained  ren-" 
ders  men  evil,  being  parted  with  makes  them 
good?  Not  therefore  to  have  wealth,  but  to.. 
have  it  not,  makes  one  appear.,  to \  dst  good. 
Wealth  therefore  is  not  a  good.  But  if,  when 
you  can  receive  it,  you  receive  it  not,  again  you 
are  good. 

If  then  we  are  good,  when  having  it,  we  dis- 
tribute it  to  others;  ot  when- oS&eeSr to~4is^we 
refuse  it,  and  if  we  are  not  good,  whence  re- 
ceive or  gain  it,  how  can  it  be  a. good  thing  Tn 
itself?  Call  it  not  therefore  a  good.  You  possess 
it  not,  because  you  think  it  a  good,  because  you 
are  anxious  to  possess  it.  Cleanse  thy  miiid, 
and  rectify  thy  judgment,  and  then' thou  wilt  be 
good.  Learn  what  are  really  goods.  IrVKafTrre .. 
they?  Virtue  and  benevolence.  These  arrchnot 
that,  are  truly  good.  According  tp  thlsHn^  the 
more  charitable  thou  art,  the  more  goooTlhotr 
wilt  be  considered.  But  if  thou :  ?rt -lichr^Qu 
art  no  longer  good.  Let  us  therefore  become 
thus  good,  that  we  may  be  really^good,  and  may 
obtain  the  good  things  to  come  in  Jesus  Christ, 
with  whom,  &c. 


Homily  XIII.] 


HOMILIES  ON  TIMOTHY. 


449 


HOMILY    XIII. 

i  Timothy  iv.  11-14. 


4* 


These  things  command  and  teach.  Let  no  man  de- 
spise thy  youth;  but  be  thou  an  example  of  the 
believers,  in  word,  in  conversation,  in  charity,  in 
spirit,  in  faith,  in  purity.  Till  I  come,  give  attend- 
ance to  reading,  to  exhortation,  to  doctrine.  Neglect 
not  the  gift  that  is  in  thee,  which  was  given  thee  by 
prophecy,  with  the  laying  on  of  the  hands  of  the 
presbytery." 


In  some  cases  it  is  necessary  to  command,  in 
others  to  teach ;  if  therefore  you  command  in 
those  cases  where  teaching  is  required,  you  will 
become  ridiculous.  Again,  if  you  teach  where 
you  ought  to  command,  you  are  exposed  to  the 
same  reproach.  For  instance,  it  is  not  proper 
to  teach  a  man  not  to  be  wicked,  but  to  com- 
mand ;  to  forbid  it  with  all  authority.  Not  to 
profess^  Judaism,  should  be  a  command,  but 
teaching  is  required,  when  you  would  lead  men 
to  part  with  their  possessions,  to  profess  virginity, 
or  when  you  would  discourse  of  faith.  There- 
fore Paul  mentions  both :  "  Command  and 
teach."  When  a  man  uses  amulets,  or  does 
anything  of  that  kind,  knowing  it  to  be  wrong, 
he  requires  only  a  command ;  but  he  who  does 
it  ignorantly,  is  to  be  taught  his  error. 

"  Let  no  one  despise  thy  youth." 

Observe  that  it  becomes  a  priest  to  command 
and  to  speak  authoritatively,  and  not  always  to 
teach.  But  because,  from  a  common  prejudice, 
youth  is  apt  to  be  despised,  therefore  he  says, 
41  Let  no  man  despise  thy  youth."  For  a  teacher 
ought  not  to  be  exposed  to  contempt.  But  if 
he  is  not  to  be  despised,  what  room  is  there  for 
meekness  and  moderation?  Indeed  the  con- 
tempt that  he  falls  into  personally  he  ought  to 
bear ;  for  teaching  is  commended  by  longsuffer- 
ing.  But  not  so,  where  others  are  concerned ; 
for  this  is  not  meekness,  but  coldness.  If  a  man 
revenge  insults,  and  ill  language,  and  injuries 
offered  to  himself,  you  justly  blame  him.  But 
where  the  salvation  of  others  is  concerned,  com- 
mand, and  interpose  with  authority.  This  is  not 
a  case  for  moderation,  but  for  authority,  lest  the 
public  good  suffer.  He  enjoins  one  or  the  other 
as  the  case  may  require.  Let  no  one  despise 
thee  on  account  of  thy  youth.  For  as  long  as 
thy  life  is  a  counterpoise,  thou  wilt  not  be 
despised  for  thy  youth,  but  even  the  more  ad- 
mired :  therefore  he  proceeds  to  say, 

"  But  be  thou  an  example  of  the  believers  in 
word,  in  conversation,  in  charity,  in  faith,  in 
purity."  In  all  things  showing  thyself  an  exam- 
ple of  good  works  :  that  is,  be  thyself  a  pattern 


of  a  Christian  life,  as  a  model  set  before  others, 
as  a  living  law,  as  a  rule  and  standard  of  good 
living,  for  such  ought  a  teacher  to  be.  "  In 
word,"  that  he  may  speak  with  facility,  "in 
conversation,  in  charity,  in  faith,  in  "  true  "  purity, 
in  temperance." 

"  Till  I  come  give  attendance  to  reading,  to 
exhortation,  to  doctrine." 

Even  Timothy  is  commanded  to  apply  to 
reading.  Let  us  then  be  instructed  not  to  neg- 
lect the  study  of  the  sacred  writings.  Again, 
observe,  he  says,  "  Till  I  come."  Mark  how  he 
consoles  him,  for  being  as  it  were  an  orphan, 
when  separated  from  him,  it  was  natural  that  he 
should  require  such  comfort.  "Till  I  come," 
he  says,  give  attendance  to  reading  the  divine 
writings,  to  exhortation  of  one  another,  to  teach- 
ing of  all. 

"  Neglect  not  the  gift  that  is  in  thee,  which 
was  given  thee  by  prophecy." 

Here  he  calls  teaching  prophecy.1 

"  With  the  laying  on  of  the  hands  of  the 
presbytery."  He  speaks  not  here  of  Presbyters, 
but  of  Bishops.  For  Presbyters  cannot  be  sup- 
posed to  have  ordained  a  Bishop. 

Ver.  15.  "  Meditate  upon  these  things;  give 
thyself  wholly  to  them." 

Observe  how  often  he  gives  him  counsel  con- 
cerning the  same  things,  thus  showing  that  a 
teacher  ought  above  all  things  to  be  attentive  to 
these  points. 

Ver.  16.  "Take  heed,"  he  says,  "unto  thy- 
self, and  unto  the  doctrine  :  continue  in  them." 
That  is,  take  heed  to  thyself,  and  teach  others 
also. 

"  For  in  so  doing  thou  shalt  both  save  thyself 
and  them  that  hear  thee." 

It  is  well  said,  "  Thou  shalt  save  thyself."  For 
he  that  is  "  nourished  up  in  the  words  of  sound 
doctrine,"  first  receives  the  benefit  of  it  himself. 
From  admonishing  others,  he  is  touched  with 
compunction  himself.  For  these  things  are  not 
said  to  Timothy  only,  but  to  all.  And  if  such 
advice  is  addressed  to  him,  who  raised  the  dead, 
what  shall  be  said  to  us  ?  Christ  also  shows  the 
duty  of  teachers,  when  He  says,  "  The  kingdom 
of  heaven  is  like  unto  an  householder,  who 
bringeth  forth  out  of  his  treasure  things  new  and 
old."  (Matt.  xiii.  52.)  And  the  blessed  Paul 
gives  the  same  advice,  that  "  we  through  patience 
and  comfort  of  the  Scriptures  might  have  hope." 

1  He  mean*  that  it  was  a  gift  of  Prophecy,  which  the  Greek  £td- 
may  bear. 


45° 


WORKS   OF   ST.    CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  XIII, 


(Rom.  xv.  4.)  This  he  practiced  above  all 
men,  being  brought  up  in  the  law  of  his  fathers, 
at  the  feet  of  Gamaliel,  whence  he  would  after- 
wards naturally  apply  to  reading :  for  he  who 
exhorted  others  would  himself  first  follow  the 
advice  he  gave.  Hence  we  find  him  continually 
appealing  to  the  testimony  of  the  prophets,  and 
searching  into  their  writings.  Paul  then  applies 
to  reading,  for  it  is  no  slight  advantage  that  is 
to  be  reaped  from  the  Scriptures.  But  we  are 
indolent,  and  we  hear  with  carelessness  and 
indifference.  What  punishment  do  we  not  de- 
serve ! 

"That  thy  profiting  may  appear,"  he  says, 
"  to  all." 

Thus  he  would  have  him  appear  great  and 
admirable  in  this  respect  also,  showing  that  this 
was  still  necessary  for  him,  for  he  wished  that 
his  "profiting  should  appear"  not  only  in  his 
life,  but  in  the  word  of  doctrine. 

Chap.  v.  ver.  1.   "  Rebuke  not  an  elder." 

Is  he  now  speaking  of  the  order?  I  think 
not,  but  of  any  elderly  man.  What  then  if  he 
should  need  correction?  Do  not  rebuke  him, 
but  address  him  as  you  would  a  father  offending. 

Ver.  1.  "The  elder  women  as  mothers,  the 
younger  men  as  brethren ;  the  younger  women 
as  sisters,  with  all  purity." 

Rebuke  is  in  its  own  nature  offensive,  particu- 
larly when  it  is  addressed  to  an  old  man,  and 
when  it  proceeds  from  a  young  man  too,  there 
is  a  threefold  show  of  forwardness.  By  the 
manner  and  the  mildness  of  it,  therefore,  he 
would  soften  it.  For  it  is  possible  to  reprove 
without  offense,  if  one  will  only  make  a  point 
of  this  :  it  requires  great  discretion,  but  it  may 
be  done. 

"  The  younger  men  as  brethren."  Why  does 
he  recommend  this  too  here  ?  With  a  view  to 
the  high  spirit  natural  to  young  men,  whence 
it  is  proper  to  soften  reproof  to  them  also  with 
moderation. 

"  The  younger  women  as  sisters  "  ;  he  adds, 
"with  all  purity."  Tell  me  not,  he  means,  of 
merely  avoiding  sinful  intercourse  with  them. 
There  should  not  be  even  a  suspicion.  For 
since  intimacy  with  young  women  is  always  sus- 
picious, and  yet  a  Bishop  cannot  always  avoid 
it,  he  shows  by  adding  these  words,  that  "  all 
purity  "  is  required  in  such  intimacy.  But  does 
Paul  give  this  advice  to  Timothy?  Yes,  he  says, 
for  I  am  speaking  to  the  world  through  him. 
But  if  Timothy  was  thus  advised,  let  others  con- 
sider what  sort  of  conduct  is  required  of  them, 
that  they  should  give  no  ground  for  suspicion, 
no  shadow  of  pretext,  to  those  who  wish  to 
calumniate. 

Ver.  3.  "  Honor  widows,  that  are  widows 
indeed." 

Why  does  he  say  nothing  of  virginity,  nor 


command  us  to  honor  virgins?  Perhaps  there 
were  not  yet  any  professing  that  state,  or  they 
might  have  fallen  from  it.  "  For  some,"  he 
says,  "are  already  turned  aside  after  Satan." 
(1  Tim.  v.  15.)  For  a  woman  may  have  lost 
her  husband,  and  yet  not  be  truly  a  widow.  As 
in  order  to  be  a  virgin,  it  is  not  enough  to  be  a 
stranger  to  marriage,  but  many  bther  things  are 
necessary,  as  blamelessness  and  perseverance; 
so  the  loss  of  a  husband  does  not  constitute  a 
widow,  but  patience,  with  chastity  and  separa- 
tion from  all  men.  Such  widows  he  justly  bids 
us  honor,  or  rather  support.  For  they  need  sup- 
port, being  left  desolate,  and  having  no  husband 
to  stand  up  for  them.  Their  state  appears  to  the 
multitude  despicable  and  inauspicious.  There- 
fore he  wishes  them  to  receive  the  greater 
honor  from  the  Priest,  and  the  more  so,  because 
they  are  worthy  of  it. 

Ver.  4.  "  But  if  any  widow  have  children  or 
grandchildren,  let  them  learn  first  to  show  piety 
at  home,  and  to  requite  their  parents." 

Observe  the  discretion  of  Paul ;  how  often  he 
urges  men  from  human  considerations.  For  he 
does  not  here  lay  down  any  great  and  lofty  mo- 
tive, but  one  that  is  easy  to  be  understood  :  "  to 
requite  their  parents."  How?  For  bringing 
them  up  and  educating  them.  As  if  he  should 
say,  Thou  has  received  from  them  great  care. 
They  are  departed.  Thou  canst  not  requite 
them.  For  thou  didst  not  bring  them  forth,  nor 
nourish  them.  Requite  them l  in  their  descend- 
ants, repay  the  debt  through  the  children.  "  Let 
them  learn  first  to  show  piety  at  home."  Here 
he  more  simply  exhorts  them  to  acts  of  kind- 
ness ;  then  to  excite  them  the  more,  he  adds, 

"  For  that  is  good  and  acceptable  before 
God."  And  as  he  had  spoken  of  those  "  who 
are  widows  indeed,"  he  declares  who  is  indeed 
a  widow. 

Ver.  5.  "  Now  she  that  is  a  widow  indeed,  and 
desolate,  trusteth  in  God,  and  continueth  in  sup- 
plications and  prayers  night  and  day.  But  she 
that  liveth  in  pleasure  is  dead  while  she  liveth." 

She  who  being  a  widow  has  not  made  choice 
of  a  worldly  life,  is  a  widow  indeed ;  she  who 
trusts  in  God  as  she  ought,  and  continues  in- 
stant in  prayer  night  and  day,  is  a  widow  indeed. 
Not  that  she,  who  has  children,  is  not  a  widow 
indeed.  For  he  commends  her  who  brings  up 
children  as  she  ought.  But  if  any  one  has  not 
children,  he  means,  she  is  desolate,  and  her  he 
consoles,  saying,  that  she  is  most  truly  a  widow, 
who  has  lost  not  only  the  consolation  of  a  hus- 
band, but  that  arising  from  children,  yet  she  has 


1  avrov  seems  unintelligible,  read  afaovt .  B.  has  eirctVov,  which 
would  be,  "  in  his  (her  husband's)  grandchildren."  It  is  not  easy 
to  see  why  St.  Chrys.  takes  this  as  a  direction  to  the  widow  herself, 
except  it  be  from  a  grateful  remembrance  of  his  own  mother's  de- 
voting herself  to  him  as  she  did.  Theodoret  follows  him,  but  says- 
more  of  the  corresponding  duty  of  the  children. 


Homily  XIII.] 


HOMILIES  ON  TIMOTHY. 


45* 


God  in  the  place  of  all.  She  is  not  the  worse 
for  not  having  children,  but  He  fills  up  her  need 
with  consolation,  in  that  she  is  without  children. 
What  he  says  amounts  to  this.  Grieve  not, 
when  it  is  said  that  a  widow  ought  to  bring  up 
children,  as  if,  because  thou  hast  no  children, 
thy  worth  were  on  that  account  inferior.  Thou 
art  a  widow  indeed,  whereas  she  who  liveth  in 
pleasure  is  dead  while  she  liveth. 

But  since  many  who  have  children  choose1 
the  state  of  widowhood,  not  to  cut  off  the  occa- 
sions of  a  worldly  life,  but  rather  to  enhance 
them,  that  they  may  do  what  they  will  with  the 
greater  license,  and  indulge  the  more  freely  in 
worldly  lusts  :  therefore  he  says,  "  She  that  liveth 
in  pleasure  is  dead  while  she  liveth."  Ought 
not  a  widow  then  to  live  in  pleasure  ?  Surely 
not.  If  then  when  nature  and  age  is  weak,  a 
life  of  pleasure  is  not  allowable,  but  leads  to 
death,  eternal  death ;  what  have  men  to  say, 
who  live  a  life  of  pleasure?  But  he  says  with 
reason,  "  She  that  liveth  in  pleasure  is  dead  while 
she  liveth."  But  that  thou  mayest  see  this,  let 
us  now  see  what  is  the  state  of  the  dead,  and 
what  of  the  living,  and  in  which  shall  we  place 
such  an  one  ?  The  living  perform  the  works  of 
life,  of  that  future  life,  which  is  truly  life.  And 
Christ  has  declared  what  are  the  works  of  that 
future  life,  with  which  we  ought  always  to  be 
occupied.  "Come,  inherit  the  kingdom  pre- 
pared for  you  from  the  foundation  of  the  world. 
For  I  was  an  hungered,  and  ye  gave  me  meat. 
I  was  thirsty,  and  ye  gave  me  drink."  (Matt, 
xxv.  34,  35.)  The  living  differ  from  the  dead, 
not  only  in  that  they  behold  the  sun,  and  breathe 
the  air,  but  in  that  they  are  doing  some  good. 
For  if  this  be  wanting,  the  living  are  not  better 
than  the  dead.  That  you  may  learn  this,  hear 
how  it  is  possible  that  even  the  dead  should  live. 
For  it  is  said,  "  God  is  not  the  God  of  the  dead, 
but  of  the  living."  (Matt.  xxii.  32.)  But  this 
again  you  say  is  a  riddle.  Let  us  therefore  solve 
them  both.  A  man  who  liveth  in  pleasure,  is 
dead  whilst  he  liveth.  For  he  liveth  only  to  his 
belly.  In  his  other  senses  he  lives  not.  He 
sees  not  what  he  ought  to  see,  he  hears  not  what 
he  ought  to  hear,  he  speaks  not  what  he  ought 
to  speak.  Nor  does  he  perform  the  actions  of 
the  living.  But  as  he  who  is  stretched  upon  a 
bed,  with  his  eyes  closed,  and  his  eyelids  fast, 
perceives  nothing  that  is  passing ;  so  it  is  with 
this  man,  or  rather  not  so,  but  worse.  For  the 
one  is  equally  insensible  to  things  good  and  evil, 
but  the  latter  is  sensible  to  things  evil  only,  but 
as  insensible  as  the  former  to  things  good.  Thus 
he  is  dead.  For  nothing  relating  to  the  life  to 
come  moves  or  affects  him.  For  intemperance, 
taking  him  into  her  own  bosom,  as  into  some 

1  a  MSS.  "  renounce." 


dark  and  dismal  cavern,  full  of  all  uncleanness, 
causes  him  to  dwell  altogether  in  darkness,  like 
the  dead.  For  when  all  his  time  is  spent 
between  feasting  and  drunkenness,  is  he  not 
dead,  and  buried  in  darkness?  Even  in  the 
morning  when  he  seems  to  be  sober,  he  is  not 
sober  in  reality,  since  he  has  not  yet  rid  and 
cleansed  himself  of  yesterday's  excess  and  is 
still  longing  for  a  repetition,  and  in  that  his  even- 
ing and  noon  he  passes  in  revels,  and  all  the 
night,  and  most  of  the  morning  in  deep  sleep. 

Is  he  then  to  be  numbered  with  the  living? 
Who  can  describe  that  storm  that  comes  of 
luxury,  that  assails  his  soul  and  body?  For  as 
a  sky  continually  clouded  admits  not  the  sun- 
beams to  shine  through  it,  so  the  fumes  of 
luxury  and  wine  enveloping  his  brain,  as  if  it 
were  some  rock,  and  casting  over  it  a  thick  mist, 
suffer  not  reason  to  exert  itself,  but  overspread 
the  drunken  man  with  profound  darkness.  With 
him  who  is  thus  affected,  how  great  must  be  the 
storm  within,  how  violent  the  tumult.  As  when 
a  flood  of  water  has  risen,  and  has  surmounted 
the  entrances  of  the  workshops,2  we  see  all  the 
inmates  in  confusion,  and  using  tubs  and  pitchers 
and  sponges,  and  many  other  contrivances  to 
bale  it  out,  that  it  may  not  both  undermine  the 
building,  and  spoil  all  that  is  contained  in  it :  so 
it  is  when  luxury  overwhelms  the  soul ;  its 
reasonings  within  are  disturbed.  What  is 
already  collected,  cannot  be  discharged,  and  by 
the  introduction  of  more,  a  violent  storm  is 
raised.  For  look  not  at  the  cheerful  and  merry 
countenance,  but  examine  the  interior,  and  you 
will  see  it  full  of  deep  dejection.  If  it  were  pos- 
sible to  bring  the  soul  into  view,  and  to  behold 
it  with  our  bodily  eyes,  that  of  the  luxurious 
would  seem  depressed,  mournful,  miserable,  and 
wasted  with  leanness;  for  the  more  the  body 
grows  sleek  and  gross,  the  more  lean  and  weakly 
is  the  soul ;  and  the  more  one  is  pampered,8  the 
more  is  the  other  hampered.4  As,  when  the 
pupil  of  the  eye  has  the  external  coats  over  it 
too  thick,  it  cannot  put  forth  the  power  of  vision,5 
and  look  out,  because  the  light  is  excluded  by 
the  thick  covering,  and  darkness  often  ensues ; 
so  when  the  body  is  constantly  full  fed,  the  soul 
must  be  invested  with  grossness.  But  the  dead 
rot,  and  are  corrupted,  you  say ;  and  an  unwhole- 
some moisture  distills  from  them.  So  in  her 
"  that  liveth  in  pleasure,"  may  be  seen  rheums, 
and  phlegm,  catarrh,  hiccough,  vomitings,  eruc- 
tations, and  the  like,  which,  as  too  unseemly,  I 
forbear  to  name.  For  such  is  the  dominion  of 
luxury,  that  it  makes  one  endure  things,  which 
we  do  not  even  think  proper  to  mention. 

*  fpycumjpiwp,  probably  cellars. 

*  0aAirer<u. 

*  Oanrtrat,  buried. 

5  It  was  commonly  thought  that  a  certain  effluence  from  the  eye 
was  required  to  meet  the  light. 


452 


WORKS   OF   ST.    CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  XIII. 


But  you  still  ask,  how  is  the  body  dissolved 
whilst  it  yet  eats  and  drinks  ?  Surely  this  is  no 
sign  of  human  life,  since  creatures  without  rea- 
son too  eat  and  drink.  Where  the  soul  lies  dead, 
what  do  eating  and  drinking  avail?  The  dead 
body,  that  is  invested  with  a  flowery  garment,  is 
not  benefited  by  it,  and  when  a  blooming  body 
invests  a  dead  soul,  the  soul  is  not  benefited. 
For  when  its  whole  discourse  is  of  cooks,  and 
caterers,  and  confectioners,  and  it  utters  nothing 
pious,1  is  it  not  dead  ?  For  let  us  consider  what 
is  man?  The  Heathens  say  that  he  is  a  rational 
animal,  mortal,  capable  of  intelligence  and 
knowledge.  But  let  us  not  take  our  definition 
from  them,  but  whence?  From,  the  sacred 
writings.  Where  then  has  the  Scripture  given  a 
definition  of  man?  Hear  its  words.  "There 
was  a  man  perfect  and  upright,  one  that  feared 
God,  and  eschewed  evil."  (Job  i.  2.)  This 
was  indeed  a  man  !  Again,  another  says,  "  Man 
is  great,  and  the  merciful  man  is  precious." 
(Prov.  xx.  6,  Sept.)  Those  who  answer  not  to 
this  description,  though  they  partake  of  mind, 
and  are  never  so  capable  of  knowledge,  the 
Scripture  refuses  to  acknowledge  them  as  men, 
but  calls  them  dogs,  and  horses,  and  serpents, 
and  foxes,  and  wolves,  and  if  there  be  any  ani- 
mals more  contemptible.  If  such  then  is  man, 
he  that  liveth  in  pleasure  is  not  a  man ;  for  how 
can  he  be,  who  never  thinks  of  anything  that 
he  ought?  Luxury  and  sobriety  cannot  exist 
together :  they  are  destructive  of  one  another. 
Even  the  Heathens  say, 

"  A  heavy  paunch  bears  not  a  subtle  mind."  a 

Such  as  these  the  Scripture  calls  men  without 
souls.  "  My  Spirit  (it  is  said)  shall  not  always 
abide  in  these  men,  because  they  are  flesh." 
(Gen.  vi.  3,  Sept.)  Yet  they  had  a  soul,  but 
because  it  was  dead  in  them,  He  calls  them 
flesh.  For  as  in  the  case  of  the  virtuous,  though 
they  have  a  body,  we  say,  "  he  is  all  soul,  he  is 
all  spirit,"  so  the  reverse  is  said  of  those  who  are 
otherwise.  So  Paul  also  said  of  those,  who  did 
not  fulfill  the  works  of  the  flesh,  "  Ye  are  not  in 
the  flesh."  (Rom.  viii.  9.)  Thus  those  who 
live  in  luxury  are  not  in  the  soul  or  in  the  spirit. 
Moral.  "  She  that  liveth  in  pleasure  is  dead 
while  she  liveth."  Hear  this,  ye  women,  that 
pass  your  time  in  revels  and  intemperance,  and 
who  neglect  the  poor,  pining  and  perishing  with 
hunger,  whilst  you  are  destroying  yourself  with 
continual  luxury.  Thus  you  are  the  causes  of 
two  deaths,  of  those  who  are  dying  of  want,  and 
of  your  own,  both  through  ill  measure.  But  if 
out  of  your  fullness  you  tempered  their  want,  you 
would  save  two  lives.  Why  do  you  thus  gorge 
your  own  body  with  excess,  and  waste  that  of  the 


1  firjtiy  fvo-c/Scc,  perhaps  an  euphemism  for  loose  and  profane 
talking. 

3  The  English  proverb  is,  "  Fat  paunches  make  lean  pates." 


poor  with  want ;  why  pamper  this  above  meas- 
ure, and  stint  that  too  beyond  measure?  Con- 
sider what  comes  of  food,  into  what  it  is 
changed.  Are  you  not  disgusted  at  its  be- 
ing named  ?  Why  then  be  eager  for  such  accu- 
mulations? The  increase  of  luxury  is  but  the 
multiplication  of  dung !  For  nature  has  her 
limits,  and  what  is  beyond  these  is  not  nourish- 
ment, but  injury,  and  the  increase  of  ordure. 
Nourish  the  body,  but  do  not  destroy  it.  Food 
is  called  nourishment,  to  show  that,  its  design  is 
not  to  injure  the  body,  but  to  nourish  it.  For 
this  reason  perhaps  food  passes  into  excrement, 
that  we  may  not  be  lovers  of  luxury.  For  if  it 
were  not  so,  if  it  were  not  useless  and  injurious 
to  the  body,  we  should  not  cease  from  devour- 
ing one  another.  If  the  belly  received  as  much 
as  it  pleased,  digested  it,  and  conveyed  it  to  the 
body,  we  should  see  wars  and  battles  innumer- 
able. Even  now  when  part  of  our  food  passes 
into  ordure,  part  into  blood,  part  into  spurious 
and  useless  phlegm,  we  are  nevertheless  so  ad- 
dicted to  luxury,  that  we  spend  perhaps  whole 
estates  on  a  meal.  What  should  we  not  do,  if 
this  were  not  the  end  of  luxury?  The  more 
luxuriously  we  live,  the  more  noisome  are  the 
odors  with  which  we  are  filled.  The  body  is 
like  a  swollen  bottle,  running  out  every  way. 
The  eructations  are  such  as  to  pain  the  head 
of  a  bystander.  From  the  heat  of  fermenta- 
tion within,  vapors  are  sent  forth,  as  from  a 
furnace,  if  bystanders  are  pained,  what,  think 
you,  is  the  brain  within  continually  suffering, 
assailed  by  these  fumes  ?  to  say  nothing  of  the 
channels  of  the  heated  and  obstructed  blood, 
of  those  reservoirs,  the  liver  and  the  spleen,  and. 
of  the  canals  by  which  the  feces  are  discharged. 
The  drains  in  our  streets  we  take  care  to  keep 
unobstructed.  We  cleanse  our  sewers  with  poles 
and  drags,  that  they  may  not  be  stopped,  or 
overflow,  but  the  canals  of  our  bodies  we  do 
not  keep  clear,  but  obstruct  and  choke  them 
up,  and  when  the  filth  rises  to  the  very  throne 
of  the  king,  I  mean  the  brain,  we  do  not  regard 
it,  treating  it  not  like  a  worthy  king,  but  like  an 
unclean  brute.  God  hath  purposely  removed 
to  a  distance  those  unclean  members,  that  we 
might  not  receive  offense  from  them.  But  we 
suffer  it  not  to  be  so,  and  spoil  all  by  our  excess. 
And  other  evils  might  be  mentioned.  To  ob- 
struct the  sewers  is  to  breed  a  pestilence ;  but  if 
a  stench  from  without  is  pestilential,  that  which 
is  pent  up  within  the  body,  and  cannot  find  a 
vent,  what  disorders  must  it  not  produce  both 
to  body  and  soul  ?  Some  have  strangely  com- 
plained, wondering  why  God  has  ordained  that 
we  should  bear  a  load  of  ordure  with  us.  But 
they  themselves  increase  the  load.  God  de- 
signed thus  to  detach  us  from  luxury,  and  to 
persuade  us  not  to  attach  ourselves  to  worldly 


Homily  XIV.] 


HOMILIES   ON   TIMOTHY. 


453 


things.  But  thou  art  not  thus  to  be  persuaded 
to  cease  from  gluttony,  but  though  it  is  but  as 
far  as  the  throat,  and  as  long  as  the  hour  of  eat- 
ing, nay  not  even  so  long,  that  the  pleasure 
abides,  thou  continuest  in  thine  indulgence.  Is 
it  not  true  that  as  soon  as  it  has  passed  the 
palate  and  the  throat,  the  pleasure  ceases  ? 
For  the  sense  of  it  is  in  the  taste,  and  after  that 
is  gratified,  a  nausea  succeeds,  the  stomach-  not 
digesting  the  food,  or  not  without  much  diffi- 
culty. Justly  then  is  it  said,  that  "  she  that 
liveth  in  pleasure  is  dead  while  she  liveth." 
For  the  luxurious  soul  is  unable  to  hear  or  to  see 
anything.  It  becomes  weak,  ignoble,  unmanly, 
illiberal,  cowardly,  full  of  impudence,  servility, 
ignorance,  rage,  violence,  and  all  kinds  of  evil, 
and  destitute  of  the  opposite  virtues.  There- 
fore he  says, 

Ver.  7.  "These  things  give  in  charge,  that 
they  may  be  blameless." 

He  does  not  leave  it  to  their  choice.     Com- 


mand them,  he  says,  not  to  be  luxurious,  assum- 
ing it  to  be  confessedly  an  evil,  as  not  holding 
it  lawful  or  admissible  for  the  luxurious  to  par- 
take of  the  Holy  Mysteries.  "These  things 
command,"  he  says,  "  that  they  may  be  blame- 
less." Thus  you  see  it  is  reckoned  among  sins. 
For  if  it  were  a  matter  of  choice,  though  it  were 
left  undone,  we  might  still  be  blameless.  There- 
fore in  obedience  to  Paul,  let  us  command  the 
luxurious  widow  not  to  have  place  in  the  list  of 
widows.1  For  if  a  soldier,  who  frequents  the 
bath,  the  theater,  the  busy  scenes  of  life,  is 
judged  to  desert  his  duty,  much  more  the 
widows.  Let  us  then  not  seek  our  rest  here, 
that  we  may  find  it  hereafter.  Let  us  not  live 
in  pleasure  here,  that  we  may  hereafter  enjoy 
true  pleasure,  true  delight,  which  brings  no  evil 
with  it,  but  infinite  good.  Of  which  God  grant 
that  we  may  all  be  partakers,  in  Jesus  Christ, 
with  whom,  &c. 


HOMILY    XIV. 


1  Timothy  v.  8. 


•'  But  if  any  provide  not  for  his  own,  and  especially  for 
those  of  his  own  house,  he  hath  denied  the  faith, 
and  is  worse  than  an  infidel." 


Many  consider  that  their  own  virtue  is  suf- 
ficient for  their  salvation,  and  if  they  duly  regu- 
late their  own  life,  that  nothing  further  is  want- 
ing to  save  them.  But  in  this  they  greatly  err, 
which  is  proved  by  the  example  of  him  who 
buried  his  one  talent,  for  he  brought  it  back  not 
diminished  but  entire,  and  just  as  it  had  been 
delivered  to  him.  It  is  shown  also  by  the 
blessed  Paul,  who  says  here,  "  If  any  one  pro- 
vide not  for  his  own."  The  provision  of  which 
he  speaks  is  universal,  and  relates  to  the  soul  as 
well  as  the  body,  since  both  are  to  be  provided 
for. 

"  If  any  provide  not  for  his  own,  and  espec- 
ially for  those  of  his  own  house,"  that  is,  those 
who  are  nearly  related  to  him,  "  he  is  worse  than 
an  infidel."  And  so  says  Isaiah,  the  chief  of  the 
Prophets,  "Thou  shalt  not  overlook  thy  kins- 
men of  thy  own  seed."  (Isa.  lviii.  7,  Sept.) 
For  if  a  man  deserts  those  who  are  united  by 
ties  of  kindred  and  affinity,  how  shall  he  be  af- 
fectionate towards  others  ?  Will  it  not  have  the 
appearance  of  vainglory,  when  benefiting  others 
he  slights  his  own  relations,  and  does  not  pro- 
vide for  them?  And  what  will  be  said,  if  in- 
structing others,  he  neglects  his  own,  though  he 
has  greater  facilities,  and  a  higher  obligation  to 


benefit  them  ?  Will  it  not  be  said,  These  Chris- 
tians are  affectionate  indeed,  who  neglect  their 
own  relatives?8  "He  is  worse  than  an  infidel." 
Wherefore?  Because  the  latter,  if  he  benefits 
not  aliens,  does  not  neglect  his  near  kindred. 
What  is  meant  is  this  :  The  law  of  God  and  of 
nature  is  violated  by  him  who  provides  not  for 
his  own  family.  But  if  he  who  provides  not  for 
them  has  denied  the  faith,  and  is  worse  than  an 
infidel,  where  shall  he  be  ranked  who  has  injured 
his  relatives?  With  whom  shall  he  be  placed? 
But  how  has  he  denied  the  faith  ?  Even  as  it  is 
said,  "  They  profess  that  they  know  God,  but  in 
works  they  deny  Him."  (Tit.  i.  16.)  What 
has  God,  in  whom  they  believe,  commanded? 
"  Hide  not  thyself  from  thine  own  flesh."  (Isa. 
lviii.  7.)  How  does  he  then  believe  who  thus 
denies  God?  Let  those  consider  this,  who  to 
spare  their  wealth  neglect  their  kindred.  It  was 
the  design  of  God,  in  uniting  us  by  the  ties  of 
kindred,  to  afford  us  many  opportunities  of  doing 
good  to  one  another.  When  therefore  thou  neg- 
lectest  a  duty  which  infidels  perform,  hast  thou 
not  denied  the  faith  ?  For  it  is  not  faith  merely 
to  profess  belief,  but  to  do  works  worthy  of  faith. 
And  it  is  possible  in  each  particular  to  believe 
and  not  to  believe.3     For  since  he  had  spoken 

1  Of  the  "  list  of  widows  "  relieved  by  the  Church,  see  St.  Chryt . 
on  the  Priesthood,  book  iii.  c.  16.  Ben.  p.  396,  A. 

*  Colb.,  "  For  the  heathen  will  presently  say,  Well!  these  Chris- 
tians are  affectionate  indeed,  to  neglect  their  own  relatives !  And 
he  well  said,"  &c.  '  Colb.  omits  this  sentence. 


454 


WORKS   OF   ST.    CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  XIV. 


of  luxury  and  self-indulgence,  he  says  that  it  is 
not  for  this  only  that  such  a  woman  is  punished, 
because  she  is  luxurious,  but  because  her  luxury 
compels  her  to  neglect  her  household.  This  he 
says  with  reason ;  for  she  that  iiveth  to  the  belly, 
perishes  hereby  also,  as  "  having  denied  the 
faith."  But  how  is  she  worse  than  an  infidel? 
Because  it  is  not  the  same  thing  to  neglect  our 
kindred,  as  to  neglect  a  stranger.  How  should 
it  be  ?  But  the  fault  is  greater  here,  to  desert 
one  known  than  one  who  is  unknown  to  us,  a 
friend  than  one  who  is  not  a  friend. 

Ver.  9,  10.  "  Let  not  a  widow  be  taken  into 
the  number  under  threescore  years  old,  having 
been  the  wife  of  one  man.  Well  reported  of 
for  good  works." 

He  had  said,  "  Let  them  learn  first  to  show 
piety  at  home,  and  to  requite  their  parents." 
He  had  also  said,  "  She  that  Iiveth  in  pleasure  is 
dead  whilst  she  Iiveth."  He  had  said,  "  If  she1 
provides  not  for  her  own  she  is  worse  than  an 
infidel."  Having  mentioned  the  qualities  which 
not  to  have  would  render  a  woman  unworthy  to 
be  reckoned  among  the  widows,  he  now  men- 
tions what  she  ought  to  have  besides.  What 
then?  are  we  to  receive  her  for  her  years? 
What  merit  is  there  in  that  ?  It  is  not  her  own 
doing  that  she  is  threescore  years  old.  There- 
fore he  does  not  speak  of  her  age  merely,  as,  if 
she  has  even  reached  those  years,  she  may  not 
yet,  he  says,  without  good  works,  be  reckoned 
among  the  number.  But  why  then  is  he  par- 
ticular about  the  age?  He  afterwards  assigns 
a  cause  not  originating  with  himself,  but  with 
the  widows  themselves.  Meanwhile  let  us  hear 
what  follows.  "  Well  reported  of  for  good  works, 
if  she  have  brought  up  children."  Truly,  it  is 
no  unimportant  work  to  bring  up  children ;  but 
bringing  them  up  is  not  merely  taking  care  of 
them ;  they  must  be  brought  up  well ;  as  he 
said  before,  "  If  they  continue  in  faith,  and 
charity,  and  holiness."  (i  Tim.  ii.  15.)  Ob- 
serve how  constantly  he  sets  kindnesses  to  our 
own  relatives  before  those  to  strangers.  First, 
he  says,  "  If  she  have  brought  up  children," 
then,  "  If  she  have  lodged  strangers,  if  she  have 
washed  the  Saints'  feet,  if  she  have  relieved  the 
afflicted,  if  she  have  diligently  followed  every 
good  work."  But  what  if  she  be  poor?  Not 
even  in  that  case  is  she  debarred  from  bringing 
up  children,  lodging  strangers,  relieving  the 
afflicted.  She  is  not  more  destitute  than  the 
widow  who  gave  the  two  mites.  Poor  though 
she  be,  she  has  an  house,  she  does  not  lodge  in 
the  open  air.  **  If,"  he  says,  "  she  have  washed 
the  Saints'  feet."  This  is  not  a  costly  worl!. 
"If  she  have  diligently  followed  every  good 
work."     What  precept  does  he  give  here?     He 

1  The  feminine  is  nut  marked,  but  implied  by  his  comment;  see 
p.  450. 


exhorts  them  to  contribute  bodily  service,  for 
women  are  peculiarly  fitted  for  such  attendance, 
for  making  the  bed  of  the  sick,  and  composing 
them  to  rest. 

Strange  !  what  strictness  does  he  require  of 
widows ;  almost  as  much  as  of  the  Bishop  him- 
self. For  fhe  says,  "  If  she  have  diligently  fol- 
lowed every  good  work."  This  is  as  though  he 
meant  that,  if  she  could  not  of  herself  perform 
it,  she  shared  and  cooperated  in  it.  When  he 
cuts  off  luxury,  he  would  have  her  provident,  a 
good  economist,  and  at  the  same  time  con- 
tinually persevering  in  prayer.  Such  was  Anna. 
Such  strictness  does  he  require  of  widows. 
Greater  even  than  of  virgins,  from  whom  he  yet 
requires  much  strictness,  and  eminent  virtue. 
For  when  he  speaks  of  "  that  which  is  comely," 
and  "  that  she  may  attend  upon  the  Lord  with- 
out distraction  "#(i  Cor.  vii.  35),  he  gives,  in  a 
manner,  a  summary  of  all  virtue.  You  see  that 
it  is  not  merely  the  not  contracting  a  second 
marriage  that  is  enough  to  make  a  widow,  many 
other  things  are  necessary.  But  why  does  he 
discourage  second  marriages  ?  Is  the  thing  con- 
demned? By  no  means.  That  is  heretical. 
Only  he  would  have  her  henceforth  occupied 
in  spiritual  things,  transferring  all  her  care  to 
virtue.  For  marriage  is  not  an  impure  state, 
but  one  of  much  occupation.  He  speaks  of 
their  having  leisure,  not  of  their  being  more 
pure  by  remaining  unmarried.  For  marriage 
certainly  implies  much  secular  engagement.  If 
you  abstain  from  marriage  that  you  may  have 
leisure  for  the  service  of  God,  and  yet  do  not 
so  employ  that  leisure,  it  is  of  no  advantage  to 
you,  (if  you  do  not  use  your  leisure,)  to  perform 
all  services  to  strangers,  and  to  the  Saints.2  If 
you  do  not  thus,  you  abstain  from  marriage  not 
for  any  good  end,  but  as  though  you  condemned 
the  state.  So  the  virgin,  who  is  not  truly  cruci- 
fied to  the  world,  by  declining  marriage,  appears 
to  condemn  it  as  accursed  and  impure. 

Observe,  the  hospitality  here  spoken  of  is  not 
merely  a  friendly  reception,  but  one  given  with 
zeal  and  alacrity,  with  readiness,  and  going 
about  it  as  if  one  were  receiving  Christ  Himself. 
The  widows  should  perform  these  services  them- 
selves, not  commit  them  to  their  handmaids. 
For  Christ  said,  "  If  I  your  Master  and  Lord 
have  washed  your  feet,  ye  ought  also  to  wash 
one  another's  feet."  (John  xiii.  14.)  And 
though  a  woman  may  be  very  rich,  and  of  the 
highest  rank,  vain  of  her  birth  and  noble  family, 
there  is  not  the  same  distance  between  her  and 
others,  as  between  God  and  the  disciples.  If 
thou  receivest  the  stranger  as  Christ,  be  not 
ashamed,  but  rather  glory :  but  if  you  receive 


1  The  sense  is  clear,  but  the  Greek  admits  of  no  grammatical 
construction.  Downes,  as  usual,  alters  it  boldly.  This  translation 
supposes  an  abrupt  construction,  reading  cwtJcurrvg. 


Homily  XIV.] 


HOMILIES   ON   TIMOTHY. 


455 


him  not  as  Christ,  receive  him  not  at  all.  "  He 
that  receiveth  you,"  He  said,  "  receiveth  Me." 
(Matt.  x.  40.)  If  you  do  not  so  receive  him, 
you  have  no  reward.  Abraham  was  receiving 
men  that  passed  as  travelers,  •  as  he  thought, 
and  he  did  not  leave  to  his  servants  to  make 
the  preparations  for  their  entertainment,  but 
took  the  greater  part  of  the  service  upon  him- 
self, and  commanded  his  wife  to  mix  the  flour, 
though  he  had  three  hundred  and  eighteen  ser- 
vants born  in  his  house,  of  whom  there  must 
have  been  many l  maidservants ;  but  he  wished 
that  himself  and  his  wife  should  have  the  reward, 
not  of  the  cost  only,  but  of  the  service.  Thus 
ought  we  ever  to  exercise  hospitality  by  our  own 
personal  exertions,  that  we  may  be  sanctified, 
and  our  hands  be  blessed.  And  if  thou  givest 
to  the  poor,  disdain  not  thyself  to  give  it,  for  it 
is  not  to  the  poor  that  it  is  given,  but  to  Christ ; 
and  who  is  so  wretched,  as  to  disdain  to  stretch 
out  his  own  hand  to  Christ? 

This  is  hospitality,  this  is  truly  to  do  it  for 
God's  sake.  But  if  you  give  orders  with  pride, 
though  you  bid  him  take  the  first  place,  it  is  not 
hospitality,  it  is  not  done  for  God's  sake.  The 
stranger  requires  much  attendance,  much  en- 
couragement, and  with  all  this  it  is  difficult  for 
him  not  to  feel  abashed ;  for  so  delicate  is  his 
position,  that  whilst  he  receives  the  favor,  he  is 
ashamed.  That  shame  we  ought  to  remove  by 
the  most  attentive  service,  and  to  show  by  words 
and  actions,  that  we  do  not  think  we  are  con- 
ferring a  favor,  but  receiving  one,  that  we  are 
obliging  less  than  we  are  obliged.  So  much 
does  good  will  multiply  the  kindness.  For  as 
he  who  considers  himself  a  loser,  and  thinks  that 
he  is  doing  a  favor,  destroys  all  the  merit  of  it ; 
so  he  who  looks  upon  himself  as  receiving  a 
kindness,  increases  the  reward.  "  For  God  lov- 
eth  a  cheerful  giver."  (2  Cor.  ix.  7.)  So  that 
you  are  rather  indebted  to  the  poor  man  for 
receiving  your  kindness.  For  if  there  were  no 
poor,  the  greater  part  of  your  sins  would  not  be 
removed.  They  are  the  healers  of  your  wounds, 
their  hands  are  medicinal  to  you.  The  physi- 
cian, extending  his  hand  to  apply  a  remedy,  does 
not  exercise  the  healing  art  more  than  the  poor 
man,  who  stretches  out  his  hand  to  receive  your 
alms,  and  thus  becomes  a  cure2  for  your  ills. 
You  give  your  money,  and  with  it  your  sins  pass 
away.  Such  were  the  Priests  of  old,  of  whom 
it  was  said,  "  They  eat  up  the  sin  of  My  people." 
(Hosea  iv.  8.)  Thus  thou  receivest  more  than 
thou  givest,  thou  art  benefited  more  than  thou 
benefitest.  Thou  lendest  to  God,  not  to  men. 
Thou  increasest  thy  wealth,  rather  than  dimin- 


1  Old  Lat.,  "  Many  wives  that  were."    "  Of  whom"  may  also 
be  taken  collectively  of  the  household. 
1  cff/mayctop,  as  if  wiping  a  sore  clean. 


ishest  it.     But  if  thou  dost  not  lessen  it  by  giving, 
then  it  is  indeed  diminished  ! 

"If  she  have  received  strangers,  if  she  have 
washed  the  Saints'  feet."  But  who  are  these? 
The  distressed  saints,  not  any  saints  whatever. 
For  there  may  be  saints,  who  are  much  waited 
on  by  every  one.  Do  not  visit  these,  who  are  in 
the  enjoyment  of  plenty,  but  those  who  are  in 
tribulation,  who  are  unknown,  or  known  to  few. 
He  who  hath  "  done  it  unto  the  least  of  these," 
He  saith,  "hath  done  it  unto  Me."  (Matt. 
xxv.  40.) 

Moral.  Give  not  thy  alms  to  those  who  pre- 
side in  the  Church  to  distribute.  Bestow  it  thy- 
self, that  thou  mayest  have  the  reward  not  of 
giving  merely,  but  of  kind  service.  Give  with 
thine  own  hands.  Cast  into  the  furrow  thyself. 
Here  it  is  not  required  to  handle  the  plow,  to 
yoke  the  ox,  to  wait  the  season,  nor  to  break  up 
the  earth,  or  to  contend  with  the  frost.  No  such 
trouble  is  required  here,  where  thou  sowest  for 
heaven,  where  there  is  no  frost  nor  winter  nor 
any  such  thing.  Thou  sowest  in  souls,  where 
no  one  taketh  away  what  is  sown,  but  it  is  firmly 
retained  with  all  care  and  diligence.  Cast  the 
seed  thyself,  why  deprive  thyself  of  thy  reward. 
There  is  great  reward  in  dispensing8  even  what 
belongs  to  others.  There  is  a  reward  not  only 
for  giving,  but  for  dispensing  well  the  things  that 
are  given.  Why  wilt  thou  not  have  this  reward  ? 
For  that  there  is  a  reward  for  this,  hear  how  we 
read  that  the  Apostles  appointed  Stephen  to  the 
ministry  of  the  widows.     (Acts  vi.  5-7.) 

Be  thou  the  dispenser  of  thine  own  gifts. 
Thine  own  benevolence  and  the  fear  of  God 
appoint  thee  to  that  ministry.  Thus  vainglory 
is  excluded.  This  refreshes  the  soul,  this  sanc- 
tifies the  hands,  this  pulls  down  pride.  This 
teaches  thee  philosophy,  this  inflames  thy  zeal, 
this  makes  thee  to  receive  blessings.  Thy  head, 
as  thou  departest,  receives  all  the  blessings  of 
the  widows. 

Be  more  earnest  in  thy  prayers.  Inquire  dili- 
gently for  holy  men,  men  that  are  truly  such, 
who,  in  the  retirement  of  the  desert,  cannot  beg, 
but  are  wholly  devoted  to  God.  Take  a  long 
journey  to  visit  them,  and  give  with  thine  own 
hand.  For  thou  mayest  profit  much  in  thine 
own  person,  if  thou  givest.  Dost  thou  see  their 
tents,  their  lodging?  dost  thou  see  the  desert? 
dost  thou  see  the  solitude?  Often  when  thou 
hast  gone  to  bestow  money,  thou  givest  thine 
whole  soul.  Thou  art  detained,  and  hast  be- 
come his  fellow-captive,  and  hast  been  alike 
estranged  from  the  world. 
•  It  is  of  great  benefit  even  to  see  the  poor. 
"  It  is  better,"  he  saith,  "  to  go  to  the  house 
of  mourning,  than  to  the  house  of  feasting." 

*  Gr.  "  being  able  to  dispense." 


456 


WORKS   OF   ST.    CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  XIV. 


(Eccles.  vii.  2.)  By  the  latter  the  soul  is  in- 
flamed. For  if  thou  canst  imitate  the  luxury, 
then  thou  art  encouraged  to  self-indulgence,  and 
if  thou  canst  not,  thou  art  grieved.  In  the 
house  of  mourning  there  is  nothing  of  this  kind. 
If  thou  canst  not  afford  to  be  luxurious,  thou  art 
not  pained ;  and  if  thou  canst,  thou  art  re- 
strained. Monasteries  are  indeed  houses  of 
mourning.  There  is  sackcloth  and  ashes,  there 
is  solitude,  there  is  no  laughter,  no  pressure  of 
worldly  business.  There  is  fasting,  and  lying 
upon  the  ground ;  there  is  no  impure  savor  of 
rich  food,  no  blood  shed,1  no  tumult,  no  dis- 
turbance, or  crowding.  There  is  a  serene  har- 
bor. They  are  as  lights  shining  from  a  lofty 
place  to  mariners  afar  off.  They  are  stationed 
at  the  port,  drawing  all  men  to  their  own  calm, 
and  preserving  from  shipwreck  those  who  gaze 
on  them,  and  not  letting  those  walk  in  darkness 
who  look  thither.  Go  to  them,  and  make  friends 
with  them,  embrace  their  holy  feet,  more  hon- 
orable to  touch  than  the  heads  of  others.  If 
some  clasp  the  feet  of  statues,  because  they  bear 
but  a  likeness  of  the  king,  wilt  thou  not  clasp 
his  feet  who  has  Christ  within  him,  and  be 
saved?  The  Saints'  feet  are  holy,  though  they 
are  poor  men,  but  not  even  the  head  of  the 
profane  is  honorable.  Such  efficacy  is  there  in 
the  feet  of  the  Saints,  that  when  they  shake  off 
the  dust  of  their  feet,  they  inflict  punishment. 
When  a  saint  is  among  us,  let  us  not  be  ashamed 
of  anything  that  belongs  to  him.2  And  all  are 
saints,  who  unite  a  holy  life  with  a  right  faith : 
arid  though  they  do  not  work  miracles  nor  cast 
out  devils,  still  they  are  saints. 

Go  then  to  their  tabernacles.  To  go  to  the 
monastery  of  a  holy  man  3  is  to  pass,  as  it  were, 
from  earth  to  heaven.  Thou  seest  not  there 
what  is  seen  in  a  private  house.  That  company 
is  free  from  all  impurity.  There  is  silence  and 
profound  quiet.  The  words  "  mine  and  thine  " 
are  not  in  use  among  them.  And  if  thou  re- 
mainest  there  a  whole  day  or  even  two,  .the 
more  pleasure  thou  wilt  enjoy.  There,  as  soon 
as  it  is  day,  or  rather  before  day,  the  cock  crows, 
and  you  see  it  not  as  you  may  see  it 4  in  a  house, 
the  servants  snoring,  the  doors  shut,  all  sleeping 
like  the  dead,  whilst  the  muleteer  without  is 
ringing  his  bells.  There  is  nothing  of  all  this. 
All,  immediately  shaking  off  sleep,  reverently 
rise  when  their  President  calls  them,  and  form- 
ing themselves  into  a  holy  choir,  they  stand,  and 
lifting  up  their  hands  all  at  once  sing  the  sacred 
hymns.  For  they  are  not  like  us,  who  require 
many  hours  to  shake  off  sleep  from  our  heavy 

1  They  commonly  abstained  from  all  animal  food;  see  p.  457. 

3  Sav.  mar.  rut*  airrov.  The  other  reading  is  scarcely  intelli- 
gible. 

*  piovaarijpiov.  The  monasteries  of  that  date  were  formed  by 
those  who  gathered  round  some  holy  man.  For  instances,  see  The- 
odoret,  Hist.  Kclig. 

4  Some  words  added  from  Colb. 


heads.  We  indeed,  as  soon  as  we  are  waked, 
sit  some  time  stretching  our  limbs,  go  as  nature 
calls,  then  proceed  to  wash  our  face  and  our 
hands ;  afterwards  we  take  our  shoes  and  clothes, 
and  a  deal  of  time  is  spent. 

It  is  not  so  there.  No  one  calls  for  his  ser- 
vant, for  each  waits  upon  himself:  neither  does 
he  require  many  clothes,  nor  need  to  shake  off 
sleep.  For  as  soon  as  he  opens  his  eyes,  he  is 
like  one  who  has  been  long  awake  in  collected- 
ness.5  For  when  the  heart  is  not  stifled  within 
by  excess  of  food,  it  soon  recovers  itself,  and  is 
immediately  wakeful.  The  hands  are  always 
pure;  for  his  sleep  is  composed  and  regular. 
No  one  among  them  is  found  snoring  or  breath- 
ing hard,  or  tossing  about  in  sleep,  or  with  his 
body  exposed  ;  but  they  lie  in  sleep  as  decently 
as  those  who  are  awake,  and  all  this  is  the  effect 
of  the  orderly  state  of  their  souls.  These  are 
truly  saints  and  angels  among  men.  And  marvel 
not  when  you  hear  these  things.  For  their  great 
fear  of  God  suffers  them  not  to  go  down  into 
the  depths  of  sleep,  and  to  drown  their  minds, 
but  it "  falls  lightly  upon  them,  merely  affording 
them  rest.  And  as  their  sleep  is,  such  are  their 
dreams,  not  full  of  wild  fancies  and  monstrous 
visions. 

But,  as  I  said,  at  the  crowing  of  the  cock 
their  President  comes,  and  gently  touching  the* 
sleeper  with  his  foot,  rouses  them  all.  For 
there  are  none  sleeping  naked.  Then  as  soon 
as  they  have  arisen  they  stand  up,  and  sing  the 
prophetic  hymns  with  much  harmony,  and  well 
composed  tunes.  And  neither  harp  nor  pipe 
nor  other  musical  instrument  utters  such  sweet 
melodies,  as  you  hear  from  the  singing  of  these 
saints  in  their  deep  and  quiet  solitudes.  And 
the  songs  themselves  too  are  suitable,  and  full 
of  the  love  of  God.  "  In  the  night,"  they  say, 
"  lift  up  your  hands  unto  God.  With  my  soul 
have  I  desired  Thee  in  the  night,  yea  with  my 
spirit  within  me  will  I  seek  Thee  early."  (Isa. 
xx vi.  9.)  And  the  Psalms  of  David,  that  cause 
fountains  of  tears  to  flow.  For  when  he  sings, 
"  I  am  weary  with  my  groaning,  all  the  night 
make  I  my  bed  to  swim;  I  water  my  couch 
with  my  tears  "  (Ps.  vi.  6)  :  and,  again,  "  I  have 
eaten  ashes  like  bread."  (Ps.  cii.  9.)  "What 
is  man  that  thou  art  mindful  of  him?"  (Ps. 
viii.  4.)  "  Man  is  like  to  vanity,  his  days  are 
as  a  shadow  that  passeth  away."  (Ps.  cxliv.  4.) 
"  Be  not  afraid  when  one  is  made  rich,  when 
the  glory  of  his  house  is  increased  "  (Ps.  xlix. 
16);  and,  "Who  maketh  men  to  be  of  one 
mind  in  a  house  "  (Ps.  lxviii.  6)  :  and,  "  Seven 
times  a  day  do  I  praise  Thee,  because  of  Thy 
righteous  judgments  "  (Ps.  cxix.  164)  :  and,  "  At 
midnight  will  I  rise  to  give  thanks  unto  Thee, 


5  rijf  pijt/rc*M>  iv*K*v. 


•  al.  each. 


Homily  XIV.] 


HOMILIES   ON   TIMOTHY. 


457 


because  of  Thy  righteous  judgments  "  (P$.  cxix. 
62)  :  and,  "  God  will  redeem  my  soul  from  the 
power  of  the  grave"  (Ps.  xlix.  15):  and, 
"Though  I  walk  through  the  valley  of  the 
shadow  of  death,  I  will  fear  no  evil,  for  Thou 
art  with  me  "  (Ps.  xxiii.  4)  :  and,  "  I  will  not 
be  afraid  for  the  terror  by  night,  nor  for  the 
arrow  that  flieth  by  day,  nor  for  the  pestilence 
that  walketh  in  darkness,  nor  for  the  destruction 
that  waste th  at  noonday"  (Ps.  xci.  5,  6)  :  and, 
"  We  are  counted  as  sheep  for  the  slaughter " 
(Ps.  xliv.  22)  :  he  expresses  their  ardent  love 
to  God.  And  again,  when  they  sing  with  the 
Angels,  (for  Angels  too  are  singing  then,) 
"  Praise  ye  the  Lord  from  the  Heavens."  (Ps. 
cxlviii.  1.)  And  we  meanwhile  are  snoring,  or 
scratching  our  heads,  or  lying  supine  meditating 
endless  deceits.1  Think  what  it  was  for  them  to 
spend  the  whole  night  in  this  employment. 

And  when  the  day  is  coming  on,  they  take 
rest  again ;  for  when  we  begin  our  works,  they 
have  a  season  of  rest.2  But  each  of  us,  when  it  is 
day,  calls  upon  his  neighbor,  takes  account  of  his 
outgoings,  then 3  goes  into  the  forum ;  trembling 
he  appears  before  the  magistrate,  and  dreads 
a  reckoning.  Another  visits  the  stage,  another 
goes  about  his  own  business.  But  these  holy 
men,  having  performed  their  morning  prayers 
and  hymns,  proceed  to  the  .reading  of  the  Scrip- 
tures. There  are  some  too  that  have  learned 
to  write  out  books,  each  having  his  own  apart- 
ment assigned  to  him,  where  he  lives  in  per- 
petual quiet ;  no  one  is  trifling,  not  one  speaks 
a  word.  Then  at  the  third,  sixth,  and  ninth 
hours,  and  in  the  evening,  they  perform  their 
devotions,  having  divided  the  day  into  four 
parts,  and  at  the  conclusion  of  each  they  honor 
God  with  psalms  and  hymns,  and  whilst  others 
are  dining,  laughing,  and  sporting,  and  bursting 
with  gluttony,  they  are  occupied  with  their 
hymns.  For  they  have  no  time  for  the  table, 
nor  for  these  things  of  sense.  After  their  meal4 
they  again  pursue  the  same  course,  having  pre- 
viously given  themselves  a  while  to  sleep.  The 
men  of  the  world  sleep  during  the  day :  but 
these  watch  during  the  night.  Truly  children 
of  light  are  they  !  And  while  the  former,  hav- 
ing slept  away  the  greater  part  of  the  day,  go 
forth  oppressed  with  heaviness,  these  are  still 
collected,5  remaining  without  food6  till  the 
evening,  and  occupied  in  hymns.  Other  men, 
when  evening  overtakes   them,  hasten   to   the 


1  He  means  not  self-deceits,  but  actual  frauds,  for  he  is  now  as  it 
were  on  a  sally,  among  the  enemy's  works. 
3  Not  their  principal  rest,  but  an  interval. 

*  So  Old  Lat.  (prob.  from  cito  ei«)  Edd.  «i  ci«,  "  if  he  goes." 
Colb.  om.  <i. 

*  dpiarov.     See  on  Stat.  Horn.  ix.  x,  note  c,  and  x.  i,  note  a. 
8  vrftftovaty. 

*  This  seems  to  contradict  what  was  said  just  before,  but  it  need 
not  be  taken  quite  strictly,  as  the  former  meal  was  not  at  table,  and 
extremely  light. 


baths,  and  different  recreations,  but  these,  being 
relieved  from  their  labors,  then  betake  them- 
selves to  their  table,  not  calling  up  a  multitude 
of  servants,  nor  throwing  the  house  into  bustle 
and  confusion,  nor  setting  before  them  high- 
seasoned  dishes,  and  rich-steaming  viands,  but 
some  only  partaking  of  bread  and  salt,  to  which 
others  add  oil,  whilst  the  weakly  have  also  herbs 
and  pulse.  Then  after  sitting  a  short  time,  or 
rather  after  concluding  all  with  hymns,  they  each 
go  to  rest  upon  a  bed  made  for  repose  only  and 
not  for  luxury.  There  is  no  dread  of  magis- 
trates, no  lordly  arrogance,  no  terror  of  slaves, 
no  disturbance  of  women  or  children,  no  multi- 
tudes of  chests,  or  superfluous  laying  by  of  gar- 
ments, no  gold  or  silver,  no  guards  and  senti- 
nels, no  storehouse.  Nothing  of  all  these,  but 
all  there  is  full  of  prayer,  of  hymns,  and  of  a 
spiritual  savor.  Nothing  carnal  is  there.  They 
fear  no  attacks  of  robbers,  having  nothing  of 
which  they  can  be  deprived,  no  wealth,  but  a  soul 
and  body,  of  which  if  they  are  robbed,  it  is  not 
a  loss  but  a  gain.  For  it  is  said,  "  To  me  to 
live  is  Christ,  and  to  die  is  gain."  (Phil.  i.  21.) 
They  have  freed  themselves  from  all  bonds. 
Truly,  "  The  voice  of  gladness  is  in  the  taber- 
nacles of  the  righteous."     (Ps.  cxviii.  15.) 

There  is  no  such  thing  to  be  heard  there  as 
wailing  and  lamentation.  Their  roof  is  free  from 
that  melancholy  and  those  cries.  Deaths  hap- 
pen there  indeed,  for  their  bodies  are  not  im- 
mortal, but  they  know  not  death,  as  death. 
The  departed  are  accompanied  to  the  grave 
with  hymns.  This  they  call  a  procession/  not 
a  burial;8  and  when  it  is  reported  that  any 
one  is  dead,  great  is  their  cheerfulness,  great 
their  pleasure ;  or  rather  not  one  of  them  can 
bear  to  say  that  one  is  dead,  but  that  he  is  per- 
fected. Then  there  is  thanksgiving,  and  great 
glory,  and  joy,  every  one  praying  that  such  may 
be  his  own  end,  that  so  his  own  combat  may 
terminate,  and  he  may  rest  from  his  labor  and 
struggles,  and  may  see  Christ.  And  if  any  is 
sick,  instead  of  tears  and  lamentations  they  have 
recourse  to  prayers.  Often  not  the  care  of 
physicians,  but  faith  alone  relieves  the  sick. 
And  if  a  physician  be  necessary,  then  too  there 
is  the  greatest  firmness  and  philosophy.  There 
is  no  wife  tearing  her  hair,  nor  children  bewail- 
ing their  orphan  state  before  the  time,  nor 
slaves  entreating  the  dying  man  to  give  them  an 
assurance  that  they  shall  be  committed  to  good 
hands.  Escaping  from  all  these,  the  soul  looks 
but  to  one  thing  at  its  last  breath,  that  it  may 
depart  in  favor  with  God.  And  if  disease  oc- 
curs, the  causes  of  it  are  matter  of  glory  rather 
than  of  reproach,  as  in  other  cases.  For  it  pro- 
ceeds not  from  gluttony  nor  fullness  of  the  head, 


irpoirofim)!'. 


*  cjc^opdur. 


45« 


WORKS   OF   ST.    CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  XIV. 


but  from  intense  watchfulness  and  fasting,  or  the 
like  causes  ;  and  hence  it  is  easily  removed,  for 
it  is  sufficient  for  its  removal  to  abate  the  severity 
of  these  exercises. 

Tell  me  then,  you  will  say,  whether  any  one 
could  wash  the  Saints'  feet  in  the  Church? 
Whether  such  are  to  be  found  among  us  ?  Yes  : 
undoubtedly  they  are  such.  Let  us  not,  how- 
ever, when  the  life  of  these  saints  is  described, ' 
despise  those  that  are  in  the  Churches.  There  ; 
are  many  such  often  among  us,  though  they  are  i 
in  secret.  Nor  let  us  despise  them,  because  they  j 
go  from  house  to  house,  or  go  into  the  forum,  or  : 
stand  forth  in  public.1  God  hath  even  com- 
manded such  services,  saying,  "Judge  the  father- 
less, plead  for  the  widow."  (Isa.  i.  17.)  Many 
are  the  ways  of  being  virtuous,  as  there  are  many 
varieties  of  jewels,2  though  all  are  called  jewels ; 
one  is  bright  and  round  on  all  sides,  another  has 
some  different  beauty.  And  how  is  this?  As 
coral  has,  by  a  kind  of  art,  its  line  extended,  and 
its  angles  shaped  off,  and  another  color  more 
delicious  than  white,  and  the  prasius  above  every 
green,  another  has  the  rich  color  of  blood,  an- 
other an  azure  surpassing  the  sea,  another  is 
more  brilliant  than  the  purple,  and  thus  rivaling 
in  their  varieties  all  the  colors  of  flowers  or  of 
the  sun.  Yet  all  are  called  jewels.  So  it  is  with 
the  Saints.  Some  discipline  3  themselves,  some 
the  Churches.  Paul  therefore  has  well  said, 
"If  she  have  washed  the  Saints'  feet,  if  she  have 
relieved  the  afflicted."  For  he  speaks  thus,  that 
rje  may  excite  us  all  to  imitation.  Let  us  hasten 
then  to  perform  such  actions,  that  we.  may  be 
able  hereafter  to  boast  that  we  have  washed  the 
Saints'  feet.  For  if  we  ought  to  wash  their  feet, 
much  more  ought  we  to  give  them  our  money 
with  our  own  hands,  and  at  the  same  time  study 
to  be  concealed.  "  Let  not  thy  left  hand  know," 
He  says,  "  what  thy  right  hand  doeth."    (Matt. 

vi.  3-) 

Why  takest  thou  so  many  witnesses  ?    Let  not 

thy  servant  know  it,  nor,  if  possible,  thy  wife. 

Many  are  the  impediments  of  the  deceitful  one. 

1  irpoiaravrai.    "  Stand  forth  in  behalf  of  a.i  nhcr." 

*  fiapyapiruiv t  pearls.  • 

*  OUTKOViTKV. 


Often  she  who  never  before  interfered,  will  im- 
pede such  works,  either  from  vainglory,  or  some 
other  motive.     Even  Abraham,  who  had  an  ad- 
mirable wife,  when  he  was  about  to  offer  up  his 
son,  concealed  it  from  her,  though  he  knew  not 
what  was  to  happen,  but  was  fully  persuaded 
that  he  must  slaughter  his  son.     What  then, 
would  any  one  that  was  but  an  ordinary  man 
have  said  ?    Would  it  not  be,  "  Who  is  this  that 
perpetrates  such  acts?  "    Would  he  not  have  ac- 
cused him  of  cruelty  and  brutality?     His  wife 
was  not  even  allowed  to  see  her  son,  to  receive 
his  last  words,  to  witness  his  dying  struggles. 
But  he  led  him  away  like  a  captive.      That  just 
man  though  not  of  any  such  thing,  inebriated  as 
he  was  with  zeal,4  so  that  he  looked  only  how  to 
fulfill  that  which  was  commanded.     No  servant, 
no  wife  was  present,  nay,  he  himself  knew  not 
what  would  be  the  issue.     But  intent  upon  offer- 
ing up  a  pure  victim,  he  would  not  defile  it  with 
tears,  or  with  any  opposition.     Mark  too  with 
what  gentleness  Isaac  asks,  "  Behold  the  fire  and 
the  wood,  but  where  is  the  lamb  for  a  burnt 
offering?":  and  what  was  the  father's  answer? 
"  My  son,  God  will  provide  Himself  a  lamb  for 
a  burnt  offering."     (Gen.  xxii.  7,  8.)     In  this  he 
uttered  a  prophecy   that   God  would   provide 
Himself  a  burnt  offering  in  His  Son,  and  it  also 
came  true  at  the  time.     But  why  did  he  conceal 
it  from  him  who  was  to  be  sacrificed  ?     Because 
he  feared  lest  he  should  be  astounded/  lest  he 
should  prove  unworthy.     With  such  care  and 
prudence  did  he  act  throughout  this  affair  !    Well 
then  hath  the  Scripture  said,  "  Let  not  thy  left 
hand  know  what  thy  right  hand  doeth."     If  we 
have  one  dear  to  us  as  one  of  our  own  members, 
let  us  not  be  anxious  to  show  to  him  our  chari- 
table works,  unless  it  be  necessary.     For  many 
evils  may  arise  from  it.     A  man  is  excited  to 
vainglory,  and   impediments  are  often  raised. 
For  this  reason  let  us  conceal  it,  if  possible,  from 
our  own  selves,  that  we  may  attain  the  blessings 
promised,  through  the  grace  and  lovingkindness 
of  Jesus  Christ  our  Lord,  with  whom,  &c. 


*  irodw.    Love  of  God,  or  desire  to  do  His  will. 
0  vafucri<rj). 


Homily  XV.] 


HOMILIES   ON   TIMOTHY. 


459 


HOMILY    XV. 

i  Timothy  v.  11-15. 


"But  the  younger  widows  refuse:  for  when  they  have 
begun  to  wax  wanton  against  Christ,  they  will  marry ; 
having  condemnation,  because  they  have  cast  off  their 
first  faith.  And  withal  they  learn  to  be  idle,  wander- 
ing about  from  house  to  house;  and  not  only  idle, 
but  tattlers  also  and  busybodies,  speaking  things 
which  they  ought  not.  I  will  therefore  that  the 
younger  widows  marry,  bear  children,  guide  the 
house,  give  none  occasion  to  the  adversary  to  speak 
reproachfully.  For  some  are  already  turned  aside 
after  Satan." 

Paul  having  discoursed  much  concerning 
widows,  and  having  settled  the  age  at  which 
they  were  to  be  admitted,  saying,  "Let  not  a 
widow  be  taken  into  the  number  under  three- 
score years  old,"  and  having  described  the 
qualifications  of  a  widow,  "  If  she  have  brought 
up  children,  if  she  have  lodged  strangers,  if  she 
have  washed  the  Saints'  feet,"  proceeds  now  to 
say,  "But  the  younger  widows  refuse."  But 
concerning  virgins,  though  the  case  of  their 
falling  is  a  much  more  gross  one,  he  has  said 
nothing  of  this  kind,  and  rightly.  For  they  had 
enrolled  themselves  on  higher  views,  and  the 
work  with  them  proceeded  from  a  greater  eleva- 
tion of  mind.  Therefore  the  receiving  of  stran- 
gers, and  the  washing  of  the  Saints'  feet,  he 
has  represented  by  "attending  upon  the  Lord 
without  distraction"1  (1  Cor.  vii.  34,  35),  and 
by  saying,  "The  unmarried  careth  for  the  things 
that  belong  to  the  Lord."  (1  Cor.  vii.  34,  35.) 
And  if  he  has  not  limited  a  particular  age  for 
them,  it  is  most  likely  because  that  point  is 
settled  by  what  he  has  said  in  this  case.  But 
indeed,  as  I  said,  the  choice  of  virginity  pro- 
ceeded from  a  higher  purpose.  Besides,  in  this 
case  there  had  been  falls,  and  thus  they  had 
given  occasion  for  his  rule,  but  nothing  of  that 
kind  had  occurred  among  the  virgins.  For  that 
some  had  already  fallen  away  is  plain,  in  that  he 
says,  "When  they  have  begun  to  wax  wanton 
against  Christ,  they  will 2  marry " ;  and  again, 
"  For  some  have  already  turned  aside  after 
Satan." 

"  The  younger  widows  refuse,  for  when  they 
have  begun  to  wax  wanton  against  Christ,  they 
will  marry " ;  that  is,  when  they  have  become 
scornful 3  and  luxurious.  For  as  in  the  case  of 
a  just  man,  we  might  say,  "  Let  her  depart,  for 
she  has  become  another's." 4     He  shows  there- 

1  tinrpoatipov. 

*  BtXovcri. 

8  aKKiaBuKTiv. 

*  He  seems  to  mean  that  a  professed  widow,  giving  up  her  pro- 
fession, is  like  a  woman  betrothed  to  a  man,  and  then  disliking  him, 
and  giving  her  affections  to  another. 


fore  that  though  they  chose  widowhood,  it  was 
not  the  choice  of  their  judgment.  So  then  a 
widow,  by  the  state  of  widowhood,  is  espoused 
to  Christ.  For  He  has  said,  "  I  am  the  defender 
of  the  widows  and  the  father  of  the  orphans." 
(Ps.  lxviii.  5.)  He  shows  that  they  do  not 
choose  widowhood  as  they  ought,  but  wax  wan- 
ton :  however  he  bears  with  them.  Elsewhere 
indeed  he  says,  "  I  have  espoused  you  to  one 
husband,  that  I  may  present  you  as  a  chaste 
virgin  to  Christ."  (2  Cor.  xi.  2.)  After  having 
given  their  names  to  Him,4  "  they  will  marry," 
he  says,  "  having  condemnation,  because  they 
have  cast  off  their  first  faith."  By  faith  he  means, 
fidelity  to  their  covenant.  As  if  he  had  said, 
They  have  been  false  to  Christ,  they  have  dis- 
honored Him,  and  transgressed  His  covenant. 
"  And  withal  they  learn  to  be  idle." 

Thus  he  commands  not  only  men,  but  women 
also,  to  work.  For  idleness  is  the  teacher  of 
every  sin.  And  not  only  are  they  exposed  to 
this  condemnation,  but  to  other  sins.  If  there- 
fore it  is  unbecoming  for  a  married  woman  "  to 
go  from  house  to  house,"  much  more  is  it  for  a 
virgin.  "And  not  only  idle,  but  tattlers  also 
and  busybodies,  speaking  things  which  they 
ought  not.  I  will  therefore  that  the  younger 
widows  marry,  bear  children,  guide  the  house." 

What  then  happens,  when  the  care  for  the 
husband  is  withdrawn,  and  the  care  to  please 
God  does  not  constrain  them  ?  They  naturally 
become  idlers,  tattlers,  and  busybodies.  For 
he  who  does  not  attend  to  his  own  concerns  will 
be  meddling  with  those  of  others,  even  as  he 
who  minds  his  own  business  will  take  no  account 
of  and  have  no  care  about  the  affairs  of  another. 
And  nothing  is  so  unbecoming  to  a  woman,  as 
to  busy  herself  in  the  concerns  of  others,  and 
it  is  no  less  unbecoming  to  a  man.  This  is  a 
great  sign  of  impudence  and  forwardness. 

"  I  will  therefore,"  he  says,  (since  they  them- 
selves wish  it,)  "  that  the  younger  widows  marry, 
bear  children,  guide  the  house." 

This  course  is  at  least  preferable  to  the  other. 
They  ought  indeed  to  be  concerned  for  the 
things  of  God,  they  ought  to  preserve  their  faith. 
But  since  they  do  not  this,  it  is  better  to  avoid 
a  worse  course.  God  is  not  dishonored  by  their 
marrying  again,  and  they  do  not  fall  into  those 
practices,  which  have  been  censured.  From 
such  a  widowhood,  no  good  could  arise,  but 
good  may  come  out  of  this  marriage.     Hence 

6  i.e.  by  the  profession  of  a  devout  widowhood. 


460 


WORKS   OF    ST.    CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  XV, 


the  women  will  be  able  to  correct  that  indolence 
and  vanity  of  mind. 

But  why,  since  some  have  fallen  away,  does 
he  not  say  that  much  care  is  to  be  taken  of 
them,  that  they  may  not  fall  into  the  error  he 
has  mentioned  ?  Why  has  he  commanded  them 
to  marry?  Because  marriage  is  not  forbidden, 
and  it  is  a  safeguard  to  them.  Wherefore  he 
adds,  that  they  "  give  none  occasion,"  or  handle, 
"  to  the  adversary  to  speak  reproachfully.  For 
some  are  already  turned  aside  after  Satan." 
Such  widows  as  these  then  he  would  have  re- 
fused, not  meaning  that  there  should  be  no 
younger  widows,  but  that  there  should  be  no 
adulteresses,  that  none  should  be  idle,  busy- 
bodies,  speaking  things  that  they  ought  not, 
that  no  occasion  should  be  given  to  the  adver- 
sary. Had  nothing  of  this  kind  taken  place,  he 
would  not  have  forbidden  them. 

Ver.  16.  "If  any  man  or  woman  that  believ- 
eth  have  widows,  let  them  relieve  them,  and  let 
not  the  Church  be  charged,  that  it  may  relieve 
them  that  are  widows  indeed." 

Observe  how  again  he  speaks  of  those  as 
"widows  indeed,"  who  are  left  destitute,  and 
have  no  resource  from  any  other  quarter.  It 
was  better  to  have  it  so.  For  thus  two  great  ob- 
jects were  attained.  Those1  had  an  oppor- 
tunity of  doing  good,  whilst  these  were  honor- 
ably maintained,  and  the  Church  not  burdened. 
And  he  has  well  said,  "If  any  believer."  For 
it  is  not  fit  that  believing  women  should  be 
maintained  by  unbelievers,  lest  they  should  seem 
to  stand  in  need  of  them.  And  observe  how 
persuasively  he  speaks ;  he  has  not  said,  "  let 
them  maintain  them  expensively,"  but  "let 
them  relieve  them."  "That  the  Church,"  he 
says,  "  may  relieve  them  that  are  widows  in- 
deed." She  therefore  has  the  reward  of  this 
help  also,  for  she  that  helps  the  Church,  helps 
not  her  only,  but  those  widows  too  whom  the 
Church  is  thus  enabled  to  maintain  more  bounti- 
fully. "  I  will  therefore  that  the  younger  widows  " 
—  do  what?  live  in  luxury  and  pleasure?  By 
no  means  ;  but  —  "  marry,  bear  children,  guide 
the  house."  That  he  may  not  be  supposed  to 
encourage  them  to  live  luxuriously,  he  adds, 
that  they  give  no  occasion  to  the  adversary  to 
speak  reproachfully.  They  ought  indeed  to  have 
been  superior  to  the  things  of  this  world,  but 
since  they  are  not,  let  them  abide  in  them  at 
least  upright. 

Ver.  17,  18.  "Let  the  elders  that  rule  well 
be  counted  worthy  of  double  honor,  especially 
they  who  labor  in  the  word  and  doctrine.  For 
the  Scripture  saith,  Thou  shalt  not  muzzle  the 


1 


1  Gr.  fern,  referring  to  the  widows  kept  by  their  relations,  see 
Horn.  xiii.  and  xiv.,  or  perhaps  to  women  relieving  them.  St«c  be- 
low, 1.  9  of  this  page.  Downes,  missing  the  sense,  guesses  it  should 
be  cftcipoi. 


ox  that  treadeth  out  the  corn.   And,  The  laborer 
is  worthy  of  his  reward." 

The  "  honor  "  of  which  he  here  speaks  is  at- 
tention to  them,  and  the  supply  of  their  neces- 
sities, as  is  shown  by  his  adding,  "  Thou  shalt 
not  muzzle  the  ox  that  treadeth  out  the  corn  " 
(Deut.  xxv.  4)  ;  and,  "  The  laborer  is  worthy  of 
his  reward."  (Luke  x.  7.)  So  when  he  says, 
"  Honor  widows,"  he  means,  "  support "  them 
in  all  that  is  necessary.  Thus  he  says,  "  That  it 
may  relieve  those  that  are  widows  indeed " ; 
and  again,  "  Honor  widows  that  are  widows  in- 
deed," that  is,  who  are  in  poverty,  for  the  greater 
their  poverty,  the  more  truly  are  they  widows. 
He  alleges  the  Law,  he  alleges  the  words  of 
Christ,  both  agreeing  herein.  For  the  Law  says, 
"Thou  shalt  not  muzzle  the  ox  that  treadeth 
out  the  corn."  See  how  he  would  have  the 
teacher  labor !  For  there  is  not,  indeed  there 
is  not,  any  other  labor  such  as  his.  But  this  is 
from  the  Law.  But  how  does  he  quote  from 
Christ  ?  "  The  laborer  is  worthy  of  his  reward." 
Let  us  not  then  look  only  to  the  reward,  but  to 
the  terms  of  the  commandment.  "  The  laborer," 
he  says,  "  is  worthy  of  his  reward."  So  that  if 
any  one  lives  in  sloth  and  luxury,  he  is  unworthy 
of  it.  Unless  he  is  as  the  ox  treading  out  the 
corn,  and  bearing  the  yoke,  in  spite  of  heat 
and  thorns,  and  ceases  not  till  he  has  carried 
the  corn  into  the  granary,  he  is  not  worthy. 
Therefore  to  teachers  should  be  granted  a 
supply  of  their  necessities  without  grudging, 
that  they  may  not  faint  nor  be -discouraged,  nor 
by  attention  to  inferior  things  deprive  them- 
selves of  greater;  that  they  may  labor  for 
spiritual  things,  paying  no  regard  to  worldly 
things.  It  was  thus  with  the  Levites ;  they  had 
no  worldly  concerns,  because  the  laity  took  aire 
to  provide  for  them,  and  their  revenues  were 
appointed  by  the  law,  as  tythes,  offerings  of 
gold,2  first-fruits,  vows,  and  many  other  things. 
And  the  law  properly  assigned  these  things  to 
them,  as  seeking  things  present.  But  I  shall  say 
no  more  than  that  those  who  preside  ought  to 
have  food  and  raiment,  that  they  may  not  be 
distracted  by  care  for  these  things.  But  what  is 
double  support?  Double  that  of  the  widows, 
or  of  the  deacons,  or  simply,  liberal  support. 
Let  us  not  then  think  only  of  the  double  main- 
tenance granted  them,  but  of  what  is  added, 
"  Those  who  rule  well."  And  what  is  it  to  rule 
well?  Let  us  hear  Christ,  Who  says,  "The  good 
shepherd  giveth  his  life  for  his  sheep."  (John 
x.  11.)  Thus  to  rule  well,  is,  from  our  concern 
for  them,  never  to  spare  ourselves. 

"  Especially  those  who  labor  in  the  word  and 
doctrine."  Where  then  are  those  who  sav  that 
there  is  no  occasion  for  the  word  and  doctrine? 


'  Colb.  omits  this  clause;  it  is  perhaps  too  bold  to  guess  rii»» 
rwf  Bvaiutv,  for  xpvaitui-,  making  it,  "  the  share  cf  the  sacrifices." 


Homily  XV.] 


HOMILIES   ON  TIMOTHY. 


461 


Whereas  he  says  to  Timothy,  "Meditate  upon 
these  things;  give  thyself  wholly  to  them"; 
and,  "  Give  attendance  to  reading,  to  exhorta- 
tion, to  doctrine ;  for  in  doing  this  thou  shalt 
save  both  thyself,  and  them  that  hear  thee." 
(1  Tim.  iv.  15,  16.)  These  are  the  men  whom 
he  wishes  to  be  honored  most  of  all,  and  he  adds 
the  reason,  for  they  sustain  great  labor.  For 
when  one  is  neither  watchful,  nor  diligent,  but 
merely  sits  in  his  stall  easy  and  unconcerned,1 
whilst  another  wears  himself  out  with  anxiety 
and  exertion,*  especially  if  he  is  ignorant  of 
profane  literature,  ought  not  the  latter  to  be 
honored  above  all  others,  who  more  than  others 
gives  himself  up  to  such  labors  ?  For  he  is  ex- 
posed to  numberless  tongues.  One  censures 
him,  another  praises  him,  a  third  mocks  him, 
another  finds  fault  with  his  memory  and  his 
composition,  and  it  requires  great  strength  of 
mind  'to  endure  all  this.  It  is  an  important 
point,  and  contributes  much  to  the  edification 
of  the  Church,  that  the  rulers  of  it  should  be 
apt  to  teach.  If  this  be  wanting,  many  things 
in  the  Church  go  to  ruin.  Therefore  in  addi- 
tion to  the  qualifications  of  hospitality,  modera- 
tion, and  a  blameless  life,  he  enumerates  this 
also,  saying,  "Apt  to  teach."  For  why  else 
indeed  is  he  called  a  teacher?  Some  say  that 
he  may  teach  philosophy  by  the  example  of  his 
life,  so  that  all  else  is  superfluous,  and  there  is 
no  need  of  verbal  instruction  in  order  to  pro- 
ficiency. But  why  then  does  Paul  say,  "  espec- 
ially they  who  labor  in  the  word  and  doctrine  "  ? 
For  when  doctrines  are  concerned,  what  life 
will  answer  the  purpose?  And  of  what  word 
is  he  speaking?  Not  of  pompous  language, 
nor  of  discourse  set  off  with  external 8  decora- 
tions, but  that  which  possesses  the  mighty  power 
of  the  Spirit,  and  abounds  with  wisdom  and 
understanding.  It  needs  not  set  phrases,  but 
thoughts  to  give  it  utterance,  not  skill  in  com- 
position, but  power  of  mind. 

Ver.  19.  "Against  an  elder  receive  not  an 
accusation,  but  before  two  or  three  witnesses." 

May  we  then  receive  an  accusation  against 
a  younger  man,  or  against  any  one  at  all  with- 
out witnesses?  Ought  we  not  in  all  cases  to 
come  to  our  judgments  with  the  greatest  exact- 
ness? What  then  does  he  mean?  Do  not  so, 
he  means,  with  any,  but  especially  in  the  case 
of  an  elder.  For  he  speaks  of  an  elder  not 
with  respect  to  office,  but  to  age,  since  the 
young  more  easily  fall  into  sin  than  their  elders. 
And  it  is  manifest  from  hence  that  the  Church, 
and  even  the  whole  people  of  Asia,  had  been 
now  intrusted  to  Timothy,  which  is  the  reason 
why  he  discourses  with  him  concerning  elders. 


1  9vv*tp*vxi. 

1  fttAtrwy.     He  seems  to  mean  in  preparing  his  discourses. 

*  Or  perhaps  "  heathenish." 


Ver.  20.  "Them  that  sin  rebuke  before  al|, 
that  others  also  may  fear." 

Do  not,  he  says,  hastily  cut  them  off,  but 
carefully  enquire  into  all  the  circumstances,  and 
when  thou  hast  thoroughly  informed  thyself, 
then  proceed  against  the  offender  with  rigor, 
that  others  may  take  warning.  For  as  it  is 
wrong  to  condemn  hastily  and  rashly,  so  not 
to  punish  manifest  offenses  is  to  open  the  way 
to  others,  and  embolden  them  to  offend. 

"  Rebuke,"  he  says,  to  show  that  it  is  not  to  be 
done  lightly,  but  with  severity.  For  thus  others 
will  be  deterred.  How  is  it  then  that  Christ 
says,  "  Go  and  tell  him  his  fault  between  him 
and  thee  alone,  if  one  sin  against  thee."  (Matt, 
xviii.  15.)  But  Christ  Himself  permits  him  to  be 
censured  in  the  Church.  What  then?  is  it  not  a 
greater  scandal,  that  one  should  be  rebuked  be- 
fore all?  How  so?  For  it  is  a  much  greater 
scandal,  that  the  offense  should  be  known,  and  not 
the  punishment.  For  as  when  sinners  go  unpun- 
ished, many  commit  crimes ;  so  when  they  are 
punished,  many  are  made  better.  God  Himself 
acted  in  this  manner.  He  brought  forth  Pha- 
raoh, and  punished  him  openly.  And  Nebu- 
chadnezzar too,  and  many  others,  both  cities 
and  individuals,  we  see  visited  with  punishment. 
Paul  therefore  would  have  all  stand  in  awe  of 
their  Bishop,  and  sets  him  over  all. 

And  because  many  judgments  are  formed 
upon  suspicion,  there  ought,  he  says,  to  be 
witnesses,  and  men  to  convict  the  offender 
according  to  the  ancient  law.  "  At  the  mouth 
of  two  or  three  witnesses  shall  every  matter  be 
established.  Against  an  eider  receive  not  an 
accusation."  (Deut.  xix.  15.)  He  does  not 
say,  "do  not  condemn,"  but  "receive  not  an 
accusation,"  bring  him  not  to  judgment  at  all. 
But  what  if  the  two  witnesses  are  false  ?  This 
rarely  happens,  and  it  may  be  discovered  upon 
examination  on  the  trial.  For  since  offenses 
are  committed  in  secret,  we  ought  to  be  satis- 
fied with  two  witnesses,  and  this  is  sufficient 
proof  of  investigation. 

But  what  if  the  offenses  be  notorious,  and  yet 
there  are  no  witnesses,  only  a  strong  suspicion  ? 
It  has  been  said  above  that  he  ought  "  to  have 
a  good  report  of  them  which  are  without."  ( 1 
Tim.  111.  7.) 

Let  us  therefore  love  God  with  fear.  The  law 
indeed  is  not  made  for  a  righteous  man ;  but  since 
the  greater  part  are  virtuous  from  constraint 
rather  than  from  choice,  the  principle  of  fear 
is  of  great  advantage  to  them  in  eradicating 
their  desires.  Let  us  therefore  listen  to  the 
threatenings  of  hell  fire,  that  we  may  be  ben- 
efited by  the  wholesome  fear  of  it.  For  if  God, 
intending  to  cast  sinners  into  it,  had  not  previ- 
ously threatened  them  with  it,  many  would  have 
plunged  into  it.     For,  if  with  this  terror  agitat- 


462 


WORKS   OF   ST.    CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  XV. 


ing  our  souls,  some  sin  as  readily  as  if  there 
were  no  such  thing  in  existence,  what  enormities 
should  we  not  have  committed,  if  it  had  not  been 
declared  and  threatened?  So  that,  as  I  have 
ever  said,  the  threatenings  of  hell  show  the  care 
of  God  for  us  no  less  than  the  promises  of  heaven. 
For  the  threat  cooperates  with  the  promise,  and 
drives  men  into  the  kingdom  by  means  of  terror. 
Let  us  not  think  it  a  matter  of  cruelty,  but  of 
pity  and  mercy ;  of  God's  concern  and  love  for 
us.  If  in  the  days  of  Jonah  the  destruction  of 
Nineveh  had  not  been  threatened,  that  destruc- 
tion had  not  been  averted.  Nineveh  would  not 
have  stood  but  for  the  threat,  "  Nineveh  shall 
be  overthrown."  (Jonah  iii.  4.)  And  if  hell 
had  not  been  threatened,  we  should  all  have 
fallen  into  hell.  If  the  fire  had  not  been  de- 
nounced, no  one  would  have  escaped  the  fire. 
God  declares  that  He  will  do  that  which  He 
desires  not  to  do,  that  He  may  do  that  which 
He  desires  to  do.  He  willeth  not  the  death  of 
a  sinner,  and  therefore  He  threatens  the  sinner 
with  death,  that  He  may  not  have  to  inflict 
death.  And  not  only  has  He  spoken  the  word, 
but  He  has  exhibited  the  thing  itself,  that  we 
may  escape  it.  And  lest  it  should  be  supposed 
to  be  a  mere  threat,  He  has  manifested  the 
reality  of  it  by  what  He  has  already  done  on 
earth.  Dost  thou  not  see  in  the  flood  a  symbol 
of  hell,  in  that  rain  of  all-destroying  water  an 
image  of  the  all-devouring  fire  ? 1  "  For  as  it 
was  in  the  days  of  Noah,"  He  says,  "they 
were  marrying  and  giving  in  marriage  "  (Matt. 
xxiv.  38),  so  is  it  even  now.  It  was  then  pre- 
dicted 2  long  before  it  took  place,  and  it  is  now 
predicted  four  hundred  years  or  more  before- 
hand : 3  but  no  one  heeds  it.  It  is  looked  upon 
as  a  mere  fable,  as  a  matter  of  derision ;  no  one 
fears  it,  no  one  weeps  or  beats  his  breast  at  the 
thought  of  it.  The  stream  of  fire  is  boiling  up, 
the  flame  is  kindled,  and  we  are  laughing,  taking 
our  pleasure,  and  sinning  without  fear.  No  one 
even  bears  in  mind  That  Day.  No  one  consid- 
ers that  present  things  are  passing  away,  and 
that  they  are  but  temporal,  though  events  are 
every  day  crying  out  and  uttering  a  fearful  voice. 
The  untimely  deaths,  the  changes  that  take 
place  in  our  lives,  our  own  infirmities  and  dis- 
eases, fail  to  instruct  us.  And  not  only  in  our 
own  bodies  are  these  changes  visible,  but  in  the 
elements  themselves.  Every  day  in  our  differ- 
ent ages  we  experience  a  kind  of  death,  and  in 
every  case  instability  is  the  characteristic  of 
things  we  see.  Neither  winter,  nor  summer,  nor 
spring,  nor  autumn,  is  permanent ;  all  are  run- 


1  The  construction  is  too  involved  for  such  a  passage:  a  slight 
change  would  refer  the  whole  latter  clause  to  the  Judgment,  or  to 
the  destruction  of  the  cities  of  the  plain. 

1  i.e.  the  deluge. 

8  See  Horn.  xx.  on  St.  Matt,  fin.,  where  he  says  the  end  of  the 
world  might  now  come  at  any  time. 


ning,  flying,  and  flowing  past.     Why  should  I 
speak  of  fading  flowers,  of  dignities,  of  kings 
that  are  to-day,  and  to-morrow  cease  to  be,  of 
rich  men,  of  magnificent  houses,  of  night  and 
day,  of  the  sun  and  the  moon?  for  the  moon 
wanes,  and  the  sun  is  sometimes  eclipsed,  and 
often  darkened  with  clouds  ?    Of  things  visible, 
in  short,  is  there  anything  that  endures  for  ever? 
Nothing  !     No,  nor  anything  in  us  but  the  soul, 
and   that   we   neglect.      Of    things   subject   to 
change  we  take  abundant  care,  as  if  they  were 
permanent :  but  that  which  is  to  endure  for  ever 
we   neglect,  as   if  it  were  soon  to  pass  away. 
Some  one  is  enabled  to  perform  mighty  actions, 
but  they  shall  last  till  to-morrow,  and  then  he 
perishes,  as  we  see  in  the  instances  of  those 
who  have  had  yet  greater  power,  and  are  now 
to  be  seen  no  more.     Life  is  a  dream,  and  a 
scene ;  and  as  on  the  stage  when  the  scene  is 
shifted  the  various  pageants  disappear,  and  as 
dreams   flit  away  when  the  sunbeams   rise,  so 
here  when  the  end  comes,  whether  the  universal 
or  that  of  each  one,  all  is  dissolved  and  vanishes 
away.     The  tree  that  you  have  planted  remains, 
and  the  house  that  you  have  built,  it  too  stands 
on.     But  the  planter  and  the  builder  go  away, 
and  perish.     Yet  these  things  happen  without 
our  regarding  it,  and  we  live  on  in  luxury  and 
pleasure,  and  are  ever  furnishing  ourselves  with 
such  things,  as  if  we  were  immortal. 

Hear  what  Solomon  says,  who  knew  the  pres- 
ent world  by  actual  experience.  "I  builded 
me  houses,  I  planted  me  vineyards,  I  made 
me  gardens,  and  orchards  and  pools  of 
water.  I  gathered  me  also  silver  and  gold. 
I  gat  myself  men-singers,  and  women-sing- 
ers, and  flocks,  and  herds."  (Eccles.  ii.  4, 
5.)  There  was  no  one  who  lived  in  greater 
luxury,  or  higher  glory.  There  was  no  one  so 
wise  or  so  powerful,  no  one  who  saw  all  things 
so  succeeding  to  his  heart's  desire.  What  then? 
He  had  no  enjoyment  from  all  these  things. 
What  after  all  does  he  say  of  it  himself?  "  Van- 
ity of  vanities,  all  is  vanity."  (Eccles.  xii.  8.) 
Vanity  not  simply  but  superlatively.  Let  us  be- 
lieve him,  and  lay  hold  on  that  in  which  there 
is  no  vanity,  in  which  there-  is  truth  ;  and  what 
is  based  upon  a  solid  rock,  where  there  is  no  old 
age,  nor  decline,  but  all  things  bloom  and  flour- 
ish, without  decay,  or  waxing  old,  or  approaching 
dissolution.  Let  us,  I  beseech  you,  love  God 
with  genuine  affection,  not  from  fear  of  hell,  but 
from  desire  of  the  kingdom.  For  what  is  com- 
parable to  seeing  Christ  ?  Surely  nothing  ! 
What  to  the  enjoyment  of  those  good  things? 
Surely  nothing  !  Well  may  there  be  nothing ; 
for  "  eye  hath  not  seen,  nor  ear  heard,  neither 
have  entered  into  the  heart  of  man  the  things 
which  God  hath  prepared  for  them  that  love 
Him."     (1  Cor.  ii.  9.)     Let  us  be  anxious  to 


Homily  XV.] 


HOMILIES   ON   TIMOTHY. 


463 


obtain  those  things,  and  let  us  despise  all  these. 
Are  we  not  continually  complaining  that  human 
life  is  nothing  ?  Why  art  thou  solicitous  for  what 
is  nothing  ?  Why  dost  thou  sustain  such  toils, 
for  what  is  nothing?  Thou  seest  splendid  houses, 
does  the  sight  of  them  delude  thee  ?  Look  up 
to  heaven.  Raise  thy  view  from  pillars  of  stone 
to  that  beautiful  fabric,  compared  with  which 
the  others  are  as  the  works  of  ants  and  pismires. 
I^earn  philosophy  from  that  spectacle,  ascend 
to  heavenly  things,  and  look  thence  upon  our 
splendid  buildings,  and  see  that  they  are  noth- 
ing, the  mere  toys  of  little  children.  Seest  thou 
not  how  much  finer,  how  much  lighter,  how 
much  purer,  how  much  more  translucent,  is  the 
air  the  higher  thou  ascendest?  There  have 
they  that  do  alms  their  mansions  and  their  tab- 
ernacles. These  that  are  here  are  dissolved  at 
the  resurrection,  or  rather  before  the  resurrec- 
tion destroyed  by  the  stroke  of  time.  Nay, 
often  in  their  most  flourishing  state  and  period 
an  earthquake  overthrows,  or  fire  entirely  ruins 
them.  For  not  only  the  bodies  of  men,  but 
their  very  buildings  are  liable  to  untimely 
deaths.  Nay,  sometimes  things  decayed  by 
time  stand  firm  under  the  shock  of  an  earth- 
quake, whilst  glittering  edifices,  firmly  fixed, 
and  newly  constructed,  are  struck  but  by  light- 
ning and  perish.  And  this,  I  believe,  is  the 
interposition  of  God,  that  we  may  not  take 
pride  in  'our  buildings. 

Would  you  again  have  another  ground  for 
cheerfulness?  Go  to  the  public  buildings,  in 
which  you  share  equally  with  others.  For  the 
most  magnificent  private  houses,  after  all,  are 
less  splendid  than  the  public  edifices.  There 
you  may  remain,  as  long  as  you  please.  They 
belong  to  you  as  much  as  to  others,  since  they 
are  common  to  you  with  others ;  they  are  com- 
mon, and  not  private.  But  those,  you  say,  de- 
light you  not.  They  delight  you  not,  partly 
because  you  are  familiar  with  them,  and  partly 
from  your  covetousness.  So  the  pleasantness  is 
not  in  the  beauty,  but  in  the  appropriating  !  So 
the  pleasure  is  in  greediness,  and  in  the  wish  to 
make  every  man's  goods  your  own  !  How  long 
are  we  to  be  nailed  to  these  things  ?  How  long 
are  we  to  be  fastened  to  the  earth,  and  grovel, 
like  worms,  in  the  dirt?  God  hath  given  us  a 
body  of  earth,  that  we  might  carry  it  with  us  up 
to  heaven,  not  that  we  should  draw  our  soul 
down  with  it  to  earth.  Earthy  it  is,  but  if  we 
please,  it  may  be  heavenly.  See  how  highly 
God  has  honored  us,  in  committing  to  us  so 
excellent  a  frame.  I  made  heaven  and  earth, 
He  says,  and  to  you  I  give  the  power  of  creation. 
Make  your  earth  heaven.  For  it  is  in  thy  power. 
"  I  am  He  that  maketh  and  transformeth  all 
things"  (Amos  v.  8,  Sept.),  saith  God  of  Him- 
self.     And  He  hath   given   to   men   a   similar 


power ;  as  a  painter,  being  an  affectionate  father, 
teaches  his  own  art  to  his  son.  I  formed  thy 
body  beautiful,  he  says,  but  I  give  thee  the  power 
of  forming  something  better.  Make  thy  soul 
beautiful.  I  said,  "  Let  the  earth  bring  forth 
grass,  and  every  fruitful  tree."  (Tien.  i.  11.) 
Do  thou  also  say,  Let  this  earth  *  bring  forth 
its  proper  fruit,  and  what  thou  wiliest  to  pro- 
duce will  be  produced.  "  I  make  the  summer 
and  the  cloud.  I  create  the  lightning  and 
the  wind."  (Amos  iv.  13;  Ps.  lxxiv.  17.)  I 
formed  the  dragon,  that  is,  the  devil,2  to  make 
sport  with  him.  (Ps.  civ.  26.)  Nor  have  I 
grudged  thee  the  like  power.  Thou,  if  thou 
wilt,  canst  sport  with  him,  and  bind  him  as 
thou  wouldest  a  sparrow.  I  make  the  sun  to 
rise  upon  the  evil  and  the  good  :  do  thou  imitate 
Me,  by  imparting  of  that  is  thine  to  the  good 
and  the  evil.  When  mocked  I  bear  with  it,  and 
do  good  to  those  who  mock  Me  :  do  thou  imi- 
tate Me,  as  thou  canst.  I  do  good,  not  to  be 
requited  ;  do  thou  imitate  Me,  and  do  good,  not 
to  be  repaid.  I  have  lighted  luminaries  in  the 
heavens.  Do  thou  light  others  brighter  than 
these,  for  thou  canst,  by  enlightening  those  that 
are  in  error.  For  to  know  Me  is  a  greater 
benefit  than  to  behold  the  sun.  Thou  canst  not 
create  a  man,  but  thou  canst  make  him  just  and 
acceptable  to  God.  I  formed  his  substance,  do 
thou  beautify  his  will.  See  how  I  love  thee,  and 
have  given  thee  the  power  in  the  greater  things. 

Beloved,  see  how  we  are  honored  !  yet  some 
are  so  unreasonable  and  so  ungrateful  as  to  say, 
"  Why  are  we  endowed  with  free  will  ?  "  But 
how  in  all  the  particulars  which  we  have  men- 
tioned could  we  have  imitated  God,  if  there  had 
been  no  free  will?  I  rule  Angels,  He  says,  and 
so  dost  thou,  through  Him  who  is  the  First- 
fruits.  (1  Cor.  xv.  23.)  I  sit  on  a  royal  throne, 
and  thou  art  seated  with  Me  in  Him  who  is  the 
First-fruits.  As  it  is  said,  "  He  hath  raised  us 
up  together  and  made  us  sit  together  in  heavenly 
places  in  Christ  Jesus."  (Eph.  ii.  6.)  Through 
Him  who  is  the  First-fruits,  Cherubim  and  Sera- 
phim adore  thee,  with  all  the  heavenly  hostr 
principalities  and  powers,  thrones  and  domin- 
ions. Disparage  not  thy  body,  to  which  such 
high  honors  appertain,  that  the  unbodied  Powers 
tremble  at  it. 

But  what  shall  I  say?  It  is  not  in  this  way 
only  that  I  have  shown  My  love  to  thee,  but  by 
what  I  have  suffered.  For  thee  I  was  spit  upon, 
I  was  scourged.  I  emptied  myself  of  glory,  I 
left  My  Father  and  came  to  thee,  who  dost  hate 
Me,  and  turn  from  Me,  and  art  loath  to  hear 
My  Name.  I  pursued  thee,  I  ran  after  thee, 
that  I  might  overtake  thee.    I  united  and  joined 


1  i.e.  the  body. 

*  So  St.  Aug.  on  Ps.  103.    Vulg.  taking  "  formed  "  of  his  degrada- 
tion. 


464 


WORKS   OF   ST.    CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  XVI. 


thee  to  myself,  "eat  Me,  drink  Me,"  I  skid. 
Above  I  hold  thee,  and  below  I  embrace  thee. 
Is  it  not  enough  for  thee  that  I  have  thy  First- 
fruits  above  ?  Doth  not  this  satisfy  thy  affection  ? 
I  descended  below :  I  not  only  am  mingled  with 
thee,  I  am  entwined  in  thee.  I  am  masticated,1 
broken  into  minute  particles,  that  the  inter- 
spersion,*  and  commixture,  and  union  may  be 
more  complete.    Things  united  remain  yet  in 


their  own  limits,  but  I  am  interwoven  with  thee. 
I  would  have  no  more  any  division  between  us. 
I  wiH  that  we  both  be  one. 

Therefore  knowing  these  things  and  remem- 
bering His  abundant  care  for  us,  let  us  do  all 
things  which  may  prove  us  not  unworthy  of  His 
great  gift,  which  God  grant  that  we  may  all 
obtain,  through  the  grace  and  lovingkindness 
of  Christ  Jesus  our  Lord,  with  whom,  &c. 


HOMILY  XVI. 


1  Timothy  v.  21-23. 


"  I  charge  thee  before  God  and  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ 
and  the  elect  angels,  that  thou  observe  these  things 
without  preferring  one  before  another,  doing  noth- 
ing by  partiality.  Lay  hands  hastily  on  no  man, 
neither  be  partaker  of  other  men's  sins :  keep  thyself 
pure.  Drink  no  longer  water,  but  use  a  little  wine 
for  thy  stomach's  sake  and  thine  often  infirmities." 

Having  spoken  of  Bishops  and  Deacons,  of 
men,  and  women,  of  widows  and  elders,  and 
of  all  others,  and  having  shown  how  great  was 
tlie  authority  of  a  Bishop,  now  he  was  speaking 
of  judgment,  he  has  added,  "  I  charge  thee  be- 
fore God  and  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  and  the 
elect  angels,  that  thou  observe  these  things 
without  preferring  one  before  another,  doing 
nothing  by  partiality."  Thus  fearfully  he  charges 
him.  For  though  Timothy  was  his  beloved  son, 
he  did  not  therefore  stand  in  awe  of  him.  For 
as  he  was  not  ashamed  to  say  of  himself,  "  Lest 
by  any  means  when  I  have  preached  to  others, 
I  myself  should  be  a  cast-away  "  ( 1  Cor.  ix.  27)  ; 
much  less  would  he  be  afraid  or  ashamed  in  the 
case,  of  Timothy.  He  called  the  Father  and  the 
Son  to  witness.  But  wherefore  the  elect  Angels  ? 
From  great  moderation,  as  Moses  said,  "  I  call 
heaven  and  earth  to  witness  "  (Deut.  iv.  26)  ; 
and  again,  "  Hear  ye,  O  mountains,  and  strong 
foundations  of  the  earth."  (Mic.  vi.  2.)  He 
calls  the  Father  and  the  Son  to  witness  what  he 
has  said,  making  his  appeal  to  Them  against 
that  future  Day,  that  if  anything  should  be  done 
that  ought  not  to  be  done,  he  was  clear  from 
the  guilt  of  it. 

•  "  That  thou  observe  these  things  without  pre- 
ferring one  before  another,  doing  nothing  by 
partiality."  That  is,  that  thou  deal  impartially 
and  equally  between  those  who  are  upon  trial 
and  are  to  be  judged  by  thee,  that  no  one  may 
pre-occupy  thy  mind,  or  gain  thee  over  to  his 
side  beforehand. 


rpwyofiai. 


avatcpaaif. 


But  who  are  the  elect  Angels?  It  is  because 
there  are  some  not  elect.  As  Jacob  calls  to 
witness  God  and  the  heap  (Gen.  xxxi.  45),  so 
we  often  take  at  once  superior  and  inferior  per- 
sons to  witness ;  so  great  a  thing  is  testimony. 
As  if  he  had  said,  I  call  to  witness  God  and  His 
Son  and  His  servants,  that  I  have  charged  thee  : 
so  before  them  I  charge  thee.  He  impresses 
Timothy  with  fear ;  after  which  he  adds,  what 
was  most  vital,8  and  bears  most  on  the  main- 
tenance of  the  Church,  the  matter  of  Ordina- 
tions. "Lay  hands,"  he  says,  "suddenly  on  no 
man,  neither  be  partaker  of  other  men's  sins." 
What  is  "  suddenly  "  ?  Not  upon  a  first,  nor  a 
second,  nor  a  third  trial,  but  after  frequent  and 
strict  examination  and  circumspection.  For  it 
is  an  affair  of  no  common  peril.  For  thou  wilt 
be  responsible  for  the  sins  committed  by  him, 
as  well  his  past  as  his  future  sins,  because  thou 
hast  delegated  to  him  this  power.  For  if  thou 
overlook  the  past  unduly,  thou  art  answerable 
for  the  future  also,  as  being  the  cause  of  them, 
by  placing  him  in  that  station,  and  of  the  past 
too,  for  not  leaving  him  to  mourn  over  them, 
and  to  be  in  compunction.  For  as  thou  art  a 
partaker  of  his  good  actions,  so  art  thou  of  his 
sins. 

"  Keep  thyself  pure."  This  he  says  with  ref- 
erence to  chastity. 

"  Drink  no  longer  water,  but  use  a  little  wine 
for  thy  stomach's  sake  and  thy  often  infirmities." 
If  one  who  had  practiced  fasting  to  such  an  ex- 
tent, and  used  only  water,  so  long  that  he  had 
brought  on  "  infirmities  "  and  "  frequent  infirmi- 
ties," is  thus  commanded  to  be  chaste,  and  does 
not  refuse  the  admonition,  much  less  ought  we 
to  be  offended  when  we  receive  an  admonition 
from  any  one.  But  why  did  not  Paul  restore 
strength  to  his  stomach  ?  Not  because  he  could 
not  —  for  he  whose  garment  had  raised  the  dead 

»  Or  "  seasonable." 


Homily  XVI.] 


HOMILIES   ON   TIMOTHY. 


465 


was  clearly  able  to  do  this  too,  —  but  because  he 
had  a  design  of  importance  in  withholding  such 
aid.  What  then  was  his  purpose  ? l  That  even 
now,  if  we  see  great  and  virtuous  men  afflicted 
with  infirmities,  we  may  not  be  offended,  for  this 
was  a  profitable  visitation.  If  indeed  to  Paul 
himself  a  "  messenger  of  Satan  "  was  sent  that 
he  should  not  be  "  exalted  above  measure  " 
(2  Cor.  xii.  11),  much  more  might  it  be  so  with 
Timothy.  For  the  miracles  he  wrought  were 
enough  to  have  rendered  him  arrogant.  For 
this  reason  he  is  left  to  be  subject  to  the  rules  of 
medicine,  that  he  may  be  humbled,  and  others 
may  not  be  offended,  but  may  learn  that  they 
who  performed  such  excellent  actions  were  men 
of  the  same  nature  as  themselves.  In  other  re- 
spects also  Timothy  seems  to  have  been  subject 
to  disease,  which  is  implied  by  that  expression, 
"  Thy  often  infirmities,"  as  well  of  other  parts 
as  of  the  stomach.  He  does  not  however  allow 
him  to  indulge  freely  in  wine,  but  as  much  as 
was  for  health  and  not  for  luxury.2 

Ver.  24.  "  Some  men's  sins  are  open  before- 
hand, going  before  to  judgment ;  and  some  they 
follow  after." 

In  speaking  of  ordination,  he  had  said,  "  Be 
not  partaker  of  other  men's  sins."  But  what, 
he  might  say,  if  I  be  ignorant  of  them  ?  Why, 
"some  men's  sins  are  open  beforehand,  going 
before  them  to  judgment,  and  some  they  follow 
after."  Some  men's,  he  means,  are  manifest, 
because  they  go  before,  whilst  others'  are  un- 
known, because  they  follow  after. 

Ver.  25.  "Likewise  also  the  good  works  of 
some  are  manifest  beforehand,  and  they  that  are 
otherwise  cannot  be  hid." 

Chap.  vi.  ver.  1.  "  Let  as  many  servants  as  are 
under  the  yoke  count  their  masters  worthy  of  all 
honor,  that  the  Name  of  God  and  His  doctrine 
be  not  blasphemed." 

Let  them  count  them  "  worthy  of  all  honor," 
he  says  ;  for  do  not  suppose,  because  thou  art  a  be- 
liever, that  thou  art  therefore  a  free  man :  since 
thy  freedom  is  to  serve  the  more  faithfully.  For 
if  the  unbeliever  sees  slaves  conducting  them- 
selves insolently  on  account  of  their  faith,  he  will 
blaspheme,  as  if  the  Doctrine  produced  insubor- 
dination. But  when  he  sees  them  obedient,  he 
will  be  more  inclined  to  believe,  and  will  the 
rather  attend  to  our  words.  But  God,  and  the 
Gospel  we  preach,  will  be  blasphemed,  if  they 
are  disobedient.  But  what  if  their  own  master 
be  an  unbeliever  ?  Even  in  that  case  they  ought 
to  submit,  for  God's  Name's  sake. 

Ver.  2.  "And  they  that  have  believing  mas- 
ters, let  them  not  despise  them  because  they  are 

1  A  Paris  MS.  adds,  "  in  not  curing  him,"  and  is  stated  to  vary 
much  in  this  passage,  but  its  readings  are  not  given. 

3  This  whole  passage  is  treated  more  at  length  in  the  first  Hom- 
ily on  the  Statues,  where  most  of  these  remarks  are  expanded  and 
illustrated. 


brethren,  but  rather  do  them  service,  because 
they  are  faithful  and  beloved  partakers  of  the 
benefit." 

As  though  he  had  said,  If  ye  are  thought 
worthy  of  so  great  a  benefit,  as  to  have  ypur 
masters  for  your  brethren,  on  this  account  ye 
ought  more  especially  to  submit. 

"Going  before  to  judgment."  This  he  had 
said,  implying  that  of  evil  actions  here  some  are 
concealed,  and  some  are  not ;  but  there  neither 
the  good  nor  the  bad  can  be  concealed.  And 
what  is  that  going  before  to  judgment  ?  When 
one  commits  offenses  that  already  condemn  him, 
or  when  he  is  incorrigible,  and  when  one  thinks 
to  set  him  right  and  cannot  succeed.  What 
then?  What  is  the  use  of  mentioning  this? 
Because  if  here  any  escape  detection,  they  will 
not  hereafter.  There  all  things  are  laid  open ; 
and  this  is  the  greatest  consolation  to  those  who 
do  well. 

Then  because  he  had  said,  "  Do  nothing  by 
partiality,"  as  if  under  the  necessity  of  interpret- 
ing it,  he  adds,  "  As  many  servants  as  are  under 
the  yoke."  But  you  will  say,  What  has  a  Bishop 
to  do  with  this  ?  Much  surely,  for  it  is  his  office 
to  exhort  and  to  teach  these  too.  And  here  he 
makes  excellent  regulations  with  respect  to  them. 
For  we  see  him  everywhere  commanding  the 
servants  rather  than  their  masters,  showing  them 
the  ways  of  submission,  and  treating  them  with 
great  regard.8  He  exhorts  them  therefore  to 
submit  with  great  meekness.  But  the  masters 
he  recommends  to  forbear  the  use  of  terror. 
"Forbearing  threatening"  (Eph.  vi.  9),  he 
says.  And  why  does  he  thus  command?  In 
the  case  of  unbelievers,  naturally,  because  it 
would  have  been  unreasonable  to  address  those 
who  would  pay  no  heed  to  him ;  but  where  be- 
lievers were  concerned,  what  was  his  reason? 
Because  masters  contribute  greater  benefits  to 
their  servants,  than  servants  to  their  masters. 
For  the  former  furnish  the  money  to  purchase 
for  them  sufficient  food  and  clothing ;  and  be- 
stow much  care  upon  them  in  other  respects,  so 
that  the  masters  pay  them  the  larger  service, 
which  is  here  intimated,  when  he  says,  "  they 
are  faithful  and  beloved,  partakers  of  the  bene- 
fit." 4  They  suffer  much  toil  and  trouble  for  your 
repose,  ought  they  not  in  return  to  receive  much 
honor  from  their  servants  ? 

Moral.  But  if  he  exhorts  servants  to  render 
such  implicit  obedience,  consider  what  ought 
to  be  our  disposition  towards  our  Master,  who 
brought  us  into  existence  out  of  nothing,  and 
who  feeds  and  clothes  us.  If  in  no  other  way 
then,  let  us  render  Him  service  at  least  as  our 


*  Or  making  a  great  point  of  them,  i.e.  of  the  ways  of  submis- 
sion. 

4  The  words  oi  r^«  «v*pyf<riav  avrtkafiflavotitvoi  may  mean, 
"  such  as  set  themselves  to  confer  benefits." 


466 


WORKS   OF   ST.   CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  XVI. 


servants  render  it  to  us.  Do  not  they  order 
their  whole  lives  to  afford  rest  to  their  masters, 
and  is  it  not  their  work  and  their  life  to  take 
care  of  their  concerns?  Are  they  not  all  day 
long  engaged  in  their  masters'  work,  and  only  a 
small  portion  of  the  evening  in  their  own  ?  But 
we,  on  the  contrary,  are  ever  engaged  in  our  own 
affairs,  in  our  Master's  hardly  at  all,  and  that 
too,  though  He  needs  not  our  services,  as  mas- 
ters need  those  of  their  servants,  but  those  very 
acts  redound  to  our  own  benefit.  In  their  case 
the  master  is  benefited  by  the  ministry  of  the 
servant,  but  in  ours  the  ministry  of  the  servant 
profits  not  the  Master,  but  is  beneficial  on  the 
other  hand  to  the  servant.  As  the  Psalmist  says, 
"My  goods  are  nothing  unto  Thee."  (Ps.  xvi. 
2.)  For  say,  what  advantage  is  it  to  God,  that 
f  I  am  just,  or  what  injury,  that  I  am  unjust  ?  Is 
not  His  nature  incorruptible,  incapable  of  injury, 
superior  to  all  suffering  ?  Servants  having  noth- 
ing of  their  own,  all  is  their  masters',  however 
rich  they  may  be.  But  we  have  many  things 
of  our  own. 

And  it  is  not  merely  so  great  honor,1  that  we 
enjoy  from  the  King  of  the  universe.  What 
master  ever  gave  his  own  son  for  his  servant? 
No  one,  but  all  would  rather  choose  to  give  their 
servants  for  their  sons.  Here  on  the  contrary, 
"  He  spared  not  His  own  Son,  but  gave  Him  up 
for  us  all,"  for  His  enemies  who  hated  Him. 
Servants,  though  very  hard  service  is  exacted  of 
them,  are  not  impatient ;  at  least,  not  the  well- 
disposed.  But  how  many  times  do  we  utter 
discontent?2  The  master  promises  to  his  ser- 
vants nothing  like  what  God  promises  to  us; 
but  what  ?  Freedom  here,  which  is  often  worse 
than  bondage ;  for  it  is  often  embittered  by 
famine  beyond  slavery  itself.3  Yet  this  is  their 
greatest  boon.  But  with  God  there  is  nothing 
temporal,  nothing  mortal ;  but  what  ?  wouldest 
thou  learn  ?  Listen  then,  He  says,  "  Henceforth 
I  call  you  not  servants.  Ye  are  my  friends." 
(John  xv.  13,  14.) 

Beloved,  let  us  be  ashamed,  let  us  fear.  Let 
us  only  serve  our  Master,  as  our  servants  serve 
us.  Rather  not  even4  the  smallest  portion  of 
service  do  we  render  !  Necessity  makes  them 
philosophers.  They  have  only  food  and  lodg- 
ing ;  but  we,  possessing  much  and  expecting 
more,  insult  our  Benefactor  with  our  luxury.  If 
from  nothing  else,  from  them  at  least  let  us  learn 
the  rules  of  philosophy.  The  Scripture  is  wont 
to  send  men  not  even  to  servants,  but  to  irra- 


1  Or,  "  and  it  is  not  without  reason  that  we  enjoy  so  great 
honor  " :  and  so  Old  Lat.  and  Ben.  that  in  the  text  seems  more  in- 
telligible. The  other  might  be  explained  by  the  sequel.  See  Rom. 
viii.  32. 

*  anoSvaneTOvixfy. 

*  The  slaves,  as  he  had  said  before,  were  wholly  provided  for  by 
their  masters,  and  so  suffer  less  in  a  scarcity  than  if  they  had  been 
independent. 

4  The  negative  is  added  in  Colb.  and  B.    The  sense  requires  it. 


tional  creatures,  as  when  it  bids  us  imitate  the 
bee  and  the  ant.  But  I  advise  you  but  to  imi- 
tate servants :  only  so  much  as  they  do  from 
fear  of  their  masters,  let  us  do  from  the  fear  of 
God ;  for  I  cannot  find  that  you  do  even  this. 
They  receive  many  insults  from  fear  of  us,  and 
endure  them  in  silence  with  the  patience  of 
philosophers.  Justly  or  unjustly  they  are  ex- 
posed to  our  violence,  and  they  do  not  resist, 
but  entreat  us,  though  often  they  have  done 
nothing  wrong.  They  are  contented  to  receive 
no  more  and  often  less  than  they  need ;  with 
straw6  for  their  bed,  and  only  bread  for  their 
food,  they  do  not  complain  or  murmur  at  their 
hard  living,  but  through  fear  of  us  are  restrained 
from  impatience.  When  they  are  intrusted  with 
money,  they  restore  it  all.  For  I  am  not  speak- 
ing of  the  worthless,  but  of  the  moderately  good. 
If  we  threaten  them,  they  are  at  once  awed. 

Is  not  this  philosophy  ?  For  say  not  they  are 
under  necessity,  when  thou  too  art  under  a  neces- 
sity in  the  fear  of  hell.  And  yet  dost  thou  not 
learn  wisdom,  nor  render  to  God  as  much  honor, 
as  thou  receivest  from  thy  servants.  Of  thy 
servants  each  has  the  apartment  assigned  to  him 
by  thy  rules,  and  he  does  not  invade  that  of  his 
neighbor,  nor  do  any  injury  from  a  desire  of 
more  than  he  has.  This  forbearance  the  fear  of 
their  master  enforces  among  domestics,  and  sel- 
dom will  you  see  a  servant  robbing  or  injuring  a 
fellow-servant.  But  among  free  men  it  is  quite 
the  reverse.  We  bite  and  devour  one  another. 
We  fear  not  our  Master :  we  rob  and  plunder 
our  fellow-servants,  we  strike  them  in  His  very 
sight.  This  the  servant  will  not  do ;  if  he 
strikes,  it  is  not  when  his  master  sees  him  ;  if 
he  reviles,  it  is  not  when  his  master  hears  him. 
But  we  dare  do  anything,  though  God  sees  and 
hears  it  all. 

The  fear  of  their  master  is  ever  before  their 
eyes,  the  fear  of  our  Master  never  before  ours. 
Hence  the  subversion  of  all  order,  hence  all  is 
confusion  and  destruction.  And  we  never  take 
into  consideration  the  offenses  we  have  com- 
mitted, but  if  our  servants  do  amiss,  we  call 
them  to  a  rigorous  account  for  everything,  even 
to  the  least  misdemeanor.  I  say  not  this  to 
make  servants  remiss,  but  to  chide  our  supine- 
ness,  to  rouse  us  from  our  sloth,  that  we  may 
serve  our  God  with  as  much  zeal  as  servants  do 
their  master;  our  Maker,  as  faithfully  as  our 
fellow-creatures  6  serve  us,  from  whom  they  have 
received  no  such  gift.  For  they  too  are  free  by 
nature.  To  them  also  it  was  said,  "Let  them 
have  dominion  over  the  fishes."  (Gen.  i.  26.) 
For  this  slavery  is  not  from  nature :  it  is  the 
result  of  some  particular  cause,  or  circumstances. 
Yet,  notwithstanding,  they  pay  us  great  honor ; 


3  <rrt£a£of. 


opoovetou 


Homily  XVII.] 


HOMILIES   ON   TIMOTHY. 


467 


and  we  with  great  strictness  exact  services  from 
them,  whilst  to  God  we  hardly  render  the  small- 
est portion,  though  the  advantage  of  it  would 
redound  to  ourselves.  For  the  more  zealously 
we  serve  God,  the  greater  gainers  we  shall  be. 
I^t  us  not  then  deprive  ourselves  of  such  im- 
portant benefits.     For  God  is  self-sufficient,  and 


wants  nothing ;  the  recompense  and  the  advan- 
tage reverts  altogether  to  us.  Let  us  therefore, 
I  beseech  you,  be  so  affected,  as  serving  not 
God  but  ourselves,  and  with  fear  and  trembling 
let  us  serve  Him,  that  we  may  obtain  the  prom- 
!  ised  blessings,  through  Jesus  Christ  our  Lord, 
with  whom,  &c. 


HOMILY    XVII. 


1  Timothy  vi.  2-7. 


"  These  things  teach  and  exhort.  If  any  man  teach 
otherwise,  and  consent  not  to  wholesome  words, 
even  the  words  of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  and  to  the 
doctrine  which  is  according  to  godliness;  he  is 
proud,  knowing  nothing,  but  doting  about  questions 
and  strifes  of  words,  whereof  cometh  envy,  strife, 
railings,  evil  surmisings,  perverse  disputings  of  men 
of  corrupt  minds,  and  destitute  of  the  truth,  suppos- 
ing that  gain  is  godliness :  from  such  withdraw  thy- 
self. But  godliness  with  contentment  is  great  gain. 
For  we  brought  nothing  into  this  world,  and  it  is 
certain  we  can  carry  nothing  out." 

A  teacher  has  need  not  only  of  authority,  but 
of  gentleness,  and  not  only  of  gentleness,  but 
of  authority.  And  all  these  the  blessed  Paul 
teaches,  at  one  time  saying,  "  These  things  com- 
mand and  teach  "  (1  Tim.  iv.  11)  ;  at  another, 
"These  things  teach  and  exhort."1  For  if  phy- 
sicians entreat  the  sick,  not  for  the  benefit  of 
their  own  health,  but  that  they  may  relieve  their 
sickness,  and  restore  their  prostrate  strength, 
much  more  ought  we  to  observe  this  method,  of 
entreating  those  whom  we  teach.  For  the  blessed 
Paul  does  not  refuse  to  be  their  servant :  "  We 
preach  not  ourselves,"  he  says,  "  but  Christ 
Jesus  the  Lord ;  and  ourselves  your  servants  for 
Jesus'  sake"  (2  Cor.  iv.  5)  ;  and  again,  "All 
things  are  yours,  whether  Paul  or  Apollos."  (1 
Cor.  iii.  12.)  And  in  this  service  he  serves  with 
alacrity,  for  it  is  not  slavery,  but  superior  to 
freedom.  For  He  says,  "  Whoever  committeth 
sin  is  the  servant  of  sin."     (John  viii.  34.) 

"  If  any  man  teach  otherwise,  and  consent  not 
to  wholesome  words,  even  the  words  of  our 
I/Ord  Jesus  Christ,  and  to  the  doctrine  which  is 
according  to  godliness,  he  is  proud,  knowing 
nothing."  Presumption  therefore  arises  not 
from  knowledge,  but  from  "knowing  nothing." 
For  he  that  knows  the  doctrines  of  godliness  is 
also  the  most  disposed  to  moderation.  He  who 
knows  sound  words,  is  not  unsound.  For  what 
inflammation  is  in  the  body,  that  pride  is  in  the 
soul.    And  as  we  do  not  in  the  first  case  say  that 


the  inflamed  part  is  sound,  so  neither  do  we 
here  consider  the  arrogant.  It  is  possible  then 
to  be  knowing,  and  yet  to  know  nothing.  For 
he  that  knows  not  what  he  ought  to  know,  knows 
nothing.  And  that  pride  arises  from  knowing 
nothing  is  manifest  from  hence.  Christ  "  made 
Himself  of  no  reputation  "  (Phil.  ii.  7),  he  there- 
fore who  knows  this  will  not  be  high-minded. 
Man  hath  nothing  except  from  God,  therefore 
he  will  not  be  high-minded.  "For  what  hast 
thou  that  thou  didst  not  receive  ?  "  ( 1  Cor.  iv. 
7.)  He  washed  the  feet  of  His  disciples,  how 
can  he  who  knows  this  be  setting  himself  up? 
Therefore  He  says,  "When  ye  have  done  all, 
say  we  are  unprofitable  servants."  (Luke  xvii. 
10.)  The  publican  was  accepted  only  from  his 
humility,  the  Pharisee  perished  by  his  boastful- 
ness.  He  who  is  puffed  up  knoweth  none  of 
these  things.  Again,  Christ  Himself  says,  "  If  I 
have  spoken  evil,  bear  witness  of  the  evil ;  but 
!  if  well,  why  smitest  thou  me?  "  (John  xviii.  23.) 
"  Doting2  about  questions."  To  question 
then  is  to  dote.  "  And  strifes  of  words  "  ;  this  is 
justly  said.  For  when  the  soul  is  fevered  with 
reasonings,  and  stormy,  then  it  questions,  but 
when  it  is  in  a  sound  state,  it  does  not  question, 
but  receives  the  faith.  But  from  questionings 
and  strifes  of  words  nothing  can  be  discovered. 
For  when  the  things  which  faith  only  promises 
are  received  by  an  inquisitive  spirit,  it  neither 
demonstrates  them,  nor  suffers  us  to  understand 
them.  If  one  should  close  his  eyes,  he  would 
not  be  able  to  find  anything  he  sought :  or  if, 
again  with  his  eyes  open,  he  should  bury  him- 
self, and  exclude  the  sun,  he  would  be  unable 
to  find  anything,  thus  seeking.  So  without  faith 
nothing  can  be  discerned,  but  contentions  must 
needs  arise.  "  Whereof  come  railings,  evil  sur- 
misings "  ;  that  is,  erroneous  opinions  and  doc- 
trines arising  from  questionings.  For  when  we 
begin  to  question,  then  we  surmise  concerning 
God  things  that  we  ought  not. 


1  Or  "  entreat. 


»» 


I'OffWI'. 


468 


WORKS   OF   ST.   CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  XVII. 


"  Perverse  disputings,"  *  that  is,  leisure  or  con- 
versation, or  he  may  mean  intercommunication, 
and  that  as  infected  sheep  by  contact2  com- 
municate disease  to  the  sound,  so  do  these  bad 
men. 

"  Destitute  of  the  truth,  thinking  that  gain  is 
godliness."  Observe  what  evils  are  produced 
by  strifes  of  words.  The  love  of  gain,  igno- 
rance, and  pride ;  for  pride  is  engendered  by 
ignorance. 

"  From  such  withdraw  thyself."  He  does  not 
say,  engage  and  contend  with  them,  but  "  with- 
draw thyself,"  turn  away  from  them;  as  else- 
where he  says,  "  A  man  that  is  an  heretic  after 
the  first  and  second  admonition  reject."  (Tit. 
iii.  10.)  He  shows  that  they  do  not  so  much  err 
from  ignorance,  as  they  owe  their  ignorance  to 
their  indolence.  Those  who  are  contentious  for 
the  sake  of  money  you  will  never  persuade. 
They  are  only  to  be  persuaded,  so  long  as  you 
give,  and  even  -so  you  will  never  satisfy  their 
desires.  For  it  is  said,  "The  covetous  man's 
eye  is  not  satisfied  with  a  portion."  (Ecclus.  xiv. 
9.)  From  such  then,  as  being  incorrigible,  it  is 
right  to  turn  away.  And  if  he  who  had  much 
obligation  to  fight  for  the  truth,  is  advised  not 
to  engage  in  contention  with  such  men,  much 
more  should  we  8  avoid  it,  who  are  in  the  situa- 
tion of  disciples. 

Having  said,  "  They  think  that  godliness  is  a 
means  of  gain,"  he  adds :  "  But  godliness  with 
contentment  is  great  gain,"  not  when  it  pos- 
sesses wealth,  but  when  it  has  it  not.  For  that 
he  may  not  despond  on  account  of  his  poverty, 
he  encourages  and  revives  his  spirit.  They 
think,  he  says,  that  godliness  is  a  means  of 
gain,4  and  so  it  is ;  only  not  in  their  way,  but  in 
a  much  higher.  Then  having  demolished  theirs, 
he  extols  the  other.  For  that  worldly  gain  is 
nothing,  is  manifest,  because  it  is  left  behind, 
and  does  not  attend  us,  or  go  along  with  us  at 
our  departure.  Whence  is  this  plain?  Because 
we  had  nothing  when  we  came  into  this  world, 
therefore  we  shall  have  nothing  when  we  depart 
from  it.  For  nature  came  naked  into  the  world, 
and  naked  she  will  go  out  of  it.  Therefore  we 
want  no  superfluities ;  if  we  brought  nothing 
with  us,  and  shall  take  nothing  away  with  us. 

Ver.  8.  "And  having  food  and  raiment,  let 
us  be  therewith  content." 

Such  things,  and  so  much  ought  we  to  eat,  as 
will  suffice  to  nourish  us,  and  such  things  should 
we  put  on,  as  will  cover  us,  and  clothe  our 
nakedness,  and  nothing  more ;  and  a  common 
garment  will  answer   this   purpose.     Then   he 


1  £iairap<iTpt0ai,  rcc.  irapaAiarpt/Sat. 

2  rraparpifiofitva. 

3  This  he  would  hardly  have  said  at  Constantinople,  when  he 
was  Bishop. 

4  This  is  undoubtedly  the  true  sense,  as  the  article  is  attached  to 
"  godliness." 


urges  them  from   the   consideration   of  things 
here,  saying, 

Ver.  9.  "  But  they  that  will  be  rich " ;  not 
those  that  are  rich,  but  those  who  wish  to  be. 
For  a  man  may  have  money  and  make  a  good 
use  of  it,  not  overvaluing  it,  but  bestowing  it 
upon  the  poor.  Such  therefore  he  does  not 
blame,  but  the  covetous. 

"They  that  will  be  rich  fall  into  temptation 
and  a  snare,  and  into  many  foolish  and  hurtful 
lusts,  which  drown  men  in  destruction  and 
perdition." 

He  has  justly  said,  "  they  drown  men,"  since 
they  cannot  be  raised  from  that  depth.  "  In 
destruction  and  perdition." 

Ver.  10.  "  For  the  love  of  money  is  the  root 
of  all  evil ;  which  while  some  coveted  after,  they 
have  erred  from  the  faith,  and  pierced  them- 
selves through  with  many  sorrows." 

Two  things  he  mentions,  and  that  which  to 
them  might  seem  the  more  weighty  he  places 
last,  their  "  many  sorrows."  And  to  learn  how 
true  this  is,  the  only  way  is  to  sojourn  with  the 
rich,  to  see  how  many  are  their  sorrows,  how 
bitter  their  complaints. 

Ver.  n.   "  But  thou,  O  man  of  God." 

This  is  a  title  of  great  dignity.  For  we  are 
all  men  of  God,  but  the  righteous  peculiarly  so, 
not  by  right  of  creation  only,  but  by  that  of 
appropriation.5  If  then  thou  art  a  "  man  of 
God,"  seek  not  superfluous  things,  which  lead 
thee  not  to  God,  but 

"  Flee  these  things,  and  follow  after  righteous- 
ness." Both  expressions  are  emphatic  ;  he  does 
not  say  turn  from  one,  and  approach  the  other, 
but  "  flee  these  things,  pursue  righteousness," 
so  as  not  to  be  covetous. 

"  Godliness,"  that  is,  soundness  in  doctrines.* 

"  Faith,"  which  is  opposed  to  questionings. 

"  Love,"  patience,  meekness. 

Ver.  12.  "Fight  the  good  fight  of  faith,  lay 
hold  on  eternal  life."  Lo,  there  is  thy  reward, 
"  whereunto  thou  art  also  called,  and  hast  pro- 
fessed a  good  profession,"  in  hope  of  eternal 
life,  "  before  many  witnesses." 

That  is,  do  not  put  that  confidence  to  shame. 
Why  dost  thou  labor  to  no  profit  ?  But  what  is 
the  "  temptation  and  snare,"  which  he  says, 
those  that  would  be  rich  fall  into?  It  causes 
them  to  err  from  the  faith,  it  involves  them  in 
dangers,  it  renders  them  less  intrepid.  "  Fool- 
ish desires,"  he  says.  And  is  it  not  a  foolish 
desire,  when  men  like  to  keep  idiots  and  dwarfs, 
not  from  benevolent  motives,  but  for  their  pleas- 
ure, when  they  have  receptacles  for  fishes  in 
their  halls,  when  they  bring  up  wild  beasts, 
when  they  give  their  time  to  dogs,  and  dress  up 
horses,  and  are  as  fond  of  them  as  of  their  chil- 


8  otjcetworeoif. 

•  See  on  Stat.  Horn.  iv.  3. 


Homily  XVII.] 


HOMILIES   ON   TIMOTHY. 


469 


dren?    All  these  things  are  foolish  and  super- 
fluous, nowise  necessary,  nowise  useful. 

"  Foolish  and  hurtful  lusts  !  "  What  are  hurt- 
ful lusts  ?  When  men  live  unlawfully,  when  they 
desire  what  is  their  neighbor's,  when  they  do 
their  utmost  in1  luxury,  when  they  long  for 
drunkenness,  when  they  desire  the  murder  and 
destruction  of  others.  From  these  desires  many 
have  aimed  at  tyranny,  and  perished.  Surely 
to  labor  with  such  views  is  both  foolish  and 
hurtful.  And  well  has  he  said,  "They  have 
erred  from  the  faith."  Covetousness  attracting 
their  eyes  to  herself,  and  gradually  stealing  away 
their  minds,  suffers  them  not  to  see  their  way. 
For  as  one  walking  on  the  straight  road,  with 
his  mind  intent  on  something  else,  proceeds  on 
his  way  indeed,  but,  often  without  knowing  it, 
passes  by  the  very  city  to  which  he  was  hasten- 
ing, his  feet  plying  on  at  random  and  to  no 
purpose  :  such  like  a  thing"  is  covetousness. 
"They  have  pierced  themselves  through  with 
many  sorrows.' '  Dost  thou  see  what  he  means 
by  that  word  "  pierced  "  ?  What  he  means  to 
express  by  the  allusion2  is  this.  Desires  are 
thorns,  and  as  when  one  touches  thorns,  he 
gores  his  hand,  and  gets  him  wounds,  so  he  that 
falls  into  these  lusts  will  be  wounded  by  them, 
and  pierce  his  soul  with  griefs.  And  what  cares 
and  troubles  attend  those  who  are  thus  pierced, 
it  is  not  possible  to  express.  Therefore  he  says, 
"  Flee  these  things,  and  follow  after  righteous- 
ness, godliness,  faith,  love,  patience,  meekness." 
For  meekness  springs  from  love. 

Ver.  12.   "  Fight  the  good  fight." 

Here  he  commends  his  boldness  and  manli- 
ness, that  before  all  he  confidently  "  made  pro- 
fession," and  he  reminds  him  of  his  early  in- 
struction. 

"  Lay  hold  on  eternal  life." 

There  is  need  not  only  of  profession,  but  of 
patience  also  to  persevere  in  that  profession,  and 
of  vehement  contention,  and  of  numberless  toils, 
that  you  be  not  overthrown.  For  many  are  the 
stumbling-blocks,  and  impediments,  therefore 
the  way  is  "  strait  and  narrow."  (Matt.  vii.  14.) 
It  is  necessary  therefore  to  be  self-collected,8 
and  well  girt  on  every  side.  All  around  appear 
pleasures  attracting  the  eyes  of  the  soul.  Those 
of  beauty,  of  wealth,  of  luxury,  of  indolence,  of 
glory,  of  revenge,  of  power,  of  dominion,  and 
these  are  all  fair  and  lovely  in  appearance,  and 
able  to  captivate  those  who  are  unsteady,  and 
who  do  not  love  the  truth.  For  truth  has  but  a 
severe  and  uninviting  countenance.  And  why? 
Because  the  pleasures  that  she  promises  are  all 
future,   whereas   the   others   hold    out    present 


1  np<xnra\ai*><Tiv,  lit.  wrestle  with. 

3  cfi^cUrcMf ,  a  form  of  speech  implying  something  not  directly 
expressed. 

3  <rvyt<xTpd4»Ba*. 


honors  and  delights,  and  repose ;  though  all  are 
false  and  counterfeit.  To  these  therefore  adhere 
gross,  effeminate,  unmanly  minds,  indisposed  to 
the  toils  of  virtue.  As  in  the  games  of  the 
heathens,  he  who  does  not  earnestly  covet  the 
crown,  may  from  the  first  give  himself  up  to 
revellings  and  drunkenness,  and  so  do  in  fact 
the  cowardly  and  unmanly  combatants,  whilst 
those  who  look  steadfastly  to  the  crown  sustain 
blows  without  number.  For  they  are  supported 
and  roused  to  action  by  the  hope  of  future 
reward. 

Moral.  Let  us  then  flee  from  this  root  of  all 
evils,  and  we  shall  escape  them  all.  "  The  love 
of  money,"  he  says,  "  is  the  root ; "  thus  says 
Paul,  or  rather  Christ  by  Paul,  and  let  us  see 
how  this  is.  The  actual  experience  of  the  world 
testifies  it.  For  what  evil  is  not  caused  by 
wealth,  or  rather  not  by  wealth,  but  by  the 
wicked  will  of  those  who  know  not  how  to  use 
it  ?  For  it  is  possible  to  use  wealth  in  well  do- 
ing, and  even  through  means  of  it  to  inherit  the 
kingdom.  But  now  what  was  given  us  for  the 
relief  of  the  poor,  to  make  amends  for  our  past 
sins,  to  win  a  good  report,  and  to  please  God, 
this  we  employ  against  the  poor  and  wretched, 
or  rather  against  our  own  souls,  and  to  the  high 
displeasure  of  God.  For  as  for  the  other,  a  man 
robs  him  of  his  wealth,  and  reduces  him  to  pov- 
erty, but  himself  to  death ;  and  him  he  causes 
to  pine  in  penury  here,  but  himself  in  that  eter- 
nal punishment.  Are  they  equal  sufferers,  think 
you? 

What  evils  then  does  it  not .  cause !  what 
fraudulent  practices,  what  robberies  !  what  mis- 
eries, enmities,  contentions,  battles !  Does  it 
not  stretch  forth  its  hand  even  to  the  dead,  nay, 
to  fathers,  and  brethren  ?  Do  not  they  who  are 
possessed  by  this  passion  violate  the  laws  of 
nature,  and  the  commandments  of  God?  in 
short  everything?  Is  it  not  this  that  renders  ' 
our  courts  of  justice  necessary?  Take  away 
therefore  the  love  of  money,  and  you  put  an 
end  to  war,  to  battle,  to  enmity,  to  strife  and 
contention.  Such  men  ought  therefore  to  be 
banished  from  the  world,  as  wolves  and  pests. 
For  as  opposing  and  violent  winds,  sweeping 
over  a  calm  sea,  stir  it  up  from  its  foundations, 
and  mingle  the  sands  of  the  deep  with  the  waves 
above,  so  the  lovers  of  wealth  confound  and 
unsettle  everything.  The  covetous  man  never 
knows  a  friend :  a  friend,  did  I  say  ?  he  knows 
not  God  Himself,  driven  mad,  as  he  is,  by  the 
passion  of  avarice.  Do  ye  not  see  the  Titans 
going  forth  sword  in  hand?  This  is  a  represen- 
tation of  madness.  But  the  lovers  of  money  do 
not  counterfeit,  they  are  really  mad,  and  beside 
themselves ;  and  if  you  could  lay  bare  their 
souls,  you  would  find  them  armed  in  this  way 
not  with  one  or  two  swords,  but  with  thousands, 


470 


WORKS   OF    ST.    CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  XVII. 


acknowledging  no  one,  but  turning  their  rage 
against  all ;  flying  and  snarling  at  all,  slaughter- 
ing not  dogs,1  but  the  souls  of  men,  and  utter- 
ing blasphemies  against  heaven  itself.  By  these 
men  all  things  are  subverted,  and  ruined  by 
their  madness  after  wealth. 

For  whom  indeed,  whom  I  should  accuse,  I 
know  not !  It  is  a  plague  that  so  seizes  all, 
some  more,  some  less,  but  all  in  a  degree.  Like 
a  fire  catching  a  wood,  that  desolates  and  de- 
stroys all  around,  this  passion  has  laid  waste  the 
world.  Kings,  magistrates,  private  persons,  the 
poor,  women,  men,  children,  are  all  alike  affected 
by  it.  As  if  a  gross  darkness  had  overspread 
the  earth,  no  one  is  in  his  sober  senses.  Yet  we 
hear,  both  in  public  and  private,  many  declama- 
tions 2  against  covetousness,  but  no  one  is  mended 
by  them. 

What  then  is  to  be  done?  How  shall  we 
extinguish  this  flame  ?  For  though  it  has  risen 
up  to  heaven  itself,  it  is  to  be  extinguished. 
We  have  only  to  be  willing,  and  we  shall  be  able 
to  master  the  conflagration.  For  as  by  our  will 
it  has  got  head,  so  it  may  be  brought  under  by 
our  will.  Did  not  our  own  choice  cause  it,  and 
will  not  the  same  choice  avail  to  extinguish  it  ? 
Only  let  us  be  willing.  But  how  shall  that 
willingness  be  engendered  ?  If  we  consider  the 
vanity  and  the  unprofitableness  of  wealth,  that 
it  cannot  depart  hence  with  us,  that  even  here 
it  forsakes  us,  and  that  whilst  it  remains  behind, 
it  inflicts  upon  us  wounds  that  depart  along  with 
us.  If  we  see  that  there  are  riches  There,  com- 
pared  to  which  the  wealth  of  this  world  is  more 
despicable  than  dung.  If  we  consider  that  it  is 
attended  with  numberless  dangers,  with  pleasure 
that  is  temporary,  pleasure  mingled  with  sorrow. 
If  we  contemplate  aright  the  true  riches  of 
eternal  life,  we  shall  be  able  to  despise  worldly 
wealth.  If  we  remember  that  it  profits  nothing 
either  to  glory,  or  health,  or  any  other  thing ; 
but  on  the  contrary  drowns  men  in  destruction 
and  perdition.  If  thou  consider  that  here  thou 
art  rich,  and  hast  many  under  thee,  but  that 
when  thou  departest  hence,  thou  wilt  go  naked 
and  solitary.  If  we  often  represent8 these  things 
to  ourselves,  and  listen  to  them  from  others, 
there  will  perhaps  be  a  return  to  a  sound  mind, 
and  a  deliverance  from  this  dreadful  punishment. 

1  There  was  a  heathen  festival  at  Argos,  called  Cynophontis 
(Athenasus,  1.  3,  Cas.  p.  99),  in  which  dogs  met  abroad  were  killed; 
but  whether  this  was  done  in  the  warlike  dance  called  Titanes 
(which  was  practiced  even  by  persons  of  rank,  Lucian,  dc  Salt.  §  21, 
p.  37  and  79)  does  not  appear. 

8  See  Libanius,  Or.  7. 

3  eirdSw/Atf. 


Is  a  pearl  beautiful?  yet  consider,  it  is  but 
sea  water,  and  was  once  cast  away  in  the  bosom 
of  the  deep.  Are  gold  and  silver  beautiful? 
yet  they  were  and  are  but  dust  and  ashes.  Are 
silken  vestments  beautiful  ?  yet  they  are  nothing 
but  the  spinning  of  worms.  This  beauty  is  but 
in  opinion,  in  human  prejudice,  not  in  the  nature 
of  the  things.  For  that  which  possesses  beauty 
from  nature,  need  nQt  any  to  point  it  out.  If 
you  see  a  coin  of  brass  that  is  but  gilded  over, 
you  admire  it  at  first,  fancying  that  it  is  gold ; 
but  when  the  cheat  is  shown  to  you  by  one  who 
understands  it,  your  wonder  vanishes  with  the 
deceit.  The  beauty  therefore  was  not  in  the 
nature  of  the  thing.  Neither  is  it  in  silver ; 
you  may  admire  tin  for  silver,  as  you  admired 
brass  for  gold,  and  you  need  some  one  to  inform 
you  what  you  should  admire.  Thus  our  eyes 
are  not  sufficient  to  discern  the  difference.  It 
is  not  so  with  flowers,  which  are  much  more 
beautiful.  If  you  see  a  rose,  you  need  no  one 
to  inform  you,  you  can  of  yourself  distinguish 
an  anemone,  and  a  violet,  or  a  lily,  and  every 
other  flower.  It  is  nothing  therefore  but  preju- 
dice. And  to  show,  that  this  destructive  passion 
is  but  a  prejudice ;  tell  me,  if  the  Emperor  were 
pleased  to  ordain  that  silver  should  be  of  more 
value  than  gold,  would  you  not  transfer  your 
love  and  admiration  to  the  former  ?  Thus  we 
are  everywhere  under  the  influence  of  covetous- 
ness and  opinion.4  And  that  it  is  so,  and  that 
a  thing  is  valued  for  its  rarity,  and  not  for  its 
nature,  appears  hence.  The  fruits  that  are  held 
cheap  among  us  are  in  high  esteem  among  the 
Cappadocians,  and  among  the  Serians5  even 
more  valuable  than  the  most  precious  among  us, 
from  which  country  these  garments  are  brought ; 
and  many  such  instances  might  be  given  in 
Arabia  and  India,  where  spices  are  produced, 
and  where  precious  stones  are  found.  Such 
preference  therefore  is  nothing  but  prejudice, 
and  human  opinion.  We  act  not  from  judgment, 
but  at  random,  and  as  accident  determines. 
But  let  us  recover  from  this  intoxication,  let  us 
fix  our  view  upon  that  which  is  truly  beautiful, 
beautiful  in  its  own  nature,  upon  godliness  and 
righteousness ;  that  we  may  obtain  the  promised 
blessings,  through  the  grace  and  lovingkindness 

of  Jesus  Christ  our  Lord,  with  whom,  &c. 

^ —  w 

*  nKeovt£La*  teat  inropotac .  The  latter  is  literally  suspicion,  but 
in  ver.  4  he  seems  to  render  it  opinions,  in  the  sense  of  imaginations 
bred  by  selfishness. 

6  Seres,  a  j>eople  on  the  borders  of  China.  In  Tac.  Ann.  u.  33. 
a.d.  16,  wc  find  a  law  at  Rome  against  men  wearing  silk,  vestn's 
Srricti. 


Homily  XVIII.] 


HOMILIES   ON   TIMOTHY. 


471 


HOMILY    XVIII. 

1  Timothy  vi.  13-16. 


«i 


I  give  thee  charge  in  the  sight  of  God,  Who  quickeneth 
all  things,  and  before  Christ  Jesus,  Who  before 
Pontius  Pilate  witnessed  a  good  confession;  that 
thou  keep  this  commandment  without  spot,  unre- 
bukable,  until  the  appearing  of  our  Lord  Jesus 
Christ :  which  in  his  times  He  shall  show,  Who  is 
the  blessed  and  only  Potentate,  the  King  of  kings, 
and  Ix>rd  of  lords;  Who  only  hath  immortality, 
dwelling  in  the  light  which  no  man  can  approach 
unto;  Whom  no  man  hath  seen,  nor  can  see;  to 
Whom  be  honor  and  power  everlasting.     Amen." 


Again  he  calls  God  to  witness,  as  he  had  done 
a  little  before,  at  once  to  increase  his  disciple's 
awe,  and  to  secure  his  safety,  and  to  show  that 
these  were  not  human  commandments,  that 
receiving  the  commandment  as  from  the  Lord 
Himself,  and  ever  bearing  in  mind  the  Witness  * 
before  Whom  he  heard  it,  he  may  have  it  more 
fearfully  impressed  upon  his  mind. 

"  I  charge  thee,"  he  says,  "  before  God,  Who 
quickeneth  all  things." 

Here  is  at  once  consolation  in  the  dangers 
which  awaited  him,  and  a  remembrance  of  the 
resurrection  awakened  in  him. 

"  And  before  Jesus  Christ,  Who  before  Pon- 
tius Pilate  witnessed  a  good  confession." 

The  exhortation  again  is  derived  from  the 
example  of  his  Master,  and  what  he  means  is 
this ;  as  He  had  done,  so  ought  ye  to  do,  for 
for  this  cause  He  "witnessed"  (1  Pet.  ii.  21), 
that  we  might  tread  in  His  steps. 

"  A  good  confession.  "2  What  he  does  in  his 
Epistle  to  the  Hebrews, — "Looking unto  Jesus, 
the  Author  and  Finisher  of  our  faith ;  Who  for 
the  joy  that  was  set  before  Him  endured  the 
cross,  despising  the  shame,  and  is  set  down  at 
the  right  hand  of  the  throne  of  God.  For  con- 
sider Him  that  endured  such  contradiction  of 
sinners  against  Himself,  lest  ye  be  wearied  and 
faint  in  your  minds"  (Heb.  xii.  2,  3),  —  that  he 
now  does  to  his  disciple  Timothy.  As  if  he  had 
said,  Fear  not  death,  since  thou  art  the  servant 
of  God,  Who  can  give  life  to  all  things. 

But  to  what  "  good  confession  "  does  he  allude  ? 
To  that  which  He  made  when  Pilate  asked,  "  Art 
thou  a  King?"  "To  this  end,"  He  said,  "was 
I  born."  And  again,  "  I  came,  that  I  might 
bear  witness  to  the  Truth.  Behold,  these  have 
heard  Me."  (John  xviii.  37.)  He  may  mean 
this,  or  that  when  asked,  "  Art  thou  the  Son  of 
God?"  He  answered,  "Thou  sayest,  that  I  am 


»  Edd.  atfol,"  from  whom";  but  B.  has ty o8,  and  Old  I«at.  sub 
quo,  which  is  much  better. 

s  Savile's  punctuation.  Ben.  joins  this  to  the  preceding  clause, 
but  so  it  is  scarcely  grammatical. 


(the  Son  of  God)."  (Luke  xxii.  70.)  And 
many  other  testimonies  and  confessions  did  He 
make. 

Ver.  14.  "That  thou  keep  this  commandment 
without  spot,  unrebukable,  until  the  appearing 
of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ." 

That  is,  till  thy  end,  thy  departure  hence,  though 
he  does  not  so  express  it,  but  that  he  may  the 
more  arouse  him,  says,  "till  His  appearing." 
But  what  is  "to  keep  the  commandment  with- 
out spot"?  To  contract  no  defilement,  either 
of  doctrine  or  of  life. 

Ver.  15.  "Which  in  His  times  He  shall  show, 
Wlio  is  the  blessed  and  only  Potentate,  King  of 
kings,  and  Lord  of  lords,  Who  only  hath  immor- 
tality, dwelling  in  the  light  which  no  man  can 
approach  unto." 

Of  whom  are  these  things  said?  Of  the 
Father,  or  of  the  Son?  Of  the  Son,  undoubt- 
edly :  and  it  is  said  for  the  consolation  of  Timo- 
thy, that  he  may  not  fear  nor  stand  in  awe  of  the 
kings  of  the  earth. 

"  In  His  times,"  that  is,  the  due  and  fitting 
times,  that  he  may  not  be  impatient,  because  it 
has  not  yet  come.  And  whence  is  it  manifest, 
that  He  will  show  it  ?  Because  He  is  the  Poten- 
tate, the  "  only  Potentate."  He  then  will  show 
it,  Who  is  "  blessed,"  nay  blessedness  itself;  and 
this  is  said,  to  show  that  in  that  appearing  there 
is  nothing  painful  or  uneasy. 

But  he  says,  "  only,"  either  in  contradistinc- 
tion to  men,  or  because  He  was  unoriginated,3  or 
as  we  sometimes  speak  of  a  man  whom  we  wish 
to  extol. 

"  Who  only  hath  immortality."  What  then  ? 
hath  not  the  Son  immortality?  Is  He  not  im- 
mortality itself?  How  should  not  He,  who  is 
of  the  same  substance  with  the  Father,  have 
immortality  ? 

"  Dwelling  in  the  light  which  no  man  can  ap- 
proach unto."  Is  He  then  Himself  one  Light, 
and  is  there  another  in  which  He  dwells?  is  He 
then  circumscribed  by  place  ?  Think  not  of  it. 
By  this  expression  is  represented  the  Incompre- 
hensibleness  of  the  Divine  Nature.  Thus  he 
speaks  of  God,  in  the  best  way  he  is  able. 
Observe,  how  when  the  tongue  would  utter 
something  great,  it  fails  in  power. 

"  Whom  no  man  hath  seen  nor  can  see."    As, 
indeed,  no  one  hath  seen  the  Son,  nor  can  see  ' 
Him.4 


3    OVfKVTJTOr. 

4  That  i>.  in  His  divine  nature,  considered  apart  from  the  human. 


472 


WORKS   OF   ST.    CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  XVIII. 


"  To  whom  be  honor  and  power  everlasting. 
Amen."  Thus  properly,  and  much  to  the  pur- 
pose, has  he  spoken  of  God.  For  as  he  had 
called  Him  to  witness,  he  speaks  much  of  that 
Witness,  that  his  disciple  may  be  in  the  greater 
awe.  In  these  terms  he  ascribes  glory  to  Him, 
and  this  is  all  we  can  do,  or  say.  We  must  not 
enquire  too  curiously,  who  He  is.  If  power  ever- 
lasting is  His,  fear  not.  Yea  though  now  it  take 
not  place,1  to  Him  is  honor,  to  Him  is  power 
evermore. 

Ver.  17.  "  Charge  them  that  are  rich  in  this 
world  that  they  be  not  high-minded." 

He  has  well  said,  "  rich  in  this  world."  For 
there  are  others  rich  in  the  future  world.  And 
this  advice  he  gives,  knowing  that  nothing  so 
generally  produces  pride  and  arrogance  as 
wealth.  To  abate  this,  therefore,  he  immedi- 
ately adds,  "  Nor  trust  in  uncertain  riches  "  ; 
since  that  was  the  source  of  pride ;  inasmuch 
as  he  who  hopes  in  God,  is  not  elated.  Why 
dost  thou  place  thy  hopes  upon  what  is  instantly 
transferable  ?  For  such  is  wealth !  and  why 
hopest  thou  on  that  of  which  thou  canst  not  be 
confident?  But  you  say,  how  can  they  avoid 
being  high-minded  ?  By  considering  the  insta- 
bility and  uncertainty  of  riches,  and  that  hope 
in  God  is  infinitely  more  valuable ;  God  being 
the  Author  of  wealth  itself. 

Ver.  17.  "But  in  the  living  God,"  he  says, 
"  who  giveth  us  richly  all  things  to  enjoy." 

This  "  all  things  richly  "  is  justly  spoken,  in 
reference  to  the  changes  of  the  year,  to  air, 
light,  water,  and  other  gifts.  For  how  richly 
and  ungrudgingly  are  all  these  bestowed  !  If 
thou  seekest  riches,  seek  those  that  are  stable 
and  enduring,  and  which  are  the  fruit  of  good 
works.  He  shows  that  this  is  his  meaning  by 
what  follows. 

Ver.  18.  "  That  they  do  good,"  he  says,  "  that 
they  be  rich  in  good  works,  ready  to  distribute, 
willing  to  communicate." 

The  first  phrase  refers  to  wealth,  the  second 
to  charity.  For  to  be  willing  to  communicate, 
implies  that  they  are  sociable  and  kind. 

Ver.  19.  "  Laying  up  in  store  for  themselves 
a  good  foundation  against  the  time  to  come." 

There  nothing  is  uncertain,  for  the  foundation 
being  firm,  there  is  no  instability,  all  is  firm, 
fixed,  immovable,  fast,  and  enduring. 

Ver.  19.  "That  they  may  lay  hold,"  he  says, 
"  on  eternal  life." 

For  the  doing  of  good  works  can  secure  the 
enjoyment  of  eternal  life. 

See  on  Phil.  ii.  5-11,  Horn.  vii.  p.  78,  and  note  g,  and  compare  John 
i.  14-18;  vi.  46;  xiv.  7.  9;  Luke  xxiv.  39;  John  iv.  24;  a  Cor.  iii. 
17;   1  Tim.  iii.  16;   1  John  iii.  2. 

1  tiff  yeVirrai.  He  either  means  that  though  not  yet  fully  come, 
His  Kingdom,  when  come,  shall  be  eternal,  or  puts  yivtoBai,  "  to 
take  place,"  in  opposition  to  clpai,  "  to  be."  The  former  word  re- 
fers to  events  in  time,  the  latter  to  the  real  constitution  of  things. 
Phil.  ii.  xo;  Heb.  ii.  8. 


Ver.  20.  "O  Timothy,  keep  that  which  is 
committed  to  thy  trust." 

Let  it  not  suffer  diminution.  It  is  not  thy 
own.  Thou  art  intrusted  with  the  property  of 
another,  do  not  lessen  it. 

Ver.  20.  "Avoiding  profane  and  vain  bab- 
blings, and  oppositions  of  science  falsely  so 
called." 

Well  did  he  thus  call  it.  For  where  there  is 
not  faith,  there  is  not  knowledge ;  when  anything 
springs  from  our  reasonings,  it  is  not  knowledge. 
Or  perhaps  he  says  this,  because  some  then 
assumed  the  name  of  Gnostics,  as  knowing  more 
than  others. 

Ver.  21.  "Which  some  professing  have  erred 
concerning  the  faith." 

You  see  how  again  he  commands  Timothy 
not  even  to  meet  them.  "  Avoiding  opposi- 
tion." There  are  therefore  oppositions  to  which 
we  ought  not  to  vouchsafe  an  answer,  because 
they  turn  men  from  faith,  and  do  not  suffer  one 
to  be  firmly  established  or  fixed  in  it.  Let  us 
not  then  pursue  this  science,  but  adhere  to  faith, 
that  unshaken  rock.  For  neither  floods  nor 
winds  assailing  will  be  able  to  harm  us,  since 
we  stand  on  the  rock  immovable.  Thus  even 
in  this  life,  if  we  choose  Him,  Who  is  truly  the 
foundation,  we  stand,  and  no  harm  assails  us. 
For  what  can  hurt  him  who  hath  chosen  the 
riches,  the  honor,  the  glory,  the  pleasure  of  the 
life  to  come  ?  They  are  all  firm,  in  them  there 
is  no  variableness ;  all  things  here  subject  to  re- 
verse, and  are  for  ever  changing.  For  what 
wouldest  thou  have?  glory?  The  Psalmist 
says,  "  His  glory  shall  not  descend  after  him." 
(Ps.  xlix.  17.)  And  often  it  abides  not  with 
him  whilst  he  lives.  But  it  is  not  so  with  virtue, 
all  things  which  pertain  to  her  are  permanent. 
Here,  he  who  obtains  glory  from  his  office,  upon 
another  succeeding  to  his  office,  becomes  a 
private  man  and  inglorious.  The  rich  man  is 
reduced  to  poverty  by  the  attack  of  robbers,  or 
the  snares  of  sycophants  and  knaves.  It  is  not 
so  with  Christians.  The  temperate  man,  if  he 
take  heed  to  himself,  will  not  be  robbed  of  his 
virtue.  He  who  rules  himself,  cannot  become  a 
common  man  and  a  subject. 

And  that  this  rule  is  superior  to  any  other, 
will  appear  upon  examination.  For  of  what  ad- 
vantage, tell  me,  is  it  to  reign  over  nations1  of  our 
fellow- men,  and  to  be  the  slaves  of  our  own  pas- 
sions? Or  what  are  we  the  worse  for  having 
no  one  under  our  rule,  if  we  are  superior  to 
the  tyranny  of  the  passions?  That  indeed  is 
Freedom,  that  is  Rule,  that  is  Royalty  and 
Sovereignty.  The  contrary  is  slavery,  though 
a  man  be  invested  with  countless  diadems.  For 
when  a  multitude  of  masters  sway  him  from 
within,  the  love  of  money,  the  love  of  pleasure, 
and  anger,  and  other  passions,  what  avails  his 


Homily  XVIII.] 


HOMILIES   ON  TIMOTHY. 


473 


diadem?  The  tyranny  of  those  passions  is 
more  severe,  when  not  •  even  his  crown  has 
power  to  deliver  him  from  their  subjection. 
As  if  one  who  had  been  a  king  should  be  re- 
duced to  slavery  by  barbarians,  and  they  wish- 
ing to  show  their  power  the  more  absolutely, 
should  not  strip  him  of  his  purple  robe  and 
his  diadem,  but  oblige  him  to  work  in  them, 
and  to  perform  all  menial  offices,  to  draw  water, 
and  to  cook  their  food,  that  his  disgrace  and 
their  honor  might  be  the  more  apparent :  so  do 
our  passions  domineer  over  us  more  barbarously 
than  any  barbarians.  For  he  that  despises  them 
can  despise  the  barbarians  too ;  but  he  that  sub- 
mits to  them,  will  suffer  more  severely  than  from 
barbarians.  The  barbarian,  when  his  power 
prevails,  may  afflict  the  body,  but  these  passions 
torture  the  soul,  and  lacerate  it  all  over.  When 
the  barbarian  has  prevailed,  he  delivers  one  to 
temporal  death,  but  these  to  that  which  is  to 
come.  So  that  he  alone  is  the  free  man,  who  has 
his  freedom  in  himself;  and  he  who  submits  to 
these  unreasonable  passions,  is  the  slave. 

No  master,  however  inhuman,  imposes  such 
severe  and  inhuman  commands.  They  say  to 
him,  in  effect,  "  Disgrace  thy  soul  without  end 
or  object,  —  offend  thy  God,  —  be  deaf  to  the 
claims  of  nature ;  though  it  be  thy  father  or  thy 
mother,  be  not  ashamed  to  set  thyself  against 
them."  Such  are  the  commands  of  avarice. 
"  Sacrifice  to  me,  she  says,  not  calves,  but  men." 
The  prophet  indeed  says,  "Sacrifice  men,  for 
the  calves  have  failed."  (Hosea  xiii.  2,  Sept.) 
But  avarice  says,  "  Sacrifice  men,  though  there 
are  yet  calves.  Sacrifice  those  who  have 
never  injured  thee,  yea  slay  them,  though  they 
have  been  thy  benefactors."  Or  again,  "  Be  at 
war,  and  go  about  as  the  common  enemy  of  all, 
of  nature  herself,  and  of  God.  Heap  up  gold, 
not  that  thou  may  est  enjoy  it,  but  that  thou 
mayest  keep  it,  and  work  greater  torture  to  thy- 
self." For  it  is  not  possible  that  the  lover  of 
money  should  be  able  to  enjoy  it,  since  he  fears 
lest   his  gold   should   be    diminished,   lest  his 


hoards  should  fail.  "  Be  watchful,"  it  says,  "  be 
suspicious  of  every  one,  even  domestics  and 
friends. .  Have  an  eye  to  the  goods  of  other 
men.  Though  you  see  the  poor  man  perishing 
with  hunger,  give  him  nothing ;  but  strip  him,  if 
it  be  possible,  even  of  his  skin.  Break  thine 
oaths,  lie,  swear.  Be  an  accuser,  a  false  in- 
former. Refuse  not,  if  it  be  necessary,  to  rush 
into  fire,  to  submit  to  a  thousand  deaths,  to  perish 
with  hunger,  to  struggle  with  disease."  Does 
not  avarice  impose  these  laws?  "Be  offensive 
and  impudent,  shameless  and  bold,  villainous, 
and  wicked,  ungrateful,  unfeeling,  unfriendly, 
faithless,  devoid  of  affection,  a  parricide,  a  beast 
rather  than  a  man.  Surpass  the  serpent  in  bit- 
terness, the  wolf  in  rapacity.  Exceed  in  bru- 
tality even  the  beast,  nay  should  it  be  necessary 
to  proceed  even  to  the  malignity  of  the  devil,, 
refuse  not.     Be  a  stranger  to  thy  benefactor." 

Does  not  avarice  say  all  this,  and  is  it  not 
listened  to?  God  on  the  contrary  says,  Be  a 
friend  to  all,  be  gentle,  beloved  by  all,  give 
offense  causelessly  to  no  one.  "  Honor  thy 
father  and  thy  mother."  Win  an  honorable  rep- 
utation. Be  not  a  man,  but  an  angel.  Utter 
nothing  immodest,  nothing  false,  nor  even  think 
of  it.  Relieve  the  poor.  Bring  not  trouble  on  , 
thyself,  by  ravaging  others.  Be  not  bold  nor 
insolent.  God  says  this,  but  no  one  hearkens. 
Is  not  hell  then  justly  threatened,  and  the  fire, 
and  the  worm  that  dieth  not?  How  long  are 
we  thus  to  thrust  ourselves  down  the  precipice  ? 
How  long  are  we  to  walk  upon  thorns,  and  pierce 
ourselves  with  nails,  and  be  grateful  for  it  ?  We 
subject  ourselves  to  cruel  tyrants,  and  refuse  the 
gentle  Master,  who  imposes  nothing  grievous,, 
nor  barbarous,  nor  burdensome,  nor  unprofita- 
ble, but  all  things  such  as  are  useful,  and  valu- 
able, and  beneficial.  Let  us  then  arouse  our- 
selves, and  be  self-collected,  and  gather  our 
forces.  Let  us  love  God  as  we  ought,  that  we 
may  obtain  the  blessings  promised  to  those  that 
love  Him,  through  the  grace  and  mercy  of  our 
Lord  Jesus  Christ,  with  whom,  to  the  Father,  &c 


HOMILIES  OF  ST.  JOHN  CHRYSOSTOM, 


ARCHBISHOP  OF  CONSTANTINOPLE, 


ON    THE 


SECOND    EPISTLE   OF   ST.    PAUL   THE  APOSTLE 


TO 


TIMOTHY. 


HOMILY     I. 


2  Timothy  i.  i,  2. 


u  Paul,  an  apostle  of  Jesus  Christ  by  the  will  of  God, 
according  to  the  promise  of  life  which  is  in  Jesus 
Christ,  to  Timothy,  my  dearly  beloved  son :  Grace, 
mercy,  and  peace,  from  God  the  Father  and  Christ 
Jesus  our  Lord." 

What  is  the  reason  of  his  writing  this  second 
Epistle  to  Timothy  ?  He  had  said,  "  I  hope  to 
come  unto  thee  shortly"  (1  Tim.  ill.  14),  and 
as  this  had  not  taken  place,  instead  of  coming 
to  him,  he  consoles  him  by  a  letter,  when  he 
was  grieving  perhaps  for  his  absence,  and  op- 
pressed by  the  cares  of  the  government,  which 
he  had  now  taken  in  hand.  For  even  great 
men,  when  they  are  placed  at  the  helm,  and  are 
charged  with  the  direction  of  the  Church,  feel 
the  strangeness  of  their  position,  and  are  over- 
whelmed, as  it  were,  by  the  waves  of  business. 
This  was  particularly  the  case  when  the  Gospel 
was  first  preached,  when  the  ground  was  every- 
where unturned,  and  all  was  opposition  and  hos- 
tility. There  were,  besides,  heresies  commenc- 
ing from  the  Jewish  teachers,  as  he  has  shown 
in  his  former  Epistle.  Nor  does  he  only  com- 
fort him  by  letters,  he  invites  him  to  come  to 
him  :  "  Do  thy  diligence,"  he  says,  "  to  come 
shortly  unto  me,"  and,  "when  thou  comest, 
bring  with  thee  the  books,  but  especially  the 
parchments."  (2  Tim.  iv.  9  and  13.)  And  he 
seems  to  have  written  this  Epistle  when  his  end 


was  approaching.  For  he  says,  "I  am  now 
ready  to  be  offered  up  " ;  and  again,  "  At  my 
first  answer  no  man  stood  with  me."  (  2  Tim.  iv.' 
6  and  16.)  To  set  all  this  right,  he  both  offers 
consolation  from  his  own  trials,  and  also  says, 

"  Paul,  an  apostle  of  Jesus  Christ  by  the  will 
of  God,  according  to  the  promise  of  life  which 
is  in  Christ  Jesus." 

Thus  at  the  very  commencement  he  raises  up 
his  mind.  Tell  me  not,  he  says,  of  the  dangers 
here.  These  obtain  for  us  eternal  life,  where 
there  is  no  peril,  where  grief  and  mourning  flee 
away.  For  He  hath  not  made  us  Apostles  only 
that  we  might  encounter  dangers,  but  that  we 
might  even  suffer  and  die.1  And  as  it  would 
not  be  a  consolation  to  recount  to  him  his  own 
troubles,  but  rather  an  increase  of  his  grief,  he 
begins  immediately  with  offering  comfort,  say- 
ing, "  According  to  the  promise  of  life  which  is 
in  Jesus  Christ."  But  if  it  is  a  "  promise,"  seek 
it  not  here.  For,  "hope  that  is  seen  is  not 
hope."     (Rom.  viii.  24.) 

Ver.  2.    "To  Timothy,   my  dearly  beloved 


son. 


M 


Not  merely  his  "  son,"  but, "  dearly  beloved  "  ; 
since  it  is  possible  for  sons  not  to  be  beloved. 


1  If  the  reading  is  correct,  ird<rx*titv  must  be  emphatic,  meaning 
actually  "  suffer,  for  it  is  harsh  to  render  it  of  the  good  things  to 
come. 


<< 


476 


WORKS   OF  ST.   CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  L 


Not  such,  he  means,  art  thou ;  I  call  thee  not 
merely  a  son,  but  a  "  dearly  beloved  son."  As 
he  calls  the  Galatians  his  children,  but  at  the 
same  time  complains  of  them  ;  "  My  little  chil- 
dren," he  says,  "of  whom  I  travail  in  birth 
again."  (Gal.  iv.  19.)  And  he  bears  particu- 
lar testimony  to  his  virtue  by  calling  him  "  be- 
loved." For  where  love  does  not  arise  from 
nature,  it  must  arise  from  the  merit  of  the  ob- 
ject. Those  who  are  born  of  us,  are  loved  not 
only  on  account  of  their  virtue,  but  from  the 
force  of  nature ;  but  when  those  who  are  of  the 
faith  are  beloved,  it  is  on  account  of  nothing 
but  their  merit,  for  what  else  can  it  be?  And 
this  especially  in  the  case  of  Paul,  who  never 
acted  from  partiality.  And  further,  he  shows 
by  calling  him  his  "  beloved  son,"  that  it  was 
not  because  he  was  offended  with  him,  or  de- 
spised him,  or  condemned  him  ;  that  he  did  not 
come  to  him. 

Ver.  2.  "  Grace,  mercy,  and  peace,  from  God 
the  Father,  and  Christ  Jesus  our  Ix>rd." 

These  things  which  he  before  prayed  for,  he 
again  invokes  upon  him.  And  observe  how,  at 
the  very  beginning,  he  excuses  himself  for  not 
having  come  to  him,  nor  seen  him.  For  his 
words,  "  Till  I  come,"  and,  "  Hoping  to  come 
to  thee  shortly,"  had  led  Timothy  to  expect  his 
coming  soon.  For  this  he  excuses  himself,  but 
he  does  not  immediately  mention  the  cause 
of  his  not  coming,  lest  he  should  grieve  him 
mightily.  For  he  was  detained  in  prison  by  the 
emperor.  But  when  at  the  end  of  the  Epistle 
he  invited  him  to  come  to  him,  then  he  informed 
him  of  it.  He  does  not  at  the  outset  plunge 
him  into  sorrow,  but  encourages  the  hope  that 
he  shall  see  him.  "Greatly  desiring  to  see 
thee,"  and  "  Do  thy  diligence  to  come  unto  me 
shortly."  (2  Tim.  i.  4,  and  iv.  9.)  Immedi- 
ately therefore  he  raises  him  up,  and  proceeds 
to  praise  him. 

Ver.  3,  4.  "I  thank  God,  whom  I  serve  from 
my  forefathers  with  pure  conscience,  that  with- 
out ceasing  I  have  remembrance  of  thee  in  my 
prayers  night  and  day;  greatly  desiring  to  see 
thee,  being  mindful  of  thy  tears,  that  I  might 
be  filled  with  joy." 

" '  I  thank  God,'  he  says,  '  that  I  remember 
thee/  so  much  do  I  love  thee."  This  is  a  mark 
of  excessive  love,  when  a  man  glories  in  his 
affection  from  loving  so  much.  "  I  thank  God," 
he  says,  "  Whom  I  serve  "  :  and  how  ?  "  With 
a  pure  conscience,"  for  he  had  not  violated  his 
conscience.  And  here  he  speaks  of  his  blame- 
less life,  for  he  everywhere  calls  his  life  his  con- 
science. Or  because  I  never  gave  up  any  good 
that  I  purposed,  for  any  human  cause,  not  even 
when  I  was  a  persecutor.  Wherefore  he  says, 
"  I  obtained  mercy,  because  I  did  it  ignorandy 
in  unbelief"  (1  Tim.  i.  13)  ;  all  but  saying, "  Do 


not  suspect  that  it  was  done  of  wickedness." 
He  properly  commends  his  own  disposition,  that 
his  love  may  appear  sincere.  For  what  he  says 
is  in  fact,  "  I  am  not  false,  I  do  not  think  one 
thing  and  profess  another."  So  in  the  book  of 
Acts  we  read  he  was  compelled  to  praise  him- 
self. For  when  they  slandered  him  as  a  sedi- 
tious man  and  an  innovator,  he  said  in  his  own 
defense,  "  Ananias  said  to  me,  Hie  God  of  our 
fathers  hath  chosen  thee  that  thou  shouldest 
know  His  will,  and  see  that  Just  One,  and 
shouldest  hear  the  voice  of  His  mouth.  For 
thou  shalt  be  His  witness  unto  all  men  of  what 
thou  hast  seen  and  heard."  (Acts  xxii.  14, 15.) 
In  the  same  manner  here,  that  he  may  not,  as 
if  he  had  been  forgetful,  have  the  character  of 
one  void  of  friendship  and  conscience,  he  justly 
praises  himself,  saying,  that  "  without  ceasing  I 
have  remembrance  of  thee,"  and  not  simply 
that,  but  "in  my  prayers."  That  is,  it  is  the 
business  of  my  prayers,  that  which  I  constantly 
continue  to  perform.  For  this  he  shows  by  say- 
ing, "  For  this  I  besought  God  day  and  night, 
desiring  to  see  fhee."  Mark  his  fervent  desire, 
the  intensity *  of  his  love.  And  again,  his  hu- 
mility, how  he  apologizes  to  his  disciples,  and 
then  he  shows  that  it  was  not  on  light  or  vain 
grounds ;  and  this  he  had  shown  us  before,  but 
again  gives  proof  of  it.  "  Being  mindful  of  thy 
tears."  It  was  natural  for  Timothy,  when  part- 
ing from  him,2  to  mourn  and  weep,  more  than  a 
child  torn  away  from  the  milk  and  from  the  breast 
of  its  mother.  "  That  I  may  be  filled  with  joy ; 
gready  desiring  to  see  thee."  I  would  not  will- 
ingly have  deprived  myself  of  so  great  a  pleasure, 
though  I  had  been  of  an  unfeeling  and  brutal 
nature,  for  those  tears  coming  to  my  remem- 
brance would  have  been  enough  to  soften  me. 
But  such  is  not  my  character.  I  am  one  of 
those  who  serve  God  purely;  so  that  many 
strong  motives  urged  me  to  come  to  thee.  So 
then  he  wept.  And  he  mentions  another  cause, 
and  that  of  a  consolatory  kind. 

Ver.  5.  "When  I  call  to  remembrance  the 
unfeigned  faith  that  is  in  thee." 

This  is  another  commendation,  that  Timothy 
came  not  of  Gentiles,  nor  of  unbelievers,  but  of 
a  family  that  served  Christ  from  the  first.  (Acts 
xvi.  1,  3.) 

"  Which  dwelt  first  in  thy  grandmother  Lois, 
and  thy  mother  Eunice." 

For  Timothy,  it  says,  "  was  the  son  of  a  cer- 
tain woman  which  was  a  Jewess,  and  believed." 
How  a  Jewess?  how  believing?  Because  she 
was  not  of  the  Gentiles,  "  but  on  account  of  his 
father,  who  was  a  Greek,  and  of  the  Jews  that 


t« 


1  naviav.     Lit.  "  madness.' 

*  The  present  tense  implies  that  it  was  at  the  time  of  parting. 
Mr.  Greswell  supposes  that  St.  Paul  had  been  recently  apprehended 
in  the  presence  of  Timothy ;  see  his  work  on  the  Harmony  *f  the 
Gospels,  Vol.  2,  Diss,  i,  pp.  97,  98. 


Homily  I.] 


HOMILIES   ON   TIMOTHY. 


477 


-were  in  those  quarters,  he  took  and  circumcised 
him."  Thus,  as  these  mixtures  of  Jews  and 
Gentiles  took  place,  the  Law  began  gradually 
to  be  dissolved.  And  mark  in  how  many  ways 
he  shows  that  he  did  not  despise  him.  "  I 
serve  God,"  he  says,  "  I  have  a  true  conscience  " 
for  my  part,  and  thou  hast  thy  "  tears,"  and  not 
thy  tears  only,  but  for  "  thy  faith,"  because  thou 
art  a  laborer  for  the  Truth,  because  there  is  no 
deceit  in  thee.  As  therefore  thou  showest  thy- 
self worthy  of  love,  being  so  affectionate,  so 
genuine  a  disciple  of  Christ ;  and  as  I  am  not 
one  of  those  who  are  devoid  of  affection,  but 
of  those  who  earnestly  pursue  the  Truth ;  what 
hindered  me  from  coming  to  thee  ? 

"  And  I  am  persuaded  that  in  thee  also." 

From  the  beginning,  he  means,  thou  hast  had 
this  excellency.  Thou  receivedst  from  thy  fore- 
fathers the  faith  unfeigned.  For  the  praises  of 
our  ancestors,  when  we  share  in  them,  redound 
also  to  us.  Otherwise  they  avail  nothing,  but 
rather  condemn  us ;  wherefore  he  has  said,  "  I 
am  persuaded  that  in  thee  also."  It  is  not  a 
conjecture,  he  means,  it  is  my  persuasion;  I 
am  fully  assured  of  it.  If  therefore  from  no 
human  motive  thou  hast  embraced  it,  nothing 
will  be  able  to  shake  thy  faith. 

Ver.  6.  "Wherefore  I  put  thee  in  remem- 
brance that  thou  stir  up  the  gift  of  God,  which 
is  in  thee  by  the  putting  on  of  my  hands." 

You  see  how  greatly  dispirited  and  dejected 
he  considers  him  to  be.  He  almost  says,  "Think 
not  that  I  despise  thee,  but  be  assured  that  I 
do  not  condemn  thee,  nor  have  I  forgotten  thee. 
Consider,  at  any  rate,  thy  mother  and  thy  grand- 
mother. It  is  because  I  know  that  thou  hast 
unfeigned  faith  that  I  put  thee  in  remembrance." 
For  it  requires  much  zeal  to  stir  up  the  gift  of 
God.  As  fire  requires  fuel,  so  grace  requires 
our  alacrity,  that  it  may  be  ever  fervent.  "  I 
put  thee  in  remembrance  that  thou  stir  up  the 
gift  of  God,  that  is  in  thee  by  the  putting  on 
of  my  hands,"  that  is,  the  grace  of  the  Spirit, 
which  thou  hast  received,  for  presiding  over  the 
Church,  for  the  working  of  miracles,  and  for 
every  service.  For  this  grace  it  is  in  our  power  to 
kindle  or  to  extinguish  ;  wherefore  he  elsewhere 
says, "  Quench  not  the  Spirit."  ( i  Thess.  v.  19.) 
For  by  sloth  and  carelessness  it  is  quenched,  and 
by  watchfulness  and  diligence  it  is  kept  alive. 
For  it  is  in  thee  indeed,  but  do  thou  render  it 
more  vehement,  that  is,  fill  it  with  confidence, 
with  joy  and  delight.     Stand  manfully. 

Ver.  7.  "  For  God  hath  not  given  us  the  spirit 
of  fear,  but  of  power,  and  of  love,  and  of  a  sound 
mind." 

That  is,  we  did  not  receive  the  Spirit,  that  we 
should  shrink  from  exertion,  but  that  we  may 
speak  with  boldness.  For  to  many  He  gives  a 
spirit  of  fear,  as  we  read  in  the  wars  of  the  Kings. 


"  A  spirit  of  fear  fell  upon  them."  (Ex.  xv. 
16?)  That  is,  he  infused  terror  into  them. 
But  to-  thee  He  has  given,  on  the  contrary,  a 
spirit  of  power,  and  of  love  toward  Himself. 
This,  then,  is  of  grace,  and  yet  not  merely  of 
grace,  but  when  we  have  first  performed  our 
own  parts.  For  the  Spirit  that  maketh  us  cry, 
"Abba,  Father,"  inspires  us  with  love  both 
towards  Him,  and  towards  our  neighbor,  that 
we  may  love  one  another.  For  love  arises  from 
power,  and  from  not  fearing.  For  nothing  is  so 
apt  to  dissolve  love  as  fear,  and  a  suspicion  of 
treachery. 

"For  God  hath  not  given  us  the  spirit  of 
fear,  but  of  power,  and  of  love,  and  of  a  sound 
mind  "  : l  he  calls  a  healthy  state  of  the  soul  a 
sound  mind,  or  it  may  mean  sobriety  of  mind, 
or  else  a  sobering  of  the  mind,  that  we  may  be 
sober-minded,  and  that  if  any  evil  befall  us,  it 
may  sober  us,  and  cut  off  superfluities. 

Moral.  Let  us  then  not  be  distressed  at  the 
evils  that  happen  to  us.  This  is  sobriety  of 
mind.  "  In  the  season  of  temptation,"  he  says, 
"  make  not  haste."  (Ecclus.  ii.  2.)  Many  have 
their  several  griefs  at  home,  and  we  share  in 
each  other's  sorrows,  though  not  in  their  sources. 
For  one  is  unhappy  on  account  of  his  wife,  an- 
other on  account  of  his  child,  or  his  domestic, 
another  of  his  friend,  another  of  his  enemy,  an- 
other of  his  neighbor,  another  from  some  loss. 
And  various  are  the  causes  of  sorrow,  so  that 
we  can  find  no  one  free  from  trouble  and  un- 
happiness  of  some  kind  or  other,  but  some  have 
greater  sorrows  and  some  less.  Let  us  not  there- 
fore be  impatient,  nor  think  ourselves  only  to 
be  unhappy. 

For  there  is  no  such  thing  in  this  mortal  life 
as  being  exempt  from  sorrow.  If  not  to-day, 
yet  to-morrow;  if  not  to-morrow,  yet  some 
later  day  trouble  comes.  For  as  one  cannot 
sail,  I  mean,  over  a  long  sea,  and  not  feel  dis- 
quietude, so  it  is  not  possible  to  pass  through 
this  life,  without  experience  of  sorrow,  yea 
though  you  name  a  rich  man ;  for  in  that  he  is 
rich,  he  hath  many  occasions  of  inordinate  de- 
sires,2 yea,  though  the  king  himself,  since  he  too 
is  ruled  by  many,  and  cannot  do  all  that  he 
would.  Many  favors  he  grants  contrary  to  his 
wishes,  and  more  than  all  men  is  obliged  to  do 
what  he  would  not.  How  so?  Because  he  has 
many  about  him  who  wish  to  receive  his  gifts. 
And  just  think  how'^reat  is  his  chagrin,  when 
he  is  desirous  to  effect  something,  but  is  unable, 
either  frdm  fear  or  suspicion,  or  hindered  by 
enemies  or  by  friends.  Often  when  he  has  suc- 
ceeded in  achieving  some  end,  he  loses  all  the. 
pleasure  of  it,  from  many  becoming  at  enmity 

1  <rm&f>ovi<rtiov. 

3  6.  and  Sav.  M ar.  «4vui»i',  "  of  dejections."    Edd.  i*i9vni**r. 

s  Sav.  Tr.  "  and  how  great." 


478 


WORKS   OF   ST.    CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  I. 


with  him.  Again,  do  you  think  that  they  are 
free  from  grief,  who  live  a  life  of  ease  ?  It  is 
impossible.  As  a  man  cannot  escape  death, 
so  neither  can  he  escape  sorrow.  How  many 
troubles  must  they  endure,  which  we  cannot 
express  in  words,  and  which  they  only  can  know 
by  experience  !  How  many  have  prayed  a 
thousand  times  to  die,  in  the  midst  of  their 
wealth  and  luxury !  For  luxury  by  no  means 
puts  men  out  of  the  reach  of  grief:  it  is  rather 
the  very  thing  to  produce  sorrows,  diseases,  and 
uneasiness,  often  when  there  is  no  real  ground 
for  it.  For  when  such  is  the  habit  of  the  soul, 
it  is  apt  to  grieve  even  without  a  cause.  Physi- 
cians say  that  from  a  weak  state  of  the  stomach 
arise  sorrows l  without  any  occasion ;  and  does 
not  the  like  happen  to  ourselves,  to  feel  uneasy, 
without  knowing  any  cause  for  it  ?  In  short,  we 
can  find  no  one  who  is  exempted  from  sorrow. 
And  if  he  has  less  occasion  for  grief  than  our- 
selves, yet  he  thinks  otherwise,  for  he  feels  his 
own  sorrows,  more  than  those  of  other  men. 
As  they  who  suffer  pain  in  any  part  of  their 
bodies,  think  that  their  sufferings  exceed  their 
neighbor's.  He  that  has  a  disease  of  the  eye, 
thinks  there  is  nothing  so  painful,  and  he  that 
has  a  disorder  in  the  stomach,  considers  that 
the  sorest  of  diseases,  and  each  thinks  that  the 
heaviest  of  sufferings,  with  which  he  is  himself 
afflicted.  So  it  is  with  sorrow,  each  thinks  his 
own  present  grief  the  most  severe.  For  of  this 
he  judges  by  his  own  experience.  He  that  is 
childless  considers  nothing  so  sad  as  to  be  with- 
out children;  he  that  is  poor,  and  has  many 
children,  complains  of  the  extreme  evils  of  a 
large  family.  He  who  has  but  one,  looks  upon 
this  as  the  greatest  misery,  because  that  one, 
being  set  too  much  store  by,  and  never  cor- 
rected, becomes  willful,  and  brings  grief  upon 
his  father.  He  who  has  a  beautiful  wife,  thinks 
nothing  so  bad  as  having  a  beautiful  wife,  be- 
cause it  is  the  occasion  of  jealousy  and  intrigue. 
He  who  has  an  ugly  one,  thinks  nothing  worse 
than  having  a  plain  wife,  because  it  is  constantly 
disagreeable.  The  private  man  thinks  nothing 
more  mean,  more  useless,  than  his  mode  of  life. 
The  soldier  declares  that  nothing  is  more  toil- 
some, more  perilous,  than  warfare ;  that  it  would 
be  better  to  live  on  bread  and  water  than  endure 
such  hardships.  He  that  is  in  power  thinks 
there  can  be  no  greater  burden  than  to  attend 
to  the  necessities  of  others.  He  that  is  subject 
to  that  power,  thinks  nothing  more  servile  than 
living  at  the  beck  of  others.  The  married  man 
considers  nothing  worse  than  a  wife,  and  the 
cares  of  marriage.  The  unmarried  declares 
there  is  nothing  so  wretched  as  being  unmarried, 
and  wanting  the  repose  of  a  home.     The  mer- 


1  Or,  "  pains." 


chant  thinks  the  husbandman  happy  in  his  se- 
curity. The  husbandman  thinks  the  merchant  so 
in  his  wealth.  In  short,  all  mankind  are  some- 
how hard  to  please,  and  discontented  and  impa- 
tient. When  condemning  the  whole  race,  he  saith, 
"  Man  is  a  thing  of  nought "  (Ps.  cxliv.  4),  imply- 
ing that  the  whole  kind  is  a  wretched  unhappy 
creature.  How  many  long  for  old  age  !  How 
many  think  youth  a  happy  time !  Thus  each 
different  period  has  its  unhappiness.  When  we 
find  ourselves  censured  on  account  of  our  youth, 
we  say,  why  are  we  not  old?  and  when  our 
heads  are  hoary,  we  ask  whither  has  our  youth 
flown?  Numberless,  in  short,  are  the  occasions 
of  sorrow.  There  is  one  path  only  by  which 
this  unevenness  can  be  escaped.  It  is  the  path 
of  virtue.  Yet  that  too  has  its  sorrows,  only 
they  are  sorrows  not  unprofitable,  but  produc- 
tive of  gain  and  advantage.  For  if  any  one  has 
sinned,  he  washes  away  his  sin  by  the  compunc- 
tion that  comes  of  his  sorrow.  Or,  if  he  has 
grieved  in  sympathizing  with  a  fallen  brother, 
this  is  not  without  its  recompense.  For  sym- 
pathy with  those  that  are  in  misery  gives  us 
great  confidence  towards  God. 

Hear  therefore  what  philosophy  is  taught  by 
the  example  of  Job  in,  holy  Scripture  !  Hear 
also  what  Paul  saith :  "  Weep  with  them  that 
weep  "  ;  and  again,  "  Condescend  to  men  of  low 
estate."  (Rom.  xii.  15,  16.)  For,  by  the  com- 
munication of  sorrow,  the  extreme  burden  of  it 
is  lightened.  For  as  in  the  case  of  a  heavy 
load,  he  that  bears  part  of  the  weight  relieves 
him  who  was  bearing  it  alone,  so  it  is  in  all 
other  things. 

But  now,  when  any  one  of  our  relatives  dies, 
there  are  many  who  sit  by  and  console  us.  Nay, 
we  often  raise  up  even  an  ass  that  has  fallen ; 
but  when  the  souls  of  our  brethren  are  falling, 
we  overlook  them  and  pass  by,  as  if  they  were 
of  less  value  than  an  ass.  And  if  we  see  any 
one  entering  into  a  tavern  indecendy ;  nay,  if  we 
see  him  drunk,  or  guilty  of  any  other  unseemly 
action,  we  do  not  restrain  him,  we  rather  join 
him  in  it.  Whence  Paul  has  said  :  "  They  not 
only  do  these  things,  but  have  pleasure  in  them 
that  do  them."  (Rom.  i.  32.)  The  greater 
part  even  form  associations2  for  the  purposes  of 
drunkenness.  But  do  thou,  O  man,  form  asso- 
ciations to  restrain  the  madness  of  inebriety. 
Such  friendly  doings  are  beneficial  to  those  who 
are  in  bonds  or  in  affliction.  Something  of  this 
kind  Paul  enjoined  to  the  Corinthians,  alluding 
to  which  he  says,  "  That  there  be  no  gatherings 
when  I  come."  (1  Cor.  xvi.  2.)  But  now  every- 
thing is  done  with  a  view  to  luxury,  reveling, 
and  pleasure.  We  have  a  common  seat,  a  com- 
mon table,  we  have  wine  in  common,  and  com- 

*  WfifiopiaK.  See  on  Stat.  Horn.  xi.  fin.  See  also  St-  Chry Sof- 
tool's advice  to  Clubs,  on  Rom.  xiii.  14,  Horn.  xxiv.  14. 


Homily  II.] 


HOMILIES   ON   TIMOTHY. 


479 


mon  expenses,  but  we  have  no  community  of 
alms.  Such  were  the  friendly  doings  in  the 
time  of  the  Apostles;  they  brought  all  their 
goods  into  the  common  stock.  Now  I  do  not 
require  you  to  bestow  all,  but  some  part.  "  Let 
each  lay  by  him  in  store  on  the  first  day  of  the 
week,  as  God  has  prospered  him,"  and  lay  it 
down  as  a  tribute  for  the  seven  days.  In  this 
way  give  alms,  whether  more  or  less.  "  For 
thou  shalt  not  appear  before  the  Lord  empty." 
(Ex.  xxiii.  15.)  This  was  said  to  the  Jews,  how 
much  more  then  to  us.  For  this  cause  the  poor 
stand  before  the  doors,  that  no  one  may  enter 
empty,  but  each  may  do  alms  at  his  entrance. 
Thou  enterest  to  implore  mercy.  First  show 
mercy.  He  that  comes  later  owes  the  more. 
For  when  we  have  been  first,  he  that  is  second 
pays  down  more.1  Make  God  thy  debtor,  and 
then  offer  thy  prayers.  Lend  to  Him,  and  then 
ask  a  return,  and  thou  shalt  receive  it  with  usury. 
God  wills  this,  and  does  not  retract.  If  thou  ask 
with  alms,  He  holds  himself  obliged.  If  thou 
ask  with  alms,  thou  lend  est  and  receivest  inter-- 
est.  Yes,  I  beseech  you  !  It  is  not  for  stretch- 
ing out  thy  hands  thou  shalt  be  heard  !  stretch 
forth  thy  hands,  not  to  heaven,  but  to  the  poor. 
If  thou  stretch  forth  thy  hand  to  the  hands  of 


the  poor,  thou  hast  reached  the  very  summit  of 
heaven.  For  He  who  sits  there  receives  thine 
alms.  But  if  thou  liftest  them  up  without  a  gift, 
thou  gainest  nothing.  If  the  king,  arrayed  in 
purple,  should  come  to  thee  and  ask  an  alms, 
wouldest  thou  not  readily  give  all  that  thou  hast  ? 
But  now  when  thou  art  entreated  through  the 
poor,  not  by  an  earthly  but  a  heavenly  King, 
dost  thou  stand  regardless,  and  defer  thy  gift  ? 
What  punishment  then  dost  thou  not  deserve? 
For  the  being  heard  depends  not  upon  the  lift- 
ing up  of  thy  hands,  nor  on  the  multitude  of  thy 
words,  but  upon  thy  works.  For  hear  the 
prophet,  "  When  ye  "  spread  "  forth  your  hands, 
I  will  hide  mine  eyes  from  you :  yea,  when  ye 
make  many  prayers,  I  will  not  hear."  (Isa.  i.  15.) 
For  he  ought  to  be  silent,  who  needs  mercy,  and 
not  even  to  look  up  to  heaven ;  he  that  hath 
confidence  may  say  3  much.  But  what  says  the 
Scripture,  "Judge  for  the  fatherless,  plead  for 
the  widow,  learn  to  do  good."  (Isa.  i.  17.)  In 
this  way  we  shall  be  heard,  though  we  lift  not  up 
our  hands,  nor  utter  a  word,  nor  make  request. 
In  these  things  then  let  us  be  zealous,  that  we 
may  obtain  the  promised  blessings,  through  the 
grace  and  lovingkindness,  &c. 


HOMILY    II. 


2  Timothy  i.  8-10. 


•*  Be  not  thou  therefore  ashamed  of  the  testimony  of  our 
Lord,  nor  of  me  His  prisoner :  but  be  thou  partaker 
of  the  afflictions  of  the  Gospel  according  to  the 
power  of  God;  Who  hath  saved  us,  and  called  us 
with  an  holy  calling,  not  according  to  our  works,  but 
according  to  His  own  purpose  and  grace,  which  was 
given  us  in  Christ  Jesus  before  the  world  began ;  but 
is  now  made  manifest  by  the  appearing  of  our  Sav- 
iour Jesus  Christ." 

There  is  nothing  worse  than  that  man  should 
measure  and  judge  of  divine  things  by  human 
reasonings.  For  thus  he  will  fall  from  that  rock2 
a  vast  distance,  and  be  deprived  of  the  light. 
For  if  he  who  wishes  with  human  eyes  to  appre- 
hend the  rays  of  the  sun  will  not  only  not  appre- 
hend them,  but,  besides  this  failure,  will  sustain 
great  injury ;  so,  but  in  a  higher  degree,  is  he 
in  a  way  to  suffer  this,  and  abusing  the  gift  of 
God,  who  would  by  human  reasonings  gaze  in- 
tently on  that  Light.  Observe  accordingly  how 
Marcion,  and  Manes,  and  Valentinus,  and  others 
who  introduced  their  heresies   and  pernicious 

1  He  means  in  human  transactions,  where  money  advanced  al- 
ways has  a  certain  value  beyond  a  deferred  payment. 

3  ir«rpa«,  the  rock  of  faith,  but  one  suspects  irctpac, "  that  en- 
deavor," to  be  the  true  reading. 


doctrines4  into  the  Church  of  God,  measuring 
divine  things  by  human  reasonings,  became 
ashamed  of  the  Divine  economy.  Yet  it  was 
not  a  subject  for  shame,  but  rather  for  glorying; 
I  speak  of  the  Cross  of  Christ.  For  there  is 
not  so  great  a  sign  of  the  love  of  God  for  man- 
kind, not  heaven,  nor  sea,  nor  earth,  nor  the 
creation  of  all  things  out  of  nothing,  nor  all  else 
beside,  as  the  Cross.  Hence  it  is  the  boast  of 
Paul,  "  God  forbid  that  I  should  glory,  save  in 
the  Cross  of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ.' '  (Gal.  vi. 
14.)  But  natural  men,  and  those  who  attribute 
to  God  no  more  than  to  human  beings,  stumble, 
and  become  ashamed.  Wherefore  Paul  from 
the  first  exhorts  his  disciple,  and  through  him 
all  others,  in  these  words  :  "  Be  not  thou  ashamed 
of  the  testimony  of  our  Lord,"  that  is,5  "  Be  not 
ashamed,  that  thou  preachest  One  that  was  cru- 

8  Gr.  "  says/'  but  he  means  "  with  propriety,"  for  vappijo-tar 
*X*>y  is  *he  usual  expression  for  one  who  has  real  claims.  B.  reads 
6  oi  w«  trap.,  "  but  this  man,  as  if  he  had  claims." 

4  B.  "  those  who  save  birth  to  the  other  heresies,  and  introduced 
pernicious  doctrines. ' 

8  B.  "  He  means  the  death  of  Christ."  The  word  "  Testimony  " 
might  be  rendered  "  Martyrdom,"  and  such  is  the  original  idea  of 
Martyrdom:  see  Euseb.  Eccl.  Hut.  v.  s. 


480 


WORKS   OF   ST.    CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  II. 


cified,  but  rather  glory  in  it."  For  in  them- 
selves death  and  imprisonment  and  chains  are 
matters  of  shame  and  reproach.  But  when  the 
cause  is  added  before  us,  and  the  mystery  viewed 
aright,  they  will  appear  full  of  dignity,  and  mat- 
ter for  boasting.  For  it  was  that  death  which 
saved  the  world,  when  it  was  perishing.  That 
death  connected  earth  with  heaven,  that  death 
destroyed  the  power  of  the  devil,  and  made 
men  angels,  and  sons  of  God  :  that  death  raised 
our  nature  to  the  kingly  throne.  Those  chains 
were  the  conversion  of  many.  "  Be  not "  there- 
fore "  ashamed,"  he  says,  "  of  the  testimony  of 
our  Lord,  nor  of  me  His  prisoner :  but  be  thou 
partaker  of  the  afflictions  of  the  Gospel" ;  that 
is,  though  thou  shouldest  suffer  the  same  things, 
be  not  thou  ashamed.  For  that  this  is  implied 
appears  from  what  he  said  above ;  "  God  hath 
given  us  a  spirit  of  power,  and  of  love,  and  of  a 
sound  mind  "  \  and  by  what  follows,  "  Be  thou 
partaker  of  the  sufferings  of  the  Gospel "  :  not 
merely  be  not  ashamed  of  them,  but  be  not 
ashamed  even  to  experience  them. 

And  he  does  not  say,  "  Do  not  fear,"  but,  the 
more  to  encourage  him,  "  be  not  ashamed,"  as  if 
there  were  no  further  danger,  if  he  could  over- 
come the  shame.  For  shame  is  only  then  oppres- 
sive, when  one  is  overcome  by  it.  Be  not  there- 
fore ashamed,  if  I,  who  raised  the  dead,  who 
wrought  miracles,  who  traversed  the  world,  am 
now  a  prisoner.  For  I  am  imprisoned,  not  as  a 
malefactor,  but  for  the  sake  of  Him  who  was 
crucified.  If  my  Lord  was  not  ashamed  of  the 
Cross,  neither  am  I  of  chains.  And  with  great 
propriety,  when  he  exhorts  him  not  to  be 
ashamed,  he  reminds  him  of  the  Cross.  If  thou 
art  not  ashamed  of  the  Cross,  he  means,  neither 
be  thou  of  chains ;  if  our  Lord  and  Master 
endured  the  Cross,  much  more  should  we  chains. 
For  he  who  is  ashamed  of  what  He  endured,  is 
ashamed  of  Him  that  was  crucified.  Now  it  is 
not  on  my  own  account  that  I  bear  these  chains ; 
therefore  do  not  give  way  to  human  feelings, 
but  bear  thy  part  in  these  sufferings.  "  Be  par- 
taker of  the  afflictions  of  the  Gospel."  He  says 
not  this,  as  if  the  Gospel  could  suffer  injury,  but 
to  excite  his  disciple  to  suffer  for  it. 

"  According  to  the  power  of  God  ;  Who  hath 
fsaved  us,  and  called  us  with  a  holy  calling,  not 
according  to  our  works,  but  according  to  His 
own  purpose  and  grace,  which  was  given  us  in 
Christ  Jesus  before  the  world  began." 

More  especially  because  it  was  a  hard  thing  to 
say,  "  Be  partakers  of  afflictions,"  he  again  con- 
soles him.1  Reckon  that  thou  sustainest  these 
things,  not  by  thine  own  power,  but  by  the  power 
of  God.  For  it  is  thy  part  to  choose  and  to  be 
zealous,  but  God's  to  alleviate  sufferings  and  bid 

1  Thus  Old  Lat.  and  B.  The  printed  copies  add,  "  by  saying, 
'  Not  according  to  our  works,'  that  is,"  which  is  not  to  the  purpose. 


them  cease.8  He  then  shows  him  the  proofs  of 
His  power.  Consider  how  thou  wast  saved,  how 
thou  wast  called.  As  he  elsewhere  says,  "Accord- 
ing to  His  power  that  worketh  in  us."  (Eph. 
iii.  20.)  So  much  was  it  a  greater  exercise  of 
power  to  persuade  the  world  to  believe,  than  to 
make  the  Heavens.  But  how  was  he  "called 
with  a  holy  calling"?8  This  means,  He  made 
them  saints,  who  were  sinners  and  enemies. 
"And  this  not  of  ourselves,  it  was  the  gift  of 
God."  If  then  He  is  mighty  in  calling  us,  and 
good,  in  that  He  hath  done  it  of  grace  and  not 
of  debt,  we  ought  not  to  fear.  For  He  Who, 
when  we  should  have  perished,4  saved  us,  though 
enemies,  by  grace,  will  He  not  much,  more  co- 
operate with  us,  when  He  sees  us  working? 
"  Not  according  to  our  own  works,"  he  says, 
"  but  according  to  his  own  purpose  and  grace," 
that  is,  no  one  compelling,  no  one  counseling 
Him,  but  of  His  own  purpose,  from  the  impulse 
of  His  own  goodness,  He  saved  us ;  for  this  is 
the  meaning  of  "  according  to  His  own  purpose." 
"  Which  was  given  us  before  the  world  began." 
That  is,  it  was  determined  without  beginning 
that  these  things  should  be  done  in  Christ  Jesus. 
This  is  no  light  consideration,  that  from  the  first 
He  willed  it.  It  was  not  an  after- thought. 
How  then  is  not  the  Son  eternal  ?  for  He  also 
willed  it  from  the  beginning. 

Ver.  10.  "  But  is  now  made  manifest  by  the 
appearing  of  our  Saviour  Jesus  Christ,  Who  hath 
abolished  death,  and  hath  brought  life  and  im- 
mortality to  light  by  the  Gospel." 

Thou  seest  the  power,  thou  seest  the  gift 
bestowed  not  by  works,  but  through  the  Gos- 
pel. These  are  objects  of  hope  :  for  both  were 
wrought  in  His  Body.  And  how  will  they  be 
wrought  in  ours?    "By  the  Gospel." 

Ver.  11.  "Whereunto  I  am  appointed  a 
preacher  and  an  Apostle,  and  a  teacher  of  the 
Gentiles." 

Why  does  he  so  constantly  repeat  this,  and 
call  himself  a  teacher  of  the  Gentiles  ?  Because 
he  wishes  to  persuade  them  that  they  also  ought 
to  draw  close  to  the  Gentiles.  Be  not  therefore 
dismayed' at  my  sufferings.  The  sinews  of  death 
are  unstrung.  It  is  not  as  a  malefactor  that  I 
suffer,  but  because  I  am  "  a  teacher  of  the  Gen- 
tiles." At  the  same  time  he  makes  his  discourse 
worthy  of  credit. 

Ver.  12.  "  For  the  which  cause  I  also  suffer 
these  things,  nevertheless  I  am  not  ashamed. 
For  I  know  Whom  I  have  believed,  and  am  per- 
suaded that  He  is  able  to  keep  that  which  I 
have  committed  unto  Him  against  that  day." 

"  I  am  not  ashamed,"  he  says.  For  are 
chains,  are  sufferings,  a  matter  for  shame  ?    Be 

*  B.  omits  "  but,"  &c. 

a  Sav.  How  was  he  called?    "  With  a  holy  calling." 

«  So  B.  Edd.  "  when  we  needed  to  be  sarcd." 


Homily  II.] 


HOMILIES   ON   TIMOTHY. 


481 


not  then  ashamed !  Thou  seest  how  he  illus- 
trates his  teaching  by  his  works.  "These 
things,"  he  says,  "  I  suffer " :  I  am  cast  into 
prison,  I  am  banished ;  "  For  I  know  Whom  I 
have  believed,  and  am  persuaded  that  He  is 
able  to  keep  that  which  I  have  committed  to 
Him l  against  That  Day."  What  is  *  "  that  which 
is  committed"?8  The  faith,  the  preaching  of 
the  Gospel.  He,  who  committed  this  to  him, 
he  says,  will  preserve  it  unimpaired.  I  suffer 
everything,  that  I  may  not  be  despoiled  of  this 
treasure,  and  I  am  not  ashamed  at  these  things, 
so  long  as  it  is  preserved  uninjured.  Or  he  calls 
the  Faithful  the  charge  which  God  committed 
to  him,  or  which  he  committed  to  God.  For 
he  says,  "Now  I  commit  you  to  the  Lord." 
(Acts  xx.  32.)  That  is,  these  things  will  not  be 
unprofitable  to  me.  And  in  Timothy  is  seen  the 
fruit  of  the  charge  thus  "  committed."  You  see 
that  he  is  insensible  to  sufferings,  from  the  hope 
that  he  entertains  of  his  disciples. 

Moral.  Such  ought  a  Teacher  to  be,  so  to 
regard  his  disciples,  to  think  them  everything. 
"  Now  we  live,"  he  says,  "  if  ye  stand  fast  in  the 
Lord."  And  again,  "  What  is  our  hope,  or  joy, 
or  crown  of  rejoicing?  are  not  even  ye  in  the 
presence  of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ  ?  "  ( 1  Thess. 
iii.  8,  and  ii.  19.)  You  see  his  anxiety  in 
this  matter,  his  regard  for  the  good  of  his  dis- 
ciples, not  less  than  for  his  own.4  For  teach- 
ers ought  to  surpass  natural  parents,  to  be  more 
zealous  than  they.  And  it  becomes  their  chil- 
dren to  be  kindly  affectioned  towards  them. 
For  he  says,  "Obey  them  that  have  the  rule 
over  you,  and  submit  yourselves :  for  they  watch 
for  your  souls  as  they  that  must  give  account." 
(Heb.  xiii.  17.)  For  say,  is  he  subject  to  so 
dangerous  a  responsibility,  and  art  thou  not  will- 
ing to  obey  him,  and  that  too,  for  thy  own  bene- 
fit? For  though  his  own  state  should  be  good, 
yet  as  long  as  thou  art  in  a  bad  condition  his 
anxiety  continues,  he  has  a  double  account  to 
render.  And  consider  what  it  is  to  be  respon- 
sible and  anxious  for  each  of  those  who  are 
under  his  rule.  What  honor  wouldest  thou  have 
reckoned  equal,  what  service,  in  requital  of  such 
dangers?  Thou  canst  not  offer  an  equivalent. 
For  thou  hast  not  yet  devoted  thy  soul  for  him, 
but  he  lays  down  his  life  for  thee,  and  if  he  lays 
it  not  down  here,  when  the  occasion  requires  it, 
he  loses  it  There.  But  thou  art  not  willing  to 
submit  even  in  words.  This  is  the  prime  cause 
of  all  these  evils,  that  the  authority  of  rulers  is 
neglected,  that  there  is  no  reverence,  no  fear. 
He  says,  "  Obey  them  that  have  the  rule  over 
you,  and  submit  yourselves."     But  now  all  is 


1  Lit.  "  my  deposit."  ^  • 

3  Sav.  has  ri  <tt>  ir.,  Ben.  ri  «<m,  B.  ii?  if,  which  last  is  best. 

3  vapaKaTaOijmi. 

4  al.  "  no  less  than  for  his  own  kindred." 


turned  upside  down  and  confounded.  And  this 
I  say  not  for  the  sake  of  the  rulers ;  (for  what 
benefit  will  they  have  of  the  honor  they  receive 
from  us,5  except  so  far  as  we  are  rendered 
obedient;)  but  I  say  it  for  your  advantage. 
For  with  respect  to  the  future,  they  will  not  be 
benefited  by  the  honor  done  them,  but  receive 
the  greater  condemnation,  neither  will  they  be 
injured  as  to  the  future  by  ill  treatment,  but  will 
have  the  more  excuse.  But  all  this  I  desire  to 
be  done  for  your  own  sakes.  For  when  rulers 
are  honored  by  their  people,  this  too  is  reckoned 
against  them ;  as  in  the  case  of  Eli  it  is  said, 
"  Did  I  not  choose  him  out  of  his  father's 
house?"  (1  Sam.  ii.  27.)  But  when  they  are 
insulted,  as  in  the  instance  of  Samuel,  God  said, 
"They  have  not  rejected  thee,  but  they  have 
rejected  Me."  (1  Sam.  viii.  7.)  Therefore  in- 
sult is  their  gain,  honor  their  burden.  What  I 
say,  therefore,  is  for  your  sakes,  not  for  theirs. 
He  that  honors  the  Priest,  will  honor  God  also ; 
and  he  who  has  learnt  to  despise  the  Priest,  will 
in  process  of  time  insult  God.  "  He  that  re- 
ceiveth  you,"  He  saith,  "  receiveth  Me."  (Matt. 
x.  40.)  "  Hold  my  priests  in  honor  "  (Ecclus. 
vii.  31  ?),  He  says.  The  Jews  learned  to  despise 
God,  because  they  despised  Moses,  and  would 
have  stoned  him.  For  when  a  man  is  piously 
disposed  towards  the  Priest,  he  is  much  more  so 
towards  God.  And  even  if  the  Priest  be  wicked, 
God  seeing  that  thou  respectest  him,  though 
unworthy  of  honor,  through  reverence  to  Him, 
will  Himself  reward  thee.  For  if  "  he  that  re- 
ceiveth a  prophet  in  the  name  of  a  prophet  shall 
receive  a  prophet's  reward  "  (Matt.  x.  41)  ;  then 
he  who  honoreth  and  submitteth  and  giveth  way 
to  the  Priest  shall  certainly  be  rewarded.  For 
if  in  the  case  of  hospitality,  when  thou  knowest 
not  the  guest,  thou-  receivest  so  high  a  recom- 
pense, much  more  wilt  thou  be  requited,  if  thou 
obeyest  him  whom  He  requires  thee  to  obey. 
"  The  Scribes  and  Pharisees,"  He  says,  "  sit  in 
Moses'  seat ;  all  therefore,  whatsoever  they  bid 
you  observe,  that  observe  and  do,  but  do  not  ye 
after  their  works."  (Matt,  xxiii.  2,  3.)  Know- 
est thou  not  what  the  Priest  is?  He  is  an  Angel6 
of  the  Lord.  Are  they  his  own  words  that  he 
speaks?  If  thou  despisest  him,  thou  despisest 
not  him,  but  God  that  ordained  him.  But  how 
does  it  appear,  thou  askest,  that  he  is  ordained  of 
God  ?  Nay,  if  thou  suppose  it  otherwise,  thy  hope 
is  rendered  vain.  For  if  God  worketh  nothing 
through  his  means,  thou  neither  hast  any  Laver, 
nor  art  partaker  of  the  Mysteries,  nor  of  the  bene- 
fit of  Blessings ;  thou  art  therefore  not  a  Christian. 
What  then,  you  say,  does  God  ordain  all,  even  the 
unworthy?  God  indeed  doth  not  ordain  all,  but 
He  worketh  through  all,  though  they  be  thera- 

0  This  expression  shows  that  he  was  not  yet  Bishop. 
•  Or,  "  a  messenger." 


482 


WORKS   OF   ST.   CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  II. 


selves  unworthy,  that  the  people  may  be  saved. 
For  if  He  spoke,  for  the  sake  of  the  people,  by 
an  ass,  and  by  Balaam,  a  most  wicked  man,  much 
more  will  He  speak  by  the  mouth  of  the  Priest. 
What  indeed  will  not  God  do  or  say  for  our  salva- 
tion? By  whom  doth  He  not  act  ?  For  if  He 
wrought  through  Judas  and  those  other  that 
"  prophesied,"  to  whom  He  will  say, "  I  never  knew 
you  ;  depart  from  Me,  ye  workers  of  iniquity" 
(Matt.  vii.  22,23)  y  and  ifothers"  cast  out  devils" 
( Ps.  vi.  8)  ;  will  He  not  much  more  work  through 
the  Priests?  Since  if  we  were  to  make  inquisi- 
tion into  the  lives  of  our  rulers,  we  should  then 
become  the  ordainers l  of  our  own  teachers,  and 
all  would  be  confusion  ;  the  feet  would  be  upper- 
most, the  head  below.  Hear  Paul  saying,  "  But 
with  me  it  is  a  very  small  thing  that  I  should  be 
judged  of  you,  or  of  man's  judgment."  (1  Cor. 
iv.  3.)  And  again,  "Why  dost  thou  judge  thy 
brother?"  (Rom.  xiv.  10.)  For  if  we  may 
not  judge  our  brother,  much  less  our  teacher. 
If  God  commands  this  indeed,  thou  doest  well, 
and  sinnest  if  thou  do  it  not ;  but  if  the  contrary, 
dare  not  do  it,  nor  attempt  to  go  beyond  the 
lines  that  are  marked  out.  After  Aaron  had 
made  the  golden  calf,  Corah,  Dathan,  and  Abi- 
ram  raised  an  insurrection  against  him.  And 
did  they  not  perish?  Let  each  attend  to  his 
own  department.  For  if  he  teach  perverted 
doctrine,  though  he  be  an  Angel,  obey  him  not ; 
but  if  he  teach  the  truth,  take  heed  not  to  his 
life,  but  to  his  words.  Thou  hast  Paul  to  instruct 
thee  in  what  is  right  both  by  words  and  works. 
But  thou  sayest,  "  He  gives  not  to  the  poor,  he 
does  not  govern  well."  Whence  know  est  thou 
this  ?  Blame  not,  before  thou  art  informed.  Be 
afraid  of  the  great  account.  Many  judgments 
are  formed  upon  mere  opinion.  Imitate  thy 
Lord,  who  said,  "  I  will  go  down  now,  and  see 
whether  they  have  done  altogether  according  to 
the  cry  of  it,  and  if  not,  I  will  know."  (Gen. 
xviii.#2i.)  But  if  thou  hast  enquired,  and  in- 
formed thyself,  and  seen ;  yet  await  the  Judge, 
and  usurp  not  the  office  of  Christ.  To  Him  it 
belongs,  and  not  to  thee,  to  make  this  inquisi- 
tion. Thou  art  an  inferior  servant,  not  a  master. 
Thou  art  a  sheep,  be  not  curious  concerning  the 
shepherd,  lest  thou  have  to  give  account  of  thy 
accusations  against  him.  But  you  say,  How 
does  he  teach  me  that  which  he  does  not  prac- 
tice himself?  It  is  not  he  that  speaks  to  thee. 
If  it  be  he  whom  thou  obeyest,  thou  hast  no 
reward.  It  is  Christ  that  thus  admonishes  thee. 
And  what  do  I  say?  Thou  oughtest  not  to  obey 
even  Paul,  if  he  speaks  of  himself,  or  anythjng 
human,  but  the  Apostle,  that  has  Christ  speaking 
in  him.  Let  not  us  judge  one  another's  conduct, 
but  each  his  own.     Examine  thine  own  life. 

1  xeiporovrrrau. 


But  thou  sayest,  "  He  ought  to  be  better  than 
I."  Wherefore?  "Because  he  is  a  Priest." 
And  is  he  not  superior  to  thee  in  his  labors,  his 
dangers,  his  anxious  conflicts  and  troubles  ?  But 
if  he  is  not  better,  oughtest  thou  therefore  to 
destroy  thyself?  These  are  the  words  of  arro- 
gance.2 For  how  is  he  not  better  than  thyself? 
He  steals,  thou  sayest,  and  commits  sacrilege  ! 
How  knowest  thou  this?  Why  dost  thou  cast 
thyself  down  a  precipice?  If  thou  shouldest 
hear  it  said  that  such  an  one  hath  a  purple 
robe,3  though  thou  knewest  it  to  be  true,  and 
couldest  convict  him,  thou  declinest  to  do  it, 
and  pretendest  ignorance,  not  being  willing  to 
run  into  unnecessary  danger.  But  in  this  case 
thou  art  so  far  from  being  backward,  that  even 
without  cause  thou  exposest  thyself  to  the 
danger.  Nor  think  thou  art  not  responsible 
for  these  words.  Hear  what  Christ  says,  "  Every 
idle  word  that  men  shall  speak,  they  shall  give 
account  thereof  in  the  day  of  judgment."  (Matt, 
xii.  36.)  And  dost  thou  think  thyself  better  than 
another,  and  dost  thou  not  groan,  and  beat  thy 
breast,  and  bow  down  thy  head,  and  imitate  the 
Publican  ? 

And  then  thou  destroyest  thyself,  though  thou 
be  better.  Be  silent,  that  thou  cease  not  to  be 
better.  If  thou  speak  of  it,  thou  hast  done  away 
the  merit ;  if  thou  thinkest  it,  I  do  not  say  so ; 
if  thou  dost  not  think  it,  thou  hast  added  much. 
For  if  a  notorious  sinner,  when  he  confessed, 
"  went  home  justified,"  he  who  is  a  sinner  in  a 
less  degree,  and  is  conscious  of  it,  how  will  he 
not  be  rewarded  ?  Examine  thy  own  life.  Thou 
dost  not  steal ;  but  thou  art  rapacious,  and  over- 
bearing, and  guilty  of  many  other  such  things. 
I  say  not  this  to  defend  theft ;  God  forbid  !  I 
deeply  lament  if  there  is  any  one  really  guilty 
of  it,  but  I  do  not  believe  it.  How  great  an 
evil  is  sacrilege,  it  is  impossible  to  say.  But  I 
spare  you.  For  I  would  not  that  our  virtue 
should  be  rendered  vain  by  accusing  others. 
What  was  worse  than  the  Publican  ?  For  it  is 
true  that  he  was  a  publican,  and  guilty  of  many 
offenses,  yet  because  the  Pharisee  only  said,  "  I 
am  not  as  this  publican,"  he  destroyed  all  his 
merit.  I  am  not,  thou  sayest,  like  this  sacri- 
legious Priest.  And  dost  not  thou  make  all  in 
vain? 

This  I  am  compelled  to  say,  and  to  enlarge 
upon  in  my  discourse,  not  so  much  because  I  am 
concerned  for  them,  but  because  I  fear  for  you, 
lest  you  should  render  your  virtue  vain  by  this 
boasting  of  yourselves,  and  condemnation  of 
others.  For  hear  the  exhortation  of  Paul,  "  Let 
every  one  prove  his  own  work,  and  then  shall  he 
have  rejoicing  in  himself  alone,  and  not  in  an- 
other."   (Gal.  vi.  4.) 

*  Or,  "  desperation,"  if  it  be  taken  with  the  preceding  sentence. 
3  This  was  treason  in  a  subject.    See  Gibbon,  c.  xl. 


Homily  II.] 


HOMILIES   ON  TIMOTHY. 


483 


If  you  had  a  wound,  tell  me,  and  should 
go  to  a  physician,  would  you  stay  him  from 
salving  and  dressing  your  own  wound,  and  be 
curious  to  enquire  whether  the  physician  had  a 
wound,  or  not?  and  if  he  had,  would  you  mind 
it?  Or  because  he  had  it,  would  you  forbear 
dressing  your  own,  and  say,  A  physician  ought 
to  be  in  sound  health,  and  since  he  is  not  so,  I 
shall  let  my  wound  go  uncured  ?  For  will  it  be 
any  palliation l  for  him  that  is  under  .rule,  that 
his  Priest  is  wicked  ?  By  no  means.  He  will 
suffer  the  destined  punishment,  and  you  too  will 
meet  with  that  which  is  your  due.  For  the 
Teacher  now  only  fills  a  place.  For  "  it  is  writ- 
ten, They  shall  all  be  taught  of  God."  (John  vi. 
45  ;  Isa.  liv.  13.)  "  Neither  shall  they  say,  Know 
the  Lord.  For  all  shall  know  Me  from  the  least 
to  the  greatest. "  (Jer.  xxxi.  34.)  Why  then,  you 
will  say,  does  he  preside?  Why  is  he  set  over 
us?  I  beseech  you,  let  us  not  speak  ill  of 
our  teachers,  nor  call  them  to  so  strict  an  ac- 
count, lest  we  bring  evil  upon  ourselves.  I^t 
us  examine  ourselves,  and  we  shall  not  speak  ill 
of  others.  Let  us  reverence  that  day,  on  which 
he  enlightened2  us.  He  who  has  a  father,  what- 
ever faults  he  has,  conceals  them  all.  For  it  is 
said,  "  Glory  not  in  the  dishonor  of  thy  father  ; 
for  thy  father's  dishonor  is  no  glory  unto  thee. 
And  if  his  understanding  fail,  have  patience 
with  him."  (Ecclus.  iii.  10-12.)  And  if  this  be 
said  of  our  natural  fathers,  much  more  of  our 
spiritual  fathers.  Reverence  him,  in  that  he 
every  day  ministers  to  thee,  causes  the  Scrip- 
tures to  be  read,  sets  the  house  in  order  for 
thee,  watches  for  thee,  prays  for  thee,  stands  im- 
ploring God  on  thy  behalf,  offers  supplications 
for  thee,  for  thee  is  all  his  worship.  Reverence 
all  this,  think  of  this,  and  approach  him  with 
pious  respect.  Say  not,  he  is  wicked.  What  of 
that?  He  that  is  not  wicked,3  doth  he  of  him- 
self bestow  upon  thee  these  great  benefits  ?  By 
no  means.  Everything  worketh  according  to 
thy  faith.  Not  even  the  righteous  man  can 
benefit  thee,  if  thou  art  unfaithful,  nor  the  un- 
righteous harm  thee,  if  thou  art  faithful.  God, 
when  He  would  save  His  people,  wrought  for 
the  ark  by  Oxen.4  Is  it  the  good  life  or  the 
virtue  of  the  Priest  that  confers  so  much  on 
thee?  The  gifts  which  God  bestows  are  not 
such  as  to  be  effects  of  the  virtue  of  the 
Priest.     All    is  of  grace.      His   part   is  but  to 


1  napajjivdia. 

2  i.e.  baptized. 

3  Sav.  mar. "  he  that  is  wicked,"  which  supposes  the  objection  to 
be  somewhat  differently  put. 

4  1  Sam.  vi.  12. 


open  his  mouth,  while  God  worketh  all :  the 
Priest  only  performs  a  symbol.5  Consider 
how  wide  was  the  distance  between  John  and 
Jesus.  Hear  John  saying,  "  I  have  need  to 
be  baptized  of  Thee"  (Matt.  iii.  14),  and, 
"  Whose  shoe's  latchet  I  am  not  worthy  to  un- 
loose." (John  i.  27.)  Yet  notwithstanding  this- 
difference,  the  Spirit  descended.  Which  John 
had  not.  For  "  of  His  fullness,"  it  is  said,  "  we 
all  have  received."  (John  i.  16.)  Yet  neverthe- 
less, It  descended  not  till  He  was  baptized. 
But  neither  was  it  John  who  caused  It  to  de- 
scend. Why  then  is  this  done?  That  thou 
mayest  learn  that  the  Priest  performs  a  symbol.6 
No  man  differs  so  widely  from  another  man,  as 
John  from  Jesus,  tuid  yet  with  him 7  the  Spirit 
descended,  that  we  may  learn,  that  it  is  God 
who  worketh  all,  that  all  is  God's  doing.  I  am 
about  to  say  what  may  appear  strange,  but  be 
not  astonished  nor  startled  at  it.  The  Offering 
is  the  same,  whether  a  common  man,  or  Paul  or 
Peter  offer  it.  It  is  the  same  which  Christ  gave 
to  His  disciples,  and  which  the  Priests  now 
minister.  This  is  nowise  inferior  to  that,  be- 
cause it  is  not  men  that  sanctify  even  this,  but 
the  Same  who  sanctified  the  one  sanctifies  the 
other  also.  For  as  the  words  which  God  spake 
are  the  same  which  the  Priest  now  utters, 
so  is  the  Offering  the  same,  and  the  Baptism, 
that  which  He  gave.  Thus  the  whole  is  of 
faith.  The  Spirit  immediately  fell  upon  Cor- 
nelius, because  he  had  previously  fulfilled  his 
part,  and  contributed  his  faith.  And  this  is 
His  Body,  as  well  as  that.  And  he  who  thinks 
the  one  inferior  to  the  other,  knows  not  that 
Christ  even  now  is  present,  even  now  operates. 
Knowing  therefore  these  things,  which  we  have 
not  said  without  reason,  but  that  we  may  con- 
form your  minds  in  what  is  right,  and  render 
you  more  secure  for  the  future,  keep  carefully 
in  mind  what  has  been  spoken.  For  if  we  are 
always  hearers,  and  never  doers,  we  shall  reap 
no  advantage  from  what  is  said.  Let  us  there- 
fore attend  diligently  to  the  things  spoken.  Let 
us  imprint  them  upon  our  minds.  Let  us  have 
them  ever  engraved  upon  our  consciences,  and 
let  us  continually  ascribe  glory  to  the  Father, 
and  to  the  Son,  and  to  the  Holy  Ghost. 


8  <rv*i£oAo»'.  This  is  said  evidently  of  the  act  of  the  Priest  con- 
sidered in  itself*  and  as  distinct  from  the  accompanying  grace.  For 
St.  Chrysostom's  view  of  the  Priest's  responsibility,  see  his  Treatise 
on  the  Priesthood,  and  his  comments  on  i  Tim.  iii.  i,  &c. ,  &c. 

0  Suicer  collects  passages  on  this  word.  It  may  mean  "  a 
pledge,"  but  certainly  has  also  the  sense  of  "  symbol."  It  seems  to 
be  used  of  the  material  elements  before  and  after  consecration. 

7  in'  avrov. 


4»4 


WORKS   OF   ST.   CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  III. 


HOMILY    III. 


2  Timothy  i.  13-18. 


"  Hold  fast  the  form  of  sound  words,  which  thou  hast 
heard  of  me,  in  faith  and  love  which  is  in  Christ 
Jesus.  That  good  thing  which  was  committed  unto 
thee  keep  by  the  Holy  Ghost  Which  dwelleth  in  us. 
This  thou  knowest,  that  all  they  which  are  in  Asia 
be  turned  away  from  me;  of  whom  are  Phygellus 
and  Hermogenes.  The  Lord  give  mercy  unto  the 
house  of  Onesiphorus;  for  he  oft  refreshed  me,  and 
was  not  ashamed  of  my  chain :  but,  when  he  was  in 
Rome,  he  sought  me  out  very  diligently,  and  found 
me.  The  Lord  grant  unto  him  that  he  may  find 
mercy  of  the  Lord  in  that  day :  and  in  how  many 
things  he  ministered  unto  me  at  Ephesus,  thou 
knowest  very  weiL" 


Not  by  letters  alone  did  Paul  instruct  his 
disciple  in  his  duty,  but  before  by  words  also ; 
which  he  shows,  both  in  many  other  passages, 
as  where  he  says,  "whether  by  word  or  our 
Epistle"  (2  Thess.  ii.  15),  and  especially  here. 
Let  us  not  therefore  suppose  that  anything  relat- 
ing to  doctrine  was  spoken  imperfectly.  For 
many  things  he  delivered  to  him  without  writ- 
ing. Of  these  therefore  he  reminds  him,  when 
he  says,  "  Hold  fast  the  form  of  sound  words, 
which  thou  hast  heard  of  me."  After  the  man- 
ner of  artists,  I  have  impressed  on  thee  the 
image  of  virtue,  fixing  in  thy  soul  a  sort  of  rule, 
and  model,  and  outline  of  all  things  pleasing  to 
God.  These  things  then  hold  fast,  and  whether 
thou  art  meditating  any  matter  of  faith  or  love, 
or  of  a  sound  mind,  form  from  hence  your  ideas 
of  them.  It  will  not  be  necessary  to  have 
recourse  to  others  for  examples,  when  all  has 
been  deposited  within  thyself. 

"  That  good  thing  which  was  committed  unto 
thee  keep,"  —  how  ? — "by  the  Holy  Ghost  which 
dwelleth  in  us."  For  it  is  not  in  the  power  of  a 
human  soul,  when  instructed  with  things  so  great, 
to  be  sufficient  for  the  keeping  of  them.  And 
why  ?  Because  there  are  many  robbers,  and  thick 
darkness,  and  the  devil  still  at  hand  to  plot  against 
us ;  and  we  know  not  what  is  the  hour,  what  the 
occasion  for  him  to  set  upon  us.  How  then,  he 
means,  shall  we  be  sufficient  for  the  keeping  of 
them  ?  "  By  the  Holy  Ghost " ;  that  is  if  we 
have  the  Spirit1  with  us,  if  we  do  not  expel 
grace,  He  will  stand  by  us.  For,  "  Except  the 
Lord  build  the  house,  they  labor  in  vain  that 
build  it.  Except  the  Lord  keep  the  city,  the 
watchman  waketh  but  in  vain."  (Ps.  cxxvii.  1.) 
This  is  our  wall,  this  our  castle,  this  our  refuge. 
If  therefore  It  dwelleth  in  us,  and  is  Itself  our 
guard,  what  need  of  the  commandment  ?     That 

1  B.  and  Sav.  mar.  add  "  abiding." 


we  may  hold  It  fast,  may  keep  It,  and  not  ban- 
ish It  by  our  evil  deeds. 

Then  he  describes  his  trials  and  temptations, 
not  to  depress  his  disciple,  but  to  elevate  him, 
that  if  he  should  ever  fall  into  the  same,  he  may 
not  think  it  strange,  when  he  looks  back  and 
remembers  what  things  happened  to  his  Teacher. 
What  then  says  he  ?  Since  it  was  probable  that 
Timothy  might  be  apprehended,  and  be  deserted, 
and  be  relieved  by  no  friendly  attention,  or  influ- 
ence, or  assistance,  but  be  abandoned  even  by 
his  friends  and  the  faithful  themselves,  hear  what 
he  says,  "This  thou  knowest,  that  all  they  which 
are  in  Asia  be  turned  away  from  me."  It  seems 
that  there  were  then  in  Rome  many  persons  from 
the  regions  of  Asia.  "  But  no  one  stood  by  me," 
he  says,  no  one  acknowledged  me,  all  were 
alienated.  And  observe  the  philosophy  of  his 
soul.  He  only  mentions  their  conduct,  he  does 
not  curse  them,  but  he  praises  him  that  showed 
kindness  to  him,  and  invokes  a  thousand  bless- 
ings upon  him,  without  any  curse  on  them. 
"  Of  whom  is  Phygellus  and  Hermogenes.  The 
Lord  give  mercy  to  the  house  of  Onesiphorus, 
for  he  oft  refreshed  me,  and  was  not  ashamed  of 
my  chain.  But,  when  he  was  in  Rome,  he 
sought  me  out  diligently  and  found  me."  Ob- 
serve how  he  everywhere  speaks  of  the  shame, 
and  not  of  the  danger,  lest  Timothy  should  be 
alarmed.  And  yet  it  was  a  thing  that  was  full 
of  peril.  For  he  gave  offense  to  Nero  by  mak- 
ing friends  with  one  of  his  prisoners.2  But  when 
he  was  in  Rome,  he  says,  he  not  only  did  not 
shun  intercourse  with  me,  but  "  sought  me  out 
very  diligently,  and  found  me." 

"  The  Lord  grant  unto  him  that  he  may  find 
mercy  of  the  Lord  in  that  day :  and  in  how 
many  things  he  ministered  unto  me  at  Ephesus, 
thou  knowest  very  well." 

Such  ought  the  faithful  to  be.  Neither  fear, 
nor  threats,  nor  disgrace,  should  deter  them  from 
assisting  one  another,  standing  by  them  and 
succoring  them  as  in  war.  For  they  do  not 
so  much  benefit  those  who  are  in  danger,  as 
themselves,  by  the  service  they  render  to  them, 
making  themselves  partakers  of  the  crowns  due 
to  them.  For  example,  is  any  one  of  those  who 
are  devoted  to  God  visited  with  affliction  and 
distress,  and  maintaining  the  conflict  with  great 
fortitude  ;  whilst  thou  art  not  yet  brought3  to 
this  conflict?     It  is  in  thy  power  if  thou  wilt, 

*  Tiva  t£>v  ayaKtifityity  airry  ourcibHrajiepoc.     "  quod  qnendmm 
ex  familiar ibusque  sibi  attraxipet"  —  Montf. 
3  ciAxvtrdi??,  "  drawn."    See  on  Stat.  Horn.  i.  8. 


Homily  III.] 


HOMILIES   ON   TIMOTHY. 


485 


without  entering  into  the  course,  to  be  a  sharer 
of  the  crowns  reserved  for  him,  by  standing  by 
him,  preparing  his  mind,1  and  animating  and 
exciting  him.  Hence  it  is  that  Paul  elsewhere 
says,  "  Ye  have  done  well  that  ye  did  communi- 
cate with  my  affliction.  For  even  in  Thessalo- 
nica  ye  sent  once  and  again  unto  my  necessity." 
(Phil.  iv.  14,  16.)  And  how  could  they  that 
were  far  off  share  in  the  affliction  of  him  that 
was  not  with  them ?  How?  He  says,  "ye  sent 
once  and  again  unto  my  necessities."  Again  he 
says,  speaking  of  Epaphroditus,  "  Because  he  was 
nigh  unto  death,  not  regarding  his  life,  that  he 
might  supply  your  lack  of  service  toward  me." 
(Phil.  ii.  30.)  For  as  in  the  service  of  kings, 
not  only  those  who  fight  the  battle,  but  those 
who  guard  the  baggage,  share  in  the  honor ;  and 
not  merely  so,  but  frequently  even  have  an  equal 
portion  of  the  spoils,  though  they  have  not 
imbrued  their  hands  in  blood,  nor  stood  in  array, 
nor  even  seen  the  ranks  of  the  enemy ;  so  it  is 
in  these  conflicts.  For  he  who  relieves  the 
combatant,  when  wasted  with  hunger,  who 
stands  by  him,  encouraging  him  by  words,  and 
rendering  him  every  service,  he  is  not  inferior  to 
the  combatant. 

For  do  not  suppose  Paul  the  combatant,  that 
irresistible  and  invincible  one,  but  some  one  of 
the  many,  who,  if  he  had  not  received  much 
consolation  and  encouragement,  would  not  per- 
haps have  stood,  would  not  have  contended. 
So  those  who  are  out  of  the  contest  may  per- 
chance be  the  cause  of  victory  to  him,  who  is 
engaged  in  it,  and  may  be  partakers  of  the 
crowns  reserved  for  the  victor.  And  what  won- 
der, if  he  who  communicates  to  the  living  is 
thought  worthy  of  the  same  rewards  with  those 
who  contend,  since  it  is  possible  to  communi- 
cate after  death  even  with  the  departed,  with 
those  who  are  asleep,  who  are  already  crowned, 
who  want  for  nothing.  For  hear  Paul  saying, 
"  Partaking  in  the  memories  of  the  Saints." 2 
And  how  may  this  be  done?  When  thou  ad- 
mirest  a  man,3  when  thou  doest  any  of  those 
acts  for  which  he  was  crowned,  thou  art  evi- 
dently a  sharer  in  his  labors,  and  in  his  crowns. 

"  The  Lord  grant  unto  him  that  he  may  find 
mercy  of  the  Lord  in  that  day."  He  had  com- 
passion on  me,  he  says,  he  shall  therefore  have 
the  like  return  in  that  terrible  Day,  when  we 
shall  have  need  of  much  mercy.  "The  Lord 
grant  him  to  find  mercy  from  the  Lord."  Are 
there  two  Lords  then  ?  By  no  means.  But  "  to 
us  there  is  one  Lord  Christ  Jesus,  and  one  God." 
(1  Cor.  viii.  6.)  Here  those  who  are  infected 
with  the  heresy  of  Marcion  assail  this  expres- 

*  Rom.  xii.  13,  where  some  read  nvtiai?.  On  the  passage,  how- 
ever, he  reads  xp«""*,  "  necessities,"  as  E.  V.;  see  on  Rom.  Horn. 
zxi. 

*  B.  adds,  "  when  thou  buildest  his  monument." 


sion;  but  let  them  learn  that  this  mode  of 
speech  is  not  uncommon  in  Scripture ;  as  when 
it  is  said,  "  The  Lord  said  unto  my  Lord "  (Ps. 
ex.  1 )  ;  and  again,  "  I  said  unto  the  Lord, 
Thou  art  my  Lord"  (Ps.  xvi.  2)  ;  and,  "The 
Lord  rained  fire  from  the  Ix>rd."  (Gen.  xix. 
24.)  This  indicates  that  the  Persons  are  of  the 
same  substance,  not  that  there  is  a  distinction 
of  nature.  For  we  are  not  to  understand  that 
there  are  two  substances  differing  from  each 
other,  but  two  Persons,  each  being  of  the  same 
substance. 

Observe  too,  that  he  says,  "  The  Lord  grant 
him  mercy."  For  as  he  himself  had  obtained 
mercy  from  Onesiphorus,  so  he  wished  him  to 
obtain  the  same  from  God.  Moral.  And  if 
Onesiphorus,  who  exposed  himself  to  danger,  is 
saved  by  mercy,  much  more  are  we  also  saved 
by  the  same.  For  terrible  indeed,  terrible  is 
that  account,  and  such  as  needs  great  love  for 
mankind,  that  we  may  not  hear  that  awful  sen- 
tence, "  Depart  from  me  ...  I  never  knew  you, 
ye  that  work  iniquity  "  (Matt.  vii.  23)  ;  or  that 
fearful  word,  "  Depart,  ye  cursed,  into  everlast- 
ing fire,  prepared  for  the  devil  and  his  angels  " 
(Matt.  xxv.  40)  :  that  we  may  not  hear,  "  Be- 
tween us  and  you  there  is  a  great  gulf  fixed  " 
(Luke  xvi.  16)  :  that  we  may  not  hear  that  voice 
full  of  horror,  "Take  him  away,  and  cast  him 
into  outer  darkness "  :  that  we  may  not  hear 
those  words  full  of  terror,  "  Thou  wicked  and 
slothful  servant."  (Matt.  xxij.  13,  and  xxv.  26.) 
For  awful  truly  and  terrible  is  that  tribunal. 
And  yet  God  is  gracious  and  merciful.  He  is 
called  a  God  "  of  mercies  and  a  God  of  com- 
fort" (2  Cor.  i.  3)  ;  good  as  none  else  is  good, 
and  kind,  and  gentle,  and  ftill  of  pity,  Who 
"  willeth  not  the  death  of  a  sinner,  but  that  he 
should  be  converted  and  live."  (Ez.  xviii.  24 ; 
xxxiii.  11.)  Whence  then,  wherice  is  that  Day 
so  full  of  agony  and  anguish  ?  A  stream  of  fire 
is  rolling  before  His  face.  The  books  of  our 
deeds  are  opened.  The  day  itself  is  burning  as 
an  oven,  the  angels  are  flying  around,  and  many 
furnaces  are  prepared.  How  then  is  He  good 
and  merciful,  and  full  of  lovingkindness  to  man  ? 
Even  herein  is  He  merciful,  and  He  shows  in 
these  things  the  greatness  of  His  lovingkindness. 
For  He  holds  forth  to  us  these  terrors,  that 
being  constrained  by  them,  we  may  be  awakened 
to  the  desire  of  the  kingdom. 

And  observe  how,  besides  commending  One- 
siphorus, he  specifies  his  kindness,  "  he  oft  re- 
freshed me  "  ;  like  a  wearied  wrestler  overcome 
by  heat,  he  refreshed  and  strengthened  him  in 
his  tribulations.  And  in  how  many  things  he 
ministered  to  me  at  Ephesus,  thou  knowest  very 
well.  Not  only  at  Ephesus,  but  here  also  he 
refreshed  me.  For  such  ought  to  be  the  con- 
duct of  one  on  the  watch  and  awakened  to  good 


486 


WORKS   OF   ST.   CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  III. 


actions,  not  to  work  once,  or  twice,  or  thrice, 
but  through  the  whole  of  life.  For  as  our  body 
is  not  fed  once  for  all,  and  so  provided  with  sus- 
tenance for  a  whole  life,  but  needs  also  daily  food, 
so  in  this  too,  godliness  requires  to  be  supported 
every  day  by  good  works.  For  we  ourselves  have 
need  of  great  mercy.  It  is  on  account  of  our 
sins  that  God,  the  Friend  of  man,  does  all  these 
things,  not  that  He  needs  them  Himself,  but  He 
does  all  for  us.  For  therefore  it  is  that  He  has 
revealed  them  all,  and  made  them  known  to  us, 
and  not  merely  told  us  of  them,  but  given  us 
assurance  of  them  by  what  He  has  done.  Though 
He  was  worthy  of  credit  upon  His  word  only, 
that  no  one  may  think  it  is  said  hyperbolically, 
or  in  the  way  of  threatening  merely,  we  have 
further  assurance  by  His  works.  How?  By 
the  punishments  which  He  has  inflicted  both 
publicly  and  privately.  And  that  thou  may  est 
learn  by  the  very  examples,  at  one  time  he  pun- 
ished Pharaoh,  at  another  time  He  brought  a 
flood  of  water  upon  the  earth,  and  that  utter 
destruction,  and  again  at  another  time  a  flood 
of  fire  :  and  even  now  we  see  in  many  instances 
the  wicked  suffering  vengeance,  and  punish- 
ments, which  things  are  figures  of  Hell. 

For  lest  we  should  slumber  and  be  slothful, 
and  forget  His  word,  He  awakens  our  minds  by 
deeds  ;  showing  us,  even  here,  courts  of  justice, 
judgment  seats,  and  trials.  Is  there  then  among 
men  so  great  a  regard  for  justice,  and  doth 
God,  whose  ordinance  even  these  things  are, 
make  no  account  of  it?  Is  this  credible?  In 
a  house,  in  a  market-place,  there  is  a  court  of 
justice.  The  master  daily  sits  in  judgment  upon 
his  slaves,  calls  them  to  account  for  their  of- 
fenses, punishes  some  and  pardons  others.  In 
the  country,  the  husbandman  and  his  wife  are 
daily  at  law.  In  a  ship,  the  master  is  judge, 
and  in  a  camp  the  general  over  his  soldiers,  and 
everywhere  one  may  see  judicial  proceedings. 
In  trades,  the  master  judges  the  learner.  In 
short  all,  publicly  and  privately,  are  judges  to 
one  another.  In  nothing  is  the  consideration 
of  justice  overlooked,  and  all  in  every  place  give 
account  of  their  actions.  And  is  the  inquisi- 
tion for  justice  here  thus  spread  through  cities, 
through  houses,  and  among  individuals ;  and  is 
there  no  regard  for  what  is  justice  there,  where 
*'  the  right  hand  of  God  is  full  of  righteousness  " 
(Ps.  xlviii.  10),  and  "His  righteousness  is  as 
the  mountains  of  God  "?     (Ps.  xxxvi.  6.) 

How  is  it  then  that  God,  "  the  righteous  Judge, 
strong  and  patient"  (Ps.  vii.  n,  Sept.),  bears 
thus  with  men,  and  does  not  exact  punishment  ? 
Here  thou  hast  the  cause,  He  is  longsuffering, 
and  thereby  would  lead  thee  to  repentance. 
But  if  thou  continuest  in  sin,  thou  "  after  thy 
hardness  and  impenitent  heart  treasurest  up 
unto  thyself  wrath."     (Rom.  ii.  5.)     If  then  He 


is  just,  He  repays  according  to  desert,  and  does 
not  overlook  those  who  suffer  wrongfully,  but 
avenges  them.  For  this  is  the  part  of  one  who 
is  just.  If  He  is  powerful,  He  requites  after 
death,  and  at  the  Resurrection  :  for  this  belongs 
to  him  who  is  powerful.  And  if  because  He  is 
longsuffering  He  bears  with  men,  let  us  not  be 
disturbed,  nor  ask,  why  He  does  not  prosecute 
vengeance  here?  For  if  this  were  done,  the 
whole  human  race  before  this  would  have  been 
swept  away,  if  every  day  He  should  call  us  to 
account  for  our  transgressions,  since  there  is 
not,  there  is  not  indeed,  a  single  day  pure  from 
sin,  but  in  something  greater  or  less  we-offend  ; 
so  that  we  should  not  one  of  us  have  arrived  at 
our  twentieth  year,  but  for  His  great  long- 
suffering,  and  His  goodness,  that  grants  us  a 
longer  space  for  repentance,  that  we  may  put 
off  our  past  transgressions. 

Let  each  therefore,  with  an  upright  con- 
science, entering  into  a  review  of  what  he  has 
done,  and  bringing  his  whole  life  before  him, 
consider,  whether  he  is  not  deserving  of  chas- 
tisements and  punishments  without  number  ? 
And  when  he  is  indignant  that  some  one,  who 
has  been  guilty  of  many  bad  actions,  escapes 
with  impunity ;  let  him  consider  his  own  faults, 
and  his  indignation  will  cease.  For  those 
crimes  appear  great,  because  they  are  in  great 
and  notorious  matters;  but  if  he  will  enquire 
into  his  own,  he  will  perhaps  find  them  more 
numerous.  For  to  rob  and  to  defraud  is  the 
same  thing,  whether  it  be  done  for  gold  or 
silver ;  since  both  proceed  from  the  same  mind. 
He  that  will  steal  a  little  would  not  refuse  to 
steal  much,  if  it  fell  in  his  way;  and  that  it 
does  not,  is  not  his  own  choice,  but  an  acci- 
dental circumstance.  A  poor  man,  who  robs 
a  poorer,  would  not  hesitate  to  rob  the  rich  if 
he  could.  His  forbearance  arises  from  weak- 
ness, and  not  from  choice.  Such  an  one,  you 
say,  is  a  ruler ;  and  takes  away  the  property  of 
those  who  are  under  his  rule.  And  say,  dost 
not  thou  steal  ?  For  tell  me  not  that  he  steals 
talents,  and  you  as  many1  pence.  In  giving 
alms,  some  cast  in  gold,  while  the  widow 
threw  in  two  mites,  yet  she  contributed  not 
less  than  they.  Wherefore?  Because  the  in- 
tention is  considered,  and  not  the  amount  of 
the  gift.  And  then,  in  the  case  of  alms, 
thou  wilt  have  God  judge  thus,  and  wouldest, 
because  of  thy  poverty,  receive  no  less  a 
reward  for  giving  two  mites  than  he  who  lays 
down  many  talents  of  gold  ?  and  is  not  the  same 
rule  applicable  to  wrongful  dealings?  How  is 
this  consistent?  As  she  who  contributed  two 
mites  was  considered  equal  to  the  greatest  giv- 
ers, because  of  her  good  intention,  so  thou,  who 

1  iexa. 


Homily  IV.] 


HOMILIES   ON   TIMOTHY. 


487 


stealest  two  mites,  art  as  culpable  as  those 
mightier  robbers.  Nay,  if  I  may  give  utterance 
to  something  strange,  thou  art  a  worse  robber 
than  they.  For  a  man  would  be  equally  an 
adulterer,  whether  he  committed  the  sin  with 
the  wife  of  a  king,  or  of  a  poor  man,  or  of  a 
slave :  since  the  offense  is  not  judged  by  the 
quality  of  the  persons,  but  by  the  wickedness  of 
his  will  who  commits  it ;  so  is  it  likewise  in  this 
case.  Nay,  I  should  call  him  who  committed 
the  sin  with  an  inferior  perhaps  more  guilty, 
than  him  who  intrigued  with  the  queen  herself. 
For  in  this  case,  wealth,  and  beauty,  and  other 
attractions  might  be  pleaded,  none  of  which  ex- 
ist in  the  other.  Therefore  the  other  is  the 
worse  adulterer.  Again,  he  seems  to  me  a  more 
determined  drunkard,  who  commits  that  excess 
with  bad  wine  ;  so  he  is  a  worse  defrauder,  who 
does  not  despise  small  thefts ;  for  he  who  com- 
mits great  robberies,  would  perhaps  not  stoop  to 
petty  thefts,  whereas  he  who  steals  little  things 
would  never  forbear  greater,  therefore  he  is  the 
greater  thief  of  the  two.  For  how  should  he 
despise  gold,  who  does  not  despise  silver?     So 


that  when  we  accuse  our  rulers,  let  us  recount 
our  own  faults,  and  we  shall  find  ourselves  more 
given  to  wrong  and  robbery  than  they ;  unless  we 
judge  of  right  and  wrong  rather  by  the  act,  than 
by  the  intention  of  the  mind,  as  we  ought  to 
judge.  If  one  should  be  convicted  of  having 
stolen  the  goods  of  a  poor  man,  another  those  of 
a  rich  man,  will  they  not  both  be  punished  alike? 
Is  not  a  man  equally  a  murderer,  whether  he 
murder  a  poor  and  deformed,  or  a  rich  and 
handsome,  man  ?  When  therefore  we  say  that 
such  an  one  has  seized  upon  another  person's 
land,  let  us  reflect  upon  our  own  faults,  and  then 
we  shall  not  condemn  other  men,  but  we  shall 
admire  the  longsuffering  of  God.  We  shall  not 
be  indignant  that  judgment  does  not  fall  upon 
them,  but  we  shall  be  more  slow  to  commit 
wickedness  ourselves.  For  when  we  perceive 
ourselves  liable  to  the  same  punishment,  we 
shall  no  longer  feel  such  discontent,  and  shall 
desist  from  offenses,  and  shall  obtain  the  good 
things  to  come,  through  the  grace  and  loving- 
kindness  of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  to  whom 
with  the  Father,  &c. 


HOMILY    IV. 

2  Timothy  ii.  1-7. 


"  Thou  therefore,  my  son,  be  strong  in  the  grace  that  is 
in  Christ  Jesus.  And  the  things  that  thou  hast 
heard  of  me  among  many  witnesses,  the  same  com- 
mit thou  to  faithful  men,  who  shall  be  able  to  teach 
others  also.  Thou  therefore  endure  hardness,  as  a 
good  soldier  of  Jesus  Christ.  No  man  that  warreth 
entangleth  himself  with  the  affairs  of  this  life;  that 
he  may  please  him  who  hath  chosen  him  to  be  a 
soldier.  And  if  a  man  also  strive  for  masteries,  yet 
is  he  not  crowned,  except  he  strive  lawfully.  The 
husbandman  that  laboreth  must  be  first  partaker  of 
the  fruits.  Consider  what  I  say;  and  the  Lord  give 
thee  understanding  in  all  things." 


The  young  sailor  at  sea  is  inspired  with  great 
confidence,  if  the  Master  of  the  ship  has  been 
preserved  in  a  shipwreck.  For  he  will  not  con- 
sider that  it  is  from  his  inexperience  that  he  is 
exposed  to  the  storm,  but  from  the  nature  of 
things;  and  this  has  no  little  effect  upon  his 
mind.  In  war  also  the  Captain,  who  sees  his 
General  wounded  and  recovered  again,  is  much 
encouraged.  And  thus  it  produces  some  con- 
solation to  the  faithful,  that  the  Apostle  should 
have  been  exposed  to  great  sufferings,  and  not 
rendered  weak  by  the  utmost  of  them.  And 
had  it  not  been  so,  he  would  not  have  related 
his  sufferings.     For  when  Timothy  heard,  that 


he  who  possessed  so  great  powers,  who  had 
conquered  the  whole  world,  is  a  prisoner,  and 
afflicted,  yet  is  not  impatient,  nor  discontented 
upon  the  desertion  of  his  friends;  he,  if  ever 
exposed  to  the  same  sufferings  himself,  would 
not  consider  that  it  proceeded  from  human 
weakness,  nor  from  the  circumstance,  of  his 
being  a  disciple,  and  inferior  to  Paul,  since  his 
teacher  too  suffered  the  like,  but  that  all  this 
happened  from  the  natural  course  of  things. 
For  Paul  himself  did  this,1  and  related  what  had 
befallen  him,  that  he  might  strengthen  Timothy, 
and  renew  nis  courage.  And  he  shows  that  it 
was  for  this  reason  he  mentioned  his  trials  and 
afflictions,  in  that  he  has  added,  "  Thou,  there- 
fore, my  son,  be  strong  in  the  grace  that  is  in 
Christ  Jesus."  What  sayest  thou?  Thou  hast 
shaken  us  with  terrors,  thou  hast  told  us  that 
thou  art  in  chains,  in  afflictions,  that  all  have 
forsaken  thee,  and,  as  if  thou  hadst  said  thou 
hadst  not  suffered  anything,  nor  been  abandoned 
by  any,  thou  addest,  "  Thou  therefore,  my  son, 
be  strong"?  —  And  justly  too.    For  these  things 


1  So  B.  Sav.  "  these  things,"  but  with  a  mark  of  authority  for 
omitting  "  did  these  things,  and." 


488 


WORKS   OF   ST.    CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  IV 


were  to  thy  strengthening  more  than  to  his.1  For 
if  I,  Paul,  endure  these  things,  much  more 
oughtest  thou  to  bear  them.  If  the  master, 
much  more  the  disciple.  And  this  exhortation 
he  introduces  with  much  affection,  calling  him 
"  son,"  and  not  only  so,  but  "  my  son."  If  thou 
art  a  son,  he  means,  imitate  thy  father.  If  thou 
art  a  son,  be  strong  in  consideration  of  the 
things  which  I  have  said,  or  rather  be  strong, 
not  merely  from  what  I  have  told  you,  but  "  of 
God."  "  Be  strong,"  he  says,  "  in  the  grace  that 
is  in  Christ  Jesus  "  ;  that  is,  "  through  the  grace 
of 'Christ."  That  is,  stand  firmly.  Thou  knowest 
the  battle.  For  elsewhere  he  says, "  We  wrestle 
not  against  flesh  and  blood."  (Eph.  vi.  12.) 
And  this  he  says  not  to  depress  but  to  excite 
them.  Be  sober  therefore,  he  means,  and  watch, 
have  the  grace  of  the  Lord  cooperating  with 
thee,  and  aiding  thee  in  thy  contest,  contribute 
thy  own  part  with  much  alacrity  and  resolution. 
"And  the  things  that  thou  hast  heard  of  me 
among  many  witnesses,  the  same  commit  thou  to 
faithful  men  "  ;  to  "  faithful "  men,  not  to  ques- 
tioners nor  to  reasoners,  to  "  faithful."  How  faith- 
ful ?  Such  as  betray  not  the  Gospel  they  should 
preach.  "  The  things  which  thou  hast  heard," 
not  which  thou  hast  searched  out.  For  "  faith 
cometh  by  hearing,  and  hearing  by  the  word  of 
God."  (Rom.  x.  1 7.)  But  wherefore,  "  among 
many  witnesses "  ?  As  if  he  had  said  :  Thou 
hast  not  heard  in  secret,  nor  apart,  but  in  the 
presence  of  many,  with  all  openness  of  speech. 
Ndr  does  he  say,  Tell,  but  "  commit,"  as  a  treas- 
ure committed  is  deposited  in  safety.  Again 
he  alarms  his  disciple,  both  from  things  above 
and  things  below.  But  he  says  not  only  "  com- 
mit to  faithful  men  "  ;  for  of  what  advantage  is 
it  that  one  is  faithful,  if  he  is  not  able  to  convey 
his  doctrine  to  others  ?  when  he  does  not  indeed 
betray  the  faith ;  but  does  not  render  others 
faithful  ?  The  teacher  therefore  ought  to  have 
two  qualities,  to  be  both  faithful,  and  apt  to 
teach ;  wherefore  he  says,  "  who  shall  be  able 
to  teach  others  also." 

"Thou  therefore  endure  hardness  as  a  good 
soldier  of  Jesus  Christ."  Oh,  how  great  a  dignity 
is  this,  to  be  a  soldier  of  Jesus  Christ !  Observe 
the  kings  on  earth,  how  great  an  honor  it  is 
esteemed  to  serve  under  them.  If  therefore 
the  soldier  of  the  king  ought  to  endure  hard- 
ness, not  to  endure  hardness  is  not  the  part  of 
any  soldier.  So  that  it  behooves  thee  not  to 
complain,  if  thou  endurest  hardness,  for  that  is 
the  part  of  a  soldier ;  but  to  complain,  if  thou 
dost  not  endure  hardness. 

"  No  man  that  warreth  entangleth  himself 
with  the  affairs  of  this  life,  that  he  may  please 
him  who  hath  chosen  him  to  be  a  soldier.     And 


1  So  Fxld.,  but  B.  has  ««cii'a  for  italvov,  "  more  than  the  other," 
and  Old  Lat.  paraphrases  it,  "  more  than  if  I  had  suffered  nothing*" 


if  a  man  also  strive  for  masteries,  yet.  is  he  not 
crowned  except  he  strive  lawfully." 

These  things  are  said  indeed  to  Timothy,  but 
through  him  they  are  addressed  to  every  teacher 
and  disciple.  Let  no  one  therefore  of  those 
who  hold  the  office  of  a  Bishop  disdain  to  hear 
these  things,  but  let  him  be  ashamed  not  to  do 
them.  "  If  any  one  strive  for  masteries,"  he 
says,  "  he  is  not  crowned,  except  he  strive  law- 
fully." What  is  meant  by  "lawfully"?  It  is 
not  enough  that  he  enters  into  the  lists,  that  he 
is  anointed,  and  even  engages,  unless  he  comply 
with  all  the  laws  of  the  exercise,  with  respect 
to  diet,  to  temperance  and  sobriety,  and  all  the 
rules  of  the  wrestling  school,  unless,  in  short,  he 
go  through  all  that  is  befitting  for  a  wrestler,2 
he  is  not  crowned.  And  observe  the  wisdom 
of  Paul.  He  mentions  wrestlers  and  soldiers, 
the  one  to  prepare  him  for  slaughter  and  blood, 
the  other  with  reference  to  endurance,  that  he 
might  bear  everything  with  fortitude,  and  be 
ever  in  exercise. 

"  The  husbandman  that  laboreth  must  be  first 
partaker  of  the  fruits." 

He  had  first  spoken  from  his  own  example  as 
a  teacher.  He  now  speaks  from  those  that  are 
more  common,  as  wresders  and  soldiers,  and  in 
their  case  he  sets  before  him  the  rewards.  First, 
that  he  may  please  him  who  hath  chosen  him  to 
be  a  soldier ;  secondly,  that  he  may  be  crowned  ; 
now  he  proposes  a  third  example  that  more 
particularly  suits  himself.  For  the  instance  of 
the  soldier  and  the  wrestler  corresponds  to  those 
who  are  under  rule,  but  that  of  the  husbandman 
to  the  Teacher.  (Strive)  not  as  a  soldier  or  a 
wrestier  only,  but  as  a  husbandman  too.  The 
husbandman  takes  care  not  of  himself  alone, 
but  of  the  fruits  of  the  earth.  That  is,  no  little 
reward  of  his  labors  is  enjoyed  by  the  husband- 
man. 

Here  he  both  shows,  that  to  God  nothing  is 
wanting,  and  that  there  is  a  reward  for  Teach- 
ing, which  he  shows  by  a  common  instance. 
As  the  husbandman,  he  says,  does  not  labor 
without  profit,  but  enjoys  before  others  the 
fruits  of  his  own  toils,  so  is  it  fit  that  the  teacher 
should  do  :  either  he  means  this,  or  he  is  speak- 
ing of  the  honor  to  be  paid  to  teachers,  but 
this  is  less  consistent.  For  why  does  he  not 
say  the  husbandman  simply,  but  him  "  that 
laboreth"?  not  only  that  worketh,  but  that  is 
worn  with  toil?  And  here  with  reference  to 
the  delay  of  reward,  that  no  one  may  be  impa- 
tient, he  says,  thou  reapest  the  fruit  already,  or 
there  is  a  reward  in  the  labor  itself.  When 
therefore  he  has  set  before  him  the  examples 
of  soldiers,  of  wrestlers,  and  husbandmen,  and 
all  figuratively,  "  No  one,"  he  says,  "  is  crowned 

*  See  Horn.  iii.  on  Stat. 


Homily  IV.] 


HOMILIES  ON  TIMOTHY. 


489 


except  he  strive  lawfully."  And  having  observed 
that  "  the  husbandman  who  laboreth  must  first 
be  partaker  of  the  fruits,"  he  adds, 

"  Consider  what  I  say,  and  the  Lord  give  thee 
understanding  in  all  things." 

It  is  on  this  account  that  he  has  spoken  these 
things  in  proverb  and  parable.  Then  again  to 
show  his  affectionate  disposition,  he  ceases  not 
to  pray  for  him,  as  fearing  for  his  own  son,  and 
he  says, 

Ver.  8,  9.  "  Remember  that  Jesus  Christ,  of 
the  seed  of  David,  was  raised  from  the  dead, 
according  to  my  Gospel.  Wherein  I  suffer 
trouble  as  an  evil-doer,  even  unto  bonds.' ' 

On  what  account  is  this  mentioned  ?  It  is  di- 
rected chiefly  against  the  heretics,  at  the  same 
time  to  encourage  Timothy,  by  showing  the  ad- 
vantage of  sufferings,  since  Christ,  our  Master, 
Himself  overcame  death  by  suffering.  Remem- 
ber this,  he  says,  and  thou  wilt  have  sufficient 
comfort.  "  Remember  that  Jesus  Christ,  of  the 
seed  of  David,  was  raised  from  the  dead."  For 
upon  that  point  many  had  already  begun  to  sub- 
vert the  dispensation,  being  ashamed  at  the  im- 
mensity of  God's  love  tb  mankind.  For  of  such 
a  nature  are  the  benefits  which  God  has  conferred 
upon  us,  that  men  were  ashamed  to  ascribe  them 
to  God,  and  could  not  believe  He  had  so  far 
condescended.  "According  to  my  Gospel." 
Thus  he  everywhere  speaks  in  his  Epistles,  say- 
ing "  according  to  my  Gospel,"  *  either  because 
they  were  bound  to  believe  him,  or  because  there 
were  some  who  preached  "  another  Gospel." 
(Gal.  i.  6.) 

"  Wherein  I  suffer  trouble,"  he  says,  "  as  an 
evil-doer,  even  unto  bonds."  Again  he  intro- 
duces consolation  and  encouragement  from  him- 
self, and  he  prepares2  his  hearer's  mind  with 
these  two  things ;  first,  that  he  should  know  him 
to  endure  hardness ;  and,  secondly,  that  he  did 
not  so  but  for  a  useful  purpose,  for  in  this  case 
he  will  gain,  in  the  other  will  even  suffer  harm. 
For  what  advantage  is  it,  that  you  can  show  that 
a  Teacher  has  exposed  himself  to  hardship,  but 
not  for  any  useful  purpose  ?  But  if  it  is  for  any 
benefit,  if  for  the  profit  of  those  who  are  taught, 
then  it  is  worthy  of  admiration.3 

"  But  the  word  of  God  is  not  bound."  That 
is,  if  we  were  soldiers  of  this  world,  and  waged 
an  earthly  warfare,  the  chains  that  confine  our 
hands  would  avail.  But  now  God  has  made  us 
such  that  nothing  can  subdue  us.  For  our  hands 
are  bound,  but  not  our  tongue,  since  nothing  can 
bind  the  tongue  but  cowardice  and  unbelief 
alone  ;  and  where  these  are  not,  though  you  fas- 


1  As  Rum.  ii.  16;  xvi.  25.  Other  phrases  to  the  same  purpose 
occur,  1  Cor.  xv.  1 ;  1  Tim.  i.  11,  &c. 

»  Lit.  "  oils." 

5  B.  and  Sav.  mar.  read  this  passage  differently,  and  Old  Lat. 
differently  from  them;  no  one  of  the  readings  seems  right,  unless 
perhaps  this. 


ten  chains  upon  us,  the  preaching  of  the  Gospel 
is  not  bound.  If  indeed  you  bind  a  husband- 
man, you  prevent  his  sowing,  for  he  sows  with 
his  hand  :  but  if  you  bind  a  Teacher,  you  hinder 
not  the  word,  for  it  is  sown  with  his  tongue,  not 
with  his  hand.  Our  word  therefore  is  not  sub- 
jected to  bonds.  For  though  we  are  bound,  that 
is  free,  and  runs  its  course.  How?  Because 
though  bound,  behold,  we  preach.  This  is  for 
the  encouragement  of  those  that  are  free.  For 
if  we  that  are  bound  preach,  much  more  does  it 
behoove  you  that  are  loose  to  do  so.  You  have 
heard  that  I  suffer  these  things,  as  an  evil-doer. 
Be  not  dejected.  For  it  is  a  great  wonder,  that 
being  bound  I  do  the  work  of  those  that  are 
free,  that  being  bound  I  overcome  all,  that  being 
bound  I  prevail  over  those  that  bound  me.  For 
it  is  the  word  of  God,  not  ours.  Human  chains 
cannot  bind  the  word  of  God.  "  These  things 
I  suffer  on  account  of  the  elect." 

Ver.  10.  "Therefore  I  endure  all  things,"  he 
says,  "  for  the  elect's  sake,  that  they  may  also 
obtain  the  salvation  which  is  in  Christ  Jesus  with 
eternal  glory." 

Behold  another  incentive.  I  endure  these 
things,  he  says,  not  for  myself,  but  for  the  sal- 
vation of  others.  It  was  in  my  power  to  have 
lived  free  from  danger;  to  have  suffered  none 
of  these  things,  if  I  had  consulted  my  own  in- 
terest. On  what  account  then  do  I  suffer  these 
things?  For  the  good  of  others,  that  others 
may  obtain  eternal  life.  What  then  dost  thou 
promise  thyself?  He  has  not  said,  simply  on 
account  of  these  particular  persons ;  but  "  for 
the  elect's  sake."  If  God  has  chosen  them,  it 
becomes  us  to  suffer  everything  for  their  sakes. 
"  That  they  also  may  obtain  salvation."  By  say- 
ing, "  they  also,"  he  means,  as  well  as  we.  For 
God  hath  chosen  us  also ;  and  as  God  suffered 
for  our  sakes,  so  should  we  suffer  for  their  sakes. 
Thus  it  is  a  matter  of  retribution,  not  of  favor. 
On  the  part  of  God  it  was  grace,  for  He  having 
received  no  previous  benefit,  hath  done  us  good  : 
but  on  our  parts  it  is  retribution,  we  having  pre- 
viously received  benefits  from  God,  suffer  for 
these,  for  whom  we  suffer,  in  order  "  that  they 
may  obtain  salvation."  What  sayest  thou  ?  What 
salvation  ?  Art  thou  who  wast  not  the  author  of 
salvation  to  thyself,  but  wast  destroying  thyself, 
art  thou  the  author  of  salvation  to  others  ?  Surely 
not,  and  therefore  he  adds,  "  salvation  that  is  in 
Christ  Jesus  "  ;  that  which  is  truly  salvation,  "  with 
eternal  glory."  Present  things  are  afflictive,  but 
they  are  but  on  earth.  Present  things  are  ig- 
nominious, but  they  are  temporary.  They  are 
full  of  bitterness  and  pain ;  but  they  last  only 
to-day  and  to-morrow. 

Such  is  not  the  nature  of  the  good  things, 
they  are  eternal,  they  are  in  heaven.  That  is 
true  glory,  this  is  dishonor. 


490 


WORKS   OF    ST.    CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  IV. 


Moral.  For  observe,  I  pray,  beloved,  that  is 
not  glory  which  is  on  earth,  the  true  glory  is 
in  heaven.  But  if  any  one  would  be  glorified, 
let  him  be  dishonored.  If  he  would  obtain 
rest,  let  him  suffer  affliction.  If  any  one  would 
be  forever  illustrious,  would  enjoy  pleasure,  let 
him  despise  temporal  things.  And  that  dishonor 
is  glory,  and  glory  dishonor,  let  us  now  set  be- 
fore us  to  the  best  of  our  power,  that  we  may 
see  what  is  real  glory.  It  is  not  possible  to  be 
glorified  upon  earth ;  if  thou  wouldest  be  glori- 
fied, it  must  be  through  dishonor.  And  let  us 
prove  this  in  the  examples  of  two  persons, 
Nero  and  Paul.  The  one  had  the  glory  of  this 
world,  the  other  the  dishonor.  How?  The 
first  was  a  tyrant,  had  obtained  great  success, 
had  raised  many  trophies,  had  wealth  ever  flow- 
ing in,  numerous  armies  everywhere ;  he  had 
the  greater  part  of  the  world  and  the  imperial 
city  subject  to  his  sway,  the  whole  senate  crouch- 
ing to  him,  and  his  palace  too *  was  advancing 
with  splendid  show.  When  he  must  be  armed, 
he  went  forth  arrayed  in  gold  and  precious 
stones.  When  he  was  to  sit  still  in  peace,  he  sat 
clothed  in  robes  of  purple.  He  was  surrounded 
by  numerous  guards  and  attendants.  He  was 
called  Lord  of  land  and  sea,  Emperor,2  Augus- 
tus, Caesar,  King,  and  other  such  high-sounding 
names  as  implied8 flattery  and  courtship;  and 
nothing  was  wanting  that  might  tend  to  glory. 
Even  wise  men  and  potentates  and  sovereigns 
trembled  at  him.  For  beside  all  this,  he  was 
said  to  be  a  cruel  and  violent  man.  He  even 
wished  to  be  thought  a  god,  and  he  despised 
both  all  the  idols,  and  the  very  God  WTho  is 
over  all.  He  was  worshiped  as  a  god.  What 
greater  glory  than  this  ?  Or  rather  what  greater 
dishonor?  For — I  know  not  how  —  my  tongue 
is  carried  away  by  the  force  of  truth,  and  passes 
sentence  before  judgment.  Meanwhile  let  us 
examine  the  matter  according  to  the  opinion  of 
the  multitude,  and  of  unbelievers,  and  the  esti- 
mation of  flatterv. 

What  is  greater  in  the  common  estimation  of 
glory  than  to  be  reputed  a  god  ?  It  is  indeed  a 
great  disgrace  that  any  human  being  should  be 
so  mad,  but  for  the  present  let  us  consider  the 
matter  according  to  the  opinion  of  the  multi- 
tude. Nothing  then  was  wanting  to  him,  that 
contributes  to  human  glory,  but  he  was  wor- 
shiped by  all  as  a  god.  Now  in  opposition  to 
him,  let  us  consider  Paul.  He  was  a  Cilician, 
and  the  difference  between  Rome  and  Cilicia, 
all  know.  He  was  a  tent-maker,  a  poor  man, 
unskilled  in  the  wisdom  of  those  without,  know- 
ing  only  the  Hebrew  tongue,  a  language  de- 


1  <  >ne  suspects  the  stops.  Read*  "  and  the  palace  itself,  He 
walked  in  splendid  attire." 

*    XvroKpaTotp. 

8  Or.  "devised,"  whence  it  seems  that  "  flattery,"  &c.  should  be 
in  the  nominative. 


spised  by  all,  especially  by  the  Italians.  For 
they  do  not  so  much  despise  the  barbarian,  the 
Greek,  or  any  other  tongue  as  the  Syriac,  and 
this  has  affinity  with  the  Hebrew.  Nor  wonder 
at  this,  for  if  they  despised  the  Greek,  which  is 
so  admirable  and  beautiful,  much  more  the 
Hebrew.  He  was  a  man  that  often  lived  in 
hunger,  often  went  to  bed  without  food,  a  man 
that  was  naked,  and  had  not  clothes  to  put  on  ; 
"  in  cold,  and  nakedness,"  as  he  says  of  himself, 
(i  Cor.  xi.  27.)  Nor  was  this  all ;  but  he  was 
cast  into  prison  at  the  command  of  Nero  him- 
self, and  confined  with  robbers,  with  impostors, 
with  grave-breakers,  with  murderers,  and  he 
was,  as  he  himself  says,  scourged  as  a  malefactor. 
Who  then  is  the  more  illustrious  ?  The  name  of 
the  one  the  greater  part  have  never  heard  of. 
The  other  is  daily  celebrated  by  Greeks,  and 
Barbarians,  and  Scythians,  and  those  who  in- 
habit the  extremities  of  the  earth. 

But  let  us  not  yet  consider  what  is  the  case 
now,  but  even  at  that  time  who  was  the  more 
illustrious,  who  the  more  glorious,  he  that  was 
in  chains,  and  dragged  bound  from  prison,  or 
he  that  was  clothed  in  a  purple  robe,  and  walked 
forth  from  a  palace?  The  prisoner  certainly. 
For  the  other,  who  had  armies  at  his  command, 
and  sat  arrayed  in  purple,  was  not  able  to  do 
what  he  would.  But  the  prisoner,  that  was  like 
a  malefactor,  and  in  mean  attire,  could  do  every- 
thing with  more  authority.  How?  The  one 
said,  "  Do  not  disseminate  the  word  of  God." 
The  other  said,  "  I  cannot  forbear ;  '  the  word  of 
God  is  not  bound.'  "  Thus  the  Cilician,  the  pris- 
oner, the  poor  tent-maker,  who  lived  in  hunger, 
despised  the  Roman,  rich  as  he  was,  and  em- 
peror, and  ruling  over  all,  who  enriched  so  many 
thousands ;  and  with  all  his  armies  he  availed 
nothing.  Who  then  was  illustrious?  who  ven- 
erable ?  He  that  in  chains  was  a  conqueror,  or 
he  that  in  a  purple  robe  was  conquered?  He 
that  standing  below,  smote,  or  he  that  sitting 
above,  was  smitten?  He  that  commanded  and 
was  despised,  or  he  who  was  commanded  and 
made  no  account  of  the  commands  ?  He  who 
being  alone  was  victorious,  or  he  who  with 
numerous  armies  was  defeated?  The  king 
therefore  so  came  off,  that  his  prisoner  tri- 
umphed over  him.  Tell  me  then  on  whose  side 
you  would  be  ?  For  do  not  look  to  what  conies 
afterwards,  but  to  what  was  then  their  state. 
Would  you  be  on  the  side  of  Nero,  or  of  Paul? 
I  speak  not  according  to  the  estimate  of  faith, 
for  that  is  manifest ;  but  according  to  the  esti- 
mate of  glory,  and  reverence,  and  preeminence. 
Any  man  of  right  understanding  would  say.  on 
the  side  of  Paul.  For  if  to  conquer  is  more 
illustrious  than  to  be  conquered,  he  is  more 
glorious.  And  this  is  not  yet  much,  that  he 
conquered,  but  that  being  in  so  mean  a  state  he 


IIciMH.V    IV.] 


HOMILIES   ON    TIMOTHY. 


491 


conquered  one  in  so  exalted  a  condition.  For 
I  say,  and  will  not  cease  to  repeat  it,  though 
bound  with  a  chain,  yet  he  smote  him  that  was 
invested  with  a  diadem. 

Such  is  the  power  of  Christ.  The  chain  sur- 
passed the  kingly  crown,  and  this  apparel  was 
shown  more  brilliant  than  that.  Clothed  in 
filthy  rags,  as  the  inhabitant  of  a  prison,  he 
turned  all  eyes  upon  the  chains  that  hung  on 
him,  rather  than  on  the  purple  robe.  He  stood 
on  earth  bound  down  and  stooping  low,  and  all 
left  the  tyrant  mounted  on  a  golden  chariot  to 
gaze  on  him.  And  well  they  might.  For  it  was 
customary  to  see  a  king  with  white  horses,  but 
it  was  a  strange  and  unwonted  sight  to  behold  a 
prisoner  conversing  with  a  king  with  as  much 
confidence  as  a  king  would  converse  with  a  piti- 
ful and  wretched  slave.  The  surrounding  multi- 
tude were  all  slaves  of  the  king,  yet  they  admired 
not  their  lord,  but  him  who  was  superior  to  their 
lord.  And  he  before  whom  all  feared  and 
trembled,  was  trampled  upon  by  one  solitary 
man.  See  then  how  great  was  the  brightness  of 
these  very  chains  ! 

And  what  need  to  mention  what  followed 
after  these  things?  The  tomb  of  the  one  is  no- 
where to  be  seen ;  but  the  other  lies  in  the  royal 
city  itself,  in  greater  splendor  than  any  king, 
even  there  where  he  conquered,  where  he  raised 
his  trophy.  If  mention  is  made  of  the  one,  it  is 
with  reproach,  even  among  his  kindred,  for  he 
is  said  to  have  been  profligate.  But  the  memory 
of  the  other  is  everywhere  accompanied  with  a 
good  report,  not  among l  us  only,  but  among  his 
enemies.  For  when  truth  shines  forth,  it  puts 
to  shame  even  one's  enemies,  and  if  they  admire 
him  not  for  his  faith,  yet  they  admire  him  for 
his  boldness  and  his  manly  freedom.  The  one 
is  proclaimed  by  all  mouths,  as  one  that  is 
crowned,  the  other  is  loaded  with  reproaches  and 
accusations.     Which  then  is  the  real  splendor? 

And  yet  I  am  but  praising  the  lion  for  his 
talons,  when  I  ought  to  be  speaking  of  his  real 
honors.  And  what  are  these?  Those  in  the 
heavens.  How  will  he  come  in  a  shining  vesture 
with  the  King  of  Heaven !  How  will  Nero 
stand  then,  mournful  and  dejected  !  And  if 
what  I  say  seems  to  thee  incredible  and  ridicu- 
lous, thou  art  ridiculous  for  deriding  that  which 
is  no  subject  for  laughter.  For  if  thou  dis- 
believest  the  future,  be  convinced  from  what  is 
past.  The  season  for  being  crowned  is  not  yet 
come,  and  yet  how  great  honor  has  the  combat- 
ant gained  !  What  honor  then  will  he  not  ob- 
tain, when  the  Distributor  of  the  prizes  shall 
come  !  He  was  among  foreigners,  "  a  stranger 
and  a  sojourner  "  (Heb.  xi.  13),  and  thus  is  he 
admired  :  what  good  will  he  not  enjoy,  when  he 

1  B.  reads  nap'  for  yap.  as  the  sense  requires.     Perhaps  ot*» 
x' rendered  "  kindred"  just  before)  may  mean  '*  fellow-idolaters." 


(Wf 


is  amongst  his  own  ?  Now  "  our  life  is  hid  with 
Christ  in  God  "  (Col.  iii.  3) ;  yet  he  who  is  dead 
worketh  more  and  is  more  honored  than  the 
living.  When  that  our  life  shall  come,  what  will 
he  not  participate  ?    What  will  he  not  attain  ? 

On  this  account  God  made  him  enjoy  these 
honors,  not  because  he  wanted  them.  For  if 
when  in  the  body  he  despised  popular  glory, 
much  more  will  he  despise  it  now  that  he  is 
delivered  from  the  body.  Nor  only  on  this  ac- 
count has  He  caused  him  to  enjoy  honor,  but 
that  those  who  disbelieve  the  future  may  be 
convinced  from  the  present.  I  say  that  when 
the  Resurrection  shall  be,  Paul  will  come  with 
the  King  of  Heaven,  and  will  enjoy  infinite 
blessings.  But  the  unbeliever  will  not  be  con- 
vinced. Let  him  believe  then  from  the  present. 
The  tent- maker  is  more  illustrious,  more  hon- 
ored than  the  king.  No  emperor  of  Rome  ever 
enjoyed  so  great  honor.  The  emperor  is  cast 
out,  and  lies,  no  one  knows  where.  The  tent- 
maker  occupies  the  midst  of  the  city,  as  if  he 
were  a  king,  and  living.  From  these  things 
believe,  even  with  respect  to  the  future.  If  he 
enjoys  so  great  honor  here,  where  he  was  per- 
secuted and  banished,  what  will  he  not  be  when 
he  shall  come  hereafter?  If  when  he  was  a 
tent-maker,  he  was  so  illustrious,  what  will  he 
be  when  he  shall  come  rivaling  the  beams  of 
the  sun  ?  If  in  so  much  meanness  he  overcame 
such  magnificence,  to  whom,  at  his  coming,  will 
he  not  be  superior?  Can  we  avoid  the  conclu- 
sion? Who  is  not  moved  by  the  fact,  that  a 
tent-maker  became  more  honorable  than  the 
most  honored  of  kings?  If  here  things  happen 
so  beyond  the  course  of  nature,  much  more  will 
it  be  so  hereafter.  If  thou  wilt  not  believe  the 
future,  O  man,  believe  the  present.  If  thou  wilt 
not  believe  invisible  things,  believe  things  that 
are  seen :  or  rather  believe  things  which  are 
seen,  for  so  thou  wilt  believe  things  which  are 
invisible.  But  if  thou  wilt  not,  we  may  fitly  say 
with  the  Apostle,  "We  are  pure  from  your 
blood  "  (Acts  xx.  26)  :  for  we  have  testified  to 
you  of  all  things,  and  have  left  out  nothing  that 
we  should  have  said.  Blame  yourselves  there- 
fore, and  to  yourselves 2  will  ye  impute  the  pun- 
ishment of  Hell.  But  let  us,  my  beloved  chil- 
dren, be  imitators  of  Paul,  not  in  his  faith  only, 
but  in  his  life,  that  we  may  attain  to  heavenly 
glory,  and  trample  upon  that  glory  that  is  here. 
Let  not  any  things  present  attract  us.  Let  us 
despise  visible  things,  that  we  may  obtain  heav- 
enly things,  or  rather  may s  through  these  obtain 
the  others,  but  let  it  be  our  aim  preeminently  to 
obtain  those,  of  which  God  grant  that  we  may 
be  all  accounted  worthy,  through  the  grace  and 
lovingkindness,  &c. 

3  Such  must  be  the  meaning,  though  the  construction  seems  to 
require  filling  up.    The  change  of  tense  may  be  rhetorical. 
s  B.  "  rather  we  shall." 


492 


WORKS   OF   ST.   CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  V. 


HOMILY   V. 


2  Timothy  ii.  11-14. 


"  It  is  a  faithful  saying :  for  if  we  be  dead  with  Him,  we 
shall  also  live  with  Him :  if  we  suffer,  we  shall  also 
reign  with  Him:  if  we  deny  Him,  He  also  will  deny 
us :  if  we  believe  not,  yet  He  ahideth  faithful :  He 
cannot  deny  Himself.  Of  these  things  put  them  in 
remembrance,  charging  them  before  the  I^ord,  that 
they  strive  not  about  words  to  no  profit,  but  to  the 
subverting  of  the  hearers." 


Many  of  the  weaker  sort  of  men  give  up  the 
effort  of  faith,  and  do  not  endure  the  deferring 
of  their  hope.  They  seek  things  present,  and 
form  from  these  their  judgment  of  the  future. 
When  therefore  their  lot  here  was  death,  tor- 
ments, and  chains,  and  yet  he  says,  they  shall 
come  to  eternal  life,  they  would  not  have  be- 
lieved, but  would  have  said,  "  What  sayest  thou  ? 
When  I  live,  I  die;  and  when  I  die,  I  live? 
Thou  promisest  nothing  on  earth,  and  dost  thou 
give  it  in  heaven  ?  Little  things  thou  dost  not 
bestow;  and  dost  thou  offer  great  things?" 
That  none  therefore  may  argue  thus,  he  places 
beyond  doubt  the  proof  of  these  things,  laying 
it  down  beforehand  already,  and  giving  certain 
signs.  For,  "  remember,"  he  says,  "  that  Jesus 
Christ  was  raised  from  the  dead  "  ;  that  is,  rose 
again  after  death.  And  now  showing  the  same 
thing  he  says,  "  It  is  a  faithful  saying,"  that  he 
who  has  attained  a  heavenly  life,  will  attain 
eternal  life  .also.  Whence  is  it  "faithful"? 
Because,  he  says,  "  If  we  be  dead  with  Him,  we 
shall  also  live  with  Him."  For  say,  shall  we 
partake  with  Him  in  things  laborious  and  pain- 
ful ;  and  shall  we  not  in  things  beneficial  ?  But 
not  even  a  man  would  act  thus,  nor,  if  one  had 
chosen  to  suffer  affliction  and  death  with  him, 
would  he  refuse  to  him  a  share  in  his  rest,  if  he 
had  attained  it.  But  how  are  we  "  dead  with 
Him  "  ?  This  death  he  means  both  of  that  in 
the  Laver,  and  that  in  sufferings.  For  he  says, 
"  Bearing  about  in  the  body  the  dying  of  the 
Lord  Jesus"  (2  Cor.  iv.  10);  and,  "We  are 
buried  with  Him  by  baptism  into  death  "  (Rom. 
vi.  4)  ;  and,  "  Our  old  man  is  crucified  with 
Him  "  ;  and,  "  We  have  been  planted  together 
in  the  likeness  of  His  death."  (Rom.  vi.  5,  6.) 
But  he  also  speaks  here  of  death  by  trials :  and 
that  more  especially,  for  he  was  also  suffering 
trials  when  he  wrote  it.  And  this  is  what  he 
says,  "If  we  have  suffered  death  on  His  ac- 
count, shall  we  not  live  on  His  account?  This 
is  not  to  be  doubted.  'If  we  suffer,  we  shall 
also  reign  with  Him,'  "  not  absolutely,  we  shall , 
reign,  but  "  if  we  suffer,"  showing  that  it  is  not  j 


enough  to  die  once,  (the  blessed  man  himself 
died  daily,)  but  there  was  need  of  much  patient 
endurance;  and  especially  Timothy  had  need 
of  it.  For  tell  me  not,  he  says,  of  your  first 
sufferings,  but  that  you  continue  to  suffer. 

Then  on  the  other  side  he  exhorts  him,  not 
from  the  good,  but  from  the  evil.  For  if  wicked 
men  were  to  partake  of  the  same  things,  this 
would  be  no  consolation.  And  if  having  en- 
dured they  were  to  reign  with  Him,  but  jiot 
having  endured  were  not  indeed  to  reign  with 
Him,  but  were  to  suffer  no  worse  evil,  though 
this  were  terrible,  yet  it  would  not  be  enough 
to  affect  most  men  with  concern.  Wherefore 
he  speaks  of  something  more  dreadful  still.  If 
we  deny  Him,  He  will  also  deny  us.  So  then 
there  is  a  retribution  not  of  good  things  only,  but 
of  the  contrary.  And  consider  what  it  is  prob- 
able that  he  will  suffer,  who  is  denied  in  that 
kingdom.  "  Whosoever  shall  deny  Me,  him  will 
I  also  deny."  (Matt  x.  33.)  And  the  retribu- 
tion is  not  equal,  though  it  seems  so  expressed. 
For  we  who  deny  Him  are  men,  but  He  who 
denies  us  is  God ;  and  how  great  is  the  distance 
between  God  and  man,  it  is  needless  to  say. 

Besides,  we  injure  ourselves ;  Him  we  cannot 
injure.  And  to  show  this,  he  has  added,  "  If  we 
believe  not,  He  abideth  faithful :  He  cannot 
deny  Himself"  :  that  is,  if  we  believe  not  that  He 
rose  again,  He  is  not  injured  by  it.  He  is  faith- 
ful and  unshaken,  whether  we  say  so  or  not.  If 
then  He  is  not  at  all  injured  by  our  denying 
Him,  it  is  for  nothing  else  than  for  our  benefit 
that  He  desires  our  confession.  For  He  abideth 
the  same,  whether  we  deny  Him  or  not.  He 
cannot  deny  Himself,  that  is,  His  own  Being. 
We  may  say  that  He  is  not ;  though  such  is  not 
the  fact.  It  is  not  in  His  nature,  it  is  not  possi- 
ble for  Him  not  to  be,  that  is,  to  go  into  nonen- 
tity.1 His  subsistence  always  abides,  always  is. 
Let  us  not  therefore  be  so  affected,  as  if  we 
could  gratify  or  could  injure  Him.  But  lest  any 
one  should  think  that  Timothy  needed  this  ad- 
vice, he  has  added, 

"Of  these  things  put  them  in  remembrance, 
charging  them  before  the  Lord,  that  they  strive 

1  MS.  Aug.  has  Vjm<i?  K4V  AcyMficp  or*  owe  itrnv  (ci  «ccu  wpiyiim. 
ovTwf  cvct  ov6i  yap  oi6an*v  ti  ttjk  ovaiav  cortr)  Ofu*f  ovc  «gei 
<j>vo~iv  firf  tlvau '  Tomtom* f  ov  Swarbv  «tf  to  fii)  «Ireu  x*tfnf<rmi, 
which  may  be  thus  rendered  by  reading  rjiv  ovo-tar  t»  for  ri  »V 
ovariav.  "  Though  wc  may  say  that  He  is  not,  if  such  statement 
means  anything,  (for  we  do  not  know  what '  being '  is,)  yet  He  hath 
it  not  in  His  nature  not  to  be,  that  is.  He  cannot  pass  into  nonen- 
tity." Or  reading  only  to  vpayna,  "  if  the  case  is  really  so.  (in  some 
sense,)  in  that  we  do  not  know  what  He  is  in  essence,"  &c  But 
Hales  was  perhaps  right  in  finding  no  meaning  in  the  words. 


Homily  V.] 


HOMILIES   ON   TIMOTHY. 


493 


not  about  words  to  no  profit,  but  to  the  subvert- 
ing of  the  hearers/1  It  is  an  overawing  thing 
to  call  God  to  witness  what  we  say,  for  if  no  one 
would  dare  to  set  at  nought  the  testimony  of 
man  when  appealed  to,  much  less  when  the  ap- 
peal is  to  God.  If  any  one,  for  instance,  enter- 
ing into  a  contract,  or  making  his  will,  chooses 
to  call  witnesses  worthy  of  credit,  would  any 
transfer  the  things  to  those  who  are  not  included  ? 
Surely  not.  And  even  if  he  wishes  it,  yet  fear- 
ing the  credibility  of  the  witnesses,  he  avoids  it. 
What  is  "charging  them  before  the  Lord"?  he 
calls  God  to  witness  both  what  was  said,  and 
what  was  done. 

"That  they  strive  not  about  words  to  no 
profit ; "  and  not  merely  so,  but  "  to  the  sub- 
verting of  the  hearers."  Not  only  is  there  no 
gain  from  it,  but  much  harm.  "Of  these  things 
then  put  them  in  remembrance,"  and  if  they 
despise  thee,  God  will  judge  them.  But  why 
does  he  admonish  them  not  to  strive  about 
words?  He  knows  that  .it  is  a  dainty1  thing, 
and  that  the  human  soul  is  ever  prone  to  con- 
tend and  to  dispute  about  words.  To  guard 
against  this,  he  has  not  only  charged  them  "  not 
to  strive  about  words,"  but  to  render  his  dis- 
course more  alarming,  he  adds,  "  to  the  subvert- 
ing of  the  hearers." 

Ver.  15.  "Study  to  show  thyself  approved 
unto  God,  a  workman  that  needeth  not  to  be 
ashamed,  rightly  dividing  the  word  of  truth." 

Everywhere  this  "not  being  ashamed"  !  And 
why  is  he  ever  so  careful  to  guard  him  against 
shame  ?  Because  it  was  natural  for  many  to  be 
ashamed  both  of  Paul  himself,  as  being  a  tent- 
maker,  and  of  the  preaching,  since  its  teachers 
perished.  For  Christ  had  been  crucified,  him- 
self was  about  to  be  beheaded,  Peter  was  cruci- 
fied with  his  head  downwards,  and  these  things 
they  suffered  from  audacious  and  despicable  men. 
Because  such  men  were  in  power,  he  says,  "  Be 
not  ashamed  "  ;  that  is,  fear  not  to  do  anything 
tending  to  godliness,  though  it  be  necessary  to 
submit  to  slavery  or  any  other  suffering.  For 
how  does  any  one  become  approved  ?  By  being 
"a  workman  that  needeth  not  to  be  ashamed." 
As  the  workman  is  not  ashamed  of  any  work,  so 
neither  should  he  be  ashamed  who  labors  in  the 
Gospel.     He  should  submit  to  anything. 

"  Rightly  dividing  the  word  of  truth." 

This  he  hath  well  said.  For  many  distort  it, 
and  pervert  it  in  every  way,  and  many  additions 
are  made  to  it.  He  has  not  said  directing  it, 
but  "rightly  dividing,"  that  is,  cut  away  what 
is  spurious,  with  much  vehemence  assail  it,  and 
extirpate  it.  With  the  sword  of  the  Spirit  cut 
off  from  your  preaching,  as  from  a  thong,  what- 
ever is  superfluous  and  foreign  to  it. 


1    Al'xKOf. 


Ver.  16.  "And  shun  profane  novelties  of 
speech."  * 

For  they  will  not  stop  there.  For  when  any- 
thing new  has  been  introduced,  it  is  ever  pro- 
ducing innovations,  and  the  error  of  him  who 
has  once  left  the  safe  harbor  is  infinite,  and 
never  stops. 

"  For  they  will  increase  unto  more  ungodli- 
ness," he  says, 

Ver.  17.  "And  their  word  will  eat  as  doth 
a  canker." 

It  is  an  evil  not  to  be  restrained,  not  curable 
by  any  medicine,  it  destroys  the  whole  frame. 
He  shows  that  novelty  of  doctrine  is  a  disease, 
and  worse  than  a  disease.  And  here  he  implies 
that  they  are  incorrigible,  and  that  they  erred 
not  weakly  but  willfully. 

"  Of  whom  is  Hymeneus  and  Phiietus," 

Ver.  18.  "Who  concerning  the  truth  have 
erred,  saying  that  the  resurrection  is  past  al- 
ready, and  overthrow  the  faith  of  some." 

He  has  well  said,  "They  will  increase  unto 
more  ungodliness."  For  it  appears  indeed  to 
be  a  solitary  evil,  but  see  what  evils  spring  out 
of  it.  For  if  the  Resurrection  is  already  past, 
not  only  do  we  suffer  loss  in  being  deprived  of 
that  great  glory,  but  because  judgment  is  taken 
away,  and  retribution  also.  For  if  the  Resur- 
rection is  past,  retribution  also  is  past.  The 
good  therefore  have  reaped  persecutions  and 
afflictions,  and  the  wicked  have  not  been  pun- 
ished, nay  verily,  they  live  in  great  pleasure.3 
It  were  better  to  say  that  there  is  no  resurrec- 
tion, than  that  it  is  already  past. 

"  And  overthrow,"  he  says,  "  the  faith  of 
some." 

"  Of  some,"  not  of  all.  For  if  there  is  no 
resurrection,  faith  is  subverted.  Our  preaching 
is  vain,  nor  is  Christ  risen ;  and  if  He  is  not 
risen,  neither  was  He  born,  nor  has  He  ascended 
into  heaven.  Observe  how  this  error,  while  it 
seems  to  oppose  the  doctrine  of  the  Resurrec- 
tion, draws  after  it  many  other  evils.  What 
then,  says  one,  ought  we  to  do  nothing  for  those 
who  are  subverted?4 

Ver.  19.  "Nevertheless,"  he  says,  "the  foun- 
dation of  God  standeth  sure,  having  this  seal, 
The  Lord  knoweth  them  that  are  His.  And, 
Let  every  one  that  nameth  the  name  of  the 
Ix)rd 5  depart  from  iniquity." 

He  shows  that  even  before  they  were  sub- 
verted, they  were  not  firm.     For  otherwise,  they 

*  Gr.  Kaivojwvias,  for  Ktvofatvias. 

3  Old  Lat.  here  has,  "  so  then  the  just  have  suffered  tribulations 
and  griefs  in  vain.  But  that  is  so  far  from  being  the  truth,  that  con- 
trariwise even  in  this  life  the  good  are  fed  with  their  own  hopes,  and 
have  a  foretaste  of  eternal  felicity,  persevering  always  with  a  serene 
and  tranquil  spirit,  and  the  wicked,  persecuted  by  the  scourge  of 
their  own  conscience,  begin  to  suffer  even  here  what  they  are  to 
suffer  for  ever."  But  this  seems  an  interpolation.  See,  however, 
on  Rom.  v.  5,  Horn.  ix. 

4  al.  "  Thus  much  of  those  who  aie  subverted;  but  of  those  who 
are  not  so,  what  says  he?" 

5  E.  V."  of  Christ." 


494 


WORKS   OF   ST.    CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  Y. 


would  not  have  been  overthrown  at  the  first 
attack,  as  Adam *  was  firm  before  the  command- 
ment. For  those  who  are  fixed  not  only  are 
not  harmed  through  deceivers,  but  are  even 
admired. 

And  he  calls  it  "  sure,"  and  a  "  foundation  "  ; 
so  ought  we  to  adhere  to  the  faith ;  "  having  this 
seal,  The  Lord  knoweth  them  that  are  His." 
What  is  this?  He  has  taken  it  from  Deuter- 
onomy ; 2  that  is,  Firm  souls  stand  fixed  and 
immovable.  But  whence  are  they  manifest? 
From  having  these  characters  inscribed  upon 
their  actions,  from  their  being  known  by  God, 
and  not  perishing  with  the  world,  and  from  their 
departing  from  iniquity. 

"  Let  every  one,"  he  says,  "  that  nameth  the 
name  of  the  Lord  depart  from  iniquity.'1 

These  are  the  distinguishing  marks  of  the 
foundation.  As3  a  foundation  is  shown  to  be 
firm,  and  as  letters  are  inscribed  upon  a  stone 
that  the  letters  may  be  significant.  But  these 
letters  are  shown  by  works,  "  Having,"  he  says, 
"  this  seal  "  fixed  thereon,  "  Let  every  one  that 
nameth  the  name  of  the  Lord  depart  from  in- 
iquity." Thus  if  any  one  is  unrighteous,  he  is 
not  of  the  foundation.  So  that  this  too  is  of  the 
seal,  not  to  do  iniquity. 

Moral.  Let  us  not  therefore  put  off  from  us 
the  royal  seal  and  token,  that  we  may  not  be 
of  thoue  who  are  not  sealed,  that  we  may  not 
be  unsound,  that  we  may  be  firmly  grounded, 
that  we  may  be  of  the  foundation,  and  not  car- 
ried to  and  fro.  This  marks  them  that  are  of 
God,  that  they  depart  from  iniquity.  For  how 
can  any  one  be  of  God  Who  is  just,  if  he  does 
iniquity,  if  by  his  works  he  opposes  Him,  if  he 
insults  Him  by  his  misdeeds?  Again  we  are 
speaking  against  injustice,  and  again  we  have 
many  that  are  hostile  to  us.  For  this  affection, 
like  a  tyrant,  has  seized  upon  the  souls  of  all, 
and,  what  is  worse,  not  by  necessity  nor  violence, 
but  by  persuasion  and  gentle  insinuation,  and 
they  are  grateful  for  their  slavery.  And  this  is 
indeed  the  misery  ;  for  if  they  were  held  by  con- 
straint and  not  by  love,  they  would  soon  depart. 
And  whence  is  it,  that  a  thing  which  is  most 
bitter,  appears  to  be  sweet?  whence  is  it  that 
righteousness,  which  is  a  most  sweet  thing,  be- 
comes bitter?  It  is  the  fault  of  our  senses. 
Thus  some  have  thought  honey  bitter,  and  have 
taken  with  pleasure  other  things  that  were  nox- 
ious. And  the  cause  is  not  in  the  nature  of 
things,  but  in  the  perverseness  of  the  sufferers. 

1  So  Sav.,  but  B.  and  one  Lat.,  "  as  neither  Adam."  Another 
I^at.  has  "  neither  was  Adam  before  the  attack  " :  as  he  says  on  Rom. 
vii.  9,  Horn.  xii.  "  neither  was  the  Tree  the  cause." 

2  Num.  xvi.  5? 

8  Downes  prefers  the  reading  of  MS.  Aug..  "  Such  an  one,  as  a 
foundation,  is  firmly  fixed,  having  this  seal  stamped  on  him.  Well 
said  he,  '  seal.'  For  as  when  one  writes  on  a  stone,  one  writes  that 
the  characters  may  signify  somewhat,  so  he  that  hath  these  charac- 
ters in  himself  is  made  manife<t  by  works.  *  And  let,'  "  &c,  which 
seems  better. 


The  judging  faculty  of  the  soul 4  is  disordered.5 
Just  as  a  balance,  if  its  beam  be  unsteady,6  moves 
round,  and  does  not  show  accurately  the  weight 
of  things  placed  in  it ;  so  the  soul,  if  it  has  not 
the  beam  of  its  own  thoughts  fixed,  and  firmly 
riveted  to  the  law  of  God,  being  carried  round 
and  drawn  down,  will  not  be  able  to  judge 
aright  of  actions. 

For  if  any  one  will  examine  carefully,  he  will 
perceive  the  great  bitterness  of  injustice,  not  to 
those  who  suffer  it,  but  to  those  who  practice  it, 
and  to  these  more  than  to  the  others.  And  let 
us  not  speak  of  things  future,  but  for  the  present 
of  things  here.  Hath  it  not  battles,  judgments, 
condemnation,  ill  will,  abuse  ?  what  is  more  bit- 
ter than  these?  Hath  it  not  enmities,  and  wars, 
and  accusations  ?  what  is  more  bitter  than  these  ? 
Hath  it  not  conscience  continually  scourging 
and  gnawing  us?  If  it  were  possible,  I  could 
wish  to  draw  out  from  the  body  the  soul  of 
the  unrighteous  man,  and  you  would  see  it 
pale  and  trembling,  ashamed,  hiding  its  head, 
anxiously  fearful,  and  self-condemned.  For 
should  we  sink  down  into  the  very  depths  of 
wickedness,  the  judging  faculty  of  the  mind :  is 
not  destroyed,  but  remains  unbribed.  And  no 
one  pursues  injustice  thinking  it  to  be  good, 
but  he  invents  excuses,  and  has  recourse  to 
every  artifice  of  words  to  shift  off  the  accusa- 
tion. But  he  cannot  get  it  off  his  conscience. 
Here  indeed  the  speciousness  of  words,  the 
corruption  of  rulers,  and  multitudes  of  flat- 
terers, is  often  able  to  throw  justice  into  the 
shade,  but  within,  the  conscience8  has  nothing 
of  this  sort,  there  are  no  flatterers  there,  no 
wealth  to  corrupt  the  judge.  For  the  faculty  of 
judging  is  naturally  implanted  in  us  by  God,  and 
what  comes  from  God  cannot  be  so  corrupted. 
But  uneasy  slumbers,  thick-coming  fancies,  and 
the  frequent  recollections  of  guilt,  destroy  our 
repose.  Has  any  one,  for  instance,  unjustly  de- 
prived another  of  his  house  ?  not  only  is  he  that 
is  robbed  rendered  unhappy,  but  the  man  who 
robbed  him.  If  he  is  persuaded  of  a  future 
judgment,  (if  indeed  any  one  is  so  persuaded. ) 
he  groans  exceedingly,  and  is  in  misery.  But  if 
he  believes  not  in  futurity,  yet  he  blushes  for 
shame ;  or  rather  there  is  no  man,  whether 
Greek,  Jew,  or  heretic,  who  is  not  afraid  of  a 
judgment  to  come. 

5  B.  reads  No<rct,  which  Hales  had  conjectured.     Sav.  has  N<h», 
"  consider  the  judging  faculty." 

0  irapatra\tvonevT)v.     He  seems  to  mean,  "  liable  to  slip  toward 
one  side." 

7  tov  vov,  which  he  seems  to  distinguish  here  from  the  soul.    Sec 
Rom.  vii.  23;  1  Cor.  ii.  14. 

•         "  fn  the  corrupted  currents  of  this  world 

Offense's  gilded  hand  may  shove  by  justice, 

And  oft  'tis  seen,  the  wicked  prize  itself 

Buys  out  the  law:  but  'tis  not  so  above  — 

There  is  no  shuffling —  there  the  action  lies 

In  its  true  nature  —  and  we  ourselves  compel  I M 

E'en  in  the  teeth  and  forehead  of  offense 

To  give  in  evidence."  —  Hamlet,  Act  iii.  *c.  j. 


Homily  V.] 


HOMILIES   ON   TIMOTHY. 


495 


And  although  he  is  not  a  philosopher  with  re- 
spect to  futurity ;  yet  he  fears  and  trembles  at 
what  may  befell  him  here,  lest  he  may  have  some 
retribution  in  his  property,  his  children,  his 
family,  or  his  life.  For  many  such  visitations 
God  inflicts.  For  since  the  doctrine  of  the 
Resurrection  is  not  sufficient  to  bring  all  men  to 
reason,  He  affords  even  here  many  proofs  of  His 
righteous  judgment,  and  exhibits  them  to  the 
world.  One  who  has  gained  wrongfully  is  with- 
out children,  another  falls  in  war,  another  is 
maimed  in  his  body,  another  loses  his  son.  He 
considers  these  things,  on  these  his  imagination 
dwells,  and  he  lives  in  continual  fear. 

Know  you  not  what  the  unrighteous  suffer?  Is 
there  no  bitterness  in  these  things?  And  were 
there  nothing  of  this  sort,  do  not  all  condemn 
him,  and  hate  and  abhor  him,  and  think  him  less 
rational  than  a  beast,  even  those  who  are  them- 
selves unrighteous  ?  For  if  they  condemn  them- 
selves, much  more  do  they  condemn  another, 
calling  him  rapacious,  fraudulent,  a  pestilent  fel- 
low. What  pleasure  then  can  he  enjoy?  He 
has  only  the  heavier  care  and  anxiety  to  pre- 
serve his  gains,  and  the  being  more  anxious  and 
troubled.  For  the  more  wealth  any  one  gets 
about  him,  the  more  painful  watchfulness  does 
he  store  up  for  himself.  Then  what  are  the 
curses  of  those  whom  he  has  wronged,  their 
pleadings  against  him  ? 1  And  what,  if  sickness 
should  befall  him  ?  For  it  is  impossible  for  one, 
who  has  fallen  into  sickness,  however  atheistically 
he  may  be  inclined,  not  to  be  anxious  about 
these  things,  not  to  be  thoughtful,  when  he  is 
unable  to  do  anything.  For  as  long  as  we  are 
here,  the  soul  enjoying  itself,  does  not  tolerate 
painful  thoughts :  but  when  it  is  about  to  take 
its  flight  from  the  body,  then  a  greater  fear  con- 
strains it,  as  entering  into  the  very  portals  of 
judgment.  Even  robbers,  whilst  they  are  in 
prison,  live  without  fear,  but  when  they  are 
brought  to  the  very  curtain  of  the  court,2  they 
sink  with  terror.  For  when  the  fear  of  death  is 
urgent,  like  a  fire  consuming  all  things  besides, 
it  obliges  the  soul  to  philosophize,  and  to  take 
thought  for  futurity.  The  desire  of  wealth,  the 
love  of  gain,  and  of  bodily  pleasures,  no  longer 
possesses  it.  These  things  passing  away  like 
clouds,  leave  the  judging  faculty  clear,  and  grief 
entering  in  softens  the  hard  heart.  For  nothing 
is  so  opposite  to  philosophy,  as  a  life  of  pleas- 
ure ;  nor,  on  the  other  hand,  is  anything  so 
favorable  to  philosophy  as  affliction.  Consider 
what  the  covetous  man  will  then  be.  For,  "  an 
hour  of  affliction,"  it  is  said,  "  maketh  a  man 
forget  much  pleasure."  (Ecclus.  ii.  27.)  What 
will  then  be  his  state,  when  he  considers  those 
whom    he   has   robbed,  and    injured,  and    de- 


(vrvxiai. 


irapair  era  Vfia. 


frauded,  when  he  sees  others  reaping  the  fruits 
of  his  grasping,  and  himself  going  to  pay  the 
penalty  ?  For  it  cannot,  indeed  it  cannot  be,  that 
when  fallen  into  sickness  he  should  not  reflect 
upon  these  things.  For  often  the  soul  of  itself 
is  distracted  with  agony  and  terror.  What  a 
bitterness  is  this,  tell  me  !  And  with  every  sick- 
ness these  things  must  be  endured.  And  what 
will  he  not  suffer  when  he  sees  others  punished 
or  put  to  death  ? 

These  things  await  him  here.  And  as  to  what 
he  must  undergo  hereafter,  it  is  not  possible  to 
say  what  punishment,  what  vengeance,  what  tor- 
ments, what  racks  are  reserved  for  him  There. 
These  things  we  declare.  "  He  that  hath  ears 
to  hear,  let  him  hear."  (Luke  viii.  8.)  We  are 
for  ever  discoursing  of  these  things,  not  willingly, 
but  of  necessity.  For  we  could  wish  there  were 
no  obligation  to  mention  such  things  at  all.  But 
since  it  must  be,  we  would  at  least,  by  a  little 
medicine,  deliver  you  from  your  disease,  and  re- 
store you  .to  health.  But  whilst  you  remain  in 
this  sickness,  it  would  show  a  mean  and  weak 
spirit,  not  to  say  cruelty  and  inhumanity,  to  de- 
sist from  the  healing  treatment.  For  if  when 
physicians  despair  of  our  bodies,  we  beseech 
them  not  to  neglect  us,  not  to  cease  to  our  last 
breath  applying  whatever  is  in  their  power,  shall 
we  not  much  more  exhort  ourselves  ?  For  perhaps 
when  we  have  come  to  the  very  gates  of  Hell, 
the  vestibule  of  wickedness  itself,  it  may  be  pos- 
sible to  recover,  to  renew  our  strength,  to  lay 
hold  on  eternal  life  !  How  many,  who  have 
heard  ten  times  and  remained  insensible,  have 
afterwards  at  one  hearing  been  converted  !  Or 
rather,  not  at  one  hearing;  for  though  they 
seemed  insensible  at  the  ten  discourses,  yet 
they  gained  something,  and  afterwards  showed 
all  at  once  abundant  fruit.  For  as  a  tree  may 
receive  ten  strokes,  and  not  fall ;  then  afterwards 
be  brought  down  all  at  once  by  a  single  blow : 
yet  it  is  not  done  by  that  one  blow,  but  by  the 
ten  which  made  that  last  successful.  And  this 
is  known  to  him  who  sees  the  root,  though  he 
who  takes  his  view  of  the  trunk  above  knows  it 
not.  So  it  is  in  this  case.  And  thus  often, 
when  physicians  have  applied  many  remedies, 
no  benefit  is  perceived;  but  afterwards  some 
one  comes  in  and  effects  an  entire  cure.  Yet  it 
is  not  the  work  of  him  alone,  but  of  these  who 
have  already  reduced  the  disorder.  So  that,  if 
now  we  do  not  bring  forth  the  fruits  of  hearing 
the  word,  yet  hereafter  we  shall.  For  that  we 
shall  bring  them  forth,  I  am  fully  persuaded. 
For  it  is  not,  indeed  it  is  not  possible  that  such 
eager  desire,  such  a  love  of  hearing,  should  fail 
of  its  effect.  God  forbid  !  But  may  we  all, 
having  become  worthy  of  the  admonitions  of 
Christ,  obtain  the  everlasting  blessings,  &c. 


496 


WORKS   OF   ST.   CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  VL 


HOMILY    VI. 


2  Timothy  ii.  20,  21. 


« 


But  in  a  great  house  there  are  not  only  vessels  of  gold 
and  of  silver,  but  also  of  wood  and  of  earth;  and 
some  to  honor,  and  some  to  dishonor.  If  a  man 
therefore  purge  himself  from  these,  he  shall  be  a 
vessel  unto  honor,  sanctified,  and  meet  for  the 
master's  use,  and  prepared  unto  every  good  work." 


Many  men  are  still  even  now  perplexed  to 
account  for  the  fact,  that  the  wicked  are  suffered 
to  remain,  and  are  not  yet  destroyed.  Now 
doubtless  various  reasons  may  be  assigned  for 
this,  as,  that  they  may  be  converted,  or  that  by 
their  punishment  they  may  be  made  an  example 
to  the  multitude.  But  Paul  here  mentions  a 
similar  case.     For  he  says, 

"  In  a  great  house  there  are  not  only  vessels 
of  gold  and  silver,  but  also  of  wood  and  earth." 
Showing  by  this,  that  as  in  a  great  house  it  is 
likely  there  should  be  a  great  difference  of  vessels, 
so  here  also,  in  the  whole  world,  for  he  speaks 
not  of  the  Church  only,  but  of  the  w.orld  at  large. 
For  think  not,  I  pray,  that  he  means  it  of  the 
Church ;  for  there  he  would  not  have  any  ves- 
sels of  wood  or  of  earth,  but  all  of  gold  or  silver, 
where  is  the  body  of  Christ,  where  is  that  "  pure 
virgin,  without  spot,  or  wrinkle,  or  any  such  thing." 
(Eph.  v.  27.)  And  this  is  what  he  means  to  say  : 
Let  it  not  disturb  thee  that  there  are  corrupt  and 
wicked  men.  For  in  a  great  house  there  are  such 
vessels.  But  what  then?  they  do  not  receive 
the  same  honor.  But  some  are  to  honor  and 
some  to  dishonor.  "  Nay,"  says  one,  "  in  a  house 
they  may  be  of  some  use,  but  not  at  all  in  the 
world."  Though  God  employs  them  not  for 
such  honorable  service,  he  makes  use  of  them 
for  other  purposes.  For  instance,  the  vainglo- 
rious man  builds  much,  so  does  the  covetous 
man,  the  merchant,  the  tradesman,  the  magis- 
trate ;  there  are  certain  works  in  the  world 
suited  to  these.  But  the  golden  vessel  is  not  of 
such  a  nature.  It  is  employed  about  the  royal 
table.  He  does  not  say  however  that  wicked- 
ness is  a  necessary  thing,  (for  how  should  it 
be  ?)  but  that  the  wicked  also  have  their  work. 
For  if  all  were  of  gold  or  of  silver,  there  would 
be  no  need  of  the  viler  sort.  For  instance,  if  all 
were  hardy,  there  would  be  no  need  of  houses ; 
if  all  were  free  from  luxury,  there  would  be  no 
need  of  dainties.  If  all  were  careful  only  for 
necessaries,  there  would  be  no  need  of  splendid 
building. 

"  If  therefore  a  man  purge  himself  from  these, 
he  shall  be  a  vessel  unto  honor,  sanctified." 
Seest  thou  that  it  is  not  of  nature,  nor  of  the 


necessity  of  matter,  to  be  a  vessel  of  gold  or  of 
earth,  but  of  our  own  choice?  For  otherwise 
the  earthen  could  not  become  gold,  nor  could 
the  golden  descend  to  the  viieness  of  the  other. 
But  in  this  case  there  is  much  change,  and  alter- 
ation of  state.  Paul  was  an  earthen  vessel,  and 
became  a  golden  one.  Judas  was  a  golden  ves- 
sel, and  became  an  earthen  one.  The  earthen 
vessels,  therefore,  are  such  from  uncleanness. 
The  fornicator  and  the  covetous  man  become 
earthen  vessels.  "But  how  then  does  he  say 
elsewhere, '  We  have  this  treasure  in  earthen  ves- 
sels/ so  that  he  does  not  despise  but  honor  the 
earthen  vessel,  speaking  of  it  as  the  recipient  of 
the  treasure?"  There  he  shows  the  nature  it- 
self, and  not  the  form  of  the  material.  For  he 
means  to  say  that  our  body  is  an  earthen  vessel. 
For  as  earthenware  is  nothing  else  but  baked 
clay,  so  is  our  body  nothing  but  clay  consoli- 
dated by  the  heat  of  the  soul;  for  that  it  is 
earthen,  is  evident.  For  as  such  a  vessel  is 
often  by  falling  broken  and  dashed  to  pieces,  so 
our  body  falls  and  is  dissolved  by  death.  For 
how  do  our  bones  differs  from  a  potsherd,  hard 
and  dry  as  they  are  ?  or  our  flesh  from  clay,  be- 
ing, like  it,  composed  of  water?  But,  as  I  said, 
how  is  it  that  he  does  not  speak  contemptuously 
of  it  ?  Because  there  he  is  discoursing  of  its 
nature,  here  of  our  choice.  "  If  a  man,"  he 
says,  "  purge  himself  from  these,"  not  merely 
"  cleanse,"  but  "  cleanse  out," l  that  is,  cleanse 
himself  perfectly,  "he  shall  be  a  vessel  unto 
honor,  sanctified,  and  meet  for  the  Master's 
use."  The  others  therefore  are  useless  for  any 
good  purpose,  though  some  use  is  made  of  them. 
"  And  prepared 2  unto  every  good  work."  Even 
though  he  do  it  not,  he  is  fit  for  it,  and  has  a 
capacity  for  it.  We  ought  therefore  to  be  pre- 
pared for  everything,  even  for  death,  for  martyr- 
dom, for  a  life  of  virginity,  or  for  ail  these. 
Ver.  22.  "  Flee  also  youthful  lusts." 
Not  only  the  lust  of  fornioation,  but  every  in- 
ordinate desire  is  a  youthful  lust.  Let  the  aged 
learn  that  they  ought  not  to  do  the  deeds  of  the 
youthful.  If  one  be  given  to  insolence,  or  a 
lover  of  power,  of  riches,  of  bodily  pleasures,  it 
is  a  youthful  lust,  and  foolish.  These  things 
must  proceed  from  a  heart  not  yet  established, 
from  a  mind  not  deeply  grounded,  but  in  a  wav- 
ering state.     What  then  does  he  advise  in  order 


1  (KKaddpjj. 

-  B.  "  Tney  arc  not,  however, '  prepared/  **  &c. 


Homily  VI.] 


HOMILIES   ON    TIMOTHY. 


497 


that  none  may  be  captivated  by  these  things? 
"  Flee  youthful  "  imaginations,  "  but 

"  Follow  righteousness,  faith,  charity,  peace, 
with  them  that  call  on  the  Lord  out  of  a  pure 
heart." 

He  calls  virtue  in  general,  "  righteousness  "  : 
godliness  of  life,  "  faith,  meekness,  charity." 

What  is  meant  by  "  those  that  call  upon  the 
Lord  out  of  a  pure  heart  "  ?  It  is  as  if  he  said, 
Rejoice  not  in  those  who  only  call  upon  the 
Lord ;  but  those  who  call  upon  Him  sincerely 
and  unfeignedly,  who  have  nothing  of  deceit 
about  them,  who  approach  Him  in  peace,  who 
are  not  contentious.  With  these  associate  thy- 
self. But  with  others  be  not  easy,  but  only  as 
far  as  lies  in  you,  be  peaceable. 

Ver.  23.  "  But  foolish  and  unlearned  ques- 
tions avoid,  knowing  that  they  do  gender  strifes." 

Do  you  see  how  he  everywhere  draws  him  off 
from  questions ;  not  that  he  was  not  able  to  over- 
throw them ;  for  he  was  well  able.  For  had  he 
not  been  able  he  would  have  said,  Be  diligent,  that 
thou  mayest  be  able  to  refute  them ;  as  when  he 
says, "  Give  attendance  to  reading,  for  by  so  doing 
thou  shalt  both  save  thyself  and  them  that  hear 
thee."  (1  Tim.  iv.  13,  16.)  But  he  knew  that 
it  was  useless  to  enter  at  all  into  these  dis- 
putes, that  there  will  be  no  end  of  it,  save 
contentions,  enmities,  insults,  and  reproaches. 
These  "  questions  "  therefore  '*  avoid  "  ;  so  that 
there  are  other  questions,  some  relating  to  the 
Scriptures,  some  to  other  things. 

Ver.  24.  "  And  the  servant  of  the  Lord  must 
not  strive." 

Not  even  in  questions  ought  he  to  strive,  for 
the  servant  of  the  Lord  must  keep  far  from 
strife,  since  God  is  the  God  of  peace,  and  what 
should  the  servant  of  the  God  of  peace  have  to 
do  with  strife  ? 

"  But  be  gentle  unto  all  men." 

How  is  it  then  he  says,  "Rebuke  with  all 
authority"  (Tit.  ii.  15);  and  again,  "Let  no 
man  despise  thy  youth"  (1  Tim.  iv.  12)  : 
and  again,  "Rebuke  them  sharply"?  (Tit.  i. 
13.)  Because  this  is  consistent  with  meekness. 
For  a  strong  rebuke,  if  it  be  given  with  gentle- 
ness, is  most  likely  to  wound  deeply :  for  it  is 
possible,  indeed  it  is,  to  touch  more  effectually 
by  gentleness,  than  one  overawes  by  boldness. 

"  Apt  to  teach  "  ;  that  is,  those  who  are  willing 
to  be  taught.  For  "  a  man  that  is  an  heretic," 
he  says,  "  after  the  first  and  second  admonition 
reject."  (Tit.  iii.  10.)  "Patient."  He  has  well 
added  this,  for  it  is  a  quality  which  a  teacher 
above  all  things  ought  to  possess.  All  things 
are  vain  without  it.  And  if  fishermen  do  not 
despair,  though  often  they  cast  their  nets  for 
a  whole  day  without  catching  anything,  much 
more  should  not  we.  For  see  what  is  the 
result.     From  constant  teaching,  it  often  hap- 


pens that  the  plow  of  the  word,  descending  to 
the  depth  of  the  soul,  roots  out  the  evil  passion 
that  troubled  it.  For  he  that  hears  often  will  at 
length  be  affected.  A  man  cannot  go  on  hear- 
ing continually  without  some  effect  being  pro- 
duced. Sometimes  therefore,  when  he  was  on 
the  point  of  being  persuaded,  he  is  lost  by  our 
becoming  weary.  For  the  same  thing  occurs, 
as  if  an  unskillful  husbandman  should  in  the  first 
year  dig  about  the  vine  he  had  planted,  and 
seeking  to  reap  some  fruit  in  the  second  year, 
and  again  in  the  third,  and  gathering  nothing, 
should  after  three  years  despair,  and  in  the 
fourth  year,  when  he  was  about  to  receive  the  rec- 
ompense of  his  labors,  abandon  his  vine.  And 
having  said,  "  Patient,"  he  is  not  satisfied,  but 
goes  on  to  say, 

Ver.  25.  "In  meekness  instructing  those  that 
oppose  themselves." 

For  he  that  teaches  must  be  especially  care- 
ful to  do  it  with  meekness.  For  a  soul  that 
wishes  to  learn  cannot  gain  any  useful  instruction 
from  harshness  and  contention.  For  when  it 
would  apply,  being  thus  thrown  into  perplexity, 
it  will  learn  nothing.  He  who  would  gain  any 
useful  knowledge  ought  above  all  things  to  be 
well  disposed  towards  his  teacher,  and  if  this  be 
not  previously  attained,  nothing  that  is  requisite 
or  useful  can  be  accomplished.  And  no  one 
can  be  well  disposed  towards  him  who  is  violent 
and  overbearing.  How  is  it  then  that  he  says, 
"  A  man  that  is  an  heretic,  after  the  first  and 
second  admonition,  reject"?  He  speaks  there 
of  one  incorrigible,  of  one  whom  he  knows  to  be 
diseased  beyond  the  possibility  'of  cure. 

"  If  God  peradventure  will  give  them  repent- 
ance to  the  acknowledging  of  the  truth." 

Ver.  26.  "  And  that  they  may  recover  them- 
selves out  of  the  snare  of  the  devil." 

What  he  says  amounts  to  this.  Perhaps  there 
will  be  a  reformation.  Perhaps !  for  it  is  un- 
certain. So  that  we  ought  to  withdraw  only 
from  those,  of  whom  we  can  show  plainly,  and 
concerning  whom  we  are  fully  persuaded,  that 
whatever  be  done,  they  will  not  be  reformed. 
"  In  meekness,"  he  says.  In  this  temper,  you 
see,  we  ought  to  address  ourselves  to  those  who 
are  willing  to  learn,  and  never  cease  from  con- 
versing with  them  till  we  have  come  to  the 
demonstration.1 

"  Who  are  taken  captive  by  him  at  his  will." 

It  is  truly  said,  "  Who  are  taken  captive,"*  for 
meanwhile  they  float  in  error.  Observe  here 
how  he  teaches  to  be  humble-minded.  He 
has  not  said,  if  peradventure  you  should  be  able, 
but,  "  if  peradventure  God  should  grant  them  a 
recovery";  if  anything  be  done,  therefore,  all 

1  That  is,  we  ought  not  to  be  provoked  by  their  slowness  of 
apprehension  to  break  off. 

9  c^MyptyicVot,  "  taken  alive/'  applied  to  fish  enclosed  in  a  not. 


498 


WORKS   OF   ST.    CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  VI. 


is  of  the  Lord.  Thou  plantest,  thou  waterest, 
but  He  soweth  and  maketh  it  produce  fruit.  Let 
us  not  therefore  be  so  affected,  as  if  we  ourselves 
wrought  the  persuasion,  even  if  we  should  per- 
suade any  one.  "Taken  captive  by  him,"  he 
says,  u  to  His  will." 1  This  no  one  will  say  re- 
lates to  doctrine,  but  to  life.  For  "  His  will  " 
is  that  we  live  rightly.  But  some  are  in  the 
snare  of  the  devil  by  reason  of  their  life,  we 
ought  not  therefore  to  be  weary  even  with 
respect  to  these. 

"If  perad venture,"  he  says,  "they  may  re- 
cover, that  are  taken  captive,  unto  His  will." 
Now  "  If  perad  venture,"  implies  much  longsuf- 
fering.  For  not  to  do  the  will  of  God  is  a  snare 
of  the  devil. 

For  as  a  sparrow,  though  it  be  not  wholly  en- 
closed, but  only  caught  by  the  foot,  is  still  under 
the  power  of  him  who  set  the  snare  ;  so  though 
we  be  not  wholly  subverted,  both  in  faith  and 
life,  but  in  life  only,  we  are  under  the  power  of 
the  devil.  For,  "  Not  every  one  that  saith  unto 
me,  Lord,  Lord,  shall  enter  into  the  kingdom  of 
heaven  "  ;  and  again,  "  I  know  you  not ;  depart 
from  me,  ye  that  work  iniquity."  (Matt.  vii. 
21-23.)  You  see  there  is  no  advantage  from 
our  faith,  when  our  Lord  knows  us  not :  and  to 
the  virgins  he  says  the  same,  "  I  know  you  not." 
(Matt.  xxv.  12.)  What  then  is  the  benefit  of 
virginity,  or  of  many  labors,  when  the  Lord 
knows  us  not?  And  in  many  places  we  find 
men  not  blamed  for  their  faith,  but  punished  for 
their  evil  life  only ;  as  elsewhere,  not  reproved 
for  evil  lives,  but  perishing  for  their  pravity  of 
doctrine.  For  these  things  hold  together.2  You 
see  that  when  we  do  not  the  will  of  God,  we  are 
under  the  snare  of  the  devil.  And  often  not 
only  from  a  bad  life,  but  from  one  defect;  we 
enter  into  Hell,  where  there  are  not  good  quali- 
ties to  counterbalance  it,  since  the  virgins  were 
not  accused  of  fornication  or  adultery,  nor  of 
envy  or  ill-will,  nor  of  drunkenness,  nor  of  un- 
sound faith,  but  of  a  failure  of  oil,  that  is,  they 
failed  in  almsgiving,  for  that  is  the  oil  meant.3 
And  those  who  were  pronounced  accursed  in 
the  words,  "  Depart  from  me,  ye  cursed,  into 
everlasting  fire,"  were  not  accused  of  any  such 
crimes,  but  because  they  had  not  fed  Christ. 

Moral.  Seest  thou  that  a  failure  in  alms- 
giving is  enough  to  cast  a  man  into  hell  fire  ? 
For  where  will  he  avail  who  does  not  give  alms  ? 
Dost  thou  fast  every  day?     So  also  did  those 


1  Gr.  "  To  His  will."  As  avrou  and  oceiVov  must  refer  to  two 
different  persons,  the  meaning  probably  is,  "  that  they  who  are 
talcrii  captive  by  the  devil  may  De  recovered  to  the  will  of  God." 
And  so  he  takes  it. 

*  Sav.  aAATJAcoy  t\tTai.  Ben.  cp\cTai,  which  would  be  hardly 
Greek  even  with  a  preposition. 

3  So  he  takes  it  on  Matt.  xxv.  Horn,  lxxviii.  al.  lxxix.  See  also 
on  Phil.  i.  30,  Horn.  iv.  15,  and  notes,  and  on  Rom.  xi.  6,  and  on 
Rom.  xiv.  13.  St.  Jerome  and  St.  Aug.  take  the  oil  more  generally 
of  gDod  works,  with  allusion  to  Matt.  v.  16. 


virgins,  but  it  availed  them  nothing.  Dost  thou 
pray?  What  of  that?  prayer  without  alms- 
giving is  unfruitful,  without  that  all  things  are 
unclean  and  unprofitable.  The  better  part  of 
virtue  is  destroyed.  "  He  that  loveth  not  his 
brother,"  it  is  said,  "knoweth  not  God."  (i 
John  iv.  8.)  And  how  dost  thou  love  him,  when 
thou  dost  not  even  impart  to  him  of  these  poor 
worthless  things?  Tell  me,  therefore,  dost  thou 
observe  chastity?  On  what  account?  From 
fear  of  punishment?  By  no. means.  It  is  of  a 
natural  endowment  that  thou  observest  it,  since 
if  thou  wast  chaste  from  fear  of  punishment,  and 
didst  violence  to  nature  in  submitting  to  so 
severe  a  rule,  much  more  oughtest  thou  to  do 
alms.  Fpr  to  govern  the  desire  of  wealth,  and 
of  bodily  pleasures,  is  not  the  same  thing.  The 
latter  is  much  more  difficult  to  restrain.  And 
wherefore?  Because  the  pleasure  is  natural,  and 
the  desire  of  it  is  innate  and  of  natural  growth 
in  the  body.  It  is  not  so  with  riches.  Herein 
we  are  able  to  resemble  God,  in  showing  mercy 
and  pity.  When  therefore  we  have  not  this 
quality,  we  are  devoid  of  all  good.  He  has  not 
said,  "  ye  shall  be  like  unto  your  Father,  if  ye 
fast,"  nor  "  if  ye  be  virgins,"  nor  "  if  ye  pray," 
hath  He  said,  "ye  shall  be  like  unto  your  Father," 
for  none  of  these  things  can  be  applied  to  God, 
nor  are  they  His  acts.  But  what?  "Be  ye 
merciful,  as  your  Father  in  Heaven  is  merciful." 
(Luke  vi.  36.)  This  is  the  work  of  God.  If 
therefore  thou  hast  not  this,  what  hast  thou? 
He  says :  "  I  will  have  mercy,  and  not  sacri- 
fice." (Hosea  vi.  6.)  God  made  Heaven,  and 
earth,  and  sea.  Great  works  these,  and  worthy 
of  His  wisdom  !  But  by  none  of  these  has  He  so 
powerfully  attracted  human  nature  to  Himself, 
as  by  mercy  and  the  love  of  mankind.  For  that 
indeed  is  the  work  of  power  and  wisdom  and 
goodness.  But  it  is  far  more  so  that  He  became 
a  servant.  Do  we  not  for  this  more  especially 
admire  Him?  are  we  not  for  this  still  more 
amazed  at  Him  ?  Nothing  attracts  God  to  us  so 
much  as  mercy.  And  the  prophets  from  begin- 
ning to  end  discourse  upon  this  subject.  But  I 
speak  not  of  mercy  that  is  accompanied  with 
covetousness.  That  is  not  mercy.  For  it  is  not 
the  root  of  the  thorn  but  of  the  olive  that  produces 
the  oil4;  so  it  is  not  the  root  of  covetousness, 
of  iniquity,  or  of  rapine,  that  produces  mercy. 
Do  not  put  a  slander  on  almsgiving.  Do  not 
cause  it  to  be  evil  spoken  of  by  all.  If  thou 
committest  robbery  for  this,  that  thou  mayest 
give  alms,  nothing  is  more  wicked  than  thy 
almsgiving.  For  when  it  is  produced  by  rapine, 
it  is  not  almsgiving,  it  is  inhumanity,  it  is  cruelty, 
it  is  an  insult  to  God.  If  Cain  so  offended,  by 
offering  inferior  gifts  of  his  own,  shall  he  not 

4  He  plays,  as  elsewhere,  on  the  words  cAtor  and  «A«ior. 


Homily  VI.] 


HOMILIES   ON    TIMOTHY. 


499 


offend,  who  offers  the  goods  of  another?  An 
offering  is  nothing  else  but  a  sacrifice,  a  purifica- 
tion, not  a  pollution.  And  thou  who  darest  not 
to  pray  with  unclean  hands,  dost  thou  offer  the 
dirt  and  filth  of  robbery,  and  think  thou  doest 
nothing  wrong?  Thou  sufferest  not  thy  hands 
to  be  full  of  dirt  and  filth,  but  having  first 
cleansed  these,  thou  offerest.  Yet  that  filth  is 
no  charge  against  thee,  while  the  other  deserves 
reproach  and  blame.  Let  it  not  therefore  be 
our  consideration,  how  we  may  offer  prayers  and 
oblations  with  clean  hands,  but  how  the  things 
offered  may  be  pure.  If  one,  after  having 
washed  a  vessel  clean,  should  fill  it  with  unclean 
gifts,  would  it  not  be  ridiculous  mockery  ?  Let 
the  hands  be  clean ;  and  they  will  be. so,  if  we 
wash  them  not  with  water  only,  but  first  with 
righteousness.  This  is  the  purifier  of  the  hands. 
But  if  they  be  full  of  unrighteousness,  though 
they  be  washed  a  thousand  times,  it  avails  noth- 
ing. "  Wash  you,  make  you  clean  "  (Isa.  i.  16), 
He  says,  but  does  He  add,  "  Go  to  the  baths, 
the  lakes,  the  rivers  " ?  No ;  but  what?  "  Put 
away  the  evil  of  your  doings  from  your  sou  Is. " 
This  is  to  be  clean.1  This  it  is  to  be  cleansed 
from  defilement.  This  is  real  purity.  The  other 
is  of  little  use ;  but  this  bestows  upon  us  confi- 
dence towards  God.  The  one  may  be  obtained 
by  adulterers,  thieves,  murderers,  by  worthless, 
and  dissolute,  and  effeminate  persons,  and  espec- 
ially the  latter.  For  they  are  ever  careful  of 
the  cleanliness  of  their  bodies,  and  scented  with 
perfumes,  cleansing  their  sepulcher.2  For  their 
body*  is  but  a  sepulcher,  since  the  soul  is  dead 
within  it.  This  cleanness  therefore  may  be 
theirs,4  but  not  that  which  is  inward. 

To  wash  the  body  is  no  great  matter.  That 
is  a  Jewish  purification,  senseless 6  and  unprofit- 
able, where  purity  within  is  wanting.  Suppose 
one  to  labor  under  a  putrefying  sore,  or  con- 
suming ulcer;  let  him  wash  his  body  ever  so 
much,  it  is  of  no  advantage.  And  if  the  putre- 
faction of  the  body  receives  no  benefit  from 
cleansing  and  disguising  the  outward  appear- 
ance ;  when  the  soul  is  infected  with  rottenness, 
what  is  gained  by  the  purity  of  the  body? 
Nothing  1  Our  prayers  ought  to  be  pure,  and 
pure  they  cannot  be,  if  they  are  sent  forth  from 
a  corrupt  soul,  and  nothing  so  corrupts  the  soul 
as  avarice  and  rapine.  But  there  are  some  who 
after  committing  numberless  sins  during  the  day, 
wash  themselves  in  the  evening  and  enter  the 
churches,  holding  up  their  hands  with  much 
confidence,  as  if  by  the  washing  of  the  bath 
they  had  put  off  all  their  guilt.  And  if  this 
were  the  case,  it  would  be  a  vast  advantage  to 

1  B.,  though  usually  here  far  inferior  to  the  printed  text,  seems 
best  in  these  words.  Sav.  has,  "  That  is,  be  clean :  this  it  is  that 
cleanses/'  &c. 


o^jmu 


•  B.  reads  M'Ttipat,  for  jicricVat. 
«  Sav.  "useless." 


use  the  bath  daily  !  I  would  not  myself  cease 
to  frequent  the  baths,6  if  it  made  us  pure,  and 
cleansed  us  from  our  sins  !  But  these  things  are 
trifling  and  ridiculous,  the  toys  of  children.  It 
is  not  the  filth  of  the  body,  but  the  impurity  of 
the  soul,  to  which  God  is  averse.  For  He  says, 
"  Blessed  are  the  pure  "  —  does  He  say  in  body? 
No  —  "in  heart:  for  they  shall  see  God." 
(Matt.  v.  8.)  And  what  says  the  Prophet: 
"Create  in  me  a  clean  heart,  O  God."  (Ps.  li. 
io.)  And  again,  "  Wash  my  heart  from  wicked- 
ness." (Jer.  iv.  14.) 

It  is  of  great  use  to  be  in  the  habit  of  doing 
good  actions.  See  how  trifling  and  unprofitable 
these  washings  are.  But  when  the  soul  is  pre- 
possessed by  a  habit,  it  does  not  depart  from  it, 
nor  does  it  venture  to  draw  nigh  in  prayer,  till  it 
has  fulfilled  these  ceremonies.  For  instance,  we 
have  brought  ourselves  to  a  habit  of  washing  and 
praying,  and  without  washing  we  do  not  think  it 
right  to  pray.  And  we  do  not  willingly  pray 
with  unwashed  hands,  as  if  we  should  offend 
God,  and  violate  our  conscience.  Now  if  this 
trifling  custom  has  so  great  power  over  us,  and 
is  observed  every  day ;  if  we  had  brought  our- 
selves to  a  habit  of  almsgiving,  and  had  de- 
termined so  constantly  to  observe  it,  as  never  to 
enter  a  house  of  prayer  with  empty  hands,  the 
point  would  be  gained.  For  great  is  the  power 
of  habit  both  in  good  things  and  in  evil,  and 
when  this  carries  us  on,  there  will  be  little 
trouble.  Many  are  in  the  habit  of  crossing7 
themselves  continually,  and  they  need  no  one 
to  remind  them  of  it,  but  often  when  the  mind 
is  wandering  after  other  things,  the  hand  is  in- 
voluntarily drawn  by  custom,  as  by  some  living 
teacher,  to  make  the  sign.  Some  have  brought 
themselves  into  a  habit  of  not  swearing  at  all, 
and  therefore  neither  willingly  nor  unwillingly 
do  they  ever  do  it.  Let  us  then  bring  ourselves 
into  such  a  habit  of  almsgiving. 

What  labors  were  it  worth  to  us  to  discover 
such  a  remedy.  For  say,  were  there  not  the 
relief  of  almsgiving,  while  we  still  by  our  num- 
berless sins  rendered  ourselves  liable  to  Divine 
vengeance,  should  we  not  have  lamented  sadly? 
Should  we  not  have  said,  O  that  it  were  possible 
by  our  wealth  to  wash  away  our  sins,  and  we 
would  have  parted  with  it  all !  O  that  by  our 
riches  we  could  put  away  the  wrath  of  Gqc^ 
then  we  would  not  spare  our  substance?  Fdr 
if  we  do  this  in  sickness,  and  at  the  point. of 
death  we  say,  "If  it  were  possible  to  buy  off. 
death,  such  an  one  would  give  all  his  posses- 
sions " ;  much  more  in  this  matter.  For  see 
how  great  is  the  love  of  God  for  man.  He  has 
granted  us  power  to  buy  off  not  temporal  but 

•  This  was  thought  too  luxurious  for  persons  of  devout  Hfe.  See 
Euseb.  ii.  2^,  and  St.  Clem.  Al.  Pxdag.  iii.  9,  who  recommends  pro- 
viding for  cleanliness  by  other  means. 

"  <rQ?ay(£civ. 


5oo 


WORKS   OF   ST.    CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  VII. 


eternal  death.  Do  not  purchase,  He  says,  this 
short  life,  but  that  life  that  is  everlasting.  It  is 
that  I  sell  thee,  not  the  other :  I  do  not  mock 
thee.  Didst  thou  gain  the  present  life,  thou 
hadst  gained  nothing.  I  know  the  worth  of  that 
which  I  offer  thee.  The  bargainers  and  traf- 
fickers in  worldly  goods  do  not  act  thus.  They, 
when  they  can *  impose  on  whom  they  will,  give 
a  little  to  receive  a  great  deal.  It  is  not  so  with 
God.     He  gives  the  greater  by  far  for  the  less. 

Tell  me,  if  you  were  to  go  to  a  merchant,  and 
he  were  to  set  before  you  two  stones,  one  of 
Kttle  worth,2  and  the  other  very  precious,  and 
sure  to  fetch  a  large  amount  of  wealth ;  if  he 
allowed  you  for  the  price  of  the  cheap  one  to 
carry  off  the  more  costly,  should  you  complain 
of  him?  No  !  You  would  rather  admire  his 
liberality.  So  now,  two  lives  are  set  before  us, 
the  one  temporal,  the  other  eternal.  These 
God  offers  us  for  sale,  but  He  would  sell  us  the 
latter  rather  than  the  former.  Why  do  we  com- 
plain, like  silly  children,  that  we  receive  the 
more  precious?8  Is  it  possible  then  to  pur- 
chase life  for  money?  Yes,  when  what  we  be- 
stow is  our  own,  and  not  the  property  of  another ; 
when  we  do  not  practice  an  imposture.    But, 


you  say,  henceforth  the  goods  are  mine.  They 
are  not  thine  after  rapine.  They  are  still  thy 
neighbors,  though  thou  wert  a  thousand  times 
the  master  of  them.  For  if  thou  shouldest  re- 
ceive a  deposit,  it  would  not  be  thine  own  even 
for  the  short  season  that  the  depositor  was 
traveling,  though  it  might  be  laid  up  with 
thee.  If  therefore  that  is  not  ours,  which 
we  received  with  the  consent  and  thanks  of 
those  who  deposited  it,  even  for  the  short 
period  that  we  retain  it,  much  less  is  that 
ours,  which  we  plundered  against  the  will  of 
its  owner.  He  is  the  master  of  it,  however 
long  thou  mayest  withhold  it.  But  Virtue  is4 
really  our  own ;  as  for  money,  even  our  own  is 
not  strictly  ours,  much  less  that  of  others.  To- 
day it  is  ours,  to-morrow  it  belongs  to  another. 
What  is  of  virtue  is  our  own  possession.  This 
does  not  suffer  loss,  like  other  things,  but  is 
entirely  possessed  by  all  who  have  it.  This 
therefore  let  us  acquire,  and  let  us  despise  riches, 
that  we  may  be  able  to  attain  those  real  goods, 
of  which  God  grant  that  we  may  be  thought 
worthy  to  partake,  through  the  grace  and  loving- 
kindness,  &c. 


HOMILY   VII. 

2  Timothy  iii.  1-7. 


"This  know  also,  that  in  the  last  days  perilous  times 
shall  come.  For  men  shall  be  lovers  of  their  own 
selves,  covetous,  boasters,  proud,  blasphemers,  dis- 
obedient to  parents,  unthankful,  unholy,  Without 
natural  affection,  truce-breakers,  false  accusers,  in- 
continent, fierce,  despisers  of  those  that  are  good, 
Traitors,  heady,  high-minded,  lovers  of  pleasure 
more  than  lovers  of  God;  Having  a  form  of  godli- 
ness, but  denying  the  power  thereof;  from  such  turn 
away.  For  of  this  sort  are  they,  which  creep  into 
houses,  and  lead  captive  silly  women  laden  with 
sins,  led  away  with  divers  lusts  and  pleasures,  Ever 
learning,  and  never  able  to  come  to  the  knowledge 
of  the  truth." 


He  had  said  in  the  former  Epistle,  that  "  the 
Spirit  speaketh  expressly,  that  in  the  latter  times 
some  shall  depart  from  the  faith"  (1  Tim.  iv. 
1,  2)  ;  and  elsewhere  in  this  Epistle  he  foretells 
that  something  of  this  kind  will  afterwards  hap- 
pen ;  and  here  again  he  does  the  same  thing : 
"  This  know,  that  in  the  last  days  perilous  times 
shall  come."  And  this  he  pronounces  not  only 
from  the  future,  but  from  the  past ;  "  As  Jannes 
and  Jambres   withstood   Moses."      And   again 


1  B.  <(rj  for  i£riv.  *  B.  counterfeit. 

*  B.  reads  o^ci  for  ori.    "  We  take  the  value  by  sight." 


from  reasoning;  "In  a  great  house  there  are 
not  only  vessels  of  gold  and  of  silver."  But 
why  does  he  do  this?  In  order  that  Timothy 
may  not  be  troubled,  nor  any  one  of  us,  when 
there  are  evil  men.  If  there  were  such  in  the 
time  of  Moses,  and  will  be  hereafter,  it  is  no 
wonder  that  there  are  such  in  our  times. 

"  In  the  last  days  perilous  times  shall  come/1 
he  says,  that  is,  exceeding  bad  times.  How 
shall  times  be  perilous?'  He  says  it  not  blam- 
ing the  days,  nor  the  times,  but  the  men  of  those 
times.  For  thus  it  is  customary  with  us  to  speak 
of  good  times  or  evil  times,  from  the  events 
that  happen  in  them,  caused  by  men.  Imme- 
diately he  sets  down  the  root  and  fountain, 
whence  these  and  all  other  evils  spring,  that  is, 
overweeningness.  He  that  is  seized  with  this 
passion  is  careless  even  of  his  own  interests. 
For  when  a  man  overlooks  the  concerns  of  his 
neighbor,  and  is  careless  of  them,  how  should 
he  regard  his  own?  For  as  he  that  looks  to 
his  neighbor's  affairs  will  in  them  order  his  own 


4  B.  "  those  other  thinsjs  are." 

5  B.  adds,  "  that  is,M  &c. 


Homily  VII.] 


HOMILIES   ON    TIMOTHY. 


50I 


to  advantage,  so  he  that  looks  down  upon  his 
neighbor's  concerns  will  neglect  his  own.  For 
if  we  are  members  one  of  another,  the  welfare 
of  our  neighbor  is  not  his  concern  only,  but  that 
of  the  whole  body,  and  the  injury  of  our  neigh- 
bor is  not  confined  to  him,  but  distracts  with 
pains  all  else  as  well.1  If  we  are  a  building, 
whatever  part  is  weakened,  it  affects  the  whole, 
whilst  that  which  is  solid  gives  strength  and 
support  to  the  rest.  So  also  in  the  Church,  if 
thou  hast  slighted  thy  neighbor,  thou  has  in- 
jured thyself.  How?  In  that  one  of  thy  own 
members  hath  suffered  no  small  hurt.  And  if 
he,  who  does  not  impart  of  his  possessions,  goes 
into .  Hell,  much  more  will  he  be  condemned, 
who  sees  a  neighbor  suffering  severer  evils,  and 
does  not  stretch  out  his  hand,  since  in  this  case 
the  loss  is  more  grievous. 

"  For  men  shall  be  lovers  of  their  own  selves." 
He  that  loves  himself  may  be  said  not  to  love 
himself,  but  he  that  loves  his  brother,  loves  him- 
self in  the  truest  sense.  From  self-love  springs 
covetousness.  For  the  wretched  niggardly  tem- 
per of  self-love  contracts  that  love  which  should 
be  widely  extended,  and  diffused  on  every  side. 
"  Covetous."  From  covetousness  springs  boast- 
fulness,  from  boastfulness  pride,  from  pride  blas- 
phemy, from  blasphemy  defiance  and  disobe- 
dience. For  he  who  exalts  himself  against  men, 
will  easily  do  it  against  God.  Thus  sins  are  pro- 
duced. Often  they  ascend  from  below.  He  that  is 
pious  towards  men/is  still  more  pious  towards  God. 
He  who  is  meek  to  his  fellow-servants,  is  more 
meek  to  his  Master.  He  that  despises  his  fellow- 
servants,  will  end  with  despising  God  Himself. 
Moral.  Let  us  not  then  despise  one  another, 
for  that  is  an  evil  training  which  teaches  us  to 
despise  God.  And  indeed  to  despise  one  an- 
other is  in  effect  to  despise  God,  Who  com- 
manded us  to  show  all  regard  to  one  another. 
And  this  .may  be  otherwise  manifested  by  an 
example.  Cain  despised  his  brother,  and  so, 
immediately  after,  he  despised  God.  How  de- 
spised Him  ?  Mark  his  insolent  answer  to  God  ; 
"Am  I  my  brother's  keeper?"  (Gen.  iv.  9.) 
Again,  Esau  despised  his  brother,  and  he  too 
despised  God.  Wherefore  God  said,  "Jacob 
have  I  loved,  but  Esau  have  I  hated."  (Rom. 
ix.  13  ;  Mai.  i.  2,  3.)  Hence  Paul  says,  "  Lest 
there  be  any  fornicator  or  profane  person  as 
Esau."  (Heb.  xii.  16.)  The  brethren  of  Joseph 
despised  him,  and  they  also  despised  God. 
The  Israelites  despised  Moses,  and  they  also 
despised  God.  So  too  the  sons  of  Eli  despised 
the  people,  and  they  too  despised  God.  Would 
you  see  it  also  from  the  contrary?  Abraham, 
who  was  tender  of  his  brother's  son,  was  obedient 
to  God,  as  is  manifest  in  his  conduct  with  re- 

1  aTTavra  Xotirov,  qu.  ?     awav  rb  Aourrfy,  "all   the  rest   of  the 
body."  » 


spect  to  his  son  Isaac,  and  in  all  his  other  vir- 
tues. Again,  Abel  was  meek  to  his  brother,  and 
he  also  was  pious  towards  God.  Let  us  not 
therefore  despise  one  another,  lest  we  learn  also 
to  despise  God.  Let  us  honor  one  another,  that 
we  may  learn  also  to  honor  God.  He  that  is 
insolent  with  respect  to  men,  will  also  be  inso- 
lent with  respect  to  God.  But  when  covetous- 
ness and  selfishness  and  insolence  meet  together, 
what  is  wanting  to  complete  destruction  ?  Every- 
thing is  corrupted,  and  a  foul  flood  of  sins  bursts 
in.  "  Unthankful,"  he  says.  For  how  can  the 
covetous  man  be  thankful?  To  whom  will  he 
feel  gratitude?  To  no  one.  He  considers  all 
men  his  enemies,  and  desires  the  goods  of  all. 
Though  you  spend  your  whole  substance  upon 
him,  he  will  feel  no  gratitude.  He  is  angry  that 
you  have  not  more,  that  you  might  bestow  it 
upon  him.  And  if  you  made  him  master  of  the 
whole  world,  he  would  still  be  unthankful,  and 
think  that  he  had  received  nothing.  This  desire 
is  insatiable.  It  is  the  craving  of  disease ;  and 
such  is  the  nature  of  the  cravings  of  disease. 

He  who  has  a  fever  can  never  be  satisfied, 
but  with  constant  desire  of  drinking,  is  never 
filled,  but  suffers  a  continual  thirst ;  so  he  who 
is  mad  after  wealth  never  knows  the  fulfillment 
of  his  desire ;  whatever  is  bestowed  upon  him, 
he  is  still  unsatisfied,  and  will  therefore  never  be 
thankful.  For  he  will  feel  no  gratitude  to  him, 
who  does  not  give  him  as  much  as  he  wishes, 
and  this  no  one  can  ever  do.  And  as  there  is 
no  limit  to  his  wishes,  he  will  feel  no  gratitude. 
Thus  no  one  is  so  unthankful  as  the  covetous,  so 
insensible  as  the  lover  of  money.  He  is  the 
enemy  of  all  the  world.  He  is  indignant  that 
there  are  men.  He  would  have  all  one  vast 
desert,  that  he  might  have  the  property  of  all. 
And  many  wild  imaginations  does  he  form.  "  O 
that  there  were  an  earthquake,"  he  says,  "in  the 
city,  that  all  the  rest  being  swallowed  up,  I 
might  be  left  alone,  to  have,  if  possible,  the 
possessions  of  all !  .O  that  a  pestilence  would 
come  and  destroy  everything  but  gold  !  O  that 
there  might  be  a  submersion,  or  an  eruption  of 
the  sea  !  "  Such  are  his  imaginations.  He  prays 
for  nothing  good,  but  for  earthquakes,  and 
thunderbolts,  for  wars,'  and  plagues,  and  the 
like.  Well,  tell  me  now,  thou  wretched  man, 
more  servile  than  any  slave,  if  all  things  were 
gold,  wouldest  thou  not  be  destroyed  by  thy 
gold,2  and  perish  with  hunger?  If  the  world 
were  swallowed  up  by  an  earthquake,  thou  also 
wouldest  perish  by  thy  fatal  desire.  For  if  there 
were  no  other  men  than  thyself,  the  necessaries 
of  life  would  fail  thee.  For  suppose  that  the 
other  inhabitants  of  the  earth  were  destroyed  at 
once,  and  that  their  gold  and  silver  came  of  its 


*  Al.  "  be  parted  from  thy  gold." 


502 


WORKS   OF   ST.  CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  VII. 


own  accord  to  thee.  (For  such  men  fancy  to 
themselves  absurdities,  and  impossibilities.)  But 
if  their  gold  and  silver,  their  vests  of  silk  and 
cloth  of  gold,  came  into  thy  hands,  what  would 
it  profit  thee?  Death  would  only  the  more  cer- 
tainly overtake  thee,  when  there  were  none  to 
prepare  bread  or  till  the  earth  for  thee ;  wild 
beasts  would  prowl  around,  and  the  devil  agitate 
thy  soul  with  fear.  Many  devils  indeed  now 
possess  it,  but  then  they  would  lead  thee  to 
desperation,  and  plunge  thee  at  once  into  de- 
struction: But  you  say,  "  I  would  wish  there 
should  be  tilling  of  the  land  and  men  to  prepare 
food."  Then  they  would  consume  somewhat. 
"  But  I  would  not  have  them  consume  anything." 
So  insatiable  is  this  desire  !  For  what  can  be 
more  ridiculous  than  this  ?  Seest  thou  the  impos- 
sibility of  the  thing?  He  wishes  to  have  many 
to  minister  to  him,  yet  he  grudges  them  their 
share  of  food,  because  it  diminishes  his  sub- 
stance !  What  then  ?  Wouldest  thou  then  have 
men  of  stone?  This  is  all  a  mockery;  and 
waves,  and  tempest,  and  huge  billows,  and  vio- 
lent agitation,  and  storm,  overwhelm  the  soul. 
It  is  ever  hungry,  ever  thirsty.'  Shall  we  not  pity 
and  mourn  for  him  ?  Of  bodily  diseases  this  is 
thought  a  most  painful  one,  and  it  is  called  by 
physicians  bulimy,1  when  a  man  being  filled, 
is  yet  always  hungry.  And  is  not  the  same  dis- 
order in  the  soul  more  lamentable  ?  For  avarice 
is  the  morbid  hunger  of  the  soul,  which  is  always 
filling,  never  satisfied,  but  still  craving.  If  it 
were  necessary  to  drink  hellebore,  or  submit 
to  anything  a  thousand  times  worse,  would  it  not 
be  worth  our  while  to  undertake  it  readily,  that 
we  might  be  delivered  from  this  passion  ?  There 
is  no  abundance  of  riches  that  can  fill  the  belly  of 
greediness.  And  shall  we  not  be  ashamed,  that 
men  can  be  thus  transported  with  the  love  of 
money,  whilst  we  show  not  any  proportion  of 
such  earnestness  in  love  to  God,  and  honor 
Him  not  as  bullion  is  honored?  For  money 
men  will  undergo  watchings,  and  journey ings 
and  continual  perils,  and  hatred,  and  hostility, 
and,  in  short,  everything.  But  we  do  not  ven- 
ture to  utter  a  mere  word  for  God,  nor  incur 
an  enmity,  but  if  we  are  required  to  assist  any 
of  those  who  are  persecuted,  we  abandon  the 
injured  person,  withdrawing  ourselves  from  the 
hatred  of  the  powerful,  and  the  danger  it  in- 
volves. And  though  God  has  given  us  power 
that  we  might  succor  him,  yet  we  suffer  him 
to  perish,  from  our  unwillingness  to  incur  men's 
hatred  and  displeasure.  And  this  many  pro- 
fess to  justify,  saying,  "  Be  loved  for  nothing, 
but  be  not  hated  for  nothing."  But  is  this  to  be 
hated  for  nothing  ?  Or  what  is  better  than  such 
hatred  ?  For  to  be  hated  on  account  of  God  is 
better  than  to  be  loved  on  His  account :   for 


1  ,*ovMt*.ia,  from  0ou«  and  A.i'moc. 


when  we  are  loved  for  God's  sake,  we  are 
debtors  for  the  honor,  but  when  we  are  hated 
for  His  sake,  He  is  our  debtor  to  reward  us. 
The  lovers  of  wealth  know  no  limit  to  their 
love,  be  it  never  so  great ;  but  we,  if  we  have 
done  ever  so  little,  think  that  we  have  fulfilled 
everything.  We  love  not  God  as  much,  no,  not 
by  many  times  over  so  much,  as  they  love  gold. 
Their  inordinate  rage  for  gold  is  a  heavy  accu- 
sation against  them.  It  is  our  condemnation 
that  we  are  not  so  beside  ourselves  for  God; 
that  we  do  not  bestow  upon  the  Lord  of  all  as 
much  love  as  they  bestow  upon  mere  earth,  for 
gold  from  the  mine  is  no  better. 

Let  us  then  behold  their  madness,  and  be 
ashamed  of  ourselves.  For  what  though  we  are 
not  inflamed  with  the  love  of  gold,  while  we 
are  not  earnest  in  our  prayers  to  God?  For 
in  their  case  men  despise  wife,  children,  sub- 
stance, and  their  own  safety,  and  that  when  they 
are  not  certain  that  they  shall  increase  their 
substance.  For  often,  in  the  very  midst  of  their 
hopes,  they  lose  at  once  their  life  and  their  labor. 
But  we,  though  we  know  that,  if  we  love  Him  as 
we  ought  to  love  Him,  we  shall  obtain  our  desire, 
yet  love  Him  not,  but  are  altogether  cold  in 
our  love  both  to  our  neighbor  and  to  God; 
cold  in  our  love  to  God,  because  cold  in  our 
love  to  our  neighbor.  For  it  is  not,  indeed  it  is 
not  possible  that  a  man,  who  is  a  stranger  to  the 
feeling  of  love,  should  have  any  generosity  or 
manly  spirit,  since  the  foundation  of  all  that 
is  good  is  no  other  than  love.  "On  this,"  it 
is  said,  "  hang  all  the  law  and  the  prophets." 
(Matt.  xxii.  40.)  For  as  fire  set  to  a  forest  is 
wont  to  clear  away  everything,  so  the  fire  of  love, 
wherever  it  is  received,  consumes  and  makes 
way  through  everything  that  is  hurtful  to  the 
divine  harvest,  and  renders  the  soil  pure  and  fit 
for  the  reception  of  the  seed.  Where  there 
is  love,  all  evils  are  removed.  There  is  no  love 
of  money,  the  root  of  evil,  there  is  no  self-love 2 : 
there  is  no  boasting ;  for  why  should  one  boast 
over  his  friend?  Nothing  makes  a  man  so 
humble  as  love.  We  perform  the  offices  of 
servants  to  our  friends,  and  are  not  ashamed ; 
we  are  even  thankful  for  the  opportunity  of 
serving  them.  We  spare  not  our  property,  and 
often  not  our  persons  ;  for  dangers  too  are 
encountered  at  times  for  him  that  is  loved. 
No  envy,  no  calumny  is  there,  where  there  is 
genuine  love.  We  not  only  do  not  slander  our 
friends,  but  we  stop  the  mouth  of  slanderers. 
All  is  gentleness  and  mildness.  Not  a  trace 
of  strife  and  contention  appears.  Everything 
breathes  peace.  For  "  Love,"  it  is  said,  "  is 
this  fulfilling  of  the  law."  (Rom.  xiii.  10.) 
There  is  nothing  offensive  with  it.      How  so? 

*  Gr.  "  love  of  money,*1  an  evident  mistake,  as   Downes  h..s 
noted.  * 


Homily  VII.] 


HOMILIES   ON   TIMOTHY. 


503 


Because  where  love  exists,  all  the  sins  of  cov- 
etousness,  rapine,  envy,  slander,  arrogance,  per- 
jury, and  falsehood  are  done  away.  For  men 
perjure  themselves,  in  order  to  rob,  but  no  one 
would  rob  him  whom  he  loved,  but  would  rather 
give  him  his  own  possessions.  For  we  are  more 
obliged  than  if  we  received  from  him.  Ye  know 
this,  all  you  that  have  friends,  friends,  I  mean, 
in  reality,  not  in  name  only,  but  whoever  loves 
as  men  ought  to  love,  whoever  is  really  linked 
to  another.  And  let  those  who  are  ignorant  of 
it  learn  from  those  who  know. 

I  will  now  cite  you  from  the  Scriptures  a  won- 
derful instance  of  friendship.  Jonathan,  the  son 
of  Saul,  loved  David,  and  his  soul  was  so  knit  to 
him,  that  David  in  mourning  over  him  says, 
"Thy  love  to  me  was  wonderful,  passing  the 
love  of  women.  Thou  wast  wounded  unto 
death."  (2  Sam.  i.  25,  26.)  What  then?  did 
he  envy  David?  Not  at  all,  though  he  had 
great  reason.  How?  Because,  by  the  events 
he  perceived  that  the  kingdom  would  pass  from 
himself  to  him,  yet  he  felt  nothing  of  the  kind. 
He  did  not  say,  "This  is  he  that  is  depriving 
me  of  my  paternal  kingdom,"  but  he  favored 
his  obtaining  the  sovereignty ;  and  he  spared 
not  his  father  for  the  sake  of  his  friend.  Yet  let 
not  any  one  think  him  a  parricide,  for  he  did 
not  injure  his  father,  but  restrained  his  unjust 
attempts.  He  rather  spared  than  injured  him. 
He  did  not  permit  him  to  proceed  to  an  unjust 
murder.  He  was  many  times  willing  even  to 
die  for  his  friend,  and  far  from  accusing  him,  he 
restrained  even  his  father's  accusation.  Instead 
of  envying,  he  joined  in  obtaining  the  kingdom 
for  him.  Why  do  I  speak  of  wealth  ?  He  even 
sacrificed  his  own  life  for  him.  For  the  sake  of 
his  friend,  he  did  not  even  stand  in  awe  of  his 
father,  since  his  father  entertained  unjust  de- 
signs, but  his  conscience  was  free  from  all  such. 
Thus  justice  was  conjoined  with  friendship. 

Such  then  was  Jonathan.  Let  us  now  con- 
sider David.  He  had  no  opportunity  of  return- 
ing the  recompense,  for  his  benefactor  was  taken 
away  before  the  reign  of  David,  and  slain  before 
he  whom  he  had  served  came  to  his  kingdom. 
What  then  ?  As  far  as  it  was  allowed  him  and 
left  in  his  power,  let  us  see  how  that  righteous 
man  manifested  his  friendship.  "  Very  pleas- 
ant," he  says,  "  hast  thou  been  to  me,  Jonathan  ; 
thou  wast  wounded  unto  death."  (2  Sam.  i. 
25,  Gr.)  Is  this  all?  This  indeed  was  no  slight 
tribute,  but  he  also  frequently  rescued  from 
danger  his  son  and  his  grandson,  in  remem- 
brance of  the  kindness  of  the  father,  and  he 
continued  to  support  and  protect  his  children, 
as  he  would  have  done  those  of  his  own  son. 
Such  friendship  I  would  wish  all  to  entertain 
both  towards  the  living  and  the  dead. 

Let  women  listen  to  this  (for  it  is  on  their 


account  especially  that  I  refer  to  the  departed) 
who  enter  into  a  second  marriage,  and  defile  the 
bed  of  their  deceased  husband,  though  they  have 
loved  him.1  Not  that  I  forbid  a  second  mar- 
riage, or  pronounce  it  a  proof  of  wantonness,  for 
Paul  does  not  allow  me,  stopping  my  mouth  by 
saying  to  women,  "If  she  marry  she  hath  not 
sinned."  (1  Cor.  vii.  28  and  40.)  Yet  let  us 
attend  to  what  follows,  "  But  she  is  happier  if 
she  so  abide."  This  state  is  much  better  than 
the  other.  Wherefore  ?  for  many  reasons.  For 
if  it  is  better  not  to  marry  at  all  than  to  marry, 
much  more  in  this  case.  "  But  some,  you  say, 
could  not  endure  widowhood,  and  have  fallen 
into  many  misfortunes."  Yes;  because  they 
know  not  what  widowhood  is.  For  it  is  not 
widowhood  to  be  exempt  from  a  second  mar- 
riage, as  neither  is  it  virginity  to  be  altogether 
unmarried.  For  as  "  that  which  is  comely,"  and 
"  that  ye  may  attend  upon  the  Lord  without  dis- 
traction," is  the  mark  of  the  one  state,  so  it  is 
the  mark  of  the  other  to  be  desolate,  to  "  con- 
tinue in  supplications  and  prayers,"  to  renounce 
luxury  and  pleasure.  For  "she  that  liveth  in 
pleasure  is  dead  whilst  she  liveth."  (1  Tim.  v. 
6.)  If  remaining  a  widow,  thou  wouldest  have 
the  same  pomp,  the  same  show,  the  same  attire, 
as  thou  hadst  while  thy  husband  was  living,  it 
were  better  for  thee  to  marry.  For  it  is  not  the 
union  that  is  objectionable,  but  the  multitude  of 
cares  that  attend  it.  But  that  which  is  not 
wrong,  thou  dost  not :  but  that  which  is  not  in- 
different, which  is  liable  to  blame,  in  that  thou 
involvest  thyself.  On  this  account  "  some  have 
turned  aside  after  Satan,"  because  they  have  not 
been  able  to  live  properly  as  widows. 

Wouldest  thou  know  what  a  widow  is,  and 
what  a  widow's  dignity,  hear  Paul's  account  of 
it.  "  If  she  have  brought  up  children,  if  she 
have  lodged  strangers,  if  she  have  washed  the 
Saints'  feet,  if  she  have  relieved  the  afflicted,  if 
she  have  diligently  followed  every  good  work." 
(1  Tim.  v.  10.)  But  when  after  the  death  of 
thy  husband,  thou  art  arrayed  in  the  same  pomp 
of  wealth,  no  wonder  if  thou  canst  not  support 
widowhood.  Transfer  this  wealth,  therefore,  to 
heaven,  and  thou  wilt  find  the  burden  of  widow- 
hood tolerable.  But,  thou  sayest,  what  if  I  have 
children  to  succeed  to  their  father's  inheritance  ? 
Instruct  them  also  to  despise  riches.  Transfer 
thy  own  possessions,  reserving  for  them  just  a 
sufficiency.  Teach  them  too  to  be  superior  to 
riches.  But  what  if  besides  my  silver  and  gold, 
I  am  surrounded  by  a  crowd  of  slaves,  oppressed 
by  a  multitude  of  affairs,  how  shall  I  be  equal 
to  the  care  of  all  these  things,  when  deprived  of 
the  support  of  my  husband?  This  is  but  an 
excuse,  a  pretense,  as  appears  from  many  causes. 

1  Sav.  mar.  "  having  ceased  to  love  him." 


504 


WORKS   OF    ST.    CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  VIII. 


For  if  thou  dost  not  deserve  wealth,  nor  seek  to 
increase  thy  present  possessions,  thy  burden  will 
be  light.  To  get  riches  is  much  more  laborious 
than  to  take  care  of  them.  If  therefore  thou 
cuttest  off  this  one  thing,  accumulating,  and 
suppliest  the  needy  out  of  thy  substance,  God 
will  hold  over  thee  His  protecting  hand.  And 
if  thou  sayest  this  from  a  real  desire  to  preserve 
the  inheritance  of  thy  fatherless  children,  and 
art  not,  under  this  pretense,  possessed  with 
covetousness ;  He  who  searches  the  heart  knows 
how  to  secure  their  riches,  even  He  who  com- 
manded thee  to  bring  up  children. 

For  it  is  not  possible,  indeed  it  is  not,  that  a 
house  established  by  almsgiving  should  suffer 
any  calamity.  If  it  should  be  unfortunate  for 
a  time,  in  the  end  it  will  prosper.  This  will  be 
more  than  spear  and  shield  to  all  the  house- 
hold. Hear  what  the  devil  says  concerning  Job. 
"  Hast  not  thou  made  an  hedge  about  him  and 
about  his  house,  and  about  all  that  he  hath  on 
every  side?"  (Job  i.  10.)  Wherefore?  Hear 
Job  himself  saying,  "  I  was  eyes  to  the  blind, 
and  feet  was  I  to  the  lame.  I  was  a  father  to 
the  orphans."  (Job  xxix.  15.)  As  he  who  does 
not  turn  aside  from  the  calamities  of  others,  will 
not  suffer  even  in  his  own  misfortunes,  because 
he  has  learnt  to  sympathize  ;  so  he  who  will  not 
bear  the  griefs  of  sympathy,  will  learn  all  sorrow 
in  his  own  person.1    And,  as  in  the  case  of  a 


bodily  disease,  if,  when  the  foot  is  mortified, 
the  hand  does  not  sympathize  by  cleansing  the 
wound,  washing  away  the  discharge,  and  apply- 
ing a  plaster,  it  will  suffer  the  like  disease  of  its 
own ;  so  she  who  will  not  minister  to  another 
when  she  is  not  herself  afflicted,  will  have  to 
bear  sufferings  of  her  own.  For  the  evil  spread- 
ing from  the  other  part  will  reach  to  this  also, 
and  the  question  will  not  be  of  ministering  to 
the  other,  but  of  its  own  cure  and  relief.  So  it 
is  here  also.  He  that  will  not  relieve  others, 
will  be  a  sufferer  himself.  "  Thou  hast  hedged 
him  in,"  saith  Satan,  "  within  and  without,"  and 
I  dare  not  attack  him  !  But  he  suffered  afflic- 
tions, you  say.  True.  But  those  afflictions  were 
the  occasion  of  great  good.  His  substance  was 
doubled,  his  reward  increased,  his  righteousness 
enlarged,  his  crown  was  splendid,  his  prize  glori- 
ous. Both  his  spiritual  and  temporal  blessings 
were  augmented.  He  lost  his  children,  but  he 
received,  not  these  restored,  but  others  in  their 
room,  and  those  too  he  had  safe  for  the  Resur- 
rection. Had  they  been  restored,  the  number 
would  have  been  diminished,  but  now  having 
given  others  in  their  stead,  He  will  present  them 
also  at  the  Resurrection.  All  these  things  hap- 
pened to  him,  because  of  his  openhandedness 
in  almsgiving.  Let  us  then  do  likewise,  that  we 
may  obtain  the  same  rewards  by  the  grace  and 
lovingkindness  of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ.   Amen. 


HOMILY    VIII. 

2  Timothy  iii.  1-4. 


"This  know  also,  that  in  the  last  days  perilous  times 
shall  come.  For  men  shall  be  lovers  of  their  own 
selves,  covetous,  boasters,  proud,  blasphemers,  dis- 
obedient to  parents,  unthankful,  unholy,  without 
natural  affection,  truce-breakers,  false  accusers,  in- 
continent, fierce,  despisers  of  those  that  are  good, 
Traitors,  heady,  high-minded,  lovers  of  pleasures 
more  than  lovers  of  God." 


If  any  now  takes  offense  at  the  existence  of 
heretics,  let  him  remember  that  it  was  so  from 
the  beginning,  the  devil  always  setting  up  error 
by  the  side  of  truth.  God  from  the  beginning 
promised  good,  the  devil  came  too  with  a  prom- 
ise. God  planted  Paradise,  the  devil  deceived, 
saying,  "  Ye  shall  be  as  gods."  (Gen.  iii.  5.) 
For  as  he  could  show  nothing  in  actions,  he 
made  the  more  promises  in  words.  Such  is  the 
character  of  deceivers.  After  this  were  Cain 
and  Abel,  then  the  sons  of  Seth  and  the  daugh- 

1  "  The  tender  for  another's  pain, 

Th  unfeeling  for  his  own."  — Gray. 


ters  of  men ;  afterwards  Ham  and  Japhet,  Abra- 
ham and  Pharaoh,  Jacob  and  Esau ;  and  so  it  is 
even  to  the  end,  Moses  and  the  magicians,  the 
Prophets  and  the  false  prophets,  the  Apostles 
and  the  false  apostles,  Christ  and  Antichrist. 
Thus  it  was  then,  both  before  and  at  that  time. 
Then  there  was  Theudas,  then  Simon,  then  were 
the  Apostles,  then  too  this  party  of  Hermogenes 
and  Philetus.  In  short,  there  was  no  time  when 
falsehood  was  not  set  up  in  opposition  to  truth. 
Let  us  not  therefore  be  distressed.  That  it 
would  be  so,  was  foretold  from  the  beginning. 
Therefore  he  says,  "  Know  that  in  the  last  days 
perilous  times  shall  come.  For  men  shall  be 
lovers  of  their  own  selves,  covetous,  boasters, 
proud,  blasphemers,  disobedient  to  parents,  un- 
thankful, unholy,  without  natural  affection."  The 
unthankful  then  is  unholy,  and  this  is  natural, 
for  what  will  he  be  to  others,  who  is  not  grateful 
to  his  benefactor?  The  unthankful  man  is  a 
truce-breaker,  he  is  without  natural  affection. 


Homily  VIII.] 


HOMILIES   ON   TIMOTHY. 


505 


"  False  accusers,"  Jhat  is,  slanderers.  For 
those  who  are  conscious  that  they  have  no  good 
in  themselves,  whilst  they  commit  many  sins 
and  offenses,  find  consolation  in  defaming  the 
characters  of  others. 

"  Incontinent,"  with  respect  both  to  their 
tongue  and  their  appetite,  and  everything  else. 

"  Fierce,"  hence  their  inhumanity  and  cruelty, 
when  any  one  is  covetous,  selfish,  ungrateful, 
licentious. 

"  Despisers  of  those  that  are  good,  traitors, 
heady."  "Traitors,"  betrayers  of  friendship; 
"  heady,"  having  no  steadiness ;  "  high-minded," 
filled  with  arrogance.  "  Lovers  of  pleasures 
more  than  lovers  of  God." 

Ver.  5.  "  Having  a  form  of  godliness,  but  de- 
nying the  power  thereof." 

In  the  Epistle  to  the  Romans,  he  says  some- 
what on  this  wise,  "  Having  the  form  of  knowl- 
edge and  of  the  truth  in  the  law"  (Rom.  ii.  20), 
where  he  speaks  in  commendation  of  it :  but 
here  he  speaks  of  this  sin  as  an  evil  beyond  all 
other  defects.  And  why  is  this  ?  Because  he 
does  not  use  the  words  in  the  same  signification. 
For  an  image  is  often  taken  to  signify  a  likeness ; 
but  sometimes  a  thing  without  life,  and  worth- 
less. Thus  he  says  himself  in  his  Epistle  to  the 
Corinthians,  "A  man  ought  not  to  cover  his 
head,  forasmuch  as  he  is  the  image  and  glory  of 
God."  (1  Cor.  xi.  7.)  But  the  Prophet  says, 
"  Man  walketh  in  an  image."  (Ps.  xxxix.  9,  Gr.) 
And  the  Scripture  sometimes  takes  a  lion  to 
represent  royalty,  as,  "  He  couched  as  a  lion, 
and  as  a  lion's  whelp,  who  shall  raise  him  up  ?  " 
(Gen.  xlix.  9,  Gr.)  And  sometimes  to  signify 
rapacity,  as,  "  a  ravening  and  a  roaring  lion." 
(Ps.  xxii.  13.)  And  we  ourselves  do  the  same. 
For  as  things  are  compounded  and  varied  in 
themselves,  they  are  fitly  adduced  for  various 
images  and  examples.  As  when  we  would  ex- 
press our  admiration  of  a  beautiful  woman,  we 
say,  she  is  like  a  picture  ;  and  when  we  admire 
a  painting,  we  say  that  it  speaks,  that  it  breathes. 
But  we  do  not  mean  to  express  the  same  thing, 
but  in  one  case  to  mark  likeness,  in  the  other 
beauty.  So  here  with  respect  to  form,  in  the 
one  passage,  it  means  a  model,  or  representa- 
tion, a  doctrine,  or  pattern  of  godliness ;  in  the 
other,  something  that  is  lifeless,  a  mere  appear- 
ance, show,  and  hypocrisy.  Faith  therefore, 
without  works,  is  fitly  called  a  mere  form  with- 
out the  power.  For  as  a  fair  and  florid  body, 
when  it  has  no  strength,  is  like  a  painted  figure, 
so  is  a  right  faith  apart  from  works.  For  let 
us  suppose  any  one  to  be  "  covetous,  a  traitor, 
heady,"  and  yet  to  believe  aright;  of  what 
advantage  is  it,  if  he  wants  all  the  qualities 
becoming  a  Christian,  if  he  does  not  the  works 
that  characterize  godliness,  but  outdoes  the 
Greeks  in  impiety,  when  he  is  a  mischief  to  those 


with  whom  he  associates,  causes  God  to  be 
blasphemed,  and  the  doctrine  to  be  slandered 
by  his  evil  deeds? 

"  From  such  turn  away,"  he  says.  But  how 
is  this,  if  men  are  to  be  so  "in  the  latter  times  "  ? 
There  were  probably  then  such,  in  some  degree 
at  least,  though  not  to  the  same  excess.  But, 
in  truth,  through  him  he  warns  all  to  turn  away 
from  such  characters. 

Ver.  6.  "  For  of  this  sort  are  they  which  creep 
into  houses,  and  lead  captive  silly  women  laden 
with  sins,  led  away  with  divers  lusts." 

Ver.  7.  "  Ever  learning,  and  never  able  to 
come  to  the  knowledge  of  the  truth." 

Do  you  see  them  employing  the  artifice  of 
that  old  deceiver,  the  weapons  which  the  devil 
used  against  Adam?  "Entering  into  houses," 
he  says.  Observe  how  he  shows  their  impu- 
dence by  this  expression,1  their  dishonorable 
ways,  their  deceit  fulness.  "Leading  captive 
silly  women,"  so  that  he  who  is  easy  to  be 
deceived  is  a  "  silly  woman,"  and  nothing  like 
a  man :  for  to  be  deceived  is  the  part  of  silly 
women.  "Laden  with  sins."  See  whence  arises 
their  persuasion,  from  their  sins,  from  their 
being  conscious  to  themselves  of  nothing  good  ! 
And  with  great  propriety  has  he  said  "  laden."  2 
For  this  expression  marks  the  multitude  of  their 
sins,  and  their  state  of  disorder  and  confusion ; 
"led  away  with  divers  lusts."  He  does  not 
accuse  nature,  for  it  is  not  women  simply,  but 
such  women  as  these,  that  he  blames.  And 
why  "  divers  lusts  "  ?  by  that  are  implied  their 
various  faults,  their  luxury,  their  disorderly  con- 
duct, their  wantonness.  "  Divers  lusts,"  he  says, 
that  is,  of  glory,  of  wealth,  of  pleasure,  of  self- 
will,  of  honor :  and  perchance  other  vile  desires 
are  implied. 

"  Ever  learning,  and  never  able  to  come  to 
the  knowledge  of  the  truth."  He  does  not  say 
thus  to  excuse,  but  to  threaten  them  severely; 
for  their  understanding  was  callous,  because 
they  had  weighed  themselves  down  with  lusts 
and  sins. 

Ver.  8.  "  Now  as  Jannes  and  Jambres  with- 
stood Moses,  so  do  these  also  resist  the  truth." 

Who  are  these?3  The  magicians  in  the  time 
of  Moses.  But  how  is  it  their  names  are  nowhere 
else  introduced?  Either  they  were  handed 
down  by  tradition,  or  it  is  probable  that  Paul 
knew  them  by  inspiration. 

"  Men  of  corrupt  minds,"  he  says,  "  reprobate 
concerning  the  faith." 

Ver.  9.  "  But  they  shall  proceed  no  further ; 
for  their  folly  shall  be  manifested  unto  all  men, 
as  theirs  also  was." 

"  They  shall  proceed  no  further  "  ;  how  then 

1  Gr.  "  by  .saying  entering,  the  word  implies  entering  covertly*' 

»  Lit.  "  heaped.* 

*  B.  has  this  punctuation. 


5o6 


WORKS   OF   ST.    CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  VIII. 


does  he  say  elsewhere,  "  They  will  increase  unto 
more  ungodliness"?  (2  Tim.  ii.  16.)  He  there 
means,  that  beginning  to  innovate  and  to  de- 
ceive, they  will  not  pause  in  their  error,  but  will 
always  invent  new  deceits  and  corrupt  doctrines, 
for  error  is  never  stationary.  But  here  .he  says, 
that  they  shall  not  be  able  to  deceive,  nor  carry 
men  away  with  them,  for  however  at  first  they 
may  seem  to  impose  upon  them,  they  will  soon 
and  easily  be  detected.  For  that  he  is  speaking 
to  this  effect  appears  from  what  follows.  "  For 
their  folly  shall  be  manifest  unto  all."  Whence  ? 
Every  way —  "  as  theirs  also  was."  For  if  errors 
flourish  at  first,  they  do  not  continue  to  the  end, 
for  so  it  is  with  things  that  are  not  fair  by  nature, 
but  fair  in  appearance  ;  they  flourish  for  a  time, 
and  then  are  detected,  and  come  to  nought. 
But  not  such  are  our  doctrines,  and  of  these 
thou  art  a  witness,  for  in  our  doctrines  there 
is  no  deceit,  for  who  would  choose  to  die  for 
a  deceit? 

Ver.  10.  "But  thou  hast  fully  known1  my 
doctrine."  Wherefore  be  strong;  for  thou 
wert  not  merely  present,  but  didst  follow  closely. 
Here  he  seems  to  imply  that  the  period  had 
been  long,  in  that  he  says,  "Thou  hast  followed 
up  my  doctrine  "  ;  this  refers  to  his  discourse. 
"  Manner  of  life  "  ;  this  to  his  conduct.  "  Pur- 
pose " ;  this  to  his  zeal,  and  the  firmness  of  his 
soul.  I  did  not  say  these  things,  he  says,  and 
not  do  them ;  nor  was  I  a  philosopher  in  words 
only.  "Faith,  longsuffering."  He  means,  how 
none  of  these  things  troubled  me.  "Charity," 
which  those  men  had  not;  "patience,"  nor  yet 
this.  Towards  the  heretics,  he  means,  I  show 
much  longsuffering;  "patience,"  that  under 
persecution. 

Ver.  11.  "  Persecutions,  afflictions." 

There  are  two  things  that  disquiet  a  teacher, 
the  number  of  heretics,  and  men's  wanting  for- 
titude to  endure  sufferings.  And  yet  he  has2 
said  much  about  these,  that  such  always  have 
been,  and  always  will  be,  and  no  age  will  be 
free  from  them,  and  that  they  will  not  be  able 
to  injure  us,  and  that  in  the  world  there  are 
vessels  of  gold  and  of  silver.  You  see  how  he 
proceeds  to  discourse  about  his  afflictions, 
"which  came  upon  me  at  Antioch,  at  Iconium, 
at  Lystra." 

Why  has  he  selected  these  instances  out  of 
many  ?  Because  the  rest  was  known  to  Timothy, 
and  these  perhaps  were  new  events,  and  he  does 
not  mention  the  former  ones,  for  he  is  not 
enumerating  them  particularly,  for  he  is  not  ac- 
tuated by  ambition  or  vainglory,  but  he  recounts 
them  for  the  consolation  of  his  disciple,  not  from 
ostentation.  And  here  he  speaks  of  Antioch  in 
Pisidia,  and    Lystra,    whence   Timothy  himself 

1  Or.  "  followed  up." 
*  al.  "  I  have." 


was.  "What  persecutions  I  endured."  There 
was  twofold  matter  of  consolation,  that  I  dis- 
played a  generous  zeal,  and  that  I  was  not  for- 
saken. It  cannot  be  said,  that  God  abandoned 
me,  but  He  rendered  my  crown  more  radiant. 

"What  persecutions  I  endured:  but  out  of 
them  all  the  Lord  delivered  me." 

Ver.  12.  "Yea,  and  all  those  that  will  live 
godly  in  Christ  Jesus  shall  suffer  persecution." 

But  why,  he  says,  should  I  speak  only  of 
myself?  Each  one  that  will  live  godly  will  be 
persecuted.  Here  he  calls  afflictions  and  sor- 
rows, "  persecutions,"  for  it  is  not  possible  that 
a  man  pursuing  the  course  of  virtue  should  not 
be  exposed  to  grief,  tribulation,  and  temptations. 
For  how  can  he  escape  it  who  is  treading  in 
the  strait  and  narrow  way,  and  who  has  heard, 
that  "in  the  world  ye  shall  have  tribulation"? 
(John  xvi.  33.)  If  Job  in  his  time  said,  "The 
life  of  man  upon  earth  is  a  state  of  trial "  (Job 
vii.  1,  Gr.)  ;  how  much  more  was  it  so  in  those 
days? 

Ver.  13.  "But  evil  men  and  seducers  shall 
wax  worse  and  worse,  deceiving,  and  being 
deceived." 

Let  none  of  these  things,  he  says,  disturb  thee, 
if  they  are  in  prosperity,  and  thou  in  trials. 
Such  is  the  nature  of  the  case.  From  my  own 
instance  thou  mayest  learn  that  it  is  impossible 
for  man,  in  his  warfare  with  the  wicked,  not  to 
be  exposed  to  tribulation.  One  cannot  be  in 
combat  and  live  luxuriously,  one  cannot  be 
wrestling  and  feasting.  Let  none  therefore  of 
those  who  are  contending  seek  for  ease  or  joyous 
living.  Again,  the  present  state  is  contest,  war- 
fare, tribulation,  straits,  and  trials,  and  the  very 
scene  of  conflicts.  The  season  for  rest  is  not 
now,  this  is  the  time  for  toil  and  labor.  No 
one  who  has  just  stripped  and  anointed  himself 
thinks  of  ease.  If  thou  thinkest  of  ease,  why 
didst  thou  strip,  or  prepare  to  fight  ?  "  But  do 
I  not  maintain  the  fight?"  you  say.  What, 
when  thou  dost  not  conquer  thy  desires,  nor 
resist  the  evil  bias  of  nature  ? 

Ver.  14.  "But  continue  thou  in  the  things 
that  thou  hast  learned  and  hast  been  assured  of, 
knowing  of  whom  thou  hast  learned  them  ;  And 
that  from  a  child  thou  hast  known  the  holy 
Scriptures,  which  are  able  to  make  thee  wise 
unto  salvation  through  the  faith  which  is  in  Christ 
Jesus." 

What  is  this  ?  As  the  prophet  David  exhorted, 
saying,  "  Be  not  thou  envious  against  the  workers 
of  iniquity"  (Ps.  xxxvii.  1),  so  Paul  exhorts, 
"  Continue  thou  in  the  things  which  thou  hast 
learned,"  and  not  simply  learned,  but  "hast 
been  assured  of,"  that  is,  hast  believed.  And 
what  have  I  believed?  That  this  is  the  Life. 
And  if  thou  seest  things  happening  contrary  to 
thy  belief,  be  not  troubled.      The   same  hap- 


Homily  VIII.] 


HOMILIES   ON   TIMOTHY. 


507 


pened  to  Abraham,  yet  he  was  not  affected  at  it. 
He  had  heard,  "In  Isaac  shall  thy  seed  be 
called"  (Gen.  xxi.  12);  and  he  was  com- 
manded to  sacrifice  Isaac,  yet  he  was  not 
troubled  nor  dismayed.  Let  no  one  be  offended 
because  of  the  wicked.  This  the  Scripture 
taught  from  the  beginning. 

What  then,  if  the  good  be  in  prosperity,  and 
the  wicked  be  punished  ?  The  one  is  likely  to 
happen,  the  other  not  so.  For  the  wicked  will 
possibly  be  punished,  but  the  good  cannot 
always  be  rejoicing.  No  one  was  equal  to  Paul, 
yet  he  passed  all  his  life  in  afflictions,  in  tears 
and  groanings  night  and  day.  "  For  the  space 
of  three  years,"  he  says,  "  I  ceased  not  to  warn 
every  one  night  and  day  with  tears."  (Acts  xx. 
31.)  And  again:  "That  which  cometh  upon 
me  daily."  (1  Cor.  xi.  28.)  He  did  not  re- 
joice to-day,  and  grieve  to-morrow,  but  he  ceased 
not  daily  to  grieve.  How  then  does  he  say, 
"  Evil  men  shall  wax  worse  and  worse  "  ?  He 
has  not  said,  they  shall  find  rest,  but "  they  shall 
wax  worse  and  worse."  Their  progress  is  for 
the  worse.  He  has  not  said,  they  shall  be  in 
prosperity.  But  if  they  are  punished,  they  are 
punished  that  thou  mayest  not  suppose  their 
sins  are  unavenged.  For  since  we  are  not  de- 
terred from  wickedness  by  the  fear  of  hell,  in 
very  tenderness  He  rouses  us  from  our  insensi- 
bility, and  awakens  us.  If  no  wicked  man  was 
ever  punished,  no  one  would  believe  that  God 
presides  over  human  affairs.  If  all  were  pun- 
ished, no  one  would  expect  a  future  resurrection, 
since  all  had  received  their  due  here.  On  this 
account  He  both  punishes,  and  forbears  to  pun- 
ish. On  this  account  the  righteous  suffer  tribu- 
lation here,  because  they  are  sojourners,  and 
strangers,  and  are  in  a  foreign  country.  The 
just  therefore  endure  these  things  for  the  pur- 
pose of  trial.  For  hear  what  God  said  to  Job  : 
"  Thinkest  thou  that  I  have  warned  thee  other- 
wise, than  that  thou  mightest  appear  just?"1 
(Job  xl.  3,  Gr.)  But  sinners  when  they  endure 
any  affliction,  suffer  but  the  punishment  of 
their  sins.  Under  all  circumstances,  therefore, 
whether  afflictive  or  otherwise,  let  us  give  thanks 
to  God.  For  both  are  beneficial.  He  does 
nothing  in  hatred  or  enmity  to  us,  but  all  things 
from  care  and  consideration  for  us. 

"  Knowing  that  from  a  child  thou  hast  known 
the  sacred  writings."  The  holy  Scriptures  he 
calls  "sacred  writings."  In  these  thou  wast 
nurtured,  so  that  through  them  thy  faith  ought 
to  be  firm  and  unshaken.  For  the  root  was 
laid  deep,  and  nourished  by  length  of  time,2  nor 
will  anything  subvert  it. 


*■  This  corresponds  to  Job  xl.  8,  in  our  version,  which  stands 
thus:  "Wilt  thou  condemn  Me,  that  thou  mayest  be  righteous?" 
Still  be  was  approved,  c.  xlii.  8. 

9  B.  has  «V  lor  ov,  which  must  be  right. 


And  speaking  of  the  holy  Scriptures,  he  has 
added,  "Which  are  able  to  make  thee  wise," 
that  is,  they  will  not  suffer  thee  to  have  any 
foolish  feeling,  such  as  most  men  have.  For  he 
who  knows  the  Scriptures  as  he  ought,  is  not 
offended  at  anything  that  happens ;  he  endures 
all  things  manfully,  referring  them  partly  to 
faith,  and  to  the  incomprehensible  nature  of 
the  divine  dispensation,  and  partly  knowing  rea- 
sons for  them,  and  finding  examples  in  the 
Scriptures.  Since  it  is  a  great  sign  of  knowl- 
edge not  to  be  curious  about  everything,  nor  to 
wish  to  know  all  things.  And  if  you  will  allow 
me,  I  will  explain  myself  by  an  example.  Let 
us  suppose  a  river,  or  rather  rivers,  (I  ask  no 
allowance,  I  only  speak  cf  what  rivers  really 
are,)  all  are  not  of  the  same  depth.  Some  have 
a  shallow  bed,  others  one  deep  enough  to  drown 
one  unacquainted  with  it.  In  one  part  there 
are  whirlpools,  and  not  in  another.  It  is  good 
therefore  to  forbear  to  make  trial  of  all,3  and  it 
is  no  small  proof  of  knowledge  not  to  wish  to 
sound  all  the  depths :  whereas  he  that  would 
venture  on  every  part  of  the  river,  is  really  most 
ignorant  of  the  peculiar  nature  of  rivers,  and 
will  often  be  in  danger  of  perishing,  from  ven- 
turing into  the  deeper  parts  with  the  same  bold- 
ness with  which  he  crossed  the  shallows.  So  it 
is  in  the  things  of  God.  He  that  will  know  all 
things,  and  ventures  to  intrude  into  everything, 
he  it  is  that  is  most  ignorant  what  God  is.  And 
of  rivers  indeed,  the  greater  part  is  safe,  and  the 
depths  and  whirlpools  few,  but  with  respect  to 
the  things  of  God,  the  greater  part  is  hidden, 
and  it  is  not  possible  to  trace  out  His  works. 
Why  then  art  thou  bent  on  drowning  thyself  in 
those  depths? 

Know  this,  however,  that  God  dispenses  all 
things,  that  He  provides  for  all,  that  we  are  free 
agents,  that  some  things  He  works,  and  some 
things  He  permits ;  that  He  wills  nothing  evil 
to  be  done  ;  that  all  things  are  not  done  by  His 
will,  but  some  by  ours  also ;  all  evil  things  by 
ours  alone,  all  good  things  by  our  will  conjointly 
with  His  influence  ;  and  that  nothing  is  without 
His  knowledge.  Therefore  He  worketh  all 
things.4  Thou  then  knowing  this  canst  reckon 
what  things  are  good,  what  are  evil,  and  what 
are  indifferent.  Thus  virtue  is  good,  vice  is  evil ; 
but  riches  and  poverty,  life  and  death,  are  things 
indifferent.  If  thou  knowest  this,  thou  wilt  know 
thereby,  that  the  righteous  are  afflicted  that  they 
may  be  crowned,  the  wicked,  that  they  may  re- 
ceive the  punishment  of  their  sins.  But  all  sin- 
ners are  not  punished  here,  lest  the  generality 

8  Instead  of  "  It  is  good,"  &c,  one  MS.  has,  "  So  also  of  the 
questions  concerning  God,  some  are  such  as  to  present  a  solution  at 
once  to  the  enquirer,  hut  others  so  secret  and  hidden  as  even  to 
cause  the  destruction  of  those  who  are  too  curiously  eager  to  get 
knowledge." 

*  i.e.  even  what  He  permits  is,  to  us,  His  appointment. 


5o8 


WORKS   OF   ST.   CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  VIII. 


should  disbelieve  the  Resurrection ;  nor  all  the 
righteous  afflicted,  lest  men  should  think  that 
vice,  and  not  virtue,  is  approved.  These  are 
the  rules  and  limits.  Bring  what  you  will  to 
the  test  of  these,  and  you  will  not  be  perplexed 
with  doubt.  For  as  there  is  among  calculators 
the  number  of  six  thousand,  to  which  all  things 
can  be  reduced,  and  everything  can  be  divided 
and  multiplied  in  the  scale  of  six  thousand,  and 
this  is  known  to  all  who  are  acquainted  with 
arithmetic1 ;  so  he  who  knows  those  rules,  which 
I  will  briefly  recapitulate,  will  never  be  offended. 
And  what  are  these?  That  virtue  is  a  good, 
vice  an  evil ;  that  diseases,  poverty,  ill-treat- 
ment, false  accusations,  and  the  like,  are  things 
indifferent ;  that  the  righteous  are  afflicted  here, 
or  if  ever  they  are  in  prosperity,  it  is  that  virtue 
may  not  appear  odious ;  that  the  wicked  enjoy 
pleasure  now  that  hereafter  they  may  be  pun- 
ished, or  if  they  are  sometimes  visited,  it  is  that 
vice  may  not  seem  to  be  approved,  nor  their 
actions  to  go  unpunished  ;  that  all  are  not  pun- 
ished, lest  there  should  be  a  disbelief  of  the 
time  of  resurrection;  that  even  of  the  good, 
some  who  have  done  bad  actions  are  quit  of 
them  here  ;  and  of  the  wicked,  some  have  good 
ones,  and  are  rewarded  for  them  here,  that  their 
wickedness  may  be  punisTied  hereafter  (Matt, 
vi.  5)  ;  that  the  works  of  God  are  for  the  most 
part  incomprehensible,  and  that  the  difference 
between  us  and  Him  is  greater  than  can  be  ex- 
pressed. If  we  reason  on  these  grounds,  nothing 
will  be  able  to  trouble  or  perplex  us.  If  we  lis- 
ten to  the  Scriptures  continually,  we  shall  find 
many  such  examples. 

"Which  are  able,"  he  says,  "to  make  thee 
wise  unto  salvation." 

For  the  Scriptures  suggest  to  us  what  is  to  be 
done,  and  what  is  not  to  be  done.  For  hear  this 
blessed  one  elsewhere  saying,  "  Thou  art  confi- 
dent that  thou  thyself  art  a  guide  of  the  blind,  a 
light  of  them  which  are  in  darkness,  an  instructor 
of  the  foolish,  a  teacher  of  babes."  (Rom.  ii. 
19,  20.)  Thou  seest  that  the  Law  is  the  light  of 
them  which  are  in  darkness ;  and  if  that  which 
showeth  the  letter,  the  letter  which  killeth,  is 
light,  what  then  is  the  Spirit  which  quickeneth  ? 
If  the  Old  Covenant  is  light,  what  is  the  New, 
which  contains  so  many,  and  so  great  revela- 
tions? where  the  difference  is  as  great,  as  if  any 
one  should  open  heaven  to  those  who  only  know 
the  earth,  and  make  all  things  there  visible.  There 
we  learn  concerning  hell,  heaven,  and  judgment. 
Let  us  not  believe  in  things  irrational.  They 
are  nothing  but  imposture.  "What,"  you  say, 
"  when  what  they  foretell  comes  to  pass  ?  "     It 

1  ypd^nara,  lit.  letters.  The  ypafifiarKTrai  taught  reading,  writ- 
ing, and  arithmetic.  Sec  Johannes  a  Wower  de  Polymathia,  c.  vi. 
Gracv.  torn.  ix.  Hales  suspects  the  number  6000,  but  it  may  refer 
to  computations  of  money,  as  the  talent  contains  600  denarii,  or 
6000  asses. 


is  because  you  believe  it,  if  it  does  come  to 
pass.  The  impostor  has  taken  thee  captive. 
Thy  life  is  in  his  power,  he  manages  thee  as  he 
will.  If  a  captain  of  robbers  should  have  under 
his  power  and  disposal  the  son  of  a  king,  who 
had  fled  to  him,  preferring  the  desert,  and  his 
lawless  company,  would  he  be  able  to  pronounce 
whether  he  would  live  or  die?  Assuredly  he 
would,  not  because  he  knows  the  future,  but 
because  he  is  the  disposer  of  his  life  or  death, 
the  youth  having  put  himself  in  his  power.  For 
according  to  his  own  pleasure,  he  may  either 
kill  him,  or  spare  his  life,  as  he  is  become  sub- 
ject to  him,  and  it  is  equally  at  his2  disposal  to 
say  whether  thou  shalt  be  rich  or  poor.  The 
greater  part  of  the  world  have  delivered  them- 
selves up  into  the  hands  of  the  devil. 

And  furthermore,  it  contributes  much  to  favor 
the  pretenses  of  these  deceivers,  that  a  man  has 
accustomed  himself  to  believe  in  them.    For  no 
one  takes  notice  of  their  failures,  but  their  lucky 
conjectures  are  observed.      But  if  these  men 
have  any  power  of,  prognosticating,  bring  them 
to  me,  a  believer.     I  say  not  this,  as  magnifying 
myself,  (for  it  is  no  great  honor  to  be  superior 
to  these  things,)  and  indeed  I  am  deep- laden 
with  sins ;  but  with  respect  to  these  matters.  I 
will  not  be  humble-minded ;    by  the  grace  of 
God  I  despise  them  all.     Bring  me  this  pre- 
tender   to    magic ;    let   him,    if    he    has   any 
power   of  prognosticating,    tell    me  what  will 
happen   to   me   to-morrow.      But   he   will   not 
tell   me.     For  I   am  under  the  power  of  the 
King,  and  he  has  no  claim  to  my  allegiance 
or  submission.     I  am  far  from  his  holes  and 
caverns.     I  war  under  the  king.     "But  some 
one  committed  theft,"  you  say,  "  and  this  man 
discovered  it."    This  is  not  always  true,  certainly, 
but  for  the  most  part  absurdities  and  falsehoods. 
For  they  know  nothing.     If  indeed  they  know 
anything,  they  ought  rather  to  speak  of  their 
own  concerns,  how  the  numerous  offerings  to 
their  idols  have  been  stolen,  how  so  much  of 
their  gold  has  been  melted.     Why  have  they 
not  informed  their  Priests  ?     Even  for  the  sake 
of  money,  they  have  not  been  able  to  give  in- 
formation when  their  idol-temples   have  been 
burnt,   and   many  have   perished   with    them.3 
Why  do  they  not  provide  for  their  own  safety? 
But  it  is  altogether  a  matter  of  chance,  if  they 
have   predicted   anything.     With   us  there  are 
prophets,  and  they  do  not  fail.     They  do  not 
speak  truth  in  one  instance  and  falsehood  in 
another,  but  always  declare  the  truth ;  for  this 
is  the  privilege  of  foreknowledge. 

Cease,  then,  from   this  madness,  I   beseech 

1  i.e.  Satan's. 

9  He  may  allude  to  the  burning  of  Daphne,  lamented  by  Lib*- 
nius,  Or.  6x,  which  is  preserved  by  St.  Chrysostom  in  his  work  on 
St.  Babylas,  §  18,  Ben.  t.  2,  p.  560,  where  be  also  mentions  this  in- 
ability to  discover  the  cause. 


Homily  IX.] 


HOMILIES   ON   TIMOTHY. 


509 


you,  if  at  least  you  believe  in  Christ ;  and  if  you 
believe  not,  why  do  you  expose  yourselves? 
Why  do  you  deceive  ?  "  How  long  will  ye  halt 
on  both  your  hips?  "  (1  Kings  xviii.  21,  Sept.) 
Why  do  you  go  to  them  ?  Why  enquire  of  them  ? 
The  instant  you  go  to  them,  the  instant  you  en- 
quire, you  put  yourself  in  slavery  to  them.  For 
you  enquire,  as  if  you  believed.  "No,"  you 
say,  "  I  do  not  enquire,  as  believing,  but  making 
trial  of  them."  But  to  make  trial,  whether  they 
speak  the  truth,  is  the  part  not  of  one  who  be- 
lieves that  they  are  false,  but  of  one  who  still 
doubts.  Wherefore  then  dost  thou  enquire  what 
will  happen  ?  For  if  they  answered,  "  This  will 
happen,  but  do  so  and  so,  and  thou  wilt  escape 
it "  ;  even  in  that  case  thou  oughtest  by  no  means 
to  be  an  idolater ;  yet  thy  madness  were  not  so 
great.  But  if  they  foretell  future  events,1  he 
that  listens  to  them  will  gain  nothing  more  than 
unavailing  sorrow.  The  event  does  not  happen, 
but  he  suffers  the  uneasiness,  and  torments,2 
himself. 

If  it  were  for  our  good,  God  would  not  have 
grudged  us  this  foreknowledge.  He  who  has 
revealed  to  us  things  in  heaven,  would  not  have 
envied  us.  For,  "  All  things,"  He  says,  "  that  I 
have  heard  of  the  Father  I  have  made  known 
unto  you  "  ;  and,  "  I  call  you  not  servants,  but 
friends.  Ye  are  my  friends."  (John  xv.  15.) 
Why  then  did  He  not  make  these  things  known 
unto  us  ?    Because  He  would  not  have  us  con- 


cerned about  them.  And  as  a  proof  that  He 
does  not  envy  us  this  knowledge,  such  things 
were  revealed  to  the  ancients,  because  they  were 
babes,  even  about  an  ass,4  and  the  like.  But  to 
us,  because  He  would  not  have  us  concerned 
about  such  things,  He  has  not  cared  to  reveal 
them.  But  what  do  we  learn?  Things  which 
they  never  knew,  for  little  indeed  were  all  those 
things  of  old.  But  what  we  are  taught  is  this, 
that  we  shall  rise  again,  that  we  shall  be  immor- 
tal, and  incorruptible,  that  our  life  shall  have  no 
end,  that  all  things  will  pass  away,  that  we  shall 
be  caught  up  in  the  clouds,  that  the  wicked 
shall  suffer  punishment,  and  numberless  other 
things,  and  in  all  these  there  is  no  falsehood. 
Is  it  not  better  to  know  these  than  to  hear  that 
the  ass  that  was  lost  is  found  ?  Lo,  thou  hast 
gotten  thine  ass  !  Lo,  thou  hast  found  him  ! 
What  is  thy  gain?  Will  he  not  soon  be  lost 
again  some  other  way?  For  if  he  leave  thee 
not,  at  least  thou  wilt  lose  him  in  thy  death. 
But  the  things  which  I  have  mentioned,  if  we 
will  but  hold  them  fast,  we  shall  retain  perpetu- 
ally. These  therefore  let  us  pursue.  To  these 
stable  and  enduring  goods  let  us  attach  our- 
selves. Let  us  not  give  heed  to  soothsayers, 
fortune-tellers,  and  jugglers,  but  to  God  who 
knoweth  all  things  certainly,  whose  knowledge  is 
universal.  Thus  we  shall  know  all  that  it  befits 
us  to  know,  and  shall  obtain  all  good  things, 
through  the  grace  and  lovingkindness,  &c.  , 


HOMILY    IX. 


2  Timothy  iii.  16,  17. 


*  All  Scripture  is  given  by  inspiration  of  God,  and  is 
profitable  for  doctrine,  for  reproof,  for  correction, 
for  instruction  in  righteousness:  That  the  man  of 
God  may  be  perfect,  thoroughly  furnished  unto  all 
good  works."  [R.  V. :  Every  Scripture  inspired  of 
God  is  also  profitable,  &c] 

Having  offered  much  exhortation  and  conso- 
lation from  other  sources,  he  adds  that  which  is 
more  perfect,  derived  from  the  Scriptures ;  and 
he  is  reasonably  full  in  offering  consolation,  be- 
cause he  has  a  great  and  sad  thing  to  say.  For 
if  Elisha,  who  was  with  his  master  to  his  last 
breath,  when  he  saw  him  departing  as  it  were  in 
death,*  rent  his  garments  for  grief,  what  think 

1  Downes  thinks  it  should  be  "events  not  to  come,"  but  the 
contrast  is  in  the  form  of  the  prediction.  The  aorist  would  jus- 
tify, "  The  event  perchance  does  not  happen." 

»  Lit.  "pickles."  ... 

*  ir  rpoirq*  TtXtvrr^  bpZtv  avrbr  rtXtvrStvra..  An  Old  Lat.  has 
**bjr  a  new  and  Strang  manner  of  death."  The  present  Greek  is 
difficult  and  suspected. 


you  must  this  disciple  suffer,  so  loving  and  so 
beloved,  upon  hearing  that  his  master  was  about 
to  die,  and  that  he  could  not  enjoy  his  company 
when  he  was  near  his  death,  which  is  above  all 
things  apt  to  be  distressing?  For  we  are  less 
grateful  for  the  past  time,  when  we  have  been 
deprived  of  the  more  recent  intercourse  of  those 
who  are  departed.  For  this  reason  when  he 
had  previously  offered  much  consolation,  he  then 
discourses  concerning  his  own  death :  and  this 
in  no  ordinary  way,  but  in  words  adapted  to 
comfort  him  and  fill  him  with  joy ;  so  as  to  have 
it  considered  as  a  sacrifice  rather  than  a  death ; 
a  migration,  as  in  fact  it  was,  and  a  removal  to 
a  better  state.  "  For  I  am  now  ready  to  be 
offered  up"  (2 Tim.  iv.  6),  he  says.  For  this 
reason  he  writes  :  "  All  Scripture  is  given  by  in- 
spiration  of  God,5  and  is  profitable  for  doctrine, 

*  Referring  to  x  Sam.  ix.  ao.      *  Or, "  every  Scripture  inspired,"  ftc* 


5io 


WORKS   OF   ST.    CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  IX. 


for  reproof,  for  correction,  for  instruction  in 
righteousness."  All  what  Scripture  ?  all  that  sa- 
cred writing,  he  means,  of  which  I  was  speaking. 
This  is  said  of  what  he  was  discoursing  of;  about 
which  he  said,  "  From  a  child  thou  hast  known 
the  holy  Scriptures."  All  such,  then,  "  is  given 
by  inspiration  of  God  "  ;  therefore,  he  means,  do 
not  doubt ;  and  it  is  "  profitable  for  doctrine,  for 
reproof,  for  correction,  for  instruction  in  right- 
eousness :  that  the  man  of  God  may  be  perfect, 
thoroughly  furnished  unto  all  good  works." 

"  For  doctrine."  For  thence  we  shall  know, 
whether  we  ought  to  learn  or  to  be  ignorant  of 
anything.  And  thence  we  may  disprove  what  is 
false,  thence  we  may  be  corrected  and  brought 
to  a  right  mind,  may  be  comforted  and  con- 
soled, and  if  anything  is  deficient,  we  may  have 
it  added  to  us. 

"  That  the  man  of  God  may  be  perfect."  For 
this  is  the  exhortation  of  the  Scripture  given, 
that  the  man  of  God  may  be  rendered  perfect 
by  it ;  without  this  therefore  he  cannot  be  per- 
fect. Thou  hast  the  Scriptures,  he  says,  in 
place  of  me.  If  thou  wouldest  learn  anything, 
thou  mayest  learn  it  from  them.  And  if  he 
thus  wrote  to  Timothy,  who  was  filled  with  the 
Spirit,  how  much  more  to  us  ! 

"  Thoroughly  furnished  unto  all  good  works  "  ; 
not  merely  taking  part  in  them,  he  means,  but 
"  thoroughly  furnished." 

Chap.  iv.  i.  "I  charge  thee  therefore  before 
God,  and  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  Who  shall 
judge  the  quick  and  the  dead." 

He  either  means  the  wicked  and  the  just,  or 
the  departed  and  those  that  are  still  living ;  for 
many  will  be  left  alive.  In  the  former  Epistle 
he  raised-  his  fears,  saying,  "  I  give  thee  charge 
in  the  sight  of  God,  Who  quickeneth  all  things  " 
(i  Tim.  vi.  13)  :  but  here  he  sets  before  him 
what  is  more  dreadful,  "  Who  shall  judge  the 
quick  and  the  dead,"  that  is,  Who  shall  call 
them  to  account  "at  His  appearing  and  His 
kingdom."  When  shall  He  judge?  at  His  ap- 
pearing with  glory,  and  in  His  kingdom.  Either 
he  says  this  to  show  that  He  will  not  come  in 
the  way  that  He  now  has  come,  or,  "  I  call  to 
witness  His  coming,  and  His  kingdom."  He 
calls  Him  to  witness,  showing  that  he  had  re- 
minded Him  of  that  appearing.  Then  teaching 
him  how  he  ought  to  preach  the  word,  he  adds, 

Ver.  2.  "  Preach  the  word :  be  instant  in 
season,  out  of  season ;  reprove,  rebuke,  exhort 
with  all  longsuffering  and  doctrine." 

What  means  "  in  season,  out  of  season  "  ?  That 
is,  have  not  any  limited  season  :  let  it  always  be 
thy  season,  not  only  in  peace  and  security,  and 
when  sitting  in  the  Church.  Whether  thou  be 
in  danger,  in  prison,  in  chains,  or  going  to  thy 
death,  at  that  very  time  reprove.  Withhold  not 
rebuke,  for  reproof  is  then  most  seasonable, 


when  thy  rebuke  will  be  most  successful,  when 
the  reality  is  proved.  "  Exhort,"  he  says. 
After  the  manner  of  physicians,  having  shown 
the  wound,  he  gives  the  incision,  he  applies  the 
plaster.  For  if  you  omit  either  of  these,  the 
other  becomes  useless.  If  you  rebuke  without 
convicting,  you  will  seem  to  be  rash,  and  no 
one  will  tolerate  it,  but  after  the  matter  is  proved, 
he  will  submit  to  rebuke :  before,  he  will  be 
headstrong.  And  if  you  convict  and  rebuke, 
but  vehemently,  and  do  not  apply  exhortation,1 
all  your  labor  will  be  lost.  For  conviction  *  is 
intolerable  in  itself,  if  consolation  be  not  mingled 
with  it.  As  if  incision,  though  salutary  in  itself, 
have  not  plenty  of  lenitives  to  assuage  the  pain, 
the  patient  cannot  endure  cutting  and  hacking, 
so  it  is  in  this  matter. 

"With  all  longsuffering  and  doctrine."  For 
he  that  reproves  is  required  to  be  longsuffering, 
that  he  may  not  believe  hastily,  and  rebuke 
needs  consolation,  that  it  may  be  received  as 
it  ought.  And  why  to  "  longsuffering  "  does  he 
add  "  doctrine  "  ?  "  Not  as  in  anger,  not  as  in 
hatred,  not  as  insulting  over  him,  not  as  having 
caught  an  enemy.  Far  be  these  things  from 
thee."  But  how?  As  loving,  as  sympathizing 
with  him,  as  more  distressed  than  himself  at  his 
grief,  as  melted  at  his  sufferings?  "With  all 
longsuffering  and  doctrine."  No  ordinary  teach- 
ing is  implied. 

Ver.  3.  "  For  the  time  will  come  when  they 
will  not  endure  sound  doctrine." 

Before  they  grow  stiffnecked,8  preoccupy  them 
ail.  For  this  reason  he  says,  "  in  season,  out  of 
season  " ;  do  everything,  so  as  to  have  willing 
disciples. 

"  But  after  their  own  lusts,"  he  says,  "  shall 
they  heap  to  themselves  teachers." 

Nothing  can  be  more  expressive  than  these 
words.  For  by  saying  "  they  shall  heap  to  them- 
selves," he  shows  the  indiscriminate  multitude 
of  the  teachers,  as  also  by  their  being  elected 
by  their  disciples.  "  They  shall  heap  to  them- 
selves teachers,"  he  says,  "having  itching  ears." 
Seeking  for  such  as  speak  to  gratify  and  delight 
their  hearers. 

Ver.  4.  "  And  they  shall  turn  away  their  ears 
from  the  truth,  and  be  turned  unto  fables." 

This  he  foretells,  not  as  willing  to  throw 
him  into  despair,  but  to  prepare  him  to  bear  it 
firmly,  when  it  shall  happen.  As  Christ  also  did 
in  saying,  "  They  will  deliver  you  up,  and  they 
will  scourge  you,  and  bring  you  before  the  syna- 
gogues, for  My  name's  sake."  (Matt.  x.  1 7.)  And 
this  blessed  man  elsewhere  says,  "  For  I  know 
this,  that  after  my  departure  shall  grievous  wolves 
enter  in  among  you,  not  sparing  the  flock."  (Acts 


>  Or,  "  comfort." 

*  The  word  translated  "  reproof.' 

*  See  on  Stat.  Horn.  xii. 


Homily  IX.] 


HOMILIES   ON   TIMOTHY. 


5*1 


xx.  29.)  But  this  he  said  that  they  might  watch, 
and  duly  use  the  present  opportunity. 

Ver.  5.  "  But  watch  thou  in  all  things,  en- 
dure affliction." 

It  was  for  this,  therefore,  that  he  foretold 
these  things;  as  Christ  also  toward  the  end 
predicted  that  there  should  be  "false  Christs 
and  false  prophets " ;  so  he  too,  when  he  was 
about  to  depart,  spoke  of  these  things.  "But 
watch  thou  in  all  things,  endure  affliction " ; 
that  is,  labor,  preoccupy  their  minds  before  this 
pestilence  assails  them  ;  secure  the  safety  of  the 
sheep  before  the  wolves  enter  in,  everywhere 
endure  hardship. 

"  Do  the  work  of  an  evangelist,  make  full 
proof  of  thy  ministry."  Thus  it  was  the  work 
of  an  evangelist  that  he  should  endure  hardship, 
both  in  himself,  and  from  those  without ;  "  make 
full  proof  of  "  that  is,  fulfill  "  thy  ministry."  And 
behold  another  necessity  for  his  enduring  af- 
fliction, 

Ver.  6.  "  For  I  am  now  ready  to  be  poured 
out,1  and  the  time  of  my  departure  is  at  hand." 

He  has  not  said  of  my  sacrifice  ;  but,  what  is 
much  more,  "of  my  being  poured  out."  For 
the  whole  of  the  sacrifice  was  not  offered  to  God, 
but  the  whole  of  the  drink-offering  was. 

Ver.  7.  "  I  have  fought  the  good  fight,  I  have 
finished  the  course,  I  have  kept  the  faith." 

Often,  when  I  have  taken  the  Apostle  into  my 
hands,  and  have  considered  this  passage,  I  .have 
been  at  a  loss  to  understand  why  Paul  here 
speaks  so  loftily :  "  I  have  fought  the  good 
fight."  But  now  by  the  grace  of  God  I  seem 
to  have  found  it  out.  For  what  purpose  then 
does  he  speak  thus  ?  He  is  desirous  to  console 
the  despondency  of  his  disciple,  and  therefore 
bids  him  be  of  good  cheer,  since  he  was  go- 
ing to  his  crown,  having  finished  all  his  work, 
and  obtained  a  glorious  end.  Thou  oughtest  to 
rejoice,  he  says,  not  to  grieve.  And  why?  Be- 
cause, "I  have  fought  the  good  fight."  As  a 
father  whose  son  was  sitting  by  him,  bewailing 
his  orphan  state,  might  console  him,  saying,  Weep 
not,  my  son  ;  we  have  lived  a  good  life,'  we  have 
arrived  at  old  age,  and  now  we  leave  thee.  Our 
life  has  been  irreproachable,  we  depart  with 
glory,  and  thou  mayest  be  held  in  admiration 
for  our  actions.  Our  king  is  much  indebted  to 
us*  As  if  he  had  said,  We  have  raised  trophies, 
we  have  conquered  enemies,  and  this  not  boast- 
fully. God  forbid ;  but  to  raise  up  his  de- 
jected son,  and  to  encourage  him  by  his  praises 
to  bear  firmly  what  had  happened,  to  entertain 
good  hopes,  and  not  to  think  it  a  matter  grievous 
to  be  borne.  For  sad,  sad  indeed  is  separation ; 
and  hear  Paul  himself,  saying,  "  We  being  be- 
reaved of2  you  for  a  short  time,  in  presence,  not 

1  i.e.  as  the  drink-offering.     [So  R.  V.  in  margin. — P.  S.] 


in  heart."  (1  Thess.  ii.  17.)  If  he  then  felt  so 
much  at  being  separated  from  his  disciples,  what 
thinkest  thou  were  the  feelings  of  Timothy?  If 
on  parting  from  him  whilst  living  he  wept,  so  that 
Paul  says,  "  Being  mindful  of  thy  tears,  that  I 
may  be  filled  with  joy."  (  2  Tim.  i.  4) ,  how  much 
more  at  his  death  ?  These  things  then  he  wrote 
to  console  him.  Indeed  the  whole  Epistle  is  full 
of  consolation,  and  is  a  sort  of  Testament.  "  I 
have  fought  the  good  fight,  I  have  finished  my 
course,  I  have  kept  the  faith."  "A  good  fight," 
he  says,  therefore  do  thou  engage  in  it.  But  is 
that  a  good  fight,  where  there  are  imprisonment, 
chains,  and  death  ?  Yea,  he  says,  for  it  is  fought 
in  the  cause  of  Christ,  and  great  crowns  are  won 
in  it.  "  The  good  fight  "  !  There  is  no  worthier 
than  this  contest.  This  crown  is  without  end. 
This  is  not  of  olive  leaves.  It  has  not  a  human 
umpire.  It  has  not  men  for  spectators.  The 
theater  is  crowded  with  Angels.  There  men 
labor  many  days,  and  suffer  hardships,  and 
for  one  hour  they  receive  the  crown,  and  imme- 
diately all  the  pleasure  passes  away.  But  here 
far  otherwise,  it  continues  for  ever  in  brightness, 
glory,  and  hbnor.  Henceforth  we  ought  to  re- 
joice. For  I  am  entering  on  my  rest,  I  am  leav- 
ing the  race.  Thou  hast  heard  that  "  it  is  bet- 
ter to  depart  and  to  be  with  Christ." 

I  have  finished  "  the  course."  For  it  behooves 
us  both  to  contend  and  to  run ;  to  contend,  by 
enduring  afflictions  firmly,  and  to  run,  not  vainly, 
but  to  some  good  end.  It  is  truly  a  good  fight, 
not  only  delighting,  but  benefiting  the  spectator : 
and  the  race  does  not  end  in  nothing.  It  is  not 
a  mere  display  of  strength  and  of  rivalry.  It 
draws  all  up  to  heaven.  This  race  is  brighter 
than  the  siuVs,  yea,  this  which  Paul  ran  upon 
earth,  than  that  which  he  runs  in  heaven.  And 
how  had  he  "finished  his  course"?  He  trav- 
ersed the  whole  world,  beginning  from  Galilee 
and  Arabia,  and  advancing  to  the  extremities  of 
the  earth,  so  that,  as  he  says,  "  From  Jerusalem 
and  round  about  unto  Illyricum  I  have  fully 
preached  the  Gospel  of  Christ."  (Rom.  xv.  19.) 
He  passed  over  the  earth  like  a  bird,  or  rather 
more  swiftly  than  a  bird :  for  a  bird  only  flies 
over  it,  but  he,  having  the  wing  of  the  Spirit, 
made  his  way  through  numberless  impediments, 
dangers,  deaths,  and  calamities,  so  that  he  was 
even  fleeter  than  a  bird.  Had  he  been  a  mere 
bird,  he  might  have  alighted  and  been  taken, 
but  being  upborne  by  the  Spirit  he  soared  above 
all  snares,  as  a  bird  with  a  wing  of  fire. 

"  I  have  kept  the  faith,"  he  says.  There  were 
many  things  that  would  have  robbed  him  of  it, 
not  only  human  friendships,  but  menaces,  and 
deaths,  and  countless  other  perils  :  but  he  stood 
firm  against  all.  How?  by  being  sober  and 
watchful.    This  might  have  sufficed  for  the  con- 


5" 


WORKS   OF   ST.   CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  IX. 


solation  of  his  disciples,  but  he  further  adds  the 
rewards.     And  what  are  these  ? 

Ver.  8.  "  Henceforth  there  is  laid  up  for  me  a 
crown  of  righteousness." 

Here  again  he  calls  virtue  in  general  right- 
eousness. Thou  shouldest  not  grieve  that  I  shall 
depart,  to  be  invested  with  that  crown  which 
will  by  Christ  be  placed  upon  my  head.  But  if 
I  continued  here,  truly  thy  mightest  rather  grieve, 
and  fear  lest  I  should  fail  and  perish. 

Ver.  8.  "  Which  the  Lord,  the  righteous 
Judge,  shall  give  me  at  that  day,  and  not  to  me 
only,  but  to  all  that  love  His  appearing.,, 

Here  also  he  raises  his  mind.  If  "to  all," 
much  more  to  Timothy.  But  he  did  not  say, 
"  and  to  thee,"  but  "  to  all "  ;  meaning,  if  to  all, 
much  more  to  him. 

Moral.  But  how,  it  may  be  asked,  is  one 
to  "love  the  appearing"  (t^v  €7r«£av«av)  of 
Christ?  By  rejoicing  at  His  coming;  and  he 
who  rejoices  at  His  coming,  will  perform  works 
worthy  of  His  joy ;  he  will  throw  away  his  sub- 
stance if  need  be,  and  even  his  life,  so  that  he 
may  obtain  future  blessings,  that  he  may  be 
thought  worthy  to  behold  that  second  coming 
in  a  fitting  state,  in  confidence,  in  brightness 
and  glory.  This  is  to  "love  His  appearing." 
He  who  loves  His  appearing  will  do  everything 
to  ensure,  before  His  general  coming,  a  par- 
ticular coming  to  himself.  And  how,  you  will 
say,  is  this  possible?  Hear  from  Christ,  who 
says,  "  If  a  man  love  Me,  he  will  keep  My 
words,  and  My  Father  and  I  will  come  unto  him, 
and  make  Our  abode  with  him."  (John  xiv. 
23.)  And  think  how  great  a  privilege  it  is  that 
He  who  will  appear  to  all  generally,  should 
promise  to  come  to  us  in  particular :  for  He 
says,  "  We  will  come  and  make  Our  abode  with 
him."  If  any  man  "love  His  appearing,"  he 
will  do  everything  to  invite  Him  to  himself,  and 
to  hold  Him,  that  the  light  may  shine  upon  him. 
Let  there  be  nothing  unworthy  of  His  coming, 
and  He  will  soon  take  up  His  abode  with  us. 

And  it  is  called  His  "  Epiphany," l  because  He 
will  appear  above,8  and  shine  forth  from  on  high. 
Let  us  therefore  "seek  those  things  that  are 
above,"  and  we  shall  soon  draw  down  those 
beams  upon  us.  None  of  those  who  grovel 
below,  and  bury  themselves  in  this  lower  earth, 
will  be  able  to  view  the  light  of  that  Sun.  None 
of  those  who  defile  themselves  with  worldly 
things  will  be  able  to  behold  that  Sun  of  right- 
eousness. He  shines  on  none  of  those  who  are 
so  occupied.  Recover  thyself  a  little,  recover 
thyself  from  that  depth,  from  the  waves  of  a 
worldly  life,  if  thou  wouldest  see  the  Sun,  and 
enjoy  His  appearing.  Then  thou  wilt  see  Him 
with  great  confidence.  Be  even  how  a  philoso- 
pher.    Let  not  a  spirit  of  perverseness  possess 


int<ftdv(ia. 


eirapw. 


thee,  lest  He  smite  thee  severely,  and  bring  thee 
low.  Let  not  thy  heart  be  hardened  ;  nor  dark- 
ened, lest  thou  be  shipwrecked  there.  Let  there 
be  no  self-deceit.  For  the  rocks  beneath  the 
sea  cause  the  most  fatal  shipwrecks.  Nourish 
no  wild  beasts,  I  mean  evil  passions,  worse  than 
wild  beasts.  Confide  not  in  things  ever  flowing, 
that  thou  mayest  be  able  to  stand  firmly.  None 
can  stand  upon  water,  but  upon  a  rock  all  find 
a  secure  footing.  Worldly  things  are  as  water, 
as  a  torrent,  that  passes  away.  "  The  waters," 
he  saith,  "  are  come  in  unto  my  soul."  (Ps.  lxix. 
1.)  Spiritual  things  are  as  a  rock.  For  he 
saith,  "Thou  hast  set  my  feet  upon  a  rock." 
(Ps.  xl.  2.)  Worldly  things  are  as  mire  and 
clay ;  let  us  extricate  ourselves  from  them.  For 
so  we  shall  be  able  to  attain  to  the  appearing  of 
Christ.  Whatever  may  befall  us,  let  us  endure. 
It  is  a  sufficient  consolation  in  all  circumstances 
that  we  suffer  for  Christ.  This  divine  incanta- 
tion let  us  repeat,  and  it  will  charm  away  the 
pain  of  every  wound. 

And  how  can  we  suffer  for  Christ,  you  ask? 
If  one  accuse  thee  falsely  in  any  case,  not  on 
account  of  Christ,  yet  if  thou  bearest  it  patiently, 
if  thou  givest  thanks,  if  thou  prayest  for  him,  all 
this  thou  doest  for  Christ.  But  if  thou  curse 
him,  if  thou  utter  discontent,  if  thou  attempt  to 
revenge  it,  though  thou  shouldest  not  be  able, 
it  is  not  for  Christ's  sake ;  thou  sufferest  loss, 
and  art  deprived  of  thy  reward  on  account  of 
thy  intention.  For  it  rests  with  us  either  to 
profit,  or  to  be  injured,  by  afflictions.  It  depends 
not  upon  the  nature  of  the  affliction,  but  upon 
the  disposition  of  our  own  minds.  As,  for  in- 
stance, great  were  the  sufferings  of  Job,  yet  he 
suffered  with  thankfulness ;  and  he  was  justified, 
not  because  he  suffered,  but  because  in  suffering 
he  endured  it  thankfully.  Another  under  the 
same  sufferings,  yet  not  the  same,  for  none  ever 
suffered  like  Job  —  but  under  lighter  sufferings, 
exclaims,  is  impatient,  curses  the  whole  world, 
and  complains  against  God.  He  is  condemned 
and  sentenced,  not  because  he  suffered,  but 
because  he  blasphemed;  and  he  blasphemed, 
not  from  any  necessity  arising  from  his  afflic- 
tions, since  if  necessity  arising  from  events  were 
the  cause,  Job  too  must  have  blasphemed ;  but 
since  he,  who  suffered  more  severely,  did  no 
such  thing,  it  did  not  come  to  pass  from  this 
cause,  but  from  the  man's  weakness  of  purpose. 
We  want  therefore  strength  of  soul,  and  nothing 
will  then  appear  grievous,  but  if  our  soul  is 
weak,  we  find  a  grievance  in  everything. 

According  to  our  dispositions,  all  things  be- 
come tolerable  or  intolerable.  Let  us  strengthen 
our  resolution,  and  we  shall  bear  all  things  easily. 
The  tree  whose  roots  are  fixed  deep  in  the  earth 
is  not  shaken  by  the  utmost  violence  of  the 
storm,  but  if  it  be  set  lightly  in  the  surface  of 


Homily  X.] 


HOMILIES   ON   TIMOTHY. 


513 


the  ground,  a  slight  gust  of  wind  will  tear  it  up 
from  the  roots.  So  it  is  with  us ;  if  our  flesh  be 
nailed  down  by  the  fear  of  God,  nothing  will  be 
able  to  shake  us ;  but  if  we  merely  intend  well, 
a  little  shock  will  subvert  and  destroy  us.  Where- 
fore, I  exhort,  let  us  bear  all  with  much  cheer- 
fulness, imitating  the  Prophet,  who  says,  "My 
soul  cleaveth  to  Thee ' ' ;  observe,  he  says  not, 
draweth  nigh,  but  "  cleaveth  to  Thee " ;  and 
again,  "My  soul  thirsteth  for  Thee."  (Ps.  lxii. 
3.)     He  said  not  merely  "longeth,"  that  he 


might  by  such  words  express  the  vehemence  of 
his  desire ;  and  again,  "  Fix l  my  flesh  in  Thy 
fear."  (Ps.  cxix.  120,  Sept.)  For  he  wishes  us 
so  to  cleave  and  be  united  to  Him,  that  we  may 
never  be  separated  from  Him.  If  thus  we  hold 
by  God,  if  thus  we  rivet  our  thoughts  upon  Him, 
if  we  thirst  with  the  love  of  Him,  all  that  we  de- 
sire will  be  ours,  and  we  shall  obtain  the  good 
things  to  come,  in  Jesus  Christ  our  Lord,  to 
whom  with  the  Father  and  the  Holy  Ghost  be 
glory,  power,  and  honor,  now  and  for  ever.  Amen. 


HOMILY    X. 


2  Timothy  iv.  9-13. 


Do  thy  diligence  to  come  shortly  unto  me :  For  Demas 
hath  forsaken  me,  having  loved  this  present  world, 
and  is  departed  unto  Thessalonica;  Crescens  to 
Galatia,  Titus  unto  Dalmatia.  Only  Luke  is  with 
me.  Take  Mark,  and  bring  him  with  thee :  for  he 
is  profitable  to  me  for  the  ministry.  And  Tychicus 
have  I  sent  to  Ephesus.  The  cloak  that  I  left  at 
Troas  with  Carpus,  when  thou  comest,  bring  with 
thee,  and  the  books,  but  especially  the  parchments." 


It  is  worth  while  to  enquire  why  he  calls 
Timothy  to  him,  inasmuch  as  he  was  intrusted 
-with  a  Church,  and  a  whole  nation.  It  was  not 
from  arrogance.  For  Paul  was  ready  to  come 
to  him ;  for  we  find  him  saying,  "  But  if  I  tarry 
long,  that  thou  mayest  know  how  thou  oughtest 
to  behave  thyself  in  the  house  of  God."  (1  Tim. 
iii.  15.)  But  he  was  withholden  by  a  strong 
necessity.  He  was  no  longer  master  of  his  own 
movements.  He  was  in  prison,  and  had  been 
confined  by  Nero,  and  was  all  but  on  the  point 
of  death.  That  this  might  not  happen  before 
he  saw  his  disciple,  he  therefore  sends  for  him, 
desiring  to  see  him  before  he  dies,  and  perhaps 
to  deliver  much  in  charge  to  him.  Wherefore 
he  says,  "  Hasten  to  come  to  me  before  the 
-winter." 

"  For  Demas  hath  forsaken  me,  having  loved 
this  present  world."  He  does  not  say,  "  That  I 
may  see  thee  before  I  depart  this  life,"  which 
would  have  grieved  him,  but  "because  I  am 
alone,"  he  says,  "and  have  no  one  to  help  or 
support  me." 

"  For  Demas  hath  forsaken  me,  having  loved 
this  present  world,  and  is  departed  to  Thessa- 
lonica "  ;  that  is,  having  loved  his  own  ease  and 
security  from  danger,  he  has  chosen  rather  to 
live  luxuriously  at  home,  than  to  suffer  hardships 
with  me,  and  share  my  present  dangers.  He 
lias  blamed  him  alone,  not  for  the  sake  of  blaming 


him,  but  to  confirm  us,  that  we  may  not  be 
effeminate  in  declining  toils  and  dangers,  for  this 
is,  "having  loved  this  present  world."  At  the 
same  time  he  wishes  to  draw  his  disciple  to  him. 

"  Crescens  to  Galatia,  Titus  to  Dalmatia." 

These  he  does  not  censure.  For  Titus  was 
one  of  the  most  admirable  men,  so  that  to 
him  he  intrusted  the  affairs  of  the  island,  no 
small  island,  I  mean,  but  that  great  one  of 
Crete. 

"Only  Luke  is  with  me."  For  he  adhered 
to  him  inseparably.  It  was  he  who  wrote  the 
Gospel,  and  the  General 2  Acts ;  he  was  devoted 
to  labors,  and  to  learning,  and  a  man  of  forti- 
tude ;  of  him  Paul  writes,  "  whose  praise  is  in 
the  Gospel8  throughout  all  the  Churches."  (2 
Cor.  viii.  18.) 

"  Take  Mark,  and  bring  him  with  thee,  for  he 
is  profitable  to  me  for  the  ministry." 

It  is  not  for  his  own  relief,  but  for  the  ministry 
of  the  Gospel  that  he  wanted  him.  For  though 
imprisoned,  he  did  not  cease  to  preach.  So  it 
was  on  the  same  account  he  sent  for  Timothy, 
not  for  his  own,  but  for  the  Gospel's  sake,  that 
his  death  might  occasion  no  disturbance  to  the 
faithful,  when  many  of  his  own  disciples  were 
present  to  prevent  tumults,  and  to  console  those 
who  would  scarce  have  endurance  to  bear  up  at 
his  death.  For  it  is  probable  that  the  believers 
at  Rome  were  men  of  consequence. 

"  And  Tychicus  have  I  sent  to  Ephesus.  The 
cloak  that  I  left  at  Troas  with  Carpus,  when 
thou  comest  bring  with  thee,  and  the  books,  but 
especially  the  parchments." 

The   word    here    translated   "  cloak " 4   may 


1  Lit.  "nail";  compare  Gal.  v.  24. 
s  icadoAucaf. 

*  He  takes  this  to  allude  to  the  written  Gospel. 

*  <f>t\6yriy.    Some  make  it  an  ecclesiastical  vestment. 


5H 


WORKS   OF   ST.   CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  X. 


mean  a  garment,  or,  as  some  say,  a  bag,  in 
which  the  books  were  contained.  But  what  had 
he  to  do  with  books,  who  was  about  to  depart 
and  go  to  God?  He  needed  them  much,  that 
he  might  deposit  them  in  the  hands  of  the  faith- 
ful, who  would  retain  them  in  place  of  his  own 
teaching.  All  the  faithful,  then,  would  suffer  a 
great  blow,  but  particularly  those  who  were 
present  at  his  death,  and  then  enjoyed  his  so- 
ciety. But  the  cloak  he  requires,  that  he  might 
not  be  obliged  to  receive  one  from  another. 
For  we  see  him  making  a  great  point  of  avoid- 
ing this  ;  and  elsewhere,  when  he  was  addressing 
those  from  Ephesus,  he  says,  "Ye  know  that 
these  hands  have  ministered  to  my  necessities, 
and  to  those  that  were  with  me  "  (Acts  xx.  34, 
35)  ;  and  again,  "It  is  more  blessed  to  give 
than  to  receive." 

Ver.  14.  "  Alexander  the  coppersmith  did  me 
much  evil ;  the  Lord  reward  him  according  to 
his  works." 

Here  he  again  makes  mention  of  his  trial,  not 
wishing  merely  to  censure  and  accuse  the  man, 
but  to  prepare  his  disciple  for  the  conflicts,  that 
he  might  bear  them  firmly.  Though  they  be 
mean  and  contemptible  persons,  and  without 
honor,  who  cause  these  trials,  they  ought  all,  he 
says,  to  be  borne  with  fortitude.  For  he  who 
suffers  wrong  from  any  great  personage,  receives 
no  little  distinction  from  the  superiority  of  him 
who  does  the  wrong.  But  he  who  is  injured  by 
a  vile  and  abject  person,  suffers  the  greater  an- 
noyance. "  He  did  me  much  evil,"  he  says, 
that  is,  he  persecuted  me  in  various  ways.  But 
these  things  will  not  go  unpunished !  For  the 
Lord  will  reward  him  according  to  his  works. 
As  he  said  above :  "  What  persecutions  I  en- 
dured, but  out  of  them  all  the  Lord  delivered 
me."  (2  Tim.  iii.  11.)  So  also  here  he  consoles 
his  disciples  by  a  double  consideration,  that  he 
himself  had  suffered  wrong,  and  that  the  other 
would  be  rewarded  for  his  evil  deeds.  Not 
that  the  Saints  rejoice  in  the  punishment  of  their 
persecutors,  but  that  the  cause  of  the  Gospel 
required  it,  and  the  weaker  would  derive  con- 
solation from  it. 

Ver.  15.  "Of  whom  be  thou  ware  also;  for 
he  hath  greatly  withstood  our  words." 

That  is,  he  is  hostile  to  us,  and  opposes  us. 
He  has  not  said,  Revenge,  punish,  expel  him, 
although  by  the  grace  given  him  he  might  have 
so  done,  but  he  does  no  such  thing ;  nor  does 
he  arm  Timothy  against  him,  but  only  commands 
him  to  avoid  him,  leaving  vengeance  to  God, 
and  for  the  consolation  of  the  weaker  he  has 
said  that  He  will  reward  him,  which  is  a  proph- 
ecy rather  than  an  imprecation.  And  that  he 
says  these  things  to  prepare  the  mind  of  his  dis- 
ciple, is  manifest  also  from  what  follows.  But 
see  how  he  mentions  other  of  his  trials. 


Ver.  16.  "At  my  first  answer,"  he  says,  "no 
man  stood  with  me,  but  all  men  forsook  me : 
I  pray  God  that  it  may  not  be  laid  to  their 
charge." 

Do  you  see  how  he  spares  his  friends,  not- 
withstanding it  was  a  grievous  thing  they  had 
done?  For  it  is  not  the  same  thing  to  be 
despised  by  aliens,  as  by  our  own  friends.  Do 
you  see  his  intense  dejection?  It  cannot  be 
said,  that  I  was  assailed  by  those  without,  but 
had  comfort  in  the  attention  and  support  of  my 
friends ;  for  these  also  betrayed  me.  "  All  men," 
he  says,  "  forsook  me."  And  this  was  no  light 
offense.  For  if  he  that  in  war  abandons  one 
who  is  exposed  to  danger,  and  shrinks  from 
meeting  the  hands  of  his  enemies,  is  justly 
smitten  by  his  friends,  as  having  utterly  be- 
trayed their  cause,  much  more  in  the  case  of 
the  Gospel.  But  what  "  first  answer,"  does  he 
speak  of?  He  had  stood  before  Nero,  and  had 
escaped.  But  afterwards,  because  he  had  con- 
verted his  cup-bearer,  he  was  beheaded.  And 
here  again  is  encouragement  for  his  disciple  in 
what  follows. 

Ver.  17.  "Notwithstanding,  the  Lord  stood 
with  me,  and  strengthened  me." 

Though  deserted  by  man,  God  doth  not  per- 
mit him  to  suffer  any  harm.  He  strengthened 
me,  he  says,  that  is,  He  gave  me  boldness  in 
speaking.  .  He  suffered  me  not  to  sink. 

"That  by  me  the  preaching  might  be  fully 
known." 

That  is,  might  be  fulfilled.  Observe  his  great 
humility.  He  does  not  say  He  strengthened 
me  as  deserving  of  His  gift,  but  that  "the 
preaching,"  with  which  I  was  intrusted,  "  might 
be  fully  known."  As  if  any  one  should  wear  a 
purple  robe  and  a  diadem,  and  to  that  circum- 
stance should  owe  his  safety. 

"  And  that  all  the  Gentiles  might  hear." 

What  is  this  ?  That  the  luster  of  the  Gospel, 
and  the  care  of  His  Providence  for  me,  might 
be  known  to  all. 

"  And  I  was  delivered  out  of  the  mouth  of 
the  lion." 

Ver.  18.  "And  the  Lord  shall  deliver  me 
from  every  evil  work." 

See  how  near  he  had  been  to  death.  He 
had  fallen  into  the  very  jaws  of  the  lion.  For 
he  calls  Nero  a  lion  from  his  ferocity,  and  the 
violent  and  daring  character  of  his  government. 
"  The  Lord  delivered  me,"  he  says,  "  and  will 
deliver."  But  if  he  says,  "  He  will  deliver  me," 
why  does  he  say,  "  I  am  ready  to  be  offered"? 
Attend  to  the  expression,  "  He  delivered  me,M 
he  says,  "  from  the  lion's  mouth  " ;  and  again, 
"  He  will  deliver  me,"  not  from  the  lion's  mouth, 
but  "  from  every  evil  work."  For  then  He  de- 
livered me  from  the  danger ;  but  now  that  enough 
has  been  done  for  the  Gospel,  He  will  yet  again 


Homily  X.] 


HOMILIES   ON   TIMOTHY. 


515 


deliver  me  from  every  sin,  that  is,  He  will  not 
suffer  me  to  depart  with  condemnation.  For 
that  he  should  be  able  to  "resist  unto  blood 
striving  against  sin  "  (Heb.  xii.  4),  and  not  yield, 
is  a  deliverance  from  another  lion,  even  the 
devil,  so  that  this  preservation  is  greater  than 
the  former,  when  he  seems  to  be  given  up. 

"And  will  preserve  me  unto  His  heavenly 
kingdom ;  to  Whom  be  glory  for  ever  and  ever. 
Amen." 

This  then  is  salvation,  when  we  shine  forth 
there.  But  what  means,  "  He  will  preserve  me 
unto  His  kingdom  "  ?  He  will  deliver  me  from 
all  blame,  and  preserve  me  there.  For  this  is 
to  be  preserved  unto  His  kingdom,  to  die  here 
on  account  of  it.  For  "  He  that  hateth  his  life 
in  this  world  shall  keep  it  unto  life  eternal.,, 
(John  xii.  25.) 

"  To  whom  be  glory."  Lo,  here  is  a  doxology 
to  the  Son. 

Ver.  19.  "  Salute  Priscilla  and  Aquila,  and  the 
household  of  Onesiphorus." 

For  he  was  then  in  Rome,  of  whom  he  said 
"The  Lord  grant  unto  him  that  he  may  find 
mercy  of  the  Lord  in  that  day."  (2  Tim.  i.  18.) 
By  this  naming  of  him,  he  makes  those  of  his 
household  also  more  zealous  in  such  good 
actions. 

"Salute  Priscilla  and  Aquila."  These  are 
they  of  whom  he  makes  continual  mention,  with 
whom  too  he  had  lodged,  and  who  had  taken 
Apollos  to  them.  He  names  the  woman  first, 
as  being  I  suppose  more  zealous,  and  more 
faithful,  for  she  had  then  received  Apollos ;  or 
it  might  be  done  indifferently.  And  it  was  to 
them  no  slight  consolation  to  be  thus  saluted.1 
It  conveyed  a  demonstration  of  esteem  and 
love,  and  a  participation  in  much  grace.  For 
the  bare  salutation  of  that  holy  and  blessed 
man  was  sufficient  to  fill  with  grace  him  who 
received  it. 

Ver.  20.  "  Erastus  abode  at  Corinth :  but 
Trophimus  have  I  left  at  Miletum  sick." 

This  Trophimus  and  Tychicus,  we  know  from 
the  book  of  the  Acts,  sailed  away  with  him  from 
Judea,  and  were  everywhere  his  companions, 
perhaps  as  being  more  zealous  than  the  rest. 

"Trophimus  I  have  left  at  Miletum  sick." 
Why  then  didst  thou  not  heal  him,  instead  of 
leaving  him  ?  The  Apostles  could  not  do  every- 
thing, or  they  did  not  dispense  miraculous  gifts 
upon  all  occasions,  lest  more  should  be  ascribed 
to  them  than  was  right.  The  same  thing  is  ob- 
servable of  those  blessed  and  righteous  men, 
who  were  before  them,  as  in  the  case  of  Moses, 
whose  voice  was  weak.  Why  was  not  this  de- 
fect removed  ?  Nay,  he  was  often  afflicted  with 
grief  and  dejection,  and  he  was  not  admitted 
into  the  Land  of  Promise. 

*  B.  9po<rpn^atit  as  had  been  before  conjectured. 


For  many  things  were  permitted  by  God,  that 
the  weakness  of  human  nature  might  be  mani- 
fested. And  if  with  these  defects  the  insensible 
Jews  could  ask,  Where  is  Moses  who  brought  us 
out  of  the  land  of  Egypt  (Ex.  xxxii.  1 )  ?  how 
would  they  not  have  been  affected  towards  him 
if  he  had  brought  them  also  into  the  Land  of 
Promise?  If  he  had  not  been  suffered  to  be 
overpowered  by  the  fear  of  Pharaoh,  would  they 
not  have  thought  him  a  God  ?  We  see  that  the 
people  of  Lystra  were  thus  affected  in  the  case 
of  Paul  and  Barnabas,  thinking  them  to  be  Gods, 
when  they  rent  their  clothes,  and  ran  in  among 
the  people,  crying  out  and  saying,  "  Sirs,  why  do 
ye  these  things  ?  we  also  are  men  of  like  passions 
with  you."  (Acts  xiv.  14,  15.)  Peter,  again, 
when  he  had  healed  the  man  lame  from  his 
birth,  when  all  were  amazed  at  the  miracle, 
answered  and  said,  "Ye  men  of  Israel,  why 
marvel  ye  at  this,  or  why  look  ye  so  earnestly 
on  us,  as  though  by  our  own  power  or  holiness 
we  had  made  this  man  to  walk  "  ?  (Acts  iii.  12.) 
Hear  also  the  blessed  Paul,  saying,  "  There  was 
given  to  me  a  thorn  in  the  flesh,  lest  I  should 
be  exalted  above  measure."  (2  Cor.  xii.  7.) 
But  this,  you  say,  was  an  expression  of  humility. 
Far  from  it.  The  thorn  was  not  sent  him  that 
he  might  be  humble,  nor  does  he  say  this  only 
out  of  humility.  There  are  other  causes  besides 
to  be  assigned  for  it.  Observe  therefore  how 
God,  accounting  for  it,  says,  "  My  grace  is  suf- 
ficient for  thee  "  ;  not  "  that  thou  may  est  not 
be  exalted  above  measure,"  but  what?  "For 
my  strength  is  made  perfect  in  weakness."  Two 
ends  therefore  were  answered  at  once  :  what  was 
doing  was  made  clearly  manifest,  and  the  whole 
was  ascribed  to  God.  For  this  cause  he  has 
said  elsewhere,  "We  carry  this  treasure  in 
earthen  vessels"  (2  Cor.  iv.  7);  that  is,  in 
bodies  weak  and  liable  to  suffering.  Why? 
"  That  the  excellency  of  the  power  may  be  of 
God,  and  not  of  us."  If  our  bodies  were  not 
subject  to  infirmity,  all  would  be  ascribed  to 
them.  And  elsewhere  we  see  him  grieving  at 
the  infirmity  of  Epaphroditus,  concerning  whom 
he  writes,  "  He  was  sick  nigh  unto  death,  but 
God  had  mercy  on  him."  (Phil.  ii.  27.)  And 
many  other  instances  there  are  of  his  ignorance 
of  events,  which  was  profitable  both  for  him  and 
his  disciples. 

"  Trophimus  I  have  left  at  Miletum  sick." 
Miletus  was  near  Ephesus.  Did  this  happen 
then  when  he  sailed  to  Judea,  or  upon  some 
other  occasion?  For  after  he  had  been  in 
Rome,  he  returned  to  Spain,  but  whether  he 
came  thence  again  into  these  parts,  we  know 
not.2  We  see  him  however  deserted  by  all.  "  For 
Demas,"  he  says,  "  hath  forsaken  me.     Crescens 

*  This  is,  however,  a  strong  presumption  that  he  did.  See  p. 
476,  note. 


5l6 


WORKS   OF  ST.   CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  X. 


is  departed  into  Galatia,  Titus  to  Dalmatia. 
Erastus  abode  at  Corinth.  Trophimus  have  I 
left  at  Miletum  sick." 

Ver.  21.  "Do  thy  diligence  to  come  before 
winter.  Eubulus  greeteth  thee,  and  Pudens, 
and  Linus,  and  Claudia." 

This  Linus,  some  say,  was  second !  Bishop  of 
the  Church  of  Rome  after  Peter.  "And  Clau- 
dia." You  see  how  zealous  for  the  faith  the 
women  were,  how  ardent !  Such  was  Priscilla 
and  this  Claudia,  already  crucified,  already  pre- 
pared for  the  battle  !  But  why,  when  there 
were  so  many  faithful,  does  he  mention  only 
these  women  ?  Manifestly  because  they  in  pur- 
pose had  already  withdrawn  from  worldly  affairs, 
and  were  illustrious  above  others.  For  a  woman, 
as  such,  meets  not  with  any  impediments.  It 
is  the  work  of  divine  grace,  that  this  sex  should 
be  impeded  only  in  the  affairs  of  this  life,  or 
rather  not  even  in  them.  For  a  woman  under- 
takes no  small  share  of  the  whole  administration, 
being  the  keeper  of  the  house.  And  without 
her  not  even  political  affairs  could  be  properly 
conducted.  For  if  their  domestic  concerns 
were  in  a  state  of  confusion  and  disorder,  those 
who  are  engaged  in  public  affairs  would  be  kept 
at  home,  and  political  business  would  be  ill 
managed.  So  that  neither  in  those  matters,  as 
neither  in  spiritual,  is  she  inferior.  For  she  is 
able,  if  so  inclined,  to  endure  a  thousand  deaths. 
Accordingly  many  women  have  suffered  martyr- 
dom. She  is  able  to  practice  chastity  even  more 
than  men,  no  such  strong  flame  disturbing  her ; 
and  to  show  forth  modesty  and  gravity,  and 
"  holiness,  without  which  no  one  shall  see  the 
Lord"  (Heb.  xii.  14)  ;  and  contempt  of  wealth, 
if  she  will,  and  in  short  all  other  virtues. 

"  Do  thy  diligence  to  come  before  winter." 
See  how  he  urges  him,  yet  he  does  not  say  any- 
thing to  grieve  him.  He  does  not  say,  "  Before 
I  die,"  lest  he  should  afflict  him ;  but,  "  Before 
winter,"  that  thou  be  not  detained. 

"  Eubulus,"  he  says,  "  greeteth  thee,  and  Pu- 
dens, and  Linus,  and  Claudia,  and  all  the  breth- 
ren." He  does  not  mention  the  rest  by  name. 
Seest  thou  that  those  were  the  most  zealous? 

Ver.  22.  "The  Lord  Jesus  Christ  be  with  thy 
spirit." 

There  can  be  no  better  prayer  than  this. 
Grieve  not  for  my  departure.  The  Lord  will 
be  with  thee.  And  he  says,  not  "with  thee," 
but  "  with  thy  spirit."  Thus  there  is  a  twofold 
assistance,  the  grace  of  the  Spirit,2  and  God 
helping  it.  And  otherwise  God  will  not  be 
with  us,  if  we  have  not  spiritual  grace.     For  if 

1  i.e.  the  next.  See  Euseb.  iii.  2,  and  note  in  Reading's  Ed.; 
also  Cave  Hist.  Lit.  Linus  is  thought  not  to  have  survived  the  per- 
secution of  Nero,  and  probably  to  have  been  Bishop  in  St.  Peter's 
lifetime,  and  supplied  his  place  when  absent. 

3  i.e.  the  original  Gift,  without  which  he  had  been  but  a  carnal 
person. 


we  be  deserted  by  grace,  how  shall  He  be  with 
us? 

"  Grace  be  with  us.     Amen." 

Thus  he  prays  for  himself  too,  that  they  may 
always  be  well-pleasing  to  Him,  that  they  may 
have  grace  together  with  the  spiritual  gift,  for 
where  this  is,  nothing  will  be  grievous.  For  as 
he  who  beholds  the  king,  and  is  in  favor  with 
him,  is  sensible  of  no  uneasiness ;  so  though  our 
friends  forsake  us,  though  we  be  overtaken  by 
calamity,  we  shall  feel  no  distress,  if  that  grace 
be  with  us  and  fortify  us. 

Moral.  But  how  shall  we  draw  down  grace 
upon  us?  By  doing  what  is  pleasing  to  God, 
and  obeying  Him  in  all  things.  In  great  houses 
do  we  not  see  those  domestics  in  favor,  who  do 
not  regard  their  own  interest,  but  with  all  zeal 
and  alacrity  promote  their  masters',  and  who 
not  from  the  compulsion  of  the  master,  but 
from  their  own  affection  and  good  disposition, 
order  all  things  well.  When  they  are  always 
before  their  eyes,  when  they  are  engaged  in  the 
house,  when  they  are  not  occupied  in  any  pri- 
vate concerns,  nor  caring  for  their  own,  but 
rather  consider  their  masters'  concerns  as  their 
own.  For  he  who  makes  what  is  his  own  his 
master's,  does  not  really  give  up  his  own  to  his 
master,  but  makes  his  interest  his  own ;  he  com- 
mands even  as  himself  in  his  affairs,3  and  rules 
equally  with  him.  He  is  often  as  much  feared 
by  the  domestics,  and  whatever  he  says  his 
master  says  too,  and  he  is  henceforth  dreaded 
by  all  his  enemies. 

And  if  he  who  in  worldly  concerns  prefers  his 
master's  interests  to  his  own,  does  not  really 
neglect  his  own  interest,  but  rather  advance  it 
the  more  ;  much  more  is  this  the  case  in  spiritual 
matters.  Despise  thine  own  concerns,  and  thou 
wilt  receive  those  of  God.  This  He  Himself 
wills.  Despise  earth,  and  seize  upon  the  king- 
dom of  heaven.  Dwell  there,  not  here.  Be 
formidable  there,  not  here.  If  thou  art  formi- 
dable there,  thou  wilt  be  formidable  not  to  men, 
but  to  demons,  and  even  to  the  devil  himself. 
But  if  thy  dependence  is  on  worldly  wealth, 
thou  wilt  be  contemptible  to  them,  and  often 
to  men  too.  Whatever  be  thy  riches,  thou 
wilt  be  rich  in  servile  things.  But  if  thou  de- 
spisest  these,  thou  wilt  be  radiant  in  the  house 
of  the  King. 

Such  were  the  Apostles,  despising  a  servile 
house  and  worldly  wealth  !  And  see  how  they 
commanded  in  the  affairs  of  their  Master.  "  Let 
one,"  they  said,  "be  delivered  from  disease,  an- 
other from  the  possession  of  devils :  bind  this 
man,  and  loose  that."  This  was  done  by  them 
on  earth,  but  it  was  fulfilled  as  in  Heaven.  For, 
"whatever  ye  shall  bind  on  earth,"  said  He, 

9  See  Gen.  xl.  41  23. 


Homily  X.] 


HOMILIES   ON   TIMOTHY. 


517 


"shall  be  bound  in  Heaven."  (Matt,  xviii.  18.) 
And  greater  power  than  His  own  did  He  give 
them.  And  that  I  lie  not,  appears  from  His 
own  words.  "  He  that  believeth  in  Me,  greater 
works  shall  he  do  than  these  which  I  do." 
CJohn  xiv.  12.)  Why  so?  Because  this  honor 
is  reflected  upon  the  Master.1  As  in  our  own 
affairs,  if  the  servant  has  great  power,  the  master 
is  the  more  admired,  for  if  the  servant  is  so 
powerful,  much  more  is  he  who  commands  him. 
But  if  any  man,  neglecting  his  master's  service 
thinks  only  of  his  wife,  his  son,  or  his  servant, 
and  seeks  to  be  rich,  and  to  lay  up  treasure 
there,  by  stealing  and  robbing  his  master  of  his 
possessions,  he  is  presently  ruined,  and  his 
wealth  perishes  with  him. 

Wherefore  having  these  examples,  I  beseech 
you,  let  us  not  regard  our  possessions,  that  we 
may  regard  ourselves  :  nay,  let  us  despise  them, 
that  we  may  obtain  them.  If  we  despise  them, 
He  will  take  care  of  thern^  if  we  take  care  of 
them,  God  will  despise  them.  Let  us  labor  in 
the  concerns  of  God,  not  in  our  own,  or  rather 
really  in  our  own,  for  His  are  our  own.  I  speak 
not  of  heaven,2  nor  of  earth,  nor  of  the  things  of 
this  world  :  these  are  unworthy  of  Him.  And 
they  belong  alike  to  the  faithful  and  the  unbe- 
lievers. What  then  do  I  speak  of  as  His?  His 
glory  and  His  kingdom.  These  are  His,  and 
ours  for  His  sake.  How  ?  "  If  we  be  dead 
with  Him,"  He  says,  "we  shall  also  live  with 
Him.  If  we  suffer,  we  shall  also  reign  with 
Him."  (2  Tim.  ii.  n.)  We  are  become  "  joint 
heirs,"  and  are  called  His  "  brethren."  Why  do 
we  sink  below,  when  He  is  drawing  us  upward 
towards  Himself?  How  long  shall  we  be  poor, 
and  beggarly  ?  Heaven  is  set  before  us ;  and 
do  we  linger  on  earth  ?  Is  His  kingdom  opened 
to  us,  and  do  we  choose  such  poverty  as  is 
here?  Is  life  immortal  offered  us,  and  do  we 
spend  ourselves  for  lands,  for  wood  and  stones  ? 
Be  truly  rich.  I  would  wish  thee  to  be  so.  Be 
covetous  and  rapacious,  I  blame  thee  not  for  it. 
Here  it  is  a  fault  not  to  be  covetous,  here  it  is 
blameworthy  not  to  be  grasping.  What  then  is 
this  ?  "  The  kingdom  of  Heaven  suffereth  vio- 
lence, and  the  violent  take  it  by  force."  (Matt, 
xi.  12.)  There  be  thou  violent !  be  grasping! 
It  is  not  diminished  by  being  seized  upon.  For 
neither  is  virtue  divided,  nor  piety  lessened,  nor 
the  kingdom  of  Heaven.  Virtue  is  increased 
when  thou  seizest  upon  it,  whilst  temporal  goods 
are  lessened  when  they  are  seized  upon.  And 
this  appears  from  hence :  Let  there  be  ten 
thousand  men  in  a  city ;  if  all  seize  on  virtue,  it 
is  multiplied,  for  they  become  righteous  in  ten 


1  See  Acts  iv.  1a,  13 ;  v.  4.    The  power  of  our  Lord,  after  He 
had  received  His  kingdom,  was  exercised  through  them. 
*  i.e.  the  material  heaven. 


thousand  things.8  If  no  one  seizes  upon  it,  it  is 
diminished,  for  it  is  nowhere  to  be  found. 

Thou  seest  then  that  good  things  are  multi- 
plied on  being  possessed  by  many,  but  earthly 
goods  are  rather  diminished  by  seizing.  Let  us 
not  therefore  sit  down  content  with  poverty,  but 
let  us  choose  riches.  God  is  then  rich,  when 
those  who  enjoy  His  kingdom  are  many.  "  For 
He  is  rich,"  it  is  said,  "  unto  all  that  call  upon 
Him."  (Rom.  x.  12.)  Increase  then  His  sub- 
stance ;  and  thou  wilt  increase  it  by  taking  pos- 
session of  it,  by  being  covetous  of  it,  by  violently 
seizing  it.  And  truly  there  is  need  of  violence. 
Wherefore?  Because  there  are  so  many  im- 
pediments, as  wives  and  children,  cares  and 
worldly  business ;  besides  those  demons,  and 
him  who  is  the  ruler  of  them,  the  devil.  There 
is  need  then  of  violence,  there  is  need  of  forti- 
tude. He  who  takes  by  violence  is  exposed  to 
toils.  How?  He  endures  all  things,  he  con- 
tends against  necessities.  How?  He  almost 
attempts  impossibilities.  If  such  are  those  who 
take  by  violence,  and  we  shrink  from  attempting 
even  what  is  possible,  how  shall  we  ever  win  ? 
or  when  shall  we  enjoy  the  things  for  which  we 
strive?  "The  violent,"  it  is  said,  "take"  the 
kingdom  of  heaven  "  by  force."  Violence  and 
rapacity  are  needed.  For  it  is  not  simply  set 
before  us,  and  ready  to  our  hands.  He  who 
seizes  by  violence,  is  ever  sober  and  watchful, 
he  is  anxious  and  thoughtful,  that  he  may  make 
his  seizure  at  a  seasonable  time.  Dost  thou  not 
see  that  in  war  he  who  is  about  to  make  a  seizure 
keeps  watch  and  is  under  arms  the  whole  night  ? 
If  then  they  who  aim  at  seizing  upon  worldly 
goods,  watch  and  are  armed  all  the  night  long, 
should  we,  who  wish  to  seize  upon  spiritual 
things,  sleep  and  snore  in  the  day,  anda  continue 
always  naked  and  unarmed?  For  he  who  is 
engaged  in  sin  is  unarmed  ;  as  he  who  practices 
righteousness  is  armed.  We  do  not  fortify  our- 
selves with  almsgiving.  We  do  not  prepare  for 
ourselves  lamps  that  are  burning,  we  do  not  fence 
ourselves  in  spiritual  armor.  We  do  not  learn 
the  way  that  leads  thither.  We  are  not  sober 
and  watchful,  and  therefore  we  can  seize  no 
spoil. 

If  a  man  wishes  to  make  an  attempt  on  a 
kingdom,  does  he  not  set  death  before  him  in 
a  thousand  shapes?  Is  he  not  armed  at  all 
points,  does  he  not  practice  the  art  of  war,  does 
he  not  do  everything  with  this  view,  and  so  rush 
on  to  the  attack  ?  But  we  do  not  act  thus.  We 
wish  to  take  the  spoil  while  we  are  sleeping,  and 
therefore  we  come  off  with  empty  hands.  Dost 
thou  not  see  plunderers,  how  they  flee,  how 

*  Lit.  "they  become  righteous  in  ten  thousand";  but  the  true 
reading  is  perhaps  iv  yap  rote  /uupiotc  yCvtrai  5c.*aioif ,  "  for  it  is 
formed  in  ten  thousand  righteous  men,**  as  has  been  conjectured 
from  an  Old  Lat. 


5i8 


WORKS   OF   ST.    CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  X. 


rapidly  they  move?  how  they  force  their  way 
through  everything?  And  there  is  need  of 
expedition  here.  The  devil  is  in  pursuit  of  thee. 
He  orders  those  before  to  detain  thee.  But  if 
thou  art  strong,  if.  thou  art  watchful,  thou  wilt 
spurn  one,  and  thrust  aside  another,  and  escape 
from  ail,  as  a  bird.  Yea,  if  thou  depart  hence, 
if  thou  escape  from  the  market  and  the  tumult, 
I  mean  this  life,  and  arrive  at  those  higher 
regions  beyond  these,  in  the  world  to  come. 
For  there,  as  in  a  solitude,  there  is  no  tumult, 
no  one  to  disturb,  or  to  stay  thy  course. 

Hast  thou  seized?  Yet  a  little  exertion  is 
needed  after  the  seizure,  that  what  thou  hast 
seized  may  not  be  taken  from  thee.  If  we  run 
on,  if  we  look  to  none  of  those  things  that 
are  set  before  our  eyes,  if  we  consider  nothing 
but  how  we  may  escape  from  those  who  would 


hinder  us,  we  shall  be  able  to  retain  with  all 
security  what  we  have  seized.  Hast  thou  seized 
on  chastity  ?  Tarry  not ;  flee  beyond  the  reach 
of  the  devil.  If  he  sees  that  he  cannot  overtake 
thee,  he  will  cease  to  pursue ;  as  we,  when  we 
can  no  longer  see  those  who  have  robbed  us, 
despair  of  the  pursuit,  and  do  not  pursue,  nor 
call  on  others  to  stop  thief,  but  suffer  them  to 
escape.  So  do  thou  run  vigorously  at  the 
beginning,  and  when  thou  art  beyond  the  reach 
of  the  devil,  he  will  not  afterwards  attack  thee, 
but  thou  wilt  be  in  safety,  securely  enjoying  those 
unspeakable  blessings,  which  God  grant  that  we 
may  all  obtain  through  Jesus  Christ  our  Lord. 
To  whom  with  the  Father,  and  the  Holy  Ghost, 
be  glory,  power,  honor,  and  worship,  now  and 
for  ever,  and  world  without  end.     Amen. 


HOMILIES  OF  ST.  JOHN  CHRYSOSTOM, 

ARCHBISHOP  OF  CONSTANTINOPLE, 


ON    THE 


EPISTLE   OF   ST.    PAUL   THE   APOSTLE 


TO 


TITUS. 


HOMILY    I. 


Trrus  i.  1-4. 


"  Paul,  a  servant  of  God,  and  an  Apostle  of  Jesus  Christ, 
according  to  the  faith  of  God's  elect,  and  the  ac- 
knowledging of  the  truth  which  is  after  godliness; 
In  hope  of  eternal  life,  which  God,  that  cannot  lie, 
promised  before  the  world  began ;  But  hath  in  due 
times  manifested  His  word  through  preaching,  which 
is  committed  unto  me  according  to  the  command- 
ment of  God  our  Saviour;  To  Titus,  mine  own  son 
after  the  common  faith;  Grace,  mercy,  and  peace, 
from  God  the  Father,  and  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  our 


Sa 


viour. 


Trrus  was  an  approved  one  of  the  companions 
of  Paul ;  otherwise,  he  would  not  have  com- 
mitted to  him  the  charge  of  that  whole  island, 
nor  would  he  have  commanded  him  to  supply 
what  was  deficient,  as  he  says,  "  That  thou 
shouldest  set  in  order  the  things  that  are  want- 
ing." (Ver.  5.)  He  would  not  have  given  him 
jurisdiction  over  so  many  Bishops,  if  he  had  not 
placed  great  confidence  in  him.  They  say  that 
he  also  was  a  young  man,  because  he  calls  him 
his  son,  though  this  does  not  prove  it.  I  think 
that  there  is  mention  made  of  him  in  the  Acts.1 
Perhaps  he  was  a  Corinthian,  unless  there  was 
some  other  of  the  same  name.  And  he  sum- 
mons Zenas,  and  orders  Apollos  to  be  sent  to 
him,  never  Titus.     (Tit.  iii.  13.)     For  he  also 

1  In  the  Vulgate,  Acts  xviii.  j,  there  is  mention  of  "  Titus,  sur- 
named  Justus,"  at  Corinth,  ana  a  few  MSS.  have  the  name.  In 
the  Synac,  which  St.  Chrysostom  might  know,  "  Titus  "  stands  for 
0  Justus."    [W.  and  Hon.  read:  Ttn'ov  'lovvrov.  —  P.  S.] 


attests  their  superior  virtue  and  courage  in  the 
presence  of  the  Emperor. 

Some  time  seems  to  have  since  elapsed,  and 
Paul,  when  he  wrote  this  Epistle,  appears  to 
have  been  at  liberty.  For  he  says  nothing  about 
his  trials,  but  dwells  continually  upon  the  grace 
of  God,  as  being  a  sufficient  encouragement  to 
believers  to  persevere  in  virtue.  For  to  learn 
what  they  had  deserved,  and  to  what  state  they 
had  been  transferred,  and  that  by  grace,  and 
what  had  been  vouchsafed  them,  was  no  little 
encouragement.  He  takes  aim  also  against  the 
Jews,  and  if  he  censures  the  whole  nation,  we 
need  not  wonder,  for  he  does  the  same  in  the 
case  of  the  Galatians,  saying,  "  O  foolish  Gala- 
tians."  (Gal.  iii.  1.)  And  this  does  not  proceed 
from  a  censorious  temper,  but  from  affection. 
For  if  it  were  done  for  his  own  sake,  one  might 
fairly  blame  him  ;  but  if  from  the  fervor  of  his 
zeal  for  the  Gospel,  it  was  not  done  reproach- 
fully. Christ  too,  on  many  occasions,  reproached 
the  Scribes  and  Pharisees,  not  on  his  own  ac- 
count, but  because  they  were  the  ruin  of  all  the 
rest. 

And  he  writes  a  short  Epistle,  with  good 
reason,  and  this  is  a  proof  of  the  virtue  of  Titus, 
that  he  did  not  require  many  words,  but  a  short 
remembrance.  But  this  Epistle  seems  to  have 
been  written  before  that  to  Timothy,  for  that  he 


520 


WORKS  OF   ST.   CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  L 


wrote  as  near  his  end  and  in  prison,  but  here, 
as  free  and  at  liberty.  For  his  saying,  "  I  have 
determined  to  winter  at  Nicopolis"  (Tit.  Hi.  12), 
is  a  proof  that  he  was  not  yet  in  bonds,  as  when 
he  wrote  to  Timothy. 

Ver.  1.  "  Paul,  a  servant  of  God,  and  an 
Apostle  of  Jesus  Christ,  according  to  the  faith 
of  God's  elect." 

You  observe  how  he  uses  these  expressions 
indifferently,  sometimes  calling  himself  the 
"  servant  of  God,"  and  sometimes  the  "  servant 
of  Christ,"  thus  making  no  difference  between 
the  Father  and  the  Son. 

"  According  to  the  faith  of  God's  elect,  and. 
the  acknowledging  of  the  truth  which  is  after 
godliness.     In  hope  of  eternal  life." 

"  According  to  the  faith  of  God's  elect."  It 
is  because  thou  hast  believed,  or  rather  because 
thou  wast  intrusted  ?  I  think  he  meant,  that  he 
was  intrusted  with  God's  elect,  that  is,  not  for 
any  achievements  of  mine,  nor  from  my  toils 
and  labors,  did  I  receive  this  dignity.  It  was 
wholly  the  effect  of  His  goodness  who  intrusted 
me.  Yet  that  the  grace  may  not  seem  without 
reason,  (for  still  the  whole  was  not  of  Him,  for 
why  did  He  not  intrust  it  to  others  ?)  he  there- 
fore adds,  "  And  the  acknowledging  of  the  truth 
that  is  after  godliness."  For  it  was  for  this  ac- 
knowledgment that  I  was  intrusted,  or  rather 
it  was  of  His  grace  that  this  too  was  intrusted 
to  me,  for  He  was  the  author  of  this  also. 
Whence  Christ  Himself  said,  "Ye  have  not 
chosen  Me,  but  I  have  chosen  you."  (John  xv. 
16.)  And  elsewhere  this  same  blessed  one 
writes,  "  I  shall  know,  even  as  also  I  am  known." 
(1  Cor.  xiii.  12.)  And  again,  "  If  I  may  appre- 
hend that,  for  which  also  I  am  apprehended  of 
Christ  Jesus."  (Phil.  iii.  12.)  First  we  are  ap- 
prehended, and  afterwards  we  know :  first  we 
are  known,  and  then  we  apprehend : *  first  we 
were  called,  and  then  we  obeyed.  But  in  say- 
ing, "  according  to  the  faith  of  the  elect,"  all  is 
reckoned  to  them,  because  on  their  account  I 
am  an  Apostle,  not  for  my  worthiness,  but  "  for 
the  elect's  sake."  As  he  elsewhere  says,  "All 
things  are  yours,  whether  Paul,  or  Apollos." 
(1  Cor.  iii.  21.) 

"And  the  acknowledging  the  truth  that  is 
after  godliness."  For  there  is  a  truth  in  other 
things,  that  is  not  according  to  godliness ;  for 
knowledge  in  matters  of  agriculture,  knowledge 
of  the  arts,  is  true  knowledge ;  but  this  truth  is 
after  godliness.  Or  this,  "  according  to  faith," 
means  that  they  believed,  as  the  other  elect  be- 
lieved, and  acknowledged  the  truth.  This  ac- 
knowledging then  is  from  faith,  and  not  from 
reasonings. 

"  In  hope  of  eternal  life."    He  spoke  of  the 

1  al.  "  first  we  are  apprehended,  and  afterwards  we  apprehend; 
first  we  are  known,  and  then  we  know." 


present  life,  which  is  in  the  grace  of  God,  and  he 
also  speaks  of  the  future,  and  sets  before  us  the 
rewards  that  follow  the  mercies  which  God  has 
bestowed  upon  us.  For  He  is  willing  to  crown 
us  because  we  have  believed,  and  have  been  de- 
livered from  error.  Observe  how  the  introduc- 
tion is  full  of  the  mercies  of  God,  and  this 
whole  Epistle  is  especially  of  the  same  char- 
acter, thus  exciting  the  holy  man  himself,  and 
his  disciples  also,  to  greater  exertions.  For 
nothing  profits  us  so  much  as  constantly  to 
remember  the  mercies  of  God,  whether  public 
or  private.  And  if  our  hearts  are  warmed  when 
we  receive  the  favors  of  our  friends,  or  hear 
some  kind  word  or  deed  of  theirs,  much  more 
shall  we  be  zealous  in  His  service  when  we  see 
into  what  dangers  we  had  fallen,  and  that  God 
has  delivered  us  from  them  all. 

"  And  the  acknowledging  of  the  truth."  This 
he  says  with  reference  to  the  type.  For  that 
was  an  "acknowledging"  and  a  "godliness," 
yet  not  of  the  Truth,2  yet  neither  was  it  false- 
hood, it  was  godliness,  but  it  was  in  type  and 
figure.  And  he  has  well  said,  "  In  hope  of  eter- 
nal life."  For  the  former  was  in  hope  of  the 
present  life.  For  it  is  said,  "he  that  doeth 
these  things  shall  live  in  them."  (Rom.  x.  5.) 
You  see  how  at  the  beginning  he  sets  forth  the 
difference  of  grace.  They  are  not  the  elect,  but 
we.  For  if  they  were  once  called  the  elect,  yet 
are  they  no  longer  called  so. 

Ver.  2.  "Which  God,  that  cannot  lie,  prom- 
ised before  the  world  began." 

That  is,  not  now  upon  a  change  of  mind,  but 
from  the  beginning  it  was  so  foreordained.  This 
he  often  asserts,  as  when  he  says,  "Separated 
unto  the  Gospel  of  God."  (Rom.  i.  1.)  And 
again,  "  Whom  He  did  foreknow,  He  also  did 
predestinate."  (Rom.  viii.  29.)  Thus  showing 
our  high  origin,  in  that  He  did  not  love  us  now- 
first,  but  from  the  beginning :  and  it  is  no  little 
matter  to  be  loved  of  old,  and  from  the  begin- 
ning. 

"Which  God,  that  cannot  lie,  promised." 
If  He  "  cannot  lie,"  what  He  has  promised  will 
assuredly  be  fulfilled.  If  He  "  cannot  lie,"  we 
ought  not  to  doubt  it,  though  it  be  after  death. 
"  Which  God,  that  cannot  lie,"  he  says,  "  prom- 
ised before  the  world  began";  by  this  also, 
"  before  the  world  began,"  he  shows  that  it  is 
worthy  of  our  belief.  It  is  not  because  the  Jews 
have  not  come  in,  that  these  things  are  prom- 
ised. It  had  been  so  planned  from  the  first 
Hear  therefore  what  he  says, 

"  But  hath  in  His  own 3  times  manifested." 

Wherefore  then  was  the  delay?     From  His 

*  Thus  our  Lord,  speaking  as  a  Jew,  said  (John  iv.  aa),  "We 
know  what  we  worship";  and  yet  v.  93,  "  The  hour  cometh,  and 
now  is,  when  the  true  worshipers  shall  worship  the  Father  in  spire 
and  in  truth." 

3  Or,  "  its  own,"  Mow,  E.  V.  "  due." 


Homily  I.] 


HOMILIES   ON   TITUS. 


521 


concern  for  men,  and  that  it  might  be  done  at 
a  seasonable  time.  "  It  is  time  for  Thee,  Lord, 
to  work"  (Ps.  cxix.  125),  says  the  Prophet. 
For  by  "  His  own1  times  "  is  meant  the  suitable 
times,  the  due,  the  fitting. 

Ver.  3.  "  But  hath  in  due  times  manifested 
His  word  through  preaching,  which  is  com- 
mitted unto  me." 

That  is,  the  preaching  is  committed  unto  me. 
For  this  included  everything,  the  Gospel,  and 
things  present,  and  things  future,  life,  and  godli- 
ness, and  faith,  and  all  things  at  once.  "Through 
preaching,"  that  is,  openly  and  with  all  boldness, 
for  this  is  the  meaning  of  "  preaching."  For  as 
a  herald  proclaims 2  in  the  theater  in  the  pres- 
ence of  all,  so  also  we  preach,  adding  nothing, 
but  declaring  the  things  which  we  have  heard. 
For  the  excellence  of  a  herald  consists  in  pro- 
claiming to  all  what  has  really  happened,  not 
in  adding  or  taking  away  anything.  If  therefore 
it  is  necessary  to  preach,  it  is  necessary  to  do 
it  with  boldness  of  speech.  Otherwise,  it  is  not 
preaching.  On  this  account  Christ  did  not  say, 
Tell  it  "  upon  the  housetops,"  but "  preach  upon 
the  housetops  "  (Matt.  x.  27)  ;  showing  both  by 
the  place  and  by  the  manner  what  was  to  be 
done. 

"  Which  is  committed  unto  me  according  to 
the  commandment  of  God  our  Saviour." 

The  expressions,  "  committed  unto  me,"  and 
"according  to  the  commandment,"  show  the 
matter  to  be  worthy  of  credit,  so  that  no  one 
should  think  it  discreditable,  nor  be  hesitating 
about  it,  or  discontented.  If  then  it  is  a  com- 
mandment, it  is  not  at  my  disposal.  I  fulfill 
what  is  commanded.  For  of  things  to  be  done, 
some  are  in  our  power,  others  are  not.  For 
what  He  commands,  that  is  not  in  our  power, 
what  He  permits,  is  left  to  our  choice.  For 
instance,  "  Whosoever  shall  say  to  his  brother, 
Thou  fool,  shall  be  in  danger  of  hell  fire." 
(Matt.  v.  22.)  This  is  a  commandment.  And 
again,  "  If  thou  bring  thy  gift  to  the  altar,  and 
there  rememberest  that  thy  brother  hath  aught 
against  thee,  leave  there  thy  gift  before  the 
altar,  and  go  thy  way ;  first  be  reconciled  to  thy 
brother,  and  then  come  and  offer  thy  gift." 
(Matt.  v.  23,  24.)  This  also  is  a  command. 
But  when  He  says,  "  If  thou  wilt  be  perfect,  go 
and  sell  all  that  thou  hast"  (Matt.  xix.  21): 
and,  "  He  that  is  able  to  receive  it,  let  him 
receive  it"  (Matt.  xix.  12)  :  this  is  not  a  com- 
mand, for  He  makes  His  hearer  the  disposer  of 
the  matter,  and  leaves  him  the  choice,  whether 
he  will  do  it  or  not.  For  these  things  we  may 
either  do  or  not  do.  But  commandments  are 
not  left  to  our  choice,  we  must  either  perform 
them,  or  be  punished  for  not  doing  so.    This  is 

»  Or,  "  its  own,"  t&otc,  E.  V.  "  due." 

*  OTjpvrrci,  the  same  word  as  is  used  for  preaching. 


implied  when  he  says,  "  Necessity  is  laid  upon 
me;  yea  woe  is  unto  me,  if  I  preach  not  the 
Gospel."  (1  Cor.  ix.  16.)  This  I  will  state 
more  plainly,  that  it  may  be  manifest  to  all. 
For  instance,  He  that  is  intrusted  with  the  gov- 
ernment of  the  Church,  and  honored  with  the 
office  of  a  Bishop,  if  he  does  not  declare  to  the 
people  what  they  ought  to  do,  will  have  to 
answer  for  it.  But  the  layman  is  under  no  such 
obligation.  On  this  account  Paul  also  says, 
"  According  to  the  commandment  of  God  our 
Saviour,"  I  do  this.  And  see  how  the  epithets 
fit  in  to  what  I  have  said.  For  having  said 
above,  "God  who  cannot  lie,"  here  he  says, 
"  According  to  the  commandment  of  God  our 
Saviour."  If  then  He  is  our  Saviour,  and  He 
commanded  these  things  with  a  view  that  we 
should  be  saved,  it  is  not  from  a  love  of  com- 
mand. It  is  a  matter  of  faith,  and  the  com- 
mandment of  God  our  Saviour. 

"To  Titus  mine  own8  son,"  that  is,  my  true 
son.  For  it  is  possible  for  men  not  to  be  true 
sons,  as  he  of  whom  he  says,  "  If  any  man  that 
is  called  a  brother  be  a  fornicator,  or  covetous, 
or  an  idolater,  or  a  railer,  or  a  drunkard,  with 
such  an  one  no  not  to  eat."  (1  Cor.  v.  n.) 
Here  is  a  son,4  but  not  a  true  son.  A  son 
indeed  he  is,  because  he  has  once  received  the 
grace,  and  has  been  regenerated  :  but  he  is  not 
a  true  son,  because  he  is  unworthy  of  his  Father, 
and  a  deserter  to  the  usurped  sovereignty  of 
another.  For  in  children  by  nature,  the  true 
and  the  spurious  are  determined  by  the  father 
that  begot,  and  the  mother  who  bore  them. 
But  it  is  not  so  in  this  case,  but  it  depends  on 
the  disposition.  For  one  who  was  a  true  son 
may  become  spurious,  and  a  spurious  son  may 
become  a  true  one.  For  it  is  not  the  force  of 
nature,  but  the  power  of  choice,  on  which  it  de- 
pends, whence  it  is  subject  to  frequent  changes. 
Onesimus  was  a  true  son,  but  he  was  again  not 
true,  for  he  became  "  unprofitable  " ;  then  he 
again  became  a  true  son,  so  as  to  be  called  by 
the  Apostle  his  "own  bowels."     (Philem.  12.) 

Ver.  4.  "  To  Titus,  mine  own  son  after  the 
common  faith." 

What  is  "  after  the  common  faith  "  ?  After 
he  had  called  him  his  own  son,  and  assumed 
the  dignity  of  a  father,  hear  how  it  is  that  he 
lessens  and  lowers  that  honor.  He  adds,  "  After 
the  common  faith  "  ;  that  is,  with  respect  to  the 
faith  I  have  no  advantage  over  thee ;  for  it  is 
common,  and  both  thou  and  I  were  born  by  it. 
Whence  then  does  he  call  him  his  son  ?  Either 
only  wishing  to  express  his  affection  for  him,  or 
his  priority  in  the  Gospel,  or  to  show  that  Titus 
had  been  enlightened  by  him.  On  this  account 
he  calls  the  faithful  both  children  and  brethren ; 

•    TfKVOV. 


522 


WORKS   OF   ST.   CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  I. 


brethren,  because  they  were  born  by  the  same 
faith  ;  children,  because  it  was  by  his  hands. 
By  mentioning  the  common  faith,  therefore,  he 
intimates  their  brotherhood. 

Ver.  4.   "  Grace   and  peace   from  God    the 
Father,  and   the   Lord  Jesus  Christ  our  Sav- 


iour. 

Because  he  had  called  him  his  son,  he  adds, 
"  from  God  the  Father,"  to  elevate  his  mind  by 
showing  whose  son  he  was,  and  by  not  only 
naming  the  common  faith,  but  by  adding  "  our 
Father,"  he  implies  that  he  has  this  honor  equally 
with  himself.  Moral.  Observe  also  how  he 
offers  the  same  prayers  for  the  Teacher,  as  for 
the  disciples  and  the  multitude.  For  indeed  he 
needs  such  prayers  as  much,  or  rather  more 
than  they,  by  how  much  he  has  greater  enmities 
to  encounter,  and  is  more  exposed  to  the  neces- 
sity of  offending  God.  For  the  higher  is  the 
dignity,  the  greater  are  the  dangers  of  the 
priestly  office.  For  one  good  act  in  his  epis- 
copal office  is  sufficient  to  raise  him  to  heaven, 
and  one  error  to  sink  him  to  hell  itself.  For, 
to  pass  over  all  other  cases  of  daily  occurrence, 
if  he  happens,  either  from  friendship  or  any 
other  cause,  to  have  advanced  an  unworthy  per- 
son to  a  Bishopric,  and  have  committed  to  him 
the  rule  of  a  great  city,  see  to  how  great  a  flame 
he  renders  himself  obnoxious.  For  not  only 
will  he  have  to  account  for  the  souls  that  are 
lost,  for  they  are  lost  through  the  man's  irre- 
ligion,  but  for  all  that  is  done  amiss  by  the  other. 
For  he  that  is  irreligious  in  a  private  station  will 
be  much  more  so  when  he  is  raised  to  power. 
It  is  much  indeed,  if  a  pious  man  continue  such 
after  his  elevation  to  rule.  For  he  is  then  more 
strongly  assailed  by  vainglory,  and  the  love  of 
wealth,  and  self-will,  when  office  gives  him  the 
power ;  and  by  offenses,  insults,  and  reproaches, 
and  numberless  other  evils.  If  therefore  any 
one  be  irreligious,  he  will  become  more  so  when 
raised  to  office ;  and  he  who  appoints  such  a 
ruler  will  be  answerable  for  all  the  offenses  com- 
mitted by  him,  and  for  the  whole  people.  But 
if  it  is  said  of  him  who  gives  offense  to  one  soul, 
"  It  were  better  for  him  that  a  millstone  were 
hanged  about  his  neck,  and  that  he  were  drowned 
in  the  depth  of  the  sea  "  (Matt,  xviii.  6)  ;  what 
will  he  have  to  suffer  who  offends  so  many  souls, 
whole  cities  and  populations,  and  multitudes  of 
families,1  men,  women,  children,  citizens,  and 
husbandmen,  the  inhabitants  of  the  city  itself, 
and  of  all  places  subject  to  it  ?  To  say  thrice 
as  much  more  is  to  say  nothing,  so  severe  is  the 
vengeance  and  the  punishment  to  which  he  will 
be  obnoxious.  So  that  a  Bishop  especially  needs 
the  grace  and  peace  of  God.  For  if  without 
these  he  governs  the  people,  all  is  ruined  and 


1  So  Sav.  mar.    Edd.  "  souls." 


lost,  for  want  of  those  helms.  And  though  he 
be  skilled  in  the  art  of  steering,  he  will  sink  the 
vessel  and  those  that  sail  in  it,  if  he  has  not 
these  helms,  "  the  grace  and  peace  of  God." 

Hence  I  am  struck  with  astonishment  at  those 
who  desire  so  great  a  burden.  Wretched  and 
unhappy  man,  seest  thou  what  it  is  thou  desir- 
est  ?  If  thou  art  by  thyself,  unknown  and  un- 
distinguished, though  thou  committest  ten  thou- 
sand faults,  thou  hast  only  one  soul  for  which  to 
give  an  account,  and  for  it  alone  wilt  thou  be 
answerable.  But  when  thou  art  raised  to  this 
office,  consider  for  how  many  persons  thou  art 
obnoxious  to  punishment.  Hear  what  Paul 
says,  "  Obey  them  that  have  the  rule  over  you, 
and  submit  yourselves  :  for  they  watch  for  your 
souls  as  they  that  must  give  account."  (Heb. 
xiii.  17.)  But  dost  thou  desire  honor  and 
power?  But  what  pleasure  is  there  in  this 
honor  ?  I  confess,  I  see  not.  For  to  be  a  ruler 
indeed  is  not  possible,  since  it  depends  upon 
those  under  thy  rule  to  obey  or  not.  And  to 
any  one  who  considers  the  matter  closely,  it  will 
appear  that  a  Bishop  does  not  so  much  come 
to  rule,  as  to  serve  a  multitude  of  masters,  who 
are  of  opposite  desires  and  sentiments.  For 
what  one  commends,  another  blames  ;  what  this 
man  censures,  that  admires.  To  whom  there- 
fore shall  he  listen,  with  whom  shall  he  comply? 
It  is  impossible  !  And  the  slave  that  is  bought 
with  money  complains  if  his  master's  commands 
are  contrary  to  each  other.  But  shouldest  thou 
grieve,  when  so  many  masters  give  the  contrary 
orders,  thou  art  condemned  even  for  this,  and 
all  mouths  are  opened  against  thee.  Tell  me 
then,  is  this  honor,  is  this  rule,  is  this  power? 

One  who  holds  the  Episcopal  office  has  re- 
quired a  contribution  of  money.  He  who  is  un- 
willing to  contribute  not  only  withholds  it,  but 
that  he  may  not  seem  to  withhold  it  from  indif- 
ference, he  accuses  his  Bishop.  He  is  a  thief, 
he  says,  a  robber,  he  engulfs  the  goods  of  the 
poor,  he  devours  the  rights  of  the  needy.  Cease 
thy  calumnies  !  How  long  wilt  thou  say  these 
things?  Wilt  thou  not  contribute?  No  one 
compels  thee,  there  is  no  constraint.  Why  dost 
thou  revile  him  who  counsels  and  advises  thee? 
Is  any  one  reduced  to  need,  and  he  from  in- 
ability, or  some  other  hindrance,  has  not  lent  a 
hand  ?  No  allowance  is  made  for  him,  the  re- 
proaches in  this  case  are  worse  than  in  the  other. 
This  then  is  government !  And  he  cannot  avenge 
himself.  For  they  are  his  own  bowels,  and  as 
though  the  bowels  be  swollen,  and  though  they 
give  pain  to  the  head  and  the  rest  of  the  body, 
we  venture  not  on  revenge,  we  cannot  take  a 
sword  and  pierce  them ;  so  if  one  of  those  under 
our  rule  be  of  such  sort,  and  create  trouble  and 
disorder  by  these  accusations,  we  dare  not 
avenge  ourselves,  for  this  would  be  far  from  the 


Homily  I.] 


HOMILIES   ON   TITUS. 


523 


disposition  of  a  father,  but  we  must  endure  the 
grief  till  he  becomes  sound  and  well. 

The  slave  bought  with  money  has  an  ap- 
pointed work,  which  when  he  has  performed,  he 
is  afterwards  his  own  master.  But  the  Bishop  is 
distracted  on  every  side,  and  is  expected  to  do 
many  things  that  are  beyond  his  power.  If  he 
knows  not  how  to  speak,  there  is  great  murmur- 
ing ;  and  if  he  can  speak,  then  he  is  accused  of 
being  vainglorious.  If  he  cannot  raise  the  dead, 
he  is  of  no  worth,  they  say :  such  an  one  is 
pious,  but  this  man  is  not.  If  he  eats  a  mod- 
erate meal,  for  this  he  is  accused,  he  ought  to 
be  strangled,  they  say.  If  he  is  seen  at  the 
bath,1  he  is  much  censured.  In  short,  he  ought 
not  to  look  upon  the  sun  !  If  he  does  the  same 
things  that  I  do,  if  he  bathes,  eats  and  drinks, 
and  wears  the  same  clothing,  and  has  the  care 
of  a  house  and  servants,  on  what  account  is  he 
set  over  me?  But  he  has  domestics  to  minister 
to  him,  and  an  ass  to  ride  upon,  why  then  is  he 
set  over  me  ?  But  say,  ought  he  then  to  have 
no  one  to  wait  upon  him  ?  Ought  he  himself  to 
light  his  own  fire,  to  draw  water,  to  cleave  wood, 
to  go  to  market?  How  great  a  degradation 
would  this  be  !  Even  the  holy  Apostles  would 
not  that  any  ministers  of  the  word  should  attend 
upon  the  tables  of  the  widows,  but  they  consid- 
ered it  a  business  unworthy  of  them  :  and  would 
you  degrade  them  to  the  offices  of  your  own 
domestics  ?  Why  dost  not  thou,  who  command- 
est  these  things,  come  and  perform  these  ser- 
vices ?  Tell  me,  does  not  he  minister  to  thee  a 
better  service  than  thine,  which  is  bodily?  Why 
dost  thou  not  send  thy  domestic  to  wait  upon 
him  ?  Christ  washed  the  feet  of  His  disciples  ; 
is  it  a  great  thing  for  thee  to  give  this  service  to 
thy  Teacher?  But  thou  art  not  willing  to  render 
it  thyself,  and  thou  grudgest  it  to  him.  Ought 
he  then  to  draw  his  livelihood  from  heaven? 
But  God  wills  not  so. 

But  you  say,  "  Had  the  Apostles  free  men  to 
serve  them?"  Would  you  then  hear  how  the 
Apostles  lived  ?  They  made  long  journeys,  and 
free  men  and  honorable  women  laid  down  their 
lives  and  souls  for  their  relief.  But  hear  this 
blessed  Apostle  thus  exhorting ;  "  Hold  such  in 
reputation"  (Phil.  ii.  29,  30)  :  and  again,  "Be- 
cause for  the  work  of  Christ  he  was  nigh  unto 
death,  not  regarding  his  life,  to  supply  your  lack 
of  service  toward  me."     See  what  he  says  !  but 

i  See  above,  p.  499. 


thou  hast  not  a  word  to  throw  away  upon  thy 
spiritual  father,  much  less  wilt  thou  submit  to 
any  danger  in  his  behalf.  But  thou  sayest,  "  He 
ought  not  to  frequent  the  bath."  And  where  is 
this  forbidden?  there  is  nothing  honorable  in 
being  unclean. 

These  are  not  the  things  we  find  blamed  or 
applauded  at  all.  For  the  qualities  which  a 
Bishop  is  required  to  possess  are  different,  as  to 
be  blameless,  sober,  orderly,  hospitable,  apt  to 
teach.  These  the  Apostle  requires,  and  these 
we  ought  to  look  for  in  a  ruler  of  the  Church, 
but  nothing  further.  Thou  art  not  more  strict 
than  Paul,  or  rather  more  strict  than  the  Spirit. 
If  he  be  a  striker,  or  violent,  or  cruel,  and  un- 
merciful, accuse  him.  These  things  are  unworthy 
of  a  Bishop.  If  he  be  luxurious,  this  also  is 
censurable.  But  if  he  takes  care  of  his  body 
that  he  may  minister  to  thee,  if  he  attends  to  his 
health  that  he  may  be  useful,  ought  he  for  this 
to  be  accused  ?  Knowest  thou  not  that  bodily 
infirmity  no  less  than  infirmity  of  soul  injures 
both  us  and  the  Church  ?  Why,  otherwise,  does 
Paul  attend  to  this  matter,  in  writing  to  Timothy, 
"  Use  a  little  wine  for  thy  stomach's  sake,  and 
thy  often  infirmities"?  (i  Tim.  v.  23.)  For 
if  we  could  practice  virtue  with  the  soul  alone, 
we  need  not  take  care  of  the  body.  And  why 
then  were  we  born  at  all  ?  But  if  this  has  con- 
tributed a  great  share,  is  it  not  the  extreme  of 
folly  to  neglect  it  ? 

For  suppose  a  man  honored  with  the  Bishop- 
ric, and  intrusted  with  a  public  charge  of  the 
Church,  and  let  him  in  other  respects  be  vir- 
tuous, and  have  every  quality,  which  a  priest 
ought  to  possess,  yet  let  him  be  always  confined 
to  his  bed  by  reason  of  great  infirmity,  what 
service  will  he  be  able  to  render?  Upon  what 
mission  can  he  go  ?  what  visitation  can  he  under- 
take ?  whom  can  he  rebuke  or  admonish  ?  These 
things  I  say,  that  you  may  learn  not  causelessly 
to  accuse  him,  but  rather  may  receive  him 
favorably ;  as  also  that  if  any  one  desire  rule  in 
the  Church,  seeing  the  shower  of  abuse  that 
attends  it,  he  may  quench  that  desire.  Great 
indeed  is  the  danger  of  such  a  station,  and  it 
requires  "  the  grace  and  peace  of  God."  Which 
that  we  may  have  abundantly,  do  you  pray  for 
us,  and  we  for  you,  that  practicing  virtue  aright 
we  may  so  obtain  the  blessings  promised,  through 
Jesus  Christ,  with  whom,  &c. 


524 


WORKS*  OF   ST.   CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  II. 


HOMILY    II. 

Tnus  i.  5,  6. 


•'  For  this  cause  left  I  thee  in  Crete,  that  thou  shouldest 
set  in  order  the  things  that  are  wanting,  and  ordain 
elders  in  every  city  as  I  had  appointed  thee :  If  any 
i>e  blameless,  the  husband  of  one  wife,  having  faith-  i 
ful  children,  not  accused  of  riot,  or  unruly." 

The  whole  life  of  men  in  ancient  times  was 
one  of  action  and  contention ;  ours  on  the  con- 
trary is  a  life  of  indolence.  They  knew  that 
they  were  brought  into  the  world  for  this  pur- 
pose, that  they  might  labor  according  to  the  will 
of  Him  who  brought  them  into  it ;  but  we,  as  if 
we  had  been  placed  here  but  to  eat  and  drink, 
and  lead  a  life  of  pleasure,  we  pay  no  regard  to 
spiritual  things.  I  speak  not  only  of  the  Apos- 
tles, but  of  those  that  followed  them.  You  see 
them  accordingly  traversing  all  places,  and  pur- 
suing this  as  their  only  business,  living  altogether 
as  in  a  foreign  land,  as  those  who  had  no  city 
upon  earth.  Hear  therefore  what  the  blessed 
Apostle  saith, 

"  For  this  cause  left  I  thee  in  Crete." 

As  if  the  whole  world  had  been  one  house, 
they  divided  it  among  themselves,  administer- 
ing its  affairs  everywhere,  each  taking  care  of  his 
several  portion  of  it. 

"  For  this  cause  left  I  thee  in  Crete,  that  thou 
shouldest  set  in  order  the  things  that  are  [R.  V. 
were]  wanting." 

He  does  not  command  this  in  an  imperious 
manner  ;  "  that  thou  shouldest  set  in  order,"  he 
says.  Here  we  see  a  soul  free  from  all  envy, 
seeking  everywhere  the  advantage  of  his  disciples, 
not  curiously  solicitous,  whether  the  good  was 
done  by  himself  or  by  another.  For  where 
there  was  a  case  of  danger  and  great  difficulty, 
he  in  his  own  person  set  it  in  order.  But  those 
things  which  were  rather  attended  with  honor 
and  praise  he  committed  to  his  disciple,  as  the 
ordination  of  Bishops,  and  such  other  things 
as  required  some  farther  arrangement,1  or,  so 
to  speak,  to  be  brought  to  greater  perfection. 
What  sayest  thou  ?  does  he  farther  set  in  order 
thy  work?  and  dost  thou  not  think  it  a  disgrace 
bringing  shame  upon  thee  ?  By  no  means ;  for 
I  look  only  to  the  common  good,  and  whether 
it  be  done  by  me,  or  by  another,  it  makes  no 
difference  to  me.  Thus  it  becomes  him  to  be 
affected  who  presides  in  the  Church,  not  to 
seek  his  own  honor,  but  the  common  good. 

"  And  ordain  elders  in  every  city,"  here  he  is 
speaking  of  Bishops,  as  we  have  before  said,2 

1  ini6iop0u><reto<;. 

*  See  on  i  Tim.  iii.  7,  Horn.  x. 


"as  I  had  appointed  thee.  If  any  is  blame- 
less." "  In  every  city,"  he  says,  for  he  did  not 
wish  the  whole  island  to  be  intrusted  to  one, 
but  that  each  should  have  his  own  charge  and 
care,  for  thus  he  would  have  less  labor  himself, 
and  those  under  his  rule  would  receive  greater 
attention,  if  the  Teacher  had  not  to  go  about 
to3  the  presidency  of  many  Churches,  but  was 
left  to  be  occupied  with  one  only,  and  to  bring 
that  into  order. 

Ver.  6.  "  If  any  be  blameless,  the  husband  of 
one  wife,  having  faithful  children,  not  accused 
of  riot,  or  unruly." 

AVhy  does  he  bring  forward  such  an  one? 
To  stop  the  mouths  of  those  heretics,  who  com- 
demned  marriage,  showing  that  it  is  not  an  un- 
holy thing  in  itself,  but  so  far  honorable,  that 
a  married  man  might  ascend  the  holy  throne ; 
and  at  the  same  reproving  the  wanton,  and  not 
permitting  their  admission  into  this  high  office 
who  contracted  a  second  marriage.  For  he 
who  retains  no  kind  regard  for  her  who  is  de- 
parted, how  shall  he  be  a  good  president?  and 
what  accusation  would  he  not  incur?  For  you 
all  know,  that  though  it  is  not  forbidden  by  the 
laws  to  enter  into  a  second  marriage,  yet  it  is 
a  thing  liable  to  many  ill  constructions.  Wish- 
ing therefore  a  ruler  to  give  no  handle  for 
reproach  to  those  under  his  rule,  he  on  this 
account  says,  "  If  any  be  blameless," 4  that  is,  if 
his  life  be  free  from  reproach,  if  he  has  given 
occasion  to  no  one  to  assail  his  character. 
Hear  what  Christ  says,  "  If  the  light  that  is  in 
thee  be  darkness,  how  great  is  that  darkness ! " 
(Matt.  vi.  23.) 

"  Having  faithful  children,  not  accused  of 
riot,  or  unruly." 

We  should  observe  what  care  he  bestows 
upon  children.  For  he  who  cannot  be  the 
instructor  of  his  own  children,  how  should  he 
be  the  Teacher  of  others  ?  If  he  cannot  keep 
in  order  those  whom  he  has  had  with  him  from 
the  beginning,  whom  he  has  brought  up,  and 
over  whom  he  had  power  both  by  the  laws,  and 
by  nature,  how  will  he  be  able  to  benefit  those 
without?  For  if  the  incompetency*  of  the 
father  had  not  been  great,  he  would  not  have 
allowed  those  to  become  bad  whom  from  the 
first  he  had  under  his  power.  For  it  is  not 
possible,  indeed  it  is  not,  that  one  should  turn 
out  ill  who  is  brought  up  with  much  care,  and 


3  Saw  mar.  "  were  not  to  be  distracted  by." 
*  ay«yKAi}TOf. 


«  rdki*. 


Homily  II.] 


HOMILIES   ON   TITUS. 


525 


has  received  great  attention.  Sins  are  not  so 
prevalent  by  nature,  as  to  overcome  so  much 
previous  care.  But  if,  occupied  in  the  pursuit 
of  wealth,  he  has  made  his  children  a  secondary 
concern,  and  not  bestowed  much  care  upon 
them,  even  so  he  is  unworthy.  For  if  when 
nature  prompted,  he  was  so  void  of  affection 
or  so  senseless,  that  he  thought  more  of  his 
wealth  than  of  his  children,  how  should  he  be 
raised  to  the  Episcopal  throne,  and  so  great 
rule?  For  if  he  was  unable  to  restrain  them, 
it  is  a  great  proof  of  his  weakness ;  and  if  he 
was  unconcerned,  his  want  of  affection  is  much 
to  be  blamed.  He  then  that  neglects  his  own 
children,  how  shall  he  take  care  of  other  men's  ? 
And  he  has  not  only  said,  "not  riotous,"  but 
not  even  "accused  of  riot."  There  must  not 
be  an  ill  report,  or  such  an  opinion  of  them. 

Ver.  7.  "  For  a  Bishop  must  be  blameless,  as 
the  steward  of  (k>d ;  not  self-willed,  not  soon 
angry,  not  given  to  wine,  no  striker." 

For  a  ruler  without,  as  he  rules  by  law  and 
compulsion,  perhaps  does  not  consult  the  wishes 
of  those  under  his  rule.  But  he  who  ought  to 
rule  men  with  their  own  consent,  and  who  will 
be  thankful  for  his  rule,  if  he  so  conduct  himself 
as  to  do  everything  'of  his  own  will,  and  share 
counsels  with  no  one,  makes  his  presidency 
tyrannical  rather  than  popular.  For  he  must 
be  "  blameless,  as  the  steward  of  God,  not  self- 
willed,  not  soon  angry."  For  how  shall  he  in- 
struct others  to  rule  that  passion,  who  has  not 
taught  himself?  For  power  leads  on  to  many 
temptations,  it  makes  a  man  more  harsh  and 
difficult  to  please,  even  him  that  was  very  mild, 
surrounding  him  with  so  many  occasions  of  an- 
ger. If  he  have  not  previously  practiced  himself 
in  this  virtue,  he  will  grow  harsh,  and  will  injure 
and  destroy  much  that  is  under  his  rule. 

"  Not  given  to  wine,1  no  striker."  Here  he 
is  speaking  of  the  insolent  man.  For  he  should 
do  all  things  by  admonition  or  rebuke,  and  not 
by  insolence.  What  necessity,  tell  me,  for  in- 
sult ?  He  ought  to  terrify,  to  alarm,  to  penetrate 
the  soal  with  the  threat  of  hell.  But  he  that  is 
insulted  becomes  more  impudent,  and  rather 
despises  him  that  insults  him.  Nothing  pro- 
duces contempt  more  than  insult ;  it  disgraces 
the  insolent  person,  and  prevents  his  being  re- 
spected, as  he  ought  to  be.  Their  discourse 
ought  to  be  delivered  with  much  caution.  In 
reproving  sins  they  should  bear  in  mind  the 
future  judgment,  but  keep  clear  of  all  insolence. 
Yet  if  any  prevent  them  from  doing  their  duty, 
they  must  prosecute  the  matter  with  all  authority. 
"Not  a  striker,"  he  says.  The  teacher  is  the 
physician  of  souls.  But  the  physician  does  not 
strike,  but  heals  and  restores  him  that  has 
stricken  him.     "  Not  given  to  filthy  lucre." 

1  ttdpoivov,  see  p.  438,  note. 


Ver.  8.  "  But  a  lover  of  hospitality,  a  lover  of 
good  men,  sober,  just,  holy,  temperate." 

Ver.  9.  "  Holding  fast  the  faithful  word  as  he 
has  been  taught." 

You  see  what  intensity  of  virtue  he  required. 
"  Not  given  to  filthy  lucre,"  that  is,  showing 
great  contempt  for  money.  "  A  lover  of  hospi- 
tality, a  lover  of  good  men,  sober,  just,  holy  "  ; 
he  means,  giving  away  all  his  substance  to  them 
that  need.  "  Temperate  "  ;  he  speaks  not  here 
of  one  who  fasts,  but  of  one  who  commands  his 
passions,  his  tongue,  his  hands,  his  eyes.  For 
this  is  temperance,  to  be  drawn  aside  by  no 
passion. 

"Holding  fast  the  faithful  word  as  he  hath 
been  taught."  By  "faithful"  is  here  meant 
"true,"  or  that  which  was  delivered  through 
faith,  not  requiring  reasonings,  or  questionings. 

"  Holding  fast,"  that  is,  having  care  of  it,  mak- 
ing it  his  business.  What  then,  if  he  be  igno- 
rant of  the  learning  that  is  without  ?  For  this 
cause,  he  says,  "  the  faithful  word,  according  to 
teaching."  * 

"  That  he  may  be  able  both  to  exhort,  and  to 
convince  the  gainsayers." 

So  that  there  is  need  not  of  pomp  of  words, 
but  of  strong  minds,  of  skill  in  the  Scriptures, 
and  of  powerful  thoughts.  Do  you  not  see  that 
Paul  put  to  flight  the  wtole  world,  that  he  was 
more  powerful  than  Plato  and  all  the  rest  ?  But 
it  was  by  miracles,  you  say.  Not  by  miracles 
only,  for  if  you  peruse  the  Acts  of  the  Apostles, 
you  will  find  him  often  prevailing  by  his  teach- 
ing previously  to  his  miracles. 

"  That  he  may  be  able  by  sound  doctrine  to 
exhort,"  that  is,  to  retain  his  own  people,  and  to 
overthrow  the  adversaries.  "And  to  convince 
the  gainsayers."  For  if  this  is  not  done,  all  is 
lost.  He  who  knows  not  how  to  combat  the 
adversaries,  and  to  "bring  every  thought  into 
captivity  to  the  obedience  of  Christ,"  and  to 
beat  down  reasonings,  he  who  knows  not  what 
he  ought  to  teach  with  regard  to  right  doctrine, 
far  from  him  be  the  Teacher's  throne.  For  the 
other  qualities  may  be  found  in  those  under  his 
rule,  such  as  to  be  "  blameless,  to  have  his  chil- 
dren in  subjection,  to  be  hospitable,  just,  holy." 
But  that  which  characterizes  the  Teacher  is  this, 
to  be  able  to  instruct  in  the  word,  to  which  no 
regard  is  now  paid. 

Ver.  10.  "  For  there  are  many  unruly  and 
vain  talkers,  and  deceivers,  especially  they  of 
the  circumcision ; " 

Ver.  11.   "Whose  mouths  must  be  stopped." 

Seest  thou  how  he  shows  that  they  are  such? 
From  their  not  wishing  to  be  ruled,  but  to  rule. 
For  he  has  glanced  at  this.  When  therefore 
thou  canst  not  persuade  them,  do  not  give  them 
charges,  but  stop  their  mouths,  for  the  benefit  of 

3  The  Greek  does  not  exclude  the  sense  of  learning  others. 


526. 


WORKS   OF   ST.    CHRYSOSTOM. 


[HOMILV   II. 


others.  But  of  what  advantage  will  this  be,  if 
they  will  not  obey,  or  are  unruly  ?  Why  then 
should  he  stop  their  mouths?  In  order  that 
others  may  be  benefited  by  it. 

"  Who  subvert  whole  houses,  teaching  things 
which  they  ought  not  for  filthy  lucre's  sake." 

For  if  he  has  undertaken  the  office  of  a 
Teacher,  and  is  not  able  to  combat  these  ene- 
mies, and  to  stop  their  mouths  who  are  so  shame- 
less, he  will  become  in  each  case  the  cause  of 
their  destruction  who  perish.  And  if  some  one 
has  thus  advised,  "  Seek  not  to  be  a  judge,  un- 
less thou  canst  take  away  iniquity"  (Ecclus.  vii. 
6)  ;  much  more  may  we  say  here,  "  Seek  not  to 
be  a  Teacher,  if  thou  art  unequal  to  the  dignity 
of  the  office ;  but  though  dragged  to  it,  decline 
it."  Dost  thou  see  that  the  love  of  power,1  the 
love  of  filthy  lucre,  is  the  cause  of  these  evils  ? 
"Teaching  things  which  they  ought  not,"  he 
says,  "  for  filthy  lucre's  sake." 

Moral.  For  there  is  nothing  which  is  not 
spoiled  by  these  passions.  But  as  when  violent 
winds,  falling  on  a  calm  sea,  turn  it  up  from  its 
foundation,  and  mingle  the  sand  with  the  waves, 
so  these  passions  assailing  the  soul  turn  all  upside 
down,  and  dim  the  clearness  of  the  mental  sight, 
but  especially  does  the  mad  desire  of  glory. 
For  a  contempt  for  money  any  one  may  easily 
attain,  but  to  despise  the  honor  that  proceeds 
from  the  multitude,  requires  a  great  effort,  a 
philosophic  temper,  a  certain  angelic  soul  that 
reaches  to  the  very  summit  of  heaven.  For 
there  is  no  passion  so  tyrannical,  so  universally 
prevalent,  in  a  greater  or  less  degree  indeed, 
but  still  everywhere.  How  then  shall  we  subdue 
it,  if  not  wholly,  yet  in  some  little  part?  By 
looking  up  to  heaven,  by  setting  God  before  our 
eyes,  by  entertaining  thoughts  superior  to  earthly 
things.  Imagine,  when  thou  desirest  glory,  that 
thou  hast  already  attained  it,  and  mark  the  end, 
and  thou  wilt  find  it  to.be  nothing.  Consider 
with  what  loss  it  is  attended,  of  how  many  and 
how  great  blessings  it  will  deprive  thee.  For 
thou  wilt  undergo  the  toils  and  dangers,  yet  be 
deprived  of  the  fruits  and  rewards  of  them. 
Consider  that  the  majority  are  bad,  and  despise 
their  opinion.  In  the  case  of  each  individual, 
consider  what  the  man  is,  and  thou  wilt  see  how 
ridiculous  a  thing  is  glory,  that  it  is  rather  to  be 
called  shame. 

And  after  this,  lift  up  thy  thoughts  to  the 
theater 2  above.  When  in  doing  any  good  thou 
considerest  that  it  ought  to  be  displayed  to  men, 
and  thou  seekest  for  some  spectators  of  the 
action,  and  art  in  travail  to  be  seen,  reflect  that 
God  beholds  thee,  and  all  that  desire  will  be  ex- 
tinguished. Retire  from  the  earth,  and  look  to 
that  theater  that  is  in  Heaven.     If  men  should 


1  So  B.  and  Sav.  mar.     Edd.  "  avarice." 

2  i.e.  spectators. 


praise  thee,  yet  hereafter  they  will  blame  thee, 
will  envy  thee,  will  assail  thy  character ;  or  if  they 
do  not,  yet  their  praise  will  not  benefit  thee.  It 
is  not  so  with  God.  He  delights  in  praising  our 
virtuous  deeds.  Hast  thou  spoken  well,  and 
obtained  applause?  What  hast  thou  gained? 
For  if  those  who  applauded  thee  were  benefited, 
changed  in  their  minds,  become  better  men, 
and  had  desisted  from  their  evil  deeds,  then 
mightest  thou  indeed  rejoice,  not  at  the  praises 
bestowed,  but  at  the  wonderful  change  for  the 
better.  But  if  they  continue  their  praises,  and 
loud  plaudits,  but  gain  no  good  by  what  they 
applaud,  thou  oughtest  rather  to  grieve :  for 
these  things  turn  to  their  judgment  and  con- 
demnation.3 But  thou  obtainest  glory  for  thy 
piety.  If  thou  art  truly  pious,  and  conscious  of 
no  guilt,  thou  shouldest  rejoice,  not  because  thou 
are  reputed  pious,  but  because  thou  art  so.  But 
if,  without  being  so,  thou  desirest  the  good 
opinion  of  the  multitude,  consider  that  they  will 
not  be  thy  judges  at  the  last  day,  but  He  who 
knoweth  perfectly  the  things  that  are  hid.  And 
if  while  conscious  of  guilt,  thou  art  supposed  by 
all  to  be  pure,  instead  of  rejoicing,  thou  shouldest 
grieve  and  mourn  bitterly,  keeping  constantly  in 
view  that  Day,  in  which  all  things  will  be  revealed, 
in  which  the  hidden  things  of  darkness  will  be 
brought  to  light. 

Dost  thou  enjoy  honor?  reject  it,  knowing 
that  it  renders  thee  a  debtor.  Does  no  one 
honor  thee  ?  thou  oughtest  to  rejoice  at  it.  For 
God  will  not  lay4  to  thy  charge  this,  among 
other  things,  that  thou  hast  enjoyed  honor. 
Seest  thou  not  that  God  upbraids  Israel  with 
this  among  other  things,  by  his  prophet,  "  I  took 
of  your  sons  for  Prophets,  and  of  your  young 
men  for  sanctification " ?  (Amos  ii.  n,  Sept.) 
Thou  wilt  therefore  gain  this  advantage  at  least, 
that  thou  wilt  not  aggravate  thy  punishment. 
For  he  who  is  not  honored  in  the  present  life, 
who  is  despised,  and  held  in  no  consideration, 
but  is  insulted  and  scorned,  gains  this  at  least, 
if  nothing  else,  that  he  has  not  to  answer  for 
being  honored  by  his  fellow-servants.6  And  on 
many  other  accounts  he  gains*  by  it.  He  is 
brought  down  and  humbled,  nor  if  he  would, 
can  he  be  high-minded,  if7  he  takes  the  more 
heed  to  himself.  But  he,  who  enjoys  more 
honor,  besides  being  responsible  for  great  debts, 
is  lifted  up  into  arrogance  and  vainglory,  and 
becomes  the  slave  of  men ;  and  as  this  tyranny 
increases,  he  is  compelled  to  do  many  things 
which  he  would  not. 

Knowing  therefore  that  it  is  better  to  want 


8  B.  and  Sav.  mar.  add,  "  and  condemnation/* 
*  One  MS.  "  will  lay."    The  sense  is  the  same,  as  it  refers  to 
the  contrary  case. 

fl  In  this  spirit  Coleridge  prays  "  to  be  forgiven  for  fame." 
6  B.  "  will  gain."    Ben.  "  has  cause  to  rejoice." 
»  B.  and  Sav.  mar.  "  but." 


IIo.MILY   II.] 


HOMILIES   ON   TITUS. 


527 


glory,  than  to  possess  it,  let  us  not  seek  for 
honors,  but  evade  them  when  they  are  offered, 
let  us  cast  them  from  us,  let  us  extinguish  that 
desire.  This  we  have  said  at  once  to  the  rulers 
of  the  Church,  and  to  those  under  their  rule. 
For  a  soul  desirous  of  honor,  and  of  being  glori- 
fied, shall  not  see  the  kingdom  of  heaven.  This 
is  not  my  own  saying.  I  speak  not  my  own 
words,  but  those  of  the  Spirit  of  God.  He  shall 
not  see  it,  though  he  practice  virtue.  For  he 
saith,  "They  have  their  reward."  (Matt.  vi.  5.) 
He  then,  who  has  no  reward  to  receive,  how  shall 
he  see  the  kingdom  of  heaven  ?  I  forbid  thee  not 
to  desire  glory,  but  I  would  wish  it  to  be  the  true 
glory,  that  which  proceeds  from  God.  "  Whose 
praise,"  it  is  said,  "  is  not  of  men,  but  of  God." 
(Rom.  ii.  29.)  Let  us  be  pious  in  secret,  not 
cumbered  with  parade,  and  show,  and  hypocrisy. 
Let  us  cast  away  the  sheep's  clothing,  and  rather 
let  us  become  sheep.  Nothing  is  more  worthless 
than  the  glory  of  men.  Should  thou  see  a  com- 
pany of  little  children,  mere  sucklings,  wouldest 
thou  desire  glory  from  them  ? 1  Be  thus  affected 
towards  all  men  with  respect  to  glory. 

It  is  for  this  reason  called  vainglory.  Dost 
thou  see  the  masks  worn  by  stage-players?  how 
beautiful  and  splendid  they  are,  fashioned  to  the 
extreme  height  of  elegance.  Canst  thou  show 
me  any  such  real  countenance  ?  By  no  means. 
What  then?  didst  thou  ever  fall  in  love  with 
them?  No.  Wherefore?  Because  they  are 
empty,  imitating  beauty,  but  not  being  really 
beautiful.  Thus  human  glory  is  empty,  and  an 
imitation  of  glory :  it  is  not  true  glory.  That 
beauty  only  which  is  natural,  which  is  within,  is 
lasting :  that  which  is  put  on  externally  often 
conceals  deformity,  conceals  it  from  men  until 
the  evening.  But  when  the  theater  breaks  up, 
and  the  masks  are  taken  off,  each  appears  what 
he  really  is. 

Let  us  therefore  pursue  truth,  and  not  be  as  if 
we  were  on  the  stage  and  acting  a  part.  For  of 
what  advantage  is  it,  tell  me,  to  be  gazed  at  by 
a  multitude  ?  It  is  vainglory,  and  nothing  else. 
For  return  to  thy  house,  and  solitude,  and  im- 
mediately all  is  gone.  Thou  hast  gone  to  the 
market-place,  thou  hast  turned  upon  thee  the 

1  Sav.  mar.  •'  No,  thou  sayest." 


eyes  of  all  present.  What  hast  thou  gained? 
Nothing.  It  vanished,  and  passed  away  like 
dissolving  smoke.  Do  we  then  love  things  thus 
unsubstantial  ?  How  unreasonable  is  this  !  what 
madness  !  To  one  thing  only  let  us  look,  to  the 
praise  of  God.  If  this  be  our  object,  we  shall 
never  seek  the  praise  of  men ;  but  if  it  falls  to 
us,  we  shall  despise,  deride,  and  reject  it.  We 
shall  be  affected  as  those  who  desire  gold,  but 
receive  clay.  Let  not  any  one  praise  thee,  for  it 
profits  nothing  ;  and  if  he  blame  thee,  it  harms 
thee  not.  But  with  God  praise  and  blame  are 
attended  with  real  gain  and  loss,  whilst  all  is 
vain  that  proceeds  from  men.  And  herein  we 
are  made  like  unto  God,  that  He  needs  not 
glory  from  men.  "  I  receive  not,"  said  Christ, 
"  honor  from  men."  (John  v.  41.)  Is  this  then 
a  light  thing,  tell  me  ?  When  thou  art  unwilling 
to  despise  glory,  say,  "  By  despising  it,  I  shall 
resemble  God,"  and  immediately  thou  wilt  de- 
spise it.  But  it  is  impossible  that  the  slave  of 
glory  should  not  be  a  slave  to  all,  more  servile 
than  slaves  in  reality.  For  we  do  not  impose 
upon  our  slaves  such  tasks,  as  glory  exacts  from 
her  captives.  Base  and  shameful  are  the  things 
she  makes  them  say,  and  do,2  and  suffer,  and 
when  she  sees  them  obedient,  she  is  the  more 
urgent  in  her  commands. 

Let  us  fly  then,  I  entreat  you,  let  us  fly  from 
this  slavery.  But  how  shall  we  be  able  ?  If  we 
think  seriously 3  of  what  is  in  this  world,  if  we 
observe  that  things  present  are  a  dream,  a 
shadow,  and  nothing  better ;  we  shall  easily 
overcome  this  desire,  and  neither  in  little  nor  in 
great  things  shall  be  led  captive  by  it.  But  if  in 
little  things  we  do  not  despise  it,  we  shall  easily 
be  overcome  by  it  in  the  most  important.  Let 
us  therefore  remove  far  from  us  the  sources  of 
it,  and  these  are,  folly,  and  meanness  of  mind, 
so  that,  if  we  assume  a  lofty  spirit,  we  shall  be 
able  to  look  beyond  honor  from  the  multitude, 
and  to  extend  our  views  to  heaven,  and  obtain 
the  good  things  there.  Of  which  God  grant  that 
we  may  all  be  partakers,  by  the  grace  and  lov- 
ingkindness  of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  with 
whom,  &c. 

3  So  Old  Lat.  and  as  it  seems  two  MSS.,  but  the  reading  of  the 
MSS.  is  not  fully  stated. 
3  ^lAoao^ifO'wjuKv. 


528 


WORKS   OF   ST.   CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  III. 


HOMILY    III. 

Titus  i.  12-14. 


*'  One  of  themselves,  even  a  prophet  of  their  own,  said, 
The  Cretians  are  always  liars,  evil  beasts,  slow  bel- 
lies. This  witness  is  true.  Wherefore  rebuke  them 
sharply,  that  they  may  be  sound  in  the  faith;  Not 
giving  heed  to  Jewish  fables,  and  commandments  of 
men,  that  turn  from  the  truth." 

There  are  several  questions  here.  First,  who 
it  was  that  said  this  ?  Secondly,  why  Paul  quoted 
it?  Thirdly,  why  he  brings  forward  a  testimony 
that  is  not  correct?  Let  us  then  offer  a  season- 
able solution  of  these,  •  having  premised  some 
other  things.  For  when  Paul  was  discoursing  to 
the  Athenians,  in  the  course  of  his  harangue  he 
quoted  these  words,  "  To  the  Unknown  God  "  : 
and  again,  "  For  we  also  are  His  offspring,  as 
certain  also  of  your  own  poets  have  said."  (Acts 
xvii.  23,  28.)  It  was  Epimenides1  who  said 
this,  himself  a  Cretan,  and  whence  he  was  moved 
to  say  it  is  necessary  to  mention.  It  is  this.  The 
Cretans  have  a'  tomb  of  Jupiter,  with  this  in- 
scription. "  Here  lieth  Zan,  whom  they  call 
Jove."  On  account  of  this  inscription,  then,  the 
poet  ridiculing  the  Cretans  as  liars,  as  he  pro- 
ceeds, introduces,  to  increase  the  ridicule,  this 
passage. 

For  even  a  tomb,  O  King,  of  thee 
They  made,  who  never  diedst,  but  aye  shalt  be. 

If  then  this  testimony  is  true,  observe  what  a 
difficulty  !  For  if  the  poet  is  true  who  said  that 
they  spoke  falsely,  in  asserting  that  Jupiter  could 
die,  as  the  Apostle  says,  it  is  a  fearful  thing ! 
Attend,  beloved,  with  much  exactness.  The 
poet  said  that  the  Cretans  were  liars  fcr  saying 
that  Jupiter  was  dead.  The  Apostle  confirmed 
his  testimony :  so,  according  to  the  Apostle, 
Jupiter  is  immortal :  for  he  says,  "  this  witness 
is  true  "  !  What  shall  we  say  then?  Or  rather 
how  shall  we  solve  this?  The  Apostle  has  not 
said  this,  but  simply  and  plainly  applied  this 
testimony  to  their  habit  of  falsehood.  Else  why 
has  he  not  added,  "  For  even  a  tomb,  O  king,  of 
thee,  they  made  "  ?  So  that  the  Apostle  has  not 
said  this,  but  only  that  one  had  well  said,  "  The 
Cretians  are  always  liars."  But  it  is  not  only 
from  hence  that  we  are  confident  that  Jupiter 
is  not  a  God.  From  many  other  arguments  we 
are  able  to  prove  this,  and  not  from  the  testi- 
mony of  the  Cretans.     Besides,  he  has  not  said, 

1  The  words  here  quoted  arc  found  in  Callimachus,  Hymn  ad 
Jov.  v.  8,  to  whom  Theodoret  ascribes  them.  The  "  evil  beasts," 
«c,  is  found  in  Hesiod,  Theogon.  v.  26,  applied  to  shepherds. 
Downcs  suggested  that  Epimenides  may  have  borrowed  from  Hesiod, 
■and  Callimachus  from  him. 


that  in  this  they  were  liars.  Nay  and  it  is  more 
probable  that  they  were  deceived  as  to  this  point 
too.2  For  they  believed  in  other  gods,  on  which 
account  the  Apostle  calls  them  liars. 

And  as  to  the  question,  why  does  he  cite  the 
testimonies  of  the  Greeks?  It  is  because  we 
put  them  most  to  confusion  when  we  bring 
our  testimonies  and  accusations  from  their  own 
writers,  when  we  make  those  their  accusers, 
who  are  admired  among  themselves.  For  this 
reason  he  elsewhere  quotes  those  words,  "To 
the  Unknown  God."  For  the  Athenians,  as  they 
did  not  receive  all  their  gods  from  the  beginning, 
but  from  time  to  time  admitted  some  others,  as 
those  from  the  Hyperboreans,  the  worship  of 
Pan,  and  the  greater  and  the  lesser  mysteries, 
so  these  same,  conjecturing  that  besides  these 
there  might  be  some  other  God,  of  whom  they 
were  ignorant,  that  they  might  be  duly  devout 
to  him  also,  erected  to  him  an  altar,  with  this 
inscription,  "To  the  Unknown  God,"  thereby 
almost  implying,  "  if  there  might  be  some  God 
unknown  to  them."  He  therefore  said  to  them, 
Him  whom  you  have  by  anticipation  acknowl- 
edged, I  declare  to  you.  But  those  words,  "We 
also  are  His  offspring,"  are  quoted  from  Aratus, 
who  having  previously  said,  "  Earth's  paths  are 
full  of  Jove,  the  sea  is  full "  —  adds,*  "  For  we 
too  are  His  offspring,"  in  which  I  conceive  he 
shows  that  we  are  sprung  from  God.  How 
then  does  Paul  wrest  what  is  said  of  Jupiter  to 
the  God  of  the  universe?  He  has  not  trans- 
ferred to  God  what  belongs  to  Jupiter.  But 
what  is  applicable  to  God,  and  was  neither 
justly  nor  properly  applied  to  Jupiter,  this  he 
restores  to  God,  since  the  name  of  God  belongs 
to  Him  alone,  and  is  not  lawfully  bestowed  upon 
idols. 

And  from  what  writers  should  he  address  them  ? 
From  the  Prophets  ?  They  would  not  have  be- 
lieved them.  Since  with  the  Jews  too  he  does  not 
argue  from  the  Gospels,  but  from  the  Prophets. 
For  this  reason  he  says,  "  Unto  the  Jews  I  be- 
came as  a  Jew,  to  them  that  are  without  law,  as 
without  law,  to  those  that  are  under  the  Law,  as 
under  the  Law."  (i  Cor.  ix.  20,  21.)  Thus 
does  God  too,  as  in  the  case  of  the  wise  men,  He 
does  not  conduct  them  by  an  Angel,  nor  a 
Prophet,  nor  an  Apostle,  nor  an  Evangelist,  but 
how  ?  By  a  star.  For  as  their  art  made  them 
conversant  with  these,  He  made  use  of  such 

3  He  seems  to  mean  in  thinking  Jupiter  a  God. 


Homily  III.] 


HOMILIES   ON   TITUS. 


529 


means  to  guide  them.  So  in  the  case  of  the 
oxen,  that  drew  the  ark.  4<  If  it  goeth  up  by 
the  way  of  his  own  coast,  then  He  hath  done  us 
this  great  evil"  (1  Sam.  vi.  9),  as  their  prophets 
suggested.  Do  these  prophets  then  speak  the 
tmth  ?  No ;  but  he  refutes  and  confounds  them 
out  of  their  own  mouths.  Again,  in  the  case 
of  the  witch,  because  Saul  believed  in  her,  he 
caused  him  to  hear  through  her  what  was  about 
to  befall  him.  Why  then  did  Paul  stop  the 
mouth  of  the  spirit,  that  said,  "  These  men  are 
the  servants  of  the  most  high  God,  which  show 
unto  us  the  way  of  salvation  "  ?  (Acts  xvi.  17.) 
And  why  did  Christ  hinder  the  devils  from 
speaking  of  Him  ?  In  this  case  there  was  reason, 
since  the  miracles  were  going  on.  For  here 
it  was  not  a  star  that  proclaimed  Him,  but  He 
Himself;  and  the  demons  again  were  not  wor- 
shiped1 ;  for  it  was  not  an  image  that  spoke,  that 
it  should  be  forbidden.  He  also  suffered  Balaam 
to  bless,  and  did  not  restrain  him.  Thus  He 
everywhere  condescends. 

And  what  wonder  ?  for  He  permitted  opinions 
erroneous,  and  unworthy  of  Himself,  to  prevail, 
as  that  He  was  a  body  formerly,8  and  that  He 
was  visible.  In  opposition  to  which  He  says, 
"  God  is  a  Spirit."  (John  iv.  24.)  Again,  that 
He  delighted  in  sacrifices,  which  is  far  from  His 
nature.  And  He  utters  words  at  variance  with 
His  declarations  of  Himself,  and  many  such 
things.  For  He  nowhere  considers  His  own 
dignity,  but  always  what  will  be  profitable  to  us. 
And  if  a  father  considers  not  his  own  dignity, 
but  talks  lispingly  with  his  children,  and  calls 
their  meat  and  drink  not  by  their  Greek  names, 
but  by  some  childish  and  barbarous  words,  much 
more  doth  God.  Even  in  reproving  He  con- 
descends, as  when  He  speaks  by  the  prophet, 
"  Hath  a  nation  changed  their  gods  ?"  (Jer.  ii.  1 1), 
and  in  every  part  of  Scripture  there  are  instances 
of  His  condescension  both  in  words  and  actions. 

Ver.  13.  "Wherefore  rebuke  them  sharply, 
that  they  may  be  sound  in  the  faith." 

This  he  says,  because  their  disposition  was 
froward,  deceitful,  and  dissolute.  They  have 
these  numberless  bad  qualities;  and  because 
they  are  prone  to  lying,  deceiving,  gluttonous, 
and  slothful,  severe  reproof  is  necessary.  For 
such  characters  will  not  be  managed  by  mild- 
ness, "therefore  rebuke  them."  He  speaks 
not  here  of  Gentiles,  but  of  his  own  people. 
"  Sharply."  Give  them,  he  says,  a  stroke  that 
cuts  deep.  For  one  method  is  not  to  be  em- 
ployed with  all,  but  they  are  to  be  differently 
dealt  with,  according  to  their  various  characters 
and  dispositions.  He  does  not  here  have  re- 
course to  exhortation.     For  as  he  who  treats 


1  i.e.  by  Saul,     z  Sam.  xxviii.  8. 

1  This  word  seems  to  refer  to  the  time  when  the  opinions  were 
allowed  to  prevail. 


with  harshness  the  meek  and  ingenuous,  may 
destroy  them ;  so  he  who  flatters  one  that  re- 
quires severity,  causes  him  to  perish,  and  does 
not  suffer  him  to  be  reclaimed. 

"  That  they  may  be  sound  in  the  faith." 

This  then  is  soundness,  to  introduce  nothing 
spurious,  nor  foreign.  But  if  they  who  are 
scrupulous  about  meats  are  not  sound,  but  are 
sick  and  weak ;  for,  "  Them  that  are  weak,"  he 
says,  "  receive  ye,  but  not  to  doubtful  disputa- 
tions" (Rom  xiv.  i)  ;  what  can  be  said  of 
those  who  observe  the  same  fasts,  (with  the 
Jews,)  who  keep  the  sabbaths,  who  frequent  the 
places  that  are  consecrated  by  them?  I  speak 
of  that  at  Daphne,3  of  that  which  is  called  the 
cave  of  Matrona,  and  of  that  plain  in  Cilicia, 
which  is  called  Saturn's.  How  are  these  sound  ? 
With  them  a  heavier  stroke  is  necessary.  Why 
then  does  he  not  do  the  same  with  the  Romans? 
Because  their  dispositions  were  different,  they 
were  of  a  nobler  character. 

Ver.  14.  "Not  giving  heed,"  he  says,  "to 
Jewish  fables." 

The  Jewish  tenets  were  fables  in  two  ways, 
because  they  were  imitations,  and  because  the 
thing  was  past  its  season,  for  such  things  be- 
come fables  at  last.  For  when  a  thing  ought 
not  to  be  done,  and  being*  done,  is  injurious, 
it  is  a  fable  even  as  it  is  useless.  As  then  those 4 
ought  not  to  be  regarded,  so  neither  ought 
these.  For  this  is  not  being  sound.  For  if 
thou  believest  the  Faith,  why  dost  thou  add 
other  things,  as  if  the  faith  were  not  sufficient 
to  justify?  Why  dost  thou  enslave  thyself  by 
subjection  to  the  Law?  Hast  thou  no  confi- 
dence in  what  thou  believest?  This  is  a  mark 
of  an  unsound  and  unbelieving  mind.  For  one 
who  is  faithful  does  not  doubt,  but  such  an  one 
evidently  doubts. 

Ver.  15.  "  Unto  the  pure,"  he  says,  "all  things 
are  pure." 

Thou  seest  that  this  is  said  to  a  particular 
purpose. 

"  But  unto  them  that  are  defiled  and  unbe- 
lieving is  nothing  pure." 

Things  then  are  not  clean  or  unclean  from 
their  own  nature,  but  from  the  disposition  of 
him  who  partakes  of  them. 

"  But  even  their  mind  and  conscience  is  de- 
filed." 

Ver.  16.  "  They  profess  that  they  know  God ; 
but  in  works  they  deny  Him,  being  abominable, 
and  disobedient,  and  to  every  good  work  repro- 
bate." 

The  swine  therefore  is  clean.  Why  then  was 
it  forbidden  as  unclean?  It  was  not  unclean  by 
nature ;  for,  "  all  things  are  pure."  Nothing  is 
more  unclean  than  a  fish,  inasmuch  as  it  even 

3  See  on  Stat.  Horn.  xvii. 

4  i.e.  heathen  fables. 


53° 


WORKS   OF   ST.   CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  III. 


feeds  upon  human  flesh.  But  it  was  permitted 
and  considered  clean.  Nothing  is  more  unclean 
than  a  bird,  for  it  eats  worms ;  or  than  a  stag, 
which  is  said  to  have  its  name1  from  eating 
serpents.  Yet  all  these  were  eaten.  Why  then 
was  the  swine  forbidden,  and  many  other 
things?  Not  because  they  were  unclean,  but 
to  check  excessive  luxury.  But  had  this  been 
said,  they  would  not  have  been  persuaded ; 
they  were  restrained  therefore  by  the  fear 
of  uncleanness.  For  tell  me,  if  we  enquire 
nicely  into  these  things,  what  is  more  unclean 
than  wine ;  or  than  water,  with  which  they 
mostly  purified  themselves  ?  They  touched  not 
the  dead,  and  yet  they  were  cleansed  by  the 
dead,  for  the  victim  was  dead,  and  with  that 
they  were  cleansed.  This  therefore  was  a  doc- 
trine for  children.  In  the  composition  of  wine, 
does  not  dung  form  a  part?  For  as  the  vine 
draws  moisture  from  the  earth,  so  does  it  from 
the  dung  that  is  thrown  upon  it.  In  short,  if 
we  wish  to  be  very  nice,  everything  .is  unclean, 
otherwise  if  we  please  not  to  be  nice,  nothing 
is  unclean.  Yet  all  things  are  pure.  God  made 
nothing  unclean,  for  nothing  is  unclean,  except 
sin  only.  For  that  reaches  to  the  soul,  and  de- 
files it.     Other  uncleanness  is  human  prejudice. 

"But  unto  them  that  are  defiled  and  un- 
believing is  nothing  pure ;  but  even  their  mind 
and  conscience  is  defiled." 

For  how  can  there  be  anything  unclean  among 
the  pure  ?  But  he  that  has  a  weak  soul  makes 
everything  unclean,  and  if  there  be  set  abroad 
a  scrupulous  enquiry  into  what  is  clean  or  un- 
clean, he  will  touch  nothing.  For  even  these 
things  are  not  clean,  I  speak  of  fish,  and  other 
things,  according  to  their  notions ;  (for  "  their 
mind  and  conscience,"  he  says,  "is  defiled,") 
but  all  are  impure.  Yet  Paul  says  not  so ;  he 
turns  the  whole  matter  upon  themselves.  For 
nothing  is  unclean,  he  says,  but  themselves,  their 
mind  and  their  conscience ;  and  nothing  is  more 
unclean  than  these  ; 2  but  an  evil  will  is  unclean. 

"They  profess  that  they  know  God,  but  in 
works  they  deny  Him,  being  abominable  and 
disobedient,  and  unto  every  good  work  repro- 
bate." 

ii.  i .  "  But  speak  thou  the  things  that  become 
sound  doctrine." 

This  then  is  uncleanness.  They  are  them- 
selves unclean.  But  be  not  thou  silent  on  that 
account  Do  thy  part,  although  they  may  not 
receive  thee.  Advise  and  counsel  them,  though 
they  may  not  be  persuaded.  Here  he  censures 
them  more  severely.  For  they  who  are  mad 
imagine  that  nothing  stands  still,  yet  this  arises 
not  from  the  objects  that  are  seen,  but  from  the 
eyes  that  see.     Because  they  are  unsteady  and 

1  f\a<bos. 

2  B.  "  none  of  these  things  is  unclean." 


giddy,  they  think  that  the  earth  turns  round 
with  them,  which  yet  turns  not,  but  stands  firm. 
The  derangement8  is  of  their  own  state,  not 
from  any  affection  of  the  element.  So  it  is  here, 
when  the  soul  is  unclean,  it  thinks  all  things 
unclean.  Therefore  scrupulous  observances  are 
no  mark  of  purity,  but  it  is  the  part  of  purity  to 
be  bold  in  all  things.  For  he  that  is  pure  by 
nature  ventures  upon  all  things,  they  that  are 
defiled,  upon  nothing.  This  we  may  say  against 
Marcion.  Seest  thou  that  it  is  a  mark  of  purity 
to  be  superior  to  all  defilement,  to  touch  noth- 
ing implies  impurity.  This  holds  even  with  re- 
spect to  God.  That  He  assumed  flesh  is  a 
proof  of  purity;  if  through  fear  He  had  not  I 
taken  it,  there  would  have  been  defilement  He 
who  eats  not  things  that  seem  unclean,  is  him- 
self unclean  and  weak,  he  who  eats,  is  neither. 
Let  us  not  call  such  pure,  they  are  the  unclean. 
He  is  pure,  who  dares  to  feed  upon  all  things. 
All  this  caution  we  ought  to  exercise  towards 
the  things  that  defile  the  soul.  For  that  is  un- 
cleanness, that  is  defilement.  None  of  these 
things  is  so.  Those  who  have  a  vitiated  palate 
think  what  is  set  before  them  is  unclean,  but 
this  is  the  effect  of  their  disorder.  It  becomes 
us  therefore  to  understand  the  nature  of  things 
pure,  and  things  unclean. 

Moral.  What  then  is  unclean?  Sin,  malice, 
covetousness,  wickedness.4  As  it  is  written : 
"  Wash  you,  make  you  clean,  put  away  the  evil 
of  your  doings."  (Isa.  i.  16.)  "  Create  in  me  a 
clean  heart,  O  God."  (Ps.  Ii.  10.)  "Depart 
ye,  depart  ye,  go  ye  out  from  thence,  touch  no 
unclean  thing."  (Isa.  lii.  52.)  These  observ- 
ances were  emblems  of  purifications.5  "  Touch 
not  a  dead  body,"  it  is  said.  For  sin  is  such,  it 
is  dead  and  offensive.  "  The  leper  is  unclean." 
For  sin  is  a  leprosy,  various  and  multiform. 
And  that  they  had  this  meaning,  appears  from 
what  follows.  For  if  the  leprosy  is  general,  and 
overspreads  the  whole  body,  he  is  clean ;  if  it 
is  partial,  he  is  unclean.  Thus  you  see  that 
what  is  various  and  changeable  is  the  unclean 
thing.  He  again  whose  seed  passes  from  him 
is  unclean,  consider  one  that  is  so  in  soul,  cast- 
ing away  his  seed.  He  who  is  uncircumcised 
is  unclean.  These  things  are  not  allegorical6 
but  typical,  for  he  who  does  not  cut  off  the 
wickedness  of  his  heart  is  the  unclean  person. 
He  who  worketh  on  the  Sabbath  is  to  be  stoned, 
that  is,  he  who  is  not  at  all  times  devoted  to 
God,  shall  perish.7    You  see  how  many  varieties 


*  al.  "  the  notion,"  vnovoia,  and  so  B. ;  it  is  better  than  atorou. 

4  Sav.  "  fornication,"  but  wovrfpia  is  repeated  in  the  next  quota- 
tion, and  has  most  authority. 

s  al  "  of  unc leannesses. ' 

8  This  hardly  makes  sense.  Read  a\n$tia.  for  oAAiryopU. 
"  These  things  are  not  truth,  but  types,"  which  is  his  usual  way  of 
speaking.    Just  above,  Savile's  text  is  followed. 

7  See  on  Stat.  Horn.  xit..  where  it  appears  that  he  does  not  ex- 
clude a  reference  to  the  Lord  s  Day. 


Homily  IV.] 


HOMILIES   ON   TITUS. 


531 


of  uncleanness  there  are.  The  woman  in  child- 
bed is  unclean.  Yet  God  made  child-birth, 
and  the  seed  of  copulation.  Why  then  is  the 
woman  unclean,  unless  something  further  was 
intimated?  And  what  was  this?  He  intended 
to  produce  piety  in  the  soul,  and  to  deter  it 
from  fornication.  For  if  she  is  unclean  who  has 
borne  a  child,  much  more  she  who  has  com- 
mitted fornication.  If  to  approach  his  own 
wife  is  not  altogether  pure,  much  less  to  have 
intercourse  with  the  wife  of  another.  He  who 
attends  a  funeral  is  unclean,  much  more  he  who 
has  mixed  in  war  and  slaughter.  And  many 
kinds  of  uncleanness  would  be  found,  if  it  were 
necessary  to  recount  them  all.  But  these  things 
are  not  now  required  of  us.  But  all  is  trans- 
ferred to  the  soul. 

For  bodily  things  are  nearer  to  us,  from  these 
therefore  he  introduced  instruction.  But  it  is 
not  so  now.  For  we  ought  not  to  be  confined 
to  figures,  and  shadows,  but  to  adhere  to  the 
truth,  and  to  uphold  it :  sin  is  the  unclean  thing. 
From  that  let  us  flee,  from  that  let  us  abstain. 
"  If  thou  comest  near  it,  it  will  bite 1  thee." 
(Ecclus.  xxi.  2.)  Nothing  is  more  unclean 
than  covetousness.  Whence  is  this  manifest? 
From  the  facts  themselves.  For  what  does  it 
not  defile?  the  hands,  the  soul,  the  very  house 
where  the  ill-gotten  treasure  is  laid  up.  But  the 
Jews  consider  this  as  nothing.  And  yet  Moses 
carried  off  the  bones  of  Joseph.  Samson  drank 
from  the  jawbone  of  an  ass,  and  ate  honey  from 
the  lion,  and  Elijah  was  nourished  by  ravens, 
and  by  a  widow  woman.  And  tell  me,  if  we 
were  to  be  precise  about  these  things,  what  can 
be  more   unclean   than  our  books,  which   are 


made  of  the  skins  of  animals?  The  fornicator, 
then,  is  not  the  only  one  that  is  unclean,  but 
others  more  than  he,  as  the  adulterer.  But 
both  the  one  and  the  other  are  unclean,  not  on 
account  of  the  intercourse,  (for  according  to 
that  reasoning  a  man  cohabiting  with  his  own 
wife  would  be  unclean,)  but  because  of  the 
wickedness  of  the  act,  and  the  injury  done  to 
his  neighbor  in  his  nearest  interests.  Dost  thou 
see  that  it  is  wickedness  that  is  unclean?  He 
who  had  two  wives  was  not  unclean,  and  David 
who  had  many  wives  was  not  unclean.  But 
when  he  had  one  unlawfully,  he  became  unclean. 
Why?  Because  he  had  injured  and  defrauded 
his  neighbor.  And  the  fornicator  is  not  unclean 
on  account  of  the  intercourse,  but  on  account 
of  the  manner  of  it,  because  it  injures  the 
woman,  and  they  injure  one  another,  making 
the  woman  common,  and  subverting  the  laws  of 
nature.  For  she  ought  to  be  the  wife  of  one 
man,  since  it  is  said,  "  Male  and  female  created 
He  them."  (Gen.  i.  27.)  And,  "they  twain 
shall  be  one  flesh."  Not  "  those  many,"  but 
"  they  twain  shall  be  one  flesh."  Here  then  is 
injustice,  and  therefore  the  act  is  wicked.  Again, 
when  anger  exceeds  due  measure,  it  makes  a 
man  unclean,  not  in  itself,  but  because  of  its 
excess.  Since  it  is  not  said,  "  He  that  is  angry," 
merely,  but  "angry  without  a  cause."  Thus 
every  way  to  desire  overmuch  is  unclean,  for  it 
proceeds  from  a  greedy  and  irrational  disposi- 
tion. Let  us  therefore  be  sober,  I  beseech  you, 
let  us  be  pure,  in  that  which  is  real  purity,  that 
we  may  be  thought  worthy  to  see  God,  through 
Jesus  Christ  our  Lord,  with  whom,  &c. 


HOMILY    IV. 

Trrus  ii.  2-5. 


That  the  aged  men  be  sober,  grave,  temperate,  sound 
in  faith,  in  charity,  in  patience.  The  aged  women 
likewise,  that  they  be  in  behavior  as  becometh  holi- 
ness, not  false  accusers,  not  given  to  much  wine, 
teachers  of  good  things;  That  they  may  teach  the 
young  women  to  be  sober,  to  love  their  husbands, 
to  love  their  children,  To  be  discreet,  chaste,  keep- 
ers at  home,  good,  obedient  to  their  own  husbands, 
that  the  word  of  God  be  not  blasphemed." 


There  are  some  failings  which  age  has,  that 
youth  has  not.  Some  indeed  it  has  in  common 
with  youth,  but  in  addition  it  has 2  a  slowness,  a 


1  Sav.  £ij£f  rcu,  which  reading  Ben.  unaccountably  neglects,  hav-  i 
ing  &<$trcu,  and  in  Lat.  suscipiet. 

*  MS.  Colb.  "  And  youth  indeed  has  many  faults,  old  age  how- 
ever has." 


timidity,  a  forgetfulness,  an  insensibility,  and  an 
irritability.  For  this  reason  he  exhorts  old 
men  concerning  these  matters,  "  to  be  vigilant."* 
For  there  are  many  things  which  at  this  period 
make  men  otherwise  than  vigilant,  especially 
what  I  mentioned,  their  general  insensibility, 
and  the  difficulty  of  stirring  or  exciting  them. 
Wherefore  he  also  adds,  "grave,  temperate.' * 4 
Here  he  means  prudent.  For  temperance  is 
named  from  the  well- tempered5  mind.  For 
there  are,  indeed  there  are,  among  the  old, 
some  who  rave  and  are  beside  themselves,  some 
from  wine,  and  some  from  sorrow.  For  old  age 
makes  them  narrowminded. 


»  vrrt>a\iov<.     E.  V.  "  sober."     [R.  V.  "  temperate."  —  P.S.] 
*  [R.  V.  "  soberminded." — P.S.J  3  <r*Kfrpo<rvKi}. 


532 


WORKS   OF   ST.    CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  IV. 


"  Sound  in  faith,  in  charity  [love], in  patience." 
•  He  has  well  added  "  in  patience,"  for  this 
quality  more  especially  befits  old  men. 

Ver.  3.  "  The  aged  women  likewise,  that  they 
be  in  behavior  as  becometh  holiness." 

That  is,  that  in  their  very  dress  and  carriage 
they  exhibit  modesty. 

"  Not  false  accusers,  not  given  to  much  wine." 

For  this  was  particularly  the  vice  of  women 
and  of  old  age.  For  from  their  natural  coldness 
at  that  period  of  life  arises  the  desire  of  wine, 
therefore  he  directs  his  exhortation  to  that  point, 
to  cut  off  all  occasion  of  drunkenness,  wishing 
them  to  be  far  removed  from  that  vice,  and  to 
escape  the  ridicule  that  attends  it.  For  the 
fumes  mount  more  easily  from  beneath,  and  the 
membranes  (of  the  brain)  receive  the  mischief 
from  their  being  impaired  by  age,  and  this 
especially  causes  intoxication.  Yet  wine  is  nec- 
essary at  this  age,  because  of  its  weakness,  but 
much  is  not  required.  Nor  do  young  women 
require  much,  though  for  a  different  reason, 
because  it  kindles  the  flame  of  lust. 

"  Teachers  of  good  things." 

And  yet  thou  forbiddest  a  woman  to  teach ; 
how  dost  thou  command  it  here,  when  elsewhere 
thou  sayest,  "  I  suffer  not  a  woman  to  teach  "? 
(1  Tim.  ii.  12.)  But  mark  what  he  has  added, 
"Nor  to  usurp  authority  over  the  man."  For 
at  the  beginning  it  was  permitted  to  men  to 
teach  both  men  and  women.  But  to  women  it 
is  allowed  to  instruct  by  discourse  at  home. 
But  they  are  nowhere  permitted  to  preside,  nor 
to  extend  their  speech  to  great  length,  where- 
fore he  adds,  "  Nor  to  usurp  authority  over  the 
man." 

Ver.  4.  "That  they  may  teach  the  young 
women  to  be  sober." 

Observe  how  he  binds  the  people  together, 
how  he  subjects  the  younger  women  to  the 
elder.  For  he  is  not  speaking  there  of  daugh- 
ters, but  merely  in  respect  of  age.  Let  each  of 
the  elder  women,  he  means,  teach  any  one  that 
is  younger  to  be  sober. 

"  To  love  their  husbands." 

This  is  the  chief  point  of  all  that  is  good  in 
a  household,  "  A  man  and  his  wife  that  agree 
together."  (Ecclus.  xxv.  1.)  For  where  this 
exists,  there  will  be  nothing  that  is  unpleasant. 
For  where  the  head  is  in  harmony  with  the 
body,  and  there  is  no  disagreement  between 
them,  how  shall  not  all  the  other  members  be  at 
peace  ?  For  when  the  rulers  are  at  peace,  who 
is  there  to  divide  and  break  up  concord  ?  as  on 
the  other  hand,  where  these  are  ill  disposed  to 
each  other,  there  will  be  no  good  order  in  the 
house.  This  then  is  a  point  of  the  highest  im- 
portance, and  of  more  consequence  than  wealth, 
or  rank,  or  power,  or  aught  else.  Nor  has  he 
said  merely  to  be  at  peace,  but  4*  to  love  their 


husbands."  For  where  love  is,  no  discord  will 
find  admittance,  far  from  it,  other  advantages 
too  spring  up. 

"  To  love  their  children."  This  is  well  added, 
since  she  who  loves  the  root,  will  much  more 
love  the  fruit. 

"To  be  discreet,  chaste,  keepers  at  home, 
good."  All  these  spring  from  love.  They 
become  "good,  and  keepers  at  home,"  from 
affection  to  their  husbands. 

"Obedient  to  their  own  husbands,  that  the 
word  of  God  be  not  blasphemed." 

She  who  despises  her  husband,  neglects  also 
her  house ;  but  from  love  springs  great  sober- 
ness, and  all  contention  is  done  away.  And  if 
he  be  a  Heathen,  he  will  soon  be  persuaded ; 
and  if  he  be  a  Christian,  he  will  become  a  better 
man.  Seest  thou  the  condescension  of  Paul? 
He  who  in  everything  would  withdraw  us  from 
worldly  concerns,  here  bestows  his  consideration 
upon  domestic  affairs.  For  when  these  are  well 
conducted,  there  will  be  room  for  spiritual  things, 
but  otherwise,  they  too  will  be  marred.  For 
she  who  keeps  at  home  will  be  also  sober,  she 
that  keeps  at  home  will  be  also  a  prudent  man- 
ager, she  will  have  no  inclination  for  luxury,  un- 
seasonable expenses,  and  other  such  things. 

"  That  the  word  of  God,"  he  says,  "  be  not 
blasphemed." 

See  how  his  first  concern  is  for  the  preaching 
of  the  word,  not  for  worldly  things  ;  for  when  he 
writes  to  Timothy,  he  says,  "  that  we  may  lead 
a  quiet  and  peaceable  life  in  all  godliness  and 
honesty"  (1  Tim.  ii.  2)  ;   and  here,  "that  the 
word  of  God,"    and  the   doctrine,    "be    not 
blasphemed."     For  if  it  should  happen  that  a 
believing   woman,   married    to    an    unbeliever, 
should  not  be  virtuous,  the  blasphemy  is  usually 
carried  on  to  God ;  but  if  she  be  of  good  char- 
acter, the  Gospel  obtains   glory  from  her,  and 
from  her  virtuous  actions.     Let   those  women 
hearken  who  are  united  to  wicked  men  or  un- 
believers ;  let  them  hear,  and  learn  to  lead  them 
to  godliness  by  their  own  example.     For  if  thou 
gain  nothing  else,  and  do  not  attract  thy  husband 
to  embrace  right  doctrines,  yet  thou  hast  stopped 
his  mouth,  and  dost  not  allow  him  to  blaspheme 
Christianity ;  and   this  is   no   mean   thing,  bat 
great  indeed,  that  the  doctrine  should  be  ad- 
mired through  our  conversation. 

Ver.  6.  "  Young  men  likewise  exhort  to  be 
soberminded." 

See  how  he  everywhere  recommends  the  ob- 
servance of  decorum.  For  he  has  committed 
to  women  the  greater  part  in  the  instructioo  of 
women,  having  appointed  the  elder  to  teach  tbe 
younger.  But  the  whole  instruction  of  men  be 
assigns  to  Titus  himself.  For  nothing  is  so  dif- 
ficult for  that  age  as  to  overcome  unlawful  pleas- 
ures.    For  neither  the  love  of  wealth,  nor  the 


Homily  IV.] 


HOMILIES   ON   TITUS. 


533 


desire  of  glory,  or  any  other  thing  so  much  solic- 
its the  young,  as  fleshly  lust.  Therefore  pass- 
ing over  other  things,  he  directs  his  admonition 
to  that  vital  point  Not  however  that  he  would 
have  other  tilings  neglected  ;  for  what  says  he  ? 

Ver.  7.  "  In  all  things  showing  thyself  a  pattern 
of  good  works." 

Let  the  elder  women,  he  says,  teach  the 
younger,  but  do  thou  thyself  exhort  young  men 
to  be  soberminded.  And  let  the  luster  of  thy 
life  be  a  common  school  of  instruction,  a  pattern 
of  virtue  to  all,  publicly  exhibited,  like  some  orig- 
inal model,  containing  in  itself  all  beauties,  af- 
fording examples  whence  those  who  are  willing 
may  easily  imprint  upon  themselves  any  of  its 
excellences. 

Ver.  7,  8.  "  In  [thy]  doctrine  showing  uncor- 
ruptness,  gravity,  sincerity,  Sound  speech  that 
cannot  be  condemned ;  that  he  that  is  of  the 
contrary  part  may  be  ashamed,  having  no  evil 
thing  to  say  of  you." 

By  "him  that  is  of  the  contrary  part,"  he 
means  the  devil,  and  every  one  who  ministers 
to  him.  For  when  the  life  is  illustrious,  and  the 
discourse  corresponds  to  it,  being  meek  and 
gentle,  and  affording  no  handle  to  the  adversa- 
ries, it  is  of  unspeakable  advantage.  Of  great 
use  then  is  the  ministry  of  the  word,  not  any 
common  word,  but  that  which  is  approved,  and 
cannot  be  condemned,  affording  no  pretext  to 
those  who  are  willing  to  censure  it. 

Ver.  9.  "  Exhort  servants  to  be  obedient  to 
their  own  masters,  and  to  please  them  well  in 
all  things." 

Dost  thou  see  what  he  has  previously  said, 
"that  he  that  is  of  the  contrary  part  may  be 
ashamed,  having  no  evil  thing  to  say  of  you." 
He  therefore  is  deserving  of  condemnation,  who 
under  pretense  of  continence  separates  wives 
from  their  husbands,  and  he  who  under  any 
other  pretext  takes  away  servants  from  their 
masters.  This  is  not  "  speech  that  cannot  be 
condemned,"  but  it  gives  great  handle  to  the 
unbelieving,  and  opens  the  mouths  of  all  against 
us. 

"  Not  answering  again." 

Ver.  10.  "  Not  purloining,  but  showing  all 
good  fidelity,  that  they  may  adorn  the  doctrine 
of  Crod  our  Saviour  in  all  things." 

Thus  he  has  well  said  in  another  place,  "  Doing 
service  as  to  the  Lord,  and  not  to  men."  For 
if  thou  servest  thy  master  with  good  will,  yet  the 
occasion  of  this  service  proceeds  from  thy  fear,1 
and  he  who  with  so  great  fear  renders  Him  ser- 
vice, shall  receive  the  greater  reward.  For  if 
*  he  restrain  not  his  hand,  or  his  unruly  tongue, 
how  shall  the  Gentile  admire  the  doctrine  that 
is  among  us  ?     But  if  they  see  their  slave,  who 

1  Le.  of  God. 


has  been  taught  the  philosophy  of  Christ,  dis- 
playing more  self-command  than  their  own  phi- 
losophers, and  serving  with  all  meekness  and 
good  will,  he  will  in  every  way  admire  the  power 
of  the  Gospel.  For  the  Greeks  judge  not  of 
doctrines  by  the  doctrine  itself,  but  they  make 
the  life  and  conduct  the  test  of  the  doctrines. 
I,et  women  therefore  and  servants  be  their  in- 
structors by  their  conversation.  For  both  among 
themselves,  and  everywhere,  it  is  admitted  that 
the  race  of  servants  is  passionate,  not  open  to 
impression,  intractable,  and  not  very  apt  to  re- 
ceive instruction  in  virtue,  not  from  their  nature, 
God  forbid,  but  from  their  ill  breeding,2  and  the 
neglect  of  their  masters.  For  those  who  rule 
them  care  about  nothing  but  their  own  service ; 
or  if  they  do  sometimes  attend  to  their  morals, 
they  do  it  only  to  spare  themselves  the  trouble 
that  would  be  caused  them  by  their  fornication, 
their  thefts,  or  their  drunkenness,  and  being 
thus  neglected  and  having  no  one  to  concern 
himself  about  them,  they  naturally  sink  into  the 
very  depths  of  wickedness.  For  if  under  the 
direction  of  a  father  and  mother,  a  guardian,  a 
master,  and  teacher,  with  suitable  companions, 
with  the  honor  of  a  free  condition,  and  many 
other  advantages,  it  is  difficult  to  escape  inti- 
macies with  the  wicked,  what  can  we  expect 
from  those  who  are  destitute  of  all  these,  and 
are  mixed  up  with  the  wicked,  and  associate 
fearlessly  with  whomsoever  they  will,  no  one 
troubling  herself  about  their  friendships  ?  What 
sort  of  persons  do  we  suppose  they  will  be? 
On  this  account  it  is  difficult  for  any  servant  to 
be  good,  especially  when  they  have  not  the 
benefit  of  instruction  either  from  those  without 
or  from  ourselves.  They  do  not  converse  with 
free  men  of  orderly  conduct,  who  have  a  great 
regard  for  their  reputation.  For  all  these  reasons 
it  is  a  difficult  and  surprising  thing  that  there 
should  ever  be  a  good  servant. 

When  therefore  it  is  seen  that  the  power  of 
religion,  imposing  a  restraint  upon  a  class  natu- 
rally so  self-willed,  has  rendered  them  singularly 
well  behaved  and  gentle,  their  masters,  however 
unreasonable  they  may  be,  will  form  a  high 
opinion  of  our  doctrines.  For  it  is  manifest, 
that  having  previously  infixed  in  their  souls  a 
fear  of  the  Resurrection,  of  the  Judgment,  and 
of  all  those  things  which  we  are  taught  by  our 
philosophy  to  expect  after  death,  they  have  been 
able  to  resist  wickedness,  having  in  their  souls  a 
settled  principle  to  counterbalance  the  pleasures 
of  sin.  So  that  it  is  not  by  chance  or  without 
reason,  that  Paul  shows  so  much  consideration 
for  this  class  of  men :  since  the  more  wicked 
they  are,  the  more  admirable  is  the  power  of 
that   preaching  which  reforms  them.      For  we 

a  Colb.  "  way  oflife." 


534 


WORKS   OF   ST.    CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  IV. 


then  most  admire  a  physician,  when  he  restores 
to  a  healthy  and  sane  state  one  who  was  de- 
spaired of,  whom  nothing  benefited,  who  was 
unable  to  command  his  unreasonable  desires, 
and  wallowed  in  them.  And  observe  what  he 
most  requires  of  them ;  the  qualities  which  con- 
tribute most  to  their  masters'  ease. 

"  Not  answering  again,(  not  purloining  "  ;  that 
is,  to  show  all  good  will  in  matters  intrusted  to 
them,  to  be  particularly  faithful  in  their  masters' 
concerns,  and  obedient  to  their  commands. 

Moral.  •  Do  not  therefore  think  that  I  enlarge 
upon  this  subject  without  a  purpose.  For  the 
rest  of  my  discourse  will  be  addressed  to  ser- 
vants. Look  not  to  this,  my  good  friend,  that 
thou  servest  a  man,  but  that  thy  service  is  to  God, 
that  thou  adornest  the  Gospel.  Then  thou  wilt 
undertake  everything  in  obedience  to  thy  mas- 
ter, bearing  with  him,  though  impatient,  and 
angry  without  a  cause.  Consider  that  thou  art 
not  gratifying  him,  but  fulfilling  the  command- 
ment of  God ;  then  thou  wilt  easily  submit  to 
anything.  And  what  I  have  said  before,  I  re- 
peat here,  that  when  our  spiritual  state  is  right, 
the  things  of  this  life  will  follow.  For  a  servant, 
so  tractable  and  so  well  disposed,  will  not  only 
be  accepted  by  God,  and  made  partaker  of  those 
glorious  crowns,  but  his  master  himself,  whom 
he  serves  so  well,  even  though  he  be  brutish  and 
stone -hearted,  inhuman  and  ferocious,  will  com- 
mend and  admire  him,  and  will  honor  him  above 
all  the  rest,  and  will  set  him  over  their  heads, 
though  he  be  a  Gentile. 

And  that  servants  are  required  to  be  thus  dis- 
posed towards  a  Gentile  master,  I  will  show  you 
by  an  example.  Joseph,  who  was  of  a  different 
religion  from  the  Egyptian,  was  sold  to  the  chief 
cook.1  What  then  did  he  ?  When  he  saw  the 
young  man  was  virtuous,  he  did  not  consider  the 
difference  of  their  religion,  but  loved  and  favored 
and  admired  him,  and  committed  the  others  to 
his  superintendence,  and  knew  nothing  of  the 
affairs  of  his  own  house  because  of  him.  Thus 
he  was  a  second  master,  and  even  more  of  a 
master  than  his  lord,  for  he  knew  more  of  his 
master's  affairs  than  his  master  himself.  And 
even  afterwards,  as  it  seems  to  me,  when  he  be- 
lieved the  unjust  accusation  framed  against  him 
by  his  wife,  yet  from  his  former  regard  for  him, 
retaining  a  respect  for  that  just  man,  he  satisfied 
his  resentment  with  imprisonment.  For  if  he 
had  not  greatly  reverenced  and  esteemed  him 
from  his  former  conduct,  he  would  have  thrust 
his  sword  through  his  body,  and  dispatched  him 
at  once.  "  For  jealousy  is  the  rage  of  a  man  ; 
therefore  he  will  not  regard  any  ransom,  neither 
will  he  rest  content,  though  thou  givest  many 
gifts."    (Prov.  vi.  34,  35.)   And  if  such  is  the  jeal- 


1  So  Sept..  ficn.  xxxi.v.  1 :  comp.  on  Stat.  Horn.  xix.  n. 


ousy  of  men  in  general,  much  more  violent  must  it 
have  been  with  him,  an  Egyptian  and  barbarian, 
and  injured  as  he  thought  by  one  whom  he  had 
honored.  For  you  all  know  that  injuries  do  not 
affect  us  in  the  same  way  from  all  persons,  but 
that  those  grieve  us  most  bitterly  and  deeply 
which  proceed  from  those  who  were  well-affected 
toward  us,  who  had  trusted  us  and  whom  we  had 
trusted,  and  who  had  received  many  kindnesses 
from  us.  He  did  not  consider  with  himself,  nor 
say,  What !  have  I  taken  a  servant  into  my 
house,  shared  with  him  my  substance,  made  him 
free,  and  even  greater  than  myself,  and  is  this 
the  return  that  he  makes  me  ?  He  did  not  say 
this,  so  much  was  his  mind  prepossessed  by  his 
previous  respect  for  him. 

And  what  wonder  if  he  enjoyed  so  much 
honor  in  the  house,  when  we  see  what  great 
regard  he  obtained  even  in  a  prison.  You  know 
how  practiced  in  cruelty  are  the  dispositions  of 
those  who  have  the  custody  of  prisons.  They 
profit  by  the  misfortune  of  others,  and  harass 
those  whom  others  support  in  their  afflictions, 
making  a  gain  of  them  that  is  truly  deplorable, 
with  a  more  than  brutal  cruelty.  For  they  take 
advantage  of  those  wretched  circumstances  which 
ought  to  excite  their  pity.  And  we  may  further 
observe,  that  they  do  not  treat  in  the  same  man- 
ner all  their  prisoners ;  for  those  who  are  con- 
fined upon  accusation  only,  and  who  are  injuri- 
ously treated,  they  perhaps  pity,  but  they  punish 
with  numberless  inflictions  those  who  are  im- 
prisoned for  shameful  and  atrocious  crimes.  So 
that  the  keeper  of  the  prison  not  only  from  the 
manner  of  such  men  might  have  been  expected 
to  be  inhuman,  but  from  .the  cause  for  which  he 
was  imprisoned.  For  who  would  not  have  been 
incensed  against  a  young  man,  who  having  been 
raised  to  so  great  honor,  was  charged  with  re- 
quiting such  favors  by  a  base  attempt  upon  the 
master's  wife.  Would  not  the  keeper,  consider- 
ing these  things,  the  honor  to  which  he  had 
been  raised,  and  the  crime  for  which  he  was  im- 
prisoned, would  he  not  have  treated  him  with 
more  than  brutal  cruelty?  But  he  was  raised 
above  all  these  things  by  his  hope  in  God.  For 
the  virtue  of  the  soul  can  mollify  even  wild 
beasts.  And  by  the  same  meekness  which  had 
gained  his  master,  he  captivated  also  the  keeper 
of  the  prison.  Thus  Joseph  was  again  a  ruler, 
he  ruled  in  the  prison  as  he  had  ruled  in  the 
house.  For  since  he  was  destined  to  reign,  it 
was  fit  that  he  should  learn  to  be  governed,  and 
while  he  was  governed  he  became  a  governor, 
and  presided  in  the  house. 

For  if  Paul  requires  this  of  one  who  is2  pro- 
moted to  a  Church,  saying,  "  If  a  man  know  not 
how  to  rule  his  own  house,  how  shall  he  take 

2  iXxofitvov,  literally,  "  dragged " ;  see  on  Stat.  Horn.  i.  16. 


Homily  V.] 


HOMILIES   ON    TITUS. 


535 


care  of  the  Church  of  God?"  (i  Tim.  iii.  5),  it 
was  fit  that  he  who  was  to  be  a  governor,  should 
first  be  an  excellent  ruler  of  the  house.  He 
presided  over  the  prison,  not  as  over  a  prison, 
but  as  if  it  had  been  a  house.  For  he  alleviated 
the  calamities  of  all,  and  took  charge  of  those 
who  were  imprisoned  as  if  they  had  been  his 
own  members,  not  only  taking  an  interest  in 
their  misfortunes  and  consoling  them,  but  if  he 
saw  any  one  absorbed  in  thought,  he  went  to  him 
and  enquired  the  cause,  and  could  not  bear  even 
to  see  any  one  dejected,  or  be  easy  till  he  had 
relieved  his  dejection.  Such  love  as  this,  many 
a  one  has  not  shown  even  to  his  own  children. 
And  to  these  things  may  be  traced  the  beginning 
of  his  good  fortune.  For  our  part  must  go 
before,  and  then  the  blessing  of  God  will  follow. 

For  that  he  did  show  this  care  and  concern 
we  learn  from  the  story.     He  saw,  it  is  said,  two 
eunuchs  who   had  been   cast   into   prison    by 
Pharaoh,    his    chief    butler   and    chief    baker, 
and  he  said,  "Wherefore  look  ye  so  sadly  to- 
day?"      (Gen.   xl.    7.)      And   not   from    this 
question  only,  but  from  the  conduct  of  these 
men,  we  may  discern  his  merit.     For,  though 
they  were  the  officers  of  the  king,  they  did  not ' 
despise  him,  nor  in  their  despair  did  they  reject ' 
his  services,  but  they  laid  open  to  him  all  their , 
secret,  as  to  a  brother  who   could  sympathize j 
with  them. 

And  all  this  has  been  said  by  me  to  prove, 
that  though  the  virtuous  man  be  in  slavery,  in 
captivity,  in  prison  ;  though  he  be  in  the  depth , 


of  the  earth,  nothing  will  be  able  to  overcome 
him.  This  I  have  said  to  servants,  that  they 
may  learn  that  though  they  have  masters  that 
are  very  brutes,  as  this  Egyptian,  or  ferocious  as 
the  keeper  of  the  prison,  they  may  gain  their 
regard,  and  though  they  be  heathen  as  they  were, 
or  whatever  they  be,  they  may  soon  win  them 
to  gentleness.  For  nothing  is  more  engaging 
than  good  manners,  nothing  more  agreeable  and 
delightful  than  meekness,  gentleness,  and  obedi- 
ence. A  person  of  this  character  is  suitable  to 
all.  Such  an  one  is  not  ashamed  of  slavery,  he 
does  not  avoid  the  poor,  the  sick,  and  the  infirm. 
For  virtue  is  superior,  and  prevails  over  every- 
thing. And  if  it  has -such  power  in  slaves,  how 
much  more  in  those  who  are  free?  This  then 
let  us  practice,  whether  bond  or  free,  men  or 
women.  Thus  we  shall  be  loved  both  by  God 
and  men ;  and  not  only  by  virtuous  men,  but  by 
the  wicked;  nay  by  them  more  especially,  for 
they  more  especially  honor  and  respect  virtue. 
For  as  those  who  are  under  rule  stand  most  in 
awe  of  the  meek,  so  do  the  vicious  most  revere 
the  virtuous,  knowing  from  what  they  themselves 
have  fallen.  Since  such  then  is  the  fruit  of  vir- 
tue, this  let  us  pursue,  and  attain.  If  we  adhere 
to  this,  nothing  will  be  formidable,  but  all  things 
easy  and  manageable.  And  though  we  pass 
through  the  fire  and  through  the  water,  all 
things  yield  to  virtue,  even  death  itself.  Let  us 
then  be  zealous  in  the  pursuit  of  it,  that  we  may 
attain  the  good  things  to  come,  in  Jesus  Christ 
our  Lord,  with  whom,  &c. 


HOMILY    V. 


Trrus  ii.  n-14. 


n 


For  the  grace  of  God  that  bringeth  salvation  hath  ap- 
peared unto  all  men,  Teaching  them  that,  denying 
ungodliness  and  worldly  lusts,  we  should  live  soberly, 
righteously,  and  godly,  in  this  present  world ;  look- 
ing for  that  blessed  hope,  and  the  glorious  appearing 
of  the  great  God  and  our  Saviour  Jesus  Christ;  who 
gave  Himself  for  us,  that  He  might  redeem  us  from 
all  iniquity,  and  purify  unto  Himself  a  peculiar 
people,  zealous  of  good  works." 


Having  demanded  from  servants  so  great  vir- 
tue, for  it  is  great  virtue  to  adorn  the  doctrine  of  j 
our  God  and  Saviour  in  all  things,  and  charged 
them  to  give  no  occasion  of  offense  to  their  mas- 
ters, even  in  common  matters,  he  adds  the  just 
cause,  why  servants  should  be  such  :  "  For  the 
grace  of  God,  that  bringeth  salvation,  hath  ap- 


peared." Those  who  have  God  for  their  Teach- 
er,1 may  well  be  such  as  I  have  described,  seeing 
their  numberless  sins  have  been  forgiven  to  them. 
For  you  know  that  in  addition  to  other  consid- 
erations, this  in  no  common  degree  awes  and 
humbles  the  soul,  that  when  it  had  innumerable 
sins  to  answer  for,  it  received  not  punishment, 
but  obtained  pardon,  and  infinite  favors.  For 
if  one,  whose  servant  had  committed  many  of- 
fenses, instead  of  scourging  him  with  thongs, 
should  grant  him  a  pardon  for  all  those,  but 
should  require  an  account  of  his  future  conduct, 
and  bid  him  beware  of  falling  into  the  same 
faults  again,  and  should  bestow  high  favors  upon 


»  Colb.  "  a  Divine  Teacher." 


536 


WORKS   OF   ST.    CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  V. 


him,  who  do  you  think  would  not  be  overcome 
at  hearing  of  such  kindness  ?  But  do  not  think 
that  grace  stops  at  the  pardon  of  former  sins  — 
it  secures  us  against  them  in  future,  for  this  also 
is  of  grace.  Since  if  He  were  never  to  punish 
those  who  still  do  amiss,  this  would  not  be  so 
much  grace,  as  encouragement  to  evil  and  wick- 
edness. 

"  For  the  grace  of  God,"  he  says,  "  hath  ap- 
peared, teaching  us  that,  denying  ungodliness 
and  worldly  lusts,  we  should  live  soberly,  right- 
eously, and  godly  in  the  present  world  ;  looking 
for  the  blessed  hope,  and  the  glorious  appearing 
of  the  great  God  and  our  Saviour  Jesus  Christ." 
See,  how  together  with  the  rewards  he  places 
the  virtue.  And  this  is  of  grace,  to  deliver  us 
from  worldly  things,  and  to  lead  us  to  Heaven. 
He  speaks  here  of  two  appearings ;  for  there 
are  two ;  the  first  of  grace,  the  second  of  retri- 
bution and  justice. 

"  That  denying  ungodliness,"  he  says,  "  and 
worldly  lusts." 

See  here  the  foundation  of  all  virtue.  He 
has  not  said  "avoiding,"  but  "denying."  De- 
nying implies  the  greatest  distance,  the  greatest 
hatred  and  aversion.  With  as  much  resolution 
and  zeal  as  they  turned  from  idols,  with  so  much 
let  them  turn  from  vice  itself,  and  worldly  lusts. 
For  these  too  are  idols,  that .  is,  worldly  lusts, 
and  covetousness,  and  this  he  names  idolatry. 
Whatever  things  are  useful  for  the  present  life 
are  worldly  lusts,1  whatever  things  perish  with 
the  present  life  are  worldly  lusts.  Let  us  then 
have  nothing  to  do  with  these.  Christ  came, 
"that  we  should  deny  ungodliness." *  Ungodli- 
ness relates  to  doctrines,  worldly  lusts  to  a  wicked 
life. 

"  And  should  live  soberly,  righteously,  and 
godly  in  the  present  world." 

Dost  thou  see,  what  I  always  affirm,  that  it  is 
not  sobriety  only  to  abstain  from  fornication, 
but  that  we  must  be  free  from  other  passions. 
So  then  he  who  loves  wealth  is  not  sober.  For 
as  the  fornicator  loves  women,  so  the  other  loves 
money,  and  even  more  inordinately,  for  he  is 
not  impelled  by  so  strong  a  passion.  And  he 
is  certainly  a  more  powerless8  charioteer  who 
cannot  manage  a  gentle  horse,  than  he  who  can- 
not restrain  a  wild  and  unruly  one.  What  then  ? 
says  he,  is  the  love  of  wealth  weaker  than  the 
love  of  women?  This  is  manifest  from  many 
reasons.  In  the  first  place,  lust  springs  from 
the  necessity  of  nature,  and  what  arises  from  this 
necessity  must  be  difficult  to  restrain,  since  it  is 
implanted  in  our  nature.  Secondly,  because  the 
ancients  had  no  regard  for  wealth,  but  for  women 
they  had  great  regard,  in  respect  of  their  chastity. 


1  Two  MSS.  add, "  Whatever  things  go  not  with  us  to  heaven  are 
worldly  lusts." 

*  acrc/Sciav.  *  ajcparrj*. 


And  no  one  blamed  him  who  cohabited  with  his 
wife  according  to  law,  even  to  old  age,  but  all 
blamed  him  who  hoarded  money.     And  many 
of  the  Heathen  philosophers  despised  money, 
but  none  of  them  were  indifferent  to  women,  so 
that  this  passion  is  more  imperious  than  the 
other.    But  since  we  are  addressing  the  Church, 
let  us  not  take  our  examples  from  the  Heathens. 
but  from  the  Scriptures.     This  then  the  blessed 
Paul  places  almost  in  the  rank  of  a  command. 
"  Having  food  and  raiment,  let  us  be  therewith 
content."4     (i  Tim.  vi.  8.)      But  concerning 
women  he  says,  "  Defraud  ye  not  one  the  other, 
except  it  be  with  consent"  —  and  "come   to- 
gether again."     (i  Cor.  vii.  5.)     And  you  see 
him  often  laying  down  rules  for  a  lawful  inter- 
course, and  he  permits  the  enjoyment  of  this 
desire,  and  allows  of  ax  second  marriage,  and 
bestows  much  consideration  upon  the  matter, 
and  never  punishes  on  account  of  it     But  he 
everywhere  condemns  him  that  is  fond  of  money. 
Concerning  wealth  also  Christ  often  commanded 
that  we  should  avoid  the  corruption  of  it,  but 
He  says  nothing  about  abstaining  from  a  wife. 
For  hear  what   He  says  concerning    money ; 
"Whosoever  forsaketh  not  all  that   he   hath" 
(Luke  xiv.  33)  ;  but  he  nowhere  says,  "Who- 
soever forsaketh  not  his  wife  "  ;  for  he  knew  how 
imperious  that  passion  is.    And  the  blessed  Paul 
says,  "  Marriage  is  honorable  in  all,  and  the  bed 
undefiled  "  (Heb.  xiii.  4)  ;  but  he  has  nowhere 
said  that  the  care  of  riches  is  honorable,  but  the 
reverse.     Thus  he  says  to  Timothy,  "  They  that 
will  be  rich  fall  into  temptation  and  a  snare,  and 
into  many  foolish  and  hurtful  lusts."     (1  Tim. 
vi.  9.)     He  says  not,  they  that  will  be  covetous, 
but,  they  that  will  be  rich. 

And  that  you  may  learn  from  the  common 
notions  the  true  state  of  this  matter,  it  must  be 
set  before  you  generally.  If  a  man  were  once 
for  all  deprived  of  money,  he  would  no  longer 
be  tormented  with  the  desire  of  it,  for  nothing 
so  much  causes  the  desire  of  wealth,  as  the  pos- 
session of  it.  But  it  is  not  so  with  respect  to 
lust,  but  many  who  have  been  made  eunuchs 
have  not  been  freed  from  the  flame  that  burned 
within  them,  for  the  desire  resides  in  other 
organs,  being  seated  inwardly  in  our  nature. 
To  what  purpose  then  is  this  said  ?  Because  the 
covetous  is  more  intemperate  than  the  fornica- 
tor, inasmuch  as  the  former  gives  way  to  a 
weaker  passion.  Indeed  it  proceeds  less  from 
passion  than  from  baseness  of  mind.  But  lust 
is  natural,  so  that  if  a  man  does  not  approach  a 
woman,  nature  performs  her  part  and  operation. 
But  there  is  nothing  of  this  sort  in  the  case  of 


avarice. 


4  Two  MSS.  and  Old  Lat.  add,  "And  about  virgin*  what  says 
he  ?  *  I  have  no  commandment  of  the  Lord.' "  Which  Monlf.  rejects 
with  little  reason. 


Homily  V.] 


HOMILIES  ON   TITUS. 


537 


it 


That  we  should  live  godly  in  this  present 
world." 

And  what  is  this  hope  ?  what  the  reward  of 
our  labors? 

"  Looking  for  the  blessed  hope  and  the  ap- 
pearing." 

For  nothing  is  more  blessed  and  more  desira- 
ble than  that  appearing.  Words  are  not  able  to 
represent  it,  the  blessings  thereof  surpass  our 
understanding. 

"  Looking  for  the  blessed  hope  and  glorious 
appearing  of  our  great  God  and  Saviour."  ' 

Where  are  those  who  say  that  the  Son  is 
inferior  to  the  Father? 

"Our  great  God  and  Saviour."  He  who 
saved  us  when  we  were  enemies.  What  will  He 
not  do  then  when  He  has  us  approved  ?  * 

"  The  great  God."  When  he  says  great  with 
respect  to  God,  he  says  it  wot  comparatively  but 
absolutely,8  after  Whom  no  one  is  great,  since  it 
is  relative.  For  if  it  is  relative,  He  is  great  by 
comparison,  not  great  by  nature.  But  now  He 
is  incomparably  great. 

Ver.  14.  "  Who  gave  Himself  for  us,  that  He 
might  redeem  us  from  all  iniquity,  and  purify 
unto  Himself  a  peculiar  people." 

"  Peculiar " :  that  is,  selected  from  the  rest, 
and  having  nothing  in  common  with  them. 

"Zealous  of  good  works." 

Dost  thou  see  that  our  part  is  necessary,  not 
merely  works,  but  "  zealous  "  ;  we  should  with  all 
alacrity,  with  a  becoming  earnestness,  go  forward 
in  virtue.  For  when  we  were  weighed  down  with 
evils,  and  incurably  diseased,  it  was  of  His  lov- 
ingkindness  that  we  were  delivered.  But  what 
follows  after  this  is  our  part  as  well  as  His. 

Ver.  15.  "These  things  speak  and  exhort, 
and  rebuke  with  all  authority." 

"  These  things  speak  and  exhort."  Do  you 
see  how  he  charges  Timothy  ?  "  Reprove,  re- 
buke, exhort."  But  here,  "  Rebuke  with  all 
authority."  For  the  manners  of  this  people 
were  more  stubborn,  wherefore  he  orders  them 
to  be  rebuked  more  roughly,  and  with  all  au- 
thority. For  there  are  some  sins,  which  ought 
to  be  prevented  by  command.  We  may  with 
persuasion  advise  men  to  despise  riches,  to  be 
meek,  and  the  like.  But  the  adulterer,  the 
fornicator,  the  defrauder,  ought  to  be  brought  to 
a  better  course  by  command.  And  those  who 
are  addicted  to  augury  and  divination,  and  the 
like,  should  be  corrected  "  with  all  authority." 
Observe  how  he  would  have  him  insist  on  these 
things  with  independence,  and  with  entire  free- 
dom.4 

1  This  is  the  meaning,  as  Middle  ton  has  shown.  The  English 
Version,  "  The  great  God  and  our  Saviour,"  is  ambiguous. 

*  Edd.  ovk  tv$oKinovvra<;  Kafiutv.  The  order  does  not  admit  the 
sense,  "  seeing  He  received  us  when  not  appro  veil,"  so  that  this 
would  be,  "  how  will  he  not  punish  us  if  he  finds  us  not  approved  " ; 
but  B.  has  not  the  negative,  which  Downes  had  rejected. 

s  as-oAvrwf.  *  c£ov<riac. 


"  Let  no  man  despise  thee."     But 

Chap.  iii.  1.  "  Put  them  in  mind  to  be  subject 
to  principalities  and  powers,  to  obey  magistrates, 
to  be  ready  to  every  good  work,  to  speak  evil  of 
no  man,  to  be  no  brawlers." 

What  then  ?  even  when  men  do  evil,  may  we 
not  revile  them  ?  nay,  but "  to  be  ready  to  every 
good  work,  to  speak  evil  of  no  man."  Hear  the 
exhortation,  "  To  speak  evil  of  no  man."  Our 
lips  should  be  pure  from  reviling.  For  if  our 
reproaches  are  true,  it  is  not  for  us  to  utter 
them,  but  for  the  Judge  to  enquire  into  the  mat- 
ter. "  For  why,"  he  says,  "  dost  thou  judge  thy 
brother?"  (Rom.  xiv.  10.)  But  if  they  are  not 
true,  how  great  the  fire.5  Hear  what  the  thief 
says  to  his  fellow-thief.  "  For  we  are  also  in  the 
same  condemnation."  (Luke  xxiii.  40.)  We 
are  running  the  same  hazard.6  If  thou  revilest 
others,  thou  wilt  soon  fall  into  the  same  sins. 
Therefore  the  blessed  Paul  admonishes  us  : 
"  Let  him  that  standeth,  take  heed  lest  he  fall." 
(1  Cor.  x.  12.) 

"  To  be  no  brawlers,  but  gentle,  showing  all 
meekness  unto  all  men." 

Unto  Greeks  and  Jews,  to  the  wicked  and  the 
evil.  For  when  he  says,  "  Let  him  that  standeth 
take  heed  lest  he  fall,"  he  wakens  their  fears 
from  the  future ;  but  here,  on  the  contrary,  he 
exhorts  them  from  the  consideration  of  the  past, 
and  the  same  in  what  follows ; 

Ver.  3.  "  For  we  ourselves  also  were  some- 
times foolish." 

Thus  also  he  does  in  his  Epistle  to  the  Gala- 
tians,  where  he  says,  "  Even  so  we,  when  we 
were  children,  were  in  bondage  under  the  ele- 
ments of  the  world."  (Gal.  iv.  4.)  Therefore 
he  says,  Revile  no  one,  for  such  also  thou  wast 
thyself. 

"  For  we  ourselves  also  were  sometimes  fool- 
ish, disobedient,  deceived,  serving  divers  lusts 
and  pleasures,  living  in  malice  and  envy,  hateful, 
and  hating  one  another." 

Therefore  we  ought  to  be  thus  to  all,  to  be 
gently  disposed.  For  he  who  was  formerly  in 
such  a  state,  and  has  been  delivered  from  it, 
ought  not  to  reproach  others,  but  to  pray,  to  be 
thankful  to  Him  who  has  granted  both  to  him 
and  them  deliverance  from  such  evils.  Let  no 
one  boast ;  for  all  have  sinned.  If  then,  doing 
well  thyself,  thou  art  inclined  to  revile  others, 
consider  thy  own  former  life,  and  the  uncertainty 
of  the  future,  and  restrain  thy  anger.7  For  if 
thou  hast  lived  virtuously  from  thy  earliest  youth, 
yet  nevertheless  thou  mayest  have  many  sins ; 
and  if  thou  hast  not,  as  thou  thinkest,  consider 
that  this  is  not  the  effect  of  thy  virtue,  but  of  the 


8  i.e.  hereafter.    See  Horn.  i.  on  Tit.  i.  4,  p.  599,  "how  great  a 
flame." 

*  ayitva. 

•  Colb.  and  Old  Lat.  "  impulse." 


538 


WORKS   OF   ST.   CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  V. 


grace  of  God.  For  if  He  had  not  called  thy 
forefathers,  thou  wouldest  have  been  disobedient. 
See  here  how  he  mentions  every  sort  of  wicked- 
ness. How  many  things  has  not  God  dispensed 
by  the  Prophets  and  all  other  means?  have  we 
heard  ? 

"  For  we,"  he  says,  "  were  once  deceived." 

Ver.  4.'  "  But  after  that  the  kindness  and  love 
of  God  our  Saviour  toward  man  appeared." 
How  ?  "  Not  by  works  of  righteousness  which 
we  have  done,  but  according  to  His  mercy  He 
saved  us,  by  the  washing  of  regeneration,  and 
renewing  of  the  Holy  Ghost." 

Strange  !  How  were  we  drowned *  in  wicked- 
ness, so  that  we  could  not  be  purified,  but 
needed  a  new  birth?  For  this  is  implied  by 
"  Regeneration."  For  as  when  a  house  is  in  a 
ruinous  state  no  one  places  props  under  it,  nor 
makes  any  addition  to  the  old  building,  but 
pulls  it  down  to  its  foundations,  and  rebuilds  it 
anew ;  so  in  our  case,  God  has  not  repaired  us, 
but  has  made  us  anew.  For  this  is  "  the  renew- 
ing of  the  Holy  Ghost."  He  has  made  us  new 
men.  How  ?  "  By  His  Spirit "  ;  and  to  show 
this  further,  he  adds, 

Ver.  6.  "Which  He  shed  on  us  abundantly 
through  Jesus  Christ  our  Saviour." 

Thus  we  need  the  Spirit  abundantly. 

"  That  being  justified  by  His  grace  "  —  again 
by  grace  and  not  by  debt  —  "  we  may  be  made 
heirs  according  to  the  hope  of  eternal  life." 

At  the  same  time  there  is  an  incitement  to 
humility,  and  a  hope  for  the  future.  For  if 
when  we  were  so  abandoned,  as  to  require  to  be 
born  again,  to  be  saved  by  grace,  to  have  no 
good  in  us,  if  then  He  saved  us,  much  more 
will  He  save  us  in  the  world  to  come. 

For  nothing  was  worse  than  the  brutality  of 
mankind  before  the  coming  of  Christ.  They 
were  all  affected  towards  each  other  as  if  enemies 
and  at  war.  Fathers  slew  their  own  sons,  and 
mothers  were  mad  against  their  children.  There 
was  no  order  settled,  no  natural,  no  written  law ; 
everything  was  subverted.  There  were  adul- 
teries continually,  and  murders,  and  things  if 
possible  worse  than  rriurders,  and  thefts  ;  indeed 
we  are  told  by  one  of  the  heathen,  that  this 
practice  was  esteemed  a  point  of  virtue.  And 
naturally,  since  they  worshiped  a  god2  of  such 
character.  Their  oracles  frequently  required 
them  to  put  such  and  such  men  to  death.  Let 
me  tell  you  one  of  the  stories  of  that  time. 
One  Androgeus,  the  son  of  Minos,  coming  to 
Athens,  obtained  a  victory  in  wrestling,  for  which 
he  was  punished  and  put  to  death.  Apollo 
therefore,  remedying  one  evil  by  another,  or- 
dered twice  seven  youths  to  be  executed  on  his 
account.     What  could  be  more  savage  than  this 

1  /Sf/SanTur/xepoi. 
8  Mercury. 


tyrannical  command  ?  And  it  was  executed  too. 
A  man  undertook  to  atone  the  mad  rage  of  the 
demon,  and  slew  these  young  men,  because  the 
deceit  of  the  oracle  prevailed  with  them.  But 
afterwards,  when  the  young  men  resisted  and 
stood  upon  their  defense,  it  was  no  longer  done. 
If  now  it  had  been  just,  it  ought  not  to  have 
been  prevented,  but  if  unjust,  as  undoubtedly  it 
was,  it  ought  not  to  have  been  commanded  at 
all.  Then  they  worshiped  boxers  and  wres- 
tlers. They  waged  constant  wars  in  perpetual 
succession,  city  by  city,  village  by  village,  house 
by  house.  They  were  addicted  to  the  love  of 
boys,  and  one  of  their  wise  men  made  a  law 
that  Pgedrasty,  as  well  as  anointing  for  wres- 
tling,8 should  not  be  allowed  to  slaves,  as  if  it 
was  an  honorable  thing ;  and  they  had  houses 
for  this  purpose,  in  which  it  was  openly  prac- 
ticed. And  if  all  thatfvas  done  among  them  was 
related,  it  would  be  seen  that  they  openly  out- 
raged nature,  and  there  was  none  to  restrain 
them.  Then  their  dramas  were  replete  with 
adultery,  lewdness,  and  corruption  of  every  sort. 
In  their  indecent  nocturnal  assemblies,  women 
were  admitted  to  the  spectacle.  There  was 
seen  the  abomination  of  a  virgin  sitting  in  the 
theater  during  the  night,  amidst  a  drunken  mul- 
titude of  young  men  madly  reveling.  The  very 
festival  was  the  darkness,  and  the  abominable 
deeds  practiced  by  them.  On  this  account  he 
says,  "  For  we  ourselves  also  were  sometimes 
foolish,  disobedient,  deceived,  serving  divers 
lusts  and  pleasures."  One  man  loved  his  step- 
mother,4 a  woman  her  step-son,  and  in  conse- 
quence hung  herself.  For  as  to  their  passion 
for  boys,  whom  they  called  their  "  Paedica,"  it 
is  not  fit  to  be  named.  And  would  you  see  a 
son  married  to  his  mother  ?  This  too  happened 
among  them,  and  what  is  horrible,  though  it  was 
done  in  ignorance,  the  god  whom  they  wor- 
shiped did  not  prevent  it,  but  permitted  this 
outrage  to  nature  to  be  committed,  and  that 
though  she  was  a  person  of  distinction.  And  if 
those,  who,  if  for  no  other  reason,  yet  for  the 
sake  of  their  reputation  with  the  multitude, 
might  have  been  expected  to  adhere  to  virtue  ; 
if  they  rushed  thus  headlong  into  vice,  what  is  it 
likely  was  the  conduct  of  the  greater  part,  who 
lived  in  obscurity?  What  is  more  diversified 
than  this  pleasure  ?  The  wife  of  a  certain  one 
fell  in  love  with  another  man,  and  with  the  help 
of  her  adulterer,  slew  her  husband  upon  his  re- 
turn. The  greater  part  of  you  probably  know 
the  story.  The  son  of  the  murdered  man  killed 
the  adulterer,  and  after  him  his  mother,  then  he 
himself  became  mad,  and  was  haunted  by  furies. 

*  Lit.  "  dryly,"  i.e.  without  the  bath,  as  in  the  case  of  wrestling, 
which  was  practiced  by  all  that  were  free.  _ 

*  Downes  may  be  right  in  taking  this  of  Phoenix,  II.  ix.  45?- 
What  follows  refers  to  Hippolytus,  of  whom  Montfaucon  seems  to 
forget  that  this  could  not  be  said. 


Homily  V.] 


HOMILIES   ON   TITUS. 


539 


After  this  the  madman  himself  slew  another 
man,  and  took  his  wife.  What  can  be  worse 
than  such  calamities  as  these?  But  I  mention 
these  instances  taken  from  the  Heathens,1  with 
this  view,  that  I  may  convince  the  Gentiles,  what 
evils  then  prevailed  in  the  world.  But  we  may 
show  the  same  from  our  own  writings.  For  it 
is  said,  "  They  sacrificed  their  sons  and  daugh- 
ters unto  devils."  (Ps.  cvi.  37.)  Again,  the 
Sodomites  were  destroyed  for  no  other  cause 
than  their  unnatural  appetites.  Soon  after  the 
coming  of  Christ,  did  not  a  king's  daughter 
dance  at  a  banquet  in  the  presence  of  drunken 
men,  and  did  she  not  ask  as  the  reward  of  her 
dancing  the  murder  and  the  head  of  a  Prophet  ? 
4<  Who  can  utter  the  mighty  acts  of  the  Lord?  " 
(Ps.  vi.  2.) 

"  Hateful,"  he  says,  "  and  hating  one  another." 
For  it  must  necessarily  happen,  when  we  let 
loose  every  pleasure  on  the  soul,  that  there 
should  be  much  hatred.  For  where  love  is, 
with  virtue,  no  man  overreacheth  another  in 
any  matter.  Mark  also  what  Paul  says,  "  Be 
not  deceived,  neither  fornicators,  nor  idolaters, 
nor  adulterers,  nor  effeminate,  nor  abusers  of 
themselves  with  mankind,  nor  covetous,  nor 
drunkards,  nor  revilers,  shall  inherit  the  king- 
dom of  God.  And  such  were  some  of  you." 
(1  Cor.  vi.  9,  10.)  Dost  thou  see  how  every 
species  of  wickedness  prevailed  ?  It  was  a  state 
of  gross  darkness,  and  the  corruption  of  all  that 
was  right.  For  if  those  who  had  the  advantage 
of  prophecies,  and  who  saw  so  many  evils  in- 
flicted upon  their  enemies,  and  even  upon  them- 
selves, nevertheless  did  not  restrain  themselves, 
but  committed  numberless  foolish  crimes,  what 
would  be*  the  case  with  others  ?  One  of  their 
lawgivers  ordered  that  virgins  should  wrestle 
naked  in  the  presence  of  men.  Many  blessings 
on  you  !  that  ye  cannot  endure  the  mention  of 
it ;  but  their  philosophers  were  not  ashamed 
of  the  actual  practice.  Another,  the  chief  of 
their  philosophers,  approves  of  their  going  out 
to  the  war,  and  of  their  being  common,-  as  if  he 
were  a  pimp  and  pander  to  their  lusts. 

"  Living  in  malice  and  envy." 

For  if  those  who  professed  philosophy  among 
them  made  such  laws,  what  shall  we  say  of  those 
who  were  not  philosophers  ?  If  such  were  the 
maxims  of  those  who  wore  a  long  beard,  and 
assumed  the  grave  cloak,1  what  can  be  said  of 
others  ?  Woman  was  not  made  for  this,  O  man, 
to  be  prostituted  as  common.     O  ye  subverters 


1  His  object  was  probably  to  take  familiar  instances;  these  arc 
chiefly  from  the  Greek  Drama. 

2  This  is  an  unfair  view  of  Plato's  Republic,  against  which,  how- 
ever, it  is  a  real  objection  that  it  sets  aside  a  law  of  nature,  though 
with  political,  and  not  sensual  views.  Some  have  seen  a  great  truth 
allegorized  in  this,  and  it  may  be  justly,  but  ordinary  Greeks  would 
be  more  likely  to  take  it  as  St.  Chrysostom  does,  and  Plato  perhaps 
hints  that  it  would  be  so  in  practice,  b.  viii.  init. 


of  all  decency,  who  use  men,  as  if  they  were 
women,  and  lead  out  women  to  war,  as  if  they 
were  men !  This  is  the  work  of  the  devil,  to 
subvert  and  confound  all  things,  to  overleap  the 
boundaries  that  have  been  appointed  from  the 
beginning,  and  remove  those  which  God  has  set 
to  nature.  For  God  assigned  to  woman  the 
care  of  the  house  only,  to  man  the  conduct  of 
public  affairs.  But  you  reduce  the  head  to  the 
feet,  and  raise  the  feet  to  the  head.  You  suffer 
women  to  bear  arms,  and  are  not  ashamed. 
But  why  do  I  mention  these  things?  They  in- 
troduce on  the  stage  a  woman  that  murders  her 
own  children,  nor  are  they  ashamed  to  stuff  the 
ears  of  men  with  such  abominable  stories. 

Ver.  4.  "  But  after  that  the  kindness  and  love 
of  God  our  Saviour  towards  man  appeared,  Not 
by  works  of  righteousness  which  we  have  done, 
but  according  to  His  mercy  He  saved  us  by  the 
washing  of  regeneration,  and  renewing  of  the 
Holy  Ghost,  which  He  shed  on  us  abundantly 
through  Jesus  Christ  our  Saviour,  that  being 
justified  by  His  grace  we  should  be  made  heirs 
according  to  the  hope  of  eternal  life." 

What  means, "  according  to  the  hope  "  ?  That, 
as  we  have  hoped,  so  we  shall  enjoy  eternal  life, 
or  because  ye  are  even  already  heirs. 

"  This  is  a  faithful  saying." 

Because  he  had  been  speaking  of  things  future 
and  not  of  the  present,  therefore  he  adds,  that 
it  is  worthy  of  credit.  These  things  are  true, 
he  says,  and  this  is  manifest  from  what  has  gone 
before.  For  He  who  ha$  delivered  us  from 
such  a  state  of  iniquity,  and  from  so  many  evils, 
will  assuredly  impart  to  us  the  good  things  to 
come,  if  we  abide  in  grace.  For  all  proceeds 
from  the  same  kind  concern. 

Moral.  Let  us  then  give  thanks  to  God,  and 
not  revile  them ;  nor  accuse  them,  but  rather 
let  us  beseech  them,  pray  for  them,  counsel  and 
advise  them,  though  they  should  insult  and 
spurn  us.  For  such  is  the  nature  of  those  who 
are  diseased.4  But  those  who  are  concerned 
for  the  health  of  such  persons  do  all  things  and 
bear  all  things,  though  it  may  not  avail,  that 
they  may  not  have  themselves  to  accuse  of  neg- 
ligence. Know  ye  not  that  often,  when  a  phy- 
sician despairs  of  a  sick  man,  some  relative 
standing  by  addresses  him,  "  Bestow  further 
attendance,  leave  nothing  undone,  that  I  may 
not  have  to  accuse  myself,  that  I  may  incur  no 
blame,5  no  self-reproach."  Do  you  not  see  the 
great  care  that  near  kinsmen  take  of  their  rela- 
tions, how  much  they  do  for  them,  both  entreat- 
ing the  physicians  to  cure  them,  and  sitting 
perseveringly  beside  them?  Let  us  at  least 
imitate  them.  And  yet  there  is  no  comparison 
between  the  objects  of  our  concern.     For  if  any 

*  voaovvrt*. 

5  fiif&iv  fienfaanai. 


540 


WORKS   OF   ST.    CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  VI. 


one  had  a  son  diseased  in  his  body,  he  could 
not  refuse  to  take  a  long  journey  to  free  him 
from  his  disease.  But  when  the  soul  is  in  a  bad 
state,  no  one  concerns  himself  about  it,  but  we 
all  are  indolent,  all  careless,  all  negligent,  and 
overlook  our  wives,  our  children,  and  ourselves, 
when  attacked  *  by  this  dangerous  disease.  But 
when  it  is  too  late,  we  become  sensible  of  it. 
Consider  how  disgraceful  and  absurd  it  is  to  say 
afterwards,  "we  never  looked  for  it,  we  never 
expected  that  this  would  be  the  event."  And 
it  is  no  less  dangerous  than  disgraceful.  For 
if  in  the  present  life  it  is  the  part  of  foolish  men 
to  make  no  provision  for  the  future,  much  more 
must  it  be  so  with  respect  to  the  next  life,  when 
we  hear  many  counseling  us,  and  informing  us 
what  is  to  be  done,  and  what  not  to  be  done. 
Let  us  then  hold  fast  that  hope.2  Let  us  be 
careful  of  our  salvation,  let  us  in  all  things  call 


upon  God,  that  He  may  stretch  forth  His  hand 
to  us.  How  long  will  you  be  slothful?  How 
long  negligent?  How  long  shall  we  be  careless 
of  ourselves  and  of  our  fellow-servants?  He 
hath  shed  richly  upon  us  the  grace  of  His  Spirit. 
Let  us  therefore  consider  how  great  is  the  grace 
he  has  bestowed  upon  us,  and  let  us  show  as 
great  earnestness  ourselves,  or,  since  this  is  not 
possible,  some,  although  it  be  less.  For  if  after 
this  grace  we  are  insensible,  the  heavier  will  be 
our  punishment.  "For  if  I,"  He  says,  "had 
not  come  and  spoken  unto  them,  they  had  not 
had  sin,  but  now  they  have  no  cloak  for  their 
sin."  (John  xv.  22.)  But  God  forbid  that  this 
should  be  said  of  us,  and  grant  that  we  may  all 
be  thought  worthy  of  the  blessings  promised  to 
those  who  have  loved  Him,  in  Jesus  Christ  our 
Lord,  &c. 


HOMILY    VI. 


Trrus  hi.  8- 11. 


<« 


These  things  I  will  that  thou  affirm  constantly,  that  they 
which  have  believed  in  God  might  be  careful  to 
maintain  good  works.  These  things  are  good  and 
profitable  unto  men.  But  avoid  foolish  questions, 
and  genealogies,  and  contentions,  and  strivings  about 
the  law,  for  they  are  unprofitable  and  vain.  A  man 
that  is  an  heretic  after  the  first  and  second  admoni- 
tion reject.  Knowing  that  he  that  is  such  is  sub- 
verted, and  sinneth,  being  condemned  of  himself." 


Having  spoken  of  the  love  of  God  to  man,  of 
His  ineffable  regard  for  us,  of  what  we  were  and 
what  He  has  done  for  us,  he  has  added,  "These 
things  I  will  that  thou  affirm  constantly,  that 
they  which  have  believed  in  God  might  be  care- 
ful to  maintain  good  works  "  ;  that  is,  Discourse 
of  these  things,  and  from  a  consideration  of  them 
exhort  to  almsgiving.  For  what  has  been  said 
will  not  only  apply  to  humility,  to  the  not  being 
puffed  up,  and  not  reviling  others,  but  to  every 
other  virtue.  So  also  in  arguing  with  the  Co- 
rinthians, he  says, "  Ye  know  that  our  Lord  being 
rich  became  poor,  that  we  through  His  poverty 
might  be  rich."  (2  Cor.  viii.  9.)  Having  con- 
sidered the  care  and  exceeding  love  of  God  for 
man,  he  thence  exhorts  them  to  almsgiving,  and 
that  not  in  a  common  and  slight  manner,  but 
"  that  they  may  be  careful,"  he  says,  "  to  main- 
tain good  works,"  that  is,  both  to  succor  the  in- 
jured, not  only  by  money,  but  by  patronage  and 

•  al.  **  wasting." 

a  So  Ben.  from  Colb.    Sav.  "  this  care." 


protection,  and  to  defend  the  widows  and  or- 
phans, and  to  afford  a  refuge  to  all  that  are 
afflicted.  For  this  is  to  maintain  good  works. 
For  these  things,  he  says,  are  good  and  profita- 
ble unto  men.  "  But  avoid  foolish  questions, 
and  genealogies,  and  contentions,  and  strivings 
about  the  law,  for  they  are  unprofitable  and 
vain."  What  do  these  "genealogies"  mean? 
For  in  his  Epistle  to  Timothy  he  mentions 
"  fables  and  endless  genealogies."  (1  Tim.  i.  4.) 
[Perhaps  both  here  and  there  glancing  at  the 
Jews,  who,  priding  themselves  on  having  Abra- 
ham for  their  forefather,  neglected  their  own 
part.  On  this  account  he  calls  them  both  "  fool- 
ish and  unprofitable  "  ;  for  it  is  the  part  of  folly 
to  confide  in  things  unprofitable.8]  "Conten- 
tions," he  means,  with  heretics,  in  which  he 
would  not  have  us  labor  to  no  purpose,  where 
nothing  is  to  be  gained,  for  they  end  in  nothing. 
For  when  a  man  is  perverted  and  predetermined 
not  to  change  his  mind,  whatever  may  happen, 
why  shouldest  thou  labor  in  vain,  sowing  upon  a 
rock,  when  thou  shouldest  spend  thy  honorable 
toil  upon  thy  own  people,  in  discoursing  with 
them  upon  almsgiving  and  every  other  virtue? 
How  then  does  he  elsewhere  say,  "  If  God  per- 
ad venture  will  give  them  repentance"  (2  Tim.  ii. 
25)  ;  but  here,  "A  man  that  is  an  heretic  after 
the  first  and  second  admonition  reject,  knowing 

3  B.,  Colb.,  and  Old  Lat.  omit  the  part  in  brackets. 


Homily  VI.] 


HOMILIES   ON   TITUS. 


541 


that  he  that  is  such  is  subverted  and  sinneth,  be- 
ing condemned  of  himself"?  In  the  former 
passage  he  speaks  of  the  correction  of  those  of 
whom  he  had  hope,  and  who  had  simply  made 
opposition.  But  when  he  is  known  and  mani- 
fest to  all,  why  dost  thou  contend 1  in  vain  ?  why 
dost  thou  beat  the  air  ?  What  means,  "  being 
condemned  of  himself"?  Because  he  cannot 
say  that  no  one  has  told  him,  no  one  admon- 
ished him ;  since  therefore  after  admonition  he 
continues  the  same,  he  is  self-condemned. 

Ver.  12.  "When  I  shall  send  Artemas  unto 
thee,  or  Tychicus ;  be  diligent  to  come  unto  me 
to  Nicopolis."  What  sayest  thou  ?  After  having 
appointed  him  to  preside  over  Crete,  dost  thou 
again  summon  him  to  thyself?  It  was  not  to 
withdraw  him  from  that  occupation,2  but  to  dis- 
cipline him  the  more  for  it  For  that  he  does 
not  call  him  to  attend  upon  him,  as  if  he  took 
him  everywhere  with  him  as  his  follower,  ap- 
pears from  what  he  adds  : 

"  For  I  have  determined  there  to  winter." 

Now  Nicopolis8  is  a  city  of  Thrace. 

Ver.  14.  "  Bring  Zenas  the  lawyer  and  Apollos 
on  their  journey  diligently,  that  nothing  be  want- 
ing unto  them." 

These  were  not  of  the  number  to  whom 
Churches  had  been  intrusted,  but  of  the  number 
of  his  companions.  But  Apollos  was  the  more 
vehement,  being  "  an  eloquent  man,  and  mighty 
in  the  Scriptures."  (Acts  xviii.  24.)  But  if 
Zenas  was  a  lawyer,  you  say,  he  ought  not  to 
have  been  supported  by  others.  But  by  a  law- 
yer here  is  meant  one  versed  in  the  laws  of  the 
Jews.  And  he  seems  to  say,  supply  their  wants 
abundantly,  that  nothing  may  be  lacking  to 
them. 

Ver.  14,  15.  "  And  let  ours  also  learn  to  main- 
tain good  works  for  necessary  uses,  that  they 
be  not  unfruitful.  All  that  are  with  me  salute 
thee.     Greet  them  that  love  us  in  the  faith." 

That  is,  either  those  that  love  Paul  himself,4 
or  those  men  that  are  faithful. 

"  Grace  be  with  you  all.     Amen." 

How  then  dost  thou  command  him  to  stop 
the  mouths  of  gainsayers,  if  he  must  pass  them 
by  when  they  are  doing  everything  to  their  own 
destruction?5  He  means  that  he  should  not  do 
it  principally  for  their  advantage,  for  being  once 
perverted  in  their  minds,  they  would  not  profit 
by  it.  But  if  they  injured  others,  it  behooved 
him  to  withstand  and  contend  with  them ;  and 
manfully  await6  them,  but  if  thou  art  reduced 


1  m/«Tcv«tc. 

*  Montfaucon'mentions  two  of  this  name  in  Thrace.  Mr.  Gres- 
welJ  takes  this  to  be  in  Epirus. 

4  He  means,  perhaps,  that  "  in  faith  "  (which  has  not  the  article) 
may  be  applied  to  this. 

6  B.  makes  **  When  they  undoing  ererything  for  mischief,"  part 
of  the  answer,  omitting  "  their  own,  and  adding  ainov  in  the  sense 
of  ultro.    Other  copies  vary. 


to  necessity,  seeing  them  destroying  others,  be 
not  silent,  but  stop  their  mouths,  from  regard  to 
those  whom  they  would  destroy.  It  is  not  in- 
deed possible  for  a  zealous  man  of  upright  life 
to  abstain  from  contention,  but  so  do  as  I  have 
said.  For  the  evil  arises  from  idleness  and  a  vain 
philosophy,  that  one  should  be  occupied  about 
words  only.  For  it  is  a  great  injury  to  be  utter- 
ing a  superfluity  of  words,  when  one  ought  to  be 
teaching,  or  praying,  or  giving  thanks.  For  it 
is  not  right  to  be  sparing  of  our  money  but  not 
sparing  of  our  words ;  we  ought  rather  to  spare 
words  than  our  money,  and  not  to  give  ourselves 
up  to  all  sorts  of  persons. 

What  means, "  that  they  be  careful  to  maintain 
good  works"?  That  they  wait  not  for  those 
who  are  in  want  to  come  to  them,  but  that  they 
seek  out  those  who  need  their  assistance.  Thus 
the  considerate  man  shows  his  concern,  and 
with  great  zeal  will  he  perform  this  duty.  For  in 
doing  good  actions,  it  is  not  those  who  receive 
the  kindness  that  are  benefited,  so  much  as  those 
who  do  it  that  make  gain  and  profit,  for  it  gives 
them  confidence  towards  God.  But  in  the  other 
case,  there  is  no  end  of  contention :  therefore 
he  calls  the  heretic  incorrigible.  For  as  to  neg- 
lect those  for  whom  there  is  a  hope  of  conver- 
sion is  the  part  of  slothfulness,  so  to  bestow 
pains  upon  those  who  are  diseased  past  remedy 
is  the  extreme  of  folly  and  madness;  for  we 
render  them  more  bold. 

"  And  let  ours,"  he  says,  "  learn  to  maintain 
good  works  for  necessary  uses,  that  they  be  not 
unfruitful."  You  observe  that  he  is  more  anx- 
ious for  them  than  for  those  who  are  to  receive 
their  kindnesses.  For  they  might  probably  have 
been  brought  on  their  way  by  many  others,  but  I 
am  concerned,  he  says,  for  our  own  friends.  For 
what  advantage  would  it  be  to  them,  if  others 
should  dig  up  treasures,7  and  maintain  their  teach- 
ers ?  This  would  be  no  benefit  to  them,  for  they 
remained  unfruitful.  Could  not  Christ  then,  Who 
with  five  loaves  fed  five  thousand  men,  and  with 
seven  loaves  fed  four  thousand,  could  not  He 
have  supported  Himself  and  His  disciples? 

Moral.  For  what  reason  then  was  He  main- 
tained by  women?  For  women,  it  is  said,  fol- 
lowed Him,  and  ministered  unto  Him.  (Mark 
xv.  41.)  It  was  .to  teach  us  from  the  first  that 
He  is  concerned  for  those  who  do  good.  Could 
not  Paul,  who  supported  others  by  his  own 
hands,  have  maintained  himself  without  assist- 
ance from  others  ?  But  you  see  him  receiving 
and  requesting  aid.  And  hear  the  reason  for  it. 
"  Not  because  I  desire  a  gift,"  he  says,  "  but  I 
desire  fruit  that  may  abound  to  your  account." 


6  vepu<rr«r0<u,  or  as  8.  wtpiiaravo.    Ed.  Par.  proposes  wpooi- 
arturBax,  "  to  resist,"  but  needlessly. 

7  He  probably  means  their  own  stores. 


542 


WORKS   OF   ST.    CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  VI. 


(Phil.  iv.  17.)  And  at  the  beginning  too,  when 
men  sold  all  their  possessions  and  laid  them  at 
the  Apostles'  feet,  the  Apostles,  seest  thou,  were 
more  concerned  for  them  than  for  those  who 
received  their  alms.  For  if  their  concern  had 
only  been  that  the  poor  might  by  any  means  be 
relieved,  they  would  not  have  judged  so  severely 
of  the  sin  of  Ananias  and  Sapphira,  when  they 
kept  back  their  money.  Nor  would  Paul  have 
charged  men  to  give  "not  grudgingly  nor  of 
necessity."  (2  Cor.  ix.  7.)  What  sayest  thou, 
Paul  ?  dost  thou  discourage  giving  to  the  poor  ? 
No,  he  answers ;  but  I  consider  not  their  advan- 
tage only,  but  the  good  of  those  who  give.  Dost 
thou  see,  that  when  the  prophet  gave  that  excel- 
lent counsel  to  Nebuchadnezzar,  he  did  not 
merely  consider  the  poor.  For  he  does  not 
content  himself  with  saying,  Give  to  the  poor ; 
but  what  ?  "  Break  off  thy  sins  by  almsdeeds,1 
and  thine  iniquities  by  showing  mercy  to  the 
poor."  (Dan.  iv.  27.)  Part  with  thy  wealth, 
not  that  others  may  be  fed,  but  that  thou  mayest 
escape  punishment.  And  Christ  again  says, 
"  Go  and  sell  that  thou  hast,  and  give  to  the 
poor  .  .  .  and  come  and  follow  Me."  (Matt.  xix. 
21.)  Dost  thou  see  that  the  commandment  was 
given  that  he  might  be  induced  to  follow  Him  ? 
For  as  riches  are  an  impediment,  therefore  he 
commands  them  to  be  given  to  the  poor,  in- 
structing the  soul  to  be  pitiful  and  merciful,  to 
despise  wealth,  and  to  flee  from  covetousness. 
For  he  who  has  learnt  to  give  to  him  that  needs, 
will  in  time  learn  not  to  receive  from  those  who 
have  to  give.  This  makes  men  like  God.  Yet 
virginity,  and  fasting,  and  lying  on  the  ground, 
are  more  difficult  than  this,  but  nothing  is  so 
strong  and  powerful  to  extinguish  the  fire  of  our 
sins  as  almsgiving.  It  is  greater  than  all  other 
virtues.  It  places  the  lovers  of  it  by  the  side  of 
the  King  Himself,  and  justly.  For  the  effect  of 
virginity,  of  fasting,  of  lying  on  the  ground,  is 
confined  to  those  who  practice  them,  and  no 
other  is  saved  thereby.  But  almsgiving  extends 
to  all,  and  embraces  the  members  of  Christ,  and 
actions  that  extend  their  effects  to  many  are  far 
greater  than  those  which  are  confined  to  one. 

For  almsgiving  is  the  mother  of  love,  of  that 
love,  which  is  the  characteristic  of  Christianity, 
which  is  greater  than  all  miracles,  by  which  the 
disciples  of  Christ  are  manifested.  It  is  the 
medicine  of  our  sins,  the  cleansing  of  the  filth 
of  our  souls,  the  ladder  fixed  to  heaven;  it 
binds  together  the  body  of  Christ.  Would  you 
learn  how  excellent  a  thing  it  is?  In  the  time 
of  the  Apostles,  men  selling  their  possessions 
brought  them  to  them,  and  they  were  distributed. 
For  it  is  said,  "  Distribution  was  made  unto 
every  man  according  as  he  had  need."     (Acts 

1  E.  V.  •'  righteousness." 


'v-  35-)  For  tell  me  how,  setting  aside  the 
future,  and  not  now  considering  the  kingdom 
that  is  to  come,  let  us  see  who  in  the  present 
life  are  the  gainers,  those  who  received,  or  those 
who  gave.  The  former  murmured  and  quar- 
reled with  each  other.  The  latter  had  one 
soul.  "They  were  of  one  heart,  and  of  one 
soul,"  it  is  said,  "  and  grace  was  upon  them  all." 
(Acts  iv.  32.)  And  they  lived  in  great  simplic- 
ity.2 Dost  thou  see  that  they  were  gainers  even 
by  thus  giving?  Tell  me  now,  with  whom  would 
you  wish  to  be  numbered,  with  those  who  gave 
away  their  possessions,  and  had  nothing,  or  with 
those  who  received  even  the  goods  of  others  ? 

See  the  fruit  of  almsgiving,  the  separations 
and  hindrances  were  removed,  and  immediately 
their  souls  were  knit  together.  "  They  were  all 
of  one  heart  and  of  one  soul."  So  that  even 
setting  aside  almsgiving,  the  parting  with  riches 
is  attended  with  gain.  And  these  things  I  have 
said,  that  those  who  have  not  succeeded  to  an 
inheritance  from  their  forefathers  may  not  be 
cast  down,  as  if  they  had  less  than  those  who 
are  wealthy.  For  if  they  please  they  have  more. 
For  they  will  more  reachly  incline  to  almsgiving, 
like  the  widow,  and  they  will  have  no  occasion 
for  enmity  towards  their  neighbor,  and  they  will 
enjoy  freedom  in  every  respect.  Such  an  one 
cannot  be  threatened  with  the  confiscation  of 
his  goods,  and  he  is  superior  to  all  wrongs.  As 
those  who  fly  unincumbered  with  clothes  are 
not  easily  caught,  but  they  who  are  incumbered 
with  many  garments  and  a  long  train  are  soon 
overtaken,  so  it  is  with  the  rich  man  and  the 
poor.  The  one,  though  he  be  taken,  will  easily 
make  his  escape,  whilst  the  other,  though  he  be 
not  detained,  is  incumbered  by  cords  of  his  own, 
by  numberless  cares,  distresses,  passions,  provo- 
cations, all  which  overwhelm  the  soul,  and  not 
these  alone,  but  many  other  things  which  riches 
draw  after  them.  It  is  much  more  difficult  for 
a  rich  man  to  be  moderate  and  to  live  frugally, 
than  for  the  poor,  more  difficult  for  him  to  be 
free  from  passion.  Then  he,  you  say,  will  have 
the  greater  reward.  —  By  no  means. — What,  not 
if  he  overcomes  greater  difficulties? —  But  these 
difficulties  were  of  his  own  seeking.  For  we 
are  not  commanded  to  become  rich,  but  the 
reverse.  But  he  prepares  for  himself  so  many 
stumbling-blocks  and  impediments. 

Others  not  only  divest  themselves  of  riches, 
but  macerate  their  bodies,  as  travelers  in  the 
narrow  way.  Instead  of  doing  this,  thou  heatest 
more  intensely  the  furnace  of  thy  passions,  and 
gettest  more  about  thee.8  Go  therefore  into  the 
broad  way,  for  it  is  that  which  receives  such  as 
thee.     But  the  narrow  way  is  for  those  who  are 

'  Edd.  dx^cAet'ac,  "utility,"  which  makes  little  sense.     R.  r^t 
a^cActac,  which  agrees  with  «<,S«Aotijti,  Acts  ii.  46. 
3  Two  MSS.  have  the  middle  voice. 


Homily  VI.] 


HOMILIES   ON   TITUS. 


543 


afflicted  and  straitened,  who  bear  along  with 
them  nothing  but  those  burdens,  which  they  can 
carry  through  it,  as  almsgiving,  love  for  man- 
kind, goodness,  and  meekness.  These  if  thou 
bearest,  thou  wilt  easily  find  entrance,  but  if 
thou  takest  with  thee  arrogance,  a  soul  inflamed 
with  passions,  and  that  load  of  thorns,  wealth, 
there  is  need  of  wide  room  for  thee  to  pass, 
nor  wilt  thou  well  be  able  to  enter  into  the 
crowd  without  striking  others,  and  coming  down 
upon  them  on  thy  way.  In  this  case  a  wide 
distance  from  others  is  required.  But  he  who 
carries  gold  and  silver,  I  mean  the  achievements 
of  virtue,  does  not  cause  his  neighbors  to  flee 
from  him,  but  brings  men  nearer  to  him,  even  to 
link  themselves  with  him.1  But  if  riches  in  them- 
selves are  thorns,  what  must  covetousness  be? 
Why  dost  thou  take  that  away  with  thee  ?  Is  it 
to  make  the  flame  greater  by  adding  fuel  to  that 
fire?  Is  not  the  fire  of  hell  sufficient?  Con- 
sider how  the  Three  Children  overcame  the 
furnace.  Imagine  that  to  be  hell.  With  tribu- 
lation were  they  plunged  into  it,  bound  and 
fettered ;  but  within  they  found  large  room ; 
not  so  they  that  stood  around  without. 

Something  of  this  kind  even  now  will  be  ex- 
perienced, if  we  will  manfully  resist  the  trials 
that  encompass  us.  If  we  have  hope  in  God, 
we  shall  be  in  security,  and  have  ample  room, 
and  those  who  bring  us  into  these  straits  shall 
perish.  For  it  is  written,  "  Whoso  diggeth  a  pit 
shall  fall  therein."  (Ecclus.  xxvi.  27.)  Though 
they  bind  our  hands  and  our  feet,  the  affliction 
will  have  power  to  set  us  loose.  For  -observe 
this  miracle.  Those  whom  men  had  bound, 
the  fire  set  free.  As  if  certain  persons  were  de- 
livered up  to  the  servants  of  their  friends,  and 
the  servants,  from  regard  to  the  friendship  of 
their  master,  instead  of  injuring  them,  should 
treat  them  with  much  respect ;  so  the  fire,  when 
as  it  knew  that  the  Three  Children  were  the 
friends  of  its  Lord,  burst  their  fetters,  set  them 
free,  and  let  them  go,  and  became  to  them  as 
a  pavement,  and  was  trodden  under  their  feet. 
And  justly,  since  they  had  been  cast  into  it  for 
the  glory  of  God.  Let  us,  as  many  of  us  as  are 
afflicted,  hold  fast  these  examples. 

But  behold,  they  were  delivered  from  their 
affliction,  you  say,  and  we  are  not.  True,  they 
were  delivered,  and  justly ;  since  they  did  not 
enter  into  that  furnace  expecting  deliverance, 
but  as  if  to  die  outright.  For  hear  what  they 
say  :  "  There  is  a  God  in  Heaven,  Who  will  de- 

1  Edd.  <n/p6ia£tt»Taf , "  to  spend  their  lives  with  ";  but  New  Par. 
from  Colb.  a-vvivd^ovra^,  and  so  B. 


liver  us.  But  if  not,  be  it  known  unto  thee,  O 
King,  that  we  will  not  serve  thy  gods,  nor  wor- 
ship the  golden  image  which  thou  hast  set  up." 
(Dan.  iii.  17,  18.)  But  we,  as  if  bargaining  on 
the  chastisements  of  the  Lord,  even  fix  a  time, 
saying,  "  If  He  does  not  show  mercy  till  this 
time."  Therefore  it  is  that  we  are  not  deliv- 
ered. Surely  Abraham  did  not  leave  his  home 
expecting  again  to  receive  his  son,  but  as  pre- 
pared to  sacrifice  him ;  and  it  was  contrary  to 
his  expectation  that  he  received  him  again  safe. 
And  thou,  when  thou  fallest  into  tribulation,  be 
not  in  haste  to  be  delivered,2  prepare  thy  mind 
for  all  endurance,  and  speedily  thou  shalt  be 
delivered  from  thy  affliction.  For  God  brings 
it  upon  thee  for  this  end,  that  He  may  chasten 
thee.  When  therefore  from  the  first  we  learn  to 
bear  it  patiently,  and  do  not  sink  into  despair, 
He  presently  relieves  us,  as  having  effected  the 
whole  matter. 

I  should  like  to  tell  you  an  instructive  story, 
which  has  much  of  profit  in  it.  What  then  is 
it?  Once,  when  a  persecution  arose,  and  a 
severe  war  was  raging  against  the  Church,  two 
men  were  apprehended.  The  one  was  ready  to 
suffer  anything  whatever;  the  other  was  pre- 
pared to  submit  with  firmness  to  be  beheaded, 
but  with  fear  and  trembling  shrunk  from 
other  tortures.  Observe  then  the  dispensation 
towards  these  men.  When  the  judge  was  seated, 
he  ordered  the  one  who  was  ready  to  endure 
anything,  to  be  beheaded.  The  other  he  caused 
to  be  hung  up  and  tortured,  and  that  not 
once  or  twice,  but  from  city  to  city.  Now 
why  was  this  permitted  ?  That  he  might  recover 
through  torments  that  quality  of  mind  which 
he  had  neglected,  that  he  might  shake  off  all 
cowardice,  and  be  no  longer  afraid  to  endure 
anything.  Joseph  too,  when  he  was  urgent  to 
escape  from  prison,  was  left  to  remain  there. 
For  hear  him  saying,  "  Indeed  I  was  stolen 
away  out  of  the  land  of  the  Hebrews ;  but  do 
thou  make  mention  of  me  to  the  king."  (Gen. 
xl.  14,  15.)  And  for  this  he  was  suffered  to 
remain,  that  he  might  learn  not  to  place  hope 
or  confidence  in  men,  but  to  cast  all  upon  God. 
Knowing  these  things  therefore  let  us  give  thanks 
to  God,  and  let  us  do  all  things  that  are  expe- 
dient for  us,  that  we  may  obtain  the  good  things 
to  come,  through  Jesus  Christ  our  Lord,  with 
whom  to  the  Father  be  glory,  with  the  Holy 
Ghost,  now  and  ever,  and  world  without  end. 
Amen. 


*  Two  MSS.  quote  Ecclus.  ii.  a,  "Make  not  haste  in  time  of 
trouble." 


HOMILIES  OF  ST.  JOHN  CHRYSOSTOM, 


ARCHBISHOP   OF   CONSTANTINOPLE, 


ON    THE 


EPISTLE   OF   ST.    PAUL   THE   APOSTLE 


TO 


PHILEMON. 


ARGUMENT. 

First,  it  is  necessary  to  state  the  argument 
of  the  Epistle,  then  also  the  matters  that  are 
questioned  respecting  it.  What  then  is  the 
argument  ?  Philemon  was  a  man  of  admirable 
and  noble  character.  That  he  was  an  admira- 
ble man  is  evident  from  the  fact,  that  his  whole 
household  was  of  believers,1  and  of  such  be- 
lievers as  even  to  be  called  a  Church :  there- 
fore he  says  in  this  Epistle, "  And  to  the  Church 
that  is  in  thy  house."  (v.  2.)  He  bears  wit- 
ness also  to  his  great  obedience,  and  that  "  the 
bowels  of  the  Saints  are  refreshed  in  him." 
(v.  7.)  And  he  himself  in  this  Epistle  com- 
manded him  to  prepare  him  a  lodging,  (v.  22.) 
It  seems  to  me  therefore  that  his  house  was 
altogether2  a  lodging  for  the  Saints.  This  ex- 
cellent3 man,  then,  had  a  certain  slave  named 
Onesimus.  This  Onesimus,  having  stolen  some- 
thing from  his  master,  had  run  away.  For  that 
he  had  stolen,  hear  what  he  says  :  "  If  he  hath 
wronged  thee,  or  oweth  thee  aught,  I  will  repay 
thee."  (v.  18,  19.)  Coming  therefore  to  Paul  at 
Rome,  and  having  found  him  in  prison,  and  hav- 
ing enjoyed  the  benefit  of  his  teaching,  he  there 
also  received  Baptism.  For  that  he  obtained 
there  the  gift  of  Baptism  is  manifest  from  his 
saying,  "  Whom  I  have  begotten  in  my  bonds." 
(v.  10.)     Paul  therefore  writes,  recommending 


1  B.  and  a  Venice  MS.  read  s-tcrrwv. 
to  the  household  as  one. 


Edd.  wurriiv,  which  applies 


*  vamtv  ivtKtv.    The  phrase  occurs  again  in  a  few  lines,  where 
it  is  translated,  "  on  every  account." 

•  Oavfiturrb^  as  before. 


him  to  his  master,  that  on  "every  account  he 
should  forgive  him,  and  receive  him  as  one  now 
regenerate.4 

But  because  some  say,  that  it  was  superflu- 
ous that  this  Epistle  should  be  annexed,  since 
he  is  making  a  request  about  a  small  matter  in 
behalf  of  one  man,  let  them  learn  who  make 
these  objections,  that  they  are  themselves  de- 
serving of  very  many  censures.  For  it  was  not 
only  proper  that  these  small  Epistles,  in  behalf  of 
things  so  necessary,  should  have  been  inscribed,* 
but  I  wish  that  it  were  possible  to  meet  with 
one  who  could  deliver  to  us  the  history  of  the 
Apostles,  not  only  all  they  wrote  and  spoke  of, 
but  of  the  rest  of  their  conversation,  even  what 
they  ate,  and  when  they  ate,  when  they  walked, 
and  where  they  sat,6  what  they  did  every  day, 
in  what  parts  they  were,  into  what  house  they 
entered,  and  where  they  lodged7  —  to  relate 
everything  with  minute  exactness,  so  replete 
with  advantage  is  all  that  was  done  by  them. 
But  the  greater  part,  not  knowing  the  benefit 
that  would  result  thence,  proceed  to  censure  it. 

For  if  only  seeing  those  places  where  they 
sat  or  where  they  were  imprisoned,  mere  life- 
less spots,  we  often  transport  our  minds  thither, 
and  imagine  their  virtue,  and  are  excited  by  it, 


4  B.  and  Ven.  here  add,  "  And  on  this  score  forgive  htm  every- 
thing. And  so  much  for  the  argument.  Now  let  us  proceed  to  the 
solution  of  the  questions.  Inasmuch  as  some  venture  to  say,"  &c. 
and  presently,  "  For  I  say  not  only  this,  that  it  was  proper,  .  . .  but 
add  this  also,  that  I  wish. 

6  He  means  in  the  Canon,  as  before  by  the  word  "  annexed." 
•  So  B.  and  Ven.  Edd.  "  where  they  sat  and  when  they  walked." 
1  Lat.   "  landed."  but  mar^x^n^av  bears  the  other  sense,  and  he 
means  evidently,  "  in  what  part  of  the  house."    B.  and  Ven.  have, 
"  I  would  not  have  been  weary  of  relating." 


546 


WORKS   OF   ST.    CHRYSOSTOM. 


and  become  more  zealous,  much  more  would 
this  be  the  case,  if  we  heard  their  words  and 
their  other  actions.  But  concerning  a  friend  a 
man  enquires,  where  he  lives,  what  he  is  doing, 
whither  he  is  going :  and  say,  should  we  not 
make  these  enquiries1  about  these  the  general 
instructors  of  the  world?  For  when  a  man 
leads  a  spiritual  life,  the  habit,  the  walk,  the 
words  and  the  actions  of  such  an  one,  in  short, 
all  that  relates  to  him,  profits  the  hearers,  and 
nothing  is  a  hindrance  or  impediment. 

But  it  is  useful  for  you  to  learn  that  this 
Epistle  was  sent  upon  necessary  matters.  Ob- 
serve therefore  how  many  things  are  rectified 
thereby.  We  have  this  one  thing  first,  that  in 
all  things  it  becomes  one  to  be  earnest.  For 
if  Paul  bestows  so  much  concern  upon  a  run- 
away, a  thief,  and  a  robber,  and  does  not  refuse 
nor  is  ashamed  to  send  him  back  with  such  com- 
mendations ;  much  more  does  it  become  us 
not  to  be  negligent  in  such  matters.  Secondly, 
that  we  ought  not  to  abandon  the  race  of  slaves, 
even  if  they  have  proceeded  to  extreme  wicked- 
ness. For  if  a  thief  and  a  runaway  become  so 
virtuous  that  Paul  was  willing  to  make  him  a 
companion,  and  says  in  this  Epistle,  "  that  in  thy 
stead  he  might  have  ministered  unto  me  "  (v. 
13),  much  more  ought  we  not  to  abandon  the 
free.  Thirdly,  that  we  ought  not  to  withdraw 
slaves  from  the  service  of  their  masters.  For 
if  Paul,  who  had  such  confidence  in  Philemon, 
was  unwilling  to  detain  Onesimus,  so  useful  and 
serviceable  to  minister  to  himself,  without  the 
consent  of  his  master,  much  less  ought  we  so  to 
act.  For  if  the  servant  is  so  excellent,  he  ought 
by  all  means  to  continue  in  that  service,  and  to 
acknowledge  the  authority  of  his  master,  that  he 
may  be  the  occasion  of  benefit  to  all  in  that 
house.  Why  dost  thou  take  the  candle  from  the 
candlestick  to  place  it  in  the  bushel  ? 

I  wish  it  were  possible  to  bring  into  the  cities 
those  (servants)  who  are  without.  "  What,"  say 
you,  "  if  he  also  should  become  corrupt."     And 

1  8.  and  Ven.  ifHarmms. 


why  should  he,  I  beseech  you  ?  Because  he  has 
come  into  the  city?  But  consider,  that  being 
without  he  will  be  much  more  corrupt.  For  he 
who  is  corrupt  being  within,  will  be  much  more 
so  being  without.  For  here  he  will  be  delivered 
from  necessary  care,  his  master  taking  that  care 
upon  himself;  but  there  the  concern  about  those 
things  will  draw  him  off  perhaps  even  from 
things  more  necessary,  and  more  spiritual.  On 
this  account  the  blessed  Paul,  when  giving  them 
the  best  counsel,  said,  "  Art  thou  called,  being  a 
servant  ?  care  not  for  it :  but  if  even  thou  mayest 
be  made  free,  use  it  rather"  (1  Cor.  vii.  21); 
that  is,  abide  in  slavery.2  But  what  is  more  im- 
portant than  all,  that  the  word  of  God  be  not 
blasphemed,  as  he  himself  says  in  one  of  his 
Epistles.  "  Let  as  many  servants  as  are  under 
the  yoke  count  their  own  masters  worthy  of  all 
honor,  that  the  name  of  God  and  His  doctrine 
be  not  blasphemed."  (1  Tim.  vi.  1.)  For  the 
Gentiles  also  will  say,  that  even  one  who  is  a 
slave  can  be  well  pleasing  to  God.  But  now 
many  are  reduced  to  the  necessity  of  blasphemy, 
and  of  saying  Christianity  has  been  introduced 
into  life  for  the  subversion  of  everything,  masters 
having  their  servants  taken  from  them,  and  it  is 
a  matter  of  violence. 

Let  me  also  say  one  other  thing.  He  teaches 
us  not  to  be  ashamed  of  our  domestics,  if  they 
are  virtuous.  For  if  Paul,  the  most  admirable 
of  men,  speaks  thus  much  in  favor  of  this  one, 
much  more  should  we  speak  favorably  of  ours. 
There  being  then  so  many  good  effects  —  and 
yet  we  have  not  mentioned  all  —  does  any  one 
think  it  superfluous  that  this  Epistle  was  inserted? 
And  would  not  this  be  extreme  folly?  Let  us 
then,  I  beseech  you,  apply  to  the  Epistle  written 
by  the  Apostle.  For  having  gained  already  so 
many  advantages  from  it,  we  shall  gain  more 
from  the  text.8 


anna,  i,  who  quotes  Eur.  Andr.  1080,  and  Xen.  Mem.  i.  c.  6,  f  12 


Tiff  «$!)«. 


[Note. — The  views  of  the  Fathers  on  Slavery  and  Emancipation  were  very  conservative,  as  slavery  was  inter- 
woven with  the  whole  structure  of  the  Roman  empire  and  could  not  be  suddenly  abolished  without  a  radical  social 
revolution.  But  the  spirit  of  Christianity  always  suggested  and  encouraged  individual  emancipation  and  the  ulti- 
mate abolition  of  the  institution  by  teaching  the  universal  love  of  God,  the  common  redemption  and  brotherhood 
of  men,  and  the  sacredness  of  personality.  Comp.  Bishop  Light  foot's  Commentary  on  Colossi  a  ns  and  Philemon* 
and  SchafFs  Church  History \  I.  793-798;  II.  347-354;  III.  1 15-122.  Mohler,  in  his  Vermischte  Schriflen>\\. 
896  sqq.v  has  collected  the  views  of  St.  Chrysostom  on  slavery,  and  says  that  since  the  time  of  the  Apostle  Paul  no 
one  has  done  more  valuable  service  to  slaves  than  St.  Chrysostom.  —  P.  S.] 


Homily  I.] 


HOMILIES  ON   PHILEMON. 


547 


HOMILY    I. 

Philemon  i.  1-3. 


•4 


Paul,  a  prisoner  of  Jesus  Christ,  and  Timothy  our 
brother,  unto  Philemon  our  dearly  beloved,  and  fel- 
low-laborer, And  to  our  beloved  Apphia,  and  Archip- 
pus  our  fellow-soldier,  and  to  the  Church  in  thy 
house:  Grace  to  you,  and  peace,  from  God  our 
Father  and  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ." 


These  things  are  said  to  a  master  in  behalf  of 
a  servant.  Immediately  at  the  outset,  he  has 
pulled  down  his  spirit,  and  not  suffered  him  to 
be  ashamed,  he  has  quenched  his  anger ;  calling 
himself  a  prisoner,  he  strikes  him  with  compunc- 
tion, and  makes  him  collect  himself,  and  makes 
it  appear  that  present  things  are  nothing.  For 
if  a  chain  for  Christ's  sake  is  not  a  shame  but  a 
boast,  much  more  is  slavery  not  to  be  considered 
a  reproach.  And  this  he  says,  not  exalting  him- 
self, but  for  a  good  purpose  doing  this,  showing 
thence  that  he  was  worthy  of  credit ;  and  this 
he  does  not  for  his  own  sake,  but  that  he  may 
more  readily  obtain  the  favor.  As  if  he  had 
said,  "  It  is  on  your  account  that  I  am  invested 
with  this  chain."  As  he  also  has  said  elsewhere, 
there  indeed  showing  his  concern,  but  here  his 
trustworthiness. 

Nothing  is  greater  than  this  boast,  to  be  called 
"  the  stigmatized l  of  Christ."  "  For  I  bear  in 
my  body  the  marks  of  the  Lord  Jesus."  (Gal. 
vi.  17.) 

"The  prisoner  of  the  Lord."  For  he  had 
been  bound  on  His  account.  Who  would  not 
be  struck  with  awe,  who  would  not  be  humbled 
when  he  hears  of  the  chains  of  Christ?  Who 
would  not  be  ready  to  give  up  even  his  own  life, 
much  less  one  domestic? 

"  And  Timothy  our  brother." 

He  joins  another  also  with  himself,  that  he, 
being  entreated  by  many,  may  the  more  readily 
yield  and  grant  the  favor. 

"  Unto  Philemon  our  dearly  beloved,  and  fel- 
low-laborer." 

If  "  beloved,"  then  his  confidence  is  not  bold- 
ness nor  forwardness,  but  a  proof  of  much  affec- 
tion. If  a  "  fellow-laborer,"  then  not  only  may 
he  be  instructed  in  such  a  matter,  but  he  ought 
to  acknowledge  it  as  a  favor.  For  he  is  gratify- 
ing himself,  he  is  building  up  the  same  work. 
So  that  apart  from  any  request,  he  says,  thou 
hast  another  necessity  for  granting  the  favor. 
For  if  he  is  profitable  to  the  Gospel,  and  thou 
art  anxious  to  promote  the  Gospel,  then  ought- 
est  thou  not  to  be  entreated,  but  to  entreat. 

Ver.  2.   "  And  to  our  beloved  Apphia." 


1  oTiyfiari'af .    Literally,  "  branded  slave. 


»» 


It  seems  to  me  that  she  was  his  partner  in 
life.  Observe  the  humility  of  Paul;  he  both 
joins  Timothy  with  him  in  his  request,  and  asks 
not  only  the  husband,  but  the  wife  also,  and 
some  one  else,  perhaps  a  friend. 

"And  Archippus,"  he  says,  "our  fellowTsol- 
dier." 

Not  wishing  to  effect  such  things  by  com- 
mand, and  not  taking  it  ill,  if  he  did  not  imme- 
diately comply  with  his  request;  but  he  begs 
them  to  do  what  a  stranger  might  have  done 2  to 
aid  his  request.  For  not  only  the  being  re- 
quested by  many,  but  the  petition  being  urged 
to  many,  contributes  to  its  being  granted.  And 
on  this  account  he  says,  "And  Archippus  our 
fellow-soldier."  If  thou  art  a  fellow-soldier, 
thou  oughtest  also  to  take  a  concern  in  these 
things.  But  this  is  the  Archippus,  about  whom 
he  says  in  his  Epistle  to  the  Colossians,  "  Say  to 
Archippus,  Take  heed  to  the  ministry  which 
thou  hast  received  in  the  Lord,  that  thou  fulfill 
it."  (Col.  iv.  17.)  It  seems  to  me  too,  that  he, 
whom  he  joins  with  him  in  this  request,  was  also 
one  of  the  Clergy.  And  he  calls  him  his  fellow- 
soldier,  that  he  may  by  all  means  cooperate  with 
him. 

"  And  to  the  Church  in  thy  house." 

Here  he  has  not  omitted  even  the  slaves. 
For  he  knew  that  often  even  the  words  of  slaves 
have  power  to  overthrow  their  master;  and 
more  especially  when  his  request  was  in  behalf 
of  a  slave.  And  perhaps  it  was  they  particularly 
who  exasperated  him.  He  does  not  suffer  them 
therefore  to  fall  into  envy,3  having  honored  them 
by  including  them  in  a  salutation  with  their 
masters.  And  neither  does  he  allow  the  master 
to  take  offense.  For  if  he  had  made  mention 
of  them  by  name,  perhaps  he  would  have  been 
angry.  And  if  he  had  not  mentioned  them  at 
all,  he4  might  have  been  displeased.  Observe 
therefore  how  prudently  he  has  found  a  way  by 
his  manner  of  mentioning  them,  both  to  honor 
them  by  his  mention  of  them,  and  not  to  wound 
him.  For  the  name  of  the  "  Church  "  does  not 
suffer  masters  to  be  angry,  even  though  they  are 
reckoned  together  with  their  servants.  For  the 
Church  knows  not  the  distinction  of  master  and 
servant.  By  good  actions  and  by  sins  she  de- 
fines the  one  and  the  other.     If  then  it  is  a 


*  He  may  mean  a  stranger  to  Onestmus. 

*  i.e.  of  Onesimus. 

4  Some  suggest  the  plural, "  they,"  but  there  is  no  MS.  authority 
for  it.  The  last  editor  defends  the  singular,  as  the  expression  used 
would  please  Philemon. 


54» 


WORKS   OF    ST.   CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  I. 


Church,  be  not  displeased  that  thy  slave  is 
saluted  with  thee.  "  For  in  Christ  Jesus  there 
is  neither  bond  nor  free."     (Gal.  iii.  28.) 

"  Grace  to  you,  and  peace." 

By  mentioning  "grace,"  he  brings  his  own 
sins  to  his  remembrance.  Consider,  he  says, 
how  great  things  God  has  pardoned  in  thee, 
how  by  grace  thou  art  saved.  Imitate  thy  Lord. 
And  he  prays  for  "  peace  "  to  him ;  and  natu- 
rally :  for  it  comes  then  when  we  imitate  Him, 
then  grace  abides.  Since  even  that  servant  who 
was  unmerciful  to  his  fellow-servants,  until  he 
demanded  the  hundred  pence,  had  the  grace 
of  his  master  abiding  on  him.  But  when  he 
made  that  demand,  it  was  taken  from  him,  and 
he  was  delivered  to  the  tormentors. 

Moral.  Considering  these  things,  then,  let 
us  also  be  merciful  and  forgiving  towards  those 
who  have  trespassed  against  us.  The  offenses 
against  us  here  are  a  hundred  pence,  but  those 
from  us  against  God  are  ten  thousand  talents. 
But  you  know  that  offenses  are  also  judged  by 
the  quality  of  the  persons  :  for  instance,  he  who 
has  insulted  a  private  person  has  done  wrong, 
but  not  so  much  as  he  who  has  insulted  a  mag- 
istrate, and  he  who  has  offended  a  greater  mag- 
istrate offends  in  a  higher  degree,  and  he  who 
offends  an  inferior  one  in  a  lower  degree ;  but 
he  who  insults  the  king  offends  much  more. 
The  injury  indeed  is  the  same,  but  it  becomes 
greater  by  the  excellence  of  the  person.  And 
if  he  who  insults  a  king  receives  intolerable 
punishment,  on  account  of  the  superiority1  of 
the  person ;  for  how  many  talents  will  he  be 
answerable  who  insults  God  ?  so  that  even  if  we 
should  commit  the  same  offenses  against  God, 
that  we  do  against  men,  even  so  it  is  not  an 
equal  thing:  but  as  great  as  is  the  difference 
between  God  and  men,  so  great  is  that  between 
the  offenses  against  Him  and  them. 

But  now  I  find  also  that  the  offenses  exceed, 
not  only  in  that  they  become  great  by  the  emi- 
nence of  the  person,  but  by  their  very  nature. 
And  it  is  a  horrible  saying  that  I  am  about  to 
utter,  and  truly  awful,  but  it  is  necessary  to  be 
said,  that  it  may  even  so  shake  our  minds  and 
strike  them  with  terror,  showing  that  we  fear 
men  much  more  than  God,  and  we  honor  men 
much  more  than  God.  For  consider,  he  that 
commits  adultery  knows  that  God  sees  him,  yet 
he  disregards  Him ;  but  if  a  man  see  him,  he 
restrains  his  lust.  Does  not  such  a  one  not  only 
honor  men  above  God,  not  only  insult  God,  but, 
which  is  even  much  more  dreadful,  whilst  he 
fears  them,  despise  Him  ?  For  if  he  sees  them, 
he  restrains  the  flame  of  lust,  but  rather  what 
flame  ?  it  is  not  a  flame,  but  a  willfulness.     For 


1  Edd.   a(tojri(rTittvf   literally,   "  worthiness  of  credit,'*   but   in 
later  Greek  "of  consideration."      Sav.   mar.    B.  and  Ven.   have 


if  indeed  it  was  not  lawful  to  have  intercourse 
with  a  woman,  the  matter  perhaps  would  be  a 
flame,  but  now2  it  is  insult  and  wantonness. 
For  if  he  should  see  men,  he  desists  from  his 
mad  passion,  but  for  the  longsuffering  of  God 
he  has  less  regard.  Again,  another  who  steals, 
is  conscious  that  he  is  committing  robber}',  and 
endeavors  to  deceive  men,  and  defends  himself 
against  those  who  accuse  him,  and  clothes  his 
apology  with  a  fair  show ;  but  though  he  cannot 
thus  prevail  with  God,  he  does  not  regard  Him, 
nor  stand  in  awe  of  Him,  nor  honor  Him.  And 
if  the  king  indeed  commands  us  to  abstain  from 
other  men's  goods,  or  even  to  give  away  our 
own,  all  readily  contribute,  but  when  God  com- 
mands not  to  rob,  nor  to  gather  other  men's 
goods,  we  do  not  forbear. 

Do  you  see  then  that  we  honor  men  more 
than  God  ?  It  is  a  sad  and  grievous  saying,  a 
heavy  charge.  But  show  that  it  is  grievous ;  flee 
from  the  fact !  But  if  you  fear  not  the  fact, 
how  can  I  believe  you  when  you  say,  We  fear 
your  words,  you  lay  a  burden  on  us  !  It  is  you 
that  by  the  deed  lay  a  burden  on  yourselves,  and 
not  our  words.  And  if  I  but  name  the  words 
of  which  you  do  the  deeds,  you  are  offended. 
And  is  not  this  absurd? 

May  the  thing  spoken  by  me  prove  false  !  I 
would  rather  myself  in  That  Day  bear  the  im- 
putation of  ill  language,  as  having  vainly  and 
causelessly  reproached  you,  than  see  you  accused 
of  such  things. 

But  not  only  do  you  honor  men  more  than 
God,  but  you  compel  others  to  do  so  likewise. 
Many  have  thus  compelled  their  domestics  and 
slaves.  Some  have  drawn  them  into  marriage 
against  their  will,  and  others  have  forced  them 
to  minister  to  disgraceful  services,  to  infamous 
love,  to  acts  of  rapine,  and  fraud,  and  violence : 
so  that  the  accusation  is  twofold,  and  neither 
can  they  obtain  pardon  upon  the  plea  of  neces- 
sity. For  if  you  yourself  do  wrong  things  un- 
willingly, and  on  account  of  the  command  of 
the  ruler,  not  even  so  is  it  by  any  means  a  suffi- 
cient excuse :  but  the  offense  becomes  heavier, 
when  you  compel  them  also  to  fall  into  the  same 
sins.  For  what  pardon  can  there  be  any  more 
for  such  an  one  ? 

These  things  I  have  said,  not  from  a  wish  to 
condemn  you,  but  to  show  'in  how  many  things 
we  are  debtors  to  God.  For  if  by  honoring  men 
even  equally  with  God,  we  insult  God,  how  much 
more,  when  we  honor  men  above  Him  ?  But  if 
those  offenses  that  are  committed  against  men 
are  shown  to  be  much  greater  against  God ;  how 
much  more  when  the  actual  offense  is  greater 
and  more  grievous  in  its  own  quality. 

Let  any  one  examine  himself,  and  he  will  see 

*  Sav.  mar.  B.  and  Ven.  "  but  now,  with  most  men,  what  is  lawfel 
is  despised,"  and, "  but  what  is  forbidden  made  much  of,  it  is  all/*  ftc 


Homily  I.] 


HOMILIES   ON    PHILEMON. 


549 


that  he  does  everything  on  account  of  men. 
Exceedingly  blessed  we  should  be,  if  we  did  as 
many  things  for  the  sake  of  God,  as  we  do  for 
the  sake  of  men,  and  of  the  opinion  of  men, 
and  for  the  dread  or  the  respect  of  men.  If 
then  we  have  so  many  things  to  answer  for,  we 
ought  with  all  alacrity  to  forgive  those  who  in- 
jure us,  who  defraud  us,  and  not  to  bear  malice. 
For  there  is  a  way  to  the  forgiveness  of  our  sins 
that  needs  no  labors,  nor  expense  of  wealth,  nor 
any  other  things,  but  merely  our  own  choice. 
We  have  no  need  to  set  out  upon  our  travels, 
nor  go  beyond  the  boundaries  of  our  country, 
nor  submit  to  dangers  and  toils,  but  only  to  will. 

What  excuse,  tell  me,  shall  we  have  in  things' 
that  appear  difficult,1  when  we  do  not  do  even  a 
light  thing,  attended  too  with  so  much  gain  and 
so  much  benefit,  and  no  trouble?  Canst  thou 
not  despise  wealth  ?  Canst  thou  not  spend  thy 
substance  on  the  needy?  Canst  thou  not  will 
anything  that  is  good  ?  Canst  thou  not  forgive 
him  that  has  injured  thee  ?  For  if  thou  hadst 
not  so  many  things  to  answer  for,  and  God  had 
only  commanded  thee  to  forgive,  oughtest  thou 
not  to  do  it  ?  But  now  having  so  many  things 
to  answer  for,  dost  thou  not  forgive?  and  that 
too,  knowing  that  thou  art  required  to  do  it  on 
account  of  things  which  thou  hast  from  Him? 
If  indeed  we  go  to  our  debtor,  he  knowing  it, 
receives  us  courteously,  and  shows  us  honor,  and 
pays  us  every  attention  in  a  liberal  way ;  and 
that  though  he  is  not  paying  off  his  debt,  but 
because  he  wishes  to  render  us  merciful  in  our 
demand  of  payment :  and  thou,  who  owest  so 
much  to  God,  and  art  commanded  to  forgive 
that  thou  mayest  receive  in  return,  dost  not  thou 
forgive?  And  wherefore  not,  I  beseech  you? 
Woe  is  me  !  How  much  of  goodness  do  we  re- 
ceive, and  what  wickedness  do  we  show  in 
return  !  What  sleepiness  !  what  indolence  ! 
How  easy  a  thing  is  virtue,  attended  too  with 
much  advantage ;  and  how  laborious  a  thing  is 
vice  !  But  we,  flying  from  that  which  is  so  light, 
pursue  that  which  is  heavier  than  lead. 

Here  there  is  no  need  of  bodily  strength,  nor 
of  wealth,  nor  possessions,  nor  of  power,  nor  of 
friendship,  nor  of  any  other  thing  ;  but  it  is  suf- 
ficient only  to  will,  and  all  is  accomplished. 
Hath  some  one  grieved  thee,  and  insulted  thee, 
and  mocked  thee?  But  consider,  how  often 
thou  hast  done  such  things  to  others,  and  even 
to  the  Lord  Himself;  and  forbear,  and  forgive 
him  it.     Consider  that  thou  sayest,  "  Forgive  us 

1  Raphelius  (ap.  Par.)  notes  that  he  means  "  what  presumption 
is  there  that  we  would  do  them  if  we  could?" 


our  debts,  as  we  also  forgive  our  debtors." 
(Matt.  vi.  13.)  Consider,  that  if  thou  dost  not 
forgive,  thou  wilt  not  be  able  to  say  this  with 
confidence  :  but  if  thou  forgivest,  thou  demand- 
est  the  matter  as  a  debt,  not  by  reason  of  the 
nature  of  the  thing,  but  on  account  of  the  lov- 
ingkindness  of  Him  that  hath  granted  it.  And 
wherein  is  it  equal,  that  one  who  forgives  his 
fellow-servants  should  receive  remission  of  the 
sins  committed  against  the  Lord?  but  never- 
theless we  do  receive  such  great  lovingkindness, 
because  He  is  rich  in  mercy  and  pity. 

And  that  I  may  show  that  even  without  these 
things,  and  without  the  remission,  thou  art  a 
gainer  by  forgiving,  consider  how  many  friends 
such  a  person  has,  how  the  praises  of  such  an 
one  are  everywhere  sounded  by  men  who  go 
about  saying,  "  This  is  a  good  man,  he  is  easily 
reconciled,  he  knows  not  to  bear  malice,  he  is 
no  sooner  stricken  than  he  is  healed."  When 
such  an  one  falls  into  any  misfortune,  who  will 
not  pity  him  ?  when  he  has  offended,  who  will 
not  pardon  him?  When  he  asks  a  favor  of 
others,  who  will  not  grant  it  to  him  ?  Who  will 
not  be  willing  to  be  the  friend  and  servant  of  so 
good  a  soul  ?  Yea,  I  entreat  you,  let  us  do  all 
things  for  Him,2  not  to  our  friends,  not  to  our 
relations  only,  but  even  to  our  domestics.  For 
He  says,  "  Forbearing  threatening,  knowing  that 
your  Master  also  is  in  heaven."     (Eph.  vi.  9.) 

If  we  forgive  our  neighbors  their  trespasses, 
ours  will  be  forgiven  to  us,  if  we  bestow  alms,  if 
we  be  humble.  For  this  also  taketh  away  sins. 
For  if  the  publican,  only  for  saying,  "  God  be 
merciful  to  me  a  sinner"  (Luke  xviii.  13),  went 
down  justified,  much  more  we  also,  if  we  be 
humble  and  contrite,  shall  be  able  to  obtain 
abundant  lovingkindness.  If  we  confess  our 
own  sins  and  condemn  ourselves,  we  shall  be 
cleansed  from  the  most  of  our  defilement.  For 
there  are  many  ways  that  purify.  Let  us  there- 
fore in  every  way  war  against  the  devil.  I  have 
said  nothing  difficult,  nothing  burdensome.  For- 
give him  that  has  injured  thee,  have  pity  on  the 
needy,  humble  thy  soul,  and  though  thou  be  a 
grievous  sinner,  thou  wilt  be  able  to  obtain  the 
kingdom,  by  these  means  purging  off  thy  sins 
themselves,  and  wiping  off  their  stain.  And 
God  grant  that  we  all,  having  purified  ourselves 
here  by  confession  from  all  the  filth  of  our  sins, 
may  there  obtain  the  blessings  promised  in  Christ 
Jesus  our  Lord,  &c. 

B  Or,  "  to  this  purpose,"  as  the  Latin.    But  it  seems  to  be  an  un- 
expected turn  upon  the  last  clause.    Compare  the  general  argument, 
of  Bp.  Butler's  Sermons  on  the  Love  of  God. 


55Q 


WORKS   OF   ST.   CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  II. 


HOMILY    II. 

Philemon  i.  4-6. 


u  I  thank  my  God,  making  mention  of  thee  always  in  my 
prayers,  Hearing  of  thy  love  and  faith,  which  thou 
hast  towards  the  Lord  Jesus,  and  toward  all  saints. 
That  the  communication  of  thy  faith  may  become 
effectual  by  the  acknowledging  [in  the  knowledge] 
of  every  good  thing  which  is  in  us,1  in  Christ  Jesus." 

He  does  not  immediately  at  the  commence- 
ment ask  the  favor,  but  having  first  admired  the 
man,  and  having  praised  him  for  his  good 
actions,  and  having  shown  no  small  proof  of  his 
love,  that  he  always  made  mention  of  him  in  his 
prayers,  and  having  said  that  many  are  refreshed 
by  him,  and  that  he  is  obedient  and  complying 
in  all  things  ;  then  he  puts  it  last  of  all,  by  this 
particularly  putting  him  to  the  blush.2  For  if 
others  obtain  the  things  which  they  ask,  much 
more  Paul.  If  coming  before  others,  he  was 
worthy  to  obtain,  much  more  when  he  comes 
after  others,  and  asks  a  thing  not  pertaining  to 
himself,  but  in  behalf  of  another.  Then,  that 
he  may  not  seem  to  have  written  on  this  ac- 
count only,  and  that  no  one  may  say,  "  If  it 
were  not  for  Onesimus  thou  wouldest  not  have 
written,"  see  how  he  assigns  other  causes  also 
of  his  Epistle.  In  the  first  place  manifesting  his 
love,  then  also  desiring  that  a  lodging  may  be 
prepared  for  him. 

"  Hearing,"  he  says,  "  of  thy  love." 

This  is  wonderful,  and  much  greater  than  if 
being  present  he  had  seen  it  when  he8  was 
present.  For  it  is  plain  that  from  its  being  ex- 
cessive it  had  become  manifest,  and  had  reached 
even  to  Paul.  And  yet  the  distance  between 
Rome  and  Phrygia  was  not  small.  For  he 
seems  to  have  been  there  from  the  mention  of 
Archippus.  For  the  Colossians  were  of  Phrygia, 
writing  to  whom  he  said,  "  When  this  Epistle  is 
read  among  you,  cause  that  it  be  read  also  in 
the  Church  of  the  Laodiceans,  and  that  ye  like- 
wise read  the  Epistle  from  Laodicea."  (Col.  iv. 
16.)     And  this  is  a  city  of  Phrygia. 

I  pray,  he  says,  "  that  the  communication  of 
thy  faith  may  become  effectual  in  the  knowl- 
edge of  every  good  thing  which  is  in  Christ 
Jesus."  Dost  thou  see  him  first  giving,  before 
he  receives,  and  before  he  asks  a  favor  himself 
bestowing  a  much  greater  one  of  his  own  ?  "  That 
the  communication  of  thy  faith,"  he  says,  "  may 
become  effectual  by  the  acknowledging  of  every 
good  thing  which  is  in  you  in  Christ  Jesus  "  ; 
that  is,  that  thou  mayest  attain  all  virtue,  that 

1  E.  V.  "  in  you."  [The  R.  V.  reads  "  in  you,"  iv  v/xlv,  and 
puts  "  us,"  tjM***  in  the  margin.  —  P.  S.J 

*  Svtrunritv.  3  Philemon,  as  it  is  wap6vros. 


nothing  may  be  deficient.  For  so  faith  becomes 
effectual,  when  it  is  accompanied  with  works. 
For  "without  works  faith  is  dead."  (Jas.  ii. 
26.)  And  he  has  not  said,  "Thy  faith,"  but 
"the  communication  of  thy  faith,"  connecting 
it  with  himself,  and  showing  that  it  is  one  body, 
and  by  this  particularly  making  him  ashamed  to 
refuse.  If  thou  art  a  partaker,  he  says,  with 
respect  to  the  faith,  thou  oughtest  to  communi- 
cate also  with  respect  to  other  things. 

Ver.  7.  "  For  we  have  [I  had]  great  joy  and  con- 
solation in  thy  love,  because  the  bowels  [hearts] 
of  the  Saints  are  refreshed  by  thee,  brother." 

Nothing  so  shames  us  into  giving,  as  to  bring 
forward  the  kindnesses  bestowed  on  others,  and 
particularly  when  a  man  is  more  entitled  to 
respect  than  they.  And  he  has  not  said,  "If 
you  do  it  to  others,  much  more  to  me  " ;  but 
he  has  insinuated  the  same  thing,  though  he 
has  contrived  to  do  it  in  another  and  a  more 
gracious  manner. 

"  I  had  joy,"  that  is,  thou  hast  given  me 
confidence  from  the  things  which  thou  hast  done 
to  others.  "  And  consolation,"  that  is,  we  are 
not  only  gratified,  but  we  are  also  comforted. 
For  they  are  members  of  us.  If  then  there 
ought  to  be  such  an  agreement,  that  in  the 
refreshing  of  any  others  who  are  in  affliction, 
though  we  obtain  nothing,  we  should  be  de- 
lighted on  their  account,  as  if  it  were  one  body 
that  was  benefited ;  much  more  if  you  shall  re- 
fresh us  also.  And  he  has  not  said,  "  Because 
thou  yieldest,  and  compliest,"  but  even  more 
vehemently  and  emphatically,  "because  the 
bowels  of  the  Saints,"  as  if  it  were  for  a  darling 
child  fondly  loved  by  its  parents,  so  that  this 
love  and  affection  shows  that  he  also  is  exceed- 
ingly beloved  by  them. 

Ver.  8.  "Wherefore,  though  I  might  be  much 
bold  in  Christ  to  enjoin  thee  that  which  is  con- 
venient [befitting]." 

Observe  how  cautious  he  is,  lest  any  of  the 
things  which  were  spoken  even  from  exceeding 
love  should  so  strike  the  hearer,  as  that  he  should 
be  hurt.  For  this  reason  before  he  says,  "to 
enjoin  thee,"  since  it  was  offensive,  although,  as 
spoken  out  of  love,  it  was  more  proper  to  soothe 
him,  yet  nevertheless  from  an  excess  of  delicacy, 
he  as  it  were  corrects  it  by  saying,  "Having 
confidence,"  by  which  he  implies  that  Philemon 
was  a  great  man,4  that   is  "Thou  hast   given 


4  i.e.  a  man  of  high  Christian  character,  who  would  admit  such 
claims  as  his. 


II.] 


HOMILIES   ON   PHILEMON.. 


55* 


*nce  to  us."  And  not  only  that,  but 
;  the  expression  "  in  Christ,"  by  which  he 
that  it  was  not  that  he  was  more  illustrious 
world,  not  that  he  was  more  powerful,  but 
on  account  of  his  faith  in  Christ,  —  then 
0  adds,  "  to  enjoin  thee,"  and  not  that 
mt  "  that  which  is  convenient,"  that  is,  a 
able  action.  And  see  out  of  how  many 
he  brings  proof  for  this.  Thou  doest 
to  others,  he  says,  and  to  me,  and  for 
s  sake,  and  that  the  thing  is  reasonable, 
at  love  giveth,  wherefore  also  he  adds, 
.  9.  "  Yet  for  love's  sake,  I  rather  beseech 

f  he  had  said,  I  know  indeed  that  I  can 
it  by  commanding  with  much  authority, 
things  which  have  already  taken  place, 
ecause  I  am  very  solicitous  about  this 
,  "  I  beseech  thee."  He  shows  both  these 
at  once ;  that  he  has  confidence  in  him, 
commands  him ;  *  and  that  he  is  exceed- 
:oncerned  about  the  matter,  wherefore  he 
hes  him. 

ing  such  an  one,"  he  says,  "as  Paul  the 
Strange  !  how  many  things  are  here  to 

him  into  compliance  !  Paul,  from  the 
r  of  his  person,  from  his  age,  because  he 
d,  and  from  what  was  more  just  than  all, 
;e  he  was  also  "  a  prisoner  of  Jesus  Christ." 
who  would  not  receive  with  open  arms  a 
tant  who  had  been  crowned  ?  Who  see- 
n  bound  for  Christ's  sake,  would  not  have 
d  him  ten  thousand  favors  ?  By  so  many 
erations   having    previously   soothed    his 

he  has  not  immediately  introduced  the 

but  defers  making  so  great  a  request. 
3U  know  what  are  the  minds  of  masters 
Is  slaves  that  have  run  away ;  and  particu- 
/hen  they  have  done  this  with  robbery, 
f  they  have  good  masters,  how  their  anger 
eased.  This  anger  then  having  taken  all 
>ains  to  soothe,  and  having  first  persuaded 
adily  to  serve  him  in  anything  whatever, 
tving  prepared  his  soul  to  all  obedience, 
le  introduces  his  request,  and  says,  "I 
h  thee,"  and  with  the  addition  of  praises, 
y  son  whom  I  have  begotten  in  my  bonds." 
in  the  chains  are  mentioned  to  shame  him 
^mpliance,  and  then  the  name.  For  he 
)t  only  extinguished  his  anger,  but   has 

him  to  be  delighted.  For  I  would  not 
ailed  him  my  son,  he  says,  if  he  were  not 
illy  profitable.     What  I  called  Timothy, 

call  him  also.  And  repeatedly  showing 
iction,  he  urges  him  by  the  very  period  of 
w  birth,  "  I  have  begotten  him  in  my 
"  he  says,  so  that  on  this  account  also  he 
orthy  to  obtain  much  honor,  because  he 


means  that  his  words  would  be  felt  as  a  command,  and  were 
t  less,  but  more. 


was  begotten  in  his  very  conflicts,  in  his  trials  in 
the  cause  of  Christ. 

"  Onesimus," 

Ver.  n.  "Which  in  time  past  was  to  thee 
unprofitable." 

See  how  great  is  his  prudence,  how  he  con- 
fesses the  man's  faults,  and  thereby  extinguishes 
his  anger.  I  know,  he  says,  that  he  was  unprof- 
itable. 

"But  now"  he  will  be  "profitable  to  thee  and 
to  me." 

He  has  not  said  he  will  be  useful  to  thee,  lest 
he  should  contradict  it,  but  he  has  introduced 
his  own  person,  that  his  hopes  may  seem  worthy 
of  credit,  "But  now,"  he  says,  "profitable  to 
thee  and  to  me."  For  if  he  was  profitable  to 
Paul,  who  required  so  great  strictness,  much 
more  would  he  be  so  to  his  master. 

Ver.  12.  "Whom  I  have  sent  again  to  thee." 

By  this  also  he  has  quenched  his  anger,  by  de- 
livering him  up.  For  masters  are  then  most  en- 
raged, when  they  are  entreated  for  the  absent,  so 
that  by  this  very  act  he  mollified  him  the  more. 

Ver.  12.  "Thou  therefore  receive  him,  that  is 
mine  own  bowels." 

And  again  he  has  not  given  the  bare  name, 
but  uses  with  it  a  word  that  might  move  him, 
which  is  more  affectionate  than  son.  He  has 
said,  "  son,"  he  has  said,  "  I  have  begotten  " 
him,8  so  that  it  was  probable3  he  would  love 
him  much,  because  he  begot  him  in  his  trials. 
For  it  is  manifest  that  we  are  most  inflamed  with 
affection  for  those  children,  who  have  been  born 
to  us  in  dangers  which  we  have  escaped,  as 
when  the  Scripture  saith,  "  Woe,  Barochabei ! "  4 
and  again  when  Rachel  names  Benjamin,  "  the 
son  of  my  sorrow."     (Gen.  xxxv.  18.) 

"  Thou  therefore,"  he  says,  "  receive  him, 
that  is  mine  own  bowels."  He  shows  the  great- 
ness of  his  affection.  He  has  not  said,  Take 
him  back,5  he  has  not  said,  Be  not  angry,6  but 
"  receive  him  " ;  that  is,  he  is  worthy  not  only 
of  pardon,  but  of  honor.  Why  ?  Because  he  is 
become  the  son  of  Paul. 

Ver.  13.  "Whom  I  would  have  retained  with 
me,  that  in  thy  stead  he  might  have  ministered 
unto  me  in  the  bonds  of  the  Gospel." 

Dost  thou  see  after  how  much  previous  prepa- 
ration, he  has  at  length  brought  him  honorably 
before  his  master,  and  observe  with  how  much 
wisdom  he  has  done  this.  See  for  how  much 
he  makes  him  answerable,  and  how  much  he 
honors  the  other.  Thou  hast  found,  he  says, 
a   way  by  which   thou    mayest    through    him 

2  Old  Lat.  adds,  "  in  my  bonds,"  which  the  sense  requires. 
8  B.  and  Ven.  "  so  as  to  show  that  he  loved  him  especially." 
4  The  last  Paris  edition  has  a  note  from  Raphelius  and  Hemster- 
husius  which  curiously  illustrates  the  variation  of  names.    This 
ovaij3apoya/3i)A  is  in  Sept.  x  Sam.  iv.  at,  oi><u8apya0tt>0,  Vat.  Ovat- 
Xa/3£>fl  Alex.,  Or.  Hex.  oval  t©x«W»  E.  V.  "  Ichabod." 

•  air66i£a.i. 

•  vpo<rAa0ov. 


552 


WORKS   OF   ST.   CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  II. 


repay  thy  service  to  me.  Here  he  shows  that  he 
has  considered  his  advantage  more  than  that  of 
his  slave,  and  that  he  respects  him  exceedingly. 

Vei.  14.  "  But  without  thy  mind/1  he  says, 
"would  I  do  nothing;  that  thy  benefit  should 
not  be,  as  it  were,  of  necessity,  but  willingly." 

This  particularly  flatters  the  person  asked, 
when  the  thing  being  profitable  in  itself,  it  is 
brought  out  with  his  concurrence.  For  two 
good  effects  are  produced  thence,  the  one  person 
gains,  and  the  other  is  rendered  more  secure. 
And  he  has  not  said,  That  it  should  not  be  of 
necessity,  but  "  as  it  were  of  necessity."  For  I 
knew,  he  says,  that  not  having  learnt1  it,  but 
coming  to  know  it  at  once,  thou  wouldest  not 
have  been  angry,  but  nevertheless  out  of  an 
excess  of  consideration,  that  it  should  "  not  be 
as  it  were  of  necessity." 

Ver.  15,  16.  "For  perhaps  he  was  therefore 
parted  from  thee  for  a  season  that  thou  shouldest 
have  him  for  ever ;  no  longer  as  a  bond-servant." 

He  has  well  said,  "  perhaps,"  that  the  master 
may  yield.  For  since  the  flight  arose  from  per- 
verseness,  and  a  corrupt  mind,  and  not  from 
such  intention,  he  has  said,  "perhaps."  And 
he  has  not  said,  therefore  he  fled,  but,  therefore 
he  was  "  separated," 2  by  a  more  fair  sounding 
expression  softening  him  the  more.  And  he 
has  not  said,  He  separated  himself,  but,  "  he  was 
separated."  For  it  was  not  his  own  arrange- 
ment that  he  should  depart  either  for  this  pur- 
pose or  for  that.  Which  also  Joseph  says,  in 
making  excuse  for  his  brethren, "  For  God  did 
send  me  hither  "  (Gen.  xlv.  5),  that  is,  He  made 
use  of  their  wickedness  for  a  good  end.  "  There- 
fore," he  says, "  he  was  parted  for  a  season."8  Thus 
he  contracts  the  time,  acknowledges  the  offense, 
and  turns  it  all  to  a  providence.4  "  That  thou 
shouldest  receive  him,"  he  says,  "  for  ever,"  not 
for  the  present  season  only,  but  even  for  the 
future,  that  thou  mightest  always  have  him,  no 
longer  a  slave,  but  more  honorable  than  a 
slave.  For  thou  wilt  have  a  slave  abiding  with 
thee,  more  well-disposed  than  a  brother,  so  that 
thou  hast  gained  both  in  time,  and  in  the  quality 
of  thy  slave.  For  hereafter  he  will  not  run 
away.  "That  thou  shouldest  receive  him,"  he 
says,  "  for  ever,"  that  is,  have  him  again. 

"  No  longer  as  a  bond- servant,  but  more  than 
a  bond-servant,  a  brother  beloved,  especially  to 


me. 


>» 


Thou  hast  lost  a  slave  for  a  short  time,  but 
thou  wilt  find  a  brother  for  ever,  not  only  thy 
brother,  but  mine  also.  Here  also  there  is 
much  virtue.  But  if  he  is  my  brother,  thou  also 
wilt  not  be  ashamed  of  him.  By  calling  him 
his  son,  he  hath  shown  his  natural  affection ; 

1  i.e.  by  previous  explanation,  fxaOutv. 

*  Gr.  cx»pi<r0Tj.     [R.  V.  "  be  was  parted  from  thee."—  P.S.] 

•   uaav.  lit.  "  an  hrttir  "  4   ntirAVAu/«v. 


•>pav,  lit.  "  an  hour.' 


oucovofitav. 


and  by  calling  him  his  brother,  his  great  good 
will  for  him,  and  his  equality  in  honor. 

Moral.  These  things  are  not  written  without 
an  object,  but  that  we  masters  may  not  despair 
of  our  servants,  nor  press  too  hard  on  them,  but 
may  learn  to  pardon  the  offenses  of  such  ser- 
vants, that  we  may  not  be  always  severe,  that 
we  may  not  from  their  servitude  be  ashamed  to 
make  them  partakers  with  us  in  all  things  when 
they  are  good.  For  if  Paul  was  not  ashamed  to 
call  one  "  his  son,  his  own  bowels,  his  brother, 
his  beloved,"  surely  we  ought  not  to  be  ashamed. 
And  why  do  I  say  Paul  ?  The  Master  of  Paul 
is  not  ashamed  to  call  our  servants  His  own 
brethren;  and  are  we  ashamed?  See  how  He 
honors  us  ;  He  calls  our  servants  His  own  breth- 
ren, friends,  and  fellow-heirs.  See  to  what  He 
has  descended  !  What  therefore  having  done, 
shall  we  have  accomplished  our  whole  duty? 
We  shall  never  in  any  wise  do  it ;  but  to  what- 
ever degree  of  humility  we  have  come,  the 
greater  part  of  it  is  still  left  behind.  For  con- 
sider, whatever  thou  doest,  thou  doest  to  a 
fellow-servant,  but  thy  Master  hath  done  it  to 
thy  servants.  Hear  and  shudder !  Never  be 
elated  at  thy  humility  ! 

Perhaps  you  laugh  at  the  expression,  as  if 
humility  could  puff  up.  But  be  not  surprised  at 
it,  it  puffs  up,  when  it  is  not  genuine.  How,  and 
in  what  manner  ?  When  it  is  practiced  to  gain 
the  favor  of  men,  and  not  of  God,  that  we  may 
be  praised,  and  be  high-minded.  For  this  also 
is  diabolical.  For  as  many  are  vainglorious  on 
account  of  their  not  being  vainglorious,5  so  arc 
they  elated  on  account  of  their  humbling  them- 
selves, by  reason  of  their  being  high-minded. 
For  instance,  a  brother  has  come,  or  even  a 
servant  thou  hast  received  him,  thou  hast  washed 
his  feet;  immediately  thou  thinkest  highly  of 
thyself.  I  have  done,  thou  sayest,  what  no  other 
has  done.  I  have  achieved  humility.  How 
then  may  any  one  continue  in  humility?  If  he 
remembers  the  command  of  Christ,  which  says, 
"  When  ye  shall  have  done  all  things,  say,  We 
are  unprofitable  servants."  (Luke  xvii.  10.) 
And  again  the  Teacher  of  the  world,  saying. 
"  I  count  not  myself  to  have  apprehended." 
(Phil.  iii.  13.)  He  who  has  persuaded  himself 
tnat  he  has  done  no  great  thing,  however  many 
things  he  may  have  done,  he  alone  can  be 
humble-minded,  he  who  thinks  that  he  has  not 
reached  perfection. 

Many  are  elated  on  account  of  their  humility ; 
but  let  not  us  be  so  affected.  Hast  thou  done 
any  act  of  humility?  be  not  proud  of  it,  other- 
wise all  the  merit  of  it  is  lost.  Such  was  the 
Pharisee,  he  was  puffed  up  because  he  gave  his 
tythes  to  the  poor,  and  he  lost  all  the  merit  of 


"  Proud  of  his  periods  leveled  against  pride."  —  Anon. 


Homily  II.] 


HOMILIES   ON   PHILEMON. 


553 


it.     (Luke  xviii.  12.)     But  not  so  the  publican. 
Hear  Paul  again  saying,  "I  know  nothing  by 
myself,  yet  am  I  not  hereby  justified."     (1  Cor. 
iv.  4.)     Seest  thou  that  he  does  not  exalt  him- 
self, but  by  every  means  abases  and  humbles 
himself,  and  that  too  when  he  had  arrived  at  the 
very  summit.     And  the  Three  Children  were  in 
the  fire,  and  in  the  midst  of  the  furnace,  and 
what  said  they?    "We  have  sinned  and  com- 
mitted iniquity  with  our  fathers."     (Song,  v.  6, 
in  Sept. ;  Dan.  iii.  29,  30  ;  v.  16.)     This  it  is  to 
have  a  contrite  heart ;  on  this  account  they  could 
say,  "Nevertheless  in  a  contrite  heart  and  a 
humble  spirit  let  us  be  accepted."     Thus  even 
after  they  had  fallen  into  the  furnace  they  were 
exceedingly  humbled,  even  more  so  than  they 
were  before.     For  when  they  saw  the  miracle 
that  was  wrought,  thinking  themselves  unworthy 
of  that  deliverance,  they  were  brought  lower  in 
humility.     For  when  we  are  persuaded  that  we 
have  received  great  benefits  beyond  our  desert, 
then  we  are  particularly  grieved.     And  yet  what 
benefit  had  they  received  beyond  their  desert? 
They  had  given  themselves  up  to  the  furnace ; 
they  had  been  taken  captive  for  the  sins  of  others ; 
for  they  were  still  young ;  and  they  murmured  not, 
nor  were  indignant,  nor  did  they  say,  What  good 
is  it  to  us  that  we  serve  God,  or  what  advantage 
have    we   in   worshiping    Him?    This    man   is 
impious,   and   is   become   our   lord.      We   are 
punished  with  the  idolatrous  by  an  idolatrous 
king.     We  have  been  led  into  captivity.     We 
are  deprived  of  our  country,  our  freedom,  all 
our   paternal  goods,  we  are  become  prisoners 
and  slaves,  we  are  enslaved  to  a  barbarous  king. 
None  of  these  things  did  they  say.     But  what  ? 
"  We    have   sinned   and    committed    iniquity." 
And  not  for  themselves  but  for  others  they  offer 
prayers.     Because,  say  they,  "  Thou  hast  deliv- 
ered us  to  a  hateful  and  a  wicked  king."     Again, 
Daniel,  being  a  second  time  cast  into  the  pit, 
said,  "  For  God  hath  remembered  me."   Where- 
fore should  He  not  remember *  thee,  O  Daniel, 
when  thou  didst  glorify  Him  before  the  king,  say- 
ing, "Not  for  any  wisdom  that  I  have"?    (Dan. 
ii.  30.)     But  when  thou  wast  cast  into  the  den 
of  lions,  because  thou  didst  not  obey  that  most 
wicked  decree,  wherefore  should  He  not  remem- 
ber thee?     For  this  very  reason  surely  should* 
He.2    Wast  thou  not  cast  into  it  on  His  account? 
"Yea   truly,"  he  says,  "but  I  am  a  debtor  for 
many  things."     And  if  he  said  such  things  after 
having  displayed  so  great  virtue,  what  should 
we  say  after  this  ?     But  hear  what  David  says, 
"  If  He  thus  say,  I  have  no  delight  in  thee,  be- 
hold   here  am  I,  let  Him  do  to  me  as  seemeth 
good  unto  Him."     (2  Sam.  xv.  26.)     And  yet 

«  B.  *'  didst  thou  not  remember,"  and  presently,  "  did  I  not  re- 
member." The  construction  in  either  case  is  so  elliptical  as  to  be 
difficult. 

*  Bel  and  Dragon,  verse  38  [o  M  xvptoc  o  tfcfe  V"r*d>>  tow 
AavojA.  —  P.  S.] 


he  had  an  infinite  number  of  good  things  to 
speak  of.  And  Eli  also  says,  "  It  is  the  Ix>rd  : 
let  Him  do  what  seemeth  Him  good."  (i  Sam. 
iii.  18.) 

This  is  the  part  of  well-disposed  servants,  not 
only  in  His  mercies,  but  in  His  corrections,  and 
in  punishments  wholly  to  submit  to  Him.  For 
how  is  it  not  absurd,3  if  we  bear  with  masters 
beating  their  servants,  knowing  that  they  will 
spare  them,  because  they  are  their  own ; 4  and 
yet  suppose  that  God  in  punishing  will  not 
spare?  This  also  Paul  has  intimated,  saying, 
"  Whether  we  live  or  die,  we  are  the  Lord's." 
(Rom.  xiv.  8.)  A  man,  we  say,  wishes  not  his 
property  to  be  diminished,  he  knows  how  he 
punishes,  he  is  punishing  his  own  servants.  But 
surely  no  one  of  us  spares  more  than  He  Who 
brought  us  into  being  out  of  nothing,  Who  mak- 
eth  the  sun  to  rise,  Who  causeth  rain;  Who 
breathed  our  life  into  us,  Who  gave  His  own 
Son  for  us. 

But  as  I  said  before,  and  on  which  account  I 
have  said  all  that  I  have  said,  let  us  be  humble- 
minded  as  we  ought,  let  us  be  moderate  as  we 
ought.  Let  it  not  be  to  us  an  occasion  of  being 
puffed  up.  Art  thou  humble,  and  humbler  than 
all  men  ?  Be  not  high-minded  on  that  account, 
neither  reproach  others,  lest  thou  lose  thy  boast. 
For  this  very  cause  thou  art  humble,  that  thou 
mayest  be  delivered  from  the  madness  of  pride ; 
if  therefore  through  thy  humility  thou  fallest 
into  that  madness,  it  were  better  for  thee  not  to 
be  humble.  For  hear  Paul  saying,  "  Sin  work- 
eth  death  in  me  by  that  which  is  good,  that  sin 
by  the  commandment  might  become  exceeding 
sinful."  (Rom.  vii.  13.)  When  it  enters  into 
thy  thought  to  admire  thyself  because  thou  art 
humble,  consider  thy  Master,  to  what  He  de- 
scended, and  thou  wilt  no  longer  admire  thy- 
self, nor  praise  thyself,  but  wilt  deride  thyself  as 
having  done  nothing.  Consider  thyself  alto- 
gether to  be  a  debtor.  Whatever  thou  hast 
done,  remember  that  parable,  "  Which  of  you 
having  a  servant  .  .  .  will  say  unto  him,  when  he 
is  come  in,  Sit  down  to  meat  ?  .  .  .  I  say  unto 
you,  Nay  .  .  .  but  stay  and  serve  me."  (From 
Luke  xvii.  7,  8.)  Do  we  return  thanks  to  our 
servants,  for  waiting  upon  us?  By  no  means. 
Yet  God  is  thankful  to  us,  who  serve  not  Him, 
but  do  that  which  is  expedient  for  ourselves. 

But  let  not  us  be  so  affected,  as  if  He  owed 
us  thanks,  that  He  may  owe  us  the  more,  but  as 
if  we  were  discharging  a  debt.  For  the  matter 
truly  is  a  debt,  and  all  that  we  do  is  of  debt. 
For  if  when  we  purchase  slaves  with  our  money, 
we  wish  them  to  live  altogether  for  us,  and  what- 
ever  they  have  to   have  it  for  ourselves,  how 

8  B.  and  Ven.  add,  "  for  us  to  be  well  disposed  while  we  •» 
favored,  but  discontented  when  we  are  chastised;  tell  me  nam." 
ouch  seems  the  principle  in  Ex.  xxi.  as. 


554 


WORKS   OF   ST.    CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  III. 


much  more  must  it  be  so  with  Him,  who  brought 
us  out  of  nothing  into  being,  who  after  this 
bought  us  with  His  precious  Blood,  who  paid 
down  such  a  price  for  us  as  no  one  would  en- 
dure to  pay  for  his  own  son,  who  shed  His  own 
Blood  for  us  ?  If  therefore  we  had  ten  thousand 
souls,  and  should  lay  them  all  down  for  Him, 
should  we  make  Him  an  equal  return  ?  By  no 
means.  And  why  ?  Because  He  did  this,  owing 
us  nothing,  but  the  whole  was  a  matter  of  grace. 
But  we  henceforth  are  debtors  :  and  being  God 
Himself,  He  became  a  servant,  and  not  being 
subject  to  death,  subjected  Himself  to  death  in 
the  flesh.  We,  if  we  do  not  lay  down  our  lives 
for  Him,  by  the  law  of  nature  must  certainly 
lay  them  down,  and  a  little  later  shall  be  sepa- 
rated from  it,1  however  unwillingly.  So  also  in 
the  case  of  riches,  if  we  do  not  bestow  them  for 
His  sake,  we  shall  render  them  up  from  neces- 
sity at  our  end.  So  it  is  also  with  humility. 
Although  we  are  not  humble  for  His  sake,  we 
shall  be  made  humble  by  tribulations,  by  calami- 
ties, by  over-ruling  powers.  Seest  thou  there- 
fore how  great  is  the  grace  !  He  hath  not  said, 
"What  great  things  do  the  Martyrs  do? 
Although  they  die  not  for  Me,  they  certainly 
will  die."  But  He  owns  Himself  much  indebted 
to  them,  because  they  voluntarily  resign  that 
which  in  the  course  of  nature  they  were  about 
to  resign  shortly  against  their  will.  He  hath 
not  said,  "What  great  thing  do  they,  who  give 
away  their  riches  ?    Even  against  their  will  they 


will  have  to  surrender  them."  But  He  owns 
Himself  much  indebted  to  them  too,  and  is  not 
ashamed  to  confess  before  all  that  He,  the  Mas- 
ter, is  nourished  by  His  slaves. 

For  this  also  is  the  glory  of  a  Master,  to  have 
grateful  slaves.  And  this  is  the  glory  of  a  Mas- 
ter, that  He  should  thus  love  His  slaves.  And 
this  is  the  glory  of  a  Master,  to  claim  for  His 
own  what  is  theirs.  And  this  is  the  glory  of  a 
Master,  not  to  be  ashamed  to  confess  them 
before  all.  Let  us  therefore  be  stricken  with 
awe  at  this  so  great  love  of  Christ.  Let  us  be 
inflamed  with  this  love-potion.  Though  a  man 
be  low  and  mean,  yet  if  we  hear  that  he  loves 
us,  we  are  above  all  things  warmed  with  love 
towards  him,  and  honor  him  exceedingly.  And 
do  we  then  love  ?  and  when  our  Master  loveth 
us  so  much,  we  are  not  excited  ?  Let  us  not,  I 
beseech  you,  let  us  not  be  so  indifferent  with 
regard  to  the  salvation  of  our  souls,  but  let  us 
love  Him  according  to  our  power,  and  let  us 
spend  all  upon  His  love,  our  life,  our  riches,  our 
glory,  everything,  with  delight,  with  joy,  with 
alacrity,  not  as  rendering  anything  to  Him,  but 
to  ourselves.  For  such  is  the  law  of  those  who 
love.  They  think  that  they  are  receiving  favors, 
when  they  are  suffering  wrong  for  the  sake  of 
their  beloved.  Therefore  let  us  be  so  affected 
towards  our  Lord,  that  we  8  also  may  partake  of 
the  good  things  to  come  in  Christ  Jesus  our 
Lord. 


HOMILY   III. 

Philemon  i.  17-19. 


"  If  thou  count  me  therefore  a  partner,  receive  him  as 
myself.  If  he  hath  wronged  thee  at  all,  or  oweth 
thee  aught,  put  that  to  mine  account;  I  Paul  write 
it  with  mine  own  hand,  I  will  repay  it :  that  I  say 
not  to  thee  how  thou  owest  unto  me  even  thine  own 
self  besides." 

No  procedure  is  so  apt  to  gain  a  hearing,2  as 
not  to  ask  for  everything  at  once.  For  see 
after  how  many  praises,  after  how  much  prepara- 
tion he  hath  introduced  this  great  matter.  After 
having  said  that  he  is  "  my  son,"  that  he  is  a 
partaker  of  the  Gospel,  that  he  is  "  my  bowels," 
that  thou  receivest  him  back  "as  a  brother," 
and  "  hold  him  as  a  brother,"  then  he  has  added 
"as  myself."     And  Paul  was  not  ashamed  to  do 

1  The  sense  naturally  leads  to  this  transition  to  the  singular, 
which  is  not  uncommon  in  St.  Chrysostom. 
*  vapaivtiv. 


this.  For  he  who  was  not  ashamed  to  be  called 
the  servant  of  the  faithful,  but  confesses  that  he 
was  such,  much  more  would  he  not  refuse  this. 
But  what  he  says  is  to  this  effect  If  thou  art 
of  the  same  mind  with  me,  if  thou  runnest  upon 
the  same  terms,4  if  thou  considerest  me  a  friend, 
receive  him  as  myself. 

"  If  he  hath  wronged  thee  at  all."  See  where 
and  when  he  has  introduced  the  mention  of  the 
injury;  last,  after  having  said  so  many  things 
in  his  behalf.  For  since  the  loss  of  money  is 
particularly  apt  to  annoy  men,  that  he  might 
not  accuse  him  of  this,  (for  it  was  most  likely 
that  it  was  spent,)  then  he  brings  in  this,  and 
says,  "  If  he  hath  wronged  thee."  He  does  not 
say,  If  he  has  stolen  anything ;  but  what  ?  "  If 


*  B.  and  Ven.  add,  "  May  both  obtain  His  help  here,  and."  " 

*  iwl  Tot?  avrott,  perhaps  "  for  the  same  prize.*' 


»» 


Homily  III.] 


HOMILIES   ON   PHILEMON. 


555 


he  hath  wronged  thee."  At  the  same  time  he 
both  confessed  the  offense,  and  not  as  if  it  were 
the  offense  of  a  servant,  but  of  a  friend  against  a 
friend,  making  use  of  the  expression  of "  wrong" 
rather  than  of  theft. 

"  Put  that  to  mine  account,"  he  says,  that  is, 
reckon  the  debt  to  me,  "  I  will  repay  it"  Then 
also  with  that  spiritual  pleasantry, 

"  I  Paul  write l  it  with  mine  own  hand."  At 
once  movingly  and  pleasantly;  if  when  Paul 
did  not  refuse  to  execute  a  bond  for  him,  he 
should  refuse  to  receive  him  !  This  would  both 
shame  Philemon  into  compliance,  and  bring 
Onesimus  out  of  trouble.  "  I  write  it,"  he 
says,  "  with  mine  own  hand."  Nothing  is  more 
affectionate  than  these  "  bowels,"  nothing  more 
earnest,  nothing  more  zealous.  See  what2  great 
concern  he  bestows  in  behalf  of  one  man. 
"  Albeit  I  do  not  say  to  thee  how  thou  owest 
unto  me  even  thine  own  self  besides."  Then 
that  it  might  not  appear  insulting  to  him,  whom 
he  requests,  if  he  had  not  the  confidence  to  ask 
and  obtain  in  behalf  of  a  theft,  he  in  some 
measure  relieves  this,  saying,  "  That  I  say  not 
unto  thee  how  thou  owest  to  me  even  thine 
own  self  besides."  Not  only  thine  own  things, 
but  thyself  also.  And  this  proceeded  from  love, 
and  was  according  to  the  rule  of  friendship,  and 
was  a  proof  of  his  great  confidence.  See  how 
he  everywhere  provides  for  both,  that  he  may 
ask  with  great  security,  and  that  this  may  not 
seem  a  sign  of  too  little 3  confidence  in  him. 

Ver.  20.  "Yea,  brother." 

What  is,  "Yea,  brother"?  Receive  him,  he 
says.  For  this  we  must  understand  though  un- 
expressed. For  dismissing  all  pleasantry,  he 
again  pursues  his  former  considerations,  that  is, 
serious  ones.  And  yet  even  these  are  serious. 
For  the  things  that  proceed  from  Saints  are  of 
themselves  serious,  even  when  they  are  pleas- 
antry. 

"  Yea,  brother,  let  me  have  joy  of  thee  in  the 
Lord,  refresh  my  heart  in  Christ."  4 

That  is,  thou  grantest  the  favor  to  the  Lord, 
not  to  me.  "  My  heart,"  that  is,  toward  thy- 
self. 

Ver.  21.  "  Having  confidence  in  thy  obedi- 
ence, I  write  unto  thee." 

What  stone  would  not  these  things  have  soft- 
ened ?  What  wild  beast  would  not  these  things 
have  rendered  mild,  and  prepared  to  receive 
him  heartily  ?  After  having  borne  witness  to  him 
by  so  many  great  testimonies  of  his  goodness, 

1   [rypavj/a,  the  epistolary  aorist. — P.  S.] 
*  Colb.  "  what  entreaty  he  makes." 

3  The  Editor  has  ventured  to  insert  njn  (torn  Raphelius'  conjec- 
ture. Old  Lat.  omits  the  former  negative.  If  the  common  text 
("  too  much  confidence  ")  is  right,  "  security  "  means  confidence  in 
Philemon,  but  that  is  indifferent  Greek. 

4  So  the  best  MSS.  and  most  Fathers  for  ivtcvpiy.  Hemster- 
husius  quoted  in  New  Par.  defends  the  Vulgate  Ego  te  fruar  in 
Domino  for  the  former  clause,  giving  it  a  general  sense ;  Beza  has 
kunc  fructum.  [A.  V.  "  my  bowels  in  the  Lord  " ;  R.  V.  "  my 
heart  in  Christ."--  P.  S.] 


he  is  not  ashamed  again  to  excuse  himself.  He 
says,  Not  barely  requesting  it,  nor  as  command- 
ing it,  nor  arbitrarily,  but  "  having  confidence  in 
thy  obedience  I  wrote  unto  thee."  What  he  had 
said  at  the  beginning,  "  having  confidence,"  that 
he  also  says  here  in  the  sealing  up  of  his  letter. 

"  Knowing  that  thou  wilt  also  do  more  than  I 
say." 

At  the  same  time  in  saying  this  he  excited 
him.  For  he  would  have  been  ashamed,  though 
for  nothing  else,  if  having  such  credit  with  him 
as  this,  that  he  would  do  more  than  he  said,  — 
he  should  not  do  so  much. 

Ver.  22.  "  But  withal  prepare  me  also  a  lodg- 
ing :  for  I  trust  that  through  your  prayers  I  shall 
be  given  unto  you." 

This  also  was  the  part  of  one  who  was  exceed- 
ingly confident  —  or  rather  this  too  was  in  be- 
half of  Onesimus,  that  not  being  indifferent,  but 
knowing  that  he  upon  his  return  would  know  the 
things  relating  to  him,  they  might  lay  aside  all 
remembrance  of  the  wrong,  and  might  the  rather 
grant  the  favor.  For  great  was  the  influence 
and  the  honor  of  Paul  residing  among  them,  of 
Paul  in  his  age,  of  Paul  after  imprisonment. 
Again,  it  is  a  proof  of  their  love  that  he  says 
that  they  pray;  and  to  attribute  to  them  so 
much  as  that  they  pray. for  "him."  For  al- 
though I  be  now  in  danger,  yet  nevertheless  you 
will  see  me  if  ye  pray  for  it. 

Ver.  23.  "  Epaphras,  my  fellow-prisoner  in 
Christ  Jesus,  saluteth  thee." 

He  was  sent  by  the  Colossians,  so  that  from 
this  it  appears  that  Philemon  was  also  at  Co- 
lossse.  And  he  calls  him  his  "  fellow-prisoner," 
showing  that  he  also  was  in  much  tribulation,  so 
that  if  not  on  his  own  account,  yet  on  account 
of  the  other,  it  was  right  that  he  should  be 
heard.  For  he  that  is  in  tnbuiation,  and  over- 
looks himself,  and  is  concerned  for  others,  de- 
serves to  be  heard. 

And  he  puts  him  to  shame  from  another  con- 
sideration, if  his  countryman  is  a  fellow-prisoner 
with  Paul  and  suffers  affliction  with  him,  and  he 
himself  does  not  grant  him  a  favor  in  behalf  of 
his  own  servant.  And  he  has  added,  "  my  fellow- 
prisoner  in  Christ  Jesus,"  instead  of  on  account 
of  Christ. 

Ver.  24.  "  Mark,  Aristarchus,  Demas,  Luke, 
my  fellow-workers." 

Why  then  does  he  put  Luke  last  ?  And  yet  he 
elsewhere  says,  "  Only  Luke  is  with  me  "  (2  Tim. 
iv.  n),  and  "Demas,"  he  says,  was  one  of  those 
who  "forsook  him,  having  loved  the  present 
world."  (2  Tim.  iv.  10.)  All  these  things, 
although  they  are  mentioned  elsewhere,  yet 
nevertheless  ought  not  to  be  passed  over  here 
without  enquiry,  nor  ought  we  merely  to  hear 
them  as  things  of  course.  But  how  comes  he  to 
say  that  he  who  forsook  him  salutes  them  ?    For 


556 


WORKS   OF   ST.   CHRYSOSTOM. 


[Homily  111. 


«■  Erastus,"  he  says,  "abode  at  Corinth."  (2  Tim. 
rv.  20.)  He  adds  Epaphras,  both  as  known  to 
them,  and  being  of  their  country.  And  Mark, 
as  being  himself  also  an  admirable  man.  Why 
then  does  he  number  Demas  with  these  ?  Per- 
haps it  was  after  this  that  he  became  more  re- 
miss, when  he  saw  the  dangers  multiplied.  But 
Luke  being  last  became  first.  And  from  these 
indeed  he  salutes  him,  urging  him  the  more  to 
obedience,  and  calls  them  his  fellow-laborers, 
and  in  this  way  shames  him  into  granting  the 
request. 

Ver.  25.  "The  grace  of  our  Lord  Jesus 
Christ  be  with  your  spirit.    Amen." 

Moral.  He  hath  closed  his  Epistle  with  a 
prayer.  And  indeed  prayer  is  a  great  good, 
salutary,  and  preservative  of  our  souls.  But  it  is 
great  when  we  do  things  worthy  of  it,  and  do 
not  render  ourselves  unworthy.  And  thou  too, 
therefore,  when  thou  goest  to  the  priest,  and  he 
shall  say  to  thee,  "The  Lord  will  have  mercy 
on  thee,  my  son,"  do  not  confide  in  the  word 
only,  but  add  also  works.  Do  acts  worthy  of 
mercy,  God  will  bless  thee,  my  son,  if  indeed  thou 
doest  things  worthy  of  blessing.  He  will  bless 
thee,  if  thou  showest  mercy  to  thy  neighbor. 
For  the  things  which  we  wish  to  obtain  from 
God,  of  those  we  ought  first  to  impart  to  our 
neighbors.  But  if  we  deprive  our  neighbors 
of  them,  how  can  we  wish  to  obtain  them? 
"  Blessed,"  He  says,  "are  the  merciful :  for  they 
shall  obtain  mercy."  (Matt.  v.  7.)  For  if  men 
show  mercy  to  such,  much  more  will  God,  but 
to  the  unmerciful  by  no  means.  "  For  he  shall 
have  judgment  without  mercy  to  him  that  hath 
showed  no  mercy."    (Jas.  ii.  13.) 

An  excellent  thing  is  mercy  !  Why  then  hast 
thou  not  done  it  to  another?  Dost  thou  wish  to 
be  pardoned,  when  thou  offendest?  why  then 
dost  thou  not  thyself  pardon  him  who  has 
offended  thee?  But  thou  comest  to  God,  ask- 
ing of  Him  the  kingdom  of  heaven,  and  thou 
thyself  dost  not  give  money  when  it  is  begged 
of  thee.  For  this  cause  we  do  not  obtain  mercy, 
because  we  do  not  show  mercy.  But  why  ?  you 
say.  Is  not  this  also  a  part  of  mercy,  to  show 
mercy  to  the  unmerciful  ?  Nay  ! 1  For  he  that 
treated  with  the  greatest  kindness  the  hard- 
hearted cruel  man,  that  had  done  numberless 
ills  to  his  neighbor,  how  should  he  be  merciful? 
What  then,  say  you  ?  Hath  not  the  leaver  saved 
us,  who  had  committed  infinite  evils?  It  hath 
delivered  us  from  them,  not  that  we  should 
commit  them  again,  but  that  we  may  not  com- 
mit them.  For  " how  shall  we,"  it  is  said,  "that 
are  dead  to  sin,  live  any  longer  therein "  ? 
(Rom.   vi.  2.) 

"  What  then  ?  shall  we  sin  because  we  are  not 


1  The  negative  is  understood  in  "  for.' 


under  the  law?  God  forbid."  (v.  15.)  For 
this  cause  God  hath  delivered  thee  from  those 
sins  that  thou  mightest  no  more  run  back  to 
that  dishonor.  Since  even  physicians  relieve 
their  feverish  patients  from  their  heat,  not  that 
they  may  abuse  their  health  to  their  injury  and 
disorder,  (since  it  would  be  better  to  be  sick,  if 
one  was  about  to  use  his  health  only  that  he 
might  confine  himself  again  to  his  bed,)  but 
having  learnt  the  evils  that  arise  from  sickness, 
they  may  no  longer  fall  into  the  same,  that  they 
may  the  more  securely  preserve  their  health, 
that  they  may  do  everything  that  conduces  to 
its  preservation. 

How  then  ?  you  say :  what  is  the  lovingkind- 
ness  of  God,  if  He  is  not  about  to  save  the  bad? 
For  oftentimes  I  hear  many  talking  in  this  way, 
that  He  is  the  Friend  of  man,  and  will  by  all 
means  save  all.  That  we  may  not  therefore 
vainly  deceive  ourselves,  (for  I  remember  that 
I  made  a  promise  of  this  kind  to  you,)  come 
let  us  to-day  move  this  argument.  I  lately  dis- 
coursed with  you  about  Hell,  and  I  deferred  my 
argument  upon  the  lovingkindness  of  God.  It 
is  proper  therefore  to-day  to  resume  it.  That 
there  will,  then,  be  a  hell,  we  have,  as  I  think, 
sufficiently  proved,  bringing  forward  the  deluge, 
and  former  evils,  and  arguing  that  it  is  not  possi- 
ble that  He  who  performed  these  things  should 
leave  the  men  of  the  present  age  unpunished. 
For  if  thus  He  chastised  those  who  sinned  be- 
fore the  Law,  He  will  not  let  those  go  unpun- 
ished who  after  grace  have  committed  greater 
wickedness.  It  has  been  questioned  therefore 
how  is  He  good  ?  how  merciful  to  man,  if  at  least 
He  punishes?  and  we  have  deferred  the  argu- 
ment, that  we  might  not  overwhelm  your  ears 
with  a  multitude  of  words. 

Come,  to-day  let  us  discharge  the  debt,  and 
show  how  good  is  God,  even  in  punishing.  For 
this  discourse  would  be  suitable  for  us  in  oppo- 
sition to  the  heretics.  Let  us  therefore  pay 
earnest  heed  to  it.  God,  standing  in  no  need 
of  anything  from  us,  yet  created  us.  For  that 
He  stood  in^need  of  us,  is  manifest  from  His 
having  made  us  after  a  long  time.  For  He  might 
have  made  us  long  ago,  if  He  had  needed  us. 
For  if  He  Himself  was,  even  without  us,  and  we 
were  made  in  later  times,  He  made  us,  not  need- 
ing us. 

He  made  the  Heaven,  the  earth,  the  sea,  all 
things  that  exist,  for  our  sake.  Tell  me,  are  not 
these  marks  of  goodness?  And  many  things 
one  might  mention.  But  to  cut  short  the  mat- 
ter, "  He  maketh  the  sun  to  rise  on  the  evil  and 
the  good,  and  sendeth  rain  on  the  just  and  on 
the  unjust."  (Matt.  v.  45.)  Is  not  this  a  mark 
of  goodness?  No,  you  say.  For  I  said  once 
in  conversing  with  a  Marcionite,  Are  not  these 
things  a  mark  of  goodness  ?  and  he  answered,  If 


Homily  III.] 


HOMILIES   ON   PHILEMON. 


557 


He  did  not  call  men  to  account  for  their  sins,  it 
were  a  mark  of  goodness.  But  if  He  calls  them 
to  account,  it  is  not  goodness.  That  man,  how- 
ever, is  not  now  present.  But  come,  let  us  repeat 
what  was  then  said,  and  more  beside.  For  I, 
out  of  my  superfluity,  show  that  if  He  did  not 
call  men  to  account,  He  would  not  be  good ; 
but  because  He  does  call  them  to  account,  there- 
fore He  is  good. 

For,  say,  if  He  did  not  call  us  to  account, 
would  human  life  then  have  endured  ?  Should 
we  not  then  have  fallen  into  the  state  of  beasts  ? 
For  if  when  there  is  this  fear  impending  over  us, 
and  the  giving  account,  and  judgments,  we  have 
gone  beyond  fishes  in  devouring  one  another,  we 
have  thrown  wolves  and  lions  into  the  shade  in 
ravaging  one  another's  possessions ;  if  He  did 
not  call  us  to  account,  and  we  were  persuaded 
of  this,  with  how  great  tumult  and  confusion 
would  life  be  filled?  What  would  be  the  fabled 
labyrinth  after  this,  compared  with  the  perplexi- 
ties of  the  world  ?  Would  you  not  see  number- 
less indecencies  and  disorders  ?  For  who  then 
would  have  respected  his  father  any  more  ?  Or 
who  would  have  spared  his  mother  ?  Who  would 
have  left  unattempted  any  pleasure,  any  wicked- 
ness? And  that  the  matter  is  so,  I  will  en- 
deavor to  show  you  from  one  house  only.  How  ? 
You  who  raise  these  questions  and  who  have 
servants ;  if  I  could  make  it  manifest  to  these, 
that  if  they  should  destroy  the  family  of  their  mas- 
ters,1 if  they  should  insult  their  persons,  if  they 
should  plunder  everything,  if  they  should  turn 
things  upside  down,  if  they  should  treat  them  as 
enemies,  they  would  not  threaten  them,  nor  cor- 
rect them,  nor  punish  them,  nor  even  grieve 
them  with  a  word,  would  this  be  any  proof  of 
goodness?  I  maintain  that  this  is  the  extreme 
of  cruelty,  not  only  because  the  wife  and  chil- 
dren are  betrayed  by  this  unreasonable  kindness, 
but  because  the  slaves  themselves  are  destroyed 
before  them.  For  they  will  be  drunkards,  wan- 
ton, dissolute,  and  more  irrational  than  any 
beasts.  Is  this,  tell  me,  a  proof  of  goodness,  to 
trample  upon  the  noble  nature  of  the  soul,  and 
to  destroy  both  themselves  and  others  beside  ? 
Seest  thou  that  to  call  men  to  account  is  a  proof 
of  great  goodness?  But  why  do  I  speak  of 
slaves,  who  more   readily  fall  into  these  sins? 


1  fi«  mrmt  to*. 


But  let  a  man  have  sons,  and  let  him  permit 
them  to  do  everything  they  will,  and  lef  him 
not  punish  them ;  will  they  not  be  worse  than 
anything?  tell  me.  In  the  case  of  men  then, 
it  is  a  mark  of  goodness  to  punish,  and  of  cruelty 
not  to  punish,  and  is  it  not  so  in  the  case  of 
God?  So  that  because  He  is  good,  therefore 
He  has  prepared  a  hell. 

And  do  you  wish  that  I  should  speak  of 
another  instance  of  God's  goodness  ?  It  is  not 
only  this,  but  that  He  does  not  suffer  the  good 
to  become  bad.  For  if  they  were  destined  to 
meet  with  the  same  things,  they  would  all  be 
bad.  But  now  this  also  does  not  a  little  con- 
sole the  good.  For  hear  the  Prophet,  say- 
ing, "The  righteous  shall  rejoice  when  he 
seeth  the  vengeance  upon  the  ungodly,  he 
shall  wash  his  hands  in  the  blood  of  the  sin- 
ner." (Ps.  Iviii.  10.)  Not  rejoicing  on  ac- 
count of  it,  God  forbid !  but  fearing  lest  he 
should  suffer  the  same  things,  he  will  render  his 
own  life  more  pure.  This  then  is  a  mark  of  His 
great  care.  Yes,  you  say,  but  He  ought  only 
to  threaten,  and  not  to  punish  also.  But  if  He 
does  punish,  and  still  you  say  it  is  a  matter  of 
threat,  and  on  that  account  become  more  sloth- 
ful, if  it  were  really  but  a  threat,  would  you  not 
become  more  supine?  If  the  Ninevites  had 
known  it  was  a  matter  of  threat,  they  would  not 
have  repented.  But  because  they  repented, 
they  cause  the  threat  to  stop  at  words  only. 
Dost  thou  wish  it  to  be  a  threat  only?  Thou 
hast  the  disposal  of  that  matter.  Become  a 
better  man,  and  it  stops  only  at  the  threat.  But 
if,  which  be  far  from  thee  !  thou  despiseth  the 
threat,  thou  wilt  come  to  the  experience  of  it. 
The  men  before2  the  flood,  if  they  had  feared 
the  threat,  would  not  have  experienced  the  exe- 
cution of  it.  And  we,  if  we  fear  the  threat,  shall 
not  expose  ourselves  to  experience  the  reality. 
God  forbid  we  should.  And  may  the  merciful 
God  grant  that  we  all  henceforth,  having  been 
brought  to  sound  mind,  may  obtain  those  un- 
speakable blessings.  Of  which  may  we  all  be 
thought  worthy,  through  the  grace  and  loving- 
kindness  of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  with  whom 
to  the  Father,  together  with  the  Holy  Ghost,  be 
glory,  power,  and  honor,  now  and  for  ever  and 
ever.     Amen. 

*  So  Sav.  al.  "  of." 


INDEXES. 


HOMILIES  ON   GALATIANS  AND  EPHESIANS. 


INDEX  OF  SUBJECTS. 


Abraham,  justified  by  faith,  25;  his 
household  a  pattern  of  har- 
mony and  good  government, 
148;  his  hospitality  and  con- 
tempt of  riches,  156. 

Absalom,  122. 

Achan,  his  sin  brought  calamities 
upon  all,  79. 

Adam,  the  parent  stock  of  mankind, 

143- 

Adultery,  an  instance  of  the  willful- 
ness of  sin,  57. 

Agar,  interpretation  of,  34  (note). 

Allegory,  what,  34. 

Almsgiving,  duty  of,  45 ;  the  danger 
of  omitting  the  duty,  69;  en- 
forced, 172. 

Altar,  Christian,  64. 

Amattari,  the  family  of,  mentioned 
I  Sam.  x.  21;  the  text  quoted 
in  illustration  of  God's  Paternal 
Government  over  the  families  of 
heaven  and  earth,  82  (and  note). 

Ambition  of  those  who  wished  to  in- 
troduce circumcision,  42. 

Angels,  men  become  in  the  Gospel, 
6;  Priests  called,  8-28;  St.  Taul 
received  as,  32;  their  life  a  pat- 
tern for  Christians,  55;  cannot 
confer  spiritual  gifts,  60;  are 
taught  the  mystery  of  the  Gospel 
by  the  Church,  80;  their  knowl- 
edge limited,  80;  orders  of  them 
alluded  to,  81 ;  as  implied  in  the 
word  "  family,"  82  (and  note) ; 
surround  Elisha  and  encamp  un- 
seen as  guardians  of  God's  saints, 
95;  keep  unity,  99;  are  a  pattern 
of  love  and  unity  to  us,  100;  are 
present  at  the  Christian  mysteries, 
120;  represented  as  girded  like 
soldiers,  165. 

Anger,  to  be  directed  against  the 
devil  and  against  ourselves,  58, 
163;  forbidden  against  our 
brethren,  118;  its  cure,  118;  it 
is  giving  place  to  the  devil,  ib. ; 
of  momentary  anger,  128. 

Anomceans,  28  (note). 

Apostles,  &c,  Eph.  iv.  11,  12;  the 
subordination  of  the  Christian 
ministry  not  denned  in  this  text, 
104. 


Apostolic  vocation,  prerogative  of,  2. 

Argument,  not  the  way  to  attain  spir- 
itual wisdom,  60. 

Arius,  the  heretic,  164. 

Armor,  of  the  Christian,  167. 

Atonement,  4,  22,  23,  27;  the  mar- 
velousness  of  it  and  its  effects,  53. 

Baby  las,  St.,  buried  in  his  fetters,  96. 

Baptism,  not  the  Law,  makes  us  sons, 
4;  a  crucifixion  with  Christ, 
22;  regenerating  with  the  Word, 
35;  a  confession  of  faith  before 
and  after  it,  53  (and  note) ;  no 
second  Baptism,  57,  73;  raises 
Christians  to  sit  together  with 
Christ,  67;  washes  away  sin,  69; 
the  beginning  of  righteousness, 
114;  the  danger  of  sin  after  it, 
171. 

Bitterness,  taints  the  whole  character, 
122;  is  powerless,  122;  must  be 
entirely  eradicated,  125. 

Boasting  in  self  ultimately  leads  to 
humility,  44. 

Body,  not  sinful,  but  the  instrument 
of  sin,  39;  not  necessarily  evil, 
41 ;  nor  opposed  to  the  spirit, 
41 ;   not  evil  in  substance,  42. 

Body,  not  sinful  in  itself,  but  sins, 
when  left  to  itself,  73;  should 
be  in  subjection  to  the  soul,  74; 
the  compactness  and  sympathy 
of  its  members  a  type  of  those  of 
the  Church,  106,  117;  its  limits 
forbid  covetousness,  58;  and  ex- 
cess, 138;  the  Church  is  Christ's 
body,  62 ;  receives  life  from  Him 
as  the  body  from  the  head,  106 ; 
as  such  must  not  be  torn  by 
schism,  ib. 

Body  and  blood  of  Christ,  partaken 
in  the  Eucharist,  63. 

Bonds,  their  great  power,  85  et  scqq. ; 
a  type  of  bondage  by  sin,  88; 
see  Prison. 

Carnal,  what  acts  are  so  called,  73. 
Cathari,  a   name  indirectly  assumed 

by  the  Novatians,  119  (and  note). 
Catholics,   accused  of  being  through 

ambition     contentious     against 

heretics,  7. 


Charity,  can  only  be  exercised  in  this 

life,  46 ;  to  be  extended  to  all,  ib. 

Children,  the  Three.   Holy  Children, 

92,  93- 

Children,  admonished,  153;  their 
duty  obedience,  153;  need  not 
be  made  monks,  but  must  be 
brought  up  as  Christians,  154; 
to  be  taught  self-discipline  and 
trained  for  immortality,  154;  re- 
quire this  training  more  for  courts 
than  for  monastic  life,  155;  they 
who  train  them  are  forming  stat- 
ues to  Christ,  156. 

Chosen,  how  Christians  are  chosen, 
55;  are  made  manifest  by  seal- 
ing, 56. 

Christ,  His  sufferings  voluntary,  4; 
the  cause  both  of  our  hidden 
and  of  our  visible  life,  22;  was 
sacrificed  for  all  men,  23;  yet 
loved  each  enough  to  die  for 
him  alone,  ib.  ;  awful  mysterious- 
ness  of  His  death,  23;  took  on 
Him  the  curse  of  the  Cross,  27; 
in  the  baptized,  29,  30;  Chris- 
tians fulfill  the  Law  one  with  and 
for  another,  43;  our  Mediator 
and  Judge,  5 1 ;  above  all  prin- 
cipality and  power,  61;  our 
Head,  62,  105;  made  man's 
nature  His  garment,  62;  His 
deep  humiliation  and  high  ex- 
altation, 62;  specially  present 
in  the  Eucharist,  65;  how  He 
broke  down  the  middle  wall,  71; 
and  abolished  the  enmity,  72; 
became  a  Jew  by  circumcision, 
73;  a  Gentile  by  being  a  curse, 
ib. ;  united  both  Jews  and  Gen- 
tiles and  slew  the  enmity  by  His 
Cross,  73;  the  chief  corner-stone, 
75;  brought  us  to  Himself,  75; 
dwells  in  the  faithful,  81;  His 
glory  in  the  Church,  82;  the  ex- 
emplar of  love  to  enemies,  84; 
and  of  forgiveness  of  injuries, 
129;  led  captivity  captive,  104; 
is  the  Head  of  the  Church,  and 
the  Saviour  of  the  Body,  144; 
the  Bridegroom  of  the  Church, 
144;  His  love  to  the  Church  a 
pattern  for  husbands,  142-145. 


562  GALATIANS  AND  EPHESIANS :   INDEX  OF  SUBJECTS. 


Christians,  in  all  conditions  called 
saints  and  faithful,  49;  their 
blessings  spiritual,  50;  how 
chosen  in  Christ,  51 ;  in  order  to 
be  unblamable,  51 ;  ought  to 
be  like  Angels,  55,  62,  100 ;  how 
sealed  by  the  Spirit,  56,  120; 
their  privilege  in  having  Christ 
for  their  head,  62;  are  members 
of  His  body,  62;  partakers  of 
His  body  in  the  Eucharist,  63; 
are  made  to  sit  in  heavenly 
places,  67;  are  created  unto 
good  works,  68;  may  not  live  in 
the  flesh,  but  in  heaven,  74;  are 
given  what  elder  saints  toiled 
after,  75;  are  collectively  and 
severally  the  temple  of  God,  75 ; 
are  bound  as  one  body  by  mu- 
tual ties,  102 ;  all  equal  in  Christ, 
102;  alike  in  grace,  differ  in 
gifts,  103;  how  light  in  the 
Lord,  133;  cannot  serve  God 
and  mammon,  135;  must  walk 
circumspectly  and  not  give  of- 
fense, 137;  must  put  on  the 
whole  armor  of  God,  160;  their 
conflict  with  the  devil,  161 ; 
must  stand  well  and  be  braced 
up  for  the  fight,  163;  how  they 
are  to  keep  the  Passover,  165; 
their  warfare  ceases  in  the  land 
of  promise,  166;  are  here  in  a 
pilgrimage  or  campaign,  166. 

Chrysostom,  St.,  did  not  preach  to 
please,  79;  calls  to  public  hu- 
miliation, 102 ;  offers  to  resign 
his  dignity  for  the  sake  of  unity, 
108;  his  times,  manifold  vices 
°f»  78,  79  (and  note)  ;  neglect 
of  Communion,  64;  degeneracy 
of  teachers,  78;  Church  offi- 
ces salable,  ib. ;  the  Church  in 
conflagration  through  pride, 
100;  treatment  of  slaves,  1 23. 

Church,   name  of,  implies  unity,  4; 
divided  into  a  thousand  parties, 
8;    represented  by   Sarah,   34; 
its    exaltation    as    the  body  of 
Christ,  62;    is  Christ's  fullness, 
62 ;  shall  continue  till  He  comes, 
76,  82;  is  one  body  in  Him,  99; 
binds    all    together    by    mutual, 
good  offices,  ib. ;  is  like  a  house 
built  of  men's  souls,   100,  101; 
set  on  fire  by  pride,  ib.  ;  ought 
not  to  seek  the  support  of  bad 
men,    107;     is    the    spouse    of 
Christ,  144;   her  condition  when 
He  took  her,  ib. 

Circumcision,  brings  us  under  the 
Law,  37;  observed  by  St.  Paul, 
not  preached,  38. 

Clamor,  forbidden,  123;  is  the  vehi- 
cle of  anger,  a  special  fault  of 
women,  ib. 

Commandments,  the  Ten,  the  order 
of  them,  153. 

Communicants,  unworthy,  79;  care- 
less and  formal,  108;  must  re- 
frain from  reviling,  and  why,  120. 

Communion,  Church,  not  to  be  ex- 
panded to  take  in  bad  men,  107. 

Concession,  and  command,  difference 


between,    15;   condescension   of 
the  Apostles  to  the  Judaists,  1- 

15- 
Corner-stone.     See  Christ. 

Corruption,  various  meanings  of  the 

word,  171. 
Courtezans,  151. 
Covenants,  old  and   new  proceeded 

both  from  the  Father  and  the 

Son,  6. 
Covetousness  is  idolatry  in  Christians, 

133-34;    leads  to  the   death  of 

the  soul,  134. 
Cross,  destroys  the  need  of  the  Law, 

3;   removes  the  curse,  27;   the 

boast  of  Christians,   46;    raises 

them  above  the  old  Dispensation 

as  well  as  above  the  world,  46. 
Curiosity,  generally  misdirected  and 

misplaced,  141. 

Damsels,  devoted  to  monastic  life, 
1 15-16. 

David,  a  guileless  character,  123. 

Deacon,  his  office  in  dismissing  the 
congregation,  64  (and  note). 

Death,  of  the  soul,  what  it  is,  134; 
the  second  death,  172. 

Devil,  why  called  the  prince  of  this 
world,  66;  why  of  the  power  of 
the  air,  ib.;  takes  advantage  of 
men's  quarrels,  1 19;  and  of  their 
covetousness,  162;  his  wiles,  159; 
his  forces,  160;  may  be  overcome, 
160;  but  is  not  to  be  wrestled 
with  so  much  as  trampled  on, 
162;  his  fiery  darts  are  doubts, 
169;  and  evil  desires  and  sharp 
sorrows,  169;  to  be  slain  by  keep- 
ing the  commandments,  169. 

Dispensation  of  grace,  76. 

Drunkenness,  excludes  from  Heaven, 
69;  its  temporal  ill  effects,  138. 

Earnest,  the  meaning  of  the  word  ex- 
plained, 56;  see  Spirit. 

Economy,  of  the  Apostles  about  the 
Law,  15;  to  be  beneficial  to  the 
objects  of  it,  must  be  concealed 
from  them,  16;  of  St.  Paul  in 
circumcising  Timothy,  16. 

Education  in  Scripture  remedies  that 
in  the  Classics,  154;  consists  in 
nurture,  see  Children. 

Eli,  154. 

Elisha,  95. 

Ephesus,  the  metropolis  of  [Procon- 
sular] Asia,  49;  the  abode  of  St. 
John  and  of  Timothy,  and  a 
great  resort  of  philosophers, 
ib.  ;  its  inhabitants  advanced  in 
knowledge,  49. 

Epiphany,  the  great  festival  of  the 
Greek  Church  in  remembrance 
of  our  Lord's  Baptism  and  Birth, 
63  (note);  a  season  for  Com- 
municating, ib. 

Equality  of  ranks,  inconsistent  with 
peace,  147;  Christian  equality, 
102;  civil  slavery  not  inconsist- 
ent with  it,  142;  mutual  service, 
158. 

Eucharist,  called  the  flesh  of  Christ, 
41 ;      Christ's   body   and    blood 


partaken  in  it,  63;  the  prepara- 
tion for  it,  63;  profanation  of  it, 
64;  neglect  of  it,  ib.;  formal- 
ism of  Communicating  only  at 
the  seasons,  danger  of  unworthy 
Communicating,  63;  inconsist- 
ency of  coming  to  Service  and 
not  Communicating,  64;  unfit- 
ness not  the  fault  of  nature  but 
of  indolence,  65;  Christ  specially 

{>resent  in  the  Eucharist,  65;  al- 
usions   to  the  Eucharistic  Ser- 
vice, 120-21;   see  Sacrifice. 
Evidences,  of  the  Gospel,  9. 
Evil,  not  necessarily  connected  with 
this  life,   5;    not  in  our  bodily 
substance  but  our  will,  42. 

Faith,  vitiated  by  a  slight  adultera- 
tion, 7;  to  be  defended  in  slight 
matters,  8;  slight  perversion  of, 
invalidates  the  ministerial  author- 
ity, 8;  anterior  to  the  I^aw,  26- 
27;  justifies  without  the  Law,  26; 
but  not  without  love,  37;  ever 
sees  Christ,  24;  gains  miraculous 
and  spiritual  powers,  25;  as  no 
force  if  the  Law  be  added,  25; 
makes  us  sons  of  God,  30;  al- 
ways joined  with  love  by  St. 
Paul,  60;  will  not  save  without 
works,  67;  a  shield  to  protect 
ready  believers,  169. 

Faithful,  the,  bear  about  the  form  of 
Christ,  30 ;  the  body  of  Christ,  4 1 . 

Falsehood,  an  instance  of  willful  sin, 

58. 

Fasting,  a  means  of  intercession,  101. 
Father  and  Son,  one  in  will,  4;  one 

in  act,  6;  reveal  each  other,  11, 

146. 
Fathers,  their  duties  in  the  nurture  of 

their  children,  154. 
Faults,  to  be  mildly  corrected,  43. 
Fetters  and  bonds,  gloried  in  by  St. 

Paul,  84,  &c. 
Fireworshipers,  110. 
Flesh,  means  not  the  body,  but  the 

depraved  will,  41. 
Forgiveness,  motives  for  it,  128-29. 
Foundation,  irarajSoAJ),  a  beautiful  al- 
lusion contained  in  the  word,  51 : 

Christ  the  foundation,  75. 
"  Fullness  of  the  times  "  was  Christ's 

coming,  54. 

"Fullness  of  Christ"   is  the 

Church,  62. 

"  Fullness  of  God  "  explained, 

82. 

Galatians,  nature  of  their  error,  2; 
feared  to  forsake  the  Law,  6; 
justly  called  "foolish,"  23;  sons 
of  Abraham  as  Isaac  was,  34; 
misled  by  party  spirit,  40. 

"Gather  together  into  one,"  the 
meaning  of  the  expression,  54. 

Gentile  customs,  8. 

Gentiles,  raised  above  the  privileges 
of  the  Jews,  71;  their  calling  a 
mystery,  80:  the  vanity  of  their 
worship  as  directed  to  the  crea- 
tures, no;  it  flattered  men's  evil 
passions,  ill. 


GALATIANS  AND  EFHESIANS:  INDEX  OF  SUBJECTS.  563 


God,  loves  us  for  His  own  Name's 
sake,  56;  a  just  apprehension  of 
Him  forbids  us  to  doubt  or  ra- 
tionalize, 60;  the  knowledge  of 
Him  derived  from  His  Spirit, 
ib. ;  His  goodness  not  to  be  pre- 
sumed upon,  69;  kind  to  the  un- 
thankful, 139;  no  respecter  of 
persons,  159. 

Good-pleasure,  the  meaning  of  the 
word,  52. 

Government,  in  its  origin  paternal,  82; 
must  be  centered  in  one,  146; 
exemplified  in  a  household,  159. 

Gospels,  one  in  substance,  though 
fourfold  in  form,  7;  easily  per- 
verted, 7. 

Gospel,  no  afterthought,  51,55;  may 
be  in  itself  an  offense,  in  the 
manner  of  preaching  it  should 
not  be,  137. 

Grace,  sets  us  free,  makes  us  new, 
heirs  and  sons,  30;  the  great 
change  it  produces  in  Christians, 
52;  arrays  the  soul  in  spiritual 
beauty,  53. 

(iuilelessness,  123. 

Habit,  one  sinful  one  may  ruin  us, 
68;  evil  ones  must  be  cured  by 
cultivating  their  opposites,  125- 
26. 

Hagar,  149. 

Hannah,  an  example  to  mothers, 
154;  of  watchfulness  and  prayer, 
170;  her  reverence  and  contri- 
tion, 170. 

Harlots,  their  treatment  of  their 
lovers,  53. 

Heretics,  denied  the  Co-equality  of 
the    Father    and    the    Son,    4; 
considered    this   life    essentially 
evil,  5. 

Herod,  judgment  upon,  90. 

Holiness  in  teachers  more  influential 
than  miracles,  77. 

Holy  children,  as  examples  of  tri- 
umph over  affliction,  93. 

Hospitality,  to  be  shown  to  the  poor, 
151. 

Household,  the  mistress's  duty  in  the 
conduct  of,  124;  when  well  or- 
dered sheds  a  fragrance  around, 
143;  is  a  little  city  and  its  head 
a  prince,  159. 

Husbands,  to  love  their  wives  as 
Christ  loved  the  Church,  144- 
45;  the  husband  the  head  of 
the  family,  146;  the  importance 
of  him  to  the  household,  148; 
character  of  a  good  one,  149; 
must  show  all  forbearance,  150; 
and  wean  his  wife  from  the 
world,  ib. 

Hymn,  the  Angelic  Hymn,  "  Holy, 
Holy,  Holy,"  sung  in  the  Eu- 
charistic  service,  64  (and  note), 
121,  165. 

Idolatry  of  Christians  is  covetousness, 

134;  its  origin,  135. 
Ignorance,  to    profess   it  more  wise 

than  to  profess  knowledge,  141. 
Incarnation,  effects  of,  30. 


Inheritance,  by  lot,  according  to  a 
purpose,  55. 

Israelites,  how  they  kept  the  Pass- 
over, 164;  how  they  fell,  165; 
their  history  is  a  mystery  or  type, 
ib. 

Jailer  at  Philippi,  conversion  of,  87. 

James  the  Less,  not  the  Lord's  brother, 
though  so  called,  13. 

Jeremiah  in  prison,  94. 

Jericho,  166. 

Jerusalem,  earthly  and  heavenly,  166. 

Jesting,  forbidden  to  Christians,  1 30; 
the  character  of  one  given  to  it, 
131;  enormous  when  extended 
to  Scripture,  131-32. 

Jesus,  the  Son  of  Nave,  the  type  of 
Jesus  the  Son  of  God,  166. 

Jews,  the  hindrance  to  their  conver- 
sion, 4;  their  blessings  earthly, 
50;  how  of  old  chosen  by  God, 
51;  their  privileges  how  stated 
by  St.  Paul,  71 ;  how  Jews  and 
Gentiles  are  made  one,  71. 

Job,  an  example  of  protracted  suffer- 
ing, 172. 

John  Baptist  in  prison,  94. 

Joseph  in  prison,  94. 

Judaizers  opposed  St.  Paul,  2;  their 
ambition,  42;  in  St.  Chrysostom's 
day,  8,  21 ;  heresy  of,  11. 

Judgments,  temporal,  a  call  to  repent- 
ance, 79. 

Julian,  St.,  a  recluse,  his  character, 
156. 

Lavcr,  of  Baptism.     See  Baptism. 

Law  the,  not  evil,  but  weak  and  dan- 
gerous, 20;  death  to,  different 
meanings  of,  22;  causes  faith 
not  to  avail,  25;  curse  of  re- 
moved by  the  Cross,  27;  par- 
tially restrains  sin,  28;  provided 
for  self-knowledge  and  self-re- 
straint, 29;  once  led  to,  now 
leads  from  Christ,  29 ;  sometimes 
means  Genesis,  often  the  Old 
Testament,  33;  obedience  to  part 
of,  subjects  to  the  whole,  36; 
abolished  to  make  room  for  a 
higher  rule  of  life,  39,  42;  ful- 
hllccl  by  the  various  gifts  of  the 
faithful,  43;  the  ceremonies  of, 
abolished  in  Christ,  72. 

Lent-season,  63. 

Light,  detects  darkness  by  its  own 
shining,  133,  136. 

Lot,  inheritance  by  lot  implies  that 
we  are  not  chosen  by  merit,  55 
(and  note). 

Love,  God's  love  the  cause  of  our 
being  chosen,  52;  how  to  under- 
stand its  extent,  82;  its  effects 
and  obligations  upon  man,  98; 
always  combined  with  faith,  60, 
171;  towards  enemies  enforced, 
82,  127-129;  its  fruit  unity  and 
mutual  confidence,  97-98;  is  the 
condition  of  our  receiving  the 
Spirit,  105;  love  between  hus- 
band and  wife,  149. 

Lowliness,  the  ground  of  all  graces, 

96. 


Man,  the  wonderful  exaltation  of  his 
nature  in  Christ,  61;  his  little- 
ness and  greatness,  62;  a  four- 
fold consideration  of  him,  114. 

Manichees,  considered  the  world  es- 
sentially evil,  5  (note) ;  and  the 
body,  39;  paid  divine  honors  to 
the  heavenly  bodies,  5. 

Manichees,  139  (and  note). 

Marcionites,  allowed  one  Gospel  only, 
7,  139  (and  note). 

Marks  of  the  Cross,  47. 

Marriage,  &c,  some  heretics  forbade 
it,  147;  rules  for,  151. 

Masters,  their  duties,  158. 

Mildness  in  correcting  enjoined,  43. 

Minister,  in  what  sense  not  applied 
to  the  Son,  54  (and  note). 

Ministers  of  the  Gospel  to  be  obeyed 
though  wicked,  8;  unless  they 
vitiate  the  faith,  8;  maintained 
by  their  disciples,  44;  mutual 
benefits  of  this,  45;  contrast  in 
the  case  of  Heathen  teachers, 
45  (note). 

Monks,  165  (note);  their  self-denial, 
248. 

Moses,  an  example  of  love  to  ene- 
mies, 83. 

Murder,  an  instance  of  voluntary  sin, 

57- 
Mystery,  "of  His  will,"  53;  the  call- 
ing of  the  Gentiles  so  called,  77; 
of  the  Gospel  made  known  to 
angels  by  the  Church,  80;  the 
union  of  Christ  and  the  Church 
so  called,  146. 

Natural,  what  acts  are  so  called,  73. 
Nature,  does  not  force  man  to  sin,  57. 
Necessity,  not  to  be  pleaded  in  excuse 

for  sin,  57. 
Nineveh,  its  repentance  an  example 

to  us,  101-2. 
Novatians,  denied  repentance  to  the 

lapsed,  25  (note). 

Oaths,  not  necessasy  to  beget  confi- 
dence, 62. 

Obedience,  slight  breach  of,  punish- 
able, 7. 

Passover,  its  historical  and  mystical 
meaning,  165;  how  kept  by  Is- 
raelites, how  to  be  kept  by  Chris- 
tians, 165. 

Paul,  St.,  followed  Christ's  example 
in  his  mode  of  preaching,  1 ;  his 
divine  calling  and  commission, 
2;  suddenness  of  his  conversion 
a  proof  of  its  being  divine,  10; 
sincerity  of  his  motives,  10;  his 
opposition  to  Christianity  on  re- 
ligious motives,  ib.;  called  on 
account  of  his  capacity,  10 ;  rea- 
son of  his  first  journey  from  An- 
tioch  to  Jerusalem,  11;  reason 
of  his  second  journey,  14;  his 
fervency  and  humility,  12;  equal 
in  dignity  to  St.  Peter,  12;  his 
humility  shown  in  his  visit  to  St 
Peter,  12;  his  doctrine  approved 
by  the  Apostles,  17;  his  tender- 
ness and  skill,  31-2;    observed, 


564         GALATIANS  AND  EPHESIANS:   INDEX  OF  SUBJECTS. 


but  did  not  preach,  circumcision, 
38;  usual  arrangement  of  his 
Epistles,  39;  why  he  wrote  that 
to  the  Galatians  with  his  own 
hand,  46;  a  proof  of  God's  love 
and  power,  52;  had  a  foretaste  of 
heavenly  blessings,  56;  his  sym- 
pathy and  affectionateness,  59; 
his  gentleness,  65 ;  bound  for  the 
Gentiles'  sake,  76;  saved  by 
grace,  76;  had  special  revelation 
of  the  calling  of  the  Gentiles, 
77;  his  zeal,  endurance,  and  wis- 
dom, 77;  attributed  all  to  grace, 
ib. ;  an  example  to  teachers,  ib. ; 
his  great  humility,  79;  his  earnest 
supplication,  81 ;  example  of  love 
to  enemies,  84;  glories  in  bonds, 
85 ;  but  not  before  Agrippa,  and 
why,  95 ;  his  skill  as  a  spiritual 
physician,  118;  his  simplicity 
and  condescension  in  admon- 
ishing children,  153;  overcame 
Satan,  161 ;  the  intensity  of  his 
love  to  Christ,  161;  asks  his 
brethren's  prayers,  168. 

Paul  of  Samosata,  heretic,  104  (note), 
164. 

Peter,  St.,  boldness  of  his  character, 
18;  did  not  really  dissemble  at 
Antioch,  ib.;  reasons  why  he 
appeared  to  do  so,  19;  instructed 
not  to  spurn  the  Gentiles,  77; 
his  deliverance  from  prison  by 
the  Angel,  86,  89-90. 

Poverty  the  lot  of  the  Christian,  46. 

Prayer,  the  Lord's  Prayer,  how  it 
should  affect  us,  120-21;  prayer 
unceasing  required  in  Christians, 
and  watchfulness,  169;  exempli- 
fied in  the  Canaanitish  woman, 
the  importunate  widow,  ib. ;  and 
in  Hannah,  170. 

Presence,  real,  of  Christ  in  the  Eucha- 
rist, 63-64. 

Priests,  may  be  understood  under  the 
term  "Angels,"  8,  28. 

Prison,  the  blessedness  of  it  for 
Christ's  sake,  85  et  seqq.;  in- 
stanced in  St.  Paul,  St.  Peter, 
Three  Holy  Children,  93;  Jere- 
miah, Joseph,  St.  John  the  Bap- 
tist, 94. 

Privileges,  Jewish  and  Christian  com- 
pared, 51 ;  present  privileges  but 
an  earnest,  56;  how  enhanced 
in  being  bestowed  through  Christ, 
52;  the  consideration  of  them 
very  awful,  62. 

Providence,  instanced  in  mercies  upon 
some,  and  judgments  upon  others, 
90;  implied  in  the  circumstances 
of  men,  139;  in  the  order  of 
nature,  140;  proved  by  analogy, 
140;  yet  wholly  mysterious,  140- 

Psalms,  the  expression   of  Christian 

cheerfulness,  138. 
Punishment,  degrees  of  it  in  hell,  69. 

Rationalizing,  its  absurdity  and  shal- 
lowness, 139-40. 
"Redeeming    the    time"   explained, 

137- 


Redemption,  absolute  redemption  will 
be  in  the  next  world,  56. 

Regeneration,  another  needed  by  Gal- 
atians, 32;  effected  by  the  Divine 
Words  in  baptism,  3*. 

Repentance,   possible   after  lapsing, 

25- 
Reproof,  is  charitable,  and  to  be  given 

at  any  hazard,  136. 

Resurrection  of  Christ,  effected  by 
His  own  power,  3. 

Resurrection,  more  miraculous  to  per- 
suade souls  than  raise  the  dead, 
61,  65. 

Reviling,  shameful  in  Christians,  163. 

Riches.     See  Cavetousness. 

Righteousness,  Jewish  and  Christian 
compared,  114;  is  in  respect  of 
God,  or  man,  114;  is  a  garment, 
115. 

Rites  of  the  law,  connected  with  each 
other,  37. 

Sabbath,  strictness  of  under  the  Law, 
7 ;  Judaic  observance  of  excludes 
from  grace,  21. 

Sacrifice,  the  Christian,  63-64;  prep- 
aration for  it,  63;  see  Eucharist. 

Saints,  a  common  name  for  Christians 
in  all  conditions,  50;  what  a 
saint  ought  to  be,  131. 

Salvation,  is  entirely  of  free  grace, 
yet  not  exclusive  of  our  virtue, 
52. 

Samuel,  the  child  of  a  good  mother, 

154. 
Sarah,  148. 

Satan,  seduces  gradually  and  secretly, 

7. 
Schism,  cuts  off  from  the  Spirit,  105; 

implies  want  of  love  and  of  holi- 
ness, 106;  especially  provokes 
God's  anger  —  like  the  sin  of 
those  who  mangled  Christ's  Body, 
ib.;  inexpiable  by  martyrdom, 
106  (and  note),  108. 

Schismatics,  to  be  avoided,  106. 

Scripture,  supreme  authority  of,  8; 
sense  of,  not  the  words  must  be 
considered,  n ;  profane  use  of, 
131;   understatements  of,  132. 

Seal,  of  the  Spirit     See  Spirit. 

Self-indulgence,  in  Christian  teachers 
impairs  their  power  of  convert- 
ing  and    keeping    in   the    fold, 

77- 
Servants,  to  he  taken  care  of,   148, 

159;  as  brethren,  157;  their  du- 
ties to  serve  with  good  will,  157- 
58;  taken  to  the  theater,  but  not 
to  church,  159. 
Sin,  is  evil,  not  the  world,  5 ;  not  to 
be  excused  by  nature  or  neces- 
sity, 57 ;  its  voluntariness  in- 
stanced by  various  cases,  with 
reference  to  the  Commandments, 
murder,  adultery,  theft,  perjury, 
assault,  rapine,  57  et  seqq.; 
would  not  be  punished  if  of  ne- 
cessity, ib. ;  the  ground  of  dis- 
cord, 97;  blinds  the  understand- 
ing, 1 12-13;  *s  self-destructive, 
113;  is  in  omission  as  well  as 
commission,    126;    is   the   only 


real  evil,  140;  the  source  of  cor- 
ruption both  of  body  and  soul, 
171 ;  should  be  put  away  by  acts 
of  mercy,  172. 

Slaves,  how  to  be  treated,  123-24. 

Slavery,  how  mitigated  by  the  Gospel, 
142;  is  but  a  name,  157;  loses 
its  meaning  when  it  is  made  vol- 
luntary,  158;  its  origin,  it  is  the 
punishment  of  the  sin  of  rebel- 
lion against  parents,  159. 

Solitaries,  Christians  induced  to  be  so 
by  evil  times,  78. 

Son  and  Spirit,  oneness  of  Their 
power,  2;  sons  of  God  we  be- 
come through  baptism,  4;  by 
the  Word,  35;  in  putting  on 
Christ,  29-30;  in  receiving  the 
Spirit,  30;  out  of  the  course  of 
nature,  as  Isaac,  33. 

Soul,  its  relation  to  the  Flesh  and 
Spirit,  42;  should  govern  the 
body,  yet  requires  the  guidance 
of  the  Spirit,  73;  the  death  of, 

134. 
Spirit,   Holy,   imparts  righteousness, 

37 ;  gift  of  not  by  Law,  but  faith, 
not  by  circumcision,  but  grace, 
47;  Christians  sealed  by  Him, 
56,  120;  the  earnest  of  our  in- 
heritance, 56,  166;  alone  reveals 
mysteries,  60;  and  the  true 
knowledge  of  God,  ib. ;  the  call- 
ing of  the  Gentiles,  80;  alone 
can  strengthen  against  trial,  81 ; 
His  indwelling  necessary  to  teach 
the  love  of  God,  82;  binds  the 
faithful  in  one  body,  96;  His 
gifts  manifold,  104 ;  »yet  have  all 
one  office  to  build  up  each  and 
all  in  one  faith,  105 ;  communi- 
cates life  from  the  Head  to  the 
whole  Church,  as  natural  life  is 
conveyed  through  the  body,  105- 
06;  how  grieved,  especially  by 
sins  of  the  tongue,  120;  by  bit- 
terness, 121;  His  grace  typified 
by  the  pillar  of  fire,  165;  the 
sword  of  the  Spirit,  169. 

Submission,  mutual,  is  mutual  ser- 
vice, 142. 

Suicide  worse,  and  punished  worse  by 
God  than  murder,  5. 

Sunworship,  110. 

Superstitions,  8,  79,  in. 

Synagogue,  the,  represented  by  Agar, 

34. 

Teachers,  degeneracy  of,  their  power- 

lcssness  to   convert   and  guide, 

77-78. 
Teachers  of  error,  to  be  cut  off,  their 

followers  to  be  spared,  38. 
Thanksgiving,  universally  a  duty  in 

Christians,  138-39. 
Theft,  an  instance  of  voluntary  sin, 

58. 

Times,  how  called  evil,  137. 
Tithes,  the  danger  of  omitting  them, 

69. 
Tongue,  its  proper  use,  119,  131 ;  and 

discipline,  1 21. 
Trisagion,  the  Hymn  so  called.    See 

Hymn. 


GALATIANS  AND  EPHESIANS:   INDEX  OF  SUBJECTS.  565 


Types,  in  the    Old   Testament,   ex- 
plained, 166. 

Unity  of  the  Spirit,  binds  all  together, 
97;  its  perfectness,  id, ;  promotes 
virtue,  97;  kept  by  love,  98; 
binds  in  one  body  the  faithful  of 
all  ages,  99;  meant  by  St.  Paul's 
expression,  "a  perfect  man," 
105;  unity  is  the  condition  of 
our  receiving  life  from  the  Spirit, 
106;  is  founded  on  the  Divine 
Unity,  146. 

Unpopularity   the   lot  of  Christians, 
46. 

Uzzah,  7. 

Valentinus,  heretic,  164. 

Vanity,  not  in  the  works  of  God  but 

those  of  man,  109. 
Vice,  against  nature,  58. 
Vigils,  of  the  Church,  170  (and  note). 


Virtue,  universal,  required  in  Chris- 
tians, 68,  125;  promotes  unity, 
97;  must  be  active,  126;  and 
positive,  127. 

Wall,  "  middle  wall  of  partition,"  ex- 
plained, 72. 
Water  with   the  Word   regenerates, 

35- 
Wealth,  ill-gotten  has  no  security,  58; 

desires  of  it  bounded  by  man's 

physical  frame,  ib. 
Will,  in  the  Almighty  precedent  and 

consequent  illustrated,  52. 
Will,  evil,  the  cause  of  evil,  5. 
Will,  unity  of,  between   Father  and 

Son,  4. 
Wisdom,  not  curious  but  submissive, 

141. 
Wives,  to  submit  themselves  to  their 

husbands  in  the  Lord,  143;  in 

what  their    excellence  consists, 


145 ;  not  to  be  chosen  for  beauty, 
id.;  nor  for  riches,  145,  151 ;  to 
reverence  their  husbands,  146; 
not  to  be  treated  as  slaves,  147; 
marry  for  richer  for  poorer,  149; 
to  be  formed  by  the  husband  and 
weaned  from  the  world,  149-50; 
and  treated  with  love  and  honor, 
152.     See  Women. 

Women,  their  self-denial  and  endur- 
ance, 1 15-16;  a  pattern  to  men, 
116;  their  faults  common  to  men, 
their  excellencies  their  own,  1 16; 
warned  against  clamor,  123;  es- 
pecially in  the  treatment  of  their 
slaves,  124;  leniency  of  laws 
towards  them,  124. 

Works,  good,  the  fruit  of  the  Spirit, 

42. 
World,  not  essentially  evil,  5. 
Wrath,  "  children  of,"  explained,  66 

(and  note). 


HOMILIES  ON  GALATIANS  AND  EPHESIANS 


INDEX  OF  TEXTS. 


PACK 

t 

PAGE 

PAGS 

Gen.  i.  27     ... 

•       143 

1  Sam.  i.  10.    .    .    . 

170 

Ps.  lxviii.  18,  Sept.    .     103 

i.  31     ... 

IO9 

i.  11,  Sept. 

170 

lxix.  17   ...    . 

66 

ii.  23,  24  .    . 

I46 

i.  13.     .     .     . 

170 

lxxx.  12  .     . 

71 

vi.  2     .     .     . 

•       135 

i.  16,  Sept. 

170 

lxxxiv.  2 .     . 

41 

•  vi.  12   .     .     . 

.       171 

i.  24 .     .     .     . 

154 

Ixxxviii.  28  . 

•75 

>,  note 

xii.  1     .     .     . 

.       I56 

ii.  21      .     .     . 

154 

xci.  2 .     .     . 

95 

xii.  4    .     .     . 

.          26 

ii.  25,  Sept.    . 

108 

ciii.  6,  7  .     , 

72 

xiv.  14.     .     . 

.       I48 

ii.  30     .     .     . 

56 

civ.  2.     .     . 

115 

xiv.  21-23 

.       I56 

x.  21,  Sept.  in 

civ.  15    .     . 

138 

xvi.  5    .     .     . 

.       149 

Or.  Hex.     . 

82 

cv.  18     .     . 

96 

xvi.  6   .     .     . 

.       149 

xx.  4 .     .     .     . 

41 

cvi.  24    . 

165 

xvi.  1  J.     .     . 
xvii.  8  .     .     . 

-      33 

2  Sam.  i.  26 .     .    .    . 

143 

cvi.  32    . 

83 

•      71 

vi.  6,  7  .     .    . 

7 

cviii.  1     . 

,     165 

xviii.  11    .     . 

.     147 

xv.  3-6 .     .     . 

122 

cix.  18     . 

115 

xviii.  12,  Sept. 

.     148 

1  Kings  xviii.  27    .     . 

no 

cix.  19     . 

.     168 

xviii.  14    .     . 

•      35 

2  Kings  vi.  8-12    .     . 

95 

cix.  21     . 

.      56 

xx.  17  .     .     . 

.    156 

vi.  13,  etc.     . 

95 

cxii.  9     . 

109 

xxi.  10.     .     . 

•      35 

vi.  16,  17.     . 

95 

cxix.  =  cxx.  Sept. 

xxii.  18     .     . 

.    148 

Job  i.  10,  11,  Sept.     . 

139 

164,  note 

xxiv.  1-67 

vii.  5,  Sept.     .     . 

171 

cxxx.  10  .     .     .  62,  note 

XXV.  21        .      .  1 

[56,  I71 

xi.  12,  Sept.    .     . 

141 

cxlvi.  4   ....     113 

xxvi.  4 .     .     . 

•      27 

xxxi.  33,  4  .     .     . 

IOI 

cxlvii.  20     .     . 

•      76 

xxxii.  1      .     . 

.    165 

xxxviii.  3     .     .     . 

165 

Prov.  iii.  3,  Sept.   . 

172 

xxxvii. .     .     . 

.      67 

Ps.  ii.  1 1 

131 

x.  9     ... 

.     123 

xlii.  38.     .     . 

.    104 

vi.  5 

172 

xii.  28,  Sept. 

.     128 

Ex.  iii.  8  .     .     .     . 

.      50 

vii.  15     .     .     .     . 

122 

xviii.  19,  Sept. 

■      97 

xii.  11... 

.    164 

x.  7 

105 

xxvi.  12    .     .     . 

n 

xvi.  18    .     .     . 

.     166 

x.  1 7  =  ix.  37,  Sept 

167 

xxvi.  27    .     .     . 

122 

xviii.  18,  Sept. 

.     171 

xii.  2 

117 

xxvii.  5,  6     .     . 

136 

xix.  13    .     .     . 

.      64 

xii.  3 

119 

xxviii.  1    .     .     , 

168 

xx.  Sept.      .     . 

•    153 

xiv.  1 

112 

xxviii.  23.     .     . 

136 

xx.  13,  14   .     . 

.     130 

xiv.  3-7  .     .     .     . 

104 

xxxi.  6,  Sept.     . 

138 

xxix.  9    .     .     I< 

>7,  note 

xvi.  2,  Sept. 

■     '39 

Eccles.  i.  2  .     .     .     . 

109 

xxxii.  32      •     . 

.      83 

xviii.  1     .     .     .     . 

60 

ii.  4-8  .     .     . 

109 

Lev.  xxiv.  20     .     . 

.     128 

xviii.  24  ...     , 

•      5' 

xii.  8     .     .     , 

109 

Num.  xiii.  23     •     . 

.     166 

xix.  5 .     .     .     . 

•      93 

Cant.  i.  3 

120 

xv.  32-36 

7 

xxiii.  7, 8     .     .     . 

80 

Isa.  i.  1    .     .     .  .  17c 

>,  note 

xvi.  I-35.     . 

.     107 

xxx 55 

;,  note 

i.  19 

•       50 

xxxi.  42-47  . 

.      44 

xxxiv.  7  .     .     .     , 

•      95 

ii.  6 

79 

xxxv.  1-8 

.      44 

xxxiv.  8  .     .     .     . 

•     134 

iv.  1  ...     17c 

>,  note 

Deut.  vii.  13     .     . 

.      50 

xxxvi.  1  .     .     .     , 

112 

v.  2   .     .     .     . 

■       72 

viii.  15     .     . 

.     165 

xxxviii.  5      .     . 

.     171 

v.  5    ....     . 

•       72 

xiv.  2  .     .     . 

•      5' 

xxxix.  6,  Sept.  . 

109 

v.  21 .     .     .     . 

n 

xviii.  15   .     . 

22 

xii 7c 

),  note 

viii.  18  .     .     . 

.     148 

xxvii.  26  .     . 

26,  27 

xlii.  1  .     .     .     . 

.       41 

viii.  20,  Sept.  . 

■       72 

xxviii.  4   .     . 

•      50 

xiv.  10,  II    .     . 

•     147 

xi.  5  .     .     .     i6j 

,,  note 

xxxii.  8,  9,  Scj 

)t.      80 

xiv.  II     .     .     . 

•       53 

xxvii.  1  .     .     . 

169 

Josh,  vii 

•       79 

Ii.  1     .     .     .     . 

.      66 

xliii.  26,  Sept. . 

IOI 

Jurig.  xii.  16      .     . 

.      41 

Ii.  4,  Sept.   .     . 

.     114 

xiv.  9     .     .     . 

27 

1  Sam.  i.  5    .     .     . 

170 

Iii.  =  li.  8,  Sept. 

172 

xlviii.  n      .     . 

.      56 

i.  6    .     .     . 

.     170 

liii.  6  .     .     .     . 

.     in 

xlix.  15  .     .     .2 

7.  *39 

i.  8    .     .     . 

.     170 

lv.  =  liv.  14,  Sept 

.     149 

Iii.  7  .     .     .     . 

.     168 

i.  9    .     .     . 

170 

lxiii.  1     .     .     . 

•       23 

liii.  9 

•         • 

•      27 

PACB 

Isa.  liv.  1 

•      34 

lix.  2 

72 

lix.  7 

99 

lix.  17    ...     . 

168 

Ix.  1  .     .     .     133 

,  note 

lxi.  10    .     .     .     . 

115 

Jer.  ii.  6 

1     l6l 

*  *  * 

xni.  1-9      .     .     , 

28 

1         xviii.  1-6    .     . 

28 

xxxviii.  4     .     .     . 

132 

Ezek.  i.  27    .     .     . 

■     *<>$ 

ii.  2    .     .     .19 

>,  note 

iii.  19-21 

.     10S 

ix.  n,  Sept. 

■     l65 

xiii.  19     .     . 

132 

xviii.  4    .     . 

■     134 

Dan.  ii.  47    .     .     . 

.      93 

iii.  1-30   .     . 

.      92 

iii.  26  .     .     . 

•      93 

iii.  28  .     .     . 

•      93 

iv.  2,  3      .     . 

•      93 

Hos.  ii.  5      ... 

27 

vi.  5,  Sept.    . 

81 

Joel   ii.  28    .     .     . 

•      56 

Jonah  iii.  4,  Sept.  . 

IOI 

iii.  10     .     . 

102 

Hab.  ii.  4     .     .     .     . 

26 

Mai.  ii.  7      .     .     .     . 

8 

Wisd.  i.  4     .     .     .     . 

123 

xiv.  15    .     .     . 

'35 

Ecclus.  ii.  4 .     .     .     . 

.     '39 

v.  6  .     .     .     . 

69 

xi.  3      .     .     . 

"45 

xiii.  15 .     .     . 

57 

xxii.  21,  22 

.      98 

XXV.  1    .      .      . 

143 

xxxii.  10    .     . 

«3» 

xl.  23    .     .     . 

143 

Matt.  i.  21    .     .     .     . 

.  4,80 

•  ■  • 

m.  3    .     .     . 

.     168 

•  •  • 

111.  7    .     .     . 

.     165 

iv.  18  et  seq. 

2 

iv.  23  .     .     . 

.      84 

v.  3     .     .     . 

51.96 

v.  6     .     .     . 

.     167 

v.  8     .     .     . 

51 

v.  10  .     .     . 

.      7» 

V.  II     .       .       . 

51.86 

V.   12    .       .       . 

51.7° 

v.  19   .      .      . 

•      71 

v.  20   .      .      . 

.     "4 

v.  22,  24^  68,  7 

2,  121 

v.  39  .     .     .  1  : 

58,158 

GALATIANS  AND   EPHESIANS:   INDEX 

OF 

TEXTS. 

567 

PAGE 

PAGE 

PACE 

PAGE 

Matt.  v.  45  .     .     . 

84.  129 

Luke  xvi.  19     .    . 

46 

Acts  xv.  2    ...     . 

12 

Rom.  xi.  19  .     .     . 

.'          84 

v.  46  .     .     . 

■       83 

xvi.  23     .     . 

.        172 

xv.  2,  22   .    .12 

t,  note 

xi.  24 .     .     . 

vi.  7    .     .     . 

.     168 

xvi.  29,  31    . 

,    .        8 

xvi.  16,  17     .    . 

99 

xi.  33>-- 

55,  67 

vi.  14,  15      • 

.     129 

xviii.  1-7 

.     169 

xvi.  18 .    .    .    . 

161 

xii.  5  .     .     . 

102 

vi.  19 .     .     . 

.     166 

xviii.  19  . 

.  82,  note 

xvi.  25-25     .    , 

86 

xii.  16     .     . 

11 

vi.  23  .    .     . 

24,  77 

xix.  22     .     . 

.    .      88 

xvi.  25 ...    , 

88 

xiii.  2 .     .     . 

.     144 

vi.  24 .    .     . 

•     133 

xxiii.  34  .     . 

,    .      84 

xvi.  26.    .    .    , 

86 

xiii.  7 .     .     . 

•    •     137 

vi.  33-    •     ■ 

.     152 

John  i.  1      .     .     , 

•    •        3 

xvi.  28.    .    .    « 

87 

xiii.  10    .     . 

.      98 

vi.  34  •     • 

137, 166 

i.  3     •    •     • 

.      80 

xvi.  29 .     .     .     . 

86 

xv.      .     .     . 

.      18 

vii.  1,  3   .     . 

•     133 

i.  14    .     . 

.  61,  note 

xvi.  29-33     •    • 

89 

xv.  9  .     .     . 

.    .      71 

vii.  2  .    125, 

128, 159 

•  • 

11 

80,  note 

xvi.  30 .     .     .     . 

92 

xv.  18      .     . 

•      77 

vii.  9,  1 1 .     . 

•     "39 

ii.  19  .     . 

•     •        3 

xviii.  9,  10     .    . 

95 

xv.  20 

•       13 

vii.  22,  23     . 

172 

iii.  13.     . 

.     .     103 

xviii.  18     .     .    . 

77 

xv.  25-27 

18,  20 

vii.  24,  25    . 

50 

iii.  16.     . 

.     .4,23 

XX.  22  .     .     .     . 

91 

xvi.     .     .     , 

.    .     161 

ix.  3-6     .     . 

.      88 

iii.  20.     . 

.     .     112 

xx.  28  .     .     . 

3.  i°4 

xvi.  20     .     , 

, 100, 162 

ix.  n  .    .     . 

•     139 

iii.  35-     •    • 

.     .     103 

xx.  31   .     .     .3 

3,  130 

xvi.  22     .     . 

46 

x.  5     .     .     . 

55,84 

iv.  27  .     . 

.     .         1 

xxi.  13 .     .     .     . 

9" 

xvi.  25     .     . 

•    •        7 

x.  16,  37  .     . 

•     137 

v.  19,  27,  et< 

«   .        3 

xxi.  20  et  seq. 

«3,  15 

1  Cor.  i.  4    .     . 

■    •      59 

x.  19  .     .     . 

.     168 

v.  39  .    . 

.     .      76 

xxi.  24-26     .     , 

77 

i.  25  .     . 

.    .      60 

x.  32,  33  • 

•      5i 

v.  46  .     . 

•    76»  99 

xxi.  29 .     .     •    , 

.      38 

ii.  14      .     . 

60.  73 

x.  38  .     .    . 

•      77 

vii.  7  .     . 

.     .     160 

xxii.  21      .    . 

76,77 

iii.  2  .     .    . 

76,  95 

xi.  2,  3     .     . 

•      94 

vii.  12 

.     .      84 

xxiii.  11     .    .     . 

•      95 

iii.  3,  margi 

n  .      97 

xii.  36     .     . 

.     119 

viii.  35     . 

•    •      75 

xxiv.  25     .    .     . 

9* 

iii.  6  . 

.    .     107 

xiii.  3 .     . 

119,  note 

viii.  44     . 

.    .      41 

xxvi.  28     .     .     . 

.      9i 

iii.  6,  8  .     . 

.    .     104 

xiii.  56    .     . 

.       84 

viii.  56    . 

.    .      99 

xxvi.  29     •    .     . 

.      94 

iii.  10,  11    . 

.    .      76 

xv.  16      .     . 

1 

X.  II    .      . 

•    •      77 

xxvii 

9" 

iii.  11      .     , 

-    •      75 

xv.  24 

•      55 

x.  18  .     . 

•    •        3 

xxviii.  20  .     .     . 

.      91 

iii.  18     .     . 

.    .    123 

xv.  27      .     . 

.    170 

x.  20  .     .     , 

.     .      84 

Rom.  i.  1      .     .     .     . 

93 

iv.  3  .     .     , 

•    •        9 

xvi.  16     .     . 

.      18 

xi.  11  .     . 

.    .     166 

i.  9      .     .     .     . 

59 

iv.  4  .     .     . 

,    .     162 

xvi.  17 

1,  160 

xi.  43  •     • 

.    .      61 

i.  9     .     .     .5$ 

>,  note 

iv.  7  .     .     . 

96 

xvi.  22     .     . 

,    .      18 

xii.  26     .     . 

.    .      67 

i.  20    .     .     .     . 

41 

iv.  10     .    . 

.     150 

xvi.  23     .    . 

1 

xiii.  3 .     . 

.    .     103 

i.  25    .     .     .     . 

135 

iv.  21      . 

.    .        1 

xvii.  4      .     . 

.      18 

xiv.  6  .     . 

.    .      76 

i.  28    .     .     .     . 

112 

v.  I    .     . 

.    .     13° 

xvii.  20    .     . 

.     167 

xiv.  14     .     . 

'    *      lS 

i.  30    .     .     .     . 

■       58 

v.  7    .     . 

.    .     165 

xviii.  12  .     . 

•      23 

xiv.  23     .     . 

.    5°»  81 

ii.  4     .     .     . 

■       69 

vi  9  .    .    , 

.    .      65 

xviii.  20  •     . 

.      89 

xiv.  27     . 

■    •      75 

ii.  25  .     .     .     . 

17 

vi.  17     . 

.  146, 147 

xviii.  32  .     . 

•     *59 

XV.  1    .      . 

•    •      76 

iii.  3, 4    .     .     . 

23 

vii.  4 

.    .     152 

xix.  4  .     .     . 

•     143 

xvi.  15     . 

6,  103 

iii.  4   .     .     .82 

i,  note 

vii.  5      . 

.    15. '50 

xix.  25     .     . 

.      67 

xvi.  20 

.     .     130 

iii.  23       .     . 

22 

vii.  7 

'    *      52 

xix.  28     .     . 

.      85 

xvi.  28     . 

•  103, 147 

iv.  15.     .     .     . 

72 

vii.  11     .     . 

.    .      78 

XX.  21         .      . 

.      85 

xvi.  33     . 

.     .      50 

v.  1     .     .     167 

,  note 

vii.  15     . 

.    •     *47 

xx.  23       .     . 

.      67 

xvii.  1 

.    .      85 

v.  7,8      .     .     . 

'45 

vii.  26    .     . 

.    •     156 

xxi.  12,  13    . 

78,  note 

xvii.  1,4  . 

.    .       n 

v.  II   .     .     .     . 

52 

ix.  11      .     . 

.     •       44 

xxii.  13    .     . 

96 

xvii.  5      .     , 

.    .      85 

V.   12    .       .      .       . 

171 

ix.  14 

•     •       45 

xxii.  30    .     . 

.     166 

xvii.  10    . 

■     •  7*  54 

vi.  6    .     .     . 

22 

ix.  16 

.     .     103 

xxii.  32    .     . 

•     133 

xvii.  II,  15 

•    •        5 

vi.  4»  13  •     • 

167 

ix.  20 

•    •      77 

xxiii.  2,  3 

8 

xvii.  16    . 

.    .     160 

vi.  21       .     . 

"32 

ix.  26 

.    .       14 

xxiii.  37  .     . 

61 

xvii.  24    . 

•      51 

vii.  3  .     .     . 

.     148 

ix.  27     .     . 

.    .     162 

xxiv.  12   .     . 

83.  97 

xviii.  24  .     . 

.    .      94 

vii.  22,  23    . 

.     114 

x.  12.     . 

.    .     163 

xxiv.  42,  43 . 

.     166 

xix.  25     . 

•    •      13 

viii.  2  .     .     . 

21 

x.  17.     . 

.    .     102 

XXV.   I          .       . 

46 

xxi.  7  .     .     , 

.    .      18 

viii.  3  .     .     . 

26 

x.  19.     . 

.    .      71 

xxv.  3,  8 .    . 

44,  172 

Acts  i.  8  .     .     . 

.    .      56 

viii.  6  .     .     . 

■       73 

xi.  5,  15 

.  63,  124 

xxv.  34    .     . 
xxv.  41     .     . 

51,  126 
172 

ii.  14,  36  . 
ii.  37    .     . 

.    .      18 
•     •      93 

viii.  7  .     .     . 
viii.  8, 9  .    .    . 

5 
.      4» 

xi.  3  .     . 
xii.  18    . 

.    .     146 
.  103, 141 

xxvii.  2    .     . 

94 

11.46,47  .     . 

.     123 

viii.  18     .     . 

.     169 

xii.  28    . 

.    .        2 

xxvii.  56  .     . 

13 

iv.  32    .     . 

.     .     146 

viii.  28,  30    . 

•      55 

xiii.  9,  12 

.    .     105 

xxvii.  63  .     . 

84 

v.  15  .  .     .     . 

4 

viii.  31     .     . 

,     167 

xiii.  11    . 

.  105, 131 

xxviii.  19 

68,  145 

v.  22,  23  . 

.     .       90 

viii.  32     .     .   2 

3»    5° 

xiv.  1 

.    .      98 

xxviii.  20 

82,95 

v.  41     .     . 

.     .       85 

viii.  3c     .     .   7 

7,  161 

xiv.  35    . 

.    .     148 

Mark  iv.  2-4     .     . 

7 

vi.  13    •     • 

.     .       38 

viii.  38     .     . 

161 

xv.  8,  9  .  1 

2, 80, 106 

iv.  3    .     .     . 

19,  note 

vii.  24,  27 

■     •       83 

viii.  38,39    .   8 

7»  l67 

XV.  10     . 

.    .  2,  96 

iv.  25-30 

.     169 

ix.  15    .     .     . 

.     10,  76 

ix.  3    .     .     . 

■      83 

xv.  31     . 

.  58,  note 

ix.  48 .     .     . 

■     172 

ix.  22  et  seq. 

.     .       12 

ix.  21  .     .     . 

28 

xv.  31     . 

•    •      77 

xv.  40       .      . 

13 

ix.  40   .     . 

.     .       60 

ix.  28 .     .     . 

•      54 

xv.  32     . 

.    .     109 

Luke  iv.  18  .     .     . 

•       92 

A*          •         •          • 

.     .       21 

x.  1,  2 

■      84 

xv.  52     . 

.    .      61 

x.  13   .     . 

.       98 

x.  47     .     . 

•      77 

x.  2     .     .    . 

10 

xv.  53    . 

.    .     172 

x.  19    .     .      . 

161 

xii.  5     .     . 

.     .     167 

x.  6     .     .     . 

•      72 

xvi.  1-3 . 

.    .       18 

X.  22    .      .      . 

11 

xii.  6    .     . 

.     .       86 

x.  8     .     .     . 

.      72 

xvi.  13    . 

.    .     163 

xi.  5-8     .     . 

169 

xii.  7,  8-10 

.     .       89 

29,  72 

xvi.  23,  25 

.    .      85 

xii.  35      .     . 

164 

xii.  18,  19 

.     .       90 

x.  9     .     .     . 

•      72 

2  Cor.  i.  3    .     . 

•    •      59 

xiv.  i(j  et  seq. 

23 

xiii.  2   .     . 

■     •        3 

x.  14  .     .     . 

.      67 

i.  22  .    . 

.    .     166 

xiv.  26     .     . 

144 

xiii.  46 

'     *       55 

x.  15    .      .     . 

•      4i 

i.  24  .     . 

.    .     107 

xv.  7    .     .     . 

89 

xiv.  19  .     .     , 

86 

x.  17   .      .     . 

.      41 

ii.  4   .     . 

.    .     130 

.8 


GALATIANS   AND   EPHESIANS :   INDEX   OF  TEXTS. 


PAGE 

PAGB 

1 

PAGE  !                                                                ■            MC 

Cor.  ii.  1 1 .     . 

.       .        I6l 

Gal.  iv.  19    .     . 

.       .              I 

Phil.  ii.  6     .     .    . 

3 

1  Tim.  v.  20      ... 

ii.  14.     .    . 

,       .           41 

iv.  20    .     . 

.       .            2 

•  • 

11.  7      .     .    . 

.      85 

v.  23 

1 

ii.  31 .     .     . 

'       '           5f 

iv.  26    .     . 

.      .       165 

ii.  7,  8.     .     . 
ii.  8,  9 .     .     . 

.      84 

vi.  9  .     . 

116, 

iv.  5  .     . 

.       .        I58 

v.  2,  4  .     . 

.     IO7,  25 

104 

vi.  16     . 

82,  ^K~    1 

iv.  16     . 

.        114 

v.  10     .     , 

.     .        6 

ii.  9      .     :     . 

.      85 

2  Tim.  ii.  12 

v.  4   .     . 
v.  12.     . 

.        .        I30 

•     •        9 

vi.  9      .     . 
vi.  17    .     . 

.     .     166 
1,  86,  91 

•  •  • 

111.  4     .     .     . 
iii.  14  .     .     . 

•  59 

•  l3* 

ii.  25,  2i 
111.  8.     . 

v.  17.     . 

.     .       16 

Eph.  i.  3  .     .     . 

.     .     160 

■  *  • 

111.  19  .     .     . 

•   m 

iv.  2. 

vi.  3  .     . 

•    •      77 

L13     .     . 

120,  note 

iii.  20  .     .     . 

S*>  "»» 

iv.  7 . 

vi.  4,  5  .     , 

-    •      77 

i.  19     .     . 

.     .      66 

165,  166 

iv.  8. 

vi.  12     .     . 

•      97 

ii.  6      .     . 

49, 96, 102 

iv.  1      .     .     . 

.   163 

Tit  i.  6   . 

vi.  14     . 

.    .     131 

ii.  8      .     . 

.     .       26 

iv.  6     .     .     . 

.   138 

i.  16.     . 

vii.  10    .     , 

,    .     170 

ii.  15    .     . 

•    •      75 

Col.   i.  3  .     .     .     . 

•    59 

ii.  7  .     . 

.  viii.  21    .     . 

•      77 

ii.  16,  18  . 

.    .     102 

i-  15     •     75. 

and  note 

ii.  14     . 

x.  1    .     .     . 

.       19 

•  •  • 

111.  5     .     . 

.    .      49 

i.  16     .     .     . 

75»  l6° 

•  •  • 

111.  3  . 

x.  5    .     . 

.    .     169 

iii.  10  .     . 

.    .      49 

i.  21     .     .     . 

96 

iii.  IO    . 

x.  7    .     . 

.    .       19 

•  *• 

ui.  15  .    , 

.    .      82 

i.  24     .     .     . 

41,  86 

Philem.  9     . 

xi.  3  .     19, 

162,  171 

iii.  20  . 

.    .    .     162 

ii.  19    .     . 

.    .     106 

10 

xi.  14*  *5 

.    .     161 

iv.  1     .     , 

,    .    .      96 

iii.  1     .     .     . 

•      63 

Heb.  i.  1 .     . 

xi.  23      . 

9 

iv.  19  .     . 

.    .     112 

•  •  • 

111.  3     .     .     . 

.    63,  78 

>•  3- 

xi.  29 

.     •     13° 

v.  2 

•     •      99 

iii.  5     .     . 

.     .      22 

i.  14 

54,         -no 

xi.  32     .     . 

.     .       12 

v.  4      . 

.    .     .     119 

iii.  8     .     . 

.     119 

ii.  16 

c 

xii  2.     .     . 

.       85 

v.  8      . 

.    .  144, 160 

iii.  18,  24. 

.     144 

iii.  5,  t 

5 

xii.  4.     . 

.    .      85 

v.  15     . 

.    .    .     168 

iv.  6     .     . 

•      77 

iv.  10 

161 

xiL  9.     .     . 

•    9h  95 

V.  21 

.    .     157 

iv.  8,  9     . 

168,  note 

iv.  12. 

16S 

xii.  11,  13  . 

•       77 

V.  21,  31    . 

.     .     147 

1  Thess.  i.  2 .     . 

•     .      59 

V.   II 

76 

xii.  20    .     . 

.     119 

V.  22     .      , 

.  5°»  '48 

"•  3»  5 

•    •      77 

v.  14 

105 

si.  i.  1  .    .    .     . 

2 

v.  23,  31 

.    .    .     147 

ii.  14  . 

:  .,8- 1! 

vi.  18 

56 

i.  4  .    .     .    4 

1,66, 160 

v.  27     . 

.    .    .      64 

•  •  • 

111.  3    . 

ix.  17  . 

27 

i.  6  .     .    .     . 

*3»  33 

vi.  1,5 

.    .    .      50 

iii.  8    . 

.    .     84 

x.  27 

57 

i.  10      .     .     . 

.     158 

vi.  8     . 

.    .    .     148 

iv.  8    . 

.    .    109 

x.  29 

'32 

i.  12      .     .     . 

.       76 

vi.  12  . 

.     .    41,  66 

.    .    120 

x.  34 

•      ;* 

i.  13      •    •     . 

106 

vi.  13  . 

.     .  163,  166 

iv.  15  . 

.    .     61 

x-  34 

iS 

i.  16      .     .    . 

.     160 

vi.  19   . 

.     .     .      49 

v.  17   . 

.    .    169 

xi.  6 

169 

i.  20 

.  58,  note 

vi.  20  . 

•      91 

2  Thess.  i.  6 .     . 

.    .    113 

xi.  14 

•     75 

ii.  5,  7  .     . 

.     ..     15 

Phil.  L  13,  14 

91 

•  • 

11.7     . 

.    .    161 

xiii.  3 

-     95 

ii.  9  .     .     . 

.    .     101 

i.  20 

167 

1  Tim.  i.  3    .    . 

•     •      49 

Jas.  i.  6    . 

105,  note 

•  ■  • 

111.  1      .     . 

•    -i»37 

i.  22     . 

5 

i.  13.     . 

.     24,  80 

1  Pet.  ii.  22 

.    27.  63 

•  •  • 

111.  4 

.    .  6,  76 

1           i.  23,  24,  i 

89- 

86 

i.  16.     . 

.     .       10 

v.  8 

.    .     fjo 

iii.  28    .     . 

•    .     143 

!           i.  27     . 

,     168 

iv.  3  .     . 

147,  note 

Rev.  xv.  6 

■    •     '65 

iv.  6      .     . 

.    .      50 

i.  29 

78 

v.  13      . 

.     .     142 

xx.  9 

.    .    165 

iv.  11     .     . 

.    .       19 

11.  5,  6 . 

.      99 

v.  14      . 

.     .       52 

1           xxii.  i( 

• 

70 

GALATIANS   AND   EPHESIANS:  INDEX   OF  TEXTS. 


567 


PACE 

PAGE 

Matt.  v.  45  .    . 

.   84,  129 

Luke  xvi  19     . 

.     .       46 

v.  46  .     . 

•     •       83 

xvi.  23     . 

.     .     172 

vi.  7    .     . 

.     .     168 

xvi.  29,  31 

.     .        8 

vi.  14,  15 

.     .     129 

xviii.  1-7 

.     .     169 

vi.  19  .     . 

.     .     166 

xviii.  19  . 

.  82,  note 

vi.  23  .     . 

•     24,  77 

xix.  22     . 

.     .      88 

vi.  24  .    . 

•     •     133 

xxiii.  34  . 

.    .      84 

vi-33-     • 

.     .     152 

John  i.  1      .    . 

•    •        3 

vi.  34-     • 

.  137,  166 

i.  3     •     • 

.    .      80 

vii.  1,  3   . 

■     •     "33 

i.  14    .     . 

.  61,  note 

vii.  2  .    125 

,  128,  159 

•  • 

11.  .     .     . 

.  80,  note 

vii.  9,  1 1  . 

•     •     139 

ii.  19  .     . 

•    .        3 

vii.  22,  23 

.     .     172 

Hi.  13.     . 

.    .     103 

vii.  24,  25 

.     .       50 

Hi.  16 .     . 

•    -4,23 

ix.  3-6     . 

.     .       88 

Hi.  20.    . 

.     .     112 

ix.  11  .     . 

•     •     139 

in.  35 .     . 

.    .     103 

x.  5     .     . 

•     55>»4 

iv.  27  .     . 

.    .        1 

x.  16,  37 . 

•    •     >37 

v.  19,  27,  et< 

c   .        3 

x.  19   .     . 

.     .     168 

v.  39  •     - 

.    .      76 

x.  32,  33  • 

.    .      51 

v.  46  .     . 

•     76,  99 

x.  38  .     . 

•    •      77 

vii.  7  .     . 

.     .     160 

xi.  2,  3     . 

.    .      94 

vii.  12 

.     .      84 

xii.  36     .     . 

119 

viii.  35     • 

•    •      75 

xiii.  3 .     . 

119.  note 

viii.  44    . 

.    .      41 

xiii.  56    . 

.     •      84 

viii.  56    . 

.    .      99 

xv.  16 

.     .         1 

X.  II    .      . 

•    •      77 

xv.  24 

•    .      55 

x.  18  .     . 

•    •        3 

xv.  27 

■    .    170 

x.  20   .     . 

.    .      84 

xvi  16     . 

.    .      18 

xi.  11  .     . 

.    .     166 

xvi.  17 

1,  160 

xi.  43  .     . 

.    .      61 

xvi.  22     . 

.    .      18 

xii.  26 

.    .      67 

xvi.  23 

.    .        1 

xiii.  3 .     . 

.    .     103 

xvii.  4      .     , 

,    .      18 

xiv.  6  .     . 

.    .      76 

xvii.  20    .     , 

.    .    167 

xiv.  14     . 

'    *      Is 

xviii.  12  .     . 

-    •      23 

xiv.  23     .     , 

,    50,  81 

xviii.  20  .    . 

.    .      89 

xiv.  27     . 

'    *      7? 

xviii.  32  .     . 

•    159 

xv.  1   .     . 

•    •      76 

xix.  4  .     .     . 

•    H3 

xvi.  15     .     . 

6,  103 

xix.  25     .     . 

.      67 

xvi.  20     .     . 

.     130 

xix.  28     .     . 

.      85 

xvi.  28     . 

103, 147 

XX.  21        .      . 

.      85 

xvi.  ^     .     . 

.       50 

xx.  23       .      . 

.      67 

xvii.  1 

.     .       85 

xxi.  12,  13    . 

78,  note 

xvii.  1,4  .     , 

11 

xxii.  13    .     . 

.       96 

xvii.  5      .     . 

.       85 

xxii.  30    .     . 

.     166 

xvii.  10    .     . 

•  7»54 

xxii.  32    .     . 

•     133 

xvii.  ii,  15  . 

5 

xxiii.  2,  3 

8 

xvii.  16    .     . 

.     160 

xxiii.  37  .     . 

.      61 

xvii.  24    .     . 

•      51 

xxiv.  12   .     . 

83.  97 

xviii.  24  .     . 

.      94 

xxiv.  42,  43 . 

.     166 

xix.  25     .     . 

13 

XXV.  1        .      . 

46 

xxi.  7  .     .     . 

.      18 

xxv.  3,  8  .     . 

44,  172 

Acts  i.  8  .     .     .     . 

•      56 

xxv.  34    .     . 

51,  126 

ii.  14,  36  .     . 

.      18 

xxv.  41     .     . 

172 

H.  37    •     •     ■ 

•      93 

xxvii.  2    .     . 

94 

11.  46,  47  .     . 

•     I23 

xxvii.  56  .     . 

13 

iv.  32    .     .     . 

.     146 

xxvii.  63  .     . 

84 

v.  15  .  .     .     . 

4 

xxviii.  19 

68,  145 

v.  22,  23   .     . 

.      90 

xxviii.  20 

82,95 

v.  41     .     .     . 

.       85 

^fark  iv.  2-4     .     . 

7 

vi.  13    .     .     . 

•       38 

iv.  3    .     .     . 

19,  note 

vii.  24,  27 

.      83 

iv.  25-30 

.     169 

ix.  15    .     .     . 

10,  76 

ix.  48  .     .     . 

.   172 

ix.  22  et  seq.  . 

12 

xv.  40      .     . 

13 

ix.  40   .     .     . 

.      60 

Luke  iv.  18  .     .     . 

.    92 

A»             •            •            •           « 

21 

x.  13   .     .     . 

.    98 

x.  47      .      .      . 

•      77 

x.  19    .      .      . 

161 

xii.  5    .     .     . 

.     167 

X.  22    .      .      . 

II 

xii.  6    .     .     . 

.       86 

xi.  5-8     .     . 

169 

xii.  7,  8-10    . 

.       89 

xii.  35      .     . 

164 

xii.  18,  19 

.      90 

xiv.  1  <j  etseq. 

23 

xiii.  2   .     .     . 

3 

xiv.  26     .     . 

144 

xiii.  46      .     . 

'      55 

xv.  7    .     .     . 

89 1 

xiv.  19  .     .     . 

.      86 

Acts  xv.  2     . 

XV.  2,  22 

xvi.  16,  17 
xvi  18. 
xvi.  25-25 
xvi.  25 . 
xvi.  26. 
xvi.  28. 
xvi.  29 . 

xvi  29-33 
xvi.  30. 

xviii.  9,  10 

xviii.  18 

XX.  22    . 

XX.  28   . 
xx.  31   . 
xxi.  13 . 
xxi.  20  et  seq, 
xxi.  24-26 
xxi.  29 . 
xxii.  21 
xxiii.  II 
xxiv.  2£ 
xxvi.  28 
xxvi.  29 
xxvii.    . 
xxviii.  20 
Rom.  i.  1 

i.  9      . 

i.  9      . 

i.  20    . 

i.  25    . 

i.  28    . 

i.  30  • 
ii.  4  . 
ii.  25  . 

"'•  3»  4 

•  •  • 

111.  4    . 
iii.  23 
iv.  15. 
v.  1     . 

v.  7»  8 
v.  11   . 

V.   12    . 

vi.  6    . 

vi.  4,  13 
vi.  21 

vii.  3  . 
vii.  22,  23 
viii.  2  . 
viii.  3  . 
viii.  6  . 
viii.  7  . 
viii.  8, 9 

•  •  •  A 

viu.  18 
viii.  28, 30 
viii.  31 
viii.  32 

viii  3g 
viii.  38 
viii.  ^St  39 
ix.  3  . 
ix.  21  . 
ix.  28 . 
x.  1,  2 
x.  2  . 
x.  6  . 
x.  7  . 
x.  8  . 
x.  9  . 
x.  14  . 
x.  15  . 
x.  17   . 


3> 
33. 


»3> 


PAGE 

12 

12,  note 

99 
161 

86 

88 

86 

87 
86 

89 
92 

95 

77 

9* 
104 

130 

9i 
15 

77 
38 

76,77 
95 
9i 
9i 
94 
9" 
91 
93 

59 
58,  note 

41 

'35 
112 

58 

69 

17 

23 
82,  note 

22 

72 
note 

"45 
52 

"7' 
22 

167 

"32 

148 

114 

21 

26 

73 

:> 

41 

169 

55 
167 

23,    5° 
77,  161 

.    161 
87,  167 

^3 
28 

54 

84 
10 

72 
72 
72 
72 
67 
41 
41 


67 


29, 


Rom.  xi.  19 . 
xi.  24. 

xi-  33  • 
xii.  5  . 
xii.  16 
xiii.  2 . 

•  •  • 

xni.  7 . 
xiii.  10 
xv. 

xv.  9  . 
xv.  18 
xv.  20 
xv.  25-27 
xvi. 
xvi.  20 
xvi.  22 
xvi.  25 
1  Cor.  i.  4     . 

i.  25  . 

ii.  14 

•  •  ■ 

111.  2  . 

iii.  3,  margin 

iii.  6  . 

iii.  6,  8 

iii.  10,  1 

iii.  11 

iii.  18 

iv.  3  . 

iv.  4  . 

iv.  7  . 

iv.  10 

iv.  21 

v.  1    . 

v.7    . 

vi.  9  . 

vi.  17 

vii.  4 

vii  5 

vn.  7 

vii  11 

vii  15 

vii.  26 


2  Cor. 


ix.  11 
ix.  14 
ix.  16 
ix.  20 
ix.  26 
ix.  27 
x.  12 . 
x.  17. 
x.  19. 

xi.  5,  15 
xi.  3  . 
xii.  18 
xii  28 
xiii.  9,  1: 
xiii  II 
xiv.  1 

xiv.  35 
xv.  8,9 
xv.  10 
xv.  31 
xv.  31 
xv.  32 
xv.  52 
xv.  53 
xvi.  1-3 
xvi.  13 
xvi.  23,  25 

i-3  • 
i.  22  . 

i.  24  . 

11.4  . 


PAGE 

•  75 
.   84 

55,  67 

102 

11 

.  144 

•  <37 
.   98 

.   18 

•  7" 

•  77 

'3 
18,  20 

.  161 

100, 162 

46 

7 

•  59 
60 

6o»  73 

76,  95 

97 


107 

104 

.   76 

•  75 
.  123 

9 
.  162 

.   96 

.  150 

1 

.  130 
.  165 

'a  65 
146,  147 

.  152 

15,  150 

•  52 

-   78 
.  147 

156 

•  44 

•  45 
.  103 

•  77 
14 

162 

.  163 

.  102 

•  7i 
63,  124 

146 


103, 


105, 


141 

2 
105 

"3« 

98 

148 

2, 80, 106 

.  2,96 

58,  note 

•  77 
.  109 

.  61 

.  172 

.  18 

.  163 

.  85 

•  59 
.  166 

.  107 
.  130 


570    HOMILIES  ON  PHILIPPIANS,  COLOSSIANS,  THESSALONIANS. 


Antioch,  monks  near,  394  (note  2). 

Apollinarius,  of  Laodicea,  206 ;  his 
followers  denied  that  our  Lord 
took  a  soul,  214. 

Apostasy.     See  Antichrist. 

Apostles,  The,  examples  how  we 
should  meet  pride  arising  from 
qur  wisdom,  205;  a  type,  and 
their  life-giving  laws,  240;  taught 
and  then  left  those  they  had 
taught  to  teach  in  their  place, 
301  ;  their  ignorance  no  hin- 
drance to  the  spread  of  the 
Preaching,  307 ;  rejoiced  in  suf- 
fering, 325 ;  chosen  as  unworldly, 
329 ;  at  first  curious  about  the 
time  of  Consummation,  360;  not 
so  afterwards,  id. ;  not  informed, 
id. ;  St.  Peter  chief  of,  id. 

Appearing,  not  said  of  the  Father, 
but  of  the  Son,  207. 

Archippus,  probably  held  some  office 
in  the  Church  at  Colossie,  257, 
314;  a  person  to  whom  St.  Paul 
would  have  the  Colossians  en- 
tirely subject,  315. 

Archangel,  355-56. 

Arians,  like  Creeks  in  making  a 
greater  and  a  lesser  Cod,  207. 

Aristarchus,  was  brought  up  from 
Jerusalem  fellow-prisoner  with 
St.  Paul,  310. 

Arius  of  Alexandria,  206;  how  his 
heresy  falls  before  St.  Paul's  text, 
207. 

Ark,  one  hundred  years  building,  357; 
resting-place  of,  id. 

Armor,  spiritual,  363. 

Army,  the  Church  like  an,  367. 

Article,  the,  often  not  placed,  and 
yet  the  word  (#W  means  The 
Father,  209. 

Artisans,  oppress  their  poorer  fellows, 

370- 
Arts,  knowledge  of,  should  not  make 

men  proud,  217;   to  be  used  in 

Cod's    service    in    serving    one 

another,  not   to   withdraw  men 

from  spiritual  things,  233. 

Ascalon,  country  beyond,  357;  men 

of,  conquered  by  Samuel's  prayer, 

39". 
Assyrians,  king  of,  conquered  by  Hez- 

ekiah's  prayer,  391. 

Atoms,  notion  of,  353. 

Avarice,  souls  sacrificed  to,  346 ; 
wickedness  of,  368;  vain  excuses 
for,  answered,  368-69 ;  its  bad 
effects,  210;  consists  in  loving 
money  at  all,  21 1;  hinders  from 
seeing  Christ's  face,  id. ;  is  a  root 
of  evils,  id. :  hinders  from  being 
Christ's  servant,  id. 

Audacity,  examples  of,  205 ;  is  shown 
in  causeless  rage,  206. 

Baptism,  called  a  seal,  197;  men  freed 
from  sin  by,  and  have  the  Holy 
Ghost  given  them,  237;  men  are 
delivered,  as  it  were,  from  a  fever 
and  whollv  diseased  state  by  it, 
ir. :  it  gives  remission  of  sin, 
grace,  and  wealth,  23$;  prodigal 
son  an  example  for  those   that 


have  sinned  after  baptism,  id. ;  is 
through  the  cross,  242;  the  way 
prepared  for  it  by  the  things  done 
of  old  in  water,  283;  is  a  circum- 
cision of  spirit,  285;  not  burial 
only,  but  resurrection,  id. ;  a  death 
unto  sin,  286;  prefigured  in  Red 
Sea,  290;  its  destroying  and  new- 
making  effects  no  cause  for  mar- 
vel from  what  goes  on  in  nature, 
290;  called  sleep  by  heretics, 
352;  too  often  deferred,  361;  St. 
Greg.  Naz.  on  this  practice,  361 
(note  3) ;  priest  has  one  with 
people,  392. 

Beasts,  wild,  do  not  hurt  unless  strait- 
ened, 368;  man  inferior  to  in 
bodily  qualities,  379. 

Beauty,  no  cause  for  being  proud,  217. 

Bee,  lesson  from,  in  that  it  dies  in 
stinging,  368;  commended  in 
Scripture,  id. 

Beggars,  adjure  by  Christ  in  vain, 
373;  succeed  by  praising  ladies' 
beauty,  id. ;  driven  to  low  jesting 
and  juggling,  id. ;  and  to  loose 
music,  id. ;  thankful  under  great 
privations,  id. ;  at  churches,  id.  ; 
cruel  treatment  of,  395. 

Begging,  a  shameful  thing,  348;  mis- 
ery of,  368. 

Beginning,  used  for  first  impulse,  or 
for  grounding,  378. 

Belief,  of  things  in  heaven  increased 
from  what  takes  place  on  earth, 
283. 

Believers,  sins  of,  punished,  359. 

Belly,  the  many  ways  men  make  it 
their  god,  243;  moderation  a 
boundary  to  it,  as  the  sand  to 
the  sea,  id. 

Benjamin,  tribe  of,  that  in  which  the 
priest's  portion  was,  231. 

Benea,  persecution  at,  328. 

Bishops,  sometimes  called  presbyters 
and  deacons,  184;  have  authority 
from  Christ  by  succession,  274; 
come  from  God.  id. :  are  ambas- 
sadors from  God,  274-75. 

Bishop  (see  CArvsosfom,  Priest,  /W- 
er)f  responsibility  of,  372. 

Blasphemers,  hated  by  God,  taken  up 
by  the  devil  and  the  demons, 
209. 

Blood,  resisting  unto,  385. 

Body,  the,  may  be  made  spiritual, 
and  at  length  shine  in  heaven 
like  Christ's  body,  243;  shall  be 
made  immortal  by  the  power  of 
Christ,  244. 

Body  ^see  /Resurrection) ,  formation 
of,  a  mystery,  353-54:  unity  of, 
requires  care  of  all  parts,  381; 
place  of  head  in,  397. 

Bonds,  a  furtherance  to  the  Gospel, 
1S2,  1S9;  a  confirmation  of  the 
GospeU  186;  give  confidence  to 
others,  1 90;  cause  preaching  both 
from  envy  and  for  good-will,  id. ; 
the  great  service  they  are  to  St. 
Paul  and  to  his  work,  306;  a 
contrast  between  his  and  those 
the  women  bound  their  hair  with, 
307 :  St.  Paul's,  a  support  under 


all  kinds  of  tribulations,  315;  and 
in  temptations  to  luxury,  3 '5- 16. 

Books,  Christian  and  heathen,  379. 

Bowels,  of  Christ,  force  of  the  ex- 
pression, 188. 

Breastplate,  of  faith  and  love,  363. 

Brethren,  used  as  a  mark  of  honor, 
230;  murdered  by  refusing  sus- 
tenance, 359;  disorderly,  to  be 
punished,  not  starved,  393-94; 
nor  utterly  cut  off,  395. 

Bride,  with  what  ornaments  she  should 
be  adorned,  320. 

Brutes,  superior  to  man,  217. 

Bulimy,  ravenous  disease  called,  379. 

Busybodies,  never  satisfied,  379. 

Cain,  envied  for  want  of  love,  342: 
his  sin  punished,  359;  his  sin 
equaled,  id.;  had  no  written 
law,  id. 

Calling,  Christian,  requires  good  life, 
345 ;  many  fall  from,  385 ;  God's 
will  in  our,  363,  385. 

Canticles,  mystical  interpretation  of, 

352- 
Care,  undue,  takes  away  the  native 

force  of  the  soul,  229. 

Catechumens,  do  not  benefit  bv  re- 
membrance  in  the  Mysteries,  only 
by  alms,  197. 

Catasta,  336  (note  2). 

Ceiling,  gilded,  common  in  houses  of 
the  rich,  232. 

Caesar's  household,  obedient  to  St 
Paul's  preaching,  253. 

Chapels  of  martyrs,  373;  some  built 
by  Constantine,  tb.  (jiote  1) ;  poor 
at  doors  of,  id.;  alms  at  (refer- 
ence in  note  1). 

Chariot,  206. 

Charmer,  unpitied  if  bitten,  365. 

Charms  (see  Amulets),  offered  in  sick- 
ness, 336-37;  to  be  rejected  for 
fear  of  God,  id. 

Chastity,  specially  called  holiness,  342; 
blessing  of  keeping  till  marriage, 
346;  sometimes  found  in  heath- 
ens, 347;  first  practice  o£  keep- 
ing the  eyes,  378;  foundation  oC 
fasting,  id. 

Cheerfulness,  right  in  all  events,  223. 

Children,  of  nobles,  wear  golden  orna- 
ments round  the  neck,  as  those 
of  high  birth,  1S2:  put  it  off 
when  men,  183:  require  to  be 
indulged,  277;  loss  of.  not  a  new 
suffering,  and  a  gain  to  them. 
299;  may  be  wept  for.  bat  with- 
out blasphemous  words,  id.:  a: 
Constantinople  had  learnt  songs 
and  dances  of  Satan;  should  be 
instructed  in  psalms  and  hymns, 
301 ;  should  never  be  left  to  in- 
termix freely  with  servants  <.r 
friends  even,  id. ;  the  many  vir- 
tuous lessons  they  mar  be  in- 
structed in  from  the  Psalms.  302. 

Children,  term  used  by  St.  Paul  when 
he  would  correct  or  show  fond- 
ness for.  229:  loss  of.  too  great 
grief  for,  349;  what  chil-fren 
h*PPS  351-  C*kL  meet  tfcerr 
fathers,  356:    eaten    by  women. 


HOMILIES  ON  PHILIPPIANS,  COLOSSIANS,  THESSALONIANS.     571 


358;  curiosity  of,  360;  made  an 
excuse  for  avarice,  368;  God  may 
take  away  if  made  an  excuse, 
369;  patriarchs  had,  but  were 
not  covetous,  ib. ;  why  given,  ib. ; 
should  be  taught  to  fear  judg- 
ment, 383;  to  be  regulated,  384; 
cares  for,  sweet  to  a  mother,  392. 

Children,  the  three,  refreshed  in  the 
furnace,  325;  ventured  without 
knowing  they  should  escape,  361. 

Christ,  how  glorified  in  St.  Paul's  life 
or  death,  194;  exhorts  disciples  by 
examples  of  himself,  the  Father, 
and  prophets,  206;  called  the 
great  God  by  St.  Paul,  207;  His 
not  seizing  to  Himself  equality 
proves  Him  not  lesser  than  the 
•  Father,  208;  His  divinity  not 
matter  of  robbery,  but  His  right, 
natural  to  Him,  213;  Hisempty- 
.  ing  Himself  His  own  act,  ib. ;  if 
a  mere  creature,  did  not  humble 
Himself  in  washing  disciples'  feet, 
214;  in  what  ways  like  and  un- 
like other  men,  ib.;  underwent 
no  change  or  degeneracy  in  be- 
coming a  servant,  ib. ;  proved  to 
have  taken  a  soul  against  the 
Apotlinarians,  214-15;  was  not 
servile  in  becoming  willingly  obe- 
dient to  His  Father,  but  greatly 
honored  Him,  215;  His  humilia- 
tion corresponding  to  His  height, 
ib.;  His  death  greater  humilia- 
tion than  His  being  a  servant, 
ib. ;  the  most  ignominious  death 
of  all,  ib. ;  humbled  as  man,  ib. ; 
exalted  as  man,  ib.;  His  glory, 
honor,  or  dishonor  is  the  Father's 
too,  216;  His  obedience,  His 
exaltation,  ib.;  can  be  known 
only  by  faith,  235;  fellowship  in 
His  sufferings  and  death  through 
faith,  236;  comes  Himself  to  take 
His  friends  to  heaven,  244;  the 
grief  it  will  be  to  be  rejected 
from  His  kingdom  at  the  judg- 
ment, 245;  men  are  saints  be- 
cause of  their  faith  in  Him,  258; 
His  names  symbols  of  His  bene- 
fits to  man,  ib.;  He  cometh  to 
us  through  the  poor,  260;  present 
at  the  table  of  the  poor,  261 ;  the 
greatness  of  His  work  in  redemp- 
tion, 267;  First  of  the  Church, 
as  the  Adam  of  men,  271-72; 
still  suffers  in  His  members,  276; 
does  many  things  for  them  now, 
ib. ;  reasons  why  He  came  at  this 
time,  not  in  old  time,  277-79; 
in  Him  is  hid  all  wisdom,  281 ; 
•'  fullness  of  Godhead  "  in  Him 
means  that  God  dwelleth  in  Him, 
285;  blotted  out  the  bond  that 
was  against  man  by  His  death, 
286;  and  then  tore  it  in  two,  ib.; 
conquered  Satan  on  the  cross, 
ib. ;  His  death  public,  His  Res- 
urrection private,  ib.;  so  beauti- 
ful it  is  not  possible  to  tell,  295; 
is  put  on  by  clothing  the  soul 
with  virtues,  308;  present  at  mar- 
riages   319;     with    His    angels, 


320;  glorified  in  suffering,  325; 
waiting  for,  328;  His  resurrec- 
tion a  ground  of  hope,  328,  363; 
known  by  the  Jews,  though  slain 
by  them,  333;  foretold  affliction 
to  lighten  it,  335 ;  suffered  for  us 
while  enemies,  ib.;  he  that  can 
give  to,  rich,  338;  death  of, 
proves  incarnation  real,  352;  is 
in  the  faithful,  353;  our  Pilot, 
355 '»  words  of,  recorded  only  by 
St.  Paul,  ib. ;  voice  of,  raises  the 
dead,  ib.;  honor  of  meeting, 
356;  checked  curiosity  about  the 
end,  360-61;  comes  as  a  thief, 
and  why,  361 ;  comes  suddenly, 
though  preceded  by  Antichrist 
and  Elias,  362;  command  of,  to 
obey  rulers,  though  bad  men, 
366;  comes  to  table  in  the  poor, 
374;  proclaimed  at  hand  to  in- 
duce disappointment,  377 ;  spoke 
particularly  of  consummation  to 
provide  against  deceivers,  378; 
coming  of,  to  be  like  lightning, 
ib. ;  taught  humility  by  washing 
disciples'  feet,  379;  suffering  for, 
glorious,  385 ;  coming  of,  will  be 
with  gathering  of  saints,  385-86; 
followers  of  Antichrist  would  in 
no  case  have  believed,  389;  did 
not  openly  call  Himself  God,  ib.  ; 
excuses  for  not  believing,  taken 
away  through  Antichrist,  389; 
came  in  the  Father's  name,  ib. ; 
called  the  I<ove  of  the  Truth,  ib. ; 
friend  of  man,  390;  glory  of,  to 
save  men,  ib. ;  is  present  where 
men  pray  together,  392;  to  be 
waited  for,  393;  forbade  idle- 
ness, 394. 

Christians,  of  old,  sharers  of  St.  Paul's 
sufferings,  200;  if  they  glorify 
Christ,  and  live  not  rightly,  insult 
Him,  and  worse  than  heathen, 
216;  enemies  to  the  cross,  who 
seek  ease  and  luxury,  242;  called 
faithful  because  of  mysteries  in- 
trusted to  them  never  intrusted 
to  others,  258;  a  call  to  have  a 
portion  of  the  Saints  in  Light, 
266;  translated  into  it  by  Christ, 
ib.;  yet  prefer  ease  and  luxury 
in  this  world,  267;  contrasts  be- 
tween state  of,  at  baptism  and 
Adam's  state  in  Paradise,  287; 
can  only  be  kept  in  state  of 
purity  by  a  virtuous  life,  287-88; 
are  risen  with  Christ,  therefore 
their  life  is  not  this  life,  nor  will 
it  appear  till  He  appears,  289; 
compare  to  a  corpse,  290;  have 
all  one  royal  form,  viz.,  that  of 
Christ,  297;  should  make  the 
sign  of  the  cross,  and  not  use 
amulets,  298;  should  not  always 
be  learning,  but  should  be  able 
after  a  time  to  teach  others  also, 
301;  wisdom  with  which  they 
should  treat  those  that  are  not 
Christians,  309;  in  having  put 
on  Christ,  are  clothed  with  orna- 
ment enough,  307. 

Christian,  so  may  you  die,  a  form  of 


adjuration,  372;  first  all  friends, 
331;  appointed  to  trials,  335; 
present,  have  borne  nothing,  ib. ; 
are  not  ready  for  war,  ib.;  in 
peace  should  provide  for  war, 
336;  are  Christ's  in  death  or 
life,  363;  first,  as  one  family, 
hence  withdrawal  much   feared, 

395-90- 
Christ-mongers,  some  call,  348. 

Christs,  false,  provided  against,  378. 

Chrysostom,  St.,  admires  St.  Paul 
more  for  his  grief  at  sinners  than 
for  his  many  trials,  254-55;  is 
not  afraid  to  warn  people  of  their 
sins  because  he  may  be  left  with 
a  small  congregation,  293;  the 
mind  with  which  he  had  spoken 
of  the  defects  of  his  people,  ib.  ; 
his  hearty  joy  at  the  mention  of 
St.  Paul's  bonds,  306;  straitened 
for  an  example  of  friendship, 
331 ;  his  argument  about  fornica- 
tion, 342;  apostrophizes  Joseph, 
343;  urges  to  immediate  forgive- 
ness, ib.:  talks  like  a  match- 
maker, 346;  must  speak  of  un- 
clean things  for  remedy,  ib.  ; 
calls  his  charge  his  own  body, 
ib.;  in  fear  of  punishment  be- 
cause of  his  office,  359;  promises 
to  prove  that  hell  is  not  against 
God's  mercy,  359-60;  grieves  for 
scorners,  365 ;  complained  of  for 
discipline,  366;  prayed  for  the 
people,  though  unworthy  to  do 
so,  371;  asks  their  prayers  on 
account  of  his  responsibility,  372; 
and  on  account  of  Satan's  as- 
saults, 391 ;  feels  for  the  people 
as  a  father,  391 ;  asks  to  hear 
any  complaint,  392;  wishes  his 
charge  multiplied,  though  heavy, 
ib.;  spiritual  children  of,  ib.; 
pangs  for,  ib. ;  preached  as  bishop 
once  or  twice  a  month,  396;  asks 
help  in  teaching,  397. 

Church,  the,  the  bride  of  Christ  and 
of  His  flesh,  319;  the  real  palace, 
373;  poor  around  doors  of,  ib.; 
lessons  from  this,  374;  rich  are 
vain  and  showy  in,  387;  rever- 
ence in,  388;  called  in  God>  for 
distinction  from  other  assemblies, 
324;  of  Constantinople,  unworthy 
to  be  so  called,  ib. ;  offenders  re- 
moved from,  336;  order  of,  like 
that  of  an  army,  367;  they  that 
war  on,  say  they  know  God,  378; 
whole,  claims  our  love,  381 ;  tra- 
dition of,  390;  each  once  like 
one  family,  396;  glory  of,  lost 
for  want  of  love,  ib. 

Churches,  Antichrist  shall  be  seated 
in,  386. 

Circumcision,  might  be  performed  to 
the  breaking  of  the  Sabbath,  230; 
nothing  but  "concision"  when 
the  law  was  no  more,  230;  what 
true  circumcision  is,  ib.;  only  a 
type,  231;  how  it  differed  from 
baptism,  285. 

Coiner,  coineth  but  in  vain,  388. 

Colony,  Philippi  so  called,  181. 


572     HOMILIES  ON  PHILIPPIANS,  COLOSSIANS,  THESSALONIANS. 


Colossa?,  a  city  of  Phrygia,  256. 

Colossi  an s,  Epistle  to  the,  written 
while  St.  Paul  was  in  bonds,  and 
after  that  to  the  Romans,  257; 
later  than  that  to  the  Philippians, 
ib.;  their  fruitfulness  after  they 
had  received  grace,  259;  are 
brought  unto  God  by  ministers 
of  Christ,  not  by  angels,  ib.; 
praised  for  their  way  of  life,  265 ; 
blamed  for  their  doctrines,  ib.; 
must  be  brought  unto  God  by 
His  Son,  no  more  by  angels, 
264;  their  love  for  St.  Paul,  280; 
saw  him  constantly  in  the  spirit, 
ib.;  their  steadfastness  in  faith, 
281 ;  warned  against  their  notion 
about  angels  by  being  bid  walk 
in  Christ,  284;  warned  against 
some  false  philosophizer  that 
would  gradually  undermine  them, 
ib. 

Commands,  different  at  the  end  of 
some  Epistles,  303. 

Commandments,  perfection  goes  be- 
yond, 344. 

Commendation,  needs  qualifying,  385; 
carefully  guarded,  393. 

Concision.     See  Circumcision,  230. 

Conscience,  a  terror  to  those  that  live 
in  crime,  248;  constantly  tells 
men  they  sin,  but  they  refuse  to 
know  it,  269. 

Constant! ne,  built  chapels  to  martyrs, 
373  (note  1). 

Constantinople,  St.  Gregory  Nazian- 
zen  at,  361  (note  3) ;  Constantine 
built  chapels  to  martyrs  in,  373 
(note  1). 

Consummation,  curiosity  about  time 
of,  360;  curiosity  checked,  ib.; 
time  of,  best  not  known,  361 ; 
death  is  to  each  one,  360;  now 
going  on,  360-61;  Christ  spoke 
particularly  of,  to  exclude  de- 
ceivers, 378;  Thessalonians  per- 
plexed about,  ib. 

Contention,  nature  of  man  fond  of, 
217;  does  away  with  peace, 
248. 

Contentious,  the,  require  arguments 
from  reason  as  well  as  Scripture, 
212. 

Contentment,  in  all  states  not  easy, 
and  requires  discipline  and  trial, 
250. 

Contrite  spirit,  God  loves,  278. 

Conversation,  about  hell,  useful,  382- 
83;  of  other  men's  matters,  dan- 
gerous, 383. 

Corinth,  fornicator  of,  quenched  the 
spirit,  370;  cured  by  withdraw- 
ing from  him,  396. 

Corinthians,  were  not  poor,  332;  Tim- 
othy sent  to,  335 ;  reasoned  with, 
because  indocile,  353. 

Cornelius,  example  for  a  soldier,  241 ; 
prayer  of,  326. 

Correction,  by  means  of  hard  sayings, 
211-12. 

Covenant,  the  nature  of  a,  287. 

Covetousness,  its  bad  effects,  248; 
more  cruel  than  robbery,  369-70; 
to  be  checked,  370. 


Courage,  not  haughtiness,  205  (see 
Pride) ;  examples  of  true  courage, 
205 ;  is  shown  in  the  absence  of 
self-love,  206;  has  scope  through 
uncertainty,  361. 

Craticula,  336  (note). 

Cross,  the,  must  be  borne  by  Chris- 
tians, 242;  its  power,  ib.;  Chris- 
tians exhorted  to  sign  themselves 
with  it,  298. 

Cupping-glass,  draws  out  disease,  387. 

Curiosity,  must  not  be  indulged,  277, 
279;  natural  to  man,  360;  indul- 
gence promotes,  ib.;  especially 
about  the  consummation,  ib.; 
belongs  to  an  imperfect  state, 
ib.;  reasons  against,  ib.;  excuse 
for,  to  answer  heathens,  ib. 

Daniel,  his  humility  shows  us  how  we 
should  meet  the  pride  that  comes 
from  wisdom,  204  (see  Apostles 
and  Joseph)',  thought  a  god, 
327;  could  not  have  saved  Jews, 
ib. 

Darkness,  works  of,  362;  vice  a,  363; 
is  over  the  earth,  370. 

Daughters,  of  men,  357;  Lot  would 
have  given  up,  for  the  sake  of 
God's  servants,  358. 

David,  example  of  humility,  205  (see 
Humility)',  an  example  how  to 
behave  in  a  kingdom,  241; 
Samuel  sent  to  anoint,  339;  care 
of  people  for,  391. 

Day,  sons  of,  362;  to  be  such  our 
own  part,  ib. ;  of  the  Lord  comes 
as  a  thief,  326,  360 ;  of  judg- 
ment, circumstances  of,  355; 
darkness  to  some,  light  to  others, 
362;  comes  as  travail  on  a 
woman,  but  partially  foreknown, 
362;  as  a  thief  to  men  in  dark- 
ness, ib.;  last,  will  show  who 
have  believed,  385;  falsely  pro- 
claimed at  hand,  386. 

Deacon,  bids  silence  for  lessons,  387. 

Dead,  of  all  ages,  raised,  356;  raised 
and  gathered  before  caught  up, 
ib.;  all  await  the  end,  361;  by 
nature  and  in  sin  compared,  363- 
64;  one  who  wrongs  us  is  in 
sin,  368;  therefore  we  need  no 
revenge,  ib. ;  burial  of,  379. 

Death,  no  shame  to  a  Christian,  194; 
only  a  coming  to  life  to  the 
Christian,  196;  in  itself  indiffer- 
ent, ib.;  several  causes  of  the 
fear  of,  198;  that  by  the  Cross 
most  ignominious,  215;  of  the 
just  matter  of  joy,  223;  that  of 
desperately  bad,  cause  of  more 
joy,  ib. ;  if  really  death,  sad,  349; 
horror  of  being  led  to,  356;  eter- 
nal more  terrible,  ib.;  consum- 
mation to  each  one,  360;  time 
of,  best  unknown,  361 ;  fear  of, 
restrains  many,  ib. ;  vice  a,  363 ; 
going  to,  by  a  broad  road  unen- 
viable, 364;  thought  of,  hum- 
bling, ib. 

Deceit,  a  good  kind  of,  284. 

Deeds,  teach,  not  words  only,  240; 
make  the  teacher  to  be  rever- 


enced and  obeyed  by  disciple, 
ib.;  "of  the  old  man"  means 
that   of  the   bad  moral  choice, 

294-95- 
Deep,  how  to  traverse  safely,  355. 

"Defense,  of  the  Gospel,"  the  ex- 
pression explained,  190. 

Delay,  folly  of,  325 ;  makes  forgiving 
harder,  343;  of  Judgment  is  for 
our  repentance,  384. 

Deluge,  disbelieved  till  it  came,  356; 
of  Hell,  357. 

Demons,  statues  in  houses  so  called, 
232;  praised  in  song  at  heathen 
feasts,  262 ;  beset  way  from  earth 
to  heaven,  371. 

Desire,  the  end  for  which  it  is  im- 
planted in  the  mind,  233;  to  be 
limited  except  in  heavenly  things, 

370. 
Despair,  none  to,  though  late,  325-26; 

makes  any  one  bold,  361 ;  men 

should  not  be  driven  to,  395. 

Despondency,   relieved   by  example, 

349- 
Difficulties,  met  by  difficulties,  353-54; 

of  others  turned  to  our  good,  378. 

Disciples,  Christ  washed  feet  of,  379; 
in  schools  are  also  teachers,  397. 

Discipline,  Church,  thought  odious, 
366. 

Discourses,  of  Hell,  profitable,  359; 
thought  unpleasant,  382;  qualify 
the  soul,  383-84;  are  to  it  as 
wind  to  ships,  383;  to  be  applied 
to  all,  384;  preferred  by  many  to 
lessons,  388;  yet  not  heeded  by 
them,  388;  less  effective  than 
life,  396. 

Dishonor,  for  Christ's  sake  glorious, 

385. 
Disease,   produced    by    carelessness, 

364;  sin  a,  ib.;  to  be  expected, 

367- 
Disorderly,  who  are,  367,  394;   not  to 

starve  to  death,  394. 

Dispensation,  may  have  two  mean- 
ings, 277. 

Disputing,  what  it  means,  220. 

Dives.     See  Rich  man. 

Divinity,  not  spoken  of  as  unequal  in 
Scripture,  207. 

Diviners,  not  consulting,  makes  loss  a 
gain,  337;  may  learn  something 
of  Satan,  ib.:  going  to  them 
pleases  him,  ib. 

Doctrines,  not  to  be  forsaken  for  hu- 
man respects,  381. 

Docetee,  352  (note  2). 

Dogs,  the  poor  are,  of  God's  palace, 

374. 
Draught,  of  wind  puts  out  lamp,  370. 

Dress,  should  not  make  men  proud, 
217. 

Drunkenness,  any  vice  a,  362;  causes 
sleep,  364. 

Duties,  should  be  done  not  from  na- 
ture only,  but  from  higher  motive 
of  pleasing  God,  304. 

Ear,  formation  of,  354;  sin  may  enter 

by,  370- 

Ears,  how  to  use  them  in  God's  ser- 
vice, 233. 


HOMILIES  ON  PHILIPPIANS,  COLOSSIANS,  THESSALONIANS.    573 


Earth,  imperfectly  known  to  men, 
354;  shall  give  up  the  dead,  356 ; 
things  of,  quench  grace,  370; 
way  from,  to  heaven  beset  by  de- 
mons, 371. 

Ease,  in  this  world  is  not  the  way  to 
heaven,  255;  in  this  world  is  not 
the  life  of  Christians,  289. 

Edification,  mutual,  366. 

Education,  soul  the  chief  object  in, 

346. 
Egypt,  bad  character  of,  358. ' 

Egyptians,  drowned,  358;  irascible 
and  unforgiving,  380. 

Elation,  more  disease  to  the  soul  than 
dropsy  to  the  body,  217. 

Elect,  the,  worth  suffering  for,  325; 
to  be  gathered  by  Angels,  355; 
honored  by  meeting  Christ,  356; 
Antichrist  might  well-nigh  de- 
ceive, 386. 

Eli,  and  his  sons,  punished,  359 ;  sin 
of,  not  unimitated,  ib. 

Elias,  example  of  courage,  205;  type 
of  the  Resurrection,  283;  to 
come  before  Christ,  362,  378, 
390;  example  of  poverty,  240. 

Empire,  Roman,  388. 

Endurance,  Christian,  convinces  ad- 
versaries, 200. 

Enemies,  spiritual,  enumerated,  336; 
to  be  talked  to  concerning  Hell, 

384. 
Enemy,  an,  should  be  treated  as  a 

real  friend,  249;  softened  by 
kindness,  343;  good  of  not  hav- 
ing, 395- 

Enmities,  ruler  must  incur,  366;  of 
great,  not  feared  by  first  Chris- 
tians, 381. 

Enmity,  had  its  origin  from  the  earth, 

275- 
Enoch,  type  of  the  resurrection,  283. 

Envy,  the  causes  of  it,  191 ;  to  in- 
dulge it  makes  us  friends  of  Sa- 
tan's, to  resist  it  makes  us  sharers 
in  our  brother's  pleasure,  312; 
he  that  resists  it,  makes  his  own 
soul  brighter  than  his  whose 
grace  he  envies,  and  gains  three 
crowns,  313;  makes  to  fight 
against  God  and  His  Church, 
and  puts  a  man  in  punishment, 
313;  likened  to  a  savage  beast, 
ib.;  of  Cain  from  want  of  love, 
342 ;  bred  at  marriage  feasts,  384. 

Epaphras.     See  Epaphroditus. 

Epaphroditus,  sent  by  clergy  of 
Philippi  to  St.  Paul,  184;  sent 
to  the  Philippians  by  St.  Paul, 
223;  St.  Paul's  fellow-soldier, 
224;  "Messenger"  or  "Teach- 
er "  to  the  Philippians,  225 ;  his 
sickness  and  recovery,  ib. ;  risked 
his  life  in  going  to  visit  St.  Paul, 
ib.;  the  service  of  all  the  Phil- 
ippians fulfilled  through  him, 
226;  the  bearer  of  the  Epistle 
to  the  Philippians,  249;  bearer 
of  alms  to  St.  Paul,  252;  brought 
St.  Paul  the  account  of  the  Co- 
lossians,  258;  commended  by  St. 
Paul,  314;  a  Colossian,  ib.;  St. 
Paul's  great  praise  of  him,  315. 


Ephesians,  Epistle  to,  written  while 
St.  Paul  was  in  Ixmds,  257. 

Ephesus,  Elders  of,  355. 

Epistle  to  Hebrews,  called  one  of  St 
Paul's  writings,  184;  second  to 
Thessalonians,  occasion  of,  377; 
one  forged  as  from  St.  Paul,  377, 
386;  token  of  a  true,  377;  pref- 
aced with  prayer  for  God's  fa- 
vor, 380;   not  all  things  given  in, 

390. 
Erythnean  sea,  358. 

Eternity,  of  future  punishment,  384. 

Eve,  clothed  herself  with  the  garment 

of  sin,   and   became   unseemly, 

3<>7- 
Evil,  not  to  be  rendered  for  evil,  367; 

much  less  for  good,  ib. ;  all  to  be 

abstained  from,  371. 

Evil-speaking,  true  or   false,  against 

superiors   brings    harm    to    the 

speaker,  228;    love   allows   not, 

381. 
Eusebius,  of  Constantine's   building 

chapels,  373  (note  1). 
Example,  must  be  from   a   stronger 

case,  208. 
Examples,  of  different  kinds,  in  Holy 

Scripture    that    each    Christian 

may  follow  as  he  is  able,  240. 
Excuses,  vain  and  inconsistent,  388. 
Execution,  horror  of  going  to,  356- 

57- 
Executioner,  abhorred,  347. 

Eyes,  the  right  way  of  employing 
them  in  God's  service,  233;  for- 
mation of,  354;  an  inlet  of  dan- 
ger, 370,  378;  must  care  for 
whole  body,  381. 

Ezekiel,  his  prayer  rejected,  327;  not 
on  his  own  account,  ib. ;  his  suf- 
ferings, ib.;  his  way  of  speak- 
ing* 371- 

Faith,  alone  comprehends  mysteries, 
236;  is  perfected  by  doing  works 
like  Christ's  works,  ib.;  coupled 
with  conduct  everywhere  by  St. 
Paul,  264;  causes  solidity  when 
it  shuts  out  reasonings,  282;  in- 
stances of  the  need  of  it  in  things 
above  human  conception,  282- 
8^;  implies  willingness  to  suffer, 
324;  proved  by  it,  ib, ;  strong,  of 
Thessalonians,  328;  what  could 
be  lacking  in,  341 ;  in  Mysteries, 
354;  needed  everywhere,  ib.; 
sails  of,  355;  a  breastplate,  363; 
how  strengthened,  363,  380  ; 
weakness  in,  367 ;  design  of  some 
to  subvert,  377;  weak,  shaken 
by  affliction,  strong  confirmed, 
381;  work  of,  is  patience,  385; 
not  given  to  all,  391. 

Faithful,  are  God's  riches,  385. 

Fans,  used  in  Holy  Eucharist,  205 
(note  1). 

Fasting,  foundation  of  chastity,  378; 
and  prayer,  not  work  of  hands, 

394- 
Fate,  a  cruel  doctrine,  269;  believed 

only  by  those  that  defined  Pleas- 
ure the  "  end  "  and  did  not  love 
Virtue,  ib. 


Father,  name  of  The,  enough  to  show 
His  priority,  213;  we  stand  be- 
fore, when  judged  by  Christ,  342 ; 
Christ  came  in  the  name  of,  3S9. 

Father,  St.  Chrysostom  feels  as  a, 
391 ;  is  to  many  in  the  spirit,  392; 
even  to  those  baptized  by  others, 
ib. ;  all  Christians  at  first  as  un- 
der one,  396. 

Fathers,  duty  of,  to  their  children, 
304;  reward  children  for  virtue 
as  pleasing  them,  332;  should 
keep  sons  in  chastity,  346;  good 
children  meet,  356;  neglect  edu- 
cation of  sons,  359;  have  to  an- 
noy their  sons,  366;  but  can  do 
so  unresisted,  ib. ;  relation  of,  to 
sons,  why  appointed,  369;  even 
as  such  have  claims  on  children, 
372;  would  not  lose  their  chil- 
dren, though  burdened,  392. 

Fathers,  old,  wait  for  us,  356. 

Fault,  to  be  spoken  of  to  the  persons 
concerned,  392. 

Favorers,  312. 

Favor,  of  God.     See  Grace,  380. 

Fear  of  God  is  better  than  all  things, 
197;  not  so  powerful  as  shame 
to  bring  us  to  right  tone,  201 ;  a 
means  of  softening  the  mind,  212; 
needful  for  setting  a  high  exam- 
ple, 219;  in  achieving  temporal, 
much  more  spiritual  matters,  ib.  ; 
produced  by  remembrance  of 
God's  presence  everywhere,  ib.  ; 
should  not  cast  down  because 
God  works  with  man,  220;  of 
man  often  more  persuasive  than 
fear  of  hell,  226. 

Fear,  382;  if  early  learned,  not  soon 
effaced,  383-84;  we  should  hear 
with,  in  church,  388. 

Feast,  differences  between  a  Christian 
and  a  heathen,  262;  best  to  in- 
vite poor  to,  374. 

Feet,  how  to  use  them  in  God's  ser- 
vice, 233. 

"  Fellowship  in  the  Gospel,"  what  St. 
Paul  means  by  it,  185. 

Fig  tree,  what  it  grows  from,  353. 

Fire,  appointed  for  avaricious,  21 1; 
see  river  of,  365;    thought  of, 
good,  382;    makes   riddance  of 
thorns,  387;   kills   small   insects 
far  off,  389. 

Fiery  furnace,  type  of  the  Resurrec- 
tion, 283. 

Firstborn,  of  every  creature,  its  mean- 
ing, 270;  another  meaning,  271 ; 
from  the  dead,  352. 

Flattery,  not  humility,  is  shown  by 
courting  for  the  things  of  this 
life,  206. 

Fleetness,  should  not  make  men 
proud,  217. 

Flesh,  the,  hath  been  honored  by  God, 
was  dishonored  by  the  false  teach- 
ers of  the  Colossians,  289;  of 
Christ,  deniers  of,  352. 

Folly,  not  so  bad  as  haughtiness,  217; 
all  sin  so  called;  contrast  be- 
tween it  and  wisdom,  300. 

Forbearance,  of  God,  384. 

Forgive,  not  to,  cause  of  greater  harm 


572     HOMILIES  ON  PHILIPPIANS,  COLOSSIANS,  THESSALONIANS. 


Colossae,  a  city  of  Phrygia,  256. 

Colossians,  Epistle  to  the,  written 
while  St.  Paul  was  in  bonds,  and 
after  that  to  the  Romans,  257; 
later  than  that  to  the  Philippians, 
ib. ;  their  fruitfulness  after  they 
had  received  grace,  259;  are 
brought  unto  God  by  ministers 
of  Christ,  not  by  angels,  ib.; 
praised  for  their  way  of  life,  265 ; 
blamed  for  their  doctrines,  ib.; 
must  be  brought  unto  God  by 
His  Son,  no  more  by  angels, 
264;  their  love  for  St.  Paul,  280; 
saw  him  constantly  in  the  spirit, 
ib.;  their  steadfastness  in  faith, 
281 ;  warned  against  their  notion 
about  angels  by  being  bid  walk 
in  Christ,  284;  warned  against 
some  false  philosophizer  that 
would  gradually  undermine  them, 
ib. 

Commands,  different  at  the  end  of 
some  Epistles,  303. 

Commandments,  perfection  goes  be- 
yond, 344. 

Commendation,  needs  qualifying,  385; 
carefully  guarded,  393. 

Concision.     See  Circumcision,  230. 

Conscience,  a  terror  to  those  that  live 
in  crime,  248;  constantly  tells 
men  they  sin,  but  they  refuse  to 
know  it,  269. 

Constantine,  built  chapels  to  martyrs, 
373  (note  1). 

Constantinople,  St.  Gregory  Nazian- 
zen  at,  361  (note  3) ;  Constantine 
built  chapels  to  martyrs  in,  373 
(note  1). 

Consummation,  curiosity  about  time 
of,  360;  curiosity  checked,  ib.; 
time  of,  best  not  known,  361; 
death  is  to  each  one,  360;  now 
going  on,  360-61;  Christ  spoke 
particularly  of,  to  exclude  de- 
ceivers, 378;  Thessalonians  per- 
plexed about,  ib. 

Contention,  nature  of  man  fond  of, 
217;  does  away  with  peace, 
248. 

Contentious,  the,  require  arguments 
from  reason  as  well  as  Scripture, 
212. 

Contentment,  in  all  states  not  easy, 
and  requires  discipline  and  trial, 
250. 

Contrite  spirit,  God  loves,  278. 

Conversation,  about  hell,  useful,  382- 
83;  of  other  men's  matters,  dan- 
gerous, 383. 

Corinth,  fornicator  of,  quenched  the 
spirit,  370;  cured  by  withdraw- 
ing from  him,  396. 

Corinthians,  were  not  poor,  332;  Tim- 
othy sent  to,  335 ;  reasoned  with, 
because  indocile,  353. 

Cornelius,  example  for  a  soldier,  241 ; 
prayer  of,  326. 

Correction,  by  means  of  hard  sayings, 
211-12. 

Covenant,  the  nature  of  a,  287. 

Covetousness,  its  bad  effects,  248; 
more  cruel  than  robbery,  369-70; 
to  be  checked,  370. 


Courage,  not  haughtiness,  205  (see 
Pride) ;  examples  of  true  courage, 
205;  is  shown  in  the  absence  of 
self-love,  206;  has  scope  through 
uncertainty,  361. 

Craticula,  336  (note). 

Cross,  the,  must  be  borne  by  Chris- 
tians, 242;  its  power,  ib.;  Chris- 
tians exhorted  to  sign  themselves 
with  it,  298. 

Cupping-glass,  draws  out  disease,  387. 

Curiosity,  must  not  be  indulged,  277, 
279;  natural  to  man,  360;  indul- 
gence promotes,  ib.;  especially 
about  the  consummation,  ib.; 
belongs  to  an  imperfect  state, 
ib.;  reasons  against,  ib.;  excuse 
for,  to  answer  heathens,  ib. 

Daniel,  his  humility  shows  us  how  we 
should  meet  the  pride  that  comes 
from  wisdom,  204  (see  Apostles 
and  Joseph) ;  thought  a  god, 
327;  could  not  have  saved  Jews, 
ib. 

Darkness,  works  of,  362;  vice  a,  363; 
is  over  the  earth,  370. 

Daughters,  of  men,  357;  Lot  would 
have  given  up,  for  the  sake  of 
God's  servants,  358. 

David,  example  of  humility,  205  (see 
Humility) ;  an  example  how  to 
behave  in  a  kingdom,  241; 
Samuel  sent  to  anoint,  339;  care 
of  people  for,  391. 

Day,  sons  of,  362;  to  be  such  our 
own  part,  ib. ;  of  the  Lord  comes 
as  a  thief,  326,  360 ;  of  judg- 
ment, circumstances  of,  355; 
darkness  to  some,  light  to  others, 
362;  comes  as  travail  on  a 
woman,  but  partially  foreknown, 
362;  as  a  thief  to  men  in  dark- 
ness, ib.;  last,  will  show  who 
have  believed,  385;  falsely  pro- 
claimed at  hand,  386. 

Deacon,  bids  silence  for  lessons,  387. 

Dead,  of  all  ages,  raised,  356;  raised 
and  gathered  before  caught  up, 
ib.;  all  await  the  end,  361;  by 
nature  and  in  sin  compared,  363- 
64;  one  who  wrongs  us  is  in 
sin,  368;  therefore  we  need  no 
revenge,  ib. ;  burial  of,  379. 

Death,  no  shame  to  a  Christian,  194; 
only  a  coming  to  life  to  the 
Christian,  196;  in  itself  indiffer- 
ent, ib.;  several  causes  of  the 
fear  of,  198;  that  by  the  Cross 
most  ignominious,  215;  of  the 
just  matter  of  joy,  223;  that  of 
desperately  bad,  cause  of  more 
joy,  ib. ;  if  really  death,  sad,  349; 
horror  of  being  led  to,  356;  eter- 
nal more  terrible,  ib.;  consum- 
mation to  each  one,  360;  time 
of,  best  unknown,  361 ;  fear  of, 
restrains  many,  ib. ;  vice  a,  363; 
going  to,  by  a  broad  road  unen- 
viable, 364;  thought  of,  hum- 
bling, ib. 

Deceit,  a  good  kind  of,  284. 

Deeds,  teach,  not  words  only,  240; 
make  the  teacher  to  be  rever- 


enced and  obeyed  by  disciple, 
ib.;  "of  the  old  man"  means 
that   of  the   bad  moral  choice, 

294-95- 
Deep,  how  to  traverse  safely,  355. 

"Defense,  of  the  Gospel,"  the  ex- 
pression explained,  190. 

Delay,  folly  of,  325 ;  makes  forgiving 
harder,  343;  of  Judgment  is  for 
our  repentance,  384. 

Deluge,  disbelieved  till  it  came,  356; 
of  Hell,  357. 

Demons,  statues  in  houses  so  called, 
232;  praised  in  song  at  heathen 
feasts,  262;  beset  way  from  earth 
to  heaven,  371. 

Desire,  the  end  for  which  it  is  im- 
planted in  the  mind,  233;  to  be 
limited  except  in  heavenly  things, 

37°. 
Despair,  none  to,  though  late,  325-26; 

makes  any  one  bold,  361;  men 

should  not  be  driven  to,  395. 

Despondency,   relieved   by   example, 

349. 
Difficulties,  met  by  difficulties,  353-54; 

of  others  turned  to  our  good,  378. 

Disciples,  Christ  washed  feet  of,  379; 
in  schools  are  also  teachers,  397. 

Discipline,  Church,  thought  odious, 
366. 

Discourses,  of  Hell,  profitable,  359; 
thought  unpleasant,  382;  qualify 
the  soul,  383-84;  are  to  it  as 
wind  to  ships,  383;  to  be  applied 
to  all,  384;  preferred  by  many  to 
lessons,  388;  yet  not  heeded  by 
them,  388;  less  effective  than 
life,  396. 

Dishonor,  for  Christ's  sake  glorious, 

385. 
Disease,   produced    by    carelessness, 

364;  sin  a,  ib.;  to  be  expected, 

367- 
Disorderly,  who  are,  367,  394;   not  to 

starve  to  death,  394. 

Dispensation,  may  have  two  mean- 
ings, 277. 

Disputing,  what  it  means,  220. 

Dives.     See  Itich  man. 

Divinity,  not  spoken  of  as  unequal  in 
Scripture,  207. 

Diviners,  not  consulting,  makes  loss  a 
gain,  337;  may  learn  something 
of  Satan,  ib.:  going  to  them 
pleases  him,  ib. 

Doctrines,  not  to  be  forsaken  for  hu- 
man respects,  381. 

Docefce,  352  (note  2). 

Dogs,  the  poor  are,  of  God's  palace, 

374. 
Draught,  of  wind  puts  out  lamp,  370. 

Dress,  should  not  make  men  proud, 
217. 

Drunkenness,  any  vice  a,  362 ;  causes 
sleep,  364. 

Duties,  should  be  done  not  from  na- 
ture only,  but  from  higher  motive 
of  pleasing  God,  304. 

Ear,  formation  of,  354;  sin  may  enter 

ty,  37°- 
Ears,  how  to  use  them  in  God's  ser- 
vice, 233. 


HOMILIES  ON  PHILIPPIANS,  COLOSSI ANS,  THKSSALONIANS.     573 


Earth,  imperfectly  known  to  men, 
354;  shall  give  up  the  dead,  356; 
things  of,  quench  grace,  370; 
way  from,  to  heaven  beset  by  de- 
mons, 371. 

Ease,  in  this  world  is  not  the  way  to 
heaven,  255;  in  this  world  is  not 
the  life  of  Christians,  289. 

Edification,  mutual,  366. 

Education,  soul  the  chief  object  in, 

346. 

Egypt,  bad  character  of,  358. ' 

Egyptians,  drowned,  358;  irascible 
and  unforgiving,  380. 

Elation,  more  disease  to  the  soul  than 
dropsy  to  the  body,  217. 

Elect,  the,  worth  suffering  for,  325; 
to  be  gathered  by  Angels,  355; 
honored  by  meeting  Christ,  356; 
Antichrist  might  well-nigh  de- 
ceive, 386. 

Eli,  and  his  sons,  punished,  359;  sin 
of,  not  unimitated,  ib. 

Elias,  example  of  courage,  205;  type 
of  the  Resurrection,  283;  to 
come  before  Christ,  362,  378, 
390;   example  of  poverty,  240. 

Empire,  Roman,  388. 

Endurance,  Christian,  convinces  ad- 
versaries, 200. 

Enemies,  spiritual,  enumerated,  336; 
to  be  talked  to  concerning  Hell, 

384. 
Enemy,  an,   should  be  treated  as  a 

real  friend,  249;  softened  by 
kindness,  343;  good  of  not  hav- 
ing, 395- 

Enmities,  ruler  must  incur,  366;  of 
great,  not  feared  by  first  Chris- 
tians, 381. 

Enmity,  had  its  origin  from  the  earth, 

275- 
Enoch,  type  of  the  resurrection,  283. 

Envy,  the  causes  of  it,  191 ;  to  in- 
dulge it  makes  us  friends  of  Sa- 
tan's, to  resist  it  makes  us  sharers 
in  our  brother's  pleasure,  312; 
he  that  resists  it,  makes  his  own 
soul  brighter  than  his  whose 
grace  he  envies,  and  gains  three 
crowns,  313;  makes  to  fight 
against  God  and  His  Church, 
and  puts  a  man  in  punishment, 
313;  likened  to  a  savage  beast, 
ib.;  of  Cain  from  want  of  love, 
342;  bred  at  marriage  feasts,  384. 

Epaphras.     See  Epaphroditm. 

Epaphroditus,  sent  by  clergy  of 
Philippi  to  St.  Paul,  184;  sent 
to  the  Philippians  by  St.  Paul, 
223;  St.  Paul's  fellow-soldier, 
224;  "Messenger"  or  "Teach- 
er" to  the  Philippians,  225;  his 
sickness  and  recover)*,  ib. ;  risked 
his  life  in  going  to  visit  St.  Paul, 
ib.:  the  service  of  all  the  Phil- 
ippians fulfilled  through  him, 
226;  the  bearer  of  the  Epistle 
to  the  Philippians,  249;  bearer 
of  alms  to  St.  Paul,  252;  brought 
St.  Paul  the  account  of  the  Co- 
lossians,  258;  commended  by  St. 
Paul,  314;  a  Colossi  an,  ib.;  St. 
Paul's  great  praise  of  him,  315. 


Ephesians,  Epistle  to,  written  while 
St.  Paul  was  in  bonds,  257. 

Ephesus,  Elders  of,  355. 

Epistle  to  Hebrews,  called  one  of  St. 
Paul's  writings,  184;  second  to 
Thessalonians,  occasion  of,  377; 
one  forged  as  from  St.  Paul,  377, 
386;  token  of  a  true,  377;  pref- 
aced with  prayer  for  God's  fa- 
vor, 380;   not  all  things  given  in, 

390. 
Erythnean  sea,  358. 

Eternity,  of  future  punishment,  384. 

Eve,  clothed  herself  with  the  garment 

of  sin,   and   became    unseemly, 

307- 
Evil,  not  to  be  rendered  for  evil,  367 ; 

much  less  for  good,  ib. ;  all  to  be 

abstained  from,  371. 

Evil-speaking,  true  or   false,  against 

superiors   brings    harm    to    the 

speaker,  228;    love   allows   not, 

381. 
Eusebius,  of   Constantine's   building 

chapels,  373  (note  1). 
Example,  must  be  from   a   stronger 

case,  208. 
Examples,  of  different  kinds,  in  Holy 

Scripture    that    each    Christian 

may  follow  as  he  is  able,  240. 
Excuses,  vain  and  inconsistent,  388. 
Execution,  horror  of  going  to,  356- 

57- 
Executioner,  abhorred,  347. 

Eyes,  the  right  way  of  employing 
them  in  God's  service,  233;  for- 
mation of,  354;  an  inlet  of  dan- 
ger, 370,  378;  must  care  for 
whole  body,  381. 

Ezckiel,  his  prayer  rejected,  327;  not 
on  his  own  account,  ib. ;  his  suf- 
ferings, ib.;  his  way  of  speak- 
ing* 37»- 

Faith,  alone  comprehends  mysteries, 
236;  is  perfected  by  doing  works 
like  Christ's  works,  ib.;  coupled 
with  conduct  everywhere  by  St. 
Paul,  264;  causes  solidity  when 
it  shuts  out  reasonings,  282;  in- 
stances of  the  need  of  it  in  things 
above  human  conception,  282- 
83;  implies  willingness  to  suffer, 
324;  proved  by  it,  ib. ;  strong,  of 
Thessalonians,  328;  what  could 
be  lacking  in,  341 ;  in  Mysteries, 
354;  needed  everywhere,  ib.; 
sails  of,  355;  a  breastplate,  363; 
how  strengthened,  363,  380  ; 
weakness  in,  367 ;  design  of  some 
to  subvert,  377;  weak,  shaken 
by  affliction,  strong  confirmed, 
381;  work  of,  is  patience,  385; 
not  given  to  all,  391. 

Faithful,  are  God's  riches,  385. 

Fans,  used  in  Holy  Eucharist,  205 
(note  1). 

Fasting,  foundation  of  chastity,  378; 
and  prayer,  not  work  of  hands, 

394- 
Fate,  a  cruel  doctrine,  269;  believed 

only  by  those  that  defined  Pleas- 
ure the  "  end  "  and  did  not  love 
Virtue,  ib. 


Father,  name  of  The,  enough  to  show 
His  priority,  213;  we  stand  be- 
fore, when  judged  by  Christ,  342; 
Christ  came  in  the  name  of,  389. 

Father,  St.  Chrvsostom  feels  as  a, 
391 ;  is  to  many  in  the  spirit,  392; 
even  to  those  baptized  by  others, 
ib. ;  all  Christians  at  first  as  un- 
der one,  396. 

Fathers,  duty  of,  to  their  children, 
304;  reward  children  for  virtue 
as  pleasing  them,  332;  should 
keep  sons  in  chastity,  346;  good 
children  meet,  356;  neglect  edu- 
cation of  sons,  359;  have  to  an- 
noy their  sons,  366;  but  can  do 
so  unresisted,  ib. ;  relation  of,  to 
sons,  why  appointed,  369;  even 
as  such  have  claims  on  children, 
372;  would  not  lose  their  chil- 
dren, though  burdened,  392. 

Fathers,  old,  wait  for  us,  356. 

Fault,  to  be  spoken  of  to  the  persons 
concerned,  392. 

Favorers,  312. 

Favor,  of  God.     See  Grace,  380. 

Fear  of  God  is  better  than  all  things, 
197;  not  so  powerful  as  shame 
to  bring  us  to  right  tone,  201 ;  a 
means  of  softening  the  mind,  212; 
needful  for  setting  a  high  exam- 
ple, 219;  in  achieving  temporal, 
much  more  spiritual  matters,  ib.  : 
produced  by  remembrance  of 
God's  presence  everywhere,  ib.  ; 
should  not  cast  down  because 
God  works  with  man,  220;  of 
man  often  more  persuasive  than 
fear  of  hell,  226. 

Fear,  382;  if  early  learned,  not  soon 
effaced,  383-84;  we  should  hear 
with,  in  church,  388. 

Feast,  differences  between  a  Christian 
and  a  heathen,  262;  best  to  in- 
vite poor  to,  374. 

Feet,  how  to  use  them  in  God's  ser- 
vice, 233. 

"  Fellowship  in  the  Gospel,"  what  St. 
Paul  means  by  it,  185. 

Fig  tree,  what  it  grows  from,  353. 

Fire,  appointed  for  avaricious,  21 1; 
see  river  of,  365;  thought  of, 
good,  382;  makes  riddance  of 
thorns,  387;  kills  small  insects 
far  off,  389. 

Fiery  furnace,  type  of  the  Resurrec- 
tion, 283. 

Firstborn,  of  every  creature,  its  mean- 
ing, 270;  another  meaning,  271 ; 
from  the  dead,  352. 

Flattery,  not  humility,  is  shown  by 
courting  for  the  things  of  this 
life,  206. 

Fleetness,  should  not  make  men 
proud,  217. 

Flesh,  the,  hath  been  honored  by  God, 
was  dishonored  bv  the  false  teach- 
ers  of  the  Colossians,  289;  of 
Christ,  deniers  of,  352. 

Folly,  not  so  bad  as  haughtiness,  217; 
all  sin  so  called;  contrast  be- 
tween it  and  wisdom,  300. 

Forbearance,  of  God,  384. 

Forgive,  not  to,  cause  of  greater  harm 


574     HOMILIES  ON  PHILIPPIANS,  COLOSSIANS,  THKSSALONIANS. 


to  oneself,  202;  we  should,  like 
Joseph,  343;  while  the  heart  is 
warm,  ib.;  to,  a  means  of  par- 
don, ib. 

Forgiveness,  our  own,  increased  by 
warning  others  of  like  sins,  268- 
69;  of  what  character  it  should 
be,  295 ;  and  is  nothing  without 
love,  ib. 

Form,  in  a  simple  being,  implies  one 
substance,  209;  does  not  mean 
"work"  of  a  servant,  but  real 
humanity,  214. 

Fornication,  its  bad  effects  on  man's 
nature,  248;  opposed  to  love, 
342;  to  be  shunned  for  sanctifica- 
tion,  344;  those  who  commit,  are 
like  filthy  swine,  ib.;  worst  in 
the  married,  345 ;  all,  forbidden, 
ib. ;  the  young  to  be  kept  from, 
345 ;  early,  makes  bad  husbands, 
346;  twenty-three  thousand  slain 
for  it,  358 ;  law  against,  then  new 
to  them,  ib.  ;  quenches  the  Spirit, 
370;  never  satisfies,  379;  how 
corrected,  396. 

Free  will  (see  /FiV/),  220,  362. 

Friend,  a  faithful,  how  good,  330; 
times  and  places  loved  for,  331 ; 
loves  to  be  indebted,  ib. ;  and  to 
have  his  friend  so,  ib. ;  Christ  is 
the,  of  man,  390. 

Friendship,  of  many,  brings  hurt,  189; 
many  kinds  of  friendship,  259; 
it  is  a  cold  kind  that  comes  of 
giving  great  feasts,  263 ;  become 
rare,  330;  examples  of,  in  first 
Christians,  ib. ;  rewarded  by  God, 

332. 
Fullness,  means  Godhead,  272. 

Funeral,  sight  of,  humbling,  379. 

Gain,  loss  made  a,  337;  not  to  be 
sought  from  loss  of  others,  370; 
Heavenly,  to  be  desired  without 
limit,  ib. 

Gains,  dishonest,  how  to  be  rid  of, 
369;  example  of  Zaccheus,  ib.; 
little,  great  covetousness  shown 
in  seeking,  370. 

Galatians,  return  to  observance  of  the 
law,  198;  quench  the  Spirit,  370. 

Garment,  God  gives  a  glorious,  350; 
Joseph's,  rather  showed  him  in- 
nocent, 380;  wedding,  he  that 
had  not,  cast  out,  385. 

Garments,  stores  of,  no  real  gain  to 
the  possessors,  232. 

Gaza,  country  beyond,  357. 

General,  specially  attacked  in  war, 
391 ;   all  succor  him,  ib. 

Generation,  of  Christ,  greater  mys- 
tery than  his  Resurrection,  236; 
can  be  comprehended  only  by 
faith,  not  reason,  ib.  (see  Resur- 
rcctioii)\  spiritual,  type  of  the 
Son's  eternal  generation,  283. 

Gentiles,  once  were  "  dogs,"  but  the 
Jews  had  now  taken  their  place, 
"230. 

Gifts,  God's,  to  be  used  in  His  praise, 
233;  not  what  withheld  Anti- 
christ, 381 ;  for  they  had  long 
ceased,  ib. 


Glory,  not  to  be  obtained,  except  by 
fleeing  from  it,  217;  of  God  to 
impart  good,  385;  of  suffering 
for  Christ,  ib. ;  great,  of  glorify- 
ing God,  ib. 

Glorying,  of  St.  Paul  in  his  converts, 

381. 
God,  everywhere  called  great  in  the 
Scriptures,  207;  all  mankind  ac- 
knowledge Him  to  be  just,  212; 
His  glory  does  not  consist  in 
man's  worship,  215-16;  when 
the  Son  is  honored  or  dishonored 
He  is,  216;  everywhere  present, 
219;  His  longsuffe ring  motive  for 
•repentance,  ib.;  works  with  man 
only  when  he  has  a  good  will  to 
work,  not  to  make  him  careless, 
220;  gives  the  desire  and  fulfill- 
ment of  the  good  works,  ib.;  His 
working  with  man  does  not  take 
away  his  free-will,  ib. ;  men  flee 
from  Him  by  sin,  237;  to  know 
His  will  spiritual  wisdom  is  need- 
ful, 264;  to  know  His  essence, 
continual  prayers,  ib.;  longsuf- 
fe ring  is  said  of  Him,  patience 
never,  265;  His  love  known  by 
seeing  His  Son  delivered  up,  ib.  ; 
His  gifts  cannot  be  used  unless 
He  gives  strength,  ib. ;  does  not 
do  things  on  a  sudden,  but  with 
consideration  of  man's  weak- 
ness, 277;  the  Church  in  Him, 
224;  sinners  not  so,  ib.;  raised 
up  Christ,  328;  His  trusting  im- 
plies approval,  329;  acts  like  a 
friend  in  dissembling  claims,  331 ; 
promises  His  Son  as  reward  for 
Abraham,  ib.;  rewards  us  for 
what  is  good  for  us,  332;  well- 
doing his  gift,  341;  true  virtue 
that  in  His  sight,  342;  is  insulted 
by  uncleanness,  and  avenges, 
345;  teaches  love  of  brethren, 
348;  blasphemed  through  idlers, 
ib.;  jealous  of  our  trusting  in 
man,  350;  takes  away  what  we 
prefer  to  him,  ib.;  protects  the 
widow,  ib.;  and  the  fatherless, 
351;  His  undeserved  goodness, 
.  350;  speaks  more  kindly  than  a 
husband,  351;  nature  of,  inscru- 
table, 354;  His  power  ends  diffi- 
culty, ib.;  seen  in  a  manner  by 
prophets,  355;  spoke  to  St.  Paul, 
ib.;  Resurrection  His  work,  356; 
will  do  what  He  threatens,  357; 
did  so  to  old  world,  and  to  Sod- 
om, ib. ;  must  punish  if  impartial, 
359;  infinite  goodness  of,  363; 
mercy  of,  to  the  merciful,  365; 
image  of,  not  to  be  insulted,  368; 
salvation  of,  His  purpose,  372; 
admits  the  poor  to  His  courts, 
374;  not  knowing,  the  beginning 
of  pride,  378;  knowing,  cures 
pride,  379;  St.  Paul  invokes  fa- 
vor of,  380;  favor  of,  to  Joseph, 
ib. ;  praise  due  to,  for  our  good 
actions,  ib. ;  justice  of,  to  be  seen 
at  last,  381 ;  must  punish  on  His 
own  account,  382;  the  King 
most  to  be  feared,  ib. ;  forbears, 


that  we  may  prepare,  384 ;  does  all 
His  part  to  save  us,  ib.;  punish- 
ment of  those  who  know  not,  384; 
coming  of,  in  itself  implies  ven- 
geance, 385;  it  is  light  to  some, 
darkness  to  others,  ib.  ;  glorified 
in  His  saints,  ib. ;  the  faithful 
His  riches,  ib. ;  imparting  good, 
His  glory,  ib.;  gratification  or 
persuasion  of,  ib.;  speaks  in 
Church  lessons,  387 ;  letters  from, 
ib.;  all  good  ascribed  to,  390; 
care  of,  a  pledge,  ib.  ;  we  concur 
with,  in  our  establishing,  ib.  ;  de- 
sires united  prayers,  391 ;  all  de- 
pends on,  393;  love  of,  how  to 
show,  ib. 

Gomorrah,  358. 

Good,  to  be  returned  for  evil,  367; 
of  Heaven,  may  be  desired  with- 
out limit,  370. 

Goodness,  of  God,  384-85. 

Goods,  only  good  when  men  do  good 
with  them,  232;  spoiling  of,  349; 
cruelly  seized,  369. 

Good-will,  in  man,  necessary  to  God's 
working,  186. 

Good  works,  done  with  bad  motives, 
not  good,  and  get  a  punishment, 
190;  performance  of  them  makes 
like  to  God,  206;  the  desire  of, 
and  fulfillment  comes  from  God, 
220. 

Gospel,  to  share  in  its  troubles  is  a 
blessedness,  186-87;  its  progress 
throughout  the  world,  259;  mys- 
tery of,  hidden  in  Christ,  279; 
only  made  manifest  now  to  the 
Saints,  280;  in  what  its  great 
mystery  consists,  ib.  ;  proved  di- 
vine by  persecution,  324,  329; 
preached  for  no  ill  purpose,  ib. ; 
a  great  gift,  but  easy  to  give,  330; 
to  be  preached  to  all  nations  he- 
fore  Christ  comes,  378. 

Grace,  those  are  made  partakers  of 
it  who  partake  of  the  sufferings 
of  their  ministers,  186;  not  given 
in  Job's  time,  222;  given  in  bap- 
tism, quenched  by  sin,  238 ; 
works  with  God's  ministers, 
though  unworthy,  274;  some 
quench,  some  improve,  370; 
works  by  unworthy  ministers, 
371 ;  prayer  for,  in  Epistles,  380; 
consolation  from,  ib. ;  to  endure 
trials,  385 ;  a  pledge  for  the  fu- 
ture, 390;  has  made  many  lay- 
men better  than  rulers,  391. 

Graciousness,  towards  those  that  op- 
pose the  truth,  must  not  lapse 
into  indifferentism,  309. 

Grapestone,    wonderful    growth    of, 

354- 
Grass,  growth  of  barren,  and  mystery, 

354. 
Greeks.     See  Heathens. 

Greeks,  how  to  argue  with  them, 
about  Christianity,  269;  still  in 
an  imperfect,  state,  from  their 
own  listlessness,  277;  how  to 
answer  their  question,  "why 
Christ  came  at  this  time,"  ib. 

Gregory,   St.   Nazianzcn,   sermon  of. 


HOMILIES  ON  PHIL1PPIANS,  COLOSSIANS,  THESSALONIANS.     575 


against  deferring  baptism,  361 
(note  3). 

Gridiron,  an  instrument  of  martyr- 
dom, 336. 

Grief,  to  be  shown  for  sinners  living, 
as  well  as  when  dying,  196;  but 
with  secret,  not  open,  sorrow,  ib. ; 
for  sinners,  tends  to  joy,  and  is 
evidence  of  a  mind  devoted  to 
God,  255;  profitable  to  those 
that  grieve,  as  leading  them  to 
repent  for  their  own  sins,  ib. 

Guests,  poor,  are  the  best,  374;  great 
and  rich,  are  like  masters,  ib. 

Hades,  most  said  to  be  punished  in, 

359- 
Hadrian.     See  Adrian. 

Ham,  cursed  through  want  of  love, 

342. 
Hand,  of  God,  is  strong,  and  able  to 

support  men,  209. 
Hands,  the  right  way  of  using  them 

in  God's  service,  233. 
Hand-writing,    St.     Paul's    cause   of 

emotion  to  the  Colossians,  314. 
Hardships,  present  lot  of  Christians, 

329. 
Harlot,  ways  of,   pleasant    to    loose 

minds,  346;  dishonor  of  being 
united  to,  347;  hired  for  wed- 
ding-feasts, 317;  to  do  so  like 
mixing  vinegar  with  wine,  318. 

Haughtiness.     See  Pride,  204. 

Head  of  a  family  should  be  its 
teacher,  397 ;  husband  is,  of  wife, 
ib. ;  office  of,  in  the  ImmIv,  ib. 

Health,  good,  should  not  make  men 
proud,  217. 

Hearing,  quick,  should  not  make  men 
proud,  217. 

Heart,  the  source  of  good  and  evil, 

342. 

Heathens,  sometimes  chaste,  347; 
grief  at  deaths  suitable  to,  349; 
answers  to,  about  Resurrection, 
353;  no  better  answer  by  know- 
ing time  of  Consummation,  360; 
asked  when  should  be  Resurrec- 
tion, 361 ;  shame  they  should  see 
Christians  despise  adjuration, 
372;   use  of  their  histories,  379. 

Heaven,  compared  to  palaces,  351; 
orphans  shine  in,  ib. ;  not  to  be 
attained  with  self-indulgence, 
364;  way  to,  beset  by  demons, 
371 ;   opened  in  description,  382. 

Hell,  appointed  for  avaricious,  212 
(see  Avarice} ;  a  warning  to  bad 
men,  ib.;  though  intolerable,  yet 
not  equal  to  the  pain  of  being 
dishonored  at  the  Judgment, 
245;  deluge  a  proof  of,  357; 
Sodom  a  proof  of,  ib.;  not 
known  to  ancients,  358;  thought 
of,  implanted  in  us  for  good,  359, 
382;  St.  Chrysostom  in  fear  of, 
359;  sons  of,  362,  366;  thought 
of,  makes  trouble  seem  nothing, 
382;  should  be  talked  of,  382- 
83;  thought  of,  keep  from  fall- 
ing into  it,  383;  he  that  will  not 
hear  of,  not  ready  for  persecu- 
tion,  ib. ;  St.   Paul    would    have 


borne  for  God's  will,  ib. ;  fear  of, 
guides  the  soul,  384;  rich  man 
would  have  escaped  had  he 
feared,  ib. ;  some  think  mild  and 
temporary,  384;  those  refuted,  ib. 
Helmet,  spiritual,  preserves    reason, 

Heretics,  do  great  and  good  works, 
but  without  a  reward,  191 ;  their 
way  of  interpreting, "  He  thought 
it  not  robbery,"  212;  say  Christ 
was  humbled  not  as  He  is  Man, 
215;  that  "Name"  me&nsglory, 
*  ib.;  and  that  God's  glory  con- 
sisted in  that  all  worship  I  lim, 
ib. ;  their  notions  of  God  false, 
216;  the  wisdom  of  the  Spirit 
leads  them  to  undertake  the 
tight  that  they  may  fail,  234; 
blot  out  words  of  Scripture  when 
against  them,  ib. ;  entrapped  by 
St.  Paul's  words  on  the  Law,  ib. 

Hezekiah,  heard,  and  why,  326;  tri- 
umphed over  king  of  Assyria  by 
prayer,  391. 

History,  proves  vanity  of  earthly 
things,  379. 

Holiness,  chastity  specially  called, 
342;   implies  all  virtues,  ib. 

Homily,  unnecessary,  388. 

Hope,  source  of  all  good,  194;  hel- 
met of,  363;  an  anchor,  377; 
false  in  the  notion  that  Hell  is 
temporary,  384;  good,  supports 
the  soul,  390. 

Holy  Spirit,  His  words  are  as  a  two- 
edged  sword  in  a  phalanx,  206; 
given  in  Baptism,  237. 

Holy  Scriptures,  apply  human  words 
to  God,  252. 

Honor,  takes  place  between  a  greater 
and  a  lesser,  209. 

Horse  race,  206. 

Horse,  soul  compared  to,  384. 

Hospitality,  to  the  poor,  has  a  reward 
at  the  Judgment,  262;  of  Abra- 
ham, 369;   to  the  poor,  374. 

House,  a,  a  memorial  of  covetous- 
ness,  369. 

Houses,  how  to  use  them  in  serving 
God,  233;  fallen,  of  the  great, 
an  admonition,  379. 

Human  nature,  imperfect,  192. 

Humility,  the  greatest  safety  for  dis- 
ciples against  their  enemies,  182; 
Joseph's,  204;  Christ's  cause  of 
men's  working  greater  deeds  than 
Himself,  205;  not  adulation  or 
meanness,  ib.;  shown  in  David, 
ib.;  examples  of,  ib.;  is  shown 
when  one  shows  respect  to 
another,  for  things  pleasing  to 
God,  206;  taught  by  examples 
of  Christ,  ib. ;  must  be  an  empty- 
ing one's  self  from  free  choice, 
213;  what  true  humbleminded- 
ness  is,  20S;  always  a  way  to  be 
exalted,  216;  the  good  things 
that  spring  from  it,  217;  arises 
from  considering  our  own  fail- 
ings, 229. 

Hunger,  should  be  relieved,  368;  to 
perish  by  no  disgrace,  ib.;  to 
make  others  do  so,  a  crime,  ib. 


Husband,  duty  of,  to  his  wife,  304; 
bound  to  keep  to  his  wife  alone, 
as  she  to  him,  345;  not  to  be 
idolized,  350;  what  comes  of  a, 
ib.;  should  teach  by  example, 
396  (and  see  Wife);  head  of 
the  wife,  397;  his  obligations  to 
her,  ib.;  should  take  spiritual 
food,  like  a  swallow,  to  the  nest, 
ib. 

Husband  and  wife,  make  but  one 
man,  318;  what  kind  of  one 
parents  should  seek  for  their 
daughters,  320. 

Husbandman,  desires  to  see  his  land 
when  fruitful,  341;  must  attend 
to  the  seed  sown,  386;  natural, 
has  to  do  with  lifeless  earth,  ib.  ; 
not  so  spiritual,  387;  he  must 
root  out  thorns,  ib. 

Hymns,  diviner  things  than  psalms, 
301-02;  that  of  the  Angels 
which  the  faithful  know,  302; 
when  a  person  is  about  his  busi- 
ness, he  may  sing  a  hymn  in  his 
heart,  ib. 

Idleness,  mischief  of,  348;  of  Chris- 
tians is  an  offense  to  heathe/is, 
ib. 

If,  used  for  because,  as  assuming  cer- 
tainty, 382. 

Ignorance,  often  cause  of  sorrow,  352. 

Illumination.     See  Baptism. 

Images,  set  up  in  houses  of  rich,  232. 

Image,  the,  why  it  is  not  said  of  an 
Angel,  yet  is  of  a  man,  270. 

Image,  of  God,  in  man,  368;  of  a 
king,  not  safe  to  insult,  ib. ;  im- 
pressed on  wax  while  warm,  383. 

In,  said  of  the  Son  as  of  the  Father, 
324;  in  Jesus,  353;  used  for 
through,  385,  390. 

Incarnation,  proved  real  by  Christ's 
death,  352;  unforeseen,  356.  See 
Flesh. 

Indolence,  cause  of  men's  believing 
in  fate,  269. 

Industry,  benefit  of,  348. 

Initiated,  know  the  order  of  service. 

Injustice,  injures  the  doer  of  it  most, 
249. 

Insult,  not  bearing,  a  weakness,  367 ; 
to  a  man  is  to  Christ,  368;  not 
returning,  a  lesson,  396. 

Intercession.     Sec  Prayer. 

Intercessions,  good  for  all,  197. 

Interpretation,  mystical,  352. 

Inworking,  of  God,  requires  good- 
will in  man,  186. 

Iron.     See  Soul,  212. 

Israel,  conquered  thirty-two  kings  by 
prayer,  391. 

Jacob,  prayer  of,  326;  an  example  to 
pastors,  332;  had  children,  yet 
not  covetous,  369;  wronged  by 
Laban,  but  never  defrauded  him, 
ib. 

Jacob's  ladder,  type  of  the  Cross,  283 ; 
he  deceived  his  father,  bv  an 
economy,  285. 

Jailor,  his  business  full  of  wickedness, 


576     HOMILIES  ON  PHILIPPIANS,  COLOSSIANS,  THESSALONIANS. 


182;  his  sudden  conversion,  and 
that  of  all  his  familv,  ib. 

Japheth  and  Shem,  blessed  for  loving 
their  father,  342. 

Jeremiah,  his  prayer  rejected,  327; 
his  way  of  speaking,  371. 

Jerusalem,  temple  at,  not  the  only 
seat  of  Antichrist,  386;  above, 
our  Mother,  398. 

Jason,  made  to  give  security,  324. 

Jesus,  called  Justus,  probably  a  Corin- 
thian, 310;  to  sleep  in,  what, 
352  (note  4),  353. 

Jews,  corrupt  Christianity  under  a 
show,  182;  an  example  with  what 
mind  men  should  give  to  Priests, 
226;  still  in  an  imperfect  state 
from  excess  of  listlessness,  277; 
were  as  children  under  Moses, 
ib.  ;  the  wilderness  was  a  school 
to  them,  278;  Egypt  as  the  tab- 
let on  which  their  letters  were 
written,  ib.;  like  children  in 
wishing  to  return  to  Egypt,  ib. ; 
their  doctrines  those  of  children, 
ib. ;  were  humored  in  their  pas- 
sions like  children,  ib. ;  in  all 
respects  imperfect  like  children, 
•  279»  prayer  not  heard  for,  326; 
persecutors  of  Christ  and  His 
Church,  333;  and  that  not  for 
truth's  sake,  ib.;  slew  prophets 
whose  books  they  use,  ib.;  ene- 
mies of  all  men,  ib. ;  wrath 
on   them,  334;    their  sufferings, 

358. 
Job,  heard  for  his  friends,  326;    he 

could  not  have  saved  the  Jews, 
ib.;  his  patience  better  than 
almsgiving,  337;  wrestled  with 
Satan,  ib.;  tried  through  his 
wife,  340;  mourned  little  for 
his  children  from  love  to  God, 
350;  thankful  in  all  circum- 
stances, 367;  prayers  of,  for  his 
children,  392 ;  prayer  of,  for  his 
sons,  not  for  temporal  blessings, 
but  for  pardon  of  sin,  197;  Satan 
attacked  his  soul  to  make  him 
more  approved,  210;  an  example 
of  suffering  without  murmuring, 
221 ;  the  grievousness  of  his 
sickness,  ib. ;  and  his  state  worse 
than  ours,  because  it  was  before 
the  gift  of  grace,  and  the  tidings 
of  the  Resurrection,  222;  gave 
thanks  in  his  pain,  265. 

John,  St.,  the  Baptist,  example  of 
courage,  205;  came  in  spirit  and 
power  of  Elias,  389. 

Jonas,  type  of  the  Resurrection, 
2X2-83. 

Jordan,  plain  of,  like  Paradise,  357; 
now  burnt  and  desolate,  ib. 

Joseph,  his  example  shows  us  how 
we  may  overcome  the  pride  that 
comes  from  our  wisdom,  204; 
contrast  between  him  and  the 
Egyptian  woman,  307;  how 
tempted  by  his  mistress,  342-43; 
firm,  yet  moved  by  tears,  343; 
forbore  revenge,  ib.;  an  instance 
of  the  power  of  grace,  380;  how 
hardly  treated,  ib. 


Joseph  us,  records  punishment  of  the 
Jews,  358. 

Joy  to  be  shown  for  just,  dead  as  well 
as  living,  196;  of  the  world  soon 
over,  and  bringeth  grief,  254; 
spiritual  in  affliction,  325;  on 
suffering  enables  to  render  good 
for  evil,  367. 

Judaea,  Churches  of,  persecuted,  324, 
33 3t  34 1  >  Christians  of,  lost  their 
goods,  349. 

Judaizing  Teachers,  why  called  dogs, 
no  longer  children,  230. 

Judas,  the  traitor,  fell,  from  his  love 
of  money,  210;  his  hardness  of 
heart,  21 1 ;  his  fall  told  by  all 
the  Evangelists,  that  we  may 
dread  it,  ib. 

Judgment,  to  be  dishonored  in  the, 
worse  than  pain  of  hell,  245; 
the  nearness  of  it,  a  consolation 
to  the  good,  244;  Day  of,  is 
night  and  winter  to  sinners,  day 
to  the  just,  267;  Christian  who 
disbelieves  it  cannot  be  called  a 
Christian,  268;  none  disbelieve 
it,  269;  to  disbelieve  it  not  rea- 
sonable, 269-70;  commencement 
°f»  355  J  no*  disproved  by  pros- 
perity of  wicked,  362;  sudden- 
ness of,  ib. ;  terrors  of,  to  scorners, 
365;  deceivers  proclaimed  at 
hand  to  induce  disappointment, 
377;  just,  of  God,  382 ;  children 
to  be  taught  about,  383;  future, 
less  talked  of  than  earthly,  384; 
and  less  prepared  for,  ib.;  de- 
layed that  we  may  repent,  ib. 

Justice,  its  good  effects,  161. 

Kindness,  softens  an  enemy,  343. 

King,  Eternal,  fear  of,  382;  honor 
of  meeting,  355;  reprieve  from, 
356;  poor  admitted  with,  to 
Christ's  Table,  374;  none  Chris- 
tian at  first,  381;  fear  of,  keeps 
from  much  evil,  382;  letters  of, 
read  in  churches,  387. 

Kings,  not  free  from  affliction,  253; 
instances  to  show  this,  254;  their 
kingdom  not  like  the  kingdom 
of  heaven,  ib.;  use  the  bees' 
work,  368;  Israel  conquered,  32; 
by  prayer,  391. 

Kingdom  of  God,  worth  bearing  all 
for,  333, 382;  of  heaven,  obtained 
through  Priests,  367. 

Kiss,  of  charity,  given  through  others, 

372. 
Knowledge,     brings     condemnation 
without  practice,   206;    without 
action,  leads  to  punishment,  265. 

I^abor,  in  vain,  340;  of  hands  recom- 
mended, 348;  spiritual,  made  an 
excuse  for  idleness,  ib. 

Laity,  duty  of,  towards  priests,  366; 
have  liberties  that  priests  have 
not,  ib.;  equal  in  chief  benefits, 
392. 

Lamb,  priest  and  people  partake  of 
one,  392. 

Lamp,  of  the  Spirit,  not  to  be 
quenched,  370 ;   robbers  first  put 


out,  371 ;  bright,  admits  to  bride- 
chamber,  372;   lighted,  can  light 
others,  396. 
Land,  how  to  use  it  in  serving  God, 

233. 
Laodicea,  epistle  from,  probably  writ- 
ten   from    thence   to   St.    Paul, 

3H- 
Laughter,  arising  from  present  things 

is  condemned  by  Christ,  246;  at 

admonition,  miserable,  367. 

Law,  the,  not  is  loss,  but  is  counted 
loss  for  Christ,  235 ;  like  a  bridge 
to  the  Gospel,  ib.;  or  as  a  man 
counts  silver  when  he  found  gold, 
ib. ;  it  is  loss  by  comparison,  ib.  ; 
good  as  the  chaff  is  to  the  corn, 
ib.;  not  absolutely  loss,  but  for 
Christ,  ib.;  but  a  doctrine  of 
men,  now  the  time  (of  Christ) 
is  come,  289. 

Laws,  father's  authority  upheld  by, 
366;  fear  of,  hinders  many  bad 
actions,  382;  hurt  not  those  who 
fear  them,  383. 

Law-suits,  men  talk  much  of,  384; 
and  take  pains  about,  ib. 

Laying  on,  of  hands  is  through  the 
cross,  242. 

Lazarus,  raising  of,  356;  rich  man 
despised,  374;  needed  his  help 
afterwards,  ib. 

Leopard,  Daniel's  vision  of,  328. 

Letter,    forged    as    from    St.     Paul, 

377- 
Letters,  from  heaven,  387;   of  kings, 

read  in  church,  ib. 

Life,  is  of  several  kinds,  195;  what  it 
is  not  to  live  this  present  life,  ib. ; 
this  present,  worth  living  if  we 
live  in  faith,  196;  not  life  if  it 
has  no  fruit,  ib. ;  good  or  bad  as 
we  make  it,  ib.;  the  present  a 
good  state,  225;  future  is  better 
than  a  good  state,  ib. ;  to  risk  it 
for  saints  is  martyrdom,  226; 
cannot  be  without  pain,  254;  the 
present,  compared  to  a  nest  of 
mire  and  sticks,  267;  the  vir- 
tuous, a  good  thing,  280;  the 
present,  should  lie  no  cause  of 
care  to  a  Christian,  290. 

Light,  children  of,  362. 

Lightning,  coming  of  Christ,  evident 
as,  378. 

Like-mindedness,  not  so  great  as  to 
be  of  one  mind,  203. 

Likeness  of  man  said  of  Christ,  be- 
cause he  was  not  equal  in  every- 
thing to  man,  214. 

Listlessness,  arises  from  looking  at 
the  faults  of  others,  229;  puts 
Christians  out  of  the  state  of 
grace,  276. 

Littlemindedness,  as   bad    as    sloth, 

367- 
Longsuffering,    is    towards   one  that 

we  can  requite,  264. 

Loss  of  money,  made  a  gain  by  pa- 
tience, 337;  relieved  by  giving 
alms,  338. 

Lot,  his  choice  proves  fertility  of 
plain  of  Jordan,  357;  did  not 
save   Sodom,    358;    his   love  to 


HOMILIES  ON  PHILIPPIANS,  COLOSSIANS,  THESSALONIANS.     577 


God,  ib.;  Abraham  bore  wrong 
from,  369. 

l/>ve,  spiritual,  a  support  in  great 
trials,  186;  it  was  as  a  dew  to 
the  holy  children,  ib. ;  impossible 
to  convey  St.  Paul's  in  words, 
188;  is  unbounded,  189;  indis- 
criminate, leads  to  weak  friend- 
#  ships,  and  to  receiving  spurious 
doctrines,  and  makes  to  stumble, 
ib. ;  it  should  have  respect  to 
what  is  profitable,  with  under- 
standing, ib. ;  maintained  by  be- 
lievers standing  in  one  mind, 
199;  to  love  one  another  the 
best  return  for  spiritual  benefits, 
203;  it  is  more  to  St.  Paul  than 
to  deliver  him  from  dangers,  ib. ; 
greater  than  like-mindedness, 
ib. ;  how  much  is  meant  by  one- 
ness of  mind,  ib.;  shown  for 
others  by  wrestling  in  spirit  for 
them,  224;  increased  by  troubles 
from  without,  253;  spiritual  love 
alone  steadfast,  259;  and  like  a 
queen  over  other  friendships,  ib. ; 
instanced  in  St.  Paul  and  Moses, 
ib. ;  is  as  the  bond  or  root,  with- 
out which  there  can  be  no  per- 
fection, 295;  is  more  requisite 
from  the  governing  to  the  gov- 
erned than  from  the  governed  to 
the  governing,  304;  puts  down 
envy,  313;  labor  of,  324;  true, 
would  give  the  soul,  330;  pos- 
sible, §ince  Christ  bids,  331; 
want  of,  causes  heresies,  ib. ;  love 
dissembles  favors,  ib.;  perpetu- 
ates heathenism,  ib. ;  is  indescrib- 
able, as  a  foreign  plant,  ib. ;  needs 
help  of  presence,  334;  should 
extend  to  all,  341,  348,  380; 
makes  unblamable,  342;  saints 
pleased  God  by,  ib. ;  fire  of,  con- 
sumes all  sin,  ib.;  Cain  wanted, 
ib. ;  overcame  St.  Paul,  ib. ;  why 
mentioned  in  passing,  348;  God 
teaches,  ib.;  of  God  to  man, 
35 1;  a  breastplate,  363;  how  to 
strengthen,  ib.;  overcomes  dis- 
tance, 372;  weak,  shaken  by 
affliction,  strong,  confirmed,  380- 
81 ;  should  be  equally  balanced, 
381 ;  danger  of  di vision  in,  ib.  ; 
must  be  for  God's  sake,  ib.;  of 
God,  hindered  by  many  things, 
393;  toward  God  before  our- 
selves, implies  before  money  too, 
ib. 

Love  of  money.     See  Wealth. 

Lowliness,  corrects  vainglory,  203; 
its  power  when  found  in  two  per- 
sons, 204;  shown  in  a  broken 
heart,  ib.;  of  mind,  217. 

Lust,  to  be  cut  off,  344;  and  its  occa- 
sions, 345;  a  drunkenness,  362; 
insatiable,  379;  cured  by  thought 
of  hell-fire,  ib. 

Luxury,  gives  birth  to  affliction  and 
pain,  255;  not  to  be  envied,  364; 
talk  of,  hurtful,  384. 

Macedonia,  country  of  the  Philippians, 
181 ;  St.  Paul's  cultured  field,  341 . 


Macedonians,  once  as  renowned  as 
the  Romans,  328;  joined  with 
others  in  St.  Paul's  crown,  334; 
empire  of,  overthrown  by  Ro- 
mans, 328,  389. 

Madness,  vice  worse  than,  364. 

Magistrates,  scourge  St.  Paul  more 
from  impulse  than  wickedness, 
182. 

Mammon,  contradicts  Christ's  com- 
mands, 211;  hell  and  river  of 
fire  because  of  it,  212;  turns 
from  love  of  God,  393. 

Man,  is  superior  to  brutes  only  through 
religion  and  virtue,  218;  and  in 
things  that  concern  the  soul,  ib. ; 
may  become  an  angel  by  practice 
of  virtue,  ib. ;  not  worthy  of  the 
grace  of  God,  266;  greatness  of 
his  deliverance  set  forth,  ib. ;  and 
of  his  own  will  under  the  power 
of  darkness,  275;  could  be  per- 
suaded to  return  to  God  only  by 
Christ,  ib. ;  can  continue  in  this 
state  only  by  continuing  to  have 
faith  and  hope  in  Christ,  276; 
how  he  is  changed  by  the  Gospel, 
276;  "the  old  man"  does  not 
mean  the  substance  .of  flesh,  but 
the  bad  moral  choice,  294;  the 
new  man  is  ever  advancing  to 
greater  youthfulness,  295;  man 
imperfect  when  alone,  318. 

Manes,  206. 

Manichees,  294  (note  5),  352  (note  2). 

Mansions,  splendid,  are  a  loss,  232. 

Marcellus,  of  Galatia,  206;  in  what 
way  heretical,  207 ;  how  his 
heresy  falls  before  St.  Paul's 
text,  ib. 

Marcion,  of  Pontius,  206;  in  what 
way  heretical,  207. 

Marcionites,  their  heresy  of  our  Lord 
being  a  phantom  overturned,  213, 
352  (note  2). 

Marriage,  early  recommended,  346; 
of  chaste  persons  blessed,  ib. ; 
object  of,  ib. ;  second,  of  widows, 
349;  feast  at,  occasions  envy  and 
discontent,  384. 

Marriages,  satanical  performances  at, 
378;  how  marriage  is  a  mystery, 
ib. ,  marriage  union  really  a  pure 
thing,  dishonored  from  man's 
wickedness,  319;  how  it  is  a 
mystery  of  the  Church,  ib.;  a 
satanic  pomp  in,  without  signifi- 
cancy,  320;  pleasure  will  follow 
from  celebration  of  a  marriage 
in  an  orderly  way,  ib.;  melan- 
choly from  such  as  then  were 
common,  ib. ;  the  right  way  to 
keep  the  wedding  feast,  ib. 

Martyrdom,  is  attained  by  lesser  things 
more  than  by  great,  226;  not 
now  usual,  336;  may  still  be 
imitated,  337. 

Masters,  duty  of,  to  servants,  305. 

Medicine,  bitter,  useful,  360;  to  be 
sweetened,  337. 

Memorial,  a  great  house  a,  of  covet- 
ousness,  369. 

Memory  of  good  deeds  makes  men 
remiss  and  haughty,  238. 


Mercy,  works  of,  must  never  be  given 
up,  182;  should  be  worn  as  tokens 
about  the  necks  of  Christians, 
ib.;  a  means  to  convince  unbe- 
lievers, 183;  must  be  done  with 
caution  and  true  faith,  ib.;  can 
only  be  done  in  this  world,  ib. ; 
can  open  the  gates  of  heaven, 
183;  ofttimes  called  "righteous- 
ness," 189;  men  soon  led  to  it, 
no  good  in  our  nature  so  great 
as  it,  201;  in  the  nature  even 
of  the  fiercest,  ib.;    peculiar  to 

Eower,  ib. ;  the  world  established 
y  it,  ib. ;  most  pleasing  to  God, 
ib.;  priests,  kings,  and  prophets 
anointed  by  it,  ib.;  signified  by 
oil,  ib. ;  it  is  over  all  men  alike, 
ib.;  without  it  all  created  things 
would  perish,  ib. ;  cause  of  light 
to  men,  202;  to  be  merciful 
God's  true  character,  and  so 
man's,  ib.;  it  is  of  it  that  all 
things  are,  ib.;  it  delivers  from 
fire  of  hell,  ib. ;  comes  of  love, 
ib.;  without  man's  showing  it, 
he  shall  have  no  forgiveness,  ib.  ; 
must  be  shown  to  obtain  mercy, 
365 ;  where  none  the  Spirit  dwells 
not,  371. 

Metals,  abuse  of  precious,  through 
luxury,  292. 

Ministers  of  Christ  not  clothed  by 
miracle,  229;  allowed  to  be  in 
want  that  others  may  be  profited, 
ib. ;  though  unworthy,  have  God 
with  them,  274. 

Miracle,  standing,  of  fruits  of  Sodom, 

357. 
Miracles,  danger  of  men  being  hon- 
ored for,  339;  of  Antichrist,  386, 

389. 
Moderation,     binding    on     all,     not 

priests   only,   227;    reasons  why 

it  should   be   shown   to  enemies 

and  the  bad,  246. 

Money  sent  by  Philippians  to  St.  Paul 

at  Rome,  226;   to  be  employed 

in  God's  service,  233;    must  be 

despised  for  the   sake   of  God, 

393. 
Monks,  near  Antioch,  394  (note  2). 

Mortification,  as  necessary  as  it  is 
continually  to  rub  the  rust  off  a 
bright  statue,  294;  of  sin  in 
members  of  the  body  necessary, 
296-97. 

Moses,  a  schoolmaster  to  the  Jews, 
277;  his  intercession,  327;  would 
not  have  saved  Jews  at  last,  ib. ; 
seat  of,  366;  conquered  Amalek 
by  prayer,  391. 

Mother,  delights  in  her  cares,  392; 
her  pangs  before  birth,  spiritual 
parents'  lasting,  ib.;  heavenly 
Jerusalem  our,  398. 

Mothers  should  take  care  of  their 
own  characters,  because  their 
daughters  take  pattern  from  them, 
308-9. 

Motives,  temporal  weigh  with  most 
men,  348. 

Mourning,  house  of,  384. 

Mouth,  how  to  use  it  in  God's  ser- 


578     HOMILIES  ON  PHILIPPIANS,  COLOSSIANS,  THESSALONIANS. 


vice,  233;  door  of  our  lamp,  370; 
keep  shut  when  insulted,  ib. 

Murmuring,  an  art  of  Satan's  to  take 
away  reward  of  virtue,  220;  occa- 
sions stains,  ib.;  to  be  avoided 
at  all  times,  223. 

Mysteries,  Apostles  ordered  a  remem- 
brance to  be  made  of  the  dead 
in  them,  197;  the  mystery  of 
God  is  to  be  brought  to  Him  by 
His  Son,  280;  priest  makes  par- 
takers of,  367. 

Mystery,  must  be  confessed  some- 
where, 354. 

Name,  does  not  mean  glory,  215. 

"Name  of  our  Lord  Jesus,"  every- 
thing done  in  it  prospers,  302. 

Name  of  God,  the  great  power  of 
the,  303. 

Nature,  human,  may  be  looked  on  as 
one  continued  life  from  the  first 
to  the  present  time,  277. 

Necessity,  notion  of,  from  Satan, 
269-70. 

Nero,  emperor  when  Epistle  to  Phil- 
ippians  was  written,  186;  a  type 
of  Antichrist,  389. 

Night,  compared  to  a  caravan  of 
many  fountains,  192;  children 
of,  362. 

Ninevites,  escaped  because  they 
feared,  383. 

Noah,  type  of  the  Resurrection,  283; 
a  just  man,  326;  could  not  have 
saved  the  Jews,  ib. ;  his  sons' 
conduct,  342;  days  of,  like  the 
last,  357;  men  in  time  of,  per- 
ished from  not  fearing,  383. 

Number,  change  of,  in  speaking,  372 
(note  2). 

Obedience  to  others  does  not  make 
us  inferior  to  them,  215;  cause 
of  exaltation,  216;  the  duty  of 
the  wife  to  her  husband,  304. 

Oil,  a  type  of  God's  love  to  man,  201 ; 
hence  kings  and  priests  anointed 
with  it,  ib. ;  type  of  mercy  as  be- 
ing the  cause  of  light,  ib. ;  want 
of,  quenches  lamp,  371. 

Ointment,  the  Saints  are  like,  327. 

Oneness  of  mind,  the  force  of  it, 
203. 

Onesimus,  sent  by  St.  Paul  to  the 
Colossians,  310. 

Oppressors,  more  cruel  than  robbers, 
369;   poor  as  bad  as  rich,  370. 

Ornaments,  gold,  are  a  loss  to  the 
users,  232;  earthly  chains  to  bind 
sin  on,  and  strip  Christ  off,  308; 
love  of,  incites  vainglory,  and  is 
the  cause  of  many  evils,  ib. 

Orators,  record  vanity  of  human 
things,  379. 

Oratories,  373. 

Ornament,  danger  of,  338;  none  like 
gravity,  350;   spiritual,  351. 

Palaces,  splendid,  no  cause  for  pride, 
217;  none  like  heaven,  351; 
way  to,  borne  with,  though  nar- 
row, 364;  one  who  admits  to, 
loved  for  it,  367;  great  men  of 


the  world  found  at,  373;  churches 
the  real,  ib. 

Palasstra,  place  in  which  runners  in  a 
race  were  trained,  239. 

Palestine,  travelers  in,  called  to  wit- 
ness on  overthrow  of  Sodom,  357 ; 
sufferings  of  the  Jews  in,  358. 

Paradise,  plain  of  Jordan  like,  357, 

369. 

Passions,  tempt  us  as  pagans  did  mar- 
tyrs, 336;  insatiable  in  their  na- 
ture, 379. 

Patience,  a  high  praise,  325 ;  of  Job, 
337;  toward  all  men,  367;  puts 
the  impudent  to  shame,  ib.; 
proved  in  time,  381;   of  Christ, 

393- 
Patriarchs,    examples    how    people 

should  suffer  the  loss  of  children, 

299. 

Patronage,   change    of    religion   for, 

381. 
Paul,  St.,  scourged  at  Philippi,  181,  see 

Philippi;  gives  high  testimony  to 
Philippians,  ib. ;  in  bonds  when 
wrote  Epistle  to  Philippians,  ib.  ; 
let  go  afterwards,  ib. ;  wrote  it  in 
his  first  imprisonment,  ib. ;  con- 
soles Philippians  about  his  bonds, 
and  exhorts  to  unanimity  and  hu- 
mility, 182;  writes  to  encour- 
age, not  to  rebuke,  Philippians 
throughout,  ib. ;  praises  them 
for  their  well-doing,  ib.;  his 
great  love  for  them,  ib.  ;  why  he 
calls  himself  "  servant "  in  writing 
to  the  Philippians,  184;  reason 
for  his  writing  to  the  clergy  of 
Philippi,  ib. ;  his  joy  at  their  vir- 
tues, and  constant  readiness  to 
assist  him,  185;  to  be  loved  by 
him,  sign  of  being  great,  186; 
imprisoned  under  Emperor  Nero, 
ib. ;  in  what  sense  he  calls  God 
to  witness,  188;  his  bonds  use- 
ful, 189;  cause  of  confidence  to 
himself,  ib. ;  did  not  mind  griev- 
ous things  of  this  life,  193;  re- 
joices though  he  has  many  en- 
emies, ib. ;  his  humble-minded- 
ness  and  trust  in  God,  194;  would 
glorify  Christ  by  life  or  death,  ib. ; 
not  to  die  at  this  imprisonment, 
ib.;  how  dead  as  this  present 
life,  195;  because  he  did  not 
care  for  it,  ib. ;  it  would  be  by 
God's  dispensation,  not  of  man's 
sin,  196;  though  in  the  midst  of 
suffering  chooses  to  live,  198;  in 
what  way  like  the  sun,  199;  why 
willing  to  stay  on  earth,  ib. ;  not 
a  flatterer,  205;  how  he  was 
humble  and  courageous,  ib. ;  ex- 
horts to  humility  by  example  of 
Christ,  206;  by  awe  at  presence 
of  the  Holy  Spirit,  ib.t  and  note 
2;  one  text  of  his  lays  low  many 
heresies  at  once,  206;  takes  away 
fear  of  being  debased  because  of 
humility  by  example  of  the  In- 
carnation, 212;  his  discretion  in 
admonishing,  219;  his  death  like 
a  drink-offering,  and  cause  of  re- 
joicing to  the  Philippians,  222-23; 


frees  the  Philippians  from  suspi- 
cion of  his  giving  comfort  merely 
by  sending  Timothy,  223;  does 
all  for  Christ,  ib. ;  tidings  of  the 
Philippians  would  give  him  cour- 
age, 224;  did  not  know  all  things 
absent  by  revelation,  ib. ;  his  de- 
pendence on  God  in  everything, 
ib.  ;  had  not  neglected  them  ly- 
causc  he  sent  so  late,  225;  his 
soul  never  free  from  sorrow,  ib.  ; 
careful  to  teach  Philippians  hu- 
mility, 226;  had  more  than  one 
cloak,  and  lived  the  life  of  faith, 
228;  provided  his  proper  cloth- 
ing, ib.;  does  not  give  exhorta- 
tion without  first  commending, 
230;  his  high  state  as  a  Jew  in 
birth  and  way  of  life,  231 ;  died 
to  his  body  while  alive,  236;  not 
confident  of  attaining  to  the  res- 
urrection that  leads  to  Christ,  ib.  : 
his  life  one  of  contest  to  the  end, 
237;  taught  by  deeds  as  well  as 
words,  240;  an  example  of  the 
constancy  of  virtue  under  all  cir- 
cumstances, 241 ;  his  care  to  rec- 
ommend laborious  persons,  and 
the  benefit  of  this,  244;  is  re- 
freshed at  the  advancement  of 
his  disciples,  249;  probable  rea- 
son of  his  receiving  at  one  time, 
and  not  at  another,  250;  partly 
excuses  the  negligence  of  the 
Philippians,  ib.;  how  he  put 
down  proud  thoughts  from  well- 
doing and  yet  did  not  check  it, 
ib. ;  his  way  of  encouraging  lib- 
erality and  keeping  independ- 
ence, 25 1-5  2 ;  his  grief  for  sinners 
remarkable,  255;  those  of  his 
epistles  most  holy  which  were 
written  while  he  was  in  bonds, 
257;  had  not  seen  Colossians 
when  he  wrote  to  them,  ib. ;  his 
presence  everywhere  a  great 
thing,  258;  everywhere  couples 
conduct  with  faith,  264;  first 
praises,  then  blames,  265;  his 
striving  for  his  disciples,  281 ;  in 
all  his  epistles  he  tries  to  show 
that  Christians  are  partakers  with 
Christ,  290;  his  lowliness  of 
mind,  306;  his  work  prospered 
much  more  when  he  in  bonds 
than  out  of  them,  ib. ;  reasons 
for  his  not  putting  everything 
into  his  epistles,  309;  his  behav- 
ior to  Agrippa,  an  instance  of 
Christian  wisdom,  309;  treated 
worse  than  the  prophets  were, 
310;  the  considerate  way  in 
which  he  spoke  of  persons,  ib.  ; 
his  warnings  how  to  deal  with 
persons  he  calls  "  without,"  310- 
II;  his  wisdom  instanced  in  his 
discourse  to  the  Athenians,  31 1; 
and  in  treatment  of  Elymas,  ib.  ; 
his  reminding  the  Colossians  of 
his  bonds  a  great  support  to  them 
in  trials,  314-15;  meaning  of  his 
wish  to  be  accursed  from  Christ, 
317;  his  h  umility  in  placing  others 
with  himself,  323;  his  thank sgh- 


HOMILIES  ON  PHILIPPIANS,  COLOSS1ANS,  THESSALONIANS.     579 


ings  and  prayers  for  others,  324; 
asked  prayers  of  others,  326; 
persecuted  at  Bercea,  328;  at 
Philippi,  329;  no  flatterer,  329, 
^y,  sought  not  honor,  329-30; 
like  a  nurse,  330;  ready  to  en- 
dure hell,  331 ;  worked  with  his 
own  hands,  332,  394;  like  a 
father,  ^y  spoke  to  each  singly, 
ib. ;  asked  only  that  men  would 
gain  the  kingdom,  ib. ;  felt  sep- 
aration like  an  orphan,  334;  sat- 
isfied his  love  through  others,  ib.  ; 
his  vehement  love,  334, 341, 372; 
hindered  by  Satan,  334;  by  the 
Spirit,  ib. ;  not  all  things  re- 
vealed to,  339;  his  thorn  in  the 
flesh,  ib. ;  stayed  in  spite  of  dan- 
ger, 340;  his  labor,  ib.  ;  his  joy 
at  good  report,  ib.;  his  suffer- 
ings, ib.;  firm,  yet  moved  by 
love,  342;  exhorts  by  Christ, 
344;  had  no  false  delicacy,  346; 
Christ  spoke  in,  355;  heard  ex- 
pressly from  God  about  Judg- 
ment, ib.;  checks  curiosity,  360; 
improved  his  gifts,  370;  had 
great  confidence  before  God, 
371;  sends  kiss  of  charity,  372; 
subscribed  with  his  own  hand, 
377-78;  begins  with  prayer  for 
grace,  380;  humility  of,  ib.; 
gloried  in  the  Thcssalonians, 
381 ;  would  have  borne  hell  for 
God's  will,  383;  wisely  hinted 
the  fall  of  the  Roman  Empire, 
388;  prayer  of,  for  Thcssalo- 
nians, 390;  he  asks  theirs,  390- 
92;  indicates  his  dangers,  390- 
91;  had  right  to  be  maintained, 
394;  humility  of,  in  speaking  of 
his  own  doings,  396. 

Paul  of  Samosata,  206;  in  what  way 
heretical,  and  how  his  heresies 
fall  before  St.  Paul's  text,  206- 
07;  said  our  Lord  was  a  mere 
creature,  214;  his  doctrine  re- 
futed, 271. 

Peace,  we  are  at  peace  with  God, 
through  virtue,  247;  must  be 
maintained  with  God  and  our 
neighbor,  248;  restored  between 
men  and  angels,  273;  the  fre- 
quent mention  of  it  in  the  church, 
ib.;  not  the  Bishop's,  but  Christ's, 
by  means  of  him,  274;  is  an  um- 
pire in  the  heart  between  anger 
and  charity,  296;  human  peace 
cometh  of  revenging,  ib. ;  prayer 
for,  395. 

Peacemakers,  always  imitate  the  Son 
of  God,  248;  why  called  the 
sons  of  God,  273. 

Pearson,  Bp.,  an  argument  of,  353 
(note  2). 

People,  should  obey  priests  with  good 
will,  366;  many  of,  excel  ruler, 
391 ;  equal  with  priests  in  chief 
blessings,  391;  partake  of  one 
Baptism,  one  Lamb,  with  him, 
ib. 

Perfecting,  implies  deficiency,  341. 

Perfection,  not  in  the  Law,  nor  in 
Angels,  but  in  Christ  only,  280- 


81 ;  goes  beyond  commandments, 

344- 
Persecuted,   God's  glory  to   reward, 

385-. 

Persecution  at  an  end,  182;  why  per- 
mitted, 324;  at  Beroea,  328;  at 
Philippi,  329 ;  endurance  of, 
proves  the  Gospel,  329;  men 
that  will  not  hear  of  hell  are 
not  ready  for,  383;  patience  un- 
der, 385. 

Persecutors,  will  be  punished,  328, 
334;  shall  be  confounded  at 
glory  of  saints,  385. 

Persians,  king  of  the,  wears  his  beard 
of  gold,  292;  empire  of,  389. 

Persuasion,  of  God,  385,  and  note  1. 

Peter,  St.,  had  common  convenience 
of  clothing,  228;  freed  by  pray- 
ers of  others,  326,  391 ;  refuses 
honor  for  miracles,  339;  chief  of 
Apostles,  360;  not  told  time  of 
consummation,  360 ;  improve 
grace   given,  370. 

Phalanx,  pushing  through,  335. 

Phantom,  our  Lord  so  called  by  the 
Marcionites,  214. 

Pharaoh,  punishment  of,  358. 

Pharisee,  spoiled  good  works  by  pride, 

378. 
Pharisees,  made   men  sons   of  hell, 

362,  366;  in  Moses'  seat,  and  to 

be  obeyed,  366. 

Philemon,  Epistle  to,  written  while  St. 
Paul  was  in  bonds,  257;  written 
upon  close  of  St.  Paul's  preach- 
ing, 257;  probably  with  the  Co- 
lossians  at  one  time,  ib. 

Philippi,  persecution  at,  329;  named 
from  its  founder,  a  colony,  181 ; 
the  seller  of  purple  converted 
there,  ib. ;  keeper  of  the  prison 
believed  there,  ib. ;  St.  Paul  and 
Silas  scourged  there,  ib. ;  St. 
Paul's  preaching  had  a  remark- 
able commencement  here,  ib.  ; 
had  shown  great  readiness  for 
the  Faith,  182. 

Philippians,  of  a  city  in  Macedonia, 
182;  sent  Epaphroditus  to  St. 
Paul  in  prison,  ib.;  patterns  of 
charity,  ib. ;  partook  of  St.  Paul's 
sufferings,  200;  their  virtue  made 
St.  Paul  illustrious,  222;  had  at- 
tained to  a  life  of  love,  concord, 
and  peace,  240;  had  at  some 
time  been  negligent  in  well-do- 
ing, 249;  the  first  to  think  of 
giving  to  St.  Paul,  251 ;  their 
gifts  would  turn  to  their  salva- 
tion, 252;  they  were  poor  men, 
handicraftsmen,  ib.;  Epistle  to, 
written  while  St.  Paul  was  in 
bonds,   257;    Timothy  sent   to, 

334- 
Philosopher,    true,    not    grieved    by 

things  of  this  life,  193. 

Philosophers,  speak  of  future  punish- 
ment, 359;  of  changes  of  for- 
tune, 379. 

Philosophy,  heathen,  not  true  wisdom, 
193-94;  true,  not  to  wish  for  re- 
venge, 338. 

Physicians,  trusted  when   they  have 


foretold  symptoms,  335 ;  defile 
their  hands  to  cure,  346;  must 
displease  the  sick,  366;  useless, 
going  to,  unless  for  remedy,  387. 

Photinus,  in  what  way  heretical,  206; 
how  his  heresy  falls  before  St. 
Paul's  text,  ib. 

Piety,  belongs  to  man  alone  of  crea- 
tures, 218. 

Pilot,  Christ  a,  355. 

Pity,  201. 

Places,  loved  on  account  of  friends, 
321. 

Plants,   wonderful   growth   of,   352- 

354. 

Plane-tree,  golden,  made  by  an  an- 
cient king,  291-92. 

Pleasure,  less  in  splendid  feasts,  than 
in  poor  ones,  261 ;  is  not  the  life 
of  Christians,  289. 

Plenty,  inclines  to  evil,  and  requires 
great  virtue  in  the  use  of  it,  250. 

Poets,  speak  of  future  punishment, 
359;  of  great  men's  falls,  379. 

Pomegranates,  of  Sodom,  full  of 
ashes,  357. 

Poor,  to  feast  them  is  to  make  God 
our  debtor,  260;  called  to  Christ, 
292,  294;  it  is  no  good  to  feed 
them  and  live  voluptuously 
one's  self,  ib. ;  sometimes  oppress 
the  poorer,  370;  exemplary  in 
thankfulness,  373;  sit  at  Church 
doors,  ib.;  are  dogs  of  God's 
palace,  374;  communicate  with 
the  great,  ib.;  descendants  of, 
may  be  great,  374;  pride  cured 
by  sight  of,  ib. ;  best  guests  to 
entertain,  ib.;  Christ  comes  in, 
ib. ;  contempt  of,  comes  of  pride, 
378 ;  dishonor  to,  provokes  God, 

395- 
Potiphar,  unreasonable,  380. 

Poverty,  a  happiness,  191 ;  false  rea- 
sons for  fearing  it,  193;  good  or 
bad,  according  to  the  disposition, 
ib.;  is  good  or  bad,  according  to 
a  man's  will,  233;  the  procurer 
of  heaven,  ib.;  distresses  most 
men,  349;  furnace  of,  373;  com- 
forted   in    house    of  mourning, 

384. 

Power  of  Christ,  cause  of  men's  work- 
ing greater  deeds  than  himself, 
205;  persons  in  power  ever 
changing  like  dust,  290. 

Practice,  of  the  commands  of  Christ 
brings  us  His  gifts,  206. 

Praetorium,  palace  of  Nero  so  called, 
181;  palace  so  called,  189. 

Praise,  when  rightly  given  and  with- 
held, 208;  men  should  not  live 
dependent  on  it,  or  do  praise- 
worthy actions  for  its  sake,  248. 

Prayer,  assists  the  dead,  197;  a  con- 
solation at  all  times,  246;  should 
be  joined  with  thanksgiving, 
ib.;  not  acknowledged  with- 
out thanksgiving,  247 ;  frequent, 
makes  persons  listless,  therefore 
they  must  join  watching  with  it 
and  thanksgiving,  305 ;  a  Saint's 
prayer,  ib.;  remembering  others 
in,  324;  of  others  useful,  if  we 


580    HOMILIES  ON  PHILIPPIANS,  COLOSSIANS,  THESSALONIANS. 


do  our  part,  326;  made  for  all 
men,  ib.;  expressed  from  love, 
341 ;  due  to  pastors,  372;  houses 
of,  373;  of  arrogant,  not  heard, 
ib.;  of  St  Paul  for  Thessalo- 
nians,  390;  he  asks  theirs,  ib.; 
St.  Chrysostom  asks  earnestly, 
and  more  on  his  own  account,  ib. ; 
united,  powerful,  391 ;  for  people 
bold  in  St.  Chrysostom,  it.;  yet 
he  makes  it  in  private  as  well  as 
in  public,  ib.;  seals  precepts, 
395 ;  for  peace,  ib. ;  in  saluta- 
tion, ib. 

Prayer  of  the  Faithful,  Lord's  Prayer 
so  called,  306. 

Preachers,  of  strife  taught  as  St.  Paul 
did,  against  their  will,  as  instru- 
ments of  the  devil,  190. 

Presbyters,  sometimes  called  Bishops, 
184;  could  not  lay  hands  on  a 
Bishop,  ib. 

Pride,  to  be  corrected  by  thanking 
God  for  our  wisdom,  204;  makes 
men  even  unlike  the  devil,  205 ; 
haughtiness  not  courage,  ib.; 
cause  of  Satan's  fall,  216;  is 
worse  than  folly,  217;  the  evils 
that  come  from  it  in  a  man's  tem- 
per, ib.;  natural  good  qualities 
and  blessings  should  not  make 
men  proud,  ib. ;  makes  a  man 
lower  than  irrational  creatures, 
218;  shown  in  thinking  fine 
houses  superfluities,  etc.,  a  gain, 
232;  attendant  on  the  feasts  of 
the  heathen,  262;  cure  of,  in 
seeing  the  poor,  374 ;  exclaimed 
against,  ib. ;  comes  of  not  know- 
ing God,  378;  beginning  of  sin, 
ib.;  of  Pharisee,  spoiled  good 
works,  ib.;  a  constant  misery, 
379;  a  sign  of  wanting  reason, 
ib.  ;  of  rich  at  Church,  387. 

Priest,  should  be  obeyed  with  good- 
will, 366;  hated  for  reproving, 
ib.;  authority  of,  sanctioned  by 
Christ,  ib.;  gives  up  the  world 
for  his  office,  ib.;  imparts  the 
Holy  Mysteries,  367;  communi- 
cates first  but  equally  with  peo- 
ple, 392. 

Priests,  grudging  to  support  them  up- 
braided, 226-27. 

Prize,  the,  the  Christian  runs  for  in 
heaven,  239;  it  is  far  more  pre- 
cious than  gold  or  jewels,  *£.;  those 
who  could  gain  it  must  follow  ex- 
ample of  runners  in  a  race,  ib.; 
Christ  gives  it  in  heaven,  ib. 

Proclamation,  the,  is  made  further 
known  when  St.  Paul  is  bound, 
306-07. 

Prodigal  Son,  an  example  to  those 
that  sin  after  Baptism,  238. 

Prophecies,  about  Christ  and  Anti- 
christ, 389. 

Prophesyings,  true  and  false,  371. 

Prophets,  slain  by  Jews,  333;  speak 
as  from  God,  355;  speak  irre- 
sponsibly at  the  time,  371 ;  less 
listened  to  than  king's  messen- 
gers, 387. 

Proselytes,   not   circumcised  on    the 


eighth  day,  nor  of  the  stock  of 
Israel,  231. 

Providence,  signs  of,  283. 

Proving  all  things,  what,  371. 

Prudentius,  on  St.  Lawrence,  336 
(note  2). 

Psalms,  singing  a  less  irksome  way  of 
gaining  instruction  than  reading, 
301 ;  the  warnings  they  contain 
for  the  practice  of  virtue,  302. 

Pulpit,  not  opened  to  all,  371. 

Punishment,  example  of,  necessary 
to  lead  bad-principled  to  virtue, 
220;  all  sin  incurs,  344;  comes 
of  evil  will,  347;  temporal,  for 
those  who  knew  not  eternal,  358; 
instances  of,  358-59;  from  God 
not  to  be  questioned,  358;  pres- 
ent unequal,  359;  for  not  obey- 
ing the  Gospel,  382,  384;  of 
others  not  to  be  rejoiced  in,  382 : 
the  heavier  for  delay,  384 ;  future, 
proved  eternal,  ib. ;  of  disorderly 
by  withdrawing  from  them,  394, 

396. 
Purity,  blessedness  of,  342;  enjoined 

on  Timothy,  344. 

Reader,  at  Church  speaks  God's 
words,  387. 

Reason,  cannot  comprehend  mys- 
teries, 236,  282;  pride  shows 
want  of,  379;  overwhelmed  by 
ill  discourses,  383. 

Reasoning,  not  used  to  the  docile, 
352;  on  some  things  unwise, 
354;  like  swimming  without  boat 
or  pilot,  ib. ;  good  not  to  indulge 
in,  380;  conclusive,  from  God's 
justice,  382. 

Rebecca,  an  example  for  a  bride,  317. 

Reconciliation,  the  way  of,  through 
Christ,  272. 

Red  Sea,  burial  to  Egyptians,  genera- 
tion to  Israelites,  290. 

Rejoicing  in  Christ  arises  from  mourn- 
ing for  sins,  246. 

Relations,  domestic,  intent  of,  369. 

Remembrance,  good,  what,  340. 

Remission,  of  sins,  given  in  baptism, 
238. 

Repetition,  needful,  386;  in  Holy 
Scriptures  complained  of,  388. 

Report,  of  actions,  greatest  near  the 
spot,  328;  credible  from  those 
who  might  envy,  ib. 

Reprieve,  356. 

Reproof,  preparation  for,  380,  393. 

Restitution,  should  exceed  wrongful 
gains,  369. 

Resurrection,  the,  a  motive  to  good 
living,  212;  no  tidings  of,  in  Job's 
time,  222;  that  of  Christ,  known 
only  by  faith,  not  reason,  236; 
one  which  leads  to  honor,  one  to 
punishment,  236;  the  glorious 
one  to  be  attained  by  going 
through  the  like  sufferings  with 
Christ,  237 ;  doctrine  of,  believed 
by  only  a  few  of  those  who  live 
in  sin,  269;  men  rewarded  in  it 
according  to  desert,  ib.;  prefig- 
ured in  Enoch,  Eli  as,  Jonah, 
Noah,  fiery  furnace,  generation 


of  plants,  and  of  man,  283;  of 
Christ  an  encouragement,  328, 
363 ;  future,  a  comfort  in  troubles, 
349;  belief  in,  stays  sorrow  for 
deaths,  ib.;  sorrow  in  spite  of 
believing,  3 J2;  first  Resurrection, 
ib.;  objections  to,  353-54;  of 
garments  supposed  by  some,  353;  » 
in  a  moment,  356;  comes  un- 
awares, ib.;  some  said  already 
past,  and  why,  377;  lively  pic- 
ture of,  382;  time  of,  not  known, 
386. 

Retribution,  to  come,  357-360;  fu- 
ture, just,  381 ;  exceeds  actions, 
both  good  and  evil,  382. 

Revenge,  best  found  in  taking  none, 

367. 
Reward,  according  to  proportion  of 

righteousness,  381 ;  more  desired 

than  revenge,  382. 

Rich,  not  refused  by  Christ,  374;  but 
warned  of  their  danger,  ib. ;  man, 
despised  Lazarus,  ib. ;  asked  his 
help  in  vain  afterwards,  ib. ;  men, 
advised  to  entertain  the  poor,  ib.  ; 
fall  anyhow  in  war,  374;  goods 
of,  often  confiscated,  ib.;  man, 
would  have  escaped  hell  had  he 
feared  it,  ib.;  make  a  show  in 
church,  387;  think  they  do  a 
favor  in  coming  to  church,  ib. 

Riches,  cause  of  unnumbered  evils, 
183;  bring  trouble,  191;  make 
unable  to  receive  pleasure,  192; 
their  value  shown  in  instance  of 
Dives  and  Lazarus,  ib. ;  how  to 
be  rich  indeed,  193;  should  be 
joined  with  great  mercy,  201 ;  no 
cause  for  being  proud,  217;  may 
deprive  men  of  future  consola- 
tion, 228;  the  conditions  of,  are 
loss  accompanied  with  inexpres- 
sible trouble,  and  without  gain, 
231-32;  men  must  soon  leave 
them,  232;  their  ill  effects,  ib.; 
are  a  good,  if  used  as  a  means  to 
gain  heaven,  ib. ;  love  of,  shows 
unreadiness  for  trial,  335;  love 
of,  increased  by  gazing,  338; 
of  ancients,  in  things  necessary, 
ib. ;  a  disgraceful  memorial,  369; 
ill-gotten,  to  be  restored  with 
addition,  ib. ;  desire  of,  comes  of 
pride,  378;  vanity  of,  proved  by 
death,  384;  of  God  are  the  faith- 
ful, 385 ;  must  be  despised  if  we 
are  to  despise  self,  393. 

Righteousness,  not  according  to  Christ 
is  a  simply  moral  life,  189;  the 
kind  which  comes  from  man's 
own  diligence  is  not  to  be  com- 
pared with  that  which  is  God's 
gift  through  faith,  235;  reward 
according  to,  381. 

River  of  fire,  365. 

Robber,  watchfulness  defeats,  362; 
armor  needed  against,  363;  cov- 
etous man  a,  369;  first  puts  out 
lamp,  371. 

Robbers,  crucified  with  our  Lord, 
both  of  them  impious  at  one 
time,  215. 

Robbery,  a  work  of  darkness,  362; 


HOMILIES  ON  PHILIPPIANS,  COLOSSIANS,  THESSALONIANS.     581 


hard   dealing   more  cruel   than, 

369- 
Roman,  laws.     See  Laws.     Empire, 

what  withheld  Antichrist,  388; 
fall  of,  predicted,  ib.;  but  cov- 
ertly, ib. 

Rudiments,  same  as  elements,  the  sun 
and  moon,  284. 

Rule,  a,  is  destroyed  by  addition  or 
subtraction,  240. 

Ruler,  incurs  enmities,  366;  obedi- 
ence due  to,  ib. ;  should  be  gentle, 
367;  interest  of,  is  the  people's, 
391 ;  should  excel  in  virtue  rather 
than  in  honor,  397. 

Rulers,  fall  of,  frequent,  379;  men 
seek  favor  of,  380;  none  Chris- 
tian at  first,  381 ;  why  now  to  be 
prayed  for,  391;  most  assailed 
by  Satan,  ib. 

Runners,  in  a  race  an  example  for 
Christians  in  their  course  to 
heaven,  239. 

Sabbath,  was  broken  for  the  sake  of 
*  circumcision,  230;    breaking  of, 
punished,  359. 

Sabellius,  the  Libyan,  206;  what  his 
heresy  was,  ib.;  how  his  heresy 
falls  before  St.  Paul's  text,  207. 

Sacraments,  keys  of  heaven,  367. 

Sacrifice,  the,  273. 

Saints,  they  that  wait  on  them  sharers 
of  their  crown,  185;  to  wait  on 
them  makes  up  for  inability  to 
fast,  ib. ;  how  they  live  not  this 
present  life,  1 95;  to  be  received 
with  honor,  225;  service  to  them 
no  favor,  but  a  debt,  226;  it  is  a 
free  service,  and  brings  a  reward 
on  the  giver,  227;  united  by  af- 
flictions, 253;  pray  with  thanks- 
giving for  every  person  and  thing, 
305 ;  those  that  attend  on  them 
share  their  troubles,  312;  and 
sharers  of  their  sufferings  share 
their  crowns,  ib.;  the  way  to 
share  with  them,  ib. ;  prayers  of, 
useful,  326,  393;  not  to  the  care- 
less, ib. ;  to  be  sought,  327 ; 
spread  a  perfume  of  virtue,  ib.; 
all  things  not  revealed  to,  339; 
remembrance  of,  warms  us,  343; 
God  glorified  in,  385 ;  shall  come 
with  Christ,  386. 

Salvation,  hope  of,  a  helmet,  363; 
ground  for  such  hope,  363,  372; 
by  sanctihcation  and  belief,  390; 
of  man,  Christ's  glory,  ib. 

Salutation,  a  proof  of  good-will,  253; 
in  St.  Paul's  own  writing,  377-78, 
395;   prayer  called  a,  395. 

Samson,  lost  in  marriage,  not  from 
marriage,  but  his  own  free  will, 
241. 

Samuel,  prayed  in  vain  for  Saul,  326; 
with  effect  for  Israel,  326,  391 ; 
prophecy  restored  in,  327;  knew 
not  whom  to  anoint  of  himself, 

339. 
Sanctification,  fornication  opposed  to, 

344;    through    the    Spirit,    390 ; 

faith  needed  after,  ib. 
Sapphira,  sin  and  punishment  of,  359. 


Satan,  allowed  to  ravage  upon  unfruit- 
ful souls,  210;  likened  to  differ- 
ent wild  creatures  according  to 
his  disposition,  ib.;  great  or 
small  in  power  as  men  choose,  ib. ; 
cannot  enter  man's  soul  except 
God  permit  him,  ib.;  fell  by 
«  pride,  216;  received  his  death- 
stroke  from  a  dead  body,  286; 
did  what  he  could  to  make 
Christ's  death  private,  ib.;  the 
deviser  of  charms,  298-99;  hin- 
ders human  purposes,  334;  an 
enemy  ever  urgent,  336;  his  rob- 
bing Job,  337 ;  his  means  of  div- 
ination, ib. ;  robbers  his  servants, 
ib.;  his  crafty  assaults,  ib. ;  at- 
tacks men  through  others'  trials, 
339-40;  suggest er  of  question- 
ing God's  justice,  358;  ever  ly- 
ing in  wait,  364;  foretold  things 
future,  371;  but  falsely,  ib. ; 
would  cut  off  hope  of  Resurrec- 
tion, 377;  suborned  false  teach- 
ers, ib.;  fills  children  with  false 
notions,  378;  Antichrist  like  him 
in  pride,  ib. ;  by  which  he  fell, 
ib.;  specially  attacks  rulers,  391. 

Saul,  not  saved  by  Samuel's  prayer, 
326;  sinned  in  sparing  against 
commandment,  359. 

Schools,  of  learning,   scholars  teach 

in,  397- 
Scorners,  miserable  and  unreasonable, 

365. 
Scribes  and  Pharisees  in  Moses'  seat, 

366;  not  to  be  imitated,  ib. 

Scripture,  without  reason  not  enough 
to  persuade  the  contentious,  212; 
shows  admiration  for  jewels  out 
of  regard  for  man's  weakness, 
234;  should  be  read  not  lightly, 
but  with  earnestness,  301 ;  makes 
suffering  less  burdensome,  ib.  ; 
better  than  men-teachers,  300; 
not  to  know  it  the  cause  of  all 
defects  in  practice,  301 ;  heark- 
ening to,  keeps  up  good  thoughts, 
382;  chief  things  plain  in,  388; 
read  in  known  language  to  the 
people,  ib. ;  people  challenged  to 
give  account  of,  ib. 

Seed,  analogy  of,  3 J 2-53;  sown  on 
a  rock,  367;  spiritual,  needs  cul- 
ture, 386;  devil  carries  away, 
if  neglected,  ib. 

Self-command,  makes  man  superior 
to  irrational  creatures,  218. 

Self-denial,  now  a  means  of  escaping 
future  punishment,  245. 

Self-indulgent,  deny  the  cross,  and 
are  worthy  of  tears,  242;  their 
belly  their  god,  ib. 

Seller  of  purple  converted  at  Philippi, 
181. 

Senses,   all    originate   in   the    head, 

397- 
Sentences,  what  indisputable,  382. 

Servant,  of  Jesus  Christ,  a  high  rank, 
184. 

Servants,  duty  of,  to  their  masters, 
304-05;  should  serve  heathen 
masters  with  the  same  care  they 


would    Christian,    305;     to    be 
spoken  to  concerning  hell,  384. 

Service,  lessons  in,  387 ;  silence  called 
for  in,  ib. 

Severity,  not  needed  where  there  is 
no  guilt,  220. 

Shame,  is  not  in  being  bound  for,  but 
in  betraying  Christ,  195;  im- 
planted in  our  nature  by  God, 
more  powerful  than  fear  to  bring 
us  to  virtue,  201 ;  sense  of,  mo- 
tive to  improvement,  224. 

Shem,  loved  his  father,  342. 

Shimei,  examples  of  audacity,  205. 

Ship,  lightened  in  dangers,  338; 
Scriptures,  a,  355;  wind  to,  as 
discourse  to  soul,  3S3. 

Sickness,  recovery  from,  a  mercy,  and 
how,  225. 

Silas,  scourged  at  Philippi,  181. 

Silvanus,  St.,  named  before  Timothy, 
323;   implied  in  plural,  341. 

Sin,  more  object  of  dread,  if  we  la- 
ment for  it  in  others,  196;  many 
things  lead  to  our  avoiding  it, 
201 ;  why  called  "  upon  earth," 
294;  those  who  walk  in,  are  not 
in  God,  324;  frustrates  prayer 
for  us,  326;  all,  defiles,  342;  to 
shun,  no  praise,  344;  punished 
temporally  to  teach  men,  358; 
instances  of,  punished,  358-59;  * 
different  characters  of,  359;  leads 
to  certain  death,  367;  pride  the 
beginning  of,  378;  to  be  cut  off 
by  talking  of  hell,  384. 

Sinners,  dying  in  sin  without  hope, 
196;  must  be  pained  here  that 
they  may  escape  the  river  of  tire, 
212;  know  they  sin  by  their  con- 
science, 269;  think  one  that  re- 
bukes them  austere  only,  320. 

Sinai,  angels  at  Mount,  355. 

Slave,  female,  about  to  be  sold  with 
her  husband,  372;  may  teach  a 
master  virtue,  397. 

Slaves,  scourged,  372;  adjure  their 
masters,  ib. 

Sleep,  comes  over  the  virtuous  with- 
out fear,  248;  spiritual,  danger 
of,*  326,  363,  393;  in  Jesus  not 
death,  352;  our  helplessness  in, 
humbling,  379. 

Sloth,  to  avoid  it  we  must  do  the  la- 
bors within  our  measure,  191. 

Sodom,  sin  of,  surpassed,  357;  fruits 
of,  full  of  ashes,  ib. 

Soil,  spiritual,  not  inanimate,  386. 

Soldier,  rewarded  for  wounds,  335; 
always  keeps  to  exercise  and 
arms,  ib. ;  an  example  to  Chris- 
tians, 336;  in  heaven  a  child 
may  be  made,  351. 

Son,  why  it  is  said  of  man,  but 
never  of  Angel,  270;  The,  the 
image  of  God,  270;  not  a  crea- 
ture because  called  Firstborn, 
ib.  ;  "  before  all  things,"  ib.  ; 
first  in  the  Church,  ib. ;  types  of 
His  eternal  generation,  283; 
same  words  applied  to  as  to  the 
Father,  324;  given  for  us,  363; 
generation  of,  above  reasoning, 
354;  of  God,  he  who  knows,  is 


582     HOMILIES  ON  PHILIPPIANS,  COLOSSIANS,  THESSALONIANS. 


not   proud,  378;    named  before 
the  Father,  390. 

Sophronius,  206;  in  what  way  heret- 
ical, 207;  how  his  heresy  falls 
before  St.  Paul's  text,  id. 

Sorrow,  not  to  be  without  hope,  389; 
excuses  for,  id.;  comfort  in,  350; 
often  caused  by  ignorance,  352; 
for  sinners,  id. 

Soul,  Christian,  noble  in  life  or  death, 
194;  brought  into  tune  by  hard 
sayings,  212;  the  truly  wise  is 
disturbed  by  nothing,  241 ;  the 
diseased  is  ever  changing,  242; 
is  delighted  with  sweet  savors, 
252;  that  of  servants,  free  in  its 
service,  305;  to  give,  hard,  330; 
defiled  by  all  sin,  342;  chief  ob- 
ject in  education,  346;  notion  of 
its  transmigration,  353;  thought 
to  be  consumed  by  fire,  id. ;  a 
vicious,  dead  and  dry,  363;  fear 
of  hell  should  be  seated  on,  383- 
84;  shaken,  can  make  no  effort, 

390. 
Speech,  heavy,  good  to  correct  the 

soul,  212;    rules  for,  in  dealing 

with  people  of  different  estates, 

311;    rules  for  it   in  a   teacher, 

id. 

Spirit,  the  Holy,  comes  through  mer- 
cy, 201 ;  man  nothing  but  by 
Him,  258;  gives  joy  in  suffering, 
325 ;  lamp  of,  not  to  be  quenched, 
370;  flame  of,  what  strengthens, 
371;  gifts  of,  Satan  would  abuse, 
id.;  fire  of,  cures  thorny  land, 
387;  clergy  fathers  in,  392;  un- 
clean, false  prophets  spoke  by, 
386. 

Spirits,  wicked,  371 ;  discernment  of, 
id. 

Steadfastness,  cannot  be  shaken  by 
deceit  or  trial,  281. 

Stores,  of  bread,  wine,  and  oil,  338. 

Strangers,  all  Abraham  had  at  their 
service,  369. 

Strength,  should  not  make  men  proud, 
217;  to  be  employed  in  God's 
service,  233. 

Subscription,  to  letters  in  sender's 
own  writing,  378;  of  St.  Paul,  a 
token,  395. 

Suffering,  for  Christ,  joyous,  325;  re- 
joicing in,  enables  one  to  render 
good  for  evil,  367;  for  Christ  is 

glory,  385. 

Sufferings,  for  Christ,  are  of  grace, 
200;  their  dignity,  236;  make 
men  comformable  to  Christ's 
death,  id.;  are  lightened  by 
thinking  of  harder  ones,  299; 
and  by  thanksgiving,  yx>;  knowl- 
edge of  Scripture  lightens  them, 
id. 

Sun  of  Righteousness,  melts  away  all 
hardness,  343. 

Sup  *rior,  a,  draws  his  disciple  towards 
him,  by  showing  concern  for  him, 
225. 

Surfeit,  worse  than  hunger,  261. 

Tabitha,  raised  by  prayer,  326. 
Table,  holy,  poor  admitted  to,  with 


the  rich,  374;  equally  with  the 
emperor,  id. ;  an  example  for  our 
entertainments,  id. 

Tables,  description  of  two  sorts,  260. 

Teacher,  spiritual,  surpasses  a  natural 
father  in  kindness,  203;  leads  on 
his  disciple  by  deeds,  not  words 
only,  240;  must  use  discretion 
in  teaching  hard  things,  31 1 ; 
should  be  ready  for  hardship, 
332;  claims  of,  to  support,  332, 
394;  troubles  of,  try  disciples, 
335;  good,  cares  for  his  dis- 
ciples, 340;  obliged  to  incur 
enmities,  366;  obedience  to,  en- 
joined, id.;  not  every  one  made, 
id.;  patience  good  in,  367;  head 
of  a  family  should  be  at  home, 
397;  so  relieving  the  teacher  of 
the  Church,  id. 

Teaching,  affects  us  with  compunc- 
tion, 397-98. 

Tears,  excessive,  spring  from  passion, 
not  true  affection,  197;  St.  Paul's 
better  than  the  fountain  in  Para- 
dise, 316;  such  tears  Christ  pro- 
nounces blessed,  id.;  those  for 
others'  sins  are  better  than  the 
sight  of  Christ,  id.;  should  be 
used  when  we  entreat  a  sinning 
brother,  317;  overcame  St.  Paul, 

342. 

Temple,  of  God,  in  which  Antichrist 
shall  sit,  378. 

Temptation,  uses  of  term,  335  (note 
2) ;  may  be  where  no  wavering, 
340;  endangers  grace,  370;  God 
glorified  in,  385 ;  may  turn  from 
love  of  God,  393. 

Thankfulness,  right  under  all  events, 
223;  for  good  of  others,  380; 
present  things  cause  for,  390. 

Thanksgiving,  a  duty  in  grievous  as 
well  as  pleasant  things,  247;  may 
be  given  even  in  anguish,  265; 
the  good  effects  of  it  in  evil,  298; 
lightens  suffering,  300;  for  every 
person  and  thing  should  be  joined 
with  prayer,  305;  in  all  things, 
true  philosophy,  367;  of  many, 
when  prayer  of  many  is  answered, 

391. 
Theaters,  tempt  to  uncleanness,  347; 
talking  of,  useless  and  dangerous, 

382. 
Thessalonians,    new    converts,    323; 

praise  of,  implied  in  thanksgiv- 
ing, 324;  their  sufferings,  id.; 
and  joy  in  them,  328;  called 
elect,  325;  an  example,  325,  327; 
praised  everywhere,  328;  were 
poor,  332;  proved  sincere  by 
trials,  396;  joined  with  others  in 
St.  Paul's  crown,  334;  honored 
by  his  sending  Timothy,  id.; 
praised  for  love  of  brethren,  348; 
had  lost  their  goods,  349;  many 
of  the,  prophesied,  371 ;  occasion 
of  the  second  Epistle  to,  377; 
perplexed  about  the  last  times, 
378;  heard  of  in  distant  places, 
381 ;  St.  Paul  gloried  in,  id.; 
check  to  proud  thoughts  in,  385; 
so  commended  as  to  learn  trust 


in  God,  393;   admonished  about 

idleness,  394. 
Thorns,  riches  are,  386;    feed  sulky 

camels,  387. 
Thought.     See  JReason. 
Threats  of  God  will   be   performed, 

357- 

Time,  spent  with  unbelievers,  made 

useful   to    their   salvation,    310; 
examples  given,  311. 
Times,   accused   by   St   Chrysostom, 
201 ;    loved  because  of  friends, 
321;     question    about    deferred, 

377- 
Timothy,  St.,  with  St.  Paul,  when  he 

wrote  Epistle  to  Philippians,  181; 
shown  to  be  a  Bishop,  184;  sent 
to  the  Philippians,  223;  the  only 
one  like-minded  with  St.  Paul, 
224;  Epistle  to,  written  later  than 
that  to  the  Philippians,  238;  Epis- 
tle to,  written  while  St.  Paul  was 
in  bonds,  257;  probably  later 
than  that  to  Colossians,  id. ;  why 
named  after  Silvanus,  323;  why 
sent  by  St.  Paul,  334-35;  hard 
to  be  spared,  340;  brought  good 
news,  id. ;  bid  keep  himself  pure, 

344- 
Toil,  to   seek   remission   from,  is  to 

leave  off  seeking  the  things  of 

Christ,    224;     toil    distinguished 

from  labor,  340  (note  4). 

Tradesmen,  hard  on  poorer  trades- 
men, 370. 

Tradition,  by  actions,  344,   394;    of 
•    the  Church,  to  be  received,  390. 

Traffic,  spiritual,  carried  on  by  giving 
to  the  good,  251. 

Tragedies,  ancient,  please  because 
they  are  formed  from  true  inci- 
dents, 254. 

Travail,  time  of,  not  exactly  known, 
362. 

Travelling,  should  not  make  men 
proud,  217. 

Trials,  less  grievous  if  foretold,  335; 
he  who  cannot  bear  is  feeble- 
minded, 367;  is  "sown  on  a 
rock,"  id.;  thought  of  hell  pre- 
pares for,  383;  God  glorified  in, 

385. 
Tribulation  for  Christ  is  glory,  38$. 

Tribulations  according  to  Christ,  bring 
joy,  229. 

Trumpet,  at  the  Resurrection,  356. 

Truth,  he  that  resists  it  wounds  hun- 
self,  191. 

Tychicus,  bearer  of  the  Epistle  to  the 
Colossians,  258;  sent  by  St.  Paul 
to  the  Colossians,  309. 

Tyrants,  reduced  to  sit  on   ground, 

379- 

Unanimity,  the  greatest  safety  for 
disciples  against  their  enemies, 
182;  comes  of  humility,  id. 

Unbelief,  prevalent  at  all  times,  267; 
it  arises  from  a  bad  conscience, 
268;  punishment  increased  by 
it,  269. 

Unbelievers,  are  with  the  condemned 
at  death,  197. 

Uncleanness,  expresses  a  class  of  sins, 


HOMILIES  ON  PHILIPPIANS,  COLOSSIANS,  THESSALONIANS.     583 


294»  legal*  opposite  of  holiness, 

342  (note  l). 
Understanding,  how  to  use  it  in  God's 

service,  233;    the,  gets  dizzy  at 

things  faith  does  not  stagger  at, 

282. 
Unity,  the  work  of  the  Holy  Spirit, 

200;    breakers  of,  rend  Christ's 

members,  273. 
Universe,  not  made  by  chance,  283. 
Usurpers,  fear  to  lay  aside  what  they 

have  usurped,  213. 

Vainglory,  the  evils  that  come  of  it, 
203;  cause  of  men's  thinking, 
dress,  ornaments,  and  tine  houses, 
a  gain,  232;  leads  men  to  use 
God's  gifts  for  enjoyment  merely, 
234;    turns  from   love   of   God, 

393- 
Valentinus,  206. 

Vice,  practice  of,  increases  it,  220; 
at  enmity  with  man's  nature, 
247;  purged  out  by  thought  of 
hell,  359-60;  a  drunkenness, 
362;  life  of,  a  dream,  363;  a 
death,  ib.;  a  darkness,  ib, ; 
seizes  us  when  we  think  not,  364. 

Vienne,  martyrdoms  at,  336  (note  2). 

Vineyard,  God's,  type  not  of  Jeru- 
salem only,  but  of  the  soul,  209. 

Virgins,  may  appear  at  a  wedding  to 
attend  on  the  bride,  318;  should 
be  modest  at  all  times  and  states, 
/'//.  .*  parable  of  the  ten,  355,  372, 

3*5- 
Virtue,  advancement  in  it  the  only 

thing  to  be  soufht,  199;  entirely 
a  gift  from  God,  200;  many 
natural  affections  lead  to  it,  201 ; 
belongs  to  man  alone  of  all  crea- 
tures and  makes  him  superior  to 
them,  218;  practice  of,  will  make 
a  man  an  angel,  ib. ;  practice  of, 
increases  it,  220 ;  in  the  midst 
of  affliction,  shines  like  stars  in 
the  night,  222;  path  of,  easier 
to  poor  than  rich,  233;  per- 
fection of,  attained  by  constant 
striving,  239;  shines  forth  under 
all  circumstances,  241 ;  makes 
men  at  peace  with  God,  247; 
is  friendly  to  man's  nature,  248; 
required  in  knowing  how  to 
abound,  as  well  as  to  be  in 
want,  250;  planted  everywhere 
in  the  later  times  by  God's 
grace,  279;  called  wisdom,  300; 
rewarded  by  God,  as  if  His 
gain,  332;    true,  that  in  God's 


sight,  342 ;  two-fold,  in  shunning  t 
evil  and  doing  good,  344;  pro- 
moted by  uncertainty  of  life,  361 ; 
consistent   with   a   married   life, 

396. 
Vision  of  Christ  seen  by  a  woman, 

372-73- 
Voice,  a  tine,  should  not  make  men 

proud,  217;  of  Christ  raises  dead, 

355;  of  Archangel,  355-56. 

Want,  inclines  to  evil  things,  250. 

War,  spiritual,  always  our  duty,  336. 

Warning,  should  be  gentle,  367. 

Watchful,  nothing  will  hurt  him,  241. 

Watchfulness,  a  security,  326,  362; 
in  our  power,  362 ;  in  vain  with- 
out arms,  363;  perpetual,  needed, 

364- 

Water,  wonderfully  transformed,  353; 
extinguishes  a  lamp,  370. 

Way,  narrow,  requires  care,  364;  and 
light  equipment,  ib. ;  broad,  leads 
to  death,  ib. 

Weak,  to  be  supported,  367;  in  faith, 
ib.;  wish  to  see  enemies  pun- 
ished, 381. 

Wealth,  not  a  cause  of  honor,  but  of 
dishonor,  290;  its  bad  effects 
seen  in  a  luxurious  king,  291-92; 
its  evils  arise  from  the  greediness 
of  the  desires,  292;  makes  men 
mad  and  turns  them  into  demons, 
292;  a  mischievous  thorn,  386- 
87;  often  lost  for  want  of  a  wife, 

397; 

Well-doing,  brings  good,  249;  well- 
doings of  man  are  gifts  of  grace, 
219-20. 

Widows,  unable  to  manage  slaves, 
349 ;  excessive  grief  of,  356 ; 
comfort  for,  350-51;  children 
of,  may  do  well,  351;  widows 
indeed,  ib. 

Wife,  what  her  duty  is  to  her  husband, ; 
304;  wife  and  husband  make 
but  one  man,  318-19;  how  she 
should  please  her  husband,  346; 
often  ill-treated,  350;  to  be 
taught  to  fear  hell,  384;  will 
learn  meekness  of  her  husband, 
397;  and  contempt  of  money, 
ib.;  directed  to  learn  of  her 
husband,  ib. 

Will,  good,  increased  by  doing  good, 
220;  free,  not  taken  away  by 
God's  working  with  man,  ib. ;  it 
makes  riches  or  poverty  a  gain 
to  man,  233;  of  God  must  cast 
out  every  other  will,  314;    the 


chief  thing  for  amendment,  347; 
can  turn  a  wrong  into  a  benefit, 
367;  ours  must  concur  to  our 
salvation,  393~395- 
Wind,  as,  to  a  ship,  so  discourse  to  a 
soul,  383;   help  of  God  like  a, 

393- 
Wisdom,  is  opposed  to  all  luxury,  292 ; 

consists  in  a  virtuous  life,  300; 
not  craftiness  nor  hypocrisy,  309; 
shown  in  a  proper  way  of  behav- 
ing,  to    persons   of  all    estates, 

3"- 

Withdrawal,    a    severe    punishment, 

394f  396;   success  of,  396. 

"  Without,"  means  Greeks,  310. 

Witness,  God  an  unseen,  332. 

Women,  who  labored  with  St.  Paul, 
recommended  to  care,  244;  some 
warned  to  amend,'  or  not  to  come 
into  the  Church,  293;  adorn 
their  hair  with  trinkets  of  gold, 
307 ;  excessive  mourning  of,  349 ; 
one  taken,  another  left,  356; 
eating  their  own  children,  358. 

Word,  The,  appeared  as  Man,  not  to 
change  from  being  God,  or  to  be 
a  Phantom,  but  to  be  an  example 
of  humility,  214-15. 

Words,  idle,  will  be  punished,  228; 
terrible  enough  without  further 
explanation,  384;  love  must  be 
more  than,  393. 

Work,  of  faith,  what,  324,  385;  of 
hands,  how  made  spiritual,  348. 

Works,  of  darkness,  what,  362;  good 
do  not  make  prayers  for  us  need- 
less, 393;  love  of  God  to  be 
shown  in,  ib. ;  tradition  through, 

394. 
World,  the,  thought  a  God  by  some, 

360;   end  of,  see  Consummation, 

etc. 

Wrath,  the,  of  God,  against  Jews, 
334;  of  God,  testimonies  of, 
358;   to  be  forborne,  343. 

Wrong,  the  doers  of,  pitiable,  368; 
how  to  revenge,  367 ;  more  cruel 
when  with  contempt,  370. 

Yokefellow,  brother  or  husband  of 
some  one  at  Philippi,  244. 

Young  men,  to  be  kept  from  fornica- 
tion, 346;  are  able  to  resist  the 
temptation,  347;  blamed  for 
going  to  theaters,  ib. 

Zeal,  makes  up   for  late    beginning, 

325- 
Zeba,  example  of  flattery,  205. 


HOMILIES 


ON 


PHILIPPIANS,  COLOSSIANS,  AND  THESSALONIANS. 


INDEX  OF  TEXTS.* 


PAGB 

PAGB 

PAGB 

PAGE 

Gen.  i.  II     ... 

.     354  Cant.  ii.  10  .     .     . 

•      352 

Luke  xv.  18. 

.  .  .  238 

2  Cor.  ii.  4    .     .     .     .    254 

i.  26     .     .     .     . 

.     283 

Isa.  i.  19,  20.     .     . 

•      347 

xvi.  9  . 

.  .  .   185 

ii.  6,  8     . 

396 

i.  27     .     .     ,     , 

.     318           ix.  6  .     .     .     . 

207 

xyii.  34,  3 

15  •    •    356 

•  -   369 

viii.  9  .     . 

206 

ii.  17    .     .     .     . 

.     286 

xl.  15     .    .    . 

2IO 

xix.  8 .     . 

xi.  2    .     . 

3H 

ii.  18    .     .     .     . 

•     319 

liii.  12    .     .     . 

■      215 

xxii.  35 

.   .    .   228 

xi.  8    .     . 

332 

iv.  14   ...     . 

•    359 

Jer.  iv.  4 .     .     .    . 

.      230 

xxiii.  40  . 

.  .  215 

Gal.  i.  13       .     . 

231 

vi.  4     .     .     .     , 

-    357 

vii.  16    ...     . 

326 

John  i.  13    .     . 

.  .  283 

ii.  20     .     . 

195 

viii.  21 .     .     .     , 

.    252 

xx.  7      ... 

.      284 

v.  43  •     - 

-  378, 389 

iii.  13    .     . 

» 

xxiv.  65     .     . 

-    3i7 

Ezek.  ix.  8    .     .     . 

•      327 

vi.  67  .     . 

•   •   293 

iii.  27    .     . 
111.  28    .     . 

xxviii.  13  .     .     , 

283 

xxiv.  18  .     .    , 

327 

x.  28   .     , 

.    .    .    209 

318 

xxxvii.  20 .     .     . 

•    343 

Dan.  ii.  30   .     .     .    . 

205 

xi.  49  .     . 

.   .   274 

iv.  9.     .     , 

284 

xlii.  36 .     .     .     , 

,    299 

Tob.  xii.  9    .     .     . 

.      202 

xiii.  12     . 

.    .    214 

vi.  14     .     . 

19 

5»242 

xlviii.  15,  16  .     , 

•     273 

Ecclus.  x.  12,  13    . 

•      378 

xiv.  27     , 

•   .  273 

Eph.  i.  10     .     . 

272 

Ex.  xiv.  15    .     .     .     . 

.     302 

xviii.    13    . 

20I 

xvii.  1-5  . 

•   •   325 

iv.  26  .     . 

343 

xvi.  3     .     .     .     , 

278 

xix,  14,  15 

■      392 

Acts    i.  7     .     , 

.    .    360 

iv.  29  .     . 

233 

xxxii.  19      .     .     . 

.     278 

xxxi.  1  .     . 

I92 

i.  9      •     • 

•   .   356 

v.  30    . 

3«9 

xxxii.  32  Sept.     , 

•    327 

Matt.  v.  9     .     .     . 

.      249 

iii.  12 .     . 

.    .    205 

vi.  12,  14. 

336 

Lev.  xxiv.  20     .     .     , 

.    278 

v.  29  .     .     .     , 

•      297 

iv.  32  .     . 

.    .    260 

vi.  21,  22. 

310 

Deut.  xxiii.  13  .     .     , 

.     279 

v.  32   .     .     . 

•    345 

»v.  32,  35 

.  .   331 

Phil.   i.  23,  24  . 

■    3i6 

1  Sam.  iii.  1 .     .     . 

•    327 

vi.  11  .     .     . 

.    252 

v.  29  .     . 

•   •   309 

ii.  5-7.     . 

.    206 

xii.  23    .     .     . 

.    326 

vi.  24 .     .     . 

211 

v.  41    .     . 

.  246, 325 

ii.  20  .     . 

•    323 

2  Sam.  xii.  23    .     .     , 

-    299 

vi.  26 .     .     . 

.    218 

vii.  20 

.   .   299 

ii.  23  .     . 

323 

xxi.  17  .     .     , 

•    391 

vii.  14      .     .• 

•    364 

xii.  5  .     . 

. 326, 391 

ii.  26  .     . 

.     182 

1  Kings  xvii.  12     .     , 

,     187 

x.  11,13.     • 

■    274 

xii.  8  .     . 

.    .    228 

iv.  15  .     . 

.     187 

2  Kings  vi.  28  .     .     , 

.    358 

x.  13-15  .     . 

.    274 

xiii.  10     . 

.    .    3" 

Col.  i.  23  .     . 

•    257 

ix.  34  .     . 

.    326 

x.  41    .     .     . 

.     187 

xiv.  15     . 

.    .    205 

...  ^ 
111.  6.     . 

.    362 

xx.  6    .     . 

•     197 

xv.  27 .     .     . 

.    230 

xvi.  7  .     . 

.    .    334 

2  Thess.  iii.  7 

■    396 

Job  i.  5    .     .     .     . 

.     197 

xvi.  24     .     . 

.    242 

xvii.  5,  6 , 

•    •    324 

iii.  17, 

ii 

i 

•    377 

i.  10,  ii,  Sept. 

•     340 

xviii.  10  .     . 

■    273 

xvii.  22    ., 

.    .     3" 

1  Tim.  ii.  4  . 

.    282 

i.  21  .     .     .     .26 

>5»  337 

xix.  23,  24    . 

-     374 

xx.  25,  34 

t    .    .    249 

v.  5    . 

•3f 

JI.404 

ii.  9  .     .     .     .22 

:i,340 

xx.  18.     .     . 

.    392 

xx.  31 

.    .    .    316 

v.  10. 

•    351 

vi.  7 .     .     .     . 

221 

xxiv.  27   .     . 

■     378 

xx.  35      . 

•    .348,355 

v.  18. 

.    228 

vii.  5      .     .     . 

221 

xxiv.  40,  41  . 

•    356 

xxi.  13     . 

.    .     342 

v.  23. 

vii.  14,  4    .     . 

221 

xxiv.  42    .     . 

.     361 

xxviii.  30 

.    .    228 

2  Tim.  ii.  10 . 

•   ^5 

xi.  6 .     .     .     . 

222 

xxv.  34,  35  • 

.    208 

Rom.  iv.  2    .     , 

.    .    204 

iv.  7  . 

-   238 

xxx.  1     .     .     . 

222 

xxv.  40     .     . 

.    320 

iv.  21  . 

.    .    .    279 

iv.  13 

.   228 

xiii.  8    .     .     . 

.    326 

xxvi.  21    .     . 

210 

ix.  3    . 

.    .    317 

Tit.  ii.  13      . 

.   207 

Ps.  ii.  1 1  .     .     .     . 

219 

xxvi.  63,  64  . 

.     286 

xii.  16 

.    .     217 

Heb.  iv.  12  . 

206 

vi.  5    .     .     .     . 

.     196 

xxvii.  40  .     . 

.     286 

xii.  20 

.    .    .    200 

x.  1 .     . 

•   277 

xiv.  1  .     .     .     . 

.    300 

xxviii.  20 .     . 

•    395 

xii.  8  .     , 

,    .    .     188 

xii.  14  . 

•   347 

xxiii.  3    .     .     . 

211 

xxviii.  19,  20 

•    396 

1  Cor.v.  11  . 

.    .    .    396 

xiii.  4  . 

.   319 

xxv.  14    .     .     . 

.    248 

Mark  vi.  18  .     .     . 

.    205 

vii.  5  . 

.    .    .    346 

xiii.  17 

.   209 

xxxviii.   5     .     . 

.     300              vii.  11.     .     . 

211 

ix.  15  . 

.    .    .    250 

Rev.   i.  16    . 

.   206 

Prov.  xxvi.  12    .     . 

.     217              ix.  44.     .     .. 

•     345 

xiv.  35 

•    •    •     397 

xxx.  8 .     .     . 

.     336 

Luke  x.  8     .     .     . 

.     274 

2  Cor.  i.  1 1     . 

.    .    .     391 

Cant.  i.  3.     .     .     . 

.     303               xiv.  12-14    .  2( 

*>,  374 

i.  23    . 

.     .     .     224 

*  [The  Oxford  editi 

on  iqcIu 

des  all  texts  merely  guot 

ed,  whic 

h  are  very  numerc 

•us.     Only  tho! 

x  are  here  given  « 

hie 

h  C 

fcrysos- 

torn  has  to  some  extent  explained. — J.  A.  B.] 


HOMILIES 


ON 


THE  EPISTLES  TO  TIMOTHY,  TITUS,  AND  PHILEMON 


INDEX  OF  SUBJECTS. 


Aaron,  those  that  rebelled  against, 
perished,  482. 

Abraham,  riches  of,  in  what  they  con- 
sisted, 447;  concealed  his  pur- 
pose about  Isaac,  458. 

Activity,  needful  in  our  spiritual 
course,  517. 

Adam,  in  what  sense  not  deceived, 

435- 
Admonition,  not  meant  to  grieve,  but 

to  correct,  414. 

Age,  failings  of,  531. 

Aged,  the,  not  to  be  rebuked  but  ad- 
vised, 450. 

Alexander,  persecuted  St  Paul,  514. 

Almsgiving,  blessings  of,  455 ;  objects 
of,  ib.;  communion  in,  479;  fail- 
ure in,  enough  to  cast  into  hell, 
498;  must  become  a  habit,  499; 
mercifully  ordained,  ib.;  meant 
to  detach  from  love  of  riches, 
542;  effects  of,  extend  to  all,  ib.  ; 
the  chief  of  virtues,  ib,;  the 
mother  of  love,  ib.;  the  ladder 
fixed  to  heaven,  ib. 

Alms,  to  be  dispensed  by  ourselves, 
455;  make  way  for  prayer,  479; 
of  no  avail  if  from  wrongful  gains, 
498 ;  to  avail,  must  be  of  our  own, 
500;  a  good  inheritance,  504; 
benefit  the  giver  more  than  the 
receiver,  541 ;  bind  together  the 
body  of  Christ,  542;  blessed  ef- 
fects of,  ib. 

Androgeus,  story  of,  538. 

Angels,  saw  the  Son,  with  men, 
through  the  Incarnation,  442; 
Timothy  charged  before  the,  464; 
the  elect,  who,  ib. 

Apostleship,  dignity  of  the,  408. 

Apostles,  preaching  of  the,  assailed, 
not  their  lives,  439 ;  power  of  the, 
516;  power  of  our  Lord  exercised 
through,  517  (note);  manner  of 
life  of,  523. 

Appearing,  the  love  of  the,  of  Christ, 
512. 

Apphia,  547. 

Aratus,  quoted  by  St  Paul,  528. 


Archippus,  547. 

Asia,  Church  and  people  of,  com- 
mitted to  Timothy,  461 ;  many 
in  Rome  from,  484. 

Athenians,  admitted  new  gods,  528. 

Avarice,  a  lust,  430;  inexcusable, 
536. 

Balaam,  a  prophet,  though  a  wicked 
man,  482. 

Barochabel,  551  (note). 

Baptism,  the  anointing  of,  415. 

Baths,  considered  too  luxurious  for 
very  devout  persons,  499  (note). 

Beauty,  right  use  of,  421;  increases 
trials  of  modesty,  422;  want  of, 
no  reproach,  ib.;  has  no  advan- 
tages, ib. ;  imaginary,  not  in  na- 
ture of  things,  479;  moral,  alone 
real,  ib. 

Bishopric,  of  those  who  desire  a,  522. 

Bishop,  character  of  a,  437;  office  of, 
may  be  desired  from  love  to  the 
Church,  ib.;  vigilant,  438;  to  be 
instant  in  his  duties  night  and 
day,  ib.;  the  husband  of  one 
wife,  437,  438  (note);  must  be 
blameless,  438;  apt  to  teach, 
ib. ;  no  smiter,  ib. ;  not  to  smite 
the  consciences  of  others,  ib.; 
why  the  highest  attainments  not 
required  of,  439;  one  to  preside 
in  every  city,  438;  to  exhibit 
good  order  in  his  own  house, 
439»  n°t  to  be  a  new  convert, 
ib. ;  must  be  well  reported  of  all, 
ib. 

Bishops,  must  know  how  to  manage 
their  household,  408;  superior  to 
priests  only  in  power  of  ordina- 
tion, 441 ;  set  over  and  to  be 
feared  by  all,  461;  continually 
slandered  wrongfully,  522:  dan- 
gers and  difficulties  of,  ib. ;  must 
regard  their  health  for  the 
Church's  sake,  523. 

Blasphemy,   produced   by   ill   living, 

532. 
Books,  of  St.  Paul,  514. 


Brutality,  of  mankind  before  Christ's 

coining,  538. 
Bulimy,  disease  called,  502. 

Cain,  offense  of,  498. 

Canker,  false  doctrine  compared  to  a, 

493. 
Children,  good  bringing  up  of,  brings 

its  own  reward,  436;  great  re- 
sponsibilities of  those  who  have, 
437;  to  be  well  trained  from  the 
first,  ib. ;  greatest  care  to  be  taken 
in  choice  of  tutors  for,  ib. 
Children,   The   Three,    example   of, 

543- 
Christ,  great  strength  required  to  bear 

the  name  of,  416;  true  disciples 
of,  the  admiration  of  angels,  417; 
apathy  of  men  towards,  418; 
friends  preferred  before,  ib. ; 
died  for  the  heathen,  431;  His 
suffering  a  testimony,  ib. ,  mean- 
ing of  His  directions  about 
prayer  (Matt.  vi.  6),  432;  love 
of,  not  returned  by  us,  431 ; 
should  put  us  to  shame,  ib. ;  con- 
descension of,  463;  sacramental 
union  with,  464;  the  good  con- 
fession, 471;  unoriginated,  ib.; 
cannot  be  seen  in  His  divine 
apart  from  His  human  nature, 
ib.,  note;  the  cross  of,  a  remedy 
against  shame,  480;  power  of, 
shown  when  His  servants  are 
oppressed,  491;  dying  with,  a 
pledge  of  life  with,  492;  how  to 
suffer  for,  512;  why  ministered 
to  by  others,  542. 

"Christ,  through,"  meaning  of  the 
phrase,  418. 

Christians,  must  learn,  and  obey,  and 
doubt  not,  410;  not  freed  only 
from  punishment,  but  gifted  with 
immense  privileges,  418;  must 
not  pray  against  each  other,  427 ; 
engaged  in  a  contest,  424;  bid 
to  pray  everywhere,  432;  bad, 
hinder  conversion  of  heathen, 
440;  how  dead  with  Christ,  492; 


5«6 


HOMILIES  ON  TIMOTHY,  TITUS,  AND  PHILEMON. 


should   be   prepared   for   every- 
thing, 496. 

Church,  different  stations  in  the,  as  in 
an  army,  424;  the,  a  household, 
439;  a  pillar  of  truth  in  the 
world,  442 ;  maintains  the  preach- 
ing of  the  word,  442;  makes 
known  the  Incarnation,  id.; 
those  directing  the,  assailed  with 
difficulty,  475;  equality  in  the, 
547;  knows  no  distinctions  of 
rank,  548. 

Claudia,  516. 

Clergy,  to  be  maintained,  460;  not  to 
be  stinted,  id. ;  not  to  spare  them- 
selves, id. 

Cloak,  of  St.  Paul  left  at  Troas,  513. 

Commandment,  matters  of,  449;  not 
left  to  choice,  521. 

Committed,  things  to  us,  imply  that 
they  are  not  our  own,  but  to  be 
kept  with  care,  424. 

Communicants,  unworthy,  delivered 
by  God  to  Satan,  425. 

Communion,  Holy,  careless  prepara- 
tion for,  reproved,  425 ;  one  un- 
worthy partaking  of,  presump- 
tion, id. 

Condescension,  of  God  to  man's  weak- 
ness, 529. 

Conduct,  of  others,  not  to  be  judged, 
but  our  own,  482. 

Conscience,  a  good,  brings  rejoicing, 
446;  a  pure,  a  blameless  life, 
476;  torments  of  a  bad,  494;  an 
impure,  defiles  all  things,  530. 

Contentious  persons,  to  be  avoided, 
468. 

Contest,  those  out  of  the,  sometimes 
cause  of  the  victory  to  those  who 
gain  it,  485. 

Controversy,  some  unavoidable,  541. 

Conversion,  none  without  practical 
holiness,  440. 

Corah,  insurrection  of,  482. 

Corinthian,  case  of  incestuous,  424. 

Counsels,  of  perfection,  521. 

Courtesans,  tinery  of,  433. 

Covetousness,  admits  no  friendship, 
469;  cure  of,  470;  to  be  brought 
under  by  the  will,  id.;  self-love 
source  of,  501 ;  evils  arising  from, 
id. 

Creature,  none  unclean,  445. 

Cretans,  who  said  they  were  liars,  528; 
to  be  sharply  rebuked,  529. 

Cross,  the  greatest  sign  of  God's  love, 
479 ;  a  rebuke  to  mistaken  shame, 
480;  sign  of  the,  use  of,  499. 

Crown,  of  righteousness,  512;  in  store 
for  all  saints,  id. 

Cynophontis,  festival  of,  at  Argos, 
470  (note). 

Daniel,  humility  of,  553. 
Daphne,  burning  of,  508  (note). 
Daughters,  to  be   trained  religiously 

for  marriage,  437. 
David,  his  love  for  Jonathan,  503; 

humility  of,  553. 
Day  uf  Judgment,  not  borne  in  mind, 

462. 
Deacons,  qualities  for,  441 ;   trial  of, 

id. ;  same  virtues  required  of,  as 


of  bishops,  id. ;  temporal  minis- 
try of,  442  (note). 

Deaconesses,  441 ;  necessary  and  use- 
ful to  the  Church,  id. 

Death,  in  a  monastery,  457. 

Demas,  chose  his  own  ease  before 
danger,  513,  556. 

Desires,  foolish,  469;  as  thorns,  id. 

Despisers  of  their  brethren,  despise 
God,  501. 

Devil,  his  rage  greater  against  the 
shepherd  than  the  flock,  409. 

Devils,  abhor  the  unguent  of  the 
Spirit,  415;  divinations  of,  con- 
demned and  defied,  508. 

Disputes,  contagious,  467,  493. 

Distinctions,  spiritual  to  be  sought 
for,  444. 

Divinations,  failure  in,  508;  sin  to 
have  recourse  to,  id. 

Divine  things  not  to  be  measured  by 
human  reason,  479. 

Doctrine,  corrupt,  engendered  by  an 
evil  life,  419;  orthodox,  useless 
without  a  corresponding  life,  429 ; 
false,  a  growing  evil,  493. 

Doxology,  inference  of  heretics  from 
(1  Tim.  i.  17),  disproved,  421. 

Dramas  of  the  heathens  filled  with 
abominations,  538. 

Dress,  finery  in,  gives  occasion  of 
offense,  434. 

Drunkenness,  drowns  the  soul,  451. 

Duties,  plain  neglect  of,  a  denial  of 
the  Faith,  453. 

Earnestness,  taught  by  the  Epistle 
to  Philemon,  546. 

Elders,  bishops  called,  524. 

Eli,  perished  for  neglecting  his  chil- 
dren, 436. 

Eloquence,  inferior  to  strength  of 
mind,  525. 

Encratites,  not  often  mentioned  by 
St.  Chrys.  444  (note) ;  mentioned 
by  Clem.  Al.  etc.,  id. 

Envy  of  men  passes  on  to  Christ, 
419. 

Elect,    sufferings    endured    for    the, 

489. 
Epaphroditus,  infirmity  of,  515. 
Epimenides,  528  (note). 
Epiphany,  meaning  of,  512. 
Episcopate,  dangers  of  the,  522. 
Epistles,  occasional,  not  superfluous, 

545- 
Ephesus,  false  Judaizing  apostles  at, 

410. 

Error,  never  stops,  yet  never  ad- 
vances, 506. 

Essence,  no  dissimilarity  in  the  Di- 
vine, 409. 

Eucharist,  Holy,  always  a  Holy  Pass- 
over, 425;  the  same,  whether 
offered  by  common  men  or  by 
Paul,  &c,  483. 

Evangelist,  the  work  of  an,  511. 

Eve,  bad  teaching  of,  436. 

Excommunication,  a  proof  of  the 
Apostles'  power,  425. 

Exercise,  bodily,  spoken  of  by  St. 
Paul,  not  fasting,  445;  spiritual, 
id.  (note),  446;  spiritual,  re- 
warded, 447. 


Fables,  what  St.  Paul  means  by,  410; 
Jewish  traditions  such,  445. 

Faith,  excludes  questioning,  410;  sets 
reasoning  at  rest,  id.;  excludes 
not  prayer  for  knowledge,  id.; 
objects  of  being  divine  to  be  re- 
vered not  questioned,  id.;  ad- 
herence to  the,  safeguard  against 
false  opinions,  41 1 ;  earthly  things 
depend  on,  id. ;  exacted  by  hea- 
thens, id.;  produces  love, 412;  a 
safe  ship,  424;  without  a  good 
life  unavailing,  id.;  apostates 
from  the,  have  no  stay,  id.;  an 
unshaken  rock,  472;  dead,  505; 
common  to  all,  522. 

Faithful,  should  assist  each  other, 
485. 

Family,  the,  a  model  for  all  govern- 
ment, 535. 

Fasting,  cleanses  in  vain  if  we  return 
to  sin,  426;  useless  without  alms, 

498. 

Fate,  doctrine  of,  excludes  responsi- 
bility, 41 1;  arguments  against 
doctrine  of,  id. 

Father,  a  bad,  unfit  to  be  a  bishop, 

524. 
Fear,  prevents  quarrels,  427;    utility 

of,  462;    love  opposed  to,  477; 

of  God,  a  firm  foundation,  513. 
Fight,  the  Christian,  511. 
Flesh,  those  called,  whose  souls  are 

dead,  452. 
Food,  spiritual,  445. 
Forgiveness  of  injuries,  427,  428;  pe- 
culiar to  Christians,  427;   brings 

gain  here,  549. 
Form,  used  in  a  good  and  in  a  bad 

sense,  505. 
Free  will,  not  taken  away  by  grace, 

418. 
Friendship,  benefits  of,  412;  of  David 

and  Jonathan,  503;   among  the 

wicked,  412. 
Freedom,  Christian,    causes    greater 

faithfulness  in  serving,  465. 
Funeral,  in  a  monastery,  457. 

Gamaliel,  appears  free  from  ambition, 

417. 
Garlands,  worn  by  bridegrooms,  whv, 

437- 
Garments,  vanity  of  worldly,  414. 

Gentiles,  tenets  of,  human,  and  so  to 
be  examined,  410. 

Gentleness,  comes  from  thinking  what 
we  once  were,  537. 

Gift,  given  to  Timothy  for  working 
miracles,  etc.,  477. 

Glory  of  the  world  useless,  414;  of 
the  saints  internal,  id.;  real,  de- 
scribed, 490;  a  hard  taskmaster, 

527. 
Gluttony,  disgusting  effects  of,  452; 

unnatural  to  the  body,  id. ;  nau- 
sea succeeds,  453 ;  evils  of,  451. 

Gnostics,  the  name  of  assumed  by 
pretenders  to  great  knowledge, 
472. 

God,  blessings  of,  not  conceived  by 
reasoning,  410;  knowledge  of, 
presupposes  faith,  id. ;  belief  in, 
destroys  notions  of  fate  and  na- 


HOMILIES  ON  TIMOTHY,  TITUS,  AND  PHILEMON. 


587 


tivity,  41 1;  takes  earthly  gifts 
away,  to  lead  men  to  heaven, 
412;  gifts  of,  so  great  as  to  he 
incredible,  419;  how  to  be  glo- 
rified, 421;  to  be  honored  by 
works,  422;  longsuffering  of,  an 
example  to  ourselves,  428;  good- 
ness of,  to  His  enemies,  ib.  ;  not 
to  be  approached  in  costly  orna- 
ments, 433;  willeth  salvation  of 
all,  therefore  men  must  pray  for 
all,  430;  threatens  in  mercy,  461 ; 
to  be  loved  not  from  fear  of  hell, 
but  from  desire  of  His  kingdom, 
462;  union  of  man  jwith,  in 
Christ,  463 ;  the  best  Master,  but 
ill  served,  465 ;  acts  through  evil 
men,  482;  threatens  in  mercy, 
485 ;  why  He  defers  punishment, 
486;  His  work  not  impaired  by 
the  instrument,  483;  appeal  to, 
full  of  awe,  492;  charging  be- 
fore, 493;  His  doings  too  deep 
for  the  curious,  507;  His  power 
shown  in  man's  weakness,  515; 
teaches  men  through  that  which 
they  know,  528;  our  Creditor, 
549;   goodness  of,  in  punishing, 

556>  557- 
Godliness,  mystery  of,  442;   exercise 

of,  445 ;  a  means  of  gain,  but  not 
worldly,  468;  beautiful  in  its  own 
nature,  470;  requires  daily  nour- 
ishment of  good  works,  486;  the 
truth,  according  to,  520. 

Gold,  good  for  almsgiving,  432;  to 
be  used  in  loosing  captives,  not 
in  enslaving  the  soul,  ib. ;  bonds 
of,  tend  to  the  chains  of  hell,  ib. ; 
not  to  be  worn  by  penitents,  433. 

Good,  best  done  in  person,  455;  real, 
may  be  seized  by  all,  51 7. 

Goods,  named  from  use,  443;  in- 
herited, not  preserved  without 
trouble,  447;  worldly,  destroyed 
in  a  moment,  ib.;  spiritual,  not 
gained  without  labor  and  pain, 
446. 

Good  works,  perseverance  in,  485. 

Gospel,  why  called  glorious,  414;  gifts 
of,  not  of  mercy  only,  but  of  love 
and  affection,  418;  justice  and 
mercy  meet  only  in  the,  420; 
that  committed  to  us,  481;  vic- 
torious through  sufferings,  489. 

Government,  an  appointment  of  God, 
426. 

Grace,  indwelling  and  aiding,  516; 
how  gained,  ib. 

Grace  and  free  will,  520. 

Graces,  Christian,  true  ornaments,  444. 

Gratitude,  God  glorified  in,  554. 

Habit,  force  of,  499. 

Hands,  employed  in  almsgiving,  holy, 

432. 
Health,  to  be  prized  above   beauty, 

422. 
Heathen,  the,  to  be  prayed  for,  430 ; 

there  would  be  no,  if  Christians 

were  as  they  ought  to  be,  440; 

errors  of  the  wiser,  539. 
Heathenism,  testimony   of  heathens 

against,  528. 


Heaven,  to  be  won  by  pain  and  labor, 

5«7- 

Hell,  misery  of,  not  the  less  for  num- 
bers, 440;  prepared  by  God  be- 
cause of  His  goodness,  557. 

Herald,  duty  of  a,  521. 

Heresies,  want  of  brotherly  love,  the 
cause,  412;  arise  from  love  of 
power,  ib.;  foretold,  444;  propa- 
gated by  Jews,  475. 

Heretics,  to  be  prayed  for,  430;  on 
the  Church's  disapproval  of  put- 
ting to  death,  ib.  (note) ;  measure 
heavenly  things  by  human  rea- 
sonings, 479;  no  cause  of  of- 
fense, 504;  existed  from  the 
beginning,  ib. ;  arguing  with,  use- 
less, 540. 

Hermogenes,  484. 

Holiness,  the  best  converter  from 
heathenism,  440. 

Honesty  of  living,  in  what  consists, 
429. 

Honor,  dangerous,  526;  to  be  evad- 
ed when  offered,  527;  to  be  re- 
jected, 526. 

Hope,  no  real,  but  in  repentance, 
441. 

Hospitality,  must  be  cheerful,  454; 
kind  of,  intended   by  St.  Paul, 

525. 
Hours,  canonical,  of  prayer,  456. 

Household,  duty  of  regulating  our,  453. 

Humiliation,  our  utmost  due  to  Christ, 

554- 
Humility,  true,  rarely  to  be  met  with, 

416;  puffs  up  when  not  genuine, 

552;  Scripture  examples  of,  553. 

Husband,  how  to  win  a  heathen,  532. 

Idleness,  teacher  of  every  sin,  459. 

Immortality,  admits  not  of  degrees, 
421. 

Incarnation,  The,  called  The  dispen- 
sation, 442;  immense  mystery  of, 
ib. ;  mystery  of,  made  known  by 
the  Church,  ib. ;  doctrine  of,  to 
be  taught  with  discretion,  ib. 

Industry,   practiced    in    monasteries, 

456- 
Injustice,  bitterness  of,  to  those  who 

practice  it,  494. 

Insincerity,  pernicious  to  the  Church, 

441. 

Intemperance,  horrors  of,  452. 

Intercession,  priestly,  426;  advan- 
tages of,  ib.;  for  those  without 
never  to  be  relaxed,  ib. 

Isaac,  why  kept  in  ignorance  when 
about  to  be  slain,  458. 

Jacob,  had  wealth,  but  it  was  earned, 

447- 
Jannes  and  Jambres,  magicians  in  the 

time  of  Moses,  505. 

Jews,  crimes  of  the,  414;  had  no 
prayers  for  heathens,  431 ;  their 
great  stumbling  block,  the  love 
of  power,  417;  allowed  to  pray 
only  in  one  place,  432;  tenets 
of,  how  fables,  529. 

Job,  his  afflictions,  occasion  of  great 
good,  504;  his  alms  rewarded, 
ib. ;  his  patience,  5 1 2. 


Joseph,  won  the  confidence  of  a 
heathen  master,  J34;  honored  in 
prison,  ib. ;  a  ruler,  ib. 

Judas,  delivered  to  Satan,  425 ;  a  gold- 
en vessel  became  earthen,  496. 

Judgment,  day  of,  awfulness  of,  485 ; 
to  come,  a  cause  of  fear  to  all, 

494. 
Judging,  faculty  of,  implanted  in  us, 

495- 
Jugglers,  condemned,  509. 

Justice,  courts  of,  symbolical,  486; 
universal  on  earth,  though  in- 
complete, ib. 

Labarum,  the,  416  (note). 

I^abor,  worldly,  vain,  447. 

Law,  the,  lawful  use  of,  413;  if  used 
aright  sends  men  to  Christ,  ib. ; 
least  needed  by  those  who  keep 
it  best,  ib.;  necessary  for  the 
confirmation  of  the  Gospel,  414. 

Life,  a  corrupt,  produces  similar  doc- 
trine, 424;  heathens  admire  a 
good,  440;  known  from  death 
by  its  acts,  451 ;  true,  that  of  the 
soul,  452;  a  dream,  462;  eternal, 
to  be  won  only  by  great  labor, 
469;  eternal,  secured  by  good 
works,  572;  a  time  of  trial,  506. 

Linus,  when  Bishop  of  Rome,  516 
(note). 

Longsuffering  of  God,  to  lead  men 
to  repentance,  486. 

Lord's  Prayer,  for  all,  428;  every- 
thing contained  in,  ib. 

Love,  to  enemies,  possible,  419;  to 
man,  brings  love  to  God,  502. 

Luke,  St.,  always  adhered  to  St.  Paul, 

513. 

Lust,  all  inordinate  desire  is,  496. 

Lusts,  worldly,  536. 
Luxury,  danger  of,  446;  unworthy  of 
man,  45 1 ;  weakens  the  soul,  453. 

Magic,  condemned,  440. 
Man,  union  of,  with  God  in  Christ, 
464;    Scriptural  definition  of  a, 

452- 
Manes,  479. 

Manichees,  444  (note). 

Mansions,  heavenly  and  earthly  com- 
pared, 463. 

Marcion,  479. 

Marcionites,  444  (note). 

Marriage,  not  forbidden,  446;  he  that 
is  chaste  before,  will  be  so  after, 
and  vice  versa,  437;  those  who 
contracted  a  second,  ineligible 
for  the  episcopate,  524;  second 
objectionable,  ib.  ;  second,  better 
to  avoid,  503. 

Martyrdom,  original  idea  of,  479 
(note). 

Martyrs,  The  sacrifice  offered  on  the 
days  of,  425. 

Masks,  worn  on  the  stage,  527. 

Masters,  to  forbear  threatening,  465. 

Matrona,  cave  of,  529. 

Meat,  abstinence  from,  the  doctrine 
of  devils,  445. 

Meats,  typical,  446 ;  prohibited,  to  re- 
strain luxury,  ib. 

Mediator,  nature  and  office  of  a,  430 ; 


588 


HOMILIES  ON  TIMOTHY,  TITUS,  AND  PHILEMON. 


our  Lord  as,  must  have  two  na- 
tures, ib. 

Medicine,  spiritual,  495. 

Men,  of  flesh,  452. 

Mercy,  all  else  vain  without,  498;  of 
God,  men  chiefly  attracted  by, 
ib.;  of  God,  requires  mercy  in 
us,  556;  implies  ill  desert,  417; 
the  work  of  God,  498;  by  it  men 
resemble  God,  ib. 

Miracles,  not-  wrought  on  all  occa- 
sions, and  why,  515. 

Monastery,  death  and  sickness  in  a, 

457.. 
Monasteries,  house  of  mourning,  in 

what  sense,  455;    as   lights   to 

mariners,  456;   calm  and  peace 

of,  ib. ;  manner  of  life  passed  in, 

ib.;  morning,  in,  ib. 

Money,  loved  before  God,  502;  dif- 
ficulties undergone  to  gain,  ib.; 
lovers  of,  really  mad,  469;  love 
of,  seizes  all  classes,  470;  love  of, 
the  worse  as  not  a  natural  pas- 
sion, 536;  love  of,  the  root  of  all 
evils,  469;  given  for  relief  of 
the  poor,  ib.;  to  make  amends 
for  past  sins,  ib. ;  miseries  caused 
by,  ib. 

Monks,  sleep  not  naked,  456;  psalm- 
ody of,  ib. ;  industry,  meals,  and 
sleep  of,  457 ;  devotions  of  the, 
ib. 

Mortification,  for  the  sake  of  future 
blessings,  446. 

Mothers,  advice  to,  437. 

Mystery,  of  the  Incarnation,  442;  not 
to  be  treated  irreverently,  ib. 

Mysteries,  dignity  of  those  who  are 
entrusted  with,  442. 

Nature,  chief  blessings  of,  common 
to  all,  448. 

Nero,  compared  with  St.  Paul  in  the 
Resurrection,  491 ;  called  a  lion, 
514;  cupbearer  of,  converted  by 
St.  Paul,  ib. ;  compared  with  St. 
Paul,  490;  worshiped  as  a  God, 
ib.;  tomb  of,  unknown,  491. 

Nicopolis,  Titus  bid  to  come  to,  and 
why,  541;  which,  here  meant, 
ib.  (note). 

Nineveh,  saved  through  fear,  462. 

Novelties,  to  be  avoided,  493. 

Novices,  not  to  be  promoted  to  the 
episcopate,  439. 

Obedience,  follows  our  election,  520. 

Oil,  in  the  parable  of  virgins  taken 
for  almsgiving,  498;  for  good 
works  generally  by  St.  Jerome, 
and  St.  Augustin,  ib.  (note). 

Onesiphorus,  St.  Paul's  prayer  for, 
485;  his  kindness  to  St.  Paul, 
ib. 

Onesimus,  a  true  and  not  a  true 
son,  521 ;  a  son  begotten  in 
bonds,  551 ;  his  fault  overruled  to 
good,  552;  came  to  St.  Paul  at 
Rome,  545;  was  baptized  there, 
ib. 

Oppositions,  certain,  not  to  be  an- 
swered, 472. 

Orders,  Holy,  none  to  be  admitted  to, 


without  frequent  and  strict  ex- 
amination, 464. 

Ordinations,  responsibilities  of,  464. 

Ornaments,  of  the  body  to  be  avoided, 
422;  of  the  soul  alone  to  be 
sought  for,  423 ;  inconsistent  with 
penitence,  433;  suited  to  actors 
and  dancers,  not  to  Christians, 
ib. 

Ostentation,  in  prayer,  to  be  avoided, 

432- 

Paint,  condemned,  422. 

Parade,  in  religion  to  be  avoided,  527. 

Paradoxes  of  the  Gospel,  443. 

Parasceve,  Holy  Communion  cele- 
brated on  the,  425. 

Parents,  may  be  benefited  by  their 
children's  virtue,  436;  to  be  re- 
quited, and  how,  450. 

Paschal  Feast,  425. 

Passions,  the  most  cruel  tyrants,  473; 
evil,  worse  than  wild  beasts,  512. 

Patience,  in  teaching,  497;  shown 
from  the  fisher,  the  husbandman, 
ib. ;  all  may  exercise  for  Christ's 
sake,  512;  befits  the  aged,  532. 

Paul,  St.,  why  he  wrote  to  Timothy 
'and  Titus  only,  407;  mentions 
no  particular  age  for  the  episco- 
pate, ib. ;  instructions  to  Timothy, 
as  to  a  Teacher,  ib.;  appointed 
by  command  of  God,  408;  sent 
by  Father  and  Son,  ib.;  anxiety 
for  Timothy,  extended  to  care  for 
his  bodily  health,  409;  garments 
of,  cast  out  devils,  415;  humility 
of,  416;  always  conceals  his  own 
merit,  ib. ;  his  former  life,  dwelt 
upon  as  to  the  glory  of  God, 
417;  his  opposition  not  from 
ignorance,  but  from  zeal,  ib. ;  ig- 
norance of,  produced  by  unbe- 
lief, ib. ;  dwells  on  his  sinfulness 
to  extol  God's  mercy,  420;  right- 
eousness of,  under  the  law,  ib.  ; 
how  blameless,  ib.;  his  life  not 
impure,  but  compared  with  God's 
righteousness  worthless,  ib. ;  hu- 
mility in  describing  his  own  case, 
420 ;  ordained  for  the  Gentiles, 
431 ;  why  he  discourses  so  much 
of  dress,  433;  his  trials,  en- 
couragement to  others,  446;  de- 
tained in  prison,  480;  why  say 
so  often  that  he  was  a  teacher  of 
the  Gentiles,  ib. ;  gave  offense  to 
Nero,  484;  his  prayer  for  One- 
siphorus, 48  J ;  a  tent  maker,  490 ; 
his  name  celebrated  all  over  the 
world,  ib. ;  victorious  over  Nero, 
ib.;  his  tomb,  in  the  royal  city, 
its  splendor,  491 ;  his  glory  at 
the  Resurrection,  ib.;  no  em- 
peror ever  so  honored  as,  ib. ;  his 
travels,  51 1;  discourses  of  his 
own  death,  509;  his  death  a 
drink  offering,  51 1 ;  preached 
though  imprisoned,  513;  whole 
life  passed  in  afflictions,  507;  de- 
serted by  man,  supported  by  God", 
514;  cause  of  his  death,  ib.; 
more  powerful  than  Plato,  525; 
his  thorn  in  the  flesh,  515;  con- 


descension of,  532;  "  the  stigma- 
tized of  Christ,"  547. 

Peace,  worldly,  useless,  if  there  be 
war  in  the  heart,  429;  with  one's 
self  to  be  desired,  ib. 

Peacefulness,  duty  of  497. 

Perfection,  counsels  of,  521. 

Perfumes,  spiritual,  suitable  to  Chris- 
tians, 415. 

Persecutions,  afflictions,  sorrows, 
called,  506;  the  godly  must  suf- 
fer, ib. 

Persons,  in  the  Godhead  of  the  same 
substance,  not  distinct  in  nature, 

485e 

Peter,  St.,  crucified  with  his  head 
downwards,  493. 

Philemon,  argument  of  the  Epistle 
t°»  545;  ^is  household  a  Church, 
ib. ;  his  character  admirable,  ib. ; 
the  lessons  to  be  learned  from. 
Epistle  to,  546;  St.  Paul's  love 
to,  how  shown,  550. 

Philosophy,  a  life  of  pleasure  opposed 
to,  495. 

Phygellus,  484. 

Plato,  Republic  of,  539  (note). 

Pleasure,  bodily,  more  difficult  of  re- 
straint, 498. 

Pleasures,  certain,  agitate,  not  pro- 
ductive of  calm,  415. 

Pomp,  absurd  and  despicable,  443. 

Poor,  the,  are  our  benefactors,  455; 
men  must  become,  if  they  would 
be  rich,  443;  benefits  of  visiting 
the,  456. 

Possessions,  contention  introduced  by, 
448. 

Poverty,  to  stand  in  need  of  others  is, 

443. 

Power,  of  Christ's  servants  insuper- 
able, 490. 

Praise,  vanity  of  human,  526. 

Prayer,  cursing  cannot  exist  with,  427; 
not  limited  to  one  place,  433 ;  for 
heathens,  heretics,  430;  without 
alms,  unfruitful,  498;  always  to 
be  joined  with  giving  of  thanks, 
427;  against  another,  sinfulness 
of,  ib.;  of  Jews,  how  distinguished 
from  Christians,  432;  monastic 
hours  of,  456;  preservative  of 
our  souls,  556;  must  be  free  from 
all  passion,  433;  from  all  doubt- 
ing, ib. ;  power  of,  430. 

Prayers,  for  heathen  princes,  agree- 
able to  rules  of  justice,  426;  to 
be  offered  for  all  men,  427;  for 
heathen  princes,  and  why,  426. 

Preacher,  duty  of  a,  428. 

Preaching,  difficulties  of,  461 ;  good, 
advantageous  to  the  Church,  ib.  ; 
pompous  language  not  necessary 
for,  ib. 

Presbyters,  why  St.  Paul  gives  no  di- 
rections to,  441 ;  no  great  differ- 
ence between,  and  Bishops,  ib. 

Presumption  comes  of  ignorance,  467. 

Pride,  aroused  by  ignorance,  467. 

Priest,  commanding  belongs  to  a,  449; 
the,  as  it  were  a  common  father 
of  all  the  world,  426;  his  office 
to  be  honored  for  God's  sake, 
481;    they  that  honor  him,  will 


HOMILIES  ON  TIMOTHY,  TITUS,  AND  PHILEMON. 


589 


honor  God,  ib. ;  if  he  teach  her- 
esy not  to  be  obeyed,  482;  a,  by 
his  office,  a  spiritual  father,  483; 
intercession  of,  ib. ;  wicked,  im- 
pairs not  God's  work,  481;  an 
angel  of  the  Lord,  ib.  ;  his  words, 
not  his  own,  but  God's,  482;  God 
worketh  through  evil,  483. 

Priesthood,  dignity  of  the,  423;  re- 
sponsibility of  the,  483  (note). 

Priests,  anointing  of,  typical  of  in- 
ward virtue,  415;  but  instruments 
of  God,  483;  Christ  in  His,  their 
words  His,  id. 

Principles  for  solving  difficulties  of 
God's  doings,  507. 

Priscilla,  her  zeal,  515. 

Proclamation*  the  Gospel  a,  from  God, 
521. 

Promise  of  God  eternal,  520. 

Prophets,  false,  511. 

Prophecy,  not  of  future  things  only, 
but  of  present,  423;  used  of 
teaching,  449. 

Prosperity,  real,  shared  fairly  even 
now  by  good  and  bad,  411. 

Psalmody,  of  the  monks,  456. 

Punishment,  the  saints  rejoice  not  in, 
of  the  evil,  but  the  Gospel  re- 
quires it,  514;  all  who  will  may 
escape,  557. 

Pure,  all  things  pure  to  the,  529. 

Purification,  many  means  of,  549. 

Purity,  in  what  it  consists,  433 ;  true, 
cannot  be  defiled  from  without, 
530;  what  real,  consists  in,  499; 
outward,  attainable  by  the  most 
wicked,  ib. 

Questioning,  uselessness  of,  467;  in- 
consistent with  faith,  ib. 

Ransom,  meaning  of,  431. 

Reasoning,  evil  effects  of,  424. 

Reading,  diligent,  necessary  for  teach- 
ers, 450. 

Rebuke,  offensive,  especially  of  the 
old,  450;  careful  enquiry  neces- 
sary before,  461. 

Regeneration,  by  grace,  538. 

Relations,  affection  to,  necessary,  453; 
cannot  be  neglected  without  de- 
nial of  the  faith,  ib. 

Religion,  to  be  without  show,  or  pa- 
ra* k\  527. 

Repetition,  of  the  same  subjects  not 
annoying  to  those  who  practice 
them,  42S. 

Reproof,  discretion  required  for,  450; 
to  lie  tempered  with  exhortation, 
510. 

Republic  of  Plato,  539  (note). 

Resurrection,  of  those  who  said  it 
was  past,  493. 

Retribution,  not  here,  but  hereafter, 
41 1;  future,  accounts  for  pros- 
perity of  the  wicked,  ib. 

Reward,  of  teachers,  488;  proved  by 
various  illustrations,  ib. 

Rich  man,  a,  how  he  can  be  good,  448. 

Rich,  those  who  will  be,  blamed,  468; 
the,  in  this  world,  472;   duties  of 
the,  ib. 

Riches,  do  not  please  of  themselves 


but  by  means  of  covetousness, 
431 ;  to  be  despised,  443;  true, 
ib. ;  not  our  own,  ib. ;  how  to 
take  hence  with  us,  ib. ;  love  of, 
cannot  exist  with  desire  of  heav- 
enly things,  ib. ;  beneath  the  care 
of  Christians,  447;  never  justly 
gathered,  ib. 

Righteous,  allowed  to  be  rich,  rather 
than  made  so,  by  God,  412;  pe- 
culiarly called  men  of  God,  472. 

Righteousness  the  true  purifier,  499. 

Robbers,  tremble  at  judgment,  495. 

Robe,  to  be  sought  by  Christians,  414. 

Rome,  Christians  at,  probably  men  of 
consequence,  513. 

Rulers,  spotlessness  required  in,  438; 
Jewish,  sinned  not  in  ignorance, 

417. 

Sabbath  Day,  distinguished  from 
Lord's  Day,  425. 

Sacrifice,  The,  mystery  of,  always  the 
same,  425 ;  no  limit  of  time  for 
the  celebration  of,  ib. 

Sacrifice  of  goods  rewarded  in  this 
life,  443. 

Saints,  various  as  jewels,  458;  many 
ways  of  becoming,  ib.  ;  conflicts 
of  the,  shared  by  aiding  them, 
484;  their  present  honor  a  sign 
of  future,  491 ;  ever  mixed  with 
the  wicked,  504;  pleasantry  of 
the,  has  serious  meaning,  555; 
infirmities  of  the,  why  permitted, 

5*5- 
Satan,  offending  Christians  delivered 

to,  and  why,  424;   made  subject 

to  the  Apostles,  425. 

Saturn,  plain  of,  in  Cilicia,  529. 

Scripture,  accuracy  of,  430;  foily  of 
thinking  any  superfluous,  546. 

Scriptures,  Holy,  called  sacred  writ- 
ings, 507;  thorough  knowledge 
of,  prevents  offense,  ib. ;  store- 
house of  instruction,  510. 

Seal  of  Christians,  494. 

Secrecy,  in  sinning,  548. 

Self-command,  real  power,  unfailing, 

472. 

Self-denial,  grudging  men  exact  ex- 
treme, 523. 

Self-examination,  482. 

Self-preference,  sin  of,  482. 

Sensuality  leads  to  hatred,  539. 

Sedans,  470  (note). 

Sermons,  better  not  to  hear,  than  not 
to  derive  benefit  from,  428;  wea- 
riness in  hearers  caused  by  un- 
willingness to  practice  what  they 
hear,  ib. 

Servants,  advice  to,  533  sq. ;  may 
gain  the  regard  of  the  worst 
masters,  534;  should  continue 
in  service,  546. 

Service,  daily,  426. 

Services  of  God  and  mammon  con- 
trasted, 473. 

Sepulchre,  the  body  a,  when  the  soul 
is  dead,  499. 

Shame,  sufferings  no  cause  for,  481 ; 
causes  of  false,  493. 

Sickness,  in  a  monastery,  457;  a  time 
for  reflection,  495. 


Sin,  foulness  of,  415;  pleasures  of, 
unsatisfying,  416;  great,  in  small 
matters,  468;  small,  guiltier  from 
slight  temptations,  ib. ;  danger 
of  one,  indulged  in,  498. 

Sins,  some  to  be  checked  with  author- 
ity, 495- 

Sinners,  made  better  by  prayers  of- 
fered for  them,  426;  open  and 
secret,  465. 

Slave,  a  Christian  life  will  be  admired 
in  a,  533. 

Slaves,  duties  of,  465;  the  bishop's 
concern  in,  465;  obedience  of, 
puts  men  to  shame,  466;  to  be 
imitated  by  Christians  towards 
God,  ib.;  brethren  of  Christ, 
552;  to  be  treated  as  such,  ib. 

Slavery,  to  passions,  miserable,  473; 
moral     disadvantages    of,    533; 
state  of,  lawful  and  capable  of 
good  use,  546. 

Sobriety,  what  it  consists  in,  536. 

Soldiers,  spiritual,  must  endure  hard- 
ness, 488. 

Solomon,  experience  of,  in  knowledge 
of  the  world,  462. 

Son,  heretical  comments  on  the  term, 
applied  to  Timothy,  409  (note). 

Sons,  not  all  true,  521. 

Sorrows,  not  to  cause  impatience  or 
despair,  477 ;  no  exemption  from, 
in  this  life,  ib. ;  each  thinks  his 
own  most  severe,  478;  produc- 
tive of  advantage,  ib. 

Soul,  called  the  spirit  to  distinguish 
it  from  the  body,  421 ;  a  healthy 
state  of,  called  a  sound  mind, 
477;   neglected  when  sick,  540. 

Spirit,  the,  mark  of  the  Church,  425. 

Stephen,  St.,  prayer  of,  427. 

Strangers,  kindness  to  be  shown  to, 

455- 
Strife,  inconsistent  in  a  Christian,  497. 

Submission,  in  suffering,  553. 

Suffering,  needful   to   the   righteous, 

507;  inequality  of,  no  cause  for 

offense,  ib. 
Superstitions,  condemned,  440. 
Sympathy,  with  those  in  misery,  478; 

lightens  grief,  ib. ;  want  of,  brings 

its  own  reward,  504. 
Swine,  flesh  of,  not  unclean,  445. 

Teachers,  engaged  more  than  the 
taught  in  the  contest,  424;  what 
is  required  of,  ib. ;  not  to  disdain 
instruction,  ib.  ;  as  luminaries,  as 
leaven,  as  angels  among  men, 
440;  must  use  diligent  study, 
450;  need  both  gentleness  and 
authority,  467;  responsibilities 
and  claims  of,  481;  must  think 
their  disciples  everything,  ib.; 
we  must  not  judge  our,  but  our- 
selves, 483;  succession  of,  4S8; 
must  not  be  impatient,  497 ;  two 
things  that  disquiet,  506. 

Teaching,  when  to  be  used,  449; 
called  prophecy,  ib.;  made  use- 
less by  impatience,  497. 

Thanksgiving,  to  be  made  for  others' 
good,  427;  binds  men  to  love 
one  another,  ib. 


59© 


HOMILIES  ON  TIMOTHY,  TITUS,  AND  PHILEMON. 


Theater,  the  heavenly,  526. 

Timothy,  submitted  to  be  circumcised, 
407 ;  affection  of  St.  Paul  for,  ib. ; 
his  youth  no  hindrance  to  his 
promotion,  ib.;  alleged  miracles 
by  the  bones  of,  ib.  (note) ;  the 
time  when  placed  at  Ephesus, 
409;  manner  of  his  appointment, 
423;  his  strictness,  abstinence, 
439;  commanded  to  read,  449; 
whole  church  and  people  of  Asia 
committed  to,  461 ;  fastings  of, 
464;  why  not  cured,  465;  mira- 
cles of,  ib.;  encouraged  in  his 
duties,  475 ;  intensity  of  St.  Paul's 
love  for,  476;  faith  of,  hereditary, 
ib.;  gift  given  to,  477;  advice 
to,  through  him  to  all  teachers, 
488;  consoled,  511;  second  Epis- 
tle to,  a  sort  of  Testament,  full  of 
consolation,  ib.;  why  St.  Paul 
begs  him  to  come  to  him,  513. 

Titans,  470. 

Titanes,  a  warlike  dance  called,  470 
(note). 

Titus,  an  approved  companion  of  St. 
Paul,  519;  his  character,  ib.; 
his  jurisdiction,  ib.;  mentioned 
in  the  Acts,  ib.  (note) ;  perhaps  a 
Corinthian,  ib.;  required  not 
many  words,  ib.;  Epistle  to, 
written  before  that  to  Timothy, 
ib. ;  character  of  Epistle  to,  520; 
why  left  in  Crete,  524;  St.  Paul 
at  liberty  when  he  wrote  to,  519. 

Tongue,  the,  to  be  kept  pure,  427. 

Transgression,  real  cause  of  unclean- 
ness  in  meats,  &c.,  531. 

Trials,  prolonged  to  the  impatient,  543. 

Tribulation,  should  not  haste  to  be 
rid  of,  543. 

Trophimus,  why  not  healed  by  St. 
Paul,  515;  when  left  at  Miletus, 
ib. 

Truth,  disregarded  by  those  ambitious 
of  power,  413;  supports  the 
Church,  442;  contrasted  with 
Type,  520;  acknowledgment  of, 
from  faith,  not  from  reasoning, 
ib. 

Unclean,  nothing  by  nature,  446,  530, 
sin  alone,  530;  an  evil  will,  ib. 

Uncleanness,  of  meats,  done  away 
with  by  sign  of  the  cross,  445; 
not  in  themselves,  but  in  receivers, 


ib.;   legal,  typical   of  sin,  531 ; 

what  is,  530. 
Uncleanliness,  no  honor  in,  523. 
Unguents,  kind  of,  to  be  sought  for 

by  Christians,  415. 
Unmarried,  duties  of  the,  4^4. 
Unrighteous,  sufferings  of  the,  495. 
Unthank fulness,  501. 

Vainglory,  difficulty  of  overcoming, 
526. 

Valentinus,  479. 

Vanity,  of  earthly  things,  462. 

Value,  of  things  imaginary,  470. 

Vessels,  earthen,  twofold  meaning  of, 
496. 

Vices,  unnatural,  of  the  heathen,  539. 

Violence,  hinders  influence,  525. 

Virgins,  to  be  simple  in  their  dress, 
433;  hoods  and  veils  worn  by, 
434;  reproved  for  over-careful- 
ness about  dress,  ib. ;  have  Christ 
for  their  Bridegroom,  ib. ;  have 
entered  upon  a  great  contest,  ib.  ; 
should  be  an  example  to  others, 
435;  the  foolish,  failed  in  alms- 
giving, 498  (note). 

Virginity,  not  enjoined,  446;  a  higher 
state,  ib. 

Virtue,  the  best  inheritance  we  can 
leave  to  our  children,  437;  alone 
can  depart  with  men  hence,  443 ; 
most  men  practice,  from  con- 
straint, 461 ;  prevails  over  every- 
thing, 535;  bad  men  overawed 
by,  ib. 

Virtues,  real  goods,  448. 

War,  three  kinds  of  war,  429;  with 
one's  self  the  worst,  ib. 

Warfare,  good  and  bad,  424. 

Washing,  bodily,  clears  not  from  guilt, 
499;  °f  the  body,  no  great  mat- 
ter, ib. 

Water,  worldly  things  as,  512. 

Way,  the  narrow,  542. 

Wealth,  no  power  of  itself,  431 ;  folly 
of  hoarding,  432;  not  a  posses- 
sion, a  loan  for  use,  443;  how- 
ever gained,  is  God's,  not  ours, 
448;  not  a  good,  ib.;  trusting 
in,  produces  pride,  472. 

Wicked,  if  rich,  because  they  are  dis- 
esteemed  of  God,  412;  various 
reasons  why  suffered  to  remain, 
496. 


Wickedness,  has  its  torments  here  as 
well  as  hereafter,  445,  446;  to 
prevail  in  the  last  days,  500;  no 
one  to  be  offended  because  uf, 
506;  shall  increase  as  the  end 
draws  near,  ib. 

Widowhood,  better  not  professed  than 
to  be  forsaken,  459;  Christian, 
503;  how  to  bear,  ib. 

Widows,  what  makes,  450;  to  receive 
honor  from  the  priest,  ib. ;  do- 
mestic duty  of,  ib. ;  God  the  stay 
of,  if  desolate,  ib.;  must  re- 
nounce pleasure,  451 ;  intemper- 
ate threatened,  453;  "list  of 
widows  "  relieved  by  the  Church, 
ib.  (note) ;  strictness  required  of, 
454;  directions  to  younger,  459 : 
marriage  of,  recommended  to 
prevent  evil,  460;  with  relations, 
ib. 

Widows,  church,  age  of,  454;  duties 
of,  ib. 

Wine,  women  given  to,  441 ;  danger 
of,  442;  those  who  served  in  the 
temple  never  tasted,  ib. 

Woman,  taught  once  and  ruined  all, 

436. 

Women,  to  be  modest  in  dress,  433; 
to  be  silent  and  modest,  435 ;  not 
to  speak  in  Church,  ib.;  in  St. 
Chryostom's  time  open  to  re- 
proof, ib. ;  must  not  teach,  but 
occupy  station  of  learners,  ib.  ; 
why  made  subject  to  men,  ib.; 
salvation  to,  through  child-bear- 
ing, 436;  yet  saved  without  chil- 
dren, ib.;  what  they  may  do,  516; 
many  suffered  martyrdom,  ib.; 
not  inferior  in  spiritual  matters, 
ib.;  forbidden  to  teach,  532; 
those  who  led  to  war,  condemned, 
539;  duties  of,  454. 

Word,  of  God,  not  bound,  489;  how 
rightly  divided,  493. 

Works,  good,  are  to  shine  and  be 
manifest,  440;  to  be  concealed, 
458. 

World  despised,  heaven  gained,  516. 

Worth,  moral,  alone  real,  470. 

Youth,  requires  much  restraint,  436; 
exposed  to  lust,  533. 

Zeal,  in  good  works,  537. 
Zenas,  the  lawyer,  541. 


HOMILIES 


ON 


THE  EPISTLES  TO  TIMOTHY,  TITUS,  AND  PHILEMON. 


INDEX  OF  TEXTS. 


Gen.  i.  II 

i.  26  . 

i.  27  . 

i.  31  . 

•  •  • 

111.  5     . 
iii.  16  . 
iv.  9     . 
vi.  3  (lxx) 
xii.  6    . 
xviii.  21 
xix.  14 
xix.  24 
xxi.  12 
xxii.  7,  8 
xxiv.  22 
xxxi.  45 
xxxv.  18 
xxxix.  6 
xl.  7     . 
xl.  14,  15 
xlv.  5  . 

xlix.  9  (LXX) 
Ex.  ii.  14 
xv.  16 
xxiii.  15  . 
xxxii.  I    . 
Num.  xi.  29  . 
Deut.  iv.  26 
xix.  15 
xxv.  4 
xxxii.  15 

1  Sam.  ii.  27 

iii.  18 
iv.  30 
vi.  9 
viii.  7 
ix.  20 
x.  22 

2  Sam.  i.  25,  26 

i.  25   (LXX 

xv.  26 
1  Kings  xviii.  21  ( 
Job  i.  2    .     . 

i.  10 .     . 

vii.  1  (i.xx 

xxix.  15 

xl.  3  (LXX) 

xl.  8  .     . 

xlii.  8     . 
Ps.  vi.  2   .     . 


PACE 

463 
466 

531 

445 
5°4 

435 
501 

452 

447 
482 

447 
485 

507 

458 

447 
464 

55' 
422 

535 
543 
552 
505 
43* 

477 
479 

5'5 
419 

464 

461 

460 

446 

481 

533 
421 

529 
481 

5°9 
423 
5°3 
503 

v  533 

LXX)  509 

45  2 
5°4 
506 

5°4 
5°7 
5°7 
5°7 
539 


Ps.  vi.  6  .    .  . 

vi.  8  .     .  . 

vii.  11  (lxx) 

viii.  4      .  . 

xvi.  2      .  . 

xix.  4      .  . 

xxii.  13  .  . 

xxiii.  4    .  . 

xxxvi.  6  .  . 

xxxvii.  1 .  . 

xxxviii.  5 

xxxix.  9  (lxx) 

xl.  2  .     .  . 

xliv.  22  .  . 

xlviii.   10 

xlix.  15   .  . 

xlix.  16  .  . 

xlix.  17  .  . 

Ii.  10.     .  . 

lviii.  10  .  . 

lxii.   3     .  . 

Ixiv.  5     .  . 

Ixviii.  5  .  . 

Ixviii.  6  .  . 

lxix.  1     .  . 

lxxiv.  17.  . 

xci.  0.  . 

cii.  6.     .  . 

cii.  9 .     .  . 

civ.  26    .  . 

cvi.  37    .  . 

cix.  4      .  . 

ex.  i.  .     .  . 

cxviii.  15  . 

cxix.  62  .  . 

cxix.  120  (lxx 

cxix.  125 

cxix.  164  . 

cxx.  6,  7  (LXX 

exxvii.  1 .  . 

cxliv.  4  .  . 

cxlviii.  1 
Prov.  vi.  34,  35 
xx.  6  (lxx) 
xxvi.  1 1 
Eccles.  ii.  4,  5 
vii.  2 
xii.  8 
Isa.  i.  16.     . 
i.  15  .     . 


) 


PAGB 

•  456 

.   482 
.   486 

•  456 
466,  485 

.   442 

•  505 

•  457 
.   486 

.   506 

•  415 
.   5O5 

.   512 

•  457 
.  486 

456»  457 

•  456 
414, 472 

499,  53° 
557 

513 

408 

459 
456 

512 
474 
457 
444 
45° 
463 

539 
429 

485 

457 

457 

5'3 
521 

456 
429 

484 
456»  478 
457 
534 

452 
426 

462 

456 
462 

499,  530 

•  479 


PAGE 

Isa.  i.  17.     .     .     .458,479 
iii.  16     ...     .  434 
iii.  24  (lxx;   .     .  434 
xiv.  10  ...     .  440 
xxvi.  9  .     .     .     .  456 
Hi.  11     ...     .  530 
liii.  9      ....  442 
liv.  13    ....  483 
lviii.  7  (lxx)  .     .  453 
Jer.  ii.  1 1      ....  529 
iv.  14     ...     .  499 
xxxi.  34      .     .     .  483 
Ezek.  xviii.  24  .     .     .  485 
xxxiii.  11      .     .  485 
Dan.  ii.  30    .     .     .     .  533 
iii.  17,  18      .     .  543 
iii.  29, 30      .     .  553 
iv.  27  .     .     .     .  542 
v.  16    ...     .  553 
IIos.  iv.  8     .     .     .     .  45 5 
vi.  6     .     .     .     .  498 
xiii.  2  (lxx)      .  473 
Amos  ii.  11  (i*XX)      .  526 
iv.  13      ...  463 
v. 8  (lxx)  .     .  463 
Jonah  iii.  4  .     .     .     .  462 
Micah  vi.  2  .     .     .     .  464 
Zech.  xiii.  7      .     .     .  408 
Mai.  i.  2,  3  .     .     .     .  501 
Ecclus.  ii.  2      ...  477 
u.  27    .     .     .  495 
iii.  10,  11,  12  483 
vii.  6    .     .     .  526 
vii.  31  .     .     .  481 
xi.  2      ...  422 
xi.  4      ...  414 
xiv.  9    .     .     .  468 
xxi.  2    .     .     .  531 
xxiii.  17     .     .  437 
xxv.  1   .     .     .  532 
xxvi  27     .     .  543 
Song  of  the  Three  Chil- 
dren, v.  6  (lxx)  553 
Bel  and  Dragon,  v.  38  553 


Matt.  iii.  14  . 

v.  7  .  .  . 
v.  8  .  .  . 
v.  16  .  .  . 
v.  22,  23,  24 
v.  41    .     .     . 


4»3 

556 

499 
440 

521 

527 


Matt.  v.  44 

v.  45 
vi.  3 
vi.  5 
vi.  5,  6 
vi.  13 

vi.  15 
vi.  23 
vi.  24 

vi-  33 
vii.  2 

vii.  7 

vii.  9 

vii.  11 

vii.  14 

vii.  23 

vii.  21,  22, 

vii.  22,  23 

vii.  23 

x.  17   . 

x.  27   . 

x.  33   • 
x.  38   . 
x.  40   . 
x.  41    . 
xi.  12  . 
xii.  36 
xiii.  52 
xviii.  6 
xviii.  7 
xviii.  ic 
xviii.  18 
xviii.  19 
xix.  12,  21 
xxi.  22 
xxii.  13 
xxii.  32 
xxii.  40 
xxiii.  2,  3 
xxiii.  8 
xxiv.  12 
xxiv.  38 

XXV.  12 

xxv.  26 

xxv.  34,  35 

xxv. 
Mark  xi.  25  . 

xv.  41 
Luke  ii.  10  . 

vi.  36  . 


23 


PAGE 
.   419 

•  55° 
432,  458 

508.  527 

•  432 

•  549 
.  427 

•  524 
■  443 

•  443 
.  428 

.  410 

.  409 

•  433 
.  469 

'  4H 
49» 

482 

.  485 

.  510 

.  521 

•  492 

•  438 

455. 48i 
.  481 

•  sn 
.  482 

.  449 
.  522 


521, 


461 

517 
412 

542 

•  433 
432, 485 

•  45> 
.  502 

.  481 

•  413 
.  412 

.  462 
.  498 

-  485 

)5,4»5 
433 
54i 
414 

498 


455. 


592        TIMOTHY,  TITUS,  AND  PHILEMON:   INDEX  OF  TEXTS. 


PAGE 

PAGE 

PAGE 

PAGE 

Luke  viii.  8  .     . 

•     .     495 

Acts  xxii.  21 

.    .   408 

1  Cor.  ix.  9  .     .    . 

•       •       417 

1  Thess.  iii.  8 

.      .      :      481 

x.  7     .     . 

.     .     460 

xxvii.  24  . 

.    .   408 

ix.  16     .     . 

408,  521 

v.  19 

.     .     .     477 

xiv.  33     . 

•     •     536 

Rom.  i.  1 

.    .    520 

ix.  20,  21 

.       .       528 

2  Thess.  ii.  15 

.      .      .      484 

xv.  33  • 

.     .     .     438 

i.  32   •     • 

.  .  478 

ix.  27     .     , 

,  424,  464 

1  Tim.  i.  3   .     . 

.      .      408 

xvi.  9  .     , 

.     .     •    443 

ii.  5    .    . 

.   .   486 

X.  12       .     , 

•    .    537 

i.  4   .     . 

.*    •      540 

xvi.  ii     . 

411,  note, 

ii.  16  . 

.     489,  note 

xi.  7  .     .     . 

.    505 

i.  11 . 

.     489,  note 

423 

ii.  19,  20 

.     .     508 

xi.  9  .     . 

•    •    435 

i.  13. 

.     .     .     476 

xvi.  19     . 

•     •     447 

ii.  20  . 

.     .     .     505 

xi.  26     .     , 

■     •    425 

ii.  2  .     . 

•     •     532 

xvi.  26 

.     .     .     485 

ii.  29  .     . 

.     .     527 

xi.  27     . 

.    .    490 

ii.  9,  10 

.     .     .     447 

xv ii.  7,  8 

•    •    •    533 

iii.  8  .     . 

.     .     420 

xi.  28     . 

■    •    5°7 

ii.  12 

•     •     •     532 

xvii.  10 

.    .467.552 

iii.  20 

.     .     .     413 

xi.  30     . 

.    .    425 

ii.  15 

•454 

xviii.  12 

•    •    •    553 

iii.  23      . 

.     .     420 

xiii.  12  .     . 

.    520 

iii.  2, 4  . 

•     •     407 

xviii.  13 

.    .    .    549 

iv.  2   . 

.     .     .     417 

xiv.  35    . 

.    435 

iii.  5 

-    •    •     535 

xxii.  70 

.    .    .    471 

v.  5     . 

.     .     .     447 

xv.  1       .     , 

489,  note 

iii.  7 

,    .    .    461 

xxiii.  40 

•    •    •    537 

v.  14  . 

.     .     .     436 

xv.  10    . 

.     .    417 

iii.  14 

.    .    .    475 

John  i.  16    . 

.    .    .    483 

v.  20  .     . 

.     .     .     420 

xv.  23     . 

•     •    463 

•  •  • 

in.  15    , 

•    •     5U 

i.  18    . 

.    .    .    431 

vi.  2   . 

.     .     .     556 

xv.  25     .     . 

.    414 

iv.  1,  2 

.    .    .     500 

i.  27    . 

.    .    .    483 

vi.  4   . 

.     .     .     492 

xvi.  2 

■     •    478 

iv.  11 

.    .    .    467 

iii.  20 

.    .    .    412 

vi.  5,  6 

.     .     .     492 

xvi.  10,  11 

.     .    407 

iv.  12    407.439.497 

iv.  24  . 

.    .  43i»529 

vi.  7    . 

.     .     .     438 

2  Cor.  i.  3    .     . 

.     .    485 

iv.  13,11 

6   .     .     497 

v.  39   • 

.    .    .    410 

vi.  16. 

-     •     556 

ii.  15,  16 

•     •    415 

iv.  14 

.     .    .     423 

v.  41    . 

.    .    .    527 

vi.  19. 

.     .     .     424 

iv.  5  .     . 

■     •    467 

iv.  15,  1 

6  .    .     461 

v.  43   • 

.    .    .    431 

vii.  9  . 

.     494,  note 

iv.  7  .     . 

■     •    515 

v.  2  . 

.    .    .     407 

v.  44   • 

.    .    .    417 

vii.  13 

•    •    •    533 

iv.  10     . 

,     .    492 

v.  6  . 

•     •    •     503 

vi.  45  . 

.    .    .    483 

vii.  23 

,     494,  note 

vi.  8  .     . 

•     •    439 

v.  8  . 

.     .    .     429 

viii.  28     , 

,    408,  note 

viii.  9 

.     .     .     452 

vi.  20     . 

•     •    443 

v.  10 

•  436,  5°3 

viii.  34 

.     .    .    467 

viii.  18 

.     .     .     423 

viii.  9     . 

.     •     540 

v.  15 

.    .    .     450 

ix.  22  . 

.     .     .    417 

viii.  24 

•     •     •    475 

viii.  18  . 

•     •     5^3 

v.  23      . 

,     407,  note, 

X.  II     . 

.     .  438, 460 

viii.  29 

.     .     .     520 

ix.  7  .     . 

• 455»  542 

409,    523 

xi.  48  . 

.     .     .    417 

ix.  13 

.     .     501 

xi.  2  .     . 

•    •     459 

vi.  1 

.     .     .     546 

xii.  19 

.     .     .    417 

X.  2     . 

.     .     .    417 

xii.  7 

.     .     515 

vi.  8,9 

■     •     •     536 

*  xii.  25 

•     •     •     515 

x.  4     . 

.     .     .    412 

xii.  11     . 

.     .    465 

vi.  12 

.     .     .     488 

xii.  42,  4^ 

\    .     •    417 

x.  5     . 

.     .     .     520 

xiii.  10  . 

■     •    425 

vi.  13    , 

,     .     .     510 

xiii.  14 

•     .     •    454 

X.  12    . 

.     .     .     517 

Gal.  i.  6   .     .     . 

.     .    489 

2  Tim.  i.  4  .    , 

.    .476,  511 

xiii.  27 

.     .     .    425 

x.  17  . 

.     .     .    488 

•  •  • 

111.  1      .     . 

-    .    5f9 

i.  18 

.    .     .     515 

xiv.  10 

,     408,  note 

xi.  25 

.     .     .    418 

iii.  28    .     .     . 

-    •    548 

ii.  11 

,     .     .     517 

xiv.  12 

.     .     .     517 

xii.  15,  1  < 

S  .    .   478 

iv.  3      .     . 

■    •    537 

ii.  16 

.    .    .     506 

xiv.  23 

.     .     .     512 

xiii.  3 

.     .     .    413 

iv.  19    .     . 

.    .    476 

ii.  25 

.    .    .     540 

xv.  13,  14 

.     .     .     466 

xiii.  5 

.     .     .    426 

vi.  4      .     . 

.    .    482 

•  •  • 

111.  11    , 

•     •     5»4 

xv.  15 

.     .     .     509 

xiii.  10 

.     .     .     502 

vi.  13   '.     .     . 

•    413 

iii.  15    , 

.     .     •     439 

xv.  16 

.     .     .     520 

xiv.  1  . 

.     .     .     529 

vi.  14    .     . 

■     •    479 

iv.  6 

.     .     .     509 

xv.  22 

.     .     .     540 

xiv.  8. 

•    •    •    533 

vi.  17    .     . 

•    .    547 

iv.  6,  16 

•     •     475 

xvi.  33 

.     .     .     506 

xiv.  10 

■    .482,537 

Eph.  ii.  9     .     . 

.    .    463 

iv.  9.  13 

•     •     475 

xvii.  3 

.     .     .     431 

xv.  4  . 

.    .    .    45° 

iii.  10  .     . 

.    .    442 

iv.  9 

•     •     476 

xvii.  24 

>     .4'4»4i9 

xv.  19 

.    .    511 

iii.  20  .     . 

.    .    480 

iv.  10,  1 

1    •    •     555 

xviii.  23 

.     .     .    467 

xvi.  25     . 

489,  note 

v.  27    .     . 

.    .    496 

iv.  11 

.    .    .    407 

xviii.  37 

.     .     .    471 

I  Cor.  ii.  9  .     . 

.  414,  462 

vi.  4     .     .     . 

.    436 

iv.  20 

.    .    .    556 

Acts  i.  11     . 

.     .     .    442 

ii.  14 

.     494,  note 

vi.  9     .     . . 

-  465.  549 

Tit.  i.  5    .     . 

.     .     .     439 

iii.  12  . 

.     .     .     515 

iii.  6  . 

•     •     •    439 

vi.  12  .     . 

.    .    488 

i.  13  •     • 

•     .497. 5'9 

iv.  12  . 

.     .     .     421 

iii.  12 

.    .    .    467 

Phil.  i.  18     .     .     . 

,415,419 

i.  16  .     . 

■     •  429.  453 

iv.  32,  35 

.     .     542 

iii.  21 

.     .     .     520 

i.  21     .     .     . 

■    457 

ii.  15      . 

■     • 409.  497 

vi.  5,  6,  7 

•    •    455 

iv.  3  . 

.     .     .     482 

ii.  7      .     . 

-    •    467 

iii.  10    .     , 

,     .  468,  497 

vi.  60  . 

.     .    .    427 

iv.  4  . 

■     •    •     553 

ii.  13    .     .     , 

.    .    417 

iii.  12    . 

.     .     .     520 

vii.  27  . 

.    .    •    438 

iv.  7  . 

.    .     .    467 

ii.  15    .     .     , 

,    .    440 

iii.  13     . 

.     .     .     519 

viii.  23 

.    .    .    432 

iv.  12 

.     .    440 

ii.  22    .     .     , 

.    .    407 

Philem.  12   . 

.     .     .     521 

ix.  15  . 

.    .    .    416 

iv.  12,  I, 

3    •    •    427 

ii.  27    .     . 

.     .    515 

Heb.  i.  2 

.     .     .     421 

xiii.  2  .  4 

08,  423,  431 

iv.  17 

.     .     .    407 

ii.  29,  30  . 

■    •     523 

iii.  1    .     . 

408,  note 

xiv.  14,  15 

;  •  •  515 

iv.  21 

.     .    .    425 

ii.  30    .     . 

.    .    485 

xi.  13  . 

.     .     .     491 

xiv.  15 

.  .  .  417 

v.  4   . 

.     .     .    425 

iii.  6     .     . 

.    .    420 

xii.  2,  3 

•     •     •     471 

xvi.  1.  3 

...476 

v.  5    . 

.     .     .    424 

iii.  12  .     . 

.     •    520 

xii.  4  .     . 

.     .     515 

xvi.  2  . 

.  .  .  407 

V.   II 

.    .429,521 

iii.  13  .     .     , 

•     •     552 

xii.  14 

.     .     .     516 

xvi.  3  . 

.  .  .  407 

vi.  10 

.     .    .    427 

iii.  20  .     .     . 

•    440 

xii.  16 

.     .     .     501 

xvi.  17 

.   .  .  529 

vi.  9,  10 

•     •     539 

iv.  3     .     . 

■    •    407 

xiii.  4 .     , 

■     .438,536 

xvii.  23,  2 

8   .     .     528 

vi.  20 

.    .421,423 

iv.  4     .     . 

.    •    415 

xiii.  17 

.     .481,522 

xvii.  28 

,     410,  note 

vii.  5 

.    .     .     536 

iv.  14,  16  . 

.    •    485 

xiii.  23     , 

,     .     .     407 

xviii.  24 

.     .     .     541 

vii.  7 

•     •     439 

iv.  17  .     . 

.     .     542 

Jas.  ii.  13 

.     .     .     556 

xx.  26  . 

.     .     .     491 

vii.  21 

.     .     .     546 

Col.  iii.  3      .     . 

.     .    491 

ii.  26 

.     .     .     516 

xx.  29  . 

.     .     .     511 

vii.  28, 1 

P  •     •     5°3 

iii.  5      .     . 

.    •    438 

iii.  11     . 

.     .     .     427 

xx.  31  . 

'    •    •    5°7 

vii.  29 

.    .    .    438 

iv.  16    .     . 

•    •    55° 

iv.  3 

.     .     .     411 

xx.  32  . 

.     .     .    481 

vii.  33 

.    .     .    438 

iv.  17    .     . 

.     .     547 

1  Pet.  ii.  21  . 

.     .     .     471 

xx.  34  . 

.     •     •     443 

v»i-  34.  3 

15  •     •    459 

1  Thess.  ii.  4     .     . 

409,  note 

ii.  22 . 

.     .     .     442 

xx.  34,  35 

•     •     5!4 

vii.  35 

■     •     •     454 

ii.  17  . 

.     .     511 

1  John  ii.  9  . 

.     .     .     429 

xxii.  14,  1 

5    •     •    4761 

viii.  6 

.     .  430, 485 

ii.  19  . 

.     .     481 

iv.  8      , 

.     .     .     498 

UNIVERSITY 


Of 


«4J* 


i\r 


