I 


Historic,  archived  document 

Do  not  assume  content  reflects  current 
scientific  knowledge,  policies,  or  practices 


^  Y. 
^  I  V  E  D 


RADIO  RECIPES  RE\m 


U.S.  DEPARTMENT  OF 


ECONCIVIICS  ■ 
AGRICULTURE 


1 


■ 

UNITED  STATES  DEPARTMENT  0/ AGRICULTURE 

BUREAU  OF  HOME  ECONOMICS 

♦ 

AUNT  SAMMY^S 

* 

RADIO  RECIPES 

♦ 

REVISED 

♦ 

♦ 

RUTH  VAN  DEMAN,  Formerly  Associate  Specialist 

in  Charge  of  Information 

and 

FANNY  WALKER  YEATMAN,  Junior  Specialist  in  Foods 

♦ 

BUREAU  OF  HOME  ECONOMICS 

♦ 

Issued  May,  1931 

i 

♦ 

♦ 

^^^^^^ 

* 

UNITED  STATES 

GOVERNMENT  PRINTING  OFFICE 

WASHINGTON  •  1931 

Contents 


♦ 

Page 

Foreword   v 

Menus   1 

Oven  temperatures   8 

Equivalent  measures   8 

Soups  and  chowders   9 

Meats   14 

Poultry   24 

Fish  and  shellfish   30 

Egg  and  cheese  dishes   37 

Vegetables   40 

Salads  and  salad  dressings   64 

Sandwiches   71 

Savxes   74 

Biscuits,  muffins,  and  breads   78 

Fruits  and  puddings   84 

Pies  and  other  parries   103 

Ca}{es,  cookies,  and  fro^ings   110 

Ice  creams  and  frozen  desserts   122 

Candies  and  confections   126 

Jams,  preserves,  and  relishes   132 

Index  to  recipes   139 


Foreword 


*y4.UNT  Sammy's  radio  recipes,  revised,  brings 
together  400  of  the  moit  popular  recipes  and  90  of 
the  menus  included  in  the  housekeepers'  chats. 
Immediately  with  the  itart  of  this  radio  service  for 
ivomen  in  1926  came  the  demand  for  copies  of  the 
recipes  originated  hy  the  Bureau  of  Home  Econom- 
ics hut  not  included  in  the  regular  printed  series. 
d^Aunt  Sammy''s  Radio  Recipes  even  now  in  this 
fourth  enlarged  edition  ma\es  no  claim  to  being  a 
complete  coohJjoo\.  It  merely  supplements  the  in- 
formation on  food  preparation  given  in  the  leaflets 
and  bulletins,  which  are  also  free  on  reque^  to  the 
department. 


Aunt  Sammy  s  Radio  Recipes 
Revised 


Brea}{fait  Menus 


Grapefruit 
Creamed  eggs  and  dried  beef 
Corn  bread 
Beverage 

Stewed  prunes  and  apricots 
Cooked  cereal  and  top  milk 
Toa^t 
Beverage 

Canned  peaches 
Crisp  bacon 
Spoon  bread 
Beverage 

Orange  juice 
Sausage  and  fried  pineapple 
MufEns 
Beverage 

Sliced  bananas  with  ready'to-serve  cereal 
and  cream  or  top  milk 
Graham  toa^ 
Amber  marmalade 
Beverage 


Apple  sauce 
Scrambled  eggs  and  bacon,  or  kippered 
herring 
Hot  biscuit 
Beverage 

Stewed  rhubarb 
Broiled  salt  mackerel 
Corn-meal  muffins 
Beverage 

Strawberries  and  cream 

Omelet 
Toa^ed  English  muffins 
Beverage 

Melon 

Cereal  and  top  milk  or  creaoi 
Bacon 
Toa^ed  rolls 
Beverage 

Baked  apples 
Coddled  eggs 
Oatmeal  muffins 
Beverage 


Lunch  or  Supper  tAenus 


Corn  chowder 
Dried-beef  loaded  sandwiches 
Apple  float 
Cake 

Hot  Spanish  sandwich 
Lettuce  salad  with  French  dressing 
Caramel  cake 

Onion  soup  au  gratin 
Vegetable  salad 
Canned  or  ^ewed  dried  fruit 
Ginger  cookies 

Chicken  salad 
Lattice  potatoes 
Hot  Sally  Lunn 
Iced  tea  or  coffee 
Strawberry  ice-box  cake 
Salted  nuts  or  candy 

Baked  eggs  and  rice  in  tomato  sauce 
Celery  and  olives 
Toa^d  Swedish  bread 
Cocoa 


Cold  sliced  beef  loaf  with  cress 
Vegetables  au  gratin 
Hot  biscuit  and  honey 

Cheese  toa^t  and  bacon 
Cabbage  and  apple  salad 
Coffee  cake 
Coffee 

Stuffed-tomato  salad 
Rolls 

Fruit  punch  or  lemonade 
Chocolate  cake 

Scalloped  salmon 
Hashed  brown  potatoes 
Celery 
Honolulu  salad 
Cheese  straws 

Stuffed  mushrooms 
Peas 
Nut  biscuit 
Spring  salad 
Strawberries  and  cream 
Angel  food  cake 

{  1  I 


2  AUNT  SAMMY'S 

Dinner  Menus  for  January 

.      NEW  year's  dinner 

Baked  ham 
Scalloped  cabbage  and  apples 
Browned  potatoes  or  buttered  hominy 
Currant  jelly 
Celery  and  olives 
Steamed  cranberry  pudding 
Coffee 


OTHER  DINNERS 

Chicken  rizotto  Fish  chowder 

Carrots  in  parsley  butter  Corn  pone  or  some  other  crisp  bread 

Lettuce  or  cabbage  salad  Celery 

Apple  dumplings  Apple  sauce 

Doughnuts  and  cheese 

Swiss  steak 

Baked  potatoes  Pickled  pigs'  feet 

Harvard  beets  Sauerkraut 

Pear  salad  Baked  sweetpotatoes 

Coffee  gelatin  with  whipped  cream  Corn  bread 

Sand  tarts  Stewed  dried  apricots  and  cake 

Broiled  liver 
Bak«d  potatoes 
Buttered  asparagus 
Canned  fruit 
Cinnamon  toast 


Dinner  Menus  for  February 


Scalloped  oysters 
Five-minute  cabbage 
Pickled  beets 
Jellied  fruit 

Lima  beans  in  tomato  sauce  with  crisp  bacon 
Mashed  rutabaga  turnip 
Lettuce  with  tart  dressing 
Fruit 

Chocolate  drop  cookies 

Roa^t  beef 
Yorkshire  pudding 
Scalloped  parsnips 
Turnip  greens 
Pickled  cherries 
Washington  pie 


RoaSt  shoulder  of  pork  with  savory  ^ufl5ng 
Spinach 
Buttered  onions 
Tart  jelly 
Apple  Brown  Betty 

Creamed  dried  beef 
Riced  potatoes 
Braised  lettuce 
Oatmeal  bread 
Apricot  tapioca 

Lamb  stew 
Parsley  potatoes 
Hot  scalloped  apples 
Raisin  cup  cakes 


RADIO     RECIPES  REVISED 


3 


Dinner  Menus  for  March 


Chicken  shortcake 
Buttered  peas  and  carrots 
Celery 
Cranberry  sauce 
Orange  Bavarian  cream 


Pot  roast  of  beef 
Browned  parsnips 
Scalloped  tomatoes 


Pickles 

Old-fashioned  creamy  rice  pudding 


Boston  baked  beans 

Codfish  balls 
Stewed  tomatoes 
Boston  brown  bread 
Grapefruit  salad  with  cheese  wafers 


Omelet  with  Spanish  sauce 
Baked  potatoes 
Cauliflower 
Hot  Graham  biscuits 
Fruit  cup 


Broiled  lamb  chops 
Creamed  potatoes 
Spinach 
Baked  bananas  and  rhubarb 


Creamed  finnan  haddie 
Baked  potatoes 
Stewed  tomatoes  and  celery 
Lettuce  salad 
Pineapple  pie 


Dinner  Menus  for  April 

EASTER  DINNER 

Roa^t  shoulder  of  lamb  with  mint  stuffing 
Carrots 
Asparagus  on  toaS 
Spiced  jelly 
Spring  salad 
Lemon  sherbet  and  sponge  cake 


OTHER  DINNERS 

Cheese  souffle  Fish  timbales 

Spring  onions  on  toast  Rice 

Browned  parsnips  Turnip  greens 

Olives  and  radishes  Pickled  onions 

Rhubarb  Betty  Cottage  pudding  with  pineapple  sauce 

Pork  chops  Curried  fowl  with  carrots 

Savory  cooked  lettuce  Flaky  boiled  rice 

Parsley  potatoes  Buttered  asparagus 

Chili  sauce  Orange  salad 


Jelly  roll 


Apricot  whip 


Fresh  beef  tongue 
Wilted  dandelion  greens 
Fried  potato  cakes 
Banana  pudding 


AUNT  SAMMY'S 


Dinner  Menus  for  May 


Veal  birds 
Peas 

Scalloped  potatoes 
Spiced  conserve 
Chocolate  blanc  mange 

Broiled  fish 
Scalloped  asparagus  and  spaghetti 
Spring  onions  and  radishes 
Rhubarb  pie 

Stuffed  flank  ^eak 
Browned  potatoes 

I  .  String  beans 

Lettuce  salad  with  French  dressing 
Floating  island 


Baked  eggs  and  cheese 
Peas 

Potatoes  in  parsley  butter 
Strawberry  shortcake 

Crisp  bacon 
Spoon  bread 
Harvard  beets 
Cottage  cheese  and  watercress  salad 
Fruit  and  spice  cake 

Liver  and  rice  loaf 
Savory  mixed  greens 
Carrots 
Lemon  tarts 


Dinner  Menus  for  June 


Beef  and  ham  gumbo  in  rice  ring 
String  beans 
Toa^ed  rolls 
Fresh  cherry  pie 

Omelet 
Swiss  chard 
Potatoes  au  gratin 
Rhubarb  conserve 
Raspberries  and  cream 

Roa*  buffed  breast  of  lamb 
Onions 
Asparagus  on  toa^ 
Mint  jelly 
Strawberries  supreme 


Clam  fritters 
Peas 

;■,  ,  Beets 

Sliced  fresh  pineapple 
Cookies 

Shredded  ^ing  beans  and  fresh  pork 
Fried  potatoes 
Spring  onions 
Corn  bread 
Peanut'butter  cup  cakes 

Broiled  beef^eak 
Hashed  brown  potatoes 
Summer  turnips 
^    Lettuce  salad 
Fresh'fruit  ice 


Dinner  Menus  for  July 


Cold  shced  meat 
Potato  salad 
Rolls 
Peaches  and  cream 
Iced  coffee,  tea,  or  chocolate 

Fried  or  broiled  chicken 
New  potatoes 

Peas 
Currant  jelly 
Strawberry  ice  cream 
Vanilla  wafers 

Curried  eggs 
Rice 
Kohlrabi 
Sliced  cucumbers 
Blackberries  and  cream 


Broiled  ground  beef  on  toaSc 
Lima  beans 
Fried  tomatoes 
Spanish  cream 


Stuffed  peppers 
Corn  on  the  cob 
Fried  okra 
Radishes 
blackberry  pudding 

Salmon  cutlets 
String  beans 
Parsley  pptatoes 
Pepper  relish 
Watermelon 


RADIO     RECIPES  REVISED 


5 


Dinner  Menus  for  Auguil 


Fried  ham 
Baked  tomatoes 
Scalloped  potatoes 
Cabbage  salad 
Peaches  and  cream 

Stuffed  eggplant 
Lima  beans 
Corn  on  the  cob 
Cucumber  and  tomato  salad 
Nut  biscuits 
Quick  blueberry  pudding 

Broiled  tomatoes  on  toa^t  with  bacon 
Hashed  brown  potatoes 
Turnips 
Chocolate  custard 


Brown  ^w  of  beef 
Parsley  potatoes 
Panned  summer  squash 
Sliced  tomatoes 
Apple  turnovers 

Scalloped  crab  meat 
Peas 
Baked  cucumbers 
Lettuce  salad 
Honeydew  melon  or  muskmelon 

Smothered  chicken 
Baked  potatoes  (sweet  or  white) 
String  beans 
Watermelon  pickle 
Peach  ice  cream 


Dinner  Menus' for  September 


Beef  loaf 
Savory  string  beans 
Potatoes 
Dill  pickles 
Baked  pears 

Hard-cooked  eggs  on  toaSt  with  Spanish 
sauce 
Corn  on  the  cob 

Peas 
Apple  compote 

Ham  smothered  with  sweetpotatoes 
Buttered  cabbage 
Tomato  and  lettuce  salad 
Baked  apples 


Curried  fish 
Rice 
Summer  squash 
Stewed  plums  and  cookies 

Roa^t  leg  of  lamb 
Browned  potatoes 
Spinach 
Pickled  onions 
Peach  dumplings 

Jellied  veal 
Potato  chips 
Mixed  vegetable  salad 

Graham  muffins 
Cantelope  a  la  mode 


Dinner  Menus  for  O<5toher 


Scalloped  onions  and  peanuts 
Spinach 
Hot  biscuits 

Catsup 
Lemon  pie 

Salmon  and  potato  pufi 
Peas 
Cauliflower 
Grape  and  orange  salad 
Cheese  wafers 

Cold  boiled  ham 

Succotash 
Carrots 

Cold  slaw 
Green-tomato  piz 


Stuffed  pork  chops  with  apples 
Baked  potatoes 
Kale  or  some  other  green  vegetable 
Fresh  fruit 

Cream  of  vegetable  soup 
Oven-toasted  bread 
Grated  cheese  and  lettuce  salad 
Apple  sauce 
Hot  gingerbread 

Roa^  chicken 
Mashed  potatoes 
Brussels  sprouts  or  some  other  green 
vegetable 
Crabapple  jelly 
Peanut-brittle  ice  cream 
Sand  tarts 


AUNT  SAMMY'S 


Dinner  hienus  for  J^ovemher 

Hamburg  steak  on  onion  rings  Casserole  fowl  with  vegetaHes 

Baked  squash  Rice 

Spinach  Broccoli  or  another  green  vegetable 

Green'tomato  pickle  Gooseberry  jelly 

Quince  preserves,  cream  cheese,  and  Orange  sherbet 
crackers 

Pork-chop  suey 

Oxtail  stew  -            Fried  noodles 

Whole  hominy  Flaky  boiled  rice 

Celery  and  olives  Lettuce  salad 

Apricot  tarts  Grapefruit  with  honey 

Spaghetti,  tomatoes,  and  codfish 
Buttered  onions 
Asparagus  salad 
Jellied  grapes 
Cake 


THANKSGIVING  DINNER 

Fruit  cup 
Roa^  turkey  or  roa*  chicken 
Giblet  gravy 
Mashed  potatoes  or  candied  sweetpotatoes 
Brussels  sprouts  or  another  green  vegetable 
Cranberry  sauce 
Celery  and  ohves 
Cider  gelatin  salad 
Pumpkin  pie 
Coffee 


RADIO     RECIPES  REVISED 


7 


Dinner  Menus  for  December 

Roa^  stuffed  spareribs  Boiled  dinner 

Candied  sweetpotatoes  Corn  bread  or  crusty  rolls 

Savory  sauerkraut  Celery 

Baked  Indian  pudding  Broiled  canned  peaches 

Cookies 

Fried  oysters 
Carrots 

Cauliflower  Beef  croquettes 

Cold  slaw  Stewed  tomatoes  and  onions 

Pickles  Peas 

Fruit  cup  Butterscotch  pudding 


CHRISTMAS  DINNER  NO.  1 

Tomato  cocktail 
Roa^  turkey  with  chestnut  stuffing 
Giblet  gravy 
Mashed  potatoes 
Buttered  onions 
Spinach  or  another  green  vegetable 
Cranberry  relish 
Celery  and  oUves 
Grapefruit  salad 
Plum  pudding  with  hard  sauce 
Nuts  and  fruit 
Coffee 


CHRISTMAS  DINNER  NO.  2 

Roa^  chicken  or  roaSt  pork  loin 
Browned  potatoes 
Mashed  rutabaga  turnip 
String  beans 
Fried  pineapple 
Celery 
Mince  pie 
Nuts  and  fruit 
Coffee 


8 


AUNT.  SAMMY'S 


Oven  Temperatures 

°  F. 

Very  hot   450  to  509 

Hot   400  to  450 

Moderately  hot   375  to  400 

Moderate   325  to  375 

Very  moderate  '.  .  .'   300  to  325 

Slow   250  to  300 

Very  slow   225  to  250 

♦ 

Equivalent  TSdeasures 

3  teaspoons   1  tablespoon. 

4  tablespoons   K  cup 

16  tablespoons   1  cup. 

-  K  cup   1  gill. 

2  cups   1  pint. 

4 cups.  .     1  quart. 

■  All  (Quantities  in  this  cool^ooli  are  given 
in  level  measurements. 


RADIO 


RECIPES 


REVISED 


9 


Soups  and  Chowders 


Bean  Soup 


1  pint  dried  navy  or  black  beans. 

Cold  water. 

i4  pound  salt  pork. 

1  onion. 

4  celery  stalks. 


Salt. 
Pepper. 


1  tablespoon  flour. 

2  tablespoons  water. 


Wash  and  soak  the  beans  overnight  in  2  quarts  of  cold  water.  The 
next  morning  add  2  more  quarts  of  water,  the  salt  pork,  onion,  and 
celery,  and  cook  until  the  beans  are  soft.  Remove  the  salt  pork,  cut 
into  small  pieces,  press  the  beans  through  a  sieve,  and  save  all  the 
liquid.  Ck)mbine  all  these  ingredients,  reheat,  and  add  the  flour  and 
water,  which  have  been  well  mixed.  Add  the  salt  and  pepper  and 
cook  for  a  few  minutes.  Serve  with  a  slice  of  lemon  on  the  top  of 
each  portion. 


Drain  the  clams  from  the  liquor  and  chop  or  grind  them  fine .  Strain 
the  liquor  through  cheesecloth  or  a  very  fine  wire  strainer  to  remove 
any  small  pieces  of  shell.  Crisp  the  finely  diced  salt  pork  and  remove 
from  the  fat.  Cook  the  onion  in  the  fat  for  a  few  minutes,  add  the 
flour,  and  ^ir  until  well  blended.  Then  add  the  clam  liquor  and  the 
potatoes.  Cook  this  mixture  in  the  upper  part  of  a  double  boiler  until 
the  potatoes  are  done.  Then  add  the  milk  and  the  chopped  clams 
and  crisped  pork.  Cook  for  a  few  minutes,  add  the  salt  and  the 
tabasco.  Sprinkle  finely  chopped  parsley  over  the  top  and  serve  with 
crackers. 


♦ 


Clam  Chowder 


1  quart  shucked  clams,  or  2  dozen 


1  cup  diced  potatoes. 

1  pint  milk. 

H  teaspoon  salt. 

Few  drops  tabasco  sauce. 

Chopped  parsley. 


clams. 

4  tablespoons  diced  salt  pork. 

1  onion,  chopped. 

2  tablespoons  flour. 


10 


AUNT  SAMMY'S 


Corn  Chowder 


1  quart  diced  raw  potatoes. 

1  pint  boiling  water. 

4  tablespoons  diced  salt  pork. 

1  onion,  chopped. 

2  cups  canned  corn. 


1  pint  milk. 

3^  teaspoon  salt. 
Pepper. 

2  tablespoons  chopped  parsley  or 
celery  leaves. 


Boil  the  diced  potatoes  in  the  pint  of  boiling  watier  for  10  minutes. 
Fry  the  salt  pork  and  onion  for  about  5  minutes,  and  add  these  and 
the  corn  to  the  potatoes.  Cook  until  the  potatoes  are  done.  Add  the 
milk  and  the  salt  and  pepper,  bring  the  mixture  to  the  boiHng  point, 
and  add  the  parsley  or  celery  leaves.  Serve  very  hot  in  soup  dishes 
and  place  two  or  three  crackers  in  the  dish  before  pouring  in  the 
chowder. 

♦ 

Corn  Soup 


2  cups  canned  crushed  corn.  1  tablespoon  flour. 

1  cup  water.  4  tablespoons  butter. 

1  quart  milk.  Salt  to  ta^te. 

1  onion,  cut  in  half.  Pepper. 

Combine  the  corn  and  the  water,  cook  for  10  minutes,  and  ^ir  con- 
^antly  to  keep  from  kicking  to  the  pan.  Press  the  corn  through  a 
strainer.  Heat  the  milk  and  the  onion  in  the  double  boiler  and  thicken 
v^ith  the  flour  and  fat,  which  have  been  well  blended.  Add  the  corn 
pulp,  salt,  and  pepper.  Heat,  remove  the  onion,  and  serve.  Buttered 
pop  corn  makes  an  intere^ing  substitute  for  croutons  to  serve  with 
corn  soup. 


Fish  Chowder 


pounds  fresh  cod,  haddock,  or  1  onion,  chopped, 

any  other  large  fish.  2  tablespoons  flour. 

2  cups  diced  potatoes.  1  pint  milk. 

1  cup  diced  carrots.  Salt. 

1  quart  water.  Pepper. 
]i  pound  salt  pork,  diced. 


Cut  the  fish  into  small  pieces  and  remove  the  bones  and  skin.  Cook 
fish,  potatoes,  and  carrots  in  the  water  for  15  nrinutes.  Fry  the  salt  pork 
until  crisp,  remove  from  the  fat,  cook  the  onion  in  the  fat  for  a  few 
mmutes,  add  the  flour,  ^ir  until  well  blended,  and  add  the  milk.  Add 
this  mixture  to  the  fish  and  vegetables,  add  the  salt  and  pepper,  ^ir 
frequently,  and  simmer  for  10  minutes  longer.  Add  more  seasoning 
if  necessary,  and  serve  over  crackers. 


RADIO     RECIPES  REVISED 


11 


JAulligatawny  Soup 

3  or  4  pounds  veal  knuckle,  2' 2  quarts  cold  water,  '2  teaspoon  peppercorns, 

a  blade  of  mace,  and  2  cloves  arc  used  for  ^tock. 

IH  cups  sliced  onion.  cup  butter. 

1  cup  carrot,  cut  in  small  cubes.  2  cups  canned  tomatoes. 

1  cup  chopped  celery.  H  teaspoon  curry  powder. 

1  green  pepper,  chopped.  1  sprig  parsley. 

1  tart  apple,  sliced.  2  teaspoons  salt,  or  to  taste. 

Wipe  the  knuckle  of  veal,  and  simmer  for  2  hours  with  the  water  and 
spices,  remove  the  scum,  and  ^rain  the  soup  ^ock.  Cook  the  sliced 
onion,  carrots,  celery,  green  pepper,  and  apple  in  the  fat  until  lightly 
browned.  Add  the  meat  ^ock,  the  tomatoes,  and  the  seasonings,  sim' 
mer  for  about  1  hour,  or  until  the  vegetables  are  very  soft.  Strain  out 
the  vegetables,  rub  through  a  sieve,  return  to  the  soup  mixture,  and 
add  1  cup  or  more  of  the  meat  finely  chopped.  Serve  hot. 


Cream  of  }Aushroom  Soup 

]  pound  mushrooms.  2  tablespoons  flour. 

H  cup  melted  butter.  1  cup  cream. 

1  quart  milk.  Salt. 

2  slices  onion.  Pepper. 

Wash  and  skin  the  mushrooms.  Chop  them  fine  and  saute  for  about 
10  minutes  in  2  tablespoons  of  the  butter.  Heat  the  milk  in  a  double 
boiler  with  the  onion.  Blend  the  remaining  butter  with  the  flour,  add 
to  the  milk,  and  cook  until  thickened.  Remove  the  onion,  ^ir  in  the 
mushrooms  and  cream,  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  When  hot 
serve  with  chopped  parsley  over  the  top. 


Onion  Soup  au  Gratin 

6  medium-sized  onions,  chopped  fine.  4  tablespoons  cold  water. 

2  tablespoons  butter.  Salt  to  taste. 

1  pint  boiling  water.  Pepper. 

1  quart  meat,  broth.  ToaSt. 

4  tablespoons  flour.  Cheese,  finely  grated. 

Cook  the  chopped  onions  in  the  fat  until  yellow,  add  to  the  hot 
\\',iter,  and  simmer  for  20  minutes,  or  until  tender.  Add  the  meat 
I'-roth.  Blend  the  flour  and  cold  water,  add  some  of  the  hot  liquid,  mix 
well,  and  ^ir  into  the  soup.  Add  the  salt  and  pepper,  and  cook  for  a 
few  minutes.  Pour  the  soup  into  bowls  or  soup  plates,  place  on  top  of 
each  a  slice  of  toa^ed  bread,  sprinkle  the  cheese  over  the  bread  and 
soup,  and  serve  at  once. 

39363"— 31  2 


12 


AUNT  SAMMY'S 


Split  Pea  Soup 

2  cups  green  split  peas.  1  pint  milk. 

Cold  water.  2  teaspoons  salt. 

1  large  onion,  sKced.  Dash  of  pepper. 
4  tablespoons  butter.  Lemon. 

2  tablespoons  flour.  Parsley,  finely  chopped. 

Pick  over  the  peas,  wash  well,  and  soak  overnight  in  1  quart  of  cold 
water.  In  the  morning,  add  1  more  quart  of  water  and  the  onion,  cover, 
and  simmer  for  about  1  hours,  or  until  the  peas  are  soft.  Press  the  peas 
and  onion  through  a  fine  sieve,  and  save  all  the  liquid.  Blend  the  fat 
and  flour,  add  the  milk,  and  ^ir  until  thickened.  Mix  with  the  pea  pulp 
and  liquid,  season,  and  serve  hot.  If  the  soup  becomes  too  thick,  add 
more  milk  to  give  the  right  consi^ency.  Lay  a  thin  slice  of  lemon  with 
finely  chopped  parsley  over  the  top  in  each  plate  of  soup  ju^  before  it 
goes  onto  the  table. 

♦ 

Potato  Soup 

2  cups  diced  raw  potato. 
1  quart  boiling  water. 
1  pint  milk. 
1  onion. 

''  '  2  tablespoons  finely  chopped 

S  •  ,  parsley. 

Cook  the  potato  in  the  boiling  water  until  soft,  drain  off  and  keep  1 
pint  of  the  potato  water,  and  rice  the  potato.  Heat  the  milk  in  a  double 
boiler  with  the  onion.  Cook  the  parsley  in  the  fat,  add  the  flour,  ^ir 
until  well  blended,  combine  with  the  milk  and  potato,  ^ir  until 
smooth,  cook  for  2  or  3  minutes,  and  add  the  salt  and  pepper.  Remove 
the  onion  before  serving. 

♦ 


4  tablespoons  butter. 
1  tablespoon  flour. 
1  teaspoon  salt. 
Pepper. 


Cream  of  Spinach  Soup 

1  cup  raw  ground  or  finely  chopped       2  tablespoons  flour. 

spinach.  2  tablespoons  melted  butter. 

1  quart  milk.  1  teaspoon  salt. 

If  the  spinach  is  ground,  place  a  bowl  to  catch  the  liquid  which  runs 
from  the  grinder  and  add  to  the  spinach.  Heat  the  milk  in  a  double 
boiler  and  add  to  it  the  flour  and  fat,  which  have  been  well  blended, 
and  the  ground  spinach  and  salt.  Stir  until  thickened,  and  cook  for 
about  10  minutes. 


RADIO 


RECIPES 


REVISED 


13 


^uic^  Turnip  Soup 


1  quart  milk. 

1  onion,  cut  in  half. 

1  tablespoon  flour. 

2  tablespoons  melted  butter. 


2  cups  grated  raw  turnip. 
1  teaspoon  salt. 
Chopped  parsley. 


Heat  the  milk  in  a  double  boiler  with  the  onion,  add  the  flour  and 
fat,  which  have  been  well  blended,  then  the  turnip,  and  salt.  Cook 
until  the  turnip  is  tender,  or  for  about  10  minutes,  and  remove  the 
onion.  Sprinkle  chopped  parsley  over  the  soup  just  before  serving. 


♦ 


Vegetable  Soup 


1  large  soup  bone,  cracked. 

3  quarts  cold  water. 

4  tablespoons  fat. 

1  green  pepper,  chopped. 

1  cup  chopped  onion. 

1 14  cups  chopped  celery  and  leaves. 


1  cup  finely  diced  carrots. 

1  cup  finely  diced  turnips. 

2  cups  finely  diced  potatoes. 

2  cups  tomato  juice  and  pulp. 

3  teaspoons  salt,  or  to  taste. 
K  teaspoon  pepper. 


Wash  the  soup  bone  and  be  careful  to  remove  all  small  loose  pieces 
of  bone.  Put  the  bone  in  a  large  kettle,  cover  with  the  cold  water,  and 
simmer  for  2  hours.  Remove  the  bone  from  the  broth.  Cook  all  the 
vegetables,  except  the  tomatoes,  in  the  fat  in  a  skillet  for  about  10 
minutes,  stirring  frequently.  Add  the  vegetables,  tomato,  salt,  and 
pepper  to  the  broth,  and  simmer  until  the  vegetables  are  tender  but 
not  broken.  Serve  the  meat  with  the  soup  or  save  it  for  hash  or 
croquettes. 

This  makes  a  rather  large  quantity  of  soup,  but  it  is  equally  good 
reheated  and  served  another  day. 

♦ 


Cream  of  Vegetable  Soup 


2  tablespoons  finely  chopped  ruta- 
baga turnip. 
2  tablespoons  finely  chopped  carrots. 
2  tablespoons  finely  chopped  onion. 
2  tablespoons  finely  chopped  celery. 


2  tablespoons  melted  butter. 

1  tablespoon  flour. 

1  quart  milk. 

1  ,l->  teaspoons  salt. 


Cook  the  finely  chopped  vegetables  in  the  fat  for  10  minutes,  add 
the  flour,  and  stir  until  all  are  well  blended.  In  the  meantime  heat  the 
milk  in  a  double  boiler,  add  a  little  of  it  to  the  vegetable  mixture,  stir 
v.^ell,  combine  with  the  rest  of  the  milk,  add  the  salt,  and  cook  for  10 
niinutes.  The  flavor  is  improved  if  the  soup  is  allowed  to  istand  for  a 
short  time  to  blend  before  serving.  Reheat  and  serve. 


14 


AUNT  SAMMY'S 


Meats' 


Ground  Beef  Broiled  on  Toast 

1  pound  ground  raw  beef.  Butter. 

8  slices  bread.  Salt  and  pepper  to  ta.St^. 

Toa^  the  bread  on  one  side.  Butter  the  untoa^ed  side,  spread  to 
the  edge  with  a  layer  of  the  ground  beef,  dot  with  the  butter,  and  broil 
under  a  flame  for  about  5  minutes.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and 
serve  at  once  with  a  garnish  of  parsley  or  pickles. 


Beef  and  Ham  Gumho  in  Rice  Ring 

%  pound  cured  ham,  diced.  1  pint  water. 

1  pound  beef,  diced.  1  quart  tomatoes,  fresh  or  canned. 

2  tablespoons  chopped  parsley.  1  quart  okra,  cut  crosswise. 

1  onion,  sliced.  Bay  leaf  or  celery  seed,  if  desired. 

1  green  pepper,  chopped  fine.  Salt  and  pepper  to  ta^e. 

}4  cup  chopped  celery. 

Cook  the  ham  and  beef  until  browned  in  a  large  heavy  skillet.  Add 
the  parsley,  onion,  green  pepper,  and  celery,  and  cook  for  a  few 
minutes.  Add  the  water  and  tomatoes,  cover,  and  simmer  until  the 
meat  is  almost  tender.  Then  add  the  okra.  Season  to  ta^e  and  simmer 
uncovered  until  the  okra  is  tender  and  the  stew  has  thickened.  Serve 
the  gumbo  in  a  rice  ring  made  as  follows:  ! 

RICE  RING 

1  cup  rice.  2  tablespoons  butter. 

4  cups  water.  2  dashes  tabasco  sauce. 

1  teaspoon  salt. 

Wash  the  rice  well,  and  sprinkle  it  into  the  rapidly  boiling  salted 
water.  Cook  for  about  20  minutes,  or  until  the  rice  is  tender  and  the 
water  absorbed.  Add  the  seasonings,  put  the  rice  into  a  welhgreased 
ring  mold,  and  pat  it  down.  Reheat  in  the  oven,  turn  onto  a  round 
platter,  fill  the  center  with  the  gumbo,  and  serve  at  once. 

'  Leaflet  17,  Cooking  Beef  According  to  the  Cut;  Leaflet  28,  Lamb  as  You  Like  It;  Leaflet  45,  Pork  in 
Preferred  Ways;  Leaflet  66,  Rabbit  Recipes,  all  give  additional  recipes  for  meat  dishes  and  discuss  briefly 
the  principles  of  meat  cookery.  '  .. 


RADIO     RECIPES  REVISED 


15 


Corned  Beef  Hash 

1  pound  cooked  corned  beef.  Dash  of  cayenne  pepper. 

5  boiled  potatoes.  Salt. 
Onion  to  flavor. 


Put  meat,  potatoes,  and  onion  through  the  meat  grinder,  using  the 
fine  knife.  Add  the  cayenne  and  salt  to  ta^e  and  mix  thoroughly. 
Grease  lightly  a  heavy  skillet.  Pat  in  the  hash  in  an  even  layer  and 
cook  over  low  heat  until  a  golden  brown  cru^  is  formed.  When 
brown,  place  a  pan  or  lid  over  the  skillet  and  turn  the  hash  out  so  the 
browned  side  is  on  top.  Slip  the  uncooked  side  in  the  skillet  and  allow 
this  side  to  become  golden  brown.  Turn  out  on  a  plate,  garnish  with 
parsley,  and  serve  at  once. 

♦ 


Beef  Loaf 


2  pounds  lean  beef. 

1  cup  diced  salt  pork  (about 

pound). 
4  tablespoons  flour. 
1  ]4  cups  milk. 
1  cup  chopped  celery. 


1  cup  chopped  parsley. 
}4  cup  chopped  onion. 

1  cup  fine,  dry  bread  crumbs. 

2  teaspoons  salt. 

Vs  teaspoon  pepper. 

4  or  5  dashes  tabasco  sauce. 


Put  the  meat  through  u  grinder.  Fry  the  diced  salt  pork  until  light 
brown  and  crisp  and  remove  the  pieces  from  the  pan.  Make  a  sauce 
of  the  flour,  milk,  and  3  tablespoons  of  the  pork  drippings.  Cook  the 
celery,  parsley,  and  onion  for  a  few  minutes  in  the  reA  of  the  pork 
drippings,  and  add  to  this  the  bread  crumbs  and  seasonings.  Combine 
all  the  ingredients  and  use  the  hands  to  mix  thoroughly.  The  mixture 
will  have  a  sticky  consi^ency.  Lay  a  piece  of  parchment  paper  on  a 
lack  in  an  open  roaming  pan.  Mold  the  meat  loaf  on  the  paper  with 
the  hands.  Bake  the  loaf  in  a  moderate  oven  (350°  F.)  for  IM  hours. 
Do  not  cover  the  pan  and  do  not  add  water.  Much  better  results  are 
obtained  by  making  the  meat  loaf  in  this  way  than  by  packing  it  into 
a  deep  pan  and  baking  it  like  a  loaf  of  bread.  Remove  the  meat  loaf 
from  the  paper  and  serve  hot,  or  chill  it  and  serve  in  thin  slices  with 
watercress  garnish. 


Brown  Steiv  of  Beef 

4  tablespoons  flour.  1  quart  water. 

2  pounds  beef.  M  cup  chopped  parsley. 

Salt.  Pepper. 

1  small  onion,  chopped. 


Brown  the  4  tablespoons  of  flour  in  the  oven  or  in  a  heavy  skillet 
over  low  heat.  Wipe  the  meat  with  a  damp  cloth,  cut  into  small  pieces, 


16 


AUNT  SAMMY'S 


sprinkle  with  sait,  and  roll  in  flour  that  has  not  been  browned.  Try 
out  some  of  the  suet,  add  the  meat  and  onion,  and  cook  for  a  few  min^ 
utes.  Add  the  water,  cover,  and  simmer  until  the  meat  is  tender.  Stir 
in  the  browned  flour,  season  with  pepper,  cook  for  5  minutes,  and 
sprinkle  the  parsley  over  the  top  before  serving. 


Fresh  Beef  Tongue 

1  beef  tongue.  1  onion. 

3  sprigs  parsley.  1  teaspoon  peppercorns. 

1  teaspoon  salt.  2  bay  leaves. 

Wash  the  tongue,  cover  it  with  hot  water,  add  the  seasonings,  and 
simmer  for  Iji  to  3  hours,  or  until  the  meat  is  tender.  Skin  the  tongue, 
slice,  and  serve  hot,  or  allow  it  to  cool  in  the  liquid  after  skinning  and 
serve  cold. 

Make  a  stew  from  the  meat  at  the  base  of  the  tongue,  the  Hquid,  and 
added  vegetables.  Or  cook  spinach  or  kale  in  the  liquid,  and  serve  with 
the  meat  w/hich  is  not  in  shape  for  slicing. 


♦ 


Boiled  Dinner 


4  pounds  corned  beef. 
4  quarts  cold  water. 
3  large  onions. 
2  large  turnips. 


3  parsnips. 

5  carrots. 

3  large  potatoes. 

1  small  head  cabbage. 


Wash  the  beef,  and  prepare  the  vegetables  and  cut  them  in  halves  or 
quarters.  Cover  the  beef  with  the  water,  bring  to  the  boiling  point, 
and  drain.  Cover  the  meat  again  with  4  more  quarts  of  water  and  let 
it  simmer  until  tender.  Take  the  meat  out  of  the  water.  If  the  liquid 
is  too  salty,  pour  off  part  of  it  and  add  sufficient  fresh  water  to  have  at 
least  3  pints  of  well-flavored  broth.  To  this  broth  add  the  onions  fir^c, 
then  30  minutes  later  the  re^  of  the  vegetables,  and  cook  for  25  to  30 
m-inutes  longer,  or  until  the  vegetables  are  tender.  Serve  the  boiled 
dinner  on  a  large  platter,  with  the  reheated  meat  in  the  center  and  the 
vegetables  drained  and  placed  neatly  around  it.  By  this  method  the 
vegetables  are  tender  and  yet  not  overcooked,  as  is  sometimes  the  case 
in  a  boiled  dinner. 


RADIO     RECIPES  REVISED 


17 


Boiled  Ham 

Selecft  a  10  or  12  pound  ham,  scrub  it  thoroughly,  and  if  very  dry  or 
salty,  soak  the  ham  overnight  in  cold  water  to  cover.  Place  the  ham  on 
a  rack  in  a  ham  boiler  or  a  large  kettle  and  add  boiling  water  to  cover. 
Simmer,  but  do  not  boil,  and  add  more  water  when  necessary  to  keep 
the  ham  well  covered  throughout  the  cooking.  Cover  partly  with  a  lid. 
If  desired  place  in  the  kettle  1  carrot  sliced,  2  stalks  celery,  1  teaspoon 
celery  salt,  3  sprigs  parsley,  1  onion  sliced,  2  or  3  bay  leaves,  and  one- 
half  cup  vinegar.  A  roa^  meat  thermometer  can  be  used  to  tell  wheii 
the  ham  is  done.  Insert  the  thermometer  through  a  small  cut  in  the 
rind  of  the  raw  ham  into  the  center  of  the  thickest  part  and  let  it  remain 
in  the  meat  during  the  cooking.  Cook  until  the  thermometer  regi^ers 
170°  F.  If  the  thermometer  is  not  used,  simmer  the  ham  for  about  5 
hours,  or  for  25  to  30  minutes  per  pound.  For  plain  boiled  ham,  let 
it  cool  in  the  broth.  Or  to  give  a  more  attractive  finish,  remove  the 
skin  while  the  ham  is  hot,  sprinkle  the  surface  with  brown  sugar,  dot 
with  whole  cloves,  and  brown  the  sugar  coating  in  a  hot  oven  (about 
450°  F.). 

♦ 

Ham  en  Casserole 

Place  a  thick  slice  of  ham  in  a  baking  dish.  Add  thinly  sliced  raw 
potatoes  which  have  been  sprinkled  lightly  with  flour.  Pour  over  them 
enough  hot  milk  to  cover,  add  the  lid,  and  bake  slowly  for  about  an 
hour  and  a  half,  or  until  the  potatoes  and  ham  are  thoroughly  cooked. 
The  salt  and  fat  of  the  ham  are  sufficient  to  season  the  potatoes.  If 
necessary,  add  a  little  milk  from  time  to  time  during  cooking,  and  toward 
the  end  remove  the  lid  to  let  the  potatoes  brown  on  top.  Serve  in  the 
baking  dish. 

If  the  ham  is  very  salty,  soak  it,  preferably  in  buttermilk  or  sour  milk, 
before  cooking  it  with  the  potatoes.  The  acid  of  sour  milk  seems  to 
soften  the  ham  and  make  it  more  tender  when  cooked. 

♦ 

Ham  Smothered  with  Sweetpotatoes 

1  slice  ham.  2  tablespoons  sugar. 

3  sweetpotatoes,  sliced.  1  cup  hot  water. 

Brown  the  ham  lightly  on  both  sides  and  place  in  a  baking  dish. 
Spread  the  sliced  sweetpotatoes  over  the  ham  and  sprinkle  with  the 
sugar.  Add  the  hot  water  to  the  drippings,  pour  over  the  ham  and 
sweetpotatoes,  cover,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  (350°  F.)  until  the 
ham  is  tender.  Ba^e  occasionally  with  the  gravy,  toward  the  lasst 
remove  the  lid,  and  let  the  top  brown. 


18 


AUNT  SAMMY'S 


Ham  Souffle 

2  tablespoons  melted  butter  1  cup  dry  bread  crumbs. 

or  other  fat.  2  cups  ground  cooked  ham. 

2  tablespoons  flour.  1  tablespoon  chopped  parsley. 

2  cups  milk.  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

3  eggs. 

Prepare  a  sauce  of  the  fat,  flour,  and  milk.  Separate  the  egg  yolks  and 
whites  and  beat  each  well.  Mix  the  bread  crumbs,  egg  yolks,  and  ham 
with  the  sauce,  and  add  the  parsley,  salt,  and  pepper.  Fold  in  the 
beaten  whites  of  eggs,  turn  into  a  greased  baking  dish,  and  bake  in  a 
very  moderate  oven  (300°  F.)  for  about  1  hour,  or  until  set  in  the 
center.    Serve  from  the  dish  immediately. 


Stujfed  Beef  or  Calf  Heart 

1  beef  heart,  or  2  calf  hearts.  }4  green  pepper,  chopped. 

2  tablespoons  bacon  fat  or  drip'         3  cups  bread  crumbs, 
pings.  }4  teaspoon  salt. 

1  small  onion,  chopped.  1  cup  chopped  celery. 

Wash  the  heart  and  remove  grille  and  veins.  Make  a  slit  in  the  side 
and  fill  with  buffing  made  as  follows:  Melt  the  fat,  cook  the  onion 
and  green  pepper  for  a  few  minutes,  add  the  bread  crumbs,  salt,  and 
celery,  and  ^tir  until  well  mixed.  Sprinkle  the  heart  inside  and  out 
with  salt  and  pepper,  fill  with  the  hot  buffing,  and  sew  up  the  slit. 
Sear  the  heart  in  hot  fat,  place  in  a  baking  dish,  add  3^  cup  of  hot 
water,  cover,  and  cook  until  tender  in  a  very  moderate  oven  (300°  F.). 
A  beef  heart  will  require  about  2  hours.  A  calf  heart  will  cook  tender 
in  much  shorter  time.  Remove  the  heart  and  add  flour  to  the  drippings 
and  enough  water  to  make  a  thin  gravy.  Serve  surrounded  by  the 
gravy. 

♦ 

Kidney  Stew 

1  beef  kidney.  1  tablespoon  melted  butter 

1  cup  diced  potato.  or  other  fat. 

1  small  onion,  sHced.  1  egg  yolk. 

%  teaspoon  salt.  Chopped  parsley. 

1  tablespoon  flour.  Few  drops  tabasco  sauce. 

1  tablespoon  lemon  juice. 

Wash  the  kidney  well,  and  remove  the  skin  and  mo^  of  the  fat. 
Cover  with  cold  water,  heat  slowly  to  the  boiling  point,  discard  the 
water,  and  repeat  the  process  until  there  is  no  ^rong  odor  and  no  scum 
on  the  water.  Then  add  about  1  quart  of  fresh  water  and  simmer  the 
kidney  until  tender.  Remove  the  kidney  and  cut  into  small  pieces. 
Reserve  the  broth  and  cook  the  potato  and  onion  in  it.  Then  add  the 


RADIO 


RECIPES 


REVISED 


19 


kidney  and  the  salt.  Thicken  with  the  blended  flour  and  fat,  and  cook 
for  a  few  minutes  longer.  Stir  some  of  the  ^ew  into  the  beaten  egg 
yolk,  mix  all  together,  and  add  the  parsley,  tabasco  sauce,  and  lemon 
juice.  The  heat  of  the  Stew  will  cook  the  egg  sufficiently.  Serve  at 
once. 

♦ 

Liver  and  Bacon 

}/2  pound  sliced  bacon.  Pepper. 
1  pound  sliced  liver.  Flour. 
Salt.  Parsley. 

Cook  the  bacon  slowly  in  a  skillet.  As  soon  as  it  is  delicately  browned 
and  crisp,  drain  on  paper,  and  keep  warm.  Wipe  the  liver,  and  if  it  is 
hog  or  lamb  liver  scald  for  a  few  minutes  in  hot  water.  Beef  and  calf 
liver  does  not  need  scalding.  Sprinkle  the  pieces  of  liver  with  salt  and 
pepper,  dip  in  flour,  and  cook  in  the  bacon  fat  at  moderate  heat  until 
the  liver  is  lightly  browned.  Serve  surrounded  by  the  crisp  bacon  on 
a  hot  platter  and  garnish  with  parsley.  If  gravy  is  desired,  reserve  2 
tablespoons  of  the  fat,  add  2  tablespoons  of  flour,  and  1)4  cups  of  milk 
or  cold  water,  and  Stir  constantly  until  thickened.  Season  with  salt, 
pepper,  and  a  little  minced  onion.  Serve  hot  with  the  liver  and  bacon. 


Scalloped  Liver  and  Potatoes 

1  pound  liver,  sliced  thin.  1  quart  thinly  sliced  potatoes. 
Salt  and  pepper.  1  small  onion,  minced. 
Flour.  Ii4  cups  milk. 

2  tablespoons  bacon  fat. 

Salt  and  flour  the  liver  and  brown  lightly  in  the  bacon  fat.  Place  a 
layer  of  the  raw  potatoes  in  a  greased  baking  dish,  sprinkle  with  salt 
and  pepper,  add  some  of  the  liver  and  onion,  and  continue  until  all  are 
used.  The  top  layer  should  be  of  potatoes.  Pour  on  the  milk,  cover, 
and  bake  for  1  hour  in  a  moderate  oven  (350°  F.),  or  until  the  potatoes 
are  tender.  At  the  last  remove  the  cover  and  allow  the  potatoes  to 
brown  on  top. 

♦ 


Liver  and  Rice  Loaf 


cup  rice. 
4  cups  boiling  water. 

1  pound  sliced  liver. 

2  tablespoons  fat. 

1  small  onion,  chopped  fine. 


1  cup  chopped  celery. 
M  cup  chopped  parsley. 

2  tablespoons  flour. 

1  cup  tomatoes,  canned  or  fresh. 

2  teaspoons  salt. 


Cook  the  rice  until  tender  in  boiling  water  and  do  not  drain ;  but  let 
the  rice  absorb  the  water  so  as  to  form  a  Sticky  mass  which  will  adt  as  a 
binder  for  the  loaf.  Wipe  the  Hver  with  a  damp  cloth.  Sprinkle  the  liver 


20 


AUNT  SAMMY'S 


with  salt  and  flour,  and  cook  in  the  fat  in  a  skillet  for  about  3  minutes. 
Remove  the  liver,  and  grind  or  chop  it  very  fine.  Cook  the  onion,  celery, 
and  parsley  in  the  drippings  for  a  few  minutes,  add  the  flour  and  toma' 
toes,  and  ^ir  briskly  until  thickened.  Then  mix  all  the  ingredients 
until  thoroughly  blended,  form  into  a  loaf  with  the  hands  on  parchment 
paper  placed  on  a  rack  in  an  open  roaming  pan.  Bake  for  about  30  min' 
utes  in  a  moderate  oven  (350°  F.). 


Savory  TsAeat  on  Toast 


1  pound  chopped  lamb,  beef,  or  pork. 
4  cups  chopped  celery  stalks  and 
leaves. 

1  small  onion,  chopped. 

2  cups  canned  tomatoes. 


1  teaspoon  salt. 
Pepper. 

2  tablespoons  butter  or  other  fat. 
2  tablespoons  flour. 

Toata. 


Brown  the  chopped  meat  in  its  own  fat  in  a  skillet.  Add  the  celery, 
onion,  tomatoes,  salt,  and  pepper,  cover,  and  cook  for  15  minutes,  or 
until;  the  meat  is  tender.  Add  the  blended  fat  and  flour,  and  ^ir  until 
the  mixture  has  thickened.  Serve  on  slices  of  thin  crisp  toast. 


Ox^Tail  Stew 


2  ox  tails. 

2  onions,  sliced. 

1)4  quarts  water. 

4  carrots,  diced. 

2  turnips,  diced. 

1  large  potato,  diced. 


Salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

1  teaspoon  Worcestershire  sauce. 

Flour. 

1  tablespoon  chopped  parsley. 
Slices  of  lemon. 


•  Disjoint  the  ox  tails  into  short  lengths,  wash,  wipe  dry,  and  brown 
in  their  own  fat.  Cook  the  onions  in  the  drippings,  add  to  the  meat 
with  the  water,  and  simmer  for  about  2}4  hours,  or  until  the  meat  is 
almost  done.  Add  the  carrots,  turnips,  and  potato,  and  cook  until  the 
vegetables  are  tender.  Then  add  the  salt,  pepper,  and  sauce,  thickeii 
the  ^ew  with  a  small  quantity  of  flour  mixed  with  a  little  cold  water 
and  cook  for  a  few  minutes  longer.  Sprinkle  with  the  parsley  and 
garnish  with  slices  of  lemon. 


Curry  of  Por^ 

1  cup  sliced  onion.  1  cup  thin  gravy. 

2  tablespoons  pork  drippings.  1  teaspoon  curry  powder. 
4  cups  diced  tart  apples.  2  tablespoons  lemon  juice. 
2  cups  chopped  lean  cooked  pork.  Salt  to  ta!>te. 

Cook  the  onion  in  the  pork  drippings  for  a  few  minutes.  Add  the 
apples,  cover,  and  cook  until  tender.  Add  the  pork,  gravy,  and  season' 
ings,  ^ir,  and  heat  the  mixture  thoroughly.  Serve  hot  with  flaky  rice. 
Green  tomatoes  may  be  used  instead  of  apples. 


21 


Por\  and  Parsnijp  Stew 

VA  pounds  fresh  pork.  teaspoons  salt. 

•  1  large  onion,  sliced.  2  tablespoons  flour. 

1  quart  hot  water.  Chopped  parsley. 
1  quart  diced  parsnips. 

Cut  the  poik  into  small  pieces  and  brown  in  its  own  fat.  Add  to 
this  the  onion  and  cook  a  few  minutes  longer.  Add  the  water  and 
simmer  until  the  meat  is  nearly  tender.  Then  add  the  parsnips  and 
salt,  and  cook  for  15  or  20  minutes.  Mix  the  flour  with  a  small  quan^ 
tity  of  cold  water,  add  to  the  meat  and  vegetables,  and  stir  until  the 
stew  is  thickened.  Sprinkle  with  chopped  parsley  and  serve  hot. 

♦ 


Savory  Por\  and  Veal  Ca\es 

1  pound  veal.  Pepper, 

1  pound  pork.  Bacon. 

1  small  onion,  chopped.  3  tablespoons  flour. 

1  teaspoon  salt.  2  cups  cold  water. 

Wipe  the  meat,  grind  it  fine,  and  mix  in  the  onion,  salt,  and  pepper. 
Form  into  medium'sized  cakes,  wrap  around  the  edge  of  each  a  slice 
of  bacon,  and  fasten  with  a  toothpick.  Sear  the  cakes  on  both  sides 
in  hot  fat  until  golden  brown,  place  in  a  casserole,  cover,  and  bake  in 
a  moderate  oven  (350°  F.)  for  45  minutes.  Remove  the  cakes  and  keep 
warm.  From  the  drippings  skim  off  the  surface  fat,  add  the  flour,  mix 
thoroughly,  add  the  water,  return  the  casserole  to  the  oven,  and  cook 
the  gravy  until  thickened.  Replace  the  meat  cakes  in  the  casserole 
and  serve. 

♦ 


Scrapple 

Seledt  3  pounds  of  bony  pieces  of  pork.  Simmer  in  3  quarts  of  water 
until  the  meat  drops  from  the  bone.  Strain  off  the  broth,  remove  the 
bone,  taking  care  to  get  out  all  the  tiny  pieces,  and  chop  the  meat 
fine.  There  should  be  about  2  quarts  of  broth,  and  if  necessary  add 
water  to  make  this  quantity.  Bring  the  broth  to  the  boiling  point, 
slowly  add  2  cups  of  corn  meal,  cook  the  mixture  until  it  is  thick 
mush,  and  stir  almost  constantly.  Add  the  chopped  meat,  salt,  and 
any  other  seasoning  desired,  such  as  onion  juice,  sage,  and  thyme. 
Pour  the  hot  scrapple  into  oblong  enamelware  pans  which  have  been 
rinsed  with  cold  water.  Let  stand  until  cold  and  firm,  slice,  and 
brown  in  a  hot  skillet.  If  the  scrapple  is  rich  with  fat,  no  more  fat  is 
needed  for  frying. 


22 


AUNT  SAMMY'S 


Shepherd's  Pie 

Grease  a  baking  dish  and  cover  the  sides  with  a  thin  layer  of  seasoned 
mashed  potato.  Fill  the  center  with  well-seasoned,  slightly  thickened 
lamb  stew  without  potatoes,  with  creamed  chicken,  or  fish.  Cover  the 
top  with  the  mashed  potato  and  bake  until  the  pie  is  hot  through  and 
lightly  browned  on  top.  A  small  amount  of  baking  powder  or  a  well' 
beaten  egg  adds  to  the  lightness  of  the  potato. 


♦ 


Veal  Birds 


2  pounds  veal  cutlet.  2  cups  ^tale  bread  crumbs. 

H  cup  chopped  celery.  ,  1  teaspoon  salt. 

1  onion,  minced.  Pepper. 

2  tablespoons  butter  or  other  fat.  }4  pound  sliced  bacon. 

Have  the  veal  sliced  as  thin  as  possible.  Cut  it  into  ^rips  2  to  3 
inches  wide  and  about  4  inches  long,  according  to  the  natural  divisions 
of  the  meat.  For  the  stuffing,  cook  the  celery  and  onion  for  a  few 
minutes  in  the  fat,  add  the  bread  crumbs  and  seasonings,  and  mix 
thoroughly.  Put  a  spoonful  of  the  Gulfing  on  each  ^rip  of  veal,  roll 
carefully,  bind  with  a  slice  of  bacon,  and  skewer  in  place  with  tooth' 
picks.  Brown  the  birds  slowly  on  all  sides  in  the  skillet,  transfer  to  a 
casserole,  add  the  drippings,  cover,  and  cook  in  a  moderate  oven  (350° 
F.)  until  tender,  or  for  about  45  minutes.  Serve  with  the  meat  drip- 
pings  and  garnish  with  cress. 


Jellied  Yeal 


1  knuckle  veal,  about  2  pounds 

2  quarts  cold  water. 
1  onion,  sliced. 

1  tablespoon  gelatin. 

2  tablespoons  cold  water. 
34  cup  finely  cut  celery. 
Salt  and  pepper. 


2  tablespoons  finely  chopped 
parsley. 

1  tablespoon  lemon  juice. 

2  tablespoons  finely  chopped 
pimiento. 

;  8  teaspoon  celery  seed. 
Dash  or  two  of  tabasco  sauce. 


Have  the  butcher  crack  the  bones.  Wash  the  knuckle  well  and  cover 
with  the  2  quarts  cold  water.  Add  the  onion.  Heat  slowly  to  the 
boiling  point  and  then  simmer,  partly  covered,  until  the  meat  is  tender. 
Pour  off  and  measure  the  liquid.  There  should  be  about  a  quart. 
Remove  the  meat  from  the  bones,  discarding  all  grille  and  bone  spliu' 
ters,  and  either  grind  or  chop  the  meat  very  fine.  Soften  the  gelatin 
in  the  2  tablespoons  of  cold  water  and  add  to  the  hot  ^ock,  chill, 
and  when  partly  set  add  the  meat  and  seasonings  and  ^ir  until  well 
mixed.  Season  to  ta^e  with  salt,  pepper,  and  tabasco  sauce.  Rinse  a 
large  mold  or  individual  molds,  pour  in  the  mixture,  and  allow  to  ^and 


RADIO 


RECIPES 


REVISED 


23 


some  hours  or  overnight  in  a  refrigerator.  Remove  from  the  molds  and 
serve  on  a  bed  of  lettuce  with  mayonnaise  dressing.  Thinly  sliced  cu' 
cumber  and  tomato  as  a  garnish  will  add  to  the  attracftiveness  of  the  dish. 


Make  a  sauce  of  the  fat,  flour,  and  liquid.  Add  the  well-beaten  eggs, 
seasoning,  and  meat,  and  mix  thoroughly.  Pour  into  greased  timbale 
molds  or  custard  cups.  Place  the  cups  in  a  pan  of  water.  Bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  (350°  F.)  about  one-half  hour,  or  until  set  in  the  center. 
Turn  the  timbales  out  and  serve  hot. 

Chicken,  lamb,  or  any  left-over  meat  may  be  used  instead  of  veal  in 
making  timbales. 


Veal  Timbales 


2  tablespoons  butter  or  other  fat. 

2  tablespoons  flour. 

1  cup  meat  broth,  milk,  or  thin 


Salt  and  pepper  to  ta^te. 
Lemon  juice  to  ta^e. 
2  cups  ground  cooked  veal. 
1  tablespoon  chopped  parsley. 


gravy. 
2  eggs. 


♦ 


24 


AUNT  SAMMY'S 


t 

r 


Poultry 

Broiled  Chic\en 

Selecft  a  plump,  young  chicken,  split  down  the  back,  draw,  wash,  and 
wipe  dry.  Rub  all  over  with  butter,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper, 
du^  with  flour,  and  place  on  a  rack  in  a  roaming  pan  skin  side  up. 
Broil  under  the  flame  of  an  oven,  and  as  soon  as  lightly  browned 
turn  the  other  side  up.  Continue  to  cook  under  the  flame  for  about 
20  minutes,  then  place  in  a  moderate  oven  (350°  F.)  for  15  minutes  to 
finish.  Throughout  the  cooking  baste  frequently  with  the  drippings 
and  with  melted  butter.  Serve  the  broiled  chicken  on  a  hot  platter 
with  the  drippings  poured  over  it. 

If  more  convenient  start  the  cooking  of  the  chicken  in  the  oven  and 
finish  by  browning  directly  under  the  flame  of  the  oven. 


Casserole  Fowl  with  Vegetables 

3  carrots.  2  tablespoons  butter  or  other  fat. 
1  bunch  celery.  1  cup  hot  water. 

1  onion.  1  cup  milk. 

1  green  pepper.  1 J4  tablespoons  flour. 

4  or  5-pound  fowl. 


Slice  or  chop  the  vegetables  in  very  small  pieces.  Cut  up  the  fowl, 
season  with  salt  and  pepper,  du^  with  flour,  and  brown  delicately  in 
the  fat.  As  the  meat  is  removed  from  the  frying  pan,  place  it  in  a 
casserole.  Pour  the  chopped  vegetables  into  the  frying  pan  and  let 
them  absorb  the  browned  fat.  Then  transfer  them  to  the  casserole, 
add  a  cup  of  hot  water,  cover,  and  cook  in  a  slow  oven  (275°  F.)  for 
3  hours,  or  longer  if  the  fowl  is  very  tough.  Add  more  water  from 
time  to  time  if  necessary.  Just  before  serving,  remove  the  pieces  of 
fowl,  and  add  the  milk  and  flour,  which  have  been  mixed.  Cook  for 
10  minutes  longer  and  pour  the  vegetable  sauce  over  the  chicken,  or 
replace  it  in  the  sauce  and  serve  from  the  casserole. 


RADIO     RECIPES  REVISED 


25 


Chic\en  Chop  Suey  with  Fried  J^oodles 

4-pound  fowl.  2  cups  chicken  broth. 

1  teaspoon  salt.  1  te:ispoon  cornstarch. 

1  green  pepper,  shredded.  1  tablespoon  cold  water. 

2  cups  shredded  onions.  2  cups  sliced  Brazil  nuts  or 
2  tablespoons  fat.  Jerusalem  artichokes. 

2  cups  shredded  celery.  4  tablespoons  soy  sauce. 

Put  the  fowl  on  a  rack  in  a  kettle,  half  fill  with  boiling  water,  add 
the  salt,  partly  cover,  and  simmer  until  nearly  tender.  Let  cool  in  the 
broth,  drain,  and  cut  the  meat  into  small  pieces,  discarding  the  skin. 
Cook  the  green  pepper  and  onion  in  the  fat  in  a  heavy  skillet  for  a 
few  minutes,  and  ^tir  frequently.  Add  the  celery,  chicken,  broth, 
and  mixed  cornstarch  and  water,  cover,  and  simmer  for  5  minutes. 
Then  add  the  nuts  or  artichokes,  the  soy  sauce,  and  more  salt  if 
necessary.  Serve  with  hot  flaky  rice  and  fried  noodles. 

FRIED  NOODLES 

Cook  narrow,  dried  noodles  in  a  large  quantity  of  boiling  salted 
water  for  15  minutes,  drain,  and  place  on  absorbent  paper  to  dry  for 
about  20  minutes.  Have  a  heavy  deep  kettle  about  half  full  of  well- 
flavored  fat  heated  to  375°  to  400°  F.,  or  until  a  cube  of  bread  browns 
in  60  seconds.  Cook  a  small  quantity  of  the  noodles  at  one  time,  for 
the  water  in  the  noodles  causes  the  fat  to  sputter  and  bubble  and  care 
mu^  be  taken  that  it  does  not  boil  over.  When  the  noodles  are  light 
brown,  remove  at  once  from  the  fat,  and  drain  on  absorbent  paper. 


Savory  Creamed  Chic\en 

4-pound  fowl.  Flour. 

1  cup  chopped  celery  and  leaves.  l^i  to  1  cup  cream. 

cup  chopped  onion.  154  teaspoons  salt. 

H  green  pepper,  chopped.  3  drops  tabasco  sauce. 

Place  the  fowl  in  a  kettle  on  a  rack,  half  filled  with  boiling  water, 
cover,  cook  slowly  until  tender,  and  let  ^and  in  the  broth  overnight 
in  a  cold  place.  Skim  the  fat  from  the  broth,  remove  the  chicken  m.eat 
from  the  bones,  and  cut  it  into  uniform  pieces.  Return  the  bones  to  the 
broth  and  simmer  for  a  short  while  so  as  to  get  off  any  small  pieces  of 
meat  that  cHng  to  the  bones.  Brown  the  celery,  onion,  and  green  pep- 
per in  4  tablespoons  of  the  fat  removed  from  the  chicken  ^tock.  Meas- 
ure the  broth.  There  should  be  about  1  quart.  For  each  cup  of  broth 
add  2  tablespoons  of  flour  to  the  cream  and  mix  until  smooth.  Add  to 
the  chicken  broth  with  the  salt  and  the  tabasco,  stir  until  thickened, 
add  the  chicken,  and  mix  until  well  blended.  Serve  on  crisp  toa^t  or 
with  rice  patties. 


26 


AUNT  SAMMY'S 


Curried  Fowl  with  Carrots 


4-pound  fowl. 


1  quart  water. 
Flour. 

14  teaspoon  curry  powder. 

2  cups  shredded  carrots,  cooked. 


Salt. 


2  tablespoons  fat. 
}4  cup  sliced  onion. 


Disjoint  the  fowl,  salt  and  flour  the  pieces,  brown  in  the  fat,  and 
transfer  to  a  kettle.  Cook  the  onion  for  a  few  minutes  in  the  remaining 
fat,  pour  in  the  water,  and  add  to  the  chicken.  Simmer  until  the  fowl 
is  tender,  and  drain  off  and  measure  the  liquid.  For  each  cup  of  liquid, 
blend  1  tablespoon  of  flour  with  2  tablespoons  of  chicken  fat,  ^ir  into 
the  broth,  cook  until  thickened,  add  the  curry,  chicken,  and  cooked 
carrots,  heat  through,  and  serve  with  flaky  boiled  rice.  If  desired,  serve 
grated  fresh  coconut  to  sprinkle  over  the  curried  chicken. 


Cut  a  fowl  into  pieces  for  serving,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  roll 
in  flour,  and  brown  in  hot  fat.  Transfer  to  a  kettle,  add  enough  water 
to  cover,  and  simmer  until  tender.  Remove  the  chicken  and  keep  hot. 
Blend  2  to  3  tablespoons  flour  with  a  little  cold  water,  add  some  of  the 
chicken  broth,  combine  with  the  re^,  and  Air  until  thickened.  Add 
more  salt  when  needed.  Serve  on  a  hot  platter  with  the  dumplings. 


Sift  the  flour,  baking  powder,  and  salt  together.  Beat  the  egg,  add 
the  milk,  and  mix  with  the  dry  ingredients.  Drop  by  small  spoonfuls 
into  the  chicken  gravy,  cover  tightly,  and  cook  for  15  minutes.  The 
cover  muSt  not  be  removed  while  the  dumplings  are  cooking,  for  if  the 
Steam  escapes  they  will  not  be  light. 


Seled;  a  young,  plump  chicken.  Remove  pin  feathers,  wash  the 
chicken,  draw,  and  cut  into  pieces  suitable  for  serving,  and  wipe  dry. 
Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper  and  rub  well  with  flour.  In  a  heavy 
skillet,  heat  a  generous  quantity  of  well-flavored  fat  to  juA  below  the 
smoking  point.  Put  in  the  larger  and  thicker  pieces  of  chicken  so  that 


Fricasseed  Chic\en  with  Dumplings 


DUMPLINGS 


M  cup  sifted  flour. 

2}4  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

14  teaspoon  salt. 


1  egg. 

14  cup  milk. 


Fried  Chic\en 


RADIO     RECIPES  REVISED 


27 


each  piece  will  be  surrounded  by  the  hot  fat,  partly  cover,  and  watch 
closely  to  prevent  scorching.  Turn  the  chicken  as  soon  as  it  becomes 
golden  brown,  reduce  the  heat,  cook  until  tender,  and  drain  on  paper 
to  absorb  the  excess  fat.  As  the  larger  pieces  are  removed,  add  the 
smaller  ones  and  all  will  be  finished  about  the  same  time. 

For  gravy,  to  each  2  tablespoons  of  fat  in  the  skillet  allow  2  table- 
spoons of  flour,  cook  for  a  few  minutes,  ^tir  con^antly,  add  Iji  cups  of 
milk,  and  cook  until  thickened.  Add  more  salt  and  pepper  if  needed, 
sprinkle  finely  chopped  parsley  over  the  gravy,  and  serve  hot  with  the 
chicken. 

♦ 

Chicken  Rizotto 

1  cup  or  more  chopped  cooked  2  tablespoons  butter  or  other  fat. 

chicken.  M  cup  rice. 

1  quart  chicken  broth.  Grated  cheese. 

1  onion,  minced. 

Pick  the  meat  from  the  bones  of  left'over  chicken.  Stew  the  bones  in 
enough  water  to  make  a  quart  of  broth,  and  add  any  left-over  gravy 
that  will  furnish  chicken  flavor.  In  a  large  skillet  cook  the  rm'nced 
onion  for  a  few  minutes  in  the  fat,  add  the  chicken  broth,  and  when  it 
boils  up  rapidly,  sprinkle  the  rice  in  slowly.  Cbver  the  skillet,  simmer 
the  rice  for  about  25  minutes,  or  until  the  grains  swell  and  become  soft, 
and  shake  the  skillet  from  time  to  time  to  keep  the  rice  from  kicking, 
but  do  not  ^ir  it  unless  absolutely  necessary.  By  the  time  the  rice  is 
done  it  will  have  absorbed  the  broth,  and  the  grains  will  be  large  and 
separate.  Then  add  the  small  pieces  of  chicken  and  salt  to  ta^e,  turn 
the  mixture  onto  a  hot  platter,  and  sprinkle  generously  with  grated 
cheese.  The  Italians  use  Parmesan  cheese,  but  any  of  the  American 
varieties  hard  enough  to  grate  will  be  satisfactory. 

♦ 

Roa^  Chic\en  with  Savory  Stujfing 

4  to  5  pound  young  roasting  chicken.  2  cups  fine  bread  crumbs. 

4  tablespcxjns  butter  or  other  fat.  '  2  teaspoon  salt. 

1  cup  chopped  celery  and  leaves.  Pepper. 

2  tablespoons  chopped  onion.  teaspoon  savory  seasoning. 
2  or  3  sprigs  parsley,  cut  fine. 

Seled:  a  plump  roaming  chicken,  draw,  remove  pin  feathers  and  oil  sac, 
wash,  and  wipe  dry  inside  and  out.  For  the  buffing,  melt  the  fat  in  a 
skiUet,  add  the  celery,  onion,  and  parsley  and  cook  for  a  few  minutes; 
then  add  the  bread  crumbs  and  seasonings,  and  ^ir  until  well  mixed  and 
hot.  Sprinkle  salt  inside  the  chicken  and  fill  it  lightly  with  the  hot 
Stuffing.  Fold  the  wings  back  on  the  neck  and  tuck  the  legs  into  the 
band  of  skin  and  flesh  below  the  tail.  Rub  the  surface  of  the  chicken 

39363°— 31  3 


28 


AUNT  SAMMY'S 


with  butter^  sprinkle  with  salt,  pepper,  and  flour,  put  on  a  rack  in  an 
.  open  roasting  pan,  and  sear  in  a  moderately  hot  oven  (about  400°  F.) 
for  30  minutes,  or  until  the  chicken  is  lightly  browned.  Reduce  the 
oven  temperature  to  about  300°  F.,  and  continue  the  cooking  for  1)4. 
hours  or  longer.  Ba^e  the  chicken  occasionally  with  the  pan  drippings 
and  turn  it  so  it  brovvms  evenly  on  all  sides.  Te^  for  doneness  by 
piercing  one  of  the  thighs  near  the  brea^.  If  the  juice  does  not  show  a 
red  tinge  the  chicken  is  done.  Serve  on  a  hot  platter  garnished  with  pars' 
ley.  Make  gravy  with  the  pan  drippings  and  serve  with  the  chicken. 

For  roaming  an  older  bird,  follow  this  same  method  but  use  a  covered 
roa^r. 

♦ 

Smothered  Chicken 

3-pound  young  chicken.  H  teaspoon  salt. 

4  tablespoons  butter.  1  pint  milk. 

2  tablespoons  flour. 

Wash,  draw,  and  split  the  chicken  down  the  back.  Sprinkle  lightly 
with  salt  and  pepper  and  place  flat  in  a  greased  shallow  baking  dish. 
Make  a  sauce  of  the  fat,  flour,  salt,  and  milk,  pour  over  the  chicken, 
and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  (350°  F.)  for  1^  hours,  or  until  the  chicken 
is  tender  and  lightly  browned.  If  the  gravy  has  curdled  during  cooking, 
remove  the  chicken,  add  a  Uttle  blended  milk  and  flour,  ^ir  until  smooth, 
return  the  chicken,  and  reheat.  Garnish  with  parsley  and  serve  in  the 
baking  dish. 


KoaSt  Goose  with  Celery  Stuffing 

8  to  10  pound  goose  2  quarts  bread  crumbs. 

yz  cup  goose  fat  and  butter.  2  teaspoons  salt. 

1  quart  cut  celery.  ]4  teaspoon  pepper. 

1  cup  chopped  parsley.  1  teaspoon  celery  seed. 

114  cups  chopped  onion.  14  teaspoon  savory  seasoning. 

Draw  and  singe  the  goose,  remove  the  oil  sac  and  pin  feathers,  cleanse 
thoroughly,  and  wipe  dry  inside  and  out.  Remove  some  of  the  fat  from 
inside  the  goose,  cut  into  small  pieces,  and  add  enough  butter  to  make 
one  half  a  cup.  Melt  the  fat  in  a  large  skillet,  add  the  parsley  and 
onion,  cook  for  a  few  minutes,  and  add  the  bread  crumbs  and  season- 
ings.  Stir  until  well  blended  and  combine  with  the  raw  celery.  Sprinkle 
the  inside  of  the  goose  with  salt  and  pepper  and  fill  with  the  hot  ^uiEng, 
but  do  not  pack.  Sew  up  the  slits  and  tie  down  the  legs.  If  all  the 
^tufling  will  not  go  in,  bake  until  brown  in  a  greased  baking  dish  and 
serve  with  the  goose.  Rub  the  goose  with  melted  fat,  salt,  pepper,  and 
flour,  place  on  a  rack  in  an  uncovered  pan  without  water,  sear  in  a  hot 
oven  (about  450°  F.)  for  30  to  40  minutes,  or  until  Ughtly  browned. 
Reduce  the  temperature  to  375°  F.,  and  continue  the  cooking  for  2 
to  3  hours.  Ba^e  the  goose  occasionally  and  turn  so  that  it  will  brown 


RADIO     RECIPES  REVISED 


29 


on  all  sides.  Te^  for  doneness  by  piercing  one  of  the  thighs  near  the 
brea^.  If  the  juice  does  not  show  red  the  goose  is  done.  Serve  on  a 
large  hot  platter  garnished  with  parsley  or  celery  tops. 


Roail  Tur\ey  with  Che^nut  Stuffing 

10  to  12  pound  young  turkey.  2  cups  chopped  celery  and  tops. 

1  pound  large  chestnuts.  6  cups  fine  dry  bread  crumbs. 

14  cup  butter,  or  }4  cup  butter  and  2  teaspoons  salt. 

K  cup  turkey  fat.  M  teaspoon  pepper. 

H  cup  minced  onion.  1  teaspoon  savory  seasoning. 
14  cup  chopped  parsley. 

Draw  and  singe  the  turkey,  remove  the  oil  sac  and  pin  feathers, 
cleanse  thoroughly,  and  wipe  dry.  Cook  the  che^uts  in  boiling  water 
to  cover  for  20  minutes,  remove  the  shell  and  brown  skin  while  hot, 
and  chop  into  medium'sized  pieces.  Melt  the  butter  in  a  skillet,  cook 
the  onion,  parsley,  and  celery  for  a  few  minutes,  and  ^ir  frequently. 
Combine  the  bread  crumbs,  che^nuts,  salt,  pepper,  and  savory  season' 
ing,  add  to  the  celery  mixture,  and  ^  until  thoroughly  mixed  and  hot. 
Sprinkle  the  inside  of  the  turkey  with  salt  and  fill  with  the  hot  stuffing, 
but  do  not  pack.  Fold  the  wings  back  on  the  neck.  Tuck  the  legs  into 
a  band  of  skin  and  flesh  below  the  tail,  or  tie  them  down.  Sew  the  cut 
surfaces  so  that  the  buffing  will  not  fall  out  or  become  moi^  when 
ba^ed.  After  the  turkey  is  buffed  and  trussed,  rub  the  surface  with 
butter,  sprinkle  with  salt,  pepper,  and  flour,  lay  a  piece  of  fat  over  the 
brea^bone,  and  put  on  a  rack  in  an  open  roaming  pan.  Place  in  a  hot 
oven  (about  450°  F.)  for  about  30  minutes  to  brown  Hghtly.  Reduce 
the  oven  heat  to  moderate  (350°  F.)  and  continue  to  roa^  for  about 
2}4  hours  longer.  Ba^e  occasionally  with  the  drippings  and  turn  the 
turkey  fir^  on  one  side  and  then  on  the  other,  so  that  it  browns  well 
all  over.  Te^  for  "doneness"  by  piercing  one  of  the  thighs  near  the 
brea^;  if  the  juice  does  not  show  a  red  tinge,  the  turkey  is  done.  Serve 
on  a  large  hot  platter,  garnish  with  parsley  or  celery  tops,  and  make 
gravy  with  the  giblets  and  drippings. 

For  an  older  turkey,  as  soon  as  it  is  browned,  put  a  cover  on  the 
roa^r  and  cook  for  about  4  hours. 


Gihlet  Gravy 

Simmer  the  giblets  (liver  and  gizzard)  in  1  quart  water  until  tender, 
drain  and  chop  fine.  With  }/2  cup  of  the  drippings  in  the  roarer,  blend 
6  tablespoons  flour,  add  the  hquid  in  which  the  giblets  were  cooked 
and  enough  more  hot  water  to  make  a  thin  gravy.  Cook  for  5  minutes, 
add  the  chopped  giblets,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  serve  with 
the  turkey. 


30 


AUNT  SAMMY'S 


Fish  and  Shellfish 
♦ 

Clam  Fritters 

lyi  pints  shucked  clams  (I1-2  dozen  2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

clams).  1  teaspoon  salt. 

2  eggs.  2  tablespoons  melted  fat. 

IM  cups  sifted  flour. 

Drain  the  clams  from  their  liquor  and  chop  them  fine.  Beat  the 
eggs,  add  the  sifted  dry  ingredients,  one-half  cup  of  the  clam  liquor, 
melted  fat,  and  chopped  clams.  Stir  until  well  mixed.  Heat  well- 
flavored  fat  in  a  skillet,  drop  the  batter  by  spoonfuls  into  the  fat, 
allow  suiBcient  space  between  the  fritters  for  them  to  spread  and  rise, 
brown  on  both  sides,  drain  on  absorbent  paper,  and  serve  at  once. 


Codfish  Balls 


%  pound  salt  codfish. 
Cold  water. 


3  cups  hot  mashed  potatoes,  sea- 
soned with  milk  and  butter  or 
other  fat. 

2  eggs. 


Gut  the  codfish  into  small  pieces  and  soak  it  in  1  quart  of  cold  water 
for  about  2  hours.  Drain,  add  another  quart  of  water,  and  simmer  for 
30  minutes.  Place  the  fish  in  a  double  layer  of  cheesecloth,  press  out 
all  the  liquid,  shred  the  fish,  and  remove  all  bones.  Mix  the  shredded 
fish,  hot  mashed  potatoes,  and  well-beaten  eggs,  beat  until  light,  and 
add  salt  if  necessary.  Drop  by  spoonfuls  into  a  kettle  of  fat  hot 
enough  to  brown  a  cube  of  bread  in  40  seconds ;  when  golden  brown, 
drain  on  absorbent  paper  and  serve  at  once,  garnished  with  cress  or 
parsley. 


Codfish,  Spaghetti,  and  Tomatoes 


Yz  pound  salt  codfish,  diced. 
2  cups  spaghetti,  broken  in 
small  pieces. 

1  quart  canned  tomatoes. 

2  bay  leaves. 

1  onion,  sliced. 


2  tablespoons  chopped  parsley. 
2  tablespoons  olive  oil  or  other 
fat. 

cup  chopped  ohves. 
Salt  if  needed. 


Soak  the  codfish  in  cold  water  to  cover  for  2  hours  or  longer,  until 
sufficient  salt  has  been  removed,  and  drain.  Cook  the  spaghetti  in 
boiling  salted  water  until  tender  and  drain.  Simmer  the  tomatoes  and 


RADIO     RECIPES  REVISED 


31 


codfish  with  the  bay  leaves  for  about  20  minutes  and  remove  the  bay 
leaves.  Cook  the  onion  and  parsley  in  the  olive  oil  for  a  few  minutes, 
combine  all  the  ingredients,  and  cook  for  a  few  minutes  longer.  Serve 
hot. 

♦ 

Scalloped  Crah  Meat 

2  cups  cooked  or  canned  crab  meat.  teaspoon  salt. 

2  tablespoons  melted  butter.  2  cups  cream  or  rich  milk. 

2  tablespoons  flour.  1  cup  buttered  bread  crumbs. 

Pick  over  the  crab  meat,  and  remove  all  particles  of  shell  and  bony 
pieces  from  between  the  sections  of  meat.  Spread  the  meat  in  a  thin 
layer  in  a  greased  shallow  baking  dish,  pour  over  it  a  sauce  made  of 
the  fat,  flour,  salt,  and  cream,  cover  the  top  with  the  buttered  bread 
crumbs,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  (350°  F.)  until  the  crumbs  are 
brown  and  the  sauce  bubbles  up  around  the  crab  meat.  If  desired, 
chopped  pimiento  or  green  pepper  may  be  added  to  the  sauce. 

♦ 

Creamed  Finnan  Haddie 

2  pounds  finnan  haddie.  2  cups  milk. 

4  tablespoons  butter  or  other  fat.  Salt  to  ta^. 

4  tablespoons  flour.  Pepper. 

Cut  the  fish  into  2  or  3  large  pieces  so  that  it  will  fit  conveniently 
into  a  saucepan,  cover  with  cold  water,  bring  slowly  to  the  boiling 
point,  simmer  for  15  to  20  minutes,  and  drain.  If  the  haddie  is  very  dry 
and  salty,  add  fresh  water,  cook  a  second  time,  and  drain.  Pick  the 
flakes  of  fish  from  the  bones,  add  to  the  sauce  made  from  the  fat,  flour, 
milk,  and  seasonings,  and  serve  at  once. 


Broiled  Fresh  Fish 

Have  the  fish  split  down  the  back,  wipe  clean,  and  remove  any  scales 
and  the  head  and  tail  if  desired.  Lay  the  fish  skin  side  down  on  a 
greased  shallow  pan.  If  the  fish  is  oily,  no  fat  need  be  added;  otherwise 
add  enough  to  season  well.  Place  under  the  flame  in  a  broiler  at  moder' 
ate  heat  and  cook  for  20  to  30  minutes.  Slip  the  broiled  fish  carefully 
onto  a  hot  platter,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  pour  on  the  drippings, 
garnish  with  cress  or  parsley  and  sliced  lemon,  and  serve  at  once.  If 
the  fish  is  very  large  and  thick,  heat  for  15  to  20  minutes  in  a  moderate 
oven  before  putting  under  the  broiler  flame. 


32 


AUNT  SAMMY'S 


Curried  Fish 


2  pounds  fresh  cod,  halibut,  or 

other  large  fish. 
4  tablespoons  butter  or  other  fat. 
1  tablespoon  chopped  green  pepper. 
1  small  onion,  chopped. 
}i  cup  chopped  celery. 


3  tablespoons  flour. 

2  cups  liquor  from  the  simmered 
fish. 

Mtol  teaspoon  curry  powder. 

3  drops  tabasco  sauce. 
Salt  to  ta^e. 

2  tablespoons  chopped  parsley. 


Simmer  the  fish  about  10  minutes  in  a  small  quantity  of  water,  in  a 
shallow  pan;  then  drain.  Meanwhile  melt  the  fat  and  cook  the  green 
pepper,  onion,  and  celery  a  few  minutes;  add  the  flour  and  the  cooled 
fish  liquor,  with  water,  if  necessary,  to  bring  the  quantity  up  to  2  cups 
Cook  for  3  or  4  minutes,  add  the  seasonings,  and  ^ir  con^antly. 
Remove  the  skin  and  bones  from  the  cooked  fish,  arrange  on  a  hot 
platter  with  a  border  of  flaky  rice,  pour  the  sauce  over  the  fish,  and 
sprinkle  the  parsley  on  top. 


Jellied  Fish  Salad 

2  tablespoons  gelatin.  H  teaspoon  celery  seed. 

14  cup  cold  water.  J4  cup  vinegar. 

2  eggs.  cup  water. 

M  teaspoon  salt.  2  cups  canned  salmon  or  tuna  fish. 

Soften  the  gelatin  in  the  cold  water  for  5  minutes.  Beat  the  eggs,  add 
the  salt,  celery  seed,  vinegar,  and  water,  and  cook  over  boiling  water 
until  thickened.  Add  the  softened  gelatin  and  ^ir  until  the  gelatin  has 
dissolved;  then  add  the  fish  which  has  been  separated  from  the  bones 
and  minced.  Pour  into  individual  dampened  molds,  let  ^and  in  a  cold 
place  until  firmly  set,  turn  out  on  crisp  lettuce,  and  serve  with 
mayonnaise. 

♦ 


Ba\ed  Fish  Stea\ 

2  pounds  cod  or  halibut  ^teak.  teaspoon  salt. 

H  cup  melted  butter.  Flour. 

2  tablespoons  lemon  juice.  H  cup  finely  chopped  parsley. 
1  teaspoon  minced  onion. 

Wipe  the  fish,  remove  any  bones,  and  cut  it  into  pieces  for  serving. 
To  the  melted  fat  add  the  lemon  juice,  minced  onion,  and  salt.  Dip 
each  piece  of  fish  in  this  mixture,  roll,  and  fasten  with  a  toothpick. 
Put  the  fish  rolls  in  a  greased,  shallow  baking  dish,  sprinkle  with  flour, 
and  pour  the  rest  of  the  fat  over  the  fish.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
(350°  F.)  about  25  minutes.  If  not  sufiiciently  browned,  put  under 
the  flame  of  the  broiling  oven.  Sprinkle  the  parsley  over  the  fish  and 
serve  from  the  dish. 


RADIO 


RECIPES 


REVISED 


33 


Broiled  Salt  Mackerel 

Select  a  fat  salt  mackerel  and  soak  overnight  in  cold  water  to  cover. 
If  sufficient  salt  has  been  removed,  place  the  fish  split  side  up  under  the 
flame  of  the  broiling  oven,  cook  slowly  to  a  light  brown,  slip  onto  a  hot 
platter,  add  melted  butter,  and  garnish  with  thin  slices  of  lemon  and 
parsley. 

If  the  fish  is  ^ill  very  salty  after  soaking,  place  in  a  skillet,  cover  with 
cold  water,  allow  the  water  to  come  to  a  boil,  and  pour  it  off.  Then 
broil  as  described. 

♦ 


Fried  Fish  Roe 

Wipe  the  roe,  sprinkle  with  salt,  pepper,  and  flour.  Put  into  a  skillet 
with  melted  fat  and  cook  slowly  until  golden  brown  on  both  sides. 
Serve  on  a  hot  platter  garnished  with  lemon  and  parsley. 

♦ 


Fish  Timhales 

2  tablespoons  butter.  1  tablespoon  lemon  juice. 

2  tablespoons  flour.  1  tablespoon  chopped  parsley. 

1  cup  milk.  1  teaspoon  minced  onion. 

2  eggs.  Salt  to  ta^. 
2  cups  flaked  cooked  or  canned  fish. 

Prepare  a  sauce  of  the  fat,  flour,  and  milk,  add  the  beaten  eggs,  fish, 
and  seasonings,  and  salt  as  needed.  Pour  the  mixture  into  greased  cus' 
tard  cups  and  bake  in  a  pan  of  hot  water  in  a  moderate  oven  (350°  F.) 
for  30  minutes.  Turn  the  timbales  onto  a  hot  platter,  garnish  with 
slices  of  lemon,  and  serve  at  once. 

Tuna,  salmon,  shrimp,  crab  meat,  fresh  cod,  or  any  other  fish  that 
may  be  easily  separated  from  the  bones  may  be  used  in  timbales. 


OySter  Cod^ail 


1)4  pints  raw  oysters. 
}4  cup  tomato  catsup. 
3  tablespoons  vinegar  or  the  juice 
of  1  lemon. 


}4  cup  finely  chopped  celery. 
2  tablespoons  grated  horseradisli. 
14  teaspoon  salt. 
Tabasco  sauce  to  ta^e. 


Drain  the  oy^ers,  remove  all  pieces  of  shell,  chill,  and  place  in  cocktail 
glasses.  Mix  all  the  other  ingredients  and  add  this  sauce  to  the  oy^rs 
ju^  before  serving. 


34 


AUNT  SAMMY'S 


Creamed  OyRers 

1  quart  oy^ers.  1  teaspoon  salt. 

2J^  cups  milk  and  oy^er  liquor.  Vs  teaspoon  pepper. 

J4  cup  melted  butter.  Chopped  parsley. 

}4  cup  flour. 

Look  over  the  oy^ers  and  remove  any  bits  of  shell.  Simmer  the 
oy^ers  in  their  liquor  about  5  minutes,  until  the  edges  begin  to  curl, 
and  remove  at  once  from  the  fire.  Strain  off  the  liquor  and  add  enough 
milk  to  make  cups.  Blend  the  melted  fat  and  flour,  add  the  liquid, 
cook  for  10  minutes  in  a  double  boiler,  add  the  oy^ers  and  seasonings, 
and  serve  at  once  in  patty  shells  or  on  toa^.  If  creamed  oy^ers  stand, 
the  sauce  becomes  too  thin. 

♦ 

Fried  Oy^ers 

Selec±  large  oy^ers  for  single  frys,  drain,  and  look  them  over  care- 
fully for  pieces  of  shell.  Have  finely  sifted  stale  bread  crumbs  seasoned 
with  salt  and  pepper.  Dip  the  oy^ers  in  a  well-beaten  egg  to  which 
1  tablespoon  of  cold  water  has  been  added,  roll  in  the  seasoned 
crumbs,  and  let  ^and  on  a  board  for  about  30  minutes  for  the  egg  and 
bread  coating  to  harden.  Have  ready  a  kettle  of  fat  hot  enough  to 
brown  a  bread  crumb  in  40  seconds.  Carefully  place  the  oy^ers  in  a 
wire  basket,  lower  them  into  the  fat  slowly,  cook  until  golden  brown, 
drain  on  absorbent  paper,  and  keep  warm  until  all  are  prepared. 
Serve  on  a  hot  platter  garnished  with  parsley  and  strips  of  dill  pickle. 


♦ 


Panned  OySters 

1)4  quarts  oy^ers.  Salt  and  paprika. 

H  cup  butter.  Toa^. 
2  tablespoons  chopped  parsley. 

Dizain  off  the  liquor  from  the  oySters  and  look  them  over  carefully 
for  bits  of  shell.  Brown  the  fat  slightly  in  a  heavy  skillet,  add  the 
oy^ers  and  parsley,  and  cook  at  moderate  heat  for  about  5  minutes, 
or  until  the  edges  of  the  oy^ers  begin  to  curl.  Add  salt  if  needed. 
Serve  at  once  on  slices  of  crisp  toa^  on  a  hot  platter,  and  sprinkle 
Hghtly  with  paprika. 

Scalloped  OySters 

IK  quarts  oy^ers.  Salt. 
3  cups  dry  bread  crumbs.  Pepper. 
H  cup  melted  butter.  Milk. 

Drain  the  oysters  from  their  liquor  and  pick  out  any  pieces  of  shell. 
Mix  the  crumbs  and  melted  fat,  spread  a  thin  layer  of  the  crumbs  in 


RADIO     RECIPES  REVISED 


35 


the  bottom  of  a  greased  baking  dish,  cover  with  oy^ers,  season  with 
salt  and  pepper,  add  another  layer  of  crumbs,  and  continue  until  all 
the  oy^ers  are  used.  Pour  on  the  oyster  liquor  and,  if  needed,  milk  to 
moisten  thoroughly,  cover  the  top  with  the  remaining  crumbs,  bake 
m  a  moderate  oven  (350°  F.)  for  25  to  30  minutes,  and  serve  from  the 
dish.  Scalloped  oy^ers  are  particularly  good  cooked  in  ramekins  or 
large  scallop  shells. 

♦ 

Oy^ers  Scalloped  with  Rice 

3  cups  cooked  rice.  1  teaspoon  salt. 

1  quart  cyders.  '4  teaspoon  pepper. 

1  cup  chopped  celery.  1  cup  milk. 

2  tablespoons  melted  butter.  1  cup  buttered  bread  crumbs. 
2  tablespoons  flour. 

Place  alternate  layers  of  rice,  oy^ers,  and  celery  in  a  baking  dish. 
Pour  over  them  a  sauce  made  from  the  fat,  flour,  salt,  pepper,  and  milk, 
cover  the  top  with  the  buttered  crumbs,  and  bake  for  20  minutes  in  a 
moderate  oven  (350°  F.). 


Oy^er  Stew 

1  quart  milk.  Salt. 

1  quart  oysters.  Pepper. 

4  tablespoons  melted  butter.  Chopped  parsley. 

2  tablespoons  flour. 

Heat  the  milk  in  a  double  boiler.  Strain  the  oy^ers  from  their  liquor 
and  pick  out  any  small  pieces  of  shell  that  may  be  cHnging  to  them. 
Heat  the  oy^er  liquor  slightly  and  remove  the  scum  which  rises  to  the 
top.  Blend  the  fat  and  flour  and  ^ir  into  the  milk  until  thickened.  Add 
the  oy^ers  and  the  liquor  and  cook  for  5  or  10  minutes,  or  until  the 
edges  of  the  oy^ers  begin  to  curl.  Season  to  ta^e  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Serve  in  hot  soup  plates  with  finely  chopped  parsley  sprinkled  over 
the  top. 


Oy^er  and  Vegetable  Stew 

1  cup  chopped  raw  turnip.  4  tablespoons  butter. 

2  cups  shredded  raw  cabbage.  2  tablespoons  flour. 
1  onion,  chopped.  1  quart  oy^ers. 

1  cup  chopped  celery.  1  teaspoon  salt. 

1  cup  water. 

Cook  the  turnip,  cabbage,  onion,  and  celery  in  the  water  for  about  10 
minutes.  Add  the  fat  and  flour,  which  have  been  blended,  and  the 
oy^ers  and  salt,  and  cook  for  a  few  minutes  until  the  oy^ers  curl  at 
the  edges.  Serve  at  once  with  toasfted  bread  or  crackers  or  crisp  biscuits. 


36 


AUNT  SAMMY'S 


Salmon  Cutlets 


2  pounds  fresh  salmon  ^teak, 

1  inch  thick. 
1  egg. 

1  tablespoon  water. 


H  teaspoon  salt. 

2  cups  fine  bread  crumbs. 

Cooking  fat. 


Wipe  the  salmon,  remove  any  bones,  and  cut  in  serving  portions. 
Beat  up  the  egg,  water,  and  salt,  dip  the  fish  into  this  mixture,  roll  in 
the  crumbs,  and  place  on  a  board  to  dry  for  a  short  while.  Heat  the  fat 
in  a  skillet,  put  in  the  cutlets,  reduce  the  heat,  and  cook  slowly  for  10 
to  15  minutes,  until  the  fish  is  done  through  and  golden  brown  on  both 
-  sides,  :  Drain  on  absorbent  paper,  and  serve  garnished  with  lemon  and 
parsley. 

♦ 


Scalloped 

1  pound  can  salmon  (2  cups). 

2  tablespoons  butter. 
2  tablespoons  flours. 


Salmon 

l}4  cups  milk. 

5<  teaspoon  salt. 

1  cup  buttered  bread  crumbs. 


Break  the  salmon  into  pieces  and  remove  the  bones.  Prepare  a  sauce 
of  the  fat,  flour,  milk,  and  salt.  Place  a  layer  of  the  salmon  in  the  bottom 
of  a  greased  baking  dish,  add  some  of  the  sauce,  then  another  layer  of 
salmon,  and  so  on  until  all  the  ingredients  are  used.  Gover  the  top  with 
the  buttered  bread  crumbs  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  the  sauce 
bubbles  up  and  the  crumbs  are  brown. 


Salmon  and  Potato  Puff 


1  pound  can  salmon  (2  cups). 

2  tablespoons  butter. 

2  tablespoons  chopped  celery. 
2  tablespoons  chopped  parsley. 
2  cups  seasoned  mashed  potatoes. 


3  eggs. 

1  teaspoon  salt. 
1  teaspoon  minced  onion 
1  tablespoon  lemon  juice. 
Few  drops  tabasco  sauce. 


Drain  the  fish,  flake  it  with  a  fork,  and  remove  all  bones.  Melt  the  fat 
and  cook  the  celery  and  parsley  in  it  for  a  few  minutes.  Then  combine 
with  the  salmon,  mashed  potatoes,  and  seasonings,  add  the  beaten  egg 
yolks,  and  beat  the  mixture  until  very  light.  Fold  in  the  well-beaten 
whites  of  eggs,  pile  lightly  at  once  into  a  greased  baking  dish,  and  bake 
in  a  moderate  oven  (350°  F.)  for  1  hour,  or  until  set  in  the  center  and 
lightly  browned.  Serve  in  the  dish. 

If  salmon  and  potato  puff  is  baked  in  ramekins  or  custard  cups,  it  will 
be  especially  light  and  fluffy  and  attractive  for  serving  as  a  luncheon 
dish.  /  ~ 


RADIO     RECIPES  REVISED 


37 


Egg  and  Cheese  Dishes  ^ 


Ba\ed  Cheese  and  iSAacaroni  or  Spaghetti 

2  cups  macaroni  or  spaghetti  1  teaspoon  salt. 

broken  into  small  pieces.  H  pound  sharp-flavored  chee-sc, 
2  tablespoons  flour.  shaved  thin. 

4  tablespoons  butter  or  other  fat.  Few  drops  tabasco  sauce. 

2  cups  milk.  1  cup  buttered  bread  crumbs. 

Cook  the  macaroni  or  spaghetti  in  2  quarts  of  boiling  salted  water 
until  tender,  and  drain.  Make  a  sauce  with  the  flour,  fat,  milk,  and 
salt.  Take  it  from  the  stove,  add  the  cheese  and  tabasco  sauce,  and 
stir  until  the  cheese  is  melted.  Place  the  macaroni  or  spaghetti  in  a 
buttered  baking  dish  in  alternate  layers  with  the  cheese  sauce,  sprinkle 
the  buttered  bread  crumbs  over  the  top,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
(350°  F.)  for  about  30  minutes. 

♦ 

Ba}{ed  Eggs  and  Rice  in  Tomato  Sauce 

Vi  cup  uncooked  rice.  2  tablespoons  melted  butter 

1  pint  canned  tomatoes.  or  other  fat. 

%  teaspoon  salt.  2  tablespoons  flour. 

1  bay  leaf.  5  eggs. 

1  onion.  2  tablespoons  grated  cheese. 

4  cloves.  1  cup  buttered  bread  crumbs. 

Cook  the  rice  in  a  large  quantity  of  boiling  salted  water  for  20 
minutes,  or  until  tender,  wash  in  cold  water,  drain,  and  let  steam  and 
swell  over  hot  water.  Prepare  a  sauce  by  cooking  the  tomatoes  and 
seasonings  for  10  minutes,  strain,  and  thicken  with  the  blended  fat 
and  flour.  Make  a  layer  of  the  rice  in  a  shallow  greased  baking  dish, 
drop  the  raw  eggs  carefully  on  the  rice,  pour  on  the  sauce,  and  sprinkle 
over  the  top  the  grated  cheese  mixed  with  the  buttered  bread  crumbs. 
Bake  in  a  slow  oven  (about  275°  F.)  until  the  eggs  are  set.  Serve  in 
the  baking  dish. 


Cheese  Dreams 

Slice  bread  thin,  remove  the  cru^s,  and  without  buttering  make  into 
sandwiches  with  thin  even  slices  of  sharp-flavored  cheese  as  the  filling 
and  a  sprinkling  of  salt  and  a  drop  or  two  of  tabasco  sauce  for  season- 

*  Eggs  at  Any  Meal,  Leaflet  39,  U.  S.  Department  of  Agriculture,  gives  recipes  for  omelets  and  other 
standard  ways  of  cooking  eggs,  and  Farmers'  Bulletins  960  and  I45t  include  additional  recipes  for  cheese 
dishes. 


38 


AUNT  SAMMY'S 


ing.  In  a  heavy  skillet  melt  sufficient  butter  to  cover  the  bottom  and 
brown  the  sandwiches  delicately  and  rather  slowly  on  both  sides, 
adding  more  butter  if  necessary.  Take  care  that  the  butter  does  not 
become  so  hot  that  it  browns  the  sandwiches  before  the  bread  is 
heated  through  and  the  cheese  melted.  Serve  the  cheese  dreams  at 
once  with  a  salad  of  vegetables  or  of  sardines. 

♦ 


Cheese  Cu^ard 

3  cups  milk.  teaspoon  salt. 

1  tablespoon  flour.  3  eggs. 

J  2  pound  sharp-flavored  cheese,         5  drops  tabasco  sauce, 
shaved  thin. 

Heat  the  milk  in  a  double  boiler,  reserving  onC'haLf  cup  of  the  cold 
milk  to  mix  with  the  flour.  Stir  this  flour-and-milk  mixture  into  the 
hot  milk,  add  the  cheese  and  salt,  and  stir  until  the  cheese  has  melted. 
Beat  the  eggs  slightly,  pour  this  mixture  into  them,  and  add  the 
tabasco  sauce.  Fill  greased  cups  with  the  cu^ard,  place  in  a  pan  sur' 
rounded  by  water,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  (350°  F.)  until  set 
in  the  center  when  te^ed  with  the  point  of  a  knife.  Serve  hot  in 
the  cups. 

♦ 


Cheese  Toa^ 

1  pound  cheese.  4  drops  tabasco  sauce,  or  a  few 

1  cup  rich  milk  or  cream.  grains  of  cayenne  pepper. 

2  tablespoons  flour  mixed  with  A  little  onion  juice,  if  desired. 
2  tablespoons  water.  H  teaspoon  salt. 

2  eggs.  VA  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Shave  the  cheese  into  thin  small  pieces.  Heat  the  milk  or  cream  in  a 
double  boiler,  thicken  with  the  flour  which  has  been  mixed  with  the 
water,  and  cook  for  5minutes.  Add  the  beaten  eggs,  the  cheese,  and  the 
seasonings,  and  cook  slowly  until  the  cheese  has  melted  and  the  mixture 
is  thick  and  creamy.  Allow  it  to  cool;  then  add  the  baking  powder. 

Toast  one  side  of  the  bread.  Spread  the  cheese  mixture  thickly  on  the 
untoasted  side  to  the  very  edge.  If  the  cheese  mixture  does  not  come 
to  the  edges  of  the  bread,  they  become  brown  and  hard.  Brown  the 
cheese  delicately  under  a  low  flame  or  in  the  oven.  The  slow  heat 
allows  the  cheese  mixture  to  heat  through  before  it  browns,  gives  it  a 
chance  to  become  light,  and  keeps  the  cheese  tender  and  soft.  Too  great 
heat  makes  the  cheese  tough  and  ^ringy.  If  desired,  place  a  ^rip  of 
crisp  bacon  across  each  slice  of  cheese  toa^t.  Serve  it  hot  from  the  oven. 
This  recipe  makes  enough  for  12  to  14  slices  of  bread.  The  cheese  mix' 
ture  may  be  prepared,  except  for  the  baking  powder,  the  day  before  it 
is  to  be  used.  Since  the  mixture  ^iffens  on  landing,  heat  until  soft  in  a 
double  boiler,  let  it  cool,  and  add  the  baking  powder.  Then  spread  the 
cheese  on  the  toa^. 


RADIO 


RECIPES 


REVISED 


39 


Tomato  Rabbit 


2  tablespoons  butter  or  other  fat. 

cup  finely  cut  celery. 

green  pepper,  chopped. 
14  small  onion,  chopped. 
2  tablespoons  flour. 


1  pint  canned  tomatoes. 

J2  pound  cheese,  shaved  thin. 

1  teaspoon  salt. 

2  eggs. 

Tabasco  sauce. 


Melt  the  fat  in  a  heavy  skillet,  add  the  celery,  green  pepper,  and 
onion,  cook  for  a  few  minutes,  and  Stir  frequently.  Sprinkle  the  flour 
over  the  cooked  vegetables,  pour  in  the  tomatoes,  and  add  the  cheese 
and  salt.  Cook  over  low  heat  and  stir  until  the  mixture  thickens  and 
the  cheese  is  melted.  Pour  some  of  this  mixture  into  the  well'beaten 
eggs,  then  pour  all  back  into  the  skillet,  and  continue  to  cook  over  low 
heat  until  thickened  and  creamy.  Add  a  few  dashes  of  tabasco  sauce 
and  serve  on  crisp  toa^  or  crackers. 


Heat  the  milk  in  a  double  boiler.  Mix  the  melted  fat,  flour,  and  salt, 
and  ^ir  into  them  a  small  quantity  of  the  heated  milk.  Add  this  to  the 
remainder  of  the  milk,  ^ir  until  thickened,  add  the  cheese  and  a 
few  drops  of  each  of  the  seasonings,  and  beat  lightly  until  the  cheese 
has  melted.  Pour  a  little  of  the  cheese  mixture  into  the  well'beaten  egg, 
then  add  this  to  the  rabbit,  and  cook  for  2  or  3  minutes  longer.  Serve 
on  thin  crisp  toa^  or  crackers. 


♦ 


Welsh  Rabbit 


1  pint  milk. 

4  tablespoons  melted  butter  or 


1 2  pound  cheese,  shaved  thin. 

Tabasco  sauce. 

Onion  juice. 

Soy  sauce. 

legg. 


other  fat. 
4  tablespoons  flour. 
'A  teaspoon  salt. 


40 


AUNT  SAMMVS 


Vegetables 
♦ 

Globe  Artichokes 

Wash  the  artichokes  in  cold  water,  trim  off  the  ^ms,  and  remove  a 
few  of  the  outer  leaves.  Drop  the  artichokes  into  lightly  salted  boiling 
water  to  cover,  simmer  for  20  to  30  minutes,  or  until  the  central  part 
is  tender,  drain,  and  serve  with  drawn  butter  or  HoUandaise  sauce  in 
separate,  individual  dishes.  Pull  off  the  leaves,  one  by  one,  and  dip 
the  lower  part  into  the  sauce.  After  all  the  leaves  have  been  pulled 
off,  discard  the  flower  center  or  "choke,"  and  eat  the  bottom  which  is 
considered  by  many  the  choice^  part  of  all. 

♦ 

Jerusalem  A.rtic}io\es  en  Casserole 

Seledt  large  smooth  artichokes,  scrape  the  tubers,  and  drop  at  once 
into  cold  water  to  keep  them  from  turning  dark.  Drain,  pack  into  a 
casserole,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  dot  with  butter,  add  no  water, 
but  cover,  and  bake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven  for  45  to  60  minutes,  or 
until  the  artichokes  are  tender.  Serve  in  the  casserole. 

Asparagus  on  Toast 

Wash  asparagus  well,  scrape  off  the  little  scales  with  a  knife  to  remove 
all  sand,  and  trim  off  the  tough  lower  ends.  Leave  the  ^Iks  whole  or 
cut  into  2'inch  pieces.  Drop  into  a  small  quantity  of  lightly  salted 
boiling  water,  simmer  for  from  15  to  20  minutes,  drain,  and  arrange 
neatly  on  thin  slices  of  buttered  toa^.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper, 
pour  melted  butter  or  other  fat  over  the  top,  and  serve  at  once. 

♦ 

Asparagus  Timhales 

3  tablespoons  melted  butter.  }4  teaspoon  salt. 

3  tablespoons  flour.  Pepper. 

1  cup  milk.  3  eggs 

2  cups  canned  asparagus, 
chopped  fine. 

Prepare  a  sauce  of  the  fat,  flour,  and  milk.  Add  the  chopped  aspara' 

gus,  salt,  pepper,  and  well'beaten  eggs.  Pour  the  mixture  into  buttered 


RADIO     RECIPES  REVISED 


41 


timbale  molds,  set  in  a  pan  of  hot  water,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
(about  350°  F.)  for  20  minutes,  or  until  the  mixture  has  set.  Serve  in 
the  molds,  or  turn  out  on  a  hot  platter  and  garnish  with  parsley. 


♦ 


Scalloped  Asparagus  and  Spaghetti 

IH  cups  spaghetti  broken  in  small  2  tablespoons  melted  butter, 

pieces.  1  cup  rich  milk. 

1  pint  canned  or  cooked  asparagus  3  or  4  drops  tabasco  sauce, 
and  liquid.  Vi  teaspoon  salt. 

2  tablespoons  flour.  1  cup  buttered  bread  crumbs. 

Ckx)k  the  spaghetti  in  salted  boiling  water  for  20  minutes,  and  drain. 
Drain  the  liquid  from  the  asparagus  and  cut  the  stalks  in  short  pieces. 
Prepare  a  sauce  of  the  flour,  fat,  milk,  and  asparagus  water,  and  add 
the  tabasco  sauce  and  salt.  In  a  greased  baking  dish  put  a  layer  of 
the  cooked  spaghetti,  then  one  of  asparagus,  cover  with  the  sauce,  and 
continue  until  all  the  ingredients  are  used.  Cover  the  top  with  the 
buttered  bread  crumbs.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  about  20  minutes, 
or  until  the  crumbs  are  golden  brown. 


Boston  Ba\ed  Beans 

2  cups  dried  beans,  1  teaspoon  mustard,  if  desired 

)^  pound  salt  pork.  1J4  teaspoons  salt  (depending  on 

4  tablespoons  molasses.  saltiness  of  pork). 


Soak  the  beans  overnight  in  cold  water  to  cover.  In  the  morning 
drain,  add  a  quart  of  fresh  water,  simmer  for  45  minutes,  or  until  the 
beans  begin  to  soften,  and  drain.  Score  the  rind  of  the  salt  pork  and 
put  half  of  the  pork  in  the  bottom  of  the  bean  pot.  Add  the  beans, 
mix  the  molasses  and  other  seasonings  with  a  Uttle  hot  water,  and 
pour  over  the  beans.  Add  enough  hot  water  to  cover.  Place  the  re^ 
of  the  salt  pork  on  top,  cover  the  pot,  and  cook  the  beans  in  a  slow 
oven  (about  250°  F.)  for  6  or  7  hours.  Add  a  little  hot  water  from 
time  to  time  to  replace  that  which  cooks  away  and  is  absorbed  by  the 
beans.  Keep  the  lid  on  the  bean  pot  until  the  last  hour  of  cooking, 
then  uncover,  and  allow  the  beans  and  pork  on  the  top  to  brown.  - 


♦ 


Scalloped  Kidney  Beans 

2  cups  dried  kidney  beans.  1  onion. 

1  quart  water.  2  cups  tomato  juice. 

1  cup  diced  salt  pork.  \4  teaspoon  salt. 


Wash  the  beans,  cover  with  water,  and  soak  overnight.  In  the 
morning  discard  the  water,  cook  them  in  L  quart  of  salted  water  until 


42 


AUNT  SAMMY'S 


tender  but  not  broken,  and  drain.  Brown  the  onion  with  the  salt 
pork  in  a  skillet,  add  the  beans,  tomato  juice,  and  salt.  Heat  to  the 
boiling  point  and  pour  into  a  shallow  baking  dish.  Cook  in  the  oven 
about  45  minutes,  or  until  the  tomato  has  thickened.  Serve  from  the 
baking  dish. 


Lima  Beans  in  Tomato  Sauce 

2  cups  dried  lima  beans.  1  large  onion,  sliced. 

2  quarts  water.  2  tablespoons  flour. 

2  cups  canned  tomatoes.  Salt. 

8  whole  cloves.  Pepper. 

;  2  pound  sliced  bacon.  Tabasco  sauce. 

Wash  the  beans  and  soak  them  overnight  in  water  to  cover.  In  the 
morning  pour  off  this  water,  cook  in  2  quarts  of  lightly  salted  water 
for  about  onchalf  hour,  or  until  tender  but  not  broken,  and  drain. 
Sraimer  the  tomatoes  with  the  cloves  for  10  minutes  and  strain  ofF  the 
juice.  Cook  the  bacon  in  a  skillet  until  crisp,  remove  from  the  fat, 
drain  on  absorbent  paper,  and  keep  warm.  Brown  the  onion  in  the 
bacon  fat,  ^ir  in  the  flour  until  well  blended,  add  the  tomato  juice 
and  beans,  and  cook  until  the  sauce  thickens.  Season  to  ta^e  with  salt, 
pepper,  and  tabasco  sauce,  and  serve  with  the  strips  of  bacon  over 
the  top. 


^uic\^Coo\ed  String  Beans 

Wash  the  beans,  remove  tips  and  brings,  cut  into  small  pieces,  or  if 
very  young  and  tender,  leave  whole.  Drop  the  beans  in  a  small  quan' 
tity  of  boiling  salted  water,  leave  uncovered,  and  cook  for  from  15  to 
30  minutes.  As  soon  as  the  beans  are  tender,  drain,  season  with  more 
salt  if  needed,  pepper,  and  melted  butter,  cream,  or  other  fat. 


♦ 


Scalloped  String  Beans 

Drain  the  liquid  from  canned  or  cooked  ^ring  beans,  and  put  them  in 
a  shallow  greased  baking  dish.  Cover  with  tom.ato  sauce,  sprinkle  with 
buttered  bread  crumbs  mixed  with  grated  cheese,  and  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  (350°  F.)  until  the  sauce  bubbles  and  the  crumbs  are  brown. 


RADIO 


RECIPES 


REVISED 


43 


Shredded  String  Beans  and  Fresh  Por\ 

2  tablespoons  butter  or  meat  1  teaspoon  salt. 

drippings.  1  pint  shredded  cooked  pork. 

1  quart  shredded  ^ring  beans. 

Melt  the  fat  in  a  heavy  skillet,  add  the  beans  and  salt,  cover,  and 
cook  for  20  to  25  minutes,  turning  the  beans  frequently.  Add  the  pork, 
^ir  until  well  mixed  with  the  beans,  and  cook  for  about  5  minutes 
longer,  until  the  meat  is  thoroughly  heated.  Serve  on  buttered  toa^. 
The  beans  should  be  young  and  tender  when  this  method  of  cooking 
IS  used. 

♦ 

Harvard  Beets 

6  medium-sized  beets.  H  teaspoon  salt. 

14  cup  sugar.  \4  cup  vinegar. 

1  tablespoon  corn^rch.  2  tablespoons  butter. 

Wash  the  beets,  cook  them  in  boiling  water  until  tender,  remove  the 
skins,  and  cut  the  beets  into  thin  slices  or  cubes.  Mix  the  sugar,  corn' 
^arch,  and  salt,  add  the  vinegar,  let  the  sauce  boil  for  5  minutes,  birring 
constantly.  Add  the  fat,  pour  the  sauce  over  the  beets,  and  let  ^and 
for  a  few  minutes  to  absorb  the  sweet'sour  flavor  of  the  sauce. 

♦ 

Broccoli 

Trim  off  and  discard  the  leaves  and  tough  lower  portion  of  the  ^alks 
of  broccoli.  Thoroughly  wash  the  remaining  center  ^alks  with  flower 
heads  attached,  and  cut  lengthwise  into  ^rips.  Drop  into  lightly  salted 
boiling  water,  leave  the  kettle  uncovered,  and  cook  for  15  to  25  min- 
utes. As  soon  as  the  broccoli  is  tender  and  while  the  color  is  ^ill  fresh 
green,  drain,  season  with  salt  and  pepper  to  ta^e,  and  add  melted 
butter  or  other  fat,  or  serve  with  Hollandaise  sauce. 

♦ 

Brussels  Sprouts 

Trim  off  the  imperfect  leaves  and  drop  the  brussels  sprouts  into  cold 
water  for  10  or  15  minutes.  Cook  in  lightly  salted  boiling  water  in  an 
uncovered  pan  for  about  20  minutes,  or  until  tender.  Drain  and  season 
with  melted  butter,  salt,  and  pepper.  Or  cook  large  che^nuts,  shell  and 
combine  with  the  drained  brussels  sprouts,  and  season  with  browned 
butter. 

3936?°— 31  4 


44  AUNT  SAMMY'S 


5'Mmute  Cahhage 

2  cups  milk.  3  tablespoons  melted  butter. 

quarts  shredded  cabbage.  Salt. 
1  cup  cream  or  rich  milk.  Pepper. 

3  tablespoons  flour. 

Heat  the  milk  and  cook  the  cabbage  in  it  for  2  minutes.  Add  the  cup 
of  cream  or  rich  milk,  the  blended  flour  and  fat,  and  the  seasonings,  cook 
rapidly  for  3  or  4  minutes,  and  ^ir  con^ntly.  The  cabbage  retains  its 
crispness  and  is  delicate  in  flavor  and  color. 


Cahhage  Slaw 

Seled:  a  hard  head  of  cabbage,  cut  in  quarters,  and  wash  thoroughly 
in  cold  water.  Drain,  shred,  and  set  aside  in  a  cold  place  until  crisp. 
Pour  hot  dressing  over  the  crisp  cabbage  and  ^ir  until  well  mixed. 
Serve  hot  or  cold. 

'One  cup  chopped  celery,  or  one-half  cup  of  finely  shredded  green 
pepper;  or  1  cup  of  thinly  sliced  tart  apple  may  be  added. 

DRESSING  FOR  CABBAGE  SLAW 

2  eggs.  14  teaspoon  salt. 

H  cup  water.  H  teaspoon  mustard. 

14  cup  vinegar.  Me  teaspoon  celery  seed. 

2  tablespoons  sugar.  2  tablespoons  butter  or  other  fat. 

Beat  the  eggs,  add  all  the  ingredients  except  the  fat,  and  cook  in  a 
double  boiler  until  thickened.  Stir  con^ntly  and  ju^  before  removing 
from  the  fire  add  the  fat.  Pour  over  the  cabbage  while  hot.  If  served 
as  cold  slaw,  chill  after  the  dressing  is  added.  : 


Scalloped  Cahhage  and  Apples 

2  quarts  shredded  cabbage.  2  to  4  tablespoons  butter  or 

1  quart  tart  sliced  apples.  other  fat. 

2  teaspoons  salt.  1  cup  buttered  bread  crumbs. 
1  teaspoon  sugar. 

In  a  greased  baking  dish  place  alternate  layers  of  the  cabbage  and 
apples,  seasoning  each  with  salt  and  fat  and  sprinkling  the  sugar  on  the 
apples.  Over  the  la^  layer  spread  the  buttered  crumbs.  Cover,  and 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  45  minutes,  or  until  the  cabbage  and  apples 
are  tender.  Toward  the  last  remove  the  cover  so  the  crumbs  can  brown. 
Serve  in  the  baking  dish. 


RADIO 


RECIPES 


REVISED 


45 


Scalloped  Cabbage,  Spaghetti,  and  Cheese 

1  }4  cups  spaghetti  broken  in  small  1  teaspoon  salt. 

pieces.  H  pound  American  cheese. 

3  tablespoons  flour.  1  quart  shredded  cabbage. 

3  tablespoons  butter  or  other  fat.  1  cup  buttered  bread  crumbs. 

2  cups  milk. 

Cook  the  spaghetti  in  boiling  salted  water  for  20  minutes,  and 
drain.  Make  a  sauce  of  the  flour,  fat,  milk,  and  salt.  Shave  up  the 
cheese,  add  to  the  hot  sauce,  and  stir  until  melted.  Put  the  cabbage, 
spaghetti,  and  sauce  in  a  buttered  baking  dish  in  layers  and  cover  the 
top  with  the  buttered  bread  crumbs.  Bake  for  20  to  30  minutes  in  a 
moderate  oven. 

♦ 

Carrots  in  Parsley  Butter 

8  or  10  medium'sized  carrots.  2  tablespoons  lemon  juice. 

)^  teaspoon  salt.  1  tablespoon  finely  chopped 

i  H  Cup  butter.  parsley. 

Wash  and  scrape  the  carrots  and  cut  them  in  sHces  or  dice.  Cook 
in  a  small  quantity  of  boiling  salted  water  for  10  or  15  minutes,  or 
until  tender,  drain,  add  the  butter,  lemon  juice,  and  parsley,  and 
serve  at  once. 


Is/lashed  Carrots 

8  to  10  mediuffl'sized  carrots.  2  to  4  tablespoons  butter. 

Cream  or  fich  milk.  H  teaspoon  salt. 

Wash  and  scrape  the  carrots,  cut  in  small  pieces,  and  cook  in  a  small 
amount  of  boiling  salted  water.  When  the  carrots  are  tender,  press 
them  through  a  potato  ricer.  Add  enough  cream  or  top  milk  to  make 
a  creamy  consi^ency,  and  the  seasoning,  reheat,  and  serve. 

♦ 

Fried  Carrots  and  Apples 

6  medium'sized  carrots.  1  tablespoon  sugar. 

,6  tart  apples.  J4  teaspoon  salt. 

2  tablespoons  fat. 

Scrape  the  carrots  and  cut  them  lengthwise  into  thin  slices.  Pare 
the  apples  or  leave  the  skin  on,  as  preferred,  core,  and  cut  into  slices 
about  a  fourth  of  an  inch  thick.  Place  a  single  layer  of  the  apples  and 
the  carrots  in  a  large  skillet  with  the  fat,  cover  tightly,  and  cook  until 
well  browned,  turn,  and  brown  the  other  side.  Just  before  the  cook- 
ing is  finished,  sprinkle  with  the  sugar  and  salt.  Serve  on  a  hot 
platter,  first  a  layer  of  carrots,  then  a  layer  of  apples,  so  the  two  can 
be  lifted  together. 


46 


AUNT  SAMMY'S 


Cauliflower  au  Gratin 

1  medium'sized  cauliflower.  a  teaspoon  salt. 

2  tablespoons  flour.  %  cup  grated  cheese. 

2  tablespoons  butter  or  other  fat.         1  cup  buttered  bread  crumbs. 
1  cup  milk. 

Seledt  a  close  white  head  of  cauHflower.  Remove  the  green  leaves,  and 
retain  the  mo^  tender  ones  to  cook  with  the  cauliflower.  Break  the  head 
into  flowerlets,  and  wash  thoroughly  in  cold  water.  Drop  the  cauH' 
flower  into  enough  lightly  salted  boiling  water  to  cover,  leave  the  pan 
uncovered,  and  cook  for  about  15  minutes,  or  until  tender,  and  drain. 
Prepare  a  sauce  of  the  flour,  fat,  milk,  and  salt.  Add  the  cheese  and  ^r 
until  melted.  Place  the  cauliflower  in  a  greased  baking  dish,  pour  over 
it  the  sauce,  cover  with  the  bread  crumbs,  bake  for  about  20  minutes 
in  a  moderate  oven,  or  until  the  crumbs  are  golden  brown,  and  serve 
from  the  dish. 


Braised  Celery 

1^2  quarts  celery  cut  into  pieces.  3  tablespoons  flour. 

3  tablespoons  drippings  and  juice  cups  cold  water, 

from  roa^t  meat  or  fowl.  Salt  and  pepper. 

Put  the  cut  celery  into  a  shallow  baking  dish .  Melt  the  meat  drippings 
in  a  skillet,  add  the  flour,  ^ir  until  well  blended,  and  then  gradually  add 
the  water  and  continue  to  ^ir  until  smooth.  Add  salt  and  pepper  to 
ta^e  and  pour  this  hot  gravy  over  the  celery,  or  use  an  equal  quantity 
of  left'over  slightly  thickened  gravy  or  meat  broth.  Cover  the  dish  and 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  45  minutes,  or  until  the  celery  is  tender. 
During  the  la^  15  minutes  remove  the  cover  from  the  dish,  so  that  the 
gravy  cooks  down  and  browns  slightly.  Serve  in  the  baking  dish. 

This  is  an  excellent  way  to  use  the  outer  ^alks  of  celery  less  attractive 
for  serving  raw  and  also  to  make  use  of  left'Over  gravy  or  meat  drippings. 

♦ 


Creamed  Celery 

Clean  the  celery,  and  cut  into  pieces  about  threc'fourths  inch  long. 
Cook  in  a  small  quantity  of  boiling  salted  water  for  15  to  20  minutes, 
or  until  tender.  Drain  and  combine  with  white  sauce  made  in  the 
proportion  of  2  tablespoons  flour  and  2  tablespoons  butter  to  1  cup 
milk.  Season  and  serve  at  once.  A  few  of  the  tender  leaves  of  the  celery 
may  be  minced  and  scattered  over  the  top  to  make  the  dish  look  at' 
tractive.  The  tougher  ^alks  of  celery  from  several  bunches  may  be 
used  in  this  way  and  the  hearts  served  raw. 


RADIO     RECIPES  REVISED 


47 


Celery  Fritters 

IH  cups  sifted  soft-wheat  flour.        1  cup  milk. 

H  teaspoon  salt.  2  cups  chopped  celery. 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder.  1  tablespoon  melted  fat. 

1  egg- 
Sift  together  the  flour,  salt,  and  baking  powder,  add  the  beaten  egg, 
milk,  celery,  and  fat.  Fry  the  celery  fritters  in  deep  fat  or,  if  preferred, 
m  a  skillet  in  shallow  fat.  In  either  case  drop  the  mixture  by  spoonfuls 
into  the  fat  and  fry  rather  slowly.  The  fritters  need  time  to  cook  through 
to  the  center  before  the  outside  becomes  too  brown.  Drain  the  fritters 
on  absorbent  paper  and  serve  hot. 


Swiss  Chard 

Seledl  fresh  crisp  chard;  if  at  all  wilted,  crisp  it  by  allowing  it  to  stand 
in  cold  water  for  10  or  15  minutes.  Strip  the  leaves  from  the  stalks,  and 
cut  the  stalks  into  inch  pieces.  Cook  for  about  20  minutes  in  unsalted 
boiHng  water  in  an  uncovered  pan.  Add  the  leaves  to  the  ^alks  and 
continue  the  cooking  until  all  are  tender,  about  10  minutes  longer. 
Drain,  season  with  melted  butter  or  other  fat,  salt,  and  pepper,  and 
serve  hot  with  lemon  or  vinegar. 


Corn  Fritters 

\H  cups  sifted  soft- wheat  flour.  1  egg. 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder.  1  cup  drained  canned  corn. 

H  teaspoon  salt.  1  tablespoon  melted  fat. 

1  cup  liquid,  either  juice  from  canned 
corn  or  milk,  or  the  two  mixed. 

Mix  the  flour,  baking  powder,  and  salt.  Mix  the  juice  from  the  canned 
corn, or  milk,  or  whatever  liquid  is  used,  the  egg  after  it  has  been  beaten 
slightly,  and  the  canned  corn.  Stir  this  liquid  mixture  gradually  into 
the  dry  ingredients.  Add  the  melted  fat.  If  the  corn  is  very  moi^t, 
even  after  the  liquid  has  been  drained  from  it,  more  flour  may  be  needed. 
Dried  corn  which  has  been  soaked  and  cooked  until  tender  may  also  be 
used. 

Fry  the  corn  fritters  in  deep  fat  or,  if  preferred,  in  a  skillet  in  shallow 
fat.  In  either  case  drop  the  mixture  by  spoonfuls  into  the  fat  and  fry 
rather  slowly.  The  fritters  need  time  to  cook  through  to  the  center 
before  the  outside  becomes  too  brown.  Drain  the  fritters  on  absorbent 
paper  and  serve  hot. 


48 


AUNT  SAMMY'S 


Corn  Pudding 


3  eggs.  1  teaspoon  salt. 

2  cups  fresh  or  canned  corn,  or  dried  Pepper. 

corn  soaked  and  cooked.  2  cups  milk. 
2  tablespoons  melted  butter. 


Beat  the  eggs,  add  all  the  other  ingredients,  and  more  salt  if  necessary. 
Pour  into  a  greased  baking  dish,  place  in  a  pan  of  hot  water,  and  bake 
in  a  moderate  oven  (350°  F.)  for  about  1  hour,  or  until  set  in  the  center. 
Corn  canned  Maine  ^yle — that  is,  with  the  grain  scored  and  the  pulp 
scraped  out — is  especially  good  for  use  in  this  kind  of  a  dish. 

Corn  Rabbit 

2  tablespoons  butter  or  other  fat.  M  teaspoon  salt. 

1  tablespoon  chopped  green  pepper.  }4  pound  cheese,  shaved  thin. 

1  small  onion,  chopped.  Few  drops  tabasco  sauce. 

2  cups  canned  corn,  crushed  grains.  Toa^  or  crackers. 

Melt  the  fat,  add  the  pepper  and  onion,  and  cook  slowly  for  a  few 
minutes.  Add  the  corn  and  salt  and  sirmner  for  10  minutes.  Remove 
from  the  fire,  beat  in  the  cheese  until  melted,  and  add  the  tabasco. 
Pour  over  the  toa^  or  crackers  and  serve  at  once.  Tomato  pulp  or 
catsup  may  be  added. 

Ba}{ed  Cucuwhers 

4  large  cucumbers.  1  cup  bread  crumbs. 

2  tablespoons  chopped  onion.  1  cup  tomato  pulp.      ,     ,  , 

2  tablespoons  chopped  parsley.  1  teaspoon  salt. 

4  tablespoons  butter  or  other  fat.  Pepper. 

Wash  and  pare  the  cucumbers  and  cut  them  in  half  lengthwise. 
Scoop  out  as  much  of  the  seed  portion  as  possible  without  breaking 
the  fleshy  part,  parboil  the  cucumber  shells  in  lightly  salted  water  for 
10  minutes,  and  drain.  Meanwhile  cook  the  onion  and  parsley  in  the 
fat,  add  the  other  ingredients  and  the  cucumber  pulp,  and  cook  this 
mixture  for  5  minutes.  Fill  the  cucumber  shells  with  the  hot  buffing, 
place  in  a  shallow  baking  dish,  add  a  little  water  to  keep  them  from 
kicking,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  15  minutes,  or  until  the 
buffing  has  browned  on  top.  Serve  in  the  baking  dish. 

Fried  Cucumbers 

4  medium'siz;ed  cucumbers.  H  teaspoon  salt. 

1  egg.  1  cup  flour. 

1  cup  milk. 

Pare  the  cucumbers  and  cut  them  lengthwise  in  thin  slices.  Beat 
the  egg  slightly,  add  the  milk  and  salt,  pour  this  liquid  into  the  flour, 
and  ^ir  until  smooth.  Dip  the  slices  of  cucumber  into  this  batter  and 
brown  them  on  both  sides  in  hot  fat.  Drain  on  paper  and  serve  hot. 


RADIO 


RECIPES 


REVISED 


49 


Wilted  Dandelion  Greens 

2  quarts  dandelion  greens.  14  cup  mild  vinegar. 

4  tablespoons  bacon  fat.  1  teaspoon  salt. 

Wash  the  greens  thoroughly,  and  cut  into  small  pieces  with  scissors. 
Heat  the  bacon  fat,  vinegar,  and  salt  in  a  skillet,  add  the  greens,  cover, 
and  cook  at  moderate  heat  until  the  greens  are  wilted.  Serve  at  once. 


Scalloped  Eggplant 

1  large  eggplant.  2  teaspoons  salt. 

4  tablespoons  butter  or  other  fat.  Pepper. 
1  green  pepper,  chopped.  1  cup  bread  crumbs. 

1  small  onion,  chopped. 
1  quart  canned  or  chopped  raw 
tomatoes. 

Pare  the  eggplant  and  cut  it  into  small,  even  pieces.  Melt  2  table' 
spoons  of  the  fat  in  a  skillet,  add  the  green  pepper  and  onion,  and  cook 
for  a  few  minutes.  Add  the  tomatoes,  eggplant,  salt,  and  pepper, 
cook  for  10  minutes,  and  place  the  mixture  in  a  shallow  greased  baking 
dish.  Melt  the  remaining  fat  in  a  skillet,  ^ir  in  the  bread  crumbs,  and 
sprinkle  the  crumbs  over  the  eggplant.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for 
15  minutes,  or  until  the  eggplant  is  tender  and  the  crumbs  are  browned. 


Stuffed  Eggplant 

1  large  eggplant.  1  cup  cooked  ^ring  beans,  peas, 

4  tablespoons  melted  butter  or  or  other  left'over  vegetable. 

other  fat.  1  teaspoon  salt. 

1 H  cups  bread  crumbs.  Pepper. 
1  small  onion,  finely  chopped. 

Wash  and  cut  the  eggplant  in  half  lengthwise.  Remove  as  much  of 
the  white  portion  as  possible  without  breaking  the  shell,  cut  the  pulp 
into  small  pieces,  cook  in  a  small  quantity  of  hot  water  for  10  minutes, 
or  until  tender,  and  drain.  To  the  melted  fat  add  the  bread  crumbs, 
^ir  until  well  mixed,  and  reserve  half  of  the  crumbs  for  the  top.  To 
the  remaining  crumbs  add  the  other  ingredients  and  the  eggplant 
pulp,  mix  thoroughly,  pile  Hghtly  into  the  eggplant  shells,  sprinkle  the 
top  with  crumbs,  place  in  a  shallow  baking  dish,  pour  a  few  table- 
spoons of  hot  water  around  the  shells  to  keep  them  from  kicking,  and 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  30  minutes.  Serve  in  the  baking  dish. 


50 


AUNT  SAMMY'S 


Savory  Mixed  Greens 

Combine  two  or  more  kinds  of  greens,  such  as  beet  and  turnip  tops, 
field  cress  and  spinach,  corn  salad  and  mu^ard  greens,  to  give  a  blend 
of  mild  and  pungent  flavors.  Wash  the  greens  through  several  waters, 
and  cook  quickly  in  an  uncovered  kettle  in  a  small  quantity  of  lightly 
salted  boiling  water.  As  soon  as  the  greens  are  tender,  drain,  and  chop. 
Season  with  bacon  fat  and  sprinkle  over  the  top  a  little  crisp  cooked 
bacon  broken  into  small  pieces.  Or  cook  a  little  chopped  onion  in  butter 
until  both  butter  and  onion  brown  slightly,  mix  with  the  chopped 
greens,  and  add  salt  and  pepper  to  ta^e. 


Panned  Kale 

Strip  the  kale  from  the  midribs  and  discard  them  and  the  ^ringy  por^ 
tions.  Wash  the  kale  thoroughly  in  several  waters,  drain,  and  cut  it 
into  small  pieces.  For  each  quart  of  kale  allow  2  tablespoons  butter 
or  other  fat.  Melt  the  fat  in  a  skillet,  add  the  kale,  cover  to  keep  in  the 
^eam,  and  cook  slowly  for  15  to  20  minutes.  Sift  a  teaspoon  of  flour 
over  the  kale,  mix  well,  pour  in  onchalf  cup  of  cream  or  milk,  and  ^ir 
until  thickened.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  serve  at  once. 

♦ 

Kohlrabi 

Trim  off  the  leaves,  pare  the  kohlrabi,  and  slice  crosswise.  Cook  in 
lightly  salted  boiling  water  for  about  20  minutes  in  an  uncovered  pan, 
drain,  season  with  melted  butter  or  cream  and  salt  and  pepper  to  ta^e. 


Savory  Lentils 

2  cups  dried  lentils.  1  large  onion,  chopped  fine. 

1  quart  cold  water.  }4  cup  olive  oil  or  bacon  fat. 

2  teaspoons  salt.  Few  drops  tabasco  sauce. 

Pick  over  the  lentils,  wash  them  thoroughly,  add  the  water,  and  soak 
overnight.  If  the  water  is  dark  and  strong'flavored  in  the  morning,  dis' 
card  it  and  add  a  quart  of  fresh  water  and  the  salt.  Simmer  the  lentils 
in  a  covered  pan  from  30  to  40  minutes,  or  until  tender  but  not  broken. 
Drain  the  lentils,  and  return  1  cup  of  the  liquid  to  them,  or  if  necessary 
add  enough  water  to  the  liquid  to  make  1  cup.  Cook  the  onion  for  a 
few  minutes  in  the  olive  oil  or  bacon  fat,  add  the  lentils,  cook  for 
about  15  minutes,  and  ^ir  gently  so  that  the  lentils  are  not  broken. 
Add  a  few  drops  of  tabasco  and  more  salt  if  needed.  Serve  hot. 


RADIO     RECIPES  REVISED 


51 


Braised  Lettuce 

2  large  hard  heads  iceberg  lettuce.  Salt. 

4  tablespoons  bacon  fat.  Pepper. 

Cut  each  head  of  lettuce  into  four  pieces,  taking  care  that  a  portion 
of  the  center  ^tem  is  left  on  each  section  to  hold  the  leaves  together, 
Heat  the  fat  in  a  large  skillet,  put  in  the  lettuce,  cover,  and  cook  for  30 
minutes,  or  until  the  lettuce  is  tender.  If  much  liquid  is  drawn  out  of 
the  lettuce,  discard  some  of  it  during  cooking.  Turn  carefully  if  neces' 
sary.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper  and  serve  on  a  hot  platter. 

♦ 

Savory  Coohed  Lettuce 

6  slices  bacon.  Salt. 

3  quarts  shredded  lettuce.  Onion  juice. 
2  tablespoons  vinegar. 

Cook  the  bacon  in  a  heavy  skillet  until  brown  and  crisp,  and  remove 
It  from  the  fat.  Add  the  shredded  lettuce  to  the  hot  fat  and  ^ir  until 
It  wilts.  Add  the  vinegar  and  bacon  broken  in  small  pieces,  salt  if 
needed,  and  onion  juice  if  desired.  Serve  at  once. 


Broiled  Mushrooms 

Wash  the  mushrooms,  skin  the  caps,  and  remove  the  ^ems.  Place  the 
caps  gill  side  down  under  the  flame  of  the  broiling  oven  for  two  or 
three  minutes,  turn,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  place  a  small 
piece  of  butter  in  each  cap.  Broil  under  the  flame  for  a  few  minutes 
longer.  Lift  carefully  from  the  broiler  so  that  the  juices  are  not  lo^, 
and  serve  on  buttered  toa^. 


Creamed  Mushrooms 

1  pound  mushrooms.  1  cup  rich  milk  or  cream. 
Flour.  Salt. 

2  tablespoons  butter.  Pepper. 

Wash  the  mushrooms,  skin  the  caps,  and  cut  the  mushrooms  in  half  or 
into  several  pieces  if  they  are  large,  slicing  down  through  cap  and  stem. 
Lightly  flour  the  sliced  mushrooms.  Melt  the  fat  in  a  heavy  skillet,  add 
the  floured  mushrooms,  and  brown  delicately  over  moderate  heat.  As 
liquid  cooks  out  of  the  mushrooms,  pour  it  off  and  save  it  to  add  later. 
When  the  mushrooms  are  well  browned,  pour  in  the  milk  or  cream,  add 
the  mushroom  liquor,  salt,  and  pepper,  and  ^ir  until  the  sauce  is  the 
right  consi^ency.  Serve  on  slices  of  crisp  todSt. 


52 


AUNT  SAMMY'S 


Stuffed  Ts/lushrooms 

1  pound  large  mushrooms  (12  to  14).        2  teaspoons  onion  juice. 
4  tablespoons  butter  or  other  fat.  Pepper. 

%  cup  chopped  celery.  1  teaspoon  salt. 

2  cups  fine  bread  crumbs.  1  tablespoon  chopped  parsley. 

:  Wash  the  mushrooms  well,  skin  them,  remove  the  ^ems  close  to  the 
caps,  and  chop  the  ^ems  fine.  In  a  skillet  melt  2  tablespoons  of  the  fat, 
add  the  chopped  mushroom  ^ems  and  celery,  cook  for  5  minutes,  and 
^ir  in  the  bread  crumbs  and  seasonings.  Turn  the  mushroom  caps  gill 
side  up,  and  fill  them  with  mounds  of  the  buffing.  Place  the  buffed 
mushrooms  in  a  shallow  pan,  pour  around  them  the  re^  of  the  melted 
fat,  cover  closely,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  (350°  F.)  for  30  to  45 
minutes.  Toward  the  la^  remove  the  cover  and  let  the  crumbs  brown 
hghtly  on  top,  or  set  the  pan  of  mushrooms  under  the  flame  of  the 
broiling  oven  for  a  few  minutes  to  brown.  Serve  on  rounds  of  buttered 
toa^t.  , 

♦ 

Fried  0}{ra 

2  quarts  okra.  Salt  to  ta^le. 

4  tablespoons  fat. 

Seled:  young  okra,  wash  it  well,  dry  thoroughly,  and  cut  crosswise  in 
pieces  about  one'half  inch  thick.  Heat  the  fat  in  a  heavy  skillet,  add 
the  okra,  cover,  cook  for  10  minutes,  and  ^ir  frequently  to  prevent 
burning.  Remove  the  cover,  continue  to  cook  until  the  okra  is  tender 
and  hghtly  brown,  and  serve  at  once. 


Stuffed  Onions 

5  large  mild  onions.  2  cups  bread  crumbs. 

3  tablespoons  butter  or  other  fat.  1  teaspoon  salt. 

3-2  cup  chopped  celery.  Pepper. 
2  tablespoons  chopped  parsley. 

Skin  the  onions,  cut  in  half  crosswise,  simmer  in  salted  water  until 
almost  tender,  and  drain.  Remove  the  centers  without  di^urbing  the 
outer  layers  and  chop^  fine.  Melt  2  tablespoons  of  the  fat  in  a  skillet, 
add  the  chopped  onion,  celery,  parsley,  and  cook  for  a  few  minutes. 
Push  the  vegetables  to  one  side,  melt  the  remaining  fat  and  add  to  it  the 
bread  crumbs,  salt,  and  pepper,  then  combine  with  the  vegetables.  Fill 
the  onion  shells  with  the  stuffing,  cover,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
for  about  30  minutes,  or  until  the  onions  are  tender.  Remove  the  cover 
from  the  baking  dish  during  the  last  of  the  cooking  so  the  onions  will 
brown  on  top. 


RADIO     RECIPES  REVISED 


53 


Ba}{ed  Onions  in  Tomato  Sauce 

6  medium'sizcd  onions.  2  tablespoons  flour. 

1  quart  canned  tomatoes.  2  tablespoons  melted  butter 

1  bay  leaf.  or  other  fat. 
K  teaspoon  celery  seed.  2  teaspoons  salt. 

2  cloves.  Dash  of  pepper. 

Skin  the  onions,  cut  in  half,  simmer  in  lightly  salted  water  for  10 
minutes,  drain,  and  put  in  a  large  baking  dish.  Cook  the  tomatoes 
with  the  bay  leaf,  celery  seed,  and  cloves  for  10  minutes,  and  ^rain. 
Blend  the  flour  and  melted  fat,  add  to  the  tomato  juice  with  the  salt 
and  pepper,  and  mix  well.  Pour  over  the  onions,  cover  and  cook  until 
ithe  onions  are  tender,  about  1  hour.  Serve  from  the  baking  dish. 


Onions  Fried  in  Deep  Fat 

6  or  8  medium-sized  onions.  1  egg. 

1  cup  flour.  14  teaspoon  salt. 

1  cup  milk.  Cooking  fat. 

Skin  the  onions,  slice  very  thin,  separate  into  rings,  dip  into  a  batter 
made  from  the  flour,  milk,  egg,  and  salt,  and  drain  well.  Have  ready  a 
kettle  of  fat  hot  enough  to  brown  a  small  piece  of  bread  in  60  seconds. 
Put  the  onions  in  a  wire  basket,  lower  into  the  hot  fat,  fry  until  the 
onions  are  golden  brown,  remove,  drain  on  absorbent  paper,  sprinkle 
;with  salt,  and  keep  hot  until  served.  Onions  fried  in  this  way  will  gen- 
erally  keep  crisp  for  several  days,  or  may  be  reheated  in  the  same  way  as 
potato  chips. 

♦ 

Spring  Onions  on  Toast 

Allow  six  or  seven  finger-sized  onions  for  each  serving.  Trim  off  the 
green  tops,  cook  the  onions  until  tender  in  lightly  salted  boiling  water 
in  an  uncovered  vessel.  This  will  take  only  about  20  minutes  for  fresh, 
young  onions.  When  they  have  cooked  tender,  drain,  add  more  salt  if 
needed,  and  season  with  melted  butter.  In  the  meantime  toa^  slices 
of  bread.  Arrange  the  onions  in  the  same  way  as  asparagus  on  toa^, 
and  serve  at  once. 

♦ 

Fried  Onions  and  Apples 

3  tablespoons  fat.  14  teaspoon  salt. 

1  quart  sliced  tart  apples.  1  tablespoon  sugar. 

1  pint  sliced  onions. 

Melt  the  fat  in  a  heavy  skillet,  add  the  apples  and  onions,  cover,  cook 
slowly  until  nearly  tender,  and  ^ir  frequently  to  prevent  scorching. 
Remove  the  cover,  sprinkle  the  salt  and  sugar  over  the  apples  and 
onions,  and  continue  the  cooking  until  they  are  lightly  browned.  Serve 
at  once. 


54 


AUNT  SAMMY'S 


Scalloped  Onions  and  Peanuts 

6  medium-sized  onions.  1  tablespoon  flour. 

1  cup  peanuts,  ground.  1  cup  milk. 

1  tablespoon  melted  butter  teaspoon  salt, 

or  other  fat.  1  cup  buttered  bread  crumbs. 

Skin  the  onions,  cook  in  boiling  salted  water  until  tender,  drain,  and 
slice.  Make  a  sauce  of  the  fat,  flour,  milk,  and  salt.  In  a  greased  baking 
dish  place  a  layer  of  the  onions,  cover  with  the  peanuts  and  sauce,  and 
continue  until  all  are  used.  Cover  the  top  with  buttered  crumbs  and 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  about  20  minutes,  or  until  the  crumbs  are 
golden  brown.  Serve  from  the  baking  dish 


Browned  Parsnips 

Scrub  parsnips  clean,  drop  into  lightly  salted,  boiling  water,  and  cook 
for  20  to  30  minutes,  or  until  tender.  Drain,  scrape  off  the  skin,  split 
lengthwise,  and  pull  out  the  ^ringy  cores.  Dip  the  pieces  in  flour  and 
fry  in  fat  until  golden  brown.  Or  mash  the  parsnips  after  the  cores 
have  been  removed,  season,  and  form  into  small  cakes  before  frying. 


Scalloped  Parsnips 

6  or  7  medium'sized  parsnips.  1  cup  rich  milk  or  cream. 

3  tablespoons  butter.  M  teaspoon  salt. 

2  tablespoons  flour.  1  cup  buttered  bread  crumbs. 

Scrub  the  parsnips  clean,  cook  for  20  to  30  minutes,  or  until  tender,  in 
lightly  salted  boiling  water,  and  drain.  Scrape  off  the  outer  skin,  split  the 
parsnips  lengthwise,  and  pull  out  the  ^ringy  cores.  Place  the  parsnips 
in  a  shallow  baking  dish,  and  cover  with  a  sauce  made  with  the  fat, 
flour,  and  milk  or  cream,  and  salt.  Cover  the  top  with  the  bread 
crumbs  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  about  20  minutes,  or  until  the 
parsnips  are  thoroughly  heated  and  the  buttered  crumbs  are  golden, 
brown.  Serve  in  the  baking  dish. 

♦ 

Fresh  Green  Peas 

Shell,  wash,  and  drain  green  peas  ju^  before  cooking,  drop  into  a 
small  quantity  of  lightly  salted  boiling  water,  and  simmer  (do  not  boil) 
for  15  to  20  minutes,  or  until  tender.  Serve  the  small  quantity  of 
water  left  with  the  peas,  and  add  butter,  salt  and  pepper. 


RADIO 


RECIPES 


REVISED 


55 


Stuffed  Peppers 

6  green  peppers.  1  small  onion,  chopped  fine. 

2  cups  flaky  cooked  rice,  or  bread  ]4  teaspoon  salt,  or  to  ta^e. 

crumbs.  J<  to  H  cup  chili  sauce,  catsup, 
2  tablespoons  butter  or  other  fat.  or  meat  gravy. 

2  cups  ground  cooked  meat.  1  cup  buttered  bread  crumbs. 

Cut  off  the  stem  ends  of  the  peppers,  remove  the  seeds,  boil  the 
pepper  shells  for  5  minutes  in  lightly  salted  water,  and  drain.  Stuff 
the  peppers  with  a  mixture  made  from  the  other  ingredients,  cover 
with  the  buttered  crumbs,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  about  30 
minutes,  or  until  the  peppers  are  tender  and  the  crumbs  are  brown. 


Potatoes  au  Gratin 

1 M  cups  milk.  ]4  pound  cheese,  grated. 

2  tablespoons  flour.  4  cups  cooked  diced  potatoes. 

2  tablespoons  butter  or  other  fat.  1  cup  buttered  bread  crumbs. 

1  teaspoon  salt. 

Prepare  a  sauce  with  the  milk,  flour,  fat,  and  salt.  Add  the  cheese, 
and  ^ir  until  melted.  In  a  shallow  greased  baking  dish  place  the  pota' 
toes,  pour  the  cheese  sauce  over  them,  and  cover  the  top  wi<"h  the 
buttered  bread  crumbs.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  20  to  30  minutes, 
or  until  the  crumbs  are  golden  brown  and  the  potatoes  are  thoroughly 
heated.  Serve  from  the  baking  dish. 


Potatoes  in  Tomato  Sauce 

1  quart  potatoes,  sliced.  3  cups  strained  tomato  juice. 

1  onion,  sliced.  2  teaspoons  salt. 

4  tablespoons  butter  or  other  fat.  Pepper. 

Cook  the  potatoes  and  onion  in  the  fat  for  20  minutes,  add  the  tomato 
juice,  salt,  and  pepper,  cover,  and  simmer  for  30  minutes,  or  until  the 
potatoes  are  tender.  The  potato  thickens  the  tomato  juice  so  that  no 
other  thickening  is  necessary. 

♦ 

Ba}{ed  Potatoes 

Select  good  baking  potatoes  of  uniform  size  and  shape,  scrub  thor' 
oughly,  and  bake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven  (375°  F.)  for  45  to  60 
minutes,  or  until  soft  when  pressed.  Take  the  potatoes  from  the  oven 
at  once,  work  gently  with  the  fingers  to  loosen  the  skin,  make  a  short 
gash  to  allow  the  steam  to  escape,  season  with  butter,  salt,  and  a  dash 
of  paprika,  and  serve  at  once. 


56  .i:::AUNT  SAMMY'S 


For  baked  potatoes  in  the  half  shell,  cut  the  potatoes  lengthwise  as 
soon  as  they  are  taken  from  the  oven,  scrape  out  the  inside,  being  care- 
ful not  to  break  the  skin,  mash,  season  with  salt,  pepper,  butter,  and 
cream  or  rich  milk,  and  beat  until  light.  Place  this  mixture  in  the  skins, 
brush  the  tops  with  melted  butter,  and  put  the  potatoes  in  the  oven 
to  reheat  and  brown.  For  variety,  sprinkle  grated  cheese  over  the 
potatoes  before  they  are  browned  or  add  a  Httle  chopped  green  pepper 
to  the  potato  mixture. 

•    .  French  Fried  Potatoes 

Pare  and  cut  potatoes  lengthwise  into  strips  about  one-half  inch  thick, 
rinse  in  cold  water,  and  soak  for  2  or  3  hours  to  remove  as  much  starch 
as  possible.  Remove  from  the  water,  and  pat  with  a  clean  dry  cloth. 
Heat  a  kettle  of  deep  fat  hot  enough  to  brown  a  small  piece  of  bread 
in  60  seconds  (about  375°  F.).  Fry  about  a  cupful  of  potatoes  at  a  time, 
remove  from  the  fat  when  golden  brown,  drain  on  absorbent  paper,  and 
sprinkle  with  salt.  Serve  at  once  while  hot  and  crisp. 

^  ... 
Hashed  Brown  Potdtoes 

■-  4  cups  finely  chopped  potatoes.  2  tablespoons  fat. 

2  tablespoons  chopped  onion.  'A  cup  hot  water.  , 

M  teaspoon  salt.  Parsley. 
Vs  teaspoon  pepper. 

Combine  the  potatoes  and  onions,  salt,  and  pepper.  Melt  the  fat  in  a 
smooth  heavy  skillet,  add  the  water,  put  the  potatoes  in  a  thin  even 
layer,  and  cook  slowly  until  a  golden  brown  crust  is  formed.  Fold  the 
potatoes  over  like  an  omelet,  turn  out  on  a  hot  platter,  garnish  with 
parsley,  and  serve  at  once. 

■ 

Scalloped  Potatoes 

6  medium-sized  potatoes.  1  teaspoon  salt. 

2  tablespoons  flour,  1  pint  hot  milk. 

6  tablespoons  butter.  2  tablespoons  chopped  parsley. 

Wash  the  potatoes,  cook  in  boiling  salted  water  until  half  done,  skin, 
and  slice  or  cut  in  cubes.  Grease  a  shallow  baking  dish,  place  in  it  a 
layer  of  potatoes,  sprinkle  with  some  of  the  flour  and  salt,  and  dot  with 
fat.  Continue  until  all  the  potatoes  are  used.  Pour  in  the  hot  milk, 
cover,  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven  for  i  hour,  or  until  the  potatoes  are 
brown  on  top  and  soft  throughout.  If  they  become  dry  add  more  milk. 
Serve  the  potatoes  in  the  baking  dish,  and  just  before  it  is  sent  to  the 
table  sprinkle  the  chopped  patsley  over  the  top. 


I 


RADIO     RECIPES  REVISED 


57 


Sweetpotato  Puff 

5  or  6  medium-sized  sweetpotatoes.         2  tablespoons  melted  butter. 
2  eggs.  2  tablespoons  hot  milk. 

1  teaspoon  salt. 

Boil  the  sweetpotatoes.  When  tender  remove  the  skins  and  any  dis' 
colored  portions,  and  press  the  sweetpotatoes  through  a  ricer.  There 
should  be  about  1  quart  of  the  pulp.  Beat  the  yolks  and  whites  of  the 
eggs  separately.  To  the  sweetpotato  add  the  yolks,  fat,  milk,  and  salt, 
beat  well,  and  fold  in  the  well'beaten  whites.  Pile  the  mixture  lightly 
into  a  greased  baking  dish  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  (350°  F.)  for 
45  minutes,  or  until  light  and  fluffy  and  brown  on  the  top. 

♦ 

Candied  Sweetpotatoes 

6  medium'SiKd  sweetpotatoes  H  teaspoon  salt. 

1  cup  corn  sirup.  4  tablespoons  butter. 

'  ■  cup  sugar. 

Partially  cook  the  sweetpotatoes  in  boiling  water,  cool,  and  skin.  Cut 
the  sweetpotatoes  in  halves  lengthwise,  or  in  three  pieces  if  the  sweet- 
potatoes are  large.  Put  in  a  greased  baking  dish  large  enough  for  just 
one  layer,  not  packing  too  closely.  Make  a  sirup  by  boiling  the  corn 
sirup,  sugar,  salt,  and  fat  until  fairly  thick.  Pour  the  sirup  over  the 
sweetpotatoes  and  bake  in  a  very  moderate  oven  for  1  hour  or  more. 
Turn  the  sweetpotatoes  carefully  as  they  are  cooking. 

♦ 

Scalloped  Sweetpotatoes  with  Apples 

3  medium-sized  sweetpotatoes.  H  cup  sugar. 

4  medium-sized  apples,  pared  H  teaspoon  salt, 
and  cored.                                       3  tablespoons  butter. 

Cook  the  sweetpotatoes  in  boiling  water  until  tender;  cool,  and  skin. 
Cut  the  sweetpotatoes  and  apples  into  slices,  place  in  alternate  layers 
in  a  greased  baking  dish,  sprinkle  each  layer  with  sugar  and  salt,  dot 
with  butter,  add  a  Httle  water,  and  bake  for  30  to  45  minutes,  or  until 
the  apples  are  soft  and  the  top  layer  is  brown.  Serve  in  the  baking  dish. 


Scalloped  Sweetpotatoes  and  Pineapple 

3  medium-sized  sweetpotatoes.  H  teaspoon  salt. 

1  can  crushed  pineapple.  4  tablespoons  melted  butter. 

Seledt  a  dry  mealy  variety  of  sweetpotatoes  and  cook  in  the  skins  in 
water  to  cover.  When  tender,  scrape,  cut  in  slices  of  uniform  thickness, 
and  place  in  a  shallow  greased  baking  dish.  Pour  the  pineapple  over 


58 


AUNT  SAMMY'S 


the  sweetpotatoes,  sprinkle  with  salt,  and  add  the  fat.  Bake  in  a  mod' 
erate  oven  for  30  minutes,  or  until  light  brown  on  the  surface  and  the 
sirup  of  the  pineapple  has  become  thickened.  Serve  from  the  baking 
dish. 

♦ 

Boiled  Rice 

For  each  cup  of  rice  allow  3  quarts  of  boiling  water  and  2  teaspoons 
salt.  Wash  the  rice  until  the  water  is  clear,  drop  it  slowly  into  boiling 
salted  water,  and  boil  gently  for  20  minutes,  or  until  tender  when 
pressed  with  thumb  and  forefinger.  If  the  rice  tends  to  ^ick  to  the 
kettle,  lift  the  grains  with  a  fork  from  time  to  time  but  do  not  ^ir.  As 
soon  as  the  grains  are  tender,  remove  from  the  fire,  add  cold  water,  pour 
off  at  once,  add  more  cold  water,  and  pour  off  until  all  of  the  starchy 
liquid  has  been  washed  out  of  the  rice.  Then  drain  the  rice  in  a  col- 
ander, cover,  and  place  over  ^eam  until  the  grains  heat  through,  turn 
into  a  hot  serving  dish,  and  add  melted  butter  and  a  few  dashes  of 
paprika. 

♦ 

Spanish  Rice 

pound  bacon.  2  cups  cooked  rice. 

3  onions,  sliced.  1  teaspoon  salt. 

2  green  peppers,  sliced.  Pepper. 

3  cups  fresh  or  canned  tomatoes. 

Fry  the  bacon  in  a  skillet  until  crisp,  remove  it  from  the  fat,  and  break 
it  into  small  pieces.  Cook  the  onions  and  green  pepper  in  the  fat  for  5 
minutes,  add  the  tomatoes  and  simmer  for  10  minutes,  ^ir  in  the  cooked 
rice  carefully  so  as  not  to  break  the  grains,  add  the  bits  of  bacon,  and 
when  heated  through,  serve  at  once. 


Creamed  Salsify 

2  bunches  salsify,  or  oyster  plant.  1  cup  milk. 

2  tablespoons  melted  butter  or  teaspoon  salt. 

other  fat.  Pepper. 

2  tablespoons  flour.  1  tablespoon  chopped  parsley. 

Wash  the  salsify,  scrape,  cut  into  small  pieces,  and  drop  into  cold 
water  to  prevent  it  from  turning  dark.  Boil  in  an  uncovered  pan  in  a 
small  quantity  of  unsalted  water  for  30  minutes,  or  until  tender,  and 
drain.  Prepare  a  sauce  of  the  fat,  flour,  milk,  salt,  and  pepper,  pour 
this  over  the  cooked  salsify,  reheat,  and  serve  with  the  chopped 
parsley  sprinkled  over  the  top. 


RADIO 


RECIPES 


REVISED 


59 


Savory  Sauer\raut 

14  cup  butter  or  other  fat.  }4  teaspoon  celery  or  caraway  seed. 

1  quart  sauerkraut. 

Heat  the  fat  in  a  skillet  until  golden  brown,  and  add  the  sauerkraut 
and  the  seasoning.  Mix  well  using  a  fork  to  separate  the  kraut.  Cover 
and  cook  for  5  minutes.  Serve  hot. 


Spinach 

Carefully  pick  over  the  spinach,  discard  wilted  leaves,  cut  off  the 
stem  ends,  and  wash  in  several  waters  to  remove  grit.  If  the  spinach 
is  young  and  tender,  it  can  be  cooked  in  the  water  that  clings  to  the 
leaves.  Start  the  cooking  at  moderate  heat,  cover  the  kettle  at  first, 
turn  the  spinach  now  and  then  until  thoroughly  wilted,  then  remove 
the  cover,  and  stir  frequently.  Cook  about  10  to  15  minutes  (a 
quantity  of  2  pounds),  chop  fine,  season  with  pepper,  salt,  and  butter 
or  other  fat,  and  serve.  Spinach  cooked  in  this  way  will  retain  its 
attradlive  green  color  and  fresh  flavor. 

Older  spinach  is  better  if  cooked  in  a  small  quantity  of  water  for 
about  20  minutes,  then  drained,  chopped,  and  seasoned  with  butter 
or  other  fat,  pepper,  and  salt.  To  vary  the  flavor,  brown  a  small 
quantity  of  finely  cut  onion  in  the  fat  before  adding  it  to  the  spinach, 
or  season  with  vinegar  and  bits  of  crisped  salt  pork  or  bacon,  or  serve 
with  olive  oil  and  sedlions  of  lemon.  Sliced  or  chopped  hard'Cooked 
egg  is  of  course  always  attractive  served  on  spinach. 

♦ 

Spinach  in  Cream 

2  pounds  spinach.  1  cup  cream. 

2  tablespoons  butter.  H  teaspoon  salt. 

Wash  the  spinach  thoroughly  in  running  water  until  free  from  grit. 
Press  the  spinach  into  a  saucepan,  add  a  very  small  quantity  of  water, 
or  cover  the  pan  and  cook  the  spinach  in  the  water  which  clings  to 
the  leaves.  Cook  for  about  10  minutes,  or  until  wilted,  and  ^ir  the 
spinach  occasionally  so  that  it  cooks  evenly.  Drain  and  chop  the 
spinach  very  fine.  Melt  the  fat  in  a  saucepan,  add  the  cream  and  salt, 
and  when  hot  add  the  chopped  spinach,  but  no  liquid,  and  simmer 
for  a  few  minutes  longer.  Add  more  salt  if  needed,  and  serve  at  once. 

39363°— 31  5 


60 


AUNT  SAMMY'S 


Panned  Summer  Squash 

IH  quarts  diced  summer  squash.  1)^  teaspoons  salt. 

3  tablespoons  butter  or  other  fat.  %  teaspoon  pepper. 

Seled:  young  tender  squash,  wash  well,  and  remove  the  tips  from 
each  end.  Cut  the  squash  into  small  pieces,  leaving  the  skin  on  unless 
it  is  very  tough.  Melt  the  fat  in  a  skillet  until  slightly  brown,  put  in 
the  squash,  sprinkle  with  the  salt  and  pepper,  cover,  and  cook  for  10 
or  15  minutes  at  moderate  heat.  Remove  the  cover  and  cook  a  little 
longer  for  the  liquid  to  evaporate.  Serve  hot. 


Ba\ed  Winter  Squash 

Seledt  a  medium'si7,ed  squash,  wash  well,  cut  in  pieces  about  3  inches 
square,  and  remove  the  seeds  and  ^ringy  portion.  Put  in  a  greased 
shallow  pan,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  pour  melted  butter  or  other 
fat  over  the  top,  cover,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  1  hour,  or  until 
the  squash  is  tender.  Serve  hot. 


Succotash 

1  pint  shelled  Uma  beans.  cup  cream  or  rich  milk. 

4  ears  corn,  or  2  cups  corn  cut  2  tablespoons  butter  or  other  fat. 

from  the  cob.  -  Salt. 

Sinomer  the  beans  in  a  small  quantity  of  lightly  salted  water  until 
almo^  tender.  In  the  meantime  use  a  sharp  knife  to  trim  off  the  tops  of 
the  corn  kernels  and  scrape  out  the  pulp  with  the  back  of  the  knife. 
Mix  the  corn  with  the  beans,  add  the  cream  or  milk  and  cook  for  10 
minutes,  until  there  is  no  starchy  flavor  in  the  corn.  Add  the  fat  and 
enough  salt  to  season,  and  serve. 

Left 'Over  corn  and  cooked  beans  may  be  combined  in  the  same  way 
with  the  cream  or  milk,  and  seasoning,  and  heated  to  the  boihng  point 
before  serving. 


Tomato  Cocktail 

1  quart  canned  tomatoes.  1  teaspoon  onion  pulp. 

2  stalks  celery,  chopped.  1  teaspoon  horseradish. 

}4  green  pepper,  chopped.  2  tablespoons  tomato  catsup. 

1J4  teaspoons  salt. 


Boil  the  tomatoes,  celery,  pepper,  and  salt  for  about  5  minutes,  and 
rub  through  a  sieve  fine  enough  to  keep  back  the  seeds.  To  the  tomato 


RADIO     RECIPES  REVISED 


61 


juice  and  pulp  add  the  catsup,  onion,  and  horseradish,  stir  well,  and 
put  in  a  cold  place  to  chill.  Beat  before  serving,  pour  into  small  glasses, 
and  use  as  the  first  course  at  dinner  or  a  luncheon. 


♦ 


Ba\ed  Tomatoes 

Wash  tomatoes,  remove  the  stem  ends,  cut  in  half,  place  in  a  shallow 
greased  baking  dish,  cover  with  buttered  bread  crumbs  seasoned  with 
salt  and  pepper.  Add  a  Httle  water  to  keep  the  tomatoes  from  kicking 
to  the  dish.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  30  minutes,  or  until  the  tomatoes 
are  tender  and  the  crumbs  brown. 


♦ 


Ba}{ed  Stuffed  Tomatoes 


6  large  firm  tomatoes. 
6  ^rips  bacon. 

2  tablespoons  chopped  parsley. 
1  tablespoon  chopped  onion. 
1  cup  dry  bread  crumbs. 


14  teaspoon  celery  seed. 

H  teaspoon  salt. 

Vs  teaspoon  pepper. 

1  cup  buttered  bread  crumbs. 


Wash  the  tomatoes,  remove  a  thin  sHce  from  the  ^em  end,  and  care 
fully  scoop  out  the  pulp  so  that  the  tomato  shells  will  not  be  broken. 
Fry  the  bacon  until  crisp,  remove  from  the  pan,  and  break  the  bacon 
into  small  pieces.  Add  the  parsley  and  onion  to  the  fat,  cook  for  a  few 
minutes,  add  the  cup  of  dry  bread  crumbs,  celery  seed,  salt,  pepper, 
crisped  bacon,  and  tomato  pulp.  Stir  until  well  mixed  and  add  more 
salt  if  necessary.  Fill  the  tomato  cups  with  this  mixture,  cover  the  top 
with  the  buttered  crumbs,  place  in  a  shallow  baking  dish,  and  bake  in 
a  moderate  oven  for  45  to  60  minutes,  or  until  the  tomatoes  are  tender 
and  the  crumbs  are  brown.  Serve  from  the  baking  dish. 


♦ 


Broiled  Tomatoes 

Wash  tomatoes,  remove  the  stem  ends,  cut  in  half,  put  in  a  greased 
shallow  baking  dish,  add  salt,  pepper,  and  melted  butter  or  other  fat  to 
season,  and  place  under  the  flame  of  a  broiUng  oven,  far  enough  from 
the  heat  to  allow  the  tomatoes  to  cook  before  browning.  Broil  for  20 
to  30  minutes,  or  until  tender  and  lightly  browned.  Serve  hot  gar' 
nished  with  parsley  on  crisp  buttered  toa^. 


62 


AUNT  SAMMY'S 


Fried  Tomatoes 

6  or  8  firm  tomatoes.  Finely  sifted  bread  crumbs. 

1  egg.  Salt  and  pepper. 

1  tablespoon  cold  water.  1  tablespoon  chopped  parsley. 

Wash  the  tomatoes,  remove  a  thin  piece  from  the  ^em  end,  and  cut 
the  tomatoes  into  slices  about  one'half  inch  thick.  Beat  the  egg  sHghtly, 
add  water,  dip  the  tomatoes  in  this,  and  roll  in  the  bread  crumbs, 
which  have  been  seasoned  to  ta^e  with  salt  and  pepper.  Allow  the 
coated  tomatoes  to  dry  out  somewhat  before  frying.  Heat  fat  in  a 
heavy  skillet,  place  the  coated  tomatoes  in  the  hot  fat,  brown  on  one 
side,  then  turn  carefully,  and  reduce  the  temperature  so  that  the 
tomatoes  will  have  sufficient  time  to  cook  before  browning.  Lift  from 
the  skillet  to  a  hot  platter,  garnish  with  chopped  parsley,  and  serve  at 
once. 


Stewed  Tomatoes  and  Celery 

1  quart  canned  tomatoes.  Vs  teaspoon  pepper. 

2  cups  cut  celery.  2  tablespoons  butter  or  other  fat. 
IJ^  teaspoons  salt. 

Simmer  the  tomatoes  and  the  celery  together  for  20  to  25  minutes,  or 
until  the  celery  is  tender.  Season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  fat  and  serve. 
This  is  an  excellent  way  to  use  the  outer  ^alks  of  celery  that  are  less 
desirable  for  serving  raw. 


Tomato,  Corn,  and  Cheese  on  Toa^ 

3  tablespoons  flour.  1  onion,  sliced. 

3  tablespoons  melted  butter  or  2  cups  canned  corn. 

other  fat.  2  teaspoons  salt. 

2  cups  canned  tomatoes.  J<  pound  sharp  cheese,  shaved  thin. 

Brown  the  flour  in  a  heavy  skillet,  remove  the  flour  from  the  skillet 
and  blend  with  2  tablespoons  of  the  fat.  Brown  the  onion  in  the 
remaining  fat,  add  the  other  ingredients  except  the  cheese,  and  cook 
for  about  10  minutes.  Stir  in  the  cheese  and  when  melted  serve  on 
thin  crisp  toaA. 


Mashed  Turnips 

Pare  the  turnips  and  cut  in  thin  slices.  Cook  in  salted  water  in  an 
uncovered  kettle  for  about  20  minutes,  or  until  tender.  Drain,  press 
through  a  colander,  season  with  cream  or  butter,  and  more  salt  if 
needed.  Serve  at  once  with  a  sprinkling  of  paprika  over  the  top. 


RADIO     RECIPES  REVISED 


63 


Turnijp  or  Carrot  Custard 

3  eggs.  .  3  cups  milk. 

1 cups  grated  raw  turnip  1  teaspoon  salt, 

or  mashed  cooked  turnip.  3  tablespoons  melted  butter. 

Beat  the  eggs  slightly,  add  the  turnip  and  other  ingredients,  pour  into 
a  greased  baking  dish,  place  on  a  rack  in  a  pan  of  hot  water,  and  bake  in 
a  moderate  oven  for  about  1  hour,  or  until  the  custard  is  set  in  the  center. 
Serve  at  once.  Carrots  may  be  used  in  the  same  way  as  the  turnips. 

♦ 

Vegetable  Curry 

Vi  cup  rice.  4  tablespoons  butter  or  other  fat. 

1  cup  diced  onion.  Yi  teaspoon  salt. 

■  1  cup  diced  carrots.  teaspoon  curry  powder. 

1  cup  diced  celery.  2  teaspoons  Worcestershire  sauce. 
1  cup  fresh  or  canned  peas. 

Wash  the  rice  and  cook  in  2  quarts  of  boiling  salted  water.  Drain  in  a 
colander,  pour  cold  water  through,  and  let  ^tand  over  ^eam  until  the 
grains  swell  and  become  separate.  Cook  the  vegetables  in  a  small  quan' 
tity  of  water  and  ju^  before  removing  from  the  ^ove  add  the  canned 
peas,  or  if  fresh  peas  are  available,  cook  them  with  the  other  vegetables. 
Use  the  Hquid  from  the  vegetables  and  add  the  fat,  salt,  curry,  and 
sauce.  On  a  hot  platter  make  a  ring  of  the  cooked  rice,  pile  the  vegeta' 
bles  in  the  center,  pour  over  them  the  liquid  mixture,  and  serve  very  hot. 


Vegetable  Loaj 

3  tablespoons  melted  butter  or  Yi  cup  chopped  nuts. 

other  fat.  4  tablespoons  liquid  from  cooked 

2  cups  soft  bread  crumbs.  vegetables. 
1  cup  chopped  cooked  celery.  2  eggs,  beaten. 

1  cup  diced  cooked  carrots.  1  teaspoon  salt. 

1  cup  cooked  or  canned  peas.  Pepper. 

or  string  beans. 

Mix  the  fat  with  the  bread  crumbs,  and  reserve  about  one-fourth  cup 
for  the  outside  of  the  loaf.  Mix  together  all  the  ingredients,  form  into 
a  loaf  on  a  sheet  of  greased  paper,  cover  the  surface  with  the  crumbs, 
place  on  a  rack  in  an  uncovered  pan,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  30 
minutes.  The  loaf  should  then  be  hot  through  and  the  crumbs  golden 
brown.  Serve  with  tomato  sauce. 


Vegetables  au  Gratin 

Mix  two  or  more  kinds  of  fresh-cooked  or  left-over  vegetables  such  as 
string  beans,  carrots,  and  turnips  or  cauliflower,  and  place  in  a  shallow 
baking  dish.  Pour  over  the  vegetables  thin  white  sauce  to  which  cheese 
has  been  added.  Cover  with  buttered  bread  crumbs  and  bake  in  a  mod- 
erate oven  until  the  sauce  bubbles  and  the  crumbs  are  brown. 


64 


AUNT  SAMMY'S 


Salads  and  Salad  Dressings 


♦ 


Apple  Salads 


1.  Seledt  medium'si2;ed,  firm,  tart  apples,  pare,  and  core.  Cook  in  a 
covered  pan  in  sirup  made  in  the  proportion  of  2  cups  water  and  1  cup 
sugar.  Use  enough  sirup  to  cover  the  apples.  Red  cinnamon  candies 
added  to  the  sirup  give  the  apples  an  attractive  rose  color.  After 
cooking,  drain  the  apples,  chill,  and  fill  with  cottage  or  cream  cheese 
which  has  been  mixed  with  salt,  paprika,  and  a  little  finely  chopped 
green  pepper.  Or  form  the  cheese  into  balls,  roll  in  ground  nuts,  and 
place  beside  the  apples.  Serve  on  lettuce  with  mayonnaise  or  French 
dressing. 

2.  Combine  diced  tart  apples  and  chopped  celery  with  chopped  nuts 
(walnuts,  hickory  nuts,  pecans,  or  boiled  chestnuts),  and  add  enough 
mayonnaise  or  cream  dressing  to  moi^en.  Serve  on  crisp  lettuce  or 
other  salad  greens. 

3.  Combine  diced  apples  with  seedless  grapes  or  malagas  or  tokays, 
which  have  been  halved  and  seeded.  Serve  on  lettuce  with  mayonnaise 
or  French  dressing. 


Arrange  stalks  of  chilled  fresh  cooked  or  canned  asparagus  on  lettuce 
leaves,  place  ^rips  of  red  pimiento  over  the  asparagus,  and  serve  with 
salad  dressing. 


Cahbage  Salad  with  Whipped  Cream  Dressing 


Put  the  shredded  cabbage  in  a  cold  place  to  become  crisp.  Whip 
the  cream,  add  the  seasonings,  and  combine  with  the  cabbage  just 
before  serving.  If  allowed  to  ^and  after  mixing,  the  juices  are  drawn 
from  the  cabbage  and  the  dressing  becomes  too  thin.  Serve  the  salad 
very  cold.  This  is  very  attractive  served  in  a  hoUowed'Out  head  of 
red  or  curly  green  cabbage. 


♦ 


Asparagus  Salad 


3  cups  shredded  green  cabbage. 
%  pint  double  cream. 

4  tablespoons  lemon  juice. 
12  drops  tabasco  sauce. 


1}4  teaspoons  salt. 
1  teaspoon  sugar. 
Scraped  onion. 

3  tablespoons  ground  horseradish. 


RADIO 


RECIPES 


REVISED 


65 


Cabbage  and  Carrot  Salad 

Use  equal  parts  of  grated  raw  carrots  and  finely  shredded  cabbage. 
Mix  the  carrots  and  cabbage  together  with  salad  dressing  until  well 
blended.  Add  ground  peanuts  if  desired.  Serve  on  crisp  lettuce. 

♦ 

Cabbage  and  Onion  Salad 

Shred  the  cabbage  and  cut  the  onions  into  very  thin  rings.  Season 
with  salt,  celery  salt,  pepper,  and  paprika.  Mix  with  mayonnaise  or 
French  dressing  and  serve  on  a  cabbage  leaf. 

♦ 

Stuffed  Celery 

Cut  the  celery  into  pieces  convenient  for  handling.  Fill  the  hollow 
of  the  celery  stalks  with  soft  cheese  plain  or  mixed  with  chopped 
pimiento,  green  pepper,  nuts,  ohves,  or  a  combination  of  two  or  more 
of  these.  Serve  on  the  plate  with  another  salad  or  as  a  relish. 

♦ 

Cheese  Salads 

Peaches,  pears,  or  cherries  combine  well  with  cream,  Neufchatel,  or 
other  soft  cheese.  Fill  the  hollows  of  canned  peaches  or  pears  with 
the  cheese,  plain  or  mixed  with  nuts,  dried  fruits,  or  one  of  the  chopped 
salad  vegetables.  Serve  on  lettuce  with  salad  dressing. 

Make  a  little  mound  of  the  cheese  on  the  lettuce  and  put  slices  of 
peaches  or  pears  around  it.  Large  white  canned  cherries  with  the  pits 
removed  or  stewed  dried  apricots  may  also  be  combined  with  the 
cheese. 

♦ 

Cottage  Cheese  and  Tomato  Salad 

On  individual  salad  plates,  arrange  crisp  lettuce.  In  the  center  make 
a  mound  of  cottage  cheese,  which  has  been  mixed  with  cream,  salt,  and 
pepper,  place  tomato  in  slices  or  quarters  around  the  edge,  and  serve 
with  salad  dressing. 

♦ 

Frozen  Cream  Cheese  and  Fruit  Salad 

2  Neufchatel  or  cream  cheeses.  H  teaspoon  vanilla. 

M  cup  milk.  i4  teaspoon  salt. 

IJi  cups  powdered  sugar.  1  cup  double  cream. 

H  cup  chopped  canned  pineapple, 

preserved  cherries,  dates,  figs,  or 

raisins. 


Break  up  the  cheese  and  mix  with  the  milk.  Add  the  sugar,  salt, 
chopped  fruit,  and  vanilla,  and  mix  thoroughly.  Whip  the  cream  until 


66  AUNT  SAMMY'S 


it  is  ^ifF  and  fold  in  the  cheese  mixture.  Pour  into  a  mold,  pack  in 
crushed  ice  and  salt,  and  let  ^and  for  3  or  4  hours  to  freeze.  Pound 
baking'powder  tins  lined  with  tough  white  paper  make  suitable  molds. 
Serve  the  frozen  cheese  in  slices  with  cream  salad  dressing  on  crisp 
lettuce. 

♦ 


Chichen  Salad 

5'pound  fowl.  Few  drops  tabasco  sauce. 

Salt.  3  bunches  celery. 

1  onion,  sliced.  Thick  mayonnaise  dressing 

1  cup  vinegar.  Lettuce. 


Place  the  chicken  on  a  rack  in  a  kettle,  half  cover  with  hot  water,  add 
1  teaspoon  salt,  and  simmer  until  tender.  Let  the  chicken  cool  in  the 
broth.  After  it  is  cold  remove  the  skin,  ^rip  the  meat  from  the  bones, 
and  cut  it  into  small  pieces  of  even  size.  In  the  meantime  soak  the 
onion  in  the  vinegar.  Remove  a  cup  of  chicken  fat  from  the  cold  broth, 
mix  with  this  vinegar,  pour  over  the  chicken,  and  add  the  tabasco  and 
more  salt  and  vinegar  if  needed  to  season  it  well.  Let  this  ^and,  or 
marinate,  for  several  hours,  or  overnight.  Cut  the  celery  ^alks  and 
some  of  the  tender  leaves  into  small  pieces  and  let  ^and  in  a  cold  place 
until  crisp.  Mix  enough  thick,  well'seasoned  mayonnaise  dressing  with 
the  chicken  to  coat  the  pieces  well.  Shortly  before  the  salad  is  to  be 
served,  add  the  celery  and  more  mayonnaise  if  needed.  Stir  the  mixture 
lightly  so  as  not  to  break  up  the  chicken.  Add  ^ill  more  salt  if  needed. 
Pile  the  salad  lightly  on  crisp  lettuce  and  serve  at  once. 

If  desired,  add  one-fourth  cup  of  capers  when  the  celery  and  chicken 
are  combined.  Hard'cooked  eggs  may  be  used  as  a  garnish  or  cut  in 
pieces  and  mixed  with  the  chicken  to  make  it  go  further. 

♦ 


Cider  Gelatin  Salad 

2}4  cups  clear  cider.  1  tablespoon  finely  chopped 
2  tablespoons  gelatin.  parsley  or  green  pepper. 

14  cup  finely  chopped  celery.  2  tablespoons  finely  chopped 
teaspoon  salt.  pimiento. 

Soak  the  gelatin  in  onchalf  cup  of  the  cold  cider.  Heat  the  remainder 
of  the  cider  to  the  boiling  point,  pour  into  the  gelatin,  ^ir  until  dis' 
solved,  ^rain,  and  chill.  When  the  gelatin  mixture  begins  to  set,  ^ir 
in  the  vegetables  and  salt,  and  pour  into  individual  molds,  which  have 
been  rinsed  in  cold  water.  When  set  turn  out  on  lettuce  leaves  and 
serve  with  French  or  mayonnaise  dressing. 


RADIO 


RECIPES 


REVISED 


67 


Grapefruit  Salad 


Peel  the  grapefruit,  pul]  it  apart  in  sections,  and  ^rip  the  skin  and 
pith  from  each  sedtion.  Arrange  the  sections  on  lettuce,  sprinkle  with 
chopped  nuts,  and  garnish  with  a  little  pimiento.  Serve  with  any 
desired  dressing. 

This  salad  may  be  varied  by  combining  the  grapefruit  with  other 
fruits,  such  as  oranges,  dates,  and  pineapple. 


Arrange  slices  of  raw  or  canned  pineapple  on  lettuce,  and  into  the 
center  of  each  slice  drop  a  ball  made  of  cheese  mixed  with  chopped 
nuts  or  green  pepper  or  pimiento  and  seasoned  with  salt.  To  vary  this 
salad,  after  the  pineapple  slices  are  arranged  on  the  lettuce,  decorate 
them  with  the  cheese  pressed  through  a  potato  ricer  or  paltry  tube  and 
sprinkle  on  a  little  salt  and  paprika.  Serve  with  French  or  mayonnaise 
dressing. 

♦ 

Mint-Flavored  Cucumber  and  Pineapple  Gelatin  Salad 

2  tablespoons  gelatin.  }4  cup  diced  cucumber. 

H  cup  cold  water.  2  tablespoons  pineapple  juice. 

1 3-2  cups  boiling  water.  4  tablespoons  lemon  juice. 


Soak  the  gelatin  in  the  cold  water  for  5  minutes,  add  to  the  boiling 
water  with  the  sugar  and  salt,  and  ^ir  until  all  are  dissolved.  Cool  and 
add  the  crushed  pineapple,  diced  cucumber,  pineapple  and  lemon  juice, 
oil  of  peppermint,  and  enough  coloring  matter  to  make  the  mixture  pale 
green.  Set  the  container  in  ice  water,  and  ^ir  until  the  gelatin  mixture 
begins  to  congeal.  Rinse  a  mold  with  cold  water,  coat  it  lightly  with 
some  of  the  clear  gelatin,  and  place  thin  slices  of  cucumber  in  the  bot' 
tom  and  sides.  Then  fill  the  mold  with  the  re^t  of  the  gelatin  mixture 
and  let  ^and  in  a  cold  place  until  firm.  Or  if  preferred  mold  in  cups  for 
individual  servings.  Serve  with  a  tart  salad  dressing  on  a  bed  of  lettuce. 


♦ 


Honolulu  Salad 


5  tablespoons  sugar. 
14  teaspoon  salt. 

34  cup  crushed  pineapple,  drained. 


5  drops  oil  of  peppermint. 
Green  coloring  matter. 


Orange  and  Carrot  Gelatin  Salad 


2  tablespoons  gelatin.  1  tablespoon  lemon  juice. 

'A  cup  cold  water.  2  tablespoons  tarragon  vinegar. 

2  cups  boiling  water.  1  cup  orange  juice  and  pulp. 

'A  teaspoon  salt.  1  cup  grated  raw  carrot. 
1  tablespoon  sugar. 


Soak  the  gelatin  in  the  cold  water  for  5  minutes.  Add  to  the  softened 
gelatin  the  boiling  water,  salt,  sugar,  lemon  juice,  vinegar,  orange  juice 


68 


AUNT  SAMMY'S 


and  pulp,  and  chill.  When  partly  jellied  ^ir  in  the  carrot,  pour  into 
wet  individual  molds,  and  put  in  a  cold  place  to  set.  Turn  out  onto 
lettuce  leaves  and  serve  with  mayonnaise  or  cream  salad  dressing. 


Pear  Salad 

Arrange  halves  of  canned  pears  or  fresh  ripe  pears  cored  and  pared  on 
a  bed  of  lettuce  or  cress.  Add  grated  sharp'flavored  cheese  and  French 
dressing,  or  mayonnaise  dressing  mixed  with  chili  sauce  or  catsup. 


Potato  Salad 

3  pints  diced  cooked  potatoes.  cup  chopped  green  pepper. 

1  tablespoon  minced  onion.  2  cups  finely  cut  celery. 

1 cups  hot,  cooked  salad  dressing.  1  cup  chopped  dill  pickle  or 
IH  to  2  teaspoons  salt.  cucumber. 

Mix  the  potatoes,  onion,  hot  salad  dressing,  and  salt,  and  be  careful 
not  to  break  the  pieces  of  potato.  When  cold,  add  the  green  pepper, 
celery,  and  dill  pickle  or  cucumber,  chill  thoroughly,  and  serve  on 
crisp  lettuce  leaves. 

♦ 

Tomato  Jelly  Salad 

3  tablespoons  gelatin.  1  teaspoon  sugar. 

}4  cup  cold  water.  1  tablespoon  chopped  green  pepper. 

1  quart  canned  tomatoes.  2  tablespoons  chopped  celery. 

2  or  3  slices  onion.  1  tablespoon  chopped  parsley. 
1}4  teaspoons  salt.  1  cup  shredded  cabbage. 

Soak  the  gelatin  in  the  cold  water  for  5  minutes.  Boil  the  tomatoes 
and  onion  for  5  minutes,  strain  through  a  fine  sieve,  pour  the  hot 
tomato  juice  over  the  softened  gelatin,  and  ^ir  until  it  is  dissolved. 
Add  the  salt  and  sugar  and  chill.  When  the  gelatin  mixture  is  partly 
set,  add  the  finely  chopped  vegetables,  and  mix  well.  Add  more  salt 
if  needed.  If  the  mixture  is  not  tart  enough,  add  a  little  lemon  juice 
or  vinegar.  Pour  into  wet  cu^ard  cups  and  place  in  a  cold  place  until 
set,  turn  out  on  crisp  lettuce  leaves,  and  serve  with  mayonnaise. 


Stuffed-Tomato  Salad 

Seledt  large  ripe  tomatoes.  Skin  the  tomatoes,  cut  a  round  piece  from 
the  stem  end,  and  remove  enough  of  the  pulp  to  make  a  cup.  Season 
inside  with  salt,  turn  the  tomatoes  upside  down  to  drain,  and  place 


RADIO 


RECIPES 


REVISED 


69 


in  the  refrigerator  until  time  to  serve.  If  a  hearty  salad  is  desired, 
stuff  the  tomato  shells  with  a  filling  of  chopped  cooked  meat,  fish,  or 
crab  meat,  diced  cucumber,  chopped  celery,  or  some  cooked  green 
vegetable,  the  tomato  pulp,  and  thick  salad  dressing.  For  a  less  sub' 
stantial  salad,  use  only  vegetables  in  the  buffing.  Fill  the  shells  with 
the  mixture,  add  a  spoonful  of  dressing  on  the  top  of  each  stuffed 
tomato,  and  serve  on  crisp  lettuce  leaves. 

♦ 

Vegetable  Salad  Combinations 

1.  Diced  cooked  beets,  chopped  celery,  chopped  dill  pickle  or  olives. 

2.  Raw  grated  rutabaga  and  chopped  celery.  Place  the  grated  ruta' 
baga  in  cheesecloth.  Squeeze  out  some  of  the  juice  before  combining 
with  the  celery. 

3.  Shredded  cabbage,  chopped  green  pepper,  chopped  onion,  and 
chopped  peanuts. 

4.  Raw  grated  carrot,  cooked  or  canned  peas,  chopped  celery. 

5.  Cooked  or  canned  string  beans,  diced  cooked  carrot,  and  chopped 
celery  or  celery  seed. 

6.  Cooked  green  lima  beans,  diced  tomato,  diced  cucumber,  and 
chopped  onion. 

7.  Cooked  cauliflower,  cooked  or  canned  peas,  and  celery  seed. 

8.  Sliced  cucumber,  sliced  radishes,  sliced  onion,  and  watercress. 


Mayonnaise  Dressing 

1  egg  yolk.  Paprika  to  ta^. 

2  tablespoons  vinegar  or  lemon  juice.  1  or  2  drops  tabasco  sauce. 
34  teaspoon  sugar.                                Htol  cup  salad  oil. 

}4  teaspoon  salt. 

Mix  the  seasonings  with  1  tablespoon  vinegar  or  lemon  juice,  add  the 
yolk  of  egg,  and  beat  slightly.  Then  begin  adding  oil,  a  teaspoon  or  two 
at  a  time,  beating  thoroughly  each  time.  When  enough  oil  has  been 
added  to  make  the  mixture  thick,  add  the  remaining  acid,  and  gradually 
beat  in  the  re^  of  the  oil. 

♦ 

Mayonnaise  Variations 

1.  Mayonnaise,  chopped  buffed  olives,  and  finely  chopped  celery. 
Serve  this  with  a  crisp  green  salad. 

2.  Add  whipped  cream  to  mayonnaise  dressing  ju^  before  serving. 
This  is  very  good  with  fruit  salads. 

3.  One  cup  of  mayonnaise  dressing  and  one 'half  cup  of  chili  sauce  or 
catsup.  If  desired,  add  a  little  chopped  celery  or  green  pepper,  or  pickle, 
if  catsup  is  used. 


70 


AUNT  SAMMY'S 


Cooked  Dressing  for  lAeat  and  Vegetable  Salads 

2  whole  eggs,  or  4  egg  yolks.  }4  teaspoon  salt. 

a  cup  vinegar.  M  teaspoon  mu^ard. 

1  tablespoon  butter.  }4  teaspoon  paprika. 

5  tablespoons  cream  cheese.  }4  teaspoon  celery  seed. 

2  tablespoons  cream.  3  drops  tabasco  sauce. 
J/2  teaspoon  sugar. 

Beat  the  eggs  and  vinegar  together  until  smooth.  Cook  the  mixture 
in  a  double  boiler,  and  ^ir  con^antly  until  the  consi^ency  is  that  of 
thick  cream.  Remove  at  once  from  the  heat,  add  the  butter  and  cream 
cheese,  and  ^bir  until  the  mixture  is  smooth.  Then  add  the  cream  and 
the  seasonings.  The  cream  cheese  may  be  omitted,  and  more  cream, 
either  sweet  or  sour,  used  in  its  place.  These  ingredients  will  make 
about  1  cup  of  dressing. 


Coo\ed  Dressing  for  Fruit  Salad 

2  whole  eggs,  or  4  egg  yolks.  }4  teaspoon  salt. 

}4  cup  vinegar.  H  teaspoon  mustard. 

1  cup  sour  cream.  teaspoon  paprika. 

}4  tablespoon  sugar. 

Beat  the  eggs,  add  the  other  ingredients,  and  mix  thoroughly.  Cook 
in  a  double  boiler,  and  ^ir  con^antly  until  the  mixture  thickens. 


Cheese  Dressing  for  Salads 

1  Neufchatel  or  cream  cheese.  Tabasco  sauce,  onion  juice,  a  bit  of 

%  cup  salad  oil.  garlic  or  grated  horseradish  for 

3  to  4  tablespoons  lemon  juice.  seasoning. 
J4  teaspoon  salt. 

Mash  up  the  cheese,  add  the  oil,'  and  beat  with  a  Dover  egg  beater. 
The  mixture  curdles  at  this  point,  but  add  the  other  ingredients  and 
continue  to  beat  until  the  mixture  is  smooth  and  creamy.  Use  this  dress- 
ing in  the  same  way  as  any  other  salad  dressing.  For  fruit  salads  it  is 
particularly  delicious  if  whipped  cream  is  added. 


♦ 


RADIO     RECIPES  REVISED 


71 


Sandwiches 


Sandwich  Fillings 

1.  Cold  sliced  ham,  Swiss  cheese,  sliced  very  thin,  and  crisp  lettuce. 

2.  Chop  hard'cooked  eggs,  and  mix  with  minced  crisp  fried  bacon 
and  enough  salad  dressing  to  moisten. 

3.  Chop  cold  cooked  beef,  pork,  lamb,  veal,  or  hard-cooked  eggs, 
add  chili  sauce  to  moisten,  and  in  each  sandwich  include  a  leaf  of 
crisp  lettuce  or  a  few  sprigs  of  watercress. 

4.  Wash  prunes,  dates,  raisins,  or  dried  figs  or  apricots,  chop  fine, 
mix  with  about  twice  as  much  cream  or  cottage  cheese,  add  salt  to 
season,  and  chopped  nuts  if  desired. 

5.  Soften  sharp'flavored  club  cheese  by  letting  it  ^and  in  a  warm 
room,  add  a  few  tablespoons  of  tomato  catsup,  salt  and  onion  juice  to 
ta^e,  and  chopped  English  walnuts. 

6.  Thinly  sliced  cucumbers  or  tomatoes  spread  with  mayonnaise 
dressing. 

7-  Smoked  cooked  fish,  flaked,  and  lettuce  or  cress. 

8.  Grate  cheddar  cheese  and  mix  with  chopped  celery,  onion,  or 
pickle,  and  enough  mayonnaise  to  give  the  right  consi^ency  for 
spreading. 

9.  Cream  butter  and  combine  with  drained  honey  and  chopped 
blanched  almonds,  or  with  soft  maple  sugar  and  chopped  walnuts. 

10.  Mix  cream  or  cottage  cheese  with  chow'chow,  chili  sauce,  or 
chopped  dill  pickle,  green  or  ripe  olives,  celery,  green  pepper,  parsley, 
watercress,  onion,  or  other  salad  vegetable,  or  with  chopped  nuts,  and 
add  salt  to  season. 

11.  Drain  grated  canned  pineapple  and  mix  with  cream  cheese  and 
salt. 

12.  Spread  slices  of  graham  or  steamed  brown  bread  with  cream 
cheese  and  to  one  add  a  layer  of  quince,  guava,  plum,  or  spiced  apple 
jelly. 

13.  Mix  chopped  celery  with  peanut  butter,  moi^en  with  mayon- 
naise dressing,  and  add  salt  and  pepper  to  season. 

14.  Mix  a  few  caraway  or  celery  seeds  with  cream  or  cottage  cheese 
to  give  variety  in  flavor,  and  add  salt  to  season  and  enough  cream  to 
make  the  mixture  easy  to  spread. 

15.  Grind  shelled  roamed  peanuts  medium  fine,  mix  with  enough 
cream  to  moi^en,  and  add  salt  to  season.  This  is  particularly  good  as 
a  filling  for  graham  or  whole-wheat  bread. 


72  AUNT  SAMMY'S 


16.  To  one'half  cup  cold  Bo^on  baked  beans,  add  2  tablespoons 
chiH  sauce,  mash,  mix  to  a  smooth  pa^e,  and  spread  between  slices  of 
brown  bread. 

17.  Heat  dried  beef  in  melted  butter  in  a  skillet  until  the  beef  curls 
at  the  edges.  Use  as  sandwich  filling  with  crisp  lettuce,  cress,  or 
chopped  parsley. 

18.  Grind  the  end  of  a  cooked  ham  no  longer  suitable  for  sHcing, 
mix  with  chopped  dill  pickle  or  green  olives,  and  enough  salad  dress' 
ing  to  moi^en. 

19.  Grind  together  dried  apricots  and  dates  or  other  dried  fruits, 
mix  with  chopped  nuts,  and  add  enough  lemon  juice  to  tone  up  the 
flavor. 

20.  Crumble  up  roquefort  cheese  and  mix  with  mayonnaise  dress' 
ing.  Use  with  lettuce  and  whole'wheat  bread. 


♦ 


Hot  Roast  Beef  Sandwiches 

Make  sandwiches  with  toa^ed  bread  and  slices  of  roa^  beef.  Serve 
on  hot  plates  with  hot  gravy  poured  over  the  sandwiches,  and  garnish 
with  a  sprig  of  parsley  and  a  pickle. 


Hot  Spanish  Sandwiches 

2  tablespoons  chopped  onion.  1  tablespoon  flour. 

2  tablespoons  melted  butter  Salt  and  pepper  to  ta^. 
or  other  fat.  i4  pound  sliced  bacon. 

3  cups  canned  tomatoes.  10  sUces  bread. 

1  green  pepper,  chopped.  Thin  slices  soft  American  cheese, 

cup  chopped  celery. 

Cook  the  onion  for  a  few  minutes  in  1  tablespoon  of  the  fat,  add  the 
tomatoes,  green  pepper,  and  celery,  and  simmer  uncovered  for  25  to  30 
minutes.  Blend  the  remaining  fat  with  the  flour,  add  to  the  sauce  with 
salt  and  pepper  to  ta^e,  and  ^ir  until  it  thickens  slightly.  Fry  the 
bacon  until  crisp,  and  toa^  the  bread  on  both  sides  until  golden  brown. 
Make  sandwiches  of  the  bread  and  bacon  and  lay  the  thin  slices  of 
cheese  on  top.  Put  on  hot  plates  and  pour  over  the  sandwiches  the  hot 
tomato  sauce. 


RADIO     RECIPES  REVISED 


73 


Ripe^Olive  Cluh  Sandwiches 

1  loaf  bread.  6  slices  cooked  bacon,  crisp. 

3  large  ripe,  skinned  tomatoes,  1  cup  ripe  olives,  cut  from  ^nea. 

sliced  thin.  Thick  mayonnaise. 

3  hard'Cooked  eggs,  sliced.  Lettuce. 

Slice  the  bread,  trim  off  the  cru^s,  and  toa^  until  hghtly  browned. 
Make  double-decker  sandwiches  with  the  toa^  and  other  ingredients 
arranged  in  layers  of  lettuce,  egg,  bacon,  tomato,  and  olives  with 
enough  mayonnaise  to  moi^en.  Insert  toothpicks  to  hold  the  sand' 
wiches  together  and  garnish  the  tops  with  crisp  lettuce  and  a  few  of 
the  shced  ripe  olives. 


Watercress  or  Parsley  Butter  for  Sandwich  Filling 

Yi  cup  butter.  Few  drops  tabasco  sauce. 

%  cup  finely  ground  watercress  3^  tablespoon  lemon  juice, 

or  parsley.  if  desired. 

M  teaspoon  salt. 

Cream  the  butter,  add  the  finely  ground  watercress  or  parsley,  salt, 
tabasco  sauce,  and  lemon  juice,  and  ^ir  until  well  blended.  Use  as  a 
sandwich  spread.  If  making  fancy  rolled  sandwiches,  place  a  sprig  of 
watercress  in  each  end. 


Open  Orange  Sandwiches. 

cup  butter  K  teaspoon  salt 

cup  grated  orange  rind  or  more  if         A  small  quantity  of  orange  or 

desired.  lemon  juice. 

Cream  the  butter,  add  the  grated  rind  of  the  orange  and  the  juice, 
a  little  at  a  time.  Add  the  salt.  Spread  on  slices  of  thin  sandwich 
bread  and  serve  as  an  open  sandwich.  The  slices  may  be  cut  diagO' 
nally  or  in  fancy  shapes.  Especially  attrad;ive  for  color  scheme  in 
serving  tea. 


74 


AUNT  SAMMY'S 


Sauces 


Butterscotch  Sauce 

1  cup  brown  sugar.  1  cup  boiling  water. 

2  tablespoons  flour.  2  tablespoons  butter. 
Speck  of  cinnamon.  }-2  teaspoon  vanilla. 
}4  teaspoon  salt. 

Mix  the  brown  sugar,  flour,  cinnamon,  and  salt,  add  to  the  boiling 
water,  cook  for  5  minutes,  and  ^ir  continually.  Beat  in  the  butter  and 
vanilla,  and  serve  hot  on  ice  cream,  cu^ard,  or  pudding. 


Chocolate  Sauce 

2  squares  unsweetened  chocolate.  1  tablespoon  butter. 

1  cup  granulated  sugar.  }i  teaspoon  salt. 

H  cup  milk.  }i  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Melt  the  chocolate  in  a  double  boiler,  add  the  sugar,  milk,  butter, 
and  salt,  and  cook  for  10  minutes  until  fairly  thick.  Add  the  vanilla, 
beat  well,  and  serve  hot  over  ice  cream,  cottage  pudding,  or  dry  cake. 


Cranberry  Sauce 

1  quart  (1  pound)  cranberries.  2  cups  sugar, 

cups  water. 

Pick  over  the  cranberries  and  discard  all  that  are  withered  or  specked. 
Bring  the  sugar  and  water  to  the  boil,  add  the  berries,  and  cook  quickly 
for  about  10  minutes,  or  until  the  skins  break.  Turn  into  a  dampened 
mold,  chill,  and  let  ^and  until  jellied. 

For  a  drained  sauce,  cook  the  berries  and  water  rapidly  in  a  covered 
saucepan  for  about  15  minutes,  or  until  the  berries  are  soft.  Strain 
through  a  fine  sieve,  add  the  sugar,  ^ir,  and  cook  for  about  3  minutes, 
or  until  the  juice  gives  the  2'drop  te^t  from  a  spoon.  Pour  into  a  wet 
mold,  chill,  and  let  ^and  until  set. 

For  a  sauce  with  the  berries  whole,  use  only  three-fourths  cup  of 
water  and  1 M  cups  sugar.  Bring  the  sugar  and  water  to  the  boil,  pour 
in  the  berries,  and  ^ir  until  the  berries  are  coated  with  the  sirup.  Boil 
for  5  minutes  and  ^ir  lightly.  Cover  and  let  ^tand  until  cool.  Chill 
before  serving. 


RADIO     RECIPES  REVISED 


75 


Egg  Sauce  for  Fish 

4  tablespcxjns  melted  butter.  2  hard'Cooked  eggs. 

3  tablespcxjns  flour.  1  tablespoon  lemon  juice. 

14  teaspoon  salt.  Pepper. 
2  cups  milk. 

Blend  the  fat,  flour,  and  salt.  Add  the  milk  and  ^ir  con^antly  until 
thickened.  Chop  the  eggs  and  add  to  the  sauce  with  the  lemon  juice 
and  pepper  to  season.  A  well'beaten  egg  yolk  birred  into  the  mixture 
after  it  is  taken  from  the  fire  makes  it  richer. 


♦ 


Foamy  Sauce 

14.  cup  butter.  2  eggs. 

1/2  cup  granulated  sugar.  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Yi  teaspoon  salt.  1  tablespoon  lemon  juice. 

2  tablespoons  boiling  water. 

Cream  the  butter,  and  add  the  sugar,  salt,  boiling  water,  and  the 
well'beaten  egg  yolks.  Cook  over  ^eam  and  ^ir  con^antly  until  thick' 
ened.  Fold  into  this  the  well-beaten  egg  whites  and  the  vanilla  and 
lemon  juice.  Serve  at  once. 


Hard  Sauce 

14  cup  butter  ]  2  teaspoon  vanilla. 

%  cup  powdered  sugar.  Grated  nutmeg. 

Cream  together  the  butter  and  sugar,  add  the  vanilla  and  nutmeg  to 
season.  The  secret  of  creamy  hard  sauce  lies  in  long  beating.  Chill 
before  serving.  For  variety  sub^itute  brown  sugar  and  flavor  with  the 
grated  rind  of  an  orange. 


HoWandaise  Sauce 

14  cup  butter.  14  teaspoon  salt. 

4  egg  yolks.  Dajh  of  cayenne. 

2  tablespoons  lemon  juice.  M  cup  boiling  water. 

Divide  the  butter  into  three  portions.  Beat  the  egg  yolks  and  lemon 
juice  together,  add  one  piece  of  butter,  and  cook  in  a  double  boiler, 
stirring  coniftantly  until  the  mixture  begins  to  thicken.  Remove  from 
the  ^ove,  add  a  second  piece  of  butter,  and  ^ir  rapidly.  Then  add  the 
remaining  butter,  and  continue  to  Air  until  the  mixture  is  completely 
blended.  Add  the  salt,  cayenne,  and  boiling  water.  Return  ,to  the 
double  boiler,  and  Air  until  the  sauce  thickens. 

39363°— 31  6 


76 


AUNT  SAMMY'S 


Honey  and  Orange  Sauce 

1  cup  honey.  }4  cup  orange  juice, 

cup  finely  chopped  fresh  14  teaspoon  salt, 

orange  peel. 

Combine  the  ingredients  and  let  ^and  over  hot  water,  without  cook' 
ing,  for  about  30  minutes  to  blend  the  flavors.  Serve  as  a  sauce  on  ice 
cream. 


♦ 


Horseradish  Sauce 

)^  cup  thick  sweet  or  sour  cream.       3  or  4  tablespoons  fresh  grated 
yi  teaspoon  salt.  horseradish. 
1  teaspoon  sugar. 

Whip  the  cream,  salt,  and  sugar,  and  gradually  add  the  horseradish. 
Serve  with  meat  or  fish. 


Pineapple  Sauce 

1  No.  2  can  (about  2  cups)  1  tablespoon  cornstarch. 

crushed  pineapple.  H  teaspoon  salt. 

}4  cup  sugar.  1  tablespoon  butter. 


Drain  the  juice  from  the  crushed  pineapple.  Mix  the  corn^arch  and 
the  sugar,  add  it  to  the  juice,  cook  over  diredt  heat  until  the  sauce 
thickens,  and  ^ir  con^antly.  Add  the  drained  fruit,  butter,  and  salt, 
and  cook  for  a  few  minutes  longer.  Serve  hot  or  cold  over  cottage 
pudding  or  dry  plain  cake. 

♦ 


Spanish  or  Creole  Sauce 


2  tablespoons  chopped  onion. 
2  tablespoons  butter  or  other  fat. 

1  tablespoon  flour. 

2  cups  canned  tomatoes. 
H  cup  chopped  celery. 


1  green  pepper,  chopped. 

4  tablespoons  chopped  cooked  ham 

or  bacon. 
Chopped  parsley. 
Salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 


Cook  the  onion  in  the  fat  for  a  few  minutes.  Sprinkle  the  flour  over 
the  onion  and  quickly  ^ir  in  the  tomatoes,  celery,  green  pepper,  and 
simmer  for  about  20  minutes.  Add  the  ham  or  bacon,  parsley,  and  salt 
and  pepper,  and  serve  at  once. 


RADIO 


RECIPES 


REVISED 


77 


Tomato  SaiJice 

2  cups  canned  tomatoes.  2  whole  cloves. 

2  slices  onion.  Flour. 

1  teaspoon  sugar.  Butter  or  other  fat. 

1  bay  leaf.  Salt  and  pepper. 

2  whole  allspice. 

Simmer  the  tomato,  onion,  sugar,  and  spices  for  10  minutes.  Strain 
through  a  fine  sieve,  and  measure  the  liquid.  For  each  cup  of  liquid 
blend  2  tablespoons  flour  and  2  tablespoons  melted  fat,  add  to  the 
tomato  juice  with  salt  and  pepper  to  season,  and  ^ir  until  thickened. 
Continue  to  cook  over  hot  water  for  5  to  10  minutes.  Serve  hot  with 
croquettes  or  meat  loaf. 

♦ 

Tutti-Frutti  Sauce 

4  slices  canned  pineapple.  }4  cup  blanched  almonds. 

1  pint  pineapple  juice  and  water.  1  cup  candied  cherries  cut  in 

cup  sugar.  quarters. 

14  teaspoon  salt.  ]4  cup  finely  cut  citron. 

Strain  the  juice  from  the  canned  pineapple,  add  suflScient  water  to 
make  1  pint,  combine  with  sugar  and  salt,  and  cook  for  about  10  min' 
utes,  or  until  the  sirup  is  fairly  thick.  Break  the  almonds  in  half,  cut 
the  sliced  pineapple  into  thin  pieces,  and  add  with  the  cherries  and 
citron  to  the  sirup.  Boil  for  a  few  minutes,  chill,  and  serve  over  frozen 
cu^ard,  vanilla  ice  cream,  or  blanc  mange. 


White  Sauce 


THIN 

1  tablespoon  butter.  1  cup  milk  or  other  liquid, 

1  tablespoon  flour.  }i  teaspoon  salt. 

MEDIUM 

2  tablespoons  butter.  1  cup  milk  or  other  liquid. 

2  tablespoons  flour.  }i  teaspoon  salt. 

THICK 

3  tablespoons  butter.  1  cup  milk  or  other  liquid. 
3  to  4  tablespoons  flour.  M  teaspoon  salt. 

Blend  the  melted  fat  and  flour  thoroughly,  add  the  cold  milk  or  other 
liquid  and  salt.  Heat  and  ^ir  constantly  until  thickened.  Cook  over 
steam  for  10  minutes  longer. 


78  AUNT  SAMMY'S 


biscuits,  "Muffins,  and  Breads^ 
♦ 

T^ut  Biscuits 

2  cups  sifted  soft-wheat  flour.  1  tablespoon  fat. 

4  teaspoons  baking  powder.  >^  cup  ground  nuts. 

%  teaspoon  salt.  %  cup  milk,  or  enough  for  soft  dough. 

Sift  the  dry  ingredients  and  cut  in  the  fat  and  nuts  with  a  biscuit 
cutter.  Make  a  well  in  the  mixture  and  add  the  milk  slowly  and  ^ir 
from  the  center  with  a  fork,  until  a  soft  dough  is  formed.  Toss  the 
dough  on  a  lightly  floured  board,  and  press  into  a  sheet  about  one' 
fourth  inch  thick  with  the  palm  of  the  hand.  Cut  into  small  rounds, 
brush  the  top  with  butter,  and  place  one  round  over  the  other.  Bake 
in  a  hot  oven  (400°  F.)  about  15  minutes,  or  until  Hghtly  brown. 
Serve  hot. 

♦ 

Orange  Turn-Over  Biscuits 

2  cups  sifted  soft'wheat  flour.  %  cup  milk. 

4  teaspoons  baking  powder.  }4  cup  melted  butter. 

1  teaspoon  salt.  Grated  orange  rind. 

3  tablespoons  fat.  Sugar. 

Sift  the  dry  ingredients  and  cut  in  the  fat  with  a  biscuit  cutter. 
Make  a  well  in  the  mixture  and  add  the  milk  slowly;  ^ir  from  the 
center  with  a  fork  until  a  fairly  ^iff  dough  is  formed.  Knead  for  a 
few  seconds  until  smooth.  Roll  out  about  oncfourth  inch  thick  on  a 
lightly  floured  board,  cut  with  a  small  biscuit  cutter,  and  fold  over 
like  a  pocketbook  roll.  Dip  quickly  into  the  melted  butter,  drain,  and 
put  in  a  baking  pan.  To  each  tablespoon  of  grated  orange  rind  add  1 
tablespoon  of  sugar,  and  mix  well.  With  the  tip  of  a  knife,  place  a 
small  quantity  of  the  orange  and  sugar  mixture  between  the  folds  of 
the  biscuits  and  spread  a  little  over  the  top.  Bake  in  a  moderately  hot 
oven  (375°  F.)  until  lightly  browned.  Serve  at  once. 


Blueberry  Mujfins 

1  egg.  34  teaspoon  salt. 

^  cup  milk.  4  tablespoons  melted  butter  or 

2  cups  sifted  flour.  other  fat. 

4  teaspoons  baking  powder.  1  cup  blueberries  or  huckleberries, 

}4  cup  sugar.  washed  and  dried. 

Beat  the  egg  slightly,  add  the  milk,  and  then  add  this  mixture  to  the 
sifted  dry  ingredients,  reserving  about  2  tablespoons  of  flour  for  coat' 

'  Home  Baking,  Farmers'  Bulletin  1450,  U.  S.  Department  of  Agriculture,  gives  additional  recipes  for 
veaA  breads,  quick  breads,  cakes,  and  cookies. 


RADIO     RECIPES  REVISED 


79 


ing  the  berries.  Add  the  berries  after  they  have  been  floured,  and  the 
melted  fat.  Stir  until  mixed,  but  do  not  beat.  Pour  the  batter  into 
well-greased  muffin  tins  and  bake  for  about  30  minutes  in  a  moder- 
ately  hot  oven  (400°  F.).  Serve  hot. 


Cranberry  Mujfins 

1  egg.  yi  teaspoon  salt. 

cup  milk.  4  tablespoons  melted  butter  or 

2  cups  sifted  flour.  other  fat. 

4  teaspoons  baking  powder.  1  cup  cranberries. 

14  cup  sugar. 

Beat  the  egg  slightly  and  add  the  milk.  To  the  Hquid  mixture,  add 
the  sifted  dry  ingredients.  Roll  the  berries  in  two  more  tablespoons 
of  sugar,  and  fold  into  the  batter  with  the  melted  fat.  Do  not  ^ir 
the  mixture  any  more  than  necessary.  Pour  into  greased  muffin  pans 
and  bake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven  (400°  F.)  for  about  30  minutes,  or 
until  brown.  Serve  hot. 


English  iS/lujfins 

1  cake  yeast.  2  tablespoons  melted  fat. 

H  cup  lukewarm  water.  4  cups  sifted  flour. 

1  cup  scalded  milk,  cooled.  VA  teaspoons  salt. 

Soften  the  yea^  in  the  lukewarm  water.  Make  a  sponge  of  the  milk, 
softened  yea^,  fat,  and  IJ/^  cups  of  the  flour.  Mix  well.  Cover,  and 
put  in  a  warm  place  to  rise  for  about  an  hour.  When  this  sponge  is 
light  add  the  remaining  flour  which  has  been  sifted  with  the  salt.  Beat 
this  soft  dough  until  it  is  ela^ic.  Again  cover,  and  put  in  a  warm  place 
to  rise.  When  double  in  bulk  toss  the  dough  on  a  floured  board,  and 
lightly  work  in  a  little  flour.  Roll  the  dough  out  into  a  sheet  about  one 
inch  thick,  cut  in  large  rounds,  cover,  and  let  rise  for  about  an  hour. 
Bake  slowly  on  both  sides  on  a  lightly  greased  griddle.  After  the 
muffins  are  cold,  split,  butter,  and  toa^,  and  serve  hot. 


Graham  Muffins 

V/i  cups  unsifted  Graham  flour.         1  egg. 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder.  1  cup  milk. 

1  tablespoon  sugar.  1  tablespoon  melted  fat. 

]/2  teaspoon  salt. 

Mix  all  the  dry  ingredients  thoroughly.  Beat  the  egg  slightly,  add 
the  milk,  and  ^ir  with  the  fat  into  the  dry  ingredients.  Do  not  ^ir  the 
muffin  batter  any  more  than  necessary.  Bake  in  greased  muffin  pans  for 
25  to  30  minutes  in  a  hot  oven  (400°  to  425°  F.). 


80 


AUNT  SAMMY'S 


Oatmeal  hlujfins 

1  cup  fine  rolled  oats.  1  egg. 

1  cup  sifted  flour.  1  cup  milk. 

4  teaspoons  baking  powder.  1  tablespoon  melted  fat. 

}i  teaspoon  salt. 

Mix  the  dry  ingredients.  Beat  the  egg  slightly,  add  the  milk,  and  ^ir 
with  the  melted  fat  into  the  dry  mixture.  Bake  in  greased  muffin  pans 
in  a  moderately  hot  oven  (400°  F.)  for  25  to  30  minutes.  Serve  hot,  or 
when  cold  split,  butter,  and  toa^  before  serving. 


♦ 


Boston  Brown  Bread 

1  cup  corn  meal  and  1  cup  rye  meal,  2  cups  sour  milk,  and  IH  teaspoons 

or  2  cups  corn  meal.  soda,  or  2  cups  sweet  milk,  14  tea- 

1  cup  Graham  flour.  spoon  soda,  and  4  teaspoons  bak' 

1  teaspoon  salt.  ing  powder. 

%  cup  molasses.  ^ 

Mix  the  dry  ingredients  and  add  the  molasses  and  the  milk.  Beat  the 
mixture  thoroughly,  and  pour  into  greased  molds  until  they  are  about 
three'fourths  full.  Cover  loosely  to  keep  out  the  moi^ure,  and  ^eam 
for  33^  hours.  Remove  the  covers  and  bake  the  bread  in  a  moderate  oven 
for  about  10  minutes  to  dry  it  off.  If  the  bread  seems  likely  to  crumble, 
loop  a  ^ring  around  the  loaf  and  cut  slices  by  pulling  the  ends  of  the 
^ring. 


Brioche 

1  cake  yea^.  1  cup  melted  fat,  at  least 

%  cup  lukewarm  water.  half  butter. 

4  cups  sifted  flour.  1  tablespoon  sugar. 

4  eggs.  134  teaspoons  salt. 

Soften  the  yeast  in  the  lukewarm  water.  Stir  into  this  1  cup  of  the 
flour,  cover,  and  put  in  a  warm  place  to  rise.  When  light  add  the  eggs 
unbeaten,  the  melted  fat,  and  the  remaining  flour  sifted  with  the  sugar 
and  salt,  and  beat  for  2  or  3  minutes.  Cover  and  allow  to  rise  until 
double  in  bulk.  Beat  again  for  a  few  minutes.  Grease  the  surface  of  the 
dough,  cover,  and  put  in  a  refrigerator  for  overnight  or  for  two  to  three 
hours.  Pinch  off  portions  of  the  dough,  put  in  greased  muffin  pans,  and 
let  rise  in  a  warm  place.  When  light,  brush  with  melted  butter  or 
milk,  bake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven  (about  400°  F.)  for  25  to  30 
minutes  or  until  golden  brown. 


RADIO     RECIPES  REVISED 


81 


Swedish  Coffee  Bread 

1  pint  milk.  Ij^  teaspoons  salt. 

1  cake  yeast.  20  cardamon  seeds,  shelled, 

1  cup  sugar.  and  pounded  fine. 

14  cup  fat.  7'4  to  8  cups  sifted  flour. 

Scald  the  milk  in  a  double  boiler.  Take  out  one'half  cup  of  the  milk, 
and  when  lukewarm  add  the  yea^  to  soften.  To  the  hot  milk  add  the 
sugar,  fat,  salt,  and  cardamon  seeds.  When  cool,  add  the  yea^.  Stir 
the  liquid  ingredients  into  the  flour,  and  mix  well.  Knead  for  10  or  15 
minutes,  until  the  dough  springs  back  into  place  when  pressed  with 
the  fingers.  Put  the  dough  into  a  greased  bowl,  grease  the  top,  cover, 
and  keep  warm  until  double  in  bulk.  The  dough  may  be  divided  if 
desired  and  one  half  made  into  a  braided  loaf,  and  the  other  half  into 
fancy  shaped  rolls. 

For  the  Swedish  coffee  braid,  cut  the  dough  into  three  or  four 
long  pices  of  uniform  size,  and  roll  between  the  palms  of  the  hands 
until  smooth  and  even;  then  braid.  Put  in  a  greased  pan,  cover,  let 
rise,  brush  with  yolk  of  egg,  slightly  beaten  and  diluted  with  one-half 
tablespoon  of  cold  water.  Sprinkle  with  sugar  or  ground  nuts,  and 
bake  in  moderate  oven  (350°  F.),  for  about  45  minutes.  This  bread  is 
especially  good  toasted. 

For  the  fancy  rolls,  take  small  pieces  of  the  dough,  roll  between  the 
hands,  shape  into  knots,  half  moons,  or  curls,  and  finish  in  the  same 
way  as  the  braid.  Bake  for  20  to  25  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven 
(350°  F.). 

♦ 

Corn  Bread 

2  cups  corn  meal.  2  teaspoons  salt. 

H  teaspoon  soda.  2  cups  sour  milk. 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder.  2  eggs. 

2  tablespoons  melted  fat. 

Sift  the  dry  ingredients  and  add  the  milk.  Add  the  well'beaten  eggs 
and  the  fat.  Pour  into  a  very  hot  well'buttered  pan.  Bake  from  40  to 
50  minutes  in  a  hot  oven  (400°  to  425°  F.). 


T^ut  Bread 

2}i  cups  sifted  flour.  2  eggs. 

2  tablespoons  sugar.  1  cup  milk. 

3  teaspoons  baking  powder.  1  cup  chopped  nuts. 

1  teaspoon  salt.  4  tablespoons  melted  fat. 

14  teaspoon  cinnamon. 

Sift  together  the  dry  ingredients.  Beat  the  eggs,  add  the  milk,  and 
add  to  the  fir^  mixture.  Stir  in  the  chopped  nuts  and  the  fat.  Let  the 
dough  ^nd  in  a  well-greased  bread  pan  for  20  minutes.  Bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  (350°  F.)  for  about  1  hour. 


82 


AUNT  SAMMY'S 


Popovers 

2  eggs.  }4  teaspoon  salt. 

1  cup  milk.  1  tablespoon  melted  butter. 

1  cup  flour. 

Beat  the  eggs  slightly,  add  the  milk,  and  combine  this  slowly  to  the 
sifted  flour  and  salt.  Mix  until  there  are  no  lumps,  and  add  the  fat. 
Pour  the  batter  into  hot  greased  popover  pans  until  about  half  full. 
Bake  for  30  minutes  in  a  hot  oven  (450°  F.),  then  reduce  the  tempera' 
ture  to  moderate  (350°  F.)  for  15  minutes  longer. 


Potato  Rolls 

1  cup  diced  raw  potato.  1  %  teaspoons  salt. 

2  cups  water.  1  tablespoon  sugar. 
i4  cake  yeast.                               3  tablespoons  fat. 

4  cups  sifted  flour. 

Cook  the  potato  in  the  water  until  soft,  drain,  and  save  1  cup  of  the 
potato  water,  or  if  necessary  add  more  water  to  make  1  cup  of  liquid. 
Rice  the  potato.  Soften  the  yeast  in  the  lukewarm  potato  water.  Sift 
3J^  cups  of  flour  with  the  salt  and  sugar.  Rub  in  the  fat  with  the  tips 
of  the  fingers,  and  add  the  yeast  liquid  and  the  potatoes.  Knead  the 
dough  until  it  springs  back  into  place  when  pressed  with  the  fingers, 
and  add  the  remaining  one'half  cup  of  flour  if  required.  Place  in  a 
greased  bowl,  grease  the  dough,  cover,  and  let  rise  until  double  in  bulk. 
Without  kneading  the  dough  again,  pinch  ofl^  small  pieces,  shape  them 
lightly,  and  place  by  threes  in  greased  muflBin  tins,  to  form  clover  leaf 
rolls.  Let  them  rise  again  until  double  in  bulk.  Bake  for  about  25  min' 
utes  in  a  moderately  hot  oven  (375°  to  400°  F.),  until  golden  brown. 
Serve  hot. 


Raisin  Bread 

lYi  cups  sifted  flour.  2  eggs. 

2  tablespoons  sugar.  1  cup  milk. 

3  teaspoons  baking  powder.  1  Yi  cups  chopped  raisins. 
1  teaspoon  salt.  4  tablespoons  melted  fat. 
1/2  teaspoon  cinnamon. 

Sift  together  the  dry  ingredients.  Beat  the  eggs,  add  the  milk,  and 
add  to  the  fir^  mixture.  Stir  in  the  raisins  and  fat.  Let  the  dough  ^and 
for  20  minutes  in  a  well-greased  bread  pan.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
(350°  F.)  for  about  1  hour. 


RADIO     RECIPES  REVISED 


83 


Sally  Lunn 

1  cup  milk.  IJ-^  teaspoons  salt. 

1  cake  yeast.  214  cups  sifted  flour. 

<4  cup  sugar.  2  eggs. 
14  cup  butter  or  other  fat. 

Heat  the  milk  in  a  double  boiler.  Remove  oncfourth  cup  and  when 
lukewarm  add  the  yea^.  To  the  remaining  hot  milk  add  the  sugar,  fat, 
and  salt.  When  this  mixture  is  lukewarm  ^ir  in  the  softened  yea^  and 
1  cup  of  the  flour,  beat  well,  cover,  and  put  in  a  warm  place  to  rise. 
When  light,  add  the  beaten  eggs  and  remaining  flour,  pour  the  batter 
into  a  well-greased  tube  pan,  and  when  double  in  volume  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  (350°  F.)  for  about  40  minutes. 


Spoon  Bread 

1  cup  corn  meal.  1  cup  milk. 

2  cups  cold  water.  2  or  3  eggs. 

2  teaspoons  salt.  2  tablespoons  melted  fat. 

Mix  the  meal,  water,  and  salt,  and  boil  for  5  minutes,  birring  con* 
^antly.  Add  the  milk,  well'beaten  eggs,  and  melted  fat,  and  mix  well. 
Pour  in  a  well'greased  hot  pan  or  baking  dish  and  bake  for  45  to  50 
minutes  in  a  hot  oven  (400°  F.).  Serve  from  the  pan  in  which  baked. 


Waffles 

2  cups  sifted  soft- wheat  flour.  1 cups  milk. 

3  teaspoons  baking  powder.  2  eggs. 

I} 2  tablespoons  sugar.  3  tablespoons  melted  fat. 

^  teaspoon  salt. 

Mix  the  dry  ingredients,  add  the  milk  and  egg  yolks,  then  the  melted 
fat,  and  la^ly  fold  in  the  beaten  whites  of  eggs.  Have  the  waffle  iron 
hot  enough  to  brown  the  waffle  quickly.  For  an  eledlric  iron  add  an 
extra  tablespoon  of  melted  fat  to  the  batter. 

To  make  pecan  waffles,  add  1  cup  chopped  pecans  to  the  batter  before 
baking. 


84  AUNT  SAMMY'S 


Fruits  and  Puddings 


Apple  Sauce 

Wash,  pare,  quarter,  and  core  the  apples;  or  if  the  sauce  is  to  be  put 
through  a  colander,  leave  the  skins  on.  Cook  the  apples  until  soft  in  a 
covered  pan,  using  ju^  enough  water  to  keep  them  from  scorching.  If 
the  skins  have  been  left  on,  put  the  sauce  through  a  colander.  Sweeten 
the  sauce  to  ta^e,  and  add  a  few  grains  of  salt. 

Flavor  may  be  varied  by  adding  lemon  juice  or  spices,  such  as  cinna' 
mon,  nutmeg,  or  cloves.  Nutmeg  should  be  used  only  in  apple  sauce 
which  is  to  be  eaten  at  once,  for  it  is  likely  to  make  the  flavor  bitter  on 
landing. 

♦ 

Ba\ed  Apples 

Wash  the  apples  and  core  them  without  cutting  through  the  blossom 
end.  Place  the  apples  in  a  baking  dish;  fill  the  holes  with  sugar  and 
butter,  and  raisins,  if  desired.  Add  juSt  enough  water  to  keep  the 
apples  from  kicking,  and  cover  the  dish.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven  until  the 
apples  are  soft.  Serve  baked  apples  hot  or  cold,  with  or  without  cream. 

♦ 

Scalloped  Apples 

Pare,  core,  and  slice  tart  apples  of  a  kind  that  will  hold  their  shape 
when  cooked.  Place  a  layer  of  the  sliced  apples  in  a  baking  dish, 
sprinkle  with  sugar,  and  dot  with  butter.  Put  in  another  layer  of 
apples  and  press  down,  add  more  seasoning,  and  keep  on  until  the  dish 
is  heaping  full.  Cover  the  dish  and  cook  the  apples  slowly  for  from  1 
to  hours  in  a  moderate  oven.  As  the  apples  cook  down  during  the 
fir^  half  hour,  a  few  more  may  be  added.  Fifteen  minutes  before  the 
apples  are  to  be  served,  remove  the  cover,  and  spread  buttered  bread 
crumbs  over  the  top.  Return  to  the  oven  and  let  the  crumbs  be' 
come  golden  brown  and  crisp.  The  apples  will  be  in  whole  pieces, 
almost  transparent,  and  some  kinds  will  be  pink  in  color.  Scalloped 
apples  are  good  served  hot  with  the  main  course  of  dinner  or  supper. 


<  Eggs  at  Any  Meal,  Leaflet  39.  U.  S.  Department  of  Agriculture,  gives  recipes  for  fruit  whips,  souffles,  and 
plain  custards. 


RADIO     RECIPES  REVISED 


85 


Fried  Apples  and  Bacon 

Pare  tart  winter  apples,  and  cut  into  inch  cubes  to  make  about  2 
quarts.  Fry  bacon  in  a  heavy  skillet  and  as  soon  as  crisp,  remove,  drain 
on  absorbent  paper,  and  keep  in  a  warm  place.  Leave  about  4  table' 
spoons  of  bacon  fat  in  the  skillet,  fill  it  with  the  apples,  sprinkle  on 
onc'fourth  cup  of  sugar,  cover,  and  cook  slowly  until  the  apples  are 
tender.  Then  remove  the  cover,  turn  the  apples  gently  so  the  pieces 
will  keep  their  shape,  and  let  them  brown  lightly.  They  are  then 
almo^  transparent.  Place  them  on  a  hot  platter,  and  surround  them 
with  the  crisp  bacon. 

♦ 

Apple  Brown  Betty 

1  quarts  diced  tart  apples.  1  teaspoon  cinnamon. 

1  quart  bread  crumbs  (oven  toa^d         Vt,  teaspoon  salt. 

until  crisp  and  light  brown.)  34  cup  melted  butter. 

\\i  cups  sugar. 

Grease  a  baking  dish  and  place  in  it  a  layer  of  crumbs,  then  a  layer 
of  apples,  and  some  of  the  sugar,  cinnamon,  and  salt,  which  have  been 
mixed  together.  Repeat  until  all  the  ingredients  are  used,  saving  suf' 
ficient  crumbs  for  the  top.  Pour  the  melted  fat  over  the  top  layer  of 
crumbs,  cover,  and  bake  for  30  to  45  minutes,  or  until  the  apples  are 
soft.  Toward  the  la^  remove  the  cover  and  allow  the  top  to  brown. 
Serve  hot,  with  plain  or  whipped  cream,  or  hard  sauce. 


Apple  Compote 

6  tart  apples.  Red  coloring  or  red  cinnamon 

2  cups  sugar.  candies. 

2  cups  water.  3^  teaspoon  salt. 

Select  tart  apples  that  will  hold  their  shape  when  cooked,  pare,  and 
core  them.  In  a  pan  large  enough  to  hold  all  the  apples  make  a  sirup  of 
the  sugar  and  water,  add  the  red  coloring  or  red  candies,  and  salt,  put 
in  the  apples,  cover,  and  sirmner  until  the  apples  are  tender  when  pierced 
with  a  Araw.  Drain,  and  place  at  once  on  plates  for  serving,  fill  the 
centers  with  tart  jelly,  and  on  top  add  a  spoonful  of  hard  sauce,  grated 
coconut,  or  chopped  nuts.  Or  the  apples  may  be  served  cold  with 
whipped  cream. 

The  sirup  may  be  used  in  fruit  drinks,  or  more  added  to  it  and  another 
lot  of  apples  cooked  in  it. 


86 


AUNT  SAMMY'S 


Apple  Float 

2  cups  thick  apple  sauce.  4  egg  whites. 

Sweeten  the  apple  sauce  to  ta^e  while  hot,  add  a  little  salt,  and  set 
away  to  cool.  Beat  the  egg  whites  very  ^iff,  and  fold  the  cold  apple 
sauce  into  them.  If  desired,  add  2  or  3  teaspoons  of  lemon  juice,  or 
sprinkle  a  little  nutmeg  or  cinnamon  on  top,  or  add  a  spoonful  of  whipped 
cream  to  each  serving. 


Apple  Upside^Down  Ca\e 


)4.  cup  butter  or  other  fat. 
3^  cup  sugar. 
1  egg- 

1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

13/2  cups  sifted  soft- wheat  flour. 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 


J4  teaspoon  salt. 

cup  milk. 
2  to  4  firni'fleshed  apples. 
2  teaspoons  cinnamon  mixed  with 

M  cup  sugar. 


Cream  the  fat,  add  the  sugar,  well'beaten  egg,  and  vanilla.  Sift  the 
dry  ingredients  together  and  add  alternately  with  the  milk  to  the  first 
mixture.  Spread  a  thick  coating  of  fat  on  the  bottom  and  sides  of  a  square 
or  oblong  baking  dish  or  a  very  heavy  pan.  Pare,  quarter,  and  slice  the 
apples,  thin,  spread  in  a  single  overlapping  layer  on  the  bottom  of  the 
baking  dish,  sprinkle  with  the  mixture  of  cinnamon  and  sugar,  and  add 
another  layer  of  apples  and  the  remaining  cinnamon  and  sugar.  Pour 
the  cake  mixture  over  the  apples.  The  batter  is  rather  thick  and  may 
need  to  be  smoothed  on  top  with  a  knife.  Bake  in  a  very  moderate  oven 
(300°  to  325°  F.)  for  45  minutes.  Loosen  the  sides  of  the  cake,  turn  it 
out  carefully,  upside  down,  and  the  top  will  be  covered  with  a  neat  layer 
of  transparent  apples.  Serve  hot  with  hard  sauce  or  whipped  cream. 


Apple  Tapioca 


cup  quick-cooking  tapioca. 
2  cups  boiling  water. 
Vi  cup  sugar. 
Vi  teaspoon  cinnamon. 


Vi  teaspoon  salt. 
Juice  of  1  lemon. 
3  pints  sliced  tart  apples. 


Add  the  boiling  water  to  the  tapioca  and  cook  in  a  double  boiler 
for  15  minutes,  or  until  the  tapioca  is  clear.  Add  the  sugar,  cinnamon, 
salt,  and  lemon  juice.  Arrange  the  apples  in  a  greased  shallow  baking 
dish  and  pour  the  tapioca  mixture  over  them.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
until  the  apples  are  tender  and  the  top  is  lightly  browned.  Serve  hot 
or  cold  with  plain  or  whipped  cream. 


RADIO     RECIPES  REVISED 


87 


Apricots  and  Prunes 

H  pound  dried  apricots.  1  cup  sugar. 

H  pound  dried  prunes.  Dash  of  salt. 

4  cups  water. 

Wash  the  prunes  and  apricots  thoroughly  and  put  them  in  the  water 
to  soak  overnight.  Cook  the  fruit  together  for  10  minutes,  add  the 
sugar  and  salt,  and  simmer  until  the  juice  is  fairly  rich.  Serve  hot  or 
cold. 


Apricot  Charlotte 


J4  pound  dried  apricots. 
Cold  water. 
1  tablespoon  gelatin. 
H  cup  sugar. 


ii  teaspoon  salt. 

1  pint  cream,  whipped. 

Lady  fingers  or  sponge  cake. 


Wash  the  apricots  and  soak  them  overnight  in  2  cups  of  cold  water. 
Cook  the  apricots  until  soft  in  the  water  in  which  they  were  soaked 
and  press  them  through  a  fine  sieve  or  colander.  Soften  the  gelatin  in 
onc'fourth  cup  of  cold  water  for  5  minutes,  add  to  the  hot  fruit  pulp, 
^ir  until  the  gelatin  has  dissolved,  add  the  sugar  and  salt,  chill,  and 
fold  in  the  whipped  cream.  Line  a  serving  dish  with  lady  fingers  or 
sHces  of  sponge  cake,  pile  the  apricot  mixture  lightly  in  the  center, 
and  chill  again  for  an  hour  or  more  before  serving. 


♦ 


Jellied  Apricots 

14  pound  dried  apricots.  1  cup  sugar. 

Cold  water.  Vs  teaspoon  salt. 

2  tablespoons  gelatin. 

Wash  the  apricots  and  soak  overnight  in  3  cups  of  cold  water.  In 
the  morning  simmer  the  apricots  for  10  to  15  minutes  in  the  water  in 
which  they  were  soaked,  drain,  and  to  the  hot  juice  add  the  gelatin, 
which  has  been  softened  in  one'half  cup  of  cold  water,  the  sugar,  and 
salt,  ^ir  until  dissolved,  and  set  aside  to  chill.  Cut  the  apricots  into 
small  pieces.  When  the  gelatin  mixture  has  partly  set,  ^ir  in  the 
apricots,  turn  into  a  mold,  and  chill  for  3  or  4  hours,  or  until  thor' 
oughly  set.  Turn  onto  a  plate  and  serve  with  whipped  cream,  and  a 
few  chopped  nuts  sprinkled  over  the  top.  If  preferred  the  mixture 
may  be  molded  in  cups  for  individual  servings. 


88 


AUNT  SAMMY'S 


Steamed  Apricot  Pudding 

j4  pound  dried  apricots.  2  eggs. 

V/i  cups  sifted  soft' wheat  flour.  2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

}4  cup  butter  or  other  fat.  M  teaspoon  salt. 

1^  cup  sugar.  cup  milk. 

Wash  the  apricots,  chop  fine,  and  mix  with  2  tablespoons  of  the  flour. 
Sift  the  remaining  flour  with  the  baking  powder  and  salt.  Cream  the 
fat,  add  the  sugar,  and  well-beaten  eggs,  and  add  alternately  with  the 
milk  to  the  sifted  dry  ingredients.  Stir  in  the  apricots.  Pour  into  a 
greased  mold,  cover,  and  ^eam  for  2  hours.  Serve  hot  with  hard  sauce. 

♦ 

Apricot  Tapioca 

pound  dried  apricots.  M  teaspoon  salt. 

3  cups  water.  Vt  cup  sugar. 

3  tablespoons  quick-cooking  tapioca. 

Wash  the  apricots  and  soak  them  overnight  in  the  water.  In  the 
morning  cook  the  apricots  until  tender  and  drain.  If  necessary,  add 
water  to  the  juice  to  make  2  cups,  ^ir  in  the  tapioca  and  salt,  and  cook 
in  a  double  boiler  for  15  minutes,  or  until  the  tapioca  is  clear.  Force  the 
apricots  through  a  sieve  and  add  the  pulp  and  the  sugar  to  the  tapioca. 
Chill  and  serve  with  plain  or  whipped  cream. 


Ba^ed  Bananas 

6  ripe  bananas.  2  tablespoons  lemon  juice. 

}4  cup  sugar.  J4  teaspoon  salt. 

2  tablespoons  melted  butter  or  other  fat. 

Selecft  ripe  bananas,  skin,  scrape  off  the  ^ringy  fibers,  and  split  in  half 
lengthwise.  Place  in  a  greased  shallow  baking  dish,  pour  over  them  the 
fat,  lemon  juice,  and  salt  which  have  been  mixed  together,  and  bake  in 
a  moderate  oven  for  20  to  25  minutes.  Serve  from  the  dish. 


Fried  Bananas 

6  ripe  bananas.  1  tablespoon  sugar. 

1  egg.  H  teaspoon  salt. 

K  cup  flour.  Dry  sifted  bread  crumbs. 

%  cup  milk.  Lemon  juice. 

Seled:  ripe  bananas,  remove  the  skin,  scrape  off  the  ^ringy  fibers,  and 
cut  the  bananas  in  half  lengthwise.  Dip  the  pieces  of  banana  into  the 
batter  made  from  the  egg,  flour,  milk,  sugar,  and  salt,  and  roll  them  in 
the  bread  crumbs.  Fry  the  bananas  until  golden  brown  in  shallow  fat, 
drain  on  paper,  keep  hot,  and  squeeze  lemon  juice  over  them  ju^  before 
serving. 


RADIO     RECIPES  REVISED 


89 


Ba}{ed  Bananas  and  Rhubarb 

2  quarts  rhubarb  cut  in  2'inch        1  cup  sugar. 

pieces.  J4  teaspoon  salt. 

4  ripe  bananas.  2  tablespoons  butter  or  other  fat. 

Seled;  tender  rhubarb,  wash  well,  and  cut  in  2'inch  pieces  without 
removing  the  red  skin.  Peel  and  scrape  the  bananas  and  split  length' 
wise.  In  a  greased  shallow  baking  dish,  place  a  layer  of  the  rhubarb, 
add  the  banana  halves,  and  then  the  remaining  rhubarb,  sprinkle  the 
salt  and  sugar  over  the  top,  dot  with  the  fat,  cover,  and  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  for  20  minutes,  or  until  the  fruit  is  tender.  Remove  the 
cover  and  continue  to  cook  for  30  minutes,  or  until  the  sirup  has 
thickened.  Serve  hot  or  cold. 

♦ 

Banana  Pudding 

1  quart  milk.  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

}4  cup  sugar.  Sweet  crackers  or  cookies. 

Vs  teaspoon  salt.  Bananas. 

4  or  5  eggs. 

Heat  the  milk,  sugar,  and  salt  in  a  double  boiler.  Beat  the  egg  yolks 
shghtly,  and  slowly  add  some  of  the  heated  milk.  Pour  back  into  the 
double  boiler,  and  ^ir  con^antly  until  the  cu^ard  coats  the  spoon. 
Remove  at  once  from  the  fire,  place  the  pan  in  a  bowl  of  cold  water,  and 
^ir  the  cu^ard  occasionally  as  it  cools.  Add  the  vanilla.  Grease  a 
baking  dish,  put  in  the  bottom  a  layer  of  sweet  crackers,  and  slice  over 
them  a  layer  of  banana.  Pour  over  this  some  of  the  cu^ard  and  fill  the 
dish  about  three-quarters  full  with  these  layers.  Make  a  meringue  of 
the  whites  of  the  eggs  and  1  tablespoon  of  sugar  to  each  egg.  Spread 
over  the  pudding  and  bake  for  about  20  minutes  in  a  very  moderate 
oven  (325°  F.)  until  lightly  browned.  Then  let  the  pudding  ^nd 
until  thoroughly  chilled  before  serving. 


Blach)yerry  Flummery 

2  cups  blackberry  juice,  from  can-  3  tablespoons  cornstarch. 

ned  or  cooked  fresh  blackberries.  K  teaspoon  salt. 

H  cup  sugar  (if  juice  is  unsweet'  2  tablespoons  lemon  juice. 

ened). 

Heat  the  blackberry  juice  in  a  double  boiler,  add  the  sugar,  corn' 
^arch,  and  salt  which  have  been  thoroughly  mixed,  ^ir  until  the 
mixture  thickens,  cover,  and  cook  for  15  to  20  minutes.  Remove  from 
the  ^ove,  add  the  lemon  juice,  beat  well,  and  pour  into  a  serving  dish, 
and  chill.  Serve  with  plain  or  whipped  cream. 


90 


AUNT  SAMMY'S 


Ba\ed  Blacl^erry  Pudding 

1  quart  blackberries.  1^4  cups  sifted  soft'wheat  flour. 

14  cup  butter  or  other  fat.  2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

3^  cup  sugar.  J4  teaspoon  salt. 

1  egg. 

Wash  the  berries,  drain,  and  spread  2  cups  of  them  out  in  a  single 
layer  to  dry  off.  Heat  the  remainder  of  the  berries  for  a  few  minutes, 
and  press  out  the  juice.  There  should  be  onc'half  cup  of  juice;  if  not, 
add  the  water  to  make  this  quantity.  Cream  the  fat,  add  the  sugar,  and 
the  well'beaten  egg.  Sift  the  dry  ingredients  together,  reserving  2 
tablespoons  of  flour  to  coat  the  berries,  and  add  alternately  with  the 
fruit  juice  to  the  fat,  sugar,  and  egg  mixture.  Fold  in  the  floured  fruit 
and  bake  in  a  well'greased  tube  pan  in  a  very  moderate  oven  (300°  to 
325°  F.)  for  1  hour  or  longer.  Serve  hot  or  cold  with  plain  or  whipped 
cream  or  hard  sauce. 

♦ 

Bluic}{  Blueberry  Pudding 

1  quart  blueberries.  2  cups  soft  bread  crumbs. 

1  cup  sugar.  2  tablespoons  melted  butter. 

}4  cup  water.  1  tablespoon  lemon  juice,  if  desired. 

''/i  teaspoon  salt. 

Pick  over  the  berries,  wash,  drain,  mix  with  the  sugar,  water,  and 
salt,  and  boil  for  5  minutes.  Combine  the  bread  crumbs  and  butter, 
add  to  the  hot  fruit,  ^ir  until  well  mixed,  and  let  ^and  on  the  back  of 
the  ^ove  for  about  30  minutes,  but  do  not  let  the  pudding  cook.  Add 
the  lemon  juice  and  serve  the  pudding  while  ^ill  warm  with  plain  or 
whipped  cream. 

♦ 


Bread  Pudding 

1  quart  milk.  2  tablespoons  butter. 

2  cups  dry  bread  crumbs.  1  cup  seedless  raisins, 
cup  sugar.  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

}4  teaspoon  salt.  3  eggs. 

Scald  the  milk,  bread  crumbs,  sugar,  salt,  and  butter  in  a  double 
boiler.  Pour  some  of  the  hot  mixture  into  the  beaten  eggs,  reserving 
2  whites  for  the  meringue.  Combine  all  the  other  ingredients,  pour 
into  a  greased  baking  dish,  and  set  in  a  pan  of  hot  water.  Bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  (350°  F.)  for  about  1  hour,  or  until  the  pudding  is  firm 
in  the  center.  When  the  pudding  has  partially  set,  ^ir  well  so  the 
raisins  will  be  through  the  pudding  rather  than  at  the  bottom  of  the 


RADIO 


RECIPES 


REVISED 


91 


dish.  To  make  the  meringue  add  2  tablespoons  of  sugar  to  each  well- 
beaten  egg  white,  and  add  a  dash  of  salt  and  vanilla.  Cover  the  pud' 
ding  with  the  meringue  and  put  in  a  very  moderate  oven  (about 
325°  F.)  for  15  to  20  minutes,  or  until  lightly  browned.  Serve  hot  or 
cold  garnished  with  bits  of  tart  red  jelly. 


Butterscotch  Pudding 

%  cup  flour.  teaspoon  salt. 

3  cups  milk.  2  or  3  eggs. 

VA  cups  brown  sugar.  14  teaspoon  vanilla. 

3  tablespoons  butter. 

Blend  the  flour  and  1  cup  of  the  cold  milk  until  smooth.  Heat  the 
remaining  milk  in  a  double  boiler,  pour  some  of  the  hot  milk  into  the 
flour  and  milk,  return  the  mixture  to  the  double  boiler,  stir  until 
thickened,  ccver,  and  cook  for  15  minutes.  Meantime,  cook  the  brown 
sugar,  butter,  2nd  salt  for  5  minutes  over  direct  heat  and  ^ir  constantly. 
Add  while  hot  to  the  mixture  in  the  double  boiler,  beat  well,  gradually 
^ir  this  mixture  into  the  beaten  eggs,  retuni  to  the  double  boiler, 
cook  for  a  few  minutes,  remove  from  the  fire,  add  the  vanilla,  and 
chill.  Serve  with  plain  or  whipped  cream. 


♦ 


Ija\&d  Caramel  Custard 

1  cup  sugar.  2  tablespoons  sugar. 

1  cup  water.  14  teaspoon  vanilla. 

1  quart  milk.  5  eggs. 

14  teacpccn  salt.  Butter. 

Melt  and  ^ir  the  cup  of  sugar  in  a  smooth  skillet  over  low  heat  until 
the  sugar  turns  a  rich  brown  coloi,  add  the  water,  continue  to  ^ir 
until  a  thick  caramel  sirup  has  formed,  and  remove  from  the  fire.  Heat 
the  milk  slightly,  add  the  salt,  2  tablespoons  of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of 
the  caramel  sirup,  and  vanilla,  and  ^ir  into  the  slightly  beaten  eggs 
until  well  mixed.  Butter  cu^ard  cups,  put  in  each  about  a  teaspoon 
of  the  caramel  sirup,  fill  with  the  cu^ard  mixture,  put  a  small  piece 
of  butter  on  top,  and  bake  on  a  rack  in  a  pan  of  hot  water  in  a  moderate 
oven  (350°  F.)  for  45  minutes,  or  until  set.  Test  by  inserting  the 
point  of  a  knife  in  the  center  of  the  cu:ftard.  If  it  comes  out  clean 
remove  the  cu^ard  at  once  from  the  hot  water.  When  cold  turn  out 
on  individual  plates,  and  the  caramel  sirup  in  the  bottom  of  the  cups 
will  run  down  over  the  cu^ard  like  a  sauce.  If  preferred  the  custard 
may  be  baked  in  a  ring  mold  and  the  caramel  sirup  mixed  with  whipped 
cream  and  served  as  a  sauce  in^ead  of  baked  with  the  cu^ard  in  the 
bottom  of  the  mold. 

39363°— 31  7 


92 


AUNT  SAMMY'S 


Chocolate  Custard 

2  squares  unsweetened  chocolate.  M  teaspoon  salt. 

1  quart  milk.  4  eggs. 

H  cup  sugar.  H  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Melt  the  chocolate  in  a  double  boiler,  add  the  milk,  sugar,  and  salt, 
and  while  they  are  heating  beat  the  eggs  slightly.  Pour  some  of  the  hot 
mixture  into  the  eggs,  mix  well,  add  to  the  other  ingredients  in  the  double 
boiler,  and  ^ir  con^antly  until  thickened.  When  cool,  ^ir  in  the  vanilla 
and  chill  thoroughly.  If  left  overnight  the  cu^ard  becomes  thicker. 
Serve  plain  or  with  whipped  cream  over  the  top. 


Chocolate  Ice-Box  Ca^e 

CHOCOLATE  CUSTARD  MIXTURE 

2  squares  unsweetened  chocolate.  4  eggs. 

1  pint  milk.  cup  butter. 

}4  cup  sugar.  M  teaspoon  vanilla, 

}4  teaspoon  salt. 

Melt  the  chocolate  in  a  double  boiler,  add  the  milk,  sugar,  and  salt. 
Beat  the  egg  yolks,  pour  over  them  the  hot  mixture,  return  this  combi' 
nation  to  the  double  boiler,  and  ^ir  con^antly  until  the  cu^ard  thickens. 
Remove  from  the  heat,  add  the  butter  and  vanilla,  beat  until  well  mixed, 
and  fold  this  cu^ard  mixture  into  the  ^ifHy  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs. 
Chill  before  pouring  over  the  sponge  cake  made  according  to  the  fol' 
lowing  recipe: 

SPONGE  CAKE 

4  eggs.  1  teaspoon  baking  powder. 

1  cup  sugar.  34  teaspoon  salt. 

3  tablespoons  cold  water.  14  teaspoon  vanilla. 

1  cup  sifted  soft'wheat  flour.  14  teaspoon  lemon  juice. 

Separate  the  egg  yolks  from  the  whites,  and  beat  the  yolks  well.  Grad' 
ually  beat  in  the  sugar,  add  the  water,  and  continue  the  beating  until 
the  mixture  is  very  thick  and  light.  Sift  the  dry  ingredients  together, 
and  fold  them  into  the  egg  and  sugar  mixture.  Then  fold  in  the  ^iffly 
beaten  whites  of  the  eggs,  add  the  flavoring,  and  bake  in  a  slightly 
greased  tube  pan  in  a  very  moderate  oven  (325°  F.)  for  45  to  50  minutes. 

When  the  cake  is  cool,  split  it  crosswise  into  three  sections,  beginning 
at  the  top.  Place  the  bottom  section  of  the  cake  in  the  tube  pan,  and  pour 
over  it  one^half  of  the  chocolate  cu^ard  mixture.  Then  put  the  next 
section  in  place,  pour  on  the  remainder  of  the  cu^ard,  cover  with  the 
top  layer,  and  chill  for  several  hours.  When  ready  to  serve  turn  onto  a 
platter  and  sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar,  or  fill  the  center  with  whipped 
cream. 


RADIO 


RECIPES 


REVISED 


93 


Chocolate  Bread  Pudding 

2  squares  unsweetened  chocolate.  2  cups  dry  bread  crumbs. 

H  cup  sugar.  2  eggs. 

1  quart  milk.  i4  teaspoon  vanilla, 

teaspoon  salt. 

Melt  the  chocolate  in  a  double  boiler,  add  milk,  sugar,  salt,  and  bread 
crumbs.  Beat  the  eggs,  add  the  hot  mixture  and  the  vanilla,  pour  into 
a  greased  baking  dish,  set  in  a  pan  of  hot  water,  and  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  (350°  F.)  for  about  one  hour,  or  until  the  pudding  is  firm  in  the 
center.  Serve  hot  with  plain  or  whipped  cream. 


Chocolate  Blanc  Mange 

2  squares  unsweetened  chocolate.  H  teaspoon  salt. 

1  quart  milk.  1  egg. 

54  cup  sugar.  K  teaspoon  vanilla. 
6  tablespoons  corn^arch. 

Melt  the  chocolate  in  a  double  boiler,  add  the  milk,  and  then  the 
sugar,  corn^arch,  and  salt,  which  have  been  thoroughly  mixed,  ^ir 
until  thickened,  cover,  and  cook  for  about  20  minutes.  Beat  the  egg 
until  light,  pour  the  hot  mixture  into  it,  add  the  vanilla,  beat  well, 
chill,  and  serve  with  soft  cu^ard  or  plain  or  whipped  cream. 


Coffee  Gelatin 

2  tablespoons  gelatin.  cups  hot  coffee. 

K  cup  cold  water.  Salt. 
yi  cup  sugar. 

Soften  the  gelatin  in  the  cold  water  for  5  minutes,  add  the  hot  coffee, 
sugar,  and  a  few  grains  of  salt,  and  ^ir  until  the  gelatin  and  sugar  have 
dissolved.  Pour  into  a  wet  mold,  and  put  in  a  cold  place  to  set.  Turn 
out  on  a  plate  and  serve  with  plain  or  whipped  cream. 


Steamed  Cranberry  Pudding 

2  cups  cranberries.  cup  butter  or  other  fat. 

VA  cups  sifted  soft'wheat  flour.  yi  cup  sugar. 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder.  2  eggs. 

}4  teaspoon  salt.  cup  milk. 

Pick  over,  wash,  and  dry  the  cranberries  and  roll  them  in  2  table' 
spoons  of  the  flour.  Sift  the  re^  of  the  flour  with  the  baking  powder 
and  salt.  Cream  the  fat,  add  the  sugar  and  well'beaten  eggs,  and  add 
to  the  dry  ingredients  alternately  with  the  milk.  Fold  in  the  cran' 
berries,  turn  into  a  buttered  mold,  cover,  and  ^eam  for  2  hours.  Serve 
hot  with  sauce  made  as  follows: 


94  AUNT  SAMMY'S 


SAUCE  FOR  STEAMED  CRANBERRY  PUDDING 

1  cup  sugar.  3  cups  boiling  water. 

3  tablespoons  corn^arch.  2  cups  cranberries. 

\i  teaspoon  salt.  2  to  4  tablespoons  butter. 

Mix  the  sugar,  corn^arch,  and  salt.  Add  2  cups  of  boiling  water, 
^ir  until  thickened,  cover  and  cook  for  10  minutes  in  a  double  boiler. 
Meanwhile,  cook  the  cranberries  with  1  cup  of  water  until  soft.  Press 
them  through  a  fine  sieve  and  add  this  pulp  to  the  corn^arch  mixture. 
Add  the  fat  and  serve  hot  over  the  hot  cranberry  pudding. 

♦ 

Fig  Vudi,di,mg 

\i  cup  butter  or  other  fat.  2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Yi  cup  sugar.  M  teaspoon  salt. 

1  egg.  Yi  cup  milk. 

IJ^  cups  sifted  soft-wheat  flour.         Yi  teaspoon  vanilla. 

2  cups  chooped  dried  figs. 

Cream  the  fat,  add  the  sugar  and  the  well-beaten  egg.  Take  out 
about  2  tablespoons  of  the  flour  and  mix  with  the  figs.  Sift  together 
the  remaining  flour  and  the  baking  powder  and  salt  and  add  alternately 
with  the  milk  to  the  fat  and  egg  mixture.  Stir  in  the  flour -coated  figs 
and  add  the  vanilla.  Bake  in  a  greased  baking  dish  for  about  1  hour  in  a 
moderate  oven  (350°  F.).  Serve  hot  with  lemon  sauce  or  hard  sauce 
to  which  a  little  lemon  juice  has  been  added. 


Vloatmg  Isiandi, 

1  quart  milk.  "4  teaspoon  salt. 

6  to  8  tablespoons  sugar.  1  teasooon  vanilk. 

4  to  6  eggs. 

Heat  the  milk,  sugar,  and  salt  in  a  double  boiler.  Separate  two  of  the 
egg  whites  and  put  them  aside  for  the  "islands."  Beat  the  re^  of  the 
eggs  together  slightly,  and  mix  in  some  of  the  hot  milk.  Pour  back  into 
the  double  boiler,  set  over  very  low  heat,  and  ^ir  con^antly  until  the 
cu^ard  coats  the  spoon.  Remove  at  once  from  the  heat,  and  set  in  a 
bowl  of  cold  water.  Add  the  vanilla. 

After  the  cu^ard  is  made,  beat  the  2  egg  whites  until  ^iff,  and  drop 
them  by  spoonfuls  on  a  pan  of  hot  water,  cover,  and  let  cook  for  a  few 
minutes.  Or,  make  small  baked  meringues  of  the  2  egg  whites  to  serve 
on  top  of  the  soft  cu^ard.  For  baked  meringues,  add  gradually  one-half 
cup  of  fine  granulated  sugar  to  2  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites  containing 
one-eighth  teaspoon  of  salt.  Beat  the  mixture  until  ^iff  enough  to  hold 
its  shape.  Flavor  with  one-fourth  teaspoon  of  vanilla.  Drop  rounded 
teaspoonfuls  of  the  mixture  on  oiled  paper  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven  (250° 
to  275°  F.)  for  about  1  hour.  Place  the  baked  meringues  on  top  of  the 
cu^ard  immediately  before  serving. 


RADIO 


RECIPES 


REVISED 


95 


Fruit  Cup 

Many  combinations  of  fruit,  fresh  or  canned,  may  be  used  for  fruit 
cup.  Use  colors  that  blend  or  contra^  pleasantly  and  combine  acid 
fruits  with  sweet,  and  firm  with  juicy  kinds.  Cut  large  fruits  into  small 
attractive  pieces,  mix  lightly  so  that  they  keep  their  shape,  sweeten 
slightly,  chill  before  serving,  and  garnish  the  individual  servings  with 
sprigs  of  mint  or  choice  bright'Colored  fruits.  Good  combinations  are : 
Strawberries,  oranges,  and  apples;  purple  grapes  with  seeds  removed, 
grapefruit,  and  apricots;  peaches,  raspberries,  and  pineapple;  water' 
melon,  honeydew  or  muskmelon,  and  oranges;  red  cherries,  pears,  and 
green  grapes. 

♦ 

Fruit  Punch 

4  cups  sugar.  2  quarts  freshly  made  strong  tea. 

3  cups  water.  H  teaspoon  salt. 

2  dozen  lemons.  1  quart  ginger  ale  or  carbonated 

1  dozen  oranges.  water. 

2  quarts  strawberry  juice,  bottled, 
or  2  quarts  crushed  fresh  fruit. 

Boil  the  sugar  and  water  together  to  make  a  heavy  sirup,  and  cool. 
Scrub  the  oranges  and  lemons,  and  squeeze  out  the  juice.  Barely  cover 
the  fruit  skins  with  water,  let  ^and  for  an  hour  or  longer,  pour  off  the 
water,  and  add  to  the  fruit  juice.  Add  the  other  fruits,  sirup,  and 
the  tea.  Just  before  serving,  add  chopped  ice,  the  ginger  ale  or  carbon' 
ated  water,  and  if  the  punch  is  too  strong,  ice  water  in  small  quantities 
until  the  punch  is  the  flavor  desired. 


Jellied  Fruit 

3  tablespoons  gelatin.  1  cup  pineapple  juice. 

Vz  cup  cold  water.  %  cup  lemon  juice. 

1  cup  boiling  water.  1  cup  orange  juice  and  pulp. 

^4  cup  sugar.  2  cups  sliced  canned  peaches. 

li  teaspoon  salt.  4  slices  canned  pineapple. 

1  cup  peach  juice.  2  bananas,  scraped  and  sliced. 

Soak  the  gelatin  in  the  cold  water  for  5  minutes,  add  the  boiling  water, 
sugar,  and  salt,  and  ^ir  until  dissolved.  When  cool  add  the  fruit  juices, 
place  this  mixture  in  a  bowl  surrounded  by  ice  water,  and  ^ir  now  and 
then.  As  it  begins  to  congeal,  wet  and  chill  a  mold,  and  put  in  a  thin 
layer  of  the  gelatin  mixture.  When  this  has  set,  arrange  a  portion  of  the 
sliced  fruit  in  the  mold  in  an  attractive  design.  Cut  the  remaining  fruit 
into  small  pieces,  combine  with  the  rest  of  the  gelatin  mixture,  fill  into 
the  mold,  and  chill  for  5  or  6  hours.  When  ready  to  serve,  invert  a  plate 
over  the  mold,  and  turn  it  upside  down.  Insert  a  knife  along  one  edge 
of  the  gelatin,  and  the  molded  mixture  will  slip  out  easily.  Serve  with 
plain  or  whipped  cream. 


96 


AUNT  SAMMY'S 


Jellied  Grapes 

2  tablespoons  gelatin.  2  tablespoons  lemon  juice. 

3^  cup  cold  water.  2  cups  grape  juice. 

1%  cups  boiling  water.  2  cups  seeded  Tokay  or  Malaga 

J4  cup  sugar.  grapes. 

}4  teaspoon  salt. 

Soften  the  gelatin  in  the  cold  water  for  5  minutes,  add  the  boiling 
water,  sugar,  and  salt,  and  ^ir  until  dissolved.  When  cool  mix  with 
the  lemon  and  grape  juice,  chill,  and  when  partly  set  ^ir  in  the  grapes, 
put  into  a  wet  mold,  let  ^tand  until  firm,  turn  out  on  a  plate,  and 
serve  with  whipped  cream. 

♦ 

Ba\ed  Indian  Pudding 

1  quart  milk.  H  cup  molasses. 

14  cup  yellow  cornmeal.  14  to  I  teaspoon  ginger. 

1  teaspoon  salt. 

Ckx)k  the  milk,  cornmeal,  and  salt  in  a  double  boiler  for  20  minutes. 
Add  the  molasses  and  ginger,  pour  into  a  greased  baking  dish,  and 
bake  in  a  very  moderate  oven  (about  300°  F.)  for  2  hours.  Serve  hot 
with  vanilla  ice  cream,  or  chill  and  serve  with  cream. 


Lemon  Sponge  with  Cuitard  Sauce 

2  tablespoons  gelatin.  Salt. 
1^  cup  cold  water.  M  cup  lemon  juice. 

2  cups  boiling  water.  3  egg  whites. 

1  cup  sugar. 

Soften  the  gelatin  in  the  cold  water  for  5  minutes.  Add  the  boiling 
water,  sugar,  and  a  few  grains  of  salt,  and  ^ir  until  dissolved.  Add 
the  lemon  juice,  chill,  and  when  the  mixture  begins  to  set,  beat  well, 
and  fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites.  Pour  into  a  wet  mold,  and 
put  in  a  cold  place  until  firm.  Turn  out  on  a  platter  and  serve  with 
cu^ard  sauce  made  from  the  egg  yolks,  as  follows: 

CUSTARD  SAUCE 

1  pint  milk.  3  egg  yolks. 

M  cup  sugar.  }^  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Salt. 

Heat  the  milk,  sugar,  and  a  few  grains  of  salt  in  a  double  boiler. 
Beat  the  egg  yolks  slightly,  add  some  of  the  heated  milk,  pour  back 
into  the  double  boiler,  and  ^ir  con^antly  until  the  cu^rd  coats  the 
spoon.  Remove  at  once,  add  the  vanilla,  place  the  pan  in  a  bowl  of 
cold  water,  and  ^ir  occasionally  until  cool. 


RADIO     RECIPES  REVISED 


97 


Orange  Bavarian  Cream 


2  tablespoons  gelatin. 
H  cup  cold  water. 
}4  cup  boiling  water. 
1  cup  sugar. 

4  to  5  tablespoons  lemon  juice. 


1    cups  orange  juice  and  pulp. 

3  egg  whites. 

}i  teaspoon  salt. 

1  pint  cream,  whipped. 


Soak  the  gelatin  in  the  cold  water  for  5  minutes,  add  the  boiling 
water  and  sugar,  and  ^ir  until  dissolved.  Add  the  lemon  and  orange 
juice  and  pulp,  chill  until  partially  set,  and  beat  until  foamy.  Beat 
the  whites  of  the  eggs  with  the  salt  until  ^iff  and  fold  into  the  gelatin 
mixture.  Then  fold  in  the  whipped  cream,  pour  into  a  wet  mold,  and 
put  in  a  cold  place  until  firm.  Turn  out  onto  a  platter,  and  garnish  with 
orange  seAions  if  desired. 


♦ 


Orange  Gelatin 

2  tablespoons  gelatin.  3  cups  drained  orange  juice. 

H  cup  cold  water.  Juice  of  1  lemon,  drained. 

1  cup  boiling  water.  Salt. 
1  cup  sugar. 

Soften  the  gelatin  in  the  cold  water  for  5  minutes,  add  the  boiling 
water,  sugar,  and  a  few  grains  of  salt,  and  ^tir  until  dissolved.  Mix 
with  the  drained  orange  and  lemon  juice,  pour  into  a  wet  mold,  and  put 
in  a  cold  place  until  firm.  Turn  out  and  serve  with  soft  cu^ard  or  plain 
or  whipped  cream. 


Peach  Bavarian  Cream 


2  tablespoons  gelatin.  1  cup  sugar. 

J4  cup  cold  water.  14  teaspoon  salt. 

1  quart  sliced  fresh  peaches.  1  pint  cream,  whipped. 


Soak  the  gelatin  in  the  cold  water  for  5  minutes.  Mash  the  peaches 
with  the  sugar,  rub  through  a  sieve,  and  simmer  for  5  minutes.  Remove 
from  the  fire,  add  the  softened  gelatin  and  salt,  and  ^ir  until  the  gelatin 
is  dissolved.  Chill,  and  when  the  mixture  begins  to  thicken,  fold  in  the 
whipped  cream.  Place  in  a  wet  mold,  let  ^nd  in  a  cold  place  yntil 
firm,  and  turn  out  on  a  serving  platter. 


98 


AUNT 


SAMMY'S 


Peach  Melha 


6  halves  large  peaches,  fresh  or 

canned. 
1  cup  peach  sirup. 


pints  vanilla  ice  cream. 
}i  cup  chopped  nuts. 


If  fresh  peaches  are  used,  prepare  a  thick  sirup  by  cooking  1  cup 
sugar,  threc'fourths  cup  water,  2  peaches  pared  and  sliced,  a  few  grains 
of  salt,  and  enough  red  coloring  matter  to  give  a  pinkish  tinge.  Strain 
and  cool  this  sirup.  If  the  peaches  are  canned,  drain  the  sirup  from 
them,  cook  it  down,  and  color  it  pink.  Put  a  spoonful  of  ice  cream  in 
the  hollow  of  each  peach,  pour  on  some  of  the  pink  sirup,  sprinkle  with 
chopped  nuts,  and  serve  at  once. 


Drain  halves  of  large  canned  peaches  from  the  sirup,  place  in  a  shallow 
baking  dish,  pit  side  up,  pour  over  them  a  small  quantity  of  melted 
butter,  and  add  a  very  little  salt.  Broil  under  a  flame  or  bake  in  the 
oven  until  the  peaches  are  hot  through  and  lightly  browned.  Serve  hot 
with  the  meat  course  or  as  dessert. 


Cook  the  tapioca  and  water  in  a  double  boiler  for  15  minutes,  add  the 
sugar,  butter,  salt,  and  lemon  and  peach  juice,  which  has  been  drained 
from  the  peaches.  In  a  greased  baking  dish,  make  alternate  layers  of  the 
tapioca  and  peaches  arranged  so  that  a  layer  of  the  peaches  comes  on 
top.  Bake  in  a  moderate  over  (350°  F.)  for  about  30  minutes,  or  until 
brown  on  top.  Serve  either  hot  or  cold  with  cream. 


Wash  the  pears,  cut  in  half,  core,  and  place  in  a  baking  dish.  Sprinkle 
with  sugar  and  a  little  salt,  dot  with  butter,  add  very  Httle  water, 
cover,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  (350°  F.).  As  soon  as  the  fruit 
becomes  soft,  remove  the  cover  so  that  the  sirup  will  cook  down.  Serve 
hot  or  cold  and  with  or  without  cream. 


Broiled  Canned  Peaches 


Peach  Tapioca 


M  cup  quick'cooking  tapioca. 

1  pint  hot  water. 

1  cup  sugar 

1  tablespoon  butter. 


3-5  teaspoon  salt. 

1  tablespoon  lemon  juice. 

1  cup  peach  juice. 

2  cups  shced,  canned  peaches. 


Ba\ed  Pears 


RADIO     RECIPES  REVISED 


99 


Fried  Pineapple 

Drain  slices  of  canned  pineapple  and  brown  them  very  slowly  in  a 
heavy  skillet  in  butter.  Serve  as  a  part  of  the  main  course. 


Pineapple  Upside-Down  Ca\e 

PINEAPPLE  MIXTURE 

14  cup  sugar.  2  tablespoons  pineapple  juice. 

2  tablespoons  butter.  3  slices  pineapple. 

Melt  the  sugar  in  a  skillet  over  moderate  heat,  allow  it  to  brown 
slightly,  and  ^ir  con^antly.  Add  the  butter  and  pineapple  juice  and 
cook  until  a  fairly  thick  sirup  is  formed.  Place  the  sedtions  of  pineapple 
in  the  sirup  and  cook  a  few  minutes,  or  until  they  are  Hght  brown,  and 
turn  occasionally.  Have  ready  a  well'greased  heavy  baking  pan  or  dish, 
place  the  pineapple  on  the  bottom,  and  pour  the  sirup  over  it.  Allow 
this  to  cool  so  it  will  form  a  semisolid  surface,  then  pour  in  the  following 
cake  batter: 

CAKE  BATTER 

l>i  cups  sifted  soft'wheat  flour. 
2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 
Ji  teaspoon  salt. 
yi  cup  milk. 

Cream,  the  fat,  add  the  sugar,  well'beaten  egg,  and  vanilla.  Sift  the 
dry  ingredients  together  and  add  alternately  with  the  milk  to  the  fir:ft 
mixture.  Pour  this  over  the  pineapple.  The  batter  is  rather  thick  and 
may  need  to  be  smoothed  on  top  with  a  knife.  Bake  in  a  very  moderate 
oven  (300°  to  325°  F.)  for  45  minutes.  Loosen  the  sides  of  the  cake, 
turn  it  out  carefully,  upside  down.  If  the  fruit  ^icks  to  the  pan,  lift  it 
out  and  place  it  on  the  cake.  Serve  with  whipped  cream  or  hard  sauce. 


14  cup  butter  or  other  fat. 

M  cup  sugar. 

iegg. 

1  teaspoon  vanilla. 


Plum  Pudding 


1  pound  beef  suet,  ground. 
1  pound  sugar. 
1  pound  flour. 

1  pound  seeded  raisins,  chopped. 
1  pound  seedless  raisins. 
M  pound  citron,  cut  fine. 
1  cup  pecan  nut  meats,  cut  fine. 
1  cup  English  walnut  meats,  cut 
fine. 


9  eggs. 

2  teaspoons  salt. 

4  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

6  teaspoons  cinnamon. 

4  teaspoons  cloves. 

4  teaspoons  mace. 

4  teaspoons  nutmeg. 

2  teaspoons  allspice. 

1  cup  cider. 


Mix  the  ground  suet  with  the  sugar.  Mix  the  fruit  and  nuts  with 
half  of  the  flour.  Beat  the  egg  yolks  and  whites  separately.  Add  the 


100 


AUNT  SAMMY'S 


yolks  to  the  suet  and  sugar,  then  the  fruit  and  the  nuts.  Sift  together 
twice  the  salt,  baking  powder,  spices,  and  remaining  flour.  Add  these 
ingredients  to  the  first  mixture,  alternately  with  the  cider.  Fold  in 
the  egg  whites  and  mix  well.  Grease  seven  No.  2  tin  cans  and  partly 
fill  with  the  pudding  mixture,  cover  loosely  with  the  can  tops  to  pre' 
vent  condensed  moi^ure  from  settling  on  the  pudding,  and  steam  for 
3  hours.  The  pudding  will  keep  for  weeks  if  the  cans  are  covered 
with  paper  or  with  the  loose  can  tops.  Before  serving  set  the  can  of 
pudding  on  a  rack  in  boiling  water  for  about  an  hour  to  heat  through, 
loosen  with  a  knife,  and  turn  out  on  a  platter. 

Hard  sauce  made  of  butter  and  sugar  creamed  together  is  good  with 
this  pudding.  If  a  hard  sauce  that  is  a  little  different  is  desired,  flavor 
with  the  grated  rind  of  an  orange.  Any  one  of  the  liquid  or  foamy 
sauces  is  also  suitable  with  plum  pudding.  Some  people  like  best  of 
all  to  serve  a  spoonful  of  vanilla  ice  cream  or  mousse  on  the  plate  with 
the  hot  pudding. 

♦ 


Jellied  Prunes 

14  pound  dried  prunes.  1  cup  sugar. 

Gold  water.  Vs  teaspoon  salt. 

2  tablespoons  gelatin.  14  cup  lemon  juice. 

Wash  the  prunes  and  soak  overnight  in  3  cups  of  cold  water.  In 
the  morning  simmer  the  prunes  for  10  to  15  minutes  in  the  water  in 
which  they  were  soaked,  drain,  and  to  the  hot  juice  add  the  gelatin, 
which  has  been  softened  in  one-half  cup  of  cold  water,  the  sugar,  and 
salt,  ^tir  until  dissolved,  and  set  aside  to  chill.  Cut  the  prunes  into 
small  pieces  and  discard  the  ^ones.  When  the  gelatin  mixture  has 
partly  set,  ^ir  in  the  prunes  and  lemon  juice  and  put  in  a  cold  place 
for  3  or  4  hours,  or  until  thoroughly  set.  Serve  with  plain  or  whipped 
cream. 


Spiced  Prunes 

1  pound  dried  prunes.  8  whole  allspice. 

1  quart  water.  8  whole  cloves. 

%  teaspoon  salt.  3  small  pieces  stick  cinnamon. 

1  cup  sugar.  U  cup  vinegar. 

Seled;  large  prunes,  wash  well,  and  soak  overnight  in  the  water. 
Add  the  sugar  and  spices,  tied  in  a  cheesecloth  bag,  and  simmer  for 
15  to  20  minutes.  Add  the  vinegar  and  cook  about  10  minutes  longer, 
or  until  the  sirup  is  fairly  thick. 


RADIO 


RECIPES 


REVISED 


101 


Creamy  Rice  Pudding 

1  tablespoon  uncooked  rice.  14  teaspoon  nutmeg  or  cinnamon. 

1  quart  milk.  yi  teaspoon  salt. 

14  cup  sugar. 

Wash  the  rice.  Add  the  other  ingredients.  Pour  the  mixture  into  a 
baking  dish.  Cookinavery  slow  oven  (250°  to  275°  F.)for2or  3  hours, 
and  ^ir  occasionally.  Double  the  quantity  of  rice  may  be  used  and 
then  the  pudding  does  not  require  such  long  cooking,  but  is  not  so 
creamy.  If  desired,  one'half  cup  raisins  may  be  added  and  the  sugar 
reduced  to  oncthird  cup. 

♦ 

Rhuharh  Betty 

4  tablespoons  melted  butter.  Cinnamon  or  nutmeg. 

14  teaspoon  salt.  1  quart  sweetened  rhubarb  sauce, 

1  quart  fine,  dry  bread  crumbs.  or  2  quarts  raw  sliced  rhubarb, 

sugar  to  sweeten. 

Mix  the  fat  and  salt  with  the  crumbs.  Place  the  rhubarb  and  the 
crumbs  in  alternate  layers  in  a  greased  baking  dish,  and  sift  the  cinna' 
mon  or  nutmeg  over  the  top.  Bake  the  pudding  in  a  moderate  oven. 
If  rhubarb  sauce  is  used,  this  will  require  about  20  minutes.  If  raw 
rhubarb  is  used,  cover  the  baking  dish  at  fir^  and  bake  for  25  minutes, 
or  until  the  rhubarb  is  tender.  Serve  the  pudding  hot  with  or  without 
hard  sauce. 

♦ 

Rhuharh  Tapioca 

1  quart  rhubarb  cut  in  small  pieces.  VA  cups  sugar. 

2  cups  hot  water.  H  teaspoon  salt. 
32  cup  quick-cooking  tapioca. 

Put  the  rhubarb,  water,  and  tapioca  in  the  upper  part  of  the  double 
boiler.  Cook  over  ^eam  for  15  minutes,  birring  frequently.  Add  the 
sugar  and  salt,  and  cook  about  5  minutes  longer,  or  until  the  tapioca  is 
clear  and  the  rhubarb  is  tender.  Chill  thoroughly  before  serving  with 
plain  or  whipped  cream. 

♦ 

Spanish  Cream 

1  tablespoon  gelatin.  14  teaspoon  salt. 

14  cup  cold  water.  4  or  5  eggs. 

1  quart  milk.  teaspoon  almond  extract, 

}'2  cup  sugar.  or  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Soak  the  gelatin  in  the  cold  water  for  5  minutes.  Heat  the  milk  in  a 
double  boiler,  and  add  to  it  the  sugar  and  the  salt.  Beat  the  egg  yolks, 
gradually  add  the  hot  milk  to  them,  mix  well,  pour  back  into  the  double 
boiler,  set  over  low  heat  and  cook  this  mixture  until  it  coats  a  spoon. 
Remove  it  from  the  fire,  add  the  softened  gelatin,  ^ir  well,  and  chill 


102 


AUNT  SAMMY'S 


until  partially  set.  Beat  the  cu^ard,  add  the  flavoring,  fold  in  the 
well'beaten  egg  whites,  pour  into  individual  molds  or  a  pudding  dish 
wet  with  cold  water,  and  set  away  to  become  firm.  Serve  with  cream 
or  with  crushed  fruit  sauce. 

♦ 

Strawberry  Ice-Box  Ca}{e 

1  tablespoon  gelatin.  1  tablespoon  lemon  juice. 

14  cup  cold  water.  1  cup  cream,  whipped. 

14  cup  boiling  water.  14  teaspoon  salt. 

IM  cups  sugar.  Sponge  cake. 
1  quart  Srawberries,  crushed. 

Soak  the  gelatin  in  the  cold  water  for  5  minutes.  Add  the  boiling 
water  and  the  sugar  and  ^ir  until  the  gelatin  and  sugar  are  dissolved. 
Mash  the  berries,  add  the  lemon  juice,  and  combine  with  the  gelatin 
mixture,  and  chill.  When  partially  set  fold  in  the  whipped  cream  to 
which  the  salt  has  been  added.  Chill  again,  then  spread  between  layers 
of  sponge  cake  and  keep  in  a  refrigerator  several  hours  or  overnight 
before  serving. 

♦ 

Strawberries  Supreme 

1  quart  selected  ripe  ^rawberries.         }4  teaspoon  salt. 

pint  double  cream.  H  cup  or  more  powaered  sugar. 

Wash  the  berries  well,  drain,  and  cap.  Whip  the  cream  until  Aiff, 
add  the  salt  and  sugar,  and  continue  the  whipping  until  all  are  well 
blended.  Fold  the  berries  carefully  without  crushing  them  into  the 
cream  until  each  berry  is  coated.  Serve  at  once.  If  the  berries  ^and 
after  combining  with  the  cream,  the  juice  is  likely  to  be  drawn  from 
them  and  the  cream  thinned. 


Spiced  Cider 

1  quart  sweet  cider.  8  short  pieces  ^ick  cinnamon. 

14  cup  sugar.  12  whole  cloves. 

}i  teaspoon  salt.  8  whole  allspice. 

Mix  all  the  ingredients,  bring  to  the  boiling  point,  cool,  and  let  ^and 
for  several  hours.  Reheat,  remove  the  whole  spices,  and  serve  hot  with 
sandwiches  or  cookies. 

♦ 

Spiced  Crape  Juice 

1  quart  grape  juice.  12  whole  cloves. 

H  cup  sugar.  ]4  teaspoon  salt. 

12  short  pieces  ^ick  cinnamon. 

Mix  all  the  ingredients,  bring  to  the  boiling  point,  cool,  and  let  ^and 
for  several  hours.  When  ready  to  serve,  reheat,  remove  the  spices,  and 
add  lemon  juice  if  desired.  Serve  hot  with  sandwiches  or  cookies. 


RADIO     RECIPES  REVISED 


103 


Pies  and  Other  Pastries 
♦ 

Plain  Pie  Cru^ 

IH  cups  sifted  soft'wheat  flour.  5  or  6  tablespoons  fat. 

1  teaspoon  salt.  About  2ja  tablespoons  water. 

Mix  the  flour  and  salt  and  work  in  the  fat  with  the  tips  of  the  fingers 
or  a  fork  or  biscuit  cutter.  When  the  flour  and  fat  are  "grainy,"  add 
the  water  slowly,  and  use  no  more  than  absolutely  necessary  to  make  a 
^tifF  dough.  On  a  lightly  floured  board  roll  out  a  little  more  than  half 
the  dough  into  a  thin  sheet  large  enough  to  line  the  pie  pan.  Pat  the 
sheet  of  dough  very  Hghtly  into  the  pan  so  there  will  be  no  air  bubbles 
underneath,  put  in  the  pie  filling,  and  moi^en  the  rim  of  the  dough. 
Roll  out  the  dough  for  the  upper  cru^,  allowing  about  a  half  inch  extra 
around  the  edge.  Fold  the  sheet  of  dough  in  half,  make  a  few  slashes 
through  both  thicknesses  near  the  center,  lift  onto  the  pie,  and  spread 
out  over  the  filling.  Press  lightly  around  the  edge  of  the  pan,  and  if  the 
filling  is  juicy  allow  enough  dough  to  fold  under  well.  Lift  the  pan  up 
and  trim  off  the  surplus  dough,  holding  the  knife  slantwise  underneath 
the  pan.  With  the  tines  of  the  fork,  press  the  rim  lightly  down  to  the 
pan,  and  the  pie  is  ready  to  bake. 

If  the  undercru^  is  to  be  baked  before  the  filling  is  added,  as  with 
berries  and  other  juicy  fruits  and  cu^ard  mixtures,  line  the  pie  pan 
with  the  dough  as  directed,  in  cutting  off  the  surplus  dough  leave  a 
generous  turn'over  around  the  rim,  prick  the  dough  every  two  or  three 
inches  over  the  bottom  and  sides,  and  bake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven 
(400°  F.)  for  10  minutes,  or  until  the  cru^  is  delicately  browned.  Or 
in^ead  of  pricking  the  dough,  put  another  slightly  smaller  pie  pan  on 
top  of  the  dough  after  it  is  fitted  into  the  pan,  and  remove  after  it  has 
been  in  the  oven  for  5  minutes,  so  that  the  pa^ry  will  brown  delicately. 
If  the  pie  is  to  have  an  upper  cru^,  moi^en  the  rim  of  the  baked  lower 
cru^  before  adding  the  too  sheet  of  dough  and  tuck  it  well  over  the 
edge. 


Apple  Pie 

4  to  6  tart  apples.  H  teaspoon  cinnamon. 

Paltry.  14  teaspoon  salt. 

M  cup  sugar.  2  tablespoons  butter. 

Pare,  core,  and  slice  the  apples.  Line  a  deep  pie  pan  with  pa^ry, 
spread  a  layer  of  apples  over  the  bottom,  sprinkle  with  a  mixture  of  the 
sugar,  cinnamon,  and  salt,  dot  with  butter,  and  repeat  until  all  are  used. 


104  AUNT  SAMMY'S 


Add  the  top  sheet  of  paltry.  (See  Plain  Pie  Cruil.)  Put  the  pie  in  a 
moderately  hot  oven  (400°  F.)  for  10  minutes,  lower  the  temperature 
to  more  moderate  heat  (375°  F.),  and  bake  the  pie  for  30  to  35  minutes, 
or  until  the  apples  are  tender  and  the  cru^  is  golden  brown. 

♦ 

Apple  Pie  with  Melted  Cheese 

After  an  apple  pie  is  baked,  lay  thin  slices  of  cheese  or  grated  cheese 
over  the  top,  and  put  in  a  very  moderate  oven  (325°  F.)  until  the  cheese 
is  melted.  Serve  at  once  while  the  cheese  is  warm.  Either  a  freshly 
baked  or  a  cold  pie  may  be  prepared  in  this  way. 


Apple  Turnovers 

Roll  out  pa^ry  dough  into  rounds  about  the  size  of  a  large  saucer. 
On  one'half  of  the  pa^ry  round,  arrange  layers  of  thinly  sliced  apples, 
sprinkle  with  a  mixture  of  sugar,  cinnamon,  and  a  Httle  salt,  and  dot 
with  butter.  Moi^en  the  lower  rim  of  the  pa^ry,  bring  the  other 
part  over  it,  press  the  two  edges  firmly  together  with  the  tines  of  a 
fork,  and  prick  the  top  cru^  so  the  ^eam  can  escape.  Bake  in  a  moder' 
ately  hot  oven  (375°  to  400°  F.)  for  about  20  minutes,  or  until  the 
apples  are  tender. 


Butterscotch  Cream  Pie 

1  pint  milk.  2  tablespoons  butter. 

M  cup  flour.  2  eggs. 

}4  teaspoon  salt.  H  teaspoon  vanilla. 

1  cup  brown  sugar.  Pa^ry. 

Heat  the  milk  in  a  double  boiler,  reserving  one'half  cup  to  mix  with 
the  flour  and  salt.  Add  this  to  the  hot  milk,  ^ir  until  thickened, 
cover,  and  cook  in  the  double  boiler  for  15  minutes.  Meantime  cook 
and  ^ir  the  brown  sugar  and  butter  for  5  minutes,  and  add  to  the 
thickened  milk.  Stir  this  hot  mixture  slowly  into  the  beaten  egg 
yolks,  add  the  vanilla,  and  beat  well.  Pour  the  filling  into  a  baked 
pa^ry  shell  (see  Plain  Pie  CruSt),  let  ^tand  for  a  few  minutes,  and  cover 
with  a  meringue  made  by  adding  4  tablespoons  of  sugar  and  a  few 
grains  of  salt  and  a  drop  or  two  of  vanilla  to  the  beaten  egg  whites. 
Spread  over  the  top  of  the  filling  to  the  edge  of  the  cru^  and  bake  in 
a  very  moderate  oven  (325°  F.)  for  15  to  20  minutes,  or  until  the 
meringue  is  a  light  brown. 

This  butterscotch  cream  filling  is  also  good  served  as  a  pudding  with 
cream,  or  it  may  be  used  as  a  filling  for  cream  puffs  or  tarts. 


RADIO     RECIPES     REVISED  105 


Cheese  Straws 

^2  cup  sifted  flour.  1  tablespoon  butter  or  other  fat. 

1  teaspoon  baking  powder.  1  cup  soft  bread  crumbs. 

H  teaspoon  salt.  2  tablespoons  milk. 

yi  teaspoon  paprika.  1  cup  grated  cheese. 

Sift  the  flour,  baking  powder,  salt,  and  paprika  together.  Rub  in 
the  shortening  with  the  finger  tips.  Add  the  bread  crumbs,  milk, 
and  cheese,  and  mix  thoroughly.  Roll  to  oncfourth  inch  thick  on  a 
floured  board.  Cut  in  narrow  ^rips  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
(about  350°  F.)  for  20  minutes,  or  until  golden  brown. 


Cherry  Pie 

4  cups  tart,  juicy,  pitted  cherries.        2  tablespoons  butter. 
2  tablespoons  cornSarch.  %  teaspoon  salt. 

1  cup  sugar.  Pa^ry. 

Simmer  the  cherries  for  5  minutes,  and  drain.  When  the  juice  has 
cooled  mix  the  corn^arch  with  it,  cook  until  thickened,  add  the  cher' 
ries,  sugar,  butter,  and  salt,  and  mix  thoroughly.  Pour  the  hot  fruit 
mixture  into  a  baked  pa^ry  shell,  add  the  top  sheet  of  dough  (see 
Plain  Pie  Cruit),  and  bake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven  (375°  to  400°  F.) 
for  25  to  30  minutes,  or  until  golden  brown.  Cherry  pie  made  in  this 
way  should  have  a  crisp  under  cru^.  In  place  of  the  upper  cru^, 
twined  ^rips  of  dough  may  be  laid  in  lattice  fashion  across  the  fruit 
and  pressed  onto  the  lower  cru^  at  the  rim. 


♦ 


Chocolate  Pie 

2  squares  unsweetened  chocolate.  2  eggs. 

1  pint  milk.  1  tablespoon  butter. 

3  tablespoons  flour.  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 
%  cup  sugar.  Paltry. 

a  teaspoon  salt. 

Heat  the  chocolate  and  milk  in  a  double  boiler.  Mix  the  flour,  sugar, 
and  salt  thoroughly,  add  some  of  the  hot  liquid,  mix  well,  and  return  to 
the  double  boiler.  Stir  until  thickened,  cover,  and  cook  for  15  minutes. 
Beat  well.  Pour  some  of  this  into  the  beaten  egg  yolks,  combine  with 
the  re^  of  the  mixture,  and  add  the  butter  and  vanilla.  Pour  into  a 
baked  pie  cru^  (see  Plain  Pie  CrvM)  and  let  ^and  while  making  the 
meringue.  Beat  the  egg  whites,  and  add  4  tablespoons  sugar  and  a  few 
grains  of  salt  and  a  drop  or  two  of  vanilla.  Spread  over  the  chocolate 
fiUing  to  the  edge  of  the  cru^,  and  bake  in  a  very  moderate  oven 
(325°  F.)  for  15  to  20  minutes,  or  until  Ughtly  browned.  Serve  cold  so 
that  the  filling  has  time  to  set. 


106 


AUNT  SAMMY'S 


Cream  Pie 

1  pint  milk  or  thin  cream.  2  eggs. 

4  tablespoons  flour.  2  tablespoons  butter  if  milk  is  used. 
M  cup  sugar.  teaspoon  vanilla. 

M  teaspoon  salt.  PaStry. 

Heat  the  milk  or  cream  in  a  double  boiler.  Mix  the  flour,  sugar,  and 
salt  thoroughly.  Pour  some  of  the  hot  liquid  into  this,  mix  well,  and 
return  to  the  double  boiler.  Stir  until  thickened,  cover,  and  cook  for  15 
minutes.  Beat  well.  Pour  some  of  this  mixture  into  the  beaten  egg 
yolks,  and  add  to  the  re^  of  the  mixture  with  the  butter  and  vanilla. 
Pour  into  a  baked  pie  cru^  (see  Flain  Pie  Cruit)  and  let  ^and  for  a  few 
minutes.  In  the  meantime  make  a  meringue  from  the  beaten  egg  whites, 
4  tablespoons  sugar,  and  a  few  grains  of  salt  and  a  drop  or  two  of 
vanilla.  Spread  over  the  pie  filling  to  the  edge  of  the  cru^  and  bake  in 
a  very  moderate  oven  (325°  F.)  for  15  to  20  minutes,  or  until  lightly 
browned. 

To  make  a  banana  cream  pie,  add  sliced  bananas  to  the  cu^ard  mix' 
ture  after  it  is  cooked,  cover  with  the  meringue,  and  bake  in  the  usual 
way. 

♦ 

Cream  Puffs 

14  cup  butter.  }4  teaspoon  salt. 

1  cup  hot  water.  4  eggs. 

1  cup  flour. 

Add  the  butter  to  the  hot  v/ater,  bring  to  the  boiling  point,  and  add 
the  flour  and  salt,  all  at  one  time.  Stir  rapidly  and  con^antly  until  the 
pa^e  leaves  the  sides  of  the  pan.  Remove  from  the  fire  and  when  cool 
beat  in  the  eggs  one  at  a  time  until  thoroughly  blended  with  the  pa^e 
mixture.  Drop  by  spoonfuls  about  2  inches  apart  on  a  greased  inverted 
baking  pan,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  (400°  F.)  until  puffed  and  golden 
brown.  When  cool  cut  and  fill  the  lower  sections  with  seasoned  whip' 
ped  cream  or  cu^ard,  put  the  tops  in  place,  and  sprinkle  with  powdered 
sugar. 

CUSTARD  FILLING  FOR  CREAM  PUFFS 

1  cup  cream  or  rich  milk.  2  egg  yolks. 

2  tablespoons  cornstarch.  J--2  teaspoon  vanilla. 

2  tablespoons  sugar.  2  tablespoons  butter. 

}4  teaspoon  salt. 

Heat  the  cream  or  milk  in  a  double  boiler.  Mix  the  cornstarch,  sugar, 
and  salt,  add  the  heated  cream  or  milk,  return  to  the  double  boiler,  ^ir 
until  thickened,  cover,  and  cook  for  10  to  15  minutes.  Pour  some  of  the 
hot  mixture  slowly  into  the  well'beaten  egg  yolks,  mix  all  together,  add 
the  butter  and  vanilla,  and  beat  well.  When  cool,  use  as  the  filling  for 
the  puffs. 


RADIO     RECIPES  REVISED 


107 


Sour  Cream  Pie 

1  cup  sugar.  1  cup  sour  cream. 
14  teaspoon  cinnamon.  J  s  teaspoon  salt. 

H  teaspoon  cloves.  2  tablespoons  vinegar. 

2  eggs.  Pastry. 
1  cup  seedless  raisins. 

Mix  the  sugar  and  spices,  add  to  the  beaten  eggs  with  the  raisins, 
cream,  salt,  and  vinegar,  and  beat  well.  Pour  the  mixture  into  a  deep, 
pastry-hned  pie  pan,  add  the  top  sheet  of  dough  (see  Plain  Pie  Cruil), 
and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  (350°  F.)  until  the  crust  is  golden  brown. 


Custard  Pie 

IH  cups  milk.  3  eggs. 

14  cup  sugar.  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Ys  teaspoon  salt.  Pastry. 

Scald  the  milk,  sugar,  and  salt  in  a  double  boiler,  remove  from  the  fire, 
and  add  slowly  to  the  slightly  beaten  eggs  and  vanilla.  Pour  the  hot 
cu^ard  into  a  deep  baked  pie  cru^  (see  Plain  Pie  Cru£t),  and  be  careful 
not  to  fill  it  too  full.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  (350°  F.)  for  about  25 
minutes,  or  until  the  cu^ard  is  set  in  the  center. 


Lemon  Pie 

4  tablespoons  corn^arch.  yi  lemon  rind,  grated. 

1  cup  sugar.  1  tablespoon  butter. 

H  teaspoon  salt.  3  eggs. 

13^  cups  cold  water.  PaSry. 
4  tablespoons  lemon  juice. 

Mix  the  corn  ^arch,  sugar,  and  salt  in  the  upper  part  of  a  double  boiler. 
Add  the  water,  ^ir,  and  cook  over  diredt  heat  until  thickened.  Place  in 
the  lower  part  of  the  boiler,  cover,  and  cook  for  15  minutes.  Beat  the 
egg  yolks,  pour  into  them  a  small  quantity  of  the  hot  mixture,  and  return 
to  the  double  boiler.  Cook  for  a  few  minutes,  and  add  the  butter  and 
lemon  juice  and  rind.  Beat  and  pour  into  a  baked  pie  cru^  (see  Plain 
Pie  Cruil)  and  let  ^and  for  a  few  minutes.  Make  a  meringue  from  the 
beaten  egg  whites,  6  tablespoons  sugar,  and  a  few  grains  of  salt  and  a 
few  drops  of  vanilla.  Spread  over  the  top  of  the  filling  to  the  edge  of  the 
cru^  and  bake  in  a  very  moderate  oven  (325°  F.)  for  15  to  20  minutes, 
or  until  lightly  browned.  Serve  cold,  so  that  the  fiUing  has  time  to  set. 

39363°— Jl  8 


108 


AUNT  SAMMY'S 


lAincemeat 

2  pounds  lean  beef.  2  teaspoons  nutmeg. 

1  pound  finely  chopped  suet.  1  teaspoon  cloves. 
4  pounds  tart  apples.  1  teaspoon  allspice. 
}i  pound  chopped  citron.  1  tablespoon  salt. 

3  pounds  sugar.  1  pint  cider. 

3  pounds  currants.  1  pint  canned  fruit  juice. 

2  pounds  raisins.  2  oranges,  juice  and  1  rind. 
2  teaspoons  cinnamon.  2  lemons,  juice  and  1  rind. 
2  teaspoons  mace. 

Simmer  the  beef  in  a  small  quantity  of  water  until  tender,  drain,  cool, 
chop,  and  mix  with  the  beef  broth.  Pare,  core,  and  chop  the  apples,  and 
carefully  pick  over,  wash,  and  drain  the  dried  fruit.  Mix  all  the  ingrc 
dients  except  the  oranges  and  lemons.  Cook  for  about  1  hour  in  a  pre' 
serving  kettle  over  low  heat  with  an  asbe^os  mat  underneath,  and  ^ir 
frequently  to  prevent  scorching.  Add  the  grated  rind  and  juice  of  the 
oranges  and  lemons  and  mix  well.  Store  in  stone  jars  and  keep  in  a  cold 
place.  If  the  mincemeat  becomes  too  dry,  add  more  cider  or  canned  fruit 
juice.  ^ 

Peach  or  Apple  Dumplings 

Roll  out  pa^ry  dough  in  rounds  about  the  size  of  fruit  plates.  In  the 
center  of  each,  place  a  whole  peeled  peach,  or  a  pared  and  cored  apple. 
Sprinkle  the  apple  with  a  mixture  of  sugar,  cinnamon,  and  a  few  grains 
of  salt.  Dot  the  fruit  with  butter,  and  lift  up  and  press  together  the 
edges  of  the  dough.  Place  in  greased  muffin  tins  and  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  (350°  to  375°  F.)  for  30  minutes.  Serve  hot  with  hard  or  liquid 
sauce.  ^ 

Pineapple  Pie 

1  No.  2  can  crushed  pineapple.  2  tablespoons  butter. 

2  tablespoons  cornstarch.  teaspoon  salt. 
K  cup  sugar. 

Drain  the  juice  from  the  pineapple.  Mix  the  corn^arch,  sugar,  and 
salt,  ^ir  into  the  juice,  and  cook  until  thickened.  Combine  with  the 
fruit  and  add  the  butter.  Pour  into  a  pa^ry  lined  tin,  moi^en  the  rim, 
and  lay  twined  ^rips  of  pa^ry  across  lattice  fashion.  Bake  in  a  mod' 
erately  hot  oven  (375°  to  400°  F.)  for  20  to  25  minutes,  or  until  the 
cru^  is  brown.  ^ 

Pump\in  or  Squash  Pie 

V/i  cups  cooked  pumpkin  or  squash.  teaspoon  mace. 

1  cup  milk.  teaspoon  salt. 

14  cup  sugar.  2  eggs. 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon.  2  tablespoons  butter. 

H  teaspoon  allspice.  Pastry. 

Heat  the  pumpkin  or  squash,  milk,  sugar,  spices,  and  salt  in  a  double 
boiler,  add  the  beaten  eggs  and  butter,  and  mix  well.  Pour  the  hot 


RADIO 


RECIPES 


REVISED 


109 


filling  into  a  deep  baked  pa^ry  shell  (see  Plain  Pie  Cruit),  and  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  (350°  F.)  about  30  minutes,  or  until  the  filling  sets. 

♦ 

Rhuharh  Pie 

4  cups  raw,  sliced  unskinned  rhu-  1  cup  sugar, 

barb.  14  teaspoon  salt. 

1  tablespoon  water.  2  tablespoons  butter. 

2  tablespoons  cornstarch.  Pa^ry. 

Simmer  the  rhubarb  and  water  for  a  few  minutes  and  drain.  When 
the  juice  has  cooled  add  the  corn^arch,  which  has  been  mixed  with  the 
sugar  and  salt,  and  cook  until  thickened.  Add  the  rhubarb  and  butter 
and  mix  thoroughly.  Pour  the  hot  fruit  mixture  into  a  baked  pa^ry 
shell,  add  the  top  sheet  of  dough  (see  Plain  Pie  Cruit)  and  bake  in  a 
moderately  hot  oven  (375°  to  400°  F.)  for  25  to  30  minutes,  or  until 
golden  brown. 


Sweet  potato  Pie 


114  cups  boiled,  riced,  sweet-  teaspoon  salt. 

potatoes.  2  eggs. 

2  cups  milk.  2  tablespoons  butter. 

}4  cup  sugar.  Pa^ry. 
i4  teaspoon  ginger. 

Heat  the  sweetpotatoes,  milk,  sugar,  ginger,  and  salt  in  a  double 
boiler.  Pour  some  of  the  hot  mixture  into  the  beaten  eggs,  mix  all 
together,  and  add  the  butter.  Pour  the  hot  filling  into  a  deep  baked 
pa^ry  shell  (see  Plain  Pie  CrvM),  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  (350°  F.) 
for  about  30  minutes,  or  until  the  filling  sets. 


Green  Tomato  Pie 

6  medium-sized  green  tomatoes.  14  teaspoon  salt. 

2  tablespoons  water.  K  teaspoon  cinnamon. 

H  lemon,  sliced.  2  tablespoons  butter. 

2  tablespoons  cornstarch.  Pa^y. 
1  cup  sugar. 

Wash  the  tomatoes,  remove  ^em  and  blossom  end,  and  cut  into  thin 
shces.  Cook  the  tomato,  water,  and  lemon  until  the  tomatoes  are 
almo^  tender  and  drain.  When  the  tomato  liquid  has  cooled  add  the 
corn^arch,  which  has  been  mixed  with  the  sugar  and  salt,  and  cook 
until  thickened.  Add  the  tomatoes,  cinnamon,  and  butter,  and  mix 
thoroughly.  Pour  the  hot  mixture  into  a  baked  pa^ry  shell,  add  the 
top  sheet  of  dough  (see  Plain  Pie  Cruit)  and  bake  in  a  moderately  hot 
oven  (375°  to  400°  F.)  for  about  30  minutes,  or  until  golden  brown. 


110 


AUNT  SAMMY'S 


Cakfs,  Cookies,  and  Frostings 


Angel  Food  Ca\e 

1  cup  sifted  soft-wheat  flour.  1  cup  egg  whites  (8  to  10). 

IH  cups  sugar.  1  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar. 

}i  teaspoon  salt.  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Sift  together,  four  or  five  times,  the  flour,  sugar,  and  one 'half  the  salt. 
Beat  the  egg  whites  with  the  other  half  of  the  salt  until  frothy,  add  the 
cream  of  tartar,  and  beat  until  they  are  light  but  not  dry.  Fold  the  dry 
ingredients  very  carefully  into  the  beaten  egg  whites.  When  the  mix' 
ture  is  partly  blended,  add  the  vanilla.  Be  very  careful  when  blending 
the  dry  ingredients  and  the  eggs  to  use  only  the  folding  motion,  for  if 
the  mixture  is  birred  the  air  will  be  released  and  the  cake  will  not  be 
light.  Bake  in  an  ungreased  tube  pan  in  a  very  moderate  oven  (325°  F.) 
for  1  hour.  When  the  cake  is  taken  from  the  oven  invert  the  pan  on  a 
rack,  and  let  the  cake  drop  out  itself. 


Applesauce  Ca\e 

14  cup  fat.  214  cups  sifted  flour. 

1  cup  sugar.  3^  teaspoon  cloves. 

1  cup  unsweetened,  thick,  smooth  H  teaspoon  cinnamon. 

apple  sauce.  H  teaspoon  nutmeg. 

1  teaspoon  soda.  H  teaspoon  salt. 
1  cup  chopped  raisins. 

'  Cream  the  fat  and  sugar  together,  add  the  apple  sauce.  Mix  the  rai' 
sins  with  onchalf  cup  of  the  flour,  sift  the  re^  with  the  spices,  soda, 
and  salt,  and  add  the  dry  ingredients  to  the  liquid  mixture.  Beat  well, 
pour  into  a  greased  pan,  and  bake  in  a  very  moderate  oven  (300°  to 
325°  F.)  for  about  1  hour. 


Bread^Crumh  Ca\e 

3  eggs.  }4  teaspoon  cinnamon. 

1  cup  sugar.  M  teaspoon  salt. 

2  cups  crumbs,  from  very  dry  M  teaspoon  almond  extract. 
oven'toaSted  bread.  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Beat  the  eggs,  add  the  sugar,  and  ^ir  in  the  other  ingredients.  Pat 
the  mixture  evenly  into  a  shallow  greased  pan,  bake  in  a  very  moderate 
oven  (300°  F.)  for  about  30  minutes.  This  has  somewhat  the  texture 
and  flavor  of  macaroons  and  is  a  good  way  to  use  up  stale  bread. 


'  Home  Baking,  Farmers'  Bulletin  1450,  U.  S.  Department  of  Agriculture,  gives  recipes  for  the  ^ndard  ways 
of  baking  cakes  and  cookies. 


RADIO     RECIPES  REVISED 


111 


Caramel  or  Burnt-Sugar  Cup  Ca\es 

1  cup  sugar  and  1  cup  hot  water,  3  cups  sifted  soft-wheat  flour, 
for  caramel  sirup.                            4  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

H  cup  butter  or  other  fat.  J4  teaspoon  salt. 

I'A  cups  sugar.  1  cup  water. 

2  eggs. 

Melt  and  brown  the  cup  of  sugar  very  slowly  in  a  smooth  skillet,  add 
the  cup  of  hot  water,  cook  until  a  thick  sirup  is  formed,  and  cool.  Cream 
the  fat  and  sugar  together,  add  the  beaten  egg  yolks,  and  beat  well.  Sift 
together  the  dry  ingredients,  add  to  the  fir^  mixture  alternately  with  the 
water  and  4  tablespoons  of  the  caramel  sirup,  and  fold  in  the  beaten  egg 
whites.  Bake  in  greased  muffin  pans  in  a  moderately  hot  oven  (375°  F.) 
25  to  30  minutes  and  ice  with  caramel'flavored  fro^ing. 


^uic\  Coffee  Ca\e 

2  cups  sifted  flour.  '  2  cup  cut  citron  or  other  candied 

3  teaspoons  baking  powder.  fruit. 

2  tablespoons  sugar.  ;  2  cup  raisins,  chopped. 

}'2  teaspoon  salt.  }4  cup  chopped  nuts. 

4  tablespoons  butter  or  other  fat.  1  teaspoon  cinnamon  mixed  with 
yi  cup  inilk.  2  tablespoons  sugar. 

Sift  together  the  flour,  baking  powder,  sugar,  and  salt,  saving  out  2 
tablespoons  of  flour  to  mix  with  the  fruit.  Cut  in  the  fat  with  a  biscuit 
cutter,  and  add  the  milk  and  floured  fruit.  In  a  greased  pan,  pat  the 
dough  down  until  it  is  about  1 or  2  inches  thick,  and  bake  for  35  to  40 
minutes  in  a  moderate  oven  (350°  F.).  When  done,  butter  the  top  and 
sprinkle  over  it  a  mixture  of  the  chopped  nuts,  cinnamon,  and  sugar. 
Place  the  cake  in  the  oven  again  and  let  it  remain  until  the  sugar  begins 
to  melt.  Serve  hot  or  cold. 


DeviVs  Food  Ca}{e 

14  cup  butter  or  other  fat.  'yi  teaspoon  salt. 

1  cup  sugar.  1  cup  milk. 

2  eggs.  2  squares  unsweetened  chocolate. 
1 H  cups  sifted  soft'wheat  flour.  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Cream  the  butter  and  the  sugar,  add  the  well'beaten  eggs,  and  mix 
well.  Sift  together  the  flour,  baking  powder,  and  salt,  and  add  to  the 
fir^  mixture  alternately  with  the  milk.  Melt  the  chocolate  over  ffteam, 
and  add  with  the  vanilla  to  the  batter  and  beat  until  well  mixed.  Bake 
in  a  shallow  greased  pan  in  a  very  moderate  oven  (300°  to  325°  F.)  for  35 
minutes.  Ju^  before  serving  cover  lightly  with  powdered  sugar.  Or 
if  preferred,  bake  the  cake  in  two  layers  and  ice  with  vanilla  freeing. 

In  this  cake  sour  milk  may  be  used  in  place  of  sweet  milk.  In  this  case 
add  one'half  teaspoon  soda  to  the  dry  ingredients.  The  chocolate  may 
also  be  increased  by  1  square,  if  a  strong  chocolate  flavor  is  desired. 


112 


AUNT  SAMMY'S 


Election  Ca/^e 

Sponge: 

}4  yea^  cake.  J4  cup  milk. 

14  cup  lukewarm  water.  2  cups  sifted  flour. 

14  cup  flour.  1  teaspoon  cinnamon. 

14  teaspoon  sugar.  }4  teaspoon  cloves. 

M  teaspoon  nutmeg. 

34  cup  butter  or  other  fat.  1  teaspoon  salt. 

1  cup  brown  sugar.  1  cup  chopped  raisins. 

1  egg.  i4  cup  chopped  figs  or  dates. 

To  make  the  sponge,  soften  the  yea^  in  the  lukewarm  water,  add  the 
flour  and  sugar,  and  beat  well.  Put  aside  in  a  warm  place  to  Hghten  for 
about  an  hour.  In  the  meantime  mix  the  fat  and  sugar  and  add  the 
beaten  egg  and  the  milk.  Sift  together  the  flour,  spices,  and  salt.  Then 
combine  all  the  ingredients  including  the  sponge  and  mix  well.  Pour 
the  batter  into  a  well'greased  tube  pan.  Cover  and  ^and  in  a  warm 
place  to  rise  for  3  or  4  hours.  Bake  for  1  hour  in  a  moderate  oven 
(350°  F.). 

♦ 


Foundation  Ca\e 


Yi  cup  butter. 
1 K  cups  sugar. 
3  eggs. 

3  cups  sifted  soft-wheat  flour. 


4  teaspoons  baking  powder. 
]4,  teaspoon  salt. 
1  cup  milk. 
]/i  teaspoon  flavoring. 


Cream  the  fat  and  sugar  together,  add  the  beaten  egg  yolks,  and  beat 
well.  Sift  together  the  dry  ingredients  and  add  alternately  with  the 
milk  to  the  fir^  mixture.  Fold  in  the  egg  whites  and  the  flavoring. 
Bake  in  greased  layer  cake  pans  in  a  moderately  hot  oven  (375°  F.)  for 
about  15  minutes.  Put  the  layers  of  cake  together  with  chocolate  or 
other  fro^ing. 

♦ 


Fruit 

Yi,  pound  citron,  cut  fine. 
1  pound  raisins,  chopped. 

1  pound  currants. 

2  cups  chopped  nuts. 

4  cups  sifted  flour. 
Yi  pound  butter. 

1  cup  sugar. 

5  eggs. 

Yi  cup  cider. 


Yi  cup  tart  jelly. 
Yi  cup  sour  cream. 

1  cup  molasses. 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 
Y2  teaspoon  soda. 

1  teaspoon  salt. 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon. 

1  teaspoon  nutmeg. 


Prepare  the  fruit  and  nuts  carefully,  combine,  and  rub  in  2  cups  of 
the  flour,  so  that  the  fruit  is  separated  into  small  pieces.  Cream  the  fat, 
add  the  sugar,  beaten  egg  yolks,  cider,  jelly,  sour  cream,  and  molasses. 
Sift  twice  the  remaining  2  cups  of  flour,  baking  powder,  soda,  salt,  and 


RADIO 


RECIPES 


REVISED 


113 


spices,  ^ir  into  the  liquid  mixture,  add  the  floured  fruit  and  nuts,  and 
fold  in  the  well-beaten  whites  of  eggs.  Bake  in  a  tube  pan  lined  with 
greased  paper  in  a  very  slow  oven  (250°  to  275°  F.)  for  about  3  hours. 
This  cake  will  weigh  from  5  to  6  pounds  and  will  keep  fresh  for  a  long 
time  if  ^ored  in  a  tin  box. 

♦ 


White  Fruit  Ca}{e 


cup  butter. 

1  cup  sugar. 

H  cup  sour  cream. 

2  cups  sifted  flour. 
14  teaspoon  salt. 
J<  teaspoon  soda. 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 


1  cup  chopped  blanched  almonds. 
1  cup  sultana  raisins. 
^  pound  citron,  cut  in  small  pieces. 
1  slice  candied  pineapple,  cut  in 

small  pieces. 
5  egg  whites. 
1  teaspoon  vanilla. 


Cream  the  fat  and  sugar  together  and  add  the  cream.  Mix  1  cup  of 
the  flour  with  the  nuts  and  fruit  and  sift  the  remaining  cup  of  flour 
with  the  salt,  soda,  and  baking  powder.  Combine  these  ingredients 
and  mix  well,  fold  in  the  well-beaten  egg  whites,  and  add  the  vanilla. 
Pour  into  a  well-greased  tube  pan  lined  with  greased  paper,  and  bake  in 
a  very  moderate  oven  (300°  F.)  for  2  to  2%  hours.  When  cold,  wrap 
in  waxed  paper,  ^ore  in  a  tin  box,  and  keep  a  few  weeks  before  serving. 


Gingerbread 


14  cup  fat. 
1^  cup  sugar. 
1  cup  molasses. 
1  egg- 

3  cups  sifted  soft-wheat  flour. 

4  teaspoons  baking  powder. 


14  teaspoon  soda. 
14  teaspoon  salt. 
1  teaspoon  ginger. 
i4  teaspoon  cloves. 
14  teaspoon  cinnamon. 
1  cup  milk. 


Cream  together  the  sugar  and  fat.  Add  the  molasses  and  beaten  egg. 
Sift  together  twice  the  dry  ingredients  and  add  to  the  fir^  mixture 
alternately  with  the  milk.  Bake  in  two  shallow  pans  in  a  moderate  oven 
(350°  F.)  for  30  to  40  minutes.  Serve  with  cream  cheese  or  whipped 
cream. 

One  cup  of  sour  milk  may  be  used  in^ead  of  the  sweet  milk.  In  that 
case,  use  1  scant  teaspoon  of  soda  in  place  of  the  one-half  teaspoon  now 
called  for,  and  use  only  2  teaspoons  of  baking  powder. 


114 


AUNT  SAMMY'S 


Scotch  Short  Bread 

3H  cups  sifted  flour.  14  cup  sugar. 

1  cup  butter.  }4  teaspoon  salt. 

Sift  the  flour,  salt,  and  sugar  on  a  bread  board.  Break  the  butter  into 
small  pieces  and  work  into  the  dry  ingredients  by  pressing  with  the 
palm  of  the  hand  and  the  wri^,  until  there  is  a  smooth  even  mixture. 
Make  the  dough  into  a  ball  and  roll  out  about  three-fourths  of  an  inch 
thick.  Place  in  a  pan  with  high  sides  to  prevent  the  short  bread  from 
browning  too  quickly  around  the  edges,  and  prick  the  surface  with  a 
fork.  Bake  in  a  very  moderate  oven  (300°  F.)  for  35  minutes.  Allow 
short  bread  to  ^and  an  hour  or  two  before  serving  so  that  it  becomes 
crisp  and  thoroughly  set,  then  break  into  pieces. 


Spice  Ca\e 


%  cup  butter  or  other  fat. 
1  l-i  cups  sugar. 
3  eggs. 

3  cups  sifted  soft-wheat  flour, 
3  teaspoons  baking  powder. 
}4  teaspoon  salt. 


1  }4  teaspoons  cinnamon. 

34  teaspoon  nutmeg. 

H  teaspoon  cloves. 

M  cup  strong  cofi^ee  infusion. 

1  teaspoon  vanilla. 


Cream  the  fat  and  sugar  together  and  add  the  well'beaten  egg  yolks. 
Sift  together  the  dry  ingredients  and  add  alternately  with  the  coffee  to 
the  fir^  mixture.  Add  the  vanilla  and  fold  in  the  well'beaten  egg 
whites.  Bake  in  a  greased  tube  pan  for  1  hour  in  a  moderate  oven 
(350°  F.).  Ice  with  vanilla  frosting. 


Sponge  Ca\e 

4  or  5  eggs.  H  lemon  rind,  grated. 

1  cup  sugar.  1  cup  sifted  soft-wheat  flour. 

3  teaspoons  lemon  juice.  34  teaspoon  salt. 

Separate  the  egg  yolks  and  whites,  beat  the  yolks  and  add  the  sugar, 
lemon  juice  and  rind,  and  the  flour  sifted  with  half  the  salt.  Add  the 
rest  of  the  salt  to  the  egg  whites,  beat  ^iff,  and  fold  into  the  mixture. 
Pour  into  an  ungreased  tube  pan  and  at  once  bake  in  a  very  moderate 
oven  (325°  F.)  for  about  1  hour.  Remove  from  the  oven,  turn  the  pan 
upside  down  on  a  rack,  and  let  the  cake  drop  out  itself.  For  serving 
break  rather  than  cut  the  cake  apart  so  as  not  to  press  down  the  fluffy 
texture. 


RADIO 


RECIPES 


REVISED 


115 


Washington  Pie 

Bake  foundation  cake  (p.  112)  in  two  layers.  Spread  one  layer  with 
jam  or  jelly,  cover  with  the  other  layer,  and  sprinkle  powdered  sugar 
over  the  top. 

♦ 

Best'Ever  Cookies 

Yi  cup  butter.  1  teaspoon  baking  powder. 

1  cup  sugar.  1  cup  chopped  raisins. 

2  eggs.  1  cup  dry  shredded  coconut. 
2  tablespoons  milk.  2  teaspoons  vanilla. 

2  cups  sifted  flour.  3  cups  flaked,  toa^ed  breakfaA 

1  teaspoon  salt.  food. 

Cream  the  fat  and  sugar,  and  add  the  beaten  egg  yolks  and  the  milk. 
Sift  the  dry  ingredients  and  add  with  the  raisins  and  coconut  to  the 
fir^  mixture.  Fold  in  the  beaten  egg  whites  and  add  the  vanilla  and 
the  breakfa^  food.  Stir  carefully  so  the  flakes  are  not  broken.  This 
is  a  very  stiff  mixture.  Place  by  spoonfuls  an  inch  apart  on  a  greased 
baking  sheet,  bake  in  a  very  slow  oven  (250°  F.)  until  brown,  and 
watch  closely,  for  these  cakes  burn  easily.  Remove  from  the  pan 
while  hot. 

♦ 

Byownits 

2  ounces  or  squares  unsweetened  1  cup  finely  chopped  nuts. 

chocolate.  1  cup  sifted  flour. 

Yi  cup  butter.  1  teaspoon  baking  powder. 

2  eggs.  teaspoon  salt. 

1  cup  sugar.  Y2  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Melt  the  chocolate  and  fat  together.  Beat  the  eggs  slightly,  add  the 
sugar,  and  the  chopped  nuts,  which  have  been  mixed  with  the  flour, 
baking  powder,  and  salt.  Stir  in  the  chocolate  and  fat  after  they  have 
cooled,  and  add  the  vanilla.  Pour  into  a  warm  greased  shallow  pan 
lined  with  greased  paper,  and  spread  the  mixture  evenly.  Bake  in  a 
very  moderate  oven  (300°  to  325°  F.)  for  45  minutes  to  1  hour, 
depending  on  the  thickness  of  the  layer.  Turn  from  the  pan  and 
remove  the  paper  while  the  cake  is  hot.  Cut  the  cake  into  short 
strips  or  squares.  Brownies  will  keep  fresh  for  some  time  in  a  tin  box. 

♦ 

Chocolate.  Drop  Coo\ies 

2  ounces  or  squares  unsweetened  1  cup  chopped  nuts. 

chocolate.  1}  2  cups  sifted  flour. 

Yi  cup  butter  or  other  fat.  2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

1  cup  sugar.  14  teaspoon  salt. 

1  egg.  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

1^  cup  milk. 

Melt  the  chocolate  and  add  the  fat  and  sugar.  Add  the  egg  without 
beating  and  the  milk.  Use  2  tablespoons  of  the  flour  to  coat  the  nuts. 


116 


AUNT  SAMMY'S 


Then  add  the  nuts  and  the  sifted  dry  ingredients  to  the  liquid  mix' 
ture.  Stir  this  thoroughly  and  add  the  vanilla.  Drop  the  batter  by 
teaspoonfuls  onto  a  greased  baking  sheet  or  an  inverted  baking  pan. 
Bake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven  (375°  to  400°  F.)  for  about  10  minutes. 


Date  Bars 

a  pound,  or  1^  cups  pitted  dates.  14  teaspoon  salt. 

3  eggs.  1  teaspoon  baking  powder. 

1  cup  sugar.  1  cup  chopped  nuts. 

1  cup  sifted  flour. 

Stone  and  cut  the  dates  into  small  pieces.  Beat  the  eggs,  add  the 
sugar,  the  sifted  dry  ingredients,  dates,  and  nuts,  and  mix  well.  Bake 
in  greased  shallow  pans  from  30  to  40  minutes  in  a  very  moderate 
oven  (about  300°  F.).  When  cool,  cut  in  bars  and  roll  in  sugar. 
Store  in  a  tin  box. 

♦ 

Ginger  Snaps 

1  cup  molasses.  2  tablespoons  sugar. 

14  cup  butter.  1  to  2  tablespoons  ginger. 

14  teaspoon  soda.  1 14  teaspoons  salt. 

2H  cups  sifted  flour. 

Heat  the  molasses  to  the  boiling  point,  and  pour  it  over  the  fat.  Add 
the  sifted  dry  ingredients  to  the  molasses  and  fat.  Mix  well  and  make 
into  a  long  roll  as  large  around  as  the  cookies  are  to  be.  Wrap  this  roll  of 
dough  in  waxed  paper  and  put  in  a  cold  place  to  chill  for  several  hours 
or  overnight.  The  dough  mu^  be  cold  through  and  through  to  cut 
properly.  When  ready  to  bake,  cut  the  roll  into  very  thin  slices  with  a 
sharp  knife  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  (350°  F.)  until  Hghtly  browned. 
Remove  from  the  pan  while  hot.  Store  the  snaps  in  a  tightly  covered 
container  so  that  they  will  hold  their  crispness. 


'Macaroons 

2  egg  whites.  1  cup  shredded  coconut. 

Vs  teaspoon  salt.  2  cups  flaked  toasted  breakfa^  food. 

1  cup  sugar.  Almond  flavoring. 

Beat  the  egg  whites  with  the  salt  until  ^iff,  add  the  sugar,  and  beat 
thoroughly.  Fold  in  the  coconut  and  toa^ed  flakes,  which  have  been 
crushed  in  the  hands.  Add  the  flavoring.  Drop  by  spoonfuls  onto  oiled 
paper  and  bake  in  a  very  moderate  oven  (300°  to  325°  F.)  for  about  20 
minutes,  or  until  delicately  browned  and  well  set. 


RADIO 


RECIPES 


REVISED 


117 


Oatmeal  Drop  Coo\ies 

14  cup  fat.  \4  cup  milk. 

1  cup  sugar.  J4  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in 

1  egg.  1  teaspoon  water. 
Ii4  cups  sifted  flour.  IJ^  cups  fine  oatmeal. 
14  teaspoon  salt.  H  cup  chopped  nuts. 

2  teaspoons  cinnamon.  1  cup  seedless  raisins. 

Cream  the  fat  and  sugar,  and  add  the  beaten  egg.  Sift  together  the 
dry  ingredients,  except  the  oatmeal,  and  add  with  the  milk  to  the  fir^ 
mixture.  Add  the  soda  and  water,  and  then  the  oatmeal,  nuts,  and 
raisins.  Mix  well.  Drop  by  spoonfuls  onto  a  greased  baking  sheet  and 
bake  to  a  golden  brown  in  a  moderately  hot  oven  (375°  to  400°  F.). 
Remove  from  the  pan  while  hot. 

♦ 

Orange  Drop  Coo\ies 

2  tablespoons  grated  orange  rind.  4  tablespoons  orange  juice. 

4  tablespoons  butter.  2  cups  sifted  flour. 

1  cup  sugar.  4  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

2  eggs.  1^  teaspoon  salt. 

Cream  together  the  grated  orange  rind,  butter,  and  sugar.  Add  the 
well-beaten  eggs  and  orange  juice,  and  the  flour,  baking  powder,  and 
salt,  which  have  been  sifted  together.  Drop  the  batter  by  spoonfuls 
onto  a  greased  baking  sheet  and  bake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven  (375°  to 
400°  F.)  for  about  10  minutes. 

♦ 


Peanut  Butter  Cup  Ca}{es 


14  cup  butter  or  other  fat. 
}4  cup  peanut  butter. 

1  cup  sugar. 

2  eggs. 

3  cups  sifted  soft'wheat  flour. 


4  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

14  teaspoon  salt. 

1  cup  milk. 

1  teaspoon  vanilla. 


Cream  together  the  fat,  peanut  butter,  and  sugar,  add  the  beaten 
eggs,  and  the  sifted  dry  ingredients  alternately  with  the  milk.  Add 
the  vanilla.  Bake  in  greased  muffin  tins  in  a  moderate  oven  (350°  F.) 
for  about  20  minutes. 


Peanut  Crisps 


1  cup  finely  chopped  peanuts. 

1  cup  sugar. 

H  cup  sifted  flour. 


14  teaspoon  salt. 
3  egg  whites. 

i4  teaspoon  almond  extract. 


Mix  the  peanuts,  sugar,  flour,  and  salt  thoroughly.  Beat  the  egg 
whites  until  StiS,  add  the  flavoring,  and  fold  into  the  fir^  mixture. 


118 


AUNT  SAMMY'S 


Drop  by  small  spoonfuls  well  apart  on  a  greased  baking  sheet.  Bake  for 
about  15  minutes,  or  until  lightly  browned,  in  a  very  moderate  oven 
(about  325°  F.). 


Pin^Wheel  Coo\ies 

H  cup  butter.  2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 
1  cup  sugar.  teaspoon  salt. 

1  egg.  1}4  teaspoons  vanilla. 

2  tablespoons  milk.  1  square  unsweetened  chocolate, 
2  cups  sifted  flour.  melted. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar  and  add  the  egg  and  milk.  Add  the  sifted 
dry  ingredients  and  the  vanilla  and  ^ir  until  thoroughly  combined. 
Divide  the  dough  into  equal  portions.  Into  onc'half  of  the  dough  mix 
the  melted  chocolate.  Roll  out  one'half  of  the  chocolate  dough  intoan^ 
oblong  sheet  about  one^half  inch  thick  on  a  lightly  floured  board.  Over 
this  sheet  of  chocolate  dough  spread  onc'half  of  the  portion  of  white 
dough  and  pat  out  into  the  same  size  as  the  chocolate  sheet.  Beginning 
at  the  end  of  this  oblong  sheet  of  chocolate  and  white  dough,  roll  it  up 
like  a  jelly  roll.  Make  a  similar  roll  of  the  remaining  portions  of  choco' 
late  and  white  dough,  putting  the  white  on  the  bottom  and  the 
chocolate  on  top.  Wrap  these  rolls  of  dough  well  in  waxed  paper  and 
put  in  a  cold  place  to  chill  for  several  hours  or  overnight.  When  cold 
through  and  through,  cut  them  into  very  thin  slices  with  a  sharp  knife 
and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  (350°  F.)  until  lightly  browned.  Store  the 
cookies  in  a  tightly  covered  container  so  that  they  will  hold  their 
crispness. 


Roc\s 

1  cup  butter.  H  teaspoon  salt. 

I'A  cups  light  brown  sugar.  3  cups  raisins,  chopped. 

3  eggs.  1  cup  chopped  walnuts. 

2M  cups  sifted  flour.  H  teaspoon  soda 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar  and  add  the  well'beaten  eggs.  Sift 
together  the  flour,  cinnamon,  soda,  and  salt,  and  reserve  1  cup  of  the 
flour  to  mix  v/ith  the  raisins  and  nuts.  Mix  all  together.  Place  by 
spoonfuls  on  a  greased  sheet  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  (400°  F.),  until 
Hghtly  browned.  As  flour  varies  so  much,  bake  a  sample,  and  if  it 
runs  add  from  one-eighth  to  one-fourth  cup  more  flour.  Sometimes 
when  drop  cakes  spread  out  too  much  in  baking  the  fault  is  that  the 
oven  is  not  hot  enough  rather  than  that  the  mixture  is  too  soft.  Drop 
cakes  need  a  rather  hot  oven  at  fir  A  so  that  they  set  quickly  and  hold 
their  shape.  They  also  bake  better  on  a  baking  sheet  without  high 
sides  or  on  an  inverted  pan.  Care  mu^t  be  taken  that  they  do  not  be- 
come too  brown  around  the  edges. 


RADIO     RECIPES  REVISED 


119 


Sand  Tarts 

H  cup  butter.  J4  teaspoon  salt. 

%  cup  light  brown  sugar.  1  teaspoon  cinnamon. 

1  egg.  3  tablespoons  granulated  sugar. 

2  cups  sifted  flour.  Halved  almonds  or  pecans. 
2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Cream  together  the  butter  and  brown  sugar,  and  add  the  well' 
beaten  egg.  Sift  together  the  flour,  baking  powder,  and  salt,  and  add 
to  the  fir^  mixture.  On  a  lightly  floured  board  make  a  roll  of  the 
dough  about  3  inches  in  diameter.  Wrap  in  waxed  paper  and  let  ^and 
for  several  hours  or  overnight  in  a  cold  place.  In  the  morning  slice 
wafer  thin  with  a  sharp  knife,  and  sprinkle  with  a  mixture  of  the 
cinnamon  and  granulated  sugar.  Press  a  nut  in  the  center  of  each 
cookie.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  (350°  F.)  for  about  10  minutes,  or 
until  lightly  browned.  Store  in  air-tight  containers. 


Scotch  Wafers 

2  cups  rolled  oats.  2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

1  cup  sifted  flour.  3  tablespoons  fat. 

yi  cup  sugar.  14  cup  milk, 

teaspoon  salt. 

Mix  the  dry  ingredients,  add  the  fat,  and  mix  together  thoroughly. 
Add  enough  milk  to  make  a  dough  sufliciently  hard  to  roll  (about  one- 
third  of  a  cup).  Knead  this  dough  well,  roll  very  thin,  and  cut  with  a 
biscuit  cutter.  Bake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven  (375°  F.)  for  15  to  20 
minutes.  When  cool  the  wafers  should  be  very  crisp. 


Vanilla  Wafers 

%  cup  butter.  Ii4  cups  sifted  flour. 

14  cup  sugar.  1  teaspoon  baking  powder. 

1  egg.  ii  teaspoon  salt. 

2  tablespoons  milk.  2  teaspoons  vanilla. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  add  the  well-beaten  egg,  the  milk,  and 
the  sifted  dry  ingredients,  then  the  vanilla.  Drop  by  one-half  tea- 
spoons on  a  lightly  greased  baking  sheet,  allowing  room  to  spread. 
Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  (about  350°  F.)  for  about  10  minutes,  or 
until  the  edges  are  golden  brown. 


120 


AUNT  SAMMY'S 


Fruit  Filling  for  Ca\e 

Fillings  such  as  those  used  in  Lord  and  Lady  Baltimore  cakes  may  be 
made  by  adding  chopped  fruits  and  nuts  to  vanilla  freeing.  Make 
twice  the  recipe  for  vanilla  fro^ing  (p.  121)  and  to  half  of  it  add  1  cup 
of  any  desired  combination  of  the  following:  Chopped  raisins,  dates, 
figs,  candied  cherries,  candied  grapefruit  or  orange  peel,  candied  pine' 
apple,  and  chopped  blanched  almonds,  pecans,  or  other  nuts,  and  2 
teaspoons  of  lemon  juice.  Spread  this  fruit  mixture  between  the 
layers  of  the  cake  and  ice  the  top  with  the  plain  vanilla  fro^ing. 
Before  the  fro^ing  hardens  sprinkle  more  of  the  candied  fruit  and 
nuts  over  the  top. 


Lemon  Filling  for  Ca\e 

1  cup  sugar.  Grated  rind  of  1  lemon. 

2l4  tablespoons  flour.  2  eggs. 

Vs  teaspoon  salt.  1  tablespoon  butter. 

M  cup  lemon  juice. 

Mix  the  sugar,  flour,  and  salt  thoroughly,  add  the  lemon  juice  and 
rind,  and  cook  in  a  double  boiler  for  5  minutes.  Beat  the  eggs,  ^ir  the 
sugar  mixture  slowly  into  them,  return  to  the  double  boiler,  cook  until 
thickened,  and  add  the  butter.  When  cold  use  as  the  filling  for  layer 
cake. 

♦ 

Mocha  Icing 

2  tablespoons  butter.  2  tablespoons  strong  clear  coffee. 

1  cup  confectioner's  xxxx  sugar. 

Cream  the  butter,  add  the  sugar  and  coffee  gradually,  and  beat  until 
soft  and  creamy.  Spread  at  once  on  cake. 


Orange  Icing 

2  tablespoons  butter.  2  tablespoons  fresh  orange  juice. 

1  cup  confectioner's  xxxx  sugar.        Grated  rind  of  1  orange. 

Cream  the  butter,  add  the  sugar  and  orange  juice  gradually,  beat  until 
soft  and  creamy.  Spread  at  once  on  cake. 


RADIO 


RECIPES 


REVISED 


121 


Chocolate  Proving 


Break  two  or  more  squares  of  unsweetened  chocolate  into  the  vanilla 
fro^ing  ju^  before  removing  it  from  the  ^ove.  Beat  until  the  chocolate 
melts  and  the  fro^ing  becomes  thick,  remove  from  the  ^ove,  add  the 
vanilla,  and  continue  the  beating  until  the  right  consi^ency  to  spread. 


Put  the  sugar,  water,  and  unbeaten  egg  white  into  the  upper  part  of 
a  double  boiler,  and  have  the  water  in  the  lower  part  boiling.  Com' 
mence  beating  the  mixture  with  a  Dover  beater  at  once,  and  beat  con- 
^antly  while  it  cooks  for  about  10  minutes.  It  should  then  look  like 
ordinary  boiled  icing  and  should  be  almost  thick  enough  to  spread.  Take 
it  from  the  ^ove,  add  the  vanilla,  and  continue  to  beat  until  it  has 
thickened  and  holds  its  shape  on  the  beater.  If  the  fro^ing  is  not  suffi' 
ciently  cooked,  place  it  in  the  double  boiler  and  recook  for  a  short  time; 
or  if  it  is  too  ^iff,  add  a  small  quantity  of  water  and  cook  again.  This 
is  sufficient  to  ice  a  2'layer  cake  and  should  not  be  put  on  until  the  cake 
is  cold.  After  the  vanilla  froAing  has  set,  unsweetened  chocolate  may 
be  melted  and  poured  over  the  top  in  a  very  thin  layer. 


Vanilla  Frosting 


1  cup  sugar. 

4  tablespoons  cold  water. 
1  egg  white. 


H  teaspoon  salt. 
yi  teaspoon  vanilia. 


♦ 


122 


AUNT  SAMMY'S 


Ice  Creams  and  Frozen  Desserts  ^ 


Banana  Ice  Cream 

3  ripe  bananas,  or  1  cup  2  tablespoons  lemon  juice. 

banana  pulp.  }4  cup  sugar. 

1  quart  single  cream.  M  teaspoon  salt. 

Skin  and  scrape  the  bananas  and  press  them  through  a  fine  seive  to 
form  pulp,  add  the  lemon  juice,  the  sugar  and  salt,  and  mix  well.  Stir 
in  the  cream.  Use  a  freezing  mixture  of  1  part  salt  to  4  to  6  parts  ice. 
Turn  the  crank  of  the  freezer  slowly.  After  freezing,  remove  the 
dasher,  pack  the  freezer  with  more  ice  and  salt,  and  let  the  cream  ^and 
for  an  hour  or  more  to  ripen. 

♦ 

Fresh  Fruit  Ice 

2l4  quarts  strawberries  or  IM  to  1 14  cups  sugar. 

other  fruit.  4  tablespoons  strained  lemon  juice. 

1  cup  water.  H  teaspoon  salt. 

Strawberries,  raspberries,  blackberries,  or  any  other  juicy  fruits  may 
be  used.  Strawberries  and  raspberries  make  an  ice  of  mo^  attractive 
red  color.  Crush  the  fruit,  heat  with  the  water  for  about  2  minutes, 
and  ^ir  and  press  so  that  the  juice  runs  freely.  Strain  through  several 
thicknesses  of  cheesecloth.  There  should  be  nearly  5  cups  of  the  fruit 
juice.  To  the  juice  add  the  sugar,  lemon  juice,  and  salt.  Stir  until  the 
sugar  is  dissolved.  Use  a  freezing  mixture  of  1  part  salt  to  4  to  6  parts 
of  ice.  Turn  the  crank  of  the  freezer  slowly.  After  freezing  remove  the 
dasher,  pack  the  freezer  with  more  ice  and  salt,  and  let  the  fruit  ice 
^and  for  an  hour  or  more  to  ripen. 


Lemon  Ice 

1  quart  water.  teaspoon  salt. 

IM  to  13^  cups  sugar.  1  egg  white. 

1  cup  drained  lemon  juice. 

Boil  the  water  and  sugar  together  for  2  minutes,  and  put  aside.  When 
cold,  add  the  lemon  juice,  salt,  and  unbeaten  white  of  egg,  and  freeze 
with  a  mixture  of  1  part  salt  to  4  to  6  parts  ice.  Turn  the  crank  slowly 


'  Ice  Creams  Frozen  Without  Stirring,  Leaflet  49,  U.  S.  Department  of  Agriculture,  gives  recipes  foi 
mousses  and  other  ice  creams  of  that  type. 


RADIO     RECIPES  REVISED 


123 


until  the  ice  is  firm.  Remove  the  dasher,  pack  the  freezer  with  more  ice 
and  salt,  and  allow  the  lemon  ice  to  jftand  an  hour  or  more  to  ripen 
before  serving. 

♦ 

Orange  or  Lemon  Sherbet 

2  cups  milk  and  1  cup  cream.  il4  cups  orange  juice. 

or  3  cups  rich  milk.  2  tablespoons  lemon  juice. 

1J<  cups  sugar.  ^  teaspoon  salt. 

Heat  1  cup  of  the  milk,  add  the  sugar,  i^tir  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved, 
and  add  the  other  ingredients.  Use  a  freezing  mixture  of  1  part  of  salt 
and  4  to  6  parts  of  ice,  and  turn  the  crank  of  the  freezer  slowly.  After 
freezing,  remove  the  dasher,  pack  the  freezer  with  more  ice  and  salt, 
and  let  the  sherbet  i^tand  for  an  hour  or  more  to  ripen  in  flavor. 

Lemon  sherbet  may  be  made  in  this  same  way  by  omitting  the  orange 
juice  and  using  about  1  cup  lemon  juice  and  one-half  cup  water. 

♦ 


Peach  Ice  Cream 

3  cups  soft  sliced  peaches.  I  tablejspooii  or  more  lemon  juice, 

1  cup  sugar.  depending  on  the  acidity  of  the 
H  teaspoon  salt.  peaches. 

2  cups  single  cream. 

Cover  the  sliced  peaches  with  the  sugar,  and  let  ^and  for  about  half 
an  hour.  Press  the  fruit  through  a  colander  to  form  pulp.  Add  the  salt, 
cream,  and  lemon  juice.  Use  a  freezing  mixture  of  1  part  salt  and  4  to  6 
parts  ice.  Turn  the  crank  of  the  freezer  slowly.  After  freezing,  remove 
the  dasher,  pack  the  freezer  with  more  ice  and  salt,  and  let  the  cream 
^tand  for  an  hour  or  more  to  ripen. 

♦ 

Peanut-Brittle  Ice  Cream 

1  quart  single  cream.  1 H  to  2  cups  ground  peanut  brittle. 

H  cup  sugar.  H  teaspoon  salt. 

Heat  1  cup  of  the  cream  to  the  boiling  point,  add  the  sugar  and  the 
ground  peanut  brittle,  and  ^ir  until  well  blended.  Mix  with  the 
remaining  cream,  and  the  salt.  Use  a  freezing  mixture  of  1  part  salt  and 
4  to  6  parts  of  ice  and  turn  the  crank  of  the  freezer  slowly.  After  freez- 
ing, remove  the  dasher,  pack  the  freezer  with  more  ice  and  salt,  and  let 
^tand  for  an  hour  or  more  to  ripen. 


39363°— 31  9 


124 


AUNT  SAMMY'S 


Peppermint  Ice  Cream 

ly2  pints  single  cream.  )4  teaspoon  salt. 

pint  double  cream.  Green  coloring. 

%  cup  sugar.  8  drops  essence  of  peppermint. 

Heat  one-half  cup  of  the  single  cream,  add  the  salt  and  sugar,  and  ^tir 
until  the  sugar  has  dissolved.  Mix  with  the  re^  of  the  cream,  and  add 
sufHcient  coloring  to  make  a  soft  green,  and  enough  peppermint  essence 
for  delicate  flavoring.  Use  a  freezing  mixture  of  1  part  salt  and  4  to  6 
parts  of  ice  and  turn  the  freezer  slowly.  After  freezing,  remove  the 
dasher,  pack  the  freezer  with  more  ice  and  salt  and  let  ^tand  for  an  hour 
or  more  to  ripen.  Serve  with  hot  chocolate  sauce. 

If  a  less  rich  ice  cream  is  desired,  use  all  single  cream. 


Hed^Haspberry  Ice  Cream 

1  quart  red  raspberries.  3  cups  single  cream. 

]4  cup  water.  4  tablespoons  lemon  juice. 

1  cup  sugar.  M  teaspoon  salt. 

Crush  the  raspberries,  add  the  water,  heat  quickly  for  about  2  min' 
utes,  ^ir,  and  press  the  fruit  until  the  juice  flows  freely.  Strain  through 
several  thicknesses  of  cheesecloth.  Add  the  sugar  to  the  juice,  dlir 
until  dissolved,  and  add  the  other  ingredients.  For  freezing  use  1  part 
salt  to  4  to  6  parts  of  ice,  and  turn  the  crank  of  the  freezer  slowly.  After 
freezing  remove  the  dasher,  pack  the  freezer  with  more  ice  and  salt,  and 
let  the  cream  ^and  for  an  hour  or  longer  to  ripen  in  flavor. 

♦ 

Strawberry  Ice  Cream 

1%  quarts  ^rawberries.  1  to  2  tablespoons  lemon  juice. 

114  cups  sugar.  H  teaspoon  salt. 

2  cups  single  cream. 

Wash  and  cap  the  berries.  Chop  them,  cover  with  the  sugar,  and  let 
^and  in  a  cold  place  for  2  or  3  hours.  Press  the  sweetened  fruit 
through  a  colander.  Add  the  cream,  lemon  juice,  and  salt,  and  freeze. 
Use  a  freezing  mixture  of  1  part  salt  and  4  to  6  parts  ice.  Turn  the 
crank  of  the  freezer  slowly.  After  freezing  remove  the  dasher,  pack  the 
freezer  with  more  ice  and  salt,  and  let  the  cream  ^and  for  an  hour  or 
more  to  ripen  in  flavor. 


RADIO 


RECIPES 


REVISED 


125 


French  Vanilla  Ice  Cream 


1  quart  milk. 
U  cup  sugar. 
14  teaspoon  salt. 


4  eggs. 

1  cup  double  cream. 
1>2  teaspoons  vanilla. 


Heat  the  milk,  sugar,  and  salt  in  a  double  boiler.  Beat  the  eggd 
slightly,  and  mix  in  some  of  the  hot  milk.  Pour  back  into  the  double 
boiler  and  ^ir  con^antly  until  the  cu^ard  coats  the  spoon.  Cool,  add 
the  cream  and  vanilla,  mix  well,  and  freeze.  For  the  freezing  mixture 
use  1  part  of  salt  to  4  to  6  parts  of  ice,  and  turn  the  crank  slowly  during 
freezing.  Remove  the  dasher,  pack  the  freezer  with  more  ice  and  salt, 
and  let  the  cream  i^tand  an  hour  or  more  to  ripen. 


126 


AUNT  SAMMY'S 


Candies  and  Confedions 
♦ 

Chocolate-Coated  Candied  Apples 

1  cup  sugar.  M  teaspoon  salt. 

1  cup  honey.  3  tart,  firm  apples. 

}4  cup  water. 

Boil  together  the  sugar,  honey,  water,  and  salt  for  a  few  minutes. 
Wash,  core,  and  pare  the  apples,  cut  into  half-moon  shaped  pieces  about 
half  an  inch  thick,  drop  into  the  sirup,  and  cook  rapidly  until  the  apples 
are  transparent  and  pradtically  all  the  sirup  is  absorbed.  Lift  onto 
waxed  paper  to  dry.  Break  up  cake  chocolate  made  especially  for  dip- 
ping  candies,  and  put  into  a  shallow  dish  over  hot  water.  As  soon  as 
the  chocolate  begins  to  soften,  remove  from  the  hot  water,  and  ^ir  the 
chocolate  with  the  fingers  until  it  is  all  melted.  Dip  the  pieces  of  apple 
into  the  melted  chocolate  until  well  coated,  and  place  on  waxed  paper 
to  dry.  Pack  the  apple  candies  in  layers  between  sheets  of  waxed 
paper. 


Fondant 

1  cups  granulated  sugar.  teaspoon  salt. 

^  cup  boiling  water.  3-2  teaspoon  vanilla. 

J4  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar. 

Put  the  sugar,  water,  cream  of  tartar,  and  salt  into  a  saucepan  over 
a  hot  fire.  Stir  con^antly  until,  but  not  after,  the  sugar  has  dissolved. 
Do  not  splash  the  sirup.  Remove  the  spoon  and  do  not  use  it  again 
after  the  sirup  boils.  Remove  the  sugar  cry^als  around  the  edge  of 
the  pan  with  a  dampened  brush  or  wet  cloth.  Let  the  sirup  boil  until 
it  reaches  a  temperature  of  238°  F.,  or  until  it  forms  a  soft  ball  when 
dropped  into  cold  water.  Be  sure  the  bulb  of  the  thermometer  is 
down  in  the  sirup  and  yet  does  not  touch  the  bottom  of  the  pan. 
Add  the  vanilla  without  birring.  Pour  the  sirup  in  a  thin  sheet  onto 
a  chilled  platter  so  it  will  cool  quickly.  Do  not  scrape  out  the  sauce- 
pan. When  the  sirup  is  cool,  work  it  until  it  creams  with  a  flat  wooden 
spoon.  When  it  forms  a  soft  creamy  mass,  work  it  with  the  palms  of 
the  hands  in  the  same  way  as  bread  dough  until  it  is  smooth. 

Place  the  fondant  in  an  eartjienware  or  glass  dish,  and  cover  with  a 
damp  cloth.  After  about  24  hours  the  fondant  is  ready  to  mold.  Fon' 


RADIO     RECIPES  REVISED 


127 


dant  made  in  this  way  will  keep  for  months  in  a  cold  place  if  covered 
with  a  moist  cloth  or  stored  in  a  tightly  covered  jar. 
The  following  are  a  few  of  the  ways  in  which  fondant  may  be  used : 
Form  the  fondant  into  small  balls  with  the  palms  of  the  hands  and 
press  halves  of  walnut,  pecan,  or  other  nut  kernels  into  them;  or  roll 
the  balls  in  finely  chopped  nuts  or  shredded  coconut.  Candied  fruits, 
such  as  cherries,  pineapple,  cranberries,  grapefruit  peel,  and  citron 
may  be  used  in  the  center  of  fondant  balls  or  pressed  into  the  surface. 

With  or  without  added  nut  meats  fondant  may  be  used  to  stuff 
dates  or  prunes. 

Fondant  may  be  melted  and  used  to  cover  various  kinds  of  fruits 
such  as  strawberries  and  white  grapes.  Only  firm  fruits  with  un' 
broken  skins  should  be  used,  and  a  Httle  of  the  ^em  should  be  left  on 
them.  They  should  be  dipped  very  quickly  into  the  melted  fondant 
and  placed  on  waxed  paper. 

Fondant  may  also  be  melted,  flavored  with  oil  of  peppermint,  oil  of 
wintergreen,  oil  of  roses,  or  almond  extradt,  and  dropped  from  a  tea' 
spoon  onto  waxed  paper  to  make  wafers  about  the  size  of  a  quarter. 
After  they  become  hardened  they  may  be  dipped  in  chocolate.  In 
fadt,  practically  any  of  the  fondant  candies  may  be  coated  with  choco- 
late in  the  following  way: 

Break  up  cake  chocolate  made  especially  for  dipping  candies,  and 
put  into  a  shallow  dish  over  hot  water.  As  soon  as  the  chocolate 
begins  to  soften,  remove  from  the  hot  water,  and  ^ir  the  chocolate 
with  the  fingers  until  it  is  all  melted.  Dip  the  candies  into  the  chocolate 
until  coated,  and  place  on  waxed  paper  to  dry. 


Place  the  sugar  and  chocolate  in  a  double  boiler,  heat  until  the  choco' 
late  is  melted,  and  mix  well.  Add  the  milk  or  cream,  and  cook  over 
direct  heat  without  stirring  until  the  sirup  forms  a  soft  ball  when 
dropped  in  cold  water,  or  until  a  candy  thermometer  registers  238°  F. 
Remove  the  candy  from  the  fire  and  let  it  cool  without  Stirring.  When 
it  is  lukewarm,  add  the  salt,  vanilla,  and  butter,  and  beat  until  creamy. 
Then  quickly  turn  the  candy  into  a  buttered  pan  and  when  firm  cut  in 
squares,  or  if  preferred,  drop  by  teaspoonfuls  onto  waxed  paper. 

To  vary  the  recipe,  spread  a  cup  of  chopped  nuts,  raisins,  or  marsh- 
mallows  cut  into  small  pieces  in  a  greased  pan,  and  pour  the  fudge  on  top. 


Chocolate  Fudge 


2  cups  sugar,  granulated  or 


light  brown. 
4  squares  chocolate. 
34  cup  milk  or  cream. 


2  to  4  tablespoons  butter. 
1  teaspoon  vanilla. 
14  teaspoon  salt. 


128 


AUNT  SAMMY'S 


Divinity 


2  cups  sugar. 
1  cup  water. 
}4  cup  corn  sirup, 
teaspoon  salt. 


2  egg  whites. 

1  cup  chopped  nuts. 

}4  cup  chopped  candied  cherries. 

1  teaspoon  vanilla. 


Heat  the  sugar,  water,  corn  sirup,  and  salt,  and  Stir  con^antly  until 
the  sugar  has  dissolved.  Continue  to  cook  without  birring  until  the 
sirup  forms  a  hard  ball  when  dropped  in  cold  water,  or  until  a  candy 
thermometer  regi^ers  250°  F.  Beat  the  egg  whites,  pour  the  sirup  slowly 
into  them,  and  continue  to  beat  until  the  candy  is  ^iff  enough  to  hold 
its  shape.  Add  the  nuts,  cherries,  and  vanilla,  and  drop  by  spoonfuls 
onto  waxed  paper.  Pack  in  a  tin  box  and  keep  covered  because  this 
candy  dries  out  quickly. 


Seledt  fruit  with  thick,  smooth,  light'Colored  skin  free  from  russet 
and  blemish. 

Strip  the  peel  from  the  fruit  in  quarter  sedions,  including  all  of  the 
white  part  possible.  Cut  the  peel  into  strips  onc'fourth  to  onchalf 
inch  wide.  Do  not  trim  off  either  outer  rind  or  white  pith;  use  the 
entire  peel. 

Parboil  the  peel  three  times.  Add  2  quarts  of  cold  water  each  time, 
bring  to  the  boil,  cook  for  one-half  hour,  and  discard  the  water  after 
each  cooking.  Add  more  water  if  it  boils  away  rapidly.  The  ^rips 
should  then  be  tender  and  mu^  be  handled  gently  to  prevent  breaking. 

Bring  the  sugar,  water,  and  salt  to  the  boiling  point  in  a  saucepan 
about  8  inches  in  diameter.  Add  the  ^rips  of  peel  so  that  they  lie 
parallel  to  each  other,  to  prevent  their  being  broken  when  turned. 
Cook  rapidly  for  about  40  minutes,  then  reduce  the  heat,  and  continue 
to  boil  gently  for  about  30  to  40  minutes  longer.  Have  the  heat  very 
moderate  during  the  la^  of  the  cooking  so  that  the  sirup  does  not 
scorch,  and  turn  the  ^rips  of  peel  frequently  with  a  fork. 

When  all  the  sirup  is  absorbed,  place  the  ^rips,  skin  side  down,  on 
waxed  paper.  When  cool  roll  in  granulated  sugar  until  there  is  a  thin 
coating  of  di^inct  crystals.  Let  the  peel  dry  out  for  a  few  hours  before 
serving,  or  overnight  if  it  is  to  be  stored.  Wrap  in  waxed  paper  and 
^ore  in  tight  tin  or  gla^s  containers.  If  properly  ^ored  in  a  moderately 
cool  place,  it  should  keep  in  good  condition  for  2  or  3  weeks. 

Success  is  much  more  certain  if  weights  rather  than  measures  are 
used.  A  sUght  excess  of  sugar  makes  the  peel  too  hard,  and  too  small 
a  proportion  gives  an  insipid  flavor  and  watery  texture. 


♦ 


Jellied  Grapefruit,  Orange,  or  Lemon  Peel 


10  ounces  of  fruit  peel.  1J4  cups  water  for  sirup. 

2  cups  (14  ounces)  granulated  sugar.  3-4  teaspoon  salt. 


RADIO     RECIPES  REVISED 


129 


When  larger  quantities  of  peel  are  jellied  at  one  time,  the  process 
should  be  slightly  changed.  If  twice  this  quantity  is  used  (20  ounces 
of  peel),  in  parboiling  use  only  enough  water  to  cover  it  well.  In 
making  the  sirup,  choose  a  saucepan  about  10  inches  in  diameter,  and 
use  4  cups  of  sugar  but  only  2  cups  of  water,  so  as  to  make  the 
boiling'down  process  less  tedious. 

For  chocolate-coated  peel,  instead  of  rolling  it  in  sugar,  let  the  peel 
dry  off  for  several  hours,  cut  in  pieces  about  2  inches  long,  and  dip  in 
melted  chocolate.  (See  Chocolate-Coated  Candied  Apples.) 


?<lut  Brittle 

2  cups  granulated  sugar.  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

li  teaspoon  salt.  2  cups  nuts. 

'4  teaspoon  soda. 

Heat  the  sugar  gradually  in  a  clean  smooth  skillet.  Stir  con^ntly 
with  the  bowl  of  the  spoon  until  a  golden  sirup  is  formed.  Remove 
from  the  tire  and  ^tir  in  quickly  the  salt,  soda,  and  vanilla.  Pour  the 
sirup  over  a  layer  of  nuts  in  a  greased  pan.  When  cold,  crack  into 
small  pieces. 

♦ 

T^ut-Coated  IsAarshmallows 

3  cups  nut  meats.  }i  cup  water. 

14  teaspoon  salt.  1 4  pounds,  or  120  fresh  soft 

2  cups  light  brown  sugar.  marshmallows. 

Walnuts,  pecans,  blanched  almonds,  or  a  mixture  of  these  may  be 
used.  Chop  the  nuts  very  fine,  shake  through  a  sieve  so  the  pieces  will 
be  the  same  size.  Mix  the  salt  with  the  nuts.  Boil  the  sugar  and  water 
without  Stirring  until  the  sirup  reaches  a  temperature  of  226°  F.,  or 
until  it  threads  from  the  spoon,  remove  from  the  flame,  and  set  in  a 
larger  pan  of  hot  water.  Brush  the  loose  powder  from  the  marshmal- 
lows, and  drop  one  by  one  into  the  hot  sirup.  Stir  with  forks  until 
coated  with  sirup,  lift  out,  drain,  roll  in  the  chopped  nuts,  and  place 
on  waxed  paper  to  dry.  If  the  sirup  becomes  too  thick,  reheat,  but  do 
not  allow  it  to  come  to  a  boil. 

♦ 

Parisian  Sweets 

H  pound  figs.  'A  pound  nut  meats. 

K2  pound  dried  apricots  or  Confe<Aioners'  sugar, 

seedless  raisins. 

Wash  and  pick  over  the  fruits,  and  combine  with  the  nut  meats. 
Grind  through  a  meat  chopper,  using  the  medium  knife.  Roll  out  about 


130 


AUNT  SAMMY'S 


one-half  inch  thick  on  a  board  sprinkled  with  confedtioners'  sugar.  Cut 
into  small  pieces,  or  make  balls  and  roll  them  in  confectioners'  sugar. 
Store  in  a  tin  box  or  a  tight  jar. 

♦ 


Popcorn  Balls 

114  cups  sugar.  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

1  cup  water.  2  quarts  freshly  popped  com. 

2  tablespoons  vinegar.  2  cups  nut  kernels. 
}i  teaspoon  salt. 

Boil  the  sugar,  water,  vinegar,  and  salt  until  the  sirup  hardens  when 
dipped  into  cold  water,  or  until  a  candy  thermometer  regi^ers  250°  F. 
Add  the  vanilla,  pour  while  hot  over  the  popcorn  and  nuts,  and  mix 
well.  When  cool  enough  to  handle,  grease  the  hands  and  form  into 
balls,  or  place  in  a  deep  layer  in  a  greased  pan,  and  cut  in  oblong  pieces. 
When  cold,  wrap  in  waxed  paper.  If  desired,  2  squares  of  unsweetened 
chocolate  may  be  added  to  the  sirup. 


Sugared  Popcorn 

IJ^  cups  sugar.  1  teaspoon  salt. 

1  cup  water.  2  quarts  freshly  popped  corn. 

Cook  the  sugar,  water,  and  salt  until  the  sirup  forms  a  soft  ball  when 
dropped  into  cold  water,  or  until  a  candy  thermometer  regi^ers  238°  F. 
Remove  from  the  fire.  Beat  with  a  spoon  until  it  is  creamy.  Drop  in 
the  popcorn  and  ^ir  quickly  until  each  kernel  is  coated  with  sugar. 
Put  on  a  greased  platter  and  separate  the  grains  of  corn. 


Pralines 

4  cups  sugar.  2  cups  cream. 

1  teaspoon  salt.  3  cups  pecan  nut  meats. 

Make  a  sirup  with  3  cups  of  the  sugar,  the  salt,  and  the  cream.  Melt 
the  other  cup  of  sugar  slowly  in  a  heavy  skillet  and  ^tir  con^antly  until 
carameH^ed.  Into  it  pour  all  the  sirup  at  one  time,  and  ^ir  con^antly 
and  rapidly.  Boil  the  mixture  without  birring  to  a  temperature  of  238° 
F.,  or  to  the  soft  ball  stage.  Pour  into  a  flat  pan  and  cool.  Beat  until  it 
begins  to  be  creamy,  and  add  the  nuts.  Drop  by  spoonfuls  onto  waxed 
paper  to  form  flat,  round  cakes. 


RADIO     RECIPES  REVISED 


131 


Turkish  Pa^e 


3  tablespoons  gelatin. 
H  cup  cold  water. 
1  pound  sugar. 
14  cup  hot  water. 
]4  teaspoon  salt. 


3  tablespoons  lemon  juice. 

Green  coloring. 

Mint  flavoring. 

1  cup  finely  chopped  nuts. 


Soften  the  gelatin  in  the  cold  water  for  5  minutes.  Bring  the  hot 
water  and  sugar  to  the  boiling  point.  Add  the  salt  and  gelatin,  ^ir 
until  the  gelatin  has  dissolved,  and  simmer  for  20  minutes.  Remove 
from  the  fire  and  when  cool  add  the  lemon  juice,  coloring,  and  mint 
flavoring.  Stir  in  the  nuts  and  allow  the  mixture  to  ^and  until  it  begins 
to  thicken.  Stir  again  before  pouring  into  a  wet  pan  and  have  the  layer 
of  paste  about  one  inch  thick.  Let  ^and  overnight  in  a  cool  place. 
Moisten  a  sharp  knife  in  boiling  water,  cut  the  candy  in  cubes,  and  roll 
in  powdered  sugar. 


♦ 


132 


AUNT  SAMMY'S 


Jams,  Preserves,  and  Relishes 

A.mher  ISAarmalade 

1  orange.  14  teaspoon  salt. 

1  grapefruit.  Sugar.  , 

1  lemon. 

Seled;  smooth,  thick-skinned  fruit  free  from  blemishes  and  ru^. 
Wash  the  fruit,  remove  the  peel,  and  slice  it  very  thin.  Parboil  the 
sliced  peel  three  times  in  the  following  way ;  Add  1  quart  of  cold  water, 
bring  to  the  boil,  cook  for  5  minutes,  and  discard  the  water  after  each 
cooking. 

Cut  the  fruit  pulp  into  thin  slices,  and  remove  seeds  and  "rag." 
Combine  the  sliced  pulp  with  the  drained  parboiled  skins.  To  each 
measure  of  this  mixed  fruit  pulp  and  parboiled  skins,  add  three  times 
the  measure  of  water  and  boil  rapidly  for  40  minutes.  Then  weigh  or 
measure  this  mixture  and  to  it  add  an  equal  weight  or  measure  of  sugar. 
Add  the  salt.  Boil  the  fruit  and  sugar  rapidly  for  25  minutes  longer,  or 
until  it  thickens  and  becomes  amber  colored.  Watch  the  marmalade 
carefully  le^  it  ^ick  and  scorch  as  it  cooks  down.  Let  the  marmalade 
^ftand  in  the  kettle  until  nearly  cool,  ^ir,  and  pour  into  scalded  jelly 
glasses.  When  cold,  cover  with  paraffin  and  ^ore  in  a  cool,  dry  place. 
The  quantities  of  ingredients  given  in  this  recipe  should  yield  about  5 
pints  of  marmalade,  12  to  14  glasses. 


Apricot  and  Pineapple  Jam 

1  pound  dried  apricots.  IJ2  pounds  sugar, 

2  No.  2  cans  crushed  pineapple.  %  teaspoon  salt. 

Wash  the  apricots  and  soak  them  overnight  in  the  juice  drained  from 
the  canned  pineapple.  In  the  morning  chop  the  apricots.  Combine  the 
fruit  and  all  the  juice  with  the  sugar  and  salt  and  heat  slowly.  Stir 
frequently  and  cook  for  about  25  minutes.  Pour  into  hot  ^erili2;ed  jars, 
seal,  and  ^ore  in  a  cool  place. 

♦ 

Catsup 

10  pounds  red  ripe  tomatoes.  1  teaspoon  ground  mustard. 

3  onions.  1  teaspoon  celery  seed. 

2  sweet  red  peppers.  1  tablespoon  salt. 

1  cup  vinegar.  1  teaspoon  whole  allspice, 
cup  sugar.                                1  teaspoon  whole  cloves. 

2  teaspoons  paprika.  3  pieces  iftick  cinnamon  2  inches  long. 

Wash  the  vegetables,  slice,  and  remove  the  seeds  from  the  peppers. 
Cook  the  vegetables  for  about  30  minutes,  then  press  through  a  fine 


RADIO     RECIPES  REVISED 


133 


sieve.  Boil  the  pulp  rapidly  for  about  30  minutes,  or  until  somewhat 
thickened.  Add  the  vinegar,  sugar,  paprika,  mu^ard,  celery  seed,  and 
salt,  and  the  spices  which  have  been  tied  in  a  small  piece  of  cheesecloth. 
Boil  the  mixture  until  thickened  and  ^ir  frequently.  Fill  hot  ^erilized 
bottles  with  the  catsup,  use  new  cork  stoppers,  and  dip  the  bottle  tops 
into  sealing  wax  to  make  an  airtight  seal.  Store  in  a  dark  cool  place. 
This  quantity  of  tomatoes  will  yield  from  1  to  2  quarts  of  catsup. 


Pic}{led  Cherries 

Wash  and  pit  large,  sour,  red  cherries.  To  the  cherries  add  three- 
fourths  of  their  weight  of  sugar.  Sprinkle  the  sugar  over  the  fruit 
in  layers,  and  let  ^tand  overnight.  In  the  morning  ^ir  until  the  sugar 
is  dissolved  and  then  press  the  juice  from  the  cherries.  Tie  a  small 
quantity  of  whole  spices  in  a  loose  cheesecloth  bag,  drop  this  into  the 
luice,  and  boil  it  down  until  it  is  about  three-fourths  of  the  original 
quantity.  Pour  the  hot  sirup  over  the  drained  cherries,  and  add  2 
tablespoons  of  vinegar  to  each  pint.  Seal  and  let  ^and  for  about  2 
weeks  to  blend  before  using. 


Chili  Sauce 


5  quarts  skinned,  chopped  ripe  tomatoes.  1  cup  sugar. 

2  cups  chopped  sweet  red  pepper.  3  cups  vinegar. 

2  cups  chopped  green  pepper.  1  teaspoon  cloves. 

1 4  cups  chopped  onions.  1  teaspoon  allspice. 

3  tablespoons  salt.  1  teaspoon  cinnamon. 

Combine  the  chopped  vegetables,  the  salt,  and  sugar,  and  simmer 
this  mixture  until  it  begins  to  thicken.  Then  add  the  vinegar  and 
spices  and  cook  the  mixture  down  until  it  becomes  a  thick  sauce. 
Pour  into  hot  ^erilized  bottles,  use  new  corks,  and  seal  air-tight  with 
sealing  wax.  This  recipe  yields  about  3  quarts  of  sauce. 


♦ 


Crahapple  Jelly 

Wash  8  pounds  of  firm,  red  crabapples,  and  scrub  the  skins  well. 
Cut  the  apples  in  quarters  and  remove  the  and  blossom  end. 
Cover  with  cold  water  and  cook  rapidly  until  the  apples  are  soft. 
Strain  through  several  thicknesses  of  cheesecloth  and  press  the  bag 
gently  to  ^art  the  flow  of  juice  but  do  not  squeeze  it  as  that  will  give 
a  cloudy  jelly.  Never  make  up  more  than  4-6  cups  of  juice  at  one 
time.  To  each  cup  of  juice  use  1  cup  of  sugar.  Boil  rapidly  until 
the  jelly  te^  is  reached,  that  is,  until  the  juice  sheets  from  the  spoon. 
Let  ^and  a  minute  or  two,  remove  the  scum,  and  pour  into  hot 


134  AUNT  SAMMY'S 


^erilized  glasses.  When  set,  cover  with  melted  paraffin,  label,  and 
store  in  a  cool  dry  place. 

For  spiced  crabapple  jelly,  when  the  juice  and  sugar  are  combined 
and  ready  to  cook  to  the  jelly  te^,  drop  in  a  cheesecloth  bag  contain' 
ing  4  or  5  whole  cloves  and  2  or  3  short  pieces  of  ^ick  cinnamon,  and 
remove  before  pouring  the  jelly  into  the  glasses. 

♦ 


Candied  Cranberries 

1  pound  cranberries.  2  cups  water. 

3  cups  sugar. 

Seled:  large,  firm,  perfect  cranberries,  wash,  and  drain.  Make  two  or 
three  small  slits  in  each  berry  with  the  point  of  a  knife.  Boil  the  sugar 
and  water  together  until  clear.  Allow  the  sirup  to  cool,  add  the  berries, 
bring  very  slowly  to  the  boiling  point,  remove  from  the  ^ove,  and  let 
^and  overnight.  The  saucepan  should  be  large  enough  to  permit  all  the 
berries  to  float  at  the  top  of  the  sirup  during  cooking.  If  the  berries  are 
heated  too  quickly,  the  skins  will  bur^  before  they  absorb  the  sirup. 

Next  day  drain  the  sirup  from  the  berries  and  boil  until  it  is  thick. 
Allow  the  sirup  to  cool,  add  the  berries,  heat  slowly,  cook  gently  for  3 
or  4  minutes,  and  allow  to  ^and  for  2  hours  or  more.  Then  cook  slowly 
a  third  time  for  5  minutes.  Allow  the  berries  to  ^and  in  the  thick  sirup 
overnight,  warm  once  more,  so  that  the  sirup  will  be  thin  enough  to 
pour  easily,  and  drain  the  beiries  from  the  sirup.  Spread  them  on  a  rack 
covered  with  cheesecloth  to  dry.  They  should  then  be  bright,  firm, 
plump,  and  semitransparent.  Store  in  a  tightly  covered  jar  and  use  as  a 
sweetmeat  or  as  a  garnish.  The  sirup  left  over  after  the  cranberries  are 
candied  may  be  used  as  pudding  sauce  or  in  fruit  punch. 


Cranberry  Jam 

2  pounds  cranberries.  3  cups  sugar. 

1  cup  raisins.  H  teaspoon  salt. 

2  oranges.  1  pint  water. 

Pick  over  the  cranberries  and  discard  any  that  are  specked  or  soft. 
Wash  the  berries  and  raisins.  Peel  the  oranges  and  remove  the  seeds. 
Combine  the  fruits  and  chop.  Add  the  sugar,  salt,  and  water,  and  cook 
until  thick,  or  for  about  one-half  hour,  and  ^ir  often.  Pour  into  hot 
^^terilized  jelly  glasses,  cover  with  paraffin  when  cool,  and  ^ore  in  a 
cool  place. 


RADIO 


RECIPES 


REVISED 


135 


Cranberry  Relish 

1  pound  cranberries.  1  cup  sugar  or  drained  honey. 

1  orange.  14  teaspoon  salt. 

Pick  over  the  cranberries  and  discard  any  soft  or  specked  ones.  Wash 
the  berries  and  drain.  Wash  the  orange,  cut  in  quarters,  and  remove 
the  seeds.  Grind  the  berries  and  orange,  rind  and  all,  through  the  food 
chopper,  using  the  fine  knife.  Add  the  sugar  or  honey  and  the  salt. 
Serve  with  roa^  meat  or  poultry.  Stored  in  a  tight  jar  in  a  cold  place 
this  relish  will  keep  for  two  or  three  weeks. 


♦ 


Currant  Jelly 

Seled:  firm,  not  overripe  fruit,  wash  it  thoroughly,  and  remove  the 
leaves  but  not  the  ^ems.  Crush  the  fruit  to  ^art  the  juice  and  then 
heat  It  quickly  without  adding  water.  Cook  and  ^ir  con^antly  from 
5  to  8  minutes,  or  until  the  skins  of  the  fruit  are  white.  Strain  through 
several  thicknesses  of  cheesecloth.  Do  not  squeeze  the  bag,  but  press 
lightly  to  ^tart  the  flow  of  juice  as  it  cools.  Never  make  up  more  than 
4-^6  cups  of  juice  at  one  time.  To  each  cup  of  currant  juice  add  1  cup 
of  sugar.  Stir  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved,  then  bring  quickly  to  the 
boiling  point  in  a  pan  large  enough  to  allow  the  juice  to  boil  rapidly. 
Currants  have  so  much  pedlin  that  as  a  rule  ju^  boiling  up  once  will 
give  the  jelly  te^;  that  is,  the  juice  will  sheet  from  the  spoon.  Re- 
move the  juice  from  the  fire  as  soon  as  the  jelly  te^  is  reached,  let 
stand  for  a  minute  or  two,  and  remove  the  scum.  Pour  the  jelly  into 
hot  Realized  glasses,  cover  with  cheesecloth,  and  let  ^and  until  set. 
When  cold,  cover  the  melted  paraffin  and  rotate  so  that  a  rim  of  the 
paraffin  reaches  the  top  of  the  glass.  Cover  with  lids,  label,  and  ^ore 
in  a  cool  place. 

♦ 


Gooseberry  Jam 

4  pounds  gooseberries.  ^  teaspoon  salt. 

4  pounds  sugar. 

Remove  the  ^ems,  or  the  "tops  and  tails,"  from  the  gooseberries. 
Wash  the  berries,  crush,  and  cook  until  fairly  tender.  Add  the  sugar 
and  salt  and  continue  cooking  until  thick.  If  the  berries  are  ripe  and 
not  too  acid,  three-fourths  as  much  sugar  as  fruit  can  be  used.  Pour  into 
hot  ^erilized  glasses  or  jars  and  seal,  label,  and  i^tore  in  a  cool  place. 


136 


AUNT  SAMMY'S 


Grape  Conserve 

4  pounds  Concord  grapes.  1  cup  seedless  raisins. 

2  pounds  sugar.  1  orange. 

}4  teaspoon  salt.  1  cup  finely  choppea  nuts. 

Wash  and  drain  the  grapes,  remove  them  from  the  ^ems,  and  slip  off 
the  skins  and  keep  them  separate.  Cook  the  grape  pulp  for  about  10 
minutes,  or  until  the  seeds  show.  Press  the  grape  pulp  through  a  sieve 
to  remove  the  seeds.  To  the  grape  pulp  add  the  sugar,  salt,  raisins,  and 
orange,  which  has  been  chopped  fine,  rind  and  all,  and  had  the  seeds 
removed.  Cook  rapidly  until  the  mixture  begins  to  thicken,  and  ^ir 
frequently  to  prevent  sticking.  Add  the  grape  skins,  cook  for  10 
minutes  longer,  or  until  the  conserve  is  thick.  Stir  in  the  chopped  nuts, 
and  pour  at  once  into  hot  ^erilized  jelly  glasses.  When  cold,  cover 
with  melted  paraffin,  and  ^ore  in  a  cool,  dry  place. 

♦ 

Pepper  Relish 

1  cup  finely  chopped  green  peppers.  1  cup  vinegar. 

1  cup  finely  chopped  sweet  red  peppers.  4  tablespoons  sugar. 

1  small  onion,  chopped.  }4  teaspoon  salt. 

Combine  the  peppers  and  onion.  Bring  the  vinegar  to  the  boiling 
point,  add  the  sugar  and  salt,  and  pour  over  the  vegetables.  Let  ^and 
2  or  3  hours  before  serving.  In  a  tightly  covered  jar  in  a  cold  place  this 
relish  will  keep  for  about  a  week. 

♦ 

Quince  Preserves 

6  pounds  sugar.  8  pounds  pared  and  sliced  quinces. 

3 1'2  quarts  water. 

Cook  the  sugar  and  water  together  for  about  3  minutes.  Add  the 
sliced  quinces  and  cook  for  1  to  IV2  hours,  or  until  the  fruit  is  tender 
and  somewhat  clear.  Fill  the  hot  preserves  into  hot  sterilized  glass  jars, 
seal,  label,  and  ^ore  in  a  cool  place. 

♦ 

Rhubarb  Conserve 

1  quart  rhubarb,  cut  fine.  1  cup  blanched  almonds  cut  in 

2  pounds  sugar.  small  pieces. 

2  oranges,  juice  and  grated  rind.  M  teaspoon  salt. 

2  lemons,  juice  and  grated  rind. 

Combine  all  the  ingredients  except  the  nuts.  Heat  the  mixture 
slowly  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved,  then  boil  rapidly  until  the  conserve 
is  thick  and  clear.  Add  the  nuts,  ^ir,  and  pour  into  hot,  ^erilizgd  jelly 
glasses. 


RADIO     RECIPES  REVISED 


137 


Strawberry  Jam 

4  quarts  strawberries.  2  to  3  tablespoons  lemon  juice. 

3  pounds  sugar. 

Wash  the  berries,  drain,  cap,  and  pick  out  the  largest.  Take  about  1 
quart  of  the  smaller  fruit,  crush  it,  and  add  the  sugar.  Cook  this  rapidly 
in  an  enameled  saucepan  and  ^ir  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved  and  a  thick 
sirup  is  formed.  Add  the  remainder  of  the  fruit  and  continue  the  rapid 
cooking,  birring  frequently  to  prevent  scorching.  An  asbe^os  mat 
should  be  placed  under  the  pan  as  a  precaution.  Cook  for  30  minutes, 
or  until  fairly  thick,  then  add  the  lemon  juice.  Pour  into  hot  ^erilized 
jars,  seal,  and  Aore  in  a  cool  place. 


Tellow  Tomato  Preserves 

8  pounds  pear-shaped  yellow  tomatoes.  1}-^  quarts  water. 

2  lemons,  thinly  sliced,  with  seeds  6  pounds  sugar. 

removed.  4  to  6  pieces  ginger  root. 

Wash  the  tomatoes  and  leave  the  skins  on,  or  if  desired  scald  and 
and  remove  the  skins.  Cook  the  lemons  for^about  20  minutes  in  1  pint 
of  water.  Boil  together  the  remaining  water  and  the  sugar  to  make  a 
sirup,  and  add  the  tomatoes,  ginger  root,  and  the  cooked  lemon  rind 
and  liquid.  Boil  until  the  tomatoes  are  somewhat  clear,  and  the  sirup 
thick.  Remove  the  scum,  and  pour  the  preserves  into  hot  ^erilized 
glass  jars.  Seal  and  ^tore  in  a  cool,  dry  place. 


Watermelon  Picl^le 


4  pounds  watermelon  rind. 

Limewater  made  with  2  quarts  cold 
water  and  10  grams,  or  2  table- 
spoons, lime. 

2  quarts  vinegar. 


1  pint  water. 

4H  pounds  granulated  sugar. 

2  tablespoons  whole  allspice. 
2  tablespoons  whole  cloves. 

10  small  pieces  ^ick  cinnamon. 


Seledt  rind  from  a  firm,  not  overripe  melon,  and  before  weighing  trim 
off  green  skin  and  pink  flesh.  Cut  in  inch  cubes  and  soak  for  2}4  hours 
in  the  limewater.  Drain,  cover  with  fresh  water,  cook  for  l}^  hours, or 
until  tender,  and  add  more  water  as  it  boils  off.  Let  ^and  overnight  in 
this  same  water,  and  next  morning  drain.  Bring  to  the  boiling  point  the 
vinegar,  1  pint  of  water,  sugar,  and  spices  tied  loosely  in  cheesecloth. 
Add  the  drained  watermelon,  and  boil  gently  for  2  hours,  or  until  the 
sirup  is  fairly  thick.  Remove  the  spice  bag,  pack  the  watermelon  pickle 
in  ^erilized  glass  jars,  seal  air-tight,  and  ^ore  in  a  cool  place. 


139 


Index  to  Recipes 


Page 

Am'iier  marmalade   132 

Angel  food  cake   HO 

AprLE(8)  — 

and  bacon,  fried   85 

and  cabbage,  scalloped   44 

and  carrots,  fried   45 

and  onions,  fried   53 

and  sweetpotaCoes,  scalloped   57 

baked   g4 

brown  betty   85 

cake,  apple  sauce   110 

cake,  upside-down   86 

candied,  chocolate-coated   126 

compote   85 

dumplings.   108 

float   86 

pie   lOJ 

pie,  with  melted  cheese   104 

salads   64 

sauce   84 

scalloped   84 

Upioca   86 

turn-overs   104 

Ap*i<.ot(s) — • 

and  pineapple  jam   132 

and  prunes   87 

charlotte   87 

jellied   87 

pudding,  steamed   88 

tapioca   88 

Artichoke(s) — 

globe   40 

Jerusalem,  en  casserole   40 

Asparagus — 

and  spaghetti,  scalloped   41 

on  toast   40 

salad   64 

timbales   40 

Bacon — 

and  apples,  fried   85 

and  liver   19 

Banana(s) — - 

and  rhubarb,  baked   89 

baked   88 

fried   88 

ice  cream   122 

pie,  see  Cream-pie   106 

pudding   89 

Bean(j) — 

Boston-baked   41 

kidney,  scalloped   41 

lima,  in  tomato  sauce   42 

soup   9 

^ring,  quick-cooked   42 

string,  scalloped   42 

.■«ring,  shredded,  and  fresh  pork   43 

Beef  — 

and  ham  gumbo  in  rice  ring   14 

broiled  ground,  on  toa.<t   14 

corned,  hash   15 

heart,  stufiFed   18 

loaf   15 

<tcw,  brown   15 

sandwich,  hot-roa«   72 

tongue,  fresh   16 

BceL3,  Harvard   43 

BERRIt4 — ■ 

blackberry  flummery   89 

blackberry  pudding,  baked   90 

blueberry  muffins   73 

.19363°— 31  10 


Berries — Cmtinu(d.  Pag= 

blueberry  pudding,  quick   90 

gooseberry  jam   135 

raspberry,  red,  ice  cream   124 

fftrawberries  supreme   102 

.«rawberry  ice-box  cake   102 

Strawberry  ice  cream   (24 

iftrawberry  jam   137 

Be^-ever  cookies    115 

Biscuits   y(j 

Blackberries.  See  Berries. 

Blueberries.  See  Berries. 

Boiled  dinner   ig 

Bo^on  brown  bread   80 

Bread-crumb  cake   no 

Bread  pudding   99 

Breads  .■   80-83 

Brioche   go 

Broccoli  •.  .  .  .  43 

Brownies   115 

Brussels  sprouts   43 

Butterscotch — 

pie,  cream   104 

pudding   91 

sauce   74 

Cabbage — 

and  apples,  scalloped   44 

and  carrot  salad   65 

and  onion  salad   55 

and  spaghetti  and  cheese,  scalloped ....  45 

-5-minute.  ...    .    44 

salad,  with  whipped  cream  dressing ....  64 

slaw   41 

Cakes— - 

ice-box,  chocolate   92 

ice-box  iftrawberry   102 

upside-down  apple   86 

upside-down  pineapple   99 

see  also   110-115 

Cake  fillings,  fro.<tings,  and  icings   120-121 

Calf-heart,  stuffed   18 

Candies   126-131 

Caramel — 

cup  cakes   1 1 1 

custard,  baked   91 

Carrot(8} — 

and  apples,  fried   45 

and  cabbage  salad   65 

and  curried  fowl   26 

and  orange  gelatin  salad   67 

cu-stard   63 

in  parsley  butter   45 

mashed .   4  ^ 

Catsup   132 

Cauliflower  au  gratin   46 

Celery — 

and  tomatoes,  «ewed   62 

braised   46 

creamed   46 

fritters   47 

stuffed   6> 

Chard,  Swiss   47 

Cheese — 

and  cabbage  and  spaghetti,  scalloped ...  4.5 

and  macaroni  or  spaghetti,  baked   37 

and  tomato  and  corn  on  toast   62 

cottage,  and  tomato  salad   65 

cream,  frozen,  and  fruit  salad   6' 

cu^rd   3fj 

dreams   37 

dressing  fur  saladi   yij 


140 


INDEX   TO  RECIPES 


Cheese — Continued.  ""S* 

salads   65 

«raws   105 

toaft   38 

tomato  rabbit   39 

Welsh  rabbit   39 

Cherry(ies)  

pickled   133 

pie   105 

Chestnuts.  See  Nuts. 

Chicken — 

broiled   24 

casserole  fowl  with  vegetables   24 

chop  suey ,  with  fried  noodles   25 

creamed   25 

curriedfowl  with  carrots   26 

fricasseed,  with  dumplings   26 

fried   26 

rizotto   27 

roa^t,  with  savory  Stuffing   27 

salad   66 

smothered   28 

Chili  sauce   133 

Chocolate — 

blanc  mange   93 

bread  pudding   93 

coatingfor  candied  apples   126 

cookies,  drop   115 

cuaard   92 

custard  forice-box  cake   92 

frosting   121 

fudge   127 

i  ce-box  cake   92 

pie   105 

sauce   74 

Chowders   9-10 

Cider  gelatin  salad   66 

Cider,  spiced   102 

Clam — 

chowder   9 

fritters   30 

Club  sandwich,  ripeolive   73 

Codfish.  See  Fish. 

Coffee — 

bread,  Swedish   81 

cake,  quick   Ill 

gelatin   93 

Confections   126-131 

Cookies   115-119 

Corn — 

and  tomato  and  cheese  on  toaSt   62 

bread   81 

chowder   10 

fritters   47 

pudding   48 

rabbit   48 

soup   10 

Crab  meat,  scalloped   31 

Crabapple  jelly   133 

Cranberry(ies) — 

candied   134 

jam   134 

muffins   79 

pudding,  beamed   93 

relish   135 

sauce   74 

sauce  for  Steamed  pudding   94 

Cream  pie   106 

Cream  pie,  sour   107 

Cream  puffs   106 

Creole  sauce   76 

Cucumber(s) — ■ 

and    pineapple    gelatin    salad,  mint' 

flavored   67 

baked   48 

fried   48 

Currant  jelly   135 


Custard—  Pog« 

caramel,  baked   91 

carrot  or  turnip   63 

cheese   38 

chocolate   92 

chocolate  mixture  for  icebox  cake   92 

fiUingfor  cream  puffs   106 

pie   107 

sauce  f  or  1  emon  sponge   96 

Dandelion  greens,  wilted   49 

Date  bars   116 

Devil's  food  cake   Ill 

Divinity   128 

Dressing(s)- - 

cheese,  for  salads   70 

cooked,  for  fruit  salads   70 

cooked,  for  meat  and  vegetable  salads. .  70 

cream,  whipped,  for  cabbage  salad   64 

f  or  cabbage  slaw   44 

mayonnaise   69 

mayonnaise  variations   69 

Dumplings   26 

Egg  and  cheese  dishes   37-39 

Egg  sauce  for  fish   75 

Eggplant — 

scalloped   49 

stuffed   49 

Eledtion  cake   112 

English  muffins   79 

Fig  pudding   94 

Filling(s) — 

custard,  for  cream  puffs   306 

fruit,  for  cake   120 

lemon,  for  cake   120 

sandwich   71 

Firman  haddie.  See  Fish. 
Fish— 

broiled  fish   31 

chowder   10 

codfish  balls   30 

codfish,  spahgetti,  and  tomatoes   30 

curried   32 

finnan  haddie,  creamed   31 

mackerel,  broiled  salt   33 

roe,  fried   33 

salad,  jellied   32 

salmon  and  potato  puff   36 

salmon  cutlets   36 

salmon,  scalloped   36 

Steak,  baked   32 

timbales   33 

Floating  island   94 

Foamy  sauce   75 

Fondant   126 

Foundation  cake   112 

French  vanilla  ice  cream   125 

FroSlings   120-121 

Frozen  desserts   122-125 

Fruit — 

cake   112 

cake,  white   113 

cup   95 

filling  for  cake   120 

ice,  fresh   122 

jellied   95 

punch   95 

salad  with  cream  cheese   65 

see  also   84-102 

Fruit  Drinks — • 

cider,  spiced   102 

grape  juice,  spiced   102 

punch   95 

Fudge,  chocolate   127 

Giblet  gravy   29 

Gingerbread   113 

Ginger  snaps   116 

Goose,  roaSt,  with  celery  Stuffing   28 

Gooseberries.  See  Berries. 

Graham  muffins   79 


INDEX    TO  RECIPES 


141 


Grai'efruit — 

peel,  jellied   128 

salad   67 

Grape  j  uice,  apiced   102 

Grape{s) — 

conserve   136 

jellied   96 

Grsbns — 

dandelion,  wilted  :   49 

kale,  panned   50 

lettuce,  braised   51 

lettuce,  savory  cooked   51 

mixed,  savory   50 

spinach   59 

spinach  in  cream   59 

Swiss  chard   47 

Ham — 

and  beef  gumbo  in  rice  ring   14 

boiled     17 

en  casserole     17 

smothered  with  sweetpotatoes   17 

souffle    18 

Hard  sauce    75 

HoHandaise  sauce  ,   75 

Honey  and  orange  sauce   76 

Honolulu  salad   67 

Horseradish  sauce   76 

IcE-Box  Cake — 

chocolate    92 

arawberry   102 

Icecreams   122-125 

Icings   120-121 

Indian  pudding,  baked   96 

Jams  and  jellies   132-137 

Kale,  panned    50 

Kidney  beans.  See  Beana. 

Kidney  Stew   18 

Kohlrabi   50 

Lemon — • 

filling  for  cake   120 

ice   122 

peel,  jellied   128 

pie   107 

sherbet   123 

sponge  with  cu^ard  sauce   96 

Lentils,  savory   50 

Lettuce — • 

braised   51 

savory,  cooked    51 

Lima  beans.  See  Beans. 

Liver — 

and  bacon   19 

and  potatoes,  scalloped   19 

and  rice  loaf   19 

Macaroni.  See  Spaghetti. 

Macaroons   116 

Mackerel.  See  Fish. 

Marshmallows.  nut-coated   129 

Mayonnaise  dressing   69 

Mayonnaise  variations   69 

Meat,  savory, on toa*   20 

Meats    14-23 

Mincemeat    108 

Mocha  icing   120 

Muffins   78-80 

MuUigatawney  soup   11 

Mushroom(s>— 

broiled   51 

creamed   51 

soup,  cream  of   11 

■buffed   52 

Noodles,  fried,  for  chop  suey   25 

Nut(s>— 

biscuit   78 

bread   81 

brittle   129 

che^nut  buffing  for  roaft  turkey   29 

coated  marshmallows   129 

peanut  brittle  ice  cream   123 


Nuts— Conimufd.  ^"8' 

peanut  crisps   1 17 

peanuts  and  onions,  scalloped   54 

Oatmeal — 

drop  cookies   117 

muffins   80 

Okra.  fried   52 

Onion(s) — 

and  apples,  fried   53 

and  cabbage  salad   65 

and  peanuts,  scalloped   54 

baked,  in  tomato  sauce   53 

fried,  in  deep  fat   53 

soup  au  gratin   11 

spring,  on  toaSt   53 

stuffed   52 

Orange — 

and  carrot  gelatin  salad   67 

and  honey  sauce   76 

bavarian  cream   97 

biscuits,  turn-over   7S 

cookies,  drop   117 

gelatin   97 

icing   120 

peel,  jellied   128 

sandwiches,  open   73 

sherbet   123 

Ox-tail  ftew   20 

Oyster(s) — 

and  vegetable  ^ew   35 

cocktail    33 

creamed   34 

fried   34 

panned   34 

scalloped   34 

scalloped  with  rice   35 

«ew   35 

Parisian  sweets   129 

Parsley  butter  sandwich  filling   Ti 

Parsnip(s) — 

and  pork  ^ew   21 

browned   54 

scalloped   54 

Pafte,  Turkish   131 

Pbach(es) — ■ 

bavarian  cream   97 

broiled  canned   98 

dumplings   108 

icecream   123 

melba   98 

tapioca   98 

Peanut-brittle  ice  cream   123 

Peanut  butter  cup  cakes   117 

Peanuts.  See  Nuts. 

Pbar(s) — 

baked   98 

sabd   68 

Peas — 

fresh  green   54 

soup,  spht   12 

Peppermint  ice  cream   124 

PepperCs) — 

relish   136 

aufFed   55 

Pie  cru«.  plain   1<B 

Pies  and  other  parries  lOi-109 

Pin-wheel  cookies   118 

Pineapple — 

and  apricot  jam   132 

and  cucumber  gelatin  salad,  mint-flavored.  67 

and  sweetpotatoes,  scalloped   57 

cake,  upside-down   99 

fried    99 

pie   108 

sauce   76 

Plum  pudding   99 

Popcorn — 

balls   130 

sugared   130 


142 


INDEX  TO  RECIPES 


Pop-overs   82 

Pork — • 

and  parsnip    21 

and  shredded  String  beans   43 

and  veal  cakes   21 

curry   20 

PotatoCes) — 

and  liver,  scalloped   19 

and  salmon  puff.   36 

au  gratin   55 

baked   55 

French  fried   56 

hashed  brown   56 

in  tomato  sauce   55 

rolls  ,   82 

salad   68 

scalloped   56 

soup   12 

Poultry   24-29 

Pralines   130 

Preserves   132-137 

Prunes — - 

and  apricots   87 

jellied   100 

spiced   100 

Puddings  and  fruits   84-102 

Pumpkin  pie   108 

Quince  preserves   136 

Raisin  bread   82 

Raspberries.  See  Berries. 

Relishes   1J2-137 

Rhubarb — 

and  bananas,  baked   89 

Betty   101 

conserve   136 

pie   109 

tapioca   101 

Rice — 

and  eggs  in  tomato  sauce,  baked   37 

and  liver  loaf   19 

and  oy:4ters,  scalloped   35 

boiled   58 

pudding,  creamy   101 

ring,  for  beef  and  ham  gumbo   14 

Spanish   58 

Rocb   118 

Salads  and  salad  dressings   64-70 

Sally  Lunn   83 

Salmon.  See  Fish. 

Salsify,  creamed   58 

Sand  tarts   119 

Sandwiches   71-73 

Saucb(s) — 

apple   84 

chili   133 

see  also   74-77 

Sauerkraut,  savory   59 

Scotch  short  bread   114 

Scotch  wafers   119 

Scrapple   21 

Shellfish   30-35 

Shepherd's  pie   22 

Soups   9-13 

Spaghetti — 

and  asparagus,  scalloped   41 

and  cheese,  baked   37 

and  cabbage  and  cheese,  scalloped   45 

and  codfish  and  tomatoes   30 

Spanish  cream   101 

Spanish  sauce   76 

Spanish  sandwich,  hot   72 

Spice  cake   114 

Spinach — ■ 

spinach   59 


Spinach — Continued.  P^S* 

spinach  in  cream   59 

soup,  cream  of   12 

Spongecake   114 

Sponge  cake  for  chocolate  ice-box  cake   92 

Spoon  bread   83 

Squash — 

pie   108 

summer,  panned   60 

winter,  baked   60 

Strawberries.  See  Berries. 

String  beans.  See  Beans. 

Stuffing — 

celery   28 

chestnut   29 

savory   27 

Succotash   60 

Swedish  coffee  bread   81 

Swebtpotato(es) — 

and  apples,  scalloped   57 

and  ham,  smothered   17 

and  pineapple,  scalloped   57 

candied   57 

pie   109 

puff   57 

Swiss  chard   47 

Tomato(e3)— 

and  celery,  slewed   62 

and  codfish  and  spaghetti   30 

add  corn  and  cheese  on  toaft   62 

baked   61 

broiled   61 

cocktail   60 

fried   62 

pie,  green   109 

preserves,  yellow   137 

rabbit   39 

salad,  jelly   68 

salad,  iftuffed   68 

salad,  with  cottage  cheese   65 

sauce   77 

ftuffed,  baked   61 

Turkey,  roaSl,  with  chestnut  buffing   29 

Turkish  pafte   131 

TURNIP(6) — - 

cu^ard   63 

mashed   62 

soup,  quick   13 

Tutti-frutti  sauce   77 

Upside-down  apple  cake   86 

Upside-down  pineapple  cake   99 

Vanilla — 

fronting   121 

ice  cream,  French   125 

wafers   119 

Vbal — 

and  pork  cakes   21 

birds   22 

jellied   22 

timbales   23 

VegetableCs) — 

and  oyster  Stew   35 

au  gratin   63 

curry   63 

1  oaf   63 

salad  combinations   69 

soup   13 

soup,  cream  of   13 

see  also   40-63 

Waffles   83 

Washington  pie   115 

Watercress  sandwich  filling   73 

Watermelon  pickle   137 

Welsh  rabbit   39 

White  sauce. ■   77 


