BASIC  PRINCIPLES  of 
DOMESTIC  SCIENCE 


ilLLA  FRICH.  A.  B. 


INDUSTRIAL  BOOK  &  EQUIPMENT  XO. 


Class. 


(bipp]^?_.__Ll^ 


CrOFSERIGHT  DEFOSm 


BASIC 


PRINCIPLES 

of 

DOMESTIC 
SCIENCE 


INCLUDING  SEVENTY- 
TWO    ILLUSTRATED 
LESSONS   PREPARED 
FOR       USE       IN 
THE     MINNEAPOLIS 
PUBLIC     SCHOOLS 


LILLA  FRICH,A.B. 

Supervisor  Domestic  Science 
Minneapolis  Public  Schools 


AUTHOR 

COOKING,   BOOK  ONE 
COOKING,   BOOK  TWO 


IN  COLLABORATION  WITH 

MUNCIK  NORMAL  IXSTITUTlf 


Copyright,  1908 
Copyright,  Revised  Edition,  1012 
Revised  Edition,  1913 
Revised  Edition,  1916 

by 
LILLA  FRICH 


Published  and  Furnished  by 

Industrial  Book  &  Equipment  Co. 

Indianapolis,  Ind. 


£9fi 

i 

t 

-■ 

*  '•! 

' 

1 

t'"'^   1 

w& 

aam^ 

^"J- 

MIb  ^ 

.^^ 

I« 

.d 

11 

ImI 

A 

Is 

li' 

^?«^i'k. 

«i-: 

■> 

mms^ 

■V.'.. 

^ 

*:i^ 

1^ 

\ 

FEB-t  1917 

©CI,A453893 


^/^ 


"7^ 


Lis 


/ 


BASIC  PRINCIPLES  OF  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE 

. CONTENT 

First  Semester. 


Lessons  A.     Theory, 


Lessons  B.     Practice. 


Uniform,  Directions  for 
Danger  of   Dust  and  Dirt. 

Its  Removal. 
Washing  of  Dishes. 
Study  of  Water.     Its  Uses. 


Rules   for 


5.  Water  as  a  Sterilizing  Medium. 

6.  Water  as  a  Cleaning  Agent:     Ex., 

Care  of  Refrigerator. 

7.  Water  as  a  Cleaning  Agent^ — Cont. 

Care  of  Utensils. 

8.  Water  as  a  Means  of  Carrying  Away 

Waste  Matter:     Plumbing. 

9.  Study  of  Air  in  Its  Relation  to  Life. 

10.  Study  of  Air  in  Its  Relation  to  Fire. 

11.  Study  of  Air  in  Its  Relation  to  Fire- 

Cont.     Stoves. 

12.  Hovsr  to  Build  a  Fire. 

13.  Air  in  Its  Relation  to  Cookery. 

14.  Air  in  Its  Relation  to  Cookery. 

15.  Food  in  Its  Relation  to  the  Body. 

16.  Classification  of  Food. 

17.  Laying  the  Table. 

18.  Laying  the  Dinner  and  Luncheon  Table. 


10. 
11. 

12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 


Sanitary  Housekeeping.     Rules. 
Dusting  and  Sweeping  of  Kitchen  and 

Its  Furnishings. 
Rules  for  Measuring. 
Water   as    a    Cooking   Medium:      Ex., 

Boiling  of  Vegetables. 
Canning  of  Vegetables. 
Preparation    of    Foods 

Large    Percentage    of 

Vegetables. 
Uses  for  Stale  Bread.     Milk  Toast. 


Containing    a 
Water:      Ex., 


Uses  for  Stale  Bread — Continued.  Hot 
Meat  Sandwich. 

Uses  for  Stale  Bread — Continued.  Ger- 
man Toast. 

Plain  Soups. 

Cream  Soups. 

Scalloped  Dishes — Baking. 

Omelettes,  Popovers,  Cream  Puffs,  etc. 

Fruit  MTiips. 

Tapioca  Pudding, 

Salads. 

Breakfast  Table. 

Luncheon  Menus. 


Second  Semester. 


19.  Study  of  Carbohydrates.     Heat  and 

Energy  Producers. 

20.  Carbohydrates,  Study  of — Cereals. 

21.  Carbohydrates,  Study  of — Rice 

22.  Carbohydrates,  Study  of — Sugar. 

23.  Carbohydrates,  Study  of — ^Wheat 

24.  Flour  Mixtures 

25.  Study  of  Baking  Powder  and  Its 

Action. 

26.  Study  of  Corn 

27.  Approximate    Measure     of     1    pound. 
Time    Table    for    Baking   Batters    and 

Doughs. 

28.  Rules  for  Cake  Making. 

29.  Comparative  Cost  of  Foods.     Trigredi- . 

ents  Used  in  Batters  and  Doughs. 

30.  StudY  of  Yeast  and  Its  Action. 


19.  Rules  for  Cooking  Potatoes, 

20.  Rules  for  Cooking  Cereals. 

21.  Rules  for  Cooking  Rice. 

22.  Rules  for  Making  Candy. 

23.  Rules  for  Preparing  Macaroni. 

24.  Rules  for  Making  Griddle  Cakes,  Pour 

Batter.' 

25.  Muffins,  Drop  Batter. 

26.  Corn  Cake,  Drop  Batter. 

27.  Gingerbread,  Drop  Batter. 


28.  Cakes,  Drop  Batter. 

29.  Baking  Powder  Biscuit  Mixtures — 

Soft  Dough. 

30.  Short-Cake  Mixtures. 


BASIC  PRINCIPLES  OF  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE 


Lessons  A,    Theory. 

31.  General   Directions   for   Making   Bread 

That  Requires  No  Kneading. 

32.  Study  of  Sandwiches. 

33.  Test  Questions. 


Lessons  B.    Practice. 

31.  Bread-Making. 

32.  Sandwiches. 

33.  Practice  Test.     Simple  Breakfast. 


Third  Semester. 


34.  Acid  and  Salt  Supplying  Foods. 

35.  Proteids,  Tissue   Builders,   Study   of — 

Eggs. 

36.  Proteids,   Tissue   Builders,   Study   of — 

Eggs — Continued. 

37.  Proteids,   Tissue  Builders,   Study   of — 

Milk. 

38.  Proteids,  Tissue  Builders,  Study  of — 

Cheese. 

39.  Freezing — General  Directions. 

40.  Proteids,  Tissue  Builders — Meat. 

41.  Proteids,  Tissue  Builders — Methods  of 

Cooking  Meat. 

42.  Proteids,  Tissues  Builders — Methods  of 

Cooking  Meat. 

43.  Drawing  of  Beef  Creature. 

44.  Beef. 

45.  Proteids,  Tissue  Builders — Poultry. 

46.  Frying— General  Directions. 

47.  Table    Showing   Composition    of   Meat. 

Time    Table    for    Boiling    Meat    and 
Fish. 

48.  Proteids,  Tissue  Builders — Fish. 

49.  Table    1.     Composition    of    Fish,    Mol- 

luskSj  Crustaceans,  etc. 

50.  Table    1.     Composition    of    Fish,    Mol- 

lusks,  etc. — Continued. 

51.  Study  of  Shell  Fish. 

52.  Proteid  Sparers — Gelatine.     A  Proteid 

Sparer. 

53.  Blank  Page. 

54.  Test  Questions. 


34.  Canned  Fruits. 

35.  Cooked  Eggs. 

36.  Baked  Custards. 

37.  Pasteurized  Milk. 

38.  Cheese  Dishes. 

39.  Frozen  Milk  and  Cream  Mixtures,  Ice 

Cream. 

40.  Meat  Loaf  Mixtures. 

41.  General  Directions  for  Stewing. 

42.  Broiling. 

43.  Proteids,  Tissue  Builders — Methods  of 

Cooking  Meat. 

44.  Proteids,  Tissue  Builders — Methods  of 

Cooking  Meat — Roasting. 

45.  Roast  Chicken. 

46.  Frying — Croquettes. 

47.  Meat  Sauces — General  Directions. 


48.  Different  Ways  of  Preparing  Fish. 

49.  Fish  Sauces. 

50.  Different  Ways  of  Preparing  Fish. 

Fish  Balls — Salmon  Loaf. 

51.  Oysters. 

52.  Gelatine  Desserts. 

53.  Gelatine  Desserts — Continued. 

54.  Practice  Test — Simple  Dinner. 


Fourth  Semester. 


55.  Heat  Producers — Fats  and  Oils. 

56.  Digestion. 

57.  Steaming — General  Directions. 

58.  Bread  and  Bread-Making.     ^ 

59.  Yeast  and  Its  Action. 

60.  Cake  Fillings  and  Frostings. 

61.  Average  Composition  of  American 

Food  Products. 

62.  Average  Composition  of  American 

Food  Products. 

63.  Pastry — General  Directions. 


55.  Bacon — Pan  Broiled. 

56.  Fat  as  a  Frying  Medium — Veal  Cutlets. 

57.  Steamed  Mixtures. 

58.  Rolls. 

59.  Bread-Making. 

60.  Layer  Cakes. 

61.  Cakes  Without  Butter — Sponge  Cake — 

Angel  Food. 

62.  Cookies — Dropped  and  Rolled  Cookies. 

63.  Pie. 


BASIC  PRINCIPLES  OF  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE 

Lessons  A.     Theory.  Lessons  B,    Practice. 

64.  Average      Composition      of     American  64.  Frozen  Fruit  Juice  Mixtures. 

Food  Products — Comparative  Cost  of 
Total  Nutrients  and  Energy  in 
Fruits. 

65.  Jelly-Making.  65.  Cranberry  Sauce  and  Cranberry  Jelly. 

66.  Acid  and  Salt  Supplying  Foods.  66.  Salads. 

67.  Study  of  Beverages.  67.  Beverages. 

68.  General  Rules  Applied  to  Invalid  68.  Invalid  Cookery — ^Liquids — Semi-solids. 

Cookery. 

69.  Dietary  Studies.  69.  Menu  IX.     Menu  X. 

70.  Average  Composition  of  American  70.  Menu  XI. 

Food  Products. 

71.  Test    Questions.  71.  Company  Luncheon  Menus. 

72.  Menus — Continued.  73.  Menus — Continued. 


FOREWORD 


The  aim  of  this  book  is  to  present  the  basic  prin- 
ciples of  Domestic  Science  in  a  course  of  related 
lessons. 

Each  lesson  includes  a  page  presenting  the 
theory  and  a  page  outlining  the  practice,  illustrat- 
ing the  principle  involved.  In  other  words,  the  les- 
sons in  theory  give  the  "what"  and  the  "why" ;  the 
lessons  in  practice,  the  "how." 

The  course  consists  of  seventy-two  illustrated 
lessons,  some  of  which  are  divided  into  two  or  three 
parts,  each  to  be  given  as  a  separate  lesson. 

The  individual  recipes,  planned  specifically  for 
school  use,  may  be  used  to  advantage  wherever  an 
individual  portion  may  be  desired,  or  for  Invalid 
Cookery. 


[Page  8] 


BASIC  PRINCIPLES  OF  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE 


[Lesson  lA] 


UNIFORM 


Each  girl  should  be  provided  with  a  simple  uniform  for  this  work,  as  shown  in  accom- 
panying illustration.  The  uniform  consists  of  a  cap,  apron  and  sleevelets.  A  holder,  band- 
towel'  and  a  bag  in  which  to  carry  the  uniform  back  and  forth  to  school  are  also  needed. 

This  uniform  may  be  made  of  India  lawn,  cambric  or  muslin.  It  requires  ai)out  41/2 
yards  of  material  for  a  medium  sized  girl  and  5  yards  for  a  larger  girl.  The  cap  should  be 
made  to  fit  the  head  closely,  that  all  stray  hairs  may  be  drawn  under  the  cap.  The  apron 
should  be  made  as  long  as  the  dress  with  a  bib  (see  illustration).  The  sleevelets  should  come 
up  above  the  elbow.  A  rTibber  band  may  be  placed  here  and  at  the  wrist,  or,  it  may  be 
finished  with  a  band  at  the  wrist. 


[Lesson  IB]  SANITARY  HOUSEKEEPING  [Page  9] 


THE  CLEAN  HOUSE  IS  THE  HEALTHFUL  HOUSE 

We  all  know  that  a  person  does  not  appear  well  with  soiled  hands  and  face  or  soiled 
clothing,  but  appearance  is  not  the  only  reason  for  keeping  clean,  as  there  are  a  great  many 
kinds  of  dirt  which  cause  serious  sickness  and  even  death.  Most  of  the  cases  of  sickness  in 
our  country  today  are  caused  by  tiny  living  organisms  which  are  called  GERMS  or 
MICROBES,  or  micro-organisms.     They  may  be  classed  as  bacteria,  yeasts  and  molds. 

These  GERMS  are  so  small  that  they  cannot  be  seen  with  the  naked  eye,  yet  they  are 
always  floating  about  in  the  air,  in  the  water,  in  our  food,  on  our  clothing  and  on  the  bodies 
of  both  men  and  animals.     Many  of  these  live  even  in  our  mouths  and  under  our  nails. 

As  GERMS  grow  rapidly  in  unclean  places,  it  is  necessary  to  keep  ourselves  and  our 
surroundings  perfectly  clean  in  order  to  destroy  them.  Anything  which  destroys  these  tiny 
living  organisms  is  called  a  disinfectant.  Men  have  prepared  many  means  of  destroying 
harmful  GERMS,  but  fresh  air,  sunlight  and  cleanliness,  called  Natural  Disinfectants,  are 
the  most  valuable  of  all. 

As  we  go  on  with  these  lessons  we  will  learn  more  about  GERMS.  Perhaps  you  have 
already  learned  something  about  them  in  your  Physiology  lessons. 


NECESSITY  FOR  CLEANLINESS 

One   of   the   most   important   things   for   us   to   learn   in   this   work   is   that   we   must  be 
clean. 

There  are  two  reasons  why  we  should  keep  everything  neat  and  clean:    One,  on  account 
of  looks,  and  the  other  on  account  of  health. 


'  CLEANLINESS  OF  PERSON 

Since  it  is  so  necessary  to  keep  clean  at  all  times,  those  who  are  to  work  in  the  kitchen 
preparing  foods  should  be  especially  careful  to  keep  themselves  clean,  and  to  handle  in  a 
perfectly  clean  way  all  the  food  which  they  prepare. 

It  is  best  to  wear  a  plain,  cotton  dress,  short  enough  to  clear  the  floor,  when  cooking  or 
doing  other  housework.  The  hair  should  be  so  carefully  arranged  that  there  is  no  danger  of 
any  falling  into  the  food.  When  sweeping,  it  should  be  protected  from  the  dust  by  covering 
it  with  a  cap  or  kerchief. 

Before  preparing  any  food,  the  hands  should  be  washed  thoroly  with  soap  and  water; 
the  nails  cleaned  with  a  brush  and  a  wooden  toothpick,  or  a  regular  nail  cleaner.  The  hands 
should  always  be  washed  after  touching  the  hair,  pocket  handkerchief  or  anything  else 
unclean.    No  rings,  bracelets,  etc.,  should  be  worn  in  the  kitchen. 

It  is  a  good  plan  to  have  a  hand  towel  buttoned  on  the  apron  band  while  at  work  in  the 
kitchen.  The  dishes  must  never  be  wiped  on  the  same  towel  which  is  being  used  to  wipe 
the  hands  or  face.  A  tasting  spoon  should  be  near  at  hand,  so  that  a  small  portion  of  the 
food  may  be  put  into  it  from  the  mixing  spoon  for  tasting  purposes.  Never  dip  a  tasting 
^poon  in.to  a  ^ish  of  fqpd  which  is  to  be  served, 


[Page  10]  BASIC  PRINCIPLES  OF  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  [Lesson  2AJ 

SANITARY  HOUSEKEEPING 

CLEANLINESS  OF  ROOM 

SWEEPING 

Object.  The  object  of  sweeping  is  the  removal  of  loose  dirt,  raising  as  little  dust  aa 
possible. 

Dirt  is  anything  unclean.     Example:    Visible  Dirt,  (dust,  grease,  etc.). 

As  commonly  used,  the  word  includes  remnants  of  anything  left  where  they  do  not  belong, 
such  as  sand,  bits  of  paper,  animal  or  vegetable  refuse,  etc. 

Mingled  with  the  dust  and  dirt  is  the  Invisible  live  dust  that  is  composed  of  millions 
of  germs, — called  bacteria,  yeasts,  moulds,  etc., — some  of  them  known  to  cause  diseases,  such 
as  diphtheria,  lock-jaw,  consumption,  typhoid,  grippe,  etc. 

Implements  for  sweeping.  A  long  handled  soft  brush  is  best  for  smooth  floors,  ex, — oiled 
or  waxed  floors.  The  brush  or  broom  covered  with  a  bag  made  of  soft  cloth,  like  Canton 
flannel  or  cheese  cloth,  may  be  used  for  painted  or  polished  floors.  If  the  cloth  is  dampened 
or  oiled  it  will  hold  the  dust  better.  A  common  broom  may  be  used  for  sweeping  ordinary 
floors.  A  small  brush  should  be  used  to  clean  out  the  comers.  A  woolen  cloth  wrung  out  of 
warm  water,  to  which  1  tbsp.  ammonia  to  1  gallon  of  water  has  been  added  will  remove  dust 
from  carpets  and  brighten  them  wonderfully.  A  carpet  sweeper,  which  is  a  brush  with  broom 
action  enclosed  in  a  box,  is  good  for  carpets.  The  box  serves  as  a  dust  pan.  It  is  a  sanitary 
dirt  remover. 

Method.  Begin  at  one  corner  and  sweep  along  the  sides  of  the  room  with  the  grain  of 
the  wood.  Sweep  with  short  strokes,  keeping  the  broom  close  to  the  floor.  Always  sweep 
from  the  sides  of  the  room  toward  the  center,  unless  there  is  some  good  reason  for  doing 
otherwise. 

Collecting.  By  collecting  dust  into  small  piles  rather  than  into  one  large  one  less  dust 
will  rise.  If  the  dust  pan  is  covered  with  a  damp  paper,  so  arranged  that  it  will  stand  a 
little  higher  at  the  back  of  the  dust  pan,  less  dust  will  rise,  as  damp  surfaces  catch  dust. 

Disposal.     Burn  the  sweepings. 

Caution.     Before  beginning  to  sweep,  see  that  no  food  is  left  uncovered  in  the  room. 

Care  of  Sweeping  Utensils.  The  broom  should  be  changed  during  sweeping  and  used  on 
alternate  sides,  as  well  as  on  opposite  corners.  When  not  in  use  it  should  be  hung  up;  the 
lint  and  threads  or  hairs  cleaned  off  every  time  after  using. 

Brooms  should  be  washed  in  hot  soapy  water  once  a  week  to  keep  them  soft  and  pliable, 
and  to  make  them  last  longer. 

DO  NOT  WET  the  tacks  or  wires  on  the  broom  as  they  will  rust  and  break. 

BRUSHES  MAY  BE  WASHED  also.  Use  cold  water  instead  of  hot  water,  on  account  of 
the  glue  with  which  brushes  are  fastened. 

Mvch  labor  can  be  saved  by  habits  of  neatness. 


[Lesson  2B]  DUSTING  [Page  11] 


DUSTING 

Object.  The  object  of  dusting  is  the  removal  of  dust  from  the  house.  Dusting  should  not 
be  done  immediately  after  sweeping — about  2  hours  should  elapse. 

What  to  Use.  USE  A  SOFT  COTTON  CLOTH.  If  new  cloth  is  used  it  should  be 
hemmed  or  overcast,  as  it  ravels  easily  and  the  ravelings  might  catch  and  break  small  articles. 
Old  cloth  does  not  ravel  so  easily.  Cheese  cloth  makes  good  dusters.  It  is  inexpensive  and 
dries  quickly.  Make  dusters  about  %  yds.  square, — for  many  purposes  smaller  ones  are  bet- 
ter.    Have  several  dusters.     Do  not  use  a  feather  duster,  as  it  only  scatters  the  dust. 

Order.     1.  Wood-work.     2.  Furniture.     3.  Movable  articles. 
Dust  the  Mgher  places  first,  then  the  lower  ones. 

Method.  SPREAD  THE  CLOTH  and  gather  the  dust  into  it,  folding  it  in  as  you  work. 
Where  there  are  no  articles  to  be  injured  by  moisture,  the  cloth  should  be  dampened  or  oiled, 
as  it  will  hold  the  dust  plants. 

Care  of  Dust  Cloths.  Dust  cloths  should  be  washed  thoroly  each  time  after  using.  Wash 
the  cloths  in  warm  soapy  water,  scald  in  clean  soapy  water,  rinse  in  clear  water.  Wring  as 
dry  as  possible  and  hang  them  to  dry  with  the  ends  pulled  evenly.  Dry  out  of  doors  in  the 
sun  if  possible.  Why?  Why  scald?  When  dry,  fold  and  put  them  in  the  drawer  where  they 
belong.     Have  a  place  for  everything  and  everything  in  its  place. 

Care  of  Dish  Cloths  and  Towels. — Dish  cloths  and  towels  should  be  washed,  rinsed  and 
dried  each  time  after  using;  scalded  often  and  dried  out  of  doors  when  possible.  A  damp  dish 
cloth  breeds  disease. 

Badly  Soiled  Cloths,  Towels,  etc.,  should  be  soaked  to  cleanse  them  thoroly.  Wet  the 
soiled  portions,  rub  them  with  soap,  roll  up  tightly,  place  in  a  pail  or  pan,  cover  with  soapy 
water,  and  let  stand  one  hour  or  more.  Wash  in  this  water,  then  scald  in  clean  soapy  water, 
and  rinse  in  clear  water.  Wash  and  hang  up  the  cloths  with  the  ends  pulled  evenly  together. 
Try  soaking  soiled  cloths  in  cold  water  to  which  the  juice  of  a  lemon  has  been  added.  Heat 
slowly  to  boiling  point.     Proceed  according  to  above  directions. 

NOTES: 


[Page  12]  BASIC  PRINCIPLES  OF  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  [Lesson  3 A] 

WASHING  DISHES.    CARE  OF  DISHES 

Directions  for  Dish  Washing. 

Preparation. 

1.  Collect  and  scrape  all  dishes  to  be  washed. 

2.  Pile  all  articles  of  each  kind  together, — plates  by  themselves,  the  largest  at  the  bottom; 

silver  articles  together,  and  steel  knives  and  forks  by  themselves,  etc. 

3.  Make  ready  two   pans,— fill  one  half  full  of  hot  soapy  water  for  washing,  and  the 

other  half  full  of  clear  hot  water  for  rinsing. 
NOTE. — Work  is  made  much  easier  if  saucepans  and  other  cooking  dishes  are  washed  as 
soon  as  used.     If  soaking  is  necessary,  fill  with  water  as  soon  as  emptied. 

Soaking  Dishes. 

COLD  water  should  be  used  for  dishes  which  have  been  used  for  milk,  eggs  and  starchy 

foods. 
HOT  water  should  be  used  for  dishes  used  for  sugary  substances,  and  for  sticky,  gummy 

substances,  like  gelatine. 
GREASY  DISHES  of  all  kinds,  including  knives,  are  more  easily  cleaned  if  first  wiped 

with  soft  paper.     This  paper  may  be  used  for  kindling. 


Order. 


1.  Glassware.     2.  Silver.     3.  Cups  and  saucers.     4.  Plates.     5.  Platters,  vegetable  dishes, 
6.  Cooking  utensils  (if  not  washed  first). 


Method. 

1.  Wash  dishes  in  hot,  soapy  water.  Cut  glass  is  liable  to  crack  in  hot  or  cold  water,  so 
warm  should  be  used.  2.  Rinse  in  clear  hot  water.  3.  Drain.  4.  Wipe  dry  with 
clean  tea  towels.  In  putting  dishes  away,  hang  up  what  can  be  hung,  and  place 
other  dishes  upside  down  to  keep  out  dust. 

General  Instructions. 

In  putting  glasses  into  hot  water,  they  should  be  dipped  in  edgewise,  so  that  both  the 
outside  and  inside  are  heated  together.     This  will  prevent  their  cracking. 

The  handles  of  knives,  if  of  wood,  bone,  ivory  or  pearl,  should  not  be  put  into  the  water, 
as  they  ai'e  liable  to  split.     They  should  be  wiped  with  a  wet,  and  then  with  a  dry  cloth. 

A  soft,  thin  dish  cloth  is  better  for  glass  and  silver,  but  coarser,  thicker  material  may  be 
used  for  other  dishes.  Wash  every  part,  outside  and  inside,  of  every  dish,  with  the 
cloth.  If  the  dish  is  too  small  to  allow  the  hand  to  go  in,  as  in  some  pitchers,  a 
mop  may  be  used. 

NOTE. — Greasy  dish  cloths  and  towels  furnish  a  most  favorable  soil  for  germ  growth. 
A  greasy  dish  cloth  hung  up  in  a  dark  place  is  dangerous.  No  damp  article  should  be  stored 
in  the  dark.     Dish  cloths  and  towels  should  be  scalded  and  dried  in  the  sun. 

NOTES: 


[IieBson  3B] 


MEASURING 


[Page  13] 


Correct  Measurements  are  absolutely  necessary  to  insure  successful  results  in  cooking. 

FLOUR,  MEAL,  POWDERED  and  CONFECTIONERS'  SUGAR  and  SODA  should  be 
sifted  before  measuring.  MUSTARD  and  BAKING  POWDER  often  settle  in  the  cans,  there- 
fore should  be  stirred  to  lighten.  SALT  lumps  easily  and  the  lumps  should  be  broken  before 
measuring.  These  should  be  put  into  the  measure  with  a  scoop  or  spoon  and  not  packed  hard. 
See  Fig.  1. 

ALL  MATERIALS  ARE  TO  BE  MEASURED  LEVEL,  the  leveling  to  be  done  with  a 
case-knife.     See  Fig.  2. 

To  measure  BUTTER,  LARD,  etc.,  pack  solidly  into  the  cup  or  spoon,  and  make  level 
with  a  knife.     If  the  fat  is  very  hard,  cut  it  into  small  pieces  before  measuring. 

To  measure  a  spoonful  of  any  DRY  SUBSTANCE,  dip  the  spoon  into  the  substance,  fill  it, 
lift  it,  and  level  it  with  a  knife. 

For  HALF  a  spoonful  divide  lengthwise.     See  Fig.  3. 

For  a  QUARTER  of  a  spoonful  divide  the  half  crosswise.     See  Fig.  4. 

For  an  EIGHTH  spoonful  divide  the  quarter  diagonally.     See  Fig.  5. 

Less  than  ONE-EIGHTH  of  a  teaspoonful  is  considered  a  few  grains. 

A  CUPFUL  of  liquid  is  all  the  cup  can  hold. 

A  TEA  or  TABLESPOONFUL  of  liquid  is  all  the  spoon  can  hold. 


ABBREVIATIONS. 

tsp teaspoonful 

tbsp tablespoonful 

c cupful 

pt pint 

qt quart 

oz ounce 

lb pound 

min.. minutes 

h hour 


EQUIVALENTS. 

3  tsp equal     1  tbsp. 

*4  tbsp equal  ^  c. 

2  c equal     1  pt. 

2  pts equal     1  qt. 

4  qts equal     1  galloa 

4  0  (about)  of  flour         equal     1  lb. 

2  0.   of   sugar equal     1  lb. 

*16  tbsp.  of  dry  ingredients  equal  1  c. 
12  tbsp.  of  liquid         "         equal  1  c. 


FIGURE  1. 


FIGURE  2. 


FIGURE  5. 


Next  to  measuring  comes  CARE  IN  COMBINING. 

THREE  WAYS  are  considered:— Stirring,  Beating,  Cutting  and  Folding. 

.  To  Stir. — ^Mix  by  using  circular  motion;  widening  the  circles  until  all  is  mixed. 

To  Beat. — ^Turn  ingredients  over  and  over,  continually  bringing  the  under  part  to  the 
surface. 

To  Cut  and  Fold. — Combine  one  ingredient  with  another  ingredient  or  mixture  by  two 
motions  with  a  spoon,  a  repeated  vertical  downward  motion,  known  as  CUTTING,  and  a  turn- 
ing over  and  over  of  mixture,  allowing  bowl  of  spoon  each  time  to  come  in  contact  with  bot- 
tom of  dish,  called  FOLDING. 

BY  STIRRING,  ingredients  are  mixed. 

BY  BEATING,  a  large  amount  of  air  is  enclosed. 

BY  CUTTING  AND  FOLDING,  air  already  introduced  is  prevented  from  escaping. 


[Page  14]  BASIC  PEINCpLES  OF  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  [Lesson  4A] 


WATER 

DEFINITION.— Pure  water  is  an  odorless,  colorless,  tasteless,  transparent  liquid. 

COMPOSITION. — Pure  water  is  composed  of  two  parts  hydrogen,  and  one  part  oxygen. — Hi  O. 

SOURCES.— (1)  Lake.     (2)  Rain.      (3)  Spring.      (4)  Well.      (5)  River. 

USE. — Water  is  necessary  to  life  and  health.  It  constitutes  about  three-fourths  of  the  weight 
of  the  human  body. 

USES  IN  THE  BODY.— (1)  To  quench  thirst.  (2)  To  regulate  temperature.  (3)  To  aid 
digestion.  (4)  To  thin  blood.  (5)  To  assist  circulation.  (6)  To  stimulate  nervous  sys- 
tem.    (7)   For  medicinal  purposes.      (8)   To  help  carry  off  waste  matter. 

USES  WITHOUT  THE  BODY.— (1)  For  cooking  purposes.     (2)  For  cleaning  purposes. 

TEMPERATURES.— Boiling,  212  deg.  F.  Simmering,  185  deg.  F.  Scalding,  100  deg.  F.  plus. 
Warm,  92  deg.-lOO  deg.  F.  Tepid,  65  deg.-92  deg.  F.  Cold,  32  deg.-65  deg.  F.  Freez- 
ing, 32  deg.  F. 

IMPURE  WATER  IS  DANGEROUS,  and,  like  dust,  contains  germs. 

BOILING  THE  WATER  ten  minutes  will  kill  the  germs.  The  water  is  then  sterilized.  To 
sterilize  means  to  free  from  germs.  To  restore  the  flavor  of  boiled  water,  re-introduce 
air  by  pouring  the  water  several  times  from  one  pitcher  to  another.  Freezing  does  not 
kill  the  germs, — only  checks  the  growth. 

WATER  STANDING  in  lead  pipes  over  night,  or  any  length  of  time,  may  take  up  some  of 
the  lead  and  therefore  it  should  be  drawn  off  before  any  water  is  taken  for  use. 

NEVER  USE  the  water  drawn  off  the  hot  water  faucet  for  cooking  or  drinking  purposes. 

HOT  WATER  is  more  likely  to  take  up  the  particles  of  lead  than  cold  water. 

THE  BODY  needs  about  two  quarts  of  cold  water  daily,  and  about  half  of  that  is  supplied  in 
the  food. 

ALL  FOOD  SUBSTANCES  contain  more  or  less  water,  no  matter  how  dry  they  may  appear. 

MANY  FRUITS  AND  VEGETABLES  contain  a  large  amount  of  water,  with  just  enough  solid 
matter  to  give  them  form.     Today  we  are  going  to  use  water  as  a  cooking  medium. 

NOTE. — Heat  expands,  cold  contracts  water;   exception:  water  expands  just  before  freezing. 

NOTES: 


[Lesson  4B] 


VEGETABLES 


[Page  15] 


Boiled   Cauliflower  and   Carrots 
VEGETABLES 

VEGETABLES  are  chiefly  valuable  for  the  pure  water  and  mineral  matter  they  con- 
tain,  which  act  asi  a  tonic  to  the  system. 

riiey  also  contain  cellulose  or  wood-fibre,  which  stimulates  the  digestive  organs  to  carry 
on  their  work.  The  cellulose  is  useful  in  stimulating  the  intestines  so  that  their  contents  art 
kept  constantly  moving.  Some  vegetables  contain  starch,  sugar  and  otlier  substances.  Peas, 
beans,  and  lentils,  are  tissue  builders  and  may  be  used  in  place  of  meat,  eggs,  etc.  Lettuce 
and  celery  have  a  juice  that  is  soothing  to  the  nerves.  Celery  if  taken  in  large  enough  quan- 
tities is  considered  a  cure  for  rheumatism.  Spinach  contains  iron,  etc.  Therefore  it  is  well 
to  eat  many  different  kinds  of  vegetables  in  order  to  sujjply  the  body  with  the  different  kinds 
of  mineral  matter  and  acids  they  contain. 

General  Rules  for  Cooking  Vegetables. 

(1)  Wash  thoroly.  (2)  Pare,  peel  or  scrape,  if  skins  must  be  removed.  (3)  Soak  in  cold 
water  until  ready  to  cook — (to  keep  crisp  or  to  freshen  if  wilted  or  to  prevent  discolor atioft). 
(4)  Cook  in  freshly  boiling,  salted  water  until  tender.  (5)  Drain  off  the  water;  shake  over 
fire;  serve  hot  with  SEASONINGS. — To  1  c.  cooked  vegetables,  add  2  tbsp.  butter,  %  tsp.  salt, 
and  1-16  tsp.  pepper,  or  serve  with  a  White  Sauce. — See  Lesson  7.  Vegetables  may  be  reheated 
over  hot  water  in  a  double  boiler. 

Notes. 

Allow  1  tsp.  salt  to  1  qt.  water. 

Use  enough  boiling  water  to  cover  vegetables. 

Salt  may  be  added  when  vegetables  are  put  in,  except  in  the  case  of  delicate  green 
vegetables,  as  peas,  spinach,  etc.,  when  it  should  not  be  added  until  the  vegetables  are  nearly 
done. 

To  preserve  the  color  of  green  vegetables  cook  uncovered. 

Cabbage,  onions  and  turnips  should  be  cooked  uncovered  in  a  large  quantity  of  water;  by 
changing  the  water  once  or  twice  during  the  cooking,  much  of  the  strong  odor  and  flavor  may 
be  lost.  If  dried  bread  be  tied  in  a  cheese  cloth  and  placed  on  top  of  vegetables  it  partialfy 
absorbs  the  odor. 

Water  in  which  vegetables  have  been  cooked  is  called  Veg.  Stock,  and  may  be  used  as  a 
basis  for  soups,  sauces,  etc. 

Peel  onions  under  cold  water  to  avoid  irritating  the  eyes.  Wash  all  the  utensils  in  cold 
water  without  soap  to  remove  onion  odor. 

Winter  vegetables  should  be  kept  in  a  cool,  dark,  dry  place. 

Fresh  vegetables  may  be  washed  and  kept  on  ice  in  a  clean  piece  of  chaesecloth.  Be 
sure  that  the  cloth  is  washed  and  scalded  frequently. 

Time  Table  for  Cooking  Vegetables  in  Water. 


Potatoes     25-30  m. 

Carrots    35-45  m. 

Turnips   45  m. 

Beets    (young) 45  m. 

Beets    (old) 3-4  hrs. 

Tomatoes 1-3  hrs. 


Onions    46-60  m. 

Cabbage    45-60  m. 

Cauliflower 20-30  m. 

Asparagus   20-40  m. 

Spinach   30-45  m. 

Celery   20-30  m. 


Parsnips   30-45  m. 

Green    Peas 30-45  m. 

String  Beans    1-3  hrs. 

Lima  Beans..  1  hr.  or  more 

Green  Corn   12-20  m. 

Rice     20-45  m. 


[Page  16]  BASIC  PRINCIPLES  OF  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  [Lesson  5A] 

WATER  AS  A  STERILIZING  MEDIUM 
FOOD  PRESERVATION 

To  PRESERVE  means  to  save  from  decay  by  the  use  of  some  preservative  agent. 

Certain  Bacteria  cause  the  decay  of  foods.  .: 

Food  is  preserved  when  it  is  subjected  to  such  treatment  as  will  kill  the  germs  or  check 
their  growth  and  make  them  inactive. 

As  we  know  that  moderate  heat,  food  and  moisture  are  favorable  conditions  for  their 
growth,  opposite  conditions  will  hinder  their  growth, — that  is,  to  keep  food  cold, — dry  it, — or 
cook  it.  ' 

The  methods  usually  used  are : — 

1.  Cold  StoragC^Freezing  checks  the  growth  of  bacteria  as  long  as  they  are  in  a 
frozen  condition.  MEAT  and  FISH  may  be  kept  indefinitely  while  frozen.  They  should  not 
be  allowed  to  thaw  out  until  shortly  before  using,  as  they  are  more  susceptible  to  the  action 
of  bacteria,  and  spoil  more  quickly  than  similar  foods  which  have  not  been  frozen.  EGGS 
and  FRUIT  may  be  kept  several  months  by  cold  storage,  in  dry  air  just  above  the  freezing 
point.     VEGETABLES  are  kept?  in  cold  storage.     MILK  is  sent  frozen  in  large  quantities,  etc. 

2.  Drying. — Bacteria  require  moisture,  so  food  is  dried  in.order  to  prevent  their  growth. 
Dried  fruits  contain  more  water  than  dried  meats  or  fish,  but  this  small  amount  remains  safe 

by  the  antiseptic  properties  of  the  acids  in  the  fruits,  and  they  are  also  preserved  by  the 
natural  sugar  in  fruits. 

3.  Salting. — Salt  has  a  tendency  to  absorb  moisture  from  the  bacteria,  so  they  cannot 
thrive  in  food  that  is  corned  or  salted.  Salt  does  not  kill  bacteria  but  prevents  their 
growth. 

4.  Preserving  with  Sugar. — Sugar,  like  salt,  has  a  tendency  to  absorb  moisture  from  the 
bacteria,  therefore  they  cannot  grow  in  a  thick  syrup,  though  molds  may  grow  on  top. — 
Example:  jams,  marmalades,  jellies,  etc, 

5.  Smoking. — Meats  and  fish  are  usually  salted,  then  smoked,  (the  products  of  combiis- 
tion  are  antiseptic).  These  antiseptics  are  germ  killers,  but  do  not  penetrate  the  flesh, 
remairring  on  the  outside,  so  disease  germs  on  the  inside  are  not  killed.  It  is  therefore 
unsafe  to  eat  uncooked  meat  in  any  form. 

6.  Pickling. — Few  kinds  of  bacteria  can  grow  in  acids,  so  vinegar  is  used  for  pickling. 

7.  Chemical  Treatment. — Many  of  the  antiseptics  used  on  food,  called  "preservatives," 
are  harmful.  These  are  often  used  in  canning  factories,  and  by  dealers  in  milk,  meat,  and 
other  foods. 

8.  Canning. — ^^Canning  is  preserving  sterilized  food  in  sterilized,  air-tight  jars.  The 
temperature  of  boiling  water,  sometimes  a  lower  temperature,  kills  the  bacteria.  Canning  ia 
considered  the  best  method  of  preserving  food. 

NOTES: 


[Lesson  5B] 


CANNING 


[Page  17] 


CANNED  VEGETABLES 


DIRECTIONS  FOR  CANNING  VEGETABLES. 

Canning  should  be  done  in  a  well-kept  room — one  as  free  as  possible  from  dust  and  dirt 

Select  only  sound  and  fresh  vegetables. 

Examine  jars  by  filling  them  half  full  with  water,  adjust  rubbers,  screw  on  tops,  turn 
upside  down  and  see  if  they  are  air-tight. 

How  to  sterilize  jars,  etc.  Sterilize  the  jars  and  covers  by  putting  them  edgewise  into 
a  pan  containing  cold  water.  Heat  slowly  to  boiling  point  and  let  boil  ten  minutes.  Keep 
the  jars  and  covers  in  the  hot  water  till  ready  for  use. 

Dip  rubber  bands  into  hot  water,  but  do  not  injure  them  by  boiling.  New  rubbers  should 
oe  used  each  season. 

Prepare  the  vegetables.     Wash,  pare  or  peel,  and  cut  in  pieces,  if  necessary. 

Fill  the  jars  with  the  vegetables,  cover  to  overflowing  with  water  that  has  been  boiled, 
salted  and  cooled. 

Place  the  sterilized  rubbers  on  and  adjust  covers,  but  do  not  screw  them  down — the 
steam  must  have  an  outlet. 

Place  the  jars  on  a  rest,  or  on  a  folded  cloth,  or  on  several  layers  of  paper  in  a  large 
kettle  or  wash  boiler.  Add  enough  cold  water  to  reach  the  neck  of  jars.  Cover  the  kettle; 
heat  gradually  to  boiling  point,  and  boil  according  to  time-table. 

Take  jars  out,  screw  down  the  covers  securely.     Place  jars  upside  down. 

NOTE. — If  full  jars  are  desired,  immediately  after  steaming  the  covers  may  be  taken  oflF 
and  the  jars  filled  to  overflowing  with  boiling  salted  water.  Then  readjust  covers  and  screw 
down  securely. 

TIME  TABLE. 

KIND  METHOD  TIME 

TOMATOES    Sterilization  or  Canning One  hour 

STRING    BEANS "  "       

PEAS    "  "       

CORN    "  "       

ASPARAGUS    "  "       


Three  hours 

Three  to  four  hours 

Four  to  five  hours 

Three  hours    May  be 

boiled  five  minutes  before  putting  in  cans. 


[Page  18]  BASIC  PRINCJIPLES  OF  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  [Lesson  ?A] 

WATER  AS  A  CLEANING  AGENT 

Water  is  the  most  important  of  all  cleaning  agents.  It  dissolves  more  substances  than 
any  other  liquid. 

Water  for  domestic  use  is  either  hard  or  soft,  according  to  the  amounts  of  soluble  salts 
which  it  contains.  These  are  usually  compounds  of  lime  or  magnesia.  Water  not  naturally 
soft  should  be  softened  by  boiling  or  the  addition  of  a  softening  agent,  ex, — washing  soda, 
borax,  ammonia,  potash  or  soda  lye. 

If  washing  soda  is  used  do  not  add  more  than  2  ounces  to  a  tub  of  water. 

Too  much  should  not  be  used,  as  it  injures  the  hands  and  any  fabric  which  may  be 
washed  in  it. 

If  borax  is  used,  not  more  than  ^  pound  to  a  tub  of  water  should  be  used. 

Ammonia  is  considered  one  of  the  best  agents  for  softening  water. 

CARE  OF  REFRIGERATOR,  ETC. 

The  Refrigerator  should  be  kept  scrupulously  clean  in  every  part 

Anything  spilled  should  be  wiped  up  at  once.  The  refrigerator  should  be  examined 
daily  so  that  no  food  is  left  to  spoil  and  cause  bad  odors.  All  waste  and  overflow  pipes 
become  foul  with  grease,  dust,  lint,  etc.,  if  not  well  cared  for,  and  often  fill  the  whole  house 
with  contaminated  air,  thereby  endangering  health. 

N"o  hot  food  should  be  put  into  the  refrigerator. 

^o  food  with  strong  odor  should  be  put  into  the  refrigerator,  unless  necessary,  and  then 
it  should  be  tightly  covered. 

Milk  and  butter  absorb  odors  quickly,  and  therefore  should  be  kept  tightly  covered. 

Once  a  week,  at  least,  every  part  of  the  refrigerator  should  be  washed  with  borax,  soda, 
or  ammonia  water,  using  a  small  mop  or  whisk  broom  and  a  skewer. 

To  clean  the  pipe  thoroly,  use  a  cloth  over  a  wire.  Wipe  as  dry  as  possible,  and  leave 
refrigerator  open  to  dry  thoroly. 

If  possible,  dry  all  movable  parts  in  the  sun  or  near  th^  fire. 

Care  of  the  Sink. — The  SINK  should  be  k6pt  scrupulously  clean  at  all  times. 

Neglect  causes  bad  odors,  attracts  roaches,  etc.,  and  often  causes  disease. 

It  is  advisable  to  have  a  fine  strainer  over  the  regular  sink  strainer  to  catch  crumbs  or 
anything  that  might  clog  the  pipe.  After  pouring  soiled  water  into  the  pipe,  pour  clean 
water  into  it  so  that  clean  water  may  be  left  in  the  trap.  Wash  all  parts  of  the  sink  with 
soapsixds  or  1  tbsp.  sal-soda  added  to  the  water  (sal-soda  prepared  by  using  %  cupful  of 
soda  to  %  gallon  of  water),  or  l^  can  of  Babbit's  potash  dissolved  in  1  qt.  of  water.  Should 
sink  pipe  become  clogged,  pour  into  waste  pipe  %  lb.  copperas  dissolved  in  2  qts.  boiling 
water.     Repeat  if  necessary. 

Scrubbing  Boards  and  Tables. — ^Remove  all  crumbs,  etc.,  and  wipe  off  the  table  with  a 
wet  cloth.  Use  no  more  water  than  necessary.  Dip  a  brush  into  water,  then  into  Dutch 
Cleanser,  or  rub  Sapolio  on  it.  Scrub  with  the  grain  of  the  wood.  Thoroly  rinse  off  the 
suds.  Rinse  the  cloth,  wring  it  thoroly,  and  wipe  the  table  or  board  as  dry  as  possible.  Let 
no  dirt  collect  in  seams  or  cracks;  remove  with  a  skewer. 

Grease  spots  may  be  removed  by  covering  them  with  borax  or  ammonia,  allowing  it  to 
stand  a  few  hours  before  scrubbing  with  sand  soap. 

NOTES: 


tLesson  6B] 


DlFFiERENT  WAYS  OP  PHEPARING  VEGETABLES 


tPage  19] 


PEAS  AND  CARROTS. 

1  c.  cubed  carrots  2  Jevel  tbsp,  butter  1-16  tsp.  pepper 

1  c.  cooked  green  peas  %  level  tsp.  salt 

Wash,  scrape  and  cut  young  carrots  in  cubes.    Cook  in  boiling  salted  water  until  soft. 
Drain,  add  the  peas  and  season  with  butter,  salt  and  pepper. 

The  carrots  may  be  cut  into  carrot  cups,  by  cutting  thick  slices  and  scooping  out  the 
inside  before  cooking.     Serve  the  peas  in  the  cups. 


SUCCOTASH. 

1  c.  sweet  com  1  or  2  tbsp.  butter 

1  c.  cooked  shelled  beans  V2  tsp.  salt. 

Mix  corn  and  beans.     Heat.     Season.     Serve  hot. 
One  cup  hot  milk  may  be  added. 


■  Ys  tsp.  pepper 


CORN  OYSTERS. 

1  c.  sweet  corn  (drained)       %  e.  flour  or  y^c.  breadcrumbs         1-16  tsp.  pepper 

1  well-beaten  egg  %  tsp.  salt,  or  more,  to  taste 

Mix  in  order  given.  Shape  to  imitate  oysters.  Cook  on  a  well-greased  griddle.  Brown 
on  one  side;  turn,  and  brown  on  the  other.  This  mixture  may  be  baked.  The  yolk  and 
white  should  then  be  beaten  separately.     Green  pepper  may  be  added  to  it. 

SPANISH  FRITTERS. 

1  c.  corn  %  c.  flour  2  eggs  beaten  separately 

%  c.  milk  y2  tsp.  baking  powder  1  Spanish  pepper 

Mix  in  order  given,  folding  in  the  beaten  whites.     Fry  spoonfuls  in  deep  fat. 


STUFFED  TOMATOES. 


1-16  tsp.  pepper 


6  medium-sized  tomatoes  2  tbsp.  melted  butter 

1  c.  cracker  or  soft  bread  crumbs         1  tsp.  salt 

Wash  tomatoes.  Cut  thin  slice  from  stem  end  of  each.  Take  out  seeds  and  pulp  and 
drain  off  most  of  the  liquid.  Mix  the  crumbs,  butter  and  the  seasonings;  add  to  the  tomato 
pulp.  Add  more  seasonings  if  necessary.  Sprinkle  inside  of  tomato  cup  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Refill  the  tomatoes  with  the  mixture;  replace  tops.  Place  in  a  buttered  pan,  sprinkle  with 
buttered  crumbs  and  bake  twenty  minutes  in  a  hot  oven. 

Chopped  meat,  oysters,  green  peppers,  sweet  corn  or  celery  may  be  added  to  the  stuflBng. 


[Page  20]  BASIC  PRINCIPLES  OF  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  [Lesson  tk] 

WATER  AS  A  CLEANING  AGENT— Continued 
CARE  OF  UTENSILS 

TINWARE. — ^Wash  tinware  in  hot,  soapy  water.  Remove  grease  and  food  waste  from 
all  seams  with  a  wooden  tooth  pick  or  skewer  or  a  stiff  brush.  If  discolored,  boil  out  in 
water  containing  washing  soda.     Polish  with  whiting  or  tripoli. 

IRONWARE. — Wash  ironware  in  hot,  soapy  water.  Use  a  wire  dish  cloth  to  remove 
food  that  sticks  or  is  burnt  on.  Pumice  stone  or  Sapolio  may  be  used  in  removing  rough 
spots.  After  washing  and  wiping,  dry  thoroly  by  placing  kettles  on  the  back  of  the  range 
or  in  the  sun  before  putting  away.  Before  using  a  new  iron  kettle  grease  inside  and  outside 
and  let  stand  two  days;  then  wash  in  hot  water  to  which  a  lump  of  cooking  soda  has  been 
added. 

Iron  and  Steel  not  in  use  should  be  rubbed  with  an  oily  substance — oil,  lard  or  vaseline. 

Rust,  if  not  too  deep,  can  be  removed  from  iron  or  steel  with  kerosene. 

BRASS   and   COPPER. — Wash  in   hot   soapy   water.     Rub  with   flannel  dipped  in  lemon 

juice  or  vinegar,  then  apply  rotten-stone  and  oil  and  polish  with  a  dry  cloth;  or  apply 
putz  pomade  (which  is  a  mixture  of  whiting,  oil  and  acid)  with  a  woolen  cloth,  rub  off 
with  a  second  woolen  cloth  and  polish  with  a  third  one. 

AGATE  and  ENAMEL  WARE.— Wash  in  hot  soapy  water.  Clean  seams  with  a  wooden 
tooth  pick  or  skewer.  Rough  places  may  be  removed  wit!i  a  piece  of  pumice  stone — ordinary 
stains  with  Sapolio  or  Dutch  Cleanser.  A  small  scrubbing  brush  may  be  used  in  cleaning 
enamel  ware. 

STEEL  KNIVES  and  FORKS. — Dampen  a  cork,  a  piece  of  woojen  cloth  or  cotton  waste 
and  dip  into  pulverized  sapolio,  Bristol  brick,  tripoli,  or  Dutch  Cleanser.  Rub  the  blades 
or  tines  briskly,  first  on  one  side,  then  on  the  other,  until  stains  are  removed.  Dip  quickly 
into  hot  soapy  water  and  dry  at  once. 

SILVERWARE. — Dampen  a  soft  cloth,  dip  into  fine  whiting  and  apply  to  the  silver. 
When  the  whiting  has  dried,  rub  it  off  with  a  soft  cloth  and  polish  with  a  chamois  skin.  Rub 
egg-stained  spoons  and  other  badly  tarnished  articles  with  salt  before  washing  them  in  water 
to  which  ammonia  has  been  added.  The  chlorine  of  the  salt  combines  with  the  tarnish  and 
forms  a  compound  soluble  in  ammonia. 

STOVE  or  RANGE.— Wipe  off  with  soft  paper.  Use  Sapolio  to  rub  off  rough  spots.  To 
keep  it  black  and  clean,  wipe  it  daily  with  a  few  drops  of  kerosene  on  a  cloth. 

ZINC. — Clean  zinc  with  a  little  kerosene  rubbed  on  with  a  flannel  cloth,  or  with  electro- 
silicon  on  a  damp  cloth.     Polish  with  dry  flannel. 

NOTES: 


[Lesson  7B] 


USES  FOR  STALE  BREAD 


[Page  21] 


DRY  TOAST.— Cut  stale  bread  into  i/i-inch  slices.  Crust  may  or  may  not  be  taken  off. 
Put  slices  in  a  wire  toaster,  lock  toaster  and  place  over  a  clear  fire  to  dry,  holding  some  dis- 
tance from  coals,  luru  and  dry  other  side.  Hold  nearer  and  color  to  a  golden  brown. 
Toast,  if  piled  compaclly  and  allowed  to  stand,  soon  becomes  moist.  Toast  may  be  buttered 
at  table  or  before  sending  to  table.  Toasted  bread  is  considered  to  be  more  easily  digested 
than  fresh  bread,  because  in  toasting  some  of  the  starch  is  changed  into  dextrine.  ITeat  of 
320  degrees  F.  is  necessary  to  dextrinize  starch. 

WATER  TOAST.— Dip  the  toasted  slices  into  boiling  salted  water  (%  tsp.  salt  to  1  c. 
boiling  water),  using  a  fork.     Spread  with  butter  and  serve. 

MILK  TOAST.— Dip  the  toasted  slices  into  WHITE  SAUCE.  When  soft  remove  to 
serving  dish.  Pour  remaining  sauce  over  all.  For  six  slices  of  toast  use  one  pint  White  Sauce. 
THIN  WHITE  SAUCE— 

1  pt.  scalded  milk  2%  tbsp.  cold  water  2  tbsp.  butter  (if  hked) 

21/0  tbsp.  flour  1/0  tsp.  salt 

Mix  the  cold  water  and  flour  until  perfectly  smooth.  Add  more  cold  water  until  thin 
enough  to  pour  gradually  into  the  hot  milk.  Cook,  stirring  all  tlie  time,  until  thickened. 
Boil  5  minutes.  Add  butter  and  salt.  If  cooked  in  a  double  boiler,  cook  20  minutes  in  order 
to  thoroughly  cook  the  starch. 


EGGS  A  LA  GOLDEN  ROD. 

EGGS  A  LA  GOLDEN  ROD. — Prepare  milk  toast,  adding  the  chopped  whites  of  three 
hard  cooked  eggs  to  the  sauce.  Force  the  yolks  thru  a  strainer  and  sprinkle  over  the  top. 
Garnish  with  parsley. 

CREAM  TOAST. — Dip  the  toasted  slices  into  hot  cream.  Put  on  serving  dish  and  pour 
hot  cream  over  the  slices. 


CROUSTADES. 


CROUSTaDES  of  bread.— Cut  stale  bread  into  four-inch  slices.  Cut  in  diamonds, 
squares  or  circles.  Remove  centers  by  cutting  with  a  knife,  leaving  baskets  or  cases.  Fry  in 
deep  fat  or  brush  over  with  melted  butter  and  brown  in  oven.  Fill  with  creamed  fish,  meat 
or  vegetables. 

All  pieces  of  bread  should  be  saved  and  used.  Keep  pieces  of  stale  bread  by  themselves 
in  a  jar  or  covered  bowl.  Large  pieces  are  best  for  toast.  Dry  remnants  of  bread  in  a  warm 
oven  until  they  are  crisp  but  not  brown.  Crush  them  with  a  rolling  pin  (kept  for  this 
purpose),  sift  and  keep  them  in  a  jar.  These  are  called  dry  bread  crumbs,  and  are  useful 
for  crumbing,  croquettes,  cutlets,  fish,  meat,  and  scalloped  dishes. 

Stale  hread  crumbs  not  dried  are  suitable  for  puddings,  griddle  cakes,  omelets,  and  some 
scalloped  dishes. 


[Page  22]  BASIC  PRIXCIPLES  OF  DOMESTIC  SaENCE  [Lesson  SA] 

WATER  AS  A  MEANS  OF  CARRYING  AWAY  WASTE  MATTER 
WATER  CARRIAGE  SYSTEM— PLUMBING 

In  cities  where  there  is  a  generous  supply  of  water,  waste  water,  refuse,  etc.,  are  carried 
throuo-h  pipes  by  means  of  water  into  a  sewer.  This  is  called  a  water-carriage  system  of 
drainage,  and,  as  shown  in  illustration,  requires  fixtures. 

SINK. 

Construction. — Enameled  iron,  porcelain  or  soapstone  are  the  best  materials  for  a  sink. 
The  drainboards  should  be  of  the  same  material.  Wood  is  not  desirable,  as  it  is  highly 
absorbent  and  hard  to  keep  clean.  The  drainboards  should  slope  toward  ihe  sink,  and  the 
sink  should  slope  towards  the  waste  pipe. 

Parts  below  the  sink  are: 


1.  WASTE  PIPE,  11/4  to  2  inches  in  diameter. 

2.  SOIL  PIPE,  4  to  5  inches  in  diameter, 

3.  DRAIN  PIPE,  5  to  6  inches  in  diameter. 
4  SEWER  PIPE. 


VP 


SINK 


SOIL  PIPE 


The  whole  system  of  pipes  is  called  the  sewerage  of  the  house;  the  contents  are  called 
the  sewage,  and  the  main  big  pipe  that  receives  all  the  sewage  is  called  the  sewer. 

The  pipes  carry  off  decomposable  matter,  and  the  results  of  decomposition  are  gases.  In 
this  case  they  are  called  sewer  gases. 

The  waste  pipe  has  a  bend  in  it  called  a  TRAP.  This  is  filled  with  the  last  water  poured 
into  the  sink.  The  object  of  the  beiul  is  to  retain  a  sufficient  quantity  of  clean  water  to 
prevent  gases  from  escaping  up  from  the  drain  into  the  house. 

The  water  the  heiul  eciniaiiis  is  ealled  a  WATER  SEAL.  The  clean  water  in  the  bend 
acts  as  a  seal,  preventing  gases  from  returning. 

Cood  plumbing  requires  that  the  trnp  bo  iio.u  t!ic  fixture,  that  as  little  space  as  possible 
be  left  unprotected. 

Always  have  clean  water  in  the  trap,     WHiy? 

If  the  sink  is  left  unused  for  any  length  of  time,  the  water  seal  may  evaporate,  and 
allow  gases  to  escape  into  the  house. 

A  house  left  vacant  should  be  thoroly  aired  before  it  is  re-occupied. 

Keep  pipes  free  from  grease,  soapy  deposits,  etc.,  by  using  hot  water  and  soda  or  potash 
generously  and  frequently 

Every  trap  should  have  a  clean-out  under  the  water  seal. 

Draw  a  diagram  of  a  sink,  properly  connected  with  the  sewer. 

Sanitary  cleanliness  requires  the  cleanliness  of  the  individual,  of  his  possessions  and  his 
surroundings. 


[Lesson  8B]  USES  FOR  STALE  BREAD  [Page  23] 


HOT  IVTEAT  SANDWICHES. 

RECIPES  FOR  LEFT-OVERS  OF  MEAT. 

Hot  Chicken  Sandwich. 

%-inch  slices  toast. 

Cooked  chicken  (slices  or  small  pieces). 

WHITE  SAUCE  or  thickened  chicken  stock. 

Heat  the  slices  of  chicken  in  the  sauce. 

Season.    Celery  salt  and  chopped  parsley  may  be  added  if  liked. 

Put  the  meat  and  sauce  between  the  slices  of  toast. 

Garnish  with  parsley  and  olives. 

Hot  Roast  Beef  Sandwich. 

Slices  of  toast. 

Slices  of  cooked  roast  beef.    Brown  sauce. 

Put  the  meat  and  sauce  between  the  slices  of  toast. 

Left-overs  of  MUTTON  may  be  used  in  the  same  way,  with  tomato  sauce  or  mint  sauce. 

Club  House  Sandwich.  , 

1.  Toast. 

2.  Lettuce  leaves. 

3.  Salad  dressing. 

4.  Slices  of  roast  chicken. 

5.  Pan  broiled  bacon. 

Arrange  on  slices  of  toast  the  lettuce  leaves,  salad  dressing,  chicken  and  bacon  in 

layers. 
Repeat  and  cover  with  toast,  having  three  layers  of  toast  in  all. 
Garnish  with  pickles,  radishes,  or  parsley. 

Cheese  Canapes. 

Toast  circular  pieces  of  bread. 

Sprinkle  with  a  thick  layer  of  grated  cheese. 

Season  with  salt  and  cayenne. 

Place  on  a  baking  sheet  and  bake  in  oven  until  cheese  is  melted. 

Serve  at  once. 

Tomato  Sauce. 

2  c.  canned  toatatoes  Bit  of  bay  leaf  %  tsp.  salt 

1  slice  onion  4  cloves  2  tbsp  flour 

6  pepper  corns 

Boil  first  6  ingredients  15  minutes;  strain. 

Thicken  by  adding  the  flour  which  has  been  mixed  with  cold  water  to  make  a  smooth, 
thin  paste.     Cook  6  minutes. 


IPage  24]  BASIC  PRINCIPLES  OF  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  [Lesaon  9A] 

AIR 

COMPOSITION. — Pure   air   is   a   mixture,   composed   of   two   gases — oxygen    (one   part)    and 
Nitrogen   (four  parts) 

Air  in  Its  Relation  to  Life. 

THREE  THINGS  ARE  ESSENTIAL  TO  LIFE— Air,  Water  and  Food. 

AIR  is  the  most  important,  since  we  can  live  only  a  few  minutes  without  it. 

The  air  we  breathe  carries  oxygen  into  the  lungs,  keeping  the  blood  red  and  pure.  The 
blood  conveys  it  to  every  part  of  the  body,  where  it  unites  with  the  carbon,  producing  heat 
by  slow  burning.  It  also  produces  the  energy  which  makes  the  muscles  move  and  the  organs 
do  their  work. 

The  burnt  air  contains  carbon  dioxide  and  is  exhaled.  If  you  should  sit  in  a  very  small 
room  that  had  no  fresh  air  supply,  how  would  you  feel  after  the  fresh  air  had  become 
impure  ?     Why  ? 

The  air  becomes  impure  in  a  room  by  the  carbon  dioxide  given  off  from  the  lungs,  from 
lamps,  from  gas  stoves,  and  in  a  small  quantity  from  coal  stoves  (altho  m  this  case  most  of 
the  carbon  dioxide  passes  into  the  chimney). 

Anything  which  uses  up  the  oxygen  in  a  room,  or  which  allows  too  much  breathed  air 
to  remain  in  the  room,  makes  the  air  impure. 

Decaying  vegetables  and  water  that  have  been  allowed  to  st?vnd  for  a  length  of  time  in 
cellars  may  fill  the  room  with  impure  air  and  cause  disease. 

Habitual  breathing  of  impure  air  lowers  the  resistance  against  disease  and  makes  one 
more  susceptible  to  it. 

Public  buildings  are  usuallj'  ventilated  by  flues  which  let  in  the  fresh  out-of-door  air 
and  let  out  the  impure  air. 

What  is  meant  by  VENTILATION?     Why  is  GOOD  ventilation  necessary? 

REMEMBER:     To  frequently  Jill  your  lungs  with  fresh  out-of-door  air,  and  to  supply  your 
rooms  night  and  day  with  fresh  air. 

NOTES: 


./.■ 


[Lesson  9B] 


USES  FOR  STALE  BREAD 


[Page  25] 


GERMAN  TOAST. 
3  eggs  .  %  tsp.  salt  2  tbsp.  sugar.  1  c.  milk  8  slices  stale  bread 

Beat  eggs  slightly,  add  salt,  sugar  and  milk.  Strain  into  a  shallow  dish.  Soak  bread. in 
mixture  until  soft.  Cook  on  a  hot  well-greased  griddle;  brown  on  one  side;  turn  and  brown 
on  the  other  side.  Serve  for  breakfast  or  luncheon.  May  be  served  as  a  dessert  with  Lemon 
Sauce.  Slices  of  bread  may  be  put  in  layers  in  a  buttered  baking  dish,  covered  with  the  egg 
mixture  and  baked  in  a  moderate  oven.     This  we  call  Bread  Pudding. 

LEMON  SAUCE 

Va  c.  sugar  1^/^  c.  boiling  water 

1  tbsp.  corn  starch  1  tsp.  butter 

Mix  sugar  and  corn  starch;   add  boiling  water  gradually,  stirring  until  thickened. 
5  minutes.     Add  butter  and  lemon  juice.     Serve. 


11/4  tsp.  lemon  juice 


Boil 


PEACH  CANAPES 

3   peaches  1  tbsp.  corn  starch  diluted        6  slices  German  toast 

y2  c.  sugar  with  Y^  c.  cold  water  (circular  pieces) 

1  c.  water  Rind  of  1  lemon 

Peel  and  cut  the  peaches  in  halves ;  cook  them  until  tender  in  a  syrup  made  of  the 
sugar,  water  and  lemon  rind.  Remove  the  peaches  and  thicken  by  cooking  the  syrup  with 
the  cornstarch  mixed  with  the  cold  water.     Serve  the  peaches  on  the  toast,  with  the  syrup. 

BAKED  APPLES 

8  apples  %  tsp.  cinnamon  Rind  of  1  lemon 

%  c.   sugar  %  tsp.  nutmeg  (if  liked) 

Wash,  wipe  and  core  apples.  Place  them  in  a  baking  dish.  Mix  the  seasonings;  fill 
the  cavities.  Cover  the  bottom  of  the  dish  with  boiling  water  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  until 
soft,  basting  with  the  syrup  in  the  dish.     Pears  may  be  baked  in  the  same  way. 

BAKED  BANANAS 

6  bananas  2  tbsp.  butter  Vs  c.  sugar  2  tbsp.  lemon  juice 

Remove  the  skins  and  cut  in  halves  lengthwise.  Put  in  a  shallow  granite  pan  or  an  old 
platter.  Cream  the  butter  and  sugar  and  add  lemon  juice  gradually.  Spread  bananas  with 
half  the  mixture.  Bake  20  minutes  in  a  slow  oven,  basting  during  baking  with  the  reiofiining 
mixture. 


[Page  26] 


BASIC  PRINCIPLES  OF  DOMESTIC'  SCIENCE 


[Lesson  lOA] 


AIR — Continued 

AIR  IN  ITS  RELATION  TO  FIRE. 

Combustion  or  burning  is  the  uniting  of  two  or  more  elements  to  form  a  new  compound. 
Combustion  always  produces  heat,  and  if  rapid,  sometimes  light.     Flame  is  burning  gas. 

In  order  to  have  a  fire  three  things  are  necessary. 

1.  Fuel,  or  something  to  burn. 

2.  Heat,  to  make  it  hot  enough  to  burn  or  reach  its  kindling  point. 

3.  Air,  to  keep  it  burning.     The  oxygen  is  the  necessary  part  to  keep  the  fire  burning. 
Experiment  with  a  lighted  canale  and  a  lamp  chimney. 


Figure  1 


Figure  2 


Figure  3 


Fuel  is  any  matter  used  to  produce  heat  by  burning,  ex. — wood,  coal,  charcoal,  etc. 

Fuels  are  composed  mostly  of  carbons  and  hydrogen.  When  fuel  is  heated  enough  to 
burn,  the  oxygen  of  the  air  UNITES  with  the  CARBON  in  the  fuel  forming  a  gas  called 
CARBON  DIOXIDE;  it  also  unites  with  the  hydrogen  forming  watery  vapor;  these  pass 
through  the  chimney.     After  all  the  combustible  matter  is  burned  ashes  remain. 

Fires  are  usually  enclosed  in  iron  boxes  called  Stoves,  Ranges  and  Furnaces. 

These  must  have  two  openings,  one  to  let  in  the  air  and  one  to  let  out  the  burnt  air  (gas, 
watery  vapor  and  smoke).     The  slides  that  control  these  openings  are  called  dampers. 

All  stoves  have  a  third  damper  called  the  check  damper.     (See  Lesson  llA.) 

In  cooking  stoves  there  is  a  fourth  damper  which  allows  the  hot  gases  to  flow  around 
the  oven,  before  reaching  the  chimney. 


NOTES: 


[Lesson  lOB] 


SOUPS 

SOUPS 


[Page  27] 


TOMATO   SOUP 

1  slice  onion  2  tbsp.  butter 

1  tsp.   salt  2  tbsp.  flour 

Vs  tsp.  soda 

Strain.  Add  salt  and  soda.  Mix  the  flour  with 
an  equal  amount  of  water  until  smooth,  add  more  water  until  thin  enough  to  pour.  Stir 
soup  while  adding  gradually  the  flour  mixture,  called  thickening,  boil  5  minutes.  Strain,  add 
butter,  serve  with  croutons. 


1  can  tomatoes  Bit  of  bay  leaf 

1  pt.  water  4  cloves 

12  peppercorns  1  tsp.  sugar 

Cook  first  seven  ingredients  20  minutes. 


TOMATO  SOUP  WITH  CURLED  CELERY 


Croutons 
CROUTONS. — Cut  Vs  i^-  slices  of  buttered  stale  bread  into  cubes;  brown  in  oven. 

VEGETABLE  SOUP 

Ys  c.  carrot  1%  c.  potato  5  tbsp.  butter,  or  a      1  tsp.  salt 

Ya  c.  turnip  Y2  c.  onion  piece  of  suet  Vs  tsp.  pepper 

Y2  c.  celery  2  qts.  water  %  tbsp.  parsley 

Cut  vegetables  into  cubes.  Cook  the  vegetables,  except  the  potatoes  and  parsley,  10 
minutes,  in  the  butter  or  suet.  Add  water  and  potatoes  and  cook  one  hour.  Add  parsley 
and  seasonings.     A  soup  bone  may  be  added. 


PEA  SOUP 


IY2  tsp.  salt 


1  c.  dried  split  peas       Y2  onion  2  tbsp.  flour 

3  qts.  cold  water  4  in.  cube  fat  salt  porkVs  tsp.  pepper 

Pick  over  peas  and  soak  over  night;  drain,  add  cold  water,  pork  and  onion.  Simmer  3 
or  4  hours,  or  until  soft.  Rub  through  a  sieve.  Add  the  flour  mixed  with  cold  water  to 
the  soup;  boil  5  minutes,  stirring  constantly.     Add  seasonings. 


3  c.  cold  baked  beans 
3  pts.  water 
2  slices  lemon 


BAKED  BEAN  SOUP 

1%  c.  stewed  and  strained        2  tbsp.  flour 

tomatoes  1  tbsp.  Chili  sauce 

2  tbsp.   butter  Salt.     Pepper 

Put  first  four  ingredients  in  saucepan;  bring  to  boiling  point  and  simmer  30  minutes. 
Rub  through  a  sieve,  add  seasonings,  thicken  with  the  fiour,  add  butter,  and  serve  with  crisp 
crackers. 

Celery  stalks,  celery  salt,  or  the  dried  leaves  of  celery  may  be  added. 


[Page  28] 


BASIC  PRINCIPLES  OF  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE 


[Lesson  11  A] 


STOVES 

Ovens  are  as  individual  as  people,  and  stoves  form  habits  of  their  own. 
A  COOKING  STOVE  is  a  large  iron  box  set  on  legs. 


A  Cooking  Stove  has  the  following  parts: 

1.  FIRE-BOX,  to  contain  fuel. 

2.  GRATE,   which   forms  the   floor   of   the   fire-box. 

3.  DAMPERS,      (a)   Creative,   )  Xo  regulate  draft. 

(b)   Check.        J 

!j!   ^u?"'  [To  direct  current  of  hot  air. 

(d)   Chimney,  j 

4.  ASH-PAN,  to  receive  ashes,  cinders,  and  clinkers. 

5.  STOVE-PIPE,  to  carry   off  smoke    (unburned  carbon)    and  gaseous  products  of 

combustion. 

6.  OVEN,  FOR  FOOD. 

Distinction  between  a  stove  and  a  range: 

A  STOVE  is  movable,  and  usually  has  one  oven  and  two  doors. 

A  RANGE  may  be  either  built  into  the  wall  (set),  or  stand  out  in  the  room  (port- 
able). 
Locate  the  dampers  and  study  their  uses,  as  shown  in  the  following  illustrations. 


Indirect  ei* 
Check  Oampei 


Direct  or    ^ ' 
Creative  Damper 


V 


F 


Damper  Closed      i  j 


4 

Oamper  Open 


t    F 


Side  View 

Diagram  ofRanqe  with  Oven  Damper  Closld 
Pipe 


Elnd  View 


1 


Indirect  or* 
ChecK  Damper 


Direct  or   _^ 
Creative  Damper 


;  I       Oamper  Open  •  > 


f 


5ide  View 

OlAQRAtl  OF  RaNQE.   with  OvtN  DaMPUR  OPtN 


1 


End  Vitw 


tLesson  1113] 


CREAM  OF  VEGETABLE  SOUPS   (PtTREE) 


t!»age  281 


A  PUREE  is  made  by  adding  the  pulp  of  a  cooked  vegetable  to  milk  or  cream.  The  milk 
is  thickened  (white  sauce)  with  flour  or  cornstarch  in  order  to  bind  together  the  solid  and 
liquid  parts  of  the  soup. 

LEFT  OVERS  of  vegetables  or  vegetables  too  old  to  serve  whole  may  be  used  in  making 
the  cream  soup.  By  forcing  the  pulp  through  a  strainer  the  hull  and  coarse  fiber  is  removed. 
A  cream  soup  makes  a  very  nourishing  dish.     Why? 

CREAM  OF  POTATO   SOUP 

3  potatoes  (medium)  2  tbsp.  flour 

1  qt.  milk  1%  tsp.  salt 

2  slices  onion  %  tsp.  celery   salt 
2  tbsp.  butter                                i/s  tsp.  pepper 

Cook  potatoes  in  boiling  salted  water  until  soft;  rub  through  a  strainer  or  potato  ricer. 
Scald  milk  with  onion,  remove  onion  and  add  milk  slowly  to  potatoes.  Thicken  by  adding 
the  flour  which  has  been  mixed  with  cold  water  until  smooth.  Thin  it  out  with  a  little  more 
cold  water  and  add  to  soup,  stirring  until  thickened.  Boil  5  minutes.  Add  butter  and 
seasonings  and  serve  with  Imperial  Sticks. 


Few  grains  cayenne 
1  tsp.  chopped   parsley 


Imperial  Sticks 
Imperial  Sticks. — Cut  b.uttered  slices  of  bread  into  strips  and  brown  in  oven. 

CREAM  OF  TOMATO  SOUP 

3  c.   milk  %  can  tomatoes  3  tbsp.  butter 
1  slice  onion                                           1  tsp.  sugar  1  tsp.  salt 

4  tbsp.  flour  Vi  tsp.  soda  Ys  tsp.  pepper 

Scald  milk  with  onion,  and  thicken  milk  with  flour  diluted  with  cold  water,  stirring  con- 
stantly until  thickened.  Cook  tomatoes  with  sugar  15  minutes,  add  soda  and  rub  through 
sieve.    Combine  mixtures  and  strain.    Add  butter,  salt  and  pepper.     Serve  with 

Crackers  and  Cheese. — Arrange  zephyrettes  in  pan;  sprinkle  with  grated  cheese  and 
bake  until  cheese  is  melted. 

CREAM  OF  PEA  SOUP 


peas 


CREAM  OF  CORN  SOUP 

CREAM  OF  CELERY 

1  can  or  1  pt.  corn 

3  c.  celery 

1  pt.  cold  water 

1  pt.  boiling  water 

1  qt.  milk 

1  qt.  milk 

1  slice  onion 

1  slice  onion 

2  tbsp.  flour 

4  tbsp.  flour 

1  tsp.  salt 

%  tsp.  salt 

Vs  tsp.  pepper 

Few  grs.  pepper 

can  or  1  pt. 

tsp.  sugar 

pt.  cold  water 

qt.  milk 

slice  onion 

tbsp.  flour 

tsp.  salt 
tsp.  pepper 

Boil  vegetables  until  soft  in  the  water.  Force  vegetables  through  a  potato  ricer  or  a 
foarse  strainer.  Add  vegetable  pulp,  water  and  seasonings  to  the  milk  thickened  with  flour; 
2  to  4  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  mav  be  added. 

NOTE. — The  butter  in  the  Potato  Soup,  etc.,  recipes  may  be  omitted.  Tf  it  is  undesirable 
to  boil  the  milk,  cook  in  a  double  boiler  20  minutes  after  thickening  has  been  added. 


[Page  SO]  BASIC  PRINCIPLES  OF  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  [Lesson  12A] 

HOW  TO  BUILD  A  FIRE 

LAYING  THE  FIRE 

1.  Free  the  grate  from  ashes.     Turn  the  grate  back  into  place.    Remove  the  covers. 

2.  Cover  the  grate  with  twisted  pieces  of  paper. 

3.  On  these  lay  sticlcs  of  soft  wood  cross-wise. 

4.  Put  two  shovelfuls  of  coal  on  top  of  the  wood. 

5.  Cover  the  top  of  the  range,  open  all  the  dampers  except  the  oven  and  the  check 


damper. 


STARTING  THE  FIRE 


6.  Light  the  fire  by  applying  a  lighted  match  under  the  grate  to  the  paper  or  shavings. 
(If  the  stove  is  to  be  blackened,  do  it  now.) 

7.  When  the  wood  is  all  ablaze,  add  coal  until  the  fire-box  is  level  full.  The  fire-box 
should  never  be  kept  more  than  three-fourths  full. 

b.  When  the  blue  flame  disappears,  half  close  the  creative  damper.  When  the  coal  is 
burning  well,  close  the  creative  damper  almost  entirely,  and  half  close  the  chimney  damper, 

HOW  TO  MANAGE  A  FIRE 

For  a  steady  hot  fire,  rake  out  ashes  with  a  poker.  Fill  the  fire-box  three-fourths  full. 
Open  the  lower  front  creative  damper  and  cliimney  dampers.     Close  oven  and  check  dampers. 

When  the  lower  part  of  the  coal  is  red,  and  the  top  still  black,  close  the  dampers. 

Always  have  black  coals  on  top. 

To  heat  the  oven,  *open  the  oven  damper  and  half  close  the  chimney  damper. 

To  check  the  fire  slightly,  half  open  the  slide  in  the  check  damper. 

To  check  decidedly,  open  the  check  damper. 

To  keep  a  fire  over  night,  fill  the  fire-box  with  coal,  close  oven,  lower  front  and  chimney 
dampers,  and  open  the  check  damper  half  way. 

*The  oven  damper,  when  properly  turned,  forces  the  heated  air  around  the  oven,  before  it 
escapes   through  the  chimney. 

The  dampers  differ  slightly  in  different  ranges,  but  the  function  of  each  is  the  same. 

NOTES: 


[Lesson  12B) 


SCALLOPED  DISHES 


[Page     31] 


GENERAL  RULES 

The  crumbs  used  for  scalloped  dishes  may  be  made  from  the  inside  of  stale  bread, 
rubbed  or  grated,  or  from  dried  bread  which  has  been  rolled.  The  crumbs  must  be  seasoned 
and  added  to  the  melted  butter. 

Place  the  moistened  food  material  in  two  layers  and  the  crumbs  in  three  layers,  using 
one-third  of  the  buttered  crumbs  on  the  bottom  of  the  baking  dish,  then  half  the  food,  ther 
crumbs,  food,  and  the  remainder  of  the  crumbs  on  top. 

All  baking  dishes  must  be  buttered  or  greased. 

Melt  butter  in  the  mixing  bowl  over  hot  water, — add  crumbs  to  the  butter. 

Mix  butter  and  crumbs  with  a  fork. 

To  1  c.  soft  crumbs  use  1  tbsp.  butter,  i/g  tsp.  salt. 

To  1  c.  hard  crumbs  use  4  tbsp.  butter,  %  tsp.  salt. 

Few  grs.  pepper  in  dishes  when  pepper  is  used. 


3  c.  stewed  tomatoes 
6  cloves 
1  tsp.  salt 


SCALLOPED  TOMATOES 

%  tsp.  pepper 
%  tsp.  onion  juice 
1  tsp.  sugar 


2  c.  soft  crumbs 
1  c.  cracker    crumbs 
6  tbsp.    butter 


Cook  tomatoes  with  seasonings.     Follow  rules  for  scalloped  dishes. 


SCALLOPED  APPLES 

3  c.  apples  cut  in  eighths  %  c.  water 

%  c.  sugar  %  lemon,  juice  and  rind 

%  tsp.  cinnamon  2  c.  soft  bread  crumbs 

%  tsp.  nutmeg  2  tbsp.  butter 

Prepare  according  to  rule  and  bake  1%  hours  in  a  moderate  oven,  using  half  the  water 
on  each  layer  of  apples;  or,  cook  apples  with  the  sugar,  cinnamon,  nutmeg  and  1  cup  of 
water,  until  apples  are  soft.  Add  lemon  juice  and  rind.  Follow  rule  for  scalloped  dishes 
and  bake  until  crumbs  are  brown.     See  paragraph  II. 


SCALLOPED  EGGS 

4  hard  cooked  eggs  1^/^   c.  buttered  hard  crumbs 

%  c.  or  1  c.  cold  chopped  meat  1  pt.  white  sauce    (Lesson  7B) 

Chop  the  eggs,  and  follow  the  rule,  alternating  the*  eggs  and  meat,  or  add  chopped  eggs 
and  meat  to  the  sauce.     Follow  rules  for  escalloped  dishes.     See  paragraph  II. 


SCALLOPED   OYSTERS 


Vs  c.  melted  butter 
1  tsp.  salt 
Ys  tsp.  pepper 


1  pt.  oysters 

Vs  c.  oyster  liquor  or  milk 

1%  c.  cracker  crumbs  or  stale  bread  crumbs 
Follow  rules  for  scalloped  dishes,  using  half  of  the  liquor  on  each  layer  of  oysters.    Bake 
30   minutes   in   a   hot   oven.      Never   allow   more   than   two   layers   of   oysters   for   scalloped 
oysters.     If  three  layers  are  used,  the  middle  layer  will  be  underdone,  while  the  other  two 
are  properly  cooked. 


tT*age  m 


BASIC  PUmClPLKS  OF  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE 


tLesson  13  A] 


AIR  IN  ITS  RELATION  TO  COOKERY 

In  Lesson  3B  we  learned  that  by  BEATING  a  mixture,  a  large  amount  of  air  is  enclosed, 
and  by  CUTTING  and  FOLDING,  the  air  already  introduced  is  prevented  from  escaping. 

Air  at  70  degrees  F.,  in  a  hot  oven,  expands  to  about  double  its  volume. 

When  a  mixture  is  beaten  thoroughly  it  is  filled  w^ith  air  bubbles,  and  when  this  is 
cooked  or  baked  in  a  hot  oven,  each  air  bubble  becomes  enlarged  by  the  heat;  the  heat  also 
dries  the  mixture  and  forms  a  wall  around  each  expanded  air  bubble,  firmly  fixing  it  in  place. 

In  egg  mixtures,  like  omelets,  the  heat  coagulates  the  albumen  in  the  egg  at  a  low 
temperature;  this  firmly  fixes  the  bubbles  in  place,  leaving  a  light  and  porous  mixture. 

All  egg  mixtures  should  be  cooked  at  a  moderate  temperature.  Example:  Sponge  Cake, 
Angel's  Food,  etc, 

A  batter  containing  a  large  amount  of  water  and  baked  in  a  hot  oven,  puffs  up  by  the 
steam  produced.  The  steam  is  formed  when  the  liquid  within  the  mixture  is  sufficiently 
heated.  Water  in  changing  to  steam  is  expanded  more  than  1,700  times,  and  consequently 
puffs  up  the  mixture.     Example:    Cream  Puffs,  Pop-overs,  etc. 

Review  lessons  up  to  date. 


I 

Breaking  an  Egg 


II 

Slipping  white  into  a  plate 
and  yolk  into  a  bowl 


III 

Beating  white,  enclosing  air 


NOTES: 


[Lesson  13B] 


OMELETS 

PART  I 


[Page  33] 


PLAIN  OMELET 


4  eggs 

Yi  tsp.  salt 


4  tbsp.  hot  water 


Few  grains  pepper 
1  tbsp.  butter 

Separate  eggs.  Beat  yolks  until  thick;  add  salt,  pepper  and  hot  water.  Beat  whites 
until  stiff  and  dry,  and  fold  them  into  the  first  mixture.  Heat  omelet  pan  and  butter  sides 
and  bottom.  Turn  in  mixture.  Cook  slowly.  When  well  puffed  and  delicately  browned 
underneath,  place  on  grate  of  oven  to  finish  cooking  on  top. .  The  omelet  is  cooked  if  it  is  firm 
to  the  touch  when  pressed  with  the  finger.  If  it  clings,  it  is  not  cooked.  Fold  and  turn  on  a 
hot  platter.     Serve  with  1%  cups  thin  white  sauce  (Lesson  7B). 

OMELET  WITH  MEAT  AND  VEGETABLES 

Fold  in  oysters,  cut  in  halves,  to  plain  omelet  mixture.  Follow  directions  given  in  Plain 
Omelet  recipe. 

OYSTER  OMELET 

Cook  plain  omelet.  Add  cooked  vegetables  or  meat  to  the  white  sauce  or  fold  them  into 
the  omelet  mixture. 


PART  II 


POP  OVERS 


Yz  tsp.  melted  butter 


1  c.  flour  %  c.  milk 

Yi  tsp.  salt  2  eggs 

Mix  salt  and  flour;  add  one-half  the  milk,  beat  until  smooth.  Add  remaining  half  of 
milk,  well-beaten  eggs  and  butter.  Beat  2  minutes  with  Dover  egg  beater.  Turn  into  hot 
buttered  iron  gem  pans,  and  bake  about  35  minutes  in  a  hot  oven.  Halves  of  canned  peaches 
may  be  dropped  into  mixture  in  pan  just  before  baking.     The  mixture  will  cover  the  peach. 

Serve  with  peach  sauce. 

Creamed  meat  or  vegetables  may  be  served  in  Pop-over  cases. 


[Page  34] 


PART  ni.     CREAM  PUFFS 


[Lesson  14A] 


/■""^^i^. 


CREAM  PUFFS 

%  c.  butter  1  c.  boiling  water  1  c.  flour  4  eggs 

Put  butter  and  water  in  saucepan  and  place  over  the  fire.  As  soon  as  it  begins  to 
boil  add  flour,  all  at  once,  and  stir  briskly,  until  the  mixture  leaves  the  side  of  the  pan. 
Remove  from  the  flre,  cool,  add  one  Unbeaten  egg,  add  another,  beat;  and  so  on,  until  the 
four  have  been  added.  Drop  by  spoonfuls  onto  a  buttered  pan  about  two  inches  apart.  Bake 
in  a  moderate  oven  from  25  to  45  minutes,  or  imtil  puffs  are  flrm  and  crusty  to  the  touch. 
Cool.  With  a  sharp  knife  make  a  cut  and  flll  with  Cream  Filling  or  Whipped  Cream.  Cream 
puff  mixture  may  be  fried  in  deep  fat.  Creamed  vegetables  and  meat  or  fish  may  be  served 
in  cream  puff  cases. 

CREAM  FILLING 

%  e.  sugar  1  tsp.  salt  2  c.  scalded  milk 

Va  c.  flour  2  eggs  1  tsp.  vanilla 

Mix  dry  ingredients;  add  eggs  slightly  beaten,  and  pour  in  gradually  the  scalded  milk. 
Cook  15  minutes  in  double  boiler,  stirring  constantly  until  thickened.     Cool  and  flavor. 

WHIPPED    CREAM 

1   pt.  heavy  cream  Va   c.   sugar  1    tsp.  vanilla 

Beat  the  cream  with  r,  Dover  egg-beater  until  thick;  add  sugar  and  vanilla.  Beat  until 
thoroly  mixed.  Cream  should  be  cold  and  the  bowl  containing  it  placed  in  a  pan  of  ice 
water  while  beating.     If  beaten  too  long  it  will  separate. 


CHOCOLATE  ECLAIRE 

.Shape  cream  puff  mixture   4%   in.   long  by   1   in.  wide 


moderate  oven.     Split  and  fill  with  cream  filling. 


Bake  about  25  minutes  in  a 
Frost  with  chocolate  frosting. 


CHOCOLATE  FROSTING    - 

Mix  4  tbsp.  boiling  water  or  scalded  cream  with  1  square  melted  chocolate,  add  enough 
confectioner's  sugar  gradually  to  make  it  of  right  consistency  to  spread.  One  yolk  of  egg  may 
be  added  and  %  tsp.  vanilla. 


tlesaon  14B]  NOURISHING  DESSERTS  [Page  35] 

APPLE  SNOW 
%  c.  apple  pulp  Whites  3  eggs  Powdered  sugar 

Pare,  quarter  and  core  4  sour  apples.  Steam  until  soft  and  rub  through  sieve.  There 
should  be  %  c.  apple  pulp.  Beat  the  whites  of  eggs  until  stiff;  add  gradually  apples  sweet- 
ened to  taste.  Pile  lightly  on  a  dish  and  serve  with  custard  sauce.  One  tbsp.  lemon  juice 
may  be  added. 

PRUNE  WHIP  may  be  made  by  substituting  %  c.  pulp  of  steamed  prunes. 

CUSTARD  SAUCE 

iy2  c.  scalded  milk  ^  c.  sugar  %  tsp.  vanilla 

Yolk  3  eggs  Vs  tsp.  salt 

Beat  the  yolks  slightly,  add  sugar  and  salt;  stir  constantly  while  adding  gradually  the 
hot  milk  to  the  yolk  mixture.  Return  to  the  double  boiler.  Cook  in  the  double  boiler, 
stirring  constantly  until  the  mixture  thickens,  and  a  coating  is  formed  on  the  spoon.  Chill 
and  flavor.  If  cooked  too  long,  custard  will  curdle.  Should  this  happen,  beating  the  mixture 
with  a  Dover  egg  beater  will  restore  the  smooth  consistency.  When  eggs  are  scarce,  use 
two  yolks  and  Yo   tbsp.  cornstarch. 

TAPIOCA  CREAM  PUDDING 

iy2  tbsp.  minute  tapioca,  or  ^4  c.  pearl  tapioca  Vs  c.  sugar 

2  c.  scalded  milk  Vi  tsp.  salt 

2  eggs  1  tsp.  vanilla 

Pick  over  tapioca  and  soak  one  hour  in  cold  water  to  cover.  Drain,  add  to  milk  and 
cook  in  a  double  boiler  until  tapioca  is  transparent.  Mix  the  yolks  with  the  sugar  and  salt. 
Combine  by  pouring  hot  mixture  slowly  into  egg  mixture.  Return  to  double  boiler  and  cook 
until  it  thickens  while  stirring  consta:ntly.  Add  vanilla  and  fold  in  whites  of  eggs  beaten 
until  stiff;  remove  from  range,  chill  and  serve. 


Sago  Pudding,  with  Whipped  Cream  and  Candied  Cherries 

SAGO  PUDDING 

V2  c.  sago  1/3  c.  sugar 

2  c.  scalded  milk  Yi  tsp  salt 

2  eggs  1  tsp.  vanilla  or  grated  rind  one  lemon 

Pick  over  sago  and  wash,  drain,  add  to  milk,  and  cook  in  a  double  boiler  until  sago 
is  transparent.  Mix  the  yolks  with  sugar  and  salt.  Combine  mixtures  by  pouring  hot  mix- 
ture slowly  into  egg  mixture  and  cook  in  a  double  boiler  until  thickened.  Fold  in  the  stiffly 
beaten  whites;  remove  from  range.    Flavor  and  mold.    Serve  cold  with 

GRAPE  SAUCE 

%  c.  sweetened  grape  juice        %  c.  water  1  tbsp.  lemon  juice 

IY2  tbsp.  cornstarch 

Heat  the  grape  juice  and  water;  add  the  cornstarch  diluted  with  ^  c.  cold  water.  Boil  5 
minutes,  stirring  until  thickened;  add  the  lemon  juice.  If  not  sweet  enough,  add  sugar  to 
taste. 

One  pound  grapes  usually  makes  1  pt.  juice;  1  c.  sugar  is  usually  added  to  1  pt,  of  grape 
juice, 

/ 


LPage  36]  BASIC  PRINCIPLES  OP  DOMESTIC  SaENCE  [Lesson  15A] 

FOOD 

Lifeless  food  makes  life  tissue. 

FOOD  is  anything  that  nourishes  the  body. 

Food  is  necessary  for  repair,  growth  and  energy.  The  food  is  to  the  body  what  wood^ 
coal  or  other  fuel  is  to  the  locomotive  engine.    Let  us  make  use  of  this  familiar  comparison: 

The  Locomotive  Engine  The  Human  Body  r 

1.  Material  structure  1.     Material  structure 

2.  Fuel — coal,  wood,  etc.  2.     Food. 

3.  Air  3.     Air 

4.  Water  4.     Water 

5.  Waste  products  5.     Waste  products 

Neither  the  body  nor  the  engine  can  do  its  work  without  food  or  fuel  and  plenty  of 
fresh  air. 

The  fuel  in  the  fire-box  of  the  engine  is  burnt  by  the  aid  of  the  oxygen  in  the  air 
uniting  with  the  carbon  in  the  fuel.  The  heat  produced  changes  the  water  into  steam,  and 
the  expansion  of  this  steam  produces  motion. 

The  human  body  moves  from'  place  to  place  and  is  kept  warm  because  a  slow  fire  is 
burning  within  us.  The  food  taken  into  the  body  is  burnt  or  oxidized  in  nearly  every  part 
of  the  body.  Without  fresh  air  and  food  every  day  the  slow  fire  would  go  out  and  we  would 
gradually  waste  away  and  die. 

Every  part  of  the  steam  engine  is  always  wearing  out,  but  it  cannot  repair  itself. 

The  body,  too,  is  always  wearing  out,  but  it  can  repair  itself.  Every  beat  of  the  heart, 
every  movement  of  a  muscle,  etc.,  all  lead  to  waste.  What  we  eat  and  drink  takes  the 
place  of  what  is  used  up. 

The  young  and  growing  must  take  in  a  little  more  than  what  is  used  up.  The  food  we 
eat  is  turned  into  flesh,  bone,  hair,  etc.,  besides  furnishing  heat  and  energy. 

The  food  must  be  digested,  absorbed  and  assimilated.  The  blood  carries  the  absorbed 
food  to  every  part  of  the  body. 

The  engine  gets  rid  of  its  waste  in  the  form  of  ashes,  cinders,  and  gases. 

The  body  gets  rid  of  its  waste  products  by  diff'erent  channels,  breath,  perspiration,  etc. 

The  engin'e  will  not  do  its  work  unless  all  parts  are  kept  in  working  order. 

Each  and  every  part  of  the  human  body,  in  order  to  do  its  work  properly,  must  be  kept 
in  a  good  condition,  used  in  the  proper  way,  and  kept  clean  inside  and  outside. 

NOTES: 


[Lesson  156] 


FRUIT    TAPIOCA   PUDDINGS 


[Page  37] 


FRUIT  TAPIOCA  AKD  SAGO  PUDDINGS 


APPLE 


PEACH 

%  c.  tapioca  or  sago 
Cold   water    to    cover 
%  c.  boiling  water 
2  c.  canned  peaches  and 

syrup 
Yi  tsp.  salt 
%  c.  sugar 
1  tbsp.  lemon  juice 
Rind  ^  lemon 


STRAWBERRY 

%  c.  tapioca  or  sago 

Cold  water  to  cover 

I'/s  c.  boiling  water 

1%  c.     strawberry  pulp  or 

1%  c.  canned  strawberries 

Sweeten  to  taste 

Ys  tsp.  salt 

Rind  ^4  lemon 


%   c.  tapioca 
Cold  water  to  cover 
2  Ml  c.  boiling  water 
7  sour  apples  cut  in 

eighths  (cooked) 
Vi  tsp.  salt 
%  c.  sugar 
1  tbsp.  lemon  juice 
Rind  ^  lemon 
Few  grs.  nutmeg  and 

cinnamon 

DIRECTIONS. — Wash  and  soak  the  tapioca  and  sago  one  hour  or  more  in  enough  cold 
water  or  fruit  juice  to  cover;  add  the  boiling  water,  cooked  fruit,  fruit  juices,  salt,  sugar  and 
lemon  rind.  Cook  in  a  double  boiler  until  tapioca  or  sago  is  transparent.  Mold,  chill  and  serve 
with  cream  and  sugar.     Minute  tapioca  may  be  used,  and  this  requires  no  soaking. 

The  cooked  fruit,  when  large  fruit  is  used,  may  be  used  to  line  the  mould,  and  only  the 
fruit  juices  added  to  the  tapioca  mixture. 

The  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  two  or  three  eggs  may  be  folded  in  just  before  pouring  the 
mixture  into  the  mould.  The  yolks  may  be  used  in  making  a  custard  sauce,  and  served  with 
the  pudding.     Adding  the  eggs  makes  the  pudding  more  nutritious. 


NORWEGIAN  PRUNE  PUDDING 


1  tsp.  lemon  juice 

Rind  %  lemon 

1  inch  piece  stick  cinnamon 


1%  c.  boiling  water 
Vs  c.  cornstarch 


%   lb.  prunes 
2  c.  cold  water 
1  c.  sugar 

Pick  over  and  wash  prunes,  then  soak  one  hour  or  more  in  cold  water  to  cover.  Boil 
until  soft  in  the  water  in  which  they  have  been  soaked.  Remove  the  stones;  add  sugar, 
lemon  juice,  rind,  cinnamon,  boiling  water,  and  simmer  fifteen  minutes.  Mix  cornstarch 
with  enough  cold  water  to  pour  easily,  add  to  cooked  prune  mixture  and  cook  5  minutes. 
Remove  cinnamon,  mold  and  chill.  Serve  with  plain  or  whipped  cream.  Chopped  almonda 
may  be  added  to  the  mixture  just  before  being  poured  into  the  mould. 


[Page  38]  BASIC  PRINCIPLES  OF  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  [Lesson  16A] 

FOOD— Continued 

The  whole  world  is  made  up  of  elements  and  their  compounds. 

Of  the  seventy  different  elements,  only  about  thirteen  enter  into  the  composition  of  the 
body.  The  four  most  imjjortant  are:  Oxygen,  hydrogen,  carbon  and  nitrogen.  These  a:e 
formed  into  chemical  compounds  by  the  vegetable  and  animal  kingdoms,  and  support  tho 
human  being. 

The  substances  comprising  the  body  must  be  obtained  from  the  food,  air  and  water 
(H2  0).  That  it  may  be  easier  to  understand  the  subject  of  foods  and  their  digestion, 
food  is  classified  as  follows: 

(  Proteins 

Organic  ■<  Carbohydrates 
'  (  Fats  and  Oils 

,  .    (  ]Nrineral   ]\Tatter 

Inorganic  -^  tt-   , 
=>  I  Water 

Proteins  always  contain  nitrogen  and  are  called  nitrogenous  foods 

They  also  contain  carbon,  hydrogen,  oxygen,  and  one  or  more  elements,  and  are  called 
tissue-builders,  because  their  chief  office  is  to  build  and  repair  tissues. 

Example:     Fish,  meat,  eggs,  milk,  cheese,  peas,  beans  and  cereals. 

Carbohydrates  include  all  the  sugars  and  starches. 

They  contain  carbon,  hydrogen  and  oxygen.  The  chief  office  of  the  carbohydrates  is 
to  furnish  energy  and  maintain  heat. 

Example:  Cereals,  rice,  sago,  tapioca;  vegetables,  (potatoes);  sugar  cane,  sugar  of 
fruits,  etc.,  cellulose  and  gums. 

Fats  and  Oils  are  composed  of  carbon  and  hydrogen,  with  a  little  less  oxygen  than  the 
carbohydrates.  The  chief  office  of  the  fats  and  oils  is  to  store  up  heat  and  energy  to  be 
used  as  needed,  and  they  form  the  fatty  tissues  of  the  body.  They  yield  about  twice  as 
much  heat,  pound  for  pound,  as  the  carbohydrates.  They  are  obtained  from  both  the  animal 
and  the  vegetable  kingdoms. 

Example:  Butter,  cream,  and  the  fat  of  meats,  fish,  cereals,  nuts,  and  the  berry  of  the 
olive  tree  from  which  olive  oil  is  extracted. 

Mineral  Matter. — The  chief  office  of  mineral  matter  is  to  build  up  bone  and  other  tissue, 
to  aid  digestion,  and  to  purify  the  blood. 

Example:      Sodium,  iron,  lime,  potash,  sulphur,  salt. 

Water. — See  Lesson  4A. 

NOTES: 


[Lesson  16B] 


SIMPLE  SALADS 


[Page  39] 


1  tsp.  salt 

1  tsp,  mustard 

2  tsp.  sugar 

Mix  the  salt, 
with  1  tbsp.  cold 
the  scalded  milk; 
the  yolk  mixture, 
mixture  thickens. 


COOKED  SALAD  DRESSING 

Few  grs.  cayenne  %  c.  scalded  milk 

1  tbsp.  flour  1/4  c.  hot  A'inegar 

Yolks  2  eggs  or  1  egg  1  tbsp.  butter 

mustard,  sugar  and  cayenne;  add  the  yolks  nnd  mix  thoroly.  Stir  flour 
water  until  smooth.  Add  a  little  of  the  scalded  milk,  stir,  pour  it  into 
cook  in  a  double  boiler,  continue  stirring  until  thickened.  Pour  it  into 
return  to  double  boiler,  add  the  hot  vinegar,  stirring  constantly  until  the 
Add  the  butter.    Cool  before  using.    If  cooked  too  long  it  will  curdle. 


SHREDDED  CABBAGE  OR  COLD  SLAW 

Remove  wilted  leaves,  and  cut  a  quarter  from  a  small  head  of  cabbage  and  let  stand  in 
cold  water  imtil  crisp.  Cut  out  stalk,  and  cut  into  very  fine  pieces.  Serve  with  cooked 
salad  dressing. 

CABBAGE  SALAD 

Scoop  out  the  inside  of  a  small  head  of  cabbage.  Cut  into  small  pieces.  Add  finely 
cut  celery.  Soak  until  crisp  in  cold  water.  Drain.  Moisten  with  salad  dressing.  May  be 
served  in  the  cabbage  head. 


POTATO  SALAD 

2  c.  cubed  bftiled  potatoes  1  c.  finely  cut  celery 

1  apple  cut  In  14-inch  cubes  Salad  dressing 

Add  salad  dressing  to  moisten.     Garnish  with  celery  tips,  curled  celery  or  hard-cooked 


eggs. 


SALMON  SALAD 

Flake  remnants  of  cold  boiled  salmon,  or  canned  salmon.  Add  celery  moistened  with 
salad  dressing.  Arrange  on  nests  of  lettuce  leaves.  Garnish  with  the  yolk  of  a  hard  cooked 
egg  forced  thru  a  potato  ricer  or  strainer,  and  the  white  of  egg  cut  into  strips.  Thiu  slices 
qf  lemon  dipped  in  finely  cut  parsley  may  be  used  as  a  garnish. 


[Page  40]  BASIC  PRINCIPLES  OF  DOMESTIC   SCIENCE  [Lesson  17A] 

LAYING  THE  TABLE 

The  room  should  be  in  perfect  order,  the  air  fresh,  and  the  temperature  comfortable. 

GENERAL  DIRECTIONS 

Cover  the  table  with  an  undercloth  of  felting  or  Canton  flannel,  or  a  clean  cotton  blanket 
may  be  used.  Over  this  spread  a  spotless  table  cloth  evenly,  the  middle  fold  upward  dividing 
the  table  exactly  in  half. 

POSITION  OF  HOST  AND  HOSTESS 

Position  of  the  host,  at  the  head  of  the  table,  near  entrance  door.  Hostess  at  the  foot 
of  the  table  opposite. 

PLACING  TRAY  CLOTH,  CARVING  CLOTH,  CENTERPIECE,  ETC. 
Tray  cloth  in   front  of  hostess;    carving  cloth   in  front  of  host,  on  which  arrange  the 
knife  rest.     Carafe  cloths  near  corners  of  table. 

PLACING  PLATES 

Place  a  plate  for  each  person,  one  inch  from  edge  of  table.  If  bread  and  butter  plates 
are  used,  jjlace  one  plate  a  little  to  the  left,  with  butter  spreader  on  edge  of  plate,  a  little 
to  the  right  of  plate.     If  individual  butter  plates  are  used,  place  over  tip  of  fork.     ' 

PLACING  KNIVES,  FORKS  AND  SPOONS 

Place  tlie  knife  or  knives  at  the  right  of  each  i^late,  the  sharp  edge  toward  the  plate; 
the  fork  or  forks  at  the  left,  tines  up,  one  inch  from  the  edge,  being  careful  to  have  the 
spacing  the  same  at  every  place.  Spoons  at  right  of  knife,  bowls  up,  handles  an  inch  from 
the  edge  of  the  table,  or  over  the  plate,  handles  to  the  right.  Place  silver  in  the  order  in 
which  it  is  to  be  used  counting  from  the  outside  toward  the  plate. 

PLACING  THE  GLASSES 
Place  the  water  glass  top  up  at  right  of  plate,  at  end  of  knife  blade. 

PLACING  NAPKINS,  PEPPER,  SALT 
Place  napkins  at  left  of  plate.     Pepper  and  salt  near  corners,  or  one  of  each  between 
the  places  for  two  people. 

CHAIRS 
Arrange  chairs  so  they  need  not  be  drawn  out  when  people  are  seated. 

SIDEBOARD  AND  SIDE-TABLE 

Object:  To  hold  all  extras  that  mny  be  needed  during  a  meal.  Sideboard  may  or  may 
not  be  covered.     Side  table  should  always  be  covered. 

EXTRAS  ON  SIDEBOARD 

Plates,  tumblers,  forks,  knives,  spoons,  cups,  saucers,  sugar  bowl  and  creamer,  water 
pitcher,  milk  pitcher,  crushed  ice,  finger  bowls,  oil  and  condiments. 

SIDE-TABLE 
Serving  plates,  silver,  carving  knives  and  forks,  trays    (small),  table  scraper  and  tray. 
Space  for  soup  tureen  cover,  vegetable  dishes,  gravy  boats,  etc. 

Have  at  hand  a  soft  napkin  and  heavy  cloth  in  case  of  accident, 

NOTES: 


[Lesson  17B]  BREAKFAST  TABLE  [Page  41] 

BREAKFAST 

ARRANGE  COFFEE  SERVICE  ON  TRAY  CLOTH 

Before  Serving — Fill  finger  bowls  Vs  full  cf  tepid  water,  and  place  on  a  fruit  plate 
covered  with  a  doily.     Knife  at  right  and  spoon  at  left. 

Place  fruit  in  center  of  table. 

Cut  bread  and  place  on  table;  also  butter  balls.  Fill  carafes,  water  pitcher,  milk 
pitcher  and  creamer.     Put  crushed  ice  in  tumblers,  fill  %  full  of  water. 

GENERAL   DIRECTIONS   FOR   SERVING 

Meal  is  served  from  the  table  by  host  and  hostess,  or  from  side  table  by  the  waitress. 

Warm  plates  for  hot  food; 

Cold  plates  for  cold  food. 

Dishes  are  held  in  the  palm  of  the  left  hand  on  a  folded  napkin,  or  placed  on  a  tray 
covered  with  a  doily. 

Everything  is  placed  at  the  right  and  passed  at  the  left. 

In  passing,  hold  left  hand  or  tray  low  enough  that  each  person  may  serve  himself  easily. 

Serving  silver  should  be  placed  in  dish  of  food  before  passing. 

If  possible,  serve  hostess  first  and  host  last;  serving  those  at  right  of  hostess,  then  those 
at  left.  Serve  one  course  around  the  table  to  the  right,  the  second  to  the  left,  that  all  may 
be  sure  of  equal  attention. 

Keep  glasses  properly  filled.  To  fill  glasses,  draw  to  edge  of  table  (do  not  remove  from 
table)  then  replace. 

IN  CLEARING  THE  TABLE  BETWEEN  COURSES. 

First,  remove  food,  platters,  serving  dishes. 

Second,  soiled  china,  silver,  glass,  cutlery.  Do  not  remove  silver  and  cutlery  from  dishes 
in  which  they  have  been  used. 

Third,  clean  china,  glass  and  cutlery. 

Remove  everything  relating  to  one  course  before  serving  another. 

Plates  should  be  removed  with  the  right  hand  at  left  of  person,  one  at  a  time.  If  two 
are  removed  at  once,  take  one  in  each  hand;  never  pile. 


[Page  43]  BASIC  PRINCIPLES  OF  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  [Lesson  ISA';, 

DINNER 

A  SIMPLE  DINNER  may  consist  oi  two  courses,  meat  or  fish  with  vegetables,  and  u 

dessert. 

A  Dinner  may  consist  of  three  courses,  soup  meat  or  fish  with  vegetables,  and  a  dessert. 

A  Dinner  may  have  more  courses,  as  soup  with  rolls  or  bread,  croutons  or  baked  crack- 
ers, fish,  meat  with  vegetables,  salad,  dessert,  coffee. 

ARRANGE  THE  Ci  OTHS,  KNIVES  AND  FORKS  AS  FOR  THE  BREAKFAST 

Place  at  the  right  of  each  knife  a  soup  spoon  and  a  teaspoon,  or  more  if  needed. 

A  carving  knife  and  fork  should  be  placed  at  the  right  of  the  host,  who  usually  serves 
the  meat,  and  the  tablespoons  beside  the  dish  to  be  served. 

Bread  sticks  or  dinner  bread  is  placed  in  the  folds  of  the  napkin. 

If  the  serving  is  done  by  the  host  or  hostess,  the  hostess  should  serve  the  soup,  vegeta- 
bles, salad,  dessert,  and  tea  or  coffee;  the  host,  meat  or  fish. 

With  a  waitress,  the  hostess  serves  the  soup,  salad,  dessert  and  coffee;  the  host,  meat  or 
fish,  while  the  waitress  passes  the  plates  as  food  is  se/'ved.  and  also  serves  the  vegetables  and 
entrees. 

Place  a  ladle  with  the  handle  at  the  right,  beside  the  tureen,  before  the  hostess,  and  hot 
soup  plates  directly  in  front,  almost  touching  tureen  to  preven--  dripping  on  cloth. 

In  serving,  soup  should  be  dipped  away  from,  not  toward,  the  ^i^rson.  The  same  rule 
holds  good  in  eating  it. 

After  the  cover  has  been  removed  from  the  tureen,  tiie  Wi-iiir^sp  -.mutM.  ^itand  at  the  left 
of  the  one  who  is  serving,  hold  the  tray  in  the  left  hand,  and  ^''■itp  ^lie  riguu  place  the  filled 
plate  on  the  tray.  Take  it  to  the  right  of  each  person  and,  with  the  right  hand,  set  it  in 
front,close  to  the  edge  of  the  table. 

After  the  first  course,  remove  the  soup  tureen  and  the  plates,  one  at  a  time,  on  a  tray,  or 
by  taking  one  in  each  hand.     Never  pile  one  on  the  other. 

Arrange  the  meat  and  the  plates  for  the  second  course. 

If  anything  is  served  with  the  course,  the  dish  containing  it  should  be  placed  on  the 
tray,  or  held  in  the  palm  of  the  left  hand  on  a  folded  napkin,  with  the  handle  at  the  serving 
spoon  or  fork  toward  the  person.     Pass  it  to  the  left  side  of  each. 

In  removing  a  course,  take  large  dishes  or  platters  first;  then  the  plates  and  Knives 
and  forks. 

The  carving  knife  and  fork  should  be  placed  side  by  side  on  the  platter. 

Before  the  dessert  is  placed  on  the  table,  remove  all  dishes  except  the  dessert  spoons 
and  glasses.    Remove  crumbs  with  a  crumb  knife  or  napkin. 

Place  the  dessert  in  front  of  the  hostess,  serving  spoon  or  fork  at  her  right,  plates  and 
saucers  in  front  or  at  the  left. 

NOTES: 


[Lesson  18B] 


PRACTICE   TEST   LESSON 


[Page  43] 


Luncheon  Prepared  From  Left-Overs 

MENU  I 

Cream  of  Corn  Soup 

Pop  Corn  Bread  Sticks 

Scalloped  Veal  and  Tomatoes 
Tomato  Sauce  Bread  and  Butter 

Fruit  Tapioca,  Cream  and  Sugar 


MENU  II 

Tomato  Soup 

Celery  Crackers 

'  Scalloped  Flaked  Cod 

or 

Hot  Meat  Sandwiches 

Potatoes  with  Parsley  Sauce  Bread  and  Butter 

Sago  Pudding  with  Grape  Sauce 


Prepare  above,  using  large  recipes. 

Cost  of  preparing  above  menus  to  serve  six: 

lyfater^al  Quantity 


Cost 


[Page  44] 


BASIC  PRINCIPLES  OF  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE 


INDIVIDUAL  RECIPES  FOR  FIRST  SEMESTER. 


LESSON  6B 

Com  Oysters 

2  tbsp.  sweet   corn 
2  tsp.  beaten  egg 
2  tsp.  flour 
Few  grs.  salt 
Few  grs.  pepper 

Baked  Corn 

2  tbsp.  corn 
^  egg 

2  tsp.  flour 

%  tsp.  green  pepper 

%  tsp.  salt 

^  beaten  white 

Stuffed  Tomatoes 

1  tomato 

3  tbsp.  cracker  crumbs 

4  tbsp.  finely  chopped 

cooked  meat 
Yz  tsp.  butter 
Vie  *SP'  salt 
Few  grs.  pepper 

LESSON  7B 
Milk  Toast 

1  slice  bread 
Sauce 

14  c.  milk 

1  tsp.  flour 

1  tsp.  cold  water 

1  hard  cooked  egg 

Few  grains  salt 

Demonstrate 

Eggs  a  la  Golden  Rod 

and 

Croustades 

LESSON  8B 

Hot  Chicken  Sandwich  Recipe 

May  use  small  piece  of  veal 

1  slice  of  bread  cut  in  fourths,  making 

two  small  sandwiches 
Yi  c.  sauce  made  with  stock 

Demonstrate 
The  Club  House  Sandwich 

LESSON  9B 

German  Toast. 

2  tsp.  egg 
Few  grs.  salt 
Y2  tsp.  sugar 
IY2  tbsp.  milk 
1  t|Itc«  br^ad 


LESSON  9B 

Baked  Apple. 
1  apple 

1  tbsp.  sugar 

Few  grs.  cinnamon 
Few  grs.  nutmeg 
Rind  Ys  lemon 

Demonstrate 
Baked  Bananas 

LESSON  lOB 

Tomato  Soup 
Y2  c.  water 
Y2  c.  tomatoes 

2  peppercorns 
Bit  of  bay  leaf 
1  clove 

%  tsp.  sugar 
j4i  slice  onion 
ye   tsp.  salt 
It'ff  tsp.  soda 
1  tsp.  flour 
1  tsp.  water 
1  tsp.  butter 

Vegetable  Soup 
1  slice  carrot 
1  slice  turnip 
1  tsp.  celery 

3  slices  potato 
1  slice  onion 
Small  piece  of  suet 
IY2  c.  water 

Y2  tsp.  parsley 
Few  grs.  pepper 
Y2  tsp.  salt 

LESSON  IIB 

Cream  of  Potato  Soup 

Y2  potato 

%  c.  milk 

%  slice  onion 

1  tsp.  butter 
,       1  tsp.  flour 

Ys  tsp.  salt 

Few  grs.  celery  salt 

%  tsp.  parsley 

1  slice  bread  for  Impe- 
rial Sticks 

Cream  of  Tomato  Soup 
%  c  milk 
Yi  slice  onion 

1  tbsp.  flour 
Ys  c.  tomatoes 
rg  tsp.  soda 

%  tsp.  sugar 

2  tsp.  butter 
%  tsp.  salt 
Few  grs.  pepper 
1  cracker 


INDIVIDUAL  RECIPES  FOR  FIRST   SEMESTER 


[Page  »5) 


LESSON  12B 

Scalloped  Apples. 


Sauce. 


%  apple 

1^2  tbsp.  sugar 

Few  grains  cinnamon 

Few  grains  nutmeg 

14  c.  water 

^2  tsp.  lemon  juice 

I/3  c.  soft  bread  crumbs  packed 

1  tsp.  butter 


LESSON  14B 
Apple  Snow. 

^  apple  steamed 

%  beaten  white  of  egg 

1  tbsp.  powdered  sugar 


Prune  Whip 

3  prunes 

%  beaten  white  of  egg 

1  tbsp,  powdered  sugar 


Scalloped  Eggs. 

V2  egg 
1  tbsp.  meat 

4  tbsp.  crumbs  and  2   tsp.  butter 
3  tbsp.  white  sauce   (?)   enough  to 
moisten 


LESSON  13B 


Omelet 


1  egg 

Vs  tsp.  salt 
Few  grs.  pepper 
1  tbsp.  hot  water 
1/4  tbsp.  butter 


Custard  Sauc«. 

Yi  c.  scalded  milk 
^ig  tsp.  salt 
2  tsp.  sugar 

V2  yolk 

Few  drops  vanilla 


Sago  Pudding 

%  tbsp.  sago 
Ys  c.  milk 
^  yolk  and  white 
2  tsp.  sugar 
Few  grs.  salt 
4  drops  vanilla 


Grape  Sauce. 

3  tbsp.  grape  juice 
3  tbsp.  water 
%tsp.  corn  starch 
1  tsp.  lemon  juice 


LESSON  13B 


Pop- Overs 


4  tbsp.  flour 

i-B  tsp.  salt 

3%  tbsp.  milk 

2  tbsp.  beaten  egg 

fgtsp.  melted  butter 


LESSON  16B 
Salad  Dressing 

14  tsp.  salt 
J4  tsp.  mustard 
Y2  tsp.  sugar 
Few  grs.  cayenne 
IY2  tsp.  flour 

%  yolk 

3  tbsp.  scalded  milk 
1  tbsp.  vinegar 


LESSON  14B 

Cream  PufEs. 

2  tbsp.  butter 

4  tbsp.  boiling  water 

4  tbsp.  floui 

i  egg 


Potato  Salad 

Y2  c.  potato  cubed 
1  slice  apple 
1  tsp.  celery 


Salmon  Salad 

IY2  tbsp.  salmon 
Demonstrate  Cabbage  Salad 


fpRge  46]  BASIC  PiEimClPLDS  OF  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE 


NOTES:  [Page  47'* 


[Page  48]  BASIC  PRINCIPLES  01'  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE 


MOTES:  [Page  49] 


[Page  50]  BASIC  PRINCIPLES  OF  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  [Lesson  ISA] 

CARBOHYDRATES— HEAT  AND  ENERGY  PRODUCERS 

CARBOHYDRATES  CONTAIN  CARBON,  HYDROGEN  AND  OXYGEN 

.    The  hydrogen  and  oxygen  are  in  the  same  proportion  as  in  water  (H2  0). 

Containing  a  large  amount  of  carbon,  the  element  which  will  bum,  they  are  classed  as 
fuel  foods. 

The  Fuel  Foods  which  we  eat  combine  in  our  bodies  with  the  oxygen  inhaled  with  the  air 
we  breathe,  producing  heat  and  the  necessary  power  for  motion. 

The  slow  fire  in  our  bodies  takes  place  in  all  the  tissues. 

The  normal  temperature  of  the  body  is  98  plus  deg.  F.,  and  as  this  is  the  same  summer 
and  winter,  we  need  more  fuel  foods  in  the  winter  than  in  the  summer. 

Carbohydrates  furnish  energy  and  maintain  heat. 

Carbohydrates  include  all  the  starches  and  sugars. 

Carbohydrates  in  the  form  of  starch  furnish  a  bulky  food,  and  while  a  certain  amount  of 
bulk  is  necessary,  an  excess  causes  gastric  trouble. 

STARCH 
STARCH  is  a  white  glistening  powder.     It  is  fovmd  in  the  vegetable  kingdom  and  most 
abundantly  in  cereals   (rice,  wheat,  oats,  etc.),  sago,  tapioca,  nuts,  arrowroot  and  vegetables. 
Alone  it  cannot  sustain  life,  but  must  be  taken  with  foods  that  build  and  repair  tissue. 

Experiments  show  that : 

1.  CoM  water  separates  the  starch  grains. 

2.  Boiling  water  swells  and  softens  starch  grains.     If  starch  has  been  mixed  with 

cold  water  first,  boiling  water  added  forms  a  soft  paste. 

3.  Boiling  water  poured  on  dry  starch  forms  a  lumpy  mixture. 

4.  Starch   mixed   with   sugar  before   boiling   water   is   added   separates   the   starch 

grains  and  forms  a  smooth  paste.  ^ 

5.  Starch    mixed   with    melted   butter   before   adding   boiling   water   separates    the 

starch  grains  and  forms  a  smooth  mixture. 

6.  Starch   heated   without   water   becomes   sticky,   yellow,  brown,   then   black,  but 

does  not  swell  nor  soften. 

Heat  and  moisture  are  necessary  to  soften  starch. 

Raw  starch  is  not  soluble. 

All  foods  containing  starch  must  be  thoroly  cooked  in  order  to  prepare  them  for  diges- 
tion. 

The  digestion  of  starch  begins  in  the  mouth,  where,  if  masticated  sufficiently,  it  is  acted 
upon  by  the  ptyalin  of  the  saliva.  This  changes  the  starch  into  a  soluble  substance  called 
dextrine  (a  sugar).  The  food  passes  on  to  the  stomach  where  no  action  takes  place  on 
starch,  and  into  the  small  intestines,  where  the  change  into  dextrose  (or  sugar)  is  completed 
by  the  action  of  amylopsin,  a  ferment  in  the  pancreatic  juice. 

All  starch  must  be  changed  into  dextrose  before  it  can  be  absorbed  and  used  in  the  body. 

NOTES: 


[Lesson  19B] 


POTATOES 


[rage  51] 


A  POTATO  IS  A  TUBER  OR  AN  ENLARGEMENT  OF  THE  UNDERGROUND  STEM 

Potatoes  coutain  nium  tliaii  tiuee-quarters  water  and  nearly  one-fifth  starch.  They  also 
contain  a  very  small  amount  ol  protein  matter,  potash  salts  and  other  mineral  matter. 

Potatoes  should  be  kept  in  a  cool,  dark,  dry  place.  If  kept  in  a  light  place,  an  unpleas- 
ant llavor  is  developed. 

Potatoes  pared  before  being  boiled  lose  much  of  their  food  value  during  cooking. 

Most  of  the  mineral  matter  lies  just  beneath  the  skin. 

Always  pare  potatoes  thinly  when  skin  is  removed,  and  take  out  eyes  with  the  point  of 
'he  knife. 

Old  or  poor  potatoes  are  improved  by  soaking  for  one  hour  in  cold  water,  as  it  restores 
the  moisture  lost  by  long  drying. 

Rapidly  boiling  water  wears  off  the  outside  of  the  potato  before  the  middle  is  cooked. 
J.et  it  bubble  gently. 

If  the  outside  of  large  potatoes  becomes  soft  before  the  inside  is  cooked,  add  one  pint  of 
:;old  water.     There  is  heat  enough  inside  the  potato  to  finish  the  cooking. 

Quickly  baked  potatoes  are  more  easily  digested  than  boiled  potatoes. 

BOILED  POTATOES 

Choose  medium-sized  potatoes.  Wash,  pare  and  drop  into  cold  water.  Cook  in  freshly 
boiling  salted  water  until  soft.  Drain,  uncover  and  sliake'gently  over  the  fire  until  the  out- 
side is  dry  and  mealy. 

NOTE.— One  tsp.  salt  to   1   qt.  of  water. 


RICED  POTATOES 
Press  hot  boiled  potatoes  thru  the  ricer  or  a  coarse  strainer. 

MASHED  POTATOES 
6  medium-sized  potatoes  Vs  tsp.  pepper  1  tsp.  salt 

3  tbsp.  butter  i/s  e.  hot  milk  or  more 

Boil  and  drain  the  potatoes — rice  and  mash  in  the  saucepan  in  which  they  have  been 
cooked. 

Season,  add  the  butter,  and  gradually  the  hot  milk. 

Beat  until  light  with  a  fork,  or  wire  beater,  and  pile  on  a  hot  dish. 

BAKED  POTATOES 
Select  medium-sized  potatoes,  wash,  scrub  and  dry  them  well.     Bake  them  in  a  shallow 
pan  on  the  rack  in  a  mnderntelv  hot  oven  until  soft  (about  40  to  45  min).     Turn  them  occa- 
sionally, and  when  soft  press  iliem  betwem  the  lingers  to  break  the  skins  in  order  to  let  the 
steam  escape.     Serve  in  a  folded  napkin. 


POTATO  PUFFS 
Bake  6  potatoes.     When  baked,  cut  slice  from  top  of  each  and  scoop  out  inside. 
Mash  according  to  recipe  for  mashed  potatoes. 
Refill  the  jackets,  brush  the  tops  with  slightly  beaten  white  of  egg,  and  brown  in  oven. 

CREAMED  POTATOES 
Cut  cold  boiled  potatoes  into  cubes  and  allow  IV^  c.  white  sauce  to  2  c.  cubed  potatoes. 
Reheat  new  potatoes  in  white  sauce.     Finely  minced  parsley  may  be  added. 


[Page  52] 


BASIC  PRINCIPLES  OF  DOMESTIC  SCTENCE 


[Lesson  20A] 


CARBOHYDRATES— CEREALS 

CEHEALS  or  GRAINS  are  grasses,  the  seeds  of  which  are  used  for  food. 

The  word  "Cereal"  comes  from  the  name  of  the  Roman  goddess,  Ceres,  who  was  called 
the  "Goddess  of  Agriculture." 

Nature  provides  some  kind  of  a  cereal  in  almost  every  country — from  the  oats  and  rye 
of  the  northern  countries  to  the  rice  of  the  southern  countries.  Man  depends  on  it  for  his 
daily  bread.  The  following  data,  based  upon  the  results  gathered  in  dietary  studies,  shows 
that  cereal  foods  alone  supply  the  average  family  with  22%  of  the  total  food  consumed— 
furnishing  31%  protein,  7%  fat  and  55%  carbohydrates  in  the  diet.  Cereals  provide  a  com- 
pact food  in  a  dry  state  easily  kept.  They  contain  the  food  elements  in  a  desirable  propor- 
tion with  a  small  amount  of  refuse,  are  easily  prepared,  and  furnish  a  digestible  and  inex- 
pensive food.  All  grains  are  covered  with  a  hull  or  husk,  which  is  indigestible.  This  is  always 
removed.  They  also  have  another  coating,  a  bran  layer,  which  may  or  may  not  be  removed. 
This  is  rich  in  mineral  matter.    In  some,  the  germ  is  removed. 

Grains  should  be  thoroly  cooked  before  serving. 

Grains  crushed  are  called  grits. 

Grains  crushed  more  finely  or  coarsely  ground  make  meal. 

Grains  finely  ground  and  sifted  make  flour. 

Grains  are  usually  mixed  with  water  or  other  liquid  to  hydrate  the  starch,  boiled  or 
steamed  and  served  as  porridge  or  pudding,  or  baked  into  bread  and  cakes,  or  cooked  with 
meat  stock  in  soups. 

The  cooking  swells  and  bursts  the  starch  cells. 

The  grains  usually  used  for  food  are:     Wheat,  oats,  com,  rice,  rye,  and  barley. 

Among  the  most  important  are  wheat,  Indian  com  or  maize,  oats,  rice,  rye,  and  barley. 

From  these  are   prepared  various   breakfast   foods — oatmeal,  Wheatena,   Vitos,   etc. 

They  all  contain  more  or  less  starch  and  therefore  should  be  thoroly  cooked. 

Cereals  contain  from  66  to  75%  starch,  from  7  to  15%  proteid,  from  1  to  10%  fat,  from 
10  to  12%  water. 

Cereals  should  absorb  all  the  water  in  cooking. 

The  cooked  cereal  should  be  stiff  enough  to  be  chewed.     Why? 


TABLE  SHOWING  COMPOSITION  OF  CEREALS. 

Proteid 

Fat 

Starch 

Minerals 

Water 

Oatmeal 

15.6 

14.2 

13.7 

11.8 

10.4 

9.3 

8.9 

7.8 

7.1 

6.1 

7.3 
1.9 
2.2 
1.1 
1.0 
1.0 
2.2 
0.4 
0.9 
1.0 

68.0 
70.6 
70.3 
75.0 
75.6 
77.6 
75.1 
79.4 
78.5 
77.2 

1.9 
1.2 
2.0 
0.5 
0.5 
1.3 
0.9 
0.4 
0.8 
1.4 

7.2 

Entire  Wheat  Flour 

12.1 

Graham  Flour  

11.8 

Wheat  Flour  (Spring) 

11.6 

Wheat  Flour  (Winter) 

12.5 

Cornmeal 

10.8 

Pearl  Barley 

12.9 

Rice    

12.4 

Rye  Meal 

12.7 

Buckwheat  Flour    

14.3 

The  preceding  table  is  from  the  Department  of  Agriculture,  Washington. 

For  Family  Use,  cereals  should  be  bought  in  small  quantities,  and  kept  in  glass  or  tin 
jars  tightly  covered. 

GENERAL  RULES 

Directions  for  Lower  Part  of  Double  Boiler. — Fill  the  lower  part  of  the  double  boiler 
one-third  full  of  water;  it  must  be  kept  rapidly  boiling  while  cereal  is  cooking.  If  more 
water  is  needed  before  the  cereal  is  cooked,  add  boiling  water. 

Directions  for  Upper  Part  of  Double  Boiler. — Measure  the  water,  boil,  add  salt  and  the 
cereal  slowly,  and  place  directly  over  the  heat.     Boil  from  5  to  10  minutes,  stirring  to  pre- 
vent burning;  place  over  the  boiling  water  which  is  in  the  lower  part  of  double  boiler  and 
steam  until  cooked.     If  more  water  is  needed,  add  boiling  water. 
TABLE  showing  the  time  of  cooking,  and  proportions  of  salt  and  water  for  Breakfast  Cereals. 


KIND 

Tsp.ofSalt 

to  a  Cup  of 

Cereal 

Cupfuls  of 
Water  to  1 
Cup  Cereal 

Method  of 
Cooking 

Time  of  Cooking 
in  Hours 

OATMEAL,  ROLLED  OATS,  etc 

RICE    

2 

8  or  more 

3 

6 

4 

4 

Steam 
Boil 
Steam 
Boil 

Steam 

Steam 

1  hour  or  more 
Y'}  hour  or  more 

RICE    

1  hour 

INDIAN  MEAL 

If  soaked,  3; 

BOMINY 

If  not,  6 
If  soaked,  3; 

FARINA  and  other  fine  wheat  pro- 
ductions     

If  not,  6 
1  to  3  hours 

[Lesson  20B]  CEREALS  [Page  531 


Oatmeal  Mush  vnth  Apples 

OATMEAL  MUSH  WITH  APPLES 

1  c.  oatmeal   (rolled)  1  tsp.  salt 

2  c.  boiling  water  6  cooked  apples 

Place  lower  part  of  double  boiler  %  full  of  water  over  the  fire. 

Measure  the  boiling  water  and  salt  into  top  part  of  double  boiler.  Place  directly  over 
the  fire.  Add  oatmeal  gradually.  Boil  directly  over  the  fire  from  5  to  10  minutes.  Place 
upper  part  of  double  boiler  containing  cereal  into  lower  part  of  boiler  containing  water. 
Cook  1  hour,  or  more. 

Core  apples;  leave  large  cavities;  pare  and  cook  in  syrup  (made  of  1%  c.  of  water  and 
Ys  c.  sugar)  until  soft.    Fill  the  centers  with  oatmeal  mush  and  serve  with  cream. 

WHEATENA  WITH  DATES,  FIGS,  PRUNES,  ETC. 

%  c.  wheatena  2  c.  of  boiling  water  %  lb.  dates,  stoned  and 

%  c.  cold  water  1  tsp.  salt  cut  in  pieces 

Mix  cereal,  salt,  dates  and  cold  water;  add  boiling  water  gradually,  place  on  front  of 
range.     Boil  5  minutes,  then  cook  in  double  boiler  1  hour  or  more.     Serve  with  cream. 

PETTIJOHN'S  BREAKFAST  FOOD 

1  c.  Pettijohn's  Breakfast  Food  1  tsp.  salt 

1^4  c.  water  Follow  rules  for  cooking  cereals. 

CEREAL   OMELET 

4  eggs  ^  e.  or  4  tbsp.  soft  cooked 

%  tsp.  salt  cereal,    Vitos,   Cream    of 

Wheat,  etc. 

Beat  yolks  until  thick;  add  salt  and  cooked  cereal. 

Fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  and  cook  in  a  buttered  omelet  pan. 

Follow  directions  in  Lesson  13B. 

NOTE.— ALL  CEREALS  SHOULD  BE  THOROLY  COOKED;  THE  LONGER  THE  BET- 
TER. CEREALS  MAY  BE  COOKED  THE  PRECEDING  DAY  AND  THEN  REHEATED 
FOR  BREAKFAST.  COVER  WITH  A  CLEAN,  DAMP  CLOTH  SO  THAT  MOISTURE  WILL 
NOT  DROP  INTO  CEREAL  FROM  A  TIN  COVER. 

CEREALS  ARE  COOKED  TO  ADVANTAGE  IN  FIRELESS  COOKERS. 

NOTE.— GRATED  CHEESE  MAY  BE  ADDED  TO  ANY  COLD  LEFT-OVER  CEREAL, 
MADE  INTO  CROQUETTES  AND  FRIKD,  COLD  CORNMUAL  MUSH  MAY  BE  SLICED 
4J^  S4yTED. 


[Page  543  BASIC  PRINCIPLES  OF  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  [Lesson  21A] 

CARBOHYDRATES— RICE 

RICE  IS  A  CEREAL,  grown  in  Ceylon,  China,  Japan,  Central  America  and  the  Gulf  States. 

Rice  is  grown  in  swampy  places  and  the  very  best  rice  is  grown  where  there  is  a  foot 
or  two  of  water  above  the  roots  around  the  stem  of  the  plants. 

There  are  two  kinds  of  rice  commonly  sold,  the  Carolina  rice  which  is  a  long  siend.-^r 
grain,  and  the  Japanese  rice  which  is  a  short,  flat,  oval  grain. 

The  commercial  rice  }s  usually  polished  and  coated  with  glucose  and  talcum.  The  polish- 
ing removes  the  covering  which  is  rich  in  mineral  matter  and  therefore  makes  it  undesirable. 
Buy  unpolished  rice,  as  it  is  not  only  richer  in  mineral  matter  but  also  in  protein. 

Rice  is  the  richest  in  starch  (having  about  79  per  cent)  and  the  poorest  in  protein  and 
fat,  of  all  the  cereals.     The  starch  grains  are  small  and  are  easily  digested. 

Rice  is  said  to  be  the  main  food  of  one-third  of  the  human  race.  With  the  exception 
of  wheat,  more  millions  of  people  eat  rice  as  their  main  food  than  any  other  one  cereal. 
The  people  of  China,  Japan  and  India  use  rice  as  their  main  food,  not  alone,  but  in  combina- 
tion with  protein  foods. 

Alone,  rice  is  not  a  perfect  food.  It  should  be  eaten  with  foods  that  build  and  repair 
tissues, .as  eggs,  milk,  meat,  cheese,  etc. 

When  boiled,  rice  absorbs  five  times  its  weight  in  water;  but  loses  eome  of  its  small 
amount  of  mineral  matter. 

The  water  in  which  rice  has  been  cooked  may  be  utilized  in  mixing  bread,  or  it  may  be 
combined  with  vegetables  and  used  as  a  basis  for  soups. 

The  older  and  drier  the  rice,  the  longer  it  takes  to  soften. 

TO  WASH  RICE. — Put  rice  into  a  wire  strainer;  put  strainer  in  a  bowl  of  cold  water, 
and  rub  the  rice  between  the  hands;  change  water  two  or  three  times,  or  until  rice  is  clean, 
when  the  water  will  be  clean.  Polished  rice  should  be  washed  in  six  waters  to  remove  the 
talc  and  glucose  covering. 

Review  Carbohydrntos. 

Make  out  five  questions. 

NOTES: 


[Lesson  21B] 


CARBOHYDRATES 


[Page  55] 


1  c.  rice 


RICE 

PART  I 

BOILED    RICE 

2  qts.  boiling  water 


1  tsp.  salt 


Pick  over  rice;  add  slowly  to  boiling  salted  water  so  as  not  to  check  the  boiling  of  the 
water.  Boil  30  minutes,  or  until  soft.  Drain  in  a  coarse  strainer  and  pour  over  it  1  qt.  of 
the  cold  water,  in  order  to  separate  the  starch  grains.  Return  to  kettle,  place  on  back  of 
range  and  let  it  stand  to  dry  off,  when  kernels  are  distinct.  When  stirring  rice  always  use 
a  fork  to  avoid  breaking  kernels. 


STEAMED  RICE 


3  to  4  c.  boiling  water  or 
scalded   milk 


1  c.  rice 
1  tsp.  salt 

Put  water  and  salt  in  top  of  double  boiler,  place  on  range,  and  add  gradually  well  washed 
rice,  stirring  with  a  fork  to  prevent  adhering  to  boiler.  Boil  5  minutes,  place  over  undei 
part  of  double  boiler  and  steam  45  minutes,  or  until  kernels  are  soft.  Uncover  that  steam 
may  escape. 


FLOATING  ISLAND 

1%   c.  scalded  milk  14  c.  sugar  3  whites  of  eggs 

3  yolks  of  eggs  i/s  tsp.  salt  V2  tsp.  vanilla 

Scald  the  milk,  beat  the  whites  until  stiff.  Fold  in  2  tbsp.  of  sugar,  and  turn  them  into 
the  hot  milk  and  cook  3  minutes.  Remove  whites  with  a  tablespoon  into  a  serving  di.sli. 
Prepare  Custard  Sauce.  Mix  the  yolks,  sugar  and  salt  in  a  bowl.  Pour  the  scalded  milk  in 
which  the  whites  have  been  cooked,  into  the  yolks.  Stir  while  adding.  Pour  back  into  the 
double  boiler  and  cook  until  a  coating  is  formed  on  the  spoon.  Remove  immediately;  add 
riavoring.  Pour  around  the  cooked  whites.  This  may  be  served  with  boiled  or  steamed  rice 
or  alone. 

PART  II. 


Rice  with  Pineapples,  Walnuts  and  Whipped  Cream 


RICE  WITH  APPLES  OR  PINEAPPLE 


c.  steamed  rice 
eggs 


y2  c.  milk 
%  c.  sugar 


2  steamed  or  cooked  apples 
or  14  can  pineapple 


Pare  and  core  the  apples,  cut  in  eighths  and  cook  until  soft. 


Add  well  beaten  yolks  of  eggs,  sugar,  milk  and  cooked  apples  cut  in  small  pieces  to  the 
steamed  rice.  Fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  and  liake  30  minutes  in  a  well  buttered  and 
crumbed  baking  dish.     SERVE  WITH  CREAM  OR  FRUIT  SAUCE. 

Raisins  or  dates  may  be  used  in  place  of  apples. 


[Page  56]  BASIC  PRINCIPLES  OF  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  [Lesson  22 A] 

CARBOHYDRATES— SUGAR 

SUGAR  IS  A  SWEET  CRYSTALLINE  SUBSTANCE  AND,  LIKE  STARCH,  IS  A  CAR- 
BOHYDRATE. 

It  differs  from  starch  in  being  soluble  in  cold  water,  and  in  its  sweet   taste. 

Sugar  is  obtained  from  sugar  cane,  sugar  beets,  sorghum  and  sugar  maple. 

SUGAR  CANES  are  grown  in  the  Gulf  States,  Cuba,  Hawaiian  Islands,  East  Indies. 
India  and  in  other  warm  moist  countries.  They  resemble  cornstalks,  and  the  spongy  sub- 
stance between  the  joints  is  filled  with  a  sweet  juice  or  sap,  from  which  cane  sugar  is  made. 
Sometimes  as  many  as  75  lbs.  of  sap  are  obtained  from  100  lbs.  of  cane.  The  sap  is  heated 
in  great  kettles  which  causes  the  water  to  evaporate,  leaving  two  products,  molasses  and 
brown  sugar.  The  brown  sugar  is  then  refined  by  putting  it  through  filters  and  cylinders 
which  contain  burned  bones  (bone  black).  When  the  liquid  comes  out  of  the  bone  filter  it  is 
a  clear  syrup.  This  is  crystallized  and  made  into  Granulated,  Loaf,  Powdered  and  Confec- 
tioners'  Sugar. 

GLUCOSE,  OR  GRAPE  SUGAR,  is  found  in  honey,  fresh  fruit  and  on  the  skin  of  dried 
fruits,  such  as  raisins,  dates,  etc.  Commercial  glucose  is  made  from  tlie  starch  of  corn.  Starch 
boiled  for  any  length  of  time  with  an  acid  changes  some  of  it  into  glucose. 

SUGAR  RANKS  FIRST  AS  AN  ENERGY  GIVING  FOOD.  It  passes  quickly  into  the 
circulation,  so  it  produces  energy  in  a  very  short  time.  It  forms  part  of  the  rations  of  the 
soldiers  of  this  and  other  countries. 

SUGAR  is  a  great  preservative,  hence  its  use  in  preserving  fruits  and  milk. 

EATEN  AT  PROPER  TIMES,  CANDY  IS  A  USEFUL  ARTICLE  OF  FOOD.  It  should 
not  be  eaten  to  excess  nor  before  meals.  If  too  much  is  eaten  at  a  time,  it  is  likely  to  ferment 
in  the  stomach.  Three  or  four  ounces  a  day  may  be  considered  the  right  amount  for  an 
adult. 

IN  COOKING  SUGAR  FOR  CANDY,  use  an  agate  or  an  iron  pan,  as  it  is  less  liable  to 
burn  than  in  tin. 

Butter  pans  for  candy  before  it  is  cooked. 

Have  ready  some  cold  water  in  which  to  test  the  candy. 

When  the  candy  is  poured  into  the  pan,  do  not  scrape  the  saucepan  over  it,  nor  allow  any 
of  the  scrapings  to  fall  into  it. 

Scraping  or  stirring  the  candy  while  cooling,  after  it  has  been  poured  into  the  pan,  will 
cause   it  to   become   sugary. 

Acid  substances  like  lemon-juice  or  cream-of-tartar  added  to  the  candy  while  cooking, 
will  keep  it  clear.     Temperatures: 

232   to   242   deg.   F. — Soft  ball.  345  deg. — Caramelization  point. 

248   deg.   F.— Hardball. 

NOTES: 


[Lesson  22B] 


CANDY 


[Page  57J 


PEANUT  CANDY 

2  c.  sugar  1  qt.  peanuts  14  tsp.  salt 

SHELL,  remove  skins,  and  finely  chop  peanuts.  Sprinkle  with  the  salt.  Put  sugar  into  a 
perfectly  smooth  pan.  Place  on  the  range  and  stir  until  sugar  is  melted,  taking  care  to 
keep  the  sugar  from  the  sides.     Add  the  nut  meat  and  pour  at  once  into  the  buttered  pans. 

PINOCHE 

2  c.  brown  sugar  4  tbsp.  butter  15  drops  vanilla 

Yo  c.  milk  1  c.  nut  meats 

BOIL  the  first  three  ingredients  until  a  soft  ball  can  be  formed  in  cold  water. 

Eemove  from  fire,  cool,  add  nut  meat  and  vanilla,  and  beat  until  creamy. 

Pour  into  buttered  pans.     Cut  in  squares. 

The  butter  may  be  omitted  and  one  cup  of  milk  used  in  place  of  the  1^  cupful.        > 

SEA  FOAM 

2  c.  sugar  %  c.  corn  syrup  ^       Whites  two  eggs 

%  c.  boiling  water  %  c.  chopped  nut  meats  %   tsp.  vanilla 

BOIL  first  three  ingredients  until  a  hard  ball  can  be  formed  in  cold  water,  or  until  it 
spins  a  four  inch  thread.  Pour  syrup  gradually  into  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  eggs;  add 
nut  meats  and  vanilla;  beat  until  creamy;  pour  into  a  buttered  pan  to  cool. 

CHOCOLATE  FUDGE 

ll^  c.  sugar  2  tsp.  butter  %  tsp.  vanilla 

%  c.  milk  1  sq.  Baker's  chocolate 

BOIL  first  four  ingredients  until  a  soft  ball  can  be  formed  when  tried  in  cold  water. 

Remove  from  fire  and  let  stand  10  minutes.    Beat  until  the  mixture  thickens;  add  vanilla. 

Pour  quickly  into  a  buttered  pan.     Cool  and  cut  in  squares. 

FRENCH  CREAM 

1  egg  white  %  tbsp.  cold  water  1  tsp.  vanilla 

1  lb.  confectioner's  sugar 
MIX  the  egg  white,  cold  water  and  vanilla.    Beat  until  thoroly  mixed.    Add  gradually  the 
sifted  sugar  to  the  liquid  until  the  mixture  is  stiff  enough  to  knead.    It  may  be  used  instead 
of  fondant,  for  creamed  walnuts,  dates  and  almonds. 


1^4  c.  light  brown  sugar 


TAFFY 

1  c.  molasses  ^    tsp.   soda 

1  tbsp.  butter 

BOIL  together  the  first  three  ingredients  until  when  tried  in  cold  water  it  will  form  % 
bard  ball,    Add  the  soda,  and  pour  into  a  buttered  pan,    PuU  wh&n  ^lightl^^  Q09I. 


[Page  58]  BASIC  PRINCIPLES  OF  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  [Lesson  23A] 

WHEAT 

Wheat  is  a  Cereal  grown  in  Russia,  United  States,  France,  India,  Austria,  Argentine,  etc.* 

One-fifth  of  the  whole  world's  crop  is  now  raised  in  the  United  States. 

Minneapolis  is  the  greatest  flour  center  in  the  world. 

Most  of  the  bread  flour  made  from  Spring  Wheat  is  ground  in  Minneapolis  and  Duluth, 
while  the  pastry  flour  made  from  Winter  Wheat  is  ground  in  St.  Louis. 

Wheat  has  five  times  as  much  protein,  the  tissue-building  matter,  and  three  times  as 
much  carbohydrate,  the  heat  and  energy  giving  matter,  as  the  same  quantity  of  potato. 


n 


A  Grain  of  Wheat 

A  Grain  of  Wheat  consists  of — 

1.  An  outer  covering  or  husk,  which  is  always  removed  before  milling. 

2.  Bran  coats   which  contain  mineral  matter. 

3.  Gluten,  the  proteid  matter. 

4.  Starch,  the  center  and  largest  part  of  the  grain. 

Lying  next  to  it  is  the  tiny  germ  which  contains  the  fat  or  oil. 

Wheat  is  classed  as  Spring  Wheat  and  Winter  Wheat. 

Winter  Wheat  is  planted  in  the  Fall  and  lies  in  the  ground  during  the  winter,  and  is 
reaped  early  the  next  summer. 

Spring  Wheat  is  planted  in  the  spring  and  reaped  in  the  fall. 

Spring  Wheat  contains  more  gluten  and  is  harder  than  winter  wheat  and  is  used  for 
bread  flour.  It  is  more  economical  to  use  bread  flour  for  making  bread,  as  less  flour  is 
required. 

AVinter  Wheat  contains  proportionately  more  starch,  is  softer  than  Spring  Wlieat,  and  is 
used  for  pastry  flour.  It  is  more  economical  to  use  pastry  flour  for  pies  and  cakes,  as  less 
shortening  is  needed. 

Macaroni  Wheat  is  harder  than  the  ordinary  Spring  wheat,  contains  more  gluten,  and  is 
made  into  flour  used  for  macaroni  and  bread  making. 

Three  kinds  of  Flour  are  made  from  Wheat. 

Graham,  Entire  or  Whole  Wheat,  and  the  Wliite  Flour. 

Graham  Flour  contains  the  entire  grain,  including  the  outer  brnn  coats. 

Entire  Wheat  Flour  contains  the  entire  grain,  not  including  tlie  two  outer  bran  coats. 

White  Flour  is  made  by  grinding  and  sifting  the  grain  several  times,  during  which 
process  all  the  bran  is  removed. 

/•  Protein    11.3 

The  Average  Composition  of    J   Carbohydrates     74.6 

WheatFlour                   I  Mineral' Matter  "  l!  1  i!  i!  i!::  i::!  i::::  l!  i!  l!  i!  1 :] !   ois 
V  Water    12.5 


•Named  in  order  of  amount  grown  in  each  country. 

NOTES: 


[Lesson  23B]  MACARONI  [Page  59] 

Macaroni,  Spaghetti  and  Vermicelli  are  made  from  Macaroni  Wheat  Flour. 

The  flour  is  mixed  with  enough  water  to  make  a  stiflF  paste.  This  paste,  which  is  cut 
into  cakes  about  one  foot  square  and  from  one  to  three  inches  in  thickness,  is  put  into  a 
steam  heated  iron  cylinder.  The  bottom  of  this  cylinder  has  a  copper  plate  filled  with  holes 
having  the  centers  filled,  and  by  means  of  a  cover  fitted  to  a  screw  press,  the  mixture  is 
forced  through  as  rods,  tubes,  etc.  After  these  are  cut  into  lengths  of  about  three  feet,  they 
are  hung  up  to  dry  for  five  days  before  they  are  packed  in  boxes  for  the  market. 

Good  macaroni  is  rctugh,  elastic  and  hard,  of  a  yellowish  color  and  not  starchy. 

Macaroni  is  considered  a  valuable  food,  as  it  is  nutritious  and  inexpensive.  It  should, 
however,  be  served  with  cream,  butter  or  cheese  to  make  it  a  perfect  food.  In  cooking, 
macaroni  absorbs  three  times  its  weight  in  water.  Therefore  it  must  be  cooked  in  a  large 
quantity  of  water. 

BOILED  MACARONI 

%   cup  macaroni,  broken  into  inch  pieces 
2  quarts  boiling  water 
1  tbsp.  salt 

Cook  macaroni  in  boiling  salted  water  20  minutes,  or  until  soft. 

Drain  in  strainer.     Pour  over  cold  water  to  prevent  pieces  from  adhering. 

MACARONI  WITH  WHITE  SAUCE 

Cook  as  for  Boiled  Macaroni,  and  reheat  in  1%  cups  White  Sauce.    (Lesson  7B.) 


BAKED  MACARONI  WITH  CHEESE 

Put  a  layer  of  boiled  macaroni  in  a  buttered  baking  dish,  sprinkle  with  grated  cheese. 
Repeat.  Pour  over  White  Sauce,  cover  with  buttered  crumbs,  and  bake  until  crumbs  are 
brown. 

MACARONI  WITH  TOMATO  SAUCE 

Brown  2  tbsp.  butter;  add  3  tbsp.  flour,  and  gradually  1%  cups  tomato  juice  which  has 
been  previously  cooked  with  1  slice  onion,  2  cloves;  3  pepper  corns  and  %  tsp.  salt. 
Reheat  boiled  macaroni  in  the  tomato   sauce. 

MACARONI  SALAD 

%  c.  boiled  macaroni  cut  into  %-inch  pieces  ^^  c.  boiled  ham  cut  into  ^-inch  cubes. 

%  c.  sweet  pickles  cut  into  small  pieces 

Mix  and  moisten  with  boiled  salad  dressing  (See  Lesson  16B).  Serve  on  lettuce  leaves, 
in  tomato  cups,  or  garnish  with  parsley,  etc. 

LEFT  OVERS  OF  MEAT  may  be  used  with  the  "Baked  Macaroni"  and  th^  "Macai^n" 
with  Tomato  Sauce." 


[Page  60]  BASIC  PRINCIPLES  OF  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  [Lesson  24A] 

FLOUR  MIXTURES 

MIXTURES  of  Flour  or  Meal  and  Liquid  are  called  batters  or  doughs,  according  to  the 
quantity  of  liquid  used. 

Batter  is  a  mixture  of  flour  and  liquid  thin  enough  to  be  beaten. 

Pour  Batter  is  a  thin  batter — 1  meas.  liquid  to  1  meas.  flour.     Example:  Griddle  Cakes. 

Drop  Batter  is  a  thick  batter — 1  meas.  of  liquid  to  2  meas.  of  flour.     Example:  Muffins. 

Dough  is  a  mixture  of  flour  and  liquid  stiff  enough  to  be  handled  on  a  board. 

Soft  Dough. — 1  meas.  liquid  to  3  meas.  flour.     Example:  Baking  Powder  Biscuit. 

Stiff  Dough. — 1  meas.  liquid  to  4  meas.  flour.    Example:  Pastry. 

The  proportions  vary  according  to  the   flour  and  liquid  used. 

The  liquid  ingredients  include  water,  milk,  molasses,  eggs,  etc. 

The  dry  ingredients  include  flour,  meal,  sugar,  salt,  spices,  baking  powder,  etc. 

The  FATS  called  "shortening,"  added  to  make  the  mixture  tender,  include  butter,  lard, 
drippings,  suet,  chicken  fat,  etc. 

A  mixture  of  flour  and  liquid  alone  when  cooked  woufd  be  hard  and  indigestible. 

Batters  and  doughs  are  made  "light"  or  porous  by  the  introduction  of  a  gas  which  is 
expanded  by  the  heat  applied  during  the  cooking. 

The  gases  that  aid  in  making  a  dough  "light"  or  porous  are  air,  steam  and  carbon 
dioxide. 

Air  may  be  introduced  into  the  mixture  directly,  or  may  be  first  beaten  into  eggs  and 
then  added  to  the  mixture.     (See  Lesson  13A.) 

STEAM.— (See  Lesson  ISA.) 

Carbon  dioxide  may  be  formed  within  the  mixture  by  the  action  of  yeast  during  fer- 
mentation, or  it  may  be  set  free  by  chemical  action  from  substances  containing  the  elements 
of  which  it  is  composed.     Example:  baking  powder.     (See  Lesson  25A.) 

■i 
GENERAL  DIRECTIONS  FOR  BATTERS  AND  DOUGHS 

Sift  flour  before  measuring. 

Put  flour  by  spoonfuls  into  the  cup;  do  not  press  or  shake  down. 

Mix  and  sift  dry  ingredients. 

Measure  dry  and  then  liquid  ingredients.     Add  the  liquid  to  the  dry  ingredients. 

Shortening  may  be  rubbed  or  chopped  in  while  cold,  or  creamed;  or  it  may  be  melted  and 
then  added  to  dry  ingredients,  or  added  after  the  liquid. 

Use  2  level  tsp.  baking  powder  to  1  c.  flour. 

It  eggs  are  used,  less  baking  powder  will  be  required. 

Baking  powder  mixtures  should  be  handled  as  little  as  possible. 

Baking  powder  mixtures  require  a  hot   oven. 

In  baking  batters  and  doughs,  the  larger  the  quantity  the  lower  the  temperature  must  be 
that  the  heat  may  penetrate  the  interior,  expand  the  gas  and  harden  the  albumen  and 
gluten. 

NOTES: 


[Lesson  24B]  '        GRIDDLE   CAKES— POUR   BATTER  [Page     61] 

USE  A  FRYING  PAN  OR  GRIDDLE. 

Keep  the  pan  hot  without  burning  the  cakes. 

A  piece  of  fat  salt  pork  or  beef  fat  placed  on  a  fork,  or  butter,  may  be  used  to  grease 
the  pan. 

A  soapstone  or  aluminum  griddle   must  never  be  greased. 

Let  the  fat  begin  to  smoke  before  cooking  the  cakes. 

Pour  the  mixture  from  the  tip  of  the  spoon;  cook  on  one  side. 

When  puffed  full  of  bubbles  and  cooked  on  the  edges,  turn  and  cook  on  the  other  side. 

If  large  bubbles  form  at  once  to  the  top  of  the  cakes,  the  griddle  is  too  hot. 

If  the  top  of  the  cake  stiffens  before  the  under  side  is  cooked,  the  griddle  is  not  hot 
enough. 

Never  turn  a  cake  twice. 

Remove  all  scraps  and  wipe  pan  after  each  set  of  cakes  are  cooked. 

Grease  pan  and  repeat. 

Serve  griddle  cakes  as  soon  as  cooked. 

SOUR  MILK  GRIDDLE  CAKES 

2  c.  flour  2  c.  sour  milk  y^,  tsp.  salt 

1  tsp.  soda  1  egg 

Mix  and  sift  dry  ingredients;  add  sour  milk  and  <i^<g  well  beaten. 

Cook  according  to  general  directions. 


WHOLE  WHEAT  GRIDDLE  CAKES 

%  c.  entire  wheat  flour  %  tsp.  salt  1  egg 

1  c.  flour  3  tbsp.  sugar  1%  c.  milk 

3  tsp.  or  1  tbsp.  baking  powder  ■  1  tbsp.  melted  butter 

Mix  and  sift  dry  ingredients;  add  milk  and  well  beaten  egg  slowly. 
Beat  and  add  butter.     Cook  according  to  general  directions. 

BREAD   GRIDDLE   CAKES 

iy2  c.  stale  bread  crumbs  2  tbsp.  butter  %  c.   flour 

IV2  c-  scalded  milk  3%  tsp.  baking  powder  i^  tsp.  salt 

2  eggs 
Add  milk  and  butter  to  crumbs  and  soak  until  crumbs  are  soft.     Add  eggs  well  beaten, 
then  flour,  salt  and  baking  powder  mixed  and  sifted.     Beat.     Cook  as  other  griddle  cakes. 

LEMON  SYRUP 

1  c.  sugar  Ys  c.  water  1  tbsp.  lemon  juice  1  tsp.  butter 

Boil  sugar  and  water  5  minutes.     Remove  from  fire,  stir  in  lemon  juice  and  butter. 
Serve  at  once. 

WAFFLES 
1%   c,  flour  3  tsp.  or  1  tbsp.  baking  %  c.  milk 

2  tbsp.   sugar  powder  3  tbsp.  melted  butter 
1  tsp.  salt                                      2  well  beaten  eggs 

Mix  and  sift  dry  ingredients.     Add  eggs,  milk  and  melted  butter.     Mix.    Beat  thoroly. 
Cook  in  well  greased  waffle  irons. 


[Page  62]  BASIC  PMNCtPLES  OP  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  [Lesson  25A] 

BAKING  POWDER 

BAKING   POWDER   contains    the   substances   used   to   produce   carbon   dioxide    (COS). 

The  substances  are  an  alkaline:  ex.,  bi-carbonate  of  soda  (cooking  soda)  and  an  acid; 
ex.,  cream  of  tartar,  phosphate,  etc.  These,  together  with  heat  and  moisture,  form  the  gas 
which,  in  its  effort  to  escape,  fills  the  mixture  with  bubbles,  making  it  light  and  porous. 

If  the  mixture  is  baked,  at  the  right  temperatures,  while  the  gas  is  forming,  the  heat 
of  the  oven  firmly  fixes  the  expanded  bubbles  in  place  and  sets  the  mixture. 

The  gluten  of  the  flour  enables  the  walls  of  the  gas  bubbles  to  become  firm.  The  walls 
become  firm  sooner  in  an  egg  mixture  because  the  albumen  coagulates  at  a  low  temperature. 

During  baking  the  gas  escapes  into  the  air,  leaving  a  small  amount  of  mineral  matter  in 
the  mixture.     Example:  Rochelle  salts,  when  a  cream  of  tartar  baking  powder  is  used. 

Phosphates,  when  a  phosphate  baking  powder  is  used. 

Aluminum  sulphate  when  an  alum  baking  powder  is  used. 

EXPERIMENTS 

I.  Put  into  a  heavy  glass  %  tsp.  soda,  and  ^  c.  boiling  water.  Mix  thoroly.  What 
happens  ? 

II.  Add  to  No.  I,  %  tsp.  cream  tartar.     What  happens? 

III.  Put  into  a  glass  %  tsp.  soda  and  %  tsp.  cream  of  tartar. 
rv.     Add  to  No.  Ill,  1  tbsp.  cold  water  and  stir.     What  happens? 
V,       Add  to  No.  IV,  %  c.  boiling  water. 

I.  Bicarbonate  of  soda  is  an  alkaline  substance  and  contains  carbon  dioxide.  If  hot 
water  is  added  it  will  set  free  carbon  dioxide. 

II.  An  acid  substance  like  cream  of  tartar  added  to  No.  I  will  liberate  more  gas,  and  if 
the  right  proportion  of  acid  is  used  it  will  set  free  all  the  gas,  leaving  the  remaining  mixture 
neutral;  that  is,  neither  acid  nor  alkaline. 

III.  A  dry  mixture  of  soda  and  cream  of  tartar  will  not  liberate  the  gas. 

IV.  Cold  water  added  to  No.  Ill  liberates  gas. 

V.  Boiling  water  added  to  No.  Ill  causes  a  rapid  escape  of  the  gas. 

Other  acids  added  to  baking  soda  will  liberate  the  C  02  gas  in  the  same  way.     Example : 
Bour  milk  and  soda,  molasses  and  soda. 
To  1  c.  sour  milk  use  %  tsp.  soda. 
To  1  c.  molasses  use  1  tsp.  soda. 

HOW  TO  PREPARE  BAKING  POWDER 

One-half  pound  bicarbonate  of  soda. 

One  pound  and  two  ounces  cream  of  tartar. 

One-quarter  pound  corn  starch. 

Free  the  soda  from  lumps;  add  to  it  the  cornstarch,  and  sift  six  times.  Add  the  cream 
of  tartar  and  sift  six  times.     Put  into  tin  boxes  and  keep  tightly  covered. 

There  is  enough  moisture  in  the  air  to  start  the  action  of  the  powder,  so  a  little  corn- 
starch is  added  to  take  up  this  moisture  and  keep  the  powder  dry. 

NOTES: 


[Lesson  &5B3  MTlFPmS  [Page  63] 

GENERAL  DIRECTIONS. — Measure,  mix  and  sift  dry  ingredients.  Add  well  beaten 
egg,  milk,  and  shortening  melted.  Beat  vigorously.  Half  fill  well  greased  muffin  tins.  Bake 
ina  hot  oven  20  or  30  minutes. 

NOTE. — By  measuring  dry  ingredients  first,  then  liquids  and  fat,  you  need  only  use  one 
cup.    When  milk  and  eggs  are  used,  rinse  egg  from  bowl  with  milk. 


PLAIN   MUFFINS 

2  c.  flour  4  tsp.  baking  powder  1  c.  milk 

2  tbsp.  sugar  %   tsp.  salt  2  to  4  tbsps.  melted  butter 

1  or  2  eggs 
Mix  according  to  directions.     If  two  eggs  are  used,  less  baking  powder  is  required.     If  a 
richer  muffin  is  desired,  use  cranberry  muffin  recipe,  omitting  the  berries. 

GRAHAM  MUFFINS 

1%   c.  graham  flour  4  tsp.  baking  powder  1  c.  milk 

%  e.  flour  1  tsp.  salt  1  to  2  tbsps.  melted  butter 

%  c.  sugar  1  egg 

Mix  according  to  directions. 

OATMEAL  MUFFINS 

%  c.  rolled  oats  %  tsp.  salt  4  tsp.  baking  powder 

1  c.  scalded  milk  2  tbsp.  melted  butter  1  egg 

3  tbsp.  sugar  li/4    c.   flour 

Add  scalded  milk  to  the  rolled  oats.  Let  stand  5  minutes.  Add  sugar,  salt  and  melted 
butter. 

Sift  in  flour  and  baking  powder;  mix  thoroly;  add  well  beaten  egg.  Drop  into  buttered 
muffin   tins.     Bake. 

CORN  MEAL  GEMS 

%    c.   com   meal  3  tsp.  baking  powder  1  egg 

1  tbsp   sugar  %  tsp.  salt  1  to  2  tbsp.  melted  butter 

%   c.  flour  1  c.  milk 

Scald  one-half  the  milk,  then  pour  over  the  corn  meal;  add  the  butter,  salt  and  sugar. 
Let  stand  until  cool.  Add  the  yolk,  remaining  milk,  the  sifted  flour  and  baking  powder. 
Beat  thoroly,  and  fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten  white.     Bake  in  greased  muffin  tins. 

CRANBERRY  MUFFINS' 

Vs  c.  butter  %  c.  milk  1  c.  berries  (sprinkled  with 

%  c.  sugar  2  e.  sifted  flour  2  tbsp.  sugar) 

1  egg  4  tsp.  baking  powder 

Cream  the  butter,  add  sugar,  well  beaten  egg,  and  milk,  then  the  flour  sifted  with  the 
B.  P.  Add  berries,  drop  into  muffin  pans,  and  bake.  If  the  berries  are  omitted,  rich,  plain 
nraffinB  are  the  result. 


[Page  64] 


BASIC  PRINCIPLES  OF  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE 


[Lesson  26A] 


CORN 

Corn  is  a  native  of  America. 

It  is  claimed  that  there  is  more  CORN  raised  in  the  United  States  than  any  other  cereal. 

It  is  a  native  of  America  and  Mexico. 

With  the  exception  of  OATS,  corn  is  considered  the  richest  in  fat  of  all  the  cereald. 

The  germ  in  the  corn  is  proportionately  large  and  rich  in  fat.  It  becomes  rancid  easily 
and  is  therefore  often  removed  in  the  preparation  of  corn  meal.  This,  of  course,  reduces 
the  food  value  of  the  meal. 

It  is  deficient  in  gluten  and  salts,  and  should  therefore  be  eaten  with  foods  containing 
gluten  and  mineral  matter. 

It  is  a  very  valuable  food,  especially  in  winter.     Why? 

There  are  three  kinds  of  Corn:     Field  Corn,  Sweet  Corn,  and  Popcorn. 

From  the  Field  Corn  we  get  corn  meal,  cornstarch,  corn  oil,  corn  syrup,  etc. 

Broken  grains  of  corn  are  known  as  hominy. 

Sweet  Corn  is  eaten  as  a  vegetable  in  the  form  of  green  corn  (see  Lesson  4B) ;  for  cream 
soups   (see  Lesson  llB) ;   for  corn  souffle,  scalloped  corn,  corn  oysters,  etc.    (see  Lesson  6B). 

Popcorn  is  a  dwarf  variety  of  field  corn.  When  it  is  exposed  to  heat  it  swells  and  pops 
into  a  soft,  white  fluff"y  form.  This  is  a  delicious,  wholesome  food,  and  may  be  served  with 
cream  of  corn  soup. 

Corn  meal  is  used  in  making  Corn-cake  (Lesson  26B),  Muffins  (Lesson  25B),  Griddle 
cakes  (Lesson  24B),  Steamed  Bread  (Lesson  57B),  etc. 

White  flour  is  usually  added  to  corn  mixtures,  as  the  gluten  in  the  flour  helps  to  hold 
the  expanded  bubbles  in  place. 

It  is  difficult  to  make  a  good  light  corn-cake  without  adding  the  white  flour. 


Total  and  Digestible  Nutrients  and  Fuel  Value  of  Cereals  from  "Human  Foodi" 
By  Harry  Snyder,  B.  S. 


Total  Nutrients 

Digestible  Nutrients 

KIND  OF  FOOD 

Water 

Pro. 

Fat 

C. 

H. 

Ash 

Pro. 

Fat 

C.  H. 

Ash 

Fuel 

N.  F. 
Ext. 

Fiber 

Value 
per  lb. 

OAT  PREPARA- 
TIONS: 
Oats,  whole  grain 

% 

11  0 
7  .3 
8.2 

10.5 
10  1 
10.6 
8.1 
5.6 
10.9 

11.6 

11.1 

10.9 
11.5 

13.6 

10.9 
11.6 
12.5 
10.9 
4.3 
74.1 

12.3 
7.1 

6  8 
10  3 

% 

11.8 
10.1 
16.1 

11.9 
11.1 
10.2 
10.6 
12.2 
11.0 

10,6 

10.0 

12.4 
8.5 

6.4 

10.5 
8.4 
9.2 
8.6 

10.7 
2.3 

6.9 
6.2 
10.7 
13  4 

% 

5.0 

7.2 
7.4 

2.1 
1.7 
1.8 
1.4 
1.0 
1.4 

1.7 

1.4 

1.8 
1.1 

1.2 

5.4 
4.7 
1.9 
0.0 
5.0 
0.9 

0.3 
0.6 
8.8 
0.9 

% 

59.7 
66.6 
65.2 

71.9 

73.8 
74.1 
76.0 
77.6 
75.9 

72.5 

75.8 

69.8 
77.5 

77.5 

69.6 
74.0 
74.4 
79.2 
77.3 
22.2 

80.0 
85.7 
71.4 
74  4 

% 

9.5 
0.9 
1.3 

1.8 
1.7 
1.8 
2.1 
1.7 
0.4 

1.7 

2.7 
0  3 

0.4 

2.1 

1.0 
0.4 
1.4 

0.5 

% 

3.0 
1.9 
1.8 

1.8 
1.6 
1.5 
1.8 
1.9 
0.4 

1.9 

1.7 

2.4 
1.1 

0.9 

1.5 
1.3 
1.0 
0.3 
1.3 
0.5 

0.5 
0.4 
1.8 
1.3 

% 

% 

% 

% 

Calories 

Oatmeal,  raw 

Rolled,  steam  cooked 
WHEAT: 

Whole  grain 

12.5 
12.5 

6.5 
6.7 

65.5 
64.5 

1.4 
1.4 

1767 
1759 

Cracked  wheat 

Rolled,  steam  cooked 

Shredded  wheat 

Crumbed  and  malted 
Farina 

8.1 
8.5 
7.7 
9.1 
8.9 

1.5 
1.6 
1.3 
0.9 
1.3 

68.7 
70.7 
71.1 
73.7 
72.9 

1.2 
1.1 
1.4 
1.4 
0.3 

1501 
1541 
1521 
1628 
1609 

RYE: 

Whole  grain 

Flaked,  to  be  eaten 

7.8 

1.3 

71.1 

1.3 

1526 

BARLEY: 

Whole  grain 

Pearled  barley 

BUCKWHEAT: 

Flour 

6.6 
5.0 

1.0 
1.1 

73.0 
73.1 

0.8 
0.7 

1514 
1471 

CORN: 

Whole  grain 

Cornmeal,  unbolted. 
Corn  meal,  bolted. . . 

6.2 
6.8 
6.4 
7.9 
1.7 

5.8 
5.1 
9.1 
11.6 

4.2 
1.7 
0.6 
4.5 
.     0,8 

0  3 
0.5 
7.9 
0.8 

73.2 
74.6 
78.7 
77,8 
21.8 

78,4 
84  0 
70  5 
72  2 

1.0 
0.8 
0.2 
1.0 
0.4 

0.4 
0.3 
1.4 
1.0 

1728 
1662 
1671 
1882 
492 

1546 
1639 
1905 
1660 

Pop  corn,  popped . . . 
Hulled  corn 

RICE: 

Whole  rice,  polished . . 

Crackers 

Macaroni 

[Lesson  26B] 


CORN  CAKES 


[Page  65] 


CORN   CAKE 


Scant  lYz  tbsp.  baking  powder 
%  tsp.  salt 
1  c.  milk 


1  to  3  tbsp.  melted  butter 


%  c.  cornmeal 
1  e.  flour 
Yi  c.  sugar 

Mix  and  sift  dry  ingredients;  add  egg  well  beaten,  milk  and  the  melted  butter.    Beat 
Bake  in  a  shallow  buttered  pan  in  a  hot  oven  20  minutes  or  more. 


RICH   CORN  CAKE 


1  c.  corn  meal 
1  c.  white  flour 
14  tsp.  salt 

Mix  and  bake  according  to  first  recipe. 


%  c.  sugar 

4  tsp.  baking  powder 

2  eggs 


1  c.  milk 

Yi  c.  melted  butter 


SOUR  CREAM  CORN  CAKE 

%  c.  corn  meal  1  tbsp.  sugar  1  c.  sour  cream 

%  c.  flour  Y2  tsp.  salt  1  egg 

Y2  tsp.  soda 

Mix  and  sift  dry  ingredients;  add  well  beaten  egg  and  cream.    Bake  in  a  well  buttered 
pan  20  to  30  minutes. 


SOUR  MILK  CORN  CAKE 

1  c.  corn   meal  Ys  tsp.  salt 

1  c.  flour  1  tsp.  soda 

2  tbsp.  sugar  1  well  beaten  egg 

Combine  ingredients  and  bake  according  to  Becipe  1. 


IY2  c.  thick  sour  milk 
2  tbsp.  butter   (melted) 


VIRGINIA  PONE 

1  c.  white  corn  meal  IY2  tsp.  salt  2  c.  milk 

3  tsp.  baking  powder  1  c.  hot  boiled  hominy  2  eggs 

Add  butter  and  milk  to  hominy  and  cool. 

Mix  and  sift  dry  ingredients;  stir  into  the  hominy  and  add  the  beaten  eggs. 
Put  into  a  buttered  earthen  dish  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  45  minutea 
Cut  in  triangular  pieces  and  serve. 


[Page  66]  BASIC  PRINCIPLES  OF  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  [Lesson  27A] 

APPROXIMATE  MEASURE  OF  ONE  POUND 

4  cups  of  flour  2%  cups  powdered   sugar 

4  cups  entire  wheat  flour  3%  cups  confectioners'   sugar 

2%  cups  com  meal  2  cups  njilk 

2%  cups  oat  meal  2  cups  butter 

6  cups  rolled  oats  2  cups  finely    chopped    suet 

41/3  cups  rye  meal  2  cups  chopped  meat 

2  cups  rice  3  cups  raisins 

2  cups  granulated   sugar  4y3   cups  coffee 

2%  cups  brown  sugar  9  medium  sized  eggs 

If  tbsp.  be  substituted  for  cups  the  weight  will  be  about  one  ounce. 

TIME  TABLE  FOR  BAKING  BATTERS  AND  DOUGHS 

Muffins,  12  to  25  minutes  Raised  biscuit,  12  to  30  minutes 

Gingerbread,  25  to  45  minutes  Loaf  Cake,  40  to  60  minutes 

B.  P.  Biscuits,  12  to  15  minutes  White  bread,  45  to  60  minutes 

Cookies,  6  to  15  minutes  Rye  bread,  60  minutes 

Layer  Cake,  12  to  20  minutes  Beaten  bread,  45  to  60  minutes 

OVEN  TEMPERATURES 

Enter  at  Keep  at                                                           Enter  at  Keep  at 

Popovers    480°F  450°F  Cookies     480°F  450°F 

Ginger  bread    380°F  380°F  Puff  paste   480°F  450°F 

Baking  powder  biscuits.  .480°F  480°F  Bread    440°F  400°F 

Butter   cakes    3S0°F  3S0°F  Roast  meats 480°F  350°F 

Spongecakes    350°F  340°F  Fish    425°F  350°F 

The  above  temperatures  are  for  ovens  with  thermometers  placed  through  the  top.     An 
oven  door  thermostat  should  register  about  60°  less. 

NOTES: 


[Lesson  SYB] 


GINGERBREAD 


j;Page  67] 


1  c.  molasses 

Ya  c.  boiling  water 


HOT  WATER  GINGERBREAD 


%  tsp.  salt 

4  tbsp.  melted  butter 


2  to  2%   e.  flour 
1  tsp.  soda 
1%  tsp.  ginger 

Add  water  to  molasses.  Mix  and  sift  dry  ingredients.  Combine  mixtures.  Add  butter 
and  beat  vigorously.  Pour  into  a  greased  pan,  or  muflBn  tins,  and  bake  25  minutes  in  a 
moderate  oven.     One  well-beaten  egg  may  be  added  to  the  liquids. 


y2  tsp.  salt 

2  tbsp.  to  %  c.  melted  butter 


SOUR  MILK  GINGERBREAD 

1  tsp,  soda  %  c.  molasses 

y2  c.  sour  milk  2  c.  flour 

2  tsp.  ginger 

Mix  soda  with  sour  milk,  and  add  molasses.  Sift  remaining  dry  ingredients.  Combine 
mixtures.  Add  butter  and  beatvvigorously.  Pour  into  greased  pan,  and  bake  25  minutes  in  a 
moderate  oven. 


% 

V2 


c.  thick  sour  cream 
c.  molasses 


SOUR  CREAM  GINGERBREAD 


2  eggs  1  tsp.  ginger 

2  c.  flour  2  tsp.  cinnamon 

Y2  c.  granulated  sugar  %  tsp.  soda 

Beat  together  the  eggs,  sugar  and  molasses.  Add  half  the  cream.  Dissolve  the  soda  in 
the  remaining  half  and  add  to  the  liquids.  Mix  and  sift  the  dry  ingredients.  Combine  mix- 
tures and  beat  until  smooth.  Pour  into  a  greased  tin,  and  bake  30  minutes  in  a  moderate 
oven. 


FAIRY  GINGERBREAD 

%  e.  butter  %  c.  milk  2  tsp.  ginger 

1  e.  light  brown  sugar  1%  c.  bread  flour 

Cream  the  butter,  add  sugar  gradually  and  milk  very  slowly.  Mix  and  sift  the  flour  and 
ginger.  Combine  mixtures  and  mix  with  a  knife  until  smooth.  Spread  very  thinly  on  a 
buttered  inverted  pan  or  on  a  baking  sheet.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  Cut  in  squares 
before  removing  from  pan. 

NOTE. — ^Mixtures  containing  a  large  amount  of  molasses  or  sugar  burn  easily  and  should 
be  baked  in  a  moderate  oven. 


[Page  68]  BASIC  PRINCIPLES  OF  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  [Lesson  28A] 

CAKE 

Cake  may  be  divided  into  Two  Classes: 

Without   Butter. — Example:     Sponge   Cake,   Angels   Food,   Sunshine  Cake. 

With  Butter. — Example:   Cup  and  Pound  Cake. 

GENERAL  DIRECTIONS 

See  that  the  fire  is  right. 

Have  materials  and  utensils  ready,  including  a  plate  on  which  to  lay  sticky  spoons,  etc. 

Butter  the  pans;  buttered  paper  may  be  used  to  line,  the  pans  or  the  pans  may  be  but- 
tered and  then  sprinkled  with  flour. 

Measure   dry  ingredients,  then  liquid. 

Cream  the  butter  with  a  wooden  spoon  in  an  earthen  bowl  which  may  be  wanned 
slightly. 

Beat  the  yolks  with  a  Dover  egg-beater. 

Beat  the  whites  with  a  spider-web  or  a  Dover  egg-beater. 

Fill  pans  two-thirds  full  with  the  cake  mixture. 

Sponge  cake  requires  a  more  moderate  oven  than  cake  made  with  butter. 

Cake  is  done  when  it  shrinks  from  the  sides  of  the  pan,  or  when'  a  clean  broom  straw 
put  into  the  center  comes  out  clean,  or  when  pressed  lightly  with  tip  of  finger  the  cake 
springs  back  into  place. 

TESTS  FOR  TEMPERATURE  OF  OVEN 

If  a  piece  of  letter  paper  turns  a  deep  yellow  in  5  minutes,  the  oven  is  right  for  cake 
made  with  butter. 

The  same  test  may  be  used  for  sponge  cake,  the  paper  turning  a  light  yellow  in  5  minutes. 

The  time  may  be  divided  into  four  periods: 

1.  Rise  and  not  brown. 

2.  Continue  to  rise   and  brown  in  spots. 

3.  Light  brown. 

4.  Deeper  brown  and  shrink  from  sides  of  pan. 

TO  REMOVE  CAKES  FROM  PANS 

After  allowing  the  baked  cake  to  remain  in  the  pan  about  3  minutes,  invert  pans,  on  a 
board  covered  with  a  piece  of  old  linen. 

If  cake  sticks  to  the  pan,  place  a  damp  cloth  on  the  bottom  of  pan  for  a  few  minutes. 

NOTE — If  bread  flour  is  used  in  place  of  pastry  flour,  take  2  tbsp.  less  for  each  cup. 

Cover  baking  powder  can,  sugar  jar,  flour  bin,  etc.,  as  soon  as  you  have  measured  the 
necessary  quantities. 

NOTE 


[Lesson  28B] 


CAKES 


[Page  69] 


%  c.  soft  butter 
IVs  c.  brown  sugar 
2  eggs 
Yz  c.  milk 


QUICK  CAKE 

1%  c.  bread  flour  "j 

3  tsp.  baking  powder  ' 

%  tsp.  cinnamon  i 

14  tsp.  nutmeg  J 


mix  and  sift 

^2  lb.  dates  or  %  c.  raisins 


Put  ingredients  in  bowl  in  order  given  and  do  not  stir  until  all  have  been  added. 
Beat  for  three  minutes.  Bake  in  a  buttered  or  greased  pan  from  35  to  45  minutes.  May  be 
baked  in  muffin  tins. 

CREAM  CAKES 

2  eggs  1%  c.  flour  ^  tsp.  mace 

1  c.  sugar  '  %  tsp.  salt  %  tsp.  ginger 

%  c.  cream  %  tsp.  cinnamon  2^2  tsp.  baking  powder 

Drop  unbeaten  contents  of  eggs  into  a  bowl,  add  the  sugar  and  cream,  beat  vigor- 
ously* Mix  and  sift  remaining  dry  ingredients,  add  to  the  first  mixture,  beat  until  well 
mixed.     Bake  in  a  shallow  pan  or  in  small  muffin  tins. 

NUT  LOAF  CAKE 

%  c.  butter  1%   c.  flour  1  c.  nut  meat 

1  c.  sugar  3  tsp.  baking  powder  i/^   tsp.  vanilla 

Yz  c.  milk  3  egg  whites   (large) 

Cream  the  butter;  add  sugar  gradually,  stirring  until  creamy  between  each  addition. 
Mix  and  sift  the  flour  and  baking  powder,  add  half  of  it  and  the  milk,  stir  until  thoroly 
blended;  add  the  remaining  flour,  nut  meat  and  vanilla,  beat  until  thoroly  mixed.  Fold  in 
the  stifiiy  beaten  whites.     Bake  in  a  buttered  loaf  tin  for  about  40  minutes. 


2  squares  chocolate  (melted) 
and  mixed  with  %  c-  boil- 
ing water 


CHOCOLATE    LOAF    CAKE 

1/2  c.  butter  1  tsp.  vanilla 

1%  c.  sugar  2  c.  flour 

4  eggs  4  tsp.  baking  powder 

V2  c.  milk  14  tsp.  salt 

Cream  the  butter,  add  the  sugar  gradually,  add  well  beaten  eggs,  measure,  mix  and 
sift  the  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt,  add  %  of  it  and  the  milk,  beat  until  thoroly  mixed. 
Add  the  remaining  flour,  chocolate  mixture,  and  vanilla.  Beat  thoroly  until  well  mixed. 
Bake  in  a  buttered  and  paper  lined  large  loaf  tin  about  45  minutes  or  until  thoroly  baked, 


[Page  70]  BASIC  PRINCIPLES  OF  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  [Lesson  29Aj 

COMPARATIVE  COST  OF  FOODS  USED  IN  BATTERS  AND  DOUGHS 

BOUGHT  IN  SMALL  AND  LARGE  QUANTITIES 

Article  Price  for  small  quantity  Price  for  large  quantity 

Bread  flour    05c.  per   lb 85c.  per  24%  lb.  sack 

Pastry   flour    09c.  per   lb 25c.  per  3  lb.  pkg. 

Whole  wheat  flour 04c.  per  lb 35c.  per  10  lb.  sack 

Graham   flour    04c.  per   lb 35c.  per  10  lb.  sack 

Corn  meal   15c.  per  3   lb.  sack 35c.  per  10  lb.  sack         \ 

Oat  meal    02c.  per  lb.   in   bulk 10c.  per  1^^  lb.  pkg. 

Rice     05c.  to  12c.  per  lb 

Cornstarch     08e.  to  10c.  per  lb.  pkg 

Soda    05c.  per  %  lb.  pkg 10c.  per  lb. 

Baking  powder 15c.  to  25c.  per   %   lb 25c.  to  40c.  per  lb. 

Salt 05c.  per  3  lb.  sack 

Sugar    06c.  per    lb $1.40  per  25  lbs. 

Brown  sugar   06c.  per    lb $1.40  per  25  lbs. 

Powdered  sugar    10c.  per   lb.. 25c.  per  3  lbs. 

Loaf  sugar 10c.  per   lb 25c.  per  3  lbs. 

Butter     20c.  to  38c.  per  lb. 

Lard    10c.  to  18c.  per  lb. 

Cottolene    30e.  per  3  lbs. 

Butterine     14c.  to  25c.  per  lb. 

Oleomargarine     14c.  to  25c.  per  lb. 

Eggs 16c.  to  40c.  per  doz. 

Milk 06c.  to   8c.   per   qt. 

Coffee  cream   20c.  per  qt. 

Whipping  cream 40c.  per  qt. 

Cloves,  ground  or  whole 40c.  per  lb. 

Ginger     40c.  per  lb. 

Cinnamon,  grd.  or  whole 40c.  per  lb. 

Vanilla     35c.  per  2  oz 65c.  per  4  oz. 

Molasses 25c.  per  qt. 

NOTES: 


[Lesson  29B] 


BAKING  POWDER  BISCUIT  MIXTUKES 


[Page  71] 


BAKING  POWDER  BISCUITS 


2  c.  flour 

4  tsp.  baking  powder 


%  tsp.  salt 
1  to  2  tbsp. 


shortening 


About  %  c.  milk 


Mix  and  sift  dry  ingredients.  Rub  in  shortening  with  tips  of  fingers,  or  chop  in  with  a, 
knife.  Add  milk  gradually  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Use  a  knife  in  mixing.  Toss  on  a  well- 
floured  board.  Pat  and  roll  out  to  one  inch  thickness.  Cut  with  a  biscuit  cutter  dipped 
in  flour.     Place  close  together  on  a  greased  pan.     Bake  in  a  hot  oven  for  10  to  15  minutes. 

DUMPLINGS  FOR  STEWS 

Follow  the  directions  for  biscuits,  using  only  2  tsp.  shortening.  Place  the  dough  by 
spoonfuls  on  the  top  of  a  boiling  stew.  Cover  and  boil  12  minutes  without  removing  the 
cover. 

QUICK  BISCUITS 

Add  to  the  ingredients  for  biscuits  enough  more  milk  to  make  a  thick  batter  (about 
2  tbsp.) ;  drop  by  spoonfuls  onto  a  well  greased  pan,  half  an  inch  apart.  The  mixture 
should  not  be  soft  enough  to  spread.    Bake  in  a  hot  oven. 

TEA  CAKES 

Add  to  the  dry  ingredients  for  biscuits  4  tbsp.  of  sugar.  Mix  and  beat.  Bake  in 
greased  muffin  tins  25  to  30  minutes.    One  egg  may  be  added,  using  2  tbsp.  less  milk. 

BLUEBERRY  CAKES 
Make  as  directed  for  tea  cakes,  adding  1  c.  of  blueberries  to  the  dry  ingredients. 


2  c.  flour 

2  tbsp.  sugar 

4  tsp.  baking  powder 


PIN  WHEEL  BISCUIT 

%  tsp.  salt 
2  tbsp.   butter 
%  c.  milk 


14  c.  stoned  raisins,  finely  chopped 
2  tbsp.  citron,  finely  chopped 
V2  tsp.  cinnamon 

Mix  as  baking  powder  biscuit  mixture.  Roll  to  %-inch  thickness,  brush  with  melted 
butter  and  sprinkle  with  fruit,  sugar  and  cinnamon.  Roll  like  jelly  roll;  cut  off  pieces 
%  inch  thick.     Place  pieces  on  a  buttered  tin  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  about  15  minutes. 


[Page  72]  BASIC  TRINCirLES  OF  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  [Lesson  30A] 

YEAST 

YEAST  is  a  small  microscopic  plant,  which  grows  by  budding. 

Yeast  grows  in  sprouting  grains,  finding  in  them  favorable  soil  for  growth. 

The   yeast  plants   are  obtained  from  distilleries    (explain). 

Three  kinds  of  yeast  are  used  in  bread- making:    Liquid,  Dry  and  Conipressed. 

Compressed  yeast  is  probably  the  most  frequently  used. 

In  Compressed  yeast  the  plants  are  mixed  with  potato  starch  and  are  pressed  into  cakes. 
These  are  cut  into  smaller  cakes  and  are  wrapped  in  tin  foil  to  keep  them  moist  and  clean. 

Food,  air,  heat  and  moisture  are  necessary  for  the  growth  of  the  yeast  plant.  Oxygen, 
some  nitrogenous  matter,  salts  or  mineral  matter  and  carbohydrates,  especially  sugary  sub- 
stances, are  needed  for  its  growth.  The  most  favorable  temperature  is  between  70  deg.  and 
90  deg.  F.     Cold  checks  the  growth,  while  heat  (130  deg.  F.  or  more)  will  kill  the  plant. 

EXPERIMENTS 

Mix  2  tbsp.  flour,  ly^  tbsp.  sugar  and  1  yeast  cake  which  has  been  mixed  with  ^  c. 
cold  water.     Pour  this  into  three  tumblers.  A,  B,  and  C. 

No.  I.        To  A  add  %  c.  boiling  water.     Let  stand  15  minutes. .   Note  results. 

No.  II.       To  B  add  I/2  c.  luke  warm  water.  Let   stand   15   minutes   in  a  warm   place. 
Note  results. 

No.  III.  To  C  add  %  c.  cold  water.  Let  stand  15  minutes  in  a  cold  place  (32  deg.  F.). 
Note  results. 

No.  IV.      Put  C  aside  and  let  stand  in  a  warm  place  one  hour.  ""Note  results. 

When  yeast  is  mixed  with  flour  and  a  lukewarm  liquid  and  kept  in  a  warm  place  the 
action  of  the  yeast  changes  the  starch  of  the  flour  into  sugar  and  then  into  alcohol  and 
carbon  dioxide.     This  process  is  known  as  FEPvMENTATION. 

The  production  of  this  carbon  dioxide  and  alcohol  is  gradual,  and  as  it  forms,  the  dough 
is  filled  with  bubbles  (rises),  and  the  elastic  gluten  of  the  flour  gives  to  the  dough  its  power 
to  stretch  and  rise,  as  the  gas  expands,  making  the  dough  light  and  porous. 

If  fermentation  is  allowed  to  continue  long,  or  at  too  high  a  temperature,  so  much  alcohol 
is  formed  that  the  yeast  stops  growing  and  bacteria  begin  to  grow;  the  alcohol  unites  with 
oxygen  plus  bacteria  and  the  dough  becomes  sour. 

^Vhen  bread  is  baked  the  yeast  plants  are  killed,  the  alcohol  and  carbon  dioxide  are 
driven  off,  the  starch  is  cooked  and  a  delicious  flavor  is  developed. 

NOTES: 


[Lesson  30B] 


SHORT-CAKE  MIXTURES 


[Page  73] 


SHORT  CAKE  NO.  1 

2  c.  flour  2  tbsp.  sugar  ^  c.  shortening 

4  tap.  B.  P.  %  tsp.  salt  About  %  c.  milk 

Mix  as  B.  P.  biscuit  dough  (in  Lesson  29B).  Divide  the  dough  into  two  equal  parts. 
Shape  one  to  fit  a  shallow  buttered  tin.  Brush  the  top  of  the  dough  with  melted  butter, 
shape  and  place  the  second  portion  of  dough  over  the  first.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven  20  minutes. 
Split.  Put  crushed  and  sweetened  fruit  on  one  half.  Place  the  other  half  over  it.  More  fruit 
may  be  placed  on  top.  Strawberries,  peaches,  or  stewed  fruit  may  be  used.  Serve  with 
whipped  cream,  if  liked. 


2  c.  flour 
4  tsp.  B.  P. 


SHORT   CAKE   NO.   2 

%  tsp.  salt 
14  c.  sugar 
14  c.  butter 


About  Vs  c.  milk 


Mix  same  as  Short  Cake  No.  1,  adding  the  well  beaten  egg  to  the  milk. 

( 

APPLE    JOHN 

Put  stewed  apple  or  other  fruit  sweetened  and  seasoned  into  a  buttered  pudding  dish* 

Cover  the  fruit  with   a   short   cake   dough   mixture   and  bake   in   a  hot  oven   20   to   30 
minutes. 

Invert  onto  the  serving  dish,  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  cinnamon.     Serve. 


FRUIT   DUMPLINGS 

Make  a  dough  according  to  Short  Cake  Recipe  No.  1  or  2,  using  a  little  less  milk.  Pat 
and  roll  it  i/i  in.  thick.  Cut  into  squares  large  enough  to  cover  an  apple  or  other  fruit, 
which  should  have  been  steamed  ten  minutes  if  canned  fruit  is  not  used.  Place  fruit  in  the 
middle  of  the  square  piece  of  dough,  sprinkle  with  sugar,  cinnamon  or  nutmeg.  Moisten  the 
ed^^cs  of  the  dough  with  cold  water,  and  fold  so  that  the  corners  will  meet  in  the  center. 
Press  edges  together  gently.  Place  on  a  greased  pan  and  bake  in  a  rather  hot  oven  until  ilie 
crust  and  fruit  are  cooked.     These  may  be  steamed.     Serve  with  lemon  sauce   (Lesson  9B). 


[Page  74]  BASIC  PRINCIPLES  OF  DOMESTIC  SCTENCE  [Lesson  31A] 

GENERAL  DIRECTIONS  FOR  MAKHfTG  BREAD 

THAT  REQUIRES  NO  KNEADING 

The  liquids  used  may  be  water,  potato-water,  milk,  or  milk  and  water. 

Milk  makes  a  more  tender  loaf  of  bread  than  water. 

Yeast  acts  more  quickly  if  a  little  sugar  or  glucose  is  added  at  first. 

Salt  and  fats  hinder  the  growth   of  yeast. 

The  water   should  be  boiled.     The  milk   should   be  scalded. 

The  hot  liquids  should  be  added  to  the  salt,  sweetening  and  shortening.  This  should  be 
cooled  before  the  yeast  mixture  is   added. 

One-quarter  yeast  cake  is  usually  allowed  to  1  pt.  liquid  if  mixture  is  to  rise  over  night. 

One-half  yeast  cake  is  usually  allowed  to  1  pt.  liquid  if  mixture  is  set  in  the  morning. 

One  yeast  cake  is  usually  allowed  to  1  pt.  liquid  if  mixture  is  set  in  the  morning  and 
a  quick  process  is   required. 

The  mixture  should  be  beaten  thoroly  to  mix  the  ingredients  and  to  enclose  air. 

The  mixture  should  be  covered  to  prevent  a  crust  from  forming.  It  should  be  put  into  a 
warm  place,  about  70  deg.,  until  enough  gas  is  formed  to  make  it  rise  to  double  its  bulk. 
It  should  be  beaten  the  second  time  to  distribute  the  gas  bubbles  evenly,  and  to  make  a 
fine-grained  loaf.     Well  greased  pans  should  be  half  filled  with  the  mixture. 

The  mixture  should  rise  in  the  pan  until  double  its  bulk  and  no  more,  and  then  be  baked 
in  a  hot  oven  45  minutes,  or  until  brown  on  all  sides,  and  until  a  hollow  sound  can  be  pro- 
duced when  the  loaf  is  tapped  with  the  finger.  In  baking  a  temperature  of  400  to  450  deg. 
is  required. 

When  baked,  loaves  should  be  placed  so  that  air  can  circulate  freely  around  them  until 
cooled.    They  should  be  put  away  unwrapped  in  a  tin  box  or  stone  jar. 

NOTES: 


[Lesson  31B]  BKEAD  MAKING  [Page  75] 


WHOLE  WHEAT  BREAD  NO  1 

2  c.  boilinj  water,  or  i^   yeast  cake,  mixed  witli,' 

1  c.  scalded  milk  and  1  c.  boiling  water  2  tbsp.  lukewarm  water  (over  night)  or 

2  tbsp.  butter  1  yeast  cake  mixed  with  %  c.  lukewarm 

1  tsp.  salt  water  if  mixed  in  the  morning. 

^4  c.  sugar,  or  1%  c.  white  flour 

%  c.  molasses  3%  c.  whole  wheat  flour 

Add  salt,  butter  and  sweetening  to  the  hot  liquid;  cool,  and  when  lukewarm  add  the  yeast 
cake  mixture  and  flour.  Beat  well,  cover  and  let  rise  to  double  its  bulk.  Again,  beat  vigor- 
ously; half  flll  "greased  bread  pans  with  the  mixture.  Let  rise  until  double  its  bulk.  Bake 
in  a  hot  oven  45  minutes.     This  mixture  may  be  baked  in  gem  pans. 

WHOLE  WHEAT  BREAD  NO.  2 

.■'-  c.  scalded  milk  1  yeast  cake  mixed  with 

Vi  c.  sugar  or  Va  c.  molasses  %   c.  lukewarm   water 

1  tsp.  salt  4%  c,  coarse  whole  wheat  flour 

Follow  directions  for  Whole  Wheat  Bread  No.  1. 

GRAHAM  BREAD 

2%   c.  hot  liquid   (milk,  water  or  i/4    yeast   cake   mixed  with    ^   c.   luke- 

water  and  milk)  warm    liquid 

Ys  c.  molasses  3  c.  flour 

1%  tsp.  salt  3  e.  graham  flour 

Follow  directions  for  Whole  Wheat  Flour. 

ROLLED  OATS  BREAD 

2c.  boiling  water  %  yeast  cake  mixed  with 

%  c.  molasses  %   c.  lukewarm  water 

%  tbsp.  salt  1  c.  rolled  oats 

1  tbsp.  butter  4^^  c.  flour 

Add  boiling  water  to  oats  and  let  stand  1  hour.  Add  molasses,  salt,  butter,  yeaat 
cake  mixture  and  flour.  Let  rise  to  double  its  bulk,  beat  thoroly,  turn  into  buttered  bread 
pans;   let  rise  again  and  bake   45  minutes. 

YEAST  MUFFINS 
1  c.  scalded  milk  ^  yeast  cake  mixed  with  %  cup  luke- 

1  c.  boiling  water  warm  water 

2  tbsp.  butter  1  egg,  beaten 
1  tsp.  salt                                                                     4  c.  flour 

%  c.  sugar 

Add  salt,  butter  and  sugar  to  the  hot  liquid.  ^'^Hien  lukewarm,  add  the  yeast  mixture. 
Add  the  beaten  egg  and  the  flour.  Beat  thoroly.  Cover  and  let  rise  over  night  (if  Vi  yeast 
cake  is  used)  or  until  double  its  bulk.  Again  beat  and  half  fill  mufiin  pans.  Let  rise  again 
until  pans  are  full.     Bake  in  a  hot  oven  20  to  30  minutes. 


[Page  76]  BASIC  PRINCIPLES  OF  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  [Lesson  32A] 

SANDWICHES 

GENERAL  DIRECTIONS 

Formerly  a  sandwich  meant  two  slices  of  bread  with  meat  between.  Now  the  term 
sandwich  is  applied  to  many  different  kinds  of  encased  dainties.  . 

The  Bread  used  for  making  Sandwiches  should  be  at  least  a  day  old,  that  it  may  be 
cut  properly.  The  bread  may  be  white  or  bi'own;  ex.,  white,  whole  wheat,  rye,  oatmeul 
or  steamed  brown  bread. 

The  butter  should  be  creamed,  so  that  it  may  be  spread  easily.  Cream  the  butter  with 
a  wooden  spoon. 

A  very  sharp  knife  should  be  used,  so  that  the  slices  may  be  cut  as  thinly  and  evenly 
as  possible. 

Cut  end  slice  from  bread.  Spread  end  of  loaf  with  butter.  Cut  slice.  Repeat,  until  the 
required  number  of  slices  have  been  cut. 

Spread  half  the  number  of  slices  with  the  mixture  used  for  filling;  cover  with  the 
remaining  slices  and  cut  in  squares,  oblongs,  triangles,  etc. 

If  fancy  cutters  are  used,  shape  before  spreading,  that  no  butter  may  be  wasted. 

If  the  sandwiches  are  prepared  several  hours  before  they  are  served,  they  may  be  kept 
fresh  and  moist  by  wrapping  them  in  a  dampened  napkin,  and  leaving  them  in  a  cool  place. 
Paraffin  paper  is  often  used  for  the  same  purpose. 

Chopped  eggs,  chicken,  veal,  celery,  olives  or  nuts  mixed  with  salad  dressing,  make  very 
good  filling  for  sandwiches. 

Salted  meats  make  good  filling  for  sandwiches. 

The  meat  may  be  sliced,  when  it  should  be  cut  across  the  grain  and  in  as  thin  slices 
as  possible. 

The  meat  may  be  chopped.  The  addition  of  a  little  mustard,  Worcestershire  or  horse- 
radish sauce  is  good  with  beef  or  tongue.  Capers,  catsup,  mint  or  tomato  sauce  is  good 
with  Iamb. 

Chopped  peppers,  celery  salt,  or  finely  chopped  celery  is  good  with  chicken  or  veal. 

Lemon  juice,  onion  juice  or  chopped  parsley  is  good  with  fish. 

Cress,  cabbage,  cucumbers,  pimentoes  or  olives  may  be  chopped  and  added  to  a  salad 
dressing  alone  or  with  meat  for  filling. 

Uncooked  fruit  fillings  may  be  used.  Dates  or  figs  with  nuts  make  very  good  sand- 
wich filling. 

Garnish  the  serving  dish  with  parsley,  lemon,  celery  tips,  water  cress,  nasturtium  leaves 
and  blossoms,  etc. 

Coffee  is  the  most  desirable  beverage  to  serve  with  sandwiches,  then  tea,  and  lastly 
cocoa,  or  chocolate,  which  should  only  be  served  with  the  dainty  sweet  sandwiches. 


SANDWICHES 


[Lesson  32B]  SANDWICHES  [Page  77] 


SANDWICHES 


LETTUCE  SANDWICHES 

Put  fresh,  clean,  crisp  lettuce  leaves  between  buttered  slices  of  graham,  brown  or  white 
bread,  having  a  tsp.  of  Mayonnaise  on  each  leaf. 

CREAM  CHEESE  SANDWICHES 

Spread  buttered  brown  or  graham  bread  with  cream  cheese,  which  has  been  mixed  with 
butter  or  cream  and  chopped  olives,  pimentoes  or  nuts,  and  put  a  lettuce  leaf  that  has  been 
dipped  in  French  Dressing  between  the  slices. 

FRUIT  SANDWICHES 

Remove  stems  and  finely  chop  figs;  add  a  small  quantity  of  water,  cook  in  a  double  boiler 
until  a  paste  is  formed,  then  add  a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice.  Cool  mixture  and  spread  on 
thin  slices  of  buttered  bread.  Sprinkle  with  chopped  peanuts,  walnuts  or  pecans,  and  cover 
with  slices  of  buttered  bread. 

Dates  and  nuts  chopped  fine  and  mixed  may  be  used. 

HAM  AND  EGG  SANDWICHES 

Finely  chop  the  ham  and  hard  cooked  eggs,  mix  with  a  salad  dressing  and  put  between 
buttered   slices   of   bread. 

EGG  SANDWICHES 

Chop  hard  cooked  eggs.  Mix  them  with  salad  dressing  and  spread  between  buttered 
slices  of  bread.  ^ 

SLICED  MEAT  SANDWICHES 

Put  thin  slices  of  meat,  which  have  been  cut  across  the  grain,  into  slices  of  butteried 
bread;  arrange  thin  slices  of  pickles,  olives,  red  or  green  pepper  on  the  meat,  cover  with  a 
slice  of  buttered  bread. 

SALMON  SANDWICHES 

Put  flaked  salmon,  mixed  with  finely  chopped  pickles  and  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper, 
between  slices  of  buttered  bread.    Mayonnaise  dressing  may  be  added  to  the  filling. 


[Page  78]  BASIC  PRlNCtPLES  OF  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  [Lesson  33Aj 

TEST  QUESTIONS 


[Lesson  33B] 


PRACTICE  TEST 


[Page  79] 


.r  ^-- 


BREAKFAST 

Menu  I 

Baked  Apple 

Corn  Meal  Mush  Sugar  and  Cream 

Creamed  Chipped  Beef  on  Toast 

Whole  Wheat  Bread  and  Butter 

Cocoa 


Menu  II 


Cooked  Cereal  with  Dates 
Ham  Omelet  with  Green  Pepper  Rings 

White  Muffins 
Cocoa 


Creamed  Potatoes 


COST  OF  PREPARING  ABOVE  BREAKFAST  FOR  SIX  PERSONS 
Material  Quantity  Cost 


[Page  80] 


BASIC  PRINCIPLES  0^  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE 


mDIVIDUAL  RECIPES— SEMESTER  II 


LESSON   19B 

POTATO  RECIPES 

%  potato 

Boil,  rice  and  mash 

1  potato 

Bake  and  prepare   puflfs 


To   1  potato  use — 

1  tsp.  butter 

2  tsp.  hot  milk 
Ye  tsp.  salt 

Few  grains  pepper 


LESSON  20B 

OATMEAL  MUSH 

%  c.  oatmeal 

y2  c.  boiling  water 

^4  tsp.  salt 


COOKED  APPLE 

1  apple 

Vz  c.  boiling  water 

2  tbsp.  sugar 


WHEATENA  WITH  DATES 

3  tbsp.  Wheatena 

1  tbsp.  cold  water 

%  c.  boiling  water  (plus) 
%  tsp.  salt 

2  dates,  cut  in  pieces 


LESSON  21B 

RICE  PUDDING 

4  tbsp.  steamed  rice 
^4  yolk,  1/4  beaten  white 
1  tbsp.  milk 
1  tbsp.  sugar 
14  apple,  or  1/3  slice  pine- 
apple, or  4  raisins 


FLOATING    ISLAND 

Follow  recipe  for  Custard 
Sauce. 
(Lesson  14B) 


LESSON  22B 


PINOCHE 

1  c,  brown  sugar 

(packed) 
1/4   c.   milk 
1  tbsp.  butter 
8  walnuts 
Few  drops  vanilla 

SEA  FOAM 

1  c.  sugar 
%  c.  boiling  water 
14  C  corn  syrup 
Ys  c.  nut  meats 
1  white  of  egg 
14  tsp.  vanilla 

CHOCOLATE  FUDGE 

1  c.  sugar 
1/3  c.  milk 
1   tsp.   butter 
%  sq.  chocolate 
1/4  tsp.  vanilla 

PEANUT  CANDY 

1  c.  sugar 
1%  c.  peanuts 
Few  grs.  salt 


LESSON  23B 

MACARONI  WITH  CHEESE 

2  sticks  macaroni 
2  c.  boiling  water 
%  tsp.  salt 

1  or  2  tsp.  grated  cheese 
Sauce  to  moisten 

2  tbsp.  crumbs 


LESSON  24B 

WHOLE  WHEAT  GRIDDLE 
CAKES 

1  tbsp.  entire  wheat  floui 

2  tbsp.  flour 
1/2  tsp.  B.  P. 
Few  grs.  salt 

1  tsp.  sugar 

%  tbsp.  beaten  egg 

2  tbsp.  milk 

%  tsp.  melted  butter 

BREAD  GRIDDLE  CAKES 

3  tbsp.     STALE  crumbs 
3  tbsp.  scalded  milk 

1  tsp.  butter 
1/0  tsp.  B.  P. 
1  tbsp.  beaten  egg 
1  tbsp.  flour 
1  /16  tsp.  salt 


SEMESTER  H 


[Page  8i] 


LESSON  25B 

PLAIN  MUFFINS 

%  c.  flour 
Yz  tbsp.  sugar 
i  tsp.  B.  P. 
%  tsp.  salt 

1  tbsp.  beaten  egg 
4  tbsp.  milk 

2  tsp.  melted  butter 


GRAHAM  MUFFINS 

6  tbsp.  graham  flour 
2  tbsp.  flour 
1  tbsp.  sugar 
1  tsp.  B.  P. 
Vi  tsp.  salt 

1  tbsp.  beaten  egg 
4  tbsp.  milk 

2  tsp.  melted    butter 


LESSON  26B 
CORN  CAKE 

3  tbsp.  corn  meal 

4  tbsp.  flour 
1  tbsp.  sugar 
1  tsp.  B.  P. 
Ys  tsp.  salt 

4  tbsp.  milk 

1  tbsp.  egg 

2  tsp.  melted  butter 


LESSON  27B 


LESSON  SOB 


HOT  WATER  GINGERBREADshORT  CAKE  NO.  2 


2  tbsp.  molasses 

1  tbsp.  boiling  water 

4%   tbsp.   flour 

Ys  tsp.  soda 

Ye  tsp.  ginger 

^  tsp.  salt 

1  tsp.  butter 

1  tsp.  beaten  egg 


LESSON   28B 

QUICK  CAKE 

1  tbsp.  butter 

2%  tbsp.  brown  sugar 

1  tbsp.  beaten  egg 

1  tbsp.  milk 

31/2   tbsp.  flour    (bread) 
1/3  tsp.  B.  P. 
Few  grs.  cinnamon 
Few  grs.  nutmeg 

2  dates  cut  in  pieces 


LESSON  29B 

B.  P.  BISCUITS 

Yz  c.  flour 

%  tsp.  B.  P. 

%  tsp.  salt 

1  tsp.  butter 

2%  tbsp.  milk  (about) 

Demonstrate   Pin   Wheel 
Biscuits 


Ya  c.  flour 
%  tsp.  B.  P. 
2  tsp.  sugar 
1-2  tsp.  salt 
2  tsp.  butter 
2  tsp.  egg 
About  2  tbsp. 


milk 


Enough  for  1  layer 


LESSON  31 B 

BEATEN  BREAD 

2  tbsp.  milk 
2  tbsp.  water 

1  tsp.  butter 
Ye  tsp.  salt 

2  tsp.   (level)  molasses 

3  tbsp.  flour 

%  c.  whole  wheat  flour 

1  yeast   cake   mixed   with 

2  tbsp.  of  the  liquid  given 

above. 


LESSON  32B 

SANDWICHES 
1  slice  bread 
Cut  in  fancy  shapes 
1  tbsp.  filling 
1  tsp.  butter 
Three  or  four  kinds  of 
filling 


NOTES! 


[Page  82]  BASIC  PRINCIPLES  OF  DOMESTIC  SaENCE 

EXTRA  RECIPES 
NUT  BREAD 

^  tsp.  salt 

%  c.  sugar 

2  eggs 

2  c.  milk 

4  c.  flour 

21/2  tsp.  B.  P. 

■  1%  c.  nuts  and  dates 

Mix  ingredients;  beat  all  thorolj\     Pour  into  greased  bread  pan;  let  stand  45  minutes; 
bake  45  minutes  in  a  hot  oven. 


NOTES:  [Page  83] 


jTage  84]  BASIC  PRINCiPLES  OF  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE 


NOTES:  [Page  85] 


[Page  86]  BASIC  PRINCIPLES   OF  DOMESTIC   SCIENCE 


NOTES:  [Page  87] 


\"'~-, 


/..  j;5  «,j!v»  ■ 


[Page  88]  BASIC  PRINCIPLES  OF  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE 


NOTES:  [Page  88] 


[Page  90]  BASIC  PRINCIPLES  OF  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE 


NOTES:  [Page  91] 


[Page  92]  BASIC  PRINCTPLES  OF  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE 


HOTES:  [Page  93) 


[Page  94]  BASIC  PRINaPLES  OF  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE 


WOTES:  (pa^  ^l 


[Page  96]  BASIU  PRINCIPLES  OP  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE 


3  i^  =E 


<u  -3 


h 

m 

H 

n 

tS 

« 

Cfl 

:0 

Q 

7J 

^ 

as 

V 

:0 

•ni 

a 

H 

H 

y 

tS 

'^ 

3 

< 

^ 

r, 

<U 

w 

T3 

H 

« 

u 

W 

s 

^ 

(U 

j-i 

n1 

W 

-^ 

W 

:M 

Q 

^ 

c« 

<! 

■Jn 

> 

u< 

<*H 

O 

H 

;:4 
< 

3 

1 

w 

Xi 

H 

< 

Q 
-1 

■a 

n 

C 

o 

c 

a 

k; 

^ 

a 

< 

<u 

Hi 

S 

:« 

•o 

< 

in 

laj 

t- 

oj 

.^_, 

m 

.y 

T3 

«*-H 

C 

^ 

~    :0 

a 

D 

p 

E 
h 

< 

o 
&< 

&. 

C/3 

OS 

p 

w 

Q 
Z 

<: 
»j 
>< 

w 

O 
> 
H 
OS 

<: 
fc 
en 

O 

<: 
« 

Z 

< 

Oh 
< 


o 

I-' 
'^    > 

o    rl 
a   OS 

>•! 


a  '3 


6i    ^ 


G   2 
:«     S 


li 


c 
-c   2 


O     ■" 

>^    g! 


§ 

•f, 

rt 

t> 

> 

o 

C 

n 

0) 

ffl 

o 

W 

•a 

E  ■^„ 


r. 

u 

(U 

■■< 

1- 

<A 

^" 

^ 

O 

- 

< 

« 

< 

w 

13 

C:^ 

rt 

a> 

o 

>< 

.2? 

'^ 

ai 

-iS 

'< 

C 

c 

>, 

<u 

o 

^3 

■^ 

c 

i 

ra 

0! 

□ 

rt 

z 

> 

u 

u 

E  S 


c  2 


s  s 


E 

fci 

(U 

^ 

(U 

01 

i^""'-^. 


NIKOLAUS  II  :s  EUROPEISKA  OCH  ASIATISKA  UNDERSAtAR 

Ofvanstiende  karta  ger  en  id^  om  Czarrns  ofantliga  besittningar.  De  olika  folkraserna,  ibland  kal- 
lade  den  "lille  faderns  barn,"  inbegripa  judar,  polacker  och  finnar  soin  protestera  emot  denna  benam- 
ning,  samt  asiatiska  halfvildar.  (124) 


DEN  RYSKA  JARNVAGEN  OFVER  EN  FRUSEN  FLOD 

Jarnvagen  var  ofta  Rysslands  "hogra  hand"  vid  forslandet  af  arm^erna  till  den  aflagsna  Ostern.  Spir- 
Vidden  ar  smal  och  tvarbjalkarna  mycket  linga,  pS  det  att  tyngden  mi  bli  battre  fordelad  och  for  att  for- 
hindia,  sa  l^ngt  som  mojligt,  faran  af  remnor  i  isen,  (iic) 


IIXPBIN 


4/  / 


^ 


#% 
^ 


-,(N  Vl^  V  !   -tj 


•-^'*-^-<P^V*^'"«'^^'^' 


:',^^f,/z..^[}¥5i5'4 


-•a  p*.(.w/«kV«  'PnajvcTcn 


DE  JAPANSKA  FLANKRORELSERNA  MOT  MUKDEN 

Kriget  borjade  med  anfall  af  flottorna  pa  Port  Arthur  och  Vladivostok.  Landoperationerna  betackte 
ett  sidant  vidstrackt  omrade,  att  flera  veckor  forfloto  innan  den  japanska  kampanjens  allmanna  plan 
bann  utvecklas.    Det  fbrnamsta  draget  i  denna  plan  var  flankrbrelserna,  som  belysas  af  denna  karta. 

(los) 


MISSTANKTA  FOR  ATT  SOKA  FORDARFVA  JARNVAGSLINJEN 

Fullt  en  tredjedel  af  de  ryska  trupperna  aro  pa  ett  eller  annat  satt  sysselsatta  med  att  vakta  den 
Trans-sibiriska  jarnvagen,  sarskildt  i  Manschuriet.  Japaner,  forkladda  till  kinesiska  arbetare,  arreste- 
rades  for  att  de  sokte  fordarfva  jarnvagen  och  det  var  ett  angsligt  bgonbliik,  da  de  framfordes  for  att 
undersokas  af  officeren  for  den  kossackiska  jarnvagspatrullen.  -    (120) 


JAPANER  OFVANDE  SIG  MED  EN  SNABBSKJUTANDE  KANON 

Pk  sin  svindlande  fard  att  ofverraska  fieaden  var  det  sarskildt  onskvardt  att  japanerna  skulle  ofva 
sig  i  att  handtera  snabbskjutande  kanoner.  A  denna  plansch  se  vj  dem  under  en  af  sina  iringa  ofningar 
ombord  i  ett  krigsfartyg.  (137) 


ETT  PLIKTENS  OFFER 

Marschen  till  den  koreanska  gransen  midt  i  vintern  iitfoljdes  af  svara  lidanden  for  ryssarna.  Utpo- 
sterna  innehades  till  en  borjan  af  kosackband,  hvilka  ofta  voro  sa  l&ngt  borta,  att  hufvudstyrkan  ej  kunde 
racka  dem  hjalp.    Foljaktligen  var  det  minga  som  froso  ihjal.  (119) 


ETT  JAPANSKT  SLAGSKEPP  UNDER  TORPEDOFORSVARSOFNINGAR 

For  att  radda  sig  undan  utsanda  torpedor  skyddas  sidorna  ef  ett  modernt  slagskepp  af  ofantliga  nat, 
som  hanga  pa  utskjutande  stanger,  och  befallningen  "Naten  ut"  Itfoljes  af  en  liflig  verksamhet  a  japa- 
nernas  sida,  hvilka  utfora  sin  krigsofning.  (loz) 


JAPANS  MAKT  TILL  SJOS 

Japans  styrkasom  en  sjomakt  erkandes  fran  borjan.  Dess  flotta  med  sina  atta  stora  slagskepp  och 
en  skara  af  kryssare  och  torpedobatar  var  en  skon  syn  att  skMa,  nar  den  lag  for  ankar  —  i  verksamhet 
var  den  fruktansvard.  (114) 


REDO  FOR  AKTION 

En  modern  eskader,  som  ar  redo  att  for  full  maskin  satta  istad  mot  fienden.  ar  en  uppskakande  syn. 
Slagskepp  och  kryssare,  torpedobatar,  torpedobatfbrstorare,  kanonbatar,  kustforsvarsfartyg  och  depesch- 
bitar  bilda  en  valdig  slaglinje.  (iij) 


MANSCHURISKA  BANDITER  ANFALLA  EN  JARNVAGSVAKT  AF  KOSSACKER 


Vid  forsvaret  af  den  manschuriska  grenen  af  den  Trans-sibiriska  jarnvagen  hade  ryssaina  inga  far- 
ligare  fiender  att  strida  med  an  kinesiska  banditer  i  dessa  trakter,  kanda  under  namnet  Hunghuser.  Man 
bar  aldrig  fatt  klart  for  sig  huru  niycket  samfbrstand  som  var  radande  mellan  dessa  vilda  manschuriska 
banditer  och  Kina  eller  Japan.  (io8) 


TORRDOCKAN  I  PORT  ARTHUR 


I  borjan  af  kriget  anvandes  torrdockan  i  Port  Arthur  si  langt  som  utrymmet  tillat  for  att  gora  nodiga 
reparationer,  isynnerhet  pa  de  tre  eskaderslagskeppen,  som  traflfades  af  japanernas  torpeder  under  det 
fbrsta  anfallet.  Minga  finnar  hade  sysselsattning  dar,  ty  de  aro  skickliga  arbetare.  Det  tyngsta  arbetet 
lades  pi  kineser.  (loo) 


MISSTANKTA  MANSCHURIANER  FORES  INFOR  EN  RYSK  OFFICER 

Chunghuserna  voro  manschuriska  banditer,  hvilka  misstanktes  for  att  stalla  till  oreda  for  ryssarna  i 
Mansqhuriet.    De  arc  bar  infor  en  ofgcgr  af  de  ryska  fortrupperna  och  iindergi  examinering.  (ii8) 


RYSKA  SJOMAN,  SOM  FORA  TORPEDER  OMBORD  PA  CZAREVITCH 

Atta  timmar  fore  fientligheternas  utbrott  mellan  Japan  och  Ryssland  lades  ett  stort  antal  toipeder 
ombord  pa  det  stora  ryska  slagskeppet  Czarevitch  i  forvantan  att  kunna  utslunga  dam  mot  fienden.  Den 
japanska  flottiljens  torpedoanfall  sparade  dem  modan,  ty  detta  fartyg  blef  sjali  ett  foretnal  for  fiendens 
torpedo.  (laS) 


ETT  RYSKT  LAGER  VID  YALU-FLODEN 

Hvart  och  ett  af  dessa  talt  innehafves  af  tie  ryssar.     Taltet  ar  tre  och  en  half  fot  hogt,  och  ar  upp- 
fordt  ofver  ett  med  halm  fyldt  h41,  samt  ar  ofvertackt  med  jord  och  sno.  (112) 


TILLFANGATAGANDET  AF  en  SPION  I  PORT  ARTHUR 

Det  japanska  spionsystemet  var  sardeles  farligt  for  ryssarna,  pa  grund  af  japanernas  likhet  i  kropps- 
byggnad  och  utseende  med  kineser.  Silunda  arresterades  flera  forkladda  japaner  inom  fasJningsverken 
i  Port  Arthur.  (loi) 


TRUPPER  SOM  AFTAGA  FRAN  PORT  ARTHUR  TILL  KOREA 

I  borjan  af  kriget,  niir  vice-konung  Alexieff  flyttade  sitt  hufvudkvarter  fr^n  Port  Arthur  till  Harbin, 
aftigade  nagra  af  garnisonstrupperna  till  den  koreanska  fronten,  diir  den  ryska  hufvudstyrkan  var  sam- 
lad.     A  denna  tafla  ser  man  dem  marschera  genom  hufvudgatan  i  Port  Arthur.  (41) 


JM 


L 


t-i     *  t; 


o 

w 

h 

>-! 

Ctrl 

Z 

fci 

'_■ 

w 

out 

u 

J2 

nS 

Cii 

() 

'   ' 

=<i 

O 

a 

o 

Q 

<u 

bo 

n 

■■< 

onl 

« 

•m 

H 

a 

Ph 

P. 

3 

O 

3 

o 

X 

0) 

W 

< 

M 

u 

o 

w 

J 

rt 

^ 

« 

<D 

--^ 

w 

T) 

!/) 

=nj 

Ph 

J3 

w 

t) 

M 

O 

2 

> 

r! 

w 

o 

Q 

M 

Q  c 


O   o 


:0     (U 


6  Z. 


X 

_c 

« 

Gl 

oj 
■w 

< 

c 

H 

C 

P. 

O 

— -       c   •-- 


rt 

nj 

m 

E^ 

«1H 

o 

n 

« 

a 

n 

3 

a 

T3 

u 

j= 

'^ 

F 

W 

:« 

NOTES:  [Page  97] 


[Page  98]  BASIC  PRINCIPLES  OP  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  [Lesson  34A] 

ACID  AND  SALT  SUPPLYING  FOODS 

Fruit  and  Vegetables  are  the  principal  sources  of  acid  and  salt  supplying  foods.  They  are 
also  found  in  fish,  meat  and  cereals. 

The  human  body  includes  compounds  of  lime,  potassium,  sodium,  iron  and  common  salt, 
the  latter  of  which  is  found  in  every  part  of  the  body,  except  the  enamel  of  the  teeth. 

Foods  containing  mineral  matter  are  necessary  for  the  formation  of  the  bones,  teeth, 
nails,  hair,  and  also  to  aid  digestion,  circiflation,  etc. 

Phosphorus  and  lime,  which  are  so  necessary  in  the  formation  of  bones  and  teeth,  are 
found  abundantly  in  the  cereals. 

The  cereals  should,  therefore,  form  an  important  food  in  the  diet  of  growing  children. 

FRUITS 

Fruits  are  seed  vessels  of  plants.  They  contain  a  large  amount  of  water,  cellulose,  sugar, 
acids  and  salts.  They  not  only  refresh  and  cool  the  system,  but  stimulate  the  appetite  and 
act  as  blood  purifiers. 

The  cellulose  helps  to  carry  off  waste  matter.  The  acids  destroy  germs  in  the  body. 
People  who  eat  a  large  amount  of  fruit  are  seldom  ill. 

Bananas,  dates  and  figs  are  rich  in  sugary  and  starchy  substances  and  form  the  staple 
food  in  the  countries  where  they  grow. 

Prunes   are  dried  plums.     Raisins   are   dried  grapes. 

Eat  only  sound,  ripe  fruit.     Unripe  fruit,  or  fruit  that  has  been  kept  a  little  too  long, 

may  be  cooked  to  make  it  safe  for  eating. 
t 
Do  not  eat  acid  fruits  with  milk  or  cream. 

VEGETABLES.     See  Lesson  4B. 
GENERAL  DIRECTIONS  FOR  CANNING  AND  PRESERVING  FRUIT 

Select  fresh,  firm  and  not  over-ripe  fruit.  Prepare  the  fruit  according  to  kind;  remove 
stems,  pare,  peel,  stone  or  core. 

For  canning  fruit  allow  1/3  of  the  weight  of  the  fruit  in  sugar  and  three  cups  of  water  to 
each  pound  of  sugar.  Boil  the  water  and  sugar  five  minutes  to  make  a  thin  syrup;  then  cook 
a  small  quantity  of  the  fruit  at  a  time  in  the  syrup  until  soft.  Pack  the  fruit  closely  in 
hot  sterilized  fruit  jars  (see  Lesson  5B),  and  pour  on  enough  syi'up  to  overflow  jars.  Use  the 
blade  of  a  silver  knife  to  push  fruit  away  from  jar  to  let  out  the  air  bubbles.  Put  on  ster- 
ilized covers  and  fasten  securely. 

Preserving  Fruit,  as  ordinarily  used,  means  the  cooking  of  fruit  with  from  %  to  its  own 
weight  of  sugar  with  little  or  no  water  used,  according  to  the  fruit. 

NOTE 

Fruits  should  be  cooked  in  granite,  earthen-ware,  or  porcelain  lined  kettles,  and  silver, 
wooden  or  granite  spoons  used.  If  cooked  in  tin  or  iron-ware,  poisonous  substances  may  be 
formed. 

Boil  the  first  four  ingredients  5  min.  Strain.  Brown  the  butter,  add  the  flour,  brown  the 
two.     Then  add  gradually  the  hot  liquid.     Boil.     Season  to  taste. 


[Lesson  S4B] 


CANNED  PRtTlTS 


[Page  99] 


CANNED  PEACHES 


2  c.  water 

3  lbs.  peaches 


1  lb.  sugar 

8  cloves  and  few  shavings  lemon  rind  (if  liked) 


Pour  boiling  water  over  peaches,  allow  them  to  stand  just  long  enough  to  loosen  thS 
skins,  so  they  can  be  removed  easily. 

Remove  skins,  cut  in  halves,  and  unless  cooked  at  once,  drop  into  enough  cold  water  to 
cover,  to  prevent  discoloration.  Add  a  few  peach  stones  to  the  boiling  syrup.  Cook  the 
peaches  in  the  syrup  until  soft,  pack  them  closely  in  hot  sterilized  fruit  jars,  and  pour  over 
them  the  boiling  syrup.     Cover  securely. 

Pears,  cherries,  apples,  yellow  tomatoes  and  plums  may  be  canned  like  the  peaches. 
Plums  and  tomatoes  should  be  pierced  with  a  needle  to  keep  them  from  bursting. 


STRAWBERRY  PRESERVES 

4  lbs.  strawberries  3  lbs.  sugar 


3  c.  water 


Pick  over,  wash,  drain  and  hull  the  berries.  Weigh.  Boil  the  sugar  and  water  15  minutes 
to  make  a  syrup.  Fill  sterilized  jars  with  the  berries,  cover  with  the  syrup.  Let  stand  15 
minutes.  Add  more  fruit.  Adjust  rubbers  and  covers.  Put  on  a  rest,  folded  paper,  or  a 
folded  cloth  in  a  kettle  of  cold  water.  Heat  water  to  boiling  point,  and  cook  slowly  one  hour. 
Screw  on  covers  securely. 

Raspberries  and  Blackberries  may  be  preserved  in  the  same  way. 


SWEET  PICKLED  PEACHES 


8  lbs.  fruit 
5  c.  vinegar 


%  lb.  ginger  root 
4%  lbs.  sugar 


1  oz.  stick  cinnamon 
%  oz,  whole  cloves 


Prepare  fruit  as  for  canning.  Boil  the  vinegar,  add  sugar  and  the  seasonings  (tied  in  a  piece 
of  cheese  cloth)  10  minutes.  Cook  the  peaches,  a  few  at  a  time,  in  the  syrup  until  soft.  Put 
fruit  into  sterilized  jars,  fill  to  overflowing  with  syrup.  Screw  on  covers  securely.  The  ginger- 
root  may  be  omitted. 

Pears,  plums,  apples,  crab-apples  or  quinces  may  be  prepared  in  the  same  way. 


SWEET  WATER  MELON  PICKLES 

2  c.  sugar  Vs  cup  stick  cinnamon 

Yq  cup  cloves 


7  e.  rind  of  melon 
3  c.  vinegar 

Cut  rind  in  strips,  remove  the  green  and  pink  portions.  Soak  in  alum  vs^ater,  allowing 
2  tsp.  powdered  alum  to  each  qt.  of  water.  Heat  slowly  to  boiling  point.  Cook  10  minutes. 
Drain,  cover  with  ice  water,  let  stand  2  hrs.,  drain  again.  Boil  the  vinegar,  sugar  and  season- 
ings (tied  in  cheese  cloth)  10  minutes.  Add  the  rind  and  cook  until  tender.  Put  in  jars  and 
cover  with  syrup. 


[Page  100]  BASIC  PrjNXirLEb  Oi    DuAiESlIC  saENCE  [Lesson  35A] 

PROTEINS— TISSUE    BUILDERS 

1.     EGGS 

The  eggs  of  many  birds,  both  wild  and  domestic,  are  used  for  food,  but  the  eggs  of  the 
domestic  hen  are  most  commonlv  used. 


SHELL- 

-MEMBRANE  K 


AIRSPACE 


MEMBRANEI 


A  hen's  egg  consists  of  eight  parts: 

1.  SHELL    (carbonate    of   lime). 

2.  MEMBRANE  I   (which  hes  next  to  the  shell). 

3.  WHITE   (albumen  and  water). 

4.  MEMBRANE  II   (Which  encloses  the  yolk). 

5.  YOLK    (oil,   albumen,  mineral  matter  and   water). 

6.  TWO  SPIRAL  CORDS  (which  hold  the  yolk  in  place). 

7.  EMBRYO   (the  little  mass  which  lies  next  to  the  yolk). 

8.  AIR  SPACE  (which  is  between  Membrane  I  and  the  round  end  of  the  shell). 

AVERAGE  COMPOSITION  OF  EGGS 

Proteins    14.9  per  cent  Mineral    matter 1.     per  cent 

Fat 10.6  per  cent  Water    73.5  per  cent 

TYPICAL  FOOD 

Eggs  form  a  highly  nutritious,  concentrated  food;  and  as  they  contain  all  the  elements  in 
the  right  proportion  to  support  the  body,  thoy  are  classed  as  a  typical  food. 

They  should  be  eaten  in  combination  with  foods  that  are  rich  in  starch,  such  as  bread, 
potatoes,  rice,  etc.  The  digestive  organs  will  then  have  more  to  act  upon,  a  certain  amount 
of  bulk  being  necessary. 

A  pound  of  eggs  (nine)  is  considered  equivalent  in  nutritive  value  to  a  pound  of  beef. 
Eggs  are  cheap  for  the  healthy  person  only  when  the  cost  does  not  exceed  16  cents  per  dozen. 

Digestion.- — All  proteids  are  acted  upon  by  the  rennin  or  pepsin  ferments  in  the  gastric 
juice  of  the  stomach  and  the  trypsin  of  the  pancreatic  juice  in  the  small  intestines. 

EXPERIMENTS  WITH  ALBUMEN 

Break  an  egg,  separate  the  yolk  from  the  white.  Divide  the  white  into  three  portions 
(A,  B,  C). 

Ex.  I.        Half  fill  a  glass  with  cold  water,  add  A.     Beat  thoroly.     Note  results. 

Ex.  II.  Half  fill  a  small  saucepan  with  water;  place  over  the  fire  and  when  the  water 
boils,  add  B.     Boil  2  minutes.     Note  results. 

Ex.  HI.  Half  fill  a  small  saucepan  with  boiling  water;  add  C.  Place  where  it  wilj 
neither  simmer  nor  boil.     Let  stand   5  minutes.     Note  results. 

I.  Cold  water  dissolves  albumen. 

II.  Heat  coagulates  albumen.     Albumen  cooked  in  boiling  water  is  tough  and  homy. 
ITT,     Albumen  cooked  in  watfer  below  simmering  point  is  jelly-like  and  tender. 
NOTE. — Change  of  albumen  from  a  liquid  to  a  solid  state  is  called  coagulation. 


[Lesson  35B]  COOKED  EGGS  [Page  101] 


GENERAL  DIRECTIONS  FOR  COOKED  EGGS 

Have  ready  a  saucepan  containing  boiling  water.  A  general  rule  is  to  allow  one  pint 
of  water  to  two  eggs,  and  an  extra  cupful  for  each  additional  egg.  Place  the  eggs  in  the 
water   with  a  spoon  and  cover  the  saucepan. 

SOFT-COOKED  EGGS 

Place  the  eggs  in  a  saucepan  containing  boiling  water,  let  them  stand  on  back  of  range 
from  8  to  10   minutes. 

HARD-COOKED  EGGS 

Place  the  eggs  in  a  saucepan  containing  boiling  w.iter,  and  let  them  stand  on  back  of 
the  range  from  40  to  45  minutes. 

POACHED  EGGS 

Prepare  a  slice  of  buttered  toast  for  each  egg,  and  keep  it  hot.  Have  ready  a  shallow 
greased  pan  containing  boiling  salted  water  to  cover  the  eggs.  Break  each  egg  separately  into 
a  saucer  and  slip  it  gently  into  the  water,  being  careful  that  the  water  does  not  reach  the 
boiling  point.  Cook  until  the  white  is  firm  and  a  film  forms  over  top  of  the  yolk.  Remove 
the  eggs  from  the  water  with  a  skimmer  or  a  griddle  cake  turner.  Drain,  trim  off  rough 
edges,  and  place  each  egg  on  a  slice  of  toast. 


Scrambled   Eggs   with   Bacon 

SCRAMBLED  EGGS 

Two  tbsp.  butter;  5  eggs;  %  c.  milk;  l^/^  tsp.  salt,  and  few  grs.  pepper.  Beat  eggs 
slightly,  add  salt,  pepper  and  milk.  Melt  the  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  pour  in  the  egg  mix- 
ture, and  cook  slowly,  continually  scraping  from  bottom  of  pan.  When  creamy,  turn  into 
a  hot  dish  and  serve  at  once.     Serve  with  ham  or  bacon,  etc. 

STUFFED  EGGS 

Cvit  hard  cooked  eggs  in  halves  lengthwise  or  crosswise.  Remove  yolks  and  mash  them. 
Add  half  the  amount  of  deviled  ham  and  enough  melted  butter  to  make  of  consistency  to 
shape.  Shape  into  balls  and  refill  whites.  Form  remainder  of  mixture  into  nests  on  circular 
pieces  of  bread  toasted  on  top  side.  Arrange  eggs  on  the  nest.  Pour  over  them  white  sauce 
and  sprinkle  with  buttered  crumbs.     Bake  in  moderate  oven  until  brown.     Serve. 

NOTES: 


[Page  102]  BASIC  PRlXaPLES  OF  DOMESTIC  SaENCE  [Lesson  36A] 

PROTEINS— TISSUE   BUILDERS 

I.     EGGS— Continued 

Careful  experiments  sliow  that  albumen  begins  to  coagulate  at  134  deg.  F.,  and  becomes 
jelly-like  at  160  deg.  F.  When  cooked  at  160  deg.  to  185  deg.  F.  the  albumen  is  rendered 
tender  and  readily  digestible.     Therefore,  eggs  should  be  cooked  at  a  low  temperature. 

WHY  EGGS   SPOIL 

Eggs  spoil  easily.  Owing  to  the  porous  structure  of  the  shell,  bacteria  enter,  either 
from  the  place  where  the  eggs  have  been  lying,  or  by  means  of  the  air  that  rushes  in  as  the 
water  evaporates.     These  grow  and  decomposition  takes  place. 


FRESH  EGGS 

1.  A  fresh  egg  has  a  thick,  rough  shell.  / 

2.  A  fresh  egg  sinks  when  dropped  into  a  basin  of  cold  water.   (See  illustration.) 

3.  A  fresh  egg  looks  clear  when  held  between  the  eye  and  a  strong  light. 

HOW  TO  PRESERVE  EGGS 

When  eggs  come  from  the  market  they  should  be  washed  and  kept  in  a  cool,  dry  place. 
Eggs  may  be  kept  for  a  long  time  by  packing  them,  small  end  down,  in  substances  that  will 
exclude  air.  Example:  bran,  salt,  etc.  The  U.  S.  Department  of  Agriculture  recommends 
liquid  glass  as  a  preservative.  Put  fresh  eggs  into  stone  crocks,  cover  with  a  mixture  of  one 
part  liquid  glass  to  nine  parts  water.     Cover  jars  and  keep  in  a  cool  place. 

When  using  several  eggs,  break  each  one  separately  into  a  cup.  In  this  way  a  poor 
egg  may  be  detected.  The  "yolk  may  be  kept  by  covering  with  cold  water,  or  cover  dish  with 
dampened  paper. 

HOW  TO  BREAK  AN  EGG 
Hold  the  egg  in  the  left  hand  and  crack  the  shell  by  striking  it  sharply  with  a  knife. 

TO  SEPARATE  THE  YOLK  FROM  THE  WHITE 

Slip  the  yolk  from  one  piece  of  shell  to  the  other  several  times.  Slip  the  white  onto 
a  plate  or  deep  platter  and  drop  the  yolk  into  a  bowl. 

FOR  SLIGHTLY  BEATEN  EGG,  yolk  or  white,  use  a  fork. 

FOR  A  WELL  BEATEN  YOLK  use  a  Dover  egg-beater. 

FOR  A  WELL  BEATEN  WHITE  us-  a  wire  whi^sk  beater. 

DO  NOT  ALLOW  THE  BEATEN  WHITE  TO  STAND,  but  use  it  immediately. 

Do  not  stir  it  after  beating. 

J^OTE. — Liquid  glass  maj  be  purchased  at  any  drug  store, 


[Lesson  36B] 


BAKED  CUSTARDS 


[Page  103] 


YELLOW  CUSTARD 


%,  tsp.  salt 

Few  grains  nutmeg  or* 
cinnamon 


4  c.  scalded  milk  6  eggs   (if  baked  in  a  large 

4  eggs    (if   baked   in   individual        mould) 
custard  cups)  %  c.  sugar 

Beat  eggs  slightly;  stir  in  the  sugar  and  salt;  add  the  scalded  milk  slowly  to  the  egg 
mixture;  strain  into  buttered  custard  cups  and  sprinkle  a  little  nutmeg  on  top  of  each. 
Set  cups  in  a  pan  containing  hot  water,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  luitil  custard  is  firm. 

If  a  clean  cut  can  be  made  with  a  knife,  the  custard  is  done. 

Do  not  let  the  water  in  the  pan  reach  the  boiling  point  during  baking.     Why? 


Baked  Caramel  Custard  with  Whipped  Cream 


1  c.  sugar 


CARAMEL  CUSTARD 

4  c.  scalded  milk  %  tsp.  salt 

5  eggs  X  tsp.  vanilla 

Melt  the  sugar  to  a  light  brown  syrup  in  a  saucepan  over  a  hot  fire.  Add  scalded  milk 
and  cook  until  free  from  lumps.  Pour  this  into  the  sligntly  beaten  eggs.  Add  salt  and 
flavoring,  then  strain  into  a  buttered  mould.     Bake  as  Yellow  Custard. 


WHITE  CUSTARD 


tsp.  salt 
2.  scalded  milk 


%  tsp.  vanilla 


Whites  of  4  eggs  % 

^  c.  sugar  2  < 

Beat  the  whites  slightly;  stir  in  the  sugar  and  salt.  Pour  on  the  scalded  milk  gradually. 
Add  vanilla,  strain  into  a  buttered  baking  dish.  Bake  as  Yellow  Custard.  Shredded  cocoanut 
may  be  added. 


CHOCOLATE  CUSTARD 


sq.  unsweetened  chocolate 
c.  sugar 


Vs  tsp.  salt 
%  tsp.  vanilla 


2  tbsp.  water 

2  c.  milk 

3  eggs 
Scald  the  milk;  melt  the  chocolate,  stir  in  half  the  sugar,  add  the  water  and  cook  until 

smooth  and  glossy.  Add  the  scalded  milk  to  the  chocolate  mixture,  stirring  until  well  mixed. 
Beat  the  eggs  slightly.  Add  remainder  of  sugar  and  the  salt.  Pour  into  it  the  chocolate  and 
milk  mixture;  strain  into  buttered  moulds.     Bake  as  Yellow  Custard. 

CHEESE  CUSTARD 

1  c.  milk  1  egg  2  tbsp.  cheese  %  tsp.  salt       Few  grains  pepper 

Scald  the  milk;   stir  into  it  the  beaten  egg,  add  the  cheese,  salt  and  pepper.     Bake  as 
Yellow  Custard. 

CUSTARD  BREAD  PUDDING 

May  be  made  by  pouring  any  of  these  mixtures  over  buttered  slices  of  toast  an(l  bakpcl 
according  to  directions  for  Baked  YeUow  Custard, 


[Page  104]  BASIC  PRINCIPLES  OF  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  [Lesson  37A] 

PROTEINS— TISSUE    BUILDERS 

MILK 

MILK  is  the  natural  food  of  the  young  of  all  the  higher  animals. 

IT  IS  A  PERFECT  FOOD  for  the  infant,  as  it  contains  all  the  food  principles  in  the 
right  proportion  to  fully  nourish  it. 

Milk  should  he  the  chief  food  for  a  child  at  least  until  the  first  teeth  appear. 

C  Proteids     3.3  per  cent 

I    Carbohydrates   (milk  sugar,  called  lactose) 5.  per  cent 

COMPOSITION  4   Fats     . 4.  per  cent 

1   Mineral  Matter   , : 7  per  cent 

(^  Water    87.  per  cent 

The  greatest  benefit  is  obtained  from  milk  when  it  is  heated  to  blood  heat  and  taken  at 
regular  intervals  between  meals,  and  then  it  is  more  easily  digested  when  taken  in  sips. 
Small  curds  are  then  formed  in  the  stomach.  Large  curds  are  formed  when  the  milk  is 
taken  hurriedly  in  large  quantities. 

Milk  should  be  heated  over  hot  water.  Boiling  milk  coagulates  the  albumen  and  makes  it 
less  digestible, 

BUYING  MILK 

Do  not  buy  cheap  milk.  Good  milk  is  a  yellowish  white  liquid,  and  tastes  slightly  sweet. 
!piLK  undiluted  with  water  clings  to  the  glass. 

MILK  should  have  no  sediment  and  should  not  look  blue  around  the  edges.  A  good  plan 
is  to  buy  MILK  in  the  evening  and  let  it  stand  over  night  in  order  to  let  the  cream  rise. 
Skim  and  serve  the  cream  with  the  cereal  and  coffee  for  breakfast.  Use  the  SKIMMED 
MILK  for  COOKING  and  DRINKING  purposes. 

Milk  quickly  absorbs  odors,  and  should  be  kept  in  clean  vessels  (glass  or  earthenware) 
in  a  cool,  clean  place. 

BACTERIA  grow  and  multiply  very  rapidly  in  MILK;  therefore  the  utmost  cleanliness 
in  handling  is  necessary. 

MILK  PRODUCTS 

When  milk  stands,  the  fat  globules  rise  to  the  top  in  the  form  of  CREAM.  Cream  is 
put  into  a  churn  and  shaken  and  the  globules  of  cream  gather  together  as  BUTTER,  and 
the  liquid  left  is  called  BUTTERMILK. 

An  acid  added  to  milk  coagulates  the  casein  forming  a  CURD  separating  it  from  the 
liquid,  then  called  WHEY.  The  CURD  is  then  made  into  CHEESE  which  contains  condensed 
nourishment    (casein  and  fat  of  milk). 

CONDENSED  MILK  is  prepared  by  evaporating  milk  to  about  %  to  ^  of  its  volume, 

MILK  is  preserved  by  STERILIZATION,  PASTEURIZATION  and  EVAPORATION. 

NOTES: 


[Lesson  37B] 


PROTEIDS— TISSUE  BUILDERS 


[Page  105] 


PASTEURIZED  MILK 

Sterilize  bottles  by  putting  them  edgewise  into  cold  water;  bring  slowly  to  boiling  point 
and  boil  twenty  minutes.  Fill  the  sterilized  bottles  %  full  of  milk  and  cork  with  cotton 
which  has  been  baked  in  the  oven,  or  with  steriHzed  rubber  corks.  Place  bottles  on  a  rest  or 
on  several  thicknesses  of  paper  in  a  pan.  Fill  pan  with  enough  cold  water  to  reach  as  high 
as  the  milk  in  the  bottles.  Heat  gradually  to  160  deg.  or  until  small  bubbles  appear  in  the 
milk  next  the  glass.  Keep  at  this  temperature  40  minutes.  Cork  the  bottles  quickly  and 
keep  in  a  cold  place.     Do  not  remove  corks  until  ready  to  use  the  milk. 


RENNET  CUSTARD  OR  JUNKET 


1  qt.  milk 
4  tbsp.  sugar 


1  tsp.  vanilla 
1/4  tsp.  salt 


1  tbsp.  liquid  rennet  or  1  junket 
tablet  dissolved  in  1  tbsp. 
water 


Heat  the  milk  until  lukewarm;  add  the  sugar,  salt,  and  flavoring,  stirring  until  the  sugar 
is  dissolved.  Add  the  junket  water  and  pour  into  the  serving  dish.  Chill.  Serve  with  plain 
or  whipped  cream. 

WHIPPED   CREAM 

1  c.  thick  cream  3  tbsp.  sugar  %   tsp.  vanilla 

Pour  the  cream  into  a  bowl  and  set  in  a  pan  of  ice  water.  Whip  with  a  wire  whisk  or 
Dover  egg-beater  until  stiff  enough  to  hold  its  shape.  Add  sugar  and  vanilla.  Do  not  beat 
the  cream  too  long. 


SOUR  MILK  CHEESE  OR  COTTAGE  CHEESE 

1  qt.  sour  milk  1  tsp.  butter  2  or  3  tbsp.  cream 

1/4  tsp.  salt 
Heat  the  milk  slowly  until  the  curd  separates  from  the  whey.  Strain  thru  a  piece  of 
cheese  cloth.  Squeeze  curd  until  quite  dry.  Put  curd  in  a  bowl  and  with  a  fork  mix  it  with  salt, 
butter  and  cream.  Form  into  balls.  These  may  be  rolled  in  chopped  parsley.  The  curd 
may  be  separated  from  the  whey  by  adding  one  Rennet  Tablet  to  a  qum-t  of  milk  heated 
to  100  deg.  F.     Then  beat  to  separate  curd  from  w^hey. 


[Page  106]  BASIL  i'RINCIPLES  OF  DOMESTIC  SCTENCE  [Lesson  38A] 

PROTEINS— TISSUE    BUILDERS 


Cheese  c'traws 


CHEESE 

CHEESE  is  the  curd  of  milk  separated  and  pressed. 

Cheese  is  made  chiefly  from  the  milk  of  cows.     Goats'  milk  is  sometimes  used. 

Cheese  may  be  made  from  whole  milk,  to  which  cream  has  been  added,  or  from  skimmed 
milk. 

The  curd  may  be  separated  by  allowing  the  milk  to  stand  until  it  is  sour.  It  is  ther 
heated  slightly  and  the  curd  separated  from  the  whey.  It  may  be  prepared  by  the  action 
of  rennet.  The  curd  is  then  pressed  to  remove  the  whey.  After  pressure  the  curd  is  then 
set  aside  and  kept  at  a  favorable  temperature  to  ripen,  the  time  required  varying  from  a 
short  time  to  three  or  four  years.  New  flavors  are  developed  and  the  texture  altered  during 
the  ripening  process.     The  ripening  is  due  to  bacteria  and  moulds. 

Cheese  made  from  full  milk  is  half  fat.     Cheese  made  of  skimmed  milk  is  sometimes  filled 
by  the  addition  of  cheap  fat,  lard,  etc. 

Filled  cheese  is  greasy  when  warmed,  and  does  not  keep  well. 

Various  brands  of  cheese  take  their  names  from  the  places  where  they  are  made. 

SKIM-MILK  Cheese — Parmesan,  Edam  and  Gruyen. 

MILK  Cheese — Gorgonzola,  Cheddar,  Gloucester,  Cheshire. 

MILK  and  CREAM  Cheese— Double  Gloucester  and  Stilton,  Neufchatel,  Cream  Cheese, 
Camembert  and  Brie,  Brick  Cheese,  Roquefort. 

ONE  POUND  of  cheese  contains  as  much  nutriment  as  two  pounds  of  meat. 

It  is  a  highly  concentrated  protein  food,  and  therefore  should  be  eaten  in  small  quantities 
with  carbohydrates. 

Cheese  should  be  kept  covered. 

Grate  the  cheese  when  it  becomes  hard  and  dry. 

Anv  kind  of  cheese  is  made  more  digestible  by  being  finely  divided  or  dissolved  and  mixed 
with  other  foods,  as  in  cooking. 

Cheese  may  be  added  to  several  scalloped  dishes  (ex.,  macaroni  and  cheese)  or  used  as 
flavoring  for  soups. 

Cheese  is  sufRciently  cooked  when   melted;   long  cooking  makes   it  tough. 

Soda  added  to  dishes  prepared  with  cheese  makes  the  cheese  dissolve  more  readily,  thereby 
making  it  more  digestible.     When  adding  soda,  use  Vs  tsp.  to  a  cupful  of  grated  cheese. 

NOTES: 


[Lesson  38B]  CHEESE  DISHES  [Page  107] 

TOASTED  CHEESE  SANDWICHES 

Prepare  toast;  dip  quickly  in  hot  salted  water.     Spread  slices  with  grated  cheese;  place 
in  a  pan  in  the  oven  long  enough  to  melt  the  cheese. 
Put  the  slices  together  as  sandwiches. 

WELSH  RABBIT 

%  lb.  cheese    (grated)  Few  grs.  cayenne  2  eggs 

14  tsp.  mustard  %  tsp.  soda  1  tbsp.    butter 

%  tsp.salt  y2  c.  milk  Crackers  or  toast 

Mix  the  first  six  ingredients;  cook  over  hot  water  until  cheese  is  melted;  pour  this  into 
the  slightly  beaten  eggs,  add  the  butter  and  cook  over  hot  water,  stirring  constantly,  until 
thick  and  smooth.    Pour  over  slices  of  toast  or  crackers  and  sei"ve  at  once. 

CHEESE  FONDUE 

1  c.  scalded  milk  Few  grains  pepper  %  tsp.  mustard  (if  liked) 

1  c.  soft  bread  crumbs  1  tbsp.  butter  3  eggs 

2  c.  cheese  (cut  fine)  %  tsp.  salt 

Mix  first  seven  ingredients,  add  well  beaten  yolks.  Cut  and  fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten 
whites.  Pour  into  a  buttered  baking  dish  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  twenty  minutes,  or 
until  done. 

Baked  in  ramekin  dishes — called  cheese  ramekins. 

CHEESE  SOUFFLE 

2  tbsp.  butter  14  tsp.  salt  %  c.  grated  or  shaved  cheese 

2  tbsp.  flour  Few  grs.  cayenne  2  eggs 

1^  c.  scalded  milk 

Melt  the  butter,  add  flour,  and  when  thoroly  mixed  add  gradually  the  scalded  milk,  stir- 
ring continually  until  smooth  and  thickened.  Then  add  seasonings  and  cheese.  Remove 
from  fire,  add  the  well  beaten  yolks,  cool;  fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten  whites.  Pour  in  a  but- 
tered baking  dish  and  bake  about  30  minutes.     Serve  immediately. 


CHEESE  STRAWS 

5  tbsp.  flour                                   %  tbsp.  butter.  %  c.  grated  cheese 

Vs  tsp.  salt                                    %  c.  soft  bread  crumbs  2  tbsp.  milk 
Few  grs.  cayenne  or  paprika 

Add  salt  and  pepper  to  the  flour,  chop  in  the  butter;  add  crumbs  and  grated  cheese. 

Mix  thoroly,  then  add  milk  to  make  a  dough.  Knead  until  smooth.  Roll  %  inch  thick  and 
cut  in  strips.  Lay  them  on  buttered  paper  in  a  pan  and  bake  10  minutes  or  until  light  brown 
\n  a  moderate  oven.     Parmesan  is  good  for  cheese  straws, 


[Page  108]  BASIC  PRENOIPLES  OF  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  [Lesson  39A] 

FREEZING 
ICE  and  SALT  form  a  freezing  mixture,  several  degrees  below  the  freezing  point  of  water. 

SALT  melts  the  ice,  withdrawing  heat  from  the  contents  of  the  can,  and  the  melting 
ice  dissolves  the  salt.  The  smaller  the  pieces  of  ice,  the  more  quickly  the  change  to  liquid 
and  the  more  salt  used,  the  more  quickly  the  mixture  is  frozen.  If  too  much  salt  is  used, 
however,  the  frozen  mixture  will  be  coarsely  grained.  Three  parts  ice  to  one  part  salt  is  the 
best  proportion  for  a  smooth,  fine-grained  cream, 

DIRECTIONS   FOR   FREEZING 

Scald  can,  cover  and  dasher,  then  chill. 

Place  the  can  of  the  freezer  in  the  pail;  put  in  the  dasher,  and  pour  in  mixture  to  be 
frozen.     Cover  and  adjust  top.     Turn  crank  to  make  sure  can  fits  in  socket. 

Fill  the  space  between  the  can  and  pail  with  alternate  layers  of  ice  and  salt,  allowing 
three  measures  of  ice  to  one  of  salt. 

The  ice  and  salt  should  come  a  little  higher  in  the  pail  than  mixture  to  be  frozen. 
The  can  should  not  be  more  than  %  full,  as  the  mixture  expands  in  freezing. 
Turn  the  crank  slowly  at  first,  then  turn  crank  more  rapidly,  adding  more  salt  and  ice  if 
needed. 

Do  not  draw  off  the  water,  unless  it  stands  so  high  that  there  is  danger  of  it  getting  into 
the  can. 

After  freezing,  draw  off  the  water,  remove  dasher,  and  with  spoon  push  solidly. 

Put  cork  in  opening  of  cover. 

Repack,  using  four  parts  of  ice  to  one  of  salt. 

Place  on  top  newspapers,  an  old  blanket,  or  a  piece  of  carpet. 

HOW  TO  MAKE  ICE  CREAM  OR  ICES  WITHOUT  A  FREEZER 

Cover  bottom  of  pail  with  crushed  ice.  Put  in  baking  powder  can,  tumbler,  or  lard  pail 
containing  mixture  to  be  frozen,  and  surround  with  ice  and  salt.  Turn  can  or  tumbler  with 
hand  occasionally,  and  as  soon  as  it  begins  to  freeze,  scrape  frozen  mixture  from  sides  of 
can  with  a  knife  or  spatula,  and  beat  mixture  with  spoon,  continuing  until  mixture  is  frozen. 


Ice  Cream  Served  in  Cantaloupe 


[Leason  39B]        FROZEN  MILK  AND  CREAM  MIXTtJRES,  ICE  CHEAM  [Page  109] 


Vanilla  Ice   Cream  with  Sliced  Peaches 

VANILLA   ICE    CREAM— I 

1  qt.  thin  cream  %  c.  sugar  li^  tbsp.  vanilla 
Mix  ingredients  and  freeze. 

VANILLA   ICE   CREAM— II 

iy2  c.  scalded  milk  %  c.  sugar  1  qt.  thin  cream 

1  tbsp,  flour  i/g   tsp.   salt  2  tbsp.  vanilla 

1  egg 

Mix  flour,  sugar  and  salt;  add  egg  slightly  beaten,  and  milk  gradually.  Cook  in  double 
boiler  20  minutes,  stirring  constantly  at  first.  Should  custard  have  curdled  appearance,  it  will 
disappear  in  freezing.  When  cool,  tidd  flavoring  and  cream.  Strain  and  freeze.  Fresh  fruit 
may  be  cut  up  and  served  with  the  ice  cream. 

♦  CHOCOLATE   ICE   CREAM 

Melt  4  oz.  unsweetened  chocolate;  add  1  c.  water  and  boil  5  min.  Add  this  to  Vanilla 
Ice  Cream  mixture. 

STRAWBERRY  ICE  CREAM 

1  qt.  thin  cream  1  c.  sugar  1  box  strawberries 

Wash  and  hull  berries.  Sprinkle  with  sugar.  Let  stand  one  hour.  Mash  and  rub  thru 
strainer.     Add  the  cream  and  freeze. 

CARAMEL  ICE  CREAM 

Prepare  same  as  Vanilla  Ice  Cream  II,  using  1^2  c.  sugar.  Caramelize  1  cupful  of  the 
sugar  according  to  the  directions  for  Caramel  Custard  in  Lesson  36B. 

NUT  ICE  CREAM 
Add  chopped  nuts  to  Vanilla  Ice  Cream  mixture. 

MILK  SHERBET 

2  c.    sugar  %    c.    lemon    juice  1    qt.    milk 

Mix  the  sugar  and  strained  lemon  juice.  Pour  the  milk  into  the  freezer-can,  add  the 
lemon  mixture.     Stir  thoroly,  cover,  freeze. 


[Page  110]  BASIC  PRIi^CIPLES  OF  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  [Lesson  40A] 

PROTEINS— TISSUE   BUILDERS 

MEAT 
DEFINITION.— MEAT  is  the  name  given  to  the  flesh  of  animals  used  for  food. 

Proteins 18.36 

Gelatin , '. 1.64 

Extractives    '. 1.90 

Fat 90 

Mineral     1.30 

Water 75.90 


AVERAGE  COMPOSITION 
OF  LEAN  BEEF 


100.00 
KINDS 

Beef  is  the  meat  of  the  steer,  ox  or  cow,  and  is  the  most  nutritious  of  animal  foods. 
The  best  beef  is  obtained  from  a  steer  four  or  five  years  old. 

Veal  is  the  meat  of  a  young  calf  killed  when  six  or  eight  weeks  old.  The  meat  from  a 
younger  calf  is  unwholesome.    Veal  is  less  nutritious  than  beef,  and  is  not  so  easily  digested. 

Mutton  is  the  name  given  to  the  meat  of  sheep.  Mutton  is  considered  almost  as 
nutritious  as  beef.  The  fat  of  mutton  is  not  as  easily  digested  as  the  fat  of  beef.  Good 
mutton  comes  from  a  sheep  about  three  years  old. 

Lamb  is  the  name  given  to  the  meat  of  lambs.  Lamb  is  less  nutritious  than  mutton. 
Young  lamb,  when  killed  from  six  to  eight  weeks  old,  is  called  spring  lamb.  Lamb  one  year 
old   is   called   yearling. 

Poultry  includes  chicken,  turkey,  geese,  duck,  etc. 

Game  incudes  wild  fowl  and  wild  animals,  as  partridges,  grouse,  quails,  pigeon's,  ven- 
ison, etc. 

SELECTION 

MEAT  should  be  uniform  in  color,  the  flesh  should  be  firm  and  elastic  to  the  touch. 
The  flesh  of  beef  should  be  of  a  bright  red  color,   and  intermingled   with   fat  that  is 
yellowish, 

MUTTON  should  be  dull  red  in  color,  and  the  fat  white. 

LAMB  and  VEAL  should  be  lighter  in  color  and  the  flesh  less  firm  than  in  beef. 

Meat  should  be  removed  from  the  paper  as  soon  as  it  comes  from  the  market. 

Meat  should  be  kept  in  a  cool  place. 

Always  wipe  meat  with   a  damp  cloth. 

METHODS  OF  COOKING 

The  usual  Methods  of  Cooking  are  boiling,  stewing,  steaming,  broiling,  roasting,  baking, 
frying,  sauteing,  braising  and  fricasseeing. 

Boiling. — Cooking  in  boiling  water. 

Stewing. — Cooking  for  a  long  time  below  the  boiling  point. 

Steaming. — Cooking  over  the  steam  of  boiling  water. 

Broiling, — Cooking  over  a  glowing  fire. 

Roasting. — Cooking  before  a  glowing  fire  (as  commonly  used,  is  the  same  as  baking). 

Baking. — Cooking  by  the  dry  confined  heat  of  the  oven. 

Frying. — Cooking  in  hot  fat  deep  enough  to  cover  the  article  to  be  cooked. 

Sauteing. — Cooking  in  a  small  quantity  of  fat  (commonly  called  frying). 

Braising. — A  combination  of  stewing  and  baking, 

Fricasseeing, — A  combination  of  frying  and  stewing. 

NOTES: 


rXcBson  40B] 


MEAT  LOAF  MIXTURES 


Lrage  111] 


Beef  Loaf  with  Riced  Potatoes 


BEEF  LOAF 

2  lbs.  bcof  cut  from  the  round  Vi   ^^V-  l><"l>!'<'i' 

^2   tsp.   onion  juice  1  ben  ten  cj^jj; 

1   tttp.  salt  1   tbHj).  clioppod  pnrsloy 


2  in.  oul)0  Huot 
1  c.  bread  crumbs 
i/o  c.  mi  lit 


Wipe  the  meat  with  a  clolli.  I'lil.  ilnu  a  meal,  cbopixT  widi  (lie  Huct.  Add  (lie  wcason- 
iiii^.s;  Uiiead;  add  tlici  crumbs,  \v<'ll  beat. en  ej;^,  and  j^rinliially  iiic  milk.  Knead  imlil  spoii<j;y. 
Sbapo  iiii.o  a-  loaf.  I'lac(^  in  a,  ])aii  lined  wiili  lliin  slires  dl"  salt  pork  fat,  or  spic^ad  surl'ace 
generously  wilii  suet.  l)r(>d<^o  wiMi  Hour,  season  willi  sail,  and  pepp(>r.  I'ake  10  minutes. 
Baste  every  .'>  minutes  witli  1  tbsp.  bulier  or  mellcd  suel  niixed  vvilli  I  c.  boilinj;  walcr.  Tliis 
mixture  nuiy  be  steamed  2  hours. 

Veal  loaf  may'  bo  prepared  in  th(>  sain(>  way,  substituting  veal  for  beef. 


%  c.  bread  crumbH 
3 


CHICKEN  LOAF 

4   lb.  chicken  %  c.  milk 

1    tsp.  salt  Vs  ts]).  paprika 

%  tap.  c(dery  salt 

•  Force  the  chicken  men/,  thru  the  meat  e!i()p|)er.  Work  in  the  seiisdniiif;  and  crumbs  with 
a  wooden  spoon.  Add  (lie  wed!  bealen  yolks,  and  I  hen  tiui  milk  gradually.  ('J'asic  and  weiiHon 
mor(!  Iiighly  if  necessary.^  Fold  in  the  stilTly  beaten  wiiites  and  bake  in  a  well  buttered  mold 
placed  in  a  pan  of  hot  water,  or  steam  JJV^i  iiours. 


1  lb.  beef 
1  lb.  veal 
1  lb.  pork 
1  y>    tsp.    salt 

Follow  direclionH  for  Beef  Loaf . 


MEAT  LOAF 

Ml    twp.    pei)per 

1    slice  chopped   onion 

1    tbsp.   cliopped    parsley 


1  beaten  egg 

IVi!  c.  bread  (irumbs 

%   c.  milk 


POTATO  NESTS 

Prepare  mashed  potatoes  according  to  Lesson  inH.  Shape  into  nests,  brush  witli  slightly 
bcatcui  (^gg  a)id  brown  in  oven,  ('i'ake  IxM-f  loaf  nuxturct,  sha|)()  to  iniitaie  liltle  birds,  using 
cloves  for  eyes,  bake;  10  luin.  in  oven,  basting  frequently.     Kcu've  in  nesls.) 


I 


2  cloves 

1   slice  onion 

%   (',.  tomato 


TOMATO  SAUCE 

%  tsp.  salt 
%   tsp.  i.e|)per 
•y^    c.   wa,ter 


2  tbsp.  butter 

2   tbsp.   Hour 


Boil  the  first  four  irigredioutH  T)  inin.     Strain.      Hrowii  in   butter,    add    (l(Mir,   brown    tk 
two.     Then  add  gradually  tlio  iiot  liquid.     Boil.     Season  to  taste. 


fPage  112]  BASIC  PRINCIPLES  OF  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  [Lesson  4IA] 

PROTEINS— TISSUE    BUILDERS 

METHODS  OF  COOKING  MEAT 
OBJECT— 

1.  To  extract  the  juices,  as  in  Soups,  Broths  and  Beef  Teas. 

2.  To  retain  the  juices,  as  in  Broiling,  Roasting,  Boiling  and  Frying. 

3.  Combination  of  both,  as  in  Stewing,  and  Braising,  where  part  of  the  juices  are 
retained  and  part  extracted. 

EXPERIMENTS 

1.  Put  a  piece  of  beef  (2  in.)  into  a  glass  half  filled  with  cold  water.  Let  stand  20 
rain.     Does  the  water  look  just  the  same?  ^. 

2.  Scrape  or  cut  a  piece  of  beef  (2  in.)  into  small  pieces.  Put  into  a  glass  half  filled 
with  cold  water.     Compare  with  No.  1. 

3.  Put  a  small  piece  of  beef  into  a  heavy  glass.     Pour  on  boiling  water.    What  happens? 
What  effect  does  COLD  water  have  on  albumen? 

What  effect  does  BOILING  water  have  on  albumen? 

HOW  TO  PREPARE  BEEF  TEA 

1  lb.  lean  beef  1  pt.  cold  water  Salt  to  taste 

Scrape  or  cut  the  meat  into  small  pieces  and  put  it  with  the  cold  water  into  a  glass  jar 
or  top  of  a  double  boiler.  Let  stand  30  mih.  Place  on  a  trivet  in  a  kettle  containing  cold 
water,  or  over  lower  part  of  double  boiler.  Heat  slowly.  Let  stand  at  a  low  temperature 
(130  deg.  F.)  2  or  3  hrs.  Strain  thru  a  coarse  strainer  and  press  the  meat  to  obtain  all  the 
juices.     Beef  tea  prepared  below  coagulating  point  of  albumen  is  a  nutrient. 

BROILED  BEEF  ESSENCE 

One  lb.  steak  from  the  round  and  cut  %  in.  thick.  Wipe  meat,  place  in  a  heated  broiler. 
Broil  3  min.,  put  on  hot  plate,  cut  into  small  pieces.  Extract  the  juice  with  a  lemon 
squeezer,  potato  ricer,  or  vegetable  press,  and  turn  into  a  cup.     Set  in  a  dish  of  hot  water. 

DIRECTIONS  FOR  SOUP-MAKING 

2  lbs.  raw  meat  and  bone  Bit  of  bay  leaf  4  tbsp.  turnip,  cubed 
1  lb.  browned  meat  and  bone                Sprig  of  parsley  %   tsp.   salt 

3  qts.  water  4  tbsp.  carrot,  cubed         2  peppercorns 

1  stalk  celery  4  tbsp.  onion,  sliced         Few  grs.  pepper 

Cut  the  meat  into  small  pieces;  have  the  bones  sawed.  Let  meat  and  bone  soak  in  the 
water  1  hr.  Simmer  in  a  kettle  4  or  5  hrs.  (If  only  raw  meat  is  used,  brown  1/3  of  it  in  a 
frying  pan  with  a  little  fat  of  the  meat.)  About^l  hr.  before  the  stock  is  taken  from  the  fire 
add  the  vegetables,  which  have  been  browned  in  suet  and  seasonings. 

NOTES: 

Use  all  the  trimmings  in  making  soup  stock. 
For  white  stock  use  veal  or  chicken. 

For  brown  stock  use  beef,  part  of  it  browned,  and  the  vegetables  browned. 
Stock  without  vegetables  keeps  best  in  hot  weather. 

Stock  may  be  clarified  by  adding  the  slightly  beaten  white  of  egg  and  shell,  stir,  then 
boil  2  min.,  simmer  20  min.;  remove  scum  and  strain  thru  a  cloth  placed  oA^er  a  fine  strainer. 


[Lesson  4lB] 


STEWING 


[Page  113] 


GENERAL    DIRECTIONS    FOR    STEWING 

Stewing  is  cooking  slowlj-,  a  long  time,  in  a  small  quantity  of  water.  , 

The  object  is  to  retain  part  of  tlie  juice  and  extract  enough  to  give  flavor  to  the  gravy. 

This  is  done  by  cutting  the  meat  into  suitable  pieces  for  serving.  Divide  into  2  portions. 
Add  one  portion  to  cold  water  and  heat  slowly  to  boiling  point.  Meanwhile  sear  the  other 
portion  by  browning  in  a  little  fat  in  a  frying  pan.  Then  add  it  to  the  water  and  meat. 
The  whole  should  then  be  cooked  slowly  for  three  hours,  or  until  the  meat  is  tender. 

Beef,  Mutton,  Lamb  or  Veal  may  be  used,  selecting  the  tough  pieces,  such  as  the  neck, 
shoulder,  lower  part  of  round,  aitch  bone,  etc.  Pieces  of  cold  cooked  meat  may  be  added  to 
the  stew. 

Meat  with  some  bone  and  fat  makes  a  richer  stew  than  the  one  made  with  lean  meat. 

The  pieces  of  meat  are  usually  dredged  with  flour  before  browned.  This  gives  color  to 
the  stew,  a  richer  flavor,  and  also  thickens  the  gravy. 

Onions,  carrots,  turnips,  parsnips  and  potatoes  are  the  vegetables  commonly  used  in 
stews.  Tomatoes,  string  beans  and  green  peas  are  sometimes  used.  The  vegetables  should 
be  cut  into  i/^-inch  cubes,  %-inch  slices  or  strips,  and  added  the  last  hour  of  cooking.  The 
potatoes,  however,  should  be  parboiled  5  minutes,  then  added  to  the  stew,  allowing  20  min- 
utes for  cooking.  The  vegetables  may  be  cooked  separately.  The  usual  seasonings  are  salt 
and  pepper.  Sweet  herbs,  parsley,  a  bit  of  bay  leaf,  one  or  two  cloves,  celery  salt,  or  catsup 
may  be  added  to  give  variety. 


Dumplings  are  often  served  with  stew. 
vegetables  and  cook  ten  minutes. 


Place  them  so  tliey  will  rest  on  the  meat  and 


2  lbs.  beef 

3  tbsp.  flour 
Water 


BEEF  STEW 

1  turnip 

1  carrot 

2  onions,  sliced 


4  potatoes 
Salt  and  pepper 


Prepare  according  to  directions  given  above. 


BEEF  A  LA  MODE 

Insert  12  large  strips  of  salt  pork  fat  or  piece  of  suet  into  a  4-pound  piece  of  round  of 
beef.  Season  witli  salt  and  pepper,  dredge  with  Hour.  Put  a  piece  of  suet  in  a  hot  pan,  brown 
the  meat  on  all  sides  in  this.  Put  in  kettle  with  vegetables  and  water  according  to  recipe 
for  beef  stew,  cover  closely  and  cook  slowly  4  or  5  hours  in  oven  or  on  top  of  range. 


POT  ROAST 

When  beef  is  similarly  prepared  (without  the  strips  of  fat  and  vegetables)  and  cooked  in 
a  smaller  amount  of  water  it  is  called  pot  roast. 


[Page  ll4j  BASIC  PRINCIPLES  OF  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  [Lesson  4SA] 

METHODS  OF  COOKING  MEAT 
Broiling'  is  cooking  by  direct  exposure  to  heat,  over  hot  coals  or  over  a  flame  (gas  flame). 
Cooking  with  little  or  no  fat  in  a  hot  frying  pan  is  called  "Pan  Broiling." 
The  Object  is  to  retain  the  juices. 

The  Method  is  to  expose  the  surfaces  of  the  meat  to  a  hot  Are,  turning  frequently. 
By  turning  frequently,  the  surfaces  are  seared  and  the  juices  retained. 

EXPERIMENTS 

Put  a  piece  of  meat  into  a  wire  broiler,  hold  over  a  flame  one  minute.  What  happens  ? 
The  juice  comes  to  the  top  and  when  turned  the  juice  drops  into  the  fire. 

Put  a  piece  of  meat  into  a  wire  broiler,  hold  over  a  flame  and  count  ten.  Turn,  count 
ten,  and  repeat.     Raise  broiler,  count  ten,  turn.     Repeat.     Cut  and  examine. 

The  tender  cuts  of  beef,  mutton  and  lamb,  and  some  kinds  of  game,  are  used  for  broiling. 

Young  chicken,  small  fish,  lobsters,  and  oysters  may  be  broiled. 

Pork  and  veal  should  not  be  broiled,  as  they  require  long  cooking. 

Dark  meats,  as  beef,  mutton,  etc.,  may  be  cooked  rare. 

Lamb,  chicken,  and  light  meats  should  be  well  done. 

The  best  cuts  for  broiling  are  steaks  from  the  loin  of  beef  (all  between  the  first  rib  and 
rear  end  of  hip  bone).  Example:  Sirloin,  porterhouse,  from  the  top  of  round  and  rump,  and 
the  rib  or  loin  chops  of  mutton  and  lamb. 

The  meat  should  be  cut  "across  the  grain,"  from  %  to  li/^  in.  thick. 

The  dampers  of  the  stove  should  be  open  during  broiling,  so  that  the  smoke,  etc.,  may  be 
carried  to  the  chimney. 

NOTES: 


[Lesson  42B3 


BROlLmG 


tPage  115] 


ft^^'h  ->: 


Broiled  Steak  With  Stuffed  Tomatoes 


TO  BROIL  STEAK 

Wipe  meat  with  a  damp  cloth  and  trim  off  superfluous  fat.  Rub  the  wire  broiler  with  a 
little  of  the  fat.  Place  the  meat  in  broiler  and  broil  over  a  clear  fire,  turning  every  ten  seconds 
for  the  first  minute.     After  the  first  minute,  turn  occasionally  until  well  cooked  on  both  sides. 

TIME. — Steak  an  inch  thick  requires  from  five  to  eight  minutes. 

Steak  may  be  pan  broiled.     See  42A. 

SERVE  WITH  MAITRE  D'HOTEL  BUTTER 

Cream  3  tbsp.  butter:  add  1  tsp.  lemon  juice  gradually,  i^  tsp.  salt,  %  tsp.  pepper  and  V^ 
tbsp.  chopped  parsley. 


Hamburg  Steak  With  Riced  Potatoes 


HAMBURG  STEAK 

Chop  finely  1  lb.  lean  raw  beef;  season  hifrhly  with  salt,  pepper  and  a  few  drops  of  onion 
juice.  Add  %  c.  milk  gradually;  kaead  dough  until  spongy  and  shape  into  cakes.  Heat  a 
frying  pan,  rub  with  the  fat  of  meat  and  pan  broil  the  steaks.  Turn  cakes  often  during  the 
cooking. 

PAN  BROILED  CHOPS 

Heat  the  frying  pan  A^ery  hot.  Trim  the  chops,  remove  the  fat,  and  wipe  the  chops.  Put 
into  frying  pan.  "VSHien  one  side  is  seared,  sear  the  other,  turn  often  the  first  minute.  Cook 
from  6  to  8  min.     Stand  chops  in  the  pan  so  the  edges  may  be  cooked. 

TIME  TABLE  FOR  BROILING 

Steak  1  inch  thick 5  to     8  minutes 

Steak  1%  inch  thick 7  to  12  minutes 

Chickens 20  to  30  minutes 

Squabs 10  to  12  minutes 


tPage  116] 


BASIC  PUmCIPLES  OF  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE 


tLesson  43Aj 


1.  Neck 

2.  Chuck 

3.  Ribs 

4.  Shoulder  clod 

5.  Fore  shank 

6.  Brisket 

7.  Cross  ribs 

8.  Plate 

9.  Navel 

10.  Loin 

11.  Flank 

12.  Rump 

13.  Round 

14.  Second  cut  round 

15.  Hind  shank 

U.   S.  Department  of  Agriculture 


HIND    QUARTER 


ILesson  43B]  PROTEIDS— TISSUE  BUILDERS  [Paga  117] 

METHODS  OF  COOKING  MEAT 

Braising  is  steaming  meat  in  its  ow-  jUices  in  the  oven.  It  is  done  by  the  cooking  of 
meat  with  a  small  amount  of  water  in  the  oven  in  a  tightly  covered  pan  or  kettle.  It  is  a 
combination  of  stewing  and  baking  meiat.  The  meat  should  be  cooked  in  an  oven  at  a  low 
temperature  for  a  long  time.     By  so  doing  tough  pieces  of  meat  become  tender. 

ROLLED  FLANK  OF  BEEF  OR  ROLLED  ROUND  OF  BEEF 

Flank  steak,  or   1  lb.   of  thinly  cut  round  steak. 

2   or   3   small  pieces   of  suet  %   c.   carrot,  cubed 

1  onion  2  c.  stock  or  water 

Wipe  the  meat,  trim  the  edges,  pound  on  both  sides,  spread  with  stuffing,  roll  and  tie. 
Sprinkle  the  roll  with  salt  and  pepper,  dredge  with  flour  and  brown  on  all  sides  in  hot  drip- 
pings and  lay  it  on  the  onion  and  carrot  in  a  pan  with  the  suet  on  top.  Pour  the  water  or 
stock  into  the  pan.     Cover  tightly  and  cook  slowly  in  the  oven  or  on  top  of  the  stove. 

For  round  steak,  cook  slowly,  covered,  for  %  hr.  or  more  in  a  moderate  oven,  then  uncover 
and  cook  %  hr.  i 

For  flank  steak,  cook  slowly,  covered,  for  3  hrs.  or  more  in  a  moderate  oven,  then  ancover 
last  1/^  hr. 

Serve  with  brown  gravy  made  by  thickening  the  liquid  in  the  pan. 

Individual  rolls  may  be  made. 

STUFFING 

2  c.  soft  bread  crumbs  2  tbsp.  celery   (cut)  or  %  tsp. 
2  tbsp,  melted  butter  celery  salt 

2  tbsp.  chopped  parsley  %  tsp.  salt 

1^  tsp.  onion  juice  (if  liked)  i/s  tsp.  pepper 

14  c.  hot  water 


>«i«t8»^cfwei«^»«>i^ 


VEAL  BIRDS 


Wipe  thin  slices  of  veal  cut  from  the  leg  or  shouldbf.  Pound  the  meat  on  both  sides, 
and  cut  into  3  by  31^ -inch  pieces.  Spread  pieces  with  STUFFING,  roll  and  tie,  sprinkle  with 
salt  and  pepper,  dredge  with  flour.  Brown  in  hot  butter.  Put  in  stew  pan,  cover  with  a 
thin  white  sauce  and  cook  slowly  until  tender.  Serve  on  small  circular  or  square  pieces  of 
toast,  cover  with  the  sauce  and  garnish  with  parsley.  The  trimmings  may  be  used  for 
making  a  white  stock,  which  may  be  added  to  the  sauce  or  stuffing. 


[Page  118]  BASIC  PMNCIPLES  OF  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  [Lesson  44A] 

BEEF 

Name  of  Cut  How  to  Prepare  No.  of  Lesson 

LO'IN— Including  all  Sirloin  Cuts Roast 44B 

Broil 42B 

RUMP     Fairly   good    for    broiling 42B 

Back   of  Loin Roast    44B 

"      Stew 41B 

"  " Pot  Roast 41B 

ROUND Braize    4r.B 

"  Beef  a  la  mode   4 IB 

"  Beef    juice 41A 

"  Beef  tea 41A 

"  Fairly   good   for  roasting 44B 

"  ; and  broiling    42B 

PRIME    RIBS ,.  Fine  for  roasting    44B 

BLADE    Fairly   good   for   roasting 44B 

CHUCK Braize     43B 

"  : Pot   roast    41B 

" Stew     41B 


NECK Soup 41A 

" Stew     : 41B 

BRISKET , Corn  or  boil 41B 

CROSS   RIBS    Pot  roast  or  inferior  steak 41B 

PLATE     Corn  or  boil 41B 

NAVEL : Corn  or  boil 4lB 

FLANK Stew     4 1 B 

" Roll  and  braize 43B 

SHIN Soup  AlA 

Skirt  Steak  Stew 41B 

NOTES: 


[Lesson  44B]  ROASTINU  [Page  119] 

PROTEINS— TISSUE  BUILDERS— MEAT 

METHODS  OF  COOKING  MEAT 


Roast  Beef  with  Carrots  in  Turnip  Cups 

ROASTING 

Roasting  is  cooking  by  exposure  to  directF-action  of  dry  heat r  on  a  spit  or  in  an  oven. 

The  object  of  roasting  is  to  retain  the  juices  and  develop  a  special  flavor.  The  tender 
cuts  of  meat  should  be  selected  for  roasting — the  choicest  cuts  being  the  sirloin,  rump,  rib. 
etc.,  of  beef;  the  loin,  leg  and  shoulder  of  lamb,  mutton  or  vealj  the  chine  and  rib  of  poriv, 
Chickens,  turkeys,  geese,  ducks,  etc.,  are  used  for  roasting. 

GENERAL  DIRECTIONS 

I 

Wipe  the  meat  with  a  damp  cloth.  Dredge  the  surface  with  flour,  salt  and  pepper.  Put 
pieces  of  fat  on  the  meat  and  in  the  pan  (melted  fat  may  be  used  and  rubbed  over  the  sur- 
face). Place  meat  on  a  rack  in  the  pan.  Put  into  a  hot  oven.  The  heat  of  the  oven 
should  be  intense  at  first  to  sear  the  surface  (about  10  min.),  and  then  the  heat  should  be 
reduced  and  water  added  to  cover  bottom  of  pan. 

The  meat  should  either  be  covered  closely  or  basted  frequently  with  equal  quantities  of 
fat  drippings  and  water.  After  the  last  basting,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper.  '  Place  meat 
on  a  hot  platter  and  garnish. 

GRAVY 

Pour  fat  from  pan,  allow  2  tbsp.  of  fat  to  3  tbsp.  flour  for  each  cupful  of  gravy.  Put 
fat  into  the  pan,  add  the  flour  and  stir  over  a  hot  fire  until  well  browned;  add  the  boiling 
water  or  stock  gradually;  boil  3  min.;  season  to  taste  with  salt  and  pepper  and  strain. 

TIME  TABLE  FOR  ROASTING 

Beef,  round   per  lb.  12  to  15  min. 

Beef,   ribs    (well   done) per  lb.  12  to  15  min. 

Beef,    ribs     (rare) per  lb.    8  to  10  min. 

Mutton  leg   (well  done) per  lb.  15  min. 

Mutton   leg    (rare) per  lb.  10  min. 

Mutton   loin    (rare) .per  lb.    8  min. 

Mutton  shoulder   (stuff'ed) per  lb.  15  min*. 

Lamb    (well   done) per  lb.  20  min. 

Veal    (well  done) per  lb.  25  min. 

Pork    (well  done) per  lb.  30  min. 

Chicken per  lb.  15  min. 

Goose     per  lb.  18  to  20  min. 

8   lb.    turkey ,  .about  2  hrs. 


[Page  120]  BASIC  ITvINClPLES  OF  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  [Lesson  45A] 

PROTEINS— TISSUE    BUILDERS 

POULTRY 

SELECTING  POULTRY,  select  a  chicken  with  firm  flesh,  yellow  skin  and  legs. 

A  CHICKEN  is  known  by  soft  feet,  smooth  skin  and  soft  cartilage  at  end  of  breastbone. 

A  YOUNG  CHICKEN  lias  an  abundance  of  pin  feathers.     Long  hairs  denote  age. 

Choose  spriii;;;-  chickens  for  broiling.  A  young,  plump  chicken  for  roasting.  A  fowl  for 
stewing. 

TO  DRESS  AND  CLEAN  POULTRY 

Pick  out  the  pin  feathers,  singe  by  removing  hairs  and  down  over  a  flame.  Cut 
oflf  the  head,  using  a  small-pointed  knife.  Cut  through  the  skin  around  the  leg,  1%  in. 
below  the  leg  joint,  care  being  taken  not  to  cut  tendons,  snap  the  bone  and  pull  off  foot. 

Make  a  cut  through  the  skin  below  the  breast  bone  just  large  enough  to  admit  the 
hand.  Keep  the  fingers  close  to  the  breastbone  until  the  heart  and  liver  are  reached,  loosen 
on  eitlier  side  down  toward  the  back.  Loosen  all  membrane  and  remove  entrails,  gizzard, 
heart  and  liver.  The  lungs  and  kidneys  lie  i?P  the  hollow  near  the  backbone  and  between 
the  ribs. 

Cut  off  the  neck  close  to  the  body,  leaving  enough  skin  to  fasten  under  the  back. 
Remove  windpipe  and  the  .crop.  Eemove  oil  bag  and  wash  bird  by  letting  cold  water  run 
through  it.  (Do  not  soak  bird  in  cold  water.  Why?)  Wipe  inside  and  outside  with  a  damp 
cloth. 

TO  CLEAN  GIBLETS 

Cut  the  liver  from  the  gall  bladder;  cut  the  heart  open  and  remove  the  clotted  blood 
Cut  the  outer  coat  of  the  gizzard  and  draw  it  off,  leaving  the  sac  containing  the  sand,  etc. 
Wash  and  cook  in  boiling  salted  water. 

TO  STUFF  POULTRY 

U'se  enough  stuffing  to  fill  the  skin,  that  the  bird  may  look  plump  when  sewed.  Where 
cracker  stufling  is  used,  allowance  must  be  made  for  the  swelling  of  the  crumbs.  Sew  the 
skin  or  use  skewers. 

TO  TRUSS  POULTRY 

Draw  the  thighs  and  wings  close  to  the  body  and  fasten  with  steel  skewers,  or  tie  with 
a  string.     Fasten  the  neck  skin  under  the  back. 

NOTES: 


[Lesson  45Bj 


ROAST  CHICKEN 


[Page  121] 


Roast  Chicken  With  Cranberry  Jelly  and  Glazed  Sweet  Potatoes 


ROAST  CHICKEN 

DRESS,  CLEAN,  STUFF  AND  TRUSS  A  CHICKEN 

Place  on  its  back  on  a  rack  in  a  dripping  pan  (or  on  thin  slices  of  salt  pork  fat  or  chicken 
fat  in  a  pan  a  trille  larger  than  the  chicken).  Rub  the  entire  surface  with  salt  and  spread 
legs  and  breast  with  3  tbsp.  butter  or  melted  chicken  fat  and  3  tbsp.  of  Hour.  Place  in  a 
liot  oven  and  when  flour  is  well  browned,  reduce  tlie  heat  and  baste  every  ten  minutes  if 
not  roasted  in  a  self-basting  pan. 

For  Basting  take  4  tbsp.  of  the  fat  in  the  pan  and  mix  with  one  cup  boiling  water. 

A  4-pound  chicken  requires  about  1^/^  hrs. 

For  the  stuffing  the  chicken  fat  may  be  melted  and  used  in  place  of  the  butter. 


1  c.  cracker  or  bread 

crumbs 
14  c.  melted  butter 


STUFFING  I 

Sage   if   liked 
Vt  tsp.  salt 
Few  grs.  pepper 


Vs  c.  milk  scalded 

1  tsp.  chopped  parsley 


STUFFING  II  (CHESTNUT) 

2  c.  French  chestnuts  1  c.   cracker  crumbs  Few  grs.  pepper 

y^  c.  butter  %  tsp.  salt  %  c.  cream 

Shell  and  blanch  chestnuts.     Cook  in  boiling  salted  water  until  soft.     Drain  and  mash. 

Add   half    the   butter,    salt,   pepper   and   cream.     Melt   remaining   butter,    mix    with   cracker 

crumbs,  then  combine  mixtures. 


1%  c.  dried  bread  crumbs 

6  tbsp.  melted  butter 

Mix  ingredients  in  order  given. 


STUFFING  III 

y^  tsp.  salt 

%  tsp.  cinnamon 


1  c.  apple  sauce 
(Lesson  47B) 


V'z  c.  dried  bread  crumbs 
1  c.  cracker  crumbs 
Mix  in  order  given. 


STUFFING  IV 

y-z   c.  butter 
1  pt.oysters 


Salt   and   pepper 


2  c.  freshly  grated  bread 

crumbs 
1  tsp.  salt 
Mix  in  order  given. 


STUFFING  V 

14  tsp.  pepper 
Sage    (if  liked) 

V3  c.  melted  butter 


1  well  beaten  e| 
Vs  c,  scalded  milk 


[Page  122]  BASIC  PRINCIPLES  OF  DOMESTIC  SaENCE  [Lesson  46A] 

FRYING 

FRYING  means  cooking  in  hot  fat,  deep  enough  to  cover  the  material  to  be  cooked.  The 
fat  used  for  cooking  may  be  Olive  Oil,  Lard,  Beef  Drippings,  Cottolene,  Cotosuet,  Cocoa 
Butter,  Peanut  Oil,  Crisco,  etc. 

A  combination  of  two-thirds  lard  and  one-third  beef  drippings  is  considered  better  than 
lard  alone. 

TO  TRY  OUT  FAT 

Cut  the  fat  into  bits,  put  into  a  pan  in  the  oven  or  over  a  fire  with  enough  cold  water 
to  cover,  and  let  simmer  slowly  for  several  hours.  When  the  fat  is  melted  and  nearly  free 
from  water,  strain  it.  On  cooling  the  fat  will  form  a  cake  on  top  of  any  remaining  water. 
Another  way  is  to  put  the  small  pieces  of  fat  in  the  top  of  a  double  boiler. 

TO  CLARIFY  FAT 

Melt  the  fat,  add  raw  potatoes  cut  in  i/4-in.  slices  and  allow  fat  to  heat  gradually.  When 
fat  ceases  to  bubble  and  potatoes  are  well  browned,  strain  (thru  muslin  or  double  thickness 
of  cheese  cloth  placed  over  a  strainer)  into  a  pan  or  jar. 

POINTS  ABOUT  FRYING 
Fat  should  be  hot  enough  to  form  a  crust  on  the  food  cooked  in  it. 

So  long  as  the  fat  bubbles  it  is  not  hot  enough. 

Anything  that  cools  the  fat  tends  to  make  the  food  greasy. 

Do  not  put  too  much  into  the  fat  at  the  same  time,  as  it  lowers  the  temperature. 

Reheat  the  fat  after  each  frying. 

All  fried  food  should  be  drained  on  soft  paper. 

RULES  FOR  TESTING  FAT  FOR  FRYING 

When  the  fat  begins  to  smoke,  drop  into  it  an  inch  cube  piece  of  bread. 

If  this  browns  in  forty  seconds,  the  fat  is  hot  enough  for  cooked  mixtures — ex.,  cro- 
quettes, codfish  balls,  etc. 

Use  same  test  for  uncooked  mixtures,  allowing  one  minute  for  bread  to  brown;  ex., 
doughnuts,  etc. 

NOTE. — Nearly  all  food  not  containing  eggs  is  dipped  in  eggs  and  crumbs,  flour  or  meal, 
to  protect  it  from  absorbing  fat.  The  heat  of  the  fat  hardens  the  albumen  of  the  egg  and 
forms  a  coating. 


VEAL  CUTLETS  AND  FRENCH  FRIED  POTATOES 
NOTES: 


[Lesson  46B] 


FRYING— CROQUETTES 


[Page  123] 


Left-overs  of  cooked  meat,  fish,  vegetables,  or  macaroni  may  be  used  in  croquettes. 

The  usual  mixture  consists  of  two  parts  of  meat,  etc.,  to  one  part  of  well  seasoned,  thick 
sauce. 

GENERAL  DIRECTIONS 

Cool^  the  mixture.  Use  2  tbsp.  of  mixture  to  each  croquette.  Form  into  balls,  cylinders, 
or  to  imitate  pears,  apples,  etc.,  using  cloves  for  stems  and  for  eyes  if  shaped  into  birds. 

Put  a  heap  of  fine  crumbs  on  a  board  or  large  plate.  (Use  for  crumbing  dried  bread 
crumbs  which  have  been  rolled  and  sifted,  or  stale  bread  crumbs  forced  through  a  colander.) 
Break  an  egg,  add  two  tbsp.  water,  beat  slightly.  Roll  the  shaped  croquette  mixture  in  the 
crumbs,  dip  in  egg  and  then  in  crumbs  again.  Fry  in  smoking  hot  fat  until  a  light  brown 
and  drain  on  soft  paper. 

Place  a  napkin  on  a  hot  platter  and  arrange  the  croquettes  on  it.  Garnish  with  parsley, 
etc.     A  sauce  may  be  served  with  croquettes. 


2  c.  chopped  veal  (cooked) 
y<2.   tsp.  salt. 


Few  drops  onion  juice 
Yolk  1  egg 


%  tsp.  salt 
1  egg  yolk 


VEAL  CROQUETTES 

Few   grs.  cayenne 
1  c.  thick  sauce 
%  tsp.  pepper 

Mix  ingredients  in  order  given.  Cool,  shape,  dip  in  crumbs,  eggs,  and  cruD>bs  again. 
Fry  in  deep  fat.     Chicken  croquettes  may  be  made  in  same  way,  suljstituting  chicken  for  veal. 

THICK  SAUCE 
2^3  tbsp.  butter  Vs  c.  flour  1  c.  liquid 

%  tsp.  salt  Few  grs.  pepper 

(In  making  the  thick  white  sauce  use  either  white  stock  or  milk.)  Follow  directions 
given  in  Lesson  7B. 

POTATO  CROQUETTES 
2  c.  riced  potatoes  8  drops  onion  juice         %  tsp.  pepper 

^  tsp.  celery  salt  1  tsp.  chopped  parsley  2  tbsp.  butter 

Mix  ingredients  in  order  given.  Shape,  dip  in  crumbs,  eggs  and  crumbs  again.  Fry  in  hot 
fat. 

RICE  CROQUETTES 
2  c.  steamed  rice   (Lesson  21B)  Vi  tsp.  salt  Few  grains  paprika 

1  well  beaten  egg  or  2  yolks  Vs  tsp.  pepper  2  tbsp.  chopped 

\y-2   tbsp.  butter  parsley 

Mix  ingredients,  follow  directions.  Sweet  rice  croquettes  may  be  made  by  omitting  the 
pepper,  paprika  and  parsley,  and  adding  2  tbsp.  sugar  and  the  grated  rind  of  y-2  lemon. 

BREADED  VEAL  CUTLETS 

Use  %  inch  thick  slices  of  veal  cut  from  the  leg.  Wipe  meat.  Cook  in  boiling  salted 
water  until  tender.  Remove  bone  and  skin  and  cut  into  pieces  for  serving.  Drain,  sprinkle 
with  salt  and  pepper,  dip  in  crumbs,  eggs,  and  crumbs  again  and  fry  in  hot  deep  fat.  The 
stock  may  be  used  for  sauce  or  soup. 

FRENCH  FRIED  POTATOES 

Wash  and  pare  small  potatoes;  cut  in  eighths  lengthwise,  and  soak  1  hour  in  cold  water. 

Take  from  water,  dry  between  towels,  and  fry  in  deep  fat. 

Drain  on  paper  and  sprinkle  with  salt. 

Do  not  have  the  fat  too  hot,  as  the  potatoes  must  be  cooked. 


[Page  124] 


BASIC  PRESraPLES  OF  DOMESTIC  SaENCE 


[Lesson  47A] 


TABLE  SHOWING  COMPOSITION  OF  MEAT 


Article,  Beef 


Refuse    Proteid 


Fore   quarter    19.8  14.1 

Hind    quarter    16.3  15.3 

Round 8.5  18.7 

Rump     '.  .  ..  18.5  14.4 

Loin    12.6  15.9 

Ribs     20.2  13.6 

Chuck   ribs 13.3  15. 

Tongue    15.1  14.8 

Heart    16. 


Fat 
16.1 
15.6 

8.8 
19. 
17.3 
20.6 
20.8 
15.3 
20.4 


Mineral 
Matter  Water 

49.3 

52. 

63. 

47. 

53.3 

44.9 

50.1 

53.8 

62.6 


PROF.  W.  0.  ATWATER,  Ph.D. 

TIME  TABLE  FOR  BOILING  MEAT  AND  FISH 

Fresh   beef    .'; 4  to  6  hrs. 

Corned  beef,  rib  or  flank,  per  lb.,  25  min , 4  to  7  hrs. 

Corned  beef,  fancy  brisket,  per  lb.,  30  min 5  to  8  hrs. 

Corned  tongue    3  to  4  hrs. 

Ham,  12  to  14  lbs 4  to  5  hrs. 

Leg  or  shoulder  of  lamb 2  to  3  hrs. 

Leg  or  shoulder  of  mutton,  per  lb.,  12  to  20  min 3^  to  5  hrs. 

Turkey,   per   lb 15  to  18  min. 

Fowl,  per  4  lbs 2  to  4  hrs. 

Lobster     25  to  30  min. 

Codfish,  per  lb 6  min. 

Haddock,  per  lb ' 3  min. 

Salmon,  whole  or  thick  piece,  per  lb 10  to  15  min. 

Halibut,  whole  or  thick  piece,  per  lb 15  min. 

Clams     3  to  5  min. 

Oysters 3  to  5  min. 

Fish,  per  lb    10  to  12  min. 

Review  lessons  up  to  date. 


NOTES; 


[Lesson  47B] 


MEAT  SAUCES 


[Page  125] 


GENERAL  DIRECTIONS  FOR  MAKING  SAUCES 

RULE  I 

Mix  an  equal  amount  of  flour  and  water  until  smooth,  then  add  more  cold  water  until 
thin  enough  to  pour.  Add  the  flour  mixture  gradually  to  the  hot  liquid,  stirring  all  the  time 
until  thickened,  add  the  butter  and  seasonings  for  making  sauces  just  before  taking  from 
the  fire.  If  cooked  in  a  double  boiler,  allow  20  min.  for  cooking.  If  boiled,  cook  5  min.  This 
method  does  not  cook  the  butter.    Cooking  butter  renders  it  less  digestible. 

For  a  thin  sauce,  allow  l^^  tbsp.  flour  to  1  c.  hquid. 
For  a  medium  sauce,  allow  2  tbsp.  flour  to  1  c.  liquid. 

RULE  II 

Melt  the  butter,  add  flour  mixed  with  seasonings  and  stir  until  thoroly  mixed.  Pour  on 
gradually  the  hot  liquid,  adding  one-third  at  a  time,  stirring  while  cooking  until  perfectly 
smooth  before  adding  more  liquid.  ' 

RULE  III 

Cream  the  butter,  flour  and  seasonings;  add  to  hot  liquid;  cook,  stirring  all  the  time 
until  perfectly  smooth. 


1  c.  scalded  milk 

2  tbsp.  flour 


WHITE  SAUCE 

2  tbsp.  water 
%  tsp.  salt 


Few  grs.  pepper 
2  tbsp.  butter 


Follow  directions  as  given  above  in  Rule  I. 

THICK  WHITE  SAUCE 


AUow  1/^  c.  flour  to  1  c.  milk. 

%   c.  highlv   seasoned 
white  stock 

Follow  directions. 
Lesson  40B 


BECHAMEL  SAUCE 

Yo  c.  scalded  milk 
1/4  tsp.  salt 
2  tbsp.  flour 

TOMATO  SAUCE 


1-16  tsp.  pepper 
2  tbsp.  butter 


TOMATO  CREAM  SAUCE 

Add  Ya  tsp.  soda  to  Tbmato  Sauce.     Heat,  add  gradually  Y2  c.  scalded  milk. 


BROWN  SAUCE 


2  c.  brown  stock 

1  tsp.  Worcestershire  sauce 


1  tbsp.  butter 

2  £bsp.  flour 


Salt   and   pepper   to   taste. 

Brown  the  butter,  add  the  flour.     Brown  the  two,  stirring  until  smooth;  add  the  stock 
gradually;  cook  and  stir  until  sauce  is  smooth. 


MINT  SAUCE 

1  c.  finely  chopped  mint  leaves  %  c.  vinegar 

2  tbsp.  sugar 

Use  only  the  leaves  and  tender  tips  of  the  mint.  Add  the  sugar  to  the  vinegar.  Wlien 
dissolved,  pour  over  the  mint  and  let  stand  on  the  back  of  the  range  for  thirty  minutes.  If 
the  vinegar  is  very  strong,  add  a  little  water. 


[Page  126]  SASIC  PRINCIPLES  OF  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  [Lesson  48A] 

PROTEINS— TISSUE   BUILDERS 

FISH 

FISH  is  the  animal  food  next  in  importance  to  that  of  meat.  The  fish  flesh  is  less 
stimulating  and  nourishing  than  meat,  but  is  considered  to  be  more  easily  digested. 

Fish  is  classified  into  the  white-fleshed  and  red-fleshed. 

In  the  white-fleshed  fish,  most  of  the  oil  is  secreted  in  the  liver,  while  in  the  red-fleshed 
the  oil  is  distributed  throughout  the  flesh. 

White-Fleshed  Fish. — Examples:  White  Fish,  Haddock,  Cod,  Flounder,  Smelt,  Perch, 
Pickerel,  Sun  Fish,  Croppies,  etc. 

Red-Fleshed  Fish. — Examples:   Salmon,  Shad,  Lake  Trout,  Butter  Fish,  Herring,  etc. 

The  white-fleshed  fish  is  more  easily  digested  than  the  red-fleshed  and  should  therefore 
be  selected  for  invalids,  convalescents  or  those  suffering  from  weak  digestion. 

Fish  should  be  eaten  while  fresh  and  in  season.     Stale  fish  is  poisonous. 

HOW   TO  SELECT  FRESH   FISH 

Select  a  fish  that  has  bright  eyes  and  gills,  shiny  scales,  firm  flesh,  and  is  fr&e  from  a 
disagreeable  odor. 

HOW  TO  CLEAN  FISH 

Remove  the  scales  by  drawing  a  knife  over  the  fish,  beginning  at  the  tail  and  working 
toward  the  head. 

Wipe  the  fish  inside  and  outside  with  a  cloth  wet  in  cold  salted  water,  then  wipe  with  a 
clean  dry  cloth,  kept  for  the  purpose.  Head  and  tail  may  or  may  not  be  taken  off,  according 
to  the  manner  of  cooking. 

HOW  TO  SKIN  A  FISH 

Rub  fingers  witb  salt,  so  that  the  fish  may  be  held  without  slipping. 

Remove  the  fins  along  the  back  with  a  sharp  knife.  Cut  off  a  narrow  strip  of  skin 
the  entire  length  of  the  back.  Loosen  the  skin  from  the  bony  part  of  gills  and  draw  it  off 
very  carefully,  one  side  at  a  time. 

HOW  TO  BONE  A  FISH 

Clean  and  skin;  begin  at  the  tail  and  run  a  sharp  knife  imder  the  flesh  close  to  the 
back,  working  toward  the  head.  Turn  and  repeat  on  the  other  side.  Pick  out  any  small 
bones  that  may  remain. 

METHODS  OF  COOKING  FISH 

Broiling,  baking  and  steaming  are  the  best  methods  for  cooking  fish. 

Fish  suitable  for  broiling  are:  Split  mackerel,  white  fish,  cod,  shad,  trout,  etc.,  sliced 
halibut  and  salmon,  white  smelts  and  small  fish. 

Fish  suitable  for  baking  whole  are:  White  fish,  cod,  haddock,  small  salmon,  shad,  etc. 
Fish  suitable  for  boiling  are:  Salmon,  halibut,  cod,  haddock,  trout,  etc. 
Fish  suitable  for  frying  are  the  white-fleshed.  • 


Boiled  Fish  with  Potato  Balls 


[Lesson  48S] 


DIFFERENT:   WAYS  OF  PREPARIXG  FISH 


[Page  127] 


BAKED  FISH 

Select  a  fish  weighing  from  2^  to  4  lbs.     Bake  with  or  without  filling. 

Clean  and  wipe  the  fish.  Rnb  the  inside  with  salt.  Fill  with  stuffing  (Lesson  49B.)  and 
sew  together.  Cut  diagonal  gashes  l^j  inches  apart  on  both  sides  of  the  fish,  and  place  a 
strip  of  bacon  or  salt  pork  fat  in  each  gash. 

Brush  with  melted  butter,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  dredge  with  flour,  tie  in  the 
shape  of  a  letter  S  and  bake  on  a  baking  sheet  or  strips  of  cotton  cloth  (so  that  it  may  be 
easily  removed  from  pan)  in  a  dripping  pan.  ^ATien  the  flour^is  browned  baste  the  fish  once 
in  ten  minutes.  Cook  imtil  the  flesh  is  firm  and  separates  easily  from  the  bone.  Wlien 
cooked,  slip  onto  a  hot  platter,  garnish  with  fried  gelatine  or  parsley  and  lemon  cut  into 
fancy  shapes.     Serve  with  tomato  sauce   (Lesson  40B). 

FRIED  FISH 

Clean  and  wipe  the  fish.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  roll  in  corn  meal,  flour  or  crumbs, 
dip  in  eggs  and  crumbs  again  (Lesson  46A).  Cook  in  deep  hot  fat;  drain  on  soft  paper. 
Serve  on  a  hot  dish. 

SAUTED  FISH 
Prepare  fish  as  for  frying  and  cook  in  a  small  amount  of  fat  in  a  frying  pan. 


BOILED  FISH 

Clean  and  wipe  the  fish;  tie  in  a  cheese  cloth  to  hold  the  fish  together  and  to  prevent  the 
scum  from  adhering  to  the  fish.  Place  the  fish  on  a  rack  or  frying  basket  to  keep  the 
shape  and  to  make  it  easier  to  remove  from  the  water.  Cook  gently  in  enough  boiling 
salted  acidulated  water  to  cover  the  fish,  using  2  tsp.  salt  and  2  tbsp.  vinegar  to  each  quart  of 
water.  The  salt  gives  flavor  and  the  vinegar  or  lemon  juice  keeps  the  flesh  white.  Allow 
about  15  minutes  to  the  pound.  The  fish  is  cooked  when  the  flesh  is  firm  and  separates  easily 
from  the  bone. 

Remove  from  water,  take  off  the  cheese  cloth,  put  on  a  hot  platter,  and  serve  with  Hol- 
landaise  Sauce  (Lesson  49B). 

BROILED  FISH 

Clean  and  wipe  the  fish;  remove  head  and  tail  and  split  down  the  back.  If  a  thick  fish 
is  used,  cut  into  slices. 

Grease  a  wire  broiler,  lay  in  the  fish  and  cook  over  a  clear  fire,  cooking  the  flesh  side 
first.  Turn  it  and  cook  the  skin  until  crisp.  Sliced  fish  should  be  turned  often  while  broil- 
ing. Fish  is  cooked  when  flesh  is  firm.  Slip  onto  a  hot  platter,  season  with  salt,  pepper  and 
butter  and  lemon  juice,  if  liked. 

NOTES: 


[Page  128] 


BASIC  PRINCIPLES  OF  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE 


[Lesson  49A] 


From  the  U.  S.  Department  of  Agriculture. 

Farmers'  Bulletin  No.  85.     By  C.  F.  Langworthy,  Ph.  D. 


TABLE  I.— Composition  of  fish,  moUusks,  crustaceans,  etc. 


KIND  OF  FOOD 
MATERIAL 


Refuse 
(bone, 
skin, 
etc.) 


Salt. 


Water 


Protein 
by  Factor 
N  X  6.25) 


Fat 


Carbo- 
hydrates 


Ash  or 
Mineral 
Matter 


Total 
Nutri- 
ents 


Fresh  Fish 

Alewife,  whole 

Bass,  large  -  mouthed 

black,  dressed 

Bass,  large  -mouthed 

black,  whole 

Bass,  small- mouthed 

black,  dressed 

Bass,  small -mouthed 

black,  whole 

Bass,  sea,  dressed 

Bass,  sea,  whole 

Bass,  striped,  dressed.  . . 

Blackfish,  dressed 

Bluefish,  dressed 

Butterfish,  dressed 

Butterfish,  whole 

Carp  (European  analy-. 

sis) 

Cod,  dressed 

Cod,  steaks 

Cusk,  dressed 

Eel,  salt-water,  dressed. . , 
Flounder,    common 

dressed 

Flounder,        winter,  . 

dressed..' 

Hake,  dressed 

Haddock,  dressed 

Halibut,  dressed 

Herring,  whole 

Mackerel,  dressed 

Mackerel ,       S  pa  n  i  s  h  , 

dressed 

Mackerel,      Spanish, 

whole 

Mullet,  dressed 

Mullet,  whole 

Perch,  white,  dressed. . . . 

Perch,  white,  whole 

Perch,  yellow,  dressed. . . 

Pickerel,  dressed 

Pickerel,  whole 

Pollock ,  dressed 

Pompano,  whole 

Porgy,  dressed 

Porgy,  whole 

Red  grouper,  dressed. . . . 
Red  snapper,  dressed .... 
Salmon,  California  (sec- 
tions)   

Salmon,  Maine,  dressed  . 

Shad,  dressed 

Shad,  whole 

Shad,  roe 

Smelt,  whole 

Sturgeon,  dressed 

Tomcod,  dressed 

Tomcod,  whole 

Trout,  brook,  dressed.  . . 

Trout,  brook,  whole 

Trout,  lake,  dressed 

Turbot,  dressed 

Turbot,  whole 

Weakfish,  dressed 

Weakfish,  whole 

Whitefish,  dressed 

Whitefish,  whole 

General  average  of  f  resih 
fish  as  sold 


Per  cent. 
49.5 


56.0 

46.4 

53.6 
46.8 
56.1 
51.2 
55.7 
48.6 
34.6 
42.8 

37.1 
29.9 
9.2 
40.3 
20.2 

57.0 

56.2 
52.2 
51.0 
17.7 
42.6 
40.7 

24.4 

34.6 
49.0 
57.9 
54.6 
62.5 
35.1 
35.9 
47.1 
28.5 
45.5 
53.7 
60.0 
55.9 
45.3 

10.3 
23.8 
43.9 
50.1 


Per  cent. 


41.9 
14.4 
51.4 
53.9 
37.9 
48.1 
37.5 
39.5 
47.7 
41.7 
51.9 
43.6 
53.5 

41.6 


Per  cent. 
37.6 


34.6 

40.1. 

34.7 
42.2 
34.8 
37.4 
35.0 
40.3 
45,8 
40.1 

48.4 
58.5 
72.4 
49.0 
57.2 

35.8 

37.0 
39.5 
40.0 
61.9 
41.7 
43.7 

51.4 

44.5 
38.2 
31.5 
34.4 
28.4 
50.7 
51.2 
42.2 
54.3 
39.5 
34.6 
29.9 
35.0 
43.7 

57.9 
51.2 
39.6 
35.2 
71.2 
46.1 
67.-4 
39.6 
32.7 
48.4 
40.4 
44.4 
43.1 
37.3 
46.1 
38.0 
39.4 
32.5 

44.6 


Per  cent . 
9.8 

10.3 

8.5 

11.7 

10.1 

10.5 

.     8.7 

8.8 

8.4 
10.0 
11.8. 
10.3 


11.1 
17.0 
10  1 
14.8 

6.4 

6.3 
7.3 
8.4 
15.3 
11.2 
11.6 

16.3 

14,1 
9.9 
8.2 
8.8 
7.3 
12.8 
12.0 
9.9 
15.4 
10.3 
8.6 
7.4 
8.5 
10.6 

16.7 
15.0 
10.6 

9.4 
23.5 
10.1 
15.1 

8.4 

6.9 
11.9 

9.9 
11.0 

8.9 

7.7 
10.4 

8.6 
12.8 
10.6 

10.9 


Per  cent 
2.4 

.5 

.4 

1.3 

1.1 

.2 

.2 
2.2 

.5 

.6 
7.2 
6.3 

.7 
0.2 

.5 

■     .1 

7.2 


.2 

.3 

.2 

4.4 

3.9 

3.5 

7.2 

6.2 

2.4 

2.0 

1.8 

1.5 

.7 

.2 

.2 

.6 

4.3 

2.4 

2.1 

.2 

.3 

14.8 
9.5 
5.4 
4.8 
3.8 
1.0 
1.6 
.3 
.2 
1.3 
1.1 
6.2 
8.7 
7.5 
1.3 
1.1 
3.6 
3.0 

2.4 


Per  cent. 


Per  cent 
0 


1.2 


.5 
.5 

.4 
.9 
.7 
.6 
i  1 
.5 
.7 
.6 
.5 
.7 


.7 

1.5 

1.0 

1.2 

.5 

.4 

.7 

.6 

.7 

.8 

.7 

.7 


Per  C3nt 
13.0 

11,4 

9.4 

13.7 


11.8 
11.4 

9.5 
11.5 

9.4 
11.3 
19.7 
17.2 

14.5 
12.1 
18.5 
10.7 
22.8 

7.3 

7.0 
8.1 
9.2 
20.6 
16.0 
15.8 

24.7 

21  3 
12.9 

8.9 
11.1 

9.2 
14.4 
12.9 
10.7 
17.1 
15.1 
11.7 
10.1 

9.2 
11.6 

32.4 
25.4 
16.8 
14.9 
28.8 
12.1 
17.9 
9.2 
7.5 
13.9 
11.6 
17.9 
18.4 
15.9 
12.4 
10.3 
17.3 
14.3 

14.0 


NOTES: 


[Lesson  49B]  FISH   SAUCES  [Page  129] 


DRAWN  BUTTER  SAUCE 

2  c.    boiling    water  4  tbsp.  flour 

Yz  c.  butter  %  tsp.  pepper 

Y2  tsp.  salt 

Melt  half  the  butter,  add  the  flour.     Stir  while  adding  the  boiling  water  gradually.     Boil 

5  minutes.     Add  the  seasonings  and  remaining  butter. 

CAPER  SAUCE 

Add  %  c.  capers,  drained,  to  drawn  butter  sauce. 

EGG  SAUCE 

Add  two  "hard  cooked"  eggs,  finelj  chopped,  to  drawn  butter  sauce. 

HORSERADISH  SAUCE 

To  serve  with  salmon: 

6  tbsp.  grated  horseradish  i/^  tsp.  sugar 

2  tbsp.  vinegar  Few  grs.  cayenne 

1/4  tsp.  salt  y2  c.  thick  slightly  sour  cream 

Mix  ingredients  except  cream.  Beat  cream  until  stiff.  Combine,  beat  until  thoroly  mixed 
and  serve. 

HOLLANDAISE  SAUCE  I 

2  tbsp.  butter  1  c.  fish  stock 

2  tbsp.  flour  2  yolks 

Salt  and  pepper  2  tbsp.  lemon  juice 

Melt  the  butter,  add  the  flour.  Stir  while  gradually  adding  the  fish  stock  (water  in  which 
the  fish  has  been  cooked).  Boil  6  minutes.  Remove  from  fire,  pour  some  of  the  mixture  over 
the  slightly  beaten  yolks;  pour  this  back  into  the  sauce.  Beat  and  add  the  lemon  juice  and 
seasonings.     Do  not  reheat. 

HOLLANDAISE  SAUCE  II 

%   c.  butter  %  tbsp.  vinegar  or  1/4  tsp.   salt 

Yolks  2   eggs  1  tbsp.  lemon  juice  %  c.  hot  water 

Vs  tsp.  paprika 

Cream  the  butter,  add  the  yolks  and  beat  thoroly.  Then  add  the  lemon  juice,  salt,  paprika 
and  hot  water.  Cook  in  a  double  boilor,  stirring  constantly  until  like  thick  cream.  Remove 
from  fire  and  beat  with  a  Dover  egg  beater  about  5  minutes. 


FISH  STUFFING 

1  c.  crumbs   (bread  or  %  tsp.  celery  salt 

crackers  or  half  and  half)  i/g  tsp.  pepper 

1/4  c.  melted  butter  (Few  drops  onion  juice,  if  liked) 

%  tsp.  salt  1/4   c.  water 

Mix  ingredients  in  order  given.    If  a  dry  filling  is  desired,  the  water  may  be  omitted. 

Three  tbsp.  catsup,  chopped  parsley,  capers,  pickles,  or  oysters  may  be  added. 


[Page  130] 


BASIC  PRINCIPLES  OF  DOMESTIC  SQENCE 


[Lesson  50A] 


TABLE  I.— Composition  of  fish,  moUusks,  etc.— Cont. 


EIND  OF  FOOD 
MATERIAL 


Refuse 
(bone, 
skin, 
etc.) 


Salt 


Water 


Protein 
by  Factor 

(Nx6.25) 


Fat 


Carbo- 
hydrates 


Ash  or 
Mineral 
Matter 


Total 
Nutri- 
ents 


Fuel 
Value 
per  lb. 


Preserved  Fish 

Mackerel,  No.  1,  salted.  .  . 
Cod,  salted  and  dried .... 
Cod,       boneless      codfisl 

salted  and  dried 

Caviar 

Herring,     salted,     smoked 

and  dried 

Haddock,   salted,   smoked 

and  dried    

Halibut,     salted,    smoked 

and  dried    

Sardines,  canned 

Salmon,  canned 

Mackerel,  canned? 

Mackerel,  salt,  canned.. 

Tunny. canned 

Haddock,  smoked,  cooked 

and  canned 


Per  cent 


19.7 
24.9 


44.4 

32.2 

7.0 
6.0 
14.2 


Mollusks 

Oysters,  solids 

Oysters,  in  shell 

Oysters,  canned 

Scallops 

Long  clams,  in  shell 

Long  clams,  canned 

Round  clams,  removed 
from  shell 

Round  clams,  in  shell 

Round  c'ams,  canned 

Mussels 

General  average  of  mol- 
lusks       (exclusive        of 

canned) 

a  Including  salt. 

Crustaceans 

Lobster,  in  shell 

Lobster,  canned 

Crawfish,  in  shell 

Crabs,  in  shell 

Crabs,  canned 

Shrimp,  canned 

Fresh  abalone 

Canned  abalone,  flesh 

Canned  abalone,  liquid  in 
can 


41.9 


67.6 
'46!7' 

59.4 
61.7 


86.6 
52.4 


Dried  abalone 

General  average  of  crus- 
taceans      (exclusive      of 

canned  and  dried 

Terrapin,  Turtle,  etc. 

Terrapin,  in  shell 

Green  turtle,  in  shell 

Average  of  turtle  and 
terrapin 

Frogs'  legs 

General  average  of  fish, 
mollusks,  crustaceans, 
etc 


50.2 


75.4 
76.0 


75.6 
32.0 


45.0 


Per  cent 


8.3 
17.3 


21.5 


6.5 

1.4 

12.0 


1.9 
8.3 


5.6 


Per  cent, 

34.8 
40.2 

54.4 
38.1 

19.2 

49.2 

46.0 
53.6 
56.8 
68.2 
34.8 
72.7 

68.7 


88. 3 
16.1 
83,4 
80  3 
49.9 
84,5 

SO.  8 
28  0 
82.9 
44.9 


30.7 
77.8 
10.9 
36.7 
80.0 
70.8 
72.8 
73.2 

93.8 
39.7 


37.8 


18.3 
19.2 


18.8 
56.9 


Per  cent. 


13.9 
19.0 


26.3 
30.0 


15.8 

19.3 
23.7 
19.5 
19.6 
13.9 
21.7 

22.3 


6  0 
1.2 
8.8 
14.8 
5  0 
9.0 

10  6 
2.1 

10.5 
4.6 


6.9 

18.1 
2.1 
7,9 

15.8 


Farmers'  Bulletin  No.  85.   By  C.  F.  Langworthy,  Ph.  D. 
From  the  U.  S.  Department  of  Agriculture. 


4.4 
36.0 


9.5 


5.2 

4.7 


4.9 
10.5 


'^.1 


Per  cent. 


21.2 
.4 


.3 

19.7 


.1 

14.0 
12  1 
7  5 
8.7 
21  2 
4.1 

2.3 


1   1 
.1 

.8 


.7 

1.1 

.1 

.9 

1.5 

1,0 

.3 

.1 

.1 
.5 


Per  cent. 


Per  c^nt.  Per  cent. 


3.3 

.7 
3.9 
3.4 
11 
2.9 

5  2 
1.4 
3  0 
2.2 


.2 
20.9 


1.0 


2.1 
1.2 


1.0 

1.9 
5.3 
a2.0 
1.3. 
2.1 
1.7 

1.6 


1.1 
.4 
1.5 
1.4 
1.5 
2.3 


2.8 
1.0 


1.5 
2.9 


37.2 
20.6 

28.3 
61.9 

00.2 

16.9 

35.2 
41.1 
29.0 
29.6 
37.2 
27.5 

26.2 


11.7 
2.5 

16.6 

19.7 
8.2 

15.5 

19.2 
4.6 

17.1 
8.4 


7.6 
22.2 

2.6 
10.9 
20.0 
29.2 
27.2 
26.8 

6.2 
60.3 


12.0 


6.3 
5.1 


5  7 
11  3 


Calories 


1,107 
363 

490 
1,479 

726 

290 

916 
916 
658 
708 
1,107 
558 

499 


222 
41 
327 
336 
136 
268 

331 

68 
277 
150 


141 
381 
45 
191 
358 
503 
501 


93 
1,079 


220 


132 
91 


111 
196 


NOTES; 


[Lesson  50B] 


DIFFERENT   \^AYS  OF  PREPARING  FISH 


[Page  131] 


1  c.  salt  codfish 

4  medium  sized  potatoes 


%  tbsp, 
1  ege 


FISH  BALLS 
butter 


l^  tsp.  pepper 


Wash  fish  in  cold  water,  and  pick  into  small  pieces.  Wash,  pare  and  cut  potatoes  in 
14-iiich  slices.  Cook  potatoes  and  codfish  in  boiling  water  to  cover,  until  potatoes  are  soft. 
Drain  off  every  drop  of  water,  return  to  kettle,  mash;  add  butter,  egg  well  beaten,  and 
pepper.  Beat  with  a  fork  two  minutes.  Drop  by  spoonfuls  into  smoking  hot  fat.  Fat  should 
be  very  hot.     Serve  with  White  Sauce    (see  Lesson  47B). 

FISH  CROQUETTES 

To  1  c.  cold  flaked  fish,  add  %  c.  or  more  of  thick  white  sauce  (see  Lesson  47B).  Season 
with  salt  and  pepper  (lemon  juice  and  onion  juice  if  liked).  Cool,  shape  into  cutlets,  etc., 
roll  in  crumbs,  egg  and  crumbs  again  and  fry  in  deep  fat.      (Lesson  46A.) 


TURBAN   OF  FISH 


Lemon  juice 

%  c.  buttered  crumbs 


2  c.  cold  flaked  fish  Va   tsp.   salt 

1  c.  white  sauce  Few  grs.  of  pepper 

Put  a  layer  of  fish  or.  a  buttered  dish,  season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  lemon  juice. 
Cover  with  sauce,  continuing  with  layers  of  fish  and  sauce  until  all  are  used,  shaping  in 
pyramid  form.  Cover  with  buttered  crumbs  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  until  crumbs  are  brown. 
Arrange  a  potato  border  around  the  mound  of  fish.  Brush  with  beaten  egg  (diluted). 
Bake  in  oven  until  a  golden  brown. 


^ 


SALMON  LOAF 


%  lb.  canned  salmon  or  1  lb.  feresh  salmon 
2  tbsp.  melted  butter 
2  yolks  eggs 
%   tsp.  salt 
l^  tsp.  pepper 


Yo  c.  scalded  milk 

1  tbsp.  lemon  juice  (if  liked) 

1  tsp.  chopped  parsley 
%  c.  soft  crumbs 

2  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  eggs 


Remove  the  bones  from  the  salmon.  Add  melted  butter,  beaten  yolks,  salt,  pepper, 
milk,  lemon  juice  and  parsley  to  the  crumbs.  Add  mixture  to  the  salmon.  Fold  in  the 
stiffly  beaten  whites  and  steam  one  hoiir  in  a  wpH  buttered,  crumbed  and  closely  covered  mold. 


[Page  132]  BASIC  PRINaPLES  OF  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  [Lesson  51A] 


SHELL  FISH 

The  shell  fish  commonly  used  are  03'sters,  clams  and  scallops.  Lobster,  shrimp,  and  crabs, 
altho  crustaceans,  are  usually  called  shell  fish. 

AN  OYSTER  has  two  shells.  The  one  on  which  the  oyster  lies  is  deeper  and  rounder 
than  the  one  that  covers  it.  The  oyster  has  two  strong  muscles,  one  to  open  the  shell  to 
take  in  food  and  water,  and  the  other  to  close  it. 

The  body  is  composed  of  the  liver  (containing  glycogen,  animal  starch)  surrounded  by 
fluted  layers,  called  gills. 

Oysters  are  five  years  old  before  suitable  for  eating.  They  are  in  season  from  September 
to  May.  They  have  about  the  same  composition  as  milk.  They  are  nutritious  and  of  easy 
digestibility. 

According  to  Stutzer,  14  oysters  contain  the  same  amount  of  nourishment  as  one  egg — 223 
oysters,  as  one  povind  of  beef.  One  qt.  of  oysters  is  equal  to  1  qt.  of  milk  in  the  amount  of 
nourishment  contained.  Raw  oysters  are  more  easily  digested  than  cooked,  but  cooking 
destroys  dangerous  germs  that  may  be  present. 

The  proteid  in  oysters  is  very  delicate  so  that  they  should  not  be  cooked  too  long  nor  at 
too  high  a  temperature. 

HOW  TO  OPEN  OYSTERS 

Force  a  thin,  sharp  knife  under  the  back  of  the  shell  that  covers  the  oyster  (the  flatter 
of  the  two)  and  push  forward  until  it  cuts  the  muscle.  Remove  the  top  shell  and  separate 
the  oyster  from  the  under  shell. 

HOW  TO  CLEAN  OYSTERS 

Drain  off  the  liquid  of  the  oyster  thru  a  wire  strainer  placed  over  a  bowl.  Pour  over 
oysters  cold  water,  using  %  c.  to  1  qt.  of  oysters.  Keep  the  liquor  in  the  bowl.  With  the 
fingers  examine  each  oyster  separately  to  see  that  no  bits  of  shell  are  left  clinging  to  them. 

CLAMS  rank  next  to  oysters  in  food  value.  Little  neck  clams  are  served  at  dinner  when 
Blue  Points  are  not  in  season.  At  the  beach,  clams  are  sometimes  cooked  with  seaweed  over 
the  fire.  This  is  called  a  clam  bake.  Clam  chowder,  which  is  a  stew,  is  a  typical  New- 
England  dish. 

Scallops.  The  central  muscle  forms  the  edible  part.  They  are  in  season  from  October 
to  April. 

LOBSTERS,  CRABS,  SHRIMPS 

Their  fiesh  is  similar  in  composition  to  that  of  other  fish,  but  is  tough  and  difficult  to 
digest. 

Lobster. — The  portions  of  lobster  not  edible  are  the  lungs,  stomach  and  intestinal  vein. 

Crabs  are  in  season  during  the  spring  and  summer. 

Shrimps  are  in  season  from  May  to  October.  Always  remove  the  intestinal  vein  from 
the  shrimp.     It  looks  like  a  black  thread  along  the  entire  length. 


[Lesson  51B]  OYSTERS  [Page  133] 

OYSTERS  ON  THE  HALF  SHELL 

Serve  the  oysters  on  the  deep  halves  of  the  shells,  allowing  six  to  each  person.  Arrange 
shells  on  crushed  ice  on  plates,  small  ends  toward  the  center.  Place  a  quarter  of  a  lemon 
in  the  middle  of  each  plate. 

OYSTER  STEW 

1  pt.  oysters  3  tbsp.  butter  i/s  tsp.  pepper   (celery  salt 

1  qt.  scalded  milk  %  tbsp.  salt  if  liked) 

Clean  the  oysters  (Lesson  51A),  heat  the  liquor  to  boiling  point,  strain  through  double 
thicknesses  of  cheese  cloth.  Add  salt,  pepper  and  oyster  liquor  to  the  scalded  milk.  Heat  to 
boiling  point,  reduce  heat  slightly,  add  the  oysters  and  cook  until  the  edges  begin  to  curl. 
Add  the  butter  and  serve. 

CREAMED  OYSTERS 

1   c.  oysters  1   c.  white   sauce    (Lesson  47B) 

%   tsp.   celery   salt 

Clean  the  oysters,  add  the  oysters  to  the  hot  white  sauce  and  cook  until  the  edges  begin 
to  curl.     Serve  on  toast,  in  timbale  cases,  patty  shells,  etc. 

SCALLOPED    OYSTERS    (See   Lesson    12B) 

FRIED  OYSTERS 

Clean  the  oysters,  lay  them  on  a  clean  cloth  and  pat  them  gently  to  dry  them.  Season 
with  salt  and  pepper.  Dip  the  oysters  in  cracker  or  bread  crumbs,  egg  and  crumbs  again 
(see  Lesson  46A).  Fry  in  deep,  hot  fat,  using  90  seconds  test,  drain  the  same  on  soft  paper. 
Serve  on  a  folded  napkin  and  garnish  with  parsley. 

VEGETABLE  OYSTER  STEW     (See  Lesson  11) 

Scrape  salsify  roots — keep  under  water.  Cut  into  thin  slices.  Cook  until  soft  in  1  qt. 
water  to  which  has  been  added  1  tbsp.  of  vinegar  and  1  tsp.  salt.  Rub  thru  a  sieve,  add  to 
1  qt.  thickened  milk.     Season  with  salt  and  pepper.     Serve. 

NOTES: 


[Page  134]  BASIC  PRLNCli'J.Eb  01   DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  [Lesaon  52A] 

PROTEIN  SPARERS— GELATINE 

A  PROTEIN  SPARER 

GELATINE  is  obtained  from  cleaned  bones,  skin  and  connective  tissues  of  animals. 
These  are   cooked   in   boiling  water  for   a   long   time,  thereby   extracting  the   gelatinous 
substances. 

COMMERCIAL  GELATINE  is  prepared  by  treating  the  connective  tissues,  etc.,  vs^ith  a 
weak  solution  of  caustic  lye  kept  at  a  moderate  temperature  ten  days,  then  raised  to  a  higher 
temperature,  the  lye  drained  off,  the  tissues,  etc.,  rinsed  in  clear  water,  purified  with  sulphur 
and  again  thoroly  washed.  The  tissues  are  drained  thoroly,  melted  over  steam  and  the 
liquid  gelatine  strained  off  and  poured  into  thin  layers  to  cool.  Gelatine  is  also  made  from 
fish  bones.  The  purest  form  of  gelatine  called  ISINGLASS,  is  made  from  the  air-bladder  of 
the  sturgeon. 

Gelatine  is  highly  nutritious.  It  is  composed  of  carbon,  hydrogen,  oxygen,  and  nitrogen, 
and  so  has  the  composition  of  a  protcid  food  but  is  not  a  tissue  builder.  It  is  called  a 
PROTEID-SPARER.     Its  power  as  a  proteid- sparer  is  about  twice  that  of  a  carbohydrate. 

Gelatine  is  very  easily  digested.  It  is  digested  by  the  pepsin  of  the  gastric  juices  in 
the  stomach,  and  by  the  trypsfn  of  the  pancreatic  juices  in  the  smaller  intestines. 

Gelatine  is  not  soluble  in  cold  water. 

Gelatine  is  soluble  in  HOT  water. 

Gelatine  should  not  be  cooked  in  boiling  liquid,  as  it  will  not  solidify  on  cooling. 

GENERAL  RULES 

Use  two  tbsp.  granulated  gelatine  to   3%   cups  liquid. 

Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water  20  minutes.  Dissolve  gelatine  in  boiling  water,  by  pouring  the 
boiling  water  onto  the  soaked  (hydrated)  gelatine;  or  gelatine  may  be  dissolved  by  placing 
the  soaked  gelatine  over  boiling  water.    Do  not  stir  much  while  it  is  dissolving. 

Be  sure  that  all  the  gelatine  is  dissolved  before  adding  fruit  juices,  then  add  fruit  juices, 
sugar,  and  a  few  grains  of  salt,  strain  thru  a  fine  cloth,  put  in  a  cool  place  or  on  ice  to 
harden.  Takes  4  or  5  hours  to  harden  in  a  refrigerator,  2  hours  on  ice.  More  gelatine  may 
be  used,  and  then  it  takes  less  time  for  it  to  harden. 

Remove  gelatine  from  mold  by  putting  mold  into  a  pan  of  warm  water,  imtil  the  jelly 
loosens.     Place  inverted  on  serving  dish. 

MEAT  JELLIES 

Gelatine  may  be  combined  with  cooked,  sliced  or  ground,  seasoned  meat. 

Example:  Jellied  veal  or  chicken.  If  a  knuckle  of  veal  or  fowl  is  cooked  long  enough 
and  the  stock  reduced  to  about  %  cup  from  4  lb.  of  meat  and  bone,  there  is  enough  gelatine 
extracted  to  mold  the  loaf  without  adding  extra  gelatine. 

NOTES: 


[Lesson  52B] 


GELATINE   DESSERTS 


[Page  135] 


'     LEMON  JELLY 

2  tbsp.  granulated   gelatine        2  to  2\:^  c.  boiling  water  Rind   1   lemon 

14  c.  COLD  water  1  c.  sugar  i^  c.  lemon  juice 

Soak  gelatine  20  minutes  in  cold  water,  then  dissolve  in  boiling  water. 

Add  sugar,  the  lemon  juice  and  rind,  strain  into  a  mold  and  chill. 

Beating  the  lemon  jelly  while  it  is  jelly-like  with  a  Dover  egg-beater  will  make  it  white 
and  fluffy. 

Orange,  Raspberry,  or  other  fruit  jelly  may  be  made  in  the  same  way  using  %  c.  of  the 
fruit  juice  with  lemon  juice  to  taste. 

SNOW  PUDDING 

May  be  made  by  preparing  one-half  the  recipe  of  LEMON  JELLY.  When  mixture  begins 
to  jelly,  beat  with  a  Dover  egg-beater  until  frothy,  add  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  three 
eggs  and  continue  beating  imtil  stiff  enough  to  hold  its  shape.  Serve  this  with  custard 
sauce    (Lesson  14B).     The  whites  may   oe  omitted. 


PUDDING  A  LA  MACEDOINE 


Prepare  lemon  jelly  mixture.  Place  a  mold  in  pan  of  ice  water,  pour  in  mixture  %  inct 
deep.  When  firm,  decorate  with  fruit.  Cover  fruit  with  some  of  the  lemon  jelly  mixture. 
When  firm,  add  more  fruit  and  mixture.  Repeat  until  all  is  used,  each  time  allowing  mixture 
to  stiffen  before  fruit  is  added.     Oranges,  bananas,  dates,  figs,  etc.,  may  be  used. 

NOTE. — The  coloring  tablet  found  in  the  gelatine  packages  may  be  used  to  color  the 
jelly  mixtures,  altho  fruit  juices  may  be  used  to  give  the  desired  color. 

NOTES: 


[Page  136] 


BASIC  PRINCIPLES  OF  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE 


[Lesson  53-A] 


TEXI  CENTS  WILL  PURCHASE: 


From  Farmer's  Bull  :tin  No.  142. 
U.  S.  Department  of  Agriculture. 


KIND  OF  FOOD  MATERIAL 

Price 

prr 

Pound 

Total 
Weight  of 

Food 
Material 

Protein 

Fat 

Carbohy- 
drates 

Energy 

Cents 
25 
16 
1? 

5 
25 
16 
20 
12 
22 
12 
10 
18 

7 
12 
25 
18 
20 
25 
30 
24 
16 
16 

3i 

3 

3 

21 

2§ 

-ii 

7J 

4 

8 

5 

4 

5 

5 

2h 

5 
10 

H 

1 

i 

1 

n 

7 
6 
7 
6 

Pounds 
0.40 
0.63 
0,83 
2  00 
0.40 
0.63 
0.50 
0.83 
0.45 
0.83 
1.00 
0.56 
1.43 

.    0.83 
0.40 
0.56 
0.50 
0.40 
0.33 
0.42 
0.63 
0.63 
2.85 
3.33 
3.33 
4.00 
4.00 

1  33 
1.33 

2  50 
1  25 
2.00 
2.50 
2.00 
2.00 
4.00 
2.00 
1.00 
6.67 

10.00 
13  33 
10  00 
6.67 
1.43 
1.67 
1.43 
1.67 

Pounds 
0.06 
0.11 
0.13 
0.29 
0.10 
0.08 
0.07 
0.11 
0.06 
0.02 
0.11 
0.08 
0  22 
0  18 
0.02 
0.10 
0,01 

Pounds 
0.06 
0.08 
0.08 
0.23 
0.03 
0.17 
0.07 
0.19 
0.14 
0.68 

Pounds 

Calories 
410 

560 

595 

1530 

315 

Mutton  chops,  loin 

890 

445 

1035 

735 

2950 

220 

0  02 
0  01 
0.10 

265 

465 

•  760 

0.01 

90 

0.01 
0.40 
0.32 
0.27 
0.04 
0.06 
0.20 
0.11 
0.13 
0.03 
0.04 
0.07 
0.02 
0.09 
0.16 

225 

Butter 

1705 

Do 

1365 

Do 

1125 

0.05 
0.07 
0.16 
0.09 
0.11 
0.32 
0.39 
0.31 
0.13 
0.19 
0.34 
0.08 
0.16 
0.20 
0.15 
0.35 
0.05 
0.02 
0.02 
0.10 
0.15 
0.20 
0.08 
0.02 
0.01 
0  01 
0  (11 

260 

Eggs,  24c  per  dozen 

385 

0  02 
0.14 
0.17 
2.45 
2.94 
2.96 
0.98 
0.86 
1.66 
0.97 
1.04 
1.30 
1.04 
1.16 
0.18 
0.05 
0.18 
0.93 
1.40 
1.87 
0.54 
0.65 
0.18 
0.13 
0.09 
1.67 

1185 

885 

1030 

Wheat  flour 

5440 

Do 

6540 

6540 

2235 

Oa  t  breakfast  food 

2395 

4500 

Rice 

2025 

Do 

0.02 
0.03 
0.01 
0.03 
0.01 

■"o.oi"' 

0.01 
0  01 
0.01 
0.01 
0.02 
0.01 

2400 

Do 

3000 

2340 

Beans,  white,  dried 

3040 

460 

Celery 

130 

430 

1970 

2950 

3935 

Turnips 

1200 

1270 

370 

250 

0.01 

215 

iSugar 

2020 

[Lesson  53B] 


GELATINE   DESSERTS— Ckmtinued 


[Page  137] 


2  tbsp.  granulated  gelatine 

3  c.  milk 


SPANISH  CREAM 


3  egg  yolks 
%  c.  sugar 
%  tsp.  salt 


tsp, 


whites 
vanilla 


Reserve  %  c.  milk  to  soak  gelatine.  Scald  the  remaining  2%  c.  of  milk.  Separate  the 
eggs,  beat  the  yolks,  add  the  sugar  and  salt;  stir  in  the  scalded  milk  slowly  and  cook  in  double 
boiler  until  custard  thickens,  stirring  all  the  time.  Remove  from  fire,  add  the  soaked  gelatine 
and  stir  until  dissolved,  then  strain.  Beat  the  whites  until  stiff,  fold  into  mixture.  Flavor 
and  turn  into  cold  wet  mold.     Chill. 


"*"^, 


%. 


LEMON  PUDDING 


1%  tbsp.  granulated  gelatine 
%  c.  cold  water 


%  c.  sugar 
4  j'olks 


4  whites 

Juice  and  rind  1  lemon 


Soak  the  gelatine  in  the  cold  water.  Dissolve  over  boiling  water.  Beat  yolks  until  thick 
and  lemon-colored.  Add  sugar  gradually;  beat  thoroly;  add  the  dissolved  gelatine  mixed  with 
the  lemon  juice  and  rind.  Stir  until  it  begins  to  thicken,  then  fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten 
whites.  Place  in  a  mold  and  chill.  Serve  with  sweetened  and  flavored  whipped  cream 
(Lesson  37B). 


2%  tbsp.  granulated  gelatine 
Vj   c.  cold  water 
%  c.  boiling  water 


ORANGE  CHARLOTTE 

1  c.  sugar 

1  c.  orange  juice 

Grated  rind  of  1  orange 


2  tbsp.  lemon  juice 
Whip  from  3  c.  cream 


Sonk  gelatine  in  cold  water.  Dissolve  in  boiling  water.  Add  sugar,  fruit  juice  and  rind. 
Set  bowl  in  ice  water,  stir  constantly  until  it  begins  to  thicken,  then  fold  in  whip  from 
cream,  adding  Vs  at  a  time.     Line  a  mold  with  orange  sections.       Fill  mold  and  chill. 


Strawberries,  raspberries,  pineapple,  etc.,  may  be  used  in  place  of  the  orange. 


[Page  138] 


BASIC  PRINCIPLES  OF  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE 

TEST  QUESTIONS 


[Lesson  54A] 


1  2  3  4 

COURSE   LUNCHEON 
Color — Green  and   White 

I.  Cream  of  Potato  Soup. 

II.  Jellied  Veal  with  Creamed  Potatoes.     Mint  Ice. 
HI.     Lettuce  and  Banana  Salad. 

rV.     Ice  Cream  in  Angel's  Calce  Basket.     Angelica  or  candy  handle, 
V,    Coffee, 


[Lesson  546] 


PRACTICE    TEST 


-"-.IPI 


[Page  139] 


^^-  ',- 


SIMPLE  DINNER 
MENU  I— Red  Color  Scheme 

Tomato  Soup 
Radishes  Croutons 


Meat   Loaf 


Mashed  Potatoes 


Buttered  Beets 


Blanc  Mange 


Strawberry  Sauce 


MENU   II 
Vegetable  Soup 


Braized  Breast  of  Lamb 
Mashed  Potatoes  Stewed  Tomatoes 

Fruit    Salad 
Prune   Whip  Custard    Sauce 


COST  OF  PREPARING  ABOVE  MENUS  TO  SERVE  SIX 
Materials  Quantity  qq^% 


[Page  140]  BASIC  PRINOIPLES  OF  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE 

INDIVIDUAL  RECIPES— SEMESTER  III. 


LESSON  35B 

STUFFED  EGGS 

1  hard  cooked  egg 

1  tsp.  finely  chopped  ham 
3  tbsp.  white   sauce 

2  tbsp.  buttered   crumbs 

LESSON  36B 

CARAMEL  CUSTARD 

%  c.  scalded  milli 

V2  egg 

2  tbsp.  sugar 

^g  tsp.  salt 

Vs  tsp.  vanilla 


LESSON  37B 

COTTAGE  CHEESE 

%  c.  sour  milk 
%tsp.  butter 
Few  grs.  salt 
1  tsp.  cream 


LESSON  40B 

BEEF  LOAF 

2  tbsp.  chopped  meat 

4  drops  onion  juice 

Vs  tsp.  salt 

Few  grs.  pepper 

1  tsp.  beaten  egg 

1/4  tsp.  chopped  parsley 

V2  tsp.  chopped  suet 

1  tbsp.  bread  crumbs 

2  tsp.  milk 


TOMATO  SAUCE 

14  c.  water 

%  c.  tomato  juice 

1/4  slice  onion 

1  clove 

Ve  tsp.  salt 

1  tsp.  butter 

2  tsp.  flour 

Prepare  mashed  potato, 
using  1   potato. 


LESSON  38B 

CHEESE  FONDUE 

2  tbsp.  scalded  milk 
2  tbsp.  bread  crumbs 
4  tbsp.  cheese  (cut  fine) 
1/2   tsp.  butter 
re  tsp.  salt 

^   yolk   and   %   beaten 
white 

CHEESE  STRAWS 

11/4  tbsp.  flour 
Few  grs.  salt 
1/2  tsp.  butter 
2  tbsp.  bread  crumbs 
,     2  tbsp.  grated  cheese 
1  tsp.  milk   (or  enough  to 
make  a  dough) 


LESSON  41B 

BEEF  STEW 

1  small  piece  of  meat 

1%  tsp.  flour 

1  slice  turnip 

1  slice  carrot 

1  slice  onion 

4  slices  potato 

%  c.  water  or    more 

1/4  tsp.  salt 

Few  grs.  pepper 

Small  piece  of  suet  to 

brown  half  of  meat 
Prepare  beef   stock  omitting 
flour  and  potatoes,  as  shown  in 
beef  stew  recipe. 


LESSON  39B 

VANILLA    ICE    CREAM 

1/3  c.  cream 

1  tbsp.  sugar 
1/3  tsp.  vanilla 

Add  walnuts  or  14  square 
chocolate  melted  and  cooked 
with  1  tbsp.  sugar,  2  tbsp.  boil- 
ing water. 

MILK  SHERBET 

14    c.    milk 

2  tbsp.  sugar 

I  tbsp.  lemon  juice   (level) 


DEMONSTRATE 

BEEF  A  LA  MODE 


LESSON  42B 

HAMBURG  STEAK 

2  tbsp.  chopped  meat 

Ve  tsp.  Bait 

Few  grs.  pepper 

1  tsp.  milk 

Few  drops  onion  juicQ 


INDIVIDUAL  RECIPES 


[Page  141] 


INDIVIDUAL  RECIPES— SEMESTER  IH. 


LESSON  43B 

VEAL  BIRDS 

1  thin  slice  veal 
3  tbsp.  bread  crumbs 
y^  tap.  butter 
'%  tap.  chopped  parsley 
Few  drops  onion  juice 
Few  grs.  celery  salt 
%  tsp.  salt 
Few  grs.  pepper 
1  tsp.  milk  or  stock 


LESSON  46B 

VEAL  CROQUETTES 

%  c.  chopped  veal 
Vs  tsp.  salt 
2  tbsp.  THICK  sauce 
(level) 

Vb  yolk 


POTATO  CROQUETTES 

^  c.  riced  potatoes 
Few  grs.  celery  salt 
%  tsp.  chopped  parsley 
%  tsp,  butter 
Va  egg  yolk 


LESSON  51B 

FISH  BALLS 

Yi  c.  cod  fish 

1  potato 

%  tsp.  butter 

1  tbsp,  egg 

SALMON   LOAF 

2  tbsp.  salmon 
%  tsp.  butter 
1/2  yolk 

Few  grs.  pepper 

1  tbsp.  crumbs 

2  tsp.  milk 

%  tsp.  parsley 
Te  tsp.  salt 
1/^  white 


LESSON  SOB 


OYSTER  STEW 

6  oysters 
%  c.  scalded  milk 
1  tsp.  butte  ■ 
%  tsp.  salt 


LESSON  52B 

LEMON  JELLY 

1  tsp.    (slightly  rounding) 
granulated   gelatine 

2  tbsp.  cold  water 
%  c.  boiling  water 
2  tbsp.  sugar 

1  tbsp.  lemon  juice 
%    tsp,  lemon  rind 


LESSON  53B 

LEMON  PUDDING 

1  tsp.  gelatine 

2  tbsp.  cold  water  • 
2  tbsp.  sugar 

1  beaten  yolk 
1  beaten  white 
1  tbsp.  lemon  juice 


ORANGE  CHARLOTTE 

1  tsp.  gelatine 
1  tbsp.  cold  water 

1  tbsp.  boiling   water 
Dissolve  over  tjoiling  water 

2  tbsp,  sugar 

2  tbsp.  orange  juice 
Grated  rind   i/4   orange 
1  tsp.  lemon   juice 
%  c.  whipped  cream 


NOTES: 


[Page  142]  BASIC  PRINCIPLES  OF  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE 


NOTES:  [Page  143J 


[Page  144)  BASIC  PRINCIPLES  OF  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE 


NOTES:  [Page  I4^i 


[V&ge  146]  BASIC  PRINCIPLES  OF  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  [Lesson  55A] 

HEAT  PRODUCERS 

FATS  AND  OILS 

(See  Lesson  16A) 

SOURCE. — P'ats  and  oils  are  obtained  from  the  animal  and  vegetable  kingdoms.  They 
contain  three  substances:     Stearin   (solid),  Palmitin    (semi-solid),  Olein   (liquid). 

USES  IN  THE  BODY. — The  fats  and  oils  store  up  heat  and  energy;  they  also  act  as  a 
lubricant. 

IN  THE  ANIMAL  KINGDOM  fat  is  found  in  layers  under  the  skin,  around  the  kidneys 
and  other  vital  organs,  about  the  joints,  between  the  vertebrae,  in  all  tissues,  in  the  blood 
stream  and  around  the  nerves.  The  source  of  fat  in  the  body,  is  to  a  certain  extent 
from  the  fat  of  food,  also  from  decomposition  of  the  proteins  and  a  large  proportion  of  carbo- 
hydrates. Among  the  animal  fats,  cream  and  butter  are  the  most  i&portant  on  account  of 
their   easy  assimilation. 

FAT  IS  THE  MOST  VALUABLE  to  poorly  nourished  people,  convalescents,  consump- 
tives, diabetics,  nervous  people,  growing  children,  and  those  who  have  poor  blood   (anemics). 

DIGESTION  OF  FATS. — Fat  is  acted  upon  by  the  steapsin  of  the  pancreatic  juices  and 
the  bile  in  the  smaller  intestines,  where  it  is  divided  into  such  tiny  globules  that  it  can  be 
readily  absorbed  by  the  cell  walls. 

WHY  FRIED  FOOD  AND  PASTRY  ARE  HARD  TO  DIGEST.— Fat  is  not  acted  upon  by 
the  saliva  in  the  mouth,  nor  the  gastric  juices  in  the  stomach;  so  when  particles  of  food 
which  should  be  acted  upon  by  these  fluids  are  entirely  coated  with  grease  they  cannot  be 
reached  and  therefore  enter  the  smaller  intestines  undigested.  Here  the  fait  is  removed  from 
them  by  the  action  of  the  pancreatic  juices,  which  do  their  best  to  digest  all,  but  as  they  were 
not  intended  to  do  all  the  work,  much  of  the  food  is  passed  on  undigested.  In  pastry  there 
is  also  another  reason,  namely,  that  so  little  water  is  added  to  the  fat  coated  starch  granules 
that  they  cannot  swell  and  burst  sufficiently.  Starch  grains  must  absorb  water,  swell  and 
burst  before  they  can  be  digested. 

REMEMBER,  it  is  the  part  of  the  food  that  comes  in  contact  with  the  hot  fat  in  frying 
that  is  rendered  difficult  of  digestion.     Follow  directions  for  frying  in  Lesson  46A. 

EXAMPLES  OF  ANIMAL  FATS  are  fat  of  meats,  as  in  bone-marrow,  suet,  fat  of  fish, 
fat  of  milk  and  eggs.  Among  the  animal  fats,  cream  and  butter  are  the  most  important  on 
account   of  their  easy  assimilation. 

EXAMPLES  OF  VEGETABLE  FATS  are  the  fats  found  in  seeds,  fruits  and  nuts. 

Cream,  butter,  olive  oil,  bacon,  corn  meal,  oatmeal,  nuts  and  chocolate,  are  foods  valu- 
able for  the  fat  they  contain. 

When  a  recipe  calls  for  melted  shortening,  melt  fat  over  hot  water. 

To  add  butter  to  soups  and  sauces  after  they  are  taken  off  the  fire  is  considered  the  beet 
way.     Over-heated  butter  loses  some  of  its  flavor  and  is  difficult  to  digest. 

Never  throw  away  pieces  of  fat;  try  them  out  and  save  them  for  cooking  purposes. 

Butter  is  considered  the  inost  valuable  fat  when  it  is  fresh  and  sweet.  Rancid  butter 
should  not  be  used.  When  butter  is  expensive,  substitutes  may  be  used.  Examples — Oleo- 
margarine, suet,  chicken  fat,  crisco,  cottolene,  cotosuet,  etc.  Oatmeal  and  cornmeal  are  rich 
in  fat  and  furnish  the  body  with  fat  in  an  inexpensive  form. 

NOTES: 


[Lesson  55B] 


BACON  RECIPES 


[Page  1471 


BACON— I 

Take  oflF  the  rind  and  cut  bacon  into  thin  slices.  Cook  in  a  hot  frying  pan,  tux-ning  sliceo 
frequently  until  crisp  and  brown,  or  cover  bottom  of  frying  pan  with  water,  put  in  bacon, 
cook  until  water  has  evaporated,  then  continue  cooking,  turning  slices  until  nicely  browned. 
Drain  on  soft  paper. 

BACON  II 

Put  thin  slices  of  bacon  in  a  broiler  placed  over  a  dripping  pan  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven 
until  bacon  is  crisp.  Turn  once  during  baking.  Drain  on  soft  paper.  Oysters  may  be  wrapper*" 
in  thin  slices  of  bacon  and  baked  in  this  way. 


LIVER  AND  BACON 

Cut  1  lb.  of  liver  into  %  inch  slices.  Cover  with  boiling  water,  let  stand  5  minuter  to 
draw  out  the  blood;  dram,  remove  veins  and  skiu.  Wipe  the  liver,  sprinkle  with  salt  and 
pepper,  and  cook  in  hot  bacon  fat  until  brown  on  both  sides,  turning  occasionally.  Make  a 
gravy, 'using  2  tbsp.  of  the  bacon  fat  and  4  tbsp.  of  flour.  Brown  the  two  in  a  pan,  add  2  c. 
boilin»  water  gradually  and  stir  until  smooth,  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Put  the  browr.c-d 
slice  of  liver  into  the  gravy  and  cook  slowly  15  minutes.  Put  liver  and  gravy  on  a  hot  dish, 
arrano-e  the  crisp  bacon  around  the  edge  and  serve.  Liver  may  be  larded  and  baked  in  one 
large  piece. 


Baked  Beans  and  Brown  Bread 


1  qt.  beans 

1/4  lb.  salt  fat  pork 


BAKED  BEANS 


tsp.  salt 
tsp.  mustard 


%   c.  molasses 


Pick  over  and  wash  pea  beans;  cover  with  cold  water  and  soak  over  night.  In  the 
morning  drain,  cover  with  fresh  water  and  cook  slowly  below  boiling  point  until  soft,  then 
drain.  ^Put  ^4  inch  slices  of  salt  pork  fat  in  bottom  of  an  earthen  bean  pot  or  covered  crock. 
Put  beans  in  pot  and  bury  the  remaining  pork  (which  should  be  gashed  in  several  places)  in 
the  beans.  Mix  the  salt,  mustard  and  molasses  in  a  cup;  fill  the  cup  with  boiling  water  and 
pour  the  mixture  over  the  beans.  Add  enough  more  boiling  water  to  cover  beans.  Cover 
bean  pot,  put  in  oven,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  8  hours.  If  baked  a  long  time  they  become 
dark  and  have  a  rich  flavor.     One  cup  butter  may  be  used  instead  of  the  pork. 


[Page  148] 


BASIC  PRINCIPLES  UF  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE 

DIGESTION 


[Lesson  56A] 


LiVEiR 

GALL  BLADOeft 

OPENING    OF 
PANCREAS 
AND  LIVER 


"VERMIFORM 
APPENDIX 


OESOPHAGUS 


VALVE 
STOMACH 


PANCREAS 
SPLEEN 

LARGE  INTESTINE 


SMALL  INTESTINE 


etc. 


VENT 


Before   the   food  we   eat  becomes  blood  and  later  the   bone,  nerve,   muscle,   skin,  hair, 
it  undergoes  a  number  of  changes. 
The  processes  are: 

1.  Digestion. 

2.  Absorption. 

3.  Assimilation. 

4.  Elimination. 

Digestion  is  the  process  by  which  the  food  taken  into  the  body  is  changed  by  the  action 
of  the  digestive  fluids  into  a  liquid  form,  so  that  it  can  be  absorbed  by  the  cell  walls. 

Absorption  is  the  process  by  which  the  digested  food  passes  thru  the  cell  walls  (villi) 
into  the  blood  and  lymph  stream,  so  that  it  can  be  carried  "to  the  parts  where  it  is  needed. 

Assimilation  is  the  process  by  which  the  absorbed  food  is  made  like  the  different  parts 
of  the  body.  When  a  cell  needs  nourishment  or  repair  it  selects  from  the  blood  stream  the 
necessary  material  for  its  use. 

Elimination  is  the  process  by  which  useless  material  like  undigested  food  and  waste 
materials  formed  by  chemical  changes  are  excreted  by  the  skin,  lungs,  kidneys  and  the  large 
intestines.     (See  Lesson  15A.) 


FIVE  IMPORTANT  ORGANS  OF  DIGESTION 

Digestive  Fluid  Ferment  Nature  of  Ferment      Substance  acted  upon 

Starchf 

and  hydrochloric  acid  [  ^"'^ ProteinsJ 

Small  intestines. — INTESTINAL Acid  and  Alkaline ..  Starch,   proteins,   fats 

(  Amylopsin   ■ Starchf 

}  Trypsin    Alkaline Proteins? 

(  Steapsin     Fats* 

5.     Liver Bile Neutral Fate* 

*The  pancreas  secretes  the  pancreatic  juice  and  the  liver  secretes  the  bile,  but  no  food  is 
digested  i\i  them. 

The  pancreas  and  liver  pour  into  the  intestines  their  digestive  fluids  and  these  complete 
the  process  of  digestion,  as  they  act  upon  all  foods. 

fSee  I'-^flon  16A.  t  See  Lesson  35A.  *  See  Lesson  55A. 


Organ 

Mouth    Saliva    Ptyalin    Alkaline . 

Stomach     ...Gastric  ^  Renin,  pepsin 

ine 
4.     Pancreas 


[Lesson  56B] 


FAT  AS  A  FRYING  MEDIUM 


[Page  149 J 


DOUGHNUTS— I 

1  c.  sugar  1  c.  milk  14  tsp.  cinnamon 

2%  tbsp.  butter  3%  c.  flour — add  enougli  to  roll  1/2  tsp.  grated  nutmeg 

3  eggs  5  tsp.  baking  powder  1^2   tsp.  salt 

Cream  the  butter;  add  ^>  of  the  sugar.  Beat  eggs  until  light,  add  milk,  remaining  sugsr, 
and  combine  mixtures.  Add  the  flour  mixed  and  sifted  with  baking  powder,  salt  and  spices, 
then  enough  more  flour  to  make  a  dough  stiff  enough  to  roll.  Toss  Vs  of  mixture  onto  floured 
board,  knead  slightly,  pat  and  roll  out  to  Vs  inch  thickness.  Shape  with  a  doughnut  cutter, 
dijiped  in  flour.  Fry  in  deep  fat  and  drain  on  brown  paper.  Brown  the  doughnuts  on  one  side, 
then  turn  and  brown  on  the  other.  They  should  be  turned  only  once  unless  turned  immedi- 
ately after  rising  to  the  top  of  the  fat.  Doughnuts  should  rise  to  the  top  almost  immediately 
when  put  into  smoking  hot  fat. 

DOUGHNUTS— II 

5  c.  flour  1  tsp.  salt  1  c.  cream 

1  tsp. soda  1/4  tsp.  cinnamon  3  beaten   eggs 

3  tsp.  cream  of  tartar  Vs   tsp.  grated  nutmeg  1  c.  sugar 

Mix  and  sift  flovtr,  soda,  cream  of  tartar  and  seasonings.  Beat  the  eggs  and  add 
the  sugar  and  cream.  Add  to  dry  ingredients  and  mix  with  a  knife;  add  enough  flour  to  make 
a  dough  stiff  enough  to  roll.     Fat,  roll  and  shape  as  in  Recipe  I. 

SOUR  MILK  DOUGHNUTS 

4  c.  flour — add  enough  to  1  tsp,  B.  P. 

knead  V2  tsp.  salt 

1  tsp.  soda  1  well  beaten  egg 

%  tsp.  cinnamon  1  c  sugar 

Mix  according  to  directions  for  Doughnut  Recipe  II. 

Add  enough  flour  to  knead,  pat,  roll,  shape  and  fry  as  in  Recipe  I 


1/^  c.  sweet  milk 

%  c.  sour  milk 

1  tsp.  melted  butter 


2  apples  cut  in  cubes 
1  c.  flour 


APPLE  FRITTERS 

2  tsp.  baking  powder  Vs  c.  milk 

3  tbsp.  sugar  1  egg 
14  tsp.  salt 

Mix  and  sift  dry  ingredients;  add  milk  to  the  well  beaten  egg;  combine  mixtures,  then 
add  the  apples.  Drop  by  spoonfuls  and  fry  in  deep  fat,  dipping  the  spoon  into  hot  fat 
between  each   "poonful.     Drain  on  brown  paper   and  sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar. 


[Page  150]  BASIC  PRINCIPLES  Of  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  [Lesson  57A] 

STEAMING 

STEAMING  is   cooking  over   the   steam   from  boiling   water. 

STEAMING  may  be  done  in  a  perforated  steamer  over  a  kettle  containing  boiling  water. 

A  cooker  or  sterilizer  may  be  used. 

Cooking  in  the  upper  part  of  a  double  boii^n  ^vhere  the  steam  does  not  come  in  direct 
contact  with  the  food  is  called  dry  steaming. 

Foods  cooked  in  the  upper  part  of  the  double  boiler  do  not  reach  the  boiling  point  of 
water,  which  is  212  deg.  F.  Salt  added  to  the  water  in  the  lower  part  of  the  double  boiler 
will  raise  tlie  temperature. 

A  double  boiler  is  most  useful  for  making  custards,  scalding  milk,  and  cooking  cereals, 
as  it  insures  even  cooking,  prevents  it  from  wasting  or  drying  on  the  boiler,  mali.es  stirring 
unnecessary,  and  removes  all  chances  of  burning,  so  long  as  there  is  water  in  the  lower  part 
of  the  double  boiler. 

Steaming  is  a  slower  process  than  boiling. 

Tough  meats,  hams,  fruit  cakes,  puddings,  etc.,  require  a  long  moist  heat. 

Fish,  potatoes,  sweet  corn,  rice,  peas,  beans,  squash,  cucumbers,  and  pumpkins,  may  be 
steamed  to  advantage. 

GENERAL  DIRECTIONS  FOR   STEAMED    MIXTURES 

A  mold,  a  tin  pail  or  a  can  with  a  tightly-fitting  cover,  may  be  used. 

Grease  the  inside  of  the  mold  thoroly. 

The  mold?  may  be  covered  with  buttered  paper,  or  the  inside  of  the  cover  buttered,  an( 
thii.  should  bs  tied  down  securely. 

The  cans  should  be  filled  two-thirds  full. 

Place  the  mold  on  a  trivet  or  several  layers  of  soft  paper  in  a  large  kettle,  containing 
enough  boiling  water  to  reach  half  way  to  the  top  of  the  mold. 

Keep  the  water  boiling  all  the  time  during  the  steaming.  Add  more  boiling  wa-ter 
if   necessary. 

Cover  the  kettle  during  the  stes'.ming,  and  be  careful  not  to  jar  it  while  cooking. 

NOTES: 


[Lesson  57B] 


STEAMED   MIXTURES 


[Page  151j 


STEAMED  BREAD 
1%  c.  graham  flour  1  e.  Indian   meal  y^  c.  molasses 

1  tsp.  salt  y^  tbsp.  soda  1%  c.  milk 

Mix  and  stir  the  dry  ingredients!    Add  molasses  and  milk.     Fill  cans  %  full,  and  steam 
three  hours  in  a  large  mold.    Less  time  is  required  if  cooked  in  small  baking  powder  or  cocoa 


ENTIRE  WHEAT  PUDDING 

1%  c.  entire  wheat  flour  i^  c.  molasses  2  tbsp.  butter,  melted 

%  tsp.  soda  %  c.  milk  or  water  1  c.  chopped  raisins 

y^  tsp.  salt  1  Q^^^  beaten 

Mix  and  sift  dry  ingredients.    Add  molasses  and  milk.    Add  beaten  egg  and  melted  butter, 
then  the  raisins.    Chopped  figs  or  dates  may  be  used.    Steam  2%  hours  in  a  large  mold. 

HARD  SAUCE 

%  c.  butter  %  tsp.  lemon  extract  %  tsp.  vanilla  extract 

1  c.  powdered  sugar 

Cream  the  butter,  add  sugar  gradually,  and  flavoring. 

HUNTER'S  PUDDING 

%  c.  chopped  suet  %  tsp.  soda  y-^  tsp.  allspice 

%■  c.  molasses  1  tsp?  salt  Vs  tsp.  cinnamon 

%  c.  milk  Vs  tsp.  clove  1  e.  raisins  in  2  tbsp.  flour 

2  c.  flour  Va  tsp.  mace  %  c.  chopped  nut  meats 

Mix  in  the  order  given.     Steam  2i/^  hours.     Serve  with  yellow  sauce. 

YELLOW  SAUCE 

2  eggs  1  c.  powdered  sugar  1  tsp.  vanilla 

Beat   yolks  of  eggs;   add  sugar  gradually. 
Fold  in  stiffly  beaten  whites;  flavor. 

PLUM  PUDDING  WITHOUT  EGGS 

I  qt.  cooked  mashed  carrots 

1  lb.  finely  chopped  suet 
'  %  c.  sugar 

S  c.  flour    1 

1%  tsp.  salt I 

1  tsp.  cinnamon \  Sift  together 

%  tsp.  clove 

%  grated  nutmeg    

%  lb.  currants    ") 

%  lb.  raisins \  Dredge  with  flour. 

%  lb.  citron j 

Mix  ingredients  in  order  given.     Steam  3%  hours  in  a  buttered  mold.    May  be  steamed 
in  individual  molds.     Carrots  should  be  forced  thru  a  fine  strainer. 


[Page  152] 


BASIC  PEINCIPLES  OF  DOMESTIC  SQENCE 


[Lesson  58A] 


BREAD  AND  BREAD  MAKING 

The  word  bread  comes  from  ancient  words  meaning  to  bruise,  break  or  pound.  It  also 
conveys  that  it  is  made  from  crushed  or  ground  grain.  Many  different  kinds  of  grains  are 
used  in  different  countries.  In  the  United  States,  wheat  is  the  grain  most  commonly  used. 
Bread  is  often  spoken  of  as  the  staff  of  life.  • 


Milk  and  water  bread  is  considered  the  best  combination.  The  liquids  used  should 
always  be  scalded  to  kill  any  dust  plants  that  might  ■  be  present.  The  liquids  should  be 
lukewarm  before  the  yeast  is  added.     Why? 

Essential  ingredients  for  bread  making  are:  Flour,  liquid  and  a  leavening  agent.  Salt, 
sugar  and  shortening  are  added  to  give  flavor. 

Flour   (see  Lesson  23). 

Experiments  with  flour: 

I.  Put  4  tbsp.  white  flour  into  a  piece  of  double  cheese-cloth.  Wash  this  in  a  glass 
containing  cold  water  until  the  water  becomes  cloudy.     Divide  in  two. 

(a)  Test  one-half  of  it  with  iodine.     What  is  the  result? 

(b)  Pour  the  other  half  into  a  saucepan  and  heat  it  to  boiling  point.     Wliat  is  the 
result  ? 

(c)  Examine   the   sticky   substance   left   in   the   cheese   cloth.     Knead   it   until   it   is 
elastic  and  rubber-like.     Test  it  with  iodine.    What  is  the  result? 

It  should  be  free  from  starch  and  represent  the  protein  matter  in  wheat  called  gluten. 
It  is  this  gluten  that  gives  the  flour  the  power  to  hold  the  gas  bubbles  formed  by  the  action 
of  yeast. 

Liquid.      (See  Lesson  31A.) 

Milk  produces   the  whitest  and   most   tender  loaf. 

Water  produces  a  loaf  that  will  keep  moist  the  longest. 


[Lesson  58B] 


ROLLS 


[Page  153] 


(See  Lesson  31A.) 


PARKER  HOUSE  ROLLS 


1  c.  boiling  water 
1  c.  scalded   milk 


3  tbsp.  sugar  3  tbsp.  butter 

1  tsp.  salt  Flour 

1  yeast  cake  mixed  with  ^   c.  lukewarm  water 


Add  sugar,  salt  and  butter  to  milk  and  water.  When  lukewarm,  add  the  yeast  cake 
mixed  with  the  water  and  three  cups  flour.  Beat  vigorously;  add  more  Hour  to  make  a 
dough.  Rub  a  little  flour  on  the  moulding  board  and  turn  the  dough  onto  it.  Dust  a  little 
flour  on  the  palm  of  your  hands,  and  knead  the  dough  until  it  is  smooth  and  elastic  to  the 
touch,  and  will  not  stick  to  the  board  or  hands.  Return  to  bowl,  cover  closely,  and  let  it 
stand  in  a  warm  place  until  double  its  bulk.  Turn  the  dough  on  a  board  and  knead  again 
until  no  large  bubbles  can  be  seen.  Shape  dough  into  biscuits,  let  rise  again,  then  with  the 
handle  of  a  case-knife  dipped  in  flour,  crease  thru  the  middle  of  each  biscuit,  or  roll  with 
rolling  pin  to  oblong  shape.  Brush  ^/o  of  each  with  melted  butter,  fold  and  press'  together. 
Place  in  greased  pans,  one  inch  apart;  cover,  let  rise  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  12  to  15 
minutes. 

CLOVER-LEAF  biscuits  may  be  made  by  shaping  round  biscuits;  brush  them  with 
melted  butter;  drop  three  of  them  into  each  well  greased  muffin  pan.    Let  rise  and  bake. 


jRk 


Different  Shapes 


SWEET  ROLLS 

1  c.  milk  %  c.  sugar  Yolks  of  3 

1  tsp.  salt  Vi  c.  melted  butter  Grated  rind  of  1  lemon 

1  yeast  cake  mixed  with  %  c.  lukewarm  water.     Flour. 

Scald  the  milk;  add  the  salt  and  sugar;  when  lukewarm  add  the  yeast  mixture  and 
1%  c.  flour;  beat  well,  cover  and  let  rise  imtil  double  its  bulk.  Add  the  butter,  well  beaten 
yolks,  lemon  rind  and  enough  flour  to  knead.  Knead,  let  rise  again  until  double  its  bulk. 
Shape,  place  in  a  buttered  pan,  let  rise  again  and  bake.  Few  grains  of  ground  cardaman  may 
be  added. 

NOTE. — Up.e  as  little  flour  as  possible  on  the  board  when  kneading  the  dough.  Remove 
biscuits  from  the  pan  as  soon  as  baked,  and  cool  so  the  air  may  circulate  freely  around  the 
biscuits.  Tf  tender  crust  is  desired,  rub  the  crust  with  a  little  butter  just  before  taking  the 
biscuits  from  the  oven. 


[Page  154]  BASIC  PRINCIPLES  OF  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  .     [Lesson  59A] 

YEAST  AND  ITS  ACTION 

(See  Lesson  30A.) 

Compressed  yeast  is  usually  yeast  obtained  from  the  froth  of  beer. 

Recipe  for  home-made  yeast: 
5  small  or  4  large  grated  %  c.  sugar  1  yeast  cake  mixed  with  i^  c. 

potatoes  2  tbsp.  salt  lukewarm  water 

1  qt.  boiling  water 
Add  grated  potatoes  to  boiling  water  and  boil  5  minutes  while  stirring.     Cool,  add  sugar, 
salt  and  yeast  cake  mixture.     Pour  into  a  stone  or  glass  jar,  cover,  and  let  stand  in  a  warm 
place  for  3  hours  or  more.     Each  time  mixture  reaches  top  of  jar  stir  it  down.     Do  this  until 
fermentation  ceases,  then  put  away  in  a  cool  place.     Cover. 

Use  %  cupful  of  this  in  place  of  one  yeast  cake  when  making  bread  or  biscuits. 

Use  until  there  is  only  I/2  cupful  left,  then  prepare  according  to  recipe  above,  using  the 
1^  cupful  of  yeast  in  place  of  the  yeast  cake. 

Mechanical  processes  are: 

1.  Mixing. 

2.  Beating. 

3.  Kneading  and  Molding. 

MIXING 

The  flour  should  be  thoroly  mixed  with  a  sufficient  quantity  of  liquid  so  that  each  grain 
of  flour  may  be  thoroly  hydrated  (water-soaked),  the  sugar  dissolved  and  the  gluten  suffi- 
ciently moistened. 

BEATING 

The  mixture  should  be  thoroly  beaten  to  enclose  as  much  air  as  possible  and  to  distribute 
these  air  cells.  Beating  the  mixture  will  make  it  elastic.  The  longer  it  is  beaten  the  less 
kneading  is  required. 

KNEADING 

The  mixture  should  be  kneaded  thoroly  to  make  the  gluten  elastic,  to  break  the  bubbles 
and  to  distribute  evenly  the  C02,  thereby  forming  a  fine-grained  loaf. 

Molding  is   simply   the  shaping  of  the  dough  into  loaves. 

BAKING  , 

Bread  is  baked — 1.  To  cook  the  starch.  2.  To  expand  the  gases  and  to  harden  the  cell 
walls.  3.  To  kill  the  yeast  plants.  4.  To  evaporate  the  alcohol  formed.  5.  To  brown  the 
erust. 

NOTE: 


[Lesson  59B] 


BREAD 


[Page  155] 


(See  Lesson  30A.) 


WHITE    BREAD 


1  c.  scalded  milk 
1  c.  boiling  water 
1  tbsp.  butter 


1  tbsp.  lard 
1%  tsp.  salt 
1  tbsp.  sugar 


1  yeast  cake  mixed  with  ^  c. 

lukewarm  water 
6  c.  flour 


Add  butter,  lard,  salt  and  sugar  to  the  milk  and  water;  let  stand  until  lukewarm;  add 
yeast  cake  mixed  with  the  lukewarm  water  and  5  cups  flour.  Stir  until  smooth,  then  add 
enough  flour  (gradually)  to  make  a  dough  stiff  enough  to  knead.  Turn  the  dough  onto  a 
floured  board,  knead  until  smooth  and  elastic  to  the  touch.  Return  to  bowl,  cover  closely, 
and  let  it  stand  in  a  warm  place  until  double  its  bulk.  Knead  again  and  shape  into  loaves, 
and  place  in  greased  pans.  Cover.  Let  it  rise  until  double  its  bulk.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven 
50  to  60  minutes.     Have  the  crusts  brown  on  all  sides. 


ENTIRE  WHEAT  BREAD 

1  c  boiling  water  Vs  c.  molasses  4%  c.  coarse  entire  wheat  flour 

1  c.  scalded  milk  1  tsp.  salt  2%  c.  flour 

1  yeast  cake  dissolved  in  %  c.  lukewarm  water 

Add  sweetening  and  salt  to  milk;  cool,  and  when  lukewarm  add  yeast  cake  mixture  and 
5  c.  flour  mixed  and  sifted.  Beat  mixture  well;  add  enough  flour  to  make  a  dough  stiff 
enough  to  knead;  knead,  cover  and  let  rise  to  double  its  bulk.  Knead  again,  shape,  place  in 
greased  bread  pans,  having  pans  ^  full.    Let  rise  and  bake. 


RYE   BREAD 

May  be  made  as  directed  for  entire  wheat  bread,  using  rye  flour  in  place  of  the  whole 
w^heat  flour. 

Remember  to  let  dough  rise  to  double  its  bulk  each  time. 


(Page  156j 


BASIC  PRINCIPLES  OF  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE 


[Lesson  60AJ 


CAKE  FILLINaS  AND  FROSTINGS 


.^ 


(See  Lesson  28) 

ORANGE   FILLING 

1^  c.  sugar  1  egg  slightly  beaten  %  c.  orange  juice 

2  tbsp.  flour  Grated  rind  %  orange  1  tsp.  lemon  juice 

Mix  sugar  and  flour;  add  other  ingredients  in  order  given.     Cook  10  minutes  in  a  double 
boiler,  stirring  constantly  until  thickened.     Cool  before   spreading. 


ORANGE  FROSTING 


Grated  rind  1  orange 


1  tbsp.  orange  juice  Yolk  1  egg 

1  tsp.  lemon  juice  Confectioners'  sugar 

Add  rind  to  the  fruit  juices;    let  stand   15   minutes,  strain  and  add  gradually  to  yolk 
of  egg  slightly  beaten.     Stir  in  sugar  until  of  right  consistency  to  spread. 


PLAIN  FROSTING 


%  c.  confectioners    sugar 


White  1  egg  2  tsp.  cold   water 

%  tsp.  vanilla 

Beat   the  white  of  egg  until  stiff";    add  water  and  sugar  gradually.     Beat  thoroly  and 
add  the  flavoring.       Use  more   sugar  if  needed. 


WHITE  MOUNTAIN  CREAM 


1  c.  sugar 

Vs  c.  boiling  water 


White  1  egg 

1  tsp.  vanilla  or  y<y  tbsp.  lemon  juice 

Boil  sugar  and  water  in  a  saucepan  until  it  forms  2-inch  "threads"  when  tried  with  a 
fork,  or  until  it  forms  a  soft  ball  in  cold  water.  Pour  syrup  gradually  into  beaten  white  of 
egg;  beat  constantly  until  of  right  consistency  to  spread.     Add  flavoring  and  pour  over  cake. 


CHOCOLATE  FROSTING 

1%  e.  sugar  1  sq.    chocolate  %  tsp.  vanilla 

%  c.  milk  1  tsp.  butter 

Put  butter  in  a  saucepan;  when  melted  add  the  sugar,  milk  and  chocolate.  Boil  13 
minutes,  or  until  it  makes  a  soft  ball  when  tried  in  cold  water.  Let  stand  until  cooled, 
Beat  until  creamy.    Add  flavoring  and  pour  over  cake. 


[Lesson  60B] 


CAKES 


Linage  157] 


White  Cake  with  Cocoanut  Frosting 


Whites    4   eggs 
1%  tsp.  vanilla 


WHITE  CAKE 
14  c.  butter  %  c.  milk 

114  c.  sugar  21/3   c.  flour 

3  tsp.   baking  powder 
Cream  the  butter;  add  sugar  gradually,"  then  milk  alternately,  with  the  flour  sifted  with 
the  baking  powder.     Fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten  whites.     Add  the  flavoring  and  bake  in  layers 
about  15  minutes.     Frost  with  White  Mountain  Cream  Frosting. 

PLAIN    CAKE 
14  c.  butter  1  egg  11/2  c.  flour 

%  c.  sugar  V2  c.  milk  2%  tsp.  baking  powder 

Cream  the  butter;    add   sugar  gradually  and   egg  well   beaten.   Mix   and   sift   flour  and 
baking  powder;  add  alternately  with  milk.     Bake  30  minutes  in  a  shallow  pan. 


ORANGE   CAKE 
Vs  c.  butter  2  eggs  i/^  c.  milk 

1  c.  sugar  Rind  %  orange  1%  c.  flour 

2%   tsp.  baking  powder 
Cream  the  butter;    add  sugar  gradually,   eggs  well  beaten,  and  milk.     Then  add   flour 
mixed  and  sifted  with  baking  powder   and   orange   rind.     Bake   in   round   layer   cake   pans. 
Put  Orange  Filling  between  layers,  and  cover  top  with  Orange  Frosting. 

May  be  baked  in  individual  tins  and  frosted  with  confectioners'  or  White  Mountain 
Cream  Frosting.     Decorate  with  nuts,  angelica  candied  cherries,  etc.     See  illustration. 

CHOCOLATE  CAKE 

%  c.  butter  ^4  c.  milk  2  oz.  chocolate 

1  c.  sugar  1%  c.  flour  %  tsp.  vanilla 

2  eggs  2%  tsp.  baking  powder 

Cream  the  butter;  add  sugar  gradually,  eggs  well  beaten,  and  milk.  Add  flour  mixt-d 
and  sifted  with  baking  powder.  Beat  thoroly,  then  add  chocolate  and  vanilla.  Bake  in  layers. 
Frost  with  White  Mountain  Cream  Frosting  to  which  3  tbsp.  of  grated  chocolate  have  been 
added. 


[Page  158] 


BASIC  PRIKCIPLES  OF  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE 


tLesson  61A] 


BULLETIN  No.  28.— Average  Composition  of  American  Food  Products 


FOOD  MATERIALS 

(us  purchased) 

Refuse 

Water 

Protein 

Fat 

Carbo- 
hydrates 

Ash 

Fuel 

Value 
perPound 

EGGS:  Hens'  eggs 

Per  cent 
11.2 

Per  cent 
65.5 

11.0 
87.0 
90.5 
91.0 
26.9 
74.0 
27.4 
34.2 

11.4 
11.3 

12.0 
12.0 
10. 1 
13.6 
12. S 
7,3 
12.3 
11.4 

Per  cent 
13.1 

1.0 

3  3 

3.4 

3.0 

8.8 

2.5 
27.7 
25.9 

13,8 
13.3 

11.4 
14.0 
11.1 

6.4 

9.2 
16.1 

8.0 
.4 

Per  cent 
9.3 

85.0 

4.0 

.3 

.5 

8.3 

18.5 

36.8 

33.7 

1.9 
2.2 

1.0 
1.9 
1.7 
1.2 
1  9 
7.2 

.3 

.1 

Per  cent 

Per  cent 
.9 

3.0 

.7 

.7 

.7 
1.9 

.5 
4.0 
3.8 

1.0 
1.8 

.5 

.9 
1.6 

.9 
1.0 
1.9 

.4 

.1 

Calories 
613 

DAIRY  PRODUCTS.  ETC.: 
Butter 

3,450 

Whole  Milk  

5.0 
5.1 
4.8 
54.1 
4.5 
4.1 
2.4 

71.9 
71.4 

75  1 
71.2 
75,5 
77,9 
75,4 
67.5 
79.0 
88.0 
90.0 

53.1 
47.1 
52.1 
49.7 
53.2 
63.3 
69.7 
70.5 
73.1 
74.1 

69.3 
96.0 
81  2 
100  0 
71  4 

312 

Skim  Milk 

166 

Buttermilk  

162 

Condensed  milk 

1,476 

Cream 

874 

Cheese,  Cheddar 

2,063 

Cheese,  full  cri'am 

1,874 

VEGETABLE  FOOD. 
FLOUR,  MEAL,  ETC.: 

Entire  Wheat  Flour 

1,632 

Graham  flour 

1,626 

Wheat  flour,  patent  roller  process 

1,610 

Low  grade 

1,623 

Crushed  wheat 

1,640 

Buckwheat  flour 

1,578 

Corn  meal 

1,612 

1,808 

Rice 

1,591 

Tapioca 

1,608 

Starch 

1,633 

BREAD,  PASTRY,  ETC.: 

White  bread 

35  3 

43.6 

35.7 

,38.4 

35.7 

19.9 

6.8 

4,8 

5,9 

10,3 

25.1 

9.2 
5.4 
8.9 
9.7 
9.0 
6.3 
9.7 

11  3 
9.8 

13.4 

2.4 

1.3 

1.8 

1.8 

.9 

.6 

9,0 

12,1 

10,5 

9.1 

.9 

1,1 
2.1 
1.5 
1.3 
1.5 
1.5 
1.7 
2.9 
2.1 
1.3 

3  2 

1,183 

Brown  Bread 

1,025 

Graham  bread 

1,179 

Whole  wheat  Bread 

1,114 

Rye  Bread 

1,153 

Cake 

1,626 

Cream  Crackers 

1,929 

Oyster  crackers 

1,908 

Soda  crackers 

1,872 

Maca  roni 

1,600 

SUGAR  S,  ETC.: 

1,301 

Candy 

1,742 

Honey 

18,2 

.4 

1,481 

1,814 

Maple  syrup 

:::::■;■■ ::::.;;;: 

1,295 

From  the  United  States  Department  of  Agriculture. 


Ice  Cream  in  Sponge  Cake  Basket 
NOTES: 


[Lesson  61B] 


CAKES    WITHOUT    BUTTER 


[Page  159] 


(See  Lesson  28) 

CHEAP  SPONGE  CAKE 

Yolks  2  eggs  %  c.  flour  Whites  2  eggs 

-/a  c.  sugar  1  tsp.  baking  powder  i^  tbsp.  vinegar 

2  tsp.  hot  water  14   tsp.  salt 

Beat  yolks  until  thick;  add  sugar  gradually  and  continue  beating;  then  add  water,  flour 
mixed  and  sifted  with  the  baking  powder  and  salt.  Fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  eggs 
and  vinegar.  Bake  35  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven  in  an  unbuttered  or  a  buttered  and  floured 
cake  pan. 


CREAM  SPONGE  CAKE 


Yolks  4  eggs 

1  c.  sugar 

3  tbsp.  cold  water 


1%  tbsp.  cornstarch  1^  tsp.  salt 

1  c.  flour    (scant)  Whites  4  eggs 

1%  tsp.  baking  powder 
1   tsp.   lemon   extract 

add  sugar  gradually  and  beat  2  minutes.  Then  add  water.  Mix 
and  sift  cornstarch,  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt,  and  add  to  first  mixture.  Fold  in  stiflSy 
beaten  whites  and  flavoring.  Bake  about  20  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven.  This  cake  may  be 
made  with  two  eggs,  and  using  2  tsp.  baking  powder  and  3  tbsp.  water. 


Beat  volks  until  thick; 


ANGEL'S  FOOD 

Whites  8  eggs  1  c.  sugar   (sifted  4  times)        Vi  tsp.  salt 

1  tsp.  cream  of  tartar  %  c.  flour   (sifted  4  times)        %  tsp.  vanilla 

Beat  Avhites  until  frothy;  add  cream  of  tartar  and  continue  beating  until  stiff.  Sift 
flour  and  sugar  separately  four  times,  tlicn  together;  fold  into  the  stiffly  beaten  whites,  adding 
the  mixture  at  the  side  of  the  bowl;  add  vanilla,  and  bake  in  an  unbuttered  baking  tin  about 
45  minutes. 


SMALL  SUNSHINE  CAKE 


Whites  5  eggs  Yolks  3  eggs 

%  c.  powdered   sugar  V2  tsp.  vanilla 

Beat   whites   until   frothy;    add  cream   of  tartar, 
gradually,  continue  beating;   add  beaten  yolks  and  extract. 
Angel  Cake,  allowing  about  30  minutes  for  baking. 


%  c.  flour 

%  tsp.  cream  of  tartar 

Beat  until   stiff  and   dry,   add   sugar 
Fold  in  sifted  flour.     Bake  as 


[Page  160] 


BASIC  PRINCIPLES  OF  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE 


[Lesson  62A] 


FOOD  VALUE  OF  NUTS,  ETC. 


BULLETIN  No.  28,— Average  Composition  of  American  Pood  Products 


Fuel 

Value 
per  Pound 


FOOD  MATERIALS 

(as  purchased) 


NUTS:- 

Almonds 

Beechnuts 

Brazil  nuts 

Butternuts 

Chestnuts,  fresh 

Chestnuts,  dried •. . .  . 

Cocoanuts. 

Cncoanut,  prepared 

Filberts   , 

Hickory  nuts 

Pecans,  polished 

Peanuts     

Pinon  (Pinus  edulis) 

Walnuts,  California,  black 

Walnuts,  California,  soft-shell 

RAISINS 

MISCELLANEOUS: 

Chocolate 

Co'^oa,  powdered 

Cereal  coffee  infusion  (1  part  boiled  in 
20  parts  water) 


Refuse 


Per  cent 

45  0 

40,  S 
49  ti 
86  4 
16  0 
24.0 
48.8 


52,1 
62  2 
53.2 
24.5 
40.6 
74.1 
58. 1 
10.0 


W  Iter 


2  7 
2  3 
2.6 


37.8 
4  5 
7. 
3. 
1. 
1. 
1. 
6. 


2.0 

.6 

1.0 

13.1 

5.9 
4.6 

98.2 


Protein 


Fat 


11  5 
13  0 

8  6 
3  8 
5  2 
8.1 
2,9 
6.3 
7  5 

5  8 
5.2 

13  5 
8.7 
7.2 

6  9 
2  3 

12  9 
21.6 


Per  cent 

30.2 

31.0 

33  7 

8.3 

4  5 

5.3 

25.9 

57.4 

31  3 

25  5 

33.3 

29.1 

36.8 

14.6 

26.6 

3.0 

4S.7 

23.9 

Carbo- 
hydrates 


Per  cent 

9.5 

7  8 

3.5 

5 


35.4 

56,4 

14  3 

31  5 

6  2 

4.3 

6.2 

18.5 

10.2 

3.0 


68.5 


30.3 
37.7 


Ash 


Per  cent 

1.1 
2.1 
2.0 
4 
1.1 
1.7 

.9 
1  3 
1.1 

.8 

.7 
1.5 
1.7 

.5 

.6 
3.1 

2.2 

7.2 


Calories 

1,600 
1,700 
1,580 
413 
918 
1,384 
1,358 
3,003 
1,5!2 
1,213 
1.551 
1864 
1,82) 
771 
l.'J.'j 
1,406 

2,75C 
2,242 


From  the  United  States  Department  of  Agriculture. 


NOTES: 


fLesson  62B] 


COOKIES 
PART   I 


[Page  161] 


1/4  tsp.  salt 

%  tsp.  grated  nutmeg 


SUGAR  COOKIES— I 

%   c.  butter  3  tbsp.  milk 

1  e.  sugar  2  e.  flour 

2  eggs  beaten  3  tsp.  baking  powder 

Cream  the  butter,  add  the  sugar  gradually.  Add  well  beaten  egg,  milk,  and  the  flour 
mixed  and  sifted  with  the  baking  powder  and  nutmeg.  Add  flour  to  make  a  stiff 
dough.  Place  small  portion  of  dough  on  a  well-floured  board,  pat  and  roll  to  Vs-inch  thick- 
ness. Cut,  place  on  a  buttered  baking  tin,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  light  brown. 
One  egg  may  be  omitted,  and  then  less  flour  will  be  required. 

SUGAR  COOKIES— II 

1  tbsp.  lemon  juice 
1  tsp.  soda  in  2  tbsp.  milk 
3  eggs  beaten 
Cream  the  butter,  add  sugar  gradually,  and  well  beaten  eggs,  lemon  juice,  soda  and  milk, 
and  enough  sifted  flour  to  roll.     Cut  and  bake. 

Vanilla  Cookies.— Substitute  1  tsp.  vanilla  for  the  nutmeg  in  Sugar  Cookies  I. 
Chocolate  Cookies. — Add  three  tbsp.  grated  chocolate  or  cocoa  to  Recipe  I. 
Cocoanut    Cookies. — Ad,d    l^    c.    shredded   cocoanut   to   the   dry   ingredients   in   Recipe   I. 
Roll  Vi  inch  thick. 

Rich  Cookies. — %  c.  sugar,  1  c.  butter,  yolks  4  eggs,  3  tbsp.  milk,  4  c.  flour.  Combine 
as  Recipe  I. 


1  c.  sugar 

Vz  c.  lard  or  butter 


Flour  to  make  stiff  enough  to 
roll 


PEANUT  COOKIES.    Part  II 
2  tbsp.  butter  1/2  c.  flour  21/2  tbsp.  milk 

Vt  c.  sugar  1  tsp.  baking  powder  %  c.  chopped  peanuts 

1  egg  well  beaten  V^  tsp.  salt  V2  tsp.  lemon  juice 

Cream  the  butter,  add  sugar  gradually ;  add  well  beaten  egg.  Mix  and  sift  baking  powaer, 
salt  and  flour;  add  to  first  mixture;  then  add  milk,  peanuts  and  lemon  juice.  Drop  from 
a  tip  of  a  spooh  on  an  unbuttered  sheet  one  inch  apart,  and  place  1/2  peanut  on  top  of  each. 
Bake  12  to  15  minutes  in  a  slow  oven.     This  makes  24  cookies. 

BOSTON  COOKIES 
%  tsp.  soda 

1  tbsp.  hot  water 

2  c.  flour 
1/3   tsp.   salt  . 

Cream  the  butter,  add  sugar  gradually,  and  eggs  well  beaten.  Add  soda  dissolved  in 
water,  1/^  flour  mixed  and  sifted  with  salt  and  cinnamon.  Then  add  nut  meat,  fruit,  and 
remaining  flour.  Drop  by  spoonfuls  onto  a  buttered  tin,  one  inch  apart,  and  bake  in  a 
moderately  hot  oven. 


%  c.  butter 

1  c.  sugar 

2  eggs 


1  tsp.  cinamon 

%  to  1  c.  chopped  nuts 

1/3  c.  raisins 


[Page  162] 


BASIC  PRINCIPLES  OF  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE 


[Lesson  63A] 


PASTRY 

Pastry,  if  it  is  to  be  served  at  all,  should  be  light,  tender  and  flaky.  It  is  then  more 
easily   digested. 

Winter  wheat  flour,  called  pastry  flour,  should  be  used,  as  it  makes  the  pastry  more 
tender  than  bread  flour.    Less  shortening  is  required  when  pastry  flour  is  used. 

The  lightness  of  the  pastry  depends  upon  the  amount  of  air  enclosed  and  its  expansion 
in  baking. 

The  flakiness  depends  upon  the  number  of  layers  of  shortening  and  paste  formed  by 
folding  and   rolling. 

GENERAL  DIRECTIONS 

Use  but'ter,  lard  or  drippings  for  the  shortening. 

Rub  in  shortening  with  the  tips  of  the  fingers  or  chop  in  with  a  knife. 

Add  enough  cold  water  to  make  a  stiff  dough,^ using  a  knife  for  mixing. 

All  the  ingredients  must  be  cold. 

Handle  the  dough  as  little  as  possible,  and  keep  it  as  cold  as  possible,  as  heat  melts  the 
fat  and  makes  it  difficult  to  handle  the  dough. 

Use  as  little  flour  as  possible  during  the  rolling. 

Cut  the  pastry  a  little  larger  than  the  dish  to  allow  for  shrinkage. 

RECIPE    FOR    PASTRY 

1%  c.  flour  %  tsp.  salt  Va  to  %  c.  shortening 

Cold  water  to  make  a  stiff  dough    (about  4%  tbsp.). 

Mix  and  sift  the  flour  and  salt.  Rub  in  shortening  with  tips  of  fingers  or  cut  it  into  the 
flour  with  two  knives.  Add  the  cold  water,  using  a  knife  for  mixing.  Knead  the  dough  lightly 
into  a  ball.    Cut  in  two;  roll  into  circular  pieces  to  fit  pie  tin,  or 

Work  1/2  of  the  butter  or  shortening  into  the  flour,  add  cold  water  to  make  a  stiff  dough 
as  in  Recipe  I. 

Toss  on  a  floured  board,  roll  out  into  a  rectangular  piece.  Dot  with  remaining  half  of 
butter.     Fold  or  roll  up  like  jelly  roll;  cut  in  half  and  roll  out  for  top  and  bottom  cust. 

This  makes  a  flaky  crust.  Top  crust  should  be  gashed  in  several  places  to  let  out 
the  steam. 

NOTES: 


Covering  Tin  With  Under 
Crust 


Moistening   Edges   of   Crust 
With  Water 


[Lesson  63B] 


PIE 


[Page  163] 


Vs   tsp.  nutmeg 

Few  gratings  lemon  rind 


APPLE   PIE 

5  sour   apples  1  tsp.  butter 

Vs  tsp.  salt  M  tsp.  cinnamon 

%  c.  sugar  1  tsp.  lemon  juice 

Line  pie  plate  with  paste.  Pare,  core  and  cut  apples  and  fill  the  pie.  Mix  the  dry 
ino-redients  and  lemon  juice,  and  sprinkle  over  apples.  Dot  over  with  butter.  Wet  edges 
of  under  crust,  cover  with  upper  crust,  pressing  the  edges  close  together.  Bake  in  a  hot 
oven   40   to  45   minutes,  or  until  fruit   is   cooked. 


1  c.  sugar 

3  tbsp.  cornstarch 


2  egg  yolks 
Juice  1  lemon 


LEMON   PIE— I 
1  c.  boiling  water 
1  tsp.  butter 

Grated  rind  1  lemon 

Mix  cornstarch  and  sugar;  add  to  boiling  water,  stirring  constantly.  Cook  until  clear; 
add  the  butter,  beaten  yolks,  lemon  juice  and  rind.  Cool.  Line  plate  with  paste.  Prick  the 
paste  and  bake.  Fill  with  lemon  mixture  and  cover  with  meringue  and  bake  until  meringue  is 
brown. 

LEMON  PIE— II 


Juice  1  lemon 
Grated  rind  1  lemon 


Ye  tsp.  salt 
%  c.  milk 


2  yolks 
1  c.  sugar 

3  tbsp.  flour 

Mix  sugar,  flour  and  salt.  Add  to  yolks.  Add  milk,  lemon  juice  and  rind  to  yolk  mix- 
ture. Cover  pie  tin  with  paste.  Brush  with  slightly  beaten  white  of  egg.  Fill  with  yolk 
mixture  and  bake  20  minutes  or  more  until  done.     Cover  with  meringue  and  brown  in  oven. 

MfiRINGUE 

White  2  eggs  %  tbsp.  lemon  juice 

2  tbsp.  sugar  or  powdered  sugar,  and  y^  tsp.  vanilla 
Beat  the  whites  until  stiff;   fold  in  sugar  and  add  flavoring. 

RHUBARB   PIE 

1V>   c-  rhtibarb  1   scant  c.  sugar  1   egg  2  tbsp.  flour 

Skin  aud  cut  rhubarb  in  ^^-inch  pieces.  Mix  sugar  and  flour;  add  egg  and  the  sugar 
and  flour.  Line  a  plate  with  crusf,  cover  with  rhubarb,  spread  with  egg  mixture;  cover  with 
crust.     Bake  until  fruit  is  cooked  and  crust  is  brown. 


[Page   1G4] 


BASIC  PRINCIPLES  OF  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE 


[Lesson  tAAJ 


BULLETIN  No.  28.— Average  Composition  of  American  Food  Products 


FOOD  MATKKIALS 

(as  purchased) 

Refuse 

Water 

Protein 

Fat 

Carbo- 
hydrates 

Ash 

Fuel 

Value 

perPound 

FRUITS,  BERRIES,  ETC.,  Fresh: 

Apples 

Per  cent 

25.0 
35.0 
25.0 
30.0 
50.0 
27.0 
10.0 

Per  cent 

63.3 
48.9 
58.0 
62.5 
44.8 
63.4 
76,0 
66.1 
85.8 
85.9 
37.5 

2S.1 
81.4 
13.8 

Per  cent 

.3 

.8 
1.0 

.7 

.3 

.6 

.5 

.8 
1.0 

.9 

.2 

1.6 

.9 

1.9 

4.3 

Per  cent 

.3 

.4 

1.2 

.5 

Per  cent 

10.8 
14.3 
14.4 

5.9 

4.6 

8.5 
12.7 
31.5 
12. G 

7.0 

2.7 

66.1 
17.3 
70.6 
74.2 

Per  cent 
.3 

■i 

.4 
.3 
.4 
.4 
.9 
.6 
.6 
.1 

2.0 

.4 

1.6 

2.4 

Calories 

214 
290 

Grapes 

Lemons 

328 
140 
89 

Oranges 

.1 
.4 

.7 

169 
256 

614 

247 

Strawberries 

5.0 
59.4 

.6 
.1 

2.2 

168 
57 

FRUITS,  Dried: 

1,317 

330 

Dates     

io.o 

2.5 
.3 

1,416 

Figs 

1,437 

TABLE  2.— Comparative  cost  of  total  nutrients  and  energy  in  fruits 


KIND  OF  FOOD  MATERIAL 


Price 

per 

pound 


Cost  of 
1  pound 
protein 


Cost  of 
1,000 
calories 
energy 


Amounts  for  10  cents 


Total 
weight 
of  food 
materials 


Protein 


Fat 


Carbo- 
hydrates 


Apples . 


FRESH  FRUITS 


Grapes 

Oranges 

Peaches 

Pears 

Plums 

Watermelons 

Blackberries 

Cranberries 

Currants 

Raspberries 

Strawberries 

DRIED  FRUITS 

Apples 

Dates 

Figs 

Prunes 

Raisins 

JAMS,  PRESERVES,  ETC. 

Apple  preserves 

Apple  butter 

Currant  and  raspberry  jam 

Gooseberry  jam 

Orange  marmalade 

Prune  sauce 

Strawberry  preserves 

Apple  jully 

Currant  jelly 

Guava  jelly 

Quince  jelly 

Apricots,  canned 

Pears,  canned 

Peaches,  canned 

Grape  j  uice 


Cents 
1  5 
7.0 
4.0 
6.0 
4.0 
3.0 
3.0 
1.5 
7.0 
5.0 
5.0 
7.0 
7.0 

12.0 
10  0 

15  0 
10  0 
10.0 

16.0 
5.0 
16.0 
16.0 
16.0 
16.0 
16.0 

16  0 
16  0 
16  0 
16  0 
16.0 
16  0 
16.0 
20.0 


Dollars 
5  00 
8.75 
4.00 

10.00 
8.00 
6.00 
3.33 
7,50 
5  38 

12.50 
3  33 
7.00 
7.78 

7.50 
5.26 
3.50 
5.53 
4.35 

91.43 
10.00 
26.66 
32.00 
26.66 
32.00 
26.67 
53.33 
40.00 
53.33 
80.00 
17.78 
53.33 
20  00 
83  33 


Cents 
7.3 
23.3 
11.9 
35.2 
25  1 
11.5 
8.1 
25.0 
25.9 
23.3 
li.O 
27.4 
40.0 


6.9 
10.2 
8.4 
6.9 

13.8 
5.6 
12.8 
13  2 
10.1 
37.2 
12.0 
12.2 
13.4 
10,5 
13,3 
-  47.1 
45.5 
53.2 
128.2 


Lbs. 
6,67 
1.43 
2.50 
1.67 
2.50 
3.33 
3.33 
6.67 
1.43 
2  00 
2.00 
1.43 
1.43 

^83 
1.00 
.67 
1,00 
1.00 

.62 
2.00 
.62 
.62 
.62 
.62 
.62 
.62 
.62 
.62 
.62 
.62 
.62 
.62 
.50 


C.  F.  Langworthy,  Department  of  Agriculture,  Washington,  D.  C. 


Lbs. 

0.02 
.01 
.03 
.01 
.01 
.02 
.03 
.01 
.02 
.01 
.03 
.01 
.01 

.01 
.02 
.03 
.02 
.02 


Lbs. 
0  02 


.01 


Lbs. 

0.72 
.21 
.36 
.14 
.19 
.42 
.64 
.18 
.16 
.20 
.26 
.18 
.10 

.55 
.71 
.50 
.62 


.39 
.94 
.42 
.40 
.52 
.14 
.44 
.43 
.40 
.51 
.40 
.11 
.11 
.09 
.04 


NOTES: 


[Lesson  64B] 


FROZEN  FRUIT  JUICE  MIXTURES 


[Page  165] 


Strawberry  Ice  with  Whipped  Cream 

(See  General  Directions  for  Freezing  in  Lesson  39A) 

Water  Ice  is  fruit  juice  sweetened,  diluted  with  water,  and  frozen. 
•  Sherbet  is  a  water  ice  mixture  to  which  is  added  dissolved  gelatine  or  beaten  whites  oi 
eggs. 

Frappe  is  a  water  ice  mixture  frozen  to  a  mush,  using  equal  parts  of  ice  and  salt   in 
."reezing. 

GENERAL  DIRECTIONS 
Boil  sugar  and  water  20  minutes.     Add  the  fruit  juice  and  rind   (if  used),  cool,  strain 
and  freeze. 

ORANGE  ICE 
4  c.  water  2  c.  orange  juice 

3  c.  sugar  %  c.  lemon  juice 

Follow  general  directions. 

LEMON   ICE 

4  c.  water  %  c.  lemon  juice 
2l^  c.  sugar                                    Juice  of   1  orange 

Follow  general  directions. 

FRUIT   ICE 
2  oranges  2  bananas  2%  c.  cold  water 

2  lemons  2  c.  strawberries  or  raspberries         2  c.  sugar 

Kub  the  fruit  thru  a  coarse  strainer  into  a  bowl,  pour  the  cold  water  thru  the  strainer. 
Add  sugar  to  the  mixture,  stir  and  freeze  according  to  directions  in  Lesson  39A. 

PINEAPPLE  SHERBET 

2  c.  grated  pineapple  2  c.  sugar  1  tbsp.  gelatine  soaked   in 

Juice    1    lemon  4  c.  water  V^  c.  cold  water 

Boil  the  sugar  and  water  20  minates.     Add  it  to  the  soaked  gelatine;   when  dissolved, 
add  the  fruit  juices.    Ck)ol  ard  freeze. 

GRAPE  FRAPPE 
4  c.  water  2  c.  orange   juioo 

2  c.  sugar  2  c.  grapo  juice 

Follow  geceral  directions  for  freezing. 


Grated  rind  2  oranges 
Grated  rind  1  lemon 


Rind  of  1  lemon  and  1  orange 


Va  c.  lemon  juice 


[Page  16.6]  BASIC  PRINCIPLES  OF  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  [Lesson  65A] 

JELLY  MAKING 

Jellies  are  made,  in  nearly  all  cases,  of  equal  quantities  of  cooked  fruit  juices  and  sugar. 

GENERAL   RULES 

Select  under-ripe  fruit  for  jelly  making.  Under-ripe  fruit  contains  a  substance  called 
pectose;  during  the  process  of  ripening,  it  is  changed  to  pectin.  Pectin  does  not  readily 
unite  with  sugar  to  form  a  jelly,  but  pectose  does,  therefore  in  jelly  making  we  use  fruit  a 
little  under-ripe. 

Prepare  the  fruit.  Cut  large  fruit  into  pieces  (use  skin  and  core).  With  watery  fruits, 
such  as  grapes,  currants,  etc.,  use  no  water.  With  apples,  quinces,  etc.,  use  enough  water 
to  cover  fruit.  Boil  the  fruit  until  the  juice  can  be  drained  out  easily.  Drain  juice  thru  a 
jelly  bag  or  double  thickness  of  cheese   cloth. 

Measure  the  juice  and  an  equal  quantity  of  sugar. 

Boil  the  fruit  juice  20  minutes.     Skim.     Heat  sugar  in  the  oven. 

Add  the  heated  sugar  to  the  boiled  fruit  juice,  continue  boiling  from  3  to  10  minutes,  or 
until  jelly  stiffens  when  a  little  is  tried  on  a  cold  plate. 

Strain  jelly  into  a  heated  pitcher  first,  then  pour  it  into  sterilized  glasses.  (See 
Lesson   5B.) 

Put  in  a  sunny  window  and  let  stand  24  hours. 

Cover;  pour  over  each  glass  melted  paraffin  or  use  circular  pieces  of  paper  dipped  in 
alcohol,  sealing  with  white  of  egg;   or  a  tin  cover. 

Keep  in  a  cool,  dry  place.     Label  and  date  all  glasses  of  jelly. 

JAMS 

JAMS  are  usually  made  with  berries  or  small  fruit  (pulp,  seeds  and  skin),  cooked  with 
an  equal  quantity  of  sugar. 

GENERAL  RULES 

Prepare  fruit  and  weigh.  Measure  an  equal  quantity  of  sugar;  heat  it.  Cook  the  fruit 
mash  with  a  wooden  spoon  while  cooking,  and  stir  to  prevent  burning.  Cook  30  minutes, 
or  until  soft.  Add  heated  sugar  and  cook  20  minutes,  or  until  thick.  Put  into  heated  ster- 
ilized jars  or  glasses,  cool  and  cover  as  for  jellies. 

Pickling  is  preserving  in  any  salt  or  acid  liquor. 

GENERAL  RULES  FOR   COOKING  DRIED  FRUIT 

Wash  fruit  thoroly  in  seA'eral  waters.  Cover  with  cold  water  and  soak  several  hours 
or  over  night.  Pour  the  water  in  which  the  fruit  has  been  soaked  into  a  saucepan.  Heat 
to  boiling  point.     Add  the   soaked  fruit. 

Cook  until  fruit  is  soft.     If  not  sweet  enough  add  sugar  and  eook  five  minutes  longer. 

NOTES: 


[Lesson  65B] 


COOKED   FRUITS 


[Page  167] 


CRANBERRY  SAUCE 

4  c.  cranberries  li^  c.  sugar  1  c.  boiling  water 

Pick  over  and  wash  berries.     Put   into  a  saucepan  with  the   boiling  water  and  sugar, 
cover,  and  boil  slowly  10  minutes. 

Stick  cinnamon  and  quartered  apples  may  be  cooked  with  the  cranberries. 


CRANBERRY  JELLY 

4   c.    cranberries  ■  2    c.   boiling   water  Sugar 

Pick  over  and  wash  berries;  put  into  a  saucepan  with  the  water  and  boil  15  minutes, 
or  until  all  the  berries  break  open.  Strain;  add  as  much  sugar  as  juice  obtained;  boil  mix- 
ture 10  minutes  and  pour  into  moulds;  cool  and  cover.  Jellied  cranberries  may  be  made 
by  cooking  the  berries  in  the  sugar  and  water,  pressing  them  occasionally  while  cooking  until 
"they  burst.     Pour  into  moulds  and  cool. 


STEWED  APRICOTS 

3%  c.  dried  apricots  i/^  c.  sugar 

Follow  directions  for  cooking  dried  fruit  in  Lesson  6 5 A. 


3  c.  boiling  water 


STEWED  PRUNES 

3  c.  or  1  lb.  prunes  %   c.   sugar 

3  c.  boiling  water  2  tbsp.  lemon  juice 

Follow  directions  for  cooking  dried  fruit  in  Lesson  65A.  Add  the  lemon  juice  just  before 
taking  off  the  fire. 

ORANGE  MARMALADE   (California  Recipe) 

Select  six  large  juicy  oranges.  Wash,  cut  in  quarters,  slice  quarters  as  thin  as  possible; 
add  the  juice  of  two  lemons. 

To  each  poimd  of  fruit  add  2  pts.  of  water,  let  stand  uncovered  24  hours,  then  boil  45 
minutes;  again  let  stand  uncovered  24  hours.  Add  pound  of  sugar  to  pound  of  fruit  and 
boil  45  minutes,  or  until  it  jells  when  a  little  ig  tried  oa  a  odd  pldte.  Pour  into  sterilized 
glasses.     Label, 


[Page  168] 


BASIC  PRINCIPLES  OF  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE 


[Lesson  66A] 


ACID  AND  SALT  SUPPLYING  FOODS 

SALADS 

Simple  Salads  consist  of  fresh  vegetables  which  req-uire  no  cooking — as  Lettuce,  Endive, 
Cress,  etc.,  served  with  a  dressing.  Cooked  vegetables,  meat,  fish,  eggs,  cheese,  or  fruits  are 
also  used  for  salads. 

A  salad  must  be  served  cold. 

The  salad  should  be  prepared  daintily,  and  arranged  attractively. 

Lettuce  and  other  salad  plants  should  be  fresh,  crisp  and  clean. 

Wash  thoroly  leaf  by  leaf,  chill  in  very  cold  water,  and  dry  by  pressing  between  clean 
dry  towels. 

Do  not  add  the  salad   dressing  to  greens  until  just  before  serving. 

Use  a  fork  in  mixing  salad  ingredients. 

Do  hot  leave  a  metal  spoon  or  fork  in  the  salad  ingredients  any  length  of  time,  as  a 
poisonous  compound  may  be  formed. 

Salad  greens  are  valuable  for  the  water  and  potash  salts  they  contain. 

A  meat,  fish  or  egg  salad  served  with  a  cooked  or  mayonnaise  dressing,  contains  a  great 
deal  of  nourishment,  and  when  served  should  be  one  of  the  chief  foods  of  the  meal. 

Serve  a  vegetable  or  a  fruit  salad  with  a  hearty  meal. 

FRENCH  SALAD  DRESSING 

V2  tsp.  salt  Vs  tsp.  paprika  4  tbsp.  oil 

1/4  tsp.  pepper  2  tbsp.  vinegar 

Mix  ingredients  in  order  given,  stirring  vigorously.. 

To  MARINATE  means  to  moisten  a  salad  mixture  with  French  Dressing  and  then  allow 
it  to  stand  until  well  seasoned. 


1  tbsp.  vinegar 
%  to  1  c.  olive  oil 


MAYONNAISE  DRESSING 

%  tsp.  salt  Vs  tsp.  paprika 

%  tsp.  sugar  Yolk  1  egg 

1  tbsp.  lemon  juice 

Mix  dry  ingredients;  add  yolk.  When  well  mixed,  add  ^2  tsp.  vinegar.  Add  oil  grad- 
ually, at  first  drop  by  drop,  and  stirring  constantly.  When  very  thick,  add  a  few  drops  of 
vinegar  or  lemon  juice,  and  continue  to  beat,  adding  oil  and  vinegar  alternately,  until  the 
mixture  is  smoothly  blended.  The  dressing  should  be  thick  enough  to  hold  its  shape.  A  Dover 
egg-beater  is  considered  time  and  labor  saving  when  used  in  beating  the  ingredients. 

FRUIT  SALAD  DRESSING 

3  yolks  Vs  c.  vinegar  Whipped  cream 

1/3  c.  sugar  1/4  tsp.  salt 

Mix  the  yolks,  sugar,  salt  and  vinegar.  Cook  in  a  double  boiler  until  thickened,  stirring 
all  the  time.    Remove  from  fire;  when  cool,  add  the  desired  quantity  of  whipped  cream. 

Prepared  mustard  may  be  added  to  this  dressing,  using  less  sugar,  it  is  then  suitable 
for  meat  or  vegetable  combinations. 

BOILED  SALAD  DRESSING  (See  Lesson  16B) 
NOTE. — Do  not  dilute  vinegar  with  water;  if  too  acid,  use  less  of  the  vinegar. 


Fruit  Salad 


[Lesson  66B] 


SALADS 


[Page  169] 


WATER  LILY  SALAD 
Remove  shells  from  hard-cooked  eggs.    Cut  eggs  in  halves  crosswise  or  lengthwise,  cutting 
in  such  a  way  that  the  edges  will  be  cut  into  sharp  points.     Remove  yolk,  mash  and  season 
with  salt,  pepper  and  melted  butter,  or  moisten  with  salad  dressings.     Refill  whites  with  the 
yolk  mixture,  and  arrange  halves  on  lettuce  leaves.     Serve  with  cooked  salad  dressing. 


MEAT  SALAD   (Chicken  or  Veal) 
Remove  bones  and  gristle,  fat  and  skin,  from  cold  cooked  meat.     Cut  meat  into  %-inch 
cubes  and  mix  with  it  an  equal  amount  of  celery  which  has  been  scraped,  chilled  and  cut  in 
small    pieces.      Marinate    with    French    Dressing.      Add    mayonnaise    dressing    to    moisten. 
Arrange  on  lettuce  leaves;   garnish  with  curled  celery. 

WALDORF   SALAD 
Enough  salad  dressing  to  moisten  1  c.  cubed  apple  1  c.  celery  1  c.  nut   meats 

Cut  slice  from  tops  of  green  or  red  apples;  scoop  out  the  inside  pulp,  leaving  just  enough 
to  hold  the  skin  in  place.     Fill  the  shells  with  the  salad  mixture  and  serve  on  lettuce  leaves. 

FRUIT  SALAD 

2  oranges  %  lb.  malaga  grapes 

3  bananas  "  4  slices   pineapple    (cubed) 

Mix  with  whipped  cream  or  fruit  salad  dressing. 

May  be  served  in  orange  cups. 

RUSSIAN  SALAD 
1  c.  cold  cooked  carrots   (cubed)  1  c.  cold  cooked  peas 

1  c.  cold  cooked  potatoes   (cubed  1  c.  cold  cooked  string  beans 

Marinate  with  French  Dressing.  Arrange  vegetables  in  a  mound;  make  four  sections. 
Cover  two  sections  with  finely  chopped  whites  of  hard-cooked  eggs,  and  the  other  two  with 
the  hard-cooked  yolks  forced  thru  a  potato  ricer  or  strainer.     Garnish  with  parsley. 


12  walnuts 

Salad  dressing  to  moisten 


TOMATO  SALAD 

8  medium  sized  tomatoes  2  c.  celery  or  cucumber  cut  in  cubes  1  c.  Mayonnaise  dressing 
Scald  and  peel  tomatoes;  slice  off  their  tops.  Scrape  out  the  seeds  and  a  little  of  the 
pulp,  and  fill  cavities  with  the  celery  or  cucumber,  mixed  with  mayonnaise  dressing,  or  fill 
with  shredded  pineapple  and  nuts  mixed  with  mayonnaise  dressing.  Tomato  may  be  cut 
to  imitate  a  tiger  lily  bv  cutting  into  sixths  almost  to  the  stem  end.     Serve  on  lettuce  leaves. 


[Page  170]  BASIC  PRINCIPLES  OF  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  [Lesson    67A] 

BEVERAGES 

A  Beverage  is  any  drink.    All  beverages  contain  a  large  percentage  of  water. 

Use  freshly  boiled  water  for  making  hot  beverages. 

Use  freshly  drawn  water  for  making  cold  beverages. 

Beverages  are:  1.  Water.  2.  Natural  fruit  juices.  3.  Aromatics.  Example:  Tea, 
coffeCj  cocoa,  chocolate.  • 

TEA 

Tea  is  a  native  of  China,  Japan  and  North  East  India. 

Tea  is  made  from  the  leaves  of  an  evergreen  plant. 

Tea  leaves  have  to  be  wilted,  rolled  and  dried  by  artificial  heat  in  order  to  develop  their 
flavor. 

Green  Tea  is  made  from  freshly  picked  young  leaves,  which  are  prepared  quickly  by 
drying  them  by  heat  or  steam;  they  are  sweated  or  roasted  soon  after  gathering.  Example: 
Gunpowder,  Hyson  and  Japan. 

Black  Tea  is  made  from  the  leaves  left  in  a  heap  on  the  ground  in  the  sun,  allowing 
them  to  ferment,  in  order  to  darken  and  develop  a  different  flavor  before  being  rolled. 
Example:   Oolong,  English  Breakfast,  etc. 

Tea   contains   a   stimulating   substance   called   THEIN,   and   TANNIN. 

Do  not  use  a  tin  teapot,  because  of  the  tannin  in  the  tea. 

Tea  increases  perspiration,  and  helps  tired  nerves  to  recover. 

People  who  do  severe  muscular  labor  are  refreshed  by  a  cup  of  tea. 

COFFEE 

Coffee  is  made  from  the  seeds  of  the  coffee  plant  grown  in  Africa,  Mocha,  Costa  Rica, 
Brazil,  Ceylon  and  Jamaica. 

The  seeds  of  the  berries  of  the  coffee  trees  are  roasted  in  order  to  develop  the  aroma. 

Coffee  contains   a  stimulating   substance   called   CAFFEINE,   and  TANNIN. 

Coffee  increases  the  action  of  the  heart,  excites  mucous  membrane,  decreases  the  action 
of  the  skin,  and  is  a  powerful  antidote. 

Tannin  is  the  injurious  substance  found  in  tea  and  coffee.  It  is  extracted  by .  boiling, 
therefore  tea  should  always  be  infused  and  never  boiled  or  allowed  to  steep  too  long. 

Filtered  coffee  is  preferable  to  boiled  coffee.  Children  and  young  people  who  have  not 
stopped  growing  should  not  drink  tea  or  coffee. 

Tea  and  Coffee  should  never  be  taken  on  an  empty  stomach  unless  for  medicinal  purpoaea. 

COCOA   AND    CHOCOLATE 

Cocoa  and  Chocolate  are  prepared  from  the  seeds  of  the  cocoa  beans  dried  and  roasted. 

Cocoa  Beans  contain  so  much  fat  that  when  ground  they  become  not  powder  but  paste. 
This  paste  forms  Chocolate. 

Cocoa  is  made  by  grinding  the  Cocoa  Beans,  extracting  the  oil,  leaving  a  dry  powder. 

Chocolate  and  Cocoa  are  a  food  as  well  as  a  stimulant.  They  contain  theobromine,  a 
substance  similar  to  caffeine. 

NOTES: 


[Lesson  67B]  BEVERAGES  [Page  171] 

TEA 

To  Make  Tea.  Allow  one  teaspoonful  of  tea  to  each  cup  of  boiling  water.  Scald  the 
teapot  with  boiling  water,  put  in  the  tea,  pour  on  the  boiling  water,  and  let  it  stand  covered 
from  three  to  five  minutes. 

COFFEE 

To  Make  Filtered  Coffee,  allow  1  tbsp.  of  pulverized  coffee  to  1  c.  boiling  water.  Scald 
the  coffee  pot.  Put  coffee  in  strainer;  strainer  in  coiTee  pot;  put  on  the  range.  Add  gradually 
the  boiling  water  and  allow  it  to  filter.  Cover  between  additions  of  water.  If  desired 
stronger,  refilter.     This  is  considered  the  most  economical  way  of  preparing  coffee. 

BOILED  COFFEE 

%   c.  coffee  y-2  c.  cold  water  1  egg  6  c.  boiling  water 

Scald  graniteware  coffee  pot.  Wash  the  egg,  break,  and  beat  it  slightly.  Dilute  with 
one-half  of  the  cold  water;  add  crushed  shell  to  it  and  mix  with  coffee.  Turn  into  coffee 
pot,  pour  on  boiling  water  and  stir  thoroly.  Place  on  fire  and  boil  3  minutes.  If  not  boiled, 
coffee  is  cloudy;  if  boiled  too  long  too  much  tannic  acid  is  developed.  The  spout  of  the 
coffee  pot  should  be  stuffed  with  soft  paper  to  prevent  the  escape  of  fragrant  aroma.  Add 
remaining  half  of  cold  water,  let  it  stand  10.  minutes  on  back  of  range. 

Left-over  coffee  may  be  used  if  poured  off  the  grounds  immediately.  Keep  it  in  a  cool 
place  until  needed.     Never  reheat  coffee  on  the  grounds. 

Boiling  coffee  in  large  bags  is  considered  the  least  economical  method  of  preparing  coffee, 
as  more  coffee  must  be  used  in  proportion  to  the  quantity  of  water. 

BREAKFAST  COCOA 

2  c.  scalded  milk  Few  grains  salt  2  to  4  tbsp.  sugar 

2  c.  boiling  water  2  tbsp.  prepared  cocoa 

Mix  dry  ingredients  in  saucepan;  stir  in  boiling  water  gradually  and  boil  5  minutes. 
Add  milk  and  cook  5  minutes  longer,  or  until  smooth  and  free  from  lumps.  Mill  with  a 
Dover  egg-beater  to  prevent  albuminous  skin  from  forming  on  top. 


A  cup  of  chocolate  with  sandwiches.  This  combination  makes  a  wholesome  and  nutritioua 
lunch. 

CHOCOLATE 

11/2   sqrs.  Baker's   Chocolate       Few  grains   salt  4  c.  milk 

4  tbsp.  sugar  1  c.  boiling  water 

Scald  milk;  melt  chocolate  in  small  saucepan  placed  over  hot  water;  add  sugar;  salt, 
and  gradually  boiling  water  while  stirring;  when  smooth,  place  over  the  fire,  and  boil  one 
minute;  add 'to  scalded  milk.  Mill  by  beating  with  Dover  egg-beater,  and  serve.  Whipped 
cream  or  a  marshmallow  may  be  served  on  top  of  the  chocolate. 


[Page  172] 


BASIC  PRINCIPLES  OF  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE 


[Lesson  68A] 


INVALID  COOKERY 

The  selection,  preparation  and  serving  of  food  for  invalids  is  of  greatest  importance. 

The  food  should  be  suited  to  the  digestive  powers  of  the  patient,  should  be  perfectly 
cooked  and  served  attractively  in  small  quantities.  In  serious  illness  consult  the  physician  in 
attendance,  and  follow  his  directions  exactly.  Death  may  result  irom  giving  forbidden  articles 
of  food. 

All  food  is  changed  into  liquid  during  the  process  of  digestion,  before  it  can  be  absorbed 
into  the  blood.  Liquid  food  carefully  selected  can  therefore  be  digested  with  the  smallest 
amount  of  exertion  to  the  body. 

(Liquid 
Semi-solid  or  soft  diet 
Solid  or  full  diet 

Liquids. — Stimulants  are  boiled  beef  tea,  broths,  coffee,  tea. 

Nutrients. — Milk,  frozen  cream,  barley  •  water,  rice  water,  oatmeal  water,  toast  water, 
albumenized  milk,  albumenized  fruit  waters,  egg-noggs,  chocolate,  cocoa,  bottled  beef  tea 
(Lesson  41A).  etc. 

Refreshing  Beverages  are  lemonade,  orangeade,  grape  juice  and  water,  currant,  tamarind 
and  apple  water,  etc. 

The  fruit  waters  are  cooling,  refreshing  and  mildly  stimulating,  and  are  given  to  fever 
patients. 

Fruits  are  valuable  for  the  salts  and  acids  they  contain. 

Semi-Solids. — Gruels — arrow-root,  farina,  oatmeal,  cracker,  Indian  meal.  Mushes — cooked 
cereals.  Cream  soups  (Lesson  llB).  Oyster  stew  (Lesson  51B).  Cooked  eggs  (Lesson  35B). 
Custards  (Lesson  36B).  Soft  toast  (Lesson  7B).  Gelatine  desserts  (Lessons  52B  and 
53B),  etc.      ■ 

Solids. — Raw  Oysters — Chicken  (Lesson  45B) .  Broiled  chops  (Lesson  42B) .  Baked  potato 
(Lesson  19B).  Hot  sandwiches  (Lesson  8B).  Foods  that  are  nutritious  and  easily  digestible 
are  included  in  the  full  diet. 

Gruels  and  the  various  breakfast  foods,  thoroly  cooked,  with  or  without  fruit,  are 
valuable. 

Corn  and  oatmeal  gruels  should  not  be  given  in  inflammatory  cases,  as  they  are  heat- 
producing. 

The  starch  in  arrow-root  is  more  easily  digested  than  any  other  form  of  starch. 

Cooked  eggs,  dropped  eggs  on  toast,  scrambled,  omelets,  etc.,  soft  custards,  baked  cus- 
tards, and  the  fruit  whips  made  with  white  of  egg,  and  sweetened  fruit,  are  all  nutrients 
and  easily  digested. 

Frozen  cream  and  cream  whips  with  gelatine  are  very  valuable 
dishes  in  the  sick  room,  as  they  are  both  highly  nutritious  and 
palatable. 

The  cream  soups,  oyster  stew,  etc.,  with  toast  or  crackers,  make 
a  desirable  lunch  for  a  convalescent. 

Set  the  tray  just  as  daintily  as  possible. 

Use  the  best  china,  etc.,  lay  a  blossom  on  the  tray,  or  anything 
to  please  the  eye. 

Serve  hot  dishes  hot;  cold  dishes  cold. 

Serve  one  course  at  a  time.  Have  as  many 
surprises  as  possible. 

In  contagious  diseases  all  dishes,  plates 
knives,  forka,  etc..  should  be  sterilized  (by  put- 
ting them  in  cold  water,  bringing  them  to 
boiling  point  and  boihng  30min.),  after  each 
time  they  have  been  used.  Burn  all  particles  of 
food  left  over. 


NOTES: 


EGG-NOG 


tLesson  68B] 


INVALID  COOKERY 


[Page  173] 


LIQUIDS— BARLEY  WATER 

1%  tbsp.  pearl  barley  Sugar  to  taste 

1  qt.  cold  water  2  tbsp.  lemon  juice  or  more 

Wash  then  soak  BARLEY  in  cold  water  over  night.  Boil  in  the  same  water  several 
hours.  Strain,  add  lemon  juice  and  sugar.  Strawberry,  raspberry  or  grape  juice  may  be 
added.     Soothing  and  refreshing.     Valuable  in  bronchial  or  pulmonary  trouble. 

RICE  WATER 

1  tbsp.  rice  2  c.  water  Salt  Milk,  cream  or  fruit  juice 

Heat  water  to  boiling  point;  wash  rice;  add  rice  and  salt  to  boiling  water,  cook  until  rice 

is  soft,  strain,  add  cream  or  fruit  juice  to  the  water. 

BARLEY  and  Rice  waters  are  known  as  astringents.  If  stick  cinnamon  be  cooked  with 

the  rice  or  barley,  it  will  help  to  produce  a  laxative  condition. 

TOAST  WATER 

EQUAL  measures  of  stale  bread,  toasted,  and  boiling  water.  Let  stand  one  hour.  Season, 
strain^  serve  hot  or  cold.     Given  in  extreme  cases  of  nausea. 

ORANGE  ALBUMEN 
White  1  egg  Juice  1  sour  orange  Sugar  to  taste 

3  tbsp.  crushed  ice 
Beat  wh_;ite  ot  egg  slightly,  add  orange  juice  and  crushed  ice.   Mix  in  a  glass  and  sweeten 
to  taste.    Lemon  may  be  used  in  place  of  the  orange. 

MILK  ALBUMEN 

White  1  egg  %   c  milk 

Beat  white  slightly;   add  milk  and  salt. 

EGG   NOGG 

1  egg  %  c.  milk 

%  tbsp.  sugar  Few   grs.   salt 

Beat  egg  slightly,,  add  sugar,  salt  and  flavoring,  and  then  add  the  milk  gradually, 
and   serve. 

OATMEAL   GRUEL 

1/^  c.  oatmeal  (rolled  oats)  11/2  qts.  water  %  c.  cream  1  tsp.  salt 

Cook' oatmeal  in  the  water  and  salt  for  three  hours  or  more.     Strain, 
ishins  and  fattening.     Valuable  in  anaemic  and  tubercular  cases. 


Few  grains  salt 


tbsp.  vanilla   or  other 
flavoring 


Strain 


Add  cream.    Nour- 


Egg   in   Nest 


[Page  174]  BASIC  PRINCIPLES  OF  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  [Lesson  69A] 


DIETARY  STUDIES 

The  calorie  is  the  unit  of  heat  or  energy  of  the  human  body.  It  is  the  basis  for  deter- 
mining the  fuel  value  of  foods. 

STANDARD  FOR  PERSON  ENGAGED  IN  MODERATE  MUSCULAR  WORK 

As  given  by  C.  F.  Langworthy,  of  the  U.  S.  Department  of  Agriculture 

Calories 

Protein,  105  grams   (0.231  lb.)   to  yield 419 

Fats,  125  grams   (0.275  lb.)   to  yield 1,100 

Carbohydrates,  495  grams   (1.09  lb.)   to  yield 1,981 

Total   ." .3,500 

This  standard  is  intended  to  represent  the  food  actually  eaten  and  does  not  include 
waste  of  any  kind. 

STANDARDS  FOR  FOOD  AS  PURCHASED 

Calories 

Protein,  115  grams   (0.253  lb.)   yielding 460 

Fats,   125  grams   (0.275  lb.)    yielding 1,100 

Carbohydrates,  560  grams    (1.235   lb.)    yielding 2,240 

Total 3,800 

Factors  used  in  calculating  meals  consumed  in  dietary  studies  are  as  follows: 

Man  at  hard  muscular  work  requires  1.2  the  food  of  a  man  at  moderately  active 
muscular  work. 

Man  with  light  muscular  work  and  boy  15  to  16  years  old  requires  0.9  the  food  of  a 
man  at   moderately  active  muscular  work. 

Man  at  sedentary  occupation,  woman  at  moderately  active  work,  boy  13  to  14  and  girl  15 
to  16  years  old  require  0.8  the  food  of  a  man  at  moderately  active  muscular  work. 

Woman  at  light  work,  boy  12,  and  girl  13  to  14  years  old  require  0.7  the  food  of  a  man 
at  moderately  active  muscular  work. 

Boy  10  to  11  and  girl  10  to  12  years  old  require  0.6  the  food  of  a  man  at  moderately 
active  muscular  work. 

Child  6  to  9  years  old  requires  0.5  the  food  of  a  man  at  moderately  active  muscular 
work. 

Child  2  to  5  years  old  requires  0.4  the  food  of  a  man  at  moderately  active  muscular  work. 

Child  under  2  years  old  requires  0.3  the  food  of  a  man  at  moderately  active  muscular 
work. 

With  this  information,  and  aided  by  the  tables  published  by  the  U.  S.  Government,  we 
can  easily  make  an  estimate  of  the  nutrients  contained  in  each  meal  and  arrange  the  day's 
menu  so  it  will  conform  with  the  required  standard.  When  calculations  are  necessary,  the 
following  table   may  be   of  assistance: 

1  pound  equals  453.54  grams. 

1  gram  of  protein    yields    about    4    calories. 

1  gram  of  fat    yields   about   8.90   calories. 

1  gram  of  carbohydrates   jnelds    4   calories, 
U.    S.    Department    of    Agriculture. 
References  Farmers'  Bulletin  No.  142. 


[Lesson  69B] 


DIETARY  STUDIES 


[Page  175]i 


MENU  IX. — For  family  eqivalent  to  4  men  at  moderate  muscular  work 


FOOD  MATERIALS                 i 

Weight 

Cost 

Protein 

Fuel 

Value 

Corn  meal,  in  mush  and  cake 
Milk 

Breakfast 

Lbs. 
0 

Oz. 

.  5 
6 
2 

10 
2 

Cents 

1 

1 
i 
2i 
3 

Pounds 

0.022 

.012 

CaloHes 
414 

64 

Sugar • 

232 

Toast 

.059 

753 

434 

Total 

8 

.093 

1,894 

' 

Dinner 

Weight 

Cost 

Protein 

Fuel 
Value 

Supper 

Beans,  baked.. 
Pork 

2 
1 

0 
12 

8 
2 

10 
2 

6 
6 

2 
1 

2i 
3 

.446 
.012 

.026 

3,180 
2,558 

Beef  roll 

lbs.    oz. 

3        0 

1        8 

8 

10 
2 

Cts. 

15 

2 

1 

2i 
3 

Lbs. 

.417 
.026 
.007 
.059 

Clrs. 

2,280 

488 

85 

753 

434 

Potatoes, - 

fried 

Lard 

488 

Beets 

537 

.059 

753 

Butter 

Butter 

Total     .    . 

434 

Total  

23§  1      509 

4.040 

20i 

.543 

7,948 

Total  per  day,  Breakfast,  Dinner,  and  Supper. 

201 

1.145 

13,885 

per 

Tntnl  for  one  man,  Brea 

kfast,  D 

nner. 

and  Sup 

13 

.285 

3,471 

MENU  X. — ^For  family  equivalent  to  4  men  at  moderate  muscular  work 


FOOD  MATERIALS 

Weight 

Cost 

Protein 

Fuel 
Value 

Breakfast 

Lbs.    Oz. 

0  6 

1  0 
2 

1          0 

10 

1 

Cents 
2 

li 

i 

3^ 
6 

Pounds 

0.059 

.034 

Calories 

697 

170 

232 

.095 
.080 

1,205 

1,358 

217 

Total ....              

141 

.268 

3,879 

Dinner 

2  8 

3  0 
12 

4 

2          0 

12 

15 
3 
1 

1 
3' 
1 

.430 
.054 
.013 

.022 
.068 
.020 

2,988 

975 

105 

Corn-meal  pudding: 

414 

340 

987 

Total                                                            

22J 

.604 

5,809 

Supper 

1  8 

2  0 
2 

2          0 

3 
6 
3 
6 

.086 
.340 

598 

2,600 

Butter                                                                            

434 

Milk,  1  quart                                  .        .               

.033 

325 

Total                                                                       

18 

.259 

3,957 

55 

1.134 

3,645 

Total  for  one  man 

1            14 

.285 

3,411 

U.  S.  Department  of  Agriculture. 


[Page  176] 


BASIC  PRINCIPLES  OF  DOMESTIC   SCIENCE 


[Lesson  70 A] 


Average  Composition  of  American  Food  Products 
Food  materials  (as  purchased). 


From  the  U.  S.  Department  of  Agriculture 


Animal  Food 

Refuse 
Per  cent 

Water 
Per  cent 

Protein 
Per   cent 

Fat 
Per  cent 

Carbo- 
hydrates 
Per  cent 

Ash 
Per  cent 

Fuel 

Value 

Per  lb. 

Calories 

BEEF,  Fresh: 

17.3 
19.1 
5.5 
13.3 

12.7 

12.8 

20.1 

8.5 

8.4 
6.0 

4.7 

23.3 
11.7 
3.4 

9.9 
17.7 
22.1 

19.1 
13.8 

18.0 
10.3 
19.3 
12.4 

54.0 
53.8 
56.1 
52.9 
52.4 
54.0 
45.3 
62.5 

49.2 
58.9 
53.7 

52.5 
63.4 
68.3 

39.0 
51.9 
46.8 

45.5 
50.3 

48.5 
45.1 
40.8 
44.9 
66.5 

35.8 

30.7 

7.9 

18.4 

55.2 
22.2 
57.2 

88.6 
92.9 
84.5 
90.0 

43.7 
47.1 
38.5 
42.4 

58  5 
61.9 
40.4 
50.7 
35.2 
71.2 
'    40.2 

56.8 
53.6 

88.3 
80.8 
36.7 
30.7 

15.8 
15.3 
18.6 
16.4 
19.1 
16.5 
14.4 
19.2 

14.3 
11.9 
26.4 

15.7 
18.3 
20.1 

13.8 
15.4 
13.7 

15.4 
16,0 

15.1 
14.3 
13.2 
12  0 
18.9 

14.5 
12.6 
1.9 
9.5 

18.2 
27.9 
19.6 

2.1 

4.4 
4.6 
1.8 

12.8 
13.7 
13.4 
16.1 

11.1 
15.3 
10.2 
12.8 
9.4- 
20.9 
16.0 

19.5 
23.7 

6.0 
10.6 
7.9 
5.9 

12.5 
11.1 
19.9 
16.9 
17.9 
16.1 
20.0 
9.2 

23.8 
19.2 
6.9 

8.2 
5.8 
7.5 

36.9 
14.5 
17.1 

19.1 
19.7 

18.6 
29.7 
26.0 
29  8 
13.0 

33  2 
33.0 
86.2 
59.4 

19.7 
40.4 
18.6 

2.8 

.4 

4.3 

1.1 

1.4 
12.3 
29.8 
18.4 

.2 
4.4 
4.2 

.7 
4.8 
3.8 

.4 

7.5 
12.1 

1.3 
1.1 

.9 

.7 

0  7 

701 

1 

8 
8 
9 
8 
9 
7 

n 

726 

Flank 

h,141 

980 

1,069 

949 

Ribs 

1,06? 

720 

BEEF,    Corned,     Canned,     Pickled    and 
Dried: 

4.6 
4.3 

8.9 

.8 
1.0 
1.0 

.6 

.8 
.7     ■ 

.8 
.9 

.7 

.8 

.8 

.7 

1.0 

4  2 
5.0 
3.9 
4.5 

3.8 
7.3 
3.4 

1.5 
1.2 
1.1 
1.5 

.7 
.7 
.7 
.8 

.8 
.9 
.T 
.9 
.7 
l.S 
18.5 

2.0 
5.3 

1.1 
2.3 
1.5 

.8 

1,220 

991 

757 

VEAL: 

616 

566 

667 

MUTTON: 

Flank 

1,740 

865 

939 

LAMB: 

\ 

1,050 

1,086 

PORK,  Fresh: 

Flank 

1,025 

1,458 

1,289 

1,421 

868 

PORK,  Salted,  Cured  and  Pickled: 

12.2 
18.9 

i,eo3 

1,561 

3,514 

8.7 

3.3 
3.9 

2,570 

SAUSAGE: 

1,126 

2,100 

Frankfort 

1.1 

5.0 
1.1 
5.5 
5.6 

1,126 

SOUPS: 

242 

Beef 

116 

Meat  stew 

357 

179 

POULTRY: 

Chicken,  broilers 

41.6 
25.9 
17.6 
22.7 

29.9 
17.7 
44.7 
35.1 
50.1 

289 

745 

1,446 

Turkey 

1,035 

FISH: 

209 

455 

355 

260 

Shad,  whole 

364 

2.6 

580 

FISH,  Salt:     Cod 

24.9 

14.2 
5.0 

306 

FISH,  Canned: 

657 

918 

SHELLFISH: 

3.3 

5.2 

.6 

.2 

221 

331 

62.4 
61.7 

191 

Lobsters 

139 

NOTES: 


[Lesson  70B] 


DIETARY  STUDIES 


[Page  177] 


MENU  IV.— For  family  equivalent  to  4  men  at  moderate  muscular  work 


FOOD  MATERIALS 

Wei 

ght 

Cost 

Protein 

Fuel 
■Value 

Breakfast 

Lbs. 
2 

0 

8 
10 

3 
10 

8 

4 

8 
2 

Cents 
2 

41 

11 
1 

1      ' 

4 
3i 

Pounds 

O.OOS 

f         .041 

1         .020 

Calories 
510 

823 

Milk ,           ..                                                            

202 

350 

.099 
.009 

/         .032 
1         .057 

650 

162 

Muffins: 

162 

820 

Butter 

435 

Coffee     .                                                                                 -    -    - 

.010 

410 

Total 

31 

.276 

4.521 

Dinner 

2 
2 
3 

1 

0 
0 
0 

2 
8 
4 
4 

1 
4 
12 
1 

6 

20 

41 

1 

t      ' 
}      ' 

3 

2 

.036 
.332 
.054 

f         .016 
.006 

370 

1,350 

Potatoes 

975 

Apple  dumpling: 

81 

382 

1,055 

[         .028 
/ 

410 

Sauce  for  dumpling: 

217 

1 

465 

.071 

904 

217 

31 

.010 

410 

Total 

50 

.553 

6,836 

Supper  or  Lunch 

1 
1 

8 
8 
12 
Is 
4 
6 

6 

1 
4 
3 
7 
2 

.142 
.009 
.070 

660 

162 

1,297 

325 

.007 
.046 

400 

234 

Total 

23 

.274 

2,987 

104 

1.103 

14,333 

1              26 

.275 

3,585 

U.  S.  Department  of  Agriculture. 


r^age  178]  BASIC  PRINCIPLES  OF  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  [Lesson  71A] 

Menus  for  Balanced  Meals 


[Lesson  YlB] 


BASIC  PRINCIPLES  OF  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE 


[Page  179] 


MENU  I.— For  family  equivalent  to  4  men  at  moderate  muscular  work 


FOOD  MATERIALS 


Cereal,  oatmeal. 
Milk. 


Breakfast 


Sugar 

Bacon 

Eggs,  4 

Baked  potatoes 

Buckwheat  cakes,  prepared  buckwheat. 

Maple  syrup 

Bread 

Butter 

Coffee 


Total. 


Bouillon 

Roast  lamb,  leg 

Mashed  potatoes 

Cucumbers 

Green  peas,  shelled 

Macaroni. ..-. 

Cheese 

Fruit  pudding: 

1  cup  flour 

Sugar 

1  egg 

i  cup  milk 

1  cup  fruit 

Foamy  sauce  for  pudding: 

1  egg 

i  cup  milk 

i  cup  sugar 

Bread 

Butter 

Tea  or  coffee 


Dinner 


Total. 


Chicken  croquettes: 

Chicken  meat. . 

Flour 

Onions 

1  egg 

Bread 

Lettuce 

Bread 

Butter 

Cake. 


Supper  or  Lunch 


Berries .•  • 

Chocolate  or  cocoa,  with  inilk  and  sugar,  cream. 


Total 

Total  per  day 

Total  for  one  man . 


Weight 


Lbs.    Oz. 
0  3 

6 
2 


Cost 


Cents 

8 


35J 


Protein 


Pounds 

0.029 

.012 


.046 
.005 
.018 
.034 


.048 

;6i6' 


.262 


020 
228 
018 
009 
072 
029 
049 

028 

. 

016 
008 
013 

016 
010 

036 

010 

.502 


.114 
.107 
.001 
.016 
.012 
.005 
.048 


.026 
.010 
.030 


Fuel 
Value 


Calories 
350 
64 
232 
1,390 
322 
325 
780 
327 
fi03 
225 
410 


1  093 
.270 


5,028 


45 

1,282 

325 

52 
382 
410 
369 

410 

465 
81 
81 

817 

81 
102 
465 
452 
217 
410 


6,446 


250 
103 
13 
81 
151 
42 
603 
325 
619 
175 
625 


.2698  e       2,987 


14,461 
3,615 


U.  S.  Department  of  Agricultme. 


[Page  180]  BASIC  PRINCIPLES  OF  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  [Lesson  72AT 

TEST  QUESTIONS 


COMPANY  LUNCHEON 

YELLOW  COLOR  SCHEME 

Cream  of  Veal  Soup 

Garnished  with  Yellow  Custard 

Curled  Celery  Olives 

Meat  Croquettes  * 

Buttered  Carrots  and  Peas  in  Potato  Cases  Bechamel  Sauce 

Fruit  Salad  in  Orange  Cups 

Cheese  Straws  Salted  Almonds 

Lemon   Pudding 

Angel's  Food  Whipped  Cream 

Co  (Toe 


^^ason  72B]  COMPANY  LUNCHEON  [Page  lai] 


'-^*^  %-~    -         "*-*^ 


MENU  II 

PINK    COLOR    SCHEME 

Crab  Meat  Cocktail 
Cream  of  Tomato  Soup  Zephyrettes 

Lamb   Chops 

Creamed  Potatoes  Relish  in  Lemon  Boats 

Rolls  Butter  Balls 

Neufchatel  Cheese  and  Pimento  Salad 
Salad  Rolls 

Strawberry  Charlotte  Strawberry  Sauce 

White  Cake — Pink   Frosting 

Coflfee 


COST  OF  PREPARING  ABOVE  MENUS  TO  SERVE  SIX 
Materials  Quantity  Cost 


[Page  182] 


BASIC  PRITSrCIPLES  OF  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE 


INDIVIDUAL  RECIPES— SEMESTER  IV. 


LESSON  55B 

1  small  piece  liver 
1  slice  bacon 
1  tsp.  bacon   fat 
1%    tsp.   flour 
Yi  c.  boiling  water 


LESSON  56B 

DOUGHNUTS  I 

2  tbsp.  sugar 

1  tsp.  butter 

1%  tbsp.  beaten  egg 

2  tbsp.  milk 

7  tbsp.  flour    (plus   enough 

to  roll)  or  %  cup  scant 

%  tsp.  B.  P. 

Few  grs.  cinnamon 

Few  grs.  nutmeg 

i/e  tsp.  salt  . 


APPLE  FRITTERS 

%    apple 

6  tbsp.  flour 

1/2     tsp.  B.   P. 

1  tbsp.  sugar 

Few  grs.  salt 

2%  tbsp.  milk 

1  tbsp.  beaten  egg 


LESSON  57B 

« 

STEAMED  BREAD 

3  tbsp.  graham  flour 
Vs  tsp.  salt 

2  tbsp.  Indian  meal 
Vs   tsp.  soda 

1  tbsp.  molasses 
31/3  tbsp.  milk 

STEAMED  PUDDING 

3  tbsp.     entire  wheat  flour 
Y(i  tsp.  soda 

i~6  tsp-  salt 

1  tbsp.  molasses 

1  tbsp.  milk 

1  tsp.  beaten  egg 

M>  tsp.  melted  butter 

2  tbsp.  raisins 


LESSON  58B 

PARKER  HOUSE  ROLLS 

1  tbsp.  boiling  water 

2  tbsp.  milk 
2  tsp.  sugar 
14  tsp.  salt 

1  tsp.  butter 
6  tbsp.  flour  (plus) 
1  yeast    cake    mixed    with 
1  tbsp.  lukewarm  water 


LESSON  59B 


WHITE  BREAD 

1  tbsp.  scalded    milk 

2  tbsp.  boiling    water 
1  tsp.  butter 

1/5  tsp.  salt 

%  tsp.  sugar 

1  yeast    cake    mixed    with 

1  tbsp.  lukewarm  water 

%  c.  flour   (plus) 


LESSON  GOB 

ORANGE  CAKE 

1  tbsp.  butter 
3%  tbsp.  sugar 

2  tbsp.  beaten  egg 
i/e  orange  rind 

2  tbsp.  milk 
7  tbsp.  flour 
Vz  tsp.  B.  P. 


CHOCOLATE  CAKE 

4  tsp.  butter 
2%  tbsp.    sugar 
4  tsp.  beaten  egg 

4  tsp.  milk 

5  tbsp.  flour 
•      1/2  tsp.  B.  P. 

%  square  chocolate  (melted 
Few  drops  vanilla 


LESSON  60A 

ORANGE  FILLING 

4  tbsp.  sugar 

1  tbsp.  flour 
%  beaten  egg 
Grated  rind   Y^  orange 

2  tbsp.  orange  juice 
1/4  tsp.  lemon  juice 


ORANGE  FROSTING 

1  tsp.  orange  juice 
1/3  tsp.  lemon  juice 
Rind  %   orange 
%  yolk  of  egg 
Confectioners'  sugar 


INDIVIDUAL  RECIPES— SEMESTER  IV. 


[Page  183] 


LESSON  61B 

CREAM  SPONGE  CAKE 
1  yolk 

4  tbsp.  sugar 
%  tbsp.  water 
1  tsp.  cornstarch 
4  tbsp.  flour 
1/2  tsp.  B.  P. 
Few  grs.  salt 
1  White  (beaten) 
Few  drops  lemon  or  vanilla 

ANGEL'S  FOOD 

1  White  (beaten) 
Vs  tsp.  C.  of  T. 

2  tbsp.  sugar 
1%   tbsp.  flour 
Few  grs.  salt 

8  drops  vanilla 

LESSON  62B 

SUGAR  COOKIES 

14   tbsp.  butter 
1  tbsp.  sugar 
Yz  tbsp.  beaten  egg 
1  tsp.  milk 

3  tbsp.  flour    (plus   enough 
to   make   a   dough) 

Vs  tsp.  B.  P. 
Few  grs.  salt 
Few  grs.  nutmeg 


PEANUT  COOKIES 

%  tbsp.  butter 
1  tbsp.  sugar 

1  tbsp.  beaten  egg 

2  tbsp.  flour 
%  tsp.  B.  P. 
Few  grs.  salt 
1%  tsp.  milk 

3  tbsp.  finely  chopped  pea- 
nuts 

Ys  tsp.  lemon  juice 

BOSTON  COOKIES 

1  tbsp.  butter 
l^tbsp.  sugar 

2  tsp.  egg 
^  tsp.  soda 

Vs  tsp.  hot  water 

3  tbsp.  flour 
Few  grs.  salt 

i\   tsp.   cinnamon 

1  tbsp.  chopped  nuts 

Vz  tbsp.  chopped  raisins 

RICH  COOKIES 

2  tsp.   sugar 

1  tbsp.  butter 
%  yolk 
%  tsp.  cream 
%  cup  flour 


LESSON  63B 
PASTRY 

%   c.  flour 

Ve  tsp.  salt 

4  tsp.  to  2%  tbsp.  butter 

About  1%  tbsp.  cold  water 

MERINGUE 

1  beaten  white 
1  tbsp.  sugar 

APPLE  FILLING 

1  large    apple 
Few  grs.  salt 

2  tbsp.  sugar 

.    %  tsp.  butter 
Few  grs.  cinnamon 
Vi  tsp.  lemon  juice 
Few  gratings  lemon  rind 
Few  grs.  nutmeg 

LEMON  FILLING 

Vs  c.  sugar 

1  tbsp.  cornstarch 

Vs  c.  boiling   water 

Vs  tsp.  butter 

1  yolk 

1 14  tbsp.  lemon  juice 

Rind  Vs  lemon 

LESSON  65B 
CRANBERRY  JELLY 

Yi  c.  cranberries 
%  c.  boiling  water 
1/3  c.  sugar 


LESSON  64B 
ORANGE  ICE 

6  tbsp.  water 

3  tbsp.  sugar 

3  tbsp.  orange  juice 

1  tsp.  lemon  juice 

Grated  rind  Vg  orange 

Few  gratings  lemon  rind 


LESSON  66A 
FRUIT  SALAD  DRESSING 

1  yolk 

1%  tbsp.  sugar 
IY2  tbsp.  vinegar 
Few  grs.  salt 

2  tbsp.whipped    cream 

LESSON  66B 
FRUIT  SALAD 

14  orange 
Vs  banana 

3  grapes 

%  slice  pineapple 

CHOCOLATE 

V4,  square  chocolate 

2  tbsp.  sugar 

3  tbsp.  boiling  water 
%  c.  milk 


[Page  134]  BASIC  PRINCIPLES  OF  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE 


NOTES:  [Page  185] 


[Page  186]  BASIC  PRINCIPLES  OF  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE 


GERMS  [Page  187] 

ADVANCED     COURSE 


BACTERIOLOGICAL  STUDY 

GERMS 

A  knowledge  of  germ  life  is  necessary  for  the  care-taker  of  tlie  home,  as  it  plays  such 
an  important  part  in  the  protection  of  the  healtli,  in  tlie  preservation  of  food  and  clothing, 
etc.,  and  for  the  development  and  preparation  of  some  foods.  To  prevent  the  distribution 
of  disease  germs  in  the  household,  is  the  hoiisekeeper's  problem.  To  prevent  contagion 
is  to  prevent  the  distribution  of  bacteria.     This  is  a  bacteriological  problem. 

Bacteria,  yeasts  and  molds  are  miscroscopic  plants  commonly  known  as  micro-organisms, 
microbes  or  germs.  The  word  "germ"  in  this  sense  meaning  that  from  which  something 
grows.  Microbe  means  a  little  living  thing.  These  invisible  organisms  are  the  smallest 
living  things  and  are  found  all  about  us.  Our  object  in  keeping  our  houses,  etc.,  clean,  is 
to  prevent  their  growth  and  to  destroy  them  where  they  are  not  wanted. 

Bacterium  is  a  miscroscopic  A^egetable  organism.  Two  or  more  are  called  Bacteria.  They 
are  the  smallest  and  simplest  of  living  organisms,  each  one  being  a  cell  composed  of  a  small 
mass  of  living  substance  or  protoplasm  inclosed  in  a  sac  or  wall.  The  substance  is  soft,  jelly 
like,  colorless  and  almost  transparent  and  the  wall  is  very  thin.  When  we  consider  that  many 
of  them  are  not  more  than  one-fifty-tliousandth  of  an  inch  in  diameter,  that  it  would  take 
six  hundred  million  to  equal  the  size  of  a  grain  of  sugar,  we  have  an  idea  of  their  size. 

There  are  different  kinds  of  Bacteria:  First,  the  Spherical  Bacteria,  called  Cocci. 
Some  form  chains  and  are  called  Streptococci.  Some  form  in  fours  or  irregular  masses, 
and  are  called  Micrococci.  Second,  the  rod  shaped.  Some  with  flagella  (slender  threads) 
attached,  which  make  them  capable  of  active  motion,  are  called  Bacilli.  Third,  the  Spiral 
Bacteria,  Avhich  take  their  name  from  their  shape. 

Inside  of  some  bacteria  there  is  a  little  rounded  mass  called  a  spore.  Under  some 
circumstances,  this  breaks  out,  the  bacterium  itself  disappearing  and  the  spore  remaining  in 
the  medium  in  which  it  lives.  This  spore  is  capable  of  germinating  a  new  individiial  like 
the  bacterium  that  produced  it,  thus  continuing  the  species.  Spores  may  retain  their  vitality 
for  a  long  time  even  under  conditions  that  will  destroy  the  parent  germ.  While  the  parent 
micro-organism  might  be  destroyed  by  exposure  for  fifteen  minutes  to  the  boiling  point  of 
water,  the  spores  may  require  one  hour  or  more. 

The  microbes  that  cause  disease  are  called  disease  germs  or  Pathogenic  Bucteria.  For- 
tunately these  are  in  the  great  minority,  but  because  a  small  number  are  capable  of  pro- 
ducing disease,  we  must  learn  how  to  destroy  them. 

Conditions  for  Growth.  Like  any  other  organism,  bacteria  require  moisture  and  food. 
Most  of  them  require  warmth,  especially  the  household  bacteria.  Experiments  prove  that 
70  to  95  degrees  Fahrenheit  is  the  most  favorable  tempertaure  for  their  growth.  Freezing 
point  will  check  their  growth,  but  will  not  kill  the  bacteria. 

All  bacteria  are  killed  when  exposed  to  a  high  temperature.  Active  bacteria  are  killed 
when  subjected  to  a  temperature  of  149  degrees  to  160  degrees  for  an  hour  or  less. 

Spores,  however,  which  are  in  a  state  of  rest,  neither  feeding  nor  growing,  require  a 
higher  temperature  to  destroy  them.  A  boiling  temperature  from  one  to  two  hours  is 
necessary  to  kill  them. 

Direct  sunlight  rapidly  kills  bacteria  and  most  spores.  Dust  and  dirt,  exposed  to 
sunlight,   lose   most  of   their    living   bacteria   and   most   spores.     They   thrive   best    in   dark, 


[Page  188]  BASIC    PRINCIPLES    01'    DOMESTIC    SCIENCE 


damp  places,  ex.,  dark  cellars,  dark  corners,  cracks  and  crevices  where  dust  and  dirt  collect 
easily.  Wlerever  we  find  dust,  there  we  find  bacteria,  and  wherever  dirt  accumulates  in 
the  household,  they  will  be  found  in  abundance.  The  dust  that  clings  to  the  walls,  ceilings 
and  floors,  on  the  furniture,  etc.,  all  contains  germs.  House  dust  is  liable  to  be  infected 
dust.  Absorbent  surfaces  hold  dust  and  dirt,  while  smooth,  glazed  surfaces  do  not  furnish 
lodging  places. 

The  rooms  in  our  houses  should  be  kept  light,  and  flooded  with  sunshine  and  fresh 
air  when  possible.  The  finish  of  floors,  walls,  ceilings,  etc.,  should  be  smooth,  without 
crevices  and  cracks,  that  lodging  places  for  germs  may  not  be  furnished.  The  furnishings 
should  be  such  that  they  may  be  easily  cleaned  of  any  dust  that  may  settle  on  them. 

A  dampened  or  oiled  cloth  will  remove  the  dust  better  than  a  dry  cloth,  as  germs  are 
held  by  damp  or  oiled  surfaces.  All  dust  and  dirt  gathered  should  be  burned,  that  it  may 
not  return  to  our  or  our  neighbours'  houses. 

It  is  a  good  plan  to  have  a  door  mat,  brush  or  scraper  outside  the  entrance  doors  to 
our  houses,  so  that  we  may  clean  off  our  shoes  before  entering  the  house,  in  this  way  street 
filth  may  not  be  brought  into  the  warm  house.  Bacteria  thrive  better  in  house  air  than  in 
out-of-door  air  as  there  is  less  sunshine  and  fresh  air  inside  our  houses. 

References: 

Household  Bacteriology,  by  S.  Maria  Elliott. 
Conn's  Bacteria,  Yeasts  and  Molds  in  the  Home. 
Perform  experiments.     Dust  Garden,  etc. 
Expose  plates  immediately  after  sweeping. 
Expose  plates  two  hours  after  sweeping. 
Observations. 
Conclusions. 


MOLDS  [Page  189] 

MOLDS 


As  water  plays  an  important  part  in  the  growth  of  molds,  this  lesson  may  well  be 
related   to   the   one  on   Water. 

Molds  are  fnngi  of  considerable  size,  easily  visible  to  the  naked  eye.  They  consist  of 
vegetative  portions  whicli  grow  out  in  long  threads  called  mycelium.  '  The  threads  form 
a  networic  over  the  substance  upon  which  they  are  growing  and  feeding.  You  will  notice 
that  they  usually  grow  on  the  surface  of  the  materials  attacked.  There  are  scores  of 
species  known  to  botanists,  but  it  is  not  necessary  for  us  to  distinguish  them.  Molds,  like 
Bacteria,  are  found  all  about  us.  They  attack  our  food  and  clothing^  and  if  left  undisturbed, 
will  destroy  the  materials  entirely.  Mold  growth  produces  decomposition,  putrefaction  and 
decay,  as  they  consume  the  materials  as  their  food.  ]MokI  growing  on  cloth  is  called 
mildew. 

Conditions  for  their  growth.  A  vigorous  growth  of  molds  requires  an  abundance  of 
moisture,  organic  matter,  Avarmth  and  air.  The  moisture  may  be  supplied  by  the  air  or  by 
the  food  on  which  it  grows.  Materials  composed  of  organic  substances  kept  b\  damp  places, 
furnish  splendid  soil  for  the  growth  of  molds.  Foods  containing  a  large  percentage  of 
water,  as  in  fruits  when  the  skin  is  bruised,  furnish  excellent  food  for  their  growth. 
Expose  slices  of  lemon,  tomato,  banana,  apple,  pickle,  oliA'es,  and  note  the  results  after  a 
few  days.    Almost  any  food  under  certain  conditions  will  mold. 

Foods  like  flonr,  meat,  etc.,  which  furnish  excellent  food  for  molds  if  moist,  will  not 
be  attacked  Avhen  kept  dry.  Dry  food  materials  become  moist,  when  kept  in  a  damp 
atmosphere. 

Molds  will  start  to  grow  on  cloth,  carpets,  leather,  books,  etc.,  in  fact  all  -\>-egetable 
or  animal  matter  may  be  attacked  when  kept  in  damp  places,  and  dryness  alone  will  remedy 
it.  Soiled  clothes  mold  much  more  easily  than  clean  clothes.  Most  favorable  temperatiu'e 
for  their  growth  is  from  70  to  100  degrees  Fahrenheit.  They  do  not  grow  at  the  tempera- 
ture of  freezing.  Most  common  molds  do  not  grow  at  the  ordinary  ice-chest  temperature. 
Heat  will  kill  molds — 150  to  160  degrees  Fahrenheit  will  do  this.  The  spoi-es,  however, 
require  a  higher  temperature,  but  212  degrees  Fahrenheit  will  kill  all  molds  and  spores. 

To  protect  food  and  clothing  from  molding.  The  fact  that  molding  of  food  starts  fro-n 
spores  dropping  upon  it  suggests  protecting  it.  The  fine  threads  can  penetrate  deep  into 
the  material  upon  which  they  grow.  If  we  can  keep  the  spores  av>'ay,  there  is  no  danger:  — 
Ex.  protected  and  unprotected  jelly.  All  canned  and  preserved  food  should  be  completely 
sterilized  and  so  closely  sealed  that  no  spores  can  enter.  It  should  be  kept  in  cool,  dry 
places.  Damp  closets  may  be  partly  dried  by  keeping  rmslaked  lime  in  bowls  on  shelve? 
near  jelly,  etc.  The  lime  should  be  renewed  occasionally.  Canned  fruit  which  has  been 
allowed  to  mold  is  softened  by  the  products  of  molds  and  bacteria,  and  if  eaten,  mav  causf 
intestinal  trouble.  Foods  that  can  be  kept  dry  should  be  kept  in  a  drv  state.  Food  kept 
in  boxes,  as  bread,  cake,  etc.,  should  be  exposed  to  the  air  and  sun-light  occasionally  in  order 
to  prevent  the  growth  of  molds.  Direct  sunlight  is  injurious  to  the  growth  of  molds.  Food 
should  not  be  piled  together  in  heaps,  as  this  encourages  mold  growth.  Food  like  cheese 
should  be  kept  in  a  covered  dish  in  a  cold  place.  Any  food  whi^'h  has  just  begun  to  mold 
and  which  is  of  a  character  to  allow  heating,  may  be  saved  by  boiling  it,  after  the  mold 
has  been  skimmed  oti'.  To  preserve  cioth,  leather,  etc.,  air  ilioroughly,  dry  by  expos.ure 
to  direct  sunlight  and  brush  vigorously. 

A  mnsty  smell  in  a  close  room  Indicates  the  presence  of  molds.  The  presence  of  molds 
indicates  dust  and  dampness.  A  dry  room  neither  shows  signs  of  mold  nor  does  it  ever 
smell  musty.  Sunlight  and  a  circulation  of  fresh  air  discourage  mold  growth.  They  rarely 
grow  in  light  places.  They  thrive  .in  damp,  dark,  undisturbed  places.  Places  where  food  is 
kept  should  be  frequently  white-washed,  painted  or  disinfected.  Molds  grow  quickly  in 
acid  foods.     Bacteria  grow,  in  alkaline  foods. 

Sunshine,  fresh  air  and  cleanliness,  the  latter  of  which  means  the  removal  of  dust  from 
every  corner,  drive  away  molds  and  spores.  Woods  Hutchinson  says  of  sunlight:  "It  is  a 
splendid  and  matchless  'servant  in  the  promoting  of  healthfulness  of  the  house,  for  which 
no  substitute  has  vet  been  discovered.  It  is  the  foe  alike  of  bacilli  and  the  blues;  the  best 
tonic  ever  yet  invented  for  the  liver  and  for  the  scalp,  and  for  everythnig  betweim,  and 
the  only  complexion  restorer,  and  the  deadliest  foe  of  dirt  and  disease." 

Useful  molds  will  be  discussed  later  in  connection  with  cheese  and  other  lessons. 


[Page  190]  .  BASIC    PRINCIPLES,   OF    DOMESTIC    SCIENCE 


YEASTS 

Yeasts,  like  Bacteria,  are  microscopic  plants.  They  are  found  in  the  dust,  but  usually 
are  not  so  numerous  as  bacteria  or  molds. 

The  yeast  plant  is  a  single  microscopic  cell  of  protoplasm,  enclosed  by  a  cell  wall,  often 
one-two  thousandth  of  an  inch  in  diameter.  Yeasts  are  the  natural  agents  wliich  produce 
fermentation. 

Yeast  plants  will  be  studied  in  connection  with  fermentation  and  bread  making. 

The  following  should  be  remembered  in  the  care  of  food,  in  and  out  of  the  household: 

1.  To  protect  it  from  impure  air  and  dust,  and  the  handling  of  it  by  persons  suffering 
from  contagious  diseases. 

2.  To  store  it  in  clean,  sanitary  and  well  ventilated  places. 

3.  To  store  perishable  foods  in  cold  places. 

4.  To  select  utensils  that  are  non  absorbent  and  free  from  seams,  cracks  and  crevices 
which  provide  lodging  places  for  germ  growth. 

5.  To  scald  all  dishes  after  they  have  been  used. 

Discuss  best  methods  of  the  disposal  of  household  waste,  care  of  the  plumbing,  care 
of  the  cellar  and  care  of  the  refrigerator,  etc. 


See  Lesson  3 


FOOD  PEESERVATION 


As  emphasized  in  jjrevious  lessons,  micro-organisms  exist  everywhere,  and  under  favorable 
conditions,  which  means  moisture,  warmth  and  food,  multiply  very  rapidly. 

The  housekeeper  is  interested'  in  ways  and  means  to  preserve  food  from  the  attack  of 
these   destructive   organisms. 

In  lesson  2,  we  learn  about  the  food  value  of  vegetables.  A  healthful  diet  must  include 
vegetables.  That  velegtables  may  be  served  throughout  the  year,  it,  is  necessary  for  us 
to  know  how  they  may  be  kept  from  decay. 

In  cities,  fresh  vegetables  and  fruits  may  be  purchased  throughout  the  year,  but  out  of 
season  they  are  expensive.  It  is,  therefore,  a  good  and  economical  jslan  to  make  provisions 
for  the  year  while  they  are  in  season.    • 

To  preserve  or  keep  means  to  save  from  decay,  and  as  decay  is  caused  by  the  attack 
of  micro-organisms,  it  means  first  either  the  retardation  of  the  growth  of  those  already 
present  (anything  which  will  check  the  activity  of  germ  growth  will  dela}'  the  decay),  or 
their  destruction,  and  second,  the  protection  of  the  material  from  further  attack. 

As  moisture  and  warmth  furnish  favorable  conditions  for  their  growth,  opposite  con- 
ditions discourage  them.  Make  note  of  methods  which  Avill  exclude  moisture  on  the  surface 
of  vegetables  and  fruits  covered  with  a  tough  or  thick  skin  and  keep  them  in  a  cold,  dry 
place. 

1.  Potatoes  may  be  kept  in  a  cool,  dry,  dark  place.  Sprouts  should  not  be  allowed 
to  grow  in  the  spring. 

2.  Vegetables  like  parsnips,  carrots,  beets  and  turnips  may  be  buried  in  sand  in  a 
cold  cellar.  The  skin  protects  the  vegetable  and  the  sand  protects  the  skin.  The  cold 
cellar  provides  the  temperature  to  discourage  germ  growth. 

3.  Sweet  potatoes  may  be  kept  until  January  if  put  away  clean  and  dry  in  chaff. 

4.  Ripe  pumpkins  and  squash,  if  the  skins  are  Aviped  off  occasionally,  keep  Avell  in 
a  cold  place.     Cabbages  should  be  placed  in  boxes  or  barrels,  roots  up. 

Fruits  as  a  rule,  mold  easily.  Pears,  peaches,  plums  and  cherries  decay  easily,  while 
apples  and  oranges  may  be  kept  for  some  time  with  the  proper  care.  Winter  apples  with 
their  smooth  skin,  oranges  and  lemons  should  be  wiped  with  a  .dry  cloth,  then  wrapped 
separately  in  soft  paper  and  stored  in  a  cold  place.  The  soft  paper  protects  the  skin  from 
mold  spores,  found  in  the  air,  dropping  on  it  and  also  prevents  the  moisture  that  may  be 
on  the  skin,  from  further  condensation. 


CANNED  VEGETABLES  AND  FRUITS      ■  [Page  191] 


A  low  temperature  just  above  freezing  point  and  a  clean  dry  skin  will  keep  fruit 
from  decay  for  several  months.  After  removal  from  cold  storage,  moisture  condenses  on 
the  surface  of  the  cold  fruit  when  it  comes  in  contact  with  a  warm  atmosphere.  This 
surface  moisture  encourages  mold  growth.  This  explains  why  fruit,  which  has  been  kept 
in  a  cold  place,  spoils  quickly  when  taken  out.  Such  fruit  should  be  consumed  as  soon  as 
possible  while  it  is  in  a  fresh  condition. 

Wrap  green  tomatoes  separately  in  heavy,  soft  paper,  pack  and  put  away  in  a  cold 
place.  Observe  after  two,  three,  four,  etc.  months.  Fruits  or  vegetables  showing  signs 
of  decay  should  not  be  stored.  Sound  fruit  or  vegetables  should  not  be  put  away  without 
being  wrapped  in  soft  paper,  sawdust,  sand,  oat  chafi"  or  some  medium  which  will  absorb 
moisture  and  thereby  prevent  the  accumulation  of  water  on  the  skin. 

Put  a  bunch  of  grapes  in  sawdust.  See  how  long  they  may  be  kept.  Sound  cran- 
berries may  be  kept  by  putting  them  into  crocks  and  covering  the  berries  with  cold  water. 
The  crock  should  be  covered  with  a  plate  that  fits  closely.  The  water  should  be  changed 
once  a  month. 

Cold  Storage.  A  low  temperature  will  check  the  growth  of  most  bacteria.  Some,  how- 
ever, vill  grow  at  a  few  degrees  above  freezing.  By  cold  storage  is  meant  the  use  of 
store  houses,  where  the  temperature  is  kept  very  low  and  constantly  the  same  for  months. 
The  store  houses  are  cooled  artificially.  The  Ioav  temperatures  are  produced  by  the  use 
of  artificial  ice  machines  based  on  the  vaporization  of  ammonia.  The  length  of  time  it 
is  possible  to  preserve  food  by  cold  storage,  depends  on  the  temperature.  Frozen  fish, 
fowl  and  meat  may  be  preserved  indefinitely  while  frozen. 

Fruits  are  ruined  by  freezing. 

The  temperature  of  the  home  ice-chest  varies,  depending  on  its  size,  sometimes  it  is 
as  low  as  40  degrees  and  other  times  50  degrees  Fahrenheit.  The  use  of  the  ice-chest  is 
a  means  of  checking  or  retarding  the  growth  of  bacteria,  but  it  does  not  stop  their  growth. 
The  ice-chest  is  a  means  of  preserving,  for  a  short  time,  food  that  would  otherwise  spoil 
quickly.     See  directions  for  care  and  cleaning  of  refrigerator.     Lesson  6A. 

Drying.  Since  moisture  is  necessary  for  all  germ  growth,  drying  is  another  means 
of  checking  their  growth.  One  of  nature's  methods  is  the  drying  of  grains,  ex.  corn,  wheat, 
oats,  rye,  barley,  etc.  When  the  seed  riiJens,  it  is  deprived  of  its  moisture  and  will  keep 
as  long  as  it  is  not  exposed  to  moisture.  The  Lidians  preserved  blueberries  or  other  fruits 
bj^  drying  them.  Herbs  and  spices  are  gathered  and  dried  and  used  to  aid  in  the  preserva- 
tion of  other  foods.  Modern  evaporated  fruits  and  vegetables  differ  from  the  dried  in  the 
shortened  process  of  their  preparation.  Dried  fruits  and  vegetables  are  less  expensive  than 
canned.  Chemists  tell  us  that  dried  fruits  and  vegetables,  Avhen  properly  soaked  and 
cook,ed,  are  just  as  valuable  foods  as  the  fresh  similarly  cooked.  The  use  of  dried  vegetables 
and  fruits  is  more  economical  than  the  canned. 

Raisins  are  dried  grapes,  but  they  are  not  as  completely  dried  as  some  berries,  as  the 
sugar  helps  to  keep  tliem  from  decay;  same  with  prunes,  figs,  dates  and  currants.  Hang 
sliced  apples  on  a  string,  dry  them  over  a  fire  or  in  the  sun. 

Compare  keeping  qualities  of  bread,  rusks  and  crackers.  Dried  and  salted  meats  are 
less  digestible  than  fresh,  but  fin-nish  wholesome  food.  Salt  is  injurious  to  bacterial  growth. 
See  Lesson   5A. 

CANNING  OF  VEGETABLES  AND  FRUITS 

Canning  is  considered  the  best  method  of  preserving  food.  Canning  is  preparing  food 
by  sterilization.  Sterilization  means  the  destruction  of  all  germ  life.  When  using  this 
method,  care  must  be  taken  that  the  micro-organisms  on  the  article,  the  utensils  with  which 
it  comes  in  contact  during  the  process  of  preparation  must  be  destroyed,  then  the  jar 
must  be  sealed  so  securely  that  no  germs  can  possibly  enter  into  it.    See  directions  Lesson  5B. 

We  learned  that  some  micro-organisms  produce  spores  and  that  these  spores  are  hardier 
than  the  parent  cell.  , 

While  micro-organisms  in  food  heated  to  the  boiling  point,  for  ten  or  fifteen  minutes, 
may  be  killed,  the  spores  might  require  an  hour  or  more.  When  food  is  canned  by  placing 
the  cans  in  boiling  water  long  enough  to  destroy  all  spores,  the  process  is  known  as  con- 
tinued sterilization.  We  do  know  organisms  are  present  in  the  article  we  wish  to  preserve. 
Experiments  prove  that  germs  found  in  fruit  and  fruit  juices  may  be  killed  by  boiling  the 
fruit  from  ten  to  fifteen  minutes. 


[Page  192]  BASIC    PRINCIPLES ,  OF    DOMESTIC    SCIENCE 


FRACTIONAL  OR  INTERMITTENT  STERILIZATION. 

Vegetables  and  fruits  may  be  canned  by  a  process  known  as  Fractional  or  Intermittent 
Sterilization.  Exj^eriments  prove  that  the  spores,  which  correspond  to  the  seeds  of  tlie 
higiier  plants,  with  moisture  and  a  moderate  temperature  germinate  very  rapidly.  If  food 
is  put  into  sterilized  cans  and  heated  to  the  required  temperature  (165  degrees  Fahrenheit, 
for  the  material  in  the  center  of  the  can)  for  fifteen  minutes,  the  micro-organisms  are 
killed,  but  if  there  are  any  spores  present,  they  will  survive.  By  putting  the  can,  with 
the  cover  screwed  on  securely,  aside  for  twenty-four  hours,  the  spores  will  germinate  and 
become  organisms  like  the  parent  cell.  These  are  killed  by  reheating  at  the  same  tempera- 
ture for  fifteen  minutes.  By  repeating  this  process  so  that  the  food  in  the  cans  has  been 
heated  three  times  after  intervals  of  twenty-four  hours,  the  micro-organisms  are  killed, 
all  the  spores  having  developed  into  micro-organisms.  The  covers  must  be  loosened  while 
the  cans  are  in  the  boiling  water  and  screwed  down  tightly  at  all  other  times.  This  process 
is  called  Fractional  or  Intermittent  Sterilization.  By  this  method,  the  fruit  and  vegetables 
retain  their  natural  shape,  color  and  flavor. 

SELECTION  OF  JARS  FOR  CANNING. 

There  are  several  kinds  on  the  market.  The  ordinary  screw  top  jar  is  the  one  most 
commonly  used.  It  is  inexpensive  and  with  care  is  satisfactory.  The  tops,  however,  break 
easily  and  must  be  replaced  often.  There  is  a  similar  jar  that  has  a  fitted  glass  top  held 
in  place  by  a  metal  screw  cover.  If  the  sterilization  is  properly  done  when  this  jar  is  used, 
the  air  is  driven  out  of  the  jar  by  steam  and  upon  cooling,  a  vacuum  is  formed  on  the 
inside  which  clamps  down  the  glass  top  against  the  rubber  ring.  This  seals  the  jar  auto- 
matically and  the  metal  ring  can  then  be  removed. 

The  Economy  Jar  requires  no  rubber  ring,  but  is  fitted  with  a  metal  top  having  a 
groove  around  the  edge.  This  groove,  upon  heating,  melts  and  forms  a  seal  that  takes  the 
place  of  rubber.  These  metal  tops  must  be  renewed  each  year.  On  opening  the  jar,  the 
metal  top  must  be  punctured. 

There  is  another  jar  considered  satisfactory,  which  is  provided  with  a  rubber  ring  and 
a  glass  top  held  in  place  by  a  simple  wire  spring. 

As  vegetables  often  spoil  after  being  sterilized,  because  of  defective  rubber  rings,  we 
should  buy  good  ones.  Usually  black  rubbers  are  more  durable  than  the  white  ones.  It 
is  best  to  buy  good  grade  jars;  usually  they  retail  at  about  $1.25  a  dozen.  Those  with 
wide  mouths  are  the  best. 

A  wash  boiler  is  good  for  steaming.  The  bottom  should  be  covered  with  a  rack  or 
false  bottom.  This  may  be  of  wire  netting  made  of  galvanized  wire  (J  incii  metal  mesh), 
of  narrow  strips  of  wood  fastened  onto  two  strips  at  each  end,  or  a  heavy  layer  of  straw, 
several  thicknesses  of  paper  or  cloth.  It  is  absolutely  necessary  to  cover  the  bottom  as 
the  jars  will  break  if  they  come  in  direct  contact  with  the  bottom  of  the  boiler. 

GENERAL  DIRECTIONS  FOR  INTERMITTENT  STERILIZATION. 

The  fruit  or  vegetables  are  placed  in  sterilized  cans  and  completely  covered  with  Avater 
that  has  been  boiled  and  slightly  cooled.  The  cans  are  put  on  a  rack  into  a  kettle  con- 
taining water  and  the  water  heated  to  boiling  point  which  will  heat  the  food  in  the  jar  to 
165  degrees  Fahrenheit,  and  kept  at  this  temperature  for  fifteen  minutes,  after  which  the 
cans  are  removed,  the  covers  securely  screwed  down,  and  the  jars  set  aside  for  twenty-four 
hours.  The  process  is  repeated  until  the  cans  have  been  heated  at  three  different  times, 
after  intervals  of  twenty-four  hours. 

Notes.     See  that  the  room  is  swept  and  dusted  before  putting  up  food. 

Have  plenty  of  hot  water  on  hand. 

CANNED  TOMATOES 

See  directions  for  sterilizing  cans,  etc..  Lessons  5B. 

Select  ripe,  firm  tomatoes.  Plunge  into  boiling  water  for  a  few  seconds  to  loosen  skins, 
—may  be  put  into  a  frying  basket.  Drop  into  cold  water,  remove  skins  and  cut  out  the 
hard  part  round  the  stem  end.  Put  whole  into  sterilized  jars,  or  cut  into  fourths.  Fill 
jars  with  the  tomatoes.  Cover  to  overfiowing  with  salted  water  which  has  been  boiled  and 
slightly  cooled  (1  tsp.  salt  to  1  qt.  water).  Adjust  the  rubbers  and  covers,  but  do  not 
screw  them  down.  Place  on  layers  of  cloth,  papers  or  rack  covered  with  a  cloth,  in  a 
kettle  with  a  flat  bottom.     Fill  kettle,  to  reach  neck  of  jars,  with  cold  water.     Heat  water 


CANNED  VEGETABLES  [Page  193] 


to  boiling  point.  Cover  kettle  and  boil  one  hour,  or  follow  directions  for  intermittent 
sterilization.  Remove  jars.  Fill  to  overflov/ing  with  boiling,  salted  water.  Screw  on  covers 
securely. 

Instead  of  covering  tomatoes  with  boiling,  salted  water, — peeled  and  sliced  tomatoes 
which  have  been  cooked,  may  be  poured  into  the  cans  to  fill  the  space  around  the  whole 
tomatoes. 

Tomatoes  may  be  canned  whole,  using  equal  portions  of  vinegar  and  salted  water.  In 
this  way,  they  are  nice  for  salads. 

OANNED  ASPARAGUS 

Select  young  and  tenaer  asparagus.  Remove  tough  otiter  scales.  Wash  spears  care- 
fully and  drain.  Put  in  cans,  heads  up,  cover  with  salted  water  which  has  been  boiled 
and  cooled  slightly.  Adjust  covers  loosely  and  follow  directions  for  canning  tomatoes,  al- 
lowing three  hours  for  boiling.     Screw  on  covers  securely.     See  directions,  Lesson  5B. 

CANNED  CORN 

Husk  and  brush  the  silks  off  with  a  stiff  brush.  Slit  corn  thru  the  center  of  the 
kernels.  With  a  knife  press  out  all  the  meat  or  simply  cut  off  the  grains  with  a  sharp 
knife.  Pack  this  into  sterilized  jars.  Fill  to  overdowing  with  salted  wate^  which  has 
been  boiled  and  slightly  cooled. 

Adjust  rings  and  covers  loosely.  Put  jars  in  a  kettle  on  a  i-ack,  which  should  be 
covered  with  cloth  or  paper.  The  kettle  should  contain  water  to  reach  one-half  the  height 
of  the  jars.  Cover  the  kettle  and  let  boil  three  hours.  Boil  for  one  hour  at  the  time, 
three  days  in  succession,  loosening  the  covers  during  the  cooking  process.  If  the  jars  are 
not  full,  use  contents  of  one  or  more,  or  boiling,  salted  water  to  fill  the  others.  Re-adjust 
covers,  but  do  not  screw  down;  return  to  the  fire  and  cook  one  and  one-half  hours.  Screw 
on  covers  and  let  cool  in  the  kettle.  See  that  the  covers  are  or  securely  when  the  jars 
are  cold. 

CANNED  PEAS 

Select  young  and  tender  peas.     Shell  and  wash  in  cold  water,  scald  by  pouring  boiling 

"water   over   them   and   draining   immediately.  Pack   closely   in   sterilized  jars.      Cover^  with 

salted  water  which  has  been  slightly  cooled.  Follow  directions  given  for  canned  tomatoes, 
boiling  one  hour. 

CAJSTNING  OF  FRUIT 

See  directions  for  canning  vegetables,  Lesson  5B. 

The  addition  of  sugar  in  the  canning  of  fruit  is  not  necessary  as  far  as  keeping  the 
fruit  is  concerned,  but  it  makes  it  more  palatable. 

Fruit  may  be  cooked  in  an  open  kettle  and  poured  while  hot  into  sterilized  jars  or 
rooked  in  the' jar  according  to  directions  for  Continued  Sterilization  or  according  to  direc- 
tions for  Intermittent  Sterilization.  The  secret  of  success  is  the  complete  destruction  of 
all  micro-organisms  and  spores,  and  the  prevention  of  further  attack.  Fruits  are  slightly 
acid  and  as  a  general  rule  do  not  support  bacteria  growth,  canned  fruits  are  more  commonly 
fermented  by  yeasts. 

GENERAL  DIRECTIONS. 

Do  not  use  iron  or  tin  kettles. 

Select  fresh,  firm,  not  over-ripe  fruit  of  good  quality.  Examine  jars.  Sterihze  jars, 
covers  and  rings  according  to  directions.     See  Lesson  5B. 

Wash  and  prepare  fruit  according  to  kind.  Take  the  jars  from  the  hot  water,  place 
on  a  cloth  wnung  out  in  hot  water,  one  at  a  time.  Pack  fruit,  fill  jar  to  overflowing  with 
Doiled  and  cooled  water  or  boiled  and  cooled  syrup.  Allow  from  1/3  of  %  the  weight  rf 
the  fruit  in  sugar,  and  ^  to  3  cups  of  Avater  to  a  pound  of  sugar.  Usually  one  quiiit 
measure  equals  one  pound' in  weight  and  one  quart  of  fruit  will  fill  one  pint  jar. 

Fruit  may  be  boiled  in  the  svrup  and  poured  into  sterilized  jars  or  packed  imcooke.l 
into  the  jars.     Pineapples  and  Quinces  are  cooked  in  boiling  water  until  nearly  soft,  before 


[Page.  194]  BASIC    PRINCIPLES    OF   DOMjCSTIC    SCIENCE 


they  are  put  into  the  jars  or  before  they  are  cooked  in  the  syrup.  Put  in  spoon  between 
fruit  and  jar.     Remove  spoon  that  air  bubbles  may  escape. 

Stand  jars  some  distance  apart  on  a  rack  covered  with  paper  or  cloth.  Surround  jars 
with  water  to  reach  one-half  the  height  or  to  neck  of  the  jars.  Let  water  reach  boiling 
point.  Let  boil  the  required  length  of  time,  not  less  than  ten  minutes  at  a  time.  Remove 
jars;  do  not  take  off  covers,  but  screw  them  on  securely.  Let  stand  until  cold.  Again 
tighten  covers.     Label  jars. 

Keep  them  in  a  cool,  dry  place. 

Note:     New  rubber  rings  should  be  used  each  season. 

TO  CAN  SMALL  FRUIT. 

Pick  over  and  wash  the  fruit.  Pack  solidly  in  sterilized  jars,  cover  with  boiled  and 
cooled  water  or  sugar  syrup,  adjust  sterilized  rubbers,  put  on  sterilized  covers  loosely. 
Stand  the  jars  on  a  rack,  in  a  boiler  or  kettle,  containing  water  to  reach  J  the  height  of 
the  jars.  Let  water  come  to  boiling  point.  Boil  ten  minutes.  Remove  cans.  Screw  on 
covers  securely. 

CANNED  PEARS. 

Wash,  cut  the  fruit  in  halves.  Remove  core  and  pare.  Plunge  into  cold  water  to 
prevent  discoloration.  May  be  canned  whole.  Put  into  jars,  placing  the  fruit  so  that  the 
outside  of  the  fruit  touches  the  sides  of  the  jars.  For  each  quart  allow  two  cups  of  sugar 
and  one  cup  of  water,  one  ginger  rQot  and  a  few  shavings  of  lemon  rind,  if  liked.  Boil  the 
water,  sugar  and  flavorings,  remove  the  ginger  and  lemon  rind  and  cover  the  fruit  to  over- 
flowing with  the  syrup.  Adjust  sterilized  rings  and  covers  loosely,  put  in  kettle,  the  bot- 
tom of  which  should  be  covered  with  a  rest  or  layers  of  paper.  Fill  the  kettle  with  watei 
to  reach  thi>  neck  of  jars,  let  water  come  to  boiling  point  and  boil  fifteen  minutes.  The 
kettle  should  be  securely  covered.     Tighten  covers  and  let  jars  cool  in  the  kettle  or  boiler. 

CANNED  PEARS.     IsO.  XL 

Prepare  fruit  as  in  Recipe  1.  Put  them  in  an  enameled  kettle.  Cover  with  hot  water 
and  cook  them  slowly  until  they  can  be  easily  pierced.  Lift  each  half  out  carefully,  place 
in  jars  and  cover  with  boiled  and  cooled  water  or  boiled  and  cooled  syrup.  Proceed  as  in 
Recipe  1,  and  cook  in  the  jars  ten  minutes  after  the  boiling  point  has  been  reached. 

CANNED  PLUMS  AND  GAGES. 

Wash.  Prick  the  skins  Avith  a  needle  or  remove  the  skin  by  plunging  the  plums  into 
boiling  water  long  enough  to  loosen  the  skins  and  with  a  sharp  knife  pull  them  off".  Allow 
one  pound  of  svigar  and  one-half  pint  of  water  to  two  pounds  of  plums.  Boil  sugar  and 
water,  allow  the  syrup  to  cool.  Pack  plums  in  jars,  cover  with  the  cooled  syrup.  Put  the 
covers  on  jars  loosely,  arrange  them  on  a  rack  in  kettle  or  boiler,  surrounded  with  water 
to  reach  the  neck  of  the  jars.  Heat  water  to  boiling  point,  boil  thirty  minutes.  Remove 
jars  from  kettle.  ^  Screw  on  tops  securely.  May  be  prepared  according  to  Intermittent 
Sterilization  Process,  allowing  fifteen  minutes  for  each  boiling. 

CANNED  CHERRIES. 

Wash,  stone  and  weigh  the  cherries.  To  each  pound  of  cherries  allow  one-half  pound 
of  sugar.  Arrange  cherries  and  sugar  in  layers  in  a  preserving  kettle,  let  stand  thirty 
minutes.  Heat  to  boiling  point,  skim,  let  boil  ten  minutes.  Fill  sterilized  jars,  adjust  rub- 
bers, dipped  in  hot  water,  and  fasten  on  sterilized  cover.  May  be  prepared  according  to 
directions  given  for  Intermittent  Sterilization  with  or  without  sugar. 

Acid  fruits  like  gooseberries  may  be  kept  vevy  easily. 

JANNED  GOOSEBERRIES. 

Wash  berries  and  remove  stem  and  blossom  end.  Pack  berries  in  sterilized  jars.  Cover 
with  cold  water;  adjust  sterilized  rubber  rings  and  covers.     Set  jars  in  a  cool  place. 

CANNED  RHUBARB. 

Remove  skin  from  Rhubarb  stalks,  cut  in  pieces.  Pack  the  pieces  in  sterilized  jars, 
cover  to  overflowing  with  freshly  drawn  water.  Adjust  sterilized  rubbers  and  covers  and 
store  in  a  cool,  dark,  dry  place. 


SUGAR  AS  A  PRESERVATIVE  [Page  195] 


SUGAR  AS  A  PRESERVATIVE 

Bacteria  do  not  grow  in  substances  containing  a  large  percentage  of  sugar,  but  they 
grow  rapidly  in  a  wet  substance  containing  a  small  percentage  of  sugar. 

Sugar  has  a  tendency  to  draw  moisture  from  bacteria.  Therefore,  they  cannot  grow 
in  a  thick  sugar  syrup.  Tbe  molds  may  grow  on  top,  as  molds  grow  freely  on  moist,  sugary 
substances  exposed  to  the  air;   ex.,  preserves,  jellies,  jams,  marmalades,  etc. 

Yeasts  grow  in  solutions  containing  sugar,  some  nitrogenous  mineral  matter,  ex., 
canned  fruits.  Fruits  containing  little  nitrogenous  matter  are  more  easily  protected  from 
fermentation  than  those  containing  a  large  percentage. 

SYRUP  GAUGE  AND  ITS  USE. 

The  syrup  gauge  is  a  graduated  glass  tube,  with  a  weighted  bulb  that  registers  from 
0  to  50  degrees.     It  is  used  to  determine  the  quantity  of  sugar  in  a  syrup. 

If  it  is  put  into  water,  the  bulb  will  rest  on  the  bottom  of  the  cylinder — if  sugar  is 
added  to  the  water,  the  gauge  will  float.  The  more  sugar  added,  the  higher  the  gauge  will 
rise,  indicating  the  quantity  of  sugar  added.     The  gauge  ^Yill  register  the  quantity  of  sugar. 

PRESERVES 

Preserving  fruit,  as  ordinarily  used,  means  the  cooking  of  fruit  with  from  %  to  its 
own  weight  of  sugar  with  little  or  no  water  according  to  the  kind  of  fruit. 

GENERAL  DIRECTIONS  FOR  PRESERVED  FRUIT. 

Prepare  the  fruit,  weigh,  and  to  each  pound  allow  one  pound  of  sugar.  Solid  fruits 
such  as  pears,  apples,  quinces  and  pineapples  must  be  boiled  in  water  until  tender,  before 
adding  the  sugar.  The  water  may  be  saved  for  jelly  making,  fruit  sauces,  or  ices,  etc.  The 
skins  and  water  may  be  used  for  jelly  making  ex.,  quinces. 

Make  a  syrup  by  boiling  the  sugar  and  water,  using  |  cupful  of  water  to  each  pound 
of  sugar.  Add  the  fruit,'  cook  slowly  unttil  it  is  transparent.  Put  into  sterilized  fruit  jars 
or  glasses,  cover  securely. 

DAMSON  PRESERVES. 

Wash  and  wipe  fruit.  Prick  each  plum  with  a  fork  or  a  large  needle  5  or  6  times. 
Make  a  syrup  by  boiling  an  equal  measure  of  sugar,  allowing  ^  cupful  of  water  to  each 
pound  of  sugar.  Skim  the  sugar  syrup;  add  the  plums  a  few  at  the  time,  cook  until  soft. 
Put  into  sterilized  jars,  cover  with  the  syrup,  adjust  tops.     May  be  kept  in  stone  jars. 

TOMATO  PRESERVES. 

Wash  and  wipe  yellow  pear  tomatoes.  Plunge  into  boiling  water,  and  let  stand  tmtil 
skins  may  be  removed  easily.  Put  plums  and  an  equal  measure  of  the  sugar  in  layers  in 
a  jar  or  kettle.  Let  stand  over  night.  Pour  off  the  syrup,  heat,  boil  until  quite  thick; 
skim,  add  the  tomatoes  and  three  sliced  lemons  to  each  pound  of  fruit.  Cook  until  tomatoes 
are  almost  transparent.  Canton  ginger,  ginger  root  or  cinnamon  bark  may  be  added.  Pour 
into  sterilized  jars,  adjust  rubbers  apd  covers. 

Jams  are  usually  made  with  berries  or  small  fruits  (pulp,  seeds  and  skin)  cooked  with 
an  equal  quantity  of  sugar. 

GENERAL  DIRECTIONS  FOR  JAM-MAKING. 

Prepare  fruit  and  weigh.  Measure  an  equal  quantity  of  sugar.  Heat  the  sugar  as 
for  jelly.  Cook  the  fruit,  mash  with  a  wooden  spoon  while  cooking  and  stir  to  prevent 
burning.  Cook  30  minutes,  or  until  soft.  Add  heated  sugar  and  cook  20  minutes  or  more 
until  thick.     Put  into  heated,  sterihzed  jars  or  glasses.     Cool  and  cover  as  for  jelly. 

Cook  raspberry  and  blackberry  jam  about  45  minutes. 

FRUIT  JUICES 

Fruit  juices  are  cooling  and  refreshing.  They  may  be  used  for  drinks,  ices,  frappes, 
pudding  sauces,  and  fruit  soups. 

Fruit  juices  are  added  to  barley,  rice  and  oatmeal  gruels  and  served  to  invalids  and 
convalescents.  Fruit  juice  may  be  prepared  with  or  without  sugar.  If  sugar  is  added, 
J  to  2  cups  may  be  used  to  a  quart  of  juice. 


[Page  196]  BASIC    PRINCIPLES    OF    DOMESTIC    SCIENCE 


GRAPE  JUICE  NO.  I. 

Use  only  clean,  sound,  not  over-ripe  grapes.  Wash  the  grapes,  remove  stems.  Put 
the  grapes  into  a  preserving  kettle  over  a  slow  fire,  crush  them  with  .a  wooden  spoon  or 
pestle.  Heat  slowly  to  boiling  point  and  cook  until  skins  are  tender,  about  15  or  20  minutes. 
Strain  thru  a  strainer  lined  with  double  thicknesses  of  clieese  cloth.  Press  out  all  the 
juice  possible.  Pleat  the  juice  to  boiling  point.  Fill  sterilized  cans  to  overflowing  with  the 
juice.  Adjust  sterilized  rubber  rings  and  coA'ers.  May  be  kept  in  sterilized  bottles,  sealed 
with  sterilized  corks  and  sealing  wax.  Strawberry  and  other  fruit  juices  may  be  put  up 
in  the  same  way. 

GRAPE  JUICE,  NO.  II. 

Select  sound,  well  ripened,  but  not  over-ripe  grapes.  Crush  the  grapes.  Put  the  crushed 
grapes  into  a  cloth  bag.  Express  the  juice.  Pleat  the  juice  in  an  enamel  double  boiler  or 
in  a  kettle  to  simmering  point.  Do  not  let  it  ,come  to  a  boil.  If  perfectly  clear  juice  is' 
desired,  set  aside  for  24  hours.  Drain  the  juice  from  the  sediment  and  run  it  thru  several 
thicknesses  of  flannel.  Pour  into  sterilized  bottles,  almost  filling  the  bottles  (room  for 
expansion  is  necessary).  Place  bottles  or  Jars  on  a  rack  in  a  kettle  surrounded  with  water 
to  neck  of  jars.  Heat  water  slowly  to  simmering  point.  Remove  bottles,  cork  and  seal 
immediately. 

Fruit  juices  may  be  put  up  and  made  into  jelly  at  any  time. 

JELLY  MAKING  AND  JELLIES. 

Under-ripe  fruit  contains  subsj;ances  called  pectose  and  pectase;  during  the  process  of 
ripening,  as  the  fruit  ripens,  pectase  acts  iipon  the  pectose,  which  is  insoluble  in  cold  water, 
and  converts  it  into  pectin  which  is  soluble.  Pectin  is  one  of  a  series  of  carbo-hydrates 
commonly  called  vegetable  jelly  and  is  at  its  best  Avhen  the  fruit  is  just  ripe  or  a  little 
under-ripe.  Long  keeping  changes  the  character  of  the  pectin.  In  some  ways  it  resembles 
gelatine.  It  is  soluble  in  hot  water  and  stiffens  on  cooling.  It  is  most  aloundant  in  the 
harder  parts  of  the  fruit,  the  core  and  skin.  When  the  juice  is  drawn  from  the  fruit;  the 
pectin  or  pectose  is  also  withdrawn.  Best  fruits  for  jelly  making  are — currants,  crab-apple, 
apple,  quince,  blackberry,  raspberry,  grape  and  peach. 

Prepare  the  fruit.  Cut  large  fruit  into  pieces  (use  skin  and  core).  With  watery  fruits, 
such  as  grapes,  currants,  etc.,  use  no  water.  With  apples,  quinces,  etc.,  use  enough  water 
to  cover  fruit.  Boil  the  water  imtil  the  juice  can  be  drained  out  easily.  Avoid  stirring. 
Drain  juice  thru  a  cornucopia  shaped  jelly  bag  made  from  flannel,  or  double  thickness  of 
cheese  cloth. 

Measure  the  juice  and  an  equal  quantity  of  sugar. 

Boil  the  fruit  juice  twenty  minutes.     Skim.     Heat  sugar  in  a  slow  oven. 

Add  the  heated  sugar  to  the  boiled  fruit  juice,  continue  holding  from  3  to  10  minutes, 
or  until  jelly  stiffens  when  a  little  is  tried  on  a  cold  plate. 

Strain  Jelly  into  a  heated  pitcher  first,  then  pour  it  into  sterilized  glasses.  (See  Lessons 
65A  and  5B).     Place  on  a  cloth  wrung  out  of  hot  water. 

Put  in  a  sunny  window  and  let  stand  24  hours. 

Cover;  pour  over  each  glass  melted  paraffin  or  use  circular  pieces  of  jaaper,  dipped  in 
alcohol,  sealing  with  white  of  egg;   or  a  tin  cover. 

Keep  in  a  cool  dry  place.     Label  and  date  all  glasses  of  jelly. 

TO   COVER  WITH  PAPER, 

Cut  out  pieces  of  paper  the  size  of  the  inside  of  the  top  of  the  glass  and  a  second  set 
about  an  inch  larger  in  diameter.  Brush  or  dip  the  smaller  on  one  side  with  alcohol  or 
brandy  and  press  the  wet  side  to  touch  and  cover  the  jelly  in  the  glass.  Brush  the  edge 
of  the  larger  piece  with  white  of  egg  or  mucilage,  cover  the  top  of  the  glass,  turn  over 
edges  and  press  upon  the  sides  of  the  glass. 

APPLE  JELLY. 

Wash  and  wipe  apples,  remove  stem  and  blossom  ends  and  cut  in  quarters.  Put  in  an 
enamel,  granite  or  porcelain  lined  kettle,  cover  fruit  with  cold  water.  Cover  and  cook  slowly 
until  apples  are  soft;  mash  and  drain  thru  a  coarse  sieve,  or  mash  with  a  potato  masher. 
Put  into  a  flannel  jelly  bag  and  allow  juice  to  drip  into  a  pan  or  kettle. »  Boil  juice  20 
minutes,  add  an  equal  qxiantity  of  heated  sugar;  boil  5  minutes  longer  or  vnitil  it  will 
jell  when  a  little  is  tried  on  a  cold  saucer. 


JELLIES  [Page  107] 


Skim  and  fill  sterilized  glasses.  Put  in  a  sunny  window  for  24  hours.  Cover  according 
to  directions  above. 

QUINCE  JELLY. 

Follow  general  directions.     Remove  seeds  from  fruit. 

APPLE  AND  QUINCE  JELLY. 

1  bushel  apples  1  peck  quinces 

18  quarts  water  Sugar. 

Follow  general  directions. 

BLACKBERRY  AND  APPLE  JELLY. 

6  lbs.  blackberries  3  lbs.  apples  1  pt.  water  5  lbs.  sugar. 

Follow  general  directions. 

MINT  JELLY. 

4  lbs.  apples,  Greenings  -}  cup  lemon  juice 

4  bunches  mint  Spinach  juice  to  color  jell}\ 

Sugar  from  %  to  equal  quantity  of  fruit 

Follow  general  directions,  adding  finely  chopped  \nmt  leaves  to  apples  when  half  cooked. 
Add  lemon  juice  and  enough  spinach  juice  to  color  just  before  removing  the  jelly  from 
the  fire. 

CURRANT  JELLY. 

Pick  over  currants,  leave  berries  on  the  stems;  wash  and  drain.  Put  into  preserving 
kettle;  mash  them',  cook  slowly  until  berries  look  white.  Strain  thru  jelly  bag.  Boil  juice 
5  minutes.  Add  equal  measure  of  heated  sugar;  boil  3  minutes  or  until  it  jells  when  tried 
on  a  cold  saucer.  Pour  into  glasses.  Let  stand  in  the  sun  24  hours.  Cover  and  keep 
in  a  cool  place. 

BLACKBERRY,   RASPBERRY   OR   STRAWBERRY   JELLY. 

Prepare  according  to  recipe  for  Currant  Jelly. 

GRAPE  JELLY. 
1   lb.  grapes.  1  pt.  water.  '  Sugar. 

Follow  directions  for  Currant  Jelly.     Wild  grapes  make  the  best  jelly. 

MARMALADES. 

Marmalades  are  made  from  the  pulp  and  juice  of  fruits  with  sugar.  Fruit  pulp  left 
after  the  juice  has  been  drained  out  for  jelly  may  be  used,  ex.,  apples,  quinces. 

APPLE  AND  QUINCE  MARMALADE. 

1  gallon  fruit  pulp,  6  lbs.  sugar 

I  gallon  water,  Juice  1  lemon. 

Cook  fruit  pulp,  water  and  heated  sugar  over  a  slow  fire  15  minutes,  or  until  mixture 
does  not  separate  when  a  little  is  tried  on  a  cold  saucer.     Proceed  as  for  jelly. 

TOMATO  MARMALADE. 

1  gallon  ripe  tomatoes,  ^   lb.  raisins.  v 

6  lemons,  4  lbs.  granulated  sugar. 

Peel  the  tomatoes  and  cut  into  slices.  Cut  lemon  into  thin  slices,  remove  lemon  seeds. 
Remove  raisin  seeds.  Put  slices  of  tomatoes,  lemons,  raisins  and  sugar  in  layers  in  a  pre- 
serving kettle.  Heat  slowly  to  boiling  point,  then  simmer  until  thick  like  a  mush.  Pour 
into  sterilized  glasses.     Seal. 

GRAPE  MARMALADE. 

Pick  over,  wash  and  drain  grapes.  Remove  stems  and  skins.  Save  skins.  Put  pu''p 
into  preserving  kettle.  Heat  to  boiling  point  and  cook  tmtil  seeds  separate  from  the  pulp. 
Rub  thru  a  sieve.  Return  to  kettle,  add  the  skins  and  an  equal  measure  of  sugar.  Cook 
thirty  minutes,  stirring  occasionally  as  it  will  burn  easily.     Keep  in  glasses  or  stone  jars. 


[Page  198]  BASIC    PRINCIPLES    OF   DOMESTIC    SCIENCE 


ORANGE  MARMALADE.     (California  Recipe). 

Select  six  large,  juicy  oranges.  Wash,  cut  in  quarters,  slice  quarters  as  thin  as  pos- 
sible; add  the  juice  of  two  lemons. 

To  each  lb.  of  fruit  add  2  pts.  of  water,  let  stand  uncovered  24  hours,  then  boil  45 
minutes,  again  let  stand  uncovered  24  hours.  Add  lb.  of  sugar  to  lb.  of  fruit  and  boil  45 
minutes,  or  until  it  jells  when  a  little  is  tried  on  a  cold  plate. 

PEACH  MARMALADE. 

%  weight  sugar, 
1  weight  peaches, 

^  pt.  or  1  c.  water  to  each  lb.  or  2  cups  sugar. 
Make   syrup   of   sugar   and  water,   add   finely   cut   peaches.     Boil   until   thick,  about   45 
minutes.     Put  in  jars,  seal. 

PICKLING 

Few  kinds  of  bacteria  can  grow  in  acids,  so  vinegar  makes  a  good  preservative. 

PRESERVING  PROPERTIES  OF  SPICES. 

We  know  that  fruits  and  vegetables  prepared  with  spices  keep  longer  without  being 
carefully  sealed  than  those  that  are  put  up  with  the  ordinary  amount  of  sugar.  Unsealed 
pickles  and  ketchup  will  keep  for  a  long  time  without  spoiling. 

Experiments  show  that  cinnamon,  cloves  and  mustard  act  as  preservatives,  while  ginger, 
black  pepper  and  cayenne  do  not.  To  preserve  food  1^  to  2  parts  of  the  spices  to  100  parts 
of  the  food  material  must  be  used,  A  smaller  amount  used  will  only  retard  the  growth 
of  micro-organisms. 

SWEET  CARROT  PICKLES. 

1  qt.  carrots,  1  stick  cinnamon, 

1  cup  sugar,  IJ  tsp.  salt, 

1  tsp.  cloves,  2cups  vinegar. 

Wash  carrots.  Cook  until  tender  in  boiling  water.  Remove  and  peel.  Cut  into  strips; 
if  young  and  tender,  leave  them  whole.  Prepare  a  syrup  by  boiling  the  sugar,  vinegar  and 
spices  5  minutes.  Add  the  carrots  and  cook  until  translucent.  Pack  carrots  in  jars;  pour 
on  syrup  to  overflow  jar,  adjust  sterilized  rings  and  covers.     Fasten  covers  securely. 

SPICED  PEACHES. 

2  cups  vinegar,  4  cloves  for  each  peach, 
4  cups  sugar,  1  oz.  stick  cinnamon. 

^  peck  peaches. 

Make  syrup  by  boiling  vinegar,  sugar  and  seasonings  tied  in  cheese  cloth.  Dip  peaches 
quickly  into  hot  water,  peel.  Put  peaches  into  boiling  syrup  and  cook  until  soft.  Arrange 
peaches  in  sterilized  jars.    Adjust  sterilized  rubbers  and  covers. 

SWEET  PICKLED  PEARS. 

Wash  pears.  Remove  stem  and  blossom  end.  Pare  or  leave  skins.  Follow  recipe  for 
Sweet  Pickled  Peaches. 

CRABAPPLE   PICKLES. 

Wash  crabapples.     Remove  blossom  end.     Follow  recipe  for  Sweet  Pickled  Peaches. 
SWEET  PICKLED  CANTELOUPE. 

Remove  soft  part,  pare  and  cut  into  strips.  Place  in  a  jar,  cover  with  vinegar  and  let 
stand  over  night.  In  the  morning  drain,  measure  the  vinegar,  to  each  pint  of  vinegar  add 
one  pound  (2  cups)  of  sugar,  1  tbsp.  of  cloves,  1  oz.  of  cinnamon  (spices  tied  in  a  piece  of 
cheese  cloth).  Heat  the  vinegar,  etc.,  to  boiling  point  and  let  boil  ten  minutes.  Add  the 
melon  and  cook  until  translucent.  Remove  the  fruit  and  place  in  sterilized  jars,  Cover 
with  vinegar  and  sugar  sj^rup.    Adjust  rubbers  an<J  covers, 


PICKLING 


[Page  199] 


MUSTARD  PICKLES. 


1  qt.  tiny  cucumbers, 
1  qt.  sliced  cucumbers, 
1  qt.  green  tomatoes, 
1  cauliflower, 
1  pt.  small  onions, 


2  qts.  vinegar. 


4  green  peppers  cut  in  strips 

1  red  pepper  cut  in  strips, 

1  cup  flour, 

Vs  cup  mustard, 

1  cup  sugar, 


Soak  cucumbers,  tomatoes,  cauliflower  and  peppers  in  a  bi  Ine  made  from  2  cups  salt 
and  4  quarts  water,  for  24  hours.  Scald  and  drain.  Mix  the  flour,  mustard  and  sugar,  add 
the  vinegar;  heat  to  boiling  point  and  boil  until  thick  and  smooth.  Add  the  vegetables; 
boil  15  minutes;  put  in  jars  and  cook  30  minutes  according  to  directions  for  canning. 


2  qts.  green  tomatoes. 


CHOW  CHOW. 


1  qt.  peppers,  finely  chopped. 


1  qt.  onions, 


Put  in  layers,  sprinkling  each  with  salt,  and  let  stand  over  night.  Drain  in  the  morning. 
Add  A  cup  white  mustard  seed  and  Vs  cup  horse  radish  if  liked.  Mix  and  jjut  into  sterilized 
jars.     Fill  jars  to  overflowing  with  vinegar  that  has  been  scalded. 


GREEN  TOMATO  PICKLES. 


2  qts.  chopped  green  tomatoes, 
^  cup  salt, 
1  tsp.  pepper, 
IJ  tsp.  mustard,, 
1  tsp.  cinnamon. 


2  tsp.  allspice, 
1^  tsp.  cloves, 

Va   cup  white  mustard  seed, 
2  green  peppers,  cut  in  strips, 
1  chopped   inion, 
2  qts.  vinegar. 


Add  salt  to  the  finely  chopped  tomatoes,  cover,  let  stand  24  hours.  Heat  vinegar  to 
boiling  point,  add  the  spices,  tomatoes,  peppers  and  onions;  boil  all  for  15  minutes.  May 
be  kept  in  stone  jars  in  a  cool  place. 

GHERKINS    (SOUR  PICKLES). 

1  qt.  gherkins.  Hot  vinegar, 

4  tsp.  salt,  3   Chill  peppers, 

Cold  water,  1  tbsp.  mixed  spices. 

Wash  cucumbers.  Sprinkle  with  the  salt.  Soak  over  night  in  enough  cold  water  to 
cover.  In  the  morning,  drain  off  the  brine,  cover  with  fresh  water,  drain  again.  Pack  the 
cucumbers,  peppers  and  spices  in  a  sterilized  jar;  cover  with  the  hot  vinegar,  adjust  covers. 
Store  in  a  cool  dry  place. 

PICALILLI. 


2  cucjumbers, 

1  cup  salt, 

4  cups  brown  sugar, 

1  tsp.  pepper, 

1  tsp.  mustard, 

1^  qts.  vinegar. 


2  qts.  green  tomatoes, 
1  qt.  red  tomatoes, 
1  bunch  celery, 

1  head  cabbage, 

2  onions, 
2  green  peppers, 
4  red  sweet  peppers. 

Chop  the  vegetables,  sprinkle  them  with  salt  and  let  stand  over  night.  Di-ain  and  press 
out  as  much  liquid  as  possible.  Pour  on  the  vinegar,  add  the  sugar  and  spices,  and  heat  to 
boiling  point.  Boil  about  an  hour.  Put  into  sterilized  jars.  Adjust  covers  as  per  previous 
directions. 

/  RIPE  TOMATO  PICKLES. 


1  qt.  red  tomatoes  finely  chopped, 
1  cup  celery  finely  chopped, 
1  red  pepper  (to  make  3  tbsp)., 
1  onion   (to  make  3  tbsp.), 
y^  cup  sugar, 


3  tsp.  salt. 

%  cup  mustard  seed, 

1/3  tsp.  cloves, 

1/3  tsp.  cinnamon, 

J.  pt,  vineefir, 


[Page  200]  BASIC    {PRINCIPLES    OF    DOMESTIC    SCIENCE 


Mix  the  vegetables  and  the  spices.  Cover  with  the  vinegar.  Put  in  stone  jars  and 
cover.     Keep  in  a  cool,  dry  place. 

ENGLISH  CHUTNEY. 

6  apples  finely  chopped,  l  cup  mint  leaves  finely  chopped, 

3  tomatoes  finely  chopped,  2  tbsp.  salt, 

12  small  red  peppers  finely  chopped,  -J  tbsp.  mustard, 

2  small  onions  finely  chopped,  2  cups  sugar, 

1  cup  seeded  raisins  finely  chopped,  4  cups  boiled  and  cooled  vinegar. 

Mix  ingredients  in  an  earthen  jar  and  let  stand  in  a  cool  place. 

CORN  PICKLE. 

2  qts.  corn  (cut  from  cob),  2  tbsp.  salt, 
2  qts.  finely  chopped  cabbage,  3  cups  sugar, 

6  red  peppers  finely  chopped,  3  tbsp.  mustard, 

2  qts.  vinegar. 

Cook  slowly  20  minutes.     Fill  sterilized  jars.     Cover  securely. 

RELISH. 

1  peck  ripe  tomatoes  finely  chopped  and  drained, 

2  c.  celery  finely  chopped,  ^  c.  white  mustard  seed, 

2  c.  onions  finely  chopped,  4  red  peppers  finely  chopped, 

2  c.  sugar,  4  green  peppers  finely  chopped, 

1  qt.  vinegar,  1  cup  horseradish. 
^  c.  salt, 

Mix  ingredients  thoroughly.    Fill  jars. 

GREEN  TOMATO  PICKLES. 

4  qts.  green  tomatoes  finely  chopped,  6  green  peppers  finely  chopped, 
6  onions  finely  chopped,                                              1  cup  salt. 

Let  above  ingredients  stand  over  night.  In  morning  drain  thoroughly.  Boil  in  2  qts. 
water  and  1  cup  vinegar  about  20  minutes.  Drain  again;  cook  again  in  the  following  mix- 
ture : 

2  qts.  vinegar,  ^  lb.  mustard  seed, 

1|  lbs.  sugar,  ■  4  tsp.  cloves  tied  in  cheese  cloth. 

Cinnamon  bark  tied  in  cheese  cloth. 


INDEX 


Abbreviations 13 

Absorpt  1011    148 

Acid  and  Salt  Supplying  Foods 98-168 

Air   24 

Air  in  Its  Relation  to  Cookery 32 

Air  in  Its  Relation  to  Fire 26 

Air  in  Its  Relation  to  Life 24 

Albumen,  Experiments 100 

Angel's  Food    159 

Apples,  Baked   25 

Apple  Fritters  149 

Apple  John 73 

Apple  Pie   163 

Apples,  Scalloped 31 

Apple  Snow   35 

Apples,  Sweet  Pickled 99 

Apple  Tapioca   37 

Approximate  Measure  of  One  Pound.  ...    66 

Apricots,  Stewed 167 

Asparagus,  Boiled 15 

Asparagus,  Canned 17 

Assimilation   ■ 148 

Average  Composition  of  American  Food 

Products    -. 158-164-176 

Average  Composition  of  Fggs 100 

Average  Composition  of  Wheat  Flour..  .  .   58 

Bacon  Recipes   147 

Bacon  I  147 

Bacon  II   147 

Baked  Apples 25 

Baked  Bananas   25 

Baked  Beans    147 

Baked  Bean  Soup 27 

Baked  Custards 103 

Baked  Fish 127 

Baked  Macaroni  With  Cheese . 59 

Baked  Potatoes   51 

Baking  Powder  62 

Composition — Recipe 62 

Biscuits 71 

Experiments   62 

Bananas,  Baked  .  * 25 

Barley  Water 172 

Batters- 60-61 

Bechamel  Sauce 125 

Beef   118 

Beef  a  la  Mode 113 

Beef,  Cuts  of 116 

Beef,  Essence,  Broiled 112 

Beef,  How  to  Prepare 118 

Beef  Loaf   Ill 

Beef  Roast  Sandwich,  Hot 23 

Beef  Stew 113 

Beef  Tea 112 

Beets — Boiled   15 

Beverages    170 

Biscuits  152 

Blackberries,  Preserved   99 

Blueberry  Cakes   71 


Boston  Cookies    161 

Braizing 117 

Bread 75-152-155 

Bread,  Beaten   74 

Bread,  Entire  Wheat 155 

Bread,  Graham 75 

Bread,  Rolled  Oats 75 

Bread,  Rye  155 

Bread,  White 155 

Bread,  Whole  A\Tieat  .1 75 

Bread,  Whole  Wheat  II 75 

Bread  Griddle  Cakes 61 

Bread  Pudding,  Custard 103 

Breaded  Veal  Cutlets 123 

Breakfast   41 

Broiling   .  . . 115 

Broiled  Beef  Essence 112 

Broiled  Fish  127 

Broiled  Steak 115 

Brown  Sauce 125 

Buying  Milk 104 

Cabbage,  Boiled 15 

Cabbage  Salad 39 

Cabbage,  Shredded   39 

Cake    68-69-157 

Cake  Fillings  and  Frostings 156 

Cakes  Without  Butter 159 

Candy.     Chocolate  Fudge,  French  Cream, 
Peanut    Candy,    Pinoche,    Sea    Foam, 

Taffy   57 

Canned  Fruits.  Apples,  Cherries,  Peaches, 

Pears,  Plums,  Yellow  Tomatoes 99 

Canning.     General  Directions  for 17-98 

Canning  and  Preserving  Fruit 98 

Canning  Vegetables,  Directions  for 17 

Caper  Sauce 129 

Caramel  Custard 103 

Caramel  Ice  Cream 109 

Carbohydrates   50-52-54-56 

Care  of  Dishes 12 

Care  of  Dish  Cloths  and  Towels 11 

Care  of  Dust  Cloths 11 

Care  of  Refrigerator 18 

Care  of  Sink 18 

Care  of  Sweeping  Utensils 10 

Care  of  Utensils 20 

Carrots,  Boiled    15 

Cauliflower,  Boiled    15 

Celery,  Boiled 15 

Celery  Soup,  Cream  of 29 

Cereals 52-53 

General  Rules  for  Cooking 52 

Cereal  Omelet    53 

Cheap  Sponge  Cake 159 

Cheese   106 

Cheese  Dishes 107 

Cheese  Canapes  23 

Cheese  Custard   103 

Cheese  Fondue 107 


INDEX 


Cheese  Sandwiches — Toasted  107 

Cheese  Souffle 107 

Cheese  Straws   107 

Chemical  Treatment  of  Foods 61 

Cherries,  Canned 99 

Chicken  Croquettes 133 

Chicken — How  to  Dress,  Clean,  Stuff  and 

Truss   121 

Chicken  Loaf Ill 

Chicken,  Roast 131 

Chicken  Sandwich,  Hot 33 

Chocolate 170 

Chocolate  Cake    157 

Chocolate  Cookies  161 

Chocolate  Custard 103 

Chocolate  Eclaire 34 

Chocolate  Frosting    34-156 

Chocolate  Fudge    57 

Chocolate  Ice  Cream 109 

Chocolate  Loaf  Cake   69 

Choeolato,  to  Make 171 

Clams  , .  132 

Cleanliness,  Necessity  for 9 

Cleanliness  of  Person 9 

Cleanliness  of  Room 10 

Club  House  Sandwich 23 

Cocoa    170 

Cocoa,  Breakfast 171 

Cocoanut  Cookies   161 

CoflFee   170 

Coffee,  Boiled   171 . 

Coffee,  Filtered    171 

Cold  Slaw   139 

Cold  Storage    16 

Combustion ' 26 

Company  Luncheon 181 

Comparative  Cost  of  Foods,  Used  in  Bat- 
ters and  Doughs 70 

Composition   of   Fish,   Mollusks,   Crusta- 
ceans, etc 128-130 

Composition  of  Meats 124 

Cooked  Fruits   167 

Cookies    161 

Corn   64 

Corn  Cakes   65 

Corn,  Canned   17 

Corn  Meal  Gems 63 

Corn  Oysters 19 

Corn  Soup,  Cream  of 29 

Cottage  Cheese 105 

Course  Luncheon 138 

Crabs    132 

Crabapples — Sweet  Pickled 99 

Crackers  and   Cheese 29 

Cranberry  Jelly 167 

Cranberry  MufRns    63 

Cranberry  Sauce   167 

Cream  Cakes    69 

Cream  Cheese  Sandwiches 77 

Cream  Filling    34 

Cream  Puffs   34 

Cream  Sponge  Cake I59 

Cream  Toast    21 

Cream  Tomato   Sauce    125 

Cream  of  Vegetable  Soups.   Celery,  Corn, 

Pea,  Potato,  Tomato '  29 

CreaTOe4  O^ef^erg ,,,,.,,,  433 


Creamed  Potatoes 51 

Croquettes,  Preparation    123 

Croustades  of  Bread 21 

Croutons    27 

Custards,  Baked   103 

Custard  Bread  Pudding 103 

Custard  Sauce  35 

Cuts  of  Beef 116 

Definition  of  Meat 110 

Dietary  Studies ,.  .  174-175-177 

Different  Ways  of  Preparing  Vegetables .   19 

Digestion 148 

Processes,  Organs   148 

Dinner — Directions    43 

Directions  for  Canning  Vegetables 17 

Directions    for   Canning   and   Preserving 

Fruit    98 

Directions  for  Freezing 108 

Directions  for  Soup-Making 112 

Dough    60 

Doughnuts  I 149 

Doughnuts  II 149 

Drawn  Butter  Sauce 129 

Dried  Fruits — General  Rules  for  Cooking.166 

Drop  Batter 60 

Drying  Foods 16 

Dry  Toast 21 

Dumplings  for  Stews 71 

Dusting 11 

Eggs.     Composition  and  Experiments.  .  .100 

Eggs,  Cooked  101 

Eggs  a  la  Goldcnrod 21 

Eggs,  Hard  and  Soft  Cooked 101 

Egg  Nogg 173 

Eggs,  Poached  101 

Egg  Sandwich   77 

Egg  Sauce 129 

Eggs,  Scalloped   31 

Eggs,  Scrambled 10] 

Eggs,  Stuffed   101 

Elimination 148 

Entire  Wheat  Bread    ' 155 

Entire  Wlieat  Pudding    151 

Equivalents    13 

Fairy  Gingerbread    67 

Fat  as  a  Frying  Medium 149 

Fats  and  Oils.     Sources,  Uses,  Digestion, 

Etc 146 

Fish.    Methods  of  Cooking  and  Cleaning.  126 

Fish  Baked 127 

Fish  Balls 131 

Fish,  Boiled    127 

Fish,  Broiled    127 

Fish,  Composition  of 126 

Fish  Croquettes 131 

Fish,  Fried   137 

Fish  Sauces  and  Stuffings 129 

Fish,  Sauted 137 

Fish  Stuffing   139 

Fish,  Turban  of 131 

Floating  Island 55 

Flour  Mixtures  60 

Food 

Definition,  Principles    36-68 


INDEX 


Food  Value  of  Nuts 160 

Freezing    108 

French  Cream 57 

French  Fried  Potatoes 123 

French  Salad  Dressing 168 

Fresh  Eggs 102 

Fried  Fish 127 

Fried  Oysters 31 

Frozen  JFruit  Juice  Mixtures 165 

Frozen  Milk  and  Cream  Mixtures 109 

Fruits    98 

Fruit  Dumplings   73 

Fruit  Ice   165 

Fruit  Salad    169 

"  Fruit  Salad  Dressing 168 

Fruit  Sandwiches    77 

Fruit  Tapioca  and  Sago  Pudding 37 

Frying    122-123 

Game   110 

Gelatine 134 

Gelatine  Desserts   137 

General     Directions     for     Batters     and 

Doughs    60 

General    Directions    for    Making    Bread 

that  Requires  No  Kneading 74 

General  Directions  for  Serving  Breakfast  41 
General  Rules  for  Cooking  Vegetables.  . .    15 

German  Toast   25 

Gingerbread    : 67 

Graham  Bread 75 

Graham  Muffins 63 

Grape  Frappe 165 

Grape  Sauce   35 

Gravy    119 

Green  Corn,  Boiled   13 

Green  Peas,  Boiled 15 

Griddle  Cakes    61 

Ham  and  Egg  Sandwich 77 

Hamburg  Steak 115 

Hard  Cooked  Eggs , lOl 

Hard  Sauce    151 

Hollandaise  Sauce  I   129 

Hollandaise  Sauce  II 129 

Horseradish  Sauce    129 

Hot  Meat  Sandwiches 23 

Hot-Water  Gingerbread 67 

How  to  Break  an  Egg 102 

How  to  Build  a  Fire 30 

How  to  Combine  Ingredients  13 

How  to  Make  Ice  Cream   or  Ices  With- 
out a  Freezer 108 

How  to  Preserve  Eggs 102 

Hunter's  Pudding  151 

Ice  Cream 109 

Imperial  Sticks 29 

Individual  Recipes  for  First  Semester. 44-45 
Individual  Recipes  for  Second  Seniester.80-81 
Individual     Recipes     for    Third     Semes- 
ter    140-141 

Individual    Recipes    for    Fourth    Semes- 
ter  .182-183 

Invalid  Cookery 172-173 

Kinds  of  Meat ,,..,., , iio 


Jama    166 

Jams — General  Rules 166 

Jellies    166 

Jelly  Making — General  Rules 166 

Junket 105 

Lamb   110 

Laying  the  Table 40 

Lemon  Ice 165 

Lemon  Jelly   135 

Lemon  Pie  I  and  II 163 

Lemon  Pudding   137 

Lemon  Sauce   , 25 

Lemon  Syrup   61 

Lettuce  Sandwiches    77 

Lima  Beans — Boiled  15 

Liquids 173 

Liver  and  Bacon 147 

Lobsters    132 

Luncheon  Prepared  from  Left-Overs ....   43 

Macaroni  59 

Macaroni,  Boiled   59 

Macaroni  Salad   59 

Macaroni  With  Cheese    59 

Macaroni  With  Tomato  Sauce 59 

Macaroni  With  White  Sauce 59 

Maitre  de  Hotel  Butter 115 

Mashed  Potatoes 51 

Mayonnaise  Dressing 168 

Meat    110 

Meat  Experiments  112-114 

Meat  Jellies   134 

Meat  Loaf  Mixtures    Ill 

Meat  Loaf    Ill 

Meat,  Methods  of  Cooking 

110-112-114-117-119 

Meat  Salad 169 

Meat  Sandwich    . 77 

Meat  Sauces 125 

Measuring   13 

Menus    43-79-139-178-179 

Meringue 163 

Methods  of  Cooking  and  Cleaning  Fish.  .126 

Methods  of  Cooking  Meat '. 

110-112-114-117-119 

Milk 104 

Milk  Albumen   173 

Milk,  Composition 104 

Milk  Products    104 

Milk  Sherbet   109 

'Milk  Toast   21 

Mint  Sauce • 125 

Muffins — Plain,  Graham,  Oatmeal,  Cran- 
berry        63 

Mutton    110 

Norwegian  Prune  Pudding 37 

Nut  Cake,  Loaf 69 

Nut  Ice  Cream    109 

Nutrients    172 

Oatmeal  Gruel   173 

Oatmeal  Muffins    63 

Oatmeal  Mush  With  Apples 53 

Object  of  Cooking  Meat 114 

Oils 146 

Omelets  ,,,,,,.,,, ,....,•,,-,(,,  33 


INDEX 


Omelet,  Cereal 53 

Omelet,  Oyster    33 

Omelet,  Plain   S3 

Omelet,  With  Meat  and  Vegetables 33 

Onions,  Boiled 15 

Orange  Albumen    .- 173 

Orange  Cake    157 

Orange  Charlotte    137 

Orange  Filling    156 

Orange  Frosting    156 

Orange  Ice    165 

Orange  Jelly    135 

Orange  Marmalade    167 

Organs  of  Digestion 148 

Oven  Tests   68 

Oysters 132-133 

Oysters,  Creamed 133 

Oysters,  Fried   31 

Ovster  Omelet 33 

Oysters  on  the  Half  Shell 133 

Oysters,  Scalloped 31 

Oyster  Stew    133 

Pan-broiled  Chops 115 

Parker  House  Rolls 153 

Parsnips,  Boiled   15 

Pasteurized  Milk    105 

Pastry    162 

Peach  Canapes 25 

Peaches,  Canned   99 

"  Peach  Tapioca 37 

Pears,  Canned    99 

Pears,  Sweet  Pickled 99 

Peas,  Canned   17 

Peas  and  Carrots   19 

Pea  Soup    27 

Pea  Soup,  Cream  of 29 

Peanut  Candy 57 

Peanut  Cookies    161 

Pettijohn's  Breakfast  Food 53 

Pickling 166 

Pineapple  Charlotte 137 

Pineapple  Sherbet 165 

Pinoche   57 

Pin  Wheel  Biscuit .\  .  .   71 

Plain  Cake  157 

Plain  Frosting 150 

Plain  Muffins 63 

Plums,  Canned 99 

Plum  Pudding  Without  Eggs 151 

Plums,  Sweet  Pickled 99 

Poached   Eggs    101 

Popovers    33 

Potatoes    51 

Potatoes,  Baked    51 

Potatoes,  Boiled    51 

Potatoes,  Creamed    51 

Potato   Croquettes    123 

Potatoes,  French  Fried 123 

Potatoes,  Mashed   51 

Potato  Nests   Ill 

Potato  Puffs    51 

Potatoes,  Riced   51 

Potato  Salad    39 

Potato  Soup,  Cream  of 29 

Pot  Roast 113 


Poultry.    How  to  Dress,  Clean,  Stuff  and 

Truss  120 

Pour  Batter  60 

Preservation  of  Eggs 102 

Preserved    Fruits.      Blackberries,    Rasp- 
berries, Strawt)erries    99 

Preserving  Fruits    98 

Preserving  With  Sugar 98 

Practice  Test  Lesson 43-79 

Proteins 

.    100-102-104-106-110-112-117-119-120-126 

Protein  Sparcrs — Gelatine 134 

Prune  Pudding    . 37 

Prunes,  Stewed   167 

Prune  Whip   35 

Pudding  a  la  MaceJoine 135 

Purees 29 

Quick  Biscuits   71 

Quick  Cake 69 

Raspberry  Charlotte     137 

Raspberry  Jolly 135 

Raspberries,  Preserved *  .   99 

Recipes  for  Left-Overs  of  Meal 23 

Rennet  Custard 105 

Rhubarb  Pie  . 163 

Rice 54-55 

Rice,  Boiled   55 

Rice  Croquettes    123 

Riced  Potatoes    51 

Rice  Steamed  in  Water .  . ..   55 

Rice  With  Apples  or  Pineapples 55 

Rice  Water 173 

Rich  Cookies    161 

Rich   Corn   Cake 6.5 

Roast  Beef  Sandwich,  Hot 23 

Roasting   119 

Rolled  Flank  of  Beef 117 

Rolled  Oats  Bread 75 

Rolls,  Parker  House,  Sw^el 153 

Russian  Salad    169 

Rye  Bread   ■. 155 

Sago  Pudding   35 

Salads     168-169 

Salad  Dressing  Cooked •. .    39 

Salmon  Loaf    131 

Salmon  Salad 39 

Salmon  Sandwiches    77 

Salting 16 

Sandwiches 77 

Sandwiches — General  Directions    76 

Sandwiches,  Clubhouse    23 

Sandwiches,  Cream  Cheese 77 

Sandwiches,  Egg 77 

Sandwiches,  Fruit   77 

Sandwiches,  Ham  and  Egg 77 

Sandwiches,  Lettuce   77 

Sandwiches,  Salmon   77 

Sandwiches,  Sliced  Meat 77 

Sanitary  Housekeeping 9-10 

Sauces.     General  Rules  for  Making 125 

Sauces,  Fish 129 

Sauces,  Meat   125 

Sauted  Fish    127 

Scalloped  Dishes  31 

Scalloped  Apples 31 


INDEX 


Scalloped  Eggs 31 

Scalloped  Oysters  31 

Scalloped  Tomatoes   31 

Scrambled  Eggs 101 

Sea  Foam   57 

Selection  of  Meat 110 

Semi-Solids  172 

Shell  Fish 132 

Short  Cake  I ' 73 

Short  Cake  II   73 

Shredded  Cabbage  '. 39 

Shrimps   132 

Simple  Dinner  139 

Sink   22 

Sliced  Meat  Sandwiches 77 

Smoking    16 

Snow  Pudding 135 

Soft  Cooked  Eggs 101 

Soft  Diet    172 

Soft  Dough 60 

Solids   172 

Soups  27 

Sour  Cream  Corn  Cake 65 

Sour  Cream  Gingerbread 67 

Sour  Milk  Cheese    105 

Sour  Milk  Corn  Cake    65 

Sour  Milk  Doughnuts    149 

Sour  Milk  Gingerbread   67 

Sour  Milk  Griddle  Cakes    61 

Spaghetti    ; 59 

Spanish  Cream 137 

Spanish  Fritters   19 

Spinach,  Boiled   15 

Sponge   Cake    159 

Starch    50 

Steak   115 

Steamed  Bread 151 

Steamed  Mixtures 150 

Steamed  Rice 55 

Steaming    150 

Sterilization    17 

Stewed  Apricots   167 

Stewed  Prunes    167 

Stewing.     General  Directions  for 113 

Stiff  Dough    60 

Stoves 28 

Strawberry  Charlotte 137 

Strawberry  Ice  Cream  109 

Strawberry  Preserves    99 

Strawberry  Tapioca 37 

String  Beans,  Boiled    15 

String  Beans,  Canned 17 

Stuffed  Eggs    101 

Stuffed  Tomatoes   19 

Stuffing   117 

Stuffing  I,  n  (Chestnut),  III,  IV,  V.  .  .-.121 

Stuffing,  Fish 129 

Succotash    19 

Sugar  56 

Sugar  Cookies  1 161 

Sugar  Cookies  II 161 

Sunshine  Cake,  Small 159 

Sweeping 10 

Sweet  Pickled  Peaches 99 

Sweet  Rolls   153 

Sweet  Water  Melon  Pickles 99 


Table  Showing  Composition  of  Cereals . .  52 
Table  Showing  Composition  of  Meat ....  124 

Taffy    57 

Tapioca  Cream  Pudding 35 

Tea     170 

Tea  Cakes    71 

Tea,  to  Make 171 

Ten  Cents  Will  Purchase 136 

Tests  for  Temperature  of  Oven 68 

Thick  Sauce   123 

Thick  White  Sauce 125 

Thin  White  Sauce 21 

Time-Table     for     Baking     Batters     and 

Doughs    66 

Time-Table  for  Boiling  Meat  and  Fish .  .  124 

Time-Table  for  Broiling 115 

Time-Table  for  Canning  Vegetables 17 

Time-Table    for    Cooking   Vegetables    in 

Water    15 

Time-Table  for  Roasting 119 

Toast   21 

Toast,  Cream  21 

Toast,  Dry   21 

Toast,  German 25 

Toast,  Milk    21 

Toast,  Water 173 

Tomato  Cream   Sauce   125 

Tomato  Salad    169 

Tomato  Sauce  23-111-125 

Tomatoes,  Scalloped 31 

Tomato  Soup   27 

Tomato  Soup,  Cream  of 29 

Tomatoes  Stuffed   19 

To  Remove  Cakes  from  Pan 68 

To  Separate  the  Yolk  from  the  White.  .102 

Turban  of  Fish   131 

Turnips,  Boiled   15 

Typical  Food 100 

Uniform,  Description  of 8 

Uses  for  Stale  Bread 21-23-25 

Vanilla  Cookies    161 

Vanilla  Ice  Cream  I 109 

Vanilla  Ice  Cream  II  109 

Veal   110 

Veal  Birds    117 

Veal  Croquettes 123 

Veal  Cutlets,  Breaded 123 

Vegetables.   General  Directions  for  Cook- 
ing   .  .  .  , 15 

Vegetables.    Directions  for  Canning 17 

Vegetable  Oyster  Stew 133 

Vegetable  Soup 27 

Vermicelli 59 

Virginia  Pone   65 

Waffles 61 

Waldorf  Salad 169 

Washing  Dishes 12 

"Water.     Composition,  Uses 14 

Water  as  a  Cleaning  Agent 18-20 

Water   as    a   Means,   of    Carrying   Away 

Waste  Matter    22 

Water  as  a  Sterilizing  Medium 16 

Water  Carriage  System — Plumbing 22 

Water  Lily  Salad 169 

Water  Toast   21 


INDEX 


Welsh  Rabbit    107 

Wheat.    Composition 58 

Wheatena  With  Fruit 53 

White  Bread 155 

White  Cake    157 

White  Custard 103 

White  Mountain   Cream 156 

White  Sauce 125 

Whipped  Cream   34-105 

V/hole  Wheat  Bread  I 75 


Whole  Wheat  Bread  11 75 

Whole  Wheat  Griddle  Cakes 61 

Why  Eggs  Spoil 102 

Yeast.     Experiments   ' 72 

Yeast  and  Its  Action 154 

Yeast  Muffins 75 

Yellow  Custard 103 

Yellow  Sauce  151 


For  All  Industrial  Subjects 


Text-Books 
^"^     )         and  Courses 

We  Furnish  \    -p^ 

Equipment 

Supplies 


Catalogs  and  Other  Information  Sent  Upon  Request 


Industrial  Book  &  Equipment  Co. 

Indianapolis,  Indiana 


Everything  for  Industrial  Work 


